रजिस्ट्री सं०110222 


REGISTERED No. D . 


E 


भारतको राजपत्र 
The Gazette of Jadia 


प्राधिकार से प्रकाशित 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


सं० 41 
No. 41) 


नई दिल्ली, शनिवार, अक्तूबर 12 , 1968/ प्राश्विन 20, 1890 
NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 12 , 1968 /ASVINA 20, 1890 


इस भाग में भिन्न पृष्ठ संख्या दी जाती है जिससे कि यह अलग संकलन के रूप में रखा जा सके । 
Soparato paging is dven to this part in order that it may bo fled 

as a separate compilation . 


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - 


-- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


मोतिय 
NOTICE 


नीचे लिनो भारत का प्रसाधारण राजपत्र 18 अगस्त , 1968 तक प्रकाशित किये गये : 

The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upt to the 18th Sep 
tember , 1968 : 


No, and Date 


Issued by 


Issue 

No. 


Subject 


322 S . 0 . 3276 , dated roth Sep - 

tember, 1968 , 


Ministry of Home Affairs 


Nomination of Shrimati Lhin 

gianeng to the Legislative 
Assembly of Manipur . 


गृह मंत्रालय 


एस०प्रो० 3277 , दिनांक 
10 सितम्बर , 1968 


मणिपुर विधान सभा के लिये श्रीमति 
लिहंगानेंग को मनोनीत फरना । 


323 


S. O . 3278, dated roth Sep - 

tember , 1968 . 


Ministry of Industrial 
Development and Com - 
pany Affairs , 


Extending the tenure of 8. 0 . 

1718 , dated 11th July , 1960 
upto 31st October , 1968. 


324 S . 0 . 3279, dated 11th Scp - Ministry of Commerce. 

. tember , 1968 . 


Amendments to the notifice 

tion No . S . O . 3216 , dated 

7th September, 1967 . 
Corrigendum to S . 0 . 3215 , 
dated 7th September, 1967 . 


Do . 


S . O . 3280 , dated IIth Sep 

tember , 1968 . 


. 


( 46II ) 


4612 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12 , 1968 / ASVINA 20, 1890 [PART II — 


Issue 


No, and Date 


IAgued by 


Subject 


No. 


325 S . O . 3281, dated 11th Sop - Ministry of Food , Agri - Amendment in the notifica 
tember, 1968, 

culture , Cornmunity tion No. S . 0 , 3138 , dated 
Development and Co - 6th September , 1968 . 
operation . 


326 S . O . 3282 , dated 11th Sep - Ministry of Home Affairs. Extending the powers and 
tember , 1968 , 

jurisdiction of the members 
of the Delhi Special Police 
Establishment to the whole 

of the State of Nagaland . 
327 S . O , 3283 , dated 11th Sep - Central Board of Direc - Substitution by the Income 
tember , 1968 . 

tors . 

tax ( Second Amendment) 
Rules, 1968 . 


328 S . O . 3284 , dated 12th Sep - Ministry of Commerce . Amendment in the nosilication 
teinber , 1968, 

No, S . O , 195 , dated 1711 

January, 1968 . 
329 S . O . 3285 , dated 13th Sep - Ministry of Home Affairs. Prohibitirg Strikes in tíc 
tember , 1968 . 

essential services mentioned 
thercin . 


S . O . 3286 , dated 13th Sep 

tember , 1968 . 


Declaring the supply of 

electrical energy to the pub 
liç by the State Govern 
mont , etc. to be an essential 
service. 


S . O . 3287 , dated 13th Sep 

tember , 1968, 


Prohibiting strikes in any ser 
vicc connected with the 
supply of electrical energy 
to the public by the State 
Government ctc . 


330 S . O . 3288, dated 13th Sep - Ministry of Law 

Bye - election to the Council of 
tember , 1968, 

Slates by the elected mem 
bers of the Gujarat Legisla 

tive Assembly , 
331 S . O . 3289 , dated 14th Sep - Ministry of Finance Amendment in the notificution 
tember , 1968, 

No. $ . O . 3302 , dated 14th 

September, 1967. 
332 S. O . 3290 , dated 14th Sep - Ministry of Food , Delegation of powers under 
tember, 1968 . 

Agriculture, Commu the Essential Commodities 
nity Development and Act, 1955 in relation to 
Cooperation . 

prices, stocks and move 
ments of cattle fodder of any 
of the varieties specificd in 
the schedule therein to the 
State Government in the 
whole State of Rajasthan . 


333 S . O . 3291, dated 14th Sep - Ministry of Information Approval of the films as spcci 
tember , 1968. and Broadcasting 

fied therein , 


334 S . O . 3292 , dated 16th Sep - Ministry of Labour, Em - Award of Shri P . C . Rai, Arbi 
tember, 1968 . 

ployment and Rehabili trator in thic industrial dis 
tation , 

pute betweçn the employers 
in relation to the Banki Col 
licry of Messrs , N . C . D . C . 
Ltd ., P . O . Banki Mogra 
District Bilaspur and their 
workman , 


- 


- - 


Sec. 3 (1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12 , 1968 /ASVINA 20 , 1890 


4613 


Issue 
No. 


No. and Date 


Issued by 


Subject 


335 S . 0 . 3383, dated 17th Scp - Ministry of Home Affairs Declaring (1) the supply of 
tcober , 1968 . 

Warcr and (ii) conservancy 
and sewage disposal to be 

an essential servicc . 
$ . 0 . 3384 , dated 17th Sep 

Do . 

Prohibitir & strikcs connected 
tember , 1968 . 

wiili (i) the supply of Water 
and (ii) conservancy and 
sewage disposalin the Union 

Territory of Delhi. 
336 S . O . 3385, dated 17th Sep - Ministry of Labour , Em Constitution of a National 
tember , 1968 , 

ployment and Rehabi - Tribural at Calcuita for tlic 
litation . 

cmployers and workmen in 
the newspaper cstablish 
ments , 


337 S . O . 3386 , dated 18th Sep - Ministry of Commerce 

tember, 1968 . 


Amendmerts to the rotifica 
tion No. S . O . 3208 , dated 
7th September , 1967. 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - -- - - 
ऊपर लिखे असाधारण राजपत्रों की प्रतियां प्रकाशन प्रबन्धक , सिविल लाइन्स , दिल्ली के नाम 
मांग पत्र भेजने पर भेज दी जायेंगी । मांगपत्र प्रबन्धक के पास इन राजपनों के जारी होने की 
तारीख स 10 दिन के भीतर पहुंच जाने चाहिएं । 

Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines , Delhi, Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
thesc Gazettes . 


* TT II — 07 3 3990 ( ii ) 

PART II — Section 3 - Sub -section (ii) 
(T& TT TETT AT SYFT ) # 178 TTTATT Fee maat ott ( rig 747 mit etwa # T ) 

केन्द्रीय प्राधिकरणों द्वारा जारी किए गए विधिक प्रावेश और अधिसूचनाएं । 
Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern 

ment of India ( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central 
Authorities ( other than the Administration of Union Territories ) . 


ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 

New Delhi, the 29th August 1968 
S . O . 3529 . — In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951 , the Election Commission hereby publishes the order pronounced on the 31st July , 
1968 , by the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir at Srinagar , in Election Petition No . 3 
of 1967. 
HIGH COURT OF JAMMU AND KASHMIR , SRINAGAR 

PRESENT 
The Hon ble Mr. Justice J. N . Bhat. 

ELECTION PETITION No. 3 OF 1967 


Sbri Ali Mohamad Tariq - Petitioner 


Bakshi Ghulam Mohamad and Ors. Respondent. 


4614 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12 , 1968 /ASVINA 20 , 1890 [Part II 

- - = = 

- - - - - - - 

-- 

- - 
ELECTION PETITION 
Mr. H . N . Dhar . 
M / s. T . R . Bhasin and P . L . Handoo . 

This election petition challenges the election of respondent No. 1 to the Srinagar 
Parliamentary Constituency . A further prayer is made that the petitioner be declared 
elected from this Constituency . In the 1967 general elections the petitioner and the 
respondents stood for election to the Srinagar Parliamentary Constituency . The scrutiny 
of the nomination papers was conducted on 21st January, 1967 by the Returning Officer , 
Deputy Commissioner, Srinagar , accepting tho nomination papers of the parties . The 
petitioner was a candidate sponsored by the J & K Pradesh Congress respondent No. 1 
way sponsored by the All J. & K . National Conference party and respondent No. 3 Shri 
Triloki Nath Mattu was a Bhartiya Jan Sangh candidate and respondent No. 2 stood as 
an independent candidate . A poll was held on 21st February , 1967. After counting on 
28th February, 1967 the respondent No. I was declared clected and the other candidates 
l.e . the petitioner and the other respondents 2 and 3 had lost the election . In this election 
petition , the election of the respondent No. 1 is challenged on various grounds as contained 
in the original petition dated 14th April , 1967. They are bricfly put as under : 


That the respondent No. 1 ( who shall be referred as the respondent in this judgment ; 
because tho other respondents did not at all take any interest in this petition ) appointed 
Poer Bahu -ud - Din S / o Peer Habib Ullah Shah R / o Khajpora Naushera , Srinagar, an em 
ployee of the Police Force of Jammu and Kashmir Stato us polling agent at Saura who 
canvassed for his election and influenced the voters ; that the respondent appointed Shri 
Ghulam Rasool Dar S / o Ghulam Mohd Dar R / o Kokarbagh Zonimar, Srinagar , a Govern 
ment employee in the Education Department of the State as his polling agent at Gillikadal 
Polling Station , who exercised his influence over the voters to secure votes for the res 
pondent; that the respondent paid huge amounts as illegal gratification and bribes to the 
voters and some of the instances of such payments are as under : 
( a ) ho paid a huge amount to Shri Miraj- ud -Din Baba S / o Shri Ghulan Mohd 

Baba R / o Mian Shah Sahib the Majawair of Ziarat Mian Shah Sahib , Ralna 
wari, on 13th February , 1967, for distributing amongst the muslim voters 

residing in that area for purchasing their votes; 
( b ) he paid in the first week of February , 1967 huge amounts to Moulvi Assad 

Too Gashroo S / o Ahad Joo Gashroo and Abdul Khaliq Moulvi S / o Mohd . 
Sadiq Moulvi R / o Begyar, Ghat Jogilankar Raingwari, Srinagar, the office 

hcarers of Masjid Sharif Begyar, Rainawari; 
( c ) that the respondent appealed to his voters in the name of religion for voting 

in his favour and represented to them that the Congress was an anti-muslim 
organization and vote in his favour would be a vote in the nanie of Islam 
and Hazarat Pir Dastgir Sahib and vote for the Congre89 candidate would 

be a vote for the enemies of Islam ; 
( d ) that Muslim yoters were approached in the name of religion by the respon 

dent personally, through bis election agent and other agents and canvassors 

within his knowledge and with his consent; 
( e ) that the respondent induced tho religious heads of Shias, Aga Sahib of 

Badgam in particular to issuc directions and Fatwa among his community 
people for voting in his favour, and by appealing to their religious senti 

ments , calling the congress candidate a " Yazeed " ; 
(f ) that religious heads of several Muslim mosques, Mujawirs and Managers were 

persuaded by the respondent to deliver speeches in mosques and appeal to 
the voters to vote in favour of the respondent and against the Congress 

candidate ; 
( g ) that these peoplo campaigned regularly at the instance of the respondent. ble 

Agents and canvassors within his knowledgo and with his consent and 
threatened the voters with Divine displeasure if they voted against tho 

respondent; 
( h ) that the respondent spent more than a lac of Kupeos for bribing the voters, 

In private meetings and public speeches the Congress candidates were 
described as enemies of Islam . Religious threats were held out to tho 

voters ; 
( 1) that all these activities of the respondent and his supporters influenced the 

voters in favour of the respondent. These corrupt practices rendered tho 
election of the respondent void . That the petitioner having socured next 
highest number of votes in the poll , sought the declaration that the election 


Sec . 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12 , 1968 / ASVINA 20 , 1890 


4615 


of the respondent was void and the petitioner should be declared 29 elected 

to this Constituency . 
The respondcot No. 1 appeared on 1st June, 1967 and the respondents 2 and 3 appeared 
on i0th May, 1967. But both the respondents 2 and 3 remained absent 011 1st June, 
1967 and exparle proceedings were taken against them . Respondent No. 1 field his 
written statement on Sth July , 1967 in which he denied all the allegations contained in the 
petition . Moreover the respondent raised sonc legal pleas some of which may be 
nientioned as under : 

Ihat the clection pelition has not complicit with the provisions of Section 83 ( b ) and 
( c ) of the Representation of People Act : that the affidavit accompanying the election 
petition is not in accordance with the provis ons of Section 83 ( 1 ) ( c ) Proviso read with 
Rule 94 - A of the Conduct of Election Rules 1961 and as such is no affidavit in the cye 
of law . The allegations of corrupt practices cannot be enquired into because they were 
Vague, Jack in essential particulars and are indefinite . 

19 issucs were framed on 18th July , 1967 and the parties were directed to file their 
list of witnesses by 28th July , 1967. The respondent filed his list of witnesses but 
the petitioner did not file his list of witnesses for more than one hearing and ultimately 
he also filed his list of witnesses on 11th August, 1967. 

It was pointed out on behalf of the respondent that the whole petition was liable to 
dismissal as allegations contained therein were purcly of corrupt practices. These 
allegations lacked in particularity , definiteness , time, date , the number of persons paid 
or corrupted and the part played by each one of them . After hearing arguments of the 
learned counsel for the parties , I passed a detailed order on 2nd of December , 1967 . 
Out of the issues framed only issuc Nos . 7 pertaining to thc allegations contained in 
Paragraph No.. 9 ( 1 ) , issue No. 10 ( a ) being the subject matter of Paragraph 9 ( vi ) ( a ) , 
issuc No. 10 ( b ) which contained the matter of paragraph 9 ( vi ) ( b ) of the petition , and 
issue No . 12 comprising the substance of paragraph No. 9 ( vi) ( c ) were retained . The 
issues that remained read as follows: - - 
7 . Did Peer Bahaudin act as polling agent of respondent No. 1 at polling booths 

while he was in Government service and used his official influence to im 

prove the prospects of the election of respondent No . 1 O . P . P . 
10 . Did the respondent No . 1 pay huge aniounts to the following : 
( a ) Shri Miraj- u -Din Baba s / o Ghulam Mohamad Baba, r / o Mian Shah Sahib , the 

Mujawar of Ziarat Mian Shah Sahib , Kainawari, on the 13th February , 1967 

for distributing it among the Muslim voters for purchasing iheir votes ? O . P . P . 
( b ) Maulvi Asad Joo Gashroo s /o Ahad Joo Gasbroo and Abdul Khalik Moulvi 

s / o Mohammad Sadiq Moulvi, T / O Begyar, Jogilanker Raidawari, Srinagar . 
the President and Sccretary of the Managing Committee of Masjid Sharif 
Begyar, Rainawari, is gratiſlcation for voting in favour of respondent No. 1 
and for payment to the voters canvassed by them ? O . P . P . 


12 . Did the respondent No . 1 induce the religious heads of Shias , Aga Sahib of Badgam 
in particular to issue directions and Fatwa among his community peoplc to vote in favour 
of respondent No. 1 apd against the Congress candidate by appealing to their religious 
sentiments and did the Aga Sahib of Badgam and other Shia religious heads at the instance 
and persuation of respondent No . 1 circulate Fatwas amongst their community describing 
the Congress candidate including the petitioner 13 " Yazids" and appealing them in the 
name of religion to vote for respondent No. 1 ? O . P . P . 

The petitioner did not get his evidence for a nuinber of hearings. Tlio case was 
adjourned to the following dates for the evidence of thc petitioner : 10th January , 1968 , 
11th January , 1968 , 12th January , 1968 , 7th March , 1968, 8th March , 1968, 9th March , 
1968 . The witnesses belonged mostly to Kashmir Province and some of the witnesses 
were served for 8th of March , 1968 but none appeared as the costs deposited were not 
gufficient to cover their diet money and travelling expenses from Srinagar to Jainmu . 
The petitioner was therefore directed to deposit Rs. 32 per witness and the case was 
adjourned to 28th and 30th of March , 1968. The petitioner did not deposit the necessary 
expenses for thc witnesses. No witness was therefore present on 28th or 301h of March , 
1968 and the case was adjourned to 25th of April, 1968. Since necessary expenses were 
pot deposited , no witness was present on the 25th of April , 1968 and the case was 
adjourned to 16th , 17th and 18th of May , 1968 and the petitioner was directed to produce 
his witnesses himself ; although he was not entitled to any such concession because of 
constant default committed by him . My order dated 25th of April, 1968 is self -contained 
in this behalf. A sum of Rs. 200 was awarded as costs against the petitioʻlcr. This 
ended the course of petition in Jammu. After that, the court had to move to Srinagar 


SECRETA 


IAT 
118 


ENTRAL 


D - 10612 


1877 


4616 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12 , 1968 / ASVINA 20, 1890 (PART II--- 


- - - - - - - 


- 


= 


- - 


and the petitioner was directed to produce his evidence on 16th , 17th and 18th of May , 
1968 . Actually the evidence of the petitioner began from 16th of May , 1968 . 


The petitioner produced Munshi Mohi- ud -Din Salati, Mohamsiad Abdulla Shair , 
Ghulam Hassan Dar, Ghulam Rasul Shah , Abdul Aziz , Mohd . Yusuf Wadha , S . Karam 
Singh , Malik Ghulan Mohammad , Ali Mohd . Pant. Ghulam Hassan Jan, Pcer Abdul Ahad 
Shah , Mir Ghulam Mustaffa , Syed Abdul Majid , Mohammad Yusuf , Ghulam Mohd. Reshi, 
Habib Ullah Budhoo, Omkar Nath Trisal, Ghulam Mohammad Misger, Ghulam Hassan 
Khan , and Ghulam Ahmed Baba . The petitioner appeared as his own witness also . 


The respondont appeared as his own witness, and further produced R . N . Kaul , 
Advocate , Syed Ali Salvi, Mohammad Sultan Bhat, Janki Nath , Ghulam Mohammad Bhat 
and Aga Sabib of Badgam , who was exumined on Commission . 


I accd not reproduce in detail the evidence produced by the parties. The statements. 
relevant to each issue will be discussed at their proper place . But before I take up my 
particular issuc, I have to make some gencral observations in this case . 


The election petition is based mainly on some corrupt practices alleged to have been 
committed by or on behalf of the respondent. The law is very well settlod that the 
standard of proof required in such cases is that of a criminal case . Tho allegations must 
be strictly proved as ingredients of an offence . If the proof fulls short, the election of 
the returned candidate cannot bc disturbed . The law presumes that a candidate, who 
has fought an election and won it should not be unseated or disturbed unless the allegations 
of misconduct or corrupt practices as they are called , are proved beyond any shadow of 
doubt. That is the first principle I have to keep in mind while disposing of this petition , 
With this major premise let us first give some general comments about the case of the 
petitioner . I have used the word petitioner because all the issues of the alleged corrupt 
practices had to be proved by the petitioner. At one time it was argued and rather 
vchomçntly by the learned counsel for the respondent that the affidavit in support of the 
corrupt practices as required under Section 83 ( b ) and 83 ( c ) of the Representation of 
People Act, was not in accordance with law . The alſidavit of the petitioner is Ex P . W . 
21 / 1) - 1. At the end of the affidavit it is stated : 
" On solemn affirmation I state that the statements and facts contained in the 

petition are true and without any exaggeration or suppression oť the same. 
On solemn afirmation I state that the above stateinent is correct." 
At the end of the petition , the verification reads as under : 
" I Ali Mohammad Tariq s / o Haji Sheikh Ghulam Qadir , C / o Guest House No . 5 , 

Sonawarbagh , Srinagar, the petitioner today the 14th of April, 1967 , at 
Jainu , do solemnly affirm that the contents of this petition from Paras 1 

to 10 are true to my knowledge and belief." 
It did not specify the items of the petition , which the deponent-petitioner afllrined to be 
true to his knowledge and which of the items were true to his belief. When this point 
was contested before me in December 1967, the learned counsel for the petitioner Elrgued 
that the affidavit should be construed as stating that all the contents of the affidavit and 
election petition were true to knowledge of the petitioner. I had further held this affidavit 
strictly speaking is not in accordance with law on the subject and in the prescribed form 
becausc cyen if the argument of Mr. Dhar were taken as correct, the affidavit should 
have said that the contents of anyone or all the paras of the petition were true to the 
knowledge or hclief of the petitioner , or which of them was true to his knowledge and 
which of them was true to his beliel. If a very strict view of the wholc thing is taken , 
the rupt Tictices allcgeri in the petition can all be ignored and cannot be the subject 
matter of any issue . "That practically finishics the election pctition . But I take a liberal 
vicw in favour of the petition in red with the argument of Mr. Dhar, counsel for 
the petioner , that the petitioner intended to stote that the allegations of the petition werc 
true to his personal knowledge . " I therefore retained some of the allegations of the 
petition were true to his personal linowledge " . I therefore retained some of the allegations 
of the petition which shall be discussex ! hereinafter . So from this argument of ihe learned 
counsel for the petitions and the stand taken on behalf of the petitioner , one has to 
scrutinize this case on the basis that the allegations of corrupt practice as given in the 
petition are truo to the knowledge of the petitioner . But when the petitioner appeared 
as his own witness, he made a different statement at one place he stated " I have no 
personal knowledge of any malpractices committed by the respondent No. 1 at Rainawari 
but on my visits to that place , I was told that he has paid some money to some mosque 
as well as to some other persons " . Similarly about religious propaganda carried on by 
and on behalf of the respondent, he states that it was brought to his notice that this. 
propaganda was carried on . 


Sec . 3 (ü )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 12, 1968 /ASVINA 20 , 1890 


4617 


The allegations mentioned in issues , which now stand for determination are vague and 
Jack in definiteness and particularity ; for instanco about issue No. 10 ( a ) and ( b ) tho 
Allegations made were that huge amounts were paid to Miraj- u -Din and Asad Joo Gashroo 
and others . Similarly the subject-matter of issue No . 12 lacks particularity because no 
place , time or date is mentioned . The name of only Aga Sabib of Badgam is mentioned 
and not of other Shia religious leaders . The evidence produced is not in conformity with 
the allegations of the petition or the issues framed . This aspect of the case will be 
discussed at its proper place . 

Before discussion the various issues , I would like to make some remarks about the 
witnesses produced , which would indicate that they should not be relied upon , 

Munshi Mobi-ud - Din Salati, P . W . 1 is a candidatc who contested the eloction against 
the respondent from Safa - kadel Assembly Constituency , as a Congress candidate but lost. 
Mohammad Abdulla Shair, P . W . 2 also is a candidate of the Congress Party who contested 
elections for Zadibal Assembly Constituency but was defeated by the National Conference 
candidate . Ghulam Hassan Dar, P . W . 3 was the election agont on behalf of the Congress 
candidate for the Assembly Constituency Badgan . Ghulam Rasul Shah , P . W . Awas the 
Chief Election Agent of the petitioner for the Srinagar Parliamentary Constituency . Abdul 
Aziz , P . W . 5 was working for the Congress Party in the election campaign and was a 
member of the Election Sub - committee formed in Amirakudal Assembly Constituency for 
Shri C . M . Sadiq . Has got a Government plot allotted and a loan of Rs. 20 , 000 for the 
construction of his house . Mohd . Yusuf Wadha, P . W . 6 was the election agent for the 
Cangress Party in Habba Kadal Assembly Constituency . Sardar Karam Singh , P . W . 7 
is the Halqa President of the Congress Khojayarbal. This person was an employee of 
the State Bank of India , is under suspension for carelessness and in his words for passing 
wrong entries made by the despatcher without scrutiny . He has got a loan of Rs . 5 ,500 
from the Industrtes Department. Malik Ghulam Mohaniniad , P . W . 8 was the Chief 
Election Agent of the Congrois candidate from Zadibal Assembly Constituency. Ali 
Mohammad Pant, P . W . 9 has made an application for employment to the Arts Emporium , 
Ghulam Hassan Jan , P . W . 10 is the Congress President of Zadibal Halqa. The election 
office as well as Congress Halqa Coniinittee Office is housed in his building. Peer Abdul 
Ahad Shah , P . W . 11 had a chcquered carcer . Was a member of Sadiq Sahib s Election 
Subcommittee , Amir Kadal. Mir Ghulam Mustaffa , P . W . 12 was the election agent in 
Chadoora Assembly Constituency on behalf of the Congress candidato . He does not know 
whether his father or brother have got Rs. 30 , 000 from the Government as loan for 
brick -kiln . He is a District Secretary of the Rural District Congress Comorittec and his 
brother- in -law is the President of that Rural District Congress Committcc . Ghulam Mohd . 
Rashi, P . W . 15 is Block President of Congress at Ward No. 8 , Srinagar and has got an 
Industrial Loan of Rs. 3 , 000 from the Government. Habib Ullah Budhoo , P . W . 16 is 
the Block President of the Congress . Omkar Nath Trisal, p . w . 17 is a party worker , 
who was first in the National Conference , then in D .N . C . and has not joined the Congress 
Party . Ghulam Mohd . Misger , P . W . 18 is a Congress Block President for Ward No. 7 . 
Ghulam Hass20 Khan , P . W . 19 is Halqa President Congress ut Wantapora . 


After making these general observations let me start with the issues as they are . Issue 
No. 7 reads as under: 
" Did Peer Baba -u -Din act as Polling Agent of respondent No. 1 at polling booths 

while he was in Government Service and uscd his official influence to improve 
the prospects of the election of respondent No. 1 ? O . P . P ." 


The allcgatica of the petitioner in the petition was that this Peer Baba - u -Din was an 
cmployco of the State Government Police Force. He was the polling agent of the 
respondent at Saura Polling Station , where he canvasscd even on the day of roll and 
brought pressure on the voters to vote in favour of the respondent. In support of this 
allegation on this point, the petitioner has stated that " there was a polling booth at Saura . 
I do not remember the name of the polling agent of the respondent No. 1 at Saura Polling 
Station but he was an cmployee of the Police Department . . . . . . When I went to that 
polling station , I heard complaints against that polling agent to the effect that he was 
canvassing votes for the National Conference Party . I personally told the gentleman not 
indulge in such corrupt practicc " . Further he says " At the time of my visit to Saura 
one or two voters were in the polling booth at Saura . I cannot say whether I talked to 
the Presiding Officer including my polling agent. I do not remember the name of my 
polling agent at that station , I do not know who was the polling agent of the Assembly 
Congress candidate " . Mohammad Abdulla Shair, P . W . 2 who also stood for the Assembly 
election from the Zadibal Assembly Constituency on the Congress ticket but was defeated 
by the National Conference candidate states about this issue that Peer Baha -u - Din , an 
employce of the Police Department was the polling agent of the respondent. He worded 
as such on tho day of poll also . He cannot give the name of the polling agent of the 
petitioner nor of the Presiding Officer or Polling Oficer . He further states that he had 
Do complaint to make to the election authority about the conduct of Peer Baba- u -Din 


4618 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 12 , 1968 / ASVINA 20 , 1890 (PART II --- 


before 21st February , 1967. Ho does not know when Peer Baha -u -Din joined Government 
Service . Ghulam Rasul Shoh , P . W ., who was the petitioner s election agent, also stated 
that thiş Baba- u -Din who was an employee of the Special Police was influencing the voters 
as polling agent of the respondent . He does not remember the name of the polling agent 
of the petitioner at Saura nor does he know who was the Presiding Officer or Polling 
Officer at the station . No complaint was made by him to any of the Officers . Against 
this ovidence we have the ovidence of Syed Abdul Majid ( P . W . 13 ) , Senior Grade Lecturer , 
S . P . College , Srinagar , who was the Presiding Officer of this polling station No. 14 , Saura . 
According to this witness " Peer Baha -u -Din was one of the polling agents of tho Assembly 
candidate from that Constituency . Respondent had appointed one Ghulam Hassan Dar 
as his polling Agent but he did not present himself . No one worked as the polling agent 
of the respondent No. 1 . Baha -u - Din was the polling agent for the candidate of National 
Conference candidate for Assembly Constituency. . . . . . . the letter of authority given to 
Ghulam Hassan Dar by the respondent No. 1 is produced by me and is marked as P . W . 
13 / D - 1 " . This Presiding Officer further states that " I had no reason to complain any 
time during the day about the conduct of Pcer Baba- u -Din to the Returning Officer. Peer 
Baha - u -Din discharged his duties as a peaceful citizen as polling agent for the Assembly 
Constituency candidate . 151 votors came to poll to my polling station . No polling agent 
canvassed among the voters when they came to poll their votes" . The respondeat as his 
Own witness has denied that Poer Baha- u -Din was his polling agent or that he ever 
canvassed for him at any time muchless on the day of poll. He further stated that his 
polling agent at that station was Ghulam Hassan Dar whom he had appointed by 
means of an authority Ex . P . W . 13 / D - 1 . So from the statements of P .Ws. rebutted by 
his own witness Syed Abdul Majid , P . W . 13 and that of the respondent supported by 
the written document ( letter of authority of appointment of Ghulam Hassan Dar as polling 
agent of respondent at Saura Polling Station ) , the story that this Baha-u - Din actod as 
polling agent for the respondent and canvassed for him is not at all proved . It is further 
to be stated that no reliable evidence was produced to prove that this Peer Baba -u - Din 
was an employee of the Police Force of the State . The Superintendent of Police , Kashmir 
Armed Police and the Establishment Clerk of Kashmir Armed Police were cited as witnesses 
and these witnesses were summoned also but later thero werd not produced . So this 
issue is decided against the petitioner. Inguo No. 10 ( a ) and (b ) which read as followe: 

" Did the rospondent No. 1 pay bage amounts to the following : - 
( a ) Shri Miraj-u -Din Baba s / o Ghulam Mohammad Baba , r / o Mian Shah Sahib , 

the Mujawar of Ziarat Mian Shah Sahib Rainawari, on the 13th February , 

1967 for distributing it amongst tho Muslim voters for purchasing their votes ? 
(b ) Maulvi Agad Joo Gasbroo s / o Ahad Joo Gasbroo and Abdul Khalik Moulvi 

s / o Mohamed Sadiq Moulvi, r / o Begyar, Jogilanker, Rainawari, Srinagar , 
the President and the Secretary of the Managing Committee of Masjid Sharif 
Begyar Rainawiri as gratification for voting in favour of respondent No. 1 

and for payment to the voters canvassed by them ? O . P . P ." 
So far as the petitioner himself is concerned , he has no personal knowledge of any such 
payment having been made by the respondent to Miraj-u - Din Baba or Maulvi Asad Joo 
Gashroo and Abdul Khaliq . All that he says in this behalf is that " I have no personal 
knowledge of any malpractices committed by the respondent No. 1 at Raingwári tut on 
my visits to that place , I was told that he has paid some money to some mosque as well 
as to some other persons . Payment of money at such occasions by candidates would 
lead only to the inference that it was done with a view to secure the votes of such people 
10 favour of the candidato making payment " . Neither Miraf-u - Din nor Asad Joo Gashroo 
or Abdul Khaliq have been produced . According to Mr. Bhasin the learned counsel for 
the respondent, tho rule of best evidence would require that these people were produced 
Al witnesses. Apart from their non - production let us examine the other evidence produced 
in this behalf. It has been argued that the amounts alleged to have been paid are not 
specified nor are the time and placo specified in the petition. However the following 
witncşees depose about this issue. Mohammad Abdulla Shair, P . W . 2 states that he has 
no personal knowledge of any money having been paid by tho respondent to these persons 
for being distributed among voters. All that he states is that some voters told him that 
they had been offered and paid monoy by the National Conference workers. Mohd . 
Yusuf Wadha , P . W . 6 states that the respondent s workers distributed money among the 
voters to vote for him and respondent also gave money to various voters . Those persons 
were in Habba Kadal Assembly Constituency . This evidence is not with respect to this 
issue. Similarly Karam Singh states that some Ghulam Rasul told him that he had been 
paid Rs, 50 by the National Conference Party . This Ghulam Rasul is a resident of Kathi 
Darwaza . He has not been produced . Malik Ghulam Mohammad, P . W . 8 who was the 
olection agent of Mohammad Abdulla Shair in the Zadlbal Assembly Constituency states 
that he knows Miraj-ud -Din Baba who is one of the Mujawing of Ziarat Mian Shah Sahib 
and Abdul Khaliq and Agad Joo Gasbroo who are the Proşident and Secretary of Begyar 
mosque respectively . He is one of tho supervions of that mosque. This witness states 


Sec. 3 (1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12 , 1968 / ASVINA 20 , 1890 4619 

S u = = 

= " 
that Ali Mohd . Mir paid Rs. 51 from his pocket and Rs. 111 on behalf of the respondent 
to the mosque. This was paid during the clection days . This Ali Mohd . Mir paid various 
gums to other persons , whose names he does not disclose . This Ali Mohd . Mir was the 
agent of National Conference candidate and a covering candidate . Respondent came to 
the mosquc on 12th February , 1967 when this money was paid . He produced a receipt 
book also . This witnesses statement makes an interesting reading particularly about this 
receipt book . He states that " I got the reccipt book presented in the court by me yesterday 
from Abdul Khaliq when he came to settle 9ccounts of the Mosque. I cannot say who 
has initialled it as the Treasurer" . The receipt bears the signatures of Abdul Khaliq , who 
has not been produced . Further the witness stated " the money collected by the mosque 
is accounted for in their accounts. The accounts are with the Managing Committee . 
I do not know whether some receipts have been removed from this receipt book presented 
by me which starts from 181 number. The last two ones pertain to the respondent No. 1 
And Ali Mohd . Mir . I cannot say whether these were the last ones in this receipt book 
or not. Every receipt book is of fifty receipts " . So it is admitted that these receipts uc 
the last ones . Besides , they do not bear the signatures of the respondent or Ali Mohd . Mir. 
Further On the witness states " When I got it from the Secretary , I was checking the 
accounts . I cannot say how much collection had been made from 13th February to 21ht 
of February , 1967. There is no date given on receipt Nos 182 and 195 . Similarly there 
is no date given on receipt Nos. 189 to 194 . On receipt No. 196 , the date of collection 
appears to be 24th of September , 1961. Similarly the date on receipt Nos. 197 and 198 
appears to be 24th of September, 1961 and 4th of October, 1961 respectively . From 
receipt Nos. 206 to 211 the gentleman who had received the amounts is shown as 
Mohammad Sultan . The receipt Nos. from 212 to 226 pertain to the year 1962 and Abdul 
Khaliq is not the person who has received the donation as shown in the receipts. Receipt 
No, 227 is of 1965 and No. 228 is of 1966 . In receipt No. 227, Abdul Khaliq is the person 
receiving and in receipt No . 228. I cannot say who is the person who has received the 
donation . Receipt Nos. 229 and 230 pertain to the ycar 1967. The amounty received 
vide receipt Nos. 229 and 230 are shown to have been received as donation . I do not 
remember on checking the accounts how much money was with the Cashier of this mosque. 
I do not remember how much money had the office -bearers of the mosque spent in the 
year 1967. That must be in the account " . This witness s statement needs no comment 
because from his statement it appears that the whole story is a fabricated one and simply 
some loose sheets have been put together and different years and dates have been lumped 
together to give it the shape of some regular account. No account book has been produced . 
Ghulam Hassan Jan , P . W . 10 who is from Zadibal states that respondent came to Gasiyar 
for three consecutive days before election for distributing money . What money how much 
money is not at all stated. Mir Ghulam Mustaffa , P . W . 12 states that the respondent 
paid some money to two Majawairs at Chari- sharif . To some people he paid Rs, 5 and 
to some Rs. 10 . The respondent then threw some more moncy into the air for the people 
who were there. The same thing was done by the respondent at Pakhripora . Ghulam 
Ahmed Baba , P . W . 20 statcs that the respondent No. 1 came to Rainawari and went to 
the mosque and to the shrine of Mina Shah Sahib . He paid some money to one of 
members of the Managing Committee. Miraj-ud-Din Baba is his younger brother, he is 
a Mujawis of the mosque. Respondent paid about Rs. 300 to that gentleman in the name 
of Islam to procure yotes for his party . It Inay be stated here that the evidence of the 
majority of the witnesses is not with respect to the issue nor are the allegations made by 
the witnesses like Ghulam Ahmed Baba. Ghulam Hassan Khan /Mir Ghulam Mustaffa 
covered by any of the pleadings or issues in the case . 

Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad . respondent states that hc " I do not know the members 
of the Managing Committee of Ziarat Mian Shah Sahib Rainawari nor do I know Ghulam 
Mohd . Baba or his brother Mirai-u -Din . . . . . . I do not know whether there is a mosque 
at Begyar , there may be one" . He knows Asad Joo Gashroo but does not know Abdul 
Khulig . The respondent further states that " in 13th February , 1967 I did not visit the 
shrine of Mia Shah Sahib or any mosquc at Rainawari as suggest. This is also not 
correct, as suggested that I gave any money to any Maulvi or Mujavir of any mosque 
or shrine there in Rainawari" . His story is corroborated by his other witnesses particularly 
Janki Nath who has accompanied the respondent in his tour to Rainawari Assembly 
Constituency . 

From the above it can safely be said that this allegation of the petitioner is as frivolous 
as the allegation which was the subject-matter of the issue No. 7 and therefore I hold 
both these parta (a ) and (b ) of Tasue No. 10 as not proved . 
Then the only remaining issue is Issue No. 12, which reads as under : 
" Did the respondent No. 1 induce the religious heads of Shias , Aga Sahib of Badgam 

in particular, to issue directions and Fatwa among his community people 
to vote in favour of respondent No. 1 and against the Congress candidate 
by appealing to their religious sentiments and did Aga Sahib of Badgar and 
other Shia religious heads at the instance and persuation of respondent No. 1 


4620 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12 , 1968/ ASVINA 20 , 1990 (Part II 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - .. . = = . = : - . - * * 
circulate Fatwas amongst their community describing the Congress candidate 
including the petitioner is Yazids and appealing to them in the name of 
religion to vote for respondent No . 1 ? O . P . P . " 


The petitioner himself has no personal knowledge of any such propaganda having been 
made by the respondent. All that he states is that it was brought to our notice that there 
was a propaganda carried on on behalf of the respondont No. 1 that vote for the Congress 
candidate would tantamount unio inviting Hindu Raj. I met so many Shia volers in that 
Tehsil. They told me that the respondent No . I was exploiting the name of Aga Sahib 
of Badgum in his favour. It was according to Aga Sahib making the Congress candidate 
Succossful would be inviting infidelity . The Aga bad issued letters , to his followers to 
vote for the National Conference candidate and not for the Congress candidate " . in cross 
examination he states that " . . . . . . 1 have not said in the petition that I went to Badgam 
during my election campaign . I have not specifically mentioned name of any person 
having told me about the religious propaganda carried on by the respondent No. 1 . . . . . . 
I can remember the name of Ghulam Hassan Dar and Sadiq Ali who told me that the 
letters and amulets woro issucd by the Aga of Badgam but they did not show mo any 
such thing nor did I insist for the production of such things. I have not mentioned the 
names of Ghulam Hassan Dar and Sadiq Ali having given me this information in my 
petition . I do not know Aya Sahib . . . . . . I have never seen Aga Sahib s face " . The 
petitioner further states that " there were five non -Muslim candidates on behalf of the 
National Conforence party from Kashmir Valley . In the Tangamarg Constituency the 
Congress candidate Muslim was defeated by a National Conference candidate , a Sikh 
gentleman Similarly in Rafia -abad Constituency a Sikh candidate of tho National 
Conference was defeatod by a Muslim candidate of the Congress Party " . Sadiq Ali was 
not produced . Ghulam Hassan Dar ihough produced does not support the petitioner s 
statement as mado by him . In addition to this evidence the evidence produced in support 
of this issue by the petitioner is Munshi Mohi- ul- Din Salati states that on behalf of the 
respondent party it was alleged among the voters that Aga Sahib had issued directions 
that voting should be done in favour of the National Conference and not in favour of 
the Congress Party becausc voting in favour of Congress would be inviting Hindu Raj. 
Such propagandy aroused communal passion . This witness has not gone to Badgam 
Assembly Constituency at all. Ic has never met Aga Sahib during 21st January , 1967 
lo 21st February , 1967. He did not see any pamphlets , posters , etc ., published by or on 
behalf of the respondent within the limits of his constitucncy . Does not remember who 
told him about Aga Sahib . Mohammad Abdulla Shair, P . W . states that he bad heard 
that the rospondent s party saying that Congress is 1 irreligious body , people should not 
vote in favour of the Congress candidate . He does not remember having seen any poster 
or published material issued by or on behalf of the respondent or on bohalf of Agu Sahib 
of Badgam . Ghulam Hassan Dar, P . W . states that the propaganda that was carried on 
behalf of the respondent was that under the directions of Aya Sahib votes should not be 
cast in favour of the Congress candidato . Congress is a body of irreligious people ind 
success of Congress would inean Hindu Raj in the State. He heard about this propaganda 
from voters , nançly , Ghulam Haider, Abdul Karim , Sardar Rugh Nath Singh , Munshi 
Mohi-ud -Din , Syed Ghulam Hassan and other ; but none of these people were produced 
nor were their names mentioned in the petition . The witness further states that Agha 
Suhib did not deliver a specch on 21st February , 1967 Or carlier . About Aga Sahib the 
witness states that he is not a communalist but belicves in religious tolerance. Ghulam 
Rasul, P . W . states that there was propaganda on behalf of the respondent No . ! that 
Aga Sahib had issued Fatwa that all Shias should vote for National Conferenco candidate 
and against Congress candidates who want to induct thc Ramraj in tho Statę, Abdul Aziz , 
P . W . states that there was propaganda among Shia voters that Aga Sahib of Badgam had 
directed them not to vote for Congress, that would be bringing Hindu Raj, Mohd . Yusuf 
Wadha , P . W . states that the respondent delivered a public specch at Chandapora . After 
that hc went in his car to Habba Kadal Chowk , stopped the car and there he told the 
people not to vote for the Congress and to be careful not to get Hindu Raj into the State . 
Some Fatwas of Agil Sahib ot Badgam were also referred to that that place . But this 
witness states that he did not complain about the speech of the respondent 10 anyono but 
tho matter was reported to Syed Mir Qasini , and to the petitioner . Sardar Karan Singh , 
P . W . states that the National Conference workers enjoined uron S . Lal Singh to look 
towards Punjab as to what wits being donc there , why should he assist in bringing about 
Hindu domination into the State . According to this witness neither Lal Singh nor he 
made & report to the authorities . Họ however intormed the Congress candidate . This 
Lal Singh has not been produced . Malik Ghulam Mohammad, P . W . also states in the 
same strain but this witness states that he did not see any poster being circulated in his 
constituency . National Conference also accepts the accession of Kashmir with India as 
final os docs Congress. Ali Mohammad Pant, P . W . also makes such general allocations, 
He did not go to Budgam after July 1967. Ghulam Hassan Khan , P . W . states that the 
respondent No . 1 asked that people to vote for National Conference and not for Congress, 
why, he does not know . Peer Abdul Ahad Shah , P . W . also states likewise but he admits 


S 


Sec . 3( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12 , 1968 / ASVINA 20, 1890 4621 

G - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - 
that he never heard the respondent No. 1 making speech in his constituency on clection 
days nor did he movo out of his Constitucicy. He was carrying on election campaign 
on behalf of Shri G , M . Sadiq , Chicf Minister of the State . He did not come across any 
poster on behalf of the respondent. Mir Ghulam Mustaffa , P . W . also states that at Chari 
Sharif and Pakhoropora the respondent made an appeal on religious sentiments to the 
people . He states that he did not see any poster , published material on behalf of the 
respondent . He reported his matter to his friends and political workers. Mohammad 
Yusuf , P . W . also mentions that Aga Suhib of Badgam had issued Fatwa to vote in favour 
of the National Conference Party and against Congress because Congress donination 
would be invitiog Hindi Rai. There was no written poster on behull of respondent. News 
about this propaganda was not published in any newspaper. Ghulam Mohd . Keshi, P . W . 
statos to the same effect. According to this witness he informed the Congress Office of 
this propaganda of the respondent No. 1. Habib Ullab . Budhoo , Omkar Nath Trisal, 
Ghulam Mohd . Misger and Ghulam Hassan Khan also make similar statements . 


As aguinst these vague loose statements made by these witnesses , we have the (irst 
direct testimony of Aga Syed Yusuf, known as Aga Sahib of Badgan . His categorical 
statement is that the respondent never went to him during election nor did he ask him 
to make propaganda on behalf of any person or party . He lie . the Aga does not indulge 
in politics . He does not participate in any political meetings. He did not know what was 
the propuganda carried on by different parties . The offices of the National Cooforence 
and Congress are located in a building belonging to Auqaf, of which he is the President. 
Further we bave the statement of Bakshi Gulam Mobammad , respondent. He states 
that he has never taken recourse to making appeals on religious sentiments to people . On 
12th February , 1967 he addressed his first public meeting at Gadood Bagh, which was 
a joint meeting of the opposition parties. Whatever he has said in that public speech 
is contained in the issue of the Nawai Kashmir newspaper dated 13th February , 1967, 
which is Ex, D . W . 1 / 2 and his appeal to the public , published in that newspaper is 
snarked as Ex , D . W . 1 / 3 . He did not go to Habbakadal on this day but went straight 
from Gadood Bagh to his residence through Basant Bagh . He did not approach the Aga 
Sahih of Badgam nor did Aga Sahib issue any Fatwa or directive to the voters to vote 
for National Conference nor did he say that vote for Congress would be vote for Hindu 
Raj. The respondent further stated that “ there is no basic difference between the 
principles given out by the Indian National Congress and the National Conference , . . . . . . . So 
far as the accession of the state with India is concerned . The National Couference fought 
for it, worked for it and stands for it . The Constituent Assembly clected on the National 
Conference ticket ratified the accession of Kashmir with India ." He admits having gone 
to Rainawari and making a public speech there . Similarly R . N . Kaul Advocate R . W . 
who also stood for Habbakadal Assembly Constituency seat but was defeated by the 
National Congress candidate stated that on 12th February , 1967 the respondent addressed 
a inceting at Gaclood Bagh , but he did not go to Habbakadal that day . He had accom 
panied the respondent in his election tour but nowhere was any religious appeal made 
by the respondent. Syed Ali Safvi RW . also , makes a similar statement. Mohd . Sultan 
Bhat R . W . who is a resident of Batawara also makes a similar statement. Tanki Nath 
R . W , who is a resident of Shitalnath , Srinagar Ghulam Mohammad Bhat, R / O Breain 
make similar statements stating thercin that the respondent never made any religious pro 
paganda during the clection campaign , 


It is easy for partymen to make such loose and vague statements . Not a word in 
writing has been shown to have been said or issued by or on behalf of the respondent, 
wherein ppcal to the religious sentiments of the Muslim was made or wherein the 
Congress or its candidates were described as infidels or " Yazeeds" . According to the 
witnesses for the petitioner the news of such objectionable propaganda having been carried 
by the respondent or his party , was conveyed to the party bosses. No protest was ever 
lodged by them . No issue of Khidmat, newspaper has been produced to show that there 
was any such complaint against the propaganda carried on by the respondent or by his 
party during the clection days . Khiclmut is an official organ of the Congress party . On 
the other hand the only documentary evidence Available is an issuç of Nawai Kashmir , 
of 13th February , 1967, a newspaper , in which the purport of Bakshi Ghulam 
Mohammad s speech as well as the appeal he made to the voters is published . This appeal 
is based on purely secular basis and there is no hint on religious basis to the voters. 
Besides , as stated by the respondent and as admitted by the petitioner as well as by some 
other witnesses for instance Ghulam Hassan Dar, there is no basic difference between 
thc Neals of National Conference and the National Congress. Both belicve in secularism 
and social democracy . Therefore it does not stand to reason why the respondent would 
carry on any religious propaganda to appeal to the sentiments of his co - religionists . His 
party had set up non -Muslim candidates and there were direct contest between Muslim 
candidates representing different partics . Shia candidates were set up by either party . 
All this has been plotted and attempted to he proved to somchow get the election of the 


- 4622 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12 , 1968 /ASVINA 20 , 1890 [PART II-- - 
THE GAZETTE OL 


respondent declared void . Besides , as I made a general remark about most of the 
witnesses for the petitioner in the beginning their statements un -corroborated by any 
documentary evidence but contradicated by Aga Sahib of Badgam and other respondent s 
witnesses do not deserve any credence . The result is that even this issue is not proved 
by the petitioner. 

The result is that this clection petition has no merit, it deserves dismissal and is hereby 
dismissed with cost. Counsel fee shall be computed at Rs. 700 . 

The substance of this order shall be intimated to the Election Commission and the 
Spcaker of the Lok Sabha immediately and an authenticated copy of this judgment shall 
be gent as soon as possible to the Election Commission as per terms of Section 103 of the 
Representation of People Act. 

SRINAGAR 
the July 31st , 1968. 

Sa. / 

Judge . 
[No. 82 / 3 / J & K / HP /68 .) 

By Order , 
K . S. RAJAGOPALAN , Secy . 


New Delhi, the 24th September 1968 
$ . 0 . 3530, — In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, 
the Election Commission heroby publishes the Order , pronounced on the 12th August, 1968 
by the High Court of Judicature for Rajasthan at Jodhpur in Election Petition No. 14 
of 1967. 


IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE FOR RAJASTHAN AT JODHPUR 

JUDGMENT 
Karan Singh , son of Rawat Singh , r / o Rohandi, Tehsil Parbatgar, District-Nagpur, 
Rajasthan . 

Vs. 
Nand Kumar Somani S / o Shri Gajadhar Somani, r / o Maulasar , Tehsil-Deedwana, 

District-Naguar. 
2 . Gulab Chand Kabra S / o Sri Kanhaiyala , r /o Kuchamancity , Tchșil-Nawa, 

District-Nagaur, Rajesthan . 
ELECTION PETITION No. 14 OP 1967 UNDER SECTION 80 , 80- A AND 81 or trie 

REPRESENTATION OF THE PEOPLE ACT, 1951, 
Date of judgment : 

August 12 , 1968 

PRESENT 
Reportable 

THE HON BLE MR. JUSTICE L . N . CHHANGANI. 
Shri G , M . Lodha -- for the respondent No. 1. 
Shri M . R . Bhansali — for the respondent No. 2 . 

Shn S . N . Bhargava — for applicant Shri Onkar Singh . 
By the Court 

This is an election petition filed by one Shri Karan Singh calling in question the 
election of tho respondent No, 1 Shri Nand Kumar Somani to the Lok Sabha from the 
Nagaur Parliamentary Constituency in the last general elections. 


The petition was initially presented by Shri Karan Singh on 11th April 1967 in which 
the respondent No. 1 Shri Nand Kumar Somani was impleaded as the sole respondent. 
It may be pointed out that the candidates for election from the Nagaur Parliamentary 
Constituency in the last general election included one Shri Gulab Chand Kabra , who shall 
be referred as respondent No. 2 as also one Shri Onkar Singh , who shall hereafter be 
referred to as applicant. After the presentation of the election petition Shri Gulab Chand 
Kabra submitted an application under section 86 of the Ropresentation of the People Act 
(hereinafter referred to as the Act ) on 9th May , 1967 for being joined as a respondent. 


electie also tation of thehe 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12 , 1968 / ASVINA 20, 1890 


4623 


This Court, on 6th July , 1967, allowed the application of Shri Gulab Chand Kabra and 
ordered that he shall be impleaded as a respondent on the condition that he deposited 
Rs. 2 , 000 as security for costs within one month . The said amount having been deposited , 
he was joined as a respondent by the order of this Court dated 21st July , 1967. It may 
be further mentioned that after some charges of corrupt practices were atruck down by 
this Court Shri Gulab Chand Kabra submitted an application for being transposed as a 
potitioner. This application was rejected on 13th September, 1967 . An application for 
rc -hearing was presented but was eventually not pressed . 

The other contesting candidate Shri Onkur Singh did not choose to put in any appli 
çation under section 86 of the Act. 


The respondent No. 1 contested the clection petition and denied the various allegations 
made against him . 


On thc plcading of the parties issues were framed on 23rd October , 1967. This Court 
framed one preliminary issue and four issues on merits. The preliminary issue was decided 
on 13th December , 1967 and the case remained for recording the evidence of the parties. 
No date was , however , fixed for recording evidence , On 3rd May, 1968 the petitioner 
Shri Karan Singh submitted an application for fixing an early date for recording his 
evidence . 7th and 8th May, 1968 were fixed for recording the petitioners evidence. 
However , on behalf of the petitioner an adjournment was sought and eventually 
it was directed on 10th May , 1968 that a date for recording evidence of the petitioner 
shall be fixed in the month of July , 1968 . On 10th July , 1968 the petitioner Shri Karan 
Singh presented an application praying that the recording of his evidence should be com 
menced . The case came up before me and the petitioner insisted that his statement be 
recorded and the statements of his witnesses be also recorded . The case was taken up : 
on 10th July at different points of time and eventually ono Shri Mahavir Raj Bhansali , 
Advocate , appeared on behalf of Shri Gulab Chand Kabra , respondent No. 2 und prayed 
that his client should be transposed as a petitioner and be permitted to lead evidence in 
support of the allegations contained in the election petition, Shri Karan Singh also 
submitted an application praying that his evidence be closed . The Court closed the 
evidence of the petitioner Shri Karan Singh . Dealing with the prayer of Shri Mahavir 
Kaj Bhansali on behalf of Shri Gulab Chand Kabra , he was directed to submitted an 
application in writing . An application in writing was made by Shri Gulab Chand Kabra , 
This application was opposed by the respondent No . 1 but this Court permitted Shri 
Gulab Chand Kabra to lead evidence in support of the allegations contained in the election 
petition . On 7th August, 1968 , however , Shri Gulab Chand Kabra algo submitted a 
written application stating that his witnesses based their allegations on information received 
from other sources and that none of them was prepared to gwear the allegations on oath , 
It was also stated that he himself had no personal knowledge regarding the allegations 
contained in the election petition . On this application , the ovidence of Shri Gulab Chand 
Kabra was also closed . In the meanwhile , one Shri Onkar Singh applicant submitted an 
application under section 151, Civil Procedure Code and section 109 and 110 of the Act. 
It was stated in this application that the action of the petitioner Shri Karan Singh is not 
examining himself and is not adducing evidence is equivalent to the withdrawal or non 
prosecution of the election petition and consequently , this Court was requested to act 
under the provisions of sections 109 and 110 of the Act. This application is contested 
by the respondent No . 1 . I heard Mr. Bhargava on behalf of the applicant and Mr. 
Guman Mal Lodha for the Respondent No. 1. 


At thc out set it will be useful to refer to the observations of the Supreme Court in 
Jagan Naib y . Jaswant Singh and others ( 1 ) which read as follows: 
" The general rule is well settled that the statutory requirements of election law 

must be strictly observed and that an election contest is not an action at 
law or a suit in equity but is a purely statutory proceeding unknown to the 
common law and that the court possesses no common law power . It is also 
well gettlod that it is a sound principle of natural justice that the success 
of a candidate who has won at an election should not be lightly interferred 
with and any petition seeking such interference must strictly conform to the 

requircment of the law ." 
Proceeding to examine the legal position in the light of the above observations of the 
Supreme Court I find it very difficult to invoke sections 109 and 110 of the Act in the 
prosent cage . On an ordinary plain and stämmetical construction of the language of 
sections 109 and 110 of the Act an application for withdrawal is necessary for laying 


- - - 


- 


( 1) A . I. R . 1954 Supreme Court 210 . 


4624. THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12 , 1968/ ASVINA 20 , 1990 [PART II 

- - - - - - 

- 
down the foundation for taking further proceedings as envisaged in these sections and 
having regard to the well -known and well settled principles relating to the interpretation 
of statutes I do not see any compolling and substantial reasons to ignore tho plain grann 
matical meaning and to interpret these sections 50 as to authorise the Court to tako 
proceedings envisaged in the sections even in cases where no such applications have been 
filed , I am very clear that in the absence of application for withdrawal a request for 
taking action under these sections on the basis of the conduct of the election petitioner 
amounting to an act of non - prosecution of tho election petition un implied withdrawal 
cannot bo considered valid and permissible . As emphasised by the Supreme Court in 
the observations extracted above this Court can only act strictly in accordance with the 
provisions and cannot javoke and exercise powers not specifically conferred by the 
statutes. 

Apart from the general principles the case -law also goes against the petitioner . 

In Heer Singh and others v . Veerka and another (2 ) a Bench of this Court summed 
up the position as follows : 
" In our opinion these provisions ( referring to ss. 109 & 110 ) would have como 

into play only if the election petition were to be withdrawn from the 
Tribunal and the withdrawal was yranted but in the present case the election 
petition was never sought to be withdrawn at any stage. Permission to 
withdrawn the election petition was never asked for ipuch - less it was given 
in the present case . Consequently , the provisions of section 110 ( 3 ) (c ) were 
never, and could not be, attracted , and , therefore , the petitioners were not 

entitled to come before the Tribunal in any case ." 
In Heer Singh v . Veerka ( 2 ) a few voters of the constituency sought leave to uppeal 
to the High Court after the dismissal of tho election petition alleging that the clection 
petitioner had colluded with the respondents and they further relied upon the fact that 
the Tribunal had also recorded a finding to that cffeot. The Bench of this Court refused 
permission to those voters to flle an appeal. The learned counsol for the applicant sub 
mitted that in Heer Singh v . Veerka the voters did not make any application during the 
trial stage and , therefore , the facts of that case are distinguishablo and the principle of 
the case cannot be applied to the present case . It will be pertinent to observe that the 
bench in Heer Singh v . Veerka ( 2 ) examined the matter exhaustively and after such 
examination stated the principles in general and wide terms, and bearing in mind the 
language of the relovant provisions , I entirely agree with the principle stated widely and 
unhesitatingly hold that tho principles in that case should apply to the present case in 
spite of the apparent differences in the facts of the two cases . 

In another decision of this Court Gappat Singh 1 . Brijmohanlal Sharma ( % ) a Bench 
of this Court stated as follows: 
" It has been held by this Court in the case of Heer Singh 1 . Veerka , AIR 1958 

Raj. 181, that the provisions of ss. 108 to 110 came into play only if the 
election petition is withdrawn and the withdrawal is granted. Wo respect 

fully agree with that view ." 
" Learned counsel has argued that in this case though there was 110 application for 

withdrawing the election petition yet the petitioner Shri Kalyansingh was 
withdrawing from the case by a back door and this must be taken to be 
a case of withdrawal. There is much difference between withdrawing an 

clection petition Ank ] in not conducting an election petition ." 
The facts of this case even though they may not be treated as identical with the facts 
of the present case , clearly resemble the facts of the present case and a few minor 
variation in the facts pointed out by the learned counsel cannot be considered sufficient 
to exclude the applicability of the principle of the case to the present casc . 

Recently after the amondment of the Representation of the People Act in 1966 by Act 
No. 47 of 1966 sections 109 and 110 came up for interpretation before a Full Bench of 
the Punjab High Court in Jugal Kishore S / o . Lal Chand v. Doctor Baldev Parkash ( 4 ) 
in conncotion with the controversy over the discretion of the High Court in the matter 
of refusing leave to withdraw olection petition and the High Court s competance to dismiss 
the election petition in default. Grover J. as he then was, in his concurring opinion , 
made observations pointing out that the Court cannot successfully prevent the petitioner 


(2 ) I.L . R . (1958 ) 8 Rajasthan 380 . 
(8 ) A . I. R . 1959 Rajasthan 114 , 
(4) A .I.R . 1968 Punjab 152 . 


Sec . 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12 , 1968 /ASVINA 20 , 1890 4625 
- - - - -- - - - -- - : - — = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = 

= = = =A S 
from circumventing the provisions relating to the withdrawal of the election petition by 
choosing to absent or by omitting to produce or examine witnesses. The observations 
indicate that in case a petitioner does not present an application for withdrawal but 
merely omits to produce evidence , the provisions of sections 109 and 110 of the Act 
cannot be invoked . 

In Kesharilal Kavi and unother v . Narain Prakash and others (0) I expressed my 
respectful agreement with the opinion expressed by Grover J, as he then was. 

The petitioner s counsel could not offer any successful answer to the submissions made 
on behalf of the respondent No. 1 on the basis of the casc -law cited above . It was only 
gonerally contended that in the election petition contest is not only between election poti 
tioner and the respondent but is between the respondent and the entire constituency and 
that the election petition should not be permitted to be brought to immature termination . 
Such observations very appropriate in the context of the facts of the particular cases 
cannot be permitted to warrant an inference that even though the statutory requirements 
of sections 109 and 110 are not fulfilled yet this Court should take action under gections 
109 and 110 of the Act. Had the applicant Onkar Singh taken action under section 86 
of the Act and become a party , it would have been open to him to lead cvidence in 
support of the election petition but at this stage hc cannot be heard to say that the non 
prosecution by the original petitioner Shri Karan Singh be treated as an act amounting 
to withdrawal of the election petition so as to entitle him to be substituted as a petitioner . 
The application is, therefore , not maintainable and is dismissed . 

The allegations in the election petition remain wholly unsubstantiated as neither the 
election petitioner nor the respondent No . 2 , who sought an opportunity to icad evidence, 
led any evidence . The election petition is also dismissed . In the peculiar circumstances 
of the case there will be no order as to costs . 

The substance of the above order shall be communicated forthwith to the Election 
Commission and the Speaker of the Lok Sabha. An authenticated copy of this judgment 
shall be sent to the Election Commission as soon as it is prepared , 

Sd, L . N . CHHANGANI. 

[No. 82 /14 / 67(RJ).] 
CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 20th September 1968 
S .O . 3531. — In the Election Commission of India Order No, BR -HP / 34 /67(42 ), dated 
the 15th July , 1968, made under the section 10A of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951, bearing S .O . 2703 and appearing on pp . 3594 -3595 in the Gazette of India , Part II , 
section 3 ( 1 ) , dated the 3rd August, 1968, the name and address of the candidate may be 
corrected to read as " Shri Jayanti Singh Rathaur of Lohanipur, P . O . Kadam Kuawan , 
District Patna (Bihar )" . 

[No. BR -HP / 34 /67 .] 

By Order, 
A . N . SEN , Secy . 


na ne 


ke 


bolnice the amount forget 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 24th September 1968 
S . O , 3532 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by proviso to Article 309 of the 
Constitution , the President hereby directs that the Lt. Governors of Delhi . Himachal 
Pradesh and Pondicherry and Chief Commissioners of Manipur and Tripura shall exercise 
the power to make rules in regard to the following matters , namely : 
(i) the method of recruitment to the Central Civil Services and posts class I under 

their Administrative Control in connection with the affairs of the Union 

Territory concerned: 
(ü ) the qualifications necessary for appointment to such services and posts ; and 
(iii) the conditions of service of persons appointed to such services and posts for the 

purposes of probation , confirmation, seniority and promotion ; 
(5) Civil Misc. Restoration Application No. 93 of 1967 decided by Rajasthan High 
Court on 19th April , 1968. 


SY 


S 


A 


S 


. 


. ! _ - 


" 


= 


= 


4626 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 12 , 1968 / ASVINA 20 , 1890 (PART II 

= 
2 . Any recruitment rules, including any rule relating to probation , confirmation , 
scoiority and promotion , mado in pursuance of this direction shall be subject to previous 
consultation with the Union Public Service Commission . 

3 . Nothing contained in this notification shall apply to services and posts borne on a 
cadre common to two or more Union territories . 

[No. 24 /78 / 68- DH (S).] 
B. C . PARIJA , Dy. Secy . 


New Delhi, the 26th September 1968 
S . O . 3533 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the Proviso to Article 309 of the 
Constitutior of ladiu the President is pleased to make the following rules further to 
amend the Manipur Employees (Revision of Pay) Rules, 1966 namely : 
(i) These rules may be called the Manipur Employees (Revision of Pay) Amend 

ment Rules, 1968 . 
(ii) These shall come into force with effect from 1st April , 1964 , 
In the Manipur Employees (Revision of Pay) Rules, 1966 , below rulo No. 10 , the 
following shall be inserted : 
Provided further that in the case of a Governmont servant who was in the existing 

scale with biennial rate of increment, the next increment shall bo granted 
to him in the rovised scale on the date it would have been admissible to 
him had the rate of increment been annua ). 

(No. 1 / 16 /65-HMT. ) 


Corrigendum 

New Delhi, the 26th September 1968 
SUBJFCT. — Manipur Employees (Revision of Pay ) Rules, 1966 Corrigendum to . 

8 .0 . 3534 .- - Ploase read FR 26 (b )(u ) for FR 26 (b )(b ) occurring in Note (ü ) below 
Rule 9 ( 3 ) of Manipur Employees (Revision of Pay ) Rules, 1966 . 

[No. 1/ 16 /65- HMT.) 
R , C . JAIN , Dy. Secy . 


Neu Delhi, the 28th September 1968 
S . O . 3535 . In exorcise of the powers conferred by sub- section ( 1 ) of section 492 of 
the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1898 (5 of 1898 ), the Central Governmont hereby 
appoints Shri P . P . Khambatta , Advocate , Bombay as a Public Prosecutor for tho conduct 
of caso , R , C . No. 2 / 66 / FS . IT against Shri Anil Kumar Choksi and others in the original, 
appellate and revisional courts in tho State of Maharashtra . 

[No. 225 / 46 /68 -AVD .II.) 
A . P. VEERA RAGHAVAN , Dy. Secy . 


ORDER 


New Delhi, the 5th October 1968 
8 . 0 . 3536 Whereas an application has been made to the Central Government 
within the period specified in sub -paragraph ( 2 ) of paragraph 4 of the Official Trusteo , 
Bombay ( Reorganisation ) Order, 1963, by the Official Trustco , Gujarat State , for the 
transfer to it of all the properties subject to the Trusts specificd in the Schedule annexed 
horeto and which now vest in the Official Trustee, Maharashtra State ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conforred by sub- paragraph (2 ) of 
paragraph 4 of the Official Trustee , Bombay ( Reorganisation ) Order, 1963, the Central 


SEÇ . 3 ( )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 12 , 1968 /ASVINA 20 , 1890 


4627 


Government hereby directs that the whole of the aforesaid properties sholl, with effect 
from the 15th day of October , 1968 , cease to be vested in the Official Trustee , Maharashtra 
State and be vested in the Official Trustee , Gujarat State . 

THE SCHEDULE 
1. Nathibal Shankerlal Harichand . 
2 . R . K . Nariman A / C .I. 
3 . B . K . Nariman . 

[No. F .8 / 1 /67 -SR .) 
K . R . PRABHU , Jt. Secy . 


विदेश मंत्रालय 


facit, 4 fra 1968 
PHOTO 3537 . - - 771TX Ti piani ftat ( TTT TT 97995 ) fifaTTH 
1948 Ft Ert 2 39-ETET ( # ) # FAR , # r * gagart TRITA TEET TUOTT 
अम्मान ( जोर्डन ) में श्री जे० एन० डी० लो , सहायक को तत्काल , अग्रेतर आदेश होने तक , कोंसली 
अभिकर्ता का कार्य करने का अधिकर देती है । 

[ To po ito 4330/ 1/68.] 
To allo scuff, wat afara (489677 ) 1 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 17th September 1968 
5 .0 . 3538 . - In pursuance of clause (a ) of Section 2 of the Diplomatic & Consular 
Officers (Oaths and Fees ) Act, 1948 , the Central Government hereby authorise Shri M . K . 
Malik , Assistant in the Consulate of India , Khorramshahr, to perform the dutics of a 
Consular Agent during the period from 17th April 1968 to 16th June, 1968. 

[No. T.4330 / 1 /68 .) 
S . K . CHATTERJEE , Under Secy . (Conşular). 


CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECT TAXES 

CORRIGENDUM 

INCOME- TAX 

New Delhi, the 21st September 1968 
S . O . 3539 . — In exercisc of the powers conferred by sub - section (1 ) of Section 122 of 
tho Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) and of all other powerg enabling it in that behalf, 
the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby directs that for the words and figuros " This noti 
fication shall tako effect from 13th January , 1968 " appearlog in their notification S . O . 
2712 No. 62 ( F . No, 50 / 12 /68 - ITJ) , dated the 12th July , 1968 at page , 3600 - 3601 of Part 
II section 3 ( ii ) of the Gazette of India dated 3rd August, 1968 the following words and 
figures shall be substituted , namely : 
This notification shall take effect from the 16th September, 1968. 

[No, 85 (F . No. 50 / 12 /68- ITJ).) 
S . V . SUBBA RAO , Under Secy. 


4628 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12 , 1968 / ASVINA 20 , 1890 [PART II -- 


CENTRAL BOARD OF EXCISE AND OUSTOMS 

CUSTOMB 

New Delhi, the 12th October 1968 
S . O . 3540 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 9 of the Customs Act, 1962 
( 52 of 1962 ) , and in supersession of the notification of the Government of India in the 
Central Board of Excise and Customs No. S . O . 2144 datod tho 15th June, 1968 , Part II , 
Section , 3 Sub - scection ( ü ) at page 3041, the Central Board of Excise and Customs 
horoby declare village Chinchwad in the Havellit Taluka of Poona district in the State 
of Maharashtra to be a warehousing station , 

(No. 139 /68 -Customs/ F . No. 3 / 21 /68-Cu . VII.] 

M . S. SUBRAMANYAM , Under Socy. 


COLLECTORATE OF CENTRAL EXCISE : CALCUTTA & ORISSA 

CENTRAL EXCISES 

Calcutta , the 26th August 1968 
S .O . 3541. - In exercise of the powers conferred on me by rule 5 of the Central Excise 
Officers of and above the rank of a Superintendent of Central Excise to exerciso , in their 
rospective jurisdiction in the Collectorate of Central Excise , Calcutta & Orissa , the powers 
of Collector under Rulo 56A ( 4 ) of the Central Excise Ruleg , 1944 . 

[No. 4 / 1968. ) 
N . MOOKHERJEE , Collector. 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE , BARODA 


CENTRAL EXCI$ ES 

Baroda , the 5th September 1968 
8 .0 . 3542. This Collectorate Notification No. 10 /68, Issued under lottor No. IV / 16 
14 /MP /68 , datod 23rd May, 1968 is hereby cancelled . 

{No. 12 / 68.) 
L . M . KAUL, Collector. 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE M .P . & VIDAREHA 

CENTRAL Excises 

Nagpur , the 18th September 1968 
8 . 0 . 3543 . - In exorcise of the powers conferredupon meunder Rule s of the Central Excise 
Rules 1941, I hereby empower the C : tral Excisc Omccrs sp cified in column 2 of the sub 
folned table to excrcise within their jurisdiction the powers of the " Collector" under the Central 
Řxcige Riles enumerated in columii I ther of gublect to the limitations get out in column 3 of the 
said table . 

TABLE 


Rank of Officer 


Limitations, if any 


Central Excise 

Rules 

1 


56 - A ( 2 ) 
56 - A ( 4 ) 


Assistant Collector 

To gron permission to avail of procedure of 

profornia credit under Rule 56 - A . 
Of and above the rank of Super - To the extent of powers of adjudication 
intendent 

delegated to them . 


2 . This 110eriedes the Colloctorate Notification No . 1 /65- Central Excise , dated 22 - 1-65 
Jsqued under this office endorsement C . No. IV ( 16 ) 8 - 1 /65-CX , dated 22 - 1 -65. 
F . No. V (a )7 - 1/64 CXI/ 

[No. 6 /1968 
VIPIN MANEKLAL , Collector. 


SBC. 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12 , 1968 /ASVINA 20 , 1890 


4629 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE : POONA 

CENTRAL. Excises 

Poona , the 19th September, 1968 
S . O . 3544.- - In exercise of powers vested in me under Rule 5 of the Central Excise 
Rules , 1944 , I empower all officers of and above the rank of “ Superintendent" in the 
Poona Central Excise Collectorate to exercise within their jurisdiction their owers of the 
Collector under sub-rule (4 ) of Rulc 56 - A of the Central Excise Rules, 1947, 
(F . No. VGN (30) 46 / Tech . A / 68 .). 

[No. CER 8 /68 .] 
D . N . LAL, Collector . 


- - - 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE : DELHI 

CENTRAL EXCISES 

New Delhi, the 21st September 1968 
S . O . 3545 . - - In pursuance of Rules of the Central Excise Rules , 1944 , T, Collector 
of Central Excise , Delhi, hereby authorise the Central Excise Officers of Central Excisc 
Collectorate , Delhi, of and above the ranks mentioned in column 2 of the table given 
below , to exercise within their respective jurisdictions, the powers of the Collector under 
the Central Excise Rules mentioned in column 3 of the table, subject to the limitations 
set out in column 4 thereof: 
- - - .- . 

- - - 

- . -- . 
Rank of Central Excise 

Limitations, if any 
Offccts 

Rules 
- - - -- - - - - ... - — 

3 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- -- - 
I Superintendent 

96ZH ( I) 

To accept first A . S . P . 
application for full period 
for which special proce 

dure can be availed of. 
2 Assistant Collector 

96ZH ( 2) 

To accept first A , S . P . 
application for a period 
le 88 than the prescribed 

period . 
3 Superintendent 

96ZH ( 4 ) 

To accept renwal applica 
tions in forin A . S . P . 
within the prescribed 

time limit. 
4 Adjudicating Officers 96ZL ( ) 

To demand duty , to confis 
to (iii) 

cate goods and to impose 
penalty in accordance with 
their limits of adjudica 

tion powers . 
( C . No. IV (8)2CE/68.) 

[No. 7/68 ) 
9 . O . 3546. In pursuance of Rule 5 of the Central Excisc Rules, 1944, I, Collector 
of Central Excise , Delbi, hereby authorise the Central Excise Officers of and above the 
rank of Superintendents of the Central Excise Collectorate , Delhi, to exercise within their 
respective jurisdictions , the powers of the Collector under Rule 56 - A (4 ) of the Central 
Excise Rules , 1944, 

2 . This Collectorate Notification No. 1ÇE / 65, dated 6th February , 1965 shall be 
troated as modificd to the above extent. 
( C . No. IV (8 )2CF / 68 .). 

[No. 8 /68 .} 
R . PRASAD , Collector. 


4630 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12, 1968 /ASVINA 20, 1890 [PART II – 


THE MYSORE CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE : BANGALORE 

CUSTOMS 

Bangalore, the 23rd September 1968 
S . O . 3547 . - In exerciso of the powers conferred by section 8 of the Customs Act, 
1962 and in supersession of all the previous notifications and declarations on the subject 
in so far as they relate to the Port of Mangalore , I, M , C . Das , the Collector of Customs, 
Mysore at Bangalore hereby approve the places at the Port of Mangalore specified in the 
Tablo appended hereto , for the unloading or loading of goods as specified in Columns 5 
and 6 thereof. 


( 121 ) 


Name of the Port No. of 

Wharf 


Name of Owner 


Limits of the Wharf 


Particulars of classes 
of goods to be dealt 

with 


The manner of dealing 
with them 


5 


Mangalore 


Mangalore 


Mangalore 


SEC,3(li)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:-OCTOBER12,1968/ASVINA20,1890 


Mangalore 


I The Commonwealth Tile The foreshore opposite the Commonwealth Tile Firewood & Clay Unloading. 
Factory , Jeppoo . 

Factory at Jeppoo , length 612 / inclusive of R Tiles & Ridges , Loading 
vooden baftia measuring 1301 E -Railway line, Bricks. 

W : Vacant foreshore , N : Factory ,S N . River . 
2 Mangalore Port Trust Seppoo Ferry Wharf measuring 100 / east pacant Hay , Sand & Bricks , Unloading and load 

foreshore ; West Whafr No. 3 , South ; Netravati by canoes only in the ing of laland mal 
River ;North : T . S . No. 819 . 

backwaters . 

chandise only. 
3 M /s . J. H . Morgan & The foreshore measuring 434/ E : Jeppoo Ferry , Firewood clay , Tiles , Unloading,Loading . 
Sons . 

W - V1:11 Forzhore , s . N . River , N - TS Ridges & Bricks. 

Nos. 794 and 818 , including Jetty go ft . 
4 Cascia Tile Factory . The foreshore in front of Cascia Tile Factory , FireFood and Clay Unloading, Loading. 

Jeppoo measuring 398 ft, including T Jetty mea - Tiles & Bricks , 
suring 21- 1 / 2 ft. E - J. H .Morgan ; W - Bahadur Ridges. 

Tile Works ; N - Factory S , N . River . 
5 Babadur Tile Works . The foreshore in front of the Tile Factory at Jeppoo Firewood and clay Unloading, Loading . 

measuring 365 ft . E - Cascia Tile Factory Wharf Tiles & Bricks Ridg 
No. 4 , W - Creek ; N - Tile Factory ; S - N . es. 

River. 
6 M /s . M . Rebello 

. The to 

The foreshore in front of the tile factory of M /s. M . FireFood & Clay Til- Valoading Loading . 
Sons. 

Rebello & Sons at Bolar - Length : 583 ft. ; E : es & Bricks Ridges. 
Creek ; W : N . River ; N : Tile Factory S : N . 

River . 
7 Mangalore Tile Co . The foreshore in front of the factory styled , the Firewood & Clay Unloading . 
(Original 

Mangalore Tile Co ., at Bolar - Length 547 ft . Tiles & Bricks & Loading. 
wharf 

including Jetty 17 - 1/ 2 ft. divided by East : TS Ridges. 
No. 8 

No . 784 ; W : Highland Tile Works; N : Tile 
nowin 

Factory ; S : N . River , 
cluded 
in No. 7 ) 


! 


Mangalore 


Mangalori 


. 


L- 


Ar.vn 


Mangalore 


4631 


4632 


Mangalore 


Mangalare 


Do . 


Mangalore 


Do . 


Mangalore 


Mangalore 


Do. 


8 Highland Tile Works The foreshore opposite the Tile Factory of High Firewood & Clay. Unloading. 

Land Tile Worksmeasuring North to South 83 ft. Tiles & Bricks and Loading. 
and East to West 242 ft. E : Mangalore The Co., Ridges. 
V : Sudarshana Tile Works , N : Tile Factory ; 

S : River . 
9 M / s. Sudarshan Tile The foreshore opposite the Tile Factory - Length 
Works 

150 ft, inclusive of two jetties 23 ft. eachE : 
High Land Tile Factory ; W : Coronation Tile 

Works , N : Factory ; S : River, 
Iº Coronation Tile Works . The foreshore in front of the Tile factory - Length : 

116 ft , with Jetty 25 - 1 / 2 ft . E : Sudarshan Tile 
Works ; W : N . River & Tower drain ; N : Factory ; 

S : River , 
IL M / s.AP. Metpadi Bros. The foreshore opposite the Tile Factory - Length : Firewood and Clay. Unloading. Loading 

198 ft . with Jerty 2 Ift .XI5.ft ; E : River & Town Tiles & Bricks & 
drain ; W : Creek ; N : Factory ; S : River . 

Ridges . 
12 M /s.Rego & Sons The foreshore opposite the tile factory -- Length 

142 ft. with jetty 27 ft. E : Portland licensed to 

Narsu Kotian ; W : Jetty ; N : Factory ; S : River. 
13 Corporation Tile Works The foreshore opposite the tile factory - Length 

227 ft. with jetty 20 ft. B : Vacant plot proposed 
for agricultural purpose ; W : River , N : Tile fac 

tory ; S : River . 
14 M /s. Hameediah Tile The foreshore opposite the tile factory _ length 339 
Works . 

ft. ; E : River ; W : River & Pioneer Tile Works ; 

N : Factory ; S : River . 
15 M /s. Pioneer Tie Works The foreshore opposite the Tile Factory - length 

173 ft. with Jetty 8 ft. E : Hameediah Tile Works, 
W : River ; N : A . B . Pinto & Sons , Oriental Tile 

Works; S : River . 
16 Battery Tie Works The foreshore opposite the Tile Factory - Length 

220 fts B : Factory , W : River, N : factory ; S : 

River . 
17 Oriental Tile Works The foreshore opposite the Tile Factory - Length 

428 ft. with Jetty 6 - 1/ 2 it . E : Pioneer Tile Works ; 
W : River ; N : Runara T1e Works , S : RITET. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:OCTOBER12,1968/ASVINA20,1890"(PARTII 


Mangalore 


Mangalore 


. 


Mangalore 


Moralis 


Marigore 


, 


UEC 


Mangalore 


galon 


. 


Mangalore 


, 


Mangalor 


. 


ing 


18 Banana 114 Works The foreshore opposite the tile factory - Length 96 Firewood & Clay, Unlondiog. 

ft, East ; Factory ; West : River ; North : Creek ; Tiles , Ridges and Loading . 
South : Oriental Tile Works. 

Bricks. 
19 M /s . Coelho Bros . The foreshore opposite the tile factory - Length 273 

Do. 
ft . with jetty 8 - 1 / 2 - E : Tile factory , W : River ; Do . 

N : Drainages ; S :Greek and river . 
20 Mangalore Port Trst TheMuine Yard measuring 95 ft. North : to South . Jetty for non -dutiable Unloading and Load 
TWO wooden jetties owned by Fisheries Depart . fish only . 

ing . 
mzat for landing and shipping of Non -dutiable Coir , Salt, duriable Unloading & louding . 
Fish only . 

fish & dates , Govt. 
Jetties ( 1) 69 XII: & 102 x11! (East to West) gunnits and explo 
80 ). 

sives , combustible 
(2) 1612/ 3X125 1/3 (17ft. wide 125- 1/2 dangerous substanc 
East to West). 

es and articles . 
W & S : Backwaters : 

E & N : Public road . 
21 M /s. Ethel Rodrigues . The foreshore opposite TS No. 49 and 50 of Man - Timber & firewood. Unloading and load 

galare Thota yıllage measuring 388 ft . East Patta 
Land , West River , North : T . S . NO. IOB and Mu 

nicipallatrine , So ith : Port Trust land and passage . 
M /s. Ethel Rodrigues · (Now included in Whard No. 21). 
22 M /s. S .C . Abdul Rahim - The foreshore in front of the godown , in TS No. 8 Free goods from Unloading and load 
an & Koragappa . 

of Mangalore Thota village - length 1o2 ft. ; B : Customs Ports such ing after special per 
Godowa in TS No. 8 ; W : Gipur River ; N . W : 28 fish salted or un mission has been ob 
No, 25 ; S : Port land licensed to Boat Fund As salted , fish manure , tained in each case 
sociation . 

fish oil, mats and coir provided that offen 
for packing the same. sive goods are renoy 

ed immediately after 
landing and not stor 
cd near occupied 
house and that proper 
cart is exercised to 

keep the place clean 
23 Ladian National Tile The foreshore opposite the tike factory - Length 152 Firewood , Coal clay Unloading. 
Works. 

ft - E : INT Works W :Gurpur River N : Creek ; Tiles & bricks Ridges Loading. 

S ; Creek and Bamboo Basin . 
24 Joe The Works 

The foreshore opposite the sile factory - length 64 ft Firewood & Clay Til - Unloading . 

E : Tile Factory ; W : River; N : Creek ; S : Creet es, ridges and Bricks Loading. 
25 Taj Tile Works · The foreshore opposite the tile Factory - Length 173 Firewood , Coal and Unloading. 
ft , with Jetty 12 ft. E : Factory ; W : River , N ; clay . 

Loading 
Albuquerque & Sons and Creek ; S .Creek and Joe Tiles , bricks and ridg 
Tile Works . 


Sec.3(G)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:OCTOBER12,1968/ASVINA20,1890 


Mangalore 
Mengulore 


Mangalore 


. 


Mangalore 
Μαπααε 


, 
. 


MZ 


4633 


4034 


Mangalore 


es . 


Mangaolre 


(Old No . 


26 M /s . A . Albuquerque & The foreshore opposite the tile factory - Length 490 Firewood , clay Coal. Unloadirg. 
Sons. 

ft. with Jetty 25 ft - E : Factory ; W : River ; N : Tiles , bricks and ridg - Loading . 

Channel ; S : Creek 
27 Mangalore Port Trust . The Government Timber Depot to the South of Government Timber, Unloading . 

Railway Goods Station measuring about 220 ft. Firewood and 
North to South , bounded on the north by the Bamboo . 
Railway Goods Station , east by a public road , 
West by the river and South by M / s. Albuquerque 
and Sons Tile Works. 


29 ) 


Margalore 


28 


(Old 38 


Do. 


Mangalore 


(Old 3779 


Do . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:OCTOBER12,1968/ASVINA20,1890(PARTII— 


Mangalore 


con il Mameiore For Tee 


The quay in front of the Railway Goods shed mea - Free goods including Unloading and load 

suring I106 ft. north to south inclusive of three bamboo , timber, fish ing. 
wooden jetties of 40 ftxI3 ft. each and bounded on & salt and localmer 
the north by No. 29 and separated from the same chandise from 
by a barricade, on the South by Govt . Forest Tim - canoes . 
ber basin (wharf No. 27 ) , on the East by Railway 
Goodshed yard and on the West by Giirpur riger . Foodgrains and Fer - Unloading only . 

tilisers . 
The quay running north to south measuring 358ft. Free goods 
bounded on the south by whaft No. 28 and separ - Timber and other Loading and unload 
ated from the same by a barricade , on the north combustible goods. ing subject to immedi 
by the southern bank of a town drain , on the east 

ate removal. 
by Caltex installation , and on the West by Gurpur Caffee , Foodgrain & Loading . 
river . 

Fertilisers . 

Unloading. 
The day running north to south measuring 481 ft . Duitiable goods. Unloading and load 
bounded on the south by Wharf No. 29 and sep Free Goods . 

ing . 
arated from the same by the southern bank of 

. U loading and load 
the town drain , on the north by wharf No. 31 and Combustible and ing 
separated from the same by Mangalore Port inflamable goods in - Unloading only sub 
Trust Compo ind wall, on the east by Esso and cluding petroleum . ject to immediate re 
Burman Shell Oilinstallations and on the west 

moyal. 
by Gurpur River . 
The quarry running north to outh measuring 1031 Datiable goods. Unloading and load 
ft. bounded on the south by Wharf No. 30 and 

ing . 
separated from the same by Mangalore Port Foodgrains, Fertiliser Unloading 
Trust Compound Wall , on the north by theMan and other Govern 
galore Port Trust Department Dry Doct Wall , mert marges . 
the east by Public road and on the west by Gup 
pu TiTCT. 


30 Mangalore Port Trust 
(Old 323 


Mangalore 


31 


(Old 33) 


Mangalore 


. 


32 


Do . 


DS Do . 


Mangalore 


33 Mangalore Port Trust 


The quay in front of the Custom House and Port Dutiable goods. Unloading and load 
Office extending 456 ft. inclusive of passenger Jetty 
and enclosed by the North and South Customs Free goods. 
Walls. 

Passengers , 

Embarkation and dis 

embarkation , 
The quay rmning North to South measuriog 724 Duitable goods. Unloading and loading 

ft . bounded on the South by North CustomsWall 
on the North by Wharf No. 34 , and separated Free goods except Unloading and load 
from the same by a survey stone, on the east by wood and patroleum inpg . 
the Mangalore Port Trust Wharf and on the west products . 

by Gurpur River. 
The quay running North to youth measuring 240 Duitable goods. Unloading and load 

ft, bounded on the south by Wharf No. 33 and 
separated from the sameby a survey stone , on the Free goods inclusive 
North and West by river Gurpur, and on the of wood and other 
East by Mangalore Port Trust Wharf road . combustible mat 

erials except pat 

roleum products , 
The foreshore measuring 75 ft. in front of say mills, Timber 

E : Saw Mills , W : River , N : Timber basin of 
Ramachandra Naik , S : Vacant river basin , 


- 


- 


Mangalore 


34 


Do. 


- 


- 


ins . Do. 


Mangalore 


- 


35 K . Dayananda Rao 


Do. 


Sec.3(1)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:OCTOBER12,1968/ASVINA20,1890 


Mangalore 


Do . 


Mangalore 


and 


26 Ahamed AbdulRahiman The foreshore measuring 89 ft. in front of limekilo Firewood and chu 

with Jetty 6 ft - E : lime kiln , W : River, N : Vacant nam shells . 

Port land , S : R Naik s timber basin , 
37 Sujilkar s Tile Works The foreshore to the North and West of the tile fact- Firewood , clay Tiles Unloading 

Ory - length 256 ft. East to West and 354 ft ., & bricks ridges . Loading. 
North to South E : Tile factory , W : River Gur 

pur N : Creek , S : Town Br. in , 
3 The Commonwealth Tile The foreshore to the Southand est Wofthe tile factory Firewood and clay . Unloading 
Factory , Kodroli . 

measruing 175 ft. Fast to West and 414 ft. from Tiles and bricks and Loading. 
North to South with 4 jetties ( I) 141 fix197 ftridges. 
(2 ) 215 ft x 140 ft (3 ) 17tXI 4 * ft. (4 ) 21ft 
X14 - 3 /4ft. E : Tile factory , W : River , N Jairam 
Tile Works , S : Creek , 


Mangalore 


and 


Margalore 


39 Jairam Tile Works 


Firewood and Clay , Unloading 
Tiles bricks and ridges. Loading . 


and 


. The foreshore in front of the tile factory - length 

245 ft. separated in the middle by 99 ft of land 
licensed to Sri Veakataraman temple ; E : Factory 
V : River, N : Portland of MS. Nayak , S : 
sommonwealth Tile Factory . 


4635 


- 


L . 13 


A 2 1 


4636 


3 


Mangalore 


Mangalore 


40 Caders Chemical Indus - Foreshore in front of TS Nos. 1352 , 1353 & 1354 , Timber 

Unloading and loa 
trics . ( M . S . Nayek ). Casba Bazar Village and lergth - 188 ft., E : TS 

ing. 
Nos . 1352 , 1353, 1354 - V : River , N : Satyanara 

yan Tile Works , S : Jairam Tile Works. 
46 Satyanarayan Tile Works The foreshore in front of tile factory length : 197 ft . Firewood and Clay . Unloading . 
(P ) Ltd . 

E : Factory , W : River , N : River , S : Licensed to Tiles, ridges and Loading. 
Manel S . Nayak . 

bricks . 
42 Union Tile Works The foreshore in front of tile factory Length : 410 ft. Firewood & Clay. Unloading 
E : Factory ; W : River , N : River , S : Road . Tiles , bricks and rid - Loading. 

ges . 
43 Saoor Rice Mills (ori. The foreshore in front ofRice Mill - Length : 265 ft. 

Not approved as Do 
ginally of Kudpi Ananda - E : Rice Mill , W : River , N : Portland , S : Port 

loading or uploading 
da Rao ). land now used for stacking paddy rice etc . 

desired at present. 


Mangalore 


Mangalore 


Mangalore 


. 


Mangalore 


Do. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:OCTOBER12,1968/ASVINA20,1890(PARTII 


Mangalore 


44 Sovereign Tile Works The foreshore in front of Tile Factory Length : 137 Firewood and clay. Unloading. 

ft. with jetty 21 - 1 / 2 ft., E : Sovereign Tile Works, Tiles , bricks and rid - Loading. 
W : River , N : Imperial Tile Works , S : Portland ges. 

licensed to Isaru Hengsu . 
45 Imperial Tile Works The foreshore in front of the tile factory - Length : 

345 ft., E : Factory , W : River , North : Town 

Drain , S : Sovereign Tile Works . 
46 National Tie Works The foreshore in front of the tile factory - Length : 

141 ft. E : Factory , W : River , S : Town Drain , N : 

M . Rebello & Song. 
47 M /s. M . Rebello & Song The foreshore in front of the tile factory - Length : 
(Outside Portland ) 

180 ft - E : Factory , V : River, N : Portland , S ; 

National Tile Factory , 
48 Standard Tile Co. The foreshore opposite the Standard Tile Co ., 

Gopalakrishna Rice and Flour Mills measuring 
431 ft. from East to West and 308 ft. from North 
to So ith , E : Factory , W : River , N : Patta land , S : 

Foreshore of Hindu Cremation ground , 
49 Ashok Tiles & Saw M715 The foreshore in front of Asbok Tie and Saw Mills - Do. 

Length : 200 ft. from Past to West - E : Pectory 
V : Portland and River , N : Vacant Portland 
S : Channel 


Mangalore 


Mangalore 


. 


M 


alore 


Mangalore 


50 


M / m. Pompei Tile Works , The foreshors opposite the Pompai Tile Works , Tiles and ridges . 
Baloor , Mangalore - s , measuring 132 ft. indusive of a jetty measuring 
OWDKT MI, F .XD , Pinto L6 ft. x24 . bounded by north Gurpur River , on 

the south by road , on the east S . No. 184 - 1/ 3 
West S . No. 891 4A1 ( outside the Port limits ). 


Loading after getting I 
written permission 
from the Officer 
C istoms ifc . Ciston 
House an cach occa 

sion . 


Mangalore 


. 


Mangalore 


Mangalore 


SI Sri Thimmappa Lime Foreshore of his land measuring 50 ft. boundaries Lime Sbells . 

Do. 
Merchand , Baloor, by Pinto s Tie Factory on the west and river cban 
Mangalore . 

nel on the east ( outside the Port limit B ) . 
52 Smt. B . Vedayathi, Lirne Foreshore of the land S . No. 81/ 2 ,measuring 107 ft x Do. 

Manufacturer, Baloor, bounded by S . No. 81/ 1 on the North and on the 
Mangalore - 3 . 

the South by82/5 (outside the Portlimits). 
53 Sri P . Ramappa Moolya , The foreshore measuring 100 ft. of the land owned 

Do . 
Baloor, Mangalore - 3 . by Smt. Chandrama, including a jetty measuring 

35ft. X 6ft, bounded on the South by Sri Gurigap 
pa Moiley s land and on the North by Mysore 

Timber Mills ( outside the Port limits ). 
54 Mangalore Port Trust A piece ofland measuring a length of 800 ft . on sand - Fish manure and Unloading & Loading . 

spit to the east of Bokkapama Fish Curing Yard Bones and free salted 
and situated opposite Sulthan Battery . 

fish . 


$EC:3(ii)]THEGAZETTEOPINDIA:OCTOBER12,1968/ASVINA20,1890 


Mangalore 


. 


Mangalore 


. 


55 Do. 

A piece of the sandspit measruing 825 ft northern 

wards from 30 1thern limits of the Mangalore Fish 

Curing Yard . 
55 M / s. Pinto Launch Ser - Ishaped wooden jetty 77f086 ft ( 10 - 1 / 2 at east edge 
vice , Mangalore . 

on the eastern beach of Thota village sandspit 
between fisheries Higher Elementary School and 
S . K . Co - operative Marketing (Fish ) Federation 

Ltd ., Service Station , 
Do . The S . K . Dist, Co -op . T shapped wooden jetty measuring goftri roft (6 feet 

Fish Marketing Federa - wide constructed on wharf No. 55 ) . 
tion Ltd . 


Fish manute , Chu - Unloading & loading . 
nam shells and salted 
fish . 

Embarkation and dis 
cmbrakation of ferty 
passengers . 


Mangalore 


Mangalore 


For the movement of 

Federation staff - for 
servicing the launch es . 


Modloge 


. 


Chunam shells 


Untoading. 


56 Mangalore Port Trust . A portion of the sandepit on the Ullal foreshore 

measuring 600 ft . in length northwards from 
southern boundary of Manjalore Port Trust 
land limits, 


4637 


4638 


I 


_ 


Mangalore 


57 Ullal Tule Works , 

Owner : Coelho Bros . 


The foreshore oitside the port limits 11223 1ring 175 
ft. in froat of Ullal Tile Works . 


Tile , Clay & Limes Loading, unloading 

after getting per 
mission on each 
occcasion from Officer 
of Customs 
Customs House , 
Mangalore. 


[C , No. VIII / 48 / 65 / 67- CUS.] 

M . C . DAS, 

Collector. 


- 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:OCTOBER12,1968/ASVINA20,1890(PARTII 


Sec. 3( 11 )]. THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12 , 1968 / ASVINA 20, 1890 


4639 


E 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 

New Delhi, the 26th September 1968 
S .O . 3548.-- In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (1) of sub -section (3) of 
section 4 of thc Central Silk Board Act, 1968 (61 of 1948 ) , the Central Government 
hereby nominates the Director , State Purchasing Organisation and Ex -officio Deputy Secre 
tary to the Government of Orissa , Industries Department, Bhubaneswar to be a member 
of the Central $ ilk Board in place of Shri J . P . Das and makes the following further 
amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce 
S . O . 2260 dated the 28th Juno , 1968 , namely : 

In the said notification for the entry against serial number 29 , the following entry 
shall be substituted , namely - 

29 . Director of State Purchasing Organisation and Ex -officio Deputy Secretary to 
the Government of Orissa , Industries Department, Bhubaneswar ." 

[No. F .22 / 1 /67- Tex ( F ). ): 
Neu Delhi, the 28th September 1968 
S . O . 3549 . — The Government of Madhya Pradesh having nominated Shri Devi Sahay . . 
Secretary to the Government of Madhya Pradesh , Industries and Commerce Department, 
Bhopal, to be a member of the Central Şilk Board under clause (2 ) of sub -section ( 3 ) of 
sectiou 4 of the Central Silk Board Act, 1948 (61 of 1948) in place of Shri Devindarnath , 
the Central Government hereby makes the following further amendment in the notification 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce No . 1872 dated the 10th April, 
1967 , namely : 

In the said notification , for the entry against serial number 15 , the following entry 
shall be substituted, namely : 
" 15 . Shri Devi Sahay , Secretary to the Government of Madhya Pradeslı , Commerce 
& Industries Department, Bhopal." 

[No. F . 22 / 1 /67- Tex ( F ).1 
DAULAT RAM , Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 270) September 1968 
S . O . 3550 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Export (Quality 


that the following further amendments shall be made in the notification of the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of Commerce No. S . O . 3605 , dated the 30th December , 1963, 
namely : 

In the said notification for items 11, 12 and 14 , the following items shall respectively 
be substituted , namely : - - 
" 11. Shri T. Abdul Wahid , C /o Leather Export Promotion Council , Marble Hall , 

Vepery Road , Madras." ; 
" 12 . Shri K . Ramamurthy, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Food, Agriculturc , Com 

munity Development and Cooperation , Krishi Bhavan , New Delhi." ; 
" 14 . Dr. A Sarup, Dr. Sarup s Pest Control Private Ltd ., Calcutta ." . 

[No. 30 ( 38 )Exp.Josp / 66. ] 
P . V . RAMASWAMY, Under Secy. . 


RUBBER CONTROL 

New Delhi, the 28th September 1968 
S . O . 3551. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( c ) of sub -scction ( 3 ) of 
sçction 4 , and sub - section ( 2 ) of section 5 , of the Rubber Act, 1947 ( 24 of 1947 ), read 
with sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 3 and sub - sulc (2 ) of rule 4 of the Rubber Rules, 1955, the 
Central Government hereby appoints on the recommendation of the Government of Kerala , 
Shri K . Karunakaran Nair , Managing Director , Plantation Corporation of Kerala Itd ., 
Kottayam (Kerala ) , as a member of the Rubber Board with effect on and from the 28th 


4640 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 12, 1968 / ASVINA 20, 1890 [PART II — 


September, 1968 and upto the 21st February, 1971, in 
S . Anantakrishnan , ceașing to be a member , 


the vacancy caused by Sbri 


INo. F . 15 ( 3) Plant(B ) /67.] 
N . N . MALHAN , Under Socy . 


(Office of the Deputy Chief Controller of Imports and Exports ) 

ORDER 

Kanpur, the 29th August 1968 
$ .O . 3552 . - A licence No. P / SS / 1582479 , dated 22nd November, 1967 of the value 
of Rs. 1, 20 , 980 / - for import of Zinc, Nickel & Tin was issued to M / s. United Auto Traders , 
Naurangabad , Lakhimpur-Kheri. 

Thereafter a Show Cause Notice No. Enf. I ( 84 ) / 1968 /KAN dated 18th April, 1968 was 
issued asking them to show cause within 15 days of the date of receipt of the notice as to 
why the said licence in their favour should not bo cancelled on the ground that it was 
obtained through fraudulent mcans , and that it would not serve the purpose for which 
it was issued , in terms of clausc 9 , sub - clause ( cc ) of the Import (Control ) Order , 1955 
dated 7th December , 1955 AS Amended . 

The above Show Cause Notice has been returned undelivered by the postal authorities 
with the remarks that the addressco never met . 

The undersigned has carefully examined the casc and has come to the conclusion that 
the party have no defence to urge and have avoided a reply . 

Having regard to what has been stated in thc preceding paragraph , the undersigned 
is satisfied that the licence in question should be cancelled or otherwise rendered in effective . 
Therefore , the undersigned , in exercise of the powers vested in him under clause 9 sub 
clause ( cc ) of the Imports (Control ) Order, 1955 hereby cancel the licence No . P / SS / 

1582479 dated 22nd November , 1967 for Rs. 1 ,20 , 980 / - issued in favour of M / s . United 
- Auto Truders , Naurangabad , Lakhimpur-Kheri. 

[No. ENF.1 (84) / 1968 /KAN .1 

SARDUL SINGH , 
Dy. Chief Controller of Imports & Exports . 


(Оfice of the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports ) 

( Central Licensing Area ) 

CANCELLATION ORDER 

New Delhi, the 10th September, 1968 
S .O . 3553 . — M /s. Kashi Prasad & Sons, Gopiganp , Varanasi were granted an import 
ilçence No. P / EP / 2578650 / C dated 4th April , 1968. They have appliod for duplicate 
exchango control purpose copy of licence on the ground that the original Exchange Control 
Copy has been lost . It is further stated that original liconce was not registered with any 
Custom House and not utilized . 

In support of this contention , the applicant has Aled an affidavit. I am satisfled that 
the original Exchange Control Copy of licence No. P / EP / 2578650 / C dated 4th April, 1968 
has been lost and direct that a duplicato Exchange Control Copy of the licence should be 
issued to the applicant. The original Exchange Control purpogo copy of the licenco is 
cancelled . 

[No. Carpet - 1036 / 1966 / EPS -II/ SC .IV / CLA .] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 13th September 1968 
S . O . 3554. - A licence No. PSS 1610656C , dated 30th March , 1968 of the value of 
Rs. 10 ,000 / - for import of Stainless Steel Tubes and A . P . Sheets was issued to M / g. Medical 
Equipment ( India ) . Old Ruper Road, Model Town, Mani Mafra , Chandigarh ( U . T . ) . 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12 , 1968 / ASVINA 20 , 1890 


4641 


2 . Thereafter , a show cause notice No . M -4 /68 / Enf / CLA / 4779 dated 19th August, 
1968 was issued asking them to show cause within 15 days as to why the said licenco in 
their favour should not be cancelled on the ground that the Central Government is satisfiod 
that the licence will not serve the purpose for which it has been granted in terms of Clause 
9 , sub - clause ( cc ) . 

3 . The said show cause notice sent to the firm has been received back undelivered with 
· the remarks of the Postal authorities " Not found " . 

4 . Having regard to what has been stated in the preceding paragraph , the undersigned 
is satisfied that the licence in question should be cancelled or otherwise rendered incffective . 
Therefore , the undersigned ; in exercise of the powers vested in him under Clause 9 , sub 
clause ( cc ) of the Imports (Control) Order , 1955 hereby cancel the licence No. P /SS / 
1610656 / C dated 30th March , 1968 for Rs. 10 ,000 / - issued in favour of M / s . Medical 
Equipment ( India ) , Old Ruper Road , Model Town , Mani Majra , Chandigarh ( U . T .) . 

[No. M -4 / 68 /ENF/CLA / 3910 .] 

J. S . DEDI, 
Jt . Chief Controller of Imports & Exports . 


MINISTRY OF STEEL, MINES AND METALS 

(Department of Mlaos and Metals ) 

New Delhi, the 25th September 1968 
S .O . 3555. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (1 ) of section 13 of 
the Coal Mines ( Conservation and Safety ) Act , 1952 ( 12 of 1952 ) , read with rule 20 of 
the Coal Mines ( Conscrvation and Safety ) Rules, 1954 , and in supersession of the 
notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Steel, Mines and Heavy 
Engineering (Department of Mines and Metals ) No . S . O . 36 . dated the 20h December, 
1963, the Central Government hereby constitutes with immediate effect, Technical 
Advisory Committee (Mining) , which shall consist of the following persons, namely : 

Chairman 
1. Chief Mining Engineer, Coal Board , Calcutta (nominated by Coal Board ). 

Members 
2 . Deputy Chief Inspector of Mines, Dhanbad (nominated by the Chief Inspector 

of Minos ) . 
3 . Chief Mining Adviser, Ministry of Railways, Railway Board , Dhanbad. 
4 . Superintending Geologist. Geological Survey of India , Calcutta (nominee of 

Director , Geological Survey of India ) . 


Members representing Mining interests co -opted by the Board 
5. Area General Manager , National Coal Development Corporation Ltd., Ranchi. 
6 . Shri R , N . Sharma, Chief Mining Engineer, Tata Iron and Steel Co. Ltd ., 

Jamadoba, (Dhanbad ) . 
7. Shri J. R . Sharma, Chief Mining Engineer, Karam Chand Thapar and Brothers 

( Private ) Ltd ., Bhowra (Dhanbad ) . 
8. A nominee of the Bengal Coal Co. 
9. Shri J. S . Grewal, General Manager, Raneegungo Coal Association Ltd., Kustore , 

Dhanbad . 
10 . Shri O . H . Senior, M / s. Bird and Co ., ( Private ) Ltd ., P .O . Sijua (Dhanbad ) . 
Shri N . C . Dash , Inspecting Officer, Coal Board , Dhanbad , will act as Secretary to 
the Committee . 

[No. 05 -4 (3 ) /67.) 


New Delhi, the 28th September 1968 
S . O . 3556 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1) of section 15 of 
the Coal Mides (Conservation and Safety ) Act, 1952 ( 12 of 1952 ) read with rule 21 of the 
Coal Minca (Conservation and Safety ) Rules, 1954 , the Central Government hereby mater 
the following amendments to the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Steel, Mines and Metals (Department of Mines and Metals) No. S . O . 3989 , dated the 


4642 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968 / ASVINA 20 , 1890 [ PART II -- - 


28th . October, 1967 relating to the reconstitution of the Advisory Committee on Stowing.. 
namely : 

In the said notification, for items 1, 2, 4 And 5 and the entries relating thereto, the 
following shall respectively be substituted , namely : 

Chairman 
" J. The Chairman , Coal Board , Calcutta — (nominated by the Coal Board ). 

Members 
2 . The Chief Inspector of Mines or his nominoc . 
3. Shri R . Maulik , Vice -Chairman , Indian Mining Association , Calcutta . Representa 

tive of the Indian Mining Association . 
4. Shri B. R. Marwaha , Superintendent, Planning , Bengal Coal Co . Ltd., 8, Clive 
Row , Calcutta - 1. " - - Reprosentative of the Indian Mining Association . 

[ No. C5- 4 ( 2) / 67. 1 
A. SETHUMADHAVAN, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION & POWER 


New Delhi, the 21st September 1968 
S . O . 3557. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 2 ) of 
section 79 of the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966 (31 of 1966 ), the Central Government 
hereby appoints Shri B. S . Bansal, Chief Engineer , Government of Haryana as a whole 
tindo member of the Bhakra Management Board vice Shri J. S , Jain , with effect from tho 
date Shri B. S. Bansal assumes charge of such member, and makes the following amend 
ment in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Irrigation and 
Power , No. S. O . 3506, dated the 1st October , 1967, namely : 

In the said notification , for the existing entry against item 2 , the followins, entry shall 
be substituted, namely : - - 
" 2. Shri B. S. Bansal, Chief Engineer , Government of Haryana ". 

No. 7 / 7 / 68 - B & B. ] 
M . PRASAD, Under Secy.. 


सिंचाई और विलुप्त मंत्रालय 

नई दिल्ली, 21 सितम्बर , 1968 
एस० प्रो० 3558. - पंजाब पुनर्गठन अधिनियम , 1966 ( 1966 का 31 ) की धारा 79 की 
उपधारा ( 2 ) के खण्ड ( क ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार श्री बी . एस . 
बंसल , मुख्य इंजीनियर, हरयाणा सरकार , को श्री जे० एस० जैन के स्थान पर भाखड़ा प्रबंध बोर्ड 
का पूर्ण कालिक सदस्य , उस तारीख से निएक्त करती है जिस को श्री बी० एस० बंसल ऐसे सदस्य के 
रूप में कार्यभार ग्रहण करेंगे , और भारत सरकार के सिंचाई और विद्युत मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना 
सं० का० प्रा० 4628 तारीख 1 अक्तूबर, 1967 में निम्नलिखित संशोधन करती हैं अर्थात --- 

उक्त अधिसूचना में , मद 2 के सामने की विद्यमान प्रविष्ट के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टः 
रख दी जाएगी अर्थात - 

" 2. श्री बी० एस० बंसल मुख्य इंजीनियर हरयाणा सरकार । " 


एम० प्रसाद, अवर सचिव । 


Sec . 3 ( ti ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12 , 1968 / ASVINA 20 , 1890 


Sec. ) THE GAZETI 


4643 


New Delhi, the 24th September 1968 
S . O . 3559 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 13 of the Inter - State 
Water Disputes Act, 1956 ( 33 of 1956 ) . the Central Government, after consultation with 
tho State Governments, hereby makes the following Rules to amend tho Inter -State Water 
Disputes Rules, 1959, namely : 

THE INTER -STATE WATER DISPUTES (AMENDMENT) RULES, 1968 . 
These rules may be called the Inter -Stato Water Disputes (Amendment) Rules , 1968 . 

2 . For rulo 6 of tho Intor- State Water Disputes Rules, 1959 (hereinafter referred to 
as the said rules ) , the following rulc shall be substituted , namely : 
" 6 . Remuneration , allowances of fees. Wherc thọ Chairman or any member of a 

Tribunal retires from service as a Judge of the Supreme Court or a High 
Court while proceedings of a Tribunal are in progress, ho may be granted 
for the period he serves on the Tribunal, after retirement, such remunera 
tion , allowances or fees as may be sanctioned by the Central Goverpmont 

in consultation with the Chief Justice of India . 
Where an assessor is not a salaried officer of the Central or a State Government, 

he may be granted such remuneration , allowances or fees as may be 
sanctioned by the Central Government in consultation with the Chairman 

of tho Tribunal" . 
3 . In rule 7 of the said rules , for the words " Presiding Officer" , the word " Chairman 
shall be substituted . 

4 . In the Annexure to the said rules, for the words " Presiding Officer ", in the two 
places they occur , tho word " Chairman " shall be substitutod . 

INo. DW . II .32 (30 )/ 68 .) 
BALESHWAR NATH , Jt. Socy . 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 21st September 1968 
9 . 0 . 3560, - In exerciso of the powers conferred by scction 5 ( 1 ) of the Cinematograph 
Act. 1952 and sub - rule (3 ) of rule 9 read with sub - rule (2 ) of rule 9 and sub -rule ( 3 ) of 
Tule 8 of the Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules, 1958 , the Central Government hereby 
ro -appoints Smt. Padma K , Desal after consultation with the Central Board of Film Censors , 
as a member of the Advisory Panel of the said Board at Bombay with immediate effect. 

[No. F . 11 /2 /68- F (C ).] 
H . B . KANSAL , Under Secy . 


FTTI GIT TITT AZ 


He feest. 21 fahay, 1968 


SAS 3561-- - ffa fafia, 1952 T TTT 5 ( 1 ) TT TT ( ) 
F4hracit, 1958 FATTA 9 37 FATTA ( 2 ) te IT S GT ATT ( 3 ) # ATT GOTT 
नियम 9 के उपनियम ( 3 ) द्वारा दिये गये अधिकारों का प्रयोग करते हए , केन्द्रीय सरकार ने केन्द्रीय 
फिल्म सेंसर बोर्ड से परामर्श करके , श्रीमती पदमा के० देसाई को अभी से उतत बोर्ड के दम्बई सलाहकार 
मण्डल , का फिर से सदस्य नियुक्त किया है । 


[HELT 5187 11: 2, 68 .ITE ( :) ] 

त्रि बाबू कंसल, अवर सचिव । 


4644 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ ASVINA 20, 1890 [ PART II - - 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 

New Delhi, the 25th September 1988 
S . O . 3562.- - The Rajya Sabha having elected Shri Arjun Arora to be a member of tho 
Council in pursuance of clause ( k ) of sub- section ( 2 ) of section 31 of the Institutes of 
Technology Act, 1961 ( 59 of 1961 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the following 
amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the (late ) Ministry of 
Scientific Research and Cultural Affairs No. 24- 5 / 62 - T . 6 dated the 9th May, 1962 as 
amended by notification No. F. 24- 5 / 62- T . 6 , dated the 16th July , 1962 and notification 
No. F. 25- 3 / 63- T . 6. dated the 18th May, 1964 , namely : 
In the said notification under the heading " V . Representatives of Parliament" , in 

_ item ( k) , for the existing entry ( iii ), the following entry hall be substituted , 

namely : 
"(iii ) Shri Arjun Arora, Member, Rajya Sabha, 90, Shahjahan Road, New Delhi . 

INo. F.10-9 / 68- T.6.] 
G . N . VASWANI, Dy. Edi. Adviser (T). 


शिक्षा मंत्रालय 


नई दिल्ली, 25 सितम्बर , 1968 
एस० ओ० 3053 -- -इंस्टीट्यूट्स प्राफ टेक्नोलोजी ऐक्ट , 1961 ( 1961 का 59 ) , के 
खंड - 31 की धारा ( ट० ) की उप -धारा ( 2 ) के अनुसरण में राज्य सभा द्वारा श्री अर्जुन अरोड़ा को 
परिषद् के सदस्य चुने जाने पर , केन्द्रीय सरकार अधिसूचना संख्या 24 - 5/ 62 टी - 6 दिनांक 16 
जुलाई, 1962 और अधिसूचना संख्या 25 - 363 टी - 6 दिनांक 18 मई, 1964 द्वारा संशोधित , 
भारत सरकार के ( भूतपूर्व ) , वैज्ञानिक अनुसंधान तथा सांस्कृतिक का मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना 
संख्या 24 - 562 टी - 6 दिनांक 9 मई , 1932 में निम्नलिखिा संशोधन करती है , अर्थात : - -- 

उक्त अधिसूचा में , " V संनद के प्रतिनिधि " शीर्ष के अधीन मद (ट ) में विद्यमान प्रविष्ठि 

(iii ) के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित प्रविष्ठि लिख दी जाए , अर्थत् : --- 
"( iii ) श्री अर्जुन अरोड़ा सदस्य, राज्य सभा , 

90, शाहजहाँ रोड , नई दिल्ली । " 


[ संख्या एफ . 10 - 9/ 68/ टी - 6. ] 

जी० एन० वासवानी, 
उप शिक्षा सलाहकार ( टी . ) । 


उप 


DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS 

( P . & T. Board) 
New Delhi, the 24th September 1968 


S. 0 . 3564 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 8 of the India Post Office 
Act, 1898 ( 6 of 1898), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules further 
to amend the Indian Post Office Rules , 1933, namely : - - 
1. These rules may be called the Indian Post Office (Tenth Amendment) Rulos , 

1968 . 


SEC . 3 ( ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12 , 1968 / ASVINA 20 , 1890 


4645 


2 . In the Indian Post Office Rules, 1933 (hereinafter referred to as the said rules ), 

in rule 3 — 
(1) for the words " On an unpaid letter, postcard or packet" , the words " On an 

unpaid letter , letter card , postcard or packet" shall be substituted ; 
( il) for the words " On an insufficiently paid letter, postcard or packet", the words 

" On an insufficiently paid letter, letter card , postcard or packet" shall bo 

substituted . 
3 . In rule 10 - A of the said rules, for the words " Letter cards may be transmitted 

by post provided that postage is prepaid in full and nothing is attached to or 
enclosed in them :" , the words " Letter cards may be transmitted by post 
with or without pre-payment of postage provided that nothing is attached 

to or cnclosed in them :" shall be substituted . 
4 . In rule 10 - B of the said rules, in sub -sule (2 ), the words " or without postage 
having been prepaid " shall be omitted , 

[No. 3 / 1/ 68 -CI.) 
V . E . ARUNACHALAM , 

Director (Postal Technical). 


P . & T . Board ) 

New Delhi, the 25th September 1988 
S . O . 3565. - In pursuance of para (a ) of Section ITI of Rule 434 of Indian Telegraph 
Rules , 1951, 49 introduced by S . O . No . 627 dated 8th March , 1960 , the Director -General 
Posts and Telegraphs, hereby specifies the 16th October, 1968 as the date on which tho 
Measured Rate System will be introduced in Nanded Telephone Exchange, in Maharashtra 
Circle. 

[No. 5 -52 / 68-PHB (4).) 
S . O . 3566.- - Tt pursuance of para (a ) of Section IJT of Rulc 434 of India Telegraph 
Rules, 1951, as introduced by S .O . No . 627 dated 8th March , 1960 , the Director -General, 
Posts and Telegraphs , herehy specifies the 16th October , 1968 as the date on which the 
Measured Rate System will be introduced in Tiruverambur Telephone Exchange, in Madras 
Circle . 

[No. 5-49 /68 -PHB(9).] 

S . P . SRIVASTAVA , 
Asstt . Diroctor General ( PHB). 


संचार विभाग 

( 574 -77 ) 

faratt, 25 festa 1968 
ho to 3567 . - - FATT ACE # # # 4T 627 , fata 8 Ha, 1960) 
ART ATT # 2 og 1951 reg te faqat # fauh 434 

TTT (# ) 
अनुसार डाक -तार महानिदेशक ने नान्देद टेलीफोन केन्द्र में 16 - 10- 68 से प्रमाणित दर प्रणाली लाग 
करने का निश्चय किया है । 

[ 5-52/68 - fTo Tool 


PĦW O 3568 . --- FUTAT CU TEHT 627 , fata 
1960 ART YTT ff tū 1951 Att att forget # FITTA 434 F 15 1 


8 
7 


( 5 ) 


4646 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA : OCTOBER 12 , 1968 /ASVINA 20 , 1890 (Part II 


के अनुसार डाक -तार महानिदेशक ने तिस्रम्बूर टेलीफोन केन्द्र में 16-10-68 से प्रमापित दर 
प्रणाली लागू करने का निश्चय किया है । 

(805- 49/68 f7 170 sto ] 

स० प्र० श्रीवास्तव , 
सहायक महानिदेशक ( पी० एच० यो० ) । 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH , FAMILY PLANNING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT 

(Deptt. of Health and Urban Development) 

New Delhi, the 25th September 1968 
S . O . 3569 ,- Whereag Dr. D . N . Phukan , Director of Health Services and Director 
of Health Planning and Education , Assam has been nominated under clause ( h ) of section 3 
of the Pharmacy Act, 1948 ( 8 of 1948 ) by the Government of Assam to represent that 
State on the Pharmacy Council of India in the Vacancy caused by the resignation of Dr. 
T . Bhaskara Menon ; 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 3 of the said Act the Central Govern 
ment bereby makes the following further amendment in the notification of the Government 
of India in the late Ministry of Health No. F .7 - 23 /59 - D , dated the 21st December, 1959 , 
namely : 
in the said notification , under the heading " VI-Members nominatod by the Stato 

Governments undor clause ( h ) " , for the existing entry against serial No. 2 , 

the following entry shall be substituted , namely : 
" 2 . Dr. D . N . Phukan, Director of Health Services and Director of Health Planning 
and Education , Asgam ." 

INo. F .6 -26 /64-MPT.] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 24th September 1968 
S . O . 3570 . - Whereas the Government of India in the late Ministry of Health has, by 
notification No . 16 - 19 / 59 -MI, dated the 1st April, 1960 , made in exercise of the powers 
conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 14 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (102 of 
1956 ), recognised the medical qualification M . D . granted by the University of California 
for the purposes of the said Act. 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powerg conferred by the proviso to sub -section ( 1) 
of section 14 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ), the Central Govern 
pent hereby specifics a period of two years with effect from the date of issue of this 
order or so long as Dr. Jonathan Jenką Porter , who possesses tho said qualification , con 
tinues to be employed in the American Peace Corps, Calcutta Regional Office, Calcutta 
to which he is attached for the time being for the purposes of teaching , research or 
charitable work , whichever is shorter, as the period to which the medical practice of tho 
said Dr. Jonathan Jenks Porter shall be limited subject to the condition that the said 
doctor continues to be corolled as a medical practitioner for the said period in accordance 
with thc law regulating the registration of medical practitioner in his country . 

[No. F . 19 -34 /68-MPT .] 

K , DEO , Under Secy . 


(Deptt . of Health and Urban Development) 

New Delhi, the 27th September 1968 
S . O . 3571. — Whereas in pursuance of clause ( d ) of sub -section (2 ) of section 3 of the 
Preventiou of Food Adulteration , Act, 1954 ( 37 of 1954 ), the Central Government has 
nominated Col R , R , Rao , M . C ., Deputy Director (Food Inspection ), QMG s Branch , 


Sexc . 3 ( il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12, 1968 /ASVINA 20, 1890 


4047 


A 


Army Headquarters, New Delhi, as a member of the 
Standards vice Col. A . K , Jadeja ; 


Contral Committee for Food 


And whoreas in pursuanco of clause (e ) of sub -section (2 ) of section 3 of the said 
Act, the State Government of Andhra Pradesh have nominated Dr. T . Dharma Reddy , 
In-charge Government Analyst , Institute of Preventive Medicine, Hyderabad , as a member 
of the Central Committee for Food Standards representing that Government vice Shri 
M . Krishna Murthy; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 3 of 
the said Act, the Central Government hereby makes the following further amendments in 
the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Health No . SRO - 1236 
dated the 1st June , 1955_ namely :--- 


In the said notification : 
( a ) against itern 8, for the existing entry, the following entry shall be substituted , 

___ namely : 
" Col . R. R . Rao , M . C., Deputy Director ( Food Inspection) QMG s Branch, Army 

___ Headquarters , New Delhi ". 
(b ) against item 10 , for the existing entry, the following entry shall be substituted , 

namely : -- 
" Dr . T . Dharma Reddy , In-charge , Government Analyst, Institute of Preventive 
Medicine, Hyderabad. " 

No. F.14- 25 / 67-PH.] 
M . C . JAIN, Under Secy . 


( स्वास्थ्य एवं नगर विकास विभाग ) 


नई दिल्ली , 27 सितम्बर, 1968 


एम _ 357 ::-- - यतः खाद्य अपमिश्रण निवारण अधिनियम 195 4 ( 1954 का 37 ) की 
धारा 3 की उप-धारा ( 2 ) के खंड ( च ) का पालन करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार ने कर्नल ए० के० 
जदेजा के स्थान पर उप - निदेशक ( खाद्यनिरीक्षण ) ० एम० जी० प्रल, अार्मी हैडक्वार्टरर्स , 
नई दिल्ली के कर्नल पार० पार० राब, एम० मी० को केन्द्रीय खाद्य मानक सनिति के एक 
सदस्य के रूप में मनोनीत किया है । 

और यतः इस अधिनियम की धारा 3 की उपधारा 2 के खंड (ङ० ) का पालन करते हुए आन्ध्र 
प्रदेश राज्य सरकार ने राज्य सरकार के प्रतिनिधि के रूप में श्री कृष्ण मूर्ति के स्थान पर निरोधी चिकित्सा 
संस्थान ( इन्स्टीट्यूट प्रांफ प्रियेण्टिव मेडिसिन ) , हैदराबाद के प्रभारी सरकारी विश्लेषक डा० टी० धर्म 
रेड्डी को केन्द्रीय खाद्य मानक समिति में एक सदस्य के रूप में मनोनीत किया है ; 

अतः अब उपर्युक्त अधिनियम की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व स्वास्थ्य मंत्रालय अधिसूचना संख्या एस० 
प्रार० प्रो० 1236 दिनांक 1 जून, 1955 में आगे निम्नलिखित संशोधन करती है, नामतः उक्त अधि 
सूचना में : 

( क ) मद संख्या 8 के सामने वर्तमान प्रविष्टि के बदले निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टि रखी जाय , 
नामतः 

"कल आर० आर० राव, एम० सी०, उप निदेशक ( खाद्य निरीक्षण ) 

क्यू० एम० जी० ब्रांच , आर्मी हैडक्वार्टर्स , नई दिल्ली । " 


4648 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12, 1968 /ASVINA 20 , 1890 (PART II 


( ख ) मद संख्या 10 के सामने वर्तमान प्रविष्टि के बदले निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टि रखी जाय ; 
नामतः 
" To úto 

g et, 
T 47 fan44 , firent faft PET , ," 


[ jo 14 - 25 /07 - FTITE ] 

मोती चन्द्र जैन , अवर सचिव । 


( Departimont of Health and Urban Development) 

New Delhi, the 3rd October 1968 


9 . o . 3573 . – Whereas under sub -section ( 1) of section 77 of the Punjab Reorganisa 
tion Act, 1966 (31 of 1966 ) , the Central Government shall continue to provide facilities 
to the Governments of the States of Haryana and Punjab and the people of the said States 
and the territorics transferred to the Union territory of Himachal Pradesh in the Post 
Graduate lostitute of Medical Education and Research , Chandigarh (hereioafter referred 
to as the lostitute ) , for such period and upon such terms and conditions ( including those 
relating ti) auy contributions to be made for the provisions of such facilities ) as may be 
agreed upon between the Governments mçntioned in the said section before the 1st day of 
April, 1967 ; 


And whereas the Institute has been declared to be an institution of national import 
ance and constituted as a body corporate with effect from the 1st April 19 , 7. hy tho 
Post -Graduatc Institute of Medical Education and Research , Chandigarh Act, 1966 (51 of 
1966 ) , and under section 29 of the said Act, the Institute shall continue to provide facilities 
to the Governments of the States of Haryana and Punjab and the Central Government 
in relation to the Union territories of Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh and the people 
of the States add territories aforesaid for such period and upon such terms and condiliona 
( including those relating to any contributions to be made for the provision of such facilities) 
as may be agreed upon between the Institute and the Governments mentioned in the said 
section helore the 1st day of April , 1967; 


And wherças no agreements as aforesaid were reached before the 1st day of April. 
1967 ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 29 of the Post 
Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research , Chandigarh Act, 1966 (51 of 1966 ) . 
the Central Government hereby orders - - 
( a ) that para medical training programmes shall be continued by the Institute upto 

31st March , 1972 on thç same terms and conditions as were applicable to 

such training immediately before the 1st November , 1966 ; 
( b ) that the Goveraments of Haryana and Punjab and the Administrations of the 

Union Territories of Hinachal Pradesh and Chandigarh shall, on being 
informed by the Director of the Institute of the cost of such Para -medical 
training to be paid by the Governments and the Administrations conferred 
( which cost shall depend on the number of trainees from the said States and 
Administrations ) , pay the same within one month from the date of receipt 

of the intimation ; 
( c ) that the cost of maintenance of 120 beds in the hospital of the Institute shall 

be paid by the Government of Punjab and of 80 beds by the Government of 

Haryana at the rate of Rs. 5 , 800 per bed per annum ; 
( d ) that the cost of the para medical training and tho maintenance of beds as afore 

said under clauses (b ) and ( c ) for the period commencing on and from the 
1st of November, 1966 to the 31st March, 1967 shall be paid by the Govern 
ments of Punjab and Haryana to the Central Government and for the succeed 
iny years, thc said cost shall be paid by the Governments of Punjab and 
Haryana and the Administrations of Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh to 
the Institute . 

[No. F .1 -20 / 67 -ME ( PG ) 
R . N , MADHOK , Jt. Secy . 


SEC. 3 ( 1 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12, 1968 / ASVINA 20 , 1890 4 649 

- - -- - - 
( स्वास्थय एवं नगर विकास विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली , 3 अक्टूबर 1968 
ए० प्रो० 3574.- - यत : पंजाब पुनर्गठन अधिनियम , : 966 ( 1966 का 31 ) की 
धारा 77 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के अधीन केन्द्रीय सरकार, हरयाणा और पंजाब के राज्यों की सरकारों 
को तया उक्त्त राज्यों की ओर हिमाचल प्रदेशा संघ राज्य क्षेत्र को अन्तरित क्षेत्रों की जनता 
को चिकित्सा शिक्षा एवं अनुसंधान स्नातकोत्तर संस्थान चण्डीगत में (जिरे एतस्मिन् पश्चात् संस्थान 
कहा गया है ) उस अवधि तक और उन निबन्धनों और शर्ती पर ( जिनके अन्तर्गत ऐसी सुविधाओं 
के उपबन्ध के लिए किए जाने वाले किन्हीं अभिदायों से सम्बन्धित निबन्धन और शत पाती हैं ) 
सुविधाएं प्रदान करती रहेगी जिन पर उपत्त धारा में वर्णित सरकारों के बीच 1967 को प्रक्षेल , की पहली 
तारीख से पूर्व करार हो जाएं : 

और यतः चिकित्सा शिक्षा एवं अनुसंधान स्नातकोत्तर संस्थान , चण्डीगढ़ अधिनियम , 1966 
( 1966 का 57 ) द्वारा यह संस्थान 1 अप्रैल , 16 से राष्ट्रीय महत्व की संस्था घोषित कर दिया 
गया है और इसे निगमित निकाय के रूप में गठित कर दिया गया है तथा रक्त्त अधिनियम की 
धारा 29 के अधीन यह संस्थान हरयाणा और पंजाब के राज्यों को सरकारी को था चपाईगढ़ और 
हिमाचल प्रदेश के संघ राज्य क्षेत्रों के सम्बन्ध में केन्द्रीय सरकार को प्रो पॉक्त राज्यों और संघ 
राज्य क्षत्र की जनता को उतनी अवधि के लिए और उन निबन्धनों, और शती पर ( जिन के 
अन्तर्गत ऐसी सुविधाओं के उपबन्ध के लिए किए जाने वाले किन्हीं अभिदाय से सम्बन्धित निबन्धन 
और शर्ते पाती हैं ) , जिन पर इस संस्थान और उक्त्त धारा में कांगत सरकारों के बीच 1967 की 
अप्रैल , की पहली तारीख से पूर्व कतार हो जाए, सुविधाएं प्रदान करता रहेग । । 


और यतः 1967 की अप्रैल , की पहली तारीख से पूर्व यथा पूर्वक्त्ति कोई कसर नहीं हए थे । 


अतः अब चिकित्सा शिक्षा एवं अनुसंधान रातकोत्तर संरथ न , सण्डीगढ़ अधिनियम , 1966 
( 1966 का 51 ) की धारा 29 की द्वारा प्रदत्त शत्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद् 
द्वारा आदेश करती है कि : 

( क ) यह संस्थान पैरा-चिकित्सा-प्रशिक्षण कार्यक्रम को 31 मार्च, 1972 तक उन्हीं 

निबन्धनों और शती पर चलाता रहेगा जो पहली नवम्बर , 1966 से अब यहित 
पूर्व ऐसे प्रशिक्षण पर लागू होती थी ; 
हरयाणा और पंजाब की सरकारें तथा हिमाचल प्रदेश और चण्डीगढ़ के मंत्र राज्य 
क्षेत्रों के प्रशासन , संपृक्त्त सरकारों तथा प्रशासनों द्वारा दिए जाने वाले ऐसेरा 
चिकित्सा -प्रशिक्षण -व्यय के बारे में जो उक्त्त राज्यों और प्रशासनों से आने वाले 
प्रशिक्षणार्थियों की संख्या पर निर्भर करेगा ) संस्थान के निदेशक द्वारा सूचित 
किए जाने पर , उसका संदाय सूचना प्राप्ति की तारीख से एक महीने के भीतर कर 

देंगे ; 
( ग ) इस संस्थान के अस्पताल में 120 पलंगों को बनाए रखने का खर्च पंजाब सरकार 

तथा 80 पलंगों को बनाए रखने का खर्च हरयाणा सरकार 5, 800 रुपये प्रति 

पलंग प्रति वर्ष की दर पर देनी ; 
( घ ) खण्ड ( ख ) और ( ग ) के स्पधीन यथार्वोक्त पैरा -चिकित्सा-प्रशिक्षण तथा 

पलंगों को बनाए रखने पर 1 नवम्बर , 1966 की और से लेकर 31 मार्च, 


4650 


THE GAZETIE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12 , 1968/ ASVINA 20 , 1890 [ PART II 


1967 तक की कालाजधि में हुमा खर्व पंजाब और हरियाणा की सरकारें केन्द्रीय 
सरकार को गी तथा उत्तरवर्ती वर्षों के लिए उक्त्त खर्चपंजाब और हरयाणा की 
सरकारों तथा हिमाचल प्रदेश और चण्डीगढ़ के प्रशासनों द्वारा इस संस्थान को 
दिया जायेगा । 

[ सं० फा० 1 - 20/67 - चि०शि०( स्नातकोत्तर )] 

र० न० मधोक, संयुक्त सचिव । 


पद्रोलियम और रसायन मंत्रालय 

( रसायन विभाग ) 


नई दिल्ली , 17 अप्रैल 1968 


एप० प्रो० 3575 - -सोरा नियंत्रण आदेश , 1961 को धारा 11 की उप -धारा ( 2 ) के 
अनसार केन्द्रीय सरकार निदेश देती है कि उक्त धारा की उप -धारा ( 1 ) के उपबन्ध प्रान्ध्र 
प्रदेश राज्य में 17 अप्रैल , 1968 से लागू होंगे । 

[ सं 4 / 19/ 68/ केभी - 1 ] 
एस० रामकृष्णय्या , संयुक्त सचिव । 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR , EMPLOYMENT AND REHABILITATION 

(1) epurtment of Labour and Employment) 


New Delhi, the 24th September 1968 
S . O . 3576 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer and the 
majority of the employces in relation to the establisliment known as Messrs Mana Tools 
Private Limited, Factory and Registered Office, Gamadevi Road , Bhandup , Bombay - 78 , 
have agreed that the provisious of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952 ) , 
should be made applicablc to the said establishment; 


Now, therefore, in cxercise of the powers conferred by sub-section ( 4 ) of section 1 of 
the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the said Act to 
the said stablishment. 
This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 31st March 1968. 

INo. 8 / 123 / 68 / PF - II .] 


New Delhi, the 27th September 1968 


S . O . 3577. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1) of section 13 of tho 
Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952 ), and in supersession of the notification 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation 
(Department of Labour and Employment ) No. S . O . 741 , dated the 28th February 1966 , the 
Central Government hereby appoints Shri N . T . Kuruvilla to be an Inspector for the whole 
of the State of Kerala and the Mahe Area of the Union Territory of Pondicherry for the 
purposes of the said Act or of any scheme framed thereunder , in relation to any establish 
ment belonging to , or under the control of the Central Government, or in relation to any 
establishment connected with a railway company , a maior port, a mine or an oil field , or a 
controlled industry . 

INo . 18( 20 ) / 68- PF -I( iii ).] 


Sec . 3 (li) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12 , 1968 /ASVINA 20 , 1890 


4651 


New Delhi, the 5th October 1968 
S . O . 3578 . -- Whereas it appears to the Central Government that tho employer and the 
majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs Spanto Textiles , 
Gopal Bagh Ghodbunder Road , Goregaon , Bombay - 44 have agreed that tho provisions of 
the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the 
said establishment: 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 4 ) of Section 1 
of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies thc provisions of the said Act 
to the said establishmont. 

This notification shall be doemed to have come into force on the 30th day of September , 
1967 . 

[No. 8 / 183 /67 -PF. II .) 
DALJIT SINGH , Under Secy. 


of the power1948 ), the cation of this shit re 


(Departmeot of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 26th September 1968 
9 .0 . 3579. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (2 ) of section 26 of 
the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 ( 11 of 1948), the Central Government hereby directs that, 
for a period of three years from the date of publication of this notification , the provisions 
of sub - section ( 3 ) of section ( 18 ) of the said Act, in so far as it relates to the issue of 
wage slips shall not apply to the employees of the Military Engineering Service and the 
Military Farms, who are on time scale of pay approved by the Central Government and 
are employed in any scheduled employment, 

[No . LWI (I) 8 (3)/66 .] 


S .O . 3580. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 , read with section 9 of 
the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 ( 11 of 1948), and in supersession of the notification of 
the Government of India in tho late Ministry of Labour, S . R . O . 2088 dated the 21st June. 
1954, the Central Government hereby appoints an Advisory Board consisting of the 
following menhers Cor the purpose of co -ordinating the work of committees and sub 
comınittees appointed uncler section 5 of thic said Act and for advising the Central Govern 
ment generally in the matter of fixing and revising minimum rates of wages in respect of 
the scheduled employments carried on by or under the authority of the Central Government 
and appoints Shri O . Venkatachalam as Chairman thereof, namely : 

I. Independent Members 
( !) Shri O . Venkatachalam , Chief labour Commissioner (Central), New Delhi 

Chairinan . 
(2 ) Shri K . K . Bhatia , Director , Labour Bureau , Simla . 
(3 ) Dr. J. N . Sinha, Senior Fellow , Institute of Economic Growth , University 

Enclave , Delhi- 7 . 
JI, Representatives of Employers 
(1 ) Shri S . Devanath , Deputy Secretary to the Government of India , Ministry of 

Defence , New Delhi. 
(2) Shri B . K . Mitra , Joint Director, Civil Engineering, Railway Board , Ministry of 

Railways , New Delhi. 
( 3) Shri R . T . D . Joseph , Deputy Secretary to the Government of India , Ministry 

of Works, Housing and Supply , (Works Division ), New Delhi. 
(4 ) Shri K . Narayanan , Deputy Secretary to the Government of India , Ministry of 

Transport and Shipping ( Transport Wing ), New Delhi. 
(5) Shri P . C . Gera, Deputy Director General, State Farms, Department of 

Agriculture , New Delhi, 


TU . Representatives of Employces 
(1 ) Shri N . N , Manna , General Secretary , C .P . W . D . Workers Union , Chhai Tooti, 

Paharganj, New Delhi. 
(2 ) Shri Sisir Kumar Ganguly , General Secretary, National Union of Jule Workers. 

177 / B Acharya Jagdish Bose Road, Calcutta - 14. 


4652 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 12 , 1968/ ASVINA 20 , 1890 [PART II . 


(3 ) Shri C . M , Stephen , President, Indian National Trade Union Congress, Kerala 

Branch , XXII /299A , Mahatma Gandhi Road , Ernakulam . 
( 4 ) Shri Sagar Ram Gupta , General Secretary , Indian National Trade Union 

Congress, Haryana Branch, Textile Mazdoor Sangh , Lokar Bazar , Bhiwani 

(Hissar ). 
(5 ) Shri S . R . Kulkarni, President, All India Port and Dock Workers Federation , 
P . D Mello Bhavan, 167, P . D Mello Road, Bombay - 1. 

[No. LWI-I-6 (15)/ 68.) 


S . O , 3581. — In exercise of the powers conferred hy clause (a ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of 
section S , and section 9 , of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 (11 of 1948) and in partial 
modification of the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Labour 
and Employment No. S . O . 2032 dated the 23rd September , 1958 , the Central Government 
hereby appoints a Committee consisting of the following members to hold enquiries and 
advise the Central Government regarding 

(a ) the fixation of minimum rates of wages for the first time under the gald Act , and 
(b ) the revision of minimum rates of wages already fixed by the Central Govern 

ment under the said Act, 
in respect of the scheduled employment on the construction or maintenance of ronds or 
in building operations and stone -breaking or stone- crushing, and appoints Shri 
O . Venkatachalam as the Chairman thereot, namely — 


1. Independent Members 
1. Shri 0 . Venkatachalam , Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) New Delhi 

Chairman. 
2 . Shri K . K . Bhatia , Director, Labour Bureau , Simla . 


II. Representatives of Employers 
1. Shri Hazari Lal Marwah , Prosident Central Builder Association , 14 , Regal 

Building, Connaught Place , New Delhi. 
2 . Shri R . T . D . Joseph , Deputy Secretary to the Government of India , Ministry 

of Works, Housing and Supply, (Department of Works and Housing), New 

Delhi. 
3. Shri Tirath Prakash , Deputy Director , Civil Engineering , Ministry of Railways, 

(Railway Board ), New Delhi. 
4. Shri S . R . Somadder , Senior Surveyor of Works, Engineer - in - Chief" Branch , 

Army Headquarters , New Delhi. 
Ill. Representatives of Employees 
1. Shri Sat Pal Bhushan , President, Indian National Trado Union Congress 

Punjab Branch , 1130 , Sector 21 -B , Chandigarh . 
2. Shri D . Durgawat, General Secretary , Indian National Trade Union Congre8 

Rajasthan Branch , Ahar Road , Udaipur. 
3 . Shri S . P . Singh , Polytechnic Road , Dhanbad . 
4. Shri N . N , Manna, General Secretary , C . P . W . D . Workers Union , Chhal Tooth, 

Main Bazar, Paharganj, New Delhi- 55 . 
2 . In pursuance of rule 6 of the Minimum Wages (Central) Rules, 1950 , the Central 
Government hereby appoints the Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central) to botho 
Secretary of the said Committee . 

[No. LWI-I-6 (21)/68.) 
C . R . NAIR , Under Secy . 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 28th September 1968 
S. O . 3582 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - sections (3 ) and (4 ) of section 
SA of tht Dock Workers ( Regulation of Employment ) Act, 1948 ( 9 of 1948 ) , the Central 


SEC . 3 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : OCTOBER 12 , 1968 /ASVINA 20 , 1890 


4653 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Government hereby appoints the following persons as mombers of the Vizagapotam Doct 
Labour Board , and nominates Shri H . Sambamurti as Chairman thereof, namely : 
Meinbers representing the Central Government : 

( 1) Shi H . Sambamurti, Chairmau . Visakhapatnam Pour Trust, Visakhapatnanam . 
(2 ) The Deputy Chairman , Vizagapatam Dock Labour Board , Visakhapatnam . 
(3 ) The Regional Assistant Commissioner of Labour, Visakhapatnam . 
(4 ) The Assistant Labour Commissioner ( C ). Visakhapatnam . 


Members representing the Dock Workers : 

(1 ) Shri P . Manavallayra Naidu Representative of the Port Khalasis Union , 
( 2 ) Shri Adla Räjarao , Representative of the oPrt Khalasis Union . 
(3 ) Shri Medida Suryanarayana , Representative of the Port Khalasis Union . 

(4 ) Shri B . G . M . A . Narasinga Rao , Representative of the Dock Workers Union. 
Members representing the Employers of Dock Workers and Shipping Companies : 

(1 ) Shri K . S . Dutt, Representative of the Visakhapatnam Stevedores Association . 
(2 ) Shri B . Banerjee, Representative of the Visakhapatnam Stevedores Association . 
(3 ) Shri V . V . Rau , Representative of the Indian National Stcamsbip Ownors 

Association . 
(4) Shri H . 0 . Pereira, Representative of the Overseas Shipping Interests , 

(No . 56 / 1 /68 -Fac . II.) 
New Delhi, the 4th October 1968 
S . O . 3583.- - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (1) of section 4 of 
the Dock Worker s (Regulation of Employment) Act, 1948 (9 of 1948 ), the Central 
Government hereby makes the following Scheme further to amend the Vizagapatam Dock 
Workers (Regulation of Employmcot) Scheme, 1956 , the same having been previously 
published as required by the said sub- soction , namely : 

1. This Scheme may be called the Vizagapatam Dock Workers (Regulation of Employ 
ment) Third Amendment Scheme, 1968 . 

2 . In Claust 10 of the Vizagapatam Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) 
Scheme, 1959 , after item (e ), the following item shall be inserted , namely : 
" (f) make appointments to the posts the maximum salary of which exclusive of 
allowances is not more than five hundred and seventyfive rupees per month ." 

(No. 65 / 10 / 68 -Fac. II .) 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 28th September 1968 
S . O . 3584. - Whereas an industrial dispute between the management of 11 stevedores, 
Stevedores Association and the Vizagapatam Dock Labour Board of Visakhapatnam Port, 
and their workmen was referred for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, Hyderabad 
and its award was published with the notification of the Govemment of India in the 
Ministry of Labour, Eniployment and Rehabilitation (Deptt. of Labour and Employment) 
No. S .O . 2216 dated the 12th June , 1968 ; 

And , whçrças in the opinion of the Central Government, difficulties have arisen as to 
the intepretation of the said award in respect of tho question specificd in the Schedulo 
hereto Annexed ; 

Now , thereforc , in exercise of the powers conferred by Sections 7A , and 36A of tho 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government herehy constitutes an 
Industrial Tribunal of which Shri M . Najmmuddin shall be the Presiding Officer with 
headquarters at Hyderabad and refers the said question for decision to that Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 
Having regard to the directions contained in paragraph 17 of the Award dated 

the 24th May 1968 of the Industrial Tribunal, Hyderabad published in the 
Gazette of India , Part II Section 3 , Sub -scction (i ) under S . O . 2216 dated 
12th June, 1968, whether the tonnago involved in the vessels which load oro . 


4654 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12 , 1968 /AŞVINA 20 , 1890 [T ART II 


by skips and cranes with the help of signalmen / tippers, tindal and sometimes 
with trumming gangs should be deemed to be the tonnage handled for the 
purpose of bonus and if so , on what basis thc calculation should be done. 

[No. 29 / 31 /68 -LR. LLI.] 
New Delhi, the 7th October, 1968 
S . O . 3589 . - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an Industrial dispute 
oxists between the employers in relation to Messrs croutta Licensed Measurers , Calcutta and 
their workmen in respect of the matter specificd in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said disputo 
for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of 
section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby 
refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
Calcutta , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the clerical and mechanical staff under the Calcutta Licensed Measurers, 

P - 78 , Garden Reach Road , Kidderpore , Calcutta - 43 are entitled to sick leave 
at the rate of one month in a year ? If not, to what relief are the workmcn 
concerned entitled ? 

[No. 28 (66 ) / 68 -LRIII.) 


9 . 0 . 3586 .. Whereas tho Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dispute 
exists between the cmployers in relation to Bombay Port Trust, Bombay and their workmen 
in respect of the inutters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to rofor the said dispute 
for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of 
section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ), tho Central Government hereby 
refers the said dispule for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay constituted under 
section 7A of the said Act. 

DULE 
Whether the claims of Sarvashri G . D . More and Syed Jaffer for promotion as 

Section Leader were uniustifiahly overlooked by the Bomb: y Port Trust in 
the past ? If so , to what relief ase they entitled ? 

(No. 28(9) / 63-1.RITI.) 
$ 0 . 3587 .- _ IV - rps the Industrial Dispute sucrifiant in thr, Sihedulc hcrcto nnexed 
is pendina bofor the Presiding Officer, Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbod ; 

And whereas for the cnds of justice and convenience of parties , the disputo specificd in 
the Schedule hereto annexed should he disposed of without further delay ; 

Now . therefore , in cxercise of the mower : conferred by 9.15 -section ( 1) of section 
371 of hc Truyatrist Disputes Act , 1947 ( 1.1. of 1917), tlc Contral Government herehv with 
draws the procatings in tlation to the said disnite from the Industrial Tribiinal, Dhanbad 
and transfera thoorn in the Indistrial Tribunal, Calcutta consituted under grction 7A of the 
Industria ) Disp ites Act , 1947 , with the direction that the said Tribunal shall procuci with the 
said proceedings from the stage at which they are transferred to it and dispose of the same 
according to law , 

SCHIUDULE 


$ 1. 
No. 


Parties to the dispute 


No: and date of refer - S . O . No. of 
ence to the Ind strial Gazette 
Tribinal & ver of 

publication 


28 (47 )/68- LRINI 


2598 / 1968 


I Calcutta Port Commissioners, Calcutta and their 

workmen , 


9 - 7 - 1968 


[No. 28 (47) /68 - LRIII.] 
C . RAMDAS, Under Secy . 


- 


- 


- 


Sec . 3 (1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12 , 1968 /ASVINA 20 , 1890 4655 

— - - 
(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 3rd October 1968 
S . O . 3388. - - In pursuance of Sub-section (1 ) of Section 14 , Sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 
15, Sections 16 , 17 and 18 of the Personal Injuries (Compensation Insurance) Act , 1963 
(37 of 1963 ), and in supersession of the notification of Government of India in the 
Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employ 
ment) No . S . O . 2120 dated the 17th June , 1967, the Central Government hereby authorisos 
the officers specified in column ( 1 ) of the Schedule below to exercise all or any of tho 
powers under the Sections of the said Act mentioned in corresponding entrics in column 
( 2 ) of the said Schedule within the areas specified against them in column (3 ) thereof. 

SCHEDULE 


Officers 


Sections 


Areas 


- 


- 


Throughout the State of Kerala : 


( 1) Chicf Inspector of Factories , 14 (1), 15( 1), 16 , 17 

Kerala State appointed under Sec - and 18 . 
cion 8 ( 2 ) of the Factories Act , 1948 
(63 of 1948 ) , 


Do. 


Do . 


( 2 ) Chief Inspector of Plantations , 

Kottayam appointed under sec 
tion 4 ( 1 ) of the Plantations Labour 
Act, 1951 (69 of 1951 ). 


14 and 15 


( 3 ) Regional Inspectors of Factories 

and Inspectors of Factorics ap 
pointed under Section 8 ( 1 ) of the 
Factories Act, 1948 (63 of 1948 ) . 


Within their 

dictions. 


respective jurig 


( 4 ) Inspectors appointed inder Sec - 14 and 15 

tion 4 ( 1 ) of the Plantations 
Labour Act, 1951 (69 of 1951). 


Within their respective 

dictions. 


jourg 


(No. 3 /40 / 66 -Spl.Fao. II.) 
N . N . CHATTERJEE , Joint Secy . 


(Department of Labou und Employment) 


ORDERS 
New Delhi, the 26th September 1968 


S . O . 2589 ,-— Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial disput. 
exists between the employers in relation to the Bhowra Colliery of Messrs Karamchand 
Thapar and Brothers (Private ) Limited , Central Office , Bhowrà , Post Office Bhowra 
( Dhanbad ) and their worlmci in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto 
andexed ; 


And whereas the Central Government considers it clesirable to refer the said dispute 
for adjudication ; 

Now , thercfore , in exercise of the powri s conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) 
of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 19: 47 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government 
hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal (No. 2 ) , 
Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 


4656 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12, 1968/ ASVINA 20, 1890 (PART II.-- 


SCHEDULE 
Whether tho management of Bhowra Colliery of Messi s Karamchand Thapar and 
Brothers (Privato ) Limited , Central Office , Bhowro , Post Office Bhowra ( Dhanbad ) 18 
justified in suspending the following workmen for tho period shown against cach of them ? 


$ 1. 
No . 


Name of worker and designation 


Period of suspension 


I Shri Satai Rabidas , 


Pick Miner 


. 


. 


. 27 - 9 - 1967 to 2 - 10 - 1967 and 

3-6 -1998 to 4-6- 1968. 


nie 


Do , 


Do. 


2 Shri Ram thari Gope 
3 Shri Ramcharan Gargria 
4 Shri Somu Chowdhury 


Do. 
Do. 


. 


5 Shri Ramdular Jaiswara , Do. 


Do . 
. 2 - 10 - 1967 Ad from 3-6 - 1968 to 

9 - 6 - 1968 , 
- 30 - 9 - 1967 to 2 - 10 - 1967 and 

24 - 6 - 1968 ( 0 28 - 6 - 1968. 
: 27 - 9 - 1967 to 4 - 10 - 1967 . 
. 24 - 9 - 1967 to 3 - 10 - 1967 . 
. 7 - 11 - 1967 to 16 - 11 - 1967. 
--- - - - - - - 

- - 


6 Shri Monohar Passi, Do. 
7 Shri Peyara Lal Kand 1, Onsetter 
$ Shri Ramfer Jaiswara , Pick Miner 


: 
. 
. 


: 
. 
. 


If not, to what relief are the 


workmen entitled ? 


[No. 2 / 128 /68 -LRII .] 
S . O . 3590 . - -Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial disputo 
oxists between the employers in relation to the Kharkharec Colliery of Messrs Bharat 
Mining Corporation Limited , Post Office Kharkharco District Dhanbad 
xad their workmen in respect of the matters specified in tho Schedule hcreto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said dispute 
for adjudication ; 

Now , thereforc , in exercise of the powers conferred by clausc ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) 
of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government 
hereby refers the said disputo for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal (No. 3 ) , 
Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of tho said Act, 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the action of the management of Kharkhareo Colliery of Messrs Bharat 
Mining Corporation Limited , Post Office Kharkharco, District Dhanbad was justified in 
refusing employment to Shri Madan Singh , Fitter Helper , with effect from the 14th 
aly , 1968 ? " If not, to what relief in the workman entiled ? 

[No. 2 / 159 /68-LRIL ) 
New Delhi, the 3rd October 1968 
80 . 3591, - - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dis 
Tuto exists between the employers in relation to tho Khas Nirsha Colliery , Post Offico 
Nirghachatti (District Dhanbad) and their workmen in respect of the mattery specified 
1 the Schedule hereto annoxed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirablo to refer tho said disputo 
for adjudication ; 

Now , thereforo. In exerciso of the powers conferred by clauso (d ) of sub -section ( 1 ) 
of acction 10 of tho Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government 
hereby refers tho said dispute for adjudication to tho Industrial Tribunal (No. 3 ), Dhanbad , 
constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether tho claim of the workman , Shri B . B . Şar, Electric Supervisor of Khas 

Nirsha Colliery for A Grade Scale of pay as recommended by the Central 
Wago Board for Coal Industry is justified ? If so , to what relief is he 
cotitled ? 

[No. 2 / 132 /68-LRII. ) 


- - 


- 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12 , 1968 /ASVINA 20 , 1890 4657 
- - - - - - - - - - 

New Delhi, the 4th October 1968 
S. O . 3592. Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dispute 
exists between the employers in relation to the management of P . D . Kajora Colliery , 
Post Office Kajoragram , District Burdwan and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said disputo 
for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exerciso of the powers conferred by clausc ( d ) of sub-section ( 1 ) 
of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government 
hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , 
constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
Whtther the management of P . D . Kajors Cajery , Post Office Kajoragram , Djstrict 
Burdwan es justified in not allowing 111 workmen mentioned in the list helow to work 
on the 2nd February , 1968 , 3rd February , 1968 and 5th February , 1968, and not paying 
them wages for the said datcs : 


Names 


Designation 


Malkatta 


Iss 


I . Parichhan Kohar 
2 . Bindeshwari Singh 
3 . Jayshree Singh 
4 Tun T : Muria . 
5 . Vikram Chamar . 
6 . Rudal K har 
7 . Vishwa Mat! Jarijan 
8 . Ramlakhan I Tarijan 
9 . Hsku Miva . 
To , Gafur Miya 
II , Tantari va 
J2 . Ruran Parijan 
13 . Rerjer M12 
14 . Tilak Kihar 

Baijnatlı Harijan 
16 Purnalin : : Kolar 
17. Satva Narayan Kahar 
18 . Dilla Mi , . 
19. Lily Ray . 
20. Najmun Miya 
21. Ali Sher Miya 
22, Hujan Kuhar . 
23 . Basudcy Kahar 
24 . Salin Miya , 
25 . Jalim Harijan 
. 26 . Naru Ray 
27 . Kighni Nonia 
28 . Musai Gour 
29 . Ram Nath Harijan 
30 . Chhattu Harijani 
31. Babban Sah . 
32 . Munsi Sah 
33 . Gamha Kahar 
34 . Amir Miya . 

Habjb 
Chokath Singh 
Ramaudb Kahar 
Bulan Miya . 
Pabaru Harijac , 

Ish Mohammad Miya 
41. Sukai Kahar , 
42 , Sobrati Miya . 

TujaniKohar 

Raja Singh 
45. Sedgu Harijan , 


ថាពីតា។ 


- 43 


4658 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20 , 1890 (PART II — 


Names 


Designation 


Tranmer 


47 . 


............... 


rface Trammer: 


46 . Jamdar Miya 

Ramdas Gop 
48 . Biggu Singh 

Sukhari Singh 
Sajjan Sah 
Jagat Singh 
Dipan Singh , 
Narayan Singh 

Sudhai Kalar 
55, Sevak Harijan , 

Rameshwar Napit 
57 . Ramjec Pandey 

Kalo Bouri , 
59. Abhoy Bouri , 
60 . Parasadi Turt . 
61, Nageshwar Singh 
62 , Budhari Gop , 
67. Chandi Kahar 
64 . Sugdev Singh 

Moti Chand Singh 

Shakti Gop 
67 . Surendra Gop 
68 . Jahaji Bouri . 
69. Bagani Bouri , 
70 . Gena Bouri . 
71. Binath Dom . 
72 . Bhola Singh , 
73 . Nafar Dom , 
74 . Kali Kora 
75 . Bhikha Bouri . 
76 , Banka Bouri . 

Indra Singh . 
78 . Paral Bagdi . 
79 . Rashu Kora 
8o . Jittan Majhi 

Indu Kora 
82 , Siva Dom 
83 . Kura Dom 

Noona Dom 
85. Nepal Dom , 
86 . Robi Bouri , 
87. Suſar Dom i 
88. Khandi Bouri 
89. Sutli Bouri 
90 . Lakhia Mochi 
91, Nooni Bouri , 
92. Mukhda Kora 
93 . Jamuna Kora 
94 . Joli Bouri 
95. Subhadra Mahato 

Rabi Bouri , 
97, Moti Boliri . 
98 , Havahi Bouri , 
99. Geni Bolsi . 
100 . Sushti Don . 
IOI. Gour Dom . 
102. Santo Bouri , 
103 . Sundari Bouri , 
104 . Achali Bouri . 
IOS. Punti Bagdi 
106 , Kalipadu Mondul 
107. Ranidev Kahur 
108 . Bhola Ankuria 
109 . Burani Singh 
IIO . Banku Akuria 
II1. Jarklandi Singh 


81. 


Leader 


84. 


............................................... 


96, 


King Cuis 


Mir ? Sarlac 
Ficter ist 
l itter 2012 


. 


. 


. 


. 


- . 


- 


- - - - 


- - 


If not , to what relief are the workmcn client i 


[No. 6 / 48 /68-LRII.): 


Sec. 3 ( ü )] THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : OCTOBER 12 , 1968 / ASVINA 20, 1890 


4659 


SS 


S. O . 3593. - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dispute 
exists between the employers in relation to the Ballarpur. Colliery of Messrs . Ballarpur 
Collieries Company, Bisgessor House , Temple Road, Nagpur and their workmen in respect 
of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said dispute 
for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in cxercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub -section ( 1 ) 
of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government 
hereby rcfers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Government Industrial 
Tribunal, Bombay , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the management of Ballarpur Colliery of Messrs. Ballarpur Collieries Company, 
Nagpur was justified in terminating the services of Shrimati Santi Sammoo , Wagon Loading 
Reja with effect froin the 27th May, 1968 ? If not, to what relief is she cotitled ? 

[No . 3 / 13 / 68-1-RII.) 
New Delhi, the 5th October, 1968 
S . O . 3594. - Whereas an industrial dispute exists between the employers in relation 
to the Banki Colliery of Messrs National Coal Developmçnt Corporation Limited , Post 
Office Bapki Mogra , District Bilaspur (Madhya Pradesh ) and thcir workman Shri Janak 
Ram Markam , Trolly Fitter ; 

And whereas , the said employers and the workman have by a written agreement, 
in pursuance of the provisions of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 10A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , referred the said dispute to arbitration by the person specified 
therçin , and a copy of the said arbitration agreement has been forwarded to tho Central 
Government ; 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of sub -section (3 ) of section 10A 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) the Central Government hereby publishes , 
the said arbitration agreement , which was received by it on the 19th September , 1968. 

AGREEMENT 
(Under Section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ) . 

BETWEEN 
Names of the Parties. 

Representing Employers. - - Shri S . P . Mathur, Dy. Supit. of Collieries . Banki Colliery 
of M / s. N . C . D . C . Ltd ., P . O , Banki Mogra (Distt. Bilaspur) M . P . 

Representing Workman . - Shri Janakram Markam , C / 0 , M .P . Colliery Workers Federa 
tion , Qr. No. 34 / 1, Banki Mogra , P .O . Banki Mogra (Distt . Bilaspur ). 

It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following industrial dispute to the 
arbitration of Shri V . P . Pratap , Assistant Labour Commissioner ( Central) , Jabalpur . 

( i ) Specific matters in dispute . — Whether retrenchment of Shri Janak Ram Markam , 
Trolly Fitter (Cat. IV of L . A . T . Award ), Banki Colliery of Messrs National Coal Devclop 
ment Corporation Ltd ., with effect from 3rd September 1966 was legal and justified ? If 
not, to what relief is he entitled ? 

( ii) Details of the parties to the dispute including the name and address of the establish 
ment or undertaking involved . — Employers in relation to the Banki Colliery of M / s . National 
Coal Development Corporation Limited, P . O . Banki Mogra ( Distt. Bilaspur) M . P . and 
their workman , Shri Jagak Ram Markam , Trolly Fitter (Cat. IV of the L . A . T . Award ) . 

( iii) Name of the workman in case he himself is involved in the dispute or the name 
of the union , if any , representing the workman or workmen in question . — Shri Janak Ram 
Markam . 

( iv ) Total number of workmen employed in the undertaking affected . — 1250. 
( v ) Estimated number of workmen affected or likely to be affected by the dispute - - f . 
We further agree that the decision of the Arbitrator shall be binding on us. 

The arbitrator shall make his award within a period of 3 months or within such further 
time as is extended by the mutual agreement between us in writing. In case the award 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12 , 1968 / ASVINA 20 , 1890 [PART JI 


is not made within tho period aforementioned , the reference to arbitration shall stand 
automatically cancelled and we shall be frco to negotiate for fresh arbitration . 
Representing Employers. 

Representing Workman . 
( Sd .) S . P . MATHUR, 

( $ d . ) JANAK RAM MARKAM , 
1 - 9 - 1968 

1 - 9 - 1968 
Witnesses ; 
1 , (Sd. ) RAMBLAS SOBHANATH ( in Hindi) . 
2 . (Sd.) A , D . MATHUR. 
1 - 9 - 968. 

( Sd.) A . S . GUPTA , 

1 - 9 - 1968 
Bllaspur, dated the 1- 9-1968 . 

Asstt. Labour Com . (Central ) , Bilaspur . 

INo . 8 /29 /68-LRII.] 
S . O . 3595 Whercas an industrial dispute exists between the employers in relation 
to the Banki Colliery of Messrs National Coal Development Corporation Limited , Post 
Office Banki Mográ , District Bilaspur (Madhya Pradesh ) and their workman Shri 
Mabadevi Winding Engine Operator ; 

And wherças the said employers and the workman have by a written agreement, 
in pursuance of the provisions of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 10A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , referred the said dispute to arbitration by the person specified 
therein , and a copy of the said arbitration agreement has been forwarded to the Central 
Government; 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of sub -section ( 3 ) of section 10A 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby 
publishes the said arbitration agreement, which was received by it on the 19th September, 
1968 . 

AGREEMENT 
( Under Section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947) . 

BETWEEN 
Names of the Parties: - - 

Representing Employers.— Shri S. P . Mathur, Dy. Supdt. of Collieries, Banki Colliery of 
M /s . N .C . D .C . Ltd ., P . O . Banki Mogra (Distt . Bilaspur ) M . P . 

Representing Workman . - Shri Mahabir , Village & P .O . Sarkhon (Distt. Blaspur) M .P . 

It is hereby agreed between the partics to refer the following industrial dispute to the 
arbitration of Shri V . P . Pratap , Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central ) , Jabalpur , 

(i) Specific matters in dispute . — Whether retrenchment of Shri Mahabir , Winding 
Engine Operator, (Cat . V of the Wage Board Award ) , Banki Colliery of Messrs National 
Coal Development Corporation Ltd . with effect from 13th January , 1968 was legal and 
justified ? If not, to what relief is he entitled ? 

( ii) Details of the parties to the dispute including the name and address of the establish 
ment or undertaking involved . — Employers in relation to the Banki Colliery of M / s . 
National Coal Development Corporation Limited , P . O . Banki Mogra (Distt. Bilaspur ) M . P . 
and their workman , Shri Mahabir Winding Engine Operator (Cat. V . of the Wage Board 
Award ) . 

( iii ) Name of the workman in case he himself is involved in the dispute or the name 
of the union , if any, representing the workman or workmen in question . Shri Mahabir . 

(lv ) Total number of workmen employed in the undertaking affected . — 1250 . 
( v ) Estimated number of workmen affected or likely to be affected by the dispute . - 1. 
We further agree that the decision of the Arbitrator shall be binding on us. 

The arbitrator shall make his award within a period of 3 months or within such further 
tlmc as is extended by the mutual agrecment between us in writing. In case the award 
is not made within the period aforementioned , the referenco to arbitration shall stand 
automatically cancelled and we shall be free to negotiate for fresh arbitration , 
Representing Employers. 

Representing Workman , 
( Sd .) S . P . MATHUR . 

Sd / - MAHABIR ( In Hindi) , 
1 - 9 - 1968 
Witnesses . 
1 . (Sd .) RAMBILAŞ SOBHNATH ( In Hindi) . 
2 . (Sd .) A . D . MATHUR . 
1 - 9 -68. 

(Sd .) 4 . S. GUPTA , 

1 - 9 -68 . 
Aggiatant Labour Commissioner (C ) , Bilaspur. 

INo. 8 / 60 / 68 -LRII. ] 


Sec , 3 (ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12, 1968 /ASVINA 20 , 1890 


4061 


New Delhi, the 7th October, 1968 
S . O . 3596 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial disputo 
exists between the employers in relation to the Bhaggatih Rise Area Colliery , Post Office 
Dhansar (District Dhanbad ) and their workmen in respect of the matters specifiod in the 
Schedule hereto annexod ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said dispute 
for adjudication ; 

Now , thorefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of 
section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby 
refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal ( No . 3 ), Dhanbad , 
. constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the action of the management of Bhuggatdih Rise Area Colliery , Post Offilco 

Dhansar (Dhanbad ), in dismissing Shri Kedar Pandey , Miner, with effect 
from the 14th May , 1968, was justified ? If not, to what relief is the work 
man cntitled ? 

[No. 2 / 166 / 68- LRII .] 
S . O . 3597 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial disputo 
exists between the employers in relation to the management of Khandra Colliery, Post 
Ofice Ukhra , District Burdwan and their workmen in respect of the matters specificd in tho 
Schedulo hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said dispute for 
adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clausę (d ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of 
section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ), the Central Government hereby 
refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , constituted 
kunder section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the action of the management of Vishveshwar Khandra Colliery , Post 

Office Ukhra , District Burdwan in stopping from work the workmen men 

tioned below with effect from the 26th April, 1968 was justified: 
1. Shri Kishun Bhuian . 

33 . Shri Kanhai Majhi. 
2 . Shri Raghu Bhuian , 

34 . Shri Murui Mejhan . 
3 . Shri Prem Bhujan , 

35. Shri Girija Bhuian . 
4 . Shri Tulasi Bhuian . 

36 . Shri Ratra Bhuian . 
5 . Shri Panchu Bhuian , 

37. Shri Parsadia Bhuian , 
6 . Shri Rambhaju Bhuian . 

38 . Shri Chunna Kora . 
7 . Shri Kashi Bhuian . 

39 . Shri Karia Bhuian . 
8 , Shri Ramsarup. 

40 . Shri Arjun Bhuian . 
9 . Shri Mathura Bhuian . 

41. Shri Sabo Bhuian . 
10 . Shri Ram Prasad. 

42 . Shri Lakshman . 
11. Shri Pariag Siuian, 

43. Shri Jugal Bhuian , 
12 . Shri Sibu Bhuian , 

44 , Shri Mabadco Bhuian . 
13 . Shri Dhani Bhuian . 

451 Shri Panchu Bhujan , 
14. Shri Hari Bhuian , 

46. Shri Jagadish Bhulan . 
15 . Shri Saraswati Bhuian . 

47. Shri Madho Bhuian , 
16 . Shri Geni Bhụian . 

48 . Shri Duleswary . 
17 . Shri Fulia Bhuian . 

49 . Shri Sarasatla . 
18 . Shri Lakhia Bhuian , 

50. Shri Glabi. 
19 . Shri Laungi Bhuian . 

51. Shri Rakhi. 
20 . Shri Nuntbati Bhuian . 

52 . Shri Somary . 
21. Shri Paroo - Bhuian , 

53. Shri Jitadi. 
22. Shri Panwa Bhuian , 

54 . Shri Mukhja . 
23 . Shri Santi Bhujan , 

55. Shri . Shtitati. 
24 . Shri Saniobary Bhuian , 

56 . Shri Kalo Bhuian . 
25 . Shri Samary Bhuian , 

57. Shri Lochan . 
26 . Shri Adory Mucbi. 

58. Shri Mahabir Bhulan . 
27 . Shri Balai Muchi, 

59 . Shri Baleswar Bhulan , 
28 . Shri Baba Harijan . 

60 . Shri Mahondar Rajwar , 
29 , Shri Bhadi Dhangar, 

61. Shri Híru Bhulan . 
30 . Shri Jitani Bhuian , 

62 . Shri Hanji Bhuian , 
31 . Shri Chhotan Bhuian . 

63. Shri Chhabi Bhulan , 
32. Shri Jogoswar Turl, 

64, Shri Mantoo Bhulan , 


4662 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12, 1968 /ASVINA 20 , 1890 (PART II . 


65 . Shri Baburam Majhi. 

85. Shri Manji Bhulan , 
66 . Shri Sona Majhi. 

86 . Shri Chabi Bhuian . 
67 , Shri Jagat Majhi. 

87. Shri Mantoo Bhulan , 
68 . Shri Tribeni Mahato . 

88 . ShriBaburan Majbi, 
69 . Shri Nitai Bouri . 

89. Shri Sona Majbi. 
70 . Shri Podi Bouri. 

90 . Shri Jagat Majhi, 
71. Shri Bhagwat Singh . 

91. Shri Tribeni Mahato . 
72 . Shri Budani Kole . 

92. Shri Nitai Bouri. 
73 . Shri Malati Kole . 

93. Shri Podi Bouri. 
74. Shri Jitani Bhuian . 

94 . Shri Bhagwat Singh . 
73. Shri Santi Laungi. 

95 . Shri Podani Kolo . 
76 . Shri Kuili Bhuian . 

96 . Shri Malati Kole . 
77 . Shri Sabo Bhuian . 

97. Shri Titani. 
78 . Shri Laungi. 

98 . Shri Santi. 
79 , Shri Baldeo Bhuian . 

99. Shri Laungi. 
80 . Shri Nakhian . 

100 . Shri Kaili Bhuian , 
81. Shri Mahabir Bhulan . 

101. Shri Sabo Bhuiani. 
82 . Shri Baleswar Bhuia . 

102 . Shri Baldeo Bhuiani. 
83. Shri Mahendar Rajwar . 

103. Shri Mukhia , 
84. Shri Hiru Bhuian , 
If not, to what relief are the workmen entitled ? 

[No. 6 / $ 8 / 68 - LRII. 
$ . 0 , 3598 . — Whercas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dispute cxlsts 
between the employers in relation to the Ashakuty /Phularitand Colliery of Messers Ashakuty 
Coal Company Limited , Post Office , Katrasgarh , District Dhanbad ard their workmen in respect 
of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said dispute 
for adjudication ; 

Now , thereforc , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d ) of sub -section (1 ) 
of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central Goverr ment hereby 
refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , constitiuted under 
section 7A of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the action of the management of Ashakuty /Phularit and Colliery of Messert 
Ashokuty Coal Company Limited , Post Office Katrasgarh , District Dhanbad is retrenching the 
following workmen with effect from the dates mentioned against their names was justified ? 
S . No. Name of the Workmen 

Date of retrenchment 
I Shri Bhupen Chanda , Electrician 

22 - 4 -68 
2 Shri Jagdish Pal Singh , Electric -helper . 
3 Shri Lallan Singh , Electric - helper 

13- 5 -68 
. If not, to what relief are the workmen entitled ? 

[No. 2/ 154 /68 -LRII.] 
BALWANT SINGH , Under Secy . 


22 - 4 -68 


(Deptt. of Rehabilitation ) 
(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 

New Delhi, the 20th September 1968 
S . O . 3599 . . In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (1) of Section 3 of the 
Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 (44 of 1954 ), the Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri Dasondha Singh , PCS , Asstt. Chief Settlement Commis 
sioner in the Rehabilitation Department of the Punjab Government as Settlement Commig 
sionerer in the State of Punjab for the purposc of performing , in addition to his own : 
duties as Asstt. Chief Settlement Commissionr, Rehabilitation Deptt., Punjab, the functions . 
assigned to a Settlement Commissioner by or under the said Act in respect of (1) agricultural 
lands and shops in any rural Area including houses , cattlesheds and vacant sites forming 
part of the compensation pool and (ii ) the properties referred to in the Notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Works, Housing & Rehabilitation (Deptt . of : 
Rehabilitation ) No. 3 ( 37) / L & R -63A , dated the 5th March , 1964, 

This is in supersession of the Notification of even number dated the 30th July , 1968 
issued by the Department. 

(No. 3(5)/ L & R -67.1 

A . G . VASWANI, 
Settlement Commissioner ( A ) & Ex Officia 

Under Secy . 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12 , 1968 / ASVINA 20 , 1890 


4663 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT & COMPANY AFFAIRS 

(Department of Industrial Development) 

ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 21st September, 1968 
S . O . 3600 / IDRA / 5 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Industries 
Development & Regulation ) Act, 1951 read with rule 8 . of the Central Advisory Council 
(Procedural) Rules , 1952 , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri S . K . Ghosh to be 
member of the Central Advisory Council of Industries till the 3rd November, 1969 , in 
place of Shri H . S . Singhania , and directs that the following amendment shall be made 
in the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Industrial Development and 
Company Affairs ( Department of Industrial Development ) No. S . O . 4044 dated the 4th 
November , 1967, as subsequently amended by No. S . O . 463 dated the 17th January , 1968 
and No. S .O , 1320 dated the 3rd April , 1968 , namely : 

In the said Order , for entry No. 26 , relating to Shri H . S . Singhania , the following 
entry shall be substituted : 
" 26 . Shri S . K Ghosh , Chairman , Indian Jute Mills Association , Royal Exchange , 

6 , Netaji Subhas Road , Calcutta - 1," 


[No . 1( 5) Lic .Pol./67.] 


New Delhi , the 23rd September 1988 


S . O . 3601/ 15 / IDRA /68, - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 15 of the 
Industries (Development and Regulation ) Act , 1951 (65 of 1951 ) and in partial modifica 
tion of the Ministry of Industrial Development and Company Affairs (Department of 
Industrial Development ) Order No. S . O . 2527 / 15 / IDRA / 68, dated the 6th July , 1968 tho 
Central Government hereby appoints Shri Y . L . N . Achar , Deputy Director, Office of tho 
Textile Commissioner , Bombay vice Dr. M . S . Srinivasan , as a member Secretary of he 
body of persons appointed to make investigation into the affairs of the following industrial 
undertakings : 

1. The Cambodia Mills Ltd ., Coimbatore . 
2 . The Kaleeswarar Mills Ltd ., Coimbatore. 
3. The Palamalai Ranganathar Mills Ltd ., Coimbatore. 
4. The Tamilnad Spinning Mills , Tiruppur, Coimbatore Distt. 
5 . Om Parasakthi Mills Ltd ., Coimbatore . 
6 . The Kasthuri Mllls Ltd ., Coimbatore . 
7 . Pankaja Mills Ltd ., Coimbatore . 

[No. 9 (9 )Lic. Pol./ 68 .] 


New Delhi, the 25th September 1968 


S . O . 3602 / IDRA / 6 / 9 / 68 .- In supersession of Serial No. 21 of this Ministry s Order 
No. IDRA / 6 / 5 /68 , dated the Sth July , 1968 relating to Dr. G . S . Kasbekar , the Central 
Government hereby appoints with effect from the date of this Order till the 4th July , 1970 , 
Shri N . Srinivasan , Chairman , the Plastics Institute , Indian Section , 44 LUZ , Mylapore, 
Madras-4 , as a member of the Development Council for the scheduled Industries engaged 
in the manufacture or production of Organic Chemicals, vice late Dr. G . S . Kasbegar , 


[No. 2 (4 ) / Dev, Council /67-LC .) 

R . C . SETHI, Under Secy . 


(Departmont of Industrial Developmont) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 23rd September 1968 
9 . 0 . 3603 / IDRA / 18G / 68 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 18G and 
25 of the Industries (Development and Regulation ) Act , 1951 (65 of 1951), and of all 


4664 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12 , 1968 /ASVINA 20 , 1890 (PART II — 


other powers enabling it in that behalf, the Central Government hereby makes tho follow 
ing Order further to amond the Cement Control Order , 1967, namely : ---- 

1. This Order may be called the Cement Control ( Sixth Amendment) Order, 1968 . 
2 . In the Coment Control Order , 1967 , for sub -clauso (b ) of clauso 2 , the follow 

ing sub -clauso shall be substituted , namely :-- 
" (b ) Controller moang tho Cement Corporation of India Limited or tho Managing 

Director theroof or an officer of the Central Government, appointed as 
such by the Central Government by notification in the Oficial Gazette;" 

INo . F. 1-28 / 68 - Cem.] 
K . I VIDYASAGAR, Jt. Secy. 


प्रौद्योगिक विकास तथा समवाय-कार्य मंत्रालय 

( प्रौद्योगिक विकास विभाग ) 


प्रावेश 


नई दिल्ली, 23 सितम्बर, 1963 
एस० प्रो० 3604 / पाई० डी० पार० ए० / 1868 : — उद्योग ( विकास तथा नियमन ) 
अधिनियम , 1951 ( 1951 का 65 ) की धारा 18छ और धारा 25 के द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियो तथा 
इस सम्बन्ध में इसे समर्थ बनाने वाली अन्य सभी शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार 
एतवद्वारा सीमेंट नियंत्रण प्रादेश , 1987 में और मागे संशोधन करने के लिए निम्नलिखित प्रादेश 
जारी करती है . अर्थात : - - 

1. यह आदेश सीमेंट नियंत्रण ( छठा संशोधन ) आदेश , 1968 कहलायेगा । 
2. सीमेंट नियंत्रण आदेश , 1967 के खण्ड 2 के उप - खण्ड 3 ( ख ) में निम्नलिखित 

उप - खण्ड रखा जायेगा , अर्थात : 
" ख " नियंत्रक का अर्थ सीमट कारपोरेशन आफ इण्डिया लिमिटेड या उसका प्रबन्ध 

निदेशक या केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा सरकारी राजपत्र की अधिसूचना द्वारा इस 
प्रकार नियुक्त किया गया केन्द्रीय सरकार का कोई अधिकारी ; 

[सं० एफ० 1 - 28 / 68- सीमेंट ] 
के० आई० विद्यासागर , 
सयुक्त सचिव , 


( Department of Industrial Devolopment) 

(INDIAN STANDARDS INSTITUTIONS) 

New Delhi, the 20th September 1968 
anagar _ Incancellation of the Indian Standarde. Institution notification publishedin 
the Gazette of India , Part II , Section 3(11 ) dated 24 August 1968 under number s . o . 2844 
dated & August 1908 and in partial modification of the notification published in the Gazette 
dated « September 1964 under number $ . 0 , 3006 dated 25 August 1964 , it is , hereby, notified 
that the tandard marks for vitreous sanitary appliances ( vitrcous china ) have been revised . The 
toised designs of the standard marks together with the title of the relevant Indian Standards 
und verbal description of the designs ero given in the following schedule . 


Sec . 3 (ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 17 , 1968 /ASVANA 70, 1890 


4665 


These standard marks for the purpose of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification 
Marks ) Act, 1952 and the rules and regulations framed thereunder shall come into force with 
effect from 29 July 1968 : 

THE SCHEDULE 


Serial Design of the Product/Class of 
No. Standard Mark Products to which 

applicable 


No, & Title of 
Relevant Indian 

Standard 


Verbal description of the 
design of the Standard 

Mark 


(3 ) 


( 4 ) 


(5) 


I. 


IS : 2556 


Part I 


Vitreous sanitary IS :2556 (Part 1) The monogram of the Indian 
appliances (generel 1967 Specifiaca - Standards Institution 
requirements ). tion for vitrcous consisting of letters "ISI , 

sanitary appliances drawn in the cxact style 
( vitreous china) and relative proportions as 
Part I General indicated in col. ( 2 ), the 
requirements ( first number designation of the 
Tevision ) . 

Indian Standard being 
superscribed on the top 
side and the relevant Part 
No. being subscribed 
under the bottom side 
of the monogram as 

indicated in the design , 
Vitreous sanitary IS : 2556 (Parts II Thc monogram of the Indian 
appliances . 

to X ) — 1967 Spe Standards Institution 
cifications for consisting of letters IŞI , 
vitreous sanitary drawn in the exact style 
appliancca ( vit and relative proportions 
reous china) first as indicated in Col. ( 2 ) 
revision ) . 

the number designation 
of the Indian Standard 
being superscribed on the 
top side of the monogram 
as indicated in the design , 


2 


I $ : 2556 


[No. CMD / 13 :9 . ] 


4666 


New Delhi , the 25th September 1968 
S . O . 3606 . - The Certification Marks Licences , details of which are mentioned in the schedule given hereafter, have lapsed or their renewal deferred : 


SCHEDULE 


SI. 
No. 


Licence No. 
and Date 


Licencee s Name and Address 


Remarks 


Article /Process and the Relevant IS : S.O . Number and Date of 
No. 

the Gazette Notifying 

Graat of Licence 


(6 ) 


1 . CM / L - 441 Eogineering Products Ltd ., Togeshwari Three-Phase Induction Motors Up to S . O . 2629 dated 25- 8 - 1952 Deferred after 15 - 8 - 1968 
31 - 7 - 1962 Estate , Ghodbunder Road, Jogesh - 10 HP only with Class A Insula 
Wari, Bombay -60 . 

tion - IS : 325 – 1961. 
2 . CM / L - 449 Victor Cables Corpn ., 802, Joshi Road , Rubber Insulated Cables IS : 434 S . O . 2845 dated 15 - 9 - 1952 Deferred after 31 - 8 - 1908 . 
24 - 8 - 1962 Karol Bagh , New Delhi- s having (Parts I & II) - 1964. 

their Office at 5775 , Sadar Bazar, 

Delhi- 6 . 
CM / L - 607 The Production Centre for Electric Single -Phase Smal AC and Universal S . O . 241 dated 18 - I - 1954 Deferred after 31- 8 - 1963 . 
II- 12 - 1963 Motors (Govt. of India , Ministry of Electric Motors with Class A IA 
Industry ), Trivalla - 5 (Kerala ) . 

sulation - IS : 996 - 1964 . 
4 . CM / L - 739 Hostess Appliances, 177 , C . S . T . Road , Domestic Pressure Cookers ( pressed ) S . O . 3487 dated 3 - 10 - 1954 Deferred after 31- 7 - 1963 
10 - 7 - 1964 Kaliva Bombay , having their office at 4 , 5 , 6 , 8 and 12 litre capacities 

164 ,Modi Street, Fort, Bombay- 1. IS : 2347 – 1966 . 
5. CM /L - 1019 All India Medical Corpa ., Mulii Jetha BHC Emulsifiable Concentrates - IS : S. O . 987 dated 27 - 3 - 1955 Deferred after 15 -8 - 1968 . 

26 - 2- 1965 Bldg ., 185 Princess , St., Bombay -2 . 632 - 1958. 
6 . CML- I128 The Calcutta Silk Mfg . Co. Ltd., 23, Rayon Satin , Variety No. 204 and S . O . 3520 dated 25 - 9 - 1955 Deferred after 31- 8 - 1958, 
12 - 8 - 1965 B . T . Road , P . O . Sukchar , ( 24 Par - 208 only - IS : 1453 – 1959 . 

ganas) having their office at 37, Vive 

kananda Road , Calcutta - 7 . 
7 . CM / L - 1314 National Screw & Wire Products Ltd , Cotton - Covered Round Copper S . O . 2925 dated I - IO - 1966 Lapsed after 15 - 8 - 1968. 

10 - 8 - 1968 Belur, Distt. Howrah West Bengal. Conductors — IS : 450 – 1964 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:OCTOBER12,1968/ASVINA20,1890PARTI 


(CMD / 13 : 14 ] 


S . 0 . 3607 – pursuance of sub - regulation (1 ) of Regulation 8 of the Indian Standards Institution ( Certification Marks) Regulations , 1955 
as subsequently amended , the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that fiftyseven licenca , particulars of which are given in the Scheiule hereto an 
nexed , have been renewed . 

THE SCHEDULE 


SI. Licence No. and 
No . date 


Period of Validity 
From 


Name and Address of the Licensee 


Artice Proess covered by the licence and the 

Relevant Indian Standard No . 


To 


(1) 


(2) 


(3 ) 


16 - 8-68 


15- 8 -71 


16 -8 -68 


15 -8 -69 


16 - 8 - 68 


15 -8 -69 


16 - 8 -68 


I CM / L - I 

8 - 8 - 1955 
2 CM /L - 136 

3 -8 - 1959 
3 CM / L - 200 

15 - 6 - 1960 
4 CM /L - 208 

29 - 7 - 1960 
5 CM / L -212 

25 - 8 - 1960 
6 CM /L - 213 

25 -8 - 1960 
7 CM / L - 332 

10 - 8 - 1961 
8 CML- 430 

12 - 7 - 1962 


Sec.3(i)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:OCTOBER12,1968/ASVINA20,1890 


15 -8 -69 


1 - 2- 68 


31- 8-69 


1 - 9- 68 


31 -8 -69 


16 - 8 -68 


The Aluminium Industries Ltd ., N3. I, Ceramic Steel-cored ani plain stranded aluminiam 
Factory Road , Kundara , Kerala. 

waductors of all types and sizes IS : 398 - 

1961 
M /s Liberty Chemical Works, Nagardas Road , Sodium thiosulphate , photographic grade 
Mogra West, Andheri (East ), Bombay . 

IS : 246 - 1964 
M /s Bharat Pulverising Mills Ltd ., 589 , Thiru - DDT dusting powders — IS : 564 - 1961 

pothiyur High Road , Madras - 19 . 
M /s Bengal Chemicals & Pharmaceutical Works Naphthalene - IS : 539 - 1955 

Ltd ., 6 Ganesh Chandra Avenue , Calcutta , 
M /s Cassaya (India), 21 Gyur Laba Street, Cal - Tea -chest metal fittings - IS : 10 - 1964 

cutta - 6 . 
M /s Plywood Manufacturers Co -operative So Tea -chest plywood panels - IS : 10 - 1964 
ciety Ltd ., II/3A , Canal Circular Road , Cal 

cutta - 4 . 
M /s Tata Fison Industries Ltd ., Union Bank Endrin emulsifiable concentrates - IS : 1310 
Building, Dalai Street, Fort, Bombay - 1. 

1958 
The Indian Iron & Steel Co Ltd ., Bampur Works Structural steel ( standard quality )- IS : 226 

P . O . Burnpur, Distt. Burdwan , West Bengal 1962 
having their Registered Office at 12 Mission 
Row , Calcutta - i , 
M / s Victor Cable Corporation , 7 /3 , G . T , Road , (1) PVC cables of 250 and 650 volts grade with 

Sahibabad , Post Ofice , Pasonda (Ghaziabad ) copper and aluminium conductors - IS : 694 
having their Office at Sadar Bazar, Delhi. Part 1) - 1964 and 

( H ) PVC insulated flexible cords. 250 volts 

grade - IS : 694 ( Part II) - 1964 
M /s Mysore Insecticides Pyt. Ltd ., 18 Vaidya Eadrin emulsifiable concentrates - IS : 1310 
natha Mudali Street, Tondiarpet, Madras - 21 1958 
having their Office at 31- A North Beach Road , 
Madras - I . 


15 -8 -69 


1 -8 - 68 


31-7 -69 


1 - 8 -68 


31- 7 - 69 


9 CM / L - 432 

18 - 7 - 1962 


10 CM / L -440 

21- 7 - 1962 


16 - 8 -68 


15 - 8 - 69 


4667 


4668 


11 CM /L -444 

20 - 8 - 1962 
CM / L - 445 
20 - 8 - 1967 
CM /L -446 
20 - 8 - 1962 
CML- 447 
20 - 8 - 1962 
CM / Ļ - 532 
30 - 4 - 1963 
CML- 563 
18- 7 - 1953 


1 -9 -68 
1 -9 - 68 
1- 9 - 68 
1- 9- 68 


31- 8 -71 
31- 8 -7 : 
13 -8 -71 
31 -8 - 71 
31 -8- 71 
15 - 8 - 69 


M /s Hindustan Steel Ltd ., Rourkela Steel Plant, Structural steel (standard quality ) - IS : 226 
Rourkela 

1962 
MsHindustan Steel Ltd ., Rourkela Steel Plant, Structural steel (high tensile ) - IS : 961 - 1962 

Rourkela , 
M /s Hindustan Steel Ltd ., Rourkela Steel Plant, Cold rolled carbon steel sheet3 - IS : 513 - 1963 

Rourkela , 
Mis Hindustan Steel Ltd ., Rourkela Steel Plant, Hot rolled carbon steel sheet and strip - IS : 
Rourkela . 

1079 - 1963 
M /s Hindustan Steel Ltd ., Rourkela Steel Plants Structural steel (fusion welding quality ) — IS : 
Rourkela , 

2062 - 1962 
M /s Bharat Pulverising Mifls Private Ltd ., Parathion emulsifiable concentrates - IS : 2129 

Chakla Andheri- Kurla Road , Bombay -69 hay- 1952 
ing their office at 38 - A Sayani Road , Bombay 


1 -9 -68 


16 - 8 - 68 


28 . 


16 - 8 - 68 


15 -8 - 69 


CML - 565 

25 - 7 - 1963 
18 CML -520 

17 - I- 1964 


16 - 8 -68 


15 - 8 - 69 


THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
: 
OCTOBER 
12 
, 
1968 
/ 
ASVINA 
20 
, 
1890 
( 
PART 
I 


CM /L - 672 
14 - 5 - 1964 
CM / L -716 
29 - 6 - 1964 
CM L -717 
29 - 6 - 1964 
EM /L -742 
21- 7 - 1964 


1 -9 - 68 
1 -8 - 68 
1 -8 - 68 


31 - 8 - 71 
31 -7 -69 
31-7-69 
15 - 8- 69 


M /s Devidayal Stainless Steel Industries Pvt. Wrought aluminium utensils , grade SIC - IS : 

Ltd ., Reay Road , Darkukhana, Bombay- Io . 21- 1959 
M / s Roofrite P . Ltd . , Daulatabad Road ,Gurgaon Bitumen felts for water -proofing and damp 

(Haryana) Near Railway Station having their proofing type 3 grade I - - IS : 1322 - 1965 
office at Cottage No. 18 , West Patel Nagar , 

New Delhi- 12 . 
M / s Hindustan Steel Ltd ., Rourkela Steel Plant, Structural steel (ordinary quality ) IS : 1977 
Rourkela 

1962 
M /s Steel_ Rolling Mills of Bengal Ltd ., 28 Structural steel ( standard quality ) - IS 226 - 1962 

Strand Road , Calcutta . 
M / s Steel Rolling Mills of Bengal Ltd ., 28 Structural steel (ordinary quality ) - IS : 1977 
Strand Road , Calcutta . 

1962 
M /s Croplife Chemicals Pvt. Ltd ., 32 Foreshore Endrin emulsifiable concentrates - JS : 131c 

Road , Sibpore , Howrah having their office at 1958 

2 Sooterkin Street, Calcutta - 13 . 
M s Croplife Chemicals Pot . Ltd . , 32 Foreshore Dieldrin emulsifiable concentrales_ IS : 1054 

Road , Sibpore , Howrah having their office at 1962 

2 Sooterkin Street , Calcutta - 13 . 
M /s Bengal Potteries Ltd . , 3 Pagaldanga Road , Porcelain insulators for Overhead power lines 

Calcutta having their office at 45 , Tangra (11 KV , pin type ) - IS : 731 - 1963 

Road , Calcutta - 15 . 
M / s Lloyd Bitumen Products Private Ltd ., I Hot applied sealing compounds for joints in 

Tatatola Road , Calcutta - 53 baving their office concrete grade , B (jet fuel resistant) - IS : 
at 4A , Ryd Street, Calcutta - 16 , 

1834 - 1967 


16 - 8 - 68 


16 - 8- 68 


15 - 8 - 69 


CML- 743 
21- 7 - 1964 
CM /L - 744 
23 - 7 - 1964 


16 - 8 -68 


15 - 8-70 


16 - 8 -68 


15 - 8 -69 


25 CM / L - 745 

24 - 7 - 1964 


1 -9 -68 


28- 2 -69 


26 CM / L - 747 

27 - 7 - 1964 
27 CM {L -753 

4 - 8 - 1964 


16 - 8- 68 


15 - 8 -69 


16 - 8 -68 


28 CM / L - 754 

4 - 8 - 1964 


15 -8 - 69 


- 


- 


- 


- 


M /s Radio & Electricals Mfg. Co . Ltd ., Mysore Water meters (domestic type ) wet- dial and dry 
Road , Bangalore - 18 , 

diai type , 15 mm , 20 mm and 25 mm sizes 

IS : 779E - 1966 
M / s Hindusthan Twyfords Ltd ., Bahadurgarh , Flushing cisterns for water closets and urinals 
Distt . Rohtak . 

( valyeless siphonic type) vitreous china 

IS : 774 - 1964 
M /s Hindusthan Twyfords Ltd ., Bahadurgarh , Vitreous sanitary appliances consisting of: 
Distt Rohtak , 

( 1 ) squatting pans, long par pattern , size 

450 mm , 630 mm , 580 mm and 680 

mm ; 
( 2 ) squatting pans , Orissa pattern , size 630 & 

450 mm , 580 and 440 mm ; 
3 ) wash basins, flat back size 450 X 300 

mm , 550 X 400 mm and 630 x 450 

mm ; 
(4 ) sinks laboratory , gize 400 X 250 X 150 

mm ; 
) urinals (bowls flat back ) ; 
6 ) wash - down water dosets ; and 
(7 ) pedestals for wash basins - IS : 2556 

1963 
Mis Shree Venkateshwara Minerais (Private ) DDT dusting powders - - IS : 564 - 1961 

Ltd ., 3 Elaiya Mudali Street, Tondiarpet, 
Madras -21 having their regd Office at 337 

Thamba Chetty Street , Madras - I . 
M /s Krishna Steel Industries Pvt. Ltd . , 29 - 30 , Structural steel ( standard quality IS : 226 

Vaswani Mansion , 120 Dinshaw Vacha Road , 1962 
Churchgate , Reclamation , P . B . No. 93 - A , 

Bombay . 
Ms! Krishna Steel Industries Pvt. Ltd ., 29- 30 , Structural steel (ordinary quality IS : 1977 

Vaswani Mansion , 120 Dinshaw Vacha Road , 1962 
Churchgate Reclamation , P . B . No. 83 - A , 

Bombay . 
M /s Rathi Steel Rolling Mills P .Ltd ., Loni Road , Structural steel (standard quality IS : 226 
Shahdara , Delhi - 32 . 

1962 
M /s RathiSteel Rolling Mills P . Ltd ., LoniRoad , Structural steel (ordinary quality )- IS : 1977 
Shahdara , Delbi- 32 . 

1962 
The Plant Protection Products (Private ) Ltd ., Endrin emulsifiable concentrates- IS : 1310 

Rodayalur ( S . Riy ) Nellore Distt, having their 1958 
office at 5 /355 Stonehousepet , Nellore - 2 . 


Sec.3(II)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:OCTOBER12,1968/ASÝDNÁ20,1890 


29 CM / L - 756 

12 - 8 - 1964 


1 - 2 -68 


28- 2 -69 


30 CM }L -763 

24 -8 - 1964 


1 - 9 - 68 


31 -869 


31 CM / L - 764 

24 - 8 - 1954 


1- 9 - 68 


31- 8-69 


1- 9 - 68 


31 -8 - 69 


32 CM {L - 769 

24 -8 - 1964 
CM {L - 770 
24 - 8 - 1964 
CM /L - 1010 
10 - 2 - 1965 


1 -9 -68 


31- 8 - 69 


16 - 8 - 68 


15 - 8 - 69 


4669 


(1) 


(2) 


(3) 


(5) 


6704 


(6 ) 


16 - 8 -68 


15 - 8 -69 


35 CML- 1118 

28- 7 - 1965 


M /s ,Malwa Ram Handa & Sons , G . T . Road , Structural steel (standard quality ) tested steel 
Phagwara , Distt . Kapurthala . 

sections of the following sizes only : 
Rods & squares 6 mm to 40 mm (I to 1 5 /8 ) . 
Flats -- width 12 . 5 mm to 100 mm ( to 47 

thickness 1 .5mm x 25 mm ( 1 / 16 x 


Angles25 mm x 25mm x 3mm ( I XIX 

1/ 8 " ) to so mm x 50 mm x 6 mm 

( 2 X 2 x 12 
Gate channels hexagonal bars up to 25 mm 

(12IS : 226 -1962 . 
M / s. Malva Ram Handa & Sons , G . T . Road , Structural steel ( ordinary quality ) tested steel 
Phagwara , Distt . Kapurthala . 

sections of the following sizes only : 
Rods & squares 6 mm to 40 mm ( 1 to I 5 / 8 ) 
Flats-- width 12 . 5 mm to 100 mm ( t to 4 

thickness 1 . 5 mm x 25 mm ( 1 / 16 X 


16 - 8 - 68 


15 - 8 -69 


36 CML- 1119 

28 - 7 - 1965 


THEGAZETTEORINDIA:OCTOBER12,1968/ASVINA20,1890,[PARTII 


6 - 8 -68 


15- 8 -69 


37 CM L - 1125 

12 - 8 - 1965 


Angles - 25 mm x 25mm x 3 mm ( 1 XI 

X 1 / 8 ) to 50 mm x 50 mm x 6 mm 

12" X 2 x 12 
Gate channels hexagonal bars up to 25 mm 

( 1 ) - IS : 1977 - 1962 . 
The Fort William Co, Ltd . , ( Steel Wire & Rope (1 ) Steel wire ropes for winding purposes in 
Division ) , 6 / A , GT, Road , Konnagar , Distt . mines - IS : 1855 - 1961 and 
Hooghly , West Bengal having their Regd . ( D) Steel wire ropes for haulage purposes in 

Office at 14 , Netaji Subhas Road , Calcutta - I. mines — IS : 1856 - 1961. 
Ms. National Rolling & Steel Ropes Ltd ., Sham - Steel wire ropes for general engineering pur 

nagar , 24 Parganas , West Bengal having their poses - IS : 2266 - 1963 . 
Regd. Office at Nicco House, Hare Street , 

Calcutta - I , 
The Everready Flashlight Company, Division of Flash lights - IS : 2083 - 1962, 
Union Carbide (India ) Limited , Mill Road , 

Aishbagh , Lucknow ( U . P .) . 
M /s . Venkateshwara Agro - Chemicals & Minerals , Endrin emulsifiable concentrates — IS : 1310 
6 / 303 , T . H . Road , Madras -21, 

1958 , 


38 CM /L - 1284 

27 - 6 - 1966 


1 - 7 - 68 


30 - 6 -69 


29 CM /L -1303 


16 - 8 -68 


15 - 8 - 69 


28 - 7 - 1966 


16 - 8 -68 


115 - 8 -69 


40 CM /L -1305 

28 - 7 - 1966 


16 - 8 -68 


15 - 8 - 69 


41 CM / L - 1300 

29-7 - 1966 


16-8 -68 


15- 8 -69 


42 CMIL - 1312 

29- 7 - 1966 


1- 9 - 68 


31- 8 - 69 


CM / L - 1317 
29- 8 - 1966 


1-9 - 68 


31- 8 - 69 


44 CM / L - 1319 

29- 8 - 1966 


[ - 9 -68 


31- 8 -69 


45 CML- 1325 

31- 8 - 1966 


M /s. Plant Protection Products Private ) Ltd . , Malathicn cmulsifiable concentrates - JS : 2567 

Kojavalu S . Rly ) Nellore Distt , having their 1963 . 

office at 5 / 355 . Stonehousepet, Nellore - 2 ( A . P . ). 
M /s. Mysore Feeds (Pvt.) Ltd ., Mysore Road , Powtry feeds, growirg and laying-- IS : 1734 
Nayandahalli, Bangalore having their office at 1964 . 

230 , Oid Tharagupat , Bangalore - 2 . 
M /s. Hindustan Wires Ltd . , 16 / 5 , Chowringhee Galvanized round steel armcur virem 
Road , Calcutta - 13 . 

DIS : 434 (Parts I & II) - 1964 and 

(12) IS : 1554 ( Part 1) - 1964 . 
M /s . Dukart & Co . Prt Ltd ., 28 / 12 Prince Anwar Integra ) ameat waterproofing compound , 

Shah Road , Calcutta - 33 having their office at normal settiog - IS : 2645 - 1964. 

42- A , Madan Boral Lane , Calcutta - 12 . 
The Premier Cable Co . Ltd . , Karukutty , Erna - PYC insulated cables with aluminium con 

kulam District (Kerala State ) having their Regd. ductors of the following types : 
Office at Chelur Bldg . , Mahatma Gandhi 250 /440 volis grade 
Road , Ernakulam - 6 . 

Single core (PYC sheathed ) 
(11) Single core (unsheathed ) 
( iii ) Twin core with E . C . C . 
Ciow Three core flat 
( u ) Three core circular, 
650 / 1100 polts grande 
(i) Single core (PVC sheathed ) 
(ii) Single core (unsheathed ) 
(11 ) Three core fiat 
( iv ) Three core circular 

IS : 694 ( Part IL )- 1964. 
M /s . Imperial Chemical Industries ( India ) Pvt. Low density polythene pipe for cold water ser. 

Ltd . , Rishra , Distt. Hooghly , West Bengal vices , normal gauge and heavy gauge - IS : 
having their office at ICI House , 34 , Chow - 3076 (Part I) - 1965 

riaghee , Calcutta - 16 . 
M /s. Krishi Rasayan , Ranital, Distt. Balasore Endrin emulsifiable coccotiates IS : 1310 
(Orissa ). 

1958 . 
M /s. Indian Crafts & Industries, 17 / 101, Ram Ammunition boots for general purposes - IS : 
Narain Bazar , Kanpur, 

583 - 1954 . 
M /s , Goa Pesticides Private Ltd . , Fatorda ,Margao Dieldrin emulsifiable concentrates - 18 : 1054 

(Goa ) having their Registered Office at 1962 . 

Chowgule House , Mormugao Harbour , Goa. 
M /s . Foods , Fats and Fertilizers Ltd ., Tanuku Malted milk [ cod containirg cocoa powder 

Road , Tadepalligudem , West Godavari Distt. IS : 2003 - 1962. 
( A . P . ) having their Оfice at 115 - B , N . S . C . Bose 
Road , Madras - 1 . 


Sec.3i)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:OCTOBER12,1968/ASVINA20,1890- 


1- 9 -68 


31- 8 -69 


46 CM /L - 1327 

31 - 8 -1966 


1 - 2-68 
16 - 8 -68 


28-2 -70 
15-8 -69 


47 CM / L - 1396 

28- 2 - 1967 
48 CMIL - 1446 

29 - 5 - 1967 
CM / L - 1474 
13 - 7 - 1967 


1 - 8 -68 


31- 7 - 69 


16 - 8 -68 


15 -8 - 69 


50 CM / L - 1485 

10 - 8 - 1967 


4671 


(1) 


(2) 


- 
4672 


( 5 ) 


16 -8 -68 


15 - 2 -69 


51 CM /L -1486 

10 - 8 - 1967 
CM /L - 1487 
10 - 8 - 1967 
CM / L - 1488 
10 - 8 - 1967 


M /s. Tata Fison Industries Ltd ., Plot No. 94 , Copper oxychloride water dispersible powder 

Industrial Estate , Ambattor, Madras - 58 . concentrates - IS : 1507 - 1966 . 
M /s. Ashwin Industries, Samlaya , Distt. Baroda. 18 -litre square tibs - IS : 916 - 1966 . 


10 - 8 - 68 


31- 7 -69 


T 


16 - 8 - 68 


15 -8 -69 


54 CM / L - 1493 

16 - 8 - 1967 


16 - 8 -68 


15 - 8 -69 


30 - 8 -58 


15 -8 -69 


55 CM } L - 1502 

30 - 8 - 1967 
56 CM / L - 1505 

31 - 8 - 1967 


M /s. Assam Bengal Veneer Industries Pvt. Ltd ., Tea -chest metal fittings- IS : 10 - 1964. 

32 , Canal South Road , Calcutta - Ig having their 

office at 9 , Clive Row , Calcutta - I. 
M / s. Entoma lasecticides & Agro -Chemicals Endrin emulsifiable concentrates - IS : 1310 

(Kerala ), A - 3 Shed , Industrial Estate , Olava - 1958 , 
kot, Palghat- 2 having their Office at Ramkirpa? 

Yakkara Road , Palghat - I (Kerala ). 
M /s. New Metal Works; 56 - E , RasulJiwa Con - 18 - litre square tins IS : 916 - 1966 . 

pound, Clark Road , Jacob Circle, Bombay - ır. 
M /s . Usha Martin Black (Wire Ropes ) Ltd ., SteelFire for the core of steel - cored aluminium 
Tatisilwai, Ranxhi, Bibar, 

conductors for Overhead power transmission 

purposes - IS : 398 - 1961. 
M /s. Cachar Plywood Ltd .,Goombirat Tea Estate, Tea - chest Plymcod panels -- IS : 10 - 1964 . 

P . O . Oliviacherra , Distt. Cachar , Assam . 


1 - 9 - 68 


31 - 8 - 69 


57 CM /L - 1571 

23 - 11- 1967 


1 - 9 -68 


31- 8 -69 


THEGAZEVIEOPINDIA:OCTOBER12,1968/ASVINA20,1890[PARTII 


[CMD / 13 :12 .) 


SEC. 3 ( ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12 , 1968 /ASVINA 20 , 1890 


4673 


me 


S . O . 3008. -- In pursuance of gub - regulations (2 ) and ( 3 ) of regulation 3 of the Indian 
Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations , 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution 
hereby notifies that the Indian Standard (s ) , particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto 
annexed , have been ctablished during the period 1 to 15 September, 1968 . 


THB SCHEDULE 


Bricf Particulars 


S1, No, andTitle of the Indian No , and Title of the Indian 
No, Standard Established Standard or Standards , if 

any , supergeded by the 
new Indian Standard 


2 


I IS : 269 - 1967 Specification 

for ordinary , rapid -hard - 
coing and low heat port - 
land cement ( Second 
Revision ) . 


I $ :269 - 1958 Specification 
for ordinary , rapid - hard - 
cning and low heat port 
land ceinent (Revised ) 


This standard covers the 
manufacture and chemical 
and physical requirementa 
of thice types of Portland 
cements Price Rs. 4 . 00 ). 


2 


IS : 319 - 1968 Specification 

for frce - cutting brass 
rods and section ; (Second 
Revision ) 


IS :319- 1962 Specification 
for free cutting brass rods 
and sections Revised ) 


This standard covers the re 
quirements forlcaded brass 
fods and sections having 
a minimum cross - sectional 
dimension not less than 
I 5 mm suitable for high 
speed screw cutting and 
turning work , (Price Re. 
3 90 ) . 


3 TS : 401- 1967 Code of Prac - I $ : 401- 1961 Code of practi- 

tice for preservation of ce for preservation of tim - 
timber ( Second revision ) bor ( Revised ) 


This code of Practice covet 
types of preservatives , thei 
brief descriptions, method 
of treatment, and the 
type and choice of treat 
ment , for different specie 
of timber for a numbe , 
of uges . (Price Rs. 8 . 90 ) . 


4 


IS : 526 - 1968 Specification 

for oil of palmarosa 
( first revision ) , 


IS : 526 - 1954 Specification for This standard prescribes 
palmarosa oil and ginger the requirements and the 
grass oil 

methods of sampling and 
test for oil of palmarosa , 
The oil is used in per 
fuming soaps and chewing 
tobacco . It also serves 
as a raw material for the 
Production of high - grade 
geraniol and its egters 

Price Rs. 3 . 50 ). 
IS :843 - 1956 Specification for This standard covers the 
smith s tongs 

requirements for smith s 
tanga for general use . (Price 
Rs. 5 . 00 ). 


5 


IS : 843 - 1968 

for smith s 
revision ) 


Specification 
tongs ( first 


NOTE : - With a view to facilitate change over by Indian Standards Institution Certification 

Marks liçengeti 
(1) IS : 269- 1958 shall remain in force concurrently with I $ : 269- 1967 upto 31 

December, 1968 , and 
( li ) IS : 319 . 1962 shall remain in force concurrently with IS : 319 - 1968 upto 30 November 

1968 . 


4674 


THĘ GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12 , 1968/ ASVINA 20, - 1890 (PART 


I 


3 


6 IS : 1365- 1968 SpeciAcation IS : 1365- 1966 Specification. This standard covers the 

for glotted countersunk for lotted countersunk requirements for Slotted 
head and slotted raised head machine screws ( 18 countersunk hcad and slot- - 
countergunk head scTCWS vised ) 

ted raised countersuak 
(dlamcter range 1 . 6 to 20 

head screws in the diameter 
mm ) (Second revision ) 

range 1. 6 to 20 mm for 
both coarse and fine 
pitch screw threads. 
specified in IS :4218 

1967. ( Price Rs. 3 . 50 ). 
7 IS : 1366 - 1968 Specification I $ : 1366 - 1962 Specification This standard covers th 

for Slotted chceşe head for Slotted round and requirements of slotted 
gcrews ( diamcter range cheese headmachine screws cheese head screws in 
I 6 to 20 mm ) ( first re 

the diameter range 1 . 6 
vision ) 

to 20 mm for both coarse 
aod finc pitches of screw 
threads specified in IS :4218 

1967 (Price Rs. 3 . 50 ) . 
8 IS : 1500 - 1968 Methods for IS :1500 - 1959 Method for This standard prescribes 

brinell hardness test for brinell hardness test for method of conductirg 
stcel Cirst revision ) steel 

brinell hardncss ftest on 

steel. (Price Rs. 5 . 00 ) . 
9 IS : 1724 - 1968 Specification IS : 1724 - 1960 Methods of This standard prescribes 

for wooden warp bohbine specifying and testing var. requirements of wooden 
for rabbith spindles ( first . nished and cnamelled warp bobbins for rabbeth 
tevision ) 

ring rabbeth bobbins for spindles for use on ring 
cotton mills 

spinning frames (havirg 
lifts from 127 to 254 . 
mm ) for spinning of 
cotton and staple fibre 

yarns, (Price Rs . 5 . 50 ) . 
IO IS : 1754 - 1968 Method for IS : 1754 - 1961 Mcthod for This standard applies to 

verification of Vickers calibration of Vickers the verification of reytirg 
hardness testing machines hardness testing machines, machines for determinine 
( first revision ) 

Vickers hardness . (Price 

Rs. 2 , 50 ). 
II IS : 2020 (Part 1)- 1968 

This standard prescribes 
Methods of cheinical ana 

methods for the analysis 
ysis of silicochromium 

of silicon and chromium 
Part I analysis of silicon 

in silicochromium in 
and cliromium 

the ranges specified in 
IS : 2024 - 1962 ( Price Rs. 

2 . 50 ) . 
T2 IS :2281- 1968 Method for IS :2281- 1962 Method for This standard specifies 

verification of brinell calibration of brinell two methods famely 
hardness testing machin - hardness testing machines direct , and indirect veri 
cs ( first revision ) 

fication of testing machines 
for determining Brinell 

hardness (Price Rs. 2 . 50 ). 
13 IS : 4048 - 1966 Density 

This standard . furnishes 
composition tables for 

table which correlate 
aqueous solutions of gul 

density with composition 
phuric acid 

of aqueous solutions of 
şiulphuric acid . It is in 
tended to assist in deter 
mining the strength of 
en aqueous solution of 
sulphuric acid of known 
density and in preparing 
solutions of specific stren 
gth . (Price Rs. 13 .00 ) 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12 , 1968 /ASVINA 20 , 1890 


4675 


I 


14 


IS : 4049- 1968 Specification 

for formed ends for tanks 
and pressure vessels 


15 


IS :4218 ( Part II )- 1967 

ISO Mctric screw threads 
Part II Pitch diameter com 

binations 


16 


IS :4218 (Part III) - 1967 

ISO Metric screw threads 
Part III Bazic dimensions 
for design profiles 


This standard specifics 

the boundary dimensions 
of dighed and fanged , 
pressed or spun ends com 
monly used as end closure 
of pressure vessels, re 
ceivers , tanks and similar 
cquipments . ( Price 

Rs. 3 : 50 ) 
This standard specifies a 

series of diameter and 
pitch combinations for 
ISO metric screw threads 
in the diameter range I to 

300 mm . (Price Rs. 2 . 50 ) 
This standard gives the 

basic dimensions for 
design profiles for ISO 
mctric screw threads 
in the diameter range 
I to 300 mm . (Price 
Rs. 5 : 00 ) 
This standard covers the 
requirements for heat 
resistant alloy steel cast 
ings for use at tempera 
tures 600° to i 150°C . 

( Price Rs. 7 . 00 ) 
This standard prescribes 

the requirements and 
the methods of tent and 
sampling for ball clays 
used in ceramic industry . 

(Price Rs. 8 . 00 ) 
This standard laye down 
the details for the 
positioning and screening 
of navigation lights . 
( Price Rs. 4 . 00 ) 


17 ( $ :4522 - 1968 Specification 

for heat resistant alloy 
stcel castings 


18 [ S : 4589 - 1968 Specification 

for ball clays for ceramic 
industry 


19 IS : 4601 ( Part I )- 1968 Navi 

gation lights for large 
sea -going power - driven 

vessels 
Part 1 ? ) itioning and scre 

ening of lights 
20 15 : 1699 - 1968 Specification 

for 1 : 1 - il - !1olding device 
for artificial limbs 


21 IS : 4611 - 1967 Specification 

for inetallic zinc powder 
( zinc dust ) 


This standard specifies the 

requirements pertaining 
to material shape , dimen 
sions, workmanship and 
finish of pencil-holding 
terminal device . (Price Rs. 

2 . 00 ) 
This standard prescribes 

the requirements and the 
methods of sampling and 
· test for metallic zinc 
powder commercially 
known as zinc dust 
for use in various in 

dustries . (Price Rs. 5 : 50 ) 
This standard lays down 

material, dimensional and 
manufacturing require 
ments of javeling for 
men s and women s events . 
(Price Rs . 2 . 50 ). 


22 IS :4613 - 1968 Specification 

for Javelins 


4676 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12, 1968/ ASVINA 20 , 1890 [PART II 


23 IS : 4615 - 1968 Specification " 

for switch socket - outlets 
(no 1 - Interlocking type) 


24 IS : 4630 - 1968 Specification 

for barbell get 


25 I $ : 4631- 1968 Code of 

practice for laying of 
epoxy resin floor toppings 


26 IS : 4632 - 1968 Specification 

for square sliders for 
stitch regulators for gew 
ing machines for house 
hold purposes 


This standard covers the 

requirements for switch 
socket -outlets of the 
non - interlocking type of 
the surface and flush typo 
(shuttered and non - shut 
tered ) having ratings up 
to and Including 30 amper 
ce and suitable for use 
on ac and dc circulto 
at rated voltages not 
exceeding 250 volts . 

(Price Rs. 7 . 50 ) 
This standard lays down 

material, dimensional, 
manuf a cturing , work 
manship and finish , and 
performance requirements 
of barbell set. (Price 

Rs. 2 . 00), 
This standard deals with 

the method of laying 
cpoxy resin Jointless 
floor toppings and the 
precautions to be taken 
whilc laying them . (Price 

Rs. 3 : 50 ) 
This standard specifics the 
requirements for two 
types of square sliders for 
stitch regulators for sew 
ing machines for houge 
hold purpogea . (Price 

Rs. 2 . 50 ) 
This standard prescribes a 
method for determining 
the registance of the 
colour of textiles in all 
forms to the action of 
dry -heat as employed in 
processes designed to 
give textiles stability of 
dimensione or shape , 
such as pleating and 
getting . It is mainly appli 
cable to synthetic fibres 
and textiles containing 
gynthetic fibres . (Price 

Rs. 2 . 00 ) 
This standard prescribes a 
method for determining 
the registance of the colour 
of textiles of all kinds 
and in all forms to the 
action of steam under 
pressure . The materials 
are not pleated during 
test and it is emphasized 
that it is not intended for 
assegging the quality of 
pleating proceso . (Prict 
Rs. 2 : 50 ) 


27 IS :4636 - 1968 Method for 

determination of colour 
fastness of textile materi 
als to dry -heat treatments 


28 ( 3 : 4637 - 1968 Method for 

determination of colour 
fastnegs of textile materi 
als to steam under pres 


gure 


Sec. 3 ( 1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12 , 1968 / ASVINA 20 , 1890 


4677 


I 


I 


29 IS : 4641- 1968 Method for 

describing and designating 
knotted netting for fishing 
nets 


30 IS :4642 - 1968 Specification 

for ball, pebble and tube 
i mills 


31 IS :4643- 1968 Specification 

forguction wrenches for 
fire brigade uge 


32 ( $ :4644 - 1968 Code of safety 

for benzene, toluene and 
xylene 


33 IS :4645- 1968 Code ofprac 

tice for storage of paper 
and board 


This standard is intended 

to facilitate the exchange 
of information betwcen 
purchasers and suppliers 
of knotted netting used 
for making into fishing 

Dets . (Price Rs, 2 .00 
This standard covers ball 
and tube mills used for 
Ane grinding . ( Price 

Rs. 4 : 00 ) 
This standard lays down 

the requirements IC 
garding materials , shape 
and dimensions, con 
struction and workman 
ship of conventional ( fixed ) 
and universal (law ) type 
of suction wrenches used 
by the Fire Services . 

(Price Rs. 2 . 50 ) 
This standard prescribes a 

code of safety for benzene, 
toluene and xylene. It 
describes the properties 
and eggential infor 
mation for their safe 
handling and use . ( Price 

Rs. 6 . 50 ) 
Thiş standard lays down the 

recommended Practices 
to be followed for the 
storage of paper and 

board . (Price Rs. 2 . 00 ) 
This standard prescribe s 
methods for chemical ana 
lysis of silver and copper 
in various grades of cop 
per - phosphorus brazing 
alloys as specified . in . 
IS : 2927 - 1964. (Price Rs. 

2 . 50 ). 
This standard gives the 
dimensions and material 
for the detachable type 
steel ladder8 Uged as 
access to holds in inland 

VC88cl8 . (Price Rs. 2 . 00 ) 
This guide prescribes , for 

single family dwellings 
the electrical installatione 
needed to provide satis 
factory facilities by the 
use of electricity . While 
this guide is primarily 
Intended to apply to 
single family dwellings , 
the criteria arcadeo 
applicable to the indivi 
dual dwellings of multi 
family residency in 80 
far as the letter arc 
self contained . 


34 IS :4646 ( Part I) - 1968 Mc 

thods of chemical analysis 
of copper - phosphorous 
brazing alloys 
Part I Analysis for silver 
and copper 


35 IS :4647 - 1968 Specification 

for detachable steel 
ladder forinland vessels 


36 


IS :4648 - 1968 Guide for 

clectrical layout in regi - 
dential buildings 


4678 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :" OCTOBER 12 , 1968/ ASVINA 20, 1890 (PART II.- - 


This guide is applicable for 

low voltage systems up 
to 250 V both ac and dc . 
(Price Rs. 5 . 50 ) 


37 


IS : 4649 - 1968 Specification 

for adaptors for flexible 
steel conduits 


This standard specifics 
the requirements for 
adaptors of clamp and 
golid types for flexible 
steel conduits intended 
for the protection of 
cables in electrical ins 
tallations . ( Price Rs. 3 : 50 ) 


38 


IS : 4652 - 1968 Specification 

for ethyl p -hydroxybenz 
etc for cosmetic industry 


This standard prescribes 
the requirements and 
the methods of sampling 
and test for ethylp 
hydroxybenzoate for cos 
inetic industry . (Price 
Rs. 4 . 00 ) 


39 


IS : 4653 - 1968 Specification 

for Methyl p -hydroxy 
benzoate for Cosmetic in 
dustry 


This standard prescribes 

the requirements and the 
methods of sampling and 
test for methyl p -hydroxy 
benzoate for cosmetic in 
dustry . (Price Rs. 4 : 00 ) 


40 


IS : 4655 - 1968 Method for 

determination of iron and 
chromium in textileg 


This standard prescribes 
method for determination 
of iron and chromium 
present in textile materials , 
especially dyed in mineral 
khaki and olive green 
shades . (Price Rs. 2 . 50 ) 


41 IS : 4656 - 1968 Specification 

for form vibrators for 
concrete 


This standard lays down 

requirements for material, 
sizes , construction and 
performance of from 
vibrators for concrete . 

(Price Rs. 3 . 50 ). 
This standard specifies 

the shape , dimensions 
and material for wire 
reel fitted on board inland 

vegscly. 
(Price Rs. 2 . 00 ) 


42 IS : 4659 - 1968 Specification 

for wire reel for inland 
vessels 


43 IS : 4668 - 1967 Specification 

for ammonium nitratc for 
explosives 


This standard prescribes 

the requirements and 
the methods of sampling 
and test for ammonium 
nitrare intended prima 
rily for use in explosives . 
(Price Rs. 5 : 50 ). 
This standard specifics 
the raquirements for two 
types of wick fced lubri 
cators for general use . 
(Price Rs. 2 00 ) : 


44 IS : 4673 - 1968 Specification 

for wick feed lubricators 


Sec . 3(1 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 12, 1968 / ASVINA 20, 1890 


4679 


45 IS :4675 - 1968 Specification 

for light split-hook device 
for artificial limbs 


This standard specifies the 

requirements pertaining 
to material, shape , dimen 
sions, workmanship and 
finish for light split 
hook terminal device. 
(Price Rs. 2 . 00 ) 


46 IS : 4676 - 1968 Specification 

for workshop tool-holding 
device for artificial limbs 


This standard specifies the 
requirements pertaining 
Lo matcrial shape , dimen 
sions, workmanship and 
finish for workshop 
tool-holding terminal 
device , (Price Rs. 2 . 00 ) 


47 IS : 4677 - 1968 Specification 

for atcering appliance for 
artificial limbs 


This standard specifies 
thie rcpuirements pertain 
ing to inaterials , shape , 
dimensions, workman 
ship and finish for steer 
ing appliance terminal 
device. (Price Rs . 2 . 00 ) 


48 IS :4678 - 1968 Specification 

for universal device for 
artificial limbs 


This standard specifics the 
requirements pertaining 
to material, shape, dimen 
sions, workmanship , finish 
and performance for un 
iversal terminal device . 
( Price Rs, 2 . 00 ). 


49 IS : 4679 - 1968 Specification 

for spatula ,plaster , dental, 
curved and straight 


This standard specifies 
the requirements for 
dental plaster spatula , 
curved and straight. 
(Price Rs. 2 . 00 ) 


50 


IS :4680 - 1968 Specification 

for Spatula , wax , dental, 
No. 2 


This standard specifies 

the requirements for 
dental wax spatula No. 2 . 
(Price Rs. 2 . 00 ) 


51. IS :4681 - 1968 Method for 

determination of wrinkle 
recovery offabrics (hy 
measuring crease recovery 
angle ) 


This standard prescribes a 

method for determination 
of wrinkle recovery of 
fabrics by determining 
the angle of recovery 
after the removal of 
creasing force . The 
method is especially in 
tended for apparel fabrics . 
(Price Rs. 2 : 50 ) 


Copies of those Indian Standards are available , for sale with the Indian Standards Insti 
tution , Manuk Bhavan , 9 Buhadur Shah Zalar Marg , New Delhi- 1 and also its branch offices 
at ( 1 ) Bombay M itual Terrich , Sandhurst Brilge , Bombay - 7 , (ii) Third und Fourth Floors , 
5 Chowringliec Approach , Calcutta 13 , (iii) Second Floor, Sathyamurthi Bhavan , 54 General 
Patters Road , Malras. 2 and ( iv ) 117 /418B , Sarvodya Nagar, Kanpur. 


[CMD /13 :2 ) 


4680 


S . O . 3609In pursuance of regulation 4 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks ) Regulations, 1955, the Indian Standards if 
Institution hereby notifies that amendment(s ) to the Indian Standard (s ) given in the schedule hereto annexed have been issued under the powers conferred 
by the sub - regulation (1 ) of Regulation 3 of the said Regulations . 

THB SCHEDULE 


Sl. 
No . 


No. and Title of the Indian 

Standard amended 


No, and Date 

of the 
Amendment 


Brief particulars of the 

Amendment 


Date from which the 
amendment shall 

have effe ct 


No, and Date of 

Gazette Notifica 

tion in which the 
establishment of the 
Indian Standard 

was notified 


( 3 ) 


(4 ) 


I IS : 10 - 1964 Specification for Plywood 

tez- chests ( Second repicion ) 


S . O . 229 dated 
16 January 1965 


No , I 

In addition to including an additional size 1 October 1968 
April 1968 

of 40 x 40 x 40 cm . for plywood tea -chests 
which is now extensively used for packing 
tea , the Wood Products Sectional Com 
mittee reviewed certain other provisions 
of the standard which relate to thickness 
of plywood , metal fittings, and compres 
sion test , etc ., and decided to issue this 

amendment 
No. 3 

Clause 2 . 0 has been substituted by a new 1 October 1968 
October 1968 one . 
No. 2 

(Reprint of June 1966 , Page 16 , clause C -II, 5 September 1968 
September 1968 informal table , third line from the top ) 

Substitute Phenol ( conforming to IS : 
538- 1955 ) log for Provisional dye 

( see C - I . I. 2 ) As advised by supplier , 
No. 2 

(Page 8 , clause 7 . 1 . 2 , line 2) Substitute 31 July 1968 
July 1968 40 tonnes for 25 metric tonnes . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:OCTOBER12,1968/ASVINA20,1890(PARTII 


2 IS :203- 1963 Specification for dry S . O . 2595 dated 

batteries for flashlights (revised ) 1 August 1964 
3 IS : 220 - 1959 Specification for ferro - S . O . 2960 dated 

gallo tannate fountain pen ink 10 December 1960 
Co . I per cent iron content) (revised ) 


4. IS :226 - 1962 Specification for struc - S . O . 1760 dated 

turalsteel( standard quality ) ( Tord 29 June 1963 

TEVision ) 
S IS : 280 - 1962 Specification for mild S . O . 1421 dated 

steel wire for general engineering 25 May 1963 

purposes (rearised ) 
6 IS :498 - 1963 Grading for vacuum S . O . 2370 dated 

pan sugar (plantation white ) 24 August 1963 
(second raision ) 


6 September 1968 


No . I 

O Clause 5 . I (C ) has been amended , 
September 1968 (6 ) Table II and clause 13 . I have been 

substituted by new ones . 
No. 3 

Clause 7 . 2 (d ) has been substituted by a dey 
September 1968 One . 


15 September 1968 


7 


No . 4 
October 1968 
No. 3 
October 1968 


11Clarke 2 - 0 523 beea șsubstit:ited by a new 

one. 
A az cla 1:2 3•I I I ha;b aja1121. 


1 October 1968 
October ] 1968 


8 


9 


No, I 
October 1968 


A new cla 13e 2 I II bi b : 2.1 ali: 1. 


1 October 1933 


IS : 556- 1960 Specification for Lac- S . O . 1463 dated 

lanche type radio batteries (revised ) 11 June 1960 
IS : 563 - 1962 Specification for BHC S .O . 3593 dated 

water dispersible powder concent - I December 1952 

rates (second revision ). 
IS :637- 1966 Specification for BHC S . O . 469 dated 
emulsifiable concentrates ( second II February 1967 

TEOLSZ0n ) 
IS : 961 - 1962 Specification for struc - S . O . 415 dated 

tural steel (bigh tensile ) (Tepised ) February 1964 
IS : 1190- 1957 Specification for twin S. O . 1349 dated 

wire healds for use in cotton and 12 July 1958 
silk weaving ( excluding jacquard 
and fancy weaving ) 


IO 


II 


No. 2 
July 1968 
No. 3 
October 1968 


Clauses 0 - 3, 0 - 4 , II, II I, 3 : 1 - 1, S . 1, 31 July 1968 

5 : 2 and 9 . I have been amended. 
( Page 3 , clause 4 . 5 and Fig . 1) - Delete the I October 1968 

clause and the figure and re -number Fig . 
2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 and 7 as Fig . 1, 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 and 
6 respectively wherever they appear in 
the standard . 
[Page 3 , clause 0 - 6 , last but one line (page 4 I October 1968 
of the Reprint) Substitute B . S . 1197 : 

1955 for B . S . 1107- 1955 . 
(Page 25, table 7 , dimension V against 5A I October 1968 

rating) - Substitute 26 33 for 36 . 33 . 


I2 IS : 1217- 1959 Specification for cement S . O . 485 dated 
concrete fooring tiles. 

27 February 1960 


No. 3 
October 1968 


Sec.3(i)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:OCTOBER12,1968/ASVINA20,1890 


No , I 
October 1968 


s posing dated 


No. 1 
October 1968 


13 IS :1293 - 1967 Specification for three - S . O . 520 dated 

pin plugs and socket-out -lets 10 February 1958 

first revision ) 
14 IS : 1370 - 1965 Specification for S . O . 1081 dated 

friction surface rubber transmission 9 April 1966 

belting (redised ) 
15 IS : 1804- 1961 Spscification for fibre S . O . 2011 dated 
cores for steel wire ropes 

26 August 1961 
16 IS : 1866 - 1961 Code of practice for S . O . 416 dated 

maintenance of insulating oil IO Feb 


detober 1968 


No . 2 
September 1968 
No . I 
October 1968 


(Page 12 , clause C - 5 - 1, line 2 ) Substitute I October 1968 
* 25 mm /min to 125 mm /min for 25 mm / 

min to 12 . 5 mm /min . 
( Page 8 , clause B - I, line 2 )- Substitute 1 September 1968 

94°C for 62000 F . 
1) Clauses 0 - 3 , II, 3 . 0 . 2 and 6 . 2 have 1 October 1968 

been amended 
( 11) Clause 6 .II has been substituted by a 

new one . 
Clauses 2•1 and 2- 3 have been substituted 31 August 1968 

by new ones . 


962 


17 


No , I 
August 1968 


IS : 1885 (Part XII - 1966 Electro - S . O , 2789 dated 

technical yocabulary Part XII 19 August 1967 

Ferromagnetic oxide materials 
IS : 1892 - 1962 Code of practice for S . O . 483 dated 

site investigations for foundations 16 February 1963 


18 


No, I 
October 1968 


1 October 1968 


(1) Clauses 3 . 2 . 4 . 2 . 1 1 , 4 . 2 . 1. 2 , 6 :21, 

B - 2 1 . 2 and Appendix A bave been 

amended , 
( it) Clause 3 : 5 . I and footnotes at Page 14 

have been substituted by new ones . 


4681 


4682 


( 1 ) 


( 6 ) 


Dabas dated 


NO. I 


August 1968 
October 1968 


No. 4 


. 


19 IS : 1895 - 1951 Sp :cification for cotton $ . 0 . 635 dated 
taps hewar , grey or dyed 

3 March 1952 
20 IS : 1936 - 1961 Specification for inset S . O . 3100 dated 

mail wire healds for use in cotton , 13 October 1952 
silk , vɔɔllen and worsted weaving 
(excluding jacquard and fancy 

Weaving ) . 
21 IS : 2071- 1962 Methods of high S. O . 483 dated 
voltage testing . 

16 February 1963 
22 IS : 2087 - 1956 Socification for S . O . 4023 dated 

square tins for general purposes 31 December 1966 
ravised ) . 


- 


No. I 


Clauses 7 .4 and A 3 - 3 have been substituted 31 August 1968 

by new ones. 
(Page 3, clause 4 . 5 and Fig . 1 ) Delete the 1 October 1968 
clause and the figure and re -number 

Fig . 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7A , 7B , 8 and 9 as Fig . 
1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6A , 6B , 7 and 8 rospectively 

wherever they appear in the standard . 
Clause 4 . 2. 21 and Fig . I have been sub - 15 September 1968 
stituted by new ones . 

Clauses 4 . 3 194 3 4 and Fig . 1 B and ID 31 August 1968 

have been amended 
( it ) Clause 4 : 9 has been substituted by a 

new one , 
Tables I , II, III , IV , V and VI have been 31 August 1968 

amended . 


-- 


- 


- 


September 1968 
No, I 
August 1968 


- 


23 IS : 2266 - 1963 Specification for steel S . O . 3599 dated 

wire ropes for general engineering 28 December 1963 
purposes . 


No. 4 
August 1968 


24 IS :2567- 1963 Specification for Mala - S . O . 1102 dated 

thion emilsifiable concentrates . 28 March 1964 
25 IS : 2595 - 1954 Specification for bulbs S . O , 1840 dated 

(lamps) for miners cap - lamps. 30 May 1964 


No, 2 
October 1968 
No. 2 
September 1968 


Clause D - 3 3 has been substituted by a I October 1968 

new one, 
Second sentence of clause 0 - 5 and note 6 September 1968 
under table III have been substituted by 

new ones . 
(Page 4 , Table I , third entry under column 1 September 1968 
heading Samples for Bagged Grain ) 

substitute fo - 75 for I . 
Fig . I has been substituted by a new one I October 1968 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:OCTOBER12,1968/ASVINA20,1890[PARTIL-- 


26 2815 - 1964 Specification for slotted 

tube sampler . 


S . O . 4120 dated 
5 December 1964 


No. 2 
September 1968 


No. I 
October 1968 
No , I 
September 1968 
No . 2 
October 1968 


9 September 1968 


27 IS :2922- 1964 . Specification for S . O . 1152 dated 
wooden tent mallets . 

10 April 1965 
28 IS :2938 - 1965 Specification for cold S . O . 2042 dated 

forged steel rivets for cold clozing . 26 June 1965 
29 IS :3293 - 1955 Specification for S . O . IOSI dated 

oscillating rock shafts for sewing 9 April 1966 

machines for household purposes . 
30 IS : 33 : 9 - 1955 Specification for sur- S . O . 2602 dated 

gical scalpels with detachable blades 27 August 1966 
(bard packer type ). 


(Page 8 , table 3 , fifth column , third entry 

from the top -zubstitute I 25 for 212 
Clause 6 . 2 has been substituted by a new 

one , 


-- 


1 October 1968 


- 


1903 19 


No. I 
September 1968 


September 1968 (Page 3, clause 2:2) de 

(Page 3 , clause 2 : 2 )- delete or 2. 6 . 


15 September 1968 


Tables 9 , 10 and II have been amended 


1 October 1968. 


31 IS . 3455 -1966 Tolerances for plain S . O . 2417 dated 
limit gauges . 

22 July 1967 
32 IS: 3575 - 1966 Method for determina - S . O . 241 dated 

tion of bundle strength ( tenacity ) 21 January 1967 

of cotton fibres. 
33 IS : 38 43 - 1966 Specification for steel S . O . 1325 dated 
back fap hinges . 

15 April 1967 


No, I 
October 1968 
No , I 
October 1968 


NO. I 


11. 


October 1968 


( Page 8 , Note onder ro 1 . 1 ; and page 9 1 October 1968. 
Note under 10 . 1 . 

2 Substitute 9 kgf . 
cm (8 b£ in ) for I 5 kgf. com (8 lbf. in ) . 
[Page 4 , table 1, col. 5, entry against Sl. No. 1 October 1968. 

01- substitute St 42 - S of IS :226- 1962 ) 

for Steel B of IS :226 - 1962 * . 
Clause 6 . 1 - 2 2 has been substituted by a 15 September 1968 . 

Der One 
Clauses 6°1 and 12 - 3 have been amended . I October 1968 . 


34 IS :3938 - 1967 Specification for S . O . 2950 dated 
electric wire rope hoists . 

26 August 1967 
35 IS : 123 - 1967 Specification for locks, S. O . 287 dated 
miller type . 

20 January 1968 
36 IS :4333 (Part II) -1967 Methods of S . O . 683 dated 

analysis for goodgrains Part II 24 February 1968 

Moistuie , 
37 IS :4343 - 1967 Specification for needle S . O . 683 dated 

bar links for sewing machines for 24 February 1968 
household purposes . 


No, I 
September 1968 
No. I 
October 1968 
NO. I . 
September 1968 


(Page 5 , clause 3 . 3 . 1. 1 , line 2 ) Substitute 

suitably for suitable , . 


1 September 1968 . 


NO, I 
NO, 

I O 
October 1968 


1 October 1968, 


(Page 6 , table 2 , fifth column )- Substituie 
(Page for login 
the following for the existing entries : 

D 
15 . 554 
13 . 005 


Spc.3fil)]THEGAZETTROPINDIA:OCTOBER12,1968/ASVINA20,1890 


Copies of these amendment slips are available with the Indian Standards Institution , Manak Bhavan , 9 , Bahadur Shah Zaffar Marg , New Delhi- 1 and 
ulso its branch offices at (i) Bombay Mutual Terrace , Sandhurst Bridge, Bombay 7 , ( ii ) Third and fourth Floors , 5 Chowringhee Approach , Calcutta - 13 , 
(tii) Second Floor, Sathymurthy Bhavan , 54 General Patters Road , Madras, (iv ) 157 /418 - B Sarvodaya Nagar , Ranpur, and ( v ) Iodastrial Estate , Administra 
tive Building , Sanatnagar , Hyderabad . 

[CMD / 13: 5.] 


4689 


4684 THE GAZETTE OP INDIA ; OCT. 12, 1968 / ASVINA 20 , 1890 (PART II — SBC . 3 ( 11 )] 


New Delhi, the 26th September 1968 
: 0 . 3610 . - In pursuance of sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 4 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certifica 
tion Marks) Rules, 1955 the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that the Standard 
Mark (s) , design (s ) ofwhich together with the verbal description of the design (s ) and the titlc (8) 
of the relevant Indian Standard ( ) are given in the Schedule hercto Annexed . have been 
specified . 

These Standard Mark (s ) for the purpose of the Indian Standards Institution (Certfication 
Marks ) Act, 1952 and the Rules and Regulations framed thereunder , shall come into force with 
effect from the datcs shown against each : 


THE SCHEDULE 


Si, Design of 
No, the 

Standard 
Mark 


Product/ Class of 

Product 


No. & Title of the 
Relevant Indian 

Standard 


Verbal description of 
the Design of the 
Standard Mark 


Date of 
Effect 


I 


3 


IIS : 2635 


de electric welding IS : 2635 - 1966 Spe- The monogram of the 16 Sep ., 
getierators . 

fication for de elec Indian Standard In - 1968 
tric welding genc stitution , consisting 
rators (revised ). of letters ISI ,drawn 

in the exact style 
and relative propor 
dong as indicated 
in col. (2 ), the 
number designa 
tion of the Indian 
Standard belag 
guperscribed on the 
top side of the 
monogram as indi 

cated in the design . 
Air -break switches IS : 4064 - 1967 $ pe 

Do. 

I Oct., 
and composite units cification for nor 

1968 
of air - break switch - nal duty air - brcak 
es and fuses for switches and com 
voltages not exceed . posite units of ait . 
ing 1000 volts . break switches and 

fuses for voltages 
not exceeding 1000 
volts , 


2 


IS : 4064 


[No. CMD / 17: 2 ] 
(Dr.) A . K . GUPTA , 
Deputy Director General. 


PRINTED BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAOIR OF PUBLICATIONI, DELXI, 1900 


