N«. D. , 




UKt (Safrttr W of JEtibia 

***** I r ,. V 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

IC*l 35] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1958/ASVINA 19, 1880 


NOTICE 

The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 29th 
jSepteonber 195S : — 


Issue 

Wo. 

Ho. and date 


Issued by 

Subject 

144 

G-S.R. 856, dated 
September, 1958. 

27th 

Ministry of Einuncc (Deptt. 
of Revenue). 

Exemption of goods speci- 
fied therein from certain 
duty of customs. 

■145 

G.S.R. 857, dated 
September, 1958 . 

28th 

Do. 

Fixation of rates of duty 
on tea. 


G.S.R. 858, dated 
September, 195S, 

28 th 

Do. 

Amendment in the Central 
Excise Rules, 1944. 


■G.S.R. 859, dated 
September, 1958. 

28 th 

Do. 

Amendment in the Minis- 
try of Finance (Rev. Div.) 
Notification No. to— Cen- 
tral Excise, dated 5th 
April, 1949. 


«G.S.R. 860, dared 
September, 1958. 

28 th 

Do. 

Amendment in the Minis- 
try of Finance (Revenue 
Division) Notification 

No. 45 — Central Excise, 
dated 1st November, 1954. 


G.S-R. 861, dated 
September, 1958- 

28th 

Do. 

Amendment in the Central 
Excise Rules, 1944- 


<r.S.R. 862, dated 
September, 1958. 

28 th 

Do. 

Rescinding the Notification 
of the Ministry of Fi- 
nance, G. S. R. No. 435 , 
dated 1st June, 1958. 


<t-S.R. 863, dated 
September, 1958. 

28th 

Do. 

. Fixation of rate of duty 
of customs leviable on 
tea. 


G.S.R. 864, dated 
September, 1958. 

28 th 

Do. 

Exemption of tea from duty 
of customs leviable un- 
der Indian Tariff Act, 
1934- 


C 347) 


g 4 g THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 11, J958/ASVINA 19, 1880 [Part H 


Issue Nu. and date Issued by Subject 

No. 


146 G.S.R. 86s, dated 29th 
September, 1958. 


Ministry of Finance (Deptt. 
of Economic Affairs) 


Grant of recognition to 
the Hyderabad Stock 
Exchange Ltd., in res- 
pect of contracts in 
Securities subject to con- 
ditions speci/icd therein. 


G.S.R. 866, dated 29th Do. 

September, 1958. 


G.S.R. 867, dated 29th Do, 

September, 1958. 


G.S.R. 868, dated 29th Do. 

September, 1958. 


Declaration that Sec. 13 
of the Securities Con- 
tracts Act, 19^6 shall 
apply to the It mits of 
Municipal Corp orations, 
of Hyderabad and Se- 
cunderabad. 

Appointment of date on 
which Sec. jy of the - - 
Securities Contracts Act, 
1956 shall come into force 
in the limits of Municipal 
Corporations ol" Hyder- 
abad and Sccim derabad. 

Specification of dale on 
which the Hyderabad Se- 
curities Contracts Regu- 
lation Act, 1353 Fasii, 
shall stand repealed. 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
Indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be 
•ubmltted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of these 
Gazettes. 


PART H — Section 3 — Sub-section (i) 

General Statutory Rules (Including orders, bye-laws etc- of a general 
character) issued by the Ministries of the Government of India (other 
than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central Authorities (other than 
the Administrations of Union Territories). 


ministry of homf. affairs 

New Delhi, the 29 th September 3958 

G.S.R. 902 .— In pursuance of sub-rule ( 1 ) of rule 3 of the Indian Adminis- 
trative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1054 the Central Government, in consultation 
with the Government of Jammu and Kashmir, hereby constitutes for the State 
of Jammu and Kashmir an Indian Administrative Service Cadre with effect from 
the 4 th September, 1958 . 

[No. 5 / 25 / 58 - AIS (II.] 


New Delhi, the 30 th September 1058 

G.S.R. 903 . — In pursuance of sub-rule ( 1 ) of rule 9 of the Indian Police 
Service (Recruitment) Rules, 1954 , the Central Government, in consultation with, 
the Government of Kerala and the Union Public Service Commission, hereby 
makes the loll owing amendment in the Indian Police Service (Appointment by 
Promotion) Regulations, 1965 . 



Jtop- S(i)l 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA.' OCTOHER11, 1358/ASVINA 19,l«f0 


Amendment 


In the Schedule to the said Regulations, for the entries in column 3 against 
“Kerala" in column 2, the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

“(1) Chief Secretary to the •Government of Kerala. 

(2) Secretary to the Government of Kerala in the Home Department. 

(3) Inspector General of Police.’’ 

[No. 13/35/58- AIS( III).] 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 30th September 1958 

G.S.R. 904 . — In the Ministry of Home Affairs’ Notification No. 1/4/55- 
AIS(III) ; dated the 18th August, 1958, regarding the All India Services (Death- 
euru-Retirement Benefits) Rules, 1958, published at pages 337 to 300 of sub- 
section (i) of Section 3 of Part II of the Gazette of India, Extraordinary dated 
the 20th August, 1958, the following corrections shall be made, namely: — 

1. p. 337 in clause (bl of sub-rule (2) of rule 1 — 

(i) insert ‘of sub-rule (1) of rule 3’ after ‘(b) and (c)’ occurring in the 

beginning of the second line of sub-clausa (i); 

(ii) insert ‘of sub-rule (1)’ after ‘clause (a)’ occurring in the fourth line 

of sub-clause (i); 

(iii) insert ‘or were appointed to the Service’ after ‘State Services’ occur- 

ring in the beginning of the second line of sub-clause (iii), 

2. p. 345 in sub-rule (2) of rule 19 — 

(i) insert ‘of clause (a)’ after ‘items (i), (ii) and (iii)’ occurring In 

clause (i); 

(ii) insert ‘of clause (a)’ after ‘items (iv), (v) and (vi)’ occurring In 

clause (ii). 

3. p. 348 in rule 22— 

(i) for ‘Schedule A’ occurring in the fourth line of sub-rule (7), read 

“Schedule H”; 

(ii) for ‘person’ occurring in the first line of clause (a) of sub-rule (8), 

read ‘pension’. 

4. p. 349 In clause (iv) of the Note under sub-rule (4) of rule 23, for ‘clauses 
(a), (b) and (c)’ occurring in the first line, read ‘clauses (i), (ii) and (iii)’. 

5. p. 351 in clause (v) of rule 24, for ‘communication’ occurring in the sixth 
line, read “commutation". 

0, p. 353 in Schedule A, delete the words ‘gratuity or’ occurring in the head- 
ing common to columns 3 and 4. 

7. p. 355 in the ‘Note’ in item (b) of Schedule C, for the word ‘substi-’ 
occurring at the end of the first line, read “add the”. 

8. p, 35G in Schedule E, delete the asterisk against the word ‘payable’ in 

column 4. 

9. p. 358 in Schedule G, for ‘admissile’ occurring in the fourth line, read 
"admissible". 

10. p. 359 in Schedule H, for ‘wheather’ occurring in column 4, read 

“whether”. 

11. p. 360 in Schedule J, for ‘superanuation’ occurring in the beginning of 
item (iii) in column 1, read “superannuation”. 


[No. 1/4/55- AIS (III)] 
S. P. MUKERJEE, Under Secy. 



85 ° 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, I938/ASVTNA 19, 1880 [Pa«t II 


Ne to Delhi, the 6th October 1958 j 

G.S.R. 905. — -In exercise ol the powers conferred by section 3 of the Indian 
Passport Act, 1920 (34 of 1920), the Central Government hereby makes the follow- 
ing the recruitment to the Indian Defence Accounts Service, namely: — 

In sub-rule (1) of rule 4 of the said Rules, after clause (b), the following 
clauses shall be inserted, namely: — - 

“(c) persons domiciled in India, proceeding from any Portuguese Establish- 
ment in India; 

(d) persons domiciled in any Portuguese Establishment in India, other 
than persons in the service of the Government of any such Establish- 
ment or a member of the family of any such person, proceeding from 
any such Establishment;’'. 

I [No. 4/1/58-F.I.] 

FATEH SINGH, Jt. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (DEFENCE) 

New Delhi, the 30th September 1958 

G.S.R. 906.— In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 
309 of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules regulat- 
ing the recruitment to the Indian Defence Accounts Service, namely. 

Part I 

General 

1. The-c Rules may bo called the Indian Defence Accounts Service (Recruit- 
ment) Rules. 

2. For the purpose of these Rules — - 

(a) “Government” means the Government of India; 

(b) "The Commission” means the Union Public Service Commission. 

(c) “The Service" means the Indian Defence Accounts Service, 

(d) The various grades of posts included in the Service, the pay scales 

attached to them, their classification and the special conditions of 
service attaching to them shall be as indicated in Appendix I of these 
Rules. 

(e) “Scheduled Castes” mean castes, communities, races, sects etc. notified 

as such by the President of India. 

(f) “Scheduled Tribes” mean castes, communities, races, sects etc. notified 

as such by the President of India. 

3. The Service shall be recruited by the following methods: — 

(i) By competitive examinations held in India in accordance with Part II of 
these Rules. 

(ii) By promotion in accodrance with Part III of these Rules. 

4. 75 per cent, of the vacancies in the Service will be filled by competitive 
examination vide Part II of the Rules and 25 per eent. will be reserved for pro- 
motion vide Part III ol the Rules. 

5. Subject to the provisions of Rules 3 and 4, Government shall determine In 
consultation with the Commission the method or methods to be employed for the 

E urpose of filling any particular vacancies, or such vacancies as may require to 
e filled during any particular period and the number of candidates to be recruit- 
ed by each method. 

6. Appointments to the Service made otherwise than by promotion will be 
subject to the orders issued from time to time by the Ministry of Home Affairs 
regarding special representation in the Services for specific sections of the people. 



Sec. 5<i)3 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, IS58/ASVINA 19, IftM 8 ji 


Past II 


7. A competitive examination for admission to the Service shall be held in 
India at such times and places as Government may prescribe by notice issued 
hi consultation with the Commission.^ Every such notice will announce the 
precise number of vacancies to be filled on the result of the examination and 
whenever it is not found practicable, indicate the approximate number of vacan- 
cies. 

8. If the examination held under this part of these Rules is a combined 
examination for the purpose of making appointments to more than one Service 
or Department, the following provisions shall apply: — 

(i) Any person may apply to be admitted as a candidate for appointment 

to all or any of these Service or Departments for which he is eligi- 
ble. If he wishes to compete for appointment to more than one 
Service or Department, he shall state in his application form which 
Services or Departments he wishes to compete for, and the order of 
his preference between them, and in such case only one applica- 
tion form will be necessary and one payment of the fees referred 
to in rule 18 (and Appendix IX) will be sufficient. 

(ii) Government will assign successful candidates to each Service or 
Depurlment on a consideration of all circumstances, including any 
personal preference expressed by the candidate. 

9. The maximum number of candidates to be admitted to any examination 
may, at the discretion of the Commission, be limited to such number but not 
less than 200, as the Commission may decide. If a limit is imposed and the 
number of candidates exceeds that limit, the Commission shall select from the 
applicants those who shall be admitted to the examination, and in doing 
so shall have regard to the suifablity of the applicants and to the adequate 
representation of the Scheduled Castes and Tribes and of the States of India. 

10. (i) A candidate must apply to be admitted to the examination before 
such date in such manner and in such form as the Commission may prescribe. 

(ii) If a candidate i:; in permanent or temporary service of the Government 
of India or a State Government, he shall apply to the Commission for admission 
to the examination through the Head of the Department, who shall forward the 
application with appropriate recommendation, unless the application is with- 
held for adequate reasons, in which case the applicant shall be informed of 
such reasons. 

(iii) If a candidate is not in Government service he shall apply to the Com- 
mission direct. 

(iv) No candidate may malm more than one application in respect of any 
one occasion on which an examination is held. 

•Note.- — The submission of an application by persons in Government service 

Is further " . d h '’"c Government. Servants’ Application for postR (Centra t 

Services/'- . >' ■•<) Rules published with the Government of India., 

Home Department Notification No. F. lfi9/43/E r ts dated the 8th December, 1943. 

Railway Department (Railway Bd.) Mo. E. 34-R. R\ I. dated the 22nd Janua- 
ry, 1945. as amended from time to time, and the corresponding rules made by 
tt)e State Governments. 

11. A candidate must be either: — 

(i) a Citizen of India; or 

(ii) a Subject of Sikkim; or 

(iii) a person who has migrated from areas which now form Pakistan, 

with the intention of permanently settling down in India; nr 

(iv) a subect of Nepal or of a Portuguese or a former French Possession 

in India. 

Note. — 1. The appointment of a candidate falling in category (iii) or (iv) 
above will be subject to the issue of a certificate of eligibility in his favour by the 
Government of India. Ccrt’ficates of eligibility will not however be necessary 
in the case of candidates belonging to any of the following categories. 

(a) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan before 19th July 1948 
and have ordinarily been resident in India since then. 



S 52 the GAZETTE OF INDIA i OCTOBER 11 , IMS/ AS VINA 19, 1880 [Pmit II 


(b) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan after 1 8th July 1948 but 

before 30th September 1948 and got themselves registered as citizens 
within the time allowed. 

(c) Non-citizens who entered service under the Government of India 

before the commencement of the Constitution, oir-26th January, 1950, 
and who have continued in such service since then. Any such per- 
sons who re-entered, or may re-enter such service with a break,, 
after the 28th January, 1950, will however require certificates or 
eligibility in the usual way. 

Note.— 2. A candidate in whose ease a certificate of eligibility is necessary- 
may be admitted to the examination and he may also be provisionally appointed 
subject to the necessary certificate being eventually issued in his favour by 
Government. 

12. No candidate who has more than one wile living shall be eligible for 
appointment to this Service unless the Government of India, after being satisfied 
that there are special grounds for doing so, exempt any candidate from the 
operation of this rule. 

13. A candidate must have attained the age of 21 and must not have attained 
the age of 24 on the date prescribed for this purpose in the notice issued by the 
Commission under rule 7. 

Provided that a candidate who is over the age of 24 and under the age of 27 
on that date may be admitted to the examination if he holds substantively a 
permanent post under the Central/State Government, or has been in continuous 
service for a period of not less than two years on the prescribed date in thb 
Defence Accounts Department, if he is recommended by the Controller General 
of Defence Accounts, where he is not so recommended, reason for with-holding 
an application should be communicated to the candidate. No Government ser- 
vant will be admitted to the examination if he has already appeared at two 
previous examinations under the age concession applicable to such candidates. 

Note. — -(1) The upper age limit will be relaxablr upto a maximum of five 
years if a candidate belongs to a scheduled caste or a scheduled tribe. 

(2) Candidates who are bona fide displaced persons from Pakistan will be 
allowed the age concessions, if any, which Government may sanction from time 
to time (ride Appendix V). Save as provided above, the age limits prescrib- 
ed can in no case be relaxed. 

14. A candidate must satisfv the Commission that his character is such as to 
make him suitable for appointment to the Service. 

15. A candidate must be a graduate of one of the Universities enumerated in 
Appendix II. 

Provided that in exceptional eases the Commission may, on the recommenda- 
tion of the Central Government or a State Government, treat as a qualified candi- 
date, a candidate, who though he has not all or any of the qualifications prescribed 
in this rute, has passed examinations conducted by other institutions of a standard 
which in the opinion ol the Commission justifies his admission to the examina- 
tion. 

Note. — Candidates who are otherwise qualified but who have taken decreea 
from foreign universities which ore not included in Appendix II, may apply direct 
to the Commission and may be admitted to the examination at the discretion of 
the Commission. 

16. No candidate shall be admitted to the examination unless he holds a 
certificate of admission from the Commission. 

The decision of the Commission as to the eligibility or otherwise of a candidate 
for admission to the examination shall be final. 

17. No recommendations except those invited in the form of application shall 
be taken into consideration. Any attempt on the part of a candidate to obtain 
support for his candidature by other means may disqualify him for admission. 

18. Candidates must pay such examination fees as Government may prescribe 
(see Appendix IV). No claim for a refund of any of these fees will ordinarily 
be entertained, nor can they be held in reserve for any other examination. 



Sfc. 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 11. 1958/ASVINA 13, . 1880 


85 $ 


19. Examinations under these Rules shall be conducted by the Commission In 
the manner px'escribed in the regulations which form Appendix III to these 
Rules. 


20. ti) After every examination the Commission shall make a list of the can- 
didates in order of their merit as disclosed by the aggregate marks finally award- 
ed to each candidate and in that order so many candidates upto the number of 
vacancies announced under rule 7 above, as are found by the Commission to be 
qualified by the examination and a v e considered by the Government to the 
appointing authority as the case may be to be suitable in all other respects, shall 
"be appointed. 

(ii) For the purposes of rule 6 of these Rules, appointment to vacancies to be 
Filled by specific section of the people shall be made by Government or the appoin- 
ting authority, as the ease may be, in the order of merit of the candidates belong- 
ing to the particular section or sections provided they have qualified in the exami- 
nation and are in all respects suitable for employment in the Service. 

21. A candidate must be in good mental and bodily health, and free from any 
physical defect likely to interfere with the discharge of his duties as an officer of 
the Service. A candidate who (after such physical examination as Government 
or the appointing authority, as the case may be, may prescribe) is found not to 
satisfy these requirements will not be appointed. Only candidates who are like- 
ly to be considered for appointment will be physically examined. As acceptance 
of an appointment in the Indian Defence Accounts Service carries with it a defi- 
nite liability for service in any part of India, as well as for field service in of 
out of India, the report of the medical board should indicated fitness or other- 
wise for field service. 


*Tn order to prevent disappointment, candidates are advise to have themselves 
examined by a Government medical officer of the standing of a Civil Surgeon, 
before applying for admission to the examination. Particulars of the nature of 
the physical test to which candidates will be submitted before appointment and of 
the standards required can be had from the Commission. 

22. Appointments shall be made on probation for a period of 2 years, provided 
that this period may be extended to three years if the officer on probation has 
not qualified for confiirmation by passing the prescribed departmental examina- 
tion. Repeated failure to pass the departmental examination within a period of 
3 years from the date of appointment on probation will involve loss of appoint- 
ment. 


Note. — (a) A candidate who is already in permanent Government service and 
is selected for appointment, in the Indian Defence Accounts Service on the 
results of the Competitive examination held by the Union Public Service Com- 
mission, will also be appointed as a probationer and the instructions for the 
training of probationers and rules for their Departmental Examinations will apply 
equally in his case. 

(b) On the conclusion of his period of probation Government may confirm 
the officer in his appointment from the date of joining the service. If, however, 
■during or at the end of the probationary period his work or conduct has in the 
■opinion of Government been unsatisfactory. Government may either discharge 
him from the service or may extend his period of probation for such further 
period as Government may think fit, provided that before orders of discharge are 
passed, the probationer shall be apprised by the competent authorities of the 
grounds on which it is proposed to discharge him and give an opportunity to 
show cause against it, 

(e) If no action is taken by Government under sub-rule (b) of this rule, the 
period after the prescribed period of probation shall be treated as an engagement 
■from month to month, terminable on either side on the expiration of one calen- 
dar months notice in writing. 

(d) If the power to make appointments in the Service/Deparment is delegat- 
ed by Government to any officer, that officer may exercise any of the powers of 
Government under this rule. 

23, Candidates are informed that some knowledge of Hindi prior to entry into 
service would be of advantage in passing departmental examinations which can- 
didates have to take after entry into service. 



8^4 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 11, I958/ASVINA 19, 18*0 [Pabt B 

Part III 

Recruitment by Promotion 

24. Recruitment by promotion to the Service shall be made from among (he 
members of the Subordinate Gazetted Service, by selection on merit with doe 
regard to seniority on the recommendation of a Departmental. Promotion Com- 
mittee presided over by the Chairman or a Member of the Union Public Service- 
Commission and composed of: — 

Cl) The Controller General of Defence Accounts. 

(2) Command Controllers. 

Any other Controller whose presence is considered necessary by the Con- 
troller General of Defence Accounts may attend to assist in. the 
deliberations of the Committee. 

Ordinarily those who have attained the age of 50 years, on the 1st January 
of the years to which the promotion relates, will not be considered 
for promotion. 

Recruitment by promotion to the administrative posts in the Service shall 
likewise be made by selection on merit on the recommendation of a duly constitu- 
ed Depatmontal Promotion Committee. 

The recommendation of the Promotion Committee will be submitted to Govern- 
ment for approval, and concurrence of the Union Public Service Commissjua 
will also be obtained where the Union Public Service Commission ( Consultation) 
Regulations require that the Commission should be consulted before making the 
final selection. 

25. If the power to make appointments in the Service is delegated by Gov- 
ernment to any officer, that officer may exercise any power of Government under 
this part of these rules. 

Appendix 1 

Junior Scale:— Rs. 350— 350— 380— 380— 30— 590— E.B.— 20— 770— 40— 850. 

Senior Scale:— Rs. 000—40—1,000—1,000—1,050—1,050—1,100—1,100—1,150, 
Junior Administrative Grade:— Rs. 1.300 — 60 — 1,600. 

Command Controllers:— Rs. 1,800- — 100 — 2000. 

Controller General: of Defence Accounts: Scale of pay not yet fixed. 

Note,- — P robationary officers will start on the minimum of, the Junior scale ami 
will count their service for increment from the date of joining. 

Appendix II 

List of Universities approved by the Government of India. 

Indian Universities. 

Any Universily incorporated by an Act of the Central or State Legislature lit 
India. 

University in Burm.a.— 

Tlie University of Rangoon. 

English and Welsh Universities . — 

The Universities of Birmingham, Bristol, Cambridge, Durham, Leeds, Liver- 
pool, Lon Ion, Manchester, Oxford, Reading, Sheffield und Wales. 

Scottish Universities . — 

The Universities of Aberdeen, Edinburgh, Glasgow and St. Andrews. 

Irish Universities . — 

Tlie University of Dublin (Trinity College). 

The National University of Dublin. 

Tlie Queen’s University, Belfast. 

Universities in Pakistan . — 

The University of Punjab. 

The Dacca University. 

The University of Sind. 



Sec. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 11, 1058/ASVINA 19, 1880 85 S 


Appendix III 

1. The following will be the subjects for examination: — 

Compulsory Marks 

1. English Essay 150 

2. General English 150 

3. General Knowledge 150 

Optional 

4. Pure Mathematics 200 

5. Applied Mathematics 200 

6 . Chemistry 

7. Physics 200 

8 . Botany 200 

9. Zoology 200 

10. Geology 200 

11. English Literature 200 

12. Indian History 200 

13. British History 200 

14. World History 200 

15. International Law 200 

16. General Economics 290 

17. Political Science 200 

18. Law 200 

19. Philosophy 200 

20. Geography 200 

21. One of the following: — 

Latin, French, Sanskrit, Arabic, Spanish, Russian 

Persian, German or Chinese 200 

22. Statistics 200 

23. Advanced Accountancy and Auditing 200 

24. Mercantile Law 200 

25. Applied Mechanics 200 

26. Prime Movers 200 


Note. — Candidates must select three and not more than three subjects from the 
above list. 

2. Restrictions on the selection of optional subjects: — 

(a) Of the History subjects 12, 13 and 14 not more than 2 can be offered. 

(b) Of the Law subjects 15, 18 and 24 not more than two can be offered. 

(c) Of the Mathematics, subjects 4, 5 and 22 not more than two can be 

offered. 


3. The commission have discretion to fix qualifying marks in any or all of the 
subjects at the examination. 

4. The Commission will summon all candidates (or at their discretion only 
those candidates who qualify at the written examination) for a viva voce test at 
which a maximum of 300 marks will be awarded. 


5. From the marks assigned to candidates in each subject 
be made as the Commission may consider necessary in orde: 
credit is allowed for merely superficial knowledge. 

6 . If a candidate’s handwriting is not easily legible, a de 
on this account from the total marks otherwise accruing to h 

7. Credit will be given for orderly, effective and exact 
■with due economy of words in all subjects of the examinaj 


t such deduc 

‘itm 


deduction wil 
that 


no 


t ? mads 




GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 11, 1958/ASVINA 19, 1R80 [PAit 11 


Append tit IV 

Candidates must pay the following fees: — 


To 


The Union Public Service Commission:- — 

A consolidated application and examination fee u! Its. 82-50 nP. (Rs. 20-62 nP. 
in the rase oi candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled 
Tribes) with the application. Only a Treasury Receipt for this amount or cross- 
ed Indian Postal Order payable to the Secretary, Union Public Service Commis- 
sion, will be accepted. The Commission cannot accept the fee in cash or ih 
cheques. 

Note. — T he Commission may, at their discretion, remit the prescribed applica- 
tion and examination fee where they are satisfied that the applicant is a bona fide 
displaced person and is not in a position to pay the prescribed fee. 

B. To the Medical Board: — - 

Rs. 10/- before examination by a Medical Board in the case of candidates who 
are asked to appear before a Medical Board. 

Candidates are required to pay their medical fee in cash to the Medical Board 
concerned at the time of their medical examination. 

No claims for a refund of these fees wiji ordinarily be entertained, nor can 
they be held in reserve for any other examination or selection. A refund of 
Rs. 75/- (Rs. 18.75 nP. in the case of candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes 
and -Scheduled Tribes) will, however, be allowed to a candidate who has paid 
the consolidated fee of Rs. 82:50 nP. Rs. 20-02 nE. in the case' of candidates 
belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes) but who is not admitted 
to the examination by the Commission. 

Appendix V 

Details of concession in age limits to displaced persons from Pakistan , 

The upper age limit prescribed in the rules will be relaxable in accordance with 
the general orders of the Government in this behalf, that is to say, upto a maxi- 
mum of three years if the candidate is a bona fled displaced person from Pakistan 
and ppto a maximum of 8 years if the candidate belongs to a Scheduled Caste or 
a Scheduled Tribe and is also a displaced person from Pakistan or as is determin- 
ed by the Government. 


R. BHAKTAVATSALU, 
Joint Financial Adviser. Defence Services 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Revenue) 

Central Excises 

New Delhi , the 4th October 1958 

G.S.R, 907.— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 37 of the Central 
Exercise and Salt Act, 1944 (I of 1944), as in force in India and as applied to the 
State of Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby makes the following fur- 
ther amendments to the Central Excise Rules, 1944, namely: — 

I. In rule 206 of the said Rules,— 

after sub-rule (2), the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely: — 

‘‘(3) Anything seized by a Central Excise Officer, mdy, pending the orders of 
the adjudicating Central Excise Officer, be released to the owner on 
taking a bond from him In the proper Form, with such security as 
the Collector may require.” 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: 


Sfcc. S(i) 


11 . 


II. In Appendix I, 

(1) in the table under the heuding' “Forms” after the entries relating to the 
Central Excise Series No. 32-D, the following entry shall be inserted, namely;— 


Central Excise 


Description of 

Rule 

Short title 

Series No. 


Form 

No. 


32-E 


(with security) for 

~~ 206 

B-lT(Set\j 


obtaining release of 
seized goods pending 
adjudication. 


(2) After Form B-lO(Sec ) [Central Excise Series No. 32-D], the following 
form B-ll (Sec.) shall be inserted— 

Central Excise Series No. 32-E. 


Range 


Circle — 

Form B-ll (Sec.) 

Bond (with security) to be entered into by person seeking release of goods 
seized pending adjudication. 

(Rule 206) 

(Delete the words and letters not applicable). 

1/We of [hereinafter called the obligor (s)] 

am bound to the President of India (hereinafter 

arc jointly and severally 

•called the Government) In the sum of.. rupees to be paid to thft 

Government for which payment “ J0111tiy ana seve ^I7y ^ 

myself and my 

ourselves and our legal representatives. 


Whereas a quantity of (hereinafter called the said goods) belong- 
ing to the obligo»(s) are seized by the Central Excise Officer Range/ 

Circle/Division (hereinafter culled the said officer) for an alleged offence under 
the Central Excise Act and Rules, 1944. 

And whereas the said officer has required the obligor (s) to deposit as guarantee 

for the amount of this bond the sum of rupees in cash/the securities 

hereinafter mentioned of a total face value of rupees endorsed in 

favour of the Collector of Centra! Excise, namely:— 

And whereas pending adjudication of the case by the competent officer, the 
said officer has under sub-rule (3) of Rule. 206 of the Central Excise Rules, 1944 
agreed lo release to the obligor (s) the said goods on the obligor(s) executing the 
bond in the manner aforesaid. 

Now the condition of this bond is that (a) if the obligor(s) and his/their legal 
representatives shall observe all the provisions of the Central Excise Rules, 1944 
so far as they relate to the seized goods; (b) if all dtres whether duty, value, 
penalty, or other lawful charges which shall be demandable on the goods released 
to the obligor(s), be duly paid into the treasury to the satisfaction of the said 
officer within 10 days of the date of demand thereof being made in writing by the 
said officer of Central Excise; (r) if the said goods are produced, unless the same 
have totally perished in the meantime, as and when directed by the said officer. 

Tins obligation shall be void. 

Otherwise and on breach or failure in the performance of any part of thi* 
condition, the same shall be in full force. 



irK . 


„ 11, 1958/ASVINA 19, 1880 [P**T It 


And I/we agree that the Government shall be. at liberty to appropriate the 
jmid deposit towards the payment of the amount of duty/value/penalty/other 
lawful charges as may be assessed by the competent authority in respect of the' 
goods. 

And I/we declare that this bond is given under the orders of the Central Gov- 
ernment for the performance of an act in which the public are interested. 

Place: 


Date: Signature (s) of obligor(s). 

Witnesses: 

H) 

( 2 ) 

Address: 

(D 

( 2 ) 

Occupation: 

(1) 

( 2 ) 

Place: 

Date: 

Accepted by me this day of 19 , for and on behalf of 

the President of India of Central Excise. 

[No. 102/58.] 

G.S.ft. 90S,— In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 12 and 37 of 
the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 (1 of 1944), as in force in India and as 
applied to the State of Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendments in the Central Excise Rules, 1944, namely — 

In the said rules, in sub-rule 10 of rule 191-A, the words ‘in accordance 
with the general export procedure’ shall be omitted. 


[.No. 103/50.] 

G.S.R. 909— In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 27 of the 
Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 (I of 1944), as in forne in India and as applied 
to the State of Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby makes the follow- 
ing further amendments in the Central Excise Rules, 1944, namely— 

In Appendix I to the said Rules, in Form A.S.P. (Central Excise Series 
No. 85) — 

1. in paragraph 1, the word 'six’ shall be omiiti-.d; 

2, for the words ‘Perm avion granted’ at the foot of the form, the words 

‘Permission granted for calendar months beginning 

with and ending with ’ shall be substituted. 

[No. 104/58.] 

- New Delhi, the 11 th October 1958 

G.S.K. 910— In pursuance of the rule 9GJ of the Central Excise Rules, 1944, 
as in force in India and as applied to fhe State of Pondicherry and in supersession 
of the notification of the Government or India, Ministry of Finance (Department 
of Revenue) S.R.O. No. 1302. dated the 27th April, 1957, the Central Government 
hereby fixes the following rates per shift per warp knitting machine employed 
by or cn behalf of the same person in the manufacture of rayon or artificial silk 
fabrics, namely: — 

First shift Rs. 54 per warp knitting machine per month. 

Second shift Rs. 36 per warp knitting machine per month. 

Third shift Rs. 20 per warp knitting machine per month. 



Sec. S(i)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958/ASVINA 19, 1880 839 


Provided that no duty shall be payable on the first 4 warp knitting machines, 
or where powerlooms as well as warp knitting machines ate employed, on power- 
looms not exceeding 9 in number or at the option of the person aforesaid, on warp 
.knitting machines not exceeding 4 in number: 


Provided further that — • 


(a) where in any subsequent shift more warp knitting machines are 
employed than in the first shift, the rate applicable to the machines 
employed in excess of those in the first shift shall be Rs. 54 per 
machine; and 

(bl where in the third shift more warp knitting machines are employed 
than in the second shift, but not more, than in the first shift the rate 
applicable to the machines employed In the third shift shall be Bis. 38 
per machine. 

Explanation .— Where powerlooms as well as warp knitting machines are 
employed, the provisions of the notification of the Government of India, Ministry 
of Finance (Revenue Division), No. S.R.O. 502. dated the 1st March, 1950, shall 
apply to the powerlooms in respect of which duty is payable. 

[No. 106/58-1 


G.S.R. 911. — In pursuance of rule 96J of the Central Excise Rules, 1944, 
ns in force in India and as applied to the State of Pondicherry and in supersession 
of the notification of the Government of India, Ministry of Finance (Department 
ol Revenue) S.R.O. No. 3(123. dated the lGth November, 1957, the Central Government 
■hereby fixes the following ’-atos per shift per power loom employed by nr on 
behalf of the same person m the manufacture of rayon or artificial silk fabrics, 
■namely: — 

First shift Rs. 27 per powerloom per month. 

Second shift Rs. 18 per powerloom per month. 

Third shift Rs. 10 per powerloom per month. 

Provided that where more than 9 powerlooms are employed by or on behalf 
of the same person, no duty shall he payable in respect of first 9 powerlooms. 

Provided further that — 

1 a) where in any subsequent shift more powerlooms are employed than in 
the first shift, the rate applicable to the powerlooms employed in 
excess of those in the first shift shall be Rs. 27 per powerloom; and 

< b ) where in the third shill more powerlooms are employed than in the 
second shift, but not more than in the first shift, the rate applicable 
to the powerlooms employed in the third shift in excess of those 
employed in the second shift shall be Rs. 18 per month, 

[No. 107/58.] 

G.S.R 912.— In pursuance of rule 9fiJ of the Central Excise RuIps, 1944, 
and sub-Section (3) of section 3 of the Additional Duties of Excise (Goods of 
Special Importance) Act, 1957 (58 of 1957) and in supersession of its notification 
S.R.O. No. 102 dated the Ilth January. 1958, the Central Government hereby fixes 
the following rates of additional excise duty per shift per powerloom employed 
by or on behalf of the same person in the manufacture of rayon or artificial silk 
fabrics, namely: — 

First shift Rs. 27 per powerloom per month. 

Second shift Rs. 18 per powerloom per month. 

Third shift Rs. 10 per powerloom per month. 

Provided that where more than 9 powerlooms are employed by or on behalf 
of the same person no duty shall be payable in respect of first 9 powerlooms; 

Provided further that— - 

(a) where in any subsequent shift more powerlooms are employed than in 
the first shift, the rate applicable to the powerlooms employed in 
excess ol those in the first shift shall be Rs, 27/- per powerloom; 
and 



THE GA/ETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER II, 1938/ASVINA 19, 1880 [Part II 


(b) where in the third shift more powerlooms are employed than in the 
second shift, but not more Than in the first shift, tne rate applicable 
to the powerlooms employed In the third shift in excess of those 
employed in The second shift shall be Rs. 18/- per month. 

[No. 108/58.] 

G-S.R. 91 , 3 .— In pursuance of rule 96J of the Central Excise Rules, 1944, 
and sub-Hection (3) of section 3 of the Additional Duties of Excise (Goods of 
Special Importance) Act, 1957 (58 of 1957) and in supersession of its notification 
M.R.O. No. 103, dated the 11th January, 1958, the Central Government hereby 
fixes the following rates of additional excise duty per shift per warp knitting 
machine employed by or on behalf of the same person in Ihe manufacture of 
mygn or artificial silk fabrics, namely;— 

First shift Rs, 54/- per warp knitting machine per month. 

Second shift Rs. 36/- per warp knitting machine per month. 

Third shift Rs, 20/- per warp knitting machine per month. 

Provided that no duty shall be payable on the first 4 warp knitting machines, 
or where powerlooms as well as warp knitting machines are employed by or on 

behalf of the same person, on pcwerlooms not exceeding 9 in number or at the 

option of the person aforesaid, on warp knitting machines not exceeding 4 in 
number: 

Provided further that — 

(a) where In any subsequent shift more warp knitting machines are 

employed than in the first shift, the rate applicable to the machines 
employed in excess of those in the first shift shall be Rs. 54/- per 
machine; and 

(b) where in the third shift more warp knitting machines are employed 

than in the second shift, but not more than :n the first shift, the rate 

applicable to the. machines employed in the third shift shall be Rs. 36/- 
per machine. 

Explanation . — Where powerlooms as well as warp knitting machines are 
emp'oyed, the provisions of the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue) S.R.O. No. 3623, dated the 16th 
November, 1957, shall apply to the powerlooms in respect of which duty is 
payable. 

LNo. 109/58,1 

G.S.R, 914.— In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 96J of the Central 
Excise Rules. 1944, and sub-scction (3) of section 3 of the Additional Duties of 
Excise (Goods of Special Importance) Act. 1957, (58 of 1957) and in supersession 
of the notification of the Government cf India, Ministry of Finance (Department 
of Revenue) G.S.R. No. 86, dated the 1st March, 1958, read with notification 
G.S.R. No. 206, dated the 1st April, 1958, the Central Government hereby fixes 
the following rates of additiona' excise duty ner shift per pnwerloom per month 
employed by or on behalf of the same person In the manufacture of cotton 
fabrics, namely; — 











Rs. 

1. where more than 
employed; 

24 

but 

not 

more 

than 

300 

powerlooms 

are 

20.00 

2. where more than 
employed; 

9 

hut 

not 

more 

than 

24 

powerlooms 

are 

16.00 

3. where more than 

4 

but 

not 

more 

than 

9 

powerlooms 

are 



employed; 


4. where not more than 4 powerlooms are employed: Nil 

Provided that where more than 4 powerlooms but not more than 9 powerlooms 
are employed by or on behalf of the same person, no duty shall be payable in 
respect of the first 4 powerlooms. 





THE GAZETTE Of WDM: GUl'OBER II, 1968/ASVWA 19, 1880 


86z: 


Provided further that where more than 9 powerlooms but not more than 24 
powerlooms are employed by or on behalf of the same person, no duty shall be 
payable: — 


(a) in respect of the first 4 powerlooms; 

(b) as is in excess of Rs. 12/- per powerloom per shift per month in respect 

of the next 5 pewerlooms. 


[No. 110/58.1 
S. K. BHATTACHARJEE, Dy. Sccy. 


(Department of Revenue) 

Customs and Central Excise 
New Delhi, the 11th October 1958 

G,S.R. 915. — The following draft of certain rules which the Central Govern- 
ment proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 43B of the.' 
Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878) and section 37 of the Central Excises and Salt 
Act, 1944 (both as in force in India and as applied to the State of Pandichcrry) 
Is published as required by sub-section Cl) of the said section 43B for the informa- 
tion of persons likely to be affected thereby, and notice is hereby given that the- 
said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 15th November, 1958. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date specified above will be considered by the 
Central Government, 


DRAFT RULES 

1. Short title. — These rules may be called the Customs and Central Excise Duties 
Refund (Fixed Rates) Rules, 1958. 

2. Definitions.— In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, — 

(a) ‘ excisable materials” means materials produced or mam factured in 

India or the State of Pondicherry, on which central exeue duty has 
been paid; 

(b) “export" includes shipment of the goods as provisions or stores for use- 

on board a ship proceeding to a foreign port; 

(c) “goods” means articles specified in the second column of the First 

Schedule which are manufactured in India or the State of Pondicherry, 
and in the manufacture of which imported or excisable materials or 
both have been used; 

(d) “imported materials” means materials imported into India or the State 

of Pondicherry, on payment of customs duty; 

(e) “manufacturer” means a manufacturer of the goods; 

(f) “refund” includes drawback of customs duty paid on imported material* 

and rebate of central excise duty paid on excisable materials; 

(g) “Schedule” means a Schedule appended to these rules. 

3 Goods In respect of which refund may be paid. — Subject to the provisions of 
the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878) and of the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 
(1 of 1944) and of these rules, and subject also to such provisions of the Central 
Excise Rules, 1944. as may be applicable in this behalf, a refund at the rate or 
rates referred to in rule 4, shall be allowed of the customs duty paid on the 
imported materials, and the central excise duty paid on the excisable materials, 
used in the manufacture of the goods exported from India or the State of 
Pondicherry. 

4. Rate of refund, — (1) Refund admissible under these rules in respect of any 
goods specified in the second column of the First Schedule shall be at the rate or 
rates specified against such goods in the corresponding entry in the third column 
of Ibe said Schedule. 

(2) The Central Government may revise the rate or rates of refund so specified 
at such intervals as it thinks fit, and for this purpose, may require anv manufac- 
turer of any variety or brand of the goods to furnish information in such form as 


4J62 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 11, 1958/ASVINA 19, 1880 [Part II 


it may prescribe and in particular, In respect of the materials used In the manu- 
facture of such brand or variety and the customs or the central excise duty, if any, 
paid thereon, 

5. Exporter’s declarations and documents.— At the time of the export of the 
goods, the exporter shall — 

(a) make a declaration on the relative shipping bill that a claim for refund 

under these rules is being made; 

(b) state on the shipping bill, the description, quantity and such other parti- 

culars as are necessary for deciding whether the goods are entitled to 
drawback, and if so, at what rate or rates; 

(c) furnish the Customs Collector with a copy of the shipment invoice or 

any other document giving particulars of the description, quantity 
and value of the goods to be exported. 

6 . Certain conditions for allowing refund. — Without prejudice to the provisions 
regarding drawback or refund contained in the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), 
In the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1U44 (1 of 1941), in the Central Excise Rules, 
1944, and in these rules, no refund shall be allowed under these rules unless — 

(i) the goods are included In the export manifest, and 

fit) payment of refund Is demanded within six months from the date of entry 
for shipment. 

7. Powers of Customs Collector, — For the purpose of rule 4 of these rules, the 
Customs Collector may require the manufacturer to produce any books of account 
-Or other documents relating to the proportion and quantity of the imported 
materials used in the manufacture of the goods and the duty paid thereon. 

8 . Access to manufactory. — Whenever the Chief Customs Officer or the Chief 
Customs Authority considers it necessary, the manufacturer shall give access at 
L all reasonable times to any officer of the Central Government specially authorised 
in this behalf by such officer or such authority, to every part of the premises In 
which the goods are manufactured, so as to enable the officer so authorised to verify 
by inspection of the processes of, and the materials used for, the manufacture of 
such goods, or otherwise, the entitlement of Ihe goods for drawback, or for a 
particular rate of drawback, under these rules. 

9. Repeal of rules. — The rules specified in the Second Schedule are hereby 
repealed except as respects things done or omitted to be done thereunder. 

The First Scheduie 


Serial 

Description of the goods 

Rale of refund 

No. 


I 

2 

3 


i. Fabrics manufactured from artificial silk 
yarn of all varieties other than staple 
fibre yarn, wholly or in admixlurc with 
other yam, and hosiery and readymade 
garments made from such fabrics, — 


(i) if made from artificial silk yarn of 
below 7 J deniers 

(it) if made from artificial silk yarn of 
75 deniers and above but not above 
IOO deniers 

(Hi) if made from artificial silk yarn of 
above ioo deniers but not above 135 
deniers 


Two rupees per pound o f arilificial silk yam: 

One rupee and twenty-eight naye paia 
per pound of artificial silk yam: 

Seventy-seven naye paisc per pound of 
artificial silk yarn: 





Bec. 3(i)"| 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 11, 1958/ASVINA 19, lS80 S 63 


f iv ) if made from artificial silk yarn of 
above 135 deniers but 1101 above 175 
deniers 

(v) If made from artificial silk yarn of 
above 175 deniers 


2 Crown corks — 

(j) with composition cork discs 

ft*) with natural cork discs . 

3 Hydraulic brake fluid conforming to 

Indian Standard specification I.S. 3T7 
( 1951 ) 

4 (i) Ground coffee .... 

fi'O French coffee, that is to say, coffee 
prepared by admixure of ground coffee 
and imported chicory 

5 Mixed total fatty acids obtained from coco- 

nut oil 

<5 Confectionery of the following varieties, 
other than confectionery manufactured 
for export in accordance with the proce- 
dure laid down in rule 191 of the Central 
Excise Rules, 1944 — 

(1) Boiled sweets, unwrapped 

(2) Boiled sweets, wrapped . 

(3) Boiled sweets, soft-centred 

(4) Toffees . 

7 Extract of pyrethrum flowers in kerosene 


Fifty-two naye paise per pound of arti- 
ficial silk yam : 

One rupee and twelve naye pais* per pound 
of artificial silk yarn : 

Provided that in the case of goods ma- 
nufactured from yarns of different 
deniers to which different rates of 
refund arc applicable, the refund 
in respect of the whole of such goods 
shall be allowed at the lowest of such 
rates. 


Six rupees and forty naye paise per one 
hundred gross 

Twenty-one rupees and thirty-five naye 
paise per one hundred gross 

One rupee and fifty naye paise per Imperia 
gallon 

Twenty-three naye paise per pound 

Twenty-three naye paise per pound of 
coffee content and twenty naye paise 
per pound of chicory content 

One hundred and forty-one rupees per to* 


Eleven rupees and fifteen naye paise per 
one hundred pounds 

Fifteen rupees per.one hundred pounds 

Thirteen rupees and thirty naye paise 
per one hundred pounds 

Eighteen rupees per one hundred pounds 

Eight rupees per Imperial gallon of a 
2% extract of pyrethrum flowers in 
kerosene 


The Second Schedule 

The Customs and Excise Duties Drawback (Art Silk) Rules, 1957. 

The Customs and Excise Duties Drawback (Hydraulic Brake Fluid) Rules, 1958. 

The Customs and Excise Duties Drawback (Crown Corks) Rules, 1958. 

The Customs and Central Excise Duties Drawback (Coffee) Rules, 1958. 

The Customs and Central Excise Duties Refund (Fatty Acids) Rules, 1958. 

The Customs and Central Excise Duties Drawback (Confectionery) Rules, 1955. 

The Customs and Central Excise Duties Drawback (Pyrethrum extract) Rules, 

1958. 


[No. 59/F. No. 34/44/ 58.Cus-IV.J 



864 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 11, 1958/ASVINA 19, 1880 [Pa»t H 


G.S.R. 916.— The following draft of certain rules which the Central Govern- 
ment proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 43B of the 
Sea Customs, 1878 (8 of 1878) and section 37 of the Central Excises and Salt Act, 
1944 (1 of 1944) (both as in force in India and as applied to the State of Pondi- 
cherry) Is published as required by sub-section (3) of the said section 43B for the 
information of persons likely to be affected thereby, and notice Is hereby given 
that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 15th November, 
1958. 

Any objection or suggestion which may he received from any person with res- 
pect to the said draft before the date specified above will be considered by the 
Central Government. 


DRAFT RULES 

1. Short title. — These rules may be called the Customs and Central Excise Duties 
Refund (Brand Rates) Rules, 1958. 

2. Definition. — In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, — 

(a) “excisable materials” means materials produced or manufactured in 

India or the State of Pondicherry, on which central excise duty has 
been paid; 

(b) “export” includes shipment of the goods as provisions or stores for use 

on board a ship proceeding to a foreign port; 

(c) “goods” means articles specified In the second column of the First 

Schedule which are manufactured in India or the State of Pondicherry 
and In the manufacture of which imported or excisable materials or 
both have been used; 

(d) “imported materials” means materials impoi-ted into India or the State 

of Pondicherry, on payment of customs duty; 

(e) "manufacturer” means a manufacturer of the goods; 

(f) “refund” includes drawback of customs duty paid on imported materials 

and rebate of central excise duty paid on excisable materials; 

(g) "Schedule” means a Schedule appended to these rules. 

3. Goods In respect of which refund may be paid. — Subject to the provisions 
of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878) and of the Central Excises and Salt Act, 
1944 (1 of 1944) and of these rules and subject also to such provisions of the 
Central Excise Rules, 1944, as may be applicable in this behalf, a refund at the 
rate or rates determined in accordance with rule 4, shall be allowed of the cus- 
toms duty paid on the imported materials, and the central excise duty paid on 
the excisable materials, used in the manufacture of the goods exported from 
India or the State of Pondicherry. 

4. Rate of refund. — (1) Refund admissible under these rules In respect of each 
variety or brand of the goods specified in the First Schedule shall be the total 
of the average customs duty paid on the imported materials, and the average 
central excise duty paid on the excisable materials, used in the manufacture of 
the goods. 

(2) Such averages shall be determined, on application by the manufacturer, 
by the Central Government on the basis of information furnished by the manu- 
facturer in respect of the materials used in the manufacture of the goods and 
the customs or the central excise duty, if any, paid on such materials-— during 
such period as in the opinion of the Central Government Is relevant for the 
purpose. 

(3) Such information shall be furnished by the manufacturer in such form as 
the Central Government may prescribe in any particular case, and shall be sub- 
ject to such verification as the Central Government may deem necessary in any 
particular case. 

(4) The Central Government may revise the refund so determined for any 
variety or brand of the goods, at such intervals as it thinks fit, and for this pur- 
pose, may require any manufacturer to furnish information in such form as it 
may prescribe, and in particular, in respect of the materials used in the manu- 
facture of such brand or variety and the customs or excise duty, if any, paid 



Sic. $(!>} THE < 


thereon, ’If such information is not furnished and facilities for its verification 
are not provided, by the manufacturer within such period as may be specified by 
the Central Government, the Central Government may deny refund in respect of 
shipments made, of such ariety or brand of the goods after the expiry of the 
said period. 

5. Exporter’s declarations and documents. — At the time of the export of the 
goods, the exporter shall,— 

(a) make a declaration on the relative shipping bill that a claim for refund 

under these rules is being made; 

(b) state on the shipping bill, the description, quantity and such other 

particulars as are necessary for deciding whether the goods are 
entitled to drawback, and if so, at what rate or rates; and 

(cl furnish the Customs Collector with a copy of the shipment invoice or 
any other document giving particulars of the description, quantity 
and value of the goods to be exported. 

6. Certain conditions for allowing refund.— Without prejudice to the provisions 
regarding drawback or refund contained in the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), 
in the Central Excises and Sail Act, 1944 (1 of 1944), in the Central Excise Rules, 
1944, and in these rules, no refund shall be allowed under these rules unless — 

(i) the goods are included in the export manifest, and 

(ii) payment of refund is demanded within six months from the date of 
entry for shipment. 

7. Powers of Customs Collector. — For the purpose of rule 4 of these rules, the 
Customs Collector may require the manufacture to produce any books of account 
or other documents relating to the proportion and quantity of the imported mate- 
rials used in the manufacture of the goods and the duty paid thereon. 

8. Access to manufactory.— Whenever the Chief Customs Officer or the Chief 
Customs Authority considers it necessary, the manufacturer shall give access at 
all reasonable times to any officer of the Central Government specially authorised 
in this behalf by such officer or such authority, to every part of the premises in 
which the goods arc manufae Cured, so as to enable the officer as authorised to 
verify by inspection of the processes of, and the materials used for, the manu- 
facture of such goods, or otherwise, the entitlement of the goods for drawback, 
or for a particular rate of drawback, under these rules. 

9. Repeal of rules. — -The rules specified in the Second Schedule are hereby 
repealed except us respects things done or omitted to be done thereunder. 

The First Schedule 

Serial Description of the goods 

No. 


1. Motor vehicles including motor cars, trucks, taxi cabs, motor omnibuses, 

lorries, jeeps, land rovers station wagons, motor cycles and scooters 
including three wheelers. 

2. Bicycles. 

3. Leather cloth. 

4. Trailers of the vehicular type. 

5. Kits for, and components of, bus bodies. 

6. Footwear. 

7. Pigments, colours, paints, enamels, varnishes, lacquers and paint ancillaries. 

8. Sparking plugs. 

9. Piperazine Syrup, 


The Second Schedule 

The Customs and Excise Duties Drawback (Trailers) Rules, 1958. 

The Customs and Excise Duties Drawback (Bus Body) Rules, 1958. 

Tlie Customs and Central Excise Duties Drawback (Motor Vehicles) Rules, 
1958. 

The Customs and Central Excise Duties Drawback (Leather Cloth) Rules, 
1958. 

The Customs and Central Excise Duties Drawback (Footwear) Rules, 1958. 



_ 11, , . 8/ASVINA 19, 1880 [Pa*t II 


a ‘ 


The Customs and Central Excise Duties Drawback (Paints) Rules, 1958. 

The Customs and Central Excise Duties Drawback (Sparking Plugs) Rules, 
1958. 

The Customs and Central Excise Duties Drawback (Bicycles) Rules, 1958 
The Customs and Central Excise Duties Drawback (Piperazine Syrup) Rules, 

1958, 

[No. 60/F. No. 34/44/58-Cus. IV.) 


Customs 

New Delhi, the 11th October 1958 

G.S.R. 917. — The following draft of an amendment in the Customs Duties 
Drawback (Tissue Paper) Rules, 1958, which the Central Government proposes 
to make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 43B of the Sea Customs 
Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as in force in India and as applied to the State of Pondi- 
cherry is published as required by sub-section (3) of the said section, for the 
Information of all persons likely to be affected thereby; and notice is hereby 
given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 13th 
November, 1958. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government, 


Draft Amendment 

In sub-clause (c) of rule 3 of the said rules, for the words "precipitated chalk 
and wood pulp”, the words "materials” shall be substituted. 

[No. 249/F, No. 34/97/58-CuS'IV.) 

G.S.R, 918.— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as In force in India and as applied to the State 
of Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby makes the following amendment 
in the notification of the Government of India In the Ministry of Finance (Depart- 
ment of Revenue) No. 147-Customs, dated the 10th May, 1958, namely: — 

In the Schedule annexed to the said notification, for the words "at Bombay, 
by the Naval Store Officer", the words "at Bombay and Cochin, by the Naval 
Store Officer concerned”, shall be substituted. 

[No. 250, } 

G.S.R. — 919. — The following draft of certain rules which the Central Govern- 
ment proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 43B of the 
Bea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as in force In India and as applied to the State 
of Pondicherry, is published as required by sub-section (3) of the said section for 
the information of persons likely to be affected, thereby, and notice Is hereby 
given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 15th 
November, 1958. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with respect 
to the said draft before the date specified above will be considered by the Central 
Government, 


DRAFT RULES 

1. Short title.— These rules may be called the Customs Duties Drawback 
(Fixed Rates) Rules, 1958. 

2, Definitions. — In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, — 

(a) "export” Includes shipment of goods as provisions or stores for use on 

board a ship proceeding to a foreign port; 

(b) “goods” means articles specified in the second column or trie First 

Schedule which are manufactured in India or the State of Pondicherry, 
and in the manufacture of which imported materials have been used: 

(c) "imported materials” means materials imported into, India or the State 

of Pondicherry on payment of customs duty; 

(d) "manufacturer” means a manufacturer of the goods; 

(e) “Schedule” means a Schedule appended to these rules. 



Sec. 8(1)] | THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958/ASVINA 19, 1880 867 


3. Goods in respect of which drawback may be paid.— Subject to the provisions 
ot the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), and of these rules, a drawback at the 
rate or rates referred to in rule 4, shall be allowed of the customs duty paid 
on the imported materials used in the manufacture of the goods exported from 
India or the State of Pondicherry. 

4. Rate of drawback.— (1) Drawback admissible under these rules in respect 
of any goods specified in the second column of the First Schedule shall be at 
the rate or rates specified against such goods In the corresponding entry in the 
third column of the said Schedule, 

(2) The Central Government may revise the rate or rates of drawback so 
specified at such intervals as it thinks fit, and for this purpose may require 
any manufacturer of any variety or brand of the goods to furnish information 
in such form as it may prescribe, and in particular, in respect of the materials 
used in the manufacture of such brand or variety and the customs duty, if any, 
paid thereon. 

5. Exporter’s declarations and documents.— At the time of the export of the 
goods, the exporter shall — 

(a) make a declaration on the relative shipping Mil that a claim for draw- 

back under these rules is being made; 

(b) state on the shipping bill, the description, quantity and such other 

particulars as are necessary for deciding whether the goods are 
entitled to drawback, and if so. at what rate or rates; and 

fc) furnish the Customs Collector with a copy of the shipment invoice or 
any other document giving particulars of the description, quantity 
and value of the goods to be exported. 

8 . Certain conditions for allowing drawback.— Without prejudice to the provi- 
sions regarding drawback contained in the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878) and 
in these rules, no drawback shall be allowed under these rules unless, — 

(i) the goods are included in the export manifest, and 

(ii) payment of drawback is demanded within six months from the date 

of entry for shipment, duly supported by evidence ot compliance 
with the provisions of these rules. 

7. Powers of Customs Collector — For the purpose of rule 4 of these rules, the 
Customs Collector may require the manufacturer to produce any books of account 
or other documents relating to the proportion and quantity of the imported 
materials used in the manufacture of the goods and the duty paid thereon. 

8. Access to manufactory. — Whenever the Chief Customs Officer or the Chief 
Customs Authority considers it necessary, the manufacturer shall give access at 
all reasonable times to any officer of the Central Government specially authorised 
in this behalf by such officer or such authority, to every part of thei premises in 
which the goods are manufactured, so as to enable the officer so authorised to 
verify by inspection of the processes of, and the materials used for, the manu- 
facture of such goods, or otherwise, the entitlement of the goods for drawback, or 
for a particular rate of drawback, under these, rules. 

9. Repeal of rules.— The rules specified in the Second Schedule arc hereby 
repealed except as respects things done or omitted to be done thereunder. 

The First Schedule 


Serial Description of the goods Rate of drawback 

No. 


1 2 3 


1 Plastic goods other than spectacle frames, 
leather cloth and polyvinyl chloride ca- 
bles, that is to say— 

S Polystyrene moulding powder . . Twenty-six nayepaise per pound, 

Articles which are made wholly of 
any one, and not more than one, of 
the following materials, and compo- 
nent parts, similarly made, of any 
articles. — 

ft) polystyrene moulding powder Twenty-six nayepaise per pound. 

(it) cellulose acetate moulding powder Seventy naye paise per pound, 
or cellulose acetate sheets . 



868 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER II, 1958/ASVINA 19, 1880 [Pajit II 


12 3 


(in) cellulose acetate butyrate moul- 
ding powder 

(if) urea formaldehyde moulding pow- 
der. 

(o) polyethylene moulding powder 
(vi) cellulose nitrate sheets, films, 
rods or tubes. 

(fit) polymethyl methacrylate sheets, 
films, rods or tubes. 

(wii) polyvinyl chloride sheeting or 
polyvinyl chloride composition or 
moulding powder, or polyvinyl chlo- 
ride resin and plasticiser. 

2 Galvanised iron wire gauze, mesh netting 
and chain link fencing, if made of galva- 
nised iron wire falling under item 63(25) 
of the First Schedule to the Indian Term 
Act, 1934 (32 of 1934)— 

(a) finer than 16 S.W.G. but not-finer 
than 22 S.W.G, 

(b) finer than 22 S.W.G. but not finer 
than 27 S.W.G. 

(c) finer than 27 S.W.G. 


3 Potassium citrate monohydratc 

4 Glass or Glassware . . 

5 Saccharin, insoluble 


6 Jute manufactures— 

(!) hessian . 

(«) sacking 


7 Dichromates — 

(1) Sodium dichromate dihydrate 

(2) Anhydrous sodium dichromate 

(3) Potassium dichromatc . 

(4) Ammonium dichromate 

8 Chromic add 


Seventy naye paise per pound. 

Forty-two naye paise per pound. 

Ninety-six naye paise per pound. 

Highty-five naye paise per pound. 

One rupee and twenty-one naye paise per 
pound. 

Twenty-five naye paise per pound. 


Rupees two hundred and eighty-two per 
ton. 

Rupees three hundred and forty-three 
per ton. 

Rupees three hundred and seventy-eight 
per ton : 

Provided that in the case of goods 
manufactured from wire of diffe- 
rent gauges, drawback shall be allow- 
ed at the rate applicable to wire of 
the thicker or the thickest variety, 
as the case may be, used in the goodB. 

Thirty one rupees and sixty naye paise 
per one hundred pounds. 

Twenty-one rupees and twenty-five naye 
paise per ton. 

One rupee and eighty-five naye paise per 
pound. 


One rupee and sixty naye paise per ton. 

Two rupees and forty naye paise per ton t 
Provided that no drawback shall bo 
admissible on fractions of a ton of 
hessian or sacking forming part of 
a shipment. 


Three rupees per hundredweight. 

Three rupees and forty-five naye paise 
per hundredweight. 

Three rupees and ten naye paise per hundred- 
weight. 

Three rupees and sixty naye paise per 
hundredweight. 

Four rupees and fifty-five naye paise per 
hundredweight. 



Sic. 3(1)1 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : i 


H, 


q Carbon papers — 

U) Carbon papers in the manufacture 
of which imported tissue paper has 
been used — 

(0 Typewriter carbon paper . . Sixty-five naye paise per one hundred 

foolscap sheets. 

(ii) Pencil carbon paper or pen carbon Sixiy-two naye paise per one hundred 
paper. foolscap sheets. 

1 2) Carbon papers in the manufacture 
of which indigenous tissue paper has 
been used— 

(») Typewriler carbon paper . . Eleven naye paise per one hundred foolscap 

sheets, 

(») Pencil carbon paper or pen carbon Five naye paise per one hundred foolscap 


paper 

10 Cough syrups 


11 Ivory products .... 

12 Roofing felt — 

(0 3-piy 

O'i) 2-ply 

(t») underlay .... 

13 Plywood — 

(0 3-ply 

(») 5-ply .... 

(»») 7-p’y 

(*») 9-ply 

(«) ix-ply .... 

14 Tennis or badminton rackets— 

Ci) Tennis rackets , standard size . 

(2) Tennis rackets, sub-standard size 

(3) Badminton rackets. 


sheets . 

Per one hundred grams of the following 
ingredients contained in the cough sy- 
rup 

Balsam tolu , Eighty-three naye 
paise. 

Menthol . . One rupee and forty 

five naye paise. 

Potassium anti- Thirty-nine naye paise. 
monytartarate 

Potassium sul- Fifty-seven nayepaise. 
phoguaicolatc 

Terpcne hydrate . Twenty-six naye paise. 
Six rupees and sixty naye paise per pound. 


Rupees one hundred and eighty-one per 
ton. 

, Rupees one hundred and eiglity-five per 
ton. 

. Rupees two hundred and ninety-four per 
ton. 


. One rupee and forty-two naye paise per 
one hundred square feet. 

. Two rupees and eighty-four naye paise 
per one hundred square feet. 

Four rupees and thirty-six naye paise per 
one hundred square feet. 

Five rupees and seventy-eight naye paise 
per one hundred square feei. 

. Seven rupees and twenty naye paise per 
one hundred square feet. 


. Two rupees and twenty naye paise per dozen. 

Ninety naye paise per dozen. 

. Ninety naye paise per dozen. 





it 


A: OCTOBER 11, 1958/ASVINA 19, 1880 (Part II 


i 


2 


3 


sulphite Twnety-sevon naye paise per pound of 
paper. 

Thirty-six naye paise per pound of paper. 


15 Paper products— 

(1) Envelopes made of— 

(a) imported manila and 

envelope paper. 

(, b ) imported writing paper or printing 
paper other than newsprint . 

(2) Writing pads made of imported wri- 
ting paper or imported printing paper 
other than newsprint. 

(j) Exercise books made of imported 
writing paper or imported printing 
paper other than newsprint. 

16 Fishing rods in the manufacture ol which— 

(it) imported bamboo poles not less than 
seven feet and not more Than eleven 
feet in length have been used. 

(b) imported bamboo poles more than 
eleven feet but not more than twenty- 
three feet in length have been used. 

(.0 imported bamboo poles not less than 
twenty-six feet and not more than 
thirty-two feet in length have been 
used. 

17 R.S. pilferproof closures, 28 millimeter 

size, 

18 Spectacle frames — 

Component purls of spectacle liames 
exported as such or as parts of com- 
plete spectacle frames — 

(.1) Parts made of cellulose nitrate 
sheets. 

(2) Side wires 

(,3) Metal joints nr hinges— 

4 millimeter size. 

6 millimeter size .... 

19 Playing cards made ot— 

(i) artboard, brush-coaled 011 iwo 
sides. 

(,2) card board, laminated and black- 
centred. 

20 Handicrafts and other articles made of 

alabaster. 


Thirty-six naye paise per pound of paper. 


Thirty-six naye paise per pound of paper. 


Three rupees per one hundred pieces. 


Four rupeei and seventy naye paise per 
one hundred pieces. 

Nine rupees and fifty naye paise per one 
hundred pieces. 


Eight rupees and fifty naye paise per one 
thousand units. 


Eighty-five naye paise per pound. 

Sixty-eight naye paise per gross pieces. 

One rupee and fifty naye paise per gross 
pieces. 

One rupee and seventy-five naye paise 
per gross pieces. 

Sixty-seven naye paise per pound. 

Seventy-five naye paise per pound. 

Rupees one hundred and twenty-live per 
tion. 


The Second Schedule 

The Customs Duties Drawback (Potassium Citrate) Rules, 1957. 
The Customs Duties Drawback (Glass and Glassware) Rules, 1957. 
The Customs Duties Drawback (Saccharin) Rules, 1957. 

The Customs Duties Drawback (Jute Manufactures) Rules, 1957. 
The Customs Duties Drawback (Dichromates) Rules, 1967. 

The Customs Duties Drawback (Carbon Paper) Rules, 1957. 

The Customs Duties Drawback (Cough Syrup) Rules, 19577 



Sec. 3(i)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 11. 1958/ASVINA 19, 1880 gyi 


The Customs Duties Drawback (Galvanised Iron Wire Products) Rules, 1957. 
The Customs Duties Drawback (Ivory Products) Rules, 1957. 

The Customs Duties Drawback (Roofing Felt) Rules, 1957. 

The Customs Duties Drawback (Plywood) Rules, 1957. 

The Customs Duties Drawback (Badminton and Tennis Rackets) Rules, 1957. 
The Customs Duties Drawback (Paper Products) Rules, 1957. 

The Customs Duties Drawback (Fishing Rods) Rules, 1957, 

The Customs Duties Drawback (R. S. Pilferproof Closures) Rules, 1958. 

The Customs Duties Drawback (Spectacle Frames) Rules, 1958. 

The Customs Duties Drawback (Playing Cards) Rules, 1958. 

The Customs Duties Drawback (Plastic Goods) Rules, 1958. 

The Customs Duties Drawback (Alabaster Articles) Rules, 1958. 


[No. 251/F. No. 34/44/58. Cus-IV. 1 


G.S.R. 920. — The following draft of certain rules which the Central Govern- 
ment proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 43B of the 
Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as in force in India and as applied to the State 
of Pondicherry, is published as required by sub-section (3) of the said section for 
the information of persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby given 
that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 15th November, 
1958. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date specified above will be considered by the 
Central Government. 


DRAFT RULES 

1. Short title. — These rules may be called the Customs Duties Drawback (Brand 
Rates) Rules, 1958. 

2. Definitions. — In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, — 

(a) "export” includes shipment of goods as provisions or stores for use on 

board a ship proceeding to a foreign port; 

(b) “goods" means articles specified in the second column of the First 

Schedule which are manufactured in India or the State of Pondicherry, 

and in the manufacture of which imported materials have been used; 

(c) “imported materials” means materials imported into India or the State 

of Pondicherry on payment of customs duty; 

(d) “manufacturer” means a manufacturer of the goods; 

( e ; “Schedule” means a Schedule appended to these rules. 

3. Goods In respect of which drawback may be paid. — Subject to the provisions 
of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878) and of these rules, a drawback as the rate 
or rates determined in accordance with rule 4, shall be allowed of the customs 
duty paid on the imported materials used in the manufacture of the goods, exported 
from India or the State of Pondicherry. 

4. Rate of drawback. — (1) Drawback admissible under these rules in respect of 
each variety or brand of the goods specified in the First Schedule shall lie the 
average customs duty paid on the imported materials used in the manufacture of 
the goods. 

(2) Such average shall be determined, on application by the manufacturer, 
by the Central Government on the basis of information furnished by the manu- 
facturer in respect of the materials used in the manufacture, of the goods, and the 
customs duty, if any, paid thereon, during such period as in the opinion of the 
Central Government is relevant for the purpose. 

(3) Such information shall be furnished by the manufacturer in such form 
as the Central Government may prescribe in any particular case, and shall be 
subject to such verification as the Central Government may deem necessary In 
any particular case. 

(4) The Central Government may revise the drawback so determined for any 
variety or brand of the goods, at such intervals as it thinks fit, and for this purpose, 
may require any manufacturer to furnish information in such form as it may 



872 THE GAZETTE OF 1NIHA; OCTOBER 11, 1958/ASVINA 19, 1880 [Paki II 


prescribe, and in particular, in respect of the materials used in the manufacture of 
such brand or variety and the customs duty, if any paid thereon. If such informa- 
tion is not furnished, and facilities for its verification are not provided by the 
manufacturer within such period as may be specified by the Central Government, 
the Central Government may deny refund in respect of shipments made of such 
variety or brand of the goods, after the expiry of the said period, 

5. Exporter's declarations and documents, — At the time of the export of the 
goods, the exporter shall — 

(a) make a declaration on the relative shipping bill that a claim for draw- 

back under these; rules is being made; 

(b) state on the shipping bill, the description, quantity and such other 

particulars as are necessary for deciding whether the goods are 
entitled to drawback, and if so at what rate or rates; 

(c) furnish the Customs Collector with a copy of the shipment invoice or 

any other document giving particulars of the description, quantity 
and value of the goods to be exported. 

6 . Certain conditions for allowing drawback. — Without prejudice to the pro- 
visions regarding drawback contained in the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), 
and in these rules, no drawback shall be allowed under these rules unless— 

(i) the goods are included in the; export manifest, and 

(ii) payment of drawback is demanded within six months from the date of 

entry for shipment, duly supported by evidence of compliance with 
the provisions of these rules. 

7. Powers of Customs Collector. — For the purpose of rule 4 of these rules, the 
Customs Collector may require the manufacturer to produce any books of account 
or other documents relating to the proportion and quantity of the imported 
materials used in the manufacture of the goods and the duty paid thereon. 

8. Access to manufactory. — Whenever the Chief Customs Officer or the Chief 
Customs Authority considers it necessary, the manufacturer shall give access at 
all reasonable times to any officer of the Central Government specially authorised 
in this behalf by such officer or such authority, to every part of the premises in 
which tha goods are manufactured, so as to enable the officer so authorized to 
verify by inspection of the processes of, and the materials used for, the manufacture 
of such goods, or otherwise, the entitlement of the goods for drawback or for a 
particular rate of drawback, under these rules 

9. Repeal of rules. — The rules specified in the Second Schedule are hereby 
repealed except as respects things done or omitted to be done thereunder. 

The First Schedule 

Serial Description of goods 

No. 


1. Copper dusting preparations, namely, fungicidal wettable dusting prepara- 

tions of cuprous oxide which are free from cupric compounds and 
other pesticldal ingredients. 

2. Chokes for fluorescent lamps. 

3. Radio receivers. 

4. Tooth paste, 

5. Turbine or centrifugal pumps, whether or not with a motor or gear drlva 

attached. 

6. Tissue paper. 

7. Sewing machines. 

8. Chrome leather washers. 

9. Diesel Engines. 

10. Dyestuffs. 

11. Sodium para amino salicylate or calcium para amino salicylate, in tablet 

or other form. 

12. Umbrella ribs, solid or flexus type. 

13. Disinfectants and antiseptic preparation*. 

14. Card staves. 



Sec. S(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 11, 1958/ASVINA 19, 1880 873 , 


The Second Schedule 

The Customs Duties Drawback (Radio Receivers) Rules, 1957. 

The Customs Duties Drawback (Tooth Paste) Rules, 1957. 

The Customs Duties Drawback (Pumps) Rules, 1957. 

The Customs Duties Drawback (Tissue paper) Rules, 1958. 

The Customs Duties Drawback (Sewing Machines) Rules, 1958. 

The Customs Duties Drawback (Chokes for Fluorescent Lamps) Rules, 1958. 
The Customs Duties Drawback (Chromei Leather Washers) Rules, 1958. 

The Customs Duties Drawback (Diesel Engines) Rules, 1958. 

The Customs Duties Drawback (Dyestuffs) Rules, 1958. 

The Customs Duties Drawback (PAS Tablets) Rules, 1958. 

The Customs Duties Drawback (Umbrella Ribs) Rules, 1958 
The Customs Duties Drawback (Disinfectants and Antiseptics) Rules, 1968, 
The Customs Duties Drawback (Copper Dusting Preparations) Rules, 1958. 
The Customs Duties Drawback (Card Staves) Rules, 1958. 

[No, 252/F. No. 34/44/58-Cus.IV,] 


G.S.R. 921. — In exercise, of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sett 
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as in force in India and as applied to the State 
of Pondicherry, the Central Government makes the following further amendments 
In the notification of the Government of India In the late Finance Department 
((Centra] Revenues) No. 33-Customs, dated the 22nd June, 1935, namely: — 

In the said notification, in Schedule X— - Import Duties, 

(1) under the head A— General, serial numbers 2, 7, 15, 16, 28D, 28J and 

28Q, and the entries relating thereto shall be omitted; 

(2) under the head B— Government Departments, serial numbers 30 and 31 

and the entries relating thereto shall be omitted; 

(3) under the head C— Other special consignees, serial numbers 38 and 40 

and the entries relating thereto shall be omitted; 

(4) under the head E— Containers, serial numbers 64 and 65 and the entries 

relating thereto shall be omitted, 

[No. 253.] 


G.S.R. 922. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the, Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as in force in India and as applied to the State of 
Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby exempts redium and its salts fall- 
ing under item 28 of the First Schedule of the Indian Tariff Act, 1934 (32 of 1934), 
when imported into India or the State of Pondicherry from the whole of the duty 
of customs leviable thereon under the latter Act. 


[No. 254.] 


G.S.R. 923.— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as m force in India and as applied to the State 
of Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby exempts the articles specified 
in the second column of the Schedule hereto annexed, when imported into India 
or the State of Pondichgrry, subject to the limitations and conditions specified 
in the third column of the said Schedule, from the whole of the duty of custom® 
leviable thereon. 



*74 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER II, 1958/ASVINA 19, 1880 [Part II 


Schedule 


Serial Goods 
No. 


Limitations and 
Conditions 


1. Dairy appliances, excluding trans- 
port containers and articles 
included in item 72(9) of (he 
First Schedule to the Indian 
Tariff Act, 1934 (32 of 1934) : 


2. Component parts of such dairy 
appliances: 


Provided they are specially design- 
ed as dairy appliances and for 
use for milking the cow or for 
any subsequent process carried 
out in the dairy in connection 
with milk cream, butter or 
cheese. 


Provided they can be readily fitted 
into their proper places in the 
appliances for which they are 
imported and they cannot ordi- 
narily be u.-ed for other than 
dairy purposes. 


rNo. 255.] 


G.S.R, 924.— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as in force in India and as applied to the State 
of Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby exempts wreaths for being 
placed on graves, when imported into India or the State of Pondicherry, from 
the whole of the duty of customs leviable thereon. 


[No. 256,] 


G.8.R. 925. — In exercise, of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as in force in India and as applied to the State 
of Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby exempts (a) ocean-going vessels 
imported to be broken up, and (b) parts of vessels under repair removed for 
replacement, from so much of the duty of customs leviable thereon as is in 
excess of 20 per cent, ad valorem: 

Provided that articles contained in any such vessel not forming part of her 
necessary tackle, apparel or furniture (c.g. Pianos, crockery, cutlery) shall be 
assessed" to duty separately under the appropriate items of the Tariff. 

fNo. 257.1 


G.S.R. 926.— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as in force in India and as applied to the State 
of Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby exempts opium, when imported 
by Government from a customs port into any of the following ports, from pay- 
ment of the whole of the duty of customs leviable thereon, namely: — 

(1) Calcutta; 

(2) Madras; 

(3) Bombay; 

(4) Alibag; 

(5) Ratnagiri; and 

(6) Karwar, 

[No, 258.] 


G.S.R. #27. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
■Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as in force In India and as applied to the State 



SEC. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 11, 1958/ASV1NA 19, 


of Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby exempts challenge cups or 
trophies— 

(a) which have been won by any unit of the Defence forces in India or 

by a particular member or members of such unit in a competition 

which is not confined to units or members of the units stationed in 
India; 

or 

(b) which are being reimported and which, before being exported, had 

been won by any such unit or member or members of a unit in a 

competition not satisfying the above mentioned condition; 

or 

(c) which have been sent by donors resident abroad for presentation to 

or competition among such units or members of such units — 

when imported into India or the State of Pondicherry, from payment of the 
whole of the duty of customs leviable thereon: 

Provided that the articles for which free entry is claimed are certified by the 
Officer Commanding the unit or Brigade or any higher military authority or any 
of their staff officers as having been offered for competition or presented with 
the sole or main object of encouraging military efficiency; provided further that 
the cups or trophies have had engraved on them before being shipped the object 
for which presen ted ; and except in the case of those sent by donors resident 
abroad for competition in India, the name of the winner or winners. 

[No. 259. J 

G.S.R. 928. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as m force in India and as applied to the State 
of Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby exempts drums and other con- 
tainers of a durable nature, when imported full into India or the State of Pondi- 
cherry, from the whole of the duty of customs leviable thereon: 

Provided that the Customs Collector is satisfied — 

(a) that the containers so imported, or an equal number of precisely 

similar containers, have, not more than one year previously, been' 
exported empty by or on behalf of the importer without a claim 
for drawback of import duty having been made and established; 
and 

(b) that an importer applying for the benefit of the exemption conferred 

hereby with reference to any exportation of empty containers has 
not already obtained the benefit of the exemption with reference to 
such exportation. 

[No. 260.] 

G.S.R. 929. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as in force in India and as applied to the State 
of Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby exempts used containers of a 
durable nature, when imported empty into India or the State of Pondicherry, 
from the whole of the duty of customs leviable thereon: 

Provided that the Customs Collector is satisfied- 

la) that the containers so imported from any country or an equal number 
of precisely similar containers have, not more than three years pre- 
viously, been exported full to such country or for use on a ship 
that has thereafter visited such country by or on behalf of the im- 
porter without a claim for drawback of import duty having been 
made and established; and 

(b) that an importer applying for the benefit of the exemption conferred 
hereby with reference to any exportation of full containers has 
not already obtained the benefits of the exemption with reference to 
such exportation. 

[No. 261.] 

G.S.R. 930.— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as in force in India and as applied to the State 
of Pondicherry, the Ccnjral Government hereby exempts ocean-going vessels- 
imported into India or the State of Pondicherry, other than vessels imported to 
be broken up, from the whole of the duty of customs leviable thereon: 

Provided that any such vessel if subsequently broken up shall be chargeable- 
with the duty which would be payable on her if she were imported to be broken 
up. 


[No. 262.] 



GA OF . >IA: OCTOBER ll, 1958/ASVINA 19. 1880 [Pa*t H 


G.S.R. 931. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878 1 , as in force in India and as applied to the State 
of Pondicherry, and in supersession of the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue) No. 182-Customs, 
dated the 28th December, 1956, the Central Government hereby exempts amodja- 
quin imported into India or the State of Pondicherry and falling under item 28 
of the First Schedule to the Indian Tariff Act, 1934 (32 of 1934), from— 

(i) so much of the customs duty leviable thereon under the latter Act 
as is in excess of the duty of 10 per cent, ad valorem, where the 
standard rate of duty is leviable; and 

(iij the whole of the duty leviable thereon, where the preferential rate 
of duty is leviable. 

[No. 263.] 


G.S.R. 932,— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 t8 of 1878), as in force in India and as applied to the State 
of Pondicherry, and in supersession of the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue) No. 177-Customs, 
dated the 26th December, 1956, the Central Government hereby exempts com- 
ponent parts (other than frames, petrol tanks, silencers and pistons) of (i) 
three-wheeled auto-rickshaws, and (ii) three-wheeled vehicles mounted on the 
chassis of such auto-rickshaws and adapted for the conveyance of goods, imported 
into India or the State of Pondicherry in C.K.D, packs for assembly, and falling 
under items Nos. 75(9), 75(10.), 7501) and 7502) of the First Schedule to the 
Indian Tariff Act, 1934 (32 of 1934), from so much of the duty of customs leviable 
thereon under the last mentioned Act as is in excess of the duty of— 

(1) 22 J per cent, ad valorem, where the standard rate of duty is leviable; 

and 

(2) 15 per cent, ad valorem, where the preferential rate of duty is leviable. 


[No. 264.] 

G.S.R. 933.— The following draft of certain rules which the Central Govern- 
ment proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 43B of 
the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as in force in India and as applied to the 
State of Pondicherry is published as required by sub-section (3) of the said section 
for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby, and notice is 
hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 
15th November, 1958. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to tho said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 

DRAFT RULES 

1. Short title. — These rules may be called the Customs Duties Drawback (Public 
Address Equipment) Rules, 1958. 

2. Definitions, — In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,— 

(a) “Act" means the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878); 

(b) “goods" means public address equipment manufactured in India or 

the State of Pondicherry and in the manufacture of which imported 
materials has been used; 

(c) “imported materials" means materials imported into India or the State 

of Pondicherry on payment of customs duty. 

3. Goods in respect of which drawback may be paid, — Subject to the provisions 
-of the Act and these rules a drawback shall be allowed in respect of the imported 
materials used in the manufacture of the goods exported from India or the State 
of Pondicherry. 

4. Rate of drawback, — (1) The rate of drawback admissible under these rules 
on the shipment of the goods shall he the average customs duty paid on the 
imported materials used in the manufacture of the goods. 

(2) Such rate shall be determined by the Central Government (hereinafter in 
this sub-rule referred to as the Government) at such intervals as the Government 
may consider necessary on the basis of information furnished by the manufacturer 
of the goods and verified by the Government in respect of the duty paid on 
imported materials during such period as in the opinion of the Government is 
relevant for the purpose. 



Sec. 3(i)] ftHE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOME 11, /j , , . 1 % 


5. Manner of allowing drawback. — Drawback shall be allowed on the shipment 
of the goods from any port in India or the State of Pondicherry subject to the 
following conditions, namely: — 

(a) that the shipper shall, on thei relative shipping bill, make a declaration 
that a claim for drawback under section 43B of the Act is being 
made; and 

(b> that the shipper shall furnish the Customs Collector with a copy of the 
shipment invoice or any other document giving details of the 
description, quantity and value, of the goods under shipment. 

6. Powers of Customs Collector, — For the purpose of these rules, the Customs 
Collector may require the shipper or the manufacturer of the goods to produce any 
books of accounts or other documents relating to the proportion and quantity of 
the imported materials used in the manufacture of the goods and the duty paid 
thereon, or to furnish any return in respect thereof. 

7. Access to manufactory. — The manufacturer of the, goods in respect of which 
a drawback is claimed under these rules shall give access to every part of the 
manufactory to any officer of the Central Government specially authorised in this 
behalf by the Chief Customs Officer or the Chief Customs Authority, to enable 
the officer so authorised to inspect the processes of manufacture and to verify by 
actual check or otherwise the statements made in support of the claim for draw- 
back. 


[No. 265/F. No. 34/81/58.Cus-IV.] 
S. VENKATARAMAN, Dy. Secy. 


RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 
Exchange Control Department 
Central Office 

Bombay, the 23 rd September 1958 

G.S.R. 934. — In pursuance of the notification of the Government of India in 
the Finance Department No, 12(l3)-FI/47 dated the 25th March, 1947, the 
Reserve Bank hereby directs that the following further amendment shall be 
made in the schedule to the notification of the Reserve Bank of India No. F.E.R A, 
10/47-R.B. dated the 25th March, 1947. namely:— 

In the said Schedule the entry "Hind Bank Ltd.” shall be omitted. 

[No. F.E.R.A.165/58-R.B. ] 
H, V. R. IENGAR, Governor. 


MINISTRY OF FOOD & AGRICULTURE 
(Department of Agriculture) 

New Delhi, the 30 th September 1958 

G.S.R. 935.— In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules for regulating 
the recruitment to Non-Gaze tted posts in the Indian Institute of Sugarcane 
Research, Lucknow, namely: — 

1. Short title.— These rules may be called the Indian Institute of Sugarcane 
Research, Lucknow (Recruitment to Non-Gazetted posts) Rules, 1958. 

2. Description of Posts.— The designations of Non-Gazetted (Class II, III and 
IV) posts In the Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research, Lucknow, their classifica- 
tion and scales of pay, and the duties of the holders of such posts shall be as 
specified in columns 1 to 5 of the Schedule to these rules. 

3. Method of Recruitmtnt, — The method of recruitment, qualifications, age- 
limits and other matters relating to these posts shall he as laid down in columns 
6 to 15 of said Schedule. 



Se&EDULj 


c 

c 


j Recruitment rules fer the post oj Nan-Gazetted posts. 
la Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research, Lucknow 


Name of Post No. 

posts 


Age whether 

’Whether limit for Educational and age and Period 
of Classification Scale of Selection direct other qualifications educational of 

pay pogt or recruits required qualifications probation 

non- prescribed if any 

selection for 

post the 

direct 

recruits 

will 

ipplT 

in the 
case of 
promo- 
tees 


Method of In case of 
reett. whether reett. by 
by direct promotion.' 
recti, or by transfer, 

promotion or grades from 
transfer and which pro- 
percentage of motion to be 
the made 

vacancies to 
be filled by 
various methods 


If a DPC 
exists what 
is its 
composition 


Circumstanc es 
tn which 

TJ.P.S.C. 
is lo be 
consulted in 
making reett- 


o 

TJ 

NX 

2 

CJ 

NX 

> 

o 

o 

H 

o 

w 

M 


Essential 


Senior Artist One 

Cam- Photo*?*” 

phec 


General Rs. 250 — 10 — Selection 
Central 300 — 15—450 

Service 25 : 2 — 500 

Class II 
Non- Gaze Vied 
Non- 
MinistcriaJ 


Below 40 1. DegTee/Diplomi No, 

year* in .Art from recog- 

nised University/ 

Imtilute 

2. About 3 year* 
experience lo 
a recognised 
Scientific Insti- 

tute aa artijt-ewm- 
Photographer- 



Promotion 



ll £ 
,1 5! 





I 1 > 

$o*; by 

r. Photogra- 

Departmen- 

As required 

II 2 

prom 01 3 od 

pher cum- 

tal promotion 

under Ih* 

11 2 

50% by direct 

Artist 

Committee 

Rules. 

il 2 

recruitment 

2. Artist- cam- 

of the 


1 > 


Photographer. 

Ministry of 
Food and 


3 

1 



Agriculture 




^Department 


',1 J _ i 



of Agri cul- 


'l & 



ture) Class II 
Posts, 


1 1 0 

1 


( Qualifications rela- 

xablc at Comnua- 

sioc 1 * discretion in 

ease of candidates 

otherwise well 

qualified). 


I 

I 


> 



DdScra&U* 


i, Profidc cy in ped 
•ad ini drawing 
tod water colour 

painting, 

2, Diploma in photo 
graphy from * 
reoognbed Tech- 

nical Institute 


Note. — T he 
grade*. 


Ph oto grater Artist and ArCat-cvs* Photographer should have put in ctleasl 
before they can be considered to be eligible for promotion. 


7 years and io years 


service respectively in tfc e 


Sec, J(i)] [THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: 



. 11 , 1 UWt 


i 19, 1-880 [Part U 


Scm 

Indian Institute of Sugarcane 


Name of 
Post* 


T* 


It* 

Classification Scale of 
whether pay 
gazetted or 
Non- Gazetted 
and 

whether 

Ministerial 

or 

Non- 

Minjflterial 


Duties 


No, of Percentage of pofts to be filled by 

posts 

Promotion Trans- 

Dlrcct — — - fer 

recruit- By Seniority 
ment selcc- oum 
tions fitness 


12 3 4 


5 6 7 8 9 


R*. 


Office Class III 250 — 15 — 

Superintendent* Ministerial 400 

Non- 
Gaze tted 


Supervision of tho 2 25% 

work of various 
sections as allocated 
by the Director. 


75 % 


Technical Assis- Do. 160—10—330 1. Translation work r ... . . Transfer 

taut (Hindi). from Hindi into 

Bogush and yice- 
v*rsa. 

2. Any other duties 
allocated by the 
Director, 


Accountant 


Confidential 

Aatiatant. 


Do.l 


Do. 


Do. r. To be Inchargc of 
Accounts work. 

2. To prepare tho 
budget of I. I. S.R. 
and keep control 
over its expenditure. 

Do. Disposing of con- 
fidential and urgent 
papers in the camp 
while the Director 
is on tour. 


1 j°% 


j°% 


100% 
by promo- 
tion failing 
which by 
direct 

recruitment. 


Upper Division 
Clerks (Includ- 
ing Senior 
Clerks) and 
Accounts Clerks 


Do, Rfl. 80 — ?— To work in the accounts 

130 — EB — establishment. Store 
8—200 — 10/2 purchase, Farm or any 
220 other Section- 


Stenographer 


Do .1 


Do. I. To work as Stenogra- 
pher attached to the 
various officers. 

2. To do any other 
correspondence work 
entrusted by the 
officer concerned. 


Junior Clerks and &, Do. 
Typists. 


Hindi Typist Do.J 


Rs. 60— 
3—81— 
£.B*~4 — 
iz 5 — 5 — 
130 

Do. 


To work aa Routine 
Clerk and Typist, 


Typing in Hindi and 
any other clerical 
work allotted bv the 
head of the office. 


8 50% 


5 J0% 


11 100 % 


I 100% 


50% is 

years 


50% 





Sec. S(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER II, I958/ASVINA 19, 18»0 


88l 


DULI 

Research, 

— 1 

Lucknow 





For direct recruitment only 


For promotion/transfer only 


Age limit 

Educational and other 
qualification required 

Period of 
probation 1 
if any 

Whether age and 
educational qua- 

lifications prescribed 
for direct recruit- 
ment will apply 
In case of appoint- 
ment by promotion 
transfer 

Grades /sources from 
which promotion/ 
transfer are to be 
made 

Composition 
of Dd?.C. 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 






* 

40 years. 

1. Graduate of any recognised 1 years 
University in India. 

2. About 7 year# experience 

in Establishment, Accounts 

and Stores Purchase work 
preferably In a Govt, Office. 

Age relaxable. Edu- 
cational qualifica- 
tion# rexable for 
candidates with 

3 year# service In 
the next lower 

grade. 

Promotion from 

Accountant/Tocbnical 
Assistant (Hindi) 
R#,i6o — -10 — 330 

1. Director- 
Chairman. 

2. Five Senior 
Sectional 
Officers as 

Members. 

3. Adminis- 
trative 


Officer — 
Member- 
Secretary. 


40 years, At least Intermediate (with Do. 
English as one of the 
■abject s) and Prabhakar 
dr its equivalent in 
Hindi, preferably well 
experience In translation 
work. 


30 yean- Graduate, preferably in Do. 
Commerce with at least 5 
yean' experience of Ac- 
counts work. 


30 yean. A degree preferably In Do. 
Science. Must have a 
shorthand speed of 120 
words per minute. Office 
experience for at least 5 
yean as P. A. or Steno- 
grapher desirable. 

25 years. Graduate with Accounts and Do. 
Office experience. Good 
knowledge of noting and 
office procedure essential. 


25 years. 


1. Matriculate 

2. Speed 100 words per 
minute in shorthand and 
40 words per minute in 
Typewriting. 


Do. 


Yes 


mJifled employ- 
:i in the grade of 
i. 80 — 120 in Central 
nvetnment Offices, 
f permanent 

' D. Ci. of the 
entral Secretariat 
lerical Service 

idre are selected 
f appointment 

1 this post, they, 
ill be entitled 

► a ipedal PfY 

r Rs. 30/- 

Stead of 
ir cent of 


pyy 

only 

20 

their 


Do. 


Do. U, D. C. and Accounts 

Clerk in the seal* of 
Rs. 80 — 5 ^ 11 ° 
E.B. — 8—200— 

10/2 — 220. 

Age and educational By promotion from 
qualifications re- Stenographers, 
laxablo for de- 
partmental candl- 
tes otherwise suit 
able. 


Do. 


Do. 


Age refutable. Edu- 
cational qualifica- 
tion# rclaxablc 
for candidates 

with 3 year's service 
in next lower grade. 


Junior Clerks and 
Store Keepers 

In the scale of 

Rs. 610—130. 


Age reUxable. 


Junior Clerks and 
typists who know 
Stenography. 


Do. 


Do. 


25 years. Matriculate with knowledge Do. 
■of typing. 


25 years. Matriculate with a typing Do, 
speed of 25 word# P«r 
minute In Hindi. 


882 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 11, 1958/ASVINA 19, 1880 [Pa»t II 


I 

1 

3 4 

5 6 7 

8 

9 

Cashier 

Class III 
Ministerial 
Non-Gazctted 

Re, 60—3 — 8 1— To work as Cashier 

EB— 4 — 125 — J — 130 

O/ire Rs. 

l5 / z. * 

special 

p*y). 

I .. 100% 



Store Keeper 

Do. 

Re, 60— -3— Receipt and Iseue of 

81 — EB — Store. 

4—125—5 

130. 

5 IOO% 



Farm Super In- 
Undent. 

Claes III 
Techni- 
cal 

Non- 

Gazetttd 

Non- 

Rj. 300— In charge of the Farm 

15 — 350. of the Inetltute, 

I J0%| 

50% 



Ministerial . 


Engineering Re- Do- Do. General Supervision l Do.' .. Do. 

search Assistant, of the workshop. 


Assistant Farm Do. Rs. 160— i. To assist the Farm I Do. .. Do. 

Superintendent, io — 33o- Superintendent. 

a. To supervise Farm 
operations. 


RiKKCb AuJitut Do. Do. To Molil Sootlonal 8 Do. .. Do. 

Officers in the ex- 
ecution of Rcaearch 
proJectn.S 


Statistical Awls- Do. 
taut. 


Do.^ Planning of Field ex- x 100% 

peri meats and Sta- 
tistical analysis of 
research data. 


Senior Mlcroblo- Do, 
logical Assistant. 


Do.J To assist Sectional 
Officer In execution 
of Research work. 


100 % 

(if no sui- 
table 

candidate 
1 b available 
under inis 
category 
than by 
direct re- 
cruitment). 


Sec. S(i)] 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : 

OCTOBER 11, I958/ASVINA 19, 1680 

883 

10 

f 

II 

12 

13 14 

15 

ij 

yean. 

Matriculate with office 

experience, 

One 

yc»r 

Age relexable. From Junior Clerks 

Do. 

Da. 

Matriculates with experience 
of handling stores, 

Do, 


Do. 

35 

years- 

1. M.$c. (Agri.) from a 

recognised University or 

H-Sc. (Agri.) and Associate of 

Ac I.A,R,I (for equi- 

valent diploma). 

2. yhould have experience of 
managing a Farm. 

1 

1 

Do. 

Only age relaxeble. Assistant Farm 
Minimum educa- Superintendent 

tional qualified- In toe scale of Rs. 

tlons for depart- 160— io— - 33®- 

mental candidates, 
degree in Agricul- 
ture of a University 
or its equivalent. 

Do. 

35 

years. 

B.[Sc. (Engg.) with at least 2 
tear** experience of Farm 
Cultivation. Diploma in 
Mechanical Engineering 
and 5 years experience 

In the management of a 
modern and well-equip- 
ped workshop. 

Do. 

Age relaxable. From (Engineering 

Research Assistant 
in the scale of Rs. 
160—10—330). j 

D®-1 

3* 

years. 

I. B.Sc. (Agri.) from a re- 
cognised University or 
Associate ol the I.A-R.1- 
(or equivalent diploma). 

Do. 

Do. Assistant Agriculture 

Inspector. 

De. 


2. Should have experience 
of managing a farm. 




3® 

year*. 

I. M.Sc. or M.Sc. (Agri.) 
in the subject for which 
recruitment is to be made, 
orB.Sc. or B.Sc. 

(Agri) with post-graduate 
diploma. 

Do. 

Age relaxable, Edu- From Junior Scicnti- 
cational qualifies- fle Assistant In the 

tions not relaxable scale of R». 80 — 220. 

below B.Sc. (Agri.). 

D®. 


2. At least 3 years experience 
of Sugarcane Research. 





3. For Engineering Section 
B.Sc. (Eng.) from a re- 
cognised University, pre- 
ferably with experience of 
Agricultural Machinery. 




?o 

years. 

1. M.Sc. In Mathematics 
with Statistic# or M.Sc. 
in Statistics. 

Do. 

■* 



2, Preference to a Diploma 
holder from Indian Stan- 
dard Institute. 




3® 

years. 

M. Sc. or M.Sc. (Agri.) 
in Chemistry, or B.Sc., 
or B. Sc. (Agri.) with post- 
graduate diploma in Agri- 
cultural Chemistry with 

specialisation, in Soil Mi- 
crobiology, with 3 years 
Research experience. 

Do, 

Age relexable. Edu- From Junior Scien- 
catlonal qualiflea- tifle Assistant, 

tlons not relaxable Field Assistant and 

below B.Sc, (Agfi). Laboratory Assis- 

tants.inthe Scale of 
Ri. 80—230 and 
Rs. 60—130. 

Do. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER II, 1958/ASVINA 19, 1880 [Paht II 


i * 3 4 


567 8 9 


Senior Soil Ai- Do. Do. Do. , . 1 

iUtant. 


Do. 


Senior Phyiiolo- Do. Do. Do. , . 1 

gical AaoliUnt. 


Do. 


Senior Chemical Do. Do. Do. 

Afluiitimt 


Do' 

(if not 
•ui table 
candidate 
i* available 
Under thia 
category 
then by 
direct re- 
cruitment) 


Senior Draft*- Do- Do. Preparation of detailed I . . . . io«ft 

m »p. drawing! of machine 

part! AaxL Imple- 
ment! and Machin- 
ery etc. 


Librarian Do. Da. To be Inoharge of 1 100% 

Library. 


Mechanic . Do. R*. 15^7 Maintenance «nd over- 1 30% *. 30% 

— 183. haul of Farm and 

Workehop machinery. 


Milling Machine Do. Ri. 125 — 6 Operating the Milling 1 Do. 

Operator. — 183. Machine. 


Do. 



Sac. 5{1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958/A5VINA 19, 18S0 


i2 


13 


H 


15 


30 M, Sc M or M. Sc. (Agri.) Do- Do. Do. Do. 

years in Soil Chemistry. or 
B. Sc., or B. Sc. (Agri.) 
with post graduate Dip- 
loma In Soil Chemistry 
with 3 years Research 
experience. 


30 M, Sc., or M. Sc. (Agri,) 
year* iti Botany or Chemistry 
with specialisation in 
Plant Physiology, or B. Sc- 
or B. Sc, (Agri.> 
with post graduate dip- 
loma in Plant Physiology 
with 3 years Research 
experience. 


30 Mjj Sc, (Chemistry) or M. Sc. 
years (Agri.) In Agricultural 
Chemistry or B. Sc. or 
B. Sc. (Agri.) with post 
graduate diploma in Ag- 
ricultural Chemistry, with 
| years' research experi- 
ence or B. Sc. (Agri.) or 
B. Sc. (with Chemistry), 
with 5 years experience of 
research i D sugar or sugar- 
cane Chemistry. 


30 Etwntfal. — 1. Must have 
years paaued a Diploma course 
in draftsman- slrip with 
ihachine drawing as one 
of the main subjects from 
recognised Institution. 


2. Must have at least three 
yjcarii experience as a 
mechanical draftsman in a 
Government office or En- 
gineering firm of repute. 


Do. 


Do. From Junior Scien- 

tific Assistant and 
junior Chemical 
Assistants, in the 
scale of Rs. 80— 
220. 


Do. 


Age relttxablc— qua- 
lifications not rela- 
xable below B. Sc., 
or B. Sc* (Agri,) 


From Junior Scien- 
tific Assistants, 
Junior Chemical 
Assistants, Lab- 
oratory Assistant* In 
the scale ol 80-“ 
220 and Demons- 
tration Assistant 
(Gur & Khandsorf) 
in the acaJ* of Rs. 

1 20 — 22Q. 


Do. 


From permanent/ 
Qua si-permanent 
Draftsman in the 
scale of Rs. 100— 

185. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


30 Essential.^ 1. Graduate Do. 

years in Science or Agriculture. 

2. Diploma or degree in 
Library Science from any 
recognised University or 
Institute. 

“Experience as 
a Librarian in some Te- 
chnical institute. 


Do. I. MuBt have a diploma in Do. 
Mechanical or Automobile 
Engineering from any re- 
aognised institution, with 
ut least 4 years practical 
experience m the maintenance 
and overhaul ol tractors 
Faun Machinery and 
jumping Plants, or must 
have minimum ol 5 years 
practical experience in the 
maintenance and overhaul 
Ot nactuis Agricultural 
Implements on a pumping 
plants. 

2. shop experience 

wall be an additional qua- 
lifications. 


From Milling mac- Do. , 

hine operator* Tur- 
ners, Fitters, Dril- 
lers, Welders and 
Tractor Drivers, In 
the scale of Ks. 6<>“ 

105. 


Do. Must have diploma of the Do. 
Artis en class from any 
recogmued institution. 


From Turners, Fitters, Do. 
Drillers, Wel- 
ders, in the scale 
of Rb. 60 — 105. 



886 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 11, 1958/ASVINA 19, 1880 [Part II 


I 


2 3 


4 5 6 7 3 9 


Rs. 

Demonstration Do. iao — 8 — 200 To assist Sectional 1 . . . . *oo% 

Assistant. — EB — 10/2 Officers in the execu- 

— 220, tion of Research 

work. 


draftsman . 


Do. Rb. 100—5— -125 Preparing layout chats, 
—6 — 155 — * maps & graphs. 
EB— 6— 

185. 


1 roo% 


Photopr apher-cum- 
Artist. 

Do. 

Do. 

Drawing oF diseased 
specimens of cane 

In ink and water 
colour, paints, pho- 
tograph of diseased 
■pedmens micro - 
photography-material 
mounted on ftlldea. 
Map sketching and 
lettering. 

) DOv 


Junior Scientific 
Assistant. 

Do. 

Rb. 80—5 — 120 Field and Laboratory 
— EB — 8 — duties . 

— 200 — 10/2 
— 220. 

4 50% 

. . ;°% 

Senior Scientific 
Assistant. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

I Do. 

D®. 

Junior Chemical 
Assistant. 

Do, 

Do, 

Laboratory duties 

2 Do. 

. Do. 

Artist-cum-Th oto- 
grapber. 

Do. 

Do. 

Drawing of diseased 
specimens of cane 
in ink and water 
colour, paints, pho- 
tography of diseas- 
ed specimens, Micro- 
photography of 

material mounted 

on slides, Map sket- 
ching and lettering. 

x 1 00% 

* 

Laboratory Assist- 
ant. 

Do. 

Do. 

To assist Sectional 
Officer in the execu- 
tion of Research 
work. 

2 100% 

* 

Senior Computor. 

Do. 

Do. 

To compile statistical 
data. 

1 

100% but 
if no suit- 
able candidate 
available 
then 

by direct 
recruitment. 

Setter & Pinner . 

Do, 

Do. 

To work as 4 Setter 
and Pinner in Ento- 
mology Section. 

X 50% 

. 5o % 


2* To help the Resear- 
ch Assistant In co- 
ordination of Re- 
search Work. 


Sec. Sli)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958/ASVINA 19, 1880 88^ 


30 yearn 

Esatulal. — M.Sc. (Chem.) or 
B.Sc,, with 2 years practi- 
cal experience in a Gur & 
Khanaaari Factory. 

Dnirable . — A diploma In 

Sugar Technology from a 
recognised Institute. 

Do. 

Age and Educational 
qualification* will 
not apply In the 
case of permanent/ 
Ou isi-permanent 
Laboratory Assist- 
ant.] 

Laboratory As dist- 
ant in the scale of 

Rs. Bo 220. 

Do. 

Do. 

1. Should possess a drafts- 
man's diploma from any 
recognised Institute. 

Do, 



■- 


2 . Should have worked fls a 
draftsman In a Govt. Office 
or Commercial Firm of 
good standing for a mini- 
mum of three years. 





Do. 

A Diploma or certificate of 
the School of Arts, profi- 
ciency In lettering, pencil 
drawing, water colour paint- 
ing, oil painting, photogra- 
phy and Microphoto- 
graphy. 

Do. 




Do. 

B.Sc. or B.Sc. (Agri.) with 
atleopt three years’ experi- 
ence of sugarcane research 
in the required subject. 

Do. 

Age and Educational 
qualifications re- 
laxable for depart- 
mental candidates 
with 3 years service 
in Junior Scientific 
Assistant grade. 

From Junior Scientific 
Assistant in the 

scale of Rs. 6o — ijo. 
Field Assistant in 
the scale of Rs. 

6o — 150. 

Do. 

Do. 

B.Sc., B.Sc. (Agri,) with ut 
least throe years’ experience 
of research in the required 
subject. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do, 

D«. 

25 ! 

B.Sc. or B.Sc. (Agri.) with 
Chemistry as one of the 
optionala with 2 year* ex- 
perience of work In recog- 
nised Chemical laboratory. 

Do. 




30 yearn 

A Diploma or certificate of 
the School of Art*, profi- 
ciency in lettering, pencil 
drawing, water colour 
painting, Oil painting, pho- 
tography and Micro-photo- 
graphy. 

Do. 




Do. 

Essential. — M.Sc. (Chemistry) | 
or B.Sc., with one year 
experience of analysis of 
sugar and other sugar fac- 
tory products. 

Do. 

... 


... 

25 yearn 

Essential . — -Should bo a 
graduate with Statistics 
or Mathematical Statisti- 
cs as one of the subjects. 

Do. 


From permanent/Qua sl- 
pormanenti Junior 
Computer In the 
scale of R1.60 — 150. 

D*. 

30 yearn 

Essential, — B.Sc., or B.Sc. 
(Agri.) with experience of 
handling large scale col- 
lection or insect pests of 
sugarcane, their rearing, 
preservation, setting and 
pinning etc. 

Do. 

Age and Educational 
Qualifications ro- 
laxablo for depart- 
mental candidates 
with 3 years ser- 
vice In Junior Sci- 
entific Assistant/ 

From permanent 

Qu a si-permanent 
Scientific Assistant/ 
Field Assistant In 
the scale of Rs. 
60—150. 

Do. 


Field Assistant 
Gr»den. 


"888 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 11, I958/ASVINA 19 # 1880 [Fait II 


I 2 

3 

4 5 

6 

7 

8 

9 



Rfl. 





Agriculture In ape - 
tor. 

Do. 

80 — 220 — To supervise Farm 

Sc 80—5 — 120. Operations. 

2 100% 




Assistant Agri- 

culture Inspec- 
tor. 

Do. 

80 — 5 — 120 Do. . 

1 100% 




Laboratory Aasls- 

Do. 

60—4 — 120 Lobofstory dutlc. 

2 Do. 




Field Assistant . 

Do. 

Do. Experimental field work 

6 J0% 


50% 


Junior Scientific 
Assistant. 

Do. 

Do, Do . 

I 100% 




Computor . 

Do. 

Do. To compute Statistical 

Data. 

I 100% 




T ruck-cum- Pump- 
ing Plant Driver 

Do. 

60— -5/a— -75 Running of Truck and 
— KB — 3— Pumping plant. 

105. 

1 100% 





Driller . Do. Do. Operating bench and i ioo% 

Radial drilU. 


Welder , . Do. Do. Operating Ga* and Ate i ioo% 

Wotting equipment. 


Fitter . Do. Do. Bench Fitting , i 50% . . 50% 


Electrician , * Do. Do. Attending to the Inttal- I 50% .. 50% 

ation and maintenance 
erf electric motru und 
electrical equipment. 




Swl 8 (il] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; OCTOBER 11, 7958/A8VINA 1», 1880 889 


10 


11 


12 13 


14 15 


30 year* Must be B.Sc., (Agr.) with Do' Age relaxable. 
«t leant two yar» experi- 
ence of Faun cultivation. 

Da, Do, „ . Do. 


Assistant Agriculture Do. 
Inspector. 


25 yean Inter. Sc. or Inter Sc, ‘Agri’ Do, 

or Agricultural Diploma 
holders from a recognised 
Agricultural School with 
Science with at least 2 years' 
experience of laboratory 
work. 

Do. Inter. Sc. (Agr.) Inter, Sc. Do, 

Biology or Diploma holder 
from any recognised agri- 
cultural School, with prac- 
tical experience of field work. 


From Ficdman and Do. 

Field Attendants 
in the scale of Rs. 

40—60 & Rs. 35 — 

50. 


Doi 


Do, 


Do. 


Da. | Should be a Matriculate 1st Do. 
Division. 

Dftirobli . — Should be able 
to operate Calculating Ma- 
chine, 

30 years r. Should possess a valid li- Do, 
cence for driving heavy 
transport vehicles. 

2. Must have practical ex- 
perience of at leant 5 years 
as a heavy transport vehicle 
driver. 

3- Should be able to operate 
| oil-engine driven pump 
; set*. 

4. Should be literate, smart 
end polite In manners. 


30 year* 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


1. Mult be able to understand 
simple engineering draw- 
ings, 

2. Must have a minimum of 
3 yearn’ experience as a 
driller in any well equip- 
ped workshop. 3. Expe- 
rience as bench-fitter or 
Machinist will be consi- 
dered an additional 
qualification. 

I. A Welder's Diploma from 
any recognised Institute. 


Do. 


Do. Age relaxable. 


2, A minimum of 5 year’s 
experience both of Gas and 
Electric Welding in any 
well equipped and modem 
workshop. 

1. Must have a Bench Fitter’s Do, 
Diploma from recognised 
Institute. 

2. Must have minimum of 3 
years’ experience as Bench 
Fitter in any well equipped 
and Modem Workshop. 

1. Must have an electrician’s Do, 
diploma from any recognised 
Institute. 

2. Must have minimum of 3 
years’ experience in test- 
ing installation and re- 
pair* of electric motors 
instruments and other elec- 
tric equipments. 


Do. Fitter mate in the Do- 

scale of R«. 40-1-60 


Age relaxable: Switch Board Attendant in Do: 

scale of Rs. 40-60. 




890 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 11 , 1958/ASVlNA 19, 1880 [Part II 

i 1 3 4 56789 


Turner . . Do- Do. Operating lathes, 4 I 100% 


Tractor Drivers Do. Do. Operating farm Tractor z 50% «. 50% 


Senior Carpenter 

Do. 

Do. 

To work as c rpenter 
in the Workshop and 
Institute. 

1 100% 


Tube-well Operator 

Do, 

Do. 

To operate Tube-Well 

1 100% 

.. 

Gaj-MUtri 

Do- 

Do. 

To operate plants 

1 i°o% 


Tin-Smith , 

Do. 

Do. 

To work as Tin-Smith 

1 100% 


Head Mlntry 

Do. 

Do. 

Maintenance and over- 
hauling of different 
machineries used in 

Gut and Khandsari 
factory etc. 

1 100% 

.. 


3(J)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 11, 1958/ASVINA 19, 1880 891 


1. Must have a turner’s dip- 
loma from any recognised 
Institute. 

2. A minimum of 3 years’ ex- 
perience as a turner on 
Heavy lathes with all geared 
head stock in a well equipped 
and modern workshop, 

3. Experience a* bench fitter 
will be considered an 
additional qualification. 

1. A minimum of 5 years 'ex- 
perience in the operation of 
both wheel and track type 
tractors. 

2. An elementary knowledge 
of the machinism of trac- 
tors. 

3. A good physique. 

4. A valid licence for driving 
tractors. 

J. Experience in the handling 
of the earth moving ma- 
chinery and/or possession 
of a valid licence for driv- 
ing heavy transport vehicle 
will be considered as an 
additional qualification. 


Age relaxable if other- Promotion from 
wise fit. Tractor cleaners 

in the scale of R*. 
40 — 2 — 60. 


1. Must have a minimum of 
5 years 1 experience as a 
Carpenter in a well equip- 
ped and modern workshop 
or in firm of Cabinet 

maker. 

2. Must be able to under- 

stand simple engineering 
drawing. 

EsuntiaL — -Must be a qualified 
general Mechanic. 

Dsiirabfct — Three years* ex- 
perience of erection and 
operation of motors 
and pumps of pipe fitting. 


T. Ewntial . — Must be a qua- 
lified general Mechanic or 
automobile Mechanic. 

2. Dtiirabt *. — Three Years' 

experience of operating 
electric motors. 


1. Must have a Tin-smith 
diploma from any recog- 
nised Institute. 

2. Must have a minimum of 3 
yeate’ experience In any 
recognised workshop. 

3 . Experience as a copper 
smith will be an additional 
qualification. 


30 ' years, Essential — Must have passed a 

course for general machines 
from a recognised Institute 
and must have at least 2 years 
practical experience as 

G eneral mechanic in a sugar 
actory or Engineering 
W orkshop. 

D tsirabU — Experlcnc c in the 
erection of machinery. 


892 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11 . 1958/ASVlNA 19. 1880 (Taut n 


1 2 . 


3 


4 


5 6 7 


8 


9 


Rs* 

Turner Fitter . Do. 502-60-5/2*73 Operating 1 


100 % 


Jeep Driver . Do. Do. Running of Jeep 


I 


100% 


Fitter ♦ , Class rv . 40 — 2—60 Generally as mG 2 50 % . . 50 % 

^Assistant. 1 ! 


Switch Board Do. . Do. . General ns an Assis- r 100 % 

Attendant, taut Electrician. 


Tractor Cleaner* E Do. . Do, . To help the tractor 2 50 % .. % 

driver in tractor 

'maintenance. ' 


Gestctner-Opcrat*r Do, . Do. . To operate the 1 100 % 

Gestetner Duplicat- (To be rc- 

ing Machine. crulted from 

outside if 
no candi- 
date by 
promotion 
available). 


Field man * 


Time-keeper 


Do. 


Do. 


40 — 1—50— 1. To work as Field- 
2 — 60 man under Farm 

Suptd. and 

Agronomist. 

2. To supervise the 
field work a« 
desired by the 
Farm Superintendent. 

3. To take work from 
labourers. 

Do. , t. Taking of attendance. 

2. Preparation of 

.[Chitta and other 
allied items. 


5 50 % 


100 % 


30 % 


Black Smith 


Do. 


Do. . 1. To work as a 1 100 % 

Blacksmith, 


f* 



Sic, bA] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER H, 1058/ASVINA 19, 1080 gg j 


13 


14 


15 


Dp. 


Essential . — Must have a Turner's Do. 

Diploma from a recognised 
Institute. Mu»t have ex- 
perience of having worked 
both an a Turner and ns a 
Fitter in an Engineering 
Workshop covering a period 
of not lens than 2 years. 


Ago and qualification Fitter Coolies in the 
will not apply in the scale ofRs. 30-4-35 
case of permanent/ 

Quail Permanent 
Fitter Coolies in the 
scale of Rs. 30-1/2-35, 


Do. 


30 Years 


Do. 


D*. 


1. Should posies* a valid Do. 

licence for driving transport 
Vehicles. 

2. Must have practical ex- 
perience of atleaat 5 year* 
as _ a transport vehicle! 
driver. 

3. Should be able to operate 
oil engine driven pump Bets, 

4. Should be literate, smart 
and polite In mariners, 

1. Must be able to understand, 6 months 
simple engineering drawings. 

2. Must have at least 3 years* 
experience a* Bench Fitter 
in any well equipped and 
modern workshop, 

X. Must have a Wireman's Do. 
licence and at least 5 years' 
practical experience aa a 
wireman ana Switch Board 
Attendant in anv large elec- 
tric engineering concern. 

2, Experience of erection of 
overhead lines will be an 
additional qualification. I 

1. Must possess good Do. 

physique. 

2. Must have worked as a 
cleaner of motor vehicle for 
at least 2 years. 

3. Possession of a valid 

licence for driving tractors 
will be an additional qualifi- 
cation. 


Age relaxable ‘ „ From workers of 

workshop below 
scale of Rs, 40—2— 
60. 


Age relaxable if Promotion from 
otherwiie fit. tractor cleaner in 

the scale of 
Rs. 30 — 4 — 35. 


Do, &ss*n£iaf — - 

1. Should have passed VIII 
Class examination. 

2. Should possess a certifi- 
cate of porilciency in 
operation of Gestetner 
Duplicators. 

Desirable 

3. Should have at least one 
year experience of operating 
Gestetner Duplicator, 

25 years j. Experience of work as field- Do. 
man, supervision of filed 
for at least 2 years. 

2. Should possess knowledge 
of Agricultural cropping 
specially sugarcane etc. 

3. Should be able to read 
and write. 


Do. Age and Educational From Daftry/Fcon* 
qualifications re- in the scale of 
taxable upto VIII 35 — 1 — 50/30 — 4 - 

Class pass only, 35, 


From Field Atten- 
dant, Field Jamn- 
dars and Field 
counters in the 
scale of Rs. 
35— 1— 50.0 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do* 


Do, I. Should have worked as Do. | 
Time-Keeper or Office 
Assistant in Government 
Offico or private firm of 
repute for at least three 
years. 

2, Must be middle pass. 

3 o years i. Must have good physique Do, 4 

2, Must have a minimum of 
5 years experience as 
Blacksmith in any well 
equipped and modem 
workshop. 

3, Must be able to under- 
stand simple engineering 
drawing. 

4, Experience as a Power 
hammer operator will be 
an additional qualification. 


894 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1M8/ASVINA 19 , 1880 [PA*T II 


Junior Carpenter 


Store-mate , 


Field-Counter 


Dftftry 


Book Sorter 


-Laboratory Atten- 
dant. 


Jamadar (Field) . 


Fleld'Attendant . 


Workshop Coolie 


JMuicum Attendant 


% 3 


4 


5 6 7 


8 


9 


Rs, 


Do. . Do. . To work us Carpenter I 100 % 

in the Workshop and 
Institute. 


Do. . Do. . Generally as Assistant 50 % * * 50 % 

Store Keeper. 


Do. . 35 — 1 — 50 To work In field and 3 50 % . . 50 % 

carrying out the 
scheduled profjram- 
mc of the section. 


Do. . Do. . To work as Daftry . 2 30 % 50 % 


Do. . Do. . To arrange book#, in i 50 % 50 % 

library ana issue and 
receive them. 


Do. . 35 — 1 — 50 To work as Attendant 8 JO % . . 50 % 

30 — I — 35 i n fl eld and La- 

boratory. 


Do. , 35 — 1—50 Supervision of Labour 6 100 % 


Do. ’ Do. . To work in field and 5 100 % 

carrying out the 
scheduledjprogrumme 
of tho section 
concerned. 

Do. . Do. . To work as Coolie in 2 . . 100 % 

the Workshop. 


Do. , Do. . To look after the Mu- I 100 % 

scum Articles and 
clean them. 


10 

! ir 

12 

13 

14 

15 

Do. 

1, Must have a minimum of 

5 years experience as a 
Carpenter in a well equip- 
ped and modern workshop 
or in firm of Cabinet 
maker. 

2 . Must be able to understand 
simple engineering Draw- 
ing. 

Do. 




Do, 

1. Must he able to read and 
write English, 

2 . Must know the names and 

be able to recognise 

common engineering tools. 

Do. 


From workshop Coolie 
in the scale of 

R>. 35—1—50* 

Do. 

25 years 

X. Should be VIII Class 
passed. 

2 , Experience of cane cultiva- 
tion for at least two 
yanrs. 

3 . Ah Agricultural Dlplctna 
holder or High School 
whh Agriculture will be 
gl^rtn preference. 

6 months 


From the workers at 
the Farm in scale 
below Rs. 3 J — 1 — 

5o. 

Do. 

Do, 

1. Should be VIII Claw 
passed, 

2 . Should have worked as 
Daftri in any Govt. Office 
ot a private firm of repute 
f(M at least two years. 

Do. 


From the peons in 
the scale of Ri. 
30—35* 

Do. 

Do. 

Essential— 

Must have passed VIII 
Class In English with 
at leaBt 2 years experience 
of work as book sorter or 
should have passed High 
School. 

Do. 


From the peons In tha 
scale of Rs, 30 — ir 
—35* 

Do. 

Do t 

1. Vni Class Passed 

2 . Should be able to attend 
Laboratory work and 
filed work. 

3 . Should have working ex- 
perience as a Lab. or 

Held Coolie or Mate for 
at least 2 years. 

Do. 


DO. 

Do. 

D o. 

1 , VIII Claw passed 

(preferably). 

2 . Should have worked as 
Keldman for at least two 
years In a Govt, farm or 
private farm. 

Do. 




Do. 

1 . Should be at least VIII 
Class passed. 

2 . Experience of cane cultiva- 
tion for at least two years. 

Do. 




Do. 

I. Mu*t have a good 
physique. 

2 . Must know the names and 
be able to recognise com- 
mon Engineering tools. 

Do. 


From workshop coolie 
in the scale of 

Rs. 30 — I— 35* 

Do. 

Do. 

Essential . — 

1. Must have passed VlII 
Class. 

2 . Must have at least two 
years experience as atten- 
dant in a Biological 
Laboratory. 

Desirable,— 

I. Experience as Museum 
attendant will be an ad- 
ditional qualification. 

Do, 







Rs. 





Seedling Attendant 

DO. . 

Do. . 

To attend the seedling 
and take care of 
them. 

i 

too % 


Dart Roo m 
Attendant. 

Do. 

Do. . 

To help the Develop- 
ing and Printing of 
photographs. 

I 

too % 


Cattle Attendant . 

Do. . 

30 — i — 35 

Tn attend the cattles 
as directed by the 
Farm Superintendent. 

2 

100 % 


Tonga Driver 

Do. , 

Do. . 

To drive the Tonga . 

1 

loo % 

.. 

Ploughman 

Do. . 

Do. . 

Ploughing and other 
Craft duties. 

12 

too % , . 


Phenumutlc Ham- 
mer Operator- 

Do- . 

Do. . 

Operating Hammer . 

I 

103 % . . 


Store coolie 

Do. . 

Do. . 

1. Work** Store Coolie 
under the Store 
Keeper. 

2, To issue materials, 
tool., Implements 
etc, ns per Instruc- 
tions of the Store 
Keeper. 

X 

too % . . 

.. 

Watchman (Crop) 

Do. . 

Do. 

, Watching of Institute** 
property. 

8 

100 % 

.. 

Truck-Cleaner 

Do. . 

Do. . 

To help the truck 
driver. 

I 

100 % 


"cons 

Do, . 

Do. . 

To work in the section 
concerned a» peon. 

17 

100 % 


Chowkldsr . 

Do. , 

. Do. * 

To Watch and Ward the 
Govt, property. 

12 

100 % 


Workshop Coolie 

Do. 

Do. . 

To work as Coolie In 
the Workshop, 

2 

loo % 




Sec. 8(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 11, 1958/ASVtNA 19, 1889 897 


10 


II 


11 13 


14 


15 


do. 

VTTI Class passed with at least** 
two years experience of Ag-* 1 ! 
ricullural Farm Operations. 

do. 


3o years 

Essential. Should he VTTI 
Class. 

Desirable. Should have work- 
ing experience of develop- 
ing and printing of 

photograph for at least one 
year. 

do, 


25 years 

Should have worked for two 
years ns Animal Keeper in 
a Govt, or Private Dairy. 

do. 


do. 

1. Must know the art of driv- 

ing and maintaining the 
Horse and Tonga. 

2. Should also posse*)® the 
driving licence. 

do. 


do. 

Should hnve experience of 
working u n Agricultural la- 
bourers specially plough 
men for at leant two years. 

r 

do. 


do, 

1. Must possess a good phy- 
sique. 

2. A minimum of 3 year® ex- 
perience as :i power ham- 
mer operator in any well 
equipped and modern 
workshop. 

3. Experience ns black-smith 
will be considered as an 
additional qualification. 

do. 


do. 

Should be atleust VITI Class 
passed nnd should have ex- 
perience of working as Store 
Ajltcndunt, Store mate 

of Coolie, in any store 
of Govt, office or private 
firm for utlenst two yeras. 

2. Should have the knowledge 
of understanding the store 
articles. 

do. 


do. 

1 , Should have worked either 
in Govt. Office or uny pri- 
vate firm ns a Chowkidur 
for at least two yearn, 

2, Good Phyuiquo. 

do. 


do. 

1. Good physique 

2. Should have worked an a 
Peon either in Govt office 
or private firm for at leust 

2 years. 

do. 


do. 

1. Should have passed VIII 
Class. 

2. Should have worked as 
Peon cither in Govt, office 

Or private firm for atlcaat 

2 yearn. 

do. 


do. 

1. Should have experience of 
working as Chowkidar 
either in Govt. Office or 
private firm or mills for 
at least 2 years. 

do. 


do. 

I , Must have a good physique. 

do. 



2, MuBt know the names and 
be able to recopniac com- 
mon Engineering tools. 


898 THE GAZETTE 

OF INDIA: OCTOMR 11 , 1958 /ASVINA 19 , 

1880 [Part n 

I 

2 

3 4 

5 & 

789 

Store Attendant . 

Do. . 

30^— i — 35 Working as Store- 

35 — 1 — 50 Attendant. 

Ri. 

2 TOO % 


Fitter Coolie 

Do. 

30 — § — -3 5 To assist tbe Head 

Mistri and Fitter, 

1 100 % 

.. 

F*rt*h 

Do. . 

Do. . To clean office tables 
and chairs. 

2. To supervise clean- 
ing rooms and the 
building by sweepers. 

3 - To be responsible 
for opening and clos- 
ing of office rooms 
etc. 

1 too % 

*■ 

M»li 

Do. . 

Do. . To work as Gardener . 

I too % 

/ 

Sweeper 

Do. . 

Do. ♦ To clean the floor 
rooms and building 
of the Institute. 

3 too % 

„ ** 

Under Out Grading Scheme*' 

— 



Research Assistant 

Non- 

Gazetted 

Non- 

MinlaterUl 
Class 111 . 

160 — 10 — 330 To aa.iat aection .1 
officer in the 

execution of rc- 
aeerch project relat- 
ing to Our end 
Khandsari. 

J too % 


Semple Collector 

Do. 

60 — 3 — Hi — To collect gur .ample. . 
EB— 4— uj 

—5—130 

1 100 % 

.. 

Junior Research 
Assistant. 

Do. . 

*0-5-130 Field and Labour 

— KB— 8— duties 

200 — 'X0/2 — * 

220. 

2 100 % 


Note.— ( a) A ge limit relaxable for direct recruitment in favour of exceptional categories of persona, 4 .g>, Schedule 
(£) Appointment otherwise than by projnotiop aha]) be aubiect to the order regarding communal represent*- 



do. 

Passed VIII Standard and 
experience of hindling 
different types of stores. 
Mutt know cycling. Pre- 
ference will be given to 
peawns with higher edu- 
cational qualifications. 

do. 

do. 

Essiruial. Should have a 
Fitter’s Diploma or 2 years 
practical experience of 
working at a Fitter Coolie in 
a Sugar Factory or work- 
shop. 

do. 

do. 

Should have worked either in 
any Govt, office or private 
firm as Frash for about a 
year. 

do. 

3 * yetn 

Experience in gardening for 
three yean. 

do. 

aj years 

Shoufld have worked as ' Swee- 
per for about two years. 

do. 

30 years 

Etssnuial. Master’s of equi* 
valent Honours degree in 
Chemistry on Degree in 
Science followed by a 
Diploma in Sugar Techno- 
logy from a recognised 
Institution. 

DtsWabil*. Experience of 
anUysis of samples. 

I year 

23 yeari 

Bimtial. Dejttec In Science 
with Chemi.tiy or Indu.- 
tcl.l Chentlitry. 

do. 

do. 

Eiwuial. B.Se. with Chemistry 
DaitrabU, 2 year* experience 
of Ub. Work, preferably in 
Sugar/or Khandiari Fac- 
tory. 

do. 


Castes/Tribes, Displaced persons, etc, to the extent granted by the Govt, of India, Ministry of Home Affairs, 
lion inued by the Govt, of India, Miniitry of Home Affairs, from to time to time. 

[No. 4-65/57.S.Cane Instt.] 



yoo THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER li, 1958/ASVlN'A 19, 1880 [Bart ii 


New Delhi, the 4 th October 1958 

G.S.R. 936. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (1) of rule 
8 of the Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Joules, 1957, 
the President hereby directs that the following further amendments shall be made 
in the notification No, S.R.O. 2235, dated the 14th June, 1957, of the Government 
of India, in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture (Department ox Agriculture) 
namely: — 

In the said notification, 

(I) Under Head, (a) Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research . — 

(a) in sub-head (i) Central Civil Posts, Class I, after the entry “Agrono- 

mist”, the entry "Gur Chemist” shall be inserted; and 

(b) in sub-head (ii) Central Civil Posts, Class II, after the entry "Assis- 

tant Entomologist”, the entry “Soil Survey Officer (Non-mimsterial)’' 
shall be inserted; 

(2) Under Head (£>) Sugarcane Breeding Institute . — 

in sub-head (ii) Central Civil Posts, Class II, after the entry “Entomolo- 
gist”, the entry "Assistant Entomologist non-mimsterial)” shall be 
inserted. 


[No. 4-56/58, SS. Cane Instt.] 
S, D. UDHRAIN, Under Secy. 



Sta S(i)] (tHE GAZETTE OF INDIA; OCTOBER 11, 1958/ASV1NA 19, 1880 90 I 


(Department of Agriculture) 

New Delhij the 3rd October 1958 

G.S.R. 931.— In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 
:09 of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules for recrult- 
nent to the General Central Service Class III and IV posts at the Tractor Training 
:entre, Budnl (Madhya Pradesh), namely: — 

.'HE GENERAL CENTRAL SERVICE CLASS III AND IV POSTS (TRACTOR 
TRAINING CENTRE, BUDNI) RULES, 1958. 

1. Short title and commencement. — (1) These rules may be called the General 
'-entral Service Class III and IV posts (Tractor Training Centre, Budni) Rules, 
i68. 

(il) They shall come into force at once. 

2. Method of recruitment. — Recruitment to the General Central Service Class 
I and IV posts at the Tractor Training Centre, Budni (Madhya Pradesh), shall 
■ made in accordance with the provisions contained in the Schedule hereto 
inexed. 



902 


THE GAZETTE OF INblA ; OCTOBER II, 195S/ASVINA 19, 1880 [Pact ti 


Name of 
post* 

Its classification 
whether 
gazetted or 
non-gazetted 
and whether 
Mlnistrlal or 
non- 

MinhtriaL 

Scale 

of 

Pay 

Duties 

No, 

of 

posts 

Percentage of posts to be filled by 

Direct Promotion Transfers 





ment 

by Senlo- 
aelcc- rity- 
tion cum-fit 
nes 


X 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 8 

9 


I. Training 

Assiitant, 


Class III Non- Rs. 
gazetted Nan- 200 — 10 — 
Ministerial. 300 


1, To impart instruc- 
tion* to the trainees on 
the maintenance, ope- 
ration, repairs and 
proper use of tractor* 
and other Farm 
machinery* 


2 . To impart instruction 
in farm practices and 
their actualapplication 
in the held etc, 


4 


50% by 
direct 
recruit - 
meat. 


3, To assist Officer In- 
charge, Tractor Train- 
ing Centre, by under- 
taking such duties 
from time to time at 
may in the opinion of 
the Officer Incharge be 
required to run the 
Institution. 


2. Shop and Class III Rs. IOO— 
Field Me- Non-gazetted 5 — 125 — 
chanic, Non-Minis- 6—153. 
t«lal. 


1. Running repairs, ad- 
justments. mainte- 
nance and operation of 
tractori and equip- 
ment in the held. 


<5 25% by 
direct 
recruit - 
ment. 


2. Major overhauling 
and repair* to tractors 
and Farm machinery 
In the workshop. 


3. Cook 


Class IV 


3. Handling and correc- 
tion of precision tools 
connected with heavy 
repairs etc. 

4. To assist Officer In- 
charge, T.T.C. by 
undertaking such du- 
ties from time to 
time as may in the 
opinion of the O I/C 
be required to run the 
institution, 

Rs. 30 — J — To cook meqls for the 
35 trainees. To perform 

such general duties a* 
the Officer Incharge 
TTC may detail him 
from time to time to 
run the institution. 


3 100% by 

direct 
recruit - 
ment. 


50% by 
transfer o 
qualified 
personnel 
from CTO 
or othei 
Depart- 
ment*. 


75% , W 

transfer of 
Junior 
Mechanic 
by Selec- 
tion from 
CTO out of 
those who 
have put 
in at least 3 
yrs, service 
as Jr, Ma- 
ch aenic. 


4. Waterman Clast IV 


-do- To procure and supply 3 -do- 
water at the Centre . 


Nom — The upper age limit prescribed for direct recruitment shall be relaxed In the case of Scheduled Cufltcij 
issued from time to time by the Government ot India, Ministry of Home Affairs. 


Sec. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER il, i95#/ASVINA 19, 1889 


963 


DUS 



For direct recruitment only 


For promotion/ Transfer only 


Age 

limits 

Educational or other 
qualifications required 

Period of 
probation if 
any 

Whether age and educa- 
tional qualification 
prescribed for direct 
recruitment will apply 
In case of appointment 
by promotion/transfer 

Orades/aources from 
which promotion/ 
transfers are to be 
made. 

Compositions 
of D. P. C. 

10 

If 

£2 

13 

14 

15 


25-30 years A liplomtor degree in one year 
rchxabkby mechanical or auto- 

the ippoint- mobile or Electrical 

ing autho- Engineering or a 

rity. degree in Agrlc ilture 

with Agri. Bnsg- 
one of the subjects 
or its equivalent 
with 5 years held or 
shop experience. 

Ability to express 
themselves and a 
sound knowledge of 
fundamentals. 

desirable 

Teaching experience. 


(1; Age ijmit prescribed From Chargeman CTO 
for direct recruitment working in CTO 
will not apply In In the grade of 
case of appointment Ri, 200—10 — 300 
made by transfer. while in the case of 

other departments 
(2) Educational quali- from personnel 
flcatlon will be re- fulfilling the pres- 
lexable at the discre- cribed qualifica- 
tion of the appoint- tions. 

lQg authority. 


20-21 re- A certificate of recog- one year | -do- 

laxa 6 le by nised course of 

appointing training in shop mc- 

authority, chanlcsorltoio yrs. 

practical experience 
in large concerns 
dealing with over- 
haul repairs to trac- 
tors automotive# 
and Agrl. equip- 
ment In large argani- 
sations like CTO. 

Should be able tp 
read and write 
English with some 
proficiency. 


From Junior mecha- As constituted 
nics working In by the Com- 

the CTO, potent autho- 

rity. 


1SJ-23 Essential : pttviusex- 6 months, 

per ico ce in line. 

Should preferably 
know oQe Indi an 
Language. 


-do- Essential .‘previous ex- -do- 
perience in line. 

Should preferably 
read and write one 
Indian language. 


Scheduled Tribes, displaced persons and other special categories in accordance with the general orderi 

[No. 4-3/68-MY.] 
GURBACHAN SINGH, Under Secy. 


§64 THE GAZETTE OG iNdiA : OCTOBER 11 . i958/ASVlNA 19, 188(1 [Part It 


(Department of Agriculture) 

New Delhi, the 6th October 1058 < 

G.S.R. 938.— In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 52 of the Agri- 
cultural Produce (Development and Warehousing) Corporations Act, 1956 (28 of 
1956), the CenLraJ Government hereby makes the following further amendments 
in the Agricultural Produce (Development and Warehousing) Corporations Rules, 
1956, namely: — 

In the said Rules: — 

(1) in rule 6, in sub-rule (1), after the words “from the date on which it 

is accepted", the words “by the Central Government or on the 
expiry of a period of one month from the date of its receipt by the 
Central Government, whichever is earlier" shall be inserted; 

(2) in rule 13, after the words “Executive Committee” at the end, the 

words “or on the expiry of a period of one month from the date of 
its rccc ; pt by the Secretary, whichever is earlier” shall be inserted; 

(3) in rule 32, m sub-rule (3), the last sentence shall be omitted. 

I No. 1-9/56-Coop. I.] 
R. VENGU, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT & COMMUNICATIONS 
(Departments of Communications & Civil Aviation) 

New Delhi, the 24 th September 1958 

G.S.R. 939. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sections 4 and 7 of the 
Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 (13 of 1885), and in supersession of all existing orders 
on the subject, the Central Government hereby makes the following rules for 
the conduct of Wireless telegraph transmitting and receiving stations, in the 
amateur service, established, maintained or worked in India by persons licensed 
under the said Act, 


RULES 

1. Short title and Commencement.— (i) These rules may be called the Indian 
Wireless Telegraphy (Amateur Service) Rules, 1958. 

(11) They shall come into force on the 1st day of January 1959, 

2. Definitions.— In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires: — 

(i) “amateur service” means a service of self training intercommunication and 

technical investigations carried on by amateurs that Is. by persons duly 
authorised under these rules interested in radio technique solely with 
a personal aim and without pecuniary interest; 

(ii) “amateur licence” means a licence for a type of wireless telegraph 

transmitting and receiving station in the amateur service; 

(itl) “wireless telegraphy” or “radio telegraphy” Includes wireless telephony 
or radio telephony, 

3. Necessity for licence, — No person shall operate an Amateur wireless telegraph 
Station except under and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the appro- 
priate licence under these rules. 

4. Categories of Amateur Licenses.— There shall be two categories of licences in 
the amateur service, namely: 

(I) Amateur Wireless Telegraph Station Licence, Grade I; 

(II) Amateur Wireless Telegraph Station Licence, Grade II, 

5. Application for licence— Every application for a licence, whether Grade I or 
Grade II, shall be made to the Central Government in Annexure 1 and shall be 
accompanied by an undertaking to the chert that the transmitting apparatus shall 
be operated in accordance with these rules and that the installation shall not be 
made accessible to any unauthorised person at any time. 



Sec. 3(i)J ±HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER il, 1958/ASViNA 19, 1880 


6. Eligibility for licence. — A person who 

(a) is a citizen of India, 

(b) is not less than 18 years of age, and 

(c) is in possession of a valid first, second or special class Radio Telegraph 

competency issued by the Director General, Posts & Telegraphs or 
the Central Government or has passed the examination for Amateur 
Central Governemnt or has passed the examination for Amateur 
Station Operator’s Certificate,* Grade I or Grade II. as the case may 
be, 

shall be eligible for a licence: 

Provided that: 

(i) The Central Government may grant a licence to nationals of foreign 
countries subject to such conditions as it may determine; 

(ii) applications from bona fide experimenters between the ages of 16 and 

18 years may be considered for the grant of amateur licence (Grade II), 
if they are accompanied by a certificate from the head of the educa- 
tional institution attended by the candidate or from his legal 
guardian that the applicant is interested in and competent to con- 
duct experiments in wireless telegraphy and if they are otherwise 
qualified; 

(iii) a Grade II license shall not be granted to an amateur club. 

*The syllabi for the examinations for both the grades of the certificate are 
printed as Appendix I and Appendix II. 

7. Grant of Licence. — Every licence, Grade I or Grade II, shall be in the form in 
Annexure II. 

8. Period of validity. — A licence granted under these rules shall be valid up<to 
the 31st December of the year in which it is granted: 

Provided that a licence issued between the 1st November and the 31st December 
of any year shall be valid up to the 31st December of the following year. 

9. Fee. — A fee of Rs. 15/- shall be payable for a licence in Grade I and of Rs. 10/- 
for a licence in Grade II. The fee shall be paid to the Central Government on 
receipt of instructions from that Government and in the manner directed by it. 

No holder of a licence shall be entitled to a refund of fees paid therefor on the ground 
of his inability to make full use of the license. 

10. Renewal of licence. — A licence may be renewed for one year at a time on 
payment of a fee of Rs, 15/- or Rs. 10/- as the rase may be. An application for 
renewal shall be made at least one month before the expiry of the licence and the 
fee shall be paid along with the application. It shall not be obligatory for the 
Central Government to send a notice to the licensee to pay the renewal fees. 

Provided that a licence in Grade II shall not be renewed if it has been in force 
for a total period of three years. 

11. Loss of licence. — In the event of loss of a licence, the licensee shall 
immediately send a report to the Central Government of the circumstances in which 
the licence was lost. 

12. Duplicate licence. — Where a licence is lost, a duplicate licence may be granted 
on payment of a fee of Rs. 5/-. 

13. Cancellation of licence. — A licence may be cancelled, if 

(1) the licence is lost on account of the negligence of the licensee, or 

(2) it has not been renewed, or the renewal fee not paid, within the prescribed 

time; 

Provided that, before cancelling a licence, the licencee shall be given an 
opportunity to make his objections. 

14. Licence when transferable. — A licence shall not be transferable; but the 
Central Government may permit the transfer of a Grade I licence granted to the 
Executive Officer of a Wireless Telegraph Amateur Club in favour of his successor, 
if such successor is eligible to hold a Grade I license. 



906 i'HE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER li, 1958/ASVINA 19, i8B0 [frjurr it 


15. Operation of Station. — No person other than the licensee shall operate an 
Amateur Wireless Telegraph Station: 

Provided that 

(a) in the presence of the licensee himself, the station may be operated by 

another licensee holding a valid grade I or grade II licence. 

(b) the amateur wireless telegraph station established by a person in his 

capacity as an executive of a amateur Wireless Telegraphy club may 
also be operated by a person holding a valid first, second or special class 
Radio Telegraph Operator’s Certificate and license or non-coromercial 
certificate of competency pr an Amateur Station Operator’s Certificate 
(Grade I) or an Amateur Station Operator’s Certificate (Grade II) with 
the prior permission of the Central Government In writing, in respect 
of every such person. 

16. Surrender of license. — A licence which Is cancelled or which has expired shall 
be surrendered to the Central Government. 

17. Only one licence to be granted. — No person shall be granted more than one 
licence at a time: 

Provided that the Central Government may relax this rule in the case of a person 
who is the Executive Officer of an amateur club and who is eligible to hold a 
licence in Grade I. 

18. Penalty for breach of these rules. — Any breach of these rules, other than a 
breach which is an offence under sections 20 or 21 of the Indian Telegraph Act, 
1883, shall be punishable with fine which may extend: 

(1) when the person is licensed under the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885, to one 
thousand rupees and In the case of a continuing breach a further fine 
of two hundred rupees for every day after the first during the whole 
or any part of which the breach continues; 

(li) when a servant of the person so licensed or another person Is punishable 
for the breach, to one fourth of the amounts specified In clause (i). 

Annexure I 

Application for a licence to establish, maintain and work an amateur wireless 

telegraph station. 

(See Rule 5) 


1. Name of applicant (In Block Capitals): 

Address: 

Age: 

Occupation: 

Nationality (evidence of nationality and two written references as to character 
should be enclosed). 

Father's name & home address: 


2. Scientific qualification (if any) of applicant, Particulars of any experience in 
working wlreles telegraph transmitting apparatus, 

Particulars of certificates of Competency as wireless operator held by applicant, 
Speed at which applicant can send and receive in the Morse Code. 

Particulars of Amateur License, if any, held by the applicant. 

Particulars of previous applications, if any, made by the applicant for Issue of 
Amateur Licence. 


3. Type of licence applied for:— 

Amateur wireless telegraph station licence (Grade I), 
Amateur Wireless telegraph station Licence (Grade II). 



L si 

i)J THE GA2ETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 11, 1958/AS VINA 10, 18*0 

907 

h” 

. Pr] 

L ticulars of apparatus to be used: — 



(a) Transmitting: — 

The trade name of the set in the case of a standard set bearing a recognised 
trade name, (Diagrams to be furnished and attached to this form). 

(b) Receiving: — 

(c) Antenna: — 

(including sketch & dimensions and means of support). 

S. (i) Power In watts to be used for transmission (A), 

(ii) .Maximum watts at input to aerial (if measured). 

(iii) Source of power supply (B). 


(a) Measured at input 

Volts Amperes. 

(b) D/C or A/C 

(c) Cycles per second (A/C) 

Volts Emperes 

(i) D/C or A/C 


(C) Cycles per second (A/C) 


(A) Power is measured at the input to the anode circuit of the final RF 
amplifier. 

(B) If batteries are used, state kind: 

(In the case of secondary cells, state capacity and maximum discharge rate. If 
a local generator is used, state maximum power available, voltage and type 
of current (AC/DC) and In the case of AC, state periodicity also. If com- 
mercial mains power source tyr>e employed, maximum power available, 
voltage and type of current (AC /DC) and in the case of AC, state periodicity 
also). 


6. Exact location of station: 


7. Frequencies it is desired to use. Transmitting Kc/s 

Kc/s 

Kc/s 

Receiving Kc/s 

Kc/s 

Kc/s 


8. Frequency range over which apparatus is 
capable of being adjusted, 


Transmitting 

Kc/s 

Kc/s 


Kc/s 

Receiving 

Kc/s 


Kc/s 


Kc/s 


9. Centre at which the applicant desires to be examined in his proficiency as Amateur 
Wireless Station Operator: 

(Grade I). 

(Grade II), 

BOMBAY/CALCUTTA/DELHI/MADRAS/NAGPUR. 


908 


j i GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 11, 1958/ASVINA 19. 1880 [Part II 


Declaration 

I undertake to observe the conditions of the licence and hereby certify that the 
apparatus herein described can and will be worked in accordance with the pro- 
visions of the Indian Wireless Telegraphy (Amateur Service) Rules, 1958. 

Signntme of Applicant 

Date 


Declaration to observe secrecy 

I ... do solemnly and sincctely declare that I will 

not, without authorisation, divulge to any person the purport of any message, 
other than a message intended for the general use of the public, which I may 
transmit or receive by means of any radio-telegraph or radio-telephone apparatus 
operated by me or which may come to my knowledge In connection with the 
operation of the said apparatus. 

Place Signature of Declarant 

Witness Date 

This app'ication, rvhen completed, should he forwarded to the Adviser, Wireless 
Planning & Coordination. Ministry of Transport and Communications, Govern- 
ment of India, New Delhi. 


Annexure II 

Licence No. Dated, New Delhi, the— — 

INDIAN TELEGRAPH ACT, 1885 

Licence to establish , maintain and work an Amateur Wireless Telegraph 

Station in India 

(See Rule 7) 

Shri of is hereby licensed to establish, 

maintain and work a wireless telegraph transmitting and receiving station In the 
Amateur Service as per details stated below. 

The license is granted under the authority of Section 4 of the Indian Telegraph 
Act, 1885. 

The license is governed by the Indian Wireless Telegraphy (Amateur Service) 
Rules, 1958. 

Particulars of the licence 

(i) Type of the licence granted In the Amateur Service 
(II) Location of the Station 
(lit) Authorised operators 
(lv) Call Sign 

Power Allotted bands for 
Amateur Service 

(Kc/s) Frequencies 

(Kc/s) 


Issued on behalf of the Central Government. 

Wireless Planning & Coordination, 
Minis!' v of Transpmt & Communications, 
(Departments of Commns. & Civ. Aviation) 


Instructions , — To establish, maintain or work an Amateur Station without a 
valid licence or the failure to comply with any conditions of the licence constitutes 
an offence under the Indian Tclegraoh Act, 1885. 

2 Prior ncrmlsslon nf the central Government should be obtained before the 
station Is established at a new address The licence should be sent to the Central 
Government for amendment of the address ip such ease. 


Designation of 
emission 
permitted 



3. Use of Supply Mains. — If power for the working of the wireless station is 
take* from a public electricity supply whether or not a battery eliminator Is used, 
no direct connection should be made between the supply mains and the aerial, 

4. This licence does not cover reception of broadcast programme. (Broadcast 
Receiving Licence of the appropriate category may be obtained.) 

5. Copyright. — This licence does not authorise the Licensee to do any act which 
is an Infringement of any copyright which may exist in the matter transmitted. 

6 Nothing contained herein shail be deemed to relieve the licensee of any 
responsibility for any infringement of patent rights which may be incurred by the 
use of the licensed apparatus. 

Conditions of the Amateur Wirfxess Telegrafh Station Licence 
(Grade I & Grade II) 

I. Radio-telegraph Conventions. — The licensee shall comply with the provisions 
of the International Telecommunication Convention in force relating to amateur 
Stations. 

II. Power and Frequencies.^ The power measured at the input to the anode 
circuit of final H.F. amplifier shall not exceed that specified against each band in 
the licence, The communications shall be sent only by the type of emission 
designated and on the frequency or frequencies within the bands specified in the 
licence. 

III. Frequency Control and Measurement. — The station shall be equipped for 
reception as well as transmission. The transmitting apparatus shall Invariably be 
tuned as accurately as possible to the particular authorized frequency on which 
it is proposed to send, and for this purpose there shall be kept at the station, and 
used whenever necessary (and on all occasions when the frequency used for send- 
ing is changed), a reliable instrument of an approved type for measuring the 
frequencies of the emissions from the station. The licensee shall take all practic- 
able steps to maintain the accuracy of such measuring instrument. 

IY Non-intarfcrence, — -The station shall be used in such a manner as not to 
cause interference with other stations outside the authorised bands. Sending shall 
at once be discontinued or postponed at the request of any Government or Com- 
mercial station 

when telegraphy is being used the arrangement employed for ’keying’ the 
sender shall be such as to reduce to a minimum the risk of interference due to 
key clicks being prod iced in neighbouring apparatus. Whenever for any reason, 
the carrier wave of the render ts being modulated by any system of modulation 
cure shall be taken to avoid evermndulation. Particular care must be taken to 
avoid unwanted frequency modulation of the carrier frequency. At all times 
every precaution shall b" taken lo prevent, the radiation of energy at frequencies 
other than those which nre necessary for the type of emission in use. The use 
o f spaik sending apparatus is specifically forbidden. 

V Sending Periods . — The station mav be operated at any time, provided that 
no period of sending shall exceed 10 consecutive minutes. Sending shall not 
commence without listening on the frequency which is to be used in order to 
asenefain, as far as possible, whether interference Is likely to be caused thereby 
to any othc- ■'la'i-'n which may be working. 

VI. Log. — A running record shall be kept in a bound book, of all transmissions 
(See condition II), in the following proforma; 

No gaps shall be left between entries In the log: — 

Date Time Type of Freq. From To Record of tests or Signature 
emission Experiments 



VII. Receiver. — The station shall always be equipped for the reception of signals 
sent on frequencies in current use at the station at any time by mean s of con- 
tinuous wave telegraphy, telephony and any other type of emission authorized in 
Condition II, 

VIII, (a) Messages. — Communications shall be sent only to stations which are 
actually cooperating in the Licensee’s experiments, They may be sent to such 
amateur station in this country and also in countries abroad (except where the 
Administration of a country has prohibited communications of this nature). Com- 
munication shall be in plain language and limited to messages of (I) a technical 
nature relating to tests and (ii) to remarks of a personal character for which, by 
reason of their unimportance recourse would not normally be made to the public 
telecommunication systems. Special gramophone records for reproducing modula- 
tions of other types of definite tones may be used for test purposes. Gramophone 
records may also be used on the condition that only one such record is used during 
the course of any day and the period of any transmission shall be limited as in 
condition (VI). 

(b) The use 6f the apparatus for sending false or misleading calls, or signals, 
news, advertisements, communications of business statements on topics of political 
or industrial controversy or any matter which is indecent or obscene or of a sedi- 
tious tendency or such as is likely to arouse racial, religious, or communal animo- 
sity. messages for pecuniary reward or anv messages for. or on behalf of, a third 
party is expressly forbidden. Messages like the reproduction of broadcast pro- 
grammes or transmissions of entertainment value shall not be sent over the 
licensed apparatus. 

(c) The Licensee shall not receive any payment (either direct or indirect) for 
the use of the station or allow the station to be controlled by or used for the pur- 
poses of any social or political organization. 

TX. Secrecy of Corresyondence. — If any message which the Licensee is not 
entitled to receive is, nevertheless, received the Licensee shall not make known 
nr allow to be made known Its contents, its origin or destination, Its existence or the 
fact of Its receipt to any person (other than a duly authorised Officer of the 
Central Government or a competent legal tribunal! and shall not reproduce in 
writing, copy or make any use of such message or allow the same to be reproduced 
In writing, copied or made use of. 

X. Call Signal— The prefix or nationality, 1 e. "VU” shall Invariably be included 
In the call sign which may be sent either morse telegraphy at a speed not greater 

than ( ) words per minute or telephonically if the station Is authorized 

to use telephony. 

The call signal shall be sent for Identification purpose at the beginning and at 
the end of each period of sending. 

In calling another station the all signal of that station shall be sent and may 
be reneated throughout a period of not more than one minute, after which the 
signal "TVK" shall be sent once and the call signal of the calling station three 
times. This procedure may be reneated but the time taken In calling shall not 
exceed three minutes without an interval during which the operator shall listen 
in the band of frequencies in which the call has been made. 

In answering s call the call signal of the calling station shall be sent, three 
times, the signal “DE” once and call signal of the answering station three times. 

The use of the general call “CQ" Is nemnitted. The word “test” fol' owed bv 
word ‘from’ of the nroredure signal “DE” and the call signal of the Licensee’s 
station mav he sent nut when essential for the Licensee’s experiments, but this 
method of calling shall not be continued in any case when a reply is not received 
from another experimental station within 15 minutes. 

When telephony Is used the letters of the call signals mav he confirmed by the 
Pronunciation n f well-known words of which the initial lettprs are the same bb 
those In the call signals but, words used, in this manner shall not be of facetious 
character nor be canahie of undesirable misinterpretation. 

XI. Inspection. — The station shall be rubiest to the enproval of the Central 
Government and together with the license end the record of transmissions shall 
he men to Inspection at nil times bv duly authorised officers of the Central Govern- 
ment who shall prove their Identity on request. . Record of transmissions, this 



Sec. 3(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 11, 19M/ASVINA 19, 18*0 9 x 1 


license, and any other data or information pertaining to the station shall be sent 
to tbe Central Government, whenever called upon to do so, 

XII. Aerial. — Aerial installations shall not cause hazard to flight of aircraft 
and their heights shall be within the limits specified in Annex 10 to the Conven- 
tion on International Civil Aviation published by the International Civil Aviation 
Organisation. If the Central Government so directs, the licensee of an amateur 
station shall install and maintain beacon lights on and paint the masts of the 
station. Tbe jobs shall be executed in ihe manner pi escribed by Govt, and at 
the cost of the licensee. An aerial which crosses above or Is liable to fall upon 
or to be blown on to an overhead power wire (including electric lighting and 
tramway wiiesl or power apparatus shall lie guarded to the reasonable satisfaction 
of the owner of the power wiie or power apparatus concerned. 

XIII. Control in Emergency , — (a) If and whenever in the opinion of the Central 
Government a situation shall have arisen in which it is expedient for the public 
service that the Central Government shall have control ov;r the sending of 
messages by means of the station, it shall be lawful for them to direct and cuuse 
the station to be taken possession of and 1o direct any duly authorized person to 
work the apparatus in any manner thought fit and to prevent the Licensee from 
using it and for these purposes cr any of them to cause any part of or all the 
apparatus forming the station to be removed to such place as they may think fit 
and any person authorized by them, may from time to time enter the premises at 
whiith the station is maintained for any such purpose as aforesaid. 

(b) The Licensee shall not lie entitled to any compensation in respect of the 
exercise by the Central Government of the powers conferred by this condition, 
which shall remain in force notwithstanding the withdrawal or modification of 
the license. 

XIV. (a) The Licensee shall not assign, under-let or otherwise dispose of or 
admit any person to participate in the benefits of this license. 

(HI The Licensee shall Indemnify the Central Government against all actions, 
claims and demands which may be brought or made by any person, body corporate 
or Company in respect of any Injury arising from any act licensed or permitted by 
this| license. 

Ifcj The Central Government may by notice in writing but without assigning 
a.nyi reason revoke and determine thPse presents or modify them at any time, 
either by specific notice in writing sent to the Licensee by registered letter post 
at the address given in the License, or by means of a general notice in the official 
gazxutle addressed to any or all holders of licenses for Amateur Wireless Stations. 

(d) In the event pf revocation or cancellation, no part of any fee paid in respect 
of the current year will be returned. 

XV. The decision of the Central Government in any matter relating to the 
license shall be final. 

ArPXNDTX I 

The examination for the Amateur Station Operator’s Certificate (Grade I) 
shall comprise in: — 

(51 ability to send and receive correctly by ear messages In plain language 
in the international morse code at 12 words per minute; 

(ill Knou'ledgp of radio theory and practiee; and 

<iill Knnv.'ledge of regulations applicable to radio communication and opera- 
tion of amateur stations. Knowledge of prevention of interference 
(articles 42 and 42 of the Atlantic Ci'v Radio Regulations and paras 
1 — IT of Section XXVt of Indian Wireless Instructions Vol. III. 

For the purpose of assessing the receiving ability of the applicant, the test 
examination will be made for five minutes at the prescribed speed and if th. 
applicant receives Ihe material iransmitted correctly for a continuous period o 
one minute during (he transmission, he shall be considered to be successful in th; 

twt- 

For tests as under item (ii) and (ill) above, a candidate may have to appea- 
far written and/or oral examination. 

A f**e of Rupees ten shall be charged for the purpose of this examination. 

A certificate shall be awarded to the successful candidate in the proforma showi 
in Appendix III. 



gli THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER II, I958/ASVINA 19, 1880 [PAkr If 


Appendix II 

The examination for the Amateur Elation Operator’s Certificate (Grade II) 
shall comprise In: — 

(i) ability to send and receive correctly by ear messages in plain language 
in the international morse code at five words per minute; 

(il) elementary knowledge of radio theory and practice; ana 

(ili) elementary knowledge of regulations applicable to radio communica- 
tion and operation of amateur stations. 

For the purpose of assessing the receiving ability of the applicant, the test 
examination will be made for live minutes at the prescribed speed and If the 
applicant receives the material transmitted correctly for a continuous period 
of one minute during the transmission, he shall be considered to be successful 
in the test. 

For tests as under Item (ii) and (Hi) above, a candidate may have to appear 
■ Cor written and/or oral examination. 

A fee of Rupees five shall be charged for the purpose of this examination. 

A certificate shall be awarded to the successful candidate in the proforma 
(.shown in Appendix III. 


Obverse 
Appendix III 


No. 


SEAL 


GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT & COMMUNICATIONS 

(Deptts. of Commns. & Civil Aviation) 

Amateur Station Operator’s Certificate * ( Gra de I) 

(Grade II) 

(Issued under the Indian Wireless Telegraphy Amateur Service Rules 1958). 

This Is to certify that Shrl has been examined 

and has qualified in sending and receiving in International Morse Code on tone 
signals at *twelve/five words per minute in clear English and has a ‘general/ 
elementary knowledge of operating procedure and the regulations regarding the 
prevention of harmful interference and ‘general /elementary knowledge of Radio 
Theory and Practice. 

It Is also certified that the holder has made a declaration that he will preserve 
the secrecy of correspondence. 

New Delhi; 

Hate: 

Signature: 

Designation; 

Wireless Planning & Coordination, 
Ministry of Transport & Communications, 
(Deptts. of Commns. & Civil Aviation). 

"(to be struck off whenever unnecessary) 

ENDORSEMENTS. 



Sfc. 3 n)l THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 11, 1958/ASVINA 19, 1880 913 

Reverse 

Valid up to 


Signature of holder . . 

Date of hirth 

Place of birth 


Declaration of Holder 

Age years 

Height Feet Inches 

Colour of eyes 

Colour of hair 

Complexion 

Any special peculiarities or marks 

This Certificate does not constitute a licence to establish, maintain or work 
a radio station; for that purpose a licence must be obtained from the Ministry 
of Transport & Communications, New Delhi. 


This Certificate may be endorsed, suspended or cancelled at the discretion of 
tVi'- Central Government, if the holder commits a breach of the Indian Wireless 
Telegraphy (Amateur Service) Rules, 195B, or any regulation lawfully applicable 
to him Tin respect, of radio-communication or radio-telegraphy or radio-telephone 
apparatus. 


This Certificate should be carefully preserved. In case of loss through gross 
carelessness, the Central Government may withhold the issue of duplicate copy 
thereof. In other cases, the Central Government may issue duplicate copies Qn 
payment of prescribed fees. 


Any person other than the owner thereof becoming possessed of this Certificate 
Is requested to send it to the Adviser, Wireless Planning 5c Co-ordination, Ministry 
of Transport and Communications, New Delhi. 


[No. WL-l(73)/rj4.] 
T. R. MANTON, Dy, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF WORK HOUSING AND SUPPLY 

New Delhi, the 1st October 1958 

G.S.R 940.— Tn exercise of the powers conferred by section 31 of the Petroleum 
Act, 1934 (30 cf 1934i, the Central Government hereby makes the following amend- 
ment In the notification of the Government or India in the late Ministry of Work*, 
PrdiuTiun and Supply No. P. 104, dated the 4th May, 1950, namely: — 

In the said notification— 

for the words, figures and brackets “The Assam Municipal Act, 1923 (Assam 
Act I of 1923 1", the following shall be substituted, namely: 

“The Assam Municipal Act, 195fi (Assam Act XV of 1957)”, 


[No. S&P. 11-3(13)/ 58.] 
M, N. KALE, Under Secy. 



9!4 THE GAZETTE Or INDIA: OCTOBER. II, 1958/ASVINA 19, 18M [Part II 


(Central Boiler* Board) 

G.S.R. 941. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 28 of the Indian 
Boilers Act, 1923 (5 of 1923) the Central Boilers Board hereby makes the follow- 
ing further amendment in the Indian Boilers Regulations, 1950, the same having 
been previously published as required by sub-section (i) of section 31 of the Act, 
namely: — 

In the said Regulations, in the list of well-known Steel-Makers In Appendix ‘G’ 
the following shall be added at the end, namely: 

“24. Messrs. Bethlehem Steel Company, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, U.S.A.”. 

[No. S8tP.il/BL-21 (0) /57] 
M. N. KALE, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 30th Sepetmber 1958 

G.S.K. 942.'- The following draft of a further amendment to the Industrial 
Disputes (Contra!) Rules, 1957, which the Central Government proposes to make 
in exercise of the powers conferred by section 38 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947 (14 of 1947), is published as required by sub-section (1) of the said section 
for information of persons likely to be affected thereby; and notice is hereby 
given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 30th 
October 1958, 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Centra l Government. 


Draft amendments 


In the said rules — 

(i) in rule 7, for the words "in triplicate to the Secretary the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Labour” the following shall be substituted, namely — • 

“to the Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour 
(in triplicate)”. 

(ii) for clause (b) of rule 8, the following shall be substituted, namely — 

‘‘(b) in the case of workmen, by any office bearer of a trade union of the 
worknien or by five representatives of the workmen duly authorised 
in this behalf at a meeting of the workmen held for the purpose. 

Explanation. — In this rule “office bearer” means any of t.he following office 
bearers, namely — - 

(a) the President; 

(b) the Vice-President; 

(c) the Secretary (including the General Secretary); 

( d ) a Joint Secretary; 

(e) an Assistant Secretary; 

(f) a group Secretary; 

(g) any other office bearer of the trade union authorised in this behalf 

bv the President or General Secretary of the Union." 

[No. L.R.L 1 (041/58.] 


A. P. VEERA RAGHAVAN, Under Secy. 





PLANNING COMMISSION 
(Programme Evaluation Organisation) 

New Delhi, the 4th October 1958 

G.S.R. 943.— In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules regulating the 
method of recruitment to the posts of Deputy Investigators, Computors, Tabulation 
Clerks and Clerks (non-lncluded in C.S.C.S.) in the Programme Evaluation 
Organisation (Planning Commission) namely: — - 

1. These rules may be called the Programme Evaluation Organisation (Planning 
Commission) (Non-Secretariat Posts) Recruitment Rules. 1958. 

2. Recruitment to Class III posts (Deputy Investigators, Computers, Tabulation 

Clerks and Clerks) in the Programme Evaluation Organisation (Planning Com- 
mission! shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the schedule 
annexed hereto, 1 | 



Recruitment Rules for the Posts of Deputy Investigators , Computors and Tabulation Clerks 


Name of posts 


No, of Classification Scale of pay Whether Age limit for 
posts Selection direct recruits 

post or 
nun-selec- 
tion posts 


3 4 5 


6 


Post at Headquarters : 

Below 25 years 
“rclaxable” in 
favour of Sche- 
duled Castes, 
Scheduled Tri- 
bes, displaced 
persons and 
other special 
categories in 
accordance with 
the general or- 
ders issued 
from time to 
lime by the 
Govt, ol India. 


Computors . . 2 Do. Rs. 60-4-120- . . Do. 

EB-j-150. 


*Tabulal ion Clerks . 20 Do. Rs. 60-3-81- .. Do. 

ItB-4-125- 

5-130, 


Posts in the Sub-ordinate Offices. 

Clerks . 41 Class III (Non- Do. . . Do. 

Gazetted) Mi- 
nisterial 


Deputy Investigators 


17 Class III (Non- Rs. 80-5-120- Non-se- 
Gazettcd) ‘Non- EB-8-200- lcclion 

Ministerial’ 10/2-220 post 


‘■These posts will be outside the C.S.C.S. Scheme. 



Se'„ S(i 


S(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 1 1, 1958/ASVINA 19, 1880 917 


in ike Programme Evaluation Organisation (Planning Commission) 


Educational and other Whether age Period of 
■qualifications required and educational probation 
qualifications if any 
✓ prescribed for 
direct recruits 
will apply in 
case of promo- 
tees 


Method of In case of recll. Il'aD.P. 
reett. whether by promotion/ C. exists, 
by direct reett. transfer, grades what is its 
or by promo- from which composi- 
tion or transfer promotion to tion 
& percentage be made 
of the vacancies 
to be filled by 
various 
methods. 


7 


8 


9 


10 


il 12 


(i) At least Second Class 
Bachelors degree with 
Economics, Agri. Econo- 
mical Economic Geogra- 
phy,P>ociology. Anthro- 
pology. Social Psycho- 
logy, Social Work or Poli- 
tics. 


Will not apply 
in the case of 
permanent 
quasi-perma- 
nent employees. 


One year 25% by pro- 
for direct motion, 7y% 
recruits, by direct re- 
cruitment 
through the 
Employment 
Exchange. 


Computors, Class III 
Tabulation D.P.C. 
Clerks and 
Clerks work- 
ing in Units 
under this 
Organisation. 


(H) Good knowledge 
(ability 1 o read, write and 
speak) of a Regional 
language. 


Desirable : 




(i) Experience in tabu- 
lation of datas. 




Atf least Second Class 
Matriculate with profi- 
ciency in the use of cal- 
culating machines. 

Not Applicable. 

Do. 

Direct recruit- 
ment through 
Employment 
Exchange. 

At least Second Class 
Matriculate. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 


Nil 


Do. 


Desirable : 


Bachelors’ degree with 
Economics, Agri. Econo- 
mics, Economic Geogra- 
phy, Sociology, Anthropo- 
logy, Social Psychology, 
Social Work or Politics. 


Do. 


Do- 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do, 


[No. PEO(A)/15(119)/57.J 
G. C. JERATH, Under Secy, 



918 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 11, 1958/ASVINA 19, 1880 [Part II 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 

New Delhi, the 3 0th September 1958 

G.S.R. 944, — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules regulating the 
recruitment of persons to the post of Research Assistant (Senior) in the General 
Central Service, Class II in the Ministry of Education namely: 

1. Short title, — These rules may be called the Ministry of Education [Research 
Assistant (Senior)] Rules, 1958. 

2. Method of recruitment. — Recruitment to the post of Research Assistant 
(Senior) In the General Central Service (Class II) in the Ministry of Education 
shall be made In accordance with the provisions contained in the Schedule hereto 
annexed. 


Schedule 

Recruitment Rules for the Post of Research Assistant ( Senior ) in the Ministry of Education 


Name of post No. o t Classification Scale of Whether Age limit Educational and 
posts. pay selection for direct other qualrfi- 

post or recruits. cations requir- 
non-selec- ed. 

lion post. 


I 2345 


6 7 


Research Assis- I General Cen- Rs. 250 - Non selec- Not ap- Not applicable, 
tant (Senior) tral Service, 10300 - tion. plicable, 

Class 11 IvB- 15 - 

(Non-gaze- 450 - 25/2 

tted) (Non- 500 . 

Ministerial). 




Sec. 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER II, 1M8/ASVINA 19. 1880 


9I9 1 


Whether age 
and educational 
qualifications 
prescribed for 
the direct re- 
cruits will apply 
in the case of 
pomotees. 


Period of Method of 

probation, recruitment 
if any. whether by 

direct recruit- 
ment or by 
promotion or 
transfer & 
percentage of 
the vacancies 
to be filled by 
various methods. 


In case of re- 
cruitment by 
promorion/trans- 
fer, grades from 
which promo- 
tion to be made. 


If a Departmental Circumstances 
Promotion Com- in which Union 
mittee exists, Public Service 
what is its com- Commission is 
position. to be consulted 
in making re- 
cruitment. 


8 9 to 


II 


12 


13 


Not applicable. Not appli- By promotion. (i) Technical/ 
cable. Statistical 

Assistants 
(Ordinary 
Grade) and 


(ii) Research 
Assistant 
(Junior). 


Ad-hoc Class II Not applicable. 
Departmental 
Promotion 
Committee. 


[No. 14-88/57-A2J 
M. C. MINOCHA, Under Secy. 




•920 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 11, 1958/ASV1NA 19, 1880 [Part II 

ERRATA 

In the Ministry of Education, Notifications No. 14-23/58-A-2, dated 9th August, 
1958 and No. 14-38/58-A-2, dated 20th August, 1958, published in the Gazette o f 
India, Part II — Section 3(i), dated 23rd August, 1958 and 30th August, 1958 as 
G.S. Rs. 720 and 754 respectively, the following corrections are to be made: — 

G. S. R. 726, 

Page 676 — last line— 

for “Files 1959'’ read “Rules 1958’’, 

Page 677, item 7 of the Schedule — 

delete "?” after the word recruits, and for “T, S.’’ after ‘S. C.’ and before 
‘displaced’ read “S. T”, 


G. S. R. 754, 

Page 689, Sub-para (3), third line from bottom — - 

for “qualification” read “qualifications”. 

Page 691, Column 7, Note — at the bottom of the column- 

insert “psychology with degree or diploma in education of a recognised’’ 
after the word ‘or’ and before the word ‘University’. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 1th October 1958 

G.S.R. 945. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 8 of the- Cinemato- 
graph Act, 1952 (37 of 1952), the Central Government heieby makes the following 
rules, namely: — 

THE CINEMATOGRAPH (CENSORSHIP) RULES, 1958 

1. Short title and commencement. — (1 ) These rules may be called the Cinemato- 
graph (Censorship) Rules, 1958. 

(2) They shall come into force on the 14th day of October, 1958. 

2. Definitions. — In these lules, unless the context otherwise rqulres,— 

(i) ‘Act’ means the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (37 of 1952); 

(ii) ’Advisory Panel’ means the Advisory Pane] of the Board constituted 

under rule 8; 

(iii) ‘Applicant’ means a person applying for a film to be certified for 

public exhibition; 

(iv) ‘Assistant Regional Officer’ means an Assistant Regional Officer 

appointed under rule 10 and includes the Secretary to the Chairman; 

(v) ‘Board’ means the Board of Film Censors constituted under section 3 

ol the Act: 

(vi) ‘Bombay film’ means any film other than a Calcutta or Madras film; 

(vii) ‘Calcutta film’ means a film imported from abroad into, or produced 
in, the States of West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa or Assam or the Union 
territory of Manipur or Tripura or the Andaman and Nicobar Islands; 

(viii) ‘Chairman’ means thei Chairman of the Board; 

fix) ‘Madras film’ means a film imported from abroad into, or produced 
in, the States of Madras, Andhra Pradesh, Mysore or Kerala or the 
State of Pondicherry or the Union territory of Laccadive, Minicoy 
and Amindivl Islands; 

■(x) ‘Regional Officer’ means the Regional Officer appointed under rule 10, 
and includes an Additional Regional Officer appointed under that 
rule; 

(xi) ‘Schedule’ means the Schedule to these rules. 



3. Constitution of the Board. — The Board of Film Censors constituted under 
section 3 of the Act shall be known as the. Central Board of Film Censors, and 
shall consist of a Chairman and six other members to be appointed by the Central 
Government. 


4. Terms of Office. — (1) A member of the Board shall hold office during the 
pleasure of the Central Government. 

(2) Subject to the provisions of sub-rule (1), every smeh member shall hold 
office for a term of three years: 

Provided that an.v person holding office as a member of the Board Immediately 
before the commencement of these rules shall hold such office, only for the 
remainder of the term for which he was appointed. 

(3) A retiring member or a member whose term of office has expired by tfflux 
of time shall be eligible for re-appointment, 

5. Casual vacancy. — A casual vacancy caused in the Board by resignation, 
death or removal of a member, or otherwise, shall be filled by the appointment 
of another member who shall hold office for the remainder of the term of the 
member in whose place he is appointed. 


6. Headquarters, — Unless otherwise directed by the Central Government, the 
headquarters of the Board shall be at Bombay. 

7. Temporary absence of Chairman.— Nol withstanding anything contained in 
these rules, during the absence of the Chairman from the city of Bombay or 
whenever the Chairman is temporarily unable to exercise his powers or perform 
his duties under these rules owing to illness or any other cause the Central Gov- 
ernment may appoint another person to be the Chairman: 

Provided that where no such appointment is made, the Regional Officer at 
Bombay, shall, in addition to his other duties, exercise the powers and perform 
the duties oi the Chairman, and shall have the right to participate in meetings 
of the Board, hut shall not be entitled to preside at any such meetings. 

8. Constitution of Advisory Panels. — (11 The Central Government shall 
constitute an Advisory Panel at each of the towns of Bombay, Calcutta and Madras 
and at Such other places as the Centra) Government may consider necessary. 

(2 ) An Advisory Panel constituted under sub-rule ( 1 ) shall consist of such 
number of members as the Central Government may, after consultation with the 
Board, determine. 

(li) The Central Government may, after consultation with the Board, appoint 
any person whom It thinks fit to be a member of an Advisory Panel: 

Provided that the Central Government may dispense with such consultation 
in respect of such number of members not exceeding one-third of the total number 
of the members of the Advisory Panel, as that Government thinks fit. 

9. Term of Office of Members of Advisory Panels, — (1) A member of an 
Advisory Panel shall hold office during the pleasure of the Central Government. 

(2) Subject to the provisions of sub-rule (1), every such member shall hold 
office for a term of two years: 

Provided that any person holding office as a member immediately before the 
commencement of these rules shall hold such office only for the remainder of 
the term for which he was appointed. 

(3) A retiring member or a member whose term of office has expired by efflux 
Of time shall be .eligible for re-appointment. 

(4) A casual vacancy In an Advisory Pant caused by the resignation, death 
or removal of any member or otherwise shall be filled by fresh appointment, and 
the person so appointed shall hold office only for the remainder of the term for 
which the member whose place he takes was appointed. 

(5) The Central Government may remove from office any member of an 
Advisory Panel before the expiration of his term of office: 

Provided that a member appointed to an Advisory Panel after consultation 
with the Board shall not be so removed except on the recommendation of. or 
after consultation with, the Board, 



. CA E OF A. . 11, , /AsvIJN'A 19, L u . II 


10. Regional and Assistant Regional Officers etc. — (1) For the purpose of 
enabling the Board to perform Its functions under the Act, the Central Govern- 
ment may appoint Regional Officers, Additional Regional Officers, Assistant 
Regional Officers and such other office’-s, at Bombay, Calcutta, Madras and at 
any other place as the Central Government may consider necessary: 

Provided that lh" Central Government may delegate' to the Chairman 
subject, to such conditions and limitations if any, as may he specified by it, the 
power of appointment conferred on it under this sub-rule, other than the power 
of appointment jn relation to the posts of Regional Officers, Additional Regional 
Officers and Assistant Regional Officers: 

Provided further that the Chairman may grant leave to, or suspend, or remove 
from service, any officer appointed by him under the powers delegated to him 
under this sub-rule. 

(2) The Regional Officers. Assistant Regional Officers and other officers 
appointed under sub-rule (1) shall perform such duties as may be assigned to 
them by these rules or by the Board. 

11. Duties of the Board. — The Board shall, in addition to other duties prescribed 
under these* rules: — 

G) submit an antiual report to ihe Central Government reviewing the work 
done by the Board during the preceding financial year; 

(2) prescribe the manner in which the registers, records and accounts of the 
Board shall be kept, 

(3) review the work of Regional Officers and members of the Advisory Panels; 

14) issue directives to Regional Officers and members of the Advisory Panels 
regarding the principles to be observed in determining whether a film is or is not 
suitable for public exhibition or is notable for unrestricted public exhibition 
or for public exhibition restricted to adults. 

12. Assessment of public reactions to films, — With a view to determining the 
principles to be observed in certifying films, the Board may take such steps as 
it. thinks fit to assess public reactions to films. 

13. Remuneration of Chairman, and allowances payable to members of the 
Board and the Advisory Panels.- (l.i The Chairman shall receive such salary 
and allowances and shall be subject to such other conditions of service as are 
specified i l the terms of his appointment. 

12) Ev -y memtf of the Board other than the Chairman and every nun- 

official member of an Advisory Panel shall be paid such travelling allowances 

as the Central Government may, from time to time, determine, 

14. Meetings of the Board.- -(1) The Board shall ordinarily meet once a 

quarter for the transaction of business, hut the Chairman may at any time call 
as the Central Got eminent may, irom time to time, determine. 

(2) Meetings of the Board shall be held at such places as the Chairman in 

his discretion may fix for the purpose. 

15. Co opted Members. — The Chairman may co-opt any one or more of the 
Regional Officers as a member or as members of the Board for Ihe purpose of 
attending a particular meeting of the Board, and such officer or officers shall 
then be entitled to participate in the deliberations of the Board at that meeting 
but shall npf be entitled to vote. 

16. Notice of meeting. — (1) At least seven clear days’ notice of all meetings 
of the Board shall be given to each member, hut, an urgent meeting may be 
called by the Chairman at three clear days’ notice. 

(2) The notice shall state the business t.o he transacted at the meeting and no 
business other than that stated shall be Iransacled at such meeting except with 
the consent of the Chairman or on his motion, 

17. Business ordinarily to he transacted at meetings. — The business of the 
Board shall ordnarily be transacted at a meeting duly called in accordance with 
the provisons of these rules: 

Provided that the Chairman may, if he thinks fit. circulate any urgent matter 
among the members for their opinion. 



Sec. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 11. 1958/ASVINA 19, 1880 


923 


18. Quorum. — At every meeting of the Board three members if the Chairman 
be present, and five members if he be absent, shall from a quorum. 

19. President of the meeting:. — Meetings of the Board shall be presided over 
by the Chairman or, in his absence by a member elected by the members present 
from among themselves. 

20. Question to be decided by majority of votes. — Every question before the 
Board shall be decided by a majority of votes and in the case of equality of 
votes, the Chairman or the member elected to preside under rule 19, as the case 
may be, shall have a second or casting vote. 

21. Board etc. may function notwithstanding vacancies. — The Board or any 
Advisory Panel may exercise its functions notwithstanding any vacancy therein, 
and no act or proceeding of the Board or the Advisory Panel shall be called in 
question on the ground merely of the existence of any vacancy in the Board or 
the Advisory Panel, as the case may be. 

22. Application for examination of films. — (1) Every application to certify a 
film for public exhibition shall be made in writing in Form I or Form II set out in 
the Schedule according as the film is produced in, or imported into India. 

12) The application shall be addressed to the Board and delivered to the 
Regional Officer concerned according as the film is a Bombay film, Calcutta film 
or Madras film: 

Provided that where films are imported into India, the Chairman may direct 
or permit applications in respect of them to be delivered to a Regional Officer 
other than the Regional Officer to whom such applications would have been 
delivered but for this proviso: 

Provided further that the Chairman may in the following circumstances direct 
or permit applications in respect of any films or class of films to be delivered 
to a Regional Officer other than the Regional Officer to whom such applications 
would have been delivered but for this proviso, namely 

(i) where, a Bombay film is produced in any State other than the. State 
of Bombay, or 

(U) where the Chairman is satisfied that immediate action for examination 
of a film is necessary, or 

(iii) where . examination of a film with the assistance of persons well 
acquainted with the language of the film is not possible at the place 
where, but for the provisions of this proviso, it would have been 
delivered for examination. 


■<3) Every such application shall be accompanied by — 

(a) the fee prescribed under rule 37; 

(b) eight typed or printed copies of the synopsis of the film and of the 

full text of the songs, if any: 

Provided that where the film is in a language other than English or an 
Indian language, the applicant shall furnish eight typed or printed 
copies of the translation in English or Hindi of the synopsis and 
of the full text of the songs, if any; 

Provided further that in the case of a film referred to in the preceding 
proviso, the Regional Officer may direct the applicant to furnish also 
eight typed or printed copies of the translation in English or Hindi 
of the full text of the dialogues, speeches or commentary; 

(c) the original certificate or a duplicate certificate or. where the original 

certificate did not bear a triangle mark, a photostate C 9 py of the 
certificate if the application is made for the examination of the 
film as provided for in rule 28. 


(4) If in the case of a newsreel, documentary or other short film the Regional 
Officer is satisfied that the applicant is not able to furnish the documents specified 
in clause (b) of sub-rule (3). along with the application for reasons beyond hi-j 
control, the Regional Officer may direct that such documents may be fumishec 
within such period after the examination of the film as he may specify or that* 
•the submission of such documents may be dispensed with ‘ 


(5) No such application shall be 
those mentioned in clauses (b) and (c) 


accompanied by any documents ether than 
of sub-rule (3). 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 11, 1918/ASVINA 19, 1R80 [Parc II 


23. Examining Committee. — (1) On receipt of an application under rule 22 
the Regional Officer shall appoint an Examining Cmrunittee to examine the film. 
The examination shall be made at such place and at such time as the Regional 
Officer may determine arid at the expense of the applicant. 

(2) The Examining Committee shall consist of — 

(a) in the case of a newsreel, documentary short, or a cartoon or in the 

case of a film predominantly educational, a member of the Advisory 
Panel and the Regional Officer or Assistant Regional Officer; and 

(b) in the case of any other film, four members of the Advisory Panel 

and the Regional Officer or the Assistant Regional Officer; 

Provided that if the Regional Officer or Assistant Regional Officer is 
unavoidably absent at the examination of a film, the Examining 
Committee shall consist of two members of the Advisory Panel in a 
case falling under clause (a) and five members of the Advisory 
Panel in a case falling under clause (bj. 

(3i Immediately after the examination of the film, the opinion of the memhers 

of the Examining Committee attending the examination shall be recorded In 

duplicate by the Regional Officer or Assistant Regional Officer, or In the absence 
of both, by a member of the Committee appointed by the Regional Officer for 
this purpose stating, with regard to each member, whether he considers: 

(a) that the film Is or is not suitable for unrestricted public exhibition; or 

(b) that the film Is or is not suitable for public exhibition restricted tf> 

adults; or 

(c) that the film will bo suitable for unrestricted public exhibition, or 

public exhibition restricted to adults, as the case may be, it a 

specified portion or specified portions be deleted therefrom. 

(4) One copy of the record prepared under sub-rule (3) shall be sent by the- 
Regional Officer to the Chairman forthwith. 

24. Certification. — On receipt of the record referred to in rule 23, the Chairman 
shall, unless he proceeds under sub-rule (1) of rule 25, direct the Regional Officer 
concerned to certify the film on behalf of the Board as being suitable for 
unrestricted public exhibition or for public exhibition restricted to adults as the 
case may be; 

Provided that the Chairman may, with the previous approval of the Central 
Government, authorise any Regional Officer to certify without any such direction 
any class or kind of film after the Examining Committees huve examined and 
recommended such certification: 

Provided further that before certifying any film for public exhibition restricted 
to adults, the Chairman or as the case may be, the Regional Officer, shall give the 
applicant a reasonable opportunity of representing his case, 

25. Revising Committee. — (1) On receipt of the record referred to in rule 23, 
the Chairman may, of his own motion or on the request of the applicant, refer if 
to a Revising Committee constituted by him for the purpose, 

(2> The Revising Committee shah ordinarily ronsitt of the Chairman and, sub- 
ject to sub-i uie (51, all the resident members of the Advisory Panel of the place 
where the application under rule 22 was received; 

Provided that, subject to the quorum specified in sub-rule (101, the proceedings 
of the Committee shall not be questioned on the ground merely of tile absence 
of anv member or members of the Advisory Panel: 

Provided further that the Chairman mav, at his discretion, constitute, for the 
examination of anv specified film, a Sper : al Revising Committee consisting of the. 
Chairman and such number of members of tile Advisory Panel of the place when-.,, 
the application under rule 22 was received or of any other place as may be speci- 
fied by him. 

(3) The Chairman, if present, shah preside at every meeting of Ihc Revising 
Comm'ttee (inducting the Special Revising Committee). If he is unable to attend, 
a member of the Advisory Panel nominated by the Chairman tor the pu pom shall 
preside. 



Sec. S(i)] 


HE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 1J. ]'J58/A.SV1NA 19, 1880 


( 4 ' The Regional Officer may be invited to attend any meeting of a Revising 
Comnuuee (including a Special Revising' Committee) and participate in proceed- 
ings thereof but he shall have no right to vote thereat. 

(5) No member of the Advi-ory Panel who has been a member of the Examin- 
ing Committee for any film shall be a member of the Revising Committee or 
Special Revising Committee in rcpcct of the same film. 

(6) The Revising Committee or Special Revising Committee shall examine 
the film at such time and at such place as the Chan man may determine and, if 
the examination be at tiie request of the applicant, at the latter’s expense. 

(7) For the purpose of examination of the film by a Revising Committee or 
Special Revising Committee under sub-rule (6), the applicant may be required 
to furnish twenty-five typed o: printed copies of the synopsis of the film and of 
the full text of the songs, if any; 

Provided that in the ca 3 e of film in a language other than English or an. 
Indian language, the applicant shall furnish twenty-live typed or 
printed copies of the translation in English or Hindi of the synopsis 
and of the full text of songs, if any; 

Provided further that in the case of a film referred to in the preceding 
proviso, the Chairman may direct the applicant to furnish also twenty- 
live typed or printed copies of the translation in English or Hindi 
of the full text of the dialogues, speeches or commentary; 

Provided also that where the Chairman is satisfied that the applicant is 
not able 1o furnish the documents specified in this sub-rule for 
reasons beyond his control, the Chairman may direct that the sub- 
mission of such documents may be dispensed with. 

(8) Immediately after the examination of the film by the Revising Committee 
or the Special Revising Committee as the case may be, the opinion of the mem- 
bers attending the examinalion shall be recorded in duplicate stating with regard 
to each member of the particulars specified in sub-rule (3) of rule 23. 

(9) One clipy of the record prepared under sub-rule (8) shall be sent to the 
Chairman forthwith. 


(10) The quorum of a Revising Committee shall be half the membership of the 
Advisory Panel excluding the non-resident, members and the members who sat 
on the Examining Committee in respect of the same film, 

(11) The quorum for a Special Revising Committee shall be five. 

(12) The decision of a Revising Committee and a Speeia 1 Revising Committee 
shall be that of the majority of the members attending the examination of the 
film and, in the event of an equality of votes, the presiding officer shall have a 
second or ousting vote. 

(13) On receipt of the record under sub-rule (9), the Chairman shall issue 
or authorise the Regional Officer to issue a certificate in conformity with the 
decision of the Revising Commit) c ■ or the Special Revising Committee. 

2fi. Issue of certificate subject to removal of portions of Aim. — (1) Where the 
applicant i-: informed by a Regional Officer or the Chairman that a film will not 
be certified for unrestricted public exhibition or for public exhibition restricted 
to adults, as the case may be, uffiess a specified portion or portions thereof be 
removed from the film the Regional Officer may, with the approval of the 
Chairman, issue a certificate certifying the film for unrestricted public exhibition 
or for public exhibition restricted to adults, as the case may be, if he is satisfied 
on a declaration made in writing by the applicant that the portion or po Tons 
objected to have been deleted from the film and from all copies thereof in the 
applicant’s possession and surrendered to him The porition or portions of the 
film and oi all copies thereof so surrendered shall be preserved for a period 
of three months and thereafter destroyed; 

Provided that single excisions exceeding seventy-five feet in length shall be 
preserved for a period of six months before they are destroyed. 

Explanation .- — For the purpu-c of satisfying himself that the portion or por- 
tions objected to have been deleted, the Regional Officer or the Chairman may, 
at the expense of the applicant, himself examine the film, or cause it to be 



•926 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA: OCTOBER 11. 195S/ASVINA 19, 13S9 [Pskt II 


examined by one or more members of the Advisory Panel at such time and place 
as he may determine. 

(2) A certificate issued under sub-rule (1) shall be endorsed with a specifica- 
tion of the portion or portions required to be removed and a statement of the 
exact length of each part or parts removed, and shall bear a clearly visible 
triangle drawn at the left hand bottom corner of the certificate. 

(3) Where any film has been granted a certificate under this rule subject to 
the condition that a specified portion or portions thereof be removed from the 
film, any person who imports or otherwise acquires a copy of the film after the 
date of certificate aforesaid, shall surrender to the Board such portion or por- 
tions in any such copy. 

27. Deposit of a copy of certified film.— After the Regional Officer or the 
Chairman, as the case may be, has affixed his signature to the certificate granted 
under rule 24, 25 or 26 and prior to the delivery or despatch of the certifi- 
cate to the applicant, a copy of the film as certified by the Board in 35 millimetre 
or 16 millimetre or a shooting script thereof shall be deposited with the Eoard by 
the applicant at his own expense for the purpose of record: 

Provided that where the Chairman or Regional Officer is of opinion that the 
app'icant for reasons beyond his control is unable to deposit such copy or script 
prior to the delivery or despatch of the certificate, the Chairman or the Regional 
Officer may deliver" the certificate on the applicant’s giving an undertaking that 
he shall deposit the said copy or script within such time not exceeding a :::ty 
days as may he specified by the Chairman or Regional Officer. 

28. Validity of certificate. — (1) A certificate in respect of a film which is in 
force on the 1st day of March, 1958, or which is issued on or after that date 
shall remain valid for a period of ten years from the date of its issue. 

Provided that any certificate issued under the Cinematograph (Censorship) 
Rules, 1951, shall be valid for a period of ten years from the date on which it 
was so issued. 

(2) A fresh ccrtificale may be issued op an application made under rule 22 
for the examination of the film under rule 23, but the Regional Officer mey, with 
the prior approval of the Chairman. dispense with such examination. 

29. Certificate liable to cancellation by the Board— A certificate granted by 

the Board unde" these rules shall be granted subject to the condition that it shall 
be liable, to cancellation in the event of the film in respect of which the certificate 
■was granted being exhibited in a form other than the one in which it was certified. 

30. Seizure of the copy of a certified film. — (1) When a film certified under 
these rules is exhibited in a form other than the one in which it was certified 
by lire Board, it may be seized on the spot in pursuance of an order passed by 
the District Magistrate or any magistrate of the first class or sub-Divisional 
Magistrate empowered in this behalf by the District Magistrate. 

(2) The ropy of the film seized under sub-rule (1) may be cited in evidence 
against the exhibitor of the film in the proceedings against him for contraven 
ticn of the provisions of Part II of the Act. 

31 . Information and documents to be given to distributors with respect tr 
certified films as required under section 6A of the Act.— (1) Any person whr 
riclh’crs any certified film to any distributor or exhibitor shall notify in writing 
to the distributor or exhibitor, as the case may be, aR the particulars respecting 
the film mentioned in section 6A of the Act, together with such other particular: 
as may be specified on the obverse and the reverse of the certificate granted by 
the Board in respect of that film. 

Explanation — Delivery of a duplicate copy ol the certificate cr copy thereo 
duly attested to be a true copy a magistrate shall be deemed to be sufficient com- 
pjmnce with the provision of this rule. 

(2) The provision of sub-Tule (1) shall apply' in relation to an amendmen 
of a certificate in respect of a fi.m, as it applies in relation to the cerlificalt 

itself. 

32. Uiirertlflration of a film under section G. — Where in exercise of the power 

conferred by section 6 of the AM, the Central Government by notification, direct; 
that, a certified film shall be deemed to be an uncertified film in the whole o 


Sec. 8 |)] THE G AZJ^TE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 11. 1958/ASVINA 19, 1880 937 

India, the applicant and any other person or person to whom the rights in the 
film have passed, shall surrender the certificate and all copies of the duplicate 
certificate granted In respect of the film, to the Board within one month from 
the date of the notification: 

Provided that the Chairman may, at the written request of the applicant or 
any other person concerned, extend the said period. 

33. Re-examlnatlon of certified films. — (1) In the case of a film which has 

been certified for public exhibition, if a representation is received from any 
member of the Board or any of its Advisory Panels, the representation shall be 
considered by the Board as soon as convenient. Any representation received 
from a member of the public or from any association or group of individuals 
shall be examined by the Chairman and, if he considers it desirable, shall be 
laid before the Board for consideration. 

(2) Where the Board considers that the film should be re-examined or where 
the Central Government directs the Board to arrange for the re-examination of 
a certified film, the Chairman shall appoint a Reviewing Committee to re-examine 
the film, consisting of the Chairman and two members of the Board nominated 
by the Chairman: 

Provided that where two members of the Board are not readily available to 
serve on the Committee, the Chairman may, in place of one such member, nomi- 
nate a rtiember of an Advisory Panel to the Committee. 

(3) The place, date and time of such re-examination shall be determined by 
the Chairman. 

(4) The Chairman shall forward the opinion of the Committee to the Central 
Government who may pass such orders thereon as it deems fit. 

(5V The original applicant for the examination of the film or the person to 
whom the rights of ownership or distribution in the film have passed shall, on 
receiving written notice from or on publication of the notice in the Official Gazette, 
by the Chairman or the Central Government, as the casei may be, arrange to deliver 
a copy <f>f the certified film to the Regional Officer concerned within such time as 
may be specified in such notice for examination by the Reviewing Committee 
under sub-rule (2) or by the Central Government to enable it to arrive at a 
decision under sub-rule (4) or sections 5 and 6 of thei Act. 

(6) No order under sub-rule (4) or under section 5 or section 6 of the Act 
shall be made to the prejudice of the applicant unless he has had an opportunity 
of representing his case. 

34. Alteration of film after issue of certificate.— (1) When a film is altered by 
excision, addition, colouring or otherwise, after it has been certified under these 
rules, it shall not be exhibited unless the portion or portions excised, added 
coloured or otherwise altered, have been reported to the Board in Form fll in 
the Schedule and the Board have endorsed particular of the alteration or altera- 
tions on the certificate. 

Explanation I , — Reasonable wear and tear in the normal course of handling 
or projecting a film shall not be deemed to be an alternation of the film within ' 
the meaning of this sub-rule, 

Explanation II . — Any addition, deletion, alteration or replacement of back 
ground music in a film or a mere change in gauge shall not be deemed to be an 
alternation of the film within the meaning of this sub-rule unless the Chairman 
by general or special order otherwise directs. * 

(2) On receipt of the report referred to in sub-rule (I), the Regional Officer 
shall appoint an Examining Committee to examine, at the expense of the appli- 
cant, the reel or reels in which the portion or protions altered occur: 

Provided that the Examining Committee may, in its discretion, re-examine 
the entire film. 

Provided further that where a film is altered by excision only, it shall not 
ordinarily be necessary to appoint an Examining Committee unless the Regional 
Officer in any case otherwise directs. 


928 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OGTO L 11. 1958/ASV A 19, 1880 [Part II 


(3) The Examining Committee, appointed under sub-rule (2), shall consist 
of one member of the Advisory Panel and the Regional Officer or Assistant 
Regional Officer: 

Provided that where both the Regional Officer and the Assistant Regional 
Officer are unavoidably absent at the examination of the film or any reel there- 
of, the Examining Committee shall consist of two members of the Advisory Panel, 

35. Amendment of a certificate granted by the Board after notification under 
section 6 . — When a notification is published under the, powers conferred by 
section 8 of the Act, declaring that a film in respect of which a ‘U’ certificate has 
been granted shall be deemed to be film in respect of which an ‘A’ certificate 
has been granted, the person to whom the certificate has been granted or the 
person to whom the rights in the film have passed as the case may be, shall 
produce the certificate to the Board for amendment within a fortnight of the 
said publication. 

36. Certificates — (1) A certificate authorising the public exhibition of a film 
shall be in one of the Forms IV or V set out in the Schedule according as the 
authorisation is for unrestricted public exhibition or for public exhibition 
restricted to adults. 

(2) The certificate shall be signed for and on behalf of the Board by the 
Chairman or by a Regional Officer for the Chairman. 

(3) The prescribed mark of the Board shall be a film copy of the certificate, 
i e., a trailer certificate, not leas than 15 ft. or 8 ft. long, according as the film 
is In 35 mm or 16 mm, which shall be affixed to the film and always exhibited 
with It. 

(4) A certificate of a film predominantly educational shall be in Form VI. 

37. Fees— (1) A fee shall be charged for the examination of every film at 
the rates laid down in the following table: — 

Table of Fees 


Size of film Length of film Scale of fees 


35 millimetre. (a) 2,ooo feet or below 
(b) Exceeding 2,000 feet. 
16 millimetre. (a) 800 feet or below, 

(b) Exceeding 800 feet. 


Rs. 5 per feet or a fraction thereof. 

Rs. 40 per 1,000 feet or a fraction there o f 
Rs. 5 per 400 feet or a fraction thereof, 

Rs, 40 per 400 feet or a fraction thereof. 


Provided that where an applicant applies for a film being certified as pre- 
dominantly educational under sub-rule (4) of rule 36, the fee for its examination 
shall be charged at the rate of rupees five per 1,000 feet or 400 feet according 
as the film is in 35 mm or 16 mm, cr a fraction thereof, irrespective of the total 
length of the film: 

Provided further that if a film exceeding 2,000 feet or 800 . feet according 
as the film is in 35 mm or 16 mm in respect of which examination fee has been 
paid at the rates specified In the first proviso, Is, after examination, considered 
by the Board not to be suitable for being certified as predominantly educational, 
the applicant shall forthwith pay the balance of the examination fee that would 
have been payable in respect of the film but for the first proviso: 

Provided further that where an applicant falls to pay the balance of examina- 
tion fee under the second proviso, he shall not be granted a certificate, in respect 
of that film under rule 24, rule 25 or rule 26, a 9 the case may be. 

(2) Fees charged for the examination of a film for a fresh certificate 
referred to in sub-rule (2) of rule 28 shall be half of the rates laid down in 
sub-rule (1): 

Provided that where the fresh certificate is granted without examination of 
the film under sub-rule (2) of rule -28, the fees charged shall be one-tenth of the 
fees charged for the examination of a film under this sub-rule, 

(31 A fee of rupee one shall be charged for a duplicate or a subsequent 
•'opy of the certificate. 



9»9 


Sic. S(i)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER II. 19S8/ASV1NA 19, 1880 


(4) The Central Government may require the applicant preferring ah appeal 
under sub-section (1) of section 5 cf the Act, to bear the cost of the transport 
and examination of the film in respect of which the appeal has been preferred. 

(5) The Board may remit in whole or in part the fee for examination of a 
film in the event of the application for a certificate being withdrawn before the 
film is examined. 

Explanation I . — When the entire film is re-examined under rule 34, the 
examination fee chargeable shall bei calculated with reference only to the reel 
or reels ih which portion or portions excised, added, coloured or otherwise altered 
occur. 


Explanation II .— No fee shall be chargeable for any endorsement made by the 
Board on a certificate in respect of the alteration of a film under rule 34 in cases 
in which the necessity for appointment of an Examining Committee is dispensed 
with under the second proviso to sub-rule (2) of the said rule, 

38. Power of entry,. — The Chairman, or any member of the Board or an 
Advisory Panel or a Regional or an Assistant Regional Officer or any other officer 
or member of the staff of the Board authorised in writing by the Chairman in 
this behalf may enter any place licensed under the law in force relating to 
cinemas, in the discharge of his duties under the Act, cr these rules. 

39. Advertisement of films. — Any person advertising a film certified for public 
exhibition restricted to adults or the exhibition of such film by means of Insertions 
In nowspapers, hoardings, posters, or hand bills shall, after the date of its certifi- 
cation, indicate in such insertions in newspapers, hoardings, posters or handbills 
that the film has been certified for public exhibition restricted to adults only. 


40. Maintenance of Register. — (1) The Board shall maintain a register in 
which shall be entered — 

(a) the name of every film examined under the Act; 

(b) the name of the person applying for a certificate; 

(c) the name of the person or company producing or releasing the film; 

(dj the name of the country In which the film was originally produced; 

(e) the name of the place where the film was examined; 

(f) the date of the examination; 

(g) the names of the persons who examined the film; 

(h) the result of the examination and of any further proceedings thereon; 

fi) the number and date cf the certificate Issued, If any, together with a copy 
of any endorsement made thereon. 


(2) FOr the purpose of enabling the Board to maintain such a register, the 
Regional Officers at Bombay, Calcutta and Madras shall each maintain similar 
registers in respect of applicatlcns for certification made to them and send to the 
Board a duplicate copy of every entry made in it, as soon as may be, after it has 
been made. 


(3) A copy of the entries in the refits ter maintained by the Board made during 
any month shall be sent to the Regional Officers at Bombay, Calcutta and Madras 
during the next following month. 


41. Certain films to continue to remain uncertified films. — If a film has been 
declared by a notification issued before the 15th January, 1951, by any State 
Government to be an uncertified film In any part or parts of the State concerned 
and if the said notification has not ceased to be in force by virtue of the proviso 
to sub-rule (2) of rule 35 of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1951, the film 
shall not be publicly exhibited unless it is certified for public exhibition in 
accordance with the provisions of these rules: 


Provided that before certifying any such film for public exhibition the Board 
shall obtain the prior approval of the Central Government, 

42. Repeal. — The Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1951, are hereby repealed. 



930 ' GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 11, 1958/ASVINA 19, 1880 [Part II 

Schedule 
FORM I 

Form of application for certification for public exhibition of a film produced in 
India. 


[See sub-rule (1) of rule 22] 

No, and date of application (to be entered by Board’s office). 

To 


The Central Beard of Film Censors through the Regional Officer at Bombay/ 
Calcutta/Madras*. 

Application for certification for public exhibition of a film produced in India 

at 

(1) (a) Name of the film. 

(b) Language of the film, 

(c) Length of the film in feet. 

(d) Number of reels. 

(e) Gauge of the film. 

(f) Type of the film, i.e., whether it is 2-D, 3-D, Cinemascope, Vistavision etc. 

.(g) Whether the film is silent or a talkie. 

(h) Colour of the film. 

(i) Name and address of the producer. 

(2) State whether the film is a *Newsreel/Documentary/Scientifle/Educational/ 
Feature film. 

(3) State separately the number of negative and positive prints of the film, 

(a) Produced — (Negative Positive ), 

(b) In the applicant’s possession (Negative Positive .. ). 

(4) In what other language/languages, if any, has this film been produced or 
dubbed? Where the title is net the same in each language, state the title of- each 
version of the film. 


5. Has any previous application been made to certify this film as suitable for 
public exhibition in India? 


If so, 

(a) Where and to whom was it made? 

(b) What was the result of the application? 

*(i) tt A "U”/An “A” certificate No dated was granted 

■"subject to the following cuts 

(ii) Certificate was refused, 

6. Has the exhibition of this film been at any time suspended or the film 
declared uncertified by the Central or any State Government? State particulars. 


♦Score cut the word or words which are not applicable. 



Sec. S(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 11. 1958/ASVINA 19, 1880 931 

7. Dees the film contain any dialogue, song, poem, speech or commentary in 
any language other than English or an Indian language? 

If so, specify the reel or reels in which the dialogue, song, poem, speech or 
commentary occurs, and the language or languages used. 

8 . Amount of fee accompanying the application on account of the fee prescribed 
in rule 37. 

3. Name, address and telephone number, if any, of the applicant. 

10. I declare that the statements above recorded are true in every particular. 

Date Signature of applicant. 


FORM II 

Form of application for certification for public exhibition of a film imported into 

India. 

[See Sub-rule (1) of rule 22] 

No. and date of application (to be entered by Board’s office). 

To 

The Central Board cf Film Censors, through the Regional Officer at Bombay/ 
Calcutta/Madras.* 

Application for certification for public exhibition of a film first imported into 
India at 

(1) (a) Name of the film, 

(b) Language of the film. 

(c) Length of the film in feet. 

(d) Number of reels. 

(e) Gauge of the film. 

(f) Tyhe of film t.e., whether it is 2-D, 3-D Cinemascope, Vistavision etc. 

(g) Whether the film is silent cr a talkie. 

(h) Colour cf the film. 

(i) Name of the producer. 

(1) Country in which produced. 

(2) State whether the film is a *Newsree1 /Documentary/ Scientlflc/Educational/ 
Feature film. 

(3) State separately, the number of negative and positive prints of the film: 

(a) imported by the applicant (Negative .... Positive....). 

(b) in the applicant's possession (Negative . ... Positive ). 

(4) In what Indian language/languages, if any, has this film been produced/ 

dubbed? 

Where the title is not the same in each language, state the title of each version 
in which it has been produced or dubbed. 

5. Hap any previous application been made to certify this film (under Its 
present or an?i other title) In 

(a) India 

(b) United States of America; 

(c) United Kingdom; 

(d) any other country; 

If so, 

(1) where and to whom was it made? 

(li) what was the result of the application l.e. 



932 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 11 . 1958/ASVINA 19, 1880 [Part II 


* (i) *A “U”/An "A” certificate No 

dated was granted ’’'subject to the following cuts — 


(ii) Certificate was refused 


In the case oi E film made in the United States of America, state the rating 

t? I * * * 5 nlm according to (a) the Rational Groups aruj (b) the League 
oi Decency, 

(a) (b) 


0. Has exhibition of this film been, at any time, suspended or the film declared 
uncertified by the Central or any State Government? 


State particulars : 

7 Does the film contain any dialogue, song, poem, speech or commentary In 
any language other than English or any Indian language? 

If so, specify the reel or reels in which the dialogue, song, poem, speech or 
commentary occurs and the language or languages used, 

8. Amount of fee accompanying the application on account of the fee prescribed 
In rule 37, 


9. Name, address and telephone number, if any, of the applicant. 

10. (a) Name, address and telephone number, if any, of the importer of the 

film 

(b) Number and date of the import licence 

(c) Date of clearance through the customs 

11. I declare that the film is predominantly an educational film and request 
that a certificate be issued to that effect to enable the applicant to obtain exemp- 
tion from customs duty. 


12, I declare that the statements above recorded are true In every particular. 

Signature of applicant. 


Date. 

‘Score out the word or words which arc not applicable. 


FORM III 
(See rule 34) 


(To be submitted in duplicate) 

Report under rule 34 of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1958 regarding 
an alteration _or alterations in a certified film. 

1. Name of the applicant: 

2. Name of the film: 

3. Certificate No. dated 

4. Particulars of alterations: 

(Specify the exact alteration or alterations, length and the number of the 
reel or reels in which the alteration or alterations occurs or occur.) 

To 


The Chairman, Central Board of Film Censors, through the Regional Officer, 
at Bombay/Calcutta/Madras*. 

I declare that the above particulars are true in every respect and are a full 
description of the alteration or alterations made In the film after its certification. 

Signature of the applicant. 

Date: 


Address: 


‘Score out the word or words which are not applicable. 



Sec. 3(f 


Lj 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER II. I958/ASVINA 19, 1880 


933 


FORM IV 

[See sub-rule (1) of rule 36] 

GOVERNMENT OP INDIA 



CENTRAL BOARD OF FILM CENSORS 

This is to CERTIFY that the film entitled 

has been passed for UNRESTRICTED public exhibition within the territories of 
India to which the Cinematograph Act, 1952 extends. 

Applicant 
Produced by 
Languages of the Film 
Gauge of the Film 

‘Length of the Film ft. REELS. 

No. of Certificate 

Chairman, 

Central Board of Film Censors. 

Dated the 195 . 

‘In the event of a copy of the film being prepared in a gauge other than that 
mentioned in the certificate, the certified length shall be deemed to be the corres- 
ponding length appropriate to that gauge. 

FORM V 

[See sub-rule (1) of rule 36] 

GOVERNMENT or INDIA 

9 


CENTRAL BOARD OF FILM CENSORS 

This is to CERTIFY that the film entitled 

has been passed for public exhibition restricted 

to ADULTS within the territories of India to which the Cinematograph Act, 1952 
extends. 

Applicant 
Produced by 
♦Language of the Film 
Gauge of the Film 

‘Lenglh of the Film ft REELS. 

No. of certificate 

Chairman, 

Central Board of Film Censors, 

'Dated the 195 

■'In the event of a copy of the film being prepared in a gauge other h n (hr* 
mentioned in the certificate, the certified length shall be deemed to be the corres- 
ponding length appropriate to that gauge, 



934 TH£ GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 11. 19S8/ASVINA 19. 1880 [Part II 

FORM VI 

Certificate of a film predominantly educational 
[See sub-rule (4) of rule 38] 

Government op India 





CENTRAL BOARD OF FILM CENSORS 

Certificate No of 195 

Thia is to certify that the parcel containing the following films was delivered to 

Shri Regional Officer/ Assistant Regional Officer, 

Central Board of Film Censors at Bombay/Calcutta/Madras who examined the 
seals and 'Identified the films according to the particulars verified at the time of 
the customs examination, and that the Board is satisfied that the films are of a 
predominantly educational nature and comply with the requirements for exemp- 
tion from customs duty. 

Name of film Name of Producer Length of Film 

3 . 

2 . 

3. 

Name of Importei 

(Signature of Regional Officer/ 
Assistant Regional Officer.) 

Date. 

[No* 5/6/58-FC.] 
D. R. KHANNA, Under Secy. 


PRINTED IN INDIA m I HE GENERAL MANAGER. GOVT. OF INDIA PRESS. 
MEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED UY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1958 



