foto ni 


RBOISTERED NO DI 


भारतराजपत्र 
The Gazette of Media 


1617 


- - = 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


= 


= 


- - - 


= 


= 


= 


= 


प्राधिकार से प्रकाशित 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY , 

G 
# 171 

farett, faiz , TÍ H 22, 1972/a prima 2 , 814 
No . 17] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, APRIL 22 , 1972 /VAISAKHA 2 , 1894 

- - - - - - - - - 
इस भाग में भिन्न पष्ठ सख्या दी जाती है जिससे कि यह अलग सकलन के रूप में रवा पा सके । 
Separato paging is given to this part in order that it may be filled as a separate compilation 
- - - - - - - - - 

417 II -- 0033- - 39 405 ( ii ) 

PART 11 – Section 3– Sub-section (IN 
(रक्षा मंत्रालय को छोड़कर ) भारत सरकार के मंत्रालयों और ( संघ क्षेत्र प्रशासन को छोड़कर ) 

केन्द्रीय प्राधिकरणों द्वारा जारी किये गए विधिक प्रादेश और अधिसूचनाएं । 
Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Government of India 
( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central Authorities ( other than the 

Administration of Union Territories.) 
MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND REHABILITATION 

6 . D . Ramulu . 
( Department of Labour and Employment : 

7 . T , Bhimaiah , 
Ne Delhi, the 7th April 1972 

8 . P . Rajanased 
8 . 0 . 978 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Indus 

9. G . Ilayya, 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Gov 

10 . Nasar Mohammed . 
ernment hereby publishes the following award of the 

11 . Shaik Yakub , 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Hydernbad , 
in the industrial dispute between the employers in re 

12. P . Rajam . 
16ion to the management of Singareni Collieries Com 

13 , M . Narayana , 
pany Limited , Post Otice Balampalli ( Andhra Pra 

14 . Sayed Mohammed , 
desh ) , and their workmen , which was received by the 
Central Government on the 29th March , 1972 . 

15 , Babu Khan , 

16 . Mohd . Ismail . 
BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (CENTRAL ) 
AT HYDERABAD 

17 D . Oudetu 

18 . K , Kesavulu . 
PRESENT : 

19 . B Ri mulu . 
Sri P . S . Ananth , B . Sc., B .L . 

20 . M . Simhadri, 
Chairman , Industrial Tribunal, 
Andhra Pradesh , Hyderabad . 

21. M , Moisulu . 

22 . P . Rajalingut , 
MISCELLANEOUS PETITION No. 293 OF 1968 

23 . L . Iralah , 
IN 
INDUSTRIAL DISPUTE No. 30 OF 1967 

24 , K Posham . 

25 . M . Suraiah , 
BETWEEN : 
1. Ch Lakshman , 

26 . K . Ayelas. 

27 . G . D . Kakkaiah , 
2 . Bonda Rayamallu , 
3 . G . Kotalah . 

28 . G . Komaralah . 

29 . P Lakshminarayana , 
4 . G . Tarapati. 

30 , K . Sala . 
5 . Ch Rajanargu , 

( 1541 ) 


TE 


FT 


) 


1572 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 22, 1972 /VAISAKHA 2 , 1894 

PART II 
S S 

= = - - - S - - - 

- - - -- - - - - - - - - 
31. M , Durgaiali, 

Dictated to the Stenographer, transcribed by him 
32 . I. Setty , 

and corrected by me and given under my hand and 
- - Petitioners. 

the seal of the Tribunal, this the 8th day of February , 
AND 

1972 , 
The Singarini Collieries Co., Ltd ., Kothagudem , 

( S .1. ) P . S . ANANTI , 
represent d by its General Manager , - RESUWdlc724, 

Industrial Tribunal. 
APPEARANCES : 

[ 0. / 21 / 37-LRII .) 
Sri M . Komariah , General Secretary , Singareni 

NL ? 
Cullric 

, ? 
Workci , 

inth 1pril 1972 
1 11011 . fi .7 11 !OM 7 . 
Sri M . V , Ramakrishng Rao , Assistant Person 

5 . , 7 * 1 . - - 
zu ! ! icer , Singar -ni Collieries L o ., LV - fur 

rissu : ! 

me semill 11 cup tha Indus 
Jirny 17. 1201072t . 

tria ! Dourag !, 1947 111 of 1947 ) , the Cantal Gov 
r7771 hotely publishi ; t1 foiluwing wird of the 

Col? ? Government Thillatina ! Tribunal, Hyderabad , 
AWARD 

in the industrial rlispuite between th : cmployers in 

relu ion in the 177ragercnt of Singareni Collieries 
This is a petition filed undser Section 33A of the Company Limiter) , Post Odlce Kothaguder ( 1. hra 
Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( hereinafter referred to I radesh ) , and their wolamen , which was received 
As the said Act ) praying to direct the Management not by the Central Government on the 29th March , 1972 . 
to affect the service conditions of the petitioners , 

BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL ( CENTRAL ) 
The petitioners are the workmen employed under 

AT HYDERABAD 
the respondent, which is the Singareni Collieries Com 
pany Limited , Kothagudem . In their petition they 

L HESENT ; 
contended that they have been permanent workmen 
employed under the respondent Company as Boring 

Sri P . S . Ananth , B . Sc , B . L ., Chairman , Industrial 
Mazdoors , that all of tliem belonged to Category II AS 

Tribunal, Andhra Pradesh , Hyderabad . 
per the Wage Board Recommendations , that I, D .NO. 30 
of 1967 is pending for adjudiction , that they are direct 

MISCELLANFOUS PETITION NO . 91 OF 1971 
ly connected and concerned with that dispute, that the 

IN 
respondent has without obtaining prior permission of 
this Tribuna ) has notified by notice dated 22nd Novem 

INDUSTRIAL DISPUTE No . 30 OF 1967 
ber 1968 under Section 9A of the said Act proposing 
tu alter the service conditions, that the respondent is BETWEEN : -- - 
not entitled to arbitraily change the service condi . 

1 . Kopparthi Ankaial 
tions and so the petitioners are obliged to Ale this 
petition and that the l espondent should be directed 

2 . Perka Lingiah 
not to give ellcct to the proposed change in the service: 

3 . Ankam Bondialu 
ronditions 

4 . Shaik Hyder 

General 
5 . Kandunurį 

Mazdoors , 
3 . The respondent filed a counter mentioning the 

Lingalah 

Shanlikhani, 
6 . Choppari 

S . C . Co ., Ltd ., 
circunstances under which the settlement was effected 

Venkateshwaralli 
between the respondent and the unions , and further 

PO , Bolampalli . - - Petitions 

7 . Pamula Ankulu 
colended that the petitioners were transfered as Coal 
Filers , that thougly there was no necessity for the 

3 Akireddi Rajam 

9 . Banna Mallialı 
Management to issue any notice under Sertion 91 by 
way of abundant precaution , the notice was issued , 

AND 
that the case of lhe petitioners is not pending i I . D ) . 
NO . 30 of 1767 And so the petitioners cannot invoke 1ho 

The Manager, Shantikhani, Singareni Colliries 
jurisdiction of this Tribunal and that the action by the 

Co ., Ltd ., P . O . Bellampalli , — Respondent. 
Mu lagement is justified and legal. 

APPEARANCES : 
After the filing of the counter in this case , the 

Sri K . Satyanarayana, Advocate, for Petitioners 
matter underwant some adjournments due to unreacly 

Sri M , Shyam Mohan , Personnel Officer , S . C . 
ness of the parties and also because the powers under 

Co. , Ltd ., P . O . Bellampalli . - Respondent. 
Section 8 of the said Act were not received from the 
Central Government. After the powers were received 

AWARD 
under Section 8 of the said Act the matter was posted 
for enquiry and a representation was made on 17th 

1 . This is a petition filed under Section 33A of the 
January 1972 by the respondent s representative that Tndustri ! Disputes Act , 1947 ( herrcinafter referred to 
the petitioners are not interested in going on with the 

as the said Act ) . 
petition as their grievancc: had been regressed . Since 
the petition . rs representative was not in a position to 

2 . The l ontentions of the petitioners in their pettion 
say whether the inatter had been settled he took some 

in short, are this — There is reference LD , No . 30 of 
limc to verify the matter camo un tenort to this Tri 

1.967 ( in the petition thr J. D . No . is wrongly mentioned 
bunal, Finally when the matter came up before this 

as I. 1 . ITU . 30 / 47 ) pondins before this This Tribunal. 
Tribunal on 81h Felarilary , 1472 a petition was filert by 

Thr Patilioners are also workmen covered by 
the General Secretary of Sinareri Colliries Workers 

1176 Sid Motor1700 . The respondent issued order 
Union Kotl10zuricur , stating that the case was seliled 

dintori 1571 , Sontember, 1968 transiering the petitioners 
mutually helwuen the Management and the Union and 

from tinzis rated catentri General Mazdoors to piece 
so the Union is not pressing the batter before this 

rinted Allers. This alteration in the employment of 
7 ribunal 

the petitioners 1 : 15 altcrerl all the service conditions 

including , payment of wages, quantum , mode of pay 
5 . In view of tlic prosent petition filed stating that 

the ment, 1171ure of duties on the risks involver all 
1112 etter han liten settled inutually between 

clse 

heiiy matters connectel with the lispute , to the pre 
notitioners and the inspondert, there is nothin 

jurlice of the workmen concerned and so the 
that inulj lis done in this matter . So the matter 1 

Iespondent has contravened the provisions of sec 
treated as settird . 

tion) 33 of the said Art One Mekala Jagadish 

and cleven other timc rated workmen affected by the 
Award is passed accordingly . 


SEC . 3 ( ü ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 22 , 1972 / VAISAKHA 2, 1894 


1543 


No. 30 of 1967 and that all that can be said is that the 
petitioners are workmen concerned in that dispute 
and so there is no violation of the provisions of Sec 
tion 33 ( 1 ) ( a ) and that the respondent has taken 
action only under Section 33 (2 ) (a ) of the said Act 
after issuing the necessary notice under Section 9A 
of the said Act. 


5 . Now it has to be seen whether under the circum 
stances of this case it can be said that the present 
order of the respondent transferring the petitioners as 
piece rated fillers is in contravention of the Section 
33 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the said Act. In order to appreciate the 
contentions of the parties , it would be useful to refer 
to the dispute which is the subject matter of I . D . No . 
30 of 1967. The Governm :nt of India , Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation Depart 
ment of Labour and Employment ) by its Order No. 

7 / 21 / 67- LRII, dated 30th October, 1967 referred the 
following dispute under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the said 
Act for adjudication by this Tribunal, nainely : 
" Subject to the views expressed and recomm nda 

tio is made by the Central Ware Board for 
Coal Mining Industry , and the agie ment be 
tween the management cf Singareni Col 
lieries Company Limitad ani their trade 
unicos referred to , in paragraphs 3 to 6 of 
Chapter IX oi the Wage Board s report , 
what further modifications and changes in 
the categorisation and wage structura recom 
mended by the said Wage Board for West 
Bengal and Bihar coal fields are necessary to 
make the said categorisation and wage struc 
ture applicable to the workmen of the Sin 
gareni Collieries Company Limited , having 
regard to the special conditions obtaining in 
the Andhra Pradesh coalfields." 


same order dated 15th September , 1968 had already 
approached this Tribunal with their complaint under 
M . P . 265 / 68 and the said complaint resulted in an 
agreement and the said workmen had been restored 
to their original status by an agreement dated 19th 
April, 1971. So the petitioners may be granted the 
necessary relief. 

The respondents contention in its counter in short 
are these : - The designation shown as General Maz 
doors by the petitioners in the claims statement is 
false and misguided as they were only Tunnel Maz 
doors. The petitioners are workmen concerned in the 
dispute but not connected with the dispute. The 
Management in accordance with Rule 34 under Section 
9A of the said Act by the notice dated 30th May , 1968 
in Form E informed all the resistered Trade Unions 
and the Regional Labour Commissioner ( Central ) 
Hyderabad , that it was its intention to effect the 
change specified in the annexure of the notice with 
effect from 21st June , 1968 . There is no alteration the 
conditions of service to the prejudice of the workmen 
and no adverse effect is caused to the workmen as 
they stand to gain in their emoluments as the wages of 
the piece rated workmen are higher . The workmen 
have no cause to complain as the Central Wage Board 
Rexommendations for the Coal Industry are imple 
mented in respect of 1 : ! , , : : wages. The 
agreement referred to . . ., i;4 : ; : :. " A with other 
workmen does not apply to the n orara , Tha 
practice in vogue is to transfer : :. : ! ?! :; ! : 
to piece rated fillers whenever there is necessary or 
whenever the Tunnel work is completed to find em 
ployment for workmen thus rendered surplus. There 
is no change in their duties as both jobs are unskilled 
under the same underground conditions of work . The 
workmen are not exposed to greater risks either in 
tunnelling or in extracting coal as a piece - rated or 
time rated worker. So there is no prejudice 
caused to the workmen and the complaint is not 
genuine. It is inherent right of the Management to 
transfer its workmen from one category to another 
category or from one job to another job as long as 
there is no reduction in emoluments under the Stand 
ing Orders of the Company . The transfer of the 
workmen is covered by terms expressed or implied 
and by word agreements under Section 33 ( 2 ) ( a ) of 
the said Act. The liability of the workmen to be 
transferred from one department to another or from 
one category to another is an ordinary incident of ser 
vice and such transfers cannot amount to the contra 
vention of Section 33 of the said Act . It is internal 
function of the Management to transfer is employees 
from one work to another work . 

3 . The point that arises for determination in this 
petition is : Whether there has been any contravention 
of Section 33 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the said Act and whether the 
order dated 15th September, 1968 transferring the 
petitioners as piece rated fillers is liable to be set 
aside ? 

4 . The respondent is the Singareni Collieries Com 
pany Limited , Bellampalli. The petitioners were pre 
viously working as Tunnel Mazdoors in Shanti Khani, 
as seen from the evidence though the petitioners des 
cribed themselves in the petition as General Mazdoors . 
The petitioners and other were transferred as piece 
rated fillers by the order of the respondent dated 15th 
September , 1968 . Now the petitioners have filed this 
petition questioning the order passed by the respon 
dent. The first contention of the petitioners is that 
as I . D . No . 30 of 1915 : - - - 77. - in the service 
conditions etc ., are " , . ,. 

and as they 
are connected with . . . . , , spondent can 
not pass any order transferring them as piece rated 
fillers and that such an order is in contravention of 
Section 33 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the said Act. The contention 
of the respondent is that no doubt I . D . No. 30 of 1967 
is pending but that the present dispute relating to the 
present petition is not a matter connected with I. D . 


This Industrial Dispute is ponding . A perusal of the 
dispute covered by I. D . No. 30 of 1967 shows that this 
Tribunal is requested to adjudicate on the question as 
to what further modifications and changes in the cate 
gorisation and wage structure recommended by the 
wage board for West Bengal and Bihar Coal fields are 
necessary to make the said categorisation and wage 
structure applicable to the workmen of the Singareni 
Collieries Company Limited . 


6 . Now considering the nature of the dispute cover 
ed by I . D . No . 30 of 1967 if the petitioners are General 
Mazdoors and if they had been transferred as piece 
rated fillers underground them there may be some 
scope for the contention of the petitioners that such 
a transfer is in contravention of the provisions of 
Section 33 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the said Act, because there is 
bound to be change in service conditions . But from 
the evidence it is seen that the petitioners worked 
only as Tunnel Mazdoors underground and now they 
have been transferred as piece rated fillers under 
ground . It is contended by the learned counsel for 
the petitioners that so far as the Tunnel Mazdoors 
are concerned they are under category I as per the 
Wage Board and that there is no separate category 
for piece rated filler s job and so there is change in : 
the service condition and that if the petitioners are 
continued in category I they would be entitled to 
whatever benefits that they may derive in the event 
of any award being passed in I. D . No . 30 of 1967 in 
their favour . I feel that this contention may hold 
good if the petitioners had been working as General 
Mazdoors working on surface . I have already observ 
ed that the petitioners had been working only as 
Tunnel Mazdoors underground and now the respondent 
has transferred them as piece rated fillers under 
ground . No doubt it may so happen that due to this 
transfer so far as the wages is concerned from daily 
rated they become piece rated but it is now seen from 
EX , R1 that it is because there was no further Tunnel 
work that could be given to Tunnel Mazdoors the res. 


transfer so doubt it may plece (rated in respondent 


1544 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 22 , 1972 /VAISAKHA 2 , 1894 


( PART II — 


pondent instead of sending them away for want of job 
issued the necessary notice and transferred them as 
ooal fillers . No doubt it is contended by the learned 
counsel for the petitioners that it there is no work 
then the respondent should have taken steps to re 
trench them after following the provisions of Section 
25F of the said Act . But I do not fecl that simply 
because the respondent without invoking the provi 
sions of Section 25F had given some alternative 
appointment there had been violation of the provi 
sions of Section 33 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the said Act . The res 
pondents representative also contended that under 
Standing Order 15 of the Company s Standing Orders 
( copy of the Standing Orders was produced before 
me for my perusal at the time of arguments ) the em 
ployees are liable to be transferred from one section 
to another section also , In order to appreciate his 
contention Standing Order 15 is extracted here and it 
is as follows : " 15 . All employees are liable to be 
transferred from one department to another or from 
one section to another or from one colliery to another 
under the same management provided such transfer 
does not cause any prejudice to their wages and other 
conditions of service " . 


unlı-ss there is an agreement. A perusal of Chapter XV 
of Volume I of the Central Wage Board for Coal 
Mining Industry, which deals about interchangeability 
it is seen that the Board had observed that these are 
Management practices and that these are matters 04 
which both the workers and the employers should 
apply their mind so as to evolve better and more 
rational methods of production . First of all in the 
present case it cannot be said that there had been any 
inter - change of any particular work . It is because 
there has been 20 work for Tunnel Mazdoors in order 
to find work some of the Tunnel Mazdoors were trans 
ferred as plece rated Allers. As per the Standing 
Order 15 , already referred to , the respondent cap 
transfer the employees from one section to another 
section . So there is no force in the contention that 
the respondent cannot transfer the petitioners as piece 
rated Allers. 


7 . Now it is seen that so far as the petitioners are 
concerned they have been working only as Tunnel 
Mazdoors underground and now they have been trans 
ferred as piece rated coal fillers underground . Under 
Section 33 ( 2 ) ( a ) of the said Act during the pen 
dency of any proceedings before the Industrial Tri 
bunal in respect of an industrial dispute the employer 
may , in accordance with the Standing Order appli 
cable to workman concerned in such dispute alter , 
in regard to any matter not connected with the dis 
pute , the conditions of service applicable to that 
workman . Now it is seen that the respondent has 
taken action only under Section 33 ( 2 ) ( a ) of the 
said Act and that before taking that action the res 
pondent has also issued the notice under Section 9A 
of the said Act as seen from Ex . Ri, Under the cir 
cumstances of this case it cannot be said that the dis 
pute raised by the petitioners is directly connected 
with the dispute pending in I. D . No. 30 of 1967 so far 
as the nature of work done by them is concerned and 
all that can be said is that they are only concerned in 
the dispute . 


10 . The next contention urged by the learged 
counsel for the petitioners is that daily rated mazdoors 
would be getting their wages daily whereas piece 
rated workers will get wages only if there is work and 
that on days when there is no work they would not 
be paid any wages and so there is uncertainty so far 
as the wages are concerned and so the present trang 
fer iş to the prejudice of the petitioners . So far as 
the wages are concerned , the evidence of P . W . 1 te 
that as fillers on some days they get wages and that 
on some days they won t get any wages at all. The 
evidence of R . W . 1 is that as between category I and 
piece rated workers , piece rated workers get inore 
wages as fillers . He has filed Ex . R3 which is the 
copy of the statement prepared for the year 1971 show 
ing the payment made to seven of the petitioners 89 
Allers. He says that Ex , R3 shows that on an average 
they were getting Rs. 9 ) - to Rs. 10 / - per day . He als 
filcd Ex . R4 , which is the copy of the similar state 
ment for the year 1970 in respect of the same seven 
persons and he says that it also shows that on an 
average they got Rs, 9 .00 per day . Though according 
to P . W . 1 for fillors job no one will be given any daily 
rate on days when there is no filling work and that 
they would be treated as absent on those days , R . W . 1 
says that on the days when there is no work shown 
to the Allers they are paid breakdown wages of 
Rs . 8 . 00 including allowances. He also says that dear 
ness allowance is paid to piece rated workers and that 
piece rated workers get also pushing and tub allow 
ance, lead allowance and lift allowance which allow 
ances are not given to daily rated workers . He also 
says that plece raled workers also get intensive bonus 
which is not given to category I daily rated workers . 
He also says that the fillers have to work only for 
three houry for getting their normal wages of Rs. 11 .00 
to Rs. 12 .00 per day whercas daily rated workers have 
to work for eight hours and that the plece rated 
workers can come and go away at any time after 
filling all the tubs . He also says that at Shanti Khani 
there are no difficulties for fillers for wage earning . 
He also says that there is a practice in this colliery of 
posting of daily rated mazdoors as piece rated fillers . 
Now it is suggested to him that it is only temporary 
daily mazdoors who used to be sent as piece rated 
workers as a practice and he has denied the sugges 
tion , So from the evidence of R . W . 1 and Ex . R3 and 
R .4 it is seen that on an average piece rated workers 
got more than the daily rated tunnel mazdoors . So 
there no forcy, in the contention of the petitioners that 
there is any prejudice caused to the petitioners in view 
of this transfer so far as wages are concerned . 


8 . The petitioners have now fled Ex . Pl to show 
that some of the other Tunnel Mazdoors who were 
also transferred along with the petitioners as per the 
Order dated 15th September 1968 and who also filed 
a petition before this Tribunal were again given their 
old jobs. So far as this aspect of the matter is con 
cerned it is contended by the respondent s represen 
tative that because at that time there were some 
vacancies of Tunnel Mazdoors those persons wcre 
employed in those vacancies and that if any further 
vacancy arises in the usual course the petitioners 
also would be transferred as Tunnel Mazdoors and 
that simply because the respondent had entered into 
an agrccinent with other workmen as evidenced by 
Ex . P1 it does not mean that the petitioners also should 
be taken as Tunnel Mazdoors even if there are no 
vacancies. I feel that there is force in this contcntion . 
If any vacancies of Tunnel Mazdoors arise certainly 
the petitioners may approach the Management anri 
certainly the Management would consider their claims 
in view of the fact that the Management itself had 
taken bacle some of the workmen who had been trans 
ferred as piece rated fillers along with the petitioners, 
On a consideration of the material placed before me I 
am satisfied that in this case there is no violation of 
the provisions of Section 33 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the said Act. 


9 . It is also contended by the learned counsel for the 
petitioners that there is no provisions for inter - chang 
Ing the workers as seen from Chapter XV of Volume 
I of Central Wage Board for the Coal Mining Industry 


11. It is next contended by the learned counsel for 
the petitioners that the coal fillers job is more 
hazardous than the work of the tunnel mazdoors and 
to its transfer is only to the prejudice of the petitioners . 

P . W . 1 says that the difference in the work of tunnel 
mazdoors and fillers is that there is no danger when 
working as tunnel mazdoors since there are stones 


Sec . 3 ( 11 ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; APRIL 22 , 1972 / VAISAKHA 2 , 1894 


I545 


- - - - - 


-- - - 


- 


- - 


APPENDIX OF EVIDENCE : 
Witnesses cxamined for Witnesscs cxamined 
Petitioner . 

Respondent. 


for 


P . W . I : Shri Kandunuri 

Lingaih . 


R . W . 1 : Shri R . Richard . 


Documents exhibited for 

Petition : 


Documents exhibited 

Respondent. 


for 


sulround, whereas there is danger in doing fillers work 
because the coal from the coal seams often fall down 
in lumps when doing Aller s work . It is suggested to 
him that the danger is the same in both kinds of work 
but he has denied this suggestion and according to 
him there may be only some minor accidents for tunnel 
mazdoor but that there is more danger in doing Aller 
work , According to him since category I is a lighter 

job he and the petitioners want this job though they 
.may be getting less income, R . W , 1 says that it tunnel 
ing work is completed the tunnel mazdoors have to go 
and work as fillers that the risk is there for all those 
who work as tunnel mazdoors and as Allers, that when 
the petitioners were transferred as Allers they did not 
receive any complaint from them stating that their 
working as fillers is dangerous and that during the last 
four years there was no danger to or loss of limb so 
far as the petitioners are concerned . He has denied 
the suggestion that the risk is more for Allers . So 
from the evidence of R . W . 1 it is seen that it is usual 
to transfer the tunnel mazdoors as fillers whenever 
there is no work for tunnel mazdoors and that the 
riak is there both for tunnel mazdoors as well as Allers 
and that no complaints were received from the peti 
tioners all these years . From the evidence I am satis 
fied that it is only for the purpose of this case the 
petitioners want to contend that the risk is more for 
Allers than for tunnel mazdoors. When it is seen 
that both tunnel mazdoors as well as Allers have to 
work underground the risk must be the same and it 
cannot be said that there is more risk for Allers and 
less risk for tunnel mazdoors , So I do not find any 
force in the contention of the petitioners that the 
risk involved in the filler s job is more than the risk 
involved in the tunnel mazdoors job . 


Ex. P , I Memorandum of settlc - Ex . RI. : Form E notice at 

ment dt. 19 - 4 -71 under 11- 5 - 68 issued by Bellam 
Rulcs 58 ( 4 ) of the I . D . palli Collierieg unde 
Act between the Manage $ cc , 9A of I. D . Ac 
ment and its workmen in respect of somework 
at Bellom palli, 

Cry with effect from 
5 - 6 -68 . 


Ex . R . 2 : Form E notice at . 

11 - 5- 1968 issued by 
S . C . Co. Ltd . , Bellampalli 
under Section 9A of 
I. D . Act to somework 
crs with effect from 

21- 6 - 1968 . 
Ex. R . 3 : Statement showing 

the number of musters 
and wages of workmon 

for 1971 , 
Ex, R . 4 : Statement showing 

the number of pusters 
and Wages gined by 

workers for 1970 . 
( Sd .) P . S . ANANTH , 

Industrial Tribunal . 
(No. 7 / 21 / 67 -LRII - (i ) . ] 


12 . As already stated it is clear that it is only 
because of want of work for tunnel mazdoors the 
respondent had to transfer the petitioners and other s 
an Allers and even in the notices Ex , R1 it had been 
specially mentioned that the tunnel workers could not 
be continued as there was no tunnel work . This fact is 
admitted even by P . W . 1. If the petitioners had satis 
tactorily proved that there was tunnel work available 

ne date when they were transferred as Allers and 
that inspite of it the respondent had want only trans 
terted the petitioners as fillers then there may be a 
case for the petitioners for getting the order of trang 
fer set aside . But it is not the case of the petitioners . 
The evidence in this case shows that it is because of 
want of tunnel work that the petitioners , instead of 
being sent home, were transferred as Allers, 


New Delhi, the 11th April 1972 


S . O . 978 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central 
Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Hydere 
bad , in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the management of Singareni Collierlen 
Company Limited , Ramagundam Division - II, post 
Office Godavari Khani ( Andhra Pradesh ) and their 
workmen , which was received by the Central Govern 
ment on the 29th March , 1972 . 


13 . For all the aforesaid reasons I hold on this point 
that there has not been any contravention of Section 
W ( 1 ) ( a ) of the said Act and that the order dated 15th 
September, 1968 transferring the petitioners as piece 
rated fillers is not liable to be set aside . 


BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (CENTRAL ) 

AT HYDERABAD . 


14 . In the result the petition is dismissed . In as 
much as it is represented by the respondents repre 
sentative that it ig only for want of work for tunnel 
mazrloor that the petitioners had been transferred 
as fillers, the respondent can consider the question of 
transferring the petitioners as tunnel mazdoors as 
and when vacancy arises for tunnel mazdoor s job . 


PRESENT ; 
Sri P . S . Ananth , B . Sc ., B . L . , Chairman , Industrial 

Tribunal, Andhra Pradesh , Hyderabad. 

INDUSTRIAL DISPUTE NO . 40 OF 1971 
BETWEEN : - 
Workmen of Singareni Collieries Company Limit 
ed , Godavari Khani. 

AND 
The Management of Singarani Collieries Company 

Limited , Godavari Khani. 
APPEARANCES : 
Sri M . Bhasker Rao , Secretary , Singarani Collier 

les workers Union , Godavari Khani, for work 

men . 
Sri M . Shyam Mohan , Personnel Officer , S . C . Co . 

Ltd ., Bellampally for Management . 


Award is passed accordingly , 


Dictated to the Stenographer , transcribed by him 
and corrected by me and given under my hand and 
the goal of the Tribunal. this the 23rd day of Febr 
uary , 1972 , 


1546 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 22 , 1972 /VAISAKHA 2, 1894 


[PART II 


AWARD 


BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (CENTRAL ) 


HYDERABAD 


In the matter of I. D . No. 40 / 71 


The Government of India Ministry of Labour , Em 
ployment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
& Employment ) by its Order No. L / 2112 / 6 / 71 - LRII 
dated 3rd May, 1971 referred the following dispute 
for adjudication by this Tribunal, namely : 


BETWEEN ; 


" Whether the management of Godavari Khani 

No. 6 Incline of Messrs Singarani Collieries 
Company Limited is justified in placing Shri 
Gangarapu Odely , Tyndal in Category IV as 
per Wage Board reconimendation , if not, to 
what relict is the workman entitled and from 
what date ? " 


The workman represented by the Şingareni Coll 

eries Workers Union , P . O . Godavare Khand , 
Dist. Karimnagar , A . , - Workman . 

AND 
Singareni Collierles Company Limited - Employers, 
Memoranduin of Compromise filed by the Parties 

The Government of India had referred the case of 
Shri Gangarapu Odlely , Tyndal, Gdk , No. 6 Incline In 
respect of his promotion as Tyndal Supervisor . 


This order was recelved by this Tribunal 01 17th 
May , 1971 and it was taken on file as Industrial is 
pute No. 40 of 1971 und notices were issued to the 
parties . 


2 . In the clainis statement it is contended that Sri 
Gangarapu Odely has been doing the job ut Tyndal 
Supervisor since mure llian thice years in Gothirvari 
Khant ITO . 6 Incline fliat he should be given Ciltercry 
V 19 per the Wage Board Iveconiniendations, that 
though he was informed that Tuomotion would be 
given he was not pronioted and so lle should be given 
new Category V with circct from 15th August, 1967 . 


2 . The Government of India made, vide their letter 
No . L / 2112 / 6 / 71 - LRII dated 3rd May , 1971, the follow 
ing terms of reference . “ Whether the management of 
Godavari Khani No . 6 Incline of Messers Singareni Col . 
lieries Company Limited is justifled in placing Sri 
Gangarapu Odely , Tyndal in category IV as per the 

Taze Board Recommendations ? If not, to what relief 
is the workman entitled and from what date ? " 


3. To have continued cordial relations the Manage 
ment and the workman representative Union , have had 
actual discussions and arrived at the following settle 
ment on 21st January , 1972 , 


Terms of settlement: 


(1 ) The management agreed to promote Srl Gan 

garapu Odely , Tyndal, Category IV , Gdk . No. 6 
Incline to work as Tyndal Supervisor in Cato 
gory V with the commencing wage vlz . R . 

7. 95 with effect from 1st January , 1972 . 
( ii ) This fully and finally settles the clalm of the 

workman . 


3 . The contentions of the respondent in its counter 
in short fire tlıcsc : — Sri Gangarapu Odcly was work 
Ingas gang mazdoor prior to 15th August . 1967 and 
he was designated as Tyndal. Subsequent to the 
implementation of the Wage Board Recommendation 
all the mazdoors who were in pre -wage board calego 
ries of III and IV working underground will be given 
new Category IV and designated as Tyndal vide sattle . 
ment arrived at before Deputy Communissioner of 
Labour (Central) . As the problems relating to the 
Tyndals were thus solved , the claim relating to the 
Tyndals under the claims statement put forth by the 
Union should be created as having been settled earlier 
to the implementation of the Wage Board Recommon 
dations. The management did not have any category 
of worlumen with the designation of Tyndal, Shri 
Gangarapu Odley had bcen designated as Tyndal and 
he was correctly given Category IV (new ) . The claim 
was made by the Singareni Collleries Workers Union 
by their letter dated 25th July , 1969 for the Arst time 
after a lapse of two years from the date of the Wage 
Board Recommendations. So it is only a belated plea . 
The claim of the workmen for promotion as Tyndal 
Supervisor is not bassed on facts. He neither worked 
as Gang Muccaddam nor did he enjoy old Category 
V . So his claim is not maintainable . It is not correct 
to say that he was promised any promotion . 


4 . This is agreed to as a special case , This case will 
not be cited as precedent and no future claim from 
anybody at any mine will be entertained . 


5 . The parties , therefore, pray that the Hon ble 
Tribunal be pleased to pass an award in terms of this 
compromise . 


The parties, as in duty bound shall ever pray . 
Dated at Godavari Khant this day of January , 1972 . 


Pos Workman 


For Employers 


Sal. N . BILASKAR RAO , 

Secretary , 
Singureni Collieries 
Workers 

Union , 
Goiavärikhani. 


4 . When the matter was posted for enquiry on 24th 
January . 1972 a representation was made that talks of 
comprontise was going on and so the matter was ad 
journed to 1st March , 1972 , On 1st March , 1972 the 
parties filled a memorandum of compromise in regard 
to the terms of settlement and the terms of compro 
inise were recorded . In view of the settlement arrived 
at an award is passed in terms of the settlement 
arrived at. A copy of the memorandum of compro 
mise so shall be attached to the award . 


I. Sa - P . S . TEMURNAKAR 

Agrnt, S . C . Co. Ltd . , 

Ramagundum Division IT . 
1. Su - P . PAPA CAO , 
Divil, Personnel Oficer , 
S . C . Co. Ltd ., Ramagun 
dumn Division , 


Witnesses : 

1. Sal- Ch . SREBRAM MURTHY, Sd - M . SHYAM MOHAN , 
2 . Sul S , T , RAVINDRAN , 

Personnel Officer, 
Bellampalli . 


Dictated to the Stenographer , transcribed by him 
ond corrected by me and given under my hand and 
the seal of the Tribunal, this the 10th day of March , 
1972 

( Sd .) P . S . ANANTA , 
Industrial Tribunal. 


INo. L / 2112 /8 / 71 - LRII. ) 


Soc . 3 ( ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 22 , 1972 /VAISAKHA 2 , 1894 


1517 


tut 


S . O . 979 . In pursuance of section 17 of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central 
Government hereby publishes the following award 
of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal ( No . 
2 ) , Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between the 
employers in relation to the North Bhaggatdih Col 
liery , Post Office Jharia , District Dhanbad , and their 
workmen , which was received by the Central Gov 
ernment on the 4th April , 1972 . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUS 

TRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO . 2 ) AT DHANBAD 
PRESENT: 
Shri Nandagiri Venkata Rao , Presiding Officer. 

REFERENCE No. 28 OF 1970 
In the matter of an industrial dispute under S . 10 ( 1 ) 
( d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to North Bhaggatdih Col 
liery , Post Office Jharia , District Dhanbad . 

AND 
Their workmen . 
APPEARANCES : 
On behalf of the employers .- - Shri S . S . Mukher 

jee , Advocate . 
On behalf of the workmen .-- Shri B . Lal, Advo 


material and after hearing arguments of parties this 
Tribunal made the award and submitted under S . 15 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 on 27th May 1968 , 
holding that the quarry miel s of North Bhaggatdin 
colliery were not entitled to any remuneration other 
than the one which they had already received for 
Cong on loaded trucks from t1 . 0 working faces 10 
the Depot and unloading coal at the depot. On the 
Writ petition , CWJC NO. 546 of 1968 preferred by the 
workinen under Articles 26 and 227 of the Constitu 
tion of India , Hon bl . High Court of Patna passed the 
order on 9th September 1970 setting aside the award 
and remitted the case back to this Tribunal for a 
fresh hearing and disposal in accordance with the 
directions given in the order. On receipt of the order 
the reference is renumbered as Ref. No. 28 / 70 . Work 
men were represented by Shri B . Lal, Advocate and 
the empicyers by Shri S . S . Mukherjee , Advocate . 
MWs 3 and 4 were recallcd and further cross - examined 
and WW . 1 is recalled and further examined . On 
behalf of the employers two more witnesses were exa 
mined and Exts . M11 to M16 and W .4 and W . 5 were 
marked , 


cate . 


STATE : Bihar . 

INDUSTRY : Coal. 
Dhanbad 30th March , 1972 / 10th Chaitra , 1893 Saka . 

AWARD 
The Central Government, being of opinion that an 
industrial dispute exists between the employers in 
relation to North Bhaggatdih Colliery , Post Office 
Jharia , District Dhanbad and their workmen by its 
order No . 1 / 25 / 63 - LRII, dated 11th January 1965 as 
corrected by order No. 1 / 25 / 63 - LRII, dated 17th Nov 
ember 1965 referred to the Central Government In 
"dustrial Tribunal, Dhanbad under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 for adjudication 
the dispute in respect of the matters specified in the 
schedule annexed thereto . The schedule is extracted 
below : 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the quarry miners of the North Bhag 

gatdih colliery are entitled to any extra re 
muneration for coming on loaded trucks from 
the working faces to the depot and for un 
loading coal at the depot , and , if so , at what 
rate and from what date ? " 


3 . According to the schedule of Reference as correct 
ed by the Ministry on 17th November 1965 the affect 
ed workmen were " quarry miners" . The case of the 
workmen is that the affected workmen were in fact 
quarry miners of North Bhaggatdih colliery (herein 
after referred to as the colliery ) , that in that capa 
city they were entitled to get the wages of category 
V workmen for the work of loading coal as per the 
Labour Appellate Tribunal s award and that for 
coming on the loaded trucks from the quarry to the 
depot and for unloading the coal at the depot they 
were entitled to extra remuneration at 0 . 50 paise per 
ton . According to the workmen each truck was of 
the capacity of 5 tons and that the extra remunera 
tion claimed by them should be paid with effect from 
1st January 1957 . The employers denied that the 
affected workmen were quarry miners or that they 
were entitled to wages of category V or to any extra 
remuneration for coming on the loaded trucks from 
the quarry and unloading coal at the depot. The em 
ployers also denied that the trucks were of 5 ton 
capacity ; according to them the capacity of each of 
the trucks was 3 tons only . In their additional 
written statement filed on 18th December 1965 the 
employers had taken a preliminary objection that the 
affected workmen not being " quarry miners” , the 
alleged dispute mentioned in the schedule of Refer 
ence did not exist at all and , as such no adjudication 
can be made by the Tribunal. Among the various 
directions given by the Hon ble High Court while 
remitting the case to this Tribunal for fresh hearing 
and disposal, the first one is " to go into the question 
as to whether the Reference in regard to the quarry 
miners could be answered as it was or whether the 
expression quarry miners used in thë terms of Re 
ference with reference to the other facts and circum 
stances of the case could mean the workmen con 
cerned , namely the workmen who were truck loaders 
and were unloading the trucks" . In view of this direc 
tion I would like to dispose of the priliminary objec 
lion raised by the employers at the outset . 

4 . In order to appreciate the preliminary objection 
the facts which gave rise to the Reference may be . 
stated in brief. On 2nd August 1963 the Secretary , 
Khan Mazdoor Congress , Jharia addressed a letter , 
Ext. W . i to the Regional Lubour Commissioner ( C ) 
Dhanbad representing approximately 22 workmen in 
the loading and unloading work of trucks at the col 
liery and raising an industrial dispute claiming that 
they were to be paid the wages of category V work 
men and extra remuneration at - / 8 / - annas per ton 
for going on the loaded trucks and unloading coa 
at the depot and for breaking the blasted coal at 
- / 4 / - annas per ton . They had also mentioned that 
the capacity of each of the trucks was 5 tons. In this 


2 . The Central Government Industrial Tribunal 
Dhanbad registered the reference as Reference No . 13 
Of 1965 on its file . Employers as well as the workmen 
filed their statements of demands . While it was pend 
ing before the Central Government Industrial Tri 
bunal, Dhanbad the " in 199 transferred to 
this Tribunal, by the ( : " 0 " , ! !. " : by its order 
No . 8 / 25 /67 - LRII , date . $ : ! 11... . .. . nder Section 
33B ( 1 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. Conse 
quently , the reference is renumbered on the file of 
this Tribunal as Ref. No. 13 of 1967. The workmen 
were represented by Shri Raj Bhallab Prasad , Secre 
tary , Khan Mazdoor Congress and the employers by 
Shri M , M . Agarwalla , Superintendent. By consent of 
the workmen , Exts . M1 to M5 were marked for the 
employers . On behalf of the workmen 4 witnesses 
were examined and Exts . W . 1, W2 and W3 for the 
workmen and Ext . M6 for the employers were marked , 
On behalf of the employers 5 witnesses were exa 
mined and Exts . M7 to M10 were marked . On this 


1548 


THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : APRIL 22 , 1972 /VAISAKHA 2 , 1894 


( PART II 


- - 


- - - - - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


letter of 2nd August 1963 the Secretary , Khan Maz 
door Congress had described the affected workmen 
AS " quarry miners ( loaders ) " . In the commento sub 
mitted by them dated 1st November 1963, Exh. M ? the 
employers had specifically stated that the affected 
workmen were not " quarry miners ( loaders ) " as 
claimed by the union but they were really " truck 
loaders" . In the comments it was also mentioned that 
the very same demands raised by Khan Mazdoor Con 
gress through their letter dated 2nd August 1963 were 
raised by the Colliery Mazdoor Sangh previously 
through their letter dated 14th December 1962 , Ext . 
M6 and Ext. M8 and in respect of the demands , In 
clusive of the present one , the Conciliation Oficer had 
submitted his failure report , Ext. M3 on 23rd January 
1963 . Demand No. 1 therein was for the rate of the 
loaders and it was dropped and the demand No. 3 
which was for the alleged separation job had already 
been referred to the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , 
being Reference No. 27 / 63 . After the comments of 
the employers were received and necessary enquiries 
were made , the Regional Labour Commissioner ( C ) 
Dhanbad submitted his tailurc report in the present 
caşe , Ext. Mi on 16th November 1963 . After some 
correspondence between the Central Government 
and the partics on 26th February 1964 the Central 
Government addresscd letters, Ext. M2 to the parties 
stating. The Government of India do not consider 
the dispute fit for refcrence to an industrial tribunal 
tor adjudication because the workmen in question 
were actually truck loaders and were being paid at 
par with wagon loaders as provided for in paragraph 
158 of the Labour Appellate Tribunal s decision " . 
Then , with reference to the above letter of the Cen 
tral Government the Secretary , Khan Mazdoor Con 
gress addressed again a lotter Ext. W . 2 to the Cen 
tral Government to review its decision and to refer 
the dispute to an Industrial Tribunal for adjudica 
tion , asserting in clear terms that the workmen were 
only " quarry miners and they should not be treat 
ed on par with " wagon loaders " in terms of the 
various awards , Ext . W . 2 was again followed by the 
Secretary , Khan Mazdoor Congress by a letter , Ext. 
W . 3 addressed to the Labour Minister directly stating 
thercin that " the contention of the Ministry that these 
workers are truck loaders is most arbitrary , illegal 
and irrealisable " . Then the Central Government by 
its order No. 1 / 25 / 63 -LRII, dated 11th January 1965 , 
being of opinion that an industrial dispute exists be 
tween the parties, referred the dispute mentioned in 
the schedule for adjudication . The schedule was as 
follows: 


My object in discussing the abova documents at suchen 
length is to show that the Ministry as well as the 
parties did not use the terms " quarry miners " and 
" truck loaders" in general and loose sense referring to 
the affected workmen but they have used these terms 
after due deliberation strictly as technical terms 08 
they are defined and used in various Awards. The 
workmen assert that the affected workmen are en 
titled to extra remuneration for coming on loaded 
trucks from the working faces to the depot and for 
unloading coal at the depot in addition to their wages 
of category V in their capacity as " quarry miners . 
In view of the replacement of the previous schedule 
of the Reference by the present schedule the intention 
of the Ministry also is clear that the affected work 
men should be considered only on " quarry miners " , 
In view of the general terms of the previous schedule 
of Reference it was possible to determine that cate 
gory of the affected workmen with reference to the 
other faces and circumstances of the case as incidental 
to the matters in dispute and also to decide if they 
were entitled to extra remuneration for doing any 
additional job . But it cannot be done now . If on 
the material on record it is found that the affected 
workmen , workmen who come on loaded trucks from 
the working faces to the depot and unload coal at 
the depot, are not " quarry mincrs" , no adjudication 
in terms of the Reference is possible, 

5 . The term " quarry miners" is referred to in para 
118 of the Decision of the Labour Appcllate Tribunal 
and it is pointed out that the difference between the 
" quarry pick miners " and " quarry miner " is that the 
coal which the latter cuts has bern loosened by ex 
plosives . As per para 125 of the Decision a " query 
miner " is to be paid the wages and remuneration fixed 
for category V workman for cutting and loading 1 - 2 / 3 
tubs, i. e , 60 cft . of coal per shitt on the same terms as 
are fixed for the quarry pick miner . It follows from 
the above that a " quari y miner " has to cut coal and 
also to load . It is now to be seen from the evidence 
on record if thc affected workmen also were cutting 
the coal. Ext. M4 are the form B registers for the year 
1963, 1964 and 1965 . They are statutory registers 
maintained under S . 48 of the Mines Act and Rule 78 
of the Mines Rules. These registers do not show any 
one as a " quarry miner " . They have the names of 
lorry loaders. At sl. no . 75 the namc of Dinbandhu 
Tamria is found who is examined as WW . 4 . In the 
very first sentence of his deposition , WW . 4 says that. 
he is working as a loader in the quarry . Ext. M5 are 
the attendance registers also for the years 1963 , 1961 
and 1965 . They arc also statutory registers in form D 
maintained under S .48 of the Mines Act and Rule 78 
of the Mines Rules . In these registers also designa 
tion of no workman is shown as " quarry miner ” but 
lorry loaders are there . The name of WW . 4 appears 
at sl, no . 20 . From the very hegining the case of the 
employers has been that the affected workmen were 
only doing the job of loading trucks and nothing more 
and that according to the system of work at the 

ry there were three groups of workmen ( i ) those 
whose duties were to make holes , after blasing to 
break the lumpy coal and then push the lumps down 
the slope of the quarry ; ( ii ) hazri kamins whose 
duties were to pick out thc shales from the cut coal 
which had settled at the quarry bottom and also to 
accumulate the slack and ( iii ) the loaders whose duty 
was to load the coal into the trurks and thereafter un 
load the same at the demot , MW , 3 , 4 and 5 have 
tendered evidence in support of the above system . 
MWs 3 and 5 are categorinal in their statement that 
the truck loaders did not do any job other than load 
ing and unloading trucks . MW 4 is one of the truck 
londers and MW . 5 is a Overman incharge sinon 18 
vrors . Out of the 4 witnrgers examined for the virk 
mon . MW . 1 is the Secretary of the Central Khan 
Mazdoor Congress and he was never a workman , 
WW . 2 is the general secretary of Khan Mazdoor Con 
gress and he was also not a workman . WW . 3 was a 


" Whether the workmen of North Bhaggatdih col 

liery are entitled to any extra remuneration 
in view of the system adopted by the man 
agement of the said colliery , for unloading 
coal at the depot , and , if so , at what rate and 
from what date ? " 


lorry no. 20 . From the the affected worlothing more 


quari 


It is to be remembered that previously the Ministry 
had categorically held that the affected workmen were 
" truck loaders " and not " quarry miners " , that the 
union protested and asserted that the affected work 
men were " quarry miners " and not " truck loaders " 
and that inspite of the assertion by the union the 
Ministry referred the question in general terms, with 
out using the terms " quarry miners " and " truck 
loaders " . But consequently by the order No. 1 / 25 / 
. 3 - LR - II . dated 17th November 1965 the Ministry 
chose to substitute the schedule above referred to by 
the following schedule : - - 


“ Whether the quarry miners of the North Bhag 

gatdih colliery are entitled to any extra re 
muneration for coming on loaded trucks from 
the working faces to the depot and for un 
loading coal at the depot, and, if so , at what 
rate and from what date ? " 


Sec . 3 ( 11 ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 22, 1972 /VAISAKHA 2 , 1894 


1549 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - - - 


- 


and Employment) by its order No. L - 29011 / 13 / 71 - LR 
IV date 24 - 6 - 1971 referred the following dispute under 
Section 10 ( 1 ) ( ) of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
( hereinafter referred to as the said Act ) for adjudi 
cation by this Tribunal, namely : 
" Whether the action of the management of 

Messrs. Andhra Cement Company Limitet, 
Vijayawada in paving to the re - employed 
workers of Jayanthipuram mines wages lower 
than those thicy were drawing at the time of 
thcir retrenchment in June . 1968 , is justified ? 
If not, to what relief arc the workmen en 
titled ? " 


driller and wW . 4 one of the truck loaders. Of course , 
this witness WW .4 says that the loaders also were 
breaking big chunks of coal falling down owing to 
blasting . The evidence of solitary witness WW . 4 19 
not supported by any material and it is contradicted 
on oath by MWs 3 , 4 and 5 . No reason is shown why 
this evidence of this solitary witness should be pre 
ferred to the oral evidence of MWs 3 to 5 and form B 
and form D statutory registers. I am inclined to 
accept the evidence of the employers as true. Conse 
quently , the affected workmen , who come on loaded 
trucks from the work faces to the depot and unload 
coal at the depot, as they do not cut coal at all , do 
not answer the definition of " quarry miners " as laid 
down in paras 118 and 125 of the Decisions of the 
Labour Appcllate Tribunal and they cannot be held 
as " quarry miners" . Shri B . Lal, the learned Adyo 
cate for the workmen has argued that the affected 
workmen should be treated as " loaders " and the Tri 
bunal should proceed to determine their extra remu 
neration . But as " loaders " the affected workmen have 
no case at all . The Ministry has already found 
through the letter , Ext , M2 that the dispute between 
the affected workmen as loaders and the employers 
wag not fit for reference . As I have already pointed 
out, the case of the parties and of the Ministry mak 
ing the reference has been that the affected workmen 
were " quarry mincrs . To treat the affected work 
men as “ truck loaders" is to change the very basis 
of the Reference and to adjudicate a new case which 
is not referred . In this view I find that the reference 
cannot be answered . 

8. The award is made accordingly and submitted 
under Section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 . 

(Sd .) N . VENKATA RAO , 

Presiding Officer , 
Cen , Goyt, Industrial Tilbu 

nal (No. 2 ) Dhanbad , 
[No. 1/ 25 /63 - LRII - ( Part.). ] 


This reference was taken on filc as Industrial Dis 
pute No. 51 of 1971 and notices were isslied to the 
narties . The petitioners are + 172 workmen of Andhra 
Cement Company Limited Vijvawada representeri 
by their Trade Union Andhra Cecent Company Eni 
ployees Union , Vijayavada and the respondent is the 
Andhra Cement Company Limited , Vijayawada . The 
nctitioners filed their claims statement and the res 
nondent filed its count : r . 


2 . The contentions of the petitioners in their claims 
statement in short are these : The petitioners in all 
41 workmen whosennns Ar . given in the list append 
cd to the claims statement are the affected workmen 
whose wiges have been fixed lower than the wages 
drawn by them on the eve of retrenchment . 
These 41 workmen are among the total of 
66 workmen retrenched in June 1968 from the 
Jayanthipuram mines in which they were working 
since a long time. All the said workmen were re - em 
ployed in the said mine with effect from the dates 
shown in the statement. The basic wages of 41 out 
of them have been fixed lower than the basic wages 
paid to them by the respondent. Out of the said 41 
workmen , 40 have been employed in the same cate 
gorv of mazdoors. At the time of retrenchment each 
of them was drawing Rs. 62 .66 ps ., per month but 
on re - employment their basic wages were fixed at 
Rs. 61.10 ps., thus reducing the busic wage by about 
Rs . 166 ps., per month resulting in consequential 
variations of Dearness allowancr . H .RA. etc . The 
remaluing 41st workman was working as a tally clerk 
and he was drawing a hasic wage or Rs. 74 . 00 but on 
re - employment his basic wages is fixed at Rs. 70 .00 . 
The pctitioners are enlitled to the hasic wogcs paid 
to them on the eve of the last retrenchment since they 
have been rc - employed under Section 25H of the said 
Act, 


New Delhi, the 12th April 1972 
S . O . 980 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) . the Central 
Government hereby publishes the folloving aware of 
the Central Government Industrial Tribunal , Hviera 
bard , in the industrial dispute between the emplover 
in relation to the management of Andhra Cement Com 
pany Limited , Vijayawada and their workmeni , which 
was received by the Central Government on the 39111 
March , 1972 . 
BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , ANDHRA 

PRADESH , HYDERABAD 


PRESENT : 
Sri P . S , Ananth , B .Sc , B . L ., Chairman , Indus 

trial Tribunal Andhra Pradesh , Hyderabad . 

INDUSTIIT ! DISPUTF No , 51 OF 1971 


The respondent s contention in short is this : There 
cannot be any Industrial dispute regarding the scales 
of wages at which an employer is to be recruited and 
no industrial dispute can arise regarding such scales 
and wages . It is open to the management to enter 
into contract of employment with the workers who 
are to be employed . On this ground alonc the refe 
rence should be rejected. In the month of June, 1968 
owing to adverse trade con litions, one of our Lime 
stone Mines at Jayanthinuran was closed on 24 - 6 
1968 after laying off the workmen for a very long 
period . Consequently the workers as shown in the 
counter were retrenched . The retrenchcd employcos 
reccived all dues and their accounts were fully and 
inally settled . Full retrenchment compensation was 
vaid as provided for under the said Act . Later in the 
last week of November 1968 the quarry was tempo 
rarily reopened and the retrenched workers were 
given option for re - employment as fresh temporary 
hands , 30 retrenched workers and two tally clerks 
were taken in the first batch in November , 1968 , 
Subscquently as condition improved the mine was 
expanded and more retrenched workers were re - em . 
ployed as fresh temporary hands. At the time of 
retrenchment out of 59 E Grade Mazdoors , 40 were 
drawing Rs. 62 .68 ps., as their basic wage and the 
remaining 19 were getting Rs. 61. 10 ps ., as their basic 
wage . While they were l ( - employed as fresh hands , 


BERWEEN ; 
Workmen of Andhra Cement Company Limited , 
Vijayawada . 

AND 
Management of Andhra Cement Company Limited , 

Vijayawada. 
AFPEARANCES ; 

Sri K . Satyanarayana, Advocate, for workmen . 
Sri Srinivasamurthy , Hony . Secretory of the 

Federation of Chamber of Commerce and In 
dustry , for management. 

AWARD 


Manauemente de Andh 


The Government of India Ministry of Labour , Em 
ployment and Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour 


1350 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 29, 1972 /VAISAKHA 2, 1894 


(PART II -- 


- - - 


- 


the company offered them the minimum of " E " Grade 
which is Rs. 61. 10 ps., as basic wage which is the 
starting of the " E " grade . Similarly out of 
two tally clerks , one tally clerk was drawing Rs. 74 .00 
at the time of retrenchment and when he was re - em 
ployed he was offered a fresh temporary hand for 
which Rs. 70 . 00 is the starting point of the tally clerk 
grade. The right of the management to recruit 19hour 
la unlimited and there cannot be any industrial dispute 
regarding the choice of the personnel at all. Section 
25 - H of the said Art provides an exception that in 
case the management were to recruit labour in the 
posts for which the retrenchment has taken place , the 
retrenched worker should be given preterence . It 
is under these circumstances the retrenched workers 
had been chosen . The retrenched workers cannot 
claim any new night, than A new employee can have . 
The preference le only for the nurpose ot apnointment 
and has no relation to the salary which he drew at 
the time of retrenchment. The retrenched worker got 
the entire henefit and it is because of the retrench 
ment the pavmont of compensation is provided for 
under Chapter V - A of the said Art and Section 25 - H 
only provides an additionat benefit in the choice of 
personnel. He has no right whatsoever for the pay 
ment of salary which he was getting at the time of 
rotrenchment. 


petitioners were offered re - employment. Under Ser 
tlon 25 - H of the said Act where any workman is 
retrenched and when the einployer proposes to take 
into his employ any persons, he shall, in such manner 
As may be prescribed , give an opportunity to the 
retrenched workmen to offer themselves for ro 
employment and such retrenclied workmen who offor 
themselves for re - employment sholl have droformare 
over other persons . Now it is contended by the 
learner counsel for the respondent that all that this 
section provides is that retrenched worker should be 
offered re - employment but it does not state that when 
they are re - employed they should be given the wages 
that they were drawing at the time of retrenchment 
and so the contention of the petitioners that they 
should be granted Wages which they were receiving 
at the time of retrenchment cannot be sustained He 
relied upon the decision reported in INDIAN HUME 
PIPE Cn . V BHIMARA BALIRAM GATBHIYA 
( 1965 ( TT ) L.LT nire 402 ) . Tn that CASA their Lord 
ships ohserved that all that of Section 25 - T rrovides 
for is preferenca to retropcheat workmen in cauring 
employment , hit anno not say that the re - pinlopment 
should he on the former terms and nonditions of ser 
vice and that it had been the intention of the 
legislature , it would have hern made snecific provi 
sions to that effont A Perusal of thi - Annirinn also 
chairs that the dopisinn retorted in TNDTAN HUME 
PIPE Co . 1 LABOUR COURT ( 1963 ( 1 ) LLT page 
770 ) . now relied unon by the learner counsel for the 
netitioners was referred to and that it was dissented 
from . 


4 . No oral documentary and evidence was adduced . 
Only arguments were addressed . The dispute that is 
referred to is whether the action of the management 
of M / s. Andhra Cement Timited , Vitayawada in pay 
ing to the re - employed workers ot Jayanthipuram 
mine the wages lower than thosn they were drawing 
at the time of retrenchment in June, 1968 is justifed 
and if not to what relief are the workmen entitled ? 


0 . It is common ground that the petitioners were 
working in Javanthipuram mine and that they were 
Among 68 workmen who were retrenched in June , 
1968 due to adverse trade conditions and that subse 
quently they were also re - employed along with the 
remaining workmen who were retrenched . It is also 
common ground that out of the petitioners who were 
41 in number. 40 ars mazdoors who have been draw 
ing wages of Rs. 62. 66 ps .. ach and that the 41st neti 
tioner was working as a tally clerk drowing Rs. 74 .00 
at the time of retrenchment and that when they were 
re - employed they were treated as freshers and the 
wages were fixed for the mazdoors at Rs . 61. 10 ps , 
and that for the tally clerk the pay was Axrd at 
Rs. 70 .00 per month , Now tle contention of the peti 
tioners is that since they were re - employed as per 
the provisions of Section 25 -Hof the said Art wiens 
ought to have herni Axed at the same rate that thou 
were paid at the time of retrenchment but that res 
Dondent is not entitled to treat them as freshers and 
fix the wages of a fresher. The contention of the ray 
pondent is that the petitioners were priven full re 
trenchment compensation and that they were re 
employed only as fresh temporary hands and that the 
re - employment does not mean that they should be 
given wares which they ware l arriving at the time 
of retrenchment and that Section 25 - H of the said Art 
only provide an additional benefit in the rhoice of 
personnel. Now it lias to ho sern whether the action 
of the management can be justified . 


8 . The learned counsel for the petitionerg relied upon 
the decision reported in 1963 ( T ) LLJ, page 770 where 
in their Lordships considered the question as to whe 
ther an employer is bound to re - employ workmen on 
the same condition as to wages as was prevniling be 
fore retrenchment, and after monsidering the conteni . 
tions put forward hefore their Tordships hy both 
parties , their Tordshine finally hold that throtrench 
ed workmany worn entitled to claim the nin emolu 
ments as at the time of retrenchment and that the 
omployer is not at Tiherty to rhange the wro struc 
ture at his will The inarned rounsel for the neti . 
tinnor : alen enlied 110on the decision reported in MITT 
TER & PHIPS ( INDTA ) V . THEIR EMPLOYEES 
UNION ( 1987 ( IT ) LUJ, page 92 ? ) . In that case the 
retrenched workman was not riven preference . The 
Lahour Court directed that the retrennten nikman 
he deemend to be re - employed and that he shall also 
he entitled to the pres hc as drawint at the time 
of retrenchment. His Torrlstein held that no inflrmity 
wng found in the order of Labour Courtso far as 
this derision is concerner the learned counsel for the 
respondent contended that nothing has been n ntion 
ed specifically in thint decision about re - emploving the 
workman on the wires that he was drown at the 
time of retrenchment and so this does not help the 
hetitioners hut the contention of the lonrnrn counsel 
for the petitioners is that the Labour Court had held 
that the retrenched ryployee should he tive wages 
as he was drawing at the time of retrenchment and 
that this order was linheld . Even if the content in of 
the learned counsel for the respondent that this leci 
sion docs not apply to the facts of the present casa 
AS arrepted still there is the derision reported in 1903 
( T ) LTJ, page 770 . No douht it is contenied hy the 
learncd counsel for the respondent that this n ot 
their Lordships was dissented from by the tinmbay 
High Court in the later decision rentrai in 1965 ( IT ) 
LLI mage 40 ? but so far as th ] s Tribunal is r oncern 
ed it has to tollow only the decision of the Andhra Pra 
desh High Court in nreference to the decisions of 
other High Courts . So the principle laid down hy 
their Lordshing in 19A ? ( I ) LLJ, page 770 andlies to 
th , tacts of the prcinnt cage and so the resnondent 
ought to have given them the wages that they were 
drawins at the time of retrenchment. So, the action 
of the management in equating them with the new 
comers is not justified . 


6 . Though in the counter one of the contentions was 
that the reference itself should be rejected since there 
cannot be any industrial disoute revanding the scales 
of wages at which an emplovce is to he recruited and 
that no industrial dispute can ariss regarding scales 
and wages , no arguments were addressed by the 
learned counsel for the respondent As regards this 
contention and so it has to be taken that this abire . 
tion is not pressed . So there is no need to consider 
this contention containod in the counter . 


Age 407 Játor deriod from by 


7. As already stated the petitioners were retrench 
ed due to adverse trade conditions and that when 
the respondent wanted to employ fresh hands, the 


. 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 22 , 1972 /VAISAKHA 2 , 1894 

1 $ $ i 
= - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - 
9 . For all the aforesaid reasons, I holi on tliis re cordingly . Let the petition of compromise form part 
ference that the action of the managerunt in paving of this award , This is my uward . 
to the l e - employed workers Vages louvor thall those 

( Sd . ) S . N . BAGCHI, 
they were drawing at the time or their l etrenchment 
is not justified and that the fetitions ie untitled 

Presiding Officer . 
to draw wages that tiiey wer ; dua mingut the time 
ol retrenchment . The responout is directed to pay 

Ditted 4th April , 1972 . 
each of the inazdoors at Rs. 01 06 D . , per month and 

BEFORE THE PRESIDING OFFICER CENTRAL 
the tally clerk at Rs. 74 .00 per month ilom the res 

GOVT , INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 
pective dates of their re - errit invment and this peti 
tioner s would be entitled to recover the difference in 

REFERENCE No. 85 OF 1971 
the wages lipto date as fixed JW . 

Employers in relation to Hirakhun Colliery . 
Award is passed accordingly . 

AND 
Dictated to the stonographer , transcribed by him 

Their Workman . 
and corrected by me and Livt unrlsr my hond and 

Shri Panchanan Banerjee , 
the seal ol t . le Tribunal this viie 23rd day of Decem 
ber , 1971 . 

Petition of Compromise 
( S ( I.) P . S . ANANTII , 

With prejudice to the respective contention of the 
industrial Tribunal. 

parties above nanied , the parties have arnivably set 
[No. L - 29011 / 13 / 71 -LR - IV . ] 

tled their dispute on the following terms, 

Terms of Settlement 
S . O . 981. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Indus 

1 . That the concerned workman will accept his 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central 

dismissal froni his services with effect from 6th Feb 
Government hereby publishes the following award of 

l uary , 1971 as justified . 
the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , 
in the industrial dispute betu ten the employers in 

2 . That the Employers will pay to the concerned 
relation to the management of Hirakun Colliery , Post workman within 15 days after the publication of the 
Office Noturik , District Purulia and their workmen , Award an ex - gratia payment to be computed on the 
which was received by the Central Government on basis of 15 days wages per year of continuous ser 
the 10th April, 1972 , 

vice . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUS 

3 . That the concerned workman will have no future 
TRIAL TRIBUNAL AT CALCUTTA 

claim whatsoever with the Employers and will never 

ask for re - employment also . 
REFERENCE No. 85 OF 1971 

It is humbly played that the Honrable Tribunal 

be graviuosly pleased to accept the compro 
PARTIES ; 

misc as fair and reasonable and be pleased to 
Employers in relation to the management of Hira 

pass an Award in terms of the above settle 
khun Colliery . 

ment. 
AND 

For the Workman . 

For the Employer, 
Their workmen 

PANCHANAN BANERJEE, 

( Sd .) Illegible. 
PREŞENT; 

Agent , 
Sri S . N . Bagchi, Presiding Officer . 

HIRAKHUN COLLIERY 
APPEARANCES : 

Certification . 
On behalf of Employers.- - Shri Shyam Sunder 

It is certified that the concerned workman Shri 
Kejriwal, Personnel Olllcer . 

Panchanan Banerjec hus signed in my sence after 
On behalf of Workmen . - Shri Panchanan Baner the above settlement was read over and explained to 
jee , Concerned workman . 

him by me. 
STATE ; West Bengal. INDUSTRY : Coal Mine , 

(Sd .) B . Jogi , ADVOCATE , 

Dhanbad . 
AWARD 

Certification . 
The Government of India , in the Ministry of Labour , 

It is certifled that the Agent of the Colliory 
and Rehabilitation ( Deparulilent of Labour and Em 

has 
ployinent ) , rcferred the following dispute vide Order 

signed in my presence after the above settlement was 
No. L - 1912 / 67 / 71 -LR . Il datet 6th July , 1971, between 

read over and explained to him by me. 
the enployers in relation to the manageinent of Hira 

( Sd .) B . C . MUKHARJEE ADVOCATE , 
khun Colliery and their workmen , to thuis Tribunal, 
for adjudication : 

Dhanbad . 
" Whether the action of the management of Hira 

[No. L / 1912 /67 / 71- LRII. ] 
khun Colliery , Fost Office Neturia , District 

KARNAIL SINGH , Under Secy . 
Purulia in dismissinx Sri Panchanan Banerjee , 
Lamp Chargeman , with ellect from the 6th 
February , 1971 is justified ? If not, to what 

( Department of Labour and Employment) 
relief is the workman concerned entitled ? " 

New Delhi, the 17th April 1972 
2 . The workman disputant can Sign his naine in 

S . O . 982 - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
English . l explained to him the contents of the com 

sub - section ( 3 ) of section 1 of the Employees State 
promise petition which has been filed before this Tri 

Insurance Act 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Govern 
bunal today , in Bengali as the workman knows Ben ment hereby appoints the 23rd day of April , 1972 as 
gali . He understood the contents of the petition the date on which the provisions of Chapter IV 
and unequivocally accepts the terms which in my view 

( except sections 44 and 45 which have alrea 
appear to be fair , just and equitable . The compro 

een 

brought into force ) and Chapters V and VI except 
mise is , therefore , recorded and an award be made ac sub - section ( 1 ) of section 76 and sections 77, 78 , 79 


-- - - - - - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - - - - - 


- - 


- - - - 


- 


- - - - - - - 


- - -- 


1552 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 22, 1972 /VAISAKHA 2, 1894 

[ PART IT --- 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
and 81 which have already been brought into force ] Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central 
of the said Act shall come into force in the following Government hereby refers the said dispute for ad 
areas in the State of Mysore , namely :- - 

judication to the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay , consti 

- -- - - tuted under section 7A of the said Act . 
Si, District Tuluk Hobli Village 

SCHEDULE 
I , Raichur Koppal Hithali hal 

Hosalhalli 

( i ) Having regard to the duties, functions, res 
Revente Villugc , 

ponsibilities and status of Manager - Fight 
Circtc , 

Engineering, Manager - Technical Training, 

Chief Flight Engineers , Chief Technical Ins 
2 . Raichur Koppal Hittiankul Munirabad 

tructors and Technical Instructors, whether 
Revents fulling within 

the claim of the Indian Flight Engineers 
Circle . T . I . roject 

Association for a common interest seniority 
area . 

list of holders of the above -mentioned posts 
3. Raicuur Koppal Ilitlian liii ! 

Holentilupur 

and the posts of Flight Engineers for purposes 
Revenue Villagc . 

of conversion training and matters incidental 
Circle , 

thcreto is justified ? 
( ii ) Whether the appointments of Sarvashri U . 

Mehrotra and C . M . Mathews to the posts of 
[ No . F. S. 38013 ( 8 ) / 71 -1HI . ] 

Technical Instructor and subsequently to the 
DALJIT SINGH, Under Secy . 

posts of Chief Technical Instructor are pro 

per and justified under the promotion proce 
श्रम और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय 

dure laid down by the Corporation ? If not , 

to what relief, if any , are the other affected 
( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 

Flight Engineers entitled ? 

___ [ No. L - 11011 / 7 /72- LR. III ] 
नई दिल्ली , 17 अप्रैल, 1972 

S. S. SAHASRANAMAN, Under Secy . 
का० आ . 982. -- कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम 
1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा ( 1 ) की उपधारा ( 3 ) 

( श्रा और रोजगार विग) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा 

आदेश 
23 अप्रैल , 1972 को उस तारीख के रूप में नियत करती है जिसकी 

नई दिल्ली , 6 अप्रैल , 1972 
उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 4 ( धारा 44 और 45 के सिवाय जो 
पहले ही प्रवत्त की जा चुकी हैं ) और अध्याय 5 और 6 ( धारा 76 

का० प्रा० 983 - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि 
की उपधारा ( 1 ) और धारा 77, 78, 79 और 81 के सिवाय जो इममे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में एअर 
पहले ही प्रवृत्त की जा चकी हैं ) के उपबन्ध मैसूर राज्य के निम्न इण्डिया से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक 
लिखित भागों में प्रवृत्त होंगे , अर्थात : --- 

औद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 
क्रमांक जिला तालुक होब्ली 

गांव 

और यत केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन 
- - -- - --- - - - - 

के लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय समझती है ; 
1 . रायचुर, कोप्पल हिथानहल राजस्व होसाहाल्ली गांव 

अतः , अब, प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 
क्षेत्र 

फा 14 ) की धारा 10 की उपतारा ( 1 ) खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा 
2. रायचुर कोप्पल हिथानहल राजस्व टी० बी० प्रोजेक्ट मदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए. केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा 

क्षेत्र ; आनेवाला उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7- क के अधीन गठित 
मुनीराबाद 

प्रौद्योगिक प्रधिकरण , मुम्बई को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित 
3. रायचुर कोप्पल हिथानहल राजस्व होलेमुदलापुर गांव करती है । 
क्षेत्र 

अनुसूची 
[ संख्या फा० एस० - 38013( 8 ) 71- एच० आई० ] ( 1 ) प्रबन्धक - फ्लाइट इंजीनियरी, प्रबन्धक -- तकनीकी 
दलजीत सिंह, अवर सचिव । प्रशिक्षण मुसा टलाइट इंजीनियरों, मुख्य तकनीकी अनुदेशकों 

और तकनीकी अनुदेशकों के कर्नथ्यों , कृत्यों , उत्तरदायित्वों और 
(Department of Labour and Employment) 

प्रास्थिति का विचार करते हुए, क्या इन्डियन फ्लाइट इन्जीनियर्स 
ORDER 

एमोसियेशन का , उपरोक्त पदों के और संपरिवर्तन प्रशिक्षण और 
New Delhi, the 5th April 1972 

उससे प्रानुषंगिक विषयों के प्रयोजनों के लिए फ्लाइट इंजीनियरों 
S . O . 983.- - - Whereas the Central Government is of के पदों के धारकों को सामान्य परस्पर ज्येष्ठता सूची का दावा 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
cmployers in rclation to the Air India and their work न्यायोचित है ? 

en in respect of the matters specificd in the Sche 
dule hereto annexed ; 

( ॥ ) क्या मर्वश्री यू० महोत्रा और सी० एफ० मैथ्यूज 
And whereas the ( tral Government considers it 
desirable to refer the Sild dispute for adjudication ; की तकनीकी शानुदेशक और तत्पश्चात् मुख्य तकनीकी अनुदेशक 

Now , therefore in cxcrcise of the powers conferred के पदों पर नियुक्ति निगम द्वारा अधिकथित प्रोन्ननि प्रक्रिया के 
by clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the 


क्षत्र 


TAT 


SEC . ( ii ) ] THE GAZETT ! H INDIA : APRIL 22, 1972 /VAISAKHA 2 , 1894 

1553 
- - - - - - - .. - - - - - - - - - - - - ---- - - - - - - - - - - - 

--- -- - - - - -- - . - - . 
अधीन , समुचित और न्यायोचित है ? यदि नहीं , तो अन्य फ्लाइट 

MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS 
इंजीनियर जिन पर इसका प्रभाव पड़ा है किम अनुतोष के , यदि 

(P . & T . Board ) 
कोई हो , हकदार है ? 

New Delhi, the 14th April 1972 

S . O . 985 . - In pursuance of para ( a ) of Section III 
[ मं० एल०-- 110 11/ 7/ 72- एल० प्रार० HI ] of Rule 434 of Indian Telegraph Rules , 1951 , as intro 

duceci by S . O . No. 627 dated 8th March, 1960 , the 

Director General, Posts and Telegraphs, hereby 
एम० एम० महयनामन , अवर सचिय । 

specifics the 16 - 5 - 1972 as the date on which the 
Measured Rate System will be introduced in 

DHRANGADHRA Telephone Exchange, Gujarat Circle , 
MINISTRY OF STEEL AND MINES 

[ No . 5- 6/ 72 - PHB ( 12 ). 
( Department of Steel ) 

संचार विभाग 
Nerv Delhi , the 15th April , 1972 . 

( डाक - तार बोर्ड 
S . O . 984. In partical modification of the Notification of the 
Government of India , in the Minisiry of Steel and Mincs No. 
S . O . 2528 dated the 25th June , 1971 the followin [ critics undir 

नई दिल्ली, 14 अप्रैल , 1972 
Other after S . No . 78 may be added in the Sclheliule to the 
Notification of the Governtient of Indu , in the Ministry of Sicul. 

आदेश संख्या 985 . - -- स्थायी आदेश संख्या 627, दिनांक 
Alines | Heavy Engineering NO. 1525/1SS . COMM/ IRON 
AND SEEL 2 ( c ) dated the inth April , I06. 1. 

8 माच, 1960 द्वारा लागू किए गए भारतीय तार नियम 1951 

के नियम 434 के ब्रण्ड III के पैरा ( क ) के अनुसार डाक -तार 
3 . 

महानिदेशक ने ध्रांगधा टेलीफोन केन्द्र में दिनांक 16 - 5 - 72 से 

प्रमाणित दर प्रणाली लागू करने का निश्चय किया है । 
79. Regional Iron and Stecl Coll - All clauses of the Iron 
trollers . 

and Stool (Control ; 
Order . 

[ सं० 5 -6 / 72 -पी०एच०बी० ( 12 ) ] 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


_ _ - 


- 


10 , II , 12 , 22 , 23 , 24 . and 

28 


So . Deputy Regional Iron and 

Steel Controllers and Assis - 
tant Regional Iron and Steel 
Controller . 


- 


- - - -- 


- 


[ No. SC(TI-J71/ 71 ] 
A. N. RAJAGOPALAN, Dy. Secy . 
इस्पात और खान मंत्रालय 

( इस्पात विभाग 

नई दिल्ली, 15 अप्रैल, 1972 
एस० प्रा० 984 . - - भारत सरकार, इस्पात और खान 
मंत्रालय की दिनांक 25 जून , 1971 की अधिसूचना का० प्रा० 
2598 को आंशिक प्राशोधन करते हुए भारत सरकार , इस्पात 
खान और भारी इंजीनियरी की दिनांक 29 अप्रैल , 1964, की 
अधिसूचना संख्या 15 25/ मावश्यक वस्तु / लोहा और इस्पात 2 ( ग ) 
के परिशिष्ट के क्रम संख्या 78 के पश्चात् अन्य के अन्तर्गत निम्न 
लिखित प्रविष्टियां जोड़ दी जायें । 


S . O . 986. - --In pursuance of para ( a ) of Section III 
of Rule 434 of Indian Telegraph Rules , 1951, as intro 
duccd by S . O . No. 627 dated 8th March, 1960 , the 
Director General, Posts and Telegraphs, hereby 
specifies the 16 - 5 - 1972 as the date on which the 
Measured Rate System will be introduced in 
BARAMATI Telephone Exchange , Maharashtra Circle . 

[ No. 5 - 12 / 72 - PHB ( 6 ) .] 
प्रावेश संख्या 986. ---स्थायी आदेश एख्या 627, दिनाक 
8 मार्च, 1960 द्वारा लागू किये गये भारतीय तार नियम 1951 
के नियम 434 के खण्ड III के पैरा ( क ) के अनुसार डाक -तार 
महानि शक ने बारामती टेलीफोन केन्द्र में दिनांक 16 - 5 - 72 
से प्रमाणित दर प्रणाली लागू करने का निश्चय किया गया है । 


[ सं० 5- 12/ 72 - पी०एच०बी० ( 6) ] 


- - 


2 


3 


S . O . 987.- - In pursuance of para ( a ) of Section III 
of Rule 434 of Indian Telegraph Rules , 1951, As intro 
luced by S . O . No . 627 dated 8th March, 1960, the 
Director General, Posts and Telegraphs, hereby 
specifles the 16 - 5 - 1972 as the date on which the 
Measured Rate System will be introduced in 
AMBUR Telephone Exchange, Tamil Nadu, Circle. 

[ No. 5 - 30 / 72- PHB( 5 ) ] 
आवेश सध्या 987. - स्थायी आदेश संख्या 627, दिनांक 
8 मार्च, 1960 द्वारा लागू किये गये भारतीयतार नियम 1951 
के नियम 434 के खण्ड III के पैरा ( क ) के अनुसार डाक 
तार महानिदेशक ने आम्बूर टेलीफोन केन्द्र में दिनांक 16 - 5 - 72 
से प्रमाणित दर प्रणाली लागू करने का निश्चय किया है । 

[ सं० 5 - 30/ 72 -पी०एच० बी० ( 5 ) ] 


79 क्षेत्रीय लोहा और इम्पात नियंत्रक लोहा और इस्पात 

( नियंत्रक ) आदेश 

की सभी धाराएं 
. 80 क्षेत्रीय लोहा और इस्पात उप- 10, 11 , 12, 22, 

नियंत्रक और क्षेत्रीय लोहा 23, 24 और 28 
और इस्पात सह यक नियंत्रक 


[ सं० एम० सी० ( 1 ) - 1 ( 7)/ 71 ] 
ए० एन० राजगोपालन, अवर सचित्र । 


S. . 988. --In pursuance of para_ ( a ) of Section III 
of Rule 434 of Indian Telegraph Rules , 1951 , as intro 
duced by S . O . No. 627 dated 8th March, 1960, the 
Director General, Posts and Telcgraphs, hereby 
specifics the 16 - 5 - 1972 as the date on which the 
Measured Rate System will be introduced in 


1554 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 22, 1972 /VAISAKHA 2, 1894 


[ PART II -- 


- - - - - - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


MANNARGUDI Telephone Exchange, Tamil Nadu 
Circle. 

[ No. 5 - 30 / 72 - PHB( 6 ) . ] 
प्रावेश संख्या 98 8 , - - स्थायी आदेश संख्या 627, दिनांक 
8 मार्च, 1960 द्वारा लाग किये गये भारतीय तार नियम 1951 
के नियम 434 के खण्ड iii के पैरा ( क ) के अनुसार डाक 
तार महानिदेशक ने मनारगुडी टेलीफोन केन्द्र, में दिनांक 16 - 5 - 72 
से प्रमाणित दर प्रणाली लागू करने का निश्चय किया है । 

[ संख्या 5 - 30/ 72 -पी०एच बी० ( 6 ) ] 
S . O . 989 . — In pursuance of para ( a ) of Section III 
of Rule 434 of Indian Telegraph Rules , 1951 , as intro 
duced by S . O . No . 627 dated 8th March, 1960 , the 
Director General , Posts and Telegraphs, hereby 
specifies the 16 - 5 - 1972 as the date on which the 
Measured Rate System will be introduced in 
BHUVANAGIRI SAX Telephone Exchange , Tamil 
Nadu Circle connected to Chidambaram Exchange, 

[ No . 5- 30 / 72 - PHB( 7 ). ] 
___ H . C . MATHUR, 

Director of Phones ( E ) . 
एस० प्रा० स्य यी मादेश संख्या 98 9.--- - स्थायी प्रादेश संख्या 
627, दिनांक 8 मार्च, 1960 द्वारा लागू किए गए भारतीय 
तार नियम 195 1 के नियम 434 के ग्वण्ड iii के पैरा ( क ) के 
अनुसार डाक -तार महानिदेशक ने चिदम्बरम् एक्सचेंज से सम्बद्ध 
समिलनाडु सर्कल के भुवनगिरि लघु स्वचल एक्सचेंज में दिनांक 
16 - 5 - 72 से प्रमाणित दर प्रणाली लागू करने का निश्चय 
किया है । 


rules shall continue to apply to such clvillan 
Government servant in the Defence Services 
and , tor the purpose of discipline , he shall be 
dealt with under these rules unless the appro 
priate authority , for reasons to be recorded 
in writing , is of the opinion that sterner Action 
is called for and directs that he be dealt with 
under the Act he is subject to ." . 

[ No. F . 7 /6 / 72 - Ests ( A ).] 

S . KRISHNAN, Dy . Secy . 
मंत्रिमंडल सविधालय 

( कार्मिक विभाग ) 

नईदिल्ली , 5 अप्रैल, 1972 
का० प्रा० 990 - राष्ट्रपति , संविधान के अनुच्छेद 309 के 
परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय मविल 
सेवा (वर्गीकरण, नियंत्रण और अपील ) नियम , 1965 में और 
आगे संशोधन करने के लिए निम्नलिखित नियम एतद्वारा बनाते 
है, अर्थात् : - - 


1. ( 1 ) इन नियमों का नाम केन्द्रीय सिविल सेवा (वर्गी 

करण ,नियंत्रण और अपोल ) प्रथम मंशोधन नियम 

1972 होगा । 
( 2 ) ये राजपत्र में प्रकाशन की तारीख को प्रवत्स होंगे 

और 3 दिसम्बर. 1971 को संविधान के अनुच्छेद 
352 के खंड ( 1 ) के अधीन जारी की गई उद् 
घोषणा के प्रवर्तन की अवधि के दौरान प्रवृत्त 
रहेंगे । 


[ संख्या 5 - 30/ 72/पी० एच० बी० - ( 7 ) ] 

एच० सी० माथुर , 
निदेशक फोन ( ई ) । 


CABINET SECRETARIAT 

(Department of Personnel ) 

New Delhi , the 5th April , 1972 
S . O . 990 . ....In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the proviso to article 309 of the Constitution , the Pre 
sident thereby makes the following rules further to 
amend the Central Civil Seryices ( Classification , Con 
trol and Appeal) Rules, 1965 , namely : 

1 ( 1 ) These rules may be called the Central Civil 
Services (Classification , Control and Appeal) First 
Amendment Rules, 1972 . 

( 2 ) They shall come into froce on the date of their 
publication in the Official Gazette and shall remain 
inforce during the period of operation of the Procla 
mation issucd under clause ( 1 ) of article 352 of the 
Constitution on the 3rd day of December , 1971, 

2. In the Central Civil Services ( Classification, Con 
trol and Appeal ) Rules, 1965 , after sub - rule ( 3 ) of 
rule 3 , the following sub - rule shall be inserted , name 
ly : 
" ( 3A ) Notwithstanding anything contained in 

these rules, where any civil Government ser 
vant in the Defence Services ts temporarily 

made subject to the Army Act, 1950 ( 46 of 
1950 ) , or the Navy Act , 1957 ( 62 of 1957 ) , or 
the Air Force Act, 1860 ( 45 of 1950 ) , these 


2 . केन्द्रीय सिविल सेवा ( वर्गीकरण , नियंत्रण और अपील ) 
नियम , 1965 में , नियम 3 के उप -नियम ( 3 ) के पश्चात् 
निम्नलिखित उप -निमियम अंतःस्थापित किया जाएगा , अर्थात् : -- - 
" ( 3 % ) इन नियमों में अंन्नविष्ट किसी बात के होते हुए , 

भी जहाँ रक्षा सेवानों के किसी सिविलियन सर 
कारी सेवक को सेना अधिनियम , 1950 ( 1950 
का 46 ) , या नौसेना अधिनियम , 1957 ( 1957 
का 62 ) , या वायु सेना अधिनियम 1950 ( 1950 
का 45 ) के अधीन अस्थायी रूप से किया गया है , 
वहां ये नियम रक्षा सेवाओं के ऐसे सिविलियन 
सरकारो सेवक को लागू रहेंगे और अनुशासन के 
प्रयोजन के लिए जब तक लेखबद्ध कारणों के 
लिए समुचित प्राधिकारो की यह राय न हो कि 
कठोरतर कार्रवाई श्रावयश्क है और यह निदेश 
नहीं देता कि जिस अधिनियम के अधीन वह है उसके 
प्रधोन उससे बरता जाए , इन नियमों के अधीन 
सब तक उससे बरता जाएगा । " 


[ सं० - 7/ 6/ 72/ स्थापना ( क ) ] 

एस० कृष्णन , उप सचिव । 


SEC . 3 (11 ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 22 , 1972 /VAISAKHA 2 , 1894 


1555 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


respective jurisdiction in respect of the public pre 
mises specified in column ( 2 ) of the said Table . 

THE TABLE 


( 1 ) 


Designation of the Officer 


Cat gries of Public premises and 
local limits of jurisdiction , 


MINISTRY OF WORKS AND HOUSING 

(Directorate of Estates ) 

New Delhi, the 22nd March 1972 
$ . 0 . 991. - In pursuance of the provisions of rule 
45 of the Fundamental Ruleg, the President hereby 
makes the following rules further to amend the Allot 
ment of Government Residences (General Pool in 
Delhi ) Rules, 1963 , contained in Part VIII, Division 
XXVI- B of the Supplementary Rules issued with the 
Government of India , Finance Department letter No, 
104 - CSR dated the 4th February , 1922 , namely : 

1 . ( 1 ) These rules may be called the Allotment of 
Government Residences (General Pool in Delhi) Third 
Amendment Rules, 1972 . 

( 2 ) They shall come into force at once. 
2 . In the Allotment of Government Residences 
(General Pool in Delhi) Rules , 1963 , in rule 317- B - 6 , 
in sub - rule ( 1 ) the word " annual " shall be omitted . 

|No. F . 12033 ( 2 ) / 72- Pol( II ).] 

R . B . SAXENA 
Dy . Director of Estates ( Policy ) . 
निर्माण और प्रायास मंत्रालय 

सभ्पषा निदेशालय 

these fereaft, 22 HTT, 1972 
To 870 991 - - Tufa , ferait # farah 
45 के उपबन्धों के अनुसरण में भारत सरकार के वित्त विभाग 
# HO 104 Too Faro arte 4 4a , 1922 
साथ जारी किए गए अनुपूरक नियमों के भाग 8 - प्रभाग 26- ख 
में अन्तविष्ट , सरकारी निवास स्थान आवंटन (दिल्ली में साधारण 
gan ) fa48 ,* 1963 # UTE FATTET Fy farfafaa 
f .44 ad , FT :- - 

1. ( 1 ) # far # 4TH CATATT FYTT HETT ( Facest 
À HTETUT ET) TATA TATTET AUA , 1972 T UT TI 

( 2 ) # aftar ENTI 
2. मरकारी निवास स्थान आवंटन (दिल्ली में साधारण 

) FRAH , 1963 # , faruh 317 – - 6 Å , 34 frue ( 1 ) 
# , " aifu " yana qar E HII 

[ spo 7TO 12033 ( 2 )/ 72 — ifa - 2 ] 


I , Assistant Registrer Premises belonging to or taken 

Indian Institute of on lease or requisitioned by, or 
Technology , Kanpur. on behalf of the Invian Institute 

of Technology , Kanpur, which 
are under its administrative 

control in Kanpur District, 
2 . Executive Engineer , Premises belonging to or taken on 

Intian Institute of leage os requisitioned by, or 
Technology ,Madras , on hehalf of the Indian Institute 

of Technology , Madras , which 
atc under its alministrative cont 

rol in Madras District , 
3 . Institute Engncer, Prcinises helonging to or taken 

In lian Institute of on lease or requisitioned by , or 
Technology , Bombay . on behalf of the Indian Institute 

of Technology , Bombay , which 

10 under its administrative cont 

rol in Bombay District. 
4 . Executive Engineer , Premises belonging to or taken 

Indian Institute of on lease or requisitioned by, or 
Technology , Kharag on behalf of the Indian Institute 
pur . 

of Technology , Kharagpur, 
which are under its adminis 
trative control in Midnaporo 
District , 


5. Town Administrator / 
Manager Sub - contracts 
Estate Officer , Hin 
dustan Machine Tools 
Limited, I II 
Machine Tool Tac 
1ories Estatr , Bangi 

lore - 31. 
6 . Superintendent Plant / 

Estate Officer , Tlin 
distan Machine Tools 
Limited , III Machine 
Tool Factory Estate , 
Pinjorc , District Am 

bala , (Haryana State ), 
7 . Extate Officer , Hin - Public Premisch owned or ac 

Just ın Machine Tools quired or hired by the Hindus 
Limited , IV Machine tan Machine Tools Limited 
Tool Factory Estate , which are under their reg 
Kylamassery , (Kerala peciive administrative control, 

State ) . 
8 . Town Administrator / 

Estate Officer , Hindus 
tan Machine Tools 
Limited, V . Machine ) 

l ool Factory Estate , 
Ralanagar Township , 

Hyterabad - 37. 
9 . Personnel Manager ! 

Personnel Officer , Hi 
dustan Machine Tools 
Limited , J & II Watch 
Factories Estatc , 

Bangalore - 31. 
10 , Personnel Miniger ! 

Personnel Officer , Hin 
Histan Machinc Tools 
Limited , III Watch 
Factory Estate , Zaina 
kote ( Sringar - Barsmu1112 
Highway ) , Srinagur 
( J & K ) , 


राम बहादुर सक्सेना, 
सम्पदा उप निदेशक ( नीति ) । 


(Directorate of Estates ) 

New Delhi, the 15th April 1972 
S .O , 992 . - In exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 3 of the Public Premises ( Eviction of Un 
authorised Occupants ) Act, 1971 ( 40 of 1971 ) , the 
Central Government hereby appoints the officers men 
tioned in column ( 1 ) of the Table below , being the 
officer s equivalent to the rank of gazetted officers of 
Government to be estate officers for the purposes of 
the said Act , who shall exercise the powers confcrred , 
and perform the duties imposed , on estate officers by 
or under the said Act within the local limits of their 


HTT 


1556 


[ PART II 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 22, 1972 / VAISAKHA 2, 1894 


- - - 


- - - - 


- 


-- - - - 


- - , 


- 


- - . - - - - - - 


- 


- - - -- -- - - 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


( I ) 


( 2 ) 


सारणी 


अधिकारी का पदावधान 


लोक परिमरों के प्रवर्ग और 
अधिकारिता की स्थानीय सीमाएं 


TI , Finance and Develon - Promises holonging to or taken 

ment Officer , Punjab on lCase by and under the add 
University , Chandigarh. ministrative cool of the 

Punjab University , Chandigarh , 
situate, within the revenue 
limits of Chandigarh jistrict . 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


12. Regional Director , Public premiscs owned or acouired 

Employee , State Trşu or hired by the Fymployees 
rance , Corporation, State Insurance Corporation 
West Bengal Region , and which are the limits of 11 .0 
Calcutta . 

State of West Bengal, 


13. Regional Director , Public premises owned or acquired 

Employeex State Ingu - of lured by the Employcey 
fance Corporation , State Insurance Corporation 
Uttar Prucsh Region , unel which are under his wi 
Kanpur . 

ministrative control within the 
limits of the Stute of Utirir 
Pradeshi . 


1. सहायक रजिस्ट्रार , भारतीय प्रौद्योगिकी संस्थान , 
भारतीय प्रौद्योगिकी कानपुर के या उसके द्वारा , या 
संस्थान , कानपुर । उसकी ओर से पट्टे पर लिए गए 

या अधिग्रहीन परिसर जो 
कानपुर जिले में उसके प्रशास 
निक नियंत्रण में हैं । 


14 . Medical Superinten - Public premises owned IT ICurios 

Acnt , Emolovees State or hired by the Employecs State 
Insurance Hospital & Instirance Corporation and 
Director ( Medical ) which are under his adminis 
Employees State Ingu trative control within the limits 
rancescheme, Delhi, of the Union Territory of Delhi 

( for the quarters allotted by 
the Medical Superintendent, 
Employees State Insurance 
Hospital and Director (Medi 
cal ) Employees State Insu 
rance Scheme, Delhi). 


2. कार्यपालक इंजीनियर , भारतीय प्रौद्योगिकी संस्थान , 
भारतीय प्रौद्योगिकी मदास के या उसके द्वारा , या 
संस्थान, मद्रास । । उसकी ओर से पट्टे पर लिए गए 

या अधिगृहीत परिसर जो मद्रास 
जिले में उसके प्रशासनिक 
नियंत्रण में हैं । 


15 . Administrative Officer Public premises nwned or acquired 

Employees State of hired hy the Enploycego State 
Insurance Corporation ( 17€urance Corp Balicnana which 
Dellii . 

are under his administrative 
control within the limit of 
Union Territory of Delhi ( for 
quarters nilotted by the Admi 
nistrative officer ) . 


3. संस्थान , इंजीनियर , भारतीय प्रौद्योगिकी संस्थान , 
भारतीय प्रौद्योगिकी बम्बई के या उसके द्वारा, या 
संस्थान , बम्बई । उसकी अोर से पट्टे पर लिए गए 

या अधिगृहीत परिसर जो 
बम्बई जिले में उसके प्रशास 
निक नियंत्रण में है । 


[ No. F . 2101215 ) / 07 - POI . IV. 1 


4. कार्यपालक इजीनियर , भारतीय प्रौद्योगिकी संस्थान , 

भारतीय प्रौद्योगिकी खड़गपुर के या उसके द्वारा , या 
मंस्थान , खड़गपुर । उसको अोर से पट्टे पर लिए गए 

या अधिगृहीत परिसर जो 
मिदनापुरजिले में उसके प्रशम . 
निक नियंत्रण में हैं । 


( सम्पदा निदेशालय ) 


नई दिल्ली , 15 अप्रैल , 1972 


का० प्रा० 992. - - लोक परिसर ( अप्राधिनात अधि 
भोगियों की बेदखली ) अधिनियम , 1971 ( 1971 का 40 ) की 
धारा 3 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार , 
नीचे की मारणी के स्तम्भ ( 1 ) में वर्णित अधिकारियों को , जो 
सरकार के राजपत्रित अधिकारियों की रैक के समतुल्य अधिकारी 
हैं , उक्त अधिनियम के प्रयोजनों के लिए सम्पदा अधिकारियों के 
रूप में एतद्वारा नियुक्त करती है, जो उक्त सारणी के स्तम्भ ( 2 ) 
में विनिर्दिष्ट लोक परिमरों के बारे में , अपनी अपनी अधिकारिता 
की स्थानीय सीमाओं के भीतर उक्त अधिनियम द्वारा या उसके 
अधीन सम्पदा अधिकारियों को , प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करेंगे 
और उन पर अधिरोपित कर्तव्यों का पालन करेंगे । 


5. नगर प्रशासक / उप संविदा ) 
प्रबन्धक सम्पदा अधि- ) 
कारी, हिन्दुस्तान मशीन ) 
टूल्स लिमिटेड , 1 और 2 ) 
मशीन टूल फैक्ट्रीज ऐस्टेट , ) 

बंगलोर - 31 । 
6 संयंत्र अधीक्षक / सम्पदा ) 

अधिकारी, हिन्दुस्तान ) 
मशीन टूल्स लिमिटेड , ) 
मशीन टूल फैक्ट्री ऐस्टेट , ) 
पिजौर, जिला अम्बाला , ) 
( हरयाणा राज्य ) । ) 


SEC . 3 (11) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 22, 1972 / VAISAKHA 2 , 1894 


1557 


- . ..- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 2 ) 
7. सम्पदा अधिकारी, । ऐसे लोक परिसर जिन पर 

हिन्दुस्तान मशीन टूल्स हिन्दुस्तान मशीन टूल्स लिमि 
लिमिटेड , 4 मशीन टूल टेड का स्वामित्व है या उसके 
फैक्ट्री एस्टेट काला द्वारा जिन्हें अजित किया गया 
मसेरी ( केरल राज्य ) है या किराये पर लिया गया है , 
8 . नगर प्रशासक सम्पदा और जो उनके अपने अपने 

अधिकारी , हिन्दुस्तान प्रशासनिक नियंत्रण में हैं । 
मशीन टूल्स लिमिटेड, 

5 मशीन टूल 
फैक्ट्री एस्टेट , बालानगर 

कस्बा, हैदराबाद -- 37. 
9 . कार्मिक प्रबन्धक कार्मिक 

अधिकारी , हिन्दुस्तान 
मशीन टूल्स लिमिटेड , 
1 और 2 वाच फैक्ट्रीज 

एस्टेट, बंगलौर - 31. 
10. कार्मिक प्रबन्धक कार्मिक 

अधिकारी , हिन्दुस्तान 
मशीन टूल्स लिमिटेड, 
3 वाच फैक्ट्री एस्टेट , 
जैनकोटे ( श्रीनगर 
बारामुल्ला राजमार्ग ) , 
श्रीनगर ( जम्मू और । 

कश्मीर ) । 
11. वित्त और विकास अधि - पंजाब विश्वविद्यालय , चंडीगढ़ के 

कारी , पंजाब विश्व - या उसके द्वारा पट्टे पर लिए गए 
विद्यालय , चंडीगढ़ और उसके प्रशासनिक नियंत्रणा 

धीन परिसर और जो चंडीगढ़ 
जिले की राजस्व सीमानों के 

भीतर स्थित हैं । 
12. क्षेत्रीय निदेशक , कर्म - ऐसे लोक परिसर जिन पर कर्म 

चारी राज्य बीमा निगम , चारी राज्य बीमा निगम का 
पश्चिमी बंगाल क्षेत्र , स्वामित्व है या जिन्हें उसके 
कलकत्ता 

द्वारा अजित किया गया है या 
किराये पर लिया गया है और 
जो पश्चिमी बंगाल राज्य की 

सीमानों के भीतर हैं । 
13. क्षेत्रीच निदेशक , कर्म - ऐसे लोक परिसर जिन पर कर्म 

चारी राज्य बीमा निगम , चारी राज्य बीमा निगम का 
उत्तर प्रदेश क्षेत्र , स्वामित्व है या जिन्हें उसके द्वारा 
कानपुर । 

अजित किया गया है या किराए 
पर लिया गया है और जो उत्तर 
प्रदेश राज्य की सीमानों के 
भीतर उसके प्रशासनिक नियंत्रण 


14. चिकित्सक अधीक्षक , ऐसे लोक परिसर जिन पर कर्म 

कर्मचारी गज्य बीमा चारी राज्य बीमा निगम का 
अस्पताल और निदेशक स्वामित्व है या जिन्हें उसके 
( चिकित्सक ), कर्मचारी द्वारा अर्जित किया गया है या 
गज्य बीमा स्कीम, दिल्ली । किराए पर लिया गया है और 

जो दिल्ली संघ राज्यक्षेत्र की 
सीमाओं के भीतर उसके प्रशास 
निक नियंत्रण में हैं ( उन 
तिमाहियों के लिए जो चिकित्सक 
अधीक्षक , कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा 
अस्पताल और निदेशक 
( चिकित्सक ) कर्मचारी राज्य 
बीमा स्कीम , दिल्ली द्वारा 

आबंटित की गई हों ) । 
15. प्रशासन अधिकारी , ऐसे लोक परिसर जिन पर 

कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा निगम का 
निगम , दिल्ली । स्वामित्व है या जिन्हें उस 

द्वारा अजित किया गया है या 
किराए पर लिया गया है और 
जो दिल्ली संघ राज्यक्षेत्र की 
सीमाओं के भीतर उसके प्रशास 
निक नियंत्रण में हैं ( उन 
तिमाहियों के लिए जो प्रशास 
निक अधिकारी द्वारा आबंटित 
की ई हों ) । 


[ नं० फा० 21012 ( 5 ) / 67 - नीति - 4 ] 
S. O . 993.-- -In exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 3 of the Public Premises ( Eviction of Un 
authorised Occupants ) Act, 1871 ( 40 of 1971 ) , the 
Central Government hereby appoints the officer men 
tioned in column ( 1) of the table below , being gazetted 
officer of Government to be estate officer for the pur 
poses of the said Act , and the said officer shall exer 
cise the powers conferred and perform the duties im 
posed on estate officer by or under the said Act, with 
in the local limits of his jurisdiction in respect of the 
public premises specified in the corresponding entry 
in column ( 2 ) of the said Table . 

THE TABLE 


( I ) 


( 2 ) 


Special Director of Premiscy belonging to or taken in 

Inspection , Director- lease or requisitioned by or on 
rate of Supplies And hehalf of, the Central Government 
Disposals , CAL falling within the territorial juris 
CUTTA. 

diction of Kulti P . S . Sub -Regis 
try Asansol and Court District 
Burdwan and which are under 
his adtrinistrative control, 


[ No, F . I011 ( 4 ), 66- Pol . I . J 

P . N . KHANNAH , 
Deputy Director of Estates and Ex - Officio Under Secy . 


1558 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 22, 1972 / VAISAKHA 2 , 1894 

[ PART 11 

- - . . 
का० प्रा० 993. - लोक परिसर ( अप्राधिकृत अधिभोगियों 

residence shall stand cancelled with effect 

from 
की बेदखली ) अधिनियम , 1971 ( 1971 का 40 ) की धारा 3 

( 1 ) one month after the date of his removal 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार, नीचे की 

or dismissal or retirement or resignation , 

as the case may be ; or 
सारणी के स्तम्भ ( 1 ) में , बणित अधिकारी को , जो सरकार का 

( 11 ) with effect from two months from the date 
राजपत्रित अधिकारी है, उक्त अधिनियम के प्रयोजनों के लिए 

of his absence from duty ; or 

( iii) with effect from the date on which the 
सम्पदा अधिकारी के रूप में एतद्द्वारा नियुक्त करती है, और 

residence is vacated , 
उक्त अधिकारी उक्त सारणी के स्तम्भ ( 2 ) में की तत्स्थानी 

whichever is earlier ." 
प्रविष्टि में विनिर्दिष्ट लोक परिसरों के बारे में , अपनी अधिकारिता 

[ No. 54 / 3 / 69 - ESII. ] 

S . S . KSHETRY, Under Secy. 
की स्थानीय सीमा के भीतर, उक्त अधिनियम द्वारा या उसके 
अधीन सम्पदा अधिकारी को प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करेगा और 

पूप्ति विभाग 
उस पर अधिरोपित कर्तव्यों का पालन करेगा । 

नई दिल्ली , 24 फरवरी , 1972 

एस०प्रो० 994. - राष्ट्रपति , मूलभूत नियमों के नियम 45 के 
सारणी 

अनसरण में , एतत्वारा पूर्ति और निपटान महानिदेशालय ( टाटानगर , 
अमगेदपुर , बर्नपुर तथा कुल्टी के निरीक्षण कार्यालयों के कर्मचारियों 

के लिए सरकारी प्रावासो का आवंटन ) नियम, 1966 में , और आगे 
विशेष निरीक्षण -निदेशक , केन्द्रीय सरकार के या उसके द्वारा , संशोधन करने के लिए, निम्नलिखित नियम बनाते हैं , अर्थात् : 
पूर्ति पर निपटान या उसकी अोर से पट्टे पर लिए 

1. ( 1 ) ये नियम पूर्ति और निपटान महानिदेशालय 
निदेशालय , कलकत्ता । गए या अधिगृहीत परिसर जो 

( टाटानगर , जमशेदपुर , - बर्नपुर तथा कुल्टी के 
कुल्टी पी० एस० सब 

निरीक्षण कार्यालयों के कर्मचारियों के लिए सरकारी 
रजिस्ट्री , आसनसोल और 

प्रावासों का आवंटन ) संशोधन नियम , 1972 
जिला न्यायालय बर्दवान की 

कहे जा सकेंगे । 
प्रादेशिक अधिकारिता के 

( 2 ) ये शासकीय राजपत्र में अपने प्रकाशन की 
अन्तर्गत पाते हैं और जो उसके 

तारीख से प्रवृत्त हो जाएंगे । 
प्रशासनिक नियंत्रण में हैं । 

2 . पूर्ति और निपटान महानिदेशालय ( टाटानगर, जमशेदपुर , 
[ सं० फा० 21011 ( 47 ) - 66 -मोल . II ] 

बर्नपुर तथा कुल्टी के निरीक्षण कार्यालयों के कर्मचारियों के लिए 

सरकारी प्रावासों का आवंटन ) नियम , 1966 के एस०पार० 
पी० एन० खन्ना , 

317 - मार -- 17 में , उप नियम ( 1 ) के लिए , निम्नलिखित 
उप सम्पदा-निदेशक और पदेन अवर सचिव । 

उप नियम प्रति थापित किया जाएगा , अर्थात् : --- 

" ( 1 ) यदि कोई अधिकारी जिसे प्रावास का आवंटन किया 
DEPARTMENT OF SUPPLY 

जाता है , सेवा से हटा दिया जाता है अथवा पदच्युत 
New Delhi, the 24th February 1972 

हो जाता है अथवा सेवा निवृत हो जाता है अथवा 
S .O . 994 . - In pursuance of rule 45 of the Funda 

त्यागपत्र दे देता है अथवा बिना अनुमति के 
mental Rules, the President hereby makes the follow 
ing rules further to amend the Directorate General of 

गैरहाजिर होता है तो उसे किया गया प्रावास का 
Supplies and Disposals (Allotment of Government 
residences for employees of Inspection Offices at Tata 

आवंटन निम्नानुसार रद्द समझा जायेगा : - - 
nagar, Jamshedpur, Burnpur and Kulti ) Rules , 1966 , 
namely : 

( i) सेवा से हटाये जाने अथवा पदच्युत होजाने अथवा 
1. ( 1) These rules may be called the Directorate 

सेवा निवृत्त हो जाने अथवा त्यागपन्न देने , 
General of Supplies and Disposals ( Allotment of Goy 
ernment residences for employees of Inspection Offices 

जैसी भी स्थिति हो , की तारीख से एक महीने 
at Tatanagar, Jamshedpur, Burnpur and Kulti ) Am 
endment Rules, 1972 . 

पश्चात ; अथवा 
( 2 ) They shall come into force on the date of their 

( ii ) अपनी ड्यूटी से गैरहाजिर होने की तारीख से 
publication in the Official Gazette . 

दो महीने बाद ; अथवा 
2 . In S. R . 317 - R - 17 of the Directorate General of 
Supplies and Disposals ( Allotment of Government 

( iii ) उस तारीख से जिस तारीख को आवास खाली 
residences for employees of Inspection Offices at Tata 
nagar , Jamshedpur, Burnpur and Kulti ) Rules , 1966 , 

किया जाता है 
for sub - rule ( 1 ), the following sub - rule shall be subs 
tituted , namely : 

जो भी पहले हो । ” 
( 1 ) the officer to whom a residence is allotted 
is removed , or dismissed , or retires , or re 

[ संख्या 54/ 3/ 69 -स्थापना - 2 ] 
signs, or absents himself without permission , 
from service , the allotment to him of the 

शिव शंकर खन्नी , अवर सचिव । 


Sec. 3 ( il ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 22 , 1972 / VAISAKHA 2 , 1894 

1559 
- - - - - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

विदेश मंत्रालय 
New Delhi, the 23rd February 1972 

The facit, 23 4246 , 1972 
S .O . 995. — In pursuance of clause (a ) of section एस०पी० 995: - राजनयिक एवं कोंसली अधिकारी ( शपथ 
2 of the Diplomatic and Consular Oncers (Oaths and 

ve T + ) ufufrun , 1948 # Aug - 2 47 ETT ( * ) * 
Fees ) Act, 1948, the Central Government hereby 
authorises Shri K . R . Kukrcja , Assistant in the 

मनुसरण में , केन्द्रीय सरकार, भारत के राजदूतावास , बहरीन में 
Embassy of India , Bahrain , to perform duties of a सहायक श्री के० प्रार० कुकरेजा को 3 फरवरी , 1972 से, बहरीन 
Consular Agent with effect from the 3rd February , में कार्यदूत श्री एस० एन० शर्मा के गृह अवकाश से लौटने की तारीख 
1972 until the date of return of Shri S . N . Sharma, 

तक , कौंसली एजेन्ट का कार्य करने के लिये प्राधिकृत करती 
Charge d Affairs to Bahrain from home leaye . 


[No. T 4330 / 3 /72.] 


[ rten o 4330 / 3 /72 ] 
प्रमोद कुमार, अवर सचिव ( कौंसली ) । 


PRAMOD KUMAR , Under Secy. ( Consular). 


MINISTRY OF STEEL AND MINES (ISPAT AUR KHAN MANTRALAYA ) 

Department of Mines (Khan Vibhag ) 

Nero Delhi, the 25th March 1972 
S . O . 996 . - Whereas by the notification of the Government of India in the Ispit Aur Khan Mintrlaaya (Khan Vibhag ) No : 
S . O . 2310 dated the 17th June , 1971 , issued under sub - section ( i ) of Section 7 ofthe Coal Beating Areas ( Acquisition and Development) 
Act , 1957 ( 20 of 1957 ), the CentralGovernment gave notice of its intention to acquire lands in the locality specified in the schedule ap 
Pended to that notification ; 

And whereas the competent authority in pursuance of section 8 of the said Act has made his report to the Central 
Government; 

And whereas the CentralGovernment after considering the report aforesaid and after consulting the Government of Madhya 
Pradesh 18 satisfied that the landa measuring 106 . 12 acres ( approximately ) or 42 .94 hectares ( approximately ), described in the schedule 
appended hereto should be acquired . 

NOW , THEREFORE , in cxercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1) of section 9 of the said Act, the Central Govern 
ment hereby declares that the lands neaşuring 106 12 acres (approximately ) or 42 . 94 hectares ( approximately described in the said sche 
dulc should not be acquired . 

2 . The plans of the area covered by this notification may be inspected in the Office of the Collector , Sidhi, (Madhya Pradesh ), 
or in the Office of the Coal Controller , I , Council House Street , Calcutta or in the Office of the National CoalDevelopment Corporation 
Limited (Revenue Section ) , Darbhanga House , Ranchi 


har ) . 


SCHEDULE 
GORBI BLOCK EXTENSION 

(SingrauliCoalfield ) 
(Madhya Pradesh ) 


Drawing No. Rev./45 /71 
Dated 13 - 9 - 1971. 
(Showing lands acquired ) 


SUB BLOCK - I 


ALL RIGHTS 


S . No. 


Village 


Tahsil 


District 


Area 


Tahsil 
number 


Area 


Remarks 


Gorli 


, 


, 


Deogar . 


. 


. 


. 


Sidhi 


Part 


Total Area : 17 : 50 acres (Approximately ) 

or ; 7 08 hectares (Approximately ) 


Plot numbers acquired in village Gorbi : 

87 ( P ), 94 ( P ), 95 (P ) , 96 ( T ), 97 ( P ) , 99 (P ), 192 ( ), 131 (P ) , 140 (P ) , 141 (P ), 142 ( P ), 153 ( P ) , 154 ( P ) , 155 (P ), 157 (P ) , 158 (P ) , 159P ), 
161 (P ), 102 (1 ) , 168 (P ), 169 ( P ) , 170P) , 171 ( P ), 172P ), 173CP ) , 174CP ) , 175CP ) , 176CP ), 177 ( P ) , 178 ( P ) , 182 (P ), 183 ( P ) , 367 ( P ), 406 ( P ), 
407 ( P ) , 408 ( P ) , and 109CP ) . 


1560 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 22 , 1972 /VAISAKHA 2 , 1894 


[PART II -- 


BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION . 

7 - 8. Line passes through plot numberg 87, 94 , 96 , 97, 96 , 102 , 95 , 153, 154 , 183, 182 , 178, 177 , 176, 175, 174 , 173, 171, 170 , 168 
140 , 408 , 141, 407, 131, 409 , 131 & 367 in village Gorbi and meets at point 8 * . 

8 -9- 10 . Lines pass through plot numbers 367, 131 , 409, 141, 142 , 406, 140, 168 , 170 , 169 , 172 173, 174 , 162 , 161, 159 , 158, 1573 
155 , 153 , 95 , 102, 96 , 99 , 96 , 97, 94 and 87 in village Gorbi and meets at point 10 . 

10 -7 . Line paggeg along the common boundary ofGorbi Block acquired under section 9 (1 ) of Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and 
Development) Act, 1957 and meetg at point 7 . 

SUB - BLOCK II 
ALL RIGHTS 


S . No. 


Village 


Tahgil 


Tahsil 
number 


District 


Arca 


Area 


Remarks 


1. 


Naurhia , 


. 


, Deogar . 


. 


. 


. 


Sidhi 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Part 


Total Area : 88 . 50 acres ( approximately) 

or : 35 . 81 hectares ( approximately ) 


Plot numbers acquired in village Naurhia : 

106 ( P ), 107 (T ), 108(P ), 109 (P ), 110 (P ), 111(P ), 112 (P ) , 113, 114 , 115 , 116 , 117 (P ), 118 (P ) , 119 , 120 , 121( P ) & 124(P ). 


BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION : 

1 -2 . Line passes through plot numberg 107 & 106 in village Naurhia (i.c. along the part southern boundary of Railway acquired 
land), 

2 - 3 -4 - 5 -. Lines pass through plot numberg 106 , 121 & 124 in village Nauriha and meet at point g . 
3 -6 . Line passes through plot numberg 124 , 117 , 118 , 117 & 110 in village Nauriha and mects at point 6 . 
6 - 1. Line passes through plot numbers 110 , 111, 110 , 112 , 109, 108 and 107 in village Naurhia and meets at point l . 

SUB - BLOCK - III 
ALL RIGHTS 


S1.No. 


Village 


Tahgil 


Tahsil 
number 


District 


Area 


Remarks 


1. 


Gorbi 


. 


. 


. Dengar . 


. 


. 


Sidhi 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Part . 


1 


Total Area : 0 12 acres ( approximately ) 

Or 0 


5 hectares ( approximately ) 


3 


Plot Numbers acquired in village Gorbi: 

367( P ) and 366 ( P ) . 
MUNDARY DESCRIPTION : 

II - 12 - 13. Linęs pass through plot numbers 367 & 366 in village Gorbi and meet at point 13 . 
13 - 11. Line passes through plot numberg 366 & 367 in village Gorbi and meets at point ii . 

[No , F . 1( 17 )/ 71 - C 3 ] 

K . SUBRAHMANYAN , Under Secy. 
इस्पात और खान मंत्रालय 

( wta fer - TT ) 
faceft, 25 477, 1972 


To to 996 . — 15 : Fantaret (759 ut fath ) ufufra, 1957 ( 1957 47 20 ) i ERT 7 at JTERT ( 1 ) 
e 

a 477 que at T FEM (CHT GETT ) # 7 wrth HOUT TO ATO 2310 arte 17 471, 1971 
द्वारा , केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उस अधिसूचना से उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिन्द परिक्षेत्र में भूमि को अर्जित करने के अपने प्राशय की सूचना दी 
97 ; 


SEc. 3 ( 11 ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 22, 1972 /VAISAKHA 2 , 1894 


1561 


और यत : सक्षम प्राधिकारी ने उक्त अधियिनयम की धारा के नुसरण में अपनी रिपोर्ट केन्द्रीय सरकार को दे दी है । 

और यन : रिपोर्ट पर विचार करने और मध्य प्रदेश सरकार से परामर्श करने के पश्चात् केन्द्रीय सरकार का समाधान हो गया है 
कि इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में वर्णित 106 . 12 एकड़ ( लगभग ) या 42. 94 हेक्टेयर ( लगभग ) परिमाप की भूमि को अर्जित किया जाना 
चाहिए ; 

अत : अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 9 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा 
यह घोषणा करती है कि उक्त अनुसूची में वर्णित 106. 12 एकड़ ( लगभग ) 42. 94 हेक्टेयर ( लगभग ) परिमाप की भूमि को एतद्वारा 
मजित किया जाता । 

इस अधिसूचना के अन्तर्गत आने वाले क्षेत्र के रेखांक का निरीक्षण कलक्टर सिधि ( म०प्र० ) के कार्यालय में , अथवा कोयला नियंत्रक , 
1, कांउसिल हाऊस स्ट्रीट , कलककत्ता के कार्यालय में अथवा राष्ट्रीय कोयला विकास निगम लिमिटेड ( राजस्व अनुभाग ) , दरभंगा हाउस , 
रांची (बिहार ) के कार्यालय में किया जाता सकता है । 

अनुसूची 
गो / खंड विस्तारण 
(सिंगरोली कोयला क्षेत्र ) 
( मध्य प्रदेश ) 

ड्राईग संख्या राजस्व / 45 / 71 

तारीख 13 - 9 - 1971 

( अजित की गई भूमि को दर्शित करते हुए ) 

उपखंर - I 
सभी अधिकार 


क्रम 


ग्राप 


तहसील 


जिला 


टिप्पणियां 


तहसील 
संख्या 


संख्या 


1 गोर्षी 


दिनोसर 


- 


सिधि 


भाग 


कुल क्षेत्र : - - 17 . 50 एकड़ ( लगभग ) 
या 7 . 08 हैक्टेयर ( लगभग ) 


प्राम गोर्क में अजित किए गए प्लाटों की संख्या---- 

87( पी ) , 94( पी ) , 95 ( पी ) , 96 ( पी ) , 97( पी ), 99 ( पी ) , 102( पी ), 131 ( पी ) , 140( पी ) , 141( पी ) , 142( पी ) , 
15 3 ( पी ) , 154 ( पी ) , 155 ( पी ) , 157 ( पी ) , 158( पी ) , 159 ( पी ) , 161 ( पी ) , 162 ( पी ) , 168( पी ) , 169 ( पी ) , 170 ( पी ) , 
171( पी ), 172 ( पी ), 173( पी ) , 174( पी ), 175 ( पी ) , 176( पी ), 177 ( पी ), 178( पी ), 182( पी ), 183 ( पी ), 367( पी ) , 
406( पी ) , 407( पी ), 408( पी ) और 409( पी ) । 
सीमा वर्णन 

7 - 8 लाइन ग्राम गोर्बी में प्लाट संख्या 87, 94, 96, 97, 96 , 102, 95 , 153, 154, 183, 182, 178, 167, 176 , 
175, 174, 173, 171, 170, 168, 140, 408, 141, 407, 131, 409, 131 और 367 से होकर गुजरती है और बिन्दु 8 
पर मिलती है । 

8 - 9 - 10 लाइनें ग्राम गोर्बी में प्लाट संख्या 367, 131, 409, 141, 142, 406 140, 168, 170, 169, 172, 173, 174 , 
162, 16 1 , 1 59, 1 5 8, 157, 1 5 5 , 153, 9 5, 102, 96, 99, 97, 96, 94, और 87 से होकर गुजरती है और बिन्दु 10 पर मिलती 


10 - 7 लाइन कोयला वाले क्षेत्र ( अर्जन और विकास ) अधिनियम, 1957 की धारा 9 ( 1 ) के अधीन अजित गो : खंड की समान्य 
सीमा से होकर गुजरती है और बिन्दु 7 पर मिलती है । 


1562 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 22, 1972 /VAISAKHA 2 , 1894 

- - - 
उपखंड - ii 


[ PART II .. 
- - - --- -- - 


- 


- -- - - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


- - - - 


सभी अधिकार 


- - 


- 


ग्राम 


तहसील 


जिला 


क्षेत्र 


टिप्पणियां 


क्रम 
संख्या . 


तहसील 
संख्या 


1 


मौरहिया 


दिप्रोसर 


सिधि 


भाग 


कुल क्षेत्र : - 88 . 50 एकड़ ( लगभग ) 
या : - 35. 81 हेक्टेयर ( लगभग ) ] 


ग्राम नौरिहया में अजित प्लाटों की संख्या : -- 

106( पी ) , 107( पी ) , 108( पी ) 109( पी ) , 110( पी ) , 111 ( पी ) , 112 ( पी ) , 113, 114, 115, 116, 117( पी ) , 
118 ( पी ), 119, 120, 121 ( पी ) , पोर 124( पी ) । 
सीमा वर्णन 
1 - 2 लाइन ग्राम नौरहिया में प्लाट संख्या 107 और 106 से होकर गुजरती है ( अर्थात् रेलवे अजित भूमि की भागत : दक्षिणी सीमा के 

साथ ) 
2 - 3 - 4 - 5 लाइनें ग्राम नौरहिया में प्लाट संख्या 106, 121 और 124 से होकर गुजरती है और बिन्दु 5 पर मिलती है । 
5 - 6 लाइन ग्राम नौरहिया में प्लाट संख्या 124, 117, 118, 117, और 110 से होकर गुजरती है और बिन्दु 6 पर मिलती है । 
6 - 1 लाइन ग्राम नौरहिया में प्लाट संख्या 110, 111, 110, 112, 109, 108, और 107 से होकर गुजरती है और बिन्दु 1 पर मिलती 


उप - खंड - iii 


सभी अधिकार 


ग्राम 


तहसील 


जिला 


क्षेत्र 


टिप्पणियां 


तहसील 
संख्या ।। 


संख्या 


1. 


गोर्बी 


दिनोसर 


दिनोसर 


- - 


सिधि 


सिधि 


भाग 


कुल क्षेत्र : - 0 . 12 एक इ ( लगभग ) 
अथवा : - 0 . 05 हेक्टेयर ( लगभग ) 


ग्राम गोर्बी में अजित प्लाटों की संख्या : -- 

367 ( पी ) और 366( पी ) । 
सीमा वर्णन 
11 - 12 - 13 लाइनें ग्राम गोर्बी में प्लाट संख्या 367 और 36 6 से होकर गुजरती हैं और बिन्दु 13 पर मिलती हैं । 
13 - 11 लाइन ग्राम गोर्क में प्लाट संख्या 366 और 367 से होकर गुजरती है और बिन्दु " 11 पर मिलती है । 


[ सं० फा० 1 ( 17) / 71 - को० 3] 


के . सुब्रमण्यन , अवर सचिव । 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


-- - - 


1 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 22 , 1972 / VAISAKHA 2, 1894 

1563 
- - - - - .. 
ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 

सूचना और प्रसारण मंत्रालय 
New Delhi, the 23rd February 1972 
$ . 0 , 997. — -Whereas, the Election Commission is satis 

नई दिल्ली , 3 फरवरी , 1972 
fied that the functions of the office of the district elec 
tion officer for the district of Hissar in the State of 
Haryana cannot be performed satisfactorily by one 

एस०प्र . ० 948 .-- केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा श्री मिल 
officer , 

गोस्वामी का 2 फरवरी, 1972 से सलाहकार पैनल , केन्द्रीय 
Now , therefore , in pursuance of the proviso to sub 

फिल्म मेंसर बोई , कलकत्ता की मदस्यता से त्याग -पत्र स्वीकार 
section ( 1 ) and of sub - section ( 2 ) of section 13AA of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1950 and in partial 

करती है । 
modification of its notification No . 508 / HN / 66. dated 
the 22nd December , 1966 , the Election Commission , in 
consultation with the Government of Haryana , hereby 

[ सं० 11/ 4/ 71 - एफ० ( सी० ) ] 
designates the Deputy Commissioner and the Additional 
Deputy Commissioner of the district of Hissar as the 
district election officers for the district and specifies that 

New Delhi, the 23rd February 1972 
the Additional Deputy Commissioner shall exercise 
jurisdiction as district election officer in respect of the 
areas comprised in 75 - Thana, 76 - Fatehabad and 77 

9 . O . 999. -- In exercise of the powers conferred by 
Badopal assembly constituencies in the said district and 

Rule 10 of the Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules , 1958 , 
the Deputy Commissioner shall exercise jurisdiction as the Central Government has been pleased to continue 
district election officer in respect of the remaining areas 

the appointment of Shri R . S . Saigal, Superintendent, 
of the district of Hissar. 

Central Board of Film Censors, as officiating Secretary 
[ No . 508 / HN/ 72.] 

to Chairman, Central Board of Film Censors , Bombayy , 

with effect from 20th January, 1972 to 5th March, 1972 
By order , 

vice Shri V . S . Shroff granted leave. 
A. N. SEN, Secy . 
भारत निर्वाचन आयोग 

[ No . 2 / 18 / 72 - FC .] 
नई दिल्ली , 23 फरवरी, 1972 

नई दिल्ली, 23 फरवरी , 1972 
एम० प्रो . 997 . --निर्वाचन आयोग का यह समाधान एस०प्रो० 9 9 9. - - चलचित्र (सेंसर ) नियमावली , 1958 
हो गया है कि हरयाणा राज्य में हिसार जिले के जिला निर्वाचन के नियम 10 द्वारा प्रदत्त अधिकारों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय 

आफिसर के पद के कृत्यों का एक प्राफिसर द्वारा समाधानप्रद सरकार श्री पार० एस० सैगल , अधीक्षक, केन्द्रीय फिल्म सेंसर 
रूप से पालन नहीं किया जा सकता ; 

बोर्ड की अध्यक्ष, केन्द्रीय फिल्म सेंसर बोर्ड , बम्बई के 
प्रतः, अब , लोक प्रतिधित्व अधिनियम , 1950 की धारा स्था पन्न सचिव के रूप में नियुक्ति को श्री वी० एस० 
13 कक की उपधारा ( 1 ) के परन्तुक तथा उपधारा ( 2) के श्राफ , जिनको छुट्टी प्रदान की गई , के स्थान पर 20 जनवरी , 
अनुसरण में और अपनी अधिसूचना सं० 508/ हर0 66 , तारीख 1972 से 5 मार्च, 1972 तक जारी रखती है । 
22 दिसम्बर, 1966 को प्रांशिक रूप से उपान्तरित करते हुए , 

_ [ सं० फा० 2/ 18/ 72 - एफ० (सी० ) ] 
भारत निर्वाचन पायोग हरयाणा सरकार के परामर्श से हिसार 
जिले के उपायुक्त और अपर उपायुक्त को उस जिले के लिए जिला 

New Delhi, the 30th March 1972 

S . O . 1000 , — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
निर्वाचन आफिसरों के रूप में एतद्द्वारा पदामिहित करता है और 

rule 10 of the Cinematograph (Consorship ) Rules, 1958 , 
यह विनिर्दिष्ट करता है कि अपर उपायुक्न उक्त जिला के 75 - - and in continuation of this Ministry s Notification No. 

2 / 18 / 72 - FC , dated 23rd February, 1972, the Central 
टोहना , 76 -फतेहाबाद और 77 - बाडोपल सभा निर्वाचन क्षेत्रों में Government has been pleased to continue the appoint 

ment of Shri R . S . Saigal , Superintendent , Central 
समाविष्ट क्षेत्रों की बाबत जिला निर्वाचन आफिसर के रूप में अधि 

Board of Film Censors , as officiating Secretary to Chair 
कारिता का प्रयोग करेगा और उपायुक्त हिसार जिले के बाकी क्षेत्रों 

man , Central Board of Film Censors , Bombay , with 

effect from 6th March , 1972 to 17th March , 1972 vice 
की बाबत जिला निर्वाचन आफिसर के रूप में अधिकारिता का Shri V . S . Shroff granted leave. 
प्रयोग करेगा । 

___ [ No. F . 2 / 18 / 72- FC . ] 
[ सं० 508/ हर० / 72 ] 

नई दिल्ली , 30 मार्च 1972 
आदेश से , 

एस० प्रो० 1000. - चलचित्र ( सेंसर )नियमावली , 1958 
ए० एन० सन , सचिव , के नियम 10 द्वारा प्रदत्त अधिकारों का प्रयोग करते हुए , तथा 

इस मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना संख्या 2/ 18/ 72- एफ०सी०., दिनांक 
MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND 

23 फरवरी , 1972 के क्रम में , केन्द्रीय सरकार श्री पार० एस० . 
BROADCASTING 

सैगल , अधीक्षक , केन्द्रीय फिल्म सेंसर बोर्ड , की अध्यक्ष , केन्द्रीय 
New Delhi, the 3rd February 1972 

सेंसर बोर्ड , बम्बई के स्थानापन्न सचिव के रूप में नियुक्ति को 
S . O . 998. The Central Government hereby accept 
the resignation of Shri Nirmal Goswami from mem 

श्री बी० एस० श्राफ , जिनको छुट्टी प्रदान की गई, के स्थान पर 
ership of the Advisory Panel , Central Board of Film 

6 मार्च, 1972 से 17 मार्च, 1972 तक जारी रखती है । 
Censor s , Calcutta with effect from the 2nd February , 
1972 . 
[ No . 11 / 4 / 71 - F ( C ) . ] 

[ संध्या एफ . 2/ 18/ 72 -एफ० ( सी . ) ] 


1564 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 22 , 1972/ VAISAKHA 2 , 1894 


[ PART II 


ORDERS 
New Delhi, the 25th March 1972 


9 , 0 . 1001 . - In pursuance of thic directions issued under the provisions of the enactments specificd in the J irst Schedule annexed 
hereto the Central Government after considering the recommendations of the Film Advisory Board , Pembay leichy approves the film 
specified in column 2 of the Second Schedule annexed hereto in all its language versions to be of the description specificd against itin 
column 6 of the gaid Second Schedule , 


THE FIRST SCHEDULE 


( 1 ) Sub - Section ( 4 ) of the Section 12 and Section 16 of the Cinematograph Act , 1952 ( Central Act xxxVII of 1952 ) 
( 2) Sub - section (4 ) of Section 5 of Uttar Pradesh Cinemas ( Regulation ) Act , 1955 ( Uttar Pradesh Act 3 of 1956) . 

THE SECOND SCHEDULE 


Title of the film 


Length 
35 mm 


Name of the 
Applicant 


Name of the 

Producer 


No . 


Whether a Scientific film or a film intended 
for educational purposce or a film dealing 
with news and current events of a docu 
mentary film . 


3 


I . Uttar Pradesh Sama- 298 . 09 M 

char No . 12. 


Director of Information Government of Film dealing with news and current events 
Uttar Pradesh. Lucknow . 

( For release in U . P . Circuit only ) . 


[ No. 28/ 1/ 72 - FP - App. 16461 


मादेश 

नई दिल्ली, 25 मार्च, 1972 
एस० प्रो0 1001.-- -इसके साथ लगी प्रथम अनुसूची में निर्धारित प्रत्येक अधिनियम के उपबन्ध के अन्तर्गत जारी किए गए निदेशों के 
अनुसार केन्द्रीय सरकार, फिल्म सलाहकार बोर्ड, बम्बई की सिफारिशों पर विचार करने के बाद , एतद्द्वारा इसके साथ लगी द्वितीय अनुसूची 
के कालम 2 में दी गई फिल्म को उसके सभी भाषामों के रूपान्तरों सहित जिसका विवरण उसके सामने उक्त द्वितीय सूची के कालम 6 में विया 
हुआ है, स्वीकृत करती है : 

प्रपम अनुसूची 
( 1) चलचित्र अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 37 वां केन्द्रीय अधिनियम ) की धारा 12 की उपधारा ( 4 ) तथा धारा 161 
( 2) उत्तर प्रदेश सिनेमा ( विनियम ) अधिनियम 1955 ( 1956 का तीसरा ) उत्तर प्रदेश अधिनियम की धारा 5 की उपधारा 


द्वितीय अनुसूची 


कम 
संख्या 


फिल्म का नाम 


लम्बाई 35 आवेदक का नाम 
लम्बाई 35 प्रावदक का ना 
मि० मी० 


निर्माता का नाम 


क्या वैज्ञानिक फिल्म है या शिक्षा संबंधी 
फिल्म है या समाचार और सामयिक 
घटनामों की फिल्म है या गकु 
मन्ट्री फिल्म है 


( 1) ( 2) 
( 1 ) उत्तर प्रदेश समाचार संख्या 


(3 ) 

( 6 ) 
298 . 09 सूचना निदेशक, उत्तर प्रदेश सरकार , लखनऊ । समाचार और सामयिक घटनामों 
मीटर 

की फिल्म ( केवल उत्तर प्रदेश सकिट 
के लिए ) 


12 


[ संख्या फाइल 28 / 1/ 72 - एफ पी परिशिष्ट 1648 ) 


SEc . 3 ( ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 22, 1972 /VAISAKHA 2, 1894 


1565 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- - - - - -- - 


-- - - - -- - - - - 


- - 


- 


- - - - - 


- - - - 


S . O . 1002 . -- In pursuance on thed. rections issued undert the provisions of each of the er ( 

I Facfd in the FirstSchedule 
annexed hereto , the CentralGovernment aiicr considering the recommendations of the Film Adviçony Poard , Borrhay herehy approve 
the film specified in column 2 of the Second Schedule annexed heretn in Gujaratito be of the description spec ficd against it in column 6 
of the said Second Schedule . 


THE FIRST SCHEDULE 


(I ) Şub - Section 4 of the Section 12 and Section 16 of the Cincmatographic Act , 1952 ( CentralAct XXXVII of 1992 ; 
(2 ) Sub -Section (3 ) of Section 5 and Section 9 of the Bombey Cinemas (Repulation ) Act , 1953 ( Bombax Act XVIJ 1983 ). 
13) Sub - Section 4 of Sections and Section 9 i Llių Saurus. .. Citienjas ( Requiuota : AC1, 1945. (S UI," h11a Acı XVII of 
1953 ). 

THE SECOND SCHEDULE 


Title on the film 


Sl. 
No . 


Length 
35 mm 


Name of the 

Applicant 


Name of the 

Producer 


Whether a Scienuficum or a film is lended 
for educational purposes or a film dealing 
with Dewg and current events or a deel 
mentary film . 


2 


- -- - 


Mahitichitra No . 117 . 289 56 M Director of Information , Government of ilm dealing with tics End centert Events 
Gujarat , Ahmedabad . 

( For release in Guisit Circuit anty ). 
.. - - - -- - .. .. . . - . - - - .. -- - 

FNO. ... I . -- - F P- A . , .1 /- )] 
TH प्रो01002. इसके साथ लगी प्रथम अनुसूची में निर्धारत प्रत्येक के अधिनियम के उपबन्ध के अन्तर्गन जारी किए गए निदशी के 
प्रनसार , केन्द्रीय सरकार, फिल्म सलाहकार बोर्ड, बम्बई की सिफारिशों पर विचार करने के बाद , एतद्द्वारा इसके साथ लगी द्वितीय अनसूची 
के कालम 2 में दी गई फिल्म को उसके गुजराती भाषा म्पान्नों महित जिसका विवरण उसके सामने उक्त द्वितीय प्रनसूची के कान में 
दिया हुआ है, स्वीकृत करती है : -- 

प्रथम अनुसूची 
1 ) चलचिन अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 37 वां केन्द्रीय अधिनियम ) की धारा 12 की उपधारा ( 4 ) तथा धाग 1 | 
( 2 ) बम्बई सिनेमा ( विनियम ) अधिनियम 1953 ( 1953 का 17 वां बम्बई अधिनियम की धारा 5 की उपधारा ( 

3 था 
धारा । 
( 3 ) सौराष्ट्र सिनेमा ( विनियम ) अधिनियम 1953 ( 1953 का 17 वां सौराष्ट्र अधिनियम ) की धारा 5 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
तथा धारा 91 

द्वितीय अनुसूची 


5 


__ - 


- - 


- 


- 


आवेदक का नाम 


निर्माता का नाम 


क्रम फिल्म का नाम 
संख्या 


लम्बाई 35 
मि० मी० 


क्या वैज्ञानिक फिल्म है या नशामा 
सम्बन्धि फिल्मा है या समाचार पोर 
सामायिक घटनामां की मिस ई 
या डाकुमेन्ट्री फिल्म है । 


- - 


- 


- - - , .. . 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


( 4) 


(5 ) 


( 1 ) महितिचिना संख्या 147 


289 . 56 सूचना निदेशक , गजगत मरकार , अहमदाबाद 
मीटर 


समाचार और ममाजिक घटनागों 
की फिल्म केवल गजरात सकिट 
केलिए ) 


[ संख्या फ० 28/ 1/ 72 - एफ पी० परिशिष्ट 16471 


SO . 02 . - Io pursuance of the directions isyucd under the provision of the enactmcts specified in the lint Schedule and 

notione of the Film Advisory Board , Romy 
barato the CentralGovernment after considering the fecommendations of the Film Advisory Board . Bombev hetetu 

hereby approve the lite 
Decified in column 2 of the Second Schedule annexed hereto in all its language versions to be of the descriri .uswecified imiti 
speciLU 111 CV 
column 6 of the said Second Schedule . 


1566 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 22, 1972 / VAISAKHA 2 , 1894 


[ PART II 


THE FIRST SCHEDULE 
(I ) Sub- Section ( 4) of the Section 12 and Section 16 of the Cinematograph Act , 1952 ( Centra ] AcL XXXVII of 1952 ) 
( 2) Sub- Section (4 ) of Section 5 of the Punjab Cinemas ( Regulation ) Act , 1952 ( Punjab Act XI of 1952 ). 

THE SECOND SCHEDULE 


Sl . 
No . 


Title of the film 


Length 
35 min 


Name of the 

Applicant 


Name of the 

Producer 


Whether a Scientific film or a film intended 
for educational purposes or film dealing 
with news and current events or a documell . 
tary film . 


3 


S 


( 1 ) Haryana Samachar 

Darshan No. 5 


287 . 43 M 


Director of Public Relations, Government Film dealing with news and current events 
of Haryana , Chandigarh. 

( For releusc in Haryana Circuit only) . 


- - 


- 


- - -- - - -- - -- 


[ No. F . 28 / 1/ 72- FP App . 1648] 

K . K . KHAN, Under Secy . 


एस . प्रो० 100 3. --- इस साथ लगी प्रथम अनुसूची में निर्धारित प्रत्येक अधिनियम के उपबंध के अन्तर्गत जारी किए गए निदेषों के 
पनुसार केन्द्रीय सरकार, फिल्म सलाहकार बोर्ड, बम्बई की सिफारिशों पर विचार करने के बाद एतद्द्वारा इसके साथ लगी द्वितीय अनुसूची 
के कालम 2 में दी गई फिल्म को उसके सभी भाषाओं के रुपान्तरों सहित जिसका विवरण उसके सामने उक्त द्वितीय अनुसूची के कालम 6 
पं दिया हुआ है, स्वीकृत करती है : --- 


प्रथम अनुसूची 
( 1 ) चनविन अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 37 वां केन्द्रीय अधिनियम ) की धारा 12 की उपधारा ( 4 ) तथा धारा 16 । 
( 2) पजार मिनेमा ( विनियम ) अधिनियम 1952 ( 1952 का 11 वां ) पंजान अधिनियम की धारा 5 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 


द्वितीय अनुसूची 


फि : म का नाम 


आवेदक का नाम 


निर्माता का नाम 


कम 
संख्या 


लम् , ई 35 
मि० मी० 


क्या वैज्ञानिक फिल्म है या शिक्षा 
सबंधित फि म है या समाचार और 
सामायिक घटनामों की फिल्म है 
या डाकुमेन्ट्री फिल्म है 


( 1) 


(2) 


( 3) 


(4) 


(5) 


( 6) 


1 


- 


- 


-- 


- 


सीरियाणा समाचार दर्गन 

संख्या 4 


387 . 43 जन सम्पर्क निदेशक , हरियाणा सरकार, चंडीगढ़ समाचार और सामयिक घट नानों की 
मीटर 

फिल्म ( केवल हरियाणा सकिट के 
के लिए ) 


[ संख्या फ० 28/ 1/ 72- एफ पी परिशिष्ट 1648 ] 


- क . क . खान , प्रवर सचिव । 


Sxc . 3 (11 ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 22, 1972 / VAISAKHA 2 , 1894 


1567 


P 


D . Vyas, Chairman , Central Board of Film Censors as 
the Chairman of the Film Advisory Board , Bombay 
with immediate effect vice Brig . R . Sreenivasan , 
retired . 

[ No. 28 / 3 / 70 -FP. ] 


New Delhi, the 21st February 1972 
S . O . 1004 - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
Rule 10 of the Cinematograph ( Censorship ) Rules , 
1950), the President has been pleased to continue the 
appointment off : -- 
(i ) Shri V . S . Shroff , Secretary to Chairman as 

officiating Additional Regional Officer , Central 
Board of Film Censors , Bombay with effect 
from 17th January , 1972 to 19th January , 
1972, vice Shri Amar Varma granted leave%3B 

and 
( ii ) Shri R . S. Saigal, Superintendent, Central 

Board of Film Censors , As officiating Secre 
tary to Chairman , Central Board of Film 
Censors , Bombay with effect from 17th Janu 
ary , 1972 to 19th January , 1972 vice Shri V . S . 
Shroff promoted . 

[ No. F . 2/ 65 / 71 - FC. ] 


नईदिल्ली , 28 फरवरी , 1972 
का० प्रा० 1005 .--- भारत सरकार के सूचना और प्रसारण 
मन्त्रालय के समय समयपर संशोधित संकल्प संख्या 1/ 29/ 58-एफ 
( पी ), दिनांक 5 फरवरी, 1959 के अनुसरण में केन्द्रीय सरकार 
ने केन्द्रीय फिल्म सेंसर बोर्ड के अध्यक्ष श्री वीरेन्द्र देव व्यास को 
तत्काल से सेवा -निवृत ब्रिगेडियर पार० स्ट्रीनिवासन के स्थान प 
फिल्म सलाहकार बोर्ड, बम्बई का अध्यक्ष नियुक्त किया जाता है । 

[ सं 28 /3/70-एफ० पी० ] 


नई दिल्ली , 21 फरवरी 1972 


2 


1 


CORRIGENDUM 
New Delhi, the 28th February 1972 
S . O . 1006 - In the Ministry of Information and 
Broadcasting Notification No . 28 / 3 / 70 - FP dated 18th 
January , 1972 , tor the words . " Jamshedji Bhaba ", the 
following should be substituted Jamshed Bhaba " . 


[ No . 28 / 3 / 70 - FP. ] 


C . B. GIRIDHAR, Dy. Secy . 


शुद्धिपत्र 


एस. मो० 1004 .-- चलचित्र ( सेंसर ) नियमावली , 1958 
का नियम 10 के द्वारा प्रदत्त अधिकारों का प्रयोग करते हुए , 
राष्ट्रपति 
( 1 ) अध्यक्ष के सचिव श्री वी०एस० श्राफ की , श्री अमर 

वर्माजिनको छुट्टी प्रदान की गई है, के स्थान पर 
17 जनवरी , 1972 से 19 जनवरी , 1972 तक, 
स्थानापन्न अतिरिक्त प्रादेशिक अधिकारी, केन्द्रीय 

फिल्म सेंसर बोर्ड , बम्बई, के पद पर तथा 
( 2 ) केन्द्रीय फिल्म सेंसर बोर्ड में अधीक्षक श्री पार० एम० 

संगल की श्री वी० एस० श्राफ, जिनकी पदोन्नति 
हुई है , के स्थान पर , 17 जनवरी , 1972 से 19 
जनवरी, 1972 तक , केन्द्रीय फिल्म सेंसर बोर्ड , 
बम्बई के अध्यक्ष के स्थानापन्न सचिव के पद पर, 
नियुक्ति जारी रखते हैं । 

[ संख्या० फा० 2 / 65 / 71- एफ ( सी ) ] 
New Delhi, the 28th February 1972 
S . O . 1005 - In pursuance of the resolution o the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Information 
and Broadcasting No . 1 / 29 / 58- FP dated the 5th 
February , 1959 , as amended from time to time, the 
Central Government, hereby nominates Shri Virendra 


नई दिल्ली , 28 फरवरी , 1972 


५ स० ओ० 1006. - सूचना और प्रसारण मन्त्रालय की अधि 
सूचना संख्या 28/ 3/ 70-एफ ( पी ) तारीख 18 जनवरी , 1972 
में जमशेदजी भाभा ) शब्दों के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित प्रतिस्थापित 
किया जाए : - - 


" जमशेद भाभा " 


L 


[ सं 28: 3/ 7() -एफ ( पी ) ] 


सी० बी० गिरिधर , उप सचिव । 


- 


. -- . . . 


MINISTRY OF SHIPPING AND TRANSPORT 

( Transport Wing ) 

Nor Delhi, the 9th February 1972 
V S . O . 1007. - In Cxercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 63 of theMotor Vehicles Act , 1939 (4 ol 1939 ) , and 1 " 
THuperression of the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Shipping and Transport ( Transport wing . No . 39 - TAGE31 

dated the 23rd September , 1971, the CentralGovernment hereby specifics the number of permits valid for the whole of indir , 98 spac 
113 colunin ( 2 OIL - 1212 Olow whiclith ? Ytzte Transport Authority ofany State or Union Territory may for the purpose of promoting 
tourists , grant in rcsptct of tlic clauses of tourist vehicles spécified in the corresponding entryn column ( 1 ) of the said Table . 

TABLE 
Class of tourist vehicle 

Number of permits . 


(6 ) Tourist motor cab . 
(ii) Touristomnibus with passenger capacity not exceeding 29. . 
(ili Tourait omnibus with passenger capacity exceeding 29 , 


roo 


. 


. 


. 


15 


। 


___ [ No. 39- TAGIG)/ 71] 
HARBANS SINGH, Dy. Secy 


1568 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 22 , 1972 /VAISAKHA 2 , 1894 


[ PART II .. 


- - - -- 


- 


- 


-- 


( 1 ) 


3 - - पर्यटक ओमनी बस 

जिसमें 2५ यात्रियों के बैठने के लिये आवश्यक जगह से 
अधिक की क्षमता है । 


10 


नावहम तमा परिवहन 

( परिवहन पक्ष ) 

नई दिल्ली , 9 फरवरी, 1972 
एस० ओ० 1007 . -~- मोटर गाड़ी अधिनियम , 1939 
( 1939 का 4 ) की धारा 63 की उपधारा ( 7 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए और भारत मरकार के नौवहन नथा 
परिवहन मंत्रालय ( परिवह्न पक्ष ) की अधिसूचना सम्ख्या 39 
टी०ए०जी० ( 3 )/ 71 दिनांक 13 सितम्बर, 1971 के अधि 
क्रमण में निम्नलिखित सारणी के स्तम्भ ( 2 ) में यथानिदिष्ट 
फेन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा समस्त भारत के लिए वैध परमिटों की 
संख्या को निर्दिष्ट करती है, जिन्हें किसी राज्य या मंघीय क्षेत्र का 
कोई राज्य परिवहन प्राधिकारी पर्यटन को बढ़ावा देने के प्रयोजन 
से उक्त सारणी के स्तम्भ ( 1 ) के तदनुसार प्रविष्टि में निर्दिष्ट 
पर्यटक गाड़ियों की श्रेणियों के सम्बन्ध में प्रदान कर सकता है : 

सारणी । 


[ सं० 39-टी०ए०जी० ( 3 )/ 71 ] 

हरबन्स सिंह , उप सचिव । 


(Transport Wing ) 


New Delhi, the 9th August 1971 


- -- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


पर्यटक गाड़ी की श्रेणी 

परमिटों की संख्या 
( 1 ) 

( 2 ) 
1 - - पर्यटन मोटर गाड़ी 
2 --- पयटक ओमनी बस 

जिसमें 29 यात्रियों को बैठने के लिए आवश्यक जगह से 
अधिक की क्षमता नहीं है । 


100 


S . O . 1008 . - In pursuance of sub - section ( 6 ) of Section 
63 of the Motor Vehicles Act , 1939 ( 4 of 1939) and in 
supersession of the notifcation of the Government of 
India in the late Ministry of Transport and Communica 
tions ( Department of Transport ) No. S . O . 1788 dated the 
2nd August, 1958 , the Central Government hereby 
specifies that the form of special distinguishing mark to 
be assigned to public service vehicles covered by 
special permits referred to in the said sub -section shall 
be as indicated below , and further specifies that the 
said distingnishing mark shall be displayed prominently 

on the wind -screen of the said vehicle. 
Special distinguising mark 


15 


- - - - - - - । 


- 


- - - 


Dimensions : 
Border - 1" 
Overal] Drameter - 4 
Colour : 

Contre - - Light Blue 
Boriler - Red 


SPECIAL PERMIT No . .. . .. ... 
(15SUED UNDER SECTION63 ( 6 ) OF 
THEMOTOR VEHICLES ACT 1939. ) . 
ISSUED BY --- 
VALID UPTO 

THIS SHOULD BE DISPLAYED 
PRONMENTLY ON THE WIND 
SCREEN OF THE VEHICLE . 


AVO 


NOTE. 

W 


ALBRET. 


ARRIAGE 


INo. 39-TAG ( 26 ) / 70. 1 
K . BALAKRISHNAN, Dy . Secy : 


SEC . 3 ( 1) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 22, 1972 /VAISAKHA 2, 1894 


1569 


सूचना सं० का० पा . 1788 दिनांक 2 अगस्त, 1958 के अधि 
( परिवहन पक्ष ) 

क्रमण में केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा उल्लिखित करती है कि सरकारी 

सेवा मोटर गाड़ियों , जो उक्त उपधारा में उल्लिखित विशिष्ट 
नई दिल्ली , 9 अगस्त , 1971 

परमिटो के अन्तर्गत पाती है, को दिया जाने वाला पहिचान चिन्ह 
एस०पी० 1008. -मोटर गाड़ी अधिनियम , 1939 ( 1939 नीचे दिया गया होगा , और यह भी उल्लिखित करती है कि उक्त 
का 4 ) की धारा 63 की उपधारा ( 6 ) के अनुसरण में प्रो . पहवान चिह उक्त मोटर गाड़ी के विण्डस्क्रीन पर प्रमख रूप से 
भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व परिवहन और संचारमंत्रालय की अधि प्रदशित किया जायेगा । 

विशिष्ट पहचान चिन्ह 


विदायान 
( मोटरगाड़ी अधिनियम१३६ 
की धारा ६३ (६) के अंतर्गत जारी 

किया गया विशिष्ट परमिट ) 
- -- - - -- के द्वारा जारी किया गया 
- -- -- - - - - - तकमान्य 
मोटरगाड़ी के विण्डस्क्रीन पर मुख्य 
रूप से प्रदर्शित किया जाना चाहिये। 


परिमाप : 
घाडर : 1, 4 
सम्पूर्ण व्यास 4 


रंग : 


केन्द्र : हल्का नीला 
बोर्डर ल . ल 


[ सं० 39 -टी०ए०जी० ( 26 )/ 70 ] 

के . बालाष्णन् , उप - सचिव । 


PRINTED BY THE CENZRAL MANAGER , COVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS , MINTO ROAD , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS , DELHI, 1972 


