REGISTERED No. D. 221 


‘She Gazette 




Enbia 

,<a 


EXTRAORDINARY 

PART II—Section 2 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

No. 63 1 NEW DELHI, MONDAY, DECEMBER id, 1956 


RAJYA SABHA 


The following Bill was introduced in the Rajya Sabha on the 10th 
December, 1956: — 

Bill No. XXIV ofi9s6 

A Bill to provide for the constitution of a National Film Board for 
the purpose of promoting the development of films as a medium 
of culture, education and healthy entertainment and for the 
regulation of exhibitions by means of cinematograph 

Be it enacted by Parliament in the Seventh Year of the Republic 
of India as follows:—- 


CHAPTER I 
Preliminary 

1. (1) This Act may be called the Cinematograph Act, 1956. Short title, 

extent a id 

(2) Chapters I, II, III, IV, and VI extend to the whole of India 'ommence- 
except the State of Jammu and Kashmir, and Chapter V extends ment - 

to Union territories only. 

(3) This Act shall come into force on such date as the Central 
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint. 

//r 2. It is hereby declared that it is expedient in the public interest Declaration 
that the Union should take under its control the cinematograph 

film industry. - trol of the 

' cinemato¬ 

graph film 
industry by 
the Union. 

3. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, — ■ Definition*. 

(a) “adult” means a person who has completed eighteen 
years of age; 

(b) “Board” means the National Film Board constituted 
under section 4; 


777 G of I No .—1 


( IO87 ) 


1038 


National 
Film Board. 


Film Certi¬ 
fication 
Bureau, Film 
Production 
Bureau and 
Film Insti¬ 
tute. 


Composition 
of the Board, 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part II 

(c) “Chairman” means the Chairman of the Board appoint¬ 
ed under sub-section ( 1) of section 6; 

(cl) “Chief Examiner” means the Chief Examiner appointed 
under sub-section (2) of section 18; 

(e) “cinematograph” includes any apparatus for the repre¬ 
sentation of moving pictures or series of pictures; 

(f) “district magistrate”, in relation to a presidency town, 
means the Commissioner of Police; 

(gr) “film” means a cinematograph film; 

( h ) “member” means a member of the Board; 

( i) “place” includes a house, building, tent and any descrip¬ 
tion of transport, whether by land, water or air; 

(j) “prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under 
this Act; 

(k) “Principal” means the Principal of the Film Institute 
appointed under sub-section (1) of section 35; and 

(Z) “regional examiner” means any regional examiner 
of films appointed under sub-section (2) of section 18, and 
includes any additional or assistant regional examiner of films. 

^CHAPTER II 
National Film Board 

4. The Central Government may, by notification in the Official 
Gazette, constitute a Board to be called the National Film Board 
for the purpose of promoting the development of films as a medium 
of culture, education and healthy entertainment and of performing 
such other functions as may be assigned to it by or under this Act. 

5. For the purpose of assisting the Board in the discharge of its 
functions under this Act, the Central Government may establish— 

(a) a Film Certification Bureau under the charge of the 
Chief Examiner of Films; 

(b) a Film Production Bureau under the charge of the 
Chief Examiner as its Director; and 

(c) a Film Institute under the charge of the Principal 
of the Institute. 

'6, (1) The Board shall have a Chairman who shall be appointed 
by the Central Government. 


(2) The Board shall consist of the following members, namely: — 
(a) the Chairman appointed under sub-section (1); 



3 »C. 2 } THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 1089 

(b) the Chief Examiner of Films and the Principal of the 
Film Institute, ex officio; 

(c) three members from among persons connected with the 
making of feature films as producers, directors, writers or 
technicians; 

(d) one member from among persons connected with the 
production of children’s films; 

(c) one member from among persons connected with the 
production of other kinds of films, including documentary films; 
and 

(/) five members from among persons having special 
knowledge or practical experience in respect of education, 
science, art, culture or social service. 

(3) The members referred to in clauses (c) to (f) shall be 
appointed by the Central Government, and every such appointment 
shall take effect as soon as it is notified by that Government in 
the Official Gazette. 

7. (7) The Chairman shall receive such salary and allowances Terms of 

as may be determined by the Central Government and shall hold °® cc .1 nd 
„ , , ‘ „ conditr ns 

office during the pleasure of that Government. of service of 

members. 

(2) All members other than the Chairman and ex officio mem¬ 
bers shall hold office for a period of three years. 

(3) A member of the Board may resign his office by giving 
notice in writing to the Central Government and on such resignation 
being accepted by that Government, shall be deemed to have vacated 

his office. 

(4) A casual vacancy created by the resignation of a member 
under sub-section (.2) or for any other reason shall be filled by 
fresh appointment and a member so appointed shall hold office for 
the remaining period for which the member in whose place he Is 
appointed would have held office. 

(5) A retiring member shall be eligible for re-appointment. 

(5) All members other than the Chairman and the ex officio 
members shall receive such allowances or fees for attending the 
meetings of the Board as may be prescribed. 

8. (1) The Central Government may, by order, remove from R emov »i G f 

office any member of the Board— members 

from offle*. 

(a) who, without excuse sufficient in the opinion of the 
Central Government, is absent without the leave of the Board 
from more than three consecutive meeting! of the Board; or 



Meetings of 
Hoard. 


Vacancies 
-mongst 
n< mbers or 
iefect in 
constitution 
>Ot to iova- 
idflte »ct» 
.nd procee¬ 
ding* of 
oard. 

ibjcct and 
unctions of 
he Boaid. 


10 O . THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part II 


(b) whose removal has, in the opinion of the Central 
Government, become necessary by reason of his misbehaviour 
or incapacity. 

(2) No member shall be so removed from his office unless he 
has been given an opportunity for showing cause against such 
removal. 

9. The Board shall meet at such times and places and shall observe 
such procedure in regard to the transaction of its business as may 
be provided by regulations made by the Board. 

10. No act or proceeding of the Board shall be deemed to be 
invalid by reason merely of a vacancy in, or any defect in the 
constitution of, the Board. 


11. ( 1 ) The object of the Board shall be to promote the develop¬ 
ment of films as a medium of culture, education and healthy 
entertainment. 

(2) The Board may, in furtherance of its object, perform the 
following functions, namely: — 

(a) to lay down the policy for, and co-ordinate and super¬ 
vise the activities of, the Film Certification Bureau, the Film 
Production Bureau and the Film Institute; 

(b) to establish and maintain a national film library; 

(c) to recognise such institutions and associations connected 
with films as it thinks proper and to recommend to the Central 
Government grants to them; 

(d) to co-ordinate the activities of film societies; 

(e) to determine the principles for classifying films in 
different categories, such as predominantly educational or 
cultural films or as films specially suitable for children; 

(f) to recommend films as suitable for export; 

(g) to recommend films as suitable for exhibition at inter¬ 
national or other film festivals; 

(h) to recommend films for being considered for selection 
for purposes of State awards; 

(i) to collect and maintain statistical and other information 
relating to the film industry; 

( j ) to do such other acts as may be incidental or conducive 
to the discharge of its functions. 



I09i 


Sec. 2j] THE "GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 

12. For the purpose of performing its functions under this Act, 
the Board may constitute from among its members such committees 
for general or special purposes as it may deem necessary and every 
committee so constituted shall perform such functions as are 
assigned to it by the Board. 

13. The Board may, from time to time, appoint one or more 
advisory committees for the purpose of assisting the Board in the 
efficient discharge of its functions. 

14. The Board shall prepare once every year, in such form and 
in suah time as may be prescribed, an annual report giving an ac¬ 
count of its activities during the previous year, including the work 
done by the Film Certification Bureau, the Film Production Bureau 
and the Film Institute and an account of the working of the film 
industry together with a summary of the information relating 
thereto collected by the Board during that year, and copies thereof 
shall be forwarded to the Central Government and the Government 
shall cause the same to be laid before both Houses of Parliament. 

15. For the purpose of enabling the Board to perform its functions 
under this Act, the Central Government may appoint such officers 
as it may think fit. 

1#. All orders and decisions of the Board and other instruments 
issued by it shall be authenticated in such manner as may be pro¬ 
vided by regulations made in this behalf by the Board. 

17. The Board may, from time to time, by resolution, delegate to 
the Film Certification Bureau, the Film Production Bureau or the 
Film Institute, subject to such conditions and limitations, if any, as 
may be specified in the resolution, such of its powers and functions 
as it may think fit. 


"CHAPTER III 
Certification of Films 

18. (1) It shall be the general duty of the Film Certification 
Bureau to examine films and to certify such of them as it considers 
■uitable for public exhibition; and no film shall be exhibited except 
in accordance with the certificate granted by the said Bureau. 

(2) For the purpose of enabling the Bureau to discharge its 
functions under this Chapter, the Central Government may appoint 
a Chief Examiner of Films who shall be in charge thereof and such 
regional examiners and other officers as it may deem necessary and 
all such regional examiners and other officers shall perform their 
functions under the general control of the Chief Examiner. 


Committees 
of Board. 


Advisory 

Committees. 


Annual 

report. 


Appointment 
of officers. 


Authenti ca¬ 
tion of orders 
and ether 
instruments 
of Board. 

Delegation 
of powers by 
Board. 


Fi’m Certi¬ 
fication 
Bureau. 



Bxnmimticn 
of films. 


1092 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part II 


(3) The Central Government may, in consultation with tha 
Board, establish centres at such places as it considers fit for the 
efficient performance of the functions of the Bureau. 

(4) At each such centre, there shall be one or more regional 
examiners and an advisory panel consisting of such number of mem¬ 
bers as the Central Government may, in consultation with the 
Board, think fit to appoint from among persons who, in the opinion 
of the Central Government, are capable of judging the effect of 
films on the public. 

(5) The members of the advisory panel shall receive such fees or 
allowances for attending the meetings of any examining committee 
or revising committee as may be prescribed. 

18. (I) Any person desiring to obtain a certificate in respect of a 
film shall, in the prescribed manner, make an application to the 
Film Certification Bureau; and on receipt of such application, the 
film shall be examined by an examining committee and, if the rules 
made in this behalf so provide, also by a revising committee. 

(2) Subject to any rules that may be made under this Act, each 
such Committee shall consist of a regional examiner and such mem¬ 
bers of the advisory panel as the Chief Examiner may think fit to 
nominate to that committee. 

(3) The Chief Examiner shall be an ex officio member of every 
revising committee and shall preside at the meetings of such com¬ 
mittees: 

Provided that if, for any reason, he is unable to attend any meet¬ 
ing of such Committee, any member thereof authorised by him In 
this behalf shall preside at that meeting. 

(4) The Chief Examiner may attend any meeting of the 
examining committee and in such a case, he shall be deemed to be 
a member thereof and shall preside at that meeting. 

(5) The examining committee and the revising committee, if any, 
shall examine the film in the prescribed manner and after such 
examination, the Chief Examiner shall, subject to any rules that 
may be made for giving effect to the recommendations of the said 
committees, make such order in relation to the film as he thinks fit. 

(0) No order prejudicially affecting any person applying for a 
certificate shall be made without giving him a reasonable oppor¬ 
tunity of representing hi* views. 



SfcC. 2] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 1093 

20. In examining any film under this Chapter, the authority ^ rinc ^l?j” nc 
making the examination shall generally keep in view the effect the in ex mina- 
film is likely to have on the public and, in particular, shall consider ti on of 
whether the film or any part thereof is likely to— 

(a) impair the moral standards of the public; 

(b) depreciate social values or offend against the standards 
of public taste; 

(c) affect friendly relations of India with foreign nations; 

(d) affect public order or the security of the State; or 

(e) involve defamation or contempt of court, or cause in¬ 
citement to an offence. 

21. (1) If, after examination of a film in the manner provided in Ceniflcatiom 
section 19, the Film Certification Bureau considers that the film is of 
suitable for unrestricted public exhibition or that, although not 
suitable for such exhibition, it is suitable for public exhibition res¬ 
tricted to adults, it shall grant to the person applying for a certifi¬ 
cate in respect of the film a ‘U’ certificate in the former case, and an 

‘A’ certificate in the latter case, and shall, in either case, cause the 
film to be so marked in the prescribed manner, and such certificate 
shall, save as hereinafter provided, be valid throughout India for a 
period of ten years. 

(2) If after such examination, the Film Certification Bureau con¬ 
siders— 

(a) that the film is neither suitable for unrestricted public 
exhibition nor for public exhibition restricted to adults; or 

(b) that the film would not be suitable for public exhibition, 
unless certain parts thereof are excised or modified to the satis¬ 
faction of the Bureau; 

it shall, in either case, inform the person applying for the certificate 
of its decision. 

(2) If the person applying for the certificate carries out excisions 
or modifications in the film as required under clause (b) of sub¬ 
section (2) to the satisfaction of the Film Certification Bureau, a 
certificate shall be granted in respect of that film under sub¬ 
section (1). 

(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), if the 
Film Certification Bureau considers that the film is suitable for 
public exhibition restricted to specified classes of persons, it may 
grant to the person applying for the certificate in respect of the 
film a ‘S’ certificate, subject to such conditions, if any, as it may im¬ 
pose and cause the film to be so marked in the prescribed manner. 




Appeal- 


Revisiorinl 
po'vcr” of 
Gertral 
Gjvein- 
ment. 


1094 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part II 


(5) A certificate granted under this section may be renewed or 
amended in such manner as may be prescribed. 

22. (2) Any person applying for a certificate who is aggrieved 
by the decision of the Film Certification Bureau under section 21 
may, with the leave of the Chairman of the Board, prefer an appeal 
to the Board. 

(2) No application for the grant of leave to appeal to the Board 
shall be entertained by the Chairman thereof, unless such applica¬ 
tion is made within thirty days from the date of the decision of 
the Film Certification Bureau and the Chairman is of opinion that 
the decision of the Film Certification Bureau is manifestly wrong or 
unreasonable or that the appeal involves a substantial question of 
policy. 

(3) On receipt of an appeal under sub-section (2), the Board 
shall, after such inquiry into the matter as it may consider neces¬ 
sary, and after giving the appellant a reasonable opportunity of 
representing his views, make such order in relation thereto as it 
thinks fit. 

(4) The powers and functions of the Board under this section 
may be exercised and discharged by a committee thereof consisting 
of the Chairman, the Chief Examiner and such three other members 
of the Board as the Chairman may think fit to appoint for the 
purpose. 

23. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Chapter, the 
Central Government may, at any stage, call for the record of any 
proceeding in relation to a film which is pending before, or has been 
decided by, any authority under this Chapter and after such inquiry 
into the matter as it may consider necessary, make such order in 
relation thereto as it thinks fit: 

Provided that no such order shall be made without giving the 
person applying for the certificate or to whom the certificate was 
granted, as the case may be, a reasonable opportunity of represent¬ 
ing his views. 

(2) Without prejudice to the powers conferred on it under sub¬ 
section (2), the Central Government may, by notification in the 
Official Gazette, direct that— 

(a) a film which has been granted a certificate shall be 
deemed to be an uncertified film in the whole or any part of 
India; or 

(b) a film which has been granted a ‘U’ certificate shall be 
deemed to be a film in respect of which an ‘A’ certificate has 
been granted. 



Sac. 2 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 1095 

(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), 
where the Central Government is of opinion that circumstances 
exist which render it necessary to take immediate action, the 
Central Government may direct that the exihibition of any film be 
suspended for such period not exceeding two months as may be 
specified in the direction and during the period of suspension, the 
film shall be deemed to be an uncertified film. 


24, Any person who sends any certified film to any distributor Information 
or exhibitor shall, in such manner as may be prescribed, notify to mem»°to"be 
the distributor or exhibitor, as the case may be, the title and length given to dis- 
of the film, the number and the nature of the certificate granted in Ind'wdilbi- 


respect thereof and conditions, if any, subject to which it has been trr* with 
so granted and any other particulars respecting the film which may cerfifta/fllm 


be prescribed. 


25. No producer, distributor, exhibitor or other person shall dis- Restriction! 
play or cause to be displayed any illustrated poster produced or im- p^of ex¬ 
ported for general distribution in connection with the exhibition of t«in posters, 
a film, unless such poster has been approved in the prescribed 
manner by the Film Certification Bureau; and in examining such 
poster, the Board shall have due regard to the same principles as 
it would have in examining films under section 20. 


26, No person shall exhibit or reproduce, in any manner whatso- Barofexhi- 
ever, any part of a film which has been excised at the time of production* 
certification, whether such excised part consists of pictures, of excised 
dialogues, songs or commentary. part* of film, 


27. (1) If any person— Penalties. 

(a) exhibits or permits to be exhibited in any place— 

(i) any film which has not been certified by the Film 
Certification Bureau or which, when exhibited, does not dis¬ 
play the prescribed mark of the Bureau or which has been 
altered or tampered with in any way since the mark was 
affixed thereto, or 

(ii) any film which has been certified as suitable for 
public exhibition restricted to adults, to any person who is 
not apparently an adult, or 

(wi) any film which has been certified as suitable for 
exhibition restricted to any specified class of persons, to any 
person who does not belong to that class, or 

( iv ) any film in any form other than that in which it 
was certified, or 

(v) any film in contravention of any of the conditions 
subject to which the certificate was granted, or 



Power of 
Chief Exa¬ 
miner to 
o ancel cer- 
t ificates. 


Power to 
exempt. 


Delegation 
of powers b 
Chief Exa¬ 
miner. 


Application 
of Chapter 
to film* 
exhibited 
or ondcr 
authority of 
Govern¬ 
ment. 


1696 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part II 

( b) without lawful authority (the burden of proving which 
shall be on him) alters or tampers with any film in any way 
after it has been certified, or 

(c) fails to comply with or contravenes the provisions of 
section 24, section 25 or section 26 or any order made by the 
Central Government, the Board or the Film Certification Bureau 
in the exercise of any of the powers or functions conferred on it 
by this Act or the rules made thereunder, 

he shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to 
three months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand 
rupees, or with both; and in the case of a continuing offence, with 
a further fine which may extend to one thousand rupees for each 
day during which the offence continues. 

(2) If any person is convicted of an offence punishable under 
this section committed by him in respect of any film, the court 
passing the order may further direct that the film shall be forfeited 
to the Government. 

(3) The exhibition of a film, in respect of which an ‘A’ certificate 
has been granted, to children below the age of three years accom¬ 
panying their parents or guardians shall not be deemed to be an 
offence within the meaning of this section. 

28. Where a film is exhibited in a form other than that in which 
it was certified, the Chief Examiner may, without prejudice to any 
other penalty which may be imposed under this Chapter, cancel the 
certificate granted in respect thereof and thereupon, the film shall 
be deemed to be an uncertified film. 

29. The Central Government may, by order in writing, exempt, 
subject to such conditions and restrictions, if any, as it may impose, 
any film or class of films from any of the provisions of this Act or 
of any rules made thereunder. 

30. The Chief Examiner may, with the previous approval of the 
Central Government, by general or special order, direct that any 
power, authority or jurisdiction exercisable by him under this 
Act, shall in relation to such matters and subject to such conditions, 
if any, as may be specified in the direction, be exercisable also by 
such regional examiner or other officer as may be specified in the 
order. 

31. The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to the exhibition 
of any film by or unde.’ the authority of Government. 




Sjtc. 2 J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 10 97 

CHAPTER IV 

Film Production Bureau and Film Institute 

32. (I) The Chief Examiner shall be the Director of the Film 
Production Bureau. 

(2) For the purpose of enabling the Bureau to discharge its 
functions under this Chapter, the Central Government may appoint 
such other officers as it may deem necessary and all such officers 
shall perform their functions under the general control of the 
Director. 

33. (1) It shall be the duty of the Film Production Bureau— 

(a) to scrutinise and give advice in respect of any script 
or visual materials connected therewith which may be submit¬ 
ted to it by any producer: and 

(b) generally to assist any producer who seeks advice in 
matters connected with the production of films. 

(2) The Film Production Bureau shall discharge its functions 
under this section in such manner as may be prescribed. 

34. If any person engaged in connection with the functions of 
the Film Production Bureau under this Act wilfully discloses any 
information relating to any matter in respect of which the advice 
or guidance of the Bureau has been sought by a producer otherwise 
than in the execution of his duties under this Act, or for the pur¬ 
poses of a prosecution under this Act or under the Indian Penal 

450 ] 186 c. Code, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which 
may extend to three months, or with fine which may extend to one 
thousand rupees, or with both. 

35. (I) For the purpose of enabling the Film Institute to dis¬ 
charge its functions under this Chapter, the Central Government 
may appoint a Principal of the Film Institute and such other officers 
and teaching staff to assist him as the Central Government may 
deem necessary, and all such officers and staff shall perform their 
functions under the general control of the Principal. 

(2) It shall be the duty of the Film Institute to provide technical 
training in the production of films and to conduct research into 
such aspects of film production as appear to it to be of general 
interest to the film industry, and in the discharge of its duties, it 
may— 

(a.) impart training in cinematography, sound recording, 
processing, art direction, editing, animation, script writing, 
make-up, costumes and audience research; 


Film Pro¬ 
duction 
Bureau. 


Function* 
of Film 
Production 
Bureau. 


Penalty for 
unauthorised 
disclosure of 
information. 


Film 

Institute. 



Cinemato¬ 
graph exhlbi- 
tio t to be 
licensed. 


Lic«n«ing 

authority. 


Restrictions 
on powers 
of licensing 
authority. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part II 


(b) arrange practical training in film studios and with film 
production units; 

(c) co-ordinate facilities of training with such other institu¬ 
tions and associations as are recognised by the Board; 

(d) grant diplomas to successful trainees who have under¬ 
gone such course of training as may be provided by regulations 
made by the Board; 

(e) maintain a centre or centres for the loan of specialised 
articles of equipment to film producers; 

(f) generally make available its advice and guidance to 
producers and others in technical matters connected with film 
production in such manner as may be prescribed. 

CHAPTER V 

Regulation of Exhibitions by means of Cinematographs 

36. Save as otherwise provided in this Chapter, no person shall 
give an exhibition by means of a cinematograph elsewhere than in 
a place licensed under this Chapter or otherwise than in compliance 
with any conditions and restrictions imposed by such licence. 

37. The authority having power to grant licences under this 
Chapter (hereinafter referred to as the licensing authority) shall 
be the district magistrate: 

Provided that the State Government may, by notification in the 
Official Gazette, constitute, for the whole or any part of the Union 
territory, such other authority as it may specify in the notification 
to be the licensing authority for the purposes of this Chapter, 

38. ( 1) The licensing authority shall not grant a licence under 
this Chapter, unless it is satisfied that—• 

(a) the rules made under thii Chapter have been substan¬ 
tially complied with, and 

(b) adequate precautions have been taken in the place, in 
respect of which the licence is to be given, to provide for the 
safety of persons attending exhibitions therein. 

(2) Subject to the foregoing provisions of this section and to 
the control of the State Government, the licensing authority may 
grant licences under this Chapter to such persons as that authority 
thinks fit and on such terms and conditions and subject to such 
restrictions as it may impose. 

(3) Any person aggrieved by the decision of a licensing autho¬ 
rity refusing to grant a licence under this Chapter may, within 
such time as may be prescribed, appeal to the State Government 



Sbc. 2] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY IO 99 

or to such officer as the State Government may specify in this behalf 
and the State Government or the officer, as the case may be, may 
make such order in the case as it or he thinks fit. 

'(4) The Central Government may, from time to time, issue 
directions to licensees generally or to any licensee in particular 
for the purpose of regulating the exhibition of any film or class of 
films, so that scientific films, films intended for educational pur¬ 
poses, films dealing with news and current events, documentary 
films or indigenous films secure an adequate opportunity of being 
exhibited, and where any such directions have been issued those 
directions shall be deemed to be additional conditions and restric¬ 
tions subject to which the licence has been granted. 

39. (1) The administrator in respect of the whole of the Union Power of nd 
territory or any part thereof and the district magistrate in respect 

of the district within his jurisdiction may, if he is of opinion that authorit 10 
any film which is being publicly exhibited is likely to cause a bitlormf film* 
breach of the peace, by order, suspend the exhibition of the film in certain 
and during such suspension, the film shall be deemed to be an un- 
certified film in the Union territory or part or district, as the case 
may be. 

(2) Where an order under sub-section (1) has been issued by 
the administrator or a district magistrate, as the case may be, a copy 
thereof, together with a statement of reasons therefor, shall forth¬ 
with be forwarded by the person making the same to the Central 
Government, and the Central Government may either confirm or 
discharge the order. 

(3) An order made under this section shall remain in force for a 
period of two months from the date thereof, but the Central Gov¬ 
ernment may, if it is of opinion that the order should continue in 
force, direct that the period of suspension shall be extended by such 
further period as it thinks fit. 

40. If the owner or person in charge of a cinematograph uses the p B n*lti e ». 
same or allows it to be used, or if the owner or occupier of any place 
permits that place to be used in contravention of the provisions of 

this Chapter or of the rules made thereunder, or of the conditions 
and restrictions upon or subject to which any licence has been grant¬ 
ed under this Chapter, he shall be punishable with fine which may 
extend to one thousand rupees and, in the case of a continuing 
offence, with a further fine which may extend to one hundred rupees 
for each day during which the offence continues. 

41. Where the holder of a licence has been convicted of an offence p»ww to re- 
under section 27 or section 40, the licence may be revoked by the oka licence, 
licensing authority. 



1100 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part II 


Power to 42. (I) The Central Government may, by notification in the 

c r c ' Official Gazette, make rules to carry out the purposes of this 
Chapter. 

(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the 
foregoing power, such rules may provide for— 

(a) the terms and conditions and restrictions, if any, subject 
to which licences may be granted under this Chapter; 

( b ) the regulation of cinematograph exhibitions for securing 
the public safety; 

(c) the time within which and the conditions subject to 
which an appeal under sub-section (.9) of section 38 may be 
preferred; 

(d) any other matter which has to be, or may be, prescribed. 


Power to 
exempt. 


43. The Central Government may, by order in writing, exempt, 
subject to such conditions and restrictions as it may impose, any 
cinematograph exhibition or class of cinematograph exhibitions from 
any of the provisions of this Chapter or of any rules made there¬ 
under. 


CHAPTER VI 


Directions 
by Central 
Govem- 

moii . 


Miscellaneous 

44. For the purpose of this Act, the Central Government may, 
from time to time, give to the Board, after consultation with it, such 
general or special directions as the Central Government thinks fit, 
and the Board shall comply with any such directions. 


Member* of 
Board and 
advisory 
panel to be 
public 
servant*. 


45. All members of the Board and of any advisory panel shall, 
when acting or purporting to act in pursuance of any of the pro¬ 
visions of this Act, be deemed to be public servants within the 
meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code. 


Bar of legal 46. No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central 
proceedings. Government, or any officer thereof or any member of the Board or of 
any advisory panel in respect of anything which is in good faith done 
or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act. 


Removal of 
dTqualiflca- 
tion for 
membership 
of Parliament 
in certain 
cases. 


47. It is hereby declared that the office of a member of the Board 
(other than that of the Chairman and ex officio members) and of an 
advisory panel shall not disqualify its holder for being chosen as, or 
for being a member of, either House of Parliament. 


doffing 1 ' 111 48. When the Chairman or the Chief Examiner is, by reason of 
Chairman absence or otherwise, unable to perform the duties of his office in 
Examiner. • circumstances not involving the vacation of his appointment, the 
Central Government may appoint another person to perform his 
duties during his absence. 


45 of i 860 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


liol 


2 ] 


49. (1) The Central Government may, by notification in the Power to 
Official Gazette, make rules for carrying into effect the provisions 


of 


Chapters II, III and IV. 


(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the 
foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of the follow¬ 
ing matters, namely:— 

(a) the allowances or fees to be paid to the members for 
attending the meetings of the Board; 

(b) the term of office of members of advisory committees of 
the Board and other conditions of their service; 


(c) the constitution of advisory panels and term of office 
and other conditions of service of members thereof; 


(d) the constitution of examining and revising committees, 
the circumstances in which a revising committee is to be con¬ 
stituted, the procedure to be followed by such committees in 
examining films and the circumstances under which recom¬ 
mendations of such committees shall be given effect to and all 
matters ancillary thereto; 

(e) the procedure to be followed by the Film Certification 
Bureau in certifying films, the manner in which the film is to be 
marked, the procedure to be followed in renewing or amending 
a certificate in respect of a film and the fees that may be levied 
by the Film Certification Bureau; 

(f) the conditions (including conditions relating to the length 
of films in general or any class of films, in particular) subject 
to which any certificate may be granted, or the circumstances in 
which any certificate may be refused; 

( g ) the manner in which an appeal may be preferred to the 
Board from any decision of the Film Certification Bureau and 
the manner of disposal of such appeal; 

(ft.) the manner in which the Central Government may 
make an inquiry under this Act; 

(i) the manner in which a person delivering the certificate 
to a distributor or exhibitor may notify the particulars referred 
to in section 24; 


( j) the manner in which any illustrated poster produced or 
imported for general distribution in connection with the exhibi¬ 
tion of a film may be submitted to the Film Certification 
Bureau for its approval, and the manner in which such poster 
may be approved; 



Power to 
make regu¬ 
lations. 


Repoel. 


fctoit THE GAZETTE OP INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part il 


( k) the manner in which the Film Production Bureau and 
the Film Institute may perform their functions under this Act; 

(l) any other matter which has to be, or may be, prescribed. 

(3) All rules made under this section shall be laid for not less 
than thirty days before both Houses of Parliament as soon as pos¬ 
sible after they are made, and shall be subject to such modifications 
as Parliament may make during the session in which they are so 
laid or the session immediately following. 

50. The Board may make regulations not inconsistent with this 
Act and the rules made thereunder for— 

(a) regulating the meetings of the Board and the procedure 
for transacting its business; 

(b) regulating the manner in which committees of the 
Board and advisory committees thereof may be constituted and 
the manner in which they may perform their functions; 

(c) regulating the manner in which orders tod decisions of 
the Board and other instruments issued by it may be authenti¬ 
cated; 

(d) delegating the powers and functions of the Board to the 
Film Certification Bureau, the Film Production Bureau or the 
Film Institute; 

(e) specifying the course of training for the grant of diplo¬ 
mas by the Film Institute. 

51. (1) The Cinematograph Act, 1952, is hereby repealed. 

(2) Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done, or any action 
taken by the Board of Film Censors constituted under the Cinemato¬ 
graph Act, 1952, in the exercise of any power conferred on it by or 
under the said Act, including any certificate granted by the said 
Board in respect of a film shall be deemed to have been done or 
taken by the Film Certification Bureau in the exercise of the powers 
conferred on it by or under this Act, as if this Act were in force on 
the day on which such thing was done or action was taken, and 
for the removal of doubts it is hereby declared that any certificate 
granted by the Board under the said Act shall be valid for a period 
of ten years from the date on which it was issued. 

(2) The provisions of sub-section (2) shall be without prejudice 
to the provisions contained in section 6 of the General Clauses Act 

1897. 


37 of I???. 


37 of 1952. 


10 of 1197 . 



37 of 1952. 


37 of 1952. 


Sec.I 2 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 1103 

52 . If, immediately before the commencement of this Act,— 

(a) there are any proceedings pending before the Board of 
Film Censors constituted under the Cinematograph Act, 3952, 
the proceedings shall, on such commencement, stand transferred 
to, and be disposed of by, the Film Certification Bureau as if they 
were proceedings pending before it under this Act; and 

(b) there are any appeals pending before the Central Gov¬ 
ernment under the provisions of the Cinematograph Act, 1952, 
the appeals shall, on such commencement, stand transferred to, 
and be disposed of by, the National Film Board as if they were 
appeals pending before it under this Act. 


Special 
provi»lotl 
for pending 
proceeding* 
etc. 


777 G of I N? —3 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Pari II 


1104 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 

The Cinematograph Act, 1952 (XXXVII of 1952) embodies in Part 
II the scheme of centralisation of certification of films for public 
exhibition. The effect of the procedure for certification under the 
Act is primarily of a negative character in that the examination is 
made mainly for the purpose of eliminating objectionable features. 
There has been a feeling that even under this procedure there is 
greater scope for improvement of the moral and cultural standards 
of films. It has moreover been recognised that positive assistance, 
guidance and encouragement should be given in the production of 
films of better aesthetic and cultural standards. The Film Enquiry 
Committee recommended that a Production Code Administration 
should be set up to give advice to producers on scripts and other 
aspects of production and a Film Institute should be established for 
training and research. The Bill seeks to implement this recommen¬ 
dation. The Bill also revises the scheme of certification in the light 
of experience gained during the last five years. The revised scheme 
is made adequate for reflecting the established moral and cultural 
standards, maintaining at the same time the principles of natural 
justice. 

2. Accordingly, a new organisational set up has been formulated. 
A National Film Board will be established with three constituent 
emits, namely, the Film Certification Bureau, the Film Production 
Bureau and the Film Institute. The object of the National Film 
Board, which will be an apex body, will be to promote the develop¬ 
ment of films as a medium of culture, education and healthy enter¬ 
tainment. The composition of the National Film Board is so devised 
as to include adequate representation of enlightened public opinion 
and also the various aspects of the film industry. Among its im¬ 
portant functions will be the co-ordination and supervision 
of the activities of the constituent units and the guidance 
of their policy. The Film Certification Bureau will take 
over the work of the present censorship organisation. The Film 
Production Bureau will be a new unit and is intended for giving, cn 
a voluntary basis, advice and assistance in matters connected with 
the production of films, A close co-ordination is to be maintained 
between the Film Certification Bureau and the Film Production 
Bureau, thus ensuring that positive guidance is made more practical 
and useful. The Film Institute will not only impart technical train¬ 
ing in various aspects of film production but also conduct research, 
thereby helping in the improvement of technical and aesthetic 
standards. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


Sjsct 2] 


II05 


tafcj 

are 


3. Following the practice in many other countries, power has been 
en to scrutinise, as part of the examination of films, posters which 
intended for public exhibition through general distribution. 


4. Chapters II, III and IV replace the present Part II of the Cine¬ 
matograph Act, 1952 and Chapter V re-enacts the present Part III 
(which deals with the regulation of exhibitions by means of cinema¬ 
tograph) for its application to Union territories. 


New Delhi; 

The 1th December, 1956. 


B. V. KESKAR. 



XI o 6 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part II 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 

The Bill contemplates the constitution of a National Film Board 
with three constituent units, namely, the Film Certification Bureau, 
the Film Production Bureau and the Film Institute. The Film Cer¬ 
tification Bureau will replace the present censorship organisation. 
The Film Production Bureau will be a new unit to give advice to 
producers on scripts and assist them in securing guidance on other 
aspects of film making, with a view to improving the standard of 
productions. There will be some special staff in the Bureau for this 
work. The Film Institute will be a training and research institution 
with the necessary staff and a building of its own including techni¬ 
cal facilities and suitable equipment, use being also made of the 
facilities and equipment available in the Films Division. 

2. The National Film Board will have a Chairman who will be a 
salaried officer of the Central Government and the members of the 
Board will receive only fees or allowances for attending the meet¬ 
ings of the Board. There will also be some staff attached to the 
Board. The Board will replace the existing Central Board of Film 
Censors set up under the Cinematograph Act, 1952. The additional 
expenditure in connection with the National Film Board will be 
roughly of the order of ninety thousand rupees. The expenditure on 
the Film Certification Bureau is expected to be approximately the 
same as the present expenditure on the censorship machinery which 
has an income by way of censorship fees. The annual expenditure 
involved in the Film Production Bureau is estimated at Rs. 1 • 1 lakhs. 
In regard to the Film Institute, the capital requirements of which 
are estimated at Rs. 30 lakhs spread over three to four years, it is 
proposed to make an annual allocation of Rs. 12 lakhs, to meet— 

(a) such requirements, 

(b) the recurring expenditure on staff, stores and produc¬ 
tion of films as a part of the training and research, and 

(c) the non-recurring expenditure on furniture, vehicles, 
etc. 

It is proposed that engagement of staff should be deferred till the 
fourth year, except for such staff as may be required in connection 
with the construction of the building or the purchase of equipment. 



Ikc. 2] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


II07 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 

Clauses 42 and 49 of the Bill empower the Central Government 
to make rules to give effect to the provisions of the Bill when enact¬ 
ed. Clause 49 deals with the general powers of the Central Govern¬ 
ment to make rules in relation to the National Film Board, the Film 
Certification Bureau, the Film Production Bureau and the Film 
Institute. The matters in respect of which such rules may be made 
have been specified therein. They relate to the allowances or fees to 
be paid to the members of the Board and the term of office and con¬ 
ditions of service of members of advisory committees of the Board 
and of advisory panels. They also relate to the procedure to be 
followed by the Film Certification Bureau in examining and certify¬ 
ing films and the procedure for filing an appeal against the decision 
of the Bureau. Rules may also be made relating to the manner in 
which illustrated posters in connection with the exhibition of a film 
may be approved and the manner in which the Film Production 
Bureau and the Film Institute may perform their functions. Clause 
42 of the Bill, on the other hand, is restricted in scope and deals with 
the powers of Central Government to make rules in relation to regu¬ 
lation of exhibitions by means of cinematograph in Union territories. 
They relate to the terms and conditions and restrictions subject to 
which licences may be granted, the regulation of cinematograph 
exhibitions for securing public safety and the procedure relating to 
appeal against an order of a licensing authority. All these matters 
are of a procedural and routine character. 

2. Under clause 50 of the Bill, the Board has been empowered to 
make regulations for regulating its own procedure. 

3. The proposed delegation of legislative power Is of a normal 
character. 


S. N. MUKERJEE, 
Secretary. 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 19 M 




