REGISTERED No . D . 12 


yck 


E 


The Gazette 


T 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 19 ] 


NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, MAY 12 , 1956 


NOTICE 
The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 4th 
May 1956 : 


Isgue / 


No, and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


No . 1 


129 S . R . O . 1913 , dated the Ministry of Finance Amendments made in the Noti 
30th April 1956 . (Revenue Division ) fication No. 13 Customs, 

dated the 28th February 1953 . 
130 S . R . O . 1014 , dated the Ministry of Connerce Fixation of the price of tea for 
IstMy 1956 and Industry . 

the purpose of Item s in the 
Second Schedulo to the Indian 

Tariff Act, 1934 . 
S .R .O . 1015, dated the Election Com nission , Election Petition No. 30 of 1954 . 
18th April 1956 . 

India . 
132 | $. R . O . 1016 , dited the Government of Ajmer. Amendments made in the rulos 
IstMly 1956 . 

published in Chief Commis 
sioner s Notification No . 617 
586 dated 28th May 1887 
and No. 4 / 1 / 50 - L . S . G , dated 
the 19th June 1991 in so far 
as they apply to the District 

Board , State of Almer , 
133 S. R . O . 1017, dated the Election Commission , Election Petition No. 7 of 1955. 
23rd April 1956 . 

India , 
134 | S .R . O . 1018 , dated the Ministry of Food and The Tripura Foodgring 
2nd May 1956 . Agriculture. 

(movement) Control Order 
1956 . 


135 | S . R . O . 1058 , dated the | Ministry of Finance 
3rd May 1956 . 

(Revenue Division ) 


136 


Ministry of Finance . 


S . R . O . 1059 , dated the 

4th May 1956 


Amendment in the notificato 
No, II. Customs, dated te 

12th August 1946, 
The Central Government directe 
that except with permission 
of the Reserve Bank no person 
shall bring or send into the 
States any silver coins 
current in the Tibet region 
of China. 


( 641 ) 


042 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


[PART II — Sec. 8 


No. and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


NO . 


137 | S .R . O . 1060 , dated the Miniatry of Food and 
4th May 1956 . 

Agriculture . 


The powers for the purpose of 

allowing deduction in the 
minimum price of sugarcanç 
shall be exercigable by the 
cane Commissioner of Uttar 
Pradesh . 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines , Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of these 
Gazettes 


PART 1 - Section 3 
Statutory Rules and Orders issued by the Ministries of the Government 

of India ( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and Central Authorition 
( other than the Chief Commissioners ) . 


MINISTRY OF LAW 

New Delhi, the 1st May 1956 
S .R . O . 1078. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Rule 1 of Order XXVII 
in the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act 7 of 1908 ) , the 
Central Government hereby directs that the following further amendment shall 
be made in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Law 
No. S . R . O . 1651, dated the 1st September , 1953 , relating to the appointment of 
oficers to sign or verify plaints and written statements in sults in any court of 
civil jurisdiction by or against the Central Government, namely : -- 

In the Schedule to the said notification , in Part VI, which relates to the 
Mintstry of Finance , under the head " Revenue Division " , after the entry " All 
Collectors of Customs" , the entry " Collector of Land Customs, Calcutta " shall be 
Inserted . 

[No. F.25 - 1/63 - G .] 
B . N . LOKUR , Joint Secy . 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS. 

New Delhi, the 4th May 1958 
S . R . O . 1079, - - In pursuance of the provisions of sub -section ( 2 ), of section 3 
ot the Abducted Persons ( Recovery and Restoration ) Act, 1949, LXV of 1949 , the 
Central Government hereby notifles , for the information of all concerned , that the 
Central Muslim Transit Camp , Jullundur, established in Punjab ( India ) , shall 
be a camp for the reception and temporary detention of abducted persons recover 
ed in India . 

[NO, AP - 780 / 58 .) 
C . M , SHARMA, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 2nd May 1956 
S . R . O . 1080 . — In pursuance of clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 1 ) and sub - section ( 4 ) 
of section 8 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 ( II of 1934 ) , the Central 


PART II — SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


643 


Government hereby re - appoints Shri Ram Nath as a Deputy Governor of the 
Reserve Bank of India for a term of three years, with effect from the 9th 
July , 1950 . 

[ No. F .3 ( 10 ) - FI / 56 . ] 

K . P . BISWAS , Under Secy . 
( Department of Company Law Administration ) 

New Delhi, the 1st May 1956 
S .R .O . 1081. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a ) of sub -section 
( 1 ) of section 448 of the Companies Act, 1956 ( I of 1956 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints Mr. Chandrika Prasad Sinha, Deputy Registrar of the High 
Court at Patna, ex - officio , to be the Official Liquidator attached to that Court, as 
a part - time officer, 

[No. 2 ( 12 ) - CL - III / 56 .) 


New Delhi, the 3rd May 1956 
S . R . O . 1082 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 448 of the Companies Act, 1956 ( I of 1956 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints Shri Ranjit Rai, the Registrar of the High Court of Punjab 
at Chandigarh , ex -officio , to be the Omcial Liquidator attached to that Court, as 
a part - time officer . 

[No. 2 ( 16 ) -CL - III / 56 . ] 
New Delhi, the 5th May 1956 
S . R . O . 1083 . In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) , of the section 448 , of the Companies Act , 1956 ( I of 1956 ) , the Central Gov 
ernment hereby appoints Shri Kanhiyalal Bohra , Deputy Registrar , High Court 
of Rajasthan at Jaipur, to be the Omcia ! Liquidator attached to the Court of 
Judicial Commissioner for Ajmer, as a part-time officer, 

[ No . 2 (13 )- CL - III/56.) 


S . R . O . 1084 , - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 448, of the Companies Act, 1956, ( I of 1956 ) , the Certral Govem 
ment hereby appoints Shri Kanhiyalai Bhora , Deputy Registrar of the High Court 
of Rajasthan at Jaipur, ex - offcio , to be the Omcial Liquidator attached to that 
Court, sitting both at Jaipur and Jcdhpur, as a part-time officer. 

[No. 2 ( 13 ) - CL - III /56 .) 
SHIV CHARAN SINGH , Dy. Secy . 


- -- - - - - - 


- - 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (REVENUE DIVISION ) 

CORRIGENDUM 

CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 12th May 1956 
S . R . O . 1085 . In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Finance ( Revenue Division ) , No. S . R . O . 495 dated the 1st March , 1956, published 
at pages 382 - 387 in Part II , Section 3 of the Gazette of India Extraordinary , of the 
same date , 
( I ) In Annexure I, in the table relating to Dimension for " 9 .0 " in the second 

column against " Thread on cap , read “ 9 .5 " ; 
( II ) In Annexure II , 
( a ) in paragraph ( 2 ) ( b ) (tv ) , for cased occurring in the first line, read 

eased : 
(b ) in paragraph (6) ( li) , for of occurring in the second line, read "0.06 ; 

and 
(c) in paragraph (5) (iii ), for + 0.3 , occurring in the second line, read 
" 20. 3 " . 

[No. 21.] 
W . SALDANHA , Dy. Secy . 


644 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


[PART II — SEC . 3 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 4th May 1956 
S . R . O . 1086 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub -section 
( 1 ) , of section 3 , of the Indian Medical Council Act , 1933 , (XXVII, of 1933 ) , the 
Central Government hereby nominates Dr, K . M . Lal, Director of Medical and 
Health Services, Uttar Pradesh , to be a member of the Medical Council of India , 
with effect from the 10th April, 1956 , vice Lt. col. (Honorary Colonel) , A . N . 
Chopra , resigned , 


[No. F .5 -51 / 56 -MI.] 
K . BIHARI, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 

(Transport Wing) 

MERCHANT SHIPPING 

New Delhi, the 1st May 1958 
S . R . O . 1087. - In pursuance of clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 213B of 
the Indian Merchant Shipping Act , 1923 (XXI of 1923 ) , the Central Government 
hereby declares that the Governments of Brazil and of Venezuela have accepted 
the Safety Convention as defined in clause ( d ) of section 213A of the said Act, 
that is to say, the Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea signed in London on 
the tenth day of June, nineteen hundred and fortyeight, as amended from time 
to time. 

[No. 46 -MA (4 ) / 86 .] 
S. K . GHOSH , Dy . Secy. 


( Transport Wing ) 

PORTS 

PORTS 

New Delhi, the 3rd May 1958 
S . R . O . 1088. -- In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( h ) of sub -section 
( 1 ) of Section 8 read with sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 13A ( 1 ) of the Madras 
Port Trust Act , 1905 (Madras Act II of 1906 ) , the Central Government hereby 
appoints the following persons as trustees on the Board of Trustees of the Port 
of Madras. 
1 . Shri N . Vijlarangam , 

Representatives of labour , 
2 . Shri C . Govindarajulu , 

[No . 13C - PI ( 11 ) / 56 .) 
K . NARAYANAN , Under Secy. 


( Transport Wing ) 

PORTS 
New Delhi, the 4th May 1956 


S . R . O . 1089. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of section 
3 of the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (XV of 1908 ) , the Central Government is pleased 
to authorise Shri P . P . Rye, Pllot, Kandla Port to pilot veggels upto 5000 tons 
gross ( excepting tankers and vessels loaded with explosives ) during day Ught 
only in and out of the Port of Kandla , 

[No. 2 -PII (46 ) / 56 .) 
D . A . R . WARRIAR , Under Secy . 


PART II — SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


MINISTRY OF PRODUCTION 

New Delhi, the 2nd May 1958 
S . R . O . 1090 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section 2 of the 
Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 ( 1 of 1894 ) , the Central Government 
hereby makes the following amendment in the notifications of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Production , No. S . R . O . 564 , dated 3 - 3 - 1956 , No. S . R . O . 
756, dated 31 - 3 - 1956 , No. S . R . O . 757, dated 31 - 3 - 1956 and No . S . R . O . 929 , dated 
8 - 4 - 1956 , namely : 

In para 3 of the said notifications for the words Chief Mining Engineer , State 
Collleries, Ministry of Production , Government of India , and his staff and work 
men , the following words shall be substituted , namely : 
" the Chief Mining Engineer, State Collieries , Ministry of Production , Gov 

ernment of India , the Director, Geological Survey of India , Ministry 
of Natural Resources & Scientific Research , Government of India , 
the Director, Indian Bureau of Mines, Ministry of Natural Resources 
and Scientific Research , Government of India , and their staff and 
workmen " . 

[No. C2 - 7 (5 ) / 65 . ] 
S . R . O . 1091. - In pursuance of sub - section ( 1) of section 15 of the Coal Mines 
( Conservation and Safety ) Act, 1952 (XII of 1952 ) , read with rule 20 of the 
Coal Mines ( Conservation and Safety ) Rules, 1954 , the Central Government 
hereby constitutes & Technical Advisory Committee (Mining) which shall 
consist of the following members, namely : - 

Chairman 
Shri M . L . Shome, Chief Mining Engineer /Member Secretary Coal Board . 

Members 
Shri G . S . Jabbi, Deputy Chief Inspector of Mines in India, Dhanbad an 

Inspector nominated by the Chief Inspector of Mines . 
Shri S . G . Krishnan , Mining Adviser , Government Railways. 
Shri D . R . S . Mehta , Assistant Director, Geological Survey of India 
Nominee of the Director of Geological Survey of India , 

Coopted Members 
Shri S . C . Ghosh , M /s . Tata Iron & Steel Co . Ltd ., 
Shri A . A . Beard , M / s. Bird & Co ., Representatives of the mining interests . 
Shri S . Mukherjee , Inspecting Omcer , Coal Board , will act as Secretary to 
the Committee. 

[No. 25 -CI (22) / 55 .) 


S .R . O . 1092 . - In exercise of the Power conferred by sub - section ( 1) of section 
15 of the Coal Mines ( Conservation and Safety ) Act, 1952 (XII of 1952) , read 
with rule 21 of the Coal Mines (Conservation and Safety ) Rules , 1954 , the Central 
Government hereby constitutes an Advisory Committee on Stowing, which shall 
consist of the following persons, namely : 

Chairman 
Shri P . M . Nayak , I.C .S ., Chairman , Coal Board . 


Members 
Shri S . S . Grewal, Chief Inspector of Mines in India , 
Shri A . N . Lahiri, Director, Fuel Research Institute, 
Shri W . H . S . Michelmore, 
M / 8 . Bird and Co., 
Shri R . P . Rosser , 
M / 8 , Bengal Coal Co. Ltd ., Representatives nominated by the Indian Mining 

Association . 
Shri Amritlal J . Chanchani, 136 - Canning Street, Calcutta , Representative 

nominated by the Indian Mining Federation . 


646 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1958 


[PART II.. Sec. 3 


Shri Rasciklal Worah , 135 , Canning Street, Calcutta , Representative 

nominated by the Indian Colliery Owners Association . 
Shri M . L . Shome, Chief Mining Engineer of the Board , has been nominated 
by the Chairman , as the Secretary to the said Committee . 

[No. 25 -CI ( 31 ) /65. ] 
A . NANU , Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

New Delhi, the 1st May 1956 
S . R . O . 1093. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (i ) of section 
6 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) , the 
Central Government, in consultation with the Custodian General of Evacuee 
Property , hereby appoints , for the State of Delhi, Shri P . N . Sehgal, Regional 
Settlement Commissioner , Delhi, as Custodian of Evacuee Property with effect 
from the afternoon of the 7th April 1956 . 

[ No . XVI - 21 (17 ) /56 – Prop .II.] 

J, J. KARAM , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 1st May 1956 
S .R . O . 1094 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1) of 
section 3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act , 1954 
( 44 of 1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri G . B . K . Hooja , I. A . S ., 
as Regional Settlement Commissioner , for the purpose of performing the 
functions assigned to such officer by or under the said Act , with effect from the 
date he took charge of his office . 

[ No. 5 / 11 / 56 - SII.] 


S . R . O . 1096 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 (44 of 
1954) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri H . R . Nair , as Additional 
Settlement Commissioner, for the purpose of performing the functions assigned 
to such commissioner by or under the said Act. 

[ No. 5 / 12/ 56 - SII.] 
New Delhi, the 2nd May 1956 
S . R . O . 1096 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 
1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Dwarka Dass Surias 
Regional Settlement Commissioner for the purpose of performing the functions 
assigned to such officer by or under the said Act, with effect from the date he 
took charge of his post , 

[No. 5 / 13 / 56 - SII (II) .] 


New Delhi, the 5th May 1956 
S . R . O . 1097. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Claims) Supplementary Act, 1954 (No. 12 of 1954 ) , the 
Central Government hereby appoints Servashri Sardari Lal Jain , M . R . Bhagat and 
R . N . Dhingra , as Settlement Officers for the purpose of performing the functions 
assigned to such officers by or under the said Act. with effect from the date they 
took charge of their office . 

The Central Government, also appoints the said officers as Additional Settle 
ment Commissioners for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such 
officers by or under the said Act, with effect from the same date . 

[No. 6 /5 /56 - SII (I). ] 
T . R . CHOPRA , Under Secy . 


PART II — SEC . 3 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1938 


647 


(Ofico of the Chief Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 4th May 1968 
S . R .O . 1098. - In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Sub - section (2 ) of 
Section 10 of the Displaced Persons (Claims) Supplementary Act , 1954, (XII of 
1954 ) , read with rule 99 of the rules framed under section 40 , of the Displaced 
Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 , (44 of 1954 ) , I delegate to 
Shn Mehar Singh Chaddah , Settlement Commissioner, with effect from 30th April , 
1956 , the following powers of the Chief Settlement Commissioner , namely : 
1. Power to allocate Rehabilitation Grant Applications to the Settlement 

Officers by general or special order under - section ( 1) of section 4 of 
the said Act . 


2 . Power to reguire a Settlement Officer to appoint one or more persons to 

advise him in any proceeding pending before him , under sub - section 
( 2 ) of Section 6 of the said Act . 


3. Power to transfer any Rehabilitation Grant Application pending before 

a Settlement Officer to another Settlement Officer under Section 7 of 
the said Act, 


4 . Power to call for the record of any case decided by the Settlement Officer 

and pass order in the case under provision to sub - section ( 3 ) of 
Section 4 of the said Act . 

[ No. 14 (11)CSC / Judl- 56 .] 

L . J. JOHNSON , Jt. Secy . 
and Chief Settlement Commissioner. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 
New Delhi, the 1st May 1958 


S . R . O . 1099 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947) , the Central Government hereby appoints , 
for a period of one year , the offcers mentioned in column 1 of the Table annexed 
hereto as conciliation officers for the quarrying Industry in the area specified in 
the corresponding entry in column 2 of the sald Table . 

TABLE 


Designation of officer. 


Teržltorjal jurisdiction , 


1, Conciliation Officer , Madhya 

Bharat, Ujjain , 


State of Madhya Bharat. 


2 . Assistant Commissioner of 

Labour, Shimoga Division 
Bhadravathi. 


Simoga District in the State of 
Mysore , 


[ No. L .R .1 ( 25 ) / 55.] 


New Delhi, the 5th May 1956 


S .R . O , 1100 , – In pursuance of paragraph 3 of the Coal Mines Provident Fund 
Scheme published with the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour, No . PF - 15 ( 5 ) 48, dated the 11th December , 1948 , the Central Govern 
ment hereby nominates Shri O . V . Ramadorai, Deputy Secretary to the Govern 
ment of India , Ministry of Finance, to the Board of Trustees and makes the 


648 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1958 


[ PART II SEC. 8 


following amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Labour, No. S .R .O . 2227, dated the 5th October, 1965 , namely : 
In the said notification , for the entry " ( 2 ) Shri N . V . Venkataraman , 

Deputy Secretary to the Government of India , Ministry of Finance " , 
the entry " ( 2 ) Shri O . V . Ramadorai, Deputy Secretary to the 
Government of India , Ministry of Finance , New Delhi" shall be 
substituted . 

[ No . PF - 4 (28) /66.) 
New Delhi, the 7th May 1956 
8 . R . O . 1101. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( XIV of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the All India Industrial Tribunal (Colllery Disputes ) Calcutta in the matter of an 
application under section 334 of the said Act from Shri Gobardhan Napit, of 
Bhowta Colliery . 
ALL INDIA INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (COLLIERY DISPUTES ), CALCUTTA 

APPLICATION No. 48 OF 1955 u / 9 . 33A OF THE I. D , ACT, 1947. 


PRESENT: 
Shri J . N . Majumdar , Chairman . 
Shri S . P . Chopra, Member. 
Shri T. N . Mallappa, Member . 

PARTIES : 
Shri Gobardhan Napit, Munshi, No. 4 Incline, Bhowra Collery , 

C / 0 . Eastern Coal Co . Collieries Workers Union , P . O . Jealgora , 
Manbhum , Bihar. - Applicant. 

Vs. 
The Agent, Bhowra Colllery, P . O . Jealgora, Manbhum , Bihar. 
Opposite Party . 

APPEARANCES: 
Shri Lalit Burman . - for the Applicant. 
Shri S . P , Saha, Law Officer , assisted by Shri Madan Lal Pandit, Wel 
fare Officer of the Co . for the Opp . Party . 

AWARD 
Dated , the 29th March , 1986 . 


This is an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
Aled by Shri Gobardhan Napit , Munshi No. 4 Lncline, Bhowra Colllery seeking 
relief against his dismissal from the employment of the opposite party . The 
opposite party has filed a reply statement. It is not necessary to go into the 
merits of the case as the parties have settled the dispute as follows : 
The Applicant accepts retrenchment on the following terms: 

( 1) That the Company will give him a clean certificate. 
( 2 ) That Shri Madan Lal, the Welfare Omcer will try his best to procure a 

job for the applicant. 
( 3 ) That in full and final settlement of the applicant s claim , the company 

undertakes to pay him Rs. 1100 / - on his calling at the Colllery office 

at any time during office hours on the 29th March , 1966 . 
In the result we pass an award in terms of the above . 

( Sd .) J. N . MAJUMDAR , Chairman . 
( Sd .) S . P . CHOPRA , Member. 
(Sd .) T. N . MALLAPPA , Member . 

[No. LRII -85 - 2 (2 ) / - II.) 


PART II — SEC: 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , WXY 12, 1956 


$ 49 


New Delhi, the 8th May 1958 
S . R . O . 1101. - - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947) , 
the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the All India Industrial Tribu : 
mal ( Colliery Disputes ), Calcutta in the matter of an application under section 33A of the said Act 
from Shri Banwari Dhobi and others of Banladih Workshop of Giridih Coller 

ALL INDIA INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL ( COLLIERY DISPUTES), CALCUTTA 


APPLICATION No. 6 OF 1955 (U /8 33A OF THE ACT) 


PRESENT : 


Shri J. N .Majumdar Chairman . 
Shri S . P . Chopra - Member . 
Shri T . N . Mallappa - Member. 


PARTIES : 


Name 


Designation 


Address 


Applicant 


1 Banwari Dhobi 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Do. 


Mechanic , 
Banladih 
Workshop 
of Giridih 
Colllery 

Do. 


The Coal 
Workers 
Union 
Giridih 


. 


. 


Do. 


. 


Do 


. 


. 


. 


Do . 


. 


. 


. 


Do. 


. 


. 


Do. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Do. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Do. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Do. 


. 


. 


. 


Do. 


. 


. 


. 


Do. 
Do. 


Do 


. 


. 


. 


2 Chamroo Dohar . 
3 Durga Hazam 
4 Govind Gope . 
5 Butto Dusadh 
6 Kahar Gope 
7 Bux Meah 
8 Akuf Meah 
9 Misri Hazam 
IO Madhu Dag 
II Chunak Sekh 
12 Kannu Teli 
13 Jagar Nath Hazam 
14 S . D . Misra 
15 Jagdish Labar 
16 Kamaleshwar Prasad 
17 Muhabir Dhobi 
18 Ram Kishup Kumar 
19 Monilal Lohar . 
20 Chintamnani Lobar 
21 Ram Kishun Lohar 
22 Banu Barhi 
23 Dhananjoy Prosad 
24 Dabarat Meah 
25 Pir Bux Mean 
26 Bhatu Gope 
27 Gazo Lal Lohar . 


Do. 


. 


Do. 


Do. 


DO 


. 


Do . 


. 


. 


. 


Do. 
Do. 


. 


Do. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Do. 


Do. 


. 


Do. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Do. 
Ꭰo 
Do. 


. 


Do. 
Do. 


. 


Do . 


. 


. 


. 


Do. 


. 


. 


. 


Do. 


. 


. 


Do. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


DO. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Do . 
Do. 


Do . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Do . 


. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1968 


(PART II - Sec. 3 


Vs. 


1. The Chief Mining Engineer, Railway Board , 1, Council House Street, Calcutta. 
2 . Superintendent of Collierics, Giridih - Opp . Party 


APPEARANCE : 


AWARD 


Dated the 20th February, 1956 
This is an application under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947 by Shri Ban 
wari Dhobi & 26 others against the Chief Mining Engineer , Railway Board , and the Colliery Sup 
crintendent, Giridih Collleries. A reply statement has been filled by the Superintendent of Col 
Jieries, Giridih . But it is not necessary to go into the merits of the dispute as the applicants have 
addressed a petition to the Tribunal sceking its permission to withdraw the application as they do 
pot desire to contest the case . The Additional Chief Mining Engincer , State Collieries has writ 
ten to say that there is no objection to the Tribunal passing an Award permitting the withdrawal 
as desired by the applicants . Under the circumstances , we dismiss the application . 


(Sd .) J. N . MAJUMDAR , Chairman . 


(Sd .) S . P . CHOPRA , Member. 


(Sd .) T . N . MALLAPPA , Member. 


[No. LR II -35 - 2 (2 )/ 56 - 1.) 


R . C . SAKSENA , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 18t May 1956 


S . R . O . 1103 . - The following draft of an amendment to the Coal Mines Labour 
Welfare Fund Rules , 1949, which the Central Government proposes to make in 
exercise of the powers conferred by section 10 of the Coal Mines Labour Welfare 
Fund Act, 1947 (XXXII of 1947 ) , is published as required by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
the said section for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby 
and notice is hereby given that the draft will be taken into consideration on or 
after the 10th June 1936 . 


Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person in respect 
of the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the Central 
Government. 


Draft Amendment 


In sub -rule ( 3 ) of rule 21 of the said rules , for the words " any new welfare 
and housing scheme" , the words " any welfare and housing scheme shall be 
substituted . 


[No . CLFR / AM (MI- 1 (1) 66.] 
P . D . COMMAR , Under Secy . 


PART 11- - Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1966 


651 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

New Delht the 28th April 1956 
S . R . O . 1104 . - In exercise of the powers conferred on meby clause 20 of the Cotton Control Order 
1955 and with the previous sanction of the Central Government, I, V . Nanjappa Textile Com . 
missioner, hereby authorisc , in supersession of the notifications of the Textile Commissioner No. 
S . R . O . 875 dated the 7th November , 1950 and No . S . R . O . 3620 dated the 30th November. Tore 
each of the officers specificd in column ( 2 ) of the Schedule appended to this notification to 
ercise on my behalf the functions and powers of the Textile Commissioner under the clause 
the said Order specified in the corresponding entry in column ( 3 ) of that Schedule. 


SCHEDULE 


Designations of Officers , 


Clausc . 


(3) 


og 
el 
ini 


Cotton Adviser, Office of the Textile Commissioner , Bombay 

5 , 6 and 70 ) 
( 1 ) Cotton Adviser , Office of the Textile Commissioner , Bombay . | 12 and 1311) 
(2 ) All Licencing Authorities appointed by the various State 

Governments. 
(3 ) All Collectors of Districts in the Madſås State, 

All Revenue Divisional Officers in the Madras State. 
( 5) The Sub - Collector, Pollachi in the Madras State . 
TO The Commissioner, Civil Supplies, Government of Rajas 

than , Jaipur . 
The Additional Director of Civil Supplies, Government of 
Patiala and East Punjab States Union , Patiala . 
All Deputy Commissioners in the Patiala and East Punjab 

States Union , 
(9) The Assistant Commissioner ( Textiles ) in the Patiala and East 

Punjab States Union , 
(10 ) The Assistant Controller of Civil Supplies, Government of 

Mysore , Bangalore . 
( 1) Deputy Director (Cotton ) Office of the Textile Commissioner, 

Bombay . 
(2 ) All Licensing Authorities appointed by the various State 

Governments, 
(3) Industrial Adviser ( Textile Production) office of the Textile 

Commissioner , Bombay 
(4) Director (Production & Development) Office of the Textile 

Commissioner, Bombay . 
(5 ) Deputy Director (Production & Development) Office of the 

Textilc Commissioner, Bombay, 
(6 ) Agsistant Director (Production & Development) Office of the 

Textile Commissioner, Bombay . 
(7 ) Deputy Director (Production ) Bombay Region , Bombay . 
(8 ) Director (Production ), Regional Directorate of Production , 

Branch Office of the Textile Commissioner , Ahmedabad. 
(9 ) Assistant Director (Production ), Regional Directorate of Pro 

duction , Branch Office of the Textile Commissioner, 

Ahmedabad 
( 10 ) Deputy Director (Production ), Regional Directorate of Pro 

duction , Branch Office of the Textile Commissioner, Indore . 
( II) Assistant Director (Production ), Regional Directorate of 

Production , Branch Office of the Textile Commissioner , 

Indore , 
( 12 ) Deputy Director (Production ), Regional Directorate of 

Production , Branch Office of the Textile Commissioner, 

Капрr. 
( 13 ) Assistant Director (Production ), Regional Directorate of 

Production , Branch Office of the Textile Commissioner , 

Kanpur, 
( 14 ) Deputy Director (Production ), Regional Directorate of Pro 

duction , Branch Office of the Textile Commissioner , Calcutta . 


652 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1958 


[ PART II --Src. $ 


(1) 


( 2) 


( 3 ) 


( 15 ) Assistant Director (Production ) , Regional Directorate of 

Production , Branch Office of the Textile Commissioner , 

Calcutta . 
( 16 ) Deputy Director (Production ), Regional Directorate of Pro 

duction , Branch Office of the Textile Commissioner, Coim 

batore . 
( 17) Assistant Director (Production ), Regional Directorate of 

Production , Branch Office of the Textile Commissioner, 

Coimbatore . 
( 18 ) Special Officer ( Textile ), Office of the Director of Industries 

and Commerce, Madras State, Madras. 


V . NANȚAPPA , 
Textile Commissioner, 


[ No. 24 ( 22 )-CT (A )/55-6 .) 
V . V . NENE , Under Secy . 


COFFEE CONTROL 

New Delhi, the 4th May 1956 
S .R . O . 1105 . - Shri M . R . Appu Menon , Secretary, Coffee Board , Bangalore, has 
been granted earned leave for twenty - three days with effect from 20th March , 
1986 to 11th April, 1956 , with permission to suffix the holidays on the 12th and 
13th April, 1966 . 

[No. 13 (9 ) Plant / 56 .) 
TEA CONTROL 

New Delhi, the 7th May , 1956 
S . R . O , 1106 .-- - The following draft of an amendment in the Tea Rules , 1954 , 
which the Central Government proposes to make in exercise of the powers con 
ferred by section 49 of the Tea Act, 1963 (29 of 1953 ) is published as required 
by sub - section ( 1 ) of the said section for the information of all persons likely 
to be affected thereby ; and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken 
into consideration on or after 28th May, 1958 . 

2 . Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 

Draft amendment 
In rule 6 of the said Rules 

(i) the proviso shall be omitted ; 
( 11 ) after sub - rule (2 ) , the following sub- rule shall be inserted , namely ; 
" ( 8 ) The office of a member of the Board or the Committee shall fall 

vacant from the date on which his resignation is accepted or on 
the expiry of 30 days from the date of receipt of intimation of 
resignation whichever is earlier ." 

[No. 32 ( 2 ) Plant / 86 .] 
P . V . RAMASWAMY, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 7th May 1956 
S . R . O . 1107 . /DRA / 10 / 2 / 56 . In exercise of the powers conferred by sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industries ( Development and Regulation ) Act , 1951 
(LXV of 1951) , the Central Government hereby fixes a period of eight months from 
the date of this notification , as the period within which the owner of every existing 
industrial undertaking pertaining to the steel forgings industry not being the 
Central Government, shall register the undertaking in the prescribed manner . 

[ No. 4 (8) IA (GA ) /63.] 


PART IL - SEC , 8 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1956 


653 


S . R . O . 1108 . / DDRA /29B / 2 /88 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
29B of the Industries ( Development and Regulation ) Act, 1951 (LXV of 1951) , the 
Central Government hereby makes the following amendment in the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry , S . R . O . 
No. 816 , dated the 8th March , 1954, namely : 

In the said notification , after entry 33 , the following entry shall be inserted , 
namely : 
" 34 . Steel Forgings." 

[No. 4 (6 ) IA (GA ) / 53 .] 
D . N , KRISHNAMURTHY, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 8th May 1956 

IRON AND STEEL (CONTROL ) ORDER , 1958 
S .R . O . 1109 . /ESS. COMM / IRON AND STEEL . - In exercise of the powers con 
terred by section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) and in 
supersession of all previous Orders on the subject, the Central Government 
hereby makes the following Order : - 

PART I - PRELIMINARY 
1. (1 ) This Order may be called the Iron and Steel ( Control) Order, 1956 . 
( 2) It extends to the whole of India , except the State of Jammu and Kashmir . 

( 3 ) It shall come into force with effect from the date on which this Order is 
notifled in the Gazette of India . 

2 . Definitions. - In this Order , unless the context otherwise requires : 
( a ) " controlled source " means: 

( 1) a producer , 
( li ) a Railway Administration , 
( iil ) any factory , local authority , scrap merchant or person declared by the 

Controller to be "Controlled Source " . 
( b ) " controlled stockholder " meany a stockholder appointed by the Controller 
to hold stocks of iron or steel under such terms and conditions as he may prescribe 
from time to time. 

( c ) " controller " means the person appointed as Iron and Steel Controller by 
the Central Government and includes any person exercising, upon authorisation 
by the Central Government, all or any of the powers of the Iron and Steel 
Controller. 

( d ) " factory " means a factory as defined in clause ( m ) of section 2 of the 
Factories Act , 1948 (LXIII of 1948 ) , other than a factory managed by a producer 
or a Railway Administration , 

( e ) " local authority " shall have the meaning assigned to it by sub - section 
( 28 ) of Section 3 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 ( X of 1897 ) . 

( 1 ) " pressure pipes" Includes all pipes and tubes of 1 / 8 in . nominal bore and 
above which will withstand or may be used for a working pressure of 25 lbs. per 
square inch and above . 

( 8 ) " producer” means a person carrying on the business of manufacturing Iron 
or steel. 

(h ) " registered producer " means a producer who is registered as such by the 
Controller . 

( i) " stockholder " means a person holding stocks of Iron or steel for sale who 
is registered as a stockholder by the Controller. 

(J ) " scrap " means all iron or steel material which is commonly known as 
scrap and includes defective iron or steel material whether it is suitable only for 
re - rolling or re -melting or can be used for other purposes . 

Explanation . A certifcate signed by the Controller or any officer authorised 
by him in this behalf shall be conclusive proof that the material in respect of 
which the certificate is issued is " Scrap " for the purpose of this Order . 


654 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1966 


[ PART II- - Sec . 3 


( k ) " scrap merchant" means a person other than & producer ( including a 
Registered Producer ) , who carries on the business of acquiring, sorting and 
classifying scrap for disposal. 


PART II - IRON AND STEEL -- PRIME QUALITY 
3. ( 1 ) Application of this part.- - The provisions of this part shall apply to all 
Iron and steel of the categories specified in the Schedule to this Order : 

Provided that the Provisions of this Part shall not apply to any fabricated 
iron or steel of the categories specified in the said Schedule when such fabrication 
is done under the authority of or in accordance with the conditions contained or 
incorporated in a general or special written order of the Controller or under the 
authority of a quota certificate or permit issued under clauses 4 or 5 , as the case 
may be. 

( 2 ) A certificate signed by the Controller or by any officer authorised by him 
In this behalf , in respect of any category of iron or steel, shall be conclusive proof 
that it is an article to which this Part is applicable . 

4 . Acquistion - No person shall acquire or agree to acquire any iron or steel 
from a producer or stockholder except under the authority of and in accordance 
with the conditions contained in a quota certificate or permit issued by the Con 
troller or under the authority of and in accordance with the conditions contained 
or incorporated in a general or special written order of the Controller . 

5 . Disposal. - No person , who acquires Iron or steel under Clause 4 , or no 
producer shall dispose of or agree to dispose of or export or agree to export from 
any place to which this Order extends any iron or steel, except in accordance 
with the conditions contained or incorporated in a special or general written 
order of the Controller . 

6 . Carriers , warehousemen and servants . For the purposes of clauses 4 and 5 
any acquisition by or disposal to a carrier or warehouseman or servant acting in 
the ordinary course of business or employment as such of any iron and steel shall 
be deemed to be only an acquisition by or disposal to the person on whose behalf 
or to whose order the carrier, warehouseman or servant so acquired that steel 
and any acquisition from or disposal by a carrier or warehouseman or servant 
acting as aforesaid of any iron or steel shall be deemed to be only an acquisition 
from or disposal by the person on whose behalf or to whose order the carrier , 
warehouseman or servant so disposes of that steel, 

7 . Use of Iron and Steel to conform to conditions governing acquisition . A 
person acquiring iron or steel in accordance with the provisions of clause 4 shall 
not use the iron or steel otherwise than in accordance with any conditions con 
tained or incorporated in the document which was the authority for the 
acquisition : 

Provided that notwithstanding porvisions of this part or the conditions govern 
ing the acquisition of any categories of iron or steel, the Controller may, by & 
written order , require any person holding stocks of Iron or steel either to release 
by way of loan or sell the whole or any part of the stock to such person or class 
of persoas on such terms and conditions as may be specified in the order , 

In the exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso , the Controller may 
have regard to the following matters , namely : 

( a ) the requirements of the persons holding such stocks ; 
(b ) the requirements of the persons needing such stocks; 
( c ) transport facilities avallable ; and 
( d ) any other factor including a strike or lock -out affecting production or 

fabrication 
8 . Şurrender of revoked authorſtleg . — Where any quota certificate , permit or 
written order , referied to in clause 4 or 5 is revoked by the authority which issued 
it , the person to whom It was issued shall forthwith return it to the authority 
which issued it. 

9 . Surrender of authorities at the time of acquisition , - A person disposing of 
fron or steel in accordance with the provisions of clause 6 shall obtain from the 
person acquiring the steel the document which is the authority for the disposal 
and acquisition and shall preserve it, and when so required shall deliver it to the 
Controller or to such person as the Controller may direct. 


PART II — SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


655 


10 . Power to direot sale - - The Controller may, by a written order, require any 
person holding stock of iron and steel, acquired by him otherwise than in 
accordance with the provisions of clause 4 , to sell the whole or any part of the 
stock to such person or class of persons and on such terms and conditions as 
may be specified in the Order . 

11 . Power to prohibit Removal, — The Controller may order any producer ( In 
cluding a registered producer ) , any stockholder ( including a controlled stock 
holder ) or any other person not to remove or permit the removal of any iron or 
steel, whether sold or unsold , from his stockyard or from any other part of his 
premises to any place outside the precincts of such stockyard or premises , except 
with the written permission of the Controller, 

12 . Power to requlre keeping of accounts and to obtain information . - ( 1 ) Every 
Producer and every stockholder and other person holding stocks of iron or steel 
shall keep such books, accounts and records relating to the business carried on 
by him as the Controller may require. 

( 2 ) Every producer or stockholder or person holding stock of iron or steel and 
every person employed in connection with the business of a producer or stock 
holder cr person holding stocks of iron or steel, shall on being requested 80 to 
do , either by notice served on him or special or general direction issued by the 
Controller : 


( a ) produce to such person such stocks of iron or steel and such accounts 

and other documents and within such period as may be specified in 

the notice or direction ; 
(b ) furnish to the Controller such estimates , returns and other information 

relating to the business and within such period as may be specified in 

the notice or direction , 
13. The Controller may , where he is satisfied that such action is necessary 
in order to co - ordinate the production of iron or steel with the demands for iron 
or steel which have arisen or are likely to arise under authorisations to acquire 
duly issued under this part: 
( a ) prohibit , with effect from such date as he may specify, the manufacture 

by any producer of iron or steel of any of the categories specified 
in the Schedule to this Order , otherwise than in accordance with 

any general or special directions issued by the Controlleri 
( b ) require, with effect from such date and with reference to such periods 

as the Controller may specify , any producer to obtain approval to his 
programme of manufacture of iron or steel of any of the categories 

specified in the Schedule to this Order ; 
( c ) require, with effect from such date as the Controller may specify, any 

Producer to manufacture iron or steel of such categories as he is 
capable of manufacturing in accordance either with Programmes of 
production approved under sub - clause ( b ) of this clause or with 

special Instructions issued by the Controller . 
14 . ( 1 ) The Controller may by order in writing direct any stockholder or other 
person holding stocks of iron or steel to maintain a list of the godowns and stock 
yards with the boundaries thereof, where iron or steel belonging to him is stocked , 
and to exhibit such list on his business premises . The Controller may in any such 
order give directions as to the manner in which the order is to be carried out. 


( 2 ) The Controller may, by notification in the official Gazette, direct that 
every producer , stockholder or other person holding stocks of iron or steel when 
selling any fron or steel shall give to the purchaser a memorandum containing the 
particulars specified in such notification , 

( 3 ) No producer , stockholder, or other person holding stocks of Iron and steel, 
shall, without sufficient cause , refuse to sell any Iron or steel which he is authoris 
ed to sell under this Part. 

Explanation . The possibility or expectation of obtaining a higher price at a 
later date shall not be deemed to be a sufficient cause for the purpose of this 
clause, 

15 . Power to fix prices. ( 1 ) The Controller may form time to time by noti 
Acation in the Gazette of India , fix the maximum prices at which any iron or 
steel may be sold ( a ) by a producer , ( b ) by a stockholder including a controlled 


696 


THE GAME OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1956 


[PART II — SEC. 8 


stockholder and ( c ) by any other person or class of persons. Such price or prices 
may differ for iron and steel obtainable from different sources and may include 
allowances for contribution to and payment from any Equalisation Fund establish 
ed by the Controller for equalising freight, the concession rates payable to each 
producer or class of producers under agreements entered into by the Controller 
with the producers from time to time, and any other disadvantages . The Con 
troller may also , by a general or special order in writing , require any person or 
class of persons enumerated above to pay such amount on account of allowances 
for contribution to any Equalisation Fund , within such period and in such manner 
as the Controller may direct in this behalf . 

( 2 ) For the purpose of applying the prices notified under sub - clause ( 1 ) the 
Controller may himself classify any iron and steel and may, if no appropriate 
price has been so notified , fix such price as he considers appropriate: 

Provided that where any stocks are required by a special order of the Con . 
troller to be moved from one place to another or are to be sold at a place which 
is not connected with any railhead , the Controller may direct that the maximum 
prices fixed under sub - clause ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) , shall not apply to such stocks and may , 
in respect of such stocks, specity the maximum prices at which the iron or steel 
may be sold . 

( 3 ) No producer or stockholder or other person shall sell or offer to sell, and 
TlO person shall acquire , any Iron or steel at a price exceeding the maximum prices 
Axed under sub -clause ( 1) or ( 2 ) . 

16 . Power to control the creation of new productive capacity . - - No persons shall, 
except under the authority of, and in accordance with the conditions specified in , 
general or special order of the Controller: 
( a ) erect , re - erect, construct or extend any buildings or works intended for 

the production of iron or steel; 
(b ) Instal any plant or equipment, including any machine tools for the pro . 

duction of iron or steel, 
17 . Power of Central Government to give dtroctions. The Central Government 
may give directions as to the procedure to be followed by the authorities issuing 
quota certificates , permits or written orders , referred to in Clauses 4 and 5 , as to 
the msintenance by the Controller of records in connection with the distribution 
of Iron or steel and generally for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of 
this part, 

PART III- DEFECTIVES AND SCRAP 
18 . Acquisition of Sorap.- - No producer shall acquire or agree to acquire any 
scrap except under the authority of and in accordance with the conditions con 
tained or incorporated in a written Order of the Controller , and no person or 
authority other than a producer shall acquire or agree to acquire any scrap from 
a controlled source gave under the authority of and in accordance with the con 
ditions contained or incorporated in a written order of the Controller . 

19 . Use of Sorap to conform to conditions governing acquisition . - A person 
acquiring scrap in accordance with the provisions of Clause 18 shall not use it 
otherwise than in accordance with any conditions contained or incorporated in 
the document which was the authority for the acquisition , 

20 . Dløposal of Scrap . - No person or authority having the management of a 
controlled source shall sell or otherwise dispose of any scrap save under the 
authority of ani in accordance with the conditions contained or incorporated in & 
written order of the Controller, 

21. Carriers , warehousemen , and servants. For the purpose of clausęs 18 and 
20 any acquisition by or disposal to a carrier, warehouseman or servant acting 
in the ordinary course of his business or employment as guch of any scrap shall 
be deemed to be only an acquisition by or disposal to the person on whose behalt 
or to whose order the carrier, warehouseman or servant go acquires that scrap ; 
and any acquisition from or disposal by a carrier, warehouseman or servant acting 
as atoresaid of any scran shall be deemed to be only an acquisition from or dig . 
posal by the person on whose behalf or to whose order the carrier , warehouseman 
or servant so disposes of that scarp . 

22 . Power to direot sale . - The Controller may, by a written order , require any 
person holding stock of scrap , Acquired by him otherwise than in accordance with 
the provisions of clause 18 to sell the whole or any part of the stock to such person 


PART II SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1956 


657 


or class of persons and on such terms and conditions as may be specified in the 
Order , 

23 . Power to prohibit removal. — The Controller may order any controlled 
source , scrap merchant or any other person not to remove or permit the removal 
of any scrap , whether sold or unsold , from his stockyard or from any other part 
of his premises to any place outside the precincts of such stockyard or premises 
except with the written permission of the Controller . 

24 . Regulation of controlled sources. — The Controller may from time to time 
issue directions to the person or authority having the management of any controlled 
source requiring him : 


( a ) to keep such books, accounts , and records relating to his business 

as the Controller may specify in the direction ; 
(b ) to produce to such person as may be mentioned in the direction such 

stocks of scrap and such accounts and other documents as the Con 

troller may specify in the direction ; 
( c ) to furnish to the Controller such estimates , returns ond other infor 

mation relating to the business as may be mentioned in the direction ; 
( d ) to sort the scrap in his possession from time to time in accordance with 

such classification as may be mentioned in the direction , 
25 . Declarations, written orders and directions. - ( 1 ) Declarations under clause 
2 ( a ) und directions under clause 24 shall be in writing and shall be delivered to 
the person or authority concerned personally or by registered post . 

( 2 ) Written orders under clause 18 or clause 20 may be made by the Controller 
on application or of his own motion and shall be delivered to the person or 
authority concerned personally or by registered post. 

( 3 ) The person or authority to whom a direction or written order is addressed 
shall comply with the same, and with any conditions contained or incorporated 
therein . 

4 . When a written order is revoked by the Controller , the person or authority 
to whom it was addressed shall forthwith return it to the Controller . 

26 . ( 1 ) The Controller may by order in writing direct any controlled source 
or scrap merchant or other person holding stocks of scrap to maintain a list of 
the godowns and stockyards with the boundaries thereof, where scrap belonging 
to him is stocked , and to exhibit such list on his business premises . The Con 
troller may in any such order give directions as to the manner in which the 
order is to be carried out. 

( 2 ) The Controller may, by notification in the Gazette of India , direct that 
every controlled source , scrap merchant or other person holding stocks of scrap 
when selling any scrap shall give to the purchaser a memorandum containing the 
particulars specified in such notification . 

27 . Controller s power to fix priceg. - ( 1 ) The Controller shall from time to 
time with the approval of the Central Government publish by notification in 
the Gazette of India prices for different classes of scrap . Such prices may differ 
for scrap obtainable from different persons and classes of persons, may specify 
buyers and sellers prices and may include allowances for contributions to any 
Equalisation fund established by the Controller for equalising freight and other 
disadvantages . 

( 2 ) For the purpose of applying the prices notified under sub - clause ( 1 ) of 
this clause , the Controller may himself classify any scrap and , may, If no appro 
priate price has been so notified , fix such price as he considers appropriate . 

Provided that the Controller may direct that the maximum prices fxed under 
sub - clauses ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) shall not apply to any specified stocks of scrap held by 

vays or any other department of Government including Government Cor 
porations, like Sindri Fertilisers & Chemicals Limited , Hindustan Steel Limited 
and the like, and may , in respect of such stocks specify the maximum prices at 
which such scrap may be sold . 

( 3 ) When an accumulation of scrap contains heavy pieces which in the opinion 
of the Controller should be broken up before the scrap is disposed of, the Con 
troller may direct the person or authority having the management of the con 
trolled source concerned to break up the scrap to a suitable size, and may , if his 
direction is not complied with , reduce the price of the scrap so as to cover the 
cost to the purchaser of breaking it up . 


658 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


(PART II — Sec . % 


(4 ) No person shall sell or offer to sell or otherwise dispose of, and no person 
shall acquire , any scrap at prices in excess of those notificd or fixed by the 
Controller under this clause . 

PART IV - GENERAL 
28 . Powers of the Controller. — The Controller may , with a view to securing 
compliance with this Order : 
( a ) require any person to give such information in his possession in respect 

of stocks of iron or steel or of scrap acquired by him or in respect of 

any business carried on by that or any other person : 
( b ) inspect or cause to be inspected any stocks of iron or steel or of scrap 

held by any person and any books or other documents belonging to 

or under the control of any person ; 
( c ) enter and search , or authorise any person to enter and search , any 

premises and seize any article in respect of which he has reason to 
believe that a contravention of this Order has been , is being or is 
about to be committed , and any other article in the premises which 
he has reason to believe has been or is intended to be used in con 

nection with such contravention , 
29 . Savings . — Notwithstanding the supersession of the Iron and Steel (Con 
trol of Production and Distribution ) Order , 1941 and the Iron and Steel ( Scrap 
Control ) Order , 1943, any order or appointment made, licence or permit granted , 
quota certificate or direction issued by any authority whatsoever , under either of 
the above orders , and in force immediately before the commencement of this 
Order , shall be deemed as to be the order or appointment made, the licence or 
permit granted , the quota certificate or direction issued under this Order and 
khall continue to be in force. 

THE SCHEDULE 

(See Clause 3 ) 

Iron and Steel to which Part II applies 
Pig Iron. 
Ingots, Blooms, Billets, Tin Bars, Sheet Bars, and Slabs. 
Steel castings. 
Heavy structurals ( including heavy sections of joists, channels and angles ) . 

Light structurals (including light sections of joists , channels , angles, tees and 
Ught Tails of 30 lbs, and under ) . 

Tyres, Wheels and Axles , 
Shell steel Ingots , Blooms, Billets and Bars, 
Heavy rails (over 30 lbs), Fishplates , Dogspikes, Chair spikes, Screw spikes, 
Tinplate, Terneplate. 
Black sheets (Plain and corrugated ) , 
Galvanised sheets (Plain and corrugated ) . 
Plates ( Shipbuilding ) . 
Plates (Ordinary mild steel and tensile ). 
Plates (Bullet -Proof ) . 
Bars (including flats, squares, rounds, hexagons and rods ). 
Bolts ( including Fish Bolts ), Nuts and Rivets , 
Black or Galyanised Wire , whether plain or barbed . 
Wire Nails. 
Wire (Miscellaneous ) 
Hoops and Strips. 
Spring Steel in any unfabricated or semi- fabricated form . 
Tool Stcel in any unfabricated or semi- fabricated form . 
Wrought Iron pressure pipes and tubes , steel pressure pipes and tubes . 

Wrought Iron fittings, malleable iron Attings and steel fittings, coated or 
uncoated , cxcluding electrical conduit pipes . 

Cast Iron Pressure Pipes and Specials. 
Wire Ropes, 

( No. SC ( A )- 4 ( 253 ). ] 


PART II — SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1956 


659 


S .R . O . 1110 . / ESS .COMM . / IRON & STEEL - 4 & 5 . - - The following Notification 
issued by the Iron and Steel Controller under clauses 4 and 5 of the Iron and 
Steel (Control) Order , 1956, is hereby published for general information : 

" NOTIFICATION 
In pursuance of the provisions of clauses 4 and 5 of the Iron and Steel ( Control) 
Order, 1956 , and in supersession of all previous notifications on the subject, I 
hereby authorise that, subject to the general conditions set out below : 
( 1 ) any person may acquire , without permit, the articles specified in item 

( a ) of the following entries from the persons specified in item ( b ) 

of the said entries from the stocks mentioned in item ( c ) : 
( II ) the persons specified at item (b ) of the following entries may dispose 

of, without permit, the articles specified in Item ( a ) of the said 

entries from the stocks mentioned in item ( c ) : 
1. ( a ) (1 ) Tyres, Wheels and Axles. 

( 2 ) Dog - spikes . 
( 3 ) Bolts ( including Fish Bolts ) , Nuts and Rivets . 
( 4 ) Wire Nails. 
(5 ) Tool Steel in any unfabricated or semi- fabricated form . 
( 6 ) Cast Iron Pressure Pipes and Specials . 
( 7) Wire Ropes. 
(8 ) Any variety of Pipes, Tubes and Fittings (Indigenous or 

imported ) ; 
(b ) any person ; 

( c ) any stocks . 
2. ( a ) Black Sheets ( Plain ,) Galvanised Sheets ( Plain ), Galvanised 

Sheets (Corrugated ) and Plates — any quantity ; 
any stockholder other than a Registered Producer or a Controlled 
Stockholder; 
from stocks held for a period exceeding 90 days, or for a lesser 
period if the State Licensing Authority so orders , from the date of 
receipt by the State Steel Licensing Authority of Arst Intimation 
of such stocks, but which remain either ( a ) uncovered by permits 
or ( b ) covered by issue of permits, but for which no financial 
arrangements have been made by the allottecs within the period 

of validity of the permits issued . 
3 . ( a ) Iron and Steel ( other than the articles specified in items 1 ( a ) 

and 2 ( a ) above ) any quantity : 
( b ) any stockholder other than a Registered Producer or a Controlled 

Stockholder ; 


( c ) from stocks held for a period exceeding 60 days from the date of 

receipt by the State Steel Licensing Authority of first intimation 
of such stocks, but which remain either ( a ) uncovered by permits 
or (b ) covered by issue of permits , but for which no financial 
arrangements have been made by the allottees within the period 

of validity of the permits issued . 
The above authorisations shall be subject to the following general conditions: 

( 1) All acquisitions and disposals shall be made within the Union of India ; 
( ii ) Statutory selling prices , if any, shall not be exceeded ; 
(ii) Every Stockholder other than a Controlled Stockholder or a Registered 

Producer shall submit, at the end of each calendar month , to the 
State Steel Licensing Authority concerned, a return of transactions 
under entries 2 and 3 above, together with the balance of stocks in 
hand , indicating the number and date of the letter of intimation 
referred to in the entricg 2 ( c ) and 3 ( c ) above , so as to reach the 
State Steel Licensing Authority not later than the 10th of the 
succecding month . 

C . R . NATEȘAN , 
Iron and Steel Controller. 

[No. SC ( A ) - 4 (253 ) / A . ] 


650 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


[PART II — Sec. 8 


S . R . O . 1111 / ESS. COMM . / IRON & STEEL - 14 ( 2 ) & 26 ( 2 ) , The following Notifica 
tion issued by the Iron and Steel Controller under sub - clause ( 2 ) of clause 14 and 
sub - clause ( 2 ) of clause 26 of the Iron and Steel ( Control ) Order , 1956 , is hereby 
published for general information : 

" NOTIFICATION 
In exercise of the powers conferred on me by sub - clause ( 2 ) of Clause 14 and 
sub - clause ( 2 ) of Clause 26 of the Iron and Steel ( Control ) Order , 1956 , I hereby 
direct that every Controlled Source , Producer , Stockholder or other person hold 
ing stocks of Iron and Steel or Iron and Steel Scrap shall issue a memorandum 
relating to every sale of Iron and Steel or Iron and Steel Scrap by such Con 
trolled Source, Producer, Stockholder or other person holding stocks of Iron and 
Steel or Iron and Steel Scrap , showing the following details of the materials 
supplied and the price charged therefor , and maintain a duplicate copy of the 
memorandum as atorcsaid : 

(a ) Name and address of the seller. 
( b ) Name and address of the buyer. 
(c ) Number and date of the Quota Certificate or Permit or Licence. 
( d ) Specifications of the goods sold . 
( e ) Weight of the goods sold . 
(1 ) Rate per ton of each item . 
( 8 ) Total price charged . 
( h ) Seller s signature , 
( 1) Sales Tax, loading and other incidental charges, octroi, etc. ( To be 
shown separately ) . 

C . R . NATEBAN , 
Iron and Steel Controller." 

[ No , SC ( A ) - 4 ( 253 ) / B . ] 


S . R . O . 1112 /ESS . COMM ./ IRON & STEEL - 2 ( c ) . -- In exercise of the powers con 
ferred by sub - clause ( c ) of Clause 2 of the Iron and Steel (Control) Order, 1956 and in supersession 
of all previous notifications on the subject, the Central Government hereby authorises the officers 
mentioned in Column 2 of the Schedule annexed hereto to exercise the powers of the Controller 
under the Clauses of the said Order mentioned in Column 3 thereof within their respective juris 
dictions , 


SCHEDULE 


Designation of Officers 


Clauses under which they are autho 

riscd 


Andhra 


. 


, 


. 


I. Director of Controlled Commo- 

ditics and Director of Agricul- 
ture and Fisheries , Andhra . 


4 , 5 , 10 , 11 , 12 ( 2 ), 18 , 20 , 22, 23 , 24 (6 ) , 

24( c ), 24 ( d ) and 28 ( for Iron & 
Steel and Scrap ) . 


Assam 


. 


. . 1. Director of Congumer Goods, 4 , 5, 10 , 11, 12 ( 2 ), 18 , 20 , 22 , 23 , 24 (6 ), 

Government of Assam , Shillong 24 ( c ) & 24 ( d ). 
2 . A11 Deputy Commissioners and 4 , 5 , 10 and 22 . 

Sub -Divisional Officers in 

Assam . 
Nicobar 1. Deputy Cumınissioner, Anda- 4 ,5, 18 ,20 ,23 ,24 (b), 24 (c) and 24(d ). 

inan and Nicobar Islands, Port 
Blair. 


Andaman & 

Islands 


Designation cf Officers 


Clauses under which they are 

authorised . 


Ajmer 


. 


. 


. 


Bombay . 


. 


. 


I. Additional Assistant Commis - 4 , 5 , 10 , 11 , 12 ( 2 ), 18 , 20 , 22, 23 , 

sloner and Officer Incharge, 24 ( b ), 24 (c ) and 24 ( d ). 

Food and Civil Supplies, Almer, 
I. Controller of Iron , Steel & C¢- 4 , 5 , 10 , 11, 12 ( 2 ), 18 , 20 , 22, 23 , 24 ( 6 ) 
ment, Government of Bombay, 24 ( c), 24 ( d ) and 28 (For Iron & 
Bombay 

Steel and Scrap ). . 
2 . Assistant Controller of Iron , 4 , 5 , 18 , 20 ,24 (b ), 24 (c ) and 24 ( d ) 

Steel & Cement, Government 

of Bombay , Bombay . 
3 . Agricultural Iron & Steel Supply 

Officer , Government of Bombay, 4 ,5,10 , II, ard 12 (2). 

Bombay . 
4. All Collectors and Mamlatdars 4 and 5. 

in the State of Bombay . 
5 . Director of Industries Govern - II, 12 ( 2 ) and 28 (For Iron and 
ment of Bombay , Bombay . Steel only) . 


Bihar 


, 


. 


I . Director of Industries, Govern - 4, 5, 10 , II, 12 ( 2 ), 18 , 20 ,22 , 23. 
mcnt of Bihar , Patna . 

24 (b ) , 24 (c ) and 24 ( d ). 
2. Director of Agriculture , Bihar 4 ,5 , 18 , 20 , 24 (b ), 24c) & 24 ( d ). 

Patna , 
3 . Joint Director of Agriculture , 18, 20, 24 (b ),24 (c ) & 24 ( d ). 

Bihar, Patna , 
4 . All Distt. Agricultural Officers 4 ,5 , 18 ,20, 24, b ), 24 (c ) and 24 (d ). 

& Grow More Food Officers 
appointed by the Government of 

Bihar, 
5 . Additional Distt. Magistrate 4 and 5 . 

of Dhanbad and the Distt. Magi 
strates of all other Districts of 

Bihar. 
6 . All Deputy Directors of Agri- 4,5, 18 ,20,24 (6 ), 24 (c) and 24 (d ). 

culture, Bihar, 
7 . Deputy Secretary to Govern . 4,5, 12 (2), 18, 20, 24(6 ),24 (c ) and 

Inçnt Supply & Price Control 24 ( d ) . 

Department , Bihar , 
I. Secretary and Commissioner 4 , 5, 11, 12 (2 ), 18, 20 ,24 (b ), 24 (c ) and 

Food and Civil Supplies , 24 (d ). 

Bhopal, 
2 . Secretary , Commerce & In - 4 , 5 and 12 (2 ). 

dustrice Department, Govern 
ment of Bhopal , Bhopal 
3 . Development Commissioner , 4 , 5 and 12 (2 ). 

Government of a Bhopal, Bhopal. 


Bhopal 


. 


, 


Bilaspur , 


. 


Delhi 


. 


. 


, I. Civil Supplies Officer, Bilag- 4,5 ,18 ,20,24 (b ), 24 (c) and 24 (d ). 1 

pur, Simla Hills , 
. 1. Assistant Director, .. . Civil 4 , 5, 18 , 20 , 24 (b ), 24 (c) ard 24( ). 

Supplies (General) Delhi, 
2 . The Director of Industries and 4 , 5, 10 , II, 12 ( 2 ), 18 , 20 , 24 (b ) . 
Labour, Delhi, 

24 ( c) & 24 ( d ). 
3 . Agricultural Officer, Delhi, 4 red s. 

State Delhi, 
4 . Superintendent of Industries, 4 , 5 , 18 , 20 , 24 (b ), 24 (c) 6 . d 24( 0 ) . 

Delhi. 


Hyderabad 


. 


, 


I. Iron and Steel Controller, 4 , 5 , 10 , II, 12 ( 2 ), 18 , 20 , 22 , 23 . 

Govt. of Hyderabad , Khairata - 24 (b ), 24 (e) & 24 (d ). 
bad . 


. 


GA 


. . 


A , MA . 12 , 1 


L 


. 


Designation of Oflicers 


Clauses under which they are 

e . thorised 


3 


Himachal Pradesh 


Kutch 


. 


. 


Madras 


. 


. 


. 1. Director of Civil Supplies , 4, 5 and 23. 

Himachal Prudesh , Simla . 
2 . District Agricultural Officers, 28( b ) & (c ) ( For Iron and Steel 

Government of Himachal Pra - only ). 

desh , Simla , 
. 1. Provincial Iron & Steel Licensing 4, 5, 12 (2), 18 , 20 , 23, 24 (6 ), 24 (c) 
Authority , Kutch , 

and 24 (d ). 
, I. Additional Director of Indus- 4 , 5 , IO , II , 12 ( 2 ), 18 , 20 , 22, 23 , 

tries & Commerce , Govt. of 24 (b ), 24 (c ), 24 ( d ) & 28 
Madras, Madras. 

(For Iron & Steel and Scrap ). 
2 . Director of Agriculture , Goyt, 4 , 5 , 10 , 11, 12 ( 2 ), 18 , 20 , 22 23 , 
of Madras , Madras . 

24( c), 24 (d ) & 24 ( d ) . 
3 . Special Officer ( Iron & Steel) 4 , 5 , 18 & zo . 

Office of the Director of In 
dustries & Commerce, Chepauk , 

Madras - 5 . 
4 . Deputy Director of Agriculture 4 and 5. 

( Engineering), Government of 

Madras, Madrag. 
, I . Steel Controller , Govt, of 4 , 5 , 10 , 11, 12 (2 ), 18, 20, 22, 23, 
Madhya Pradesh , Nagpur, 

24( b ) , 24 ( c) , 24 (a ) & 28 (For 

Iron and Steel and Scrap ) . 
2 . Chicf Executive Officers of 4 , 5 18 , 20 , 24 (b ), 24 ( c) and 
Janiapada Sabhas in Madhya 246, d ). 

Pradesh , 
3 . Deputy Commissioners in 4 , 5, 18 , 20 , 24 (b ), 24 (c) and 
Madhya Pradesh . 

24 ( d ) . 
4. District Development Officers , 4 and 5. 

Madhya Pradesh . 
5 . Assistant Project Officers , 4 and 5 . 

Madhya Pradesh . 
. 1. Iron and Steel Controller , 4, 5, 18 , 20, 24 (b ), 24 (c ) and 24 ( d). 

Government of Mysore, Bhad 
ravati. 


Madhya Pradesh 


Mysore . 


. 


Madhya Bharat 


. 


1. Director of Food and Civil 4 , 5 , 10 , 11, 12 ( 2 ), 18 , 20 , 22 , 23, 
Supplies , Govt. of Madhya 24 (b ) , 24 (c ), 24 ( d ) & 28 ( For 
Bharat . 

Iron and Steel Scrap ). 
2 . Deputy Director of Food and 4 , 5, 12 (2), 18, 20 , 24 (b ), 24( ) 

Civil Supplies , Govt . of Madhya and 24( d ) . 

Bharat. 
3 . Assistant Director of Food and 4, 5, 18 , 20 , 24 (6 ), 24 (e ) and 24 (d ). 

Civil Supplies , Govt. of Madhya 

Bharat. 
4 . Collectors, Dhar, Dewas, Mand - 4 and 5 . 

saur, Shujapur, Ratlam , Guna 
and Nimar (Khargone) Dist 
ricts of Madhya Bharat, 


Orissa 


. 


- 


. 


I. Controller of Supplies, Govt. 4 , 5 , 10 , II, 12 ( 2 ), 18 , 20 , 22 , 23 , 
of Orissa , Cuttack . 

24 (6 ), 24 ( c), 24 (d ) & 28 ( for 

iron and steel only ) . 
2. Director of Agriculture and 4 , 5, 18, 20, 24 (b ), 24(c) and 24 (d ). 

Food Production , Govt. of 

Orissa , Cuttack . 
3. Deputy Secretary (Iron and 4 , 5 , 18 , 20, 24 (6 ), 24 (c) and 24 (d ). 

Steel), Dept. of Supply and 
Transport, Govt. of Orissa , 

Cuttack , 
4 . Director of Industries, Govt . 4, 5, 18 , 20 , 24 (6 ), 24 (c) and 24( d). 

of Orissa , Cuttack , 


- 3 ] 


.. . . 


A , 


. 12, . 


i 


003 


Designation of Officers 


Clauses under which they are 

authorised 


Punjab 


. 


. 


. 


5 . All District Mſagistratures in the 4 , 5, 18, 20 , 24 (6 ), 24(c ) and 24 (d ). 

State of Orissa , 
6 . District Supplies Officers in 4 and 5 . 

the State of Orissa . 
7 . All Civil Supplies Officers in thc 4 , 5, 18 , 20 , 24 (b ), 24 (c) and 24 (d ). 

the State of Orissa , 
8 . All District Agriculral Officers 4 , 5, 18 , 20, 24 (b ), 24 (c) and 24 (2 ). 

in the State of Orissa . 
9 . Agricultural Engineer to the 4 , 5, 18 , 20, 24 (b ), 24 (c) and 24 (d ). 

Government of Orissa , 
Jo . All Sub -Divisional Officers 4 , 5 , 18, 20, 24 (6 ), 24 (c ) and 24 ( d ). 

and Taluq Officers in the State 

of Orissa . 
II. All Deputy and Sub -Deputy 4 and 5 . 
Magistrates in the State of 

Orissa , 
12 . Industrial Engineer to the 4 and s . 

Government of Orissa , Cuttack . 
1. Director of Industries and De- 4 , 5 , 10 , II, 12 ( 2 ), 18 , 20 , 22 , 23 

puty Secretaries to the Govt. of 24 (b ), 24 (c ), 24 ( d ) , and 28 (for 
Punjab , Civil Supplies Departm - iron & steel and scrap). 

ent, Simla . 
2 . Deputy Director , Controlled 4 , 5 , 10 , II , 12 ( 2 ), 18 , 20 , 22, 23 

Commoditics, Govt. of Punjab, 24 (6 ), 24 ( c), 24( d ) and 28 
Simla . 

( for Iron & steel & scrap ) . 
3 . Agricultural Engineers ( Im - 4 and s . 

plements ), Govt . of Punjab . 

Karnal. 
4 . Deputy Director of Industries 4 , 5, 10 , II, and 12 (2 ), 

(Rchabilitation ), Government 

of Punjab , Simla . 
5 . Deputy Iron and Fuel Control 4 and s . 

Officer, Punjab , Simla . 
6 . Estate Oficer Capital 4 and 5. 

Project, Chandigarh . 
7 . District Industries Officers , 4 , 5 , 10 , 11, 12 ( 2 ), 18 , 20 , 23, 24 (6 ) 
Government of Punjab 

24 ( c ), 24 ( d ), and 28 ( for iron and 

steel and scrap ). 
1. Director of Industries, Govt. of 4 , 5, 10 , II, 12 ( ), 18 , 20, 24( ), 
PEPSU , Patiala . 

24 ( c ) , 24 ( d ), and 28 (for iron and 

steel and scrap ) . 
2 . Director of Agriculture , Govt. 4, 5, 18, 20, 24 (b ), 24 (c) and 24 ( d). 

of PEPSU , Patiala . 
3 . Deputy Director of Industries 4 and 5 . 

Government of PEPSU , Patiala . 
4 . Assistant Director of Industries 4 and 5 . 

Government of PEPSU , Patiala . 
3 . Inspector of Industries ( In - 4 and 5. 

charge Conrtol), Government 

of PBPSU , Patiala . 
6 . Inspector of Industries, Govt. 4 and 5 . 

of PEPSU , Kapurthala . 
7 . Inspector of Industries, Govt. 4 and 5 . 

of PEPSU , Faridkot, 
8 . Inspector of Industries , Govt. 4 and s. 

of PEPSU , Malerkotla . 
9 . Inspector of Industries, Govt. 4 and 5 . 

of PEPSU , Şangrur. 
10 . Inspector of Industries, Govt. 4 and 5 . 

of PEPSU , Narngul. 
II. Inspector of Industrics, Govt. 4 and 5. 

of PEPSU , Patiala . 


PEPSU 


GA 


1 , . 


. 12, . . 


. 


L . 


TI , 


- 


Designation of Officers . 


Clauses under which they aro 

authorised 


3 


North East Frontier 

Agency , Aggam . 


1 . Political Officers . 


, 


. 


10 and 22 . 


Rajasthan 


. 


I. Director of Industries & Com - 4 , 5, 18 , 20 , 24 ,(b ), 24 (c ), & 24 (d ). 

merce ,Govt. of Rajasthan , Jaipur. 
2. Deputy Director of Industries 4 , 5 , 18, 20 , 24 (6 ), 24 (c ), & 246d ). 

& Commerce , Govt. of Rajas 

than , Jaipur. 
3 . Assistant Director of Industries, 4, 5, 18 , 20 , 24 (b), 24 (c), & 24 (d). 

& Commerce , Govt . of Rajas 

than , Jalpur . 
4 . Assistant Director of Industries 4 , 5, 18 , 20 , 24 (d ), 24 ( c), & 24 (d ). 

& Commerce , Govt of Rajas 

than , Bikaner. 
5. Asistant Director of Industrics 4 , 5, 18 , 20 , 24 (b ), 24 (c), & 246d ). 

& Commerce , Govt of Rajas 

than , Jodhpur . 
6 . Assistant Director of Industries 4 . S, 18 , 20 , 24 (b ), 24 (e) & 24 (d ). 

& Commerce , Govt of Rajas 

than , Bharatpur. 
7 . Assistant Director of Industries , 4 , 5, 18 , 20, 24 (6 ), 24 (c), & 24 (d ). 

& Commerce , Govt of Rajas 

than , Udaipur. 
8 . Director of Agriculture , Govt. 4 , 5 , 18 , 20 , 24(6 ), 24 (c) & 24 (d ). 

of Rajasthan , Jaipur. 
9 . All Collectors of the Districts 4 , 5, 18 , 20 , 24 (b ), 24 (c), & 246d ). 

in Rajastan . 


Saurashtra 


. 


. 


Travancore -Cochin 


1. Director of Industry and Sup - 4 , 5 , 18 , 20 , 24 (b ), 24 (c), & 24 (d ). 

ply , Govt . of Saurashtra , Rajkot. 
I. Director of Agriculture, Govt. 4, 5 , 18 , 20 , 24 (b ), 24(c) & 24 (d ). 

of Travancore - Cochin , Trivan 

drum . 
2. Director of Industries & Com - 4 , 5 , 18 , 20 , 24 (b ), 24 (c ) & 24 ( d ) . 

merce , Govt of Travancore 
Cochin , Trivandrum . 


Uttar Pradesh . 


. 


1. Provincial Iron & Steel Control - 4 , 5 , IO , II , 12 (2 ), 18 , 20 , 22 , 23 , 
ler, Uttar Pradesh , Kanpur. 

24 (b ), 24 (c ), 24 ( d ) and 28 (for 

Iron & Steel and scrap ). 
2 . Assistant Provincial Iron & Steel 4, 5, 18 , 20 , 24 (b ), 24 (c) & 246d ). 

Controller , Uttar , Pradesh Kan 

pur , 
3 . Deputy Provincial Iron and 4 , 5, 18 , 20 , 24 (b ), 24 ,(c ) & 24(d ). 

Steel Controller Uttar Pra 

desh , Kanpur. 
4 . All District Magistrates in 4 , 5 , 18 , 20 , 24 ,(b ),24 ( c), & 24 (d ). 

Uttar Pradesh . 


Vindhya Pradesh 


, 


I. Director, Food and Civil Sup 

plies, Vindhya Pradesh , Rcwa, 4 , 5 , 18 , 20 , 24 (6 ), 24 ( c) & 24 (d ). 
2 , Collectors of Vindhya Pradesh 4 , 5 , 18 and 20 . 


, 


12. 


Designation of Officers . 


Clauses under which they are 

authorised . 


I 


West Bengal 


, 


4 , 5 , 10 , II, 12 (2 ), 18 , 20 , 22 , 
23 , 24 (6 ), 24 ( c) and 24 (d ) . 


12 (2 ), 18, 20 , 24 (b ), 24 

& 24 (0 ) 


(c) 


4 , 5, 18, 20 , 24 ((b), 24 (c) and 

24 
4 and 5. 
4 and 5. 


4 and 5. 


Others 


Director of Consumer Goods , 
West Bengal, Calcutta 
2 . Dy. Director of Consumer 
Goods , West Bengal, Calcutta 
3 . All Assistant Directors of 
Consumer Goods and all Sub 
Divisional Officers and Officers 
authorised to work as such dur 
ing the temporary absence of 
Sub -Divisional Officers, of the 
Govt, of West Bengal 
4 . Secretary , Industrial Reha 
bilitation Board , Calcutta , 
5 . Agricultural Engineer, Govt. 

of West Bengal, Calcutta . 
6 . Sub - Divløional Agricultural 

Officers, appointed by the Govt. 
of West Bengal 
7. Sub - Divisional Controllers 
of Food and Supplies appointed 
by the Govt. of West Bengali 
I. Controller of Stores, Eastern 

Rly ., Calcutta , 
2 , Controller of Stores, North 

Eastern Rly . Gorakhpur 
3 . Controller of Stores, Northern 

Railway , Delhi . 
4 . Controller of Stores, Central 

Railway , Bombay 
5. Controller of Storea , Western 

Railway, Bombay 
6 . Controller of Stores , Southern 

Railway, Madras . . 
7 . Controller of Storcs , South 

Eastern Railway, Calcutta , 
8 . Dy. Controller of Stores, In 

dian Railways, Locomotive 
Manufacturing Works , Calcutta 
9 . Railway Lagon Officer, Mini 

stry of Railways, New Delhi 
10 . The Deputy Controller of 

Stores , Integral Coach Factory , 

Perambur , Madras 
II . Chairman , Tea Board , Calcutta 
12 . Secretary , Tea Board, 

Calcutta 
13 . Supply Officer, Tea Board , 

Calcutta 
14. Secretary, Indian Central Cot 

ton Committee, Bombay 
15 Deputy Assistant Coal Com . 

missioner (Stores ), Calcutta . 
16 . Textile Commissioner, Bombay , 
17, Director (Production & De 
velopment) , Office of the Tex 

tile Commissioner, Bombay 
18 . Assistant Director in the Pro 

duction and Development 
Branch , Office of the Textilo 
Commissioner, Bombay , 


4 , 5 , 18 and 20 . 
4 and s. 
4 and 5. 
4 and 5 
4 and s. 
4 and s. 
4 and s. 
4 and s. 


4 and s. 
4 and s . 


4 and 5 . 


4 and 5 
4 add 5. 


4 and 5 . 


4 and 5. 


4 and s. 


4 and 5 . 


GA 


. . 


A , MA . 12 , . . 


ART. II — Sec. 3 


Designation of Officers 


Clauses under which they are 

authorised 


Im 


4 and 5. 


4 and 5. 


4 and s. 


4 and 5. 


19 . Director , Central Water and 

Power Commission , Simla . 
20 . Assistant Director , Central 

Water and Power Commission , 

Simla 
21, Development Officer (Chemi 

cals - I), Development Wing , 
Ministry of Commerce and 

Industry 
22. Development Officer ( Timber ) 

(Chemicals II), Development 
Wing , Ministry of Commerce 

and Industry 
23. Development Officer (Chemi 

cals - III), Development Wing, 
Ministry of Commerce and 

Industry 
24. Assistant Development Off 

cer (Steel), Development Wing , 
Ministry of Commerce and 

Industry 
25. Director (Sugar), Ministry of 

Food and Agriculture, New Delhi 
26 . Deputy Director of Supplies 

(Steel and Railway Call), Direc 
torate General of Supplics and 
Disposale, New Delhi , . 


4 and s. 


4 and s. 
4 and s . 


4 and 5. 


ಶಿಕ್ಷ 


All clauses of the control order . 


4 and s. 


19 and 22 . 


atta 


10 and 22 . 


27. Deputy Iron and Steel Con 

troller, Iron and Steel Control, 

Calcutta : 
28. All Assløtant Iron and Steel 

Controllers, Office of the Iron 

and Steel Controller , Calcutta . 
29. Assistant Iron and Steel Con 

trollers (Grade I), Steel Import 
Division, Iron and Steel Con 

trol, Calcutta . .. 
30 . Deputy Assistant Iron and 

Steel Controllers in the Steel 
Import Division of the Iron and 

Steel Control, Calcutta 
31. Deputy Assistant Iron and 

Steel Controller in - charge of 
Quota Section of the Iron and 

Steel Control, Calcutta , . 
32. Price and Accounts Officer in 

the Price add Accounts Division 
of the Iron and Steel Control, 

Calcutta 
33. Deputy Price and Accounts 

Officer, in the Price and AC 
counts Division of the Iron and 

Steel Control, Calcutta , . 
34. Deputy Assistant Iron and 
Steel Controller in the Price 
and Accounts Division of the 
Iron and Steel Control, Cal 

cutta , 
35 . Deputy Development Officer 

(Drugs) — Chemicals II, Deve 
lopment Wing , Ministry of Com 
merce and Industry . . . 


4 and s. 


4 and 5 . 


[ No. SC . (A ) -4 (453 ) C . ] 


PÅR 


Bc . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1966 


667 


SR. O . It13 . - 389, COMM /IRON & STEEL - 13 ( I) and 71(3). The following Notification 
issued by the Iron and Steel Controller under S ib - Ciluse ( 1 ) of Clause 15 and Sub - Clause ( 1 ) of 
Clause 27 of the Iron aniSteel (Control) Order , 1955, is hereby published for general information : 

NOTIFICATION 
In exercise of the pywers conferredby Sub - Ciause (1 ) of Clause 15 and Sub -Clause ( I) ( I ) Clause 
27 of the Iron & Steel (Control Order, 1956 andwith the approval of the CentralGovt . the Iron 
ani Srcel Controller is pleased to notify the following Schedule ofmiximum pricos of iron & 
steel and iron & steel scrap , in supergession of all previous notifications on the subject : 

SCHEDULB I 
TINPLATES 


Size 


Sheetage 


Weight 
( in Lbs.) 


B ham 
Gauge 


Rate per 
box f.or. 

Works 
Siding Tata 

nagar 
(in Rs.) 


4 


Rs . as. p . 


COKE UNASSORTED TINPLATE 


171 


07 6 


28 x 20 
28 x 20 
34 X 25 
34 x 25 


185 


75 


63 II 0 


28 x 20 


20 


25 X 17 


x 20 


110 
156 


34 x 25 
28 x 20 
28 X 20 
28 x 20 
18 . 3 /4 X 14 
20 XIO , 
20 X 14 . 
28 X 20 . 
28 . 1 / 2 X 24 . 1 / 2 
33 x 20 
28 x 20 
20 X 14 
28 X 20 
28 x 20 
28 x 20 
20 X 14 


I24 
225 
112 
II2 
112 


69 IO O 
62 3 
SI 100 
73 30 
50 100 
IOI 30 
126 0 0 
60 20 


108 


216 
269 


56 


127 


112 
II2 
IIZ 
112 
II2 
IIZ 


200 
100 
180 
160 


30 . 6 
30 .6 
31 6 


32 . 5 


140 


34 


84 


70 


34 


ODD SIZES COKE UNASSORTED TINPLATE 


232 


217 


20 
21 . 3 


IOO 


NNHHON 


250 
152 


NOWN 


SO 


Romans 


u 


217 


34 X 25 . 
33 X 14 . 
20 X 14 
25 X 17 
26 1 /2 X 13 1 /4 
28 X 20 . 
20 X 14 
35 X 25 
29 . 1 / 2 X 21 . 
20 X 14 
20 X 14 
25 X 17 
22 : 3 / 4 X 16 
13 1 /2 X 10 3 /4 


200 
150 
212 
196 


100 
25 
50 
II2 
II ? 
I2 
112 
II2 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


168 


88 8 
84 I 
73 3 
III 


255 


003 OAM 


ساتروعه 


97 


35 


Rs. as. p . 


OY 


II2 
II2 
II2 


102 


112 


154 
171 
197 
1935 


56 


556 


II2 


170 


140 


124 
157 


136 
140 


140 


136 


113 


III 
162 


197 


175 


II 
64 

52 
282 
124 
225 
112 
II2 
II2 
II2 
II2 
112 
II2 
II2 
I12 
II2 
II2 
I12 
IIZ 
IIZ 
II2 
II2 


213 
199 
244 
234 


235 


93 7 
114 5 
109 II 
IIO I 

88 
112 1 
I12 


240 
240 


108 


128 
109 II 
103 I 


222 


128 12 


156 


160 


14 XII . 
16 . 3 /8X / 1 . 1/ 2 
20 X 14 
28XIII/ 4 
31. 1 / 2 X 23 . 
31 X 23 . 
22 X 14 . 
18 . 3 /4 X 14 . 
20 X IO . 
20 X 14 . 
26 . 3 /4 X 18 . 3 /4 . 
30 X 20 
13 X 9 
18 . 5 / 8 X 14 . 1 /4 . 
20 . 1 /4X 10 . 1 /4 . 
24 . X 2 . 11 / 4 , 
24 . 1/ 2 X 18 . 3 / 4 . 
26 1 / 2 X 21. 
28 x 18 . 3 / 4 . 
28 X 22 . 3 / 16 
28 . 1 /2 X 21. 1 /4 
28 . 1 / 2 X 21 3 /8 . 
28 . 3 /4 X 17 . 1 /4 
29 X 21 . 1 / 2 . 
29 . 1 /4X21 1 /4 . 
30 X 20 
30 - 13 / 16x21 3/ 16 
31 X 19 . 1 / 2 . 
31 X 18 . 1 /2 . 
31 X 23 . 
31 . 1 /4 X 8 13 / 16 
33 . 1 / 2 X 25 . . 
14X7 , . 
18 - 3 / 4 X 12 . . 
26 . 3 / 4 X 16 . 1 / 2 . 
26 . 3 /4 X 18 . 3 /4 . 
28 . 1/ 4 X 14 . 1/ 8 . 
30 X 21 
31 . 3 / 14 X 21 . 1 / 4 
32 - 3 / 8 X 22 . 
28 X 24 - 1 / 2 . 
12 . 1 / 2 X9 . 
18 - 3 /4 X 14 . . 
25 . 7 / 16 X 22 . 1/ 8 
25 . 7 / 16 X 24 . 5 / 16 
27 X 14 3 / 4 . . 
27 . 3 /4X23 . 7 / 16 
27 . 5 / 8 x 24 . 1 / 2 , 
28 x 27 - 1 / 16 . 
28 - 1/ 2 X 21 . 1 / 2 . 
28 . 7 /8 X 24 . . 
28 . 7 /8 x 24 . 1 /2 . 
29 X 21 . 1 / 2 . 
29 . 1 / 4 X 24 11 / 16 
29 . 5/ 8 X 17 . 3 /4 
30 X 18 . 3 / 4 . . 
30 : 1 / 2 X 24 * 1/ 2 . 
32 . 1 / 2 X 21 . 
30 x 20 . 
31 X 19 . 1 / 2 . 
31 X 21 
31 X 22 
28 x 21 , 
28 3 /8 X - 21- 1 /4 
30 x 21 . 5 /8 


unde 


IIO 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO0000000000000000000000000 

ONETOMOHM 


ΙΙο 


TI 
II3 


169 
193 
152 
242 
130 
275 
262 
IIO 
153 
201 
220 
142 
232 
242 


30 . 6 


332 
144 
112 
II2 
IIZ 
II2 

56 
II2 
II2 
282 
172 
II2 
II2 
II2 
II2 
II2 
112 
IIZ 
112 
112 
II2 
II2 
112 
II2 
II2 
II2 
II2 
II2 
II2 
112 
112 
II2 
II2 


30 -6 


30 . 6 
30 . 6 
30 . 6 
30 . 6 
30 . 6 


129 
122 
SI 9 
71 14 
98 II 
108 1 

69 II 
114 I 
118 13 
132 15 
107 3 
Ι2Ι ΙΙ 
12I II 
109 TO 
126 13 


2010 


219 


248 
248 


30 . 6 
30 . 6 


223 


30 . 6 


258 


30 . 6 
30 . 6 


30 . 6 


98 


30 . 6 
30 - 6 


188 
201 
267 
244 
214 
216 
232 
2.43 
202 
207 
219 


131 4 
120 
105 3 
I06 


30 . 6 
30 . 6 
30 . 6 


IIJ 


لا 
يا 
لي 


30 . 6 


II9 
IOI 
104 2 
IIO 1 


PART II - SEC, 8 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1958 


669 


Rs. as. p . 


93 
90 


31 . 6 


IS8 


31 . 6 


169 


194 


31. 6 
31. 6 


31 . 6 


3 


Va 


171 


بیابهدنیابیابیابیابیبیکانیاباباباناناناناناناناانا 


240 


123 


18 - 3 /4 X 14 
20 X 14 . 
25 X 17 - 7 /8 
25 7 /8 X 18 - 7 / 8 
27 X 21- 5 /8 
27- 1/ 4 X 19 - 1 /4 . 
27- 5 / 16 x 22 - 1 / 8 . 
28 X 18 : 3 / 4 . 
28 X 24 . 5 / 16 
28 - 1 / 2 X 18 - 1 / 2 
28- 1 /2 X 20 - 5 /8 
28- 3 /4 X 18 - 1 /2 . 
28 - 7 / 8 x 25 - 3 / 4 
29 X 22 . 1 / 2 . 
29 - 1/ 4 X 24 . 11/ 16 
29 - 1 /2 X 20 - 1/ 4 . 
30 X 21 . . 
30- 1 / 4 X 25 - 1/ 4 . 
30 - 3 / 4 X 23- 7 / 16 . 
31X21 . 
21 22 
31 X 23 
30 7 . 20 
28 - 3 /8 X 17 - 3 /8 
27- 5 / 16 X 18 - 5 / 8 . 
20 X 14 
27 - 5 / 16 28 - 5 /8 . 
28 - 3 / 4 X 20 - 3 / 4 . 
29 X 16 - 3 /8 
29 x 18 - 5 / 8 
29 X 23 - 5 /8 
29- 7 / 8 X 24 - 7 / 8 
22- 1/ 4 X 18 - 1 / 2 
25 - I /4X, 22 
25 - 1/ 2 X 18 - 1 / 2 
25 - 1 /2 X 21 
27 - 3 / 4 X 18 - 1 / 2 
28 - 3 /8 X 21- 3 / 16 


. 6 


124 
II2 
II2 

144 
II2 

IS7 
II2 
II2 
II 
124 
II2 
II2 

167 
II2 
112 
II2 
112 

210 
112 
II2 

192 
II2 

203 
112 

246 
II2 

232 
II2 

209 
II2 

219 
112 

228 
I12 
112 
112 
II2 

80 
II2 
II2 

170 
IIZ 

139 
II2 
112 
IIZ 

212 
II2 
112 

139 
II2 
II2 

134 
IIZ 

128 
II2 
BEST COKE TINPLATE 

250 
176 


108 2 
119 8 

98 12 
104 
126 13 
119 
107 8 
II2 I 
117 


5686 ดีมี๒๔งเนี่มีคงไงคงมี๒ซึ่งมี๕ผมผมมี่ 000000000000000000000000OOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


31 . 6 


31. 6 


GO 


31 . 6 


32 : 5 


184 


32 . 5 
3205 
32 $ 
325 


154 


196 


32 . 5 


IO3 


118 


76 12 


.. 


150 


89 15 


22 


22 


... 


50 


200 


NNN 


28 x 20 
33 X 22 
28 x 20 
22 X 14 
31 X 23 , 
28 X 20 . 
18 . 3 / 4 X 14 . 
20XIO , 
28 X 20 . 
26 - 7 / 16 X 22 - 1 /8 . 
27 : 3 / 4 X 23 - 7 / 16 . 
28 X 21 . 
30 X 27 - 15 / 16 
28 - 1/ 2 X 21- 3 /4 
28 - 3 / 8 X 23 - 5 / 16 . 
28 x 20 
28 X 20 


30 . 6 


ocyStuotostarouvant 00000000000000000 


کیابیابیابیابیابیابیابیابیاتابه 


122 
109 


IIZ 

170 
193 5 

140 
172 

TS3 
225 

156 
II2 

216 
I12 

201 
II2 

232 
J12 

202 
112 

269 
I12 

199 
II2 

213 
II2 

ΙΟο 
112 

140 
No, I TINPLATE 

196 
184 
201 
150 

200 
112 

216 


31 . 6 


150 


3116 
31. 6 


118 


32 - 5 


94 


91 8 


28 X 20 
28 - 5 /8 X 18 - 3 / 4 
28 - 1 / 4 X 20 - 3 / 4 
28 x 20 
28 x 20 
28 X 20 


. 


دمدمباہرینلیا لماالامالا 


IOI 30 
95 4 0 
104 2 0 
ΙΙΙ Ι Ο 

97 2 0 
131 90 


. 


. 


. 


. 


670 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1958 


[ PART II — Sec. 3 


2 


3 


Rs. as. p . 


CHARCOAL No . II TINFLATE 

197 

136 
125 

III 
112 

201 
II2 

232 
II2 

220 


102 4 
70 13 
62 9 


31- 1 /2 X 23 . 
30 Y 20 
18- 5 / 8 X 14 - 1/ 4 . 
25 - 7 / 16 X 22 - 1 /8 , 
27 - 3 /4 X 23 - 7 / 16 . 
25 - 7 / 16 X 24 - 5 / 16 . 
30 - 1 /4 X 28 - 3 /8 , 
28 - 7 /8 X 25- 3 /4 , 
29 X 22- 1 / 2 . 
30 X 20 . . 


30 . 6 


30 - 6 


ння 


OOD 


130 


6 


0000000000 


30 . 6 


153 


240 


II2 
II2 
II2 


30 . 6 
31 . 6 
31 . 6 
31. 6 


92 50 
150 8 0 
131 II 0 
121 20 


210 
193 


. 


CONDITIONS FOR SALE 

PART I - GENERAL 
The prices shown in the abovc Schedule and the other provisions relevant thereto as set forth 
below , shall come into force with effect from the date on which they are published in the Gazette 
of India and notwitlistanding the rates at which an order has been tccked and / or materials paid for , 
shall apply to all deliveries effected cnor eftei that date. In all cases where delivery is effected by 
rail, the dute of the Railway receipt shall be deemed to be the date of delivery . 
PART II- SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR SALE BY THE TINPLATE CO . OF INDIA LTD . CALCUTTA 

A . To Customers other than Controlled Stockholders, 
(a ) In respect of sales by Messrs . Tinplate Co. of India Lid ., Calcutta , to customer other than 
the Controlled Stockholders, the rate notified in the Schedule of Prices shull apply fo. r. Siding 
Tatanagar . 

(6 ) Octroi and Sales or other taxes incurred in the process of delivery of matcrials from Seller s 
yard or siding to Customers will be borne by the latter, 


B . To Controlled Stockholders 
(a ) The prices notified in this Schedule shall apply f.o.s., Works Siding, Tatanagår. In 
order to arrive at the prices for materials ordered for delivery at Controlled Stockholders Siding or 
Yard situated at Ambala Cantt., Bombay , Calcutta , Delhi, Kanpur and Madras place exta at the 
following rates shall be added to these prices : 


Place extra 

per ton 
Tinplates . 


Rs. as . p . 


Ambala Cantt. 
Bombay 
Calcutta 
Delhi 
Kanpur 
Madras 


86 14 o 
95 0 0 
21 00 
79 7 0 


89 


4 


(6 ) Octroi and Sales or other taxes incurred during the transit of the materials into the Stock 
yard shall be borne by the Controlled Stockholders in the first instapce. 


PART III - SALES BY CONTROLLED STOCKHOLDERS 


(a ) Sales by Controlled Stockholders shall be effected at the rates calculated as notified in Part 
IIB abovc plus Stockists remuneration of Rs. 40 /- per ton . These prices are f.o . r. Stockholder s 
Siding or ex - yard against cash paymçnt and are exclusive of delivery charges. 

(6 ) The question of credit facilities is a matter for negotiation between the customer and the 
Stockholder . 


PART II SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


671 


= 


33 


(0 ) Delivery charges are not admissible iſ delivery is fade ex -yard or f.o .r. Siding or into 
Workshop adjoining Sotckists Stock yard . Wheic delivery is undertaken by Controlled Stock 
holders at the request of the buyer, delivery charges shall not , cxcept by special arrangement bc 
tween the stockholder and buyer cxceed the following rates - 


Bombay 
Calcutta 
Delhi 
Капри 
Madras 
Ambala Cantt. 


Ratc per ton 

Rs. ag. p . 
Ιο ο ο 
1Ο Ο ο 

5 12 0 


99mooon 


000000 


. 


(d ) Octroi and Sales or other taxes levied on Steel entering the Controlled Stock holders 
Yard by the Government or Local Authority of the Province of Town where the Stockyard is 
Bltuated and similar taxes incurred in the process of delivery of materials from Seller a yard or 
siding to the customer shall be bomcby the latter . 


PART IV - SALES BY PERSONS OTHER THAN THE TINPLATE CO . OF INDIA LTD . AND CONTROLIID 

STOCKHOLDERS 
The rates and other charges fixed for sales by Controlled Stockholders in Part III above shali 
be applicable to sales by persons other than the Tinplate Co. of India and Controlled Stockholders 
unless otherwise directed by the Iron and Steel Contioller . 


SCHEDULE II 
WIRE AND WIRE PRODUCTS 


( Prices in rupees per ton ) 


Maximum base prices per ton F . O . R , Calcutta , 

Bombay , Madras , Tatanagar and Burnpoie . 


Matcrials 


Item 
No. 


Col. I 
For sales by 

Registered 
Producers 


Col. II 
For sales by 
Controlled 
Stockholders 


Col. III 
For sales by 
all persons other 
than Registered 
Producers and 

Controlled 
Stockholders 


Un - 
tested 


Tested 


Un - 
tested 


Tested 


Un - 


Tested 


tested 


738 


678 
719 
792 


725 - 
729 
836 


713 
754 


760 
764 


779 


785 
789 
896 


827 


852 


I. Hard Bright Wire 2 to 3 S .W .G . . 
2. Annealed Wire 2 to 3 S. W .G . , 
3. Galvanised Wire 2 to 3 S .W .G . 
4 . Telegraph Wire 2 to 3 S. W .G . . 
. Barbed Wire 12G Strand with 146 

Barb . . . . . 
6 . Wire Nails 2 to 3 S. W .G . . 
7 . Spring Steel Wire ( 45 % to - 55 % 

Carbon Content) . . . 
8 . Signal Wire Galvanised 48 to 54 

tons T . S. . . . . 


918 


953 


1,003 
941 


.. 


1, 745 


846 
.. 1. 815 
. . 2, 101 


. . 


2, 265 


. 


2,037 


.. 


2,551 


672 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


[ PART II - SEC . ! 


SCHEDULE OF EXTRAS 
( Extra in Rupees per ton ) 

GAUGES 


4 -65 


-9 


10 - 12 13 -14 


15 


16 


17 - 18 19 -20 21-22 


45 47 . 5 
45 47 . 5 


H . B . Wire 2 to 3 S . W . G , . 
Anncalcd Wire 2 to 3 $ . W . G . 
Galvd . Wire 2 to 3 S . W . G . 

Telegraph Wire 2 to 3 S . W . G , 
Wire Nails 2 to 3 S . W .G . 


ainuun 


65 


::iuuente 


. 


105 


Rs. 
140 


Spring Steel Wire 


. 


. 


. 


( 1) . 55 % 0 . 65 % Carbon Content . 
( 2 ) 65 % to - 75 % Carbon Content 
( 3 ) 80 % and upwards Carbon Content 
( ) for Bright Copper Coating 


280 
840 
280 


Signal Wire , 


. 


( 1) 60 to 70 tons Tensile Strength 
( 2 ) 70 to 80 tons Tensilc Strength 
( 3 ) 80 to go tons Tensilc Strength 


ANOO 


CONDITIONS FOR SALE 

PART I - -GENIRAL 


The prices shown in the above Schedule and the other provisions relevant thereto as set forth 
below , shall come into force with effect from the date on which they are published in the Gazette 
of India and notwithstanding the rates at which an order has been booked and or materials paid for , 
shell apply to all deliveries effected on or after that date, In all cases where delivery is offected by 
rail, the date of the Railway Receipt shall be deemed to be the date of delivery , 

2 . Prices for Tested materials apply only where a copy of Test Certificate recognised by the 
Government of India is supplied with the materials. 

3 . Tested materials must be within the tolerance specificd ; untested materials must be within 
the usual commercial tolerance, 

4 . Prices for wire include coiling ; prices for nails include packing in boxes or Gunny bags. 
PART II — SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR SALES BY THE INDIAN STEEL AND WIRE PRODUCTS LID ., 

INDRANAGAR 
A . To customers other than Controlled Stockholders. 

( 1) Salep la wagon loads by the Indian Stçel and Wire Products Ltd ., shall be effected at f. .r 
destination rate. 

( 2 ) In order to arrive at the chargcable rate for full wagon load for destinations other than 
Bombay , Clacutta , Madras, Tatanagar and Burnpore the Place Extras as given in the Freight 
(Place Extras ) List at Appendix I, shall be added to the Port Base prices . For any place not in 
cluded in that llst, the Place Extra will be determined with reference to the actual Railway freight 
from the nearest of the above 5 Ports except that for places which are not within 250 miles of the 
Ports of Tatanagar or Burnpore, the Place Extras will be determined with reference to the three 
ports of Calcutta , Bombay and Madras. In any dispute regarding the place extra , the decision of 
the Iron and Steel Controller shall be final. 

( 3) Where wagons are not fully loaded , the customer shall pay the difference between the actual 
freight per ton and the amount of freight per ton which would have been incurred if the wagon 
had been fully loaded . 

(4 ) For deliveries by Rail in smalls by the Indian Steel and Wire Products Ltd ., sales shall be 
made at f.o . , Tatanagar basis without any Place Extra , actual Railway freight from Tatanager to 
destination shall be payable by the purchaser . 

(5 ) If the materials , sold f.o.r. destination are at the customer s request despatched by any 
toute other than the chcapest, the difference in frcight shall be borne by the customer. 


P . 


11 — 


. 3 ] 


. 


G . 


A , MA . 12, 


673 


(6 ) Octroi, Sales of other taxes incurred during the process of delivery of materials from the 
Indian Steel & Wire Products Ltd . s Works or siding to customers shall be borne by the latter, 


B . To Controlled Stockholders. 
( 1 ) All sales to Controlled Stockholders will be made on f.o . r. destination basis by adding 

appropriate Place Extras wherever necessary to Port prices ( as mentioned in clause 
No. (2 ) Part II A ahove) and will apply to deliveries at the Controlled Stockholders 

Siding , if any or to their nearest railway station . 
( 2 ) Octroi and Sales and other taxes incurred during thc transit of the materials into the stock - 

yard shall be paid by the Controlled Stockholders . 


PART III - SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR SALES BY CONTROLLED STOCKHOLDERS 
( 1 ) Sales by controlled Stockholders shall be effected at the rates shown in Col. II of the 

Schedule of Prices plus the place cxtra as given in the Freight (Place Extras ) List at Appen 

dix I for the place at which the Stockyard is located. 
(2 ) The question of credit facilities is a matter for negotiation between the customer and the 

stockholders.. 
(3 ) Delivery charges are not admissible if delivery is made ex yard or f.o .r , siding or into work 

shops adjoining Stockholders Yard . Where delivery is undertaken by Controlled Stock 
holders at the request of the buyer, delivery charges except by special arrangement between 
the Sotckholders and Buyer , should not exceed the following rates . 


Rate per ton 

Rate per ton 
Rø. A . P . 

Rs. A . P . 
Ambala 

5 0 0 Kanpur 

. 

8 OO 
Bombay JOOO Madras 

6 8 0 
Clacutta IO O O Nagpur 

5 00 
Delhi (Old & New ) 5 12 0 Cuttack 

7 00 
(4 ) Octroi and Sales or other taxçs levicd on steel entering the Controlled Stockholders Yard 

by the Government or Local Authority of the Province or Town where the stockyard 
is situated and similar taxça incurred in the process of delivery ofmaterials from Seller s 
Yard or Şiding to the Customer shall be borne by the latter. 


PART IV .-- SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR SALES BY ALL PERSONS OTHER THAN THE INDIAN STEEL AND 

WIRE PRODUCTS LTD ., AND CONTROLLED STOCKHOLDERS . 


Persons other than the Indian Steel and Wire Products and Controlled Stockholders are 
entitled to charge themaximum prices given in Column III of the Schedule of prices which shall 
apply ex site, plus the actual freight paid by them inclusive of any freight or place extra charged by 
thc Supplier from whom they may have received the materials . Octroi, Sales and other taxes 
levied on steel entering the Seller s Yard by the Government or the Local Authority of the Pro 
vince or Town where the stockyard is situated and similar taxes incurred in the process of delivery 
of materials from Seller s Yard or Siding to Customer shall be borne by the latter . 


674 


SCHEDULE III 

PIG IRON 
Standard Grades. 
(High Manganese) 


Analysis 


Maximum Base selling Prices 
per ton at Calcutta , Bombay , 
Madras, Tatanagar & Burnpore 


Serial 
No. 


Grade 


Col. I 


Col. II 


Silicon 
per cent, 


Manganese 
per cent, 


Phosphorus 
per cent. 


Sulpbur 
per cent. 


. 


1 . 00 - 1 . 50 


Under 0 - 40 


tin 


Rs. 178 


1. Standard Foundry 

Do . 


2. 


Under 0 .030 


. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 


2 . 75 - 3 . 25 
2 . 25 — 2 . 75 
1 - 75 — 2 - 25 


. 
. 


Do. 


. 
. 


3 . 


Do. 


. 


. 


. 4 . 


Rs. 163 
Rs. 159 
Rs. 155 
Rs. 153 
Rs. 151 
Rs. 149 
Rs. 147 


Rs. 174 
Rs. 170 
Rs. 168 
Rs. 166 
Rs. 164 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,MAY12,1966 


5. Special - . 
6 . Special Basic . 
7 . Standard Basic . 


Rs. 162 


. 
. 


8. Low Manganese 
4. Do. . . . 
10 . Do . . . . . 

Do. . . . . 
12. Special . . . . 
13 . Low Manganese basic special 
14 Low Manganese basic . 


. 
. 
. 
. 


1 . 50 — I .75 
I.25 – 1 .50 

Under 0 - 35 
1 :00 – 1 : 25 
1 .00 & under 

( Low Manganese Grades). 
2 - 75 - 3 .25 0 . 50 1. 00 Under 0 . 40 
2- 25 — 2- 75 

Under 0 . 40 
1. 75 — 2: 25 

Under 0 . 40 
1:50 – 1 75 

Under 0 - 40 
1-25 — 1:50 

Under 0 .35 
1 . 00 — 1 - 25 

Under 0 - 35 
1 . 00 & 

Under 0. 35 
under 


. 2. 
. 3 . 
. 4. 
. t. 


! I . 


Under 0 . 035 
Under 0 . 050 
Under 0 . 050 
Under 0. 050 
Under 0 .050 
Under 0 . 050 
Under 0. 050 


Rs. 161 
Rs. 157 
Rs. 153 
Rs. 151 
Rs . 149 


Rs. 176 
Rs. 172 
Rs. 168 
Rs. 166 
Rs. 164 
Rs, 162 
Rs. 160 


_ 


. 


Rs. 147 


[PARTII—Sec.8 


. 


. 


. 


Rs. 145 


The above prices are subject to the following further quality extras / Penalties . 

Extras and Penalties. 


. 


PARTII-SEÇ.3] 


Variation from Standard Grades 


Extras 
Penalties 


Base Price 
items to which 

applicable 


Variation from Standard 

Grades 


Extras 
Penalties 


Base Price 
items to Fluich 

applicable 


Extras per ton 


Penalty per 

ton 


Rs. 4 


Item 1 & 8 


Rs. 25 


Item 1 – 14 


A . (1) High Silicon for each increase of 0 . 50 above 

3 . 25 % . . . . . . 
(2 ) Manganese for each 0 .50 % increase above 
I 30 % 

of Grade Pig Iron 
B . (1) Standard Sulphur Maoganese below 0 . 500 


Rs. 30 


Item 


1 - 14 


Rs. 2 Item 1 - 7 
Penalty per 1012 

Rs. 12 Item 8 – 14 


(3) Manganese not below 0 . 506, Sul 

phur 0 . 066 % - 0 - 080° . . . 
( 4 ) Manganese Dot below 0 . 50 % , 

Sulphur 0 . 081 , and over . 
(5) Manganese below 0 - 50 % , Sulphur 
0 . 50002 0 . 065 % 

. 
(6 ) Manganes e below 0 . 50 % , Sulphur 

0 . 0666 - 9 . 080 . . 


Rs. 19 


Item 


8 - 14 


( 2 ) Manganese pot below 0 . 506, Sulphur 0 . 50 % 

0 . 065 % . . . . . . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,MAY12,1956 


Rs. 14 


Item 


1 - 14 


Rs. 27 


Item 8 - 14 


( 7 ) Manganese below 0 . 50 % , Sulphur 

0 . 081 % and over 


Rs. 32 


Item 8 — 14 


675 


676 


THE -GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


[PART II — Sec. 3 


CONDITIONS FOR SALE 


PART 1 – GENERAL 


I. In respect of sales by Registered Producers and by all persons other than 
Registered Producere the prices in Columns I and II of the above schedule and 
the other provisions of this Notification relevant thereto , shall come into force with 
cffect from the date on which they are notified in the Gasette of India and notwithstanding 
the rartes at which orders have been booked , shall apply to all deliveries effected on and after this 
date. In cases of deliveries effected by rail, the date of Railway Receipt shall be deemed to be the 
date of delivery , and for deliveries by road the date of delivery is the date on which the Pig Iron 
leaves the Works, Stock Yard or Godown. 


2 . To arrive at the prices for places other than Calcutta , Bombay, Madras , Tatanagar and 
Burnpore place extras given in Appendix II are to be added . For any place not included in Appen 
dix II, the place Extra will be determined with reference to the actual Railway freight of Pig Iron 
in wagon load from the nearest of the above 5 ports except that for places which are not within 250 
miles of the ports of Tatanagar or Burnporç the place extra will be determined with reference to the 
three ports of Calcutta , Bombay and Madras. In any dispute regarding the place Extra, the decision 
of the Iron and Steel Controller shall be final. 


3 . If materials sold f.o . .. destination are despatched at Customer s request by any route other 
than the cheapest, the difference in freightwill be borne by the customers . 


4 . The Base prices adjusted for place extras are subject to the further quality extras and 
differentials as shown in the Schedule . 


PART II. — SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR SALES BY REGISTERED PRODUCERS 
1. For deliveries by rail in smalle by Producers the sale will be made f.o .r, despatching 

station and in " full wagon loads" f.0 . 1. destination station . 
2 . Octroi and Sales or other taxes incurred in the process of delivering materials to 

customers will be borne by the latter . 


PART III . - SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR SALES BY CONTROLLED 

STOCKHOLDERS 
All sales by Controlled Stockholders are ex - yard or f. o .1 . Siding. No extra charge is ad 
missible when delivery is made ex - yard or f.0 . 1, Siding or into Workshops adjoining Stockholders 
yard . Where delivery is undertaken by Controlled Stockholders at the request of the buyer, 
delivery charges shall not, except by special arrangement between the Stockholder and buyer , 
exceed the following rates : 


Rs. A . P . Per ton 


Calcutta . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Bombay 


IO OO 
1000 
5 12 0 


Delhi ( Old & New ). 


0 


0 


Kanpur . 
Madras . 
Vizianagranr , 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 


0 


. 


Jullundur 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


, 


4 


0 


0 


PART IV . - SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR SALES BY ALL PERSONSOTHER THAN REGISTERED PRODUCERS 


Octroi and sales or other taxes levied on Pig Iron entering the Seller s yard by the Government 
or the local authority of the State or Town where the stockyard is situated and similar taxes incurred 
in the process of delivery of materials from Seller s yard or siding to the customers shall be borne 


PART II - SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1958 


677 


by the latter . Any sales tax paid by the seller to a Registered Producer shall also be borne by the 
customer - 


SCHEDULE IV 


OTHER CATEGORIES OF IRON AND STEEL 


(Price in rupees per ton ) 


Maximum Base Prices at Calcutta , Bombay, Madras , 

Tatanagar, and Burnpore 
Col. I 

Col. II Col. III 


Materials 


price 
Item 
No. 


For sales by 

Registered 
Producers 


For sales by 

Controlled 
Stock - holders 


For sales by all 

persons other 
than Registered 
Producers and 

Controlled 
Stock -holders 


Un - 
tested 


Tested 


Un - 
tested 


Tested 


Un - 


Tested 


tested 


550 


535 


585 


550 


600 


540 


525 


575 


540 


590 


SIS 


545 


595 


560 


673 


560 
638 
648 
648 
580 


610 
688 
698 


620 
635 


683 
683 
615 


570 


630 


I Bars & Rods (Rounds & Squares 505 

below 3 " and Flats upto and 

including so wide), 
2 Bars other sizes (Rounds and 495 

Squares 3 " and above and 

Flats over 5 " wide ). 
3 Structurals, Bearing Plates & 

Crossing Sleeper Bars . 
4 Plates, 3 /8 " and up . . 

Chequered Plates 1 /4 " and up . 
6 Boiler Plates, 3 /8 " and up . 
7 Black sheets gauge to to 14 
8 Galvanised Corrugated Sheets 

gauge 24 in lengths 6 / 10 ft. 
9 ( a ) Heavy Rails above 30 lbs . . 

(6 ) Heavy Rails Second Class . 
10 Fish Plates for Heavy Rails 
II Light Rails 30 lbs . & below 
12 Fish Plates for Light Rails 
13 Tool Steel Bars ( TSC - 2 / 2A ) . 
14 Bullet Proof Plates Specn . . 

IT /7TC . 
15 Shell Steel Blooms 8 " & 10 " 

Squares . 
16 Shell Steel Bars 5 /8 " to 6 " dia . 

and Gothic Sec . 


735 


770 


770 


785 


565 


622 


625 


733 
655 
840 


585 


595 


410 


395 
415 


420 
440 


430 


1 , 120 
1 , 170 


17 (a ) Booms and Slabs 

(6 ) Billets . . 
18 Box Strapping : 

( a ) 3 /4 " X 24 BG . . 

(6 ) 1 / 2 " X 24 /26 BG . 
19 Baling Hoops in coils over 100 ft , 

in length : 
(a) 3/4" X 19/ 20 BG . . . 800 
(6) I" X, I /16 " . . . 680 


1 ,155 
1 ,205 


1 , 175 
1 ,225 


.. 
. . 


835 
715 


. 
. . 


855 
735 


.. 
.. 


678 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1966 


[PART II— SEC . 3 


CONDITIONS FOR SALE 


PART I. GENERAL 


The prices shown in the above Schedule and the other provisions relevant thereto as sct 
forth below , shall come into force with cffect from the date on which they are published in the 
Gaxette of India and notwithstanding the rates at which an order has been booked and /or the 
materials paid for , shall apply to all deliveries effected on or after that date . In all cases where 
delivery is effected by rail, the date of the Railway Receipt shall be deemed to be the date of 
delivery . 


2 . To arrive at the base prices for places other than Calcutta , Bombay , Mudras , Tatanugar 
and Burnpore the Place extras given in the Freight (Plaçe extra ) List at Appendix I , are to be 
taken into account in the manner indicated in the Special Conditions below : 


For any place not included in that List, the Place Extra will be determined with reference 
to the actual railway freight from the nearest of the above fiye ports except that for places which 
are not within 250 miles of the ‘Ports of Tatanagar or Burnpore , the Place Extras will be determined 
with reference to the thrce ports of Calcutta , Bombay and Madras. In any dispute regarding 
the Place Extras , the decision of the Iron and Sreel Controller shall be final. 

3 . The base prices adjusted for place extras are for standard lengths and sizes and are sub 
Ject to the extras and differentials shown in the Extras List at Appendix III . 

4 . Pricca for tested materials apply only where a copy of Test Certificate recognised by the 
Goycrnment of India is supplied with the materials. 

Tested materials must be within the tolerance specificd ; untested materials must be within 
the usual commercial tolerance . 

5 . The chargeable weight in cases of Bars ( 1 / 2" and over ), Structurals , Plates and Rails is 
Sectional weight and in cases of Rods (below 1 /2 " ), Semis , and Sheets is Actual weight. In the 
case of materials sold on sectional weight to a tested specification which allows only a plus tolerance 
( 8. 8 ., Boiler Plates ) the chargeable weight will be the theoretical weight plus half the tolerance . 

s (a ). The weight tolerance admissible for untested materials is plus /minus 4 % and for 
tested materials plus/ 

minus 2 1 /2 % . In case the Railway Receipt weight (actual weight 
of such materials as are chargeable on the basis of sectional weight is within the above prescribed 
weight tolerances (except in case of thosc tested materials which allow only a plus tolerance 8. g ., 
Boiler plates ) the sectional weight should be accepted as correct. 

PART II .- - SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR SALES BY REGISTERED PRODUCERS. 
I Where, in accordance with the conditions of sale, sales are made f.o .r. destination by a 
Registered Producer , the rates shown in Column I above adjusted by adding the place extra for 
the destination apply to all such deliveries in wagon loads, irrespective of whether the materials 
are sent under M . C . Note or R . M . C . rate. Where wagons are not fully loaded the customers 
shall pay thc difference between the actual freight per ton and the amount of frcight per ton which 
would have been incurred if the wagon had been fully loaded . Where , in accordance with the 
conditions of sale , sales are made by a Registered Producer ex - works or f.o .r . Seller s Siding , the 
rates in Column I above a ljusted by adding the P /ac Extra for the place in which the works are 
situated , shall apply to such sales . Sales in wagon loads by the Main Producers will normally 
be effected f.o . r. Destination and sales by Registered Producers other than Main Producers will 
normally be effected ex -works or f.o . r. Seller s Siding. A list of Registered Producers is given 
below . 

2 . For deliveries by rail in smalls by the Main Producers the sale should be made f.o . r . 
Despatching Station and the base rate shall be adjusted by adding the Place Extra for the Des 
patching Station , In such cases the actual freightmust be borne by the buyer. 

3 . If materials sold f.or. Destination are at the Customer s request despatched by a route 
other than the cheapest, the difference in freight will be borne by the customer, 

4 . Octroi, Sales and other taxes incurred in the process of delivery of materials from Seller s 
yard or Siding to customer will be borne by the latter . 

5. All sales to Controlled Stockholders hy all Registered Producers including the Main 
Producers will be made at f.or, destination prices and will apply to deliveries at the Stockholders 
siding, if any, or to his nearest Railway Station . 


6 . In respect of supplies to consignces in the Dominion of Pakistan on f. o .b . Calcutta basis , 
extra charges ( exclusive of any duty or tax payable under any law for the time being in force ) as 
fixed by the Controller, in consultation with the Steel Price Negotiations Committee, from time 
to time, will be payable . This extra charge has been fixed at Rs. 20 /- per ton for the 
time being. 


PART II — Src . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1956 


679 


- 


- 


- 


- 


PART III - SPACIAL CONDITIONS FOR SALES BY CONTROLLED STOCK HOLDERS 


1. The rates shown in Column II above apply to all sales by Controlled Stockholders 
and are subject to the Place Extra given in the Freight (Place Extras) List at Appendix I for the 
place in which the Stockyard of the Controlled Stockholder is situated . 

2 . All sales by Controlled Stockholders are ex - yard or f. o .r. Siding. No extra charge is 
admissible when delivery is made ex - yard or 1.0 .1. Siding or into workshops adjoining Stockholder s 
yard . For such sales the charges incurred for loading the stoel in the wagons or lorries should 
be borne by the Controllcd Stockists. Where delivery is undertaken by Controlled Stockholder 
at the request of the buyer , delivery charges shall not , except by special arrangement between 
the stockholder and buyer, exceed the following rutes 


aconurbout 


OVOOOOOO 


Per Ton . 


6 . Madras 


. 


. 


Rs. A . P . 
1. Ambala , 

000 Per Ton . 
2 . Bombay . 

o Per Ton . 
Calcutta . 

o Per Ton . 
4 . Cuttack 

O Per Ton . 
5. Delhi (Old and New ) 
Jullundur 

4 0 0 Per Ton . 
7 . Kanpur . . 

o Per Ton , 

6 8 0 Per Ton . 
9 . Nagpur . 

0 0 Per Ton . 
10 . Vizianagram 

Per Ton . 
3 . The rates in Column II above are for cagl ales. The question of credit facilities will 
be a mutter for negotiations between the Customers and the Controlled Stockholders. 

4 . Octroi, Sales and other taxes levied on steel entering the Controlled Stockholder s yard 
by the Government or the Local Authority of the State or Town where the stockyard is situated 
and similar taxes incurred in the process of delivery of materials from Seller s yard or Siding to 
the Customer shall be borne by the latter , 

5 . The base prices in Column II above are for sizes and lengths available in stock . Custo 
mers requiring material cut to lengths or sizes not available in stock will be required to pay cutting 
and wastage charges agreed between Customers and the Stockholders. 


with 


PART IV - SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR SALES BY ALL PERSONS OTHER THAN PRODUCTOS 

AND CONTROLLED STOCK HOLDERS 
I. The basc rates given in Column III above are ex - site and apply to sales by all persono 
other than Producers and Controlled Stockholders and are subject to the Place Extras given in 
the Freight (Place Extras ) List al Appendix I for the place where the material is lying and are 
not subject to additional charges for cutting or for credit facilitics. 

2 . Octroi, Sales and other taxes levied on steel entering the Stockholder s yard hy the Govern 
ment or the Local Authority of the State or Town where the stockyard is situated and similar 
taxes incurred in the process of delivery ofmaterials from Seller s yard or Siding to the Customer 
shall be borne by the latter. 

List « f Registered Producers 
I. Messrs. Tata Iron and Steel Co . Ltd ., 23B , Netaji Subhas Road , Calcutta (Main Producer), 

Indian Iron and Steel Co. Ltd ., 12, Mission Row , Calcutta (Main Producer ). 
Tinplate Co . of India , Ltd ., 4 , Bankshall Street, Calcutta . 
Eagle Rolling Mills Ltd ., Kumardhubi. 
Indian Steel & Wire Products Ltd ., Indranagar , P . O . Tatanagar (Main l roducer). 
Indian Steel Rolling Mills , Negapalam , 
Guest , Keen , Williams, Ltd ., 41, Chowringhcc Road , Calcutta 

J. K . Iron and Steel Co . Lid ., Kumla Tower, Kanpur. 
National Iron and Steel Co . Ltd ., Stephen House , 4 , Dalhousic Sq ., Calcutta. 
Bhartia Electric Steel Co. Ltd ., 42, Shihtala Street, Calcutta . 
Singh Engineering Works Ltd ., Post Box No. 66 , G . T . Road , Kunpur. 
Delhi Iron and Steel Co , Lid ., Grand Trunk Road , Ghaziabad . 
Lauls Ltd ., Faridabad Township . 
Cawnpore Rolling Mills Ltd ., Harrisganj, Kanpur, 
Taj Iron and Steel Works , Ltd ., 247 , Ripon Road , Byculla , Bombay , 


wnimtonoodgesig 


IO . 


II . 


13 . 


14 . 


IS . 


680 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


[ PART II - Sec. 3 


20 . 


16 . Messrs. Batala Engineering Co . Ltd ., Batala, E . Punjab . 
2 Sri Rama Machinery Corporation Ltd., Sundar Mahal, 55 , Peter Road , Cathedral 

Post , Madras . 
Prakash Engineering Co. and Rolling Mills, Freegunj, Agra City . 
Hindusthan Iron and Steel Co ., 8 , Rajendra Deb Road , Calcutta . 
Partap Steel Rolling Mills, Chhcharta , E . Punjab . 
Mukand Iron and Steel Works Ltd ., Agra Road , Kurla , Bombay . 
Bhartia Steel and Enginecring Co . Ltd ., 61, Keshab Sen Street , Calcutta . 
Mysore Iron and Steel Works, Bhadravati , Mysore (Main Producer ). 

Krishna Steel Industries Ltd ., Krishna Niwas, 301, Musid Bunder Road , Bombay. 
25 . 

National Rolling and Steel Ropes , Ltd ., Stephen House , 4 , Dalhousie Square , 

Calcutta . 
Man Industrial Corporation Ltd ., Near Loco - Jaipur, Jaipur. 
Bombay Steel Rolling Mills Ltd ., 33 , Netaji Subhas Road , Calcutta - I. 

J. K . Steel Ltd ., 7 , Council House Street, Calcutta . 
Hind Wire Industries Ltd ., P - 16 , Kalakar Street, Calcutta . 


26 . 
27. 


SCHEDULE V 
IRON AND STEEL SCRAP 
PART I- A - - FRESH UNUSED DEFECTIVE AND CUTTINGS 


- 


- 


- 


Maximum basic prices per ton at 
Calcutta , Bombay, Madras, Tala - 
nagar and Burnpore . 


Item 


Description or Classification of materials 


No. 


Col. I Col. II Col. III 
For sales For sales For sales 
by Cont - by Scrap by all per 
rolled Sour- Merchants song other 
ces other who have than those 
than thosc been dec mentioned 
mentioned lared Con - in Cois . I 
in Col, II trolled Sour- and II 

ces 


Rs. 


RS 
. 


Rs. 


1. Bars and Rods Mild Steel (Rounds and Squares 

below 3 " and Flats upto and including 5 " 
wide) - Defective or Rejected - - Bars above 
s long and Rods above 8 - Base . 


460 


485 


505 


400 


425 


445 


514 


539 


559 


2 . Fishplates - Defective or Rejected for heavy or 

light rails . . . . . . 
3. Plates Defective or Rejected - full - size--- 3/ 8 " 

and up thick - Base 
4 . Plates — Chequered 1 /4 " and up Defcctive or 
RejectedFull size - Base . 

. 
5 . Rails — Steel - Defective of Rejected above 

12 and up long . . . . . 

(a ) Light . . . . . . 
(6) Heavy . . . . . 


530 


555 


575 


460 


485 


505 


450 


475 


495 


PART 11 -- SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1958 


681 


3 


4 


Rs. 


Rs. 


6 . Semis Defective of Rejected (Ingots , Blooms, 

Billets - over 4 " . Slabs over 3 " thick ). 


315 


340 


7 . Sheet --- 


(4 ) Black - Defective or Rejected and cut 

down over 24 " width and not below 4 
in length , 10 / 14G - Base . . . 


475 


500 


520 


(6 ) Black - Cuttings - - over 24 " In width and 

between 2 to 4 in length - 10 / 14G with 
stickers — Base 


415 


440 


460 


8 . Sheets ----Galvanised Corrugated 

Defective or Rejected and Spotted ---Full 

size 24 gauge - Buse . . . 
9 . Sleepers — Steel — Defective or Rejected 


670 


695 


715 


( a ) Metre Gauge . 
( b ) Broad Gauge . 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


475 
425 


. 


450 


470 


360 


385 


405 


10. Sleeper Bars - Defective or Rejected 9 and 

above. . . 
II. Structurals ( including Bars , Rounds and 

Squares 3 " and above and Flats above 5 " 
wide) - Defective. Rejected and non 
standard over 9 long -- Base . , . . 


475 
800 


500 
830 


$ 20 
850 


12 . Tinplate waste wastefull size all gauges 


. 


. 


335 


355 


430 
335 
255 


450 
355 
275 


230 


PART I-B - FRESH UNUSED INDUSTRIAL SCRAP 
I . Axles - - Straight -- Defective or Rejected 

310 
2 , Bars and Rods - Mild Steel (Round and Squares 

below 3 " and Flats upto and including 5 " 
wide) 
(1) Cuttings - 2 to 9 Bars and 2 to 8 Rods — 
Base . 

405 
(ii) Cuttings — under 2 to I long . 310 

( iii ) Cuttings — under I long . . 
3. Bars -- High Carbon , Octagonal 

Defective or Rejected and Cuttings ; 
(1) 2 long and above . . . . 

460 
(11) Below 2 long 

335 
4 . Bars --- Spring Stcel : 

(1) Defective or Rejected over 9 in length 
(1 ) Defective or Rejected and Cuttings 2 
to g in length : 

370 
( iii ) Cuttings I to under 2 in length . 

340 
( iv ) Cuttings under I long . . . 250 


485 
360 


505 
380 


460 


485 


505 


415 


395 
365 
275 


385 


295 


N .B .- Items marked Base will carry only Sectional Extras ag in Extras List at Appendix III for 

Prime Quality Steel. 


682 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


[ PART II — SEC, 3 

- - - - - 


Rs. 


Rs. 


5 . Hoops or Thin Flats - Defective or Rejected 

and Cuttings. . . 3 / 16 " to 1 / 16 " in thickness 
and all widths ; 
(1) Over 10 long 
(12) Between 2 to 1o long . . . 
( 111 ) Below 2 long 


365 


320 
3IO 
190 


345 
335 
215 


3 


6 . Hoops Defective and Cuttings : 

(i ) 3 / 4 " X 19 / 20G over 10 in length . 
(22) 3 / 4 " X 18 / 18G over 1o in length 
(117 ) 3 / 4 " all gauges and below 1o in length 


575 


595 


540 
275 


5రం 


295 


375 


395 


350 
325 


350 


370 


370 
320 


395 
345 


450 


475 


320 


345 
245 


365 
265 


220 


425 


450 


470 


7 . Plates, Cuttings : 

(i ) Ends and Strips, Straight sheared , below 

5 / 16 " thick and above 10 " wide - B4se . 
(ii) Ends and Strips below 5 / 16 " and in 

widths upto 10" -- Base . . . 
8 . Plates Chequered below 5 / 16 " - Base 

(i ) Shcaring aboye 10 " wide . 

( ii ) Şlcarings upto 10 " wide . 
9 . Plates, Black - Rejected full size as rolled 

mixed guages . . . 
10 . Plates, Black - - Cuttings : 

(i) Thin Straighư shçared mixed gauges 

20 / 34 , 4" wide and over , . 
( ii ) Thick hand -bundled mixed gauges 20/34, 

2 " wide and over . . . . 
II. P . C . R . C . A . . Wasters -mixed gauges full size 

( If these are sorted out by gauges, gauge 
extras as fixed for Tin Plate Co., will 

apply ). . . . . . . 
12 . P . C .R . C .A . Strips - -Cuttings - -mixed gauges 

( If these are sorted out by gauges , gauge 
extras as fixed for Tin Plate Co., will 
apply ). 
( 2) Over 6 " wide , 
(i ) 3 to 6 " wide . 

( 111) Under 3 " wide 
13 . Rails — Şteel - Cuttings : 

(i) Under 2 (Light or Heavy ) . . . 

( ii) 1 to 12 long. - Light . 
14. Roll Spoils — below 3/4 " in thickness and all 

lengths 
15 . Sheets , Black -Cuttings , Fishtails and cleancut 

mixed 6 " / 24" wide : 
( i) 13 / 18 gauge 
(ii) 19 / 22 gauge. . 
(iii) 24 gauge 
(12 ) 26 gauge 
( v ) 28 gauge 

( VI ) 30 gauge 
16 . Sheets - Black , Cuttings annealed clcançut 

pieces 6 " to under 24" wide - mixed gaugęs. 


330 


290 
240 


350 
3то 
260 


270 
320 


295 
345 


315 


365 


320 


345 


365 


360 


370 


399 


400 
410 
420 
430 


425 
535 
445 
455 


405 
415 
445 
455 
465 
475 


335 


360 


380 


N . B . Items marked Base will carry only Sectional Extras as in Extras list at Appendix III for 

Prime quality steel, 


PART II - SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1956 


683 


Rs. 


Ro, 


Rs. 


17. Sheets -- Black , Cuttings 6 " and up wide all 

Fishtails 10 to 12 gauges or mixed gauges . 


270 


295 


315 


210 


235 


255 


18. Shcets - Black , cuttings _ 2 " to under 6 " wide 

Base 
19 . Sheets 

(a ) Galvanised Plain cuttings of any or 

mixed gauges 
( ) Galvanized Corrugated cuttings of any 

or mixed gauges 


510 


535 


555 


460 


485 


505 


20 . Structurals cuttings 2 / 9 long including those 

of bars (Rounds and squares 3 " and above and 
Flats above 5 " widc) Baso . (Except Joists 
channels and angles 5 / 16 " thick and up ) . 


350 


375 


395 


21 . Structurals Cuttings under 2 long including 

cuttings ur Bars , (Rounds and Squares 3 " 
and above and Flat above 5 " wide , . 


250 


275 


295 


22 . Tinplate Strips — 28 gauge and thicker in lots : 

( If these are sorted out by gauges , gauge 
extra as fixed for Tin Plate Co . , will apply ) . 
Minimun Width Maximum Width 


560 


605 


30 


500 


555 
495 


585 
525 
465 


470 


440 
410 


435 


( a ) over 6 " 
(b ) over 3 " 
( C ) over 2 
( d ) over I " 
( c ) over 1 /2 " 

over 1/ 2 " 
23 . Tin Bars and Sheet Bars Crop - ends 2 to 6" 

wide . . . . . . . 
24 . Wirc, Defective and Short Lengths Specific 

gauges - 2 to 3 SWG (Gauge extras as 
fixed for M / S . Indian Steel and Wire 
Producte Lid , will apply ). 
( 4 ) Hard Bright 
( ь) Алпеңled 

) Galvanised ( Including Tclegraph ) 
(d ) Barbed 


300 


325 


345 


50 


575 


600 


625 


595 
645 
735 


690 


715 


800 


825 


25 . Wire, Scrap and Cuttings in mixed unsorted 

gauges : 
( a ) Hard bright , 
(5 ) Annealed 
(c ) Galyanised , 


525 


500 
550 
640 


575 


665 


900 


26 . Wire,--- Twisted , Bent and rusty - mixed or 

unmixed gauges : 


395 


( a ) Unannealled 
(6 ) Anncaled 
(c ) Galvanised 
(4 ) Barbed 


360 


. . 


440 
550 


AW VOO 


485 


595 


27 . Wire Nails -- Defective, Rejected and /or Rusty 

of any gauge or size , 


600 


625 


645 


N . B . — Itemsmarked Base will carry only Sectional Extras as in Extras List at Appendix III 

for Prime Quality Steel, 


684 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


(PART II — Sec. 3 


3 


H 


PART I-C - USEDJINDUSTRIAL SCRAP 

Rs. 
1. Axles , Straight - Railway ) — not fit for IC 
rolling ! 

240 


Rs . 


Rg 


R . 


285 


355 


330 
250 
170 


275 


375 
295 
ZIS 


195 


2 . Bars and Rodg Mild Steel (Round and Squarcs 

below 3 " and Flats upto and including 5 " 
wide ) : 

© 2 long and above Base 
(1 ) Cuttings below 2 and upto I long . 
(111) Cuttings under I long . 
(a ) Bars — Spring Steel : 

(i) Over 9 in length . 
( ii ) Cuttings 2 / 9 in length 
(iii) Cuttings i to under z 

(iv ) Cuttings under I long 
(6 ) Crow Bars - Rejected 2 & over , . 


5 


ww 


330 


240 
190 


235 


245 


290 


195 


220 


240 


4 . Dog Spikes 
5 . Draw Bars ( Railway Engine and Carriage ) 

with or without hooks : 


( a ) 6 and above in length 
(6 ) Below 6 in length 


. 


. 


. 


235 
220 


260 
245 


280 
265 


6 . ( A ) Fencing Poste - Punched - complete or broken 

2 long and over 
( B ) Files — Steel , 

( C ) Files - Broken but usable as files . . 
7 . Fish Plates for Heavy or Light Rails -usable . 
8 . Hoops or thin Flats : 


220 
545 
345 


245 
570 
370 


390 


290 


315 


335 


225 


270 


( 0) 10 to 16 gauge over to long . . 
( it ) 3 / 4 " x 20 gauge over Ic in length . 
(111 ) 3 / 4 " X 18 / 19 gauge over roʻ in length 


415 
385 


250 
440 
410 


460 


430 


9 . Hoops or thin Flats 1 / 8 " and thinner cuttinge 

below 1o in length - all width 


200 


225 


245 


IO . Plates Stcel, with or without holes - all sizes 

below 5 / 16 " thick . . . . . 


240 


265 


285 


II . Plates - Boiler - Steel, with or without holes 

below 5 / 16 " thickness — all lengths . . 


305 


325 


335 


360 


293 


380 


320 


240 


300 
210 


320 


12 . Rails : 

( a ) Above 27 long when sold as Trans 

mission Poles -selected 
( b ) Above 12 long - Light 
(c ) Above 12 long - Heavy 
( d ) All rails Light or Heavy r to 2 long . 

( ) Light Rail Cuttings over 2 to 12 long. . 
13. ( A ) Sheets - -Galvanised Corrugated or plain 

mixed or unmixed gauges : 
( a ) Used - - but as good as new , 
(6 ) Used - demaged but utilisable . . 
( c ) Used - damaged and unutilisable . 


275 


230 
295 


455 


500 


2 


unu 


360 
240 


380 
260 


( B ) Sheets , Black - Plain or corrugated or 

Panel Sheets mixed jr unmixed gauge 
fit for use as sheet cuttings . . . 


210 


235 


255 


N , B . Items marked Base will carry only Sectional Extras as in Extras List at Appendix III 

for prime quality Steel. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


PART II - SEC . 3 ] 
- - - SI 


Re. 


Rs . 


Rs. 


170 


195 


215 


60 


335 
235 


380 
280 


14 . Sleepers , pressed - steel - cutiings or full 

length not fit for re - rolling . . . 
15. Spring , Steel - Laminated , Volute, Helical 

and Spiral : 

(1) Complete . . . . . 

(in) Broken pieces 
16 . Structurals cuttings above 9 long including 

those of Rounds and Squara 3 and above 

thick and Flats above 5 " wide - - Baso 
17 . ( A ) Structurals cuttings under 2 long includ . 

ing those of Rounds and Squares 3 and 

above thick and Flat above 5 " wide , 
( B ) Tubes : 

( 1 ) Flue 8 and over . . . . 
a ) Boiler 8 and over 
(iii) Element 8 and over 


285 


310 


330 


220 


240 


275 
275 
275 


295 
295 
295 


275 


(C ) Vacuum Pipes 8 and over . 
18 . Wire - mixed of all sizes and gauges . 


. 
. 


. 


5 
320 


275 


300 


PART II - A - FRESH RE-ROLLABLE SCRAP 


Item 
No. 


Description or classification of materials 


Maximum 
basic prices 
per ton at 
Calcutta , 
Bombay , 
Madras , 
Tatanagar 

and 
Burnpur 


Rs. 


315 
305 
315 


1 . Plates, shearinga (resulting from fabrication work or from Producers ) both 

Plain and Chequered of thickness 5 / 16 " and up , . 
2 . Rails , Steel Heavy , cuttings 2 to 12 long . 
3 . Rolls -spoils 3 / 4 and thicker 
4 . Semis Defective Billcts upto 4 " and Slabs upto 3 " Sheet Bars Tin Bars 

and Sleepers Bars and Flat Bars and also Sheet Bar and Tin Bar Crop 
Ends above 6 " wide and any other materials of thickness 5 / 16 " and 

up . . . . . 
5. Sleeper Bars Cutrings 2 to below g 
6. Structural cuttings vis.. Joists , Channels and Angles z to long and 3/ 16 " 

thick an dup 
7. All other fresh materials considered by Iron and Steel Controller as suitable 

or fit for Re- rolling 


325 
325 


325 


31 


( 1) Items marked Base will carry sectional Extras as in Extras List at Appendix III for prime 

quality steel. 


( 2 ) In case the materials which have been classified under Part I ] I item No . I are not broken 

and can be utilised as Industrial Scrap and are not covered by any item of Part 1-- C , these 
should be classified under Part I - C and charged at f. o .r . Port rates per ton us under : 

Col I Col, II. Col. III 


Rs. 150 /- 


Rs. 175 /- 


Rs . 1951 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - - - - - - 


686 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1966 


[ PART II — SEC . 3 


J 


Description or classification ofmaterials 


Item 

No. 


Maximum 
basic prices 

per ton at 
Calcutta , 
Bombay , 
Madras , 
Tatanagar 

and 
Burnpur 


Rs. 


PART II- B - USED RE- ROLLABLH SCRAP 
I. Axles and CrankAxles StraightRailway - - Loco C & W fit for re - rolling 
2 . Drew Bars - Steel (With or without Hook ) above 6 long , . 
3 . Fish plates for Heavy Rails , unscrviccable 
4 . Plates Shipbuilding, Railways, cte , with or without holes 5/ 16 " and up thick 

ness . . 
5. Ralls -- Steel Heavy z to 12 long ( including points and Crossings and un 
serviceable rails of all length 

, , , , , , 
6 , Sleepers , Steel- Full lengths 
7 . Structurals including Bars (Rounds and Squarcs 3 and above, fats above 

5 " wide) to long . . 
8 . Tie Bars - Mild Steel punched 2 long and over 
9 . Tyres Scrap (with or without Studholes) . 
10 . All other used materials from any source including such scrap recovered 

from old fabrication (Heavy Structurals and Bars over 5/ 16 " thickness 
inclusive) suitable or fit for - rerolling 


265 


250 


N . B . If any material described under Part IIA and B above is allotted to a Controlled Scrap 

Merchant for resale, the chargeable rate of the stockist will be Rs. 23/- per ton more than 
the rate fixed for the materials under this Part. 


N .B . The following Railway materials will be included in item No. 10 of Part IIB above : 

( 1) Fabricated materials of Rounds, Squares and Flats with /without attachments . 
(2 ) Fire Prickers 1- 1/4 " Sq, and up . 
(3 ) Truss Bars 1 - 1/4" Sq . and up . 
( 4 ) Beams, fabricated , without attachment. 
(5 ) Channels, fabricated comprising of bogie, under- frames and wagen under - frames . 
(6 ) Channels , fabricated , Engine and Tender Frames. 


PART III - MELTING SCRAP 


Item 


Description or Classification of materials 


Maximium 
basic prices 
per ton 
ex -site 


No. 


I. Mild Steel Commercial quality Melting Scrap ( excluding Borings and Turn 

ings and Special quality low Phosphorus Melting Scrap with Phosphorus 
content not exceeding os, per cent ), Cast Steel Scrap and perforated 

Plates 1 /8 " 1 etc 
2 . Fresh Boring alnd Turnings 
3 . Special quality low Phosphorus steel Melting Scrap 

(1) Phosphorus content not exceeding 04 per cent. . . 
(it) Phosphorus content above , . 04 per cent. but not exceeding og 

per cent. 


PART II — Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1956 


687 


Tap Grade II 


: 


: 


: 


: 


: 


: 


: 


4 . Cast Iron Melting Scrap Grade I . 

Grade II . . . . . . 
5 . Loco Types and Wheels - broken . 
6 . Spring Steel Melting Scrap (Including volute , Helical and spiral Spring 

90 
under I long broken unusable files ) . 

Rate per ton /.0 . . Port. 
Col. I Col. II 


7 . Ingot Moulds Scrap broken . 
8 . Ingot Moulds Scrap unbroken 


. 


Rs, IIS - 
95 / - 


Rş. 130 / 
110 / 


Do. 


Do. 


NOTE, I. No Place Extra is chargeable for sale of Melting Scrap except Ingot Moulds Scrap Item 

No . 7 and 8 , 
2 . The following Railway Scrap materials will be included in item No , I of Part III above 

( 1) Axle Boxes C & W Cast Steel broken or un - reclaimable 
( 2 ) Axle Boxes ( Loco ) 

Do, 
( 3 ) Axle Guards 

Do. 
( 4 ) Buffer Casing 

Do . 
(5 ) Bogie Pivots 
( 6 ) Buckles 
( 7 ) Brake Leyers 
(8 ) Brake Shafts 
(9 ) Brake Beams Flats 

Do. 
( 10 ) Bhawers 
( 11 ) Beatcis Scrap 

Do. 
( 12 ) Buffers Spindle and Beads- case -stcel and broken or wnscrviceable or un -reclaimable . 
( 13 ) Boiler tubes 

Do. 
( 14 ) Bolts and Nuts not re -unable and cut pieces thereof 
( 15 ) Coupling Screws , Broken or unscrviceable . 
( 16 ) Coupler Components. 

Do. 
( 17 ) Drag Boxes 

Do . 
( 18 ) Dog Spikes 

Do . 
( 19 ) Drag Castings 
( 20 ) Draw Bar Hooks 

Do . 
( 21) Duplicate Low and Carriage 

Do. 
( 22 ) Duplicate Scrap C & W , 

Do. 
( 23 ) Draw Bar Face Plates 

Do . 
( 24 ) Engine Frame Parts 

Do . 
( 25 ) Enginc Pins, gorts and sizes 
( 26 ) Element Tubes 
( 27 ) Forged Steel 
( 28 ) Fencing Pogts under 2 long 
(29) Fish Platcs broken pieces 

Do . 
(30 ) Motion Girders 

Broken or unserviceable . 
(31) Flue Tubes and other sorts of vacuum pipes etc . 8 under 
(32 ). Perforated Plates 1 / 8 " and above 
(33) Plates M . S . Scrap fabricated 
(34 ) Rivets , Washers 
135 ) Rubbing Blocks 
(36 ) Rods of C - II sorts ( connecting Rods Slide Rods & Piston Rods) 
(37 ) Shcets M . S . Mixed sizes fit or melting purposes only 
(38) Scrap Boiler Trussers 
(39 ) Scrap Smoke Boxes 
(40 ) Stretcher Casting 

Do. 
(41 ) Trussers M . S . 
(42 ) Whcel Centres - C . & W . or Loco 

Do. 
(43 ) Wagon Doors Scrap 
(44 ) Wrought Iron Rails 
( 45 ) Wagon Pannels - mixed 
(46 ) Wrought Iron Girders 


Do. 


Do. 
Do . 


Do. 


ft . 


Do 


Do . 


688 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


[ PART II — Sec . 3 


Do. 


Do 
. 


3. The following Railway Scrap materials will be included in item No. 3 of Part III above. 
( 1 ) Draw Bars, Railway Engine and Carriage Wagong 

Broken or un - reclaim 
with or without hooks below 6 long . 

able , 
(2 ) Cranks and Crank Pins 
(3 ) Chains of sizes 
(4 ) Cross-heads of types 

Do . 
6 ) Tyres , Wheels and Axles -cut pieces (Loco and C & W .) 

Do, 
(6 ) Bering Plates Mild steel 

Do. 
4 . The follwoing Railway Scrap materials willbe included in item No. 4 of Part III above : 

(1) Broken pieces of Piston and Piston Valve Rings. 
(2 ) Bull Rings. 
(3 ) Steam Chest Liners. 
(4 ) Slide Blocks . 
(5 ) Pyllçys . 
(6 ) Vacuum Chambers . 
(7) C .I. Drums Defective 

Broken and un -reclaimable 
(8 ) Bearings Plates 5 / 8 " and thinner (cast) 
(9 ) Brakc blocks 

(iron ) 
( 10 ) Pot Sleepers - broken . 
( II ) Heavy Cylinders 

Broken or unreclaimablo 
( 12 ) Headers 

Do. 
( 13 ) Drag Boxca . 
( 14 ) Frames 

Do. 
( IS ) Fire Bars burnt 

Do . 
( 16 ) Wheels Chilled 

Broken or un -reclaimable . 
( 17 ) Heavy Cast Iron Scrap cach weighing 4 cwt, or 5 mds. and over, c.& , Buro Fire Bars 

and Chilled Wheels etc. (Gr. II ) 
( 18) Cast Iron Machinery parts — Clean and without attachments (Gr. I) 


Do. 


Do. 


N . B . If any materials described under Part III is allotted to a Controlled Scrap Merchant for 

resale his chargeable rate will be Rs. 15 / - per ton more than the rate fixed for the material 
under this part cxcept in the case of Borings and Turnings ( Item No, 2 ) for which his 
chargeable rate will be Rs. 20 /- per ton including his remuneration , 


CONDITIONS FOR SALE 

I, GENERAL 
1. This Scrap Price Schedule has been divided into the following Parts ; vir - 
( I) Part I-A , 

. Fresh Defectives and Cuttings, 
( 2 ) Part I - B , , , , , , Fresh Industrial Scrap , 
(3 ) Part I - C . . . , , Used Industrial Scrap , 
( 4 ) Part II - A . 

· Fresh Re- rollable Scrap , 
(5 ) Part II- B 

• Used Re-rollable Scrap and 
(6 ) Part III . . . . . . Melting Scrap . 


2 . In respect of all sales the prices and other provisions of this Schedule relevant thereto 
shall come into force with cffcct from the date on which they are published in the Gagette of 
India and notwithstanding the rates at which an order has been booked and /or materials paid for, 
shall apply to all deliveries cffected on or after that date . In cases where deliveries are effected 
by Rail, the date of Railway Receipt shall be deemed to be the date of delivery . 


PART II — SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


689 


3 . Except in respect of Melting Scrap in Part III of this Schedule for which the rates have 
been made applicable ex - site , the prices in this Schedule are on port basis . In respect of Defec 
tives and cuttings and Industrial and Rc- rollable Scrap , enumerated in Parts IA , IB , IC , IIA and 
IIB of the Schedule the prices at places other than ports ( Vix ., Calcutta , Bombay, Madras , Tata 
nagar and Burnpore ) will be determined by adding the place Extras given in Freight (Place Ex 
tras ) List at Appendix I in the manner indicated in the Special Conditions given below . For 
any rail-hcad place not included in the said list, the place Extra will be determined with refer 
ence to the actual Railway Freight per ton at P . T . rate for prime quality steel despatched in full 
wagon load to such places from the nearestof the above s Porty except that for places which are not 
within 250 miles of the Ports of Tatanagar or Burnpore the place extras will be determined with 
reference to the three ports of Calcutta , Bombay and Madras . For sale of Melting Scrap , no 
Placc Extra is chargeable . n the case of any dispute regarding the place extra , the decision of 
the Iron and Steel Controller shall be final. 


4 . ( a ) Extres for section , gauge or thickness or for quality as admissible from time to time 
for prime quality steel will apply to Defectives, Cuttings, Scrap etc , only to the extent indicated in 
the foot notes to the Scrap Price Schedule. 


(b ) Where a lot consists of a mixture of different Sections , sizes , thicknesses or gauges and a 
separate price for mixed lots has not been fixed , the price will be calculated on the lowest pricçd 
section , size , thickness or gaugc . 


5. Thesc prices are for cash sales. 
tion between the buyer and the seller . 


The question of Credit facilities is a matter for negotia 


6 . Octroi, Sales or other taxes incurred in the process of delivery from the seller to the buyer 
will be borne by the latter . 


7 . Where no appropriate price has been notified for any item of scrap , the Controller møy 
classify such item or items and fix such price as he may consider appropriate . 


8 . The chargeable weight in respect of all kinds of Defectives and Scrap shall be the actual 
scale weight. 


II- A . - Special Conditions for Sales by the Main Producers (Viz ., Messrs Tata Iron 

& Steel Co . Ltd ., Calcutra , Indian Iron & Steel Co, Ltd ., Calcutta and Mysore Iron 
& Steel Works, Bhadravati and by Secondary Registered Producers vix ., Indian Steel 
& Wire Products Ltd ., Indranagar and Tinplate Co. of India Ltd ., Tatanagar ). 


1. (a) Sales and despatches in full wagon loads of Defectives , Scrap etc . other than Melting 
Scrap by the above Main and Sccondary Registered Producers shall be made f .o . r. destination 
1. 6., the base prices shown in Col, I plus the appropriate Place Extra for the destination . 


(b ) Where wagons are not fully loaded the customer shall pay the f. . r. destination rate 
plus the difference betwcen the actual freight per ton and the amount of freight per ton which 
would have been incurred if the wagon had been fully loaded , 


( c) If, where the above Main and Secondary Producers sell a lot f. o .r . destination and the 
materials are sent at the customers request , by a route ormeans of transport, other than the cheap 
est, the extra cost shall be borne by the customer , 


(d ) For deliveries by Rail in smalls sales shall be made f.o .f. despatching station and the 
base rates shall be adjusted by adding the Place Extra for the despatching station . In such cases 
the actual freight shall be borne by the buyer . 


II - B . — Special Conditions for Sales by Registered Producers (other than the Main Pro . 

ducers , Messrs Indian Steel & Wire Products Ltd . & Tinplate Co . of India Ltd , etc 
and Controlled sources (other than controlled Scrap Merchants ). 


1. Sales and despatches by the Registered Producers (other than the Main Producere 
Messrs Indian Steel & Wire Products Ltd . and Tinplate Co . of India Ltd ., etc .) and Controlled 
gources (other then controlled Scrap Merchants ) shall be made f.o . r, Seller s siding or f.o . f . deg 
patching station , as the casemay be, at col. I price plus the place extra for the despatching station . 
Actual freight from the despatching station to the destination station shall also be bome by tho 
consignee . 


690 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


[ PART II — Sec. 8 


IIC . Special Conditions for Sales by the Controlled Scrap Merchants 

I. The rates shown in Col. II above , apply to all sales by Controlled Scrap Merchants and 
are subject to Place Extras as per the Freight (place Extras ) List at APPENDIX I for the place 
where the stockyard of the Controlled Scrap Merchant is situated . 

2 . All sales by Controlled Scrap Merchants are ex . their yards or f.o . r. their siding. No 
extra charges are admissible when delivery is made ex - yard or f.o . r. their siding, or into work 
shops adjoining to the Controlled Scrap Merchants yard . For guch gales, the charges incurred 
for leading defectives or scrap in the wagons or Lorries shall be borne by the Controlled Scrap 
Merchants . Where delivery is undertaken by the Controlled Scrap Merchants at the request of 
the buyer, the delivery charges shall not, except by special arrangements between the Controlled 
Scrap Merchants and the buyer , exceed the following rates per ton : 
Rs. As. Ps. 

Rs. As. Ps. 
Calcutta . . . . . 10 OO Jullunder . . . . 4 
Bombay . . . . . 1000 Nagpur . . . . s 
Madras . . . . . 680 Vizianagram . . . . 300 
Delhi (old & new ) , 

$ 120 Cuttack . . . . 700 
Kanpur , , , , , 8 00 Ambala . 

. . 5 00 
II- D . Special Conditions for Sales by all persons other than Main Producers, Registered Pro 

ducers , (other than Main Producers), Controlled Sources and Controlled Scrap Merch 

ants . 
1 . The base rates given in Col. III above , apply ex - yard and are subject to Place Extra given 
in the Freight (Place Extras ) List at APPENDIX I for the place where the materials are lying . 


APPENDIX I 


FREIGHT ( PLACE EXTRAS ) 


Subject to the provisions of relevant CONDITIONS FOR SALE , the following 
Freight ( Place Extras ) are to be added over the base prices in respect of the 
Items under Schedule II , Schedule IV and Schedule V ( except items 1 to 6 in 
Part III thereof) for the respective rail -head : 


Freight ( Place Extras) List No. 1 of 1956 


Destination 


Destination 


Place Ex 
tra per 
ton 


Place Ex 
tra per 

ton 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Rs, As, Ps . 


60 


60 


Abohar , 
Abu Road , 
Achnera Jn . 
Adirampatnam 
Adoni 
Adra 
Aduturai 
Agarpara 
Agas - 
Aghwanpur 
Agra , 
Ahmadnagar , 
Ahmadpur 
Ahmedabad In . 
Ahmadgarh . 
Ahraura Road 


oo Ajmer Jn . 
120 Ajodhya . 

OO Akaltara . 
25 00 Akbarpur 
31 12 0 Akivedu . 

5 4 0 Akkhihabbalu . 
20 00 Akkur 
500 Akola 
28 12 0 Alambagh 
60 0 0 Aligarh , 
60 00 Alir 
22 12 0 Allahabad 
12 0 Alleppey O . A , . 

Almora 0 . A . 
oo Alnavas 
41 I20 Alwar , 


OOOOOOOADOAAJO 0000000000OOOOOO 


0 


1 


. 


PART II — SEC. 8 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1968 


691 


Destination 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


Place 


Extre 
per ton 


Rs. As. Ps. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 
. 


. 


. 
. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


A contd . 
Alwar Tirungirl 
Alwaye . 
Amalner 
Amalaad . 
Ambala Cantt. & City 
Ambarnath 
Ambaturai 
Ambika Kalna 
Ambur . 
Ambasamudram 
Ambyapur 
Amila , . 
Amla 
Amlori Sarsar . 
Amolwa . 
Amraoti , 
Amreli . . 
Amritsar 
Amroha . 
Anakappalle 
Anakhol . 
Anamalai Road 
Anand Jn , 
Anandnagar 
Anandpur Sahib 
Anantapur 
Anaparti 
Anara . 
Anas , 
Andul , 
Anjangaon 
Anjar 
Anjhi 
Anklesvar Jn . 
Annavaram 
Aonla 
Arantangi 
Arasalu . 
Aravankadu 
Ariyalur , 
Arkonam 
Arne , 
Arrah , 
Arisikere 
Arumuganeri . 
Agafpur . 
Asansol . 
Agarya Jn . 
Atari 
Ateli , 
Attili 


, 


$ 7 


. 


. 


• 
· 


29 
37 


. 


lia 


. 
. 


OOOOOOOOOOOAOOROFOOOOOOOAto00:00-0000OTOROOROOOOOOOOOOOOOO00006 

ооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооо 


. 


. 
. 


Rs, Ag. P , . 
Bachrawn 
Baconganj ( K : 
Badagara 
Badausa 
Badampahar 
Badkulla 
Badnapur 
Badnera Jn . . 
Bagalkot , 
Baghauli 
Baghpat Road . 
Bagnan . 
Bagoola , 
Bagwali . 
Bahadurganj Goods Shed . 
Bahadurgarh . 
Bahjoi . 
Bahraich 
Baidynathdham 
Bairagarh 
Bairagnią . 
Bajuva . 
Balagarh 
Balaghat Ja , 
Balasore 

. 15 
Balharshah 

. 51 
Ballia 
Ballichuk 
Bally 
Balotra . 
Balrampur 
Balugan . 
Balwa , 
Bamania . 
Bamhrauli 
Bamra . 
Bangpura 
Banaras Cantt. 
Banda , . 
Bandel Jn . 
Bandikui Jn . . 
Bandra M , Yard 
Banga . 
Bangarapet . 
Bangalore City 
Bangrod . 
Bankhedi. 
Bankura . . 
Banner : 
Bansabati 
Bansi- Paharpur 
Banswara 0 . A . 
Banta Raghunathgarh 
Baoria Thikria 
Bapatla . . 
Barabani 
Barabanki 
Barabil Siding Ex. of siding 

charge 
Baraduar 
Bara Jamda 

1080 
Barakar , 
Bars 
Baranati 

, 21 :00 


OOOOOOOOOAAAAA004O 0000AAOODATAOAOOOOOOOOOOOOOAALTO006 OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 

050A 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 
. 


. 


. 
. 


. 


. 


Attur 


. 


Aurangabad 


. 


Avadi 


, 


. 


. 


. 


Ayyalur 
Ayyampet 
Azamgarh 
Azhikkal (Velapatnam ) 
Azimgani In . . 


naosu 


. 


. 


15 40 


. 


od 


Babatpur 
Babhnan . 


. 
. 


5 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 


42 
56 


0 
8 


.:: 


g o 


0 
0 


692 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


( PART II — Sec. 3 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Rs. As, PS 


B - contd . 


37 12 


Barang : 


30 8 
49 12 


Barara . 
Baraset . 
Barauni In . 
Bardoli . 
Barcilly . 
Bare adi 
Barh , 
Marhaj Bazar 
Barharwa 
Baripada 
Barka Kana 
Barkhera 
Barkuhi . 
Barmer 
Barnagar 
Barnala . 
Baroda M . Yard 
Barpeta . 
Barrackpore 
Barwadih 
Barwaha . 
Rusti 
Bassein Road 
Basti 
Bacala , 
Batanagar Siding (Nangi) . 
Bath naha 
Hauria 
BeyAds , 


000000000000000000000000OOOOOAWOOOOOOOOOOOAOOOOOOOOOOOOAAORAOOOOOAOOO007A000OEOOA 0000000000 


Bhairangarh , 
Bhalaj 
Bhandara Road 
Bhandup 
Bhankheda . 
Bharatgarh 
Bharatpur Jn . . 
Bharoli . 
Bharthna 
BhawaniMandi 
Bharwari 
Bhatapara 
Bhatinda 
Bhigwan 
Bhilai 
Bhilupur 
Bhilwara 
Bhimadol 
Bhimavaram 
Bhind 
Bhiwani . . 
Bhojuidid 
Bhongir , 
Bhopal , 
Bhoyant , 
Bhubaneswar . 
Bhuj 
Bhurkunda 
Bhusayal 
Bibinagar 
Bihar Sharif 
Blhta 
Bijainagar 
Bijnor 
Bikaner . 
Bilara 
Bilaspur , 
Bilga 
Bilimora . 
Bilochpura 
Bilpur 
Bilthara Road : 
Bindhachal 
Bindki Road 
Birlanagar 
Birinltrapur 
Birnagar 
Birsinghpur 
Bigra 
Biswan . 
Bobbilt In . 
Boinchec 
Bolarum , 
Bolpur , 
Bombay , 

Central 
Byculle 
Carnac Bunder 
Dadar 
Kurla . 
Mahalaxmi 
Mahim 
Matunge . 


..................................................... 


0000COROATOOASSOOOOO000AD000000OOOOOOOOH20300TOONOOOOOOOO 000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000 


OOOOOOOOOOO 


40 


. 


13 


Beawar , 
Bechraji , 
Bcdibander 
Begamabad 
Begusarai 
Behee . 
Relagula . 
Belanganj 
Relapur , 
Belgaum . 
Belghurtlah 
Bellary , . 
Hdpahar 
Berhampur Court 
Berhampur (Ganjam ) 
Demo , 
Bettiah . 
Betul 
Bezwada (Vijayawada) 
Bhaynagar Docks . 
Bhavnagar Termlous 
Bhabua Road , . 
Bhadohi . 
Bhadrachallam Road 
Bhadrak 
Bhadravati , 
Bhadreswar Ghat 


36 


. 


. 
• 


0 
0 
O 
o 
0 
0 


7 


. 47 8 


. 


, 


37 


II 0 
Nil . 


37 12 


........ 


1 . 


t 


Bhaga 


Bhagalpur 
Bhagtanwala 


. 


. 


. 


PART II — SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1958 


693 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 


Destination 


Placc 
Extra 
per top 


per ton 


Rs. A . P 


R . A . P . 


B . -- concld. 
Bombay - concld . 


Parel 


2 
: 
: 
: 
: 


Sion 
T .L . Manganese Depot 
B . P . T , Rly . . 
Wadala 

Wadi Bunder 
Bommidi 
Bonakalu 
Bongaon . 
Borawar 
Bordutti Ghat 
Borivli . 
Broach . 
Brojorajnagar . 
Budaun . 
Budalur . 
Budge Budge . 
Budhlada 
Bukhtiarpur 
Bulandshahr 
Bulsar 
Burdwan 
Burhari 
Burhwal 
Burnipore 
Butari 
Buxar . 
Byadgi , 


. 


7 


60 


Cannanore 
Captaingan ) . 

Castle Rock . 
Nil Chaibasa 

Chainpur 
Chakarpur 
Chakardharport 
Chakdaha 

Chakeri . 
1980 Chakla . 
32 00 

Chakulia 
Chalakudi 

Chalisgaon 
60 00 Chamarajanagar 

Chamba 0 . A . . 
Champa . 
Champion 

Chanasma . 
24 8 0 Chanda , 
5 00 

Chanda Fort 
60 00 

Chandausi 
1940 

Chandernagorc . 

Chandia Road . 
14 40 Chandigarh 
8 12 0 

Chandil , 
SI 4 O 

Chandni , 
57 12 0 Chandpara 

Chandpur Siau 
60 00 

Chandragiri : 
39 12 0 Chandrakona Road 
44 40 

Charbagh (Lucknow ) 
Charbaia 
Chatra . 
Chebrol , . 
Chhcharta 
Chheoki , 
Chhindwara , 
Chhota Udaipur 
Chhuchhapura 
Chickmagalur O . A , 
Chidambaram 
Chikhli Road 
Chikodi Road . 
Chinch vad 
Chingighar Siding 
Chinglipet Ja , 
Chinna Salem 
Chimpai . 
Chintamani 
Chipurupalle 
Chirala 
Chirawa . 
Chirmiri . 
Chiltaldroog . 
Chitorgarh , 
Chittaranjan 
Chittaranjan Workshop Siding : 
Chittoor 
Chemu Samod 
Choranda 
Chunar 

Chupra 
40 40 Churk , 
31 4 0 Churu . 


DOBAOROHONADORDO30DAOOOOOOOOOHOOROAOOOORAWOONDOANOI 

OOGOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOD0 


Calcutta 


Armenian Ghat 
Ballygunge , 
Bellaghata . 
Belur . 
Charakdanga 
Chitpur 
Cossipore . 
Dum Dum Cantt. 
Garden Reach 
Howrah 
Juggernath Ghat 
K . P . Docks 
Kadamtale 
Kalighet 
Kulpighat( sahib Bazar ) 
Lillooah 
Meerbaharghat 
Narkeldanga 
Neemtala Ghet . . 
Ramkristapore 
Ruthtola Nundy Bari Ghat) 
Sealdah . 
Shalimar 
Strand Ware House 
Sulkia 

Ultadaoga 
Calicuti 
Cambey 


5 


T 


694 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1966 


[PART II — SEC. 3 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


per ton 


Rs. A . P . 


Rs. A , P . 


C . - contd . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Closcpet (Ramnagaram ) . 
Clutterbuckganj . 
Cocanada (Port & Town ) , 
Cochin Harbour Terminus 
Cochin O . A . 
Coimbatore 
Colcroon 
Colgong . 
Conjecveram . 
Contai Road 
Cooch Behar 
Coondapur 
Coonoor , 
Cooperganj (Kanpur ) 
Coromandel 
Cossimbazar 
Cuddalore Jn . 

. 
Cuddalorc New Town 
Cuddapah 
Cumbum 
Cuttack , 


OSACOSADOONAAOOOOHOO 

OOOOOOOOOOOOO 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


· 


. 


· 


OOO 


. 


· 


. 


· 


. 


· 


. 


· 


. 


· 


. 


· 


. 


· 


. 


. 


· 


Delhi 
Delhi Kishanganj 

. % 60 
, 26 8 0 Delhi Shahdare 

60 00 Delhi Safdarlung 
3900 Denduluri 

, 31 12 0 
Deoband 

60 00 
Deoria Sadar . 

8 0 
Detroj , 
Deusana 
Devakottai 0 . A , 
Devgad Barla . 
Devlali . 

Dhampur 
60 00 Dhamtari 
44 8 0 Dhanbad 

o Dheng 

Dhanushkodi 

Dharampur Punjab 
. 14 8 0 

Dharamsala Kotwali Bazar O . A 

Dhariwal 
17 12 0 Dharmaj 
37 0 0 

Dharmavarem . 
, 26 8 0 

Dharwar 
Dhatrigram 
Dhilwan 
Dhiro , 
Dhoki 
Dholka , 
Dholpur . 
Dhora . 
Dhrangadra 
Dhubri , 

Dhubulia 
29 12 0 

Dhulia 
Dhulian Ganges 
Dhulkot . 
Dhuri , 

Diamond Harbour 
60 00 

Dibai 
24 12 0 

Dibrugarh 
Dibrugarh Ghat 
Didwana 
Digboi . 
Digha Ghat 
Dighwara 
Dildarnagar 
Dinapore 
Dindigal . 
Dinnagar 
Dohad . 

Dohna . 
60 00 

Dongargarh 
Dondaiche 
Dorah 
Dornakal 
Dornachellam Ja . 
Drug . 
Dubrajpur 
Duggirala 
Dumraon 


..................... 


. 


· 


. 


· 


. 


OBAOKORAOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOAAAACOOR 0000000000OOOOOOOOOOO000000000000000000000000000000OOOOO 


· 


. 


· 


. 


· 


. 


· 


34 4 


. 


· 


. 


· 


. 


· 


. 


· 


· 


. 


· 


. 


· 


Dabra 
Dabhoi , 
Dadri . 
Dahej . 
Dolnhat , 
Dakor , 
Dalauda . 
Dalmia Dadri . 
Dalmianagar Siding 
Dalmlapuram . 
Dalpatpur 
Dalsingh Sarai 
Daltonganj 
Damodar In . . 
Danca . . 
Dankąur , 
Dankuni . 
Darah . 
Darbhanga 
Darjeeling 
Daryabad 
Daryapur Jn . 
Dasampatti 
Dasuya . 
Datia , 
Davangere 
Dawram Madhepura 
Deesa 
Degana . 
Dehra Dun 
Dehri City 
Dehrl - on - Sone 
Dehu Road 


. 


· 


ONDOOOOOADOOSOAOOOOOOOSAOSAOO OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


. 


· 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 


. 


. 


. 


50 


. 


. 


, 


26 


. 


. 


PART II — $ .c . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


695 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


D - contd . 


Rs. A . P. 


Rs. A. P. 
, 6 80 

36 12 0 


. 


Durgapur 
Dwarapudi 


. 
. 


Ekdil . . 
Elamanur 
Elore (Eluru ) . 
Erandol Road . 
Erinpura Road 
Ernakulam Goods 
Erode , 


. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 


......: 


29 


0OOOOO OOOOOOO 


25 


. 


. 
. 
. 
. 


. 


Gidni . . 
Giridih . 
Goalpara 
Gobardanga 
Gobindgarh 
Godhra . 
Goilkera 
Gokak Road 
Golagokaran Nath 
Golden Rock . 
Gomia . . 
Gomoh . 
Gondal . 
Gondia . 
Gooty , 
Gorakhpur 
Goraya , 
Goribidnur 
Gorumahisani . 
Goshaingani . 
Govindnagar . 
Gubbi . 
Gudivada 
Gudiyattam 
Gudlavalleru 
Gudur , . 
Gulbarga 
Guledgud Road 
Guna , 
Guntakal 
Guntur 
Gunupur 
Gurdaspur 
Gurgaon 
Gurup . 
Guskara . 
Gwalior , 


Falna : 
Faridabad 
Faridkot . 
Farukhabad . 
Farukhnagar , , 
Fatehgarh 
Fatehpur 
Fazalganj Goods Depot (Ex. 

Siding Charge ) , 
Fazilka . . . . 
Ferok , 
Ferozepur Cantt , and City 
Firozabad 
Fort Gloster . 
Fulla 
Fyzabad 


..................................... 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOAOA00A-000B 0000000000000000000000000000000000000 


. 


000OOOOOOOOO 000000000000000 


. 


Gadag . . 
Gadwal . . 
Gajroula Jn , 
Gandhidham . 
Gandhinagar . 
Gancshgan ) 
Gangapur City 
Ganjam , 
Gannavaram . 
Garbeta . 
Garh Dhenkanal 
Garmukhtesar . 
Garhshankar . 
Garhwa Road 
Garividi . 
Gauhati , 


0000000000000 


Habra , 
Hagari . 
Hagaribommanahalli 
Haibargaon 
Hajipuг . 
Haldibari 
Haldwand 
Hallghahr 
Halol . 
Hamira , 
Hamirpur Road 
Hangi : 
Hanumangarh 
Hapur 
Hardoi 
Hardua . 
Hargaon . 
Harduaganj 
Hardwar 
Haridaspur 


Gaya 


0000000000000 


.................... 


................ 


0000000000OOOAA OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


Ghaggar 
Ghanauli 
Ghataprabha 
Ghatkopar 
Ghatsila . 
Ghaziabad 
Ghazipur City , 
Ghorpuri 
Gholeshapur . 


5 


0 


60 
46 


o 
4 


, 


13 


8 


. . . . 12, . vui 


L5 


IIm 


- 3 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


Destination 


Place 

Extra 
per ton 


H - contd . 


Rs, 


P . 


Rs, A . P . 
• SI OO 

49 12 
60 00 


Harihar , 
Harinagar 
Harnhalli 
Harpalpur 
Hasan : 
Hasimára 
Hathras In . 
Hathras Kilah 
Hathua 
Hatkanạngale , 
Hour 
Haveri . 
Hazarat Nizamuddin 
Hazaribagh Road 
Hetampur 
Himgir . 
Himmatnagar , 
Hindaun City . 
Hindumalkot . 
Hindupur Jn . . 
HingoG (Deccan ) 
Hirdagarh 
Hissar 
Holalkere 
Hole Alur 
Hooghly 
Hoshangabad 
Hoshiarpur 
Hospet 
Hotgi . . 
Hubli 
Humma . 
Hussainiwala . 
Hyderabad (Deccan ) 


OUOOONOOAOOOA000OROAOO? 


... 


OOOOOOOOOOOOO000000000000000 
OOOOOO 


000OAOAOA 


Jals 
Jaithari 
Jaitu 
JaitwÅTA 
Jajpur Keonjhar Rd, 
Jakkalacheruvu 
Jakpur 
Jalarpet 
Jaleswar 
Jalgaon 
faina 
Jalor 
Jalpaiguri 
Jamalpur 
Jamga , 
Jamkhandi o . 
Jamnagar 
Jamooce , 
Jantara . 
Jamuniatand 
Jamuria , 
Janghai Jn . 
Jangipur Road . 
Јарга 
Japla 
Taraikela , 
Jargaon , 
Jaswantnagar 
Jaunpur Jn . 
Jawalamukhi Road 
Jawalapur 
Jayasingpur 
Jchanabad 
Jetpur 
Jeur 
Thagadia . 
Jhajha , 
Jhalana (Gandhinagar ) 
Jhalawar Road 
Jhansi 
Thantipahari 
Jhargram , 
Jharia 
Sharradth , 
Jharsuguda 
Thinjhak , 
Jhinkpani , 
Jhunjhunu 
Jiaganj 
Jodhpur , 
Jorhat Town 
Jubbulpore 
Juhl (Kanpur) 
Tukehi . 
Jullundur 
Tullundur Cantt . S 
Junagadh . . . 
Jutogh , 


OROAAOAOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOACOAAAADORAAORO 


AOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


, 


46 


32 12 


. 


600 
54 12 
127 
42 8 


Ichapur . 
Ichchapuram (Ganjam ) 
Idar 
Idgah (Agra ) 
Iklehra . 
Imphal O . A , . 
Indore 
Indrabil , 
Indupallo 
Ingur . 
Iqbalpur 
Itarsi 
Itwari (Nagpur ) 
Izatnagar 


000000000 


· 


OOOOOO 


. 600 


Oo 


Jadcharla 
Jagadhri 
Jagannadhapuran 
Jagraon , 
Talpur S . & W . 


OOOOA 


0 


. 


. 


Kacheguda 
Kadakayur 
Kadambur 


46 12 
46 12 
37 4 


O 
0 


, 


. 


. 60 o 0 


. 


: 


II - Sp¢. 3 )- 


, 


GA 


OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1960 


697 


Destination 


Destination 


Place Extra 

per ton 


Place Extra 

per ton 


Rs. A . P . 


Rs. 8 , P . 


. 


. 


: 


K - contd . 
Kaday anallur , 
Kadiam , 
Kadiri , 
Kadur 
Kaikalur , 
Kalpadar Road , 
Kaithal 
Kala Ak har 
Kalahasti 
Kalai Kundah 
Kalasapakka 
Kalikiti 
Kalipahari. 
Kaliyaganj , 
Kalka , 
Kallayi 
Kallidaikurichi . 
Kalol 
Kalyan . 
Kalyani . 
Kamaredi . 
Kamarhatty Siding 
Kampookoth 
Kamptce , 
Kancharapara . 
Kandaghat 
Kandhla 
Kandiylec (same as Boriyli) 
Kandla 
Kandla Bunder , 
Kandra 
Kanhan 
Kanhangad 
Kankarla 
Kankinara 
Kanpur Central (Goods Shed & 

Kanpur Juhl) 
Kantabanji 
Kanth 
Kapadvanj 
Kapasin . 
Kapren . 
Kapurthala 
Karad 
Karaikkal , 
Karaikkudi 
Karamsad 
Karari 
Karengi 
Karlavalamandallur 
Karkely . 
Karkend , 
Karkheli . 
Karmadi 
Karnal , 
Karur . 
Kartarpur 
Karwandia 
Kasamgod , 
Kasbe Sukene 
Kasganj city 
Kashi . 


Kashipur , 

. 60 
Katahri . 
Katakhal . 
Kateri Road 

Kathgodam 
32 8 0 Kathlali 

Kaththar : 
60 0 0 Katni Marwara . 
45 120 Katol 

Katosan Road 
Katpadi 
Katrasgarh 
Katwa . 
Kauli 
Kavali 
Kazipet 
Kelod . 
Kcolaree : 
Kesarpura . 
Keshod . 
Kesinga 
Khachraud 
Khaga , 
Khagaria , 
Khairthal . 
Khalarih . 

Khamaria Sub Depot Disding Ex . 
O of siding charge) 

Khamgaon 
Khammamcth 
Khana Jn . 
Khanapur . 

Khandwa , 
o Khana 

Khanyan . 
0 Khaperkheda 

Kharaghoda 
Khardaha 
Khardi . . 
Khargpur . 
Khariar Road 
Kharida Siding . 
Khari Rohar Road 
Kharkhauda . 
Kharsalia 
Kharsia , 
Khatema . 

Khedbrahma 

O Kherli 
60 O Khirsadoh Jn . 

Khori 
Khurda Road 

Khurdpur 
40 12 0 Khurja City 
26 8 0 

Khurja Jn . 
60 00 Kilakadaiyam 

o Kille 

Kiratpur Sahib 

Kirkee , 
490 Kirloskarvadi 

O O Kishanganj 

O 0 Kishangarh 
41 12 0 Kistna Canal , 


000000000000000000000KOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOAADORORADOVAOADOADOAOA0000000OOOOOOOAOA 

ооооооооооо 


............. 


000OAOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOAAOOOOATOAOOOOAADOAOOOOOARTOOAADOORU 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO000000000000000000OOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


OOOO 


• 33 


698 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1956 


[PART II—- SEC. 3. 


Destination 


Place Extra 

per ton 


Destination 


Place Extra 

per ton 


Rs, A . P . 


Rs. A . P . 
16 0 0 


.. 


. 


. 


Kolar 


.. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


OOROOOOOPADOOOO 00000000000000000000000OODATOOR 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


.. 


.. 


. 


OOOOOOOOOOSOMOOROAOOODOORZ5000OORARCOAOOOO00ORADAAOCAOCCAA 

000000000000 


. 


24 4 


K - contd . 

Lalgola Ghat . . . . 

Lalitpur . 
Kivalur 

4 0 

Lallaguda Siding Ex . of Siding 
Kodelkanal Road . 

4 0 Charges 
Koduru 

8 0 Lallgarh . 
Kolaghat Gooda Siding 

8 0 

Lankalakoderu . 

Lapanga . 
Kolhapur 

Lasalgaon 
Kollur Road 

Latchar 
Kondapuram 

Latur 
Konnagar . 

Layabad . 
Kopargaon 

Limbodra 
Koraput Dist . 

Linch . 
Koregaon . 

Lodhikhera 
Kosamba 

Lodra 
Ковi Kalen 

Lohardaga 
Kotah 

Lonand . 
Kotdwara . 

Londa Jn , 
Kothgangad 

Lower Halflong 
Kotma 

Luckecserai Jn . 
Kottarakara 

Lucknow . 
Kottavalasa 

Ludhiana . 
Kottur . 

Lumding , 
Kovilpatti 

Lunavada , 
Kovvur 
Krishnagar City 
Krishnarajanagar 
Krishnarajapuram 

Machada , 
Kuberpur . 

Macherla . 
Kuchman Road . 

Madanapalle Road 
Kudatini 

Madanapalle Town O 
Kudchi 

Madan Mahal . 
Kudra 

Maddikera 
Kuldha . 

Madhavnagar 
Kulhuria . 

Madhi 

Madhubani 
Kumarbandh Halt Siding . - 

Madhupur Jn . , 
Kumardhubi 

Madrag : 
Kumbakonam . 

Beach · 
Kumbla , 

Egmore . 
Kulitalai . 

Perambur , 
Kunch . 

Rayapuram 
Kund 

Salt Cotauro 
Kunwari 

51 4 0 Madukaral 
Kuppam 

17 00 Madura . 
Kurduwadi 

24 8 0 Madurantakam 
Kurnool Town , 

35 12 0 Magra Jn . 
Kurscong 

, 6000 Mahadangpuram 
Kurukshetra 

. 60 00 Maharajganj 
Kurumbur 

41 I2 O Mahbubnagar . 
Kusunda Jn. 

8 8 0 Maharajpur 
Kuttalam 

. . 19 12 0 Mahasamund , 
Kymore Siding Ex . of Siding charge 59 4 0 Mahesh Khunt . 

Mahesh Munda 
Maholi . 
Mahudha . 
Mahuva : 
Maigalgan ) 

Maihar . 
Lakheri 

. . . . 56 8 0 Mainpuri . 
Lagargawan 

Maitha 
Laheria Sarai 

28 4 0 Makhakhad 
Lakhimpur Kheri 

60 0 0 Makhu . 
Lakhtar 

, 37 8 Makkajipalli 
Lalganj . 

. 53 4 0 Maksi . . 


. 


OOOOOOOOOO 


0 


R 


4 


11 


Kulti 


. 


. 


OOOOOOOOOO 


. 


31 12 


. 


0000000000000000000000 


IZ 


O 


- 


- - - 


PART II — SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1968 


699 


Destination 


Place extra 
per ton . 


Destination 


Place extra 
per ton , 


Rs. A . P . 


. 


40 


OOOOOO 


OOO 


O 


O 


Rs. A , P . 
M .- - contd . 

Mewa Nawada . 
Mal Jn , . 

12 0 Mhew , . 
Malda Court 

Midnapore 
Mallanwalakhas 

Minambakkam , 
Malgar , 

oo Miraj , 
Malerkotla 

0 0 

Mirzapalli 
Mallapur . 

Mirzapur 
Manamadura 

4 0 

Misamari , 
Manaparai 

8 0 Mithapur 
Mansherial 

Miyagam 
Mandapam 

Mobha Road 
Mandavalli 

o Modinagar 
Mandawar Mahuwa Rd . 

Moga Tahsil 
Mandi Dabwali 

Moghalsarai . 
Mandi Govindgarh 

Mohanlalganj . 
Mandla Fort . 

60 00 Mokameh Ghat 
Mandsaur 

Mokameh Jn . . 
Mandva 

Mollagavalli . 
Mandya : 

Molisar , 
Manendragarh 

Mollarpur 
Mangalore 

Mohammadabad Bider 
Mangalgiri 

Mohol 
Mangalpadi 

Mohuda . 
Manganallur 

Monghyr . 
Manaharpur 

Moradabad 
Manipur Road . 

60 00 Morak , 
Maniyachi. 

37 12 0 Morappur . 
Manjeshwar 

50 4 0 Morar Road ( Bilanagar) 
Manmad . 

Morinda . . 
Mannargudi 

23 12 0 Morvi 
Manoharabad . 

Motibagh (Nagpur) 
Mansa , 

Motihari 
Mantapampalle . 

Motipur . 
Manwath Road 

Mugma . 
Marikuppam . 

Muhiuddinpur . 
Marlyamannahalli 

Mukerian . 
Markapur Road 

Mukhtiara Balwada 
Maroll 

Muktapur 
Marudur . 

Muktsar . 
Marwarpalli 

Muli Road 
Masaipet . 

Mulmaroda 
Masulipatam 

Munirabad 
Mathura . 

Muradnagar 
Matmari . 

Muri Jn , 
Maula Ali. 

Murukkampuzha 
Mau Ranipur 

Mustabada 
Mavli . 

Muzaffarnagar 
Mayanoor 

Muzaffarpur 
Mayavaram 

Mysore . 
Mc Donalds Choultry 
Mc. Cluskicganj 

N 
Meerut City 

60 00 
Meghnagar . 

Nabadwipdham 
Mahidpur Road 

Nabha 
Mehsana Jn , . 

Nadiad . . 
Mehsi 

Nagaur 
Meja Road 

Nagbhir Jn , 
Memari . 

Nagda 
Meramandeli 

Nagina 
Merta City 

Nagpur ( Itwari) 
Merta Road 

Ngrakata 
Mettuguda Siding (Ex. of Siding 

Nagrota , 
charge) , 

46 0 0 Nahur Şiding (Bx . of Siding 
Mettupalayam 

33 0 0 Charges, 
Meturdam . . . . 24 8 0 Naibali Ja , 


OOOO00600000 AODOOOOOOKADOADODACORDOBAAAOOO 0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000O+OCO20000 


000000000000 


00000000 


un8AOSO 


ooOOOOOOOOOO 


oo 


OUC 


700 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1966 


[ PART II - SEC. 3 


Destination 


Place extra 

per ton 


Destination 


Place extro 
per ton 


- 


- 


Rs. A , P . 


Rs. A . P . 


N - contd . 


47 00 


49 12 0 
59 120 


Obcdullaganj , 
Ohlapuram 
Okha 
Ollur 
Omalur . . 
Ondagram 
Ondal 
Ongole . 
Ottappalam 
Oyaria 


........ 


, 
, 


57 4 
37 12 
22 I2 
14 12 


OOOOOOOOOO 


20 00 


, 


II 12 


ROTA 


DOOOO 


31 8 0 
60 00 


42 4 


Naila 
Naimisharanya 
Naini In . 
Nainital 0 . A . 
Najibabad 
Nakodar Jn . 
Naksalbari 
Nalhati In . 
Nalpur 
Nalvar , 
Namli . 
Nancherla 
Nander . 
Nandol Dehgam 
Nandurbar 
Nandyal , 
Nangal Dam . 
Nanjangud Town 
Nannilam 
Naraina . 
Naranpura 
Naragaravupet 
Narayanpeth Road . 
Nardana . 
Narnaul . 
Narbapatnam Road , 
Narasapur 
Narsingpur 
Narwana , 
Nasik Road 
Nasirabad 
Nathnagar . 
Naupada . 
Nautanwa 
Navgadh . 
Navapur . 
Navlakhi . 
Navsari , 
Nawadah . 
Nawai Banasthali 
Nawashahr-Doaba 
Neemuch 
Nazira . . 
Negapatam 
Nekonda . 
Nellikuppam 
Nellimarla , 
Nellore . 
Neyveli . 
Nibkarori 
Nidadavolu 
Nidubrolu . 
Nileshwar 
Nilokhed 
Nimdih 
Nophad 
Nire 
Nizamabad 
Nuzvid . 


OOOOOOOOOOOOSS.OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


0000000000000000000 


Pachora . 
Padugupadu 
Paharpur 
Pakala 
Pakur 
Palakol , 
Palamcottah 
Palana 
Palanpur Jn , 
Palasa 
Palayangadi 
Palghar . 
Palghat 
Palia 
Palitana . 
Palni 
Palwal , 
Panagar 
Panchkura 
Panchra . 
Pandavapura 
Pandaveswar 
Pandaul 
Pandharpur 
Pandooah 
Pandu . 
Panipat . 
Papruti . 
Penyam . 
Papanasam 
Pappinisseri 
Parantij . 
Parbhani 
Pardi 
Pariawan 
Parlakalmedi 
Parli 
Parvatipuram 
Pasumalai 
Pasur . 
Patalpani 
Pathankot 
Patharia 
Pathri . 
Patjala 
Patna City 
Patna Ghar 
Patna Jn . 
Patranga 


ORAROBODABODOAODOADOCOA 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


OOOOO 


o 


00000000000 


OCOAOOOO 


PART II — SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1960 


701 


Destination 


Place Extra 

per ton 


Destination 


Place Extra 

per ton 


Rs. A . P . 


Rs. A . P . 


0 


Quilon Jn . 


, 


. 


. 


. 45 0 0 


29 


APOOR 000000 


. 


. 


15 


DOO 


Luz 


TO 


29 I 
20 


27 


++++ON 


46 


31 8 
60 0 


0 
0 


P . - conrd . 
Pattambi 
Pattukkottai 
Pavarchutran . 
Payagpur 
Payyanur 
Padapalli 
Peepardahçe 
Pendurti 
Pennadam 
Penukonda 
Peralam 
Peravurni 
Perundurai 
Petlad 
Pettai 
Phagwara 
Phaphamau 
Phaphund 
Phillaur . 
Phulera Jn . 
Phulpur . 
Phulwari Sharif 
Phuaro . 
Plardoba 
Pidugurala 
Pilamedu 
Pilibhit 
Pilkhuwa 
Pongora . 
Pipariya 
Piper Road 
Piplod . 
Pithapuram 
Plasgey . 
Podanur Jo . 
Pokaram 
Pollachi , 
Polur . 
Pondicherry 
Ponneri . 
Poodoor , 
Poona . 
Porbundar 
Portonovo 
Pradhankhanta 
Pratapgarh Jn . 
Prayag . . 
Puadukkottai 
Pugalur 
Pulgaon , 
Pulicherla 
Pullanbadi 
Punalur . 
Purbasthali 
Puri 
Purli Vaijnath 
Purna 
Purnca In , 


+ONOOOOOO++ 


O 


U 


Radhanagar . 
Radhanpur 
Raebareili Jn . 
Rafiganj 
Ragaul , 
Rahuri , 
Raibag . 
Raigarh , 
Raika Bag Palace 
Raipur Jn . 
Rairangpur 
Rajahmundry 
Rajaka Şahaspur 
Rajapalaiyam 
Raj Athgarh 
Rajbandh 
Ralgan 
Rajgangpur 
Rajgarh . 
Rajghat Narora 
Rajkot In 
Raj Nandgaon 
Rajpipla 
Rajpura 
Rakha Mines 
Reman 
Ramavarappadu 
Rambhai 
Ramganj Mandi 
Ramgarh Town 
Ramgundum 
Ramnad . 
Ramnagar 
Ramnagaram 
Rampur Haut 
Rampur , 
Rampura Phul 
Ranaghat Jo . 
Ranchi . 
Ranchi Road 
Rani 
Ranibennur 
Raniganj 
Ranipet 
Rasulpur 
Ratangarh 
Ratlam . 
Ray , 
Raya , 
Rayadrug 
Rayaghada 
Rayalcheruvu 
Razampeta 
Rechni Road 
Roengus 
Reidganj 
Reacwal 


000000000000000000ATOAOODAOOOOOOOOOOPOOOOOOOOOCAORTA 

OOOOOOO000 
00000000000000OOROA 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO0000000000000000000000000 


o 


II 12 

12 12 
, 47 


++OOONOORN**TOOOOONO 


47 12 0 


43 


8 


IS 


4 


31 12 


Purulia 


Puttur 
24 vao ur 


TORO 


O 


702 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1966 


[PART II — Sec . 8 


Destination 


Place Extra 

per ton 


Destination 


Place Extra 
per ton 


Rs. A . P . 


Rs. A . P . 


9 12 


R contd . 
Renigunta 
Repalle . 
Rewa , 
Rewari Jn . 
Rishikesh 
Rishra . 
Robertegunj 
Rohanakalan 
Rohtak 
Roorkee 
Rosa Jn . 
Rourkela 
Rukni . 
Rupar : 
Rupaund 
Rupnarainpur , 
Rupra Road . 
Rura 
Ruseraghat . 


.................. 


ARTD00000000+0000 0000000000000000000 


ܛܘܟܘܘܘܘܛܘܤܘܣܘܛܤܘܣܤܘܘ 


II 12 


...... 


. 


35 40 


Sabarmati Jn , , 
Şabour . 
Sadulpur 
Safdarganj 
Sagara 
Saharanpur Jn . 
Saharsa , 
Sahdol . . 
Sahibgungo . 
Şahjanwa 
Saidapet 
Sailakhurd 
Şainthia . 
Şakaldiha 
Sakhigopal . 
Saikhoa Ghat 
Sakhoti Tanda 
Sakhun . 
Sakri 
Sakrigalighat . 
Sakti 
Saktigarh 
Salboni . . 
Salem Jn . 
Salem Market 
Sallamangalam 


NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOONO 
O 
+ 
+ 
0 00000000000000000000000000000 


S . - -contd . 
Sanawad . . . 
Sandila 
Sangançr Town 
Sangat , 
Sangli : 
Sangrana Sahib 
Sangrur . 
Sankaranyinar Kovil 
Sankarldrug 
Sankrail 
Sant Road . 
Santaldih 
Santipur 
Santragachi Jn . 
Saoner 
Sardarnagar 
Sardarshahr 
Sareri . 
Sarmatand 
Sarna : 
Sarupathar 
Sagaram . 
Satara Road 
Satna 
Sattanapalle 
Satur 
Saugor 
Savalyapuram . 
Savan 
Savarkundla 
Sawai Madhopur 
Sayan 
Scob Siding , 
Secunderabad 
Secunderabad Mint Siding 

(Ex . of siding charge) . 
Sehore . 
Sendurai 
Scohara , 
Seoni , 
Serampore 
Sermadevi 
Sevalia . 
Shahabad 
Shahganj 
Shahgarh 
Shahjahanpur . 
Shakarnagar 
Shakurbasti 
Shamgarh 
Shamli . . 
Shamnagar . 
Shapur 
Shedbal , . 
Sheikhpura . 
Shercottah , 
Sheopurkalan , 
Sheoraphuli 
Shikara , 
Shikohabad . 
Shillong 0 . A . 
Shimoga Town 


ܣܤܗܩܬܩܗܞܩܣܣܘ ܘܘܛܘܘܤܗܩܗܤܘܘܘܘܣܘܛ 


000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000 


Salouna 


Samalkot 
Samayanallur 
Sambal Hatim Sarai 
Sambalpur 
Samastipur . 
Sambhar Lake 
Samalya . 
Şamnapur 
Sanahwal 
Sanapiratti 
Sanatnagar 


OOOOOOO 


ܗܩܘܛܘܘܘܘ 


4 0 
120 


PART II — SEC . 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1968 


703 


Destination 


Place Extra 

per ton . 


Destination 


Place Extra 

per ton 


Rs. A . P . 


Rs. A . P . 


S .-- contd . 


, 


35 12 0 
60 00 
53 12 0 


OooOOOOAOCAOTODACOPADOO 


SHvilliputtur . 
Subzi Mandi 
Sukli 
Sultangunge 
Sultanpur 
Sulur 
Sunum , 
Supaul 
Surajpur 
Surat , 
Surendranager 
Suri 


49 12 0 
30 00 
60 00 

40 00 
• 60 00 
• 18 4 0 
, 3900 
, 94 


000000000000000 


O 


#O 


30 12 


OOO 


OOO 


Shirud . 
Shiupur . 
Shivpuri . 
Shiyall . 
Shohratgarh 
Sholapur 
Sholavandan 
Sholinghur 
Shoranur In . 
Shri Amirgadh 
Shujaulput 
Sibsagar Town 
Sijua 
Sikkil 
Silaiman . 
Silchar . 
Simbheoli 
Siliguri . 
Şimhachallam . 
Simla , 
Simri Bakhtyarpur 
Sindhkheda 
Sindri Assisted Siding 
Singanallur Goods . 
Singareni Collieries , 
Singapore Road 
Şingarayakonda 
Sini Jn , 
Singur 
Sirathu 
Sirhind , . 
Sirohi Road . 
Sirpur Kaghaznagar . 
Sirsa : 
Sirsimakhdumpur 
Sitamarhi 
Sitapur ( Thomsong 
Sitarampur 
Sivaganga 
Sivakasi . 
Sodepore . 
Soh 
Sohwal . 
Solan 
Somanur 
Sompeta . 
Sonamukhi 
Sonarpur 
Sonder 
Sonegaon 
Sonepat . 
Soncpore 
Sonnagar 
Sorath Vanthil 
Soro 
Sri Ganganagar 
Srikakulam Rond 
SriMadhopur 
Srinivasapura 
Srirangam 
Srivalkuntam , 


........ 


Tadali 
Tadepalli 
Tadepallegudem 
Tadpatri 
Takia 
Talaiyluthu 
Talbahat 
Talcher . 
Talguppa 
Talod 
Talwandi 
Tanda Urmar 
Tandur 
Tanguturu 
Tanjore Jn . 
Tanuku . 
Tanur 
Tapa 
Tapri . 
Tarakeswar , 
Tarana Road . 
Taraori . 
Tari Ghat 
Tarikere 
Tarntaran 
Tatanagar 
Tatigilwal 
Teghra . 
Tekkali 
Telgi . 
Telicherry 
Tenali Jn . 
Teni . 
Tetulmari 
Tezpur Ghat 
Thana . 
Tharga , 
Thagra 
Thawe . 
Tilda 
Tildanga . 


OAOAORODOSTOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 

000000000000000000000000000000000 


OOOOOA0030OORAOOOOO 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


35 


42 


..............::.:.: 


OOOOO 


41 0 


0 


. : 2000 


704 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1966 


[PART II — Sec. 3 


Destination 


Place Extra 
per ton . 


Destination 


Place Extra 

per ton 


Rs. A . P. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


.. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


OOOBARATOOBAAOADOAOOOOO 000000000000000000000000 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


.. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


T - contd . 
Tilhar . . 
Timmanacherla 
Tinsukia 
Tinnevelly In . 
Tiptur 
Tirora , . 
Tirumangalam 
Tirumayam 
Tiruparankundram 
Tirupati East 
Tirupattur 
Tiruppur 
Tirur . 
Tiruturaipundi 
Tiruvadamarudur 
Tiruvalam 
Tiruvannamalai 
Tiruvarur 
Tiruvennainallur Road 
Tindivanam 
* Titilagarh 
Tittaghur 
Tebana : 
Topsi . 
Tranquebar 
Trichinopoly Goods 

. 
Trichur . 
Trikarpur 
Trivandrum Central 
Triveliore 
Trembay (Kurla Trombay Block 

Station ) . 
Tuggati , 
“ Tumkur . . 
Tummalacheruvu 
Tumsar Road 
Tumsar Town 
“ Tundla Jn . 
Tungabhadra Dam , 
Tuni 
" Tuticorin 

" U " 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


.. 


. 


. 


. 


Vaithigvarankoil 
Vanjipalaiyam 
Vanyambadi . 
Vapi , 
Yasad Jn . 
Vayalpad 
Velapatnam 
Veldurti . 
Vellanur 
Vellore Cantt. . 
Venkatagiri 
Veraval Docks . 
Verka 
Vetapalemu 
Vijapur . . 
Vikhroli 
Vikravandi 
Vikramgod Alot 
Villupuram n , 
Vinukonda 
Viramgam Jo . 
Vikarabad 
Virarakkiyam 
Virayannallur 
Viravagarana . 
Virkudi 
Virudhunagar . 
Vishnupur 
Vizagapatam Port 
Vizagapatam Town 
Vizianagram 
Vontimitta 
Vrinddachalam 
Vyara . 


. 


OOOAAOOOOOA#000DA OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


6 


. 


. 


. 


. 


- 


6 


6 


. 


. 


. 


. 


OOSOWOHOBA 000000000000 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


......... 


. 


53 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


39 12 


0 


. 


. 


36 4 0 
55 80 
43 8 0 


33 00 
44 12 0 

12 0 
Oo 
oo 


Udaigarh 
Udaipur 
Udgir 
Udipi 
Udumalpet 
Ujjain . 
Ukhra 
Uluberla 
Ulundurpet 
Umaria . 
Umbergoan Road 
Umrer , 
Umreth , 
Unao , 
Unchehra 
Undi . 
Unjalur . 
Unjha . 
Utran 
Uttukuli . 


Walajah Road . 
Waltair . 
Wanapard Road 
Wangapali 
Wankner Ja , 
Wansjalia 
Warangal 
Wara Sconi 
Wardha Ja . 
Warora 
Warga : 
Warsaliaganj 
Wellington 
West HA11 
White Field 


DOOO 
OOO004 
OOOOOOO 
000O 


OOOOOOOOOOOA 
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


56 


37 00 


27 12 


0 


PART II- $ 


3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1958 


795 


Destination 


Place Extra 

per ton 


Destination 


Place Extre 

per ton 


Rs. A . P . 
Yeotmal 

44 40 
Y Yeraguntla . 

- 20 40 
A . P . Yermaras 

36 12 0 
Yamuna Bridge (Agra ) . 600 Yesvantpur . . . . 24 4 0 
Yedapallc 

43 8 0 
Yadgur . . 

38 8 0 
Yedại . 

30 12 0 
Yellamanchilli 

43 4 0 Zafarabad Jo . . , . 44 0 

APPENDIX II 
FREIGHT (PLACE EXTRAS ) (FOR PIG IRON ) 
The following Freight (Place Extras ) are to be added over the base prices in 
respect of items under Schedule III, subject to the provisions of CONDITIONS 
FOR SALE relevant thereto , for the respective rail -head : - 
FREIGHT (PLACE EXTRAS ) LIST NO . 1 OF 1956 

PIG IRON 


Destination 


Destination 


Place 
Extra per 

ton 


Place 
Extra per 

ton 


Rs. A , P . 


Rs. A . P . 


• 


6 0 0 
2340 
37 80 


++ 


36 00 Badampehar 
4 0 0 Bagah 
4 4 0 Banga , 

Bahraich 
Baheri 

Banda 
o Bandel 
8 O Bangalore City & Cantt. 

12 0 Bangrod 
22 4 0 Barara . 
18 4 0 Barmer , 

I2 O Barnagar , 

4 0 Barnabamangaon 
29 12 o Baroda 


+OOC 


Baraset 


Abohar , 
Adra 
Agarpara . 
Agra City 
Ahmadgar 
Ahmedabad 
Ahmednagar 
Ajmer . 
Ajhai 
Akbarpur 
Akola 
Akkelu Balu 
Allahabad 
Alleppey 
Aligarh , 
Allur Road 
Alwar 
Alwaye 
Ambarnath 
Amritsar 
Ambala Cantt. 
Ambala Çity 
Amargoli 
Amroha , 
Amausa , 
Anieli 
Anjhat . 
Annupnagar 
Anand 
Andheri 
Anakapalle 
Arbelia 
Arrah 
Arkonam 
Arsikere . 
Asansol 
Aşårva 
Aurangabad 
Azamgarh . 
Azamabad 


ܘܬܣܘܘܬܣܘܘܘܘܘܘܘܬܩܩܬܗܘ8ܬܘܠܛܛܘܬ 


QOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


20 


301 


25 


Bargi Town . 

Baghpat Road , 
I2 O Baramati . . 
IZ O Barabani , . 
o o Baregadi . 

O O Barham Ghat 
34 12 0 

Barhni 
8 0 Barhaj Bazar . 
O Barharwa 

Bassi Pathanan . 

Baidyanathdham 
12 0 Bareilli 

O O Balawali , . 
80 Baraar 
oo Bajhot 

O Banaras Cantt . 

o Batanagar 
12 o Barnale 
oo Batala 
8 0 Banbasa . 
4 0 Bawria 

4 O Barabanki 
13 . 12 0 Baidyabati 
23 00 Badshanagar 
24 12 0 Barang . 


0 


ܛܤܣܣܣܛܘܘܤܘܘ 


, 


, 


, 150 


706 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1966 


[PART II — SEC. 9 


Destination 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


Place 

Extra 
per ton 


O 


O 


O 


O 


Bairagnia 
Basti 
Barwadi 
Bahram , 
Barauni 
Batialpur 
Baraduar , 
Baralamda 
Bankura 
Barra 
Banjari 
Bally 
Barakar . 
Barwadi . 
Barkakana 
Beawar 
Bedi Bunder 
Bellary , 
Bellaghata , 


000200000 


................... 


600AADIAOOOOORANOO 

00000 


Rs. A . P 

Rs. A. P . 
21 00 Bilaspur . 

20 8 0 
24 8 0 Biljohpura 

30 00 
12 20 Birmitrapur 

8 00 
4 0 Biowan 

28 O 
13 4 0 Birsinghpur 

24 4 0 
0 0 Bisra 

6 12 
0 0 Bobbili . 

23 4 
Bolpur 
Bodhan 

20 12 
Bombay 

Nil 
Central 

Nil 
Byculla . 

Nil 
Cranac Bunder, Dadar, Mahin , 
I2 12 0 Matunga, Parel, Sion , Wadala Nil 

Wadi Bunder. 
24 8 0 
26 8 O Bongaon , 

. S 4 
17 . 4 O Bowringpet 
( Siding ! Brindaban 

charge to Brojorajnagar 
be collect. Broach 
ed locally ) 

Budge Budge 

Budaun 
21 40 

Bullend Shar 
29 8 0 Bulsar 

Burdwan 
O Burhwal 

Burnpur , 
Butari 

· 37 8 0 
Buxar 

. 2000 
Burhanpur 

17 00 


4 


, 


. 


00000000000000 


Nil, 


Bellampalli 
Belanganij (Agra ) 
Belapur . 
Balgaun . . 
Beldanga . 
Belghuriah 
Berhampur (Ganjam ) 
Bettiah 
Bezwada 
Berham pur Court 
Begamabad (Munit) 
Begusarai . 
Bhadrachclum . 
Bhadravati 
Bhaga 
Bhavnagar ( Terinus & Dock ) 
Bharatpur 
Bhind 
Bhiwani , . 
Bhopla 
Bhupa) Sagar . 
Bhusaval (CR ) . 
Bhaktnagar 
Bhedreswar Ghat 
Bhatni , 
Bhatinda . 
Bhagalpur 
Bhapitahi 
Bhojudlh 
Bhimavaram 
Bhurkunde 
Bhuktlerpur 
Bidhgaon 
Bljainagar 
Bijnor . 
Blhta 
Bikaner 
Bikramganj 
Bilega 


Calcutta : 

Beliaghata , Charakdanga , 
Chitpur, Cossipore, Howrah , 
Jagganath Ghat, K . P . Docks , 
Kadamtolla , Kalighat, Kulpi 
gbat, Lilloosh , Meerbahar 
ghat, Narkeldanga, Nimtolla 

Ghat, Ramkrishtopur, Sealdah 
25 8 

Shalimar , Strand Ware House, 
TS 12 

Salkia , Ultadanga . 
Calicut 
Cambey 
Campicrganj 

Canning , 
II I20 Captaingunj 
21 00 Chandrusi 

Chakulia . 
Chakie , 
Chapra . 

Chaibasa . 
O Chellsgaon 

Champion 
Chandigarh 
Chanpatia 

Chakradharpur , 
22 0 0 Chandll 
37 00 Chheharta 


DOAAORAOROONAMOBDOACONTRAAAOAREAS 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 0000000000000000 


. 


5 


AOOOOOOAOOOOOLAOAS 00000000000000000 


— 


PART II — BEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1978 


707 


VT 


Destination 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


C .- - conid . 


Rs. A. P. 


Rs . A . P . 


37 


4 


Chicacole Road 
Chiheru . 
Chingigarh 
Chhitaini , 
Chitoor , 
Chittaranjan , 
Chittaranjan Siding 
Clatterbukganj 
Coconade Port 
Cochin . . 
Coimbatore 
Colgong . 


7007000 


Dhulkot , . 
Dhuri 
Dhrangardra 
Diamond Harbour 
Dlbai 
Diksal 
Dildarnagar 
Dighaghat 
Dinapur , 
Dohad , 
Doiwala . 
Doraha . 
Dubrajpur 
Durgapur , 
Dwarka , 


*NOUTONOMOS 


000000000000000 


Contal Road 


JI 4 0 
14 8 0 
19 8 0 
21 00 


00000000000000000000000000 


Cuddalore Jn . 
Cuttack 
Calicut 
Cannancore 
Chakdaha . 
Chinchwad 
Chikmagalur O . A . 
Chamrajarnagar 
Chitaldrug 
Chandanagore , 
Chintamoni 
Chindwara 
Chandigar ( W . R .) 
Chinchvad 


gostocoo5000+ 


Elichpur . 
Ellis- Bridge 
Ellore 
Ernakulam 
Erode . 
Ettawa . 


21 00 
. 17 12 

16 12 0 

20 00 
, 14 00 

27 12 0 


• 


. 
- 


, 25 OO 

19 120 


F 


Faridkote 


. 


: 


35 


Fatehpur 
Fazalganj Goods shed 
Fazalganj Goods siding 
Ferozabad 
Ferozepur 
Forbesgan ) 
Fort Gloster . 
Fulcswar . 
Furukhabad 
Futwa 
Fyzabad 


00006OOVAQOAAO 000000000000 


Dabra 

28 00 
Dakhineswar Rail head Mill Siding 
No. 2 

4 8 0 
Dalmia Dadri 

31 0 0 
Dalmlanagar 
Dalmiapuram 
Dalsinggeral 
Daltonguaj 
Dankeur 
Danea 
Darbhange 
Daurala 
Davangere 
Deoband 
Dhanbad 
Dehradun 
Dehrl- on - Sore , 
Dehusu Road , 
Dehu Road 
Delhi Cold & new ) 
Delhi Shahdara 
DelhiKshenganj 
Deoria Sadar . 
Degur 

o 
Dhampur 

o 
Dhanuskodi 

o 
Dharampur 
Dharcwal 

38 12 0 
Dhola 

23 00 
Dholpur (State 

12 0 
Dhond , . 

. 10 

8 O 


HOMEOOOODADOAAOORCAAAOOo 

OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


Gadag . . 
Galsi 
Gangadevi , 
Gan Basoda i 
Gani Dundwara 
Garden Reach . 
Garwa Road . 
Gauribazar 
Gaya 
Ghat Koper , 
Ghat Sila 
Ghaziabad 
Ghorcasahan 
Ghughli 
Golden Rock 
Gobindgarh 
Goilkera , 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


. 


. 6 00 


708 


THE "GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1958 


[ PART II — SEC, 3 


Destination 


Destination 


Placc 
Extra 
per ton 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


G .- - contd . 


Rs. A . P . 


Rs. A . P . 


. 


28 


4 


ооооооо- 


4 12 


Gola Gokarannath 
Gidni 
Giridih . 
Gomoh 
Gondal , 
Gorakhpur 
Goribidour 
Gorumahisani 
Goraya 
Goroth 
Goyagate 
Gubbi 
Gulbarga 
Guntur , 
Gurgaon . 
Gurudaspur 
Gwalior . 


22 OO 


OOOOO 


IS 


16 
18 


0 
0 


IS 
IO 


26 


36 12 
28 12 


000 


Jadubpur . 
Jagadhri 
Jagraon . 
Jahanabad 
Jalpur , 
Jaitų 
Jajou 
Jalesar Road 
Jalgaon . 
Jalna 
Jamalpur 
Jamiatand 
Jamnagar 
Jamatra , 
Jamuria , 
Taora 
Japla 
Jaraikela 
Jarwai Road 
Jaunpur . 
Jeonathpur (ER ) 
Jhajha 
Jhansi 
Jhargram 
Jharradih 
Jharsuguda 
Thinkpani 
Jodhpur . 
Jogbani . 
Jointepura 
Joravarnagar 
Jubbulpore 
Juhi 
Jukchi 
Jullundur 
Jumpa Bridge 
Junagadh 


OOOWACOCOOOACOARATADORONOACOROA 


I3 


26 


боооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооо 


21 


4 4 
30 12 
4 8 


OOOOO 


, 


13 


o 


. 


38 


12 


0 


. 


25 


OO 


. 


26 


Habra 
Haldwani 
Halisahar 
Hamira 
Hapur 
Hardoi 
Hargaon . 
Harinagar 
Harihar . 
Harkhna , 
Harpalpur 
Hasanpur Road . 
Hassan 
Hathna 
Hathras Killa & Cit 
Hatkanangale 
Hazaribagh Road 
Himgir . . 
Hingoli , 
Hirapur Kulti . 
Hindagarh 
Hissar 
Holalkere 
Holenarsipur 
Hoogli . 
Hoshiarpur 
Hospet 
Howbagh (Jabalpur ) 
Hubli , 
Hussainiwala . 
Hyderabad Deccan ) . 


AOOO 


6 8 0 
II 8 0 
19 12 0 
Nil 


K 


. 18 
• 34 


060000+OVATO 

00000000 


0 


0 


Kacheguda 
Kadi 
Kadur 
Kaithal , 
Kallipahari 
Kalka 
Kalol 

Kalyan 
4 0 Kampookothi 

Kamptec 
Kanchrapara 
Kanban 
Kanhegaon 

Kaiganj 
4 0 

Kankaria , 
0 0 

Kankinara 
. 4 4 0 Kanpur . 
, 14 00 Kapurthala 
- 22 4 0 Karamsad . 

29 1ż Karaikudi 


SACAAOOOOAOOOOOAAOHOO 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


Ib 
Indore 
Ishapur 


, 
. 


, 


25 


Itola 


.:::.. 


. . 


, 


37 


Itwari : 
Izatnagar , 


. 
. 


IS 12 
IS 4 


. 


0 


PART II. SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1956 


709 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


per ton 


Rs. A . P . 


Rs. A . P . 


Kymore Siding ( Jukehi) 


. 


26 


8 


0 


L 


ܘܣܘܤܘ 


OOO 


• 
, 


27 12 
25 4 


ܣܣܘܠܝܬܘܬܛܤܦܛܟ 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


Laheriasarai 
Lakhimpur Kheri 
Lakhori . 
Lakshmiganj 
Lalgolaghat 
Lalkua , 
Latchar , 
Lharkgar . 
Limbdi . 
Lohat Siding 
Luckeşarai 
Ludhiana . 
Lucknow , 


SODA30COROA OOOOOOOOOOOOO 


. 


. 


25 


ܬܬܛܛܘܬ 


το 
28 12 
15 8 
I5 12 


000000 


0 


Nil . 


Nil. 


Karad 
Karera - 
Karkenda , 
Карпаl 
Kartarpur 
Kashi 
Kashipur . (ORR ) 
Kashimbazar 
Katihar . 
Kathunanagal . 
Kathgodam . . . 
Kathkuyiyan 
Katni . 
Katrasagarh 
Kesinga , 
Khada 
Khagaria . 
Khagraghat Road 
Khalari . 
Khalaria . 
Khamameth 
Khana Jn . 
Khandwa 
Khanna , 
Khanoodi 
Khargodhe 
Kharsia . 
Khatauli , 
Kharagpur 
Khardia siding 
Khekra 
Khirsadoh 
Khodiar 
Khopoli , 
Khudaganj 
Khurda Road 
Khurja 
Kiccha 
Kirkec 
Kirloskarvadi 
Kishangarh 
Kishanganj 
Kistna Çanal 
Koilpatti . 
Kolar 
Kolhapur , 
Konnagar . 
Kopergaon 
Kosi Kalan 
Kotkapura 
Krishangar City 
Krishanarajanagar 
Kuldiha . . 
Kulti 
Kumardhubi 
Kunbakonam . 
Kundara . 
Kurduwadi 
Kurla , 
Kurukhetra 
Kusunda , 


0000000000 


, 


17 
18 
32 


0 
4 
8 


29 


21 


+Of 


20 


o Madanapalle 

Madan Mahal . 
Maddur . 

Madhavanagar 
18 0 0 Madhubani 
35 12 0 Madhupur 

Madras . 
18 12 0 

Beach . 
13 4 0 

Egmore . 
Perambur 
Royapuram 

Salt Cotaur 
Madukarai . 
Moura 
Mahiuddinpur . 
Maholi . 
Mahuva , 
Mainpur , 
Mairwa , 

Majhowlia 
O Malerkotla 

O Mandapam 
25 12 0 

Mandya , 
I 

iz 
I 

Mangalore 
15 4 O Manharpur 
20 00 Mankapur Ghat 

Manmad 

Manpur Nagaria 

o Mansurpur 
II 12 0 Margheraita 

Marhowrah 
8 o Marikuppam . 
6 0 0 Marmagana Harbour .. 
17 8 0 Marwar Palai . 

Masodha , 
Nil. McCluskieganj . 

4 4 Mehsana 
. 14 4 0 Meerut City 
, 20 12 0 Mesulipatam . 
· 13 12 0 Metuguda Siding 

3 12 0 
. 33 12 0 
· JI 00 


FOODAANOtoOOOOOOOOCACOACOAAS 


ao 


OOOOOO0000000000000000000000 


II 


+0+000++++0000000+ 


4 


O 


no 


O 


O 


00000 


21 8 0 
( excluding 

siding 
charge ) 


nn 


710 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1958 


[ PART II — SEC. 3 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


Rs. A . P. 


. 


. II OO 


21 12 


Meturdam 
Mettupalaiyam . 
Midnapur . 
Miraj 
Miranpur Katra 
Mirsapore . 


Rs, A . P . 

8 o Nellikuppam 
8 0 Nellimarla 
4 0 Nellore . 
4 0 Nidadavolu 
10 Nilokheri . 
o o Nimdhi . 
O o Nirmali . 

O Nizamabad 

O Nowrozabad 
20 00 


C 


Mithapur · 


لالالالاليا 


20 12 
20 12 


. 


· 48 OO 


Na 


NON 


OOOCOAOOO 


00000000000000000 


31 12 0 
- 17 8 0 
, 4 8 
. 12 00 


P 


. 


Modinagar . , 
Moga Tahsil 
Moghal Sarai 
Mohamadabad . 
Moharajganj . 
Mohuda : 
Mokamch Ghat 
Monghyr 
Morana , 
Morar Road 
Moradbad 
Morinda . 
Mortakka , 

Могуі 
Motihari 
Motipur . 
Mugma , 
Muktapur . 
Muland . 
Munderwa . 
Muradnager 
Muri , 
Murshidabad 
Muttra . 
Muzaffarnagar , 
Muzaffarpur 


13 8 
94 
II 0 


, 


21 


Okha 
Olavakkot Jn . O 

Ondal 
10 8 0 Oorgaum . 
29 12 

Oral (C .R .) 
28 12 
30 4 0 

Pachora : 
O Paharpur . 
O Pakur 

Pachrukhi , 
Padrauna . 
Padugupadu 

Palasscy . 
4 0 0 Palwal 

O Panagarh . 
O Pandu via A . I, 
O Panipat 

Parbhani , 
28 12 0 Parli . 
33 8 0 Partabgar . 
17 

Pathardih , 
17 

Patiala . 
Patna City 
Patna Jn . . 
Periyanaickenpalayam 

Phagwara , 
4 O Pharenda . 
16 4 0 Phillaur , 
22 4 0 Phusre 

8 0 Pilamedu 
22 4 0 Pilibhit 

Pilitana 
Pipli 

Pipraich 
O Podanur , 
O Pondichherry . 
O Poona , 
o Porbandur 

Protapnagar 
o Purulia 

Puttur , 


KALOAAOONAORADA OOOOOOO 


A 


OOOOOOOOOOOO0000000000000000000000000000 


Mysore 


, 
. 


ܤܣܘܛܛܘ&ܛܤܬܘܘ8ܛܩ8ܘܤܩܣܤܟܣܘܬܗܗܬܬܘܛܢܘܚܗ 


Nabadwipdham , 
Nadiad 
Nagpur 
Nathati 
Nain ! . . 


, 
. 


to+ 


. 


. 


Nalhati . . 
Nalpur 
Nander , 
Nangaldam 
Nangi 
Nanjangud T . 
Narela 
Narkatiaganj 
Narnaul . 
Narsapatnam 
Naşik Road 
Nasirabad . 
Nangachia 
Nayagari . 
Nawabganj (Gonda ) 
Nawashahr Doaba 
Nazarbagh 
Negåpatam 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


Quadian Muglan 


Quilon 


. 
. 


39 
22 


0 
8 


Oo 


. 





. 


. 


• 
• 


25 12 0 

O O Radhanagar 
23 4 0 Rai Bareily 
15 4 0 Raighash . 


, 
, 
, 


IO 4 
24 0 
12 8 


7000 


O 
0 
0 


PART II - SEC . 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1958 


711 


- LA . 


Destination 


Place 

Extra 
per ton 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


12 


NNNNN wwRKA 


17 


18 


23 


19 


Rai- ka - Bag Palac ? 
Raipur 
Rairangpur 
Raja -ka -Shahaspur 
Rajamundry 
Rajbandh 
Rajgangpur 
Rajkot Town 
Rajkot Jn . 
Rajnandgaon 
Rajola Jn . 
Rajpura . 
Rajula City 
Rakha Mincs 
Ramkola . 
Ramanagaram 
Rampur , 
Rampurhat 
Ranaghat , 
Ranchi . 
Ranchi Road 
Raniganj , 
Ratlam . 
Rayaghada 
Raxaul 
Rewari 
Rohtak 
Riga 
Rishra 
Robertsganj 
Rohanakalan 
Roorkee . 
Rourkela , 
Rupnarainpur 


OOO 
00 


Rs. A. P. 
24 8 o Satara Road 

00 Saugur 
4 12 0 Satna 
30 4 0 Sechara 
18 4 Secunderabad (Dn.) 

0 0 Seethanagaram . 
4 0 Sehore Cant 

o Serampure . 
24 12 0 Sevalia (Ba lasino ) 
23 8 0 Seven , 

ZI 
Shahbad 
O Shahgunj . 

Shahpur Patori . 
12 0 Shahjahanpur . 

o Shakurbasti 
O Shamli . 

O Shamnagar 
12 0 Shedbal , 

Sheoraphuli 
O Shendurni 

14 
8 ó Shikohabad 

28 1 
4 4 0 Shimoga Town . 

19 
oo Shewea -budih . 
24 Oo Shiyali . 

21 12 0 Sholapur . 
• 30 0 0 Shoramur . 
, 32 8 0 Sidhpur 

19 
8 Sidhwalia . 

Sikar 
Siliguri 
Şimblouli 
Simla Hills 
Sindri Asstd . Siding . 
Singanallur 
Sirhind , 
Sini , 
Sirpur- kaghaznegar 
Sisva Bazar 
Sitalpur , 

Sitamarhi . 
o Sitapur City & Sitapur Thomson 

gani Siding 
O Sitarampur 
4 Sivakasi 

Siwani 
4 0 Sodepur , 
4 0 Solon 

Sope East Bank 
OO Soncpat 
II 12 0 Shri Ganganagar 
27 00 Sultanganj 

Sultanpur Lodi . 
35 12 0 

Sudam . 
O Surajpur . 
o Sura Nussi , 

. 37 
O Surat 
4 O Shiupur , . 

, 20 


0 


AOOOOOA0000 


AOOOOOOOAANOOAAAOOOOAAOAOOOOOOOOOOOROANAFAAA 00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000 


0 


o 


O 


0 


21 I 


o 


O 


Sabar Mmati 
Sabzimandi 
Sagauli 
Şagara , 
Şaharanpur 
Sahjanwe . 
Saila Khurd 
Sainthia 
Sakhoti Tanda 
Şakrigalighat 
Salem 
Sakti 
Samastipur 
Sambalpur 
Sanbhar Lake 
Sampla 
Sanahwal . 
Sagli 
Sangrur , 
Şantipur . 
Santoshpur 
Santragachi 
Sardarnagar 
Sardarsahar 
Sasamusa . 
Şasatam , 
Sasni 


APOATE 

OOOOOOOOOAAAAOAOOOOORAORORAAOA 

000000 


, 


36 


II 


. 


32 4 0 

o 
13 4 0 
30 4 0 


Tahsil Deoria 
Talaiyuthu 
Talamandi 


19 


000 


• 


. 


& 


712 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1968 


[PART II - SEC . 3 


Destination 


Place extra 

per ton 


Destination 


Place extra 

per ton 


• 


Rs. A P. 

4 0 
24 8 0 
32 8 
25 0 


0.00 AOOOO 


. 
. 


. 


. 


13 12 0 
14 I 


Talcher 
Tanuku , 
Tapri 
Taran Taran . 
Tarikeri , 
Tatanagar , 
Thana- bhawan , 
Tikekarwadi 
Tindharia . 
Tinsukla . . 
Tirurpurr . 
Tiruvaru 
Tiagarh 
Titilgarh 
Troposi 
Trichoinopoly . 
Trichur . 
Trivendrum (Central) 
Tugalakbabad 
Tumkur 
Tungabhadra Dam , 
Tuticorin 


Rs. A . P . 
. 17 40 Uluberja . . 
. 18 8 0 Umaria . 

34 12 0 Una 
31 8 0 Unao 
18 12 0 
Nil. 

34 4 0 
. 16 4 o Vambori , 

12 0 Varkhodi (Varkhedi) , 
8 0 Verka : 

12 0 Vikhroli , 
14 8 0 Villivakkam 

o Viragram . 
25 8 0 Virudhunagar 

o Vishunpur 
4 0 Vishrambag 
o O Vishvamitri 

12 0 Vizagpattam (Po: 
31 4 0 Vizianagram 

Vyara 
18 8 0 
21 00 


OOOOOOOOOOOOO 


14 I 
22 
22 
12 


: 


. 


Udaipur 
Udumalpet . 


26 
18 


8 
8 


NN 


. 


ohoooh 000000 


. 


. 


Wadwan . 

Walajabad 
0 Waltergrinj 
0 Wardah . 

Warisaliganj 

Warsanudi 
0 
0 
0 
0 Yeavantapur 


. 


24 8 
. 21 0 

16 
24 8 


· 


Ugarkhurd 
Ujhani 
Ujjain , 
Ukhra , 


• 


16 12 
30 0 
26 8 
8 12 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


13 


8 


0 


APPENDIX III 

EXTRAS LIST 
The following extras are to be added over the base prices for the Sectiong, qualities, etc, 
specified below :- - 

A . – BARS, STRUCTURALS, PLATES , SHEETS, SEMIS & RAILS . 
A . Base Price Item No, I – Bars (Rounds and Squares below 3" and Flats upto and including 
5 " wide)-- 

Ratc 


per ton . 
Rs, A . P . 


1. (i) Rounds and Squares 1" and below 


1 / 2 " 


. 


3 12 


70 
85 


OOOOOOO 


3 / 16 " , 


IIO 
28 


7 / 16 " , 
3 / 8 " . 
5 / 16 , 
1/4 " , 

11/32 " 
( 11 ) Limit Bars (Rounds and Squares to half the tolerance prescribed in 

I.R . S . S . M . 6 / 34 and Hexagons to I. R . S . S . M , 5 / 40 over tested Bage 

Price ) . . . . . . . . . . . 
(ii) Hexagon Bars . . . . . . . . . 


25 O o 
37 8 0 


PART II-- Sec . 8 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12,- 1960 


713 


. 
. 


50 0 
33 00 


( iv ) Half Round Bars (Over price of flats of same thickness and width ) 
(v) Hexagon Bars to I.R .S.S. 3/38 . . . . . . 
(vi) Agrico Bars — . . . . . . . . . 

(a ) Extra for shape (Octagons) . 
(6 ) Extra for High Carbon ( 61. 7 per cent Carbon ) . . . 


. 


6 0 
90 0 


0 
0 


2 . 


Thin 


Flats 


(Rate in Rupees por ton ) 


Thickness 


Width 


16G , 14 - G12 – G 10--- G 
or or Of Or 
1/ 16 " 5 /64" 3 / 32" 1 /8 " 


3/ 16 " 1/4" 5/ 16" 3/8 " 7/16" 


1/2 " 


3 /8 " 


180 


140 


140 


1 / 2 


IIS 


iis 


110 


30 


IIS 
IIO 
IIO 
100 


18 " 


130 
120 


IOS 


3/ 4 " 
13 / 16 " 
7 / 8 " 


tt 


NN: 


uu 


•NN 


100 


IIS 


IIO 


1.1/8" 


I 144 " 


IIO 


X 


ܛܗܿܗ܇܃܇ܗ̇ܗܵܗ̇ܪܪܪܝܺ---- 


NNNNNNNNNNNN 

uuuuuuuuu 


M:NN:::::::::::::::: 


:::::::::::::::: 


S 


20 


So 


iso 


35 


1 / 4 


AP 


Ratc 
per ton . 
Rs. A P . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


225 00 
190 00 


2 .A . Thin Flats 

3/4" X 19/20 gauge 

I X 18" . . . . . 
3 . Bevelled Flats- - . . 

I 1 /2 " X 1" X 1 /4 " 

2 X 1/4 " Flats with top Round Edges 
B . Base Price Item No. 2 — Bars, Other Sizes — 

I. Rounds 

3" to g." . . . . . 


. 


IO OO 
10 00 


Cages 


, 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


6 - 1/2" 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


13 12 0 
20 OO 
26 4 0 
33 12 0 
46 40 


2 . Squares 

3" , 3 . 1/8 ", 3 : 1/4 ", and 3 : 1/2 " 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


13 


714 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1956 


[PART II — Sec. 3 


B . Babe Price item No . 2 - Bars , Other Sizes - conti . 


Rate per ton , 

Ro. A . P . 


.. 


3 . Large Flats (including R .E . Flats) 
(1) Width 8" and over 

(a ) Thickness 1 / 2 " and over 
b ) Thickness under 1 / 2 " to 3 /8 " 
c) Thiškaess under 3 , 8 to 3 / 16 " 

( d ) Thickness under 3 / 16 " to 1/ 4 " 
(li ) Width overy and under 8 " 

( a ) Thickness 1 / 2 " and over 
(0 ) Thickness ligder 1 /2 " to 3 /8 " 
( c ) Thickness under 3 / 8 to 3 / 16 " 

Thickness under 3 / 16 " to 1 /4 " 


. 


sono *ooSaoason 


oooo0000 


... 


C .-- Base Price Item No. 3 - Structurals 

1. Joista 

24 " X 7 1/2 " , . 
22 " X 7 . 
20 " X 6 . 1 /2 " . . 
20 " X 6 . 1/ 4 " , 
18 " x 6 " 
4 3 /4 " XI. 2 / 4 " 
4 * X3 X 10 lbs. or 9 5 lbs. 
4 " X 2 . 21/32 " 
4 " x 2 " L . W . Jolst 
4 XI. 3 / 4 " . 

3 * X 1 . 1 /2 " . 
2. Channels , 

15 " x 4 " 
12 " * 3. 1/2" : 


. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 


........... 


4***449yagona 


XXXXX คงตาตกลม== 


: 


oto000000000000000000000+NOOO 00000000006 
000000000000 
bodo 
ó 
6 


. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 


& x 3" . . : 
6 x 3o 

X 2. 1 /2" , 
4 " x 2 " X 9 . 24 lbs. 

X 2 x 7 91 lbs. 
4 " x 2 " X 7 . 09 lbs . 
4 " X I 3 / 8 * 
I 1/4 " x 1. 3 /8 " 
1 . 1 /2 " X I . 1,4 " 


................ 


X 


X 


X 


X 


3 " X 


1 1 /2 " 


. 


C. 


Base Price Item No . 3 - Structurals -conid . 


3 . (a ) Angles 


(Rates in Rupees per ton .) 


PARTIISEC.3] 


Size 


1/2" 


7/16" 


3/8" 


5/16" 


14" 


3/ 16 


9; 64 


1/8" 


5 / 32 " 


: 
: 
: 
: 
: 


. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


oooooooow 


5 " x 3 " 
4 X 4 " 
4 X 3 
3 . 1/2 " X 3 1/2 " 
3 . 1 /2 " X 3 . 
3 1"/ 2 X 2 . 1 /2" 
3 X 3 . 
3 X 2 . 1 /2 " . 
3 " x 2 
2 - 3/4 " X 2 : 3/4 " 
2 - 1/2 " x 2 " 1/2 " 
2 1/ 2 X 2 " . 
2 . 1/ 2 " X 1 1/2 
2 . 1/4 " x 2 - 1/ 4 " 
2 X 2 
2 X I I 2 . 
I 3 /4 " X 1 3 /4 " 
I 3 /4 X 1. 1/4 " 
1 . 1/2 " X 1" 1 /2 " 
1. 1/4 " X 1 1/4 " 
I XI . 
3/4 " x 3/4" . 


i 4 o 
I 4 O 
14 O 
I 4 o 3 

I 4 O 
. 1 4 0 3 12 O 

I 4 O 
5 O 5O S O 78 8 12o 
. 

. SOO 7 8 0 8 12 O 

5007 8 0 8 
DO SOOS OO 7 8o 8 

. . II 4 O 12 8 0 15 OO 
. . 14 O II 40 12 8 0 15 OO 

II 4 O 12 8 O IS O O 
oo 

IL 4 0 12 8 15 O O 18 12 O 
. . . . . 

. 200 0 . , 
20 O O 20 OO 20 

.. . .. 27 8 O 30 OO 
16 4 0 18 12 0 20 D O 23 12 O 
. . . . 25 0 0 28 12 0 

25 O O 27 8 35 
. . 

25 DO 278 0 


THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
, 
MAY 
12 
, 
1956 


: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: OOOOOO 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


18 


o 


oOo 


. 


. . . 


0 
. . 


35 OO 
35 00 
70 OO 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


715 


716 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1056 


PART II - Sec. % 


C .- Base Price Jtem No. 3- -Strlicturals -conid . 

3 . (b ) Angles 


Rate per ton 

Rs. A , P . 


0 


0 


20 
ΙΟ 
IO 
IO 


. 


IO 


. 


. 


8 " X 8 " 
3 X 2" X 1 /4 " (Wagong Doors) . 
2 1/2 " X 13 / 16 " (Door striking Bars ) . 
3 3 /4 X 1 7/ 8 " x 3 /4 " Horn Check Section 
2 . 1 / 2 " x 2 . 1 /2 " x 3 / 8 " with round back and Sq . root 
2 . 1/ 2 " X 2 . 1 /2 " X 1 / 4 " with round back and Sq, root 
2 . 1 /2 " X 2 1/2 X 3 /8 " with round back and root 

2 1 / 2 " X 2 . 1/2 " X 1 /4 " with round back and root , , 
4 . Bulb Angles 

10 " X 3 1/2 " X 3 /8 " and thicker 
5 1/ 2 " X 3 X 3 /8 " 

4 " X 2 . 1/ 2 " 
5 . Tees 

3 " X 3 " x 38" 
4 " x 3 " x 3 /8 " 
4 " x 3 " X 7 / 16 " 
3 * X 3 " X 3 , 8 " 
2 . 1 /2 " X 2 . 1 / 2 " X 3 / 8 " 
2 1 / 2 " x 2 . 1 /2 " X 1/ 4 " . 
2 " X 2 X 1 /4 " 
2 . 1/ 4 " x 2 . 1/ 4 " X 1, 4 " . 
2 " L . W . Tees . 
1 . 3. 4" X 1 3 /4 " x 3 / 16 " X 2 . 14 lbs . 
I . 3 / 4 X 1 3 /4 " X 1/ 4 " . . 

1 . 1 /2 " X I 1/ 2 " X 1 /4 " , 
6 . Bridge Rails 

56 lbs. and 70 lbs. . . . . . . . . 
D -- Base Price Item No . 4 - Plates 3 /8" and up 

1, Thickness 

5 / 16 " . . . . . . . . . . 
1 / 4 " , . 

. . . . . . . . 
3 /16 " , 
2 . Circular or Half Circular Plates . . . . . 
3 . Miscellaneous 

Plates below 24 " wide . 
Plates weighing over 2 tons per piece 
Cold Flattening 3 / 16 " and up . 

Copper Bearing Plates with Copper content . I to 2 per cent. 
4 . Normalising 
3/ 16 * and up 

. . . . 
5 . (i) Extras for Heavy Plates 3/ 16 " thick and thicker 
Extra for thickness , 

Over It " upto and including it" . 
" T upro and including 1 3 /4 " . 
" 1 3/ 4 " upto and including 2 " . 
" 2 " , . . 


00000000 OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


. 


. 


528 


. 
. 


. 
. 


3 12 

7 8 
II 4 


. 


. 


. 


. 
. 


IO 0 0 
Ιο ο ο 
IO 
15 00 
15 


: 


: 


. 


. 


. 


15 


OOOO Oooo 


Extra for sizes 
Width for every 3 " or part over the following limits of width 

(a ) 1/4" and under 3 /8 " thick , 66 " wide . . . , 200 
(6 ) Under 1/4 " down to and including 3 / 16 " thick for every 6 " or part 

in excess of 60 wide . . . . . . . . II 4 0 


PART II — SBC 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1930 

RS 


717 


Rate per 

ton 
Rs. A . P . 


. 
. 


. . S 80 
. . 94 O 

, II 4 O 


( ii ) Extras for medium plates under 3 / 16 " thick 
Extras for length 

Exceeding 12 and upto and including 14 . 
” 14 and upto and including 16 . 

16 and upto and including 20 
E . - Base Price Item No. 5 - Chequered Plates 1 /4 " and up 

I. Thickness 

3 / 16 " , 
2 . Circular or Half Circular Plates . 
3. Miscellaneous 


. 


h . 1000 
· 25 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


· 


ܘܘܘ 


Ooo 


. 


. 


. 


. 


· 


Plates below 24" wide . . . . . 
Platce weighing over 2 tons per piece . .. 

Cold Flattening 3 / 16 " and up , . . 
4 . Normalising 

3 / 16 " and up . . . . . . 

1 / 8 " . . . . . . . 
F . Base Price Item No. 6--- Boiler Plates 3 /8" and up 

1 . Thickness 

5 / 16 " . . . . . . . 


. 


15 


0 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


8 


0 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


3 12 0 
m 8 o 
II 4 0 
25 0 0 


. 


. 


. 


. 
• 


oto 


000 000 


. 


. 


. 


. 


15 00 


6 


0 


. 


3 / 16 " . 

. . . . . 
2 . Circular or Half Circular Plates 
3. Miscellaneous 
Plates below 24" wide . 

· 
Plates weighing over 2 tons per piece . . 

Cold Flattenig 3 / 16 " and up . . . 
4 . Normalising 

3 / 16" and up . . . . . . 
G . -- Base Price Item No. 7 ---Black Sheets (Gauges 10 to 14) 

I. Extra for Gauge 

15 to 16 gauge 
17 to 18 Gauge 
19 to 20 Gauge . . . . . . 
21 to 22 Gauge . . . . . . 
* 23 to 24 Gauge . 

. . . . 
25 to 26 Gauge . . . . . . 
27 Gauge . . 
28 Gauge . 
29 Gauge . 
30 Gauge . . 

. . . 
31 Gauge , 
* Not applicable to 24 Gauge Black corrugated sheets . 


. 
. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 
. 


. 
. . 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 
. 


15 O 
25 0 
28 


. 


OOOOOOOOOO oooooooo 


. 


. 


. 


· 
. 


. 


· · 64 0 0 
. . 77 OO 

, 84 00 


. 


718 


THE GAZETTE 


F INDIA , MAY 12, 1956 


[PART II - SEC : 3 


G . – Basc Price Item No.7 — Black Sheets (Guages 10 to 14) - contd . 
2. Extras for special processing 

* ) Unannealed corrugated . . 
tii) Annealed corrugated , 
(ii ) Cold Rolling ( for each pass) . 
(iv ) Roller Levelling . . 
(u ) Pickling (once pickled ) 


Rate per ton 

Rs. A . P. 
5oo 
13 00 


( a ) 14 / 24 Gąuge , 
( b ) 25 /26 Gauge . 
© 1o Gauge 
(d ) II to 13 Gauges 
(0 ) 28 Gauge 
( f ) 29 Gauge 
( 8 ) 30 Gauge 


0000OONOOD 


000OOOOOOO 


( v1 ) Coating with Linseed oil 
( vii) Coating with Prevoke oil 

(viit) Dcoxydisation of sheets 
3. Extras for Special Quality , 
6 ) Black Panel sheets tested to I.R .S . Specification No. M -22/ 39 up to 24 

Gauge ( over tested Basc Price ) 
(ix ) Blacke Sheets to a modification of B . s. Specification No . 13 of 1910 

(over tested Base Price .) . 
(1 ) Black Sheet to Specification B .S./STAS/V /2c & V3 : : : 
(iv ) High Carbon Sheets 


65 00 
5 00 
22 8 0 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


- 40 % to under 50 % carbon 

50 % to under 60 % carbon 
- 60 % to under 40 % carbon , 
- 70 % to under 80 % carbon . 


208 00 


N . B . - Where High Carbon sheets call for Carbon range within more than one of the above 
specifications the higher extra will be rocoverable . For instance, if . 35 per cent, to . 55 per cent. 
carbon shçets are required the extra will be Rs. 50 per ton . 


· 15 00 


(v ) Double scaming quality . 
( vi) Dead soft quality 
(vii ) Double Annealed sheets 
( viii) Drum quality 
( ix ) Deep Drawing or Deep Stamping quality 

( ) Normaliņing . 
(x2) Spring Steel sheets from Electric Furnance 
(xii) Copper Bearing sheets with Copper Cotent . 15 % to 25 % 


20 00 
216 00 
, IS OO 


*Not applicable to 24 gauge Black corrugated sheets . 

The extre is only Rs. 8 /- per ton in case of 24 gauge Black corrugated sheets. 


G . - Base Price Item No. 7 - Black Sheets (Guages 10 to 14) conid . 

4. Extras for Special Sizes 
(1) Black Sheets 

(Rate in Rupees per ton ). 


PARTII-SEC.3] 


Size 


Gauges 
176 18G 


IOG 


IIG 


12G 


13G 


4G 


15G 


16G 


19G 


20G 


21G 22 /23G 24G 24 /25G 26G 


28G 


. 


3 12 


. . 


. 
. 
. 
. 


18 I2 


00 


: 
: 
: 
: 
: 


. 


II 


4 


3 


12 


5 12 


3 - 2 X2 


Hii!. 0000 


:::::::::::::::::::::: 


wwwwav 


3 12 


3 IZ 


:::::::::::::::::::: 


:::::::::::::::::::::::::: 


3 12 


2 - 11 X8 46 
2 - 6 X TO , 
2 - 3 XI 
2 - 31xg - 2 
2 - 6 X2 . 
3 - 0 " XI 
3 XI S . 
3 XI - . 
3 X2 . 
3 X2 - 6 " . 
3 - 6X2 
4 3 . 
4 x 10 - 41" 
4x146 . 
4 XI- 87 . 
4 * 7 X4 
4 X6 - 10 , 
4 - 71 * 3 - 101 
445x1 – 10° 
5 - 6 XI - 10 
6XI - 3 . 
6 XI - 7 
6 XI _ 87 . 
6 XI - - 10 
6 x4 - 8 
6 X 8 
7 X6 
7 -- I XI - 101 
7 - 4 XI - 10 
8 xi - 10 . 
8 XI - 81 . 


TO 


* 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,MAY12,1966 


:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 


. . 


5 IO 


:::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 


3 


12 


3 IZ 


ISO 


4 


::::::::::: 


III 


3 12 


. 
: 
: 


3 iz 


.. 


.. 


.. 


.. 


. 


. 


I2 


612 


720 


G . Base Price Item No. 7 – Black Sheet (Gauges 10 to 14 ) conid . 

4 . Extras for Special Sizes contd . 
(i) Black Sheets contd . 

(Rate in Rupees per tom ). 

Gauges 
Size 

10G IG 12G 13G 14G ISG 16G 17G 18G 


19G 


20G 


216 


22123G 24G 


25G 


26G 


28G 


8 XI 


1 . 


. 


. . 


8 


22 

. 


11 


. . 
4 


. . 
. 


3 12 


. . 
. 


18 12 

, 


15 


ob 


9 
7 


6 
8 26 


4 


8 _ 60X60 
8 - 6X3 
8gx5 . 
89X4 - 67 
9 - I X2 - 35 
9 - 10 X 451" 
9 - 10 X 53 
9 - 10 x3 - 97 
9 - 2X 6 * 
9x3 
9x4 - 5+ : 
9X18+ 

9 X 18" 
10 x 16 
TO X 18" 
TO X 26 " 
IO X 46 
IO X 56 
IO X2 - 10 " 
IO4x261 
IO - - 3 X2 - 6 


4 


ا 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,MAY121956 


2 TZ 


. . 


mm 


کیابناکا 


Huwwww 


لبا 
با 
با 
سا 


3 12 7 8 
3 12 7 8 
3 12 II 4 
3 12 II 4 


CO 


3 


0 


8 12 


SI2 


3 12 


20mm 


. 


12 


:::::::::::::::. 


3 12 


YA 
XXXXXXXXNdeanauruNN 

de 


18 12 


Suunuuu 


2 


IT 

MIT 


. 
. 


بیا 


3 12 


10-X54X34 


[PARTIISEC.3 


3 12 


بیا 


: 


10 x2 - 71 
10 -— 2 341" 


SIZ 


. 


. 


, 


بیا 


12 


, 


G . Base Price Item No. 7 - Black Sheets (Gauges IQ to 14 ) - contd . 

4 . Extras for Special Sizes com . 

(1) Black Sheets - contd . 


(Rote in Rupees per ton ) 


Size 


Gauges. 
16G 17G 


IG 


IIG 


12G 


13G 


14G 


15G 


18G 


19G 


20G 


21G 22 23G 24G 


25G 


26G 


28G 


PART11-46*3] 


5 12 
5 12 


512 


78 


SI2 


3 12 


IS 


0 


30 


5 12 


10 x2 - 21 
IO X 29 . 
10 X 37 . 
10 X 45 . 
10 x 36 " 
10 - 2 x 351 
10 X3 
10 x2 - 81" 
10 X2 - 8 
IO X2 46 
10 - 6 " x 
10 - 6 " * 3 - 7 
10 - 6 x12 
10 - 9 37 " 
10 - 9x43t 
IO106846 


SI2 


18 12 


. 


31 


::::::::::::::::::::: 


I7 


:::::::::::::::::::::::::: 


XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 


:::::::::::::::::::::::::: 


:::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 


10 - 6" X 49 


1:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 


THEGALATEOFINDIA,MAY12,1966 


10913 


10 - 11 


5 IZ 
5 IO 

13 2 
17 0 


10 — 3° X 48 


. . 


10 


2 12 


IZ 


IO 


3 12 


10 - 3* X38 
10 - 30 X 36 
10 — 4 * 3 * 
10 x 381 
10 — 3 -go 
IO X4 
II X3 . 
IIfX3 to 3 - 6 
II x over 3 - 6 
II x3 – 6 
II X 3 - 9 
II X4 . 
II X43 . 
II - 1X3 . 


II 


O II 


0 


xxxx 


- 150 


. 


II 


. . 


32 


721 


722 


G . Base Price Item No. 7- Black Sheets (Gauges 10 to 14) conid . 

4 . Extras for Special Sizes contd . 
(1) Black Sheets contd . 

(Rate in Rupees per ton ) 

Gauges 


Sizes 


10G 


IIG 


12G 


13G 


14G 


ISG 


16G 


176 


18G 


19G 


20G 


215 


22 / 23 G 24 G 25G 


26G 


28G 


18 12 
18 12 


. . 
. . 


a 


I1 3 X2 - 47 . 
I - 3 * 3 
II - 3x3 - 77 . 
II - 3x3 - 71? 
II - 1 X4 
II - 4 " x 56 
II - 4x28 
IIX 30 
II - 7x2 - 61 
II - X2 - 47 . 
II 41 4 - 61" . 
II - 6 x3 . . 
II - X4 . 
I - 3 X2 - 4 . 


::::::: 


. 18 12 

18 12 
.. 28 2 


: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 


- 


:::::::::::::::::::: 


: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 


. 


: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,MAY12,1956 


: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 


---- 


000000OOONNANA 


13 2 13 2 

. . 18 12 
23 IO 20 10 


II 
II 
II 


------ 


7 


: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 


8 


T 


-- 


-- 


15 


oo OAO 


0 


15 


o 18 12 18 12 


12 x2 
12 X2 - 6 " . 
12 X2 - 8 " . 
I2 X2 - IO 
12 X3 
12 x3 — 2 . 
12 x3 - 3 , 
12 x 
12 x 45 
12 X4 
12 X4 - 6 . 
12 x12 : 
12 X2 . 


IX 12 


18 12 

15 O 15 0 
3 12 . . 28 4 15 0 IS O 
9 8 . 7 O 15 

15 
• 

0 
8 . 96 . . . . 
· 98 · 3 12 . 15 O 

0 15 0 
. . 16 14 16 14 15 O 15 O ISO 
· 17 O 16 14 16 14 16 14 
, 17 O 16 14 16 14 16 14 18 12 32 O 20 O 

28 2 28 2 
. . . . . . .. 35 10 


<XXXXXXX 


00000000.ON. 


:: 


U 


. . 


45 








18 12 


::::::::: 


32 


0 


doQ 


( 
PART 
II 
— 
SEC 
. 
3 


. 


::::: 


35 to 


. 


28 


2 


PART II Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1966 


723 


Rate per ton 


.*OŽO Oooo00 


G . – Base Price Item No, 7 – Black Shects (Gauges 10 to 14) - contd . 

4 . Extras for Special Sixescontd . 
( 11) Black Corrugated Sheet : 

( I ) IOG X 8 / 3 Corr. XIT " . 
(2 ) 24G XR / 3 Corr . X 12 - 0 " . 
3 ) 24GX 10 / 3 " Corr, x12 - 0 " . . 
(4 ) 24G X 8 / 3 " Corr. XII - 0 " . . 
(s ) 24G X8/ 3 Corr . X 10 - 0 " , 
(6 ) 26G X 10 /3 " Corr .X9 - 0 * 

( 7) 26G X 813" or 9 /3" or 10 /3 " Corr. x 10 - 0 " 
(HI) The follwing extras will apply to sizes not mentioned above 
(a) For widths over 3 and under 3t for such gauges as can be 

supplied to these widths 
(6 ) for widths 3t and up to 4 for such gauges as can be 

supplied in thesc widths, 
(c) For widths over 4 and up to 4t for such gauges as can be 

plicd in chese widths 
( iv ) For non - standard sizes of sheets (but not smaller than 4 X2 ) . 
( t ) Reshearing to g tolarance closer than plus 3 / 8 " . 

(vi) Extra for rolling sheets to specified thickness tolerance . 
(uit ) Pancl Sheets 

10 - 0 " x - 3 " x 3/ 32 " ( 13G ). 
12 -0 " X 2 - 8 " x 3 / 32 " ( 3G ) 


w 


u 


est 


00000000 


12 0 
7 00 


5 . Panel Plates 
(1) Crating charges (per ton ) for Panel Plates 

Box weighing approximately 2 tons gross 
Box weighing approximately 5 tons gross , 
Box wieghing approximately 2 cwts. gross 
Box wieghing (Extra Strong ) 2 cuts, gross 

• 
(il ) For Packing in steel envelopes . . 
Inspection of Panel Plates - - 
All Panel Plates will be put up for Surface Inspection by Govem 

ment and the inspection fec will be charged to the customer. 


32 8 0 
25 00 
3000 
40 00 
13 8 


0 . Stretcher Levelled Sheets-- - 

(1) Patent Flattening and gripper marks removed . . . . 15 OO 
( ii) End shearing after Hattering i, 6 ., Stretcher levelling plus re-shear 
ing on all sides 

, 26 40 
H . - Base Price Item No. 8 — Galv . Corrugated Sheets 

1. 24GX6/1oft . long 
(i) Gauge and length 
16 wauge 

less than the basis price 

Do . 
17 / 18 gauge 

Do. 
19 / 20 » 

Do. 
TE , 12 Over the basis price 
17 / 18 TI 
17 / 18 » 

Do . 
19 / 20 , 

Do. 
19 / 20 » 

Do . 
21/24 » 
21/ 24 , 


II 


Do , 


I ? 
It 
TZ 


งมั8:44๒๒ผงดี.ดี OOOOOOOOOOOOO OOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


IT 


12 


724 


THE GAZETIE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1966 


[ PART II Sec. 3 


Rate per ton . 

Rs. M . P . 


H . - Bage Price Item No. 8 — Galy :" Corrugated Sheets - contd . 

1, 24GX6 / 10 $ ft. long - contd . 
( 1) Gauge and length - contd . 
25 Gauge II over the basis price 
6 /8 ! 

Do . 
Do. 


12 


Do . 


Do. 


fo 
II 


121 


000000000000 OOOOOOOOOOOO 


Do. 


Do . 


( ii) For Non - Standard Sizes 
(lii) Extras for Special sizes. 
10 - 21 " X 10 /3 corr . (2 - 8 ") x 18G 

. . . 
IOʻ- 3 " x 10 /3 corr. (2 - 80) x 17 / 18G 

· · · 
2. Plain Sheets 

(i) For Standard Sizes . . . . 
(ii) For Non - Standard sizes not less than 6 in length and z in width 

( edges ungalvanise 1 where shcarcd ), . . 


98 
9 8 


0 


(iii) Galy . Plain Sheet - - 7 - 6 " x 59 " x 18G . . 

8 X 3 - 2 " X 22G . 
12 X 12 " X 18G . . 
19 . 75 " x3- 875" X 22 /24G 
19 : 75 " x 5 . 875" X 22/24G 
951 " x 231 x 266 ; 
70 + x 36 " X 16G . 
12 - 0 " X 4 - 0 " X 14G . 

To x3 X 28G in 
( iv ) Drum Quality Sheets . . . 

(v ) For shearing G . P . Sheets less than the minimum size of 6 X2 . 
3 . Tested sheets To I. S .D . Speçn . G /Metals 41/H and Specn . No. ISI- 277 

over tested Base Price - ) 


OOOOOOOOOOOO 


3 


O 


Çlags - I Extra Heavy Zinc coating (average 2 : 30 oz per sq . ft.) 
20G and thicker . . . . . . . . . 

35 4 0 
21 /24G 

58 8 0 
26G and thinner . . . . . . . . 8200 
Class- II Special Quality - 
(2 oz. spelter) 16 /20G . . 

15 00 
(2 oz . spelter ) 21 /24G . . 

30 OO 
(2 oz . spelter ) 26G · 

45 Oo 
Class- III ‘ PrimeMerchant Quality , 
( 1•1/2 oz . spelter) 16 /24G , . . 

. . . 10 00 
(1•1 /2 oz . spelter) 26G . . . . . . . 
4 . Depth of corrugation , 

For 3/4 " Depth of Corrugation . . . . 
5 . (i) Shearing G . C . Sheets in length below 6 X2 , . 

300 
( ii ) For Annealing G . C . Sheets 18G and thinner . 

700 


PART II Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12, 1958 


725 


000OOOOO OOOOOOOOO 


Rate per ton . 

Rs. A. P . 
1. — Base Price Item No. 9 – Heavy Rails 
1. Sandberg Controlled Cooled Rails 

I OO 
2 . Chromc Steel Rails . 

(a ) Ordinary . 

(5 ) Special . . 
3. Rails for switches and crossings in standard lengthsof not less than 27 

and not more than 42 . . . . . . . . 
4 . II5 lbs. Scction Rails , 
5 . Rails over 42 but not exceeding 45 in length in ordinary , quality not 

Aubject to controlled cooling treatment 
6 . Rails less than 27 other than switches and crossings 
7 . Drilling bond -holcs . . 

8 . Specified lengths of not less than 27 
J. - Base Price Item No. 10 — Fish Plates for Heavy Rails --- Class A 
1. B Clans Fishplate . . . . . . . 
. 

25 00 

. 
2 . Drilling bond - holes 

. 
K . — Base Price Item No. II - Light Rails 30 lbs and below , 

1. Specified length . . , . . . . . . . . 10 OO 
L . - Basc Price Item No. 12 - - Fishplatcs for Light Rails — 

Nil . . . . . . . . . . . . Nil. 
M . - Base Price Item No. 13 - Tool Steel Kars T $ C /2 or TSC /2A 
I . Rounds 3 " to 5 " and Squeres 3 " to 3 . 1 /2 " 

3 12 0 
2 . Flats over 5 " and under 8 " wide , thickness under 1 / 2 " down to 1 / 4 " , 

2 8 0 
3 . Flats 1" to 2 1 / 2 " wide, thicknes8 1 / 8 " or 3 / 16 " . 

10 0 0 
Flats under I " widc, thinkness 1 /8 " , . 

25 00 
5 . Flata under 1 " wide, thickness 3 / 16 " , , , 
6 . Flats under 1" wide, thickness 1 /4 " or 5 / 16 " . 
7 . Flats under 1 " wide, thickness 3 / 8 " and over . 

8 . Octagonal Bars 3 /4 " to 1 . 1/4 " . . . 
N ... - Base Price Item No. 14 -- Bullet proof plates , Specification IT70C 

I , Final Heat Treatment 
2. Sectional Extra 

(i) 4 mm . thick 
(it) 5 mm . , 
( iii) 6mm . ,, 
(iv ) 7 mm . » 

( v ) 8 mm . » 
3 . lor special annealing preparatory to Gas cutting of plates -- 10 mm . 
thick and over 

21 00 
4 . For Gas cutting 

500 
5 . For each hole drilled . 

. 08 
0 . - Base Price Item No. 15 - Shell Steel Blooms 

Nil . . . . . . . . . . . . Nil 
P . - Base Price Item No. 16 — Shell Steel Bars 

I. 8* Diameter or Gothic Section . . . . . . . 26 4 0 
Q . - Base Price Item No. 17 — Blooms, Salbs and Billets 
1 . (a ) For Billets to I. R . S . S . M . 6 / 34 , Class V (Boiler quality) 

6 4 0 
(6 ) Boiler Rivet quality Billets . 
2 . Telegraph wire quality . 
3 . 35 /40 Tons Tensile Basic Open Hearth quality . 

30 0 0 
Tiscrom quality Billets and Tiscrom Rivet quality Billets . 

58 0 0 
5. Dccp Drawing quality Tin Bar 

15 00 
Electric spring steel Billets 
(1) Specification M . 10 /34 . 

216 
(ii) Specification M . 11 34 water hardened 
(iii) Specification M . JI/ 34 oil hardened 

226 0 
(iv ) Specification M . 24 /34 . . . . . . . 266 0 0 
(v ) Specification M . 25 /34 . . 
(vi) Specification M . 10 (Basic Open Hearth ) 

166 


OOOOOOOOR 00000000000000000 

AOOo 


000000000000 

000000 


216 


291 


726 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1958 


[ PART II - SEC. 8 


mn 


250 


OOOOOOOOO 


50 


oHoa O0000 


Rate per ton 

Rs. A . P . 
Q . - Besc Price Item No. 17 — Blooms, Salbs and Billete - contd . 

7. Electric High Carbon Spring Steel Billets — Analysis of Billets (carbon 

percentage) 
(i ) 5 to 6 

216 0 
(fi ) -61 to 75 

233 
( lli) 76 to 90 
(iv ) 91 to 1 . 2 

266 
8 . Billets to specification TSC . 2 . 

· · 123 0 
9 . Cutting charges for Blooms, Billets and Slabs up to 15 " Sq . . . 100 
1o. Billets with manganese content over 0 . 70 to 1 % . 
II. Electric Acid Stccl Billets . 

12 . Electric Steel tested to M . S . 2713 . . . . . . 120 0 0 
R . — Miscellaneous Extras on all Steel- . . 
1. Special quality , 
1. Tensile Test or Carbon Content of Sheets 
Carbon Range 

Tensile Test (in tons per ser inch ) 
(a ) 15 % to . 25 % 

. . 22- -- 27 . . . . . 9 6 
(b ) over . 25 % to 30 % . . 25 — 29 . . . . 15 0 
(c ) 30 % to 35 % . . 27 – 32 . . . 
(d ) » - 35 % to 40 % , . 30 – 35 . 

. 33 12 0 
2 . Spraying steel strips with Linseed oil instead of olling the strips 

Individually 
3 . Mild steel Flats to specified thickness tolerance ( close to plus 0 . 008 " 
and minus 0 . 004 " and to plus/minus 1/ 32 ") , . 

17 00 
4 . For colling M .S. Rods below 7/16 " dia . . . . . SOO 
5 . Tested Flats 

(a ) 3 /4 " x 7 / 16 " 

lo ) 13 /16 " X 7/ 16 " } . . . . . . . . 25 0 0 
6 . (a ) Special extra for packing of Drum Sheety in 1 ton steel envelope 28 8 0 
(b ) Packing of Drum Sheets in 5 - Ton steel envelope 

. . 8 00 
7 . Extra for Gas cutting charges . . . . . . . 
8. Wrapping with gunny bags . . . . . . , , 12 8 
9. Extras for reelling of bars 

1 . 1 / 2 " and above . 
under 1 . 1 / 2" to I " 

» I " to 7 / 8 " 
, 7 /8 to 3 /4 " , 
» 3 / 4 " to 5 /8 " 

» 5 /8 " to 1 / 2 " 
10 . Extra for Rimmimg steel Billet, Bars, Structurals and Sheets . 
II. Alluminium killed stcel . 
12 . Vanadium Rimming Steel Sheets 
13. Low sulphur & Phospliorus .035 % , 
14 . (a ) Electric Steel 
(i) C Class or Class III . 

70 00 

97 8 0 
(6 ) Open Hearth Steel 

(1) C Class or Class III 

( II ) D Class or Class IV . . 
( c) Tiscrom High Tensile Bars and Structurals . 

84 0 
(d ) Tiscrom High Tensile Plates , 

107 o 
( 6 ) Tiscrom Sheets 

107 0 
Tiscor Bars and Structurals 
( g ) Tiscor Plates 
(h ) Tiscor Sheets 
(1) Flanging pressing quality Plates and Flats 
(1) Boiler quality Bars and Structurals , 

6 4 0 


Oooo 


PC 


. 


. 


OO 


OOOOOOOOOOO 00000OOOOO 


(ii)*D Class or Class IV : 


: 


: 


: 


: : 


: : 


000 AOOOOOOO006 000OOOOOOOOO 


122 
143 


143 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1958 


727 


OOOOOO 


OOOOA 


Do 


Do. 


Rate per ton . 

Rs. . Am p . 
R . - Miscellaneous Extras on all Steel - contd . 
I. Special quality - contd . 

(k ) Steel Tested to Lloyds specification 
(i ) Black sheets 

10 0 0 
( ii) Plates and all sections . . . . . . . , 9 0 0 
(1) (1) For Normalising Bars — 
Rounds and Squares 3 " to 8 " , 

is oo 
Bars weighing 1 . 502 lb , per ft, and heavier 
Bars under I 502 lb . to 668 lb per ft. . 

45 00 
Bars under . 668 lb . to . 376 lb . per ft. . 

Bars under . 376 lb . per ft. . 
( ii) For Izod Test . . . 
(m ) (i) Bars to B .S . S . 51 , Grade A . 

(ii) Bars to B . S . S . 64 and Specn . T } . 

(iii) Bars co B . S . $ . 32 /4 (Basic Open Hearth ) 
(n ) Bars to I.R . S . S . M . 26 / 35 – 
(i) Basic Open Hearth , Class X 
Do 

XI 
(ii) Electric or Acid Steel, Class X 

XI . 
(0 ) (i) Bars to Specification EN . I - - Basic open Hearth Steel . 

Electric steel . . . 
(ii) Do EN , 6 
Do . 

EN . 7 . . . . . 

EN . 8 . 
Do. EN . 10 

Do . EN , 32 . 
( ) (i) Extra for Specification I.R . S .R . 18 /37 ( Acid Steel) 

( ii ) Do. I. R . S .R . 17 (Acid or Electric Steel) . 
( iii) Do . I. R . S . R . 29 Do 
( iv ) Do. I. R . S . T . IA / 34 and T . 1 / 29 

. 
(9 ) Basic open Hearth High carbon Steel - carbon contents - - 

. 35 per cent to . 45 per cent 
. 4 per cent to 5 per cent . . 

- 45 per cent to 85 per cent , 
(1 ) For copper contents in steel - 

Copper upto 35 per cent . . 
Copper over 35 per cent upto 5 per cent , 

Copper over 5 per cent upto - 75 per cent , 

(s) Steel tested to BSS 449 of 1948 and BSS 968 of 1941 
2 . Length 
(a ) Dead Lengths 

28 0 
(5 ) Bars and Sections less than 10 
(c ) Length over 44 per ton per foot subject to a maximum of Rs. 20 per 

ton (Extra freight and other charges for carrying longer lengths to be 
borne by the customers) 

I ο ο 
3 . Extra for Marking 

( a ) Four letters ( Ininimum ) 

(6 ) Each Extra letter 
4 . Bundling and colling charges 
Bundling or coiling for the sections mentioned below 
Angles 

3 / 4 x 3 / 4 " X 1 / 4 " 
3 /4 " x 3 / 4 X 3 / 16 " 
3 /4 " x 3 /4 " X " 1 / 8 " 
I" XIX " 3 / 16 " 

. . . . . . . 500 
I XI X 9 /64" 
I XIX 1 /8 " 
It " x It X 1/8 " 


OOOOOOOOO 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


OOO 


+OOONO 


728 


THL GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 12 , 1958 


[PART II — Sec. 3 


. 


= 


= = 


Rate per ton . 

Rs. A . P . 


R --- Miscellaneous Extras on all Steell - conid . 
Squares and Rounds 

7 / 16 " and smaller 


Thin Flats 
For all sizes mentioned in Base Price Item No. 1, Para A (2) with the 

exception of the following : 
15 / 16 " X " 1/4 " X 5 / 16 " , 3 /8 ", 7 / 16 " & 1/2 " . . . . 

5 00 
Bundling with wire . 

5 0 0 
Wrapping the two ends of bundles with heasian cloth including the 
cost of cloth 

5 00 
If bundling of other sizes not mentioned above is necessary or required by 

the carrier or buyer, the above extra may be charged by negotiation 

with the buyer . 
S . - Wire and Wire Products 

Miscellaneous Extra on Wire and Wire Products 
(i) For oiling wire . . . . . . . . . 10 8 0 

C . R . NATASAN , 
Iron & Steel Controller." 


[No, SC ( A )- 4 ( 253 ) D .) 
M . R . MENON Under Secretary. 


- 


- - 


- 
MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 30th April 1956 


S . R . O . 1114 . It is hereby notifled for general information that Shrimati G . 
Bharadwa ), a member of the Advsiory Panel of the Central Board of Film 
Censors at Bombay retired under sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 10 of the Cinematograph 
( Censorship ) Rules, 1951 , with effect from the 4th March , 1956 . 

[ No, 14 / 1 / 56 - FC . ] 
S . R . O . 1116 .-- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rule ( 9 ) of rule 9 
read with sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 10 of the Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules, 1951, 
the Central Government hereby appoints after consultation with the Central 
Board of Film Censors Shrimati Gopa Bharadwaj, as a member of the Advisory 
Panel of the said Board at Bombay with effect from the 5th May 1956. 

[ No. 14 /1 /88 -FC .] 
D . KRISHNA AYYAR , Under Secy . 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS , DELHI, 1968 


