. 


रजिस्ट्री स. डी . 12 


IDEO 


1 - 1 


भारतको राजपत्र 
The Gazette of India 


प्राधिकार से प्रकाशित 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


सं० १] 
No. 9 ] 


नई दिल्ली , शनिवार , फरवरी 27 , 1965/फाल्गुन 8, 1886 
NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1963/PH ALGUNA 8, 1886 


इस भाग में भिन्न पृष्ठ संख्या दी जाती है जिससे कि यह अलग संकलन के रूप में रखा जा सके । 
Separate paglog is given to this part in order that it may be filed 

as a separate compllation 


मोटिस 

NOTICE 
नीच लिखे भारत के असाधारण गजट 18 फरवरी 1965 तक प्रकाशित किए गए थे - 


The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 18th February , 
1965 : 


No. and Date 


Issued by 


Isguc 
No . 


Subject 


Ministry of Comm 
erce. 


28 5 . 0 . 588 , dated IIth Feb - 

___ ruary , 1965 


Further errendirert to 
( Control) Order , 1962. 


the 


Fxports 


29 S . O . 589 , Dated 12th 

__ February , 1965 


Do. 


Canoelling the Order issued by S . O . 

No . 1527 , dated 4th July , 1959 . 


305 . 0 . 590 , dated Isth 

February , 1965 


Election Commission 

India. 


List of Contesting candidates for the 
hye - election to the House of the 
People from 76- Hathras ( SC ) Parlia 
mentary Constituency . 


31 S . O . 591 ,dated 15th Peb - 

ruary , 1965 


Central Board of Dir - 
ect Taxes . 


The Income- tax (Second Amendment ) 

Rules , 1965. 


16th 


32 S . O .653 , dated 

February , 1965 


Election Commission 

India . 


Amendment to Notification No, 434/. 

13 /61, dated 23rd December , 1961, 


33 S . 0 . 694 , dated I7th Feb - 

ruary ,1965 


Central Board 

Direct Taxes. 


of 


Corrigendum to S . O . No . 169 , dated 

4th January , 1965. 


( 749 ) 


7 50 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965 / PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 


PART II 


Issue 
No. 


No, and Date 


Tasued by 


Subject 


34 


S . O . 655 , dated 18th 

February , 1965. 


Approval of films specified therein , 


Ministry of Informa- 
tion on 1 Broad Cagt 
ing , 


ऊपर लिखे असाधारण राजपत्रों की प्रतियां प्रकाशन प्रबन्धक , सिविल लाइन्स , दिल्ली के नाम 
मांगपत्र भेजने पर भेज दी जाएंगी । मांगपत्र प्रबन्धक के पास इन राजपत्रों के जारी होने की तारीख से 
J0 दिन के भीतर पहुंच जाने चाहिए । 

Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi, Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Gazettes. 


TOT II 3 - guera (ii) 

PART II — Section 3 _ -Sub - section ( ii) 
( रकामवालप को छोड़कर ) भारत सरकार के मंत्रालयों और ( संघ क्षेत्र प्रशासन को होरपर ) 
केन्द्रीय प्राधिकारियों द्वारा जारी किए गए विधिक आपेश और अधिसूचनाएं । 


Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern 

ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administration of Union Territories ) . 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 

New Delhi , the 17th February 1965 
S . O . 656 . - In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951 , the Election Commission hereby publishes the order pronounced on the 
11th January , 1965 by the Election Tribunal, Patna, in Election Petition No. 294 
of 1962 . 

IN THE COURT OF THE MEMBER , ELECTION TRIBUNAL, PATNA 
Present: Shri P . K . Sarkar, Retired Judge of the Calcutta High Court, 

The 11th day of January , 1963 

ELECTION PETITION NO. 294 OF 1982 
Ramasray Prasad Chaudhary - Petitioner, 

Versus 
( 1 ) Satya Narain Sinha 
( 2 ) Rajendra Mahto 
( 3 ) Banari Pd . Sah 

Respondents , 
( 4 ) Hemant Kumar Chaudhary 

( 5 ) Rajeshwar Patel 
For the Petitioner, - Shri Ramakant Verma and Shri Chandrakant Jha, 
Advocates . 

For the Respondent No. 1. Shri B . C . Ghosh and Shri Kanhaiya Prasad 
Varma, Advocates . 

T or the Respondent No. 4. - Shri Sidheshwari Prasad Singh , Advocate, 
For the Respondent No. 5 . - Shri Shyam Nandan Pd . Sharma, Advocate. 

JUDGMENT 
This is an election petition calling into question the election to the House of 
the People from 16 Samastipur Parliamentary Constituency in the State of Bihar 


Sec. ) (it) 1 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965 / PHALGUNA 8 . 1886 


at the General Elections of 1962. Şix candidates who are all parties to this 
petition had Aled nomination papers for this election , but later on two of the 
candidates who are respondent Nos, 4 and 5 . withdrew their candidature and 
the election was contested by the remaining four candidates among whom the 
petitioner represented the Swatantra Party , the respondent No . 1 who was a 
Minister o # the Central Government, represented the Congress Party , the res 
pondent No. 2 represented the Praja Socialist Party and the respondent No. 3 
represented the Socialist Party. The polling was held on four different dates, 
namely , the 18th , 21st , 23rd and 25th February , 1962 and on the 3rd March , 1962 
the respondent No. 1 was declared elected . The votes polled were as follows: 
1. Respondent No. 1 

82,522 votes. 
2 . Respondent No. 2 

R0 , 972 votes . 
3 . Petitioner 

45 ,411 votes. 
4 . Respondent No. 3 

9, 991 votes . 
2 . The election petition which bears date the 11th April, 1962. was sent by 
registered post to the Election Commission and it was received there on the 14th 
April, 1962. The petitioner prayed for two reliets in this petition ; 

( 1 ) a declaration that the election of the respondent No. 1 was void and liable 
to be set aside and ( 2 ) a further declaration that he or any respondent other 
than the respondent No. 1 had been duly elected . 

3 . The grounds on which the election was challenged were commission of 
certuin corrupt practices by the respondent No. 1 and his workers and agents 
and infringement of the law relating to maintenance of secrecy of voting and 
certain other matters . The corrupt practices alleged related to delivery of 
speeches and making of false propaganda by the respondents Noş, 1 and 2 against 
the Swatantra Party , and to making of appeals on the ground of caste , offering 
of inducements to Muslims and other voters , bribing of Harijan voters , hiring of 
vehicles for carrying voters to the polling stations and utilisation of the services 
of certain Railway employees in the matter of canvassing for votes by the reg 
pondent No. 1 and his agents and workers . The particulars of the corrupt 
practices alleged were given in Annexure A and D to the petition . In 
Annexure B to the petition certain leaflets in Hindi were mentioned and it was 
alleged that the workers and agents of the respondent No, 1 hnd distributed to 
his knowledge and with his connivance these leaflets which contained helnous 
and false aspersions on the personal character of the petitioner . It WAS next 
alleged that the respondent No. I had got printed A booklet of songs mentioned 
in Annexure C attacking the Swatantra Party and its leaders and that his agents 
and workers had distributed it in the constituency and had the songs surg on 
loud speakers. In Annexure E to the petition numbers were given of certain 
Government vehicles said to have been requisitioned for the purposes of his 
election by the respondent No . 1 . Instances were given of the infringement of 
the law regarding maintenance of secrecy of voting , of canvassing in or near 
polling stations, of threatening of voters and agents and of other kinds of mis 
conduct at the polling stations. Finally it was stated that the account of election 
expenses submitted by the respondent No. 1 was incorrect and that he had 
suppressed many items of expenses incurred by him and had spent more than 
the limit Axed by law . 


4 . All the respondents except the respondent No. 3 appeared and filed written 
statements . The respondent No. 1 Aled his written statement on 17th August , 
1962 and the others did so on 28th August, 1962. The written statement of the 
respondent No. 4 who is the son and was the election agent of the petitioner 
enclosed the book of songs and one of the leaflets mentioned in the election peti 
tion and gave further particulars about them and about the election expenses 
incurred by the respondent No. 1 , 


5 . The respondent No. 1 in his written statement took certain preliminary 
objections to the maintainability of the election petition . He picaded that it had 
not been Oled in accordance with the provisions of sections 81, 82 and 83 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951 and was not accompanied by copies of 
the leaflets and the booklet mentioned in the Annexures to the petition . He 
specifically objected to the verifications and the affidavit Aled in support of the 
corrupt practices. With regard to the allegations of corrupt practices he specif 
cally denied all of them and contended that they were all talse and baseless and 
that the particulars of such corrupt practices were vague and insuficient. He 
also denied any infringement of the law regarding maintenance of secrecy of 
voting and other matters pleaded in the election petition . He stated that he 


752 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965 / PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 


[PART II 


had always directed his workers and agent not to do anything against the law 
and that they were never guilty of contravention of any law . With regard to 
the account of election expenses submitted by him he denied that it was in 
correct or that any expense was suppressed or that the expenses exceeded the 
limit sanctioned by law . 

6 . The respondent No. 2 denied the allegations made in election petition 
against him but otherwise supported the election petition and pleaded that the 
respondent No. 1 had committed the corrupt practices alleged against him and 
that in consequence his election was liable to be set aside . He prayed that he 
should be declared as duly elected . He did not, however , appear at the trial. 

7 . The respondent No . 5 contended in his written statement that he and the 
respondent No. 4 were not necessary parties to the election petition which was 
liable to be dismissed on this ground and for non - compliance with other provi 
sions of the Representation of the People Act, 1951. 

8 . The following issues were framed on 10th September, 1982 : 

( 1 ) Is the election petition liable to be dismissed u / s 90 ( 3 ) of the R . P . Act , 
1951 hecause of non -compliance with the provisions of sections 81 and 82 of the 
said Act ? 

( 2 ) Does the petition comply with the provisions of section 83 of the R . P . 
Act , 1951? If not, has the Tribunal jurisdiction to enquire into the allegations 
of corrupt practices in the petition and the annexures thereto ? 

( 3 ) Did the respondent No. 1, his workers and agents commit the corrupt 
practices under sub -sections ( 1 ) , (2 ) , ( 3 ) , ( 3A ) , ( 4 ) , (5 ) , ( 6 ) and ( 7 ) of Section 
123 of the R . P . Act, 1951, as alleged in the election Petition or the annexures 
thereto . If so , was the result of the election materially affected thereby ? 

( 4 ) Did respondent No. 1 keep correct account of all expenditure incurred 
and authorised by him or by his election agent in connection with the election ? 
Did the total of the said expenditure exceed the prescribed amount ? 

( 5 ) Was there any infringement of the provisions of the Constitution of India 
in relation to the maintenance of secrecy of ballot or non - compliance with the 
provisions of sections 125 , 126 , 127 , 127 ( A ) , 128 , 129 , 130 , 131 and 132 of the R . P . 
Act, 1951 in this election ? 

( 6 ) Is the petitioner entitled to be declared duly elected from this Constitu 
ency ? To what relief , if any , is the petitioner entitled ? 

9 . Thereafter on 16th October , 1982, the petitioner Aled a petition praying for 
amendment of the verifications appended to the election petition and another 
petition supplying further particulars of the corrupt practices alleged in the said 
petition in the form of Annexures with an affidavit in support of them . Counter 
petitions were then Aled by the respondent No. 1, All these petitions and the 
preliminary issues Nos . ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) were heard on 12th November, 1902 and 
18th November , 1982 and on 29th November , 1962 , the following order was 
passed 

10 . The two preliminary issues which have been heard run as follows: 

1. Is the election petition liable to be dismissed u / s 90 ( 3 ) of the ‘ R . P . Act. 
1951, because of non - compliance with the provisions of sections 81 and 82 of the 
said Act ? 

2 . Does the petition comply with the provisions of section 83 of the R . P . Act , 
1951 ? If not , has the Tribunal jurisdiction to enquire into the allegations of 
corrupt practices in the petition and the annexures thereto ? 

Issue No. 1 . So far as non - compliance with the provisions of section 81 of 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951 to be hereafter referred to as the 
Act , is concerned , there was an objection in paragraph 3 of the written state 
ment of respondent No . 1 that the election petition was not Aled in time or 
before the proper authority . This objection was not, however , pressed at the 
hearing . The election petition hearg an endorsement that it had been received 
by the Secretary , Election Commission , India by registered post on the 14th of 
April, 1962. This is also borne out by the Election Commission s order- sheet, 
The result of the election was announced , as I am informed , on the 3rd March , 
1962. So the election petition was Alled in time and before the proper authority , 
Certain other objections regarding non - compliance with the provisions of sec 
tion 81 ( 3 ) of the Act were also not pressed . 


w $ (li)] 


, 


GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965 / PHALGUNA 8, 1886 


759 


11 , So far as non - compliance with the provisions of section 82 of the Act is 
concerned , a curious objection was taken in paragraph 5 of the written state 
ment of respondent No. 1 that two candidates named Hemant Kumar Choudhary 
and Rajeshwar Patel who had filed nomination papers which were duly accepted 
by the Returning Officer were necessary parties to the petition despite the fact 
that they had actually been joined as respondents , Hemant Kumar Choudhary 
being respondent No. 4 and Rajeshwar Patel respondent No. 5 . Both these res 
pondents have appeared and filed written statements and respondent No. 4 has 
supported the case of the petitioner . They however, withdrew their candidatures 
and an objection has been taken by respondent No. 5 that since they were not 
contesting candidates they were not necessary parties to the petition and that by 
addition of them the provisions of section 82 of the Act have been contravened . 
The petitioner has since filed a petition ( on 12th November , 1962 ) conccding that 
respondent No , 5 was not a necessary or proper party and praying that his name 
might be expunged from the record . It is true that these respondents not being 
contesting candidates were not necessary parties under section 82 ( a ) of the Act . 
but I cannot agree with the view that joinder of these additional parties should 
be treated on the same footing as non - joinder of a necessary party and consider 
ed fatal to the petition under section 90 ( 3 ) of the Act. The failure to join a 
necessary party would be fatal because without such a party the relief claimed 
by the petitioner could not be granted and the Tribunal has no power to allow 
rectification of the defect by amendment of the petition in view of the penal 
provisions of section 90 ( 3 ) of the Act . Joinder of an unnecessary party does 
not, however , affect the relief claimed and cannot therefore be equally fatal to 
the petition , I hold accordingly that the joinder of respondents No. 4 and 5 should 
not be treated as contravention of the mandatory provisions of section 82 ( a ) 
attracting the penalty of dismissal imposed by section 90 ( 3 ) of the Act. Since 
the respondent No. 5 does not want to remain on the record and the petitioner 
has prayed for striking out his name, his name should be atruck out and he will 
get his costs . 

11A . Issue No. 2 . - The first objection on this issue is that the election petition 
has not been properly verified . The verification both of the petition and of the 
annexures is in this form : 

. . . . . . . . do hereby declare that the above statements of this 
petition are true to the best of my knowledge and belief or information ." Section 
83 ( 1 ) ( c ) of the Act provides that an election petition and any schedule or 
annexure thereto should be verified in the manner laid down in the Code of Civil 
procedure for the verification of pleadings and 0 .6 . r . 15 ( 2 ) C . P . C . lays down that a 
person verifying shall specify by reference to the numbered paragraphs of the 
pleadings what he verifics on his own knowledge and what he verifics upon 
information received and believed to be true . It will appear from the above 
verification that the petition and the annexures have not been verified in that 
manner . The petitioner has since ( on 16th October , 1962 ) filed a petition for 
amendment of the verifications and prayed that the verifications contained in 
the said petition might be substituted in place of the original verifications. 
Objection has been taken to this petition but it is now well - settled that a Tribunal 
has jurisdiction to allow the verification to be amended for rectification 
of any defect therein . Reference may be made in this connection to the 
decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Bhikaji Vs. Brij Lal, A . I. R 1955 
S . C . 610 . It has been argued that the new verifications cannot be allowed to be 
substituted in place of the old verifications, but the old verifcations were derec 
tive because they did not specify the paragraphs of the petition and the 
annexures which were true to the knowledge of the petitioner and which were 
true to his information and belief and so if the verifications are to be amended , 
they will necessarily have to be substituted by new verifications specifying the 
paragraphs which are true to the petitioner s knowledge and those which are 
true to his information and belief. This has been done in the verifications con 
tained in the petition for amendment. The amendment will be by substitution 
of these verifications for the defective verifications in the petition and in the 
annexures. The amendment is, therefore, allowed and the verifications men 
tioned in the petition for amendment, dated 16th October, 1962, he substituted in 
place of the original verifications in the petition and the annexures. 


- 


- 


. 


afidavit in terms of the proviso to section 83 ( 1 ) of the Act . There are allega 
tions of corrupt practices in the petition and the proviso requires that in such 
a case the petition shall be accompanied by an affidavit in the prescribed form 
in support of allegations of corrupt practices and the particulars thereof. This 
oroviso is new and was introduced by Act 40 of 1981. No form of the andavit 
was, however , prescribed in 1961 but a notification was published in the Gazette 
of India Extra -ordinary dated February 27, 1962 introducing a new rule , No. 94A , 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1963 / PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 


[PART II 


in the Conduct of Election Rules , 1961, with the Form ( No . 26 ) of this affidavit. 
This Form requires that the corrupt practices should be named in the affidavit 
and that the paragraphs in the petition and the schedules true to knowledge and 
those true to information should be separately sworn to . The affidavit filed with 
the petition in this case is not in this form , The petitioner has only affirmed 
at the end of the petition and the anhexures that the contents of the petition 
are true to his knowledge , information and belief . He has not specified which 
statements are true to his knowledge and which are true to his information and 
belief . The petitioner has since ( on 16th October , 1962) Aled an affidavit in the 
prescribed form and prayed that it might be accepted and treated as part of the 
election petition , but this cannot be done and it would not cure the defect in the 
original petition as filed . There is no provision in the Representation of the 
People Act for curing the defect by a subsequent affidavit ond the Tribunal has 


13 . The question now is what should be the effect of non - compliance with the 
above proviso to section 83 ( 1 ). I have already held in two of the cases before 
me that since non - compliance with the provisions of section 83 has not been 
made penal u / s 90 ( 3 ) of the Act, the proviso cannot be said to be mandatory , 
That is the effect of the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Jagan Nath 
Vs. Jaswant Singh , reported in A . I. R . 1954 S . C . 210 . There the Supreme Court 
observed as follows: - - 


( 1 ) " The general rule is well - scttled that the statutory requirements of elec 
tion law must be strictly observed and that an election contest is not an action 
at law or a suit in equity but is a purely statutory proceeding unknown to the 
common law and that the court possesses no common law power. It is also 
well- settled that it is a sound principle of natural, justice that the success of a 
candidate who has won at an election should not be lightly interfered with and 
any petition seeking such interference must strictly conform to the requirements 
of the law . None of these propositions however has any application , if the 
special law itself confers authority on a Tribunal to proceed with a petition in 
accordance with certain procedure and when it does not state the consequences 
of non - compliance with certain procedural requirements laid down by it . ( 2 ) " It 
is always to be borne in mind that though the election of a successful candidate 
is not to be lightly interfered with , one of the essentials of that law is also to 
safeguard the purity of the election process and also to see that people do not 
get elected by flagrant breaches of that law or by corrupt practices. In cases 
where the election law does not prescribe the consequences or does not lay 
down penalty for non - compliance with certain procedural requirements of that 
law , the jurisdiction of the Tribunal entrusted with the trial of the case is not 
affected ." 


14 . The original Act of 1951 included section 83 in the penal provisions of the 
Act contained in sections 85 and 90 , but by the amendment of 1956 section 83 
was excluded from the said sections. In view of this amendment it must be 
taken that the Legislature did not intend to impose any penalty for non -compli 
ance with the provisions of section 83 . That being the position , on the test laid 
down by the Supreme Court in the above case the proviso in question cannot be 
construed as mandatory and the fact that the affidavit filęd does not correspond 
to the form prescribed by the new rule 94A would not oust the jurisdiction of the 
Tribunal to try the case of corrupt practice . To hold otherwise would be to 
ruji counter to the principle laid down by the Supreme Court in the second 
paragraph of the observations quoted above and would defect one of the essential 
objects of the election law emphasised in that paragraph , viz ., to safeguard the 
purity of the election process and to ensure that people do not get elected by 
fagrant breaches of that law or by corrupt practices. 


15 . I hold accordingly that the proviso in question is not mandatory and that 
the petitioner is not debarred from agitating the question of corrupt practices in 
consequence of non - filing of an affidavit in the prescribed form in support of 
the allegations thereof. 

16 . The next objection is that the election petition is vague and does not con 
tain full or sufficient facts or particulars about the corrupt practices 
alleged therein . In order to meet this objection the petitioner has filed 
( on 16th October , 1962 ) a petition with six annexures containing further particulars 
and prayed that they might be substituted for the original annexures. Objection 
has been taken to this petition on the ground that most of these particulars are 
new and that the Tribunal has no power to accept them by way of amendment 
of the election petition u / s 90 (5 ) of the Act . 


w $ 


, 


GA , , 


OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 , 1965 / PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 


755 


17 . In paragraph 6 of the election petition the first corrupt practice alleged is 
that the respondents No. 1 and 2 their workers and party members deliverea 
speeches falsely indicating the Swatantra Party to which the petitioner belonged , 
exhorting the Muslim voters to vote for the Congress condidate i.e ., respondent 
No. 1 , for their safety and making appeals on the ground of caste . The names of 


enumerated in annexure A . In respect of certain instances, however , it was stated 
that speeches were delivered by the persons named throughout the constituency 
within certain dates , in annexure A of the amendment pečition the names of the 
villages where speeches were delivered by the persons mentioned in annexure 
A of the election with dates have been separately enumerated . It also contains 
petition all the instances cnumerated in the original annexure A together with 
certain new instances of delivery of speeches not mentioned therein . 10 these 
particularly objection has been taken on behalf of respondent No. 1. 

18 . Section 90 (5 ) lays down that " the Tribunal may . . . . allow the particulars 
of any corrupt practice allaged in the petition to be amended or anipiined . . . ., 
but shall not allow any amendment of the petition which will have the effect of 
introducing particulars of a corrupt practice not previously allegea in tne petiwon " . 
Reference was made on behalt Ur Lore petitioner to the decisiun or ine Supreme 


S . C . 444 , in which it was held that the Tribunal has authority to allow an amena 
ment even when that involves inclusion of new instances , provided they relate to 
a charge contained in the election petition and that it would be competent to the 
Tribunal to allow an amendment giving for the first time instances of a corrupt 
practice, provided such corrupt practice has been made a ground of attack in the 
petition . This decision was given under the ola Act when the power VI amend 
ment was contained in section 63 ( 3 ) of the Act and was wordea differently from 
the present section 90 ( 5 ) . The old section 83 ( 3 ) allowed the particulars of any 
corrupt practice included in the list required to be hled by the petitioner under 
section 83 ( 2 ) to be amended and the Tribunal was also empowered to order further 
and better particulars in regard to any matter referred to therein to be furnished . 
The present section 90 ( 5 ) does not contain the words further the better parti 
culars , but it gives the Tribunal power to allow the particulars of any corrupt 
practice alleged in the petition to be not only amended but also amplified — the 
only limitation being that no amendment should be allowed whicn will have the 
effect of introducing particulars of a corrupt practice not previously alleged in the 
petition . There seems to be nothing in this section to debar the petitioner from 
furnishing new _ instances of a corrupt practice alleged in the petitiun by way of 
amplification . This section was considered in a decision of the Mysore High Court 
in the case of Sangappa Vs. Shivamurti, reported in A . I. R . 1958 Mysore 120 , and 
it was held there that " amplification " means the act of increasing or enlarging 
and that it the word " particulars" in the section means " instances" , as was held by 
the Supreme Court in the case of Harish Chandra Vs. Triloki Singh in respect of 
the same word used in section 83 ( 3 ) , then when it is said that instances of corrupt 
practice may be amplified it means that such instances may be increased or, in 
other words , more instances can be given of such corrupt practice . It was further 
held that the words " not previously alleged in the petition " occurring in section 
00 ( 6 ) refer to " corrupt practice" and not to " particulars" and that the effect of 
section 90 ( 5 ) is that if a corrupt practice has been alleged then further instances 
of such corrupt practice can be given , but that if a corrupt practice has not been 
alleged in the petition , then by trying to give particulars of a corrupt practice 
which has been alleged , particulars of a corrupt practice which has not been 
alleged cannot be introduced , I cannot, threrefore, accept the contention that tiew 
instances of the first corrupt practice alleged in the petition of which some in 
stances were given in the original annexure A cannot be furnished by way of 
amendment and amplification under section 90 ( 5 ) . The objection to the new in 
stances in annexure A of the petition for amendment is therefore over - ruled . The 
other instances are merely repetitions of the instances mentioned in the original 
annexure A with more specific dtails by way of amplification to which no objec 
tion can be taken . 


ment petition not only in respect of annexure A but in respect of other annexures 
also . These words are " at the instance of respondent No. 1" and " on behalf of 
respondent No. 1 at his instance" . These words did not occur in the election 
petition or in the annexures thereto . There the words used were " on behalf of 
or " in the interest of" rspondent No. 1 or " with his knowledge and connivance " . 
It has been contended that by introduction of these words the petitioner has sought 
to make out a new case , since under section 100 ( 1 ) ( b ) of the Act if any corrupt 
practice has been committed by a returned candidate or his election agent or by 
any other person with the consent of a returned candidate or his election agent, 
then the election shall be declared void , but under section 100 ( 1 ) ( d ) ( ii ) if any 


756 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965 / PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 


(PART II 


corrupt practice has been committed in the interests of the returned candidate by 
an agent other than his election agent, then it will have to be shown for getting 
the election declared void that the result of the election , in so far as it conerns 
the returned candidate , has been materially affected by that corrupt practice . This 
objection should succeed and such words in the amendment petition as were not 


thereto will have to be ignored at the trial of the case in considering the question 
whether the case alleged comes under section 100 ( 1 ) ( b ) or under section 100 ( 1 ) 
( d ) (ii) of the Act. 

20 . In paragraph 7 of the election petition it was alleged that the Congress 
party workers , agents of respondent No. 1, distributed to his knowledge and con 
nivance leaflets casting heinous and false aspersions on the character of the peti 
tioner and three instances of such printed leaflets were given in annexure B to the 
petition without mentioning the names of persons who distributed them and when 
and where . In annexure B to the petition for amendment the names of the 
distributors of these three leaflets or pamphlets with dates and places of distribu 
tion have been furnished and the pamphlets themselves which were not Alled with 
the election petition have been filed . This is merely an amplification of the parti 
culars of the corrupt practice alleged in the petition by supplying names and dates 
and I do not find any legitimate ground for objection to such additional parti 
culars . My attention was drawn to a decision of the Madras High Court in the 
case of T , L . Sasivarna Thevar Vs. V . Arunagiri, reported in 17 E .L . R . 313 , in 
which allegations of obstruction of voters and assault on workers by the followers 


out mentioning the names of the offenders and subsequent amendment supplying 
the names of the offenders was disallowed on the ground that it would create a 
new charge . With respect I am unable to follow this decision in view of the 
authorities already cited . Supplying of names cannot be said to amount to formu 
lation of a new charge . With regard to the objection taken to the filing of the 
pamphlets with the amendment petition it should be noted that these are printed 
pamphlets and that the names of the printers and publishers were given in 
annexure B to the election petition Reference was made in this connection to a 
decision of the Assam High Court , reported in A . I. R . 1958 Assam 97 ( Bishwanath 
Vs. Haralal ) in which a copy of a newspaper alleged in the election petition to 
have been distributed by the returned candidate was allowed to be filed subse 
quently . I therefore allow the pamphlets to be filed with the petition for amend 
ment as part thereof. The statements, however , as to whether they were distribut 
ed at the instance of respondent No. 1, if not in the election petition , will have to 
be disregarded . 

21. In paragraph 8 of the election petition it was stated that respondent No . 1 
got printed one booklet of songs called “ Jawane K Hawa" containing bitter songs 
against Swatantra Party and its leaders in village dialect and that his agents and 
workers distributed it in the whole constituency and the songs were sung on loud 
speakers . In annexure C were mentioned the names of the writer, the publisher 
and the printer of the booklet . The names of the distrubutors or singers were 
not, however , mentioned . In annexure C of the amendment petition , the names 
of the distributors with dates and names of villages have been mentioned. This is 
also an amplification of the particulars mentioned in annexure C to the election 
petition and hence no objection can be taken to this amendment of that annexure . 

22 . In paragraph 9 of the election petition it was mentioned that certain 
corrupt practices enumerated in annexure D were employed during election by the 
Congress and the workers , agents of respondent No. 1 to his full knowledge and 
the enumeration in annexure D included hiring of bullock carts for carrying voters , 
bribery of Harijan yoters and certain inducements offered by respondent No. 1 
and his agents . In respect of the first item no names or details were mentioned 
and in respect of the second item only the names of certain Harijan voters alleged 
to have been bribed with dates were mentioned in the said annexure. In respect 
of the inducements offered by respondent No. 1 and his agents certain instances 
like donations, promises and promotion of schools were enumerated without eny 
names . In annexure D of the amendment petition the ridmes of the owners of the 


with the names of the villages and the dates have been supplied . The amendment 
proposed in respect of this item is thus merely an amplification of the particulars 
mentioned in the orignal annexure D and is therefore in order . Next, some in 
stances of hiring of rickshaws have been enumerated in annexure D of the 
amendment petition with the names of the polling agents who hired them and the 
dates and the names of the polling booths to which the voters were carried there 
by . Objection has been taken that the hiring of rickshaws not having been men 
tioned in annexure D of the election petition cannot now be introduced . It is true 
that in the said annexure this item was not mentioned , but in paragraphs 14 and 


SEC. (ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 , 1985 / PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 


757 


15 of the election petition itself several instances of hiring of rickshaws by the 
polling agents of respondent No. 1 for carrying voters to the polling booths were 
mentioned together with the dates and the names of the polung agents and the 
polling booths. The very same instances of hiring of rickshaws with all the details 
mentioned in paragraphs 14 and 15 have now been enumerated in annexure D to 
the petition for amendment and it has been explained that this has been done 
because the instances should have been mentioned in the annexure and not in the 
body of the petition . The old section 83 ( 2 ) of the Act required the particulars of 
a corrupt practice to be set out in a separate list but under the new section 83 ( 1 ) 
( b ) no such separate list is necessary and the particulars may be set out in the 
petition itself. However , when annexurey have been filed with the petition it in 
better that all such particulars should be embodied therein . This is what the 
amendment proposes to do . There is, therefore , no point in the objection raised . 
It has, however , been stated in the petition for amendment that all these con 
veyances were hired at the instance of respondent No . 1 and his election agent. 
This statement is not in the election petition and should , therefore , be disregarded . 

23 . With regard to the item of bribery of Harijan voters whose names were 
mentioned in annexure D to the election petition , annexure D to the petition for 
amendment mentions the names of the person or persons who bribed each of 
them together with the amounts of money paid as bribe and the dates of payment. 


corrupt practice alleged by way of amplification . The additional particulars given 
in respect of the original instances are also justified by way of ampliacation . The 
further statement that all these instances of bribery " were at the instance of 
respondent No. 1 himself or his election and other agents with his connivance " 
should , however , be disregarded as it is at variance with the statement in the 
election petition . 

24 . Curiously enough item ( k ) of instances of bribery in annexure D to the 
petition for amendment mentions a bribe of Rs. 5 ,000 paid by respondent No. 1 to 
respondent No. 5 Rajeshwar Patel for withdrawal of his candidature on 22nd 
January , 1962. No such allegation was made in the election petition and the peti 
tioner himself has, as already stated , prayed that the name of respondent No. 5 
should be expunged . This item of annexure D to the petition for amendment, 
should , therefore , be struck out . 

25 . Under the head of inducements offered by respondent No, 1 certain in 
stances of opening of schools , payment or promise of grants - in - aid to schools , 
raising of or promise to raise schools to higher standards and donation to a library 
have been mentioned in annexure D to the petition for amendment together with 
the names of the persons who were concerned therein and dates and the amount 
of donation to the library . The items were there in the original annexure D but 
the names and other particulars were wanting. These details have now been sup 
plied in annexure D to the petition for amendment by way of amplification and 
they are therefore in order . A promise by respondent No . I to construct a bridge 
over a river is also mentioned in this annexure under the head of inducement. 
This was not mentioned in annexure D to the election petition but was mentioned 
in the petition itselt in paragraph 10 . This has now been included in the annexure 
where it should properly belong . There is an additional head of undue influence in 
the proposed amendment under which have been enumerated instances of threaten 
ing of voters and polling agents of the petitioner by the election agents and workers 
of respondent No. 1 These instances were not enumerated in annexure D to the 
election petition but they were mentioned in paragraph 17 of the petition itself. 
There can therefore be no objection to this item in annexure D to the amendment 
petition 

26 . In paragraph 11 of the election petition it was stated that during election 
Government vehicles and Government requisitioned vehicles on election duty were 
used by respondent No. 1 for carrying people to his election meeting and in 
annexure E to the petition the particulars of these vehicles with car numbers and 
date were mentioned. In annexure E to the petition for amendment the very 
same vehicle numbers and statement have been repeated without addition of any 
new particulars . This annexure does not therefore require any amendment. 

27 . In paragraph 18 of the election petition it was stated that the account sub 
mitted by respondent No . 1 ( under section 78 of the Act) was wrong and incor 
rect and that he had left out many expenses incurred by him and had spent more 
than the limit fixed by law . No annexure was, however, Alled with regard to this 
charge and no particulars of suppressed expenditure were furnished in the petition , 
A new annexure F has now been Aled with the petition for amendment and in it 
26 items of expenses totalling Rs. 1, 70 , 649: 15 Np. have been enumerated as having 
been incurred by respondent No. 1 for the purpose of the election and suppressed 


758 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965 / PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 


[PART 11 


by him from the account lodged with the returning officer , Serious objection has 
been taken to this annexure and it has been contended that since no particulars 
were furnished in the election petition in respect of this charge , as required by 
section 83 ( 1 ) ( b ) of the Act , the petitioner cannot now be alloweu lo incioguce 
these items of expenses for the first time by way of amenament or amplucation , 
The argument is that it is only " the particuiars of any corrupt practice alleged in 
the petition " which can be amended or amplified under section yu ( 5 ) of the Açt 
and that if there are no particulars or instances of the alleged corrupt practice in 
the petition , no question of amendment or amplification of non - existent particulary 
can arise . It is true that this charge stands on a somewhat aitferent rooting from 
ne umer charges of corrupt practice in the election petition because in respect 
of them some particulars or instances were furnished either in the body of the 
petition or in the annexures thereto which could be amended and amplified by the 
nudition of more details or new instances, but I think that the decision or the 
Supreme Court in the case of Harish Chandra Vs. Triloki Singn , cited above is 
comprehensive enough to include such a case also . 


28 . In that case there was a charge in the election petition that the returned 
candidates could in furtherance of their election enlist the support of certain 
Government servants who were not, however , named and the nature of the support 
was not explained . No list setting forth the full particulars or this charge was 
fied with the petition . Subsequently the petitioner prayed for permission to 
amend the paragraph by adding the words " Village Headmen ” with their naines 
and the fact that they worked and issued appeal and eventually became the polling 
agents or the returned candidates. The Supreme Court here that even where nu 
list had been filed , as required by section 83 ( 2 ) of the then Act, it would be 
competent to the Tribunal to allow an amenament giving for the first time in 
stances of corrupt practice , provided such corrupt practice has been made a 
ground of attack in the petition . As alreauy slated , the law has not been changed 
in any substantial manner by the enactment OI section 90 ( 5 ) in place of the old 
section 83 ( 3 ) and the Tribunal s power of allowing amendment has not been 
curtailed excepting that the limitation of the power enunciated in the last sentence 
or the observation of the Supreme Court just quoted has been embodied in the 
section . So, it instances of a corrupt practice which has been alleged in the peti 
tion could for the first time be introduced by way of furnishing further and better 
particulars under old section 83 ( 3 ) , they can as well be introduced by way of 
amendment and amplification under section 90 ( 5 ) of the present Act. 

29 . I hold accordingly that the petitioner is entitled to have the election 
petition amended by the introduction of the particulars enumerated in annexure F 
to the amendment petition . Subject to the reservations mentioned in this order 
the prayer for amendment be allowed and the annexures A to C , annexure D with 


to D being substituted in place of the original annexures A to D to the election 
petition . In view of these amendments it can be no longer maintained that the 
charges of corrupt practice in the petition are vague or without full and sufficient 
particulars . 

30. The respondents No. 1 and 5 then moved the High Court of Patna under 
Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution against this order and the High Court 
admitted their petitions and granted a stay of further proceedings. Proceedings 
were thereupon stayed on 7th February 1963. On 21st May 1903 orders were re 
ceived from the High Court of Patna vacating the stay orders and directing the 
Tribunal to proceed with the further hearing of the case , though the applications 
were not disposed of. The trial of the case was taken up thereafter on 19th 
August 1963 and proceeded with till 29th November 1963 when after examination 
of 97 witnesses for the petitioner further trial was adjourned pending decision of 
the High Court in the matter of the amendments allowed by me which had been 
challenged in the writ petitions not yet disposed of in order to prevent any possi 
ble prejudice. Eventually the writ petitions were withdrawn by respondents 
No. 1 and 5 and intimation to that effect was received on 20th March 1963. The 
trial of the case was resumed thereafter and concluded on 25th November 1964. 
124 witnesses were examined for the petitioner and 91 witnesses, for the respon 
dent No. 1. The other respondents did not appear at the trial. 

31. Before I proceed to the consideration of the next issue, viz ., issue No. 3 , 
I should refer again to the affidavit Aled by the petitioner in terms of the proviso 
to Sec . 83 ( 1 ) of the R . P . Act because at the time of Anal argument It was urged 
by the learned Advocate for the respondent No. 1 that the Tribunal should refuse 
to consider the evidence adduced regarding the alleged corrupt practices in the 
absence of a proper afhdavit. Roference was made in this connection to a recent 


w . . . 


. . 27, 


. AL 


AB, 1886 


759 


decision of the Madhya Pradesh High Court in the case of Dwarka Prasad Mishra 
vs. Kamalnarain Sharma, repoitca in A , 1 , n . 1964 Madhya Pradesh 273, in which 
It was neld that the requirement of the aloresaid proviso is mandatory and that 
in the absence of a proper affluavit in terms of the proviso the allegations of 
corrupt practices cannot be enquired into . 11 was further held that the defect 
could not be cured by permitting the petitioner to Ale a fresh affidavit . In my 
order on the preliminary issues already quoted I had taken the view that the 
proviso was not mandatory and that the petitioner was not debarred from agitat 
ing the question of corrupt practices in consequence of the no11 - 111ng of an athaayit 
in the prescribed forni which would not have the effect ousting the jurisdiction 
of the Tribunal to try the question . Though this view of mine was challengea 
by a writ petition filed in the High Court of Patna , the petition was uitimately 
withdrawn and hence there could not be any decision of the High Court on the 
question in this particular case . There has, however , been a decision of the said 
High Court in another case before me in which also I had taken the same view 
regarding this proviso and aguinst which a writ petition nad been filed . This 
was M . J . Case No . 905 of 1962 (Mahesh Prosad Sinha Vs. Manjay Lal) decided 
on 30th August 1963. In that case the High Court while upholding my view that 
the proviso was not mandatory but directory held that any defect or irregularity 
in toe affidavit required rectification and directed me to require the petitioner of 
that case to file another affidavit in the prescribed form or in the form in which it 
had already been filed after removing the defects therefrom . As already stated , 
the petitioner in the instant case tied a fresh affidavit on 16th October 1962 and 
prayed that this affidavit might bo placed on the record . That affidavit is in pro 
per form mentioning separately the statements in the election petition with 
reference to paragraphs which are true to his knowledge and those which are true 
to his faformation derived froni his election agent which he believes to be true. 
Though I had refused to accept this affidavit in the view that the Tribunal had 
no power to allow the defect in the affidavit to be cured by a subsequent affidavit , 
the above decision of the Patna High Court makes it clear that such defect can 
be cured by a fresh affidavit. A proper affidavit being , therefore, on the record , 
the question can no longer be raised about the Tribunal s jurisdiction to try the 
case of corrupt practices. Though the Madhya Pradesh High Court appears to 
have taken a different view on the point in the case cited , I am bound to follow 
the above decision of the Patna High Court . 


32 . Issue No. 3 — This issue relates to the different kind of corrupt practices 
alleged in the election petition which cover practically all the sub - sections of 
Section 123 of the Act , though all of them were not pressed at the trial. The 
first of such corrupt practices alleged in annexure D to the election petition relates 
to bribery of Harijany for giving votes to respondent no. 1 on 17th , 20th , 22nd 
and 24th February 1962, by respondent no. 1 and his election agent and polling 
agents . Nine names were mentioned in the said annexure with the names of their 
respective villages and from the way they were mentiond it would appear that 
the petitioner s case was that the said nine persons were bribed . The names of 
the agents who bribed these persons were not, however , mentioned in this 
annexure . These names were given in the amendment petition ( annexure D 
Item no. 3 ) with the amount paid by each to one or other of the persons named 
in the original annexure D . All the persons named in the original annexure - D 
excepting one have been examined and they have deposed that they received the 
respective sums mentioned in the amended annexure D from the persons named 


respondent no . 1 . They do not say that they were the voters who were bribed , 
but they say that they received these sums for distribution amongst Harijan voters 
of their respective localities and that they distributed the same to a large number 


amended annexure D has it been suggested that these sums were paid or received 
for distribution amongst others . On the other hand the language used in both 
suggests definitely that the recepients of these sums were the voters who were 
bribed . Not one of the Harijan voters amongst whom these sums are alleged 
to have been distributed has been named by the witnesses or examined . There 
is also no means of knowing whether such persons were actually voters or Hari 
jans, as alleged . 


33 . It has accordingly been complained on behalf of the respondent no . 1 that 
the petitioner has sought to make out a new case and it has been contended that 
such a charge of bribery cannot be established without disclosure of the names 
of the persons who were actually bribed and without proof not only of the fact 
that they were bribed but also of the fact that they were voters, Sub - sec , ( 1 ) of 


760 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965 / PHAL , A8, 


[ 10 


Sec. 123 lays down that any gift, offer or promise of any gratification by a candi 
date or his agenţ etc ., will constitute the corrupt practice of bribery , only if it is 
made with the object , directly or indirectly , of inducing an elector to vote or 
refrain from voting . Where the charge is that bribes were paid to certain voters 
to induce them to vote for a particular candidate , certainly the names of the voters 
80 Induced must be mentioned and proof must be glyen of their having received 
the bribes . The learned Advocate for respondent no. 1 referred in this connection 
to a decision of the Patna High Court in the case of Chandra Sekhar Singh Vs. 
Sarjoo Prasad Singh , reported in A . I. R . 1961 Patna 189, in which it was laid down 
that particulars of a corrupt practice alleged in the election petition must neces 
sarily include the names of the electors alleged to have been subjected to such 
corrupt practice . This , it was held , followed from the use of the word " including" 
in Cl. (b ) of Sec . 83 ( 1 ) of the Act which indicated that the names of the parties 
alleged to have committed the corrupt practice did not exhaust the list of the 
names of the parties to be given in the particulars. This case related to 
a corrupt practice under sub . sec . ( 2 ) of sec . 123 , but another unreported 
decision of the Patna High Court given in M . J . Case no . 36 of 1954 (Chandreswar 
Vs. Basuprasad ) has been referred to and a certified copy of the judgment Aled 
( Ex . 1 ) which related to the corrupt practice of bribery . It was argued in this 
case that it was not necessary to state in the particulars who had taken the bribe 
and that all that was required was to state who had given the bribe . This view 
was negatived and it was held that it was essential that the names of the persons 
who received the bribes should also be mentioned in the particulars in order to 
ensure a fair and effectual trial of the case. This decision was also referred to 


learned Advocate for the petitioner to get over the effect of these decisions by 
referring to the principle laid down by the Supreme Court in the case of Bhagwan 
Datta Shastri V8. Ram Ratanji Gupta, A . I. R . 1960 Supreme Court 200 , that where 
notwithstanding the absence of particulars the evidence is allowed to be given 
and taken the question would not be one of absence of jurisdiction of the Tribunal 
to try the matter but as to whether there has been any material prejudice 
occasioned by the absence of particulars. It cannot, however, be said that there 
has been no prejudice in this case , because not only were the names of the Hart 
jan voters actually bribed not disclosed in the annexure original or amended , 
but they have not been disclosed even in the evidence . If their names had been 
disclosed , the respondent no . 1 could have examined them to deny that they 
received any bribe. In any case , the authorities cited are clear that the corrupt 
practice of bribery cannot be proved without evidence being given of the particular 
electors who were so bribed . 


34 . The learned Advocate for respondent no . 1 Anally argued that though the 
witnesses examined by him have deposed that they distributed the sums received 
by them amongst unnamed Harijan voters, they have also stated that they deduct 
ed a share for themselves and that this is sufficient to prove bribing of at least 
those persons amongst them who are Harijans. The Harijan witnesses who have 
deposed to such distribution of bribes after retaining a share for themselves are 
P . W . 4 Jamuna Sad , P . W . 5 Panchelal Methar, P . W . 10 Khakkar Paswan and 
P . W . 11 Ganga Paswan all of whom have been named in the original annexuro 
D . Of the other witnesses examined on this point PWS, 3, 12 and 67 are Brahmins 
and P . W . 69 is a Yadav by caste . Two of them said that they had retained some 
moneys in their hands but it does not appear from their evidence that they 
retained the same as bribes and in any case they are not Harijans. P . W . 4 who 
belongs to the Musahar community of Harijans has said that one Rajendra Singh 
asked him to persuade the Musahar voters of his locality to vote for respondent 
no . 1 and one day before the polling paid him Rs. 250 / - out of which he retained 
Rs. 26 / - for himself and distributed the balance at the rate of Rs. 2 / - per head . 
He was paid the money in 10 rupee notes but he has not explained how or when 
he change these notes and distributed the money at the rate of Rs. 2 / - per head , 
He is a day labourer and his statement is absolutely uncorroborated . No evidence 
has been given about the identity of Rajendra Singh and it has not been shown 
that he was an agent of the respondent no . 1 and was authorised by him to pay 
this money . P . W . 5 who belongs to Kalyanpur has said that 10 days before the 
polling he had been approached by Banwari Babu , son of respondent no. 1, and 
one Gobardhan Bhai Patel with a request to vote for respondent no . 1 and that 
one day before polling at 8 pm . In the night he was paid Rs, 150 / - by them at 
his house for inducing the Methar voters to vote for the sald respondent. He dis 
tributed the sum on the same night at the rate of Rs. 2 / - per head retaining 
Rs. 12 ) - for himself . It has been argued that his evidence has been carrohorated 


761 


Sec . 3 (il)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1985 /PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 


in a way by P . W . $ 67 and 69 who are also from the same village Kalyanpur and 
who have deposed that on the same night Banwari Babu had been to their houses 
and paid them Rs. 500 / - and Rs. 100 / - respectively for distribution amongst 


has not explained how he came to know Gobardhan Bhai Patel who lives at 
Samastipur about 12 miles off. He has also not stated that he was a leader of 
Methar community and no reason has been alleged why he should have been 
approached , if two other apparently more influential persons of the village had 


that he distributed money amongst Harijans at the rate of Rs. 5 / - per head and 
P . W . 69 has said that he distributed it at the rate of Rs. 4 / - per head . It is 
difficult to believe a story like this of three different persons distributing bribes 
amongst the same class of voters at such varying rates as Rs. 2 / -, Rs. 4 / - and 
Rs. 5 / - per head . Such distribution would have defeated its very purpose . Both 
Banwari Babu and Gohardhan Bhai Patel ( R . W 27) have denied the story , 


election , P . W . 10 Khakkar Paswan of Sahlt has said that on the night before 
polling one Trinit Singh paid him Rs. 100 / - out of which he retained Rs. 20 / 
and distributed the balance amongst voters at the rate of Rs. 2 / - per head . Tripit 
Singh ( R . W , 59 ) has denied the story and stated that P . W . 10 is a sepoy in the 
employment of the petitioner , Tripit Singh was a congress worker but it has not 
been shown that he was an agent of respondent No . 1 . P . W . 11 Ganga Paswan of 
Pagra has deposed that he received Rs, 200 / - from one Nem Narain Singh on the 
evening before polling and that he retained Rs. 50 / - for himself and distributed 
the balance at the rate of Rs. 2 / - per head . His evidence has been corroborated , 
so far as payment hy Nem Narain is concerned , by P . W . 13 who has added that 
half an hour before this payment Banwari Babu had heen to the house of Nem 
Narain and paid him Rs. 500 / - in his presence. This witness admitted that he 
had canvassed for the petitioner during the election and it is therefore impossible 
to believe that Banwari Babu would have paid any amount meant for bribing 
voters in his presence . The witness is obviously interested . It has not been 
proved that Nem Narain was an agent of respondent No. 1 . He is dead but his 
son (RW . 46 ) has denied that Banwari Babu ever came to his house and paid 
Rs. 500 / - to his father or that his father paid Rs. 200 / - to P . W . 11. The latter , 
according to him , worked for the petitioner during election . Banwari Babu has 
algo denied the story of payment to Nem Narain . There are other witnesses for 
the respondent No. 1 who have denied the story of bribing of Harijan voters in 
any of the above villages . In these circumstances I cannot believe the evidence 
of these witnesses and hold this charge proved . Following the derision of the 
Supreme Court in the case of Harls Chandra V8. Triloki Singh , A . I. R . 1957 S .C . 
444. It has been repeatedly laid down in judicial decisions that a charge of corrupt 
practice is quasi - criminal in character and should be proved beyond reasonable 
doubt by unlmpcachable evidence , as in a criminal trial, and I cannot hold that 
the evidence consisting , as it is , of the uncorroborated testimonies mainly of the 
bribe- takers themselves is of that character . 

35 . The petitioner has alleged in para 10 of the election petition that other temp 
tations were also held out to the voters by respondent No , 1 himself to induce 
them to vote for him and that one such temptation was held out to the voterg of 
village Chandsurarl where he addressed a meeting on 8th February 1962 and pro 
mised to construct a bridge over a river there at his own cost and in part fulfil 
ment of that promise laid the foundation of the bridge on the river bank . The 
petitioner has examined four witnesses on this point, 2017 .. P . W . 83 Ramgulam 
Singh , P . W . 84 Sirillal Mehto , P . W . 85 Jaddu Misra and P . W , 94 Ramsarup Singh . 
Their evidence is that the respondent No . 1 came to Chandsurari by Jeep 10 days 
before the polling which took place in this village on 18th February , 1962. met 
about 125 people . promised to have a bridge constructed over the rlver Baluhai 
at his own cost to remove their diMculties of transport and immediately after 
wards went to the river bank and laid the foundation of the bridge with bricks and 
Ilme. He then came to a library where 500 /600 people had collected and appealed 
to them in a long speech to vote for him because of his promise to construct the 
bridge at his own cost. According to this evidence , the respondent No. I volun 
tarily offered to construct the bridge and went to the river bank to lay its founda 
tion without being asked by anybody to do so . P . W . 84 s evidence is that the res 
pondent No. I dug a hole on the river bank with his own hands and himself put 
In 25 or 30 hricks which were brought under his orders from a neighbouring 
brick -feld . P . W . 85, however , saw a mason waiting there who dug the hole and 
placed the bricks. There is also discrepancy amongst the witnesses as to how the 
respondent No. 1 went to the river bank , whether on foot or by jeep . Apart from 
these discrepancies, the whole story sounds improbable and even absurd . There is 
no evidence that any memorial or appeal had been addressed to respondent No . 1 


762 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965 / PHALGUNA 8. 1886 


[PART II 


by the people of that locality at any time emphasising the necessity for such a 
bridge. There is a bridoe two miles off as is admitted by the witnesses, Nobody 
has said that on his visit to the village or at the meeting anybody referred to this 
matter or requested the respondent No . 1 to get a bridee constructed for them 
or to lay the foundation therefor . The evidence on the other hand is that he did 
all this voluntarily on the spur of the moment. Construction of a bridge on a 
river requires a huge outlay. It is difficult to believe that a responsible person 
like the respondent No . 1 who has been a Minister of the Central Government for 
several years would have made such a promise , when he could have easily said 
that he would ask the local authorities or the Government for the removal of 
their grievance , and to suggest that he then and there went to the river bank on 
his own motion and arranged for brick and materials and laid the foundation ot 
the bridge. without A gcheme or an estimate having been prepared beforehand , is 
simply mhildish . It is admitted that there was a bridge in this village which only 
required repairs having been broken 4 or 5 years back and so there was no neces 
sity for a new bridge . It has not been alleged that this area was so hostile to the 
respondent No. 1 that a dramatic gesture like this was necessary to win over the 
people . The respondent No. 1 has denied that he made anv such promise at the 
meeting and did not remember to have gone to the river hank . The meeting took 
place on the grounds of a llbrary and the secretary of the library has been examin 
ed hy the respondent No . 1 ( R . W . 17 ) as also the person who presided over the 
meeting ( R . W . 19 ) . They as also R . W . 18 have denied that there was any reference 
to the construction of a bridge in the speerh of respondent No . 1 or that any 
foundation laying ceremony was undertaken by him . There was a ceremony in 
the library the building of which he opened . According to these witnesses. In these 
circumstances. I cannot believe the petitioner s case about this item of corrupt 
practice . 

36 . Evidence was also given hv the netitioner that at other meeting at village 
Panr hold about 10 or 12 days before the polling the respondent No . 1 appealed 
to the Muslim voters to vote for the congregs and stated that If any other partv 
came to power, they would have to go to Pakistan . With regard to this item of 
corrunt practice . It was only stated in para 6 of the election netition that the res 
ponrient No . 1 and his workers and partymen exhorted the Muslim voters to vote 
for the congress on the ground that they were only safe in the hands of the congress 
The particulars of the places where such propaganda was made were cnumerated 
in Annexure A but village Panr was not mentioned there. In the amended 
Annexure A village Panr was mentioned as item No . 4 , the date of the ineeting 
was given as 11th February , 1942 and the resnondent No . 1 was mentioned as the 
only nerson resnonsible for such propaganda Seven witnesses have deposed to this 
meeting , viz ., PW3, 24, 27 , 30 , 31, 32 , 33 and 78 . two of whom are Muslims; vix .. 
P . W . 30 Mustaque Ahmed and PW . 78 Anwarul Had The learned Advocate for 
the petitioner relied more upon the evidence of the Muslim witnesses because the 
appeal was addressed to them and as regards the others referred to them as cor 
roborative witnesses. The exact words used at the meeting have not been repro 
duced by anv witnega . No notes were made and they obviously could not remem 
her the words spoken . Their evidence in general is that the respondent No . 1 in 
his speech praised the congress and then called upon the Muslims to vote for 
congress as the congress had always helped and supported them in the past. 
Thereatter he is said to have expressed the oninion that if any other party name 
into power , the Muslims might have to go to Pakistan . This last statement, as al 
teady stated , is not mentioned in para 6 of the election netition It does not also 
occur in the amended Annexure A . Te the respondent No. 1 appealed to the Muslim 
voters to suidoost the congress because the congress had helped and gerver them . 
guch appeal would not constitute corrupt rartice. This is conceded by the learned 
advorate for the petitioner but he argued that the statement that it any other 
nartv came to nower , the Muslims mirht have to go to Pakistan amounted to In 
direct interference , or attempt to interfere . with the free exercise of the electoral 

toht hy the Muslim voters within the meaning of sub - section ( 2 ) of sertion 123 of 
the Act. The learned Advocate for the respondent No. 1. however, argued that 
such a statement. even if made , would not constitute corrupt practice under this 
sub -section , as it should be construed to be a reference to the policy and programme 
of other parties as contrasted with the policy and programme of the congress . 
In any case , it is not clear from the evidence of the witnesses that this statement was 
made as an inducement to the Muslims to vote for the congress because they had 
already been appealed to vote for the congress on the ground of what the con 
gregs had done for them . The main question , however, is whether such a state 
ment was made at all. The respondent No. 1 did not deny that he addressed a 
meeting at Panr. though he did not exart ] v remom her the meeting. hut he empha 
tically denied that he addressed the Muslims in the manner stated by the wit 
nesseq . P . W . 30 has stated that after the meeting he was introduced to the respond 
ent No. 1 who appealed to him personally to support him in the same terms in 


Sec. $ (il) ] 


THĘ GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965 / PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 


269 


which he expressed himself at the meeting . This also the respondent No . 1 has 
denied . Respondent s witness No. 43 who attonded the meeting denied that there 
was any talk between the respondent No 1 and P . W . 30 after the meeting , HA and 
also R . W . 44 who attended the meeting have denied that the respondent No . I had 
appealed to the Muslims in the manner suggested . In these circumstances , very 
strict proof is necessary that such a statement was actually made . In the absence 
of precise evidenan about the exact words used and the context in which they 
were used , it would be most unsafe to rely upon the recollection of ordinary 
villagers like these as to what was said , specially when there is no reference to 
the obiected statement and even no mention of the meeting at the Panr in the 
election petition . It does not appear from the evidence that Panr WAS å predo 
minantly Muslim locality , that the meeting was largelv attended by Muslims and 
that there was any special reason or occasion for an appeal in these terms. The 
respondent No. 1 as a responsible Minister of the Central Government cannot be 
helieved to have irresponsiblv hold out such threats to the Muslims. In the cir 
cumstances . I am unable to rely upon the petitioner s witnesses and hold that any 
corrupt practice under sub -sertion ( 2 ) of sertion 123 was committed by the reg 
pondent No. 1 in respect of his address at the meeting held at Panr, 

37. In the same para 6 of the election petition it was further alleged that the 
respondent No. 1 committed the corrupt practice of canvassing voters on the 
ground of caste and evidence has been adduced that, being himself a Rajput by 
caste , he appealed to Rainut voters to vote for him on caste basis at two places 
where he addressed meetings, piz ., at Mirzapur and at Sahit. A meeting at 
Sahit on 11th February. 1962 is mentioned in the original Annexure A but the 
meeting at Mirzapur is not mentioned there . It is, however , mentioned in the 
amended Annexure A in which Mirzapur And Pans have been bracketed together 
under date 11th February , 1962. That the andeal was addressed specially to 
Rajput voters was not mentioned anywhere . The respondent No. 1 s evidence 
is that there wAS no meeting at Mirzapur where he was detained by some 
villagers on his way to the meeting at Sahit and that he mot down from his car 
for a few minutes and visited a school where he was welcomed and garlanded . 
He has denied that he addressed any meeting there . Three witnesses for the 
petitioner , vie., PWs. 15 , 18 and 77 , hava deposed ahout this meeting. Their 
evidence . however , is that the restondent No. 1 protested against the petitioner s 
apneal to the Bhumihars to vote for him because he was a Bhumihar and then 
said that in this situation the Rajput should support him . Thev have not speci 
Acally stated that he appealed to the Rajputs to support him hecause he was a 
Raſput or on cagte basis . The respondent No. 1 was admittedly accompanied bv 
R . W , 16 Rameswar Singh . an Advocate of Samastipur. and he and also R .WS, 37 
And 67 have supported his statement that there was no meeting at Mirzapur and 
that he did not make any caste appeal to the Rajputs there . I cannot consider 
the witnesses for the petitioner to be more reliable than the respondent No. 1 s 
witnesgos and accept their testimony . specially when this meeting was not men 
tioned in the original Annexure A . About the meeting at Sahit held on the 
same day the evidence of the petitioner s witnesses is different. P .Ws. 17 , 38 and 
39 have deposed to this meeting and stated that the meeting was addressed at 
first, by Rameswar Singh and Satyapal Misra who spoke abusing the petitioner 
and appealing to the Rajput voters to vote for the respondent No. 1 and that the 
respondert No. 1 spoke at the end supporting the statements of the previous 
speakers. They have neither quoted the exact words uttered nor stated that 
the respondent No. 1 specifically requested the Rainut voters to vote for him on 
caste basis. Such evidence is quite vague and cannot be taken as strict proof 
of the corrupt practice alleged . The respondent No 1 has denied that there 
were other sneakers at this meeting and also denied that he made there any 
appeal to Ratouts on the ground of caste . R . W . 26 , Rameswar Singh . Advocate . 
to whom I have already referred also denied that he spoke at this meeting and 
made any appeal to Rajputs on raste hesis and further denied that the respondent 
No . 1 mara Any caste apneal there in his speech , R . W . 7 Satvada ! Misra has 
similarly denied that he spoke at the mecting or that the respondent No 1 made 
any raste indeal to the Rajputs . Another witness nresent at the meeting RW 
35 has said the same thing . Though the Sahit meeting is mentioned in original 
Annexure A and the names of the nther speakers are there. so far as evidence 
goes , it is , as already stated , quite vague in regpect of the respondent No . 1 and , 
in onu rase . I cannot consider the witnesses for the petitioner to be more reliable 
than the latter s witnesses and hold that this allegation of caste appeal to the 
Raiput voters has been proved . Finally there was an allegation that an appeal 


to support the respondent No . 1 hecause of the services rendered by him to that 
community and some witnesses were examined on the point, but it has been 
denied by the said MLC (RW . 31 ) and the learner Advocate for the petitioner 
conceded at the time of argument that such appeal, even if made, could not 


764 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965 /PHALGUNA 8, 1886 


[PART II 


constitute a corrupt practice under sub - section ( 3 ) of Section 123 on the ground 
of caste or community as the respondent No. 1 was not a member of the Maithil 
Brahmin community . By finding therefore is that no commission of corrupt 
practice under this sub - section has been proved . 

38 . The next item of corrupt practice alleged to have been committed by the 
respondent No . 1 is under sub -section (3A ) of Section 123. It was alleged in 
para 8 of the election petition that by the printing and distribution of a book 
of songs in Hindi dialect entitled Jawane Ki Hawa the respondent No. 1 
incited communal feeling in the minds of the Hindus and created hatred against 
the Swatantra Party . No copy of this book - let was filed with the election peti 
tion , nor the names of the distributors mentioned in the Annexures. A copy 
was, however, Aled by the respondent No . 4 with his written statement and 
Another copy was filed with the amendment petition and the names of the 
distributors were mentioned in Annexure C thereof with the dates and places 
of distribution . It was stated there that two persons distributed this booklet 
on 16th February , 1982, at Samastipur where a meeting was addressed by the 
late Prime Minister Pandit Jwaharlal Nehru and that during a mela called 
Basant Panchmi Mela held at village Bajitpur the songs of this booklet were 
sung on a loud -speaker bv a hired singer whose name was unknown from Ist 
February , 1982. to 18th February , 1982. Evidence was given regarding distri 
bution and singing of the songs in the booklet by seven witnesses including the 
alleged singer ( P . W . 103, 104 , 106 , 108 , 115 , 117 and 120 ) . The booklet which 
is Ex . 4 containg eight songs and an English translation made by the Translator 
of the Patna High Court ( P . W . 118 ) has been furnished of songs No. 1 , 7 and 8 
and the eighth song , according to the petitioner s advocate , offends against sub 
section (3A ) of Section 123 ( Ex , 4 - 1 ) . This song runs as followg: — Rajas and 
Maharajas being unanimous have formed thiş Swatantra Party . Do not move 
behind this party because it is oppressive . They will restore the vested 
Zamindari and they will practice greater high handedness than before . They 
got the country partitioned and created Pakistan in India . Rajagopalachari iş 
the stooge of Mr. Jinnah , He will cheat you by telling lies . At first he will 
incite you and then get you crushed . Oh brother, save yourself from the 
Swatantra Party because it is a mischievous party ” . From the trend of this 
song it is clear that it is a bitter attack on the Swatantra Party , as also the 
other songs are and on the leader of that party Shri Rajagopalachari, but, however, 
reprehensible such attack may be, that would not constitute corrupt practice. 
It has , however , been argued that the statement that Sri Rajagopalachari was 
the stooge of Mr. Jinnah and created Pakistan was calculated to rouse communal 
feeling amongst the Hindus and spread hatred between the Hindus and Muslims. 
I am unable , however , to take such a view of this statement. It only refers to 
Sri Rajagopalachari s responsibility for the creation of Pakistan and though it is 
mean and reprehensible to depict that leader as the stooge of Mr. Jinnah , there 
is no scope for the suggestion that the statement was intended or calculated to 
create bad blood between Hindus and Muslims and rouse communal feeling. 
There is no communal appeal here either to the Hinduş or to the Muslims. I 
cannot therefore agree with the contention of the learned Advocate for the 
petitioner that it offends against sub - section (3A ) of Section 123 . 

39. In this view it is not necessary to discuss at length the evidence of the 
witnesses who have spoken to the distribution of the booklet and the singing of 
the songs . It is necessary to state , however , that there is absolutely no evidence 
connecting the respondent No. 1 with this booklet . It was stated in the clection 
netition that he got it printed . It was published by a person named Ramdeo 
Singh described as the author and printed in Rambhajan Press , Samastipur. 
The owner or manager of this press has not been examined . One witness- P . W . 
119 Jugal Kishore Prasad however stated that he worked as a compositor in this 
press and that on last day of January 1962 Banwari Babu , the son and election 
agent of the respondent No. 1 , came to the press and gave the manuscript of the 
booklet to the manager of the press who called the witness and asked him to 
compose the manuscriot. After that the booklet was printed . He was not the 
actual printer of the document and for a compositor to remember what he had 
composed two years ago is certainly difficult . No books or papers from the 
press were called by the petitioner . Banwari Babu has denied the story . In the face 
of this denial I am unable to find on the uncorroborated statement of a witness 
like this that he got it printed . P . W . 120 , the alleged singer , said that he was 
engaged , and that the book of songs was handed over to him , by Banwari Babu . 
I have already stated that the singer was described as unknown in the amended 
Annexure C . It has not been explained how his name was obtained . There is 
no allegation in Annexure C that Banwari Babu had engaged the singer , A rickshaw 
puller ( P . W . 117 ) has been examined who has said that his rickshaw was hired 
by Sitaram Pankaj from which the singer sang the songs and P . W , 115 has said 


SEC, 3 (li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 , 1965 / PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 


765 


and 108 have deposed to distribution and named the distributors, piz ., Sitaram 
Pankaj, Kamala Babu and Tripit Narayan Singh who have denied the fact 
R .Ws. 10 , 59 and 65 ) . The owner of the Basant Panchmi Mela ground ( R . W . 85 ) , 
a cousin of the petitioner , and several other witnesses who attended the Mela 
have also denied that these songs were sung there . The evidence, in my opinion , 
is worthless and I find that no connection of the respondent No . 1 or his election 
agent has been established with the publication or distribution of this booklet. 

40 . In paragraph 7 of the election petition it was alleged thai the congress 
party workers and agents of respondent No . 1 distributed to his knowledge and 
with his connivånce certain leaflets in Hindi casting heinous and false aspersions 
on the character of the petitioner and three such leaflets were mentioned in 
Annexure B without any other particulars regarding publication and distri 
bution . Only one of thesc leaflcts was , however , referred to at the trial and 
it has the title " Kalka Kukarmi, aj Sadhu ke besh me" . This leaflet was not 
filed with the election petition . In the written statement of respondent No. 4 
Hemanta Kumar Chowdhuri, son and election agent of the petitioner , certain 
particulars were furnished about this leaflet and a copy thereof was Aled with 
it. Another copy was filed with the petition for amendment and in the amended 
Annexure B full particulars were furnished including the nomes of the distri 
butors of the leaflet and the names of the villages where it was distributed with 
dates. The leaflet has been marked Ex . 2 and an English translation of it has 
hecn niade by P . W . 118 Vindeswari Prasad , Translator of the Patna High Court . 
This is the English translation ( Ex . 2 - 1 ) : 

“ ŞINNER OF YESTERDAY TURNS A PIOUS MAN TODAY, 
List of the black deeds of Ram Ashray Choudhry . 
( 1 ) It is known to all that he is the man who spoiled the character of Sita 

Devi, mistress , and reduced her to the state of begging from door 
to door . It is for this reasons that he has been showering shoes on 
his wife . The people have seen the instances of his misbehaviour 
with the girls of Nag family . He has spoiled their prestige and at 

the same time blackened his face. 
( 2 ) How does he think himself to be a respectable person when , on mis 

behaving by force at the house of the Dushadh in Dushadh Toli in 
Dalsingsarai Ganj he had to sustain assault by shoes and his cycle 

was snatched away 
( 3 ) Is it his prestige that he is alive even after being beaten with Kurpi 

( instrument for cutting grass ) and basket by the girls who cut 

grass ? 
( 4 ) Was his daughter mad that she ended her life by putting herself in 

fire ? It is not so . He burnt her to death as she became pregnant 
only when she was unmarried . Sin cannot be concealed in spite of 

an attempt to do so . His misdeeds were at last brought to light. 
( 5 ) Does he think himself to be the descendant of an Englishman that he 

allowed his cinema house to run even on the date on which the late 
Father of the Nation Bapu was shot dead by a sinner like him , 
The entire world plunged into grief while he was giving proof of 

the fact that he was a descendant of an Englishman . 
( B ) It is his vain dream to cxpect himself to be a leading member in the 

House of People when he has no knowledge of Hindi alphabet 
and still tries to massacre English language . He has an old coat oť 
1912 and a half pant by putting on the same he assumes a pose 
of an Englishman . He should shed tears for the action of his father 
that he could not make him litcrate . He cannot get the support 
of the people , by any means, nor can his English father come to 
his help . It is democracy . The people will not welcome him by 

casting votes ( for him ) but by showering shoes ( on him ) . 
( 7 ) It is his another vain dream to expert to be a leader that in spite of 

his highhanded actions to the poor he tries to persuade them by 
giving temptation . He has forgotten that he demolished the huts 
of Turha community and brought into existence Ram Ashray Nagor . 
The walls of Ram Ashray Nagor have been built by the mortar 

prepared with the blood of the poor . 
( 8 ) He has obtained a sum of Rupees one lac for contesting the election . 

Has he received this molley from his English father or from his step 
brothers , who in spite of being congressmen have become deserters 
today ? When he cannot give more than Rs. 50 to his unworthy 
sons for their expenses , it is not understandable as to how he has 
become so lavish in expenses, 


765 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965 / PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 


[PART II 


( 9 ) It is known to the people that he has taken three lacs of rupees in 

the name of cold storage after practising fraud upon the Govern 
ment and after converting his old house into cold storage he allowed 
thousands of maunds of potatoes belonging to the shopkecpers to 
rot therein and when being asked to pay the compensation for the 
loss , he is threatening them and they have no chance at all of get 
ting back their money . He has embezzled thirty thousand rupees 
of the fund of the school about which a report has been already sent 
to the authorities. Not only this much , but the Balika Vidyalaya 
had to be closed on account of his keeping the mistress with himself. 

The entire public of Dalşingsarai denounces his mean temperament. 
( 10 ) There are many instances of his misdceds which will be brought to 

light in bulletin No . 2 . Being the resident of Dalsinghsarai it 
becomes our duty to acquaint the public of Samastipur and 
Warisnagor also with the actions of wrong doer like him . 

Public of Dalsingsarai area ." 
41. It will be seen from the translation that leaflet is in fact a scurrilous 
document and contains most heinous and damaging aspersions on the personal 
character and conduct of the petitioner. He has stated that all the statements 
of fact in this leallet are absolutely false and there has been no allegation on 
the other side that any of these statements are true. There can be no doubt 


agents , would offend against sub - section ( 4 ) of Section 123 . 


This sub - section 


consent of a candidate or his election agent of any statement of fact which is 
false , and which he cither believes to be false or does not believe to be true, 
In relation to the personal character or conduct of any candidate , being a state 
inent reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects of that candidate s election . 
It has , however , been contended on behalf of the respondent No . 1 that in order 
to attract this sub - section the statements in the leaflct should not only be provech 
false but that it should also be proved that the person responsible for its publi 
cation believed them to be false or did not believe them to be true and that 
the onus to prove it is on the petitioner . Such proof it is contended , is wanting 
in this case and the mere statement of the petitioner that the statements of fact 
are false is not sufficient to meet the requirements of the sub -section , Reference 
has been made in this connection to the decision of the Patna High Court in 
the case of Badrinarain Singh Vs. Kamdeo Prasad Singh , reported in AIR 1961. Patna 
41. It was laid down in that case that all the essential ingredients of sub - section 
( 4 ) of Section 123 must be proved and that the onus to prove them lies heavily 
on the petitioner , one of the essential ingredients being that the person respon 
sible for publication must either believe the statement published to be falls or 
must not believe it to be true. There the impugned statement was that the 
petitioner had tendered apology for offences committed by him in the Congress 
Movement in 1942 and that the case against him had been withdrawn in conse 
quence . The petitioner denied the apology but admitted withdrawal of the case, 
though he did not disclose the reasons therefor. The statement was based on a 
letter of the Sub -divisional Omcer , Deoghar. It was held that mere denial of 
the apology in these circumstances was not sufficient to discharge the onus that 
lay upon the petitioner as he did not call for the relevant record to establish 
that he had not tendered apology and that the publisher was protected, as he had 
reascnable grounds to believe the statement to be true. Thus the facts at that 
case are quite distinguishable from the facts of the present case in which the 
statements are such that no question can arise of the publisher having any 
reasonable grounds to believe them to be true . No such suggestion was made 
either to the petitioner or to any of his witnesses. In these circumstances I 


cient to discharge the onus . 

42. The conduct of the person who was responsible for the publication of 
this scurrilous document cannot certainly he suficiently condemned , but the 
question here is whether the respondent No. 1 was responsible for its pub ] i 
cation . He has denied it and it has been pointed out on his behalf that he was not 
the only candidate contesting the election against the petitioner , but that there 
was another candidate , the respondent No. 2 , who got more votes than the peti 
tioner and who was as much , if not more, interested in reducing the petitioner s 
votes in order to better his own election prospects and who , therefore , might as 
well have been responsible for its publication . The leaflet itself does not 
contain the name of any press or of any publisher , No evidence has been given 
that Purushottam Prasad Singh alias Banwari Babu , his son and election agent, 
got it printed from Sankar Press , Patna. This press is mentioned in the amend 
ed Annexure B . One Dhirendra Kumar Verma ( P . W . 91 ) deposed that he had 
worked as a compositor in the said press for a period of 11 months from 15th 


SEC 3 ( 11 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965 / PHALGUNA 8, 1886 


767 


+ 


January to the end of February 1962 on piece -rate basis and that in the second 
week of February Banwari Babu and Satyapal Misra came to the pres3 and met 
the proprietor Radha Krishna Prasad who called him and giving him the manus 
cript of the leaflet asked him to compose and print 3000 copies immediately . He 
was directed not to print the name of the press therein . He immediately composed 
and printed the proof copy and the proprietor after correction of the proof gave 
the printing order . By 8 am , on the next day the copies were ready and delivered 
to the proprietor and the proof copy and the manuscript were destroyed . He 
has not said to whom the copies were delivered by the proprietor and when . 
As to how he knew Banwari Babu his evidence is that he had once seen him at 
the Collector s Court at Darbhanga in 1957 where he had gone to meet his father 
in - law who was a pleader s clerk , He could not name the pleader. He admitted 
that his father - in - law had no case in the Collector s Court that day . He has 
not explained who pointed out Banwari Babu to him or why. He admitted that 
his name was not entered in the register of the regular employees of the press 
because he was a thika piece -rate worker . He was neither the printer nor a 
permanent or long - term employee and it is difficult to believe that he of all 
persons should have been entrusted by the proprietor with a responsible job 
of this nature requiring socrecy . He stated that the leaflets were printed in 
monotype but admitted that there was no mono -machine in the press. The 
proprietor of the press Radha Krishna Singh has been examined by the respon 
dent No. 1 ( R . W 78 ) . He has denied that P . W . 91 ever worked in his press in 
Any capacity and also denied that a wages slip ( Ex . 3 ) which was produced by 
P . W . 91 was issued from his press or contained his signature or that the rubber 
stamp on it was of his press . He has further denied that the leaflet , Ex . 2 , had 
been printed in his press or that Banwari Babu and Satyapal Misra had gone to 
his press for getting it printed . He has produced his register of piece -rate 
workers ( Ex . F ) which does not contain the name of P . W . 91. Satyapal Misra 
is the editor of a paper named Karmi which is sometimes printed from this 
press. He has been examined by the respondent No . 1 ( R . W . 7 ) and denied the 
incident. It has becn argued that Ex . 2 being a defamatory document, no press 
owner who might have printed it would be likely to admit its printing and thereby 
make himself Jiable for the statements contained therein and that no importance 
should therefore be attached to R . W . 78 s denial. But the onus is on the petitioner 
to prove that this leaflet was printed in this press at the instance of Banwari 
Babu and certainly this onus cannot be said to have been discharged by the 
examination of a worthless witness like P . W . 91 who has been disowned by the 
proprietor of the press. It has been contended that his evidence has been 
corroborated in a way by the cvidence of another press - owner of Dalsingsarai 
( P . W . 26 ) who has deposed that a fortnight before the clection he had been 
summoned by Banwari Babu and requested to print this leaflet, which he refused 
to do on reading the manuscript as it contained abuse of the petitioner , and that 
Satyapal Misra who was there then said that he would get it printed from 
Sankar Press , Patna where his paper Karmi was printed. This witness had 
admittedly been prosecuted by Satyapal Misra in a criminal case of defamation 
in respect of a hand bil ] printed by him on behalf of the petitioner who was a 
co -accused in that case . The case was eventually compromised but it shows the 
close connection between the petitioner and this witness who has also admitted 
that he printed some election materials for the petitioner in 1962, Dalğingserai 
was the headquarters of the petitioner and , according to R . W . 9 , this press was 
situated in a premises belonging to the petitioner himself. In these circumstances , 
it is not possible to believe that this press -owner of all persons would have been 
approached for the printing of a document like this directed against the 
petitioner . Banwari Babu and Satyapal Misra ( R . W . 7 ) and the other persons 
said to have been present at the time. viz ., Baleshwar Ram ( R . W . 83 ) . Makhan 
Surekha ( R . W . 8 ) and Jagdish Chaudhuri ( R . W . 9 ) have all denied his story and 
I cannot accept it in the face of such denials and the circumstances mentioned . 
I find therefore that the petitioner has failed to establish that Banwari Babu 
got the leaflets printed at the Sankar Press , Patna . 

43. With regard to distribution of the leaflets also the principal part is said to 
have been played by Banwari Babu . Strangely enough , however , his name is 
nowhere mentioned in the election petition . All that is stated there is that the 
congress party workers and agents of respondent No , 1 distributed the leaflets , 
Even the words election agent do not occur there. This is stranger still 
because Hemanta Babu , the son and election agent of the petitioner , ( P . W . 124 ) . 
has given evidence that he had himself drafted the election petition and that he 
had come to know of the distribution of leaſlcts by Banwari Babu and secured 
a copy thereof on 22nd February , 1962. He showed it to his father and under his 
direction he drafted a petition complaining against such distribution and addressed 
it to the Returning Omcer , Samastipur. He took it to Samastipur on 23rd 
February, 1962, met the Sub - divisional Officer of Samastipur and presented the 


768 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965 / PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 


[PART II 


petition to him through Shri S . S . P . Şinha , the Second Officer. A copy of the 
leaflet was enclosed with this petition . These two officers ( PWS. 99 and 111 ) 
have corroborated this . This copy of the leaflet was forwarded by the Sub 
divisional Omcer , Samastipur, to the District Magistrate , Darbhanga who was the 
Returning Officer of this Parliamentary Constituency , with a report and the latter 
( PW . 98 ) has proved it. The petition of complaint has been marked Ex . 5 and 
the report which contains the copy of the leaflet is Ex . 1. The all important fact 
that Banwari Babu himself was distributing the leaflets is not, however , mentioned 
in the petition . Ex . 5 , where the only statement is that these leaflets were being 
distributed to the public in general by the men und agency of Sri Satya Narain 
Sinha . If he had come to know on 22nd February 1962 that the leaflets were 
being distributed by Bawari Babu , it is very strange that Hemanta Babu should 
have omitted Banwari Babu s name in the petition , since mention of his name 
would have directly connected the respondent No. 1 with the distribution of 
the leaflets . The vague statement about distribution by " men and agency " of 
respondent No . 1 is absolutely inexplicable in view of the case made at the 
trial. Even in his written statement filed on 28th August 1962 Hemanta Babu 
did not mention Banwari Babu as the distributor of the leaflets . In this statement 
it was alleged that he had approached the respondent No 1 personally and 
protested to him against the distribution of such leaflets but he did not refer 
to this fact in his evidence and no such suggestion was made to the respondent 
No. 1. The story of distribution by Banwari Babu himself was introduced for 
th , first time in the amended petition filed on 16th October 1962 six months after 
the Aling of the election petition . There is therefore justification for the 
contention of the learned advocate for respondent No. 1 that it was an after 
thought and the motive for the introduction of such a case in the amendment 
has also been suggested . It is pointed that the difference in votes between the 
petitioner and respondent No. 1 is 37, 111 and that, that being so, it would be 
an impossible task for the petitioner to establish that the result of the election 
had been materially affected by the distribution of these leaflets . His only hope 
of success lay therefore in attempting to prove that this corrupt practice had becn 
committed by respondent No. 1 s election agent himself and thereby bring the 
case within the purview of Sec . 100 ( 1 ) (b ) of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951. This is an important consideration to be borne in mind in judging the 
evidence adduced on this part of the case . 

44 . That evidence has also certain very peculiar and rather unusual features . 
According to amended annexure B , Banwari Babu distributed the leaflets from a 
jeep in seven villages on 17th February 1962, in Samastipur town on 21st February 


February 1962 and finally in three villages on 25th February 1962. Evidence has 
been given regarding distribution by him in eight villages only and in Samastipur 
town, The first peculiar thing to note is the method of distribution . The general 
evidence of the witnesses is that he came to the villages by a Jeep , stopped on the 
road -side, distributed the leaflets to the persons he found there , whose number , 
according to the witnesses, never exceeded 10 or 15 at a place and who were gen 
erally attracted to the road - side by the sound of the arrival of the jeep , and then 
lett. He did not stop at any place for more than 5 or 10 minutes. He never asked 


any witness that he made any propaganda or addressed any word to them . He was 
a silent distributor who was anxious to Anish his job as quickly as possible and then 
to move on . The distribution was not even made systematically in village after 
village on the route covered by the Jeep . The evidence rather suggests that he 
visited one village and then another several miles apart skipping over the inter 
mediate villages . The second peculiar thing is that the distribution was made 
either on the day of polling or on the day before . Even in Samastipur toun which 
was the headquarters of the respondent No, 1 who had an election office there the 
leaflets were distributed on the polling day , viz ., 21st February 1962. The printed 
leaflets were ready, according to the petitioner s case , on or before 17th February 
1962 and no reason has been suggested why the distribution of the leaflets in 
Samastipur should have been put off till the morning of the polling day after the 
commencement of the poll. In certain other villages also distribution was made on 
the polling day, viz ., 25th February 1962. There are witnesses who have said that 
they received the leaflets after they had cast their votes . It is not that Banwari 
Babu , as election agenț, wanted to visit the polling booths on the day of polling to 
ascertain or enquire how it was going on . The evidence does not suggest that he 
did visit any of the polling booths or make any enquiries about the polling . 
Banwari Babu was in charge of the election affairs of his father at Samastipur and 
it is strange that he should have moved about and travelled long distance by jeepg 
on the poling day or on the day before polling simply to distribute these leaflets 
to stray road - side villagers . He has said that he never moved out of the election 


C. (ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : 1EBRUARY 27, 1965/ PHALGUNA 8, 1886 


769 


office or the town of Samastipur where he was very busy and it has been corro 
Dorated by several witnesses of respondent No . 1, vie ., RWS, 5 , 10 , 12 , 24 & 25 who 
saw him in election office on the alleged dates of distribution . The congress had 
workers in nearly all the villages, but it has been argued that it was not considered 
safe to entrust the distribution to them or that in view of the nature of the leaflet 
they might not have agreed to undertake the task , It is worthy of note , however , 
that no special animosity against the petitioner has been suggested as the reason 
for the propagation oť these leaflets by Banwari Babu personally . It would rather 
he nure natural to presume that in view of the nature of the leaflet he would have 
considered it safer and more proper not to implicate himself in the matter of its 
distribution , [ [ the distribution of the leaflets was intended to influence the voters 
at the last moment or if it was thought that the distribution by Banwari Babu 
himself would have swayed the voters more than distribution by ordinary workers , 
the evidence shows that the move failed altogether. With one or two exceptions 
every witness has said that he read his copy of the leaflet and then destroyed it 
because it was a Althy document. Nobody has suggested that he believed the allega 
tions in llie leaflet or was in any way influenced thereby against the petitioner . All 
these consideraiions tend to show that the story of distribution given by the wit 
nesses is neither natural nor probable , 


45 . So far as the witnessess are concerned , though the petitioner has examined 
u large numher of witnesses to prove distribution of the leaflets , un equally Jarge 
nunber of witnesses for respondent No. 1 has denied it. Evidence has been given 
that tlie first distribution was made by Banwari Babu on 17th February 1962 in the 
villig - 5 ci Sankmohan , Bibhutpur, Mustafapur and Kalyanpur. PW . 2 is, how 
ever, the only witness from Sankmohan and PW . 82 from Bibhutpur. Besides 
Bauwari Babu RW s . 53, 55 & 56 from Sankmohan and RWS, 15 , 16 & 54 from 
Bibhutpur have denied suih distribution . In the face of such overwhelmning denial 
the solitary eviderice of PWs. 72 & 82 cannot be believed . Regarding distribution 
at Mustafapur there are four witnesses two of whom , viz ., PW , 20 and PW . 36 , 
however , do not helong to the village. PW , 20 lives 8 or 9 miles off but says that 
he had come to this village on that day for ( ouvassing on behalf of the Praja 
Socialist Party ( anclidate . He was a worker of that party and polling agent of 
respondent No. 2 . Similarly PW , 36 who lives 6 miles off had been there to canvass 
for the Swatantra Party candidates. Both must therefore be taken to be chance 
and interested witnesses , PWA, 70 and 71 are no doubt residents of Mustafapur. 
But there is a suggestion against them that they worked for the petitioner during 
the election , I cannot consider their evidence as sufcient and reliable . This dis 
tribution has been denied by RW . 89 besides Banwari Babu . The last place about 
which evidence has been given of distribution on 17th February 1962 10 . 00 a . m . is 
Kalyanpur which is 3 miles off from Mustafapur (RW , 89) . The witnesses are 
PWs. 69 , 73 , 86 , 89 , 90 and 109. Four of them exc )uding PWs, 89 and 109 were 
Swatantra Party workers during election , acrording to FW , 20. I have already 
criticised the evidence of PW . 69 in connection with the allegation of bribing of 
Harijan voters . Besides, according to him , Banwari Babu had been to his house 
on the same day in the evening to pay money for distribution amongst Harijan 
voters and Kalyanpur being 14 miles off from Samastipur ( PW . 73 ) to suggest that 
Bawari Balu had been to the village once at 10 a .m . and again in the evening 
or at night is something iinprobable . PW . 73 has admiticd that he was the polling 
agent oť the petitioner and is therefore obviously interested . PW . 86 said that he 
had connection with Banwari Babu as he had worked for the Congress during 
election , but in that case there was no reason why a copy of the leaflet should have 
been given to him . He was Upamukhia of the Grampanchayat and said that he 
had complained about the leaflet to his Mukhiya at the Grainpanchayet omce , but 
The Mukhiya (PW . 109) said that he also received a copy of the leaflet at the same 
time as PW . 86. They were together but PW . 86 did not say so and on the other 
hand his statement suggests that the Mukhiya was not present during distribution , 
PW . 109 made an absurd statemont that he had handed over his leaflet to a Police 
Constable as he considered it objectionable . PW . 89 spokc about having received a 
leaflet like Ex . ? printed on red paper , but Ex - 2 is printed on white paper and there 
Is no evidence that any copies were printed on red paper. He was not named by 
the Mukhiya PW . 109 as having been present at the distribution of the leaflets . 
PW , 90 has been so named but his evidence is that he had reported about the 
Leaflet to the Mukhiya which suggests that the Mukhiya was not present at the 
distribution . This distribution has been denied hy besides Banwari Babu as many 
as four witnesses for the respondent No. 1 , No . 20 , 21, 22 and 23. In the face of 
such denials and in view of the contradictory nature of the evidence and the gen 
eral considerations discussed ahove I am not able to accept and rely upon it. This 
exhausts all the evidence regarding distribution on 17th February 1962, 


48 . Evidence has next been given regarding distribution on 21st February 1962 
at Samastipur town and four witnesses have been examined on the point, vix .. 


770 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965 / PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 


[PART II 


PWY. 44 , 45, 46 and 47. Curiously enough , none of them belongs to Samastipur. 
PW . 44 belongs to Dalsingsarai P . S ., 15 or 16 miles off and was a voter there . He 
says that he was manager of a firm at Samastipur but this has been denied by 
RW , 14 who is the proprietor of a store situated close to that firm . RW . 14 has 
further said that the proprietor of that firm is a teacher in the petitioner s school 
at Dalsingsaral and hence under his influence . PW . 45 lives 6 miles off from 
Samastipur. He had been there to purchase cloth on that day. PW . 46 also lives 
6 miles off from Samastipur and had been there to purchase medicine. Both of 
them say that they had reported the distribution of the leaflets by Banwari Babu 
to Hemanta Babu on the day of counting of votes at Samastipur, but this was not 
corroborated by Hemanta Babu . PW , 47 had been to Samastipur to see , as he said , 
the tamasha of voting . He spoke of distribution at 11 a . m , which on a polling day 
is most improbable. He also reported this matter to Hemanta Babu 4 or 5 days 
after the polling, but this has not been corroborated . It is strange that the peti 
tioner could not find any voter or witness from Samastipur to prove this distribu 
tion which has been denied by as many as seven witnesses besides Banwari Babu , 
ViE ., RW8. 14 , 39 , 41, 66 , 67 , 71 and 72 , some of whom are very respectable being 
businessmen , Advocates, Municipal Chairman and Vice -Chairman . In view of the 
nature of the petitioner s witnesses and this overwhelming evidence of denial 
coupled with the improbability of delayed distribution till 11 a . m . on the polling 
day already remarked upon I cannot place any reliance on them , 

47. With regard to distribution of the leaflets by Banwari Babu on 22nd Febru 
ary 1962, evidence has been given that he distributed them on that date at two 
villages , viz ., Khalishpur and Udapatti, Two witnesses, viz ., PW . 49 and PW . 53, 
have deposed to distribution at Udapatti in the evening of that date which was the 
day before polling. Neither PW . 49 nor PW . 53 is a resident of Udapatti proper. 
PW . 49 named certain persons who also got copies of the leaflets along with him 
but he did not name PW . 53. According to RW . 33 who is Vice - Principal of a 
college and was a Swatantra Party candidate for election to the Assembly in 1962 , 
both these witnesses worked for the Swatantra Party during that election . They 
are therefore obviously Interested witnesses . PW . 49 has said that he took his copy 
of the leaflet to the Mukhiya of the village Anirudh Babu and then handed it over 
to Hemanta Babu . The latter has said that this was the first copy of the leaflet he 
received at the house of the Mukhiya which he filed with his petition , Ex , 5 , on the 
next day . The witness is not, however , named in Ex , 5 , nor his village mentioned . 
Hemanta Babu s evidence is that he had been out on tour on that day and had 
visited the villages of Khalishpur and Udapatti, but RW . 13, an Advocate and a 
member of the Swatantra Party , and RW . 39 , the Sercetary of a Thana Swatantra 
Party and a candidate for election to an Assembly seat from that Party , have said 
that they accompanied Hemanta Babu in this tour and that on account of the 
breakdown of the jeep in which they were travelling at Kalyanpur they could not 
go to these villages at all but returned by rickshaws to Sanstipur. This evidence 
Tenders improbable the story given by Hemanta Babu . Other witnesses like RWs. 
33 and 62 have also denied Hemanta Babu s visit to these villages , Distribution of 
leaflets at Udapatti has been denied by respondent s witnesses Nos . 29 , 30 & 33 
besides Banwari Babu . I am therefore unable to rely upon this evidence of distri 
bution . As to distribution at Khalishpur six witnesses have been examined , viz ., 
PWs, 48, 50, 51, 52, 54 and 55 , PW . 48 has said that distribution was made by Ban 
wari Babu at about 2 .0 pm . He has also said that in the same afternoon he had 
informed Hemanta Babu about the leaflet in detail but Hemanta Babu did not 
name him as an informant. PW s. 52 and 55 have been named by Hemanta Babu 
and they have said that they reported the distribution to him . But if Hemanta 
Babu did not visit Khalishpur at all that day , as the respondent No, l s witnesses 
prove, all this evidence is worthless . According to RWs 62, all these witnesses work 
ed for the Swatantra Party during election . The distribution at Khalishpur has been 
denied by RWs, 33, 62 , 63 and 64 besides Banwari Babu . The evidence regarding 
this distribution may be voluminous but it is of little worth and I cannot place any 
reliance upon it. Finally on 25th February, 1962, also a polling day , Banwari Babu 
is said to have distributed the leaflets in two villages, viz ., Gohi and Brahgama. 
From Gohi only one witness, P . W . 56 , has come and from Brahgama two, R .Ws. 58 
and 59. The solitary evidence of PW . 56 cannot be accepted as against denial by 
Banwari Babu and another witness , RW . 40, according to whom PW . 36 worked for 
the Swatantra Party during the election . PWs, 58 and 59 are certainly interested 
in that Party being relations of a candidate for election to the Assembly from that 
Party . Besides Banwarl Babu three more witnesses from Brahgama, HWs. 68 , 69 
and 70 have denied such distribution . I cannot therefore accept this evidence of 
distribution . The result therefore is that the patitioner has failed to prove distri 
bution of the leaflets by Banwari Babu in any of the villages alleged . 


. 48 . The next person who has been made responsible by the petitioner for dis 
tribution of these leaflets in as many as nine villages is Sri Baleswer Ram , a 


Sec. 3 ( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965 / PIIALGUNA 8, 1886 


771 


State Minister of the Government of Bihar , who at the time of election was a 


from Dalsingsarai West Constituency , the polling for which took place on 21st 
February , 1962. He is said to have distributed the leaflets at Mirzapur, Simri, 
Sahit or Bajitpur, Nagargawa and Garsisai on 19th February , 1962, at Gogpur and 
Rampur Jalalpur on 20th February , 1962, and at Asinchawk and Pagra on 21st 
February , 1962 . All these villages are within his constituency. The same impro 
habilities as in the case of Banwari Babu and even more attach to the evidence of 
distribution by him . The method of distribution is the same, the evidence being 
that he visited these villages by a jeep , stopped on the village road , distributed the 
leaflets to ten , fifteen or twenty persons found there and then left. It is not stated 
that he said anything or made any propaganda with regard to his own election 
or even asked the people he met to vote for the Congress candidate . He did not 
eyen visit the polling booths on the day of polling and is said to have distributed 
the lcaflets long after the polling had commenced . Thus P . W . 21 has said that 
he received the leaflet from him at noon while he had cast his vote at 7 . 30 A . M . 
A candidate for election should be expected to be busy about his own election on 
the polling day and the days immediately preceding and it is impossible to believe 
that he would have travelled long distances even up to 14 miles from his residence 
for distribution of a leaflet which did not concern his election at all and was un 
likely to do any good to the Congress cause. It is still more impossible to believe 
this of a responsible person who was holding the office of Parliamentary Secretary 
at the time. It is not alleged that he had any special grudge or animosity ugainst 
the petitioner on account of which he took this unusual course of distributing 
leaflets attacking the latter s personal character at the risk of his own reputation . 
The only suggestion is that he borc a grudge against the Swatantra Party because 
one Ram Padarath Mahto , a candidate for election from that party in 1982 , had 
in 1957 filed an election petition against him . But that petition was ultimately 
dismissed in appeal as against him and in 1957 Swatantra Party was not in axis 
tence . The witnesses regarding such distribution are generally one or two from 
each village in all 18 , viz ., PWs. No. 15 , 16 , 17 , 19 , 20 , 21, 28 , 35 , 37, 38 , 39 , 76 , 80 , 
81, 88 , 96 , 97 and 107 , They are stereotyped witnesses of the same kind and I am not 
impressed by them . I do not therefore propose to discuss their evidence in detail. 
Sri Baleswar Ram himself (RW . 83 ) and a large number of witnesses , viz ., RWs. 36 
37 , 38 , 45 , 46 , 57, 77, 79 , 81 and 82 have denied such distribution and in the face of 
such denial and the improbabilities already remarked upon I am unable to accept 
this evidence . It is also not proved that Sri Baleswar Ram was in any way an 
agent of the respondent No. 1 authorised by him or his election agent to makc 
such distribution . 

49 . Another person who is said to have distributed the leaflets in three villages, 
viz ., Maniarpur, Ghato - Bhairopatty and Chandchar , on 21st February , 1962, and 
22nd February , 1962, is Sitaram Pankaj (RW , 65 ) . He is not a local person but 
belongs to Monghyr district and since 1961 he has been staying at Goorgaon in 
East Punjab and doing business there. He has admitted , however , that during 
January and February 1982 he was at Samastipur doing election work on behall 
of the Congress in the neighbouring villages and that he was the polling agent of 
respondent No. 1 at Udapatti. The above named villages are in Dalsingsarai West 
Assembly constituency but he said that his election activities were confned to 
Samastipur West Constituency and that he had no occasion to go to the other 
Constituency . According to the petitioner s case, he was in - charge of the 
election office of respondent No. 1 at Dalsingsarai, but he has denied it . 
In any case, he was not a man who knew or was known in the locality 
And it does not seem probable that he would have bcen entrusted with 
the work of distribution of these leaflets . He has denied that he distributed 
any such leaflet anywhere. P . W . 22 the first witness who speaks of distribution hy 
him at Maniarpur did not know him at all. He only heard people saying that the 
distributor was Sitaram Pankaj, PW . 25 another witness from Maniarpur was the 
polling agent of a P . S . P . candidate for the Assembly in the village polling booth 
and it being thc polling day it does not appear how he would have been on the 
road to receive the leaflet . He admitted that he had been present at the polling 
booth when the boxes were sealed that morning but said that thereafter he left 
for home neglecting his duties as polling agent. This is difficult to believe. There 
is only one witness from Ghato - Bhairopatty and he is P . W . 34 , a Mukhiya . He also 
did not know Sitaram Pankaj before the election . He said that Sitaram Pankaj 
gave him 25 leaflets for distribution but he did not distribute them . None of these 
has been produced and it has not been stated what happened to them , He had met 
a son of the petitioner a few days later but he did not hand over any of the leaflets 
to him . He did not even read the leaflet. This distribution has been denied by 
three witnesses, viz ., RWS, 73 , 75 and 78 , About distribution at Chandchar 
five witnesses have been examined , viz ., PW9, 60 , 61, 62, 63 and 74 . Their evidence 
is of the same stereotyped kind and four of them said that they had reported about 
distribution of these leaflets to Hemanta Babu a few days later , but this has not 


been corroborated by the latter , RWs. 49 and 58, one of whom is a teacher and 
the other a registered Vaidya, have denied this distribution . According to RW . 58 
all the Ive witnesses for the petitioner had worked for him during the election . 
In these circumstances I cannot accept their evidence as also the evidence of the 
other witnesses and find that these leaflets were distributed by Situ Ram Pankaj. 

50 . I do not propose to discuss in detail thc evidence of distribution by certain 
other persons, namely Satyapal Misra (RW . 7 ) who is said to have distributed the 
leaflets at Dalsingsarai on the morning of the polling day 21st February, 1962 , 
Ramakanta Misra (RW . 11 ) who is said to have distributed the leaflets at Kalyan 
pur ind Birsingpur on 22nd February , 1962 . Jagdish Cliowdhuri (RW , 9 ) and 
others who are said to have distributed them at Keota on the polling day 21st 
February, 1962 and Damodar Chowdhuu ( R . W . 61 ) and Makhan Lal Surekha ( RW . 
8 ) who are said to have distributed them at Dalsingsarai also on the same polling 
day. Regarding such distribution one or two witnesses from each place , excepting 
that there are four from Kalyanpur , have been examined by the petitioner . They 
are PWs. 40 , 41, 42 , 43 , 64 , 65 , 68, 75 and 95 . The alleged distributors have all 
denird it and certain other witnesses for respondent No . 1 like NWs. 28 , 50 , 51, 52, 
74 , 85 and 86 two of them from Kalyanpur have denied it too. The method of 
distribution is the same and it is not alleged that any of these persons spoke any 
thing or indulged in any canvassing. Many of the petitioner s witnesses had been 
workers of the Swatantra Party during the election and , according to RW . 51, all 
the witnesses from Kalyantur were such workers. Apart from all that, it has not 
been proved that these persons were agents of the respondent No. 1 and had been 
authorised by him or his clection agent to distribute the leaflets or did so with 
their consent. Satyapal Misra admitted that he had worked for the Congress 
during the election but that is not sufficient. Makhanlal Surekha way not a Cou 
gresy worker and denied that he had worked for the respondent No. 1 during 
election . Jagdish Chowdhuri was Joint Secretary of Dalsingsarai Thrana Congress 
Committee , but that also is not evidence of his agency . Damodar Chowdhuri has 
denied that he had worked for the respondent No . 1 during the election . He was 
a polling agent for Shri Baleswar Ram , but that is another intter . Ramakanta 
Misra of course admitted that he had worked for respondent No . I s election and 
was his polling and counting agent, but that is no proof that he was authorised 
to distribute these leaflets or did so with his consent. Two witnesses for the 
petition s spoke of distribution of these leaflets by one Goswami, but his full name 
was not given , and so the learned Advocate for the petitioner did not press this 
part of his case . The result is that, in my opinion , the petitioner has failed to 


sub - section (4 ) of Section 123 of the R . P . Act, 1951 was committed . 


51. The next item of corrupt practice alleged is the hiring or procuring of 
bullock carts and rickshaws by the respondent No. 1 or his agents for the 
conveya zce of voters to or from polling stations under sub . sec , ( 5 ) of section 123 . 
With regard to hiring of bullock carts no names were mentioned in annexure D 
to the clection petition . In paragraph 15 of the petition certain namns were 
mentioned and it was alleged that they had hired rickshaws on hehalf of 
respondent No . 1 for conveyance of voters to certain polling booths. It was not 
stated , however , from whom the rickshaws were hired . In the petition for 
amendment certain names of bullock cart -owners and hirers were mentioned in 
annexuri D but the names of the rickshaw owners were not disclosed . Evidence 
has been given that the bullork - carts of PW . 6 Thaman Rai and PW . 9 Laxman 
Rai, who are two of the cart-owners named in amended annexure D , were hired 
at Kcotu by one Kapildeo Choudhury on the polling day for carrying voters . It 
has not been proved , however, that Kapildeo was an agent of respondent No . 1 . 
Nor has any evidence been given as to which yoters were carried in these bullock 
carts . UWs. 74 and 86 of Keola have given evidence that PWs. 6 and 9 are 
tenants of the petitioner and that they had no carts at the time of election , They 
have alyn denied that any voters were conveyed to the polling booth in Bullock 
carts . W . O produced a licence for a cart but it was not for the year 1962. IIe 
admitted that he had no personal knowledge that Kapildeo was a worker of 
the respondent No. 1 . PW . 9 did not produce any licence for his cart. These 
are worthless witnesses and cannot be believed the more so because of the fact 
that not a single name out of the voters said to have been carried in their carts 
has been disclosed . There is also no proof that Kapildeo was an agent of 
respond ! nt No. 1 . With regard to rickshaws, cvidence has been given by PW . 7 
and PW . 8 of Dalsingsarai that their rickshaws were hired by Deviprasad 
Agarwalla Satyapal Misra and Makhan Surekha on the polling day for the 
conveyance of voters . These persons who are RWs. 7 , 8 and 84 have denient the . 
story and have also denied that they were agents or workers or respondent No . 1 . 
According to RW . 7 , PW 8 is a cloth merchant and does not own any rickshaw 
and his shop is situated in the premises of the petitioner , PW 8 admitted that 


SEC . 3 ( il ) ] THE GAZETIE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965 / PHALGUNA 8, 1886 


773 


he held 110 licence for his rickshaw . PW . 14 deposed that he was a rickshaw . 
driver of PW . 8 and carried voters under his direction , but PW , 8 did not name 
him at all. No names of voters said to have been carricd in these rickshaws have 
been disclosed . Considering all these l acts I am unable to accept this evidence 
and hold that the commission of this corrupt practice has been proved . 

52 . The last item of corrupt practice alleged is under sub. sec . ( 6 ) of sec , 123 
regarding incurring or authorising of expenditure in contravention of sec . 77 
of the R . P . Act. Sec . 77 provides that - ( 1 ) every candidate at an election shall , 
cither by himsell or by his clection agent, keep a separate and correct account 
of all expenditure in connection with the election incurred or authorised by him 
or by his election agent between the date of publication of the notification calling 
the election and the date of declaration of the result thereof, both dates inclusive ; 
( 2 ) the account shall contain suich particulars , as may be prescribed ; and ( 3 ) the 
total of the said expenditure shall not exceed such amount as may be prescribed . 
Rule 90 of the conduct of Election Rules 1961 provides that for election in a 
Parliamentary constituency in my State the total of the expenditure under ser , 
77 should not exceed Rs. 25 , 000 / - . The account of clection expenses lodged by 
the respondent No. 1 with the Relurning # cer under Sec , 78 of the RP, Act in 
26th March 1963 shows that he spent a total sum of Rs. 12 , 103 - 30 np. (Ex . 7 ) . 
Certain vouchers were also enclosed with the account. One of the items of expenses 
represented purchase of petrol spreud over the months of January and February , 
1962 and the total expenditure under this item was Rs. 7, 556 . 07 np . covered by 
two vouchers dated 2nd February 1962 and 24th March 1962 for Rs. 2,843 . 47 nė , 
and Rs. 5 ,713 . 50 np . respectively obtained from H . P . Ghose & Sons, Petrol 
Dealers , Samastipur . The petitioner s case is that the amount spent on petrol 
was much more and that two payments of Rs. 6 , 000 / - dated 29th January 1962 
and Rs. 8 ,000 / - dated 2nd February 1962 made to the said petrol deulors had 
not been included in the account. It is said that two cheques for the said 
amounts bearing the respective dates were drawn by Shri P . P . Singh , election 
agent of respondent No. 1 , on the Central Bank of India , Samastipur Branch , 
in favour of Ramakanta Misra who made the payments , after cashing the chequcs , 
to R . P . Gliosh , proprietor of H . P . Ghosc & Sons. As already stated , no parti 
culars regarding this charge of corrupt practice had been mentioned in the 
election pctition and these items were for the first time disclosed in a new 
annexure F introduced by the amendment. The two cheques [ Exs, 8 and 8 ( a ) ] 
have been produced by the Central Bank , Samastipur Branch , and these as also 
the extracts from the Ledger produced by the Bank show that the amounts of 
thesc cheques were paid to Ramakanta Misra in whose favour they were drawii 
on the respective dates . The petitioner has examined one witness PW . 105 
Mahendra Narayan Chowdhuri who has stated that he had been to the Bank on 
these two dates , viz ., 29th January 1962 and 2nd February 1962 , to cash two 
cheques of Rs. 200 / - each bearing the same dates and drawn in his favour by 
the petitioner and that while he was in the bank waiting to cash his cheques 
he saw Ramakant Misra cash the two cheques of Rs. 6 ,000 / - and Rs. 8 , 000 / - on 
the respective dates and pay the amounts then and there to R . P . Ghose. These 
two cheques of Rs. 2007 - each have been produced by the bank [ Exs. 10 and 
10 ( a ) ] and the copies of the Ledger show that they were cashed by Mahendra 
Narayan Chowdhuri, P . P . Singh alias Banwari Babu has admitted the two 
chcques of Rs. 6 ,000 / - and Rs. 8 ,000 / - but denied that these chegues were drawn 
for payment to R . P . Ghose for petrol. According to him , Ramakanta brought 
the amounts of the cheques and paid the same to him , Ramakanta Misra who 
is RW . 11 has admitted the cashing of these chcqucs and said that he made over 
the amounts to Banwari Babu at his residence . He denied having paid these 
sums to R P . Ghose , R . P . Ghose is dead and so could not be examined hw the 
either party . But the petitioner summoned H . P . Ghose & Sons and called for 
their account books and in obedience to this summons an employce of the firm 
came to court with the account books on 29th May 1964 . The learned Advocate 
for the petitioner , however , declined to examine him . The fact that the account 
books, though produced , were not utilised by the petitioner will give rise to a 
presumption that they would not have supported his case . On 2nd February 
1962 this firm had received a payment of Rs. 1 ,843:47 np . from Shri P . P . Singh , 
according to the voucher enclosed with the account of election expenses, and 
this payment was in full satisfaction of a bill submitted by the firm on 1st 
February 1962. If the Arm had actually received a payment of Rs. 8 . 000 / - on 
2nd February 1962 it is not clear why it would not have issued a voucher foi 
that amount. The representative of the firm was called with its account books 
but he was not examined and questioned on this point. The sum of Rs. 1, 843 - 47 
nP, was paid in cash , as recited in the voucher , and it is jiot possible to conceive 
that two cash payments were made on the same date to the same firm on the 
same account. It would be more reasonable to presume on the other hand that 
the sum of Rs. 1 ,843 .47 np . was paid out of the proceeds of the cheque for Rs. 
4,000 / -. Since the voucher recites that the payment of Rs. 1, 843 :47 np . was in 


774 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965 / PHALGUNA 8, 1886 


[PART II 


full satisfaction of a bill dated 1st February 1962, it is also reasonable to presume 
that this bill covered petrol supplied during the previous month and it is not 
possible to believe that a sum of Rs. 6 ,000 / - would have been due to the firm 
on 29th January 1962 , apart from this bill . If a payment of Rs. 6 , 000 / - had been 
made on that date , on such bill could have been submitted only three days later , 
It has been suggested that this method of payment was adopted because the 
payment were intended to be kept secret and not to be included in the account 
of election expenses . But the second voucher dated 24th March 1962 shows that 
the sum of Rs. 5 ,713 :50 np . was also paid in cash and, in any case , such suggestion 
renders the story given by PW . 105 quite improbable . A payment intended to 
be kept secret would have been made either in the house of P . P . Singh or in 
that of R . P . Ghose and not in a public place like a bank in the presence of 
outsidery to whom the proprietor of the Arm must be well-known . PW . 105 
was admittedly a canvusser for the petitioner during the election and had been 
staying at Samastipur which is 16 miles off from his home for this purpose . He 
is thus neither an independent nor a disinterested witness entitled to more credit 
than Banwari Babu and Ramakanta Misra and the circumstances discussed above 
also militate against his story . I cannot therefore believe it. I find therefore that 
these items of expenditure have not been proved . 


53. The next item of election expenses alleged to have been excluded from the 


in item ( j ) of the amended annexure F including food charges of the workers 
estimated at Rs. 10 ,000 / - and their travelling allowances at the rate of Rs. 5 / 
per day per head - estimated at Rs. 75 , 000 / -. Eight witnęgses have been examined 
to show that allowances at this rate were paid to the respondent no . l s workers . 
They are PWy. 101, 102, 103, 104, 106 , 110 , 112 and 118 . PW 101 says that the 
respondent No . 1 had an election ofiice at village Sahit of which Tripit Singh was 
in - charge and that in that once 50 workers were maintained for three weeks and 
given allowances at this rate . None of the workers was , however, named by him . 
He did not keep any note of the payments and it is not clear from his statement 
that he actually saw any payment. RW 59 Tripit Singh has denied his story and 
two other witnesses from Sahit - RWS. 36 and 38 - have also denied that the res 
pondent no . 1 had any election once at Sahit to which workers were attached . 
His solitary evidence cannot be believed in the face of such denials . The same 
is the case with PW . 104 who has said that there was another election office at 
Ujairpur in chargc of Ram Udgar where 40 workers were maintained for three 
weeks and paid Rs. 5 / - each per day. He does not belong to the village but lives 
five miles off. He also could not name any worker and admitted that he did not 
see any payment to any worker. He was a worker of the petitioner during the 
election . RWS. 47 and 48 from Ujairpur have denied that there was any election 


his evidence . PW . 102 gave evidence that there was an election ofllce of the res 
pondent No . 1 at Deo Narain Shah s gaddi at Dalsingsarai where 70 or 80 workers 
were employed for five weeks and paid @ Rs. 5 / - per head per day and that Sita 
ram Pankaj was in charge of the office . This was corroborated by PWs. 103 , 1 . 
110 , 112 and 116 . None of them , however , named any worker or proved any p 
ment to any particular worker on any particular date or could give any idea of 
the total amount paid to the workers . It is not even clear that any of them actually 
saw any payment. Their evidence is altogether vague and indefinite and cannot 
therefore be relied upon . Both Deo Narain Shah (RW 60 ) and Sitaram Pankaj 
( RW . 65 ) have denied that any election office was maintained at Dalsingsaral or 
that any payment was made to the workers and Banwari Babu has also denied 
it . According to the respondent No. 1 s witnesses , the workers all rendered hono 
rary service. It may be that sometimes the workers were fed and RW . 10 has 
stated that the workers attached to the Samastipur election office used to get their 
food from the office. But there were only 25 or 30 workers attached to this office 
and the petitioner s witnesses have not indicated that there were more. In fact 
the petitioner has given no evidence about this office at all, Even If no account 
war kept of the expenses incurred for feeding these workers and the amount was 
not disclosed in the account of election expenses, that would not constitute corrupt 
practice without proof that the amount prescribed under Rule 90 had been exceeded 
thereby . The High Court of Patna has held in the case of Chandra Sekhar Singh 
Vs. Sarjoo Prasad Singh , reported in AIR . 1961 Patna 189, that only if a candi 
date s election expenditure exceeds the maximum amount in violation of sub - sec . 
( 3 ) of sec . 77 , he will be gullty of having resorted to a corrupt practice and that 
more omission of certain items in the account of expenditure is not a corrupt 
practice , even though it could be shown that the omission was intentional. Thus 
in order to establish the commission of a corrupt practice under sub -sec . ( 6 ) of 
Sec . 123 It will not be sufficient to prove that certain items of expenses incurred 


Sec . 3 (ii) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 , 1965 / PHALGUNA 8, 1886 


775 


in connection with the election had not been included in the account of election 
expenses ; it will also have to be proved that the total of these items of expenses, 
when added to the amount shown in the said account, will exceed the maximum . 
Such proof is lacking in this case. The cost of feeding 25 or 30 workers for a 
month or so in this election office could not have been much as the total amount 
of food charges at all the election offices numbering nine has been estimated in 
annexure F at Rs. 10 , 000 / -. But the existence of no other election office with 
workers attached has been proved and even the addition of Rs. 10 ,000 / - to the 
amount shown in the account of election expenses would not exceed the maximum . 
I And accordingly that no corrupt practice under sub - sec. (8 ) of Sec. 123 has been 
committed in respect of this item , 


54 . Finally it was alleged that certain telephone bils had not been included in 
the account of election expenses. In this connection a bill was called from the 
telephone authorities which related to Trunk calls from telephone no . 98 Samasti 
pur standing in the name of Hon ble Minister , Parliamentary Affairs, New Delhi 
And amounted to Rs. 972 / - ( Ex . 12 ) . In the account of election expenses a sum 
of Rs. 300 / - has been included as representing the probable trunk call charges, 
the hill therefor not having been receiyed . PW . 122 , the head clerk of the Accounts 
Department of Telephone Revenue, Patna who produced this bill stated that the 
amount had not been realised . It is quite possible that this bill which is dated 
19th March 1962 had not been received before the lodging of the account of election 
expenses on 26th March 1962. Banwari Babu has admitted that this telephone 
was installed at the election offlce at Samastipur and was used for election pur 
poses and said that as no bill was received an approximate amount was mentioned 
in the account of election expenses . The omission of the amount of this bill in 
the said account was not therefore intentional and is easily explained . Reference 


the respondent no. 1 had been staying at the time of election . This was telephone 
no. 12 standing in the name of Thakur Prasad . It has not been proved , however , 
that trunk calls made from this telephone were for the purposes of the election , 
Banwari Bahu has no doubt said that his father used to make trunk calls from 
this telephone but it cannot be presumed therefrom that all such trunk calls were 
for election purposes. The respondent no. 1 , as a Minister of the Central GOV 
ernment staying away from the capital at that time, must be presumed to have 
had occasions to make several trunk calls for official business and other purposes 
also . He has denied that he himself made any trunk call for election propaganda , 
The trunk call charges in respect of this telephone amounted to Rs. 360 20 nP ., in 
January and Rs. 976 .65 np . in Feb . 1962 , according to Exs . 13 and 13 ( a ) , extracts 
from the register of trunk call bills produced by PW . 122 which also show that 
a sum of Rs. 390 . 15 OP . was due for trunk calls from telephone no, 98 in Jan , 1962, 
Ex . 13 ( b ) . Even if it be assumed that all these trunk calls were for election pur 
poses , the total of these amounts together with Rs. 972 / - added to the amount 
shown in the account of election expenses, would not exceed the maximum and , 
therefore, on the authority of the decision of Patna High Court referred to above 
no corrupt practice under sub - sec. (6 ) of sec. 123 can be said to have been com 
mitted . This disposes of issue no. 3 as no proof was given of any corrupt practice 
committed under sub -sec . ( 7 ) of Sec. 123. 


55 . Issue No. 4 . – This issue is covered by my findings above . The total of the 
expenditure incurred and authorised by the respondent no. 1 or his election agent 
in connection with the clection did not exceed the prescribed amount, 


56 . Issue No. 5 .— This issue was not pressed and no Infringement of the nrovi 
sions of the Constitution or non - compliance with any of the sections of the Repre 
sentation of People Act, 1951 was given in evidence . 


37. Issue No . 6 . - In view of the findings above the election is not liable to be 
set aside and the petitioner cannot be declared elected and is not entitled to any 
rellet . 


HENCE ORDERED 


That the election petition be dismissed with costs which in view of the protract 
ed hearing are assessed at Rs. 2 , 000 ) - to be paid by the petitioner to the respon 


776 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965 / PHALGUNA 8, 1886 [PART II 


dent no . 1 . In view of the order passed in para 11 of the judgment the petitioner 
should also pay the costs of respondent no . 5 which I assess at Rs. 50 / 


( Sd .) P . K . SARKAR , 

11 - 1 -65 

Member, 
Election Tribunal, Patna , 


" Typed to my dictation and corrected by me. 
( Sd .) P K . Sarkar . 


[No . 82 / 294 / 62, ] 

By Order , 
PRAKASH NARAIN , Secy . 


MINISTRY OF LAW 

New Delhi , the 16th February 1965 
$ . 0 , 657. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( 1 ) of article 299 of 
the Constitution , the President hereby directs that all contracts and other instru 
ments required to be made in the exercise of the executive power of the Union , 
in connection with the purchase of animals from non - official guppliers in Italy and 


be executed on his behalf by the First Secretary (Commercial), Embassy of India , 
Rome and Paris respectively . 

[No. F . 17 ( 1) ,/65 - J.] 
G . K , PURANIK , Dy. Legal Adviser. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 17th February 1965 
S . O . 658 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Companies Act , 1949 ( 10 of 1949 ) , the Central Government, on the recommenda 
tion of the Reserve Bank of India , hereby declares that the provisions of section 


City , in respect of the properties ( comprising three houses and two shops ) hold 
by it at Rupar , District Ambala , Punjab , till the 3rd January , 1966 . 

[No. F . 15 ( 1) -BC /64.] 
B . J . HEERJEE , Under Secy. 


(Department of Economie Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 18th February 1965 
S . O . 659 . - Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India Bankirg Department as on the 12th February , 1965. 


.3 


. 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


- 


GA 


Capital Paid up 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


7 ,70,37 ,000 

4 ,88,000 
11,84,000 


. 


. 


. 


Reserve Fund . . 
National AgriculturalCredit 

(Long Term Operations) Fund 


5 ,00,00,000 Notes 

. . . . 
Rupee Coin . . . . 
80 , 00 , 00 ,000 Small Coin . . . . 

Bills Purchased and Discounted : 
86 ,00 , 00 , 000 (a ) Internal . . . 

(b ) External . . . 
9 , 00 , 00 ,000 

Balances Held Abroad * . . 
Investments* * 


NationalAgriculturalCredit (Stabilisation ) Fund . 


. 


. 


. 
: 


. 
: 


64 , 17,60 ,000 

4 ,60, 29 ,000 
178 ,92,58, 000 


OFINDIA:FEBRUARY27,1965/PHALGUNA8,1886 


National Industrial Credit 
(Long Term Operations) Fund 
Deposits : 


10 ,00 ,00 ,000 


Loans and Advances to : 

( ) CentralGovernment . 

( i ) State Governments @ 
Loans and Advances to : 

( ) Scheduled Bankst . . 
( it) State Co -operative Bankstt 


44 , 63 , 16 , 000 


. 
. 


95 , 10 ,71,000 
154 ,01, 26 , 000 


. 


. 


. 


1 ,84 ,98 ,000 


(a ) Government 

(1) Central Government 
(11) State Governments . 


. (ii) Others , . . . 
52 ,41,01, 000 Loans, Advances and Investments from National Agricul 


. 


. 


777 


778 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


(b) Banks 


27 ,75 ,15 ,000 
11,05,75,000 


(D ) Scheduled Banks 
(it) State Co- operative Banks 
( 111) Other Banks 


( a ) Loans and Advances to : 

(1) State Govemments 

( 31) State Co- operative Banks 
92 , 85, 38 , 000 ( 111) Central Land Mortgage Banks 
2 ,82448 ,000 (b ) Investment in Central Land Mortgage Bank Deben 
6 , 76 .000 

tures : 
Loans and Advances from National Agricultural Credit 

( Stabilisation ) Fund 

Loans and Advances to State Co- operative Banks 
149,03, 78 , 000 Loans, Advances and Investments from National Industrial 

Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund 


4 , 45 , 53, 000 


(c ) Others 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:FEBRUARY271965/PHALGUNA8,1886 


Bills Payable 


53 , 13 , 99, 000 


(a ) Loans and Advances to the Development Bank . 


50 , 18 ,000 


(b) Investment in bonds debentures issued by 

Development Bank 


the 


Other Liabilities 


32 , 09,63, 000 


69, 05, 25, 000 Other Assets 
627, 03 , 91, 000 


Rupees 


Rupees 


627 ,03 ,91, 000 


* Includes Cash and Short-term Securities . 
* * Excluding lavestments from the National Agricultural Credit ( Long Term Operations) Fund and the National Industrial Credit (Lcng Term Oper 

ations) Fund . 
@ Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund , but including temporary Overdrafts to 

State Governments . 
f Includes Rs. 12 ,21 ,50 ,000 advanced to scheduled banks against usance bills under Section 17 (4 ) (c ) of the R . B . I. Act. 
# Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit ( Long Term Operations) Fund and the National Agricultural Credit 

(Stabilisation ) Fund . 


[PART11 


Dated the 17th day of February , 1965. 


- 


Án Account pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act , 1934, for the week ended the 13th day of February , 1965 

ISSUE DEPARTMENT 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. 


Rs. 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


Rs. 


- 


Notes held in the Banking Department. 


7 , 70 , 37 ,000 
2597 , 91, 41, 000 


Gold Coin and Bullics : 

u Held in India . 
16 Held outside India 


128 , 42, 72 , 000 


Notes in circulation 


. 
GAL 


Total Notes issued 


2605 ,61 ,78 , 000 


74379 , 07 , 000 


OF 


Foreign Securities . . . 

TOTAL 
Rupee Coin 
Government of India Rupee Securities 
Internal Bills of Exchange and 

her commercial raper 


203,21, 79 , 000 

96 ,01,71.000 
2306 , 38 , 58 ,000 


TOTAL - LIABILITIES 


2605,61,78, 000 


TOTAL ASSETS 


2605 ,61,78 , 000 


P . C . BHATTACHARIYA , 

Gotemor . 


Dited the 17th day of February , 1965 . 


No . F.3(2)-BC /65 
R . K . SESHADRI, 

Director (Banking ) 


A 
: 
. 
. 
A 
27 
, 
1965 
/ 
PHALGUNA 
8 
, 
1886 


779 


780 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965 / PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 


PART II 


(Department of Revenue ) 

New Delhi, the 19th February , 1965 
$ . 0 . 660 , - In pursuance of suh -rule ( 7 ) of rule 126HH , read with rule 126X . 
of the Defence of India Rules , 1962, the Central Government hereby directs that 
the following amendments shall be made in the Schedule to the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue ) No. F . 
3 2 / 84 -GC . II dated the 28th January, 1984, namely : -- 
In the said Schedule, 

( 1 ), columns 6 , 10 and 11 shall be omitted ; 
( 2 ) columns 7 to 9 shall be re -numbered as columns 6 to 8 ; 
( 3 ) the existing Note shall be numbered as Note 1 and after the Note as so 

numbered , the following Note shall be added , namely : — 
" Note 2 . - Gold as well as ornaments received by certified goldsmiths in 

accordance with the provisions of sub - rule ( 9 ) ot rule 126HH shall 
also be accounted for in this . Where a certifled goldsmith posses 
sing equipment for drawing wires or for die -casting receives gold 
obtained by melting old ornaments , he shall specify the quantity of 
such gold in column 4 ." , 

No. F . 3 / 2 / 64 -GC . II ) 
B . D . PANDE , Addi, Secy . 


(Department of Revenue ) 

CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 27th February , 1965 
S . O . 661, — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of section 7 of 
the Customs Act , 1962 (52 of 1962 ) the Central Government hereby appoints 
Mandapam in the State of Madrrs as a customs port for the unloading of imported 
goods and the loading of export goods. 

[No. 38 / F . No. 14 / 1 / 65 -L . C .II .) 
G . P . DURAIRAJ, Dy. Secy . 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE , ALLAHABAD 

Allahabad , the 2nd February , 1965 . 
S . O . 662 . - In exercise of the powers conferred upon me under Rule 5 of the 
Central Excise Rules, 1944, I hereby delegate to all Assistant Collectors of Central 
Excise in Allahabad Collectorate , the power under Rule 56 - A of the Central Excise 
Rules , 1944, to deal with applications within their respective jurisdiction . They 
should , however , endorse to this office a copy of the permission granted by then . 

[No, 1 / CE / 65 . 1 
B . D . DESHMUKH , Collector, 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE , BANGALORE 

CENTRAL EXCISES 

Bangalore, the 3rd February , 1965 
S . O . 663 . - In cxercise of the powers conferred upon me under Rule 5 of the 
Central Excise Rules, 1944 , I hereby empower the Assistant Collectors of Central 
Excisc , in this Collectorate to exercise within their respective jurisdiction , the 
powers vested in me under Rule 56A of Central Excise Rules , 1944 , 

INO, 1 /65. ] 
V . PARTHASARATHY , 


MINISTRY OF STEEL & MINES 

(Department of Mines & Metals ) 

New Delhi, the 17th February 1965 
SO , 164, Whereas it appears to the Central Government that coal is likely 
to be obtained from the lands mentioned in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 4 of the Coal Bearing Areas ( Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957 ( 20 
of 1957 ) , the Central Government hereby gives notice of its intention to prospect 
for coal therein , 


SEC . 8 ( 11 ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 , 1965 / PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 


781 


The plan of the area covered by this notification can be inspected at the office 
of the National Coal Development Corporation Ltd ., (Revenue Section ) , Darbhanga 
House , Ranchi or at the Office of the Deputy Commissioner , Dhanbad or at the 
office of the Coal Controller , 1, Council House Street , Calcutta . 


All persons interested in the lands mentioned in the said Schedule shall deliver 
all maps, charts and other documents referred to in sub - section ( 7 ) of section 13 
of the said Act to the Revenue Oncer of the National Coal Development Corpora 
tion Ltd ., Darbhanga House , Ranchi, within 90 days from the date of publication 
of this notification , 

SCHEDULE 

Drg . No. Rev / 39 / 64 

Dated 26 .5 .64, 
( Showing lands notified 

for prospecting ) 
MAHAL BLOCK 
( Jharia Coalfield ) 


Serial 
No. 


Village 


Thana 


Thana 
No. 


District 


Area 


Remarks 


Chas 


Dhanbad 


I Karadi 
2 Kendylia 
3 Mahal 
4 Naradi 
5 Shibbabudi 
6 Kulshara 
7 Sitanala 
8 Banshara 
9 Tilatant 


214 
215 
225 
226 
227 


Full 
Part 
Part 
Full 


Part 


NNN 


229 


ANNNN 


Full 
Part 
Part 
Part 


Total Area : 2120 . 00 acres (approximately ) 

or 858 60 meteres (approximately) , 
Boundary description : 
AMB Line passes along the common boundary of villages Amlabad and 

Mahal, Amlabad & Karadi, Part common boundary of Amlabad & 

Kendulia and meets at point B . 
B - C line passes through villages Kendulia , Tilatanr & Mahal (which is part 

common boundary of Parbatpur Block notified u / s 4 ( 1 ) of Coal Act 

vide s . o . No. 42 dated 28th December , 1963 , and meets at piont C . 
C - D linc passes through village Mahal and meets at point D . 
D - E line passes along the common boundary of villages Mahal & 

Manpur, Naradi & Manpur, Banshara & Manpur, Banshara & Chak 
parbad , part common boundary of villages Banshara & Pathargarha 

meets at point E . 
E - F line passes through villages Banshara , Sitanala , Shibbabudi and along 

the part common boundary of villages Shibkabudi & Sitanala and 

meets at point F . 
F - - A line passes along the part right bank of Damodar River which is part 

common boundary of Tharia Chas and Thana Jharia and meets at 
point A . 

(No. C2-20 (23 ) / 64 .] 
K . SUBRAHMANYAN , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY AND SUPPLY 

(Department of Industry ) 

New Delhi, the 15th February , 1965 
S . O . 665 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 of 
the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules further to amend 
the Patent Office (Class III) Recruitment Rules, 1962 , namely : 

1. These rulcs may be called the Patent Office (Class III ) Recruitment (Amend . 
ment ) Rules , 1965 . 


782 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965 / PHALGUNA 8, 1886 


[PART II 


2 . In the Patent Office (Class III ) Recruitment Rules , 1982 , rule 4 shall be 
lettered as sub -rule ( a ) thereof and after sub - rule ( a ) as so lettered , the 
following sub - rule shall be inserted , namely : 
" ( b ) Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules , out of the total 

number of permanent vacancies in any of the said posts to be Alled 
by direct recruitment, not more than one - third may be Alled by trans 
fer from among the employees of the State Governments concerned , 
in accordance with the general instructions issued by the Central 

Government from time to time. 
NOTE , - For this purpose there should be a minimum of three permanent 

vacancies to be filled by direct recruitment during a particular calen 
dar year." 

[No. F . 18 (9 ) - TMP /84 - II/ P & D .] 


New Delhi, the 16th February , 1965 
S . O . 666 .-- In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 of 
the Constitution , the President Thereby makes the following rules further to 
amend the Patent Office Class IV Recruitment Rules , 1958 , namely : 

1. These rules may be called the Patent Office Class IV Recruitment (Amend 
ment) Rules, 1965 . 

2 . In the Patent Office Class IV Recruitment Rules, 1958, rule 2 shall be letter 
ed as sub - rule ( a ) thereof and after sub - rule ( a ) as so lettered , the following sub 
rule shall be inserted , namely : 
“ ( b ) Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules out of the total 

number of permanent vacancies in any of the said posts to be Alled 
by direct recruitment, not more than one - third may be filled by trans 
fer from among the employees of the State Governments concerned , 
in accordance with the general instructions issued by the Central 

Government from time to time. 
NOTE .-- For this purpose there should be a minimum of three permanent 

vacancies to be filled by direct recruitment during a particular calen 
dar year." 

[No. F . 18 ( 9 ) - TMP / 64 . I / P & D .) 

HARGUNDAS, Under Secy . 


(Departmentof Industry ) 
Indian Standards Institution 

New Delhi, the 16th February , 1965 
S . O . 667 - In pursuance of sub - regulation ( 1 ) of regulation 8 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulatons, 1955, the Indian 
Standards Institution hereby notifies that thirteen licences , particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed , have been granted authorizing 
the licensees to use the Standard Mark . 


SEC.3(11)] 


THE SCHEDULE 


Licence No. 

and Date 


of Validity 


Period 
From 


Name and Address of the 

Licensee 


Article /Process covered 

by the Licence 


Relevant Indian Standard 


To 


1. CM /L - 990 

II - I - 1965 


16 - 1 -65 


IS : 10 - 1964 Specification for 

Plywood Tea - Chests (Second 
Reorsion ) 


2 . CM / L -991 

21- 1 -1965 


IS : 303 - 1960 Specification for 

Plywood for General Purposes 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:FEBRUARY27,1985/PHALGUNA8,1886783 


3 . CM /L - 992 

25 - 1 - 1965 


15 - 1 - 66 M / s. Asiatic Plywood Indus- Tea -Chest Plywood Panels 

tries , Barrackpore, Trunk 
Road , Panihati , 24- Parga 
ganas , having their Office 
at 30 , Strand Road , Cal 

cutta I . 
31- 1 -66 M /s . Assam Forest Products Plywood for General Purposes 

Pvt . Ltd ., Makum Junction , 
Assam , having their Office 

at Dibrugarh (Assam ). 
31 - 1 -66 M / s . Yavalkar Insecticides Formulations Based on Phenyl 

and Chemicals , 20 Indus- Mercury Acetate 
trial Estate Ramptee Road , 
Nagpu - 4 , having their 
Office at Khare Town , 

Dharampeth , Nagpur - 1 . 
31- 1-66 M /s. Indiclay , Plot No. 2, BHC Dusting Powders 

Udyog Nagar, Goregaon , 

Bombay -62 . 
31 - 1 - 66 M /s. All India Medical Corp , DDT Dusting Powders · 

Simpoli Road , Borivli West , 
Bombay -66 , having their 


1 - 2 - 65 


IS : 2357 - 1963 Specification for 

Formulations Based 
Phenyl Mercury Acetate , 


4 . CM / L -993 

25 - 1 - 1965 


1 -2 -65 


IS : 561 - 1962 Specification for 

BHC Dusting Powders , 
IS : 564 - 1961 Specification for 

DDT Dustin Powders, 


5 . CM / L - 994 

25 - 1 - 1965 


1 - 2 - 65 


Bombay - 2 . 


PS 


784 


4 


6 CM / L -995 

25 - 1 - 1965 


1 - 2 -65 


31- 1 - 66 


IS : 1310 - 1958 Specification for 

Endrin Emulsifiable Con 
centrates 


1 - 2 -65 


3 1 - 1- 66 


7 CM / L - 996 

25 - I - 1965 


M / s. All India Medical Corpn ., Endrin Emulsifiable Concen - 

Simpoli Road, Boriyli West , trates 
Bombay -66 , having their 
office at 185, Princess Street, 

Bombay - 2 
M /s. All India Medical Corpn., Copper Oxychloride Water 

Simpoli Road , Borivli West, Dispersible Powder Concen - 
Bombay - 66 , having their office trates 
at 185 , Princes Street, Bom 

bay - 2 
The Omega Insulated Cable (1) PVC Lasulated Cables , 
Co . India Ltd , 

Uasheathed with Copper 
Plot Nos. 16 and 17 Industrial Conductor, 650 Volts Grade 

Estate , Ambattur, Madras -53, 
having their office at 122 / 2 , (t1) PVC Insulated Cables , 
Mount Road , Madras - 6 

Unsheathed with Aluminium 

Conductor, 250 Volts Grade 


IS : 1507 - 1959 Specification for 

Copper Oxychloride Water 
Dispersible Powder Con 
centrates 


1 - 2 -65 


31 - 1 -66 


8 CM / L - 997 

25- 1 - 1965 


IS : 694 ( Part D - 1964 Specifi 
cation for PVC Insulated 
Cables For Voltages up to 
IICOV) Part I with Copper 
Conductors (Retiseut ) 
IS : 694 ( Part II ) 1964 

Specification for PVC 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:FEBRUARY271965/PHALGUNA8,1886 


tages upto 1100 V ) Part II 
with Aluminium Con 
ductors (Revised ) 


9 


16 - 2 -65 


15 - 2 - 66 


CM / L -998 

27 - 1 - 1965 


I 


31 - 1 - 66 


10 CML- 999 

29 - 1 - 1965 


M /s. M . L . Day & Co., 28 B . T , Steel Drums, 20 Litres Capa - IS : 2552 - 1963 Specification for 
Road , Gossipore , Calcutta -2 , city ,Grade B (Uogalvanized ) Steel Drums (Galvanized 
having their office at 57 - B , 

and Ungalvanized ) 
Chittaranjan Avenue, 

cutta - 12 
M s. Rajasthan Industrial and Water Meters (Domestic Type ) IS : 779- 1961 Specification for 
Scientific Corporation , 39 , 15 mm Size 

Water Meters Domestic 
Industrial Area , Jhotwara , 

Type ) 
(Jaipur West ), Jaipur having 
their office at Rahul Meters , 

Chaura Rasta , Jaipur. 
M /s . Moti Electric Industries, PVC Insulated & PVC Shea - IS : 694 (Part I) 1964 Specifica 
15 - A Najafgarh Road , New thed Cables with Copper 

thed Cables with Copper tion for PVC Insulated 
Delhi- 15 . 

Conductor , 250 Volts Grade Cables (For Voltages upto 
Ü ) PVC Insulated Cables , 1100 Volts ) with Copper 

Unsheathed with Copper Conductors (Revised ) 
Conductor, 650 Volts Grade 


I 


28 - 2 - 66 


29 - 1 - 1965 


(PART11 


I2 CM / L - 1001 

29- 1 - 1965 


1- 3 -65 


28 - 2 - 66 


IS : 996 - 1959 Specification for 
Small AC and Universal 

Electric Motors with Class 
A Insulation 
IS : 2711 - 1964 Specification for 

Laboratory Deflection pH 


Stc.3(ii)] 


13 CM /L -1002 

29- 1 - 1965 


M / s . Nielcon Private Ltd ., Fractional Horse Power Three - 

37 - F , Parel Road , Cross Phase Squirrel Cage In 
Lane, Chinchpokli, Bon - duction Motors 

bay - 12 
M /s. Electronic & Industrial Laboratory Deflection 

Instruments Co . Pyt. Ltd ., pH Meters 
B - 17 , Industrial Estate , 
Sanatnagar, Hyderabad -18 


1 -3 - 65 


28 - 2 - 66 


Towe 


[No. MD / 33 : 16 ] 


A 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:FEBRUARY27,1965/PHALGUNA8,1886 


! 


785 


788 


S . O . 668. - In pursuance of sub - regulation ( 1 ) of regulation 8 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certiication Marks) Regulations, 1955, as amended 
in 1961, 1962 and 1964 , the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that fortynine licences, particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto 
annexed , have been renewed . 


THE SCHEDULE 


Serial Licence No . 
No. and date 


Name and address of the lic - 


Article( s) covered by the licence 


Relevant Indian Standard 


Period of validity 
From Το 


ensee 


1. CM /L -44 , 

20 - 1- 1958 


1- 2 -65 


31- 1 -66 M /s. Shalimar Tar Products Naphthalene 

( 1935 ) Ltd. , 6 , Lyons Range , 

Calcutta . 
31 - 1 - 66 M /s . Hunsur Plywood Works , Tea -Chest Plywood Panels 

P . O . Hunsur (Mysore State ) . 


1 


- 2 -65 


CM / L -47 

20 - 1 - 1958 
3 . CM / L - 50 

20- 1 - 1958 


IS : 539 - 1955 Specifica 

tion for Naphthalene . 
IS : 10 - 1953 Specifica 

tion for Plywood Tea 

Chests . (Revised ). 
IS : 10 - 1953 Specification 

for Plywood Tea - Chests 

(Reprised ) . 
IS ; 10 - 1953 Specification 
for Plywood Tea - Chests 
(Revised ). 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:FEBRUARY271965/PHALGUNA8,1886[PARTII 


1 


4 . CM / L -51 

20 - I - 1958 


CM {L -52 
20 - 1 - 1958 


1 - 2 - 65 31- 1 -66 M /s . East India Plywood Co. Tea - Chest Plywood Panels 

Pvt Ltd ., 2 , Netaji Subhas 

Road , Calcutta 
- 2 -6531- 1 -66 M / s. Jaypore Timber and Ven - Tea - Chest Plywood Panels 

eer Mills Pvt. Ltd ., Dibru 
garh , Distt. Lakhimpur (Up 

per Assam ). 
1 -2 -65 31 -1 -66 The Malabar Plywood Works, Tea -Chest Plywood Panels 

Cheruvannur, Feroke (Kerala 

State ). 
I-2 -65 31 -1 -66 M /s. South India Plywood In - Tea - Chest Plywood Panels 

dustries , Market Landing , 

Kottayam (Kerala State ). 
1-2 -65 31 -1 -66 The Great Indian Plywood Manu Tez -Chest Plywood Panels 

facturing Co ., 76 , Jessore Road , 

Dum Dum , Calcutta - 28 . 
1-2 - 65 
1 -2 -65 31- 1 -66 M /s. Assam Valley Plywood Tea -Chest Plywood Panels 

Pvt. Ltd ., 67B , Netaji Subhas 

Road , Calcutta - I . 
1 - 2 - 65 31- 1 - 66 M /s . Assam Bengal Veneer In - Tea - Chest Plywood Panels 

dustries Pvt. Ltd ., 9, Clive 
Row , Calcutta - I. (Factory 
Calcutta ). 


CM / L -53 

20 - 1 - 1958 
CM /L - 56 

20 - 1- 1958 
8 . CM /L -57 

20 - I- 1958 


IS : 10 - 1953 Specification 

for Plywood Tea - Chests 

(Rediset ). 
IS : 10 - 1953 Specification 
for Plywood Tea - Chests 

(Rerised ) 
IS : 10 - 1993 Specification 

for Plywood Tea - Chests 

(Requiset ) . 
IS : 10 - 1953 Specification 

for Plywood Tea - Chests 

(Reiset). 
IS : 10 - 1953 Specification 

for Plywood Tea -Chests 
(Revised ) . 


CM /L - 58 
20 - I - 1958 


10. CMI- E 1-2-65 31-1-66 


IO . CM / L - 59 

20 - 1 - 1958 


SEC,3(ii)] 


II. CM / L - 60 

20 - 1 - 1958 
12 . CM /L -85 

247 - 4 - 1958 


9 - 1 - 1959 


- 


14 . CM / L - 114 

9- 1- 1959 
15. CM /L -146 

28 - 9 - 1959 


16 . CM /L - 156 

20 - 11 - 1959 


I-2 -65 31-1 -66 M /s. Assam Bengal Veneer In - Tea - Chest Plywood Panels 

IS : 10 - 1953 Specification 
dustries Pvt. Ltd ., 9 , Clive 

for Plywood Tea -Chest 

(Revised) . 
Doillabari ) . 
1 - 2 -65 31- 1 - 66 The Standard Furniture Co . Ltd . Tea - Chest Plywood Panels 

IS : 10 - 1953 Specification 
Kallai, Kozhikode- 3 (Kera 

for Plywood Tea -Chests 
la State ) . 

( Revised ) . 
9- 1 -65 31- 12 - 66 M /s. Hindusthan Timber In - Tea - Chest Plywood Panels 

IS : 10 - 1953 Specification 
dustries , 41, Chaulpatty Road , 

for Plywood Tea - Chests 
Beliaghata Calcutta - 10 . 

(Rarised ), 
1-2 -65 31- 1-66 M /s. Phoenix Plywood , Kotta - Tea - Chest Plywood Panels 

IS : 10 - 1953 Specification 
yam , Kerala . 

for Plywood Tea - Chests 

(Raiseu ). 
1-2 -65 31- 1 -66 M /s. Venus Plywood Company, Tea -Chest Plywood Panels 

IS : 10 - 1953 Specification 
Nemmara P . O ., Kerala . 

for Plywood Tea - Chests 

(Rerised ) . 
5 - 1 -6531- 1 -66 Mi/s. Bharat Pulverising Mills BHC Water Dispersible Powder Concentrates IS : 562 - 1962 Specifica 
Pvt. Ltd ., 38- A , Sayani Road, 

tion for BHC Water 
Bombay- 28 , 

Dispersible Powder 
Concentrates ( Second 

Retrsion ). 
1 - 2 - 65 31- 1- 66 M /s. Sulekha Works Limited , Ferto - Gallo Tannate Fountain Pen Ink (O I per IS : 220 - 1959 Specifica 
Sulekha Park , Jadavpur , Cal- cent iron content). 

tion for Ferro -Gallo 
cutta - 32 . 

Tannate Fountain Pen 
Ink ( O . 1 percent Iron 

Content) (Revised). 
1 - 2 -6531- 1 -66 The Aluminium Industries Lim - Steel Core and Plain Stranded Aluminium I S : 398 - 1961 Specifica 

ited , Hirakud , Sambalpur Dr. Conductors of all types and sizes specified in tion for Hard -Drawn St 
(Orissa State ). IS : 398 - 1961. 

randed Aluminium & Steel 

Cred Alumninium 
Conductors for Overhead 
Power Transmission 

Purposes (Revised ) . 
1- 2 -65 31- 1 -66 The Indian Iron and Steel Co . Flushing Cisterns 

IS : 774 - 1960 Specification 
Ltd. , 12 , Mission Row , Cal 

for flushing cisterns for 
cutta - I , 

Water Cir sets and Urinals 

(Valveless Syphonic 

Type ) (Retised ). 
1 - 2 -65 31 - 1 - 66 Ms. Patiala Biscuits Manufac - Biscuits (Excluding Wafer Biscuits) 

IS : 1011 - 1957 Specifica 
turers Private Ltd , Rajpura. 

tion for Biscuits (Exclud 
Punjab ) . 

ing Wafer Biscuits ). 
15 - 1 - 65 15 - 1 - 66 Ms. Tata - Fison Industries Ltd ., BHC Dusting Powders 

IS : 561- 1962 Specifica 
Pandit Motilal Nehru Road , 

tion for BHC Dustin , 
Jamuna Kipara, Agra (U .P .). 

Powders ( Second Rezision 


17. COMPETITIE 1265 3 :46 


17 . CML- 158 

15 - 1 - 1960 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:FEBRUARY27,1965/PHALGUNA8,1886787 


18 . CM /L - 160 

15 - 1 - 1960 


19. CELTA 


19 . CML - 161 

15 - 1 - 1960 


1-2-65 31-1-86 


CM / L -215 
29- 8 - 1960 


788 


21 CM /L - 226 

160- 1960 


1 


- 2 -65 


22 CM /L - 233 

18 - 10 - 1960 


25- 1-65 


31- 1 - 66 M /s. Sulekha Works Limited , Dye- Based Fountain Pen Ioks, Blue , Green , and 

Sulekha Park , Jadavpur, Cal- Red . 

cutta - 32 . 
15 -1 -66 Ms. Great Eastern Cutlery Pruning Kaives, Hosked & Curved 

Works, 20 , Strand Road , Cal 

cutta . 
15 -1-66 M /s. Tata -Fison Industries Ltd ., Copper Oxychloride Dusting Powders 

Palluruthy , Cochin - 5 . 
15 - 1- 66 Ms. Tata - Fison Industries Copper Oxychloride Water Dispersible Powder 

Ltd ., Palluruthy , Cochin - 5. Concentrates 


15-1-65 


23 CM /L - 256 , 

29 - 12- 1960 
21 CM /L - 257 

29 - 12 - 1960 


15 - 1- 65 


25 CM / L - 259 , 

13 - 1- 1961 


15 - 1 - 65 15 - 1 -66 M s, G . M . C . Himmo Limited , 18 - Litre Square Tins 

Kamlanagar , Subzimandi, 

Delhi- 6 . 
1 - 2 - 6531 - 1 -66 Mís. Flintock Products Private DDT Water Dispersible Powder Conæntrates 

Ltd ., Belvedere Road, Maza 
gaon , Bombay - 10 . 


26 CM / L - 269, 

30 - 1 - 1961 


IS : 1221- 1957 Specifica 
tion Dye Based Fountain 
Pen Inks (Blue , Green , 

Violet, Black & Red ), 
IS : 619 - 1961 Specifica 

tion for Pruning Knives , 
Hooked and Curved. 

(Retrised ). 
IS : 1506 - 1959 Specifica 
tion for Copper Oxy ch 

loride Dusting Powders . 
IS : 1507 - 1959 Specifica 
tion for Copper Oxy 
chloride Water Disper 
sible Powder Content 

rates . 
IS : 916 - 1958 Specifica 
tion for 18 - Litre Square 

Tins . 
IS : 565 - 1961 Specifica 
tion for DDT Water Dis 
persible Powder Con 

centrates (Revised ). 
IS : 632- 1958 Specifica 

tion for BHC Emulsifi 
able Concentrates , (Re 

viseu ). 
IS : 1563 - 1960 Specifica 
tion for Metal Clad Swi 
tches (Current Rating 
not exceeding 100 am 
peres ). 
IS : 10 - 1953 Specifica 
tion for Plywood Tea 

Chests . (Rezised ). 
IS : 1834- 1961 Specifica 
tion for Hot Applied 
Sealing Compounds for 
Joints in Concrete . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:FEBRUARY271965/PHALGUNA8,1886 


27 CM / L - 372 , 

II - 1 - 1962 


1 - 2 - 6531- 1 - 66 M /S. Tata - Fison Industries Ltd . BHC Emulsifiable Conæntrates 

Pandit Motilal Nehru Road , 
Jamna Kinara , Agra . 


28 CM / L - 374 , 

II - I - 1962 


1- 2 -6531- 1- 66 


M / s, Abrol Engineering Co ., Metal Clad Switches (Capacity 15 , 30 and 60 amo 

Circular Road , Kapurthala eres, DP , TP , 250 Volts and 500 Volts). 


29 CML- 376 , 

16 - 1 - 1962 


1 - 2 -65 


30 CM / L -478 , 

29- 11 - 1962 


9- 1-65 


31- 1 - 66 Ms. Surma Valley Sawmills Tea - Chest Plywood Panels 

Private Ltd ., P . O . Bhanga 

bazar , Assam . 
31- 12 -65 M /s. Shalimar Tar Products Hot Applied Sealing Compounds for Joints in 

( 1935 ) Limited , P - 46 . Hide Concrete . 
Extension Road , Kidderpore , 
Calcutta - 23 baving their Offi 
ce at 6 Lyons Range , Calcutta 


[PARTII 


- 1 . 


31 CM / L - 479 

29 - 11- 1962 


9 


- 1 -6531 - 12 -05 Mís . Shalimar Tar Products Preformed Fillers for Expansion in Joint in Con 

( 1935 ) Limited , P - 46 Hide Ex - crete Non -extruding and Resilient Type (Bit 
tension Road , Kidderpore , umen Impregnated Fibre ). 
Calcutta - 23 having their office 
at 6 , Lyons Range , Calcutta - l. 


Sec.3(ii)] 


32 CM /L - 181 

29 - II - 1962 


16 - 1 -65 


15 - 1 -66 Government Central Lock Brass Padiocks 

Factory , Directorate of In 
dustries , Government of West 
Bengal), Bargachia , Distt. M Type Brass Padlocks 
Howrah . 


IS : 1838 - 1961 Specifica - fi 

tion for Preformed Fill 
ers for Expansion Joint 
in Concrete Non -extrud 
ing and Resilent Type 
Gitumen - Impregnated 
Fibre ). 
IS : 275 - 1961 (Specifica 

tion for Padlocks ( Sec 
One Rezsien ). 
IS : 1018 - 1961 Specifi 

cation for M Type Brass 

Padlocks. (Rezised ). 
IS : 789 - 1955 Specifica 
tion for Ink , Drawing 

Waterproof Black . 
IS : 325- 1961 Specifica 
tion for Three-Phase In 
duction Motors ( Second 
Rezisiotz ). 


33 CM /L - 487 

26 - 12 - 1962 


15 -1 -65 


34 CM / L - 489 

26 - 12 - 1962 


15 - 1 -65 


15 - 1- 66 M /s. Sulekha Works Ltd ., Ink , Drawing , Waterproof, Black 

Sulekha Park , Jadavpur, Cal 

cutta -32 . 
15 - 1 -66 M /s . Bhanger Bros , and Co. Pri - Three -Phase Induction Motors upto 3 HP only 

vate Ltd . , 142 /48 Ghodbund 
er Road , Jogeshwari Bombay 
60 having their Registered 
Office at Anand House , 158, 

Kalbadevi Road, Bombay- 2 . 
15 - 1 - 66 M / s. Bhanger Bros . & Co . Pri- Fractional Horse Power Electric Motors . 

vate Ltd ., 142 /48 , Ghodbund 
er Road , Jogeshwari, Bombay 
60 having their Registered Offi 
cat Anand House , 158 , Kalba 

devi Road , Bombay - 2 . 
15 - 1 - 66 M /s . Ganapathy Engineering Metal Clad Switches 15 and 30 amperes of 250 

Manufacturers Private Ltd , Volts and 500 Volts Grade, and 60 and 100 
Ganapathy, Coimbatore - 6 . amſeres of 500 Volts Grade . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA;FEBRUARY27,1965/PHALGUNA8,1886 


35 CM / L - 490 

26 - 12 - 1962 


15 - 1 - 65 


IS : 996 – 1959 Specifica 
tion for Small AC and 
Universal Electric Mot 
ors with Class A Insul 
tion , 


36 CM / L -491 

26 - 12 -62 


15 - 1 -65 


IS : 1567 - 1960 Specifica 
tion for Mietal Clad Swi 

tches (Current Rating 
not exceeding 100 amperes . 
IS : 55 - 1950 Specifica 
tion for Ultramarine Blue 
for Paints . 


37 CM / L - 494 

31 - 12 - 1962 


1 5 - 1 -65 15 - 1 -66 M /s. C . M . C . (India ), Survey Ultramarine Blue for Paints 

No. 529, Near Electricity Sub 
Station , OJhay Road , Abre 

dabad - to . 
15 - 1 -6515 - 1 -66 Ms. Feroke Tile Works, Fero Salt -Glazed Stoneware Pipes and Fittings of Dia 
ke (Kerala State ). 

meter 100 mm , 150 mm , and 300 mm . 


38 CM / L - 495 

31- 12 - 1962 


IS : 651- 1962 Specifica 

tion for Salt -Glazed St 
oncorare Pipes and Fit 
tiogs . (Revised ). 


790 


6 


39 CM L - 496 

9 - 1 - 1963 


15 - 1 -6514 - 1 -66 Ms. Sarvjit Electric Works, Metal Clad Switches , 15 and 30 amperes of 250 & 

Rurka Road, Goraya (N . Rly.) 500 volts Grade and 60 amp. of 500 Volts Grade 
Distt. Jullundur). 


IS : 1567- 1960 Specifica 
tion for Metal Clad Swi 
tches (Current Rating not 

exceeding 100 amperes). 
IS : 10 - 11- 1957 Specifica 

tion for Biscuits (Ex 
cluding Wafer Biscuits). 


40 CM L - 499 

14 - 1 - 1963 


1 


-2 -65 


31- 1 -66 


M /s. Kolay Biscuits Co. Pvt. Biscuits (Excluding Wafer Biscuits ) 

Ltd ., 100 - A , Charakdanga 
Road , Beliaghata , Calcutta - 10 . 


47 CML- 500 

14 + 1 - 1963 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA;FEBRUARY271965/PHALGUNA8,1886 


42 CML- 501 

23 - 1 - 1963 


1 


1 - 2 -6531 - 1 - 66 The Aluminium Industries Ltd . PVC Cables only with Aluminium Conductors IS : 694 (Part 1 - 1964 Spe 
No. 1, Ceramic Factory Road , ( 250 and 650 Volts Grade). 

cification for PVC insu 
Kundara , 

lated Cables (For Volt 
ages upto I 100 V ) with 
Copper Conductors (Re 

prised ) . 
IS 694 (Part II)- 1964 Spe 

cification for PVC In 
sulated Cables ( For Vol 
tages up to I 100 V 
with Aluminium Con 

ductors (Rethset ) , 
- 2- 65 31 - 1- 66 Mis. Tata- Fison Industries Ltd . Endrin Emulsifiable Concentrates 

IS : 1310 - 1958 Specifica 
20 , Howrah Road , Salkia , Cal 

tion for Endrin Emulsi 
cutta having their Head Office 

fiable Concentrates . 
at Union Bank Building, Dal 

al Street , Fort , Bombay - . 
1 - 2 -6531 - 1 - 66 M / s. Asian Cables Corporation 

Type 

Voltage Conductor IS : 694 Part 1) - 1964 Spe 
Ltd ., Kotakwadi, Pokhran Non - Flexible Cables Grade 

cification for PVC In 
Road , Post Box No. II , Thana 

sulated Cables (For 
having their Registered (1) TRS ( Tough Rubber 250 Copper Voltages upto I 100 V ) 
Office at Navsari Building , Sheathed ) 

& 660 ( or Alumi- with Copper Conductors 
2,40 D , Naoroji Road , Fort, 

Volts nrum (Revised ) . 
Bombay - I . 

(6 ) Flame Retrading , 250 volts 
( ii ) TRS with earth Con 

IS : 694 Part II) -1964 Spe 
tinuity Conductor - 250 yolts Copper cification for PVC In 
(iv ) Braided and Com - 250 and Copper or sulated Cables ( For Volt 
pounded 

660 Volts Aluminium ages upto I 100 V ) with 
(C ) Weatherproof , 660 volts Aluminium Aluminium Conductors . 
( ) Flame Retarding : 660 volts Aluminium (Revised ). 


2 


43 CMIL -610 

31- 12- 1963 


43 CM ILGO 1345 314 


[PARTII 


Flexible Cables 


SEC,8(ii)] 


1 


CM / L -611, 
31 - 12 - 1963 


1 - 2 -65 


1 -2 -65 


45 CM / L -612 

31- 12 - 1963 
46 CM /L -613 


1 -2 -65 


31 - 12 


Sheathed 

660 volts Copper 
(Oi ) Twisted and Braided 250 volts 
(ix ) Workshop Type . 250 volts Copper 
( x ) Tough Rubber Shea - 250 volts ) 

thed . 
31- 1 -66 M /s. Parkash Pulverising Mills, BHC Dusting Powders 

IS : 561- 1962 Specifica 
Industrial Area , Alwar. 

tion for BHC Dusting 
Powders (Second Resi 

sion ). 
31- 1 -66 M /s, National Refinery Private Silver Solder 

IS : 192 - 1956 Specifica 
Ltd ., 87 , Tardeo Road , 

tion for Silver Solder 
Bombay - 34 . 

Solder (Revised ) . 
31 - 1 -66 The National Rolling and Steel Steel Wire Ropes for Haulage Purposes in Mines IS : 1856 - 1961 Specifica 
Ropes Limited , Shamnagar , 

tion for Steel Wire Ropes 
24 Parganas , West Bengal having 

for Haulage purposes in 
their Registered Office at Nicco 

Mines 
House , I and 2 Hare Street, 

Calcutta - I . 
31- 1 -66 M /s. Lloyd Bitumen Products , Preformed Fillers for Expansion Joint in Con - IS : 1838 - 1961 Specifica 

A5 , A6 , and A7, Bon -Hooghly crete Non - Extruding and Resilient Type (Bit- tion for Preformed Fill 
Industrial Estate , B . T . Road , umen - Impregnated Fibre ). 

ers for Expansion Joint 
Baranagore having their office 

in Concrete Non - Extrud 
at TA Royd Street, Calcutta - 16 . 

ing and Resilient Type 
(Bitumen - Impregnated 

Fibre , 
31 - 1 - 66 M / s. Bayer ( India ) Ltd . , Palkhi- Parathion Emulsifiable Concentrates 

IS : 2129 - 1962 Specifica 
Fadi, Off. Cadell Road , Bom 

tion for Parathion Emul 
bay - 28 having their Oifice at 

sifiable Concentrates. 
Nagin Mahal, 5th Floor, 82 , 


47 CM /L -614 

31- 12 - 1963 


I- 2 -65 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:FEBRUARY27,1965/PHALGUNA8,1886 


1 - 2 -65 


48 CM / L -615 

31- 12 -1963 


1 - 2 -65 


31- 1 -66 


49 CML -616 

7 - 1 - 1964 


Bombay- I . 
M /s. Jaipur Metals and Electri- Hard -Drawn Stranded Aluminium and Steel -Cor - IS : 398 - 1961 Specification 

cals Ltd ., Near Railway Sta ed Aluminium Conductors for Overhead Power for Hard - Drawn Stranded 
tion , Jaipur (Rajasthan ). Transmission Purposes . 

Aluminium and Steel 
Cored Aluminium Con 
ductors for Overhead 
Power Transmission 
Purposes (Revised ) . 


[No. M D /33 : 16 / A ] 


792 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965 / PHALGUNA 8, 1886 


(PART II 


New Delhi, the 17th February 1965 
S . O . 669 In pursuance of sub - regulation (3 ) of regulation 7 of the Indian Standards Insti 
tution (Certification Marks) Regulations , 1955 , as amended in 1961, 1962 and 1964, the Indian 
Standards Institution hereby notifies that the marking foc per unit for Steel Products , details 
of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed , have been determined and the fee ( s) shall 
come into force with cffect from 1 April 1965 . 


THE SCHEDULE 


Product/ Class of Products 


No. and title of relevant Indian 

Standard 


Unit 


No. 


Marking 
Fee per 

Unit 


(2) 


(3 ) 


I Structural Steel (Standard Qua - IS :226 - 1962 Specification for One Tonne 25 Paise 
lity ) 

Structural Steel (Standard 

Quality ) ( Third Revision ) 
2 Galvanized Steel Sheets (Plain IS :277 -1962 Specification for Do . 
and Corrugated ) 

Galvanized Steel Sheets (Plain 

and Corrugated (Revised ) 
3 Mild Steel and Medium Ten - IS : 432 - 1960 Specification for 

silc Steel Bars and Hard - Mild Steel and Medium 
Drawn Steel Wire for Conc Tensile Steel Bars and Hard 
rete Reinforcement. 

Drawn Steel Wire for Conc 

rete Reinforcement (Revised ) 
4 Cold Rolled Carbon Steel IS :513 - 1963 Specification for Do . 
Sheets . 

Cold Rolled Carbon Steel 

Sheets ( Revised ) 
5 High Tensile Structural Steel IS : 961- 1962 Specification for 

High Tensile Structural Steel 

(Revised ). 
6 Hot Rolled Carbon Steel Sheet IS : 1079 - 1963 Specification for Do, 
and Strip . 

Hot Rolled Carbon Steel 

Sheet and Strip (Revised ) 
7 Rivet Bars for Structural Pur- IS : 1148 -1964 Specification for 
poses . 

Rivet Bars for Structural Pur 

poses (Revised ), 
8 High Tensile Rivet Bars for IS : 1149- 1964 Specification for 
Structural Purposes . 

High Tensile Rivet Bars for 

Structural Purposes (Revised ). 
9 Structural Steel (Ordinary Qua - IS : 1977 - 1962 Specification for 
lity ). 

Structural Steel (Ordinary 

Quality ). 
10 Structural Steel ( Fusion Welding IS :2062- 1962 Specification for Do . Do. 
Quality ) 

Structural Steel (Fusion Wel 
ding Quality ). 


Do . 


NOTE : — The above rate of marking fee will be applicable only in case of primary manufac 
turers of steel and re - rollers on par with them . 

[No. MD / 18 :2 ] 
New Delhi, the 18th February 1965 
S .O . 670 . - In licence No. CM / L - 489 dated 26 December 1962 held by M / 8 
Bhanger Bros. & Co. Pvt . Ltd ., Bombay the details of which are published " under 
S . O . 809 in the Gazette of India , Part II , Sub - section 3 ( ii ) dated 22 February 
1964 , the list of articles has been revised as follows with effect from 15 Febru 
ary 1965 : 
Three -Phase Induction Motors up to 5 HP only . 

[No. MD / 12 : 913 .] 
D . V . KARMARKAR , Jt. Director (Marks) 


SEC. 3 (il)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 , 1965 / PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 


703 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

(Dopartment of Agriculturo ) 

New Delhi, the 10th February 1965 
$ . O . 671. — In pursuance of clause ( 1 ) of article 239 of the Constitution of India 
the President hereby directs that the Chief Commissioner of Delhi shall, subject to 
the control of the President and until further orders , exercise , In the Union Terri 
tory of Delhi, the powers of the State Government under section 34 of the Preven 
tion of Cruelty to Animals Act , 1960 (59 of 1960 ) . 

[No. 9 - 24 / 82-LD . ] 
K . C . SARKAR , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 16th February, 1965 . 
S . O . 672. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 14 
of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) , the Central Government, 
after congultation with the Medical Council of India , hereby directs that the 
medical qualification " M . D ." granted by the University of British Columbia , 
Canada, shall be a recognised medical qualification for the purposes of that Act. 

[No. F . 32 - 15 / 64 -MPT.] 


New Delhi, the 20th February 1965 


tian Hospital, P . O . Tezpur, District Darang ( Assam ) has been elected by the 
Assam Nurses, Midwives and Health Visitors Council to be a member of the Indian 


Nursing Council Act, 1947 (48 of 1947 ) ; 


And whereas, Miss N . Dass, Nursing Superintendent, V . J . Hospital, Amritsar 
( Punjab ) has ben elected by the Punjab Nurses Registration Council to be a 
member of the Indian Nursing Council under clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 3 of the said Act; 

And whereas Dr. T . V . Sivanandam , MBBS., MLC ., Chellam House , 122, West 
Sambandam Road , Coimbatore , has been elected by the Medical Council of India 
to be a member of the Indian Nursing Council under clause ( d ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 3 of the said Act, with effect from the 6th February , 1965 ; 

And whereas Dr . P . R . Trivedi, Dalio building, Ellis Bridge , Ahmedabad - 6 
(Gujarat ) , has been elected by the Central Council of the Indian Medical Associa 
tion to be a member of the Indian Nursing Council under clause ( e ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 3 of the said Act with effect from the 1st December, 1963; 

And whereas, Miss A . Cherian , Nursing Officer , Directorate General of Health 
Services , New Delhi, has been re - elected with effect from the 1st December , 1963 
by the Council of the Trained Nurses Association of India to be a member of 
the Indian Nursing Council under clause ( f ) of Sub - section ( 1 ) of section 3 of 
the said Art ; 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of the provisions of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 3 
of the said Act, the Central Government hereby directs that Miss A . Cherian , 
Nursing Omcer , Directorate General of Health Services , New Delhi, shall continue 
to be a member of the Indian Nursing Council constituted by the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Health No , F . 27- 57 / 57-MII ( B ) , dated 
the 1st December , 1958 , with effect from the 1st December , 1963 and makes the 
following further amendments in the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Health No. F . 27-57 / 57-MII ( B ) dated the 1st December, 1958 :- - 

(1) under the heading " Elected under clause (a ) of Sub - section (1 ) of 


( 1 ) for the cntry against serial No. 1, the following entry shall be sub 

stituted , namely : - - 
"Miss R . Ellason , Nursing Superintendent, Baptist Christian Hospital, 

P . O . Tezpur, District Darang ( Assam ) " , 


794 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965 / PHALGUNA 8, 1886 


[ PART II 


** 


a zor the patry against Serta No.a.the te 


( 2 ) for the entry against Serial No. 5 , the following entry shall be sub 

stituted , namely : 
"Miss N . Dass, Nursing Superintendent , V . J. Hospital, Amritsar 

(Punjab ) " ; 
( li) under the heading " Elected under clause (d ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of 

Section 3 " for the entry against serial No. 1, the following entry shall 

be substituted , namely : 
" Dr. T . V . Şivanandam , MBBS, MLC ., Chellam House, 122 , West Samban 

dan Road , Colmbatore," ; 
( lil ) under the heading " Elected under clause ( e ) of sub -section ( II) of 

Section 3 , for the entry against serial No . 1 , the following entry shall 

be substituted , namely : 
" Dr. P . R . Tiryedi, Dallo building, Ellis Bridge, Ahmedabad-6 (Gujarat ) " , 

[No. F . 27 -47 / 63 -MPT ( Pt. II ) ( A ). ] 


S . O . 674 . - In pursuance of the provisions of Section 3 of the Indian Nursing 
Council Act (48 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby directs that the Superin 
tendent of Nursing Services (by whatever name called ) of Gujarat State specified 
in sub - clause ( 11 ) of clause ( m ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 3 of the sald Act 
shall be ex -officio member of the Indian Nursing Council . 

Now therefore , in pursuance of the provisions of sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 3 
of the said Act the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
amendment in the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Health No. 27 -57 / 57 -MII ( B ) dated the 1st December , 1958 , namely — 

In the said notification under the heading " Ex - officio members under clause 
( m ) of sub -section ( 1) of Section 3 " after the existing entries the following entry 
shall be inserted , namely : 
" 7 . Superintendent of Nursing Services, Gujarat" . 

[ No. F . 27-47 / 63-MPT( B ).) 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 19th February 1965 
S . O . 675 . — Whereas the Government of India in the Ministry of Health has, 
by notification No . 32 - 15 /64 -MPT, dated the 18th February , 1965 , made, in excrcige 
of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 14 of the Indian Medical 
Council Act, 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) , recognised the medical qualification " M . D ." 
granted by the University of British Columbia , Canada, for the purposes of the 
said Act; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 14 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) 


the date of this order or so long as Dr. David M . Kennedy who possesses the 
said qualiAcation , continues to work in the Ratlam Mission Hospital Masihi 
Chikitsalayia , Ratlam , (Madhya Pradesh ) to which he is attached for the time 
being for the purposes of teaching, research or charitable work , whichever is 
shorter , as the period to which the medical practice of the said Dr. David M . 
Kennedy shall be limited . 

[No. F . 32 -15 /64 -MPT.) 
New Delhi, the 20th February 1965 
$ . 0 . 676 . - Whereas the Government of India in the Ministry of Health has, 
by notification No. 16 - 1 / 62-MI dated the 26th July , 1962 , made, in exercise of the 
powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 14 of the Indian Medical Council 
Act , 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) , recognised the medical qualification M . D ., C . M . awarded 
by the University of McGill Montreal, Canada , for the purposes of the said Act ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 14 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) , 
the Central Government hereby specifies a further period of two years with effect 
from the 26th July , 1964 or so long as Dr. J . A . Vandrick who possesses the said 


Sec. S ( li ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 , 1965 / PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 


795 : 


qualification , continues to work in the Star of Hope Hospital, Canadian Baptist 
Mission , Akividu , West Godavari District, to which he is attached for the time 
being for the purposes of teaching , research or charitable work , whichever is 
shorter , as the period to which the medical practice of the said Dr. J. A . Vandrick 
shall be limited , 


(No. F . 32 -64 / 64 -MPT.] 


B . B . L . BHARADWAJ, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 


( Transport Wing) 

MERCHANT SHIPPING 
New Delhi, the 20th February 1965 


S . O . 67 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of sec 
tion 114 of the Merchant Shipping Act , 1958 ( 44 of 1958 ) , the Central Government 
hereby fixes a sum of Rupees One Hundred as the amount for the bond to be 
given in respect of each seaman by a Master of a ship other than an Indian 
ship for the purposes of the said section , 


[No. 19 -MT( 1) / 65 .] 


S . O . 678 . — Whereas the Government of India has ratified the International 
Loadlinç Convention 1930 ; 


And whereas Article 18 of the said Convention permits the acceptance of any 
other equivalent arrangement in substitution of a particular itting or appliance 
adopted under the Loadline Rules; 


And whereas the Government of India is satisfied that the proposed " set in " 
superstructures will reduce concentration of stresses in sheer strakes of some 
ships, and the seaworthiness of such ships will not be adversely affected ; and that 
the Atting is at least as effective as that required by the Indian Merchant Shipping 
(Load Line ) Rules , 1934 ; 


Now theretore in exercise of the powers conferred by rule 109 of the Indian 
Merchant Shipping (Loadline ) Rules , 1934 , the Government of India hereby 
accepts the " set in " superstructures or other modified form of superstructures as 
equivalent to a superstructure under Rule 1 of the Annexure to the said Con 
vention subject to the following : 


( i) the transverse amount of " set in " on each side of any ship having a 

rounded gunwale shall be Umited to the point where the gunwale : 
begins to curve down, or as near thereto as constructional arrange 
ments allow and shall not exceed at any point a distance equal to 
B / 25 where B is the moulded breadth of the ship ; 


gunwale square to ship side shall not exceed at any point a distance 
equal to the width of the stringer bar plus 8 inches ; 


in " superstructure shall be reduced by the ratio of the breadth of 
that " set in " superstructure to the breadth of the vessel at the mid 
length of that superstructure as shown on the accompanying diagram 
marked annexure " A " . 


706 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965 / PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 


[PART II 


VH 


ANNEXYRE A " 
EQUIVALENT ARRANGEMENT SET- IN SUPERSTRUCTURE 


TH 


NORMAL ALLOWANCE 


NORMAL ALLOWANCE 


NOT MORE THAN 


NOT MORE THAN B /25 


NOTE :- be AND b 2 ARE MEASURED 
AT THE MIDPOINT OF LENGTH L 
AT : DECK LEVEL 
MEAN COVERED LENGTH = lxbxha 


[No. F , 42-MA471 / 62.] 
D . S . NIM , Dy . Secy. 


DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS 

( P . & T . Board ) 

New Delhi, the 19th February , 1965 
$ . O . 679, - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 11 , 
clause ( b ) of sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 14 and sub - rulc ( 1 ) of rule 23 of the Central 
Civil Services ( Classification , Control and Appeal ) Rules , 1957, the President 
hereby makes the following further amendments in the notification of the 
Government of India in the late Ministry of Communications ( Posts and Tele 
graphs ) No. S . R .O . 620 , dated the 28th February , 1957, namely : 

In the Schedule to the said notification in Part II, General Central Service , 
Class III, under the heading " Office of the Director General, Posts and Tele 
graphs" , in column ( 1 ) , 
( a ) the entry " Librarian " and the corresponding entries thereto in 

columns ( 2 ) to ( 5 ) shall be omitted ; 
(b ) against the entry " Mechanics ” , for the existing entries in columns ( 2 ) 

to ( 5 ) , the following entries shall be substituted . 


“ (2) 


(3 ) 


(4 ) 


(5) 


All 


Dy. Director of Tele 
communications 
Research . 


Dy, Director of Tele 
communications 
Rescarch . 


Director of Telecommu 
nications Research , 


Assistant Director of 

Telecommunications 
Research . 


(i) to 
(iii) 


Dy. Director of Tele 
communications Reacarch " 


[No. 44 /9 / 64-Disc.] 

D . K . AGARWAL , 
Assistant Director General ( SEA ). 


SEC. 9 (!!)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1963 / PHALGUNA 8, 1886 


797 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 

(ARCHAEOLOGY ) . 

New Delhi, the 17th February , 1965 , 
S . O . 680 .- - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that the ancient 
monument specified in the Schedule attached hereto is of national importance . 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
Section 4 of the Ancient Mc iments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act , 
1958 ( 24 of 1958 ) , the Central Government hereby gives notice of its intention to 
declare the said ancient monument to be of national importance . 

Any objection made within two months after the issue of this notification by 
any person interested in the said ancient monument will be considered by the 
Central Government. 


SCHEDULE 


798 


Saial 


State 


District 


Tehsil 


Locality 


Area 


Boundaries 


Name of 
monument 


Ownership 


Remarks 


No. 


Revenix 

plot 
Oumber 

to be 
included 

under 
protection 


123 


I 


TO 


IO 


II 


I 


Jammu & Kashmir Baramulla 


Survey plot 8 Kanals 
Nos . 275 , and 8 
260 and Marlas. 
262 . 


Road 
Plot 


( Survey 
No. 43 ) 


Ancient temple 

together with 
adjacent land 
comprised in 
survey plot 
Nos. 275 , 260 
and 262. 


1S 


North : Survey Temple 

plot No . 261. property . 
East : Survey 
plot Nos. 261 
and 274 . 
South : Survey 
plot Nos . 276 
and 277 . 
West : Survey 
plot Nos . 259 , 
294 and 279 . 


through survey 
plot No. 275 i 
and survey plot 
Nos . 260 and 
262 . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:FEBRUARY271965/PHALGUNA8,1886 


[No. F . 4 - 2 , 65 - C1.) 

S . J. NARSLAN , 
Assistant Educational Adviser . 


[PARTII 


SFC. $ ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1963 / PHALGUNA 8, 1886 


799 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 

(RUBBER CONTROL ) 

New Delhi, the 19th February , 1965 . 
S . O , 681, — The Central Government hereby notifles that: 

( a ) the persons specified in items ( 1 ) to (4 ) below have been elected as mem 
bers of the Rubber Board for a period of threc years with effect from the 31st De 
cember, 1964 under clauses ( b ) and ( c ) of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 4 of the 


Rubber Rules, 1955, and 

( b ) the persons specified in items (5 ) to ( 7 ) have been nominated by the Cen 
tral Government as members of the Rubber Board for a period of three ycars with 
effect from the 19th February , 1965 under clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 
4 of the Rubber Act , 1947 ( 24 of 1947) , to represent the interests shown against 
their names, namely : 
( 1 ) Shri Mathew Abraham , Ma 
hendragiri Estate, Nagerocoil 

Elected by the large growers in the 
(Madras State ) . 

State of Madras . 
(2 ) Shri P . K . Ali, Managing Direc 

tor, Ummaya Greens ( Private ) ! 
Ltd ., Palaparamba P . O ., Tellicher 

ry (Kerala State ). 
( 3 ) Shri Gcorge John , Ancheril , Elected by the large growers in the 
Kottayam (Kerala State ) 

State of Kerala , 
( 4 ) Shri Michael A . Kallivayalil, 
Maruthi Estate , Peruvanthanam , 
Mundakayam (Kerala State ) . 
(6 ) Shri B . K Nair , I. N . T . U .C ., 1 
Omce Vandiperiyar (Kerala 
State ) . 

Nominated by the Central Govern 
( 6 ) Shri K . Karunakaran , I. N . T . U . C . 

ment to represent labour . 
Office , Trichur (Kerala State ) . 
( 7 ) Shri P . C . Baby . Neelamma) ! 
Putheneedu . Karavaloor , P . O . ! 
Punalur (Kerala State ) . 


[No. F . 15 ( 3) Plant ( B ) /64.) 
B . KRISHNAMURTHY, Under Secy . 


(Office of the Textile Commissioner ) 

Bombay , the 14th January, 1965 
S . O . 682 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred on me by clauses 4 , 14A and 
17 of the Cotton Control Order , 1955, and of all other powers enabling me in 
this behalf, I hereby make the following Order. 

1, Every A and B class cotton licence holder not being a manufacturer or 
a bank shall furnish to the Office of the Textile Commissioner , Bombay, in the 
form given in Annexure A hereto , a fortnightly statement showing the position 
therein as on the 15th and the last date of each month , so as to reach this Office 
within the dates specified below : 
(i ) The first statement showing the cotton position as on 31st December, 

1964, should reach not later than 22nd January, 1965 . 
( ii ) The second statement for the fortnight ending 15th January , 1965, 

should reach not later than 31st January , 1965 . 


should reach not later than 7th February , 1965. 


800 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1985 / PHALGUNA 8, 1886 [PART II . 


1 


( iv ) For each fortnight thereafter , the statements should reach within 7 

days from the last date of the fortnight to which the statement 

relates. 
2 . ( a ) No person shall hereafter enter into a contract to sell any Indian 
cotton to a manufacturer unless the manufacturer certifies in a form which 


is within the limits indicated by the Indian Cotton Mills Federation , 

( b ) No person shall hereafter deliver to a manufacturer any Indian cotton 
against the contracts already entered into prior to this Order unless the manu 
facturer certifies in a form which may be prescribed by the Indian Cotton 


Cotton Mills Federation , 

( c ) Every manufacturer shall issue on or before 22nd January , 1965 , a 
certificate in a Form which may be prescribed by the Indian Cotton Mills 
Federation , to the seller in respect of each contract entered into prior to this 
Order that the quantity purchased under the said Contract is within the limits 
indicated by the Indian Cotton Mills Federation . 


ANNEXURE A 
Full name and address of the licence holder . . 
Licence No. A / B . . . 
Instructions - 

1 . The quantity of cotton to be shown below shall includeboth the loose ginncd cotton and 

pressed cotton and indicated in metric bales of 180 kgs . 
2 . The return should reach the Rescarch Officer , Economics Branch (Cotton Cell ) , Office 

of the Textile Commissioner , Bombay No. 1 , not later than the dates specified in the 
Notification . 


PART - I 
mnin respect of total stocks of Indian Cotton as 01 ,. . . . . . 


Full description 
of cotton 


Quantity 


of Indian cotton lying 


Unsold 


Sold to a manu - 


Location 


delivered 


Delivered to a 
manufacturer but 
stored on his 

behalf 


SEC. 3 ( ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965 / PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 


801 


PART II 
Details in respect of stocks of cotton sold to a manufacturer butnot delivered as on . . . . . . . . , 


Full description Quantity Lot No. Press Press Running Name of Sale Location * Remarks 
of cotton 

Marks Numbers the manu - Price of stock 

facturer 


PART III 
Return in respect of forward sales as on 


. . . . . . 


Full description of 

cotton 


Quantity 


* Remarks 


Name of the 
manufacturer 


Sale 
price 


Delivery 
month 


I do hereby declare that I have compared the above particulars with the Iccords and books 
ofmy office and that they are in so far as I can ascertain accurate, 


Signature of the licence holder, 


State whether the certificate in respect of I, C . M . F s permitted limit is obtained from the 
mills. 


New Delhi, the 18th February , 1965. 


Sd ./ - R . DORAISWAMY, 

Textile Commissioner . 


[No. 1 (10 ) / 65 Cotton /1.] 
B . K , VARMA, Under Secy . 


802 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : I EBRUARY 27 1965 / PHALCUNA 8 , 1886 


[ PART II 


(Office of the Jt. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports ) 

( Central Licensing Area ) 

ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 1st January , 1985 
S . O . 689, - - Whereas M / s . Guru Nanak Metal Engg. Works, 82- B , Industrial 
Estate , Ludhiana or any bank or any other person have not come forward 
furnishing sufficient cause , against Notice No . JCC . I / I ( CLA ) /627 /63 / 308, dated 
18th June 1964 proposing to cancel licences Nos. ( 1 ) P / SS / 1523687 / C /XX / 
18 / C - D / 17 - 18 , dated 31st March 1964 for Graphite Crucibles for Rs. 375 ( 2 ) 
A 571340 /62, dated 21st February 1963 for Asbestos Insulation Board for Rs. 1407 
( 3 ) A 569996 /62, dated 18th March 1963 for German Silver Scrap for Rs. 1, 650 
( 4 ) P / SS / 1532047 / C / XX / 18 / C - D / 17 - 18 , dated 15th April 1964 for German Silver 
Scrap for Rs. 2 , 570 (5 ) P / SS / 1532337 / C /XX / 18 / C - D / 17 - 18 , dated 18th April, 1964 
for Acrylic Plastic sheets for Rs. 1, 700 (6 ) A 570967 / 62, dated 26th February 1963 
for Acrylic Plastic Sheets for Rs. 2 , 188 ( 7 ) A 570963 /62, dated 26th February 1963 , 
for Polyethelene Moulding Powder of High Density for Rs. 875 . ( 8 ) A 573493 /62 , 
dated 29th January 1963 for Tapper Roller Bearings for Rs. 700 ( 9 ) A 573498 /62, 
dated 29th January 1963, for Ball Bearings for Rs. 1 ,406 ( 10 ) P / SS / 1532841 / C / 
XX / C - D / 18 , dated 5th May 1964 for Tapper Roller Bearings for Rs. 125 ( 11) 
P / SS / 1532€11 / C /XX / 18 / C - D / 18 , dated 19th April 1964, for Raw material for 
Gang Condencors for Rs. 2 ,500 ( 12 ) D 2464905 , dated 13th February 1983, for 
Rotary Switches with Porcelain Base for Hot plates for Rs. 1 ,875 ( 13 ) A 574761 / 62, 
dated 3rd December 1962 for Thermostat Electric control for Rs. 2, 255 ( 14 ) 
A 569884 /62, dated 3rd April 1963, for Jewel Lights for Rs. 702 ( 15 ) A 574760 / 62 , 
dated 31st December 1962 for Heating Elements for Rs. 2 , 250 ( 16 ) A 574787 /62 . 
dated 21st April 1963 , for Radio Parts for Rs. 3 , 562 ( 17 ) A 574735 / 62 , dated 2nd 
January 1983, for Nicrome Wire for Rs. 585 ( 18 ) P /SS / 1532514 / C / XX / 18 / C - D / 18 , 
dated 19th April 1964 for Insulation Tester etc . for Rs. 1 , 100 ( 19 ) P / SS / 1532290 / 
C / XX / 18 / C - D / 18 , dated 18th April, 1964 for Nicrome Wire for Rs. 1, 053 (20 ) 
P / SS / 1523974 / C / XX / 18 / C - D / 17 - 18 , dated 31st March 1964 for Thermostat 
Electric Control for Rs. 4 , 250 (21) P / SS / 1532153 / C /XX / 18 / C - D / 18 , dated 10th 
April 1964, for Jewel Lights for Rs. 702 ( 22 ) P / SS / 1532510 / C /XX / 18 / C - D / 17 - 18 , 
dated 19th April 1984 for raw material for band Switches for Rs. 3 ,000 ( 23 ) 
P / SS / 1532293 / C /XX / 18 / C - D / 18 for Radio Parts for Rs. 6 ,750 , dated 18th April 
1964 ( 24 ) A 571212 / 62 / D / AU5 Annual, dated 25th February 1963 for Rs. 587 for 
the Import of Adjustable Hand Reamers granted to sajd M / s. Guru Nanak Metal 
Engg. Works, 82 , Industrial Estate , Ludhiana by the Dy / Joint Chief Controller 
of Imports and Exports (Central Licensing Area ) Janpath Barracks B New 
Delhi Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce in exercise of the powers 
confcrred by the Clause 9 of the Import ( Control) Order 1955 , hereby cancel the 
said licences as mentioned above issued to M / s . Guru Nanak Metal Engg . Works , 
82 - B , Industrial Estate , Ludhiana . 

[No. JCC.I / I (CLA ) /627 / 63 / 3664. ) 


New Delhi, the 7th January , 1965 
S . O . 684 .- Whereas M / s. Gold Stone Industries , 78 - F and 79 - F , Kamla Nagar , 
Subzi Mandi, Delhi or any Bank or any other person have not come forward 
furnishing sufficient cause , against Notice No. JCC . I / I ( CLA ) / 46 / 64 / 3200 dated 
1st December 1964 proposing to cancel licence No. A 570814 /62 / D / AU VI/ annual 
dated 16th March 1963 for import of Polyethlene Moulding Powder for Rs. 1026 / 
granted to said M / s . Gold Stone Industries, 78 - F and 79 - F , Kamla Nagar , Subzi 
mandi, Delhi by the Dy . / Joint Chief Controller of Imports & Exports , (Central 
Licensing Area ) Janpath Barracks B New Delhi, Govt . of India in the Ministry 


( Control) Order 1955 , hereby cancel the said licence No. A 570814 /62 / D / AU - VI/ 
Annual dated 16th March 1963, issued to M / s . Gold Stone Industries, 78 - F and 
79.- F , Kamla Nagar, Subzimandi, Delhi. 

[No. JCC .I / I ( CLA ) / 46 /64 / 3821 ( A ). ] 


New Delhi, the 18th January , 1965 
8 . 0 . 685 . — Whereas M / s . Guru Nanak Metal Engg . Works, 82 , Industrial 
Estate , Ludhiana or any bank or any other person have not come forward 
furnishing sufficient cause, against Notice No . JCC . I / I ( CLA ) /627 / 63 / 2959. dated 
16th November 1964 , proposing to cancel licence No. A 571212 / 62 / D / AU5 / Annual, 
dated 25th February 1963 for import of Adjustable Hand Reamers for Rs. 567 


Sec . 3 (4 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965 / PHALGUNA 8, 1886 


803 


granted to said M / S . Guru Nanak Metal Engg . Works, 82 , Industrial Estate, 
Ludhiana by the Dy. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports ( Central Licensing 
Area ) Janpath Barracks B New Delhi Government of India in the Ministry of 
Commerce in exercise of the powers conferred by the clause 9 of the Import 
( Control) Order 1955 , hereby cancel the said licence No. A 571212 /62 / D / AU5 / 
Annual, dated 25th February 1963 Rs. 567 for import of Adjustable Hand Reamers 
issued to M / s. Guru Nanak Metal Engg. Works, 82 , Industrial Estate , Ludhiana. 


S . K . SEN , 
Jt. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 


(Office of the Deputy Chief Controller of Imports & Exports ) 

ORDER 

Ernakulam , the 20th January 1965 
$ .O . 686. --Whereas M /s. M . Paul Varghese & Co . ( P ) Ltd ., Banerji Road , 
Ernakulam - 1 . or any Bank or any other person have not come forward furnishing 
suficient cause against Notice No . 157- IV / 1 / 2 -63 / EPS dated the 23rd October 
1964 proposing to cancel licence No. P / EP / 2245647 / C / XX / 18 / C / E / 18 dated 28th 
March 1964 for Rs. 2 , 50, 000 / - only for import of High Quality Art Paper from 
General Area , granted by the Deputy Chief Controller of Imports & Exports , 
Ernakulam , to the said M / s . M , Paul Varghese & Co . ( P ) Ltd ., Banerji Road 
Ernakulam . 

The Government of India . in the Ministry of Commerce , in exercise of the 
powers conferred by Clause 9 of the Imports ( Control) Order 1955 , hereby cancel 
the said licence No. P / EP / 2245647 / C / XX / 18 / C / E / 18 dated 28th March 1964 
Issued to M / s. M . Paul Varghese & Co. ( P ) Ltd ., Banerji Road , Ernakulam . 


[No. 157 -IV / 1 / 2 -63 / EPS.] 

P . MADHAVAN NAIR , 
Dy. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 


MINISTRY OF WORKS & HOUSING 

New Delhi, the 18th February 1965 


S . O . 687 . - It is hereby notified that, in pursuance of clause ( d ) of sub - section 


of 1951) , Shri Mohammad Yusuf, a member of the Lok Sabha , has been elected 
as a member of the Rajghat Samadhi Committee in place of Her Highness 
Maharani Vijaya Raje Scindia of Gwalior , 

[No. 19 / 2 / 64 -WI. ] 


S . O . 188. - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - sections ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) 
oſ section 4 of the Rajghat Samadhi Act , 1951 (41 of 1951 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby nominates Shri V . Vishwanathan , Chiet Commissioner , Delhi and 
Shel R . F . Isar, Joint Secretary , Ministry of Works and Housing, as ofcial mem 
bers of the Rajghat Samadhi Committee , in place of Sarvashri Dharma Vira and 
l rem Krishen respectively and also Appoints Shri V . Vishwanathan , Chief Com 
Inissioner, Delhi, as the Chairman of the said Committee , 

The Central Government hereby makes the following further amendments in 
the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Works, Housing 
and Supply No. 19 / 2 / 62 -WI dated the 22nd August, 1962, namely : 
In the said notification , 
(i ) for the name of " Shri Dharma Vira " in the two places where it occurs , 

the following shall be substituted , namely : 
" Shri V . Vishwanathan " : 


804 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965 /PHALCUNA 8, 1886 (PART II – 


(11) for item 2, the following item shall be substituted , namely : 

" 2 . Shri R . F Isar, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Works and Housing" ; 
(111 ) for the entry " Her Highness Maharani Vijaya Raje Scindia of Gwallor " , 

the following shall be substituted , namely : 
" Shri Mohammad Yusuf" . 

[No . 19 / 2 / 64 -WI.) 
S . CHAUDHURI, Dy . Secy. 


New Delhi, the 20th February 1965 
S . O . 689, -- Il exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 1 
of the Slum Areas ( Improvement and Clearance ) Amendment Act, 1984 (43 of 
1984 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints the 27th day of February, 1965 as 
the date on which the said Act shall come into force , 

[No. 11 / 2 / 65 -HI. ] 
V . K . HARURAY, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 
(Оfice of the Chief Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 17th February 1965 
8 . 0 , 690 . - In exercise of the powers conferred on the Chlef Settlement Com 
missioner by Sub - Section ( 2 ) of Section 10 of the Displaced Persons ( Claims) 
Supplementary Act, 1954 (XII of 1954 ) , he hereby delegates to S / Shri N . P . 
Jaisinghani, Assistant Settlement Commissioner, Indore & Patna region and 
J . D . Jain , Competent Officer , Delhi with immediate effect the following powers 
of the Chief Settlement Commissioner : 
1. Powers to call for the record of any case decided by the Settlement 

Oncer and pass order in the case under proviso to Sub - Section ( 3 ) 

of Section 4 of the said Act . 
2 . Special powers of revision under Section 5 of the said Act in respect of 

cases decided under the Displaced Persons ( Claims) Act, 1950 ( 44 of 
1950 ) . 

[No. 11 - A ( 3 ) A1-60 / ARG . ] 
G . D . KSHETRAPAL , 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 12th February 1965 
S . O . 691 , - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 ( 1 ) of the Cinema 
tograph Act, 1952 and sub - rule ( 9 ) of rule 8 read with sub - rule 2 of rule 9 of the 
Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules , 1958, the Central Government after consulta 
tion with the Central Board of Film Censors , hereby appoints Shri Ashis Barman 
as a member of the Advisory Panel of the said Board at Calcutta with immediate 
effect. 

[No, 11 / 3 /62-FC . ] 


CORRIGENDUM 
New Delhi, the 12th February 1985 


S . O . 692 . - In the Notification of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting 
No. S . O . 126 , dated the 26th December , 1964, published at page 143 in Part II 
Section 3 – Sub - Section ( 1 ) of the Gazette of India Extraordinary dated the 9th 
January 1985 , in the last line of Notifcation for " 10th September, 1964" please 
read " 26th December, 1964" . 

[NO. 11 (4 ) / 63-FC . ) 
R . B . SINHA , Under Secy. 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965 / PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 


80 $ 


DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SECURITY 

New Delhi, the 18th February 1965 


S . O . 693. — In pursuance of the provisions contained in sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
17A of the Employees Provident Funds Act , 1952, the Central Government hereby 
specifies a period of three months as the period within which the amount of 
accumulations to the credit in the Fund under the said Act of an employee em 
ployed in an establishment to which the aforesaid Act applies, leaves his employ 
ment and obtains re - employment in another establishment to which the same does 
not apply shall, if the employee so desires and the rules in relation to that provi 
dent fund permit such transfer , be transferred to the credit of his account in the 
provident fund of the establishment in which he is re -employed , 

[No. 13 / 17 / 64 / PF -II . ] 
S . A . AHMAD , Dy. Sęcy . 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR & EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 17th February 1965 
S . O . 694 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Babisole Colliery Post Office Ondal, District Burdwan , and 
their workmen which was received by the Central Government on the 12th 
February, 1965 . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA 

REFERENCC No. 45 or 1964 
PARTIES : 

Employers in relation to the Babisole Colliery, and 

Their workmen . 
PRESENT: 

Shri L . P . Dave - Presiding Officer. 
APPEARANCES : 

On behalf of employers. Shri K . N . Choudhury, Manager, Babisole Colllery . 
On behalf of workmen . - Shri K . Roy, Vice -President, Colliery Mazdoor Sabha, 

Asansol. 
STATE : West Bengal. 

INDUSTRY : Coal Mines . 

AWARD 
The Government of India , Ministry of Labour & Employment, by their order 
No. 6 / 58 / 64 - LRII, dated 25th July , 1964, have referred the industrial dispute 
existing between the employers in relation to the Babisole Colliery and their 
workmen in respect of the question whether the action of the management in 
stopping Sarvashri Garib Paswan and Bandhu Louri, Quarry trammers , from 
work with effect from the 3rd June, 1964 and Shr : Akkal Mondal, quarry tram 
mer, with effect from the 31st May, 1964 is justified and if not , to what relief 
they are entitled for adjudication to this Tribunal. 

2 . After the parties had Aled their written statements , the matter was fixed 
for hearing and was adjourned more than once for different reasons. Ultimately 
when the matter came up for hearing before me today , the parties, after some 
discussions, settled the matter amicably and Aled a memorandum of settlement, 
copy appended herewith . 

3 . The dispute relates to three quarry trammers who are said to have been 
stopped from work by the management. Under the terms of compromise , all 
the three workmen are to be reinstated ; they are to be given jobs first either 
as quarry loaders or miners, but they would be taken as trammers whenever 
there are vacancies. The management have also agreed to pay them three 
months salary as ex - gratia payment. In my opinion , the compromise is fair 
and reasonable . I accept it. 
I therefore pass an Award in terms of the compromise . 

L . P . DAVE , 
8th February , 1965 . 

Presiding Officer . 


806 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JEBRUARY 27 1965 / PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 


PART II -- 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA 

REFERENCE No. 45 OF 1964 
Employers in relation to Babisole Colliery . 


AND 


Their workmen . 
The parties discussed the matters and came to the following agreement: 
1. That the three workmen namely Shri Akkal Mondal, Shri Garil Paswan , 

and Shri Bandhu Bauri who were working as trammers will be 
reinstated and the management will take them back within 23rd 

February . They will be taken back as soon as they report for duty . 
2 . They will be given jobs of either quarry loaders or miners at first but 

whenever there is vacancy for trammers , they will be taken . The 

senlority of service of other trammers will be taken into consideration , 
3 . The period of unemployment will be treated as period of leave without 

pay and they will be paid salary of three months each as ex -gratia . 
There will be no orders as to costs. The parties pray that an award may 
kindly be given to this effect. 
K . Roy , 
Vice President, 

Manager , 
Colliery Mazdoor Sabha, Asansol, 

Babisole Colliery . 
Dated 8th February , 1965 . 

8 - 2 - 1965. 
(No. 6 / 58 /64 -LR .II.) 


New Delhi, the 18th February 1965 


s . O , 695 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the matter of an application under section 33A 
of the said Act, from Saryashri Scomari, M . C . Loader and others Jealgora Colliery 
Post Office Jealgora , which was received by the Central Government on the 11th 
February 1965 . 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INŲDSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DHANBAD 

In the matter of a Complaint under Sec. 33 % of the Industrial Disputes, Acte 
1947 (XIV of 1947). 


COMPLAINT No . 3 OF 1964 

(Arising out of Reference No. 1 of 1964 ) 
PARTIES : 

1 . Sri Seomari (E .B . No. 7528 ) M . C . Loader. 
2 . Sri Chhota Ramdeo ( E . B . No . 12073 ) M . C . Loader , 
3 . Srl Mewa Lal ( E . B , 12424 ) M . C . Loader . 
4 . Sri Jadunandar Rajbhar E . B . 12101 M . C . Loader . 
5 . Sri Ganesh E . B , 612175 M . C . Loader , 
6 . Sri Kuleshwar E , B , 15065 M . C . Loader . 
7 . Sri Deoraj E . B . 90324 M . C . Loader . 
8 . Sri Kallash E .B , 15070 M . C . Loader . 
9 . Sri Sagina E . B , 92342 M . C . Loader . 
10 . Sri Nlbhul E . B . 7635 M . C . Loader . 
ll , Sri Ramchandra E . B . NO . 7737 M , C . Loader . 
12 . Srl Jagardeo E . B . 12380 M . C . Loader , 
13. Sri Surat E .B . 91600 M . C . Loader . 
14 . Sri Sempujan E .B . 7362 M . C . Loader. 
15 . Sri Manhoo E . B . 5893 M , C . Loader. 
16. Sri Kishore E .B . 1398 M . C . Loader . 


pujan E.B. 5893 M . C. Loader 


SEC . 9 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965 / PHALGUNA 8, 1886 


807 


17. Sri Gobordhan E . B . 15607 Prop Mazdoor , 
18. Sri Chanderdeo E . B . 5168 M . C . Loader , 
19 . Sri Bisnath E . B . 5825 M . C . Loader , 
20. Sri Bhiku E .B . 90013 M . C . Loader, 
21. Sri Bipat E . B , 12411 M . C . Loader, 
22. Sri Hetoo E . B . 12068 M . C . Loader , 
23. Sri Rameshwar E . B . 15743 Loco Helper . 

C / o . 
Secretary , Khan Mazdoor Congress, P .O , Jharia , Dt. Dhanbad - Complainants.. 

Vs. 
Employers in relation to Jealgora Colliery, M / s. East Indian Coal Co. Ltd .. 

P . O . Jealgora - Opposite Party . 
PRESENT : 

Shri Raj Kishore Prasad , M . A ., B .L ., Presiding Oficer. 
APPEARANCES ; 
For the Complainants - Sri B . Lal, Advocate , for complainants as Secretary , 

Khan Mazdoor Congress . 
For the Company Opposite Party -- Sri J. N . P . Sahi, Assistant C .L . O . 
STATE : Bihar . 

INDUSTRY ; Coal. 
Dhanbad , dated the 8th February , 1965 

AWARD 
Shri B . Lal, Advocate, for complainants as Secretary of the Union appears for 
complainants . Srl J . N , P , Sahi, Assistant Chief Labour Officer of the company 
appears for the opposite party . Copy of written statement made over by Shri 
Sahi to Sri Lal today in court. Shri Saht applies for time. Sri Lal objects and 
presses for cost. Twenty complainants out of 23 are present, Subsequently , Shri 
Sahi raised preliminary objection to the maintainability of the complaint on the 
ground that these complainants were not workmen concerned within Section 
33 ( 2 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, in Reference No. 1 of 1964 in which 
this complaint had been Aled and therefore on this preliminary ground the com 
plaint should be dismissed . Realísing this dimculty , Shri B . Lal, on hehalf of the 
Union representing the workmen concerned Aled a petition for permission to 
withdraw the complaint with liberty to move the Central Government for reference 
of the dispute under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act . In these 
circumstances, the complainants are permitted to withdraw the complaint. 

The complaint is accordingly withdrawn . This is the award made in this 
case , 


Prola . 


Sd. / - RAJ KISHORE PRASAD , 
Dhanbad , dated the 8th February , 1965 . 

Presiding Officer, 
Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad . 

[No. 2 / 68 / 63-LR .II. 1 


New Delhi, the 19th February 1965 


S . O . 696 . - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an Industrial 
Dispute exists hetween the employers in relation to the Pakher Bauxite Mine of 
Messrs Aluminium Corporation of India Limited , Post Once Lohardaga , District 
Ranchi and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub -section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Trl 
bunal, Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of the said Act, 


.808 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965 / PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 


(PART II 


- 


SCHEDULE 
Whether the action of the management of the Pakher Bauxite Mine of Messrs . 
Aluminlum Corporation of India Limited , Post Office Lohardaga in dismissing 
Shri S . K . Zabooruddin a piece rated workman is justified ? If not, to what relief 
is the workman entitled ? 

[No, 24 / 6 / 65 -LR -I.] 
New Delhi, the 20th February 1965 
S . O . 697. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between the employers in relation 
to the Rajanka Limestone Quarcies of Messrs . Associated Cement Companies 
Limited , Jhinkpani and their workmen which was received by the Central Govern 
ment on the 8th February , 1965 . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DHANBAD 
In the matter of a Reference under Section 10 ( 1)( d ) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 (XIV of 47 ) . 

REFERENCE No. 69 OF 1964 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Rajanka Limestone Quarries of Messrs . Associated 

Cement Companies Limited , Jhinkpani 


AND 
Their workmen , 
PRESENT : 

Shri Raj Kishore Prasad , M . A ., B .L ., — Presiding Officer, 
APPEARANCES : 
For the Employers : - Shri Ranen Roy, Advocate , Patna High Court, Shri B . N . 

Jha , Personnel & Welfare Officer , 
For the Workmen : — Sarvashree U . P . Sinha, Vice President, J . N . Thakur, Vice 

President and A . K . Roy, General Secretary ; Chaibasa 

Cement Workers Union , 
STATE : Bihar 

INDUSTRY ; Limestone Quarry . 
Dhanbad , dated the 2nd January , 1965 

AWARD 
Ministry of Labour and Employment, Government of India , by Its Order 
No. 22 / 22 / 64 -LR . II dated the 22nd June, 1984 referred under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, (hereinafter referred to as the Act ) to this Tri 
bunal for adjudication , an industrial dispute existing between the employers in 
relation to the Rajanka Limestone Quarries of Messrs . Associated Cement Com 
panies Limited , Jhinkpani, and their workmen , in respect of the matters specified 
below : 

SCHEDULE 
“ ( a ) Whether the management of Associated Cement Companies Limited , 

Jhinkpani, was justified in terminating the services of the following 
26 workmen of Rajanka Limestone Quarry from the 24th February 
1964 ? If not, to what relief are they entitled ? 


6 . No. 


Name 


Ticket No. 


Shri Kandey Hansda 
Shri Dasru Naik 
Shri Abhiram Purty 
Shri Jagram 
Shri Turam Munda 
Shri Mangal Singh 


FREEEE 


149 
150 
151 


Sec. 3 (11) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; FEBRUARY 27 , 1963 / PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 


800 


S. No. 


Name 


Ticket No. 


Shri Singrai Hessa 
Shri Nitu Hessa 
Shri Bhaskoro Gowala 
Shri Jagarnath 
Shri Parkrai Deogam 
Shri Mangru Khandait 
Shri Nawru Balmuchu 
Shri Udai Balmuchu 
Shri Selat Balmuchu 
Shri Pachai 
Shri Suraj Khandait 
Shri Pandu Khandait 
Shri Dimbi Hessa 
Shri Radha Krishna Hesda 
Shri Nazir Nagi 
Shri Kurpa Hesda 
Shri Gulla Hesda 
Shri Arjoon Das 


T , 155 
T . 156 
T , 157 
T , 158 
T . 166 
T , 166 

167 
T . 168 
T . 169 
T. 170 
T . 171 
T . 172 
T . 173 
T . 174 
T , 175 
T . 176 
T . 178 
T . 179 
T . 180 
T , 181 


Shri Sanatan Das 


( b ) Whether these twentysix workmen were rightly designated as temporary 

by the management in accordance with the condition laid down in 
Item 3 ( III ) of the Standing Orders of Fajanka Limestone Quarry ? If 

not , to what relief were they entitled ? ” 
2 . The company fled its written statement, which it called counter- statement, 
on 30th September 1964. The Chaibasa Cement Workers Union , Jhinkpani, through 
its General Secretary , Sri A . K . Roy , submitted a statement of claim , on behalf of 
the concerned workmen , on 5th October 1964 . The company, thereafter, on 18th 
November 1964 Aled a rejoinder to the statement of claim of the Union , 


3 . The main case of the Union was that the 26 Quarry workers , whose services , 
were terminated with effect from 24th February 1964 by the management, were 
employed by the management for raising limestone and for removal of overburden 
which is a continuous and permanent operation in the quarries and they were 
employed by the company on 25th May 1963 but their services were extended from 
time to time till they were finally terminated on 24th February 1964; that these 


about 35 per cent of the total dally raising of limestone, which is bound to continue 
so long as the whole raising operation of the company is not mechanised , and , in 
these circumstances , the company could have easily absorbed these 26 workers also 
after 24th February 1964 in view of the capacity of its Factory but the same was 
not done and the company dispensed with the services of these workers in order to 
debar them from becoming permanent labourers as otherwise they would have been 
benefited by annual provident fund , etc ., as permanent employees ; that the raising 
of limestone and the removal of overburden , for which these concerned workmen 
were engaged , being a continuous feature connected with the manufacturing pro 
cess of the company there was no likelihood of the closure of the mineral operation 
of the raising of limestone on 24th February 1964, but the management deliberately 
terminated the services of these workers malafide, 

4 . The defence of the company was that it no doubt discharged these 26 workers 
and that they were engaged in the removal of overburden and other works con 
nected with this and at times also engaged in raising of limestone but this did not 
mean that they were required after 24th February 1962 and as these workers had 
berome surplus , with the completion of the work of the overburden and removal of 
overburden , the permanent workers of D Block had to be provided and so these 
temporary workers were dispensed with , and as such they were not entitled to any 


810 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965 / PIIALGUNA 8, 1886 


[ PART II 


1 


5 . No witness was examined by any of the two parties , but both the parties Aled 
documents in support of their respective cases , Documents of both parties were 
marked , with mutual consent, as exhibits and , accordingly , documents flled by the 
company were marked Exhibits M to M . 11 and documents Alcd by the workmen 
were marked Exhibits W to W . 75 . 

6 . On 25th November 1964 when the case was taken up at the request of the 
parties at Patna, Sri Kanen Roy , Advocate of the Patna High Court, and Sri B . Jha, 
Personnel Officer and Welfare Officer of the Company, appeared for the company. 
Sarvashri A , K . Roy , General Secretary of the Union and Satish Roy , Member of 
the Union , appeared for the workmen concerned . Sri Ranen Roy finished his argu 
ments on 25th November 1964 and at the request of the workmen s representatives 
their argument was fixed for next date , that is , on 26th November 1964 , but, un 
fortunately , the General Secretary of the Union , Sri A , K . Roy , was taken 111, and , 
therefore, on his petition for time the case was adjourned on 26th November 1964 
and , ultimately , it was Axed for hearing on 30th December 1964 at Dhanbad with 
the consent of both parties , 

Preliminary Objections 
7. Sri Ranen Roy took a preliminary objection to the maintainability of the 
Reference itself on the ground that the Reference under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Act 
by the Central Government was invalid in as much as the State Government was 
the appropriate Government under Section 2 ( a ) ( i) of the Act as admittedly the 
" Company s Factory is situated at Chalbasa in the State of Bihar, and , therefore , the 
quarry also , even if it is a mine. should be deemed to be under the State Gover 
ment, and , as such the State Government was the appropriate Government to 
make the reference , 

Sri Ranen Roy developed his argument by contending that the State Govern 
ment was the " Appropriate Government under Section 2 ( a ) ( 1) of the Act for two 
reasons : First, that a limestone quarry is not a mine within the meaning of Sec 
- tion 2 ( a ) (1 ) of the Act, and , Second , that a quarry is not an independent concern 
but a department of the Factory . 

Section 2 ( a ) of the Act defines the expression appropriate Government in these 
- terms: 
“ 2 . ( a ) appropriate Government means 
( l ) in relation to any industrial dispute concerning any industry carried on 

by or under the authority of the Central Government or by a railway 
company ( or concerning any such controlled industry as may be speci 
fied in this behalf by the Central Government) or in relation to an 
industrial dispute concerning ( a banking or an insurance company , a 

mine, an oil -field ) or a major port, the Central Government, and 
( ii) in relation to any other industrial dispute , the ( State ) Government;" 


The question , therefore, is whether a limestone quarry is a mine within the 
meaning of Section 2 ( a ) (1 ) of the Act reproduced above. It was conceded by 
Sri Ranen Roy that a limestone quarry is a mine under The Mines Act, 1952 , 
( Act 35 of 1952 ) . The word mine has been defined in Section 2 ( 1 ) of the Mines 
Act, 1952 , and its material portion is as follows: 
“ 2 ( 1 ) . mine means any excavation where any operation for the purpose of 

searching for or obtaining minerals has been or is being carried on , 
and includes. . . . " . 


From the above definition of mine as given in Section 2 ( 1 ) , mine means any 
excavation where any operation for the purpose of searching for or obtaining 
minerals has been or is being carried on and includes what is specifed in sub - sec 
tions (1 ) to ( vi ). The word Minerals has been defined in Section 2 (1j) in The 
Mines ( Amendment) Act, 1959 wherein it has been added subsequently to the Mines 
Act, 1952 by the Mines (Amendment) Act 1959 (Act 62 of 1959 ). Section 2 ( jj) reads 


thus : 


" 2 (jj), minerals means all substances which can be obtained from the earth 

by mining , digging, drilling, dredging , hydraulicing , quarrying or by 
any other operation and includes mineral oils (which in turn include 

natural gas and petroleum ); " 
Section 2 ( 1) of the Act of 1952 was also amended by the Mines (Amendment) Act . 
1959 which came into force on 16th January 1960 by which a new Section 2 ( j ) was 


SEC 3 ( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; FEBRUARY 27 , 1 % 5 / PIIALGUNA 8, 1886 


811 


substituted for the old Section 2 (j ). The material portion of the newly substituted 
Section 2 (j ) of the Mines ( Amendment) Act, 1959 is in these terms: 
“ 2 ( j). mine means any excavation where any operation for the purpose of 

searching for or obtaining minerals has been or is being carried on , 
and includes . . . . 


( iv ) all open cast workings;" 
The expression " open cast working " has also been defined in Section 2 (kk ) by 
the Mines (Amendment) Act, 1959. It reads thus : 


where any operation for the purpose of searching for or obtaining 
minerals has been or is being carried on , not being a shaft or an 

excavation which extends below superjacent ground " . 
Reading therefore , Section 2 ( 1) (iv ) along with Section 2 ( j ) and Section 2 (kk ) It 
is plain that a quarry is a mine within the meaning of Section 2 ( a ) (i) of the Act . 

8 . On behalf of the workmen , reliance was placed on Item 8 Limestone under 
the Second Schedule to Section 9 of The Mines and Minerals (Regulation and 
Development) Act, 1957 ( Act 67 of 1957) , which deals with payment of royalties in 
respect of mining leases . Section 9 ( 1) lays down that the holder of mining lease 
shall pay royalty in respect of any mineral removed by him from the leased area 
at the rate for the time being specified in the Second Schedule in respect of that 
mineral and Second Schedule Item 8 deals with Limestone . This also , thereforo. 
supports the contention of the workmen that limestone quarry is a mine within 
the meaning of section 2 ( a ) (i) of the Act. 

Reliance was also placed , on behalf of the workmen , on Section 2 (18 ) of the 
Metalliferous Mines Regulations, 1961, which were made under Section 57 of the 
Mines Act, 1952 ( Act 35 of 1952 ) by the Central Government. Regulation 2 con 
tains definitions and It defines in Regulation 2 (18 ) "metalliferous mine " which 
" includes every mine other than a coal or an oi) mine." This also , therefore, sup 
ports the contention of the workmen that limestone quarry is a mine as envisaged 
by Section 2 (a ) (i) of the Act. 

9. For the reasons given above, I am satisfied that there is no merit in the con 
tention of Mr. Ranen Roy and , therefore , the first ground of his preliminary objec 
tion is over - ruled , I, therefore , hold that a limestone quarry is a mine within the 
meaning of Section 2 ( a ) (i) of the Act. 

10 . The second ground of Sri Ranen Roy , as indicated earlier , is that the Limes 
tone Quarry is a department of the Cement Factory of the Company and not an 
independent concern and , as such , it is a part and parcel of the cement Factory 
itself and the Cement Factory being admittedly situated at Chaibasa within the 
jurisdiction of the State Government, which is the appropriate Government in 
respect of the Factory , the quarry also , even if it is a mine, should be held to be 
under the State Government, and , therefore , on this ground also , the State Govern 
ment should be held to be the appropriate Government in respect of this quarry . 
In support of his contention , Shri Ranen Roy relied on a decision of the Supreme 
Court of India in Associated Cement Companies Limited (Chibasa Cement Works, 
Jhinkpani) Vs. Their workmen , 1960 ( I ) L . L . J . 1 . I do not think that this decision 
of the Supreme Court at all supports Shri Ranen Roy, This case is of the same 
company with which we are concerned here. In that case , S . K . Das J , speaking 
for the Court, at page 13 , held that the limestone quarry at Rajanka and the Fac 
tory at Jhinkpani constituted one establishment within the meaning of Clause ( ili) 
of Section 25E of the Act and were not separate establishments . Similar is the 
case here . The just mentioned decision of the Supreme Court, therefore , supports 
the workmen . 

In this connection , on behalf of the workmen , reliance was placed on paras 2 ( a ) , 
2 ( b ) and 2 ( d ) of the Standing Orders of the Company Exhibit W . 22 . Para 2 ( a ) 
defines a Worker as follows: 
" 2 ( a ). worker means all work people male or female employed in the 

quarries or in occupations connected with the work of quarries whose 
names are borne in the Schedule A Register under the Mines Act, 

1952" . 
Para 2 (b ) defines "Quarries which " means the Rajanka Limestone Quarrles , 

Jhinkpani." 
Para 2 (d ) defines Agent which means " the company s Agent for the quarries 
under the Mines Act and includes Acting Agent." 


812 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1985 / PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 


[Part II 


These Standing Orders are for the yorkers of Rajanka Limestone Quarries under 
the Associated Cement Companies Limited . This also supports that the limestone 
quarry and the cement factory constitute one establishment. 

I would , therefore , reject the Second ground also for contending that the State 
Government is the Appropriate Government within the meaning of Section 2 ( a ) (1) 
of the Act in respect of the present dispute , 


refer the dispute was the Central Government, as contemplated by Section 2 ( a ) ( 1) 
of the Act, and , as such , the reference made by the Central Government under 
section 10 ( 1) ( d ) of the Act is perfectly valld . 


12. On merit the only question is whether the termination of the services of 26 
workmen concerned with effect from 24th February 1964 was justifed . For decid 
ing this question it is necessary to state briefly the material facts relied upon by 
both the parties. These facts are as below : 

On 18th May 1963 the Manager of the Chaibasa Cement Works issued a notice 
Exhibit M . 4 Inviting applications for few temporary posts of mazdoors for quarries 
and mentioned therein that only candidates who had worked with the company in 
the past with good records and those who had given land to the company need 
apply . 

On 29th July , 1963. – Parkrai Deogam workman concerned , No . 11 , was given a 
letter of appointment Exhibit W . 24 to the effect that the management was pleased 
to appoint him as a temporary mazdoor in connection with the temporary work for 
a period of three months from 23rd May , 1963, to 2nd August, 1963 , at thcir Chai 
basa Cement Works Rajanka Limestone Quarries on the terms and conditions 
mentioned therein . Two of the conditions mentioned therein are important and 
may be mentioned here as they have been specifically relied upon by both parties . 
Condition No. 1 was that the appointment was purely temporary and the appointee 
can be discharged at any time without notice or compensation or assigning any 
reagon whether on completion of the work for which he was engaged or earlier and 
he will remain a temporary workman until and unless he was made permanent by 
order in writing by the company , whether he was working on the same temporary 
job on which he was engaged or some other job in the same department , some 
other department on the temporary or permanent work , Condition No . 4 was that 
the Rules of the company or decisions of Governmental Authorities or Awards of 
Tribunals or Agreements with the Union , which are or will be applicable to perma 
ment employees will not be applicable to him by right but the company may in their 


the employee concerned . It was conceded by both parties t at all the other 25 
workmen concerned were given letters of appointment on the same terms and con 
ditions as mentioned in Exhibit W . 24 . 

I may mention here that I am referring only to those documents which have been 
relied upon by the parties although the workmen Alled as many as 75 documents 
but they did not refer to or rely on more than 3 or 4 documents. 

Exhibit M . 11 , -- gives the names of the 26 workmen concerned with the dates of 
their appointment as entered in B register and the number of days they worked as 
given in D register , From Exhibit M . 11 it will appear that none of these 26 work . 
men worked for 240 days. The services of these 24 workmen were terminated 
admittedly on 24th February , 1964. 

Exhibit M . 7 , - Mentions the names of 24 workers and the number of days for 
which they worked and their total earnings in limestone and total earnings on over 
burden work . 

Exhibit M . 6 .- is a graph to show that overburden work done upto a certain 
period in 1962 -63 was more as compared with 1961 -62 in order to show that a new 
quarry was to be started and, therefore, overburden was really , essentially done by 
the workmen concerned and limestone work was only incidental. 

On behalf of the company reliance was placed on para 3 of the Standing Orders 
Exhibit W . 22 where a temporary worker has been defined in order to show that 
these 26 workmen concerned were engaged for work essentially of temporary nature 
and litrely to be finished in a limited period and as such they were issued temporary 
tickets and entered in schedule B register as temporary workers . 

13 . Relying on the above facts , it was contended , on behalf of the company , that 
the services of the concerned workmen were terminated in terms of their employ 
ment on 24th February , 1964 , and as such they were not entitled to any relief. It was 


Sec. 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : l EBRUARY 27, 1965/ PHALGUNA 8, 1886 813 


further contended , on behalf of the Company , that no doubt , according to the defini 
tion of fretrenchment , as given in Section 2 (00 ) of the Act , " retrenchment mcans 
the termination by employer of the service of a workman for any reason whatso 
ever , otherwise than as a punishment inflicted by way disciplinary action ," but, in 
the present case , it was not retrenchment as their services were terininated in terms 
of their employment, and, as such , retrenchment procedure was not applicable . In 
support of the contention that the termination of the services of the workmen con 
cerned did not amount to retrenchment, reliance was placed on a decision of the 
Labour Appellate Tribunal in Balkrishna Ganpat Vs. Ruston and Hornsby ( India ) 
Ltd ., Bombay, 1956 ( I ) L . L . J . 599 in which it was held that there was no obligation 
on the company to retain an apprentice for a particular period after the expiry of 
the contracted period and if the management intimated to the apprentice that his 
service would be no longer required after the expiry of the contracted 
period such action of the management could not be considered to amount to 
* retrenchment , and, as such , he could not claim any retrenchment compensation 
under Section 25F of the Act. 

In the alternatiyc , it was contended that if it was retrenchment even then the 
workmen concerned were not entitled to any compensation under Section 25F of 
the Act because under Section 25F of the Act the condition precedent to being 
entitled to get retrenchment is that he must have been in continuous service for not 
less than one year which is not the position in the present case . One year of con 
tinuous service has been defined in Section 25B of the Act which provides that 
during the period of 12 calendar months a workman must have actually worked in 
an industry for not less than 240 days in order to complete one year s service in 
the industry and these conditions not being present in the instant case none of the 
workmen were entitled to retrenchment compensation . For these reasons it was 
argued the procedure for retrenchment provided for in Section 25G of the Act was 
not followed 

On behalf of the workmen also it was conceded that their case was not a case 
of retrenchment. The question of retrenchment, therefore. docs not arise for deci 
sion , 

14 . The case of the workmen was that they should be considered to be Perma 
nent workmen as defined in para 3 ( i ) of the Standing Orders Exhibit W . 22, because 
para 3 ( iii) which defines a Temporary worker had no application to them . It would 
be useful here to read Para 3 ( iii) of thc Standing Orders Exhibit W . 22, which 


" Para 3 ( iii ) . - A “ Temporary worker is one who is engaged for work essen 

tially of a temporary nature and likely to be finished in a limited period 
and issued a temporary ticket and whose name has been entered in 

Schedule B Register as Temporary worker." . 
Relying on the above definition , the contention of the workmen was that these 
workmen concerned were engaged for work which was not likely to be finished in 
a limited period " , which is one of the essentials of para 3 ( iii) of Exhibit W . 22 , and , 
therefore , cannot be considered as Temporary workers . 

In order to support their contention that the work for which they were engaged 
was not " likely to be finished in a limited period" , reliance was placed on Ethibits 
M , 7 and M . 9 . Their contention was that the work , which they were doing , was of 
a permanent nature and not " of a temporary nature" , as contemplated by Standing 
Order No. 3 ( iii ) of Exhibit W . 22, in that , these concerned workmen were engaged 
in raising of limestone as will appear from cxhibit M , 7 and also of removal of 
overburden as will appear from Exhibit M , 9 and these two kinds of work cannot be 
said to be " likely to be finished in a limited period ” . To me also it appears that 
the stand taken by the workmen is correct . Admittedly these 26 workmen were 
engaged for raising of limestone as well as for removal of overburden . I cannot 
understand how then it can be said that the nature of this work was such that it 
was " likely to be finished in a limited period " . From the nature of the work there 
seems to be no doubt that the work was of a continuous and permanent operation 
in the quarries and the raising of limestone and the removal of overburden for 
which work admittedly these concerned workmen were engaged temporarily in the 
beginning being in the nature of a continuous feature connected with the manu 
facturing process there was no likelihood of closure of the mineral operation of the 
rəising of limestone and as such it must be held to be of a permanent nature . In 
this connection , reliance was placed , on behalf of the workmen , on a decision of the 


1961 ( 1 ) L . L . J . 649 , in which Das Gupta J , who spoke for the Court, held that to be 
a permanent workman within the moaning of the Standing Orders of that case , it 
is not necessary that the workman should be engaged in work throughout the year 
but what is necessary is that the work on which fie is engaged is of a permanent 


814 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965 / PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 


Part II 


nature and lasts throughout the year. In that case the definition of a permanent 
workman in the Standing Orders was in these words ; 
" A permanent workman is one who is engaged in a permanent nature of work 

throughout the year and has completed his probationary period , if any." 
In the instant case , a permanent worker has been defined in para 3 ( i) of the 
Standing Orders Exhibit W . 22 as one whose name has been entered in Schedule A 
Register as a Permanent worker . Here admittedly the names of these workmen are 


tion of a temporary worker , in para 3 ( iii ) of the Standing Orders Exhibit W . 22 read 
above, clearly envisages inter alia co - existence of two conditions, namely , ( 1 ) that 
the worker is engaged for work essentially of a temporary nature, and , ( 2 ) that 
such work is likely to be Anished in a limited period . 

In the instant case , I do not think that these conditions existed . Simply because 
the company called these workmen as temporary workers and treated them as such 
and issued appointments on that basis , in my opinion , will not be enough to destroy 
the rights of the workmen The above show a mala fide intention of the manage 
ment and nothing else. It is rather intriguing to find that the employment of these 
workmen , for instance , see Exhibits W2, W3, W . 7 , W8. W .10 , W . 15 , W . 16 , W .18 , 
W . 19 , W . 20 and W . 23, was admittedly being extended from time to time, but all on 
a sudden , obviously to prevent them completing one year s continuous service ( See 
Section 25B of the Act ) their employments are terminated overnight. This action 
of the company is highly condemnable and not at all praiseworthy and certainly 
not conducive to industrial peace and harmony. 

In the present case , it was not contended , on behalf of the company , that the 
work on which these workmen were engaged , is not of a permanent nature and 
that it did not last throughout the year. This position is admitted . 

For these reasons, it appears to me that these twentysix workmen must be con 
sidered to be permanent workmen and not temporary workmen within the mean 
ing of para 3 ( lii ) of the Standing Orders Exhibit W .22, 

15 . There is another aspect of the matter also . It appears from Exhibit W . 25 
dated 28th September , 1964 , a letter written by Manager of the company to the 
General Secretary of the Union , that with effect from 1st October , 1964 , 135 lempo 
rary workers of the Quarry, were taken on permanent roll by the company . It 
was admitted by both parties that 135 of them were senior to the 26 workmen con 
cerned , but two of them were appointed on the same day as thcsc workmen were 
appointed . In roply , it was contended , on behalf of the management, relying on 
Exhibit M . 5 , that these two workmen , namely , Chambru Hesa and Surja Gaur were 
given preference , and made permanent in terms of clause 7 of the Lease Exhibit 
M .8 and as such there was no question of violating the principle of Last Come First 
Go . This contention appears to be correct . 

Reference was also made to Exhibit W . 72 which is a letter dated 1st November, 
1982 from the Agent to the General Secretary of the Union , in which in para 2 it 
wag said that the temporary mazdoors when they were engaged were clearly told 
that they will have to load stones into the wagons, whether they load the stones 
on head - load or in Bhars , and , therefore if the mazdoors are willing to load stones 
into the wagons in Bhars, the company have got no objection so long as they tulal 
their duties for which they have been specially appointed . It was further said 
therein that these people were specially engaged for loading wagong in order to 
increase the output. This letter Exhibit W . 72 also , therefore, chows that these 
concerned workmen could not have been engaged on such temporary work which 
was likely to be finished in a limited period . 

It was argued , in reply , by the management, that Exhibit W . 72 has no applica 
tion to the workmen concerned because this letter was written in 1962, whereas 
these workmen were appointed in 1963, and in 1962 they were not in service then . 
That may be so , but Exhibit W . 72 shows the nature of work which the so - called 
temporary mazdoors had to do , 


It was then argued on behalf of the workmen , relying on Exhibit W . 73 , which 
is a letter from the Manager to the General Secretary of the Union , written on 15th 
March , 1963 relating to transportation and Shifting of matcrials , that the recom 
mendations of the Wage Board could be applied only in respect of the job which is 
of a permanent nature, and , as such , recommendation of the Wage Board has no 
application so far as the workers involved in such capital jobs are concerned . It 
was argued , on behalf of the workmen concerned , that as a matter of fact those 
26 workmen were getting wages according to the Wage Board recommendations and 
that also shows that they were treated as permanent workers by the company . I 


Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965 / PHALGUNA 8, 1886 815 


think there is some force . In reply , however , it was puinted out, referring to 
Chapter XIV , at page 81, of the Wage Board , wherein summary of other recom 
mendations is given by the Central Wage Board that in para 14 . 8 it had itself 
directed the same wages etc. to be paid to all and , therefore , the wages fixed by the 
Wage Board were paid . I do not think much can be made of this . 


Reference was also made to E .chibit W . 26 in order to show that there was a Re 
solution on Industrial Truce on 3rd November , 1962 , where under para II ( v ) It 
was agreed between the parties that all complaints pertaining to dismissal, dis 
charge , victimisation and retrenchment of individual workmen , not settled mutually 
should be settled by arbitration , but it was unfortunately not so in the present cage 
and the management has violated the terms of industrial truce . This is a question 
of moral obligation only . 


Lastly , on behalf of the company reference was made to Exhibit W . 25 , to which 
reference has already been made. It was argued that after appointment of 135 
workmen of quarry on permanent basis from 1st October , 1964. how can there be 
Viacancies for these temporary workmen where these can be made permanent and 
continued in service ? This is a point which , in my opinion , goes very much against 
the company and very much in favour of the workmen . I cannot understand if 
there is work for 135 workmen why there should be no work for 26 workmen . 
The stand of the management that there was work for 135 men and now there is 
no work for these 26 workmen concerned clearly goes to show the guilty mind of 
the company and prove its mala fide. 


16 . For the reasons given above, termination of these 26 workmcn concerned 
is declared to be mala fide and illegal and get aside. 


17. In the result, thc reference is answered by holding as below : 


( a ) That the management of Associated Cement Companies Limited , Jhinkpani, 
was not justified in terminating the services of the following 28 workmen of Rajanka 
Lamestone quarry from the 24th February, 1964 , and, therefore , their termination 
of pervices is set aside and they are reinstated to their previous jobs with full back 
wages and benefits : 


S . No. 


Name 


Ticket No . 


įmiriscimincinosis-ci 


T . 149 . 
T . 150 . 
T . 151. 
T . i52 . 
T . 153 
T . 154 
T . 155 . 
T . 156 


157 


Shri Kandey Hansda 
Shri Dasru Naik . 
Shri Abhiram Purty 
Shri Jagram 
Shri Turam Munda 
Shri Mangal Singh 
Shri Singrui Hessa 
Shri Nitu Heşsa 
Shri Bhaskoro Gowala 
Shri Jagarnath 
Shri Parkrai Deogam 
Shri Mangru Khandait 
Shri Nawru Balmuchu 
Shri Udai Balmuchu 
Shri Selai Balmuchi 
Shri Pachai 
Shri Suraj Kahndait 
Shri Pandu Kahndait 
Shri Dimbi Hessa 
Shri Radha Krishna Hesda 
Shri Nazir Nagi 
Shri Kurpa Hesda 
Shri Gulia Hesda 
Shri Arjoon Dags 
Shri Golaram 
Shri Sanatan Das 


HREFRESKEFEBERFREESIS 


T . 158 

166 
166 
167 
168 

169 
T . 170 
T . 171 
T . 172 
T . 173 
T . 174 
T . 175 
T . 176 

178 
T . 179 
T . 180 

181 


aggiunto 


816 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; FEBRUARY 27 1965 / PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 


FI ART II 


( b ) These 26 workmen were wrongly designated as temporary workmen by the 
company in accordance with the conditions laid down in item 3 ( ill) of the Stand 
Ing Orders of the Rajanka Limestone Quarry Exhibit W . 22 as it does not apply to 
these workmen , and , therefore , these 26 workmen are entitled to be treated as 
permanent workers and are declared as such . 

18 . This is the award which I make and submit to the Government of India , 
under Section 15 of the Act . 
DHANBAD , 
Dated the 2nd January, 1965 . 

Sd ./ - RAJ KISHORE PRASAN , 

Presiding Officer 
Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal, 

Dhanbad . 

[No . 22 / 22 / 64-LR . I. ) 


New Delhi, the 22nd February , 1965 . 
$ . 0 . 698 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of Shri L , P . 
Dave, Arbitrator , in the industrial dispute between the employers in relation to 
the Kathara Colliery of the National Coal Development Corporation Limited and 
their workmen , which was received by the Central Government on the 16th Feb 
ruary, 1966 . 


BEFORE SHRI L . P . DAVE , ARBITRATOR , CALCUTTA . 

REFERENCE NO. ABN -2 / 1984 
PARTIES : 
Employer s in relation to Kathara Colliery of National Coal Development 
Corporation Ltd ., 

· AND 
Their workmen (Represented by Coal Workers Union , P . O . Giridih , Dist. 

Hazaribagh ) . 


PRESENT: 

Shri L . P . Dave. — Arbitrator, 
APPEARANCES : 

On behalf of Employers -- Shri D . Narsingh , Advocate , Shri M . L . Gulhati, 


On behalf of workmen . - Shri Chaturanan Mishra , 
STATE : Bihar, 

INDUSTRY ; Coal Mines. 

AWARD 
An industrial dispute arose between the employers in relation to the Kathara 
colliery of the National Coal Development Corporation Ltd ., and their workmen 
represented by the Coal Workers Union , Giridih , mainly on the question whether 
the N . C . D . C . was justified in awarding loading work to a contractor. The parties 
agreed to refer the said dispute to me for arbitration . They signed an agreement 
to this effect under yub - section ( 1 ) of Section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act 
and set it to the Government of India , who published it under sub - section ( 3 ) of 
the above section by their order No . 8 / 123 /64 - LR . II dated 14th August, 1964 , 

2 . In response to notices issued by me, both the parties Aled their written 
statements . The matter was then fixed for hearing. At thal time, both parties 
admitted certain facts and requested me to visit and inspect the colliery and to 
verify and ascertain different facts by making oral cquiries . They agreed that I 
need not make notes in writing and that I may act on the spot enquiries made by 
me. Accordingly I visited and inspected the collicry , saw different places, heard 
several persons and ascertained different facts . Both parties then stated that they 
did not want to lead any oral evidence . Arguments were thereafter heard and I 
now procced to give my award in this case . 


SEC. 3 (11) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965 / PHALGUNA A, 1886 817 


3 . Most of the facts in the casc are not in dispute . Originally the work of 
loading of coal in the Kathara colliery was being done by a contractor who used 
to employ his own labour for the same. In about September , 1963, the colliery 
abolished the contract system and started doing this work departmentally . It 
appears that they took over the workmen who were working under the contractor 
and engaged them as their direct employees . From about 16th June, 1964 , how 
ever , the contract system was again introduced and the work of loading is being 
done thcreaſter by a contractor who employs his own workers for the same, The 
workers who had been engaged by the colliery as their direct employees have 
been discharged by the colliery ; but the contractor has engaged them as his em 
ployees. In other words, these workers at present are not out of employment, but 
the workers case is that the colliery was not justified in re - introducing the con 
tract system and that the workmen should be continued as the direct employecs 
of the colliery . 

4 . The Union mainly relies on the finding of a Court of Enquiry constituted by 
the Government to report among other things on the question whether the system 
of employment of labour through or by contractors and sub - contractors in the coal 
inining industry could be abolished without impairing productivity and if so , in 
which case of cmployment. While the proceedings were pending before the Court 
of Enquiry , the employers represented by their three main associations viz ., Indian 
Mining Association , Indian Mining Federation and Indian Colliery Owners Associa 
tion and the workers represented by their important labour organisations viz ., 
Indian National Mine Workers Federation , Koyala Mazdoor Panchayat, Colliery 
Mazdoor Congress , Hind Mazdoor Sabha and Indian Mine Workers Federation 
entered into a settlement. The National Coal Development Corporation Ltd ., also 
subscribed to that agreement. Under this settlement, it was agreed that all pro 
cesses directly connected with the raising and despatch of coal should be the 
direct responsibility of the principal employer and all workers engaged therein 
were to be employees of the principal employer except in the seven categories 
mentioned in para 2 of the agreement. The court of Enquiry accepted this agree 
inent and held that the said agreement should be accepted for the time being and 
that contract labour should be abolished as early as possible in all categories 
except those specifically referred to in para 2 of the agreement. 

5 . The fourth category which was to be excluded under this agreement was 
“ Coal loading and unloading , provided that the principal employer shall engage a 
nucleus of wagon and truck loaders to whom regular work can be guaranteed ; the 
number of such nucleus to be reviewed quarterly " . This would mean that under 
the above agreement the work of loading and unloading could be given to con 
tractors ; but the employers were required to keep a nucleus of loaders to whom 
regular work could be guaranteed . 


6 . Shri Chaturanan Misra , who appeared on behalf of the workmen , firstly 
urged that having once abolished the contract system in loading and unloading, 
the employers have no right to re - start that system . I do not think that any dis 
tinction can be made betwcen starting a system for the first time or continuing a 
system or restarting a system . Normally contract system has got to be abolished 
and the employer should engage direct employees for all work relating to pro 
cesses directly connected with the raising and despatch of coal. It makes no 
difference whether the system is introduced for the first time or whether the 
system , which was already in vogue, had been abolished and was proposed to be 
started again . The important question would be whether the system is justificd 
or not Irrespective of the fact whether it had been abolished or not earlier , 

7 . The employers case is that formerly the Indian Railways purchased large 
quantities of coal from this colliery and a number of wagons was supplied regular 
ly every day , and they required a number of loaders for this . So also , the Bokaro 
Thermal Power Station of the Damodar Valley Corporation used to purchase large 
quantities of coal and this coal was sent in trucks, and for this also , the colliery 
required loaders . Of late , however , the Railways have considerably reduced their 
orders , and the supply of wagons was reduced . It is also not rcgular, The Bokaro 
Power Station is also now not purchasing coal from this colliery . They have thus 
very little work for loaders , and that too , not regular . They now require Juaders 
only occasionally ; hence they cannot maintain a nucleus of loaders to whom work 
could be given regularly . Hence , they have given the work to a contractor . 

8 . In support of their contentions, the employers have produced several state 
ments . They go to show that formerly the railways used to purchase large 
quantities of coal from this colliery and a large number of railway wagons had 
been alloted every day . In the year 1961, the supply of wagons to this colliery 
was almost regular. In no month were less than 1, 500 wagons supplied to the 


818 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JEBRUARY 27 1965 / PHALGUNA A , 1886 [ PAKT II 


colliery ; actually in one month the supply rose to as much as 2457. In 1962 also , 
the supply of wagons was quite satisfactory. In 1963 though the supply was 
satisfactory during the early months, it was not so during the later months. In 
this year, the supply fell to 1286 in the inonth of October . I also find that the 
supply was not regular . On several days, there was no supply of wagons at all . 
The position however became very bad in 1964, In the Arst four months, supply 
of wagons was 1444 , 1101 , 1491 and 1452 respectively , with no supply on several 
days. From May to October , the supply was 651, 738 , 286 , 502 , 219 and 419 res 
pectively . The number of days on which wagons were supplied was 8 in May , 8 
in June, 4 in July , 7 or 8 in August, 3 in September and 7 or 8 in October . 

9. There is thus great force in the contention of the employers that in view 
of this position they could not keep nucleus of wagon loaders to whom regular 
work could be guaranteed . The supply was erratic . The colliery required a 
number of loaders on the days on which the wagons were supplied ; but they did 
not require any loaders on more than 20 days in a month . If, in the circumstances , 
the employers thought it fit to get the work done by or through a contractor, I 
cannot say that it was not justified . To keep a large number of persons idle for 
a number of days in a month only to see that they get work for 7 or 8 days would 
certainly be uneconomic and not desirable . 

10 . The employers have also produced statements showing supply of coal by 
road to the Bokaro Power Thermal Station day by day and month by month They 
show not only that this supply of coal is not regular but that it is now almost 
stopped . Hence for this purpose also they do not require any nucleus of loaders 
to whom work can be given regularly . 

11. It has been alleged in the written statement of the union that " corruption 
has pervaded most of the State Undertakings, as a result of which the coal con 
suming State undertakings like D . V . C . and the Railways are behaving in a way 
detrimental to the N . C . D . C ." The reply of the employers is that they are not 
aware of corrupt practices in the public sector undertakings . They have however 
admitted that the demand of the Damodar Valley Corporation and the Rajlwayg 
from Kathara colliery has substantially gone down and the supply of wagons to the 
colliery had become very erratic . 

12. On my visit to the colliery , I found that the Bokaro Thermal Power Station 
was quite close to Kathara colliery . This power station belongs to the Damodar 
Valley Corporation , which is a Government of India undertaking . The Kathara 
colliery belongs to National Coal Development Corporation Ltd , which is also a 
Government of India undertaking . The thermal power station requires large quan 
tities of coal and one would expect that they would take coal froń the nearest 
colllery as it would save them the cost of transport. The Damodar Valley Corpora 
tion is not a party before me and I do not know the reasons which induced them 
to stop taking moal directly from the Kathara colliery . I would therefore not be 
justined in expressing any opinion on this point. But I do feel that appropriate 
authorities should make an enquiry in the matter . 

13. In this connection , I may mention that though the thermal power station 
does not take coal directly from Kathara colliery, it takes coal produced by Kathara 
colliery . It gives orders to contractors who purchase some coal from the Kathara 
colllery and supply it to the thermal power station . In other yords, the Kathara 
coal does not appear to be of a quality unacceptable to the thermal power station , 

14 . I may also refer here to some correspondence between the officers of the 
Damodar Valley Corporation and the National Coal Development Corporation . It 
appears therefrom that the Damodar Valley Corporation officers were not satisfied 
with the quality of coal supplied to them . They have alleged that the quantity 
supplied to them contained a large quantity of stone and shelly matters ; that ash 
content was high ; and that no proper picking or screening was done before the coal 
was supplied to them . 

15 . Similarly I find that the Indian Railways were formerly placing orders of 
moal from Kathara colliery but now they have considerably reduced their orders. 
I-Iere also I find correspondence showing complaints from the railways that coal was 
not properly screened and that the loading was not also satisfactory . 

16 . I may repeat that I am not in a position to express any opinion in this 
respect . But I do feel that an enquiry in the matter is necessary . The fault may 
be improper supervision at the Kathara colliery or the fault may be at the other 
end or the fault may be at both ends. Normally , a public sector undertaking should 
take coal from the nearest colliery — more so when it is also a public sector under 
laking - unless , of course , there are strong grounds to adopt a contrary course . An 
enquiry should enable the authorities to find out where the fault lies , so that it 
could be set right. 


Suco 3 ( 11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965 / PHALGUNA 8, 1886 


819 


very little loading work , Even if this is due to inefficiency or carelessness , the fact 
remains that they have no regular work for loaders and they cannot maintain & 
nucleus of loaders to whom regular work can be given . 


18 . At the time of arguinents , Shri Mishra on behalf of the Union contended 
that there was now a change in the circumstances ; that the colliery had received 
17 rakes in January 1965 and 20 in February ; they could therefore maintain a 
nucleus of loaders and hence there was no necessity of giving work to the con 
tractor, On the other hand , I was told by Shri Narsingh on behalf of the employers 
that they had received only 10 rakes in January (though they had been told that 
they would receive 14 rakes ) and that in February they have been told that they 
would get 9 rakes; but they have so far received only one , 


10 . Temporary iimprovement would not justify a finding that the management s 
action is not proper. What has got to be looked into is the circumstances prevailing 
at the time when the management took the action , which gave rise to this dispute . 
At that time there could be no doubt that the management was justified in dis 
charging their regular employees and getting the work done by a contractor if and 
when necessary . Again the alleged improvement may be only temporary and there 
may be a set back after some time. If there is a permanent improvement, the 
matter may require to be reviewed . In this connection , however, it may be men 
tioned that the colliery is having a washery very soon and when the washery goes 
into operation , no loaders would he required as the coal would be mechanically 
loaded . 


20 . It was then argued on behalf of the workmen that the contractor has sum 
cient work for these workmen and if he could employ them without keeping them 
idle for any day , there is no reason why the colliery would not be able to do so . 


colliery but he is doing other work also. For instance , he is doing work of loading 
coal which he has agreed to supply to the thermal power house . This work is not 
of Kathara colliery . When the workmen do this work , they could not be said to 
be doing work of the colliery . The contractor is also doing the work of manutac 
turing of coke etc . Some of his workers also do the work of sercening of coal etc . 
Hence he can keep his labour engaged in different kinds of work , no one would be 
idle even if there is no work of loading in the rolliery . 


21 . On the whole , I think that the colliery has not enough work which requires 
A nucleus of loaders to whom work could be given regularly , and it was therefore 
justified in having the work done through the contractor, Incidentally I may men 
ion here that the main reason for the abolition of contract system is that the con 
tractors do not pay proper wages to their workers and that they resort to mal 
practices . In the present case , however, no allegation of any sort was made against 
the contractor, 


22 . In the result. I hold that the N . C .D . C , was justified in an arding the loading 
work to A contractor . That being so, the workmen concerned are not entitled to 
any relief, 


I pass my Award accordingly , 


The 12th February 1965 . 


Sa . / - L , P , DAVE , 

Arbitrator, 


No, 8 / 123 /64 - LR , II.1 


ORDER 


New Delhi, the 22nd February , 1965 


S . O . 699 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Kendwadih Colliery of 


820 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965 / PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 


[PART II 


Messrs Hurriladih Coal Company Limited, Post Office Bhaga , District Dhanbad , 
and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed ; 


And , whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tri 
bunal, Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 


SCHEDULE 


Whether the action of the management of the Kendwadih Colliery of Messrs 
Hurriladih Coal Company Limited in imposing idleness on Sarvashri Charan Singh 
and Rewal Mahato , C . C . Machine Drivers, with effect from the 1st June, 1964 , was 
justified ? If not , to what relief are the workmen entitled ? 


[ No . 2 / 132 / 64 -LR - II. ] 


H . C . MANGHANI, Under Secy . 


CORRIGENDUM 


New Delhi, the 16th February 1965 


S . O . 700, - In the Notifcation of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour and Employment No . S . O . 39 , dated the 18th December , 1964 , published 
at pages 20 to 43 in Part II - - Section 3 - - Sub - section ( ii ) of the Gazette of India , 
dated the 2nd January , 1965, for " and be placed on a scale of 60130 . In any 
case since they are promoted from the patternmakers," occurring in lines 11 and 
12 of paragraph 33 at page 38 , read " and outdoor flotilla , 9 fitters ( I . C . E .) from 
the Motor Shop , 6 Carpenters from the Pattern -makers " . 


(No. 28 / 54 / 63 / LR -IV . ] 


O . P . TALWAR , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM & CHEMICALS 


New Delhi, the 15th February 1985 


S . O . 701, — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum between Undera near 
Baroda in Gujarat State to Baroda City in Gujarat State , pipelines should be laid 
by thọ Oll and Natural Gas Commission and that for the purpose of laying such 
pipelines , it is necessary to acquire the right of user in the lands specified in the 
Schedule annexed hereto . 


2 . Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
Section 3 of the Petrolcum Pipelines ( Acquisition of Right of User in Land ) Act, 
1962 (50 of 1962 ) the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein . 


Sec. 3 ( il )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965 / PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 


821 


3 . Any person interested in the said lands may, within 21 days from the date 
of this notification , object to the laying of the pipelines under the land to the 
competent authority at L . M . P , Building , 4th Floor, Sayaji Ganj, Baroda in the 
office of the Gujarat Pipelines Project, Oil and Natural Gas Commission . Every 
person making such an objection shall also state specifically whether he wishes 
to be heard in person or by a legal practitioner . 


SCHEDULE 


STATE - GUJARAT 


DISTRICT - BARODA 


TALUKA - BARODA 


Village 


Surycy 
No. 


Acrc 


Guntha 


Sg. Yds. 


Undera 


108 


319 
Road 
317 
316 
314 
312 
Road 
Road 


73 


IOI 


AKH 


Gouva . 


Road 


562 


78 


108 


564/ A 

563 
, 559 / 1 
• 564 /P 
, 544 


Io6 


16 


I14 


48 


II 


542 
Road 


3 


IIZ 


HOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOHOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


J07 


19 


435 
434/ 1 + 2 
417 
416 
415 T 
400 
401 
4151 
404 
405 
406 
412 
414 
Road 
705 
706 
707 
709/ 2 
Road 


OOOHCONNAOWANW00 


Z 


718 


710 
716 
Road 
713 
1180 


21 


[No. 31 / 38 / 63 -ONG . I 


822 THE CAZETTE OF 


822 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965 / PHALGUNA 8, 1886 (PART II 


New Delhi, the 20th February 1965 


$ . O . 702 .-- Whereas It appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum between Barauni Re 
finery in Bihar State and Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh State pipelines should be laid 
by the Indian Oil Corporation Limited and that for the purpose of laying such 
pipelines , it is necessary to acquire the right of user in the land described in the 
schedule annexed hereto ; 


2 . Now therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by Sub -Section ( 1 ) of 
section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in Land ) Act, 
1962 ( 50 of 1982 ), the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein , 


3 . Any person interested in the said land may, within 21 days from the date 
of this notification , object to the laying of the pipelines under the land to the 
Competent Authority at 7 / 166 , Swarupnagar, Kanpur. Every person making 
such an objection shall also state specifically whether he wishes to be heard in 
person or by a legal practitioner . 


SCHEDULE 


State - .Uttar Pradesh 


Tahsil — Meja . 


District Allahabad . 


Village 


Survey No 


Extent 


Village 


Survey No 


Extent 


в 


в 


в 


в вів | 

4 . Kukri- contd . 
I 5 
O O IO 


I. Baksandi 


544 


545 


547 


70 


5 . Chak Diha , 


. 


272 
273 / 1 
275 
277 
281 


51/ 2 
52 
53 / 1 


Oonuo 


308 


7 . Manpur 


, 


. 


109 / 1 
109 / 2 


311 /2 
313 
267 / 2 
309 / 2 
310 /2 


0 


8 . Nahwai 


62/2 
78 / 2 


1 


0 


TO 


9r 


2 . Hempur 


44 / 1 


98 
140 
141 
142 
143 


00000000000000000000000000000000000 NHONNOHHON+HTWHOOHAMMONOOO 


UO 


оооооооооооооооооооооооооооооооо 


3 . Bela Ahiran . 


27/ 2 


O 


9 . Tikri 


. 


. 


. 


I IO 


2812 


142 / 2 
597 
599 


I 


OOO 


30 
36 / 2 
44 /3 


10 . Umapur Kalan 


. . 


I 10 
то 


45 /2 
50 / 1 
50 /4 


118 
124/ 2 
469 
484 
487 
498 


O OIO 


4. Kukri , 


. 


1 


0 


о р 10 
O O 15 
OOS II. Garetha 
005 


, 


169 
219 / 1 
220 


781 


OOoOOO 


070 
o 2 5 
O 30 
O O IO 
04 0 


483 


484 


517 


I 18 


232 


Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965 / PHALGUNA 8, 1886 823 


Village 


Survey 


Extent 


Village 


Survey 


Extent 


No . 


No. 


- 


в 


в 


в 


II . Garctha - -contd . 


233 


0 14 13. Urwa , 
O IO 


. 


53 


258 /2 


265 
266 / 2 
266 /3 
267/ 3 


136 / 1 
136 /2 
137 
147 
169 
170 
171 
469 
509 / 1 


12 . Chauktha Lachhan 


I TO 
2 15 14 . Lehndi 


172 / 1 
173 
190 
211 
212 / 1 
225 
231 
241 
242 
299 
300 / 1 


00000000000000000000000000 

NHROMANONMAMAH 


HO-WOOWHO 

ooooo ооооооооооо 


533 
534 

542 
· 297/1 
. 135 /2 

140 
143 
146 / 5 
147 
152 


0000000000000000000000 


|soooooosesoooooooъобGooo 


0 0 5 15. Bisahjan Khurd 

16 . Bisahjan Kalan 


300 / 2 
301 


306 
307 
310 
3II 


3 0 17. Kathauli 


839 


316 


I IO 


845 
1013 


396 


o 


[ No. 31 / 50 / 63 - ONG- 1.J 


S . O . 103. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum between Barauni Re 
finery in Bihar State and Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh State , pipelines should be laid 
hy the Indian Oli Corporation Limited and that for the purpose of laying such 
pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the right of user in the land described in 
the schedule annexed hereto ; 

2 . Now therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by Sub -Section ( 1 ) of 
Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines ( Acquisition of Right of User in Land ) Act, 
1962 ( 50 of 1962 ) , the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein . 

3 . Any person interested in the said land may , within 21 days from the date 
of this notification , object to the laying of the pipelines under the land to the 
Competent Authority at 7 / 166 , Swarupnagar , Kanpur, Every person making such 
an objection shall also state specifically whether he wishes to be heard in person 
or by a legal practitioner , 


SCHEDULE 


STATE : UTTAR PRADESH 


TAHSIL : KARCHHANA 


DISTRICT; ALLAHABAD 


Village 


Village 


Suryey 


Extent 


No. 


No 


BBB 


I. Indalpur 


O4 15 


0102. Chak Muin Uddinpur 52/1 
0015 

52 / 2 
010 3. Chak Ate Ulla 52 " 
O O 10 

1 4. Chuk Qazi . 


O 15 
6 5 


OOOOO 


OOOOO 


NNO 


ogo 


3 8 
8 Is 


824 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : l EBRUARY 27 1965 / PHALGUNA 8, 1886 


[Part II 


Village 


Survey 

No. 


Extent 


Village 


Survey 
No. 


Extent 


4 . Chak Qazi- contd . 


7 


9 . Mahuwari Taluqe 335 / 1 

Lawaincontd , 


21 
25 


336 / 1 
336 / 2 


ดีด0 


5. Chaka . 


. 


Jo . Chak Mohammad 


. 21/2M 

25 /2 
29 


Waris 


. 


. 


71/ 1 


71/2 


5 


2 


S 


90 
94 
102 / 1 , 2 
1023 
108 
109 
113 


๕ตหหห3-5 


278 
282 


II. Beuhara 


. 


80 /2 


343 
344 


82 


OT 


346 


95/ 1 


347 / 1 


95 /2 


350 


96 


357 
359 
521 


๐๐๐๐๐๐ 


100 
103 / 

3 


0 


NNMOANHMOONooo00000000000000000000000000000000000000 

HNO-HNOHH 
OHNOMN 
OOHNNHHHN 
ANNO 


522 


272 
275 / 1 , 2 


523 / 1 
692 


12 . Hardua 


, 


, 


31 
34 / 1 


6 . Chhionki 


99 / 1 
100 


34/ 2 


ดีมี๐๐ 


IO 


7 . Dadri Taluqe Noini 

Dadri 


61 


0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000 

AHNOWHOinOOHHAHOANWnAWOO-Owkucow 

หีเด66633600ลดดี066ที่ดีด000000 

on9VOOHOONODUNONWHWENNHO ūnünooooooo65000060B 


264 /5 
264/6 
264 / 18 
264/ 20 
264 /34 


. 


. 


2855 
2860 
2861 
2862 
2864/ 2 
2865 
2866 
2867 
2940 


๘๐๐หวี 


8 . Bharohun 


86 / 1 


86 / 4 
86 / 5 


2959 


9 . Mahuwari Taluqe 

Lawain 


๐๐๐๐ 


144 


146 


2960 
2962 / 2 
2964/ 

1 


0 


164 
165 
166 / 1 
166 / 2 
167 
169 / 1 


14 . 


Basaria 


, 


Ι 


Ο 


265 / 1 

266 / 3 
266 / 4 

279 
287 / 2 


263 


Ο ΙΟ 
I IO 
Ι Ο 
I JO 


265 
267 / 1 
268 
270 


325 


000000000000 


I 


365/ 1 
389 


5 


271 


O 2o 


272/ 1 
272/ 2 
274 


15. Bharha 
16 . Gandhyan . 


. 


627 


275 


$ 75 
668/3 
668 / 14 
668 / 29 
668 / 30 , 

31 
682 


OOOO 


279 
280 
321 


0 IO 
0 2 0 


322 


325 


0 


1 


0 


Sec . 3 (i )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965/ PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 


825 


Village 


Survey No . 


Extent. 


Village 


Survey 
No. 


· Extent 


16 . Gandhyan - contd . 


17 . Ghore Dech - contd . 


557 


558 


2 


18 . Bastar 


, 


272 


04 0 


683 
684/ 1 
700 
710 / 2 
716 
719 
722 
726 
729 /6 
731 


274 


275 


810 


00000000000000 

ANwwwNwonownto nutooooooouoouo. 


817 


68ооо,бомбаоои 


oo000000000000 


818 


ΟΙ ΙΟ 


19 . Kachri 


. 


. 


17. Ghore Dech 


160 / 3 
192 
202 / 1 
204 
230 
231/ 2 


ONO 


[ No. 31 / 50 / 63- ONG- 2 .] 


$ . 0 . 704 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum between Barauni Re 
finery in Bihar State and Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh State , pipelines should be laid 
by the Indian Oil Corporation Limited and that for the purpose of laying such 
pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the right of user in the land described in the 
schedule annexed hereto ; 

2 . Now therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Section ( 1 ) of 
Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in Land ) Act, 
1962 ( 50 of 1962 ), the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user thercin . 

it . Any person interested in the said land may, within 21 days from the date 
of this notification , object to the laying of the pipelines under the land to the 
Competent Authority at 7 / 166 , Swarupnagar, Kanpur. Every person making such 
an objection shall also state specifically whether he wishes to be heard in person 
or tv a legal practitioner . 

SCHEDULE 
STATE : UTTAR PRADESTI TAHSIL : CHAIL 

DISTRICT : ALLAHABAD . 


Village 


Survey 

No. 


Extent 


Village 


Survey 


Extent 


No. 


в 


в 


в 


B BB 


2 . Malak Nagar 


1 . Ashrafpur Taluge 

Asadullapur 


I 


0 


GT 


2 IO 
I IO 
2 IS 


OID 


IO 


9 


10 


o 45 


O 


о то 

| 3. 


OOW-OO 


Aniilokipur 


O IO 


661M 
ΠΙΟ 
714M 
714M 
718 
733 / 1 
1370 
1371 
1449 
1450 
1451 
1457 / 1 
1460 
1462 
1470 
1471 
1480 


00000000000000000 


0 0 10 
O 25 

ο Ιο 
2 TO 
I IO 
OJO 


OOOOOOO0000000000 


4 I 
I 10 


65 


66 


6 


76A 
206 
214 
217 
225 
297 


0 2 0 
o 9 IO 
O IO 
0 1 0 
0 I 15 
03 0 


o 15 


1 . Thor . 


Vi 


Inhua 


826 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965/ PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 (PART II 


Village 


Survey 


Extent 


Village 


Survey 
No, 


Extent 


No. 


4 . Mahmoodpur 


O IO 


o 30 
0 I 15 

O 10 


120 /2M 
IZIM 
123M 
134M 
137M 
149M 
150M 
152M 


8 . KasariMasarl-contd , 

1383 
1721 
1724 
1750 
1751 


IO 


000000 OMANNH 


0 


1753 


o 
O 


O IO 
o 5 
I 5 
I IO 
I 0 
2 0 


| 9 . 


Bajupur 


, 


435 
436 
466 


OOOO 


467 


OOOOOOOOOOO 


5 . Muhiuddinpur , 


oonhuonotou 


195 


0 


IO 


6 . Mubarakpur Kutwa 252M 


ONONOHOOHHHNNONS 

000000 


0 5 15 
o 6 10 
04 0 
I IIS 


256B 
2574 


o 


287M 


10 . Chak Bajupur 


7. Rejruppur 


ocătoo 


203M 
210 
212 
213 


mmTMT 


OOOOOOOOOO 


0 


10 


11. Karajli 


, 


5 


OVOCN 


V 


220 
227 


Ο ΙΟ ΙΟ 


147 


8. Kasari Masari 


. . 


como 

OOONOWwwah ouoooooondo5oubonoWOOKWww0-NOW 


149 
150 
151 


O 


275 


non 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO MALORMOHTOMHHNMNH 


296 
297 


3 IC 
IS 
I IO 

5 


1159 


IO 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


301 


1160 


302 


304 


MON 


306 


1198 
1199 
1276 
1338 
1355 / 1 
1360 
1381 


10 | 12 . Sadiyapur , 
O 3 1 13. Mirapur . 


S 


. 
. 


171M 
51/1M 


0 1 0 
02 10 


- 


[ No. 31 / 50 / 63- ONG -3. 5 


S . O . 105 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum between Barauni Re 
Anery in Bihar State and Haldia Port in Calcutta in West Bengal State , pipelines 
should be laid by the Indian Oil Corporation Limited and that for the purpose of 
laying such pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the right of user in the land 
described in the Schedule annexed heroto ; 


2 . Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by Sub -Section ( 1 ) of 
Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in Land ) Act, 
1962 ( 50 of 1962 ) , the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein . 


SEC. 3 ( ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965 / PHALGUNA 8, 1888 


827 


3 . Any person interested in the said land may , within 21 days from the date 
of this notification , object to the laying of the pipelines under the land to the 
Competent Authority , 9, Syed Amir Ali Avenue , Calcutta - 17 in the office of the 
Indian Oil Corporation Limited . Every person making such an objection shall 
also state specifically whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal 
practitioner . 

SCHEDULE 
State: WesT BENGAL Dist . HOOGHLY 

Tehsil / Thana: HARIPAL 


Village 


Survey No . Extent 
( Plot No.) ( Area) 


Village 


Survey No. Extent 
( Plot No.) (Arca ) 


BALIA , J. L .4 . 


•16 


BALTA , J.L . 4 - contd . 


07 


OI 


. IO 
. 14 


290 
291 
294 
295 
309 
315 


170 
171 
175 


05 


" IO 


* 12 
· 10 


" 0 


394 


. 


177 
179 
181 
182 


Oz 
. 18 


IA 


· 10 

10 
. 12 
08 
12 


399 
405 


279 
280 


590 
591 


16 
08 
IA 
- 06 


281 


. 16 


282 


593 
641 
900 


02 
•OI 


01 
104 


283 


289 


02 


[No. 31 / 33 / 63 -ONG -i. ] 
8 . 0 . 706. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum between Barauni Re 
finery in Bihar State and Haldia Port in Calcutta in West Bengal State , pipelines 
should be laid by the Indian Oil Corporation Limited and that for the purpose 
of laying such pipelines , it is necessary to acquire the right of user in the land 
described in the Schedule annexed hereto ; 

2 . Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines ( Acquisition of Right of User in Land ) Act , 
1962 ( 50 of 1962 ), the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein , 

3 . Any person interested in the said land may , within 21 days from the date 
of this notification , object to the laying of the pipelines under the land to the 
Competent Authority , 9 , Syed Amir Ali Avenue, Calcutta - 17 in the office of the 
Indian Oli Corporation Limited . Every person making such an objection shall 
also state specifically whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal 
practitioner . 

ADDENDUM 

SCHEDULE 
Stale: WEST BENGAL Dist. MIDNAPORE Tehsil/ Thana : 

DASPUR 


Village 


Village 


Survey Nos. Extent 
(Plot Nos.) (Area ) 


Survey Nos. Extent 
(Plot Nos .) (Area ) 


. 12 


·005 Jot Ghanshyam , J. L . 

02 i 240 - - contd . 


JotGhanshyam , J. L . 240 2628 

2629 
2630 
2631 
2639 
2644 


2652 
2667 
2681 
2682 
2683 
2684 


42 
17 
15 


OI 


04 


* 14 


828 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEB, 27, 1965/ PHALGUNA 8, 1886 [ PART II - SEC . 3 ( ii) ] 


Village 


Survey Nos, Extent 
(Plot Nos.) (Area ) 


Village 


Şurvey Nos. Extent 
(Plot, Nos .) (Arca ) 


Kultikri , J .L . 241 — -contd . 


* 18 
005 


Jot Ghanshyam , J. L . 240 2685 
- contd . 

2717 
2718 
2719 
2722 
2815 
2822 


OS 


* OS 


I2 


275 


82 


837 


. IS 


847 


18 


848 


TO 


5498 
5586 
5587 
5588 
5598 
5599 


855 


856 
858 


5604 
5605 
5606 
5607 
5608 
5609 
5610 


862 
863 


04 


22 
IO 
- 02 
* 10 

I2 
- 08 
12 


864 


5633 
5636 


5634 


OI 
22 
. 22 
* 18 


06 


. 


5639 


28 


22 


5640 


03 


02 


. 25 


5641 
5648 
5649 
5651 
5652 
5653 


· 005 
· 005 

02 
· 10 


- 16 
10 


. 


X 


. 


. 


. 


5654 


865 
866 
867 
1002 
1005 
1424 
1427 
1451 
1452 
1453 
1454 
1456 
1459 
1460 
1461 
1464 
1465 
1466 
1796 
1869 
1874 
1875 
1876 


5655 


5656 


5657 


04 
- 02 
03 
02 


. 005 


5658 
5659 
5660 
5690 
5691 


" 


O 


03 


O 


Kultikri, J. L .241 


IO 


05 


1877 


IHKO OOAMN 


06 


06 


04 
oos 


1936 
1937 
1940 
1943 
1949 
1950 


IO 
18 


172 
232 


. IO 


233 


OI 


10 
.06 


234 


[ No. 31 / 33/ 63 - ONG -ii.] 
P , P . GUPTA , Under Secy . 


Elmiris 


PAINTED KINDER BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PREAS . 
NEW DELHI PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1965 


