eforte I TO ST- ( 1 ) - 78 


REGISTERED NO . DAD 


CRETARIAT 


: 


: 


On 
भारतको राजपत्र 
The Gazette of India 


सम्याजको 


प्राधिकार से प्रकाशित 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


- - - -- - -- - : - _ - = :: : - : : 


:. -- - - --- - - - - - ... - . . -- - - -- -- -- - -- - - - - --- -- -- - --- - ! ** " .--... - - - -- - 


o 26 ] 

A facut, aftente , fana 23, 1978 ( 317fen 1, 1900 ) 
No. 26 ] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY , SEPTEMBER 23, 1978 (ASVINA 1, 1900 ) 
- - - -- - - - -- -- - ----- - : - 
इस भाग में भिन्न पृष्ठ संख्या दी जाती है जिससे कि यह अलग संकलन के रूप में रखा जा सके । 

Separate paging is given to tbis Part in order that Itmay be filed as a separate compilation . 


- 


.. 


. .VILN 


JL . 


e 


ure va . 


. 


HTT III – 3 

PART III - SECTION 3 
लघु प्रशासनों से सम्बन्धित अधिसूचनाएं 
Notifications relating to Minor Administrations 


UNION TERRITORY OF DADRA AND NAGAR 

HAVELI 
ADMINISTRATION OF 
DADRA AND NAGAR HAVELI 
Noti. No, ADM / LAW / 137 / 77 


Silvassa , the 1st August 1978 


No . ADM / LAW / 137 / (22 ) / 78 . - In exercise of the powers 
conferred by Section 16 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 
( Act 37 of 1952 ) read with the Government of India , Minis 
try of Home Affairs, Notification No . F / 2 / 3 / 72 -UTL , dated 
4th May, 1972 , the Administrator, Dadra and Nagar Haveli , 
hereby makes the following Rules , 


( b ) " Cinema " mcans Any place wherein an exhibition by 

means of cinematograph is given . 
" enclosure " means the separate room or cabin pro 
vided under rule 21 in which Cinematograph machine 
or machines are housed . 

" Form " mcans a form appended to these rules 
( e ) “ Licensee" or " holder of licence" includes the mana 

ger or managers nominated under rulc 114 . 
" Auditorium " means that portion of the premises 
which is usually occupied by the audience of the 

spectators during a cinematograph cxhibition . 
( 8 ) " Electrical Inspector" means an officer appointed ELS 

such by the Administrator and includes an Assistant 
Electrical Inspector under section 36 of the Indian 

Electricity Act, 1910 . 
( h ) " Executive Engineer " means the Executive Engineer, 

Public Works Department, Dadra and Nagar Haveli. 
( i ) " Licensing Authority " means the District Magistrate , 

Dadra and Nagar Haveli. 


CHAPTER I 


INTRODUCTORY — PRELIMINARY 
1. Short title and upplication . - ( 1 ) These rules shall be 
called " the Dadra and Nagar Haveli Cinematograph Rules, 
1978 . 


" Permanent Building" memis a building which is 
constructed with stone, mud , brick , mortar, cement 
or other non - inflamable materials for permanent use 
as a cincma . 


( k ) 


( 2 ) They shall, save as expressly provided otherwise , apply 
to and in relation to all cinemas in the Union Territory of 
Dadra and Nagar Haveli and shall come into force from the 
date of its publication in Government of India Gazette. 

2 . Definitions. In these rules, unless therç is anything 
repugnant in th subject or context :-- - 
( a ) " The Act" means the Cinematograph Act , 1952 

(No. 37 of 1952 ) . 
1 – 258GI/78 

( 143 ) 


" Temporary Building" means a building which is 
not a permanent building and includes a booth or 
barrack , thatched /mof, a tent or any other structure 
which may or may not be constructed with inflam 
able material, 


( 1 ) " Travelling Cinema" means & Cinematograph 

which is so constructed that it can be moved from 


144 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


. 


. 


- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 23 , 1978 (ASVINA 1 , 1900 ) [PART IN - SEC . 3 

- 

- - -- - - -- - -- . . . - - - - - - - - 
place to place for the purpose of giving Cinemato . 6 . Fee for " No Obtection Certificate " , - There shall be lovi 
graph exhibition and includes all such places as ed a fee of Rs. 50 / - in respect of an application for a No 
temporary buldings like barracks or residential or Objection Certificate in respect of a permanent cinema, it 
comercial buildings or parts thercof which casually fee of Rs. 25 / - for an application for a No Objcction Certi 
exhibit Cinematograph bul which have not obtained licate issued in respect of touring cinema . The fec shall be 
or which are not cligible for grant of a licence for paid to the Licensing Authority along with the application 
permanent exhibition of Cinematograph under rule. under rulc 3 ( 3 ) and will not be refunded whether the No 

Objection Certificate is granted or not. 
( m ) words and expressions used in the Act and not 
defined in these rules shall have the meaning assign 

Explanation . — No fee shall be charged in respect of No 
ed to them in the Act , 

Objection Certificate issued to touring cinemas in respect of 

camping sites other than the first, 
CHAPTER II 

CHAPTER III 
No OHJECTION CERTIFICATE 

BUILDING 
3 . Applicarion for " No objection certificate " -- ( 1 ) No 
person under 18 yeurs of age shall be entitled to obtain or 

7 . Building Rules. - - No cinema shall be licensed under 
held any licence under these rulcs . 

these rules unlesy the cinema conforms to the rules laid down 

in this chapter , 
( 2 ) Any person desirous of erecting a cinema or convert 
ing cxisting premises into a cinema shall lirst make public his 

Provided that rules Nos. 8 , 12 , 13 , 14 , 15, 16 , 19 ( 1 ) , 19 
intention to do so by cxhibiting a notice in Form " on a board : 

( 2 ) , 20 , 21, and 22 only shall apply in the case of touring 
on the proposed site in such La position that can be plainly 

cinemas . 
seen from the public through lite upon which the site of 
such proposed cinema abuts . The notice shall be in the 

8 . Structure 10 he fire -proof. — ( 1 ) All cinemas shall be 
language of the locality . The notice on the Board shall be 

of bricks, 
maintained on the site until the matter is decided by 

enclosed within proper external or party walls 
the 

stone or concrete ( plan , hollow or reinforced ) and the floors, 
Licensing Authority . 

tiers and roof of the auditoriumn and all parts used by the 
The board shall be at least 1 . 20 meters X090 meters in public shall be constructed of fire - resisting materials. 
size and the notice shall be exhibited thereon in bold and 
clearly legible letters. 

( 1A ) In the casc of touring cinemas the external walls of 

the auditorium shall be constructed of fire -resisting material. 
( 3 ) Such person shall also give a similar notice in writing 

Such cinemas need not have roof over the auditorium . 
to the Licensing Authority and make an application to the 
Licensing Authority for the grant of a “ No Objection Certifi 

( 2 ) Nothing in sub - rule ( 1 ) shall apply to premises in any 
cate " specifying therein whether the application is in respect 

area duly licensed for use for Cinematograph cxhibition the 
of a permanent cinema, i touring cinema. The application 
shall be accompanied by a plan of the proposed sitc drawn 

coming into force of these rules . 
to scale and shall clearly inclicate the surrounding roads and 
buildings which exists upto a distance of 183 meters in the 

Provided that the ceiling in such premises , if not made of 
case of a permanent or touring cinepla and of 1 km , of the fire resisting material shull be replaced by fire resisting 
proposed site Schools , hospitals , temples or other places etc ., 

matcrial. 
should be clearly indicated in the plan , 

9 . Construction . — ( 1 ) No cinema shall be constructed 
4 . Licensing Authority to invite objections. - On receipt of underneath or on the top of any other building . 
slich notice , the Licensing Authority shall at the cost of the 
applicant notify the public of such intention in such manner 

Provided that the Administrator may exempt the construc 
by publication in newspapers or otherwisc as he may deem tion of any cinema. from the provisions of this sub - rule , 
fit for the purpose of inviting objections. A notification for having regard to the safety , convenience and well being of 
inviting objections shall be issued by the licensing Authority the public . 
in Form " B " and shall specify the period within which 
objections shall bo lodged with the licensing Authority , 

( 2 ) No space shall be allowed under the floor of the audi 

torium except in the case of where a sound -proof cinema is 
The Licensing Anthority shall also consult the Executivo conştiucted on a cement concrete structure . 
Enginçer or the P . W . D . ficer concerned in respect of the 
proposed site. 

Provided that where the whole cincin theatre or the audi 

torium and the stage are constructed on cement 
5 . Grant of " No Ohjection Certificate " . - ( 1 ) Without pre 

concrete 

pillars , it shall be lawful to use the space underneath such 
jiidice to the right of thc Licensing Authority to refuse or theatre or the auditorium and the stage for parking of 

Tant a cinema licence under rules 100 and 101 thc Licensing vchicles . 
Authority may, grant a certificate to the applicant that there 
is no objection to the location of the cinema at the site noti 

( 3 ) The floor , roof, private boyos , balconies , galleries, 
fied by the applicant under rule 3 . 

tiers , partitions, ventilators and every room , lobby , corridor . 
( 2 ) Validity of " No Objection Certificate — ( 1 ) The " No 

staircase and peasagc devoted to the use of the public shall 
Objection Certificate shall be in Form 

be constructed of fire resisting materials . No wooden posts 

" D " and shall be 
valid , in the case of permanent cinemas for a period of two 

shall be allowed for the support of galleries and tires . 
years from the date of issue , for the purpose of commencc 
ment of the construction of the building or structure to be 

( 4 ) No soft wood or other inflammable wall linings , 
used as the cinema and in the case of touring cincmas, for 

partitions, screens or barriers shall be used in any part of the 
a period of six months from the date of its issuic for the pur 

auditorium and no cavities shall be left behind any linings . 
pose of putting up such cinema. , 

( 5 ) The fronts of private boxes and each tier shall be 
Provided that District Magistrate , may , for reasons to be 

formed of fire proof material, cxcept the capping of boxes 
recorded in writing extend , in any special case , the said period 

which may be of wood . 
of two years , or as the case may be, six months for such 
further period as thc circumstances of the case may seem 

( 6 ) Nothing in this rule shall apply to premises duly 
to it to require . 

licensed for use for Cincmatograph exhibition before the 

coming into force of these rules 
Explanation . - 1 . The Licensing Authority may , on an 
application being made to him in this behalf , dispense with 

Provided that under the auditorium and stage in such pre 
the procedure in rules 3 and 4 in respect of the camp sites mises where it exists , shall not be rented or used as godowns 
of a touring cinema other than the first camp site , if , in but may be used for storing cinema implements , such 
respect of such camp sites any touring cinema has been 

as 

advertisement boards, trollics , etc . if 
allowed to camp thereon a previous occasions . 

they are properly 
arranged and taken care of. 


145 
PART 111 - Sec . 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 23 , 1978 (ASVINA 1 , 1900 ) 
. - . - - - - - - - . - : -- - - - - - --- - . . 

— . — . 
10 . Height of tiers. - Where the first ticr or balcony extends 

( 7 ) Nuhing in sub - rules (2 ), ( 3 ), ( 5 ) and (6 ) shall apply 
over any part of the auditorium the height between the floor lo touring cinemas . 
of the auditorium and such tics or balcony shall not be at any 

14 . Gunyways, — ( 1 ) A clear passage or gurgway shall 
part less than 3 nictory the floor of the highest part of such 

be formed at the sides and down the centre of the scating 
ticr or balcony and the lowest part of the ceiling over the 

in every part of the auditorium in such manner that no ücut 
samç shall not be less than 3 . 5 metej s . The height between 

shall be three or more metres distant from a passage or 
the several ticis shall in 110 case be tess than 2 . 5 Dietres . 

gang wiwy measured in the line of scating . 
Provided that nothing in this rule shall apply to promises 

The central passage or gadgway shall be at least 1.20 metres 
duly licensed for use for Cinematograph exhibition before the 

wide and these at the sides shall be at least 0 .90 metres wklo 
coming into force of these rules . 

each : 
11 . Entrance and Exit to be on Public Thoroughlure . — 

Provided that nothing in this sub -rule shall apply to pre 
Cinemas shall have a road frontage on the public thoroughfare mises duly licensed for use for Cincmatograph exhibition 
upon which the site of such cinema abuts and in such front before the coming into force of these rules in that area . 
age there shall be suitable mcans of entrance and cxit for thie 

( 2 ) Wherc possible , gradients or inclined planes shall be 
public . 117 addition , entrances and exits shall be rescrved for 

used instead of steps but no gradient or incline planc shall 
service in case of cinergency opening on two separate and 
distinct passages leading either to the said public thorough 

be ytepper than 4 in 10 . 
fare or to other suitable thoroughlace and such passages shall 

15 . Doors. — ( 1 ) All doorways for the use of the public 
not be less than 1 . 2 metres in width . 

shall be aī lcast 1 . 35 metres wide in the clear. All doors 

must opon outwards to lie flush with the outside of the wall . 
12 . Exits . - - ( 1 ) Two separate exits not opening on the 
sume thoroughfare of public passage , shall be provided (mnl 

( 1A ) Nothing in sub -rule ( 1 ) shall apply to touring cine 
the stayo and from the auditorium floor and from cvery tier 

mas and to promises duly liceased for use for Cinematograph 
which accommodates not more than 500 individuals, and 

cxhibition before the coming into force of thcsc rules as long 
whero the auditorium floor or any tier accommodation more as the minimum spuce for exity , in accordance with the pro 
than 500 individuals exit shall be provided at the rate of Visions of rule 13 , is provided for in such premises . 
one for every 250 individuals and 0110 for any less number 
in excess . Ench of such exists shall be on not less than 1 . 5 

(2 ) All doors used by the public may be kept closed but 
metres in width between thc Icaves of the door when open . 

not bolted during it performance or exhibition , provided an 

altendunt is placed in charge of each such door whose duty it 
( 2 ) A conimon place of egress may serve as the exit for shall be to throw Open tho door in case of emergency . 
the floor of the auditorium and the first tier , provided its 

16 , Width of corridor 210 , -- No staircase , landing lobby, 
capacity be equal to the aggregate capacity prescribed by 
sub - sule ( 1 ) for tho nccessary outlets from such floor and 

corridor or passage , not being an internal passage between 

l OWS of seats , intended for usc us an exit shall be less that 
tier . 

1 . 5 mctres wide and there shall be no rcccsses or projections 
( 3 ) For any auditorium floor of any tice which does not 

in the walls of such passages , gangways or corridor witbin 
accommodate more than 300 individuals , two 1. 2 metres 

1. 5 metics of thiç ground . 
exits shall be considered sufficient. 

Provided that nothing in this rule shall apply to premises 

duly licensed for use for Cinçmatograph exhibition before 
(4 ) If any auditorium floor or any tier shall be divicleci 

the coming into force of these rules. 
into two or moro parts , exits as prescribed in sub - rule ( 1 ) 
shall be provided for each such part. 

17 . Sluircasey. - -- ( 1 ) All staircascs shall be constructed 

entirely of the bricks , stone, cencat or concrotc with fire 
( 5 ) The licensee of the cinema shall not prevent the lub 

resisting roof and ceiling and shall have , solid squarc as dis 
lic to leave by any exit doof. 

tinguished from spandrill steps and landings of approved 

stone or of such other fire resisting material and construction 
13. Seating : - ( 1 ) No part of the auditorium shall provide 

as may be approved by the Licensing Authority with treads 
accommodation exclusive of passages , at a higher scalo that 

not less than 28 centimetrcs wide and with risers of not 
20 persons per 9 square metres. 

more than 15 centimetres bigh such lapping at least 2 . 5 

centimetres over the back edge of the steps below it in 
( 2 ) All seats in the auditorium , cxcepting those contained flights of not more than 15 or less than 3 steps . 
in private boxes shall be firmly secured to the floor . Chairs 
with folding scuts shall bo provided wherever required by the ( 2 ) The treads and risers of steps on each flight shall be 
Licensing Authority . 

of uniform width and height. 
Where benches are provided , the benches shall have aims ( 3 ) The several flights of such steps shall be properly sup 
suitably fixed so that cach seat is separate . 

ported and enclosed to the satisfaction of the Licensing 

Authority . 
( 3 ) In all cases therc shall be an interval of at least 30 
centimetres between the back of one seat and front of the 

( 4 ) No staircase shall have more than two flights of 15 
seat immediately behind measured betwecn perpendiculars . steps without a turn and the width of the landing between 

such flights shall be at least the same as the width of the 
4 ) The distance between the screen and the front low 

staircase . 
of a seats should not be less than width of the scrcen itself . 
Provided that in respect of cinema thcatrcs where cinciz 

( 5 ) Tbe foors of all landings shall not be less than 15 
scope or some other similar modern technique 

centimctrcs thick . 

is installed 
for screening of films, the distance to be left betwcen the 

( 6 ) Every staircase forming an exit form an upper gallery or 
screen and the front row of seats should not be less than 3 / 4 tier of the auditoriumi shall be enclosed on both sides with 
of the affective width , that is , the actual picture width on tho walls of brick or of liro - prool materials in the 
scrcen of the films to be cxhibited . Where however , 70 mm . 

storeys 

through which it pisses , and 10 openings shall be made in 
pictures are to be screened , the distance to be left between the auditorium except the one required for exit from 
the screen and each seat in the very front row of seats, 

the 

gallery or tier which it serves , provided that staircases lead 
should not be less than 38 fect. 

ing to tlic first or lower gallery or tier may be left open on 

onc sce, in which casc thc open side shall be provided by 
( 5 ) The seats in the auditorium should be arranged in thc stout handrails and balustrades , but in no case shall stail : 
manner of an arca , the concave edge of which faces the Cascs be left open on both sides . 
Seicen . 

( 7 ) All enclosed staircase shall have on both sides strong 
(6 ) Nothing in sub - rule ( 1 ) , sub -rule ( 2 ) so far as it handrails firmly secured to thc wall by strong metal brackets 
relates to benched , sub -rule ( 3 ) and sub - rule ( 5 ) shall apply about 7 . 5 centiinctres , clear there from and about 90 centi 
to premises in any aren July licensed for use for Cinemato ) metres above the stairs but such handraily shall not run on 
graph exhibition before the coming into force of these rules Icvel platforms and landing where the same is more in length 
in that area , 

than the width of the stairy , 


146 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 23 , 1978 ( ASVINA 1 , 1900 ) [PART 1II — Sec. 3 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - - 


- - - - 


( 8 ) Where the flight of steps returns upon itself the newe! 
wall shall be chascd so as to allow the handrails to tur ] 
without projecting over the landing . 

(9 ) Stairs turning ut an angle shall have a proper landing 
without winders being introduced at the turn . 

( 10 ) There shall be no recesses or projection in the wall 
of such staircases within 1. 5 metres of the floor and any 
fittings for lighting shall be at least 2 .03 metres above the 
stops or landing . 

( 11 ) Nothing in this rulc shall apply to premises in any 
area duly licensed for use for Cinematograph exbibition be . 
fore the coming into force of these rules in that area . 

18 . Venillation . - ( 1 ) The area of the window , door and 
ventilator openings shall not be less than one - fifth of the 
total floor area and the windows and ventilators shall be of 
such dimensions, in such number and in such situation as 
the Public Work Department officer of Executive Engineer 
concerned shall specify , 

( 2 ) Mechanical appliances such as exhaust fans shall be 
used to expel air at the rate of 14 . 15 cubic metres or more 
per person , at least three times in an hour . Provided that 
the Licensing Authority in consultation with the Public 
Works Department Officer und the Health Department Officer 
concerned may relax the condition laid down in this rule 
regarding he total door and window arca , in the case of the 
cinemas where exhaust fans have been provided . 

19 . Sanitary convenience . — ( 1 ) Every Cincma shall be pro 
vided with suflicient and separate water closet or privy 
accommodation as also urinal accommodation for the use of 
males and femalca . 

( 2 ) Where the auditorium consists of more than one floor , 
latrincs and urinals at the above scales shall be provided for 
each lloor , provided that minimum of onc latrine and one 
urinal shall be provided on each floor, 

( 3 ) Sub -rule ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) shall be applicable to touring 
cinemay subject to the condition that the construction of 
urinals and latrines shall be of temporary nature and shall 
be such as may be approved by the Public Works Depart 
mcnt Officer and the Health Department Olicer concerncd , 


( 5 ). Openings not exceeding three in number shall be per 
mitted , in the front of the enclosure , the centre one of whichi 
must not exceed 20 centimetrcs square and these in each 
side 15 centemetres squarc . Provided that where two 
machines are jointly used , openings not exceeding five in 
number shall be permitted , viz , two for the projectory, two 
for the operators and one for fixed slides . The projector 
openings must not exceed eight inches square and the other 
six inches Square . Each openings shall be fitted with a 
screen of fire resisting meterial capable of being actuated 
both from the inside and from the outside of the enclosure . 

(6 ) The necessary pipes and cables shall enter efficiently 
bushel openings. 

21. Rewinding room .- - A separate room of fire -proof con 
struction shall be provided for film rewinding and the room 
shall not be used for any other purposc except for storing the 
filme not in use . It shall not, however , be necessary to have 
a separate room for rewinding films with acetate basc . 

22 . Width ol Cinema Screen , -- The minimum width of the 
cinema screen shall be 3 ,05 metres . 

23 . Sky lights. - All sky lights which may be liable to be 
broken shall be protected by stout galvanised iron wire 
guards securely fixed on the outside of such sky lights . 

24 . Lighting Conductors . — Lighting conductors shall be 
provided in each cinema building , 


CHAPTER IV 


ELECTRIC INSTALLATION 


25 . Sanction of the Chief Engineer Electrical Inspector 
concerned to be obtained for all electrical work . — Before the 
installation of electric light or any electrical apparatus and 
beforç any alterations or additions to the electric installation 
are commenced , the sanction of the Electrical Inspector shall 
be obtained through the Licensing Authority and for this 
purpose plans showing tho approximate position of lights , 
fans , etc . and specifications giving full particulars of the 
proposed work shell be forwarded to the Electrical Inspector 
to when complete drawing shall also be sent on completion 
of the work . 

After completion the work shall be passed by the Electrical 
Inspector or an Assistant Electrical Inspector . 


20 . Enclosure for the Projector. - ( 1 ) Subject to Sub -rulo 
( 3 ) of the rules for inc use of the cinematograph machine, 
there shall be provided in each permanent and quasi- perma 
nent cinema and independent permanent enclosure of sufi 
cicnt dimensions to allow thc operator to work freely . The 
enclosure shall be substantially constructed of fire resisting 
material or be lined with such materials . 


( 2 ) The entrance to the enclosure shall be fitted with a 
closely - fitting door of fire resisting material suitably plac 
and opening outwards , and all openings , bushes and joints 
shall be so constructed and maintained as to prevent, so far 
as possible , the escape of any smoke into the auditorium . 
If means of ventilation are provided they shall not be allow 
ed to communicate direct with the auditorium , 


26 . High Pressure. — In these rules the term “ High Pres 
sure " shall apply to all voltages above 650 volts . 

27 . Inspection and test . - - Where an electric light, fan or 
other apparatus is installed in a cinema, it shall be on 
condition that the Electrical inspector or bis Assistant shall 
certify in writing to the Licenşing Authority once in every 
twelve months that the system is in proper working order , 
Inspection and tests may also be made by any officer appoint 
ed by the Electrical Inspector from time to time, 


28. Main Circuits. - All Cinemas when lighted by electric 
lights shall bave preferably three saparate and distinct mair 
circuits and those circuits shall be : 


( 3 ) If a permanicnl enclosure is not available , the cinema 
togruph machine shall be contained in an enclosure formed 
of a smoke- proof cabin constructed of sheet iron on sub 
stantial fram work and fastened together securely . The 
cubin shall be of sufficient dimensions to allow the Operator 
to work freely and the floor shall, if boarded , be covered 
with asbestos or other fire - resisting material of sufficient 
thickness approved by the Licensing Authority 


( A ) for the stage ; 

(Band ( C ) for the auditorium , corridors , exits and other 
parts of the house open to the public . 


The circuits ( B ) and ( C ) shall be so arranged that the 
lights in the Auditorium , corridors , Exits , etc . shall be as fai 
as possible equally distributed on the two circuits. 

The two circuits ( E ) and ( c ) shall not be combined ir . 
onc fitting nor shall the wires or lcads for one circuits be 
placed in the same casing or pipe as those of the other cir 
cuits , 


( 4 ) The enclosure shalj be placed outside the cinema 
building , and where such cinema consists of a temporary or 
quasi- pel inanent structure the cnclosure shall be at distance 
of at least 90 centimetres from such structure , Where the 
Licensing Authority is satisfied that any enclosures is fre 
proof and separated from the Auditorium by a fire -proof wall 
or is of opinion that it is impracticable or in the circums 
tances unnecessary for securing safety that the encloguro 
should be outside the building or at a distance from the gtruc 
ture , as the case may be , he may by express words in the 
licence dispense with such requirements , provided that a space 
of 61 centimetres in width at the sides and in the front of 
the enclosure and a space of 1 . 8 metres at the back in which 
the door is situated , shall be kept clear all round the en : 
closurc . 


29. Sub - circuits . - - ( 1 ) The main circuits A , B , C shall be 
sub -divided as may be necessary and no sub - circuits shall be 
allowed to carry twore than Samps , in the case of Auditoriui 
corridors , etc . or 20 Amps . on 230 volts in the case of the 
stage. Each sub - circuit shall start from a distributing board 


( 2 ) The main leads , etc ., for Circuit " A " shall , wher 
possible be kept cntirely on the stage side of the prosceniun 


PART III SEC . 3 ] THE GAZETIE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 23 , 1978 (ASVINA 1, 1900 ) 


147 


- - - - - 


wall and those for " B " and " C " entirely on the auditorium 
side of that wall . 

( 3 ) The lights inside and outside the premises shall be 
separate circuits , Circuits for fans , power and cooling pur 
puses shall be kept distinct and separate from lighting cir 
cuits . 


40 . Insulation . - ( 1 ) All conductors shall be properly in 
sulated and tho insulation resistances shall not be less than 
372 Magohns per Kilomctrc at 15 . 55°C , after one minute s 
electrilication when tested at 400 volts and after 48 hours 
immersion in water . 


( 2 ) If it is desired to usc any other conductor or insula 
tien than as specified in thesc Regulations, special permission 
shall be obtained from the Chief Engineer ( Electrical ) or 
the Electrical Inspector concerned , and no material shall be 
usel which is not water -proof or which is not protected by 
water - proof covering or which will soften at a temperature 
below 76 .67°C . 


30 . Control of Auditorium lights from stage. — If it is 
desired to control a portion of the lights in the Auditorium 
from thợ stage switch board ( Circuit A ) this will be per 
mitted if à sufficient number of lights for safety purposes be 
maintained on circuits B and C for cach portion of the Audi 
torium entirely independent of the stage . The number and 
position of such lights shall be subject to the approval of 
ihc Electrical Inspector , 

31. Control Ol Auditorium lights from Enclosure. - ( 1 ) 
In the case of cinemas it may be permitted 10 control a port 
tion of the lights in the Auditorium by switches placed in the 
enclosure , provided these switches are of totally closed ncial 
clad type and associated with fuses of not more than 15 
amps . capacity at a pressure 110t exceeding 230 volts . The 
number and position of such switches shall be subject to the 
approval of the Electrical Inspector or his Assistant. 

( 2 ) Where fluorescent lights have been provided , a Thyra 
lux or equivalent Thyratron shall be uscd for the purpose 
of dimming these fluorescent lights . 

32 . A . C . 3 phase or 1 ) . C . 3 phase wire system . Where 
supply is available on 3 phase A . C . system , the circuits A , 
B and C shall be supplied from three dillerent phases , but 
where the supply is given on D . C . 3 wire system , the cir 
cuits B and C shall be supplied from two different sides and 
all lights , fans and other electrical apparatus on the stage 
shall bo connected to one side only in common with either 
B or C . 


33 . Sources of supply . - ( a ) Supply from thc Three main 
circuit may be taken from independent SouTCCS vſ supply , 
but in such cruises special precaution must be taken to prevent 
uccidental connection of different circuits . 


41. Conductors etc . special precautions. — No metal work 
in connection with the circuits shall be exposed or so fixed or 
constructed as to be liable to cause short circuit . In all 
cases conductors conveying currents at high pressure inside 
buildings shall be specialiy insulated . They shall be cocloscd 
in screw joined and carthed iron or steel tubing. Armoured 
cablo may be used for the Supply Company s service . 

42 . Joints :- Joints in conductors shall be avoided as far 
as possible but when unavoidable they shall be electrically 
and mechanically perfect . Soldering fluids shall not be used . 
in making such joints and no joints shall be made in metal 
conduit. 

43 . Conduc ors firing and Protection . — ( 1 ) All conduc 
tors including lead covered cables where accessible to the 
public shall be efficiently protected from inechanical in 
jury by an external armour of iron or steel. 

( 2 ) Where conductory pass through or within walls , firo 
proof floors or ceiling they shall be protected by iron pines 
or by gazed setonewarc OL porcelain tubes and precautions 
shall be taken lo prevent the possiblity or fire or water pass 
ing along the course of the conductors . 

( 3 ) Conductors must not be placed liable to be heated by 
jels , steam pipes or other appliances, 

( 4 ) In special cases , or where necessary for protection from 
thọ depredations or ruts , mice or other vermin , the wiring 
shall be enclosed in beavy gauge steel conduict . 

44 . Petrol Engines. — No petrol driven engine shall be 
allowed for generating clectric current unless it is fixed in a 
fire - proof compartment at least 3 .05 metres from any other 
building, 

45 . Wiring in casing. If casing be used , if shall be of 
hard teak wood . Each conductor shall be laid in a separate 
groove , unless previous permission be obtained from the 
Chicſ Engineer Electrical or the Electrical Inspector concern 
ed to vary this condition . In no circumstances shall wires of 
unlike polarity be laid in the same groove , nor wires of the 
saine polarity belonging to the different circuits , A , B , or C . 
The cover shall be secured with screws. Casing shall not be 
used where it is liable to injury from weather or leakage of 
water, nor shall it be recessed into plaster . 

46 . Metallic tubing for Mechanical Protection . - - Where 
iron pipe or tube is used as a mechanical protection , it shall 
be bushed where necessary and properly bushed inspection 
boxcs shall be used . All metallic tubing shall be efficicntly 
earthed and shall be provided screw joints or other means of 
ensuring a good and permanent electrical connection which 
must be continuous with boxes and other fittings. 


( b ) Changc -over switches may be used which have been 
previously approved by the Electrical Inspector . 

34 . Auxillary supply for Exit Signs . — ( 1 ) All Exit signs 
shall be fitted with an auxillary bulb capablc of properly 
illuminating the sign and those bulbs shall be fed froni Accu 
multors which shall be in a fudly chargcal condition before 
the first admission of the public on any day , 


( 2 ) All lights in the stairęcaşcs , corridors, passages and 
Exit notices shall be kept a light during the whole time the 
public are in the Cincina . 

35 . Torches. — At Icust six clectric torches of approved 
pattern shall be kept on thc predises in working order 
throughout the year and these shall be distributed over the 
building 90 S to be accessible to door keepers , ctc . 

36 . Unlicensed premises, No unlicensed premises or 
parts of premises not included in the licence shall be supplica 
with electric current from the mains or apparatus lived for 
the licensed premises . 

37. Gas and Water Pipes. - - Gas and water pipes shall 
never form part of any clcctrical circuit . 


38 . Dressing Room15. - When cinema premises are used for 
& dramatic performance dressing rooms and other parts of 
the premisc3 used by the staff shall be lighted to the satis 
faction of the Electrical Inspector of his Assistant. 


47. Stage lighting . When cinema premises are used for 
a dramatic performance special care shall be taken that all 
works in connection with the lighting of the stage de carried 
out in as substantial a manger as possible preferably in heavy 
gauge screwed metal conduit. 


39 . Conductors , — ( 1 ) All conductors used within the 
building shall be of tinncd copper having a conductivity equal 
to not less than 90 per cent of that of pure copper , ant shall 
be so proportioned that the current density in any conductor 
shall not exceed 155 -ums. per square centimetre . 


( 2 ) Whcre a number of lights , as in the footlights , bittens , 
etc ., are supplied linder control of the switch and protected 
by a single or double pole cut-out as the case may be, the 
conductors shall be maintained throughoul of such sections 
that will be cffcctually protected by the cut- outs against 
beating. 


48 . Stage Switch Board . — ( 1 ) When cinema premises are 
used for a dramatic performances a switch board fitted with 
the necessary switches , cut-outs and other fittings for the 
control and rcguation of the stage lighting shall be fixed in . 
some convenient position overlooking the stage. 

( 2 ) Connections shall be muc where possible at the back 
of the board and there shall be a space of not less than 90 
centimctre betwęcn the wall and the back of the board or 
such larger space as may be necessary to ensure the thimbles 
and connections being at all times easily accessible , or as an 


148 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 23 , 1978 ( ASVINA 1, 1900 ) [PART III — SEC. 3 


UL 


( 3 ) All switches and cut-outs shall be so marked as to 
show clearly which circuit or lamp they control. 

( 4 ) All switches , cut- outs, ceiling roses , wall sockets lamp 
holders , etc , shall have non - inflammable bases and covers . 
All switches and cut -out shall have sufficient length and 
breadth and shall be constructed so as to prevent the risk 
of formation of an arc . 

( 5 ) All switches shall be of ample size to carry the cur 
rent for which they are intended without heating and shall 
be so constructed that they not remain in any position inter 
mediate between the " on " and the “ off ” position so as to 
permit of an arc or short circuit . 


alternative in the case of wires not large than 01 square centi 
metre provision may be made by hinging the board for ren 
dering the back of the board accessible . 

49 . Footiights, etc . .. When cinema premises are used for 
a drainatic performance lamps on battern , footlights , etc ., 
shall be properly protected from everything liable to cause 
a short circuit and shall be protected by stuff guards so 
arranged that no scenery or other inflammable material can 
come in contract with the lamps . 

50 . Enclosure . ( 1 ) Within the enclosure no readily com 
bustible material shall be used in connection with the any 
lamp in such a manner that it may come in contact with 
the lamps or conductors . The insulating material of an elec 
tric cable including unprotected leads to lamps in the en 
closure shall be covered with fire- resisting material. 

(2 ) There shall be no coils of slack electric cable within 
the enclosure . The leads to the cinematograph lamp shall , 
unless conveyed within a metal pipe or other suitable casing, 
be kept well apart both within and without the enclosure so 
that the course of each may be readily traced . All live parts 
in the enclosure shall at all times be totally covered by in 
sulating and fire proof material. 

51. Permissible current and pressure in Enclosure . - ( 1 ) No 
electric current at a higher pressure than 230 volts shall be 
supplied within the enclosure , and all wiring inside the en 
closure shall be in heavy guage screwed conduit. 

( 2 ) The cables for the cinematograph machine shall be 
taken as a separate circuit from the source of supply and 
there shall be an effecient linked iron - clad switch and fuse 
inserted at the point where the supply is taken and in addition 
an efficient iron - clad double pole switch shall be fitted in the 
cinematograph lamps circuit inside the enclosure . 

52 . Resistance . ( 1 ) Resistance flames shall be made en 
tirely of fire resisting material land shall be so constructed and 
maintained that no outside part shall at any time become 
unduly heated . The resistances shall not be permitted to be 
come so over -heated that a piece of dry newspaper placed 
in contact with any part would readily burn . 

( 2 ) All resistances with the exception of the resistance for 
regulating purposes shall be placed outside the enclosure and 
preferably outside the auditorium they shall be adequately 
protected by wire guards or other efficient means of pre 
venting accidental contact. 

53. Plug Sockets for the Stage .- - The plug sockets for the 
stage shall be of bakelite or similar fire - proof material and 
of specially substantial construction . 


57 . Fitting . ( 1 ) All fittings shall be suspended in an 
approved manner and special care taken to avoid risk of the 
suspension failing from any cause . 

(2 ) Combined gas and electric fittings shall not be used . 

( 3 ) Any electric light pendants or brackets in the Audi 
torium and front of the house generally shall be at least 2 . 5 
metres above the floor to the lowest projecting part of t 
fittings . No electrical fitting or apparatus of any description 
shall be so fixed or arranged as to interfere at any time with 
the proper working of the safety curtain . 

58 . Switch and Fuse Boards. - ( 1 ) All switch and fuse 
boards which are not fitted with the front connections shall 
bə yo mounted as to give instant and easy access to the con 
nection at the back of the board and shall be provided with 
dividing strips between poles both at the back and in front 
and proper lock - up cases with glass or metal fronts . The 
glass ( unless of adequate thickness ) shall be protected with 
a wire guards or alternatively boxes with lids and sides ren 
dered fire - proof by asbestos sheeting may be used . 

( 2 ) Switch and fuse boards shall be fixed in accessible 
places where they will not obstruct any passage or exit . 

59 . Generating plant. Where the supply of current is 
derived from special plant on the premises , such plant must 
in all cases be approved by the Electrical Inspector. 

60 . Boilers, Gas Engines, etc . - ( 1 ) Boilers steam engines, 
gas engines and dynamos when used for the supply of electri 
city to such premises shall be placed in such position as shall 
be sanctioned by the Electrical Inspector to Government. All 
necessary provisions shall be made for keeping the tempera 
ture of the engine rooms within proper limit . 

( 2 ) Oil gas engines shall be placed in buildings ade 
quately and continuously ventilated so that no explosive mix 
ture of gas can accumulate . 

61. Accumulators .-- Accumulators shall be placed in 
rooms adequately ventilated to outside air . These rooms 
shall be of fire - proof construction with fire- resisting doors 
and shall be used for no other purpose . 

62 . Transforming and Converting Machinery .- ( 1 ) Trans 
forming and converting machinery with the controlling 
switches and cut-outs shall be placed in a fire -proof and 
water -proof structure , adequately ventilated to the outside air , 
properly lighted and accessible to the management and shall 
be used for no other purpose. 

( 2 ) No transformer which under normal conditions of 
load heats to above 130 F shall be used and the transformer 
circuits shall be so aranged that in no circumstances may a 
contact between the primary and secondary coils be estab 
lished , 


54 . Leads to Buttens, etc . The leads to battens and 
moveable lengths the shall be specially guarded particularly at 
the points a where they join on to the battens , etc . and a 
sufficient length shall be allowed to prevent the leads receiv 
ing any injury through any movement of the battens. This 
part of the leads shall be protected by stout canvas hose pro 
perly fixed and the battens shall be suspended by at least three 
ropes . 


55. Arc Lamps . - ( 1 ) In any Cinema are lamps shall 
not be used in the Auditorium or in any part open to the 
public without permission from the Electrical Inspector . 
When they are used in any part of such premises special pre 
cautions shall be taken to guard against danger from fallin 
glass and incandescent particles of carbon . All parts of the 
lamps, lanterns and fittings which are liable to be handled 
( except by the persons employed to handled them ) shall be 
insulated from the frame work . 

( 2 ) Any exposed portion of metal work of an arc lamp 
liable to become heated to a temperature sufficient to cause 
a conflagrati ? by contact with scenery or other infiammable 
material shall b ? protected by a wire guard . 

In no cas . 56 ?! arc lamps be suspended by the conductors. 

56 . Cut-Outs. ( 1 ) All circuits shall be efficiently pro 
tected by cut outs placed in positions easily accessible to the 
staff , but inaccessible to the public . All cut-outs shall be of 

such pattern and be fixed in such a position as to admit of 
· quick replacement . 

( 2 ) All cut-outs shall be so constructed that falling fused 
metal cannot cause a short circuit or an ignition . 


63 . High Voltage . Where the primary cuttent is of high 
voltage no part of such apparatus or the control therefore 
shall be accessible to any body except the person in charge of 
its maintenance . 


64 . Earthing of Covers - The metallic covers of all trans 
formers, switches and other electrical apparatus shall be 
efficiently connected to earth . 

65 . Insulation Resistance .-- - The insulation resistance of a 
system of distribution shall be such that the greatest leakage 
from any conductor to earth , when all branches are switched 
on , shall not exceed 1 / 5000th part of total current required , 
the test being made at approximately double the usual work 
ing pressure , provided that this rule shall not be held to 
justify a lower - insulation resistance than 10 , 000 ohms. 


PART III - SEC . 3 ] THE GAZET I E OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 23 , 1978 (ASVINA 1 , 1900 ) 


149 


- 


. 


- 


- 


- 


- 


L 


AN 


Works Department Officer concerned two cisterns which shall 
be kept always filled with water . Each of the cisterns shall 
be capable of containing at least 11 .35 litres of water for 
every 100 individuals of the public to be accommodated in 
the Cinema. These cisterns shall be fitted with an outside 
indicator suitable placed x so as to show clearly the depth 
of water therein , and the water must be kept clean and free 
from sediment and covered over with properly fitting covers 
so as to be mosquito proof and the cisterns shall be cleaned 
once every year . 


66 . Motors , etc. -- All motors and electrical apparatus 
shall, if permitted , be subject to special conditions, but 
electric fans and similar motors not taking more than 300 
watts may be used , if separately wired , from fuses on a pro 
per distributing board . 

67 . Plan of wiring : - A framed diagram indicating clearlv 
the arrangement of all circuits and sub - circuits of the electri 
cal installation , the position of distribution boards and the 
size of cables shall be displayed in the premises ana 
be kept upto date . 

68 . Temporary lighting. - - ( 1 ) In all cases in which it is 
desired to install temporary lighting seven days notice shall 
be given to the Electrical Inspector in writing before it is 
desired to commence the work . 

( 2 ) Wires and cables shall be adequately and firmly fixed 
and shall be similar to the wires already specified in these 
regulations and in all cases where the wires are within reach 
of the public they shall be efficiently protected from mechani 
cal injury by an armour of iron or steel. 

( 3 ) All joints shall be soldered and taped if used for 
more than one week and if used less than a week , the wire 
shall be soldered if larger than (6 square millimetres ) or its 
equivalent. In either case the joints in portable fitting an ! 
special appliances shall be taped . 

( 4 ) All temporary work shall be immediately removed 
when no longer required for the purpose for which it was 
installed . In the case of temporary work on the stage , all 
connections to the permanent installation shall be removed 
immediately after the performance in which they are used , 
unless permission be obtained to the countrary . Such special 
conditions as may be requisite in each case will be attached 
to the consent of the Electrical Inspector to the use of tem 
porary electric work . 

69 . Safety Curtain .- - Whenever in cinema premises which 
are used for a dramatic performance the safety curtain is 
lowered all lights in Auditorium etc . shall be immediately 
lighted . 

70 . Relaxation by Electrical Inspector. The electrical 
installation in cinemas shall be carried out to the satisfaction 
of the Electrical Inspector who may , in vitin 1909 . 
to the Licensing Authority that any of the " (HR . ( . .. 
regulations may be relaxed to such extent and subject t 
such conditions as he may consider expedient. 


Provided that nothing in this rule shall apply to tousins 
cinemas and to premises in any area duly licensed for use for 
Cinematograph exhibition before the coming into force of 
these rules in that area if such premises are situated in places 
where there is sufficient water supply which can be used for 
the purpose of extinguishing fire. 

75 . Fire -buckets . - - ( 1 ) Fire buckets of approved design 
with a conical base shall be provided in such number as the 
Licensing Authority may direct , and shall be kept at all times 
full of water which shall be changed regularly twice every 
week . A pinch of lime shall be added to such water to 
prevent the breeding of mosquitos. Buckets of dust or dry 
sand shall also be provided in such numbers as the Licensing 
Authority may direct and the attention of the Public shall 
be drawn to the water and sand buckets of placards legibly 
painted and fixed immediately above them . 

Provided that in respect of premises in any area duly licens 
ed for use for cinematograph exhibition before the coming into 
force of these rules in that area and in respect of touring 
cinemas , the existing fire buckets with round bottom may be 
used but shall be replaced by fire buckets with a conical base 
whenever they are next replaced . 

( 2 ) At least one bucket filled with dry sand must be kept 
in some accessible position on the stage in readiness for use 
in dealing with an electric fire . 

76 . Chernical Extinguishers ( 1 ) Chemical extinguishers 
of an approved type and of at least 13 . 5 litres capacity shall 
be provided in such numbers as the Licensing Authority wav 
from time to time direct and shall be placed on brackets 
four feet from the ground , Directions for using them should 
in all cases be prominently painted on the extinguisher or on 
a card placed over the extinguisher and the attention of the 
public shall be directed to them by placards legibly printed 
or painted and fixed immediately above them . 


71. Shock Treatment Instructions and Insulated Gloves. - - 
Instructions both in English and in the local languages of the 
district for the restoration of persons suffering from electric 
shock shall be affixed in a conspicuous place and at least one 
pair of India rubber gloves in good order shall be provided 
for use of the electricians . 


Provided that nothing in this rule shall apply to be tour 
ing cinemas and to premises in any area duly licensed for use 
for cinematograph exhibition before the coming into force 
of these rules in that area . 


( 2 ) Chemical extinguishers shall be renewed or well clean 
ed and recharged every 12 months , a record of which should 
he kept for inspection . 


a and he maraes 


72 . Miscellaneous. -- All main switches , fuses etc . , which 
are the property of the Electric Supply Co ., must be distin 
guished by red colour and every apparatus which is to be 
operated by authorised persons only must be made completely 
inaccessible to the public . 


77 . Fire extinguishers etc ., for the Enclosure . - - Two pres 
cure - type fire extinguisher , two buckets of water , one bucket 
of sand and a blanket shall always he kept inside the en 
closure . A large sponge shall be kept in one of the buckets 
of water and one fire extinguisher shall also be kept immedia 
tely outside the enclosure . 


73. Operators . The electrical plant and projecting ap 
paratus shall be in the hands of qualified persons who shall 
be nominated in writing for this purpose by licensee of the 
cinema and such nomination shall be subject to the approval 
of the Electrical Inspector ( or the Assistant Electrical Ins 
pector concerned ) . Provided that persons holding a diploma 
in cinema- projection course , awarded by the State Council 
of Technical Education of Bombav State (before 1st March , 
1963 and after that date by the State Council of Technical 
Education of Guajarat State ) shall be deemed as qualified 
persons for the purpose of this rule . The electrical installa 
tion shall be incharge of a properly qualified person class - II 
Wireman and his name and qualifications shall be notified 
to the Electrical Inspector or the Assistant Flectrical Inspec 
tor concerned for approval . 


78 . Exit Signs. - ( 1 ) All exits and other doors or open 
inos intended to be used for the purpose of exits shalt he 
indicated hy notices in the language understood in the loca 
lity in white letters 17. 5 centimetres long , iipon a black ground 
printed on or above the doors at least @ 2 .05 metres above 
the floor. 


663 and after that dat State ) shall be deemrectrical 
installa 


( 2 ) The words " No Exit " in the language understood in 
the localitv ha l im mm larly nainted upon all doors in sight 
of the audience which do not lead to exits . 

( 3 ) All electric “ Exit " signs shall be fitted with an auxi 
liary bulb capable of properly illuminating the sign , the 
bulbs shall be fed from dry batteries , or accumulators which 
shall be kept in proper working order , the switch 
auxiliary hulbs should be fixed in an easily accessible position 
in the corridor and not inside the auditorium . 


CHAPTER V 
PRECAUTIONS AGAINST FIRE 


74 . Tanks.- In every permanentor quasi-permanent 
Cinema there shall be provided on the top of the prescenium 
wall or in some other place to be approved by the Public 


( 4 ) Nothing in this rule shall applv to touring cinema 
and to premises in any area duly licensed for use for Cinema 
tograph exhibition before the coming into force of these 


= an 


150 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 23 , 1978 ( ASVINA 1, 1900 ) [PART III — SEC , 3 

- - - .. - . - ...- .... . .. . - = - - - - - - - - - . . 

- - 
rules , in that arca so long as " Exit" and " No Exit " signs in 87 . Application for permission . — Any person desiring to 
such premises are clcarly visible and easily legible . 

put up a building of structure to be used as a Cinema shall 

make an application in writing to thc Licensing Authority 
79 . Curtains - All curtains covering doors, passages , etc ., each such application shall be accompanied by a truc copy 
shall be hung so as not to trail on the floor. 

of the " No Obicction Certificate " issued by the Licensing 

Authority in respect of the site where the Cinema is proposed 
80 . Special rules for the Euclosure ctc : - ( 1 ) No unneccs 

to be put up . 
sary combustible material shall be allowed within the enclo 
sure and as far as possible all necessary combustible material, 88 . Application to be accompanied by plans. - - The appli 
film , etc ., when not in use , shall be kept in fire proof recep cation shall be accompanied by complete plans, elevations and 
tacles suitable for the purpose . 

sections of the proposed Cinema and of all elections or 

buildings in connection therewith drawn correctly to scale 
( 2 ) No smoking shall at any time be permitted within the 

of 1 cm . to ninetrę and by a block plan on a separate shcet 
enclosure and a placard shall be prominently exhibited both 

showing the position of the proposcd cincma in lclation to 
inside and outside the enclosure the effect that smoking is 

any adjacent premises & to the public thoroughfare upon 
prohibited . 

which the site of such proposed cinema abuts drawn to a 

scale of not less than 2 milimetre to a metre . The cardinal 
(3 ) The enclosure and the engine room if any shall be 

points shall be marked on such plans. All drawings shall be 
inaccessible to the public . 

coloured to distinguish the material to be employed in the 
( 4 ) No smoking shall be allowed in the rewinding room construction of buildings and crcctions . The width of all 
and films which are not in use must be stored in metal con 

staircases and the No . of steps in cuch the width of corridors , 
tainers and no combustible matter shall be kept inside the 

gangways & doorways together with heights of any galleries 
rewinding room . 

or tries in the proposed Cinema and in any of the erections 

or buildings in connection therewith us are more than onc tier 
81. Cinematograph Machine - The Cinematogruph ma in height shall be indicated on such drawings , as well as the 
chint shall be placed on firm supports of firc - resisting construc floor and roof, ventilation and the details of any electric 
tion and it shall be provided with metal shutter between the installation . The thickness of the walls , and scantlings of 
film gate and the source of light. The shutter shall automati the various materials used shall be clearly shown on such 
cally drop in the event of any accident to the Cinematograph drawing by figured dimensions. 
muchine, or stoppage of the film and shall automatically risc 
when the film is in motion for the purpose of projection . 

Thc plans shall show the respective numbers of audience 

or spectators intended to be accommodated in the various 
( 2 ) The film gatc shall be of massivc construction and 

parts of the proposed Cinema and the space to be assigned 
provided with ample hent radiating surface and the passage to cach individual thereof and shall be accompanied by a 
for the film shall be sufficiently narrow to prevent flame 

specification of the works to be cxccuted sufficiently describ 
travelling upwards or downwards from the light opening . 

ing the material to be employed and the mode of construction 
82 Film , Bores, Spool etc . — ( 1 ) All cinematograph pro 

to be adopted . All openings for ventilation shall be shown 
jectors shall be fitted with two film boxes of non - inflammable 

in the plans and described in the specification . The plan 

shall be prepared by an authorised architect Or a qualified 
material and of substantial construction to and from which 

ongineer and shall bear a certificate undes his signature to 
the films shall be made to travel. Such boxes which must 
be of approved size and construction , shall be made to close in 

thc cffcct that the design are sound and stable . 
such manner as to prevent the ingress of fire and shall be 

89. Plans to be approved by Public Works Department. — 
fitted with a film slot so constructed as to prevent the passage 

On rcccipt of the application and the plans the Licensing 
of flame to the interior of the film box . 

Authority shall forward the same to the Executive Engineer 
( 2 ) Spools shall be cither chain or gear driven and films 

or other Public Works Department Officer concerned for ap 
shall be wound upon spools so that the wound film shall not 

proval and the applicant shall be bound to carry out such 

reasonable additions and alterations in the plans 
at any time reach or project beyond the edges of the flanges 

as may 

be directed by the Executive Enginccr or Public Works De 
of the spools . 

partment Officer concerned before the plans are finally ap 
( 3 ) It shall not be necesgary to have metal casing for proved by him . 
spools in case of projectors using films with acetate base . 

90 . Permission to build . — After the plans are finally 
83 . Clocks roon ( 1 ) Where clock rooms are provided approved by the Executive Engineer or Public Works Depart 
they shall bc situated that the use of them shall not obstruct ment Officer concerned the Licensing Authority may grant 
the frec usc of any cxit. 

permission in writing to the applicant to put up the Cinema 

in accordance with the plans finally approved , provided the 
( 2 ) No corridor shall be used as a clock room and no 

permission granted under these rules will not dispense with 
pegs for hanging hats , clocks, etc . shall be allowed therein 

the necessity of obtaining the requisite sanction under the 
nor shall any corridor he used for storage purpose or for 

municipal Acts or any other law for the time being in force . 
any purpose whatever except for exit and entrance from and 
to the auditorium , 

91. Permission to be valid for two years . — The applicant 

shall complete the construction of the cinema within a period 
84 . Telephone. In places where there is a public tolc 

of two years from the date of the permission or within such 
phone the Cinema building shall be connected hy telephone 

extended period as may be followed by thc Licensing Autho 
with the nearest Fire Brigade Station in that place . 


rity . 


85 . Lighting , - ( 1 ) All lighting shall be provided by electri 
city . No has, acetylenc, oil or other lamps shall be used for 
lighting the Cinçma or any part thercof. 


92 . Modification in the plans, — No modifications in the 
plans shall be mudc while in the course of construction un 
less such modifications are approved by the Licensing Autho 
rity in consultation with the Public Works Department Offi 
cer concerned . 


( 2 ) Every portion of the Cinema devoted to the use of 
or accommodation of the public and also all outlets leading 
outside the cinema including the corridors shall be well and 
properly lighted during every performance and the same shall 
be lighted until the entire public have left the cinema after 
the performance is over . 


93 . Additions and alterations. — No additions or alteri 
tions shall be made to a Cinema except with the written 
permission of the Licensing Authority . 

94 . Notice of additions and alterations. A notice in 
writing of any intended structural addition to or alteration of 
any cinema shall be given to the Licensing Authority accom 
panied by complete plans , clcvations and section block Dlar 
and specification of new works proposed to be executed in the 
manner laid down by Tule 91 and the notice shall describe 
clearly such intended additions or alterations . 


CHAPTER VI 


PERMISSION FOR AULDING A CINEMA 


86 . Permission for huilding - No person shall put un any 
building or structure or convert existing premises for being 
used as a cinema except with the previous permission in writ 
ing of the Licensing Authority . 


95 . Inspection of Construction - The Executive Engineer 
or any Public Works Department officer authorised by him 


PART III — ŞEC . 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 23 , 1978 (ASVINA 1, 1900 ) 


151 


may at any une inspect a cincnia thcatre which is under 
construction with a vicw to satisfyiny himself that the con 
struction is according to the approved plans and specifications, 

Lf any deviations are found ihe Public Works Department 
ollicer shall report the same to the Licensing Authority and 
also inform the owner . 

96 . Puwur to refuse License . — The Licensing Authority 
may refuse to grant a license to operate al cinema , the build 

of which has not been constructed according to approved 
plans and specification . 


97 . Chapter nut applicable to touring cine n105, — Thc pro 
visions of this chapter shall not apply to touring cinemas . 


CHAPTER VII 


CINEMA LICENCE 


98 . Cinental licence - No places shall be opened or 
allowed to remain open for lise as cinema unless the person 
being the owner , tenaril Or Occupicr thcrcof shall have ob 
lained a Cinema Licence therelor. 

99. Application for Cinema Licence , — The application for 
2 Çinema licence shall be made to the licensing authority 
and shall contain a statcmncnt as to the nature and extent of 
the interest of the applicant in the Cinema and shall also 
indicate the name or names of manager or managers nomi 
nated by the applicant as referred by rule 114 and also the 
11amcs and addresses of the qualifier electrician in charge of 
the clectric installation and the name and address of the 
qualified operator of the cinematograph . The application 
shall accompanied by following documents : 

(1) A true copy of the No objection certificate issued 
under rule 5 . 

( 2 ) A true copy of the building permission issued under 
rule 90 . 

(3 ) A certificate from an authorised architect or a quali 
fied engineer and conntcrsigned by the Exccutive Engineer OJ 
the P . W . D . Officer concerned to the effect that the construc 
tion of the cinema is sound and in accordance with the re 
quirements laid down in chapter II and that all directions 
given or conditions specified by the Executive Engineer or 
the Public Works Department officer concerned have been 
complied with and that precautions against fire havc becs 
taken as laid down in Chupter - V . 

( 4 ) A certificate from the Electrical Inspector or the 
Assistant Electrical Inspector concerned to the effect that the 
electrical installation in the cinema is in order and has been 
inspected and passed by him ind conforms to the require 
ments of the rules under the Indian Llectricity Act, 1910 and 
to the rules specified in chapter IV and rules 77 , 78 ( 3 ) , 80 , 
81, 82 and 85 in chapter V and that all directions given os 
conditions specified by Electrical Inspector or as the case may 
be the Assistant Electrical Inspector concerned have been 
complied with and that the electrical plant and the Projection 
Apparatus in is charge of qualified hands as required by rulo 
73 . 


nent cinema by the licencing authority Day in his discretion 
pornit a touring cinema to operate at a place where there is 
already a pernianent or quasi-permanent cinemu on occasions 
such as fairs and melas Of when the touriny cinema cxhi 
bits ( ilms of a kind different from those exhibited by non 
touring cinemas c . g. cducational films or where it caters for a 
different public . 

101 . Power 10 rjuse licence . Thc Licensing Authority 
shall have absolute discretion i11 refusing & cincma licence 
if the cinetna árpears to him likely to calISC obstruction in 
convenience , annoyance , risk , danger or damage to residents 
or passcrs by in the vicinity of the Cinema . 

102 . Deal or disability of liceiisc0 . — If the licensee dics 
or become mentally incapable or otherwise disabled the per 
son carrying on the business shall not be liable to any penalty 
for carrying on the business during such reasonable timc as 
may be necessary to admit of his making an application for 
the renewal of the licence , 

103. Durullon vi licence: - A permanent cinema may be 
licensed for any period not exceeding one year and a gi175 / 
permaneni cinema or a touring cinema may be licensed for 
any period not exceeding six months. 

104 . Renewal of licences . — Thc Licensing Authority may 
on application being made to him in that behalf renew the 
cinema licence for the requisite period subjcct to rule 103 
above . An application for the renewal of a licence shall be 
made in the manner laid down in rule 99 but it shall not 
be necessary to attach to the application for renewal the truo 
copy of the No objection certificate and the truc copy of 
the building permission unless specially required by the 
Licensing Authority . 

Provided that in the case of the touring cinemas and of 
permises duly licensed for usc for cincmatograph exhibition 
before the coming into force of these rules a certificate of 
the nature referred to in sub -rule ( 3 ) of Fulc 99 from the 
Executive Engineer or the Officer of the Public Works De 
partment concerned in lieu of such certificate from an autho 
rised architect or a qualified engincer , may be attached . 


Provided further that the total period of the original 
licence and furthor renewals thercof in the case of a touring 
cinema at any onc place shall not cxcccd two years , 


Provided further that the licence of a touring cinema at 
a place shall not be renewed , if in the meantime permanent 
cincma starts functioning at that place . 


105. Fees. - ( 1 ) The fce for a licence or renewal of a 
licence inclusive of the inspection by thc Public Works 
Department Officer and the Health Department Officer shall 
be as follow : 


( a ) for a permanent cinema 


Number Licence fee for Licenco fec for Licence fce for a 
of Seats a period not a period 

period cxceeding 
cxceeding three exceeding three six month but not 
months 

months but not exceeding ono 
exceeding ( six year 
months, 


- 


- - . . 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


( 5 ) A certificate from the authority concerned that a tele 
phone in working order has been duly installed in the Cinema . 

(6 ) Nothing in sub - cule ( 5 ) shall apply to touring 
Cinemas . 

( 7 ) A certificate from any clectric supply company or a 
licensed clectrical contractor or from the Public Works De 
partment officer concerned that lighting conductors have beca 
duly provided in the cinema building, Such certificate sball 
state the actual resistance to earth found by regular test in 
the case of such lighting conductor . 

100 . Grant of cinema licence .: - Thc licensing authority on 
receipt of document and certificate referred to in rule 99 
being satisfied that all the necessary rules have been complied 
with may grant a licence for a cinema to the applicant on 
such terms and conditions and subject to such restrictions as 
the Licensing Authority may determine. The cinema liccncc 
shall be in form " E " . Provided that a touring cinema liccncc 
shall not be valid beyond the district 
touring cinema licences shall not be granted for 
places where there is already a permanent or a quasi-perma 

2 – 2591GI/ 78 


Up to 200 Rs . 15 Rs. 30 

Rs, 50 
201 to 500 20 

4 0 

75 
501 and over 28 . 56 

100 
- - -- . - . 
Provided that where a certificate regarding the lighting 
conductors as provided in sub - rule ( 7 ) of rules 99 has been 
obtained from a Public Works Department OMcer , the licence 
fce payable under this clause shall be increased by Rs. 40 ; 

(h ) fur a quasi-perm : nent or louring cinema 
Number of cats 

Licence fee for six months 

Rs. np . 
Upto 200 

22 50 
201 to 500 
501 and over 


77 ) 


152 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 23 , 1978 ( ASVINA 1 , 1900 ) [ Part III - SEC . 3 


upto 31st December following the date of issue of the 
licence , whichever is less . 

( 2 ) The following fees shall be levied for a licence granted 
under rule 107 . 


phones 


Provided that in the case of a touring cinema which changes 
its camp within two months from the date on which it was 
made the licence fee for the subsequent camp shall be half 
the rates mentioned in clause (b ) . 

( 2 ) The fees for the inspection of electric installation shall 
be separately paid in accordance with rates notified under the 
Indian Electricity rules , 1937 . 

( 3 ) The fee for making any alteration or addition in a 
Cinema Licence shall be Re . 1 and the fee for a duplicate 
licence shall be Rs. 2 . 

106 . Application for renewal to be made within one year . 
An application for the renewal of a cinema licence made 
more than one year after the date of the expiry of the pre 
vious licence shall be treated as an application for a new 
licence and all the rules shall apply mutatis mutandis to this 
application as if it were an applicanlion for a new licence . 


( 3 ) If the licence is granted for a period exceeding a 
fortnight upto 31st December following the date of issue 
. . . . . . . . Rs. 15 . 

(b ) If the licence is granted for a period not exceeding a 
fortnight. Rs. 10 . 

( c ) If the licence is granted only for a day . . . . . . . . Rs. 5 . 

Provided that in the case of a iouring cinema subject to 
( b ) and ( c ) above the fee for the licence for the first ( amp 
in a district in the year shall be Rs. 15 and no fee shall 
be charged for subsequent camp in the same year within the 
same district. 

( 3 ) The fee for a duplicate licence shall be Rs. 2 only. 


CHAPTER VIII 


LICENCE FOR SALE OF TICKETS ETC . 


CHAPTER IX 


GENERAL 


107 . Licence for sale of tickets , etc .- - No person shall sell 
or keep or offer or expose for sale or cause to be sold or 
cause to be kept or exposed for sale any ticket of admission , 
pass or any other evidence of the right of admission to any 
cinema without having first obtained a licence for the 
same from the licensing authority . The licence shall be in 
form " F " . 

108 . Tickets , etc. to be sold only at the licensed booking 
office . - - Every person holding a licence under rule 107 shall 
sell , keep offer or expose for sale any ticket or pass or any 
other evidence for admission only at the booking office or 
booking offices as approved by the Licensing authority and 
specified in the licence and no change, in the location of 
the same shall be made except with the previous permission 
in writing of the Licensing authority . 

Provided that the Licensing Authority may in the case of 
charitable shows or for any other sufficient reason permit in 
writing the sale of tickets passes or any other evidence for 
admission , at place other than the licensed booking 
or by person other than the licencee . 

109 . Prices and hours of sale to be notified on a Board . 
The licensee shall cause to be affixed and displayed in cons 
picuous manner in the Cinema Premises or at the Booking 
Office , a price list showing the various rates charged for 
tickets of different classes which are kept offered or exposed 
by him for sale and also the hours of business during which 
such sale will be effected and no sale shall be effected ex 
cept during the hours notified . 

110 . Price to be printed on the ticket etc. - Every licence 
shall print or cause to be printed on the face of every ticket , 
pass or other evidence of the right of admission to be sold 
or kept, offered or exposed for sale the price charged there 
fore plus entertainment tax , if any , and he shall not at any 
time charge for any such ticket, pass or evidence of the 
right of admission a price in excess to that printed thereon . 

111. Records to be maintained and to be subject to inspec 
tion . - Every licensee shall not at all times keep and main 
tain in full and accurate sets of records showing sale of 
tickets and their rates and produce on demand for inspection 
by a police officer of a rank not below that of a sub 
inspetcor, stocks of tickets and registers of account. 


114 . Licensee or his nominee to be present.- - Either the 
holder of the cinema licence or some person or some one of 
several persons whom the licensee has nominated as Dianager 
or managers and whose name or names have been entered 
as such in the licence , shall be present at the Cinema to which 
the licence applies during the whole time for which such 
premises are open to the public . 

115 . Display of licences. - -- The licensees shall have the 
licence displayed prominently on the walls of the office of 
the cinema . 

116 . Smoking prohibited . - No person shall smoke and no 
holder of a cinema licence or his nominated manager or 
managers shall permit smoking in the auditorium during & 
performance . Such prohibition shall not apply to persons 
sitting in their cars in the premises of a drive - in - cinema. 

117 . Spittoon . -- The cinema shall be provided to the satis 
faction of the licensing authority with a sufficient number of 
spittoons in suitable places for the use of the public . The 
spittoons shall contain a strong disinfectant and shall be 
emptied from time to time. Notices for using such spitoons 
shall be displayed in prominent parts of the cinema. 

118 . Spitting prohibited . No person shall at any time 
spit in any part of the cinema except in the spittoons pro 
vided for that purpose . 

119 . Hawking prohibited . No person shall, during a 
performance or exhibition or in the interval of the perfor 
mance or exhibition and no licensee or his nominee shall 
during a performance or exhibition or in the interval of per 
formance or exhibition allow any person to : 

(i) Hawk in the auditorium or 
( ii) sell or supply any eatables or drinks to any mem 

ber of the audience in the auditorium itself, or 
( ii ) distribute or sell whether for consideration or not 

any article or thing to any member of the audi 

ence in the auditorium itself . 
Provided that in the case of a drive- in - cinema, the licensing 
authority may permit such number of hawkers and subject to 
such conditions as may be specified in the licence . 

120 . Overcrowding prohibited . -- -No licensee shall admit to 
any part of the auditorium a greater number of persons than 
the maximum number authorised in the licence to be accom 
modated in such part and in the case of a drive- in - cinema, no 
licensee shall admit a greater number of motor cars than the 
maximum number authorised in the licence of such cinema . 

In order to ensure that this maximum is not exceeded and 
more particularly to facilitate checking by the Police at any 
time the licensee shall issue tickets bearing serial number and 
the date and the number of the performance on foils and 
counterfoils . After each performance the ticket books shall 
be marked " closed " on the last counterfoil issued . 


* h) How in the audiorium ermento 


112 . Licensee to remain present. Every person licensed 
under the Chapter shall be present at the Cinema at all 
times when the Cinema is kept open to public for huisiness 
and shall not absent himself therefrom , except with the per 
mission of the Licensing Authority endorsed on the licence . 
nor shall he permit any other person to act on his behalf 
except with the permission of the Licensing Authority en 
dorsed on the licence . 


113 . Fees. - - ( 1 ) A licence under rule 107 may be granted 
for any period upto 31st December, following the date of 
issue . 


Provided that such licence for a quasi-permanent cinema 
may be granted for any period not exceeding six months or 


PART III - Sec . 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 23 , 1978 ( ASVINA 1, 1900 ) 


153 


121. Ciruliness. — Ti livtsec shall at all tim : s käep the 
Cinema in a clean and sanitary condition . The iloors and 
ihe Walls uplo a height of 90 centim : tres shall be washed with 
a strong disinfectant at least once a month . 


122 . Duly of operators, ctc . — The persons in charge of the 

lecting apparatus , clectrical installation and plant and the 
engine room if any shall satisfy themselves before the com 
mencemeni of each performance that the apparatus or plant 
In 1 1 respective charge is ID proper working Orcs . 

123 , Cinem 1101 to be used for my other purpose .-- No 
cinema premises shall be used for any purpose other than the 
exhibition of Cincmatograph films except with the previous 
pergission in writing or the Licensing Authority , 

124 . Slot machine prohibited . — NO slot or anuscient 
Inchine shall be operated on the premises oli cinema exccpt 
with the written permission of the Licensing Authority provid 
ed that no such permission shall be required for machines 
exclusively used for the sale of articles like sweets or ciga 
rettes or for the recording of weight, 

125. Access to Inspecting Others - The licensee shall give 
free access to the cinema at all hours to the ollicers nientioned 
below : 

(i ) The Licensing Authority or any offices nominated 

by him for the purpose of currying out the duties of 
the Licensing Authority 1Jz the Act and rules and 
for checking that live provisions of the Act and the 

rules are being complied with ; 
( 17 ) Any Police officer who is required by a general or 

special order of the Licensing authority or the Chicf 

of Police to attend the $ 21713 ; and 
( iii ) The Executive Engineer of the Division or the 

Public Works Department Sub -Divisional Officer or 
the Public Works Department Electrical Inspector 
or his Assistant or the Officer of the Public Health 
Department for the purpose of seeing that the provi 

sions of these rules are being duly obscrved . 
126 . Licences nor transferulle . — A licence granted under 
these rules shall not be transferable but shall be personal for 
the benefit only of the person to whom it is granted and on 
the death of the license shall be decned to be revoked . 

127 . Licensee liable for the acts of hits mployees. — The 
licenses shall be responsible for all acts and omissions of his 
managers , servants or agents arising out of or in connection 
with the Cinema to which his licences relate , 

127. A . Exempilons to be conditional. — Notwithstanding 
anything herein before contained in these rules any relaxation 
of or exemption from any such rule in respect of premises in 
any area duly licensel for use for Cinematograph exhibition 
before the coming into force of these rules in that area shall 
operate only if such premises have been constructed in 
accordance with the provisions of the rules under which they 
were licensed and so long as such premises are not renovated 
or otherwise substantially altered and upon such renovation 
or other alteration any such relaxation or exemption shall 
cease to operate and the rule shall apply to such premises as 
it applies to other premises . If any question arises whether 
the premises are or are not renovated or substantially altered 
it shall be referred to the Licensing Authority and his deci 
sion shall be final. 

127. B . The Administrator may for reasons to be recorded 
in writing and subject to such conditions and restrictions as 
it may impose permit, generally or in particular casc , relaxa 
tion or exemption from the operation of any of the rules con 
tained in Chapter I to LX of these rules. 

127 . C . Penalty for failing to comply with or contravening 
the provisions of rules . - Any person failing to comply with 
or contravening the privisions of any of these rules shall on 
conviction be punished with fine which may extend to one 
thousand rupecs , 


grunted under these rules for contravension of any of these 
rules provided that the Licensing authority shall give the 
licensee an opportunity to show cause before taking any 
action under this sub - rule . 

( 2 ) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub -rule ( 1 ) , the 
Cinema Licence shall be liable to immediate suspension or 
cancellation by the Licensing Authority if, in the opinion of 
the Licensing authority the appliances of the cinema for pro 
tection against and for extinguishing fire are inadequate or in 
ulny way insullicient or in unsatisfactory condition . 

( 3 ) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub - rules ( 1 ) and 
( 2 ) the Licensing authority may, in his absolute discretion , at 
any time cancel or suspend any licence granted under these 
rules and may direct the licensec to close the cinema either 
permanently or temporarily or direct him to couply with 
such directions and instructions that he may issue in order to 
prevent any obstruction , inconvenience , annoyance , risk 
danger or damage to the residents or passers -by in the vicinity 
or for tho main ! enance of public safety and the prevention of 
disturbance in the Cinema and every licensee shall forthwith 
comply with any such directions or instructions given by the 
Licensing authority and if the licensce fails to comply with 
directions and instructions his licence shall be liable to immc 
diate suspension or cancellation , 

129 . Puw C 10 give directions during ppide c5 . - Without 
prejudice to the provisions of rule 128 , the Licensing autho 
sity in consultation with the Chief Medical Omcer if any, if 
so advised , direct by a special notice : 
· ( al ) a reduction in the scale if accommodation prescribed 

in rule 13 . 
( b ) the periodical disinfaction of premises which may 

include spraying and funigatuin and 
( c ) the adoption of such other measures for better ven 

tilation as may be specified in the notice ; 
and the licensco shall be bound to forthwith comply with any 
direction on failure to do so , his licence shall be liable to 
instant suspension or concellation . 

130 . Presentation of application for cxemption . - An appli 
cation for an exemption under section 17 shall bo addressed 
to the Secretary to the Administrater , Dadra and Nagar 
Haveli and unless prevented by sufficient cause be made at 
least ten days before the date of the proposed cinematograph 
exhibition , 


FORM A 


Notice under rule c of the Dadra and Nagar Haveli Cinema 

Rules. 1978 
Plcase take notice that I . . . , , . . . son of.. . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . age . . da , , . . . resident of villagc . . . . . . . . . . . 
taluku . . . . . . distinct . . . . . . . . . . . . propose locating a perma 
nent / touring at . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (name of village ) taluka . . 
. . . re . . . 

istrict . . . . . . . . . . on the land belonging to $ hri 

. . . . . . . . . admeasuring about . . . . . . . And bearing 
R . S . No . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . and bounded as under . . . . . . . . . . . . , 
C . S . No. . . . . . . . . No. . . . . . . . . . 

Notice is hereby given that any objection to the location of 
the said Cinema should be lodged with the District Magis 
trate within such time as may be notified by him . 


10 belonging to Shri 


R . S . No 


l iendameasuring about 


FORM B 
Notice Under Rule 4 of the D & NH Cinematograph Rules, 

1978 


Whercas Shri . . . . . . . . . . . . . . son of . , . . . . . . . . , age . . . . 
resident of . . . . . . . . . . taluka . . . . . . . . . . district . . . . . 
has applied to me for the grant of a " No Objection Certificate " 
for the location of a ( permanent / touring cinema ) at village 
. . . . . . , , . , , . taluka . . . . . cern district . . . . , 

: . . . . . On the 
land of Shri . . . . . . . . . . . . . . and bearing R . S . No. . . . . . . . . . 
and bounded as under C . S . No. . . . . . . . . Ward No .. . . . . . . . . 

Notice is bereby given that any person having any objection 
to the great of a " No Objection Certificate" as aforesaid 
should lovige his objection in writing with the undersigned by 
the . . . . . . . . . . day of . . . . . . . . . . . . 197 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

District Magistrate of . . . . 

Licensing Authority . 


CHAPTER X 
SUSPENSION AND CANCELLATION OF LICENCES AND 

APPLICATION FOR EXEMPTIONS 
128 . Suspension or cancellation of licenses. - ( 1 ) The 
Licensing Authority may suspend or cancel any licence 


154 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 23 , 1978 ( ASVINA 1 , 1900 ) [PART III — SEC . 3 


- 


: - 


- 


: : - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


... - - - 


— 


- - ... - - - - 


( iii ) whether cach such film is suitablo ; 

(a ) for unrestricted public exhibition and has received " U " 
certificate , or 

( b ) for public exhibition restricted to adults and has 
received " A " certificate , 

( iv ) wlicther persons who are not adults will be admitted 
or not to the exhibition of the film . 


. . . . . . . 


( b ) indicate clearly the naturc of any certificate received 
in respect of the film from the Central Board of Film Censors 
by the letter " U " or " A " as the casc may be, in any advertise 
meal of the film displayed at the premises, 


FORM D 

(RULES 5 ) 

No Objection Certificate 
In « xercise of the powers conferred by rule 5 of the Dadra 
and Nagar Haveli Cinematograph Rules , 1978 , I . , . . . . . . . 

. . . . District Magistrate of . . . . . . . . , do hereby grant 
this certificate that there is no objection to Shri . . . . . . . . . . . . 
son of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . resident of village . . . . . . . . taluka 
.. . district , . . . . . . . . . , 

. . . , locating 
TOCIN 2 por 

permanent 
cinema / touring cinema in the land belonging to Shri . . . . , 
. . . . . . village . . . . . . . . . taluka . . . . . . . . . . District . . . . . . 

The site where the cinema is to be located is specified 
below : 

(Please give here the description of the site as in form A ). 

This " No Objcction Certificate" is valid for a period of two 
years from the date of its issue in the case of permanent 
cinema and six months from such date in the case of touring 
cinema for the purpose specified in rule 5 ( 2 ) of the Dadra 
and Nagar Flaveli Cinema Rules, 1978 unless the period of 
the validity thereof is extended by District Magistrate , Dadra 
and Nagar Haveli under the proviso to the said rule and it 
within such period or extended period , as thc case may be, 
the construction of the proposed permanent cinema is not 
commenced or the touring cinema is not put up a fresh “ No 
Objection Certificate " shall be necessary , 

Given under my hand this . . . . . . . . . . day of . . . . . . . . 
197 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

District Magistrate of . . . . . 
Licensing Authority . . . . . . . , 


2. The licensee shall not exhibit , or permit to be cxbibited , 
in the Cinema, any photograph picture or poster which depicts 
OI represents or purports to represent a scene of shot which 
has been excised from any film under the orders of the afore 
said Board of Film Censor s or the Central Government . 


3 . The licensee shall not exhibit or permit or cause to be 
exhibited at the said place any postcr Or picture which is a 
gross misrepresentation of the film itself and which is obscene . 

3 , A . If for the purpose of advertising film which is being 
or proposed to be exhibited in the licensed promises , tho 
licensce is found to be cxhibiting or causing to be exhibited 
in any public place any obscene poster OI picture and is con 
victed under section 292 of the Indian Penal Code, the licence 
shall be liable to be cancelled . 


4 . The licensee shall not exhibit or permit or cause to be 
exhibited in the said place any slide which displays any 
advertisement which is of an indecent or obscène nature or 
the publication of which is prohibited under any law for the 
time being in force , 


4 . A . The licensee shall not supply or cause to be supplied 
any polaroid glasses to any person for the purpose of vicwing 
any film unless such glasscs if already used for such purpose , 
are sterilized before they are so supplied . 


5 . The licensee shall not storc inflammablo film in quantity 
oxceeding 90 .7 Kilograms at the said place unless a separate 
licence for the storage of such film has been obtained by him 
from the Chief Jaspector of Explosive in India as required by 
the Cinematograph film rules , 1948 . 


+ 


. . . . 


. . . . 


. . . . 


I YIL VI 


6 . Film sball, be stored 


( i ) in a storage shed constructed of suitable uninflammablo 
materials , the doors and ventilators may be of wood and shall 
open outwards or . 


( ii ) in a tent, placed on private ground and separated by a 
distance of not less than 7 . 5 metres from any dwelling house 
other building high ways, street or public place . 


FORM E 

(Rule 100 ) 

Licence for a Cinema 
Under the power vested in the. . . . . . . . . . . . under section 

District Magistrate 
11 of Cinematograph Act 1952 (37 of 1952 ) , licence is 
hereby granted to Shri , . 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , son of 
Shri . . . 

. . . . . . resident of . . . . . . . . . . 
District authorising him to use , cinema at . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Taluka . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . District . . . . . . . . . . . . . (more 
particularly described below ) for giving exhibition by means 
of cinematograph subject nevertheless to the following further 
conditions and restrictions : 

(Here give the full description of cinema) 

Conditions and Restrictions 
1 . The licenses shall not exhibit or permit to be exhibited 
in the Cinema — ( 2 ) any film other than a film which has been 
certified by the Board of Film Censory constituted under 
section 3 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (XXXVII of 1952 ) , 
as suitable for unrestricted public exhibition or for public 
exhibition restricted to adulty and which , when exhibited , 
displays the prescribed mark of the Board , and has not been 
altered or tampered with any way since such mark was 
affixed thereto ; 

(b ) any film which has been certified by the board of film 
Censors as suitable for public exhibition restricted to adults, 
to any person who is not an adult ; 

( c ) any film contrary to any directions that may be issued 
from time to time in this behalf by the Administration under 
section 13 ( 3 ) of the Act. 

1- A The Licensee shall 

( a ) prominently exbibit at each public entrance of the 
premises , whenever the premiscs are open to the public , a 
notico indicating in tabular form and in clear bold letters and 
figures 

(i ) the title of each film , other than trallors and advertisc 
ment films, to be shown on that day ; 

( ii ) the approximate time of commencement of each such 
film ; 


7 . The storage shed , shall not form part of or be attached 
10 any building in which any person resides or works of 
where persons assemble for any purpose unless it is separated 
therefrom by a substantial floor or partition , 

8 . The storage shed, if in any building shall not be situated 
under any staircase or under any other means of exit likely 
to be required to be used for escape in case of fire. 


9 . The storage shall be adequately ventilated near the 
ground level and also near or in the roof. All ventilators 
shall be fitted with metal grids or similar suitablo protection 
on the outside face of the wall and a layer of No. 16 mesh 
brass or other non - cornoding metal wirę gauze on the inside 
face of the wall. 


10. Film shall be kept in a securely closed Are - resisting 
receptacle . 

11. The storage shed or tent shall not be used for any 
other purpose . 

12 . ( i ) all operations connected with examination , repair 
ing, cleaning, waxing and rewinding of film shall only be 
carried out in the examination room which shall not be 
used for any other purpose and shall be separated from the 
storage shed by a partition . 


PART III - SEC . 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 23 , 1978 ( ASVINA 1, 1900 ) 


155 


( ii ) the examination roon shall be constructed of fire 
resisting materials only and well ventilated to the outside 
air . 


26 . This licence is not transferable but is personal for thc 
bencfit of the licensee mentioned above and in case the licenco 
transfer the same to any person the liccocc is liable to be 
suspended or cancelled . 

27. The persons nominated its Managers under Rule 114 
of the Dadra and Nagar Haveli Cinema rules are 


( iii ) Not more than 2 rolls of film only shall be opçned 
for examination at any one timo per examiner and not more 
than 100 rolls in all shall be under examination or repair 
at any one time. 


13 . All film waste and scrap in the examination room shall 
be placed immediately in a strong metal receptacle fitted 
with a tight hinged lid and marked " Film Waste " and kept 
under water until disposed of. The contents of the drums 
shall be disposed of at frequent intervals by . burning under 
adequate precautions or in such other manner as may be 
prescribed by the licensing authority . 


. . . . . . . . . . . son of 
resident of 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . , taluka . . . 
district . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
2 . Shri . . . . 

. . , . son of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
resident of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , talukil . . . . . 
district . . . 

28. The licence is valid till the . . . . . .. . . . day of . . .. . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 191 . . . r . . . . . . . . . 

29 . A feo of Rs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . has been received in 
respect of this liccacc . 

Given under my hand and soal this . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
day of . . . . . . 

, 197 . , . , . , , . , . , . , . 

Licensing authority . 
- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - 

Rencwals 
Date of rencwal valid till fee paid Signature of L , A . 


14. No altorations, shall be carried out in the storage shed 
or examination room without the previous sanction in wrting 
of the licensing authority , Such alteration so sanctioned sball 
be shown on an amended plant to be attached to this licence . 


15 . The furniture and other articles shall be so arranged as 
to afford free agress to persons in the room in the event of 
fire . 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


be kept posted up in large characters in 
the room ( i) full instructions as to the action to be taken 
in case of fire , & ( 11 ) full directions as to the means of cs 
cape from the room in case of fire . 


FORM F 
(RULE 107 ) 


17 . No two sheds for the storage of film shall adjoin cach 
other or be in the same building . 


18 . Adequate precautions shall at all times be taken for 
the provention of accidents by fire or explosion and no smok 
ing, firo or light or articles capable of causing fire to film 
shall be permitted at any timo within the liccused premises . 


19 . Frçe access to the licensed premises shall be given at 
all reasonable times to an Inspector and every facility shall 
be afford to such Inspector for ascertaining that the rules and 
conditions are duly observed . 


Licence to sell or keep for sale or offer or cxposo for sale 
any ticket of admission , pass or other evidence of the right 
of admission to a cincma . 

Under rule 107 of the Dadra and Nagar Haveli Cinema 
Rules , 1978 licence is hereby granted to Sbri 
son of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , resident of . . . . . . . . . . 
district . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . to sell or keep for sale or 
offer or expose for sale any ticket of admission , pass or other 
evidence of the right of admission to tho Permanent cinemai 
quasi- permanent cinema / touring cinema known as . . . . . . . . 
and situated at . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . district . . . cances . . . . 

The licensee shall sell. offer , keep or expose for sale any 
ticket of admission , pass or other evidence of the right of 
admission to the abovo cinema only at thc following places : 


20 . Any accident, fire or explosion occuring within the 
licensed premises which is attended with loss of human lifo 
or serious injury to persons or property shall be reported 
immediately to the carest Magistrate or to the Officer- in 
chargo of nearest Police Station and by telegraph or telephone 
whore such means of communication are available . 

21. If the licensing authority calls upon the holder of a 
licence by a notice in writing to execute any repairs to the 
licensed premises which are in the opinion of such authority 
necessary for the safety of the premises the holder of a 
licenco shall exccute the repairs within such period , not being 
less than one week from the date of receipt of notice , as 
may be fixed by the potice . 

22 . The licensec shall not continue any performance or 
cxhibition of any film by means of a cinematograph , after 
1 . 00 am . 


3 . This licence is valid till the . . . . . . . . . . . . day of . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 197 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . and a fee of Rs, . , . , . , 
. . . . . . . . . . due for the same has been paid by the licensce . 

This licence is granted or renewed subject to the provisions 
of the Dadra & Nagar Haveli Cinema Rules , 1978 and is 
liable to be suspended or cancelled for breach of any of 
the provisions of tho said rules , and any breach of the pro 
visions of the said rules iy punishable under the provisions 
of sec . 14 of the Act. 

Given under my hand and seal, this . . . . . . 
clay of r . , . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . 197 . , . , . . 
SEAL 

Licensing Authority 
(Roverso of Form ] 
Memorandum ofRenewal 


23 . The licensee shall comply with such other conditions 
as may be prescribed from timo to time by rules , 

24. The licensee shall not admit in the Cinema Auditorium 
or in any part or division thereof a larger number of persons 
than that indicated below : - - 
Here enter name of the The maximum aumber of person 
division of part of the that sball be admitted in the 
Auditorium . 

division or part of Auditorium , 
24, A In case of touring cinemas , the loud speakers shall 
bo kept at such a tone that the noise does not disturb the 
poace of surrounding areas . 

25 . This licence is granted subject to the provisions of the 
Cinematograph Act, 1952 , and tho Dadra and Nagar Haveli 
Cinema rules , 1978 and the conditions detailed on tho reverse 
of this licence , and is liable to suspension or cancellation for 
breach of any of the said provisions or conditions Broach of 
the provisions of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 and the Dadra 
and Nagar Haveli Cinema rules , 1978 or any conditions of 
this licence is punishable undor section 7 of the Act. 


Date of Rencwal Date upto which valid Feo paid Signature of 

L . Authority . 


ENDORSEMENT UNDER RULE 112 . 
By order of the Administrator. 

JANAK JUNCIA , 
Secretary to the Administrator, 
Dadra and Nagar Haveli 

SILVASSA . 


PRINTED BY THE MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS , FARIDABAD 
AND PUBLISHED BY THE CONTROLLER OF PUBLICATIONS, DÆLAI, 1978 


