Wo 222 - 


REGISTERED NO. D. 222 


3 TRjfl jbt^( 5 W^ 

%h.z (Sate tte «f Jfwd 

STTfwVTT $ UWTfttW 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 



Wo 38 ] =lf WftfWTT, fwWfWT 18 , 1971 /MW 27 , 1893 

No. J8] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 17, i 8 « 

fur wm 3 fwM *l«5 war cf wnft 5 ^ www wiwr if m twt wr wd 


Separate paging la given to this Part In order that It may be filed 
as a separate compilation 


WTH II — Wog 3 — 3Wo* (ii) 

PART II — Section 3 — Sub-section (U) 

( twt w'wmu ift «faur) wiyw wT*m v w wrauf w> hi tor if) sfaii?) 

<p;rftu HTfu^Wf 3TTT WTtf f«(>W HP fafa«F RT$5( tfiT ufuKUHTP | 

Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern- 
ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administration of Union Territories) 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR, EMPLOYMENT AND REHABILITATION 
(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 4th August 1971 

S.O. 3409 ,— Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that the minimum 
rates of wages should be fixed under the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 (11 of 1948) 
in respect of employment in Graphite mines covered under the Mines Act, 1952 
(35 of 1952); 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 27 of the said 
Act, the Central Government hereby gives notice of its intention to add the said 
employment to Part I of the Schedule to the said Agt, 

Any suggestions or objections which may be received from any person in res- 
pect of the said addition on or before the 1 5t.h December, 1971 will be considered 
by the Central Government. 

[LWI-I-2 (23) /G7-WE (MW).] 

'HW, T'WWTY sfi? HRHfw WWiWK 
("HU sftT TtWWTY forWTU ) 

wf 4 W*.Un 1971 

fTfo Ktc 3409 — UcT: 3>>sfftr <H <^>i <, 1?) TTH % 1% <aii trfNfWu, 
1952 ( 1952TT 35) % SRpfa $TR' HTeft ’IT'Tf R % 31^ A 




4788 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971/BHADRA 27, 189* [P*»T U— 


wftrfttm, 1948 ( 1948^ 11 ) wrfto ^ ft*rcr iff 

wft Trf^r i 

HcT: *W, sfafaw, 8ft 9TO 27 3TTT 5TTW WfaN? >PT JHfPr gt* 

TOR, Tt *P^ft % «TR 1 1 ^ PpfUfi *t TTfl ITT# *mPT 

8 ft ^RT ; ifrMrrv j left f l] 

oftf % fatfr *ft ^ 15-12-1971 8 ?t *tt ^ jttr 

gfTTflft m wrsflrt tc twix tttt Oik fw sthfit 1 

snto 1-2 (23)/ 67 y^To fo (rrq-0 3*^0] 

New Delhi, the let September 1971 

S.O- 3410. — Whereas the Central Government Is of the opision that the mini- 
mum rates of wages should be fixed under the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 (11 of 
1948) in respect of employment in Ochre mines covered under the Mines Act. 
1952 (35 of 1052); 

Now, therefor^ in exercise of the powers conferred by section 27 of the said 
Act, the Central Government hereby gives notice of its intention to add the said 
employment to Part I of the Schedule to the said Act. 

Any suggestions or objections which may be received from any person in 
respect of the said addition on or before the 30th December, 1071 will be 
considered by the Central Government. 

[No. LWI-I-2(37)/67-WE(MW.)] 
HANS RAJ CHHABRA. Under Secy. 

Hi fagrarr 1971 

8 !To WTo ’3410. — w: WW TCP PC 8 ?f 1(5 RH $ fgT tSPT ufaPPTg, 1952 
( 1952 tt 35) % «rrl GTgt 'A fWfrnr 

^ RJ7RR TT7T0 srfafiRPT, 1948 ( 1948g?T ll) % PpPT TTpfr 

HR:, VH, RW tlfirPitTR ^ HTU 27 &TTT 5TW SrflRtff W SPT>T grtfr jq; Sfafto 
RRWT ■d'W ‘uPy Piu-h *ff M^' e fl % HFT 1 if 31R fRtftSR iff % trrl KI7FT 

iff (JIM I ?f I 

RivrwtfR £ arr^ ff oft rt sn#r *rfw & 30 1971 "Pt ^rr 

HFR 97 WH pTRR | 

[R 0 -"i o 0 1—2(37) 6 7 — 4 ( 4 ^ ^ 0 ( i'H r €*?*() J 

?R TT'5T ®T*T*T, HRT Rfa;* | 

(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 4th August 1971 

S-O. 3411, — Whereas the Central Government, having been satisfied that the 
public interest so required had, in pursuance of the provisions of sub-clause (vi) 
of clause (n) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947) decla- 
red by the notifl ration of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Emp- 
loyment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) No. S.O. 947. 
dated the 11th February, 1971. service in the pyrites mining Industry, to be a 
public utility service for the purposes of the said Act, for a period of six months 
from the 22nd February, 1071; 




See. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, }971/BHAJ}RA 27, 1893 4739 


And whereas the Central Government is of opinion that public interest requires 
■extension of the said period by a further period of six months; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub- 
clause (vi) of clause (n) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby declares the said service to be a public 
utility service for the purposes of the said Act for a further period of six months 
from the 22nd August, 1971. 

[No, F. S, 11 025/20/ 71-LRI.] 

(«m q*rr fwm-finTiq) 

•Tf fWcf), 4 8T»I(W, 19 71 

«rr° 3411 . — ■ w: : Nrq qwirq, qq twiwf qf qqr qrfqr 

%q tf m qftwer qWqqr fqqrq qfqfqqq, 1947 (1947 tt 14 ) qfV 
trnr 2 tm ittw % ufs (q) % TRrr (6) % TTqrff % qq qrq q, vtitt 
(twk % «rq,Tt5rqTT qqrqq (qq qkfpqqRfqqrq) qfqg^qqr qw qq° 

947, qpfter 11 Tr/ 1, 1971 3TRT -Jsftq if qffirfqqq 

% qqrqqf % fqq 22 qrrqfr, 1971 q qrn Tt tt-trIr T fqq htt -ttvt tn r qqr 

qtfqq fqrqT <qr ; 

5fkqq: %qftq qqm qfr qjq |fq? qtqr fqqq qqq qqqRfsr qq e qrqqft 

qftr TT-TTfqfq %■ fqq qqRr qrqT qqfqq | ; 

qq: qq qtsflfqqr fqqR qfqfqqq, 1947 ( 1947 TT 14) qft UKT 2 STF 

(q) %■ qq<snr (6) % qqqjqr grcr q^q wfactq'r qr qqtqTrfr qqqrK 

tiqqiTTr qqq qqr q’r ttt qfsrfqqq % qqtaqf q Tm 22 qwr, 1971 % e 
qrq ^ q'kqqqwfq % fqq vfta wfpfr %qr qtfqcr qrtrft 1 1 

[q° qsro 11025 / 20 / 71 ^° qrro 1 ] 

New Delhi, the 10th August, 1971 

S.O. 3412. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that it is expedient 
in the public interest to add the "Security Paper Mill Hoshangabad" to the First 
Schedule to the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947); 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
40 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby 
adds the following item to the First Schedule to the said Act, after Item 20 thereof, 
namely ; — 

"21. Security Paper Mill, Hoshangabad.” 

[No. F S.11025/18/71-LR.I.] 

qf io qqqq 1971 

qqoqTo 3 4 1 2 . — qq: %qfrq q<q>rr qrr qf tr % qhftfqr fqqrq qfqfqqq-, 1947 
( 1 947 tt 14 ) qfr tm q^qt q 'fwfrfr^t qqq fqq, qfr qt^qr q>rf|q 

qqWPT t ; 

qq- qq, qmftr fqqqr qPq'wr 1947 ( 1 94 7 qr 14) ^srrrr 4 ott twitt 

( 1 ) 5TTT qqq qfqqqf qrr sotr qrer §q %^>q htuk qqq n RrPqqq 4 ?r qqq q. 

qq# q~ 2 ^ qr T?qR qqq qrq IVqfqpgq n? sftf-fi q qqfq ; — 

“ 21 . fqqqtfq^t qqT fqn. yfWTRTq' 1 

[q« qqo 1 1025/1 s/7i-qqoqn;o-i] 




479° THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER IS, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 [Pari H— 


New Delhi, the 4th September 1971 

S-O 3413. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947 (14 
of 1947). the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur in the industrial dispute net 
ween the employers in relation to the Central Bank of India and their workmen, 
which was received by the Central Government on the 2nd September, 1911- 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUN AL-CUM-LABOUR COURT r 

JABALPUR 

Case No. C.Q,I.T./LC(R)(t5)/71. 

Present : 

Justice Shri M. Chandra. Presiding Officer. 

Dated, the Arwist 12, 1971 


Parties : 

Central Bank of India 
Vs. 

Their workman 


Appearances : 

For the employers — Shri Suryodaya Trivedl, Advocate. 

For the workman — Shri M. L. Razdan, General Secretary. 

AWARD 

By an Order No. 23/71/69/LR-III, dated the 12th January, 1970, the Central 
Government referred the following industrial dispute for adjudication to the Indus- 
trial Tribunal, Delhi under Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947; — 

Schedule 

"Whether the management of Central Bank of India, Parliament Street, 
New Delhi was justified in tarmlnaitlng the services of Shri Reoti 
Saran Aggarwal, Assistant Cashier, Delhi Shahdara Branch with effect 
from the 20th June, 1966? If not, to what relief is he entitled?" 

For the ends of justice and convenience of parties, the case was transferred 
to Shri P. N. Thukral, Presiding Officer, Industrial Tribunal. Faridabad, by an 
Order No. 23/71/69/LR-III, dated the 3rd September, 1970. Thereafter by an 
Order No. 23/71/69/LR-III, dated the 15th April, 1971, the case waj; translerred to 
this Tribunal, since the services of Shri P. N. Thukral. Presiding Officer, Faridabad 
were no longer available. 

The written statements have already been filed by the parties. 

Shri Reoti Saran Aggarwal was employed in the service of Central Bank of 
India on 16th January, 1950 as an Assistant Cashier and was posted as Assistant 
Cashier in Delhi-Shahdara Branch of the Bank during the year 1965, He was 
charge-sheeted by the Bank on 18th August, 1965. There were two charges against 
him. The first charge was that he had snatched the register from Mr. Grover 
and scored off the entries pertaining to the particulars of his own salary and also 
wrote a remark on page No. 5 of the register that "as the emoluments violated 
the terms of the Award, therefore, any amount of adjustment Is illegal without hi* 
acceptance.” It was further alleged that he made a remark In the muster roll 
also saying that “as the agent is not ready to adjust the amount of his increment 
due on 31st March, 1965, he requested for not crediting any kind of remuneration 
in his name ill any account which he is entitled automatic, as per Award. This 
practice of the Agent totally violated the terms of the Award.” The act of 
snatching the salary register from Mr. Grover, scoring off the entries in the 
salary register of thie Bank and making extraneous remarks in the salary register 
and muster roll of the Bank was said to be an act! of gross misconduct on the 
workman’s part and amounted to unauthorised tampering with the records of the 
Bank. The second charge was that on 19th May, 1965 at about 9.50 a.m. Shri 
Mam Cband Jain, the pennanent T/R of Delhi-Shahdara Branch, reported that 
he had delivered an application for one day’s casual leave and had handed over 
the keys of the strong room and cash safe to Shri [Reoti Saran Aggarwal, who was 
present in the office at that time. At about 10 a.m. the sub-Agent went to the 
cash Department and asked Mr Aggarwal to open the strong room, but Shri 
Aggarwal refused to open it on certain flimsy grounds stating that he was not 



$ec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27,.1893 4 79i 


. prepared to act as T/R for on© day In vacancy of the permanent T/R Mr- Mem 
Chand Jain, who took leave for 68 days. When the sub-Agent advised Mr. 
Aggarwal to allow to other Assistant Cashier, Shri Suresh Chand, to open the 
strong room, Mr, Aggarwal objected to it also. The sub-Agent referred the matter 
to the Chief Agent) on telephone and the Chief Agent also spoke to Mr. Aggarwal 
on telephone to open the strong room without any delay, but Shri Aggarwal dis- 
regarded and denied his lawful orders. In the absence of till-money and tokens, 
the office had to make payment of the cheques presented by. the customer from 
out of the cash receipts from the public. The cash vault was finally opened by 
Mr. Aggarwal after receiving telephonic instructions from Shri L. Sheet Chandra, 
Treasurer, at about 11-55 a.m. The act of Shri Aggarwal in refusing to open the 
strong room in spite of the instructions from the sub-Agent and the Chief Agent 
was said to be an act of disobedience of a grave nature causing much Inconveni- 
■ ence and great disruption in the smooth functioning of the Branch. 

The workman’s case was that whenever the T/R was absent tb» ...kk, 
to fbf 1 Aggarwal in service was called upon to officiate as T/ll On *1 9 th May 
1965 in the absnece of T/R for a day Delhi-Shahdara branch Agent first trijd 
to find out the cashier from some other local offices of the Bar^ to offidate 
T/R, but on failure to get any such cashier the Ajfent askerl Shr-i Acfcm-rxiroi + 
officiate a$ T/R. Shri Aggarwal became apprehensive of the sudden change in the 

i^y ^Y H t Pra i Ctlce an oui etl A es to fl th e Agent to pass written orders and the Agent 
refused to do so, Shri Aggarwal thereupon requested the Agent to accent tho 
respons biUtypf the cash. The branch Agent rXsed to aLpt the res3bihtv 
a? n brought this fact to th e notice of the Bank's Contractor 

. opened^ the cash^lf/^ responslblli ty of toe cash and Shri Aggarwal immediately 

The enquiry was conducted and the Enquiry Officer relying on an alleged 
a t fl t | r ca f - a r l0fey beld Sbr Aggarwal guilty of both the charge” On 20th June 
Ihet T\ A f S ?r V f 1 W , aS dlschar S 0d from service. Shri AggarwaTs contention was 
that he had tendered an apology on the assurance of Shri F C Cooper the 

A the Bajl , k it would be seen that he was not punished 
ff an< ^ th at Shrt Aggarwal and the Union were both surprised when that very 
apology was made the basis for finally holding Shri Aggarwal guilty According 
apolo Sy W 0S not voluntarily tendered but was tendered on 
the aasls of the definite promise given to the representatives of the union by 
Shri Cooper, the then General Manager. The authority of the Chief Agent to 
Issue the charge-sheet and hi B competence to appoint the Enquiry Officer have 
been challenged and the entire action of the Bank was alleged to be illegal It 
•Sfl f A c ? n e oh ed that the Enquiry Officer had relied on the past record of 
hna wh e awar dmg the final punishment and that as Shri Aggarwal 

ad not been given even a snow-cause notice in respect of the past record the 
t taP n m r ; According to Shri Aggarwal the charges levelled against 
b ‘ ild constitute mls-conduct and he was not liable to be discharged from 
service He alleges that in any event the punishment imposed i 8 too severe and 
pZ-i?* ^portion to ^ char « es levelled against him and that the 

m lnten "°™ “ d 

section 33 (2KbT the mattCT had' asltatlS ,S ajd 8 tli© rabun P ! f< h ’f 11 Under 

-a sirs ass® wsa sss 

ing the register and making extraneous unauthorised }2i B ? atch * 

act of gross-misconduct. The refusal on C amounted to an 

to open the strong room In spite of the inrirnctiniL . s ? rttn Aggarwal 
' Chief Agent was again alleged to be an act of dlsobedient/te sub " A S ent and tb e 
another act of grols-misconduct on Shri Aggarw-ars uart H and 

by the management that Mr. Daver, Enquf^ ^Officl/was rtl m.lkw S allc ged 
competent authority, Mr. Bhalla the' Chief C y authorised by the 

allegations were denied by the workman 6 80 enqu,ry ‘ These 

bzjzsz 


4792 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 [Part U— 


etc., and to any contributions towards provident fund from the date of his dis- 
charge to the date of his reinstatement. The period from the date of discharge 
of Aggarwal to the date of his reinstatement is to be treated as leave on loss 
of pay and all other benefits but it is to be accounted for the purposes of gratuity 
and seniority for promotion. For twp years from the date of his reinstatement 
he will have no claim for promotion on the basis of length of his service. On 
reinstatement he is to be posted as Assistant Cashier-cum-Godown Keeper in any 
office in Delhi Group. 

These terms are clearly advantageous and beneficial to Shrl Reoti Saran 
Aggarwal ip view of the fact that he is being reinstated with effect from 1st 
September, 1971 and is also being treated as having continued in the Bank’s 
service for the puporses of notional increments, gratuity and seniority for promo- 
tion. He is also to get ex-gratia benflt. of Rs. 3,000/- to enable him to get over the 
debts incurred by him. 

Shri Aggarwal on his part expressed regret for his past conduct, assures proper 
behaviour and obedience to his superiors and also proper discharge of his duties 
and responsibilities. 

The settlement thus secures to the Rank the services of the workman with an 
assurance for proper behaviour and obedience to the superiors, proper discharge 
of his duties and responsibilities. This is clearly in the interest of the Bank. 

On reading the terms of the compromise of the settlement, therefore, I find 
that the settlement is advantageous and beneficial to both the parties. It is 
accordingly accepted and an Award a$ prayed by the parties is made in terms of 
the settlement ‘which shall form part of the order. In view of the circumstances 
of the case parties will bear their own costs. Let the Award be sent to the 
Central Government. 


(Sd.) M. Chandra, 

Presiding Officer. 

Central Government Industrial Tribunal- 
cum-Labour Court, Jabalpur. 

Memorandum of Settlement arrived at on 11 th August, 1971 in the matter of an 
Industrial Dispute between the Management of Central Bank of India New 
Delhi and their workmen, Mr. Reoti Saran Aggarwal as represented by 
Central Bank Workers Union, Delhi, 

Parties Present': 

For the Management— Shrl M. L. Bhalla. Chief Agent, Central Bank of 
India, New Delhi, 

For the Workmen — Shri U. L. Razdan, General Secretary, Central Bank 
Workers Union, Delhi. 

Short Recital 

Mr. Reoti Saran Aggarwal joined the service of the Central Bank on 

i pth January, 1950 as Assistant Cashier . On certain charges be was dischaMed 
from the Bank’s service on 20th June, 19&6. This dispute is at present pwidlng 
before the Hon’ble Industrial Trlbunal-cum-Labour Court (C), Jabalpur as Refer- 
ence No. CG1T/LC(R)(15)-71. The parties expressed desire to arrive at a mutual 
settlement in this matter and after discussions have arrived at the follow! g 
terms atid. settlement in th.e dispute. 

Terms of Settlement 

1. That Mr. Reoti Saran Aggarwal will be reinstated in the Bank’s service with 
effect from 1st September, 1971. 

9 Thnt the fixation of basic pay of Mr. Reoti Saran Aggarwal will be made 
Lit Chad continued to be in Bank’s service l.e. he shall be given 
ihe notional increments from the date of his discharge to the date of his 
. tlm Tt tier First and Second Bipartite Settlement governing among 
reinstatement as pe F ^ bu( . he wil] not be entitled to any arrears 

others, the Cent al B bonU s e tc. He further shall not be entitled to any 

contribution SS provident fund from the date of his dfechage to the date ot 
his telnstatement. 




SEC. 3{fi)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 4793 


3. That the period from the date of discharge of Mr. Reoti Saran Aggarwal 
to the date of his reinstatement will be treated as leave on loss of pay and all 
other benefits. 

4. That the period from the date of discharge of Mr. Reoti Saran Aggarwal to 
the date of his reinstatement shall, of course, be accounted to the purpose of 
gratuity and seniority for promotion. 

5. That Mr. Reoti Saran Aggarwal will have no claim for promotion on the 
basis of length of his service for two years from the date of. his reinstatement. 

6. That on his reinstatement, Mr. Reoti Saran Aggarwal will be posted as Assis- 
tant Cashier-cum-Godcwn Keeper in any office in Delhi Group. 

7. That Mr. Reoti Saran Aggarwal while expressing regret for his past conduct, 
assures proper behaviour and obedience to his superiors and also proper dis- 
charge of his duties and responsibilities. 

8. That as Mr. Reoti Saran Aggarwal was unemployed for about 5 years and 
has been pursuing his case in the Tribunal with the result he had to be in debt 
and also in view of his assurance for decent find proper behaviour, the Bank 
shall pay to Mr. Reoti Saran Aggarwal Rs. 3,000/- (Rupees three thousand only) 
as ex-gra tia payment. 

9. In consideration of the above, the parties hereby agree that the settlement 
shall be binding on the management of the Bank and the workman. 

For Central Bank Workers Union : For Central Bank of India : 

(Sd.) M. L, Razdan. (Sd.) M. L. Biialj.a 

(Sd.) Reoti Saran Aggarwal. 

Witnesses: 

1. S. K. Gauba, 

2. R, C. Chandwany. 

Filed and verified by Sri Suryadaya Trivedl, Advocate, for th e Management and 
Shri M. L. Razdan, General Secretary of the Union identified by Sri Suryodaya 
Trivedl, Advocate. Compromise is also verified by Sri Reoti Saran Aggarwal, 
applicant In person, who is also identified by Sri Suryodaya Trivedi, 

(Sd.) M. Chandra, 

Presiding Officer. 
12-8-71. 

(Sd.) Suryodaya Trivedi, 

Asstt, Law Officer. 

(Sd.) M. L. Razdan, 

General Secretary, 

C.B.W.U. 


''Sd.) Reoti Saran Aggarwal, 
Workman. 

[No. 23/71/69/LRIII.] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 31st July 1971 

S.O. 3414. — Whereas the industrial dispute specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed is pending before Shri K, P. Gupta. Presiding Officer. Industrial Tribunal 
Allahabad. 

And, whereas, tho services of Shri K. P. Gupta have ceased to be available. 

Now, thereiore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A, and sub- 
section (1) of section 33B of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 (14 of' 1947), "the 
Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Ttibuial with Shri Aftab 
Ahmad as the Presiding Officer, with headquarters at Kanpur, withdraws the 
proceedings in relation to the said dispute pending before Shri X. P. Gupta and 
transfers the same to the said Industrial Tribunal. Kanpur constituted with Shri 



4794 THE GAZETTE OP INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 [Part H— 


Aitab Ahmad as Presiding Officer thereof and directs that the said Tribunal shall 
proceed with the proceedings from the stage at which they are transferred to it 
.and dispose of the same according to law. 

Schedule 


Parties to the dspute Order No. and Date S. O. No of Gazette and year of 

publication 


Punjab National Bank and their 24/3/70 LRIII dated the 3107/70 
^workmen 5th September, 1970 


[No. 24/3/70/Uftm.] 


wrfcr 

ftffcpsfr, 3i^rrt 1971 

wrto wo 34i4‘ — sfaftfipF fw* *ft%° 
tjRrr, cftjrnfVd wftmft sfafrftRF tTfErroir % mm erfaRi $ i 

*rt: sft %o q^o Trc^rr <f?t mu rtojet ^ r$r i 

XRT: SOT, tfWfw f^RTET 5rfHfHd4, 1947, (1947 TT 14) 9TTT 7 *F «flR 
«rr^T 33isrqftwrra (1 ) an-u n<wi mfWr *ft snfttr *FRrt 5^ foffar tor q^rcura 
trtp trWtf-TT trf tTfrcq- trfer Tr-Rfr | f3ra% qftercfk Rftpprft «ft wmrmwfTK 5 W 
fro g wn ' gp r whe: £ett ErVR«ft%o 'ft ^rr% ftr<iNd 
tpRkrf^rf ^ 'Tiqtr %% m w «r?*re % 'fteitfM vftmft % wr% 

nfer »fm^< 4ft srtPrt MTR ft $ wVf fa^r £rft $ fa sw 

WftPFE'T tfK 5TRT 'JR w H/mi^t MERf % ftTR WRTR $Wr fatT MR tqr Rtf Wfftffatf 

ift tff I tffa fafsr % *OJtfTE RtfW ftfMRTEtf I 


fatfRC % MtfPFTR 


irfan - tfwr tflE tfrfta ww qft’FTo ero 

FtaTr tftfTtfWEr 


TOtf tftftftf sftR Rtf% 'FMVTT, 24/8/70-^oSrTTo-III 3707/70 

ffittu 5 ftrdwrt, 

1970 


[?fw MTT° 24/3/7 0— t^ToRTRo— XII] 

tttfofTRo tf^tfTdTtftf, SRTTtfftftf I 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 197J/BHADRA 27, 1893 4795 


CORRIGENDA 

New Delhi, the 4th August 1971 

S.'O, 3415 . — -In the notiflealon of the Government of India in the Department of Labour 
and Employment No. S.O- 221, dated the 5th June 1971, published on pages 3209 to 3218 of 
the Gazette of IndiaPart II — Section 3 Sub-Section fii) the following corrections shall be carried 
out ; 


SI. 

No. 

Page No. 

Line 

For the words/figures 

Please read 

I 

3212 

I 2 &I 3 

Reference No. F. 12-I of 1970 

Reference No. NIT -1 of 1970 

2 

3212 

25 

Rs. 230— T5— 245— 20— 325— 
23 — 435 . 

Rs. 230 — 15 — 245—20 — 385 — 
25 — 433 - 

3 

3212 

26 

Rs. 150 — 10 — 200 — 15 — 245 — 
20L-285 — 25 — 510 

Rs. 150—10 — 200 — 15 — 245 — 
20— 385— 25— JIO. 

4 

3212 

27 

Rs. 325 — 2J — 325 — 26—560 — 

40 — 840 (Non-technica) 
categories only). 

Rs, 325—20 — 385—25—560— 
40— ^640 (Non-technlcal. 
categories only) 

5 

3212 

28 

Rs. 325 — 2; — 560 — 40 — 720 

Rs. 385 — 25 — 560 — 40 — 620. 

6 

3212 

29 

Rb. 435 — 25 — 560—40 — 720 — 

80 — 870, 

Rs. 435 — 25—560 — 40 — 720 — 
50—870. 

7 

3212 

49&50 

Ra. 150 — 10—200—15 — 245 — 20 
— 435 . 

Rs. 150 — 10 — 200 — 15 — 245 — 
20—345 

8 

3212 

28 

Said 

Paid 

9 

3215 

12 

Rs. 140I- 

Rs. 149!- 


[ N 0.4/82 /70/IRIII] 
S. S. SAHASRANAMAN, Under Secy. 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 6 th September 1971 

S.O, 3416.— In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947 
<14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, in the industrial dispute between 
the employers In relation to the management of Stone Quarries/Companies as given 
In Schedule I of the Award and their workmen, which was received by the Central 
Government on the 31st August, 1971. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL. BOMBAY. 

R$F. No. CGIT -6 of 1966 

Parties: 

Employers in relation to certain Stone Quarry Companies 

And 

Their workmen. 

Present: 

Shri A. T. Zambre, Presiding Officer. 





4796 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, I 8 SJ. [Part II— 


Appearances: 

For employers 1, 2. 3 and 8. — Shn K. Srinivasamurthy, Advocate with Shn 
Manlk Arke, Secretary, Shahabad, Stone Quanrties Lease Holders’ 
Association. 

For employer No. 4. — Shri A. T. Joshi, Labour Adviser. 

For the workmen .— Shri D. H. Dharap with Shri S. Chandrasekhar, Vice- 
President, Shahabad and Martur Stone Quarriea Labour and Emplo- 
yees' Union and General Secretory, Tandur Stone Quarries Labour 
and Employees’ Union, 

Shri S. B, Kamat, Advocate for the Stone Quarry and Polishing 
Workers’ Union. 

State: Andhra Pradesh and Mysore. Industry: Stone Quarrying. 

Bombay dated 30th July, 1971. 

AWARD 

The Government of India, Ministry ef Labour and Employment had by their 
Order No. 36/11/65-LRI dated 17th September, 1665 under section 10(1) (d) of the 
Industrial Disputes Act referred to the Industrial Tribunal, Hyderabad for adjudi- 
cation an industrial dispute existing between certain stone quarriesi/ companies 
specified in the following schedule No, 1 and their workmen in respect of the 
matters specified in schedule No. 2:' — 

Schedule 1 

1. Messrs. Tandur and Navandgi Stone Quarries (P) Limited No, 1-10-146, 

Begumpet, Hyderabad 16, 

2. Messrs. Shahabad and Martur Stone Supplying Company (P) Limited, 

Shahabad, Mysore State. 

3. Messrs- Chittapur Stone Quarrying Company (Private) Limited, Chittapur, 

Mysore State. 

4. Messrs. Wadi Stone Marketing Company Limited, Wadi, Mysore State. 

5. Messrs. Vijaya Stone Supplying Company, Seram, Mysore State. 

6. Messrs. Karnatak Stone Supplying Company, Seram, Mysore State. 

7. Messrs. Stone Supply Company Limited, Post Office Kurkunta, Mysore 

State, 

8. Messrs. GIngurthi Stone Company, P.O. Tandur, Andhra Pradesh. 

Schedule II 

(1) Whether the employers mentioned in Schedule 1 are justified in refusing 

paid National Festival Holidays to their workmen? 

(2) If not, what Should be the number of such paid Festival Holidays In 

a year, and. from what year are the workmen entitled to get 
the benefit?” 

2 Subsequently Government by their Order No. 36/11/65-LR.I dated 6th 
January, 1966 in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 33B 
of the Industrial Disputes Act withdrew the proceedings from the Industrial 
Tribunal, Hyderabad and transferred them to this Tribunal with a direction to 
proceed the said proceedings from the stage at which they were transferred, 

3 The Tandur and Navandgi Stone Quarries Labour and Employees’ Union has 
by its statement of claim filed on behalf ol the workmen employed by the employer 
Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 8 have contended that the said four companies are engaged in the 
mining and extraction of limb stone employing thousands of workers. In the 
Tandur Quarry Company about 2000 workers are employed. In the Shahabad 
and Martur Stone Supplying Company about 500 to 600 workers are employed. 
The same number is employed by '.he Chitlapur Company and that these companies 
are functioning since a long time and have profited by fleecing the workmen by 
paying them very low wages. It is alleged that the employers have denied all 
leave and holidays with wages throughout the year. Even National Holidays, like 
Republic Day and Independence Day which are allowed all over the country as 
paid holidays have been denied to the workers. Similarly other paid festival 
holidays are also not. given. The employees are also denied elementary leave 
privileges There is no casual leave, privilege leave or sick leave nor any weekly 



Sic- 3(ii)l THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 16, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 4797 - 


off and the workers are entitled to at least 15 days holidays in a year. They have 
demanded 15 National and Festival holidays such as — 

(1 j Republic Day. 

(2) Independence Day. 

(3) Dussehera- 

(4) Deepavali. 

(5) 2nd October. 

(6) Makara Sainkrant. 

(71 H6I1. 

(8) Hindu New Year Day (Ugadl). 

(9) Mbharram, 

(10) Ramzan, 

(11) Bakri Ed. 

(.12) Erwaka "Kaaroon”. 

(13) October 7th (International Worker? Solidarity Day). 

(14) 2nd May (Workers’ Day). 

(15) Maha Shiv Ratri. 

and liav e requested that the workers should be granted these holidays with wages 
and the benefit with ettect from the date of the demand. 

4. Some of the employers are the members of the Shahabad Stone Quarries 
Lease Holders Association. The Association has by its reply statement contended 
that the question referred to this Tribunal was only in respect of the grant of 
national holidays with pay. In this country ther e are only two National Holidays 
l.e. Republic Day and Independence Day and as the management has been giving 
the workmen holidays on those days the only question is whether the workmen 
should be paid, for those days. Tney have opposed the reference oh the technical 
contentions that the questioh of festival holidays is outside the scope of the 
reference and thisi Tribunal has no jurisdiction to go Into that question. In the 
alternative it has been submitted that the demand of the workmen for the grant 
Df 15 festival holidays was beyond all proportion especially when there is a demand 
in the country for increased production. It has alleged that ever larger and well 
established units were granting only 7 festival holidays per year and the present 
trend was towards reduction of festival holidays. It has further contended that 
the employers have no capacity to grant the festival holidays with pay as demanded, 
and the workers’ demand should pe rejected. 

5. Government had forwarded, the copies of the reference order only to (1) 
the Shahabad and Martur Stone Quarry Labourers and Employees Union, Branch 
Chittapur, Gulbarga District, Mysore State and (2) the Tandur Stone Quarries 
Labour and Employees Union, Post Office Tandur, C. Rly., A. P. Hyderabad 
District. Both these union:? are headed by tfie same President and are branches 
of the Stone Quarry and Employees Union ahd have tiled a, common-statement. 
But during the pendency of the proceedings sbme other unions put forth their 
appearance viz. The Shahabad Stone Workers’ Untpn arid the Wadi Stone Marketing 
Workers’ Union and asked for only adjournment Tor negotiations but did not put 
in any Written statements. The employers’ association-, had not stated as to on 
Whose behalf they had filed th&lr written statement. .Henc* fresh notices were 
issued and employer No. 3 filed a statement dated 28th July, 1970 raising conten- 
tions similar to those put forth by the association. 

0 Employer No. 4 the Wadi Stone Marketing Company Limited, by an applica- 
tion dated 3rd August. 1970 contended that the reference Wfts ultra vires on the 
ground that there was no industrial dispute between the company and their 
workmen in the matter of national end festival holidays. They have alleged that 
their workmen had never raised any demand either with, the company or with the 
Government in respect, of holidays* agd in view of the decision of the Supreme 
Court reported iq 1908 I LL.T 834 the ref ' J renc«,ig gainst empolyer No. 4 was ultra 
vires. It has been further alleged in the written statement that the union had 
not filed any statement of claim against the company and the present reference 
should be rejected. The Stone Quarry and Polishing Workers’ Union had also 
made an application on 30th August, 1970 that their union was the only representa- 
tive union representing the workmen of the Wadi Stone Marketing Company 
employer No 4 The workmen weie never represented by any other union; that 
their workmen had never raised any dispute with the Wadi Stone Marketing 
Company In the matter of national festival holidays and there is no dispute 
between them and the employer. 



4798 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 [Past II— - 


7. From the replies of the managements it Is clean: that the employers have 
mainly resisted the reference on the basis of the vagueness of the wording of the 
reference order and have contended that the Tribunal has to decide only the issues 
as specified by the reference order, If has no power to amend the order and as 
the reference is not valid the same should be thrown out for want of jurisdiction 
and I shall first deal with the technical contentions of employers Note. 1, 2, 3 and 8 
about the validity of the reference. 

8. Shrl K, Srinivasamurthy, Advocate, appearing for employers Nos. 1 , 2, 3 
and 9 has argued that there are only two National holidays i.e^ Republic Day 
26th January and Independence Day 15th August. There are no national holidays 
except these two and the question Is what meaning should be attached to the 
reference. Government have in the order used the words “national festival 
holidays"’ while in para 2 of the order they have used the words ‘‘what should toe 
the number of such paid festival holidays in the year”. Paragraph 2 does not 
speak of national holidays and the Tribunal has no Jurisdiction to find out the 
meaning to be attributed to the reference order. The parties ought to have got 
the matter clarified from Government and under the circumstances no relief can 
be given to the parties. The learned Counsel has relied upon the rulings reportea 
.In 1959 II LLJ 666 and 1963 1 LLJ 507. 

9. I do not think these rulings help the employers in their contention in barring 

j urisdiction of the Tribunal to decide the issues referred under the reference order 
n the ruling reported In 1963 1 LLJ 507 It has been observed: — 

“Section 10(4) of the Industrial Disputes Act makes It clear that where a 
reference is made to a labour court for adjudication it shall continue 
Its adjudication to the points of dispute referred for adjudication. If 
the reference is made to an incorrect assumption it is certainly not 
open to the industrial tribunal while so holding to enlarge by Its own 
choke the scope of the reference and widen the issues for decision 
and the field for enquiry including the evidence.” 

The other ruling also lays down tha same principle that the Industrial Tribunal 
hats to confine Its adjudication to the points specified In the order of reference. 
However, It has nowhere been laid down in these rulings that the Tribunal has no 
power to find out the nature of the dispute referred to It. 

10. Shrl Chandrasekhar the General Secretary of the Union has relied upon tot 
ruling reported In 1967 1 LLJ 423 (Delhi Cloth and General Mills v. Its workmen] 

.in which on page 431 their Lordships of the Supreme Court have observed: — 

“In our opinion, the tribunal must in any event look to the pleading of th- 
parties to find out the exact nature of the dispute because in mos 

cases the order of reference fs so cryptic that it la Impossible to cul 
out therefrom the various points about which the parties were a 
variance leading to the trouble.’' 

Considering these observations the contention of the management that th 
-tribunal cannot find out the meaning of the order cannot he accepted and th 
nature of the Industrial dispute shall have to be determined from the referenc 
.order and the pleadings etc., of the parties. The wording of the reference ord« 

Is as follows: — 

1. “Whether the employers mentioned in Schedule 1 are Justified In refusing 

Paid National Festival Holidays to their workmen? 

2. If not, what should be the number of such paid festival holidays In a 

year and from what year are the workmen entitled to get the benefit?” 

11. It Is not In dispute that on holidays work In an establishment Is ordinarily 
closed According to toe dictionary meaning "holiday” means a day of Idleness 
and recreation and a national holiday would mean a holiday for national rejoicing 
or holiday of national Importance. There are also other sectional holidays on 
which toe establishments are closed for social and religious festivals and those 
holidays can be referred to as festival holidays. Thus there are two types of 
holidays and by referring the question of paid national festival holidays it Is 
clearly meant paid national and festival holidays. It is an admitted fact that the 
quairies grant 15 holidays in a year but they are without payment. The manage- 
ments have endorsed the application of the union dated 19th August, 1970 to tost 
effect and the question la not on what holidays the establishments should be 




Sec- 3(ii)l THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971 ,'BHADRA 27, 1893 47991 


closed. Considering the wording in the two paragraphs of the reference order 
and the pleadings in my opinion the real stress is not in respect of the character 
of the holidays as national holidays or festival holidays but it is in respect of 

E ayment of wages on holidays i.e. on paid holidays. The Shahabad Stone Quarries 
ease Holders Association has in Its written statement stated that the manage-- 
ment had been giving the workmen the National Holidays and the only question, 
is whether they should bo paid on those days, 

12. It is significant to note that the reference has been made because of the 
charter of demands made by the Stone Quarries Labour and Employees Union. 
The Government has along with the order of reference forwarded the three failure- 
reports made by the Regional Labour Commissioner which gives the substance of 
the demands. The report says that the Tandur Stone Quarries Labour and Emplo- 
yees Union raised two disputes over the charter of demands of the workmen of ' 
Tandur and Navandgl Stone Quarries (P) Limited, and the Gingurthi Stone 
Company The demand Included revision of w-ages of workmen engaged on various 
piece-rated jobs, payment of dearness allowance introduction of certain benefits 
provided in the various labour laws, festival holidays and bonus for the years 
1962-1963 and 1963-1964. Thus this will show that according to the charter the 
workmen had asked for festival holidays. 

13. In the failure report in respect of the charter of demands filed against the 
Shahabad and Martur Stone Supplying Company while giving the substance of the 
demands the Regional Labour Commissioner has stated that the charter of demands 
includes increase in rate of wages of the workmen employed In various operations, 
dearness allowance, Introduction of provident fund, wage slips and leave with 
wages, paid national festival holidays and bonus for the year 1963-64. Thug the 
reports would show that the demand was In respect of both national and festival 
holidays and Government by the order has referred the dispute about paid 
Rational and Feslval Holidays. 

14. It is not In dispute that In our country there ar e only two National Holidays, 
the Republic Day and Independenc e Day. Had the reference been only in respect 
of National Holidays then there was no question of the wording in the second 
paragraph as to what should be the number of such paid festival holidays and 
It is clear that the dispute is In respect of both paid national holidays and paid 
festival holidays. 

15. This will be further corroborated from the evidence of the enquiries mode 
by the employers about the number of holidays with other managements. The 
employers habe examined Shri Krishnamurthy who was the Administrative 
Manager of the Tandur and Navandgi Stone Quarries (Private) Limited. He has 
produced the letters which the management had received from the Associated 
Cement Companies Limited. Shahabad Works and the Mahaboob Shahl Kulburga 
Mills Company Limited, Gulburga. He has further statecf that the Manager had 
sent the letters to the companies to make enquiries about the number of holidays 
in the year and he himself had drafted those letters. This clearly shows that the 
dispute was In respect of all the paid holidays In the year. Had it been only in 
respect of national holidays which are well known to be only two there was no 
question of making any enquiry and it shall have to be held that the dispute 
referred to this Tribunal is in respect of the number of paid National and festival 
holidays. 

10 The learned Counsel has further argued that when Government have in 
■paragraph 2 of their order used the words “such festival holidays” they excluded 
National Holidays and as the two parts are inconsistent no relief can be given. 
The General Secretary of the Union Shri S. Chandrasekhar has relied upon the 
observations of their Lordships of the Supreme Court in 1962 II LLJ 227 (Express 
Newspapers Ltd,, and their workmen) in which their Lordships have emphasised 
the necessity of framing the order of reference carefully and have further given 
directions to the Courts in construing such orders. They have observed: — 

“An order of reference hastily drawn or drawn in a casual manner often 
gives rise to unnecessarv disputes and thereby prolongs the life of 
industrial adiudication which must always be avoided. Even so when 
a question of this kind is raised before the Courts the Courts must 
attempt to construe the reference not too technically or in a pedantic 
manner but fairly and reasonably. 

I have already considered the wording of the reference order, the pleadings and 
the substance of th e demand from the failure report and I am satisfied that the- 



4800 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 LPart li- 


re al dispute between the parties Is in respect of paid national and festival holidays 
. and the first question Is whether the employers are justified in refusing paid 
-National and festival holidays to the workmen. 

17. The union has in its statement of claim contended that the workmen 
- employed by the company are denied all leave and holidays with wages during 

the year. There Is no casual leave or privilege leave to. them. Even sickness 
benefits allowed under the Employees State Ifasur’ance are not available to them and 
they should be granted 15 days as paid National and festival holidays. It Is not 
in dispute that the workers employed by these companies are not getting any 
paid holidays or leave and there is much substance in the contentions raised by 
the workers. It is known that the various State Governments have made provi- 
sions for paid holidays under the Negotiable Instruments Act. It is also not in 
dispute that almost all commercial and industrial establishments and factories 
have by their standing orders made provision for paid holidays. The employees 
In question are quarry workers. 1 They have to work In the hot sun ahd consider- 
ing all the circumstances It shall have to be held that the employers are not justified 
In refusing paid National and festival holidays to their employees. 

18. Before considering the second part of the reference it is necessary to deal 
with the plea of the Wadi Stone Marketing Co., Etd, Myspre State, Employer 
No. 4 raised by them by their subsequent written statement filed on 4th August 
1970 in respect of the validity of the reference. By this written statement they 
have contended that their workmen had not made any specific demands for paid 
holidays, that they had not raised any dispute and as there is no Industrial dispute 
this Tribunal has no jurisdiction. The learned Counsel Shri Josh! on their behalf 
has relied upon the ruling reported in Sindhu Resettlement Corporation Ltd. v, 
their workmen (1908 1 LLJ page 834) in which it has been observed: — 

"On the facts of this case, it is clear that the reference made by the Govern- 
ment was not competent and mere demand to a Government without 
a dispute being raised by the workmen with their employers cannbt 
become an Industrial dispute ” 

It has been further argued that even after the reference the workmen had not 
filed any statement of claim In justification of the demand and the reference should 
be dismissed against the employer No. 4. 

19. Shri S. Chandrasekhar, Vice-President of the Shahabad and Martur Stone 
Quarries Labour and Employees Union has in his rejoinder contended that the 
workmen employed by this company were not allowed any holidays with pay not 
even the National festival holidays, like Republic Day and Independence Day. 
The workmen were very poor and illiterate. They had made oral representations 
and asked the management to allow them holidays with pay but their request was 
never granted, It was not that there was no demand but the workers were carry- 
ing on with seething discontent and the demand of 15 paid holidays was applicable 
even to the Wadi worker?. Regarding the competency of the reference It has 
been further contended that Government have powers to make a reference based 
on apprehension of industrial unrest prevailing among the quarry workers of 
the region. All the quarries which are parties to the reference are situated In 
the same locality on the borders of Mysore and Andhra Pradesh. The employers 
were represented by the Lease Holders Association and Government has referred 
the dispute in exercise of their powers conferred under section 10(5) of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act. It is an industrywise dispute. No specific demand is necess- 
ary against each management and the contention advanced by the employers 
Should not be accepted and the next question Is whether the present reference 
against employer No, 4 the Wadi Stone Marketing Company Ltd v is competent. 

20. It is not In dispute that no specific written demand has been made to the 
employers of the Wadi Stone Marketing Co., about paid holidays. Even the 
Secretary of the Union Shri Bhimsha who has been examined has admitted in 
his cross-examination that he had not made any demand about paid holiday on 
behalf of the Wadi workers and It can be accepted that there was no specific demand 
about paid holidays by the workers to employer No. 4. However it is not in dis- 
pute that on behalf of the quarry wokers various demands were raised by the 
Siiabha and M irtui Slone QuarUes Labou- end v pit,— es Union. o-e d nil ndj 
were in rcspec* of rates of wages, dearne; s allowance. National festival holidays" 
provident fund, leave and other benefits and conditions of service a _ d were made 
against many quarries of the locality . I hare already quoted in nriet the sub- 
stance of the demand as seen in the f; dure report in respect of some managements. 
It is also not in dispute that because of these demands Government had passed two 
reference orders in respect of the demands and referred the two disputes to this 




Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 4801 


Tribunal. One of them is the instant reference No. 5/60 and the other is 
Ref. No, 72/66. This Re f - No. 5/66 pertains to only paid holidays while the other 
Ref. 72/65 is in respect of rate of wages, dearness allowance etc., and these referen- 
ces are heard together in this Tribunal. The employers Messrs. Wadi Stone 
Marketing Co., Private Ltd., Is a party in both these references and it is clear 
that Government has included the WacH Stone Marketing Company in this refer- 
■ence also because of those general demands which clearly shows that the present 
industrywise reference has been made by Government in exercise of the powers 
under section 10(5) of the Industrial Disputes Act. They have joined almost all 
the quarry companies as parties to this reference and it is unnecessary that there 
should be a specified and actual demand against every employer in respect of th« 
paid holidays for rendering the reference competent. 

21. Section 10(6) of the Act reads as follows:— 

10(5) “Where any dispute concerning any establishment or establishments 
has been or is to be referred to a Labour Court, Tribunal or National 
Tribunal under this section and the appropriate Government is of 
opinion whether on an application made to it in this behalf or other- 
wise that the dispute is of such a nature that any other establishment 
group or class of establishments of a similar nature is likely to be 
interested in or affected by such dispute the appropriate Government 
may at the time of making the reference or at any time thereafter 
but before the submission of. the award include in that reference 
such establishment, group or class of establishments whether or not 
at the time of such inclusion any dispute exists or is apprehended 
in that establishment group or class of establishments.” 

From the wording of this section it Is clear that the appropriate Government is 
competent to include any establishment or class of establishments when it wants 
to refer a dispute concerning similar establishments. It is not in dispute that the 
Wadi Stone Marketing Co., is situated In the same area. It is also not In dispute 
that the company carries on the same business. It is also clear from the failure 
reports that there were disputes between the workmen and the managements as 
The employees had made demands for revision of wages and paid holidays etc. It 
cannot be disputed that even the workers employed by the Wadi Stone Marketing 
Co., are likely to be Interested or affected by the result of the fixation of wage 
scales and paid holidays in the adjacent establishments and considering the 
circumstances it shall have to be held that Government was perfectly justified in 
including the Wadi Stone Marketing Co., in this reference under section 10(B) of 
the Act. 

22. The learned Counsel Shrl Joshi has argued that the reference order itself 
states that Government have made the reference under section 10(1) (d) of the 
Act. There is no mention of section 10(5) and it is not an industrywise reference 
under section 10(5). I have already stated that all these quarries of the eight 
companies ore situated in the same region. They are also near each other. It 
is significant to note that a majority of the establishments are the members of the 
Shahabad Stone Quarry Lease Holders Association. The Wadi Stone Marketing 
Company Is also a member of this Association. The Association has not In its 
written statement contended that there was no demand for paid holidays. This 
written statement was also filed on behalf of employer No. 4 and these circum- 
stances also clearly show that the reference has been made under section 10(6) of 
the Industrial Disputes Act. 

23. As regards the specific mention of section 10(1) (d) in the reference order 
I do not think this will make any difference or will go to show that it Is not an 
industrywise reference. It Is significant to note that every reference to a Tribunal 
under the Act has to be made in exercise of powers conferred under section 7A 
and 10(1) (d) and no significance can be attached to the mention. In an industry- 
wise reference a similar establishment can be joined without any dispute. The 
wording in section 10(5) “whether or not at the time of such inclusion any dispute 
exists or Is apprehended in that establishment” clearly negatives the contentions 
raised by the employers that the reference is not valid as there was no dispute. 

24. The learned Counsel has emphasized the ratio of the ruling quoted above 
which requires the existence of a dispute for the validity of the reference. I do 
not think that the principle laid down in that particular ruling which is applicable 
to the particuler situation can be disputed. It has to be remembered that, it was a 
dispute in respect of reinstatement of a retrenched employee and the reference 
was made in respect of the individual dispute. It was not in respect of an indus- 
trywjsc dispute as in the present case and the contention that the reference is 
not competent in respect of the Wadi Stoue Marketing Co., Ltd., cannot be accept- 
ed. 



48 02 the GAZETTE OF INDIA; SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA if, 1893 [Part IF— 


25. The learned Counsel Shrl A, T. Joshi and Shri S. B. K&mat have Further 
argued that the employees; of the company were not the members of the Shahabad 
and Martur Stone Quarries Labour and Employees Union. It was not a repre- 
sentative union and they had no right to represent the workmen. Their employees; 
are represented by the other union known as Wadi Stone Marketing Co. (P) Ltd., 
Workers’ Union. It is contended that the union has now changed its name and 
is known as the Stone Quarry and Polishing Workers’ Union, This union has 
not made any claim in this reference and there is no dispute between the manage- 
ment and their workers about paid holidays. It has been further argued that even, 
the Shahabad and Martur Stone Quarries Labour Union not in their first state- 
ment of claim dated 26th October, 1966, Included the employees of this company- 
It was only in their subsequent written statement dated 20th August, 1970, they 
have stated that the claim for 15 National Festival Holidays made in the cese was 
applicable to the workers of the Wadi Stone Marketing Co., and as there Is no- 
claim the reference should be dismissed, Shri Kamat who appeared on behalf 
of the Stone Quarry and Polishing Workers’ Union has also supported the conten- 
tion of the employers that the workers had not made any demand about paid 
holidays and there is no dispute between the workers and the management In 
that respect. 

26. Shri Dharap on behalf of the Shahabad and Martur Stone Quarry Labour- 
ers and Employees Union has argued that in the year 1965 when the demands 
were made and the dispute was in conciliation proceedings the only union func- 
tioning in the area was the Shahabad and Martur Stone Quarry Labourers and 
Employees Union. The Stone Quarry and Polishing Workers Union was not 
also in existence. The management colluding with some of the aspirants and 
few workers have set up this union and with their help want to deprive the 
workers of the benefit of paid holidays. It has been further argued that the 
arguments advanced by the management that there is no dispute about paid holi- 
days and their workers do not want paid holidays is very strange and this cir- 
cumstance itself will prove that the union is set up by the management with a 
view to deprive the workers of the advantage. The Shahabad and Martur Stone 
Quarry Labourers and Employees Union though now a minority union function- 
ed during this period and has got every right to press the demand of the workers 
for paid holidays. 

27. In support of their contention the Shahabad and Martur Stone Quarry 
Labourers and Employees Union has examined Shri Bhimsha who was formerly 
working with the union as Secretary. He has stated that in the beginning the 
union members were from Shahabad and subsequently workmen from other places 
such as Wadi. Chittapur, Kurkunda also joined the union and there were 80 or 
90 members from Wadi Stone quarry. He has further stated that till he was 
Secretary no other union was functioning for the Wadi workers. However, this 
witness has not produced the registers and other records though promised. He 
had in his cross-examination undertaken to produce the registers in Court and 
lias failed to produce them and from this it can be adversely inferred that the. 
union is not representing a majority of the workers. 

28. However, it cannot be said that the union had absolutely no following 
among the Wadi workers. This witness has produced the letter of the Labour 
Officer, Gulbarga, dated l£th April, 1967, which letter shows that the Labour 
Officer had asked witness Bhimsha Gidappa, Secretary of the Union to meet the 
officer in the Guest House of the Associated Cement Cos. Ltd., Shahabad with 
the records and registers. From this it would be clear that Shri Bhimsha was 
the Secretary of the Union and the records were with him. The Union has also 
produced the following documents;— 

(1) Memorandum of settlement dated 10-11-1964 under scctkm 12(3) of 

the Industrial Disputes Act between the union and the Shahabad 
Stone Quarries Lease Holders’ Association In which the Wadi Stone 
Marketing Co. was represented. 

(2) Memorandum of settlement dated 7-1-1906 between the union and the 

companies including the Wadi Stone Marketing Co Ltd., before the 
R.L.C.(C), 

(3) Minutes of discussions ol the conciliation proceedings held under sec- 

tion 12 of the I.D Act. 1947 before th» Conciliation Officer (Central), 
Hyderabad on 9-4-1965. 

These documents clearly establish that the Shahabad and Martur Stone Quarry 
Labourers and Employees Union was functioning among the quarry workers, 
since befoie 1965 and had raised disputes on behalf of the workers including the 



Sec- 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 4 S 03 


Wadi workers. The documents show that the Wadi establishment had also enter 
ed into settlements with the Shahabad and Martur Stone Quarry Labour am 
Employees’ Union and the contention of the Wadi employees that this union hai 
absolutely no membership from their workers cannot be accepted. 

29, Shri Dharap on behalf of the Shahabad Stone Quarry Labourers and Em- 
ployees Union has submitted that by setting up the new union the management 
wants to convert this industrial dispute into a dispute between the unions and 
deprive the workers of the benefit of paid holidays. It is clear from the copy 
of the registration certificate of the Stone Quarry .and Polishing Workers’ Union 
that this union has been registered on 28th May, 1970 and it is recently formed. 
It has put in its first appearance in this reference on 20th August, 1970 and flr»t 
contended that they have not raised any dispute. It is contended that this new 
union is a continuation of the old union named ‘The Wadi Stone Marketing Com- 
pany Workers’ Union, However, they have not led any evidence and there ia 
no proof that the new union is the continuation of the old union. 


30. It is significant to note that the Wadi Stone Marketing Company Workers' 
Union which put in its appearance in this reference from the year 1906 has no- 
where stated that there was no dispute. But now and then the union made appli- 
cations that they were negotiating the matter. There were negotiations going on 
with the management and the reference should be adjourned. It is only after 
that union entered Into an agreement with the Wadi company in respect of the 
wage scale in the other reference No. 72|1905 and Shri Chandrasekhar’s union 
raised objections the inter union rivalry came openly on the surface and each 
union claimed the representative character and it is thereafter that the Stone 
Quarry and Polishing Workers’ Union came into existence and putting in its 
appearance first filed a written statement on 20th August, 1970 in which they 
have contended that they had never any dispute with the Wadi Stone Marketing 
Co. in the matter of the National and festival holidays and they had not also rais- 
ed any such demand. It Is not the case of the union or of the management that 
there is any agreement or settlement between them and the workers under which 
they have fixed the number of paid holidays. 

31. On the contrary the first written statement filed by Quarry Lease Holders’ 
Association on behalf of the company shows clearly that they did not give any 
paid holidays to their workers. I have already stated that some of the employers 
were the members of the Lease Holders Association and this Association had in 
the written statement stated they were granting their workmen holidays on Re- 
public Day and Independence Day and the only question was whether they should 
be paid for those two days which clearly shows that the employers who were 
members of the Association were not giving to their workmen any paid holidays. 
As the association had not in their written statement stated as to what employers 
were their members and on whose behalf they had filed the written statement 
subsequently notices were issued and the Association by their explanation receiv- 
ed in this office on 3rd August, 1970, stated that the written statement filed by 
the association in this reference was filed on behalf of such members of the asso- 
ciation who were parties to the reference. They have also given the list of mem- 
bers of the association and the Wadi Stone Marketing Co. Ltd., Is one of the mem- 
bers of the association. 

32. It should be also clear from the application submitted by the Wadi Stone 
Marketing Company itself on 19th August, 1970, when they requested to permit 
them to file their second written statement they have stated: — 

“The reply statement filed by the Secretary of the Shahabad Stone Quarry 
Lease Holders Association on 16th day of December, 1966 was filed 
on behalf of all its memberg including the present company viz,, 
Messrs. Wadi Stone Marketing Company Ltd.’’ 

and they further requested that it should be treated as superseded by the written 
statement, dated 3rd August, 1970, filed on 19th August, 1070 and it is clear that 
the Wadi Stone Marketing Company also has not been giving any naid holidays 
to their workers and the benefit of the final award will be available to the work- 
ers of that company also. It is clear from the evidence that when the Stone 
Quarry Labour and Employees Union raised disputes and made general demands 
about conditions of service against many managements Government included the 
Wadi company in the reference. The issue about paid holidays for the quarry 
Workers is of a general nature in which all quarry workers are interested. The 
circumstances clearly indicate that the Stone Quarry Labour and Employees' 



4 B04 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 16. 1971/HHADRA 27. 1893 [Paet II— 


Union had pome following among the Wadi Workers *nd was functioning. Re- 
cently it appears to have been reduced to a minority union. But even a mino- 
rity union has got a right to represent the workers and the workers can be bene- 
fited if the claim made by the minority union is accepted as all the workers will 
get the benefit o| this award. 


i 03. By the second part of the reference this Tribunal has been asked to decide 
the question about the number of such paid holidays in the year. The union has 
claimed 16 paid holidays as listed in their written statement. The association has 
On the contrary contended that the grant of 16 paid holidays would be beyond ail 
proportion. The industries in the region were not also granted 15 paid holidays 
to their employees. Even the larger and well established units were granting 
only 7 festival holidays per year. Shri Dharap on behalf of the union has argued 
that in the ruling reported in 1964 1 LLJ page 12 at page 15 (Associated. Cement, 
Co. Staff Union v. Associated Cement Co.) and 1963 1 LLJ page 643 at page 565 
[Pfizer (Pvt.) Ltd., Bombay .and their workmen] the Supreme Court had granted 
10 paid holidays to the industrial workers and the claim of the workers for 16 
holidays is proper. 

34. However, it cannot be disputed that the fixation of the number of paid 
holidays should he in accordance with the number of days fixed in comparable 
undertakings in the region. The management has produced the letter from the 
Associated Cement Cos. Ltd., Shahabad,. .dated 11th November, 1965, which shows 
that they were granting 7 paid holidays such as Republic Day, Ramzan Id, Inde- 
pendence Day, Dusserah etc. Similarly there is another letter from the Mahboob- 
shahi Kuliburga Mills Co. Ltd., which also shows that the workers are getting 7 
paid holidays. These concerns are also in the same region and in my opinion 
the grant of 7 paid holidays in a year to the workers concerned in Che present 
reference would be proper and I direct accordingly. Out of the 7 paid holidays 
the RepubHcDay and Independence Day should be granted by all the employers 
and the remaining five may be as mutually agreed between the workmen and 
the management. 


■ 36. The further question is from whet year the workers should get the benefit 
of the paid holidays. I have already stated that the employers keep their estab- 
lishments closed on the 15 holidays every year but they are not making any pay- 
ment to the workers for these holidays. The employers have below the applica- 
tion of the union, dated 19th August, 1970, made an endorsement and have admit- 
ted. that they are giving 15 holidays but without payment and the specific issue 
has been referred as to from what year the workers should be given the benefit 
of the payment. The union has claimed the benefit from the date of demand. 
However, considering the longstanding reference and the various adjournments 
sought and the circumstance that the workers have no benefits of casual leave, 
sick leave etc., it is reasonable that the workers should toe granted this benefit 
of payment from the date of the reference order. It was transferred to this Tri- 
bunal by Government order No. 36 11165-LR.I, dated 6th January, 1&66. Though 
the workers have enjoyed the holidays they have not received any payment and 
tiie managements are directed to pay the benefit of the 7 days holidays every 
year to the workers from January, 1966 within 30 days of the publication of this 
award in the official gazette. 


39. As regards costs the reference has been hotly co»t<wte<i. The workers’ 
representatives attended the proceedings both at Hyderabad and at Bombay on 
many occasions and in my opinion costs of Rs. 600 would meet the ends of justice. 
The employers Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4 and 8 mentioned in schedule 1 to the order of 
reference will pay Rs. 100 each as costs to the unions on record in the order of 
reference. 


A, T. Zambre, 
Presiding Officer, 

Central Government Industrial Tribunal. Bombay. 

[No. 36(11) /05-LRIV.] 

SX). 3417. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Centra] Government Industrial Tribunal (No, 1), Dhanbad, in the industrial dispute 
between the employers in relation to the management of Dhansar Colliery of Messrs 
The Pure Dhansar Coal Company. Post Office Dhansar, District Dhanbad and their 
workmen, "ditch was received by the Central Government on the 31st August, 1971. 




Sec. 3(H)] Ttffi GAZETTE OF INDIA-. SEPTEMBER 18, flSTl/BHADRA 27, 1893 4805 


BEFORE THE GENERAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL. DHANBAD 

In the matter of a reference under section 10(l)(d) of the Industrial Dispute* 
Act, 1917. 


Reference No. 20 of 1971 


Parties : 

Employers in relation to the mangement of DhanSar Colliery of M/s. The 
Pure Dhansar Coal Company, P.O. Dhansar, (Dhanbad), 

And 

Their -workmen represented by Colliery Ma 2 door Sangh, Branch Dhansar 
Colliery, C/o Sinha Bhawan Bastacolla. P.O. Dhansar, Dlstt. Dhanbad. 


Present : 

Sbrl A C. Sen, Presiding Officer. 

Appearance* . 

For the employers-— Shri S. K. Lodha, Partner. 

For the Workmen — Shri Lai a B. P. Slnha. 

State: Bihar Industry: Coal. 


Dhanbad, dated the 26 th August, 1971 


AWARD 

Ministry of Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment), 
Government of India, by its Order No. L, 2012(88)-71-LRII dated the 6th July, 1971, 
referred under section 10(l)(d) of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1047, an Industrial 
-dispute existing between the employers in relation to the management of Dhansar 
Colliery of Messrs The Pure Dhansar Coal Company, P.O. Dhansar, (Dhanbad) and 
their workmen in respect of the matter specified below to this Tribunal for adjudi- 
cation . 

"Whether the action of the management of Dhansar Colliery of Messrs The 
Pure Dhansar Coal Company, Post Office Dhansar, District Dhanbad, in 
stopping Shri Rablndra Nath Biswal, Attendance Clerk from work with 
effect from the 13th February, 1971 is justified? If not, to what relief 
is he entitled?” 


2. The workmen filed their written statement on 30th July, 1971 and the manage- 
ment filed their written statement-cum-rejoinder on 16th August, 1971. 


3. Shri S K. Lodha, Partner, appeared for the employers and Shri Lala B. P. 
Slnha, representative of the workmen, appeared for the workmen. Both the parties 
on 23rd August, 1971 filed a joint petition of compromise dated 23rd August, 1971 
and prayed that an award be made In terms of the said agreement. 


4. I have gone through the petition of compromise in which it is stated that 
the workman concerned, Shri R N. Biswal will be paid a sum of Rs. 500/- in full 
and final settlement of his claim against the management of Pure Dhansar Colliery. 
It is further stated in the petition of compromise that the workman will not claim 
reinstatement in his employment with the Pure Dhansar Colliery. 


'5, I have read and considered the above terms of the compromise and think 
they are fair and reasonable and in the interest of the parties and, therefore, 1 
accept the same and record the compromise and make an award on the basis of the 
terms of settlement contained in the petition for compromise, which do form part 
■of the award. 




4806 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 [Part II— 


6. Let a copy of this ward be submitted to the Central Government under sec- 
tion 13 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 


(Sd.) A. C. Sen. 

Presiding Officer. 


BEFORE THE HONOURABLE PRESIDING OFFICER 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO. 1) AT DHANBAD 

Reference No. 20 of 1971 


Parties : 

Employers In relation to the management of Dhansar Colliery of M/s. The 
Pure Dhansar Coal Company, P.O. Dhansar, Dlstt. Dhanbad. 

And 

Their workmen represented by Colliery Mazdoor Sangh, Branch Dhansai 
Colliery, C/o. Sinha Bhavap Bastacoiia, P.O. Dhansar, Dlstt. Dhanbad 

Terms oi settlement 

The parties concerned in the above matter, most respectfully beg to submit: 

That the parties have mutually discussed over the matter and settled the dispute 
on the following terms . 

1 n i s agreed that the mangement of Pure Dhansar Colliery will pay to Shr 
n Biswal the workman concerned a sum of Rs, 500/- (Rupees five hundred only 
in full and Anal settlement of his claim against the management of Pure Dhansai 
Colliery. 

2. It is agreed that the workman will not claim reinstatement in his employmen 
with the Pure Dhansai Colliery. 

.3. That the payment of the amount of Rs. 500/- (Rupees five hundred) as state; 
In para 1 above, will be made on 23rd August 1971, in the presence of Secretary 
Shri Lala B. P, Sinha, 

4. It is agreed tnat copy of this settlement will be filed before the Hon'ble Pre 
siding Officer, Cenaal Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 1) at Dhanbad. fo 
disposing of the adjudication proceedings pending before the said Tribunal in Refer 
ence No. 20 of 1971. 

6. It Is agreed that the parties will bear their respective cost of this proceedings 

That the parties pray that the Reference No. 20 of 1971 may kindly be dispersed 
of on the basis of the above terms of settlement between the patties. 


For the Employers 
S. K. Loth a, 

For Pure Dhansar Coal Co. 
Partner. 


For the Workman 
Lala B. P. Sinha, 
For Colliery Mazdoor Sangb 
Branch Dhansar Colliery, 
Secretary. 

[No. L/2012/88/71-LRTI.i 




Sec. 3 ( ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 4807 


New Delhi , the 9th September 1671 

S.O. 8418, — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Industrial Tribunal, Bangalore in the industrial dispute between the 
employers in relation to the management of Messrs R. B. Seth Shreeram Durga- 
prasad and Fatechand Narasingdas, Sankalapuram Mine, Post Box No. 38, Hospet, 
Bellary District and their workmen, which was received by the Central Govern- 
ment on the 28th August, 1071. 

BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL IN MYSORE, BANGALORE 
Dated the 23 rd August 1971 

Present : 

Sri Narayan Rai Kudoor, B,A.,B.L., Presiding Officer. 

Reference No. 5 of 1971 (Central) 

I Party : 

The workmen of M/s. R. B. Seth Shreeram Durgaprasad and Fatehchand 
Narasingadas, Sankalapuram Mine. P.B. No. 38, Hospet, Bellary 
District. 

Vs. 


II Party : 

(a) The Management of M/s. R.B. Seth Shreeram Durgaprasad and Fateh- 

ehand Narasingadas, Sankalapuram Mine, P.B. No. 38. Hospet, Bellary 
District. 

(b) Sri G- Vadivelu and 5 others. Contractors, c/o The Agent, M/s. jR. B. 

Seth Shreeram Durga Prasad and Fatehchand Narasingadas, Sankala- 
puram Mine P.B. No. 38, Hospet, Bellary District. 

Order of Reference 

(Government Order No. 8(24)/70-LR-IV dated 3/4-3-1971) 

AWARD 

The Central Government, by its Order of refernce No. 8 (24) [70-LR-IV dated 
3/4-3-1971 has referred an industrial dispute existing between the Employers in 
relation to the Management of Messrs, R. B. Seth Shreeram Durga Prasad and 
Fatehchand Narasingadas, Mine Owners, Hospet and G. Vadivelu and 5 others, 
contractors, Sankalapuram Iron Ore Mine and their workmen, in exercise of the 
powers conferred by Section 7(A) and clause (d) of Sub-Section (1) of Section. 
10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, (XIV of 1947) to this Tribunal for adju- 
dication on the following point of dispute: — 

“Whether the management of R. B. Seth Shreeram Durga Prasad and Fateh- 
chand and Narasingadas, Mine Owners, Hospet or their Contractors 
namely: Sarvashri ( 1 ) G. Vadivelu. (2) Pacbgppa (Hi) B, M. Setty (Iv) 
Kullayappa (v) Shreemathi Munlyamma and (vi) Smt. Ameenabi are 
responsible to implement the recommendations of the Central Wage 
Board for Iron Ore Mining Industry to the piece rated workmen, said 
to be employed through the abovenamed contractors in their Sankala- 
puram Iron Ore Mine, Hospet? If so, to what relief are the workmen 
entitled and against whom?” 

2. On receipt of the above Reference, it was taken on file as Central Reference 
No. 5 of 1971, The workmen represented by the President, Industrial and General 
Labour Union. Hospet, Bellary District, is the I Party. The Management of Messrs. 
R. B. Seth Shreeram Durgaprasad and Fatehchand Narasingadas Sankalapuram 
Mine and Sri G. Vadivelu and 5 others contractors are II Party (A) and (B) res- 
pectively. 

3. Notices were issued to the parties, The I Party workmen and the II Party — 
A, the Management, have sent separate written intimations stating that the matter 
in dispute under reference was amicably settled between the workmen and the 
management and the proceedings may be dropped. Among the II Party — B, one of 
the contractors by name, Vadivelu has sent his statement denying his liability to 
Implement the recommendations of the Central Wage Board for Iron Ore Mine 
Industry to the piece rated workmen. 

4. The effect of the representations sent by the I Party — workmen and the Mana- 
gement is that the demand raised by the workmen covered under the Order of 



4808 THE GAZETTE QE INDIA; SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADBA 27 , 1893 [Part H— 


(Eelemece Is not pressed by the workmen tor a decision at the hands of this Tribu- 
nal. That being the case, there is no need to consider the plea put forward by 
one of the contractors In his statement, that he la not liable to implement the 
recommendations of the Central Wage Board. In view of the stand taken by the 
workmen and the Management, the reference is liable to be rejected. 

6. In the result, I posses an Award rejecting the Reference. 

0. Under the circumstances, I make no order as to costs. 

Narayan Rai Kunooit, 
Presiding Officer. 

[No. 8 (24) / 70-LR-IV.} 


New Delhi, the 14 th September 1971 

S.O. 3419.— Whereas an Industrial dispute exists between the employers in rela- 
tion to the management of East Nlmcha Colliery, Post Office Jaykuynagar, District 
Burdwan (hereinafter referred as the said Company) and their workmen represented 
by the Colliery Mazdoor Congress (HMP), Ushagram, Asansol, District Burdwan 
(hereinafter referred to as the said Union). 

And whereas the said Company and the said Union have by a written agree- 
ment in pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 10A of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), agreed to refer the said dispute to arbitration 
of the person specified therein and a copy of the said arbitration agreement has 
been forwarded to the Central Government. 

Now therefore, in pursuance qf the provisions of sub-section (3) of the section 
10A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the said arbitration agreement. 

AQreement 

(Under Section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947) 

Between 


Name of the Parties : — < 

Representing the employers— Sh r i H. C. Saini, Agent, East Nlmcha Colliery, 
P.O. Jaykaynagar, District Burdwan. 

Representing the workmen* — Shrl Vlnay Kumar. Joint Secretary, Colliery 
Mazdoor Congress (HMP), Ushagram, Asansol, District Burdwan. 

It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following Industrial ^disputes 
to the arbitration of Shrl O. Venkatachalam, Chief Labour Commissioner (Central), 
New 'Delhi. 

(i) Specific matters in dispute: — 

“Whether the management of East Nimcha Colliery Post Office Ja Tkay- 
nagar. District Burdwan is justified in making deduction of wages 
for 9 days during week ending 19th June, 1971 from the workers 
employed in Pit JSTos. 2. 3 and 4 of their colliery under the proviso 
to Section 9(2) of Payment of Wage3 Act, 1936 and the rules framed 
thereunder? If not. to what relief are the workmen concerned entitl- 
ed?" 

(li) Details of the parties to the dispute including the 

Estfs. or undertaking involved. — East Nlmcha Colliery P.O, 7 7 

nagar, Dlstt Burdwan. 

/i f; \ isT nrnp 0 f the Union, if any representing the workmen in question 
( ) N Colliery Mazdoor Congress (HMP). Ushagram, Asansol Dlstt. 
Jj\yrd pr ai} 

(iv) Total number of workmen employed in the under-taking affected. -2800. 

(v) Estimated Number of workmen affected or likely to be affected by the 

dispute. — About 1400. 

We further agree that the decision of the arbitrator shall be binding on us. 

The arbitrator shall make his award within a period of six 
such further time; as is extended by mutual agreement between us in writing. In 




Sec. 3(li)] THE GAZETTE OF INOlA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 4809 


case the award Is not made within the period aforementioned, the refemece to 
arbitration shall stand automatically cancelled and we shall be free to negotiate 
for fresh arbitration. 

Signature of the parties. 
(Sd.) H. C. Saint. 

24-8-71. 

Representing the employers. 
(Sd.) Vinay Kumar. 

24-8-71. 

Representing the workmen. 

Witness : 

1. Illegible, 

24-8-71, 

2. Illegible, 

24-8-71. 

[No. L/1013/11/71-LR.II.] 

(«m MY* TftPTTT ftniFT) 

foMY, 14 1971 

VI o Wt o 3 4 1 9 . — 4 RT 1 f^n-^T MY%rfY, •sT c r ^4 "FIT, fM'riT d'Jdid ( 

5 TT 5 'J'td M PiifiHd' 1 %TT IRIT M IJ - M Pi Ml 4 1 "1 MYt 

>pfcfrrcf M frnm tiP-w (Y (tT^ otniot^o) ^rr mm, 

wdWl<s, f^MI sTPf 'J'rb ^Pimo % EN M f*CTT ■‘(■Ml mTift 

& f*p MlMYPi«h form fwmm 1 ; 

MY* ’FT: TFT PfMwMT Mk % M^-PlPim pETO? JlfafWE, 1947 (l947 

mT 1 4) MY ottt 1 c-^J swer ( 1) % S'FFMf % M fHfirr *fRR 

5ttt sw fmrrc MY sbM ^rf&icr surfer %■ mresrRim % fwx Wftra- «tkY «pt ;trr ftrrr 
^ Mk ^ RietTP^ *rr MY srfm *r»pr Mt MMY $ ; 

*RT, 5R, MlMlPlI. f^TR ETfilfdtrtT, 1947 (1947 W 14) MY ERT 10-tf 
MY ^tort ( 3) % iwtff % spjftct M, M??{k etfr wr etrifw, ttr Mt, t*d^ 5 r<T 
SFfnftRT *?rMY I I 

(MknfmK fmrR ^rftrf^nTTT, 1 947 MY «kt 1 o-<f M wfk) 

mTR 

’ESPFRf % ’TRT : 

PiMWi W vlldfdTwtd ^ : MY tr? o MY o M 4 I, VlPH^'Vlf, Pi-mT 

MtfMTkY, SRT*R MMRIR, fw 

diMtiiCf <pt ^■PrPifMR sRd dm MY f^nd j-h i <, Ef^rr, MiP-rixY, 

*Rr?T TtMm o itit o <f|- 0 ) OTnjirr, 
’HKinMm, HjiMI wtTPT I 

'tceprY M MYx fHHfttfeT MYMYPtc fwr MY I'd'^aru' MY Mt o MMdum-K , ijwp 
m i foMY % RUdRm % failed «frrM w ttht fw w 1 1 

1. irffl : "w MlP-td -ft 1 , M%- 

iVt, %rr «t 4 ain M w 

*R^t ^TRR tI%PwtT, 1936 MY 



4810 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 [Part H— 


STITT 9(2)% RT^ sfft REffa 

EETR RR fEREt % RlftE Sftpft iftfarEfr 

qft ft? eert 2, 3 sfk 4 Jr ft'EtfEE 

RTfer'Ct % 19-6-1971 ERTET 

41% EEFT^ % s^ftlE 6 ftr RiTjft' 
«fi^reft rttet nrFftfer | ? Eft e$t 
rft REfsjR 9T»ftET ftrR REEft % ?V4TT 

| ?" 


(2) ftETC % TOT) ITT TT ftETE, fEE4 

EflMH’ ET T9 TH «pr RTR R*l < 
ret tft EfanftTE | 

(3) Eft Rift RE ST^TOcT *P%rff RTF Rft- 
ftftlTR RTTET eft TREE ETR 

( 4 ) sTRifEE ^ err J f fEEtftrE *fnftrrrf r>Y 

w 

(s) ftRTR gro sHnftw et rfri^rf; 
srmftr fft rt% 4 nft?rcf srftRnw 
RERT 

54 Rj| RHH Sfft RTlft I ft R«REE W fEfETEE fR RT RT43: RfT ?TET I 

RtRF-T RRET RETT EJ: RTR gERTEfE RT TEE sfft r RRR % tfftlT ET ^Rft 
sfftf R V T F T pRfr fRfer «F7TT 5 TTT EETET ETR, ftlT I Rft 3 ;# 4fEE RTrRTRftr % vffaT 
RETE R^f ftRT ETET Et RT^RERR % ftfF[ fEER 4RR: T^ fr ETEET Rft: £R 4% RFERERR 
% ftTIT RRHfft 4H% 4?t 44E3T ^N? I 


i& fRPRr RtR-RfF, W9 T ^wr, f%RT 
RftlE I 

R^tftfR^t RE^T REER (t^E o RE o <ft o) 
ERTETE, ^TERETE, ftlRT EtETE I 

2800 

1 RERE 1400 


Rrefr 

1 . ?o — «rcw 
24-8-1971 


2 . 50 — 5TRPE 
24-8-1971 


qwnrf % $Rrrar, 


50 — 47 R 0 ifto M 
24-8-71 

fEEtEET *T RftftftfrR REE ET% 

ftnr $rtt 
24-8-71 

RRftiTTT 4E SrftftftTET ET% 


[Esin RRo/l913/ll/71-RRo RTTo-21 




Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27 , 1893 48 II 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 28 th May 1971 

S.O. 3420. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Kotma 
Colliery of Associated Cement Company Limited, Post Office Kotma. District 
Shahdol (Madhya Pradesh) and their workmen in respect of the matters specified 
in the Schedule hereto annexed. 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication. 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section 
(1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Gov- 
ernment Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur, constituted under section 7A of the said 
Act. 

Schedule 

“Whether the action of the management of Kotma Colliery of Associated 
Cement Company limited, Post Office Kotma Colliery, District Shahdol, 
Madhya Pradesh, in not placing the following 14 pump drivers, who 
operate more than one pump of 35 HP or above, in category IV, with 
effect from the 15th August, 1967, as per the Recommendations of the 
Central Wage Board for Coal Mining Industry as contained in Appen- 
dix V, Volume II, is justified? If not, to what relief the workmen 
concerned are entitled and from what date?” 

Names of the workmen 


1. Shrl S. N. Mishra Pump Drver. 

2. „ Ramgopal 

3. ” Rajaram ” 

4. J5 Ramnarain ,, 

5. „ Rampromode . 

6. Lurjhur 

7. ” Ramcharit ” 

8. " Kailashnath 

9. ” Budha ,. 

10. ” Jai Singh ........ 

11. ,, A. C. Chakraborty „ 

12. " Ncgiram ........ 

13. ” Gangaram ........ " 

14. ” Ramujagr ” 

TNo. 1/16/79 LR.II.l 

wrtir 

fft fwi, 29 trf, 1 9 7 1 J 

3420 — tier: d WK ^ TRT | fafdfe 

far q-q-'f % dTf $ STWr TfcRT VtftpkV, fdHl 

Hpridr, (hw snrvr ) ^ ^Vtt k hws fajfkrarf irk 

wpkf % sfkr trjp sfhftfw fa^rr? t ; 

irk vt: ki JTprfRofaR^ 1%<j fafftnr tttt 

RRiRfrt ; 

ircr:, inr, srVrkPfi farpr ¥rfafHiPT, 1947 (1947 i4)jtftsrn:r lo^swrcr (1 ) 

% (d j 5 kt 44 cd vif*tci*rf w Jprkr 4, id gv, 1 <r 

kr Hfd vfafdhTT # trnr 7 -t % v^kr »rfW %dfkr tor nkftfw srftmvr 
OTCHtJT ^ % fHV spTffY | 1 



4812 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 1R, 15T1/BHADRA 27, 1993 [PkRT H— 


"fUT irWff T^Fft fwfrras, ?mi tbrt ^ rtfard , f^ren 

tr«r srw 'Ptftnr^r rwsw % fdHfafad 1 4 tt 

*fit, Tf 3 3 t^-ocfto 3TT T 3Tr¥P trftPtf Trfw % tup |f trffcw 'f’T 
w?r | ^'twr *apr ssfta ?n^sfV %^W R^rfr *rW H\ fimf^T % 
5p|?nT 'jft qfcfrreV, & is ?roi i967 ^r spiff IV 

if ?T Wf *pt sppf^t TJTTjflf^r | ? 

trfcT|t, trt n*-<nr-iiFTTff«Bn fa*rwfi;dt*r% sflr fan ureter % ^it |? ” 


ITRVlft wi HTTTT 


1 «ft trR° tTrf o frr^r ..... 'll ^TW 

2 sft TRiftH^T ..... 

3 sft iMITPT ...... " 

s «ft tpt trmte ..... “ 

6 sftHSfT ...... 

7 «fr vrH^rfVrr ..... 

8 sft$*mnTT«T ..... “ 

9 sff^srr ...... 

10 «ft^rfn5 • 

11 «fTiro #0 . 

12 sftjfrftrm ...... " 

13 sft^UTW 

14 fnr 

[R° l/76/70-IT?ToWTTo-2] 
New Delhi, the 14 th June 1971 

S.O. 3421. — Whereas the Central Government Is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Chasnalla 
Colliery of Messrs Indian Iron and Steel Company Limited, Post Office Pather- 
dih. District Dhanbad, Messrs P.ohlig-Heckel-Bleichert Vereinigte Maschinen- 
fabrike Ag. Ropeways and Mechanical Handling Plants, Post Office Patherdih, 
District Dhanbad and Messrs P.S, Golan and Company, Care of Chasnalla Col- 
liery, Post Office Patherdih, District Dhanbad and their workmen in respect of 
-the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Cen- 
tral Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 1), Dhanbad, constituted under sec- 
tion 7A of the said Act. 

Schepule 

“Whether the demand of the following workmen for payment of wages In 
accordance with the recommendations of the Central Wage Board for 
Coal Mining Industry as accepted by the Government of India is 
justified? If so, — 

(a) the relief to Which the workmen are entitled; 

(b) the date from which they are entitled to the relief; and 




tfec. 3T(fl)I THE GA2ETTR OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER IS, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 4813 . 


(c) is the relief to be claimed from the management of the Chasnalla- 
Colliery of Messrs Indian Iron and Steel Company Limited or from 
Messrs Pohlijr-Heckel-Bleichert Vereinigte Maschinenfabrike Ag. 
Ropeways and Mechanical Handling Plants and Messrs P.S. Golan, 
and Company?” 


S. No. 


Name of the workmen 


Designation 


x. Shri Darwara Singh 
2. Shri Mahesh Prasad 
3- Shri Gauri Shankar 

4. Shri Surcndra Singh 

5. Shri S. N. Pandey 

6. Shri Nitya Singh 

7 . Shri Ranvir Singh 

8. Shri Swar Singh 

9 . Shri Md. Khalil 

10. Shri Shakti Pado Modi 

11. Shri Jodh Singh 

12. Shri Md. Idris 

13. Shri P. S. Marma 

14 . Shri Gaulka Singh 

15. Shri Chandra Yadav 

16. Shri S. K. Ahmed 

17. Shri Kamati Singh 


Mechanical Fitter. 


I> 

It 

Exp. fritter 
Fitter 

Welder’ G. Cutter 

M. Finer 
Watchman 

Mechanical Fitter 
Watchman 


[No. 2/162/70-LRII]. 

^ ftwft, 14 1971 

"mo wio342i — S ri: %Rffar mam: tpt % % wit swra if 

^ FftH ^WEft "hlftFlfr, FW 

srwrw #Clfwd rtRwt qiirnFF 

Om<W l^-S ^Sf^FT sI'fi'H < Rd trl | ER4K Htitf 4to 0 

hPH tFT ^vPpft RTfid' ^RFTPTT £l, Rteil &M4I4 5TWT & 

?flT =t>*OtiT'0 % ^ fWFFT ^ ; 

nYc W: ET'FTT dTA h ( n u I*M % Riv fiRftRT “t» <*1 1 qiwflB 

J tl M 

RRfpft I ; 

SRI:, tR, 1947 ( 1947 371 14) "fttsJKr 10 «f?t ^JTETCI 

( l) (*T) ST7T 5TW ’frPffpff 37T SPfPl TTtt % f sffa‘ PRf>R 3W IVdTO 

:3W SrRjRPHT 3 ?t t(Kl 7-37 % ^ did *lfdRf RTipn: Wl«lRl i t> trfipFW (ffo 1 ) 

EPETTC 'Ft fBFlfR^FFT ^ f*F{ f^ftliT 37 T^t | I 

FIT Rt Rn Ra ci ti *R> 1 <4 3 ?t, HI i-ti ET’f'TT 3 TCT t 3 Ti*T -Sjiyt J 1 RKREft 

%7sfpT JRtjft 5ff3 3?t IwfM % SPJETT, % E3PT 3>t IRFFft <tft EYt RR tfc l § ? 
Bft $T, tft — 

( 37 ) wfr fspR % wn f ; 

(w) t fm Etfta it w^ftY $ 





4814 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; SEPTEMBER IS, 1971/BHADRA 21, 1893 [Part IT— 


(it) wt sfjcTH tt rtct r'btt 'Pirr wrttT ^ TPpfr frrffrJ? dfr rts? 

REST Ttfrrrfr % TTRETR^JH fr TT RR# 'frsfsTT^T 

RTfTRRR yppr tT;y ir%fdW fjfvPT 'wTT^T 5ftT RRR 'fro 

U *i o <i |e)r| ms RTPpfr fr fdTRT •Jl 1 ? " 

‘Rill fro 

RnpffR TT RPT 


1 

sfrTPTmfrTf 

fr^fRTvT Pli'i < 

2 

‘sfrRfrtfT SHIFT 

« ■ n 

3 

sfrifrfrTTTT; 

• ■ J) 

4 


■ • fJ 

5 

’ifr^TTo OpTo 'THf 

• • n 

6 


* « ti 

7 

>sfrT7PifKffr5 

• ■ ii 

8 


. . TJTfT To 

9 


. , Phi < (feTT 

10 

Nt iflPtd Mi4~l frlfr 

• i ; 

11 

1> -fr TfiR ffrlj 

. . ReSTofro <. 

12 

«frij^Tf?fsr¥r . 

• • ft 

13 

<sfr<frotTRoRrtrf . 

. , IPTo PtiiT 

14 

’sfriffrfTTfr^ 

RlfrTK 

15 

«fr rtt rtcr 

1 ♦ >f 

16 

^friTRo To 5T1RR 

. . Phi<, 

17 

>sfr TUTlfr frl? . 



[fr° 1/162/70-^05^0-2] 


New Delhi, the 6th July 1971 

S.O. 3422. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers In relation to the management of Hlrakhun 
Colliery, Post Office Netyria, District Purulia, and their workmen in respect oi 
the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, threfore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub sectior 
(1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Centra) 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Govern- 
ment Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, constituted under section 7A of the said Act, 

SCHEDTTtE 

‘‘Whether the action of the management of Hirakhum Colliery, Post Office 
Neturla, District Purulia in dismissing Sri Panchanan Banerjee, Lamr 
Chargeman, with effect from the 6th February, 1971 is justified? 11 
not, to what relief is the workman concerned entitled?" 

CNO. L-1912/67/71-LR.II.] 



Sec- 3(ii)I THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 197I/BHADRA 27, IS93 48 x 5 


e! ftcEt, e EEif, 1971 

TfTo 3422. — EE: %EftE ET+T< "Ft TFT | fo ^9% EEIE® SPjg^Y 
E fafafosE fadET ^ Jr ^tTTEE TTtfwfr, HRR ^jfW, f^TET TEfEET % 
EE^it tree fTmrrf trt7EE% TE^Rt e sftE ee wftftfw fEETT fEEETE | ; 

Sfk ET: %^T7 EWT EEE fEETE E> ?ETEfEEEE % fEE fE?fEE ERET 

EhiSotE ^ ; 

EE: m, EtalfEET fEETE EflfftEE, 1947 (l947 ET 14) # ETRI 10 
"(ft OTHT ( l) % ST¥ (e) TKT ETE TTpEHlf TO TTEr "FRt ^ %EftE TREET 
t[E58.'Rr eee Petr: Et Efafwr Eft tnrr 7 -e % snftE Efer %Effa trek 
eWiPtit wftr"R% wm Eft rtePt^tt % PtIPto EEcft | i] 

ETT ^PCT^fft *h l pH ^ Pi 1 ETESR I , pJETT yiftTET % 5TEET OSH "fit 

aft 'tETEE EEaff, yRE EFif^E "(ft 6 ETGTft, 1971 ¥T TR Zj E 
"FTE E?t ETnf^n^t RTEtfEE | ? 5TpX Eft , E> IREfaTE R T ER pfT 
E^EtE ET PER $ ? " 


[Eo^Eo 19 1 2/67/7 T^E^ERo II] 


New Delhi, the 26 th July 1971 

8.0. 3423. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Nowrozabad Colliery of 
Associated Cement Company Limited. Post Office Nowrozabad Colliery, District 
Shahdol (Madhya Pradesh) and their workmen in respect of the matters specified- 
in the Schedule heretp annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-sec- 
tion (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur, constituted under section 7 A of ihe 
said Act. 


Schedule 

"Whether the seven paid festival holidays granted by the management of 
Nowrozabad Colliery of Associated Cement Company Limited, Post Office Now- 
rozabad Colliery, District Shahdol, to their workmen should count as days of 
attendance under the terms of authorised leave under section 25(B) of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 for the purpose of payment of lay-off compensation? If 
so to what relief the workmen who have not been paid lay off compensation are 
entitled?" 

[No. 1/51/70-LR.IL] 


E ^ ft^ft 2 6 19 71 

VToWIo 3423. — EE: %EftEEWR "iff TTE f f~E SETTE E H-ft ’ 
fans fhEEf % ET^ if rcfrfEE^E tftrfc sprqyft fE i% tg SFRR Et d ET 3 T K EtfEEft 
Ret TJT?[irtE (exeS^E) "Ft iq I ^ EitfEu ct It EM-s fEEtw^f Tit y EE^T , 4 r M ( 1 
tftEI[E 5tVtf*TE fEETE f"TOETE $ ; 




4816 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 [Part II— 


tfft: to: tor to fwr t fair M'fro «pw Tterfar 

IlWcfl % ; 

to: to fronr ^rfaftro 1947(1947*5114)^ etrt lo’rl’gv- 

tTRT (l) %WTTf (*) ^ KTO Slf^i W RTdfR irfl^'iTRT TO 

f*ww ^ gw wfafaro ^ etrt 7 -^ $ tuffr gfsd ?ttor ?fanfw wfsrw«r 

tovtjt; apt wjwMto % fa?ftw ^fr | 1 

snjgit 

"wr qglfvrtf^r ?fi% wrot f'tffoJjr ttw: dlttarww wfard, fror 
wt^^tw ^ jftrhrraw % jpto tto iri to% «t3f«pRf «pt fspi? 
gi? gw w^tig tjrw to^ftet fwf % sifwR % ijww %■ fsirr tfiiflfw> 

fww trftifdTO, 1 9 4 7 *Ft b ki 25(st) % <tb^ srrftry^r ^jt % fw^i'fTr % * t^?tr 
grfRrft-% frof % 57 g ftpfr gpft ^nfetr v $t, eft wfw < fsr^ 

% iHtrr *ft 'jwf wr, fro % ^ ? f^R-? ? 

|R° 1/51/7 0-^0 !IRo-2] 


New Delhi, the 4th August 1971 

S.O. 3424. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to themanagement .of the Andhra 
Cement Company Limited, Vljaywada and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exeroise of the powers conferred by section ZA and clause 
(d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), 
the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with Shri T. 
Chandrasekhara Reddy, as the Presiding Officer with headquarters at Hyderabad 
and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Industrial Tribunal. 

Schedule 

Whether the action of the management of Messrs Andhra Gement Company 
Limited, Vijayawada, in paying to the re-employed workers of Jayan- 
thipuram mines wages lower than those they were drawing at the 
time of their retrenchment in June, 1988, is justified? If not, to what 
relief are the workmen entitled? 


UNO. L-29011/13/71-LR-IV.] 


Tffowft, 4 TOW 1971 

wo wo 3424 . — to: rwjr tfi rm | fV gqT«nff 

5r faftfce fimf JrTOtnftSfe fwpwwi % jpw # 

MWf wfwff % *ffa ^ tftartfro ftwrr Prtrrt f; 

*flr w: %7jftir ’rrt ^w f*rro nft % fTO frfftw to 

at+HJRfYn trwft § i 

TO: TO, tfaftfTO fWlT srftTftTO, 1947 (1947 W 14) «fft STRT 7 
STRT 10 TWRl ( l) % m (T) 5RT TOTT wfapfi W TO>T sFRT 
TWR ITTWRT srftRRoT fTfed W# $ 




SBC. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF 'INDIA: SEPTEMBER IS, Wrl/BHADRA 27, 1-893 ^giy 


«ft #to Qrj f fr rr trft fapm vjiwm t^rarc swr *ftr swer fam* -*> <3 »rt 
dtfftfw flfEIWT *F> *mi faofrpT % faffsTTT •FTlft £ | 

U 

“w ifdtf w^tr #t% •pi»dfr , ftwrm % sprar *fw *?r ’srtf- 

JTdJTTTdT % ^frl^ r Jptwff ^ 3Jd, 1968 3 ddqfT iMt 

% ddd -ftp^ drat *nr^€t % w wruftf^rr 

$? dfad^T «t ffar^R fafTCT Snjdtd % |WRt? 

[#0 t^To 2901 l( 13 )/ 71 -^To TTRo 4] 

S.O. 3425.— Wheraas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
■dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Goa Quarry, 
Mapusa, Goa owned by Shri M.D. Sawkar and thalr workman in respect of the 
matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section 
(1) df section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Gov- 
ernment Industrial Tribunal (No, 2) Bombay constituted under Bection 7A of the 
said Act. 

Schedule 

“Whether the action token by the management of Goa Quarry, Mapusa Goa 
owned toy Shrl M. D. Sawkar in terminating the services of Shri 
Atmaram Bhau More, Ex-Crusher on the 3rd August, 1970 was justi- 
fied? If not, to what relief is the workman entitled?’’ 

[No- L-29012/13/71-LRIV.] 

*T° Wfo 3425 , — W: RW* if! TPT $ f% *d?T dqTJTff WTg^ft 

^ fd'Tqt % sft if aft trrro dto dTST«frT # jfWr RFJdT, tfl^r % 

ws d draii ftrJTtsfTt sfhr tfteftfw faernr twora $; 

sflt W: %' ; ift E r dWT fadlT •Ft ;qw frofad % fat fa?fad TTfiT 

dto^td dwft | ; 

?Td: 'irkrritrv fadre wfsriwr, 1 947 (1947 *ft 14) # trnr 10 

^ j'Tffirr (1) % (d) jrrr sttet wfaddt difar tot d wr < 

'fa’TSTTT fadTT Tt dfcT 9TTT 7^ ^ *nftd dfST %dftd TOI 

tftsflfw dfiiwr (dw 2) draf vt % fat fH^fwd sr^fr 1 1 

"5RT «ft trrro dT«l+'< *Ft dtdT dl^dT, *ffaT % SPFR TOT ^?t 

«ft wr^KTfl' dra dtr, w: aft famt 3 tprra, 1970 ¥t 
wr?r dfar *fr w.nfargi ;Qiqtfa<T «rt ? zrfr , fa fad 
w-fd’ot ?^nc| ? 

[do 290 12/1 3 / 7 1 -^do dTTo 4 ] 

New Delhi, the 1 2th August 1971 

8,0. 3426. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Messrs 
Kalyanpur Dime and Cement Works Limited, Banjari and their workmen in res- 
pect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 




4 8i8 the Gazette of indiai September is, 1971/bhadra 27, 1893 [Part ii- 


And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-sec- 
tion (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947). the Cen- 
tral Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 2) Dhanbad constituted under section 7A 
of the said Act. 

Schedule 

“■Whether the action of the management of Messrs Kalyanpur Lime and 
Cement Works Limited, Banjari on the 2nd August, I960 was justi- 
fied in not allowing Shri Usman Mian on duty after recovery from 
accident? .If not, to what relief is the workman entitled?” 

[No. 36(13) /68-LR-I V.J 

R. KUNJITHAPADAM. Under Secy. 

5 T$ fawft, 12 1971 

Wfo 3426 — tET: ET+'TC ^ TUT £ % R 

1*mf % srrt 3r tfnif ^fpr itut srw fwfiRr, % seest irwri 

fjpftam srk fwiET | ; 

?ftT qR: RTFR ^RT ^ fvUTfhTcT TTTT 

?et: wt, 'uViifrr ftw wfaf^FTR, 1947 ( 1947^ 14) lOTi^Ttnrr 

( 1 ) % (u) am itch wfwtff ’rt seM gtr, 

Tt wTstPeut urt 7-^ % wfrr ufer rurr sfartfe Erffpfrwr (ro 2) 
KEPTR *it ^prfTJftEr % fwq PprftRf *?R?ft | I 

'Vrr =6RrRpyr try Meet, *hrr> It tpr r<rh, ^ 

'dfihT'i IflUT ^SRRTT it ^t^ai 5TFR <4 % 4|<; WR <R 

2 spurt, 1 9 6 0 1 i 'RiRtfRR «ft ? *rfw "Ti-fy t*ttr f*PR ?jr<t)r 

m fwrr | ?” 


[HWT 36( 13)/68-^Ho NR0-4] 
RRo fRtRPTCR, RRT RfRR i 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 4th August 1971 

S.O. 3427. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
The Selected Baraboni Coal Company Private Limited, 18, Netaji Subhas Road, 
Calcutta-1 have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds 
and Family Pension Fund Act, 1962 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of 
section 1 of the said Act t the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the thirty first 
day o i July, 1969. 

[No. S. 35018/12/71-PF. II (i) .] 




Sec. 3(il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 189 a 481 ; 


(*TR Xtmn fRRTR) 

fif fepRt, 4 TO, 1971 

Rf.'o WE-' 34 2 7. — ZEE RRFR! Rf RcftR ftRT | % s> fR^for? 

RTRtRr w rurri snr-is W&'zx 1 a, RRFRt ?jrn tV, rirtot- i rtr-v prrr % rrto 
fTq->3r^ ?fh: ^(f^rfT?fr dir r|rsrt t?i rict it RfRR ft nt | f% rrfrk, r^rr ftfa irk 
f irsr rrr Met R fafRRR, 1 9 5 2 ( 1 9 5 2 RR 19)% rrrrj rrr to T t rtr foij sn^r 
^rffir; 

SIR:, SR, RRR STfafRRR' Rit RRT 1 Rf TRUITT ( 4 ) 5KT RTR TlffcWt 'FT RRR TOT 
frr RTR7[T RR rMrRE % TWR RR PRTRR Rit T^fTTT Reft | | 

Rf SffagRRT 196 9 W-\ RRrf % SRflRR fed Rl 5RTT gt RRift TREt I 

[RRRT ^R9350 1 8 ( 1 2)/? l-"fto^Ri° 2(i)] 

S.O. 3428. — In exercise of the powers conferred by first proviso to section 6 of 
the Employees' Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1052 (19 of 
1952), the Central Government, after making necessary enquiry into the matter, 
hereby specifies with effect from the 31st July, 1969 the establishment known as 
The Selected Barabom Coal Company Private Limited, 18, JVetaji Subhas Road, 
Calcutta-1 for the purposes of the said proviso. 

[No. S. 35018/12/71-PF. II (ii) .] 

TTo Wfo 3428. — TuftR RTRTT RiRTlfr RfRR ffrfsr sfk f TR ?WR ffifu 

srFsrfRRR, 1952 ( 1952 RT 19) W<\ WITT 6 R SRR uwp- arrr rpt srPmt rt TTPT 

31^^, 1969^^ 

sfter r^rt srr^fj is, fidnft spur tre, rttrutt-i, w wm rT t^stt 

3R=T TRJR % RR'tRRt % f<RT Wfe RTcft | I 

[Ro T^To 35018(l2)/71-TtoCTTo- 2ii))] 


S.O, 3429.— Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Garkals Private Limited, A-416, Defence Colony, New Delhi-3 have agreed 
that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of 
section 1 of the said Act. the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first dav of 
July, 1970. 

[No. S. 35019 (40) /71-PF. II (1) J 

WTo 3 42 9 . — W. RpftR RTRR R> Rg SfiftsT ftdT % fo'tf R# VpjRR 
TT'f T f TffiTT, tT -41 6 , RRRtdt, Rf RRrt -3 RTRR FRTRR ?T RH 2 T fRRtRR rVt 

RRRifRT Rt Rf Ru-rr ^R RR RT RgJR g> R^ £ ff RcfRTTt RfRR fRfR sfa gjR RRR 
FRFuufjfRRR 1952 ( 1952 RT 19 ) % RRR Tf T FRTTR Rt TR r pT r;R Rrffnr; 

RR;,RR,RRRRfRfRRR'FtsrnT ld^RRRRI (4) 3"RT RRrT TlfRcTRI RT RRtR RT^ 
f tr %RtR RTRTT RRR TrftrfRRR % RRRRT RRR FRTRR RTt ^RTSTTI RTR ^FTR) ^ | 

Rf rFr^RRT 1970dltRRT^%SrRRfRRR>Ramff RRgftRjrrRV I 

[RWtTRo 35019(40)/71-RtotTR,o 2(i)] 



,|8ao the GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 [Pa»t II— 


S.O. 3430, — In exercise of the powers conferred by first proviso to section 0 of 
the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1852 (19 of 1952), 
the Central Government, after making necessary enquiry into the matter, hereby 
specifies with effect from the 1st Septemer, 1970 th eestablishment known as 
Messrs Garkals Private Limited, A-416, Defence Colony, New Delhi-3 for the pur- 
pose of the said proviso. 

[No. S. 350 19 (40) / 7 1-PJT-II- (ii).] 

«PTo «To 343 0- — TEdlET Efd*d fdfa EV 3'dd Mu SlfdfddE, 
1952 ( 1952 EE 19)0 UTTT 6 % Edd M 5T7T EdR TfTpRFft dd Ed'td dO |TT 
%ETtd dlfR fd fddd % ETdEdd RTd EE Of % EddTE EEfgTTT dEded Elfdtl fdfdET, 
<3[-416, fddEEdTRTO, df fdcO- 3 ETEd FdTEE d> 1 9 70 O RdTf $ EdE fO II TO 
EExTE % EElEET % fO[ fdfEfdE d7yft | 1 

[d° fT*r0 35Ol9(4O)/71 J ft°I>'W(ii)] 

S.O. 3431. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs 
Pharma Mach. 10- Chaulpatty Road, Calcutta-10, have agreed that the provisions 
of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of section 
1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the thirty-first day 
of March, 1970. 

[No. S. 85018 (7) /71-PF.II.] 

tfTo 3431. — Ed: %dftd Wl Eft dj£ Efftd dlET ^ fd Edlf dTE? RE", 
i o-’atWrjt fir, ddddT-io EiEd % thru fadTEd eIt dtfdTfEdf O dfdSdT 
fd did EE EEEd O d$ % fd dEdlEt dfOd fdfff eO f3EE ERE fdfsf EfdfEdd, 19 5 2 
( 1952 EE 19) %EEdRdEEEETEEd>md o fd^dO’dlf^; 

Ed:, Ed, EEE EfdfddE O STRT 1 O EEdTET ( 4 ) grrr ETE dfEddf EE Ed'td 
EEE f it OOd dEdTE EdE EfdfddE % EddEJ EdE TdTEE "Ft EdT JTTr EPT dEcft | | 

df EfsT^dET 1 9 7 0 % ETd % fed *Ft EdrT jjf EEfft 3TTT[dt I 

[EddTiTEo 350 18 ( 7 )/ 71 -dtolT^o 2 ] 

S.O. 3432.— Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Uma Castings, Amman Kulam Road, P. N. Palayam, Coimbatore-18 have 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of 
section 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment, 

This notification shall be deemed to have come Into force on th- first day of 
March, 1971. 

[No. S. 35019/15/71-PF.H.] 
VTotfro 3432.-Ed:OOd dEdEEdldf dfftdftdr| fdtfddEET dEfOEd", 
EdEE f Ed Of, Efo <rd° ETETdd, dtfREE- 1 8 ETEdi FdTEE E d*dl fdd'ldd Sffc dE- 
ETfOt O d^d ddT f d did EE dfEd | > df | fd EEEKl EffSd fdftT eV fETR ERE fdfsr 
Efd1%dE 1952 (l952dT 1 9 ) %dEE7R dEdFdmO did f^tr ROdTf^cr; 




Sec. 300] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 19J1/BHADRA 27, 1893 4821 


srt:, fafafwr fa srm i fa ysstrt (4 ) srt jtttt, fafafa ^ fafa 

tttt rtfft fa it^rirt ?n^sfRfat i 

1971 %Rfa%wfa’RfaR^^TRfa^it”n i 

[faWiTTT° 35019 (l5 )/7lfa°lfa° 2] 


S.O. 3433. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishments known as 
Messrs Advance Paints Private Limited, 125, Nagindas Master Road, Fort, Bombay 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said 
establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of 
section 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
March, 1070. 

[No. 8(217)/70-PF.II.J 

WIo fljo 3 433. — Rfi. fasffa OTTT fa ^ trffa farTT | f% RFlf T^fa 
faRT TTaTT fafar 12 5, TfafaSTH RTFR fas, faf , fiTTY RTT FT R TT^T f ffafaPF 

sfafaffal fa STR <R fa Ft | fa TfaYRT fafaR fa fa sfR TffaTT 

RfaRT fafST TTfarfaTHTT, 1952 ( 1 9 5 2 Tf 1 9 ) T Y JYT Rim fa YRffad Tfa ^llfa ; 

TR ,^TWfa«rfaYRYTffRT lfaYWTT ( 4 ) ffRT SPOT fafafa YT 5f*ffa 3R% 
f h %-fatr THYR fay faiNT % RFFtf Y^T TdTTT fa FfT'TJRT YFf YRT I 


m faV^TT 1970% Rlfa % tr«TtT ffa fa TTIT fa Rfifa 5firrjfr I 

[fTWT 8 (217 )/7 04fatT9it> 2 ] 


S.O. 3434. — In exercise of the powers conferred by first proviso to section 0 
>of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), the Central Government, after making necessary enquiry into the matter, 
hereby specifies with effect from the first day of December, 1970 the establishment 
known as Messrs Yatin Industries, Old Madras Road, Bangalore-14 for purposes 
. of the said proviso. 

[No. S.35019(14)/71-PF.II(ii).] 
Tfio 3434. — fajfa TRSRTT, Yffarff fafaraf fafa ?tYT fa?R faff! 

fafafaGT, 1952 (1952 Y1 1 9 )fatTRT 6%R7§Y TRT 5f?rT Wffafa Y1 Rlfa Yfa % 
STffapT R UNW far Yfa % T7TPT, ffapRT, 1 9 7 0 % IFRlfaT *T FTW ifafa 
; fafR rurirr ffa, fafa'R 1 4 fa dfRTRT % fa far % fad fafaffaa $ 1 

[HW t[TT “ 3 5019 (l 4)/7 l-fao ^^ 0-2 (ii )] 


S.O. 3435, — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Contemporary Arts and Crafts, 19, Nepean Sea Road, Bombay-6, have 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of 
section 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the thirtieth day 
<of September, 1970. 

[No. S.35017/l/71-PF.II(i).) 


4822 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 [Part II— 


VTo 3435. — EE: ETEEE Erf E^ EEfE ^ftET f fa ETEEREtfr 

tier rm eeeee- 1 9 , #fTE tfV tie, ijte£-6 % thtc fEEW ?frr EET’EtfEEf tt 

EfET^rWETETEE^E^E^faETTErff vrffaE fEfEE*fT^T^iTiTjfrEf?rfjj eMeEE,. 
1952 (1962E7T 19 ) % EWE EEE RETEE Eif Et\ fair 5(7% Enf^rf ; 

set:, EE, gw trfsrfEEE, ETt E1T 1 E^t 3WET (4 ) 3TTT ETE ElfEEE~t EE TEtE 
E75r §TT %TlfiTT RREEE TEE ^tTeTeTE % EWEi TEE EE TEE Eif TVEE5TTT TTIE ETET | I ■ 

E^Slfai^EEr 1970% fEEREE, % cffETE faE E>"t T^fT EESfl ETtfaf I 

[EEET iteo 35017 (l )/71-<ft°TTET° 2 (i )]] 

8.0. 3436. — In exercise of the powers conferred by first proviso to section 5. 
of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), the Central Government, after making necessary enquiry into the matter, 
hereby specifies with effect from the 30th September, 1970 the establishment known, 
as Messrs Contemporary Arts and Crafts, 19, Nepean Sea Road, Bombay-0 for 
the purposes of the said proviso. 

[No. S. 35017/1 /71-PF.II(ii).] 

«rrto wr° 3436 . — tteert Efanr fEftr eK ePteh e’er FeTst wfafEEB 

1952 (l952 EE 1 9 ) Eft EHT 6 % TEE TEEJET ITTT EETT ETfa.Et EE THE ETE fTR’ 
%EftE RREET EE f km if 7TW ETE ET EE % RETE EEE EERRfift'd EIE E 

ITOEEiTEEE, 19^FfEEf 6 ETEE RETEE Eft 3 0 fETNEE, 1 9 7 0 if t;EE ER^ET 

% EEtEET % fEE fEfdfEE ETEEf | I 

[RTtsET TIE o 3 5 0 17 (l )/71- l ffo irtj;o 2 (ii ))’ 


5.0. 3437. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Amar Automobiles, 46, Wadi Bunder, Hombay-10 have agreed that the- 
provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 
1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of 
section 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come. Into force on the thirtieth day 
of June, 1970. 

[No. S.3501 7/ 16/71-PFII..] 

«6To WTo 343 7.— EE: %^sftE EE TIE Eft JR EfftE fftET | fa itEE EEE Wl- 
ETETfEE, 4 6, El^ft EtE Eisf- 1 0 EIRE RETIE FW fEEfaEl sffR ERElfaff EE *%- 
EEET W ETE IE E^EE gft Er t fa EEEpff EfE^T fhfft EffT ^ ETE ’EEE fEfft EftffEEE,, 
1952 (l 9 5 2 EE 1 9 ) % EWE EEE RETEE EE ETEifEET ETft ETf|E ; 

EE: 5TE, EEE EfEfEEE Eft E1ET 1 Eft TEETH ( 4 ) ETC EEE EfEEEf EE EEtE THE 
$tr ^afE THEET EEE srfsfEEE % EWE EEE RHTEE Eft TRETgITT HT^EHEt | I 

m ’TfEEEET 19 70 %EE%EVEEfEEEffEEfTff RTETfE HTRfE I 

[EEETITEo 5 017 (l 6 )/7 l-EfvTrEi- 2 ]' 

8.0. 3438. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as- 
Messrs Bagaria Commercial Company, 17 Ganesh Chandra Avenue,, Caicutta-13i 




'Sec, 3(iiJ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 4823 


lhave agreed that the provisions ot the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 ot 1952), should be made applicable to the said 
establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of 
section 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall he deemed to have come into force on the thirty-first 
■ day of March, 1970, 

[No. S.35018(14)/71-PF.II-(1).] 

3438 — TT: FTTUT T>t Tf Tltd ftTT % fa FTtf Tllfan 

TTftm TTF-ft, 17-WT TiTTirP-lS TTTTi FTTTT t HTS ftTfaTi vOx 

spTTrfViff # TJF«TT £F TTT TT FJTT <TT Ft | fa TMTTfT Ffa=T fafsT TfK TjTPW TFT 
fTfa STfafaTT 1952 (l952Th 19) % F fT ITT it F i'i£ fad F it T7 fi?^ ) 

5TT1, 1 Tt FTTH! (4 ) TRTTJT TTfawf Tr TITT Tilt 

= 1 FTTHT FTT TfyfTTT % FTTMJ FIT £ JT'TT Tit ^TTTRT FFT TRcfl | I 

Trfsr^w i97o%ttt% TTffrnT far it tjf ft nmt fpttt i 

[F5TT t[7T o-3 5 018 ( 1 4 )/ 7 l-'ft °T,T5s>-2 i] 

S.O. 3439. — In exercise of the powers conferred by first proviso to section 6 of 
The Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
the Central Government, after making necessary enquiry into the matter, hereby 
specifies with effect from the 31st March, 1970 the establishment known as Messrs 
Bagarla Commercial Company, 17-Ganesh Chandra Avenue, CaleuLta-13 for the 
purposes of the -said proviso, 

| [No. S. 35018/14/71-PF.II(ii)A 

T>T° ffio 3439.— fafiT FTTR TTTKl FfaT ftft SftT fTCT TFT ftfsl, 

Tfftrfarr, 1952 (1 952 tt 19 ) tr strt g t; ttt tt^t jrt ttt wfafar tt ttIf 

TRT JIT, few ii TWW Ffa TTt % TFTTT 31 Rfif, 1971 t %TF 4FllRflT 

TiTfFTT TiFTTT, 1 7-FTF TbT $1^, T-TEdT- 1 3 TTTTi FTTTT Tt ^TTSRT FTT TRTTi 
% TTlFTT t fair faitfatiS % \ 

[>T° trffo-35018( 14)/71-'ftotTTio2 (ii)] 


S.O. 3440.— Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
-and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
’Messrs Narankar Ailto Engineering Works, G.T. Road, Goraya, District Jullundur 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees' Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act, (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said esta- 
’blishmenl; 

Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of 
section 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
-of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
-January, 1971. 

[No. S. 35019/ 41/71-PF. 11(1)] 

TTo wr° 3440. — TT: tfatl Tit TJ TTtf JtcTT t fa FTF TTTTT ?fat 

JRTtftTfaT TTF, vft° lf[° XfS, tl <lTi, faTT FWTR TTTTi PT ITT t WQ'S ftt EFT? sfR 
'TiTTlfttf Tt TgTW 5T TTT TT FJFT jt fa HTTRT ufaw ftfk TTTT 

ifaftT TrrTftTF 195 2 (,1932 TT 19) t FWT FTT PTTTT Tt TPJ far Fit TTfftr; 



4824 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 [PaW II — 


WcL, *IE, T'EI Sift) Pm H TRT 1 TTETRT ( 4) Sf«r ST^rT TTfTETT TT STTiE TT^" 

fir E7TTR TEE wfHf^RPT $■ TTEE7 ^ET Rim EEEfRT EFT ERfft $ I 


r? ^rfspgmT 1971 % ttt Pie 4 ft strt ee# ^nr^fv 1 

[T9TT 1TEO-3501 9 ( 41 )/ 7 1 ^ 0^0 2(1)] 

8.0. 3441. — In exercise of the powers conferred by first proviso to section 6 of 
the Employees' Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1962), 
the Central Government, after making necessary enquiry Into the matter, hereby 
specifies with effect from the first day of January, 1971 the establishment known as 
Messrs Narankar Auto Engineering Works, G. T, Road, Goraya, District Jullundur 
for the purposes of the said proviso. 

[No. S. 35019/41/71-PF.II(il)] 
WTo W° 3441 . — %ETEi EW<, E^ElP) nfW frfa tflT TEE fEfsi, 

wftrfdm, 1952 ( i952^r 19 ) Tf etrt e % tee ttejt jrt tte ePeet! tt ttIe 

ercT jcr, ERia Pitt Sr *rr* tr! % 1971 % ttr fm % ere 

fERFR wt tisfrfWGT EW, ^ft° ^V° TtTTTr, fENT ERRST WP Rim 

t^EfSTO OT TVd+ % TEpEE t % f%7r fTplfETE ERlft ^ I 

[EW ^-35019(4l)/71 J fio tTtfio 2 ( ii ) ] 

8.0. 3442. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Tara Tiles, Bandora, Ponda, Goa have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of section 
1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the said 
Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the thirty-first day 
of January, 1970. 

[No. S-35019(84) /71-PF.II.J 

<FT° 4TT° 3 442. — EE; EVW 1 ^ Tf TrftE ftET % fk! He4 ERT 

eritt, tffsT, Ertrr ert Rim ?r Ptime eVt EJEEipRii w tie tt 

RfTE ft I f% T^ERt EfTR ffifff Elr TpRIR TEE fEfT StMeTT, 19 5 2 ( 1 9 5 2 
TT 1 9) %■ ETTET TEE Rim Tt TIE fa I* ETE ETpftT; 


m:, EE, TEE WpRpTTT Tt ERT 1 ^t ETERI ( 4) 3RT TEE EfaETf TT TTtE TRT 
fir %^tT TRTK TEE EfTfETT % TTEEI TEE RTTTE Tt ITEESTET ^ ETEt | I 

Tf EPsCf[EET 1 9 7 0 Eft W ft % ^TrftTT fEE Tt TEE ff TE5lt ETTnft 1 

[TRfTtT^o-3501 9( 84)/71-Tto^To 2 ] 

S.O. 3443. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Bharathan Theatres Limited, Tenkasi, Tirunelvell District have agreed that 
the provisions of the Employees' Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 
1952 (19 of 1952 ), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of 
section 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification 

September, 1970. 


shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 

[No. 8(234) / 70-PF.II J 



Stic. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 4825 


ftio *!To 3443. — EE : BERET RE Ef[ STcftTT ?ffET | f% ERE ETTRE fWE 

fEfHd4 j r, fET^HEvft fv*ion d I fBTEE It E*E3 fEElERl e\T ft, 4 ^ i fV iff 

# EJRSRT *E ETE ET R^EE Bf | f«F RE^ETTf EfR*B fattf tflT RjErB E9TE fafa EftT- 
fEBE 1952 ( 1952 BE 19) ^ 3WI REE PETEE Eft E^fanT EFT BT%it; 

1(151:, BE, REE ft 9TTT 1 ft EEBKI ( 4 ) 3TTT ERE RifEEBT EE EEtB 

•FTE J 1 ! %?#Ft TOR EEn ViftlfVRR % Rrop&i -dt<i Him E?f EEEi ft I 

r? srftn^Ti 1970 ft fewi % jm fcE ft m jf BEifr irn^ft i 

[EBB! 8(234)/70-'f)'o infio 2] 

S.O. 3444. — Whereas It appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees In relation to the establishment known as Messrs 
Haryana State Industrial Development Corporation Limited, Bank of India Build- 
ing, Post Box No. 22, Sector 17, Chandigarh have agreed that the provisions of 
the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952, (19 of 1952), 
should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of sec- 
tion 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
October, 1970. 

[No. S. 35019 (48) /71-PF.II] 
WT° W(o 3444. — BE: %EftB RTEET ft BEtE ftdT | ftr EBB ETEIBT 
TTTTPtviT fa-fairs-, tB bpe ^bbt tTh±ii^ beet 2 2 , 
w: 1 7 , wFr? eteri tribe % ms fa bibb Bfa R.-4-RifaBf ft ?e ret et 
r^ee ft trf | f% RffasR fEfa- vflr § tvr bee fafa- 1952 ( 1952 re 

19) % BERET BEE TBTBE ft BTB fair iRfa Rl%[; 

BE : , BE, BEE BfafEEB ft RETT 1 ft BBETTT ( 4) EFT REE Flf'PPTI TT ERIE 
Rtfa ^7 T^R BERET BEE RfafaRB % BERET gBE TBTBE Eft ^JRT BTR^BFET | I 

Elt BfagRET 1 97 0 % rrtrt % ere far Eft b^h BE?ft Rrn^ft 1 

[rWM^To-35019(48)/71-^oittjio ii] 

8,0. 3445. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Mssrs 
Mukherjee & Biswas, 10, Old Post Office Street, Calcutta-1 have agreed that the 
Provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 195 
(19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of section 
1 of the' said Act, the Central Government hereby upplies the provisions of the said 
Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
April, 1967. 

[No. S, 35018/19/71-PF.II.] 

BRo Sffo 3 44 5. — EE: ‘imO'R ETRET ft Rf BEtE flET ft far EBBT JJGpjff E/JR 
faWB , 1 0, RtcR BtTT RTfafB Tffa, RFTRTBT- 1 , BTERf TRTRE Tt EFTS’ faR'lER. vflT Rdfa 
BT fa.E T R?t Eg BEET RE ETE RT B"?RE gt Ef ^ faf RTRBTTt Rfaw fa-fa ?fk f ERIE ftfST 
wfEfRRM 1952 ( 1952 RE 19) % EEEEJ gRE PRTEE ft EEj;fE>TT Etf^i 




4826 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 [Past H_ 


set, ?r, rrr stFrFrtr ^ rrt 1 # ^wrt ( 4 ) anr rrt wFeirt r RRtR rrr 
57 rjFr rtrr rtr rFtFrrr % rwet rrr frttr qFt wr<{ TTcfr t 1 

r? rFr^rri 1 9 g 7 % rrr % rrr Fet r RRr RRsfr rptri 1 

[R5RriTR°-35018( 19)/71-Ti° 2 ] 

S.O. 3446,- — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
md the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known a3 
Messrs Lotus inks, 47-A/l, Brick Kiln Road, Madras-7 have agreed that the provi- 
sions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 
of 1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of section 
1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the said 
Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
September, 1970. 

[No. 8(292) /70-PF,II(i)l 

<TTo WTo 3 44 6. — RR: RftR 7RTR RfT RR[r fftfiT f % 4 rR vftRT RRR, 

47— f/t fap Fee fte, rrik-7 rtrr Rim 4 rtr^ fRR’FRR' rTr 'ERRrfRRf 

RpRRT SR RTd RT RMPT ft r£ | Fe ^ fclR T rFrcR Fr Fr RR TRrR R' RR fRfR rFr- 
fRRR 1952 ( 1 952 «ET 19 ) % 3RRRJ RRR 7R1RR Rt NRJ fop RTR RTffR ; 

RR:, RR, TB RftrfRRR Tt RRT 1 Et B'TRRT ( 4 ) 3TTT RRT rFiRRT TT RRtR 
«fRR fR %uftR R7+R BTR I 

Rf stFr^ret 1 970 % Frrcr, % rrr fed dt a-ftr ff ir# RTFRt i 

[RRRT 8( 292)/70-4[o trqio-2 (i)] 

S.O. 8447. — In exercise of the powers conferred by first proviso to section 6 of 
the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act. 1952 (19 of 1952), 
the Central Government, after making necessary enquiry into the matter, hereby 
specifies with effect from the 1st September, 1970 the establishment known as 
Messrs Lotus Inks, 47-A/l, Brick Kilm Road, Madras-7 for the purpose of the said 
proviso. 

[No. 8(292)/70-PF.II(ii)J 


iJTTo WTo 3447. — RTRdRt vrfaeq- fdfR sftR fRR fold Fdfd RftrfdRR, 1952 
( 1952RT 19) qftHRT 6 % RRR r RdJR <TRT RdcT BfdRR't R SPIRT fR $rdrtR (K+K 
?R fdRR 4 WRRRRT ^TPR RR % RRdT^ RRR3RT ^RR PflRR 47-R/l, fwfdd TTT, 

RsfTR- 7 RPRE PRTRd RRR %?RiR, 1970% LB RdRE % RdTddT % %R fdFdldR 
RR(ft | I 

[RRRT 8(292)/70-Rto RRo 2 ( ii ) ] 


S.O. 3448. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and tl»e majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs 
Central Cycle and Motor Company, 170, Broadway, Madras-1 have agreed that the 
provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 
[19 of 1952), should be made applicable to th esaid establishment; 

Now, therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of section 
l of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the said 
Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
VTarch, 1970, 1 

[No. 8(96)/70-PF.II] 



Sec- 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 4827 


tpio 5 No 3 4 48. TT ' TT 7? TrflcT %TT | % RTT %J5T TTTPiwT 

rVt TTTTp 1 70-HTTT, RTTFT- 1 TUFF E4PFT % pErtT-E 5fk TTTlfTTt «J?T 

T^STT 77 TIT TT HffTcT ft 7$ | Pp TELdTpt Tps^T PdPn ?ftz ifTTR ??FT PlPET 5TftJpTT7, 
1952 ( 1 9 5 2 TT 19) % TT^FST TIT DTFFT Tt ?TFJ %(T TfH TTpfp ; 

5TT:, 514, TIT TtPtPtTT # TT T 1 Tit TTTTCl ( l) g[TT<r TTTTT PfTlt VI 
TTtT 5tP iPlTT % 7WT TIT FTrTT 

(TTTircr <T’i TtPr ^ i 

Tf Trftrgw 1970 % HT# % SHUT Ppf Tt 7f rt ff 77% 777% I 

[7371 8 ( 96)/70-fto T^o 2 ] 

S.O. 3449, — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority ol the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs 
Porascole Coal Company Limited, 18, Nelaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1 have agreed 
that the provisions ot the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Act, 
1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore in exercise ol the powers conferred by sub-section (4) o.f section 
1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the said 
Act to the said establishment, 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the thirty-first day 
•of July, 1969. 

[No. S.35018/ll/71-PF.II(i).] 

<tfT°wr° 3449 . %%t trttl % 75 7%t fterr | Pf tPt7%7 

f7p7£T 18, %7T% IJTTT PtT, TTWr- 1 7T7T F71T7 ?T 7'77 P-TTlTF 5lK 4777%!% 
77 7 j 7571 77 4 T-r TT 7f 77 % 7p | Ph TTTfd RpTT PtPt 7% TpTdTL t JT-T PtPeT ^TFtT- 
f777, 1952 ( 1952 TT 19 ) % 7T7-T TIT I7T77 77 NFJ Pp7 TFT differ ; 

5 TT:, 5 i 4 , tit srPsrPm, % srrcr 1 % tttrt ( 4) arirr ttt srPiTPr 77 ttPt 

«F% |7 %7ff7 71777 TIT 5TpJpT77 % TPF7 TIT F7rT7 77 ([T^Kf Tf'X THT I I 

7f TpTTJTTT 1 969 Til - 3j7lf % ^77%7? P?7 77 7f7 §§ 77% 7%7p I 

[T®TTt5ffo35018( 1 1 )/7 1 %o 2 (i )] 


New Delhi, the 16 th Auomt 1971 

S.O. 3450. — In pursuance of paragraph 4 of the Employees’ Provident Funds 
■Scheme. 1952, the Central Government hereby sets up a Regional Committee for 
the Union Territory of Delhi, consisting of the following persons, namely: — 

Chairman 

1. Secretary (Labour), Delhi Administration, 15-Rajpur "1 

Road, Delhi. | Representatives 

2. Joint Director Industries Delhi Administration, Old I of the Delhi 

Secretariat, Delhi. f Administration. 

3. Deputy Labour Commissioner, Delhi Administration, | 

15-Rajpur Road, Delhi. J 

4 . Shrl R. N. Agarwala, Frag Distilleries Water and Ice "1 

Factory, Subzi Mandi, Delhi. J 

5. Shrl S, K, Jagnani, Manager, Birla Cotton Spinning l Representatives 

and Weaving Mills Limited, Subzi Mandi, Delhi-7, [ of employers. 

6 . Shrl S, K. Wadhawan, D.C.M. Chemical Works, Najaf- I 

garb Road Industrial Area, Delhi-15. J 




4528 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 197UBHADRA 27, 1895 {Part II — 


7. Shri J, R, Narang, Member INTUC Delhi Ad-Hoc 
Committee, B-9, HIL Colony, Najafgarh Road, 

Now Delhi. 

8 . Shrl Hari Krishan Pathak. General Secretary, Bhartiya 

Mazdoor Songh 5239, Ajmeri Gate, Delhi-6. 

9. Shrl B. D. Joshi, C/o Delhi State Committee of All 

India Trade Union Congress, 4215, Tel Mandl, 

Pahar Ganj. New Delhi-35. 

i [No. PF. II/10(S)/5».I 

Effect, 16 mTET, 1971 


Representatives: 
of Employees. 


mo 34f\0 'Pfarfl' EpEE 195 2 4 % if %EftE 

BR8PR EE fecoft, % fatr ^EffTCT ^ TftfVw EfE% *t EETEET ETcft $, fEE if f^T- 
fitiftici «if*Ri 5^, * — 


tftw 

1. (*ro) 

fapofl srVTTTDT 1 5, <)3, Pleeft I 

2. lUJFT f-EtypE ElflE, 

fsiHfi SWEPT, tflEl Puic, I 
3- EE-EE WPJW, 

fe'Et EWEET, 1 6, Xfoi'iv; Tpr, I 

4. «ft ETTo rr^o VUETH, 

SEE fVfpCTrfPl ETET irvr 1^1 ’ft 5 Kft, Eioft 

I 

5. *ft t{Ro % o EEEPft, 

5DEETE fEWEBE fprimrq^T EtfEE f»TcE 

6. ’Sft'JEo %o WIEE, 

Eto Et° rrEo -■? Ph '+ f T EEE, EEEiET Tin, 

fr^EE tjP^rr fE^rt— 1 5 1 

7 . ’sft^o tTRo ETEE, 

EEET ?TtEE ^ VIE 01 EpEET TTEE, 

feeEt EEE EfEPd 5ft- 9, %T TEEPft, EEEE? 
Tfe, Ef fa?Et I 

8. «ft ffnrcq- -TT5E, 

EfElfEE, ETEEtE EE?E EE, 5 2 3 9, WTft EE, 
6 I 


V fo*ft HifTTEE % EfdftpE r 




> fEEtw'f % STfaftfa I 


EEETfTET E EfEfEfE I 


9. «rt Eto f\o Etwt, 

■Hl'-bd ETE ^flET ’jfEEE EEtfE, E?T fEETt 
THSE EpEpT, 4215, EE E*st, S^TE EE, E$ 

Pteofl— 5 5 1 

[E«ET Eto tr^o II— 10(3) / 5 9] 


New Delhi, the 21st Aupusf 1971 

S.O, 3451, — 'In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (b) of sub-section.' 
(1) of Section 5A of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1852 (19 of 1952), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri P. C. 
Misra, aa a member of the Central Board of Trustees, and makes the following; 




Site- 3 Tpfl>] tfoblA: SEPTEMBER 18 , l 4 > l/'riHXriR A H, 4829* 


further amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the late 
Department of Social Security No. S.O. 1156, dated the 1st April, 1865, namely;— 

In the said notification, fpr the entry argainst serial number 3, the following 
entry shall be substituted, namely: — 

"Shri P. C. Misra, Internal Financial Adviser and Deputy Secretary to the- 
Government of India, Ministry of Labour and Rehabilitation, (Depart- 
ment of Labour and Employment), New Delhi.". 

1 [No. 12(2)/68-P.II.]' 

fit ffeft, 21 WTRT, 1971 

vto wr° 3451— .fifiNrtr Nfaw ffiftr rw ifwi fcrfi ffifa STfaffiRfi, 1952 

( 1952 fifi 19) # WTT 5-fif fift fifiWTT ( l) % (<j) % (TJfiRVT if fofPr fiWTT 

Nf ffoRTo fjTN, Wfifrb ffiffTfi RNlfh'R NiT NfRT fiTfirn;, Nfi $rk 

Rarfifi («pt *rk fV»rrn-) qr> ■rtr!' tit vr RRpfi ftnw qRfft | 

wk WTR TOR % vjfiijt RTfiTfwfi 1JW ftfiTfi Slffi^RfiT ROTT fiT° Wo 1156 

fiirtsr ttr wrt, 1965 t fan fa Pan r^rr r^r) - ^ ; wrfo[: — 

Nfd^Tfii fiifi wm 3 % wfifi srffife: % rwfi qr, ffiwfafNfi srftfctf 

TpTffilftfi 5fft fiTfT.ft, 5TtPT : — 

"<tv fTofiVo ffiN, 

wrfifo: ffiffrfi fifirpfiT Rfi Rftfi, 

WTR WR, «PT 'trlT 'IRt'TE ERTRR 
(Nfi ?fk TTWTTT ffifiTfi), fit fetT I 


[fififil 12(2)/38-'frolTTio-2] 

S.O. 3452. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Maneklal and Sons Agency^ 29, Thambu Chetty Street, Madras-1, have 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pen- 
sion Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said establish- 
ment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of 
section 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
August, 1969. 


[No. 8(30)/70-PF.ir.] 

VT° Vl o 34 5 2.— filf: 'iRfor +K*t> K fill fif STfitlT flfiT | % WTR WfifilRM 
M 29, «FT Rflc, RTFI-1 8W PTTRfi % WRd fwflRRT NlT RWwfvqT 

fi>t figfiOTT ITR RTR IT figER fi"£ ^ f% WTfiTTl’ flffiW ffiftJ qlTRTT RSTfi ffiftT 
NfsrffifiR, 1952 ( 1 952 Rfi 19) % EqWE fififf R7T RET f%fT Wfi wfgrr 

Wl:, WT, W SrfaffiWT Rft EKT 1 8Wfi ( 4) 5TTT TfiTT fflfwW fifi Spftfi 
fiTrfi ftr 6 WI i EffiffiWT % RfifiW TwWFTfi RfifiJlTT RET RTTeV | | 

RR NfiHJfiET 1 969 % WTER R-' TTE f,fi fifi fifid gf fiR5ft Wfiffil I 

fmm r[ 3n) /7n-uto l J Lh a *>1 




4830 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971 /BHADRA 27, 1893 [Past H— 


New Delhi, the 31st August, 1971 

S.O. 3453. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Vidyut Motors. 264, Charni Road, Opposite Central Cinema, Bombay-4 have 
agreed that the. provisions of the Employees' Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment. 

Now, therefore, m exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of 
section 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come Into force on the thirtieth day 
of September, 1970. 

[No. S. 35017(9)/71-FF-IIJ 

Wfo 34 52, — TT: TRT7R fa STcftcT ffaT | fa fffa 

26 4, TT? fa, faijrr flfar % ffpfa, RRrf-4 dPT'E HTTTff % ET5T5 fadfa far 
^ffafa fa ffjfaTT 7T fa fa | fa faffRt 'Tfaff ffaj fac ifaR 

fahTR fafa farfapl, 1952 ( 1 9 5 2 f 19) % THRU TT7 RTNd fa vlPTffal fa 


srl, sr, u-fd ^rfarffaq-tr fa rri 1 fa ettetrt ( 4) srcr rh tt ufa 
■ffa faRfa-T 1RT7R 3RT fafaTR % 3W RTPT fa ^ffTJRT HR TTdt t I 

^ fafajHHT 1 97 1 % ffaiRT, % fafa far fa sr^r fa unfa fafa 1 

[faT f[fR35 0 1 7 ( 9) / 7 1— Tfa^Tio — 2] 

S.O. 3454. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs 
South India Aluminium Company, 35, Mini Street, Madras-3, including factory 
at Mahabailpuram Road, Madras-41 have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
should be made applicable to the said establishment. 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of 
section 1 of the said Act, the Centra] Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
November, 1970. 

[No. 8(266)/70-PF.IL] 

fao HR 2 4 54. — TT: TRHR fa Tjf faff faffr | fa Jfffa 

iiTRfafHTfT ffnfa, 3 5 faff R fafa H2Tff-3, faffff Hjrfffffaff faT, ffffHR41 ff faff 
HRffTfff tft fffafaf % ffPTF RlTTff ff HRS fafaff fa fa ff fat fa fffaSfff 
ffrff ffl ff?ffff fa fff I fa fafffa IT fa 7 fffPff fad f fa faff ffffaffffffffffff / 1 952 
{ 1952 ffff 19) % ffffff FffTffff fa Hl\ffa fa 

5Tff:, fa ffffff faffaff fa STRT 1 fa ffffffRl ( 4 ) ffRf ffffffT fafat ffff fffa 
fffa 1 7 fafa faFR -R=f fajffaff % ffffffffff ffffff ffffTTff fa ffffTffRT HTff fffat | I 

1970 % fa fa 5Tfftff fffffa fafft | 

[faffT 8/265/ 7 0 — fa 0 ^' 60 — 2 ] 

S.O. 3455, — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees In relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Nanavati Dies & Tools (Private) Limited 4, Shivaji Colony Perera Hill 
Road, Off M, Vassanji Road, Andheri Bombay-69 have agreed that the provisions 



Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1892 4831 


of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment. 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of section 
1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall ibe deemed to have come into force on the first day of.' 
August, 1970. 

[No. S. 35017/22/71-PF.IK1).] 

«PTo WTo 34 5 5. — TT: TRET RTfR ft T-ftd ftfiT | TIT# WHf 
3T$3jl rnr< (<fto ) 4, fwsft TTUFft, fitn f?Nf TIT, SEW rnio TOEDf) fR, 

SRShft, JT^t-69 TUFT RETT TUTO TETrfuit Tt STgfreqT fTT “TET TT 

| ttNitY Rfycr fafy tftr ifunr t jr My wfyMry, 1952 (1952 

«PT 1 9 ) % TEpy 7W pim Tt tet ffV *rrn yrffq; ; 

RE:, SR, TRI yfaMui iff sfTTT 1 # UTERT ( 4) SRI 5fTE Efaytff TT TTO 
T7% $tr %TTPT RTTTT TTT iffyfTTE % Tid'd TW idTTT Tt ^dTSITT EFT TTEt ?f I 

Tq srfy^PTT 19 70 % WT % TUT fdT Tl 5TTfT TUTSft 7EUE I 

[tMtitRo 35917(22)/7 1— tVciT^To — 2 (i)] 

SO. 3456. — In exercise of the powers conferred by first proviso to section 6 of 
the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
the Central Government after making necessary enquiry into the matter, hereby 
specifies with efiect from the first day of August, 1970, the establishment known as 
Messrs Nanavati Dies and Tools (Private) Limited, 4, Shivaji Qpiony, Pereira Hill 
Road Oil, M. Vassanji Road, Andheri. Bombay-69 for the purposes of the said 
proviso. 

[No. S-35017/22/7 1-PF.II (ii) . ] ’ 

*7T° 34 5 6. — ER-tiTT TETKt rMt ftfy rTt ERE Met, 

yfyfaUT, 1952 ( 1 952 TT 19) Tt URT 6 % 5TW TTRfT TTTT TUT uftrEE TT 
mn TR |TT TT3 fdTT if STFTRTT ETT TUT % TfTFT TO 1 9 70 % TUT M 
^ yuf TRFfft TRE- 3RT (Tl) fyfuM 4-fiJRRft TETidl, Mu %T ftT, RTW PRo 
TRETEl tm, USRt, RJRT- 6 9 dHTT WN Tt TTTJRT UTT RUTJTT % RTRET % fUE 
frfdfTR tret | 1 

[fTWT Tdo-35017( 22)/71— froircRo-2 (ii)] 


S.O. 3457. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Everest Blocks, Jay Gopal Industrial Estate, 510, Bhavani Shankar Cross 
Road. Unit No. 305, 3rd Fioor, Dadar, Bombay-28 have agreed that the provisions of 
the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
should be made applicable to the said establishment. 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of 
section 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
January, 1971. 

[No, S.35017(8)/71-PF-II.] 

fRo | f% *UITR, 

^rnrfrqqr tt^r, 510, 'RREffun: r;te tr, ijfyr 4 ° 30 5 , tffarff Rfro, 

VRT, ^pTh- 28 TUFF PETTT % RRIT sftr TN^Tfuff 7ft RfRWT TTT ETR RT 




4832 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 [P*rt U— 


dpA jr e| | f# ^EdKf tjfkm f#f# wfYr TfwT t'e-t f#f# ufafETE, 1952 (1952 
ee 1 9) % petee epj; fa# et# Erf^ ; 

wd EE, EW EftrfEEE 1 8TTT 1 'Ey 'S'Hti Kl ( 4 ) 5TTT 5TdTT “<l TT EE#! 
ET#t JIT ETTTT EEd wfafdEE % EWST EEd FETEE E# TfTTffRT dPj; Edcft $ I 

EJ STREET 19719# dddfa % EEd f^E 9# EJtT EEST# dT##! I 

[#5TT ^ o - 3 5 0 1 7 ( 8 ) / 7 1 -'ft o ITCR o - 2] 

8.0. 3458. — Whereas It appears to the Centra] Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Kumudam Process, 47-A, Brick Kiln Road, Madras-7 have agreed that the 
provisions of the Employees 5 Provident Funds and Family Ftension Fund Act, 1952 
(19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment. 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of section 
1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
-said Act to the said establishment. 

This notflcation shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
September, 1970. 

[No. 8(291)/70-PF-II(i).] 

•rrro <TTo 3458. -3d: %fsffa ifdK 9# EJ Edfa jfar $ fa f FJTE sft#(T, 

4 7-TT, ftfT faeE Tfa, E2TE- 7, EPEE FETEE # ER7I tEEtUT tftv- TE TTfTET 9# EJEWT 

eeteet eject jt e£ £ % EEEfar Efm fEfa %fu f eee faf# NfafEEE, 1952 

( 1952 9E 19) £ Wd E9E TENE *rt EPj;fa# Ei# ETfar; 

m:, EE, TFT ArftrfEEE 9# ft ITT 1 9# EEFJTTT ( 4) 3TTT EEd dlfafaT TT STEIE 
eft |tt %dffa eeek EftTfEEE £ eteet tee t«rm 9# i^tht ^ jfte# | i 

EJ 1970 $ %dRT % TEE for 9# jf EEET dlfaft I 

[E9ET 8(29l)/70-ll'o ir^ 0 -2(i)] 

5.0. 3459.- — In exercise of the powers conferred by first proviso to section 6 
of the Employees' Provident Funds and Family Pension Fynd Aci. 1952 (19 of 
1952), the Central Government, after making necessary enquiry into the matter, 
hereby specifies with effect from the 1st September. 1970 the establishment known 
as Messrs Kumudam Process, 47-A, Brick Kiln Road, Madras-7 for the purpose of 
the said proviso. 

[No. 8(291)/70-PF-II(ii).[ 

fffo WTo 345 9. — E#ERT Efm fdfa dfa J5Rf EdE fdffl dfafalE, 19 52 
( 1 95 2 9E 19) 9# trnj 6 % EEE jrt EEd EfafaT ET ETfa 9d# J<t %.#zr 

ETEK TE fadE # 5Fim EHE ET EA $ EFETT #EE f ETE 5fl#E, 4 7~E, 

fad fawT TIE, EdPT- 7 W FTTEE 9# TEE fomT, 1970 # E9E TW % STEfad# 

% fdtr fafEfm ET-pfi | I 


[#®TT 8( 29l)/70-'ffo ir^ 0 - 2 (ii)] 

S.O, 3460. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Sri Ganapathy Motor Service Burmab Shell Dealer, Nagercoil, Kanya- 
kumari District, Tamil Nadu have agreed that the povisions of the Employees’ 
Povident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made 
applicable to the said establishment. 




$EC. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 4833 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) cf section 
1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the sold establishment. 

This notiflcstion shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
February, 1970. 

LNo. 8 f 1921/70 ■FF-II(l).l 

VTo 3 4 6fl. — W: TO+TT W iff ftffT | itwf WFlfiT 

WR gfffH W? sm ffaT, dTn-TTtTT, fTOff, TftTHTTT TOFF PTm i* TOST3 

fkftW #T TR^Tpnff # ffffpSTT W NTcT IT TOW 111 fff % fa Tffal# fffTOT fafij 

*rk jkTtst qm faftr wftrfkm, 1952 ( 1952 ^rr 19)% gww gw F«nw # Nil 

fait TOff gif#> ; 

w;, nt to gftrfaig # srm 1 # gwrrr ( 4) jra tw gfam w wk 
wit fir %gfFr towt gw gfafaro % gwu to ^grw # pttsjto toj; wfr | 1 

TO wftr^TTT 1970 # WTOt F TTT fw # TRT ff 6Wt TOfal I 

[ffalT 8( 1 9 2) / 7 0#!° ^0-2(1) ] 

S.O. 3461, — In exercise of the powers conferred by first proviso to section 6 of 
the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1052), 
the Central Government, after making necessary enquiry ipto the matter, hereby 
specifies with effect from the 1st February, 1970 the establishment known as 
Messrs Sri Ganapathy Motor Service, Burmah Shell Dealer, Nagercoil, Kanya- 
kumari District, Tamil Nadu for the purposes of the said proviso, 

|No.8(l92)/70-PF-II(ii).] 

Wo WTo 3461- fal# 7TMW fafff gfsrfim, 1952 (1952 W 19) # 
URT 6 TTff TWjf? 3R1 TOW yffw ft ffff TIT 7 ! TO fT WSk TOWT ST faffT 
4 tTrlW-T TOT W W 4 TWIT ^TOfT-T Wfl, «ft ■T'Wff fffeT FPlF TOT-TOT 

#gr, gr-Tr#?T, wTiwnfl ftnr, fffrrwTg titof totw t”t tof wwt, 1 9 1 0 4 
tot TTOTTr T T it wf T fa r fafafte w# t I 

[ 45TO 8 ( 1 9 2 ) / 7 >*Tt 0 ff'E' 3 - 2 ] 
Work f%f , 

TOT E’f'TT I 


S.O. 3462. — Whereas It appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs. District Sports Council, Stadium Grounds, Salem-7, Salem District have 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pen- 
sion Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the ssid establish- 
meiit; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of sec- 
tion 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment with effect from the 31st August, 1971. 

[No, S. 35019(75; /71-PF-II] 

«FT° WT° 3462. — W : #3# WR # iff ffTtff ftTO | far itTFT fafc^w 
fak'ff #fror, fafTTO TOTOTF, FEW- 7, TOTO fating TOFF WIW if FiTO fTO ti R 
wk TTOiffai # fff tow ?g tot w irfw ft t fa wtotV gfror fafa sk f gw 
'W fafsr gfafaw 1552(1952 w 19 ) % w^ra'gFiT wm # tot ttr ’rrffo;; 

wr. gw ’Tfyf'-tw # trrrr 1 # gw nr ( 4 ) frrr gw gfwrf w tt'k 
; wff f cr krm wtot wffffwg % wgiff #r rrrrsjm wr, Twt | 1 

Iff wftjgwrr 19 71# WTW % 3 Iff fw # f f FF# I 

[go ^ 0 - 350 / 19 ( 7 5) / 7 1— fft oT^Tio 2 J 




4834 TIlE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 [Part II- 


S.O, 3463.— Whereas It appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs, Madhu Mudrak, 35, Industrial Area, Chandigarh have agreed that the 
provisions of the Employees' Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 
1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of sec- 
tion 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come Into force on the first day of 
December, 1970. 


[No. 8(271)/70-PFJI(i)T 

TTo Wo 34 63. — W: (HER fa 7? STcffa ffaT % fa RRT *TCT fafa 3 5, 

faw, wfafiT TREE fRRT 7 FW ffatRE ufa TETWffaf fa qffatiT SE 
WcT 9 R ERET (ft fa t fa REERt Efa-E fafa ER qffalR $EE fafiT fasrffa q- 1952 
( 1952 TT 19) % Eqfa ETT ETEET fa EEJ fair ETE wfa7 ; 

wr wr, ere wftrfaiE fa mrr 1 fa ^twrt ( 4) gRi rrt fafafa ri faBr 
4RE ij'7 fafair )pr\ T E4E falfaRT R EEfa EW *ETEE fa fafaTE Rrfa | I- 

Eg 1 970 % fa ret, % strt far fa ert EEfa Rifat i 

[E7ET 8 ( 2 7 1 ) / 7 0 -fit o FTWo— 2— (i) J' 

S.O. 3464. — In exercise of the powers conferred by first proviso to section 6 
of the Employees' Provident Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), the Central Govern- 
ment, after making necessary enquiry into the matter, hereby specifier with effect 
from the 1st December, 1970 ths establishment known as Messrs, Madhu Mudrak 
35, Industrial Area, Chandigarh for the purposes of the said proviso 

[No. 8(271)/70-PF Il(ii)] 

ETo Wo3 4 64. — wfalfa Effar fafa fafafaE, 1952 ( 1952 47 19) fa 

STRT 6 3? ERT 3T7T ERT fafaEt 4T ET>T REt f rr ETTR ?E fatRT 

it WRIER 4R R gt 7 E7WE falfRT EEE, ’HEETT 35, ^fatSE fafaT, WttR? 
EREF EREE fa STRT fap^R, 197 0 ?! 3R E'RJT % EEfafa T fair fEffa-fiE ERfft 

$ I 


[RsET 8( 27l)/70-qt° t[T°-2(ii)] 


S.O. 3465. — Whereas It appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs. Diamond Service Station, Great Eastern Road Raipur have agreed that 
the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the s_aid establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of sec- 
tion 1 of the said Act. the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment with effect from the 31st August, 1971, 

[No. S. 35019(76)/ 71 -PFT] 

EE° W °3465. — EE: %faE ERFR fa Eg EEtE faiT % fa falE REWOE faRT 
^FRT , fa fafa TR, TTRjr, TTO' TWEE it E*RE faffRF WR TWffar fa 

EgEE gt fa & fa qdfalfr EffaE fafa far faw fdfa EffatEE, 1952: 

( 1952 47 19) ^ EfaEEEE FREE fa Wfifatr fat fafa ; 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 4835 


*fi:, m, r strt 1 # ^q-grcr ( 4 ) arm frt wf+urf ft 

51 TFT FHT ^^T TRFR "JET Hf?JTTT % FTTT TO RTTTF *PT T[F?3TTr 3 1 SHIFT, 

1971 WET TRcft | I 

[TsTT tTT-350l9( 76)/71-fr qi5° l] 


S.O. 3466. — Whereas it appears to the Centra] Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs. Western Gas Company, 107-K Block, ‘F’, New Alipore, Calcutta-33, have 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said establish- 
ment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of sec- 
tion 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
July, 1970. 

[No. S-3501B/29/71 -PF.II] 

THo flfo 3 4 66. — TT: %FHT THFR F> Tf TTIH TEH | fo TTH #FFT J?T 
thttV, i o 7 % o -mm 'pf', ~t, htfr, ththtt- 5 3 thtt rim T [ftthf sftt 
TiHHTfTTf FT ITT FRf TT FfHET ?H fit | fF TTHTfl hReT fafET sfaqfHTR TCTT 

fafir srFErfrTT, 1952 ( 1952 th 19) % freet fft wm ft hhj f%t[ hr htF^; 

HF, m, TFT WErfTTT FT HKr 1 F?f THJTH ( 4) STH TTH H^FTT FT STTtT 
TRT |(T FF>-T *RFR HFT hRfTTT % TIT-J FIT CTC-TT FT P-T^TTH Hff TRcfV | I 

TT HfH^FTr 19 7 0 Ft HHii F 3 I#' fed FT TTF TTTjfl HnjTt I 

[ffW 35 0 18(29)/7 1— 'fl'ot^Fo 2] 


New Delhi, the 1st September 1971 

S.O, 3467. — Whereas the. Central Government was satisfied that; 

(1) Dholekote Workshop 

(2) Krishna Foundry 

were situated in Village Dholekote areas which was a sparse area (that is, an 
area whose insurable population was less than 500) in the district of Ambala in 
the State of Haryana. 

And, whereas by virtue of their location in a sparse area, the aforesaid fac- 
tories were granted exemption from the payment of the employer’s special con- 
tribution under section 73F of the Employees' State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 
1948) until enforcement of the provisions of Chapter V of the Act in that area 
by the Central Government in the notification of the Government of India in the 
late Ministry of Labour and Employment No. S.O. 1367 dated the 6 th May, 1903. 

And, whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the insurable population 
of the Village Dholekote area in the district of Ambala in the State of Haryana 
has now exceeded 500, and it is no longer a sparse area; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the 
Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government 
hereby makes the following further amendment in the said notification, namely:— 

In the Schedule to the said notification against Serial No. 1 , the entry “Village 
Dholekote” in column 3 and the entries corresponding thereto in column 4 shall 
be omitted. 


[No, F. 603(5)/70-HI,J 




4836 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 [Part II— 


df fkmi, 1 1971 

FTo tffo 3467 : — rr: %RftR RTFTT FT Rf RRTSTH 5 'r FTT rt f%( 1 ) Tl% Ft£ 

R^FTR ( 2) fTOrrEI'd^ RTRStR FtT STF it fTRcT F Tt $fTRTwft 7TVR % tft-d | ip 
?trt^V ft « rta srqifr t*rt £? r twEt ^Frr #1 sriRFft sooRFrrsft «n; 

*ftr ft: Rrkrt iwft srmfr % sarar *r 5 TTfkr% % smnr it %^?pt rtftt Jr 
TFf*RT FTTgid FT RP7T RTFK % TR wk ftWCHRIFTR FT Tftl^FTT RFTT 

FTo *TTo 1967 FT^TJ 6 Rf 1 963 3RT +4 ti{T TFJ7T *ftRT SffferfWT, 1948 (l94& 
FT 3 4) Ft STTTT 7 3^ % STiffT f*TRtorF % faffa tlfR'iiR % TPTTR % cTR 3F F fHl* 7§T ^ 
^^RRdFRftTRRftrfdFR^^R 5FTTRT9TF^$RFfFfr Rff^REt 

*fk RR: kiftR TTTFK FT Rf ’TRTETFT $t RRT | f~F TTf?RT>Tr TT^T % SpRToTT fRvT 
Jl TTTR 5t%Ft? ffiT Rft #RT R>R FTT^Pfl RR 500 ^^FFf | sftr Rf fRisITt RTRkt FT 

wr d^t | 

5H?r: ,SIR, F^RFft TE?R kTSTfafaRR, 1948 ( 1948FT 34 ) FtURT 73R5RTTT 
VlfFTRT FT TTPr Fdd JJ7 FTTr 1 BTFTT T^d^RTTr TFT Tf’J^TTT if TTVT tTHl fd M fi-l Idid 
TTRfiTR FTrft |, *fRfa :■ — 

TFT «rfHfFTT IT, FT TT3RT 1 % RTRR, ? H 3 R 1 , "RET StHFti” 
id t R 4 fJofRTdt JJ fd f^27ff FT RTF FT felT RntRT 

[ttW FTo 6 03 ( 5 ) / 7 0* T^R 0 FTT^**] 


New Delhi, the 2nd September 1971 

S.O. 3468. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of 
section 13 of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 
1952 (19 of 1952), and in supersession of the notification of the Government o:i 
India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Departmenl 
of Labour and Employment) No. S.O. 61 dated the 11th December, 1970, the 
Central Government hereby appoints Sarvashri G. Pullaiah and P. Srirangacharl 
to be Inspectors for the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu for the purposes oi 
the said Act and of any Scheme framed thereunder, in relation to anj 
establishment belonging to, or under the control of the Central Government or 
in relation to any establishment connected with a railway company, a major port, 
a mine or an oil field or a controlled industry. 

[No. A. 12015(5)/71-PF.I(i) .] 
fRevft, 2 fdRJRT, 19 71 

FTo WTo 3 468. — FRRrfr RfRSR fdftT 5Tk TTW TRR fafe RftTfdRR, 1952 
( 1952 FT 19) # ETTTT 13 dFHKI ( l) 5TTT RRrT UrfacPTf FT RRtR FTtt 
Ftr TTRR RTFTT T RR, vTRTTT trk 'idRTR RRTRR (RR Rk TTRRTT fRRPT) tfT FTfST- 
gw ?TW FTo ?TTo 61 1 1 ftffMT, 1970 Ft FftTFTTT FT^t |t[ TTTF1T 

tTT^snr Ttkr 5 ft o irm srk 'fto «ft FTmkt Ft trt fMttr % fktr trYv 
■Hdl C fFTft PfftR RTTkpft % ku{, RTFIT % fRTTWWTSfkT RT TR% PTTHd % 

*TRT£T if RT fFlft ^vTR FPpft, fFTft TSR FFT, fFTft *SR RT fFlft ?ITT sftvT RT fdTft 

' -a ' 

fdkfkT TFtT % TTRktTrT fdTft TRPFT % RTRTEf % RT^T dfRTT RTT TTW % fd^tSTF 
fFT'fd FTfr | I 


[Ro FT® tT— 12015(5)/7 1— ’ft ot[F— 1 (i) ] 




Sec- 3 (ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 4837 


S.O, 3469. — In exercise of file powers conferred by sub-section (1) of 
section 13 of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 
1952 (19 of 1952), the Central Government hereby makes the following amend- 
ment in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, 
Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment No. 

S.O. 2414, dated the 29th June, 1968, namely: — 

In the said notification for the words and letters “Sarvashri D. Vadivelu, 
M. C. Hirudayanathan” the words and letter “Sarvashri D, Vadivelu” 
shall be substituted. 

[No. A. 12016(6) /71-PF,I(ii).] 
*prto sgrro 3469. — vTvrfr vfspv My vV frtr fvH My tM-tht, 1952 
( 1 952 TT 19 ) M ETRT 1 3 M TTTtTRT ( l) 3TTT TTfT wfafPff FT SPTfa 
RTTTT HITT TOR % =TT, TfafiK Mf TfiTTR H WF-PT ( «TR nfh; TMlK fTfifO' ) 

Fft MM/tht tfw hto tt° 24 i 4 ,dfafa 29 th, 1968 *r Mrfaifad tMth fM) 
t, VHfa 

tht 5rfsrg; : TRmf ^ 'fafart ^>0 <tro ?ffa ^farrHTTHT’’ ^Vr srarf 

% FT FT TF T*? Vlr STSTT TfrTPTTfM faV TJTT | 

[tfwr TTo 1^— 12015(s)/7 1— 'fl’otr'K— 1 (ii) ] 
New Delhi, the 1th September 1971 

S.O. 3470. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees In relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Indian Red Cross Society, Coimbatore-18 have agreed that the provisions 
of the Employees’ Provident Funds Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of sec- 
tion 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment 

This, notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 
first day of November, 1970. 

[No. 8(295) /70-PF-1I,] 


7 fa-RPTL 1971 

spTo <910 34 7 0- — hd: M Mid ?tdT f fa HRR ; ffahH tV THT 

RPHT^r, x 8 HTTP FTTTH T EFTS' farflTT *rfa TTHlfM Tf HfHFHT FT 

HTTT 7 TTTTd fif |fa TfatKT TMt Mtl 5ftT dPGH RUTH fafa SlMfaT, 1952 
( 19 52 FT 19) HTfT FTTTH fat FTPJ. faf[ TT% Tlfftr | 

TPT:,W, M RTTT 1 M THRITT ( 4 ) JITTSHTd Trfapff FT 

srcftH ftM Miffa tttttrhtT tMhtt HTfrpTTTH 

JfiTdl | I 

rr^T'fa'gTHr 1970%HTPHT, % SETT far M Tfcl HTlft TfiM I 

[MtT 8 / 295 / 70 -TVo IT45-2] 

8,0, 3471, — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees In relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Wood Craft, Mallick Kashim Hat, Post Office Chinsurah, Hoogly have 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1932), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 




4838 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 [Part II- 


Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of sec- 
tion 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
sad Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 
thirtieth day of April, 1970. 

[No. S-35018(26)/71-PF.II.] 

RT 0 STT 0 3471. — m: %TstPT RRRTR Rt Spftd jfiRT | f% RRTR R® RTTEI , PiPW 
RRW %Z, ift€3 RlfRR fipfr RTRR PT1RR % tPRg: fRlflRR wV RRrilf T RT 

Rt Rf WT RTR TT Rj[RR Rf | % ^fR^T fhfd TER fafa 

srfsrf^m, 1952 (1952 ri 19) RRTREdr pth fRtjRiR RifW ; 

‘-RR: , 5T5T, RRH irftrfRirTTfrmTT 1%) RT8T1TT ( 4) 5T7T RRfT FlfTORT ‘■FI RRtR 

rt% |ct rtjrr r-trttt rfr ?rftrfRTR %rrrr rrttwptr r't itrrsto hpj;rtrI t i 

R5 RftnjRRT 1970 %'stfvT % RtRRfeRR'l 5TRR RRSfl RE^fl | 

[R 5 RT qrr -35018 ( 26 )/ 71 -TIoitt;o -2] 


S.O. 8472,— Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Mahindra'and Mahindra Limited, Employees’ Cooperative Canteen Society 
Limited, Narayan Nagar, Agra Road, Ghatkopar, Bombay-77 have agreed that the 
provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 
(19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of sec- 
tion 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
sad Act to the said establishment. 

This# notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 
thirtieth day of June, 1970. 

[No. S-35017(26)/71-PF. II.] 

RTo WIo 34 72 — 7R: R?fFR TOR R) RR RRfR ?>RT f, f'R #RR Rfp^T ^ 
rFr-ti fir Frit, Trrc Tii r Rt*rrq%fcR rttet ffpn^dr fafasR, rittrr rrt, *ipm 
tTt, TrRfrnr, 7 7 htrt 'w Rrrrj fdTTrr tfry TR^rrfyRi rt r|rwt tr 

RTR TTRJRR (T R$ f % RTRTft TfRER fRfg- ifhi RRIR <fvp’ fVfa wfafoRR, 19 52, 

( 1952 Ri 19) % RWST 3RR TTTTR Rt fRfT Rlf^t ; 

HR RT, RfR RfafaTR R> RTTI 1 R% RUHR ( 4 ) IT r I TIR FlfRRTf RI JTTR 
RRtf t ^-JlT’rRIR RTRRfJH'PT ^ RLPR ^TR *RTRT RI ^RRIlRr RfR RTRT | I 

RR wfdPJRTI 19 70% ^R R fftR^fRRR't TRtT RE™fV I 

[RRRT 350l7(2b)7l — TV 0 PR-2] 

S.O. 3473. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Laxmiraj Printers, A-38, Royal Optical Industrial Estate, Naigaum Cross 
Road Wadala, Bombay-31 have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ 
Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made 
applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of sec- 
tion 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
sod Act to the said establishment. 



Sec- 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 189^4839 


This! notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 
Thirty first day of August, 1970. 

[No. S-35017(27)/71-PF-lI.i 

Tdo Wfo 3 4 73. — EE; TENT ERFR Eft E| TETE flET | ft? Am TWi- lT fyEE 
E~38, TTEE E^EIE ’FIE ffe, ERET, E*E^ - 3 1 E1EET 

fW % E*EE tfix ETEETpEfi Eft EfESET ^E ETE TT E^EE ?T E^ | fV 

TETRi EfERfEfE EftT ETR3T TRIE fEfa EfaffiEE, 1952 ( 1 9 5 2 EE 19) % 

ETE?ST TEE EETTE Eft TEJ fEE, ETE EifiEf ; 

we: , EE, EEEEfafEEE Eft NET 1 Eft ET-ERT (4) EET REE' mftEET EE 
5TT HI TEE fff TEftE ETEET ETE EftrfEEE % ETE ; E EEU ET1TE Eft tTcREET “1^ 

eee[ I 1 

E^ EfEEEET 1970 ^SHRE % WdftEE f<R EE EExi EESfl ETT’ET I 

[EEET tTR o—35 017(27)/ 71— TTo^’Eo— 2 ] 

S.O. 3474.— In exercise of the powers conferred by first proviso to section 6 
of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1962), the Central Government, after making necessary enquiry into the matter, 
hereby specifies with effect from the 31st May, 1969, the establishment known as 
Messrs Lotus Knitting Industries, Orkay Compound, Kurla, Andheri Road, Saki 
Naka, Bombay-72, for the purposes of the said proviso. 

[No. S-35017(25)/71 PF-II(ii).] 
DALJIT SINGH, Under Secy. 

EE osn o 34 74.- -EREEft EfERfftfST 5flT ERIE TETEffffa EfsrfftEE, 19 5 2 
( 1 9 5 2 EE 19) Eft EET G T SITE 97^ ETT1 TSH EfEUEt EE TEE ERE gtr %EftE 
EEEET ^E fffcrff ft ETEEFfi ETE ER %ft ET TEMTr^ EEEERT #EE EfEE ffifsE 
EtRl TRTTRr, EE?, TFftfT TtT, ETEft 67 EE, E*Ef-72ETEE; EETTE 
ffft 3 1 e 4, 19 69 E 7ET TREE! % TEtEET ftlfEE fEfftfeR E.Trff | I 

[WI TE-3 5 0 1 7 ( 2 5 ) / 7 1-4V oIKfi o~H (ii) ] 
y'-l jOn [ft?, ®TER EfEE I 


(Department of Rehabilitation) 

((Mice of the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 


New Delhi, the 19 th August 1971 


S.O. 3475. — This office notification 
April, 1971, is hereby cancelled. 


No. 10(10)/Admn.lI/71, dated the 6th 
I [No. 10(10)/Admn.II/71.] 


(T*rcfE f*wr) 

ETE WiEfETE WT^TT EE EETfrlE 

ftyvff, 19 5FEE, 1971 


ERo tffo 3475. — ^E TTPTfEE Eft srfST^’E’dT EEETlO(lO) TJlfEE II/ 
71, 6 1971 fftvftfTE Eft 'ffilft ff I 


[ESET !0(lO)/'^fEE II/71] 




4840 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 [Part II— 


New Delhi, the 30 th August 1971 

8.0. 3476. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-section (i) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Com. & Reh.) Act, 1954 (44 of 1954), The Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri G. C. Mogha as Deputy Chief Settlement Com- 
missioher for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such Commis- 
sioners by or under the said Act, with immediate effect. 

[No. 5(4)/Ad\nu 11/701 
G. L. GUPTA, 

Settlement Commissioner (A) & 
Ex-Officio Under Secretary. 

dt ftssft 30 Wddd 1971 

WV 3478. — fdTdrfdd Sdfdd (ttfdTT d*TI *Tfijfddd 1954 

( 1 954 TT 44) STTCT 3 dWRT ( l) ddlT WfdddT TT JTdtd ddd gtr %dftd 
dW? TcT^TKT dWPd dto dtdl d'Td'fdtddd »TTddd fdijdd ®Rdt | drfr d 

TFT dTdf 4 ft Ti; Tf Til UT^-RTT % dd ^ fdd TTTtdd srfdfdiPT % hi 'SRPTd 

fdrsrrlTd fsptr ipT | 1 

[dW 5 ( 4 )tri?fdd II/ 70] 

af[ o t£ 5 f o dtRi, 

d^dTdfd W-im (WETd) ITT ltd TTTT dTdd I 


(Department of Rehabilitation) 

(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 

New Delhi, the 23rd August 1971 

S.O. 3477.— In exercise of the powers conferred on the Chief Settlement Com- 
missioner by Sub-Section (2) of Section 34 of the Displaced Persons (Compensa- 
tion and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 1954), he hereby delegates to Shrl S. N 
Bahl, Asstt., Settlement Commissioner in the office of the Regional Settlement Com- 
missioner (Central), New Delhi, the powers to hear (1) appeals under Section 23 
of the said Act and (ii) revisions under Section 24 of the satd Act, against orders 
passed by the subordinate authorities under the said Act In respect of properties, 
claims etc., from the State of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. 

[No. 5 (4)/AGZ/66.j 

W. G. PATHAK. 

Chief Settlement Commissioner. 

('Tddfa fa>TTd) 

wtddd «rrr vrqfatr) 

d$ fcptrft, 23 STdTd 1971 

’Tflo *0° 3477, — fWdfdd sdfdd (dfrm ddT ^d^fd") ^rftrfddd', 19 54 

(1954 dir 44) dft srnr 34 'tftdwpr (2) sft f% dvtliRd wr^r dft ddtd 

df ^ Trfdddt «FT ddtd dTTrT §TT d itr-o rdfo dfldd* dhiWW STFJdd, df fdddV 
fdFdfrrfdjd idf%dt Tdid ddT f^hTd'tt s^nd drtd 1 1 

(1) w ^rfdfddd dft mrr 23 % *rd% srpfdr ^d%df[ Trfdd 1 

( 2 ) W SfftrfddTT mdT 24 % 'ETdPtd Jd^Pd d/pt TV Slfdd I 

[dddT 5 ( 4 ) 'jft-o^y/ee] 

dTo d° dT5d> , 

JJ5T SEfTddd OT^dd I 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 4841 


MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND POWER 

New Delhi, the 16th August 1971 

S.O, 3478. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Electri- 
city (Supply) Act 1948 (54 of 1948). and in partial modification of this Ministry’s 
notification No. EL. II. 28(9)/71, dated the 20th July, 1971, the Central Govern- 
ment hereby appoints Shri P. G. Gokhale, Joint Secretary and Legal Adviser, 
Ministry of Law and Justice, as a Member of the Central Electricity Authority 
■vice Shri L. J. Manjrekar. 

[No. EL. II. 28 (9) /71. ] 
M. RAMANATHAN. 

Deputy Director (Power). 

fir * it fan r'sttht 

font, 16 5PTW, 1971 

qRo gffo 3478: — fasplfl (^fa) ^falwr, 1 948 ( 1 948 TT 54) 
trnr 3 iro in w Pett) Yr tut g?r «f k ftr w tt xrtvs 20 
1 97 1 nt nfifpfT RQTT fo tr^fo— Tf— 28 ( 9) /7 1 nf STiffl'P ^ 

?ittr trar^anrr «ft fr^ sfto ott>, tiit ufaT * Tfap fafsr tffr ript ttt- 

RT fifr rrq-o TTiTr % TT snfSTTT’T % fiKT % FT if 

fajJTfT nnff | I 

[ff» fo tT5To-Tt-28(9)/71.] 
TrTfim , 'TT fal wap I 


MINISTRY OF SHIPPING AND TRANSPORT 
(Transport Wing) 

Merchant Shipping 
New Delhi, the 28th August 1971 

S.O. 3479. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Seamen’s 
Provident Fund Act, 1960 (4 of 1966), read with paragraph 3 of the Seamen's 
Provident Fund Scheme, 1966, the Central Government hereby appoints Shri 
Bijoy Mukherjee, Assistant Secretary, National Union of Seamen oi India, Cal- 
cutta, as a member of the Board of trustees of the Seamen’s Provident Fund, and 
makes the following further amendment in the notification of the Government of 
India in the late Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation Department of Trans- 
port, Shipping and Tourism (Transport Wing) No, 2878, dated the 20th September, 
1960, namely: — 

In the said notification under the heading, ‘Members”, for Serial No 9 nd 
the entries relating thereto, the following Serial No, and entries shall be substitut- 
ed, namely:— 

“9. Shri Bijoy Mukherjee, Seamen’s representative.” 

[No. 5-MT(9)/71.] 
J. K. BHATTACHARYA, Dy. Secy. 

fi\X 

(ifWT <wt) 

>T^ faevff, 28 SPORT, 1971 

*rt o sn° 3479. — Trfrfi R-faw fafa 1966 t tti 3 ^ hft ifter firfar 
tifa^r fcfa srfsrfarff 1966 (i 96 gtt 4) tun 5 aro sran urfwfr ft srtftrr ^ 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 [Part II— 


Rumr ttcski «ft farT TfnT, rkt 

TT, TTWT, Td TlfW 'df%W fflflT i' 4 ' Tit TT T^T fatjTd spiff % *fk '<TT- 

TfutUT StH TER fTRTTT RTt^ET, Tfec.T, Tl^/T *fiT TO fWIT qST), 

*pf TfsnjTTT To 2878, fcli^ 2 0 fenST, T fT^fufau SI*T Ttl>«T TTcn &, 
tT-rfa : — 

TW Rfa^PTT, T RTUfi ?ftd*F % RrPTd ’PT RW 9 vFiJ. 7>T% T^ftlcf 5rfaf>2RT 
% fair fTRfrfel W RUTT wk srfafon TfcUTrfqd # TTtnft, ; — 

“ 9-^1 fsTTIT TgT 3 ft I TTfaTt TT 

sfdMj r 

[5-^° ( 9) / 7 1 ] 

# 0 ^o T^rrnr, tt tPtt i 


MINISTRY OF WORKS AND HOUSING 

New Delhi, the 29 th July 1971 

S.O. 3480. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
17 of the Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1952 (30 of 
1952), the Central Government hereby directs that the powers exercisable by it 
under section 6, section 7, section 8 [except clause (b) of sub-section (1)] and sec- 
tion 13 of the said Act shall be exercisable also by the Director of Estate Manage- 
ment, Department of Atomic Energy, Bombay, in respect of any property situated 
within his administrative jurisdiction provided that the power under the said 
section 8 in so far it relates to the fixing of compensation by agreement shall not 
toe exercised except with the previous concurrence of the Central Government. 

[No. 19014(2)/69-Pol,IV.] 


flUTi'T 3flT WTRTR RTlHR 

Tf 29 1971 

Wo 3480. — ■HURT lUrffT Tftrtr^vf SI^T SfftjffiTT, 1952(l952TT 
30) qftmTT 17 ^ TTSTRT ( l) JTTT SPTfT ufalETf TT TTtr JPTlf fir, RUUR 

tfaTW RfqfrTRsfttmT 6 , situ i, trt 8 [tmrhi ( i ) % nw (^} 
srh: ton 1 3 % 'spffr tr % tttt er vrfqmrf, Rnp-rspra- fn 4 9 1 tutt^ 
3ITr fdRTR, JUT T1 TT efV SIRTEfTn sriWlftfiT % tftRT fPTfd faltfV RTRfrf affV 
RWT TRlTUR 'Eft I T3TJ 7U STITT % STRtE TlfW R?[f RTT RR TTTRRST TTTTT SRI 5rfRTTTT 
ffiRT TTT R TOT Tff T#-RgRfR % f%TT SR^R Tiff Tf RT%ift I 

[R°/9o/4( 2 ) / 69 — 0 4*] 

S.O. 3481. — In pursuance of clause (b) of section 2 of the Requisitioning andl 
Acquisition of Immovable Property Act 1952 (30 of 1952) the Central Govern- 
ment hereby authorises the Director of Estate Management, Department of Atomic 
Energy, Bombay, in the State of Maharashtra to perform the functions of the com- 
petent authority under the said Act for the areas falling within his administrative 
jurisdiction, 

[No. 19014(2) /69-Pol.IVJ 
P. N. KHANNAH, 

Deputy Director of Estates & Ex-officio Under Secy- 



Sec. 3(il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 4843 


friowio 3481. — pmr trm f% wfarr^iT sftr sF^TsrferPm, 1952 ( 1952 TT 30 ) 

qfV STITT 2 % 3TT (<y) £ ?EJHTW ^fpT RT+TT U^T if, TUTU TTR fa^TT, 

TfrrrTT 3T3rf pRTFT TT SPUTA PpF RfTTTfTTfT % *pRT RTR RTR SETT % fair 

TUT -nfsrfTTT % STEfPl R5TR STTftTTTTt % l^ft TT TRET TRT % farr TEEJTTT STfep 

tl 

[lTo/9014( 2)/69-T>T 4.] 
c ft o tpi o <d si r, 
TTpft*FF, mTT TRT ltd TFUC RpdR I 


New Delhi, the 17 th August 1971 

S.O. 3482.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 50 
of the Delhi Development Act, 1957 (61 of 1957) read with clause (m) of sub- 
section (2) of that section and after consultation with the Delhi Development 
Authority, the Central Government hereby makes the following rules to amend 
the Delhi Development Authority (Maintenance of Current Account) Rules, 1959, 
namely: — 

1. Short title and commencement. — (1) These rules may be colled the Delhi 
Development Authority (Maintenance of Current Account) Amendment Rules, 
1971. 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the official 
Gazette. 

2. In the Delhi Development Authority (Maintenance of Current Account) 
Rules. 1959, in rule 2, for the words “rupees eight lakhs’’, the expression “rupees 
twenty five lakhs” (excluding balances in the Personal Ledger Accounts) shall be 
substituted. 

Wo. 2-21/60-UDI.] 
L. M. SUKHWANI, Under Secy. 

Rf 17 SPUR, 1971 

*T° WT° 3482. — ft^tPufTTR STfilPm, 1957 ( 1957«FT 6l) # tJTTT 56 
sfr WITT ( 1 ) % RUT Tft Tfft STITT *J?T TTSUTT ( 2) % 5DR (t) ffTTT STTrf wfertflr 
•FT jpfpr *FTcT |IT, ffiTrfevSft fam TTlfsnFTU % HTTRtf % ^qTTPT ATTTT TJfT^STTT 

f^tTrfr f^TrTr srrftnuT^i stjwt) Pm, 1959 t srfttR 

PimIrIuIR Petr dHTtfl : — 

1. sm sfaw R*TT BTTDT7T. — ( 1 ) fwff pETTR STTpPFTT (REJ 

^71 BMtSIT Pm, 1 9 7 1, *F§T 

( 2) # RWTT TTRW 1 5T*FTpTTR ^ # PtPt ?T RPJ iffP I 

2. fTTfr fTTUT snfij+'TJT W^T^TT) Pm, 1959, %Pm 2TI5T5? 

"snTifRTF'uF'T PtE T7 "25HKT TT&" (PdP vNT ifa TTpTRTf *Ft Bite ^T) 

stPitti Fur Ftttt m i 


[R° 2-2l/69-^ 3>] 
t^rp o TjTsr^Mt, sett: rPna i 



4 844 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971 /BHADRA 27 , 1893 [PART II— 


MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE 
(Department of Cooperation) 

New Delhi, the 18th August 1971 

S.O. 3483. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (I) of Sec- 
tion 4 of the Multi-Unit Cooperative Societies Act, 1942 (6 of 1942), and in 
supersession of the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Agriculture, (Department of Cooperation), No. F. 7-27/66-Coord, dated the 14th 
July, 1971, the Central Government hereby appoint Shri K. S. Bawa, Joint 
Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture (Department of Co-operation), as the 
Central Registrar of Cooperative Societies. 

[No. 7/27/66-Coord.] 
PRIYA PRAKASH, Dy. Secy. 


(sr^wnfrm ftwr) 

fit fewft, 18 SPUR, 1971 

tjflo ssffo 3483. — 1942 ( 1942 "FT 6) 
"Ft IT ITT 4 A(fY ^•T-Erru ( 1 ) IDT STTfT TT "FTR TUT 'fifTT TTPFR % fifa 

(R^rirdT f"UTPT) "Ff ^rftr^UTT FW ITT 7/27/66-Tfini, dlfra 1 4 UTHlf 
1971 T( 5rr«TTr-d TUT ^7 %^ET RUFrrjiFfa JT^TFPT ( ^fiTTfCTT fTfiET) tr RifET ufad 
ssft %o 7fio dTTf FT UfFITT RlBTjfeTr % "F-fiF F FT if IJ3P5IRT ffiFFT FTcfr 

I' 

[M 7/27/66-^^] 
fw 5TFTU, ITT TTf^d I 


MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS 
(Railway Board) 

New. Delhi, the 20th August 1971 

S.O. 3484. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 82B of the Indian 
Railways Act, 1890 (Act IX of 1890), the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shri P. Basu retired Chief Judge, City Civil & Session Court, Calcutta, as a 
whole-time Claims Commissioner to deal with the claims for compensation aris- 
ing out of the accident involving 103-UP Diamond Harbour — Sealdah Local 
(EMU) Train between MAGRA HAT and HOTAR Stations on the Sealdah Divi- 
sion of the Eastern Railway on the 6th July, 1971. His headquarters will be at 
Calcutta. I 

[No. E(D)II 71/API/6.] 
V. P. SAWHNEY, Secy. 


( ) 

2 0 WOW, 1971 

l» 8 o 5 T>° 3484 —' RTCrftF LST srfllfdTPT, 1890 ( 1890 "FT srfafRRR 9 "tfV 9 TTT 
8 2 -JJ 3 TTT 5 f^U Frfejf FT SPfPT F’U fir jpfSffa RUFR 7 cTy 3 TTT FFT fafFN 7 ? R¥T?H 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 4845 


ritrmMT, % Wr fortr 'fTo srj, *rt ttR ^ ftETTRirf 

WIT £ RW fR STR fflZT ?2 rrT TT sfR, 6 SRlf, 1971 'FT 1 03 FFT ¥FTW ?T#T-- 
fWWg WFTfa (f^RfT) ’lift % RP-f Tfef StTTRT % WTWT 33# 31% SSlfd’jfTT $T 
3FTf % fRSRT*: % fPTCr, yJFEifw gFTT iTIffcT foPid TP/ft | I 

[WIT $ (scft) II/7 l/‘-»=5T ft i/e] 

#5 5TW.T5T RT^-Tl, pf^'T | 

MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Banking) 

New Delhi, the nth August 1971 

S.O. 3485. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949), the Central Government, on the recommenda- 
tion of the Reserve Bank of India, hereby declares that the provisions of section 
9 of the said Act shall not apply to the Catholic Syrian Bank Ltd., Trichur, till 
the 1st August, 1972, in respect of the immovable property held by it at Thoppum- 
pady, Palluruthy, Cochin, Ernakulam District, Kerala State. 

I [No. F. 15(20)-BC/71 J 

(tftfR ftPTET) 

R# fetfT, ] 7 SBRcT, 19 71 

3485. — ?F%trf¥dWT stfalWR, 1949 (l949 TTdTBTt) ^T ETTTT 
5 3 % SHT JTTfT TlfTrETf W SPT>T TPT §tr, -mXcT WER, RTCcfTiT ftyTT shp 4?T fimfw IT 
^cK£HI TiftcT TPrft | f% RTTLTtlfilfdTPT dJ RTCT 9 % TV Tpf?f?RT RTfnpT 

TP (pfEHT, TT, BTFFT <ft gRTSt, WfWT, PRPT, faRTT tnrTfTBT, %BFT TiPR ft'PT 
!TW Wlfyr % WRT F 5PR7T, 1 972 W RRJ d?fT ft# I 

[WIT 15 ( 20 )^ 0 ^ 0 / 71 ] 
New Delhi, the 27 th August 1971 

S.O. 3486. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949), the Central Government on the recommenda- 
tion of the Reserve Bank of India, hereby declares that the provisions of sub- 
clause (i) and (il) of clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the said Act, 
shall not apply to Frontier Bank Ltd., New Delhi till the 6th June, 1972, or till 
the date of Its conversions into a non-banking Company/ winding up of its affairs, 
whichever is earlier, in so far as the said provisions prohibit its Chief Executive 
Officer from being the Managing Director of the Gola Private Ltd., Delhi. 

[No. F, 15(13)-BC/71.] 

27 SRRTT, 1971. 

’?TT o 3 4 8 6— frf'RRFT $rfsrfiBf*T, 1949 ( 1949 TT TRdt) =£T RHT 53 5RT 
STCcT HlftVFiT TT TTPT TR7T ^ TTRTT, RTCdtT ftRaf #TfT qff fawfTTT IT Ud^SKI 
NTfad TP# $ BTR ITfafiERT RfV tHTT 1 0 4?T BT-RTTT ( 1 ) $ (*l) % OTII 

(i) sfk (ii) % w? tsfen: w ?RfT it, ^ fw br jttot t spflwnr 
BTifW % trw +RT+l{l SffT iftRT 5TrS#£ IhIri!!, f#5vfT TT THIN fa#¥PF TR# 

% Tt«PHT 6 3R 1 972 W (W T BR RlfTn W 3TW #47 #T%T id 1 !#) if qft«iJdd 

?T '3TBT ITPTT sfTRf RRFR *pr #, TElf dl-OsfT R R 7fT rT ft, BR W RBJ ^T I 

[ro lT9ioi5( 13 ) -TfTotfTo/ 71 ] 



.Neio Delhi, the 28 th August 1971 

S. O. 3487. — Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India, as on the 20th August 1971. 

Banking Department 


LIABILITIES Rs. ASSETS Rs. 


Capital Paid Up 5,00,00,000 Notes 20,51,984x33 

Rupee Coin 4)353°°° 

Reserve Fund 150,00,00,000 Small Coin . 3,54,000 

Bills Purchased and Discounted: — 

National Agricultural Credit (LongTerm Operations) Fund . 190,00,00.000 (a) Internal . 8,54,89,000 

(b) External ........ 

National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation) Fund . . 39,00,00.000 (c) Government Treasury Bills 58,59^1,000 

Balances Held Abroad* .... 147,3566,000 

Investments** 220,38,184x50 

National Industrial Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund. . 1354x5,00,000 Loans and Advances to: — 

(i> Central Government . 

|(ii) State Govcmments@ 183,46,68,000 

Loans and Advances to : — 

Deposits. - — j(i) Scheduled Commercial Banks f . . . 130,66,90,000 

(a) Government (ii) State Co-operative Banks-f-J- . . . 220570,374x10 

(i) Central Government .... 53)22,534x0 (in) Others 3,64,304x0 

(n) State Governments . ..... 4,174084x0 Loans, Advances and Investments from National Agricultural 

Credit (LongTerm Operations) Fund. 

(b) Banka j| (a) Loans and. Advances to : — 

(0 Scheduled Commercial Banks. .... 199,17,60,000 (i) State Governments ...... 42,02,72,000 

(ii) Scheduled State Co-operative'Banks. . . 8,58,87,000 (ii) State Co-operative Banks 23,21,13,000 

(in) Non-Schedukd State Co-operative Banks. . . 82,21,000 (iii) Central Land Mortgage Banks. ... 


(iv) Other Banks. ....... f5o,S 1,000 (b) Investment in Central and Mortgage Bank Deben- 
tures 10,14,98,000 

Loans and Advances from National Agricultural 
Credit (Stabilisation) Fund. .... 


jg 46 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971 /BHADRA 27 , 1893 [Part II 



(c) Others .... 

Bills Payable .... 

Other Liabilities^ 1 

Rupees 

‘Includes Cash, Fixed Deposits and Short-term Securities. 

“Excluding Investments from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund and the National Industrial Credit (Long Term 
Operations) Fund- 

(^Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund, but including temporary ovcidialis to 
State Governments. 

tlnciudes Rs- 86,41,00,000 advanced to scheduled commercial banks against usanceLills under Section 17(4) (c) of theReserveBank of India Act 
tfExcluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fi nd and the National Agricultural Credit 
(Stabilisation) Fund. 

Dated the 25th day of August, 1971. 


Loans and Advances to State Co-operative Bants . 13,67,41,000 

Loans, Advances and Investments from National Indus- 

193.63.63.000 trial Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund — 

(a) Loans and Advances to the Development Bank 55,29,21,000 

40.37. 16.000 (b) Investment in bonds/debentures issued by the 

Development Bank .... 

152.32.62.000 Other Assets ... ... 33, 90,46,000 

1 172,22,57^00 Rupees 1172,22,57,000 


Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 4847 


An Account pursuant to the RESERVE BANK OF INDIA ACT, 1934, for the week ended the 20th day of August, 1971. 

Issue Department. 

LIABILITIES Rs. Rs. ASSETS Rs. Rs. 


N otes held in the Banting Department. 
Notes in circulation . 

Total Notes Issued. 


20,51,98,000 

Gold Coin and Bullion : — 


(a) Held in India. . ... 

182,53,11,000 

4312*45,41,000 

Cb) Held outside India 



4332,97,39,000 

Foreign Securities. .... 

223*42*00,000 


Total 

• - 405,95. Il .ax> 


Rupee Coin . 

44,06,48,000 


Government of India R upee S ecur ities . 

3882,95,80,000 


Internal Bills of Exchange and other Com- 
mercial paper. ... 


Total Liabilities. 


4332,97=39,coo Total Assets. 


4332,97,39,ooo 


(Sd.) S. Jagannathan, 

J ated the 25th day of August, 1971. Governor. 

[No, F. 3(3 )-BC/ 7 i] 

K. yESURATNAM, Under Secy. 


4848 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 [Part II- 



^rffe^fr, 28 ?r<T^r, 1971 


348 7. — 20 !TTCT 197 l 17] f<7T4 '5TTO ^feFlT ^ £1%^ f-TRTT ^ ^nrfjnT ^TT f'TfT'J]' 


^rarnr 

<>H"4 

iriferai 

^qrr 

^fKTT^ 

5,00,00,000 

>1 Ii .... 

20,5 1,98,000 

STRfacf ftrfe . . 

150,00,00,000 

?>T 

4,35,000 



tekl fWl 

3,54,000 

(fmr^Rfwtf) Mg- . 

190,00,00,000 



frfa 


(^) 

8,54,89,000 

(fpRHTur ) -fafa 

39,00,00,000 

(«r) 

« ♦ . 

<1 fcito yWl fH+' 


(*T) ^ropTTT ^TRT 

58,59,81,000 

fwq) Mh . 

135,00,00,000 

M?ft R WT f?TT ^pmT* 

1 47,35,66,000 

TlfsRlf : — 



220,38,1 8,000 

{4 ;) 7p?ott] 


?flx ?rfinT : — 


(i) 

53,22,53,000 

(i) tJT+TT T T 


(ii) 

4,17,08,000 

(ii) =Ft@ 

183,46,68,000 

(g-) f^r 


: — 


(i) ?Ffgf^T ttPtht tm 

199,17,60,000 

(i) 5H^p4T TfTt 5Ft I 

130,66,90,000 

(ii) inj^fcrcTTr^r 


(ii) ^9)1 ft 

220,70,37,000 

^r^Frrft tr . . 

8,98,87,000 

(iii) . 

3,64,30,000 

(HI) TC TT^T ¥^+R] ^ . 

82,21,000 




SEC. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 4849 



srrfei*rr 




(iv) 


(q) ?rj 
I fa'ffeT 






TTffrq srteftfirai (*fef qnsffe fw^ ) farfe t 
^r, ^RrofeYr f^x 
{^) ^®r sfh srfinr 

(i) TT^ TEFTTt TT . . . 42,02,72,000 

(ii) <1^ 23,21,13,000 

(iii) ti'^Ti 4 Tfa ttt “Ft . 

(g) 6 fWy +■ ttt % M- qf I it farm 10,14,98,000 

u^rq' fft ^ur (ferct'FT'ir) 

^jnftr srfim 

tt?t rr^+iff ffef fe wm ?rfa vfyw. 13,67,41,000 
Tpetr irWlfjr+' *e®r (<fefan?rfa faPTnt)faTfa ft 
wn, qfc (h<vi 

(qr) fa+TO tt qrr ^ sftr feim 55,29,21,000 

(^) few qfe sttt sort fer t[tt ^ trf/r§^'<T if fafeo 

3TSJT 4TI fi^TJJ i *1*1 Grt A ii 


50,81,000 


193.63.69.000 
40,37, 16,000 

152.32.52.000 


1 172,22,57,000 1 172,22,57,000 

* w*ret , *rr<fa4; ^rr ?ffe ?Twrqrrwfe irfferfferr ?nfw f i 

** ■'.I *A £ifa {'{faTKlfa fro? ) falsi fefa <l<*|fa ill -j": P I f. (^14'M'jfl'l fa*9lH ) fa fa T ^ffetr JfTT fa^ t!hfa<rl ^ i 

@TTEffe^fa (sfwsffe fwnO faf& t %U ?rfiPT sriftrT ;rfr f, tw w<+r0i ^ srEqrf feT<jiT£ ’arfaw 1 1 

t ferr ffe qro tifafaq^ qft mrr 17 ( 4 ) (w) % q#i <^4 f>n q»> Efarft ffeff qw few fro; ^ 86 , 41 , 00,000 

wrfaw f 1 

1"f fifa ^i’-4 fai9 1 7 ) fa fa 4fl 1 Trwfer $fa (fferotmT ) fa fa ^ m fa h sii[*h •t^Y ^ 1 

aTfl^- 2 5 5T-I^r 1971 


4850 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 2 /, 1893 [Past H— 



HIT r' fe'TT ?TfsTfTT8 , 193 4%?rpn7T#?nTF,T 1971 ^fr 2 0fTT^^?nTRr|^?r : ^Tf%f^ f^gr 





frro 


^sTcTP^ 



yifwof toit 


#f5fr»r f^srnr R fir Tfe 

fWM T if mTT 

20,5 1,98,000 

43,13,45,41,000 


TT% TT ftit'Ti 1 il^T : — 

(7>) HroiBWT|?I7 182,53,11,000 

(^) nTCT%n^rwTf?n 

223,42,00,000 


TKt itT T5T TtJ 


4332,97,39,000 

f»i^ TfT frr+tii 

irm B73fR ^T^cmsif^lTPTf 
^sft frfiPT 1 ! fer *ftr 

3lT<|5it 7 ^ 

405,95,1 1,000 

44,06,48,000 

3882,95,80,000 


7T?T ^ d f l| 

4332,97,39,000 

wrferirf 

4332,97,39,000 


rirtV« 25 sftct 1971 

(f°) ^Fr^nr, 1 

[tfo l^Co 3 ( 3 )-^To #0/71] 

#0 ^^nr, 1 


Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADJtA 27, 1893 485 I 



4852 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 [Part II— 


(Department of Banking) 

New Delhi , the 19th. August 1971 

S.O. 3488. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 53 read with Sec- 
tion 50 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949), the Central Government, 
on the recommendation of the Reserve Bank of India, hereby declares that the 
provisions of sub-section (1) of Section 11 of the said Act shall not apply to the 
undernoted cooperative banks for a further period of one year from 1 March 1971 
to 29 February 1972: 

(1) The Chandigarh Starte Co-operative Bank Ltd., Chandigarh. 

(2) The Raichur District Industrial Cooperative Bank Ltd., Raichur. 

(3) The Kamrup District Central Cooperative Bank Ltd., Gauhati. 

(4) The City Cooperative Bank Ltd., Bombay. 

' [No. F. 15-6/71 ACII.] 

Tf ftwft, 19 5BTTff, 1971 

sfto 3488. — -tPfPT faftUTd STfaftUT, 1949 (l949 «fT 1 0 Tf) 

OTTT 56’% RT«T ifeT RITT 53 % sTHT STTff Wfacftt sftft 37# RUtfrT, 

ft# trr # ftq?rft!r qr, ftftT ttHT | ft; ^ ftyftur # 

EJTCT 11 # 77-Enn (1 ) % R<UFtI tTsrtftftd RfTirft 9T 1 Rft, 1971 f 29 
qrcrfftf 1972 rt # <ft # srfaftfcr mfo % fftf hit fBf : — 

( 1 ) 7ft TiRiqtftr 

(2 ) TTZpSjT ftf #43 TT 

(3 ) # r-jt Tmrfftf# ft ftfaft, Rftftt 

(4 ) 4t fR# T/l iTTqyfft ft ftfaft, 5TRlf 

[ftlTifto 1 5-6/7 1-iTo II] 

New Delhi, the 23rd August 1971 

S.O. 3489. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 53 read with Sec- 
tion 56 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949), the Central Government, 
on the recommendation of the Reserve Bank of India, hereby declares that the 
provisions of sub-section (1) of Section 11 of the said Act shall not apply to the 
undernoted cooperative banks for a further period of one year from 1 March 1971 
to 29 1 February 1972: 

1. The Mitra Mandal Sahakari Bank Ltd., Indore 

2. The Baranagore Cooperative Bank Ltd., Baranagore, Calcutta. 

3 The Vishvakarma Cooperative Bank Ltd., Bombay 

4. The Malvan Cooperative Urban Bank Ltd,, Malvan 

[No. F. 15-0/71 ACII.] 
II. D. KATARIA, Dy. Secy. 

ft ftftt, 23 SfW, 1971 

3f,o 3489. — tfft ftlW RfftHRR, 1949 (l949 *ffT lORt) 

ft RTU 56 % RT7 qfft TUT 53 % 3KT TffT Tift#! Tl fttR ftf ftlfft 
rtttt Rrefft ft# ft ft qr ftfft sfrr?fY % ft rtr Rfftm 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OE INDIA; SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 4853 

^ WTTT 11 TT-RHI (1 )% Tqspff RTT, 1 971, 29^7?^, 1972 BT # 
TE WT Tt M f-lf •'■T i TTfsr % fa* .MlffcT B?^TPft #TT TT TIB fBT :■ — 

1 . fw TP^T RgTpV ^ fa fHd ' j : ^ 1 t 

2 . TST RiftT Tt5nq^f3Sf % firfJTZT. TTm'iT, TTOTT 

3 . fTTrcTi TT srigf 

4. TTraTET T.^TlTTfST SR-f RlvfTH I 


[ffo tT^o 15-fi/71'lTo RTo-II] 
tTTo R^TlTqT, I 


(Department ol Revenue and Insurance) 

Income-Tax 

New Delhi, the 7th July 1971 

S.O. 3490- — In pursuance of sub-clause (li) of clause (a) of sub-section ( 1 ) of 
Section 138 of Income-tax Act, 1901 (43 of 1961), the Central Government hereby 
specifies the Cone Commissioner, U.P. for the purposes of that sub-Clause. 

[No. 2122 (F. No. 397/36/71-ITCC).] 

(TTUV* tfklfoTT fRHPi ) 


(tet-tt ) 

7 %mi, 1971 

SRfo 3490. — snwrsrfkfrzDT, 1 961 (l961 s fT43) qft STITT 138 
^TTtrrrr ( 1 )% m («f)% (n %?iftaTRTTRTTq''3'T% arifmf 

% fT'T (T.j^Rr ntn wr^TT, ttcsrst fr fTfafTT Trfr 1 1 

[To 212 (t»T° ii» 3 9 7/36/71-mf €\ € y (ft] 

New Delhi, the 7th July 1971 

S.O. 3491. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-clause (ili) of Clause 
(44) of Section 2 of the Income-tax Act, 1901 (43 of 1901) the Central Government 
hereby authorises Shrl I, C. Shukla who is a Gazetted Officer of the Central 
Government to exercise the powers of a Tax Recovery Officer under the said Act. 

2. This Notification which supersedes Notification No. 90 (F. No, 404/88/71/ 
ITCC) dated 24th March, 1971, shall come into force with immediate effect. 

[No. 225 (F. No. 404/86/71-ITCC).] 

S. K. LAL, Dy. Secy. 

fSRft, 21 T[STTf, 1971 

(jRo 'Ri o 3491. — STfftfftnT, 1961 ( 1961 TT 43) qft EITG 2 % 

^rry (44) % TWT (iii) £TTT 5 TSTT jrfwft *PT OTfr Jfrft gTT, 'HVt.R 

wto fj^rr qfr, afr (Totr vr tmihIW 'frfsmft - srfftfwr $ 

iRiftR RTT wfswrft qft flfqdRl TT STtT ^ fair PcTTiifTTT' TrffffM RTrft | I 



4854 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 [Past Tl— 


*Tfsrg^nT, iff wfa^RT #0 96 (»FTo tfo 404/86/ 7 l-WTf° ^ ifto ) 

dT° 24-3-71 «f?t WftPfiRr 9Thft fUTT ?>tV I 

(5 225 loRo 404/86/71*tI^€rft)] 
%o HTK, tT t 

(Department of Revenue and Insurance) 

Income-Tax 

New Delhi, the 26 th July 1971 

5.0, 3492. — In exercise of the powers conferred toy sub-section (2) (b) of Section 
BOG of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central Government hereby 
notifies Thirupapullyur Shri Pataleeswarar Temple, Guddalore-2 to be a place of 
public worship of renown for the purpose of the said section, 

[No. 231/F. No. 170/24/71-IT(AI).] 

(mr** ?f\T tftai famn) 

df fcvtft, 26 IRTf, 1971 

wo 3492 . — weept wfaffem, i 96 i (19614T43) 4 ft strt so- 
9?t TTOT7T 2(^r) STTT RTH TTfawfi IT Spft*T *fT77t gir, 4l<-stT WEFTT, TW STITT % 
smm % feu fireTifTTT «rt qm?ft«n:K Rfnr, fTsfeU -2 tT dFfefdr 'j^rr qr 
few POTT % ^9 F rry^aiTT wfegfed «PTfft £ I 

[STo 23l/T5ToRo 176/24/7 l-Wio€to (ho l)] 

5.0. 3493.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) (b) of 
Section BOG of the Income-tax Act, 1901 (43 of 1981), the Central Government 
hereby notifies thei following temples to be places of public worship of renown 
for the purpose of the said section. 

1. Shri Drighvishujl Ka Mandir, Bharatpurgate, Mathura. 

2. Shri Veer Bhaddeshwarji Ka Mandir, Gali Peer Panch, Mathura. 

[No. 232/F. No. 170/7/71-IT(AI).T 
B. MADHAVAN. Under Secy. 

qRo Wto 3493. — WERT wfaffeW, 1961 (1961*143) «tft STUB 0-® 
BWU ( 2) (w) 3TTT WTU Hlffenfl *T 5ETET *Tt gtr, fcdfrT WEFTT, T4T OTTT 
5Hfmf % ftpr fferfefeT Efcpf Tit EEfafe* ^TT % few TTTT % *9 
srffejfed *Trft | I 

1. «ft ftprEp^jsfr *r Rffec, fe:, wjtr i 

2. sfr tftT wi^Ercfft *t Rftrr, nsfr 'ffe q'w, tejtt i 

[do 232/9)10 do 17 6 / 7 / 7 l-WTto #0 (fro l)J 
jfto mm, wtt dfad t 



Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 4855 


Central Board' of Direct Tazea 
Ihcomi-Tax 

N‘u> Delhi, the i$thjune, 1971 

S. O. 3494. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 121 of the 
Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central Board of Direct faxes hereby makes the 
following amendments to the schedule appended to its notification No. 20 (F No. 55/1/62-IT) 
dated the 30th April 1963 published as S.O. 1293 on pages 1454-1457 of the Gazette of India 
Part-II Section 3 sub-section (ii) dated the nth May, 1963 as amended from time to time. 

Existing entries under columns (1), (2) and (3) against S.No. 2 & S.No. 2A shall be substi- 
tuted by the following entries: 


Income-t ax 

Headquarters 

Jurisdiction 

Commissioners 



I 

2 

3 


* . Andhra Pradesh-I Hyderabad 1. Circle-Ill, Hyderabad 

2. Special Circle-I, Hyderabad. 

3. t alary Circle, Hyderabad 

4. Srikakulam 

5. Visakhapatnam 

6. Company Circle, Hyderabad 

7. Vizianagaram 

8. Anakapalle 

9. Rajahmundry 

10. Amalapuram 

11. Circlc-I, Rakinada 

12. Circlc-II, Rakinada 

13. EJuru 

14. Palakol 

15. Tanuku 

16. Vijayawada 

17. Machilipatnam 

18. Gudivada 

19. Tax Recovery Circle, Hyderabad. 

20. T iix Recovery Circle Vij ayawad a 

2 1 . Tax Recovery Circle, Neilore. 

22. Estate Duty-curn- Income-tax Circle, Hyderabad. 
25. Estate Duty-Income-tax Circle, Kakinada. 
24. Estate Duty-cww-Income-tax Circle, Guntur. 

2A. Andhra Pradesh- II Hyderabad. 1. CircIe-IJ, Hyderabad. 

2. Special Circle-H, Hyderabad. 

3. Project Circle, Hyderabad. 

4. Nizantabad 

5. Sangareddy 

6. Nirmal 

7. Circle-I, Hyderabad. 

8. W arrange] 

9. Khammam 

10. Kothagudem 

11. Guntur 

12. Karimnagar 
13- Ten ah 

14. Bapatla 

13. Neilore 
16. Chittoor 
1 7- 1 irupati 

18. Cuddapah 

19. Proddatur 

20. Anantapur 

21. Hindupur 



4856 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER IS, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 [Part II— 
1 2 3 

22, Kurnool 

23. Nandyal 

24. Adoni 

25, Mahabunagar. 

This notification shall take effect from 15-6-1971. 

[No, 190/F. No. TS7/3/70-TT (A)], 
B. MADHAVAN, Under Secy. 

lf ( W 

(wm-vr) 

15 1971 

3494. — qf afffTH , 1961 (1961 TI 43) "f^UKr 121 

^V^'Tmrr ( 1) gucr 5 r?n i?rfamfr ^rr sFftff ^ gtT srhw wk 

!lftrgw ^0 2 0(9110 I3o 55 / 1/62 ffKtg- 30 wfar, 1963, 3ft VTRxT ^ 

TTSIffeT ffrfta 1MT$, 1963, VPT 2, W 3,3>T- : anw(ll)% 'ps 1454-175 71T "PTotlTo 

sr^nt 

if fftlftJR- tfTSOTf t I 

’wfto 2*ftr 2«rr % *mrft ; frrnr (i), (2) tfk (3) jrftrfeff 

% fair fffrffftrftjff srfaftCTf tfsFrrf'iff »tft ^rpftft : 

SfTWT 5TET4T T[WW sriwfTTT 

( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) 

2— STFST 5 l^T?r- 1 ] gfflTMIff 1-Hfer 3 |T<HW 

2- frrrr #r-i 

3- WT &4TWTT 

4 - 

6- rrPTfi trfw, F^rumr 

7 - fWFFTTT 

8 - 5 Fmrft 

9- <KI^/V 

i o-swtpjtt 
i i-afe[ i ^Ttf^rrsT 
1 2 -«fo*r 2 'PT'ffftWT 

13- t^C 

1 4 — TTMThlM 





Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 4857 


(1) (2) (3) 

1 5— 

1 8 — ^pftnyi 

1 9 — ^ r 

2 o-*ft sfW, fomrrr 

2 i-*pt BfW, HMik 

22-t'W^t ^rnr-HTi: bItt, 

2 3-BW^pFt^T BTB-'PT Bf%BT, BRT*(fVfTr5T 
24-BTTT <7* STI5-5T Bl%T, 

2V WFSrH^ST 2 . $3X1515 1-TfeT 2 $3TRT5 

2 - faifa Bfasr 2 ^TT*rre 

3- ^Tft^rBf'TO', forrarrc 

4- ^,51515 

5- BT^ 

6- MfT 

7- Bfef 1 $5x1515 

8 - TTXW 
9_jgnrrtr 

1 fMSft6T<j;¥B 

1 i-tOb^r- 

12- 572X 

1 3 — 

1 4- aprrc<5rT 

1 5— 

1 e-'fejT 

17 - lwrfB 

18- fTT<TT 

1 9- sft^r 3T 

2 0-ABTXBp: 

21- %52^ 

22- fXJH 
2 3— 

2 4- — : 

2 5-q?^ H1JT 

^ ^ftr^TTT 15-6-1971 ft T5YT tftBt I 

[fto 190 /Wo Bo is 7 / 3 / 7 o-trrf 0^0 (ito 1 )} 

ftt# BTffTB, BBT Bfftx l 



4858 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 [Part H — 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance) 

(Office of the Commissioner of Income-tax, Vldharbha and Marothtyada) 

Nagpur, the 10th March 1971 

S. O, 3495. — Whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that it is necessary and 
expedient in public interest to publish the names and other prtlculars of the assessees : — 

(1) being individuals of Hindu Undivided Families, who have been assessed on an income 
of more than one lakh of rupees ; 

(ii) being Firms, Association of persons of Companies who have been assessed on an income 
of more than io lakhs of rupees ; 

during the flnanclaTyear 1969-70 and has, therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by section 
287 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (43 of 196O, directed that the names and other particular of the 
assessees aforesaid be published, the same are hereby published in Schedules I and II hereto 
annexed: — 

Schedule I 

NamesofallindividualsandH.U.Fs.asseBsedonincomeof overRs. ilakh duringthe financial 
year 1969-70. 


S. Name and address of the assessee Status Asstt.Yr. Income 

No. assessed 

under 
Income tax 
Act, 1961 


1 


2 


3 4 5 


1 ShriB, D. Thapar, C/oM/s Sunil Construe- Individual 
tion Co., Ramdaspeth, Ngp. 

3 Shri Zocb S. Vali C/o M/n.Sudiq & Co.. Mo- Individual . 
unt Road, Extn., Nagpur. 

3 Shri Mohd. S. Vali, C/o M/s. Sadiq & Co. Individual 

Mount Road, Exten., Nagpur. 

4 Shri Sadiq Bhai C/o M/s. Sadiq & Co. Mount Individua 1 . 

Road, Extn., Nagpur. 

5 Shri D. S. Kharabe, Ghat Road, Nagpur. . Individual . 

6 Shri AshgaraliHassanall, Loha Oil, Nagpur. Individual 

7 ShriBallumal Aildas C/o. M/s. Aildas Khan Individual 

chand and c/o. GandhibaSh, Ngp. 

8 Shri AbdullabhaiHasaanali, C/o M/s. Abdul Individual 

Hussain M. Alibux Loha Oil, Nagpur. 

9 Shri B.D. Thapar C/o M/s. Sunil Construe- Individual 

tion Co. Ramdaspeth, Nagpur. 

10 Shri G. M. Chitnavis Mahal, Nagpur. Indidual 


11 The Officer Incharge, Court of Wards in the H.U.F. 

case of Raje Raghjirao and Co. Mahal Nag. 

12 ShriKimmatramP/oM s. Kimatram Radha- Individual , 

kishan and Co. Gandhibagh, Nagp. 

13 Shri Hiranand P/o M/s Kimatram Racha- Idivldual 

kishan & Co. Gandhibagh, Ngp. 

14 Shri Pappumal c o M s Kummatram Radha- Individual 

kishan & Co. Gandhbagh, Nagp. 

15 Shri B.P. Kanoria, Gandhibah, Nagpur. . Individual 


16 MohanlalMotilal Subhash Road, Nagpur. . 

17 Shri Dabiat sing a Itwaci, Nagpur 

18 Smt, RatanbaiForwalKamptee 

19 ShiiNcmkumarPorwalKamptcc 

ao Shri Mahijibhai Bhailabhai, Gondia’ . 

21 Shri Chunnilal Hir jee Wadera, Gonda. . 


H. U, F. 

Individual 

Individual 

Individual 

Individual. 

Individual. 


Rs. 


1967-68 

1,18,169 

1965-66 

1,56.667 

1965-66 

1,04,49! 

1965-66 

1,06,208 

1965-66 

1,20,833 

1965-66 

iy63-66 

4,35,676 

1,82,108 

1 965-66 

4,57,223 

1968-69 

1,67,323 

1965-66 

1,42,026 

1964-65 

1,31,250 

1965-66 

3,17,773 

1965-66 

2,67,44 

1965-66 

3,09,547 

1965-66 

1,15,873 

1965-66 

1956-57 

1965-66 

1965-66 

1967-68 

1965-66 

2,17,645 

1,01,564 

1,19,632 

2,61,183 

1,17,315 

1,01,063 






Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 4859 


x 


2 


22 Shr Raijibhai.Dhoribhai, 

Gondia 

23 Shri D. P. Ral, 210 Laxmlnagar, . 

Nagpur ... I 

24 Shri Jagatnaren GoyalP/oM/s. Mah- 

avir Oil Mills Sltabuedi Nagpur.. 

25 Shri P.B. Mundhada, 

Sltabuldl. Nagpur. 

26 Shri Y. A. Khare 

Dharampeth, Nagpur 

27 Shri R. M. Tarkunde Pram Road, Nagpur 

28 Shri Shcvadanmal Architect, Ghatate 

Chamber Nagar, 

29 Shri Hariram Mayaram, Darwha 

30 Shri RamkrishnaBajaj, Wardha 

31 Shri G. G. Patel Ghandraput 

32 Shri Kisanlal Bajoria, Akola 

33 Shri Kishanlal Bajolra, Akola . 

34 Shri Ganeshlal Rekchandj Akola 

35 Shri Seth Gopaldas Mohata, Akola . 

36 ShriSeth Gopaldas Mohata, Akola . 

37 Shri Mohanla'. Shankarlal, Akola 

38 Shri ChunilalNathmal, Nandura 

39 Shri G. V. Saojl Malkpur 

40 Shri Ratanlal Chotelal, Achalpur. 

41 Shri R. P. Khajanchl, Amravati. 

42 Shri Shillngappa Shankarappa Mendsh, 

Amravati . 

43 Shri GhoslrmaPholchand, Amravati 

44 Shri S. L. Rathi, Amravati 

45 Shri S. S. Jain, Amravati. 

46 Shri K. S. Zagade, Amravati. . 

47 Shri Dayan Ranchoddas, Latur. 

48 Shri Shriram Dagdulal, Jalna. . 


3 

4 

5 

Individual 

196J-- 66 

1.30,443 

Individual 

1965-66 

1,50,72 

Individual 

1965-6 6 

1.03,782 

Individual 

1965-66 

1,44.303 

Individual 

Individual 

Individual 

1965-66 

1965-66 

1969-70 

1.73.367 
r, 66, 043 
1. 04.595 

H. U, F, 

H. U. F. 
Individual 

H. U. F. 

H. U. F. 

H. U. F. 

H. U. F. 

H. U. F. 

Individual 

Individual 

H. U. F. 

Individual 

Individual 

1967-68 

1969-70 

1969-70 

1967- 68 

1968- 69 
1967-68 

1965- 66 

1966- 67 

1969- 70 
196 5-66 
1969-70 
1969-70 
1965-66 

1,07,000 
1. 1 1.754 
r, 16,190 
tjii,53o 

1.24.980 
1.29,610 

3.06.980 
3,06,980 
3.05,820 
1,05,960 

1,16,630 

1,12,900 

1.89,590 

Individual 

H. U. F. 

Individual 

Individual 

Individual 

Individual 

H. U. F. 

1965-66 

X965-66 

1965-66 

1965-66 

X967-68 

1964- 65 

1965- 66 

1.04,910 

1. 14.3 65 
1,25,5 to 
t. 3 7.593 
1,06,690 
r.15,470 

1,06,130 


Schedule— II 


Nam: of all F.rm s, Atsociadon of p:rsons and Companies assessed on income of over Rs i 0 

Lakhs during th: Financial year 1969-70. 


S. 

No. 

Name and address of the Assessee 

Status 

Asstt, Year 

.Income 
assessed 
under the 
Income-tax 
Act 5, 1961 

I 

2 

3 

4 

5 

I 

M/s Manganes Ore (India) Ltd. Mount Road, 

Company 

1965-66 

57.69.248 

2 

Nagpur 

M/s C. P. M. O. Pvt., L r d. Mount Road, 

N agpur ...... 

Company 

1965-66 

67,88,447 

3 

M/s Khare & Tarkunde Pvt Ltd. Kuingsway, 
Nagpur 

Company 

1965-66 

10,11,577 

4 

M/s Gondia Electric Supply Co. Gondia. 

Company 

1965-66 

13,23.485 


[No. F. No. Recy/19/ 70-71 . ] 
V.J. KARNIK) 
Commissioner of Incometax, 
Vidarhbha and Marathwada, 
Nagpur. 



4860 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 [Part H— 

tpsit* rite 4TO fiRET 

(WTOPT Wfqffr wV RTIWlfl) EiTOT 

TOPJT, 10 EHf, 1971 

t(^o wto 3495. — SR ftp E7tpK TRT £ % fTOlMiEt % TOT rite 

tot ftroff vtsmfw toet ri’i«r%r it tocw site wftfro |, teTOfiTfarforapfr 

1969:-1970 % TOEte : — 

(i) ^fcrt trr wfaron etztoI % to if 3*6 sira wt % *rfw Eft tot 
to froteE gro | ; 

(ii) TOffsqfTO TOR ET TOTfrot % ^<T if , 1 0 TOI % wfTOP 0 \ TOT 

to farter §srr£ ; 

^frr he fan; totto, ■EfafaroT 1 961(1961 to 43) rit mrr 287%aror etot Rff^rr- 
TO TOTtE TOSt JtT fatel fwr $ f% ^rifTOT fTOfftelfroif % TOT TOTT TOT fTOTOft E?T 
ETOfsrcr «rofTOT tot ; 

to: ETOESF^ft irite iiifTO|sTOteET fTOTT TOTT $: — 

fTOffa*Ff 1 969-7 0 % TOpfa 1 HTOT % 5fftPP Eft TOT TO fa*rfter TOTOT TOfoff 

qrff^ wPtetot % TOT 

tot frotfefr in tot a tot snfcqfa Writ Eri tow< rfte 


riwr 



fETO, 1 961 % 
TOfte trotter 

TOT 

1 2 

3 

4 

5 

1 rit’ffa fTo ETTO, ETOTOTETOf 

tete 

1 967-68 

1,1 8,1 69 

E^ffar TOE^TOTE TOTOft, TOTTOT 
te TOT3T 1 

2 rit rite 3E° TOfT ETO<6E *?TOf 

TOfo 

1 965-66 

1,56,667 

ETfror far TOEEt , ETW Tte, 
EEHEfaE TOI3< 1 

3 Jsff iJfPTO TO"o TOff ETOTOV Elite: 

TOfte 

1 965-66 

1,04,491 

far TOTOft, ET3FE fair, TOI3T 

4 ritTOfte Elf ETOTOT Slfte 

*9 ffa. 

1 965-66 

1,06,208 


irg' to, TOfeTTr, Tr^rssFT, 

TO137 1 





Sec- 3(il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 486 c 

1 

2 3 

4 

5 

5 

sft tti^o rte tYs, wfe 

RTRJE 1 

1 965-66 

1,20,833 

6 

«fY WETEWft, flRTTEft, TlfTOWT, suffer 

RTR^E I 

1 965-66 

4,35,676 

7 

sfY trwrrR rtett 

l^TTTT apo. oNYRTR, 

BTn^T 1 

1965-66 

1,82,108: 

8 

«fY wgwrr Rif, ?Tmrr?fY rtzte ®rfe 

4-reY wjsr jrt qr° wffar- 

4RR ^fi^T RE-ff, RTRJE I 

1 965-66 

4,57,223, 

9 

sfYsfYo fro rete thtbct rreY «rfe 

Rffta fo, TWtrpfe 

RPTJE 1 

1 968-69 

1,67,322: 

1 0 

«fY ^fYo fYrerfiR- r^it, thtje wfe 

1 965—66 

1,42,426 

11 

wftrrfY rEkrtEY erY ErsfY <14 *r° Rio 

«fiR% % RTR% Yr srfdRTW 
■xfmrvrr (*pY£ we *rcf r) 

1 964—65 

1,31,250 

1 2 

^rYErretrstYo for# uPWrew arfe 
ErsrrfonfEr tEy weYY, RttfY ret, 

RTR^E 1 

1 965-66 

3,1 7,773. 

1 3 

«fY TtoRR# EIRE) ETR' ET3T- «rfe 

fvwT wttY, »rrarY*rnr, 
retre: 1 

1 965-66 

2,67,441 

1 4 

sfY T^RRSfYo RRlY R^RrfTTR Slfe 

TTmfRRET 

1 965-66 

3,09,547 

1 5 

sfY ^0 tfYo RTRlfERT, RtsfY RTR, wfe 

RIRR 7 ; | 

1 965-66 

1,1 5,873 

1 6 

>sfY RI^HWT RtafYRRT gRITfr?, % Ro Sjjo 

RPTRE; 1 

1 965-66 

2,17,645 

1 7 

sf Y sYert Tryt ?RRTfY , retje «rfe 

1956-57 

1,01,564 

18 

TIRE! EYRRff TYERET THTeY 1 ^ffe 

1965-66 

1, 19,632 

1 9 

TY %RWRTE tYERET TPTEY . sqfe 

1965—66 

2,61,183 

20 

Tr r|Y tY Rif Rif PRTRTf RfftRT 

1967-68 

1,17,315 j 

21 

s TY TRlTCT if yet r, RTTET, EYfW Kffe 

1965-66 

1,01,063 

2 2 

m ECR RE Rif 4TeY Rif RtfRRT sqfcR 

1965-66 

1,30,443 



4862 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 [Paht II— 


1 2 

3 

4 

0 

2 3 Ft sto i\o TFT, 210, FOTt TFT, 

1965-66 

1,5 0,72 3 

TTFJT | 




2 4 «fr F'TT TIT IFF TTTF, sfto 4 FT 


1965-66 

1,0 3,78 2 

TTlFtT FT fT5T, FfaRFft, 




TITJT 




25 Flfto 4t° ^TFTTT, Ftmfartft, wfoz 

1965-66 

1,44,305 

TPT'R I 




26 F't Trfo qo ?3T^ *Jtf 4s, 

sq-ffeTT 

1965-66 

1,7 3,367 





27 sft FTTo trfTo TTT1TS, TFT >S, 

1965-66 

1,66,043 

TPTJT | 




28 Ft ftmFFm FTferTT, ttih 

: Fife 

1969-70 

1,04,595 

3^4, TTF'JT 1 




2 9 F't ?Tt TPT TR1T1T, TTRT 1 

fjjoFofllo 

1967-68 

1,07,000 

30 F*t TTF f%HTT TTRT, FIEft 1 

f^cFo^o 

1969-70 

1,1 1,754 

31 Ft 4Vo ifVo <RF, F^FT 1 


1969-70 

1,16,190 

32 Ft foWITF FFtfTFT, FTttFT 

ffo F° T,0 

1967-68 

1,11,530 

3 3 Ft fTFTTTT SRftPTFT, FFtFT 

f^oFo^o 

1968-69 

1,24,980 

34 sift T^TTFTT FFTFT 

f^oF^O 

1967-68 

1,2 9,610 

3 5 Ft %5 TRITTP-T TtpT, FFTFT 

%°Fo^o 

1965-66 

3,06,980 

36 Ft T5 <miF4TT TtRTT, FFtFT 

ftj°F°5 0 

1966-67 

3,06,980 

3 7 Ft FtjSTFTF WTTFTF, FTTTT 

«trfe 

1969-70 

1,05,820 

38 Ft ^FIFTF TIFTF, T|TT 

Oltfot 

1965-66 

1,05,960 

39 Ft Ft° 4to TTTjft, FFTTIT 

f^OWo^ 0 

1969-70 

1,16,630 

40 Ff REHM ISiTFYT, F T 'THT 

BtrfiiJ 

1969-70 

1,12,900 

41 Ft FRo Tt« FFTFt, FTTITrft 

Fife 

1965-66 

1,89,590 

42 «Ft fTcfrfFT'FT TTTRT *EfvT, 




FTTTTTt 

f^oFo^o 

1965-66 

1,04,91 0 





Sec. 3(ii)3 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 48 % 


1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

43 

'Sff frotHT? \Wtt, 

fjTotr^o 

1965-66 

1,14,365 

44 

Wf wff° 

safe 

1965-66 

1,25,510 

45 

fr it^o rTTio ^r, wfnreefr 

8 Tf®S 

1965-66 

1,37,593. 

46 

«fr %o ^0 sTfra^Tcft 

®ofe 

1967-68 

1,06,690 

47 

sfr TWET 77T®t3- TTE, WIT 


1964-65 

1,15,470 

48 

«ft ^ffrrR- ^rj ?rr$r, srw 

f^oWo^To 

1965-66 

1,06,130 


II 

fsTrfpT WT 1969-70 % 1 0 HEST TO TT wfoT ft WTO TT PwTpET 

TTRTcT Tiff, sqf^jff % WWT Wt? TfTpVOI RTE 


fTWTiTTt TT 6"PT fir TOT 

srftwPr 

P-EtW apf WFTTT 

wffrPrrPT, 


tiwn 1961 ^ wtfPr 

fTOffer WET 


1 2 

3 

4 

5 

i tnrfor wtr (^Psot ) Pto 

BT3^^P¥, THTJT 


1965-66 

57,69,248 

2 to ffo fro itito ?ff 0 snro foo. 


\ 


6id4<js, TFPJT 


1 965-66 

67,88,447 

3 ?3T^r fT TITT $$ STTo fao 

Ptoh, 

J 

r 6*-9'fV 

1 965-66 

10,11,577 

4 fflw TTTOTf fo. 

ffPETT 

=pPTfr 

1965-66 

13,23,485 


?rq*ft/ 19/ 70-71} 


^fo 5IR47T, 

fVrtf sfh: ettst mrr jmrjT: » 





4864 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 [Part II— 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT 

New Delhi, the 24 th August 1971 

S.O. 3490. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 72 of the Indian 
Patents and Designs Act, 1911 (2 of 1911), the Central Government hereby appoints 
the Director, Central Fuel Institute, District Dhanbad, Bihar, os an authority for 
the purpose of the said section, and makes the following further amendment In the 
notification of the Government of India In the late Ministry, of Commerce and 
Industry No. S.RO. 681, dated the 23rd March, 1955, namely: — 

, Iq the said notification after item (41) and the entry relating thereto, the follow- 
ing item and entry shall be inserted, namely: — 

"(42) The Director, Central Fuel Research Institute, Fuel Research Institute, 
P.O Dlstt. Dhanbad, Bihar." 


TNo. F. 33(43)-SP&D/69.] 
HARGUNDAS, Under Secy. 


'aftf'rfirv farm 
R^ fW-H , 2 4 SPUR 1971 

*PTo URo 3496, — RHffrT fenl ifk fVRTUT SfiWfRRR, 1 9 1 1 ( 1 9 1 1 *FT 2) 

■errcr 7 2 sm ttr wfacpfr Tr swtR kifp-i rtf it, fakir, 

RpfiFr, tfarr strsitt, fa^rc, v-tr tmr % sfafa-r % far RTfrorO-^r h RRRffrrr 
Tyfa iffa rttt rvtr; RR fa rfa TrffafR farm dfVsrfER^ rr , ntto fa° 

WTO 681, RT° 23Rlfa, 1955,irsfk STIR fpRfuftFT RlfmR 'FfaV wfa : — 

TFcT TUjgmft if, RT ( 4 1 ) vfa Rtfa RTJffiRR fafafa % TWTR faj-dfaffad R? Rk 

aWl VRmiffar antnftj Wqfa : — 

"(42) faSw, 

%RftR fSR RTRTR, 

1E6RT ; ^JR ^TRRTRIR RpgTR , 

fam r‘ irt? , fa$rc 1” 

[Ro 9RO 33(43)-lTRo»fto ?ffa tffo/eo] 
?<3JR UR, itRT RrRR | 


New Delhi, the 31 st August 1971 

S.O. 3492. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules further to 
amend the Small Scale Industries Organisation (Class III and Class IV posts) 
Recruitment Rules, 1960, namely:— 

1. (1) These rules may be called the Small Scale Industries Organisation 
(Class III and Class IV posts) Recruitment (Amendment) Rules, 1971. 

(2) They shall come Into force on the date of their publication in the Official 

Gazette. 

2 In the Schedule to the Small Scale Industries Organisation (Class III and 
Class IV posts) Recruitment Rules, I960, In the entries against item 3 relating to 
the post of Lower Division Clerk (in all States), 




Sec- 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 4865 


(1) in column 7, for the existing entry, the following entry shall be substituted, 
namely: — 

“(i) Matriculation or equivalent qualifications; and 
(it) Minimum speed of 30 words per minute in type-writing: 

Provided that — - 

(a) a person not possessing the said qualification in type-writing may be 

appointed subject to the condition that he shall not be eligible for 
drawing increments in the pay scale or for quasi-permanency or 
for confirmation in the grade till he acquire® a speed of 30 words 
per minute In type-writing; and 

(b) a physically handicapped person who i B otherwise qualified to hold 

a clerical post but doee not possess the said qualification in type- 
writing may be appointed subject to the condition that the Medical 
Board attached to the Special Employment Exchange for handicapped 
or where there is no such Board, the Civil Surgeon, certifies that 
the said handicapped person is not in a fit condition to be able to 
type". 

(2) In column 10, for the existing entry, the following entry shall be substi- 
tuted, namely: — 

“By direct recruitment, 

Note. — Ten per cent of the vacancies shall be reserved for being filled by 
Class IV employees (borne on regular establishment of these offices) subject to 
the following conditions, namely: — 

(1) Selection shall be made through a departmental competitive examination 

confined to such Class IV employees who fulfil the requirement of 
minimum educational qualification, namely, Matriculation or 
equivalent there. 

(2) The maximum age for appearing at thl s examination shall be forty years 

(forty five years for the Scheduled Caste or the Scheduled Tribe 
employees) . 

(3) At-least five years of service in Class IV shall be essential. 

(4) The maximum number of appointments by this method shall be limited 

to ten per cent of the vacancies In the cadre of Lower Division Clerks 
occurring in a year; 

unfilled vacancies would not be carried over to the next year. 

( 6 ) A probationary period of two years shall be prescribed, subject to 
extension of this period, if necessary.” 


[No. 4(13)/09-SSI(C).] 
O. B. PADMANABHAN, Under Secy. 


31 ST'T^fT, 1971 

*To*STr° 3 49 7, — TrG^'Tffi-, ifd-lTd % ^ f ^7 3 0 9 % 3777 SHUT wfaTTf 

VTWPT SfiTrT f 3^7:^ 4 7?) fT77, 1960, *T NV STFt 

1. (l) (*ff 3*r\TT»f 47?) *rdf (TPfrtET) 

ffiVV, 1971 I 





4866 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18. 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 [Part Ii— 


2 . oro (snf 3 wfa 4 nr) «rcff fron, 1 9 60 , off wo^rf if wo 3 fr 

Birororf foro^Tf fa-fw (TOffTTrofir) TOiTTO?fiTORfofe3ffif — 

( 1 ) ET W 7 if, fTOTOT srfffe i BTR TT foTOfof'OT wfafe srfflTOrfTO 
oftsrnnfr 5r*rfri — 

(i) OT TO3TO WfOTTT, *fR 

(ii) fT%TO ifTOifTO 30TOTOffTfTOT0?f 0%: 

OTOjfT- 

(T) Tff wrfeRT fWT 1 TUT ZT, #<TO if TOTT 5if ?TT Off | TO 9M' % Wtff-T 
faTTO fw Sf[ 7T%TrT f% 3T0 ^ TO TO? if 30 TTO SlfcT fOTO 
0?f off wfTOO-T^ TOOT ^f^fFTERJf OPT 0T TOTfTOrTT OT 

"3 O' <?®ff T' < C°T TT WTO off jftOT, wfr 

(?ar) off Trrrffffr si^fatrraTrr sofoo, oft f«p fwfoor to arnor oTO^r 
for"; tow wfw frog; j+?HwJr totwtot to^to o^f f, f^wr 
fron sit toot to to t wofo r$r frr f%- srqfaarnTro % fro froo 
fTOfTOTTO it toto fitei off or tot tot off off off | falror 

TO?0 TOrfTO OTOT t fTTOO W^fotfTTOgsqf^Jo^ 

frofo f off t 1 

( 2 ) toto 10 if frooR srfffe% tor to ffroffrlw srfafe sTfrorifTa 
of snrrifr, w4r^ 

ferorr — “off wff ira” — ffforof to 1 0 Rffro of 4 % (to tootot * 
fro-fro orm arnr arfro) TOTOTffff trt forofflw wo? 
w wafo off vrcff otto Tiro ^rrfsTO wt srrrrq-r, w*rfg; — 

( 1 ) or ir or 3Tf%Tqr wfgT, Wf[, hr or toto btoto off 
srrowwr gff orrf lif of 4 % TOfwrfrof if fffro fwrffo 

STfTOtff TOfSTT % OTTOE Jf ^ %OT STHTOT I 

( 2 ) to TOfroiftsf % f<ro wfroTO wnj 40of off ?>ff 1 (w^- 

fTOsrrfg TO’jFro set srrfo % onNrfrof % fart 45 of) 1 

( 3 ) of 4*foR foR STf #%OT ^NVO^ff^ff I 

( 4 ) to qraRr 5 ttt Tf of froforof Tf tiRttoo - t'w foro ^ff Wppft 

%0TTV7;Jf ii' fto orof frfoTOf % 1 OM'ffl’iKi ^#ffrofW; 

3T> p r F« FT ? f wffofff *rfl?ffw offfTOT snTOT I 

( 5 ) of TO TT TTlffSiTT TET f%%T fTOT ^TIM'OT TO OT^f TT fT, of? WHW'Ti' 
ff, TO Tf OTOTT ^nrr r 


[*To4( 13 ) /69— q;w TO WTf (rff)] 
sff 0 <TRo O^TOTTO, WTO wfro I 




SEC. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OE 1NOJA: SEPTEMBER J 8, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 4867 


Trade Mae kb 

New Delhi, the 3 lit August 1971 

S.O. 3498. — In exercise of the poweis conferred by section 5 of the Trade 
and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 (43 of 1958), the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendment to the notification of the Government 
of India in the late Ministry of Commerce and Industry No. S.O. 2601, dated the 
25th November, 1959, namely: — 

In the said notification, for th“ existing entry in the second column relating 
to the Office of (he Trade Mark Registry at Calcutta, the following 
entry shall be substituted, namely: — 

“The States of Assam. Bihar, Nagaland, Orissa, and West Bengal, the 
autonomous State of Meghalaya, the Union territories of Andaman 
and Nicobar Islunda, Manipur and Tripura and the tribal areas of 
the State of Assam specified in Part B of the table appended to 
paragraph 20 of the Sixth Schedule to the Constitution of India”. 

[F. No. 30(1) -IT/TM/ 09. ] . 

P. SITARAMAN, Dy. Secy. 


fft frwf; 3 1 TTTT 19 71 

VIoHlo 2498: — sEnnr TlfT^T pfgfFTOTT, 1958 (l958 7T 43) 

RUT 5 5TTT 7TT ufuTTT 47 (PITT %kl r PT^TTT, TTCT TCETT % *4I'!K 

TSfffl TTUET T7 R’rR’JTdT T 0 TTo PTo 2 6 0 1 , Trk<T 2 5 TTWE, 1959 ^77^3771 
ffTCdfufed Uk TET TlftTff TTcfV %, TtTt 

7TT TfTT^Tl if, TUTfTT Tt 5TETR, fffff Tfacfr % dTHTETT T TffTT 7Tt RUT 
fTTTTT Rkfe T 7717 IT fffFfffyrfalff Tiff ETifTT TT Tirff, STT?^ - 

R TP, jfffffTT, TTOT#?, 77R7 Tl7 TfaffTf 7TP7, TE?T 47777 77 *7URT 
7 ? 7 1 T -7 71 fTTRUT 77|7, Tfjpjr TV f^PTU 77 77 TTfriflT sfk '7777 % 
TfTRrTTl % <kr 20 7 77?7 TRoft % TIT 7 777 7777 

% -JR^rlfrf^T I 

[To ifiio 30 ( l)-Tito t\j #0 ttr / 09] 
To TlrrEWT, ^T 7f77 I 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 13 th September 1971 

8.0. 3499]n>RA|6[ll|71 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 6 of 
the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act. 1951 (65 of 1951) read with rules 
2, 4 and 5 of the Development Councils (Procedural) Rules, 1952, the Central 
Government hereby appoints, for a period of two years with effect from the date 
of this Order, the following persons to be members of the Development Council 
for the scheduled Industries engaged in the manufacture or production of Drugs 
and Pharmaceuticals, in place of members appointed under the Government of 
India in the late Ministry of Industrial Development and Company Affairs (Depart- 
ment of Industrial Development) Order No. S.O. 2853/IDRA/6/G/68, dated the 
17th August. 1968, as amended from time to time, whose tenure of office has 
expired by efflux of time or otherwise : — 

Development Council for Drug and Pharmaceuticals. 

1. Shrl A. V. Mody, Managing Director, M/s. Unichem Laboratories Ltd., 22- 
Bhulaohai Desai Rbad, BoTfibay-26— Chairman 



4868 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 [Part II— 


2. Dr, K, A. Hamied, Managing Director, M/s. CIPLA, 289, Bellasis Road, 
Bombay-1. 

,3. Dr. D. V. K. jFtaju, Managing Director, M/s. Crookes Interfran Ltd,, 254-D, 
Dr. Annie Besant Road, Worll, Bombay-12. 

4. Shri N. M, Shah, M/s. Atul Drug House, D 85, Annie Besant Road 

Worli, Bombay-18. 

5. Dr. S. N, Sharma, Principal, Gauhati Medical College, Gauhati (Assam). 

6. Dr. N. Rangaswami. Chief Analyst, M/s. Glaxo Laboratories (India) Pvt. 
Ltd., Dr. Annie Besant Road, Worli, Bombay-18. 

7. Dr. S. K. Mehta Chief Chemist. M/s. Boehringer Knoll Ltd., United India 
Building, Pherozeshah Road, Bombay-1. 

8. Shri M. K. Ranganekar, Commissioner. Food and Drugs Administration Griha 
Nirman Bhavan, Kala Nagar, Bhandrp, East Bombay-5. 

9. Dr. A. J. Farldi, Farldl Buildings, Hazrat Ganj. Lucknow. 

10. Bhai Mohan Singh, Chairman & Chief Executive, M/s, Ranbaxy Labora- 
tories (Pvt.) Ltd., Okhla. New Delhi, 

11. Shri Rattanlal Gupta, 1424, Chandni Chowk, Delhi. 

12. Dr. B. N. Ghosh, Managing Director, M/s. Bengal Chemicals & Pharmaceuti- 
cals Works Ltd,, 0, Ganesh Chander Avenue, Calcutta-13. 

13. Shri B. N. Dey, Managing Director, Dey’s Medical Stores, 6, Lindsay Street, 
Calcutta. 

14. Shri M. S. Shastri, Chief Executive, M/s. Synbiotics Ltd., Wadi Wadi, 
Baroda, 

15. Shri C. S. Raju, M/s. South India Research Institute (P) Ltd., Srinagar, 
Vljaywada (Andhra Pradesh). 

16. Dr. J. J. Neuruker, M/s. Suneeta Laboratories, 89-B/90, Industrial Estate, 
Indore (M-P-). 

17. Frol. D. K. Banerjee, Professor of Organic Chemistry, Indian Institute of 
Science, Bangalore. 

18. Dr. P. C. Bhatla, 12-Sadar Thana Road, Delhi. 

19. Dr. S. B. Rao. Managing Director. M/s. Navarathnn Pharmaceuticals, Cochin 
(Kerala) 

20 Shri B, V. Raman, Managing Director, Hindustan Antibiotics Ltd,, Pimpri, 
Poona. 

21 Shri Jagjlt Singh, Chairman & Managing Director, M/s. Indian Drugs & 
Pharmaceuticals Ltd., N-12, South Extension Part (I), New Delhi-3. 

22. Shri M. L. Dhar, Director, Central Drug Research Institute, Lucknow, 

23. Dr. A. G. Sonar, Member Parliament, (Lok Sabha), 165-North Avenue, 
New Delhi. 

24. Shri Sushil Bhattacharjee, 780, Ballimoran, Delhi, 

25 Shri P. S. Ramuchandran, Drugs Controller, Ministry of Health, New Delhi. 

on Dr . p. r. Gupta, Drug Adviser, Ministry of Petroleum & Chemicals & Mines 
& Metals (Department of Petroleum & Chemicals), New Delhi, 

27 Dr. B. Shah, Industrial Adviser, D.G.T.D., New Delhi. 

28. Representatives of the Director General. Armed Forces Medical Services. 
Ministry of Defence, New Delhi, 

29 Shri K. Ventataraman, DIrcteor. Ministry of Industrial Development, New 
Delhi.' 


Member Secretary, 

30. Shri D. G. Fatwardhan, Development Officer (Drugs & Fharm.), D.G.T.O., 

ahe'n r Patwardhan Development Officer, D.G.T.D., New Delhi is hereby 
appointed to carry on toe functions of the Secretary to the said Development 

Council. 


[No. 13(7)/70-LC.l 
R. K. CHADHA, Under Secy. 



Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 4869 


fW\, 1 3 ftTtfmT, 1971 

VT oWTo3 4 9 9/?Tft 0 o sm oil o/e/l l/71. — Pr PmT ) 

STfkfJHFW, 1951 ( 1951 TT 6 5) ^ STRT 6 % 3T7T mt VlfWiff **T SPTtiT TOft pr 

r^TO form TPc^f (<??TTf Pfftr) Pm, 1952 % Pm, 2 , 4?fiT pj, 

tnm fjcr^jim PmrforPitT ®niwTf *?r sm ^ forf*r it ?t ^rf ?t«p <tfV 

fl’rfer % fotf *ttt ptttt % yVftPrr form tmr mrPT-«PT^ wxrm (<fafN 

fow ftw form) % Tt%T TT o TT ° 'CfT o 2853/?Ilf o f[ om o o/e/6/68, fotTfaf 

1 7 *mr, 1958 tnmm tt tftfrfim foptT m ^Ve^t form Pf3r >tir mfi 
% wr tt, fomr qrrPpTR, mr ^for # mrr'VmT ft tot $, tfVro ^mr to 
% Pmfor wtt tt sFjgfortr mfrifr q?t form 'Tfrr^ tt ppt Pt^ Trft 
I :— 

*ft<r«r ?tti vt form qfTEpr 

( 1 ) ^ rr o sft o ifPft, 

wtr Pt^rpt, 

it° !jPi%<t ^ffeftR - for o, 

22 v(ht vnf %qrf tfor, 

mf-26 mW 

( 2 ) irr 0 %• 0 rr 0 ^4Pr, 
smt fo^KI*!.', 

it o tft ttt£ qt ^ tr, 

289, j ?«HKPt ftff, 

»<«({-■ 1 

( 3 ) 5To5tocfto%o 7JR, 

pitfoET 

it o <FW ^37^T P?T 0 , 

245—^, 1ST 0 fPftit tic TW, 

T-ff, m$-12, 28 ft it I 

(4) TfR o irtr o 5 TTf, 
it o vrj.<l ^ fmtt, 

85, STo ffo, 

«tpff, mf-is, 

(5) TT 0 T^T o ITTf o 

PsrfTTRTT, TrtfTSt itfow ^PSf, 

TftfT^t (mm) 1 
( e) 0 c^t o TuTmmt, 

Etr ifolfora:, 

it 0 forwt (fffqr) srioforo, 

¥t ° fofrttr fm, mf-18, 



4870 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 [Pakt H— 


(7) $To ETTo % irgWT, 

sfH %'fw, 

° ^tf^TTTT, ^FTtET fft 
fsrfS-TTT, 

PwWlitf TTT, 1 

(s) eft t^To %o 

Tfirwr qjir m« f ^ rn?firfH*|T?R, 
ftRW %m, TTRT'fET, '*ft5T 
nrT3rt-5 

(9)/st° ito ^-o qrM, 

'pfPft ftrfcsir, 

*K EraTjg, 1 
( 1 0 ) vnf iflfT f%?, 

%?TTE7| -eH rrapsft^fCT, 
fto ^ft, fl^d ' for (srr°) ftio, 
srt^TT, Ef fo# 1 

(11) «ft teeeth 

1425, ■'lid'ft ■'I'l'ti fc^ft I 

(12) IT" 3 ftc r^o ^ft'T, 

SftfsRT 31 ^dT;, 

ft O sftmT twr Tftf«FjfdW ^ fa o, 

6 1 — *1 “I <<) TST nqr^, 

^EITOT-13 

(13) *ft aft 0 ^ 0 f , 
ftftfftE m^x, 
ifa ftfarcRi 

6 -fftsft s£fe, I 

( 14 ) eft ijtto <T^o urn#, 

-tfWj n^pjfeer, 

fto fftwnfew fHo, 

arret amft, «rekr i 

(15) *ft ftto ° TTf, 

fto *rre*r ftsrft ^d^d (stto) farftrcre, 
efftm:, arm (srrw 1 

(16) *To ^0 fto ;^W 7 , 

fto 5^TT ftsflVPfa, 

89— ^t/90, 2'J-df^er $$z, 

tfa, (*TWT aftUT) 



Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 487! 


(17) ST r O O e^; O , 

sfto smffcr ^ftr^t, 

sTFfi *Mk, 

(is) TTo eft 0 tfto ¥|TOT, 

I 2- J TT r TETT JIT, 

feft I 

in) TT 0 0 ^t o 7 JT, 

tfSrfsnT TKt'+ZT, 

-rinfir. (%?sr) i 

( 2 0) ssft 3ffo 0 7JTTT, 

JT.rfTT TIT^FZT, 

^il^TifrfTTO ftT °, 
fipr ■fl, grr i 

' 21) «ft TTsftr f%^, 

%?r 4 t ito? ri^>Ai7, 

it 0 is.fW-H ^eet r ( a ? ftr °, 

t(T“12, ETOT t(W?VR 7 t£ (l), 
fe^ft—3 

(22) «ft ITTfo qrq-o HT, 

r <ft<TO ^RHTFT 7fF*IFT, *P9FT3; I 

(23) 3To qo sfto fltTR, 

to *kw, ffiwur 
1 6 5-HT«f trt^, Tf 1 

(24) «ft g5ft5T srzTRpf 

780, *T??ft RTTR, feft I 

(25) «fr <fto qflo THTTOffT, 

TOTP^T *fq t£ I 

(26) TTo <fto 7HT 0 W, 

5T*IT TOFFT, IT^q ^"PT rT«TT *TT^ TOFOT, 
(’tfff'WT T>qT TOTTT fTOFl), T? fc^ft I 

(27) 3T° sfto 9TT^, 

mVi^ TEm^rir, 

f^PTF <67 ^iTh^UHO, 
feft I 



4872 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 [Part II— 


(28) SETTST, 

HihiM *ri%¥nr, 

STEF 

Rf fo?# 1 (i?p srfwTMk) 

(29) «ft %o #T2mriT, 

Ph 

sfaflPw faFTB m\ ^TtTfW STFITT FcTPTT, 
fopTB faWRT), ^ fevft I 

(30) iVo 5 ft 0 

fa*PTff NPwrft, (sftw ^ $*E3r), 

cf'H'0 J t’V f^BPRST FT +it?iPi5vM'H i (, ¥PTPT — ^Pd*! 

■T^ fte^V I 


(31) “sfr sY<> 3ft° 'ra^r, f^rra trfuFrft hf-MV fa»pm ft 

3TT7TT % I 


[Ro 13( 7 ) / 7 0 — 0 ifto] 
7!T«T f^TT Vd i I 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING 
(Department of Health) 

New Delhi, the 7th August 1971 

S.O. 3500.— Whereas Dr. J. C. Parikh, B.D.S. (Bom.), M.S.(USA), Bungalow 
No, 4, Shrinivas Society, "Vatsalya”, near New Sharda Mandir Road, Elllsbridge, 
Ahmedabad-7, has been elected with effect from the 1st October, 1970, from among 
the dentists registered in Part A of the Gujarat register of dentists, as a member 
of the Dental Council of India clause (a) ol r section 3 of the Dentists Act, 1048 
(10 of 1948). 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the powers conferred by section 3 of the said 
Act, the Central Government hereby makes the following further amendment in 
the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Health No. 
3-2/62-MII, dated the 17th October, 1962, namely: — 

In the said notification, under the heading “Elected under clause (a) of section 
3", for the entry against Serial No. 13, the following entry shall be substituted, 
namely: — , 

“Dr. J. C. Parikh, B.D.S. (Bom,), M.S. (USA), Bungalow No. 4, Shrinivas 
Society, “Vatsalya”. near Sharda Mandir Road, Elllsbridge, Ahmeda- 
bad-7 ” 

[No. T. 3-31/70-M.P.T.] 


fjfrt qfrriT faunm 

(«mx 

fo?Tt, 7 'V'uar, 1071 

ffio 3500 — Fd: ^ wfafoUT, 1948 (1948FT 16)vt’JTT' 3 

% tm (f ) % mft-T *fd tft° TTfGJ , sfto fpc ), irtf 0 (JT^W TT5J 





Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 4873 


m wrfrw ), stew 4, from *rfcmpY, "totot" tot W7W Rfar % fror 

fanr, «ifETRTT- 7, ^ tottet q'^ftefr to fRfwTOT % vrFr V % sufEr TOfrsw to fofqr- 
toe? Jr JriTOfro 1 9 1 0 u RTTrftE to Mtoto qf^ w tow f TOtfro fwrrwrrsji 
to - :, to torttMtor^Viutt 3 iTOTOHufTOffwwjTu §TT%Hfto toet 

d^ITTI TOjq TOTTO TOHWT qft TTfa^TOT R€RT 3-2/ 62 fTO 2 fadEE, 1 1 TO^TO, 

1 962 Jr *flr fa Rfufaq ruTto wtwV f to 

?rftrg^7T Jr, "ktrt 3 % ^ (qr ) % TOEfa faqifro qfrfqr” Jr srfaffa #rr 
1 3 % wet qr faurfuf^r jrfqfci T?a^fr tot; to% : — 

"STo jT ® Tft o qifTRT, ^Vo ^Y° t^Ro (qwf ), ((TO ((TO (TTo Tfo R o J, TORI 
-rfo 4, «fV fTOET HfaTI^V, "qT?RTO’' ; WTO ^EfaT^Tfa, ^rfawfaw j 
RHETOR- 7 l” 

[Ro Rff 3-31/70 trqo qto ffto] 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 2Btn July 1971 

S.O, 3501.— Whereas by the notification of the Government of India in the late 
Ministry of Health No. 16-5/62-MI, dated the 23rd July, 1962, the Central 
Government has directed that the Medical qualification, ,1 M.D.” granted by the 
University of Georgetown, Washington, United States of America, shall be 
recognised medical qualification for the purposes of the Indian Medical Council 
Act, 1956 (102 of 1950); 

And whereas Dr. Katherine Florence Jobson who possesses the said quali- 
fication is for the time being attached to the Holy Family Hospital, Mandat, 
Ranchi District for the purposes of charitable work; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of clause (c) of the proviso to sub-section 
(1) of section 14 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby specifies; 

(i) a further period ending with the 29th February, 1972, or; 

(ii) the period during which Dr. Katherine Florence Jobson, is attached 

to the said Holy Family Hospital, Mandar Ranchi District, 
whichever is shorter, as the period to which the medical practice by the aforesaid 
doctor shall he limited. 

rNo. F. 19-22/70-MPTVI 

WTWT 

*Tf faqUY, i 6 TOUT, 19 71 

<TH° TH° 35 01:— RW TO WTOT % Vd ff TOUR RSTRR rft 23 
1962 Trfsr^Rw rtot ie-5 62 tnio wf o, zru toe^ faYn ferr t fa 
RRRfa fafawT qfa«R RfafaER 1 956 ( 1 95 6 W 1 02) % RRfSET faiT TOfarTR, 
fawfawRR, qTfwTTO, RTOR TOR scfaffaT 5TU TOT H(Ro ffo” WTO fu%TO R?fcTT 
RTO fafaw Rtfar iftfa I 

RtT TO: W o $RfaTT TW/TO RTfRH Tt fWT% Hid’ WET Tff RT RRfa qm} % 

toTOt % facr farour fa# qifa# totor, tot, tHY faw % tot tor £ i 

to:, to, tot R fafaqR # trnr i 4, ^Vtortu ( i ) % quro (r) toteto 
qrfa ^it toett TOiaru frofre qrrof | f% : 

(i) 29TTO^, 19 72 T>RTOTT^TTOlfl’TOi 1 qrV!rqftri 

tttot 

(ii) wo q;H>TO tttot 'fifrort totou, tot, rrwl f^w u 
TOTO T^ qf) TOftr Tit qfr qr'qr TOT TOftT % qtrw TOTO itfrorr ^fqJTT TT TOR 1 

[#o iTRo 1 9-22/70-tHTo cfto ^ 0 /] 



4874 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971/BHADRA 27, J 893 [Part II— 


S.O. 3502, — Whereas by the notification of the Government of India in the late 
Ministry of Health and Family Planning No. 1B-13/66-MPT, dated the 3rd June, 
1968, the Central Government has directed that the Medical qualification, Doctor 
of medicine granted by Women’s Medical College, Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, United States of America, shall be recognised medical qualification 
for the purposes of the Indian Medical Council Act 1956 (182 of 1956); 

And whereas Dr. Sister Mary Liguori Cantlin who possesses the said qualifica- 
tion is for the time being attached to the Mercy Hospital, Jamshedpur, for the 
purposes of charitable work; 

Now. whereas in pursuance of clause (c) of the proviso to sub-section (1) of 
section 14 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby specifies; 

(1) a further period of two years with effect from the 8th December, 1970, 
or 

(ii) the period during which Dr. bister Mary Liguori Cantlin is attached 
to the said Mercy Hospital, Jamshedpur; 

whichever is shorter, as the period to which the medical practice by the aforesaid 
doctor shall be limited. 

[No. F. 19-16/71-MPT.] 
P. C. ABORA, Under Secy. 

URo Silo 3502 : — mm HTTHT % MptfR PWl Jin 

itothtt dft 3 3JTT, 1964'FlsrftrgHHTiio 1 8 - 13 / 66-^0 <fto 

fttur fern | ftp ntcPw ferfrem trfFPm 1956 (1956 m 102) drmfmf 
* fntr VVZ dHflHmfmiT fatrfefmr TFm tmfeTT SHT 5CHT ‘fefifST 

fetin ' 1 mmrr fafdmrr turm mm ferfdmrr *r|m ; 

■rift tRr: tto famr 4ft fmrmrr mmfmr w,\ htr mw '4m f, mrfa «frrtf 

(Tff;, ?ur, ^^fafmUTdrtNrU 1 4 Sffe mWTTT ( l) % *f? HHT (ff) 4d TTHd 

tp 4 r HTdin; mrncfV £ fdr ; 

(i) s fftrmr, 1 9 7 0 ?r m mf md 4 ft tmftT dr fero 

?r«rm 

(ii) mr mfa 4 mF mo fermr 4fl fermrft m^fepT, iw mmt srurmH, 
^ hth mmar % ^ft *ft nm hh dr dduff irf^m dfd?m 

»pv 1 


[ <h° d« 9-16/71-tm 0 ^V°] 

jpftst msr *PtftT, hht hFhh 1 


ministry of information and broadcasting 

New Delhi, the 28 th June 1971 


«« osflt In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5(1) of the Cinema- 

*3; Act 7952 ^d sub-ruie (3) of rule 8 read with sub-rule 2 of rule 9 of the 
tograph Act, 1952 ana v ^ 1958 thg Centra ] Government hereby re- 

appoints following persons as members of the Advisory Panel of the Central Board 



SEC- 3(li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA. SEPTEMBER 18, 1971 BH ADR A 27, 1893 4875 


of Film Censors at Calcutta with effect from 1st July, 1971 to ,30th September. 
1971: — 

1. Shri Anant Mahapatra. 

2. Shri Saumyendra Nath Tagore. 

3. Shri Kshitish Roy. 

4. Smt. Usha Khan, 

[No. 11/4/71 F(C)-] 
VIRENDRA D. VYAS. Director. 

^rrt smTT"r 

fff fscsft, 29 ^R, 1971 

l?Ho*fro 3 5 03--RRrRRRfRfRRJT, 1952 ¥t HTO 5( l) Sift irofaR (t fa) 
f^rrTRT TFfr, 1958$ fffRR 9 % Rff-fRRR ( 2 ) % SfTR rTtr fRtpT 8% Rff-fffRR ( 3) 
am sraw 'tmrrr/r vr trIr tot %nVr tmirr ft ^am fr* rfa-furr aRfapff $t 

1 ^RT$, 1971 % 30 fRITOR, 19 71 RRT, $RftR faW #R7 RtY % SFPTOr RRTf?RffT RRH 
W faiT tt RRTR fff/PW Hr 9 i ^ 1 — 

1. ■sftwRRT 1 

2. >sft RIR OTtT 1 

3. >sft ftlfdvr TTR I 

4. sm nit i 

[WT M/4/71-^ (Rt)] 
offer TT STIR flTTR! I 


New Delhi, the 12th August 1971 

S.O, 3504. — Shri Pratap Krishan, officiating Regional Officer, Central Board of 
Film Censors, Bombay was granted earned leave preparatory to retirement for 
64 days with effect from 24th May, 1971 to 26th July, 1971. 

On the expiry of leave Shri Pratap Krishan retired from Government service 
w.e.l 27th July, 1971. 

[No. 2/ 106/7 0-F ( C) .] 


fff fe?ftl2 RRTO, 1971 

ST>o 3504 — RRTR PTOTTWR TpJfWT RfRR-fe $RfTR f ,/R TO" 
iri, R 24Rf 1971 % 26^rwrf, 1971 64fTffTr^TT ffffer Rf TO 

RTTrrST (Tiff f$R7 ffq-r RT I 

2. TOW RKTfTO RG Rfflff f rfff 2 7 TJRli, 1 9 1 1 R R-Rff/t RdT R R-TI 

fRfR |T Rir | 

[R° 2 10 6/ 7 0- n;T (Rt) ] 

New Delhi, the 21st August 1871 

S.O. 3505.— -In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5(1) of the Cinema- 
tograph Act, 1952, and sub-rule (3) of rule 8 read with sub-rule 2 of rule 9 of the 
Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1958, the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shrimati Sara Syed Usuf as member Of the Advisory Panel of Central Board of 
-Film Censors at Madras with Immediate effect and upto 30th September, 1971, 

[No. ll/2/71-F(C).] 
J, C. NAMPUI, Dy, Secy. 



4876 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 [Part II — 


21 smw, 1971 

*fto 3S0S-^lf^T 5|ftrfWT, 19 52 TV STITT 5(l) -''•‘ifTd (3TTT) 

fWT#, 1 958 ^ fWT 9 % 'j'T-fWfT 2 % *TT«T Tfefi faTT 8 % TT-faTT ( 3) ITtT 
trw srftwRlr sr#r gr, ^jf^r er^TT % ’sftrRfV mrr r tt w?r ^ 3 o 
fatBaiT, 1971 tfRffa fa^T tTBW TETT^TIT 9 •M TT fT’J'RT f^TT 


[ RWT 9TT° ll/2/7I-t?<«o (*ft° ) ] 
tfjo TT^, TT sf*T I 


New Delhi, the 31s£ August 1971 

S.O. 3506. — In pursuance of the Resolution of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Information & Broadcasting No. 1/29/58-FP dated the 5th February, 
1959 as amended from time to time, the Central Government hereby nominate# 
Shri Hrishikesh Mukherjee as member of the Film Advisory Board, Bombay, with 
effect from the date he assumes charge of the office, for a term of two years. 

[No. 28/3/7 0-FP.] 


df fotft, 31 *fniw, 1971 

*fto 3506: — WTcT RTtpTT % g^FTT nfiTWTTOT H^IW % eTRT-RRR 

it #wftfsRi tfwrtfwiT 1/29/58-^0 <fto fWr 5 'zvtft, 1959 % 

Jr tn:*FrrT ^ sft s fcfqtTiVl tpT ^>*1$ % fatT ^ TFf <TK 

itrfNr r, wBitj'frrT «ni, *ft rsft fd^m fam | 1 

[tfWT 28/3/71-*P6 o tfVo] 

S.O. 3507.— In pursuance o f rule 4(b) of the Central Information Serivce Rules, 1959* 
t e Central Government as a result of the review undertaken, hereby fixes the authorised perma- 
nent strength of the following grades of the Central Informadon Service as on the 1st of March, 
1970- 

Authorised Permanent 

Grade Strength 


Class I: 

Selection Grade .... 
Senior Adnrinstrative Grade : 

(Senior Scale) .... 

(Junior Scale) .... 

Junior Administrative Grade : 

(Senior Scale) .... 

(Junior Scale) .... 

Grade I 

Grade II 

Add leave reserve @1% 

Add deputation reserve @ t5 % 

Class II 

Grade III 

Grade IV; 

Add leave reserve @ 10% 

Add deputation reserve @5% 



a66 
40 9 

20 J 


1 

5 

5 

7 

8 

99 

108 


136 

326 


Total strength : 


695 


2. The total authorised permanent strength of the 
at 695 as on the 1st March, 1970. 


Central Information Service has been fixed 
[No. F. 2/1/70-CIS] 


S. PADMANABHAN, Dv. Secy. 


Cfc- 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OE INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 4877 


fffo 350 7. — %^/VT ^PTT #TT 1,959 % fiRR 4 ( ) % 

?PJITC<T R sRftr (WTT, fTT iTtr 1 1970 TT 

^FTT KTT % fHH'pH f«i<H TfT STfafT FTP?* 7TWT f^RTcT t : — 


srfafro F*rnft wr 

^ufl-Tpi : 

^W(I*T V3 .... . 

*ftPnTv it v : 

(tftfRT ) . 

srcrHrfar : 

(tftfRT p%pt ) 

(^PttTT ) 

WT-qiT ...... 

tflRT ...... 

1 0 stfTTM % f^TTR % fwf srVfaft 

1 5 rftrm % f^R O’ f^r# 

i 

5 

5 

7 

. 8 
62^ 99 

18 Y 108 
28 J 

tf'ifMXt 

..... 

. 136 

7¥-^TT ...... 

i o Tftw % f^TR fr fcstf ortfrir 

5 sfflw % ff?TR ?r srfgfrrfw . 

266~) 

40 )■ 326 

20 J 


JWITW 695 

2. 1 BTT, 1970 Vt grRT ipTT f^T 3rfffSR ^TRft fflTT 695 fa*PT 

rft uf | 1 

[Ro 'HTo 2/l/70-?fro?n^olT^o] 


t^o 'TtTTPfR, g’T pfV* 1 


PRINTED BY THE OENERAL MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, MINTO ROAD, 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1971 







