REGISTERED No. D. 221 





67« vv 

of inbia 


«n4««nl 

EXTRAORDINARY 

PART II—Section 2 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 37A] NEW DELHI, WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 19J8/BHADRA 19, 1880 


LOK SABBA 


The following report of the Joint Committee on the Bill to de¬ 
clare that certain offices of profit under the Government shall not 
disqualify the holders thereof for being chosen as, or for being 
members of Parliament was presented to Lok Sabha on the 10th 
September 1958:— 

Composition of the Joint Committee 
Lok Sabha 


1. Sardar Hukam Singh —Chairman 

2. Pandit Thakur Das Bhargava 

3. Shri M. R. Krishna 

4. Shri Dharanidhar Basumatari 

5. Shri Rajeshwar Patel 

6. Shri Rohan Lai Chaturvedi 

7. Shri M. K, Jinachandran 

8. Shri Ram Sahai Tiwari 

9. Shri P. Subbiah Ambalam 

10. Shri H. Siddananjappa 

11. Shri Panna Lai 

12. Shri Jaganatha Rao 

13. Shri S. R. Bamani 


( 987/1 ) 


987/2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part II 

14. Shri Shivram Rango Rane 

15. Shri Khushwaqt Rai 

16. Shri Surendra Mahanty 

17. Shri Braj Raj Singh 

18. Shri Aurobindo Ghosal 

19. Shri S. Easwara Iyer 

20. Shri Asoke K. Sen 

Rajya Sabha 

21. *Dr. Shrimati Seeta Parmanand 

22. Shri Amolakh Chand 

23. *Shri S. D. Misra 

24. @Shri Tajamul Husain 

25. Shri Purna Chandra Sharma 

26. Shri N. Ramakrishna Iyer 

27. @Shri Vijay Singh 

28. Shri Abdur Rezzak Khan 

29. Shri Rajendra Pratap Sinha 

30. ’"Shri H. D. Rajah. 

Draftsman 

Shri S. K. Hiranandani, Additional Draftsman, Ministry of 
Law. 

Secretariat 

Shri N. N. Mallya— Deputy Secretary, 

Shri A. L. Rai—Under Secretary. 


‘Ceased to be members of the Joint Committee consequent on their 
retirement from Rajya Sabha with effect from the 2nd April, 1958 but 
were re-appointed by Rajya Sabha on the 7th May, 1958 on their re-election 
to that House. 

©Appointed on the 7th May, 1958 by Rajya Sabha vice Kazi Karimuddin 
and Shri C. L. Varma, ceased to be members of the Joint Committee on 
their retirement from that House. 



Sec. 2] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


987 ^ 


Report of the Joint Committee 

1. the Chairman of the Joint Committee to which the ‘Bill to 
declare that certain offices of profit under the Government shall not 
disqualify the holders thereof for being chosen as, or for being 
members of Parliament was referred, having been authorised to 
submit the report on their behalf, present this their report, with 
the Bill as amended by the Committee annexed thereto. 

2. The Bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha on the 5th December, 
1957. The motion for reference of the Bill to a Joint Committee of 
the Houses was moved by Shri Asoke K. Sen on the 14th December, 
1957 and was discussed in the Lok Sabha on the 14th and 16th De¬ 
cember, 1957 and was adopted on the 16th December, 1957. 

3. The Rajya Sabha discussed the motion on the 21st December, 
1957 and concurred in the said motion on the same day. 

4 The message from the Rajya Sabha was published in Lok 
Sabha Bulletin Part II, dated the 24th December, 1957. 

5. On the 5th May, 1958, the Lok Sabha adopted a motion 
recommending to Rajya Sabha to appoint five members to the Com¬ 
mittee in the vacancies caused by the retirement of five members 
front that House. The Rajya Sabha concurred in the said motion 
on the 7th May, 1958. The message from the Rajya Sabha was read 
out in the Lok Sabha on the 9th May, 1958. 

6. The Committee held 16 sittings in all. 

7. At their first, second, third, and fourth sittings, the Com¬ 
mittee had a preliminary discussion on the provisions of the Bill. 

8. The Committee appointed a Sub-Committee on the 3rd Feb¬ 
ruary, 1958 to examine the particulars of Committees received from 
the Ministries of the Central and from State Governments to enable 
the Committee to draw up a list of Committees whose membership 


‘Published in Part II, Section 2 of the Gazette of India Extraordinary, 
dated the 5th December, 1957. 



987/4 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part II 

might disqualify from membership of Parliament. The Report of 
the Sub-Committee was presented on the 24th July, 1958. 

9. At their sitting held on the 25th August, 1958, the Committee 
again authorised the Sub-Committee to examine those Committees 
information in regard to which was received subsequent to the 
presentation of the first Report of the Sub-Committee. The 
Supplementary Report of the Sub-Committee was presented on the 
26th August, 1958. 

10. One representation from the Indian Medical Association, 
Delhi was received by the Committee, which was placed in the - 
Camp Library for reference by the members. 

11. The Committee considered the Bill clause by clause at their 
sittings held on the 31st January, 3rd February, 25th, 26th and 28th 
July, 20th and 25th August and 1st, 3rd and 4th September, 1958. 

12. The Report of the Committee was to be presented by the last 
day of the second week of the Fourth Session of Second Lok Sabha. 
The Committee were granted two extensions of time; for the first 
time on the 21st February, 1958 upto the last day of the first week 
of the Fifth Session, and again on the 16th August, 1958 upto the 
10th September, 1958. 

13. The Committee considered and adopted the Report on the 
8th September, 1958. 

14. The observations of the Committee with regard to the princi¬ 
pal changes proposed in the Bill are detailed in the succeeding 
paragraphs. 

15. Clause 1.—As the life of the Prevention of Disqualification 
Act, 1953 (Act 1 of 1954) has been extended upto the 31st December, 
1958 the Committee consider that the present legislation might 
come into force from that date. 

The Clause has been amended accordingly. 

16. New clause 2.—The Committee felt that the explanation to 
clause 2(h) of the Bill should be the subject matter of a separate 
'definition clause’. This new clause has accordingly been inserted. 

17. Clause 3 ( Original clause 2).— 

(i) Items (a) and (b).—The amendments made in these items 
are clarificatory in nature. 

(ii) Item (f) .—The amendment made in this item is to make the 
intention clear. 



Sec. 2 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 987/5 

(iii) New item (h).—In the opinion of the Committee, the 
expression “adviser”, in original item h(iii) in the Bill is 
rather wide. The Committee have, therefore, preferred to 
restore the language of section 3(a) of the Prevention of 
Disqualification Act, 1953 with suitable minor changes. 

(iv) Item (i ).—Original item (h) (i) and (if).— 

This was the most controversial item in the entire Bill as It 
raised the question of the desirability of appending a schedule to 
the Bill enumerating the Committees membership of which would 
entail disqualification. The Committee have given their most care¬ 
ful thought to the question and have come to the conclusion that 
the law on the subject of disqualification of members of Parliament 
should be clear and unambiguous. The Committee, therefore, 
decided that on the model of the British House of Commons 
Disqualification Act, 1957, the Bill should contain a schedule which 
should enumerate the Committees whose membership should dis¬ 
qualify. The Committee have accordingly attached a schedule to 
the Bill, Part I of which enumerates the Committees membership 
of which would entail disqualification and Part II, the Committees 
in which the office of chairman, secretary, or member of the stand¬ 
ing or executive committees would entail disqualification, but not 
the office of a member only. 

The original item (h) has accordingly been amended. 

The Committee are fully aware that in the very nature of things 
any schedule of the nature now attached cannot be exhaustive or 
complete at any time. The Committee, therefore, recommend the 
constitution of a Standing Parliamentary Committee composed of 
members of both the Houses of Parliament which will undertake 
the work of continuous scrutiny in respect of all existing and future 
comntittees with a view to recommending to the Government which 
of them ought or ought not to disqualify so that legislation for 
amending the schedule may be brought forward by Government 
from time to time. 

(v) Item ( j)—Original items (i).—The Committee are of the 
view that village revenue officer who performs police duties should 
not be exempted from disqualification. 

The item has been amended accordingly. 

(vi) Original item (j ).—The Committee have omitted this item 
in the original Bill as in their opinion such part-time offices should 
not be exempted from disqualification for membership of Parlia¬ 
ment. 



987/6 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part II 


18. Clause 4 (Original clause 3).—The amendment made in this 
clause is of a formal nature. 

19. The Committee recommend that the Bill as amended be 
passed. 

HUKAM SINGH,_ 

New Delhi; Chairman, 

The KKfi September, 1958. Joint Committee. 



Sec. 2] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


987/7 


MINUTES OF DISSENT 

I 

Article 102 of the Constitution provides as follows: — 

“102. (1) A person shall be disqualified for being chosen as, end 
for being, a member of either House of Parliament— 

(a) if he holds any office of profit under the Government of 
India or the Government of any State, other than an 
office declared by Parliament by law not to disqualify 
its holder;” 

Article 191 is similarly worded. 

The Parliament passed XXI of 1950, LXVIII of 1951 and 1 of 
1954 for declaring certain offices the holding of which will not dis¬ 
qualify. But it was widely felt that the above enactments did not 
decide the matter appropriately covering all the necessary aspects 
of the problem to the satisfaction of all concerned. 

As a result many members of Parliament representing all shades 
of opinion approached the late Speaker Shri G. V. Mava- 
lankar and a meeting was subsequently held on 30th April, 1954 
to consider this question. It was noted that the main criterion to 
determine whether an office was an office of profit or not was the 
emoluments that a member was likely to receive if he held such 
an office in so far as these enactments mentioned above were con¬ 
cerned. The meeting however thought that it was not a satisfactory 
position and the aspects of the matter such as the position, power 
or patronage enjoyed by the holder of that office were also relevant 
factors which should be taken into account even though no mone¬ 
tary advantage was involved. Ultimately the Speaker in consulta¬ 
tion with the Chairman of the Rajya Sabha appointed a Committee 
of 15 members to study the various matters connected with the issue 
and the said Committee devoted considerable time to the study of 
this complicated question and presented their report, which was 
unanimous. 

The present Bill though professing that it was based on the 
report was in many respects contrary to its recommendations. In 
effect its approach was not to disqualify any office if the emolu¬ 
ments did not exceed the compensatory allowance which it defined 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II 


987/8 


to mean Rs. 21 per day in addition to conveyance allowance, house 
rent allowance or travelling allowance for the purpose of enabling 
the receiver to recoup any expenditure incurred by him in perform¬ 
ing the functions of that office. The House felt that this matter was 
not so simple and could not be fairly decided on the basis of this 
criterion alone and motions for Select Committee were made in 
the House and the Government as a result were pleased to bring 
their own motion for Joint Committee. 

After the Committee on Offices of Profit made its report the 
Parliament of Great Britain passed its law in 1957 in which a sche¬ 
dule of disqualifying offices was appended to the Act. The Com¬ 
mittee on Offices of Profit had also examined the composition of 
about 200 committees or more and produced certain lists of offices 
which disqualify the holders thereof. But unfortunately the Cen¬ 
tral and State Governments did not furnish the lists of all the offi¬ 
ces and committees and other requisite material. The present 
Joint Committee also tried their best to collect the entire material 
but unfortunately they also did not succeed in their attempt. Even 
all the Ministries of the Central Government did not furnish the 
required information. No wonder that the States also did not fully 
comply with the request of the Committee with the result that the 
schedule appended to the Report is incomplete and it is apprehend¬ 
ed that many other committees may be found whose composition 
and terms may warrant their being included in the Schedule. It 
is, however, clear and admitted that in so far as future committees 
are concerned the Schedule could not possibly include or exclude 
them. In fact the very words of Article'102 indicate that the Parlia¬ 
ment is only empowered to declare certain offices which are in 
existence to be such as would not attract disqualification. Unless 
the composition of such committees or incidence of such offices were 
fully examined the Parliament could not express its opinion in 
anticipation. Moreover, the subject is so complicated and intricate 
that no uniform and all-embracing principle could satisfactorily 
clinch the question. The basis of exclusion is the exercise of exe¬ 
cutive and judicial function or conferment of power, position, influ¬ 
ence or patronage by grant of scholarship, lands, etc. or even other¬ 
wise. And yet many committees or offices which involved the exer¬ 
cise of executive functions or even conferment of power and patron¬ 
age have not been included in the Schedule as in the undeveloped 
state of our country public interest required that the talents and 
attainments of members of Parliament should be allowed to be 
utilised for the benefit of the country specially when educational, 
health or development aspects demanded the same. Moreover, as 
the consequence of holding the office of profit for members of 
Parliament or the candidate for election are very serious it was 



Sec. 2] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 98 -/p 

deemed essential that a clear declaration be made by law if the 
acceptance of a certain specific office attracted such consequences. 
This was the ratio decedendi of the Act of Great Britain also. This 
report of the Joint Committee has also brought it out in clear terms. 

The Joint Committee went through the terms and composition 
of about 1200 committees but as previously mentioned its attempt 
to go through all the committees failed because some Central 
Ministries and the States did not co-operate. It makes me sad that 
the best efforts of the Chairman of the Committee who was no less 
a person than the Deputy Speaker of the Lok Sabha and of our 
Law Minister and Deputy Law Minister failed in such an important 
matter and today we feel frustrated in so far that the Schedule is 
not complete, and if we enact the Schedule we must be in effect 
doing what we ought not to do if we respect the behests of our 
Constitution. 

This Bill has been designed to preserve the independence of the 
Members of Parliament which is so important in a democratic State. 
Freedom of Members of Parliament from being corrupted by exe¬ 
cutive influence as a result of acceptance of office of profit is the 
sine qua non of free votes and freedom cannot be secured unless 
the Schedule is complete and it is not wise to deliberately keep the 
door open for such influences. Nor is it the part of wisdom to give 
the Schedule an appearance of finality when we know it is not final. 
I, therefore, proposed that the Bill may be ‘finalised’ so far as 
it goes and an understanding be given by the Government that 
within a period of six months scrutiny will have been finished in 
regard to the rest of the Committees, so that all candidates and 
those who are inclined to accept offices of profit may clearly know 
where they stand. 

In the report a reference has been made to the Standing Parlia¬ 
mentary Committee and its undertaking the work of continuous 
scrutiny in respect of all existing and future committees. But the 
committee has not been given statutory recognition nor has the 
assurance of its work in regard to existing committees being finish¬ 
ed within six months been given. 

I do not agree with certain recommendations of Ihe Committee 
also. 

In the first place it should come into force on 1st January, 1959 
and not on 31st December, 1958; otherwise we shall have conflict 
between the date of enforcement of the Act and the previous one 
which exempted members and gave immunity for the period 
including the date 31st December, 1958 and the unwary may be 
597 G of I Ex—2 



987/10 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part II 

enmeshed. Secondly, the division was between statutory and non- 
statutory or advisory and non-advisory committees and having 
accepted one classification viz. statutory or non-statutory should 
not have accepted the confusion of including advisory committees 
in addition. 

The completeness and finality which the preparation of the Sche¬ 
dule gave to this important matter has been taken away by Including 
the provision about advisory committees whose functions and terms 
have yet not been determined. 

The blank cheque sought to be given in the manner about appoin¬ 
ting advisory committees or advisers whose powers and functions 
are not yet known takes away the entire merit of the legislation 
and uncertainty and arbitrariness are .introduced by the back door. 
Similarly the Committee should have finally decided the question 
of disqualification of the so called Revenue Officers, Lambardars, 
etc. when the entire material was present before itself and not 
left the matter to be determined by the Scrutiny Officer or other 
Officers and thereby introduced uncertainty and doubt in this 
matter. 

In this original Bill in [h (iii) ] apart from this kind of bodies; 
statutory and non-statutory another entirely unknown (to any 
other comparable) entity was introduced. 

“(iii) an adviser created temporarily for the purpose of advising 
the Government or any other authority on any matter of public im¬ 
portance.” Unfortunately there was no room in the classification of 
statutory and non-statutory committees for this unwanted and 
strange being and therefore these advisory committees were suggest¬ 
ed though there can be no manner of doubt that the advisory com¬ 
mittees must either be statutory or non-statutory. 

This is not all. With a view to make room for the exercise of 
personal nepotism even an unusual provision ‘the office of chairman 
or member of a committee (whether consisting of one or more mem¬ 
bers) set up temporarily for the purpose etc.’ had to be inserted. This 
need hardly be stressed that appointment of advisory committees Is 
well known and since several members are appointed usually such 
appointments have clearly the appearance of impersonal appoint¬ 
ments consisting as they do of many members but the appointment 
of a single man constituting him into the exalted name of a com¬ 
mittee is unknown and leaves room for the appearance of personal 
favour. 



Sec. 2] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


987/U 


If all the Ministries appoint an adviser each for particular bilis 
or matters of public importance the House will be swamped with 
these advisers. In the Great Britain Act the number of voting Minis¬ 
ters has been limited. We have already exempted Deputy Ministers 
though the Constitution only exempted the Ministers. We have 
given further exemption to Parliamentary Secretaries, Chief Whip 
and even a Whip. There is no further room for advisers of Minis¬ 
ters. I hope the House will think twice before agreeing to this novel 
institution of adviser whose powers and authorities we do not know. 

In regard to advisory committees also and much more for the 
hybrid adviser who is both an individual and a committee the 
House will not be advised to give a blank cheque. In many of the 
advisory Committees we have found that though the name is advi¬ 
sory yet the functions are of executive nature and involve exercise 
of powers of patronage etc. and therefore to make a provision anti¬ 
cipatory in nature of this wide and all embracing implication is nei¬ 
ther just nor legal. We cannot say for this office what powers it 
will involve and we cannot be a party to declare before-hand that 
such advisory board or adviser will be an office of profit or not. 
This attempt is opposed to the basic approach to the question at 
issue and sets at naught the principal of making a Schedule. 

Whether there is Compensatory allowance or no compensatory 
allowance, the office of adviser to a Minister in the eye of the public 
will be pregnant with powers of great patronage, honour and power 
and as such is extremely repugnant to the underlying idea of its not 
being an office of profit. Thus (h) is wholly unacceptable. 

The provision contained in (j) is equally wrong. I do not know 
if there is any office answering the description of village revenue 
officers mentioned in this clause in the States. Lambardar or Mal- 
guzar are certainly not revenue officers. Lambardar is merely a 
headman or a village officer as such. There are specific rules about 
the duties of patels, deshmukhs, lambardars etc. These rules were 
before the Joint Committee and circulated to the members. Ordi¬ 
narily, except for police patels these persons never discharge the 
functions of a police officer. The functions of a police officer are not 
defined anywhere except, perhaps, in the Police Act. In the Criminal 
Procedure Code police officer incharge of a police station is defined 
but not a police officer as such. If there is any office the holder of 
which exercises police functions it is clearly a police officer. Accord¬ 
ing to rules relating to lambardars in the Punjab and Rajasthan lam¬ 
bardars are enjoined upon in their capacity as lambardars to help the 
police and it is well known that a lambardar is always under the 



987/12 the GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part II 

thumb of the police. In many judgements of High Courts these lam- 
bardars have been regarded as persons before whom confessions if 
made are inadmissible as also that they are stock witnesses and 
helpers of police. 

In section 123 (8) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, 
Village headman as the lambardar is called and defined in the Pun¬ 
jab Tenancy Act and other laws was regarded as a person whose 
help to a candidate would have vitiated the election. 

The principle, therefore, that if canvassing or help of a person 
renders the election invalid and such a person should not be allow¬ 
ed to stand is accepted, as given on page 26 of the Report of the Com¬ 
mittee on Offices of Profit, all these persons mentioned in (j) should 
not have been exempted. 

There is a very clever attempt in linking the collection of land 
revenue with functions of police officers so that all these persons 
who are considered in popular view as not fit for becoming Members 
of Parliament are exempted. 

These persons who only collect revenue and on whom the rules 
do not provide any further obligation may or may not be exempted. 
The collection of revenue and as a result, getting some money clearly 
justifies their inclusion in the category of offices of profit. But the 
real grievance is not this. The lambardar’s duties are defined in the 
rules. They are fifteen in number and it is notorious that these 
lambardars are thoroughly government henchmen, in every sense 
of the word. Their exemption is unjustified and is fundamentally 
opposed to the idea that public interests demand the inclusion of 
such men from Parliament membership who are under executive 
influence. A word from thanedar or tehsildar would determine his 
vote and exemption for him because he does not discharge the func- 
.ions of a police officer is not justifiable. 

For grounds given on page 22 of the Report of the Committee on 
Offices of Profit I do not favour exemption for vice-chancellors who 
are appointed by Government and get their pay from government- 
controlled sources and are so fully occupied in their work that they 
can hardly find time for discharging the duties of membership of 
Parliament which is now itself a full time job. 

After hearing the arguments of Honourable members of the Joint 
Committee I am convinced that (d) and (e) of clause 3 should be 
deleted. 



Sec. 2] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 987/13 

The Great Britain Act should have served as a guide for us and I 
am sorry that our approach to the question has not been a right 
one. 

Section 1 of the Act of the Great Britain which is the soul of the 
whole measure divided all the offices into two. Either they were 
disqualified or not disqualified. Thus the law is certain and com¬ 
plete. 

Here neither all the committees have been scrutinised nor all the 
offices have been examined. The offices of servants of local bodies 
controlled by the States, the offices of Honorary Magistrates and 
other offices have not been scrutinised. 

We have further by excepting advisory committees and advisers 
complicated the question and threw the committees and offices into 
the hotchpotch of uncertainty. We failed to take a decision about 
village officials though the entire material was with us. 

The Committee agreed to substitute the words ‘any police func¬ 
tions’ for the words ‘any function of a police officer’, appearing in 
the report as the Committee had only passed the words ‘any police 
functions’. Yet I feel, that the words ‘police functions’ have not been 
defined anywhere and these words will again give rise to different 
interpretation and complications. It would have been better if a 
decision on merits about each official would have been taken. 

This is our first attempt at this kind of legislation about offices of 
profit and I hope an amending Bill will soon be brought to make up 
the deficiencies and put the entire matter right. 

New Delhi; THAKUR DAS BHARGAVA. 

The 9th September, 1958. 


II 

Disqualifying a person for being chosen as, and for being a 
member of either House of Parliament, if he holds an office of profit 
under the Government, is a wholesome principle, and has been 
enshrined in Article 102 of the Constitution. 

The present Bill seeks to exempt certain holders of offices of 
profit from attracting the disqualification under Article 102 of the 
Constitution. 

I am constrained to mention that the final shape in which the 
Bill has emerged from the Joint Committee, after protracted deli¬ 
berations and meticulous screenings, has completely frustrated that 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


987/14 


[Pari II 


objective. Beginning from Vice-Chancellors of Universities and 
office bearers of statutory and non-statutory bodies to members of 
home guards and village officials, all holders of offices of profit of 
diverse categories and complexions have been exempted from 
incurring disqualification. This, I am afraid, will not only vitiate 
the democratic fabric but will also prevent the institutional purity 
of the Parliament of India. Free and fair, elections, redeemed 
from undue and undesirable influences will assume merely a con¬ 
ceptual and national form, after this Bill is enacted without funda¬ 
mental modifications. 


The Parliament has every reason to be fearful, that a large 
number of Members who are the holders of offices of profit under 
the Government, might feel themselves bound to support the 
Executive—the source of such offices, which are capable of confer- 
ing benefits and patronages—when the Executive is in conflict with 
the Parliament. 

In spite of our tireless pleadings, no objective standards and 
principles could be laid down for discriminating between offices and 
offices, for the purpose of attracting disqualification. 

In the U.K. Act, certain broad principles are clearly discernible, 
which could have been considered by the Joint Committee. 

In the 18th Century, a dividing line was determined, whereby 
non-political office holders were disqualified and political office 
holders were not, though their numbers were strictly limited. 

In the present century the Spens Committee evolved the follow¬ 
ing tests in considering a particular office whether it incurred any 
disqualification:— 

(1) Whether the offices were incompatible with membership 

of the House of Commons. 

(2) Whether because they involved the physical impossibility 

of simultaneous attendance in two places. 

13) Possible patronage and its extent; and 

(4) Conflict of duties. 

I regret to say, the Joint Committee had no such test before 
them and in its absence the whole pattern is chaotic and arbitrary. 

I share very strongly the view with the others, that Members of 
Parliament should on no account associate themselves with 
industrial and commercial undertakings in the Public Sector, in any 
capacity, Such offices are thoroughly incompatible with the nature 



Sec. 2] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


987/15 


of the duties expected of a Member of Parliament, who in the ulti¬ 
mate analysis is a wholetime servant of his constituents and their 
interests. One can either serve the God or the Mammon—certainly 
not both. 

New Delhi; SURENDBA MAHANTY 

The 9th September, 1958. 


m 

I am sorry I cannot concur with the views of the majority of the 
Committee. On principle I am against any schedule being attached 
to the Bill. This I plead is not in consonance with the spirit of our 
constitution. 

I want to keep the purity and impartiality of the members of 
Parliament to remain intact. The Parliament’s activities are so 
vastly expanding now that a serious member of Parliament would 
have no time left with him to serve honestly on 'any other body 
other than Parliament. So there should be no provisions in this Bill 
by which Members of Parliament might not do full justice to their 
duties in Parliament. In future there might arise occasions when 
political parties within the Parliament are so evenly balanced that 
crossing of floor by even a few members to the other side might 
endanger the government of day. This will add towards instability 
of the democratically set up government. For this reason I would 
have liked that no more provisions were added by which disquali¬ 
fications of Members of Parliament were removed. The Government 
would have better scrapped Article 102 of the constitution before 
coming forward with such a Bill. I hope the Parliament would take 
a very serious note of it. 

New Delhi; BRAJ RAJ SINGH. 

The 9th September, 1958. 


IV 

In spite of the Committee having taken such a long time to con¬ 
sider different points of views it was not possible for it to accommo¬ 
date all the points of view; and especially due to the unavoidable 
absence from sittings where decisions on most of the matters in 
clause 3 were taken, a minute of dissent has become necessary for me. 

It would have been better if the Bill had not been made so sket¬ 
chy ia the original drafting itself. The British Act would have been 
a better guide in this respect. However, as this Act when passed 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II 


987/r6 


would be almost an annual cropper before Parliament on par with 
the Tariff Bill, for incorporating additions and eliminations from the 
Schedule, there would be scope for improvement. Experience would 
also show that this is necessary, 

A point of view was that there should be a schedule to make it 
clear beyond doubt membership of which of the existing Committees 
should disqualify from membership of Parliament. This schedule 
now forms a part of the Bill. But there should have been a section 
on par with section 5 of the British Act where the Act itself provides 
for the amendment of the schedule and ratification by the Parlia¬ 
ment from time to time. This has been left to be presumed in the 
very nature of things but nothing would have been lost by adding 
an additional clause to the effect in the Bill itself once the schedule 
was accepted. This may be done by the Houses by an Amendment. 

The norms that apply for disqualifying a member of Parliament 
from sitting on any non-Parliamentary Committee during his mem¬ 
bership of Parliament are twofold; (1) a member should be safe¬ 
guarded from corruptibility to do his duty to the electorate in public 
interest by being put in a profitable position by the Government of 
the day where he would gain either in terms of money or power 
and be tempted to carry out Government’s aims as against those of 
public interest; (2) where his duties as a member of Parliament 
which should have a first claim on his time, would suffer as a result 
of this acceptance of a position on a statutory or non-statutory body 
in an executive capacity, such offices should be avoided. 

In my humble opinion in most of the items of clause 3 of the 
Bill these norms do not seem to have been strictly applied. To 
make the note brief only a short mention of these reasons is being 
made. 

Clause 3 item (e).—The office of the sheriff should have been 
dropped from here, as the duty of the office to carry the mace at the 
swearing in ceremony of the judges of the High Court is not strictly 
in keeping with the dignity of the position of a member of Parlia 
ment in the opinion of some. This is not a point however, that come 
under the two norms mentioned above. 

Item {}).—The Vice Chancellor’s office should not be exempted 
from disqualification for more reasons than one, especially where it 
can be an office by virtual nomination by Government in spite of the 
lowest number of votes secured by a candidate for Vice-Chancellor’s 
post as in the current case of the Banaras Hindu University. There 
are other reasons like the post carrying a salary with it of a substan¬ 
tial amount mainly from Government funds and last but not the 



Sec. 2] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 987/17 

least the Vice-Chancellor as a Member of Parliament taking part 
m the discussions in the Parliament on affairs under review in case 
of scandals relating to their University. This might make their posi¬ 
tion invidious and the discussion undignified also. The members of 
the Executive Committee or the syndicate can, by no stretch of ' 
imagination be considered to be members of an “advisory” body 
and m the light of the observations in para 17 of the report on item i 
[Original item (h) (i)&(ii)] they also should have been disqualified 
as being members of an executive body. 

Item (g ).—'The period for a “delegation abroad” should have 
been stated clearly as not being of more than a year as otherwise 
this would interfere with a member’s duty to his Constituency. 

Item (h ).—The period “temporarily” also should have been 
defined as not being more than a year for the same reason as men¬ 
tioned under item (g) above. 

Item (j).—The Patel’s office should be excluded only when it is 
a hereditary office and as such not in the gift of Government as then 
it would be a paid post in the gift of Government. This is necessary 
to mention as the State Legislatures specially would take the jfte- 
sent Prevention of Disqualification Act as a model for their Acts. 
Land Revenue being a State Subject, the Patel though not mainly 
under the obligation of the Central Government is under the obli¬ 
gation of the State Government in any case. In fact, he may not 
strictly incur a disqualification for a Parliamentary seat, but should 
do so for the State legislature. The position in this respect prevail¬ 
ing in every State, was not very clear. This may create complica¬ 
tions later. 

The schedule is not complete as a full list as information from all 
sources, the States in particular was not available. This fact will 
have to be provided for by giving the power to a permanent com¬ 
mittee of the Houses to temporarily prevent the disqualification 
incqrred until the next amending Act is passed by the Parliament 
and this as already pointed out above, should have been included 
by a separate section in this Bill. 

New Delhi; SEETA PARMANAND 

The 10 th September, 1958. 

V 

The Bill, no doubt, has been improved by the Joint Committee, 
but, in some respects we differ from the majority and hence we 
append our note of dissent. 

597 froflExt.—3. 




987/18 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part II 

We do not agree with clause 3(d), as we do not consider it 
proper to remove the disqualification of Home Guards who perform 
Police functions and who work under the directions and command 
of Police Officers. It is derogatory for a member of Parliament to 
function like that. Home Guards are different from the National 
Cadet Corps, Territorial Army, or Reserve and Auxiliary Airforce, 
the members of which are embodied for national duties only in case 
of National emergencies, whereas the Home Guards function even 
in normal times without any amergency, to perform the Police 
duties and to help the Police in its day to day functions. A Home 
Guard is regarded as Police Officer and public servant and has the 
same powers as a Police Officer when called on duty. 

Clause 3 (/).—It is not desirable to remove disqualification for a 
Vice-Chancellor of University to enable him to become a Membei 
of Parliament, as the duties of a Yide-Chancellor are incompatible 
with the duties of a Member of Parliament. Vice-chancellorship is 
a wholetime job and now the Membership of the House is also 
becoming a wholetime business. Moreover, some of the Vice-Chan¬ 
cellors are appointed and are removable by Government and some 
of them draw salaries and allowances. Hence, considering all these 
facts, the Committee on Offices of Profit, under paragraph 44 of 

their report, have advised that exemption from disqualification to 

the Office of Vice-Chancellor should not be given. 

, Clause 3 (h ).—We agree that the Members of Parliament should 
go on Committees which are of a purely advisory nature and are 
constituted only for the purpose of making an enquiry and collect¬ 
ing statistics and tending advice to the Government or 

other authorities, but we have found that many of the advisory 

Committees are of an objectionable nature where disqualification 
should not be removed. In the Schedule Part I the very first two 
items, namely: (a) Advisory Committee for Air India International 
Corporation and (b) Advisory Committee for the Indian Airlines 
Corporation, and also the Company Law Advisory Commission, have 
been placed on the Schedule, the membership of which will entail 
disqualification, although they are designated as Advisory. This 
the Joint Committee decided looking into the functions of these 
Committees. 

Therefore to grant a general exemption for all Advisory Com¬ 
mittees, without looking into their functions as is being enacted in 
clause 3(h), is not correct. The wording of this clause therefore 
needs to be suitably amended. 

Clause 3 (i).—It was explained to the Joint Committee that 
clause 3 (i) removes disqualification of a Chairman, Director or 



987/19 


Sec. 2 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


Member of any of the existing Statutory or Non-Statutody body and 
does not apply to the Committees or Commissions to be constituted 
in future. This intention is not very clearly brought out in clause 
3(i). The law should be clear and unambiguous, otherwise it is quite 
likely that someone may Incur disqualification inadvertently. Hence 
this clause needs to be redrafted to bring the idea more clearly and 
explicitly. 

This clause removes disqualification from all the existing statu¬ 
tory or non-statutory Committees which are not mentioned in the 
Schedule. The Joint Committee made its best efforts to examine 
all the existing Committees, Commissions, whether statutory or 
non-statutory, both in the States and at the Centre, but, inspite of 
their best efforts to get all the material they could not get informa¬ 
tion about all the existing Committees. The Sub-Committee in their 
Report have appended a list of the Committees which they consider 
to be of a non-ob j actionable nature, but there may be many more who 
have not come under the purview of the Sub-Committee, and to 
grant exemption from disqualification, even of such Committees 
which have not been examined by the Joint Committee, is not a 
-proper thing to do. By doing so, we are removing disqualification, 
from Committees which should entail disqualification, if their func¬ 
tions are of a disqualifying nature. Therefore, we are opposed to 
giving such a blanket cover and such Committees which have not 
been examined must be examined before granting an exemption. 
We recommend the amendment of clause 3(i) accordingly. 

Clause 3(j ).—We totally oppose the incorporation of this clause 
in the Bill, as we do not approve of the village revenue officer, who 
might be remunerated by a share or commission of the amount of 
land revenue collected by him to be given exemption. They are as 
good a public servant as those who draw regular salaries. In some 
States, these village revenue officers are under an obligation to help 
the police in the discharge of their duties, prescribed under the 
Rules of Service of Village Revenue Officers. We recommend dele¬ 
tion pf this clause. 

6. Schedu 1/y .—In drawing up the Schedule, the Joint CommitLee 
were guided by one basic fact that the Members of Parliament 
should not oe allowed to go on Committees or Commissions which 
yield vas executive powers or influence, and deal with large amounts 
of Gov nment funds. Keeping this in view we recommend that 
in Part I of the Schedule the following should be added:— 

(a) Atomic Energy Commission, 

(b) Central Board of Film Censors, 

(c) Central Social Welfare Board, 



987/20 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part II 

(d) Khadi and Village Industries Commission, 

(e) Special Recruitment Board, 

(f) National Development Council, and 

(g) University Grants Commission. 

We may add here that the University Grants Commission in the 
United Kingdom Act is put on the Schedule, the members of which 
entail disqualification for being Members of the House of Commons. 

To put a Member of Parliament on the Recruitment Board is 
to violate the very sanctity of the Public Service Commission, which 
should function free from political influences to which a Member of 
Parliament is prone to. 

New Delhi; 

The 8th September , 1958 . 

RAJENDRA PRATAP SINHA 
KHUSHWAQT RAI. 



Sec. 2] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


987/21 


Bill No. 93 B of 1957 

THE PARLIAMENT (PREVENTION OF 
DISQUALIFICATION) BILL, 1957 

(As AMENDED BY THE JOINT COMMITTEE) 

(Words side-lined or underlined indicate the amendments suggested 
by the Committee; asterisks indicate omissions) 


BILL 

to declare that certain offices of profit wider the Government shall 
'not disqualify the holders thereof for being chosen as, or for 
being, members of Parliament. 

Be it enacted by Parliament in the Ninth Year of the Republic 
of India as follows: — 

1 (1) This Act may be called the Parliament (Prevention of Short title 
v ' J and com- 

Disqualification) Act, 1958, menccment. 


(2) It shall come into force on the 31st day of December, 1958. 
2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,— 


Definitions. 


$0 of 1954 - 


(a) “compensatory allowance” means any sum of money 
payable to the holder of an office by way of daily allowance 
(such allowance not exceeding the amount of daily allowance 
to which a member of Parliament is entitled under the Salaries 
and Allowances of Members of Parliament Act, 1954), any con¬ 
veyance allowance, house-rent allowance or travelling allowance 
for the purpose of enabling him to recoup any expenditure 
incurred by him in performing the functions of that office; 



[Part II 


987/22 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


(h) “statutory body” means any corpoiation, committee, 
commission, council, board or other body of persons, whether 
incorporated or not, established by or under any law for the 
than a statutory body. 

[c) “non-statutory body'* means any body of persons other 5 
than a statutory body. 


Certain 
offices of 
profit not to 
disqualify. 


3. It is hereby declared that none of the following offices, in so 
far as it is an office of profit under the Government of India or the 
Government of any State, shall disqualify the holder thereof for 


being chosen as, or for being, a member of Parliament, namely: — 


io 


(a) any office held by a Minister, Minister of State or 
Deputy Minister for the Union or for any State, whether ex 
officio or by name; 


( b ) the office of Chief Whip, Deputy Chief Whip or Whip 
in Parliament or of a Parliamentary Secretary; 

(c) the office of a member of any force raised or maintained 
under the National Cadet Corps Act, 1948, the Territorial Army 
Act, 1948, or the Reserve and Auxiliary Air Forces Act, 1952; 

(d) the office of a member of a Home Guard constituted 
under any law for the time being in force in any State; 

(e) the office of sheriff in the city of Bombay, Calcutta or 
Madras; 

( f ) the office of Vice-Chancellor of a University or of 
chairman or member of the syndicate, senate, executive com¬ 
mittee, council, court or any other body which is an advisory 25 
body, connected with a University; 


31 of 1948. 
56 of 1948. 
62 of 1952. 


20 


(g) the office of a member of any delegation or mission 
sent outside India by the Government for any special purpose; 

(h) the office of chairman or member of a committee 
(whether consisting of one or more members), set up tempo- 30 
rarily for the purpose of advising the Government or any other 
authority in respect of any matter of public importance or for 
the purpose of making an inquiry into, or collecting statistics 

in respect of, any such matter, if the holder of* such office is not 
entitled to any remuneration other than compensatory 35 
allowance; 

(i) the office of chairman, director or member of any 
statutory or non-statutory body other than any such body as 
is referred to in clause ( h ), if the holder of such office is not 



Sec, 2] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


987/23 


entitled to any remuneration other than compensatory allc w- 
ance, but excluding ( i ) the office of chairman, director or 
member of any statutory or non-statutory body specified in 
Part I of the Schedule and (id) the office of chairman, secretary 
5 or member of the standing or executive committee of any sta¬ 
tutory or non-statutory body specified in Part II of the Schedule: 

(j) the office of village revenue officer, whether called a 
lambardar, malguzar, patch deshmukh or by any other name, 
whose duty is to c illect land revenue and who is remunerated 
10 by a share of, or commission on, the amount of land revenue 
collected by him, but who does not discharge any police 
functions. 


t > Ci 1950. 
-3 1 MSI. 
x ji 54. 


4. The Parliament (Prevention of Disqualification) Act, 1950, Repeal, 
the Parliament Preventi m of Disqualification Act, 1951, and the 
*5 Prevention of DisqualificationAct, 1953, are hereby repealed. 



987/24 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part II 


THE SCHEDULE 
[See section 3 (i)] 

PART I 

Bodies under the Central Government 

Advisory Committee for the Air-India Internationa] Corporation 5 
appointed under section 41 of the Air Corporations Act, 1953 (27 
of 1953). 

Advisory Committee for the Indian Airlines Corporation 
appointed under section 41 of the Air Corporations Act, 1953 (27 
of 1953). 10 

Air-India International Corporation established under section 
3 of the Air Corporations Act, 1953 (27 of 1953). 

Air Transport Council constituted under section 30 of the Air 
Corporations Act, 1953 (27 of 1953). 

Board of Directors of the Export Risks Insurance Corporation 15 
(Private) Limited. 

Board of Directors of the Heavy Electricals (Private) Limited. 

Board of Directors of the Hindustan Cables (Private) Limited. 

Board of Directors of the Hindustan Insecticides (Private) 
Limited. 20 

Board of Directors of the Hindustan Machine Tools (Private) 
Limited. 

Board of Directors of the Hindustan Shipyard Limited. 

Board of Directors of the Nangal Fertilizers and Chemicals 
(Private) Limited, 25 

Board of Directors of the National Coal Development Corporation 
(Private) Limited. 

Board of Directors of the National Development Corporation 
(Private) Limited. 

Board of Directors of the National Instruments (Private) Limited. 33 

Board of Directors of the National Small Industries Corporation 
(Private) Limited. 

Board of Directors of the Neyveli Lignite Corporation (Private) 
Limited. 



See. 2 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 987^5 


Board of Directors of the Sindri Fertilizers and Chemicals (Pri¬ 
vate) Limited. 

Board of Directors of the State Trading Corporation of India 
(Private) Limited. 

5 Central Warehousing Corporation established under section 17 j 
of the Agricultural Produce (Development and Warehousing) 
Corporations Act, 1956 (28 of 1956). 

Coal Board established under section 4 of the Coal Mines (Conser¬ 
vation and Safety) Act, 1952 (12 of 1952). 

K) Coal Mines Labour Housing Board constituted under section 6 
of the Coal Mines Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1947 (32 of 1947). 

Commissioners for the Port of Calcutta. 

Committee for the allotment of land in the township of 
Gandhidam. 

ly Company Law Advisory Commission constituted under section 
410 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956). 

Cotton Textiles Fund Committee constituted under the Textile 
Funds Ordinance, 1944 (34 of 1944). 

Dock Labour Board, Bombay, established under the Bombay Dock 
20 Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1956, made under the 
Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act, 1948 (9 of 1948). 

Dock Labour Board, Calcutta, established under the Calcutta 
Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1956, made 
under the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act, 1948 
25 (9 Of 1948). 

Dock Labour Board, Madras, established under the Madras Dock 
Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1956, made under the 
Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act, 1948 (9 of 1948). 

Employees’ State Insurance Corporation established under 
30 section 3 of the Employee’s State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948). 

Forward Markets Commission established under section 3 of the 
Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1952 (74 of 1952). 

Indian Air Lines Corporation established under section 3 of the 
Air Corporations Act, 1953 (27 of 1953). 

35 Industrial Finance Corporation of India established under section 
3 of the Industrial Finance Corporation Act, 1948 (15 of 1948). 

Licensing Committee constituted under rule 10 of the Registration 
and Licensing of Industrial Undertakings Rules, 1952, made under 
the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951). 

597 G of I Ex.—4. 



987 126 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part ll 


Mining Boards constituted under section 12 of the Mines Act, 1952 
(35 of 1952). 

National Co-operative Development and Warehousing Board 
established under section 3 of the Agricultural Produce (Develop¬ 
ment and Warehousing) Corporations Act, 1956 (28 of 1956). 5 

Rehabilitation Finance Administration constituted under section 
3 of the Rehabilitation Finance Administration Act, 1948 (12 of 
1948). 

Regional Boards appointed by the Employees’ State Insurance 
Corporation under section 25 of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 10 
1948 (34 of 1948). 

Standing Committee of the Employees’ State Insurance Corpora¬ 
tion constituted under section 8 of the Employees’ State Insurance 
Act, 1948 (34 of 1948). 

Tariff Commission established under section 3 of the Tariff T 5 
Commission Act, 1951 (50 of 1951). 

Trustees of the Port of Bombay. 

Trustees of the Port of Madras. 

Trustees or Commissioners of any major Port as defined in the 
Indian Ports Act, 1908 (15 of 1908), other than the Port of Calcutta, 20 
Bombay or Madras. 

Bodies under State Governments 
Andhra Pradesh 

Agricultural Improvement Fund Committee constituted under 
section 3 of the Hyderabad Agricultural Improvement Act, 1952. 

Co-operative Agricultural and Marketing Development Fund 
Committee. 

Livestock Purchasing Committee. 

Assam 

Adhi Conciliation Boards constituted under section 2A of the 30 
Assam Adhiars Protection and Regulation Act, 1948. 

Assam Evacuee Property Management Committee constituted 
under section 12 of the Assam Evacuee Property Act, 1951. 

Assam Text Book Committee. 

Bihar ^ 

Mining Board for Coal Mines. 

Text Book and Education Literature Committee. 



See. 2] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 987/27 


Bombay 

Allocation Committee (Allopathic) under the Employees’ State 
Insurance Scheme. 

Allocation Committee (Ayurvedic) under the Employees’ State 
5 Insurance Scheme. 

Board to conduct over-all supervision of the business and affairs 
of the Narsinggiriji Mills, Sholapur. 

Bombay Housing Board constituted under section 3 of the Bombay 
Housing Board Act, 1948. 

10 Bombay State Electricity Board constituted under section 5 of 
the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 (54 of 1948). 

Bombay State Electricity Consultative Council constituted under 
section 16 of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 (54 of 1948). 

Medical Service Committee under the Employees’ State Insurance 
tj Scheme. 

Pharmaceutical Committee under the Employees’ State Insurance 
Scheme. 

Regional Transport Authority for Ahmedabad, Aurangabad, 
Bombay, Nagpur, Poona, Rajkot and Thana constituted under 
20 section 44 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 (4 of 1939). 

Saurashtra Housing Board constituted under section 3 of the 
Saurashtra Housing Board Act, 1954. 

State Transport Authority constituted under section 44 of the 
Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 (4 of 1939). 

25 Vidarbha Housing Board constituted under section 3 of the 
Madhya Pradesh Housing Act, 1950. 

Kerala 

Board of Examiners appointed under rule 8 of the Travancore- 
Cochin Boiler Attendants Rules, 1954. 

30 Panel of Assessors constituted under rule 63 of the Travancore- 
Cochin Boiler Attendants Rules, 1954. 

Panel of Assessors constituted under the Travancore-Cochin 
Economiser Rules, 1956. 

Madhya Pradesh 

35 Madhya Pradesh Housing Board constituted under section 3 of the 
Madhya Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1950. 

Mahakoshal Housing Board). 



987/28 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II 


Madras 

Committee to select Books for Study for S.S.L.C. Examination. 

Landing and Shipping Fees Committees for Minor Ports. 

Local Committee constituted under regulation 10 A of the 
Employees’ State Insurance (General) Regulations, 1950. 5 

Madras Board of Transport. 

Madras State Electricity Board constituted under section 5 of the 
Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 (54 of 1948). 

Madras State Electricity Consultative Council constituted under 
section 10 of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 (54 of 1948). 10 

Port Conservancy Boards. 

Port Trust Boards of Minor Porte. 

State Board of Communications. 

Text Books Committee. 

Mysore 15 

Board of Management, Mysore Iron and Steel Works, Bhadra- 
vathi. 

Board of Management of Industrial Concerns. 

Orissa 

Appeal Committee under the Board of Secondary Education. 20 

Orissa Board of Communications and Transport. 

Regional Transport Authority constituted under section 44 of the 
Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 (4 of 1939). 

State Transport Authority constituted under section 44 of the 
Mltfor Vehicles Act, 1939 (4 of 1939). 25 

Punjab 

Punjab State National Workers (Relief and Rehabilitation) 
Board. 

Rajasthan 

City Improvement Trust, Kota constituted under the City of Kota 30 
Improvement Act, 1940. 

Excise Appellate Board, Ajmer. 



Sec, 2] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


987/29 


Rajasthan State Electricity Board constituted under section 5 of 
the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 (54 of 1948). 

Urban Improvement Board, Jaipur. 

Uttar Pradesh 

5 Government Cement Factory Board. 

Local Committees for Agra, Kanpur, Lucknow and Saharanpur 
appointed under section 25 of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 
1048 (34 1948). 

Sub-Committee to select books for Educational Expansion Depart- 

10 ment. 

U.P. Sugar and Power Alcohol and Labour Housing Board consti¬ 
tuted under section 10 of the U.P. Sugar and Power Alcohol Indus¬ 
tries Labour Welfare and Development Fund Act, 1950. 

West Bengal 

15 Licensing Board constituted under the regulations made under 
rule 45 of the Indian Electricity Rules, 1956. 

West Bengal Housing Board constituted under the West Bengal 
Development Corporation Act, 1954. 

Bodies in Union Territories 

ao Delhi Development Authority constituted under section 3 of the 
Delhi Development Act, 1957 (61 of 1957). 

Delhi Electricity Power Control Board constituted under section 
5 of the Bombay Electricity (Special Powers) Act, 1946, as applied 
to Delhi. 

35 Delhi State Electricity Council constituted under section 16 of 
the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 (54 of 1948). 

PART II 

Bodies under the Central Government 

Central Silk Board constituted under section 4 of the Central 

30 Silk Board Act, 1948 (61 of 1948). 

Coffee Board constituted under section 4 of the Coffee Act, 1942 
(7 of 1942). 

Coir Board constituted under section 4 of the Coir Industry Act, 
1953 (45 of 1953). I 



987/30 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part II 

Development Council for Acids and! Fertilizers established under 
section 6 of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 
(65 of 1951). 

Development Council for Alkalis and Allied Industries established 
under section 6 of the Industries (Development and Regulation) 5 
Act, 1951 (65 of 1951). 

Development Council for Bicycles established under section 6 of 
the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951). 

Development Council for Drugs, Dyes, and Intermediates esta¬ 
blished under section 6 of the Industries (Development and Regula -10 
Ition) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951). 

Development Council for Food Processing Industries established 
under section 6 of the Industries (Development and Regulation) 
Act, 1951 (65 of 1951). 

Development Council for Heavy Electrical Engineering Industries 15 
established under section 6 of the Industries (Development and 
Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951). 

Development Council for Internal Combustion Engines and 
Power Driven Pump 3 established under section 6 of the Industries 
(Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951). 20 

Development Council for Light Electrical Engineering Indus¬ 
tries established under section 6 of the Industries (Development 
and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951). 

Development Council for Machine Tools established under section 
6 of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of *5 
1951). 

Development Council for Non-ferrous Metals including alloys 
established under section 6 of the Industries (Development and 
Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951). 

Development Council for Oil-based and Plastic Industries esta- 30 
blished under section 6 of the Industries (Development and Regula¬ 
tion) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951). 

Development Council for Sugar Industry established under 
section 6 of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 
(05 of 1951). 35 

Development Council for Textiles made of artificial Silk includ¬ 
ing artificial Silk Yarn establishment under section 6 of the Industries 
(Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951). 



Sec. 2 \ THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 9^3! 

Development Council for Textiles made of Wool, including wool¬ 
len yarn, hosiery, carpets and druggets established under section 6 
of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 
1951). 

Durgah Committee, Ajmer, constituted under section 4 of the 
Durgah Khawaja Saheb Act, 1955 (36 of 1955). 

Indian Central Arecanut Committee. 

Indian Central Coconut Committee constituted under section 4 
of the Indian Coconut Committee Act, 1944 (10 of 1944). 

10 Indian Central Cotton Committee constituted under section 4 of 
the Indian Cotton Cess Act, 1923 (14 of 1923). 

Indian Central Jute Committee. 

Indian Central Oilseeds Committee constituted under section 4 
of the Indian Oilseeds Committee Act, 1946 (9 of 1946). 

^ Indian Central Sugarcane Committee. 

Indian Central Tobacco Committee. 

Indian Lac Cess Committee constituted under section 4 of the 
Indian Lac Cess Act, 1930 (24 of 1930). 

Rubber Board constituted under section 4 of the Rubber Act, 

30 1947 (24 of 1947). 

Tea Board constituted under section 4 of the Tea Act, 1953 (29 of 
1953). 

Bodies under State Governments 
Andhra Pradesh 

25 Market Committee constituted under section 4 of the Hyderabad 
Agricultural Market Act No. II of 1339F. 

Market Committee constituted under section 4A of the Madras 
Commercial Crops Markets Act, 1933. 

Bihar 

30 Bihar State Board of Religious Trusts, 

Bihar Subai Majlis Awqaf, j 

Bodh Gaya Temple Advisory Committee constituted under 
section 15 of the Bodh Gaya Temple Act, 1949. ! 

Bodh Gaya Temple Management Committee constituted under 

35 section 3 of the Bodh Gaya Temple Act, 1949, 



87/32 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part II—Sec. 2] 

Kerala 

Administration Committee for Coir Purchase Scheme. 

Malabar Market Committee constituted under section 4A of the 
Madras Commercial Crops Markets Act, 1933. 

Tapioca Market Expansion Board. 5 

Madras 

Area Committee for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endown- 
ments constituted under section 12 of the Madras Hindu Religious 
and Charitable Endowments Act, 1951. 

Madras State Wakf Board constituted under section 9 of the 1° 
Wakf Act, 1954 (29 of 1954). 


Punjab 

State Marketing Board constituted under section 3 of the Patiala 
Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 2004. 


M. N. HAUL, 
Secretary. 


MitNtlto tot INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OP INDIA PRESS, 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY TfiE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1068. 



