REGISTERED No. D. 228 


< 3Che @a£ ette 





PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 19] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, MAY 12, 

I962/VAISAKHA 22, 1SS4 


NOTICE 


The undermentioned Gazettes of 
May, 1962: — 

India extraordinary 

were published upto the 3rd 

Issue 

No. No. and Date 

Isbued by 

Subicct 

182 S 0 1205, dated 24th April, 

1962. 

Ministry of Com- 
merce & Industry 

Application for renewal of re- 
cognition and grant in res- 
pect cf forward contracts 

in groundnut oil. 

18? S 0 . 1206, dated 24th April, 
1962. 

Election Commis- 
sion, India 

Appointment of Assistant 
Returning Officer to assist 
the Returning Officer. 

184 S 0 1269, dated 25th April, 

1962 

Ministry of Law 

Declaration to fill the vacancy 
in the Council of States. 

185 S O 1270, dated 26th April, 
1962. 

Election Commis- 
sion, India 

Appointment of Assistant Re- 
turning Officer to assist the 
Returning Officer. 

186 S O 1271, dated 27th April, 

1962. 

Ministry of Infor- 
mation & Broad- 
casting 

Approval of films Specified 
therein. 

187 S 0 . 1272, dated 28th April, 
1962. 

Ministry of Com- 
merce Sr Industry 

Requirements in respect of goods 
imported from abroad speci- 
fied in column (2) of Part I 
of the Schedule. 

188 S 0 . 1273, dated 28th April, 

1962. 

Ministry of Finance 

The Central Civil Services (Re- 
vised Pay) fifth Amendment 
Rules, 1962. 

j89 S 0 1274, dated 28th April, 

1962. 

Ministry of Com- 
merce & Industry 

Fixation of price for the various 
grades and qualities of rubber 
and latex of different con- 
centrations 


( 1 * 85 ) 



1586 THE GAZETTE OE INDIA: MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 [PAi.r II 


Issue 

No. 

No. and Date 

Issued by 

Subject 

190 

S.O. 1275-ESS. COMM/Iron 
& Steel-AM (58), dated 28th 
April, 1962. 

Ministry of Steel & 
Heavy Industries 

Notifying the amendment# 
to the normal selling prices. 

191 

S.O. 1276, dated 28th April, 

1962. 

Cabinet Secretariat 

Amendment in the Government 
of India (Allocation of Busi- 
ness) Rules, 1961. 

192 

S.O. 1277, dated ist May, 1962. 

Election Commis- 
sion, India 

Corrigendum in S.O. No. 97J, 
in the Gazette of India Extra- 
ordinary, Part II Section 3(ii), 
dated the 2nd April, 1962. 

193 

S.O. 1278, dated 2nd May, 1962 

Ditto. 

Resignation of Shrl M, K. 
Krishnappa elected to that 
House from the Tumkur 
Parliamentary Constituency in 
the State of Mysore. 


S.O. 1279, dated 2nd May, 1962 

Ditto. 

Appointment of dates with 
respect to the byc-elccton to be 
held in the Tumkur Parlia- 
mentary Constituency. 


S.O. 1280, dated 2nd May, 1962. 

Ditto. 

Fixation of hours of polling for 
the election. 

194 

S.O. 1366, ESS. COMM/Iron 
and Steel AM(6l), dated 3rd 
May, 1962. 

Ministry of Steel & 
Heavy' Industries 

Notifying the revised maximum 
normal selling prices of wire ant! 
wire products. 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above wffl be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days erf the date of Issue of 
these Gazettes. 


PART II — Section 3 — Sub-section (ii) 

Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern- 
ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administration of Union Territories), 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 

New Delhi, the 2nd May 1902 

S.O. 1373 .— In pursuance of sub-rule ( 5 ) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1061 , the Election Commission hereby notifies the name of the person shown 
in column 1 of the Schedule below who having been a contesting cahffidate for 
election to the House of the People from the constituency specified in the cor- 
responding entry in column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, in accord- 
ance with the decision given today by the" Election Commission under sub-rule ( 4 ) 
of the said rule, fatted to lodge any account of his election expenses and will 
accordingly become subject to the disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951 , on ffte expiration otf two months from 
the date of the said decision. 





Sec. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1587 


Schedule 

Name of contesting candidate 

Name of constituency 

1 

2 

Shri Bhagirath, Village Gokula, 

C/o Shri Banarasi Lai, Cloth 


Merchant, Shamerganj, 

P.O. Ramsanehlghat, 

Barabanki. 

Ramsanehighat 


[No. UP-HP/29/62(12)/36633.] 
New Delhi, the 3rd May 1962 

S.O. 1374. — In pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 86 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes 
a copy of the Election Petition No. 42' of 1962, presented to the Commission on the 
7th April. 1962, under section 81 of the said Act, by Shrl Partap Singh Daulta, son 
of Shri Man Singh, village Chimni, Tahsil Jhajjab, District Jlohxak, calling In ques- 
tion the election to the House of the People from the Jhajjar constituency of that 
House of Shrl Jagdev Singh son of Shri Prit Singh, village Barhana, Tahsil Jhajjar, 
District Rohtak. 


BEFORE THE ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA, NEW DELHI. 


Sd./- Pratap Singh Daulta, 


Presented to me by Shri Pratap Singh Daulta whose 
signature has been obtained in the margin and attes- 
ted as having been signed before me this the seventh 
day of April, One Thousand Nine Hundred and Sixty- 
two. 


Signature attested. 

Sd./- K. K. Sethi, 7-4-62 Sd./- K. K. Sethi, 7-4-62. 

Under Secretary, . Under Secretary 

Election Commission, India. Election Commission, India. 

Election Petition No. 42 of 1962 

IN THE MATTER OF THE REPRESENTATION OF THE PEOPLE ACT, 1961 

AND 

IN THE MATTER OF ELECTION TO THE HOUSE OF THE PEOPLE FROM 
JHAJJAR CONSTITUENCY. 

Partap Singh Daulta, son of Shri Man Singh, resident of village Chimni, TehslI 
Jhajjar, District Rohtak.— Petitioner. 

Versus 

1 Jagdev Singh, son of Shri Prit Singh, resident of village Barhana, Tehsil 
Jhajjar, District Rohtak— Respondent No. 1. 

2. Ram Pat, son of Shri Lekh Ram Chamar, resident of village Ismaila, District 
Rohtak . — Respondent No. 2. 

3 V N. Kaushik son of Shri G. R, Kaushik, resident of 118, Than Singh Nagar, 
New Delhi-5 — Respondent No. 3. 

4. Jagan Nath, son of Shrl Tehla Ram, resident of Delhi Gate, Rewarl, District 
Gurgaon . — Respondent No. 4, 

PETITION under Section 81 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951. 


Respectfully Showeth : — 

1 That the Notification No. S.O. 231, dated 20th January 1962 the President of 
India called upon all Parliamentary Constituencies in the State of Punjab to elect 
members in accordance with the provisions of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951 and of the rules and orders made thereunder. 



J588 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, I962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 [Pakt II 


2. That by Notification No. S.O. 233, dated January 20, 1962, the Election Com- 
mission appointed, with respect to each of the above said elections— 

(i) the 27th January 1962, as the last date of making nomination: 

AND 

(ii) the 24th February 1962, as the date on which a poll shall, if necessary be 

taken. 

3. That the petitioner and the respondents were, along with four other persons, 
duly nominated as candidate for election to the "House of the People from the 
Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency. 

4. That the result of the election to the House of the People from the Jhajjar 
Parliamentary Constituency was declared by the Returning Officer on the 27th 
February, 1962, and the petitioner and the respondents got the following number of 


votes respectively: — 

Petitioner, . . 111006 

Respondent No. 1 ... 118667' 

Respondent No. 2 . . 20665 

Respondent No. 3 ... 6929 

Respondent No. 4 . . 20433 


The respondent No. 1 was thus declared elected to the House of the People from 
the Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency, having secured the largest number of votes. 

6. That there is a faction of Arya Samaj Leaders in the Hindi speaking area of 
Punjab comprising the following persons: — 

(i) Jagdev Singh, Respondent No. 1, Vice President, Arya Prati Nidhi Sabha, 

Punjab. 

(ii) Pandit Budh Dev, President, Arya Prati Nidhi Sabha, Punjab. 

(iii) Professor Sher Singh, Member, Antring Sabha Arya Prati Nidhi Sabha, 

Punjab. 

(iv) Mahashe Bharat Singh, Assistant Secretary, Arya Prati Nidhi Sabha, 

Punjab. 

(v) Acharya Bhagwan Dev, Member, Antring Sabha Arya Prati Nidhi Sabha, 

Punjab. 

(vi) Pyare Lai, Bhajnik, Secretary Gurukul, Jhajjar. 

(vii) Badlu Ram, Ex-M.LA., Political Lieutenant of Professor Sher Singh. 

4. That the above mentioned persons, were amongst the chief organisers of the 
illegal Hindi agitation in the year 1957. The real object of this agitation was to 
promote feelings of enmity and hatred between the Sikhs and Hindus of Punjab 
on the ground of religion and language, and afterwards to exploit these feelings for 
the promotion of their prospects in the general election to be held in 1962, That 
subsequently they actually exploited these feelings for the promotion of the elec- 
tion prospects of respondent No. 1. 

7. That the above named persons had also organised a Vljay Divas (Victory 
Day) on the 1st January 1958 in Chhotu Ram Park, Rohtak just after the termina- 
tion of the Hindi agitation, and on and from that day the respondent No. 1 began to 
hold himself out as a prospective candidate for the election to the House of the 
People from the Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency. Acharya Bhagwan Dev while 
introducing respondent No. 1 to the audience held him out as prospective candidate 
for Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency to oppose the petitioner. The respondent 
No. 1 in his speech declared that he could defeat the petitioner with the help of the 
Arya Hindi Satagrahls if they work hard for three years to come, 

8. That the respondent No. 1 and his agents, mentioned in Para 5 above con- 
tinued to hold small and big meetings in the Jhajjar Parliamentary and other 
Punjab Assembly constituencies of the Hindi area of Punjab and in those meetings 
they systematically appealed to the electorate to vote for the respondent No. 1 and 
their other candidate on the ground of their religion and language. They also 
systematically used the religious symbol namely the “OM DHAWAJ in all these 
meetings. 




Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 ^89 


In these meetings, the respondent No. 1 and his agents also made a systematic 
appeal to the electorate to refrain from voting for the petitioner, who was a sitting 
member of the House of the People from the .Thajjar Parliamentary Constituency, 
on the grounds of his being an enemy of the Arya Samaj and Hindi language. One 
of these meetings was held in village Bahu Akbarpur District Rohtak on 4th Feb- 
ruary 1938. This meeting was organised and attended by the respondent No. 1 and 
his agents, supporters mentioned In paragraph 5. In this meeting respondent No. 1 
and his supporters exhorted the audience to punish the petitioner along with Ch. 
Ranblr Singh then M.P, now a Minister of the Punjab State and Ch. Ram Singh 
IPS then DIG, Ambala Range and got all the three ex-communicated from reli- 
gious and social Biradri of Haryana on the ground that petitioner along with Ch. 
Ranblr Singh and Ch. Ram Singh I.P.S. were enemies of Arya Samaj as they 
opposed Hindi agitation. 

Full particulars of the above said village Bahu Akbarpur meeting are given In 
Schedule “A" attached to this petition. 

9. That on 30th April 1981 the persons mentioned In para 5 above organised a 
political convention in Daya Nand Math Rohtak, for the purpose of announcing 
openly their Intention to participate in the coming general election of 1962. The 
formation of Haryana Lok Samiti was announced in this convention. The name 
“Haryana Lok Samiti” was meant to be a camouflage for the faction of the Arya 
Samaj organisation dominated by the persons named above. The propaganda and 
appeal disseminated from the platform of the so called Haryana Loir Samiti con- 
tinued to be In the name of Arya Samaj (A religious organisation) and its flag the 
"OM DHWAJ”. Full particulars of this meeting are given in Schedule “A". 


10. That the respondent No. 1 and his agents inaugurated their regular elec- 
tion campaign m a big way, on the 2nd and 3rd December, 1961, at village Bohar 
by organising the fourth session of the Haryana Arya Maha Samelan. The 
leaflet calling this convention is attached herewith as Annexure “B”*. 

11. That In their speeches made in the various sittings of this convention, the 
respondent No. 1 and his agents made a systematic appeal to the audience to 
vote for the respondent No. 1 and refrain from voting for the petitioner on the 
ground of religion and language, promoted feelings of enmity and hatred between 
the Sikhs and Hindus of Punjab, and also brought undue influence to bear on 
the electorate by inducing them to believe that any body not voting for the 
respondent No. 1 and voting for the petitioner will become an object of divine 
displeasure and spiritual censure. A summary of the speeches made by the 
respondent No, 1 and his agents is given in Schedule “C” attached to this petition. 

12. That the respondent No. 1 and his agents mentioned in para 5 above, held 
Public Meetings in furtherance of the election prospects of the respondent No. 1 
»t the following places in the Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency and in Rohtak 
Town on dates given against them in Column 2: — 


Place of Meeting 


Date 


1, Beri 




.. 10-12-61 

2. Barhana 




. . 19-12-61 

3. Dighal 




7-1-62 

4. Akheri Madanpur 




10-1-62 

5. Sampla 




12-1-62 

6. Ladpur 




16-1-62 

7, Majra Dubaldhan 




19-1-62 

8. Pakasma 




28-1-62 

9. Asaudha 




7-2-62 

10. Jhmjar 

11. Badli 




11-2-62 . 
12-2-62 

12. Dulhera 




15-2-62 

13. Sisana 




16-2-62 

14, Bahadurgarh . . 




18-2-62 

15. Rohtak 




4-2-ft? 


♦Not printed. 




1593 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1834 [Fart II 


In these meetings, the respondent No. 1 and his agents made a systematic appeal 
to the electorate to vote for the respondent No. 1 and refrain from voting for 
the petitioner on the ground of his religion and language, promoted feelings 
of enmity and hatred between the Sikhs and Hindus of Punjab, depicting 
petitioner as an agent of £ikhs, brought undue influence to bear on the elec- 
torate by inducing them to believe that any body not voting for the respondent 
No. 1 and voting for the petitioner will become an object of divine displeasure 
and spiritual censure. A summary of the speeches made by the respondent 

No. 1 and his agents at the various meetings are given in Schedule “D” 

attached to this petition. That these meetings were arranged by various Ved 

Parchar Mandals. One of the leaflets indicating this practice is Schedule “D”. 

~ i 

13. That on and from 1st January, 1958, the day on which the respondent 
No. 1 with the election held on 24th February, 1962, in prospect, held himself 
out as a prospective candidate the respondent No. 1 and his agents used and 
-made appeals to the religious symbol namely OM DHWAJ (the flag of the 
Arya Samaj bearing the word OM on it), The full particulars of this corrupt 
practice are given ra Schedule “E” attached to this petition. 

14. That respondent No. 1 and his agents realising that their propaganda 
on religion and language could influence only the peasantry which was under 
Arya Samaj influence, he and his agents set up on a plan to get non-agricultur- 
ist votes spoiled by inducing with the help of bribery three non-agriculturist 
candidates to contest the election. Non-agriculturist as a whole are a strong 
base of Congress in Hindi speaking area of punjab. 

(a) On the eve of election Ram Pat respondent No. 2 was paid Rs. 2,000 

as bribery by respondent No. 1 in Daya Nand Math Rohtak on 
10th December, 1961 and promised three thousand more if he 
was to spoil near about 20,000 Harijan votes. 

(b) Similarly V. N. Kaushik respondent No. 3 was paid by respondent 

No. 1 Rs. 5,000 in Daya Nand Math Rohtak on 6th December, 1961 
and promised two thousand more If he could spoil near about 
10,000 votes of the Backward Communities. 

(c) The respondent No. 4 Jagan Nath was paid Rs. 6,000 in Daya Nand 

Math Rohtak by respondent No. 1 on 18th December, 1961, In 
order to induce him to contest and to spoil refugee votes. 

That in this way the respondent No, 1 committed corrupt practice which 
resulted into a loss of 48027 votes to the petitioner. Votes secured by res- 
pondents No, 2, 3 and 4 were Congress votes in Assembly Constituencies of 
Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency. The total number of votes secured by 
Congress in seven Assembly Constituencies is 158316 whereas secured in 
Parliament is 111006. 

Consolidated result of seven Assembly Constituencies comprising Jhajjar 
Parliamentary Constituency (House of the People) is Schedule “F”*. 

15. That respondent No. 2 Mr, Ram Pat arranged to secure a Republican 
Party ticket which was founded by Doctor Ambedkar a Harijan leader. He 
demanded votes from Harijan Chamars appealing them to vote for their own 
caste man i.e. Ram Pat respondent No. 2. Whatever votes he secured was the 
result of the corrupt practice of appealing by the candidate to vote for him on 
the ground of his caste, 

16. Respondent No. 3 made pure caste appeal by declaring himself a candi- 
date of Backward Castes. Backward Communities have got some rights by 
their birth in services and other field of social development. In election mat- 
ters however, law forbids candidates to appeal to vote for him on the ground 
of his caste or religion. 

17. (a) That Mr. Jagan Nath respondent No, 4 made approaches in the name 
of his “Punjabi Biradri’* i.e. appeal based upon caste considerations. 

(b) That he exploited religious feelings of the voters of Jhajjar Parliamen- 
tary Constituency in general and for women folk in particular, He declared 
that Ram Baba a saint of Rcwari want to go in Parliament through him. 
Symbols of "RAM RAM’’ made of brass and other metals covered his and ms 
followers dress. They sang religious songs with a drummer through streets 
exhorting people to vote for Ram Baba for establishment of Dharam Raj in 
India. 


♦Not printed, 



Sec. 8(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1591 


18. That respondent No. 1 exploited caste feelings of Dhanak caste by get- 
ting an appeal issued by one Attar Singh Dhanak resident of Akheri Madan- 

£ ur, who was a candidate with the same symbol on Arya Samaj i.e. Haryana 
ok Samiti candidate, Similarly respondent No. 1 exploited caste feelings of 
Balmikis by getting an appeal issued to this caste by one Bam Dhari Balmlki 
who was contesting Assembly seat from Meham Reserved Constituency. The 
leaflets are Annexures "C" and “D”*. 

19. That in the Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency there are about 6592 
voters, who are members of the Armed Forces of the Union who are entitled 
to vote by postal ballot within the meaning of Section 60 of the Representation 
of the People Act, 1951. Under Rule 23 of the Conduct of Elections Rule 1961, 
postal ballots were to be sent to all these electors. The Returning Officer 
delayed the despatch of the postal papers to these electors with the effect that 
out of seven thousand ballot papers sent, only 2277 ballot papers were received 
back In time which included Civil Service Personnel while thousands were 
received after the 24th February, 1962 and were not counted. Out of the 1,869 
valid ballots received back in time and counted, 989 ballots namely 52 ,9 per 
cent were in favour of the petitioner while the 47 T per cent were in favour of 
all the remaining eight candidates. 

Delay in despatch of postal ballot papers, means non-compliance with the 
provisions of Section 60 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and of 
Rule 23 of the Conduct of the Election Rules, 1961. The result of the election, 
in so far as it concerns the respondent No. 1 and the petitioner, has been 
materially affected by the non-compliance of the provisions of Section 60 and 
Rule 23 by the Returning Officer of the Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency. 

20. That the election to the House of the People from Jhajjar Parliamentary 
Constituency is void on the following grounds: — 

(a) Corrupt practices as detailed in the various paragraphs and schedules 
of this petition have been committed by tne respondent No. 1 and 
by other persons with the consent of the respondent No. 1; 

(b) the result of the election in so far as it concerns the respondent 
No. 1 has been materially affected by — 

(1) Corrupt practices committed in the interest of the respondent 
No. 1 by the agents of the respondent No. 1, and 

(ii) corrupt practices committed by respondents No. 2, 3 and 4 in the 
interest of respondent No. 1, 

(iii) non-compliance with the provisions of Section 60 of the Repre- 
sentation of the People Act 1951, and Rule 23 of the Conduct of 
Election Rules, 1961, by the Returning Officer of the Constituency. 

21. That two thousand rupees have been deposited in the Government 
Treasury at Rohtak in favour of the Election Commission as security for the 
costs of this petition. A Treasury Receipt for the same is attached herewith as 
Annexure "I”*. 

It is, therefore, respectfully prayed that an Election Tribunal he constituted 
to try this petition, and after a trial the election of the respondent No. 1 to the 
House of the People from the Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency, be declared 
void, and all the respondents he disqualified from standing as a candidate in 
any future election. 

Dated: 6-4-62, Pratap Singh Daijlta, 

Place : Chandigarh. Petitioner. 

Verification. — I, Pratap Singh Daulta, candidate for the election to the 
House of the People from the Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency, do hereby 
solemnly verify that the statements of fact made in paragraphs 1 to 11 and from 
13 to 18 and 21 above are true to my knowledge, the statements of fact made 
in paragraph 12 are true to my belief based on reports of meetings and speeches 
made to me by Satblr Singh Rana B.A, son of Ch. Abhe Ram resident of 
Kundal, the statements of fact made in paragraph 19 are true to my knowledge 
derived fiom an examination of the relevant official records, and the submissions 
of law have been made as advised. 

Dated: 6-4-62, Pratap Singh Daulta, 

Place : Chandigarh. Petitioner. 


'Not printed. 



1592 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 [Part 11 


Schedule “A” 

Particulars about Baku Akbarpur Meeting 

This meeting was held on 4th February, l ^58 in village Bahu Akbarpur 
District Rohtak. In order to distinguish it from an ordinary political meeting 
it was advertised as “SARV KHAP PANCHAYAT” which literary means a social 
gathering of all the “Gots" residing in Hindi speaking area of the Punjab. This 
was to seek sanction for ex-communicating (i) D.I.G. Ram Singh (ii) petitioner 
and (iii) Ch. Ranbir Singh then M.P. 

Out of many who spoke notable were respondent No. 1, all Arya Samaji 
leaders mentioned in para 5. Ch. Dharam Singh Rathee then M.L.A., Ch. Nanhu. 
Ram then M.L.A. addressed the meeting. Ail made highly provocative speech 
against the petitioner. 

The Pandal as usual was covered with “OM Flag” and Arya Samaj religious- 
teachings printed on clothes. All persons who went in jail in Hindi Andolan 
of 1957 were special invitees. 

Relevant portion of the speech delivered by respondent No. 1 is given below: — 

Speech was in Hindi, English translation is given below: — 

“Arya Sajjano this was the village where Kairon Shahi helped by Daulta, 
M.P., and Ranbir Singh, M.P., committed henous crime against villagers. 
You remember so many persons were beaten, women folk insulted- 
The excuse was that Hindi Premi were likely to attack Sikh constables 
escorting some leaders outside the district. If to rescue from police custody 
was an offence then it was not committed by all villagers. Any way we are 
to punish Kairon’s agents. The mover of the resolution for ex-communicating 
has explained in detail what Ram Singh (I.P.S,), Daulta and Ranbir Singh were 
doing in Hindi agitation. Daulta addressed more than two hundred meetings 
opposing Hindi agitation. It was only the last year that we elected him M.P. 
from my Constituency. I did not contest on Congress ticket simply b -cause 
Daulta was my relative. Professor Sher Singh had assured me the Congress 
ticket but I refused. Now I have been ordered by your leaders to contest him 
in 1902 but that is far of date. This man along with his friends deserve immedi- 
ate punishment and I support the resolution to ex-communicate all the three. 

The resolution was passed by raising hands and audience were subject to 
an oath that Ranbir Singh and Daulta will not be allowed to enter into 
Parliament again. The oath was administered by Pandit Budh Dev who was 
described by respondent No. 1 as Guru of Haryana people,” 

Verification. — I, Pratap Singh Daulta, candidate for the election to the House 
of the People from the Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency, do hereby solemnly 
verify that the statements of fact made in all paragraphs in Schedule "A” are 
true to my knowledge. 

Dated: 6-4-62, Pratap Singh Daulta, 

Place : Chandigarh. Petitioner. 


Schedule “A”' 

Particulars of the Schedule "A" 

Formation of Haryana Lok Samiti 

On the eve of election held in 1967 Professor Sher Singh and his associates 
mentioned in para 5 were Chief supporters of Congress and Sardar Partap Singh 
Kairon. Reason was that Prof. Sher Singh figured in Punjab Cabinet as Deputy 
Chief Minister Punjab. Sardar Kairon could not include Prof. Sher Singh in 
his cabinet, after elections. At the time of allotment of the tickets Congress 
High Command made it clear in writing to Sardar Kairon that Prof. Sher Singh: 
was allowed to contest with the condition that he would not be included in 
cabinet again and he was not included. In order to impress on Congress High 
Command that only Prof. Sher Singh can maintain peace in Haryana, Hindi 
agitation w.as started by the leaders mentioned in para 5. The pressure sought 
to be exercised on High Command produced opposite results and Prof Sher 
Singh was expelled from Congress Party. Since then respondent No. 1 along 
with others mentioned in para 6 used Arya Samaj platform' for their political 
purposes and for brightening election prospects of lffCT. 



Sac. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, I962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1593 


On approach of election some comuflage was sought to cover the religious 
body namely Arya Samaj and was found through a convention held on 30th 
April, 1961, presided over by Prot. Sher Smgh m Daya Nand Math Rohtak. 

Mahashe Bharat Singh acted as stage Secretary, Among the speakers were 
all the leaders mentioned in para 6. At the time of this convention some 
undei standing was arrived with communists also. Three communist workers 
from Rohtak attended this convention. They were Dharam Singh Sampalwal,. 
Raghbir Singh Jakhar and Shiv Narain Vatts. Pandit Siri Ram Ex. M.L.A. was 
also oni of the invitees, he, however did not arrive at any working arrange- 
ments with arrangements with Arya Samajis. As usual “Om Flags” were flying, 
in this convention also attended by all Hindi Satyagrahis who went jail in 1957 
Hindi agitation. In this convention Prof. Sher Singh had made it clear that 
Sh. Ranbir Singh will be opposed by Badlu Ram Ex-M.L.A,, the petitioner will 
be opposed, by the respondent No. 1 and Prof, himself will contest from his. 
old Constituency. 

Verification. — I, Partap Singh Daulata, candidate for the election to the 
House of the People from Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency, do hereby 
solemnly verify that statements of facts made in all paragraphs m Schedule “A” 
are true to my knowledge. — ~ 

Dated: 6-4 62, Partap Sinoh Daulata, 

Place : Chandigarh. Petitioner, 


Schedule “C" 


Particulars of the Bohar meeting held on 2nd and 3rd December, 1961. 


It was arranged by Ved Parchar Mandal Pakasma Circle. The two days 
session started with the Yaga Havan a religious ceremony. After mid-day meals 
conference started, with Hindi Samelan, Swami Santosh Anand presided it. 
The respondent No. 1 and his supporters mentioned in para 5 all addressed the 
meeting. Acharya Bhagwan Dev narrated history of Hindi agitation, criticised. 
the Government for compulsory Punjabi Education in Haryana. He severly 
criticised the petitioner and Ch. Ranbir Singh then M.P. In the last he asked, 
audience to vote for Haryana Samiti people who fought Hindi agitation and 
will fight against Punjabi in future, 

Prof. Sher Singh criticised anti-Hindi attitude of Punjab Government, com- 
pulsion of teaching of Punjabi and necessity of having Metric standard of 
Punjabi for Haryana in respect of service recruitment. He appealed the audi- 
ence to vote for those candidates only who can fight against Punjabi for Hindi. 
Only the candidates' of Haryana Lok Samiti can do so. 

Respondent No. 1 made a brief speech said that Hindi is not only question of 
language but it was part and partial of their Dharma. If you want to protect 
your Dharm and language you should vote for Haryana Lok Samiti. He told 
the audience that Haryana Lok Samiti is according to dictates of “Satyarath 
Farkash” Samulas 6. Therefore, no question of other flag arises. Arya Samaj 
flag is to be flag of Haryana Lok Samiti. "We are all Sanyasis and Pan- 
prasthis and only Tyagis can rule India. With this purpose we are going to 
Legislatures. We want to fly our religious flag not only in Chandigarh Secreta- 
riat, not only on Parliament building but whole over the World.” In the last 
respondent No. 1 uttered a couplet which in Hindi reads like this: “Uthae 
Dhwaja Om Ki” ham phirenge: “Usi Ke lie ham Jiyenge marenge”. Its render- 
ing in English is, “Let us resolve to take Om Flag for twenty four hours with 
us. We will live for It, we will die for it.” Others who made similar speeches 
besides the persons mentioned in para 5 were Raghbir Singh Siwana and Ram 
Mehar Pleader Rohtak. 


Three resolutions were adopted, According to the first resolution Arya 
Samaj fought for Hindi, will fight for Hindi therefore people should vote for 
Arya Samaj Leaders and for nonelse. According to the second resolution 
Government was urged to abolish Punjabi from Haryana, According to the 
third resolution the Samelan supported the language policy of the Arya Samelan 
held in Delhi on 21st May, 1901, After these speeches and resolutions Pandit 
Budh Dev distributed nearly five thousand Manpatras among those who went to 
jail in 1957 in Hindi agitation. 


On 3rd December, 1961, next day before lunch various religious ceremonies 
were performed and after lunch political session started. It was presided over 
by Prof. Sher Singh, respondent No, 1, Prof. Ram Singh, president of Hindu 



2594 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 [Part II 


Maha Sabha, Raghbir Singh Siwana made speeches. The main burden of their 
speecncs was that next election was a “Dharma Yudh”, a battle with Sikhs and 
that Haryana Lok Samiti will fight the agents of the Sikhs petitioner and Ch. 
Ranbir Singh, M.P. and other Congress men were depicted as agents of Sikhs. 

Three resolutions were adopted, one for making a representation to Das 
Commission another for amendment in Hindu Code Bill and the third was in 
respect of Haryana people services of Punjab State. 

The session ended with Shri Budh Dev’s Ashirvad. Shri Budh Dev gave his 
Ashirvad after administering the oath from the audience for voting for Haryana 
Lok Samiti, 

He warned the people that he was “Brahm” and that any body violating the 
pledge given to “Brahm” will go. 

Verification. — I, Partap Singh Daulata, candidate for the election to the 
House of the People from the Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency, do hereby 
solemnly verify that the statements of fact contained in the various paragraphs 
of Schedule “C” are true to my knowledge. 

Dated: 6-4-62, Partap Singh Daulata, 

Place: Chandigarh. Petitioner. 


Schedule "D” 


Summary of the Particulars of the meeting held on 10-12-61 in village Bert, 
Jhajjar Assembly Constituency in Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency. 

The. meeting was held under president of Shri Sir! Chand president of Beri. 
The meeting was starred with Piare Lai Bhajan “P IARA JHAIWA. OM KA’’ and 
after making a brief speech showing respondent No. 1 contribution to Hindi Ando 
fan of 1967 He gave another Song “ HARYANA LOOTLIYA DHADI WALON 
NE” Sh Badlu Ram Ex. M.L.A. said that Prof. Sher Singh who is candidate from 
Jhajjar 'Constituency is a lion of Haryana, He only can liberate Haryana from 
Sikhi. Sidhanti (Respondent No. 1) and Sher Smgh were m Jail when Agitation 
was going on where were Pt. Bhagwat Dayal and Daulata. 

Nanhu Ram M.L.A. narrated his favourite story of the boat which was drowned 
because one eyed man was in the boat and the boat was compared with Congress. 
He said that Congressmen were after permits and Kotas. Lok Sanuti Walas were 
flghtig for Hindi and for Haryana. 

Jaedev Singh Sidhanti (Respondent No. 1) said "Daulata says that I am 
illiterate This is the lio I can read all the Vedas and Shasteras but I am 
Pnninhi's teaching In Haryana. Daulata says in olden days Sanyasis 
w P ill go In Tapovan but in Kalyug they are inning aft ter Officers in Parliament 
nnd Assemblies, I am going to Parliament for Dharam, for this Flag, Daulata 
is Nastik and takes meat. That his anti Hindi you know all . t0 

mtiTintnl nrmosed Hindi Aandolan in 1957 whereas I (respondent No. 1) went to 
( DaU l ata ^ 0P d P° S He faid hc was going to Parliament for the protection of 


Jail for Hinc,- . — , 

Brahmins, Cows and ladies. 

a i. nuAmror Dev “War is between Dharam and Adharam between Hindi 
for Hindi, i° r „^ a r ry ^ a ’ h to c r av e facts and figures showing discrimination with 

exp ell Punjabi from Haryana. 

t av. w Pt p„dh Dev was asked to give Ashirvad to audience. He agreed 
In the last Pt. Eucin jj rrvndition was that audience should 

to give Ashirvad with one : conation , The President asked 
take a pledge to vote for Haryana Lok^ Samiti, jam command wiU be 

respected. 10 There upon Pandit Ji f^lr™d ludfence^went badf^to^ their 

pledge’ they wni“o CSW (Hefl) » *ey h.ve pledged before representative 
of the “Brahman”. 

In this meeting more than seven thousand were given to Prof Sher Smgh or 
hia election complign and the meeting ended. 



Sec. J(il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1595 


2. Summary of the particulars of the meetings held on 19-12-61 in village Bahrana, 
Bahadurgarh Assembly Constituency in Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency. 

The meeting was presided over by Lala Bakhtnwar Lai, The meeting started 
with Piare Lai’s Bhajan “P1ARA JHANDA OM KA" and after making a brief 
speech showing respondent No. 1 contribution to Hindi Andolan of 1957. He 
.gave another Song “ Haryana Loot Liya Dhadi Walon Ne”. 

Raghbir Singh Counseller Delhi, said that Sher Singh can rescue Haryana 
from Sikhs. 

The respondent No. 1 Jagdev Singh Sidhanti said that it was his own village 
and he need not to say much, He further said that petitioner does not believe in 
god, takes his meals at ASHOKA HOTEL where Cow’s flesh is served. He 
thanked the villagers for giving him money. 

Acharya Bhagwan Dev narrated the history of Hindi Agitation in 1C57 speak- 
ing mostly on the contribution of respondent No. 1 for the success of that agita- 
tion and that of Petitioner’s opposition to that Andolan. He asked persons to 
vote for Sidhanti (Respondent No, 1) who will fight for Hindi. 

Prof. Sher Singh gave facts and figures about services, criticised Govt, for 
compulsory education Gurmukhi in Haryana. He assured removal of compulsion 
if Haryana Lok Samiti wins in the Election. 


3 Summary of the particulars of the meetinq held on 7-1-1962 in Dighal, Bahadur- 
garh Assembly Constituency in Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency. 

Piare Lai started meeting with his favourite song : — "OM KA PIARA 
JHANDA” and after making a short speech about the greatness of Om Flag he 
said Hardwari Lai (Congress candidate Assembly) and the petitioner (Partap 
Singh Daulata) both are Sikh agents and are bad character persons because they 
drink and eat meat, 

Shri Raghbir Singh Siwana, Sh. Kanwal Singh made speeches but nothing 
objectionable. 

Acharya Bhagwan Dev narrated the history of Hindi Andolan. Sh. Jagdev 
Singh contribution in that Struggle and Petitioners opposition to Hindi Andolan 
and asked audience to vote for Capt. Kanwal Singh in Assembly Constituency 
and Shri Jagdev Singh in Parliamentary Constituency. Shri Sher Singh gave 
facts and figures showing discrimination to Haryana and criticising Govt, for the 
compulsory teaching of Gurmukhi in Haryana. Some money was given to Sh. 
Jagdev Singh Sidhanti (respondent No. 1) and the meeting ended. 


4 Summary of the particulars of the meeting held on 10-1-1962 at Akheri Madan 

Pur in Salhwas Constituency. 


The meeting was started with Piare Lai’s Bhajan in praise of "Om Flag 
JHANDA PIARA OM KA" and said that this flag should be hoisted all over the 
world He said that Prof. Sher Singh Acharya Bhagwan Dev and Jagdev Singh 
(Respondent No. 1) always worked under this Flag. This flag was m their hands 
when they fought in Hyderabad when they fought for the protection of Hindi in 
1957 and this the Flag which is in our hand when we are going to battle for 
Haryana liberation through ballot papers and then he gave his favourite song 
"HARYANA LOOT LIYA DHADI WALON NE". 


He was followed by Raghbir Singh Sewag so called Counseller of Delhi He 
criticised cogress on its failure of economic fields and accused Punjab Govt, for 
discrimination with Haryana Acharya Bhagwan Dev said congress has allotted 
its tickets from your assembly constituency, Chand Ram Chamar has given ticket. 
Every where Chamars got congress tickets, Dhanaks and Balmikies were given to 
tickets by Congress. This was great injustice Arya Ssma] always come to help 
the under dog We have picked on Attar Dhanafc of your village as our candi- 
date. All Jats should vote for this boy, In Parliament sitting M.P who belongs 
to village Chimni is enemy of Hindi you know that Shri Jagdev Smgh (respondent 
No 1) fs maCg preparation for fighting election since >indi Agitation days. 
This is our sure scat. You have to take care of Attar Singh. 

Jagdev Singh Sidhanti (respondent No. 1) I have always worked ^ under Om 
Flag as Mahashe Piare Lai told you. I worked for some time in Jullundur Divi- 
sion for Arya Samaj. I saw where that Sikhs want to rule el ?hre -Puiijah- 
is a pity that this country belongs to Hindus and Aryas but others want to rule 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1902/VAISAKI1A 22, 1884 [Pari t 


1596 


us. When there is no Sikh population in Haryana why Punjabi is taught here. 
I am contesting Daulata who is Nastik; takes cow flesh, who opposed Hindi 
Andolan and wants Gurmukhi to continue in Haryana Schools. He is a trusted- 
lieutenant of Sardar Partap Singh Kairon. Daulata and his leader Nehru both are 
anti Arya Samaj and anti God, I think that Om Flag is a great spiritual power 
so, we hold it. Ho asked audience to vote for Assembly constituency and for 
Parliament to Attar Singh and himself respectively. 

Ch. Nanhu Ram then M.L.A. told the audience that the present congress was 
not of Gandhi and was under bad influence. He asked Dhanaks and Balmikies 
to be up and fight Chamars for their liberation. 

Sh. Sher Singh M.L.A, gave facts and figures to show that Haryana was being 
ignored by Sikh Chief Minister. He criticised Govt, for teaching Gurmukhi in- 
Haryana. Some money was paid to Attar Singh. 

5 Summary of the Particulars of the meeting held in SAMPLA on 12-1-1902. 

Samp la Assembly Constituency in Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency. 


The meeting was started by Piare Lai’s Bhajan “JHANDA PIARA OM KA” 
and after Bhajan said; "there are two camps in election battle arrad against each, 
other One is headed by Sardar of Kairon and another headed by Dharam Putar 
Prof Sher Singh. This is battle of Maha Bharat. Partap Singh Kairon and 
Partap Singh Daulata are on the side of “Adharm”. Sidhanti (Jagdev Singh) 
and Ch Ram Sarup are on the side of Dharam. Siri Ram Sharma is also a stoog 
of Pratap Singh Kairon. After Piare Lai Sh. Vishva Mittar gave a song "Utho 
Jaao Hyya Sehera” and asked the auldence to vote for sidhanti (Jagdev Singh, 
respondent No. 1). He sRid Pcirtup ICahr (blind of one eye) is trsitor of Hindi 
and Arya Smaj. He will sell out Haryana to sikhs.” 

Master Nanhu Ram said that congress was spending lacs to get Sher Singh 
defeated in Jhajjar constituency. He said ‘Hero in Parliament contest is between. 
Sidhanti (Jagdev Singh respondent No. 1) and Daulata. Sidhanti (Jagdev Singh) 
knows* *all the four "Vedas’ ' where as Partap Kana is a “Nastik” till yesterday he 
was communist. Now he has turned himself into a Congressman The boat which 
has among its passengers any and any one eyed man is served 
After him Ram Pat Banprasti gave a song AYE DESH DAHOI GANDHI t DPI 
DHAR KE” he was followed Acharya Bhagwan Dev. Said it was not congress 
who made frindi National Language, credit goes to Arya Samaj under whose 
pressure congress accepted Hindi as national language. Who says that Parents 
of Sumer Singh who died in Hindi Andolan were 8 iv en of compensation o 
Rs 10 000 it was only 3,000. One congressman has written a booklet and has 
obiect-d to the display of Om Flag in our meeting and on our Motors. This is 
our right to do so we live for this Flag and weare prepared to die for this. In 
this booklet it is written that a telegram has been given to Election Commissioner 
on using of our Om Flag as party Flag by Haryana Lok Samiti Election Com- 
missioner cannot stop it. 

Sin ilarlv Pt Siri Ram Sharma who is a candidate from Sampla Constituency 
ha* written in his news papers “Haryana Tilak” Arya Samaj was doing great 
hllm to Haryana by brivFng religion and "Om Flag" n election. We want to 
convert theentire the country in one religion. One kind of living, one kind of 
food and dress. 

Partap Singh Kairon described Sher Singh a girlish Politician of Haryana. 
t /St,™ that our girls are very brave we will tear out every hair from 
Kmro^ beard. Haryana has produced so brave persons who conquered 
“MnvhnW One of our man murdered Governor of Aurengzeb. We will fin s 
SikhfSom Punjab. Tf you vote for Lok Samiti you can liberate Haryana from 

Sikhs. 

ra Sarun said Maru Singh was against Congress now he is in Congress 

Oh Ratp Sarup said ivi * H followed by Ram Dhan created hetred 

andChuras should o^Naya Bans P0 wh e ere 1 S 0 aheed a S6Sier Sinih 

again there is battle between D r ld Gurmukhi HaryaTia Lok Samiti will liberate 

why people of Haryana shouM read Gurmukm. ™^. ho say that Arya S amaj 

louM remaFnoutpXie^nt Adharam Raj 'in India by keeping away Dharam 



Sec. J(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1597 


from Politics, Haryana Lok Samiti has been firmed in accordance with the dic- 
tates of Satyarath Prakash chapter Six. “He, who says that Ram Sarup is not 
an Arya Samaji tells half truth. He supported Arya Samaj in Hindi Andolan so 
he deserves your votes.’* 

Daulata says that I am illiterate. I am graduate from the Punjab University. 
Daulata is Nastik. He is communist at heart. I am going to Parliament for pro- 
tection of Cows, Brahmans and ladies. Daulata is going simply to build another 
Bungalow in Delhi,” Capt. Kanwal Singh candidate on Haryana Lok Samiti ticket 
from Bahadurgarh Constituency told the audience that for the protection of 
Haryana, Congress must be defeated on polls. 

Raghbir Singh who posed himself as counseller of Delhi (in fact he was not) 
criticised congress on its economic and political failures. 

Ch. Sher Singh was the last to speak gave figures to prove that Haryana is 
not getting its proper share in services. He said that Haryana should be saved 
from Punjabi Language and its way is to vote for Haryana Lok Samiti. He denied 
to brave signed Sachar Formula which was responsible for teaching Gurmukhi 
in Haryana. 

6. Summary of the particulars of the meeting held in Ladpur on lff-1-1962 from 
Jhajjar Assembly Constituency of Jhajjar Parliamentary constituency . 

The meeting started with Piare Lai Bhajan “PIARA JHANDA OM KA” and 
after making a brief speech showing the contribution of Arya Samaj is to Hindi 
Andolan in 1957, He gave another song A “HARIYANA LOOT LIYA DHADT 
WALON NE” Pt. Ram Singh of Beri said "Daulata is communist at heart. He 
only wants to grind his own axe. He Is selfish and traitor. Do not vote for him.” 

Raghbir Singh counscller Delhi said that Sher Singh and Sidhanti (Jagdev 
Singh respondent No. 1) only fight for Haryana. So, vote for Haryana Lok 
Samiti candidate. 

Jagdev Singh Sidhanti (Respondent No. 1) said, “I stayed at Jullundur. 
There I saw administration work and campared with that of Haryana division. 
Here in Haryana Govt, is doing nothing for the betterment of the people. I always 
served Arya Samaj and Dm Flag. I fought for Hindi against Gurmukhi and went 
in Jail daulata is Nastik (Does not believe in God) does not believe in Om and 
eats meat. He also says me illiterate but I am graduate of Punjab University. I 
am going to Parliament to serve Brahamans, Cow and Kahya (Virgin Girl).” 

Acharya Bhawgan Dev said, “Battle of Dharam and Adharm has started. 
Gurmukhi forcibly introduced in Haryana. You fought for Hindi language. 
Daulata and other congress walas opposed Hindi Agitation, Defeat Congress and 
vote for Haryana Lok Samiti candidates. Prof. Sher Singh gave facts and figures 
to show that there is discrimination in services In Haryana. Congress allotted 
tickets to all Chamar candidates while ignoring Dhanak and Balmikies. He also 
told audience that he never signed on Sachar Formula." 

Sh. Dharam Pal also made speech and Chander Singh gave a song. After 
meeting ended. 


7 Summary of of the particulars of the meeting held In village Majra ( Dubai - 
dhan ), Jhajjar Assembly Constituency in Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency . 

The meeting was presided over by Lai Ram Niwas resident of village Majra. 


The meeting was. started with Piarc Lai’s Bhajan “JHANDA PIARA OM KA . 
After this Bhajan he said that this was the battle of Dharam and Adharam. On 
one side there were Arya Samaj and Om Flag whereas on the other there were 
Kairon’s beard and his congress walas agents, The Sikhs had totally looted the 
Haryana Afte- this speech he gave a second song: — “Haryana Loot Ke Kha Liya 
Dhadi Walon Ne” Attar Singh Dhanak a candidate of Haryana Lok Samiti from 
Salhawas Constituency said audience that Congress allotted tickets to Chamars 
in all reserve constituenev in Haryana. “So, it is the party of Chamars and there 
is a Chamar Raj.” Congress discriminately ignored all other castes of Harijans 
i.e. Dhanaks and Balmikis. He further told the Dhanak community to vote for 
Prof. Sher Singh and Sidhanti (Jagdev Singh respondent No. 1) as his and their 
barfy was one and the same ie. Haryana Lok Samiti. They i.e. Jagdev Sin go 
respondent No. 1 and Prof. Sher Singh were helping him whole heartedly. If 
Dhanaks of my caste want to seem successful they should help and vote for the 



1598 the gazette of India : may 12, 1962/vaisakha 22 , isai [Part 11 


candidates of Haryana Lok Samiti as they have Om Flags for which this Dharam 
Yug is being fought to keep the Flag high and up.” 

Rani Dhari Balmiki said, “I am a candidate from Meham constituency. Some- 
times ago I was in Congress Party but importance is given to Chamars only in 
this party. All other Harijans are Ignored, ‘‘He further said that he would 
persuade his caste fellows i.e. Balmikies to help and caste their votes In favour 
of the candidates of Haryana Lok Samiti as he, also was candidate for Haryana 
Lok Samiti. 

JSTanhu Ram M.L.A. $ aid, “I was congress President but I resigned congress on 
the ground that all the corruption of Zamindar leaguers entered this party. 
Those person who criticised and condemned the congress now the same person 
have their hold on congress. The boat of Congress will sink as there is one eyed 
man among the passengers in the boat. The Sikhs are looting the Haryana. 
The money is taken through taxes from the people of Haryana and is spent in 
Punjabi region. If you want yoke of Sikhs thin vote for Congress otherwise vote 
for the candidates of Haryana Lok Samati whose beloved Flag is Om Flag.” 

Jagdev Singh Sldhanti (respondent No. 1) I always served Om Flag. I lived 
for time in Jullundur. The whole of the capital got from Haryana is being spent 
in Jullundur division. I fought battle against moat eater in Military. Partap 
Singh Daulata takes meat. In the rule of Congress the Cows are slaughtered. 
Hindi language is in danger and the Punjabi (Gurmukhi) has made compulsory 
in Haryana. Daulata is supporter of Gurmukhi and enemy of Hindi as he (Daulata) 
opposed Hindi Agitation in 1057, I am going to Parliament for protection of 
Brahmans, cows and Kanyas (Virgin Girls). Daulata says me ilieterate. I am 
graduate from Punjab University. In order to serve Haryana I adopted Prof. 
Sher Singh as my leader. 

Prof. Sher Singh. M.L.A. gave facts and figures to show that Haryana is not 
getting its proper share in services, Surely Partap SinRh Kairon would be 
thrown away from the Chief Ministership. He further said, “Give defeat to con- 
gress so that due share of Haryana can be achieved. Those, who want the right 
for Haryana, want to support Haryana Lok Samiti, want prorgess of Hindi and 
want to abolish Gurmukhi from Haryana raise thrir hands and given pledge to 
vote for Haryana Lok Samiti whole heartedly and will maintain the respect of 
Om Flag”. Some money was given to Prof, Sher Singh for his election Campaign. 

In the Ia»t Pt. Budh Dev was asked to give his Ashirvad to audience. He 
agreed to give ashirvad with one condition. The condition was that audience 
should take a pledge to vote for Haryana Lok Samiti candidates. President asked 
audience to raise their hands to assure Pandit J1 that, this command will be res- 
pected. Thereupon Pandit Ji gave ashirvad for the success of Haryana Lok 
Samiti and warned persons stating that in case auidence went back to their 
pledge they will go to Narak (Hell) as they have pledged before representative 
of Brahmin. After this meeting ended. 

8 , Summary of the Particulars of the Meeting held on 18-2-1962, in village 
Pakashma , Simpla Assembly Constituency in Jhajjar Parliamentary 

Constituency. 

The meeting was held under the Presidentship, of Pt, Tale Ram. This meeting 
of Haryana Lok Samiti was convened by Ved Parchar Mandal Pakashma Ch. 
Ram Bhaj Hooda Advocate nephew of Ch. Ram Sarup candidate for Assembly 
Constituency on Haryana Lok Samiti Ticket acted as stage Secretary, 

(I) Sh. Piare Lai Bhajnik started with his usual Bhajan inpraise of “OM 
FLAG”, after this Bhajan he pointed out towards a big Om Flag fixed near the 
stage.” People of Haryana see towards this flag, This is Dharam Flag. There 
Is a battle between Sikhs of Punjabi region and Hindus of Haryana, All rights 
of Haryana people are with the Sikhs. If you vote for this flag, it promises to 
bring your rights.” Then he gave another song. The first line of this Song was 
“HARYANA LOOT LIYA DHADI WALON NE”. 

This was highly provocative and created bitter feelings against Sikhs. He 
further said that Sher Singh, Sidhanti (Jagdev Singh respondent No. 1) and 
other candidates of Haryana Lok Samiti can liberate Haryana from Sikhs. 

Master Nanhu Ram then M.L.A. said that old Congress is dead and those Jamin- 
dar leaguers have joined Congress who used to beat Congress Walas. He asked 
audience to vote for Haryana Lok Samiti. 



1599 


Sic, 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 19G2/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


Acharya Bhagwan Dev said, It was Sampla Constituency which gave largest 
recruitment in Hindi Andolan in 1957. In this Dharam Yudh you are supposed to 
give largest votes to Haryana Lok Samiti. 

Sh, Jagdev Singh Sidhanti went in Jail for Hindi Bhasha whereas Daulata 
opposed Hindi Andolan. "I am accused for giving Ram Sarup ticket of Haryana 
Lok Samiti on the ground that Ch, Ram Sarup is not an Arya Samaji. I did no 
wrong in this matter Ch. Maru Singh is an Arya Samajist who opposed Hindi 
Andolan like Daulata, so man like Daulata and Maru Singh cannot be called Arya 
Samajists as they opposed Hindi Andolan in 1957. Ram Sarup supported it that 
is why we have given him "Om Flag” for contesting Election. Recognisition of 
an Arya Samaji is that he, who holds Om Flag is Arya Samaji and he deserves 
your votes. 

Ch. Ram Sarup said that he was M.L.A. from this Constituency long ago and 
that he served people with Zeal. ‘‘Some body has written a booklet depicting 
me of an enemy of Arya Samaj. I was with Arya Samaj in Hindi Andolan In 
1957, that is why I got Haryana Lok Samiti ticket. Do not read such booklets 
I deserves your votes because I am friendly with Arya Samaj and I am Hindi 
Premi’*. I [ 

Jagdcv Singh respondent No. 1 “I am apposing Pratap Singh Daulata sitting 
M.P. At heart he is communist. He docs not believe in God, he is nastik. He 
takes cow’s flesh when does not get other meat plate in Hotels. I am guardian 
of this “Om Flag”, under this Flag 1 fought battle against meat eaters in Army. 
I am going to Parliament for the protection of Kanya (Virgin Girls) Brahmm 
and Cows. Congress Walas say that Sidhanti knows only how to do a “Hawan”. 
Yes, I will see there that Parliament will start with Yoga Hawan and side by 
side the National Flag, this flag of Dharam be displayed at Parliament building, 
Cheers. If you have any love for Hindi then vote for me and for Ch. Ram 
Sarup. If you love Sikhs and Partap Singh Kairon then vote for their agents 
Partap Singh Daulta and Maru Singh”. 

“Professor Sher Singh gave facts and figures of various departments in order 
to prove that Punjabi region gets lions’ share. He explained to the audience 
how Hindi Andolan was started and how Daulata and Maru Singh opposed It, 
He warned the audience that if Hindi Andolan and this election andolan were 
not properly understood by them then Punjabi will remain predominent langu- 
age in Punjab by Pt. Nehru”. 

Pt. Budh Dev Vidya Alankar, stage secretary introduced Pt. Budh Dev as 
Dada of Haryana and said that he will give his Ashirwad. “Pt Budh Dev asked 
audience to raise their hands towards sun and to give “Vachan” (pledged) that 
they will vote for sun. Sun was symbol for the various candidates of Haryana 
Lok Samiti”. 

After this Vachan ceremony Pt. Budh Dev warned the audience that if they 
would go back from their vachan they will go to “Narak” (Hell) If they keep 
to their words then it will he the victory of Om flag. 

After the Ashirwad and oath administering ceremony by Pt. Budh Dev 
meeting ended with songs. 

9. Summary of the particulars of the meeting held on It h February, 1962, 
in village Asudha, Jhajjar Assembly Constituency in Jhajjar Parlia- 
mentary Constituency . 

The meeting was started with Piare Lai’s Bhajan “JHANDA PIARA OM KA" 
He said that the respect of Om Flag was in their hands and gave a second song: — 

“ HARAYANA LOOT KE KHA LIYA DHADI WALON NE”. 

Nanhu Ram M.L.A. said audience “Ch. Kanwal Singh is a Haryana Lok Samiti 
candidate from your constituency and his opponent is a person who for his whole 
served the Government service. He (Congress candidate) never selected the 
youths of Haryana for posts in Punjab while he was the member of Public Service 
Commission. He never follows politics. All bad men have entered the congress 
party and the old good persons have left congress. “Kanwal Singh candidate of 
Haryana Lok Samiti said that he had contested election last time from this con- 
stituency. I served and will serve this locality. “If you give me Chance this 
time I will fight for the rights of Haryana”. 

Acharya Bhagwan Dev said, “the residents of this village participated to a 
great extent in Hindi Andolan” One person also was given a all of the people of 



1600 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, J362/VAISAKHA 22, 1364 [Part II 


this locality are Arya Samajis, You should face the congress bravely. In Con- 
gress vote the cows are slaughtered. In this Government no attention or regard 
is paid to Haryana. Daulata and Ranbir Singh bother opposed Hindi Agitation 
that is why Congress allotted them in tickets. 


Jagdev Singh Sidhanti (Respondent No. 1) said, “I served and worked for 
Arya Samai and also worked under the guide of Om Flag. I fought for Hindi 
language. Daulata who is my opponent Is enemy of Hindi and supporter of 
Gurumukhi He (Petitioner) is an agent of Sikhs. He says me illiterate. I 
am graduate of Punjab University, I fought against meat-eaters in Army X 
am going to the Parliament for the protection of Kanya (Virgin Girl) cows and 
Brahmins. ’ 


Sher Singh, M.L.A. said “some people say that I signed on Sachar Formula It 
is quite lie. Our battle is for the rights of Haryana, 45 per cent services should 
be given to Haryana people while on 5 per cent, services is given. Kalron not 
at all wants to give rights to Haryana. In services compulsory metric standard 
Gurmukhi has been introduced in Haryana. Phis compulsion of Gurmukhi should 
be abolished. Make Haryana Lok Samiti successful so that we may get rights 
of Haryana and compulsion of Gurmukhi be abolished. 


Besides these Haryana Lok Samiti candidates two communists Sh, Bhim 
-Singh and Mange Ram Vats also delivered speeches. 


10. Summary of the particulars of the meeting held on 11th February. 1062 in 
Jhajjar Town, Jhajjar Constituency in Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency. . 

This meeting was presided over by Lala Paras Ram resident of Jhajjar. The 
meeting started with Flare Lai’s Bhajan “JHANDA PIARA OM KA” After this 
-song he said”, It is battle of between Dharam and Adharam, between Beard- 
walas and Arya Samajis. Chimnlwalas (Petitioner) is a supporters of Beard- 
walas and Sher Singh and Sidhanti (Respondent No. 1) fight for Haryana 
- Chimnlwala (petitioner) also opposed Hindi Agitation in 1G57. 

Attar Singh Dhanak said, “In congress rule only chamars are considered Hari- 
jans that is why I am contesting election. Prof. Sher Singh and other candi- 
dates of Haryana Lok Samiti are on my back, If Dhanaks of my caste want to 
see me successful then they vote for Prof. Sher Singh and for other candidates 
of Haryana Lok Samiti”. Ram Dliari Balmikl said, "All Balmikees must help 
Prof Sher Singh and other Haryana Lok Samiti candidates. I adopted my leader 
Prof. Sher Singh on the ground to fight for Haryana. So, elect Haryana Lok 
Samiti candidates’’. 


Ram Dhari Gaur said, “I am Haryana Lok Samiti candidate from Gohana 
Constituency. Some persons propagate among Brahmins that Pt, Bhagwat Dayal 
is Brahmin but I am also Pandit so all of my caste brothers should vote lor 
Haryana Lok Samiti candidates so that a battle for the rights of Haryana can be 
fought. 

Budh Ram, M L.A. said, “Prof, Sher Singh always fought for Haryana. We 
fought for Hindi Agitation. In Haryana Gurmukhi is compulsory. Partap Singh 
Kairon called Sher Singh the girl of Haryana. You people should show Kalron 
whether Sher Singh is a brave man of Haryana or a girl ’. 


Mahasha Bhart Singh a candidate of Haryana Lok Samiti from Rohtak con- 
stituency said, “I will appeal to Sainis and others to vote for Arya Samajis. By 
doing so we can raise Haryana and Hindi language high and up. 


Kanwal Singh said, “Congressman due to party discipline cannot raise voice 
for Harvana Help Haryana Lok Samiti candidates only Haryana Lok samiti 
can fight for Haryana Tickets have allotted such persons who were not m Lon- 
■ gress by last years”. 


Nanhu Ram, M.L.A. said, “only Nehru is good man in congress party. Many 
other are thieves. Partap Singh Daulata used to abuse congress and now he is 
in congress. Pt. Bhagawat Dayal Is outsider not of this locality. He (Pt. Bhag- 
wat Dayal) knows nothing about this area”. 

Acharva Bhagwan Dev said “We fought. Hyderabad Andolan under the 
guide of Om Flag and also fought Hindi Agitation. Now this election is a battle 
for the rights of Haryana. Elect Haryana Lok Samiti candidates otherwise 
there will *be Sikha shahi in Haryana. These refugees are worse than Muslims. 



Sfc. S(ii)] THE GAZEITE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1601 


One and a half million thieves (refugees) have been settled in Haryana. What 
good for Haryana atrator can do like Partap Singh Kairon. For the prosperity 
of Hindi language and Haryana you should vote tor the candidates of Haryana 
Lok Samiti". 

Jagdev Singh Sidhanti (respondent No, 1) said, “seeing discrimination in Har- 
yana I became ready to contest election and Prof. Shcr Singh adopted my leader. 
Partap Singh Dualata cats meat and is enemy of Hindi whereas I am contest- 
ing election for the progress of Hindi language. Partap Singh Daulta says me 
illiterate. I am graduate of Punjab University and know six languages. I am 
going to Parliament for the protection of Brahmin, cow and Kanya (Virgin 
girl) Prof. Sher Singh said, “Partap Singh Kairon confer all rights to sikhs not 
to Haryana only 5 per cent, rights are given to Haryana. A poster, printed by 
some one congresswala, bearing my signature on Saehar Formula is quite 
wrong. He appealed audience to vote for the candidates of Haryana Lok 
Samiti”. 

In the last Pt. Budh Dev was asked to give Ashirvad as "Dada” (greatest 
Pandit) of Haryana. He said he will give Ashirvad only if audience gave him 
“Vachan” to vote for Haryana Lok Samiti candidates. People were asked to 
raise their hands towards sun and to remember sun on the day of polling. This 
is significant that Haryana Lok Samiti has chosen sun as symbol for their candi- 
dates. He warned, “those who go back from the pledge given to the highest 
Brahman of Haryana will go to Narak (Hell) . 

11. Summary of the particulars of the meeting held on 12th February, 1902, in 
village Bacili, Jhajjar Assembly Constituency in Jhajjar Parliamentary 

Constituency. 

The meeting was started with Piare Lai’s Bhajan “JHANDA PIARA OM KA’’ 
He further said, "It is a battle between Dharam and Adharam. It is the ques- 
tion of respect of Arya Samaj and of Om Flag. You have to tell in election 
whether you want rights of Haryana or want to be the slaves of the Sikhs and 
also gave a second song: — 

“ HARYANA LOOT KE KHA LIYA DHADI WALON NE” Nanhu Ram M.L.A. 
said, ‘The taxes realised from Haryana are spend for the prosperity of JUL- 
LUNDVR division. Congress party almost has ended only it is alive for noth- 
ing. The bad character men are controlling the congress, The Zamindar 
leaguers have over come Congress. Those who sacrificed for Congress have no 
importance these days. You should vote for the candidates of Haryana Lok 
Samiti for the rights of Haryana. Attar Singh Dhanak appealed his caste peo- 
ple to vote for Prof. Shcr Singh and for other candidates of Haryana Lok 
Samiti. 

Jagdev Singh Sidhanti (Respondent No. 1) said, “I always served Arya Sama], 
Seeing discrimination and unjustice with Haryana I adopted Prof. Sher Singh as 
my leader and on the insisting of people I am contesting election. Partap Singh 
Daulta who is my apponent is an enemy of Hindi, eats meat and is agent of 
Kairon and of the Sikhs, He (petitioner) says me illiterate. I am graduate of 
Punjab University known six languages. 

Prof. Sher Singh said, “unjustice with Haryana is going on. Inspite of 45 per 
cent rights only 5 per cent rights are given to Haryana. Thi money realised 
from Haryana is spent in Jullundur division. Besides chamars not a single ticket 
given to other Harijans by Congress. Whether Balmikis or Dhanaks are Harijans 
or not. “He further appealed audience to vote in favour of the candidates of 
Haryana Lok Samiti for protection of Hindi language, for Om Flag and for the 
rights of Haryana, 

In the last Pt. Budh Dev was asked to give Ashirvad to audience. He agreed 
to give Ashirvad with one condition. The condition was that audience should 
take a pledge to vote for Haryana Lok Samiti candidates. The audience was 
asked to raise their hands to assure Pandit Ji that his command will be respected. 
Thereupon Pandit Ji gave ashirvad for the success of Haryana Lok Samiti and 
warned persons stating that in case audience went back to their pledge, they 
will go to Narak (Hell') as they have pledged before representative of the 
“Braham.” 


After this the meeting was over. 



1602 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : M AY IS, 1962/VA13AKHA 22, 1H84 [Part II 


12. Summary of the particulars of the meeting held on 1 5th February 1962 In 
D-ulhera, Bahadurgarh Assembly Constituency in Jhajjar Parliament Consti- 
tuency. 


The meeting was started with Piare Lai's Bhajan “Jhanda PIARA OM KA” and 
said, “on 24th Feb. 1962 all of you have to deride whether you want keep Haryana 
under the rule of Beard Walaa (The Sikh) or want rule of the people residing in 
Haryana. If you want to maintain respect of Om Flag or not. Levying taxes 
in Haryana the realised money is spent in the area of the Sikhs” After this he 
gave second song "HARYANA LOOT LIYA DHADI WALON NE” 


Nanhu Ham M.L.A. said, "congress has become corrupt now. The old persons 
have resigned congress. Now there is a hold on congress of such persons who were 
anti congress. Siri Chand and Daulata (Petitioner) used to abuse congress and 
congress is their monoply. All Haryana rights are given to Punjabi region. He 
appealed audience to vote for Knnwal Singh a candidate of Haryana Lok Samiti 
Jagdev Singh (respondent No. 1) and Haryana Lok Samiti can only bring 
rights to Haryana. 

Kanwal Singh said, “I contested election as an opposition candidate last time 
in 1957. In the period of last five years no constructive work has been done in 
this locality. If you vote for congress no work will be done for you. I will 
fight for the rights of Haryana with Prof Sher Singh. In all reserve consti- 
tuencies tickets have been allotted to the chamars only other castes i.e. Balmikis 
and Dhanaks have been ignored totally whereas Haryana Lok Samiti allotted 
tickets to Attar Singh Dhanak from Salhawas constituency and Ram Dhari Balmiki 
from Mehma constituency. 


Jagdev Singh Sidhanti (respondent No. 1) said, “I remained in Jullundur for 
some time, all sorts of facilities and rights are prior to Punjabi region in com- 
parison with Hindi region. My opponent is Pratap Singh (Petitioner) on congress 
ticket He takes meat and opposed Hindi Agitation in 1957. In congress rule 
the Cows are slaughtered. In Ashoka Hotel beaf is served there. Nehru also 
takes meals there. Partap Singh (Petitioner) to takes meals there. He 
(petitioner) says me illiterate I am graduate of Sanskrit and know six languages. 


Prof Sher Singh M.L.A. said “Om Battle is for the right of Haryana. We say 
that 45 per cent rights should be given to Haryana in accordance with its popula- 
tion but only 5 per cent rights are given. Secondary is a compulsion of Punjabi 
in Haryana. He fought agitation for Hindi language and will fight if needed. 
He further appealed audience to vote for the candidates of Haryana, Lok Samiti 
and said those who are ready to vote in favour of Lok Samiti raise there hands. 
People raised their hands up. Prof. Sher Singh thanked the audience and 
meeting ended. 


13 Summary of the Particulars of the meeting held on 16th February 1962 in 

village Slmnd, Sampla Assembly Constituency in Jhajjar Parliamentary 

The meeting started with Piare Lai’s Bhajan “JHANDA PIARA OM KA SADA 
RAHEGA UNCHA”, after the song he said “this election is Kabaddi played by 
two teams one is Dharam Pala and the other is Adharam Pale Kairon is Korwa 
of Maha Bhart and Lok Samiti candidates are Pandwas headed by Dharam Putar 
Sher Singh. Kairon’s friends Daulata and Maru Singh arc Daryodhan and 
Shukni ” Then he gave another song “HARYANA LOOT LIYA DHADI WALON 
NE". 

Ram Bhaj Hooda who acted as stage Secretary said “the candidates of Haryana 
Lok Samiti will fight for Haryana rights”. 

Ram Dhari Balmiki who was candidate from Meham Constituency on Haryana 
T nk Samiti ticket said “so far as Harijans arc concerned congress Ra] is Lhamai 
Raj BalmiWef and Dhanaks should ' revolt against it.” He further told thal 
Haryana Lok Samiti was friend of Dhanak and Balmiki castes. Haryana Lok 
Sarah? gave ticket of Arya Snmaj to a Balmiki m Meham constituency and £ 
Dhanak in Salhawas constituency. According to him it was tlm intei cats ol Hirst 
two castes to vote for Arya Samaj candidates otherwise Balmiki candidate from 
Meham and Dhanak candidate from Salhawas will lose their elections, 

Jagdev Singh respondent No. 1 “Daulata says that I am illiterate. I knov 
Dharam education, he knows English. H cannot read a word from or Shastras 
He is agent of Sikhs. He is Lieutenant of Partan Singh Kairon who is a fanatic 
Sikh If vou want to liberate Haryana from Sikhs, vote for me. 



Sfc, 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1603 


Ch. Badlu Ram assured the audience, "that Prof. Sher Singh will be the next 
■Chief Minister of Punjab and will remove compulsion of Punjabi from Haryana.” 

Sh, Ram Mehar Hooda stated that Police was of two kinds, one has red turban 
as its headgear and other C.I.D. which has no turban. “Maru Singh is Congress 
man with a congress turban whereas Siri Ram is a hidden Congressman. He 
said beware of Siri Ram also.” 

Ch. Ram Sarup: — "It is village of Dahiyas and I was responriblj for pushing 
■Ch, Tika Ram to Ministership who was Dahiya. All others were m iavour of 
Ch. Suraj Mai of Hissar. I deserve votes of Dahiya Gotar. 1 will serve you 
again as before. Pt. Budh Dev Vidya Alankar: — Stage Secretary introduced 
Pt. Budh Dev as Dada of Haryana and told that h > will give his Ashirvad. 

Pt. Budh Dev asked audience “to raise their hands towards Sun and to give 
Vachan that they will vote for sun, Sun was symbol for the various candidates 
of Haryana Lok Samiti.” 

AfLer this Vachan ceremony Pt. Budh Dev warned that if they would go. back 
from their words they will go to Hell. If they keep their words then it will be the 
victory of our “Om Flag”. 

After the Ashirvad and oath administering ceremony by Pt. Budh Dev 
meeting ended with songs sung by Piare Lai Bhajnik. 


14. Summary of the particulars of the meeting held on 18 th February 1962 in 
Bahadurgarh, Bahadurgarh Assembly Constituency in Jhajjar Parliamentary 
Constituency. 


The meeting was started with Piare Lai’s Bhajan “Jhanda Piara Om Ka : He 
said, “it is battle between Dharam and Adharam. Sher Singh is the leader of 
Haryana and Lok Samiti walas fight for Haryana. Vote for the candidates of the 
Haryana Lok Samiti otherwise Haryana will go under the voke of Sikhs. After 
this he gave a second song. “HARYANA LOOT LIYA DHADHI WALON NE“. 


Nanhu Ram M.L.A. said, "no share is being given to Haryana. Kairon wants 
to ruin Haryana. So that the people of Haryana huve no voice. In Congress 
there arc slaves of Kairon. The boat of the Congress will sink because one eyed 
man is that and the same person is now a Congress man who some times ago 
used to criticise the Congress Party. 


Attar Singh Dhanak appealed his caste fellows to vote in favour of Kanwal 
Singh and Sidhanti (respondent No. 1) Ram Dhari Balmiki. He made appeal to 
the Balmikis to elect the candidates of the Haryana Lok Samiti as the congress 
is only the party of Chamars. Bacilli Ram Ex. M.L.A, said the audience only 
Prof. Sher Singh is the leader of Haryana. Under his guidance all of we are 
fighting for Haryana. Kanwal Singh iought against the English and now will 
fight against the Sikhs. He further appealed the audience to vote for Kanwal 
Singh and Sidhanti (respondent No. 1). 


Kanwal Singh candidate of Haryana Lok Samiti said, “I contested last election 
and you people voted for me hut 1 could not succeed. Within the period of five 
years no constructive work has been done in this constituency. The realised 
money from Haryana is being spent in Punjabi region. We fight against this. 


Jagdev Singh Sidhanti (respondent No. 1) said, “I remained in Jullundur for 
some time and saw constructive work done bv the Government but here m 
Haryana it is equal to Zero. Gurmikbi forcibly has been introduced in Haryana. 
We fought agitation for the protection of Hindi language. Partap Smgh Daulata 
(Petitioner) and other congress man opposes this agitation. Hi Congress .rule 1 tho 
cow are slauchtercd, Daulata says me illiterate but I am a graduate of "uniaD 
University and know six languages. I am going to Parliament to fight a sat e 
for Haryana.” 

Acharya Bhagwan Dev said, “some persons say that we use Om Flag. I tell 
)i „m thev qlsn can use this Om Flag if they want it. One day this Om Flag will 

wo°d. A, g y. S»nlul fought Hindi 

cbnnld not teach in Haryana. Now it is battle for th- .right 01 naryana 1 ne 
people residing in Ilarvana arc ready to sacrifice every thing for the protection of 
farvana In order toget the rights for Haryana and for the progress of Hindi 
T aneuaee You should vote for candidates of the Haryana Lok Samiti. *Y rt aP 
sfngh DaulaTa opposed the Hindi Agitation. He is an ill hearted man and is an 
agent of Kairon and the Sikhs, 



1604 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA MAY 12, 1 962 / VAISAKHA 22, 1 884 [Fart II 


Sher Singh ML.A. said, “Inspite of 45 pel' cent rights only 5 per cent 
rights have been given to Haryana, We will fight for this He further^told “I 

st H nd r ard e nf C Form ? Ia T Th “ e should be no compulsion of Matnc 
n ‘ °L^ rm ^ h 1 1 1] ? P°sls In Congress only Chamara are considered 

tni Neither Balmiki nor Dhanak g!ven a congress ticket He appealed 

the audience to vote in favour of the candidates of Haryana Lok Samiti. 

_ A he Ft Bud l\ Dsv 1 wa ' 5 at,ked to « ive hJs Ashirvad as DADA (greatest 
TittC Z ,?* Haryana He said he will give Ashuvad only if audience give him 
vacnan (Pledge) to vote for Lok Samiti candidates “People were asked to 
raise their hands towaids sun and to remember gun on the day of Polling This 
is significant that Lok Samiti had chosen sun as a symbol lor their candidates He 
warned those who go back lrom the pledge will be given to the highest Brahmin of 
Haryana will go to Hell, The meeting ended 


15 Summary of the Particulars of the meeting held on 4th February 1962 Anaj 
Mandi Rohtak, Rohtak Assembly Constituency in Rohtak Parliamentary 
Constituency. 

The meeting staited with Piare Lai’s Bhajan m praise of "Om Dhaj” After 
this Bhajan he made a commentaiy on the importance of “Om Flag”. The second 
song was “HARYANA LOOT LIYA DHADI WALON NE” Piare Lai was followed 
by Ram Pat Banprasthi He gave u song criticising Congiess Government for 
Cow Slaughter. 

Sh. Attar Singh Lok Samiti candidate from Salhawas Constituency asked 
Dhanaks and Balmikies to reham from voting Congress because congress is 
enemy of these two castes ” 


Ram Dhari Gaur candidate of Haryana Lok Samiti from Gohana Assembly 
constituency persuaded audience to vote Haryana Lok Samiti In order to liberate 
Haryana from Sikhs or Punjabi Region Sh Nafe Singh Samiti candidate from 
Rai Assembly Constituency started with a humerous story He asked to raise 
Haryana by voting Haryana Lok Samiti candidates and asked people to raise 
Om Flag higher and higher 


Ram Dhari Balmiki supported Attar Singh Dhanak and asked Balmikies and 
Dhunaki to vote for Haryana Lok Samiti and to get congress defeated. As 
according to him Congress was enemy of these two castes 

Sh Badlu Ram criticised for imposing Guimukhi on Haryana people and he 
asked audience to vote against congress So that Haryana Lok Samiti candidates 
were m position to remove Guimukhi from Haryana 


Mahasha Bharat Singh who was candidate on Haryana Lok Samiti ticket from 
Rohtak assembly constituency thanked those who donated for his elections 


Sh Ram Sarup Khadwali asked audience to vote for Haryana Lok Samiti 
because they were free to fight for Haryana where as Congress-men under 
discipline 

Sh Nanhu Ram, Sh Mum Ram Bagn, Shn Devi Lai (ML A) Swami Atma 
Nand and Pi of Sher Singh emphasised on Haryana’s meager share m Government 
services Swami Santosh Anand made highly provocative speech He said Arya 
samaj fought always against “Papees” (Irreligious elements) It fought in 
Hyderabad against Nizam. It fought against Nawab of Loharu Now it will 
fight against Sikhs His sentence that he, who will vote for Congress will give 
his daughter to Bikhs, was height of his attempt to create hatered against Sikhs 
and thus ief raining audience to vote against congress candidates " 


Sh Jagdev Singh respondent No. 1 said that some time he remained Jullundur. 
“Punjabi Hindu think that. Partap Singh Kairon who was the leader of Congress 
in Punjab was a better enemy of Hindus and Hinduism us liberate Haryana 

from Sikhs and the way is to defeat congress in election 

In the last Pt Budh Dev was asked to give his Ashirvad as "Dada” (greatest 
Pandit) of Haryana. He said, “He will give Ashirvad only if audience give him 
“Vachan” to vote for Lok Samiti candidates People were asked to raise their 
hands towards sun and to remember sun on the day of polling This is significant 
fhnt T ok Samiti had chosen Sun as symbol for their candidates He warned, 
“those who g^ back from the pledge given to the highest Brahman of Haiyana 
will go to Hell ” 

Verification —I Partap Singh Daulata, candidate for the election to the house 
of people Horn the Jhajjar Parliaments y Constituency, do hereby solemnly ve ify 



Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; MAT 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 188i I 6o$ 


that the statements of fact made in all paragraphs in Schedule "D” are true to 
my knowledge through Satbir Singh Rana, B.A. son of Ch. Abhe Singh resident 
of Kundal, District Rohtak. 

Dated; 6-4-1062. 

Place: Chandigarh. 


Partap Singh Daulata, 
Petitioner, 


Schedule "E" 


That Arya Samaj is a Dharmik body, It is an organised Church, Its religious 
symbol is “OM DHWAJ’’ i.e. Word OM in Sanskrit Lipi printed on red cloth. 
This religious symbol used in election matters by any candidate or by any political 
parly. Respondent No. I and his agents violated this dictate of law in the 
following manners: — - 

(i) In all public meetings held by or arranged by respondent No. I and his 

agents OM DHWAJ was displayed in large number on stages and 
Pandals. 

(ii) The candidate and his supporters fixed OM DHWAJ to their cars and 

jeeps during election campaign. 

<iii) The supporters of the Lok Samiti fixed OM Flags on election offices and 
their houses. Sometimes more than on^ thousand flags could be 
seen in one village. Workers of Lok Samiti on cycles and on foot 
carried Om Flags with them and asked people to vote for this Om 
Flag and Arya Samaj. Every meeting was started and closed with 
a song by Pyare Lai Bhainik, asking the people to keep Daya Nand’s 
flag high and up. First headline of the song was “JHANDA PTARA 
OM KA SADA RAHE'GA UNCHA”, i.e. Our beloved Om Flag will go 
higher and higher. 

(iv) On 24th February 1062 when polling was going on, on the booth of 
respondent No. I and on those of his colleagues in Assembly Consti- 
tuencies Om Flag was abundantly displayed to show the people that 
their booth were the booths of Dharma. 


Verification. — I, Partap Singh Daulata, candidate for the election to the House 
of the People from the Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency, do hereby solemnly 
verify that the statements of facts contained in various paragraphs of Schedule 
“E” are true to my knowledge. 

Dated: 6-4-62. 

Place: Chandigarh. 

Partap Singh Daulata, 
Petitioner. 

[No. 82/42/62.] 


New Delhi, the 4th May 1902 

S.O. 1375. — In pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 86 of 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby 
publishes a copy of the Election Petition No. 221 of 1962, presented to the Com- 
mission on the 12th April, 1962, under section 81 of the said Act, by Shri Prabhu 
Narain Singh, son of late Shri Pratap Narain Singh, resident of Ck, 62/77, 
Kashipura, Varanasi, calling in question the election to the House of the People 
from the Chandauli constituency of that House of Shri Bal Krishna Singh, son 
of Shri Arjun Singh, village Akorha Kalan, Pargana Majhwar, District Varanasi. 



i6o 6 THE GAZETTE or INDIA: MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


[Part II 


Sd./- Bakhtyab, Husain, 
Signature attested. 
Sd./- K. K. Sethi, 
12-4-62, 

Under Secretary, 
Election Commission, India. 


Presented to me by Shri Bakhtyar Husain 
who has been duly authorised by the petitioner 
to present this petition and whose signature has 
been obtained in the margin and attested as hav- 
ing been signed before me this the twelfth of 
April one thousand nine hundred and sixtv- 
two. 


Sd,/- K, K. Sethi, 
12-4-C2, 

Under Secretary, 
Election Commission, India. 


To 


THE ELECTION COMMISSIONER OF INDIA, NEW DELHI 
Election Petition No. 221 of 1962 

Prabhu Narain Singh a Candidate for Election to the House of People from 
63 Chandauli, Varanasi District, son of late Pratap Narain Singh age 45 yrs r/o 
Ck. 62/77 Kashipura, Varanasi 


Vs. 


1. Sri Bal Krishna Singh s/o. Arjun Singh, village 1 
Akorha Kalan, Pargana Majhwar, District Varanasi, | 

2. Sri Moti Ram s /o Sri Raghunandan, village J> 

Rinauta, Paxgana Hajhwar, Varanasi. | 

3. Sri Harihar s/o Rambadan Singh, village Bhur- I 

kura, Pargana Kera, Varanasi, | 


The contesting candidate 
of the Lok Sabha other 
than the petitioner. 


Respondent. 


Election petition of Sri Prabhu Narain Singh and others under section 81 of 
the Representation of the peoples Act of 1951 and rules made under the said 
Act. 


The petitioner begs to state as follows: — 

(1) That the petitioner was a candidate for election to the House of People 
from the Chandauli constituency 53 Parliament in the District of Varanasi which 
was held on 19th, 21st and 23rd of February, 1962, 

12) That the petitioner was a sitting member of Parliament having defeated 
the Congress Candidate, Pt, Jagat Narain Dube in the by Election last. 

(3) That besides the petitioner there were three more candidates excluding 
the petitioner for election who have been shown as respondent No. 1, 2 and 3 as 
party in this petition. 

(4) That the respondent No. 1 was a Congress nominee who along with the 
candidates oi assembly constituencies namely Pt. Kamlapati Tripathi, Shree 
Shy am La! Yadav, Shree Ram Lakhan, Shree Raj Narain Singh and Shree Himmat 
Bahadur Singh were sponsored as Congress candidates in the Assembly 
constituency, within the 53 Chandauli Parliamentary constituency, who were 
Acting as agents of the respondeat No. 1 for election purposes for and on behalf 
of the Congress Political Party. 

(4) (al That the persons named below were persons who acted as Returning 
Officer oi the State Assembly Constituencies of Chakia, Chandauli, Mahaich and 
Kutchar and who were actively helping the Congress candidates as also against 
the petitioners and they are also guilty of corrupt practices and they conducted 
themselves with partiality against the petitioner for the furtherance oi the Elec- 
tion and prospects of the Congress Candidates, Respondent No 1 m the constitu- 
ency as such they have violated the provisions of Sections 129, 134, and 135 of 
the R.P. Act, The Returning Officers referred to above are (1) Shree Jwala 
Prasad R.O. of Chakia, (2' M. C. Jain R.O. Mahaich and Chandauli, (3) S. C. 
Dixit, R.O. Katehar. 



Sec, 8 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 7607 

(5) That the result of the Election was declared on the 28th of February,, 
1962 by the District Magistrate at 12-10 P.M. as Returning Officer of the Chan* 
dauli Lok Sabha u/r 64 showing the result of the counting as below:— 

1, Respondent No. 1 Bal Krishna 85117. 

2. Respondent No. 2 Moti Ram. 44390. 

3. Petitioner No. 1 Prabhu Narain Singh 83,332, 

4, Respondent No. 3 Harihar 17,235, 

Total No. of Valid Votes Polled, 230,074. 

Total No. of rejected votes 11,097. 

Total No, of Tender votes not mentioned. 

Total No. /Voters on the rolls of the Chandauli Lok Sabha Constituency 
were as follows: — 

(1) 84445 (Mahich) (2) 84525 (Moghul Sarai) (3) 78476 (Chakia) 
(4) 92030 Katehar (5) 82862 Chandauli and accordingly, 
i.e. total of 4,22,338' Respondent No. 1 was declared to be elected from the 
said constituency and accordingly a certificate was issued to the res- 
pondent No. 1 on the 28th of February, 1862, as required under 66 
of tho Election Rules. 


(6) That the aforesaid election was not a free and a fair election by reason 
of corrupt and illegal practices as defined u/s 123 (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7) and also u/s 
125 of the R.P. Act, 1951 and in utter disregard of the Election Law and ruffs 
and with material irregularity which extensively prevailed at the aforesaid elec- 
tion in the constituency as hereinafter stated, which materially affected the result 
of tho Election. 

(7) That a concise statement of the material facts on which the petitioners 
relies arc as follows: — 

(a) That corrupt practices by the respondent No. 1 through his agent in 

election who were candidates in the assembly constituency also by 
conveyance of electors in hire and procured vehicles to and 
polling stations details of which are given in Schedule 1 within the 
meaning of sec. 123 (5). 

(b) That the respondent No. 1 has incurred expenditures in contravention 

of sec. 77 of the R.P. Act. 

(8) That the corrupt practices specified in section 123 of the R.P- Act, have 
been committed by the returned candidate respondent No. 1 and the election of 
the said candidate is void. Particulars of the corrupt practices resorted to are 
given in detail in the following sub-paragraphs and the Schedules attached with 
this petition on the basis of information already available The petitioners crave 
leave to add to these particulars at a later date, if and, when all the election 
papers arc examined. 

(8) (if That most of the teachers of Primary and Middle School, Patwaris 
and employees and staff of the Antarim Zila Parishad Varanasi, wer; appointed 
as Polling personals, especially, the village teachers who wer? deputed as Polling 
personals in his own village at Polling stations in which the said teacher were 
teaching against the rules thereunder, they influenced their respective village 
voters in favour of respondent No. 1 who is an influential member of the Antarim 
Zila Parishad, Varanasi and was connected with the educational establishment 
of the Parishad. 

nil That the employees of the institutions who were appointed as Polling 
Officers were either members of the Congress Party or they professed marked 
Political leaning towards Congress Candidates as against the petitioner. A list 
of such poRhig^p 1 rsonals arc given in Schedule showing their names and their 
employment with their other details particularly in the Chandauli assembly 
constituency. 

(8) (2) That Shree Pt. Kamlapati Tripathiji was the Education Minister and 
as such he exercised great influence over the principles of education institutions 
in all the assembly constituencies under 53 Chandauli, and, he influenced them 
to exerewo thew pressure upon the voters to vote for the respondent No. 1, to 
the exclusion of the petitioner. 

(8) (3) That School teachers worked as Canvassers for respondent No. 1 and 
his parties in the Villages in the Constituency, and also they helped the respond- 
ent No 1, 'when they served as Official Polling Clerks to do various duties at the 



l6o8 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAK.HA 22, 1884 


l Fart II 


Polling Stations on the Polling days. A very large number of Official Polling 
Clerks in this Constituency who were drawn from the District Board School 
indulged in all sorts of malpractices to help the respondent No. 1. Their list is 
included in the Schedule. 

(9) That the corrupt practices mentioned above had materially affected the 
result of the election in this constituency. 

(10) That the result of the Election has been materially affected by non-com- 
pliance with the Provisions of R.P. Act and rules, particulars of which as far 
as available, are given below. 

(a) The Polling Official parties for Chakia Chandauli, and Mahaich Constitu- 
encies in the Lok Sabha consisted of personals having a leaning towards res- 
pondent No. 1 and his party, who were the Congress Candidates of the said 
Constituencies and the appointed Polling Parties violated the provisions of sec- 
tions 125 and 134 of the R.P. Act and rules and instructions issued thereunder. 

(b) That, in furtherance and with the object of helping of the election of the 
respondent No. 1, the distribution of ballot papers to different polling stations of 
the constituencies wore totally inadequate and short of the number of the regis- 
tered voteis attached to those polling station; witn the result that a large number 
of voters could not exercise their franchise to vote, and wer; not supplied with 
ballot papers on account of shortage. Instances of this nature were complained 
of in Polling No, 80 and 81 Shahpur in particular and also at several other 
Polling Stations detailed hereinafter in the petition. 


(11) That voters totalling to about 4000 were ordered to be included in the 
roll and when they went to exercise their vote at their polling station they were 
returned on the plea that the amended roll was not received by their respective 
presiding Officers and thus a vast number of voters were not permitted to exer- 
cise their franchise to vote. The above non-compliance with the R.P. Act and 
rules was possible only bv the concerted action of the returning Officer of Chakia, 
Chandauli, Mahaich and Katchar to which stations the votes belonged. 

(12) That many of the polling stations particularly at Chakia, Chandauli, and 
Mahaich Ballot papers for the Lok Sabha were not given at all to ignorant voters, 
who were told to go away after casting their vote for the assembly, as their vote 
were cast and when they had left the Polling booths their ballot papers for the 
House of People were issued were either left blank or marked for respondent No. 
1 by the Presiding Officer himself or through Polling Officers supporting the res- 
pondent no 1 Polling Stations where this was done are given in this petition 
particularly at 51, 52, and 53 Polling Stations in Mahaich constituency. 

(13) That Ballot papers of absent and dead voters were issued and marked ny 
the Polling Officers in favour of respondent No. 1 and put in the ballot box. 

the Ballot Papers account in form No. 10 kept by the Presiding 
, totally wrong and against the instructions, they disclosed serious 
so that no proper check of ballot papers received, or used, can be 
ie and In several polling stations these accents, when compared with 
if the returning officers, several discrepancies and mistakes are found, 
establish the wrong counting made, against the counting instructions 
'his resulted in miscount, specific instances of Polling Station are given 

hereafter. 


(14) That 
Officers were 
lack of duty 
properly mac 
the returns c 
which fully 
and rules. T 


(15) That all the irregularities and illegalities were made posslblejjy not making 
proper arrangements for counting and no eflective supervision were allowed to 
be made in as such as no reasonable ratio, between the number of counting assis- 
tants employed and candidate’s counting agents, were allowed although under the 
rules 16 counting Agents were permissible for the 10 counting tables for parlia- 
mentary constituency, but the number of counting agents of the petitioner was 
curtailed and reduced to 5 instead of at least 12 permissible under rule 52 read 
with section 47 of the R.P. Act 1951. 

r 10) That form No. 21 u/r 45 of the Election Rules, has not been filled in as 
prescribed and similarly form Nos. 20 and 21 upder rules 57 and 64 are also 
incomplete, as the total number of tender votes have not been shown either 
in form No 20 or 21, which should have been taken from form No 16, thus the 
whole counting is incomplete in several respects to lustlfy recount and scrutiny. 

n7) That at the time of close of the counting in the 53 Chandauli Parlia- 
mentary Constituency, in Its assembly constituencies, objection was made to the 
assistant Returning Officers particularly to C.D.O. Chandauli, and Mahaich Sh 



Sec. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1609 


M. C. Jain and also S.D.O. Katehar and Chakia i.e. to Mr. S. C. Dikshit and Shrl 
Jwala Pd. for recount, but they returned back the application, by saying that only 
the District Magistrate as Returning Officer of the Parliamentary Constituency can 
make an order for recount u/r (13 of th j Election rules; where upon the Petitioner 
made such an application to the District Magistrate as Returning Officer, on the 
28th of February 1982 in writing, before any return m form 20 or 21 was prepared, 
but the Returning Officer, wrongfully rejected the application although he was 
informed that the Election Commission has likewise, been applied for, recount, 
simultaneously. 

(18) That the District Magistrate although has passed an order refusing re- 
count, the same has not been delivered or any copy issued to the petitioner in spite 
of a proper application therefor. The order Is clearly unjustified, and beyond the 
scope of the Returning Officer and the same could not have been rejected, under 
the rule. 


(19) That for the facts and reasons stated below the result of the election, in 
so far as it concerns the returned candidate i.e. respondent No. 1, has been 
materially affected by the improper reception, refusal and rejection of a vast 
number of votes, which were void and in fact tile petitioner has received a 
majority of valid votes in the election and that but for the votes obtained by 
the respondent No. 1 by corrupt practices, the petitioner would have obtained a 
vast majority of valid votes over those polled by the respondent No. 1 and the 
election of the respondent No. 1 Is liable to be declared void and the petitioner 
is entitled to have been duly elected. 


(20) That the provision of rule 93 of the Conduct of Election Rules 1981 relating 
to the production and inspection of election papers were not 

complied with, which Is clear from the fact that when the petitioners 

applied for inspection of account and other papers connected with 
the election on 23rd March 62 before the Returning Officer, Varanasi and it be- 
came known that the petitioner was filing an election petition, the local authori- 
ties and the respective assembly officers in the parliamentary election consti- 
tuency of the petitioner got alarmed, and they began to put all sorts of obstruc- 
tions In the way of getting proper inspection by the petitioner and the return- 
ing officers concerned are believed to have employed various means and ways 
+0 impede and obstruct the inspection by the petitioner by mishandling and re- 
handling bundles of election papers behind the back of the petitioner which will 
be evident from the check of the seals of the bundles which previously had borne 
the signatures of the candidates’ agents, which has now disappeared. All thin 
was committed by the returning officers concerned without any authority from 
a competent court or a tribunal, in direct breach of rule 93 of the conduct of 
election rules. Several complaints regarding the conduct of the returning 
officers concerned were made both to the D. M, as returning officer of the Parlia- 
mentary constituency, and also to the Election Commissioner particularly on the 
following dates 29, 30, and 31 mark, 1902. 3-4-02. 4-4-62 and 5-4-62. As a result 
of which the petitioners have not been able to get proper inspection. The details 
given in the petition have been given as far as possible in the peculiar circum- 
stances of the case, 


(21) That the Returning Officer of the Parliamentary Constituency, before 
declaration of the result failed to give due consideration to the grounos praying 
for recount under rule 63 of the Conduct of Election Rules, namely, about the 
wrong procedure adopted and wrong counting made In the constituencies under the 
parliamentary constituency specially by the Returning Officer Mr. M. C Jam, Shri 
Tawala Pd Mr S C Dikshit, the Asstt. Returning Officer m the constituencies of 
Cbandauli, Mahaich Chakia and Katehar I.e. the counting of which were made at 
Chakia, in the soldiers board, and in the Antarlm ^ila Parish ad and In the Colleo- 
torate compound and vicluity. 

/■o?\ That the interested counting assistants have as a matter of fact included 
the ballot papers of other candidates In the bundle of ballot papers of Congress 
Candidate respondent No. 1. and thus swelled Its numbers. These bundles were 
not permitted to be looked Into and could not be checked by the petitioners agent 
on the plea that they are not permissible to be checked by the candidate or the 

counting agents. 

(23) That thousands of ballot papers, amongst the eleven thousands rejected 
ballot papers in the parliamentary constituency, were found to have been marked 
nn the P back side of the ballot paper, because the symbols appear dearly on the 
back side as well, and the symbol of the petitioner was marked by the vo ers with 
stamps on the back side of the ballot paper thereby clearly Indicating the tntentn - 



l6lo 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 [Part IE 


of the voters to cast their vote in favour of the petitioner and there was not the 
slightest doubt about the vote having been cast for the petitioner. 


(24) That on a proper scrutiny and recount of the ballot papers both counted as 
valid and also rejected as invalid, in accordance with rules 56 and 39 of the Conduct 
of Election Rules, not less than six thousands ballot papers amongst the rejected 
ballot papers will be found to have been cast for the petitioner and thev are good 
and valid votes for the petitioner and they could not have been rejected in any 
case or .treated as a vote recorded on a ballot paper liable to be rejected or to make 
it doubtful to which candidate the vote has been given, In any case counting instruc- 
tions contrary to the provisions of the Election Rules 39 and 1 56 can have no effect. 
The confusion in counting was mainly caused on account of not permitting 16 
counting agents as prescribed in rule 52 of the election rule read with section 47 
Of the E. P. Act as referred to before In this petition. 


(25) That several hundred of ballot papers Issued by Presiding Officers In the 
constituency were wrongfully rejected although the votes recorded thereon were in 
favour of the petitioner without assigning any valid ground. Such ballot papers 
were in the nature of incorrect printing of the symbol of the communist candidate 
Hari Har, whose symbol of ear of corn was not printed and a star was wrongly 
printed instead on account of this the vote cast in favour of petitioner No. 1 upon 
he tree symbol on the ballot were not counted for him and the ballot paner 'a as 
wrongly rejected. Such ballot papers numbered more than one hundred at one of 
the several polling stations. The exact number can be ascertained after inspection 
of Ballot Papers. 


(26) That a number of complaints about counting were brought tn the notice 
of Shrl M C Jain the Returning Officer of Mahaich and Chandauli and Sri Jawala 
Prasad Srivastava for Chakia and Sri S. C. Dikshit for Katehar, but they expressed 
their inability to accept the complaint which should be submitted to the District 
Magistrate as Returning Officer of the Parliamentary constituency. The Returning 
Officers referred to above failed to exercise their independant and impartial judge- 
ment on account of their questionable alliance or leanings with the Congress 
Candidates, of the respective constituencies particularly from Chandauli who 
happened to be the ex-MInister of the State of U.P. 

(27) That the confusion in counting will be abundantly clear from the *°1 low- 
ing wherein the discripancies and mistakes in the ballot paper account of the Presid- 
ing Officers, as compared with those of the Returning Officers result of count, ha e 
been clearly brought out. 


“A KATEHAR CONSTITUENCY 


(1) At Polling Station No. 6 Dan. Ganj. „ tri 1652 

The Serial No. of Ballot Papers receded was 220726 to 231178—1452 

Serial No. of Ballot Papers issued to voters i.e. 229(26 to 231178 1402. 

WHI , +hp Returning Officers result of counting has been shown only 452. 
T+ ^ understandable how these 1000 ballots received and issued to voters 
It, is not ' j j ti ; s suspected that these 1,000 ballot papers were mark- 

Jr^'hc E^’SSta.. away with and the aaecm.a h.a been 

made up for 452 only. 

fo\ Ai Polling Station No 16 Bhopapur, the Ballot paper account of the Pre- 
siding Officer ^differs from the result of counting given by the Returning Officer. 

CD At Polling Station No. 19 Ayar e Higher Secondary Schools, the ballot 
n.nlr Bccnunt shown docs not tally with the ballot papers actually received and 
paper returned show a difference of not less than 0 or 8 votes which 

^ «Sia1s of ballot papers issued. , Thus the Ballot 
papers alleged to have been used by voters is In fact, in excess of 557 shown I y 
the Presiding Officer and returning officer. The whole account is a false! , _ made 
UP one and imaginary- That at this polling station secrecy was violated by the 
presiding officer and he himself used to cross stamp marks on the ballot papers 
and no^done by the voters. More than a hundred ballot papers were thus cross 
stamped by the' Presiding Officer and when he was detected in this 
wrongful work he was made to note the fact of marking at least 55 ballot papers 
whose numbers are 247747 to 247801. AH this was highly objectionable and 
seriously illegal and the said corrupt practice and non-compliance with the vro- 
vlsions 1 and rules regarding elections extensively adopted other Polling stQt ^ 
also materially effected the result of the election of the returned candidate whic 

is void. 



Sec, S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1684 


l6l r 


A ,t Polling Station No. 18 Shri H. C. Singh the Presiding Officer com- 
mitted all these 1 Legal acts to favour the Congress Candidate wHo was his intimate 
having secret alliance with them to safeguard his temporary encumbent. 


(5) At Polling Station No. 1<\ Ayara High r Secondary School, the Serial No 
of Ballot papers received at tills Polling Station bears serial numbers from 248300 
to 249000 which a total of 701 but the Presiding Officer shows only 849 ballot 
papers to have been received. The excess of 52 ballot papers remains unexplain- 
ed. Either the Presiding Officer has utilised them for the candidate of his choice 
l.e. in favour of respondent No. 1, or have wrongfully got them cast elsewhere which, 
can only be ascertained after counting, checking and comparing the ballot papers 
polled In all the 5 constituencies, and see if the said serial numbers are found 
there. Besides, the serial numbers of ballot papers not used has been shown to 
be from 24700 to 24900 which series has not been received at this polling station 
by the Presiding Officer, Further the serial No. of ballot papers issued to voters 
has been noted to be from 2448300 to 24599 that is begining from 7 digits and 
ending with 5 digits which appears to be absurd and cannot yield 395 as the total 
No, All this appears to be result of premeditation designed and to fraudulently 
concealed the actual state of affairs and the mystery can be revealed only on the 
secrutiny and accounting of the ballot papers, It is relevant to note that 6 ballot 
papers have been cancelled which appears to be of the series of ballot papers re- 
ceived while the ballot papers issued to voters and those not used do not belong 
to the series of the ballot papers received at this polling station. All this goal 
rnaal Is the result of concerted action of the Congress Candidates In this con- 
stituency and the Polling staff who appears to have been selected by the return- 
ing officer to fulfil the wishes of the respondent No. 1 and his supporters, The 
polling group at this polling station was admittedly in unholy alliance with the Con- 
gress Candidates as, the same kind of gross negligence is found at polling station 
No, 19 in .Mughal Sarai Constituency where the same polling party was deputed 
on 21-2-1962. 


(6) In Polling Station No. 22 Shiv Rampur, the ballot paper account show 
that 1323 ballot papers were received contained in the serial numbers of ballot 
papers received from serial numbers 251275 to 252421 and 251801 to 251849 and 
252003 to 252129 while ballot papers not used are from 252519 to 252421 i.e. 203 
leaving the number of ballot papers issued to voters numbering 1120 while the 
account of the returning officer showing total No. of ballot papers round in box is 
given as 512 this leaves 608 ballot papers unaccount for m this polling station. 
Either they have been done away with In favour of the candidate i)f their choice to 
the prejudice of the petitioner or disposed of according to their sweet will, 

(7) At. Polling Station No. 23 the serial number of ballot papers have not been 
given so as to detect the disposal of 145 ballot papers wrongly shown to be missing. 

(8) At Polling Station No. 25 Palhi Patti, the ballot papers actually received 
from serial No. 254218 to 25506G i.e. 849 but It has been wrongly shown to be 720 
and does not account for 129 of the ballot papers received and further the ballot 
papers issued to voters by serial No. from 254218 to 254696 and 255066 which when 
counted means 480 ballot papers this account when comnared by the result of 
counting by the returning officer shows that there are 81 ballot papers short at 
the counting. This too Is a clear indication of the fact that at this polling also ns 
at several other polling stations ballot papers have been misused, mishandled 
and utilised for the benefit of respondent No. 1 or for any other candidate of the 
choice of the returning officer or of the Presiding Officer’s Party. The polling 
parties under the returning officer have been clearly guilty of partiality favouritism 
to make a free and fare election Impossible, 


(9) At Polling Station No. 26 Luskcrpur Primary School the same thing has 
happened as at Polling Station No. 25 i.e, from the serials of the ballot papers re- 
ceived from 255067 to 256101, 255085 to 255099 and 255399, 255515 and 256082 to 
256099 the total number of ballot papers received comes to 1070 as against 1000 
wrongly shown while the total number of ballot papers issued to voters should be 
650 which we got after deducting 420 from 1070. The result^ of counting given by 
the returning officer is only 577. Thus 73 ballot papers remain unaccounted for in 
this poll, If they were cast for the petitioner they may have been destroyed which 
is most probable in view of the conduct of the presiding officer exhibited in most 
of the polling stations In these constituencies. 

(10) At Polling Station No. 27 Laksharpur also ballot papers received from 
Serial No, 256102 to 257197 give a total of 1,093 as against 918 wrongly shown. This 
excess of ballot papers numbering to 178 remain unaccounted for and must have 



3612 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/ VAHAKIIA 22, 1884 [Part II 


been destroyed by the Presiding Officer as they were cast for the petitioner. Besides 
at this poll It appears that some series for 258020 have been received as It disclosed 
in the serial numbers noted for issued to voters and also others not used but these 
serials have not been mentioned In the serial number received. Thus the whole 
counting and the ballot papers account have been a juglery and a mlstery created 
by the presiding officer and the returning officer in this polling station. 

(11) Similarly at Polling Station No. 29 Kahada Primary School serial numbers 
of ballot papers received by the Presiding Officer Is from 257898 to 2-08000 and 
259001 to 259608 t.s. a total of 700 ballot papers out of which ballot papers issued 
to voters are numbered 257900 to 258000 and 259001 to 259488 which totals to 578 
but In the return 100 ballot papers have been shown less by the Returning Officer 
us a result of counting. The returning officer or the Presiding Officer appears to be 
done away with the 100 ballot papers which are Issued to the voters were cast by the 
voters in favour of petitioner, 

(12) At Polling Station No. 31 the Presiding Officer’s account when compared 
with that of the Returning Officer's shows a deficit of one ballot paper. 

(13) At Polling Station No. 33 Bablyaw Primary School the serial numbers of 
ballot papers have been purposely omitted by the Presiding Officer to amid a 
detection of the irregularity and illegality committed by him at the polling station 
so that no check can be made regarding valid votes cast at the polling ‘■•lation. 
Shri Hari Nath Lai is Asstt. Master Government Inter College Jakhini whose 
appointment to the post was due to the mercy of the Congress Candidate cf the 
constituency where Jakhini Is situate. 

(14) At Polling Station No, 34 a comparison of the Presiding Officer's account 
and the result of the returning officer shows a difference of one ballot paper. 

(15) At Polling Station No. 30 Tari Primary School from the serial numbers of 
the ballot papers received the total comes to 855 and 791 as wrongly shown and 
on detecting the number of ballot papers not used i.e. 280 the totul number of 
ballot papers issued to voters comes to 572. The result of the counting by the 
returning officer shows 511 as found in ballot box. The Presiding Officer there- 
fore, as has been usual in this contituency must have spoiled 62 ballot papers 
which were presumbly cast in favour of the petitioner. 

(16) At Polling No. 38 Cholapur Junior High School on checking the Presiding 
officer’s ballot papers account it Is found that ballot papers not used of the said 
poll has been inflated and shown to be 376 but it should be 276 thus the number 
■of ballot papers Issued to voters comes to 725 and not 612 In this aspect 100 ballot 
papers have been unaccounted for at this Station. In this Station the Presiding 
Officer has been illegally not issuing Loksabha Ballot Papers to the voters for 
their marking and he used to return the voters after the cast of the Assembly 
vote and thereafter used the blank ballot of the Loksabha to the advantage of the 
Congress Candidate by marking cross stamp in favour of the Congress Candidate, 
This is borne out by the detection and the complaint by one voter Budia who was 
not given any ballot paper tor Loksabha and on her hew and cry she was supplied 
with the Loksabha Ballot Paper which was treated as tender ballot paper. After 
this complaint the Polling personales are reported io have been changed. This 
serious discrepancy is fully supported by the- result of counting of Shri S. C. Dikshit 
the Returning Officer of the constituency as also from the Presiding Officer’s 
diary as well as the complaints made at this poll. 

(17) At polling station No, 39 Gosaipur Primary School there is difference of 
at least one vote between ballot paper account of the Presiding Officer and the 
result of the Returning Officer. 

(18) At polling station No. 40 Gosaipur Primary School on a check of the figures 
noted by the Presiding Officer In his ballot papers account we find that the ballot 
papers Issued to voters according to the serial number given should be 628 while 
the Presiding Officer has shown 625 thus 6 ballot papers remains unaccounted 
for by comparison of the Presiding Officer's account and that of the Returning 
Officer. 

(19) At polling station No, 42 Imlia Primary School three ballot papers remains 
unaccounted for when compared with the account of the Presiding Officer and the 
Returning Officer. 

(20) At Polling Station No 44 Chhanht Primary School it appears that the 
Ballot Papers should be 609 as received instead of 704 which 'those issued to voters 



Sec. 3(Ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKIIA 22, 1884 igjj 


comes to 478 thus a comparison between ihe Presiding Officer’s Account and 
that of the Returning Officer there is a difference of 100 votes found In excess in 
the ballot box. This is a very serious matter and establishes the corrupt inten- 
tions and work of the polling party in collusion with the Returning Officer Shri 
S. C, Dikshit. 

(21) At Polling Station No. 43 Umraha Primary School the Presiding Officer’s 
account is totally a faked up account as no check can be made from the figures 
given in the ballot papers account as their serial numbers given cannot be checked. 
This is clear lrom the s. no. of ballot papers given in the account. 

(22) At Polling Station No. 46 Umraha Primary School the practic > of giving 
the Assembly ballot paper to the voters and wlth-holding the Loksabha ballot 
papers by the Presiding Officer at this place also has been prevalent as has been 
mentioned hereinbefore in certain polling stations. At this Polling Station one- 
Mr. Ram Bans son of Akshaibar of village Mohandaspur elector at Roll No. 67 
reported that on demand of the second ballot paper for Loksabha which was not 
given before was refused and upon filing the complaint in writing by him the- 
Presiding Officer very reluctantly issued one and it is believed that this Polling 
Officer has been doing this nefarious work since the beginning of Poll. The 
accounts given by him of the ballot papers are faked up as will appear from the 
Ballot paper accounts for not used and those issued to voters. A scrutiny of the- 
Ballot Papers after inspection with tb' 1 z — ovrts of this Presiding Officer will reveal 
that the ballot papers serial number has been shown to have been issued to voters 
and the same numbers have been shown as not used thus there is a make up of 
154 ballot papers which remains unexplained. 

(23) At Polling Station No. 47 Primary School Umraha, the Returning Officer 
Mr. Dikshit has clearly favoured the respondent No, 1 by adding one hundred votes 
to respondent No. 1 and this establishes the Returning Officer’s leaning and mental 
dishonesty for the candidate of his choice. The result of the counting for respon- 
dent no. 1 should have been 272 but the Returning Officer has given a grace of 
100 votes to him and shown 372 as valid votes cast for respondent no. 1. This is 
highly objectionable and the Returning Officer is guilty under section 129 and 
134 of the Representation of People Act under which he Is liable to be punished 
considering all the circumstances and his conduct in the election of this constitu- 
ency. 

(24) At Polling Station No. 52 Rauna Khurd Primary School the Presiding 
Officer’s Ballot Account show that he actually received 540 ballot papers and 
returned not used only 275 ballot papers and those issued to voters comes to 265 
while the Returning Officer’s Counting Result shows that 524 ballot papers were 
found in the ballot box thus the excess ballot papers found in the ballot box nun 
berlng 259 establishes a serious charge against the Returning Officer Shri S. L 
Dikshit in inflating the ballot box with extra ballot papers, It also appears that 
the Presiding Officer prepared a totally Imaginary account of ballot papers show- 
ing the receipt of 799 ballot papers as against 540 resulting from the serial number 
of ballot papers given by him. The Presiding Officer at this place was Shri J. P. 
Chaturvedl who is A.D.I.O. (Information) (Department) under Shri Kamla Patl 
Tripathi the formal Information Minister of the State who is also a congress 
Candidate from Chandauli Assembly constituency. This clearly establishes the 
currents and under current and alliances between the Assembly candidate and the 
respondent No. 1 with the Polling Parties employed in this constituency as engi- 
neered by the Returning Officer Shri Dikshit. 

PS) At Polling Station No. 53 Rauna Khurd the Returning Officer Shri S. C. 
Dikshit has visited this place and hud been encouraging the Presiding Officer to 
favour the Congress Candidate as has been reported by the Polling Agents at this 
place where all the Congress Candidates were influencing the polling parties for 
the Congress. 

(261 At Polling Station No. 57 Ajgara Primary School the Presiding Officer 
Shri Ra.iendra Naiain Lai docs not give the serial number of the Ballot Papers 
not. used or the ballot papers Issued to the voters or the ballot papers cancelled 
to avoid checking and the mere figures of total number of ballots under those 
heads show that the ballot papers Issued to voters should be 637 and not 486 
therefore a result of counting showing the ballot papers found in the box to be 
686 is totally wrong and does not explain from where 49 ballot papers have been 
Imported In the box. 

(27) At Polling Station No. 62 Mharari Junior High School it is disclosed In 
the Presiding Officer’s diary that 35 ballot papers from 288131 to 285165 to belong- 



1614 1 HE GAZETTE OF INDIA MAY 12, I9e2/VAI3AKHA 22, 1331 


II 


to some other constituency in the Lok Sabha and the ballot papers within those 
numbers or others m the senes that were cast at this Poll should not have been 
counted at the counting and they should have been rejected by the Returning 
Officer Shri Dikshlt which he has not done in contravention to his duty ns a 
reiurnmg officer and he is guilty under sections 129 and 134 for breach of his 
official duty. 

(28) At Polling Station No 72 Chandravati Private School the ballot account 
does not give any account lor ballot paper no 294272 and thus return has been 
very negligently prepared. 

(29) At Polling Station No 81 Shahpur Primary School on account of shortage 
of ballot papers the polling was suspended for three hours as mentioned herein- 
after in this petition on account of less supply of ballot papers by the Returning 
Officer in violation to instructions of the election commission It may be clearly 
stated that a Polling Station No 81 Shahpur Primary School the total number of 
Electors on the roll are about 1200 The returning officer supplied only 400 ballot 
papers at the polling station m direct violation to instructions for supply of ballot 
papers equal to the number of voters alloted to a particular polling station Thus 
at the said polling station the 400 ballot papers were exhausted by mid day and 
the parliamentary casting of votes was suspended for about three hours during 
which time hundreds of votes of petitioner melted away and could not cast their 
votes for want of ballot papers for the parliament Complaint was made with 
the presiding officer to that effect and voters as many as 200 had to go away with- 
out casting their parliamentary votes It is worthy to note that Sri Dixit the 
leturnlng officer refused the inspection of the presiding officer’s diary of this 
Polling Station to conceal his lapse of duty. 

(30) At Polling Station No 82 Primary School Narninpur two ballot papers 
nos 387924 and 387925 have not been accounted for by the Presiding Officer 

(31) At Polling Station No 94 Barhanpura Primary School the Presiding 
Officer does not account for 100 ballot papers which appear to have been misused 
by him and he has shown only 700 ballot papers as receipt A note by the 
Presiding Officer to the effect that 100 ballot papers have been handed over to 
Sector Magistrate cannot bo sustained and may be a lame excuse to make up 
the accounts particularly for the reason that when the ballot papers are supplied 
to a Presiding Officer It is his duty to at once note them down in form no 16 
which is completed later at the close of the Poll 

“B” CHANDAULI CONSTITUENCY 

(1) At Polling Station No 1 R Primary School the ballot papers account 
given by the Presiding Officer has been shown tp be 891 while the serial numbers 
of ballot papers received from 144001 to 144733 which works 711 similarly the 
ballot papers issued to voters when worked out from serial numbers 144001 to 
144592 works out 592 and not 550 the result of counting given by the returning 

officer Shri M C Jain is only 551 and it is not knowable how the Returning Officer 
has done away with 41 ballot papers 

(2) At Polling Station No 2 Khurja Primary School the ballot papers received 
has been shown to be short by 6 ballot which cannot be explained ns to how those 
G ballot has been disposed off when they have been issued to voters and no’t account- 
ed for 

(3) At Polling Station No 7 Darbeshpur the actual ballot papers were received 
aie actually number 871 while the serial of ballot papeis not used and those of 
ballot papers issued to xoters are given in serials numbers 447 to 878 and 622 to 
440 which aie totally unintelligible and these serials have not been shown m the 
ballot papers received The whole returned appears to have been based upon 
Imaginaiy calculations and serial numbers The Presiding Officer of this place 
have very negligently done his duty and is guilty of breach of official duty In 
connection with election under section 1)4 ffi'F Act 

(4) At Polling Station No 8 Primary School Chandauli the Presiding Officer 
nas failed to give the serial numbers of ballot papers not used or issued to voters 
making a check of the Ballot Papers impossible and the Presiding Officer concerned 
is guilty under section 134 of the R P Act 

(5) At Polling Station No 12 JIIS Chandauli the serial number 153533 
appears in three places in the accounts ? e for ballot papers not used and for 
ballot papers Issued to voters and it is evident that the ballot papers account have 



-Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 12, 1962/VAISAK.HA 22, 1881 


1615 


been given in a slip shod way which becomes meaningless and not capable of 
’.being checked, 

(6) At Polling Station No 13 Bisauri Primary School the serial number of 
ballot papers issued to voters has not been noted by the Presiding Officer in his 
returned and thus no check can be made in a correct way and the slip attached 
In the accounts appears to have b=;en subsequently introduced when the papers 
being consigned to the Record Room. 

(7) At Polling Station No 22 the counting result by the returning officer if 
correctly added comes to 532 while the actual ballot papers issued to voters is 
.shown to b" 633 in the presiding officer’s ballot paper account. Further more 
the difference of 100 ballot papers issued at this polling station remains 
unexplained us to how these have been disposed off and in whose favour they 
have been cast. 

(8) At Polling Station No, 25 and 26 th- j ballot papers accounts are totally 
mcoirect and they show excess of three in one and 10 in the other which remains 
unexplained. 

(9) At Polling Station No. 31 and 32 the accounts are incorrect as it shows 
-an excess of one ballot paper and three ballot papers in them respectively. 

(101 At Polling Station No. 34 Baraini Junior High School there is absolute 
black out about the serial numbers required in the Bollot Papers account and no 
body can check how matters stand at this polling station. This absence of serial 
number of ballot papers is a pointer to the facility to absorb collected ballot 

3 ers from other polling stations and swell the votes of the respondent No. 1 
hout fear of detection. A full scrutiny about the Ballot Papers issued to all 
the polling stations may bring to light the serious departure and non observance 
of rules facilitating corruption among the polling parties. 

(11) At Polling Station No. 38 Amra the excess of one ballot paper in the 
result ot counting by the Returning Officer when only 509 ballot papers were 
issued to voters at this Poll is starting and points to the fact that free ballot 
papers have been available to the miscreants to swell the counting by illegal 
practices. 

(12) At Polling Station No. 41 Asna Primary School the serial numbers of 
"ballot papers cancelled does not show to count correctly and the account is 
totally incorrect. 

(13) At Polling Station No. 42 Asna Primary School the serial numbers of 
ballot papers given cannot be explained and does not give the result noted in the 
total number column thus no proper check can be made. 

(14) At Polling Station No. 49 Jalalpur Primary Pathshala the Presiding 
Officer has given 123 ballot papers to be illegible but no serial number of them 
has boon given nor those ballot papers have been shown to have been returned 
as not used. 

(15) At Polling Station No. 47 Katnharla Primary School the ballot papers 
received were 185771 to 186421 i.e. 651 ballot papers out of which ballot papers 
not used have been shown to be 131 thus only 528 ballot papers appears to have 
been issued to voters. It is strange that 618 ballot papers were found in ballot 
box as noted by the Returning Officer, This swelling of ballot papers in the ballot 
box is a serious matter and it points to the fact that the votes of the respondent 
No. 1 has bc_n swelled by importing ballot papers from other polling stations. 

(16) At Polling Station No. 49 Dighi Primary School ballot papers received 
by the Presiding Officer was 200322 to 202321 the total number of ballots comes 
to 2,000, out of which ballot papers not used is 257 and ballot papers issued to 
voters should have been 1,742 which has hem shown wrongly as 742. Thus a total 
of 1,000 ballot papers issued to voters remains unfound in the result of the 
counting. It is probable that 1.000 ballot papers have been shuffled in counting 
by the returning officer some where in the constituency to inflate the respondent 
No. l’s ballots or the 1,000 ballots have been done away with which were really 
cast for the petitioner. This glearmg discrepencies of 1,000 ballot papers issued 
to voters is important enough for scrutiny and recounting of all the ballot papers 
In the parliamentary constituency. 



i6i6 


I HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1%2/VAI.iAKHA 22, 1884 [Past II 


(17) At Polling Station Nos. 50, 53, 54, 55, 56, 58, 59, 62, 67, 70, 71, 76, 77. 78, 
80, 82, 86, there are a difference of several votes ranging from one to 11 in each and 
every of the Polling Station showing that the Presiding Officer have totally con- 
fused the counting making a check of the counting account of ballot papers 
impossible. 

(18) At Polling Station No. 90 Salimpur Primary School, the ballot papers- 
received actually numbered 900 while the accounts have been given for 800 only 
the 100 ballot papers received by the Presiding Officer remains unaccounted for. 


“C” CHAKIA CONSTITUENCY 


(1) At Polling Station No. 6 Secondarpur North that total number of ballot 
papers issued to voters is only 531 but the ballot papers found in the box as a 
result of counting actually comes to 553 but the returning officer has blindly put 
it at 551, It is unexplainable how this excess of 2 votes found place in the ballot 
box. 


(2) At Polling Station No. 13 Shikargunj Kothi Maharaja Saheb an excess 
of 100 votes have been received by the Presiding Officer but he only account tor 
945 ballots and it is not understandable what has been done with the 100 ballot 
papers actually received. The serial given In the Presiding Officer’s Account la 
totally uncheckable and confusing one. Purposely done to avoid checking. 


(3) At Polling Station No. 30 there is an excess of one ballot paper in the 
result of counting. Similarly at polling station No. 31 there is an excess of one 
ballot papers in the result of counting. 

(4) At Polling Station No. 34 Kharunja the serial numbers of ballot papers 
not used and those issued to voters have not been shown to avoid checking. 


(5) At Polling Station No. 36 Saidpur Primary School on proper checking it 
will found that there is an excess of 9 ballot papers over the Presiding Officers 
accounting and the result of counting. 

(6) At Polling Station No. 40 Direhu the ballot papers of the account of the 
Presiding Officer shows the serial number of received ballot papers have not 
been shown or if shown they are only 527 and all of them appears to have been 
Issued to voters. Now then 273 ballot papers shown to have been not used come 
from. The account is a faked one and does not admit of checking. 


(7) At Polling Station No. 46 Karnaul Primary School at this polling station 
it is strange where from the ballot paper No. 5486 6 has come as the said number 
does not find place among the ballot papers received. The whole account is 
suspicious and uncheckable. 

(8) At Polling Station No. 58 Atnao Sarkari Chaunai went of serial number 
for ballot papers not used and for ballot papers issued to voters it cannot be 
ascertained if the account is correct. The omission has been purposely made 
to avoid the detection. 

/o') At Pollintr Station Nos. 77, 78, and 81 there is a difference of one (1) vote 
in each of the tolling Stations between the account of the Piesiding Officer and 
the result of counting" by the Returning Officer. 


“D” MAHAICH CONSTITUENCY 

CD At Polling Station No. 14 Awahi Primary School the ballot papers actually 
received was 1 %0 and thoa- issued to voters was fourteen hundred and Hv 
while the Returning Officer gives the account for only 405. _ How the one thous 
votes have been wrongfully disposed off remains unexplained. 

At Polling Station No. 21 Madhopur the accounts are imaginary 33 
serial num^rs have been given of the Ballot Papers issued to voters and no chec 
fsTossible Similarly at Polling Station No. 25 Kamalpura College no check car 
be made for want of serial numbers of ballot papers not used and ballot pape . 
issued to voters. 

/o. At Polling Station No. 28 Bihari Primary School the result of countini 
noted bv the Returnfng Officer gives a total of 400 and not four hundred am 
fifty. It is not explainable where those fifty ballot papers have gone. 

C 4 ) At Pollins Station No. 27 Bahri the actual ballot papers issued t3 vo ^ 
comes to four flffysix Instead of four thirty five and it Is not understandable hm 



Sec. 3(il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1617 


the twenty-two ballot papers being dealt with as the Returning Officers result of 

counting shows only for thirty-three ballot papers in the box. 

(5) At Polling Station Nos. 34, 30, 41 there is a difference of one ballot paper 
in each of the polling which remains unexplained. 

(0) At Polling Station No. 77 Mathela the ballot papers received by the 
Presiding Officer are 999 and the number of ballot papers and used should be 477 
instead of 377 wrongly shown thus the ballot papers issued to voters comes to 
522 and it has been wrongly shown to be 622 and the same numbers have been 
shown in the ballot box. It is strange how 100 votes have swelled in the Ballot 
Box. 


(7) At Polling Station No. 79 Kaili Primary School from the serial number 
received the total comes to 759 out of which 518 ballot papers have been shown 
to ba not used. Thus leaving 341 ballot papers issued to voters. It is not 
understandable how 200 ballot papers found misplaced in the Ballot box. 

(8) At Polling Station No. 83 Kanwar from the ballot papers received comes 
to 1,400 and not 900 as wrongly noted and from the ballot papers issued to 
voters it comes to a total of eleven hundred and eighty-four. It Is not understand- 
able where the five hundred votes have disappeared from the result of counting 
given by the Presiding Officer the whole thing is suspicious and appears to be 
conspired by the respondent No, 1 in alliance with the Polling Party. 

(9) At Polling Station No. 86 Balua Higher Secondary School the accounting 
cannot be checked for want of serial numbers of ballot papers not used and 
issued to voters this probably done with a design to avoid checking. 

“E” MOGHAL SARAI 


(1) At Polling Station Nos. 4, 9, 10, 13, 18, there are difference of one or 2 
votes at each polling station between the tw 0 accountings. 

(21 At Polling Station No, 19 it is found when the serial numbers of ballot 
papers issued to voters are added comes to 733 which has been wrongly noted 
as 693, the result of counting only accounts for 693 and does not account for 40 
ballot papers issued to voters. 


(3) At Polling Station Nos. 26, 27 it appears that there Is difference of three 
and one vote respectively which remains unexplained. 


(4) At Polling Station No, 33 Shahjan the ballot papers account cannot be 
properly checked for want of serial numbers. The total number of ballot papers 
actually comes to 752 as received and if the number of ballot papers not used 
shown to be 404 is deducted from those received it leaves a balance of 348 as 
having been issued to voters which has been wrongly shown to be 645 which 
number is also shown to have been found in the ballot box. This excess of 298 
ballot papers in the ballot box is a mystery. 

(5) At Polling Station No. 71 no proper check can be made for want of serial 
numbers and total numbers of ballot papers not used and ballot papers issued to 
voters. This was highly undesirable and negligence of duty by the Presiding 
Officer. 


(6) At Polling Station No. 73 Balua Junior High School the ballot papers 
shown as received is only one thousand forty-eight but on counting the serial 
numbers given It comes to twelve hundred and forty-four. It Is not known how 
these excess ballot papers have been disposed off because no serial numbers of 
ballot papers not used and those issued to voters have been given thus the excess 
of 190 ballot papers remains unexplained. 


(28) To sum up the figures referred to in the five constituencies mentioned in 
the pages from 13 to 33 about the polling stations of the constituencies it may 
be stated that at Katehar constituency a total of 3,074 are affected^ Similarly at 
Chandauli such ballot papers number to 1,466 and that at Chakia, the figure is 115 
and Mahaich 1,876, Similarly at Moghal Sarai it numbers 545. Thus the total 
in whole constituency the ballots affected by the conduct of the polling officials 
and the returning officers about 7,076 votes are proved to have been affected 
which have not been counted or taken into account of in the counting result or 
the returning officer. 

(29) That the Election of Lok Sabha Constituency at Chandauli has not been 
held by fair and legal methods and the so called majority of votes of the jespa - 
dent No. 1 over the petitioner said to be of 1,785 votes is totally wrong and Is in© 



I6i8 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 [Paht II 


result of Illegalities, irregularities, non-compliance and corrupt practices committed 
by the polling parties, Returning Officer and against the Conduct of Election 
Law. Congress Candidate i.c. the respondent No. 1. The election of the 
respondent No. 1 is liable to bo set aside. 

(30) That the real state of affairs shown in pages from 13 to 33 will be further 
borne out by a comparison of the marked copy of ballot papers with those given 
in form No. 16 and the bundles of ballot papers the inspection of which, when 
permitted will fully support the allegation made in this petition, Account and 
scrutiny therefore of the ballot papers are indispensible for the disposal of the 
petition which is also prayed. 

(31) That the accounts submitted bj th ■ respondent No. 1 are false and the 
expenditure incurred by him is much higher. He has hidden many expenses 
such as those incurred on the printing of pamphlets and voters cards for polling 
days and other items of printing in publicity and those incurred on his polling, 
agents on the day of polling and a fairly good amount spent on petrol in 
the Jeeps supplied to him by Sri Kamlapatl Tripathl. The accounts therefore 
should be rejected. 

(32) That as the result of above mal-practices of the respondent No. 1 the 
petitioner was declared defeated. 

(33) That a deposit , of Rs. 2,000 has been made by the petitioner as required 
by law and the Government Treasury receipt showing such a deposit is being 
attached with this petition and five copies of his petition attested by the petitioner 
to be true copies of the petition are also attached. 

Prayer: — 

(a) The petitioner therefore prays the following among other reliefs that 

the election of respondent No. 1 as member of the House of People 
(Lok Sabha) of the Indian Union be declared void and the petitioner 
be declared duly elected for the said House. 

OR 

(b) The election of the respondent No. 1 be declared void. 

(c) That the cost of the proceedings incurred by the petitioner be awarded 

to the petitioner against respondent No. 1. 

(d) That any other and further relief to which petitioner be found entitled 

before the tribunal be granted to him. 

Verification 

I, Prabhu Narain Singh, the petitioner do hereby verify that the contents of 
this petition contained in the paras 1 to 26 and 28 to 33 are true to my personal 
knowledge and those in para. 27 given in pages 13 to 33 are true to my 
knowledge derived from partial inspection of the incomplete records and from 
other sources which I believe to be true. Verified this the 10th day of April ISO? 
in the Civil Court compound, Varanasi. 

Schedule No. 1 

(1) Vehicle No, U.P.L. 3177 Public carrier owned by Shri Ram Sakai Singh, 
Village Dharauli, P.O, Kanta, Varanasi was hired by Shri Bal Krishna respon- 
dent No. 1 and voters were carried on 19th February 1962 from village Savaya 
to Polling Station Blsauli and back. Complaint made to Sector Officer on duty 
and Presiding Officer Blsauli but they paid no attention and encouraged the res- 
pondent No. 1 to continue the said corrupt practices. 

(2) Similarly Jeep No. 2562 owned by Shri Shiva Kedar Singh, village Baraura 
Chakia, Varanasi was hired by respondent No, 1 to carry women voters from their 
village attached to the Polling Station Lehra on 19th February 1962 to the said 
Polling Station and back. 

(3) U.P.L. 3994 stage carriage owned by Shri Ram Arya Ojha, village Phutia, 
Chandauli, Varanasi was also hired by respondent No. 1 and voters were carried 
from the villages attached to Chandauli on 19th February 1962 to the said Polling 
Station and back. 

(4) U.P.L. 600 Private Station Wagon owned by Sm. Prema Bhuipur, Varanasi 
was hired by respondent No. 1 and voters were carried by the agent of respondent 



Sec 8(h)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1619 


No 1 on said vehicle from the villages attached to the Polling Station Baburi 
and back 

As far as possible the following list of voters carried on vehicle as alleged 
above arc given below 


1. Shn Madho 

2 Gann S hanker. 

3 Sri Sukali 

4 Rukmlni 

5 Buggu 

6. B icnni 

7. Sukhnandan 
8 Sin 

9. Birbal 

10. Bttdal 

11. Bachani 

12. Ki shore 

13. Sarju 

14 Chulsa 

15 Kumar 

16 Bagesari 

1 7 Gokul 

18 Gobmd 
19. Sukhram 
20 Deo Narain 
21. Samratlu 
22 Maktila 

23. Bechan 
24 Ramdulan 
25. Rupa 

26 Dhancshra 

27 Bulihari 

28 Munshi 

29. Shivnandan 

30. Dallu 

31 Narkanday 

32. Sumari 

33. Fakiran 
34 Pyari 

35. Baijnath 

36. Muneshra 
37 Gajadhar 

38. Nam)i 

39. Muneshra 

40. Tona 

41 Khunkhun 

42. Dassi 

43. Ramhasi 

44. Nahdei 

45. Gopi 

46. Ram Lai 

47. Ramkunwar 

48. Bhaguai 
49- Kajju 

50 Budhmani 
51. Arjun 
J2. Basmati 
33. Nantoma 
54 Sugauti 
5J. Bishnath 
56 Manai 
57. Mangra 

58 Gopal 

59 Kanhai 

60 Ramjatti 

61 Dhankepra 

62 Ramdai 

63 1 akhpatti 

64 Sunan 
6s Surnati 
66. Basantia 


67 Kcdar 

68 Phulpati 

69 Kumari 

70 Bhnluni 

71 Sun in 

72 Shiva Naram 

73 Samiaihia 

74 Ram Ganesia 

75 Kulvantia 

76 Lachnunu 

77 Changur 

78 Ram Sunder 

79 Maruchia 

80 Paudharln 

81 Nanhak 

82 Udasi 

83 Dcomurat 

84 Nankesra 

85 Bhagwanti 

86 Kashinath 

87 Jagarntth 

88 Aliyann 

89 Ram nareflh 

90 Rama 

91. Jagrani 

92. Sumitra 
93 Phulhan 

94. Zahuran 

95. Mangarl 

96. Rajkalian 

97. Phulan 

98. Dukhm 

99. Sumari 

100 Tulsi 

101 Sursatl 
102. Shyamkaran 
103 Ramdhani 
104. Ttlakdhari 

105 Gaun 

106 Sumari 
107. Mantorna 

108 Sobhnath 

109 Salik 
no, Ragho 
in. Umrthi 

112. Thingtu 

1 13. Shiva Kumar 

1 14. Samji 

1 15 Kumari 

1 16. Gopal 

1 1 7. Smarathi 

1 18 Dhankunn 

1 19 Shrimvas 
120. Surat 

121 Pujan 

122 Budhm 
123. Sumari 
124 Phulbasia 
I2*s Goma 

126 Kaulpatti 

127 Jokhani 

128 Chaneshri 

129 Lachia 
130, Punia 

131 Tetra 

132 Riikaha 



1620 the GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962/vAtfAKHA 22 , 1*84 [Part II 


133. Mukha 

205. Halvaldar 

134. Lalla 

206. Ltlji 

135. Surahi 

207. Giria 

136. Patiraj 

208. Munarmani 

137. Omkar 

209. Scnbarta 

13M. Mahadeo 

210. Singhari 

139. Surews 

21 1, Bhutan 

140. Mahadeo 

212. Manika 

141. Sami 

142. Sonkali 

143. Sughra 

144. Kashi 

14;. Sita 

146. Ramdhar 

147. Amardeo 

148. Muneshwar 

233. Phulmati 

214. Phulbasi 

215. Kasturba 

216. Mangari 

217. Muneshwar 

218. Dudhnath 

219. Phulnath 

220. Mekhuri 

149. Ramii 

221. Atarbas 

150, Bhagwani 

222, Ramji 

15 1. Tetra 

223. Lachman 

152. I.ilaw'.ti 

224. Bharat 

153 - Rama 

228. Mangai 

154. Musrfir 

226. Samwa 

155. Bechana 

227. Sahdco 

156. Mulnkruji 

228. Muneshwari 

157. Hajari 

229. Muniya 

158. Ram karan 

230. Mukhram 

159- Sobha 

231. Chhotu 

160. Jangi 

232. Chunia 

161, Saniya 

233. Suthag 

162. Baiju 

234. Kabutera 

163. Kauli 

238. Sukhram 

164. Kalia 

2r6. Cudani 

165. Chura 

237. Ramdasi. 

166. Dulari 

238. Bangi 

167. Santu 

239. Jangi 

168. Phekni 

240. Badri 

169. Shi vena til 

241 . Dwarika 

170. Manjhari 

242. Phakeni 

171. Jagropan 

243, Ram Dulari 

172, Same 

244. Madhava 

173. Kulwanti 

24;. Jajdamba 

174- Ujagir 

246. Faraad 

175 - Sumitra 

247. Sakai 

176. Ramrati 

248. Gange 

177. Bhagmani 

249. Bhapwan 

178. Pyare 

2<o. Sudin 

179. Kalawatl 

2ji. Sukhdei 

180. Markandey 

252. Daahrath 

181. Kunwar 

253. Parasuram 

182. Kish ore 

254. Pakhandi 

183. Sursati 

255. Chakhur 

184. Marachl 

256. Batha 

185. Dhanukrsji 

186. Jemima 

257. Tagannath 

258. Bukbu 

187. Sursati 

188. Jadunath 

259. Dukhu 

260. Kharpattu 

189. Aditya 

261. Raja 

190. Achalbar 

262. Ramkhusi 

191. Chandar 

263. Ballar 

192. Heera 

264. Girja 

193. Hankunwaxa 

265. Bihari 

194. Kabutari 

266. Bulara 

19;. Chanda 

267. Dhonda 

196. Hanika 

268. Nand Kishore 

197. Sahijad 

269. Bechana 

198. Dhunan 

270. Jahrani 

199. Markandey 

271, Churan 

200. Anrudh 

272. Jokhana 

201. Shivadhani 

273. Sama 

202. Manika 

274. Laid 

203. Maya 

275, Phcrantu 

204. Subedar 

276. Chedulli 




Sec. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 1962/VAISAK.HA 22, 1884 


1621 


278. Bansu 
2 79. Phulwaria 

2 80. Shy am Lai 

2 81. Cherai 

282. Lachiya 
2 83. Ladi 

284. Jasam 

285. Chedi 

2 86 . Sulian 

287. Basuli 

288. Samu 

289. Chauthi 
3oo. Faudl 
3ox. Blthalu 

302. Putai 

303. Jagannath 

304. Balloo 

305. Ramdas 

306. Tengari 

307. Budhu 

308. Misri 

309. Dukhi 

310. Deonandan 

311. Mithai 

312. Sahdeo 

313. Teemal 

314. Bandeo 
3IJ. Teemal 

3 1 6. Kapilmuni 

317. Huani 

318. Dargahi 

319. Pannar 

320. Sahdeo 

321. Badri 

322. Ram Chandar 

323. Shyamsundar 

324. Bal Ruchi 
323. Kripa Shanker 

326. Harihar 

327. Badii 

328. Bhola 

329. Dulari 

330. Sharda 

331. Kailash 

332. Ram Sevak 

333. Chura Devi 


334. Nihal 

335. Natwar 

336. Basmati 

337. Samvanti 

338. Kalpnath 

339. Jagarnath 

340. Ram Naresh 

341. Prabhavati 

342. Sharda 
343 • Patti 

344. Daya 
345- Aliyar 

345. Bhrijunath 

347. Bansropan 

348. Sursati 

349. Kamla 

350. Bairangi 

351. Sahrangi 

352. Manikraj 

353. Rnorangi 

354. Sloka 

355. Rajjan 

356. Ram Ra) 

357. jagrani 

358. Tengri 

359. Bhulan 

360. Ramvantl 

371. Clihabaraji 

372. Foujdar 

373. Sahodaia 

374. Hauldar 

375. Malti 

376. Bijai Bahadur 

377. Bachhan 

378. Prabhavati 

379. Ram Naresh 

380. Punjabi 

381. Radhey 

382. Dulari 

383. Ganesh 
384- Sita 
383. Radhey 

386. Jagardco 

387. Hccra 

388. Lokcnath 


Pbabhlt Narain Singh, 

Verification 

I, Prabhu Narain Singh the petitioner do hereby verify that the contents of 
this Schedule, pages 1 to 7 are true to my knowledge derived from enquiries 
made and no part of it is false, Verified this the 10th day of April 1902 in the 
Civil Court compound, Varanasi. 

Schedule No. 2 


Schedule showing the list of Polling Officials were deputed at the same place 
where had they been working 


Serial 

No. 


Name 

Address 

Polling Station 
where posted. 

1 

Shri 

Rama Murat 

Master Primary School , Baubat- 
pur. 

27, Baubatpur, J.H. 
school. 

2 

JJ 

IKamal Tewari 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

3 

» \ 

[Raghubansh Mani Singh 

Master Primary School, Parewa 

29, Parwea Pry. School 

4 

M 

Babunandan Lai 

Do. 

Do. 

5 

» 

Ramparickan Singh 

Master Primary School Rampur 

32 Rampur School. 

6 

33 

Chinta Mani Pandey . 

Do. 

Do. 



1622 the GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKIIA 22, 1384 [Part II 


Serial 

No. 


Name 

Address Polling Station 

where posted. 

7 

Shri Rajani Ram 

Master J.H. School Barahani 

33, Barahani J.H. 
School, 

8 

J3 

Narrendey Shukla 

Do. 

Do. 

9 


Ram Charan 

Do. 

Do. 

10 

?3 

Nargad Singh 

Do. 

Do. 

II 

)) 

Raghunath Singh 

Master Primary School, Rewasa 

35, Rewasa Primary 
School. 

12 

)J 

Karpath Ram 

Do. 

Do. 

t3 

33 

Chirai Singh 

Do. Amra 

27, Primary School, 
Amra. 

14 

9> 

Ambika Singh 

Do. 

Do. 

ij 

99 

Chandrika Pd. 

Do. Asna 

41, Primary School, 
Afina. 

16 


Hardeo Singh 

Do. 

Do. 

17 

99 

Sudama Singh . 

Do. Paikushi 

43, Primary School 
Paikushi. * 

18 

99 

Ramjan Dubey 

Do. 

Do. 

19 

99 

Ram Bachun 

Do. Jalalpur 

45, Primary School, 
Jalalpur. 

.20 

19 

Guru Prasad . . Do. Do, 

Mahaich Assembly Constituency Chandauli Parliamentary Constituency, 

21 

22 

Shri Matiullah Khan 

Master J.H. School, Anati 

Do. 

17:, J.H. School, Anati 
Do. 

23 


Alakhanarain 

Do. 

Do. 

25 

99 

Dharamdco Singh 

Master Primary School, Dabaria 

19, S. School, Da- 
baria. 

26 


Ram Awadh Pandey , 

Do. 

Do. 

27 

99 

Rum Sprat Pandey 

Master Primary School, Madho- 
pur. 

21, Primary School, 
Madhopur. 

28 

91 

Jhari Ram , 

Master Primary School, Madhupur Do. 

Do, 

29 

93 

Raghubanash Ram 

Master Junior High School, 
Kamalpur. 

123, Junior High 
School, Kamalpur, 

30 

93 

Ram Pharsingh 

Do. 

25, Do.. 



Hardeo Pandey . 

Do.— 

Do. 

32 


Ram Kuval Upadhya 

Do. 

Do. 

33 

H 

Mali Singh 

Master Primary School, tsanari 

27, Primary School, 
Bahari. 

34 


Nand Kishore Lai 

Do. 

Do. 

35 

'9 

Bhoolan Singh 

Master Primary School, Negura 

28, Primary School 
Negura. 

36 


Musai Ram 

Do. 

Do. 

37 


Shahhnath Misra 

Master Primary School, Negura 

29 Do. 

38 


Hafrzullah Ansari 

Do 

Do.. 

39 

7 ’ 

Hunuman Upadhya 

Master Primary School, Khadan 

30, Primary School, 
Khadan 

40 

33 

Chaniradip Awastlii . Do. Do. 

Mughal Sarai Assembly Constituency Chandauli Parliamentary Constituency. 

41 

Shri Madan Mohan 

Master Primary School, Niamta- 
had. 

2, Niamtabad Primary 
School. 

42 

,, 

Bhagrati Tisari 

Do.. 

Do. 

43 

1 3 

Murari Prasad 

Master Primary School 
Pachokher 

4 Pachokher Primary 
School. 

44 


Moti Prasad 

Do. 

Do. 

45 

'3 

Mohd. Jaki 

Muster Primary School, Bhapari 

6, Bhapari Primary, 
School. 

46 


Nand Kishore 

Do. 

Do. 

47 

7 7 

Jagut Narain Singh 

Master Primary School, Sarna 

7, Primary School, 
Sarna. 

48 

91 

SarjaPd. . 

Do, 

Do. 



Sec. 8(1IJ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 12, I962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 1623 


Address 


Polling Station 

where posted. 


49 Slid Mohd, Saleem . 

50 „ Abdul Gaffar 

51 „ Subhan Husain . 

52 „ Aftab Ahmad 

53 „ Maula Bux . 

54 „ Rahmat Ali 


. Mister Junior High School, Ali- 21, Junior High 

nagar. school, Alinagar. 

, Do. Do. 

, Do. 30, Primary School, 

Patpara. Putpara. 

, Do. Do. 

. Mauler Piimary School, Kalesar 40, Primary School 

Katesai . 

. Do. 39, Primary School, Kat- 

csar. 


55 

9) 

Harish Charan 

. Master Primary School, Chandosi 

42, Chandosi. 

56 

3 3 

Babban Singh 

Do. 

Do. 

57 

13 

Bahrain Prasad 

Master Primary School, Ch- 

49, Chandrakha Pri- 



andrakha. 

mary S chool. 

58 

>3 

ChiranjiPd. 

Do. 

Do 

59 

3' 

Nijamuddin. 

. Master Primary School, Dahia 

51, Primary School, 




Dahia. 

,60 

O 

Kalloo Ram 

Do. 

Do. 



Ch.ikia Assembly Constituency ChanJausi Parliamentary Constituency. 

61 

35 

Ram Moorati Singh 

Head Master Primary School, 

Primary School, 


Kodachaki. 

Kodachaki. 

62 

"3 

Ram Pd. Tripathi 

Assn. Master Primary School, 

Do, 



Kodachaki. 


63 

33 

Jagpat Tripathi 

. Head Master Primary School, 

3, Primary School, 



Kudru. 

Kuura. 

64 

33 

Raj Nath Lai 

. Asstt, Do. 

Do. 

(15 

1 

Salig Ram . 

. Master Prrniary School, Garhwa 

4, Primary School, 




Garhwa. 

66 

33 

Chandra Dhar Lai 

Do. 

Do. 

67 

33 

Bhagwan Upadhya 

Master J. High School, 

6, Sikanderpur North 



Sikanderpur. 

Primary School. 

6K 

93 

Bhagwati Pande 

Do. 

Do, 

69 

33 

Sripati Tnpalhi . 

. Master J. H School, Sik- 

7, Sikanderpur Prim- 


anderpur. 

ary School. 

70 

33 

Ram Kuber Misra 

Do. 

Do. 

71 

39 

Blnn Raj Pd. 

Mast'i Primiry School, Bhikham- 

B, P'-innry School, 


pui 

Bhikhnmpur. 

71 

34 

Vibhuti Narain . 

Do. 

Do, 

73 

3 3 

Bans Deo Lai 

. Master primary School, Lalliia 

12, Latliia Kala Pri- 



mary School. 

74 


Ramji Diwidi 

Asstt, Do. 

Do. 

75 

93 

Hari Shanker Lai 

. Head Master J.H. School, Siiar- 

13, Sitarganj HothJ 



ganj 

Maharaja Saheb. 


Daya Shanker Lai 
Sankatha Pd. 

Rant Kumar Diwidi 
Akshai Bar Pandey 

Sheomurti Singh 
Sheo Faj Singh 

Radha Shyam Chaube 
Lok Nath Singh 

Sheo Bodh Chaub 
Ram Autar Lai 

Ram Pd. Singh . 
Shcrda Chaube . 

Jai Mangal Yadava 
Ganga Pd, Singh 


Asstt. Do. Do. 

Master J.H. School, Sitar- 14, Do. 

ganj Do. Do, 

Head Master Primary School, 15, Nawabgan) Prim' 
Nawabganj. ary School, 

Asstt. Do. Do. 

Master Piimary School, Sultanpur 4, Suhanpur, Primary 

School. 

Do, Do. 

Master Junior High School, 5, Junior High School 
Danganj. Danganj. 

Do, Do. 

Master Junior High School, 6, Danganj Junior High 


Danganj. School. 

Do. Do. 

Master Primary School, Roop 9, Roop Chandpur 
Chundpur. Primary School. 

Do. Do. 

Master Primary School, Tilma- 10, Tilmapur. 
pur. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, I962/VAI3AKH A 22, 1884 [Part II 


Serial Polling Station 

No. Name AddrcsB where posted. 


90 

Shri Madho Singh 

. Master Primary School, Tilmapur. 10, Tilmapur 

91 


Ram Shankcr Ram 

Do. 

ii. Primary School* 



Do. 

Tilmapur. 

9* 


Mahendra Pratap 

Do. 

Do. 

93 

V 

Bananarain Singh 

. Master Primary School, Bhopapur 16, Bhopapur. 

94 


Shreenath Singh 

Do. 

Do. 

95 


Jangali Pd. 

. Master Primary School, Sheo 

23., Sheorampur. 



Rampur. 

96 


Sheomangal Pathak 

Do. 

Do, 

97 


Pannoo Pd. 

. Master J.H. Cholapur 

37, Cholapur J. High 



School. 

98 


Ram Surat Singh 

Do. 

Do. 

99 


Srlnath Pande 

Master Primary School, Umraha 

45, Primary School, 


Umraha. 

100 


Dwarika Pande . 

Do. 

Do. 

10 1 


Taruni Kumar 

. (Presiding Officer) Panchayat 
Raj Inspector Panchayat Office 

50, Primary School, 
Dight (Chandauli). 




Dighi (Chandaull). 

102 


S.B. Singh 

. Clerk Do. 

Do. 

103 

JJ 

Ram Chiranjiva 

. Secretary Do. 

Do. 

104 


Sankatha Prasad 

. S ecretarv Do. 

Do. 

105 


Badri Prasad 

. Peon Do, 

Do. 

106 

13 

ParaB Nath M>sra 

. Master P. School Dighi Chandauli 50 P. School Dighi 


The above Instances are only illustrative and this Schedule can be added to 
in vast numbers hereafter. 

IDJRTTm 

Verification 

I, Prabhu Narain Singh the petitioner do hereby verify that the contents of 
this Schedule pages 1 to 5 are true to my knowledge derived from enquiries made 
and no part of it is false. Verified this the 10th day of April 1962 in the Civil 
Court compound, Varanasi. 

jpfnrpr®r 

Copies of this petition is hereby attested by the petitioner under his own 
signature to be a true copy of the petition. 

[No. 82/221/62.] 
By Order, 

C. B. LAL, Under Secy., 


New Delhi, the 3rd May 1962 

S.O. 1376. — -Whereas the election of Shri Surendranath Dwivedi as a member 
of the House of the People from the state of Orissa from the Kendrapara Parlia- 
mentary constituency, has been called in question by an election petition presented 
under Part VI of the Representation of the People Act, 1961 (43 of 1951) by 
Shri Banbehari Mohanty, son of late Rangadhar Mohanty, resident of village 
Mantirl, P.O. Sunguda, P. S. Salipur, District and Munsiffl Cuttack, Orissa. 

And whereas the Election Commission has caused a copy of the petition to 
be published in an official gazette and has served a copy thereof by post on each 
of the respondents under sub-section (1) of section 68 of the Representation of 
the People Act, 1951 (43 of 1951); 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 86, 87 and 88 
of the said Act, the Election Commission hereby appoints Shri Brij Mohan Lall, 
a retired* as the member of the Election Tribunal for the trial of the said petition 
and Bhubaneswar as the place where the trial of the petition shall be held. 

•Judge of the High Court at Allahabad. 


[No. 82/54/62.1 




Sbg. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAK.HA gg, 1884 


S.O. 1377. — In pursuance of sub-rule (5) of rule 89 of the Copduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the name ofthe person shown 
in column 1 of the Schedule below who haVihfTTSeen a contesting candidate for 
election to the House of the People from the constituency specified in the cor- 
responding entry in column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, in accord- 
ance with the decision given today by the Election Commission under sub-rule (4) 
of the said rule, failed to lodge any account of his election expenses and will 
accordingly become subject to the disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the expiration of two months from- 
the date of the said decision. 


Schedule 


Name of contesting candidate 

Namo of contltuency 

1 

2 

Shri Sangavva Post Jagtial 

Karimnagar, 

District Karimnagar, 


Andhra Pradesh. 


[No. AP-HP/37 / 02( 1 ) .] 


S.O. 1378. — In pursuance of sub-rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the name of the person shown 
in column 1 of the Schedule below who having'- Been a contesting candidate for 
election to the House of the People from the constituency specified in the cor- 
responding entry in column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, in accord- 
ance with the decision given today by the Election Commission under sub-rule (4) 
of the said rule, failed to lodge any account of his election expenses and will 
accordingly become subject to the disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of 
the Representation of the People Act, 1651, on the expiration of two months from, 
the date of the said decision. 


Schedule 


Name of contesting candidate 

Name of contltuency 

1 

2 

Shri J. Venkatesham, 

Secunderabad. 

0-7-181, Bansilalpet, 


Secunderabad, 



[No. AP-HP/32/62(2) /36719.J’ 


S.O. 1379.— In pursuance of sub-rule (5) of rule 89 of the_Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby notified the name of the person shown 
In column 1 of the Schedule below who having been a contesting candidate for 
election to the House of the People from the constituency specified In the cor- 
responding entry in column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, in accord- 
ance with the decision given today by the Election Commission under sub-rule (41 
of the said rule, failed to lodge any account of his election expenses and will 
accordingly become subject to the disqualification under, clause (c) of section 7 or 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the expiration of two months from 
the date of the said decision. 


Schedule 


Name of contesting candidate 

Name of contltuency 

1 

2 

Shri Kommareddl Bapayya 

Swatantra Party Office, Eluru. 

Eluru, 


[No. AP-HP/ll/62(3)/ 36713.1; 











1626 ‘I he GA/FTTF OF INDIA MAI 12, 19U V4lbAkrlA 22, 1M4 [Part II 


New Delhi, the 4th May 1962 

SO. 1380 — In pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 86 of 
the Representation ol the People Act, 1961 the Election Commission hereby pub- 
lishes a copy of the Election Petition No 1 ->0 of 1962, presented to the Commis- 
sion on the 11th April, 1962 under section 81 of the said Act, by Shri Harikishore 
Singh son ol Shri Jugal Kishore Singh, village & P O Chamanpur P S Sheohar, 
Pistnct Muzaffarpur, calling in question the election to the House of the People 
from the Pupri constituency of that House of Shri Shashi Rnnjan Prasad Sahu, 
son of Shri Matuk Prasad Sahu village & PO Rajkhand, P S Katra, District 
Muzaffarpur 


IN THE COURT OF ERECTION TRIBUNAL, 


Through 

The Election Commission of India, 

1, Aurangzeb Road, New Delhi 

Election Petition No 130 of 1962. 

In the matter of an election petition under section 80 and 81 ol the Represen- 
tation of the People Act 1951 


AND 

In the matter of an election petition challenging the election of 13 Pupri par- 
liamentary constituency of The House of the People. 

AND 

In the matter of Shri Harikishore Singh son of Shri Jugal Kishore Singh, 
village and PO Chamanpur, PS Shcohui, District Muzaffarpur (Bihar)— 
Petitioner 

Versus 

1 Shri Shashi Ran] an Prasad Sahu, on of Shri Matuk Prasad Sahu, village 
and P O Raikhand P S Katra District Muzailarpur (Bihar) 

2 Shu Nasiruddm Ilaidai Khan son of Md Yakub Khan, resident of village 
Parsaum Jahilbar PO Paisauni, Mahilbai PS Belsand District Muznffarpur 
(Bihar) 

1 Shri Jogcndia Prasad Singh, son of Shri Tnmuna Singh, resident of village 
Morsand P S Saidpur, District Muzailaipur (Bihar) 

4 3m 1 immm Prmad son of Shi I Dhodha Singh resident of village Rampur, 
P S Saidpur District Muzaffarpur I'Bihar)— Respondents. 

The humble petition on behalt of the above named petitioner 
Most respectifully sheweth — 

(1) That for the election of the member of the Parliament from Pupri con- 
stituent of the House of the People the following diffeient dutes were fixed 
by the authorities — 

Date for llling nomination paper from 1 1th January 1962 to 20th January 
1962 

Date lor the scrutiny of the nomination papers— 22nd January 1962 

Date for withdrawal of the Nomination — 25th January 1962 

Date for polling — 21st February 1962, 23rd February 1962 and 25th Feb- 
ruary 1962 

dat for counting of Ballot papers— 26th February 1962, 27th Fcbruaiy 
1962 and 28th February 1962 

Date on which the result was announced — 1st March 1962 

(2) That all together candidates mentioned below, filed their nomination 
papers before the Returning Offleor for the said election 

(I) Sri Harikishore Singh (On behalf of P S P ) 

(II) Sri Shashi Raman Prasad Sahu (On behalf of Congress) 

(ill) Sri Nasuruddln Haidar Khtn (On behalf of Swantantra Party) 

(iv) Sri Jogendra Prasad Singh (On behalf of Socialist Party) 

(v) Sri Thakur Prasad Singh (Independent) 

(vl) Sri Pawan Kumar Thakur (Independent). 



“Sec. 3(ii)J THE GA7ETrE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 19C2/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


(3) That the nomination papers of all the above candidates were accepted 
on 22nd January, 1982 by the Returning Officer. 

(4) That one of the candidates Sri Pawan Kumar Thakur withdrew his can- 
didature and hence there was a contest between the remaining five candidates. 

('>) ’1 hat after the counting the respondent No. 1 was declared elected on the 
1st March, 1962. 

(G) That the election of Respondent No. 1 is illegal and void and fit to 
be set aside. 

(7) That the respondent No. 1 has got a firm in his name styled as S, Ranjan 
and Brothers for contract business. 

(8) That since the respondent No. 1 is joint with his other two brothers named 
as Shri Raiani Ranjan and Kumud Ranjan they all have got joint interest in 
the said firm but the work of the firm is mainly managed by the respondent 
No. 1 and his 2nd brother Shri Rajani Ranjan and his son Shri Kartik Kumar, 

(9) That the Respondent No. 1 himself, through his firm M/s. S, Ranjan and 
Brothers and through his brother Rajani Ranjan has got several contracts with 
the Central Government which are still subsisting. 

(10J That the Respondent No. 1 himself, through his firm M/s. S, Ranjan Sc 
Brothers and his broth, r Shri Rajani Ranjan has got contracts with Central 
P.W D. Food Storage Division, P. & T. Division, Civil Aviation Division and 
other divisions for construction of Government Food Godowns at Muzaifarpur, 
Telephone Exchange Mam building Mu/adarpur, Aerodrome and Patahi (MuzaH- 
arpurj, External service at Patna Aerodrome etc. and the above contracts were 
subsisting at the time of the nomination and election of the Respondent No, 1. 

(11) That the Respondent No. 1 has got several other diiert and indirect 
contracts with different depai talents of the Central Government which had been 
subsisting at the time ol his election and are still subsisting 

(ID That the Respondent No. 1 was disqualified under section 7(d) of Re- 
presentation of the People Act, 1951 to he chosen to fill the seat. 

(13) That the nomination paper of respondent No, 1 was improperly accepted 
which has materially affected the result ol the election. 

(14) That since the respondent No. 1 was clearly disqualified to be a can- 
didate for the said election, the votes cast in hit favour were all wasted voles. 

(la) That the petitioner having got the highest valid votes should be declar- 
ed a* duly elected candidate. 

(16) That the petitioner has deposited Rupees 2.000 as security money in 
favour of the Election Commission for the cost of the petition under section 117 
ol the Representation of the People Act Challan of which is enclosed herewith; 

It is, therefore, prayed that your honour may be pleased to ru ml this peti- 
tion, call lor the records of the case and after hearing the pui-.cs be further 
pleased to declare the election ol the respondent No 1 to he void and also 
pleased to declare the petitioner to be duly elected or pass any other order or 
orders as your honour may deem fit and proper. 

And for this the petitioner shall ever pray. 

Dated the, 9th April 1962. Hari Kishohe Singh. 


Verification 

I, Harikishore Singh, son of Shri Jugal Kisbore Singh, village and P.O. 
Chamanpur, PS Sheohar, District IViuzaftarpur do hereby verify at Patna on 
the 9th of April, 1962 and declare that th - contents of the paragraphs 1, 2, 3. 4, 5, 
7 8 12 13 14, and 16 of the election petition are true to my knowledge and 

that of paragraphs 9, 10, 11 are partly true to my knowledge and partly based 
on rehable information believed to be t tie and that of paragraphs 6, 15 are sub- 
mission to the Court, 

Dated the, 9th April 1962, 


Hari Kisiiore Singh. 
[No. 82/130/62.] 



1628 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 19 n 2 /VAlSAKHA 22. 1884 [I>AiiT 1IT 


S,0. 1381. — In pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 86 of 
the Representation of the People Act, 1961, the Election Commission hereby pub- 
lishes a copy of the Election Petition No. 294 of 1962, presented to the Com- 
mission on the 14th April. 1962. under section 81 of the said Act, by Shri Ram- 
asrcy Pd. Chaudhary, son of Babu Chhatradhan Chaudhary, deceased of village 
and P.O. Keonta, District Darbhanga, calling in question the election to the 
House of the People from the Samastipur constituency of that House of Shri 
Satya Narain Slnha, son of Shri Beni Pel. Singh of village Shambhupatti, P,S. 
Samastipur, District Darbhanga, 

Petition Under Sections 80 anp 81 of the Representation of Peoples 

Act, 1951 

BEFORE THE ELECTION COMMISSION, NEW DELHI 

An election petition under Article 329 of the Constitution of India read with 
sections 80 and 81 of the Representation of the Peoples Act, 1951. In respect of 
the election to the Lok Sabha (House of People) from 16-Samastipur Parliamen- 
tary constituency in tbe Darbhanga District of the State of Bihar, held on 18th,, 
21st, 23rd, and 25th of February, 1962. 

Election Petition No. 294 of 1962. 


Between: — 

Shri Ramasrey Pd. Chaudhary son of Babu Chhatradhari Chaudhary, deceased! 
of village and P.O, Keonta of Darbhanga District. An elector in 103, Dalsing- 
hsarai West Assembly constituency and candidate for 16 Samastipur Parliamen- 
tary constituency to the House of People. 

Versus 

1. Sri Satya Narain Sinha, son of Shri Beni Pd. Singh of village Sham-- 

bhupattl P.S. Samastipur Distt. Darbhanga Returned Candidate— Res- 
pondent. 

2. Sii Rajendra Mahto, son of Shri Janakdhari Mahton of village Patepur 

Goplnath P.O. Gighra District Darbhanga— Defeated candidate — 
Respondent. 

3 . Sri Banarsi Pel. Sah son of Shri Sarjug Sah of village end P.O. Naya- 

nagar in the district of Darbhanga— defeated candidate— Respondent. 

4. Sri Hemant Kumar Chaudhary son of Sri Ramasrey Pd. Chaudhary of 

at and P.O. Dalsinghsarai Distt. Darbhanga — Retired candidate — Res- 
pondent. 

5. Rejeshwar Patel son of Sarjoog Patel village Akhtiarpur P.O. Chan- 

daull District Darbhanga — Retired candidate — Respondent. 


The humble petition states as follows: — 


1 That the petitioner is an elector, his name, being included in the electoral 
roll for 16, Semastipur Parliamentary constituency in serial No. 1 from village 
Keonta in Dalsinghsarai West Assembly constituency. 


2. That on 13th January 1962 the aforesaid constituency was called on to 
elect a member for House of People, 20th January 1962 being the last date for 
filling nomination paper. 

3 That the petitioner. Died his nomination paper on 18th January, 1962 and 
respondent No. 1, respondent No, 2, respondent No. 3 and respondent. 4 and 5 
also filled their nomination papers. 

4 That the nomination paper of the petitioner along with the respondents, 
were declared valid by the Returning Officer, Darbhanga. 


5 That this petitioner was the candidate, on behalf of the Swatantra Party 
nf Tiidia whereas respondent No. 1 was candidate, on behalf of Congress Party, 
resnonde’nt No 2 was candidate, on behalf of Praja Socialist Party, respondent 
No 3 was’ candidate on behalf of socialist party, and respondent No. 4 and 5 
were independent candidates, who withdrew their candidature. 


6 That during the election the respondent No. 1 and respondent No. 2, their 
workers and party members made speeches falsely indicting the Swatantra party 
as a party of Raias and Maharajas and Zamindars trying to take back the Zamin- 
darl and establish their tyrannical rule oyer the tenantry. Respondent No. L 



.'Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 1962/VAISAK.HA 22, 1884 


1629 


and his workers and party men exhorted to muslim voters inhabiting the con- 
stituency to vote for the congress on the ground that they are only safe in the 
.hands of the congress. They also canvassed vote on ground of castlsm. On many 
diflerent occasions they also delivered speeches making false imputation to the 
Swatantra Party as also to this petitioner. The instances, date, time and persons, 
making speeches are enumerated in Annexure A herein below annexed. 

7. That the congress party workers agents of respondent No 1 distributed 
to the knowledge and connivance of the respondent No. 1 leaflets casting heinous 
arid false aspersions on the character of this petitioner and made false imputa- 
tions against this petitioner’s whole family. Instances of such leaflets are 
enumerated in Annexure B herein below annexed. 

fi. That respondent No, 1 got printed one booklet of song namely JAWANE- 
KI- HAWA ( ddT) written and published by Sri Ramdeo Singh of 

village Khajuri in P.S. Samastipur in the District Darbhanga containing bitter 
songs against Swatantra Party and their leaders in village dialect. The agents 
anr: workers of Respondent No. 1 distributed this booklet in the whole of con- 
stituency and all the songs were sung on loudspeakers. One particular instance 
Is on ihc occasion of Sri Jawahar Lai Nehru visit on 15th February, 19G2 at 
Samastipur and inciting communal feeling in Hindus and creating hatred against 
'Swatantra Party. This pamphlet also falsely said that this party will take back 
Zamindari This book is mentioned in Annexure C herein below annexed. 

9. That corrupt practices were employed during election by the congress and 
the workers, agents of respondent No. 1 to his full knowledge and such corrupt 
practices are enumerated in Annexure D here, is annexed. 

10. That the voters were given temptations to vote for Respondent No. 1 and 
one such temptation was given to voters at village Chandsuri in Dalsinghsarai 
P.S., where R spundenl No 1 promised to have bridge over river Baluahi construct- 
ed. And in fulfilment to that promise respondent No. 1 laid down the foundation 
stone of the bridge on 8th February, 1982 and addressed a large meeting request- 
ing electorate to vote for him as he construct the bridge at his own cost. And 
other inducements offered by Respondent No. 1 or on behalf of Respondent No. 1 
are enumerated in Annexure D herein below annexed. 

11. That during election Government vehicles and Government requisitioned 
vehicles for election duty were used hr respondent No. 1 for carrying people 
to the places where election meetings were held on behalf of respondent No. 1, 

f articularly on the occasion of Prime Minister’s visit at Samastipur on 15th 
ebruary, 1962 in connection with the election camDaign on behalf of Respon- 
dent No. 1 and on that date the use of Government vehicles and Government re- 
quisitioned vehicles for election duty for carrying people from Dalsinghsarai to 
■ Samastipur and registration number of such vehicles are given In Annexure E 
herein below annexed, 

12. That the Government Railway employees were working for canvassing 
vote for respondent No. 1 with his full knowledge. Namely Sri Lalbahadur 
Chaudhary and Braj Kishore Jha both passengers guides posted at Samastipur 
only for this purpose, Sri Ramkripal Singh guard and Sri Birbahadur Singh, 

* clerk of D.T.S. office, Samastipur were also utilised by Respondent No. 1 for his 
election work. And all the four workers of Respondent No, 1 took leave from 
' the Railway, The post of passenger guide was only created to accommodate Sri 
Lai Bahadur Chaudhary, and Brajkishore Jha resident of this constituency, so 
that they may work for respondent No. 1 

13, That secrecy of ballot were not maintained by recording ballot paper 
serial No. against the name of elector in the copy of the electoral roll set apart 
for the purpose by the Polling officer, due to this very practice Respondent No. 1, 
his election agent Sri Purshottam Pd. Singh and others use to canvass to the 
voters that if they did not vote for the Respondent No. 1 they would be in a 
position to know as to what they did as they were ruling party. That due to 
■ this thing In practice and propaganda the people out of fear that the secrecy of 
voting will be known to respondent No. 1. The electoral dared not to go against 
him. So the rule framed under the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961, section 
38(2) is ultra vires and infringes the constitution of voting by secret ballot. 

14. That on Booth No. 34, M.E. School, Dalsinghsarai on 21st February, 1962 
1 Congress Party flag was used within 100 yards of the above booth and canvassing 
■ were made by workers of Respondent No. 1 within 100 yards of the Polling booth. 



I630 the GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 12, 1%2'VAIiAKllA 22, 18 «t [Part If 


Sri Devi Pd. Agrawal hired rickshaw for carrying voters, he was also polling-agent 
for Repondent no. 1. " 

15. That on booth No, 33 in National High School on 21st February 1962 at 
Dalsinghsarai Sri Satyapal Mishra Polling agent ot Respondent No. 1 hired rick- 
shaw for carrying voters and this matter was reported to the Presiding Officer 
of that booth, for that application he also refused to grant receipt at the instiga- 
tion of Sri J. Pathak, Anchal Adhikari, Dalsingsami. On this booth also 
National M. E. school was open, which is in the same compound and workers of 
Respondent No. 1, took advantage oi this and canvassed vote within the compound 
of that school. On the same day that is on 21st February, 1962, Sri Ramakant 
Singh, and Sri Gobardhan Bhai Patel hired 60 rickshaws for carrying voters on 
booth Nos. 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, and 30, of Samastipur 
East Assembly constituency. On that very day Sri Sitaram Pankaj hired 26 
rickshaws for Dalsinghsarai town booth No. 33, 34, 36, 36, from Samastipur. 

16. That Booth No. 48, and 49, on 21st February, 1962, in Gram Panchayat 
Bhawan Sahlt in Dalsinghsarai west Assembly constituency, the above booths 
weie located just by the side of Congress Parliamentary election office located 
in the Gaddi of Sri Moshaheb Mahto. For this, objection was raised at the time 
of selection of polling-booth, There they used to collect voters and canvass for 
their votes which was within 100 yards of the booth. The congress flag was 
also used on that day within 100 yards of the above booths. For which Sri 
Shilwant Kumar Chaudhary, election agent of Sri Ganga Pd. Dass, a candidate 
from 103 West Dalsighsarai Assembly constituency filed objection to the respec- 
tive Presiding officers. 

17. That on 23rd February, 1962, in Uda Hat Portable booth in Samastipur 
West Assembly constituency minorities were threatened at the point of revolver 
by Sri Purshottam Pd. Singh, election agent of Respondent No. 1, and Sri 
Sitaram Pankaj a worker of Respondent No. 1. And for this authorities were 
informed, No challenge of votes were entertained by the Presiding Officer and 
Sri Yadu Chaudhry a Polling agent of the petitioner was threatened by the 
Presiding Officer, Zonal Magistrate, Shri J. Pathak, election-agent of Respon- 
dent No. 1, and he was compelled to leave the booth. Similarly the Polling- 
Agent of Respondent No, 2, were also threatened and were compelled to leave 
the booth. Bogus votes were polled. The Presiding Officer used to get the 
voters identified by the Polling agent of Respondent No. 1. All these incidents 
were reported to the Returning Officer, Samastipur. 

18. That the account, submitted by the Respondent No. 1, and Respondent 
No. 2, is also wrong and incorrect. The Respondent has left many expenses in- 
curred by him— Respondent No, 1, has spent more than the limit fixed by the ■ 
law. 

19. That the petitioner has deposited a sum of Rs. 2,000, only in the Govern- 
ment treasury in favour of Secretary, Election Commissioner, New Delhi Bfl 
security to the cost of the election petition. The treasury receipt being No. 9 
dated 11th April, 1962, is attached herewith. 

That the result of the election of the petitioner has been materially effected 
by the above mentioned corrupt and illegal practices committed by Respondent 
No 1, and Respondent No, 2, and through their agents to the knowledge of Res- 
pondent No. 1, and Respondent No. 2, with their connivance. 

In view of the facts set forth above it may be declared that the election 
of Respondent No. 1, is void and be set aside and it is further Pray- 
ed that further declaration be given that the petitioner himself has 
been duly elected or any respondent, other than respondent No. 1, 
has been duly elected. 

Sd,/- Ramasrey Prasad Chaudhary, 

11th April, 1962. 


Verification 


I Ramasrey Pd, Chaudhary, do hereby solemnly declare that the above 
statements of this petition are true to the best of my knowledge and belief. 


Sd./- Ramasrey Prasad Chaudhary, 
11th April, 1962. 



Sec. 3(ii)l THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1RR4 ^31 


Annexuee A 


X 

19-1-62 

Kishanpur Thana Congi css Committee . 

Sn Satyanaram Smgh Respondent 
No. 1. 

2 

20-2-62 

Belari, Pataili, Siripur Gahar Pcthm 
Rahua, Barhetta, Nagargarm, Jalalpur . 

Pt, Hannath Mishra on behalf of 
Respondent No. 1. 

3 

25-1-62 

Throughout the Constituency 

Sri Lakshmikanl Jha Yotsh 1 2 3 

M.L.C. 

Shashikant Jha on behalf of 
Respondent No. 1. 

4 

25-1-62 

to 

25-2-62 

Ditto. 

Balgohid Mahto, Ramrachha 

Mahto Banwati Mahto, Jitu 
Mahto, Gayanchand Mahto, 
Jaddunandan Mahto, Ramjcc 
Mahto on behalf of Respondent 
No. 1 & 2. 

5 

29-1-62 

V. Narghoghi ..... 

Sri Satyanarain Singh. 

6 

8-2-62 

to 

12-2-62 

V. Nagarvasti ..... 

Satmalpur 

Mathurapur & Other places . 

Shah Umair M.P. 

7 

11-2-62 

Dalsinghsarai M.E. School ground 

Satyanarain Smgh, Satyapat 

Mishra, Ramgovind Nayak, 
Rameshwar Smgh, Babulal 
Surekha. 

8 

Ditto. 

V. Sahit 

Sri Satyanarain Singh, Suresh 
Chandra Tiwari, Rameshwar 
Smgh, Satyapal Mishra. 

9 

7-2-62 

Samastipur ..... 

Sri Jagjiwan Ram. 

10 

1-2-62 

to 

7-2-62 

Ditto. 

Sri Jaiar Imam. 

Ex.-Law and Jail Minister. 

II 

2-2-62 

In Sahitganj . 

Dr. Syed Mohemmad M.P. 
Kutipara 

Hussainashool compound. 

12 

15-2-62 

Samastipur 

Prime Minister 

13 

8-2-62 

V. Bochha Mow. .... 

Sri Rajendra Mahto 


Annexure B 

1. Kisanpur Majdoor Bhaiyo Sabdhan, by thana congress committee; 

Dalsinghsarai, Printed by Pravat Press, Samastipur. 

2. Kalka Kukarmi, as Sadhu ke Vesh me by Dalsinghsarai ke Khista Ka 

Nagrik. 

3. Babu Satyanarain Singh— Se meri Koi Sikayat nahi by Sibnandan 

Singh Pagra, printed by Prabhat Press, Samastinur and many 
others. 1 I 


Annexure C 

1. Jawane ki hawa written and published by— Ramdeo Singh V. Khajurh 
P.O. Ghataho, Darbhanga, printed by Sri Rambnajjan Press, 
Samastipur. 

Annexure D 

1. Hiring of bullock carts for carrying voters by Polling agents of Respon- 

dent No. 1 and 2, on almost all booths. 

2. Bribery to Harijans for giving votes to Respondent No. 1, on the 17th,. 

20th, 22nd, and 24th’s night of February, 1902, by Respondent No. 1, 
Election-agent, and Polling agents of Respective areas. 

(i) Ganga Paswan -village Paghra. 

(il) Pancha Lai Mehtar village Kalyanpur. 

(iii) Padumkant Jha, Kalyanpur. 

(iv) Ramautar Rai, Kalyanpur, 
fv) Mahabir Rai, Chora Tabhaka, 



1632 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAIiAK.HA 22. 1884 [Part II 


(vi) Jamun Sada-Balkishunpur, 

(vii) Khakhar Paswan — Khan Mlrjapur. 

(vlii) Jugal Thakur — Ajnoul. 

(ix) Ramkhelawan Chaudhary, Ashinchak and others. Inducement offered 
by Respondent No. 1, his agents and by Baleshwar Ram at present 
Parliamentary Secretary, Bihar. 

1. Promotion of U.P. school Malpur, P.S. Dalsinghsarai to M.E. school. 

2. Re-opening of Dhepura L.P. school. 

3. Application to M.E. school, Simari. 

4. Grant-in-aid to Bazidpur Bombaiya M.E. school. 

5. Promise of raising of M.E. school, Kalyanpur to H.E. school. 

6. Grant to Mathurapur M.E. school. 

7. Donation to Chansurai Library by Respondent No, 1. 

Annexure E 

On _ 15tln February, 1962, plying of Government vehicles for carrying people 
from Dalsinghsarai to Samastipur for Prime Minister election meeting, 

B.R.H. 1380 

B.E.H. 5241. 

B.R.H. 8668 

and on the same day and for the same purpose the following vehicles were used 
which were requisitioned for election Duties. 


B.R.R. 

7685. 

B.R.R. 

6743. 

B.R.R. 

6457. 

B.RR. 

157. 

B.R.R. 

6040. 

B.R.N. 

4020. 


Sd./- Ramasrey Prasad Chaudhary, 
11th. April, 1962. 


Verification 

I, Ramasrey Pd. Chaudhary, do hereby, declare that the above statements of 
this petition are true to the best of my knowledge and information, 

Sd./- Ramasray Prasad Chaudhary, 
11th April, 1962. 


Affidavit 

I, Ramasrey Pd. Chaudhary son of Babu Chhatradhari Chaudhary, deceased of 
village and P.O. Keonta of Darbhanga District, aged about 66 years, do hereby 
solemnly affirm as follows: — 

1. That I am the applicant in this case. 

2. That the contents of this election petition are true to the best of my 
knowledge, information and belief. 

Sd./- Ramasray Prasad Chaudhary, 

11th April, 1902. 

[No. 8V294/02.] 

S.O. 1382, — In pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (11 of section 86 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 195], the Election Commission hereby publishes 
a copy of the Election Petition No. 321, of 1962, presented to the Commission on 
the 16th April, 1962, under section 81 of the said Act, by Shri Vishwanath N adav 
Tamaskar, Advocate, Durg, Tahsil and District Durg, Madhya Pradesh, calling 
in question the election to the House of the People from the Durg constituency of 
that House of Shri Mohanlal Bakliwal, son of Shri Premsukh, shop-keeper, Durg, 
Tahsil and District Durg, Madhya Pradesh. 



Sf.c, S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INniA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAK.HA 22, 1884 1633 


BEFORE THE ELECTION COMMISSIONER, NEW DELHI 
Election Petition No. 321 of 1962 

Vlshwanath Yadav Tamaskar, Advocate, Durg, Tahsil and District Durg, 
(M.P.) . — Petitioner, 

' Versus 

1, Mohanlal Bakliwal, son of Premsukh, Shop Keeper, Durg, Tahsil and Dist- 
rict Durg. 

2, Nandlal Sharma, son of Pandit Harishchandra Sharma, R-561, Shankar 
Road, New Delhi. 

3, Namdas, son of Ghondul, by profession Agriculturist of village Mura, Tahsil 
and District Raipur, M.P. — Respondents. 

Petition under section 81, of the Representation of People Act, of 1961, for 
challenging the election of Respondent No. 1, who has been declared elected as 
a Member of the House of People from Durg Parliamentary Constituency No. 19, 
in Durg District and for declaring the Petitioner as duly elected Member instead. 

The case of the Petitioner is as under: — 

1. That there has been a general election all over the country (,e., Bharat for 
election of Members to the House of People in the year 1962, 

2. That the Schedule of Election was as under: — 

(i) Notice of Election, 13th January, 1962. 

(ii) Filing of Nominations, 13th January, 1962 to 20th January, 1962. 

(iii) Scrutiny of Nomination Papers, 22nd January, 1962. 

(iv) Withdrawal of Nomination Papers, 25th January, 1962. 

(v) Elections in the Constituency, 19th February, 1982 and 24th February, 
1962. 

(vi) Declarations of the result, 28th February, 1962. 

3. That Shri R. N. Chopra, I.A.S., Collector, Durg, was appointed ns Returning 
Officer, Durg, for conducting the elections in the District. 

4. That five persons filed their Nomination Papers for this Parliamentary 
Constituency, viz., (1) Vishwanath Yadav Tamaskar, (ii) Namdas, (iii) Mohanlal 
Bakliwal (iv) VishwaraJ Singh, and (v) Nandlal Sharma. 

After the scrutiny, they were declared as validly nominated candidates (vide 
Ex*A.l). But before the date of withdrawal, Shri Vishraj Singh withdrew his 
nominations. Thus, leaving the Petitioner and the respondents as the only con- 
testants (vide Ex *A.IT). 

5. That on 28th February 1962, in the counting of votes, Shri Mohanlal Bakliwal 
of Durg was declared to have been duly elected to fill the Parliamentary Seat, 
securing 88,639 votes. The other candidates secured votes as under: — 

(a) Vlshwanath Yadav Tamaskar— 59,671 (P.S.P.). 

(b) Namdas — 24,173 (Republican). 

(c) Nandlal Sharma — 39,798 (R.R.F ). 

The total number of rejected votes were 13,051. The total number of vofes 
validly polled, 2,12,181 ( Vide Ex. A, II). 

Being aggrieved by the said Election, the Petitioner flies this Election Petition: — 

5. (a) That, in the texture of the Durg Parliamentary Constituency there are 
very many Harijan (Satnami) voters who are n.ot normally amenable to the 
Influence of Satnami Head of Chhattlsgarh Division and mostly, subscribed to the 
Republican creed. As such, it was almost positive that these votes might have In 
all certainty gone to the Petitioner, They could not go to Ram-Rajya candidate, 
the respondent No, 3 Respondent No. 1, therefore, sensing this position managed 
to set up a Harijan candidate from the Republican Party who could cut down 
the votes of the Petitioner from Satnami Community. He, therefore, through 
his Congress workers and his agents, made Namdas stand so that he might 


'Not printed, 



1634 TI1E GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 19f2/VAI3AK.llA 23. 1884 [Part II 


reduce the number of votes likely to be obtained by the Petitioner from Republi- 
can Satnamis and promised that he i.e., respondent ISTo, 1, would do some good 
turn at Bhilai Steel Project either for service or for Mining contract, Namdas, 
thus, contested as a candidate of the Republican Party and secured 24,173. 

5. (a) (2). That Namdas never for once stood in the Constituency, nor did 
he meet people of the Constituency, nor did he advertise his candidature in the 
Constituency. He had come only to fill in the form, and thereafter, he never 
took any interest in the election. He was, therefore, a dummy set up by res- 
pondent No. 1 to divide the Petitioner’s votes. Namdas, respondent No. 2, had 
also stood from Arang Constituency, in the Raipur District. 

5. (a) (3). That the respondent No. 1, through his agent Shri Rom Narayan 
Purohlt, the permanent Secretary, Madhya Pradesh Congress Committee, Bhopal, 
got one pamphlet published In the Shree Press of Bhopal purporting to be 
addressed from Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru to Shri Mohanlalji Bakliwal, respondent 
No. 1. It is Ex. *AIII, 

5. (a) (4). That the respondent No. 1, Mohanlal Bakliwal not being satisfied 
with the leaflet containing the blessings of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, got another 
pamphlet published from Laxmi Press. Raipur, through the same agency l.e., Shri 
Ram Narayan Purohlt, permanent Secretary of Madhya Pradesh Congress Com- 
mittee Bhopal, purporting to be from the "Pradhan Mantry, Pandit Jawaharlal 
Nehru’’. It purported to bear the date 19th February 1962. 

5 . (a) (5). That the Durg Municipal Urban area and the entire Bhilai area 
was comprised In Durg Parliamentary Constituency. The speech of Pandit 
Jawaharlal Nehru delivered on 14th February 1962, did not have had the desired 
effect on the electors In the Parliamentary Constituency. The respondent No. 1, 
therefore, got th" alleged blessing and sent the same bv special men to the majority 
of the voters In the Constituency. But he realised that the first appeal will not 
have had the desired effect specially on the Government servants of Durg District 
and Bhilai Steel Proiect area. Therefore, another appeal purporting to be from 
the Pradhan Mantrh Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, was also distributed in the Consti- 
tuency, which the Petitioner humbly submits, did materially affect the result of 
the Petitioner’s election and had the effect of dissuading the voters both Govern- 
ment servants and other voters from voting for the Petitioner to the great extent. 

5. (a) (6). That the respondent No. 1 in making Namdas, respondent No. 2, 
stand for the Par' i amenta r v Seat and {he distribution of the leaflets alleged to 
have been signed by the Prime Minister of India, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, did 
cause enough mischief apd materially cut down the votes of the Petitioner. Res- 
pondent No. 1 reduced the votes of the Petitioner by 24,173 by these methods. 
The result, was that the Petitioner was defeated In the election and got only 
59,071 votes. 

5. (a) (7). That the blessings of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru and the blessings of 
Prime Minister. Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, are Ex. *A,3 and Ex. *A.4 respectively. 
They are filed with the petition. 

0. That the Petitioner has been In public life for the last 30 years and repre- 
sented MP. Legislative Assembly in the years 1937-30. In the first general 
election of 1952, he was elected as a M.L.A. from Beme+sra Constituency, and In 
the year 1957 election, he was elected as a M.L.A. from Durg Legislative Assembly 
Constituency In the Madhya Pradesh. 

7. That the Petitioner had been functioning as a Defarfo Leader of the opposi- 
tion In the New State of M.P. Legislative Assembly at BbopRl, 

8. That the petitioner fought the election on the Praia Socialist Party ticket, 
the respondent No. 1 who has been declared elected for the Durg Parliamentary 
Seat, has entrusted with the task of fighting the prestige seat of Durg Parlia- 
mentary Const'tuencv on congress ticket. The main Plank of attack of the Peti- 
tioner avnfnsf thp congress candidate has been that, that organisation has oblitera- 
ted the distinction between the Government and the Congress Party. 

9. That the Petitioner could have been declared elected, but for the corrupt 
practice committed by the respondent No. 1, and his party-men and his agents 
with his consent. The agent Is Shri Dhanraj Deshlahara. 

10. That the election of the respondent No. J as duly elected Member for the 
Durg Parliamentary Constituency Is liable to be declared void and set aside and 


'Not printed, 



Sec. 5(11)] +h£ GAZfiTTfe OF INDIA: MAY 1?, 1962/VAlSAKHA 22, 1884 1635 


the Petitioner is entitled to be declared to be elected for the self-same Constituency, 
on the following facts and grounds:— 

Grounds 

(i) That the respondent No. 1 circulated the leaflet (*Ex. A.3), purporting to 
be sent by Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru on 19th February 1962. It contained the 
heading "the blessings of Jawaharlal Nehru” to Shri Mohonial Bakliwal, the 
congress candidate from Durg Parliamentary Constituency. In the body, it 
mentioned that “I hope that the electors should vote for respondent No, 1, 
Mohonial Bakliwal and would make him successful. The leaflet was distributed 
amongst the electors by the Provincial Congress Committee and also by the 
Election Organisers of the Durg District Cpngress Committee. 

(ii) That yet another pamphlet was distributed on 22nd February 1962 at 
Durg and Bhilai purporting to be signed by Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru with his 
blessings qua Prime Minister to the respondent No. 1 Mohonial Bakliwal, the 
Parliamentary candidate from Durg Constituency, containing exactly the 
same words as in Ex. A.3. This pamphlet is •Ex.AA. It was directive to the 
electors and more particularly, to the Government servants that the respondent 
No. 1, Mohonial Bakliwal must be made successful. 

(ill) That the Petitioner does not vouchsafe about the genuineness of the origi- 
nals of the leaflets being at all signed by Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru. But assum- 
ing that it has beon done, the use of the words "Pradhan Mantri” in the leaflet 
amounts to use of national symbol or emblem at the election in favour of the 
respondent No. 1 for furtherence of the prospects of the election of the respondent 
No. 1 and for prejudicing the prospects of election of the Petitioner. It also 
amounts to undue influence on the electorates. 

(iv) That the petitioner asserts that th j use of the national symbol i.e., the 
words “Pradhan Mantri” and the name of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru amounts to 
corrupt practice committed by the respondent No. 1 and also by his agents with 
his consent. 

(v) That this conduct of the respondent No. 1 and his agents is nothing short 
of corrupt practice. It is a flagrant and highly objectionable form of use of 
national symbol or emblem. The use of expression "Prime Minister” is use of 
National Symbol. The entire Nation claims to have a Prime Minister in the 
democratic form of Government. Prime Minister is. therefore, a National Symbol; 
It is just like use of Government machinery in favour of a particular candidate, 
The use of prefix "Prime Minister" has been deliberately made to hoodwink the 
mass of subborned Government servants and law abiding mass of electors into 
submission and feeling that some kind of Government farman is issued to which 
they had to pay a homage. 

(vi ) That the Constitution of India requires the allesjence to it through the 
National Symbol, such as, President of India, Prime Minister of India and the 
like. The misuse of the National Symbol, such as the name of the Prime Minister 
has been to create subservience in the minds of the electors in the Constituency 
who are Government servants, pensioners, and other law-abiding electors, the 
like. Pandit Jawaharlal is not the head of the Congress, but is the head of the 
Government of India. 

(vil) That the result of the election has been materially affected as a result 
of the corrupt practice committed by the respondent No. 1 and his agents in 
getting the leaflets (*Ex. A.3 and A.4) mentioned above published through the 
Congress Agency and printed in Shree Press, Bhopal and Laxmi Press, Raipur 
respectively, 

11, That, but for this publication, the Petitioner would hfive easily succeeded. 

(aj That if the respondent No. 1 had not made respondent No. 2, Namdas 
stand as a candidate for this' Parliamentary Constituency Seat on the 
promise that he would get him good position in Bhilai, the Petitioner 
would also have easily succeeded. This corrupt practice is hit by 
section 123 (I-A)(bj sub-section (i) of the representation of People 
Act, 1951, 

(b) That the result of the election being materially affected bv the leaflets 
and the candidature of Namdas, respondent No, 2 at the instance of 
respondent No, 1 ; the election of respondent No. 1 is liable to be 


’Not printed. 


1636 Th£ GAZETTE oE INDIA : MAY 12 , 19G2/VAtsARii A 25, ib«l [Part it 


declared void and set aside under section 100(1) (d) (II) of the Repre- 
sentation of People’s Act, if not under section 100(1) (b) of the same 

Act, 

(c) That the Petitioner has herewith field documents *Ex,A,3 and ^Ex.A.l 
published on" the 19th February 1962 mentioned above, and alleged to 
be signed by Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru and Prime Minister Pandit 
Jawaharlal Nehru which, according to the Petitioner, Is a corrupt 
practice vitiating the election of the respondent No. 1, The details of 
the said document are given as particular duly verified and filed as 
Ex. A. 3 and A, 4 They be treated as forming part of the Petition. The 
other documents also filed along with the Petition be treated as forming 
part of this Petition. 

12. That the Petitioner had deposited a sum of Rs. 2000/- as security for the 
cost as per receipt showing that the amount has been deposited at Durg, on 12th 
April 1962 in favour of the Secretary, Election Commission of India, as security for 
costs of the election Petition as required by section 117 of the Representation of 
People Act, 1951. 

13. That the Petitioner is filing requisite number of copies of this Petition, he 
has also filed the documents as per list. 

It is, therefore, prayed that the election of respondent No. 1 as duly elected 
Member of House of People for Durg Parliamentary Constituency No. 19 from 
M.P., declared by the Returning Officer, Durg, on 28th February 1962, be declared 
void and set aside. 

(ii) That the Petitioner be declared instead as duly elected Member of the 
"House of People” from Durg Parliamentary Constituency No. 19, in M.P., as 
being the only duly nominated candidate, who has not committed any corrupt 
practice. 

(iii) That the declaration be given under section 101 of the Representation of 
People’s Act, 1951. 

(vi) That the costs of the Petitioner be awarded against the respondent No. 1. 

(v) That any other relief which may be deemed just and proper, may also 
kindly be granted. 


Vishwanath Y'adav Tamaskar, 

1 Petitioner, 

Verification 

I, Vishwanath Yadav Tamaskar, the Petitioner, do hereby verify that the 
allegations made in paras 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. 5. (A) (7), 6, 7, 8, 12, 13, are true to my 
personal knowledge and those of paras 5. (a)(1), 5. (A)(2), 5(A)(3), 5. (A)(4), 
5(A)(5), 5(A)(6), 9, 10 (i) to 10(vii), 11(a) (b)(c) are true according to the 
Information received by me and believed to be true. Verified and signed on this 
12th day of April 1962, at Durg, 


Vishwanath Yadav Tamaskar, 
Petitioner, 


Particulars of corrupt practice 

1. Making Namdar stand as a candidate for the Durg Parliamentary Consti- 
tuency No. 19, under a promise by respondent No. 1, 

2. Publication of a leaflet published by' Shree Press, Bhopal, Ram Narayan 
Purohit, Permanent Secretary of the M.P,, Provincial Congress Committee, at 
Bhopal, purporting to be blessings of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru to Shri Mohonlal 
Bakliwal, respondent No, 1. 

3. The publication of a leaflet published by £>hri Ramnarayan Purohit, Perma- 
nent Secretary, M.P., Provincial Congress Committee, at Laxmi Press, Raipur, 
purporting to be blessings of the Prime Minister, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru to 
Shri Mohanlal Bakliwal, respondent No. 1. 


♦Not printed 


Vishwanath Yadav Tamaskar, 





Sec. B(ii)3 tHfi GAZETTE oi' iNDiA : MAY lli, i9fe/VALsAti.HA 22, iiiM 


Verification 

I, V. Y. Tamaskar, do hereby verify that the above particulars are true to 
my information had, and believed by me to be true. Signed this 12th day of 
April 1962, at Durg. 


VlSHWANATH YADAV TAMASKAR. 

I [No. 82/321/62.] 

S.O. 1383. — In pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 86 
of the Representation of the People Act, 1961, the Election Commission hereby 
publishes a copy of the Election Petition No. 322 of 1962, presented to the Com- 
mission on the 16th April, 1962, under section 81 of the said Act, by Shri Om 
Prakash, son of Pandit Ram Sarup, 15 — Dewan Hall, Chandni Chowk, Delhi, 
calling in question the election to the House of the People from the Bhopal 
constituency of that House of Shrimati Maimuna Sultan, near Fire Brigade, 
Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh. 

BEFORE THE ELECTION COMMISSION, NEW DELHI 
Election Petition No. 322 of 1962 

Shri Om Prakash s/o Pt. Ram Sarup, 15-Dewan Ilall, Chandni Chowk 

Delhi — Petitioner. 

Versus 

Mst. Maimuna Sultana, M,P„ near Fire Brigade, Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh 

(Returned candidate) — Respondent. 

Election petition under S. 81, Representation of the People Act calling in 
question the election of the respondent to the House of the People (Lok Sabha) 
from the Bhopal Lok Sabha Constituency No. , at the general elections held 
in February, 1962. 

The petitioner states as follows: — 

(1) The general elections to th? House of the People took place in February/ 
March, 1962, in pursuance of a notification issued by the President of India under 
S. 14, Representation of the People Act, 1951, ior the purpose of constituting a 
new House on the expiration of the duration of the existing House. 

(2) The Bhopal Parliamentary Constituency No. in Madhya Pradesh 

consisted of five Madhya Pradesh Assembly constituencies, namely, Sanchi, 
Budhni, Ashta Bairasia, Bareilly, Bhopal, Naya Bhopal and Sehore. 

(3) The Election Commission, acting under S 30, Representation of the 
People Act, 1951, by notification in the official gazette issued the following elec- 
tion programme. 

(a) 20-1-1962, the last date for making nominations, 

(b) 22-1-62, the date for scrutiny of nomination papers, 

(c) 25-1-62, th: last date for withdrawal of candidatures, 

(d) 19-2-62, the date of poll for Sanchi Assembly Constituency area. 

21-2-62, the dale of poll for Budhni, Ashta, Bairasia, 

23-2-62, the date of poll for Bareilly, 

25-2-62, the date of poll for Bhopal, Naya Bhopal and Sehore. 

(4) The parties to the petition and three oth:r persons, namely, Kumari 
Mohini Devi, Shri Mahipal Pathak and Shri Shiv Cnaran were declared to be 
contesting candidates and a poll became necessary. 

(5) The petition 'r was a candidate for the Hindu Malia Sabha, the respond- 
ent for the Congress and Shrimati Mohini Devi for the Communist Party of 
India, Shri Mahipal Pathak for Bharatiya Jan Sangh and Shri Shiva Charan an 
independent candidate; and they were allotted symbols i.c. Horse and Rider, Two 
bullocks with yoke on, ears oi corn and sickD, Lamp and Lion respectively, 

(6) The poll took place on the appointed dates at’The various polling stations, 
the counting of votes took place on the 27th of February, 1962 of Sanchi 
Assembly Constituency at Raisen, on the 28th February, 1962 of Bareilly Assembly 
Constituency at Raisen, on the 26th February, 1962 of Bairasia and Budhni 



k 5 3 8 f Hi GAzEfffe OF iSTlllA : WAV 1 2, i 962/VA ts AktiA 22, lsu4 [Part It 


Assembly Constituencies at Sehore, on the 27th of February, 1962 of Ashta and 
Sehore Assembly Constituencies at Sehore and of Bhopal and Naya Bhopal 
Assembly Constituencies at Sehore. 

(7) According to the declaration of results announced on the 28th February, 
1962, the particulars about voting for the Constituency arc these: — 


Total Electorate 

5,18,346 

Total Votes for Polling Stations 

2,36,088 

Rejected votes 

8,796 

Valid votes 

2,27,292 

Om Prakash 

63,898 

Mahipal 

38,211 

Maimoona Sultana 

83,204 

Mohini 

34,010 

Shivcharan 

and the respondent No, 1 was declared as elected. 

7,969 


(8) The respondent No. 1 has been guilty of the corrupt practices of undue 
influence [S, 123(2)1, Appeal on the ground of religion [S. 123(3)], the publica- 
tion of a false statement of fact in relation to the personal character of the 
petitioner and in relation to his candidature [S. 123(4)] and the hiring or procur- 
ing of vehicles for the conveyance of voters TS. 123(5)]. 

(9) Particulars of the corrupt practice of undue influence arc stated below: — 

The respondent’s husbund, Mr, Mujtaba, is the Executive Officer of the Munlcl- 
jal Board, Bhopal and held that post during the period of the election. By 
virtue of his position, he was able to exercise, and actually exercised, undue 
Influence on voters by showing or promising to show favour to them or by hold- 
ing out threats of various kinds to take action against others. 

He authorised his overseers to pay a sum of Rs. 60,000 towards payment of 
outstanding bills of or as advances to contractors of the Board to influence their 
votes and to persuade them to canvass for the respondent amongst their 
employees and labour force. This was done contrary to rules without the requi- 
site previous sanction of the Board by a resolution, 

Certain unauthorised persons, the poorer folk, had been in occupation by 
squatting without any permission or authority on land belonging to the Board, 
near Gumbux Talaiya. Proceedings for their dispossession had been taken 
earlier but had been dropped or kept in abeyance On the eve of the elections 
fresh notices were issued and action thereon was suspended after the respond- 
ent’s husband acting through members of his subordinate staff, had successfully 
influenced the votes of those poorer folk. 

In doing all these acts and engaging in all these activities he. Mr. Mujtaba. 
acted with the consent of the respondent and as her agent. 

(10) A poster (*Annexurc A) was published and widely distributed amongst 
the electorate on the eve of the election in open places and at meetings held to 
further the respondent’s election in various parts of the Constituency with the 
consent and at the instance of Shri Amarchand Rohilla election agent of the 
respondent. 

The said poster purports to have been published by one Shaukgt Bhopali who 
acted as the respondent’s agent and active supporter during llie election, He 
had been seen actively canvassing for her and he invariably always attended 
and addressed public 'meetings convened for or on behalf of the respondent’s 
election. 

The said poster was intensively distributed at a Congress election meeting 
held on 23rd February, 1962 at about 8 or 9 P.M. in Motia Park, Subzimandi, 
Bhopal City, which was attended and addressed by important Congress workers. 
Dr Shanker Dial, then Education Minister of Madhya Pradesh State and Shri 
Govind Sahai may be particularly mentioned. Dr. Shanker Dial had engaged 
himself in active campaign to support the respondent’s candidature as her agent 
and canvasser throughout the period of election. 

The said poster In so far as it criticises the Communists as denying God, the 
holy prophets, the clay of resurrection, etc,, is an appeal on the ground of religion. 
References to verses from Muslim holy scriptures lend th- appeal a religious 
halo. It contains a direct appeal to with-hold all contact, co-operation and sup- 
port on the ground of religion. 




Sf.c. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


i<?39 


The said poster was issued, published and distributed by and with the consent 
of the respondent’s election agent for the furtherance of the prospects of the 
election of the respondent. The circumstances outlined here prove the commis- 
sion of the corrupt practices of undue influence and appeal on the ground of 
religion. 


(11) (a) Dr. Shankar Dial Sharma, Education Minister, agent and a great and 
active supporter of the respondent, with the consent of the respondent, indulged 
in publication, through speeches in public meetings,, of false statements of facts 
which he either believed to be false or did not believe to be true in relation to 
the personal character of the petitioner and in relation to the candidature, beir" 
a statement calculated to prejudice the prospects of the candidate’s election. 

In public meetings held at Station Bajaria, Bhopal, on the 20th February, 1962 
on 21st February, 1962 at Mangalvara, Bajaria and Shahjahanabad, Bhopal, and 
on 23rd February, 1962 at Imami Gate, Dr, Shankar Dial in his speeches repeated- 
ly made the following statement: — 

“The Petitioner has entered into a secret and unholy conspiracy with the 
Communist candidate for Bhopal Assembly seat. Shakir All and 
Communist Candidate Mohinl Devi have been set up as candidates to 
Parliament for dividing Muslim votes, and making Petitioner’s elec- 
tion safe. As a part of this conspiracy, the Petitioner bullied and 
threatened Shri Udhavdas Mehta, Hindu Sabha leader of Bhopal and 
coerced him to contest election from Bhopal Assembly Constituency 
as a dummy of the Communist Candidate to the Assembly.” 

(b) The Congress Party issued a poster, Bulletin No. 10, 'Bhopal Chunao 
Darpan’ (Reflection of Bhopal election in the mirror) (Annexure B). It was 
Issued to further the prospects of Congress candidates for the Assembly and 
Parliamentary seats from the Bhopal area at their instance and with their con- 
sent. This bulletin was circulated amongst the electorate at the Instance of the 
respondent’s election agent by her workers and other ordinary persons available 
on ordinary wages. The pamphlet was distributed in public meetings held on 
the 20th February, 1962, 21st February, 1962 and 23rd February, 1962 held at 
Station Bajariya, Mangalwara, Bajaria and Imamigale, Bhopal respectively by 
Pritnviraj, Radheshyam, Ram Kishan. 


The said bulletin contains false aspersions on the personal character of the 
petitioner by imputing dishonourable conduct to him. It is also false in relation 
to his candidature In referring to an unholy pact between the Communists and 
the Hindu Mahasablia candidates. Its publication was calculated to prejudice and 
it actually prejudiced the election prospects of the petitioner. 

(c) In engaging all the aforesaid activities and other activities of similar 
nature, Dr. Shankar Dial on account of his connections with Bhopal Constituency 
acted as the agent of the respondent. Alternatively he was certainly a person 
who engaged in these activities with tha consent and approval of the Respondent. 

(12) Particulars about the corrupt practice of hiring vehicles for the convey- 
ance of voters: 

(1) Truck No. M.P.B, 4004 was procured to carry voters from village 
Babai to Amravat polling station and from village Barba to Bari 
Khurd polling station on 23rd February, 1662, during and before the 
polling hours. Name of the proprietor: Badri Prasad s/o Mundri 
Lai of Badi. 


(2) Lady voters of Bairagarh Kalan were carried back to their village in 

a bus arranged by Congress Workers at 4-00 p.m. 

(3) On 26th February, Congress candidate and his agent used the follow- 

ing vehicles for bringing their volers at polling stations at Bairagarh. 


M.P.B. 3673 
M.P.B, 3007 
M.P.B. 2810 
M.P.B. 159 
M.P.B. 1536 
M.P.B. 2638 
M.P.B. 3746 
M.P.B, 1948 
M.P.B. 1548 
M.P.B. 1524 
M.P.B. 4575 
M.P.B. 1195 
M.P.B. 2783 




1640 THE GAZETTE OF TNDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VATSAKHA 22, 1884 [Part II 


Protest against this was made to the presiding Officers on the polling day 
giving the number of vehicles. 

(13) The said election of the respondent is liable to be declared void on 
account of the Commission of corrupt practices mentioned in paragraphs (8) to 
(12). 

(14) Bhopal Treasury' Receipt No. 3, dated 9th April, 1962, relating to the 
deposit of two thousand rupees as security for costs of the petition to satisfy the 
requirements of S, 117, Representation of People Act, 1961 is attached herewith. 

(15) An affidavit in form 26, required by R. 94- A, Conduct of Election Rules, 
1901, relating to the allegations of corrupt practice is also attached herewith. 

(18) The petitioner was a contesting candidate at the election and is entitled 
to present and maintain this election petition, 

(17) It is, therefore, prayed (1) that the election of the respondent to the 
House of the People from Bhopal Parliamentary Constituency No, at the general 
elections held in February, 1902 may be declared void, (2) that election against 
Shri Amar Chand Rohilla, respondent’s election agent, and Dr. Shanker Dial, 
above mentioned, may be taken under S, 99, Representation of the People Act, 
1961 and appropriate orders passed, and (3) costs of the petition may be award- 
ed against the respondent. 

(18) The result of election, declaring the respondent to be duly elected was 
announced by the returning officer on 28th February, 1962. The last day of 
limitation falls on 14th April, 1962. That day and 15th April, 1962 are public 
holidays on which the office of the Election Commission is closed. It is presented 
on 10th April, 1962 and is within limitation in view of S. 10, General Clauses Act. 

Your humble petitioner, 

(Sd.) Om Prakash, 

12-4-02 


Verification 


Verified that the contents of clauses (1) to (7) and (14) to (10) are correct 
to the best of my knowledge and clauses (8) to (16) and (17) are correct to the 
best of my belief, this 12th day of April, 1982 at Delhi. 


Attested to be true copy. 

(Sd.) Om Prakash, 

12 - 4 - 02 . 

[No. 82/322/62,] 


New Delhi, the 5 'th May 1962 

S.O. 1384 .— In pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 80 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, the Election CSmmlSslon hereby publishes 
a copy of the Election Petition No. 318 of 1962, presented to the Commission on the 
16th April, 1902, under section 81 of the said Act, h"y Shri Rilli Chamar son of 
Shri Sunne Chamar, resident of Ward No. 6, Naraiya Muhal, Tikamgarh, calling In 
question the election to the House of the People from the Tikamgarh constituency 
of that House of Shri Kure Mate son of Shri Adku, Resident of Chamrola, District 
Tikamgarh. 

ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA. 

I NEW DELHI. 


Election Petition No. 318, 1902. 

Under Section 81, of the Representation of the People Act, 1951. 

Rilli Chamar s/o, Sunne Chamar, aged 33 years Ward No. 6 Naraiya 
Muhal, Tikamgarh (M.P.L— Petitioner. 

I Vs. 

Kure Mate s/o. Shri Adku r/o Chamrola District Tikamgarh (M.P.).— Res- 
pondent. 

The humble Petition of the above named Petitioner respectfully sheweth as 
follows: — 

1 That it having been decided to hold a General Election for the purpose of 
constituting a New House of the People on the expiration of the duration of the 



Sec. 3(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 1962/VA1SAKHA 22, 1884 


1641 


then existing House, the President by notification published in the “Gazette of 
India” on the 30th January, 1962, was pleased to call upon all Parliamentary 
Constituencies (other than those within the States of Kerala and Punjab and 
the Union Territories of Delhi and Himachal Pradesh) in pursuance of the pro- 
visions contained in Sub-Section (2) of Section 14 of the Repcsentation of the 
People Act, 1951, to elect Members in accordance with the provision of the said 
Act, and the Rules made thereunder: — 


2. That in the State of Madhya Pradesh, Tikamgarh is a (Reserved Scheduled 
Caste) Parliamentary Constituency No. 5. 

3. That the Election Commission by Notification published in the Official 
Gazette elated the 13th January, 1962, in exercise of the powers conferred by Sec- 
tion 30, of the Repesentation of the People Act. 1951, appointed: 


(a) the 20th January, 1962, as the last date for making nominations; 

(b) the 22nd January, 1962, as the last date for the scrutiny of the nomina- 

tions: 

(c) the 26th January, 1962, as the last date for the withdrawal of Candi- 

datures; and 

(d) the 31st March, 1962, as the last date before which the Election was to 


be completed; 

And with respect for the Election by Tikamgarh (Reserved Scheduled 
Caste) Parliamentary Constituency No. 5, February^ 20th, 21st, Z2na 
and 24th as the last date for taking the Polls in different Legislative 
Assembly Constituencies comprised within the said Parliamentary 
Constituency. 

4. That the Petitioner is and was at all material times an Elector enrolled as 
Serial No. 434, of the Electoral Roll 1961, relating to Tikamgarh Assembly Con- 
stituency which forms part of Tikamgarh Parliamentary Constituency. 


5. That the Petitioner is a Member of Chamar Caste which is a Scheduled 
Caste In relation to the Districts of Datia, Tikamgarh, Chhatarpu:, Panna, batna, 
Rewa, Sidhi and Sahdol of the State of Madhya Pradesh. 


6. That the Petitioner is and was at all material times fully qualified to be 
chosen to fill a reserved Scheduled Caste Seat In the House of the People as 
provided in the Representation of the People Act, 1951. 


7. That in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 21 of the Representa- 
tion of the People Act, 1951, the Election Commission appointed the Collector, 
Tikamgarh as the Returning Officer of the said Constituency. 


8. That the Petitioner delivered and caused to be delivered according to the 
provisions of Section 33, of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, three 
nomination papers on the 18th and 20th January, 1962. the Returning Officer for 
the Tikamgarh Parliamentary Constituency duly ailed in and completed in the 
prescribed Form and signed by the Petitioner and by the Electors of the C n- 
stituency as proposers. 

The Petitioner also made a declaration in all of his nomination papers that, 
he is a member of Chamar Caste which is a Scheduled Caste In relation to the 
Districts of Datia, Tikamgarh. Chhatarpur, Panna, Satna, Rewa, Sidhi and Sahdol 
of the State of Madhya Pradesh. 


9. That the petitioner had also deposited Rs. 250 in cash on 18th January, 
1962, with the Returning Officer for Tikamgarh Parliamentary Constituency. 

10. That besides the Petitioner, the Respondent and five others namely, 
Kamoda. Balrnm Das, Ghanshyam, BhaivB Lai and Ram Deen had also presented 
their nomination papers to the Returning Officer, Tikamgarh, Shri, Balram Das 
Chamar was the recognised Candidate of the Congress Party and the Petitioner 
was also a Candidate of the said Party. 

11. That on the 22nd January, 1962, the said Shri Kamoda Chamar, made an 
Application to the Returning Officer supported by an Affidavit that the said Shri, 
Balram Das belonged to Jatav Caste which he had not mentioned in his declara- 
tion for being a Member of Scheduled Caste and that Jatav Caste was a separate 
Caste which was not a Scheduled Caste for Tikamearh, Datia. Chhatarpur, Panna. 
Satna. Rawa, Sidhi and Sahdol Districts of the State of Madhya Pradesh anc? 
that Balram Das had concealed his own / " , nste Jatav 




THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 [Part II 


12. That the Returning Officer heard the Counsel of Shrl Balram Das and 
Kamoda Chamar. On behalf of Shri Balram Das it was stated before the Re- 
turning Officer that the Balram Das was a Chamar by Caste in the Area concerned. 

13. That the learned Returning Officer held that Jatav was regarded as Dis- 
trict Sub-Caste of Chamar but it has not been included in the list of Scheduled 
Caste for the Districts of Former Vindhva Pradesh Region and that the alterna- 
tive mentioned in the list were exhaustive. 

He further held that the Scheduled Caste as listed in the President’s Order 
must be related to the Geographical Area in which the person resided. Outside 
that Area he could not be recognised as a member of any Scheduled Caste. 

14. That the learned Returning Officer did not consider the decision of an 
F.lortion Tribunal holding that it was based on the Schedule of a different Order. 
He also did not give any weight to a Caste Certificate of the Collector Chhatar- 
pur dated the 20th June. 1956, issued to Shri Balram Das to the effect that he 
belonged to Scheduled Caste of the District recognised as Scheduled Caste in the 
Constitution (Scheduled Caste) Order 1950, (Part C- State) Order 1951. 

15. That the learned Returning Officer rejected the nomination papers of Shri 
Balaram Das and he declared the Petitioner, the Rcsnondcnt and Shri Kamoda 
and Bhalya Lai and Ram Deen as Validly nominated Candidates for the Elec- 
t' _ n 

10 That Shri Bhaiya Lai and Shri Ram Deen withdrew their Candidatures on 
Ihe 25th January, 1902, and the Petitioner the Rr-snondcnt and Kamoda were de- 
clared as the constesting Candidates for the said Election. 

17 That Polls for the said Election were held on the notified dates and as a 
result of the Election the Respondent was declared elected as a member of the 
House of the People for the said Constituency. 

18. That the total number of Voters for Ihe Election was 450501. out of which 
221529 valid Votes were Polled and 14966 Votes were rejected. The Respondent 
obtained 97647 Votes Shri Kamoda obtained 66359 Votes and the Petitioner got 
57555 Votes. 

19. That the Petitioner submits that the Election of the Respondent is void 
under Section 100 (1) 1C) of the ReDresentation of the People Act. 1951, and 
files this Petition challenging the validity of the Election on the following 
grounds: — 

(a) 


(b) 


(c) 

(d) 

(e) 


(f) 

'E) 


Because Shri Balram Das belonged to the Chamar Caste which is a 
Scheduled Caste in the District of Datia. Tikamgarh, Chhatarpur, 
Panna, Satna, Rewa, Sidhi and Sahdol. 

Because at Nowgong within the District of Chhatarpur the place at 
which Shri Balraip Das resides, Jatav is not a separate Caste from 
the Caste of Chamar. The terms Jatav and Chamar are synonymous 
included in the Chamar Caste in the Area. 

Because Shri Balram Das did not belong to any Jatav Caste known as 
separate and distinct Caste from the Chamar Caste In the Area. 

Because the nomination papers of Shri Balram Das had been impro- 
perly rejected, 

Because the Returning Officer was not competent to hold an enquiry 
about actual Caste of Shri Balram Das and he ought to have accept- 
ed the declaration made by him in the nomination papers as correct. 
Shri Balram Das had completed the nomination m the prescribed 
Form and such Order of the Returning Officer rejeding the ' nomina- 
tion paper of Shri Balram Das was in excess of his jurisdiction. 

Becauce the nomination paper of Ghanshyam was also improperly re- 
jected. 

Because on the date of his Election the Respondent was disqualified for 
membership of Parliament as there subsisted a Contract ontrro into 
in the Course of his Trade or ■business by him with the P.W.D. irri- 
gation Department Madhya Pradesh Government for the execution 
of the work undertaken by the Government for the Construction of 
the Hira Nagar Bawri Tank Agreement No 16. 17, and 18, of 1959 
tn If) no 



3*c, 5(ii)j THE GAZETTE or INDIA: MAY 12, 1962, VALSAEilA 22, 18S4 


1643 


(h) Because the nomination paper of the Respondent was improperly accept- 

ed which materially effected the Election of the Respondent. 

(i) Because the Respondent and his Agents induced the Electors of the 

Constituency to Vote for the Respondent on the basis of Communa- 
lism committing the corrupt practice of undue influence which pre- 
vailed throughout the constituency some of the particulars are set 
forth in Annexure thereto. 

(.j) Because the Respondent and his Agents and supporters induced the 
Electors to Vote for Respondent on the promise of providing services 
and lands for them. 

(k) Because the Respondent, his Agents and supporters procured persons 

•who were not Electors to Vote for the Respondent and thus improper 
Votes were received which materially affect the Election of the Res- 
pondent. 

(l) Because ut Chandera Polling Station in the Lidhura Assembly Con- 

stituency some Voters were not allowed to Vote and had to go away 
whereafter some others Voters were allowed to Vote and thus Votes 
were refused which materially affects the Election of the Respon- 
which materially affects the Election of the Respondent, 
dent. 

(m) B ‘cause wide spread undue influence prevailed throughout the area of 

the Tikamgarh, Jatara, Lidhaura Legislative Assembly Constituencies 
within the Parliamentary Constituency and the Respondent obtained 
Votes by undue influence which materially affect the Election of the 
Respondent. I 

(n) Because the respondent, his Agents and supporters requested the 

electors to vote or refrain from voting on communal grounds. 

( 0 ) Because the respondent, his Agents and supporters procured the assis- 
tance for the furtherance of the prospects of the election of the res- 
pondent of persons in service of the Government, namely Patwaries 
and Chawkidars and other Police Officers. 


Prayer 

20. It is therefore prayed that the election oi the Respondent be declared void 
with costs. 

Tikamgarh. Petitioner. 

Dated 11th April, 1962, 

(Rilli S/o. Sunne ChabMxar, 
Nuraiya Mohalla, Tikamgarh). 


Verification 


I Rilli S/o, Sunne R/o. Tikamgarh, this day the 11th April, 1962, at Tikamgarh 
verify that the contents of the petition para 1 to 20 and the particulars para 1 to 
7 annexed thereto have been written at my instructions and are true to my per- 
sonal knowledge and on information received from my Agents and supporters, 
which I believe to be true. 


Tikamgarh. 

Dated lltli April, 1962. 


Rilli Charmkar, 


PARTICULARS OF CORRUPT PRACTICES 

1. That Shri Laxmi Narayan Naik Candidate for Legislative Assemblv for the 

P.S.P. from Lidhaura Assembly Constituency with others of his Party as the 
Agents and Supporters of the Respondents got Pamphlet published nnev of which 
attached to the effect to Appeal to Ahcrwar Chamars tu lur the Bosun ndent 

on the Communal basis. 

2. That Shri Parwat Ahcrwar Sub-Inspcetor of Mohan Garh in the Lidhaura 
Legislative Assembly Constituency terronsed Congress T/n lers by taking away 
the Flag of the Party fixed outside the Booth and threatened them. 




THE GAZETTE Of INDIA : MAY 12, 1462/VATSAKHA 22, 1984 [Part 11 


3. That at Lidhaura Balaji Lodhi and his party people in the Lidhaura Assemb- 
ly Constituency picked quarrels with the Voters of the Congress party and beat 
them and similar things were done by Prukash Chandra Jam at Chandera and 
Babu Lai Chaubey at Digora Polling Station. 

These people obstructed the peaceful Meetings and canvassing of the Congress 
Party and caused widespread undue milucnce to prevail throughout. 

4. That Panna Lai Patwari Pctpuru und Dundi Alias Kamtua Chowkidar of 
Nadanwara canvassed for the Respondent in their Polling Stations at the time of 
the Election at the instance of the Respondent, his Agents and supporters, 

5. That Munna Lul Naik a Polling Officer of Bamhauri Polling Station, openly 
canvassed for the Respondent at the instance of the Respondent his Agents and 
Supporters Inside the Polling Booth. 

6. That Raghraja Khakron Bari who was a Voter died before the Election and 
Karan Singh caused his wife Chipri Bari to Vote in place of Raghuraja. 

7. That Rarprasad alias Halkcy of Lahurgawan Hanumat Singh Jaron of the 
same Village canvassed in the Polling Booth at Lahurgawan at the Election for 
the Respondent at the instance of the Respondent, and his Agents and supporters. 

Rilli Charmkar. 


VERIFICATION. 

1 Rilli S/o, Sunne R/o. Tikamgarh, this day the 11th April, 1962, at Tikam- 
garh verify that the contents of the particulars, para 1 to 7 have been written at 
my instructions and are true to my personal knowledge and on the mformation 
received from my Agents and supporters, which I believe to be true. 

Rilli Charmkar. 

[No. 82/318/62.] 

S O. 1385.— In pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (i) of section 86 of 
I he Representation of the People Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby pub- 
lishes a copy of the Election Petition No. 258 of 1962, presented to the Commis- 
sion on the 12th April, 1962, under section 81 of the said Act, by Shri Khubehand 
Baghel, S/o Shri Judawan Singh, Resident of Tatyapara, Raipur, District Raipur, 
Madhya Pradesh, calling in question the election to the House cf the People from 
the Mahasamund constituency of that House of Shri Vffiyacharan Shukla, S/o 
Pandit Ravishanker Shukla, Resident of Budhapara, Raipur, District Raipur, 
Mudhya Pradesh. 

TO 

THE ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA, NEW DELHI. 

Election Petition No, 258 of 1962, 

Shri Khubehand Baghel s/o Shree Judawan Singh r/o Tatyapara, Raipur, 
District Raipur, M.P Petitioner. 

VERSUS 

1. Shree Vidyacharan Shukla s/o Pandit Ravishanker Shukla, r/o Budhapara, 
Raipur, Dist. Raipur M,P. 

2 Shree Indradeo Tandon s/o Sira Singh resident of Village: Jhara, P.O. Kha- 
lari, Tahsil Mahasamund, Distt. Raipur M.P. 

3. Shree Dharm]it Singh s/o Tribhuwan Singh r/o Sarangarh, District Raigarh, 

M.I\ „ , 

4 . Shree Ramsingh s/o Ganesh Ram, r/o Lalpur P.O. Bagbahara, Tehsil Maha- 
samund, Dist. Raipur M,F. 

PETITION UNDER SECTION 80 and 83 OF THE RE P RE ®^^? I f T] ^f ™K 
PEOPLE ACT, 1951 calling in question the election of MAHASAMUND O 
SABHA CONSTITUENCY from the State of Madhya Pradesh, 

The Petitioner named above submits as under;— 

! The petitioner and the four respondents were contesting candidates for the 
Lok Sabha from the Mahasamund I.ok Sabha Constituency of the State of M. . 
in the last general elections. 



Sec, 5(H)] THE GAZETTE OF iNblA : MAY 12, 1062/VAtSAKHA s>5, 1884 ^5 


2. As a result of the Poll the respondent No. 1 namely, Shree Vidyacharan 
Shukla was declared elected to the Lok Sabha from the aforesaid Constituency on 
27th February 1962. 

3. The total number of votes polled by the respective candidates is given 
nelow: — 

Shree Vidyacharan Shukla (Respondent 1) — 56,664. 

Shree Khubchand Baghel (Petitioner) — 53,872. 

Shree Dharmjcct Singh (Respondent No. 3) — 23,889. 

Shree Ramsingh (Respondent No. 4) — 14,532. 

Shree Indradeo Tandon (Respondent No. 2) — 9,138. 

4. In the aforesaid election the Petitioner represented the Praja Socialist Party, 
the Respondent No. 1 represented the Congress Party, the Respondent No. 3 repre- 
sented the Ram-Ra]ya Parishad, the Respondent No. 4 represented the Jan Sangh 
and Respondent No. 2 represented the Republic Party. 

5. The respondent No. 1 to prejudice the prospects of the petitioner’s eltction 
published in the name of Sliree Tikamchand Jain a pamphlet, in Hindi, marked 
herewith as ANNEXURE-I.* The respondent No. 1 himself as also his agents and 
workers with his consent distributed the said pamphlet in the whole Constituency 
between the 16th and 23rd February 1962. 

6. Shree Tikamchand Jain in whose name the said pamphlet was published is 
Secretary of Mandal Congress Committee, Mahasamund, and was an important 
agent and worker of Respondent No. 1. The pamphlet was published in the name 
of Shree Jain with full consent and knowledge of Respondent No. 1. In effect it 
was a publication by Respondent No. 1 in the name of Shree Tikamchand Jain. 

7. The said pamphlet in the last two paras contains statement of I cts relating 
to the personal character and conduct of petitioner. In particular, the pamphle 
states: — 

Translated from Hindi. 

(i) “Shree Khubchand Baghel for his own ends levelled false and illthy 

charges against respected and honoured leader (late Pandit Ravi Shan- 
ker Shukla) which were published from time to time in the Blitz, a 
newspaper of Communist Party. During the course of proceedings for 
defamation when occasion arose for proving the charges Shree Baghel 
backed out and the Newspaper Blitz on 26th of January 1962, the Re- 
public day, publicly and unconditionally apologised for publishing 
false and deceitful charges made by this leader. But Shree Baghel is 
habitual in such conduct and he knows that his political status is 
based on such groundless foundation. 

(ii) “Shree Khubchand Baghel was President of the Reception Committee of 

Betul Praja Socialist Party Conference. Shree Khubchand Baghel has 
not yet furnished account of Rs. 16,000 which were raised as subscrip- 
tion for the conference although the reception committee has been 
repeatedly demanding the accounts. Where has this money gone? 
Having known these facts you (Voters) can yourself decide as to how 
far such unscrupulous leader and party can benefit you or the con- 
stituency. 

8. It is entirely false that the petitioner levelled any charges or made any 
allegations regarding Pandit Ravishanker Shukla which were published in the 
Blitz. Hie Blitz in its issue dated 20th July 1957 published certain allegations 
against pandit Ravishanker Shukla which were reported to have been made b!y 
Dr. Ram Manohar Lohla, the Socialist Leader in one of his speeches made in the 
First week of July 1957 at Delhi and Dr. S. M. Hasan on earlier occasions. The 
respondent No. 1 who is one of the sons of Pandit Shukla has filed a suit being 
suit No. 12B of 58 in the Court of Civil Judge, Jabalpur for defamation against 
Dr. Lohla, and Editor and staff correspondent of Blitz. The petitioner had nothing 
to do with the making or reporting of the said charges of allegations against Pt. 
Shukla or with the suit filed by respondent No. 1. He was not approached or cal- 
led upon by any ore to substantiate these chnrges or allegations nor was there 
any question of his backing out from proving the charges or allegations. As al- 
ready stated the petitioner was wholly unconnected and unconcerned with any 
charges or allegations against Pandit Shukla published in BLITZ as also with the 


Not Printed. 



l£ 4 <S THE GA/EfTE OF INblA MAV 12, 1962/VAtsAkHA 22, 1884 [Part II 


defamation case filed against Dr Lohia and Blitz The respondent No 1 as also 
his agent and worker Tlkamchand Jain knew that the statement of facts made In 
the pamphlet in this respect are false By making this false statement the respon- 
dent No 1 attacked the petitioner’s personal conduct and character In that the 
petitioner made false and filthy allegations against late Pandit Shukla whose me- 
mory is much honoured and respected m the Constituency, has now backed out in 
substantiating them, has thus put the Blitz in trouble and that the petitioner is 
habitual in such conduct. 

9 It Is also false that the petitioner was President of the Reception Committee 
of Betul Praia Socialist Party Conference The petitioner was never entrusted 
with a sum of Rs 16,000/- or any sum in respect of that conference nor was any 
account demanded from him by the reception Committee or any one The Respon- 
dent No 1 and his agent and worker Shrce Tlkamchand Jain knew that the alle- 
gations made in this respect in the said Pamphlet are false or at any rate they did 
not believe it to be true By making these false allegations the respondent No 1 
attacked the personal character and conduct ot petitioner and falsely suggested 
that the petitioner has been guilty of misappropriating a sum of Rs , 6,000/- 
raised by subscription for the Betul Praja Socialist Party Conference. 

10 The aforesaid statements of facts made in the pamphlet as already stated 
related to the personal character and conduct of the petitioner, were false to the 
knowledge of respondent No 1 and Shree Tlkamchand Jain, the Agent and worker 
of respondent No. 1, and also to the knowledge of other agents and workers of 
respondent No 1, who distributed the pamphlet with the consent of respondent 
No. 1 The allegations were reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects pf 
the petitioner’s election The respondent No 1, his agent Shree Tlkamchand Jain 
as also other agents and workers of Respondent No 1 distributing the pamphlet 
were guilty of corrupt practice under Section 123(4) of R P Act, 1951. 

11 The pertlculars of the corrupt practice are as follow — 

(A) The pamphlet — Annexure-l-to the petition was printed at Saraswati 

Printing Press Mahasamund In the name of Shree Tlkamchand Jam 
who is shown as publisher 

(B) The said pamphlet was distributed In the entire constituency by res- 

pondent No 1 himself and his agents and workers with his c onsent 
details of distribution at a few places which could be gatheied at the 
time of dratling the petition are given below:— 


Names of persons 


Places of distribution 


Date of 
Distri- 
bution 


I. Shree Vidyacharan Shukla, Res- Village Birkoni, (Mahasamund Assembly 
pondentNo i) Constituency) 


16-2-62 


Village Tamora 

(Mahasamund Assembly Constituency) 
Town Mahusamund 

(ii) Tlkamchand Jam r/o Maha Town Mahasamund 
samund 


18-2-62 

22-2-62 

17-2-62 


(in') Rameshchandra Shukla s/o 
Ambika Charan Shukla, nep- 
hew of Respondent No I 

fie) Ram Ratan Nayak r/o Baram- 
kela. 


Village Rajim 

(Rajim Assembly Constituei cy) 

19-2-62 

Town Sarangarh 

15-2-62 

In all the villages of polling station, baram- 
kela 

(Pussorc Constituency) 

15-2-62 

In all the villages of polling station, Tausir 
(Pussorc Constituency) 

16-2-62 

In all the villages of polling station, Kha- 
khanm, 

(Pussorc Constituency) 

In all the villages of polling station, Kanthi 

17-2-62 

Pali, 

(Pussorc Ci nstituency) 

18-2-62 


Sec. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 1902/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 1647 


Names of persons 

Places of distribution 

Date of 

Distribution 

(d) Hct Ram Pandit r'o Dansura. 

Village Dansara in Sarangnrh Constituency 

16-2-62 


Town of Sarangarh, 


(w) Janki Prasad Mehar r/o Rai- 

In all the villages of polling station, Tarckcla. 

15-2-62 

garh. 

(Pussore Constituency! 

In all the villages of polling station. Jam- 

16-2-62 


dalka. 

(Pussore Constituency) 


( vii ) Prithi Palsingh r/o Raigarh. 

Town Btrangarh ... 

17-2-62 

(viif) Keshavchandra Gupta r/o 

In all the villages ot polling station, Bade- 

18-2-62 

Bade-Niuvapara 

Nawapara. 



(Pussore Constituency). 

In all the villages of polling station, Khaira- 

17-2-62 


garhi. 

(Pussore Constituency) 

In all the villages of polling station, Khori- 

18-2-62 


gtton. 

(PiiRsorc Constituency) 


(we) Mohanlal Naynk r/o I lathi 

In all the villages of polling station, Kanthi 

17-2-62 

I apali. 

Puli. 


(Pussore Constituency) 

In all the villages of polling station, Hirri. 
(Pussore Constituency) 

18-2-62 

(x) Suresh Prasad Pandey r/o 

In all the villages of polling station. Bud- 

16-2-62 

Parpada. 

buda. 



(Pussore Constituency) 

in all the villages of polling station, Nadigaon 
and Lukupar. 

(Pussore Constituency). 

17-2-62 


12. The election of the returned candidate, the respondent No. 1 Shree Vidya- 
< haran Shukla Is void because of corrupt practice committed by him his agents 
and workers with his consent, as stated above. 

13. The corrupt practice as detailed above was committed at such an extensive 
scale that but for the votes obtained by the returned candidate by corrupt prac- 
tices the petitioner would have obtained a majority of the valid votes. 

14. A security deposit of Rs. 2,000/- has been made as required by Section 117 
of the R. P. Act. 

PRAYER 

The Petitioner claims: — 

(i) A declaration that the election of returned candidate Shree Vidya Cha- 

ran Shukla, respondent No. 1, is void: 

(ii) Any other relief that may In the circumstances of the case be deemed 

fit and Proper. 


Khubchand Baghel. 


Raipur: 9-4-1962. 

Verification 

I. Khubchand Baghel, s/o Judawan Singh, resident of Tatyanapara, Raipur, 
Madhya Pradesh, declare that the contents of paras 1. 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9 and 14 of the 
petition arc true within my personal knowledge and the contents of paras 5, 0, 
10, 11. 12 and 13 are believed by me on credible information received to be 
correct. 

Signed and verified at Raipur on this 9th day of April 1902. 


Khubchand Baghel, Petitioner. 



1648 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1384 [Part II 


Enclosures: — 

1. Pamphlet marked — Anncxure-1. 

2. Receipt of security deposit of Rs. 2,000/-. 

3. Affidavit in support of corrupt practices. 

4. Five extra copies of petition, Annexure-I and Affidavit. 

KHUBCHAND BAGHEL, Petitioner. 

[No. 82/258/02.] 


New Delhi, the 1th May 1962 

S.O. 1386. — In pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 86 of 
rhe Representation of the People Act. 1951, the Election Commission hereby 
publishes a copy of the Election Petition No, 324 of 1HG2, presented to the Com- 
mission on the 16th April, 1902, under section 81 of the said Act, by Shri Sardar 
lVlal son of Shri Jorawar Mai, Advocate, Dhaddhon Ka Bagh, Moti Dungari Road, 
Jaipur, calling in question the election to the House of the People from the 
Jaipur constituency of that House of Shrimatl Gayatri Devi wife of Maharaja 
Man Singhji, Rajmahal, Jaipur. 

THE ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA NEW DELHI. 

Election Petition No. 324 of 1962 
Relating to Jaipur constituency of Lok Sabha 

Sardar Mai S/o Zorawarmal, Advocate Dhaddhon Ka Bagh Moti Dungari 
Road, Jaipur City. — Petitioner. / 


Versus 

Smt. Gayatri Devi W/o Maharaja Man Singhji Rajmahal Jaipur. — Respondent. 

Election Petition under Sec. 89 & 81 of the Representation of the Peoples Act 
1951 in relation to the election to Lok Sabha from Jaipur Parliamentary Constitu- 
ency held on 1st March. 1962. 

May it please your Honour, 

The Petitioner begs to submit as under: — 

1. “That the petitioner is an elector enrolled at No. 607 Part 60 Block 7 of 
Johri Bazar Assembly Constituency Jaipur of the Parliamentary constituency of 
Jaipur. 

2. That the respondent is a relumed candidate having being declared elected on 
1st March 1962 to the Lok Sabha from Jaipur Parliamentary Constituency. 

3. That the resDondent is the wife of the Maharaja of Jaipur who has been the 
Rajpramukh of Rajasthan. 

4. That the election of the respondent to the Lok Sabha is void on account of 
the following grounds: amongs others: — - 

(a) That the respondent her agents and supporters with her consent committed 
the corrupt practice of bribery as specified in Sec. 123 (i) of the Representation of 
the Peoples Act, inasmuch as they induced the voters of Jaipur City Amer Sam- 
bher and other villages to vote for the respondent by giving them sweets and 
drinks, by paying illegal gratification and offering to the temples their priests and 
pujaris. Yaganas were also organised at several places and rewards were distri- 
buted to the Brahamans in the form of Dakshina. The Particulars and instances 
of this corrupt practice are given in Annexure A. 

(b) That, the respondent her agents and supporters with her consent engaged 
religious priests and pujaris of temples who propagated amongst the illiterate peo- 
ple in the name of religion. There was systematic appeal made to the electors that 
“Ashtagrah Yog” i.e. eight plannet combination had set in and they would perrist 
if the stars are not pleased Maharani. the respondent who had star as her symbol 
and as such had stars with her. could save them if she is pleased, She was a 

GoddeSB^f”. They further made a false propaganda that the respondent was 
sure to win and if the electors did not vote for her Wrath of God will fall on them. 
They can be saved from the evil effects of the Ashtagrah Yog only when the 
respondent comes in power after she is elected. 

Religious ceremony i.e. the Yagnas were organised by the respondent her agents 
end supporters In the temples of Tarkeshwarji, Dinanathji and Govindevji in 



Sec. 8(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1834 


1649 


Jaipur City among 3 many others and at Amer, Phagi, Sambher, Dodu and various 
other places between 27th Januray, 1962 and 10th of February and the Puiaris 
Priests and Mahants of these temples made a systematic appeal in the name of 
religion to vote for the respondent. Due to this propaganda the electors could not 
-excerclse their free will and were unduely influenced to "vote for the respondent. 

That the respondent was always accompanied by Jagirdars and Thakhurs who 
went in Jeeps with her fully armed and canvassed for her. They created terror 
amongs the voters who argued with them and threaten them to vote for the respon- 
dent. Thakur Bhanu Pratap Singh of Dudu, Thakur of Mehlan and Thakur of 
Jobner actually thcaten the residents of their Jaglr areas with dire consequences if 
they did not vote for the respondent. 


Thus the respondent is guilty of the corrupt practice of undue influence as 
specified in Sec. 123 Sub-Section 2 of the representation of the Peoples Act. 


(c) That the respondent and her husband summoned the Ex-Jagirdars and 
Thakurs of the erstwhile Jaipur State and a meeting of all these were held in the 
■City Palace Jaipur where all those Rajputs were given vow to support the respon- 
dent. An appeal was made In the meeting that the" "election of the respondent was 
a prestige question for the entire Rajput community and if they have Rajput blood 
in them they should be prepared to sacrifice, every thing for this election. This 
vow was taken by taking a sword in hand by everybody who was present in the 
meeting. This meeting was held in the last week of January. Similar type of meet- 
ings wore organised in Dudu, Jobner, Chome during the period between 1st and 
10th of February, Consequently all the Jagirdars and Rajputs carried on a propa- 
ganda on the basis of community that they would vote and would canvass support 
for the respondent. 


Thus the respondent her agents and supporters with her consent made appeals 
In the name of castes and community to vote for the respondent and thus the 
respondent Is guilty of the corrupt practises mentioned in Sub-Clause 3 of Sec. 123 
of the representation of the Peoples Act. 

(d) That the respondent her agents and supporters with her consent hired and 
procured vehicles for carrying the voters to the polling stations from their resi- 
dences Electors were actually carrycd In such vehicles and therefore, the cor- 
rupt practice as specified in 3ec. 123 of the Representations of Peoples Act was 
committed by the respondent. The particulars of the corrupt practice are detail- 
ed in Annexure B. 

(e) That the respondent had committed the corrupt practice as specified in 

Sec 123 Sub-Section 6 in as much as the expenceg actually incurred or authorised 
by her have exceeded the prescribed limits The respondent has spent less but hag 
Oled a return showing onlv Rs. 19 thousands as the actual expenses incurred y 
hen Vhe respondentias not shown many items of -penditure which were 

actually Incurred and much less has been shown In other Items. The partlcu a a 
are given In Annexure C. 

5. That the above mentioned corrupt practices bave extenrively prevalled in 
the cnostitucncy and but for these corrupt practices the respondent could not 
succeed, 

6. The Petitioner contends that the election of the respondent Is void and the 
•petition is filed with In limitation and the security deposit of Rs. 2,000 has been 
made in the name of the Election Commission. The receipt of paring is attacnea 
herewith. 


It is therefore, prayed that 

1 The Election Petition be accepted and the election of the respondent to 
the Lok Sabha be set aside and fresh election be ordered, 


'2. Costs of the petition be awarded, 

■3. The respondent be held guilty of haring committed the corrupt practices 
detailed above and be disqualified, 

4. Any other relief which may be deemed fit may be awarded. 

Delhi— Dt. 16-4-1962. 


Sd./- Sakdar Mai,, 
Petitioner, 



1650 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKI1A 22, 1684 [Part II 


Verification 

I, Sardar Mai £/o Zoraver Mai resident of Motl Dungrl, Road, Jaipur, verify 
on oath that the contents of paragraphs 1 to 6 with their Sub-paragraphs are true 
to the best of my knowledge and belief and Information received from friends 
which I considered to be true. 

Verified at Delhi, on 16-4-1962. 

Sd./- Sardar Mal, 
Petitioner. 


Annexure A 

1. The respondent, her agents and supporters with her consent organised 
Yagnas during the period between 28th January and 10th February In the temples 
of Tarkeshwarji, Dmanathji, Govindevji In Jaipur City and at Amer, Phagl, 
Sambher, Dudu and several other places. She visited all these places on different 
dates and made offerings to the temple and subscribed towards these Y ago as. 
The Priests who had assembled their in large number were paid rewards and’ 
they blessed the respondent, 

2. The respondent, her agents and supporters with her consent distributed 
wine bottles and sweets to the voters in Jaipur City on the night of 20th February 
and on 21st February i.e. on the polling date Laddus were distributed on all the 
polling stations of Jaipur City on behalf of the respondent. 

3. The respondent and his agents employed about 2,000 workers to vote and 
convess for the respondent on the promise that they would be patd Rs. 3 to 5 
per day as reward. They were actually paid for the period they worked between 
26th January, 1962 to 26th February, 1962. 

4. That it was a part of the propaganda of the respondent that the grain 
would be made cheaper if the voters voted for her. In fourthernce of the pros- 
pectus of her election, the respondent her agents and supporters with her consent 
got cheap grain shop opened in Chandpur Bazar and Atish in Jaipur City on or 
about the 16th of February where cheap grain was sold to the electors and at 
the very same time the person was extrecttng a promise from them that they 
would vote for the respondent. Such shops were also opened In Sambher and 
other places. 

5. That the respondent on or about the 15th of February visited village 
Mamada and promised to pay a sum of Rs. 2,000 to the Agr.awal community for 
constructions of their schools. The respondent paid Rs. 500 on the very day and 
Rs. 1500 were paid after 2 or 3 days through Shrl Bhanu Pratap Singh of Dudu 
who was her agent. 

6. The respondent her agents and supporters paid different amount in the 
form of offerings to the temples named above between 27th January to 10tb 
February, 1962. She promised to give silver doors to the temple of the Dinanathjt. 

Verification 

I Sardar Mai S/o Zorawar Mai verify on oath that what stated above in 
Annexure A is correct to the best of my knowledge and Information which I 
believe to be true. 

Delhi— Dt. 16-4-1962. 

Sd./- Sardar Mae, 
Petitioner. 


Annexure B 

The respondent procured all the people of her husband’s garage and were all 
used to bring the voters. 

2. The respondent procured and hired at least 100 Tongas in which the voters 
were taken to the polling stations in Jaipur City. Among others the respondent 
procured Jeep No. RJL 6324, RJL 8373, RJL 2484, RJL 4048, RJL 4064, these 
vehicle carried the voters to the polling stations in home area. 

3. The respondent, her agents and supporters with her consent procured Jeep 
No. RJQ 3244 and RJL, 375 and Taxi Tongas of Ajmer No, 483, 488, 475 and 18 
for carriage of the voters and these vehicles actually carried the voters to polling 



Sec. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1651 


stations No, 30 and 31 in Amer. There are several other Instances which will 
be added afterwards 


Verification 

I, Sardar Mai S/o Zorawar Mai resident ol Moti Dungri Road, Jaipur, verify 
on oath that the contents of the above paragraphs are true to the best of my 
knowledge and belief and information which 1 consider to be true, 

Delhi — Dt. 16-4-1962. 


(Sd.) Sardar Mal 

Petitioner. 


Annexe re C 

The respondent freely distributed plastic badges bearing the symbol of the 
respondent and the actual expenditure according to the petitioner comes to 
about Rs. 30,000 but the respondent has shown m‘ her return a ‘meagre sum of 
Rs. 265 90 naya paisa. 

2. The respondent got a big bold installed in the temple of Govindevji in 
which through electric automatic contrivance. It was explained as to how a voter 
will cast vote in favour of the respondent. The manufacturing cost of this as 
well as the electricity charges cannot be less than Rs. 3,000 but no expenditure 
in this regard has been shown by the respondent. 

3. The respondent at SargasuR Jaipur and at various other places got an 
installation of electric neon signs of the respondent symbol but no expenditure 
in this regard also has been shown. The petitioner estimates that at least 
1,000 Rs. must have been spent on this item. 

4. The respondent and her agents hired about 1,000 cycles on Re. 1 per day. At 
least Rs, 20,000 must have been spent on this item which is omitted in the 
expenses, 

5. The respondent employed about 4,000 paid workers on the polling dates 
and 1,000 generally; for a period of one month at a rate of Rs. 3 to 5 per day 
but no expenditure on this item has been shown. According to the petitioner 
atleast 25,000 Rs. must have been spent on this item. 

6. The respondent engaged Lawyers S/Shri Chiranji Lai Agarwal, C. N. 
Sharma, Ladli Lai and others for legal advice in the matter of filing nomination 
and scrutiny. The fees which is 5,000 minimum paid to the lawyers has not been 
shown in the expenses. 

7. The respondent offered at least Rs, 1,00,000 as charities In the form of 
offerings to the temples, donations to the Schools and other institutions, Dakshinas 
(Rewards) to the Pandit etc., has been omitted, 

8. The respondent invited cinema actors namely, Prcm Nath and others, but 
the expenses incurred In their travelling and boarding loadging have not been 
included in the return of the expenses. According to the estimates of the peti- 
tioner the respondent must have spent at least 5,000 rupees on this item. 

9. The respondent ha# not included any expenditure with regard to the public 
meetings, processions, receptions, erection of arches, stages and on mikes and 
loud speakers. The respondent held at least 50 big meetings and about 100 small 
meetings. According to the petitioner not less than 5,000 rupees must have been 
spent on this item, 

10. The respondent employed a drama party consisting of about 15 actors and 
actresses who went from place to place and staged dramas to canvass support 
for the respondent. They went in a lorry of the Rajmahal and their travelling 
and other expense cannot be estimated at less than 25,000 rupees. But this big 
item has been omitted from the return of the election expenses. 

11. At least 100 tongas in Jaipur and large number In other towns and 
similarly about 100 other vehicles were hired by the respondent, but only 4 or 
B have been shown in the return, In the same way the cost of Petrol and Mobiloil 
paid by the respondent is much higher than the amount shown in the return. The 
respondent must have spent at least more than Rs. 20.000 on the petrol, oil and 
hire of these vehicles, but only a meagre sum has been shown in the return. 



1652 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 [Part II 


12. That the respondent, her agents and supporters got the name, symbol with 
a request to vote for her bearing the name of the respondent painted on boards 
and at various places numbering about 5,000 in Jaipur City and all villages and 
towns by means of water and oh painting. The expenditure on one board cannot 
be less than Rs. 5. Besides, several flags with Star mark and blue cloth bearing 
the symbol of the respondent were freely distributed to the tongas, rikhshas, 
shop-keepers and all the town^ and ±ji <• ul the constituency. The expenditure 
on this item is not less than Rs. 5,000. Thus in all Rs. 25,000 have been incurred 
on the publicity Through painted boards. 

13. That expenditure in regard to posters, booklets, hand bills etc. is shown 
much less. 

Besides, the above the several other heads under which the expenditure was 
incurred or authorised by the respondent, but much less has been shown. 


That the return file by the respondent is false and the actual expenditure has 
exceeded the prescribed limits. 

Verification 


I Sardar Mai S/o Shri Jorawar Mai, Advocate resident of Moti Dungri Road, 
Jaipur, verify on oath that the contents of Annexure C stated above are true 
to the best of my knowledge and information which I think to be true. 


Delhi— Dt. 16-4-1902. 


(Sd.) Sardar Mal, 

Petitioner. 


LNo. 82/324/02.] 
By Order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secy. 

New Delhi, the 5th May J902 

S.O. 1387. — In pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 80 of 
the Repres mtation of the People Act, 1051, the Election Commission hereby pub- 
lishes a copy of the Election Petition No. 216 of 1902, presented to the Commission 
on the 12th April, 1962, under section 81 of the said Act, by Shri Patel Chhotabhai 
Desaibhai, Resident of Ajarpura, Taluka Anand, District Kalra, Gujarat State, cal- 
ling in question the election to the House of the People from the Anand consti- 
tuency of that House of Shri Narendraslnhji Ranjttsinhjl Mahida, Resident of 
Baroda, Vlshrambag, Laxmi-Villas Place Compound Baroda, District Baroda, 
Gujarat State. 

BEFORE THE ELECTION COMMISSION, NEW DELHI 
Election Petition No, 216 of 1962 


District: Kaika 

In the matter of the representation of the People Act, 1951. 

AND 

In the matter of the conduct of Election Rules, 1901. 

AND 

In the matter of the Election to the House of the People, Anand Parliamentary 
Constituency. 

AND 

In the matter of calling in question the Election of Shri Narendrasinhji 
Ranjitsinhji Mahida. 

Patel Chhotabhai Desaibhai aged 51 years residing at Ajarpura, Taluka 
Anand, District Kaira, Gujarat State — Petitioner. 

Versxis 

1, Shri Narendrasinhji Ranjitsinhji Mahida, aged 49 years, residing at Baroda. 

2. Maniben Vallavbhai Patel, aged 00 years, residing at Navjiwan Karyalay, 
Ahmedabad, — Opponents. 

THE HUMBLE PETITION OF THE PETITIONER ABOVENAMED. 

Most respectfully showeth: — 

1. That the petitioner is a citizen and a national of India, and is an ordinary 
resident of village Ajarpura in Kaira District. That the petitioner is an elector 



Sec. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


165? 


in relation to the House of People, Anand Parliamentary Constituency in Kaira 
District. The name of the petitioner has been registered in the electoral roll of 
village Ajarpura of the said Constituency. The petitioner is not subject to any 
of_the disqualification mentioned in S. 16 of the Representation of the People Act, 
1950 (hereinafter referred to as the Act of 1950) or under any other law. That 
the petitioner was over 25 years of age on the qualifying date. The petitioner 
was entitled to vote at the general election of the parliamentary seat to the 
House of the People held on 21st, 23rd and 25th February, 1962 in the said 
Constituency. 

2. That Respondent Nos, 1 and 2 had filed their nominations for a seat in the 
House of the People for the Anand Parliamentary Constituency (hereinafter 
referred to as tlm said Constituency) in Kaira District of Gujarat State. The 
Anand Parliamentary Constituency consisted of the area comprised of the 
following; 


Parliamentary Constituency, Anand 


Serial No. and Name of Date of Poll Sr. No. and Name of 

Parliamentary Constitu- Assembly Constituency 

ency 


14. Anand . . ■ 23rd February, 1962 

21 st February, 1962 
25th February, 1962 
21 st February, 1962 
25th February, T962 
23rd February, 1962 
23rd February, 1962 


90 Dhandhuka 

91 Umreth 

92 Anand 

93 Sunav 

94 Petlnd 

97 Cambay 

98 Matar 


The said Constituency was a single member constituency. The nomination 
papers of the Respondents Nos. 1 and 2 were accepted by the Returning Officer 
on 22nd January, 1962. The Respondent No. 1 was nominated as a candidate by 
the Swatantra Party. The Symbol chosen by the Swatantrn Party for the elec- 
tion was Star. This Symbol was recognised by the Election Commission and as 
such the Star was the Symbol of the Respondent No. 1. The Respondent No. 2 was 
a candidate of the Congress Party and the Symbol of the Congress candidate 
consisted of two bullocks with yoke on. That the Respondent Nos. 1 and 2 were 
the only contesting candidates. That the election took place on the dates specified 
hereinabove in th" respective Assembly Constituency, The result of the said 
election was declared by the Returning Officer on the 1st March, 1962 at Kaira. 
That the Respondent No. 1 secured 1,69,116 votes as against 1,46,387 votes secured 
by th^ Respondent No. 2 and he was declared elected by the Returning Officer 
by a majority of 22,729 votes. That the Anand Parliamentary Constituency is of 
4,69,662 voters. The petitioner says that nearly 60 per cent voters out of the said 
number of voters belong to Kshatriya Community. In the Umreth Assembly 
Constituency thare are 31,944 Kshatriya Voters out of a total of 79,932 voters. In 
the Anand Assembly Constituency there arc 30,493 Kshatriya Voters out of a 
total of 75,792 voters. 

3. The petitioner says that the Respondent No. 1 and one Shri Natversinhji 
Keshari Sinhji Solanki, and Bhagwansinhji Chhasthia (hereinafter referred to 
as the said “Solanki” and the said “Chhasthia") are the recognised heads and 
leaders of eminence of the Kshatriya Community (hereinafter ref 'rred to as the 
said community) in Kaira District as well as in the Gujarat, Their followers 
attach great value to their orders and instructions and respect their word with 
sanctity. Their orders, instructions and requests were and are even treated as 
religious commands, 


4. That they addressed several meetings of their followers and appealed to 
them that it was the primary “DHARMA” of all their followers to help the 
candidature of the Respondent No. 1 as his Bbnndhavas. The Respondent No. 1, 
the said Shri Solanki and Chastia gave “FARMAN” to all thp Kshatriya voters 
of the said constituency to vote for the first Respondent on the ground of reli- 
gion, caste and community. The petitioner says that Shri Solanki and Shri 
Chhastla were the agents and active supporters of the first Respondent and they 
were acting with the consent of the Respondent No. 1. 



1 654 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAMIA 22 . 1884 [Part II 


5. That the Respondent No, 1 released a statement (Nivedan) under his signa- 
ture under the caption “I HAVE LEFT CONGRESS TO CONVEY THE VOICE 

OF THE PEOPLE . The petitioner sets out the following excerpts as indicating 

the author’s drift: 

“I am not ashamed of being a kshatriya. I say it with pride yes, I am a 

kshatriya, a descendant of the courageous and the brave kshatriyas such as Ram 

and Krishna; I am a descendant of religious prophets like Budha and Mahavir. 

I am the heir of great personages of their Age with lusture of kshatriya (Prince- 
ly) class like Gandhiji and Sardar. He is a kshatriya who observes the 
‘KSHATRA DHARMA— DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF KSHATRIYA’ and thus 
anybody can become a kshatriya. Is it a sin or a stigma to become a kshatriya 
in this country? No, we ure kshatriyas and have remained the defenders of the 
people. We know how to win kingdom and throne and it is only we who know 
to renounce it. The whole history of India bears witness to the same. I am a 
kshatriya and as kshatriyas are my BANDHAVAS, surely they (kshatriya) would 
support me is obvious and natural. Lord Krishna lifted the mount ‘Govardhan’ 
for the protection of the people but it received supports of sticks by every one 
of the ‘Gopalas’ shepherds; so shall I want your support. There is no doubt that 
all the troubles will vanish if you make that support available. 

I enjoin upon every kshatriya to become a good kshatriya and I ask every 
Brahmin to become a good Brahmin. The four class system (Varnas) of our 
society is unparallel in the whole world. If people attain the best virtues by 
means of their respective qualities and action, then they can become illustrious 
citizens of the country, In that way our national character can be maintained 
and it may also shine; if somebody asks you to cease to be a kshatriya it pains 
me so much that I cannot describe it. We may be poor, but on that account we 
are not disheartened, nor shall we be so in future. Poverty is not a thing to be 
ashamed of. It is enough for us if we are not repressed or are not led away 
by other’s influence. I, therefore, say do not lose courage and have faith. Faith 
is the only true strength. This is the time of our test. But we have no other 
go but have to cross If over. 

Who said that we wanted to regain our kingdom throne? Mr. Nehru is al- 
ways worried about it, but I assure him that we the kshatriya never think of 
regaining them once the kingdoms and thrones have been given over. But we 
shall not tolerate if the undeserving persons come to ascend that throne, claiming 
to be the masters; we have never surrendered to injustice nor shall we do so, 
this is our pledge. This is our vow; and the same is our support. It is my wish 
that people in this country may cultivate courage. Their bodies become energe- 
tic and strong. Their sentiments may remain true and selfless. Nobody may 
interrupt their affairs without rhyme or reason. Their agriculture may continue 
to be prosperous. Shri C. Rajagopalachari has made an auspicious beginning 
by founding a new party throughout the country. Bhaikaka has started beating 
the ‘Rannobat’. Bravo; invitations are at our doors; we have got an opportunity 
to maintain the reputation of our forefathers; The swatantra party has warned 
us; and encouraged by patting our backs; we have to give them support. So 
let us plunge in. Come out, victory is ours.” Marked Annexure "A” is the said 
statement, iruc translation into English of the said statement is annexed here- 
with. Marked Annexure “Al” is daily newspaper containing statement of the 
first Respondent. The petitioner craves leave to refer to and rely on the said 
statement as if its contents are specifically set out herein. 

0. In the said statement the Respondent No. 1 had directly appealed to 
kshatriya to support his candidature as a kshatriya. That the said appeal to 
the said community is made with the object of using it as direct inducement to 
vote for respondent No. 1 himself and to refrain from voting for any other person 
on the ground of his religion, race, caste and community for the furtherance of 
the prospects of his election and for prejudicially affecting the election of the 
Respondent No. 2. The tenor of the statement is to appeal the voters as mem- 
bers of caste and/or community to vote for the Respondent No. 1. 

7. The petitioner says that the said statement of the Respondent No. 1 was 
also intended to promote feeling of enmity and/or hatred between different 
classes of Indian citizen on the ground of religion, race, caste and community for 
the furtherance of the prospects of his, election and for prejudicially affecting 
the election of the Respondent No. 2, The Respondent No. 1 also wanted the 
voters to get prejudice against Congress Candidate. 

8. The petitioner says that the Respondent No, 1 along with his agents and 
supporters with the consent of the Respondent No. 1 carried on propaganda by 
widely circulating the said statement, by orally saying the contents of it to th» 




Sec. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1 6 SJ 


voters at the public meetings apd otherwise and also by publishing the same in 
the daily paper Swatantra Sarjan, dated 20th February, 1962, throughout the 
length and breadth of the constituency and in particular Anand, Vadod, Napad, 
Umreth, Kunjrao, Ode, Ahima, Kasor, Khambolaj, Khankhanpur, Khankuva, 
"Tarnol, Dagajipara, Dhureta, Partapura, Neghava, Ratanpura, RasnoL Lingada, 
Pansora, Samarkha, Sarasa, Sili, Sureli, Sundalpura, Saiyadpura, Kamijpura, 
Adas, Karmsad, Chikhodra, Gamdi, Jor, Navali, Bakrol, Boriavi, Mogar, Ram- 
nagar, Rambhvel, Vagashasi, Valasan, Vera, Sandesar, Sundan, Hadgul, Ankla- 
vadi, Cambay and villages around Cambay, Pctlad, and villages around it, 
"Sundarna, Vadadala, Pandori, Paraj, Sunav and villages around it and Matar as 
well as other villages around Matar, to effect that since the Respondent No. 1 
is a "KSHATRIYA , their community voters should vote for him. That the said 
propaganda was carried on to appeal the voters of the said community on the 
ground of his religion, caste and community to further the prospects of the 
Respondent No, l’s election who was a Kshatriya, and to refrain the voters from 
voting for the Respondent No. 2, who was not a Kshatriya. 

9. The petitioner says that the tenor of the statement made by the Respondent 
No. 1 was such that it was in fact and intent calculated to appeal the voters of 
the said community to vote for him on the ground of his religion, caste and 
community and to excite caste and communal feelings. At the end of the said 
statement the expression "JAI SOMNATH” has been used which has historically 
acquired a special meaning and great religious efficacy and significance. "JAI 
"SOMNATH” is the titular God of Kshatriyas, A kshatriya would offer his life 
in the name of God Somnath. The said word is used for exciting kshatriyaa in 
the name of religion. The Respondent No. 1 has in his statement used the said 
slogan in that context, The use of the words ‘‘JAI SOMNATH” was intended to 
excite religious feelings and also to promote feelings of hatred between differ- 
-ent classes of citizens of India on ground of religion, race, caste or community 
and thereby induced the voters of his community to vote for him. It was a 
systematic appeal by the Respondent No. 1 to vote for him on the ground of his 
religion, race, caste' and community, for the furtherance of the prospects of his 
■election and for prejudicially affecting the election of the Respondent No. 2. 

10. That the circulation of the said statement in the constituency in the man- 
ner stated hereinabove and otherwise had greatly affected the prospect of Res- 
pondent No. 2 from being elected and had interfered with the free exercise of 
the electoral rights of the voters in his constituency. The petitioner says that 
the circumstances under which and the context in which the said statement was 
made, it was a direct compelling inducement on the voters which was intended 
to interfere with the free exercise of electoral rights. The voters, majority of 
whom were ignorant, illiterate villagers were susceptible to such propaganda and 
have been unduly influenced by such direct compelling appeal. The petitioner 
mys the above practices amount to corrupt practice within the meaning of sec- 
tion 123 of the Act of 1951. 

11. The said appeal was further accelerated by another appeal in the name 
of religion and religious symbol. This appeal was carried on by the Respondent 
No. 1 his agents and others with the consent of the Respondent No. 1 by the 
use of religious symbol in several leaflets by saying that the "SWATANTRA 
PARTY” carried the emblem of Star of “DHRUVA” which represents the five 
qualities of being eternal, firm, guide, resolute and devoted to religion which 
are equally the virtues of kshatriya and as such they should vote for Respond- 
ent No. 1. The said symbol was used for inducing Hindus as well to vote for 
Respondent No. 1 in the name of religion. The Respondent No. 1, his agents and 
supporters with the consent of Respondent No. 1 gave a religious impetus to it 
and thus obtained votes of Hindus by appealing the voters to vote on the ground 
of religion and by use or appeal to religious symbol. Marked Collectively 
Annexure B ( 1 ) to B(6) are the leflets. 

12. The aforesaid appeals were carried on by Respondent No. 1, his agents 
and others with his and their consent by oral propaganda and by circulation of 
"Statements & leaflets. The said appeals amount to corrupt practice withm the 
meaning of section 123 of the Act of 1951 and that the said corrupt practice 
adopted by the Respondent No. 1, his agents and others with the consent of the 
Respondent No. 1 has operated to reduce the number of votes secured by the 
Respondent No. 2. If the said corrupt practice had not been adopted by the 
Respondent No. 1 his agents and others with the consent of Respondent No. 1 
It would have enhanced and added number of votes in favour of the second 
Respondent. Such addition would have not only wiped out the majority com- 
manded by the returned candidate but the second Respondent "would have com- 
manded majority over the returned candidate and would have been declared 
elected. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 12, I !)fi2/VAI SAKHA 22, 1884 [Part If 


13. That the said Shree Soianki who is the Secretary of the Swatantra Party 
made a statement on 13-2-1962 and published the same under his signature. That 
the said statement was published in the daily paper “Swatantra Sarjan” under 
the caption “THE KSHATRIYA SHOULD GIVE MOUTH FILLING REPLY TO 
THE CRITICS BY MAKING SWATANTRA PARTY VICTORIOUS.” Marked 
Annexure “C" is the leaflet containing the statem nt. “Cl” is a copy of the said 
daily paper. The petitioner sets out the following excerpts indicating the drift: 

“What is all this? The kshatriya population of Gujarat may know that in 
this election fight people have to respond to this cold blooded joke- 
by an equally cool headed reply. The elections will be over within 
the coming 7 days and the results will also be declared within three 
days thereafter. It is a matter of mere ten days within which we- 
have to give those cracking such jokes and disparaging our leaders 
before the public, such a mouth filling reply that they would never 
again have the courage to utter any, such name.” 


The leaflets containing the said statement of Shri Soianki were freely distributed 
at the instance and with the consent of the flr.,t Respondent in the said consti- 
tuency. The said statement was also given wide publicity bv the said daily 
paper. Tho said statement contains a direct appeal to vote for the first Respondent 
on the ground of religion, race, caste and community. The said statement has 
been mnde_and published at the instance ot tut first Respondent and/or with his 
consent to induce the kshatriya voters to vote for the first Respondent. The said 
statement is a compelling inducement to the voters in an insiduous manner inter- 
fering with the free exercise of electoral rights. That the voters have been 
unduly influenced by such corrupt practice. The said statement is attempted at 
promoting feelings of hatred against different classes of the citizens of India on 
the ground of religion, race, caste and community for the furtherance of the 
prospects of the election of Respondent No. 1 and for prejudicially affecting the 
election of the Respondent No. 2. 


14. That the Respondent No. 1 his agents and others with the consent and 
connivance of the Respondent No. 1 and his election agent have widely circulated 
and distributed booklets at public places and in the meetings of the election, 
campaign in the constituency under the caption “SEE HOW BADLY YOU ARE 
TRAPPED” and surely “IF YOU LIKE TO DO SOMETHING, YOU SHOULD 
VOTE FOR THE SWATANTRA PARTY.” Marked Annexure “D” is the booklet. 
On the cover page is depicted a man tied with rope thrown in a caundrol showing 
leaping fire around it, In the Booklet there is one picture which depicts a man 
who is threatened with a pistol creating an impression on the mind of the voter 
that the land-holders would be deprived of their land at the point of pistoL 
All the pictures In the booklet are designed with the object of creating fear in 
the mind of the voters with a view to refrain them from voting for the Congress. 
The pictures and the writings in the booklet create horror and terror in the mind 
of the voters. The pictures unduly influenced the voters. The petitioner says 
that the same amounts to corrupt practice of undue influence within the meaning 
of Section 123(2) of the Act of 1951. 


15 That the election campaign committee of the Swatantra Party had issued 
a leaflet under the caption “PUBLIC SHOULD TEACH A LESSON TO THE 
POWER-BLIND CONGRESS.” It refers to the “REIGN OF RAVANA.” The 
Congress rul^ is compared with reign of Ravana. The expression “REIGN OF 
HAVANA” has acquired a special connotation and meaning. It means reign or 
terror fear and immorality. The said expression Croats before the mental screen 
of the voters a sc me of '‘HAVANA RAJYA” and fear in the minds of the voters 
that thev would meet with the same fate of “RAVANA RAJYA” if they vote for 
the second Respondent. That by publishing and distributing such leaflets and 
making propaganda in public meetings, created terror, fear and hatred in the 
minds of the voters and such other feelings which has interfered with the free 
exercise of electoral rights. The said leaflets were published and distributed 
with the knowledge and consent of the Respondent No. 1 by tus agents for unduly 
influencing the voters in an insiduous manner interfering with the free exercise 
of the electoral rights. The majority voters, who are ignorant and illiterate 
persons are susceptible by such propaganda were unduly influenced by such 
corrupt practices. The said leaflet was calculated to unduly influence and inter- 
fere with the free cxercis? of voting. Marked Annexure “E” is the said leaflet. 

16 That the Respondent No. 1 and his agent with his consent have issued and 
widely distributed leaflets with Star as the symbol with a prefix Dhruva which 
m-'ans eternal, firm, resolute and devoted to religion. The recognised s y??ko ® 
the partv is “STAR” without a prefix “DHRUVA”. The petitioner says that th« 
Respondent No, 1 and the Swatantra Party with the consent of the Respondenl 



Sec. 8(il)] THE GA7ETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, I9fi2/VAISAKHA 22 , 1881 


1657 


No. 1 as his agent had used the prefix “DHRUVA" with a view to give religious 
impetus, and to appeal the voters to vote for the Respondent No. 1 and the 
Swatantra Party candidate in the name of religion by using religious symbol of 
“DHRUVA”. This amounts to corrupt practice within the meaning of section 
123(3) of Act 1051. 

17. The petitioner says that the Secretary of the Gujarat Kshatriya Sabha held 
conventions of kshatriya workers of the Taluka on the date and at the place 
shown below: — ■ 


Taluka 


Date 


Cambay . 
Anand . 
Petlad 
Matar 


30-1-62 

26-1-62 

21-1-62 

29-1-62 


Present at the said conventions were Respondent No. 1, said Shri Solanki, 
Chhastia, on Chhatrasing Shri Udesinh Vadodra, Narendrakumar Lala and others. 
The leaflet announcing the holding of the said conventions bears the emblem of 
“SOMNATH” and also recites the slogan of “JAI SOMNATH”. Marked Annexure 
“F” is the said leaflet. The petitioner says that the said conventions were sponsor- 
ed and held at the instance and/or with the consent of Respondent No. 1 with a 
view to solicit votes for him of his caste and community. The conventions were 
accordingly held at the aforesaid Taluka places in the presence of the aforesaid 
persons and they addressed the workers to vote for the Respondent No. 1 as a 
kshatriya. They also appealed the workers to canvass votes for Respondent No. 
1 of his community. The said conventions were attended by large number of 
kshatriya workers and leaders of the Taluka, The said speakers and in parti- 
cular the Respondent No. 1 and the said Shri Solanki also told the voters to vote 
for the Dhruva Star, the symbol of Swatantra Party in respect of Legislative 
Assembly of the Gujarat State and if they fail to vote for the Swatantra Party 
they would he failing In their kshatriya Dharma, as a true kshatriya would not 
be on the side of injustice. The Respondent No. 1 further told the voters that ‘‘I 
ENJOIN UPON EVERY KSHATRIYA TO BECOME GOOD KSHATRIYA.” The 
Respondent No. 1 also said that “WE HAVE NEVER SURRENDERED TO IN- 
JUSTICE NOR SHALL WE DO SO, THIS IS OUR PLEDGE; THIS IS OUR VOW; 
AND THE SAME IS OUR SUPPORT”, 


19, The said speakers thereby created an impression on the voters that the 
election was a fight, and by so doing aroused communal feelings in their mind 
and thereby appealed them to vote for Respondent No. 1 as also for the other 
candidates of the Swatantra Party. It was said by the Respondent No. 1 and 
Shri Solanki that Shri C. Rajagopalachari has laid foundation for the 
“SWATANTRA PARTY” Bhaikaka is beating “Rannaubat”. Kshatriyas are 
known for showing their khamir and when there is an invitation knocking our 
doors they should rise to the occasion to maintain their reputation. Finally he 
had told them to cast their votes for him and the Swatantra Party only and 
appealed to the voters to secure votes of other too. 


20. The petitioner says that similar conventions were held at Borsad, Thasra, 
Anand, Nadiad, Kapadwanj, Matar, Balasinor and Mahemdabad, In all the said 
conventions the Respondent No. 1 and the said Shri Solanki and Shri Chhastia 
were present among others and had made similar appeals to the voters m similar 
language. 


21, The petitioner says that by the said propaganda and by appealing the 
voters to vote for Respondent No. 1 and the candidate of the Swatantra Party the 
first Respondent himself and/or other persons mentioned herein as agents with 
the consent of the Respondent No. 1 interfered with the free or-rcise ot the 
electoral rights and by creating communal feeling made the voters to believe 
that they would fail in their kshatriya dharma if they did not vote for the res- 
pondent” No. 1 as a kshatriya and for the candidate of the swatantra party. It 
was a religious appeal, 

22. The petitioner says that the first Respondent and the Swatantra Paksha 
election propaganda committee at the instance of and/or with the consent of the 



1658 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA r MAY 12, I 902 /VAISARHA 22 , 1881 [Part U 


flr ?t Respondent sponsored public meeting at the following places on the dates 
and time shown against the villages. 



Name of Village 




Date 

Time 

Navali . 







21-T-62 

9 A.M. 

Napad (Khandhali Danipara, Vanshilipia) 



21-1-62 

7 P.M. 

Boriavi . 







22-1-62 

2 P.M. 

Lambhavel 







22-1-62 

4 P.M. 

Bakrol , 







22-1-62 

6 P.M, 

Karamsad 







22-1-62 

8 P.M, 

Adas 







23-1-62 

9 P.M. 

Mogar 







23-1-62 

12 Noon. 

Ramnagar 



, 




23-1-62 

2 P.M. 

Vera-Knadi 







23-1-62 

2 P t M. 

Kherda 



* 




23-1-62 

5 P.M. 

Vaaad (Anakalavadi Raiapura) , 




23-1-62 

8 P.M. 

Vaghasi , 







24-1-62 

9 P.M. 

Gamadi 







24-1-62 

10 P.M. 

Chi hodra 







24-1-62 

2 P.M. 

Rasnol . 







24-1-62 

5 P.M. 

Ajarpura 







24-1-62 

8 P.M. 

Gana 







25-1-62 

9 P.M. 

Meghava 







25-1-62 

10 P.M. 

Mogari . 







25-1-62 

2 P.M. 

Jitodia . 







2S-1-62 

4 P.M. 

Vadod . 







26-1-62 

11 A.M. to 5 P.M. 

Jor. 







26-1-62 

6 p.m. 

Valasan . 







26-1-62 

7 P.M. 

Sandhesar 







26-1-62 

8 P.M. 


The said villages are situated in the Parliamentary Constituency. The said meet- 
ings were announced in leaflets published by the swatantra party Election Pro- 
paganda Committee at the instance and with the consent of the first Respondent 
That the said leaflet also hears names of the said Shri Solanki and one— bhai 
Dadubhai who are the agents of the first Resp. Marked Annexure “G” is the said 
leaflet. The petitioner says that the said meetings were attended by a large number 
of voters. The petitioner further says that the said meetings were addressed by 
the said Shri Solanki and the said Shri Chimanbhai Dadubhai Desai and among 
other things had particularly appealed to the kshatriyas to vote for th> Respon- 
dent No. 1 as a kshatrlya and also asked them to vote for Shri Bhailalbhal Daya- 
bhai Patel by casting their votes for the candidate of swatantra paksha. 


23 . The petitioner further says that the meetings were announced to be held 
in following villages at the time shown against each village. 


Name of the Village 

Date 

Time 

Halgul-Gopalpara .... 

13-2-62 

9 A-M. 

Vagaal ...... 

13-2-62 

I P.M, 

Gamadi ...... 

13-2-62 

3 P.M. 

Anand ...... 

13-2-62 

8 P.M. 


The said announcement of the public meetings was made by circulating a leaflet 
published by the propaganda committee Anand Taluka, Swatantra Party. The 
petitioner says that the said leaflet was published and circulated at the instance 
and with the consent of the Respondent No. 1 , Marked Annexure “H” is the said 
leaflet. The petitioner says that the said meetings were attended by the first 
Respondent, the said Solanki and Shri Chhasatia and others. In each village 
number of voters attended the meeting held at the instance and in the presence 
of the Respondent No. 1 . The petitioner says that in the course of their address 
the first Respondent and Shri Chhasatia appealed particularly to the kshatrlya 
voters to vote for Respondent No. 1 and the other swatantra party candidates 
contesting election for the Legislative Assembly, namely for Shri Bhailalbhal 


Sec. 8(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 1962/VAISAK.HA 22, 1884 


I659 


Dyabhai Patel. The said meetings were also addressed by Shri Solankl who made 
.a similar appeal to the kshatriya voters. 

24. The petitioner further says that the Secretary of the Swatantra Party, 
Gujarat, at the instance and with the consent of the Respondent No. 1 and one 
Shri Bhallalbhai Dyabhai Patel of Anand published and circulated a leaflet 
announcing that a procession will be taken out on 23-2-1962 between 3 p.m. and 
4 p.m. from Azad Maidan under the leadership of the Respondent No. 1 and the 
said Shri Bhailalbhai Patel. It was also stated in the said leaflet that the said 

E rocesslon will be then converted into a public meeting at the place known as 
otia Bhagoi. Marked Annexure “I” is a copy of the said leaflet. The said locality 
is a place where several houses of kshatriyas are situated. That the procession 
was attended by nearly 15,000 voters out of whom nearly 5,000 to 6,000 voters 
were kshatriya who had come from other places of the said constituency. The 
said meeting was among others addressed by the Respondent No. 1, Shri Chasatia 
apd Shri Bhailalbhai Patel. All of them in the course of the address made a 
pressing appeal to the voters of the community of the Respondent No. 1 to vote 
for him as a kshatriya and also to vote for the swatantra party candidate Shri . 
Bhailalbhai Patel. They requested the voters to make both of them victorious. 


25. The petitioner says that the Annexures “A”, collectively "B", “C”, “D” and 
“E” were distributed by the agents of the Respondent No. 1, with his consent at 
all the meetings and conventions held by the Respondent No. 1 and his agents at 
the instance and with the consent of the Respondent No. 1. 


26. All the aforesaid corrupt practices left no free will to the voters in the 
exercise of their electoral rights and the same prevailed so evtenslvely that the 
•election was not a free election. 


27. The petitioner submits that the corrupt practices as set out herein above 
were committed by the first Respondent and by his agents with his consent. The 
petitioner also submits that the result of the election has been materially affected 
by the corrupt practices committed in the interest of the first Respondent by him- 
self and by his agents with his consent. The petitioner says that the election in 
the said constituency has not been a free election as corrupt practices of undue 
influence, of appealing to vote on the ground of religion, race, caste, and com- 
munity, appeal in the name of religion and use of and appeal to religious symbol and 
-of promoting feeling of hatred on the grounds of religion, race, caste and com- 
munity etc. were committed by the first Respondent and his agents with his 
consent. The petitioner submits that the second Respondent would have secured 
a considerably larger number of votes than she actually did and would have 
succeeded. The petitioner submits that but for the said corrupt practice, the 
first Respondent would have been defeated, The petitioner, therefore, submits 
ihat the election of first Respondent should be declared to be void and should be 
set aside. m 


28. Receipt of Rs. 2,000 deposited as required by S.117 of the Act of 1951 is 
lodged herewith. 


29. Under the circumstances the petitioner prays:— 

(a) That the election of the 1st Respondent be declared void and the 2nd 

Resoondent be declared elected or fresh election be directed to be 
held; 

(b) That the Respondent No, 1 be directed to pay the cost of this petition; 

(c) That such other appropriate relief be given as Is deemed necessary. 
Ahmedabad, 

Dated 10th April 1962. 

Sd/- Illegible. 

(Signature of the petitioner) 

I, Chhotabhai Desaibhai Patel, the petitioner residing at Ajrapura, this 10th 
■day of April 1962, verify that the contents of paragraphs 1, 3, 4, 5, 9 to 17 & 28 
sre correct to my own knowledge and the contents of paragraphs 2 to 9 and 12 



1660 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAK.HA 22, 1884 [Part II 


to 27 are correct to my belief based upon information received and believed to 
be true. 

Ahmedabad, 

this 10th day of April 1962. 

(Signature of the petitioned 

Drafted by 
Jashbhai B. Patel, 

Advocate, 

Gujarat High Court, 

Ahmedabad. 

Notes: Annexures ‘A’ to T not printed. 

[No. 82/216/62.J 
By Order, 

V, EAGHAVAN, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Expenditure) 

New Delhi, the 2nd May 1962 

SO. 1388.— In pursuance of clause (3) of article 77 of the Constitution and 
of all other powers enabling him in this behalf, the President hereby makes the 
following rules to amend the Delegation of Financial Powers Rules, 1958, namely: — 

1. These rules may be called the Delegation of Financial Powers (Ninth) 
Amendment Rules, 1962. 

2. They shall be deemed to have come into force on the 23rd April, 1962. 

3. In Schedule VII to the Delegation of Financial Powers RuleSj 1958, against 
the entries relating to the powers of ‘Heads of Departments' regarding write off 
of losses on account of "Deficiencies and depreciation In the value of stores 
included in the stock and other accounts”, as substituted by the Ministry’s notifica- 
tion No. F. 12(72)-EII(A)/01 dated the 3rd March, 1962, (Amendment No. Ill), 
the following shall be inserted in columns 2nd and 3, namely: — 


Col. 2 


Col. 3 


(vii) Director General of Health Services, 


5,000 


[No. F. 1 (20)-F,II( A) / 62.] 
C. R. KRISHNAMURTHI, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Economic Affairt) 

Nea DeBd, the 41k May, 1962 

8 * 0 . 1389. — Statement of the Again of the Reserve Bank of India, as cm the 27th April, 1962 


B&nung Depastme*t 


Liabilities 

Rs. 

Assets 

Rs. 

Capital paid up ....... 

5/»/o/oo 

Notes .... 

39,91,71,000 

Reserve Fund ..... 

80/0/0/00 

Rupee Coin ... 

2,88,000 

National Agricultural Credit (Long-term Operations) 
Fund 

50/0/0/00 

Subsidiary Coin . 

4,01 /OO 

National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation) Fund . 

6,00,00,000 

Bills Purchased and Discounted: — 


Deposits: — 


(a) Internal 


(a) Government 


(fr) External 


(1) Central Government .... 

53.63,59,000 

(c) Government Treasury Bills 

48,0249,000 

(2) Other Governments .... 

1448,50/00 

Balances held abroad* 

6,54,59,000 

(6) Banks ....... 

85,1437,000 

* *Loans and Advances to Governments 

110,25,23/00 

(c) Others .... 

153,04^8,000 

Other Loans and Advances! 

127,81,81,000 

Bills Payable 

304340/00 

Investments ..... 

172,66,66,000 

Other Liabilities ....... 

6338/1/00 

Other Assets ..... 

35 , 73 , 27 /»o 

Rupees 

541/1245,000 

Rupees 

541/245/00 


* Indudes Cash & Short-term Securities. 

*'* Includes Temporary Overdrafts to State Governments. 

tThe item ‘Other Loans and Advances’ indudes Rs. 930/0,000/- advanced to scheduled banks against usance bills under Section 17(4X0) of the 
Reserve Bank of India Act. 

Dated, the 2nd day of May, 1962. 


3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 x 66l 




An Account pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, for the week ended the 27th day of April, 1962 


Issue Department 


Liabilities 

Rs, 

Rs. 

Assets 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Notes held in the Banking Department 

Notes in circulation 

39 , 9 D 7 i 4 XO 

2123,04,45,000 


A. Gold Coin and Bullion: — 

( a ) Held in India . 

117,76,03,000 


Total Notes issued .... 


2162,96,16,000 

(6) Held outside India 

Foreign Securities . 

Total of A 

B. Rupee Coin 

Government of India Rupee 
Securities .... 

Internal Bills of Exchange and 
other commercial paper 

105.86,07,00 0 

223,62,10,000 

1 19.-32,75,00 :> 

1820,01,3 1,000 

Total T JAHTLifUj • ■ 


2162,96,16000 

Total Assets 


2162,96,16^)00 


P. C. Bhattachahyya, 

Dated the 2nd day of May, 1962. Governor. 


s 

il 

if 

ij 


[No. F. 3(2>-BC/62.] 
A- Baxsi, Jt. Secy. 


1662 THE GAZETTE of INDIA: MAY 12. 1DS2, VA1SAKIIA 22, 1884 (Run- Tk 


Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 1663 , 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

Income-tax 

New Delhi, the 4 th May 1962 

S.O. 1390. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
122 of Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), and in supersession of all the previous 
notifications in this regard, the Central Board of Revenue hereby directs that the 
Appellate Assistant Commissioners of Income-tax of the Ranges specified in 
column 1 of th? schedule below shall perform their functions in respect of all 
persons and incomes assessed to income-tax or super-tax in the Income-tax 
Circles, Wards and Districts specified in the corresponding entry in column 2 
thereof:— 

Schedule 

Range . 

Income-tax Circles, Wards and Districts 

I 

2 

‘A’ Range, Bangalore 

. . . 1 . Bangalore City Circle I. 

2 . Rural Circle, Bangalore. 

3 . Shimoga Circle. 

4 . Kolar Circle. 

5 . Estate Duty-cum-Income-Tax Circle, Bangalore. 

‘B’ Range, Bangalore 

. . . I. Bangalore City Circle II. 

2 . Salary Circle, Bangalore. 

3 . Special Investigation Circles ‘A’ & ‘B’ Bangalore. 

4 . Bcllary Circle. 

5 . Tumkur Circle. 

Mangalore 

. . . 1 . Mangalore Circle. 

2 . Coorg Circle. 

3 . Udipi Circle. 

4 . Mysore Circle. 

5 . Hasan Circle. 

6 . Estate Duty-caw- Income-tax Circle, Mangalore. 

Dharwar 

. , . 1 . All I icomc-tax Wards of Dharwar Districts having 

headquarters at Dharwar. 

2 . Karwar Circle. 

3 . Davngere Circle. 

4 . Raichur Circle. 

5 . Estate Duty-cwra-Income-tax Circle, Dharwar. 

6 . Chitaldurg Circle. 

Bclgaum 

. 1 . All Income-tax Wards of Bclgaum Districts having- 

headquarters at Bclgaum. 

2 . All Income-tax Wards of Bijapur District having 
headquarters at Bijapur. 

3 . Gulbarga Circle. 


Where an Income-tax Circle, Ward or District or part thereof stands trans- 
ferred by this notification from one Range to another Range, appeals arising out 
of assessments made in that Income-tax Circle, Ward or District or part thereof 
and pending immediately before the date of this notification before the Appellate 
Assistant Commissioner of the Range from whom that Income-tax Circle, Ward 
or District or part thereof is transferred shall, on and from the date this notifica- 
tion shall take effect be transferred to and dealt with by the Appellate Assistant. 
Commissioner of the Range to whom the said Circle, Ward or District or part' 
thereof is transferred. 

This notification shall come into force on 7th day of May, 1962. 



1664 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 10(1? /VAIS A EH A 22, 'RM l Past II 


Explanatory Note 

The amendments have become necessary on account of the Re-organisation of 
the Appellate Ranges, in the charge of the Commissioner of Income-tax, Mysore. 

(The above note does not form a part of th“ notification but is intended to be 
merely elariflcatory), 

[No, 19(F. No. 50/13 /62-IT).] 
New Delhi, the 7 th May 1962 

S.O. 1391. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
122 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) and in supersession of all previous 
notifications in this regard, the Central Board of Revenue hereby directs that the 
Apoellate Assistant Commissioners of Income-tax of the Ranges specified in 
column I of the schedule below shall perform their functions in respect of all 
persons and incomes assessed to income-tax or super-tax in the Income-tax Circles, 
Wards and Districts specified in the corresponding entry in column 2 thereof 

Schedui e 


Range 

l 


Income-tax Circles, Wards and District* 

2 


*' A ’ Range, Calcutta 
B ’ Range, Calcutta 
** C ’ Range, Calcutta 


D ' Range, Calcutta 


E ’ Range, Calcutta 

* F ’ Range, Calcutta 
G ’ Range, Calcutta 

* H ' Range, Calcutta 

* I ’ Range, Calcutta 


1. Companies District- -I, Calcutta. 

2. District- -II (3), Calcutta. 

1. Companies District — I, Calcutta. 

2. 24. Parganas. 

1. Companies District — III, Calcutta. 

2. Cinema Circle —I, Calcutta. 

3. Cinema Circle — II, Calcutta. 

4. Foreign Section, Calcutta. 

t. Estate Duty rum- Income-tax Circle, Calcutta. 

2. Non-companies (Income-tax cum Excess Profit* 
Tax), District — I, Calcutta. 

3. Non-companies (Income-tax cum Excess Profits 
Tax, District — II, Calcutta. 

4. Project Circle — I, Calcutta. 

5. Project Circle — II, Calcutta. 

6. Hooghly. 

1. District, V, Calcutta. 

2. District — -V (1), Calcutta. 

3. District — V (2), Calcutta. 

4. District- -IV (3), Calcutta. 

5. Special Survey Circle — V, Calcutta. 

6. Special Survey, Circle — X, Calcutta. 

t , District — I (1), Calcutta. 

2, District- -II (2), Calcutta. 

3. Special Survey Circle — VII, Calcutta. 

1. Special Survey, Circle — III, Calcutta. 

2. District- -I (2), Calcutta. 

3. District — III (2), Calcutta. 

1. Special Circle — I, Calcutta. 

2. Cases which have been assigned and which will be 
assigned from time to time by the Board. 

3. District — III (1), Calcutta. 

1. Special Circle — II, Calcutta. 

2. Cases which have been assigned and which will 
be assigned from time to time by the Board. 

3. Special Survey Circle— I, Calcutta. 

4. Murishidabad. 

Companies District — IV, Calcutta. 

6. District — VII, Calcutta. 

7. Nadia. 


Sec, 3(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 ^65 


Range 

Income-tax Circles, Wards and Districts 

J ’ Range, Calcutta 

1 . District - — IV ( 2 ), Calcutta. 

2 . Special Survey Circle— VI, Calcutta. 

3 . District — VI, Calcutta. 

Burdwan Range 

. 1 . Burdwan. 

2 . Birbhum. 

3 . Asansol. 

4. Bankura— Purulia. 

Jalpaiguri Range 

1 . Jalpaiguri Income-tax Circle, Jalpaiguri, 

2 . Darjeeling Income-tax Circle, Siliguri. 

M ’ Range, Calcutta 

1 . Special Survey Circle — II, Calcutta. 

2 . Special Survey Circle — VIII, Calcutta. 

3 . Special Survey Circle — IX, Calcutta. 

4 . Howrah, 

‘ N ’ Range, Calcutta 

1 . Case s which have been assigned and which will 
be assigned from time to time by the Board. 

2 . Midnapore. 

3 . Special Survey Circle — IV, Calcutta. 

‘ 0 ’ Range, Calcutta 

. 1 . Cooch-Behar. 

2 . Refund Circle, Calcutta. 

3 . District IIIA, Calcutta. 

4 . District VA, Calcutta. 

5 . Central Salaries Circle, Calcutta. 

6. Railways & Miscellaneous Salaries Circle, Calcutta, 

‘ P ’ Range, Calcutta 

1 . WestDinajpur— Malda. 

2 , District — IV ( 1 ), Calcutta. 


Where an Income-tax Circle, Ward or District or part thereof stands trans- 
ferred by this notification from one Range to another Range, appeals arising out 
of assessments made In that Income-tax Circle, Ward or District or part thereof 
and pending immediately before the date of this notification before the Appellate 
Assistant Commissioner of the Range from whom that Income-tax Circle, Ward 
or District or part thereof is transferred shall, from the date this notification shall 
take effect, be transferred to and dealt __wlt.h by the Appellate Assistant Com- 
missioner of the Range to whom the said Circle, Ward or District or part thereof 
is transferred. 

This notification shall take effect from 14th day of May, 1902. 

Explanatory Note 

The amendments have become necessary on account of the Re-organisation of 
the Appellate Ranges hi the charge of the Commissioner of Income-tax, West 
Bengal, Calcutta. 

(The note does not form a part of the notification but is merely clariflcatory) . 

[No. 21 (F. No. 50/16 /62-IT).] 
D. V. JUNNARKAR, Upder Secy. 


Customs 

New Delhi, the 12 th May 1962 

8.0. 1392. — In exercise of the rowers conferred bv clauses (cl and (d) section 
rl of the Sea Customs Act. 1878 (8 of 18781, the Central Board of Revenue hereby 
makes the following further amendments to its notification No> 197-Customs dated 
the 28th June, 1958, namely: — 

In the Schedule to the said notification. 

(1) for the existing entries relating to wharf N 01 21 , the following shall be 


substituted, namely 

“Cochin Port 21 Cochin 

2 nd Coal herth-R.C, plaTo-m 

AU cargo 

Landing 

Port 

40 ft. wii? and 310 ’ long; th ce 

gnd 

Authority 

apprach arms, 20 ft, wide and 


Shipping”; 


1 1 5 ' long connecting the 
p3wfor*i to shore. 





1 666 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, I962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 [Part II 


( 2 ) after the entries relating to wharf No. 21 as so substituted, the following 


New Wharf on the Emakulan All goods Landing 
side .of Willingdon Island — and 

Northernmost berth out of Shipping", 

the 4 deep water berths under 
construction, plus loo' length 
of the wha f at the North and 
which is shallow the total 
length being 6 oo' capable of 
berthing one medium size 
steamer. The northern and 
western sides are walled up 
while on the southern sides 
construction of the other berths 
is in progress The Eastern side 
faces the backwater on the 
Emakulam side. 

[No. 67/F. No. 84/2/62-Cus. IV.] 
S. VENKATESAN, Secy. 

COLLECTORATE OF CENTRAL EXCISE, PATNA 
(Bhagalnur Division) 

NOTICE 

Patna, the 12 th May 1962 

S-O. 1393.— Whereas it appears that the goods as mentioned in the under- 
mentioned table seized In the vicinity of the Indo-Paklstan border at Pakur 
Railway Station, were Imported by land from Pakistan In contravention of the 
Rules and Notifications as mentioned against each. 


shall be added, namely: — 

"Cochin Port 22 Cochin 
Port 

Authority 


sn 

No. | 

Date & place of 
seizure 

By whom detected 1 

Descrip- Quantity Rules contravened 

tion 

of goods 

1 

2 

3 

4 5 6 


i. i a.m. on 30 th De- 
cember, 1961 , 328 
Down train at 
Pakur Railway 
Station. 


1 . Shri B. Mukher- Cinna- Sixty 

fee, Dy. Superin- mons in Kilo- 
tendent. two grams. 

2 . Shri V. A. Menon gunny 
P.I.O., Bhagalpur bags. 

Divisional Office. 

3 . Shri Badri Prasad, 

Sub-Inspector. 

4 . Shri Tcwary, 

Sepoy. 

5 . Shri Ambika 
Singh, Sepoy of 
Customs and Cen- 
tral Excise. 


Section 5 ( 1 ) of the 
Land Customs Act, 
1924 , Section 3 of 
Import Export con- 
trol act, 1947 and 
Section 19 of the 
Sea Customs Act, 
1878 . tj 


2. Now, therefore, any person claiming the goods is hereby called upon to 
show cause to the Assistant Collector of Central Excise and Land Customs, 
Bhagalpur Division, Bhagalnur why the above mentioned goods should not be 
confiscated under Section 5(3) of the Land Customs Act, 1924 read with Section 
167(8) and 168 of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 and why a penalty should not bo 
Imnosed on him under Section 7(1) (C) of tho Land Customs Act, 1924, read with 
Section 167(8) of the Sea Customs Act, 1878, 

3. If such an owner fails to turn up to claim the above mentioned unclaimed 

goods or to show cause against the action proposed to be taken within 15 days 
from the date of publication of this notice in the Government of India Gazette, 
the goods in ffuesthm Will be Treated as unclaimed and the case will be decided 
accordingly, ( 

[No. VIII(10)2/62.] 
B. P, SEN GUPTA, Asstt, Collector. 





■Sec. 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1667 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CUSTOMS AND CENTRAL EXCISE, 

PUBLIC NOTICE 
Central Excise 

Pondicherry, the 24 th April, 1962 

Subject; — Central Excise — Finance Bill 1962 — Imposition of Central Excise duty 
on certain articles and changes in the existing rates of duty. 

8.0. 1394. — It is notified lor the information of the Trade that Central Excise 
duty has been imposed on the undermentioned articles for the first time with 
effect from 24th April 1962 by the Finance (2) Bill 1962 at the rates noted below 
against each: — 

Annexure 1(B) 

1962 (April) Budget Proposals at a glance 
(NEW ITEMS) 

SI. Commodity Tariff Rate of duty Duty exemption if any 

No. Item 

No. 



1 All products derived from 11 A 5 % ad valorem- 

refining of crude petrol- 
eum, N.O.S. 

2 Acids (Nitric, Hydrochloric, 14G 10% ad valorem. 

Rulphuric and their anhy- 
drides). 

3 Gases (compressed, liquified 14H 

or soldlfied). 


(0 Oxygen 
til) Chlorine 
(ui) Ammonia 
(iv) Carbonic acid 
(carbon dioxide) 
^u) Refrigerant gases. 


1 0% ad valorem. 

50% ad valorem 
20% ad valorem. 


(f) Gases used in the same 
factory for manufacture of 
other excisable goods not 
to be charged to duty. 


(it) Tariff value for ammonia 
fixed. 


4. Rubber products, the 16A 
following — 

(f) Latex foam sponge . 20% ad valorem *(1) By exemption notifica- 

tion the effective rates of 
duty on ‘Latex, foam 
‘sponge* and camel back 
have been fixed as Ru 
1 '25 per Kg. and 80 nP 
per Kg. respectively. 

j (ii) Plates, sheets and 20% ad valorem 

strips. 

*(m) All other products have been exempted. 


j Plywood and allied Products 

(t) Plywood for tea chests 16B 
(if) Ail others 


6 Jute manufactures 22A 

(0 Hessian 


(if) All others 


By exemption notification 
10% ad volorem the effective rates of duty 

15% ad valorem on plywood for tea 

chests has been fixed 30 
nP. per Sq. metre. 


Rs. 2 jo per metric Yarn waste, waste yarn 
tonne chindics and rags exempt- 

ed. 

Rs. 125 per metric 
tonne. 


1668 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 [Part tl 


I 


2 


3 4 


5 


7 Asbestos cement products . 

& Iron and steel products 

(i) Bars, rods, coils 
wires, etc. 


(it) Plates and sheets in- 
cluding Galvanised 
or corrugated plates 
and sheets. 

(tit) Uncoated plates and 
sheets intended for 
tinning. 


(tv) Pipes and rubes, 
rolled, forged or 
cast. 

( v ) All other steel cast- 
ings. 

9 Electric wires and circles all 
sorts N.O.S. 

(i) Insulated wires de- 
signed to work in 
circuit of less than 
10 amperes and at a 
pressure not exceed- 
ing 250 volts. 

(it) All others 

10 Gramophones, parts and 
accessories and gra- 
mophone-records. 

(*) gramophones, or 
record players, in- 
cluding radiograms. 


23 C 10% ad valorem 
26AA 

5% ad valorem-, plus 
duty on pig iron or 
steel ingots as the 
case may be. 


7-i/ 2 % ad valorem 
plus duty on pig 
iron or steel as the 
case mav be. 

Do. 


5 % ad valorem plus 
duty on pig iron 
or steel as the case 
may be. 

5 % ad valorem plus 
duty on steel ingot. 
33B 

15% ad valorem 


5% ad valorem 


37A 

20% ad valorem 


CO Iron ard steel manufac- 
tures if made from duty 
paid pig iron steel in- 
gots exempted from the 
duty equivalent to duty 
leviable under item 25 
or 26. 

(it) Castings (other than 
pipes and tubes) of weight 
below 1 tonne exempted. 

(iii) Products falling under 
sub-tiem (it) to (v) if 
made from products 
having paid duty under 
sub-item to be given 
benefit of the duty pay- 
able under sub-item (t). 


(1) By exemption Notifica- 
tion the following specific 
rates have been fixed for 
records and needles. 

Records : 


(a) parts and accessories 


(iii) gramophone records 
all sorts other than 

matrices. 


(to) Matrices for records 
impressed. 

(v) Needles for style 


(a) Wholly made of steel 

(b) Others 


30% ad valorem 


ij % ad valorem 


30% ad valorem. 


20% ad valorem 
25 % ad valorem 


(t) designed to play at revo- 
lution exceeding 70 
R.P.M. 35 nP. 


(it) designed to 
play at revo- 
lutions in 
excess of 40 
but not 70 
R.P.M. 

(tit) Others 

Needles if 
made of steel 


70 nP. 
each. 


Ra. 2 -jo 
each. 

25 nP. for 
every 200 
or fraction 


(2) All parts 
except the 
essential ones 
have been 
exempted. 




*W- Hii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1384 


1669 


2. The manufacturers of the above articles within the state of Pondicherry 
should: — 

(i) apply to the Collector of Customs and Central Excise, Pondicherry 

for a Central Excise Licence in form A.L. 4 furnishing the details 
required therein, for the manufacture, storage and disposal of such 
excisable commodities; 

(ii) obtain the licence in form L. 4 granted by the competent authority 

under the jurisdiction of the Collector of Customs and Central 
Excise Pondicherry; 

(iii) clear such excisable commodities from the factory on payment of the 

Central Excise duty at the appropriate rates by presenting the appli- 
cation for clearances in the proper form and duly permitted by the 
proper Central Excise Officer; 

(iv) maintain accounts of the production, storage and clearance of such 

excisable commodities in the proper form and submit returns in 
forms R.T. 3, R.T. 4 and R.T. 5; and 

(v) observe all the Central Excise formalities as required under the 

Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 and the rules made thereunder. 

3. The following changes in the first schedule to the Central Excises and Salt 
Act, 1944 have been introduced by the Finance (2) Bill 1962 and they are 
reproduced below for the information of the trade: — 

Annextjke 1(A) 

1962 (April) Budget Proposals at a Glance 
(EXISTING ITEMS) 


SI. 

No. 

Tariff 

Item 

Commodity 

Unit Existing 
rate of 
duty 

Proposed 
rate of 
duty 

Remarks 

1 

2 

3 

4 5 

6 

1 




Basic Duty 



l 

3 (t) Loose tea . 

. Kg. 





Zone I 

J 3 

10 nP- 

15 nP. 

The zones have been 
renumbered as I, II, 


Zone II 

Zone III A 

Zone III B 

' 3> 

J> , , 

■ )) 

15 nP. 

2} nP. 

35 nP. 

25 nP. 

30 nP. 
(Darjeel- 
%) 3 S nP. 
(Cithers.) 
45 nP. 

III, IV and V, res 
pectivcly. 


(ii) Export rebate 

7 * 

Nil 

15 nP- 

The rebate trill 1 be 
given by adjust- 
ment in the export 
duty. 


2 4 (i) Unmanufactured 


tobacco. 

Sub-items 


I (T) 


. Kg. 

Rs. 2 'jo 

Rs, 2- 60 


W : 


* n 

■ ) ) 

Rs. 16-50 
Rs. 2 20 

Rs. 16 90 
Rs. 2-25 


1(4) 


* 3 » 

Rs, 2 00 

Rs. 2-05 


I(J) 


* 

Rs. f -14 

Rs, 2 25 

The entry relating to 





(Rawa) 

Rs. X -20 

rawa has been 
omitted from sub- 

1(6) 

# 

* ii 

Rs. 2*20 

(others) 
Rs. 2 25 

item 1 ( 5 ). 


i<5 70 UAzilTTfc OF INDIA :MAV 12, [9t£!/VAlSARHA 22 , 1854 |Pa*t II 


■ -- " 1 ■ ■ • ■ - 

I 

1 

3 


4 

5 

6 


7 



(2) Cigarettes 

Existing tariff to be replaced as below : — 
Cigarettes of which the value per 1000. 


Date of duty per 1000 cigarettes 


Ecxceed Rs- Does not exceed Rs, Rs. 

(0 35 25-30 

00 25 35 12-95 

m t 5 25 6-65 

(tv) 7.50 15 2-90 

W 750 1-30 

Motor Spirits . Present complete exemption in respect of Benzene, 

Benzol, Toluene, Toluol, power alcohol and light 
solvent Naptha used for special industrial purposes 
modified instead of complete exemption a duty of 
5% ad valorem will now be charged. 

Refined diesel oil and vapo- The exemption in respect of certain mineral oils 
rising oil. falling under this item has also been similarly 

modified. 

11 Asphalt and Bitumen . (») A new sub-item “Tar” has been added with 27% 

ad valorem as the rate of duty. 

(ii) Tar used as fuel in the manufacturing factory 
exempted from duty. 


V.N. E. Oils 

(I) Units employing upto 4 . , Nil Oil produced in such 

ahanies/ChckkuB etc. of units have been 

Bengal Type or 2 of any exempted, 

other type. 

(a) Groundnut Oil and . . . . , . Compounded rate 

caator Oil. for these oils will 

be 15% higher 
than the rates pres- 
cribed for other 
oils (except coconut 
oil.) 

(ui) Licence fee — Revised 
as below. 

(a) if the duty payable is 

nil or not more than 

Rs. 1,000/- in a year. , . .. Rs. 75 

(b) if the duty payable in a 

year exceeds Rs. 

1,000. Rs. too 

Vegetable Product 
Slab exemptions for the first 
30,000 quintals with- 
drawn. 

Faints and Varnishes. 

(0 Cellulose Lacquers. 

This sub-item has been revised ; the effect is that 

(a) Nitroc ellulose ancillsries In liquid form is to be assessed at Rs. 1-40 per litre 

as nitrocellulose Lacquers : 

(b) A new sub-item for other cellulose lacquers has been provided — rate of duty 

Rs. 1-40 per litre. 

Dyes : Tariff definition changed. 

Patent and Proprietary Medicines. 

(0 Definition changed to include branded medicines. 

(11) Rate of duty 10% ?1% 


By notification 


Sec. 3(H)] THF GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 19S2/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1671 


11 


14E 


15 


Cosmetics and Toilet prepa- 
rations. 


Soap- 

Exemption revised and re- 
duced as below : — 

(i) Soap produced with the 
aid of power 

(a) Household and laundry'! 

soap — '50 tonnes. 1 

( b ) Toilet, monopole or f Complete exemption. 

textile soap — 25 tonnes J 
(it) Soap produced without 
the aid of power 

(a) first 100 tonnes — free 

(b) next 200 tonnes— . partial exemption at the 

current concessional rates. 


Condition of eligibi- 
lity for the exemp- 
tions slightly 
changed. 


12 15A Plastics : 

A new sub-item “(in) Not otherwise specified” has been 
added. 


13 17 


14 18 


15 18A 


Paper — 

§ Newsprint 
) Straw board 

(Hi) Pulp board NOS 


Exemption withdrawn. 

Exemption limits rounded 
up to 125 and 375 metric 
tonnes respectively. 

(a) Exemption limits 

rounded up. 

(b) Exemption will be avail- 
able only to such manu- 
facturer whose annual 
output of all paper and 
paper boaid taken to- 
gether does not exceed 
5000 metric tonnes. 


Rayon and synthetic fibre 


and yarn. — 

Tariff rate 

Kg. 

Rs. 

3-35 

Rs. 

450 


Effective rate : 

(1) Rayon yarn 

(i) Below 75 deniers 

Kp.i 

Rs. 

300 

Rs. 

400 


lit) 75 — 100 deniers ] 

43 

225 

300 


(1 Hi ) above 100 kg. 

14 

1-50 

200 


(2) Staple fibre yarn 

3J 

Nil 

Nil 


(31 Staple fibre <1 

>1 

0-75 

1 -00 


(4) Godet waste 

11 

0-75 

I'OO 


Cotton yam — 

Tariff rates — ■ 

(1) of 35 or more count! . 

Kg. 

15 nP. 

30 nP. 


(2) of less than 33 counts . 

Kg. 

10 nP. 

15 nP. 


Effective Rates : 

(1) of 48 or more counts . 

Kg. 

15 nP. 

27 nP. 

Effective rate afixed by 

(2) of 35 or more but less 

Kg. 

13 nP. 

18 nP. 

notification. 

Yam issued in hank 

than 48 counts 

(3) of 17 or more but less 

Kg- 

10 nl\ 

13-5 nPi 

will have concession 
of 10 nP per kg. so 
that the effective 
rate per kg, for such 
yam. 

VPill be 17 nP. 8 HP. 

Rian 33 counts 



3- 5 nP, and nij 
respectively. 


_L 




1HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 [Part II 


I 


2 


3 


4 3 6 


7 


(4) of less than 17 counts kg. 10 nP. 


10 nP. Compounded rates 

have been fixed 

separately. 


16 18B 


J 7 19 


Woollen yam 
(a) Tariff rate 


(1) Worsted yam 


10% ad 
valorem 

15% ad- 
valorem 

(2) Others 


5% ad 

7-5% ad 



valorem 

valorem 

(b) Compounded rates : 




(1) Worsted yam 




(a) of 60 counts 

Kg. 

2-10 

3*25 

advalorem. 



(b) of less than 60 counts 

Kg. 

1 -60 

2 -jo 

(2) Others 

Kg. 

0-40 

0-6o 

Cotton fabrics 




(a) Duty at grey stage 

SQ. 

Rs. nP. 

Rs. nP. 


metre 



(1) Superfine 

99 

29-3 

27-5 

(2) Fine 

M 

22' I 

0-20 

(3) Medium A 

99 

90 

0-08 

(4) Medium B 

99 

6-0 

o-oj 

(5) Coarse 

99 

4-8 

0‘03 


(b) Differential duty on 
processed cloth 

ft) Bleaching . „ 

(2) Dyed, printed, „ 

mercerised. 

(3) Shrink-proofing etc. . „ 


inP. - ) 5 nP. For bleaching dyeing & 
3nP. 1. printing. 

6nP. J 25 nP. for all other processes. 


(e) Powcrloom— - . ( t) manufacturers employing upto 4 powerlooms 

exempted. 

(it) Revised compounded rates fixed for manu- 
facturers employing 5 to 49 looms, 

(fit) if 50 or more powerlooms are installed to pay 
the standard rates. 


18 21 Woollen Fabrics 

The following changes have been made by notification : — 

(i) unprocessed fabrics have been exempted from duty, including additional 
duty and handloom cess. 

(it) processed fabrics will pay basic duty @5 % ad valorem and the additional duty 
and handloom cess at existing rates. 

(iff) Compounded levy allowed to smaller units is being withdrawn. 

19 22 Rayon and Artsilk fabrics. 

As in the case of woollen fabrics, the following changes have been made by notifica- 
tion in this case also : — 

(i) Unprocessed fabrics completely exempted. 

(it) processed fabrics to pay basic duty at 3 5 nP. per sq. metre and additional 
duty and handloom cess at the full tariff rates. 

(tit) Compounded levy system is being withdrawn, 

20- 23 Pig iron "j Pig iron and steel ingots made from old scrap or 

21- 26 Steel ingots V scrap of duty paid metal have been exempted. 


3p '26A Copper and alloys. 

(f) Crude metal 
(fi) Manufactured 


Tonne , . Rs. 10O 
it R». 300 Rs» 300 


This is a new sub-item 
if made from duty 
paid crude metal 
the effect rate will 
be Rs. 200!- per 
tonne. 




it ■ 




Sec. j)(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: mAy 12, 1962 /VAIsAk.HA 22, 1884 1673 


3 4 5 6 7 


24 


Aluminium. 

(i) foils 

Air conditioning machinery 
Refrigerators 


Tonne Rs. 500 Rs. 600 This has been put in a 

separata sub- item. 

~] These two items have been combined with a 
y new tariff description and the scope lias 

J been somewhat widened. 


26 


27 


23 


29 


30 


(t) Complete 
(j'0 Parts 


25 ‘30 Electric Moron 


20% ad 20% ad 
valorem valorem 

20% ad 30% ad by notification, 

valorem valorem but certain essen- 

tial parts hare been 
exempted. 

An explanation has baen added to this item to 
exclude electric motors used in gramo- 
phones from the scope of this item. 


31 

Electric Batteries. 

Plates produced in a factory 

Nil 

10% ad 

By notification. 


employing not more than 

5 workers. 


valorem 


32 

Electric Bulbs 

Miniature bulbs No 

Nil 

Rates 

The exemption has 




varying 
from 2 nP. 

been modified. 




to ionP. 
each. 


33A 

Wireless receiving sets . 

. , 


Specific rates of duty 





have been fixed by 





exemption noti- 

fication. 


34 Motor-Vehicles, 
sub-items 

(1) Auto cycles etc. . No. Rs. 175 Rs. 175 

each. Or 1 \°L 

ad valorem 
whichever 
is higher. 

(2) Motor Vehicles of not No. j Rs, 1000 Rs. tooo 

more than 16 H.P. or 10% 

ad valorem 
whichever 
is higher. 


38 Matches. . The effective rates of matches for 50’ s. have been 

increased roughly by 50 nP, per gross, except in 
rhe case ot ‘B’ class factories where the increase is 
47 nP. per gross. Rates for matches oi 40’s 
(bamboo splints) have also been proportionately 
increased. 


The introduction of excise duties as aforesaid on new articles and changes 
in the existing rates of Central Excise duty in respect of the aforesaid items 
come into force from the mid-night of the 23rd/24th April, 1962. 

fNo. 2/1962,] 
M. V. N. RAO, Collector 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY 

New Delhi, the 3 rd May 1962 

S.O. 1395. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 14 of the Standards 
of Weights and Measures Act, 1956 (89 of 1956), the Central Government hereby 



1^74 THE GAZETTE Of INDIA: May 12, 1962/VAlSAk.kA 22, 1884 [Part II 


makes the following amendment in Notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Commerce and Industry S.O. 1222 dated the 30t.h May, 1961, 
namely: — 

In the said notification, for the words "not exceeding one year”, the words 
"not exceeding sixteen months” shall be substituted. 

[No. SMC-15(3)/62.J 
K . V. VENKATACHALAM, Jt. Secy. 

New Delhi, the 4th May 1962 

S.O. 1396. — The Central Government, having considered in consultation with 
the Forward Markets Commission, the application fur recognition made under 
section 9 of the Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1952 (74 of 1952) by The 
Ludhiana Grain Exchange Limited, Ludhiana, and being satisfied that it would 
be in the interest of the trade and also in the public interest so to do, hereby 
grants, In exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 of the said Act, recogni- 
tion to the said Exchange for a period of three years ending the 11th May, 1965 
In respect of forward contracts in gur. 

2. The recognition hereby granted Is subject to the condition that the said 
Exchange shall comply with such directions as may from time to time be given 
by the Forward Markets Commission. 

[No. 34(4)-TMP/FMC/62.] 
T. S. KUNCHITHAPATHAM, Under Secy. 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 5th May 1962 

S.O. 1397. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1965, the Central Government hereby directs that the power 
to make orders under clauses (f) and (j) of sub-section (2) of Section 3 of the 
said Act shall, in relation to any non-ferrous metal to which the Non-Ferrous 
Metals Control Order 1958 for the time being applies, be exorciseable also by the 
Development Officer (Metals) — Dr. P, Dayal. 

This is in supersession of S.O. No. 2163, dated the 28th September, 1959, and 
will take effect from 7th May 1962. 

[No. 5(2) /MET/02.] 
N. CHIDAMBARAM, Dy. Secy. 




Nets Delhi, the ~th May, 1962 t 

S. 0 . 1398, — -In exercise of the powers conferred bv the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following 
rules namely : — 

1. Short title. — -These rules may be called the S mal l Scale Industries Organisation (.Class III— Ministerial Posts) Recruitment Rules, 1962. 

2. Application. — These rules shall apply for recruitment to the posts in the Small Scale Industries Organisation specified in column 2 of the 
Schedule annexed hereto. 

3. Number, classification and scale of pay. — -The number of posts, their classification and the scales of pay attached to them shall be as 
specified in columns 3 to 5 of the said Schedule. 

4. Method of recruitment, age limit and other qualifications. — The method of recruitment, age limit, qualifications and other matters 
connected therewith shall be as specified in columns 6 to 12 of the Schedule aforesaid: 

Provided that the maximum ageLimit prescribed fordirect recruitment may be relaxed in the case of persons belonging to the ScheduiedCastes/ 
Tribes, and other special categories in accordance with the orders issuedby the Central Government frem time to time. 

5. Disqualification. — -(i) No person, who has more than one wife living or who having a spouse living, marries in any case in which such 
marriage is void by reason of its taking place during the life time ot such spouse, shall be eligible for appointment to the pest 1 . 

(2) No woman, whose marriage is void by reason of the husband having a wife living at the time of such marriage, or_ who has married a person 
who has a wife living at the time of such marriage, shall be eligible for appointment to the posts : 

Provided that the Central Government may, if satisfied that there are special grounds for so ordering, exempt any person from the operation of 
this rule. 


Sec 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 1675 



Schedule 

(See rules 2, 3 and 4) 


Serial Name of post 
No. 


No. of Classifi- 
posts cation 


Scale of pay Whether Agelimit 
selection for 
post or direct 
non-selec- recruits 
tion post 


Educational Whether age 
and other and educa- 
qualifications tional 
required qualifications 
prescribed for 
the direct 
recruits will 
apply in the 
case of 
promotees 


Period of Method of 
probation, recruitment 
if any whether by 
direct 

recruitment 
or transfer 
and percentage 
of vacancies 
to be filled 
by various 
methods 


In case of 
rectt. by pro- 
motion/transfer, 
grades from 
which promotion 
to be made 


1 2345678 9 10 11 12 


1 Gestetner _ 2 Class III Rs. Non- Not Not Not 

Operator (Senior) Ministerial 110-3-125 selection applicable applicable applicable 

(Non- 

Headquarters ") gazetted) 

Office . . 1 I 

Small Industries y 
Service Institute, j 
Bombay . 1 j 


One year Cent percent By promotion of 
by promotion gestetner opera- 
failing which tor (junior) 
by transfer. with not less 

than three years’ 
experience in 
the grade. By 
transfer of per- 
sons in similar 
or equivalent 
grade from other 
Central Govt. 
Offices. 


[No. 25-SSI(c)(29) 61.] 

K. N. R. PILLAI, Under Secy. 


1676 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 [Part fi 



Sfc 3(ii)] THE O \7FTTE OF INDTA : MAY 12, 1%2/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1677 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 5th May 1962 

S.O. 1399/IDRA/6/17.— In pursuance ot Clause (C) of Rule 2 of the Develop- 
ment Councils (Procedural) Rules, 1952, the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shn N. Nurasimhan, Assistant Development Officer, Development Wing, New 
Delhi, as the Secretary of the Development Council established by the Order of 
the Government of India In the Ministry of Commerce & Industry No. S.O. 1258 
dated the 17th April, 1962 for the scheduled industries engaged in the manufacture 
or Droduction of Paper, Pulp and Allied Industries, with effect from the 17th 
April, 1962. 


[No. 4(38)L.Pr./61.] 


CORRIGENDUM 


New Delhi, the 5th May 1962 

S.O. 1400. — In the Ministry of Commerce and Industry Order No. S.O. 819 
dated the 16th March 1962 (as amended from time to time), published in Part II 
Section ,'i Sub-Section (ii) of the Gazette of India dated the 24th March, 1962: 

For 21, Shri J. K. Jayawant, Secretary, Rashtriva Mill Mazdoor Sangh, 25, 
Government Gate Road, Parel, Bombay-12. 

Read 21. Shri G. K. Jayawant, Secretary, Rashtriya Mill Mazdoor Sangh, 
Parel Tank Road. Parel, Bombay-12, 


LNo. l(3)L.Pr./62.1 
B. R. ABHYANKER, Under Secy. 


Patents and Destons 
New Delhi, the 4th May 1962 

S.O. 140J. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 72 of the Indian 
Patents and Designs Act. 1911 (2 of 1911), the Central Government hereby 
appoints the Director. Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, for the purposes 
of the said section and makes the following further amendment in the notification 
of the Government of India In the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, No. S.R.O. 
681 dated the 23rd March, 1955, namely. — 

In the said notification, after item No. (25), the following item shall be added, 
namely: — 

“(26) The Director, Indian Institute of Technology, P.O. Kharagpur Tech- 
nology, Kharagpur, S. E. Rly.” 


[No. 16(5)-TMP/62.1 
J. C. ELING, Under Secy. 


(Indian Standards Institution) 

New Delhi, the 30 th April 1962 

S.O. 1402. — In pursuance of sub-regulations (2) and (3) of regulation 3 
of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955, the 
Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that the Indian Standard, particulars 
of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed, has been established during 
the period 16th April to 30th April 1962. 



167 S THE GA^ETTF OF INDIA MAI 12, 1962/VAISAkllA 22, 1 88 1 [P\Kr II 


The Schedule 


No and Title of the Indian 
Standard established 

No and Title of the 
Indian Standard 
or Standards, if 
any, superseded 
by the new Indian 
Standard 

Brief Partic liars 

(-21 

(3) 

( 4 ) 


IS 1981-1962 Specification for 
A limal Casings for Sausages 


This standard prescribes tht 
requirements and the methods 
ot test for animal casings 
derived from sheep and goats, 
cattle and hogs (Price 
Rs 2 50 ) 


Copies of this Indian Stundaid are available, for sale, with the Indian 
Standards Institution Manak Bhavan, 9, Mathura Road New Dclhi-1, and also 
at its Branch Offices at ( 1 ) 232 Di Dadabhoy Naorop Road, Fort, Bombay- 1 , 
(ll) Third Floor, 11, Sooteikm Street, Calcutta-13, ( 111 ) 2/21, First Line Beach, 
Madras-1, and (iv) 14/69, Civil Lines, Kanpur 


[No MD/13 2 ] 


S O. 1403. — In partial modification of the rate of marking fee foi Macaroni, 
Spaghetti and Vencelli, notified in the Schedule annexed to the Ministry of 
Commerce and Industry (Indian Standards Institution), Notification No S O 773, 
dated 28th March 1961, published in the Gazette of India, Part II — Section 3 — 
Sub-section ( 11 ), dated the 8 th April 1961, the Indian Standards Institution 
heieby notifies that the marking fee per unit for Macaroni, Spaghetti and Vermi- 
cel'i details of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed, has been revis- 
ed The levised rate of marking fee shall come into forre with effect from 
15th April 1962 


The Schedule 


SI Prolu t/CUis of Product No and Title of relevant Unit Marking Fee per Unit 
No Indian Standard 


1 Ml carom, Spaghetti an 1 IS 1485 -T 959 Specification One 2 nP per unit with a 
Vermicelli for Macaroni, Spaghetti kg minimum of Rs 1,000 00 

and Vermicelli for production during 

a calendar year 


[No MD/18 2 ] 


New Delhi, the 3rd May 1962 

SO 1404 —In partial modification of the Standard Marks notified in the 
Schedule annexed to the Mmistiy of Commerce and Industry (Indian Standards 
Institution! Notification No SO 420, dated the 11th February 1959 published 
in the Gazette of India, Part. II Section 3 — sub-section (n), dated the 21st 
February 1959, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that the Standard 
Marks for Antifriction Bearing Alloys all grades, design of which together with 
the verbal description of the design and the title of the relevant Indian Standard 
Is given in the Schedule hereto annexed, have been specified. 


Sec, 9(li)] fHft OA: , , Ot 


A: MAY 12, /vaIsA a $2, 


Those Standard Marks for the purpose of the Indian Standards Institution 
(Certification Marks) Act, 1952 and the Rules and Regulations framed there- 
under, shall come into force with immediate effect. 

The Schedule 


Design of the Product Class ot 1ST o . and Title of Verbal Description of 
SI. Standard Mark Product relevant Indian the design ot the 

No. Standard Standard Mark 



GRADE I 


Antifriction Bearing 
Alloys 


IS: 25-. 961 Speci- 
fication for Anti- 
friction Hearing Al- 
loys. 


The monogram of the 
Indian Standards 
Institution, con- 
cisting of letters 
LSI, drawn in the 
exact style and 
relative propor- 
tions as Indica- 
ted in Col. (2), 
the number desig- 
nation of the In- 
dian Standard 
being inscribed 
on the top side of the 
monogram and the 
relevant grade 
designation being 
subscribed under 
the bottom side 
of the monogram 
as indicated in 
the design for 
‘GRADE I’ in 
column (2). 


[No. MD/17:2.] 
C. N. MODAWAL, 

Head of the Certification Murks Division. 


ERRATA 

S.O. 1405. — In the Ministry of Commerce & Industry (Indian Standards 
Institution) Notification, Part II, Section 3, Sub -section (ii), dated 5th February 
1962, published in the Gazette of India, dated 7th April 1962; the following 
mistakes may be corrected: — 

Page 1114, S. No. 11, col, 5, line 2 
for ‘Road’ read ‘Row'. 

Page 1116, S. No. 0, col. 7, line 1 
for ‘IS: 501-1953’ read ‘IS: 561-1958’, 


S.O. 1406.— In the Ministry of Commerce & Industry (Indian Standards 
Institution) Notification published under S.O, 909 in the Gazette of India, Part II, 
Section 3, Sub-section (ii), dated 31st March 1962, the following printing mis- 
take may be corrected: — 

S. No. 5 Col. 4, line 1, 
for ‘IS: 114991-57’ 

read IS: 1140-1957’. 



1 o 


' HE GAZETTE 6f INDIA : MAT 12, 19G2/VA15AKHA 22, 1884 [East II 


MINISTRY OF STEEL & HEAVY INDUSTRIES 
(Department of Iron & Steel) 

New Delhi, the 5th May 1902 

S.O. 1407/ESS.COMM/Iron & Steel-AM(59) ’ The following Notification 
Issued by the Iron and Steel Controller under Sub-clause 1 of Clause 27 of the 
Iron and Steel (Control) Order, 1956, is published for general information: — 

'‘Notification 

In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-clause 1 of Clause 27 of the Iron 
and Steel (Control) Order, 1956 and with the approval of the Central Govern- 
ment, the Iron and Steel Controller hereby notifies the following amendment to 
the prices under schedule V — defectives and scrap of the Ministry of Steel, Mines 
& Fuel, Iron and Steel Control, Calcutta Notification No. ISC/AP/6260 published 
in Part III, Section 1 of the Gazctt • of India dated 24th December I960:— 

Amendment 


Under Part III — Melting scrap, 

Item No. 10, 

For the existing entries substitute the following:— 


Rate per 

M/Ton at 

all Railhead 

Stations in India 


Col. I 

Col. II 

Col. Ill 

10. Ingot Mould Scrap 
(50 Kg. and under) 

Rs, 192/- 

Rs. 207/- 

— 


A. N. Bankhji, 

Iron and Steel Controller." 

[No. SC(C)-2(147)/60.] 
J. S. 1JAIJAL, Under Secy 


(Department of Iron and Steel) 

New Delhi, the 7tli May 19G2 

S.O. 1408 /ESS.COMM/IRON & STEEL/4, 5, 7, 18 & 20.— The following Notifi- 
cations issued by the Government of India and published in the Gazette of India, 
Part II, Section 3, are hereby cancelled: — 

1. No. S.K.O. 657/ESS. COMM /IRON AND STEEL- 4, 5, 18 and 20 dated 

23rd February, 1957 issued by the late Ministry of Heavy Industries 
and published In the Gazette of India dated the 2nd March, 1957. 

2. No. S.O. 2510/ESS. COMM/IRON AND STEEL — 4, 5 & 7 dated the 4th 

November, 1959 issued by the late Mimstiy of Steel, Mines and Fuel 
In the Gazette of India dated the 14th November, 1959. 

3. No. S.O, 209/ ESS. COMM/ IRON AND STEEL— 4, 5 & 7 dated the 15th 

January, 1960 Issued by the late Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel 
and published in the Gazette of India dated the 23rd January, 1960. 

4. No. S.O. 2322 / ESS. COMM / IRON AND STEEL— 4. 5 & 7 dated the 15th 

September, 1960 issued by the late Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel 
and published In the Gazette of India dated the 24th September, 1960. 

5. No. S.O, 439 / ESS. COMM/ IRON AND STEEL— 4, 5, 18 & 20 dated the 

16th February, 1961 issued by the late Ministry of Steel, Mines and 
Fuel and published in the Gazette of India dated the 25th February, 
1961. 


LNo. SC (A) -l ( 55 ) / 62.] 
H. S. GILL, Under Secy, 





Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


I 68l 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 
(Department of Agriculture) 

New Delhi, the 30th April 1962 


S.O. 1409. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Agricultural 
Produce (Grading and Marking) Act, 1937 (1 of 1937), the Central Government 
hereby makes the following rules, the same having been previously published as 
required by the said Section. 


MYROBALAN GRADING AND MARKING RULES, 1962 

1, Short title and application. — (1) These rules may be called the Myrobalan 
Grading and Marking Rules, 1962. 

(2) They shall apply to Myrobalan (Terminalia chebulla) produced In India, 

2. Definitions. — In these rules, — 1 

(a) "Agricultural Marketing Adviser” means the Agricultural Marketing 

Adviser to the Government of India; 

(b) “Schedule” means a Schedule to these rules. 

3, Grade designations. — Grade designations to indicate the quality of Myrobalan 
shall be as set out in column 2 of schedules I to IV. 

4. Definition of quality. — The special and general characteristics of the quality 
indicated by such grade designations shall be as set out in columns 3 to 6 of 
Schedules I to IV. 

6. Grad© designation marks. — The grade designation mark shall consist of a 
label bearing a design (consisting of an outline map of India with the word 
"AGMARK” and the figure of rising sun with the words "Produce of India”) 
resembling that set out in Schedule V and specifying the grade designation. 

6. Method of marking.— (1) The grade designation mark shall be securely 
applied to each container in a manner approved by the Agricultural Marketing 
Adviser In addition to the grade designation mark, each container shall be 
marked with such particulars and in such manner as may be specified by the 
said officer from time to time. 

(2) An authorised packer may after obtaining the previous approval of the 
Agricultural Marketing Adviser mark his private trade mark on a container in 
a manner approved by the said officer; provided that the private trade mark does 
not represent a quality or grade of myrobalan different from that indicated by 
the grade designation mark affixed on the container in accordance with these 
rules. 

7. Method of packing. — (1) Sound and clean jute gunnies shall be used for 
packing myrobalans and these shall be securely closed and sealed In a manner 
approved by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser. 

(2) Each package or container shall contain only myrobalans of one grade 
designation only, Where more than one package is put in a large container all 
the packages shall bear Agmark labels and the outer container shall also bear 
the Agmark label. 

8. Special conditions of Certificate of Authorisation.— In addition to the con- 
ditions specified in rule 4 of the General Grading and Marking Rules, 1937, the 
conditions set out in Schedule VI shall be the conditions of every Certificate of 
Authorisation issued for the purpose of these rules. 




I 682 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1902/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 [Past II 


Schedule I 
( See rules 3 and 4) 

Grade designations and definition of quality of whole m vrobalan nuts commercially known as ‘ Jubul- 
pores ” grown in the States of Madhya Pradesh , Bihar , Orissa and Andhra 
Pradesh 


Trade Name 


(1) 


Grade ~ ■ 
Designation 


(*) 


Special characteristics 


Colour 

•Extraneous 

matter 

not 



exceeding 
(by weight) 

Tolerance 


( 4 ) 

( 5 ) 


General charac- 
teristics 


( 6 ) 


. Jubulpore 

J.I.S. 

Yellow to 

1 percent 

Shall not contain 

Shall 

be Bound 

No, X Special 

yellowish 

more than 5 per- 

and 

solid nuts 


brown 


cent ‘Jubulpore 
No. IT. 

free 

from in- 





sect 

attack and/ 






or broken nuts 

. ^Jubulpore 

J.I. 

Do. 

25 percent 

Shall not contain 
more than ij per 


Do. 





cent ‘ Jubulpore 
No. II’. 



Jubulpore 

J.A. 

Yellowish 

3-0 percent 

Shall not contain 


Do. 

Average 

to brownish 

more than 25 




black 


per cent deca- 
yed and hollow 








nuts. 



^fubul^ore 

J.II 

Brownish 

black 

5 percent 





•This comprises dust, crushed matter, seeds and other foreign matter. 


Schedule II 
(See rules 3 and 4) 

Grade d 'situations and definition of quality of crushed myrobalan derived from whole nuts commercially 
known as r ‘ Jubbulpores " grown in the States of Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Orissa and Andhra 

Pradesh 


Special characteristics 

Trade name Grade ■ ■ — - — General characteristic* 

designation 

•Myrobalan * ’Chicken Kernel 
dust not feed not seeds not 

exceeding exceeding exceedng 

(by weight) (by weight) (by weight) 

CD C2) (3) (4) ( 5 ) ( 6 ) 


1. Crushed No. I 
International 

C.I.I. 

2 i percent 

10 percent 

3 percent 

2. Crushed No. I . 

C.I. 

5 percent 

15 percent 

4 percent 

3. Crushed Average 

C. A. 

10 percent 

20 percent 

5 percent 


Shall be made from 
whole nuts J. I. S. 
quality of Sche- 
dule I. 

Shall be made from 
whole nuts of 

'Jubulpore Ave- 
rage ’ (T. A.) of 

Schedule-! 


•Anything passing through 16 mesh sieve. 
••Anything passing through 8 mesh sieve. 




Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1683 


Schedule III 
(See rules 3 and 4 ) 

Grain designations and definition of quality of whole mvrobalan nuts commercially known as “Bhinilis’ m 
grown in the States of Maharashtra and Mysore 


Trade Name 


Special characteristics 


General 

characteristics 

designation 

Colour 

•Extraneous 

matter 

Tolerance 

W 

(2) 

(3) 

not 

exceeding 
(by weight) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

l- Bhimlis Fine 

B.F. 

Greenish to 
yellowish 

I percent 

3 percent of 
next lower grade 

Shall be sound and 
solid nuts free from 
insect attack and/or 
broken nuts. 

. Bhimlis No . 1 

B.I. 

Yellow to 
brownish 

X percent 

Shall not con- 
tain more than 
< percent hol- 
low and deca- 
yed nuts. 

Shall be sound and 
Bolid nuts free 

from insect attack 
and/or broken nuts. 

. Bhimlis 

B.A. . 

Do. 

2 * 5 percent 

Shall not con- 

Do. 


Average 


tain more than 
25 percent hollow 
and decayed 
nuts. 


♦This comprises dust, dirt, crushed matter, seeds and other foreign matter. 


Schedule IV 
(.See rules 3 and 4 ) 

Grade designations and definition of quality of whole myrobalan nuts commercially known as “Raja- 
pores ” grown m Maharashtra and Mysore States 


Trade name 


(0 


Special characteristics 

Grade 

designation — . — . — . — . — . — — — . — — 

* Extraneous 

Colour metier not Tolerance 

exceeding 
(by weight) 

O) (3) (4) (5) 


1. Rajapore 
1. 

No. R.I. 

Brownish to 
brownish 
black 

I percent 

Shall not con- 
tain more than 
6 percent de- 
cayed and hol- 
low nuts. 

2. Bombay 

J.I. 

. B.J.I. 

Brownish 
black to 
black 

5 percent 

Shall not con- 
tain more than 
50 percent hol- 
low and decayed 
nuts. 

3. Rajapore 
t. No. 2. 

R. II. 

Do. 

10 percent 



General 

characteristics 


( 6 ) 


Shall be sound and 
solid nuts free from 
insect attack and/or 
broken nuts. 


*This comprises dust, dirt, crushed matter, seeds and other foreign matter. 



1684 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 [Fast II 


Schedule V 


(See Rule 5) 
MAP OF INDIA 



Note. — The Tamil and Telugu words will not occur in the labels in case where 
commodities are graded for the purpose of export. 

Schedule VI 
( See Rule 8) 

(1) An authorised packer shall make such arrangements for testing: 
myrobalans as may be prescribed, and samples thereof shall be forwarded to such 
control laboratory as may be notified from time to time by the Agricultural 
Marketing Adviser to the Government of India, 

(2) An authorised packer shall provide such facilities to Inspecting Officers 
duly authorised by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of 
India, for the sampling, testing and affixation of grade designation marks aa 
may be prescribed from time to time by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser to 
the Government of India, 

(3) All instructions regarding the methods of sampling, analysis, packing etc. 
which may be issued by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Government 
of India, shall be strictly observed. 


LNo. F. 17-2/01-AM.J 




Sec. 3(il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1894 


1685 


8.0. 1410. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural 
Produce (Grading and Marking) Act, 1937 (1 of 1937), the Central Government 
hereby makes the following rules, the same having been previously published. 

CARDAMOM GRADING AND MARKING RULES, 1962 

1. Short title and application. — (1) These rules may be called the Cardamom 
Grading and Marking Rules, 1962. 

(2) They shall apply to Caidamom Elettaria cardamomum produced In India 
and intended for export. 

2. Definitions. — In these rules: — 


(a) “Agricultural Marketing Adviser” means the Agricultural Marketing 

Adviser to the Government of India; 

(b) “Schedule” means a Schedule to these rules. 


3. Grade Designations. — Grade designations to indicate the quality of 

Cardamom shall be as set out in column 1 of Schedules I to VI. 


4. Definition of quality. — The quality indicated by the grade designations shall 
be as set out against each designation in Schedules I to VI. 

5. Grade Designation Marks. — The Grade designation mark shall consist of 
a label bearing a design (consisting of an outline map of India with the word 
‘AGMARK’ and the figure of rising sun with the words “Produce of India”) 
resembling that set out in Schedule VII. 

6. Method of Marking. — (1) The grade designation mark shall be securely 

applied to each container in a manner approved by the Agricultural Marketing 
Adviser, In addition to the grade designation mark, each container shall be 
marked with such particulars and in such manner as may be specified by the 
aforesaid officer from time to time. 1 


(2) An authorised packer may, after obtaining the previous approval of the 
Agricultural Marketing Adviser, mark his private trade mark on a container 
In a manner approved by the said Officer, provided that the private trade mark 
does not represent a quality or grade of cardamom different from that indicated 
by the grade designation mark affixed on the container in accordance with these 
rules, 1 


7. Method of Packing. — (1) Cardamom capsules shall be packed in clean and 
sound containers e.g. wooden cases suitably lined with water-proof or oraft paper 
or new jute bags with water-proof lining. 

Cardamom Seeds shall be packed in clean and drytin plate containers or 
wooden cases lined with water-proof of craft paper. 


(2) Each container shall be securely closed and sealed in a manner approved 
by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser, 


(3) Each package or container shall contain only goods of the crop of the 
year specified and of one grade designation only. Where more than one packag 
is put in a large container, all the packages shall bear Agmark labels and th 
outer container shall also bear an Agmark label indicating particulars of the 
contents. 


8. Special Conditions of Certificate of Authorisation.— In addition to the con- 
ditions specified In rule 4 of the General Grading and Marking Rules, 1937, the con- 
ditions set out In Schedule VIII shall be the conditions of every certificate of 
authorisation Issued for the purpose of these rules 


O Qt 



1 686 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VA1SAKHA 22, 1884 [Part II 


S chedtjle I 
(See rules 3 and 4 ) 

Grade, designations and definitions of quality of ALLEPPY GREEN * Cardamoms 


Special characteristics 

Grade designs- Trade Name Weight in 

tion Empty Immature Size G./L. General 

and and Diameter characteristics 

malformed shrivelled of holes In 

capsules, capsules j m.m. of the Minimum 

percent percent seive on 

by count, by weight which 

Maximum Maximum retained 
Tolerance 
±5 percent 

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 


AGS 

, Cardamom 
Superior 

40 

0*0 

50 

385 

The carda- 

moms shall be 
the dried cap- 
sules of 

Elettaria car- 
damom grown 
in South India 
kiln dried ; 

AGS 1 

. Shipment 
Green I 

30 

7'0 

40 

350 

having a rea- 
sonably uniform 
shade of green 
colour three 

cornered and 
having a ribbed 
appearance. 

AGS 2 

, Shipment 
Groan 2 

3-o 

7-o 

4’* 

3ao 

The capsule* 

shall be free 
from visible 

mould and 

insect infestation 

* 

AGL 

. Light 

* * 



260 

Thrip mark* 

alone on the 
capsules shall 

not lead to the 
conclusion that 
the capsule* 

have been in- 
fested by in- 
sects. 


•Tolerance of grey and cream colours upto 25 per cent permitted. 

Definition of termf . — 

Empty and malformed capsules . — Capsules which bav : do seeds or are scantily filled with seeds. 
For this purpose 100 capsules selected at random from the sample shall be opened oULand the num- 
ber of empty and malformed capsules counted. 

Immature and shrivelled eapsukse- Capsule* which arc not fully developed. 



Stee. 3(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


Schedule II 
(See rules 3 and 4 ) 

Grade, designations and definitions of quality of COORG CLIPPED CARDAMOMS. 


Grade 

Designation 


Trade Name 


Special characteristics 
Empty Undipped Immature Size 


and 

capsules 

and 

(Dia- 

mal- 

percent 

Shrive- 

meter 

formed 

by 

lled 

of 

capsules 

count 

capsules holes 

percent Maximum per 

in m.m. 

by 


cent 

of the 

count 


by 

sieve 

Maxi- 

mum 


weight 

Maxi- 

on 

which 



mum 

retained 


Tole- 


■ Weight 

G./L. 

Minimum 


r anc= 

±3 P cr ' 
cent. 


General 

characteristics 


1 

2 

3 

4 

3 

6 

7 

8 

CCi 

. Bold 

50 

00 

0-0 

8*3 

435 

The Cardamom* 






shall be th* 








dried capsule* 
of ELtlana. 

OC 2 

Coorg Green 
or Motta 

Green 

3-o 

3‘® 

4*0 

6 -o 

385 

Cardamom 






grown la 

Mangalore and 
Coorg district* 
of Mysore 



CC 3 

. Shipment 

3-0 

5-P 

TO 

4-0 

330 

colour ranging 
from pale yellow 


to broMttsj 

global shape 

skin ribbed or 
smooth ; tho 
pedicels separa* 

OG 4 . Light 3-5 260 ted. The capsule* 

shall be free 
from visible 

mould and In- 
sect infestation. 
Thrip mark* 

alone on the 
capsule shall 

not lead to 
the conclusion 
that the cap- 
sules have 

been infested 
by insects. 


Definition of terms 

Empty and malformed capsules . — Capsules which have no seeds or axe scantily filled with aecda. 

For this purpose too Capsules selected at random from the sample shall be opened out and the 
■Umber of empty and malformed Capsules counted. 

Immature and shrivelled capsules . — Capsules which are not fully developed. 

Undipped Capsules . — Capsules in which the tips have not been tri mm ed. 





1 688 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 [Part II 


Schedule III 
( See Rules 3 and 4) 


Grade, designations and definitions of quality of BLEACHED ORjAND HALF BLEACHED 

Cardamom. 


Grade designation ■ 

Special characteristics 



Empty and 
malformed 
capsules; 
per cent 
by count 
Maximum 

Immature 
and Shri- 
velled 
capsules 
per cent 
by weight 
Maximum 

Size 

(Diameter 
of holes 
in mm. of 
the sieve 
on which 
retained) 
Tolerance 
+ 5 per cent 
Maximum 

Weight G/L 
Maximum 

General charac- 
teristics 

(i) 

00 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

OS) 


BL I . 

0*0 

0‘0 

8-5 

340 

The cardamom 

shall be the fully 
developed dried 

capsules of Elcttaria 
cardamomum. 

BL 2 

O 0 

O'O 

6 o 

t4o 

bleached and/or half 
bleached by sul- 
phuring ; Co- 

lour ranging from 
pale cream to white; 

BL 3 • 

O") 

o-o 

4 o 

280 

Global or three 
cornered with skin 


ribbed or smooth. 

The capsules shall 
be free from 
visibe mould and 
insect infestation. 

Thrip marts alone 
on the capsules shall 
not lead to the 
conclusion that the 

S ' :s have been 
by insects. 


Definition of terms . — 

Empty and malformed Capsules, — Capsules which have no seeds or are scantily filled with 
seeds. For this purpose ioo Capsules selected at random lrom the sample shall be opened out and 
the number of empty and malformed Capsules counted. 

Immature and Shrivelled Capsules. — Capsules which are not fully developed. 




Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1689 


Schedule IV 
(See Rules 3 and 4) 

Grade designation and definitions of quality >J LEA CHABLE WHITE Cardamoms 


Grade designa- 
tion 


Special characteristics 


Trade name Empty Immature Size, Weight 
and and (Dia- G./L. 

mol- Shrivel- meter 

formed led of holes 
capsules capsules in m.m. 
percent percent of the Minimum 
by count by sieve 
Maxi- weight on which 
mum Maxi- retained) 
mum Tole- 
rance 
± 5 per 
cent. 


General 

characteristics 


(I) (2) 


(3) (4) (5) (6) ( 7 ) 


BWG 


Mysore/Manga- X'O o-o 

lore Bleachable 
Cardamom A. 

Cl ipped 


■ o 460 The cardamoms shall 
be the fully deve- 
loped dried cap- 
sules of Elettaria 
Cardamomum grown 
in Mysore State 
with a reasonable. 


BW 2 


Mvsore/Mangalore 10 o • 0 
Bleachable 
Cardamom A. 

Undipped 


7-0 460 uniform shade of 

white, light green 
or light grey co- 
lour and suitable 
for bleaching. | 


BW 3 


Mysore/Mangalore 
Bleachable 
Bulk Carda- 
mom Clipped 


2'0 0-0 4 3 435 The capsules shall be 

free from visible 
mould and insect 
infestation. 


BW 4 , Mysore/Mangalore 2-0 

Bleachable 
Bulk Carda- 
mom-Undip- 
ped^ 


o-o 4 '3 435 Thrip marks alone 

on the capsules shall 
not lead to the con- 
clusion that the 
capsules have been 
infested by insects. 


Definition of terms . — 

Empty and malformed capsules . — Capsules which have no seeds or are scantily filled with seeds . 
For this purpose 100 capsules selected at random from the sample shall be opened oul and the 
number of empty and malformed capsules counted. 

Immature and shrivelled capsules . — Capsules which are not fhjly developed. 




1690 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 19 G 2 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 [Pabt TI 


Schedule V 
{See Rules 3 and 4) 

Grade designations and definitions of quality of ALLEPPEY CARDAMOM SEEDS 


Grade designation 

Trade name 

Special characteristics 

General characteristics 

Extra- 
neous 
matter 
percent 
by weight 
Maximum 

’’Light Weight 
seeds in G./L. 

percent Minimum 
oy weight 

Maximum 

(I) 

(2) 

( 3 ) 

( 4 ) ( 5 ) 

(6) 


AS 

I 

. Prime 1 

10 

30 

675 

Shall be the decorticated 





and dry seeds of any 
variety of ElettarCt 

cardamomum grown in 
Kerala 



AS 

2 

. Shipment 

2-0 

5-0 

460 

State and the Southern 






districts of Madras State, 

AS 

3 

. ’Broken#’} 

50 


, , 

The secdB shall be frea 






from visible mould and 
insect infestation. 



Definition of terms — 

* Pro funs . — Include brown, red, Immature and shrivelled seeds. 

Extraneous matter . — Includes calyx pieces, stalk bits and other foreign matter, 

"Light seeds . — Include seeds brown or red in colour and broken, immature and shrivelled seed® 


Schedule VI 
( See Rules 3 and 4) 

Grade designations and definitions of quality of MANGALORE CARDAMOM SEEDS 


Grade designation Trade Name Special characteristics 

— . — General characteristics 

Extra- ’’Light Weight 

n«ous seeds in G./L. 

matter Percent Minimum 

S crcent by weight 

y weight Maximum 
Maximum 

(I) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) (4) ( 5 ) ( 6 ) 


MS 1 Prime 


MS a . Shipment 

MS 3 . ’Broken# 


1 o 3'0 673 Shall be the decorticated 

and dry seeds of any 

variety of Blettaria car- 
damomuM grown In Man- 
galore and Coorg district* 
of Mysore State. 

2-o J’O 460 The seeds shall be fre* 

5 -0 .. .. from visible mould and 

insect infestation. 


Definition of terms : — 

*Brokens . — Include brown, red, immature and shrivelled seeds. 

Extraneous matter . — Includes Calyx pieces . stalk bits and other foreign matter. 

” Light seeds . — Include seeds brown or red in colour and broken, immature and shrivelled seed*. 





Sec. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 1M2/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 169 x 

==^ =— = — - . - 3C 

Schedule VII 
( See Rule 5) 

MAP OF INDIA 



Nora. — The Tamil and Telugu words will not occur in the labels in case where- 
commodities are graded for the purpose of export. 

Schedule VIII 
(See Rule 8 ) 

(a) An authorised packer shall make such arrangements for testing Carda- 
moms as may be prescribed, and samples thereof snail be forwarded to such 
control laboratory as may bo notified from time to time, by the Agricultural' 
Marketing Advisor. 




1692 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MA\ 12, \Wi, V UjAKHA 22, 1881 [Pam II 


(b) An authorised packer shall provide such facilities to Inspecting Officers 
duly authorised by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser for sampling, testing and 
affixation of grade designation marks, as may be prescribed from time to time. 

(c) All instructions regarding the methods of sampling and analysis, sealing 
and marking the containers and maintenance of records, etc. which may be issued 
from time to time by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser shall be observed. 

[No. F. 17-12/61 -AM (1) .] 
V. S. NIGAM, Under Secy. 


(Department of Agriculture) 

(Indian Council of Agricultural Research) 

New Delhi, the 3rd May 1962 

S.O. 1411. — In pursuance of the provisions of clause (f) of section 4 of the 
Indian Coconut Committee Act, 1944 “(10 of 1944) the Government of India have 
been pleased to appoint the Joint Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry 
of Finance, Agriculture Division, New Delhi as a member of the Indian Central 
Coconut Committee for the period ending 31st March 1965. 

[No. 12-2/62-Com.I,] 

S.O. 1412.— In pursuance of the provisions of clause (f) of section 4 of the 
Indian Coconut Committee Act, 1044 (10 of 1944) the Government of India have 
•been pleased to appoint the Agricultural Commissioner with the Government of 
India, New Delhi-1 /Additional Agricultural Commissioner with the Government 
of [ndia, New Delhi-1 as a member of the Indian Central Coconut Committee for 
a period of three years ending 31st March 1905. 

1 [No. 12-2/62-Com.I.] 


New Delhi, the 5th May 1962 

I 

S.O. 1413. — The Government of Madhya Pradesh having nominated the Oil- 
seeds Development Officer, Directorate of Agriculture, Bhopal and renominated 
Shi[i Suresh Chandra, Secretary, Madhya Pradesh Young Farmer’s Association, 
Gotegaon District, Narslngpur, as members of the Indian Central Oilseeds Com- 
mittee to represent the State Government and the Oilseeds growers of the State 
respectively under Sub-Section (e) and (f) of Section 4 of the Indian Oilseeds 
Committee Act, 1940 (9 of 1946), the Central Government hereby notifies that 
the] aforesaid persons shall be members of the said Committee for the period 
■ ending 31st March, 1905, 


[No. 8-22/ 62-Com.IL] 
SANTOKH SINGH, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 1st May 1962 

S.O. 1414. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (f) of section 3 
of the Dentists Act, 1948 (16 of 1948), the Central Government hereby nomi- 
nates the following persons as members of the Dental Council of India with 
• effect from the 6th August, 1902, namely: — 

1. Col, N. N. Bery, 

Hony, Dental Adviser, Ministry of Health, 

13, Curzon Road, New Delhi. 

2. Dr. N. Pinto De Rosario, 

Staff Surgeon (Dental), 

Willingdon Hospital, New Delhi. 

3. Dr. J. C. Manchanda, 

Principal, 

Punjab Dental College, 

Amritsar. 



aec. 8(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 j 69 J. 


4. CoL R. N. Dogrfl, 

Army Dental Corps, 

Armed Forces Dental College, Poona. 

5. Dr. L N. Mathur, 

Dental Surgeon, 

College of Medical Sciences, 

Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi. 

(No. F. 3-2/02-Mil. J. 

S.O. 1415.— Dr. Amiya Kumar Sen. 162/21/1, Lake Gardens, Calcutta-31 has 
been duly elected as a member of the Dental Council of India under clause 
(d) of section 3 of the Dentists Act, 1948 (16 of 1948), with effect from the- 
20th March, 1962 vice Dr. (Capt.) P. Mukherjee whose term of office expired 
on the 19th March, 1902. 

[No. F. 3-2/02-MIL] 
R. MURTHI, Under Secy 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT & COMMUNICATIONS 
(Department of Transport) 

(Transport Wing) 

Ports 

New Delhi, the 30 th April 1962 

S.O. 1416. — In pursuance of rules 33 and 34 of the Harbour Craft Rules for 
the Port of Madras, 1936, the Central Government hereby makes the following; 
further amendments to the rules for the grant of certificates of competency or 
permits to Masters and Syrangs, Engineers and Engine-drivers of mechanically 
propelled craft plying in the port of Madras published with the notification of 
the Government of India in the late Department of War Transport No. 19-P 
( 13) /40-III, dated the 28th May, 1940, namely: — 

In the said rules, 

(1) in rule 19, for the words “the last” the word "one” shall be substi- 

tuted; and 

(2) in rule 22 the words “the last” shall be omitted. 

[No. 13-PG(19)/62.]' 
HARBANS SINGH, Under Secy. 


(Departments of Communications and Civil Aviation) 

New Delhi, the 30 th April 1962 

8.0. 1411. — On his resignation Shri S. R, Vasavada ceased to be a Member 
of the Boards of the Indian Airlines Corporation and Air India International 
Corporation with effect from 7th December, 1961. 

TNo. 3-CA(6)/6l.l’ 


Nern Delhi, the 5th May 1962 

S.O. 1418.— In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 4 of the Air Cor- 
nnraffons Act 1953 (27 of 1953), the Central Government hereby appoints wlm 
Immediate effect, Shri S. R. Vasavada as a Member of the Air India International 
Corporation and the Indian Airlines Corporation. 

TNo. 3-CA(0)/611 


K. GOPALAKRISHNAN, Dy. Secy.- 


1694 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 [Pact II 


(Department of Communications & Civil Aviation) 

(P. & T. Board) 

New Delhi, the 4th Map 1962 

S.O. 1419. — In pursuance of sub-rule (2) of rule 11, clause (b) of sub-rule (2) of 
rule 14 of sub-rule (1) of rule 23 of the Central Civil Services (Classification, Con- 
trol and Appeal) Rules, 1957, the President hereby makes the following further 
amendments in the Schedule to the notification of the Government of India In the 
late Ministry of Communications (Posts and Telegraphs) No. S.R.Oj- 620 dated the 
28th February, 1957, namely: — 

In the said Schedule, 

In Part II, General Central Service, Class III, under the heading "Office of the 
General Manager, Posts and Telegraphs Workshops "and other Offices under hie 
'jurisdiction”, for the existing entries in columns 1 to 5, the following sub-headings 
And entries shall be substituted, namely: — 



2 


3 


5 


Office of the General Manager, Posit and 
Telegraphs Workshops. 


Office Superintendent 


General Manager, Posts and General Manager, Post and All 
Telegraphs Workshops. Telegraphs Workshops. 


Posts and Telegraphs Workshop 
Board. 


Deputy General Manager, Posts (i) to (iii) General Manager, Posts and 
arid Telegraphs Workshops. Telegraphs Workshops. 


Industrial Relations Assistant, Deputy General Manager, Posts Deputy General Manager, Posts All. 
Staff in Higher and lower Selec- and Telegraphs Workshops. and Telegraphs Workshops, 
tion grades or imdentical scales 
of pay ; Assistant Foreman. 


General Manager, Posts and 
Telegraphs Workshops. 


Assistant General Manager, (i) to (iii) Deputy General Manager, Posts 
Posts and Telegraphs Work- and Telegraphs Workshops, 

shops. 


Draftsman Grade I 


Deputy General Manager, Posts Deputy General Manager, Posts All 
and Telegraphs Workshops. and Telegraphs Workshops. 


General Manager, Posts and 
Telegraphs Workshops. 


Officers in Class II. 


(i) to (in) Assistant General Manager, 
Posts and Telegraphs Work- 
shops. 



All other posts 


Assistant General Manager, Posts Assistant General Manager, Posts All. 
and Telegraphs Workshops. and Telegraphs Workshops. 


Deputy General Manager, Posts 
and Telegraphs Workshops. 


Officers in Class II. 


(l) to (in) Assistant General Manager, 
Posts and Telegraphs Work- 


8 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 1695 




f 


Of tees of Managers , Telegraphs! Telephones Workshops. 


Security Officer ; Planning Ins- 
pector ; Industrial Relations 
Assistant; Staff in Higher and 
Lower Selection grades or in 
identical scales of pay : Exchange 
Inspector Grade 1; Chief Store 
Keeper; Medical Officer (Class 
III) ; Laboratory Assistant ; 
Chemist ; Head Draftsman ; 
Design Draftsman ; Assistant 
Foreman. 

Draftsman Grade I ; Building 
Overseer ; Welfare Superin- 
tendent ; Assistant Supervisory 
Test Clerk ; Inspector of Watch 
and Ward ; Nurse ; Electrician ; 
Head Test Clerk. 


All other poBts. 


Manager j Workshops. 


Manager, Worksh ops. 


All 


Officers of General Central (i) to (iii) 
Service Class I in Senior Time 
scale. 


General Manager, Posts and 
Telegraphs Workshops. 

Manager, Workshops. 


Manager, Workshops. 


Officers of General 
Service Class I in 
Time Scale. 


Manager, Workshops. 


Officers in Class II 


Central Officers of General Central Sep- 
Senior vice Class I in Senior Time 
Scale. 

Officers in Class II. 


All 


General Manager, Posts and 
T degraphs W orkshops , 


(i) to (iii) Officers of General Central Ser- 
vice Class I in Senior Time 
Scale. 

All. Manager,Workshops. 


(i) to (iii) Officers of General Central 
Service Class I in Senior 
Time Scale.” 


(No. 44'5/62-DISC.) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 12, 19C2/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 [Pari rf 





Sec. 8(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 j&gy 


New Delhi , the 121 h May 1962 

8.0. 1420.- — In pursuance of sub-rule 11, clause (b) of sub-rule (2) of rule 14 
and sub-rule (1) of rule 29 of the Central Civil Services (Classification, Control 
and Appeal) Rules, 1957, the President hereby makes the following amendment 
in the notification of the Government of India in th- late Ministry of Communi- 
cations (Posts and Telegraphs) No. S.R.O. 620, dated the 28th February, 1957, 
namely:— 

In part II, General Central Service, Class HI of the schedule to the said 
notification, under the heading “Telegraph Offices under the charge 
of officers of Telegraph Traffic Service, Class I or Class II, Officers 
of Telegraph Engineering and Wireless Service, Class II, Telegraph 
Masters and Telegraphists’’, after the item “Ministerial staff in Cleri- 
cal Grades” in column 1 and the entries relating thereto, the follow- 
ing item and entries shall be inserted, namely: — 


(i) (2) 


(3) (4) (5) 


Inspectors 

Peons. 


of Officers of Telegraph 
Traffic Service, 
Class I Tele- 
graph Traffic Ser- 
vice Class II, and 
Telegraph Engin- 
eering and Wireless 
Service, Class II 
(in respect of staff 
in Telegraph Offi- 
ces under his ad- 
ministrative control) 


Divisional Engineer 
Telegraphs (in 
respect of telegraph 
offices under the 
charge of non- 
gazetted officials 
in Assam, Mysore 
and Orissa Circles) 


Officer of Tele- All 

graph Traffic Ser- 
ice. Class I, Tele- 
graph Traffic Ser- 
vice, Class II and 
Telegraph Engin- 
eering and Wireless 
Service Class II 
(in respect of staff 
in Telegraph offi- 
ces under his ad- 
ministrufivc con- 
trol). 

Officer of Tele- ( i ) to (m) 
graph Traffic Ser- 
vice, Class II (in 
respect of staff 
working in an office 
under the charge 
of an Officer 
of Telegraph 
Traffic Service, 

Class II), 

Divisional Engineer, All 
Telegraphs (in 
respect of telegraph 
offices under the 
charge of non- 
gazetted officials 
m Assam, Mysore 
and Orissa Circles) 


Director of Tele- 

graphs All Director of 
Posts and Tele- 

graphs. 


Officer of Telegraph 
Traffic Service, Class 
I. 


Director of Tele- 
graphs ; Director of 
Posts and Tele- 
graphs. 


Personal Assistant 
Traffic (in respect 
of staff working in 
other Telegraph 
Offices), 


Personal Assistant, All 
Traffic (in respect 
of staff working in 
other telegraph 
offices). 


Director of Tele- 
graphs ; Director of 
Posts and Tel» 
graphs.'j 


[No. 44/ 10/60-DISC. J 

D. K. AGARWAL, 
Assistant Director General (Sea). 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING & SUPPLY 

New Delhi, the 25 th April 1962 

S.O. 1421. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules to amend the 
Upper Division Clerks (Directorates of Inspection, Calcutta, Bombay, Madras 







1698 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 [Part 11 


Kanpur, Tatanagar, Burnpur and N.W.I. Circle, New Delhi) Recruitment Rules, 
1961, published with the notification of the Government of India, Ministry of 
Works Housing and Supply G.S.R. 819 dated the 8th June, 1961, namely: — 

1. These rules may be called the Upper Division Clerks (Directorates of 
Inspection, Calcutta, Bombay, Madras, Kanpur, Tatanagar, Burnpur and N.W.I. 
Circle, New Delhi) Recruitment Amendment Rules, 1962. 

2. In the Schedule to the Upper Division Clerks (Directorates of Inspection, 
Calcutta, Bombay, Madras, Kanpur, Tatanagar, Burnpur and N.W.I. Circle, New 
Delhi) Recruitment Rules, 1961, for the existing entry in column 10, the following 
entry shall be substituted, namely;— 

“2 years". 

[No. 49/24/60-ESII.] 


New Delhi, the 2nd May 1962 

S.O. 1422. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules to amend the 
Upper Division Clerks (The Government Test House, Calcutta) Recruitment Rules, 
1961, published with the notification of the Government of India, Ministry of 
Works, Housing and Supply G.S.R. 818 dated the 8th June, 1961, namely: — 

1. These rules may be called the Upper Division Clerks (The Government 
Test House, Calcutta) Recruitment Amendment Rules, 1962. 

2. In the Schedule to the Upper Division Clerks (The Government Test House, 
Calcutta) Recruitment Rules, 1961, for the existing entry in column 10, the follow- 
ing entry shall be substituted namely; — 


"2 years". 


[No. 49(23) /60-ESII.] 
R. RAJAGOPALAN, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 2nd May 1902 

S.O, 1423.— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Public 
Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1958 (32 of 1958), the Central 
Government hereby appoints the Manager, Hotel Janpath, New Delhi, being a 
gazetted officer of the Government, to be the estate officer for the purposes of the 
said Act in respect of the premises of Hotel Janpath. New Delhi. 

[No. 15(8) / 62-EEII.l 
R. C. MEHRA, Under Secy. 


(Department of Rehabilitation) 

(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 

New Delhi, the 1st May 1962 

S.O. 1424. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (1) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 
1954), the Central Government hereby appoints Shrl P. N. Bhanot, as Settlement 
Commissioner for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such 
Commissioner by or under the said act with effect from 1st May, 1962. 

[No. 12(2)/ARG/62-(ll).] 

New Delhi, the 2nd May 1962 

S.O. 1425, — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (i) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954, (44 of 
1954), the Central Government hereby appoints Mrs. Santosh Duggal as Assistant 
Settlement Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such 
officers by or under the said Act with effect from the date she took charge of her 
office, 


[No. 8/133/ARG/61.] 



Sec. S(ii)] THF GA/ET'lE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 1902/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1699 


S.O. 1426. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Sec- 
tion 3 of the Displaced Persons (Claims) Supplementary Act, 1954, the Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri Gulab L. Ajwam as Additional Settlement 
Commissioner for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to him by 
or under the said Act with effect from 1st July, 1961. 

This office Notification No. 11 (45) /CSC/AI-61, dated 19th July 1961 is hereby 
cancelled. 

[No. 5(10)/ARG-61.] 


New Delhi, the 3rd May 1962 

S.O. 1427. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (1) of Section 
6 of the Administration of Evacuee Property, 1950 (XXXI of 1950) the Central 
Government hereby appoints for the State of Rajasthan, Shri T. N. Mathur, 
Managing Officer In the Office of the Regional Settlement Commissioner, Jaipur 
as Assistant Custodian for the purpose of discharging the duties imposed on Cus- 
todian by or under the said Act with effect from the date he took over charge 
of his office. 

[No. 7(3)/ARG-62.] 

S.O. 1428. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of Sub- 
Section (2) of Section 16 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation) 
Act. 1954 (44 of 1951; the Central Government hereby appoints for the State of 
Rajasthan, Shri T. N, Mathur, Managing Officer In the Office of the Regional 
Settlement Commissioner, Jaipur, as Managing Officer for the custody, manage- 
ment and disposal of Compensation Pool with effect from the date he took over 
charge of his office. 

[No. 7(3)/ARG-62.1 


New Delhi, the 1th May 1962 

S.O. 1429. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (i) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation) Act, 1954, (44 of 
1954), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri E. R. Kher as Assistant 
Settlement Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such 
officers by or under the said act with effect from tile date he took charge of his 
office. 

| No. 8/ 136 / ARG/61.] 

S.O 1430. — In exercise of the powers conferred bv Sub-Section (i) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation) Act, 1954. (44 of 
1954) the Centrul Government hereby appoints Shri V. S, Jha as Assistant Settle- 
ment Officer for the purpose ol performing the functions assigned to such officers 
by or under the said Act with effect from the date he took charge of his office. 

[No. 10(85) /ARG/G1.1 
KANWAR BAHADUR, 

Settlement Commissioner (A) and 

Ex-Officio Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Rehabilitation) 

(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 

New Delhi, the 1st May 1962 

S.O. .1431. — In exercise of the powers conferred on m° by Sub-Scctlon (2) of 
Section 34 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act. 1954 
(44 of 1954), I hereby delegate to Shri P. N. Bhanot, Settlement Commissioner 
with effect from 1st May, 1962 the following powers of the Chief Settlement Com- 
missioner:— 

1. Power to hear appeals under Section 23 of the said Act. 

2. Power to hear revisions under Section 24 of the said Act. 

[No. 12(2) /ARG/02-IV.] 



1700 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1%2/VAISAK.HA 22, 1884 [Pa pi II 


S.O, 1432. — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Section 5 of the 
Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (31 of 1950), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby appoints Shri P. N. Bhanot, Settlement Commissioner as Deputy 
Custodian General of Evacuee Property with efrect from the forenoon of 1st May, 
1902 until further orders. 

[No. 12(2)/ ARG/ 02-VI.] 

S.O, 1433. — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by sub-Section (3) of 
Section 55 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act (31 of 1950), I S. W. 
Shiveshwarkar hereby delegate to Shri P. N. Bhanot, Deputy Custodian Geiierai 
of Evacuee Property, all powers vested in me under the said Act. 

[No. 12(2)/ARG/62-VII.] 


New Delhi, the 2nd May 1902 

S.O. 1434. — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by sub-section (2) 
of Section 10 of the Displaced Persons (Claims) Supplementary Act, 1954 (12 of 
1954), I have delegated to Shri Gulab L. Ajwani, Additional Settlement Com- 
missioner with effect from the 1st July, 1961, the following powers of the Chief 
Settlement Commissioner: — 

1. Powers to call for the record of any case decided by the Settlement 

Officer and pass order in the case under proviso to sub-scction (3) 
of Section 4 of the said Act. 

2. Special powers of revision under Section 5 of the said Act in respect 

of cases decided under the Displaced Persons (Claims) Act, 1950 
(44 of 1950). 

This office Notification No. 11 (45)/CSC/AI-61, dated 19th July 1961 is hereby 
cancelled. 


[No. 5(1O)/ARG-01.] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 5th May 1902 

S.O. 1435. — In exorcise of the powers conferred on me by sub-section (2) of 
Section 34 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation) Act. 1954 
(44 of 1954) I, S. W. Shiveshwarkar, I.C’.S., Chief Settlement Commissioner, 
hereby delegate my powers under Rules 84 and 86 of the Displaced Persons 
(Compensation and Rehabilitation) Rules. 1955. to condone the delay In submission 
of applications for substitution under Section 9 ol the Displaced Persons (Com- 
pensation and Rehabilitation) Act. 1954 (44 of 1954) bv successors-In-lnterest of 
deceased claimants or applicants lor Rehabilitation Grant to the following Officers 
of the Settlement Organisation:— 

1. Shri I. L. Panjani .Regional Settlement Commissioner, Jaipur. 

2. Shri S. S. BIsen — Regional Settlement Commissioner, Lucknow. 

3. Shri R. Dayal — Regional Settlement Commissioner, Patna. 

4. Shri J. S. Ba.iai . .Regional Settlement Commissioner, Bombay. 

[No. 4 (4) /Comp. & Prop./62.] 

S. W. SHIVESHWARKAR. Chief Settlement Commissioner. 

(Department of Rehabilitation) 

(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 

New Delhi , the 3rd May 1962 

S.O. 143G. — In exercis" of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (I) of Section 
6 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (Act XXXI of 1950), the 
Central Government hereby appoints for the State of Rajasthan Shri H. S. 
Unadhvaya, Tehsildar in the office of the Rpgional Settlement Commissioner Jaipur 
with effect from 1st May, 1962 as Assistant Custodian for the purpose of discharging 
the duties imposed on the Custodian by or under the said Act. Shri H. S. 
Upadhyava will exercise the powers onlv so long as he holds the post of Tehsildar 
In the office of the Regional Settlement Commissioner, Jaipur. 

[No. F. 7/n/59(II)-Pd,II(L&R),] 



Sfc, 3(ii)] THE GV/ETTE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22. 1884 


I 7 OI 


S.O. 1437. — In exeicise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section 
(2) of section 16 oi the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 
1954 (44 of 1954), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri H. S. Upadhyaya, 
Tehsildar in the Oillce of the Regional Settlement Commissioner, Jaipur with effect 
from 1st May, 1962 as Managing Officer for tHp purpose of performing the func- 
tions assigned to the Managing Officer by or under the said Act. Shri H. S. 
Upadhyaya will exercise the powers only so long as he holds the post of Tehsildar 
in the office of the Regional Settlement Commissioner Jaipur. 

[No, F. 7/11/59 (II) -Pol.II (L&R) .] 

M. J. SRIVASTAVA, 

Settlement Commissioner & 
Ex-Officio Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION & BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 4th May 1962 

S.O. 1438. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3(1) of the 
Cinematograph Act, 1952 read with rule 4 of the Cinematograph (Censorship) 
Rules, 1958, the Central Government hereby appoints Shri S. S. Vasan os a mem- 
ber of the Central Board of Film Censors with immediate effect. 

[No. F. 11/14/59.] 

B, S. DASARATHY, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 2nd May 1962 

S.O. 1439. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Kirkend Colliery and their workmen. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, DHANBAD 

Reference No. 59 of 1961. 


Parties : 


Employers in relation to the Kirkend Colliery. 

AND 


Their workmen. 

Present: 

Shri Salim M. Merchant, B.A. LL.B., Presiding Officer. 

Appearances : 

Shri Lalit Burman, Secretary, Bihar Koyla Mazdoor Sabha, for the workmen. 
Shri S. Sanyal, Manager, Kirkend colliery, for the employers. 

State: Bihar. Industry: Coal. 


Dhanbad, dated the 17 th April 1962 

AWARD 

The Government of India, Ministry of Labour and Employment, by Order 
No. 2/144 /61-LRII dated 2Pth July 1961. made in exorcise of the nnwers conferred 
by clause (d) of sub-section (1) of Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 47), was pleased to refer the Industrial dispute between the parties above 
named in respect of the subject matters stated In the following schedule to the 
said order, for adjudication to me. 

'‘Whether the management was justified in stopping Shri Muhammad Yasin 
from work with effect from 1st May 1961. If not, to what relief he 
is entitled?” 



1702 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 [Part II 


2. After the parties had filed their written statements the dispute was taken 
up for hearing at Dhanbad and after being part heard, was adjourned to 16th 
April, 1962, to enable the union to take inspection of certain registers and records 
of the colliery called for by it. 

3. At the hearing on 16th April, 1962, after the parties had made their 
submissions at some length, they negotiated for a settlement and later on field a 
joint application recording the terms of settlement and prayed that an award be 
made In terms thereof, A copy of the said joint application of the parties Is 
annexed hereto and marked Annexurc A and it shall form part of this award. As 
I am satisfied that, in the facts and circumstancos of the case, the settlement 
reached between the parties Is fair and reasonable, I accept the same and make 
an award in terms thereof, 

4. No order as to costs, 


(Sd.) Salim M. Merchant, Presiding Officer. 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad. 
Annexure A. 

BEFORE THE PRESIDING OFFICER, CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 

TRIBUNAL, DHANBAD, 

Reference No. 59 of 1961. 

Parties : 

Employers in relation to Kirkend Colliery 

AND 

their workmen, represented by Bihar Koyla Mazdoor Sabha 

This humble petition on behalf of the parties above named most respectfully 
submit: 


1. That the parties have amicably settled the dispute on the folowing terms: — 

(a) That the management will pay a sum of Rs. 250/- (rupees two hundred 

fifty) in full and final settlement to Shri Md. Yasin. 

(b) That Shri Md. Yasin with have no other claim on receipt of the above 

amount. 

(c) That the payment will be made on 18th April, 1902, in the office of the 

Tribunal. 

(d) That Shri Md. Yasin will vacate the dhowroh within a week from the 

date of the payment. 

It is therefore humbly prayed that the matter may kindly be disposed of on 
the above terms and an award may be made accordingly. 


Dhanbad, dated the 16th April, 1962. 

For the Employers: For the workmen . 

S. Sanyal, Manager Kirkend Colliery. 

Witness: (C. K. Mukherjee). 

Lalit Burman, Secretary, 

Bihar Koyla Mazdoor Sabha. 

(Md. Yasin), 
Before me. 

(Sd.) Salim M. Merchant, Presiding Officer, 

Dhanbad, 16-4-02. 
[No. 2/144/ 61-LRII.} 

New Delhi, the 3rd May 19G2 


S O. 1440.— In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, In the matter of an application under Section 
:«A of the said Act from Shn Nanhak Mall ah, Bucketman, of Loyahad Ropeway, 
r/o M/?. Indian Mine Workers Federation, Dhanbad, 



Arc. S(u)j ttifc GAztTtt OF IndIA: MAY 12, 1962/VAisAKHA 22, 1864 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, 

DHANBAD. 

Application No. 107 of 1960 
(arising out of Reference No. 27 of I960! 

Re: In the matter of a complaint under Section 33 A of Industrial Disputes Act, 

1947 (XIV of 1947). 

Parties: 

Nanhak Mallah, Bucketman, 

Loyabad Ropeway, Station A, 

c/o Indian Mine Workers Federation, 

P.O, Dhanbad, District Dhanbad, Bihar— Complainant. 

Vs. 

1. Chief Mining Engineer, 

M/s. Bird & Co. (P) Ltd., 

P.O. Sijua, District Dhanbad. 

2. The Ropeway Engineer, 

Loyabad Ropeway, 

P.O. Bansjora, District Dhanbad — Opposite parties. 

Present: 

Shri Salim M. Merchant, B.A., LL.B., Presiding Officer. 


Appearances: 

Shri Lalit Burman — for the complainant. 

Shri S. S. Mukherjea, Advocate, with 

Shri J. L. Sinha, Group Personnel Officer — for the opposite parties. 

State: Bihar. Industry: Coal. 


Dhanbad, the 17th April 1902 

AWARD 

This is a complaint purporting to be under Section 33A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 against the complainant’s alleged suspension from his service 
with effect from 7th November, 1960. The complaint is filed as arising out of 
Reference No. 27 of 196U. 

2. After the usual notices were issued and the opposite parties had filed their 
written statements in reply, at the hearing of this complaint on 16th April 1902 
Shri Lalit Burman for the complainant stated that he did not want to prosecute 
this* complaint and wished to withdraw the same as the complainant lias been 
taken back in service and has been paid his due wages. The complaint shall 
therefore stand dismissed as withdrawan. No order as to costs, 

(Sd.) Salim M, Merchant, 
Presiding Officer, 

Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 

Dhanbad. 

Dhanbad; 

The 17th April , 1962. 

[No. 8/32/62-LRII.1 


New Delhi, the 7th May 1962 

S.O. 1441. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to Messrs. T. P, Sao, Owner of Ghatkuri and Bijoy Iron and Manga- 
nese Mines, Post Office Chaibasa, District Singhbhum and their workmen. 



1704 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 [Past U 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA. 

Reference No. 1 of 1962 

Parties : 

Employers In relation to Messrs T. P. Sao, Owners of Chatkuri & Bijoy Iron 
& Manganese Mines 


AND 

Their workmen. 

Present : 

Shri L. P. Dave — Presiding Officer. 

Appearances : 

For the Employers — Shri S. C. Sen, Advocate Shri T, Tewarl, a representative of 
the firm. 

For the workmen — Shri Patit Paban Pathak, an Officer of the All India Trade 
Union Congress. 

State: Bihar Industry: Iron & Manganese Mine®. 


AWARD 


The Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment, by their 
order No. 23/6/61-LRII dated 21st March 1961, referred the industrial dispute exist- 
ing between the employers in relation to Messrs T. P. Sao, owner of Ghatkuri and 
Bijoy Iron and Manganese Mines and their workmen in respect of the question 
whether the workers of the above mines were entitled to a profit sharing bonus for 
the year 1959-80 and if so at what rates, was referred for adjudication to the Indus- 
trial Tribunal, Dhanbad. By subsequent order No. 4/90/61-LRII dated 13th Decem- 
ber 1961, proceedings in relation to the above dispute were withdrawn from the 
Dhanbad Tribunal and transferred to this Tribunal for disposal according to law. 


2 Both the workmen and the employers lUed their written statements before the 
Dhanbad Tribunal. The workers contended that the Company is In existance in this 
Industry for more than fifteen years, that it is selling its iron and manganese ore to 
the State Trading Corporation and to the Tara Iron & Steel Co,, that the wage con- 
ditions existing in the company are very miserable; that the workers were getting 
Re 1/- per day for males and -/14/- annas for females and that these rates were 
Increased by two annas in December I960; that no dearness allowance is paid to the 
workers: that the company is making huge profits; that the nett profit in respect of 
iron ore would be over Rs. 8/- per ton and in the case of manganese it would be 
still higher' that looking to the profits of the company the Union prays that three 
month’s wages should be awarded to the workmen for the year 1959-60 as profit 
sharing bonus. 


3 The employers contended that the various allegations made by the Union were 
not correct on material facts; that the Union in their charter of demand had asked 
for one month’s bonus for the year 1959-80; that it is not appreciated “nd w y 
it has increased its claim to three months; that the allegation that the nett p o ih 
the case of Iron ore exceeds Rs. 8/- per ton is a pure surmise and guess work ana 
is not true; that the principles for payment of bonus are now well settled by a 
series of decisions of the Supreme Court and according to them bonus would become 
payable only if there was a surplus available out of the profit earned by the employer 
during that Y year; that the employers have worked out the available surplus accord- 
ing to that formula and appended it as annexure ‘A’ to their written statement and 
according totSs not only was there no available surplus but there was a deficit 
and hence no bonus should be awarded to the workmen during this year. 

4 The dispute In the present case relates to the profit sharing bonus for the year 
1939-60. The employers arc the owners of Chatkuri and Bijoy Iron and Manganese 
Mines They have other business like that of Excise also; but we are not concerned 
with that business in the present reference; because the present dispute is between 
toe above employers and their workmen in the above mines. The workmen claim 
a profl? sharing bonus for the year 1959-60 which claim Is denied by the employers. 


5 The employers have filed several statements, most important of which is a 
statement prepared by a Chartered Accountant who has also prepared a statement 
Of “able su^us according to the formula which was laid 1 down i by the . Labour 
Appellate Tribunal In the case of Mill Owners Association, Bombay V. Rastriya Mill 




&fc. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OE INDIA: MAV 12, 1962/VAlSAKriA 22, 1884 


I7O5 


Mazdoor Sangh, 1952 L.A.C. 433 which has been approved of by the Supreme Court 
in several cases, the most important of them being the case of Associated Cement 
Co. Ltd. v. their workmen (1959) ILLJ. 644: The employers have also examined 
Shri Guha who is a Chailered Accountant and who has prepared different state- 
ments. The workmen have not led any evidence excepting producing a statement 
which according to them would show a sufficient availabie surplus for granting 
bonus. 

6. According to the statements (T3 and TJ ) produced by the employers, their 
gross profits for the year come to fls, 91,143.87 nP, Out of this, they have deducted 
25,646-55 nP. for depreciation on assets (see 'I'D. They have also deducted a sum 
of Rs. 11,354-54 nP. as the proportionate Head Office expenses and then showed 
the balance of profits for the Mining section as Rs. 54,143-00, Out of this nett 
profit, they claim a deduction of Rs. 30,280-00 by way of interest on average 
capital at the cate of 6 per cent, Rs. 22,314-00 for income tax and Rs. 9,000-00 as 
remuneration for the partner’s service to the business and they, therefore, say 
that there is a deficit of Rs. 7,451 (statement T2). To put in a tabulated form, 
the employers statements can be summarised as under:— 

Gross Profits: Rs. 91,143.87 nP, 

Deductions : 


(i) Depreciation on assets . 

(ii) Proportionate Herd office Exp. . 

(iii) Return on Capital @ 6% . 

(iv) Income Tax, Surcharge, Sup er Tax . 

(v) Remuneration for Partner’s service 


Rs. 25,646.55 nP. 
„ ti, 354" 51 hP- 
„ 30,280 - oo nP. 

,, 22,314-00 nP. 

,, 9,000-00 nP. 


Rs- 98,595 '06 hP. 

This shows no available surplus. 

7. So far as workmen are concerned, the calculation of available surplus as made 
by them is as under (see statement T4). 

Profit: Rs. 91,143.87 nP. 

Deductions : 

(i) Head office expense . Rs. 11,354-51 nP. 

(il) Depreciation 6,572-00 nP. 

(iii) Income Tax . 22,314-00 nP. 

(iv) Return on Capital @ 4% • . ■ . „ 20,000-00 nP- 

Nett available surplus— 1 -Rs. 30,903.36 nP. 

8. It will be seen from the above that there Is no dispute between the parties 
about the amount of the gross profit. There is also no dispute about the deductions 
for Head Office expenses which both the parties have taken as 11.354.51 nP. Simi- 
larly there is no dispute regarding the amount to be deducted, for Income tax 
namely Rs. 22,314/-. There is a dispute only in regard to three items. The first Is 
regarding depreciation. According to the employers, theyjdaim a deduction of 
Rs. 25,646.55 nP, for depreciation while the workmen urge that the deduction for 
depreciation should be Rs. 6,572/-, The second dispute is regarding return on capital. 
The employers claim deduction of Rs. 30,280/- at the rate of 6% on the average 
capital employed In the year while the workmen say that the deduction on this 
account should be only Rs. 20,000/- at the rate of 4% on the capital employed. 
The last dispute is regarding the item of Rs. 9,000/- claimed by the employers for 
remuneration in respect of services rendered by the partners' which item is disputed 
I5y the workmen. 

9. Before I proceed to discuss the above three Items, I may mention that the 
principles that should govern the grant of bonus to the workers were laid down for 
the first time by the Labour Appellate Tribunal in the well known case of Mill 


fHfe GAZETTE oE INDIA : MAY i2, 1962/VAtsAKkA 25, 1884 [Past li 


Owners Association Bombay, 1952-L.A.C., 433. The principles laid down in the 
above case by the Labour Appellate Tribunal have been approved of by the Supreme 
Court in a number of cases, the most important of them being the case of Associated 
Cement Co. Ltd. Vs. their workmen (1959) ILLJ. 644 where the Labour Appellate 
Tribunal formula was very carefully examined by the Supreme Court and approved 
of. It was held that the above formula had worked satisfactorily and that it was 
enough to meet reasonably the claims of the industry and labour Tor fair-play and 
justice. According to the formula, several Items have to be deducted from the gross 
profits to arrive at the available surplus and If there is available surplus, it is to 
be distributed between the labour, the industry and the shareholders. These items 
have to be worked out notionally on the oretlcal grounds. 


10. From the amount of gross profits, there should be a first deduction for de- 
preciation. Only the notional normal depreciation should be deducted. Initial de- 
preciation and additional depreciation allowed for income tax purposes is not be 
be taken njto consideration. The next item that has to be deducted from the gross 
profits is Income tax. In determining the Income tax, the full statutory deprecia- 
tion as allowed under the Income Tax law must be deducted from the gioss profits 
and the tax calculated on the balance. The next charge on the gross profits is 
return on paid u^ capital and working capital. Ordinarily a return of 6 per cent 
on the paid up capital should be allowed; but this can be suitably varied 
according to the circumstances of each case. The return on reserve used as 
working capital has to be fixed by the Tribunal at its discretion. The next and 
important item of deduction from the gross, profits ie the allowance for rehabilita- 
tion including replacement and modernisation. The balance, if any. remaining 
after the above deductions have been made from the gross profits would represent 
the surplus available for distribution, Labour, the industry and the shareholders 
are entitled to claim a share therein. The lvtio of distribution between these 
claimants would depend on various factors, for example, the existing wages scales 
in the concern, necessity far setting apart a gratuity fund, financial position of the 
employer, rebate of income tax available to the employers on the amount of 
bonus etc. 


11 The formula for bonus is based on two considerations. The first is that labour 
Is entitled to claim a share in the trading profits of the industry because it haa 
partially contributed to the same and the second Is that labour Is entitled to claim 
that the gap between its actual wages and the living wage should, within reason- 
able limits, be filled up. 

12 Applying the above principles to the facts of the present case, it may be 
noted os mentioned above that there is no dispute about the gross profits, nor is 
there any dispute about the amount to be deducted for Head Office expenses. There 
Is also no dispute about the deduction in respect of income fax. The dispute is only 
regarding depreciation, return on capital and remuneration to partners It may be 
noted at this stage that no amount is claimed to be deducted on the ground of 
rehabilitation, replacements or modernisation. 

13 The first and the most important item in dispute is regarding depreciation. 
As I mentioned above, the employers claim a deduction of Rs. 25,646,55 nP. under 
this head. They have worked out this amount in a chart which is marked T-3. 
According to the statement T-4 of the workmen, they dispute hems 12 to 10 of the 
chart T-3 They dispute items 12 to 14 on the ground that they would not he 
chargeable in this year but would be chargeable in the next year and they dispute 
items 15 and 10 on the ground that they are not heads of depreciation. 

14. Now. so far as items 15 and 10 are concerned, they are amounts for com- 
mission and stamp expenses in respect of purchase of new trucks and the interest 
on the amount spent in purchasing these trucks. According to the workmen these 
items cannot be said to be items of depreciation. Even if they are not items of 
depreciation and are not allowable as such, they would have to be allowed as work- 
ing expenses. It would thus not make any difference for practical purposes. I 
would, therefore, grant the deduction claimed by the employers hi respect of these 
two Items. 

15 Coming to items 12 to 14, they are items of depreciation claimed In respect 
of two Compressors, four Welding machines and five new trucks which were pur- 
chased during the year 1059-00, In the case of the compressors and welding ma- 
chines depreciation is claimed for four months while In the case of the five new 
trucks depreciation is claimed for six months. Shn Guha in his evidence has 
slated’ that these five new trucks were purchased on 25th Februaryl90O If that 
was so, I cannot understand how depreciation can be claimed or alloWed In respect 
of the same for a period of six months. I was told that under the Inoome tax law 
they can claim depreciation to this extent. No authority was shown to me In 




Sec. 3(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, I962/VAISAKHA 22, 1881 


1707 


support of this proposal, but assuming that under the Income tax law, depreciation 
can be allowed for these new trucks for a period of six months, I do not think that 
the same can be allowed when working out the available suiplus according to the 
Labour Appellate Tribunal formula. As held by the Supreme Court, the amount of 
depreciation to be deducted is a notional depreciation. The initial depreciation or 
additional depreciation allowed for Income lax purposes is not to be taken Into 
consideration. In the case of Associated Cement Co., Ltd. the statutory deprecia- 
tion allowed under Income Tax law was 165.49 lakhs, but the notional normal 
depreciation allowed for the purpose of finding available surplus to consider the 
grant of bonus was 100.22 lakhs. In other words, though under the Income Tax 
law, the employers may be entitled to a larger depreciation, they cannot claim the 
same in making the deduction for arriving at the available surplus; because only 
notional depreciation has to be allowed. As the trucks were purchased towards the 
end of February, they worked for hardly 1} months during the year. I think that 
the normal depreciation that can be allowed for the purpose of working out the 
bonus formula should be on the basis of two month's depreciation. In other words, 
In respect of the amount of R's, 13,952.50 nP. claimed under Item 14, I think that 
the notional depreciation that can be allowed under this head would be 
Rs. 4,650 ■ 83 nP. 

16. Regarding compressors and welding machines, there Is no evidence as to 
when they were purchased and in the circumstances, I would allow the deprecia- 
tion as claimed by the employers. Calculating accordingly, the deduction that can 
be allowed under the head of depreciation would be Ra. 16,344,88 nP, (and not 
Rs, 25,646.55 nP.) 

17. The next item in dispute is the item about return on paid up capital. 
The employers have claimed a sum of Rs. 30,280/- under this head stating that the 
average capital during the year was Rs. 5,04,673/-. The workm°n urge that only 
Rs. 20,000/- should be allowed on this head, at 4 per cent, on the capital. 

18. As I mentioned earlier, ordinarily 6 per cent Is allowed as return on capital. 
No doubt this can be suitably varied according to the circumstances of each case. 
But no special circumstance are alleged or proved in the present case and I see no 
reason why a return of less than 6 per cent should be allowed on capital, It may 
be noted that the amount claimed is a return on capital and not a return on reserve 
or other funds, 

19. An attempt was made during the cross examination of Shri Guha to show 
that the working capital was not 5,00,000 and odd. No doubt In ibe schedule of 
computation of capital, Shri Guha has arrived at the capital by taking the average 
of the capital on the first day of the year and the capital on the last hay c* the 
year; but In his deposition, he has also stated that he did verify as to what was 
the capital used in the middle of the year and he found that generally it was more 
than the one at the beginning and at the end. It may also be noted that according 
to the statement T4 of the Union they have agreed to a deduction of 20,000/- by 
way of the return on the capital at 4 per cent. On this basis, the capital would work 
out at Rs. 5,00,000/-. In other words, there is not much difference in the amount 
of capital as urged by the employers in their statement and as admitted by the 
Union in theirs. The only dispute was regarding the rate of return and I think 
that the employers are entitled to a return of 6 per cent. I would, therefore, up- 
hold the employers' contention on this point. 

20. The last item disputed by the workmen is an amount of Rs. 9000/- which 
is claimed by the employers as remuneration for services of the partners rendered 
to the business, No doubt if an employer has actually looked after the business, 
provision for reasonable remuneration for such employer would have to be made 
as a prior charge to be deducted from the profits of the year for determining the 
available surplus. In this connection, reliance was placed on behalf of the employ- 
ers on the case of Kodancri Estate and Its workmen 1960-1 L.L.J, 273 and the case 
of Kapoor & Co. and their workmen 1960-1 L.L.J. 510. In the first rase, a member 
of a joint Hindu family who owned the business was actually looking after the 
business and was devoting his full time and energy for the said business. The 
Supreme Court held that provision for reasonable remuneration must hr made tor 
him. In the latter case, the Proprietor was working as Manager and his salary 
was regularly debited in the account books. The Supreme Court held that this 
item could not be challenged for .the amount would have to be spent if any other 
person had been employed as a Manager, 

21. In the present case, however, there is no evidence to show as to whether all 
the three partners or any of them, are looking after the working of this business 



1708 THE GA7ETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 [Part IV 


and as to what time they spend after It. None of the partners has gone in the 
witness box nor has any one else stated anything about it. The only evidence in 
the case Is the evidence of Chartered Accountant Shri Guha, who can obviously 
have no personal knowledge as to whether the partners are looking after the busi- 
ness or not, nor can he have any personal knowledge as to what time they spend 
therein. He has admitted however that the partners are also looking after the 
other business of the Arm, 

22. As against this, the workmen have also led no evidence and they have also 
not stated as to whether the partners do any work or not. All that the workmen 
have said in their statement T4 is that partners’ services can not be allowed in 
preference to the claim of bonus for the workmen. Indirectly, therefore, they have 
admitted that the partners must be doing some work for this business also. 

23. In view of this unsatisfactory state of evidence and In view of the fact that 
It is not shown as to what work the partners are actually doing and for how 
much period, I would allow half the amount claimed by the employers under 
this head i.e. I would allow Rs. 4,500/- under this head. 

24. On the above basis, let us now make the relevant calculations. The gross 
profit is Rs. 91,143' 87 nP. Out of this, the following items will have to be deduc- 
ted:— 


(1) 

Depreciation 

. 

. Rs. 

16,344-88 nP- 

00 

Head office expenses 

. 

* 

IL354- 5i nP- 

(HO 

Income Tax 

■ 

1 M 

22,314-00 nP. 

(Iv) 

Return on Capital 

. 

• f J 

30,280-00 nP. 

(v) 

Remuneration to partners 

. 

■ »J 

4,500-00 nP. 


Total . Rs. 84,793’ 39 nP. 

Deducting this from the gross profit of Rs. 91 ,143-87 n.P., the available surplus 
would work out at Rs. 6,350/-. 

25. This brings me to the last question as to how this surplus should be distri- 
buted or as to what amount should be awarded to the labour by way of bonus. 
One of the important things to be considered in this connection is as to what the 
wages of the workmen are It was admitted before me both on behalf of the 
workmen as well as on behalf of the. employers that the wages of the workmen 
varied from Re. 1 per day to Rs, 1/6/- per dav. Taking the maximum wage of 
Rs, 1/6/- per day, a workman would earn Rs. 35-75 nP. per month for 30 working 
days. Admittedly, no dearness allowance is paid to any workman, but grains are 
supplied at concession rates. I am told that the grains so supplied are 16 seers per 
nead per month and they are supplied at the rate of 4 seers a rupee as against the 
market price of lj seers a rupee. Even after taking this concession Into account, 
It would be clear that the workmen get very low wages and that their wages are 
much less than living wage. 

26. It was also conceded before me by both sides that if the workmen were 
awarded a bonus equal to one month’s wages, the employer would be required to 
pav about Rs. 6.000/-. Looking to the fact that total available surplus is Rs. 6.350/- 
and looking to the fact that the employers would get something by way of rebate 
In Income tax for the amount paid as bonus and looking further to the fact lhat 
the workmen are getting very low WRges, I would award them q bonus equal tc 
20 (twenty) days’ wages which I believe would require payment of about 
Rs, 4,000/-. 

27 Tn the result, I hold that the workers are entitled to a profit sharing bonus 
equal to 20 (twenty) days' wages for the year 1959-60 and I pass my award ac- 
cordingly, 

L. P. Dave, Presiding Officer. 

Dated- Calcutta, The 25th April, 1902. 

[No, 23/0/61-LRII.] 



Sec. 5(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1709 


ORDERS 

New T}elhi, the 2nd May 1962 

S.O. 1442. — Whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers In relation to the Sitaldasji Selected Colliery 
and their workmen in respect of the matter specified in the Schedule hereto an- 
nexed; 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
(d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal, with 
Shri Hemanta Kumar Chaudhury as the Presiding Officer with headquarters at 
Patna, and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Industrial Tribunal. 

Schedule 

Whether the management was justified in not re-employing the three retrench- 
ed workmen, Sarvashrl Naresh Kurnl, Dipan Keot and Gour Chandra Mazumdar, 
water supplier, pump khalasi and munshi respectively? If not, to what relief are 
they entitled and from what date? 

tNo. 2/241/61-LRII.l 


New Delhi, the 3rd May 1962 

8.0. 1443, — Whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the East Bastacolla Colliery 
and their workmen in respect of the matters specified In the Schedule hereto 
annexed; 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
(d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal, with 
Shrl Hemanta Kumar Chaudhury as the Presiding Officer, with headquarters at 
Patna, and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Industrial Tribunal. 

Schedule 

Whether the dismissal of Sri Balai Kewat by the management of East Bastacolla 
Colliery was justified? If not, to what relief is he entitled? 

[No. 2/34/62-LRIL] 

5.0. 1444.— In exercise of th° powers conferred bv clause (d) of sub-section 
(1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby makes the following amendment in the Order of the Govern- 
ment of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment No. S.O. 1188, dated 
the 17th May, 1961, namely: — 

In the Schedule to the said Order, after the word "paragraph” and before 
the figure and letter ‘‘164(b)”, the figure and words "163 and para- 
graph" shall be Inserted. 


[No. 10(39) /60-LRIV.] 


New Delhi, the 7th May 1962 

S.O. 1445. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Sltasongi mine of Seth 
Gopikisan Agarwal and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed; 1 1 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the In- 
dustrial Tribunal, Bombay, constituted under section 7-A, of the said Act. 



1710 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 [Part II 


Schedule 

Whether the management of SitasonRl Mine of R.S. Seth Gopikisan Agar- 
wal was Justified in reducing the niece rates per frame of 10 Cft,, of 
chilly boulder ore from Rs. 10 to Rs. 12 and to Rs. 14 in week ending 
1st February, 1962, and 8th February, 1962. respectively in respect of 
the workmen employed in Section No, 1. of the said mine. If not 
what relief should be given to the workmen concerned and from 
what date? 


[No. 23/8/62-LRII.l 


New Delhi, the 8th May 1962 

SO. 1440.— Whereas, the employers in relation to the Chirimiri Colliery and 
their workmen, represented by the Chhattisgarh Colliery Workers’ Federation, 
Post Office Chirimiri, District Surguja (Madhya Pradesh) have Jointly applied 
to tV' Central Government for reference to a Tribunal of an industrial dispute 
in respect of the matters set forth in the said application and reproduced in the 
Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas, the Central Government is satisfied that the said Chhattisgarh 
Colliery, Workers’ Federation represents a majority of the workmen; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
(d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947). the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal, with 
Shrl Ganesh Prasad Bhutt as the Presiding Officer, with headquarters at Indore 
City and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Industrial Tribunal. 

The Schedule 
FORM ‘A’ 

’(Rule 3) 

Form of application for the reference of an industrial dispute to a Tribunal 
under Section 10(2) of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947. 

Whereas an industrial dispute exists between the Management of Chirimiri 
Colliery, Amrit Bhavan, Residency Road, Nagpur, and the Workmen of Chirimiri 
Colliery, P.O. Chirimiri, S. E, Rly., District Surguja, Madhya Pradesh, represented 
by the Chhattisgarh Colliery Workers’ Federation. P.O. Chirimiri, and it is 
expedient that the dispute specified in the enclosed statement which is connected 
or relevant to the dispute should be referred for adjudication by a Tribunal an 
application is hereby made under section 10(2) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947, that the said dispute should be referred to a Tribunal 

A statement giving the particulars required under rule 3 of the Industrial 
Disputes (Central) Rules, 1957, is attached. 

Dated: 9th March 1902 

For the Management For the Workmen 

Sd/- Sd/- Sd/- 

General Manager Vice President Secretary 

Chirimiri Colliery Company, Chhattisgarh Colliery Workers’ 

“Amrit Bhavan”, Residency Rd., Federation, P.O. Chirimiri, 

Post Box 83, Nagpur-1. Dist. Surguja, Madhya Pradesh. 

To 


The Secretary, 

to the Government of India, 

Ministry of Labour and Employment, 

New Delhi, 

Statement required under rule 3 of the Industrial Disputes (Central) Rules 
1957 to accompany th" form of application prescribed under sub-section (2) of 
Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, 



Sue. J(ii)] 


tHfe GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 1962/VAISAK.HA 22, 1884 


I^Il 


(a) Parties to the dispute including the name and address of the establish- 

ment or undertaking involved. 

Management of Chirimiri Colliery known as CHIRIMIRI COLLIERY 
COMPANY, Amrit Bhavan, Residency Road, Nagpur — 1. 

AND 

Workmen of Chirimiri Colliery as represented by CHHATTISGARH 
COLLIERY WORKERS’ FEDERATION, P.O. Chirimiri, Distt. Surguja, 
Madhya Pradesh. 

(b) Specific matter in dispute 

“Whether the workmen of Chirimiri Colliery are entitled to wages for 
the strike period from 23rd February 19G2 to 4th March 1962.” 

(c) Total number of workmen employed in the undertaking affected — 1,900. 

(d) Estimated number of workmen affected or likely to be affected by the 

dispute — 1,100. 

(e) Efforts made by the parties themselves to adjust the dispute. 

There were mutual discussions for several days between the Chhattisgarh 
Colliery Workers’ Federation and the Management of Chmmiri 
Colliery Company which did not result in resolving the dispute. As 
the strike continued the management thought it best to request tele- 
graphically the Regional Labour Commissioner (C), Jabalpur, to 
conciliate in the matter. Conciliation proceedings were, therefore, 
started and an agreement on all the points was arrived at except 
that the Chhattisgarh Colliery Workers’ Federation claimed wages 101 
the workers during the period of strike i.e. 23rd February to 4th 
March 1002, As no agreement could be arrived at on this point, the 
parties agreed to refer the dispute for adjudication. 

[No. 8/33/02-LRII.l 

S.O. 1441. — Whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to East Bastacolla Colliery and 
their workmen in respect of the matter specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
(d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government, hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal, with 
Shri Hemanta Kumar Chaudhury as the Presiding Officer with headquarters at 
Patna, and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Industrial Tribunal, 

Schedule 

Whether the transfer of Shri Biru Sen to Upper Kendra Colliery is justified? 
If not, to what relief is he entitled? 


[No. 2/41 /62-LRII.] 
A. L. HANDA, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 3rd May 1962 

S.O. 1448. — Whereas, in the opinion of the Central Government:-— 

(1) the rules of the provident fund of M/s. Naffar Chandra Jute Mills 

Ltd., Kankinarah, 24, Parganas and M/s. Premier Stores Supplying 
Company Ltd., 0/1, Dilariung Road, Calcutta-2 (hereinafter refer- 
red to as the said establishments), with respect to the rates of con- 
tribution are not less favourable to the employees therein than 
those specified in section 0 of the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 
1952 (19 of 1952); and 

(2) the employees in the said establishments are also in enjoyment of 

other provident fund benefits which on the whole are not less 
favourable to the employees than the benefits provided under the 
Employees’ Provident Funds Scheme, 1952 (hereinafter referred to 
as the said Scheme) in relation to the employees in any other 
establishment of a similar character; 



tHfe GAZETTE Of INDIA : MAY 12, 19G2/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 [Part li 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred, by clause (a) of sub- 
section (1) of section 17 of the Employees' Provident funds Act, luo2 (18 of 
1952), the Central Government, hereby, exempt me said establishments with 
effect from the 1st November 1952 and the 1st r ebruary, 1958 respectively irom 
the operation of all the provisions of the said Scheme, subject to the conditions 
specified in Schedule hereto annexed, which are in addition to the conditions 
mentioned in the Explanation to sub-section (1) of tne said section 17. 

Schedule 


Conditions of exemption 

Every establishments shall have a provident fund scheme in force the rules 
of which with respect to the rates of contribution shall not be less favourable 
than those specified in section ti of the Act and the employees shall also be in 
enjoyment of other provident fund benefits which on the whole shall not be 
less favourable to the employees than the benefits provided under the Act or 
any Scheme in relation to the employees in any other establishment of a similar 
character and these rules shall be followed in all respects. 

2. The employer in relation to each establishment (hereinafter referred to 
as the ‘employer’) shall withm three months of the date of publication of this 
notification, amend the constitution of the Provident Fund maintained in respect 
of the establishment in regard to the following matters, namely: — 

(a) the Provident Fund shall vest in a Board of Trustees and there 

shall be a valid instrument in writing, which adequately safeguards 
the interests of the employees and such instrument shall be duly 
registered under section 5 of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 (2 of 1882); 

(b) the Board of Trustees shall consist of an equal number of represen- 

tatives of the employees and the employer and all questions before 
the Board shall be decided by a majority of votes; 

(c) the employer shall nominate one of his representatives on the Board 

as the Chairman who may exercise a casting vote if so provided 
under the rules of the establishment. Where a casting vote is 
exercised or where no casting vote is exercised but the opinion of 
the representatives is equally divided, the matter shall be referred 
to the Regional Provident Fund Commissioner or the State Provident 
Fund Commissioner appointed under the said Scheme (hereinafter 
referred to as Regional/State Commissioner) withm whose jurisdic- 
tion the factory to which the matter relates is situated and whose 
decision in the matter shall be final. 

3 The Provident Fund rules of any establishment shall not be amended 
except with the previous approval of the Regional/State Commissioner. Where 
any ame n dm ent affects the interests of the employees, before giving his approval, 
the Regional/State Commissioner shall give a reasonable opportunity to the 
employees to explain their point of view. 

4 (a) The employer shall maintain accounts of the Provident Fund in such 
manner and submit such returns to the Regional/State Commissiolner as the 
Central Provident Fund Commissioner may, from time to time direct. 


(b) The employer shall furnish to the Regional/State Commissioner such 
accounts relating to the Provident Fund of the establishment as the Central 
Provident Fund Commissioner may prescribe from time to time. He shall also 
furnish an annual statement of account or a Pass Book, in such form as may 
be approved, to each subscriber who, but for the exemption, would have been 
member of the Fund established under the Employees’ Provident Fund Scheme, 
1952. 1 


(c) The employer shall make all investment of accumulations accruing after 
the date of exemption in securities of the Central Government. The reinvest- 
ment or conversion of securities on maturity shall also be in the securities of 
the Central Government. The employer shall formulate a procedure for prompt 
investment of provident fund moneys and shall get it approved from the con- 
cerned Regional/State Commissioner. 


5 The employer shall afford such facilities for inspection of the accounts 
of the Provident Fund as the Central Provident Fund Commissioner may from 
time to time specify. 




Sec. S(ii>j THE GAZETTE OE INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VALSAkHA 22, 1384 


1 713 


6. All expenses involved in the administration of the Provident Fund Scheme 
including the maintenance of accounts, submission ui accounts and returns, Lruns- 
Ier ol accumulations and payment ol inspection charges shall be borne by the 
employer. 

7. The employer shall display on the notice board of his establishment in 
English, a copy of the approved rules and the translation of salient points of the 
rules in the language oc the majority of workers respectively. 

8. The employer shall within 3 niuntns of the date of publication of this 
notification transfer to the Board of li Listens the accumulations standing to the 
credit of the employees who but for the exemption would have been members 
of the Statutory E und. 

9. When the Fund is wound up or exemption of the establishment is cancel- 
led, accumulations standing to the credit of the employees who, but for the 
exemption, would have been members of the Statutory Euna shall be transfer- 
red to that Fund as soon as possible anu, in any ease not later than 30 days 
in the case of securities and not later than 10 days in the case of cash an hand 
or bank, together with a statement or statements as may be required by the 
Kegional/State Commissioner or Commissioners concerned. 

10. The employer shall accept the past provident fund accumulations of an 
employee who is already a member of the Employees Provident Fund or an 
exempted iund and who obtains employment in his establishment. Such an 
employee shall immediately be admuted as a member of the establishments’ 
Provident Fund. His accumulations which shall be transferred within 3 months 
of his joining the establishment shall be credited to Ins account. 

11. The employer shall provide for nomination in his provident fund rules 
in accordance with the provisions contained in paragraph G1 of the Employees' 
Provident Funds Scheme, 1952, 

12. The amount of contributions shall be calculated to the nearest quarter of 
a rupee; that is, 12-5 naye paise or more shall be counted as the next higher 
quarter ot a rupee and tractions of a rupee less than 12-5 naye paise shah be 
ignored. The amounts of inspection charges and damages shall be calculated to 
the nearest 5 naye paise; that is, 2-5 naye paise or more shall be counted as 
5 naye paise and any amount less than 2-5 naye paise shall be ignored. 

13. On all repayable loans granted by establishments interest shall be charged 
at the rate of 44 per cent or 1 per cent above the rate allowed on the balance 
to the credit of the members whichever is higher, 

14. The employer shall pay to the Regional/State Commissioner inspection 
charges payable, failing wliich damages shall be paid at a rate fixed by the 
Central Government from time to time. 

15. Exemption granted by this notification is liable to be withdrawn by the 
Central Provident Fund Commissioner for breach of any of the aforesaid' con- 
ditions or for any other sufficient cause which may be considered appropriate. 

[No. 9(9) 81-PF.IL] 
P. D. GAIHA, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 4th May 1962 

S.O. 1449.— -In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act 19 47 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Madras, in the industrial dispute between the nmnlnvo™ 
relation to the Bank of Madura Limited and their workmen. P ^ eltl m 

BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, MADRAS. 

Thursday, the twelfth day of April, One thousand nine hundred and slru, 
two (22 nd day of Chaitra, 1884 Saka): C “ svc1 - v ~ 

Present 

Sri K. Ramaswami Goundar, B.A., ML 
Industrial Dispute No. 8 op 1962. 

(In the matter of dispute between the workmen and the management 

Bank of Madura Limited, Maduiai). management of 



t 7 l 4 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAkHA 2 2, 1b84 [Pari U 


Between: 

The General Secretary, 

Bank of Madura Employees Union, 

Malabar House, 
ltailway Street Road, 

Coimbutore. 

AND 

The Secretary, 

Bunk of Madura Limited, 

Nos. 82-63, East Avammoola Street, 

P.B. No. 76, Madurai. 

Reference: 

Order No. 51/2/02-LR IV, dated 12th March, 1962, Ministry of Labour and 
Employment, Government oi India, New Delhi. 

Issues: ' | 

“(1) Whether the Bank of Madura Limited was justified in placing Sarva- 
shri A. R. Sambanuam and S. VenkaLaraman under suspension? If 
so, was the said company under any obligation to pay any subsis- 
tence or other allowance or wages ui the aioresaid workmen m res- 
pect of the period ol tnc suspension/ 

(2) Whether the subsequent termination of the services of the aforesaid 
workmen was justified? 

1,3) What relief, if any, are the workmen entitled to?” 

This dispute coming on for hearing on Tuesday and Wednesday the 10th and 
11th days oi April, 1962, and on this day, upon perusing the reference, waim and 
counter statements and all other papers material to this dispute anu upon hearing 
Sri P. J, Scetharaman, Advocate tot tnc Union and bn G. Swaminatna Iyer, Raw 
Oificer for the management, the Tribunal passed the tollowtng. 

AWARD 

This reference relates to two of the employees of the Bank of Madura Limited, 
A. R. Sambandam and S. Venkatraman, whose services have been terminated on 
charges ot misconduct. The Bank has got its head office at Madurai with bran- 
ches in a number of places, such as Coimbatore, Cochin, Alieppcy etc. The union 
which represents these two workers has hied a claim statement setting out tfie 
circumstance in which the action was lakcn against them and contending that it 
was an act oi victimisation on the part of the management as they happen to be 
office-bearers of the Bank Employees Union, ana that the termination of their 
services was illegal and unjustified, and praying that they should be reinstated 
with full back wages and continuity of service. The bank lias filed a counter 
statement maintaining that the action taken against them was justified in the 
circumstances and that the decision taken after a domestic enquiry cannot be 
questioned in this reference as it was a full and fair enquiiy made after giving 
tiie employees every opportunity for defending themselves against the charges. 

2. We may first consider the charges against the first of them, namely A. R. 
Sambandam. In August, 1961, he was v orking in the Coimbatore branch as 
cashier, when he was transferred as cash.er to the Cochin branch. He according- 
ly joined the Cochin branch on the 21st August, 1961. On 4th September, 1961, 
a Memo of charge Ex. W-2, was served upon him to show cause why disciplinary 
action by way of dismissal should not be taken ugainst him, and the charge wa3 
that he has been soliciting and accepting gifts irom constituents of the Bank. On 
28th September, 1961, the Bank issued an additional Memo Ex. W-2 (a) giving 
particulars of the persons from whom the gift was received, as well as tiie 
amounts received. It will be seen from that Memo thal he is alleged to have 
received gifts from five constituents of the Bank, all belonging to Dharapuram In 
Coimbatore District, of small amounts such as Rs. 2, 3 or 5. It also mentions four 
other persons of the same place from whom Sambandam is alleged to have 
solicited gifts. Pending enquiry on those charges. Sambandam was placed 
under suspension by the order Ex. W-3, dated 11th September, 1961. The con- 
ciliation Officer interfered in the matter but without success. Subsequently, on 
25th September, 1961, Sambundum was seived with a memo Ex. W-5, containing 
additional three heads of charges: 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GA/ETTE OF INDIA: MAY 12, 19G2/VAISAKIIA 22, 1884 


1715 


(1) The first was that he applied for casual leave and permission from 23rd 
to 27th August and handed over the leave letter and the safe-keys to the Officer- 
in-charge at his residence, when the officer told him that he was going out of 
the station on 24th August and therefore could not grant him casual leave; but 
the keys were handed over to the Officer and the leave was avaiided of on loss of 
pay; as Cashier in joint custody of the Bank’s safe-keys, Sambandam had com- 
mitted a grave breach of discipline by absenting himself from Cochin without 
sanction and handing over the keys to the officer, who was holding the other joint 
keys and hence acted in an irresponsible manner and against the interest and 
safety of the Banks cash und securities. 


(2) The second charge was that Sambandam applied for one-day leave on 
2nd September, 1961, on the ground that he had to attend a function in Virechilai; 
he did not go there on that date, but went to Coimbatore; that is to say, he 
applied for leave on a false ground. (3) The third was that Sambandam appli- 
ed on 31st July, 1901, for privilege leave for 12 days from 5th August, 1061, for 
eye-testing and eye-treatment, and after obtaining sanction, spent the time in 
going about Dharapuram Salem, Madras and other places, that is to say, he 
made a false statement for obtaining leave. 

3 There was an enquiry on those four charges, and the enquiry officer found 
him cuilty on all the charges, and accepting that finding the management passed 
the Order Ex. W-7, dated 26th December, 1961, terminating his services with 
immediate effect. 


4, It is now well established that as against the findings the domestic enquiry 

this tribunal cannot sit in judgment as a court of appeal, and the limits of its in- 
terference arc defined bv the Supreme Court in the Indian Iron and S ■' 

Ltd., case, (1958 S.C.R. 007), in which it is laid down that such interference can 
only be on the following grounds: 

" In cases of dismissal on misconduct, the Tribunal does n , ot - however, 

ad as Court of appeal and substitute its own judgement for that of 
the management. It will interfere ( 1 ) when there is want of goo 
faith, (ii) when there is victimisation or unfair labour prMtice. O A 
when the management has been guilty of a basic error °r violation of 
a orinclple of natural justice, and <jv) when on the materials the 
finding is completely baseless or preversc - 

5. We have therefore to consider, in the light of those principles whether ^ny 

such ground exists in this case for interference. As stated ab • th " 0 consti _ 
was that Sambandam has been soliciting and accepting fii f rame d Staff 

tuents of the Bank, which is . against discipline^ The Bank has^framed Man 
Regulations and Rules of Service, marked as Ex, M " 3 „ , f rom a c on- 

lations provides that an employee shall not solicit, or a _ constituents 

stituent of the Bank or from a subordinate employee. ^ 

of the Bank mentioned in Ex. W-2(a) were oxamined. It mav be menuonea j. 
Sambandam. as the Vice-president of the J^ plo ^f e ^ence of onl of the 

lectlng donations to augment the funds of the ' j j,, 5 for the union, 

constituents was +b at Sambandam asked hi of tbe 0 thcr constituent was 

and he paid it and obtained a receipt. The . x t therefore clear that 

that Sambandam asked him donation for the « • from the constituents of 

the donation which Sambandam asked for and „lf" This fact is admitted bv 
the bank were all for the union and not for hi . ■ - • acceptance of any gift 
Sambandam himself The Enquiry Officer held Recru i a tions and therefore lie 

for the union is prohibited by article 19 of the Staff ■ e g^^ ba ndam did not solicit 
is guilty of serious misconduct Tt must be s ate . bFm ]c premises, 

oc collect donations for the union during "?^-!5 ba tor e where he was employed. 
That he did at Dharapuram and not ^ vrr ’ n t c oimbatore const ituents of the 

But the contention is that the acceptance 1 Ordinarily, a gift implies 

Bank even for the Union i- prohibited bv that arthle^ Urcim^ 

thnt it benefits the person who aceepts it. 1 h ^ e „ uiLqpif from any constituent 
hibiting any employee from securing any h™ 1 ’ ™ uid^ e induced to show some 
to whom bv reason of such gift the emoiovee w d b exfend this prohibition 
special favour. There is no such h^JA^bllr or charitable purposes or 

even to cases where donations are collected t pub^^.^^ was to prohibit even 
Other deserving causes. If the intention of th . r language so as to 

such donations, the relevant article ^nd to he draft 1anRURPP , there is no 

leave no room for anv doubt. On the absen j ‘gift' in that article and 

iustifleation to give an extended meaning to the worn constituents m 

find this employee guilty because out of office hours ana iru 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, L0G2/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 [Part II 


other places, he collected small donations for the union. If there is any ambigui- 
ty or doubt in regard to the scope of that article, it must go to the benefit of the 
employee who is in the position of an accused. In my view, therefore, Sambandam 
was not guilty of the breach of the regulation by reason of his collecting small 
donations from the bank’s constituents in other places for the purpose of the 
union, 


6. As regards the second charge, namely, that he absented himself from 
Cochin from the 23rd to 27th August, without sanction, handing over the joint 
keys to the officer who was holding the other set of keys and therefore acted in 
an irresponsible manner. At that time Sambandam was working in the Cochin 
Branch of which one Murugappan was the Offieer-in-chargc. He was the officer 
competent to grant leave to the Cashier. And so, Sambandam presented to him 
a leave application on 23rd August, 1961. The leave application bears an endorse- 
ment of the Offlcer-in-charge to the effect that the leave was sanctioned on loss 
of pay. It also makes a record of the fact that the Cashier’s safe-keys were 
handed over to the Agent. It is therefore meaningless to say that the Cashier 
left the station without sanction. But, it was urged that Sambandam should not. 
have, under any circumstances, handed over the safe keys to the Officer-in-charge 
who was already holding the other set of keys and thereby placed the cosh and 
the securities of the Bank in jeopardy. Sri Swamintha Iyer who appeared for 
tb ' management was not able to draw my attention to any of the regulations of 
the Bank in regard to the handing over the keys that under no circumstances the 
LT.hier could hand over the keys to the officer-in-charge who is already holding 
the other set of keys. It so happened that in the present cose, the other two 
clc ~ks who could receive the keys from the cashier were not available. It was 
the duty of the Offlccr-in-charge to give directions as to the custody of the keys. 
He gave no such directions, but received the keys himself. I fail to see why 
Sambandam should be punished for what the Officer-in-charge did or omitted to 
do. He should have refused the leave and compelled Sambandam to stay on or 
having granted the leave he should have given appropriate directions as to what 
Sambandam should do with the keys. The direction he gave was to receive the 
keys himself. It was not the contention of the management that the Cashier 
could have taken the keys himself when he left the station on leave. He had to 
hand over the keys before he left, The offlccr-in-charge did not direct the 
cashier to hand over the keys to somebody else. There is no rule or regulation 
brought to my notice that even in such circumstances the cashier should not 
have handed over the keys to the Officer. It was pointed out by the manage- 
ment that there was no such urgency for Sambandam to leave the station after 
handing over the keys to the Offlcer-in-charge, but he could have waited in the 
station till someone else became available to take over the keys from him. This 
line of reasoning is meaningless, for when once the leave was sanctioned he had 
a right to leave the station after handing over the keys to such person as the 
offlCer-in-charge might direct. It will also he seen from the evidence of the 
Offlcer-in-charge that during those days he had himself obtained the sanction of 
the higher authorities to leave the station, and so he had handed over his set of 
keys to the Offlcer-in-charge at the Alleppey Branch, so that at the time when 
Sambandam handed over his set of keys, the offlcer-in-charge did not have with 
him his own set of keys. This, Sambandam knew, as he was told so at that time. 
Thus when Sambandam handed over his keys, both the sets of keys had not gone 
into the hands of the Officer-in-charge, It was pointed out that It was open to 
the Officer-in-charge to obtain his own set of keys from Alleppey and make use 
of both sets of keys. But Sambandam could not ordinarily be expected to con- 
template and provide for all such contingencies. Sambandam might not know 
when the keys at Alleppey would become available to the Officer-in-charge. If 
the circumstances were such that the Cashier should not leave the station, hand- 
ing over the keys to the Offlcer-in-charge, it was clearly the duty of the Officer 
to have refused the leave and compelled the cashier to remain in th“ station. 
The finding of the enquiry-officer was that the sanction given by the Officer- in- 
charge cannot be considered to be a willing sanction but a sanction obtained by 
coercion. I should only characterise that finding as fantastic. It is. difficult to 
Imagine what coercion or compulsion the cashier could have exercised on the 
Offlcer-in-charge for obtaining the sanction. It may be that the Offlcer-in-charge 
was reluctant to grant it; but it is utterly meaningless to say that it was extracted 
out of him bv coercion or compulsion Indeed, the Officer himself In Ms letter 
dried 26th Aiumst. 1961, to the Head Office reoorted that he granted the leave 
on loss of r.av to the Cashier and received the keys, and that the cashier pressed 
him for lea-a'e The enquiry-officer also found that Sambandam had acted in a 
most irresponsible manner without caring for the Bank’s interest in not remain- 
ing at Cochin but going to Coimbatore vhere ho had no urgent business, it is 



Sec. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1717 


difficult to understand this finding, for, when once the leave was sanctioned by 
a competent authority, he had the necessary permission to leave the station. If 
Sambandam's leaving the station was detenmental to the bank’s interest, It was 
clearly the duty of the Officer-in-charge to have prevented it by refusing to grant 
the leave. Sri Scctharmun appearing for the union contended that there is no 
article in the Bank’s Regulations (Ex. M-3) prohibiting the handing over of the 
keys to the Officer -in- charge who -was holding the other set of keys. But, under 
Article 25 an employee who “knowingly does anything detrimental to the in- 
terests of the Bank” will render himself liable for punishment. On the facts of 
tins case, it is clear that Sambandum did not knowingly do anything detrimental 
to the interests of the Bank. What he did was done with the full sanction and 
concurrence of the competent authority. There is no article in the Bank’s regu- 
lations providing that under no circumstances the cashier should hand over his 
set of keys to the Officer-in-charge. In my view, this charge must fail. 


7. The other two charges may he taken together. Sambandam applied for 
leave on 2nd September 1961 on the ground that he had to attend a function at 
ills sister’s house in Virachilai and did not go there, but spent the time at Coim- 
batore, and similarly he applied for 12 days privilege leave In August 1961 for 
eye testing and eye treatment but spent the time going about other places; in 
other words he obtained leave on both the occasions on false grounds. The expla- 
nation offered by Sambandham was not accepted by the Enquiry-Officer. His 
finding was that on both the occasions he applied for leave on false grounds 
which is against the staff regulations. But there is nothing in the stall regulations 
(Ex. M-3) to constitute false grounds in leave applications into an act of mis- 
conduct. In the absence of any such regulations, it will not be permissible for the 
management to terminate the services of an employee on that ground. The 
remedy is to amend the regulations or to refuse leave to employees who resort to 
false grounds. 

8. It follows that none ol the charges on which Sambandam was sent out of 
service is legally sustainable, and the findings of the Enquiry Officer must be 
characterised as perverse and call lor the interference by this Tribunal. 


9. Sri Seetharaman for the union also contended that in this case, the order 
Ex. W-7 terminating the services of Sambandam was passed by the Secretary of 
the Bank and under the regulations he was not the competent authority to do so. 
It will be seen from Article 3 of the regulations that Sambandam as cashier Will 
fall under category ‘D’. The management contended that ho would fall under cate- 
gory ‘E’ as he was only an assistant in the cash department, But the order Ex- 
W-i shows that Sambandam was a cashier in Coimbatore and was transferred to 
Cochin Branch as cashier. It will also he seen that in the charge-sheets Exs. W-2 
and W-5, as well as in the orders W-3 and W-3 (a), Sambandam is described only 
as Cashier of the Cochin Branch and not as an assistant in the cash department. 
It must therefore be taken that he belongs to category ’D’. That being so, under 
article 27 or the Regulations, the Secretary is given no power to pass the order of 
discharge or dismissal against that category of employees. It follows that the dis- 
charge of Sambandam from service by the Secretary was made by an authority not 
competent to do so. 

10 The result is that the discharge of Sambandam from service was utterly 
unjustified, and in all the circumstances of this ease it seems to me that he was 
made the victim of those charges only because as Vice-President he was collecting 
donations for the union and actively participating in its organisation. 


11. The other employee concerned in this reference is Venkataraman, a clerk 
In the Central Office at Madurai. In Septcmher-October 1901, charge memos Exs. 
W-8 and W-8(a) were served upon him charging him that on the evening of 7th 
September 1981 at about 8-30 p.m. after office hours, he went upstairs to the office 
and typed some private letter and interfered with the Steno-Typist s drawer and 
ransacked the papers. Pending enquiry he was placed under suspension by the 
order Ex W-9 dated 27th October 1961. An enquiry was held on that charge, and 
the enquiry papers are filed as Ex. M-4. Three witnesses were examined In sup- 
port of the charge namely, the Inspector of Branches Mr, P. K. Srlnivasan, Ac- 
countant Ratnam, and th" Peon Pitchai. I have been take" thro1 ^ 1 ? 
denre and I find that not one of them has spoken to the charge that this clerk 
opened the drawer of the Steno-tvpist’s table and ranspked the papers. No doubt, 
the drawer remained open, hut they did not depose and that it was the clerk who 
opened it. They do not know if the clerk ransaked the pawrs in the drawer The 
Enquiry Officer’s finding that this clerk would have stealthily gone upstairs to the 
'fienngrnpher's table to fish out information relating to union matters, is based on 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1%2/VA1SAKHA 22, 1884 [Part II 


pure Imagination. What all the witnesses saw was that this clerk was typing a 
paper on the steno-typist’s typewriting machine. His table was downstairs, and 
because he found the machines there all locked up, he went upstairs to do do this 
small typing. Peon Pitchai saw It and reported to the Accountant. Ratnam, Who 
came and remonstrated with Venkataraman. The Inspector of Branches was then 
writing his report and he also went upstairs. All that the evidence establishes in 
this case is that on the machine of the slenotypist, shortly alter office hours, this 
clerk typed a small private matter, This is all the misconduct which the clerk 
was guilty of and no other. It wilL be seen that this clerk is employed In tiie 
very same office, and not a stranger to it. There is no evidence that he stealthily 
went upstairs to spy out informal ion for the union. There is no evidence that he 
had any criminal Intent when he went upstairs. The lact that he typed some pri- 
vate letter on the typewriter belonging to another clerk of the same office is cer- 
tainly not an offence entailing loss of his job. There is nothing in the regulations 
Justifying fhe termination of his services for this percadills. To terminate his 
services under such circumstances seems to me perverse and an act of victimisa- 
tion for his being a member of the executive committee of the union. It will also 
be seen that under Art. 27 of the Staff Regulations, the Secretary of the Bank can 
pass the order of dismissal In regard to this clerk who falls under category ‘E’. 
But Instead of doing so, the matter appears to have been placed before the Board 
of Directors, who accepted the findings of the enquiry officer and resolved to ter- 
minate the services of this clerk. When the clerk applied for the copy of the find- 
ings of the Enquiry Officer, the Secretary refused to comply with his request on 
the ground that It was a confidential document. It will be seen that if the Secre- 
tary had passed the order terminating the services of the clerk, he would have 
had the right of appeal to the Board under Article 29. By the procedure adopted 
by the Secretary, the clerk was denied not only his right of appeal but also the 
right to obtain a copy of the Enquiry Officer's findings. In the above circumstan- 
ces, I feel compelled to interfere with the punishment nwarded to this employee. 


12 In the result, in the case of both these employees, the charges are unsus- 
tainable, and they did not deserve to be sent out of service. Circumstances point 
to the inference that all their trouble was due to the fact that they were active 
members of the union. Both these employees must therefore be reinstated with 
back wages and without break in ihe continuity of service. In view of this find- 
ing, It is unnecessary to consider the question of suspension raised under Issue 
No.’ 1. 


13 An objection was taken by the management as to the maintainability of 
this reference on the ground that the office-bearers of the union were not duly 
authorised to raise this dispute on behalf of these employees, and therefore It 
must be regarded as an individual and not an industrial dispute. It is true that 
a dispute relating to an individual worker can become an industrial dispute only 
ir It Is snonsored by the union or by a considerable number of workers. In this 
case the union has produerd the minutes book Exs. W-12 and W-12(a). Ex W-12 
is the minutes of the emergency meeting ol the executive committee and unit 
representatives wherein a strong protest was recorded against the suspension of 
Sambandam and Venkataraman, It authorised the office-bearers of the union to 
take all necessary steps to safeguard the interests of the employees. Ex W-12 al 
is the minutes of the emergency meeting of the Central Committee and the active 
workers held on 28th January 1962, resolving that an application should be filed 
to the Government of India for a reference of this dispute for adjudication, and 
authorising the General Secretary to take necessary steps. It will thus be seen 
that the Individual disputes of these two employees were sponsored by the union, 
as a result of which this reference was made by the Government. It was conten- 
ded for the management that there was no meeting of the general body. In which 
any such resolution was passed, But according to the bye-laws of the union, the 
general body shall consist only of the representatives elected from among the mem- 
bers of each Branch at the rate of one representative for every ten employees. 
As this dispute is sponsored by the union, about whose representative capacity 
there is no controversy, it must be considered to he an Industrial dispute. 


13. There will be an award as stated above. 


(Sd.) K. RamaswaMi Gottndar, 

Industrial Tribunal. 


iNo. SI (21 /A2-LRTV1 



Sec. 8 (H)] THE GAZETTE OE JNftlA : kAV IS, lMS/VAisAKHA £2. 1884 1719 


iVcw Delhi, the 7th May, 1962 

S.O, 1450.— In pursuance oi section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1!,47 (14 
of 1947), the Cential Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
.Labour Court, Dhanbad, In the matter of an application under section 33-A of 
the said Act from Shri Kant Kumar Dwivedi, ex-employee ol the United Com- 
mercial Bank Limited. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT LABOUR COURT, DHANBAD 
Application No. 284 of 1961 

(ansing out ol R_ieience No. 1 of K'60 of the National Industrial Tribu- 
nal (Bank Disputes) Bombay). 

In the matter of complaint under Section 33 -A. of Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947 (XIV ol i7), tiansierred from the tile of the National Indus- 
trial Tribunal (Bank Disputes), Bombay, by letter No. NIT (Banks)/ 
134/60, dated 27th January, 1961. 


Parties: 

Shri Kant Kumar Dwivedi, c/o Bihar Provincial Bank Employees Associa- 
tion, Mokhtartoli, Patna-3. — Complainant. 

Vs. 

The United Commercial Bank Ltd., MuzafTarpur, having its H.O. at 2 India 
Exchange Place, Post Box No. 2435, Caicutta-1 . — Opposite party. 

Present: 

Shri C. B. Mittcr, M.A.M.L ., — Presiding Officer. 

Appearances: 

No appearance for the applicant, 

Shri R. V. Govindan, Law Officer, for the Bank . — Opposite party. 

Dhanbad, the 30th April, 1962. 

State: Bihar. Industry: Banking. 


AWARD 

This application is under Section 33-A, of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 47), has been filed by one Kant Kumar Dwivedi on the allegation that 
although he was appointed as a clerk to fill in a permanent post on 15th February, 
1960, and was shortly thereafter deputed to work as a elerk-cum-Assistant 
Godown Keeper, and although he had all along been perfoiming his duties con- 
scientiously to the satisfaction of his superiors, the opposite party terminated his 
services by their letter dated 19th August, 1960, at a time when he bad already 
completed six months of service und had earned the right to be confirmed as per 
Sastry award. This termination, according to the applicant, violated the provi- 
sions of Section 33, firstly because that an industrial dispute concerning the 
employees in the banking companies was pending before the National Industrial 
Tribunal (Bank Disputes) and secondly because, no notice ol termination was 
given to the petitioner nor was the procedure for such termination as laid down 
in the award was adopted by the Bank. It is further contended that the action 
of the Bank in terminating the service ol the applicant when he had already com- 
pleted six motns four days of service was malajide and that as such this court 
might be pleased to pass necessary orders in the case. 

2. It is contended by the Bank in its reply that us the applicant was appointed 
on a temporary basis the provisions of Section 33. were not attracted at ull. It 
Is next contended that the applicant was not appointed to fill a permanent post 
and that it was wrong to suggest that the Bank in terminating his services was 
actuated by the malajide motive of depriving the workman of his right to con- 
firmation. It is further alleged that the services of the applicant were terminated 
as his work was found not satisfactory and that the reasons lor such termination 
were not disclosed as otherwise the interests of the applicant would have been 
harmed thereby. It Is, finally, contended that that as the applicant was a tempo- 
rary employee, it was neither necessary to give him any notice of termination 
nor was it necessary to serve on him a show cause notice nor to follow the pro- 
cedure laid down in Sastry Award, 



^0 THE GAZ, OF INDIA: MAY 12, 1962/VAisAKHA 22, 19H [Part 11-Sec. 3 (li)j 


3. The contention of the Bank that the provisions of Section 33, are not attract- 
ed in a case oi termination of service oi a tempo,. ary employee must lan as there 
is no such word qualifying the term ‘workman m ihat section, in the case bet- 
ween State Bank of India, Indian Staff Association and State oi India (iab r'-l- 
L.h.J. p. 9 1), the Appellate Tribunal of mdia observed that it was well settled 
that even a temporary workman was entitled to the protection ailorded by Sec- 
tions 33 and 33-A of the Act. 


4. The next contention of the Bank is that as it was a case of termination of 
service simpliciter stiictly in confoinuty with the terms of the appointment, it 
was not necessary lor mem to folio,, the procedure iuid down m Section 33 (2j 
(b) of the Act. Here the Bank stands on good ground. It was well settled that 
the employer would be required to seek the approval of the Tribunal betore 
whom the reference is penamg only in a case where the action taken by them is 
punitive. (Atma Singh Vs. Anil Starch — 1960-I-L.L.J, p. 77). Where, therefore, 
the services are merely terminated without any intent to punish the incumbent, 
the provisions of Section 33, of the Act would not be attracted at ail. It is true 
that the court has been empowered to examine the bonafldes of the employers 
and to satisfy itself that the termination was not a more camouflage resorted to 
by them with a view to avoid the dilatory procedure of charge sheeting the 
employee and enquiring into the charges. But in this case no materials have 
been placed on record by the workman to assist the court in coming to a finding 
of malafide on the part of the Bank, und on the principle that law would always 
presume the absence of what is edious and dishonourable. I am constrained to 
hold that the contention of the bank that it is a case of termination simpliciter 
should stand. 


5, It is of course true that according to the Sastry Award even a temporary 
employee is entitled to have 14 days notice of termination. But in order to found 
a complaint unaer Section 33-A, it is not sufficient merely to conclude that there 
has been a violation of the terms of the Sastry Award. It is essential to deter- 
mine if the provisions of Section 33, have been contravened. According to this 
Section the employer in discharging or dismissing an employee for misconduct is 
required to act in accordance with the standing orders, But when no punitive 
element is discernible in the action taken by the Bank, it would be idle to con- 
sider if the standing orders or for the matter of that the terms of Sastry Award 
have been contravened. 

6. In the result, the complaint is ordered to be dismissed. There will be no 
order as to costs. 


Dhanbad, 

The 30 th April, 1962. 


Sd./- C. B, Mitter, 
Presiding Officer, 

Central Government Labour Court Dhanbad. 

INo. 56(3) /02-LRIV.] 


B. R. SETH, Dy. Secy. 


CORRIGENDUM 
New Delhi, the 3rd May 1962 

S O. 1451— In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour and Employment No. S.O. 6G9, dated the 27th February, 1962, published 
al pages 003 and 604 In Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (11) of th e Gazette df India, 
dated the 3rd March, 1962, 

for “3 Maragowdanahalll”, 
read “3 Naragowdanahalll”. 

[No. F. 13(5) /62.] 
BALWANT SINGH, Under Secy. 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OP INDIA PRESS, 
NttW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1962 



