REGISTERED No. D , 222 


M 


The Gazette mit 


of Endia 


ALANCE 


सत्यमेव जयते 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 49 ) NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1959 /AGRAHAYANA 14 , 1881 


- 


- 


NOTICE 
Gazettes of India Extruordinary were published upto the 27th Novenil 


The undermentioned 


No . and date 


(Huc 
No . 


Lued by 


Subject 


dated 


21st 


Ministry of Commerce and Industry. 


124 No. 111 -ITC (PN )/ 59, 

November . 1959. 


Import of Coaltar dycg , textile chemicals 

etc., against exportg of cotton textilcs, 

yarn and handloom goods. 
Cancellation of O .G . L . No, LIX , published 

as Order No . 13 /59, dated 30th Septem 
ber, 1959 


No . 15 /59, dated 21st 

1959. 


November. 


125 No. 112 -ITC (PN )/59, dated 

November , 1959 . 


23rd 


23rd 


No . 113-ITC (PN )/ 59, dated 

November, 1959 . 


Scheduled Industries borne on the registeri 

of the Development Wing - Igue of 
" repeat " licences for raw materlals for 
selected industries during October, 1959 – 
March , 1960 licensing period , 
Classification of chains of 1 " X " size 
with the roller diameters of 0. 504 ", 0.8087 
and 0.907" whether in cut-to-length sizes 

or in rolls - for ITC purposes. 
Recommendations of the Tariff Commis 

sion regarding charging of interest on the 
advances granted by the Government of 
India to the Indian Iron and Steel Co . 
Ltd . Calcutta , 


dated 


25th 


126 No . PS-45 (112 )/57 , 

November , 1959. 


dated 


26th 


Reducing duties of cristoms on articles etc . 

specified therein , 


127 No. 8 (I)- T . R / 59, 

November, 1959 . 
No. 12( 1)- T .R ./59, 

November , 1959. 


dated 


26th 


dated 


26th 


No. 8 (1)- T .R ./ 59, 

November, 1959. 


Reducing duties of customs on articles etc. 

specified therein . 
Government s acceptance of the recommen 

dation made by the Tariff Commission 
regarding continuance of protection to 
the Hydroquinone Industry. 


dated 


26th 


No. 12( 1). T . R ./59, 

November, 1959 . 


Government s acceptance of the recommen 

dation made by the Tariff Commission 
regarding continuance of protection to 
the Sago Inrlustry. 


dated 


26th 


No. 16 ( 1)- T . R . / 59 , 

November, 1959 . 


Government s acceptance of the recommen 

clation macle by the Tariff Commission 
regarding continuance of protection to 
the Grinding Wheels Industry . 


dated 


27th 


128 No. 21(9 )- T . R ./ 59 , 

November , 1959, 


Government s acceptance of the recommen 
dation made by the Tariff Commission 
regarding continuance of protection to 
the Automobile Leaf Spring Industry 


Caniny of the Cutellus Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on Indent to the Manager of Publications, 
Wool Line Delhi. Indenta Ahould be submitted so as to reach , the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 

sr Gazeltes. 


( 255 ) 


256 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 5 , 1959/ AGRAHAYANA 14 , 1881 


[PART I - Seo . 1 


CONTENTS 
PAGES 

PABT 11 – ŞATION 4 . - Statutory Rules and 

Orders notific ) by the Ministry of Defence 


PAGES 


zos 


255 


Part III - SECTION 1. Notifications fogued by 

the Auditor General, Union Public Servico 
Commission , Railway Administration , High 
Courts , and the Attached and Subordinate 
Office of the Government of India 
( Published af Simla ) . . 


I551 


735 


PART III- SEOTION 2. - Notifications and Notices 

issued by thc Patent Onco , Calcutta 
(Published at Stala ) 


319 


137 


PART IIJ - SECTION 9 . - Notifications issued 

by or under the authority of Chief 
Commlwionen (Published at Simla ) 


241 


PART I - SECTION 1 . - Notifications relating to Non 

Statutory Rulas, Regulations and Order# 
and Resolutions inued by the Ministries 
of the Goveromçot of India (other 
than the Ministry of Defcuco ) and 
by the Supreme Court . 

. . 
PART I - SEOTION 4 . - Notifications regarding 

Appointment , Promotion , Lcave , etc . 
of Government Officer Ipued by the 
Ministries of the Government of India 
(othor than the Ministry of Defonce ) 

and by the Supreme Court . . 
PART 1 - SROTION 9 .- - Notifications relating 

to Non - Statutory Rulcs , Regulations , 
Order and Resolutions , issued by the 
Ministry of Defenco 

. . . 
PART I - SECTION 4 . - Notifications regarding 

Appointments , Promotions , Leave , otc . 
of Officers , luued by the Ministry of 

Defence . . . . . . 
PART II - XOTION I. - Acto , Ordinances and 

Rogulation . . . . . . . 
PAAT IL SECTION 9.-- BÜls and Reports of Scdrce 

Committco on Bills . . . 
PART II — SEOTION $ .- Sun- SECTION (1) General 

Statutory Rules (including orders, byo- law 
etcy of a general charactor ) inued by tho 
Ministries of the Govorament of ladin (otho 
than the Ministry of Defence ) and by 
Cont ] Authoritia ( other than the Adtonio 

trations of Unioo Torritorie ) 
PAIT IL - SBOTION 9 . - 80B - SXOTION (ü ). - Statutory 

Order and notifications issued by the 
Ministries of the Government of India 
(othor than tho Ministry of Defence ) and 
by Ocotral Authorities ( other than tho 
Administration of Union Territorie ) . 


299 


NO 


PANI III - SBOTION 4 - Miscellancous Notl 

fications including notifications, orders , 
advertisements and qotices issued by 

Statutory Bodies ( Published at Simla) . . 
PART IV - Advertisements and Noticos by Privato 

Individuals and Private bodies ( Published 
of Simla ) 


531 


241 


1627 


SUPPLEMENT No. 454 
Roported attacks and deaths from cholera , small 

Por, plague and typhus in districts in India 
durog week ending the 7th November 

1959 . . . 
Births and deaths fronu principal discesa lo 

Rowan witu a population of 30 , 000 mod 
over in India during wook opding 
7th November , 1959 . 


565 


3357 


567 


PART 1--Section 1 
Notifications relating to Non -Statutory Rules, Regulations and Orders and Resolutions issued 
by the Ministries of the Government of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by 

the Supreme Court 


PRESIDENT S SECRETARIAT 


New Delhi, the 50th November 1959 
No. 62 -Pres. /89. - Thc President is pleased to award the 
Police Medal for gallantry to the undermentioned officer of 
the Uttar Pradesh Police: 


Name of the officer and rank 


Shri Ram Chander Singh , Constable No. 7961 , VI Sattallon , 
P . A . C ., Roorkçe, Uttar Pradesh 


Statement of services for which the decoration has been 

awarded . 


On the 12th February 1937, at about mid -day , the Superin 
tendent of Police , Bulandsliahr, received information that 
dacoit Pyare Singh , the Mithless and trusted lieutenant of 
notorious dacoit Jahan Singh , and some of his assoriater would 
assemblc in a hut near village Nagaria , P . C . Jewar , to finalize 
a plan to commit a dacoity that night . 

A police informer was sent in advance to join the gang in 
order to keep the dacoits engaged in conversation holding out 
hopes that a fcw more of his aganciates would be joining them . 
A mecond informer followed with instructions to join the gang 
with three others at a convcnicnt distance from the hut. Cong 
table Ram Chander Singh volunteered to accompany this party 
while the main borly of the police force took un positions on 
thrcc sides of the hut and about two furlongs from it . 

Constable Ram Chander Singh wearing plain clothes and 
carrying his loaded rilc, went to thc hut with the informer s 
party and was introcluced to Pyare Singh and the other dacolto 
as a deserter from the army. They then eet about preparing 
a plan to commit dacoity in village Tahangirpur gone thrce 
miles away For some reason however Pyarc gh new sug. 
plcious of Constable Ram Chander Singh and when the latter 
hesitated on demand to show him his iiſc, Pyarc Singh shout 
Ing that the Contable ipocared to he an informer , whippeil 
out his pistol and aimed it at Constable Ram Chander Singh 
who jerkcd the dacoit s arm aside so deflecting the shot which 
narrowly misseri himn Thraccond informar thon ( red at Pyare 
Singh who fell down Aslır was about to risc again Constable 
Ram Chander Singh shot hilin dead . The main police force 
hearing the shots quickly came up and captured those other 
dacoits before they could get away . 


The liquidation of notorious dacoit Pyarę Singh and appre 
hension of three members of his gang was a severe blow to 
Jahan Singh and his associates . 

In this cncounter Constable Ram Chander Singh showed 
prescnce of mind , grcat courage and devotion to duty of a high 
Order . 

2 This award is made for gallantry under rulc 4 (1) of the 
Rules governing the award of the Police Medal and conse 
qucntly carries with it the special allowance adıniggible to 
officers of and below the rank of Inspector of Police as pro 
vided in Rule 6 . 

No. 63- Pres /59 . - The President is pleased to award the 
Police Medal for gallantry to the undermentioned officer of the 
Madhya Pradesh Police : 

Name of the officer and ranh 
Shui Ram Narain Lahri, Sub Inspector of Polics , Shivpuri 
District, Madhya Pradesh 
Statement of Services for which the Drroration has been 

au arded 
A Forest Contractor who had informed the Police that 
fiotorious dacoit Pritam Gujar had moved from Morena to 
Shivpuri district way wavlaid by the dacoit who demanded 
from him a mum of Rs. 4 ,000 . 

Lcarning that Pritam Gujar would come for the money on 
the 4th April 1969, Sub Inspector Ram Narain Lahri with a 
small posse of g Sub Inyecctors and Constables derased in 
mufti proceeded to the rendezovous with the Forest Contrac 
tor s servants in a truck When the truck stopped at the 
appointed place dacoft Pritam Gujar sent one of his men to 
rcccíve the money The messenger was told to inform the 
dacoit that JS the Contractor had no confidence in his scr 
vants hc hart sent his own minim to deliver the money per 
suinally to him and that the dacoit should cither come to the 
truck to take the money himself or permit thic munim to 
deliver it to him . The messenger returned with Pritam 
Gujar , permission for the munir to hind the noncy over on 
condition that other scrvant of the Contractor in whom he 
liarl considence shoulil accompany thc munim 

Sub Inspector Lithi, deyerl 29 the munul , and the two 
servants of the Contractor then went towards thc dacoit. When 
a certain distance from him they were challenged by the 
dacoit who kept his gun levelled at them and askerl them to 
advance and put the money on a rock and then leave at once . 


PART I- Sec. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 6, 1959/ AGRAHAYANA 14 , 1881 


2 $ 7 


notilicd that the following days will be obscrved as Court 
holidays during the year 1960 . 


Nime or holidays 


Month and Dale Day of the 

week 


No. 

of 
days. 


Republic Day 
Shivratri . 
Holi . . 


The dacoil s attitude W .19 most menacing but despite the 

vc risk Sub - inspecioi Lalı telt that the opportunity was 
100 good lo lost all that some way of apprehchung lhe dalost 
might be found it he could parlcy with him . lle accordingly 
inturincd the dacoit that his inayler had sent only Rs. 400 
and beggcd lot Icm196101 of the balance of Rs. 1500 . This 
bulundled the dicoit who thcatened to kill him and the 
servants , but on the intcivention of one of them the dacoit 
permatted uic party lo ut down to explain the position to 
111m ; all the waile hecping his guri pointed at Sub - inspector 
Lubri. Dung thc ensung convciadLion one of the Contractui s 
servants sougut permission to light a bidi and also oflered one 
to the dacoit. As soon as the dacoit had accepted it had 
then his hand oil the ligger of ins gun tu suloke the budi 
Sub -Inspector Lalırı leapl on him . A fiercc shuggle Look 
place . The Sub - Inspector fired a sliot from his revolver but 
missed the lacoit. Meanwhile , the ternainder of thc police 
torce rushed to the spot and tied u light pistol to illuminate 
thic area . The dacolc managed to trcc hiniselt liom the grip 
of thic Sub - Inspector and tired a shot at lum , but fortunately 
missed . Sub -Inspector Lahui thieu fued again and killed the 
dacoit, 

Throughout thus encounter Sub Inspector Shri Ram Narain 
Lahri shuwed gallantry, picsence of mind and devotion to duty 
of a high order . 

2 . This award is made for gallantry under Rule 4 (i) of the 
Rules governing the award of die Police Medal and conse 
quently ( 421103 with it the fpecial allowancc admissible to 
officers of and below the lank of Inspector of Police as provid . 
ed in Rule 5 . 


Id -ul-Fitr . 
Ram Naumi 
Bais. khi . 
Good Friday 
Budha Purnima 
Il- uz - Zulia . 
Muharram . 
Janam Ashtami 
Independence Day 
Miladun -Nabi 
Dusschra . 


26th January 

25th February 
. 12th & 131h 

March 
. 2917 March 

5th April 
. 13th April 

15th April 

IICh May 
. 5th Junc 

Sth July 
. 14th August 

15th August 
- 4th September 
. 28th , 29th & 

30th September 


Tuesday 
Thursday 
Saturday & 

Sunday 
Tucsday 
Tuesday 
Wednesday 
Friday 
Wednesday 
Sunday 
Tucsday 
Sunday 
Monday 
Sunday 
Wednesday , 

Thursday , & 

Friday 
Sunday 


A . V . PAI, Secy. 


2nd October 


Mahalama Gandhii s 

Birchday 
Diwali . . . 


& 


2 


2012 & 2180 
October 
311 November 


Thursday 

Friday 
Thursday 


Guru Nanak s 

Birthday 
Christinas Holidays . 


12 


19th to 30th 
December (both 
days inclusive ) 


By order of the Court 
ARINDAM DUTT , 

Registrar. 


- - - - - - 
MINISTRY OF COMMUNITY DEVLLOPMENT AND 

COOPERATION 
(Department of Community Development) 

RESOLUTION 
New Delhi, the 2017 November 1959 
No. 21 / 128 / 89- TL - The first ineering of the Advisory 
Board for the Central Institute of Study & Rescarch in Com 
munity Development, Mussooric held on 15th & 16th October , 
1959 recommended that wo Sub -Committees of the Advisory 
Board should be constituccu , dealing wid Research and Orien 
tation Training respectivcly . The Ministry have accepted the 
recommendation and liave decided to set up widi immediate 
effect Lwo Sub - Committccs consisting of noi otlıcals and off 
cials to advise the Central Institute of Study & Research in 
Community Development on research and orientation training 
respectively . 

The composition of the two Sub -Committccs will be as 
follows: 
I. Research Sub -Committee : 

1. Shri S. N . Mozumdar, I.C .S . ( Rctd .)-- Chairman . 
2. Shri II, C . Mathur, M . P . 
8. Dr. B . N . Ganguly. 
4 . Professor D . Ghosh . 

5 . Dr. M . N . Srinivas. 
II, Orientution Training Sub - Committee : 

1 . Shri N . R . Malkani, M . P . - Chairman . 
2. Profcssor V . K . N . Manon . 
8. Dr. S . C . Dube. 
4 , Shri Ashfaque Hussain , 
5 . Shrl B . Mukherji, I.C .S . 
6 . Shri K . Balachandran , I.C .S . 


MINISTRY OF STEEL, MINES & FUEL 
(Department of Iron and Steel) 

ORDER 
Now Delhi, the 1st December 1959 
No. SC (A )- 24 (24 ) / 59. - In pursuance of Resolution No . SC ( A ) 
1 ( 193 ) / 59, dated thc 5th Novcuber, 1959 , thc Govern 
ment of India hereby directs that the following amend 
mcats shall be made to the Order regarding appointment of 
the members to the Iron and Sicel Advisory Council , No . 
SC ( A )-4 (493 )/ 59, dated the 10th November, 1959 , numcly : 
(i) for the existing entry No. (28 ), 
read “ 28 . Rear Admiral I . B . Bosc, Chief Surveyor 

with the Government of India , Directorate 
General of Shipping , Commerce House , Bal 

lored Estate, Boubay-1." 
( ii ) for the cxisting entry No. ( 18 ), 
read “ Shri P . L . Mastcr, President, Steel Importers 

Association of India , India Exchange, India 
Exchange Place , Calcutta - 1 ." 

J. S. BAIJAL, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY 


RESOLUTION 


ORDER 
Ordered that a copy of the Resolution be communicated 10 

(a ) All Members of the Sub - Committees, 
(b ) Principal, Central Institutc of Study & Research in 

Community Development, Mussoorie , 
(c) Department of Parliamentary Affairs, 

(d ) All Ministries ctc. of thc Government of India. 
Ordered also that thc Rcgolution be published in the Gazette 
of India for general information . 


PAPER PRICES 


K . BALACILANDRAN , Jt . Sccy. 


Nom Delhi, the 27th November 1959 
No. CH . ( 1)- 41 (79 ) / 89 , --With the introduction of a restric 
tive import policy Government received complaints about the 
unduly high prices charged by wholesale merchants and retall 
dealers of puper , In order, thercforc to safeguard the interests 
of the consumers , the Government of India , after discussions 
with the paper manufacturers and thcir Associations, decided 
to Icfer the qucstion of fair prices of paper to the Tariff 
Cominission . On 1st September , 1958 the Tariff Commission 
Was requested : 
(a ) to enquire into the fair ex -works prices and fair sell 

ing prices (ex - mill ay also at various destinations) for 
dillcrent varleties of paper manufactured indigenously ; 


SUPREME COURT OF INDIA 


New Delhi, the 27th November 1959 
No . F. 22 / 60-SCA (G ). - In pursuance of Rule 5 of Order II 
of the Supreine Court Rules, 1950 (as amendel) it is hereby 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 5 , 1959/AGRAHAYANA 14 , 1881 


(PART 1 - Sto. 1 


238 


(b ) to make recommendations regarding fair prices which 

should be charged by wholcsalers and retaileis of 
paper so as to ensuic that customers get a fair deal; 
and 


(c ) to examine the differentials that were determined by 

the Tariff Board in 1948 in the light of the present 

circumstances . 
Paper, Pulp boards and the following special varicties of paper 
were specifically included in the scope of the inquiry , 

(i) Art paper and art boards, 
(li) Chromo paper and chromo boards, 
( iil) Poster paper, 

(iv ) Blue match paper. 
The following varieties of paper and boards were , however , 
excluded as there had been no complaints about their prices: 

(i) Cigarette paper and other tissue papers , 
(ii) Newsprint, 
( iii) Straw boards, 
( iv ) Corrugated boards , 

(v) Mill boards. 
2 . The Commission , on conclusion of its enquiry , has sub 
mitted its report. The main recommendations of the Com 
toission are as follows: 
(1 ) The fair ex -works prices of papers and boards which 

do not include selling expensca , freight or selling 
comunission and which are applicable in accordance 
with existing practice to Government purchascs and 
the fair selling prices of papers and paper boards 
inclusive of freight to all destinations in the country 
and selling commission , but exclusive of excise duty , 
State Government or local levies should be fixed as 
below : 


These prices will be applicable to all sales effected by 
whiolesalers, distributory in lots of 500 lby, and above . 
No rcsale commission may be charged by wholesalers / 
(listributors to retailers (dealers) and paper merchants 
or consumers. A commission of 5 per cent of the fair 
selling prices may be charged by retailers (dealers) 
and paper merchants for sale to consumers in 1cam lots 
and up to 500 lbs. This Commission should be cal 
culated on tait selling prices not including excise duty, 

State Government of local levies . 
(9 ) Extra charges may be added to fair selling prices for 

light weight, super-calendering , colouring and Tag 

content as below : 
(i) Light weight. 
( a )(i) Printing and writing paper 50 
gm and above , . 

Normal price 
( 21 ) Below 50 gm . . . 6 P per lb . 
(6 ) Poster and krufi puper . 

50 gm and above . . . Normal price 
40 10 50 gm . . · · 3 nP per lb . 

Below 40 gr . . . . . 5 nP per lb . 
( ii ) Super calendering . . . 2 nP per lb . 
( iii ) Colouring ( applicable only to decp 

colouring and not lined and toned 
paper ) 

. . 3 np per 1b . 
( iv ) Ray coulent. 

The basc price of special varieties of paper like Banks and 
Bondy, ledger paper , typewriting and manifold / aimmail in which 
nag wontent is generally prevalent has been worked out after 
including in the cost of finished product the cost of rags up 
to 10 % . Extra allowance for additional rag content is recom 
mended as under : 
(a ) 11 to 25 % . . . . . nP per lb . 
(6 ) 26 to 50 % 

. . . 10 DP per lb . 
( c) above 55 % . . . . . By negotiation bet 

ween the pur 
chaser and the 

manufacturers . 
A rebate of 2 nP per lb . has been recommended for supply in 
recls . 

(8 ) The demand for paper and paper board excluding news 
print and strawboard during 1960 , 1961, 1962 and 1969 is Ulko 
ly to be of the order of 350,000 tons 400,000 tona, 460,000 
tons and 520 ,000 tons respectively . Steps should be taken 
immediately to create capacity to meet this demand . 

(4 ) In order to ensure that production of different varieties 
of paper and paperboards corresponds to the actual demand 
palīcrii curly steps should be taken by Government to have a 
technical assessment of the capacity of cach unit in terms of 
the several types of paper and paper board and production 
should be planned as follows: -- 
Printing and Writing paper . . . 67 per cent. 
Packing & Wrapping paper . . . 14 per cent. 
Paper board . . . . . . 16 per cent. 
Special types of paper . . . 3 per cent. 

(5 ) Paper manufacturers should be required to market the 
several types of dier manufacture within the price structure 
enunciated above on the basis of thc broad delinitions laid 
down , 


Type of Paper 


Fair selling price 

nP per 10 . 


Pair 
ex -Works 

price 
P per lb . 
(applicable 

to 
Govern 

ment 
purche 
sers ) 


1. White printing paper 
2 . Unbleached printing 
3 . Offsct/cartridge . 
4 . Antique laid /wovc 
5 . Cream fald /wove 
6 . Imitation Art , 


570 
- 54 .0 
. 57 0 
, 570 
. 60 . 0 
. 57 . 0 


68 . 0 
64 .0 
68 . 0 
68 . 0 
780 
68 . 0 Inclusive of 

super calender 

ing charges. 
102 . 0 
90 . 0 


7 . Art Paper . . . 89 . 0 
8 . Chromo papar , . 77 0 
9 . Ledger paper : 
(a ) Account Book Paper , 57 . 0 


(b ) Azure laid 


. 


. 


60 . 0 


of 


10 . Banks and Bonds 
II . Typewriting 

. 
12 . Manifold air mail 


65 .0 
. 69 0 
. 86 . 0 


13 . Duplicating 


. 


. 57 . 0 


68. 0 Inclusive of 

super calender 

ing charges . 
71 . 0 Inclusive 

charges for 

colouring 
77. 0 
80 - 0 Inclusive of 
99 . 0 charges for 

light weight 
and guillone 

cutting 
68 . 0 Inclusive of 

charpes for 
guillotine cut 

ling. 
68 - 0 
62 - 0 
61 . 0 ( Inclusive of 
68 . 0 Scharges for 
65 . 0 colouring . 
74 . 0 ) 
68 . 0 
68 . 0 
67 . 0 Inclusive of 

charges for 

colouring. 
960 
83 . 0 


57 0 
52 . 0 
SI O 
57 . 0 


14 . Poster Paper 
15 . Kraft 

. . . 
16 . Wrapper . . 
17. Cover Paper 

. . 
18 . Match Paper 
19 . Biotting Paper 
20 . Pulp Board . 
21. Duplex Board . . 
22 . Ticket Board and Triplex 

Board . 


(6 ) If a case is made out, to the satisfaction of Government, 
that the manufacture and sale of a new type not included in 
the price structure should be approved for sale at a particular 
price to satisfy the needs of special classes of consumers, pes 
mission may be granted after necessary investigation , 

(7) For the effective administration of price control, a com 
plete and exhaustive list of all types of speciality papers which 
are manufactured in the country and are excluded from price 
control should be published . Any additions to or deletions 
from the list should have the explicit sanction of Government. 

(8 ) The Industry should continue the present practice of 
advertising periodically or cvcry quarter fair selling prices of 
papers and paper boards in the important English newspapers 
and principal language papers in the country . 

(9 ) Ag manufacturers have been provided with a freight 
allowance and an element for selling expenses at commensu 
rate levels , they should endeavour to ensure that their pro 
ducts reach consumers at all points in the country where they 
are in demand in adequate quantities and in an evenly spread 
manner, Distributors / wholesalers should be appointed at all 
the impurtant centres on the basis of population and other 
requirements. 


57 . 0 
57 . 0 
56 .0 


23. Art Board , 
24 . Chromo Board 


, 
, 


. 83.0 

720 


PART I- Sec. 11 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 6 , 1959/ AGRAHAYANA 14 , 1881 


239 


N®w Dell12 - 2 , 27th November 1959 
No. 1 , 9- 10 / 18 -11 ,1.- In pursuance ol Ministıy of Education 
Resolution to . 1 . 9 - 10 , 38- 1 , dated the 19th May , 1959 , the 
tullowing persons have been appuiſitou 48 Chauman and 
Uutels on the handiya Hudi shikshana Mandal: 
1 , Chanan . 

Shri M . Salyanarayana, M .I . 


Meinbers 


( 10 ) Manufacturers pliould create a machinery to cnforce 
percus 11ance by the distributors / wholcsales of wer duties and 
10 wibilities to the community . They should have a trained 
stad ul li dvclling salesmen und inspectors who will make en 
qulrics if the Icedilcis ( tc. in the second tier of the distribu 
Lions systein , do leta 1Ioui anti -sucial dcuvilicy in regard to 
prices and dist) ibution . 

(11) Tlie present trade practice of permitting distributors / 
wholesalers 10 add commission upto it per cent on the lurr 
selling prices foi rcsale of paper LO retailers (dealcıs) and 
Papei weichants should be discontinued 

( 12 ) State Directory of Industries should schder assistance to 
small scale stationery manufacturers who deal in cxercise books 
for thc student community to procure their requircments of 
printing and writing paper . 

(13) Government inży examine the leasibility of making 
anangcincnts whcreby paper mills would be able to obtain 
wasle paper in bulk quantities direct from Government Dcpat 
racht, both Central and State, instead of through intermediate 
dealers. 

(14 ) Thc possibility of pcrmitting long lem Icases of forests 
to paper, muils with a view to Iusting both planned develop 
ment and scientific exploitation may be considered , 

(15 ) Encouragement should be given to the establishment of 
pulp manufacturing units independently of paper mills, 

(16 ) Thc paper industry should take immcdiatc steps to 
amalgamate wie two associations of manufacturers which are 
now in existence . 

8 . The Government have accepted recommendations (1) and 
( 2 ) regarding prices and the paper mills have becn called upon 
Lo issue a revised price list accordingly with effect from the 
1st January 1960. 

Recommendauon ( 14 ) is already under their examination , 
Govertunent will take necessary steps to implement recom 
menda Juris (3), (4), (5 ), (6 ), (7 ), (12) and (13). 

The attention of State Governincots is invited to recom 
mendation ( 12 ) and they will be requested to take appropriate 
action . 

The attention of the industry is specifically invited to recom 
mendations (6), (8 ), (9 ), (10 ), (11) and (16 ). 

ORDER 


Ordered that a copy of the Resolution be communicated to 
All concerned . 

Ordered also that the Resolution be published in the Gazette 
of India for general information , 

ASHFAQUE HUSAIN , Jt. Sccy. 


%. Representatives of the Government of India. 
(1) Deputy Serclary, mchange of Hindi Division Ministry 

of Luucation 
(11) Deputy linancial Adyiscr, attached to the Ministry 

of cduction , 
9 . Me s normalid uy the Ministry of Education in 
claung www members of Lux Juohu and one of Rajya Sabhu . 
(1) 11 Awadhi Nandan Shana, C / o Balika Vidyapceth , 
Lakudd , Du Mongłyr, ( 

Bar). 
(11) Prol. N . Nagappa , M . A . Head of the Hindi Depart 

Wilcilt , Mandalas Luik be , Mysure . 
(111) Di. Vinay Mohan Sharma, I rincipal, Government 

Colicge, Kaigarh (Madhya Pradesh ).) 
(10 ) Prot, I. N . Madan , Head of the Hindi Department, 

TGIVISILY ut tun1 ). .), uliandigarh . 
(v ) Prof. A . Chandrahasan , Prolessor of Oriental, Liogu . 

g s, Maliaraj4s College, Linakulam , 
( vi) UI, H . P . Guplil , Head of the Post Graduate Depart 

Inent ol Hinui, University of Jammu and Kashmir , 

Simnagar . 
(VII) Di , Bishwanath Prasad , Director , K .M . Institute of 

Judi Studies and linguistics, Agra University , Agra . 
( via ) Dr. Nagendra Nagaich , Head of the Hindi Depart 

ment, Deihi University, Delhi. 
(ix ) Shri S. S. Raju Naidu, Head of the Hindi Depart 

ment, University of Mudias, Madras. 
(x ) Shri M . L . Dwivedi, M .P ., (Lok Sabha). 
(XI) Slui N . Keshava , M .P ., (Lok Sabha). 

(x11) Shri Banarasi Das Chaturvedi, M .P., (Rajya Sabha). 
1 . Rrpresentatives of the voluniry Hindi organisations. 
(1) Shri K . Atchutha Reddi, president, Hindi Prachar 

Sabba, Hyderabad . 
(ii) Mahamahopadhyaya D . V . l otdar President, Maha 

faslitra Rashtra Bhasha , Prachar Samiti, Poona . 
( iii) Shri Maganbhai Desai, Vice Chancellor, Gujrat Uni 

vcrsity , Ahmedabad . 
( iv ) Slıri Sbamboo Nath Parinov, Secretary, Managing 

Committcc , Mahila Mahavidyalaya , Barbarshah , Sri 

nagar . 
(v ) Shri N . Sundara Iyer, Kcrala Hindi Prachar Sabha , 

Ernakulam , 
( vi) Shri S . R . Shastıi, Dakshin Bharat Hindi Prachar , 

Sabha , (Tamilnad ) Trichi. 
(vii) Shri Sidh Nath Pant, Honorary Chirman , Sahitya 

Shukilan Saniti, Karnatak Hindi, Prachar Sabha , 

Dharwar. 
(viii ) Shri Lalita Madhab Sharma, Vice- President, Mani 

pur Hindi Parishad , Imphal, 
(ix ) Shri R . K , Bose , Secretary, Utkal Prantiya Rashtra 

Bhasha Piacliar Sabha , Cuttack . 
(x ) Shri D . D . Menon , Gencral Secretary, Punjab Prantiya 

IIudi Salilya Sammelani, Ambala Cantt. 
( xi) Shri Umesh Lal Singh , Secretary, Tripura State 

Rashtra Bhasha Prachar Samiti, Agartala . 
( xii) Shri Rebti Ranjan Sinha , Sccrctary , West Bengal 

Rashtra Bhasha Prachar Samiti, Calcutta . 
( xiii ) Shri Padam Singh Sharma, " Kamlesh " , Head of the 

Hindi Deparunent, Agra College, Agra , 
(xiv ) Shri Rameshwar Dayal Dube , Examination Sccretary , 

Rashtra Bhasha Prachar Samiti Wardha, 
(XV ) Shri Kamal Nayan Bajaj, M .P ., Treasurer , Akhli 

Bhartiya Hindi Parishad Agra , 
(xvi) Shri Balachandra Apte, Principal, Hindi Pracharak 
Vidyalaya , 2 -4- 1098 , Kachiguda , Hyderabad, 

A . K . JAIN , Under Secy. 


(Office of the Chicf Controller of Imports & Exports) 

ORDER 
New Delhi, the 25th November 1959 


No. 284 / I (2 ) /HQ / 59 / 2912 . - Whereas Ms. The Aincrican Oil 
and Trading Co ., Revdi Bazar , Ahmedabad - 2 have denied the 
reccipt of Licence No . E988342 /57 / EI / CCI/ HQ , dated 14th 
July 1959 , valued at Rs. 24 ,884 / - for the import of Mineral 
Oils N . O . S. 29 mentioned in para, 8 (B ) ( A ) of Appendix XVUI 
of the Policy Book for the relevant period , from the General 
Arca cxccpt Union of South Africa , granted by the Chicf 
Controller of Imports and Exporte, New Delhi to the said 
M / s . The Ancrican Oil and Trading Co ., Reydi Bazar, 
Alimedabad - 

2 2nd whereas any Bank or any other person 
have not comc forward furnishing sulhcient cause , against 
Notice No . 254 / 1 ( 2) /HQ / 59 / 537 , dated the 8th October , 1999 , 
proposing to cancel the above -mentioned licence , the Govern 
ment of India , in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry , in 
exercise of the powery conferred by clause 9 of the Imports 
( Control) Oider 1955 , hereby cancel the said licence No . 
E988942 / 57 / EI / C .C . I / HQ darca l1th July 59 , issucd to the 
said M / s. The American Oll and Trading Co ., Reydi Bazar, 
Ahmedabad -2 . 

K . T. SATARAWALA, 
Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 


New Delhi, the 25th November 1959 
No, F .G - 18 / 59 A . 10 . - In partial modification of the Ministry 
of Fducation Resolution No. F .6 - 13 / 59 - A . 10 , dated the 19th 
August, 1959 , Shri K , R . Ramachandran , 1. A . S ., Deputy Secre 
tary, Ministry of Education , has been appointed the Ministry s 
representative Member of the Committee on the proposed 
Archival Legislation , with effect from the 23rd November, 
1959 , in place of Shri Nizamuddin Ahmed , I. A .S . 


MINISTRY OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH AND CULTURAL 

AFFAIRS 
Noru Delhi, the 25th November 1959 
No . F . 12 - 18 / 59C2. - In pursuance of the Ministry of Edlu 
cation Resolution No . 24 -4 / 53 .H3 dated the 27th / B0th July . 
1953 icad with the Ministry of Scientific Research and Cul 
tural Alains, Notification No. F , 12 - 10 / 58.C2 dated 1st August 


R . L . ANAND , Under Secy . 


u 


li y . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


260 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 8 , 1959 / AGRAHÁYANA 14, 1881 [ PART 1 - Sto. 1 
- -- - - - - -- - - - - - = 
= - 

= 
= 

= - - - 

- = - - = - = - = - = = 

- - - 

- - - - - - 
1998 , the GOVCInvient of India ale pleased to reconstitutc the 

3 . So examine the clifliculties experienced and to suggest 
count of the National Library , Calcutta . as follows for a 

modifications and improvements in the existing facili 

Lice 
period of three years with eltecl fiom the date of issue of the 
ulotilication : 

4 . To examine Lie advisability of concentrating post- gradu 

ale courses in seleciul institutions for better progress . 
Chairman 

5 . to consider the manner of achieving close coordina 
d. Joint Educational Adviser (C ) Ministry of Scientific 

tion of post- graduale training and research with the 
Kescarul anu Cullural Allah. 

major developmental and engincerng scheines in the 
Two Meinbers Nominated by the Government of West Bengal 

country . 
2 . Sım A . K . Chuuda. 

6 . To report on all other aspects of improvement and 

development of post - graduate courses . 
3 . Slut Bliupau Mohuni Sen . 
One Member Numinated by the University of Calcutta 

ORDER 
4 . To be notified later on . 

Ordered that a copy of the Resolution be communicated to : 
Une vienver Noiuied by the Centrul Universities by 

(1) The Secrelary, University Grants Commission , New 
Kotalon 

Delhi. 
5 . Dr. S . Das Gupta , Librarian , University of Delhi, Delhi. 

(11) The Secrcturies to all State Governments, Technical 

Education Departments, 
$ 2x Members Nominated by the Government of India 

(11) Ilic Registidis of all Universitics in India . 
6. Stiri Ram Goswami, Librarian , State Central Library, 
Shillong ( Assam ). 

(iv ) The kcgistrar, ludian Institute of Science , Bangalore. 
7 . Shu S . C . Deb , Honorary Seçictary, Public Library, 

(v) I he Registrar , Indian Institute of Technology , Kharag 
Allahabad (U .P .). 

pur. 
8 . Shri N . D . Sundalavadivelu , Director of Public Libraries , 

( v1) The Registar, Indian Institute of Technology , 

Bumbay . 
Madras. 
9 . Shri P . N . Pushp , Assistant Director, Research , Srinagar 

( 11) the Registrar, Indian Institute of Technology , 

Madras . 
(J & K ). 
10 . Prot, M . Mujccb , Vice Chancellor, Jamia Millia Islamia , 
New Debi. 

Ordered also that thic Resolution be published in thc Gazelte 

of India for general information , 
11 . To be notilia later on . 

G , K , LIIANDIRAMANI, JL. Secy . 
V. P . AGNIHOTRI, Under Secy . 

- - - - - -- - - - -- - 

MINISTRY OL RAILWAYS 
RESOLUTION 
New Delhi, the 28th November 1959 

(Railway Doard ) 
No. 44 / 59 . T .5 . - On the recommendations of the All Inilla 

New Delhi, the 27th November 1959 
Council for fechnical Education , Post-Graduate Courses in 

No . E58 -Col /RBI. - 1 le Government of India have act up a 
Engincering and Iechnology have beeu started in a number 

Comitice lo recommend niçasures to be taken to standardise 
ot institutions in the country and facilities have also been 

Lie curricula and the standard of training in Icchnical Train 
provided for advanced work and research . The effectiveness 

ing Schools on Railways . 
of the provigion already juade and the extent of further desir 
able expansion in this field has been engaging the attention of 

The Committee consists of: 
the Post -Graduale Development Committce of the All India 
Council for Technical Education and the Working Group on 

Chairman 
Technical Education for the Thud- Five Year Plan , It has 

1. Sbri B . B . Varma, Retired General Manager. 
been proposed by the Council that a comprehensive enquiry 
should be made into the matter with a view to formulating 

Member 
plan which will yicid the most fruitful rexults in this im 

2. Shri A . K . Basu , Retired General Manager. 
portant field of activity , 

Secretary 
2 . In pursuance of the above recommendation , the Govern . 
ment of India have appointed a Committee with the Terms of 

3 . Shri T . C , Pasricha, oficiating personnel Officer , Eastern 
Reference ae given below : 

Railway. 
Personnel of the Committee: 

The tantos of reference of the Committee are as follows: 

(i) To conduct a Survey of the facilities provided and of 
Chairman 

the courses and syllabi of training imparted to the various 
1 . Prof. M . S . Thacker, Secretary to the Government of Clası III and IV categoria of staff in the professional / technical 

India Ministry of Scientific Research and Cultural Training Schools on the Indian Railways with a view to 
Affairs . 

sceing wlicther the existing standards for 
Members 

(a ) initial 
2 . Dr. A . N . Khosla , Vice Chancellor, Roorkce University. 

(b ) refresher , and 
8 . Dr. D . S . Kothari, Prof. of Physics , Delhi University 

(C ) promotion 
and Scientific Adylser to the Minister of Defence . 

courses meet in full the needs of the services and recommend 
4 . Dr. K . S . Krishnan , Director, National Physical Labora what , if any, changes are necessary. 
tory , New Delhi, 

( ii ) To recommend standard syllabi for thcoretical training, 
5 . Dr. H . L . Roy , Emeritus Professor, College of Engineer 

and practical training where necessary, for these categories of 
ing and Technology , Jadavpur University . 

staff , so that the standard of training on the Railways way 
6. Prof, B . Sengupla , Director, Inclan Institute of Techno 

be uniform and personnel are adequately trained . 
logy , Madras. 

(ii) To examine the necd for the preparation of text books 
7. Dr. P . R Ramakrishnan , M .P ., Principal, Colmbatore 

on Railway subjects and the manucr in which this can best be 
Institute of Technology , Coimbatore . 
8 . Dr. S. Bhagavanthain , Director, Indian Institute of 

2 . The Committee will cndeavour to submit its Report 
Science , Bangalore . 

within a period of 6 months. 
9 . Shri G . K . Chandiramani, Joint Educational Adviser to 

R . E . de SA , Secy . 
the Government of India , Ministry of Scientific Re 
search and Cultural Affairs, New Delhi. 
Member-Secretary 

MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS 
10. Dr. P . K , Kcikar, Deputy Director , Indian Institute of 
Technology , Bombay . 

(Department of Transport) 
Terms of Reference: 

( Transport Wing) 
1 . To visit the various centres of Post - graduate studies / 

New Delhi, the 19th November 1959 
rdearch . 

No. 6 -MT(88) / 58 . - In pursuance of paragraph of the 
2 . To evaluate the progress so far made in the develop schemic for the administration of the Merchant Seamen s 

merit of the poll-graduate courses / research in Amenities Fund , published with the notification of thc late 
Engineering and Technology . 

Ministry of Commerce , No. 90-MII (7 ) / 49 , dated the 27th 


achicved . 


Part I - SEG. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 5 , 1969 / AGRAHAYANA 14 , 1881 


261 


- 


August 1949 and in partial modification of the notifications 
of the Ministey of Transport and Communications (Depart 
mcnt of Transport) No. 6 - 

MT( 38 )/ 58 . dated thc 22nd Sept. 
cruber 1958 and thic 24th Deccinher, 1958 , the Central Gov. 
einment hereby nominato Capt. J. D . Modly , IN , as a Ncui 
ber of the Getieral Comtoittce for management and adminis 
tration of the Merchant Scamen s Amenitics Fund , vice Capt. 
K . R . Nair, I.N ., resignel. 

J. V . DASS, Under Scry. 


(iv ) The scheme for the construction of a six -berth wet dock 
was in different stages of progress. The contract for the 
cousituction of the wet dock was awarded in October 1958 and 
orders were placed for neccinary equipment, 

(v ) The work on the Coal and Ore Yards was completed 
during the year. 

( vi) The castern sidings of the Marshalling Yard were near 
ing completion . A new mixed gauge weighbridge was com 
pleted . The road and thc fencing round the Marshalling 
Yard were colopleted during the ycar . Additional land to an 
cxtent of 25 actes were acquired from the Madras Government 
along the foreshore . 

( vii) The construction of the low level reservoir for water 
supply to the Hospital and Administrative Office was in pro 
gress. 

(viii) The work of constructing a double -storeyed warehouse 
K aç the site of the Spring-haven Shed wag started . The 
R . C Pile foundation work was completed and the building 
superstricture work was commenced . 

(ix ) A louble storeyed warehouse in replacement of the 
cxisting warehouse W was constructed and thrown open to 
traffic during the year, 

(x ) The new Hospital anıl the Dispensary started function 
ing during the year . 

(xi) Pilc foundation for the construction of the new Admin 
istrative Offices was complcter during the year and the super 
structure work was commenced . 

( vii) The housing programme of the port made further 
progress during the year. Sixteen units of type I and 108 
units of type II quatters at Cosimode werc constructed and 
allottcrl to the cmployces. The construction of 78 units of 
type I 300 108 units of type II at Tondiarper was nearing 
completion . Work on the construction of 156 units of type I 
and 121 units of type II at Tondiarpet has made substantial 
progress. Additional land adjoining the cxisting housing 
colony is heing acquired to cnable construction of additional 
unita, 

(xiii) The work relating to the provision of office accotomo 
dation for the Mariras Dock Labour Board was nearing com 


pletion 


( xiv ) The Pott Trust acquired a number of steel bargeg. a 
fork lift truck , tractors, cranes, a fucl injection equipment, a 
werling set, a boring machine, lathes an ambulance van , 
welling and cutting outfit, and stcel sack trucks. 

Acknowledgement: 

The Port Trust Board performed another ycar of useful 
work and Government view with appreciation the work done 
by the Board during the year under revicw . 

NAKUL SEN , ſt. Sccv . 


(Department of Tranpoit) 
(Transport Wing) 

PORIS 
New Delhi, the 28th November 1959 
No 13 -PG (39 ) /89 . The Government of India have received 
thc Administralion Report of the Port of Madras for the 
year 1958 -59 , The following are the noteworthy features of 
the Report: 

1. Financial Results: 

The financial results for the ycar were satisfactory. The 
Revenuc receipts of the Port Truat for the ycar under rcview 
amounted to Rs. 219.78 lakhs as against Rs. 205. 13 laklig in 
the previous year, 

The not expenditure for the year, exclucling the amount 
held under suqpense and the amounts paid as contributions 
to the Renewals and Replacement Fund , Gencral Insurance 
Fund , Capital Account and the Revenue Reserve Fund aggrc 
gating 10 Rs. J 17 15 lakhs, amounted to Rs, 160 ,79 lakhs as 
against Rs. 135 . 99 lakhs during thc previous ycar. Ilie TC 
duction in the revenue surpluses of the port for thc year 
has compared to the previous year was mainly due to a fall 
in thc revenuc receipts (Rs, 45 ,69 , 279 ) , incicavec cstablish 
mnent charges (Rs. 6 ,29 ,878 ) and payment of incrcaned debt 
charge (Rg. 10 ,42,619 ). 
Pilotage Fund: 

The Pilotage Fund rcccipts and expenditure amounted to 
Rs. 7 .87 lakhs and Rs. 8 .14 lakhs respectively . The cxpendi 
ture is inclusive of a contribution of Rs. 2 lakhs to the 
Revenuc Account. The actual closing balance of the Pilotage 
Fund at the end of 1958 -59 Wiis Rs 5 ,57 ,139 . 
Reserve Funds : 

The balances in the various Rcscrve Funds at the cnd of 
the year were satisfactory . 
Qutstanding Loans: 

Thc outstanding anount of loans taken by the Port Tnist 
from Government was Rs. 143 .08 lakhs at the end of the 
ycar, 

An agreement was signed with the International Bank for 
Reconutiuction and Developincut, Washington for the stant 
of a loan of 14 million dollars to enable the Madras Port 
Trust to meet the forcign exchange requirements of the 
developincnt programinc of the Port. A qum of Rs. 29 ,87, 264 
was drawn fiom the Bank in various currencies during the 
year , 

2. Trallic: 

The total dead wcight tonnage of imports and exports, 
which passed through the Port during the year was 17 , 37, 599 
and 7 ,02,709 respectively . The figures for the last year were 
1887, 189 (imports ) and 618599 (exports ). There was a 
decrease in foreign and coastwisc imports and an increase in 
both foreign and ( oastwise cxports. The total volume of 
trade, that passed through the Port during the vear register 
cd decrcasco 262 compared with the previous year . 

The tonnage of coal imported by sca during the year 
was 819 ,221 ay against 857, 961 during the picvious year. 

3 Shipping : 

The number of vessels. excluding sailing vessels, that 
entered the harbour during the year was 10876 is against 999 
in the previous year. Tlie net connage incicased froin 
3, 197 ,112 to 1,040, 702 . Seven sailing Vack with 1 netton 
nige of 131 nived during the year an acainst 17 with a 
net tonnage of 1458 during 1957 -58 . 

4 . Labour : 

The employces of the Port stiuck nork for 11 days from 
the 16th to the 26th June 1958, Bariing this thic labour 
situation in the port curing thic yer was fairly norinal, 
M . Worka : 
The following are some of the notewortlıy itcrns: 

(1) Thc work on the Transit Shell and Passenger Station 
was completed during tlie year and opened for traffic use . 

(ii) The work on the construction of the Orc Bertl was in 
progress , 

( iii ) Piling work for the Coal Jetty was commenced during 
the year. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION & BROADCASTING 

RESOLUTION 

STATE AWARDS For Films 

New Drlhi-2 , the 27th November , 1959 
No 21 / 11 /89- FC ( FT). - In supcression of the Resolution of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Information and 
Proadcasting No 21 / 5 / 58 -FC , dated the 8th December, 1958 , 
the following rules are notified conceining State Awards for 
Tilms: 

RULES 
1. The object of the Statc Awards for Filing is to cncourage 
the production of films of a high aesthctic and technical 
standard and of cducational or cultural value. 

2. The following State Awards for Films have been insti. 
tuted : 
All- India Anlards 
(a ) Feature Films: 
(1) Prceident s Gold Medal for the best film and a cash 

prize of Rs. 20 ,000 to its producer and Rs. 5 ,000 to 

its director . 
(ii) All - India Certificate of Merit for the scrond best filin 

and a cash prize of Rs. 10 ,000 to its producer and 

Rs 2 ,500 in its director. 
(iii) A11 -India Certificate of Merit for the third bcat filma . 
(b ) Documentary Films: 
(i) President s Gold Medal for the heat film and a cash 

prize of Rs 4 ,000 to its producer and Rs. 1,000 to its 

director. 
(ii) All- India Cestiſicale of Merit for the second best film 

and a cash prize of Rs. 2,000 to its producer and 

Rs, 500 to its director , 
( iii ) All - India Certificate of Merit for the third bcat film . 
(c) Children s film : 
(1) l rimc Minister s Gold Medal for the best film and 

cash prize of Rs. 20 ,000 to its producer and 
Rs. 5 , 000 to its director , 


262 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 3 , 1959 / AGRAHAYANA 14, 1881. 


[PART 1 - Stc . 1 


- 


= 


= 


( ii ) All-India Certificate of Merit for the second best film 

and a cash prize of Rs 10 ,000 to its producer and 

Rs. 2 ,500 to its director. 
( iii) All-India Certificate of Merit for the third best film . 
(a ) Educational Films ( 16 min only) : 
(i) President s Gold Medal for thc best film and a cash 

prize of Rs. 4 ,000 to its producer and Rs 1,000 to its 

director, 
( li ) All -India Certificates of Merit for the second and 

third best films. 


12 . Each Regional Committee will be composed of: 

(a ) A Chairman noininated by Government, 
(b ) Not morc than four distinguished persons of culture , 

art of literature nominated by the Government of 
India in consultaion with the State Government con 
cerned with language . (Care will be taken to coure 
that all the languages of the region are represented in 

the selection of these four persons). 
(c ) Persons, not exceeding threc , qualifiel to judge techni 

cal standard , presentation , direction and treatment 
values of filmy, nominated by Government from a 

panel of names representing the industry. 
19 . The Regional Committees will recommend in order of 
merit a list of three feature Glug in cach language of con 
sicleration by the Central Committee, 


NOTE : 
The term cducational film means an educational film 

in 16 mm only and inclucles a scientific , inytructional 

or experimental film , 
(e) Filınstrips (95 mm ): 

(1) President s Silver Melal for the best filmstrip . 
(ii) All- India Certificates of Merit for the second and 

third best filmstrips. 
Regional Awards 
( f) President s Silver Mccial for thic licet fcature film in cach 

Indian language and Certificates of Merit for the 
two next best feature films in cach guch language , 


14 . The documentary filmy entered for thc Awards will be 
initially examined by a Documentary Committee appointed by 
Government with a membership not exceeding five including 
the Chairman . This Comiittcc will recommend in order of 
meiit up to six documentary films for consideration by the 
Central Committee . 


15 . The cducational films and Almstrips entered for the 
Awards will be initially examincil by an Educational Commit 
tec appointed by Government with a membership not exceed 
ing five including the Chairman . The Committec will recom 
mend in ora of merit up Lo six educational films and up to 
six Glustrips for consicleration by the Central Committee . 


Explanation 
The terms " producer " and " director " used herein will be 
construed as rcferring to the proclucct at circitor, 
28 the case may be , as given in the credit titles of the filmi çluly 
certified by the Central Board of Film Censors. 

9 The Awards will be made annually on a date to be fixcil 
by Government. 


4 All Indian films certifed for public exhibition by the 
Central Board of Film Comors and all filmstrips certified hv 
the producers as produced in the piccrding calendar year will 
be cligible for « ntry, which may be made by the producer 
or any other duly authorised person in the Form (ontaincal in 
the Schedule hercto annexed . 

✓ No cntry (ce will be chaired , but the entrant will sul 
mit at his cost to such Regional Officer of the Cential Board 
of Film Censos 01 to any other authority 19 may he specified ; 
(1) a print of the film or the filmstrip a4 the casc niay be: 

and 
( ii) a copy of the synopsis, together with an English 

Tending theicol and a copy of thic Yong , if any, 
together with their free translation in English or 

Hindi 
The entrant of a film selected for viewing by the Central 
Committee will wubmit at his cost the specifierl fiumber of 
copic of the detailed dialogile script in English or Tindi as 
well as the publicity mateilal relating theicto in adılition to 
the print and synopsis of the filin 

6 . The decision of the Government of India whether any 
film is a feature film , documentary film , ducational film or 
children s film for the purposc of entry for the Awards will 
be final, Government may prescribe the maximiin length 
of a children s film for the purpose of entry for the Awardy, 

7 Ordinarily , a film which is a dubbed version a retake or 
an adaptation of another film will not be eligible for con 
sideration for the Awards. Government may , however , in any 
particular instance , where it is satisfied that the adapter 
version or the retake represents a fresh contribution towards 
the interpretation of the subject , allow the entry of such a 
film for the Awards The producer of a film marle in more 
than one language versions , may eutet only one of the versions 
of that film Films hard on classirs or mythology shall not) 
by reason of the subject only , be decmed to be adaptations. 

8 Entries for the Awards will be invited by Government 
during a period to be notific relaxable in exceptional careg 
at the discretion of Government 

9 All transport costs on the consignment and cturn of the 
films and publicity material will be payable by the entrant 


16. The Central Committee will be composed of : 

(a ) A Chairman nominated by Government. 
(b ) Chairnicn of the three Regional Conmittcca , Educa 

tional Comunittee and thic Documentary Committee. 
Wherc a Chairman js not available LO Nit on the 
Central Committee, Government may noininate a 
member of the Coromiticc concerned on tlic Central 

Committee. 
( c) Not more than fout distinguished persons of culture , 

art of literature nominated by Government. 
(d ) Perony, not cxceeding three , qualificd to judge techni 

cal standard , preventation , direction and treatment 
values of Mim , norninated by Government from a 

panel of naines representing the industry . 
(c ) One member of the Central Board of Film Censors 

nominated by Government , 
17. Nothing contained in rules 12 , 14 , 15 and 16 will pre 
clude thc co option hy a Committec of an additional member 
or members to assist the Central, Documentary , Educational 
or a Regional Conimittee, as the cave may be, in examining 
documentaiv , educational or children s film or filing in any 
language and the member or mcmhcre 80 co -opted will have 
all the rights of an ordinary member . 

18 . Membership of the Central, Documentary , Educational 
and Regional Committees will be honorary, but the members 
nay hc allowed such travelling and conveyance allowances as 
may he sanctioned by Government from time to tiinc. 

19 The Central Committee will consider the recommenda 
tions of the Regional Committees, the Educational Committec 
and the Documentary Committee and recommend in order of 
tuciic : 

(1 ) Three best feature films for the All India Awarda. 
( 2 ) Thyre best documentary filing for the All - India 

Awards 
(3 ) Three best educational films for the All- India Awards. 
(4 ) Three best filiostrips for the All -India Awards 
(5 ) Three best feature films in cach languagc other than 

English for Regional Awards 
20 ( 1) The Central Committce will, subject to the pro 
visions of sub sule ( 2 ), also examine the children s films 
entercil for the Awards and iccommend the best three films 
in order of merit 

( 2 ) If the number of cntries in the category of children s 
filmy 90 warrante , Government may entrust the initial exami 
nation of filing to the Document:ity Commillce or a Special 
Comunitec constitute for this purpose consisting of not more 
than five Thembety including the Chairman , which will recom 
mend in order of incrit. not more than six films for con 
videration by the Cential Comthittec , 

21 The Regional Committecs, the Documentary Committce , 
the Educational Coinmittee , the Special Committee for 
Children s Film (11 any) and the Central Committee may 
determine their own procedure for the examination of Glts. 

22. Tlie quorum of cach of the Documentary Committee , 
J Jucational Commiiice and the Special Commilicc for 
Chuldren s Filmy will be three , while that of the Central and 
the Regional Cominittcce seven and four respectively . 

28 . Nothing contained herein shall be construed a restrict 
ing the discretion of a Regional Committce, the Documentary 
Committec, the Educational Connittce , the Special Committee 


10 All ſilns will be suhmittcıl at owticr s risk and while 
the Government will take everv Tersonable care of the films 
submitted it cannot accept responsibility for loss or damage 
to the film while in its posuession . 


11 Threc Regional Committrey appointed by Government 
will initially crimine feature filmig encicd for the Awards in 
the languages indicated below : 

(i) Region . Compluten at Bromhay - - Hlindi (including 

Viilu na Tlindustani), Marathi, Panjabi. Gujarati , 

Sindhi and English . 
(II ) Regional Committee at Calcutta - Bengali , Assamese 

and Oriya 
(iil) Regional Committee at Madras - Tamil , Telugu , 

Kannada and Malayalam , 


PART I - Sec. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 5 , 1959 / AGRAHAYANA 14, 1881 


263 


- 


- 


for Chilchen s Films (if any) or the Central Committee from 
making a commcndation that none of tlie films in a parti 
cular language or category is of a standard adequate for an 
Awaid . 


24 . The secongendutions of the Cential Commiticc will be 
submitted to Government. 


25 . A filin will be eligible for an Awald only it one of the 
(nu categories viz., feature , docuinicntary , educational or 
children s film A feature film receiving an All- India Award 
shall fiot hc eligible for a Regional Award 


26 . The Rcgional Comnticry , the Documentary Committec , 
the Eclucational Coinpiittee , the Special Committec for Child 
ren s Films ( if any) and the Central Conmiller will 
Clinic 11ms el sucli place and time as may be considered 
feasible 


27 Government shall be cutitlcd 10 Hlain , without pay . 
Kucnit of cost, the paint citered Inr the Awards of a Glin or 
hlmstrip , which Icieives an Iwaid in the form of a Medal 
and / or carli 


2X Ilic function for the picventation of the Awardly will 
be held at such place and on such date as Government may 
clciarminc. 


29 . Cany. ssing in any form in respect of an enlis will in 
der that entry liable to disqualification for Awards Ant 
member of the Central Coinmittcc , Dexcumentary Commiltec , 
Educ11171 Comiiliac , ihic Special Committee for Children s 
luluns auf any) on the Regional Committers found canvassing 
foi a pan111lu7 luni is llible to be lisqualifed foi mcmlier 
ship of the Committees 

MTVUC 

Form 
los entry to the State Awards for Film 
(7 olic sulmitted in duplicair ) 

See Tulc 1) 
l o 

The Regional Omci, 
Cerita Brno of Saime Commoja 
Hom .ly /Ciklin Ilah. 

Inil ) for Sale fumils for Tilms 
1 (i) Title of the film / filnstiip 
il) Whicther l autuic / Documentary Educational/ Chilluns 

film . 
( iii) Language of the fijn . 
(iv ) Length and gauge of the filmi / filmstrip . 
(v ) Number of reels. 
(vi) Colour of the film / filmstup . 
( vii) Namc and full address of the producer (with lelophonc 

Jumber and telegraphic address, if any ) . 
(vin ) Nome and full address of the Director. 
(iv) Names and full aduli esses of principal inembers of the 

CASI, 
( x ) Number and date of Certificalc of Exhibition 
(xi) Date of relcave. 

2 . Plcasc state whether the filin is a clubbed version , an 
adaptation ou a retake of another fum . I 180 , give particulass 
of the ulm of which it is a dubbed version , an adaptation or 
a retake. 

3 . Whcie tre person making the entiy is not the producer , 
plcave state whetlier he has been duly ailthorised to make the 
entry . 

I ccrtify that the statements made above are 11ue to the 
best of my knowledge and belief . 

I hereby gicc to the Government ictailing the print of ille 
Tilm /Almistuip . without payment of cost, in the event of its 
Yu r civing an Award in the form of a Medal and / or cash 

" I certify that the Glmstrip was produced during the 
year. -- 


PUBLIC NOTICE 

Srar AWARDS FOR FILMS 

New Doh - 2, thc 2nd December, 1959 
SUBJECI: - Enties for State Awards for films for 1959 

No. 7 / 14 /59- FI. - In pursuance of rule 8 of the Rules con 
rerning State Awards for Films notified in the Resolution of 
tlie Goverment of India in the Ministry of Information and 
Broadcasting No. 21 / 11 / 19 - FG ( FI), dated the 27th November , 
1959 , entries for the State Awards for Films are hereby invited 
in respect of Indian films certified for public exhibition during 
the calender year 1959 and filmytrips produced during the 
same year The cnity in respect of it film or filmstrip may 
be made by its producer or any other person duly authorised 
hy him in this belialf , up to January 7 , 1960 , free of charge. 
The entry will lic made in duplicate in the l orm presci ibed 
in tır Schedule annexed to the Rules referied to hove . 

? Entries in respect of ile various cateyories of filips should 
for addiessed to the allioilies indicated below : 
(a ) Regional Officer , Central Board of Film Censors, 91 , 

Falkeshwa Road , Hombuy-o . 
(1) Feature films in Hindi (including lydu and 

Hindustani), Guimati, Manthi Punjabi, Sindhi 

and English 
li) Documentary filios in all languages. 
( 11i ) Children s alins in all languages 
Lv) Erlucational him i wl langu . ges. 

(v) Filmstrips 
( b ) Arvonal Office Control Board of Tilen Censors, 12 , 

Dalliousie Square , Culcutta . 
Feature films in Bengali, Oriya and Aramise 
(n ) Regional Oficos , ( nal Bredd ol Irlan Canse , Flat 

Vo. 17 , Sicond floor, 1quichant Af1115101 , Mluunl Road , 

[atur- 2 

Feature filmny in Tamil, i clugu , Kuala and Alalayalım . 
Tin entant will be che lo vubnut at his cost to such 
Regional Officer of the Central Board of film Censors or to 
day other authority is may be recibeu a print of the film on 
The lonip wild a copy of the wynopsis and songs togetlier 
with a 11 linglish icndering theicof The entrant of a filin 
selected 101 viewing by the Cential Conimitiec will subinit at 
luis cost tlic specified nubibcy of copies of the detailed dialogue 
Meript in Fuglisli o Hindi as well as the publicity matcrial 
Jelating thesetu lit addition to the paint and synopsis of the 
film , 

1 Die Governmcut of India liave decided in pursuance of 
rule of the Rules Ceculiig the State Awards for films that 
die Icugih of . chillien s film wall not cxrecd 8 ,000 fect in 
35 m ( , 200 feet in 16 mm foi the purpose of cntry for 
the Awards. 


D . R . KIIANNA , Under Sccy, 


AIINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 


New Delhi, the 281h 101 . 1959 


No , LRII/ 8 (80 )/58.-- The following decision of Shi Salim 
M . Meichaut, Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
Dhanbad , in lespect of the matter icferred to him under scc 
1 ion 36A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947 ) by 
the order of llic Government of India in thc Ministry of 
Lalour & Einployment No. So , 2289 , dated the 18th October , 
1958 79 forlife by the corrigendum No , S . O . 642 , dated thc 
110) Mulch 1959 sccking the correct interpretation of the 
Awal of the All India Industrial Tribunal ( Colliery D18 
putey) in cgard to the payment of cicainers allowance on 
inal and lift wages in iespect of the workinen employed in 
thic collicries in Assam , is liereby published for general infoi. 
mation 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 

I RIBUNAL , DHANBAD , 
RIEŁRENCE No. 59 or 1958 

PARTIES: 
Emplnyers in rclation to certain Coal Mince in the State of 
Orista und Their workman , ay mentioned in Government of 
India . Order No . S . O . 2289 , dated 18th October 1958 published 
in thic Carcle of India , Part II , Section 3 (ii) dated 1st 
November , 1958 at page 2156 as amended by notification No. 
LRIT / 3 (30 ) / 58 , calcul 11th March 1959 . 


Dalc: 

acc : 
* Dclete if not applicable . 


Signature: 
Address: 


Ordered that the Resolution be published in thic Gazette of 
India for general information . 

V . KUMAR , Dy. Secy. 


Rc: In the matter of a refcrcncc linder Section 36A of the 
Industrial Dispules Act 1947 and in the matter of interpreta 
tion of vic award of the All India Industrial Tribunal (Col 
liery Disputes) dated 26th May , 1956 as modified by the deci 
sion of the Labour Appellate Tjibunal of India dated 29th 
January , 1957. 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


264 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 5 , 1959 / AGRAHAYANA 14, 1881 [PART I -Sea. 1 

- - - - -- - - - - - -- = 

= 
Dhanbad , duted the 14th November 1959 

also received from the Chief Executive Officer for Onent Col 

licrics which is owned by Central India Coal Fields Ltdl. There 
PRESENT: 

after , this ieteicnce at the requeut of the parlier wals licari 
Shri Salim M , Merchant, B . A .LL .B ., Presiding Officer. 

at Calcutta on 18th and 19th Steptember, 1959 . 

3. At the outset it ly necesary to dispose of (Titain prelimi. 
APPEARANCES ; 

nary objections uiged by the employers against the present 
Shri Kanti Mohta , General Secictary , Indian National Coal 

refeicnce. The Orient Colllcry in its written alennent lias 

uged that its workmen liad not raised any dispute , doubt 
Mine Workers Federation , for the workmen concerned . 

oi difficulty with regard to the question under reference 11 
Shri F . P . Patckh . Laljour Adviser, Klllick Industries 

whether teames4 allowance is payable on lead and litt walcs, 
Liputed , for the Kingir Rampur Coal Co. Ltd . 

and therefore the present Guveininent otiler of reference is 
Shri K . P . Mookerjee, Secretary , Bharat Manufacturers, 

ultri vires of the Industrial Divpulcs Act , 19:17 . In my 
Traders and Dealers Association with Shri Vidhu Sekhar , 

opinion , under Section 36A it is not at all necessary that it 
Chief Executive Officer, for Orient Colliery. 

dispule should dilge belween tlic employers and his 

woikmen , 
Shri K . Shaninghavel, Labour Officer , Talcher Colliery , for 

Ilie loubt of dilliculty is 1.0 be that of the 

Government, because itider the Includin Disputes lol, it is 
the Talcher and Doulbera Collieries of the National Coal 

Government who has to entorce thc Awad. What is whaterial 
Development Corporation Private Limited , 

is the opinion of thc Gorcumvent that a doubt or 
STATE : ORISSA 

INDUSTRY: COAL Jificulty had jis n will icgard to the corect interprctation 
DECISION 

of any provisions of in Award . Para 2 of the order of refc 

rence herein Gearly recites that in tlic opinion of the Cential 
By the following Order No . LR - II- 3 (80) / 58 , dated 18h Governnient a doubt liay arisen as to the correct interpretation 
October 1958 the Central Government in cicrcise of the of the award on the question of whicther connes allowance 
powers conferred by Section 964 of the Industrial Disputes 14 payable on lead and lift wages, to tie workmen employed 
Act 19:17 (XIV of 47 ), was picancd 10 nefer this cater to ine in the ( ollierics in Orissa . anil it would not be for the 
for decision 

Tribunal to question that opinion . As it is clear from the 
Dated New Delhi the 18th October 1958 . 

rolificativni iliat Governinent feels a doubt or difficulty with 

vegard the correct interpectation of the provisions of the 
ORDER 

4ward selating to payment of learness allowance on lead and 
9. O . - Wicieag an industrial dispule between the ci litt wages , and as government wants to ascertain what 
ployeid in relation to certain coal mine , and their workmen 19 the concet inte pietation of the Award on This 
was referred for adjudication to the All India Iwdustual point, this refernce in my opinion ig valld and proper It 
Tubual ( Colliery Disputes) and its award was published in may , however, Doc Laled that it is not denial by Hingi 
the Gazette of India extraordinary Part II , Section 3 date the Raipur Coul Co. I ll., that it workmen had Cuimed pav 
2642 May 1956 ride SRO 1224 dated the 18th May 1956 ; 

ment of sepale deliness allowancCon Icad ani ! lift wagog 

under the trrny of the Majumdar Award applicable to the 
Tut who rucs in the opinion of thic Central Government a 

collienics in Ori447 That divpute was referred to contillation 
duhet loss an d to the rushtet interpretation of paragraph 

but conciliation iculier in Cailure and the concillarion 
0013 ob the will 11 .1911 on the prestion spoecilin in the sche 

forwardeil his failure report to Government. This woul ! 
qilm lici ) U11CI; 

palablish that Govcuinent hall applied its mind to the child 
Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers 

tions contained in the Award und is in the opinion of the 
conferred by 

Cential Goreument there is a doubt its to the correct inter 
Scction 36A of the Industrial Dispilles Art 147 1111 of 1947 ), 

pictation of thc Award on this point it was winpctent lot 
the Central Government hereby refers the said question for 

is under Section 961 of the Act to refer the question to all 
decision to the Int4rial Tribunal, Dhanbad , constituted 

Tribunal for the walicct inlcipretation of the Award of the 
under Section 7A of tlic said Act. 

Tribunal I, theictore, reject this contention an holl tril 
SCHEDULE 

the inrant reference is vilid under Section 361 of the Art 
" 11 hotlier the deainess allowance is payable on load and and I have jurisdiction to entertain the same 
lile wages in regarıl to the workineu employed in the col 

4. The next legal objcction urged by Shri Mookerjee wars 
lieries in Orissa ." 

that ay according to him the question of payment of dearness 
2 . Upon receipt of the order , notices were issued upon the allowance on Icad and lift was not covered by the terms of the 
pantics mentioned in the said order for filing tliest written icſcience made by the Central Government to the All India 
statements . A written Stalement dated 2012 November, 1958 Industrial Tilbunal ( Colliery Disputes ) , the Government had 
was receivel from the General Secretary, Rampur colliery Maz Ilo juuiscliction to reter for interpretation an issue which not 
coor Congress. The Blingir Rampur Coal Co . Ltd . files its writ covered by the original order of icference . In this connection , 

Shri Mwokerjee referic 
ten stateinent dated 26ch December , 1938 on 29th December , 

to the matters stated in Schedule 

II to the Govelment Order of reference, referring the coal 
1958 and the Orient Colliery through its Chief Executive Offi . 

1959 on clispute to the All India Industrial Tribunal (Colliery DIA 
( er, bled it willen statement dated 7th January, 

putes ). That schedule specifies 7 items of 
9th January 1959 . Both these written statements on behalf 

dispute . Shri 

Vookerjee hay rcfeiicd to Itein No . 2 in Schedulc fi, in whiclı 
of tlic cmployers pointed out that reference to para 603 of 172c 

the dispute specilied was, " Inclusion of pay for leal and / or 
Awaid of the All Indla Industrial Tribunal (Colliery Disputey), 

lift in waves for calculation of bonus and provident fund " . 
111 tlic Guveinnicht Orcler of reference clated 18th October, 1958 

His point was that as uncler item No , 2 . the demandt with re 
was incoricct as that paragraph of the Award dit not deal 

gard to the lead and lift was confined only to its being treated 
with the question of leach and lift wages at all. It appears 

29 wages for calculation of botius and provident fund , there 
that there ipon the union applied to Government suitably to 

was no dispute with regard to thic claim for payment of dcar 
amend the order of reference and thereafier by corrigenclum 

ness allowance on Icad and lift wages, But , as iightly pointed 
No . LR . II / 3 ( 30 ) / 58 datert 11th March 1959 tlic Government 

out by Shri Kanti Mehta the question of the rate of payment 
of India was pleased to direct that the words, " para 663 of" ap . 

of lead and lift, and whether clearnesy allowance shoull be 
peaning in its said onder dated 16tlı October , 1958 published 

paid on lead and lift wagey was covered by itein I to 
al page 2156 in the Gazette of India , Part II Section 8 (ii) datel 

the 

Schedule II which dealt with the general guction of wages 
1st November , 1958 , be deleted. After this corrigendum was 

fresh 
issued the parlles were directed to filc 

written state 

in the Coal Industry and which was in the following terms: 
ments and thereafter written statements on behalf of the work 

" Wigey of all categories of workers cmployed in coal 
men from Shri Kanti Melita , Geficial Secretary , Indian National 

wines, including in parlicular the following mattery: - 
Mine Workers Federation dated 29th April 1989 was received 

(i) grading; 
on 2nd May, 199 On behalf of the employery also fresh 
wiittat statements were received . The Assistant Superintendent 

( in ) standardiyation ; 
of Collicrics, Talcher, who is Agent under thic Mines Act 1952 

(iii ) equal wages for men and women (or equal woth : and 
of the Tulcher and Deulbera Collieries situate in the state of 
Orissa of the National Coal Development Corporation ( Private ) 

(iv ) the wages of: 
Lid , in his wiitten statement catei 18th May, 1959 stated that 

( a ) time-rated trammers; 
m!) far no occasion has arisen for the payincnt of lead and liſt 

(h ) minery other than gallery -faced pick uniners : 
wages in those collleric , and as such there was no dispute re 
Burding the interpretation of the Majumdar Awarıl in respect 

il ) work 13 ungagcul in stone-cutting anal deving, and 
of the question whether learness allowance is payable on lead 

( d ) other linskilled workers , male and female . 
and lift wages. In icy written latement lie bas further stated 

The first item 
that if in future any occasioni arisey for payınent of lead and 

of displice thus covered the question of all 

payments made lu minc workery including the payinent for 
litt wages the award of the 411 India Industrial Tribunal (Co ) 

lead and lift and whetliei dealness allowance should be paid 
liei Disputes ) as inodified by the decision of the Lubom 
Appelloile Tribunal, woulil he followed , I may as well at this on wages canned by Wly of lead and lift . From even a cur 

soly pausal of the Majumdar Award it is quite clear that the 
stage state that Sluri Shanmughavel, the Labout Oflice for the 
Telchar and Deullera Collieries of the National Coal Develop , question of payment of Icarl and liſt wages and whether dear 

ucss allowance should be paid theicon or not, was ticated by 
ment Corporation ( Private ) Ltil , at the learing further stated 

all partics before thic Majumdar tribunal as Leing covered by 
thal in itu wiitten utalement before the Coal Arbitrator the 

ilen 1 in Schedule II to the Order of Reference and as I 
Corporation liad admilted that it is Other collierie , outside 
Oring . Stale separate clearness allowance at the rate of 150 % Słall presently point out, there are several paragraphs of the 
11. s leing paiil on the lead und lift wages. The Hingis Ram Vajumdar Award which make this position quite clear , I 
pur Coal Co, Ltd ., filecl its fresh wiitien statement ( lated 22nd would , therefore , reject this legal objcction , which was also 
Mors 1979 011 27l Mai 112 and il witte statement un Trucd on behalf of ihe Hingir Rampuit Coal Co. Itd . 


Part I- Ska 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA DECEMBER 8 , 1959 / AGRAHAYANA 14 , 1881 


265 


- 


- 


5 Shwe HP Parell for the Hingir Rampur Coal ( o Lu 
has uigeal liat the releience of interpretation to tlıly lubunal 
nudei sec 804 not valid on legal 49 this Tribunal was not 
a Member of the Majumdu Tribunal 1 may however slate 
that I was one of the incubeis of the Special Bouch of the 
I about Appellule Tubun 11 wlich hcard the appeals from tlie 
Award of the ti Inda Incluytial lubuuial ( Collie Dzeputey) 
and the award that in enforce is the awid ay inodilied by 
thie Ccision of the Special Kencli Iulour ppcllate (ubunal 
ol whiclı I was Vetuber Buil quite part from the fict I 
aw of the upmon that unti ya 561 it 14 100 dl ull ncle 
89a1y that the interpretation of viy provision of an award ou 
ucilleincnt of which theic 14 ny difficulty or doubt can only 
be referred to the Tuba ) that macle the original awaid Sei 
trun 364 ( 1) 14 79 follows 961 (1 ) If i tre opinion of the 
appropriate Government Puy difficulty Of doull rises 
HD to the interpret 111011 of any provision of an award on 
scttlement il ay icla the question to such Labour Couil 
D inal or National Tubunal as it inay think lit " ( lie 
language of the Section makes it clear that the reference 19 
lo bc i de to such I abour Court Tribunal or National Tri 
bunal 49 Goveinnent thinks it ſit and proper it should be 
rcferred to and not recc97rly to the Tribunal which niade 
the award It must be remeniliered that often times, is in the 
Cate of the 411 India Industrial Tribunal (Collıcıy Disputes ) 
w hou rubunals ITC Coristituted for adjudication of a parti 
cular dispute and after the dispute 19 heard the Tubunal 
makes its award and ( ispersey It may be that long after 
such a Tribunal has dispersed and become funrlus officio 
doubts and diſfculticg inny rise with regard to the intupie 
tation of certain portion of the Anard and thirreafter it woull 
be unpossible foi Government to refer for interpretation the 
doubt oi ufficulty to the original Tribunal which would 
have clispeisel by them But in the interest of industrial peace 
it may be nccessay to refer the qucstion of the correct inter 
piction of any piovisions of the Award decision to another 
Cribunal It is for this ieason that hec 964 ( 1 ) has been 
framed in such general tenng and provides for the Govern 
ment to decide whethci the question of interpretation should 
Bye rcfcrrect to a l about Court Industrial ol Nition 11 Tribu 
nal Tor thieve icason , this objection also fails 11 I hold 
tliat the present reference is valid and piopa unde sec 464 
of the Act and I have jurlıdıction to entertain the same 

6 Bcfore discussing the submissions of the partice on the 
matter under reference it is first neccesary to explain the 
terms lead and liſt which have a special meaning in the coal 
mining industry Ag stated by the Majumdur 1 ribunal " lead 
19 thc payıncnt inace for the distance to be covered by miners 
before they can lead the coil whule liſt is the payment made 
for ( irrying coal up an inclınc " 

7 Both partice at the hearing referred to the varioue 
awards prior to the Majumdar Tubunal concerning the pay 
dent of lead and lift , the first of which was the conciliation 
Board Award of 1947 The Government of India by notifi 
cation No LR II (78 ) dated 5th February 1947 , made in exer 
cike of the powers conferred by Section of the Trade Dig 
puccs Act 1929 was plcared to refer the disputes existing or 
apprehended in the collieries in the Provinces of Bengal and 
Bihar to . Board of Conciliation for promoting settlement 
thereof The Board made its report dated 12th April 1947 and 
at 14 kuown as the Conciliation Board Award The Board 
clealt with the question of rates for lead and lift and obger . 
ved as follow 

We are of the opinion that the workers claims for uni 

formity in the rates for lift and lead are found 
not only will such uniformity provide adequate re 
compence for expenditure of energy according to her 
ght and distance negotiated but will quicken the in 
centive of managements to reduce these hantlıcapy to 
the minimum and thus produce beneficial results by 

improved output per man shift (OMS ) " 
After making these observations the Board recommendel 
as follow ! — 

" Wc therefore recommend the following Bavic" scales 


Labour Lumiyvone Slun ( Joslı Tas theiciipon deputed 
10 look into the matter and in March 1918 a weltlement was 
itached bcfure Shru Joslu which is popularly known thereafter 
19 the Joshui Agreement " lhe vcjy Inst cluse of the Joshi 
Agreement provided us follow 

Payment for lead and lift shall be ticaled is basic wales 

for purposes such as dearnesy allowance 
The agrement has been referred to by lc Vrumlar Tu 
buuil at pula 156 of 114 Award where it has observed - 

The lyrccnient provided all for ( 1) the 11e itinent of 

les and litt a basic wage for purposes of learney 

allowance 
rc Justa igreement therefore yoverrel the payment of 
Terel anil litt wiges in the provucey of Bengal anil Bihar till 
the 1921 ) ol thic Majumdai Tubun cune into operation on 
20th May 1956 

] In puixuance of pala 8 of its resolution to LR II 
( 103 ) dated 12th Vay 1917 referred to enrlick the Government 

1 India in the V estly of Labour appointed a Tict Finding 
Coinmitlee lo icport on the giant of monetary benefits and 
Concessions 10 colliciy wulkris in the ( entral Provinces and 
Berar and in Orissa on lues simular to those granted to colle 
my workers in Bengal and Bihar as a result of the recommenda 
tions of the Board of Conciliation (Colliery Dioplites) The 
( P ) act finding Committee submitted its report catcd 12 h 
July 1917 and on the question of lead and lift at pura 30 of 
its Report it le coinmamed as follow4 – 

Told and lift rules 
in the bigger well orgmised colliency in ( P there die 

not many Instances wieic loaders lave Lo go beyonal 
the acquisito limit 19 lud down by the Board of Con 
ciliation to earn load and lift allowance but to 
induce OWICIs to keep the luiding point 9 nicar to 
the coal face is possible and mitigale hardship to the 
di der He suggent llit lhie Boud of conclition y le 
cumin ndations in this icypict my bc yuton ( flect to 
in lie GK coal felets also 1111 cwciel woull le 
considered an allowance and not an increase on 

thic bayc wagen 
I may icpe it here that the Plict Tinding Committee 
report applical to the Hingır Ranpur lol Ficld in Origyd as 

noled in paidgraph 191 of the Majumular Award 

12 I may here state that the State of Origa contains two 
cual ſickls namely Hingir Rampur Coil Fields and the Tal 
cher Coal Ileld Prior to thc Majumdar Award the collicres 
in Hingir Rampui cual ( elds were govcined in the CP Fact 
Finding Coinmittee s icport and for the Talche area , the 
wige , and cleanness allowance and otha benefits Herc fixed by 
the Government of India Resolution No IRII ( 128) datci 
30th January 1948 The icasonableness of the wages was raised 
by the company and was consideied by the Talclier Award 
dated 25th May 1949 which confirmed the TCCommendations 
contained in the Govertiment of India Resolution ( Sec Pard 
188 of the Majumdar Award ) The Governinent Revolution 
lead stated with regard to the leall and lift that its rates for 
the Talche Coal Cield will be the same as elsсwhere 

19 10 gumumanise the position before the Majumdar ſus 
bunal made its award on 26th May 1956 Wads that for the 
collieries in the Province of Bengal und Bill under the 
Conciliation Board Award ind thc Josu Agreement the lend 
and lift paymenty were to be trcaled as basic wages for the 
purposes guch a dearnc allowance whilst under the CP 

ict finding Committee lepoit though the rates for load and 
lift were to be the amc 45 recommended by Conciliation 
Board Award for Bengal and Bilar they were liowever to le 
considered as an allowance and not an increase on the basic 
Wages 

14 I shall now procecd to teſci to the duections contamcıl 
in tlıç Majumdar Award and the decision of the Labour Appe 
llate Tribunal relating to the payment of lead and lift The 
question of payment for " lead and lift " in the coal lieliis 
of Bengal and Bihar has been lealt with at para 605 of the 
Majumdar Award wluch is as follows - 

605 Lead and lift - Is alicady stated mao Carlie Chap 

ter on the cxisting wage structure the workers die 
paid in illow .ince for Icad and lift on thic ratcs fixou 
by the Conciliation Board Awarı Tesc payments 
tre made with a view to compensating the workman 
for the additional time spent in carrying a load which 
time Othern 180 could have been spent on loading 
more coal The workload fixed by tis (locs not tale 
into account the fai tor of lead and lift Thig hus 
to be done and for this purpose the lead and lift 
have to be included in the wages of the workman for 
pupuses of determining tlie deainee allowance pro 
vident fund etc Ilie question how it whether un in 
CTL 29€ in the latcs is niecesyjny When tlie wages 
for cutting and loading are raised the natural corollary 
Lcreto would be that those rates should be increased 
We hic syliined that at the time of fivng these 
iales tlie Conciliation Board 4ward took into account 
the relation between the cutting and loading and the 
lead anil lift uhuh nuy be taken as approvmately 


8 Then followed certain scales of paymeat for lead and 
luft I may pause here and state that the Majumdar Award 
bas referred to this recommendation of the Conciliation Board 
in para 152 of its award , where it obyerved - 

The Board also suggested standardisation of rates for lead 

and lift and recommended certain basic scales 


I The Government of India by Resolution No LRUI ( 103 ) 
duted 12th May 1947 published the report of the Conciliation 
Board under Scc 12 of the Trade Disputes Act 1929 and in 
para 8 of that Resolution stated as follows - 
" Although the recommendations of the Conciliation 

Board Award are applicable only to collierley in 
Bengal and Bihar Government recognise that appro 
priate action would be necessary in respect of coal 
fields in the Central provinces and elsewhere and 

will take necessary action as soon as possible " 
10 It appears that thereafter certain disputes arose between 
the representatives of the coal industry and labour leaders of 
Bengal and Bihar Coal fielde over the question of proper in 
terpretationi of the Conciliation Boald Award The then Chlel 


266 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 5 , 1959 / AGRAHAYANA 14 , 1881 


[ PART 1 - SEC . 1 


.. 


Bihar was to be considered as basic pay and in Orissa as con 
solidated one or to suggest something different from what is 
there in Bengal and Bihar since the whole award on lead and 
lift for collieries in Orissa was based on the Conciliation 
Board s award and the provisions of the Coal Award in res 
pect of Bengal and Bihar ; (3 ) that it is inconceivable that the 

I ribunal intended to give for lead and lift something less 
than the existing emoluments as the employers interpretation 
seeks to suggest for the collieries in Orissa . In this connection , 
Shri Mchia has filed a statement showing what would be rhe 
position by way of difference in total emoluments on lead and 
lift if no deainess allowance is paid after the award . The 
statement is as follows: 
" Difference in total emoluinents on ‘ lead and lift if no 

dediness allowance is paid after the Awaid . 
Lead Basic D . A . Total Basic Post anard 

As. As. P . As. P . 
o to 50 I I - 6 2 - 6 - 1/-plus 33 - 1/3 % -/1! 4 
50 to Ico 3 4 - 6 7 - 6 - 13 /- plus 33-1/3 % -141 
100 to 150 5 7 – 6 12 - 6 -15 /-plus 33- 1/3 % - 1618 . 

and so on . . .. . . . . . . . . 


The same applicable to lift rates." 
I may make it clear that the chart filed by Shri Mehta refers 
10 wliat was paid in Bengal anıl Bihar prior to Majumdar 
Inaid 


correct. In the circumstances, we direct that the exis 
ting basic wages for lead and lift be increased by 33 . 
1 / 3 per cent It may be noted thąt this increase 
would compensate the worker for the additional 
workload on the one side and would be a disincen 
tive for the management to unnecessarily add to the 

lead and lift, " 
I may here point out that these observations and directions 
were made by the Majumdar Tribunal when dealing with the 
first item of demand under Schedule II to the Government 
order of reference to it which related to " wages of all catego 
jies of workers employed in the coal mines . . 

15 . With regard to the payment for lead and lift for the 
collieries in Orissa , the Majumdar Tribunal in para 666 of its 
award directed as follows: 
" 666 . The basic rates for lead and lift will be the saine that 

we have awarded for Bengal and Bihar ." 
16 . This has clearly reference to the observations and direc 
tions contained in para 605 of its award relating to payment 
ot lead and lift in the collieries in Bengal and Bihar . 

17. In dealing with the item No . 2 in Schedule II to the 
order of reference which related to " inclusion of pay for lead 
and / or lift in wages for calculation of bonus and provident 
fund " the Majumdar Tribunal in para 818 of its Award ob 
served and directed as follows: 
" We find in Bengal and Bihar, at anv iale after the Joshi 

Agreement, the payments foi lead and liſt are treat 
ed as basic wages for puiposcs such as dicainess 
allowance . As these payments are made to the miners 
for the extra and additional work they have to do . 
we give a general direction that these payments should 
be treated as basic wages for calculation of bonus and 

provident fund ." 
18 . As stated earlier, from the Majumdar Awaid there were 
appeals to the Labour - Appellate Tribunal of India before 
whom on the question of " lead and lift" it was urged by the 
workmen that lead and lift payments should be treated scpa 
1ately from the normal basic wages of a work for the pur 
poses of dearness allowance 1.e . that there should be a sopa 
rate dearness allowance paid on the earnings by way of lead 
and lift payments. The Labour Appellate Tribunal by Para 
193 of its decision rejected this demand and observed . - 
193 . " At the hearing of the appeals before us it was uiged 

by a section of workmen that lead and lift should 
be treated separately from the normal basic wages 
of a worker for the purpose of dearness allowance 

This does not appear to have been jaised in the 
Memorandum of appeal of any of the Unions and we 
do not see any justification for it . We are unable to 

allow the claim ." 
19 . I may state that in paia 190 of its decision the labour 
Appellate Tribunal had summed up the directions of the 
Majumdar Tribunal with regard to the payment of lead and 
lift in the following terms: 
" The Tribunal has increasert the pre sward rates by 31 

1 / 3 per cent and lias directed that such pavinent 
shall be part of the basic par and shall count for 

Dearness allowance , provident fund and bonus." 
20 . Before dealing with the aiguments urged by both parties 
I must make it clcar that under this reference my task is con . 
fined to ascertaining as to what in the correct interpretation 
of the direction contained in the Majumdar Award on the 
issue under reference 722 . whether dearnes, allowance is pay 
able on lead and litt wages in regard to the workmen emploved 
in the collieries in Orissa . In a reference under Section 36A , 
it is not the function of the Tribunal to adjudicate upon the 
inerits of any particular demand or its justification . That 
would be a matter for the Tribunal in a reference under Sec 
10 of the Act . A Tribunal functioning on a reference under 
Sec. 36A has only to interpret the award as made and must 
guard against attempting to re-adjudicate on the merits or 
justification of a particular demand . 

21. Shri Kanti Mehta for the unions, in his written state 
ment dated 29th April 1959 and in his arguments before me 
has urged that under the directions of the Majumdar Awarci 
the prescribed rate of lead and lift was only basic rates and 
that dearness allowance was to be separately paid over the 
same at the iate of 150 per cent with efftct from 26th Mav 
1956 the date on which the Majumdar Award came into force 
In support, he argued ( 1) that the Majumdar Tribunal has 
awarded the same and uniform rates of basic pay , dearness 
allowance , lead and life etc . for collieries in Orissa as for 
those in Bengal and Bihar , and that as the rate of Icad and 
tift under the award is only basic rate for the purposes of 
dearness allowance , quarterly bonus and provident fid, as 
far as the collieries in Orissa are concerned , the rate of lead 
and lift as provided in the award is only basic pay and as such 
dearness allowance is separately payable on the lead and lift 
wages, even if the same was denied before the Majumdar 
Award (2 ) that it would lead to absurdity and would be 
against the language and spirit of the Majumdar Award to 
suggest that the provision of lead and lift in Bengal and 


22 . In order to appicciate hu Inlita s Contention , it is 
necessd 16tate the scheme of dai - 95 allir ance prescribed 
by the Majumdar Iwaid as jodified by the decision of the 
I bow lupeliate ( ribunal That Scheme of deale, allo 
wance appears in the chait at Para 69 of the Labour Appe 
lla c Tubural s lecision I his schemic of deainess allowice 
Is mplicible not only to col . eues in Bengal and Bilar and 
Madhu. Pia lesh but also to the collicules in Orissa , Hyderabad 
an ? Vindhra Pradesh , dy stated in para 256 of the Lalmour 

pellate lubimal s decision Non under this scheme of 
learnes allonance the fate of deaines allowance is 150 per 
( ent of the basic wage uptil R $ 126 pei day and the per 
centage idle goes down thereafter till thi basic wave of Rs. 1 . 
118 p Ja 15 reached , on which the deaine ,, allowance at 
the rate of 100 per cent is also Rs 1 11 -8 According to Shri 
Vichit ilic ink and life Nages shouid not be consolidated in 

i go which would iſ consolidated ( airy the rate of 
ricaine allowance apnlicable to the consolidated amount of 
Hanic wages and lead and lift wages , but that the deainess 
allowance shoull be separatelt calculated on the basic earn 
ings bir war of learl and lift which would virtually mean that 
the louders would be entitled to dearness at the rate of 150 
per rent on the lead and lift wages 


b 


23 Shri F Parchh and Shii K . P Mookerjee , for the Hingir 
Rimpii ( oal , Ild and Oiicut Colliery respectively , late 
Erlied on the directions contained in paragraph 190 and 193 
of the Tabour Appellate Tribunal s decision where the clemand 
for treating lead and lift earnings separately from the normal 
hasic nages for the purposes of dearness allowance was rejec 
ter and thcy have argued that that question cannot now be 
re opened in any proceedings under Section 36A of the Act . 
Shui Kanti Mehta , has, however, argued that the Labour Appe 
Jlate Tribunal had not gone into the merits of the deinand 
for ueating lead and lift earnings separatelv for dearnese 
allowance as it held that point had not been raised in the 
inemoran la of appeals of the workmen and he has argued 
that the words " and we do not see any justification for it." 
appearing in para 193 of the Labour Appellate Tribunal s 
decision should not be deemed to be a rejection of the demand 
on its merits There is no doubt that the Labour Appellate 
Tribunal did not entertain this claim in the appeals because 
it held that it had no jurisdiction to do so because none of 
the Unions had raised their claim in their Memoranda of 
appeals and there is nothing to show that the matter was dis 
cussed on its merits before it The words, " we do not see 
any justification for it" , can only mean that the Labour 
Appellate Tribunal saw no justification for allowing that 
point to be urged before it, the same not having been raised 
hy the union in their memoranda of appeals. However , the 
faci Ulat at least a Section of the workmen had in appeal 
urged that lead and lift should be treated separatelt from 
the normal basic wages of a worker for the purposes of cal 
culating learness allowance suggests that at least a section of 
the workmen understood that the Majumdar Award had not 
directed that lead and lift should be treated separately from 
the normal basic wages of a worker for the purposes of 
dearness allowance . Having regard to the direction , " the lead 
and lift wages have to be included in the wages of the work 
men for the purposes of determining dearness allowance, pro 
vident fund etc ." contained in para 506 of the Award , it is 
clear that the Majumdar Award had meant that lead and lift 
wages are to be consolidated into the basic wages for the pur 
poses of calculating dearness allowance and are not to be 
treater as carrying a separate dearness allowance . If the lead 
avd lift wages were to carry separate dearness allowance the 
words " included in the wages" would not have been used . 


NA 


24 . But the question referred for interpretation to this Tri 
bunal is " whether the dearness allowance is payable on lead 
and lift wages in regard to the workmen cmployed in the 
collienęs in Orissa " 


25 For the employers it is argued particularly by Shri 
Parekh , that the Majumdar Award never intended at lcast 
for Orissa that lead and liſt rates should be part of basic 
wagęs Hc has in this connection referrel to the obscrvations 
of CP Fact Finding Committcc report at para 30 of its report 
where it was directed that Icad and lift Tites should be treated 
15 un allowance unlike the durcction contained in the Concilia 
tion Board Award applicable to Bengal and Bihar where Llie 
lead und lift allowance was to be lieated as part of the 
basic wages It 19 no doubt truc that in the CP Cact Find 
ing Connittee s report lead and lift was not treated as part 
of basic wage but was to be treatect is an allowance But he 
are not concemed in this Icference with what the CP Lact 
Finding Committees report had recommended In this refe 
rence what wc liave to consider is the directions of the Majura 
dar Award as applicable to colleries in Orissa and the ques 
tion is whether dearness allowance is payable on lead and 
lift wages In my opinion in this reference the point that 
lias to be decided is in respect of the directions contained 
mainly in para 666 real with para 605 of thc Awar. In scc 
tion V of the Majundai Award which leal with the collicies 
in Orissa , at pala 666 it is directed as follows -- 
" The basic rates for lead and lift will be the samc that 

we have awarded for Bengal and Bihar " 


rates In my opinion the fact that the words " basic wages" 
have been used in para 666 shows that the lead and lift 
earnings are to be treated as basic wages In my opinion 
the Tribunal has directed even for the collierics in Orissa that 
the lead and lift earnings are to be treated as basic wagey and 
to be consolidated in the basic wages for the purposes of dear 
mens allowance rhal this was 90 mcant is clear from what 
the Laboul Appellate Tribunal has stated in para 190 of its 
decision where it observed - 
" The Trbunal has increased the prc award rates by 39 1 / 3 

per cent and has directed that such payments shall be 
part of the basic pay and shall count for deatness 

allowance provident fund and bonus " 
This read together with the directions containcił in para 256 
of the said dccision , make it quite clcar that no difference was 
intended to be made in the matter of treating lcad and Ilft 
earnings as basic wages in Bengal and Bihar and in Orly and 
other States 


Now , the directions with regard to the lead and lift in Bengal 
and Bihar as I have pointed out earlicr are stated in para 
605 I have alrcady extracted that paragraph in full above 
In my opinion the material part of that para for the purposes 
of the present refcrence 18 - 
" The work load fixed by us doce not take into account 

the fact of lead and lift This had to be done and 
for this purpose the load and lift have to be included 
in the wages of the workmen for the purpose of 
determining dcainess allowance , provident ( und etc " 

(Undailining mine ) 
Now , these directions in my opinion also apply to the collic . 
rics in Orissa in terms of what is stated in para 666 of the 
Award Therefore , even in Orissa the lead and lift earnings 
have to be included in the wages of the workmen for the pur 
pose of determining the dcarness allowance proviilent fund 
ctc It is thus clcai that even in Orissa the lead and lift eani 
ings are not to be treated merely as an allowance The words 
" basic rates" appearing in para 666 also make this abundantly 
clear Shri Parekh has argued that lead and lift carnings are 
not to be part of basic wages because if it were so then it 
would pso facto carry with it the bencfit of provident fund 
and bonuy and there was no nced for making a separate 
demand that lead and lift earnings should be trcated as basic 
wages for provident fund and bonus Shu Parckh his arged 
that because the words basic rates have been used in para 666 
of the Majumdar Award whilst the words basic wages have 
been used in para 605 of the award , it shows that the Tribu 
nal meant that in Orissa thc lead and lift carrings were to be 
treated as an allowance whilst in Bengal they were to be trca 
ted as basic wages But it must be noticed that in para 605 
the term allowance has also been used and also the word 


26 In my opinion , the Majumdar Award a moclified by 
the Labour Appellate Tribunal decision did not mean to make 
any difference in the method of payment of dearness allowance 
on lcad and lift payment 1.9 directed by it in Bengal and 
Bihar under para 605 and under para 666 for Onassa The 
fundamental fact must be remembered that Majuudar Tiibu 
nal had by its award sought to hang about a uniformity in 
the wage structure in the collieries in all the States This 
is clear from the observations contained in para 618 of the 
Award where the Tribunal has observed - 
" Thc workroen do not want any distinction to be made 

between one State and another , though in the case 
of Aggam they have pleaded for the retention of the 

existing differentials." 
This was so because , as observed by it in para 619 , it was 
fixing minimum wages for the lowest categories of workmen . 

27 . After an anxious consideration of thc directions con 
tained in the Majumdar Award and the decision of the Labour 
Appellatc Tribunal and the subm182ons of the parties, I ana 
wer thc reference as follows - 
That deamess allowance is payable on lead and lift wages 

in regard to the workmen employed in the collleries 
in Orisa but the lead and Uft wagca are to be con 
solidated in the basıc wages for the purposc of cal 
culating thc deamncs allowance payable at rates 
prescnbcd by para 69 of the Labout Appellatc Iri 
bunal s deasion . 


28 I, therefore , give my decision as stated above and the 
game is submitted to Government 

SALIM M MFRCHANT, 

Presiding Officer, 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal Dhanbad 
Dhanbad 
14th November, 1959 


PR NAYAR , 

Under Secretary 


