REGISTERED No. D . 222 


The Gazette ink of India 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 21 ] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, MAY 26 , 1956 


NOTICE 
The ur dermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 19th 
May 1956 


Ingue 
No . 


No . and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


150 


S.R . O . 1119, dated the tith 
May , 1956. 


Ministry of Finance 


Appointment of date on which 

the Indian Coinage (Amend 
ment) Act, 1955, shall come 

into force. 
Designation of new coin re 

presenting each of the one 
hundred units into which a 
rupee is divided as a Nayı 
Paisa . 


S . R . O . 1120 , dated 

May, 1956 . 


the inth 


Ditto . 


S . R . O . 1121 , 

May , 1956 . 


dated the inth 


Ditto . 


Denominations, dimensions 

designs and composition of 
new coins to be coined here 

after. 
The standard weight of new 

coing. 


S . R . O . 1122, dated 

May, 1956 . 


the lith 


Dittn . 


151 | S . R . O . 1123 , dated the 21st 

April, 1956 . 
52 S .R .O . 1124, dated the 14th 

May , 1956 . 


Election Commission , Election Petition No . 28 of 
India . 

1954 . 
Ministry of Home | Amendments made in the 
Affairs . 

Indian Administrative Service 

(Recruitment) Rules , 1954. 
Ditto . 

Amendment made in the 

Indian Police Service (Re 
cruitment) Rules, 1954. 


S .R.O . 1125. dated the 14th 

May , 1956 . 


153 


S . R . O . 1126 , dated 

May, 1956 . 


the 15th 


Ministry of Finance 
(Revenue Division ) 


Excmption of cloth , when ex 

ported from the whole of cus 
toms duty leviable thercon . 


154 | S .R . O . 1127, dated the 

May , 1956 


14th 


Ministry of Finance | Orders by the Custodian of tho 

Presidency Life Insurance 
Company Ltd ., Bombay . 


155 


S . R . O . 1184, dated the 

May, 1956 


17th 


Ministry of Finance Amendment made in the noti 
(Revenue Division ) fication No . 131-Customs, 

dated the 18th August , 1955 . 


( 785 ) 


786 


THE GAZETTE OF INDLA , MAY 26 , 1956 


[ PART II - SEC , 8 


Issue 


No. and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


No. 


156 


S .R .O . 1185 , dated 

May, 1956 . 


the 3rd 


Ministry of Infor- | Certification of a film to be of the 
mation and Broad - description specified therein . 
Casting. 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on indent to the 
Manager of Publications , Civil Lines , Dellii . Indents should be submittedso as to reach the Manager 
within ten days of the date of issue of these Gazettes . 


PART II Section 3 


Statutory Rules and Orders issued by the Ministries of the Government 

of India ( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and Central Authorities 
( other than the Chief Commissioners ) . 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 

New Delhi, the 15th May 1956 
S . R . O . 1190 . In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
13 - A of the Representation of the People Act , 1950 , as amended by the Represen 
tation of the People ( Amendment) Act, 1956 , the Election Commission hereby 
nominates , in consultation with the Government of Madhya Pradesh , Shri J . $ . 
Dave , M . A ., LL . B ., Deputy Secretary to the Government of Madhya Pradesh , 
Law Department, as the Chief Electoral Officer for that State with effect from 
the 11th May , 1956 . 

[No. 154 / 56. ] 

By Order , 
P . S. SUBRAMANIAN ,“ Secy . 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 
New Delhi -2 , the 18th May 1956 


S . R . O . 1191. In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 17 and 27 of the 
Indian Arms Act (XI of 1878 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the follow 
Ing further amendment in the Indian Arms Rules , namely : 

In Schedule VII to the said Rules, in the entry in column 1 against clause ( a ) 
of item ( 8 ) , the words 
" and the High Commissioner and the Deputy High Commissioners and the 

Assistant High Commissioners for Pakistan in India " 
ghall be omitted . 

[No. F . 15 /5 /56 - Police IV .] 
C . P . S. MENON , Under Secy . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 15th May 1956 
S . R . O . 1192 . - In pursuance of sub -rule ( 1 ) of rule 48 of Order XXI of the First 
Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 ( V of 1908 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoint the officers specified in column 1 of the table below as 
officers to whom notices of orders attaching the salaries and allowances of the 
officers specified in the corresponding entries in column 2 of the said table shall 
be sent. 


PART 11 - Sec. 3 ] 

= 


787 


- = 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 26 , 1988 
= = 

TABLE 


Officers to whom notice 
should be sent 


Oficers whose salaries and allowances 

are attached 

2 


Accountant Gencral Central Revenucs , 
New Delhi 
Under Secretary, Ministry of External 
Affairs 


Gazetted Officers in the Ministry of 
External Affairs 
Non -Gazetted Officers in the Ministry 
of External Affairs 
- - - 

[No. 2- CP / 56.] 
S . DUTT, Foreign Secy. 


. 


New Delhi- 3 , the 17th May 1956 
S . R . O . 1193 - -- In pursuance of clause ( a ) of section 2 of the Diplomatic and 
Consular Officers ( Oaths and Fees ) Act, 1948 ( XLI of 1948 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby makes with effect on and from the 1st June, 1954 the following 
amendment to the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
External Affairs , No . 137 - Cons. I, dated the 10th April , 1952 . 

In the said notification , in the Table, after item No. 5 , the following item shall 
be added , namely : 
“ 6 . Visa Officer , Kandy Consul,” 

[ No. 44 / CS / 56 .] 
N . V . AGATE , Under Secy. 


RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 

(Central Office ) 
Bombay , the 18th May 1956 


S . R . O . 1194 . -- In pursuance of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 4 of the Foreign Ex 
change Regulation Act, 1947 ( VII of 1947 ) , the Reserve Bank of India hereby 
gives general permission to persons other than authorised dealers to buy or 
borrow from or sell or lend to , or exchange with , any person not being an 
authorised dealer , any silver coins current in the Tibet region of China and 
brought or sent into the States in accordance with the notification of the Gov 
ernment of India , in the Ministry of Finance No. S . R .O . 1159 [ F . 3 ( 84 ) - E . F . VII / 56 ] , 
dated the 4th May , 1956. 


(No . F .E . R .A . 143 /58 - R . B . ] 


B . RAMA RAU , 

Governor . 


- - - - - 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE ( REVENUE DIVISION ) 

CENTRAL EXCISES 
New Delhi, the 19th May 1956 


S . R . O . 1195 . - - In pursuance of the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 ( I of 
1944 ) , as in force in India and as applied to the State of Pondicherry , the Central 
Government hereby rescinds the late Finance Department ( Central Revenues) 
Notification No. 5 - Central Excises , dated the 5th May 1945 . 


[No. 3 -CER / 50 .) 
W . SALDANHA , Dy. Secy . 


788 


788 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 26 , 1986 


[PART II - Src. 8 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Departmont of Economic Affalrs ) 

New Delhi, the 19th May 1958 
8 . R . O . 1196. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 28 of the Public 
Debt Act , 1944 (XVIII of 1944 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following amendments in the Public Debt ( Compensation Bonds ) Rules , 1954 , the 
same having been previously published as required by sub - section ( 1 ) of the 
said section , namely : 

Amendments 
In the said rules 
(1) in rule 2 
( a ) for clause (6 ) , the following clause shall be substituted , namely : 
" ( 6 ) " instalment" means periodical payment of a part of the principal 

amount as may be determined by the Government or of interest or of 

both ;""; 
( b ) after clause ( 12 ) , the following clause shall be inserted , namely : -- - 

“ ( 13) " Stock Certificate" means a stock certificate issued under rule 3." ; 
( 2 ) for rule 3 , the following rule shall be substituted , namely : 
" 3 . Form of instrument issuable as Government security under Section 

2 ( 2 ) ( b ) of the Act. — The Government may issue a bond or a stock 
certificate in Form A or as the case may be Form AA , or as near 
thereto as circumstances permit . Save as otherwise provided in these 
rules, a bond or a stock certificate in the appropriate form shall be 

deemed to be a Government security for all the purposes of the Act." ; 
( 3 ) after rule 3 , the following rule shall be inserted , namely : 
" SA . In these rules, references to " bonds" shall, unless the subject or the 

context indicates otherwise, include references to " stock certificates ." ; 
(4 ) for rule 4 , the following rule shall be substituted , namely : 
" 4. Transfer of bonds and stock certificates. The bonds and stock certi 

Alcates shall be transferable only in the manner specified below : - - 
( 1 ) A bond in Form A . 
(a ) it shall be transferable by endorsement and delivery like a 

promissory note payable to order ; 
( b ) no endorsement of a bond shall be valid unless made by the signa 

ture of the holder or his duly constituted attorney or representa 

tive inscribed on the back of the bond itself; 
( c ) no writing on a bond is valid for the purpose of negotiation if such 

writing purports to transfer only a part of the amount denominated 

by the bond ; and 
( d ) the treasury or sub - treasury , or any office of the Bank or the Public 

Debt Omce may decline to accept a bond , endorsed in blank for 
any purpose, unless the endorsement in bank is converted into 

that in full before presentation . 
( 2 ) A stock certificate in form AA . 
( a ) the sicck for which the stock certificate is issued shall be transfer 

able either wholly or in part by execution of an instrument d 

transfer In Form H ; 
( b ) the transferor shall be deemed to be the holder of the stock to which 

the transfer relates until the name of the transferee is registered 

as a holder of the stock by the Public Debt Office ." ; 
(5 ) after rule 4 , the following rule shall be inserted, namely : 
" 4A . Provision for holding stock by trustees and office holders. - ( 1 ) Stock 

tor which the stock certificate is issued may be held by the holder 

of an office other than a public office : - 
( i) in his personal name described in the books of the Public Debt 

Office and in the stock certificate as a trustee , whether of a speci 

fied trust or without any such qualification , or 
(11 ) by the name of his office . 


Part 


of 


TEE QARD 


OF INDIA , MAY 28, the 


Ti ) 


( 2 ) The stock certificate referred to in sub - rule ( 1 ) may be held by the 

holder of the office, either alone or jointly with a person or persons 

holding an office other than a public office , 
( 3 ) When stock is held by a person in the name of his office, any docu 

ment relating to the stock concerned may be executed by the person 
for the time being holding the office by the name in which the stock 

is held as if the personal name were so stated . 
( 4 ) Where any transfer deed , power of attorney or other document pur 

porting to be executed by a stock holder described in the books of 
the Public Debt Office as a trustee or as a holder of an office is pro 
duced to the Public Debt Otice, the Public Debt Office shall not be 
concerned to inquire whether the stock holder is entitled under the 
terms of any trust or document or rules to give any such power or 
to execute such deed or other document, and may act on the transfer 
deed , power of attorney or document in the same manner as though 
the executant is a stock holder and whether the stock holder is or is 
not described in the transfer deed , power of attorney or document as 
a trustee or as a holder of an office and whether he does or does not 
purport to execute the transfer deed , power of attorney or document 

in his capacity as a trustee or as a holder of the office . 
( 5 ) Nothing in these rules shall, as between any trustees or office holders, 

or as between any trustees or office holders and the beneficiaries 
under a trust or any document or rules , be deemed to authorise the 
trustees or office holders to act otherwise than in accordance with 
the rules of law applying to trust, the terms of the instrument consti 
tuting the trust, or the rules governing the association , of which the 
stock holder is the holder of an office ; and neither the Government 
nor any person holding or acquiring any interest in any stock shall , 
by reason only of any entry in any register maintained by or on 
behalf of the Government in relation to any stock or any stock 
holder , or of anything in any document relating to stock , be affected 
with notice of any trust or of the fiduciary character of any stock 
holder or of any Aduciary obligation attaching to the holding of any 
stock . 


( 6 ) The Public Debt Omce may, before making any entry in their books 

describing a person as a trustee of a specified trust , or issuing a 
stock certificate in his name described as trustee with the specifica 
tion of the trust, or acting on any document purporting to be executed 
in pursuance of this rule by a person as being the holder of any 

office, require the production of the necessary evidence." ; 
( 6 ) after rule 5, the following rule shall be inserted , namely : 
" SA . Payment of interest , Interest on stock shall be paid by warrants 

issued by the Public Debt Office and payable at the local office of 
the Bank. Such warrants may at the request of the holder of the 
stock preferred in writing to the Public Debt Office be made payable 
subject to compliance by the holder with such formalities as the 
Public Debt Office may require at any agency of the Reserve Bank 
of India conducting treasury business in the State concerned or at 

any treasury or sub - treasury within that State . 
The presentation of stock certificate shall not be required at the 

time of payment of interest , but the payee shall acknowledge 

receipt at the back of the warrant." ; 
( 7 ) after rule 6 , the following rule shall be inserted , namely : 
" BA . Procedure when a stock certificate is lost, etc . - ( 1 ) Every application 

for the issue of a duplicate stock certificate in place of a stock certi 
ficate which is alleged to have been lost, stolen , destroyed , muti 
lated or defaced , either wholly or in part , shall be addressed to 

the Public Debt Omce and shall be accompanied by 
( a ) the Post Office registration receipt for the letter containing the 

stock certificate , if the same was lost in transmission by registered 
post ; 
a copy of the police report, if the loss or theft was reported to the 

police ; 
( c) an affidavit sworn before a Magistrate testifying that the applicant 

is the legal holder of the stock certificate and that the stock certi 
ficate is neither in his possession nor has it been transferred , pledged 
or otherwise dealt with by him ; and 


790 


THE GAZTE OF INDIA , MAY 20 , 1906 


[ PXT TI - SEC , J " 


( d ) any portions or fragments which may remain of the lost, stolen , 

destroyed , mutilated or defaced stock certificate . 
( 2 ) The circumstances attending the loss shall be stated in the applica 

tion . 
( 3 ) The Bank shall, if it is satisfied of the loss , theft , destruction , mutila 

tion or defacement of the stock certificate , order the Public Debt 
Once to issue a duplicate stock certificate in lieu of the original 

certificate ." ; 
( 8 ) for rule 8 , the following rule shall be substituted , namely : - - 
" 8. Determination of Title by Vesting Order. - Notwithstanding anything 

contained in rule 6 or 6A , the title to a lost, stolen , destroyed , 
mutilated or defaced bond or stock certificate may be determined 

by the Bank by its order vesting title thereto ." ; 
(9 ) in rule 9 , after the word and figure " rule 6 " , the word , figure and letter 
" or 6A " shall be inserted ; 

( 10 ) for sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 14 , the following sub -rule shall be substituted 
namely : -- - 
“ ( 1 ) Şubject to any general or specific instructions of the Bank , the 

Public Debt Office may, by its order, on the application of the 

holder , 
( a ) renew or consolidate a bond or bonds, provided that the bond or 

bonds has or have been receipted in Form D or E as the case 

may be ; 
( b ) renew , sub -divide or consolidate a stock certificate or stock certif 

cates , provided the stock certificate or stock certificates has or have 

been receipted in Form I, J or K , as the case may be ." ; 
( 11) in sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 15 , after the words " or the bond is notified for 
redemption " , the words " or becomes due for repayment" may be inserted ; 
( 12 ) after Form A , the following Form shall be inserted , namely : -- - 

" FORM AA 

( See Rule 3 ) 
Form of Stock Certificate issued under Rule 3 
Inscribed Stock of the 

. . .. .per cent. Compensation Bonds of the Government of. . 
I hereby certify that. . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . is the registered Pro 
prietor of.. .. .. .. .. . . . .. . .. .. . . . . .. .. . .. RS 

Rs. 

.. .. ... . . .. . . Government 
Stock of the Compensation Bonds which bear Interest at. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . per cent. 
per annum , payable yearly /half - yearly from . . . . . . . 

Governor , Reserve Bank of India . 

Manager, 
Reserve Bank of India , 

Public Debt omce . 
Dated . . . . . . . 
( 13 ) after Form G , the following Forms shall be inserted , namely : 


" FORM H . 

(See Rule 4 ) 

Form of Transfer 
I / We . . 

. . . do hereby assign and transfer my/ our interest 
or share in the Inscribed Stock of the . . . . . . . . . . per cent. Compensation 
Bonds of the Government of . . . .. .. .. 
amount / a portion of the stock for Rs. . . . . . . . . . . . . as specified on the face of this 
instrument together with the accrued interest thereon unto . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
his /her / their executors, administrators or assigns, and 
1 /We. 

. . . . . . . . do freely accept the above stock transferred to 
me / us . 


1 


As witness our hand the. .. . . . . . . . . . day of . . . . . . . . . . One thousand nine 
hundred and . . . . . . . 

Signed by the above - named Transferor . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . in the presence 
of * , 


Signed by the above - named Transferee . . . . . . . 


. . . . . . . . . in the 


presence 


. . . . . . (Buyer ) . 

Address . 
* Signature, Occupation and address of witnesses . 

FORM I 

(See Rule 14 ) 
Form of Indorsement for renewal of a stock certificate 
Received in lieu hereof a renewed stock certificate of the . . . . . . . . . . . . . . per 
cent. Compensation Bonds of. . . 

. . . . for Rs. . . . . . . . . . . in the name 
of . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . with interest payable at . . . . . . . . . . . . Treasury . 

Signature of the registered holder /duly authorised representative of (name 
of registered holder ) . . . . . . 


FORM J . 

( See Rule 14 ) 
Form of Indorsement for sub - division of a stock certificate 
Received in lieu of this stock certificate . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . stock certificates for 
Rs. , , . . . . . . . . . respectively of the . . . . . . . . . . per cent. Compensation Bonds 
of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .with interest payable at . . . . . . . . . . Treasury . 

Signature of the registered holder / duly authorised representative of (name 
of registered holder ) . . . . . . . 


FORM K 

( See Rule 14 ) 
Form of Indorsement for consolldation of stock certificatos 
Received in lieu of stock certificates Nos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . for Rs. . . . . . . . . . . res 
pectively of the . . . . . . . . . . . . . . per cent. Compensation Bonds of . . . 
a stock rertificate for Rs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . of the . . . . . . . . . .per cent. Compensation 
Bonds of . . . . . . . . . .with interest payable at. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Treasury . 

Signature of the registered holder / duly authorised representative of (name 
of registered holder ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

[No. 7 ,5 ( 58 ) - BI / 55.] 
K . C . DAS, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

PATENTS AND DESIGNS 
New Delhi, the 16th May 1956 


S .R . O . 1197. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 72 of the Indian 
Patents and Designs Act, 1911 ( II of 1911) , the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendment in the notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry , No. S . R . O . 681, dated the 
23rd March , 1955, namely : - 

In the said notification , after item ( 23 ) , the following item shall be added , 
namely : - - 

( 24 ) . The Secretary , Councils of the University Colleges of Science and 
Technology , Calcutta ." 

[No. 58 ( 2 ) - TMP /51. ] 
J. N . DUTTA , Dy . Secy. 


792 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 26, 1988 


[ Part 


Salec 8 


New Delhi, the 18th May 1956 
S . R . O . 1198. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 read with sub 
section ( 2 ) of section 16 of the Essential Commodities Act , 1955 (No. 10 of 1955 ) 
the Central Government hereby makes the following further amendment in the 
Cotton Textiles (Control ) Order , 1948, namely : 

In the said Order , in sub - clause ( i) of sub - clause (2A ) of clause 12 , after the 
word "have been installed " the words " or commenced working" shall be inserted . 

[ No. 8 (3 ) -CT( A ) /55 - 7.] 
New Delhi, the 26th May 1958 
S . R . O . 1199. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 , read with sub 
section ( 2 ) of Section 16 of the Essential Commodities Act , 1955 (No. 10 of 1955 ) , 
the Central Government hereby makes the following further amendments in 
the Cotton Textiles ( Control) Order, 1948 , namely : 

In the said Order , after sub -Clause (4 ) , of clause 12 the following shall be 
ingerted , namely : 

“ ( 5 ) No person shall acquire or instal any spindle to be worked by power as 
defined in clause ( g ) of Section 2 of the Factories Act, 1948 (LXIII of 1948 ) , 
except with the permission in writing of the Textile Commissioner , 

( 6 ) In granting or refusing permission under sub - clause (5 ) , the Textile 
Commissioner shall have regard to the following matters, namely : 

( a ) the requirements of yam in India ; 
( b ) the size of the undertaking; 
( c ) the nature of the preparatory and other machines already installed in 

the undertaking ; 
( d ) the necessity for training persons or rehabilitating persons in the 

spinning industry . 
( 7 ) Any person having in his possession any spindle which he is not entitled 
to work or cause or permit to be worked in accordance with sub - clause ( 5 ) shall 
forthwith report the fact to the Textile Commissioner and shall take such action 
as to its sealing or storage as the Textile Commissioner may direct." 

[No. 8 ( 3) -CT ( A ) /55 - 8.] 
V . V. NENE , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 21st May 1956 
S . R . O . 1200 — In cxervise of the powers conferred by Clause (b ) of sub - section ( 2 ) of section 6 
of the Forward Contracts (Regulation ) Act, 1952 (LXXIV of 1952 ) read with Article 64 of the 
Articles of Association of the Spices and Oilseeds Exchange Limited , Sangli, (hereinafter referred 
to as Exchange) the Central Government hereby appoints cach of the persons specified in column 
2 of the table annexed hereto on the Board of Directors of the Exchange to represent interests 
specified in the corresponding entry in column 3 of the table . 

TABLE 


Column. I 
S . No . 


Column 2 
Name 


Column 3 
Interest represented 


1 


I Shri A .D . Dave, B . Com , A .C .A , I. R . S., CentralGovernment, 

Inspecting Officer, Forward Markets 

Commission , Bombay 
Shri N . K . Kulkarni, Professor of Eco 

nomics , Willingdon College, Sangli. 
3 Shri M . K . Gupte, General Manager , The Interests not directly represented through 
Sanglu Bank Limited , Sangit. 

the membership of the Exchange. 
4 Shri Vasantrao G . Patil, Chairman , Agri 

cultural Produce Market Committee , 
Sangli. 


[No. F . 30 / 91/ 55 - I. P . ( B ). ] 
P . V . S . SARMA , Dy. Secy . 


· Part 


TAT CA 


TID OF INDIX , 


2015 1088 


793 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi- 2 , the 17th May 1956 
S . R . O . 1201. . - The following draft of a further amendment in the Drugs Rules, 
1945 , which the Central Government, after consultation with the Drugs Technical 
Advisory Board , proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 
12 and 33 of the Drugs Act, 1940 (XXIII of 1940 ) , is published , as required by the 
said sections, for the information of persons likely to be affected thereby, and 
notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or 
after the 20th August, 1956. 

2 . Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with res 
pect to said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the Central 
Government. 

Draft Amendment 
At the end of item 9 of Schedule C ( 1 ) to the said Rules, the following shall 
be added , namely : -- 
“ ( 12 ) Gramicidin ." 

[ No. F .1 - 51 /55 - D .] 
T . V. ANANTANARAYANAN , Under Secy . 


New Delhi- 2 , the 19th May 1956 
S . R . O . 1202 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 
4 and sub - section ( 1 ) of section 23 of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act, 
1954 ( 37 of 1954 ) , the Central Government, after consultation with the Central 
Committee for Food Standards, hereby makes the following further amendment 
to the Prevention of Food Adulteration Rules , 1955 , the same having been 
previously published as required by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 23 of the said 
Act, namely : 

Amendment 
For sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 1 of the said Rules, the following sub -rule shall be 
substituted , namely : 
“ ( 3 ) The rules other than those contained in Part III - Appendix B - item 

A . 12 - Margarine, Part VI and Part VII shall come into force on the 
date of their publication in the Official Gazette, the rules contained 
in Part III - Appendix B item A . 12 -Margarine, shall come into force 
on the first day of June, 1956 and the rules contained in Part VI 
and Part VII shall come into force on the first day of October , 1956 " , 

[ No. P . F . A ./ F . 14 - 35 / 56 - PH . ] 
J. N . SAKSENA , Dy, Secy . 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 

( Transport Wing ) 

PORTS 

New Delhi, the 15th May 1956 
S . R . O . 1203. - In pursuance of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 6 of the Bombay Port 
Trust Act, 1879 ( Bombay Act VI of 1879 ) , the Central Government hereby pub 
Hshes the following return received from the Municipal Secretary , Bombay 
Municipal Corporation , namely : -- - 
Return showing the name of the Councillor elected by the Municipal Cor 

poration of Greater Bombay , in accordance with the provisions of the 
Bombay Port Trust Act, 1879 to be a member of the Board of Trustees 
of the Port of Bombay in place of Shri Jamnadas K . Kothari, 
Tesigned . 


Date of clection 
7th May 1956 


Name of gentleman elected 
shri Dahyabhai V . Patel 

[No. 8 - C - PI (44) / 68 . ] 
K . NARAYANAN , Under Secy . 


754 


THE GAZEED OF INDIA , MAY 


1968 


. . 


. 


( Transport Wing ) 
New Delhi, the 21th May 1956 


S . R . O . 1204. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 3 ) of section 
1 of the Road Transport Corporations Act, 1950 ( 64 of 1950 ) , the Central Gov 
ernment hereby appoints the 1st day of June, 1956 , as the date on which the said 
Act shall come into force in the State of Orissa . 

[No. 28 - T ( 1 ) / 56 . ] 
A . S . BHATNAGAR , Under Secy .. 


- - - - - -- 


-- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND POWER 

New Delhi, the 20th May 1956 
S . R . O . 1205 . — In pursuance of sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 48 of Order XXI of the First Scheduld 
the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 ( V of 1908) , the Central Governmenthereby appoints the officer 
specified in column I of the table below as officers to whom notices of orders attaching the salaries, 
and allowances of the officers specified in the corresponding entries in column 2 of the said table 
shall be sent. 


TABLE 


Officers to whom notice should be sent 


Officers whose salaries are attached . 


(1) Ministry of Irrigation and Power. 
Accountant Gencral Central Revenues , New Gazetted Officers in the Ministry of Irri 
Delhi. 

gation and Power. 
Under Secretary ( Administration ) in the Ministry Non -Gazetted Officers in the Ministry of 
of Irrigation and Power . 

Irrigation and Power . 
( 2 ) Central Water and Power Commission 

(Water Wing ). 
Accountant General Central Revenues , New Gazetted Officers . 

Delhi. 
Administrative Officer . . . . . Non -Gazetted Officers, 

(3) Central Water and Power Commission 

( Power Wing ), 
Accountunt General Central Revenues , New Gazetted Officers. 

Delhi, 
Assistant Administrative Officer . . . Non -Gazetted Oficers . 

(4 ) Office of the Chief Engineer Hirakud 

Dam Project. 
Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer , Gazetted Officers . 

Hirakud Dam Project . 
Personal Assistant to the Chief Engincer, Hirakud Non -Gazetted Officers . 
Dam Project, 

(5) Office of the Secretary , Hirakud Central 

Board . 
Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer Gazetted Officer . 

Hirakud Dam Project. 
Secretary , Hirakud Conſrol Board , , 

. Non -Gazetted Officers . 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


(No . 21 ( 10)/56 -Amd . 11.) 
R . R . BAHI, Jt. S :cy. 


PMH 


ME ALL OF INDIA ,WY PRO 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 

New Delhi, the 17th May 1956 
S . R . O . 1206 . - In pursuance of sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 48 of Order XXI of the First 
Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 ( V of 1908 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints the officers specified in column 1 of the Table below as 
officers to whom notices of orders attaching the salaries and allowances of the 
officers specified in the corresponding entries in column 2 of the said table shall 
be sent. 

TABLE 


Officers to whom notice should be sent. 


Officers whose salaries and allowances are 
attached . 

2 


I 


I, Accountant General Central 

Revenues , New Delhi, 
2 . Under Secretary ( Estab ishment- 2 ), 

Ministry of Education , 


Gazetted Officer in the Ministry of 
Education , 
Non -Gazetted Officers in the Ministry 
of Education . 

- - - . 
[ No. F .26 -11/56 - A .2 . ) 
G . F . LAKHANI, Dy. Secy. 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 

New Delhi, the 17th May 1956 
S . R . O . 1207 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( XIV 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
All India Industrial Tribunal (Colliery Bisputes ) , Calcutta , in the matter of an 
application under section 33A of the said Act from Shri Bistoo Pada Chatterjee 
of Mundulpur Colliery . 
ALL INDIA INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (COLLIERY DISPUTES ) , CALCUTTA 

APPLICATION No . 3 OF 1956 u / s. 33A 

PRESENT 
Shri J. N . Majumdar - Chairman , 
Shri S . P . Chopra — Member . 
Shri T . N . Mallappa — Member . 

PARTIES 
Shri Bistoo Pada Chatterjee , Mundulpur Colliery , C / o . Rabin Chatterjee , 
P .O . Nandi, Distt. Burdwan - Applicant 

Versus 
Mundulpur Coal Co. Ltd ., Mundulpur Colliery , P .O . Nandi, Distt. 
Burdwan - Opposite Party . 

APPEARANCE 
Shri Kalyan Roy — For Applicant. 
M . E . F . Bloom Field , Manager , Mundulpur Colliery , Mundulpur Coal Co . 
Ltd . - For Opposite Party . 

AWARD 

Dated , the 24th day of April , 1956 
This is an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, by 
Bistoo Pada Chatterjee who was a tub checker in the respondent colliery , Hís 
complaint is that by their letter on thc 4th November, 1955 the company charged 
him for having made a false report of loaded tubs. He replied to the charge by 
his letter of the 5th November, 1955 explaining the circumstances under which 
he reported about the excess tubs but without holding any enquiry the respon 
dents by their letters of the 8th and 15th November , 1955 terminated his services . 


796 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 28 , 1966 


[PARI II - SEC . 8 


with effect from the 5th of February , 1956 without obtaining permission of this 
Tribunal under section 33 of the Act . This was done because he was an active 
member of the Union and his brother happened to be the leader of the Union . 

The respondents case is that on receipt of a report from the pit in - charge of 
the colliery that a false report was made by the applicant about loaded tubs, 
the management made " some enquiry " and thercafter issued a charge sheet. 
The explanation by the applicant was not satisfactory and it actually amounted 
to admission of the dishonesty with which he was charged , and in view of the 
admission there was no need for further enquiry . The respondents deny that 
there was any intention on their part to victimise the applicant. 

Admittedly no permission was taken from this Tribunal as is required under 
section 33 of the Tribunal Disputes Act , and therefore we are required to go 
into the merits of the application under section 33A of the Act. 

The charges are contained in the letter of the 4th November , 1955 which reads 
as follows: 
" You were in duty in 1st Relay on 31st October , 1955 in East Section and 

from your raising report it is found that you have reported a raising. 
of 47 tubs from your Section ( 34 from Gorakshpur Labour and 13 
from Pickminers) . The miners Hari and Bhupati say that they 
haye loaded only one tub each on that day , whereas you have shown 
2 tubs each against their names . They further alleged that you told 
them about increasing their tubs and that the extra money should 
be paid to you . In order to synchronise your fault you have shown 
2 tubs excess in tramming as well, 48 as against as per statement 

of trammer . 
Please explain why your services should not be terminated for this dis 

honesty in over reporting the tubs and putting company to loss." 
Your reply to this above should be submitted within 24 hours of receipt of 

this letter and pending enquiry your services shall remain suspended 

with immediate effect." 
His explanation referred to above is contained in the letter of the 5th of 
November, 1955 which also runs as follows: 
" In reply to your letter No . MPC / II / 55, dated 4th November, 1955 , I beg 

to state that in 1st Relay on 31st October , 1955 I was 111 . 
The miners Hari and Bhupati told me that there are two extra tubs in the 

section and they will load it. They wished to load the extra tubs 
that is why I gave permission to load the said tubs. After I did 
not see whether they loaded the tub or not. According to their 
words I submitted my raising reports and thought if they do not load 
the tubs next day I shall deduct it from the raising report when the 
Trammers went in the section for tramming the tubs it was about to 
end the 1st Relay . It is my duty to enquire trammers work and the 
tubs whether it is actually loaded or not . Due to misunderstanding 
I gave the trammers report also including extra two empty tubs 
which was set on the line. Accordingly I handed over the charge 

to the tub checker of 2nd Relay of East Section . 
[sue to my illness I came out from the working section a bit earlier . My 

understanding was if the pick miner do not load the tubs and the 

tubs were not trammed it will be adjusted next day . 
I do not do it intentionally , I do not tell the said two pick miners that 

the extra two tubs are in the raising report in your name. 
This is the fact . I am quite innocent. So I request your honour to judge 

my case . On my part I am not guilty . My bread is on your hand . 

If you say that I am guilty I have nothing to say." 
The charge against the applicant was based on the statements made by the 
two miners Hari and Bhupati that they loaded only one tub each on that day 
whereas in the report two tubs were shown against each of them . They were 
also alleged to have stated that the applicant told them about increasing the 
tubs and the extra money should be paid to him . In his explanation the applicant 
stated that these two miners told him that there are two extra tubs in the 
section and they wished to load the extra tubs but as he was ill he left the 
working section earlier believing their statement and gave permission to load the 
said two tubs and in the circumstances in his raising report he stated that two 


PART III SEC . 8 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 26 , 1958 


797 


tubs were loaded by each . He thought that if they did not load the tubs next 
day he would deduct it from the raising report the next day. It is difficult to 
understand how the explanation offered could be interpreted as an admission of 
dishonesty on the part of the applicant. It is clear that it is on the statement 
of the miners Hari and Bhupati the guilt or otherwise of the applicant has got 
to be determined . In the circumstances it was incumbent upon the respondents 
to hold an enquiry in the presence of the applicant and these two persons should 
have been called during the enquiry to make their statements in his presence so 
that the applicant might have had an opportunity to cross - examinc them but no 
such opportunity was given and therefore the enquiry cannot be held to have 
been a bona fide one and the termination of the service under these circum 
stances was obviously wrong . On the facts of the case an adverse inference 
regarding the motive of the respondents would not be unreasonable . 

We must therefore hold that the dismissal was not justificd and the applicant 
should be reinstated and paid all his wages from the time of dismissal till he 
reports himself for duty . We direct that he should report himself for duty 
wſthin 15 days from the date of the publication of this Award . 

( Sd .) J . N . MAJUMDAR , Chairman . 

(Sd .) S . P . CHOPRA, Member . 
( Sd.) T . N . MALLAPPA , Member . 

[No. LRII -55 - 2 (2 ) / 56 - 1.) 


S .R .O . 1208 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award 
of the All India Industrial Tribunal ( Colliery Disputes ) , Calcutta , in the matter 
of an application under section 33A of the said Act from Shri Habu Das of 
Kankanee Colliery . 
ALL INDIA INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL ( COLLIERY DISPUTES ) , CALCUTTA 
APPLICATION No. 61 OF 1955 v /s . 33A OF THE ACT 

PRESENT 
Shri J. N . Majumdar - Chairman . 
Shri S . P . Chopra - Member . 
Shri T . N . Mallappa — Member . 

PARTIES 
Shri Habu Das, Mechanical Fitter, Kankanee Colliery , C / o . Eastern Coal 

Co ., Colllery Workers Union , P .O . Bhowra , Dt. Manbhum ( Bihar ) 
Applicant . 

Versus 
The Manager, Kankanee Colliery , P .O . Bànsjora , Dt. Manbhum ( Bihar) 

Opposite Party , 


EARANCES 
Shri Lalit Burman , For Applicant. 
Shri K , B , Bose - For Opponents . 

AWARD 

Dated the 24th April , 1956 
This is an application under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
by Habu Das, Mechanical Fitter . It is alleged by the applicant that he was 
verbally transferred to a colliery belonging to a Company other than Bhowra 
Kankanee Collieries Ltd ., to which the Kankanee Colliery belongs and that as 
he objected to the transfer , he was not given work at the colliery where he was 
working after 31st October, 1955 in spite of repeated verbal petitions culminating 
in a registered letter sent on the 21st November , 1965 to which a reply was not 
sent by the management. The applicant further states that he was debarred 
from work for his trade union activities and that a change in the conditions of 
service without taking the permission of the Tribunal amounts to a contraven 
tion of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act . . 


The opposite party has replied that the Colllery is not a party to the dispute 
& g name of the company does not appear in the Gazette of India setting out the 
names of the collieries who are parties to the adjudication , that the applicant 


768 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 26, 1956 


(PART IL- Sxc. 


has no case as he wilfully disobeyed a legal order of the management transfer 
ring him to another colliery under the same management, and that there can be 
no question of any contravention of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act . 

This opposite party as well as certain other collieries are under the manage 
ment agency of M / s. Karam Chand Thapar & Bros., and the question has been 
raised whether the Managing Agent can transfer the employce of one colliery 
to another colliery under his agency or the power should be exercised only by 
the company as different from the Managing Agent. It is not necessary to discuss 
this question at length as on the forts placed before us , we come to the con 
clusion that the applicant was not given proper order of transfer and sufficient 
notice to report at the colliery to which he was transferred . The applicant was 
told about his transfer order verbally and there is no proof that any written order 
was communicated to the applicant. It is admitted that the distance between 
Kankanee Collieries and the Colliery to which the workman was transferred is 
70 miles . If the workman has to shift from one place to another with family and 
bag and baggage, he naturally requires reasonable time to do so . It also appears 
when an objection was raised by the workman to his transfer, he was not given 
an opportunity to explain his case . He was just not allowed to work in the 
Colliery where he had all along been working and employed and told - that he 
was no longer in the employment of colliery , We do not consider that the 
management acted properly in this case when it is not denied that the applicant 
made verbal protests at his transfer and the management would not even care 
to reply to the petition dated 21st November 1955 , the receipt of which is admit 
ted . We are satisfied that there has been a contravention of Section 33 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act. 

In the result, the company is directed to reinstate the workman at the 
Kankanee Colliery within a fortnight from the date of the publication of the 
Award and pay him back wages as from 1st November , 1955 . 

(Sd.) J. N . MAJUMDAR , Chairman . 

( Sd .) T . N , MALLAPPA , Member, 
I agree with the Anal conclusion . I have, however , expressed my views in 
my report about the right of the Managing Agents to transfer which may be 
taken as my views on the subject . 

(Sd.) S . P . CHOPRA , Member . 

[No. LRII - 55 - 2 ( 2 ) / 56 - II. ] 


S . R . O . 1209. In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award 
of the All India Industrial Tribunal ( Colliery Disputes ) , Calcutta , in the matter 
of an application under section 33A of the said Act from Shri K . P . Mitra and 
Shri Santi Prakash of Putkee Colliery . 
ALL INDIA INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL ( COLLIERY DISPUTES ) , CALCUTTA 
APPLICATION No . 29 OF 1955 (U /s. 33 - A OF THE ACT) 

PRESENT : 
Shri J. N . Majumdar — Chairman . 
Shri S . P . Chopra , Membet . 
Shri T . N . Mallappa , Member. 

PARTIES 
Shri K . P . Mitra , Assistant Despatch Clerk and Shri Santi Prakash , Lathe 

man of Putkee Colliery , P . O . Kasunda , Dt. Manbhum , Bihar 
Applicants . 

Versus 
The Management of Putkee Colliery , P . O . Kasunda , Manbhum , Bihar 

Opposite Party . 


APPEARANCES 
Shri D . L . Sen Gupta - Applicants. 
Shri P . Mandal, instructed by Shri A . K Sarkar with Shri M . L . Pandit 

for the Opposite Party . 


PART 11 – 8bc. 8] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 26, 1958 


799 


- 


- - 


- 


AWARD 

Dated , the 24th day of April 1956 
This is an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
by two worlmen helonging to Putkee Colliery. The application is filed under 
the following circumstances as they appear from the application : 

Putkee Colliery originally belonged to Messrs . Eastern Coal Co . Ltd . It was 
purchased along with three others by Messrs. Bhowra Kankance Collieries Ltd . 
from the Eastern Coal Co . Ltd . and the management was taken over in January 
1955 . Messrs Karam Chand Thappar & Bros. Ltd ., are the Managing Agents of this 
Company as well as certain other companies with which we are not directly 
concerned here It appears that there were certain differences between the 
workmen of the Putkee Colliery and Messrs . Bhowra Kankanee Collieries Ltd . 
over the conditions of service that should govern these workmen . The workmen 
erved a strike notice on the 24th December 1954 but ultimately the differences 
rere amicably settled by means of an agreement under which M / s . Bhowra 
Kankanee Collieries Ltd . agreed to abide by the certified Standing Orders in 
force . The relevant order with which we are concerned is Standing Order 26 
which is as follows: 
" 26 . All workmen are liable to be transferred from one department to an 

other or from one station to another or from one Colliery to another 
under the same Management provided such transfer does not cause 
any prejudice to their wages and other conditions of service and 

provided that reasonable notice is given of such transfer ." 
Applicant No. 1 was transferred on the 26th July 1955 to Central Sounda 
Collieries Ltd . under the management of the United Collieries Ltd . of which the 
Managing Agents are the same M / s . Karam Chand Thapar & Bros. Ltd . Appli 
cant No. 1 did not join and ultimately expressed inability to accept the transfer . 
He prayed for the withdrawal of the same. M / s . Bhowra Kankanee Collieries by 
their letter dated the 22nd August 1955 directed him to proceed to Central Sounda 
Colliery immediately and to stop work in the Putkee Colliery . 

Applicant No. 2 was also by order dated 30th July 1955 transferred from the 
Putkee Colliery to Madhuband Colliery belonging to Jharia and Ranigunge Col 
lieries Ltd , of which the Managing Agents were the same M / s. Karam Chand Thapar 
& Bros. Ltd . There was some correspondence between the Applicant No . 2 and 
the Bhowra Kankanee Collieries Ltd . and the company by its letter dated 17th 
August 1955 asked him to report for duty to the Manager of Madhuband Colliery 
the next day failing which he would render him liable for disciplinary action . 
Applicant No. 2 was not prepared to accept the transfer order and the company 
( Bhowra Kankanee Collicry ) by letter dated 23rd August 1955 asked him to 
stop his work in the Putkee Colliery . 

The applicants submit that the transfer is violation of Standing Order 28 
already cited and pray for the retention of their services in the Putkee Colliery 
with full wages and amenities for the period starting from the dates when they 
were told not to work in the Putkee Colliery . 

The Company Aled a written statement in which they quoted a letter from 
the office of the Tribunal which , when an application under section 33 was pre 
ferred by the company , informed the company that the application could not be 
entertained as its name did not appear in the Reference and submitted that by 
returning the application the Tribunal had made it clear that the company was 
not a party to the dispute and that in any event the suspension was bona fide . 


In the reply to the statement of the company the applicants referred to a 
further letter from the office of the Tribunal which called upon the company to 
represent their application under section 33 and submitted that the misinterpre 
tation of the earlier letter from the office was intentional. 


To this the company Alcd a further reply statement in which they refuted the 
allegations of the applicants about the second letter from the office of the Tribunal 
and contended that the company was within its right to transfer the workmed 
from one colliery to another under the same Managing Agency . 


The two points that arise for consideration are: 

( 1) whether the company is not a party to the dispute ; and 
( 2 ) whether the company is within its right in transferring the workmen . 


800 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 26 , 1958 


[PART 1 - Src, 3 


Transfer is an inherent right of the management; but no transfer can be 
effected where it is in violation of a certified Standing Order relating to transfers . 

As for the objection taken by the company that it is not a party to the dispute 
we are satisfied that there is no substance . The company was asked to re - present 
its application under Section 33 and in the further reply statement there is no 
explanation as to the failure on the part of the company to re - present the appli 
cation when it was called upon by the office to do so. Even otherwise 
M / s . Bhowra Kankanee Collieries Ltd . has been appearing in the Main Reference 
through the Indian Mining Association and has taken part in the proceedings. 
The order of Reference S . R . O . 691, dated 22nd February 1954 refers to the dispute 
" between the employers in relation to the coal mines specified in Schedule I and 
their workmen " . The stress is , therefore , on the coalmines which still continues 
to be Si. No . 376 described as " Pootkee , Kasunda , P . O ." . What has happened is 
only a transfer of ownership which does not really affect the issue before us. 

As for the point that the company can transfer the workmen to any collier 
under the same Managing Agency , it turns upon the interpretation of the wor 
"Management" in Standing Order 26 . The company wants to argue that the 
word " management" would cover the Managing Agents. It is needless to labour 
the point as there is no doubt that " management can only refer to the company 
which is a legal entity and not to their Managing Agents. A single Managing 
Agent, as we often see , can take up the managements of a large number of com 
panies . But the managing agent gets his power to manage each company from 
the owner of that company and cannot mix up the affairs of one company with 
that of others. 


Rule 26 referred to above states that all workmen are liable to be transferred 
from one colliery to another under the same management. This could only mean 
that the workman can be transferred from one colliery to another under the 
management of that company , M / s . Bhowra Kankanee Collieries Ltd ., whoever 
its managing agents are and not from one colliery of that company to another 
colliery of a different company merely because the managements of both the 
companies are in the hands of the same managing agency . 


Under the Industrial Employment ( Standing Orders) Act under which Stand 
ing Orders are certified , " Employer " means the owner of an industrial establish 
ment and inclụdes any person responsible to be owner for the supervision and 
control of the industrial establishment. The Managing Agents being responsible 
to the owner (company ) for supervision and control of the establishment cannot 
do any act which the owner himself is prohibited from doing. In other words 
if Bhowra Kankanee Collieries Ltd . itselt cannot transfer its workmen to some 
other company which is not under their management, their Managing Agents 
cannot transfer the workers of the Company to some other Company of which 
they happen to be Managing Agents. 

We are , therefore , satisfied that there is no substance in the contention that 
the Managing Agents can seek to exercise the power which under the rule is 
conferred only on the " Management" which can only refer to the company . 

In the result we pass an award setting aside the orders of transfer and direct 
reinstatement of the two workmen with full wages and amenities for the period 
starting from the dates of their suspension till they join their duty . The work 
men will report for duty within a fortnight from the date of the publication of 
the award . Awarded accordingly . 

( Sd.) J. N . MAJUMDAR , Chairman 

( Sd.) S . P . CHOPRA , Member. 

( Sd .) T . N . MALLAPPA , Member. 
ALL INDIA INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL ( COLLIERY DISPUTES ) CALCUTTA 

APPLICATION No. 29 OF 1955 ( U / s 33 - A OF THE ACT) 

Note of dissent by Shri S. P , Chopra, Member 
The facts of the case have been clearly set out in the majority award and 
do not need repetition . Apart from the preliminary point regarding jurisdiction , 
the main point for consideration is whether the word Management as found 
in Rule 26 means the company or the Agents to whom the management of the 
company is entrusted . According to the majority report there can be no differ 
ence between the Company and the management, I seem to differ on this inter 
pretation . 


case have from the nether the won the marant be this inter 


PART 11 – 82 . 8 ] 


THE GAZITE OF INDIA , MAY 28 , 1960 


801 


The word Management means the organisation that is responsible for the 
management of the company . A company registered under the Indian Companies 
Act is a legal entity but has no life. It cannot function its own . Of necessity , 
therefore, all actions for and on behalf of the company have to be done , through 
some agents . It may be through the Board of Directors , or through the Manag 
ing Agents or even a Managing Director or Manager . Under the Indian Com 
panies Act Section 2 (9A ) a Managing Agent has been defined as a person , firm , 
or company entitled to the management of the whole affairs of a company by 
virtue of an agreement with the company, and under the control and direction of 
the directors except to the extent, if any , otherwise provided for in the agree 
ment and includes any person firm or company occupying such position by what 
ever name, 

As all persons dealing with a company are deemed to have knowledge of the 
Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association of the Company , the 
workmen are aware of the fact that the company is being managed by the 
Managing Agents . 

The employment of the workman is a colliery belonging to a company is under 
contract the terms of which include the Standing Orders . The Standing Orders 
are binding both on the company and the workman . One of the clauses of the 
Standing Orders is Rule 28 which says 
" All workmen are Hable to be transferred from one department to another 

or from one station to another or from one colliery to another under 
the same Management provided such transfer does not cause any 
prejudice to their wages and other conditions of service and provided 

that reasonable notice is given of such transfer ." 
It has been suggested that the Management cannot do what the company is 
not entitled to . This position in my opinion is not quite correct. The contract 
of employment which is governed by the Standing Orders under consideration is 
a tripartite agreement, between the workman , the company and the management 
in this case the Managing Agents. If the firm of Managing Agents are Managing 
another company which has collierics , this other company would have a similar 
agreement whereby the Managing Agents can transfer a workman from one 
colliery to another under their management. This they can do in view of the 
powers vested in them by company on the one hand and the employment con 
tracts (which include the Standing Orders ) on the other . There is therefore no 
conflict between the company and the Management . 

The Managing Agency system has a long history in this country which does 
not need recapitulation . Whether it should continue or not is a different matter . 
While it is in existence , this system has to be taken notice of. This is an accepted 
form of agency for management. The firms of Managing Agents are professional 
experts who have taken upon themselves the responsibility to manage a number 
of companies . It may be mentioned that the workmen do not necessarily suffer 
due to the existence of a provision whereby they are transferable from one com 
pany to another , In a bigger organisation , there are greater opportunities for 
experience and promotion . To safeguard against any hardship that may arise on 
this score , Rule 26 of the Standing Order provides that on a transfer the condi 
tions of service shall not be adversely affected . If by any chance they are, & 
transfer cannot be made. 

Now reverting to the Standing Orders , it is found that a number of clauses 
contain the word company and not Management . For instance see clauses 11 
and 19 as against clauses 21, 22 and 26 of the Standing Orders . If it was the 
intention that the term Management and the term " Company should be synoni 
mous such a distinction would not have been made. 

The applicant in paras . 3 ( d ) and ( e ) has himself mentioned that an attempt 
was made by means of strike notice to restrain the opposite party from trans 
ferring the workmen of the Kankanee Colliery to Collieries under the manage 
ment of Messrs. K . C . Thapar & Bros. Ltd ., but not belonging to Messrs . Bhowra 
Kankanee Collierles Ltd . In terms of the settlement as given in Annexure B to 
the settlement, however, this demand was dropped . The conduct of the workmen 
substantiates the contention of the opposite party . 

Since the hearing of this case , another case has been heard the report of which 
has been signed by me. I have given my views on this subject there and the 
same should apply here also . 

Therefore the Managing Agents were within their rights to transfer a work 
man from one colliery under their management to another even though the two 
belonged to two different companies . 


802 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 28, 1986 


PART II Sue , 


Regarding the question whether this Collicry is a party to the dispute I agree 
with the arguments and conclusions in the main award . 

The third point in this case is whether the transfer was bona fide. In view 
of the written statement of the applicant there is no doubt that he was given 
sufficient opportunities to report himself for duty at the Colliery to which he had 
been transferred . He had gone out of his way to refrain from reporting for 
duty . 

In the result I am of opinion that the workman has lost his employment by 
abstaining from reporting for duty and there is no question of the employers 
having contravened S . 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act. The application under 
S . 33 - A should , therefore, be dismissed . 

(Sd.) S . P . CHOPRA , Member . 

[No . LRII -55 - 2 ( 2 ) / 56 - III. ) 


New Delhi, the 18th May 1956 
S . R . O , 1210 . — In pursuance of paragraph 3 ( 1 ) (b ) of the Employees Provider 
Funds Scheme, 1952 , the Central Government hereby nominates Shri O . 
Ramadorai, Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Finance to be a member of the Board of Trustees ( Central Board ) constituted 
under the said Scheme in the vacancy caused by the resignation of Shri N . V . 
Venkataraman and directs that the following amendment shall be made in the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour No. S . R . O . 1881, 
dated the 31st October 1952, namely : 

In the said notification , for the entry " 4 . Shri N . V . Venkataraman , Deputy 
Secretary to the Government of India , Ministry of Finance , New Delhi" , the 
following entry shall be substituted . namely : 
" 4 . Shri O . V . Ramadorai, Deputy Secretary to the Government of India , 
Ministry of Finance , New Delhi," 

[No. PF .33 ( 16 ) /56. ) 


New Delhi, the 19th May 1956 
S . R . O . 1211. . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947 ) , read with sub - section ( 3 ) of section 23A of the Industrial Dis 
putes ( Appcllate Tribunal) Act , 1950 (XLVIII of 1950 ) , the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tribunal, Lucknow . 
IN THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, LUCKNOW 

PRESENT 
Sri Ilias Ahmad - Chairman . 
Misc . CASE No. III - C -314 /55 u / s 23 . 
CGIT - 165 /55. 
Sri Girdhar Gopal Tandon Cashier Allahabad Bank Ltd . Allahabad 
Applicant. 

Versus 
M / s The Allahabad Bank Ltd ., 6 , Exchange Place, Calcutta - - Opposite party . 

DECISION 

Dated the 22nd March 1956 
This is an application under section 23 of the Industrial Disputes (Appellate 
Tribunal) Act, 1950 . 

The applicant was working as a Cashier , Cantonment Branch , Meerut. Then 
he was transferred and posted as a Cashier - in - Charge City Office. Meerut. At 
this latter post the applicant was getting Rs. 18 per month as allowance . On 
the 4th of January , 1953, he was transferred to his first post which carried no 
allowance . So he has filed this application and allcges that this transfer means 
as alteration in the conditions of service which has been brought above without 
the permission of the Honourable Appellate Tribunal and therefore there has 
been a breach of the provisions of section 22 and he is entitled to the relief 
claimed . The relief claimed is that the opposite party should be directed to pay 
all the arrears . 


803 


- 


- 


PART 1 - SEC . 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 26, 1988 
= = 

- - - - -- - - 
The case of the opposite party is that the application is not entertainable as 
the applicant is not a party concerned to the appeal mentioned in the application 
namely Appeal No. III - C 59 /53 and that the application is very belated and there 
fore also is not entertainable. The further case of the opposite party is that the 
terms and the conditions of the service of the applicant specifically provide for 
his transfer from one Omco or Branch to another , and there were complaints 
against the applicant and so he was transferred which in no way means altera 
tion in the conditions of the services und thus there has been no breach of sec 
tion 22. It has also been asserted that the allowance of Rs. 18 was given because 
the applicant had to do extra work in bringing money every morning and return 
ing the same every evening which extra work is not involved at the post where 
he has been transferred and so there is no genuine cause for any grievance . 

There is on the record a copy of the Judgement of Appeal No. III - C - 59 / of 1953 
and I have gone through it. This appeal was filed by the opposite party against 
Sri B . N . Chaturvedi and there in the question was whether Sri B . N . Chaturvedi 
who had been dismissed should be reinstated or not. The Honourable Appellate 
Tribunal for very adequate reasons did not allow reinstatement but instead 

ranted compensation . The applicant can by no means be said a party concerned 
In this appeal. It is therefore clear that he has no right to Ale this application 
under section 23 as he is not a party concerned in the appeal, 

The applicant was transferred on the 4th of January , 1963, and this applica 
tion under section 23 was filed in September , 1955, that is more than two years 
and a half afterwards. It is true that the applicant was having some correspon 
dence . That, however , is no justification for considerably late Aling of this 
application . It may be said that the application has been filed too late to be 
entertained . 

Let us for a moment assume that this application under section 23 is enter 
tainable and sce its merits . There is not the least doubt that the conditions of 
the service of the applicant provide transfer from one Office or Branch to another. 
So the fact that the applicant has been transferred cannot be questioned as he 
could be transferred in due course and on the occasion in question was trans 
ferred as a result of various complaints against him . His complaint that he has 
been deprived of Rs. 18 per month can hardly be said to have any substance in 
it. He was getting Rs. 18 per month evidently for extra work which extra work 
ho would not have to do at the post to which he has been transferred . So the 
fact that he would not get this extra amount cannot be made a cause of com 
plaint. 

For the reasons given above I find no substance in this application under sec 
tion 23 and consequently it is rejected . 

( Sd .) ILIAS AHMAD , Chairman . 

[No . LR - 4 ( 20 ) / 58 - 1.] 


S . R . O . 1212 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947 ) , read with sub - section ( 3 ) of section 23A of the Industrial Dis 
putes (Appellate Tribunal ) Act, 1950 (XLVIII of 1950 ) , the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tribunal, Lucknow , 
IN THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , LUCKNOW 

PRESENT 
Shri Ilias Ahmed - Chairman . 

MISC . CASE No. III - C - 49 / 56 ( U / s 23 ) 
CGIT - 46 / 56 . 
Shri Banwari Lal Mehra , Victimised employee of the Central Bank of India . 

Ltd . Amritsar , s / o L . Gokhal Chand , Dhab Khatikan , Amritmr. . 
Applicant. 

Versus 
M / s., The Central Bank of India, Ltd ., Head Office, Fort, Bombay -- 
Opponents . 

DECISION 

Dated the 24th April, 1956 
This is an application under section 23 of the Industrial Disputes ( Appellate 
Tribunal ) Act, 1950 . Notice was sent to the applicant, informing him that the 
case was fixed for today . That notice has been served . Inspite of this fact 


804 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 26 , 1958 


( PART 11 -- Sec. 8 


neither the applicant is present nor any one on his behalf. On behalf of the 
opposite party Shri R . B . Oberoi, Chief Agent, is present. In these circumstances 
the only course open to me is to dismiss the application for default. The applicant 
is to bear his own costs and is to pay Rs. 50 as costs to the opposite party . This 
sum of Rs. 50 includes the sum of Rs. 25 awarded as costs on the last date . 

( Sd .) ILIAS AHMAD, Chairman . 

[No. LR - 4 ( 20 ) /56 -II.] 


S . R . O . 1213 . In pursuance of Section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
( XIV of 1947) read with sub - section ( 3 ) of section 23A of the Industrial Disputes 
( Appellate Tribunal) Act, 1950 (XLVIII of 1950 ) , the Central Government hereby 
publishes the following award of the Industrial Tribunal, Lucknow : 
IN THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, LUCKNOW 

PRESENT 
Shri Ilias Ahmed - Chairman , 
Misc. CASE No . III - C - 117 / 54 ( u / s 23 ) 
CGIT 63 /65. 
Shri A . N . Bhargava C / o U . P . Bank Employees Union , 28 / 96, Feelkhana , 
Kanpur - Applicant. 

Versus 
M / s. Hindustan Commercial Bank Ltd ., Birhana Road , Kanpur - Opponent. 

APPEARANCES " 
For the applicant - Shri V . N . Shekhri. 
For the opponent- Shri K . N . Bhatnagar . 

DECISION 

Dated the 21st April , 1958 
This is an application under section 23 of the Industrial Disputes (Appellate 
Tribunal) Act, 1960 . I may point out here that by mistake section 22 is mentioned 
in the application . 

The case of the applicant is that he was Internal Auditor and his services were 
terminated by retiring him on the 21st of November, 1952, on the allegation that 
he was 56 years of age but the fact was that he was not 55 . More than 4 months 
before he had submitted his college certificate according to which he was born 
on the 4th of July 1898 , and so should have been 55 on the 4th of July , 1953 . The 
age of retirement is 58 and he was made to retire even before completing 55. He 
had protested but it proved of no avail. So this application for setting aside of 
the illegal discharge, and for reinstatement with all the arrears of back salary 
and allowances . 

The case of the opposite party is that the applicant was an officer and his case 
is not covered by the provision of the Industrial Disputes Act and so his applica 
tion is not entertainable . The applicant at the time of his appointment furnished 
his date of birth as 21st of November , 1897 . So he was retired on the 21st of 
November , 1952, after completing 55 years of service. Reliance cannot be placed 
on the fact that the applicant now gives the date of birth as 4th of July , 1898 
as he has been giving different dates of birth at different places , for example it 
has turned out that in the Imperial Bank , where he was in the service before , 
he gave his date of birth as 4th of July , 1898 . In brief the applicant was made 
to retire according to the rules which were applicable and so his application 
should tail. 

The applicant was made to retire on the 21st of November , 1952. At that time 
he was Internal Auditor . He was transferred to this post on the 9th of August , 
1961. 

The preliminary objection raised on behalf of the opposite party is that when 
the applicant was nade to retire , he was an officer and not a workman and 
therefore his application is not maintainable . We have to decide this objection 
first and find out whether or not the application is entertainable . If he was an 
officer, it is not entertainable , if he was not, it is . 

It was contended on behalf of the opposite party that the applicant had 
directional and supervisory power and so he was an officer. In support of this 
contention reliance has been placed on the direction given by the applicant to the 


PART II – SIC. 8 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 26, 1988 


805 


Sub - Agent, Hindustan Commercial Bank Ltd ., Gorakhpur , and on various leave 
applications granted by him . The direction is dated the 6th of April, 1951, and 
applications are dated 30th March , 1951, 30th March , 1951, 2nd April, 1951, 7th 
February , 1951 and 3rd February 1951. " The direction order was given and the 
leave applications were disposed of by the applicant not as Internal Auditor 
but before he came to occupy this post . Therefore reliance cannot be placed on 
them . 

It has been held in 1952, II, L . L . J . page 479 that an Inspector is a workman , 
It was contended on behalf of the applicant that an Auditor is just like an Inspector . 
This contention has not been supported by any authority . Reliance has been 
placed also on 1954, I. L . L . J ., page 160 in which it was held that a Touring Auditor 
is a workman . If a Touring Auditor is a workman , by inference it can easily 
be said that an Internal Auditor is also a workman . 

In para . 3 and 4 of his affidavit of the 6th of December , 1955 the applicant 
has described his duties . He has said that he had no directional or controlling 
Nuties. He has also said that his duties were to audit and write our reports and 
submit them to the Bank which was purcly a clerical work . There is no reason 
for me not to accept these allegations as correct. 

For the reasons stated above I would therefore hold that the applicant was 
not an Oficer but only a workman and so his application is entertainable . 

The applicant at the time of his appointment in the concern of the opposite 
party gave his date of birth as 21st of November , 1897 , according to which he 
completed the age of 55 on 21st of November, 1952 , More than 4 months before 
he was made to retire he submitted a certificd copy from the entry in his College 
Register . From this copy it appears that in the College the date of his birth , was 
recorded as 4th of July , 1898 , according to which he completed the age of 55 years 
on the 4th of July , 1953 . Now the question is whether reliance should be placed 
on the date of birth as given by the applicant when he entered the service of the 
opposite party or on the date of birth as given in the College Register . I am 
inclined to the view that reliance should be placed on the latter rather on the 
former . The former evidently was given off hand . It may be pointed out here 
that the applicant was previously in the service of the Imperial Bank and there 
he gave the date of his birth as the 4th of July , 1898 . It may be concluded that 
while giving his date of birth either at the time of appointment in the opposite 
party s concern or at the time of appointment in the Imperial Bank , the applicant 
relied only on his memory which could and in all probability was faulty . I 
would , therefore , hold that reliance can be placed on the date of birth given in 
the College Register rather on the date of birth given at the time when the 
applicant was appointed in the concern of the opposite party . So he should have 
been retired on 4th July , 1953 And not on 21st November , 1952 , if he was to be 
retired at the age of 55 . It is, therefore , clear that he was made to retire a few 
months earlier . 

Reliance has been placed on behalf of the applicant on page 514 of the 
Shastri Award which runs as follows: 
" Agreeing with the directions given by the Sen Tribunal we direct that 

after the workman has reached the age of 55 years he may be retired 
after giving him two months notice in writing in case his efficiency 
is found by the employer to have been impaired subject to this rule 
and also subject to any rule under an existing pension fund the 
workman should not be compelled to retire before he is 55 years 

old . " 
It has been contended on behalf of the opposite party that the Shastri Award is 
dated 26th of March , 1953 and the applicant was retired before this date and so 
the direction of this award is not applicable to him . It has also been contended 
What the Sen Award had been declared invalid when the applicant was made to 
retire and so this award too cannot be made applicable to the case of applicant. 
I have no reason not to accept these contentions as correct. I may point out here 
that whichever date of birth is taken to be correct the applicant cannot be 
reinstated if he was to retire after completing 55 years of age , which is normal 
date of retirement. No doubt if it is taken that he should be made to retire after 
58 than he can be reinstated for a few months but I doubt whether he can be 
allowed to retire after completing 58 years of age. 

I think that the applicant should have been made to retire after completing 
the age of 55 from the point of view of the date of birth given in the College 
Register , that is he should have been made to retire on 4th July , 1953, and not 
on 21st November , 1952 . However , he cannot now be reinstated . Had this 
decision been made before 4th July, 1953, he should have been reinstated . 


806 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 28 , 1986 


[ PART 11 - SEC, 8 


The question now is what relief can be granted to the applicant. It seems 
to me proper to award him sulary with allowances from 21st November, 1952 to 
4th July , 1953 , as of this he has been unjustly and unnecessarily deprived . 


Accordingly this application is allowed to this extent that the applicant is to 
be paid his salary with allowances from 21st November , 1952 to 4th July , 1953. 
The rest of the prayer in this application is disallowed . The applicant is to get 
Rs, 100 as costs and the opposite party is to bear its own costs . 

(Sd .) ILIAS AHMAD , Chairman . 


[No. LR -4 ( 20 ) /56 - III. ] 
R . C . SAKSENA, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 19th May 1956 


S .R . O . 1214 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( 1 ) of article 258 
of the Constitution , the President hereby entrusts to the State Government of 
Bihar, with their consent, the functions of the Central Government under the 
Minimum Wages Act, 1948 ( XI of 1948 ) , in so far as these functions relate to 
review and revision of mininum rates of wages fixed under the said Act for 
employees employed in mica mines situated within the State of Bihar . 


[ No . LWI-I- 2 ( 1) 56 .] 
A , L . HANDA, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi-2 , the 10th May 1956 
S . R . O . 1215 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 9 
read with sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 10 of the Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules , 1951, 
and in supersession of the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Information and Broadcasting No. S . R . O . 874 , dated the 10th April, 1956 , the 
Central Government hereby re - appoints after consultation with the Central 
Board of Film Censors the following persons as members of the Advisory Panel 
of the said Board at Calcutta with effect from the dates indicated against their 
names : 

1 . Prof. Priyaranjan Sen , 1st March , 1956 . 
2. Shrimati Ayesha Ahmed , 5th March , 1956 . 

[No. 14 / 3 /1956 . ) 


ORDER 

New Delhi-2, the 19th May 1956 
S . R .O . 1216 . — The Central Government hereby: 


( a ) directs , in pursuance of the provisions of the Order of the Government 

of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No. S . R . O . 
3805 , dated the 26th December, 1955 and in modification of the 
Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Information 
and Broadcasting No, S . R . O . 560, dated the 23rd February , 1956 , that 
the Advisory Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors at Calcutta 

shall consist of 11 members with effect from the 26th May , 1956 . 
( b ) notifles for general information that the following members of the 

Advisory Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors at Calcutta 


PART IIT SEC. 8 ] THÉ GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 26, 1956 

807 

- - - - - - - - 
retired under sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 10 of the Cinematograph ( Censor 
ship ) Rules, 1951, with effect from the dates indicated against each : 

Date of retirement. 
1 . Shrimati Mira Chaudhuri 

1 - 3 -1956 
2 . Shri B . S . Kcsvan 

1 - 3 - 1956 
3. Shri S . C . Sarkar 

1 - 3 - 1956 
4. Shri L . P . Misra 

1 - 3 - 1956 
5 . Shri B . K . Basu 

5 - 3 - 1956 
6 . Dr. R . C . Mazumdari 

1 - 3 - 1958 

[No. 14 / 3 / 56 - FC . ] 
D . KRISHNA AYYAR , Under Secy. 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1956 


