BS 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ cane 


ಸಂಪುಟ -೧೫೯ ಬೆ೦ಗಳೂರು, ಸೋಮವಾರ, ೧೨, ಆಗಸ್ಟ್‌, ೨೦೨೪(ಶ್ರಾವಣ, ೨೧. ಶಕವರ್ಷ, ೧೯೪೬) ಸಂಚಿಕೆ ೧೫೯ 
Volume - 159 BENGALURU, MONDAY, 12, AUGUST, 2024(SHRAVANA, 21, SHAKAVARSHA, 1946) Issue 159 


ಭಾಗ ೪ 
ಕೇಂದ್ರದ ವಿಧೇಯಕಗಳು ಮತ್ತು ಅವುಗಳ ಮೇಲೆ ಪರಿಶೀಲನಾ ಸಮಿತಿಯ ವರದಿಗಳು, 
ಕೇಂದ್ರದ ಅಧಿನಿಯಮಗಳು ಮತ್ತು ಅಧ್ಯಾದೇಶಗಳು, ಕೇಂದ್ರ ಸರ್ಕಾರದವರು ಹೊರಡಿಸಿದ 
ಸಾಮಾನ್ಯ ಶಾಸನಬದ್ಧ ನಿಯಮಗಳು ಮತ್ತು ಶಾಸನಬದ್ಧ ಆದೇಶಗಳು ಮತ್ತು 
ರಾಷ್ಟ್ರಪತಿಯವರಿಂದ ರಚಿತವಾಗಿ ರಾಜ್ಯ ಸರ್ಕಾರದವರಿಂದ 


ಪುನಃ ಪ್ರಕಟವಾದ ಆದೇಶಗಳು 


ಸಂಸದೀಯ ವ್ಯವಹಾರಗಳು ಮತ್ತು ಶಾಸನ ರಚನೆ ಇಲಾಖೆ 

ಅಧಿಸೂಚನೆ 

ಸಂಖ್ಯೆ: ಸ೦ವ್ಯಶಾಇ 08 Slay 2024 ಬೆ೦ಗಳೂರು, ದಿನಾ೦ಕ: 08.08.2024. 
ದಿನಾ೦ಕ: 13.03.2024 ರಂದು ಭಾರತ ಸರ್ಕಾರದ ಗೆಜೆಟ್‌ನ ವಿಶೇಷ ಸ೦ಚಿಕೆಯ  88ಗ-1- 
Section-3 Sub Section (0ರಲ್ಲಿ ಪ್ರಕಟವಾದ the National Nursing and Midwifery Commission 


Rules, 2024 ರ Notification-GSR 187(E) ಅನ್ನು ಸಾರ್ವಜನಿಕರ ಮಾಹಿತಿಗಾಗಿ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ 
ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರದಲ್ಲಿ ಮರು ಪ್ರಕಟಿಸಲಾಗಿದೆ, 


(೭೨೨) 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND FAMILY WELFARE 
NOTIFICATION 
New Delhi, the 13th Mareh, 2024 


G.S.R. 187(E).—Whereas, the National Nursing and Midwifery Commission (Manner of Appointment 
and Nomination of Members. Secretary and Members of Autonomous Boards, their Salary, Allowances and ‘Terms 
and Conditions of Service, and Declaration of Assets, Professional and Commercial Engagements) Rules, 2023 
was published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part 11, section 3, sub-section (1), dated the 17th November, 
2023 vide notification number G.S.R.847 (17), dated the 17th November, 2023 in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (1) of section 51 of the National Nursing and Midwifery Commission Act, 2023 (26 of 2023), 


art 11. 5ರ ATTRA AT 77೯77೫: ೫೫7೪೫ 9 


inviting objections and suggestions from all the persons likely to be affected thereby, within thirty days from the 
date on which the copies of the Official Gazette containing the said notification were made available to the public; 


And whereas, copies of the said Official Gazette were made available to the public on 17th November, 


And whereas, the objections and suggestions received from the public on the said draft rules within the 
period specified in the said notification have been considered by the Central Government; 


Now, therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by clauses (a), (b), (¢ ), (ಟಿ), (Ce), (ಗಿ, (2).d). @, (0), 
(k), (0) and (p) of sub-section (2) of section 51 of the National Nursing and Midwifery Commission Act, 2023 (26 
of 2023), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely: - 


1. Short title and commencement—(1 ) These rules may be called the National Nursing and Midwifery Commission 
Rules, 2024. 


(2) They shall come into force from the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 
2. Definitions — (1) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires — 
(a) “Act” means the National Nursing and Midwifery Commission Act, 2023 (26 of 2023); 
(b) “Board” means an Autonomous Board constituted under section 11; 
(c) “Commission” means the National Nursing and Midwifery Commission constituted un 
(d) “Secretary” means Secretary of the Commission appointed under sub-section (1) of section 8; 
(e) “Section” means section of the Act; 
(f) “State Commission” means the State Nursing and Midwifery Commission constituted under section 23; 
(g) “State” shall include a Union territory Administration; 
(h) “zone” means any of the six zones specified in rule 4; 


(i) “whole-time Members of Commission” means the Members nominated or appointed under clauses (1), (j), (kK) 
and (1) of section 4. 


(2) Words and expressions used herein but not defined and defined in the Act, shall have the meaning assigned to 
them in the Act. 


3. Qualifications and experience for nursing and midwifery leader.— The nursing and midwifery leader, defined 
under clause (q) of section 2, shall possess the following qualifications and experience, namely:— 


(a) a post graduate degree in any discipline of nursing and midwifery education from a recognised University; 
(b) be registered with the National Register or State Register; and 


(c) having experience of not less than fifteen years and holding administrative position for four years in the field 
of nursing and midwifery from a recognised institution or University or healthcare facility. 
4. Zonal distribution of States and Union territories— The following shall be the zonal distribution of the States 
and Union territories under clauses (h) and (1) of section 4, namely:— 


(a) the Northern Zone, consisting of the following four States and four Union territories, namely, Haryana, 
Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan, National Capital territory of Delhi, Chandigarh, Jammu and Kashmir and 
Ladakh; 


b) the Central Zone, consisting of the following four States namely, Chhattisgarh, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh 
and Madhya Pradesh; 


c) the Eastern Zone, consisting of the following four States, namely, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal; 


d) the North-Eastern Zone, consisting of the following eight States, namely, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, 
Manipur, Nagaland, Mizoram, Tripura, Meghalaya and Sikkim; 


e) the Western Zone, consisting of the following three States and one Union territory, namely, Goa, Gujarat, , 
Maharashtra, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu; 


f) the Southern Zone, consisting of the following five States and three Union territories, namely, Andhra 
Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Puducherry, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and 
Lakshadweep. 


10 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEc. 3(1)] 


5. Manner of nomination of Members under clause (g) of section 4— (1) The Central Government shall nominate 
three Members, not below the rank of Chief Nursing Officer or Nursing Superintendent of any of the hospitals or 
Dean or Principal of College of Nursing, as the case may be, from Central Government hospitals or Nursing and 
Midwifery Institutions of repute, for a term of two years. 


(2) In the event of occurrence of vacancy, including by reason of death, resignation or removal, as the case may be, of 
a Member under this rule, the Central Government shall nominate another person as Member at the earliest and within 
three months from the date of occurrence of such vacancy and the person so nominated shall remain a member for a 
full term of two years. 


6. Manner of nomination of Members under clause (h) of section 4— (1) The Central Government shall nominate 
six Chairpersons of the State Commissions, one from each of the six zones, on rotational basis after every two years, 
by draw of lots on such date as may be decided by the Central Government. 


(2) There shall be six draw boxes representing six zones out of which a single slip shall be picked from each of the six 
draw boxes. 


(3) The draw of lots at every subsequent two-year interval, shall be restricted to those States or Union territories not 
represented as Members in the immediately preceding term. 


(4) The draw of lots shall be conducted with paper slips of uniform size, colour and design bearing individual names 
of each State and Union territories, which shall be folded in such manner so as to preserve the confidentiality. 


(5) The draw of lots shall be conducted in the presence of the Union Health Secretary. 


(6) In case of vacancy in the office of a Chairperson of the State Commission, the State Government shall nominate 
any other Member from the State Commission as a member under this rule until a person is nominated to the post of 
Chairperson of the State Commission and the person so nominated as Chairperson of the State Commission shall 
become the member of the Commission only for the remaining term of two years. 


(7) The draw of lots for members under this rule shall be held first, followed by the draw of lots under rule 7. 


7. Manner of nomination of Members under clause (i) of section 4.— (1) Six Members shall be nominated to the 
Commission under clause (1) of section 4, from each of the six zones, from amongst nursing members of eminence, 
from nursing and midwifery profession of outstanding ability, proven administrative capacity and integrity, possessing 
a postgraduate degree in any discipline of nursing and midwifery from any University and having experience of not 
less than fifteen years in the field of nursing and midwifery, out of which at least seven years shall be as a nursing and 
midwifery leader. 

(2) A single nomination shall be made, from each of the six zones, on rotation basis after every two years, by draw of 
lots, on such date as may be decided by the Central Government. 

(3) There shall be six draw boxes representing six zones out of which a single slip shall be picked from each of the six 
draw boxes. 


(4) The first draw of lots for nomination of Members under this rule shall be restricted to those States and Union 
territories not represented under rule 6 and the draw of lots at every subsequent two year interval, shall be restricted to 
those States or Union territories not represented as Members in the immediately preceding term. 


(5) The draw of lots shall be conducted with paper slips of uniform size, colour and design bearing individual names 
of each State and Union territories, which shall be folded in such manner so as to preserve the confidentiality. 


(6) The draw of lots shall be conducted in the presence of the Union Health Secretary. 


(7) In the event of occurrence of vacancy of a Member, including by reason of death, resignation or removal, the State 
Government shall nominate another person in his place at the earliest and within three months and the person so 
nominated shall remain a Member 111 the Commission only for the remaining term of two years. 


(8) The State Government shall, before recommending any person for appointment as a Member under this rule, 
satisfy itself that such person does not have any financial or other interest which 15 likely to affect prejudicially his 
functions as a Member of the Commission. 


(9) The Central Government shall, within three months before the end of tenure of the Member, write to the States and 
Union territories, to initiate the process of filling up of the vacancy. 


8. Manner of appointment of Members under clauses (j), (0 and (J) of section 4— 
(1) The Central Government shall, on the recommendations of the Search-cum-Selection Comittee, appoint— 


(a) four Members under clause () of section 4, from amongst nursing and midwifery members of eminence, of 
which at least two shall be midwifery professionals, of outstanding ability, proven administrative capacity and 
integrity, possessing a postgraduate degree in any discipline of nursing and midwifery from any University and 


[೪77 []-—ars AIST AT [೧೫ : ೫೫7೪7೫ 11 


having experience of not less than fifteen years in the field of nursing and midwifery, out of which at least seven 
years shall be as a nursing and midwifery leader; 


(b) one Member under clause (k) of section 4, from amongst the charitable institutions which have been in 
operation for not less than fifteen years providing healthcare service and education, possessing the following 
qualifications and experience, namely:— 


(i) possessing a post graduate degree in any discipline of nursing and midwifery from any University; 


(ii) having not less than fifteen years experience in the field of nursing and midwifery, out of which at least 
four years shall be as a nursing and midwifery leader; 


(c) one Member under clause (1) of section 4, who shall be a person of eminence, from amongst persons of ability, 
integrity and standing, who have special knowledge and professional experience in such areas including in 
management, law, medical ethics, health research, consumer or patient rights advocacy, science and technology 
and economics. 


(2) The Members appointed under sub-rule (1) shall hold office for a term of four years. 


(3) In the event of occurrence of vacancy of a Member under this rule, including by reason of death, resignation or 
removal, as the case may be, the Central Government shall appoint another person as Member at the earliest and 
within three months from the date of occurrence of such vacancy and the person so appointed shall remain a member 
for a full term of four years. 


9. Manner of nomination of Members of Search-cum-Selection Committee under clauses (b) and (c) of sub- 
section (1) of section 5—The Central Government shall appoint four experts under clause (b) and one expert under 
clause (c), of sub-section (1) of section 5 , as Members of the Search-cum-Selection Committee, for a term of two 
years. 


(2) In the event of occurrence of vacancy, including by reason of death, resignation or removal, as the case may be, of 
a Member under this rule, the Central Government shall nominate another person as member to the Search-cum- 
Selection Committee at the earliest and within three months from the date of occurrence of such vacancy and the 
person so nominated shall remain a Member in the Search-cum-Selection Committee only for the remaining term of 
office of two years. 


10. Salaries and allowances payable to Chairperson and whole-time Members of Commission—<1) The salary 
payable to the Chairperson shall be equivalent the salary admissible to an Additional Secretary to the Government of 
India. 


(2) The salary payable to the whole-time Members of the Commission shall be equivalent to the salary admissible to 
an officer of the level of Joint Secretary to the Government of India. 


(3) Where the Chairperson or a whole-time Member of the Commission is a retired person from the Government, 
semi-Government agency, public sector undertaking or recognised research institution, the salary payable together 
with the pension or pensionery value of the terminal benefits, or both, received by such Chairperson or whole-time 
Member shall not exceed the last pay drawn. 


(4) Where the Chairperson or a whole-time Member of the Commission is in the service of the Central Government or 
a State Government or a Union territory Administration, his salary and allowances shall be regulated in accordance 
with the rules applicable to such Chairperson or whole-time Member in his parent cadre or department, or as per this 
rule, whichever 15 higher, and his appointment in the Commission shall be treated as being on deputation. 


(5) The Chairperson and whole-time Members of the Commission shall also be entitled to dearness allowance, 
travelling allowances and daily allowances appropriate to their pay at the rates admissible to officers of equivalent 
level in the Central Government. 


11. Secretary of Commission— — (1) The Central Government shall appoint a Secretary to the Commission who 
shall be a person of outstanding ability, proven administrative capacity and integrity and possessing the following 
qualifications and experience, namely:— 


(i) a postgraduate degree in any discipline related to Nursing from any University or Institute; and 

(ii) holding analogous post on regular basis in the present cadre or department; or 

(iii) with minimum three years’ regular service in level 13 in the pay matrix or equivalent thereto; or 

(iv) with minimum seven years’ regular service in level 12 in the pay matrix or equivalent thereto or above; and 


(v) having experience in the Central Government or a State Government or any statutory body or recognised 
organisation or institution of not less than fifteen years in his related service or profession along with 
administrative experience of not less than seven years; 


12 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II-—SEc. 3(1)] 


(2) The salary payable to the Secretary shall be equivalent to the salary of Joimt Secretary to the Government of India. 


(3) The Secretary shall be entitled for dearness allowance, travelling allowances and daily allowances appropriate to 
his pay at the rates admissible to Joint Secretary to the Government of India. 


(4) A person who has completed the age of fifty-five years on the date of application shall not be eligible for the post 
of Secretary. 


(5) The Secretary shall hold office for a term of four years or till he attain the age of sixty years, whichever is earlier. 


12. Manner of appointment of second part-time Member of Board.— (1) The Central Government shall appoint a 
second part-time Member for each of the Boards under sub-section (6) of section 12 by draw of lots from amongst the 
Members nominated under clause (h) of section 4 of the Act who have given their consent to serve as second part-time 
Member of Board and the name of any unwilling Member shall not be included in the draw box. 


(2) Three slips shall be picked from out of the six slips in the draw box containing the names of the six Members 
referred to in sub-rule (1). 


(3) The name appearing in the first slip shall be the second part-time Member of the Nursing and Midwifery 
Assessment and Rating Board, the name appearing in the second slip shall be the second part-time Member of the 
Nursing and Midwifery Ethics and Registration Board and the name appearing in the third slip shall be second part- 
time Member of the Nursing and Midwifery Undergraduate and Postgraduate Board. 


(4) The draw of lots shall be conducted in the presence of the Union Health Secretary. 


(5) The tenure of the Members shall be co-terminus with their membership of the Commission under clause (h) of 
section 4. 


(6) In the event of occurrence of vacancy of a Member at any time, the Central Government shall appoint another 
part-time Member in the manner provided in this rule. 


13. Salaries and allowances payable to President and whole-time Members of Boards.— (1) The salary payable 
to the President and whole-time Members of Boards shall be equivalent to the salary admissible to a 20111! Secretary to 
the Government of India. 


Provided that where the President or a whole-time Member of a Board, is a retired person from the 
Government, semi-Government agency, public sector undertaking or recognised research institution, the salary 
payable together with the pension or pensionery value of the terminal benefits, or both, received by such President or 
whole-time Member shall not exceed the last pay drawn. 


(2) Where the President or a whole-time Member is in the service of the Central Government or a State Government 
or a Union territory Administration, his salary and allowances shall be regulated in accordance with the rules 
applicable to such President or a whole-time Member in his parent cadre or department, or as per sub-rule (1), 
whichever is higher, and his appointment in the Commission shall be treated as being on deputation. 


(3) The President and whole-time Member of a Board shall be entitled for dearness allowance, travelling allowances 
and daily allowances appropriate to their pay at the rates admissible to officers of equivalent level in the Central 
Government. 


14. Sitting fee—The ex-officio and part-time Members of the Commission and part-time Members of each Board, 
shall be entitled to a sitting fee of five thousand rupees for each day of sitting of the Commission or the Board as the 
case may be. 


15. Leave— The Chairperson, whole-time Members, Secretary and the President and whole-time Members of Board 
shall be entitled to— 


(a) earned leave, half pay leave and commuted leave as admissible to Central Government servants in 
accordance with the Central Civil Services (Leave) Rules,1972, as amended from time to time; and 


(b) extraordinary leave as admissible to the temporary Central Government servants under the Central Civil 
Services (Leave) Rules, 1972, as amended from time to time. 


16. Leave sanctioning authority— —(1) The Central Government shall be the authority competent to sanction leave 
to the Chairperson of the Commission. 


(1) The Chairperson of the Commission shall be the authority competent to sanction leave (ರ್ಕ 
(a) whole-time Members of the Commission and the Secretary of the Commission; and 
(b) President of a Board. 


(2) The President of a Board shall be the authority to sanction leave to a whole-time Member of that Board. 


[೪77 [ars ೫7೫ AT UST : ೫೫7೪7೫ 13 


17. Contributory Provident Fund.— The Chairperson, whole-time Members of Commission, Secretary and the 
President and whole-time Members of Board, — 


(a) shall be governed by the provisions of the Contributory Provident Fund Rules (India), 1962 and there shall 
be no option to subscribe under the General Provident Fund (Central Services) Rules, 1960; 


(b) shall not be entitled to additional pension and gratuity for the service rendered by them in the Board 


18. Travelling allowances to other Members.— Every other Member of the Commission other than the Members 
referred to in rule 10 and rule 13, including part-time Members of Boards, shall be entitled to draw travelling 
allowances and daily allowances at the rates admissible to an officer of the level of Joint secretary to the Government 
of India. 


19. Application of Central Civil Services Rules.— The Chairperson, whole-time Members of the Commission, 
Secretary and President and whole-time Members of Boards shall be governed by the provisions of the Central Civil 
Service (Conduct) Rules during their tenure. 


20. Declaration of assets, professional and commercial engagement or involvement.— The Chairperson, whole- 
time Members of the Commission, Secretary and President and Members of Boards shall— 


(a) file a return of their assets and habilities in Form A annexed to these rules. 


(b) declare their professional and commercial engagement or involvement at the time of appointment as such 
Chairperson or Secretary or Member, and at the time of demitting office, in Form B annexed to these rules. 


21. The other powers and functions of Commission.— In addition to the powers and functions of the Commission 
specified in section 10 of the Act, the Commission shall— 


(a) undertake study to reduce the cost of nursing education in the country; 

(b) suggest, among others, adoption of modern technology, intensive use of infrastructure, faculty sharing, and 
global best practices with a view to reduce the cost of education and make it more accessible; 

(c) decide the manner of hearing appeals against the decisions of Boards: 


Provided that where an appeal is filed against the decision of a Board, the President of such Board shall 
not participate in the appeal proceedings; 


(d) while making regulations, consult all Stat 
stakeholders, such as, association of dental pro 
bodies; 


Governments, Union territory Administrations and other 


0 
fessionals, association of resident dentists and patient nghts 


(e) give wide publicity to the draft regulations by placing it on the website of the Commission for a period of 
thirty days and considering the objections or suggestions as may be received from the general public: 


Provided that the final draft of the regulations shall be finalised in consultation with the Legislative 
Department through the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare; 


(f) endorse a copy of each major decision taken by the Commission to the Ministry of Health and Family 
Welfare through its Secretary and publish it on the website of the Commission; 


(g) furnish such information or report to the Central Government as may be required by the Central 
Government from time to time 


22. Compensation payable to erstwhile employees of Indian Nursing Council.— (1) The Commission shall decide 
on the premature termination and compensation payable to the regular employees of the erstwhile Indian Nursing 
Council within a period of one year as provided in sub-section (5) of Section 56. 


(2) An employee of the erstwhile Indian Nursing Council, unless continued with the Commission on contract basis, 
shall be paid an advance amount equivalent to three months’ salary at the time of termination of his service which 
shall be deducted from the total compensation package. 


(3) An employee of the erstwhile Indian Nursing Council who is not continued with the Commission, shall be paid 
compensation package including pensionary benefits applicable to such employee as per the terms and conditions of 
his service at the time of his appointment in the erstwhile Indian Nursing Council. 


14 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART 11-576. 3(1)] 


801114 
[See rule 20(೧)] 
DECLARATION OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 


Details of immovable property 


Name of Name and Cost of Present | How acquired, Annual 
. 7 +: ತ : ; ¢ > 

District, Sub- | Details construction/Ac [Value whether by Income 

Division, of Property, quirement purchase, lease **, from 

Taluk & Housing, (and year when mortgage, Property 

Village or Lands 

City in which 


purchased) 
and Other including of 


Buildings : in case of 


inheritance, gift or 


F otherwise with 
property 1s 


i i date of acquisition 
situated (full ° ! 
& name with details of 


person(s) from whom 


location & 


postal address) 


DECLARATION 


ರಟ  ೊ ೊೋೊೋ ೋೊೋೊೋೊೋೊಲೊ್‌€್‌ಚೆ್‌ hereby declare that the information given above is true 
and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. 


In the event of any change in the information given above, I undertake to intimate the same. 


Yours faithfully, 


Signature/thumb impression 
Date: 


Form B 
[See rule 20 (b) ] 
Statement of professional and commercial engagements or involvement 
on first appointment and at the time of demitting office 
Relation ame Professional position held in last(Commercial engagement 


three years from the date offinvolvement held in last three years 
declarations, 1f any from the date of declarations, 1f any 


_ | Se | 


OE 
OE 
Og 
[ss [owas [ [sd CSCS 


[F’. No. Z.16015/08/2023-N] 
Dr. VIPUL AGGARWAL, Jt. Secy. 


Uploaded by Dte. of Printing at Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064 


Digitally signed by AMIT KUMAR 
AMIT KUMAR JAISWAL Jaiswat 


Date: 2024.03.14 00:41:40 10530 


೭೩೦ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಸೋಮವಾರ, ೧೨, ಆಗಸ್ಟ್‌, ೨೦೨೪ ಭಾಗ ೪ 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪಾಲರ ಆದೇಶಾನುಸಾರ 
ಮತ್ತು ಅವರ ಹೆಸರಿನಲ್ಲಿ 
(ಅಫೀಫಾ ಉಸ್ಮಾನಿ) 
ಸಹಾಯಕ ಪ್ರಾರೂಪಕಾರ ಮತ್ತು ಪದನಿಮಿತ್ತ 
ಸರ್ಕಾರದ ಉಪ ಕಾರ್ಯದರ್ಶಿ 


ಸಂಸದೀಯ ವ್ಯವಹಾರಗಳು ಮತ್ತು 
ಶಾಸನ ರಚನೆ ಇಲಾಖೆ 
PR-42 
ಸಂಸದೀಯ ವ್ಯವಹಾರಗಳು ಮತ್ತು ಶಾಸನ ರಚನೆ ಇಲಾಖೆ 
ಅಧಿಸೂಚನೆ 
ಸಂಖ್ಯೆ: ಸ೦ವ್ಯಶಾಇ 11 ಕೇವಿಪ್ರ 2024 ಬೆ೦ಗಳೂರು, ದಿನಾ೦ಕ: 08.08.2024. 


ದಿನಾ೦ಕ: 07.06.2024 ರಂದು ಭಾರತ ಸರ್ಕಾರದ ಗೆಜೆಟ್‌ನ ವಿಶೇಷ ಸ೦ಚಿಕೆಯ 88ಗ-0- 
Section-3 Sub Section (1ರಲ್ಲಿ ಪ್ರಕಟವಾದ the Honey Grading and Marking Rules, 2024 ರ 
Notification-GSR 316(ಐನ್ನು ಸಾರ್ವಜನಿಕರ ಮಾಹಿತಿಗಾಗಿ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರದಲ್ಲಿ ಮರು 
ಪ್ರಕಟಿಸಲಾಗಿದೆ,- 


MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FARMERS WELFARE 
(Department of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare) 
NOTIFICATION 
New Delhi, the 7 June, 2024 


G.S.R. 316(E)— Whereas the draft of the Honey Grading and Marking Rules, 2023, was published under 
section 3 of the Agricultural Produce (Grading and Marking) Act, 1937 (1 of 1937) in the Gazette of India, 
Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (1), vide number G.S.R. 876(E), dated the 6th December, 2023, inviting 
objections and suggestions from all persons likely to be affected thereby within forty-five days from the date on which 
copies of the said notification published in the Gazette of India, were made available to the public; 


And whereas, the copies of the said notification were made available to the public on 06th December, 2023; 
And whereas, the objections and suggestions received from the public in respect of the said draft rules have 
been duly considered; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Agricultural 
Produce (Grading and Marking) Act, 1937 (1 of 1937), and in supersession of the Honey Grading and Marking Rules, 
2008, except as respect things done or omitted to be done before such supersession, the Central Govemment hereby 
makes the following rules, namely:- 


1. Short title, application and commencement. - (1) These rules may be called the Honey Grading and Marking 
Rules, 2024. 


(2) They shall apply to following types of Honey intended for human consumption, namely: - 
(a) Blossom Honey or Nectar Honey; 
(b) Carvia Callosa Honey; 
(c) Honeydew Honey 

(3) They shall come into force on the date of their final publication in the Official Gazette. 


[೪777 11-೫೫೯ 3(1)] AIT BT UST : ೫೫7೪೧7೫ 9 


2: 


(2) 


Definitions.- (1) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, - 


(a) 
(b) 


(0) 


(6) 


(6) 


(೧ 
(8) 


(1) 


(0) 


“Act” means the Agricultural Produce (Grading and Marking) Act, 1937 (1 of 1937); 


"Agricultural Marketing Adviser" means the Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of 
India; 
"authorised packer" means a person or a body of persons who has been granted a certificate of 


authorisation to grade and mark Honey with the grade standards and procedure prescribed under these 
rules and the General Grading and Marking Rules, 1988; 


"certificate of authorisation" means a certificate issued under the provisions of the General Grading and 
Marking Rules, 1988, authorising a person or a body of persons to grade and mark Honey with the 
grade designation mark; 


"General Grading and Marking Rules" means the General Grading and Marking Rules, 1988 made 
under section 3 of the Agricultural Produce (Grading and Marking) Act, 1937 (1 of 1937); 


"Grade designation mark" means “Agmark insignia” referred to in rule 3; 


“Honey” is the natural sweet substance produced by honey bees from the nectar of plants or from 
secretions of living parts of plants or excretions of plant sucking insects on the living parts of plants, 
which the bees collect, transform by combining with specific substances of their own, deposit, 
dehydrate, store and leave in the honey comb to ripen and mature and includes, - 


(a) Blossom Honey or Nectar Honey is the Honey which comes from nectars of plants; 


(b) Carvia Callosa Honey is the Honey derived from the flowers of the Carviacallosa plant which is 
described as thixotropic and is gel like extremely viscous when standing still and turns into liquid 
when agitated or stirred; 


(c) Honeydew Honey is the Honey which comes mainly from excretion of plant sucking insects 
(Hemiptera) on the living parts of plants or secretions of living parts of plants. 


“Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules” means the Legal Metrology (Packaged 
Commodities) Rules, 2011, made under the Legal Metrology Act, 2009 (1 of 2010); and 


"Schedule" means the Schedules appended to these rules. 


The words and expressions used and not defined in these rules but defined in the Agricultural Produce 
(Grading and Marking) Act, 1937 or the General Grading and Marking Rules, 1988 or the Legal Metrology 
(Packaged Commodities) Rules, 2011 shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them under the said 
Act or the rules. 


Grade designation mark.- The grade designation mark shall consist of "AGMARK Insignia" incorporating 
the certificate of authorisation number, the word "AGMARK", the name of commodity and a grade 
designation resembling the design specified in Schedule-I. 


Grade designation. - The grade designation to indicate the quality of Honey shall be such as specified in 
Schedule- II. 


Quality. - The quality of Honey shall be such as specified in Schedule- II. 


Method of packing. - (1) The Honey shall be packed in packaging material in accordance with the provisions 
of the Food Safety and Standards (Packaging) Regulations, 2018 and the Legal Metrology (Packaged 
Commodities) Rules. 


(2) 


(3) 


(4) 


The Honey shall be packed in sizes in accordance with the provisions of the Legal Metrology 
(Packaged Commodities) Rules or as approved by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser in accordance 
with rule 11 of the General Grading and Marking Rules. 


The containers shall not be composed wholly or partly of any poisonous or deleterious substances 
which renders the contents injurious to health. 


The containers shall be free from insect infestation, fungus contamination and should not impart any 
obnoxious and undesirable odour or flavour to the product. 


10 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)] 


(5) The screwed caps shall be made of non-corrosive and non-reactive material to the product. 


(6) The graded material of small pack sizes of the same lot or batch and grade may be packed in a master 
container with complete details thereon along with grade designation mark. 


(7) Each package shall contain Honey of the same type and of the same grade designation. 


(8) Each package shall be properly and securely closed and sealed so as to disallow spilling. 


Method of marking and labeling.- (1) The grade designation mark shall be securely affixed to or clearly and 
indelibly printed on each package or container in the manner approved by the Agricultural Marketing 
Adviser or an officer authorised by him in this behalf in accordance with rule 11 of the General Grading and 
Marking Rules. 


(2) The Honey shall be marked on packaging in accordance with the provisions of the Food Safety and 
Standards (Labeling and Display) Regulations, 2020. 


(3) In addition to the grade designation mark, the following particulars shall be clearly and indelibly 


marked on each package or container, namely:- 


(a) 
(b) 
(0) 
(6) 
(6) 
(f) 
(g) 
(h) 
(i) 
0) 
(k) 
(1) 
(೧7) 


name of the commodity; 

C.A. number; 

grade; 

variety or trade name (optional); 

lot or batch number; 

date of manufacture or packaging; 
nutritional information; 

net quantity; 

name and address of the authorised packer (printed and/or scannable); 
maximum retail price (inclusive of all taxes); 
expiry or use by date; 

storage condition, if any; and 


any other particulars as may be specified under the Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) 
Rules or under the Food Safety and Standards (Packaging) Regulations, 2018 and the Food 
Safety and Standards (Labeling and Display) Regulations, 2020 or any notification issued under 
any law for the time being in force or any instructions issued there under. 


(4) The ink used for marking on packages shall be of such quality which shall not contaminate the Honey. 


(5) As per the labeling provisions made under the Food Safety and Standards (Packaging) Regulations, 
2018 and the Food Safety and Standards (Labeling and Display) Regulations, 2020, honey shall be 


labeled as:- 

(a) Honeydew Honey - if the product complies with the definitions given in clause (g) of rule 2; 

(b) Blend of Honeydew Honey and Blossom Honey - if the product is a mixture of Blossom or 
Nectar Honey and Honeydew Honey; 

(c) Carvia Callosa Honey - if the product complies with the definitions given in clause (8) of rule 2; 

(d) if the Honey is obtained by pressing broodless combs, honey shall be labeled as “Pressed 
Honey”. If honey belongs to any of the categories mentioned in sub-rule (4) above and also 
falling into the category of Pressed Honey, it shall be labeled as “Pressed Honeydew Honey” or 
“Pressed and Blend of Honeydew Honey and Blossom Honey” or “Pressed Carvia Callosa 
Honey”; 

(e) The Honey may be designated according to floral or plant source, if it comes wholly or mainly 


from any particular source and has the organoleptic, physicochemical and microscopic 
properties corresponding with that origin and categorized as under; - 


[೪77 11-೫೫೯ 3(1)] AIST FT USI: TAT ATT 11 


Explanation. - for the purpose of this rule,- 


(6) 


(i) Monofloral Honey - if the minimum pollen content of the plant species concerned is not less 
than forty-five percent of total pollen content; 


(ii) Multi Floral Honey - if the pollen content of any of the plant species does not exceed forty - 
five percent of the total pollen content. 


The authorised packer may, after obtaining prior approval of the Agricultural Marketing Adviser or 
an officer authorised by him in this behalf, mark his private trade mark or trade brand on the graded 
packages provided the same do not indicate quality other than that indicated by the grade designation 
mark affixed to the graded packages in accordance with these rules. 


8. Special conditions for grant of certificate of authorisation. - In addition to the conditions specified in sub-rule 
(8) of rule 3 of the General Grading and Marking Rules, every authorised packer shall comply with the 
conditions specified under these rules, namely: - 


(i) 


(ii) 


(iii) 


(iv) 


(v) 


(vi) 


the authorised packer shall either set up his own laboratory as per norms provided under rule 8 of the 
General Grading and Marking Rules or have access to an approved State Grading Laboratory or 
cooperative or association laboratory or a private commercial laboratory manned by a qualified chemist 
approved by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser or an officer authorised by him in this behalf under rule 
9 of the General Grading and Marking Rules for testing the quality of Honey; 


the premises of authorised packer shall be maintained in hygienic and sanitary condition with proper 
ventilation and well lighted arrangement and the personnel engaged in these operations shall be in sound 
health and free from any infectious, contagious or communicable diseases; 


the premises of the authorised packer shall have adequate storage facilities with pucca floor and free 
from dampness, any kind of cracks and crevices, rodent and insect infestation; 


the authorised packer and the approved chemist shall observe all instructions regarding testing, grading, 
packing, marking, sealing and maintenance of records which may be issued by the Agricultural 
Marketing Adviser or an officer authorised by him in this behalf in accordance with the General Grading 
and Marking Rules from time to time; 


the surrounding area or environment shall be free from objectionable odour, smoke, dust or air borne 
pathological contaminations; and 


all equipments and utensils shall be made of food grade stainless steel only. 
SCHEDULE-I 


Design of Agmark Insignia 


(See rule 3) 


NAME OF COMMODITY 
GRADE 


Note: C.A. number may be printed either 


(a) 


inside the Agmark insignia; or 


(b) C.A. No. with words “see label" (replacing number place), then CA No. to be either preprinted or inkjet 


printed at prominent place on label. 


12 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)] 


SCHEDULE-II 
(See rules 4 and 5) 


Grade designation and quality of honey 


1. "Honey" is the natural sweet substance produced by honey bees from the nectar of plants or from 
secretions of living parts of plants or excretions of plant sucking insects on the living parts of plants, 
which the bees collect, transform by combining with specific substances of their own, deposit, dehydrate, 
store and leave in the honey comb to ripen and mature. 


2. Minimum requirements: 
(i) Honey shall be- 
(೩) well ripened, natural product produced by honeybees; 
(b) having sweet flavour, pleasant aroma and taste characteristic to variety; 
(c) possess uniform colour, varying from light golden to dark brown depending upon the source; 


(d) free from visible mould, inorganic or organic matters such as insects, insect debris, brood or 
grains of sand dirt, pieces of beeswax, the fragments of bees and other insects and from any other 
extraneous matter; 


(e) free from any added food additives such as colour, vitamins, minerals, saccharin and suspended 
particles; 


(f) free from toxic substances arising from the micro-organisms or plants which may constitute a 
hazard to health; 


(g) free from any objectionable flavour, aroma or taint absorbed from foreign matter during its 
processing and storage; 


(ii) honey shall not have begun to ferment or effervesce; 


(iii) filtration is permitted to remove objectionable matter provided sufficient pollen grains which 
characterized the honey are retained; 


(iv) honey may be strained clear through a double thickness of muslin cloth or mesh or filter of suitable 
fineness at a temperature below 65°C to remove all type of extraneous matter; 


(v) honey shall not be heated to such an extent that its essential composition is changed or its quality is 
impaired; 

(vi) for domestic trade, it shall comply with the restrictions in regard to residual levels of metal 
contaminants, antibiotic residues, pesticide residues, microbial requirements, naturally occurring toxic 


substances and other food safety requirements as specified under the regulations made under the Food 
Safety and Standards Act, 2006 (34 of 2006); 


(vii) for export trade, it shall comply with the residual limits of heavy metals, antibiotic residues, pesticides 
and other food safety requirements as laid down by the Codex Alimentarius Commission or importing 
countries requirement for export. 


3. Criteria for grade designation: 


TABLE 


51. No. Parameters Grade designation 
1 


ite) 


[೪77 11-೫7೯ 3(1)] ATT FT UST : TATA OT 13 


Sucrose, percentage by mass, (Maximum) 
For the Honey not listed below 


Carvia-callosa & Honeydew honey 


nn 


Fructose and Glucose ratio (F/G Ratio) 
Total Ash, percentage by mass, 
(Maximum) 


Acidity expressed as formic acid, percentage by mass, 


(Maximum) 


Free Acidity Milli equivalents acid/1000g, (Maximum) 


Hydroxy Methy] Furfural (H.M.F.) mg/kg (Maximum) 


Diastase activity in schade units per gram, (Minimum) 


= 
ಅಂ 


Water insoluble matters percentage (Maximum) 


c) For the Honey not listed below 


d) For Pressed honey 


C4 Sugar, per cent by mass, Max. 


Total count of pollen and plant elements/g 
Apiary Honey (Maximum) 
Squeezed Honey (Minimum) 


2-Acetylfuran-3-Glucopyranoside (2-AFGP) as Marker 
for Rice Syrup 


Foreign oligosaccharides (Max. Percent Peak Area) 
Proline, mg/kg, Minimum 


6 Electrical Conductivity 


13 
14 
15 


— 


Honeys not listed under Honeydew, Max. 

Honeys listed under Honeydew, Min. 

(೩) ಗಿ! Max?. (Maximum difference between all 
measured 830 values); per mil (%o) 


(b) AS?CFru — Glu (The difference in 130/2೮ ratio 
between fructose and glucose); per mil(%o) 


(c) ASBC Protein — Honey (The difference in 0/20 
between honey and its associated protein extract); per 
mil(%o) 


Optical Density at 660 nm (Maximum) 0.30 
Aniline Chloride Test 


kk 


18 
19 
20 


Note: 


1. IfFiehe’s test is positive, but Hydroxy Methyl Furfural (H.M-F.) content is below 80 p.p.m. then honey 
may be accepted. 


2. ಗಿ Max. is the maximum difference observed between all possible isotopic ratios measured (A8!3C 
fructose-disaccharides/ A6'C_ fructose-trisaccharides/ A6'"%C fructose -protein/Ad'3C _ glucose- 
disaccharides /A5'°C_ glucose-trisaccharides/A8'°C_glucose-protein/A5'°C_ disaccharides-trisaccharides/ 
A8°C disaccharides-protein /A8'°C trisaccharides-protein). 


3. Minimum Required Performance Level- 1178/16 
4. Other requirements: 


(i) Honey shall be homogeneous. It may be warmed before use, if granulated; 


14 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)] 


(ii) Honey shall be stored in cool and dry place maintained in hygienic condition. 


Explanation for the purpose of the Table, - 


(a) 


(b) 


(0) 


(6) 


(6) 


(f) 


“Apiary honey” is honey produced from domesticated beehives. 
“Blossom honey” or “Nectar honey” is honey which comes from nectar of plants. 


“Carvia Callosa honey” is honey derived from flowers of the Carviacallosa plant which is described as 
thixotropic and is gel like extremely viscous when standing still and turned into liquid when agitated or 
stirred. 


“Extracted honey” is honey obtained by centrifuging decapped broodless combs; or without the 
application of moderate heat. 


"Honeydew honey" is honey which comes mainly from excretions of plant sucking insects (Hemiptera) on 
the living parts of plants or secretions of living parts ofplants. 


“Squeezed honey” or “Pressed Honey” is honey obtained by pressing or squeezing of broodless combs. 
(F.No. Q-11047/05/Honey/2021-Std) 
FAIZ AHMED KIDWAI, Addl. Secy. (Marketing) 


Uploaded by Dte. of Printing at Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064 
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-110054. 


೭೩೮ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಸೋಮವಾರ, ೧೨, ಆಗಸ್ಟ್‌, ೨೦೨೪ ಭಾಗ ೪ 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪಾಲರ ಆದೇಶಾನುಸಾರ 
ಮತ್ತು ಅವರ ಹೆಸರಿನಲ್ಲಿ 
(ಅಫೀಫಾ ಉಸ್ಮಾನಿ) 
ಸಹಾಯಕ ಪ್ರಾರೂಪಕಾರ ಮತ್ತು ಪದನಿಮಿತ್ತ 
ಸರ್ಕಾರದ ಉಪ ಕಾರ್ಯದರ್ಶಿ 


ಸಂಸದೀಯ ವ್ಯವಹಾರಗಳು ಮತ್ತು 
ಶಾಸನ ರಚನೆ ಇಲಾಖೆ 
PR-43 
ಸಂಸದೀಯ ವ್ಯವಹಾರಗಳು ಮತ್ತು ಶಾಸನ ರಚನೆ ಇಲಾಖೆ 
ಅಧಿಸೂಚನೆ 
ಸಂಖ್ಯೆ: ಸ೦ವ್ಯಶಾಇ 12 ಕೇವಿಪ್ರ 2024 ಬೆ೦ಗಳೂರು, ದಿನಾ೦ಕ: 08.08.2024. 


ದಿನಾ೦ಕ: 07.06.2024 BOW ಭಾರತ ಸರ್ಕಾರದ ಗೆಜೆಟ್‌ನ ವಿಶೇಷ ಸ೦ಚಿಕೆಯ 88ಗ-0- 
Section-3 Sub Section (ರಲ್ಲಿ ಪ್ರಕಟವಾದ the Cinematograph (Adjudication of Penalty) 
Rules, 2024ರ Notification-GSR 317(E)Xd. ಸಾರ್ವಜನಿಕರ ಮಾಹಿತಿಗಾಗಿ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ 
ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರದಲ್ಲಿ ಮರು ಪ್ರಕಟಿಸಲಾಗಿದೆ,- 


6 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)] 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 
NOTIFICATION 
New Delhi, the 7th June, 2024 


G.S.R. 317(E)- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-clause (cc) and sub-clause (cd) of sub- 
section (2) of section 8 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (37 of 1952), the Central Government hereby makes 
the following rules, namely :— 


1. Short title and commencement. (1)—These rules shall be called the Cinematograph (Adjudication of 
Penalty) Rules, 2024. 


(1) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 
2. Definitions. (1)— In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires- 


(i) “Act” means the Cinematograph Act, 1952; 
(ii) “authorised officer” means an officer appointed by either the Central Government or the 
relevant State Government under sub-rule (1) of rule 3; 


(iii) “appellate authority” means an officer referred to in sub-rule (1) of rule 8; and 
(iv) “section” means any section of the Act. 


(2)Words and expressions used in these rules but not defined, and defined in the Act shall have the 
meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act. 


3. Appointment of the authorised officer. (1) The Central Government may, by an order published in the 
Official Gazette, appoint such number of officers of the Central Government, not below the rank of Under 
Secretary, as authorised officers for adjudging penalty under the provisions of the Act. 


(2) The State Government may, by an order published in the Official Gazette, appoint such number of 
officers of the State Government, not below the rank of an Additional District Magistrate or Additional 
Collector or Additional Deputy Commissioner of a District or Under Secretary in the State 
Government, as authorised officers for adjudging penalty under the provisions of the Act. 


4. Powers of the authorised officer. The authorised officer shall exercise the following powers, namely:- 


(i) to enter the place of exhibition or authorise any officer to enter the place of 
exhibition and to report the violation, if any; 
(ii) to summon and enforce the attendance of any person acquainted with the facts and 
circumstances of the case after recording reasons in writing; and 
(ili) to order for evidence, including video surveillance footage, ticket scans or to produce any 
document, which in the opinion of the authorised officer may be relevant to the subject 
matter. 


5. Factors to be considered for adjudication of penalty. While adjudicating the quantum of penalty, the 
Authorised Officer shall have due regard to the following factors, namely: - 


(i) nature of the violation; 


(ii) the amount of disproportionate gain or unfair advantage, wherever quantifiable, made as a 
result of the violation. 

(ili) repetition of the violation; and 

(iv) balance of hardships. 


6. Procedure for levying penalties. - 


(1) Before adjudging the penalty, the authorised officer shall issue a show cause notice to the 
person who is in default, to show cause within such period as may be specified in the notice 
(not being less than fifteen days and not more than thirty days from the date of service 
thereon), providing the reasons for which the penalty should not be imposed upon. 


(2) Every notice issued under sub-rule (1) shall, - 


(i) clearly indicate the nature of violation alleged to have been committed or made by 
the person under the Act; and 


(ii) draw attention to the relevant penalty provisions of the Act. 


(3) The reply to show cause notice shall be filed within the period specified in the notice 
which may be extended by the authorised officer, for reasons to be recorded in writing, by 
a further period not exceeding fifteen days, if the person satisfies the authorised officer that 


[೪771 11. ೫7೯ 3(i)] ATT FT ISS: AAT AT 


(4) 


5) 


(6) 


(7) 


(8) 


such person has sufficient cause for not responding to the notice within stipulated period or 
if the authorised officer has reason to believe that the person has received a shorter notice 
and did not have reasonable time to respond. 


After considering the reply to show cause notice provided by the person, if the authorised 
officer is of the opinion that physical appearance is required, the authorised officer shall 
issue a notice, within ten working days from the date of receipt of the reply, fixing a date for 
appearance of the person, either personally, or through authorised representative. 


If any person, to whom a notice is issued under sub-rule (1), desires to make an oral 
representation, whether personally or through their authorised representative and has 
indicated the same in the reply to show cause notice, the authorised officer shall allow such 
person to make such representation after fixing a date of appearance. 


After giving a reasonable opportunity of being heard to the person concerned on the date 
fixed for hearing, the authorised officer may, subject to reasons to be recorded in writing, 
pass any order in writing, including an order for adjournment. 


After the hearing, the authorised officer may require the concerned person to submit a 
written reply on any other issues relevant to the determination of the violation. 


If any person fails to reply to the show cause notice issued under sub-rule (1) or sub-rule 
(4) or refuses to appear as required under sub-rule (5), the authorised officer may pass an 
order imposing the penalty in the absence of such a person after recording the reasons for 
doing so. 


7. Passing and disclosure of the order of penalty. (1) The authorised officer shall pass an order deciding 
penalty, within ninety days from the date of issue of notice under sub-rule (1) of rule 6. 


(2) 


(3) 


(4) 


5) 


(6) 


If an order is passed after the expiry of the period of ninety days as specified under sub- 
tule (1), the reasons for the delay shall be recorded by the authorised officer in writing. 


No order passed by the authorised officer shall be invalid merely for the reason of delay in 
passing of order by the authorised officer. 


Every order of the authorised officer shall be duly dated and signed by the authorised 
officer and shall clearly state the relevant facts, basis of the decision including the reasons 
for requiring the physical appearance under sub-rule (4) of rule 6. 


The authorised officer shall send a copy of the order passed under sub-rule (1), without 
delay, to the following parties, namely: - 


(a) the concerned person who is in violation or any other person concerning the 
violation; 


(b) the licensing authority under section 11 of the Act; and 
(c) the Chairman of the Central Board of Film Certification. 


A copy of the order passed under sub-rule (1) shall also be uploaded on the website of 
Central Board of Film Certification. 


8. Appellate authority. 


(1) 


(2) 


(3) 


(4) 


5) 


An appeal against the order of the authorised officer passed under sub-rule (1) of rule 7 shall 
be filed in writing before the deputy secretary or director to the Central Government (where 
the authorised officer is the under secretary) or the district magistrate of the relevant 
district (where the authorised officer is the additional district magistrate). 


Any appeal filed under sub-rule (1) shall be accompanied by a certified copy of the order 
against which the appeal is sought. 


An appeal under sub-rule (1) must be filed within thirty days from the date on which a 
copy of the order of penalty made by the authorised officer under sub-rule (1) of rule 7 is 
received by the concerned person and, where justified, delay may be condoned by the 
appellate authority up to thirty days more, with reasons to be recorded in writing. 


Any appeal under sub-rule (1) shall be filed in the form annexed to these rules 
accompanied by such fees as may be specified by the Central Government. 


Where the aggrieved person is represented by an authorised representative, a copy of such 
authorisation in favour of the representative, in the form of an authorization letter, and 
the written consent of such authorised representative, shall be appended to the appeal. 


8 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)] 


(6) An appeal filed under sub-rule (1) of this rule shall not seek relief against more than one 
order unless the reliefs prayed for under the appeal are consequential. 


9. Procedure for appeal. 


(1) The Appellate Authority shall serve a notice along with a copy of the appeal, to the 
authorised officer against whose order the appeal has been preferred, requiring such 
authorised officer to file a reply within a period not exceeding twenty one days from the 
date of receipt of the notice. 


(2) Where an appeal is found to be defective, the appellate authority may allow the appellant 
not less than fourteen days following the date of receipt of intimation by the appellant from 
the appellate authority about the nature of the defects, to rectify the defects. 


(3) If the appellant fails to rectify the defects, the appellate authority may by order and for 
reasons to be recorded in writing, decline to register such appeal and communicate such 
refusal to the appellant within a period of seven days from the date of expiry of the time 
specified under sub-rule (2). 


(4) The appellate authority may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, extend the period 
referred to in sub-rule (1), by a further period of twenty one days, if the authorised officer 
satisfies the appellate authority that there was sufficient cause for delay in filing reply to 
the appeal. 


(5) Acopy of every reply, application or written representation filed by the authorised officer 
before the appellate authority shall be simultaneously served on the appellant, by the 
authorised officer. 


(6) The appellate authority shall issue notice of hearing of appeal to the appellant and the 
authorised officer, at least fifteen days before the date of hearing of the appeal. 


(7) The appellate authority may, at the time of hearing of an appeal, allow an appellant to add 
any ground of appeal not specified in the form of appeal annexed to the rules, if it is 
satisfied that the omission of that ground from the grounds of appeal was not wilful or 
unreasonable. 


(8) The appellate authority may fix a date for hearing and after making such further inquiry as 
may be necessary and subject to the reasons to be recorded in writing, pass any order as it 
thinks fit. 


(9) If the appellant or the authorised officer fails to appear on the date fixed for hearing, the 
appellate authority may pass an order in the absence of such person, after recording the 
reasons for passing such order. 


(10) The appellate authority shall, where it is possible to do so, hear and decide every appeal 
within a period of six months from the date of receipt of the appeal. 


(11) Where the issuance of order is stayed by an order of a court, the period of such stay shall 
be excluded in computing the period of six months for deciding the appeal. 


(12) Every order passed under this rule shall be dated and signed by the appellate authority. 


(13) A certified copy of every order passed by the appellate authority shall without delay be 
communicated to the authorised officer, the appellant, and the Chairman, Central Board of 
Film Certification. 


10. Method of making payment of penalty. 
The penalty shall be paid through the e-cinemapramaan portal only. 
11. Consolidated Fund of India. 


All sums realised by way of penalties under the Act shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund of India. 


BR i ಸಂಡೇ ಜೇ ok 


[೪777 11.೫7೯ 3(i)] ಇತ AT UST» AAT ITT 9 


Annexure 
[See sub-rule (4) of rule 8] 
FORM OF APPEAL 
Particulars Of the Appeal 
In the matter of appeal against the order made by..............on date... 0. ee 
1. Details of the appellant: 


(a) Full name of the appellant: 
(b) Address of the appellant: 
(c) Email ID of the appellant: 


2. Details of the authorised officer: 
(a) Name of the authorised officer: 
(b) Address of the authorised officer: 
(c) Email ID of the authorised officer: 
Appeal against order no.: 


4. Section under which the penalty was imposed: 


5. Facts of the case in brief: 


_[ 


6. Grounds for appeal: 


PT 


7. Penalty imposed (in rupees): 


8. Relief sought: 


PO 


9. Attachments: 
(a) Certified copy of the order 
(b) Certified copy of authorisation letter for the authorised representative (if any) 
(c) Any other attachments relevant to the case 


Declaration 


L , certify that all the information given hereinabove is true, correct and complete including the 
attachments to this form and nothing material has been suppressed. It is further declared that no other appeal, 
suit, civil revision or any other legal proceedings is pending before any authority on the similar matter. 


Signature of Appellant 


[M-11017/5/2024-DO(FC)] 
VRUNDA MANOHAR DESAI, Joint Secy. 


Uploaded by Dte. of Printing at Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064 
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-110054. manos Digitally signed by 


MANOJ KUMAR VERMA, 
KUMAR Date: 2024.06.08 


VERMA 13:58:03 +05'30 


ಭಾಗ ೪ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಸೋಮವಾರ, ೧೨, ಆಗಸ್ಟ್‌, ೨೦೨೪ ೭೪೩ 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪಾಲರ ಆದೇಶಾನುಸಾರ 
ಮತ್ತು ಅವರ ಹೆಸರಿನಲ್ಲಿ 
(ಅಫೀಫಾ ಉಸ್ಮಾನಿ) 
ಸಹಾಯಕ ಪ್ರಾರೂಪಕಾರ ಮತ್ತು ಪದನಿಮಿತ್ತ 
ಸರ್ಕಾರದ ಉಪ ಕಾರ್ಯದರ್ಶಿ 


ಸಂಸದೀಯ ವ್ಯವಹಾರಗಳು ಮತ್ತು 
ಶಾಸನ ರಚನೆ ಇಲಾಖೆ 
PR-44 
ಸಂಸದೀಯ ವ್ಯವಹಾರಗಳು ಮತ್ತು ಶಾಸನ ರಚನೆ ಇಲಾಖೆ 
ಅಧಿಸೂಚನೆ 
ಸಂಖ್ಯೆ: ಸ೦ವ್ಯಶಾಇ 13 ಕೇವಿಪ್ರ 2024 ಬೆ೦ಗಳೂರು, ದಿನಾ೦ಕ: 08.08.2024. 


ದಿನಾ೦ಕ: 21.06.2024 BOW ಭಾರತ ಸರ್ಕಾರದ ಗೆಜೆಟ್‌ನ ವಿಶೇಷ ಸ೦ಚಿಕೆಯ 88ಗ-0- 
Section-3 Sub Section (0ರಲ್ಲಿ ಪ್ರಕಟವಾದ the Boiler (Inquiry, Adjudication and Appeal) Rules, 
20240 Notification-GSR 339(೧ನ್ಭ್ಚು ಸಾರ್ವಜನಿಕರ ಮಾಹಿತಿಗಾಗಿ 
ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರದಲ್ಲಿ ಮರು ಪ್ರಕಟಿಸಲಾಗಿದೆ. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 
(Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade) 
NOTIFICATION 
New Delhi, the 21st June, 2024 


G.S.R. 339(E). —In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) and clauses (ca) and (cb) of 
sub-section (1A) of section 28A of the Boilers Act, 1923 (5 of 1923), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following rules, namely:- 


1. Short title and commencement. —(1) These rules may be called the Boiler (Inquiry, Adjudication and Appeal) 
Rules, 2024. 


(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 


8 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)] 


2. Definitions.—1) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, —— 
(a) “Act” means the Boilers Act, 1923 (5 of 1923), 


(b) “adjudicating officer” means the District Magistrate or the Additional District Magistrateauthorised under 
sub-section (1) of section 26A of the Act; 


(c) “appellant” means a person aggrieved with an order of adjudicating officer and prefers an appeal before the 
appellate authority under sub-section (1) of section 26B of the Act; 


(d) “appellate authority” means an officer authorised under sub- section (1) of section 26B of the Act; 
(e) “form” means a form appended to the these rules; 


(2) The words and expressions used in these rules and not defined, but defined in the Act, shall have the same 
meanings respectively assigned to them in theAct 


3. Application—these rules shall apply to all Union territories. 


4. Complaint. —Any person including an inspector may file a complaint in Form-I through electronic means or 
speed post or by hand to the adjudicating officer regarding any contravention committed under section 22, 23, sub- 
section (1) of section 25 and 30 the Act. 


5. Holding of Inquiry. —(1) For the purpose of adjudication under section 26A of the Act whether any person 
has committed any contravention as specified in that section, the adjudicating officer shall, issue a notice in Form- 
IIto such person requiring him to show cause within such period as may be specified in the notice (being not less 
than seven days from the date of service thereof) why an inquiry should not be held against him. 


(2) Every notice under sub-rule (1) shall indicate the nature of contravention alleged to have been committed. 


(3) After considering the cause, if any, shown by such person, the adjudicating officer is of the opinion that an 
inquiry should be held, he shall issue a notice requiring the appearance of that person personally or through a 
representative dulyauthorised by him on such date as may be fixed in the notice. 


(4) On the date fixed, the adjudicating officer shall explain to the person proceeded against or his authorised 
representative, the contravention, committed by such person and the provision of the Act, in respect of which 
contravention is alleged to have been committed. 


(5) The adjudicating officer shall, then, give an opportunity to such person to produce such documents or 
evidence under Form-III as he may consider relevant to the inquiry and if necessary, the hearing may be adjourned 
to a future date and in taking such evidence the adjudicating officer shall not be bound to observe the provisions of 
the Bhartiya SakshyaAdhiniyam, 2023 (47 of 2023). 


(6) While holding an inquiry under this rule, the adjudicating officer may require and enforce the attendance of 
any person acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the case to give evidence or to produce any document 
which in the opinion of the adjudicating officer may be useful for or relevant to the subject matter of the inquiry. 


(7) If any person fails, neglects or refuses to appear as required under sub-rule (3) before the adjudicating officer, 
the adjudicating officer may proceed with the inquiry in the absence of such person after recording the reasons for 
doing so. 


(8) If, upon consideration of the evidence produced before the adjudicating officer, the adjudicating officer is 
satisfied that the person has committed the contravention, he may by order in writing, impose such penalty under 
the Act as he considers reasonable. 


(9) Every order made under sub-rule (8) shall specify the provision of the Act in respect of which contravention 
has been committed and shall contain the reasons for imposing the penalty. 


(10) Every order made under sub-rule (8) shall be dated and signed by the adjudicating officer. 


(11)A copy of the order made under this rule and all other copies of proceedings shall be supplied free of cost to 
the complainant and the person against whom the inquiry was held and a copy of the order shall be forwarded to the 
Chief Inspector. 


(12) The adjudicating officer shall complete the proceeding within six months from the issuance of the notice to the 
opposite party 


(13) A notice or an order issued under these rules shall be served on the person against whom aninquiry is held, in 
any of the following manner: 


(i) by delivering or tendering it to that person or his authorised representative; or 


[೪777 11-೫೯5 31] ATT FT USS TAT ATT 9 


(ii) by sending it to the person through electronic means or by registered post or speed post to the address of 
his place of residence or his last known place of residence or the place where he carried on or last carried on, 
business or personally works or last worked for gain; or 


(iii) if it cannot be served in the manner specified under clauses (i) or (ii), by affixing it on the outer door or some 
other conspicuous part of the premises in which that person resides or is known to have last resided or carried on 
business or personally works or has worked for gain. 


6. Appeal. — (1) Any person aggrieved by an order of the adjudicating officer under these rules, may prefer an 
appeal to the appellate authority under section 26B of the Act in Form-IV. 


(2) The appeal shall be filed with the appellate authority within a period of sixty days from the date ofthe order: 


Provided that, the appeal may be admitted after the expiry of the period of sixty days, if the appellant satisfies the 
appellate authority that he had sufficient cause for not preferring the appeal within such period. 


(3) The appeal shall be accompanied by a copy of order of adjudicating officer issued under sub-rule (8) of rule 
Sand a clear statement of facts appealed against, the grounds for appeal and the relevant section of the Act. 


(4) | Theappeal shall be filed in triplicate by the appellant in person or by his duly authorisedrepresentative in 
writing or by an advocate duly appointed in this behalf, or by registered post or speed post or through electronic 
means. 


(5) The appeal sent by post shall be deemed to have been filed to the appellate authority on the day it is 
received. 


(6) If on scrutiny, the appeal is found to be in order, it shall be admitted and if the appeal is found to be 
defective, the same shall, after notice to the party, be returned for compliance and if within twenty one days of receipt 
of such notice or within such extended time as may be granted, the defect is not rectified, the appellate authority, may, 
for reasons to be recorded in writing, decline to admit the appeal. 


(7) A copy of the appeal shall be served by the appellate authority on the respondent, by hand or by registered 
post or speed post or through electronic means. 


(8) Respondent may, within thirty days of service of notice of appeal, file reply to the appellate authority. 


(9)The appellate authority may call for the records relating to the proceedings from the respective adjudicating 
officer. 


(10) The appellate authority may, after giving the parties to the appeal an opportunity of being heard, pass such 
orders as he may consider reasonable. 


(11)The appellate authority shall dispose of the appeal within sixty days from the date of admission of appeal. 


7. Extension of time. — The adjudicating officer or the appellate authority may, for reasons to be recorded in 
writing, where there is a reasonable cause for the delay or failure to act, extend any period specified in these rules till 
such period as he considers reasonable 


8. Order and penalties. — (1) Every order under these rules, shall be dated, signed and communicated to all the 
parties. 


(2) All sums realised by way of penalties under these rules shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund of India 


10 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)] 


Form -I 
[See rule 4] 
To 


District / Additional District Magistrate 


Subject: Operation of Boiler in contravention of the Boilers Act, 1923. 


Sir/Madam, 
It has come to the knowledge of the undersigned thatcontravention hasbeen committed under 
section ----------------------------------------- of the Boilers Act, 1923 in a boiler having register number 
ಬಟ ರ ಪ ಲಾ ್ಮ್ಮ್ಮ 
owner name--------------------------------- in the premises of M/s------------------------------- at---------------------- 


wane anna nn nnn nnn (copy of the information / report( if any) is attached). 


2. The above contravention is liable for penalty under the Boilers Act,1923 . Therefore, as per the Boiler 
(Inquiry, Adjudication and Appeal) Rules, 2024, you are requested to take appropriate action as adjudicating 
officer as per section 26A of the Boilers Act, 1923 for adjudication of the contravention. 


Name and address 


of the complainant 


Dated: 


Place: 


[೪77 11-೫೯5 31] ATT FT USS TATA 11 


Form -11 
[See sub-rule (1) of rule 5] 
To 


SHOW CAUSE NOTICE 


Sub: Operation of Boiler in contravention of the Boilers Act, 1923. 


Sir/Madam, 
As per the complaint received in Form-I dated (copy enclosed), contraventionhas been 
committed under section ------------------------ of the Boilers Act, 1923 in a boiler having register number 


ಪಾ ೬೬೨೨೬010007 No............... OWner mame-------------------------- in your premises at 


2. The above contravention is liable for penalty. Therefore, you are required to show cause within a period of ------ 
days of service of this notice, why an inquiry should not be initiated against you under section 26A of the Boilers 
Act,1923 for imposition of penalty. In case, no reply is received within the given period, the further action shall be 
taken under the Act. 


District /Additional District Magistrate & 


Adjudicating Officer 


12 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)] 


FORM-II 
Furnishing of document or evidence by or on behalf of the contravener 
[See sub-rule (5) of rule 5] 


To 
District / Additional District Magistrate 


hereby give a counter statement to the complaint made in Form-I 


The grounds in which the counter statement is made are as follows: - 


Complete address including postal index 
number/code and state along with mobile 
number and e-mail. 


3. | Signature of the contraveneror his 
authorised representative: 


4. | Name of the person alongwith mobile 
numberwho has signed 


[೪777 11-೫೯5 3(i)] ATT FT UST : TATA 13 


FORM-IV 
Appeal 
[See sub-rule (1) of rule 6] 


To 
Appellate Authority, 


1. | Particular ofappellant: __ಡ_ಚ 


2. | Grounds of appeal: 
(A copy of order of adjudicating officer to be enclosed) 


pO 
pO 
pO 
Date of order of the adjudicating officer: ee 


Statement of facts: 


......4, the appellant hereby declare that the facts stated herein above are correct to the best of my/our 
knowledge, information and belief. 


Signature of appellant and date: 


Name of appellant: 


[F. No. P-30015/1/2024-Boiler] 
Dr. SANDHYA BHULLAR, Jt. Secy. 


Uploaded by Dte. of Printing at Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064 
and Published by the Controller of Publications, 12011-110054. ೫5 (008 [ಗ 


SRIVASTAVA 


ಭಾಗ ೪ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಸೋಮವಾರ, ೧೨, ಆಗಸ್ಟ್‌, ೨೦೨೪ ೭೫೧ 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪಾಲರ ಆದೇಶಾನುಸಾರ 
ಮತ್ತು ಅವರ ಹೆಸರಿನಲ್ಲಿ 
(ಅಫೀಫಾ ಉಸ್ಮಾನಿ) 
ಸಹಾಯಕ ಪ್ರಾರೂಪಕಾರ ಮತ್ತು ಪದನಿಮಿತ್ತ 
ಸರ್ಕಾರದ ಉಪ ಕಾರ್ಯದರ್ಶಿ 


ಸಂಸದೀಯ ವ್ಯವಹಾರಗಳು ಮತ್ತು 
ಶಾಸನ ರಚನೆ ಇಲಾಖೆ 
PR-45 
ಸಂಸದೀಯ ವ್ಯವಹಾರಗಳು ಮತ್ತು ಶಾಸನ ರಚನೆ ಇಲಾಖೆ 
ಅಧಿಸೂಚನೆ 
ಸಂಖ್ಯೆ: ಸ೦ವ್ಯಶಾಇ 14 ಕೇವಿಪ್ರ 2024 ಬೆ೦ಗಳೂರು, ದಿನಾ೦ಕ: 08.08.2024. 


ದಿನಾ೦ಕ: 23.06.2024 BOW ಭಾರತ ಸರ್ಕಾರದ ಗೆಜೆಟ್‌ನ ವಿಶೇಷ ಸ೦ಚಿಕೆಯ 88ಗ-0- 
Section-3 Sub Section (0ರಲ್ಲಿ ಪ್ರಕಟವಾದ the Public Examinations (Prevention of Unfair 
Means) Rules, 20240 Notification-GSR 342(೧ನ್ನು ಸಾರ್ವಜನಿಕರ ಮಾಹಿತಿಗಾಗಿ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ 
ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರದಲ್ಲಿ ಮರು ಪ್ರಕಟಿಸಲಾಗಿದೆ,- 


6 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)] 


MINISTRY OF PERSONNEL, PUBLIC GRIEVANCES AND PENSIONS 
(Department of Personnel And Training) 
NOTIFICATION 
New Delhi, the 23rd June, 2024 


G.S.R. 342(E).—In exercise of the powers conferred by section 16 of the Public Examinations (Prevention 
of Unfair Means) Act, 2024 (1 of 2024), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely: - 


CHAPTER-I 
PRELIMINARY 


1. Short title and commencement. - (1) These rules may be called the Public Examinations (Prevention of Unfair 
Means) Rules, 2024. 


(2) They shall come into force from the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 
2. Definitions.- (1) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires:- 
(a) ‘Act’ means the Public Examinations (Prevention of Unfair Means) Act, 2024 (1 of 2024); 


(b) “centre coordinator” means a representative of the public examination authority deputed at public 
examination centre for coordination of activities of different service providers and public examination 
authority; and for overseeing the compliance of all norms or standards and guidelines notified for conduct 
of public examinations; 


(c) “guidelines” means the guidelines notified by the Central Government from time to time; 


(d) “norms or standards” means set of mandatory requirements with regard to the conduct of public 
examinations, as notified by the Central Government, from time to time; 


(e) “Regional Officer” means an officer-in-charge, not below the rank of Deputy Secretary to the 
Government, designated for the region, by the public examination authority; 


(f) “venue-in-charge” means a person nominated by the examination conducting service provider to 
supervise, coordinate and manage the activities of different service providers and to ensure that the norms 
or standards and the guidelines notified for conduct of public examination are complied with. 


(2) Words and expressions used herein but not defined and defined under any other law for the time being in force, 
shall have the same meaning as assigned to them in those Acts. 


CHAPTER II 


ENGAGEMENT OF SERVICES OF OTHER GOVERNMENT AGENCIES BY THE PUBLIC 
EXAMINATION AUTHORITY 


3. Engagement of services of other government agencies by public examination authority.- (1) When a public 
examination authority engages the services of another public examination authority for conduct of public 
examination, the latter public examination authority shall not be covered under the definition of ‘service provider’: 


(2) The schools, educational institutions and other premises owned or controlled by the Central Government or State 
Government, Public Sector Undertakings, autonomous bodies and other Government Organisations shall not be 
covered under the definition of ‘service provider’. 


(3) If it is established that the staff (including contractual staff) of the institutions referred to in sub rule (2) resorts to 
unfair means or commits an offence, he shall be dealt with in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Act. 


CHAPTER-II 
COMPUTER BASED TEST 


4. Computer Based Test.- (1) The computer based test includes activities, such as registration of candidates, 
allocation of centres, issue of admit cards, opening and distribution of question papers at public examination centres, 
evaluation and final recommendations. 


(2) The opening and distribution of question papers, in relation to computer based test means downloading the 
question paper from the main server to the local server in the public examination centre, as authorized by the public 
examination authority, uploading and digitally transferring the question papers from the local server to individual 
computers authorised for the candidates in the concerned public examination centres. 


[೪71 11. ೫7೯ 3(i)] ಇಗ HT ISS: TATA 7 


CHAPTER-IV 
NORMS, STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES FOR THE 
COMPUTER BASED TEST 


5. Preparations of norms, standards and guidelines.- (1) The National Recruitment Agency, on behalf of the 
Central Government, shall in consultation with the stakeholders, prepare norms, standards and guidelines for the 
computer based test mode of examination, which shall be notified by the Central Government. 


(2) The norms, standards and guidelines shall cover physical and digital infrastructure and activities which include - 


(a) standard operating procedure for registration of public examination centres; 


f) specifications for electronic platform for conduct of computer based test; 


(0) space requirement within the computer based test centres; 
(c) layout of the seating arrangement; 

(d) specifications and layout of computer nodes; 

(e) specifications for the server and network infrastructure; 

( 

( 


Qg) pre-examination activities, such as pre-audit for the examination readiness of the public examination 
centres; 


h) candidate check in, biometric registration, security and screening; 

) seat allocation; 

(j) | question paper setting and loading; 

॥)  invigilation in the examination; 

1) post examination activities; checklist and declarations; 

m) guidelines for providing scribes; and 

n) any other activity associated with conduct of public examination. 
CHAPTER-V 

CENTRE COORDINATOR FOR PUBLIC EXAMINATION 


6. The public examination authority may avail services of serving or retired employees of the Central Government, 
State Government, Public Sector Undertakings, Public Sector Banks, Government Universities, autonomous bodies 
and other Government Organisations for assigning duty as Centre Coordinator or any other public examination related 
duties. 


CHAPTER-VI 
REPORTING OF INCIDENTS OF UNFAIR MEANS OR OFFENCES 


hs Reporting of incidents of unfair means or offences.- (1) If any incident of unfair means or offence in 
connection with the conduct of public examination occurs, the venue-in-charge shall prepare a report along with his 
findings in Form 1. The report in Form 1 shall be sent to the Regional Officer through Centre Coordinator. If a prima 
facie case is made out for filing of First Information Report, the venue-in-charge shall take necessary action. Regional 
Officer may review the report received and cause appropriate action to be taken, which may include filing of First 
Information Report. 


(2) In case, persons, below the level of Management or Board of Directors of the service provider, resort to 
unfair means or commit an offence or are involved in facilitating an offence, or fail to report the incident as per sub- 
section (2) of section 8 of the Act, the Centre Coordinator shall report the matter to the Regional Officer in Form 2. 
The Regional Officer shall enquire and if satisfied that representative of any service provider at examination center 
level is involved, he shall direct the Centre Coordinator to file the First Information Report. In case, the Regional 
Officer arrives at a conclusion that no First Information Report is required to be filed, he shall record reasons therefor. 


(3) In case, the Regional Officer concludes that, prima facie, there is involvement of Management or Board of 
Directors of service provider, he shall report the details of the incident, enclosing his findings, along with Form 2 to 
the public examination authority. 


(4) The cases referred in sub-rule (3) shall be referred to a committee to be constituted by the public examination 
authority which shall examine the report of the Regional Officer and submit its findings to the public examination 
authority for appropriate decision. 


8 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)] 


(5) The committee referred to in sub-rule (4), shall comprise of a senior official from the public examination 
authority, an expert member to be nominated by the public examination authority and a member from the Ministry or 
Department (not below the rank of Director) to which the public examination authority reports. 


(6) All incidents of unfair means or offence in connection with the conduct of public examination shall be reported to 
the public examination authority by Regional officer along with the details of action taken from time to time. 


CHAPTER-VII 
PROCEDURE TO BE FOLLOWED IN RESPECT OF PUBLIC SERVANT 


8. Procedure to be followed in respect of public servant.- (1) The public examination authority, on receipt of 
report of Regional officer or otherwise, regarding the actions of a public servant deputed for conduct of public 
examination shall examine whether anything done in conduct of public examination by the public servant was in good 
faith as referred to in section 14 of the Act. 


(2) A committee may be constituted by the public examination authority for the purpose of sub rule (1), which shall 
be headed by an officer not below the rank of Joint Secretary or equivalent and shall comprise of one senior officer 
from the public examination authority and an expert to be nominated by the public examination authority 


(3) The Committee shall examine all relevant information and submit its finding to the public examination authority 
for appropriate action. 


CHAPTER-VIII 


MONITORING 
9. Every public examination authority shall set up a mechanism for monitoring the implementation of 
provisions of the Act. 
FORM -1 


[See rule 7] 
FORMAT FOR REPORTING OF UNFAIR MEANS OR OFFENCE BY VENUE IN CHARGE 
PART 1: PRELIMINARY DETAILS 
1. Name of public examination authority 
2. Details of public examination (including date and location of centre): 
3. Name and identity of complainant 
(Attach copy of identity proof) 
4. Date and place of occurrence of unfair means or offence: 
PART 2: DETAILS OF UNFAIR MEANS OR OFFENCE 
1. Details of unfair means or offence 
2. Details of persons involved: 
PART 3: MATERIAL (EVIDENCES) AVAILABLE 


Copy of complaint, other documents, evidence or any other relevant material available with reference to the unfair 
means or offence 


PART 4: PARTICULARS OF WITNESSES 
Details (Name, address, contact details and identity proof) 


PART 5: FINDINGS 


1. Whether filing of First Information Report is required and reasons thereof 
2. Any other recommendation/ remark 
3. Date and time of sending the report to the Centre Coordinator 


(Signature) 


Name and complete details of Venue-In-Charge 


[೪777 11.೫7೯ 3(i)] ಇತ AT UST» ATA 9 


FORM -2 
[See rule 7] 


FORMAT FOR USE BY CENTRE COORDINATOR FOR REPORTING OF UNFAIR MEANS OR 
OFFENCE IN CASE SERVICE PROVIDER OR A PUBLIC SERVANT IS INVOLVED 


PART 1: PRELIMINARY DETAILS 


ಎ 


. Name of public examination authority 
2. Details of public examination (including date and location of centre) 
3. Details of service provider 
4. Name and identity of complainant (Attach copy of Identity proof) 
PART 2: DETAILS OF UNFAIR MEANS OR OFFENCE 


1. Name of person(s) of service provider involved 
2: Name of the public servant(s) involved 
3. Details of unfair means or offence 


PART 3: MATERIAL (EVIDENCES) AVAILABLE 
Copy of complaint, documents, evidence or any other material available with reference to unfair means or offence 
PART 4: PARTICULARS OF WITNESSES 
Details (Name, address, contact details and identity proof) 
PART 5: RECOMMENDATION FOR REGIONAL OFFICER 
(Signature) 
Name and full details of Centre Coordinator 


(Date and time of sending report to Regional Officer) 


[F.No. 39020/12/2023-00(8.1)] 
MANOJ KUMAR DWIVEDI, Addl. Secy. 


Uploaded by Dte. of Printing at Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064 
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-110054. 


Digitally signed by GORAKHA 
GORAKHA NATH YADAVA NATH YADAVA. 
Date: 2024,06,24 14:09:02 +05'30 


೭೫೬ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಸೋಮವಾರ, ೧೨, ಆಗಸ್ಟ್‌ ೨೦೨೪ ಭಾಗ೪ 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪಾಲರ ಆದೇಶಾನುಸಾರ 
ಮತ್ತು ಅವರ ಹೆಸರಿನಲ್ಲಿ 
(ಅಫೀಫಾ ಉಸ್ಮಾನಿ) 
ಸಹಾಯಕ ಪ್ರಾರೂಪಕಾರ ಮತ್ತು ಪದನಿಮಿತ್ತ 
ಸರ್ಕಾರದ ಉಪ ಕಾರ್ಯದರ್ಶಿ 


ಸಂಸದೀಯ ವ್ಯವಹಾರಗಳು ಮತ್ತು 
ಶಾಸನ ರಚನೆ ಇಲಾಖೆ 
PR-46 
ಸಂಸದೀಯ ವ್ಯವಹಾರಗಳು ಮತ್ತು ಶಾಸನ ರಚನೆ ಇಲಾಖೆ 
ಅಧಿಸೂಚನೆ 
ಸಂಖ್ಯೆ: ಸ೦ವ್ಯಶಾಇ 15 ಕೇವಿಪ್ರ 2024 ಬೆ೦ಗಳೂರು, ದಿನಾ೦ಕ: 08.08.2024. 


ದಿನಾ೦ಕ: 28.06.2024 ರಂದು ಭಾರತ ಸರ್ಕಾರದ ಗೆಜೆಟ್‌ನ ವಿಶೇಷ ಸ೦ಚಿಕೆಯ  Part-ll- 
Section-3 Sub Section (0ರಲ್ಲಿ ಪ್ರಕಟವಾದ the Anusandhan National Research Foundation 
Rules, 2024ರ Notification-GSR . 353(೧ನ್ನು ಸಾರ್ವಜನಿಕರ ಮಾಹಿತಿಗಾಗಿ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ 
ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರದಲ್ಲಿ ಮರು ಪ್ರಕಟಿಸಲಾಗಿದೆ,- 


8 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)] 


MINISTRY OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
(Department of Science and Technology) 
NOTIFICATION 
New Delhi, the 28th June, 2024 


G.S.R. 353(E).—Whereas certain draft rules, namely, the Anusandhan National Research Foundation 
(Qualifications, Experience, Honorarium, Allowances, and Other Terms and Conditions of Service of Members of the 
Governing Board and Executive Council) Rules, 2023; the Anusandhan National Research Foundation 
(Qualifications, Experience, Salary, Allowances, and Other Terms and Conditions of Service of Chief Executive 
Officer) Rules, 2023; the Anusandhan National Research Foundation (Form of Annual Statement of Accounts) Rules, 
2023 and the Anusandhan National Research Foundation (Budget and Annual Report) Rules, 2023, were published as 
required by sub-section (1) of section 23 of the Anusandhan National Research Foundation Act, 2023 (25 of 2023), in 
the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Science and Technology numbers G.S.R. 85 (E), G.S.R. 
86 (E), G.S.R. 87 (೧), G.S.R. 88 (0), dated the 274 February, 2024, in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, 
Section 3, Sub-section (i), dated the 234 February, 2024 for inviting objections and suggestions from all persons likely 
to be affected thereby; 


And whereas, the objections or suggestions received in respect of the said draft rules have been considered by 
the Central Government; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) read with clauses (a), (b), (c), (g), (h), 
(i) and (j) of sub-section (2) of section 23 of the Anusandhan National Research Foundation Act, 2023 (25 of 2023), 
the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely: — 


1. Short title and commencement. — (1) These rules may be called the Anusandhan National Research Foundation 
Rules, 2024. 


(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 
2. Definitions. — (1) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, — 


(a) ‘Act’ means the Anusandhan National Research Foundation Act, 2023 (25 of 2023), 


(b) “annual report” means the annual report prepared by the Executive Council under section 15 of the Act; 
(c) “budget” means the budget prepared by the Executive Council under section 14 of the Act; 
(d) “Form” means the forms appended to these rules; 


(e) “President” means a President of the Governing Board referred to in clause (a) of sub-section (2) of 
section 5 of the Act; 


(f) “Schedule” means the Schedule appended to these rules; 


(g) “Year” means a financial year beginning on the 1* day of April and ending on 315" day of March of the 
immediately following year. 


(2) Words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Act shall have the same meanings 
as assigned to them in the Act. 


3. Qualifications and experience of Members of Governing Board. — (1) The Members to be nominated or 
appointed under clause (a) of sub-section (3) of section 5 of the Act shall be Members of the Prime Minister’s 
Science, Technology and Innovation Council. 


(2) The Members to be nominated or appointed under clause (b) of sub-section (3) of section 5 of the Act shall be a 
person who has previously occupied or currently occupies a position of leadership at a business organisation or an 
industry. 


(3) The Member to be nominated or appointed under clause (c) of sub-section (3) of section 5 of the Act shall possess 
adequate experience in the field of humanities and social sciences. 


(4) The Members to be nominated or appointed under clause (d) of sub-section (3) of section 5 of the Act shall hold 
the position of head of a national laboratory or research or academic institution engaged in scientific and 
technological research and development, or senior scientist or senior faculty member in such institution, with 
adequate experience. 


(5) The Members to be nominated or appointed under clause (e) of sub-section (3) of section 5 of the Act shall 
possess a doctorate degree or other specialised educational qualification in one or more of the following fields, — 


(i) health; 


[MrT are 3(1)] ಇತ AT UST» ATA 9 


(ii) mathematical and physical sciences; 

(iii) biological sciences; 

(iv) engineering and technology; 

(v) innovation and partnership; 

(vi) computer and information sciences and engineering, 
and shall have adequate experience in the field. 


4. Qualification and experience of Members of Executive Council. — The Members to be nominated or appointed 
under clause (b) of sub-section (3) of section 7 of the Act shall — 


(a) possess doctorate degree or other specialised qualification in the fields of science and technology in 
academia, philanthropic sector, research laboratories or industries; and 


(b) have adequate experience in the field. 


5. Term of office of Members of Governing Board or Executive Council. — The Members of the Governing 
Board or Executive Council shall ordinarily hold office for a period of three years from the date of appointment, and 
shall be eligible for reappointment. 


6. Allowances for Members of Governing Board or Executive Council appointed. — (1) Every Member of the 
Governing Board nominated or appointed under sub-section (3) of section 5 of the Act or Executive Council 
nominated or appointed under clause (b) of sub-section (3) of section 7 of the Act, attending the meeting of the 
Governing Board or Executive Council whichever may be appropriate or for performing the functions of the 
Governing Board or Executive Council, shall be entitled to draw sitting fees, travelling and daily allowances and such 
other allowances as are admissible to Secretary to the Government of India. 


7. Procedure for selection of Chief Executive Officer. — (1) The President shall appoint the Chief Executive 
Officer based on the recommendations of a Search-cum-Selection Committee. 


(2) The President shall constitute a Search-cum-Selection Committee for recommending a panel of names for 
appointment of the Chief Executive Officer. 


8. Qualifications and experience of Chief Executive Officer. — (1) A person being considered for appointment as 
Chief Executive Officer shall possess — 
a) amiasters’ degree in science, or a bachelor’s degree in engineering or medicine, or a masters’ degree in 
management, with proven track record of research, or innovation, or technology development; and 


b) at least twenty years of experience as, — 


(i) a faculty or scientist in a recognised national or international university, or government department 
or research institution, or research laboratory of the Government or a company; or 


(ii) a senior managerial level in a company, with five years of experience in managing research and 
development programmes or projects. 


(2) A person considered for appointment under sub-rule (1) shall be appointed by direct 
recruitment or deputation/absorption including short-term contract. 


(3) <A person considered for appointment under sub-rule (1) shall not exceed sixty five years of 
age at the time of initial appointment. 


9. Term of office of Chief Executive Officer. — The Chief Executive Officer of the Foundation shall hold office for 
a period of three years from the date of assumption of charge, and shall be eligible for reappointment on such terms 
and conditions which may be determined from time to time: 


Provided that no person above the age of seventy years shall occupy the office of the Chief Executive 
Officer. 


10 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)] 


10. Conditions of service of Chief Executive Officer. — (1) Person from the Central Government or State 
Government or universities or recognised research institutions or Semi Government or statutory or autonomous 
organisations in India, appointed as the Chief Executive Officer on deputation shall be paid a salary and allowances of 
such amount, as may be applicable to Secretary to the Government of India. Terms and conditions of such 
appointment shall be as per the extant rules applicable to deputation. 


(2) Person from industry or private sector or overseas institution or Non-Government Organisation, or any other 
person not covered under sub-rule (1), appointed as the Chief Executive Officer, shall be given the following 
options, namely: — 


(a) a salary and allowances of such amount, as may be applicable to Secretary to the Government of India; or 


(b) a consolidated salary of sixty six lakh rupees (fixed) per annum which may be revised from time to time by 
the Central Government: 


Provided that the person who is in receipt of any pension from the Central Government or State Government, 
the pay of such person shall be reduced by the gross amount of pension drawn by him. 


(3) The Chief Executive Officer referred to in sub-rule (1) or clause (a) of sub-rule (2), shall be eligible for 
allotment of the Central Government residential accommodation in the general pool on the same terms as are 
admissible to Secretary to the Government of India. 


11. Leave, traveling and other allowances. — The Chief Executive Officer shall be entitled to leave, traveling and 
other allowances as admissible to Secretary to the Government of India. 


12. Entitlement to Central Government Health Scheme. — The Chief Executive Officer of the Foundation shall be 
entitled to the benefits of the Central Government Health Scheme on the terms and conditions laid down by the 
Central Government in this behalf. 


13. Functions of Chief Executive Officer. — The Chief Executive Officer shall be responsible for the efficient 
administration of the Foundation, and shall have the powers of general superintendence, direction and control in 
respect of all matters of the Foundation. 


14. Form for preparation of budget. — The Executive Council shall, prepare the budget, as approved by the 
Governing Board, for each financial year in Form “ಗಿ” specified in the Schedule appended to these rules and submit the 
same to the Central Government by 31“ October of every year. 


15. Preparation and furnishing of the annual report. — (1) The Executive Council shall prepare once a year an 
annual report and submit a copy of the same to the Central Government, giving a true and full account of the 
Foundation’s activities during the previous financial year in Form “13” specified in the Schedule, appended to these 
tules. 


(2) The Executive Council may also include in the annual report any other item, not included in Form ‘B’ 
specified in the Schedule, if so required to give a full account of the Foundation’s activities. 


(3) The Executive Council, shall forward the annual report to the Central Government within a period of one 
hundred and eighty days immediately following the close of the year for which it has been prepared for laying 
before each house of Parliament. 


16. Annual statement of accounts and other relevant records. — (1) At the end of every financial year, the 
Executive Council shall prepare its annual statements of accounts, balance sheet, income and expenditure account, and 
receipt and payment account in the Forms of financial statement as prescribed for such statutory bodies of the 
Government of India. 


(2) The approved statement of accounts of the Foundation shall be forwarded by the Executive Council to the 
Comptroller and Auditor General of India or any other person appointed by him on his behalf, for the 
purposes of audit, within three months of the end of the financial year. 


(3) The annual statement of accounts of the Foundation, as certified by the Comptroller and Auditor General 
of India or any other person appointed by him on his behalf, along with the audit report theron for every 
financial year shall be forwarded by Executive Council to the Central Government, for laying before each 
House of Parliament. 


[೪777 11--೫7೯ 3(i)] Me AT USTs : TAT ATT 11 


17. Maintenance of accounts. — The Executive Council shall preserve the balance sheet, the income and expenditure 
account, and the receipt and payment account referred to in sub-rule (1) of rule 16, for a period of at least five years, 
following the year to which they relate. 


18. Power to relax. — Where the Central Government is of the opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do, it 
may, by order and for reasons to be recorded in writing, relax any of the provisions of these rules. 


19. Matters with respect to which no provision has been made. - Matters with respect to which no express 
provision has been made in these rules, shall be referred to the Central Government for its decision. 


20. Interpretation. — If any queries relating to the interpretation of these rules arise, they shall be decided by the 
Governing Board. 


SCHEDULE 
Form “ಗಿ' 
[See rule 14] 


Part I 
ANUSANDHAN NATIONAL RESEARCH FOUNDATION 
Statement of Budget Estimates 
Plan Budget (All figures in Rs. lakh) 


Revised Estimates for the year: (current year) and 
Budget Estimates for the year: (next year) 


Item or Head Actual Budget Estimates | Proposed Revised | Proposed Budget 

Expenditure (current financial | Estimates (current | Estimates (next 

(last financial year) financial year) financial year) 
year) 


SALARY 


1.1 Pay and allowances 


1.2 Contribution to National 
Pension Scheme 


1.3 Contribution to Central 
Provident Fund 


1.4 Leave Travel 
Concession 


1.5 Medical Claim 


1.6 Gratuity 


OFFICE EXPENSES 


2.3 Electricity 
2.5 Procurement of furniture 


2.6 Vehicles 


2.7 Maintenance 


2.8 Internet, e-services 


2.1 Stationery 
2.2 Telephone 


12 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)] 


Item or Head Actual Budget Estimates | Proposed Revised | Proposed Budget 

Expenditure (current financial | Estimates (current | Estimates (next 

(last financial financial year) financial year) 
ear) 


Part II 
ANUSANDHAN NATIONAL RESEARCH FOUNDATION 
Receipts and Expenditure (All figures in Rs. lakh) 
Revised Estimates for the year: (current year) 


Receipts 


51. No. Particulars Revised Estimates 
(current year) 


Opening balance fi 


Grants or Receipts from the sources specified under section 13 of the Act 
Grants or Receipts from other sources 
Interest from bank 


Miscellaneous Receipts 


Capital Expenditure 


Revenue Expenditure 


Particulars Revised Estimates 
(current year) 


Form ‘B’ 
[See rule 15] 
THE ANNUAL REPORT 
(a) The Foundation 


(1) Composition of the Governing Board 

(2) Composition of the Executive Council 

(3) Organisational Chart and composition of and various Committees 

(4) Meetings of the Governing Board, Executive Council and other Committees held 
(5) Reports on activities of various Committees 


[೪777 11.೫7೯ 3(i)] ಇತ್‌ HT USTs: FATA 13 


(b) 


(c) 


(d) 


The Programmes 


(1) Major Programmes Supported 

(2) Major Schemes and Initiatives 

(3) Extramural Research Projects or Programmes funded 
(4) Important Research Highlights 

(5) Fellowships or Scholarships supported 

(6) Conferences or Seminars supported 

(7) International Programmes 


The Output 


(1) Number of papers or publications or reports emanating out of projects 
(2) Technologies or products emanating out of projects 


The Budget and Finance 


(1) Audited Financial Statements 
(2) Balance available in the Anusandhan National Research Foundation Fund, Innovation Fund, and Science and 
Engineering Research Fund. 


[F. No. DST/ANRF/Z-02/2023] 
A. DHANALAKSHMIL, Jt. Secy. 


Uploaded by Dte. of Printing at Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064 
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-110054. sarvesh kumar »» 


SRIVASTAVA Date 


ಭಾಗ ೪ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಸೋಮವಾರ, ೧೨, ಆಗಸ್ಟ್‌, ೨೦೨೪ ೭೬೩ 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪಾಲರ ಆದೇಶಾನುಸಾರ 
ಮತ್ತು ಅವರ ಹೆಸರಿನಲ್ಲಿ 
(ಅಫೀಫಾ ಉಸ್ಮಾನಿ) 
ಸಹಾಯಕ ಪ್ರಾರೂಪಕಾರ ಮತ್ತು ಪದನಿಮಿತ್ತ 
ಸರ್ಕಾರದ ಉಪ ಕಾರ್ಯದರ್ಶಿ 


ಸಂಸದೀಯ ವ್ಯವಹಾರಗಳು ಮತ್ತು 
ಶಾಸನ ರಚನೆ ಇಲಾಖೆ 
PR-47 
ಸಂಸದೀಯ ವ್ಯವಹಾರಗಳು ಮತ್ತು ಶಾಸನ ರಚನೆ ಇಲಾಖೆ 
ಅಧಿಸೂಚನೆ 
ಸಂಖ್ಯೆ: ಸ೦ವ್ಯಶಾಇ 16 ಕೇವಿಪ್ರ 2024 ಬೆ೦ಗಳೂರು, ದಿನಾ೦ಕ: 08.08.2024. 


ದಿನಾ೦ಕ: 01.03.2024 ರಂದು ಭಾರತ ಸರ್ಕಾರದ ಗೆಜೆಟ್‌ನ ವಿಶೇಷ ಸ೦ಚಿಕೆಯ 88ಗ-0- 
Section-3 Sub Section (ರಲ್ಲಿ ಪ್ರಕಟವಾದ the Press and Registration of Periodicals Rules, 
2024ರ Notification-GSR 151(೧ನ್ನು ಸಾರ್ವಜನಿಕರ ಮಾಹಿತಿಗಾಗಿ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರದಲ್ಲಿ 
ಮರು ಪ್ರಕಟಿಸಲಾಗಿದೆ,- 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 
NOTIFICATION 
New Delhi, the Ist March, 2024 

G.S.R. 151(E).—Whereas, the Draft Press and Registration of Periodicals Rules, 2024was published 
vide notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting number 
S.O. 73(E), dated the 5" January, 2024 inviting comments /suggestions from stakeholders and general public on 
these draft Rules, proposed to be issued under the powers conferred under section 19 of the Press and 
Registration of Periodicals Act, 2023 (51 of 2023) before expiry of thirty days from the publication of the said 
notification; 


And whereas, copies of the said Gazette were made available to the public on the 5" January, 2024; 

And whereas, the comments and suggestions received within the said period from the public and 
stakeholders in respect of the said draft rules have been duly considered by the Central Government; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 19 of the Press and Registration of 
Periodicals Act, 2023, the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely: - 
1. Short title, extent and commencement. - (1) These rules may be called the Press and Registration of Periodicals 
Rules, 2024, 
(2)They shall come into force from the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 
2. Definitions. - (1) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, - 
(a) “Act” means the Press and Registration of Periodicals Act, 2023 (51 of 2023); 
(b) “Bharat Kosh” means the online service window of the Government of India to deposit any fees or fine or other 

money into the Government Account; 

(c) “Central Bureau of Communication” means the attached office of the Central Government for dissemination of 


information on Government policies and programmes through advertising and outreach activities using various 
vehicles of communication including, audio-visual, print, electronic, digital, exhibitions and outdoor activities; 
(d) “entity” means an entity referred to in section 4 of the Act; 
(e) “Financial year” means the period beginning from the 1“ day of April and ending on the 31° day of March every 
year; 
(1) “National Single Window System” means the digital platform of the Central Government 
(https://www.nsws.gov.in) to guide persons in identifying and applying for various approvals, permissions and 
registrations; 
(g) “Press Information Bureau” means the attached office of the Central Government to disseminate information 
to print, electronic and social media on Government policies, programmes, initiatives and achievements, through 


8 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)] 


various interventions and activities including press releases, press notes, feature articles, backgrounders, press 
briefings, interviews, press conferences and press tours; 


(h) “Press Sewa Portal” means the online portal of the Press Registrar General for receiving various applications, 
intimations, and such other documents, including the following, namely: - 

(1) intimation by printer of a periodical; 

(ii) registration of facsimile edition of a foreign periodical; 

(iii) application by a publisher for obtaining a certificate of registration of a periodical; 

(iv) application for revision of certificate of registration; 

(v) application for transfer of ownership of certificate of registration; 

(vi) furnishing annual statement by the publisher of a periodical; 

(vii) guidelines for title allotment; 


(viii) | procedure for desk audit for verification of circulation of a periodical. 


(2) All other words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Act shall have the same 
meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act. 


3. Intimation by a printer.- (1)A printer of a periodical shall, within thirty days of starting a printing press of a 
periodical, send an intimation on the Press Sewa Portal along with the particulars and documents specified therein, to 
the Press Registrar General and the specified authority within whose jurisdiction the printing press is situated. 


(2) Where, after sending the intimation under sub-rule (1), any changes take place in the particulars mentioned in 
the intimation, the printer shall inform the Press Registrar General and the specified authority of the changes of the 
particulars. 


(3) Where the change in particulars involves change in location of the printing press falling under the local 
jurisdiction of another specified authority, the printer shall send a fresh intimation on the Press Sewa Portal to the 
Press Registrar General and the new specified authority, and also inform the original specified authority. 


4. Registration of facsimile edition of a foreign periodical. - (1) Any entity which intends to publish a facsimile 
edition of a foreign periodical in India shall apply on the National Single Window System for obtaining approval from 
the Central Government for such publication, along with all particulars, documents and fee specified therein, in 
accordance with the guidelines available on that system. 


(2) The Central Government shall, after seeking such additional information, as it deems necessary, grant 
approval to the entity for publication of the facsimile edition, subject to such terms and conditions as the Central 
Government may deem fit and communicate the same to the entity on the National Single Window System. 


(3) Where the Central Government is of the opinion that approval cannot be granted, it shall by a written order 
convey its decision, along with reasons for refusal, and communicate the same to the entity on the National Single 
Window System. 


(4) The entity shall, within fifteen days of grant of approval under sub-rule (2), make an application to the Press 
Registrar General on the Press Sewa Portal for the grant of certificate of registration for publication of the facsimile 
edition of the foreign periodical in India, along with such documents as may be specified on the Press Sewa Portal, 
and a fee of rupees ten thousand payable to Bharat Kosh through any mode of payment specified therein. 


(5) The Press Registrar General shall verify the application, and after satisfying itself of the correctness of the 
application and of the additional information, if any, obtained from the entity and taking into consideration the 
comments, if any, of the Central Government, issue a certificate of registration to the entity for the publication in India 
of facsimile edition of the foreign periodical. 


(6) The entity shall commence publication of the facsimile edition in India only after it is granted a certificate of 
registration under sub-rule (5) and if the entity has commenced publication of facsimile edition before grant of 
certificate, the Press Registrar General may refuse to grant certificate of registration to such entity and inform the 
Central Government of such publication. 


(7) The Central Government may on its own or based on information received from the Press Registrar General 
or any other authority regarding publication of the facsimile edition in India before the grant of certificate of 
registration under sub-rule (5), suspend or cancel the approval granted by it to such entity under sub-rule (2). 


5. Grant of certificate of registration of a periodical. - (1) A publisher intending to start a periodical shall make an 
online application to the Press Registrar General on the Press Sewa Portal along with such documents as may be 
specified therein and a fee of rupees one thousand payable to Bharat Kosh through any mode of payment specified 
therein, while ensuring adherence to the guidelines on title allotment issued by the Press Registrar General, available 
on the Press Sewa Portal. 


[೪777 11-೫೯೯ 3(i)] HIST BT USAT: ೫೫7೫೧೫ 9 


(2) The application under sub-rule (1) which is addressed to the Press Registrar General shall also be endorsed to 
the specified authority within whose local jurisdiction the periodical is proposed to be published and sent online from 
the Press Sewa Portal. 


(3) Upon successful uploading of the application, the Press Sewa Portal shall generate an acknowledgement 
along with a unique ten-digit alphanumeric Applicant Reference Number, and the publisher and the Press Registrar 
General shall use the Applicant Reference Number for all future correspondences and references. 


(4) Where the publisher intends to make any corrections or remove any omissions or error in the application 
furnished under sub-rule (1), he may do so within five days of furnishing such application. 


(5) If on verification of the application, the Press Registrar General finds any deficiencies, he shall, within seven 
working days of receipt of the application, and the further time specified under sub-rule (4), issue an online 
communication to the publisher specifying the deficiencies. 


(6) The publisher shall, within a period not exceeding thirty days of receiving the communication referred to in 
sub-rule (5), remove all deficiencies by submitting all requisite details and particulars on the Press Sewa Portal and 
failure to do so within the specified period of thirty days shall render the application liable to be rejected by the Press 
Registrar General. 


(7) The Press Registrar General shall, after verifying the application and taking into consideration comments, if 
any, received from the specified authority on the Press Sewa Portal and the guidelines regarding admissibility of the 
title, is satisfied that - 


(a) the deficiency has been removed, issue a certificate of registration to the publisher in the format specified in 
the Press Sewa Portal, and endorse a copy thereof to the specified authority; 


(b) the application remains deficient or the deficiencies have not been removed by the publisher within the 
specified time, issue an online communication to the publisher providing the reasons as to why registration may not be 
granted and afford ten days’ time to the publisher to submit a reply thereto on the Press Sewa Portal. 


(8) The Press Registrar General may, after taking into consideration the written reply of the publisher under 
clause (b) of sub-rule (7), either grant or refuse to grant the certificate of registration of the periodical: 


Provided that where the Press Registrar General decides that registration shall be not granted, he shall pass a 
speaking order specifying the grounds and reasons for the same and communicate it to the publisher on the Press Sewa 
Portal. 


6. Revision of particulars of certificate of registration. - (1) If any revision in the particulars of the certificate of 
registration granted to a publisher under Rule 5 is required, such publisher may make an application to the Press 
Registrar General on the Press Sewa Portal, along with documents specified therein and a fee of rupees one thousand 
payable to Bharat Kosh through any mode of payment specified therein. 


(2) The particulars for which an application for revision of the certificate may be made by the publisher may 
include: - 


(a) the language of the periodical; 

(b) the title of the periodical; 

(c) the editor of the periodical; 

(d) the printing press of the periodical; 

(e) the place of publication of the periodical within the State or Union Territory; 

(f) the periodicity of the periodical. 
(3) If, on the verification of the application made under sub-rule (1), the Press Registrar General finds that there 
is change in the specified authority due to change in the place of publication under clause (e) of sub-rule (2), he shall, 
within a period of sixty days from the date of receipt of the application, obtain comments of the specified authority 
under whose jurisdiction the new place of publication is located, and on being satisfied of the correctness of all 


particulars in the application, issue a revised certificate of registration in respect of the periodical preferably within 
fifteen working days of obtaining comments of the specified authority, and endorse a copy to the specified authority. 


(4) If the owner of a periodical to whom certificate of registration is granted under rule 5 intends to change the 
publisher, the new publisher shall make an application for a revised certificate of registration and all the provisions of 
rule 5 shall apply. 


7, Transfer of ownership of periodical.-(1)Where the owner of a periodical in respect of which certificate of 
registration has been granted under rule 5 intends to transfer the ownership of that periodical to any other person or 
entity, such person or entity being the transferee, may apply for change of ownership of the periodical by making an 
application to the Press Registrar General on the Press Sewa Portal along with the documents specified therein and a 
fee of rupees one thousand payable to Bharat Kosh through any mode of payment specified therein. 


10 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART 11-550. 3(i)] 


(2) The application made under sub-rule (1) shall also be endorsed by the transferee to the specified authority 
within whose local jurisdiction the principal place of business of the transferee is situated, and sent online to the 
specified authority from the Press Sewa Portal. 


(3) The Press Registrar General shall verify the application and obtain comments of the new specified authority 
within a period of sixty days from the date of receipt of application and after being satisfied of the correctness of the 
application, grant permission for change of ownership of the periodical. 


(4) If after taking into consideration the comments of the specified authority and other factors, the Press 
Registrar General is of the opinion that permission for change of ownership may not be granted, he shall issue an 
online communication to the owner providing reasons as to why such change of ownership may not be granted and 
afford ten days’ time to the owner to submit a written reply thereto. 


(5) The Press Registrar General may, after taking into consideration the written reply of the owner, either permit 
the change in ownership and issue a written permission for the change on the Press Sewa Portal, or refuse to grant 
permission for change in ownership: 


Provided that where the Press Registrar General decides that permission for change of ownership may be not 
granted, he shall pass a speaking order specifying the grounds and reasons for the same and communicate it to the 
owner of the periodical. 


(6) Where the application for transfer is limited only to the change in ownership of the periodical, the Press 
Registrar shall issue a revised certificate of registration: 


Provided that where the change in ownership involves change in any other particulars of the periodical, the 
publisher or the new publisher, as the case may be, shall make an application for grant of registration in the manner 
provided in rule 5, within thirty days of the receipt of the permission for change of ownership granted under 
sub-rule (3). 


(7) Where the owner of a periodical is a company registered under the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) and 
the shareholding pattern of the company undergoes any change from the shareholding pattern at the time of grant of 
certificate of registration of the periodical under these rules, the authorised person in the company shall intimate the 
Press Registrar General on the Press Sewa Portal of the changes made, giving full details of the names, address and 
other particulars of the new shareholders, along with such other documents specified in the Press Sewa Portal. 


8. Discontinuation of a periodical.-Where an owner of a periodical, who has been granted a certificate of registration 
under these rules decides to discontinue the publication of the periodical, he shall, within six months of such 
discontinuation, send an online intimation to the Press Registrar General and the specified authority, on the Press 
Sewa Portal. 


9. Annual statement. -(1) A publisher who has been granted a certificate of registration under these rules shall furnish 
an annual statement by the 31" May of a calendar year, in respect of the preceding financial year, on the Press Sewa 
Portal, containing the particulars and documents specified on that Portal. 


(2) Where the publisher, due to circumstances beyond his control, is unable to furnish the annual statement 
within the time mentioned in sub-rule (1), he may, with the prior approval of the Press Registrar General, furnish the 
annual statement within such extended period as the Press Registrar General may permit, having regard to the 
circumstances for such delay but no such extension shall be granted beyond 31 December of the calendar year. 


10. Delivery of periodicals. - (1) The publisher shall, within forty-eight hours of publication of a newspaper, upload 
the electronic version of the newspaper on the Press Sewa Portal. 


(2) The publisher in a State or Union Territory shall deliver the physical copy of the newspaper to the office of 
the Press Information Bureau located in that State or Union Territory in which the paper is being published, by the 
fifth day of every month for the all the days for which the newspaper is published during the preceding month: 


Provided that the publisher may deliver a copy of the newspaper to the office of the Press Information Bureau 
at a more frequent interval. 


Provided further that in a State or Union Territory where there is no office of Press Information Bureau, the 
Press Registrar General shall authorise an officer under the Central Government in the Ministry of Information and 
Broadcasting in that State or Union Territory for receiving the newspaper from the publisher. 


(3) The newspapers published in the National Capital Territory of Delhi Region will be delivered at the office of 
the Press Registrar General in New Delhi. 


(4) The publisher in a State or Union Territory shall deliver the physical copy of the newspaper to such office of 
the State Government or the Union Territory administration so authorised for the purpose by that State Government or 
the Union Territory administration, by the fifth day of every month for all the days for which the newspaper is 
published during the preceding month: 


Provided that the publisher may deliver a copy of the newspaper to the office so authorised by the State 
Government or Union Territory administration, at a more frequent interval. 


[೪777 [—ave 3(i)] HIST BT UST: ೫೫7೫೪೧೯೫ 11 


(5) Compliance of sub-rules (1) to (4) shall be taken into consideration for the purpose of ascertaining whether 
the newspaper is being published continuously. 


11. Verification of circulation figure of a periodical by the Press Registrar General. -(1)The Press Registrar 
General may verify the circulation figure of a periodical, in the manner laid down under this rule, in respect of the 
following classes and category of periodicals: - 


(a) a daily newspaper, having an average circulation of twenty-five thousand copies or more each day, as 
reported in the annual statement furnished by such newspaper in the preceding two financial years, and is 
empanelled with the Central Bureau of Communication for the purpose of obtaining advertisements of the 
Central Government; 


(b) a daily newspaper, having an average circulation of twenty-five thousand copies or more each day, as 
reported in the annual statement furnished by such newspaper in the preceding two financial years, and 
intends to be empanelled with the Central Bureau of Communication for the purpose of obtaining 
advertisements of the Central Government; and 


(c) any other periodical which, in the opinion of the Press Registrar General, and for reasons to be recorded 
by him in writing, requires such verification, having regard to any information, reference or complaint 
received by him in respect of that periodical. 


(2) For the purposes of verifying the circulation of a periodical referred to in sub-rule (1), the Press Registrar 
General or any officer of the Central Government so authorised by him, may undertake a desk audit of the information 
furnished by the publisher in the latest annual statement in accordance with procedure laid down in the Press Sewa 
Portal, and determine the circulation figure: 


Provided that the Press Registrar General or the officer so authorised, may, for undertaking the desk audit, 
seek such information or documents as may be considered necessary, through electronic mode and the publisher shall 
provide such information or documents electronically: 

Provided further that the desk audit shall be undertaken in a faceless manner where there is no physical 
interface between the publisher and the Press Registrar General or the officer authorised for undertaking the desk 
audit. 

Explanation: For the purpose of undertaking desk audit under sub-rule (2), the latest annual statement shall be the 
annual statement of the periodical furnished for the immediately preceding financial year or the year immediately 
before that, whichever is latest. 

(3) The Press Registrar General may undertake verification of the circulation of a periodical by way of physical 
inspection of the documents and other information and records at the business premises of the publisher and the 
printing press only under the following situations, namely: 


(a) where the publisher is not regularly furnishing the annual statement as required under section 12; 


(b) where the desk audit undertaken under sub-rule (2) recommends such physical verification due to exceptional 
circumstances, and the Press Registrar General is satisfied with such recommendations; 


(c) where, in the opinion of the Press Registrar General, and for reasons to be recorded in writing, such 
verification is necessary, having regard to any information, reference or complaint received by him in respect 
of that periodical. 


[F. No. M-25013/1/2024-MUC-I] 
C. SENTHIL RAJAN, Jt. Secy. 


Uploaded by Dte. of Printing at Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064 
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-110054. jacana ve 


ಭಾಗ ೪ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಸೋಮವಾರ, ೧೨, ಆಗಸ್ಟ್‌ ೨೦೨೪ ೭೬೯ 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪಾಲರ ಆದೇಶಾನುಸಾರ 
ಮತ್ತು ಅವರ ಹೆಸರಿನಲ್ಲಿ 
(ಅಫೀಫಾ ಉಸ್ಮಾನಿ) 
ಸಹಾಯಕ ಪ್ರಾರೂಪಕಾರ ಮತ್ತು ಪದನಿಮಿತ್ತ 
ಸರ್ಕಾರದ ಉಪ ಕಾರ್ಯದರ್ಶಿ 


ಸಂಸದೀಯ ವ್ಯವಹಾರಗಳು ಮತ್ತು 
ಶಾಸನ ರಚನೆ ಇಲಾಖೆ 
PR-48 
ಸಂಸದೀಯ ವ್ಯವಹಾರಗಳು ಮತ್ತು ಶಾಸನ ರಚನೆ ಇಲಾಖೆ 
ಅಧಿಸೂಚನೆ 
ಸಂಖ್ಯೆ: ಸ೦ವ್ಯಶಾಇ 17 ಕೇವಿಪ್ರ 2024 ಬೆ೦ಗಳೂರು, ದಿನಾ೦ಕ: 08.08.2024. 


ದಿನಾ೦ಕ: 13.03.2024 ರಂದು ಭಾರತ ಸರ್ಕಾರದ ಗೆಜೆಟ್‌ನ ವಿಶೇಷ ಸ೦ಚಿಕೆಯ  Part-ll- 
Section-3 Sub Section (ರಲ್ಲಿ ಪ್ರಕಟವಾದ the National Dental Commission Rules, 2024ರ 
Notification-GSR 189(ಐನ್ನು ಸಾರ್ವಜನಿಕರ ಮಾಹಿತಿಗಾಗಿ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರದಲ್ಲಿ ಮರು 
ಪ್ರಕಟಿಸಲಾಗಿದೆ,- 


8 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)] 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND FAMILY WELFARE 
(Department of Health and Family Welfare) 
(DENTAL EDUCTION SECTION) 
NOTIFICATION 
New Delhi, the 13th March, 2024 


G.S.R. 189(E).—In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) read with clauses (a), (b), (0), (6), 
(e), (f), (8), Ch), (1), (1), (1), (0) and (p) of sub-section (2), of section 53 of the National Dental Commission Act, 2023 
(21 of 2023), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:— 


1. Short title and commencement .— (1) These rules may be called the National Dental Commission Rules, 2024. 
(2) They shall come into force from the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 

2. Definitions.—{(1) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,— 
(a) “Act” means the National Dental Commission Act, 2023 (21 of 2023), 

(b) “Board” means any of the Autonomous Board constituted under section 16 of the Act; 

(c) “Commission” means the National Dental Commission constituted under section 3 of the Act; 

(d) “Secretary” means Secretary of the Commission appointed under sub-section (1) of section 8 of the Act; 

(e) “section” means section of the Act. 


(2) Words and expressions used in these rules and not defined herein but defined in the Act, shall have the respective 
meanings assigned to them in the Act. 


3. Manner of appointment of part-time Members under clause (a) of sub-section (4) of section 4.— (1) The 
Central Government shall appoint three part-time Members under clause (a) of sub-section (4) of section 4 on the 
recommendations of the Search-cum-Selection Committee for a term of four years, from amongst persons having 
special knowledge and professional experience of not less than twenty years in areas of management, law, medical 
ethics, health research, consumer or patient rights advocacy, science and technology or economics. 


(2) As soon as any vacancy of a part-time Member arises, the Search-cum-Selection Committee shall, for the purpose 
of recommending suitable candidates, convene its meeting at the earliest but not later than three months from the 
occurrence of such vacancy. 


(3) The Search-cum-Selection Committee shall recommend a panel of at least three names for each vacancy of a part- 
time Member referred to it and the persons so appointed shall serve as a Member of the Commission for a full term of 
four years. 


4. Manner of appointment of part-time Members under clause (b) of sub-section (4) of section 4.— (1) The 
Central Government shall appoint ten part-time Members under clause (b) of sub-section (4) of section 4 from 
amongst the members of the Dental Advisory Council nominated under clauses (c) and (d) of sub-section (2) of 
section 11, on rotation basis, after every two years, by draw of lots on such date as may be decided by the Central 
Government. 


(2) The draw of lots shall be conducted with paper slips of uniform size, colour and design bearing individual names 
of each State and Union territories, which shall be folded in such manner so as to preserve the confidentiality. 


(3) There shall be separate draw boxes for the States and the Union territories out of which nine slips shall be picked 
up from the draw box for the States and one slip shall be picked up from the draw box of the Union territories. 


(4) The draw of lots shall be conducted in the presence of the Union Health Secretary. 


(5) The draw of lots at every subsequent two year interval, shall be restricted to those States or Union territories not 
represented as Members in the immediately preceding term. 


(6) No State or Union territory shall be represented by more than one nominee in the Commission at a time. 


(7) In the event of occurrence of vacancy of a Member, including by reason of death, resignation or removal, the State 
Government or the Ministry of Home Affairs, as the case may be, shall nominate another person in his place at the 


[MrT are 3(1)] ಇತ AT USTs: ATI 9 


earliest and within three months from the occurence of such vacancy, and the person so nominated, shall be a Member 
only for the remaining term of two years. 


5. Manner of appointment of part-time Members under clause (c) of sub-section (4) of section 4.— (1) Nine 
part-time Members from amongst the members of the Dental Advisory Council nominated under clause (e) of sub- 
section (2) of section 11, on rotation basis, after every two years, by draw of lots on such date as may be decided by 
the Central Government 


(2) The draw of lots shall be conducted with paper slips of uniform size, colour and design bearing individual names 
of each State and Union territories, which shall be folded in such manner so as to preserve the confidentiality. 


(3) There shall be separate draw boxes for the States and the Union territories out of which eight slips shall be picked 
up from the draw box for the States and one slip shall be picked up from the draw box of the Union territories. 


(4) The first draw of lots shall be restricted to those States and Union territories which are not represented as part-time 
Members under rule 4 and _ the draw of lots at every subsequent two-year interval, shall be restricted to those States 
and Union territories not represented as Members in the immediately preceding term. 


(5) The draw of lots shall be conducted in the presence of the Union Health Secretary. 
(6) No State or Union territory shall be represented by more than one nominee in the Commission at a time. 


(7) In the event of occurrence of vacancy of a Member, including by reason of death, resignation or removal, the State 
Government or the Ministry of Home Affairs, as the case may be, shall nominate another person in his place at the 
earliest and within three months from the date of occurence of such vacancy and the person so nominated shall be a 
Member only for the remaining term of two years. 


6. Manner of appointment of part-time Members under clause (d) of sub-section (4) of section 4.— (1) The 
Central Government shall appoint two part-time Members from amongst dental faculty of the level of Associate 
Professor or above, for a period of four years. 


(2) The members shall be appointed on the basis of nominations invited from the Central or State or Autonomous 
Government Institutes. 


(3) In the event of occurrence of vacancy of a Member, including by reason of death, resignation or removal, the 
Central or State or Autonomous Government Institute, as the case may be, shall nominate another person in his place 
at the earliest and within three months from the date of occurence of such vacancy and the person so nominated shall 
serve as a Member for a full term of four years. 


7. Nomination of experts as members of Search-cum-Selection Committee.— (1) The Central Government shall 
nominate the following persons as members of the Search-cum-Selection Committee under clauses (b) and (c) of sub- 
section (1) of section 5, namely :— 


(a) three experts, possessing outstanding qualification and experience of not less than twenty-five years in the 
field of dental education, public health education and health research from Government Institutes; 


(b) one expert, having outstanding qualifications and experience of not less than twenty-five years in the field of 
management or law or economics or science and technology. 


(2) The persons nominated under sub-rule (1) shall serve as members of the Search-cum-Selection Committee for a 
term of two years. 


(3) In the event of occurrence of vacancy, including by reason of death, resignation or removal, as the case may be, of 
any member of the Search-cum-Selection Committee under sub-rule (1), the Central Government shall nominate 
another person as a member at the earliest and within three months from the date of occurence of such vacancy and 
the person so nominated shall remain a member in the Search Cum Selection Committee for a full term of two years. 


8. Salaries and allowances payable to Chairperson and allowances payable to Members of Commission.— (1) 
The salary payable to the Chairperson shall be equivalent to the salary admissible to an Additional Secretary to the 
Government of India: 


Provided that where the Chairperson is a retired person from the Government, semi-Government agency, public 
sector undertaking or recognised research institution, the salary payable together with the pension or pensionery value 
of the terminal benefits, or both, received by such Chairperson shall not exceed the last pay drawn. 


(2) Where the Chairperson is in the service of the Central Government or a State Government or a Union territory 
Administration, his salary and allowances shall be regulated in accordance with the rules applicable to such 


10 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)] 


Chairperson in his parent cadre or department, or as per sub-rule (1), whichever is higher, and his appointment in the 
Commission shall be treated as being on deputation. 


(3) The Chairperson and every other Member of the Commission shall be entitled to dearness allowance, travelling 
allowances and daily allowances appropriate to their pay at the rates admissible to officers of equivalent level in the 
Central Government: 


Provided that dearness allowance and travelling allowance of ex officio Members shall be borne by the parent 
department or organisation. 


(4) The Chairperson and every Member shall be his own controlling officer in respect of his bills relating to travelling 
allowances and daily allowances. 


9. Secretary of Commission.— (1) The Central Government shall appoint a Secretary to the Commission who shall 
be a person of of outstanding ability, proven administrative capacity and integrity and possessing the following 
qualifications and experience, namely: 


(i) a post-graduate degree in any discipline preferably related to Dental or Public Health or Health 
Administration from any University or Institute; and 


(ii) holding analogous post on regular basis in the parent cadre or department; or 
(111) with minimum three years’ regular service in Level 13 in the pay matrix or equivalent thereto; or 
(iv) with minimum seven years’ regular service in Level 12 in the pay matrix or equivalent thereto; and 


(v) having experience in the Central Government or a State Government or any statutory body or recognised 
organisation or institution of not less than twelve years in his related service or profession along with 
administrative experience of not less than five years. 


(2) A person who has completed the age of fifty-five years on the date of application shall not be eligible for the post 
of Secretary. 


(3) The salary payable to the Secretary shall be equivalent to the salary of Joint Secretary to the Government of 
India. 


(4) The Secretary shall be entitled for dearness allowance, travelling allowances and daily allowances appropriate to 
his pay at the rates admissible to Joint Secretary to the Government of India. 


(5) The Secretary shall hold office for a term of four years or till he attain the age of sixty years, whichever is earlier. 


10. Nomination of member of Dental Advisory Council under the second proviso to clause (d) of sub-section (2) of 
section 11,- Where there is no Government Dental College in any State or Union territory, the State Government or 
in case of a Union territory, the Ministry of Home Affairs shall, nominate a person possessing the following dental 
qualifications and experience, as a member of the Dental Advisory Council under the second proviso to clause (d) of 
sub-section (2) of section 11, namely:— 


(a) a post-graduate degree in any discipline of dental sciences from a recognised University or institute; 
(b) registered with the National Register or State Register; and 
(c) having experience of not less than fifteen years in the field of dental sciences. 


11. Manner of appointment of second part-time Members of Boards under sub-section (5) of section 17 .— (1) 
The Central Government shall appoint under sub-section (5) of section 17, a second part-time Member for each of the 
Boards by draw of lots from amongst the Members of the Commission appointed under clause (c) of the sub-section 
(4) of section 4 who have given their consent to serve as second part time Member of Autonomous Board and the 
name of any unwilling Member shall not be included in the draw box. 


(2) Three slips shall be picked from out of the nine slips in the draw box containing the names of the nine States. 


(3) The name appearing in the first slip shall represent the second part-time Member of the Undergraduate and 
Postgraduate Dental Education Board, the name appearing in the second slip shall represent the second part-time 
Member of the Dental Assessment and Rating Board and the name appearing in the third slip shall represent the 
second part-time Member of the Ethics and Dental Registration Board. 


(4) The draw of lots shall be conducted in the presence of the Union Health Secretary. 


[art 11-೪7೯ 3(1)] ಇಗ HT USAT : ೫7೪೫7೫೯೫ 11 


(5) The term of the second part-time Members shall be co-terminus with their membership in the Commission under 
clause (c) of sub-section (4) of section 4. 


(6) In the event of occurrence of vacancy at any time, the Central Government shall appoint another second part-time 
Member in the manner provided in this rule. 


12. Salaries and allowances payable to President and whole-time Members, and allowances payable to part- 
time Members, of Boards.— 


(1) The salary of the President and whole-time Members of a Board shall be equivalent to the salary of an officer of 
the level of Joint Secretary to the Government of India: 


Provided that where the President or a whole-time Member of a Board, is a retired person from the 
Government, semi-Government agency, public sector undertaking or recognised research institution, the salary 
payable together with the pension or pensionery value of the terminal benefits, or both, received by such President or 
whole-time Member shall not exceed the last pay drawn. 


(2) Where the President or a whole-time Member of a Board is in the service of the Central Government or a State 
Government or a Union territory Administration, his salary and allowances shall be regulated in accordance with the 
tules applicable to such President or ೩ whole-time Member in his parent cadre or department, or as per sub-rule (1), 
whichever is higher, and his appointment in the Commission shall be treated as being on deputation. 


(3) The President and whole-time Members of each Board shall be entitled for dearness allowance appropriate to their 
pay at the rates admissible to officers of equivalent level in the Central Government. 


(4) The President and every other Member of each of the Boards shall be entitled to travelling allowance and daily 
allowances at the rates appropriate to their pay admissible to officers of equal rank in the Central Government. 


13. Sitting fee.—The ex-officio and part time Members of the Commission and the part-time Members of each Board, 
shall be entitled to a sitting fee of five thousand rupees for each day of sitting of the Commission or the Board as the 
case may be. 


14. Leave.— The Chairperson and Members of the Commission appointed under clauses (a) to (d) of sub-section (4) of 
section 4, the Secretary to the Commission and the President and whole-time Members of each Board shall be entitled 
to— 


(a) earned leave, half pay leave and commuted leave as admissible to Central Government servants in 
accordance with the Central Civil Services (Leave) Rules,1972, as amended from time to time; and 


(b) extraordinary leave as admissible to the temporary Central Government servants under the Central Civil 
Services (Leave) Rules, 1972, as amended from time to time. 


15. Leave sanctioning authority.— (1) The Central Government shall be the authority competent to sanction leave to 
the Chairperson of the Commission. 


(2) The Chairperson of the Commission shall be the authority competent to sanction leave to,— 

(a) the Members, other than ex officio Members of Commission and the Secretary; and 

(b) the President of a Board. 
(3) The President of a Board shall be the authority to sanction leave to the whole-time Member of that Board. 
16. Contributory Provident Fund.— The Chairperson and the President and whole-time Members of Board, — 


(a) shall be governed by the provisions of the Contributory Provident Fund Rules (India), 1962 and there shall 
be no option to subscribe under the General Provident Fund (Central Services) Rules, 1960; 


(b) shall not be entitled to additional pension and gratuity for the service rendered by them in the Board 


17. Application of Central Civil Services Rules.— The Chairperson, Secretary, President and whole-time Members 
of the Commission and the Boards, as the case may be, shall be governed by the provisions of the Central Civil 
Service (Conduct) Rules during their tenure. 


18. Declaration of assets, professional and commercial engagement or involvement.— The Chairperson, 
Secretary, President, and Members of the Commission and Boards shall— 


(a) file a return of their assets and liabilities in Form A annexed to these rules; 


12 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)] 


(b) declare their professional and commercial engagement or involvement at the time of appointment, and at 
the time of demitting office as such Chairperson or Secretary or Member, in Form B annexed to these rules. 


19. Other powers and functions of Commission. — In addition to the powers and functions of the Commission 
specified in section 10 , the Commission shall— 


(a) undertake study to reduce the cost of dental education in the country; 


(b) suggest, among others, adoption of modern technology, intensive use of infrastructure, faculty sharing, and 
global best practices with a view to reduce the cost of education and make it more accessible; 


(c) decide the manner of hearing appeals against the decisions of Boards: 


Provided that where an appeal is filed against the decision of a Board, the President of such Board shall 
not participate in the appeal proceedings; 


(d) make regulations after 


(i) consulting all State Governments, Union territory Administrations and other stakeholders, such as, 
association of dental professionals, association of resident dentists and patient rights bodies; 


(ii) giving wide publicity by placing draft regulations on the website of the Commission for a period of thirty 
days; 


(iii) taking into consideration all objections or suggestions received from the general public; 


(iv) Consulting the Legislative Department in the Ministry of Law and Justice on the final draft of the 
regulations through the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare; 


(e) endorse a copy of each major decision taken by the Commission to the Ministry of Health and Family 
Welfare through its Secretary and publish it on the website of the Commission; 


(f) furnish such information or report to the Central Government as may be required by the Central 
Government from time to time 


20. Compensation payable to erstwhile employees of Dental Council of India.— (1) The Commission shall decide 
on the premature termination and compensation payable to the regular employees of the erstwhile Dental Council of 
India within a period of one year as provided in sub-section (5) of Section 58. 


(2) An employee of the erstwhile Dental Council of India, unless continued with the Commission on contract basis, 
shall be paid an advance amount equivalent to three months’ salary at the time of termination of his service which 
shall be deducted from the total compensation package. 


(3) An employee of the erstwhile Dental Council of India who is not continued with the Commission, shall be paid 
compensation package including pensionary benefits applicable to such employee as per the terms and conditions 
of his service at the time of his appointment in the erstwhile Dental Council of India. 


Form A 
[See rule 18 (a)] 
DECLARATION OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 


Details of immovable property 


Name Name of Name and Cost of construction/ ‘ How acquired, | Annual 


(in block District, Details Acquirement (and year whether by Income 


letters) Sub- of Property, when purchased) - purchase, from 
ao including of land in case ee 
Division, Housing, Lands 100850 lease **, Property 


Pn and Other mortgage, 


& Village Buildings inheritance, 


or City gift or 

in which otherwise with 
property is date of 
situated acquisition 
(full & name with 


[೪777 11-೫7೯ 3(i)] ಇತ AT UST» ATA 13 


location & details of 


postal person(s) 
address) from whom 


DECLARATION 


| ------------------------------------------- hereby declare that the information given above is true and correct to the best 
of my knowledge and belief. 


In the event of any change in the information given above, I undertake to intimate the same. 


Yours faithfully, 


Signature/thumb impression 
Date: 


Form B 
[See rule 18 (b) ] 
Declaration of professional and commercial engagements or involvement 
on first appointment and at the time of demitting office 
Professional position held in last [Commercial engagements 


three years from the date of /involvement held in last three years 
declarations, if any from the date of declarations, if any 


1700೮. ಸಸ 


[F. No. V.12025/94/2023-DE] 
Dr. VIPUL AGGARWAL, Jt. Secy. 


Uploaded by Dte. of Printing at Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi- 110064 
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-110054. awit KUMAR ಭ್‌ 
೫ ಜು 1” 


೭೭೬ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಸೋಮವಾರ, ೧೨, ಆಗಸ್ಟ್‌, ೨೦೨೪ ಭಾಗ ೪ 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪಾಲರ ಆದೇಶಾನುಸಾರ 
ಮತ್ತು ಅವರ ಹೆಸರಿನಲ್ಲಿ 
(ಅಫೀಫಾ ಉಸ್ಮಾನಿ) 
ಸಹಾಯಕ ಪ್ರಾರೂಪಕಾರ ಮತ್ತು ಪದನಿಮಿತ್ತ 
ಸರ್ಕಾರದ ಉಪ ಕಾರ್ಯದರ್ಶಿ 


ಸಂಸದೀಯ ವ್ಯವಹಾರಗಳು ಮತ್ತು 
ಶಾಸನ ರಚನೆ ಇಲಾಖೆ 
PR-49 
ಸಂಸದೀಯ ವ್ಯವಹಾರಗಳು ಮತ್ತು ಶಾಸನ ರಚನೆ ಇಲಾಖೆ 
ಅಧಿಸೂಚನೆ 
ಸ೦ಖ್ಯೆ: ಸ೦ವ್ಯಶಾಇ 18 ಕೇವಿಪ್ರ 2024 ಬೆ೦ಗಳೂರು, ದಿನಾ೦ಕ: 08.08.2024. 


ದಿನಾ೦ಕ: 14.03.2024 ರಂದು ಭಾರತ ಸರ್ಕಾರದ ಗೆಜೆಟ್‌ನ ವಿಶೇಷ ಸ೦ಚಿಕೆಯ 88ಗ-0- 
Section-3 Sub Section (0ರಲ್ಲಿ ಪ್ರಕಟವಾದ the Captive Elephant (Transfer or Transport) 
Rules, 2024ರ Notification-GSR  191(ಏನ್ನು ಸಾರ್ವಜನಿಕರ ಮಾಹಿತಿಗಾಗಿ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ 
ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರದಲ್ಲಿ ಮರು ಪ್ರಕಟಿಸಲಾಗಿದೆ,- 


[೪777 11-೫7೯ 3(1)] ATT FT UIST | STAT OT 11 


MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT, FOREST AND CLIMATE CHANGE 
NOTIFICATION 
New Delhi, the 14th March, 2024 


G.S.R. 191(E).— In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (gviii) of sub- section (1) of Section 63 of 


the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972 (53 of 1972), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, 
namely:- 


| 


Short title and commencement. — (1) These rules may be called the Captive Elephant (Transfer or 
Transport) Rules, 2024. 
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 
Definition .- (1) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, - 
(a) "Act" means the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972 (53 of 1972); 
(0) “donor State” means a State from whose jurisdiction the elephant 15 going to be transferred; 
(c) “elephant” means a captive elephant in respect of which an ownership certificate has been issued 
under Section 42 of the Act; 


(d) "elephant assistant" means a person engaged to assist the Mahout; 
(e) “Form” means form appended to these rules; 
(f) "mahout" means the person who manages the elephant; 
(g) "owner" means a person having a valid certificate of ownership for the elephant issued under 
section 42 of the Act; 
(h) “recipient State’ means a State in whose jurisdiction the transfer of elephant is going to be 
transferred; 
(i) “veterinary practitioner” means a person registered with the Veterinary Council of India 
established under the Indian Veterinary Council Act, 1984 (52 of 1984); 
(2) The words and expressions used and not defined in these rules but defined in the Act shall have the 
meaning respectively assigned to them in the Act. 
Application for Transfer of Elephant — An application for transfer of elephant shall be made in Form I to 
the officer not below the rank of Deputy Conservator of Forests having jurisdiction over the area where the 
elephant is registered. 
Inquiry by the Deputy Conservator of Forests.-(1) On receipt of the application under rule 3, the Deputy 
Conservator of Forests shall:- 
(a) obtain a certificate of a veterinary practitioner in Form II; 


(b) conduct a detailed inquiry and physical verification of the facility where the elephant is presently 
housed and also the facility where the elephant is proposed to be housed in case the facility is located within 
his jurisdiction; and 


(0) forward the application and report in Form 111 along with the report of veterinary practitioner within a 
period of fifteen days to the Chief Wild Life Warden. 


Transfer within the State.-(1)The Chief Wild Life Warden after examination of reports may, within a 
period of seven days by an order in writing reject or permit the transfer of the elephant, if such elephant is 
proposed to be housed within the jurisdiction of the officer receiving the application under rule 3. 


(2) The Chief Wild Life Warden shall forward the application and the reports received as per sub-rule (1)(c) 
of rule 4 to the officer not below the rank of Deputy Conservator of Forests having jurisdiction over the area 
where the elephant is proposed to be housed and is outside the jurisdiction of the officer receiving the 
application under rule 3, within a period of seven days. 

(3) The concerned Deputy Conservator of Forests shall on receipt of the application and the reports in 
accordance with sub-rule (2) conduct a detailed inquiry and physical verification of the facility and submit 
report in Form III within a period of fifteen days to the Chief Wild Life Warden. 

(4) The Chief Wild Life Warden after examination of the application and the reports may, within a period of 
seven days by an order in writing reject or permit the transfer. 

Transfer outside State.- (1) The Chief Wild Life Warden of the donor State shall forward the application 
along with the reports received as per (c) of sub-rule (1) of rule 4 within a period of fifteen days to the Chief 
Wild Life Warden of the recipient State. 

(2) The Chief Wild Life Warden of the recipient State shall within a period of seven days forward the 
application and the reports to the officer not below the rank of Deputy Conservator of Forests having 
jurisdiction over the area where the elephant is going to be housed. 

(3) The concerned Deputy Conservator of Forests shall on receipt of the application and reports in 


12 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)] 


10. 


1 


accordance with sub-rule (2) conduct a detailed inquiry and physical verification of the facility and submit 
report within a period of fifteen days in Form 111 to the Chief Wild Life Warden. 

(4) The Chief Wild Life Warden of the recipient State after receipt of the reports as per sub-rule (3) shall 
forward his recommendations to the Chief Wild Life Warden of the donor State in Form IV within a period 
of fifteen days. 

(5) The Chief Wild Life Warden of the donor State after examination of the reports shall, within a period of 
seven days by an order in writing reject or permit the transfer. 

(6) The Chief Wild Life Warden of the donor State shall intimate the order of rejection or permission of 
transfer to the Chief Wild Life Warden of the recipient State. 

Terms and Conditions for transfer.- (1) The Chief Wild Life Warden shall permit the transfer where the 
ownership certificate in respect of the elephant proposed for transfer existed prior to coming into force of 
these rules except in case of elephant borne from such elephants. 


(2) The transfer of the elephant may be permitted by the Chief Wild Life Warden, in case: - 


(a) the owner is no longer in a position to maintain the elephant; or 
(b) the elephant will have a better upkeep than in the present circumstances; or 
(c) he deems it fit and proper in the circumstances of the case for better upkeep of the elephant. 


(3) No transfer of an elephant shall be permissible unless genetic profile of the elephant has been entered in 
the electronic monitoring application of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. 
Application for Transport of elephant .- (1) An application for transport of an elephant shall be made in 
Form V to the officer not below the rank of the Deputy Conservator of Forests having jurisdiction over the 
area where the elephant is registered. 

(2) The concerned Deputy Conservator of Forests shall, on receipt of the application obtain a report of a 
veterinary practitioner in Form 11 and submit his recommendations in Form 111 along with the report of 
veterinary practitioner within a period of fifteen days to the Chief Wild Life Warden. 

(3) The Chief Wild Life Warden may, on receipt of the application and reports in accordance with sub-rule 
(2), issue a transport permit in Form VI or reject the application by an order in writing. 

(4) The Chief Wild Life Warden shall forward a copy of the transport permit to:- 


(a) the concerned Deputy Conservator of Forests within the state through whose jurisdiction the elephant is 
to be transported; and 


(b) the concerned Chief Wild Life Warden through whose jurisdiction the elephant is to be transported. 


Conditions for transport.- (1) The transport of the elephant in respect of which a transport permit has 
been issued shall be with the following conditions that: - 

(a) the elephant shall be accompanied by a mahout and an elephant assistant; 

(b) a health certificate from a veterinary practitioner to the effect that the elephant is fit for transport and is 
not showing any sign of musth or infectious or contagious disease, is obtained; 


(c) the transport shall be carried out after the mandatory quarantine period as advised by the veterinary 
practitioner r is over, in case of contagious disease; 

(d) the elephant shall be properly fed and given water before loading; 

(e) necessary arrangements shall be made for providing food and water to the elephant en route; 

(f) tranquilisers/sedatives shall be used to control nervous or temperamental elephants upon prescription by 
the veterinary practioner. 

Validity.- (1) The transfer of the elephant shall be effected within a period not exceeding three months from 
the date of grant of permission. 

(2) The validity of the transport permit shall not be more than one month. 

(3) No extension of validity of permission for transfer or transport permit shall be granted. 

Appeal .- (1) An applicant aggrieved by the refusal of the Chief Wild Life Warden may prefer an appeal to 
the administrative Head of the State Forest Department of the concerned State Government within a period 
of sixty days from the date of receipt of the orders of the Chief Wild Life Warden by a written statement 
sent through registered post justifying reasons for preferring an appeal. 

(2) The State Government shall pass appropriate orders on the appeal within a period of thirty days of 
receipt of the appeal. 


[MrT are 3(1)] Ad BT UST : AAT ATT 13 


Form I 
[See rule 3] 


Form I 
Application for transfer of Elephants 


___|Name of the applicant/owner 
[Permanent Address 
___[PresentAddress "ಕಾ: ೌಿದಾ ಾಾ:ೌ)-್ಗೌ೧)ಾಗಾಣಾಾ:)ಉ/-ಓ)ಸ್ಕ್ಣ್ಣ-,ಾ್ಣ 
___|[Date of acquisition of Elephant | 
___|Name of the presentownerofElephant | 
[Address of the owner ofthe Elephant PO 
7. Address of the housing facility 

piri 7- 
(if applicable) 
Elephant 


Elephant 
state 
To [Name of the District, State] 
. Address of the transferee housing facility of ಹ (1 
the Elephant 
pO 
fhe 


14. 
15. Any other detail 


Undertaking 


10. 

11. 

12, 
3 


1 


ಗೂ ಪಪ ಎ೯ ಎಎ (1301110 of the applicant] Son or Daughter or Wife of ...................[Father’s 
name or Husband’s Name] hereby declare that all the particulars furnished by me are true to 
the best of my knowledge and any detail furnished above, if found to be false, shall make my 
application liable for rejection. 


I shall abide by all the conditions mentioned in the Captive Elephant (Transfer or Transport) 
Rules, 2024 and any other condition that may be imposed by the Chief Wild Life Warden. 


Date: Signature 

Place: 
Name of the Applicant: 
Present Address of the 
Applicant: 


List of enclosures: 


Authorisation letter in case the applicant and owner are different 

Copy of the present ownership certificate 

Copy of the Aadhar Card/ Address proof of the present Owner/ Applicant 

Registration Certificate/Certificate of incorporation in case of a Society/Company/Board etc. 
Certificate of fitness of the Elephant from the veterinary doctor 


ಎ ಗು ಥಾ 


14 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)] 


Form II 
[See sub-rules (1) (a) of Rule 4 and sub-rule (2) of rule 8] 


Form II 
Certificate by the Veterinary practitioner 


Hl [Date and Time of Examination || 
2. __|Name of the present owner of Elephant JP 
B. [Name of the Elephant (ifapplicabley JP 
4. [Microchip number of the Elephant ee 
Age and sex ofthe Elephant 
Address of the housing facility ofthe Elephant [| 
Pe ee 


ಚ್‌ 
6. 
me other detail 
bp. 


IRecommendations 


Undertaking 
T, Dro... eee ಪ ಎಸ ಪ ಸಪಪ ಸ್ರ Fegistered as a veterinary practitioner under 1110 
Veterinary Council Act, 1984, examined the above described animal on (date)............ and certify that the 
animal is sound/ unsound in health. 
Place: Signature: 
Date: Name & Address: 


VCI Registration No. 
Email: 
Contact No: 


Form 111 
[See sub-rule (1)(c) of rule 4, sub-rule (3) of rule 5, sub-rule (3) of rule 6 and sub-rule (2) of rule 8] 


Form 111 
Report of the Deputy Conservator of Forests 


7. |Address of the transferee housing facility of the 
Elephant along with name of Division and District 


10. 
1. 
12. 


ES 
=a 
7 Signature 
Name of the Officer: Designation: 
The Chief Wild Life Warden, 
ddress..... 


[MrT 11-೫7೯ 3(1)] ಇತತ UST: AAT ATT 15 


Form IV 
[See sub-rule (4) of rule 6] 


Form IV 
Recommendations of the Chief Wild Life Warden of the recipient State 


| 1. [Name and address ofthe Applicant | 
| _2. [Name and address of the present owner of Elephant | 
| 3. [Name of the Elephant (if applicable) | 
| 4. [Microchip number ofthe Elephant [| 
| 5. |Ageandsexofthe Elephant 
| 6. [Name and address ofthe transferee | 
7. |Address of the transferee housing facility of the 

ಡು Elephant along with name of Division and District ತಾ 

[Date of Inspection (ifcarriedout) | 

[Recommendations 


Signature 

Name of the Officer: Designation: 
To 
The Chief Wild Life Warden (Donor State), 
Address..... 


List of enclosures: 
Recommendations of the Deputy Conservator of Forests having territorial jurisdiction over the area in recipient State 
in Form 111. 


16 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)] 


Form V 
[See sub-rule (1) of rule 8] 


Form V 
Application for transport of Elephant(s) 


Name of the Applicant / Owner 


Permanent Address 


Present Address 
Date of acquisition of Elephant 


Name of the present owner of Elephant 
Address of the owner of the Elephant 


is ಾತಾಾಾಾಾಾಣಾಣಾಣಾಣಾಣಾವ 

De ಕಾಣಾ ಗಕಾಗಕಗಾಗಕಾಣಾಣಾಣಾಣಾಣಾಣಾಗಣಾಣಾಾಾ 

pe 

ie 

Fr a | ಾರಾಕಾಣಾಗಕಾಗಾಗಾಕಾಾ 
of the Elephant 

(if applicable) 


Microchip number of 00 
Elephant 


Age and sex of the 
State 

To [Name of the District, State] 
[Purpose of transport | 
ಗ ಗ || 
facility (in case of temporary transportation) 
[an (| 
Elephant 
epee cee ee re 
Elephant 

|| 


Details of Mahout and Assistant at the place 
where the elephant is being transported 


Any other detail 


Undertaking 


10. 
11. 
12. 
13 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 


ಗು ಸ. ಪಪ ೬.2 [101110 of the applicant] Son or Daughter or Wife of ......................[Father’s 
name or Husband’s Name] hereby declare that all the particulars furnished by me are true to the best 
of my knowledge and any detail furnished above, if found to be false, shall make my application 
liable for rejection. 


I shall abide by all the conditions mentioned in the Captive Elephant (Transfer or Transport) Rules, 
2024 and any other condition that may be imposed by the Chief Wild Life Warden. 


Date: Signature 

Place: 
Name of the Applicant: Present Address of 
the Applicant: 


al 
| 18. 


List of enclosures: 


Authorisation letter in case the applicant and owner are different. 

Copy of the present ownership certificate. 

Copy of the Aadhar Card/ Address proof of the present Owner/ Applicant. 

Registration Certificate/Certificate of incorporation in case of a Society/Company/Board etc. 
Certificate of fitness of the Elephant from the veterinary practitioner. 

Copy of adhaar card of Mahout and Assistant. 


DVO: BOSE 


[೪777 11-೫7೯ 3(1)] AIT FT UIST» ೫೫7೪73೫ 17 


Form VI 
[See sub-rule (3) of rule 8] 
Form VI 
Transport Permit for Elephant issued by the Chief Wild Life Warden 


Name of the Applicant 


; 
Ca cn | 
Elephant 
(if applicable) 
Elephant 
Elephant 
of the Elephant 


7. Transport permitted a. From [date] to [date] 
b. From [name of District, State] To [name of 


District, State] 


8. | Any other detail eee, 
9. [Recommendations 1 | 


Conditions for transport: 


1. The elephant for which a transport permit has been granted shall be accompanied by ೩ mahout and an 
elephant assistant. 

2. Ahealth certificate from a veterinary doctor to the effect that the elephant is fit to travel by road or rail, as the 
case may be, and is not showing any sign of musthor infectious or contagious disease shall be obtained in; 

3. The elephant shall be properly fed and given water before loading; 

4. Necessary arrangements shall be made for feeding and watering the 
elephant on route; 

5. Sedatives, if necessary, shall be used to control nervous or temperamental elephants only as prescribed by the 
veterinary practitioner. 

6. Any other conditions (to be specified) 


Date: Signature 
Place: 
Name of the Officer: 
Designation of Officer: 
To, 
The Name and Address of the Applicant 


Copy to: 
1. The Deputy Conservator of Forests having territorial jurisdiction over the area in which the elephant is 
registered. 


2. The Deputy Conservator of Forests having territorial jurisdiction over the area through which the elephant is 
going to be transported. 
3. The Chief Wild Life Wardens of all the states in case of inter-state transport. 


[F. No. WL-1/2/2023-WL] 


SUSHIL KUMAR AWASTHI, Addl. Director General of Forests and 
Director, Wild Life Preservation 


Uploaded by Dte. of Printing at Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064 
and Published by the Controller of Publications, 20171-110054. ೬ 


R.N.I. No. KARBIL/2001/47147 POSTAL REGN. No. RNP/KA/BGS/2202/2017-19 
Licensed to post without prepayment WPP No. 297 


೭೮೪ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಸೋಮವಾರ, ೧೨, ಆಗಸ್ಟ್‌, ೨೦೨೪ ಭಾಗ ೪ 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪಾಲರ ಆದೇಶಾನುಸಾರ 
ಮತ್ತು ಅವರ ಹೆಸರಿನಲ್ಲಿ 
(ಅಫೀಫಾ ಉಸ್ಮಾನಿ) 
ಸಹಾಯಕ ಪ್ರಾರೂಪಕಾರ ಮತ್ತು ಪದನಿಮಿತ್ತ 
ಸರ್ಕಾರದ ಉಪ ಕಾರ್ಯದರ್ಶಿ 
ಸಂಸದೀಯ ವ್ಯವಹಾರಗಳು ಮತ್ತು 
ಶಾಸನ ರಚನೆ ಇಲಾಖೆ 
PR-50 


ಮುದ್ರಕರು ಹಾಗೂ ಪ್ರಕಾಶಕರು:- ಸಂಕಲನಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು, ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಸರ್ಕಾರಿ ಕೇಂದ್ರ ಮುದ್ರಣಾಲಯ, ಬೆಂಗಳೂರು 
THAMMAIAH 


