The Eazette 


of # ndia 


. 


प्रयोग मायने 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 35) NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, AUGUST 29, 1959/ BHADRA 7, 1881 


NOTICE 
Thc undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 19th August , 
1999 – 


Isgue 
No. 


No, and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


122 $ . O . 1809 , dated 13th August, Ministry of Com - Authorising M /s Karam Chand 
1959 

merce and Industry . Thapar and Bros. ( P ) . Ltd ., to 

take over the management of 
the whole of the Ajodhya Mills 
Ltd ., Delhi and appoint them 
as Managing Agents of the 

same, 
123 S . O . 1810 , dated 18th August , Ministery of Informa- Approval of films specified therein . 
1959 

tion and Broad 

casting. 
124 $ . O , 1848, dated 19th August, Ministry of Comm - Further amendments in the Ex 
1959 

crce and Industry . ports (Control) Order, 1958 . 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
Indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines , Delhi, Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of løgue of 
these Gazettes. 


PART II - Section 3 - Sub -section (u ) 
Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern 

ment of India ( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administrations of Union Territories ) . 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 

New Delhi, the 19th August 1959 
8 . 0 . 1851. - In pursuance of sub - section ( 6 ) of Section 116A of the Represen 
tation of the People Act, 1951 ( 43 of 1951 ) , the Election Commission hereby pub 
lishes the decision of the High Court of Mysore at Bangalore given on the 14th 
July , 1959 on an appeal from the order , dated the 29th January , 1959 of the 
Election Tribunal, Gulbarga , 

( 2037 ) 


2038 


E 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIT : AUGUST 29, 1959 BHADR 1 7, 1881 [PART II 

- - - - - - 
IN THE HIGH COURT OF MYSORE AT BANGALORE 
Dated the 14th day of Julv 1959. 

PRESENT; 
The Hon ble Justice Sri A . R . Somnath Iyer, 

AND 
The Hon ble Justice Sri A , Narayana pai. 

MISCELLANEOUS AV ICAL No. 37 OF 1959 . 
B . Shyamsunder – Petitioner - Appellant. 

( By Sri H , F , M , Reddy ) . 


Vs. 


1. Shankar Dco Vedalankar ) 
2 . Mahadeoppa Rampura 

Respondents - Respondents , 
3 . Sharangouda 
4 . R . V . Bidap 

(Respondent 1 in person ) . 

(Other Respondents absent ) . 
Miscellancous Appeal against the judgment, dated 29th January 1959 passed 
by the Election Tribunal, Gulbarga, in Election Petition No. 431 of 1957 . 

This appeal coming on for final hearing this day, the Court delivered the 
following : - 


JUDGMENT 


Somnath Iyer J. 


This appeal presented under the provisions of Section 116 - A of the Reprc 
sentation of the People Act , concerns an election to the House of the People 
from the Gulbarga Parliamentary Double Membership Constituency to fill a 
reserved seat. This election was held in March , 1957. Respondent one and the 
appellant were the two candidates for that reserved seat. Respondent one was 
declared to have been duly elected , whereupon the petitioner presented an elec 
tion petition under the provisions of Section 80 of the Representation of the 
People Act, calling in question the validity of the election of respondent one. 
That election petition was heard by an Election Tribunal appointed for that pur 
pose . The Tribunal dismissed the election petition and the appellant appeals 
to this Court from that decision . 


Respondent one was by birth a Hindu and belonged to a caste known as the 
Samgar Caste . This caste was specified as a scheduled caste by the President 
by an order made under Article 341 of the Constitution , which was called the 
Constitution ( Scheduled Castes ) Order , 1950, as modified by another order made 
under the provisions of Section 41 of the States Reorganisation Act, 1958 , called 
the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Lists (Modification ) Order, 1956 . 

In the nomination paper presented by respondent one to the Returning Officer , 
he described himself as belonging to the Samgar Caste and the appellant s objec 
tion to the validity of that nomination paper was overruled by the Returning 
Officer , 

In the election petition presented by the appellant, many grounds were urged 
in its support. But, during the trial of the election pctition , the restricted attack 
made on the validity of the election of respondent one was , that respondent one, 
when he stood as a candidate for the reserved seat in question , did not belong to 
a scheduled caste and was therefore ineligible to stand as such candidate . The 
ground urged was that, the appellant had become a member of the Arya Samaj 
organisation and had, therefore , ceased to be a Hindu and a member of the Samgar 
Caste , 


The finding of the Tribunal in effect, was that, on the date on which respon 
dent one presented his nomination paper , he was an Arya Samajist by creed , 
belief and profession . But, it iecorded a further finding that by reason of his 
having been an Arya Samajist in that way, he did not cease to be a member 
of the Samgar caste in which he was born . 


SEC . (11) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 29 , 1959 / BHADRA 7 , 1881 


2020 


In support of the appeal presented to this Court, two contentions are urged 
on behalf of the appellant. The first contention is that respondent one by reason 
of his having become a member of the Arya Samaj in the year 1949 and by reason 
of his having continued to be such member until the date on which respondent 
one presented his nomination paper, respondent one had ceased to be a Hindu 
and was , therefore , a person who professed a religion different from Hinduism , 
It was therefore contended before us that, as provided by paragraph 3 of the 
Constitution ( Scheduled Caste ) Order, 1950 , he could not be deemed to be a 
member of a Scheduled Caste. The second contention urged before uş is that 
even if we come to the conclusion that respondent one cannot be regarded to 
profess a religion different from Hinduism merely by reason of his having become 
a member of the Arya Samaj, we should still hold that his profession of Arya 
Samajism entailed a deprivation of caste and that respondent one ceased to belong 
to the Samgar caste after he became a member of that organisation , 

Article 330 of the Constitution provides that seat shall be reserved in the House 
of the People for the scheduled castes. Paragraph 2 of the Constitution ( Sche 
duled Castes ) Order , 1950 , provides among other matters that subject to the 
provisions of that order , the castes specified in Parts I to XVI of that order shall 
be deemed to be scheduled castes . Paragraph 3 of that order provides that, not 
withstanding anything contained in paragraph 2 referred to above , no person who 
professes a religion different from Hinduism shall be deemed to be a member 
of a Scheduled Caste . 

It is undisputed that the Samgar caste is a caste which he specificd in Part 
VIII of Schedule I to the Constitution ( Scheduled Castes ) Order , 1950, as modi 
fled by the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Lists (Modification ) Order, 
1956 . There can , therefore, be no doubt, and it is not disputed , that the Samgar 
caste is a scheduled caste within the ineaning of that expression occurring in 
Article 330 of the Constitution . 

That being the position , it is only if respondent one can be said to profess a 
rcligion different from Hinduism by ieason of his having cntcred the Arya Samaj 
fold , or no longer retained the Samgar caste, in which he was born , it could be 
held that he was not a member of a scheduled caste on the date of the presen 
tation of his nomination paper in connection with the clcction which is now 
disputed . 

As I have mentioned above, the finding of the Tribunal was that although 
respondent one was a member of the Arya Samaj at the relevant time, he had 
neither ceased to be a Hindu nor lost his Samgar caste in which he was born . 

The latter part of this finding recorded by the Tribunal is assailed on behalf 
of the appellant before us while the former part of it is assailed by respondent 
one who has attempted to support the decision of the Tribunal also on the ground 
that the first part of the finding referred to above is incorrect. 

It would now be necessary to refer briefly to certain undisputed facts . It is 
common ground that in the year 1942, respondent one entered an Arya Samaj 
educational institution called the Gurukul University , Kangri, Haridwar. He 
continued the study of the Vedas and the Upanishads in that institution till the 
year 1949 when a degree known as Vedalankar was conferred on him . Between 
the years 1949 and 1950 , he was a student of a college , conducted by the Arya 
Sanaj Organisation , known as the D . A . V . College, Kanpur. In that institution , 
he took the degree of Master of Arts in Philosophy . In the year 1951, he went 
to the State of Hyderabad , to which he belonged , and worked as a Pracharak in 
an Arya Samaj institution known as the Arya Pratinidhi Sabha, Hyderabad , for 
six months. In December, 1951, during the first general election held for the 
Legislative Assembly of the erstwhile State of ITyderabad , he stood as a candi 
date for that body to a reserved seat . He claimed to belong , on that occasion , to 
the Samgar caste , and therefore, to a scheduled caste . He succeeded in that elec 
tion and in the year 1952, he was appointed as one of the ministers of the then 
Hyderabad Government, and it is stated by respondent one that he was appointed 
as such minister on behalf of the Harijan community to which respondent one 
states he continued to belong at that time. 


On September 26 , 1953 , as disclosed by Exhibit P - 12 , which is an extract from 
the proceedings of a committee known as the Antarang Sabha of the Sultan Bazar 
branch of the Arya Samaj, it was decided by that Antarang Sabha that a sug 
gestion coming from some one, that respondent one should be admitted as a 
member of the Arya Samay organisation should be accepted . Although there is 
evidence in this case given by the appellant s witnesses that, in order that a 


2040 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 29, 1959 /BHADRA 7, 1881 


[Part 1 


person may become a member of the Arya Samaj, he should , in accordance with 
the rules prescribed in that regard , make an application for such admission , it 
does not appcar that respondent one made any such application as required by 
those rules . 

But, it is clear from Exhibit P - 13 which is a document produced by P . W . 11 , 
who was, when he gave evidence , a Pradhan of the Sultan Bazar Branch of the 
Arya Samaj, Hyderabad, that respondent one paid his membership subscription 
in regard to that organisation for the period of Afteen months between April 
1956 and June 1957 . It is not disputed by respondent one that he paid this sub 
seription . Exhibit P - 13 bears the date June 18 , 1957 , and respondent one admits 
before us that he paid the subscription referred to in that document. 

On behalf of the appellant, it is also pointed out that Exhibit P - 3 which is the 
13th Annual Report of the Arya Prathinidhi Sabha of the State of Hyderabad 
discloses that during the year 1943 - 44 , one Pandit Shankar Deo Udgir was a 
member of the Arya Samaj and did considerable work in many spheres of the 
Arya Samaj Organisation . This, according to the appellant discloses that res 
pondent one was an Arya Samajist even in the year 1943 - 44 . But it does not 
appear to me that much reliance can be placed on that document for the reason 
that even according to the appellant s contention , respondent one became an Arya 
Samajist only in the year 1949. Further , the person referred to in Exhibit P - 3 
is one Shankar Deo Udgir whereas the name of respondent one before us is 
merely Shankar Deo . 

Reliance is next placed on behalf of the appellant on Exhibit P - 4 which is a 
printed list of the distinguished Aryas in the State of Hyderabad in which , the 
name of respondent one is also contained . It does not appear to me that this 
document is of any help to the appellant since it is not stated in that document 
that respondent one was an Arya Samajist. All that document states is that 
he was one of the distinguished Aryas and the evidence given by the appellant s 
witnesses themselves is that an Arya is not necessarily an Arya Samajist. 

Exhibit P - is the next document from which it is urged that we should infer 
that respondent one was an Arya Samajist in the year 1949. Here again , as in 
the case of Exhibit P - 3 , the reference is one to Pandit Shankar Deo who is said 
to have performed one Shuddhi and twenty Sanskars but is not very clear that 
the reference in that document can be regarded to be to respondent one, 

Exhibit P - 1 is the next document which is an article , the title of which is : 
" The Contribution of Arya Samaj to the struggle for Freedom .” In the course of 
that article . It is stated that respondent one was one of those Arya Samajists who 
were elected in the year 1951 -52 General Elections. 

Exhibit P - 7 is a Hindi book published in the year 1954 by one Tulsiram Kawle 
to which respondent one has admittedly written a foreword . I do not think there 
fg anything in Exhibit P - 7 from which we can infer that by reason of writing 
that foreword respondent one had become a member of the Arya Samaj in the 
year 1954 . 

But, it seems to me that Exhibit P - 13 makes it very clear that during the 
period between April 1956 and June 1957, respondent one was undoubtedly a 
member of the Arya Samaj of the Sultan Bazar Branch of the Arya Pratinidhi 
Sabha of the State of Hyderabad , Respondent one has strenuously contended 
before us that all that document evidences is that he paid subscriptions to the 
Arya Sama ) organisation out of altruistic motive since he was, at that period , a 
minister of the Hyderabad State. But, it is, I think , impossible to read Exhibit 
P - 13 in that way Exhibit P - 12 which is a record of the proceedings of the 
Antaranga Sabha of the Sultan Bazar Arya Samaj Organisation conducted on 
September 26 , 1953, makes it very clear that respondent one was proposed by 
some one for admission to the Arya Samaj organisation . That proposal was 
accepted by that Sabha and If, thereafter, it is found that for the period between 
April 1956 and June 1957, respondent one paid his membership subscription to 
that organisation , it becomes clear that sometime after September 26 , 1953 , 
respondent one became a member of the Arya Samaj and there is no eviderce in 
this case that after June 1957 , which is the date up to which in Exhibit P - 13 , 
respondent one paid his subscription , he ceased to he a member of the organisation 
either by resignation or otherwise , The proper conclusion to be drawn from the 
above materials , therefore , is that on January 28 , 1957 , on which date respondent 
one presented his nomination paper in regard to the election now in dispute , he 
was a member of the Sultan Bazar Branch of the Arya Pratinidhi Sabha of 
the Statc of Hyderabad. This conclusion is , in my opinion justined by the fact 
that when R . W . 2 Pandit Narenderji, who is the President of the Antaranga Sabha, 


Sec. 8 ( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 29, 1959/ BHADRA 7, 1881 


2041 


was examined as a witness by respondent one , he did not ask him to produce 
any other record of that organisation which established that after the decision of 
the Antaranga Sabha recorded in Exhibit P -12, and notwithstanding the payment 
of the subscription by respondent one as recorded in Exhibit P - 13 , respondent one 
did not nevertheless become a member of that organisation . In my opinion , the 
Anding of the Tribunal that respondent one was a member of the Arya Samaj 
when he presented his nomination paper has to be aſfrmed and it is only to that 
extent that it should hc allirmed , although , it has to be pointed out that its (inding 
in the extended form in which it has been recorded , namely , that respondeni one 
was by creed , belief and profession an Arya Samajist does not appear to be 
Justified by the evidence in the case. 

The next question that arises is whether by reason of respondent one having 
become a member of the Arya Samal, in that way , he could be regarded to have 
professed a religion different from Hinduism . If he could be sald to have done 
that, there can be no doubt that , as provided by Paragraph 3 of the Constitution 
(Scheduled Castes ) Order, 1950 , be could not be deemed to be a member of a 
Scheduled Caste . 

The contention urged by Mr. Reddy , appearing on behalf of the appellant, 
although with some considerable difference , was that the Arya Sama) is a religion 
distinct from Hinduism . Mr. Reddy urged that the Arya Samaj is an organisation 
which repudiates the determination of caste by birth as it does idolatry . 


It must be said that it is so , but what is of importance is that the Arya Samaj 
becves in the supremacy of the Vedas. It is undisputed that Pandit Dayanand 
Saraswati who was the founder of the Arya Samaj organisation was himself a 
Hindu who never abjured his ancestral religion . He was only a reformer who 
attempted to restore the Hindu religion to its original purity but in that attempt 
he never attempted to weaken or undermine the foundations of that religion , 


This is also the evidence given by P . W . 2 Venkata Swamy who is the Joint 
Secretary of the Arya Pratinidhi Sabha of the State of Hyderabad . This is what 
he stated : - - 
" Arya Samaj is only an organisation . Swamy Dayanand did not establish 

any new religion but he made the people realise what they had 
forgotten about their religion . 


R . W . 2 Pandit Narenderji and R . W . 4 Hazarilal Kohatgi, who is the Principal of 
the D . A . V . College, Kanpur, also gave similar evidence . 


It is therefore plain that Arya Samaj, unlike Christianity or Islam , is not a 
new religion entirely distinct from Hinduism and that the mere profession of Arya 
Samajism by a person does not make him cease to be a Hindu and cannot have 
the effect of excluding him from Hinduism although he was born in it. It is 
equally clear that such a person never becomes separated from the religious com 
munion in which he was born . The contention urged to the contrary by Mr. Reddy 
must , therefore , fail, 

That being the position , Paragraph 3 of the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) 
Order , 1950 , cannot be of any help to the appellant in this case . 


The next and the more scrious contention urged on behalf of the appellant is 
that respondent one, by becoming an Arya Samajist, ceased to rctain the Samgar 
caste in which he was born . It is urged that since the refutation of the birthwise 
classification of castes is one of the cardinal articles of the Arya Samal faith , one 
who is a member of that organisation can no longer be considered to belong to 
the caste in which he was born . The argument, therefore W83 that the inoment 
respondent one became a member of the Arya Samaj, he ceased to be a person 
belonging to the Samgar caste and if that was so . he could not have properly 
stood as a candidate to the reserved seat , as a Samgar . 

In support of this contention , reliance was placed by Mr. Ready on the evidence 
of four witnesses who were cxamined on behalf of the appellant, P . W . 2 , P . W . 4 , 
P . W . 7 and P . W . 11. P . W . 2 Venkata Swamy is the Joint Secretary of the Arya 
Pratinidhi Sabha . P . W . 4 Gopdeo Shastry is one of the Preachers in that Organisa 
tion . P . W . 7 Manik Rao Shastry is another Arya Samajist and P . W . 11 Surya 
Pratap is the Pradhan of the Sultan Bazar Branch of the Arya Samaj Pratinidhi 
Sabha. All these witnesses have given evidence that an Arya Samajist does not 
believe in caste and that once a person becomes an Arya Samajist, he loses the 
caste in which he was born , 


2042 TIIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 29, 1959, BHADRA 7, 1881 Part II 
- - - - -- - - - - - - 

-SE : IE - - 25 SI 

: --- - - - -- - - -- 
Three witnesses were examined by respondent one in support of his contention 
that an Arya Samajist retains the caste in which he was born even after he 
became an Arya Şamajist. R . W . ? Pandit Narenderji, the President on the 
Antarangu Sabha, R . W . 3 Pandit Indra Vidyawachaspati, the Vice -Chancellor of the 
Gurukul at Kangri, and R . W . 4 Hazarilal Rohatgi, the Principal of the Dayanand 
Ango - Vedic College, Kanpur, are those three witnesses. Their evidence is that 
a person by becoming an Arya Samajist does not lose his caste and that he 
retains the caste in which he was born , 

P .Ws. 2 and 7 have given evidence that if an Arya Samajist says that he 
belongs to a particular caste even after he became an Arya Samajist , he ceases 
to be an Arya Samajist whereas P . W . 11 has given evidence that if one, even 
after becoming an Arya Samajist , declares that he belongs to any particular 
caste , he does not ccasc to be an Arya Samajist merely by reason thereof, but 
continues to be one until removed in accordance with the rules of the Arya Sumaj, 
which , however , have not been produced by any of the parties in this case. 

It is , I think , extremely difficult to base our decision on the question that arises 
for determination in this casc merely on the opinions given by these witnesses 
examined by the parties. As pointed out by the Supreme Court in CHATTUR 
BHUJ VITHALDAS JASANI V , MORESHWAR PARASHARAM AND OTHERS (i ) , 
we are not in deciding this case , really concerned with the theology of the Arya 
Sarnaj, as propounded by the witnesses referred to above. What we are really 
concerned with is the determination of the social and political consequences of a 
conversion , it it can be sald that a conversion takes place when a person born in 
a particular caste becomes an Arya Samajist . As further pointed out by their 
Lordships of the Supreme Court, the question must be decided in a commonsense 
practical way rather than on theoretical and theocratic grounds. 

We are in this case , concerned with the social and political consequences of 
respondent one having become a member of the Arya Samaj although he was 
born in the Samgar caste . It seems to me that , in a case like this , the true position 
is that if a person is born in a particular caste , there cannot , in the absence of 
Intentional abandonment or renunciation of that caste by that person , or expulsion 
or ex -communication by persons belonging to the caste in which he was born , be 
any deprivation or loss of caste . The three factors to be considered in order to 
decide whether there was such loss or deprivation of caste in so far as It involves 
deprivement of the political and social rights of a person who becomes a proselyte 
by his getting into the Arya Samaj fold are those which have been laid down by 
the Supreme Court in the decision to which I have referred . On page 244, of that 
report, this is what Bose , J ., said : 
" Conversion brings many complexities in its train , for it imports a complex 

composite composed of many ingredients . Religious beliefs , spiritual 
experience and emotion and intellectual conviction mingle with more 
material considerations such as severance of family and social ties 
and the casting off or retention of old customs and observances . 


Looked at from the secular point of view , there are three factors which have 

to be considered : ( 1 ) the reactions of the old body ; ( 2 ) the intentions 
of the individual himself and ( 3 ) the rules of the new order . If 
the old order is tolerant of the new faith and sees no reason to 
outcaste or ex - communicate the convert and the individual himself 
desires and intends to retain his old social and political ties the con 
version is only nominal for all practical purposes and when we have 
to consider the legal and political rights of the old body the views of 
the new faith hardly matter . 


The new body is free to ostracise and outcaste the convert from its fold 

if he does not adhere to its tenets , but it can hardly claim the right 
to interfere in matters which concern the political rights of the old 
body when neither the old body nor the convert is seeking either 
legal or political favours from the new as opposed to purely spiritual 
advantage. 


On the other hand, if the convert has shown by his conduct and dealings 

that his break from the old order is so complete and Anal that he 
no longer regards himself as a member of the old body and there is 
no reconversion and readmittance to the old fold , it would be wrong 
to hold that he can nevertheless claim temporal privileges and political 
advantages which are special to the old order." 


- 


. 


Src. 9 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 29 , 1959 / BHADRA 7, 1881 


2043 


Now , in this case , there is no evidence that respondent one was either 
ostra ized or laniined from his caste by those belonging to the old order who 
are still in it. It is not the case of the appellant that respondent one lost his 
Laste in that way . 

An attempt was made on the basis ol the evidence given by P .Wş. 5 and o to 
show that when respondent one was elected to the Hyderabad Legislative Assembly 
in the year 1951, the Harijan Community was generally dissatisfied with some of 
his activities after such election . P . W . 5 Shri Ramaswamy is a person who was 
elected to the Ilouse of the People in the year 1950 and he gave evidence that the 
Harijans of the Hyderabad State did not acknowledge respondent one as one of 
themselves . Ile added that the reason for that was that respondent one had been 
supported by the Arya Samajists and was made to stanrl on behalf of the Arya 
Samajists . In his cross - examination , he admitted that in the General Elections 
which were held in the year 1951 - 52 to the Legislative Assembly of the Hyderabad 
State , respondent one was elected for a seat which had been reserved lor the 
scheduled castes . He also admitted that he did not know the institutions of the 
Harljans which repudiated respondent one as being a person belonging to that 
community . P . W . 6 Ganpatrao who is a Chambhar and therefore a person belonging 
to a schedulci casie , gave evidence that as the attitude of respondent one was 
not satisfactory towards the untouchables, they were not satisfied with his work . 
He also gave evidence that the reason for such feeling was that respondent one 
was trying to win over the untouchables to Arya Samaj. In the course of his 
cross - exarnination he stated that the Ilarijans were dissatisfied with the personal 
activities of respondent one. But, curiously enough , in the course of his cross 
examination , he pretended ignorance of the fact whether respondent one was 
the President of the All India Depressed Classes League of Hyderabad and whether 
in the year 1953, hc convened a conference of the All Inala Depressed Classes 
League at Hyderabad . 

It is therefore seen from the evidence of these two witnesses that their evidence, 
besides being vague and inconclusive , cannot be regarded as acceptable . Secondly , 
neither P . W . 5 nor P . W . 6 is a person belonging to the caste in which respondent 
one was born , P . W . 5 is a Mala whereas P . W . 6 is a Chambhar . In the absence 
of any evidence, which neither of these two witnesses gave , as to the kind of 
persons who had cause for dissatisfaction against respondent one by rcason of 
some activities on his part which they did not like, it is iinpossible to hold that 
their evidence throws any light on the reactions of the old order to which respondent 
one belonged prior to his conversion , if it can be called a conversion , to the Arya 
Samaj faith . 

There is thus no evidence in this case that persons belonging to the Samgar 
caste in which respondent one was born at any time alsowned respondent one or 
treated him as a person who was not one of themselves . 

It was next contended that there was some evidence in this case which demons 
trated an Intentional renunciation or abandonment on the part of respondent one, 
of the caste in which he was born . According to Mr, Reddy who appears for the 
appellant, such ranunciation or abandonment has also to be deduced from the mere 
fact that respondent one became an Arya Samajist and was therefore bound to 
repudiate the caste system based on birth . 

It is clear that no such inference can be drawn merely from the fact that 
respondent one became an Arya Samajist. It may be that having become an 
Arya Samajist in that way , respondent onc intellectually accepted sone of the 
tenets of the Arya Samaj organisation . But the question to be decided in this 
case is whether there was a break by respondent one from the old order to which 
he belonged and whether that break is so complete and final that he no longer 
regarded himseil as a member of the Samgar caste , 

Respondent one has given evidence in this case that notwithstanding his 
having become a member of the Arya Samaj, he believes in idolatry , Geetas and 
Puranas, in none of which an Arya Samajist can properly have faith , 

The appellant gave evidence that after respondent one becaine an Arya 
Samajlst , he did not mix or go about with the scheduled caste people but was 
always with the Arya Samajists 

There is no evidence in this case that after respondent one became an Arya 
Samajist, he abjured the caste system peculiar to the Hindu religion to which 
he belonged by reason of his birth , nor is there any evidence in the case that he, 
at any time, declared himself to be a person no longer belonging to the Samgar 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 


11 (,UST 29 1939, BHADRA 7, 1881 


[Part II 


caste . It is , I think , imposslble to attach much weight to the evidence given by 
the appellant that respondent one was not mixing or having any social intercourse 
with the persons belonging to the scheduled castes, His evidence is obviously 
Interested evidence . 

On the contrary , there is a considerable volume of evidence which demonstrates 
the intention of respondent one to remain in the caste in which he was born , 
The mere fact that respondent one joined the Gurukul at Kangri does not indicate 
that by so joining that institution , respondent one intended to abandon the Samgar 
casto . P . W . 4 Gop Deo Shastry , a Pracharak of the Arya Samaj in the State 
of Hyderabad , has given evidence that even Muslims, Harijans and Parşls were 
admitted to that Gurukul. R . W . 3 Pandit Indra Vidyawachaspati has given evidence 
that when respondent 1 joined that institution , he claimed to belong to a scheduled 
caste , Exhibit D - 1 which , according to R . W . 3 , was brought by respondent one and 
which is a letter addressed to R . W . 3 by one Tyagi on June 3 , 1943 , refers to res 
pondent oue as a Harijan , 

Mr. Reddy has contended before us that Exhibit D - 1 has not been properly 
proved and that any statement contained in that document cannot be regarded to 
have been made by Tyagi, which it purports to be. 

But , whether Tyagi really made that statement or not , what is material for 
the purpose of this case is that RW , 3 s evidence is to the effect that Exhibit D - 1 
was brought by respondent one to him when he sought admission to that institution 
and if in that letter there is reference to respondent one being a Harijan whatever 
else is or is not established by Exhibit D - 1 , there can be no doubt that when 
respondent one sought admission into that institution , he declared that he belonged 
to the Harijan Community . It is obvious that when he so described himself he 
was representing that he belonged to the Samgar caste in which he was born . 

There is no evidence in this case that during the period of nearly seven years 
in which he was a student of that institution , respondent one did anything from 
which it could be inferred that there was a break on his part from the Samgar 
caste or such break was s complete that he could no longer be regarded as a 
person belonging thereto . 


There is something more important than that. After he left that institution , 
between the years 1949 and 1951 respondent one was a student of the Dayanand 
Anglo - Vedic College . It is also an institution run by the Arya Samaj. RW . 4 
Hazarllal is the Principal of that College and he has given evidence with reference 
to the registers which he had maintained in that College that respondent one , wag , 
during the period when he was a student of that college , getting a scholarship 
which was granted to him by the State of Uttar Pradesh . The effect of his 
evidence is that scholarship is granted to a person belonging to the Harijan 
Community and that on the basis of a letter written by the Harijan Sahayak 
Omcer of the State of Uttar Pradesh , on September 20 , 1949, respondent one was 
granted that scholarship for the period between July , 1949 and April 1951. One 
other fact which emerges from the evidence of R . W . 4 is that when respondent one 
was a student of that college , he went on a hunger strike for the reason that 
he and the other Harijan Students were not allowed to niess in the hostel Iun by 
a Brahmin cook . 


By far the most important piece of evidence which has a material bearing on 
this case is the fact that in the general elections which were held to the Hydera 
bad Legislative Assembly in the ycar 1951, respondent one was a candidate to a 
reserved seat. He stood as a candidate as a person belonging to the Samgar caste . 
There is no evidenco that any one objccted to his competence to stand as a candi 
date to that reserved seat but there is evidence that he was successful in that 
election . 

Respondent one has given evidence that after he succeeded in that election , he 
was appointed as one of the ministers of that State and that in that cabinet, he 
represented the Schedule castes of that State . It has, however , to be noticed that 
there is no evidence in regard to that matter except that given by respondent one. 
It cmerges from the evidence that when he was such minister and between the 
years 1952 and 1956 , respondent one was a President of the Harijan M . L . A . s 
Association of the Hyderabad Legislative Assembly and that he was also the 
President of the Hyderabad Depressed Classes League, which is a branch of the 
All India Depressed Classes League. It is also in cvidence that he was the Chair 
man of the Reception Committee of the All India Depressed Classes League Con 
ference held in the year 1953. 


SEQ. % (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 29, 1959/ BHADRA 7 , 1881 


2045 


The proper inference to be drawn from the above facts is that far from res 
pondent one having discontinued to remain in the Samgar caste in which he was 
born , he still regarded himself as a person belonging to it. There is no evidence 
produced on behalf of the appellant that either there was a break on his part from 
That caste or that such break was so complete that the only possible inference is 
that respondent one no longer regarded himself as belonging to it , 


That being the position , the second test to be applied in order to decide the 
social and political consequences of respondent one professing the Arya Samaj 
faith , if applied , does not established that there was any intentional abandonment. 
by respondent one of the caste in which he was born . 


What is next to be considered are the rules of the Arya Samaj organisation in 
so far as they are relevant for our present purposes. P . W . 11 the Pradhan of the 
Sultan Bazar Branch of the Arya Samaj has given evidence that if a person still 
believe in his belonging to a particular caste even after he became a member of 
the Arya Samaj he is liable to be removed in accordance with the rules made in 
that regard , Those rules, however , were not produced . However that may be , 
there is considerable evidence in the case that important office - bearers of the 
Arya Samaj organisation were aware of the fact that respondent one stood as 
a candidate to a reserved seat of the Hyderabad Legislative Assembly as belong 
ing to the Samgar caste . There is evidence , and that is also the argument 
addressed by Mr. Reddy to us, that respondent one was actively supported during 
those elections by the members of the Arya Samaj themselves . The position there 
fore was that, far from the Arya Samaj taking any steps to expel respondent one 
from the membership of the Arya Samaj organisation , they not only gave their 
active support and assistance to respondent one in his election campaign but also 
felt quite happy that he was successful in his election . Exhibit P - 1 which is a 
document on which reliance has been placed on behalf of the appellant shows that 
in that article , respondent one was referred to by an Arya Samajist who wrote : 
that article , with considerable satisfaction , as one of those Arya Samajişts who 
were elected in that election . 


The Arya Samaj, therefore , took no steps to either outcaste or ostracize res 
pondent one from its fold on the ground that he did not adhere to its tenets , one 
of which was that in Arya Şamajist does not believe in the birthwise caste system . 
It is equally clear that the Arya Samaj could have hardly any right to interfere : 
in a matter like the election of respondent one to the Legislative Assembly of the 
State of Hyderabad or to the House of the People which concerned entirely the 
political rights of the Samgar community in which he was born , particularly 
because, respondent one never sought or aspired for any favour from the Arya 
Samaj of which he became a member , 


In my opinion , the Election Tribunal was , therefore , right in coming to the 
conclusion that by reason of respondent one having become a member of the Arya 
Samaj, he did not ccase to belong to the Samgar Caste in which he was born , and 
I come to that conclusion notwithstanding the fact that the evidence discloses that , 
in the year 1950 , respondent one was married , according to Arya Samaj rites , to 
a girl belonging to a caste which is referred to as the Sonar Caste , in the course 
of evidence . I am not convinced by the argument of Mr. Reddy that the fact that 
that marriage took place in that way established that respondent one did not 
himself at that time consider that he had retained his Samgar Caste . There is no 
evidence to show that respondent one and his wife could not have married in the 
ordinary way if they had not married according to the Arya Samaj rites. 


Likewise , there is no substance in the contention urged by Mr. Reddy that in 
the Census Report which was completed in the year 1951, respondent one was . 
referred to as an Arya . As I have already mentioned , the evidence given by the 
appellant s witnesses themselves, and particularly by P . Ws. 2 and 4 , was that an 
Arya is not necessarily an Arya Samajist . 


In my opinion , the finding of the Election Tribunal that respondent one was a 
member of the Arya Samaj on thc date of the presentation of his nomination paper 
in connection with the disputed election has to be affirmed , although its further 
finding that he was an Arya Samajist by creed , belief and profession does not 
appear to be based upon any acceptable or trustworthy material on record . Its 
finding that respondent one continued to be a member of a Scheduled Caste when 
he stood for election has also to be affirmed . 


2046 


TUIF CVETTE OF INDJA : AUGLISI 29 , 1959 / BHADRA 7 , 1881 


(Part II 


The result is that this appeal fails and must be dismissed with costs . The sum 
of Rs. 500 de pubited by the appellant as required by the provisions of the Repre 
sentation of the People Act, when he presented the appeal to this Court, will be 
paid to respondent one by way of cosle . 

Sd - A R SOMNATH IYFR , Judge. 
Narayana Pai. J : 
I agree . 

Sd - A . NARAYANA PAI, Judge , 


JIEMORANDUM OF COSTS INCURRED IN THIS APPEAL 


S ilies of S . A . 


by the 
Appellat. 


By the Res 
Pondert I. 
(Appeared in 

person ) 


Rs. n . P . 


. 


. 
. 


Rs. n . P . 
2 – 00 
2 - 00 
I – 87 


Court fce on Memo of Appeal . . 

Do. on Power of Attorney 
Do . 07 processes . . . . 

Do. on copies of ordti8 . . 
Adv cate s fco . . . . . 
Costs of Postage and Telegram etc., 
Fees for copying . . . . 

TOTAL 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 


1400 


• 
. 


10 - 00 
2 – 62 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 36 – 02 

- - - - 
. 55 :51 


- 


- 


- - - 


It is ordered that the sum of Rs. 500 (Rupees five hundred ) deposited by the 
Appellant (Original petitioner ) foresaid as required by the provisions of the 
Representation of the People Act , when he presented this appeal to this Court 
shall be paid to Respondent- 1 ( Shanker Deo Vedalankar ) aforesaid by way of 
costs of this Appeal. 

Sd ./- B . MOPURI REDDY , 
III Deputy Registrar . 

[No. 82 /431 / 57. ] 
C. B . LAL , Under Secy . 

- - - - - - - 
MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 10th August 1959 
S . O . 1862. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby directs that the following further amend 
ments shall be made to the Indian Frontier Administrative Service Rules , 
namely : 

( 1) In the said rules for sub - clause 1 (b ) (iii) of Rule 10 (I ) the following shall 
be substituted : 
" ( ili ) Other persons whose applications are forwarded by the Central Gov 

ernment, State Governments , North - East Frontier Agency Adminis 
tration , Naga -Hills Tuensang Area Administration and the Univer 
sities." 


$ 14 . 3( ii) · 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 29, 1939 / BHADRA 7, 1881 


2047 


The amendment hereby made shall be deemed to have taken effect on and from 
the 23rd February 1959 . 

(2 ) In the said rules the following shall be substituted for Rule 10 ( I) 2: — 
" 2. Vacancies to be Alled by promotion . 
To the extent guitable candidates are available, as nearly as possible lwenty 

per cent of the total authorised strength of the cadre (excluding 
deputation and leave reserves ) shall be filled by promotion of officers 
belonging to the local services of the North East Frontier Agency , 
Naga - Hills Tuensang Area Administration and the States of Manipur 

and Tripura on the advice of the Special Selection Board ." 
The amendment hereby made shall be deemed to have taken effect on and from 
the 23rd February 1939. 

(3 ) In the said Rules, under Rule 10 ( II) ( I ), the following shall be inserted 
below " 4 . A representative of the Ministry of Defence " , as proviso : 
" Provided that short -term vacancies in Grade I which are likely to last 

for a period not exceeding four months at a time shall be filled by 
the Governor of Assam by appointment of Grade II Officers of the 
Service from the list of officers approved by the Departmental Promo 

tion Committee ." 
The amendment hereby made shall be deemed to have taken effect on and 
from the date of issue of this notification , 

( 4 ) In the said rules, the following shall be substituted for rule 10 ( II ) ( 2 ) 
under Maintenance. : 
“ ( 2 ) All vacancies arising in Grade II by such promotions or otherwise 

shall be filled on the advice of the Special Selection Board partly by 
direct recruitment from the sources specified in sub - clause 1 (b ) of 
clause I of this rule and partly by promotion of officers belonging 
to the local services of the North East Frontier Agency , Naga - Hills 

Tuensang Area administration and the States of Manipur and Tripura : 
Provided that subject to suitable candidates being available, as nearly as 

possible one - half of the maintenance vacancies occurring in Grade II 
during the first five years of the commencement of these rules shall 

be Alled by promotion : 
Provided further that subject to suitable tribal candidates being available 

as nearly as possible one-half of the vacancies in Grade II Alled by 
direct recruitment during the first ten years of the commencement 
of these rules and during each period of five years thereafter shall 

be filled by the appointment of tribal candidates : 
Provided further that short- term vacancies in Grade II which are likely 

to last for a period not exceeding four months at a time, shall be 
temporarily filled by the Governor of Assam by the appointment of 

persons who are not members of the Service ." 
The amendments hereby made shall be deemed to have taken effect on and from 
the 23rd February 1959 . 

[No. 459 / NEFA / 59.) 


9 . O . 1853 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby directs that the following further amend 
ments shall be made to the Indian Frontier Administrative Service Rules, 
namely : - 1 
( 1 ) In Schedule I of the said Rules, 
( a ) Grade 1, 
( i ) for the figure " 4" against Sl. No. " ( x ) - Deputation Reserve " , the 

Agure " g " shall be deemed to have been substituted with effect from 

23 - 2 - 1959 ; 
( ii) the following shall be deemed to have been added as Si. No, xli with 

effect from 21 - 7 - 1959; 
" ( xii) Addi, District Magistrate, Manipur . . 1" 


2018 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 29, 1959 /BHADRA 7 , 1881 


[PART II 


( ili ) for the figure " 24 " against the entry " Total” , the figures " 20 " and 

" 30 " shall be deemed to have been substituted with effect from 

23 - 2 - 1959 and 21 - 7- 1959 respectively , 
(b ) Grade 11, 
( i) for the Agure " 2 " against Sl. No . " ( iv ) - Deputation Reserve " , the 

figure " 3 " shall be deemed to have been substituted with effect 

from 23- 2 - 1959 ; 
( ii ) for the figure “ ” against Si, No. ( vi ) Asstt. Political Officers, Man 

pur" , the figure " 1" shall be deemed to have been substituted with 

effect from 21 - 7 - 1959 ; 
( iii ) for the figure " 23 " against the entry " Total" , the figures " 24 " and " 22" 

shall be deemed to have been substituted with cffcct from 23 - 2 - 1959 

and 21 - 7- 1959 respectively . 
( 2 ) In Schedule II of the said Rules, 
( a ) Gade 1, 
(1) the following shall be deemed to have been inserted after Sl. No. 

( 4 ) with effect from 23 - 2 - 1959 : 
" (5 ) Commissioner, Naga Hills Tuensang Area 
( ii ) The posts at existing Sl. Nos . "58" shall be deemed to have been 

renumbered as " 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 " . 
( iii ) the following shall be deemed to have been added as Sl. Nos . ( 10 ) 

and ( 11 ) with effect from 23- 2 - 1959 : 
" 10 . Dy. Commissioner or Addl. Dy. Commissioner, Naga Hills 

Tuensang Area 
" 11, Secretary , Naga Hills Tuensang Area 

. . 1" 
( iv ) for the existing figure " G " against the entry " Total" , the figure " 11" 

shall be deemed to have been substituted with effect from 23 - 2 - 1959 . 
(b ) Grade II, 
( 1) the following shall be deemed to have been added as Sl. No. ( 6 ) 

with effect from 23 - 2 - 1959 : 
" . Assistant Commissioner, Naga Hills Tuensang Area . . 1" 
( ii) the figure " P " against the entry " Total" shall be deemed to have 

been substituted by the figure " 7 " with effect from 23 - 2 - 1959 . 


. . 


1 


. . 


1 " 


[No. 458 /NEFA / 59.) 


New Delhi, the 18th August 1959 


S . O . 1854 . - In pursuance of sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 11 and clause ( b ) of sub 
rule ( 2 ) of rule 14 of the Central Civil Services ( Classification , Control and 
Appeal) Rules , 1967, the President hereby makes the following amendment in 
the Schedule to the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
External Affairs No. S .R .O . 21 dated the 23rd December , 1957 , namely : 

In Part I of the said Schedule, after the existing entries, the following entries 
shall be inserted namely : 


North -East Frontier Agency 

All posts 


Governor of ASSAM 


Governor of ASSAM 


ANI. 


[No. 478 - NEFA / 69. ) 
G . S . PURI, Dy . Secy . 


BRO . 


GA 


OF 


" IA : AUGUST 29, 1969 /BHADRA 7, 1881 


2049 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Expenditure) 

New Delhi, the 21st August 1959 
S . O . 1855 . - In pursuance of sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 11 , clause ( b ) of sub - rule ( 2 ) 
of rule 14 and sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 23 of the Central Civil Services (Classification , 
Control and Appeal) Rules , 1957, the President hereby makes the following 
amendment in the Schedule to the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Finance Department of Expenditure ) No. S . R . O . 613 , dated the 
28th February 1957 , namely : - - 

In the said Schedule 

In Part I, after the existing entries, the following entries shall be inserted , 
namely : 


" Junior Aralyst 
Research Officer 


Secretary 
Secretary 


Secretary 
Secretary 


Ali. 
All." 


[No. 1 ( 15 ) - E . I( A ) / 59 . ] 
N . SUBRAMANIAN , Under Secy . 


( Department of Economic Atatrs ) 


2050 


New Delhi, the 21st August 1959 


S . O . 1856 - Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India , as on the 14th August 1959. 


BANKING DBPARTMENT 


Liabilities 


Rs. 


Assets 


Ra. 


Capital paid up . . . . . 5300 ,00, 000 Notes . . . . . . 

21,01,65,000 
Reserve Fund . . . . . 80 ,00 ,00,000 Rupee Coin . . . 

2 ,67, 000 
National Agricultural Credit (Long -term 

Subsidiary Coin , , 

5 ,73, 000 
Operations) Fund , . . . 

30,00 ,00,000 
National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation ) 

Bilts Purchase and Discouncet - 
Fund . . . . . . 

4 .00, 00 000 

( a ) Internal 
Deposits : - 

(5 ) External 
( a ) Government 

(C ) Goverment Treasury Bills 

4 ,29 - 0 . 003 
( 1) Central Government 

51,54,91,000 Balances held abrost 

11 , 65 ,51, 000 
(2 ) Other Governments 

41 ,74, 85 , 000 * * L010s and Advances to Goverments 

22 .01, 90 . 000 
(6 ) Banks 

45, 08 ,93,003 Other Loans and Advancest 

69, 19 ,62 , 00 
(c ) Others 

160 . 77 ,50, 000 Ta vestments 

353 . 88 . 90 . 09 ) 
Bills Payable 

19 ,96 ,71.000 Other Assets 

10 ,03 , 50 , 000 
Other Liabilities 

11 . 09 ,04,000 
TOTAL 502 , 21, 94 ,000 

TOTAL . . . . 503, 21, 9 .5000 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - -- 
* Indudes Cash & Short term Securities . 
* *Jncludes Temporary Overdrafts to State Grerriments . 

The item Other Loans and Advances includes Rs. 40 .09 ,000 Advanced to scheduled his against usance bilis unda Section 
17 (4 ) (c ) of the Reserve Bank of India Act. 
Datsd the 19th day of August , 1959 . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST29,1959/BHADRA7,1881 


Lities 


[PARTJI 


An Account pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 , to the week ended the 14th day of August 1959 . 

ISSUE DEPARTMENT 


Sec.8(ii)] 


POL 


Lisbilities 


Re 


Re. 


Assets 


- 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Notes beld in the Banking 

Department . . 
Notes in circulation . . 

Total Notes igsbed 


21,01,65, 000 
1680 ,11,83,000 


A . Gold Coin and Bullion : 

@ ) Held in India . 
(1) Held outside India 
Foreign Securities 


, 
, 


117 ,76 ,03 ,000 

.. 
1635- 0 ,89,000 


1701, 13,48,000 


280, 76 , 92 ,000 


134 , 20 ,01,000 


TOTAL OF A . . 
B . Rupee Coin . . . 
Government of India Rupee 

Securities . . . 
Internal Bills of Exchange and 
other commercial paper 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST29,1959/BHADRA7,1881 


1, 286,16 ,55, 000 


TOTAL - LIABILITIES 


1701,1348 , 000 


TOTAL - ASSETS 


1701, 13 ,48 ,000 


Dated the 19th day of August, 1959 . 


H . V . R . IENGAR , 

Governor. 


[ Yo , F . 3(2)- BC /59.] 

A BAKSI, JL . Secy . 


2051 


252 


GA . 


OF INDIA : AUGUST 29, 1959 /BHADRA 7, 1881 


(Part II 


(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 24th August 1959 
$ . O . 1857 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 6 
of the Capital Issues ( Control ) Act , 1947 (29 of 1947 ) , the Central Government 
hereby makes the following amendment in the Capital Issues ( Exemption ) Order , 
1949, published with the order of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Finance No. F .14 ( 1 ) -CCI, 49, dated the 20th January , 1949 , namely : 
In sub - clause ( a ) of clause 3 of the said Order , for the words " five lakhs 
of rupees " the words " ten lakhs of rupees " shall be substituted . 

( No. F . 14 ( 2 ) - CCI/ 59 . ] 

A . BAKSI, 
Controller of Capital Issues. 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

LAND CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 29th August 1959 
S .O . 1858 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Land Cus 
toms Act , 1924 ( 19 of 1924 ) , the Central Board of Revenue hereby makes the 
following further amendment in its notification No. 22 - Customs, dated the 2nd 
February 1952, namely : 

In the Schedule annexed to the said notification , under the heading C . Land 
Customs areas under the jurisdiction of the Collector of Land Customs, Shillong . 
and the sub - heading SHILLONG CIRCLE , for the existing entry in column 2 
against Borsora , the following entries shall be substituted , namely : 

" (i) Borsora (India ) - Tahirpur via Borsora (Pakistan ) dumping place . 
( ii) Trolly track from Cherragaon quarry ( India ) to Cherragaon (Pakistan ) 

dumping ground in Pakistan . 
( iii ) Trolly track from Chalitacherra quarry ( India ) to Samsar Bil in 

Pakistan , 
( iv ) Trolly track from Gauripur ( India ) Quarry to Samsar Bil in Pakistan . 

(No. 4. ] 
M , C . DAS , Secy . 


ahirpur via El be substitisting entstoms, Shilland 


OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE & LAND 
CUSTOMS , GOA FRONTIER DIVISION , BELGAUM . 

SHOW CAUSE NOTICE 
Belgaum , the 27th May 1959 


Shri Anant Shanu Bandodkar of Goa , LotAli Goa . 
SUBJECT : - Seizure of Gold bullion sovereigns and other ornaments, Indian currency 

etc . on 15th February , 1957. 
S . O . 1859 . — Whereas there is reason to believe that the goods and currency 
mentioned in the subjoined schedule were about to be exported to Goa from India 
by a route other than the one prescribed under Section 4 (b ) of the Land Customs 
Art, 1921 without a permit as required under Section 5 ( 1) of the Land Customs 
Act, 1924 , 

And whereas there is reason to believe that the goods mentioned in the Schedule 
were about to be exported to Goa from the Indian Union in contravention of: 
( 1) The Government of India Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Export 

Control Order No . 1 /54 of 10th May 1954 deemed to have contraven 
ed the Export Control Order No, 1 / 58 of 1st May 1958 as subsequently 
amended issued under Sections 3 ( a ) and 4A of the Imports and 
Exports ( Control) Act , 1947, and further deemed to have been issued 
under Section 19 of the Sea Customs Act , 1878 . 


SEC. BU ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 29 , 1959 / BHADRA 7, 18812053 


( 2 ) Government of India , Ministry of Finance , Notification No. 12 ( 11 ) . 

F . I . / 48 of 25th August 1948 and No. 12 ( 11 ) F . I. / 51 of 27th February 
1951 as amended by Notification No . 2 ( 26 ) - E . F . VII / 53 of 5th February 

1955 . 
( 3 ) Reserve Bank of India , Notification No. F . E . R . A . 105 / 51 R . B . dated 27th 

February 1951, as amended by Notification No. F . E . R . S . 128 /54 dated 
11th September 1954, 140 /55 dated 10th November 1955 , 147 /57 R . B . 
dated 19th March 1957, F . E . R . A . 157 / 57 R . B . dated 5th August 1957 
and F . E . R . A . 162 / 58 R . B . dated 29th April 1958 and Notification No. 
F . E . R . A , 167 /58 - R . B . of 17th October 1958 issued under Section 8 ( 2 ) 
of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act , 1947 and further deemed to 

have been issued under Section 19 of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 . 
And whereas it appears that the acts of Shri Anant s . Bandodkar as a person 
concerned in the above offence attract the operation of Section 7 ( 1 ) ( c ) of the 
Land Customs Act, 1924 and Section 167 ( 8 ) of the Sea Customs Act , 1878 read 
with Section 23 - A of the F . E .R . Act, 1947 and Section 3 ( 2 ) of Import and Export 
(Control ) Act, 1947 . 

Now , therefore, Shri Anant S , Bandodkar is hereby called upon to show cause 
to the A . C . C . Ex . G . F . Belgaum why a penalty should not be imposed on him 
under the above Sections and why the goods and the currency mentioned in the 
Schedule should not be confiscated under Sections 5 ( 3 ) of the Land Customs Act, 
1924 , and Section 167 (8 ) of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 , read with Section 23 - A 
of the F . E . R . Act , 1947 and Section 3 ( 2 ) of Imports and Exports (Control) Act , 
1947 , as made applicable to the Land Customs Act, 1924 . 

The basis for the liability for the goods and the currency to confiscation and his 
liability to penalty are set out in the annexure to the Show Cause Notice . 

Shri Anant S . Bandodkar is hereby directed to produce at the time of the 
showing cause all the evidence or documents upon which he intends to rely in 
gupport of his defence. He is further directed to inform whether he desires to 
be heard in person by the Assistant Collector of Central Excise, G . F . Belgaun 
in the case . 

Shri Anant S . Bandodkar should submit his reply to this Show Cause Notte . 
together with all documents and evidence , if any , within 30 days of publication 
of this notice failing which the case will be decided ex - parte on merit . 

SCHEDULE 


No, 


Description 


Quantity 


Gold bullion 


T .M . G . 
3 - 10 - 6 

1 -5 - 3 
0 - 5 -5 


Two sovereign coing. 
One guinea Gold ring 
Indian Currency. 


0 - 5 - 0 
Rs . 150 /- ( one hundred & Fifty only .), 


[No. VIII (b ) 10 - 331 /58 /84-) 

E . R . SRI KANTIA , 
Agsistant Collector. 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE , HYDERABAD DN . 


Hyderabad Dn ., the 30th July , 1959 


S . O . 1860 . - In exercise of the powers conferred on me under Rule 5 of thc Central Excise 
Rules , 1944 , I hereby empower the Central Excise Officers specified in column I below to 


2054 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 29 , 1959 / BHADRA 7, 1881 


[Part II 


exercise the powers of the Collector under the rule enumerated in column 2 subject to the restric 
tions in column 3 . 


Rank of Officer 


Rule in respect of 
which power is 

delegated 


Restrictions if any 


Assistant Collector of Central 

Excisc . 


- 


12 -A 


They shall grant rebate in cases 
where experty relate to ports 
other than the Major ports, 


Addendum No. 4 to this Office Notification No. 5 /57 dated 26 -2 - 1957 

G . KORUTHU , 

Collector , 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 21st August 1959 
S . O . 1861 / IDRA / B / Am . ( 2 ) . - In cxercise of the powers conferred by gection 
of the Industries ( Development and Regulation ) Act, 1951 ( 65 of 1951) , the 
Central Government hereby appoints Mr. G . N . Noel- Tod as a member of the 
Central Advisory Council of Industries established by the Order of the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry No. S . O , 216 , dated 
the 20th January , 1959 , and directs that the following amendment shall be made 
in the said Order, namely : 
In the said Order , under the heading " To represent the interests of owners 

of industrial undertakings in scheduled industries" after entry No. 13 
relating to Dr . R . R . Hattiangadi, the following entry shall be 

inserted , namely : 
" 13A . Mr. G . N . Noel- Tod , O . B . E ., C / o Messrs Parry and Co., Ltd ., Dare 
House , Madras." 

[No. 1 (17) IA ( II ) (G ) / 59.) 
K . C . MADAPPA , Dy. Secy. 


( Indian Standards Institution ) 

New Delhi, the 17th August , 1959 
S . O . 1862. - In pursuance of sub - regulations (2 ) and ( 3 ) of regulation 3 of the Indian Stan 
dards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution here 
by polifics that the Indian Standards, particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto 
annexed , have been established during the period itth July to 15th August 1959 . 


THE SCHEDULE 


Brief Particulars 


No . and title of 

the Indian 
Si. No, and title ofthe Indian Standard Standard or 
No. established 

Standards, if 
any, super 
scded by thc 
New Indian 

Standard 


2 


I 


IS :636 - 1959 Specification for 

Rubber -Lined , Woven - Jacket 
ed Hosc for use in General Fire 
Fighting Service . 


This specification prescribes the 

requirements and the methods of 
test for $ 0 mm ( or 2 in .), 65 
mm (or 2 ) in .), and 70 mm (or 
2 . in . ) internal diamcter rubber 
lined ; woven -jacketed hose for 
use in general fire ighting serm 
vice ( Price Rs. 1 : 50 ) 


BEC , 3(1 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 29, 1959 / BHADRA 7, 1881 


2015 


2 


IS : 1223 - 1958 Specification for 
Apparatus for tlic Determina 
tion of Fatin Wholc Milk , Eva 
porated (Unyweetened ) Milk , 
Separated Milk , Skim Milk , 
Buttermilk and Cream by the 
Gerber Method . 


3 


4 


I $ : 1295 - 1959 Specification for 
Needle Bars for Sewing Ma 

chines . 
IS : 1324 - 1958 Glossary of Tex 

tile Terms Relating to Fabrics 
made from Man -Made Fibres 
or Filaments , 


This standard specifics the ap 

paratus icquired for the deter 
mination of percentage of fat 
in whole milk , evaporated (un 
Awoctened ) milk , separated milk , 
skim milk , buttermilk and cream 
by the Gerber Method (Price 
Rs. 2 . 00 ). 
This standard covers the require 
ments for necdle bars for sewing 
machines of the so - called house 
hold pattern ( Price Re. I 00) . 
This standard prescribes defini 

tions of textile terms relating 
to various types of fabrics made 
from man -made fibres or fila 
ments , (Price Rs. 1 . 50 ) . 
This standard prescribes defini 
tions of terms commonly ugcd 

in the man -made Abre industry , 
(Price Rs . 2 . 00 ) . 
This standard covers coniferous 

timber used for aircraft pur 
poses and specifies the require 
ments in regaid to the selection 
of material, permissible defects , 
conversion and seasoning of 
such timber (Price Rs. 1 50 ). 


5 


IS : 1325 - 1958 Glossary of Tex 

tile Terms Relating to Man 
Made Fibres of Filaments , 


6 


IS : 1329 - 1958 Specification for 

Aircraft Timber Intended for 
Further Conversion . 


Copics of these Indian Standards are available for sale with the Indian Standards Institution 
" Manak Bhavan " , 9 , Mathura Road , New Delhi - 1 and also at its Branch Offices at 0) General 
Assurance Building, 230 , Dr, Dadabhoy Naoroji Road , Fort, Bombay - I , ( 11 ) P - II Mission Row 
Extension , Calcutta - I , and ( ii ) 2 /21 , First Line Beach , Medres - 1 . 

NO. MDC /11(4).] 


2056 


New Delhi , the 18th August 1959 
das . 0 .1863 - In parfume of sub -regulation (1) of regulation 8 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1959 , the Indian Stan 
do Institution hertby notifies that one licence , particolars of which are given in the Schedule hereto apneked , has been toeved . 

THE SCHEDULE 


Licence No. and Dats 


Period of Validity 


Name & Address of the Licen - Article covered by the 

Licence 


Relegant Indian 

dard 


Stan 


- 


No. 


H 


. 


" 


From 


To 


I CM / L -95 4- 8- 1998 


15- 8 -1999 


14 -8 - 104 


The National Electrical Indus- Three phase Induction Mo- IS : 3 25 - 1956 Speci 
toia Ltd . , Industrial Estate , tors for Lodustrial Use , fcation for Three 
Lalbaug, Bomber - 12 , 

from I hp to to hp, phase Induction Mo 

tors for Industrial 
Use (Amended ). 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST29,1959/BHADRA7,1881 


INO. MDC / 12 ( 203)- L . ] 


[PartI 


S . O . 1864 - 4 cxcrcise of the powers conferred by sub - regulations ( 2 ) and (b ) of regulation of the Indian Standards lastitution (Certification Marks) 
Regulations, 1955 , the ladian Standards Institution hereby notifies the issue of errata stips, particulars ofwhich are given in column (4 ) of the Schedule 
hereto anaczed , in respect of the Indian Standards specified in columo (2 ) of the said Schedule . 

THE SCHEDULE 


Seba.$(11)] 


Sl. 
No. 


No. and title of Indian Standard 


particulars of Esrata 


Slip 


Issued 


No. and date of Gazette Notification in 
which establishment of Indian Standard 

was gotified 

(3 ) 


S . O . 350 dated 14th February 1959 


Falues against grade 


In Table I on page 3 , the existing 

B , have been corrected 


I IS : 1068- 1958 Specification for Copper , 

Nickel and Chromium Electroplated 

Coatings, 
2 IS : 1117 - 1958 Specification for One-Mark 

Pippettes 


S . 0 . 856 dated 25th April 1959 


In line 3 of clause B - 1 . 4 . 1 On page 7 R - N /42 has been 

corrected to read R = N / 42 


Copies of these errata slips are available free of cost, with the Indian Standards Institution Manak Bhavan , 9 Mathura Road , New Delhi - 1 And also 
at its Branch Offices at (1) General Assurance Building, 230 , Dr. Dadabhoy Naoroji Road , Fort, Bombay- 1 , 1 ) P - II, Mission Ror Extension , 
Calcutt & I , and ( UD) 2 / 21 , First Line Beach , Madras- 1. 

(No. MDC / 11 (10 ) 1 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST2.1999/BHADRA7,1881 


2057 


S . O , 1865. In parsuance of regulation 4 of the Indian Standards Lastitution (Certification Marks ) Regulations, 1955. the fadian Standerds Institution 
hereby go ifies that amendments to the Indian Standards given in the Schedule hereto annexed have been issued under the powers conferred by sub ! 
regulation 11 ) nf regulation 3 of the said regulations, 

THE SCHEDULE 


2098 


S . 
No. 


No. and title of the Indian 
Standard amended 


No. & date of 
Amendment 


Brief Particulars of amendment 


Date of effect of the 

Amendment 


No. and date of 
Gazette Notification 
in which the estab 
lishment of the In 
dian Standard was 

notified 


(3 ) 


3 ) 


I IS : 174 - 1991 Specification for S . R . O . 658 dated 

Slapn clettes (Plain ) ( Twiat ) 26th March 1955. 


No. I Anguit 1959 


18th August 1959 


The scope of the standard has been widened 
by including another yariety of flannelettes 

namely fandelettes (plain ), stained and 
soured covering defence requirements 
and consequential charges have been made 
in the standard 


--FELLE 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST29,1959/BHADRA7,1881 


2 


IS : 175 - 1951 Specification for 

Cotton Bed Sheets ( Tercium ) 


Do. 


No. 1 August 1959 


Provisions have been made to COYCT an addi- 28th August 1959 

tional variety of cotton bed sheet covering 
defcnce requirements and consequcntiai 
changes made in the star dard . 


Copies of these amendment slips are available , free of cost, with the Indian Standards Institution , Maak Bhayan , 9 Mathura Road , New Delhi- I 
and also atits Branch Offices at (i )General Assurance Building , 230 Dr. Dadabhoy Ngoroji Road , Fort , Bombay - I , ( ii ) P - II Mission Row Estension 
Calcutta - I , and (iii ) 2 / 21 , First Lipe Beach , Madras I . 


No. MDC / 11(9 )]. 

C . N . MODAWAL 
Deputy Director (Marks .) 


[PAXTH 


tro . A( li)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 29 , 1969 / BHADRA 7, 1881 


2059 


MINISTRY OF STEEL , MINES AND FUEL 

(Department of Mines & Fuel) 

New Delhi, the 19th August 1959 
S . O . 1866 . - Whereas by the notification of the Government of India in the 
Department of Mines and Fuel (Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel ) SRO 3108 
dated the 24th September, 1957, under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 4 of the Coal 
Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957 ( 20 of 1957) , the Central 
Government gave notice of its intention to prospect for coal in the lands measur 
ing 10 ,992 . 40 acres in the locality specified in the Schedule appended to that noti 
fication and reproduced in the Schedule appended hereto ; 

And whereas in respect of the said lands no notice under sub - section ( 1 ) of 
gection 7 of the said Act has been given ; 

Now , therefore , in exercisc of the powers conferred by the said sub -section ( 1 ) 
of section 7, the Central Government hereby specifies further period of one year 
commencing from 24th September , 1959 , as the period within which the Central 
Government may give notice of its intention to acquire the said lands or any 
rights in or over such lands . ! 


SCHIDUL 


Name of Village Thana 


Thana Arca in 

No . Acres 


Arca required for 


prospecting 


- - - 


- 


45 


Khetro , 
Chaikeri 
Jaridih , 


Peterbar , 
Peterbar . 
Nawadih . 


19 


Phushro . 


2628 . 42 Whole arca . 
3316 . 60 Wholc area. 
999 . 22 Whole area except the arca mcasuring 

321. 22 acres in which there already exist 

oollicrics, 
1073 . 82 Whole arca except the arca measuring 

306 88 acres in which there alrcady exists 

a colliery . 
2978 - 34 Whole area except the area Measuring 

1814. 40 acres in which there already exists 
i colliery . 


Nawadih . 


67 


Dhori . 


, Nawadih . 


68 


Boundries Description 
North . – Village Kathara No. 117, Jarangdih No. 116, Baidkara No. 20 , Kargali 
No. 66 . 

East.- Village Pichhri No. 49 . 
South .- Village Pichhri No. 49, Jhujhko No. 48 , Bagaria No. 47. 
West. – Village Basaria No. 47, Keswari No. 44, Champi No. 43 , Kaltara No. 117. 

[ No . C2-8 ( 21) / 57. ] 
B . ROY , Under Secy . 


vilget internet to punkter som 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

(Department of Agriculture ) 
( Indian Council of Agricultural Research ) 

New Delhi, the 12th August 1959 
S . O . 1867. - In pursuance of the provisions of the Indian Cotton Cess Act, 1923 
( 14 of 1923 ) , the Central Government are pleased to appoint the following persons 


2060 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 29, 1959 /BHADRA 7, 1881 


Part 1 


to be members of the Indian Central Cotton Committee , Bombay for the period 
shown against each : 


S . No. 


Namo and address 


Section 


period 
upto 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


4 (iv ) 


31- 3 -60 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 4( viii) 


31- 3- 62 


1. Shri Ernst Kuebler . . 

Clo M / S Volkart Bros., 

Bombay . Vico Shri A . Mueller . 
2. Thakur Nahar Singh . . 

Kuarsi, Aligarh 
3 . Shri P . D . Nair . . . 

Agriculture Adviser , 
Kerala State, Trivandrum , 
vico Shri K . Sivasankara Menon , 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


4 (ix ) 


31- 3- 60 


INo. 1- 12 /58 — Com . II /IV .) 


New Delhi, the 18th August 1959 
8 . 0 , 1868. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 8 of the Indian Lac 
Cess Act , 1930 ( Act No , 24 of 1930 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following amendment in the Indian Lac Cess Rules , the sane having been previously 
published as required by sub -section ( 1 ) of the said section , namely : 
For rule 4 of the said rules, the following shall be substituted : 
4 ( 1 ) Save as hereinafter provided , a member of the Committee shall holdt 

oflce for three years from the date of the publication of the notification 
in the Oficial Gazette notifying his nomination or election and shall 

be eligible for re - nomination or re - election , as the case may be : 
Provided that a member elected under clause ( ill) of sub - section ( 4 ) of 

section 4 of the Act by either House of Parliament shall cease to be 
a member if he ceases to be a member of the lIouse by which he was 

elected . 
( 2 ) A member nominated or elected to fill a casual vacancy sball hold office 

so long as the member whose place he fills would have been entitled 
to hold office , if the vacancy had not occurred . 


[ No. 3 -8 /68 -Com . III. ] 


AJUDHIA PRASADA, Under Secy . 


(Department of Agriculturo ) 

CORRIGENDUM 


New Delhi, the 21st August 1959 


8 . 0 . 1869. -- In the Ministry of Food and Agriculture ( Department of Agricul 
ture ) notification No . S . R . O . 1443, dated the 16th June, 1956 , published on page 
1461 of the Gazette of India , Part 1 , Section 3, sub -section (ii ) - 


for " Creamery Butter Grading and Marketing Rules, 1941" , read " Creamery 

Butter Grading and Marking Rules 1941" . 


[No. 3 - 1/ 59 -AM .] 
V . S . NIGAM , Under Secy . 


Src , 8( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA : AUGUST 29, 1959 / BHADRA 7, 1881 


2061 


- 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS 
(Department of Communications and Civil Avlation ) 

New Delhi, the 20th August 1959 
S . O . 1870 . - In pursuance of Rule 160 of the Indian Aircraft Rules , 1937, the 
Central Government hereby exempts for the period up to the 31st Decernber , 
1959 , all persons incharge of aircraft engaged in international navigation , from 
the operation of clause ( v ) of sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 7 of the said Rules, in so far 
as it requires such persons to carry in the said aircraft, the aircraft and engine 
log books, subject to the condition that the working copies of the aforesaid docu 
ments are carried in the said aircraft. 

[NO, AR / 1957 (58 ) .] 

[No. F . 10 - A / 86 -59. ) 
D . R . KOHLI, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

New Delhi, the 17th August 1959 
$ . O . 1871, -- Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that it is neces 
gary to acquire the evacuee properties specified in the Schedule hereto annexed 
in the State of Punjab for a public purpose , being a purpose connected with the 
relief and rehabilitation of displaced persons, including payment of compensation 
to such persons; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the DA 
placed Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 1954 ) , it is 
notifled that the Central Government has decided to acquire , and hereby acquires, 
the evacuee properties specified in the Schedule hereto annexed . 

SCHEDULE 


Sl. 


No , 


Particulars of 
cvacuee property 


Name of the town & 
locality , village in 
which evacuce pro 
perty is situated 


Name of the 

& cuce 


M , A . Quershi. 


H . No . 12 Word No . 4 
at Hissar , 
Dyection No. 2 at 
Simļa . 
Shop No. 83 at 
Şimla . 


Hissar District, 
Hissar . 
Pagog Simla , 
Distt. Ambala , 
Mall Road , 
Simla , Distt 
Ambala 


Khan Obiodullah . 
Khan . 
Roshan Bibi. 


[No. 1 ( 1218 ) -58 / Comp.III/ Prop.I.} 
New Delhi, the 19th August 1959 
S . O . 1872 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Clause ( a ) of Sub -Section 
( 2 ) of Section 16 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act 
NO. 44 of 1954 the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Sawan Singh for 
the time being holding the post of Assistant Settlement Commissioner , Faridabad 
as Managing Officer for the custody, management and disposal of compensation 
pool, 

[No. 18 (10 ) Admn . (Prop ) / 59. ) 


New Delhi, the 29th August 1969 
S . O . 1873 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 3 
of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 
1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Sawan Singh as Assistant 


2062 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 29 , 1959/ BHADRA 7 , 1881 [ PART II 
- - - 

- - - - 
Settlement Commissioner for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to 
such officers by or under the said Act with effect from the date he took charge 
of his office , 

[No. 5 ( 23 ) / Admn . (Reg .) /CSC -59 .] 

M . L . PURI, 
Settlement Commissioner 

and ex -officio Under Secy . 


(Office of the Chlef Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 14th August 1959 
S . O . 1874 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary 
to acquire the evacuee properties specified in the Schedule hereto annexed in the 
State of Punjab for a public purpose , being a purpose connected with the relief 
and rehabilitation of displaced persons, including payment of compensation to 
such persons; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the Dis 
placed Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 1954 ) , it is 
notified that the Central Government has decided to acquire, and hereby acquires, 
the evacuee properties specified in the Schedule hereto annexed . 

THE SCHEDULE 


Details of property 


Location 


Name of evacuce Owner 


No. 


I Onc residential house No. Village Aur, ( in abadi) Shri Gulam Rasual, son of 

2 / 178 , North - Street, South Tehsil Nawanshchar . Mebtab Din of village 
Karam Din -Weat - Street. 

Aur, Tehsil Nawanshchar , 

District Jullundur. 
2 One housc bounded as below :-- 

Shri Hidayat Ulla son of 
North - Guardian of Guru 

Ala Din Rawal of Village 
Ram , South Gali Am . East 

Aur, Tehsil Nawanshehar, 
Alla Din & Rehmat , West - - 

District Jullundur. 
shop of Abdul Aziz & 
shop of Maya Ram . 


Do. 


[ No. 3 (46 ) Policy. II/59.] 
New Delhi, the 20th August 1959 
S . O . 1875 , - In excrcise of the powers conferred by Clause ( a ) of sub -section 
( 2 ) of Section 16 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) 
Act No . 44 of 1954 , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri S . N . Prasad 
for the time being holding the post of Olcer on Special Duty under the Regional 
Settlement Commissioner , Bihar, as Managing Officer, for the custody , manage 
ment and disposal of compensation pool. 

[No. 16 ( 18 ) -Admn ( Prop ) / 58 . ] 


S . O . 1876 . - In exercise of the powers conferred hy sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 
6 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) , the Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri S . N . Prasad for the time being holding the 
post of officer on Special Duty under the Regional Settlement Commissioner , 
Bihar , as Assistant Custodian , for the purpose of discharging the duties assigned 
to the Custodian by or under the said Act , with effect from the date he took over 
charge of his office . 

[No. 16 ( 18 ) -Admn ( Prop ) 58. ) 

M . L . PURI, 
Settlement Commissioner ( Admn ) & 

Ex - Officio Under Secy . 


fc $(11) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : AUGUST 29, 1959 /BHADRA 7, 1881 


2063 


(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 20th August 1959 
$ . 0 . 1877. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 
1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Jagmohan Lal Tandon , P . C . S ., 
Competent Officer , Punjab to the post of an Assistant Settlement Commissioner in 
the State of Punjab , for the purpose of performing in addition to his own duties 
as Competent Officer , the functions assigned to an Assistant Settlement Commis 
sioner by or under the said Act, in respect of agricultural lands , shops and other 
immovable properties in any rural areas. 

[No. F , 3 (43 ) Policy - II /59. ) 

I. N . CHIB . 
Deputy Chief Settlement Commissioner and 

Ex - Officio Dy . Secy . 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 


New Delhi, the 12th August 1959 


S , O , 1878. — The Government of the State of Mysore having nominated , in exer 
cise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the 
Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , Dr. D . V . Nadkarni, F . R . C . S ., 
F . I. C . S ., Director of Medical Services, Government of Mysore , as a member 
representing the said State on the Medical Benefit Council, in place of 
Dr. Venkatarasubba Rao , the Central Governmnent, in pursuance of the said 
section 10 , hereby makes the following further amendment in the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment HI- 1 ( 1 ) / 58 , 
dated 1st July 1958 , namely : 


In the said notification , under the heading Members for item 
following item shall be substituted , namely - - 


( 14 ), the 


" ( 14 ) Dr. D . V . Nadkarni, F .R .C . S., F .I.C . S ., Director of Medical Services, 
Government of Mysore" . 

[No. F .HI- 1 ( 132 ) / 59. ] 
BALWANT SINGH , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 13th August 1959 
S . O . 1879 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of tho 
Industrial Tribunal, Delhi, in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Palana Colliery and their workmen . 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, DELHI 
PRESENT : 
Shri E . Krishna Murti, Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal, 

27th July , 1959 
I.D . No. 81 OF 1958 

BETWEEN 
The employers in relation to the Palana Colliery 

AND 

Their workmen . 
Shri M . G . Frll - for the management. 
Dr. Jawahar Lal - for the workmen , 


2064 


(PART II 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 29 , 1959 /BHADRA 7, 1881 

- - - S 
AWARD 


- 


S 


- 


- 


- - 


- . 


. 


By G . O , No. S .R . O . LRII / 55 - 5 ( 10 ) / 57, dated the 22nd April, 1958 , the industrial. 
dispute , between the employers in relation to the Palana Colllery , and their work 
men , has been referred to this Tribunal for adjudication under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( a ) 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 


2 . The term of reference is as follows : 


What should be the wage structure of the workmen of the Palana Colliery 
keeping in view the Award of the All India Industrial Tribunal (Colllery 
Disputes) as modified by the decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal, on appeals 
against the said award ? 


3 . It is alleged on behalf of the workmen , that, as a result of the award of 
the All India Industrial Tribunal (Colliery Disputes ), as modified by the 
Labour Appellate Tribunal, tha wage structure for xovaral categories of Collery 
workmen has been specifled , that the said decision had been accepted by the 
Government of Rajasthan unconditionally , that there are several agreements 
between the Government and the workmen of the Palana Colllery in implementa 
tion of the said award , that certain payments have been made according to the 
Baid decision , that however , regarding the piece rate wages of Coal Cutters for 
their normal duties of cutting and loading coal, there is a dispute with the 
management, that they had brought about illegal reduction in wages of Coal 
Cutters, that even in the case of Coal Cutters wages the payment of load and lift 
has been regularly made, and that in regard to payment of push tub wages for 
Coal Cutters, amounting to Rs. 47, 358 . 98 , the management had moved the Gov 
ernment of Rajasthan for sanction of payment of the same, 


4 , On behalf of the management of Palana Colliery, it is alleged , that the Award 
of The All India Industrial Tribunal (Colliery Disputes) has been implemented 
in the main , that the categorisation of the employees , as laid down in the Award 
has been carried out, that the workers have also been given total emoluments , as 
laid down in the Award , that this had been done wherever possible in consultation 
with the Union , that there are still certain questions in dispute , that the total 
emoluments of Coal Cutters as well as their work load is a matter of dispute , 
that the Coal Cutters had been doing up 9 tubs of 20 C . F . a day during a 8 hours 
shift, that this included tramming , that , as per the Coal Award , separate trammer 
had been engaged , that therefore, a Coal Cutter can now do 14 times as much 
work as he was doing previously , that this would work out to 13 tubs per day, 
that however , in order to adjust work - load , it should be g tubs if separate Tram 
mers are engaged , that the piece rate of the Coal Cutters should be 1 / 5 divided 
by 9 , that the rate for push tubs cannot be the same, as laid down in paragraph 
604 of the Coal Award , that it is not the general practice in the industry to pay 
Sunday wages to any Colliery workers, piece rated , or time rated , that however 
in spite of protest by the management a provision was included in the Standing 
Orders of the Colliery , providing for payment of weekly holidays with pay for 
all classes of workmen , that the Standing Order should be modiAed that , in any 
cage , daily emoluments should bolxed in such a manner as to assure daily rated 
employees the total monthly cmoluments and no more, that the bills for arrears 
of wages under the decision of the Coal Award were under preparation , that there 
has been no reduction in the wages of Coal Cutters , that the management of the 
Palana Colliery have always been ready and willing to implement the Coal Award , 
and that the present dispute has arisen because of the unreasonable attitude of 
the Union . 


5 . The issues , that arise for determination , are: - - 

( 1 ) What should be the wages for the Coal Cutters ? 
(2 ) What should be the work load for the sald Coal Cutters ? 
( 3 ) What is the rate of wages to be paid for pushing tub87 
(4 ) From what date should the respective wages be paid ? 
(5 ) Whether the workmen are not entitled to Sunday wages ? 

( 6 ) To what relief are the several workmen entitled ? 
Issues No. 1 & 2 

6 . This is a dispute between the employers in relation to the Palana Colllery . 
and their workmen , the said dispute having been taken up by the Palana Colllery 
Mazdoor Union 


SEC. 8 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 29 , 1959 / BHADRA 7, 1881 


2065 


7. The references raise the question of the wage structure of the workmen 
of the Palana Colliery , Palana , keeping in view the Award of the All India 
Industrial Tribunal (Collicry Disputes ) , as modified by the decision of the Labour 
Appellate Tribunal as appeals against the award , which shall hereinafter be 
referred to , for the sake of brevity , as the Coal Award . In the Award of the 
Industrial Tribunal (Colliery Disputes ), os modifled by the decision of the Labour 
It is mentioned therein , that the reference included only one Colliery belonging to 
the State , that the notice of reference was advertised in one of the papers circulated 
in Rajasthan , that notices were also sent by registered post , that no appearance 
had been entered either on behalf of the management, or the owners, that no 
statement had been filed , and that, in these circumstances , the Tribunal directed 
the management to bring the wagę structure in line with the wage structure 
suggested by them for the rest of the country . 

8. It may be stated at the outset , that on behall of the Union a petition 
( I. A . No. 27 of 1958 ) was Aled for modification of the reterence on the ground , 
that it should have been " what should be the wage structure of the Coal Cutters 
(Piece rated ) of the Palana Colliery , Palana in implementation of Paragraph 699 
of the Award of the All India Industrial Tribunal (Colliery Disputes) mutatis 
mutandis as per modification made by the Labour Appellate Tribunal s decision 
on the said award ." This petition was however dismissed on the ground , that 
this Tribunal had no jurisdiction to modify or amend the reference as prayed for . 
The contention on behalf of the Union is , that the dispute really relates to the 
implementation of the All India Award regarding Colliery Disputes, and that 
there is no general question as to the wage structure of the workmen of the 
Palana Colliery , Palana , as noted in the order of reference . At the time of trial 
before me the parties were at dispute only in respect of three items, namely (1 ) 
wages payable to Coal Cutters (Piece rated ); ( ii ) wages payable for pushing tubs , 
and ( lil) payment of wages on Sunday . 

9 . In the petition , I. A . No, 27 of 1958 , it is alleged that the Coal Award 
had been accepted by the Government of Rajasthan , and that various agreements 
had been arrived at in respect of all categories of workmen , except in regard to 
the matters in dispute , referred to above . In the statement Aled on behalf of 
the management it is alleged as follows : 
" It is, therefore , submitted that this Tribunal has the jurisdiction not only 

to deal with the dispute as raised by the Union but with the wage 
structure as a whole . The award of the Tribunal, therefore , would 
bind both parties not only in regard to the wages of the coal cutters 
but in regard to all matters connected with the wage structure . Such 
matters in connection with the wage structure, on which there is no 
controversy, may be incorporated as part of the Award . On the 
other points on which the management has made its gubmission below , 

the dispute may be decided by the Honourable Tribunal." 
At page 4 of the statement ſt is stated as follows: 
" It was decided by the Government of Rajasthan that the Colllery Award 

was to be implemented . In accordance with this decision of the 
Government, the categorisation of the employees as laid down under 
the Award has been carried out. The workers have also botn avan 
total emoluments as laid down under the Award . This has been done 
In consultation and wherever possible under agreement with the Union , 
However , there are still a few other questions left unsettled because 
of the unreasonable demands of the Union . These questions are dealt 

with below ." 
At page in reply to the Union s statement it is alleged that paragraphs 
1 ( a ) , (b ) , ( c), (I ), (8 ), (h ) , (1) (j) , (k ), (1), (m ), and ( n ) . În the claims statement 
in paragraph 1 ( a ) it is alleged, that the Government of India was requested to 
appoint a Tribunal only to get the case of Coal Cutters wages settled therein . 
With reference to paragraph i ( d ) , it is alleged , that the Award of the All India 
Industrial Tribunal and the Labour Appellate Tribunal were accepted by the Gov 
ernment and that a partial settlement was arrived at with the Union on 11th April 
1957. The management admitted ( 1) that deductions for house - rent made under 
paragraph 529 of he Coal Award were refunded as per the Labour Appellate 
Tribunal Decision , ( ii) that equal wages to female workers (Piece rated , and time 
rated ) had been granted as per the Coal Award , (iii) that 7 festival holidays as 
provided under the said Award have been granted , (iv ) that Underground 
allowance, according to the decision , has been paid , ( v ) that concessions of supply 
of food grain have been dis - continued , and (vi) that the clerical and mining start 
had been fixed in grades as provided for by the said Award . In reply to paragraph 


2066 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 29, 1959 / BHADRA 7, 1881 


[PART II 


1 ( e ) of the Union statement, the management allege, that bills for arrears of 
wages under the decision of the Coal Award were under preparation for the period 
from 26th May 1956 , and that the calculations were made in accordance with the 
agreement arrived at between the management and the Union , The management 
were making payment according to the agreement from 1st January 1958. Para 
graph 1 ( 0 ) of the statement of the Union relates to payment of push tubs. Para 
graph 1 ( p ) relates to payment of piece rate wages to Coal Cutters , and paragraph 
1 (r ) to the alleged Illegal reduction in the wages of Coal Cutters by the manage 
ment. A Supplementary statement as filed by the management dated 8th August 
1958 in answer to the further statement that was Aled by the Union dated 14th 
July 1958 . 

10 . It is clear from the foregoing, that the dispute between the parties in this 
proceeding only relates to payment of wages to Coal Cutters and for pushing tubs, 
and ab ut payment of Sunday wages. These are the subject matter of the three 
issues that have been raised in the supplementary statement of the management. 
On behalf of the workmen reference has been made to certain documents in this 
connection . Ext. W / 6 dated 22nd September 1958 is a copy of a letter from the 
Mines Manager to the Secretary , Palana Colliery Mazdoor Union , informing him , 
that the Government of Rajasthan had accepted the Coal Award , and that 12 Coal 
Cutters , 4 in each shit, should be engaged to drive the gallery . Ext. W / 7 is a 
communication of the Government of India dated 4th March 1958 , in regard to 
the implementation of the Coal Award , Ext. W / 11 dated 3rd October 1956 has 
been filed to show the categorisation and Axation of wages of workmen of the 
Palana Colliery, commencing from 26th March 1956 , as fixed by the Mincs Manager. 
Ext, W / 21 dated 28th June 1957 has been produced as showing the categorisation 
and fixation of wages of the workmen of the Palana Colliery , Palana as per the 
list of permanent workmen . This categorisation was done by the Labour Inspector , 
Jodhpur, and was accepted by the management and the Union , Ext, W / 31 shows 
the mutual agreement of the final categorisation and Axation of wage structure 
of the workmen (Daily rated and piece rated loading workers ) , the rates of wages 
being applicable from 28th May 1956 . Ext. W / 32 relates to the agreement on 
the Anal categorisation and Axation of wages of workmen (Monthly rated ) of 
Palana Colliery , the rates being applicable from 26th May 1956 . Ext, W / 33 is 
the agreement on the final categorisation and fixation of wages of the workmen 
retrenched on different dates after the enforcement of the Award , the rates and 
wages being applicable from 26th May 1956 . The above agreements are all 
dated 10th January 1958 , and are signed by Mr. Fell, the Mincs Manager , Dr. 
Jawahar Lal, Patron of the Union , and Shri T . G . Moorjani, the Labour Inspector , 
Jodhpur, I may next refer to paragraph 4 of Ext. W / 22 dated 1st July 1957, which 
is a letter from the Regional Labour Commissioner . It is stated therein , that 
there remained only the issue relating to Coal Cutters , that, his suggestion was, 
that both the Mines manager and the Union representative should go and visit 
a few coal mines in Bengal and Bihar and ascertain there the average daily wage 
structure of Coal Cutters and then fix up work load and wage structure of Coal 
Cutters of Palana Colliery accordingly , that both parties had accepted his 
suggestion , and that the Mines Manager had sent a telegram to the Secretary , 
Government of Rajasthan for permission to visit the coal flelds in Bengal and 
Bihar . Ext . W / 30 . Is a copy of the said telegram , In Ext. W / 23 the Labour 
Inspector wrote that the Mines Manager had intimated to him , that no useful 
purpose would be served by his accompanying the Union representative to Bengal 
and Bihar , , and that the question of wage structure and work load of the Coal 
Cutters should be decided during discussions held with the Deputy Labour Chief 
Commissioner . It is recited in Ext. W / 23, that no agreement could be arrived at 
on the issue of work load of Coal Cutters between the management and the Union 
during the discussions held with the Deputy Labour Chiet Commissioner. Exi. W / 35 
is a letter of the Labour Inspector , Jodhpur to the Mines Manager dated 13th 
May 1959, drawing his attention to non -payment of difference of wages to daily 
rated , monthly rated , and the 62 retrenched workers, as per the rates in the Coal 
Award . The following sentence also occurs there : 
" The disputed matter relating to fixation of work load and wage structure 

of piece rated Coal Cutters has nothing to do with payment of 
arrears of wages to all other workers , whose categorisation has been 
done , and wages fixed in terms of the Coal Award , for which you 
have already signed an agreement with the Palana Colliory Mazdoor 
Union . The non -payment of arrears of these wages for nearly three 

years constitute serious breach of the Coal Award ." 
Ext. W / 42 dated 25th April 1958 contains a list of permanent workmen . From 
a perusal of the documents referred to above , it will thus be seen , that there has 
been agreement between the Union and the management in respect of most of 


Sec. 3(1 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 29 , 1959 / BHADRA 7, 1881 


2067 


the matters relating to wages structure in accordance with the terms of the Coal 
Award . The dispute is only in respect of the three items set out above, and 
referred to in the supplementary statement of the management. In fact in the 
re - joiner filed by the Union by way of reply to the supplementary statement Aled 
on behalf of the management, it is alleged in paragraph 2 (xV ) as follows : 
" The management have now finally admitted beforo the Honourablo Tribunal 

on the 8th instant, that the present dispute is confined to the fixation 
of wages of the Coal Cutters for their normal duties of cutting and 

loading coal." 
The workmen have filed their reply in respect of wages of Coal Cutters, push tub 
wages , and Sunday Wagcs . 

11. The wage structure as laid down in the Coal Award has been adopted as 
a matter of agreement between the Union and the management except in regard 
to the matters specified above. In fact both parties have not even lcd any evidence 
except in regard to the items in dispute , as set out in the issues. The evidence of 
Shri T . G . Moorjani, WW1, Labour Inspector , Jodhpur, Is , that they finallsed 
matters in respect of all Catcgories , except Coal Cutters. He suggested , that the 
dispute regarding Coal Cuttors should be resolved . He inspected the mines in 
1958 . The payments to all workmen , other than Coal Cutters, are as per the 
agreements , Ext. W / 31 , 32 , and 33 , with effect from 1st January 1958. These 
are applicable from 26th May 1956 , the date when the Coal Award came into 
force . Te Mines Manager told him , that he had asked the Government to keep 
the question of payment of arrears pending till the present dispute was decided . 
He has been sending reports about the non -implementation of the Coal Award 
by the Palana Colliery , and Ext. W / 36 is the file containing his reports . In cross 
examination it is made clear , that the suggestion , that he made regarding the 
wages of colllery workers in Bengal and Bihar, was to be confined to Coal Cuttors 
only , and that was the point of disputa of the agreement. 

12 . Therefore , the matters, that arise for determination in the present reference , 
are those that have been set out in the issues framed above . In tho first place . 
taking the question of wages payable to Coal Cutters , it is important to remember 
the directions contained in paragraph 698 and 699 of the Award of the Industrial 
Tribunal, that the management of the Palana Colliery should bring the wages 
structure in the Palana Colliery in line with the wage structure fixed for the rest 
of the country . This direction had not been modificd in any manner by the 
Labour Appellate Tribunal. In the statement dated 14th July 1958, Aled on behalt 
of the worlmen , certain formulae have been set out in the matter of fixation of 
wage structure. The formulae are not in accordance with the directions given 
in the Coal Award , and cannot be accepted . 

13. The Coal Cutters arc in Category V , and the total emoluments of all the 
çategires of workers upto category X are set out at page 140 of the Award of the 
Industrial Tribunal and page 31 of that the Labour Appellate Tribunal. The 
Labour Appellate Tribunal has dealt with the Pick Miners at page 42 of the 
Award . For category V workmen the Labour Appcllale Tribunal increased the 
basic wage from 1/ 3 - to Rs. 115l ., The total emoluments of a Pick Miner were 
fixed at Rs. 3 ) 104 per day , without including other earnings by way of lead and 
lift etc . In paragraph 104 of the Award it is mentioned as follows: 
" In the result , the pick miner in Bengal and Bihar, both in the gallery 

face and in the depillaring area , shall be entitled to the wages and 
total emoluments as for Category V . He will be paid Rs. 31018 for 
cutting and loading a tub of 36 cft, and he will be paid at the same 
rate for cvery additional tub of the same capacity and proportion 

ately for part of a tub ." 
In fact the management have accpted the principle, that they are bound to pay 
the wages as fixed by the Coal Award . MW1, Shri Mukerjec, who was the farmer 
Mines Manager , has deposed , that so far as the total emoluments are concerned , 
the management are bound by the Award , but that the work load must be fixed 
for piece rated workmen , the lignite cutters. 

14 . It will be seen , that the amount of Rs. 31018 , decided to be paid to a Pick 
Miner is for cutting and loading a tub of 36 cft. He is to be paid at the same 
rate for an additional tub of the same capacity , and proportionately for a part 
of the tub . What is important to note is, that the said wage of Rs. 308 is linked 
to the work - load of cutting and loading a tub of 36 cft. The above mentioned 
piece rate wage was liable to decrease or increase according to the quantity cut 
and loaded . In other words, the wage fixed by the Coal Award for pick Miners 
is linked to the work - load the said work - being a tub of 36 cft , 


- 2068 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 29, 1959 /BHADRA 7, 1881 


(PART II 


15 . The Coa ] Cutters of Palana Colliery are in the same category as the Pick 
Miners of Bengal and Bihar , and they must be included in Category V , as deter 
mined under the Coal Award . They are also entitled to recover the same 
emoluments as determined under the said Award . They are piece rated workers, 
and their total emoluments shall be Rs. 3 | 10 | 4 , as determined by the Labour 
Appellate Tribunal. This will At them into the wage structure as decided in the 
Coal Award . 

16 . The contention however on behalf of the management is , that the emolu . 
ments of the piece rated workers in Palana Collicry cannot be irrespective of 
work - load , and that the wages fixed in the Coal Award must be linked to work 
load . There can be no dispute , that, on principle , the said earnings should be 
linked to work load , when the Coal Cutters like the Pick Miners are piece rated 
workers. In fact in the Award of the Labour Appellate Tribunal in paragraph 
104 , set out above, the wages of Rs. 31018 have been linked to the work load of 
cutting and loading a tub of 36 cft . The Union cannot go bchind the above 
direction in the Coal Award , and the wages of the piccc rated Coal Cutters in 
the Palana Colllery also must be linked to the minimum wurk load . 

17 . The point for determination , therefore , is about the work load, which 
ought to be fixed for the piece rated Coal Cutters. There is no doubt, that the 
wages of Rs. 31018 , fixed in the Labour Appellate Tribunal s Award , are for a 
shift of 8 hours. The contention on behalf of the workmien is , that the same 
basis , as was adopted in the case of Plck Mincrs of Bengal and Bihar, must also 
be adopted in the case of workers of Palana Collicry also , and that the wages of 
Rs. 31018 must be linked to the work load of cutting and loading a tub of 30 cft. 
It however appears from the evidence, that in the Palana Collicry the tub , that 
is being used for cutting and loading coal, is of 20 cft. The contention on behalf 
of the present workmen is, that in no casc the work load should be more than 
1 20 / 38 cit., according to a tub of 20 cft, and that the piece rated Coal Cutters are 
entitled to wages of Rs. 3 |018 for cutting and loading one tub of 20 cft., plus a 
tub containing 20136 cft. In other words, it is argued , that it must be in the 
same proportion as fixed in paragraph 104 above of the Labour Appellate Tri 
bunal s Award , keeping in mind thc difference of the cubical contents of the tub 
in Bengal and Bihar on the onehand, and the Palana Collicry on the other . The 
management however do not accept this contention . According to them , in the 
casc of piece rated Cool Cutters the total emoluments can be assured only by 
keeping the work - load, as it was before the Award came into force . It is urged 
before me that from the records maintained by the management it will be seen , 
that the Coal Cutters had been doing 9 tubs of 20 cft. a day during a shift of i 
hours. This was inclusive of tramming the empty tubs from the shaft bottom to 
its working place , and the loaded tub back to the shaft bottom . However in the 
Coal Award it is directed , that it is not the job of Coal Cutters to do the tramm 
ing also . The management have accordingly engaged separate Trammers . The 
Coal Cutters are no longer doing the tramming job . The management have about 
10 Trammers and 20 Miners per shift. It is, therefore, urged , that the Coal Cut 
ters are no longer doing tramming work , that they can do it times as much work 
as they were doing previously , and that this could work out to a work load of 
of 131 tubs per day. However , in order to adjust the work load to the capacity 
of the average Miner, the lowest work load should be 9 tubş. Thus the conten 
tion on behalt of the management is , that the work load of the Coal Cutters 
should be 9 tubs of 20 cft., and that the tub rate should be Rs. 1 / 6 / 


18 . Thus the parties are at dispute as to the fixation of the work load . Om 
behalf of the management, we have the evidence of Shri A . V . Mukerjee , who 
was the Mines Manager from 21st October , 1944 to 15th December , 1957. Accord 
ing to his evidence, the Miners were doing the lignite cutting, loading the cut 
lignite into tubs, taking empty tubs from the shaft level to the working face , and 
bringing the loaded tub to the shaft level. They were generally doing tubs of 
20 cft. each , but at times they could do and actually did as many as 9 tubs. Th . 
Miners at Palana had been always doing 6 tubs per hcad per shift of 8 hours 
and also tramming . Because they do not do the tramming work now , they must 
give y tubs, i. e . 50 per cent of 6 tubs plus the original 6 tubs, in all g tubs. His 
further evidence is that output was restricted in his time to only 2 , 500 tons per 
month because he was the holder of a Il class certificate of competency . With a 
view to restrict the output, he had either to retrench some of the Coal Cutters, 
and allow the rest to raise the full complement of tubs, or he had to restrict a 
part of output , so that he did not exceed 2 ,500 tons. Ite preferred not to retrench 
but to restrict the output. Therefore during the beginning of the month oỉ tho 
Miners were allowed to raise the full complement of 6 tubs per shift , but towards 


SEC. Stil)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; AUGUST 29, 1959/ BHADRA 7. 1881 2069 

= 
the end of the month the output was restricted , so that the total output was not 
more than 2 , 500 tons per month . He proves Exts . M 3 , 4 , and 5 , the Muster Rolls , 
showing the amount of lignite mined and it ranges from 6 to 5 tubs per head per 
day . He makes it clear, in cross examination , that normally the output is 6 tubs 
of 20 cft., and occasionally it was 9 tubs. His further evidence is, that 9 tubs 
must be the work , load , and that the wages may be fixed as in the Award . He 
has been obliged to admit in cross -examination , that during a Jay - off period he 
paid lay - off compensation on the basis of work load of 5 tubs. His further evid 
ence is that he paid Sunday wages to Coal Cutters on the basis of a minimum 
of 4 tubs, but this included tramming also . He denies the suggestion in cross 
examination , that some Coal Cutters remained absent because the work - load of 
6 tubs per head per shift was heavy , and that they could not give 6 tubs per chift . 
His further evidence is that Pick mining is going on in the Palana Colliery except 
when there are falls . The method of mining is purcly pick mining. Thus the 
evidence adduced on behalf of the management, is that, the work - load must be 
fixed at about 9 tubs of 20 cft. 


19 . On behalf of the Union we have the evidence of Shri Arjun Ram , who is 
the President of the Palana Colliery Mazdoor Union . According to him , he was a 
Coal Cutter in the Palana Colliery for nearly 8 years , and he started working as 
such from 1948 . He was for 6 months Head Chargc man from 26th February , 
1956 to 18th August, 1956 Shri Arjun Ram says, that Coal Cutter has to cut the 
coal and fill it in tubs. He has no duty of tramming , and that duty is done by 
Haulers . If the work was done on coal faces , the output was ? to 21 tubs of 
20 eft. each . If the work of dressing was done , then the out put was from 3 to 4 
tubs. When the depillaring operations were taken , falls took place , and then the out 
put became 5 or 6 tubs. In those days the duty of Coal Cutters was only to load 
the tubs with loose coal. In those days at the end of 1951 they could bring 6 tubs 
per Coal Cutter , but this was due to depilluring operations and falls . At that 
time a Coal Cutter s duty was only to load , and not to cut the coal. It is not 
possible to give the same out put, now , because formerly the Coal Cutters were 
taking coal from falls. Now the Chief Inspector of Mines has prohibited the 
operation of pillar extractions, as also double splits in the pillars. Because of this 
they have to work in the coal face only . Due to heat and lack of ventilation a 
Coal Cutter cannot work and load more than 23 tubs at present. He visited a 
colliery situated near Jharia on 28th September , 1958 . He went inside, and also 
did pick mining . Palana Collicry was more dangerous to work in , than Bengal 
and Bihar Colleries . In cross - examination he says, that during the times of pillar 
cutting and occurrences of falls 6 tubs of 20 cft . were given . But otherwise the 
Coal Cutters were able to give about 2 or 3 tubs. Shri Arjun Ram admits, that, 
as Shri Mukerjee was only a Second Class Mines Manager , the out- put was res 
tricted to 2 , 500 tons. He however adds, that, even if this restriction was not 
there, it was possible to get more tubs only if there was coal cutting or if falls 
wero there . He is definite that it is not possible to give more than 2 or 3 tubs, 
when working on a coal face. 


20 . It will thus be seen , that whereas the contention of the management is , 
that the work - load must be fixed at 9 tubs of 20 cft., the answer on behalf of the 
Union is , that it cannot be more than 3 tubs of 20 cft , in any case . Support 18 
sought for the contention on behalf of the management on the ground , that the 
conditions of working in coal mines in Bengal and Bihar are more difficult and 
strcnuous that in the Palana Colliery . Because , whereas coal is mined in Bengal 
and Bihar , lignite is mined in Palana Colliery . According to the evidence of 
Shri Mukerjce in the matter of mining , lignite is of a soft natuie, and is casily 
cut, and it disintegrates while exposed to atmosphere. Lignite 15 the stage after 
peat . The density is much lower than that of bituminous coal . The latter is very 
difficult to mine, very hard to cut, and is not easily disintegrated . Extensive 
blasting by explosive is necessary to mine coal, and it is also heavier. It is 
argued on behalf of the management, that conditions in the Paiana Colliery are 
far easier that in the coal mincs of Bengal and Bihar , that this fact must be borne 
in mind in fixing the wage structure of the Coal Cutters , that it cannot be on the 
same basis as that laid down in the Coal Award , and that duc allowance must be 
made for the fact, that lignite is mined in Palana . It is accordingly urged that 
the work - load of the piece rated Coal Cutters at Palana must be Axed as con 
tended by them . I have referred to the evidence of Shri Arjun Ram , that, as 
compared to the cullleries of Bengal and Bihar , working at Palana is more dan 
gerous. In this connection , attention is drawn to Ext, W58 , which is the copy of 
a letter dated 9th February , 1957 from the Chief Inspector of Mines in India , to 
the Government of India . It is mentioned therein , that, though the coal at 
Palana Collicry is soft , the conditions are rather arduous , and extraction of coa ! 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 29 , 1959 / BHADRA 7, 1881 


[ Part II 


2070 


is difficult, and that the management were not justified in reducing the wages of 
the workers . In my opinion , the fact, the lignite is mined in the Palana Colliery , 
is no reason for according to the contention of the management, that easier condi 
tions prevail in the said Colliery , and that the work - load must be fixed at 9 tubs 
of 20 cft. As pointed out on behalf of the workman , in the past, some times the 
workmen were able to give increased number of tubs because of falls and also 
depillaring and double splits which have now been prohibited . Ext. W | 39 is a 
copy of the letter from the Mines Manager to the Secretary of the Union , that the 
question of pillar extraction had been taken up with the Chief Inspector of Mines , 
that the conditions then were more favourable than before the commencement of 
" Splitting " . If the Chief Inspector of Mines agrced to depillaring , there was no 
reason why increased out- put could not be given with the same number of Coal 
Cutters . Ext.W38A is a copy of the letter dated 6th May 1958, from the Chief 
Inspector of Mines to the Mines Manager , and it is stated therein , that the lignite 
and overburden are of a soft nature , and as such difficult to support , and the 
permission for driving 2 splits to each pillar, could not bc granted . In Ext. W38 
the Mines Manager stated , that, in view of the fact , that double splitting was not 
permitted , the present working would be exhausted by the end of June 1958 , if 
not earlier. When it is thus clear, that permission for driving two splits to each 
pillar was refused , the management s insistence on work load us contended by 
them , cannot be accepted , 


21. At the same time, I am unable to attach any weight to the contention on 
behalf af the Union , that the work load cannot bc fixed at more than 2 or 21 or 
3 tubs of 20 cft, as spoken to by Shri Arjun Ram , and that it is not possible to 
give more than 2 or 3 tubs, when working on coal face . Ext. M | 1 is the copy of 
a statement filed before the All India Industrial Tribunal (Colliery Disputes ) by 
the Union , and it is dated 5th May 1954 . A copy of this was endorsed to the 
Manager , Palana Colliery . In paragraph 5 the allegation is, that the average out 
put of a Coal Cutter was about 6 tubs a day , which brought him Rs. 28 per day , 
but, on failure of electricity , his progress came down to 1 or 2 tubs or nothing 
at all, though he spent the whole day on duty . Ext.M2 is a letter, that was sent 
on behalf of the Union to the Mines Manager in 1954 . Attention is drawn to the 
recital therein , that a Coal Cutter was capable of raising 6 tubs per day, but that his 
out-put was restricted to 4 - 5 . When his attention is drawn to Ext.M2, Shri 
Arjun Ram Admits , that it is written by him in his own hand , and that it is 
signed by him . He also admits Ext. M / 1. The explanation is however given , 
that the output, as given in these documents , cannot be given now , because they 
were taking coal formerly from falls . Now however such pillar extraction and 
double splits in the pillars has been prohibited . Because of this , working can 
be only in the coal faces. 

22, On behalf of the management, the Muster Rolls have been relied upon to 
prove , that the out put that was being given , was much more than 2 or 3 tubs. 
Shri Mukerjee has spoken to the Muster Rolls. Ext. M / 3 , 4 and 5 . The contention 
on behalf of the Union with reference to the Muster Rolls is , that the out- put 
therein mentioned related to falls and not to face cutting . When his attention is 
drawn to Ext . M / 3C , wherein the out- put is shown as 6 , 7 , or 8 tube, the answer 
of Shri Arjun Ram is, that he does not agree with the figures and they are not 
correct. In the re - joinder filed on behalf of the Union to the written statement 
of the management, at page 9 , there is refcrence to the records maintained by the 
management in relation to out -put of Coal Cutters in the past . It is alleged on 
behalf of the Union , " that the management had prepared forged records of the 
out put to cheat the Government by showing more out-put than actual, and there 
by drawing payment of muster rolls in excess for years together and actual dis 
bursed by them to the labour." It is further allcged by the Union , that they had 
many proofs in their possession oral and documentary to prove the charges , and 
that the facts of committing forgery and deception by the management has also 
been brought to the notice of the Chairman , Estimates Committee of the Vidhan 
Sabha. The contention on behalf of the Union , that the records relied upon by 
the management, particularly the muster rolls and other statements showing the 
out- put are forged and that they should not be taken into account, is not tenable . 
In my opinion , the allegations made above are without foundation and border on 
recklessness . The alleged evidence in proof of this is not forthcoming. I see no 
sufficient grounds for dis believing the truth and genuineness of the muster rolls , 
and Appendix I attached to the management s written statement The books have 
been kept in regular course of business. The allegation that the muster rolls con 
tain forged entries made with a view to cheat Government to enable drawing of 
larger amounts in excess of the actual amount spent, is beneath criticism , There 
is no satisfactory evidence on behalf of the Union , in support of this contention , 
and the merc assertion of Shri Arjun Ram , that cntries in the muster rolls are not 


SFC 9 (* )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 29 , 1959 / BHADRA 7, 1881 


2071 


correct, does not afford proof of the same. The truth and genuineness of these 
documents receives support from the documents of the Union , Exts. M / 1 and 2 , 
which are admittedly signed by Shri Arjun Ram . I am satisfied , that the muster 
rolls and the other documents relied upon on behalf of the management are quite 
genuine, and kept in regular course of business and the objection levelled against 
them on behalf of the Union is of no force. 

23 . Granting , that in the muster rolls , there is evidence of the fact, that in the 
past the out-put amounted to about 6 tubs, even as mentioned in Exts. M / 1 and 2 , 
it is quite likely that this quantity was given when there was no prohibition against 
depillaring , and also when double splits in pillars was not prohibited . It may 
also be, that such out- put was given on account of falls and on account of loading 
of only loose lignite . In this connection I may draw attention to Appendix I, 
attached to the supplementary statement on behalf of the management, which 
shows the average per capita , out-put of a Pick Miner in Palana Colliery in 1953 , 
1954, and 1955 . Tho average per capita out- put is 4 . 91 . I see no sufficient grounds 
for dis -believing the truth and genuineness of the figures on the basis of which 
this statement has been prepared . In this connection attention should also be 
drawn to certain documents Aled on behalf of the Union . Ext. W /24 dated 12th 
November 1957 is a letter of the Union , signed by Shri Arjun Ram . It is stated 
therein that, in spite of their request to increase the number of Trammers per 
shift, to enable the Coal Cutters to cut and load 4 tubs each per shift , the 
Manager had paid no heed to this important matter, and that this had 
resulted in loss of wages to Coal Cutters . In another letter , Ext. W / 44 
dated 14th March 1958 , it is stated that it was only by applying a very high 
degree of abnormal labour, that the Coal Cutters were able to cut and load 3 
or 4 tubs per worker per shift, and that in the event of applying normal labour 
the out-out would have gone down, to a tub or a half during that critical period . 

24 . The contention on behalf of the management is, that, even though the 
Miners were capable of giving 5 or 6 tubs, they deliberately adopted go slow 
tactics. Ext. M / 11- 27 relate to the correspondence in this connection . There 
does not seem to be any doubt, that after thc dispute started with the manage 
ment, the workmen deliberately adopted go slow methods and slowed down the 
out -put, and brought it down to 2 or 3 tubs per shift per day , as mentioned in 
the several letters . 

25 . The evidence on either side considered as a whole , leads to the conclusion , 
that the contention on behalf of the workmen that the out- put cannot be Axed 
at anything more than 2 or 3 tubs of 20 ft. per Coal Cutter per shift cannot be 
accepted and it is against the plain Inference yielded by Ex , W / 24 . Neither am I 
prepared to accept the contention on behalf of the management, that it must be 
at least 6 or 5 tubs of 20 cft . As already indicated , this out-put may have been 
possible when coal was loaded from falls, or when double splits were allowed 
through pillars . In Appendix I of the supplementary statement of the manage 
ment the normal average out - put for a period of 3 years was shown to be 4 . 90 . 
Attention may be drawn to the Standing Orders , Ext. W / 9 . Schedule A therein 
contains a note , that at lcast 5 days attendance per week for every labourer , and 
at least 20 tubs were to be brought by cach Miner to entitlę him to the issue of 
food grain at concession rate , and that this was to reduce absenteeism and to keep 
up the per capita out-put. Stress is laid on behalf of the Union to show , that 
the out- put was taken to be 4 tubs per head per day . I have already drawn 
attention to Ext. W / 24 dated 12th November 1957 , wherein the Mines Manager 
was requested to increase the number of trammers to enable the Coal Cutters to 
cut and load 4 tubs each per shift . It was further suggested at page 2 that the 
out- put had been decreased from 300 tubs to 160 tubs. Even on the documents 
produced on behalf of the workmen it is perfectly clear , that the normal average 
out - put has never been less than 4 tubs per shift per Coal Cutter, even confining 
such cutting of coal to cutting from a coal face. In paragraph 583 of the original 
Award it is observed , that it was very difficult to determine what would be the 
out - put under ideal conditions. It depended upon the gradient of the minc, the 
thickness of the roof , the nearness of the workings to the pit mouth the depth of 
the seam , ventilation conditions, mechanisation , etc. The following sentence 
occurs therein : 

" We can , therefore , talk only in terms of averages keeping these factors in 
view ." 

In paragfaph 764 it is observed as follows: 

" Because of this , the work loads fixed by us are more or less , averages of what 
they have been turning out and not based on any time or motion studies, which 
alone would cnable us to assess scientifically how much a worker should produce . 


2072 THE GAZETTE, OF INDIA : 4L GUST 29 , 1959, BHADRA 7, 1881 [PARE IT 
= = 
This is different from how much he has been produring which has been taken 
as the basis to fix the work loads that we have laid down for them ." Considering 
the average out-put, that the workmen had bcen giving in the past , it is lcgiti 
mate to hold , that it has been not less than 4 tubs of 20 cft , per shift. This is 
however not to say, that the work - load should be fixed at 4 lubs only because 
this work - load was being given at a time when the workmen were also obliged 
to do tramming work . I see no sufficient grounds for dis -believing the evidence 
on behalf of the management in this connection , and it establishes that the work 
men were also doing tramming in thc past . Now under the Coal Award , the 
Coal Cutters are relieved from the obligation of tramming, and separate wages 
are being paid for the same. In view of the fact, that they have been relieved 
of the work of tramming of tubs, it is legitimate to add a little more to the work 
load of 4 tubs of 20 cft, which were being given ay out put, when the Coal Cutters 
were also obliged to do tramming . It is fair and reasonable to hold , that the out 
put should be fixed at 4 } tubs of 20 cft , per shift per Coal Cutler , 

26 Morcover I may draw attention in this conneciion to the observations of 
the Labour Appellate Tribunal in paragraph 104 , that the emoluments of 
Rs. 31018 were Axed as the wages of a Pick Miner , both in gallery face and in the 
depillaring area , subject to a work load of 1 lub of 36 cft . I find , that in the 
Palana Colliery the wages for a piece rated Coal Cutter should be Rs. 3018 for 
cutting and loading 4 ;} tubs ( lour and a half tubs) of lignite by a tub of 20 cft . 
per hcad per shift, and this shall be the rate and work load both in the gallery 
face , and 117 the depillaring area ; and he will be paid at the same rate , and on 
the same basis , for every additional lub of the samc capacity , and proportionately 
for a purt of a tub . I further find , that the total emoluments of a piece rated 
Coal Cutter , giving the above work - load , shall be Rs. 3 | 10 | 4 as awarded to work 
men included in Category V as mentioned in paragraph 69, pagc 31 , of the Award 
of the Labour Appellate Tribunal and on the conditions fixed by the Labour 
Appellate Tribunal, 
Issues No. 3 & 4 . 

27. It is alleged in the statement dated 14th July 1958 Aled on behalf of tho 
Union , that the management had agreed to make payment of push tub wages to 
Coal Cutter s in terms of paragraph 604 of the Award as long as they had per 
fornicd this duty , and that an amount of Rs. 47, 359 .98 , on account of push tub 
wage is due to the workers , and that payment of pro rata push tuh wages as raised 
by the management had been ruled out by the Tripartite Committee, set up by 
the Government of India . It is further alleged , that the payment of push tub 
wages duc to the Coal Cutters of Palana relates to a period prior to 1st March 
1958 , and that no reduction can be made by the management out of the same. 
The contention on behalf of the management is , that tho decision of the Tripartite 
Committee is , that the rate for pushing tubs should be calculated on pro rata 
basis . So far as payment of wages for pushing tubs is concerned , the following 
is the direction in the judgment of the Labour Appellate Tribunal: 

" There is a demand, that where the Mincrs are required to push tubs, whether 
empty or full, the Miners should be paid cxtra where the distance exceeds 100 
fcct at the rate of - / 1 / - for every 100 feet. Mi. Ginwalla has opposed thc same. 
We agree, that it is not the duty of the Miners to push the tubs. It is the Tram 
mer s job . If there is any distance limit for the Trammers in any of the collieries , 
and if Miners are asked to push tubs, it is only reasonable that they should be 
paid a consolidated payment of - 11 - for cvery 100 feet, or part thereof in excess 
of the first 100 fcet." The contention on behalf of the management is , that, 
according to the above decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal, the rate for 
pushing tubs must be calulated only on pro rata basis , that the rate , as fixed 
by thc Labour Appellato Tribimal, is for a standard tub of 36 cft that for tubs of 
smallcr size the rate should be proportionately less , and, therefore , the payment 
for pushing tubs can only be made on pro rata basis , i. e ., 20 : 36 of one anna. The 
contention on behalf of the management receives support from the decision of 
the Labour Appcllate Tribunal referred to above, which shows, that the rate of 
- 1 ) - was fixed for a standard tub of 36 cft. Even in the decision of the Tripartito 
Committce, on which relaince has been placed by the Union , Ext, W / 7 , paragraph 
7 , item No. 6 ( a ) is relevant. The following observations occur: - - 

" It was agreed that the rate for pushing empty tubs would be calculated on 
pro rata basis , i.e ., for a standard tub of 36 cft. it would be calculated at the rate 
of - 11 - (one anna ) and for tubs of smaller size proportionately less and for the 
tubs bigger size, proportionately more ." 

It was also decided that this method of payment would come into effect from 
the 1st March , 1958 , and that past cases of under payment or over payment would 
not be re - opened , 


SEC )( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 29 , 1959/ BHADRA 7, 1881 


2073 


In view of the decision by the Tripartite Committec , it is not possible to accept 
the contention on behalf of the Union , that payment for pushing tubs, whether 
empty or loaded , should not be less than - 1 - even when the tub is of 20 cft, as 
in the Palana Colliery . It can be paid only on a pro rata basis , i. e ., taking into 
account the smaller size of the tub . It is argued for the management, that for a 
tub of 20 cft , thc rate works out to 3 1 / 3 N . P . in the proportion of 20 : 36 of - / 1 / 
On a consideration of all circumstances, I fix the rate at 4 N . P . (Naya Paise ) per 
tub of 20 cft. I find on this issue , that, where Miners , are engaged and made to 
push tubs, they shall be paid at the rate of 4 N . P . per tub of 20 cft, for every 100 
feet , or part thcreof , in excess of the first 100 feet. 
Issue No. 4. 

28 . The question next is about the date , from which the rate of wages as fixed for 
pushing tubs and for Coal Cutters should be effective. First taking the question 
of push tub wages , the Union has claimed a large amount by way of arrears from 
26th May 1956 , the date on which thc Coal Award came into force. The manage 
ment contend , that, in accordance with the decision of the Tripartite Committee , 
the new rate should come into force only from 1st March 1958 . In Ext, W / 37, 
which is a letter written by the Union , it is alleged , that the total amount, as per 
the Union records for the period , September 1956 to August 1957 came to 
Rs. 47, 359 / 98 and that Government sanction for this additional expenditure should 
be obtained . Taking all circumstances into consideration , it seems to me to be 
reasonable , that the rate should be effective from 26th May 1956 , the date when 
the Coal Award became enforceable , I find accordingly and further hold that in 
case over payment has been made in this behalf at a rate over and above 4 N , P . 
after 26th May 1956 , it shall not be re - opened . If any under payment has been 
made, the workmen will be entitled to recover the difference. 

29. The question next is with reference to the date from which the rate of 
wages and the work load , as fixed for the Coal Cutters, should be cffective. I am 
of opinion , that the same date of 26th May 1956 should be taken into account. 
Even in the written statement of the management it is alleged in paragraph 5 , that 
bills for arrears of wages, under the decision of the Coal Award , as modifled by 
the Labour Appellate Tribunal decision , were under preparation for the period 
from 26th May 1956 to 31st December 1957. It is clear, that the management were 
bound to implement the Award , as directed in paragraph 699 of thc Award , I 
find , that the rate of wages fixed for the Coal Cutters shall be effective from 26th 
May 1956, that the payment of such rate shall be conditional upon a Coal cutter 
having raised and loaded and given not less than 4 . tubs of 20 cft. per shift of 
8 hours. In case over payment had been made to the Coal Cutters after 26th May 
1956 , it shall not be re -opened . If any under payment has been made, thc work 
men will be entitled to recover the difference , 


Issue No. 5 . 

30 . The question next is with reference to payment of wages on a Sunday . It 
is allcged by the management, that it is not the general practice in the industry 
to pay Sunday wages to any colliery workers, piece rated , or time rated . The 
contention is, that the Coal Award has fixed a uniform pattern of wages for all 
collieries, that the intention of the Award is , that all previous directions in the 
matter of wage structure ought to be discontinued , that it is not proper , that 
sunday wages should be awarded in additional to the wages as fixed by the Coal 
Award , and that this is opposed to the Award , the object of which is to bring 
About standardisation in the wage structure throughout the country . It is also 
urged, that if Sunday wages ought to be given , then the total amount as pres 
cribed by the Award be divided by 30 instead of 26 in order to give the daily 
wage. This is strongly opposed on behalf of the Union , and it is contended , that 
it is against the Stand ng Orders. There is a provision in the Standing Orders 
for payment of wages on Sunday . The contention on brhalf of the Union is , that , 
in view of this provision in the Standing orders , the management s plea should 
not be allowed . The second contention is , that an appeal is pending before the 
Appellate Authority under the Industrial Employment Standing Orders Act, 1956 , 
over the question of modification of the Standing Orders at present in force in 
Palana Colliery , and that this question of Sunday wages cannot be considered at 
present in this proceeding . The third objection raised is , that this question of 
Sunday wages is not exprescly referred to in the terms of reference . It seem to 
me that the legal objections, taken on behalf of the Union , must be sustained . 
When there is an attempt to revise the Standing Orders, and when an appeal js 
pending in this connect .on before the concerned authority , and when there is also 
no express term of reference about the gụestion of payment of wages on Sunday , 
it seems to me, that this is a matter, which cannot be decided in this proceeding . 


2074 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 29, 1959 /BHADRA 7, 1881 


(PART II 


I find accordingly , and this question of payment of wages on Sunday is left open 
for future determination . 
Issue No. 6 . 
31. In the result an award is passed as follows: 
6 ) As both parties have stated before me, and proceeded to trial in this 

dispute on the footing, that there is no difference between them , in 
The Palana Colliery , in regard to the wage structure , as fixed by 
the All India Industrial Tribunal (Colliery Disputes ) Award , as modi 
fled by the Labour Appellate Tribunal except in regard to the mat 
ters , which form the subject matter of the issues raised in this pro 
ceeding, such wage structure shall be the wage structure governing 

the workmen of the Palana Colliery . 
( ii) In respect of the disputed matters, the directions are the following : 
( a ) With reference to Piece Rated Coal Cutters, the management shall 

pay wages as fixed in paragraph 26 subject to the giving of the 

out-put as stated therein . 
( b ) So far as wages for pushing tubs are concerned such wages shall be 

as found in paragraph 27 . 
( c ) The payment of wages , as fixed above, both for doing the work of 

Coal Cutters , and for doing the work of pushing tubs, shall have 
effect from 26th May 1956 , the date on which the Coal Award came 
into force , subject to this condition , that any over payment in both 
cases made by the management after 26th May 1956 , shall not be 
re - opened . If however, any under - payment is made, the workmen 

will be entitled to recover the difference . 
( d ) The question of payment of wages on Sunday is left open as desired 

by the Union as the said question is pending before the Appellate 

Authority under the Industrial Employment Standing Orders Act . 
( lii) There will be no order as to costs . 
( Twenty Nine pages ) 

E . KRISHNA MURTI, 
27th July , 1959 . 

Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal, Delhi. 

[LRIT- 35 -5 ( 10 ) / 87.] 
New Delhi, the 19th August 1959 
S . O . 1880 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award 
of the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay , in the Industrial dispute between the 
employers in relation to the Laxmi Bank Limited , Akola and their workmen . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT 

BOMBAY 


REF. (CGIT ) No. 12 OF 1959 
In the matter of the Laxmi Bank Limited , Akola . 

AND 
their workmen . 

PRESENT: 
Shri F . Jeejeebhoy, Judge. 


APPEARANCES : 


For the Bank - Shri B . S . Agarwal, Secretary , Laxmi Bank , 
For the Madhya Pradesh Bank Employees Association - Shri K . K . Mundul, 

Vice President, All India - Bank Employees Association with Shri C . M . 

Kapoor, General Secretary , M .P ., B . E .A . 
for the Laxmi Bank Employees Association - Shri G . G . Dixit, Secretary , 

the Laxmi Bank Employees Association . 


Acc 8 (fi)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 29 , 1959 / BHADRA 7, 1881 


2075 


AWARD 


The Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment by its 
Order , dated 27th April 1959 has referred to this Tribuna ), the following indus 
trial disputes between the Laxmi Bank Limited , Head Office , Akola , and their 
workmen , for adjudication : -- 
" 1 . Whether the cashiers given power of attorney or similar powers under 

the Resolution of the Board of Directors by the Laxmi Bank Limit 
ed , Akola , arc performing duties of more important nature and 
undertaking heavier responsibilities than those performed or under 
taken by the cashiers of this Bank with no such powers ? 


2 . If so , should the cashiers holding powers under the power of attorney 

or similar powers under a Resolution of the Board of Directors , be 
paid an allowance for such duties and responsibilities at a rate 
higher than the special allowance paid to cashiers without such 
powers ? If so , what should be the rate payable to them and from 
what date ? " 


The parties have now come to terms. A joint memorandum of settlement 
has been presented to me stating the terms of settlement. It is signed by the 
representative of the Bank and by the representatives of the workmen , I accept 
the settlement and make an award in terms of the settlement. A copy of the 
memorandum of settlement shall form part of this award . 

( Sd.) F . JEEJEEBHOY , 

Presiding Officer, 

Industrial Tribunal, Bombay . 
BOMBAY ; 
The 30th July , 1959 . 


BEFORE SHRI F . JEEJEEBHOY, CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 

TRIBUNAL , BOMBAY 
In the matter of the Laxmi Bank Ltd ., Akola . 

AND 

their workmen . 
REFERENCE No. (CGIT ) 18 OF 1958 

MEMORANDUM OF SETTLEMENT 
BOTH PARTIES AGREE THAT : 

1. Cashiers holding powers and power of Attorney or under a resolution 
of the Board of Directors shall be entitled to receive a special allowance in lieu 
of what is being paid to them at present at the rates prescribed hereunder with 
retrospective effect from 1st April, 1954 or from the date of yesting of such 
power , where such vesting is subsequent to 1st April , 1954; — 


( a ) in offices where there are four clerks and below .. Rs. 20 per month . 

(b ) In offices where there are five clerks and above... Rs. 22 per month . 
2 . Those who have not exercised the above powers continuously for the 
entire period since 1st April 1954 , shall be paid for such period or periods during 
which they have exercised such powers, provided that breaks on account of leave 
will not affect the continuity . 


3 . Those who have ceased to be in the employ of the Bank will be entitled 
to receive the arrears under clause 1 above, on an application made to the Bank 
by them or their successors in interest before the end of January 1960 . 


4 . The amount of arrears till 31st July 1959 shall be disbursed in two equal 
instalments , the first instalment to be paid in September 1959 and the second 
such instalment being payable in the month of January 1960 . 


2076 


THE GA / ETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 29 , 1959 / BHADRA 7, 1881 


Part II 


5 . The travelling and halting expenses of two representatives of the work 
mcn — Shri C . M . Kapoor and Shri G . G . Dixit shall be paid at the rate of 
Second Class Train fares and Rs. 8 (Rupees eight ) per diem . 
Representing the Laxmi 

Representing the workmen , 
Bank Ltd ., Akola , 
B . S . AGARWAL , 

(1) K . K . MUNDUL , 
Secretary , 

Vice President, 
The Laxmi Bank Ltd ., 

A . I. B . E . A . 
30 - 7 - 1959 . 

(2) C. M . KAPOOR , 
General Secretary , 

M . Þ . B . E . A . 
( 3 ) G . G . DIXIT , 

Secretary , 
The Laxmi Bank Employees 

Association . 
True Copy . 

[No. LRII/ 10 ( 31 ) / 59. ] 


S . O . 1881. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award 
of the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay , in the industrial dispute between the 
employers in relation to the Bank of Mysore Limited , Bombay and their work 
men , 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT 

BOMBAY 
REFERENCE No. ( CGIT ) 18 OF 1958 

RE -NUMBERED AS REF. No. 17 OF 1959 
In the matter of the Bank of Mysore Limited, Bombay 


AND 


Their Workomen , 

PRESENT : 
Shri F . Jeejeebhoy, Judge. 


APPEARANCES : 


For the Bank - Shri Tanubhai D . Desai, Solicitor , with Mr. S . Narayanaiah , 

Advocate, and Shri M . A . Aleem , Manager , Bank of Mysore, Bombay Branch . 
For the Workmen - Shri M . Rajagopal, General Secretary, Bank of Mysore 

Employees Union , Bombay, with Shri K . G . Narayanaswamy. Workmen 
concerned . 


AWARD 


The Central Government in the Ministry of Labour and Employment by its 
Order of 7th October 1958 referred an industrial dispute between the Bank of 
Mysore Limited , Bombay Branch , and their workmen for adjudication by the 
Industrial Tribunal, Nagpur. The Reference was subsequently transferred to this 
Tribunal by an Order of 5th May 1959. The dispute in question appcaring in the 
schedule is as follows: 


" Whether the transfer of Shri K . G . Narayanaswamy, a workman of the 

Bank , from Bombay to Bangalore is justified and if not, to what relief 
he is entitled." 


2 . The facts are shortly these : Shri K . G , Narayanaswamy, hereinafter referred 
to as the employee joined the Bank of Mysore in Bombay about 10 years ago 
as a clerk , and he continued as a clerk with his emoluments rising with his years 
of service until he was transferred to Bangalorc in 1958. This Reference is con 
cerned with the validity of that transfer . 


- 


- 


SFC, 3 (11) 1 TTIE GAZETIE OF INDIA : AUGUST 2 ) , 1959 / BHADRA 7 , 1881 

2077 
- -- _ — 

3 . The Bank of Mysore had applied to the Reserve Bank for permission to 
open six new branches in pursuance of a policy to expand the banking system . 
The Reserve Bank issued a formal order on or about 23rd May 1958 giving per 
mission to the Bank of Mysore to open six new branches at Mercara, Hyderabad , 
Gulbarga, Nanjangud Hospct, Bellary and Challakerc . The Bank in the mean 
time had been working out a scheme for the manning of new branches which 
involved some transfers and training at the head office of the Bank at Bangalore. 
The Bank maintains that among the persons selected by the head office at Banga 
lore as a result of the scheme of expansion was the cmployee in this Reference , 
and the head office had worked out a programme of training for him as will appear 
from exhibit K which has been signed by the General Manager of the Bank . 
That scheme of training was intended to give him an intensive period of training 
at the Head Office for 32 weeks; details of such training are given in exhibit K , 
and it is common ground that the employce after his transfer to Bangalore has 
in fact undergone training as to three of the items of the programme. 

4 . Transfers by the Bank are not uncommon because of exigencies of service , 
as evidenced by exhibit J , which is a list of some 68 employees transferred by 
the Bank during 1958. Indeed thrce of the senior clerks were sent to the Bom 
bay office from the head office at Bangalore because they were experienced in 
particular branches of bank work , and one of them was conversant with securitics 
and has since been doing that work in Bombay . It is not suggested by labour that 
these 68 transfers in 1958, or any of them , were motivated by victimisation , 

5 . On 28th May 1958 the company informed the employce as well as the union 
of the intention of the Head Office to transfer the employee to the Head Office 
at Bangalore . This notice was also posted on the notice board in pursuance of 
a direction of the Sastry Award ( paragraph 535 ) that " except in very special 
cases , whenever the transfer of any of the above mentioned office bearers is 
contemplated , at least five clear working days notice should be put up on the 
notice board of the bank of such contemplated action ; any representations, written 
or oral, made by the union shall be considered by the bank ; if any order of trans 
fer is ultimately made, a record shall be made by the bank of such representa 
tions and the bank s reason for regarding them as inadequate ; and the decision 
shall be communicated to the union as well as to the employee concerned ." 

6 . This direction of the Sastry Tribunal applicd to this employee because he 
had been one of the Joint Secretaries of the Union) from its inception in 1956 . 
There is no dispute that this notice was given and was duly posted on the Notice 
Board . There is however a dispute as whether any representation against the 
transfer was made by the employec or the union within the five clear working 
days of the notice, for the direction in the award contemplated that if no objec 
tion was received within those five days the Bank would be at liberty to protecd 
with the transfer , as in fact the Bank did by its letter of 4th June 1958 informing 
the employee that he was transferred to the head office at Bangalore and that 
he was to report for duty as early as possible . 

7 . The union alleges that a letter from the union was duly delivered to the 
Bank on the 2nd June 1958 objccting to the transfer on the ground that it was 
a case of victimisation that the transfer was unwarranted and could be avoided , 
that the transfer would cause considerable inconvenience to the employee and 
the transfer was not warranted by the exigencics of the business of the Bank ; 
it was therefore contended that thc action of the Bank was mala fide. At the 
hearing it appears from the evidence of the employee that his main objection 
to the transfer was the fact that he had been living with his brother in Bombay 
and that a transfer to Bangalore would subject him to additional expenditure . 

8 . The question whether the letter of the union of 2nd June 1958 was deli 
vered to the Bank , and within the five days, has been carefully considered , and 
evidence has been led on the subject . I am satisfied that no such letter was 
delivered to the Bank on 2nd June I refrain from discussing the evidence 
because in the view that I take of the matter any such discussion would involve 
more than one clerk of the Bank and would not help industrial peace . I am 
however bound to investigate under the Reference whcther there was any lack 
of justification for the action which the Bank took . 

9. On the charge of victimisation the union contends that the employee had been 
selected because he was an active worker of the union and had thereby antogonised 
the Bank , The union was formed in 1956 and there were two Joint Secretaries , 
one by name Krishnamurthy and the other the employee himself . Krishna 
murthy was transferred to Bellary and was ultimately dismissed on a charge for 
which one of the punishments was dismissal ; he took the matter in adjudication , 


2078 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 29, 1959 BITADRA 7, 1881 [Part II 

- - 
and ultimately the matter was settled at the time of hearing mainly on the 
basis of converting the dismissal into a discharge . I can draw no adverse 
infercncc from what happened in Krishnamurthy s case . As regards thc em 
ployce before me, it is said that while he was Joint Secretary he compelled the 
Bank to pay overtime which had not been previously paid . It is not alleged , 
much less attempted to be proved , that the Manager or the management bore 
a grudge against him ; in fact the present Manager came to the Bank in 1956 
and always paid for overtime; there was some dispute about arrears, and one 
of the reasons for non -payment was the fact that overtime had been claimed 
cven for days on which workmen had been on leave. The only achievement 
of the union after it was formed , and in fact it is presumed the only legitimate 
complaint it had , related to the payment of arrcars of overtime which in one 
quarter amounted to Rs. 225 . It must be appreciated that overtime is payable 
under the award of the Sastry Tribunal and not only the Banks but all their . 
cmployees are full conversant with that fact. No doubt non - implementation is 
a valid grievance but labour in the banking business today is well organised 
and it quite capable of looking after itself. In fact the President of the Union 
is a member of the Bombay Legislative Assembly and the General Secretary who 
has conducted this case is also an outsider , and both are quite competent to look 
after the rights of the workers quite apart from the Joint Secretary , I am unable 
to accept the view of the union that the employee has been victimised because 
he as Secretary of the Union sponsored the matter of payment of overtime. The 
Banks know that they have to pay overtime, and that a claim for overtime pay 
ment cannot be resisted . In actual fact the dispute as to overtime was confined 
to a question of hours of work . 


10 . It is next said that someone else could be selected instead of this employee . 
There are however only two persons who could be selected , One is a Gujerati 
whose appointment in Mysore would mean language difficulties. The other 
one has recently lost his father and has a large family to support and the Bank 
does not feel that he should be transferred . It has been urged by the union that 
one of the three persons who had come from the head office should have been 
sent back , but as I have said before , they are senior among clerks, and they have 
been sent here because they are experienced men and have had special training 
in the Bank s work . 


11 . It is my function in cases of this kind to satisfy myself that the manage 
ment has not acted mala fide and that there has not been a violation of the prin 
ciples of natural justice in or about the transfer . It is the function of the Bank 
to decide whether the exigencies of service demand the transfer of an employee 
from one branch to another branch or to the head office , and that right cannot 
be fettered without detriment to the service of the Bank . No doubt the Bank 
should minimise the hardships as far as possible but I am unable to And in or 
about the transfer of this employee any grounds for believing that the Bank 
was moved by ulterior motives to transfer him from this place to the head office, 
and thereafter to a branch , for that is the scheme of the Bank . It may be that 
when considering questions of transfers the Bank has to choose between two or 
three persons of experience and suitability , but it is not the function of this 
Tribunal to substitute its judgment for the judgment of the Bank in selecting 
the employee who should in fact be transferred . The Union invites me to hold 
that the whole story of the Bank as to training and manning of new branches 
is a fabrication in order to get rid of an ardent union worker from Bombay ; that 
Bombay is the only office of the Bank where a union has taken root, and therefore 
an attempt has been made to kill the Union . The Bank does not admit this and 
denies the allegation made . It is however well to remember that this union has 
just about 17 members including subordinate staff out of the total staff of 28 in 
the Bank , The allegation that an attempt was being made to kill the Union has 
little force in the light of existing facts and circumstances . 


12 . I am unable to come to the conclusion that there was anything improper 
in or about the transfer of this employee , The selection of the employee by the 
Bank was justified on the basis of the employce s experience , seniority and general 
suitability . In effecting such transfer the requirements of the award were duly 
observed as is manifest from the exhibits . It is true that the employee will no 
longer be able to live with his brother as he was doing in Bombay. But that 
cannot stand in the way of the Bank s exercising its legitimate powers of 
transfer for the benefit of its business. And lastly it is high time that the employee 
appreciated that the training which he is receiving at Bangalore , and the work 
which he will be allotted in the future as a result of that training , is bound to 
help in his onward progress . 


Ser . 8 ( 11 ) 1 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; AUGUST 29 , 1959 / BHADRA 7 , 1881 


2070 


13 . I therefore answer the Reference as follows: -- 
There is nothing improper or wrong in thc transfer of Shri K . G . Narayana 

swamy, a clerk of the Bank , from Bombay to Bangalore and he is 

not entitled to any relief under this Reference . 
I make this award accordingly . 

( Sd .) F . JEEJEEBHOY , 

Presiding Officer , 

Industrial Tribunal, Bombay , 
BOMBAY ; 
The 6th August, 1959 . 

[No . LRII/ 10 ( 103 ) /58.] 
New Delhi, the 24th August 1959 
$ : 0 . 1882. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay in the industrial dispute between the employers 
In relation to the Wadi Stone Marketing Company (Private ) Limited , and three 
others and their workmen . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT BOMBAY 

REFERENCE No. ( CGIT ) 15 OF 1959 

In the matter of 
(1 ) The Wadi Stone Marketing Co . (P ) Ltd ., 
( 2 ) The Shahabad & Martur Stone Supplying Co. ( P ) Ltd ., 
( 3 ) The Kurkunta & Seram Stones ( P ) Ltd ., 
(4 ) The Chittapur Stone Quarrying Co. (P ) Ltd ., 

AND 
Their Workmen . 

PRESENT: 

Shri F , Jeejeebhoy, Judge. 
APPEARANCES ; 

For ( 1 ) The Wadi Stone Marketing Co . ( P ) Ltd ., 
(2 ) The Shahabad & Martur Stone Supplying Co . (P ) 
Ltd ., and (3 ) The Chittapur Stone Quarrying Co . ( P ) 
Ltd . 

Shri G . Rustomji 
Sahabad and Shri 
Gustasp Rustomji 

Irani. 


For the Kurkunta & Seram Stones (P ) Ltd . - Shri Mohammed Dawood Ali 

khan . 
For the Workomen - Nil. 

AWARD 


By Its Order dated 30th April 1959 the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour and Employment has referred to this Tribunal for adjudication the 
disputes between the above companies and their workmen concerning the matters 
specified in the schedule to the said Order . A notice was issued on 8th May 
1959 to the Union named in the Reference calling upon the Union and the workmen 
to Ale their statement of claim , and the employers were directed to aflix copies 
of the Order at appropriate places in their premises and places of work of the 
workmen concerned , for their information ; and the employers have intimated 
that they have carried out the said order of the Tribunal. Neither the Union nor 
any workman has filed any statement of claim , and a pctition has been received 
from the companies concerned that in fact no disputes existed or exist and they 
suggest that this Reference had been made under å misapprehension of facts . On 


- 2080 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : ALGL ST 29 , 1959 BHADRA 7 , 1881 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- - 


22nd July 1959 this Tribunal issued a further notice to the employers and the 
Union pointing out that the workmen had not complicd with the terms of the 
notice of 8th May 1959 and had not Alcd any statement of clajm , and fixing the 
Reference for Orders before the Tribunal today at 11 AM , and a warning was 
given that as no statement of claim had been fled the Rcfcrence was liable to be 
closed for want of prosecution . 

The employers have appeared this morning. Neither the Union nor any 
representative oť the workmen has appeared . 

I have no alternative but to close the Reference for rion - prosecution . 

As there is no statement of claim , and labour is taking no interest ir : these 
proceedings, the Reference is closed , and an Award is made accordiogly . 
Dated 3rd August 1959 . 

F . JEEJEEBHOY , Judge , 
Central Govt., industrial Tribunal, Bombay . 

[No. LRII / 63 (11 ) / 56 . ] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 19th August 1959 
S . O . 1883 . Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the cmployers in relation to the Bank of Bihar Ltd ., Patna 
and their employees in respect of the matter spccificd in the Schedule hereto 
, annexed ; 

And whercas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the members of the supervisory staff including tlie Accountants 
and the Branch Managers of the Bank of Bihar are " workmen " as defined in 
section 2 ( s ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , as amended by the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 , as amended by the Industrial Disputes ( Amendment and 
Miscellaneous Provisions ) Act , 1956 , and if so , whether they should have all, 
or any of the benefits admissible to workmen under the Award of the All India 
Industrial Tribunal ( Bank Disputes ) constituted by the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Labour No. S . R . O . 35 , dated 5th January 1952 as modificd 
by the Industrial Disputes (Banking Companies Decision ) Act, 1955 . 

[No. LR . II. 10 ( 74 ) /57. ] 
New Delhi, the 20th August, 1959 
S . O . 1884. — Whereas the Saurashtra Bank Employees Union , Bhavnagar has 
demanded payment of special allowance of Rs. 15 ( Rupees fifteen only ) to Shri 
- M . H . Dagli of the Devkaran Nanjee Banking Company Lunited , Surendranagar 
under paragraph 164 ( b ) ( 7 ) of the Award of the All India Industrial Tribunal 
( Bank Disputes ) Bombay constituted by the notification by the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Labour Na. S R . O . 35 , dated the 5th January , 1952, as 
modified by the decision of the Labour Appellute Tribunal in the manncr referred 
to in section 3 of the Industrial Disputes ( Banking Companies ) Decision Act, 1955 
(41 of 1955 ) ; 


And whereas the Central Government is of opinion that a difficulty or doubt has 
arisen as to the interpretation of paragraph 164 ( b ) ( 7 ) of the said Award in res 
pect of the matter specified in the schedule hercto annexed ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of sec 
tion 6 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby refers the said matter for 
decision to the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay constituted as an industrial Tribunal 
in this behalf by the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour and Employment No. LRII - 10 ( 130 ) /58 - 1, dated the 5th June, 1959. 


frc . 9 ( ii )] DIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 29 , 1959/ BHADRA 7, 1881 208 
= = 

= - = 
SCHEDULE 
Whether the expression pay office appearing in para 164 (b ) ( 7 ) of the Award 
of the All India Industrial Tribunal ( Bank Disputes ) will include the Surendra 
Nagar Branch of Devkaran Nanjee Bunking Company Limited , Bombay , and 
whether Shri M . H Dagli is entitled to a special allowance of Rs. 15 ( Rupees 
fifteen only ) provided for in that para . 

[No. LRII. 10 ( 22) / 58 .) 
PYARE LAL GUPTA , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 19th August 1959 
S . O . 1885 . — Whereas immediately before the Employees Provident Funds Act , 
1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , became applicable with effect from the 1st November 1952 to 
the factory known as the Edward Textiles Ltd ., Ferguson Road , Bombay - 13, there 
was in existence a provident fund common to the cmployees employed in the 
factory , to which the said Act applies and the cmployees in its Head Office situat 
ed at Indu House , Dougall Road , Estate , Bombay - 1 . 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the said 
Act, the Central Government hereby directs that the provisions of that Act shall 
also apply to the aforesaid Head Office , 

[No. PF .II.7 ( 32) / 59 .1 


New Delhi, the 21st August 1959 
S . O . 1886 . - MULB / ( 2 ) / AM . ( 8 ) /57 , — In pursuance of clause 4 of the Madras 
Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment ) Scheme, 1956 , the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints Shri K . V Parthasarathy to be a member of the Madras 
Dock Labour Board in place of Shri K , Srinivasan who has resigned , and makes . 
the following further amendment in the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Labour No . SRO . 2377 /MDLB ( 2 ) /56, dated the 23rd October , 
1956 , namely : 

In the said notification , under the heading " Representatives of the Centrat 
Government” , in item ( 4 ), for the entry " Shri K . Srinivasan " , the entry " Shri K . 
V . Parthasarathy " shall be substituted . 

[No . Fac . 76 ( 23 ) . ] 
P . D . GAIHA , Under Secy 


New Delhi, the 20th August 1959 
S . O , 1887. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 33 of the Mincs Act, 
1952 ( 35 of 1952 ) , the Central Government hereby exempts the mines specified 
in the first column of the Schedule hereto annexed from the operation of clause 
( b ) of sub -regulation ( 2 ) of regulation 74 of the Coal Mincs Regulations, 1957 sub 
ject to the conditions specified in the third column of the said Schedule . 

SCHEDULE 


Mines exempted 


Names and addiesses of 

ownery 


Condition attached 

exemption 


to 


2 


2 


I . Industry and West Cina Cillieris Kalyanji Mavji & Company, 

P . O . Dhansar (Dhanbadi ) 
2. Tisra Colliery 

Anarsingh Gowunal & 

Sons , P . O . Jharia 

(Dhanbad ). 
3 . Jeenagusa (Past Batarec , Colliery Jeenagota (Fast Burarec ) 

Colliery Co. IL . CO 
Industry Colliery , P . O . 
Dhanuar (Dhanbad ) . 


The exemplion shall be for 

one year from the date of 
this notification and sub 
ject to the condition that 
the efficacy of brukes 
referred to in sub - regula 
lion ( 2 ) of regulation 74 
of the Coal Mines Regu 
lations, 1957 shall be 
examined in every shift 
by a competent person 
appointed in writing by 
the manager and once a 
weck personally by the 
manager himself. 


4 . Kujama Pandchra Colliery — l it Khas Basra Coul Concern 
No. 1. 

Ltd ., c /o Balıhari Colli- ry 
Co. Ltd ., P . O . Kusunda, 
(Dhanbad ). 


[No. MI-6 ( 7 ) / 59. 1 


2082 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 29 , 1959 /BHADRA 7, 1881 


[Part II 


New Delhi, the 24th August 1959 
S . O . 1888. - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
5 of the Mines Act, 1952 ( 35 of 1952 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shri Shyam Chandra , Welfare Inspector , Coal Mines Labour Welfare Fund to be 
Inspector of Mines subordinate to the Chief Inspector. 

[No. MII-G ( 83 ) 59 .] 
A . P . VEERA RAGHAVAN , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 24th August 1959 
S . O , 1889 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , read with the proviso to sub -section ( 2 ) of section 
1 of the said Act. the Central Government hereby appoints the Labour Inspector 
(Central) at Ambala as Conciliation Officer for a further period of six months 
from the 26th August, 1959, for all industrial disputes -- 
( a ) in the State of Punjab and the Union Territory of Himachal Pradesh 

concerning workmen employed in 
(i ) any industry carried on by or under the authority of the Central 

Government other than railways ; 
( ii) any controlled industry specified by the Central Government under 

sub -clause ( i ) of clausę ( a ) of section of the said Act ; 
(iil ) any mine ; 
(iv ) any oil field ; 
( v ) any banking, or insurance company, having branches or other estab 

lishments in more than one State ; 
(b ) in the State of Jammu and Kashmir concerning workmen employed 
under the Government of India . 

[No. LRI -1( 115 ) /59.] 
New Delhi, the 29th August 1959 


SO . 1890. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of section 22 
of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , read with the proviso to sub 
section ( 2 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby specifics . 
- for a further period of six months from the 26th August, 1959 , the Labour Inspector 
( Central ) at Ambala , as the authority to whom the employer shall send intimation 
of any lock -out or strike referred to in sub -section ( 3 ) of section 22 aforesaid , 
in the States of Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir and in the Union Territory of 
Himachal Pradesh . 

[No, LRI- 1 ( 115 ) / 59.] 
A . L . HANDA, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATON AND BROADCASTING 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 20th August 1959 
3 . 0 , 1891. - The Central Government hereby : 

( a ) directs , in pursuance of the provisions of the Order of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No. S . R . O . 3805, dated the 
26th December , 1955 and in modification of the Order of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No. S . 0 . 1252 dated the 20th 
May , 1959 that the Advisory Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors at Bom 
bay would consist of 31 members with effect from 15th July , 1959 , and shall con 
sist of 35 members with immediate effect ; 

( b ) notifies for general information that Shrimati Sushila Joshi and Smt. 
Madhuri D . Desui members of the Advisory Panel of the Central Board of Film 
Censors at Bombay retired under sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 9 of the Cinematograph 
(Censorship ) Rules 1958 with elect from 18th July, 1959 ; and 


Sec . $ (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 29, 1959 / BHADRA 7, 1881 


2083 


( c ) appoints, the following persons as members of the Advisory Panel of the 
said Board at Bombay with immediate effect in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub -rule ( 3 ) of rule 8 read with sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 9 of the Cinematograph 
(Censorship ) Rules , 1958 : 

1 , Smt. M . Lad . 
2. Smt. S . Panandikar , 
3. Smt. Uma Nehru . 
4 . Dr. Yudhvir Singh , 

[No. F . 11/2 /59 F .C .) 
V . P . PANDIT , Under Secy . 


FRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVT , OF INDIA PRESS , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1959 


