222 


REGISTERED No. D. ttt 


MRU aFT ^I5fW 

(The <& axette of ^Stadia 


srPiwtt r sviftm 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


Re 4l] *1$ RfRRTT, wqm 12, 1968/WlfW 20, 1890 

No. 41J NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 12, 19M/ASVINA 20, 1890 

fR rt»t ?( fire ^as rnjqt ft Rmt | fa crjr rr*t ifaRff $ trt 'ffi ifa ( 

Separate paging la given to this Part In order that It may be filed 
as a separate compilation. 

NOTICE 

jfNi fa* ntot r tmtErrtw Yi^m is wiw, 1 968 r«r smfiiR fatf ntf : — 

The undermentioned Gazettes ol'India Extraordinary were published upt to the 18th Sep- 
I ember, 1968 


Issue No. and Date Issued by Subject 

No. 


322 S. 0 . 3276, dated 10th Sep- Ministry of Home Affairs 
tember, 1968. 


Nomination of Shrimati Lhin- 
gianeng to the Legislative 
Assembly of Manipur. 


t^fl-orrf o 3277, fdffhi: ^f; hfair faRTK fpri ^ fr-$ JsftffU 

10 196 8 R-tfilTffff 47i JITTER TTffT I 


323 S. O. 3278, dated toth Sep- 
tember, 1968. 


Ministry of Industrial Extending the tenure of S.O. 
Development and Com- 1718, dated nth July, i960 
pany Affairs. upto 31st October, 1968. 


324 S. O. 3279, dated nth Sep- Ministry of Commerce, 
tember, 1968. 


S. O. 3280, dated nth Sep- Do. 

tember, 1968. 


Amendments to the notifica- 
tion No. S. O. 3216, dated 
7th September, 1967. 

Corrigendum to S. O. 3215, 
dated 7th September, 1967 . 


C 4611 ) 





4612 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 [Part II— 

Issue No. and Date Issued by Subject 

No. 


325 S. O. 3281, dated nth S 
ternber, 1968. 


326 S. O. 3282, dated nth 
tcmber, 1968. 


327 S. O, 3283, dated nth Sep- 
tember, 1968. 


328 S. O. 3284, dated nth Sep- 
tember, 1968. 


329 S. O. 3285, dated 13th Sep- 
tember, 1968. 


1- Ministry of Food, Agri- 
culture, Community 
Development and Co- 
operation. 

1- Ministry of Home Affairs. 


Central Board of Direc- 
tors. 


Ministry of Commerce. 


Ministry of Home Affairs. 


Amendment in the notifica 
tion No. S. O. 3^8, dared 

6th September, 1968 . 


Extending the powers and 
jurisdiction of the members 
of the Delhi Special Police 
Establishment to the whole 
of the State of Nagaland. 

Substitution by the Income- 
tax (Second Amendment) 
Rules, 1968. 

Amendment in the noliiicntion 
No. S. O. T95, dated 1 7th 
January, 1968. 

Prohibiting strikes in the 
essential services mentioned 
therein. 


S. O. 3286, dated 13th Sep- Do. 

tcmber, 1968, 


Declaring the supply of 
electrical energy to the pub- 
lic by the State Govern- 
ment , etc. to b: an essential 
service. 


S. O. 3287, dated 13th Sep- Do. 

ternber, 1968, 


Prohibiting Btrikes in any ser- 
vice connected with the 
supply of electrical energy 
to the public by the State 
Government etc. 


330 S. O. 3288, dated 13th Sep- Ministry of Law Bye-election to the Council of 

tcmber, 1968. States by the elected mem- 

bers of the Gujarat Legisla- 
tive Assembly. 

331 S. O. 3289, datod 14th Sep- Ministry of Finance Amendment in rhe notification 

tcmber, 1968. No. S- O. 3302, dated 14th 

September, 1967. 

332 S.0. 329O) dated 14th Sep- Ministry of Food, Delegation of powers under 

tember, 1968. Agriculture, Conuriu- the Essential Commodities 

mty Development and Act, 1955 in relation to 

Cooperation. prices, stocks and move- 

ments of cattle fodder of any 
of the varieties specified in 
the schedule therein to the 
State Government in the 
whole State of Rajasthan. 

333 S. O. 329t, dated 14th Sep- Ministry of Information Approval of the films as speei- 

tember, 1968. and Broadcasting tied therein. 


334 S. O. 3292, dated 1 6th Sep. 
tember, 1968. 


Ministry of Labour, Em- Award ofShriP. C. Rai, Arbi- 
ployment and Rehabili- trator in the industrial dis- 
tation. pute between the employers 

m relation to the Banki Col- 
liery of Messrs, N. C, D. C. 
Ltd., P. O. Banki Mogra 
District Bilaspur and their 
workman. 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 4613 


Issue No. and Date Issued bv Subject 

No. 


335 


S. O. 3383, dated 17th Sep- 
tember, 1968. 


Ministry ol Home Affairs Dcdarir g (i) the supply of 

Water and (ii) conservancy 
and sewage disposal to be 
an essential service. 


S. O. 3384, dated 17th .Sep- 
tember, 1968. 


336 S. O. 3385, dated 17th Sep- 
tember, 1968, 


337 S. O. 3386, dated l8tb Sep- 
tember, 1968. 


Do. 


Ministry ot' Labour, Em- 
ployment and Rehabi- 
1 itatton . 


Ministry of Commerce 


Prohibiting strikes connected 
with (i) the supply of Water 
and (ii) conservancy and 
sewape disposal in the Union 
Territory of Delhi. 

Constitution of a National 
Tribunal at Calcuun for the 
employers and workmen in 
the newspaper establish- 
ments. 

Amencimti ts to the notifica- 
tion No. S.O. 3208, dated 
7th September, 1967. 


tti: imnrrTT Tfjrqrf tI TfEri tttee jeeht, fEfaH uupE, fes-ifr t tte 

nfim tfw? Ti ee tfv tuthY 1 wfn'TT £ tie tdret & ti?j 
ffTftW E i 0 feT T ttfalT -IgE EF? TlfftT | 

Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Gazettes. 


we II — dm 3 — Trim (ii) 

PART II — Section 3 — Sub-section (ii) 

(vet E*THE t|ft OjhfTT) HITE ETTiTT ^ EETHTf Vft? (EE T51TEE Vt Tit) 

•PEftE Rrfb-TTJfff JTTI arrd f%tr sfer fVfERl ETYT E>r EfEEEETb I 

Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern- 
ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administration of Union Territories). 


ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 

New Delhi, the 29 th August 1968 

S.O- 3529 — In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes the order pronounced on the 31st July, 
1968, by the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir at Srinagtir, in Election Petition No. 3 
nf 1967. 

HIGH COURT OF JAMMU AND KASHMIR, SRINAGAR 

Present 

The Hon’ble Mr. Justice J. N. Bhat. 

Election Petition No. 3 of 1967 

Shri Ali Mohamad Tariq — Petitioner Bakshi Ghulam Mohamad and Ors. — Respondent. 


4614 1HE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 [Part II— 


ELECTION PETITION 

Mi. H. N. Dhar. 

M/s. T. R. B has in and P. L. Handoo. 

This election petition challenges the election of respondent No. 1 to the Srinagar 
-ParlJ amentary Constituency. A further prayer is made that the petitioner be declared 
elected from this Constituency. In the 1967 general elections the petitioner an'd the 
respondents stood for election to the Srinagar Parliamentary Constituency. The scrutiny 
of the nomination papers was conducted on 21st January, 1967 by the Returning Officer, 
Deputy Comm issi oner, Srnagar, accepting the nomination papers of the parties. The 
petitioner was a candidate sponsored by the J & K Pradesh Congress respondent No. 1 
was) sponsored by the All J. & K. National Conference party and respondent No. 3 Shri 
Trlloki Nath Mattu was a Bhartiya Jan Sangh candidate and respondent No. 2 stood as 
an independent candidate. A poll was held on 21st February, 1967. After counting on 
28th February, 1967 the respondent No. I was declared elected and the other candidates 
i.e. the petitioner and the other respondents 2 and 3 had lost the election. Tn this election 
petition, the election of the respondent No. I is challenged on various grounds as contained 
in the original petition dated 14th April, 1967. They arc briefly put as under: — 

That the respondent No. 1 (who shall be referred as ‘the respondent’ in this judgment; 
because the other respondents did not at all take any interest in this petition) appointed 
Peer Bahu-ud-Din S/o Peer Habib Ullah Shah R/o Khajpora Naushera, Srinagar, an em- 
ployee of the Police Force of Jammu and Kashmir State as polling agent at Saura who 

canvassed for his election and influenced the voters; that the respondent appointed Shri 

Ghulam Rasool Dar S/o Ghulam Mohd Dar R/o Kokarbagh Zonimar, Srinagar, a Govern- 
ment employee in the Education Department of the State as h : s polling agent at Gillikadal 
Polling Station, who exercised his influence over the voters to secure votes for the res- 
pondent; that the respondent paid huge amounts as illegal gratification an'd bribes to the 
voters and some of the instances of such payments are as under: — 

(a) he paid a huge amount to Shri Miraj-ud-Din Baba S/o Shri Ghulam Mohd 

Baba R/o Mian Shah Sahib the Majawair of Ziarat Mian Shah Sahib, Raina- 
wari, on 13th February, 1967, for distributing amongst the muslim voters 
residing in that area for purchasing their votes; 

(b) he paid in the first week of February, 1967 huge amounts to Moulvi Assad 

Too Gashroo S/o Ahad loo Gashroo and Abdul Khaliq Moulvi S/o Mohd. 

Sadiq Moulvi R/o Beggar, Ghat Jogilankar Rainawarl, Srinagar, the office 
bearers of Masjid Sharif Begyar, Rainawari; 

(c) that the respondent appealed to his voters in the name of religion for voting 

in his favour and represented to them that the Congress was an anti-muslitm 
organization and vote in his favour would be a vote in the name of Islam 
and Hazarat Pir Dastgir Sahib and vote for the Congress candidate would 
be a vote for the enemies of Islam; 

(d) that Muslim voters were approached in the name of religion by the respon- 

dent personally, through his election agent and other agents and canvassors 
within his knowledge and with his consent; 

(e) that the respondent induced the religious heads of Shias, Aga Sahib of 

Badgam in particular to issue directions and Fatwa among his community 
people for voting in his favour, and by appealing to their religious senti- 
ments, calling the congress candidate a ‘‘Yazeed"; 

(f) that religious heads of several Muslim mosques, Mujawirs and Managers were 

persuaded by the respondent to deliver speeches in mosques and appeal to 
the voters to vote in favour of the respondent and against the Congress 
candidate; 

(g) that these people campaigned regularly at the instance of the respondent, hi# 

agents and canvassors within his knowledge and with his consent and 
threatened the voters with Divine displeasure if they voted against the 
respondent; 

(h) that the respondent spent more than a lac of Rupees for bribing the voters. 

Tn private meetings and public speeches the Congress candidates were 
described as enemies of Islam. Religious threats were held out to the 
voters; 

(i) that all these activities of the respondent and his supporters influenced the 

voters in favour of the respondent. These corrupt practices rendered the 
election of the respondent void. That the petitioner having secured next 
highest number of votes in the poll, sought the declaration that the election 



Sec. 3 (ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968MSVINA 20, 1890 


4615 


of the respondent was void and the petitioner should be declared as elected 
to Inis Constituency, 


nn T n* K rC M ° ndC , qV-^ 0 ' J ilp P e ' J ' cd 00 Is* >967 and the respondents 2 and 3 appeared 
on rOth May, 1967. But both the respondents 2 and 3 remained absent: on 1st June 
ly ”' dnd £ xpane proceedings were taken against them. Respondent No. 1 field his 
written statement on 5th July, 1967 in which he denied all the allegations contained in the 
petition, Moreover the respondent raised some legal pleas some of which mav be 
nienuoned as under: 


I hat the election petition has not complied with the provisions of Section 83(h) and 
(c) of the Representation of People Act: that the affidavit, accompanying the election 
petition is not in accordance with the provisons of Section 83(1) (c) Proviso read with 
Rule -M-A of the Conduct of ejection Rules 1 96 1 and as such is no affidavit in the eye 
of law The allegations of corrupt practices cannot be enquired into because they were 
vague. Jack in essential particulars and are indefinite. 

19 issues were framed on 18th July, 1967 and the parties wore directed to file their 
list of witnesses by 28th July, 1967. I he respondent filed his list of witnesses but 
the petitioner did not file his list of witnesses for more than one hearing and ultimately 
he also filed his list of witnesses on 11th August, 1967. 

It was pointed out on behalf of the respondent that the whole petition was liable to 
dismissal as allegations contained therein were purely of corrupt practices. These 
allegations lacked in particularity, definiteness, time, date, the number of persons paid 
or corrupted and the part played by each one of them. After hearing arguments of the 
learned counsel for the parties, T passed a detailed order on 2nd of December, 1967. 
Out of the issues framed only issue Nos. 7 pertaining to the allegations contained in 
Paragraph No.. 9(1), issue No. 10(a) being the subject matter of Paragraph 9(vi) (a), 
issue No 10(b) which contained the matter of paragraph 9(vj) (b) of the petition, and 
issue No. 12 comprising the substance of paragraph No, 9(vi) (e) were retained. The 
issues that remained read ns follows: — 

7. Did Peer Bahaudin act as polling agent of respondent No. 1 at polling booths 
while he was in Government service and used his official influence to im- 
prove the prospects of the election of respondent No. 1 O. P. P. 

10. Did the respondent No. 1 pay huge amounts to the following: — 

(a) Shri Miraj-u-Din Baba s/o Cihulam Mohamad Baba, r/o Mian Shah Sahib, the 

Mujawar of Ziarat Mian Shah Sahib, Kainawari, on the 13th February, 1967 
for distributing it among the Muslim voters for purchasing iheir votes? O.P.P. 

(b) Maulvi Asad Joo Gashroo s/o Ahad Joo Gashroo and Abdul Khalik Moulvi 

s/o Mohammad Sadiq Moulvi, r/o Begyar, Jogilanker Rainawari, Srinagar, 
the President and Secretary of the Managing Committee of Masjid Sharif 
Begyar, Rainawari, as gratification for voting in favour of respondent No. 1 
and for payment to the voters canvassed by them? O.P.P. 

12. Did the respondent No. 1 induce the religious heads of Shias, Aga Sahib of Badgam 
in particular to issue directions and Fatwa among his community people to vote in favour 
of respondent No. 1 and against the Congress candidate by appealing to their religious 
sentiments and did the Aga Sahib of Badgam and other Shia religious heads at the instance 
and persuation of respondent No. 1 circulate Fatwas amongst their community describing 
the Congress candidate including the petitioner as “Yazids” and appealing to them in the 
name of religion to vote for respondent No. 1? O.P.P. 

The petitioner did not get his evidence for a number of hearings. The case was 
adjourned to the following dates for the evidence of the petitioner; 10th January, 1968, 
11th January, 1968, 12th January. 1968, 7th March, 1968, 8th March, 1968, 9th March, 
1968. The witnesses belonged mostly to Kashmir Province and some of the witnesses 
were served for 8tb of March, 1968 but none appeared as the costs deposited were not 
sufficient to cover their diet money and travelling expenses from Srinagar to Jammu. 
The petitioner was therefore directed to deposit Rs. 32 per witness and the case was 
adjourned to 28th and 30th of March, 1968. The petitioner did not deposit the necessary 
expenses for the witnesses. No witness was therefore present on 28th or 30lh of March, 
1968 and the case was adjourned to 25th OS' April, 1968. Since necessary expenses were 
not deposited, no witness was present on the 25th of April, 1968 and the case was 
adjourned to 16th, 17th and 18th of May, 1968 and the petitioner was directed to produce 
his witnesses himself; although he was not entitled to any such concession because of 
constant default committed by him. My order dated 25th of April. 1968 is solf contained 
in this behalf, A sum of Rs. 200 was awarded as costs against the petitioner. This 
ended the course of petition in Jammu. After that, the court had to move to Srinagar 



4616 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASV1NA 20, 1890 [Part II— 


and the petitioner was directed to produce his evidence on 16th, 17th and 1 8th ot May, 
1968. Actually the evidence ol the petitioner began from 16th of May, 1968. 

The petitioner produced Munshi Mohi-ud-Din Salati, Mohammad Abdulla Shair, 
Ghulam Hassan Dar, Ghulam Rasul Shah, Abdul Aziz, Mohd. Yusuf Wadha, S- Karam 
Singh, Malik Ghulam Mohammad, Ali Mohd. Pant, Ghulam Hassan Ian, Peer Abdul Ahad 
Shah, Mir Ghulam Mustalfa, Syed Abdul Majid, Mohammad Yusuf, Ghulam Mohd. Reshi, 
Habib Ullah Budhoo, Omkar Nath Trisal, Ghulam Mohammad Misger, Ghulam Hassan 
Khan, and Ghulam Ahmed Baba. The petitioner appeared us his own witness also. 

The respondent appeared as his own witness, and further produced R. N. Kaid, 
Advocate, Sycd Ali Safvi, Mohammad Sultan Bhat, Janki Nath, Ghulam Mohammad Bhat 
and Agii Sahib of Badgarn, who was examined on Co mmi ssion. 

1 need not reproduce in detail the evidence produced by the parties. The statements 
relevant to each issue will be discussed at their proper place. But before 1 take up my 
particular issue, I have to make some genera! observations in this case. 

The election petition is based mainly on some corrupt practices alleged to have been 
committed by or on behalf of the respondent. The law is very well settled that the 
standard of proof required in such cases is that of a criminal case. Tho allegations must 
be strictly proved as ingredients of an offence. If the proof falls short, the election of 
the returned candidate cannot be disturbed, The law presumes that a candidate, who 
has fought an election and won it should not be unseated or disturbed unless the allegations 
of misconduct or corrupt practices as they are called, are proved beyond any shadow of 
doubt. That is the first principle I have to keep in mind while disposing of this petition. 
With this major premise let us first give some general comments about the case of the 
petitioner. I have used the word petitioner because all the issues of the alleged corrupt 
practices had to be proved by the petitioner. At one time it was argued and rather 
vehemently by the learned counsel for the respondent that the affidavit in support of the 
corrupt practices as required under Section 83(b) and 83(c) of the Representation of 
People Act, was not in accordance with law. The ailidavit of the petitioner is Ex, P.W. 
21/D- 1 . At the end of the affidavit it is stated: — 

‘'On solemn affirmation I stale that the statemenls and facts contained in the 
petition are true and without any exaggeration or. suppression of the same- 

On solemn affirmation 1 state that the above statement is correct. “ 

At the end of the petition, the verification reads as under: — 

“T Ali Mohammad Tariq s/o Haji Sheikh Ghulam Qadir, C/o Guest House No. 5, 
Sonawarbagh, Srinagar, the petitioner today the 14th of April, 1967, at 
Jammu, do solemnly affirm that the contents of this petition from Paras 1 
to 10 are true to my knowledge and belief.” 

It did not specify the items of the petition, which the deponent-petitioner affirmed lo be 
true to his knowledge and which of the items were true to his belief. When this point 
was contested before me in December 1967, the learned counsel for the petitioner argued 
that the affidavit should be construed as stating that all the contenls of the affidavit and 
election petition were true to knowledge of the petitioner. I had further held this affidavit 
strictly speaking is not in accordance with law on the subject and in the prescribed form 
because even if tho argument ot Mr. Dhar were laken as correct, the affidavit should 
have said that the contents of anyone or ail the paras of the petition were true to the 
knowledge or belief of the petitioner, or which of them was true to his knowledge and 
which of them was true to his belie 1 . If a very strict view of the whole thing is" taken, 
the J 'lTupl ’/radices alleged in the pelilion can all be ignored and cannot bo the subject- 
matter of any issue, that practically finishes the election petition. But I take a liberal 
view in favour of the petition and agree with the argument of Mr. Dhar, counsel for 
the pet i 1 inner, that the petitioner intended to state that the allegations of the petition were 
true to his personal knowledge. "I therefore retained some of Ihe allegations of the 
petition were true to his personal knowledge”. I therefore retained some of the allegations 
of the petition which shall be discussed, hereinafter. So from this argument of ihe learned 
counsel for the petitioner and the stand taken on behalf of the petitioner, one has to 
scrutinize this case on the basis that the allegalions of corrupt practice as given in the 
petition are true to the knowledge of the petitioner. But when the petitioner appeared 
as his own witness, he made a different statement at one place he stated “I have no 
personal knowledge of any malpractices committed by the respondent No. 1 at Rainawnri 
but on my visits to that place, I was told that he has paid some money to some mosque 
as well as to some other persons”. Similarly about religious propaganda carried on by 
and on behalf of the respondent he stales that it was brought to his notice that this, 
propaganda was carried on. 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968 /ASVINA 20 , 1890 4617 


The allegations mentioned in issues, which now stand for determination arc vague and 
lack in definiteness and particularity; for instance about issue No. 10(a) and (b) the 
allegations made were that huge amounts were paid to Miraj-u-Din and Asad Joo Gashroo 
and others. Similarly the subject-matter of issue No. 12 lacks particularity because no 
place, time or date is mentioned. The name of only Aga Sahib of Badgain is mentioned 
and not of other Shia religious leaders. The evidence produced is not in conformity with 
the allegations of the petition or the issues framed. This aspect of the case will be 
discussed at its proper place. 

Before discussion the various issues, 1 would like to make some remarks about the 
witnesses produced, which would indicate that they should not be relied upon. 

Munshi Mohi-ud-Din Salati, P.W. 1 is a candidate who contested the election against 
the respondent from Safa-kadel Assembly Constituency, as a Congress candidate but lost. 
Mohammad Abdulla Shair, P.W. 2 also is a candidate of the Congress Party who contested 
elections for Zadibal Assembly Constituency but was defeated by the National Conference 
candidate. Ghulam Hassan Dar, P W. 3 was the election agent on behalf of the Congress 
candidate for the Assembly Constituency Badgam. Ghulam Rasul Shah, P.W. «t was the 
Chief Election Agent of the petitioner for the Srinagar Parliamentary Constituency. Abdul 
Aziz, P.W. 5 was working for the Congress Party in the. election campaign and was a 
member of the Election Sub-committee formed in Amirakadal Assembly Constituency for 
Shci C. M. Sadiq. Has got a Government plot allotted and a loan of Rs. 20,000 for the 
construction of his house. Mohd. Yusuf Wadha, P.W. 6 was the election agent for the 
Congress Party in Habba Kadal Assembly Constituency. Sardar Karam Singh, P.W. 7 
is the Halqa President of the Congress Khojayarbal- This person was an employee of 
the State Bank of Tndia, is under suspension for carelessness and in his words for passing 
wrong entries made by the despatcher without scrutiny, He has got a loan of Rs. 5,5C0 
from the Indusirtes Department. Malik Ghulam Mohammad, P.W. 8 was the Chief 
Election Agent of the Congress candidate from Zadibal Assembly Constituency. Ali 
Mohammad Pant, P.W. 9 has made an application for employment to the Arts Emporium. 
Ghulam Hassan Jan, P.W. 10 is the Congress President of Zadibal Halqa. The election 
office as well as Congress Halqa Committee Office is housed in his building. Peer Abdul 
Ahad Shah, P.W. 1 1 had a chequered career. Was a member of Sadiq Sahib’s Election 
Sub-committee, Amir Kadal. Mir Ghulam Mustaffa, P.W. 12 was the election agent in 
Chadoora Assembly Constituency on behalf of the Congress candidate. He does not know 
whether his father or brother have got Rs. 30,000 from the Government as loan for 
brick-kiln. He is a District Secretary of the Rural District Congress Committee and his 
brother-in-law is the President of that Rural District Congress Committee. Ghulam Mohd. 
Rashi, P.W. 15 is Block President of Congress at Ward No. 8 , Srinagar and has got an 
Industrial Loan of Rs. 3,000 from the Government. Habib Ullah Budhoo, P.W. 16 is 
the Block President of the Congress. Omkar Nath Trisal, P.W. 17 is a party worker, 
who was first in the National Conference, then in D.N.C. and has not joined the Congress 
Party. Ghulam Mohd. Misger, P.W. 18 is a Congress Block President for Ward No. 7. 
Ghulam Hassan Khan, P.W. 19 is Halqa President Congress at Wantapora, 

After making these general observations let me start with the issues as they arc. Issue 
No. 7 reads as under:— 

“Did Peer Baha-u-Din act as Polling Agent of respondent No. 1 at polliug booths 
while he was in Government Service and used his official influence to improve 
Ih* prospects of the election of respondent No. 1? O.P.P.” 

The allegation of the petitioner in the petition was that this Peer Baha-u-Din was an 
employee of the State Government Police Force. He was the polling agent of the 
respondent at Saura Polling Station, where he canvassed even on the day of poll and 
brought pressure on the voters to vote in favour of the respondent- In support of this 
allegation on this point, the petitioner has stated that "there was a polling booth at Saura. 
I do not remember the name of the'polljng agent, of the respondent No. 1 at Saura Polling 

Station but he was an employee of the Police Department When f went to that 

polling station, I heard complaints against that polling agent to the effect that he was 
canvassing votes for the National Conference Party. I personally told the gentleman not 
indulge in such corrupt practice”. Further he says "At the time of my visit, to Saura 
one or two voters, were in the polling booth at Saura. I cannot say whether I talked to 
the Presiding Officer including my polling agent. T do cot remember the name of my 
polling agent at that station. I do not know who was the polling agent of the Assembly 
Congress candidate”. Mohammad Abdulla Shair, P.W. 2 who also stood for the Assembly 
election from the Zadibal Assembly Constituency on the Congress ticket but was defeated 
by the National Conference candidate states about this Issue that Peer Baha-u-Din, an 
employee of the Police Department was the polling agent of the respondent. He worded 
as such on the day of poll also. He cannot give the name of the polling agent of the 
petitioner nor of the Presiding Officer or Polling Officer. He further states that he had 
no complaint to make to the election authority about the conduct of Peer Baha-u-Din 



4618 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 [Part II - 


before 21st February, 1967, He does not know when Peer Baha-u-Din joined Government 
Service. Ghulam Rasul Shah, P.W., who was the petitioner’s election agent, also stated 
that this Baha-u-Din who was an employee of the Special Police was influencing the voters 
as polling agent of the respondent. He docs not remember the name of the polling agent 
of the petitioner at Saura nor does he know who was the Presiding Officer or Polling 
Officer at the station. No complaint was made by him to any of the Officers. Against 
this evidence we have the evidence of Syed Abdul Majid (P.W. 13), Senior Grade Lecturer, 
S.P. College, Srinagar, who was the Presiding Officer of this polling station No. 14, Saura. 
According to this witness “Peer Baha-u-Din was one of the polling agents of the Assembly 
candidate from that Constituency. Respondent had appointed one Ghulam Hassan Dar 
as his polling agent but he did not present himself. Ho one worked as the polling agent 
of the respondent No. 1. Baha-u-Din was the polling agent for the candidate of National 

Conference candidate for Assembly Constituency the letter of authority given to 

Ghulam Hassan Dar by the respondent No, 1 is produced by me and is marked as P.W. 
13/D-l”. This Presiding Officer further states that "I had no reason to complain any 
time during the day about the conduct of Peer Baba-u-Din to the Returning Officer. Peer 
Baha-u-Din discharged his duties as a peaceful citizen as polling agent for the Assembly 
Constituency candidate. 151 voters came to poll to my polling station. No polling agent 
canvassed among the voters when they came to poll their votes”. The respondent as his 
own witness has denied that Peer Baha-u-Din was his polling agent or that he ever 
canvassed for him at any time muchless on the day of poll. He further stated that his 
polling agent at that station was Ghulam Hassan Dar whom he had appointed by 
means of an authority Ex. P.W. 13/D-l. So from the statements of P.Ws. rebutted by 
his own witness Syed Abdul Majid, P.W. 13 and that of the respondent supported by 
the written document (letter of authority of appointment of Ghulam Hassan Dar as polling 
agent of respondent at Saura Polling Station), the story that this Baha-u-Din acted as 
polling agent for the respondent and canvassed for him is not at all proved. It is further 
to be stated that no reliable evidence was produced to prove that this Peer Baha-u-Din 
was an employee of the Police Force of the State. The Superintendent of Police, Kashmir 
Armed Police and the Establishment Clerk of Kashmir Armed Police were cited as witnesses 
and these witnesses were summoned also but later there were not produced. So this 
issue is decided against the petitioner. Issue No. 10(a) and (b) which read as follows: — 

“Did the respondent No. 1 pay bage amounts to the following : — 

(a) Shri Miraj-u-Din Baba s/o Ghulam Mohammad Baba, r/o Mian Shah Sahib, 

the Mujawar of Ziarat Mian Shah Sahib Rainawari, on the 13th February, 

1967 for distributing it amongst the Muslim voters for purchasing their votes7 

(b) Maulvl Asad Joo Gashroo s/o Ahad Joo Gashroo and Abdul Khalik Moulvi 

s/o Mohamed Sadiq Moulvi, r/o Begyar, Jogilanker, Rainawari, Srinagar. 

the President and the Secretary of the Managing Committee of Masjid Sharif 

Begyar Rainawari as gratification for voting in favour of respondent No. 1 

and for payment to the voters canvassed by them? O.PP,” 

So far as the petitioner himself is concerned, he has no personal knowledge of any such 
payment having been made by the respondent to Miraj-u-Din Baba or Maulvi Asad Joo 
Gashroo and Abdul Khaliq. All that ho says in this behalf is that “I have no personal 
knowledge of any malpractices committed by the respondent No. 1 at Rainawari but on 
mv visits to that place, I was told that he has paid some monev to some mosque as well 
as to some other persons. Payment of money at such occasions by candidates would 
lead only to the inference that it was done with a view to secure the votes of such people 
in favour of the candidate making payment”. Neither Mirai-u-Din nor Asad Joo Gashroo 
or Abdul Khaliq have been produced. According to Mr. Bhasin the learned counsel for 
the respondent, the rule of best evidence would require that these people were produced 
M witnesses. Apart from their non-production let us examine the other evidence produced 
in this behalf. It has been argued that the amounts alleged to have been paid are not 
specified nor are the time and place specified in the petition. However the following 
witnesses depose about this Issue. Mohammad Abdulla Shair, P.W. 2 states that he has 
ho personal knowledge of any money having been paid by the respondent to these persons 
for being distributed among voters. All that he states is that some voters told him that 
thev hao been offered and paid money by the National Conference workers. Mohd. 
Yusuf Wadha, P.W- 6 states that the respondent’s workers distributed monev among the 
voters to vote for him and respondent also gave money to various voters. Those persons 
were in Habba Kadal Assembly Constituency. This evidence is not with respect to this 
Issue, Similarly Karam Singh states that some Ghulam Rasul told him that be had been 
paid Rs. 50 by the National Conference Party. This Ghulam Rasul is a resident of Kathi 
Darwaza. He has not been produced. Malik Ghulam Mohammad, P.W. 8 who was the 
election agent of Mohammad Abdulla Shair in the Zadibal Assembly Constituency states 
that he knows Miraj-ud-Din Baba who is one of the Muiawirs of Ziarat Mian Shah Sahib 
and Abdul Khaliq and Asad Joo Gashroo who are the President and Secretary of Begyar 
mosque respectively. He is one of the supervions of that mosque. This witness states 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12 , 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 4619 


that Ali Mohd. Mir paid Rs. } 1 from his pocket and Rs. Ill on behalf of the respondent 
to the mosque, This was paid during the election days, Tin's Ali Mohd, Mir paid various 
sums to other persons, whose names he does not disclose. This Ali Mohd. Mir was the 
agent of National Conference candidate and a covering candidate. Respondent came to 
the mosque on 12th February, 1967 when this money was paid. He produced a receipt 
book also. This witnesses statement makes an interesting reading particularly about this 
receipt book. He states that ‘ I got the receipt book presented in the court by me yesterday 
from Abdul Khaliq when he came to settle accounts of the Mosque. 1 eaimot say who 
has initialled it as the Treasurer”. The receipt bears the signatures of Abdul Khaliq, who 
has not been produced. Further the witness stated ‘‘the money collected by the mosque 
is accounted for in their accounts. The accounts are with the Managing Committee. 

I do not know whether some receipts have been removed from this receipt book presented 
by me which starts from 181 number. The last two ones pertain to the respondent No. 1 
and Ali Mohd. Mir. I cannot say whether these were the last ones in this receipt book 
or not. Every receipt book is of fifty receipts”. So it is admitted that these receipts are 
the last ones. Besides, they do not bear the signatures of the respondent or Ali Mohd. Mir. 
Further on the witness states “When I got it from the Secretary, I was chocking the 
accounts. I cannot say how much collection had been made from 13th February to 21st 
of February, 1967. There is no date given on receipt Nos 182 and 195. Similarly there 
is no date given on receipt Nos. 189 to 194. On receipt No. 196, the date of collection 
appears to be 24th of September, 1961. Similarly the date on receipt Nos. 197 and 198 
appears to be 24th of September, 1961 and 4th of October, 1961 respectively. From 
receipt Nos. 206 to 211 the gentleman who had received the amounts is shown us 
Mohammad Sultan. The receipt Nos. from 212 to 226 pertain to the year 1962 and Abdnl 
Khaliq is not the person who has received the donation as shown in the receipts. Receipt 
No. 227 is of 1965 and No. 228 is of 1966. In receipt No. 227, Abdul Khaliq is the person 
receiving and in receipt No. 228. 1 cannot say who is the person who has received the 
donation. Receipt Nos. 229 and 230 pertain to the year 1967. The amounts received 
vide receipt Nos. 229 and 230 are shown to have been received as donation. I do not 
remember on checking the accounts how much money was with the Cashier of this mosque. 

I do not remember how much money had the office-bearers of the mosque spent in the 
year 1967, That must be in the account". This witness’s statement needs no comment 
because from his statement it appears that the whole story is a fabricated one and simply 
some loose sheets have been put together and different years and dates have been lumped 
together to give it the shape of some regular account. No account book has been produced. 
Ghulam Hassan Jan, P.W. 10 who is from Zadibal states that respondent came to Gasiyar 
for three consecutive days before election for distributing money. What monev how much 
money is not at all slated. Mir Ghulam MustaJfa, P.W. 12 states that the resnondent 
paid some money to two Majawairs at Chari-sharif. To some people he paid Rs, 5 and 
to some Rs. 10. The respondent then threw some more money into the air for the people 
who were there. The same thing was done by the respondent at Pakhripora- Ghulam 
Ahmed Baba, P.W. 20 states that the respondent No. 1 came to Rainawari and went to 
the mosque and to the shrine of Mina Shah Sahib. He paid some money to one of 
members of the Managing Committee. Miraj-ud-Din Baba is his younger brother, he is 
a Mujawir of the mosque. Respondent paid about Rs. 300 to that gentleman in the name 
of Islam to procure votes for his party, It may be stated here that the evidence of the 
majority of the witnesses is not with respect to the issue nor are the allegations made by 
the witnesses like Ghulam Ahmed Baba. Ghulam Hassan Khan/Mir Gbulam Mustafla 
covered by any of the pleadings or issues in the case. 

Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad, respondent states that he “I do not know the members 
of the Managing Committee of Ziarat Mian Shah Sahib Rainawari nor do I know Ghulam 

Mohd. Baba or his brother Miraj-u-Din I do not know whether there is a mosque 

at Begyar, there may be one”. He knows Asad Joo Gashroo but does not know Abdul 
Khaliq. The respondent further states that ‘‘in 13th February, 1967 I did not visit the 
shrine of Mia Shah Sahib or any mosque at Rainawari as suggest. This is also not 
correct, as suggested that I gave any money to any Maulvi or Mujnvir of any mosque 
or shrine there in Rainawari”. His story is corroborated by his other witnesses particularly 
Janki Nath who has accompanied the respondent in his tour to Rainawari Assembly 
Constituency. 

From the above it can safely be said that this allegation of the petitioner is as frivolous 
as the allegation which was the subject-matter of the issue No. 7 and therefore I hold 
both these parta (a) and (b) of Issue No. 10 as not proved. 

Then the only remaining issue is Issue No. 12, which reads as under: — 

"Did the respondent No. 1 induce the religious heads of Shias, Aga Sahib of Badgam 
in particular, to issue directions and Fatwa among his community people 
to vote in favour of respondent No. 1 and against the Congress candidate 
by appealing to their religious sentiments and did Aga Sahib of Badgam and 
other Shia religious heads at the instance and persuation of respondent No. 1 



4620 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, I968/ASVINA 20 , 1890 [Part II— 


circulate Fatwas amongst their community describing the Congress candidate 
including the petitioner as ’Yazids’ and appealing to them in the name of 
religion to vote lor respondent No. 1? O.P.P." 

The petitioner himself has no personal knowledge of any such propaganda having been 
made by the respondent. All that he states is that “it was brought to our notice that there 
was a propaganda carried on on behalf of the respondent No. 1 that vote for the Congress 
candidate would tantamount unto inviting Hindu Raj. 1 met so many Shia voters in that 
Tehsil. They told me that the respondent No. I was exploiting the name of Aga Sahib 
of Badgam in his favour. It was according to Aga Sahib making the Congress candidate 
successful would be Inviting infidelity. The Aga had issued letters, to his followers to 
vote for the National Conference candidate and not for the Congress candidate”, in cross- 

examination he states that " f have not said in the petition that I went to Badgam 

during my election campaign, I have not specifically mentioned name of any person 
having told me about the religious propaganda carried on by the respondent No- 1 ..... . 
I can remember the name of Ghulam Hassan Dar and Sadiq Ali who told me that the 
letters and amulets were issued by the Aga of Badgam but they did not show me any 
such thing nor did I insist for the production of such things. I have not mentioned the 
names of Ghulam Hassan Dar and Sadiq Ali having given me this information in my 

petition. 1 do not know Aga Sahib I have never seen Aga Sahib’s face”. The 

petitioner further states that “there were five non-Muslim candidates on behalf of the 
National Conference party from Kashmir Valley. In the Tangamarg Constituency the 
Congress candidate Muslim was defeated by a National Conference candidate, a Sikh 
gentleman. Similarly in Rafia-abad Constituency a Sikh candidate of tho National 
Conference was defeated by a Muslim candidate of the Congress Party”. Sadiq Ali was 
not produced. Ghulam Hassan Dar though produced does not support the petitioner's 
statement as mado by- him. In addition to this evidence the evidence produced in support 
of this issue by the petitioner is Munshi Mohi-ul-Din Salati states that on behalf of the 
respondent party it was alleged among the voters that Aga Sahib had issued directions 
that voting should be done in favour of the National Conference and not in favour of 
the Congress Party because voting in favour of Congress would be inviting Hindu Raj. 
Such propaganda aroused communal passion. This witness has not gone to Badgam 
Assembly Constituency at all. He has never met Aga Sahib during 21st January, 1967 
to 21st February, 1967. He did not see any pamphlets, posters, etc., published by or on 
behalf of the respondent within the limits of his constituency. Does not remember who 
told him about Aga Sahib. Mohammad Abdulla Shair, P.W. states that he bad heard 
that the respondent’s party saying that Congress is an irreligious body, people should not 
vote in favour of the Congress candidate. He does not remember having seen any poster 
or published material issued by or on behalf of the respondent or on bohalf of Aga Sahib 
of Badgam. Ghulam Hassan Dar, P.W. states that the propaganda that was carried on 
behalf of the respondent was that under the directions of Aga Sahib votes should not be 
cast in favour of the Congress candidate. Congress is a body of irreligious people and 
success of Congress would mean Hindu Raj in the State. He heard about this propaganda 
from voters, namely, Ghulam Haider, Abdul Karim, Sardar Rugh Nath Singh, Munshi 
Mohi-ud-Din, Sycd Ghulam Hassan and other: but none of ihesc people were produced 
nor were their names mentioned in the petition. The witness further states that Agha 
Sahib did not deliver a speech on 21st February, 1.967 or earlier. About Aga Sahib the 
witness states that he is not a communalist but believes in religious tolerance. Ghulam 
Rasul, P.W. states that there was propaganda on behalf of the respondent No. I that 
Aga Sahib had issued Falwa that ali Shins should vote for Notional Conference candidate 
and against. Congress candidates who want to induct the Ram raj in tho State. Abdul Aziz, 
P.W. states that there was propaganda among Shia voters that Aga Sahib of Badgam had 
directed them not to vote for Congress, that would be bringing Hindu Raj, Mohd. Yusuf 
Wadha, P.W. states that the respondent delivered a public speech at Chandapora. After 
that he went in his car to Habba Kadal Chowk, stopped the car and there he told the 
people not to vote for the Congress and to be careful not to get Hindu Raj into the Slate. 
Some Fatwas of Aga Sahib of Badgam were also referred to that that olace. But this 
witness states that he did not complain about the speech of the respondent to anyone but 
tho matter was reported to Syed Mir Qasim. and to the petitioner. Sardar Karam Singh, 
P.W. states that the National Conference workers enjoined upon S. Lai Singh to look 
towards Punjab as to what was being done, there, why should he assist in bringing about 
Hindu domination into the State. According to this witness neither Lai Singh nor he 
made a report to the authorities. He however informed the Congress candidate. This 
Lai Singh has not been produced. Malik Ghulam Mohammad, P.W, also states in the 
same strain but this witness states that he did not see any poster being circulated in his 
constituency. National Conference also accepts the accession of Kashmir with India as 
final as docs Congress. Ali Mohammad Pant, P.W. also makes such general allegations, 
He did not go to Badgam after luly 1967. Ghulam Hassan Khan, P.W, states that the 
respondent No. 1 asked that people to vote for National Conference and not for Congress, 
why, he does not know. Peer Abdul Ahad Shah, P.W. also states likewise but he admits 



Sec. 3(ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 4621 


that he never heard the respondent No. ] making speech in his constituency on election 
days nor did he move out of Iris Constituency. He was carrying on election campaign 
on behalf of Shri O. M. Sadiq, Chief Minister of the State. He did not come across any 
poster on behalf of the respondent. Mir Ghulam Mustaffa, P.W. also states that at Chari- 
Shanf and Pakhoropora the respondent made an appeal on religious sentiments to the 
people. He states that he did not see any poster, published material on behalf of the 
respondent. He reported his matter to his friends and political workers. Mohammad 
Yusuf, P.W. also mentions that Aga Sahib of Badgam had issued Fatwa to vote in favour 
of the National Conference Party and against Congress because Congress domination 
would be inviting Hindi Rai, There was no written poster on behalf of respondent. News 
about this propaganda was not published in any newspaper. Ghulam Mohd. Keshi, P.W. 
states to the same effect. According to this witness he informed the Congress Office of 
this propaganda of the respondent No. I. Habib Ullab Budhoo, Omkar Nath Trisal, 
Ghulam Mohd. Misger and Ghulam Hassan Khan also make similar statements. 

As against these vague loose statements made by these witnesses, we have the hrst 
direct testimony of Aga Sycd Yusuf, known as Aga Sahib of Badgam. His categorical 
statement is that the respondent never went to him during election nor did he ask him 
to make propaganda on behalf of any person or party. He i,e. the Aga does not indulge 
in politics. He does not participate in any political meetings. He did not know what was 
the propaganda carried on by different parties. The offices of the National Conference 
and Congress are located in a building belonging to Auqaf, of which he is the President. 
Further we have the statement of Bakshi Gulam Mohammad, respondent. He states 
that he has never taken recourse to making appeals on religious sentiments to people. On 
12th February, 1967 he addressed his first public meeting at Gadood Bagh, which was 
a joint meeting of the opposition parties. Whatever he has said in that public speech 
is contained in the issue of the Nawai Kashmir newspaper dated 13th February, 1967, 
which is Ex. D.W. 1 / 2 and his appeal to the public, published in that newspaper is 
marked as Ex. D.W. 1/3. He did not go to Habbakadal on this day but went straight 
from Gadood Bagh to his residence through Basant Bagh. He did not approach the Aga 
Sahib of Badgam nor did Aga Sahib issue any Fatwa or directive to the voters to vote 
for National Conference nor did ho say that vote for Congress would be vote for Hindu 
Raj. The respondent further stated that “there is no basic difference between the 

principles given out by the Indian National Congress and the National Conference so 

far as the accession of the state with Tndia is concerned. The National Conference fought 
for it, worked for it and stands for it. The Constituent Assembly elected on the National 
Conference ticket ratified the accession of Kashmir with India.” He admits having gone 
to Rainawari and making a public speech there. Similarly R. N. Kaul Advocate R. W. 
who also stood for Habbakadal Assembly Constituency seat but was defeated by the 
National Congress candidate stated that on 12th February, 1967 the respondent addressed 
a meeting at Gadood Bagh, but he did not go to Habbakadal that day. He had accom- 
panied the respondent in his election tour but no where was any religions appeal made 
by the respondent. Syed Ali Safvi R.W. also, makes a similar statement. Mohd. Sultan 
Bhat R.W. who is 0 resident of Batawara also makes a similar statement. Tanki Nath 
R.W, who is a resident of Shitalnath, Srinagar Ghulam Mohammad Bhat, Ry'O Bream 
make similar statements stating therein that the respondent never made any religious pro- 
paganda during the election campaign. 

It is easy for partymen to make such loose and vague statements. Not a wold in 
writing has been shown to have been said or issued by or on behalf of the respondent, 
wherein appeal to the religious sentiments of the Muslim was made or wherein the 
Congress or its candidates were described as infidels or “Yazeeds”. According to the 
witnesses for the petitioner the news of such objectionable propaganda having been carried 
by the respondent or his party, was conveyed to the party bosses. No protest was ever 
lodged by them, No issue of Khidmat. newspaper has been produced to show that there 
was any such complaint against the propaganda carried on by the respondent or by his 
party during the election days. Khidmat is an official organ of the Congress party. On 
the other hand the only documentary evidence available is an issue of Nawai Kashmir, 
of 13th February, 1967, a news paper, in which the purport of Bakshi Ghulam 
Mohammad’s speech as well as the appeal he made to the voters is published. This appeal 
is based on purely secular basis and there is no hint on religious basis to the voters. 
Besides, as stated by the respondent and as admitted by the petitioner as well as by some 
other witnesses for instance Ghulam Hassan Dar, there is no basic difference between 
the ideals of National Conference and the National Congress. Both believe in secularism 
and social democracy. Therefore it does not stand to reason why the respondent would 
carry on any religious propaganda to appeal to the sentiments of his co-religionlsts. His 
party had set up non-Muslim candidates and there were direct contest between Muslim 
candidates representing different parties. Shia candidates were set up by either patty. 
All this has been plotted and attempted to be proved to somehow get the election of the 



.4622 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 [Part IE- 


respondent declared void. Besides, as I made a general remark about most of the 
witnesses for the petitioner in the beginning their statements un-corroborated by any 
documentary evidence but contradicated by Aga Sahib of Badgam and other respondent’s 
witnesses do not deserve any credence. The result is that even this issue is not proved 
by the petitioner. 

The result is that this election petition has no merit, it deserves dismissal and is hereby 
dismissed with cost. Counsel fee shall be computed at Rs. 700. 

The substance of this order shall be intimated to the Election Commission and the 
Speaker of the Lok Sabha immediately and an authenticated copy of this judgment shall 
be sent as soon as possible to the Election Commission as per terms of Section 103 of the 
Representation of People Act. 

Srinagar 

the July 3 1st, 1968. 

Sd./- 

Judge. 

[No. 82/3/J&K/HP/68.1 
By Order, 

K. S. RAJAGOPALAN, Secy. 


New Delhi, the 24 th September 1968 

S.O. 3530, — In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, 
the Election Commission hereby publishes the Order, pronounced on the 12th August, 1968 
by the High Court of Judicature for Rajasthan at Jodhpur in Election Petition No. 14 
of 1967. 

IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE FOR RAJASTHAN AT JODHPUR 

JUDGMENT 

Karan Singh, son of Rawat Singh, r/o Rohandi, Tehsil Parbatsar, District-Nagpur, 
Rajasthan. 

Vs. 

Nand Kumar Sornani S Jo Shri Gajadhar Somani, r/o Maulasar, Tehsil-Deedwana, 
District-Naguar. 

2. Gulab Chand Kabra S/o Sri Kanhaiyala, r/o Kuchamancity, TehsiFNawa, 
District-Nagaur, Rajasthan. 

Election Petition No. 14 of 1967 under section 80, 80-A and 81 or the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, 


Date of judgment : 


August 12, 1968 


Present 

Reportable 

THE HON’BLE MR. JUSTICE L. N. CHHANGANI. 

Shri G. M. Lodha — for the respondent No. 1. 

Shri M. R. Bhansali — for the respondent No. 2. 

Shri S. N. Bhargava — for applicant Shri Onkar Singh. 

By the Court 

This is an election petition filed by one Shri Karan Singh calling in question the 
election of the respondent No. 1 Shri Nand Kumar Somani to the Lok Sabha from the 
Nagaur Parliamentary Constituency in the last general elections. 

The petition was initially presented by Shri Karan Singh on 11th April 1967 in which 
the respondent No. 1 Shri Nand Kumar Somani was impleaded as the sole respondent. 
It may be pointed out that the candidates for election from the Nagaur Parliamentary 
Constituency in the last general election included one Shri Gulab Chand Kabra, who shall 
be referred as respondent No. 2 as also one Shri Onkar Singh, who shall hereafter be 
referred to as applicant. After the presentation of the election petition Shri Gulab Chand 
Kabra submitted an application under section 86 of the Representation of the People Act 
(herelnafttr referred to as the Act) on 9th May, 1967 for being joined as a respondent. 



Sec. 3(ii)l THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 46 , 23 . 


This Court, on 6 th July, 1967, allowed the application of Shri Gulab Chand Kabra and. 
ordered that he shall be impleaded as a respondent on the condition that he deposited 
Rs. 2,000 as security for costs within one month. The said amount having been deposited, 
he was joined as a respondent by the order of this Court dated 21st July, 1967. It may 
he further mentioned that after some charges of corrupt practices were struck down by 
this Court Shri Gulab Chand Kabra submitted an application for being transposed as a 
petitioner. This application was rejected on 13th September, 1967. An application for 
re-hearing was presented but was eventually not pressed. 

The other contesting candidate Shri Onkar Singh did not choose to put in any appli- 
cation under section 86 of the Act. 

The respondent No. 1 contested the election petition and denied the various allegations 
made against him. 

On the pleading of the parties issues were framed on 23rd October, 1967. This Court 
framed one preliminary issue and four issues on merits. The preliminary issue was decided 
on 13th December, 1967 and the case remained for recording the evidence of the parties. 
No date was, however, fixed for recording evidence. On 3rd May, 1968 the petitioner 

Shri Karan Singh submitted an application for fixing an early date for recording his 

evidence. 7th and 8 th May, 1968 were fixed for recording the petitioners evidence. 
However, on behalf of the petitioner an adjournment was sought and eventually 
it was directed on 10th May, 1968 that a date for recording evidence of the petitioner 
shall be fixed in the month of July, 1968. On 10th July, 1968 the petitioner Shri Karan 
Singh presented an application praying that the recording of his evidence should be com- 
menced. The case came up before me and the petitioner insisted that his statement be 
recorded and the statements of his witnesses be also recorded. The case was taken up 
on 10th July at different points of time and eventually one Shri Mahavir Rai Bhansali, 
Advocate, appeared on behalf of Shri Gulab Chand Kabra, respondent No. 2 and prayed 

that his client should be transposed as a petitioner and be permitted to lead evidence in 

support of the allegations contained in the election petition. Shri Karan Singh also 
submitted an application praying that his evidence be closed. The Court closed the 
evidence of the petitioner Shri Karan Singh. Dealing with the prayer of Shri Mahavir 
Raj Bhansali on behalf of Shri Gulab Chand Kabra, he was directed to submitted an 
application in writing, An application in writing was made by Shri Gulab Chand Kabra. 
This application was opposed by the respondent No, 1 but this Court permitted Shri 
Gulab Chand Kabra to lead evidence in support of the allegations contained in the election 
petition. On 7th August, 1968, however, Shri Gulab Chand Kabra also submitted a 
written application stating that his witnesses based their allegations on information received 
from other sources and that none of them was prepared to swear the allegations on oath. 
It was also stated that he himself had no personal knowledge regarding the allegations ■ 
contained in the election petition. On this application, the evidence of Shri Gulab Chand 
Kabra was also closed. In the meanwhile, one Shri Onkar Singh applicant submitted an 
application under section 151, Civil Procedure Code and section 109 and 110 of the Act. 
It was stated in this application that the action of the petitioner Shri Karan Singh is not 
examining himself and is not adducing evidence is equivalent to the withdrawal or non- 
prosecution of the election petition and consequently, this Court was requested to act 
under the provisions of sections 109 and 1 10 of the Act. This application is contested 
by the respondent No. 1. I heard Mr. Bhargava on behalf of the applicant and Mr. 
Guman Mai T.odha for the Respondent No. 1. 

At the out set it will be useful to refer to the observations of the Supreme Court in 
Jagan Nalh v. Jaswant Singh and others ( r ) which read as follows: — • 

“The general rule is well settled that the statutory requirements of election law 
must be strictly observed and that an election contest is not an action at 
law or a suit in equity but is a purely statutory proceeding unknown to the 
common law and that the court possesses no common law power. It is also 
well settled that it is a sound principle of natural justice that the success 
of a candidate who has won at an election should not be lightly interferred 
with and any petition seeking such interference must strictly conform to the- 
requirement of the law," 

Proceeding to examine the legal position in the light of the above observations of the 
Supreme Court I find it very difficult to invoke sections 109 and 110 of the Act in the 
present case, On an ordinary plain and cram metical construction of the language of 
sections 109 and 110 of the Act an application for withdrawal is necessary for laying 


(1) A.I.R, 1954 Supreme Court 210. 



4624 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 [Part II— 


down the foundation for taking further proceedings as envisaged in these sections and 
having regard to the well-known and well settled principles relating to the interpretation 
of statutes I do not see any compelling and substantial reasons to ignore the plain gram- 
matical meaning and to interpret these sections so as to authorise die Court to take 
proceedings envisaged in the sections even in cases where no such applications have been 
filed. I am very clear that in the absence of application for withdrawal a request for 
taking action under these sections on the basis of the conduct of the election petitioner 
amounting to an act of non-prosecution of ihe election petition an implied withdrawal 
cannot be considered valid and permissible. As emphasised by the Supreme Court in 
the observations extracted above this Court can only act strictly in accordance with the 
provisions and cannot invoke and exercise powers not specifically conferred by the 
statutes. 

Apart from the general principles the case-law also goes against the petitioner. 

In Heer Singh and others y. Veerka and another ( 2 ) a Bench of this Court summed 
up the position as follows : — 

“In our opinion these provisions (referring to ss. 109 & 110) would have come 
into play only if the election petition were to be withdrawn from the 
Tribunal and the withdrawal was granted but in the present case the election 
petition was never sought to be withdrawn at any stage. Permission to 
withdrawn the election petition was never asked for much-less it was given 
in the present case. Consequently, the provisions of section I10(3)(c) were 
never, and could not be, attracted, and, therefore, the petitioners were not 
entitled to come before the Tribunal in anv case." 

In Heer Singh v. Veerka ( a ) a few voters of the constituency sought leave to appeal 
to the High Court after the dismissal of the election petition alleging that the election- 
petitioner had colluded with the respondents and they further relied upon the fact that 
the Tribunal had also recorded a finding to that effect. The Bench of this Court refused 
permission to those voters to file an appeal, The learned counsel for the applicant sub- 
mitted that in Heer Singh v. Veerka the voters did not make any application during the 
trial stage and, therefore, the facts of that case are distinguishable and the principle of 
the case cannot be applied to the present case. It will be pertinent to observe that the 
Bench in Heer Singh v, Veerka ( s ) examined the matter exhaustively and after such 
examination stated the principles in general and wide terms, and bearing in mind the 
language of the relevant provisions, I entirely agree with the principle stated widely and 
unhesitatingly hold that the principles in that case should apply to the present case in 
spite of the apparent differences in the facts of the two cases. 

In another decision of this Court Ganpat Singh v. Brijmohanlal Sharma ( :l ) a Bench 
of this Court stated as follows: — 

“It has been held by this Court in the case of Heer Singh v, Veerka, MR 1958 
Raj. 181, that the provisions of ss. 108 to 110 came into play only if the 
election petition is withdrawn and the withdrawal is granted. Wo respect- 
fully agree with that view.” 

“Learned counsel has argued that in this case though there was no application for 
withdrawing the election petition yet the petitioner Shri Kalyansingh was 
withdrawing from the case by a baclk door and this mu9t be taken to be 
a case of withdrawal. There is much difference between withdrawing an 
election petition and in not conducting an election petition.” 

The facts of this case even though they may not be treated as identical with the facts 
of the present case, clearly resemble the facts of the present case and a few minor 
variation in the facts pointed out by the learned counsel cannot be considered sufficient 
to exclude the applicability of the principle of the case to the present case. 

Recently after the amendment of the Representation of the People Act in 1966 by Act 
No. 47 of 1966 sections 109 and 110 came up for interpretation before a Full Bench of 
the Punjab High Court in legal Kishore S/o. T.al Chand v. Doctor Baldev Parkash ( 4 ) 
in connection with the controversy over the discretion of the High Court in the matter 
of refusing leave to withdraw election petition and the High Court’s competance to dismiss 
the election petition in default. Grover J. as he then was, in his concurring opinion, 
made observations pointing out that the Court cannot successfully Prevent the petitioner 

(2) I.L.R. (1958) 8 Rajasthan 380. 

(8) A.T.R. 1959 Rajasthan 114, 

(*) A.T.R. 1968 Punjab 152. 



Sec. 3 ( ii) J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 4625 


from circumventing the provisions relating to the withdrawal of the election petition by 
choosing to absent or by omitting to produde or examine witnesses. The observations 
indicate that in case a petitioner does not present an application for withdrawal but 
merely omits to produce evidence, the provisions of sections 109 and 110 of the Act 
cannot be invoked. 

In Kesharilal Kavi and another v. Narain Prakash and others ( B ) I expressed my 
respectful agreement with the opinion expressed by Grover J, as he then was. 

The petitioner’s counsel could not offer any successful answer to the submissions made 
on behalf of the respondent No, 1 on the basis of the case-law cited above. It was only 
generally contended that in the election petition contest is not only between election peti- 
tioner and the respondent but is between the respondent and the entire constituency and 
that the election petition should not be permitted to bp brought to immature termination. 
Such observations very appropriate in the context of the facts of the particular cases 
cannot be permitted to warrant an inference that even though the statutory requirements 
of sections 109 and 110 are not fulfilled yet this Court should take action under sections 
109 and 110 of the Act. Had the applicant Onkar Singh taken action under section 86 
of the Act and become a party, it would have been open to him to lead evidence in 
support of the election petition but at this stage he cannot be heard to say that the non- 
prosecution by the original petitioner Shri Karan Singh be treated as an act amounting 
to withdrawal of the election petition so as to entitle him to be substituted as a petitioner. 
The application is, therefore, not maintainable and is dismissed. 

The allegations in the election petition remain wholly unsubstantiated as neither the 
election petitioner nor the respondent No, 2, who sought an opportunity to lead evidence, 
led any evidence. The election petition is also dismissed. In the peculiar circumstances 
of the case there will be no order as to costs. 

The substance of the above order shall be communicated forthwith to the Election 
Commission and the Speaker of the Lok Sabha. An authenticated copy of this judgment 
shall be sent to the Election Commission as soon as it is prepared. 

Sd. I.. N. Chhanoani. 

[No. 82/14/67(RJ).] 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 20th September 1968 

S.O. 3531. — In the Election Commission of India Order No, BR-HP/34/67(42), dated 
the 15lh July, 1968, made under the section 10A of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951, bearing S.O. 2703 and appearing on pp. 3594-3595 in the Gazette of India, Part II, 
section 3(ii), dated the 3rd August, 1968, the name and address of the candidate may be 
corrected to read as “Shri Jayanti Singh Rntbaur of Lohanipur. P.O. Kadam Kuawan, 
District Patna (Bihar)", 

[No. BR-HP/34/67.] 
By Order, 

A. N. SEN, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 24th September 1968 

S.O. 3532. — In exercise of the powers conferred by proviso to Article 309 of the 
Constitution, the President hereby directs that the Lt, Governors of Delhi. Himachal 
Pradesh and Pondicherry and Chief Commissioners of Manipur and Tripura shall exercise 
the power to make rules in regard to the following matters, namely: — 

(i) the method of recruitment to the Central Civil Services and posts class I under 

their Administrative Control in connection with the affairs of the Union 
Territory concerned: 

(ii) the qualifications necessary for appointment to such services and posts; and 

(iii) the conditions of service of persons appointed to such services and posts for the 

purposes of probation, confirmation, seniority and promotion; 


(5) Civil Misc. Restoration Application No. 93 of 1967 decided by Rajasthan High 
Court on 19th April, 1968. 



4626 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20 , 1890 [Part II— 


2. Any recruitment rules, including any rule relating to probation, confirmation, 
seniority and promotion, made in pursuance of this direction shall be subject to previous 
consultation with the Union Public Service Commission. 

3. Noihing contained in this notification shall apply to services and posts borne on a 
cadre common to two or more Union territories. 

[No. 24/78/68-DH(S).] 
B. C. PARIJA. Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 2 6th September 1968 

S.O. 3533. — In exercise of the powers conferred by tho Proviso to Article 309 of the 
Constitution of India the President is pleased to mate the following rules further to 
amend the Manipur Employees (Revision of Pay) Rules, 1966 namely: — 

fi) These rules may be called the Manipur Employees (Revision of Pay) Amend- 
ment Rules, 1968. 

fii) These shall come into force with effect from 1st April, 1964, 

In the Manipur Employees (Revision of Pay) Rules, 1966, below rule No. 10, the 
following shall be inserted : — 

Provided further that in the case of a Government servant who was in the existing 
scale with biennial rate of increment, the next increment shall be granted 
to him in the revised scale on the date It would have been admissible to 
him had the rate of increment been annual. 

[No. 1/16/65-HMT.l 


Corrigendum 

New Delhi, the 2 6th September 1968 

Subjfct. — Manipur Employees ( Revision of Pay ) Rules, 1966 Corrigendum to. 

S.O. 3534. — Please read FR 26(bXU) for FR 26(b)(b) occurring in Note (ii) below 
Rule 9(3) of Manipur Employees (Revision of Pay) Rules, 1966. 

[No. 1/16/65-HMT.J 
R. C. JAIN, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 28 th September 1968 

S.O. 3535. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 492 of 
the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898), the Central Government hereby 
appoints Shri P. P. Khambatta, Advocate, Bombay as a Public Prosecutor for the conduct 
of case, R. C. No. 2/66/FS.II against Shri Anil Kumar Choksi and others in the original, 
appellate and revisional courts in tho State of Maharashtra. 


[No. 225/46/68-AVD.TI.] 
A. P. VEERA RAGHAVAN, Dy. Secy. 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 5th October 1968 

S.O. 3536. — Whereas an application has been made to the Central Government 

within the period specified in sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph 4 of the Official Trustee, 

Bombay (Reorganisation) Order, 1963, by the Official Trustee, Gujarat State, for the 

transfer to it of all the properties subject to the Trusts specified in the Schedule annexed 
hereto and which now vest in the Official Trustee, Maharashtra State; 

Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-paragraph (2) of 

paragraph 4 of the Official Trustee, Bombay (Reorganisation) Order, 1963, the Central 



Sec. 3fiiJ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 4627 


Government hereby directs that the whole of the aforesaid properties shall, with effect 
from the 15th day of October, 1968, cease to be vested in the Official Trustee, Maharashtra 
State and be vested in the Official Trustee, Gujarat State- 

The Schedule 

1. Nathibal Shankerlal Harichand. 

2. R, K. Nariman A/C.I. 

3. B. K. Nariman. 


[No. F.8/1/67-SR.] 
K. R. PRABHU, Jt. Secy. 


f*35T 

fwr, 4 faFTC 196 8 

sfu 3537. — rr^ spfgm wfsrTrft tt yr~r) wfarfim 

1948 "ft triTJ 2 sff TT-£rm (t) T tFTTIT, T-T TfWTC It^rt RiTrfPT T Of . rriTfiFT 
»I«TrfT (ftiTT) T ftf ^0 tTTfo trfj'o tjff, Tt^FNP T> fRTF*, STWtTT STTT5T rfsP, 
flfTOrf TT TFT T’ftr TT ilfsPTT £ | 

[*T° zt° 4330/1/68-] 
To 3FTT TlffiT (T^T) I 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 17th September 1968 

3.0. 3538.— In pursuance of clause (a) of Section 2 of the Diplomatic & Consular 
Officers (Oaths and Fees) Act, 1948, the Central Government hereby authorise Shri M. K. 
Malik, Assistant in the Consulate of India, Khorramshahr, to perform the duties of a 
Consular Agent during the period from 17th April 1968 to 16th June, 1968. 

[No. T.4330/1/68.J 

S. K. CHATTERJEE, Under Secy. (Consular). 


CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECT TAXES 

CORRIGENDUM 

Income-Tax 

New Delhi, the 21st September 196B 

S.O. 3539. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 122 of 
the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) and of all other powers enabling it in that behalf, 
the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby directs that for the words and figures "This noti- 
fication shall take effect from 15th January, 1968" appearing in their notification S.O. 
2712 No. 62 (F. No. 50/12/68-ITJ), dated the 12th July, 1968 at pages 3600-3601 of Part 
II section 3(li) of the Gazette of India dated 3rd August, 1968 the following words and 
figures shall be substituted, namely: — 

This notification shall take effect from the 16 ih September, 1968. 

[No. 85 (F. No. 50/12/68-ITJ).] 
S. V. SUBBA RAO, Under Secy. 




4628 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20 , 189Q [PahjtII— 


CENTRAL BOARD OF EXCISE AND CUSTOMS 

CUSTOMB 

New Delhi, the 12th October 1968 

S.O. 3540. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 9 of the Customs Act, 1962 
(52 of 1962), and in supersession of the notification of the Government of India in the 
Central Board of Excise and Customs No, S.O. 2144 dated the 15th June, 1968, Part II, 
Section, 3 Sub-seection (ii) at page 3041, the Central Board of Excise and Customs 
hereby declare village Chinchwad in the Havelll Taluka of Poona district In the State 
of Maharashtra to be a warehousing station, 

[No, 139/68-Customs/F. No. 3/21/68-Cus.VI].] 
M. S. SUBRAMANYAM, Under Secy. 


COLLECTORATE OF CENTRAL EXCISEt CALCUTTA & ORISSA 

Central Excises 
Calcutta, the 26th August 1968 

S.O. 3541. — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by rule 5 of the Central Excise 
Officers of and above the rank of a Superintendent of Central Excise to exercise, in their 
respective jurisdiction in the Collectoratc of Central Excise, Calcutta & Orissa, the powers 
of Collector under Rule 56A(4) of the Central Excise Rules, 1944. 

[No. 4/1968 ] 
N. MOOKHERJEE, Collector. 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE, BARODA 


Central Excises 

Baroda, the 6th September 1968 

8.0. 3542. — This Collectorate Notification No. 10/68, Issued under letter No. IV/16- 
14/MP/68, dated 23rd May, 1968 is heroby cancelled. 

[No. 12/68.] 
L, M. KAUL, Collector. 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE M.P. & VIDAREHA 

Central Excises 

Nagpur, the I8t h September 1968 

S.O. 3543 . — In exercise of the powers cinferredupon me under Rule 5 of the Central Excise 
Rules r<54t, I hereby empower the Cmtral Excise Officers specified in column 2 of the sub- 
joined table to exercise within their iudsdict'on the powers of the “Collector” under the Central 
Excise R iles enumerated in column 1 thereof subject to the limitations set out In column 3 of the 

sold table. 

Table 


Central Exo : se 
Rules 

Rank of Officer 

Limitations, if any 


I 

2 

3 


56-A (2) 

Assistant Collector 

To grsn' pormiss'on to avail of procedure of 
proforma credit under Rule 56-A. 

56-A (4) 

Of and above the rank of Super- 
intendent 

To the extent of powers of 
delegated to them. 

adjudication 


2 . This rioenedes the C ’Ibctorate N itification No, 1/65-Central Excise, dated 22-1-65 
issued under this office endorsement C. No. IV(.i6)8-i/ 65-CX, dated 22-1-65. 

F. No. V(a)7-i/64 CXI/ [No. 6/1968 


VIPIN MANEKLAL, Collector. 





SBC. 3 (11)3 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 4629 

OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE t POONA 

Central Excises 
Poona, the 19th September, 1968 

S.O. 3544.— In exercise of powers vested in me under Rule 5 of the Central Excise 
Rules, 1944, I empower all officers of and above the rank of “Superintendent" in the 
Poona Central Excise Collectorntc to exercise within their iurisdiction their owers of the 
Collector under sub-rule (4) of Rule 56-A of the Central Excise Rules, 1944. 

(F. No. VGN(30)46/Tech.A/68.). 

[No. CER 8/68.] 
D. N. LAL, Collector. 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE : DELHI 

Central Exciseb 
New Delhi, the 21st September 1968 

S.O. 3545 -Tn pursuance of Rule 5 of the Central Excise Rules, 1944, T, Collector 

•of Central Excise, Delhi, hereby authorise the Central Excise Officers of Central Excise 
Collectorate, Delhi, of and above the ranks mentioned in column 2 of the table given 
below, to exercise within their respective jurisdictions, the powers of the Collector under 
the Central Excise Rules mentioned in column 3 of the table, subject to the limitations 
set out in column 4 thereof:— 


S. Rank of 

No. Officers 

Central Excise 

Rules 

Limitations, if any 

1 2 

3 

4 

1 Superintendent 

96 ZH(i) 

To accept first A. S. P. 
application for full period 
for which special proce- 
dure can be availed of. 

2 Assistant Collector 

96ZH(2) 

To accept first A. S- P. 
application for a period 
le SB than the prescribed 
period. 

3 Superintendent 

96ZH(4) 

To accept rcnwal applica- 
tions in form A. S. P. 
within the prescribed 
time limit. 

4 Adjudicating Officer s 

96ZL(i) 
to (in') 

To demand duty, to confis- 
cate goods and to impose 
penalty in accordance with 
their limits of adjudica- 
tion powers. 

(•C. No. IV(8)2CE/68.) 


[No. 7/68] 


S.O. 3546.— In pursuance of Rule 5 of the Central Excise Rules, 1944, I, Collector 
of Central Exdse, Delhi, hereby authorise the Central Excise Officers of and above the 
rank of Superintendents of the Central Excise Collectorate, Delhi, to exercise within their 
respective jurisdictions, the powers of the Collector under Rule 56-A(4) of the Central 
Excise Rules,. 1944, 

2. This Collectorate Notification No. ICE/65, dated 6th February, 1965 shall be 
treated as modified to the above extent. 

(C. No. TV(8)2CF/68.). 


[No. 8/68.] 
R. PRASAD, Collector. 



463o the GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 [Part II— 


THE MYSORE CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE i BANGALORE 

Customs 

Mangalore, the 23rd September 1968 

S.O. 3547. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 8 of the Customs Act,. 
1962 and in supersession of all the previous notifications and declarations on the subject 
in so far as they relate to the Port of Mangalore, I, M, C. Das, the Collector of Customs, 
Mysore at Bangalore hereby approve the places at the Port of Mangalore specified in the 
Table appended hereto, for the unloading or loading of goods as specified in Columns 5 
and 6 thereof. 



TABr.fi 


Name of the Por$ 

No. of 
Wharf 

Name of Owner 

Limits of the Wharf 

Particulars of classes The manner of dealing 
of goods to be dealt with them 

with 

I 

2 

3 

4 

5 6 

Mangalore 

I 

The Commonwealth Tile 
Factory, Jeppoo. 

The foreshore opposite the Commonwealth Tile 
Factory at Jeppoo, length 612/ inclusive of R 
wooden baffle measuring 130/ E-Railway line, 
W : Vacant foreshore, N : Factory, S — »N. River. 

Firewood & Clay Unloading. 

Tiles & Ridges, Loading 

Bricks. 

Mangalore 

2 

Mangalore Port Trust 

Jeppoo Ferry Wharf measuring 100 / east vacant 
foreshore ; West Whafr No. 3, South: N Jtravati 
River ;North : T.S. No. 819. 

Hay, Sand & Bricks, Unloading and load- 
by canoes only in the mg of Inland mer- 
backwaters. chandise only. 

Mangalore 

3 

M/s. J.H. Morgan & 

Sons. 

Tne foreshore measuring 434/E : Jeppoo Ferry-, 
W-Vimc Foreshore, S. N. River, N-TS 
Nos. 794 and 818, including Jetty 90 ft. 

Firewood clay, Tiles, Unloading, Loading. 
Ridges & Bricks. 

Manga lore 

4 

Cascia Tile Factory 

The foreshore in front of Cascia Tile Factory, 
Jeppoo measuring 398 ft. including ‘T’ Jetty mea- 
suring 21-1/2 ft. E- J.H. Morgan ; W-Bahadux 
Tile Works ; N - Factory S. N. River. 

Firewood and Clay Unloading, Loading. 
Tiles & Bricks, 

Ridges. 

Mangalore 

5 

Bahadur Tile Works 

Theforeshoreinfront ofthe Tile Factory at Jeppoo 
measuring 365 ft. E-Cascia Tile Factory Wharf 
No. 4, W-Creek ; N-Tile Factory ; S-N. 
River. 

Firewood and clay Unloading, Loading. 
Tiles & Bricks Ridg- 
es. 

Mangalon 

6 

M/s. M. Rebello 

Sons. 

The foreshore in front of the tile factory of Mis. M- 
Rebello & Sons at Bolar— Length : 583 ft. ; E: 
Creek; W : N. River; N: Tik Factory S: N. 
River. 

Firewood & Clay Til- Unloading Loading, 
es & Bricks Ridges. 

Mangalore 

7 

(Original 
wharf 
No. 8 
now in- 
cluded 

Mangalore Tile C5. 

The foreshore in front of tlx factory styled, the 
Mangalore Tile Co., at Bolar — Length 547 ft. 
including Jetty 17- 1/2 ft. divided by East : TS 
No, 784; W: Highland The Works; N: Tile 
Factory ; S : N. River. 

Firewood & Clay Unloading. 

TilesSc Bricks & Loading. 

Ridges. 


in No. 7) 




■Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 



Mangalore . 8 Highland Tile Works The foreshore opposite the The Factory of High Firewood & day. Unloading. 

Land Tile Works measuring North to South 83 ft. Tiles & Bricks and Loading. 
and East to West 243 ft. E : Mangalore The Co., Ridges. 

W : Sudarshana Tile Works, N: Tile Factory; 

S : River. 

Mangalare - 9 M/s. Sudarshan Tile The foreshore opposite the The Factory — Length Do. Do. 

Works 150 ft. inclusive of two jetties 23 ft. each — E: 

High Land Tile Factory ; W: Coronation Tile 
Works, N : Factory ; S : River. 

Mangaloie . 10 Coronation Tile Works . The foreshore in front of the The factory —Length : Do. Do. 

116 ft, with Jetty 25-1/2 ft. E: Sudarshan Tile 
Works; W : N. River & Tower drain ; N : Factory; 

S : River. 

Mangalore . 11 M/s. A -P. Matpadi Bros. The foreshore opposite the Tile Factory — Length: Firewood and day. Unloading. Loading 

198 ft. with Jerry 21ft.x15.ft; E: River & Town Tflcs& Bricks & 
drain; W:Creek;N: Factory; S : River. Ridges. 

Mangalore . 12 M/s.Rego& Sons The foreshore opposite the tile factory — Length Do. Do. 

142 ft. with jetty 27 ft. E: Portland licensed to 
Narsu Kotian; W: Jetty; N: Factory; S: River. 

Mangalore . 13 Corporation Tile Works The foreshore opposite the tile factory — Length Do. Do. 

227 ft. with jetty 20 ft. E : Vacant plot proposed 
for agricultural purpose ;W: River, N : Tile fac- 
tory; S : River. 

Mangalore . 14 M/s. Hameediah Tile The foreshore opposite the tile factory — length 339 Do, Do. 

Works. ft.; E: River; W: River & Pioneer Tile Works; 

N : Factory ; S : River. 

Mangalore • 15 M/s. Pioneer Tile Works The foreshore opposite the Tile Factory — length Do. Do. 

173 ft. with Jetty 8 ft. E: Hameediah Tile Works; 

W: River; N: A.B. Pinto & Sons, Oriental Tile 
Works; S: River. 

» 16 Battery Tile Works The foreshore opposite the Tile Factory— Length Do, Do. 

220 ft; E: Factory, W: River, N: factory; S: 

River. 

Mangalote 17 Oriental Tile Works The foreshore opposite the Tile Factory— Length Do, Do. 

438 ft. with Jetty 6 - 1/2 ft. E : Pioneer Tile Works; 

W: Rim; N: Kaaas Tik Works, S: Rim. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12 , 1968 /ASVINA 20 , 1890 '[Part II 


Multifile 

Mafigalo** 

Mangalore 


Mangalore 

Muplon 

Mangalore 


Mangalore 

Mangatoie 

Ifaplw 


tS Banara Til* Works 


19 M/s, Coelho Bros. 


30 Mangalore Port Trust 


21 M/s. Ethel Rodrigues 


M/s. Ethel Rodrigues 


The foreshore opposite the tile factory— Len^h 96- Firewood & Clay. Unloading, 
ft. East: Factory; We3t: River; North: Creek; Tiles, Ridges and Loading. 

South : Oriental Tile Works. Bricks. 

The foreshore opposite the tile factory— Length 273 Do. 

ft. with jetty 8-1/2 ft— E: Tile factory, W: River; Do. 

N: Drainages; S: Greek and river. 

The Marine Yard measuring 95 ft. North: to South, Jetty for non-dntiable Unloading and Load- 
Two wooden jetties aowned by Fisheries Depart* fish only. _ ing. 

meat for landing and shipping of Non-dutiable Coir, Salt, dutiable Unloading & loading. 
Fish only. fish fic dates. Govt. 

Jetties (1) 69 tii;&I 02 xrr/ (Eastto West) gunnies and erplo- 
80). sives, combustible 

(2) 1612/3x125 1/3 (17ft. wide 125-1/2 dangerous substanc- 
East to West). es and articles. 

W St S : Baticwaters: 

E & N: Public road. 

The foreshore opposite TS No. 49 and 50 of Man- Timber & firewood. Unloading and load- 
galare Thota village measuring 388 ft. East Patta ing. 

Land, West River, North: T.S. No. 10B and Mu- 
nicipal latrine, So nh Tort Trust land and passage. 

(Now included in Whard No. 21). 


23 M/s. S.C. Abdul Rahim- 
an & Koragappa. 


23 Indian National Tile 
Works. 


The foreshore in front of the godown, in TS No. 8 
of MU igalore Thota village — length 102 ft.; E: 
Godown in TS No. 8; W: Gtrpur River; N. W: 
No. 25 ; S : Port land licensed to Boat Fund As- 
sociation. 


The foreshore opposite the tile factory— Length 152 
ft. — E: TNT Works WiGurpur River jN: Creek; 
S: Creek and Bamboo Basin- 


Free goods from 
Customs Ports such 
as fish salted or un- 
salted, fish manure, 
fish oil, mats and coir 
for packing the same. 


Firewood, Coal clay 
Tiles & bricks Ridges 


Unloading and load 
ing after special per- 
mission has been ob- 
tained in each case 
provided that offen- 
sive goods are remov- 
ed immediately after 
landing and not stor- 
ed near occupied 
house and that proper 
care is exercised to 
keep the place clean 
Unloading. 

Loading. 


24 Joe Tile Works 

25 Taj Tile Works 


The foreshore opposite the tile factory — length 64 ft. Firewood & Clay Til- 
El Tile Factory ; W: River; N: Creek; S: Creek es, ridges and Bricks 
The foreshore opposite the tile Factory— Length 173 Firewood, Coal and 
ft. with Jetty 12 ft, E: Factory; W: River, N: day. 

Albuquerque & Sons and Creek; Si Creek and Joe Tiles, bricks and ridg 
Tile Works. es. 


Un loading. 
Loading. 

Unloading. 

Leading , 


I) 


Sec. 3(E)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 



Mangalore 

Mangaolre 

Mangalore 

Mangalore 

Mangalore 

Mangalore 


M/s. A, Albuquerque & 
Sons. 


The foreshore opposite the tik factory — Length 490 Firewood , clay Coal. Unloading. 


ft. with Jetty 25 ft — E : Factory; W : River; N : 
Channel ; S: Creek. 


Tiles, bricks and ridg- 
es. 


Loading. 


27 

(Old No. 
29) 


Mangalore Port Trust . The Government Timber Depot to the South of Government Timber, Unloading. 


Railway Goods Station measuring about 220 ft. 
North to South, bounded on the north by the 
Railway Goods Station, east by a public road, 
West by the river and South by M/s. Albuquerque 
and Sons Tile Works. 


Firewood 

Bamboo. 


28 

(Old 30) 


29 

(Old 31) 


30 Mangalore Port Trust 
(Old 32) 


3i 

(Old 33) 


The quay in front of the Railway Goods shed mea- 
suring 1106 ft. north to south inclusive of three 
wooden jetties of4oftxi3 ft. each and bounded on 
the north by No. 29 and separated from the same 
by a barricade, on the South by Govt. Forest Tim- 
ber basin (wharf No. 27), on the East by Railway 
Goodshed yard and on the West by Gurpur riyer. 


Free goods including Unloading and load - 
bamboo, timber,'fish ing. 

& salt and local mer- 
chandise from 


Foodgrains and Fer- 
tilisers. 


Unloading 


The quay running north to south measuring 358ft. Free goods 
bounded on the south by whaft No. 28 and separ- Timber and 
ated from the same by a barricade, on the north combustible 
by the southern bank of a town drain, on the east _ 

by Caltex installation, and on the West by Gurpur Coffee, Foo 
river. Fertilisers. 


Timber and other Loading and unioad- 
combustible goods. ing subject to immedi- 
ate removal. 

Coffee, Foodgrain& Loading. 

Fertilisers, Unloading. 


Theqay running north to south measuring48i ft. 
bounded on the south by Wharf No. 29 and sep- 
arated from the same by the southern bank of 
the town drain, on the north by wharf No. 31 and 
separated from the same by Mangalore Port 
Trust Compound wall, on the east by Esso and 
Burmah Shell Oilinstallationsand on the west 
by Gurpur River. 

The quarry running north to outh measuring 1031 
ft. bounded on the sonth by 'Wharf No. 30 and 
separated from the same by Mangalore Port 
Trust Compound Wall, on the north by the Man- 
galore Port Trust Department Dry Dock Wall, 
the east by Public road and on the west by Gts^- 
pur river. 


Dutiable goods. Unloading and load- 
Free Goods. ing. 

U iloading and load- 
Combustible and ing 
infla mable goods in- U iloading only sub- 


duding 1 petroleum. 


Dutiable goods. Unloading and load- 
ing. 

Foodgrains, Fertiliser Unloading 
and other Govern- 
ment cargoes. 


ject to immediate re- 
moval- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 [Part II- 


Mangalore 

32 

(Old 34) 

Do. 

The quay in front of the Custom] House and Port Dutiable goods. 
Officeextending 456 ft. inclusive of passenger Jetty 
and enclosed by the North and South Customs Free goods. 

Walls. Passengers. 

Unloading and load- 
ng. 

Do. 

Embarkation and dis- 
embarkation. 

Mangalore 

33 

(Old 35) 

Mangalore Port Trust 

The quay running North to South measuring 724 Duitable goods- 
ft. bounded on the South by North Customs Wall 
on the North by Wharf No. 34, and separated Free goods except 
from the same by a survey stone, on the east by wood and patroleum 
the Mangalore Port Trust Wharf and on the west products . 
by Gurpur River. 

Unloading and loading 

Unloading and load" 
inng. 

Mangalore 

34 

(Old 36) 

Do. 

The quay running North to gouth measuring 240 Duitable goods, 

ft. bounded on the south by Wharf No. 33 and 

separated from, the same by a survey stone, on the Free goods inclusive 
North and West by river Gurpur, and on the of wood and other 
East by Mangalore Port Trust Wharf road. combustible mat- 

erials except pat- 
roleum products. 

Unloading and load- 
ing. 

Do. 

Mangalore 

35 

K. Dayananda Rao 

The foreshore measuring 75 ft. in front of saw mills. Timber 

E: Saw Mills, W: River, N : Timber basin of 

Ramachandra Naik, S: Vacant river basin. 

Do. 

Mangalore 

36 

Ahamed Abdul Rahiman 

The foreshore measuring 89 ft. in front of lime kiln Firewood and chu- 
with Jetty 6 ft— E: lime kiln, W: River, N: Vacant nam shells. 
Portland, S: R. Naik’s timber basin. 

Do. 

Mangalore 

•- 37 

Sujilkar’s Tile Works 

The foreshore to the North and West of the tile fact- Firewood, clay Tiles 
ory— length 256 ft. East to West and 354 ft., & bricks ridges. 
North to South E: Tile factory, W: River Gur- 
pur N : Creek, S: Town Br. in. 

Unloading and 
Loading. 

Mangalore 

3 

'The Common wealth Tile 
Factory* Kodroli. 

The foreshore to the Southand est Wof the tile factory Firewood and clay, 
measruing 175 ft. East to West and 414 ft. from Tiles and bricks and 
North to South with 4 jetties(i) 14I ftxi9j ft ridges. 

(2) 2ii ft. x 14 i ft, (3) I7ft.xi 4i ft. (4) 21ft. 
xi4-3/4ft. — E: Tile factory, W: River, Nr jairam 

Tile Works, S: Creek. 

Unloading and 
Loading. 

Mangalore 

39 

Jairam Tile Works 

The foreshore in front of the tile factory — length Firewood and Clay. 
245 ft. separated in the middle by 99 ft of land Tiles bricks and ridges, 
licensed to Sri Veakataraman temple^ E : Factory 

W: River, N: Portland of M.S. Nayak, S: 

Jonimo a wealth Tile Factory. 

Unloading and 

. Loading. 


SEC. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 1.2, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 4635 



I 


2 

3 

4 

5 6 

Mangalore 


40 

Canara Chernim! Indus- 
tries. (M-S. Kayak). 

Foreshore in front of TS Not. 1352, 1353&1354, 
Casba Bazar Village and length— 188 ft., E: TS 
Nos. 1352, 1353, 1354 — W: River, N: Satyanara- 
yan Tfle Works, S; Jairam Tile Works. 

Timber Unloading and loa 

ing. 

Mangalore 

* 

41 

Satyanarayan Tfle Works 
CP) Ltd. 

The foreshore in front of tile factory length : 197 ft. 
E: Factory, W: River, N: River, S: Licensed to 
Manel S. Nayak, 

Firewood and Clay. Unloading. 

Tiles, ridges and Loading, 
bricks. 

Mangalore 


42 

Union Tile Works 

The foreshore in front of rile factory Length: 410 ft. 
E : Factory; W : River, N : River, S : Road. 

Firewood & Clay. Unloading. 

Tiles, bricks and rid- Loading, 
ges. 

— Not approved as no 

loading or unloading 
desired at present. 

Mangalore 


43 

Snoor Rice Mills (ori- 
ginally of Kudpi Ananda 
da Rao). 

The foreshore in fro-’tofRice M'Q— Length :265ft. 
— E : Rice Mill, W : River, N : Portland, S : Port- 
land now used for stacking paddy rice etc. 

Mangalore 


44 

Sovereign Tile Works 

The foreshore in front of Tile Factory Length : 137 
ft. with jettv 21-1/2 ft., E: Sovereign Tfle Works, 
W : River, N : Imperial Tile Works, S : Portland 
licensed to Isarn Hengsu, 

Firewood and clay. Unloading. 

Tiles, bricks and nd- Loading, 
ges. 

Mangalore 

* 

45 

Imperial Tile Works 

The foreshore in front of the tile factory— Length: 
345 ft., E: Factory, W: River, North: Town 
Drain, S: Sovereign Tfle Works. 

Do. Do. 

Mangalore 

‘ 

46 

National Tile Works 

The foreshore in front of the tile factory — Length: 
141 ft. E: Factory, W: River, S: Town Drain, Nf 
M. Rebello & Sons. 

Do. Do. 

Mangalore 


47 

M/s. M. Rebello & Sons The foreshore in front of the tile factory — Length: 
(Outside Portland) 180 ft. — E: Factory, W: River, N: Portland, S: 

National Tile Factory. 

Do. Do. 

Mangalore 


48 

Standard Tile Co. 

The foreshore opposite the Standard TOe Co., 
Gopalakrishna Rice and Flour Mills measuring 
431 ft. from East to West and 308 ft. from North 
to South, E: Factory, W : River, N: Pattaland, S: 
Foreshore of Hindu Cremation ground. 

Do. Do. 

jyjWgatare 


49 

Asaok TOes & Saw Mills 

The foreshore in front of AshokTfle and Saw Mills— Do. Do. 

Length : 200 ft, from East to West— E: Factory 

W : Portland and River, N : Vacant Portland—' 

S: Channel. 


4636 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12 , 1968 /ASVINA 20 , 1890 LPartII- 



Muifalere 


Mangalore 


Mangalore 

Mangalore 


Mangalore > 


j^angalore 


Mangalore 


Mangalore 

Mangalore . 


50 M/a. Pornpei Tile Works , 
Baiocr. Mangalore-g, 
owner Mr, F.X.D. Pin 10. 


The foreshore opposite the Pompai Tile Works, Tiles and ridges, 
measuring 132 it. inclusive of a jetty measuring 
16 ft.x24. bounded by north Gurptr River, on 
the south by road, on the east S. No, 154-1/3 
West S. No. 891 4A1 (outside the Port limits). 


ji Sri Thimmappa Lime Foreshore of his land measuring 50 ft. boundaries Lime Shells. 
Merchand, Baloor, by Pinto's Tile Factory on the west and river chan - 

Mangalore. nel on the east (outside the port limits). 


52 Smt. B. Vedavathi, Lime 
Manufacturer, Baloor, 
Mangalore-3. 


Foreshore of the land S. No. 81/2, measuring X07 ft x 
bounded by S. No. 81/1 on the North and on the 
the South by 82/5 (outside the Port limits). 


53 Sri. P. Ramappa Moolya, The foreshore measuring 100 ft. of the land owned 


Do. 


Do. 


Leading after getting 
wri t t en permission 
from the Officer 
Customs i/c. Cistern 
House on each occa- 
sion. 

Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Baloor, Mangalore-3. 


54 Mangalore Port Trust 


55 Do- 


55 M/s. Pinto Launch Ser- 
vice, Mangalore. 


by Smt. Chandrama, including a jetty measuring 
35ft. x 6 ft. bounded on the South by Sri Gurivap- 
pa Motley’s land and on the North by Mysore 
Timber Mills (outside the Port limits). 

Apiece of land measuring a length of 800 ft. on sand- 
spit to the east of Bokkapatna Fish Curing Yard 
and situated opposite Suithan Battery. 


Fish manure and Unloading & Loading. 
Bones and free salted 
fish. 


A piece of the sandspit measruing 825 ft. northern- Fish manure, Chu- Unloading dr loading, 
wards from to athern limi ts of the Mangalore Fish nam shells and salted 
Curing Yard. fish. 


Do, The S.K, Dist. Co-op. 
Fish Marketing Federa- 
tion Ltd. 

56 Mangalore Port Trust. 


L shaped wooden jetty 77fts6 ft. (10- 1/2 at east edge 
on the eastern beach of Thota village sandspit 
between fisheries Higher Elementary School and 
S.K. Co-operative Marketing (Fish) Federation 
Ltd., Service Station. 

T shapped wooden jetty measuring 90,131 toft(6feet 
wide constructed on wharf No. 55). 


Embarkation and dis" 
embrakation of ferry 
passengers. 


For the movement of 
Federation staff— for 
servicing the launch es. 


A portico of the sandspit cm the Ullal foreshore 
measuring 600 ft. in length northwards from 
southern boundary of Mangalore Port Trust 

tanH limi ts 


Chunam shells 


Unloading. 


* 


Sec. 3 (it)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12 , 1968 /ASVINA 20 , 1890 




Mangalore 


57 UllalTtle Works, 

O iyner : Coelho Bros. 


Tne foreshore outside the port limits measuring 175 Tile, Clay & Limes Loading, unloading 
ft. in front of Ullal Tile Works. after getting per- 

mission on each 
occcasion from Officer 
of Customs i/c. 
Customs House, 
Mangalore. 


[G, No. VHI/ 48 / 65 / 67 -CUS.] 

M. C. DAS, 
Collector. 


4638 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 [Part ! I 



Sec. 3 (il) J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 4639, 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 

New Delhi, the 26 th September 1088 

S.O. 3548. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (i) of sub-section (3) of 
section 4 of the Central Silk. Board Act, 1968 (61 of 1948), the Central Government 
hereby nominates the Director, State Purchasing Organisation and Ex-officio Deputy Secre- 
tary to the Government of Orissa, Industries Department, Bhubaneswar to be a member 
of the Central Silk Board in place of Shri J. P. Das and makes the following further 
amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce 

S.O. 2260 dated the 28th June, 1968, namely:— 

In the said notification for the entry against serial number 29, the following entry 
shall be substituted, namely : — 

"29. Director of State Purchasing Organisation and Ex-offic.io Deputy Secretary to 
the Government of Orissa, Industries Department, Bhubaneswar.” 

[No. F.22/1/67-Tcx(F).] : 

New Delhi, the 28 th September 1008 

S.O. 3549. — The Government of Madhya Pradesh having nominated Shri Devi Sahay. 
Secretary to the Government of Madhya Pradesh, Industries and Commerce Department, 
Bhopal, to be a member of the Central Silk Board under clause (g) of sub-section (3) of 
sectiou 4 of the Central Silk Board Act, 1948 (61 of 1948) in place of Shri Devindarnath, 
the Central Government hereby makes the following further amendment in the notification 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce No. 1872 dated tho 10th April, 
1967, namely : — 

In the said notification, for the entry against serial number 15, the following entry 
shall be substituted, namely : — - 

“15. Shri Devi Sahay, Secretary to the Government of Madhya Pradesh, Commerce 
& Industries Department, Bhopal." 

[No, F.22/ 1/ 67-Tex(F) .[ 
DAULAT RAM, Under Secy. 

New Delhi, the 21th September 1 968 

S.O. 3550. — Tn exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Export (Quality 
Control and Inspection) Act, 1963 (22 of 1963), the Central Government hereby directs 
that the following further amendments shall be made in the notification of the Govern- 
ment of India in the Ministry of Commerce No. S.O. 3605, dated the 30th December, 1963, 
namely :— 

In the said notification for items 11, 12 and 14, the following items shall respectively 
be substituted, namely : — 

“11. Shri T. Abdul Wahid, C/o Leather Export Promotion Council. Marble Hal), 
Vepery Road, Madras.”; 

“12. Shri K. Ramamurthy, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Food, Agriculture, Com- 
munity Development and Cooperation, Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi.”; 

“14. Dr. A Sarup, Dr. Sarup's Pest Control Private Ltd., Calcutta.”. 

[No. 30(38)Exp.Insp/66.] 
P. V. RAMASWAMY, Under Secy. . 


Rubber Control 

New Delhi, the 28 th September 1968 

S.O. 3551.— In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (c) of sub-section (3) of 
scctiou 4, and sub-section (2) of section 5, of the Rubber Act, 1947 (24 of 1947), read 
with sub-rule (3) of rule 3 and sub-rule (2) of rule 4 of the Rubber Rules, 1955, the 
Central Government hereby appoints on the recommendation of tho Government of Kerala, 
Shri K- Kantnakaran Nair, Managing Director, Plantation Corporation of Kerala f.td., 
Kottayam (Kerala), as a member of the Rubber Board with effect on and from the 28th 




4640 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASV1NA 20, 1890 [Part II— 


September, 1968 and upto the 21st February, 1971, in the vacancy caused by Shri 
S. Anantakrishnan, ceasing to be a member. 


[No. F.15(3)Plant(B)/67.] 
N. N. MALHAN. Under Secy. 


(Office of the Deputy Chief Controller of Imports and Exports) 

ORDER 

Kanpur, the 29 th August 1968 

S.O. 3552. — A licence No. P/SS/1582479, dated 22nd November, 1967 ot the value 
of Rs. 1,20,980/- for import of Zinc, Nickel & Tin was issued to M/s. United Auto Traders, 
Naurangabad, Lakhimpur-Kheri. 

Thereafter a Show Cause Notice No. Enf.I(84)/1968/KAN dated 18th April, 1968 was 
issued asking tnem to show cause within 1 5 days of the date of receipt of the notice as to 
why the said licence in their favour should not bo cancelled on the ground that it was 
obtained through fraudulent means, and that it would not serve the purpose for which 
it was issued, in terms of clause 9, sub-clause (cc) of the import (Control) Order, 1955 
dated 7th December, 1955 as amended. 

The above Show Cause Notice has been returned undelivered by the postal authorities 
with the remarks that the addressee never met. 

The undersigned has carefully examined the case and has come to (he conclusion that 
the party have no defence to urge and have avoided a reply. 

Having regard to what has been stated in the preceding paragraph, the undersigned 
is satisfied that the licence in question should be cancelled or otherwise rendered in effective. 
Therefore, the undersigned, in exercise of the powers vested in him under clause 9 sub- 
clause (cc) of the Imports (Control) Order, 1955 hereby cancel the licence No. P/SS/ 
1582479 dated 22nd November, 1967 for Rs. 1,20,980/- issued in favour of M/s, United 
.Auto Traders, Naurangabad, Lakhimpur-Kheri. 


[No. ENF.I( 84) / 1 968/KAN. 1 
SARDUL SINGH, 

Dy. Chief Controller of Imports & Exports. 


(Office of the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports) 

(Central Licensing: Area) 

CANCELLATION ORDER 
New Delhi, the 10th September, 1968 

S.O. 3553. — M/s. Kashi Prasad & Sons, Gopiganp, Varanasi were granted an import 
licence No. P/EP/2578650/C dated 4th April, 1968. They have applied for duplicate 
exchange control purpose copy of licence on the ground that the original Exchange Control 
Copy has been lost. It is further stated that original licence was not registered with any 
Custom House and not utilized. 

In support of this contention, the applicant has filed an affidavit. I am satisfied that 
the original Exchange Control Copy of licence No. P/EP/2578650/C dated 4th April, 1968 
has been lost and direct that a duplicate Exchange Control Copy of the licence should be 
issued to the applicant. The original Exchange Control purpose copy of the licence is 
cancelled, 

[No. Carpet- 1036/1 966/EPS-II/ SC.I V/CLA .] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 13th September 1968 

S.O. 3554. — -A licence No. P|SS[1610656|C, dated 30th March, 1968 of the value of 
Rs. 10,000/- for import of Stainless Steel Tubes and A.P, Sheets was issued to M/s. Medical 
Equipment (India), Old Ruper Road, Model Town, Man! Majra, Chandigarh (U.T.). 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 4641 


2. Thereafter, a show cause notice No. M-4/68/Enf/CLA/4779 dated 19th August, 
1968 was issued asking them to show cause within 15 days as to why the said licence in 
their favour should not be cancelled on the ground that the Central Government is satisfied 
that the licence will not serve the purpose for which it has been granted in terms of Clause 
9, sub-clause (cc). 

3. The said show cause notice sent to the firm has been received back undelivered with 
the remarks of the Postal authorities “Not found”. 

4. Having regard to what has been stated in the preceding paragraph, the undersigned 
is satisfied that the licence in question should be cancelled or otherwise rendered ineffective. 
Therefore, the undersigned; in exercise of the powers vested in him under Clause 9, sub- 
clause (cc) of the Imports (Control) Order, 1955 hereby cancel the licence No- P/SS/ 
1610656/C dated 30th March. 1968 for Rs. 10,000/- issued in favour of M/s. Medical 
Equipment (India), Old Ruper Road, Mode) Town, Mani Majra, Chandigarh (U.T.). 

[No. M-4/68/ENF/CLA/5910.] 
J. S. BEDI, 

Jt. Chief Controller of Imports & Exports. 


MINISTRY OF STEEL, MINES AND METALS 
(Department of Mines and Metals) 

New Delhi, the 25th September 1968 

S.O. 3555. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 13 of 
the Coal Mines (Conservation and Safety) Act, 1952 (12 of 1952), read with rule 20 of 
the Coal Mines (Conservation an'd Safety) Rules, 1954, and in supersession of the 
notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Steel, M'nes and Heavy 
Engineering (Department of Mines and Metals) No. S.O. 36. dated the 20h December, 
1963, the Central Government hereby constitutes with immediate effect, a Technical 
Advisory Committee (Mining), which shall consist of the following persons, namely;. — 

Chairman 

1. Chief Mining Engineer, Coal Board, Calcutta (nominated by Coal Board). 

Members 

2. Deputy Chief Inspector of Mines, Dhanbad (nominated by the Chief Inspector 

of Minos). 

3. Ghief Mining Adviser, Ministry of Railways, Railway Board, Dhanbad. 

4. Superintending Geologist. Geological Survey of India, Calcutta (nominee of 

Director, Geological Survey of India). 


Members representing Mining interests co-opted by the Board 

5. Area General Manager, National Coal Development Corporation Ltd-, Ranchi- 

6. Shri R. N. Sharma, Chief Mining Engineer, Tata Tron and Steel Co. Ltd., 

Jamadoba, (Dhanbad). 

7. Shri I. R. Sharma, Chief Mining Engineer, Karam Chand Thapar and Brothers 

(Private) Ltd., Bhowra (Dhanbad), 

8. A nominee of the Bengal Coal Co. 

9. Shri I. S- Grewal, General Manager. Raneegunge Coal Association Ltd., Kustore, 

Dhanbad. 

10. Shri O. H. Senior, M/s. Bird and Co., (Private) Ltd-, P.O. Sijua (Dhanbad). 

Shri N. C. Dash, Inspecting Officer, Coal Board, Dhanbad, will act as Secretary to 
the Committee. 


[No. C5-4(3)/67.) 


New Delhi, the 28th September 1968 

S.O. 3556. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 15 of 
the Coal Mines (Conservation and Safety) Act, 1952 (12 of 1952) read with rule 21 of the 
Coal Mines (Conservation and Safety) Rules, 1954, the Central Government hereby makes 
the following amendments to the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Steel, Mines and Metals (Department of Mines and Metals) No. S. O. 3989, dated the 



4643 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 [Part II- - 


28th October, 1967 relating to the reconstitution of the Advisory Committee on Stowing, 
namely : — 

In the said notification, for items 1, 2, 4 and 5 and the entries relating thereto, the 
following shall respectively be substituted, namely : — 

Chairman 

“J. The Chairman, Coal Board, Calcutta — (nominated by the Coal Board). 

Members 

2. The Chief Inspector of Mines or his nominee 

3. Shri R. Maulik, Vice-Chairman, Indian Mining Association, Calcutta. — Representa- 

tive of the Indian Mining Association. 

4. Shri B. R. Marwaha, Superintendent, Planning, Bengal Coal Co. Ltd., 8, Clive 

Row, Calcutta-1.” — Representalive of the Indian Mining Association. 

[No. CJ-4(2)/67.T 
A. SETHUMADHAVAN, Under .Secy. 


MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION & POWER 

New Delhi, the 21st September 1968 

S.O. 3557. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section (2) of 
section 79 of the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966 (31 of 1966), the Central Government 
hereby appoints Shri B. S. Bansal, Chief Engineer, Government of Haryana as a whole- 
time member of the Bhakra Management Board vice Shri I. S, Jain, with effect from the 
date Shri B. S. Bansal assumes charge of such memoer, and makes the following amend- 
ment in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Irrigation and 
Power, No. S.O. 3506, dated the 1st October, 1967, namely: 

In the said notification, for the existing entry against item 2, the following entry shall 
be substituted, namely : — 

“2. Shri B. S. Bansal, Chief Engineer, Government of Haryana”. 

[No. 7/7/68-B&B.] 
ff. PRASAD. Under Secy. 


r<NT.f fafp WW 

foreft, 21 fOTOTT, 1968 

TtQo Wto 3 558- — qTBTST 1966 ( I966TT 3l) WTO 79^ 

tETWTO ( 2) % SPJT (t) STO OTfT tflfawif Tl RTVi WW WOTTT 

WOT, OTW ^UTT'ffT ETWTT, Tt '‘.ft OOT % OTFT IT h PS -s I OTW 

W TTfWT OTOT, OT ^ ffflOT OTcfr | fOT Tt '“■fV OTW ^ 

ET 5r TnfWTT Ilk WOT ETTTT % fawf fWOT OTIOT Tt Wfa^OTI 

tfo ^Tfo Wo 4628 WlfFT 1 Wf^WT, 1967 % fOTffMOT WtflOT *POTt | OTfa — 

gWW wftr^OTT if, OT 2 BIOT % OTOT IT fOTTf%fiOT RfWOT 

OTf ifr 

“ 2 . ifro irjto ijot ^OTf°rr botot i" 

iTRo OTtff, OTT WpOT t) 



SEC. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 

New Delhi , the 24 th September 1908 

S.O. 3559. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 13 of the Inter-State 
Water Disputes Act, 1956 (33 of 1956), the Central Government, after consultation with 
the State Governments, hereby makes the following Rules to amend the Inter-State Water 
Disputes Rules, 1959, namely: — 

THE INTER-STATE WATER DISPUTES (AMENDMENT) RULES, 1968. 

These rules may be called the Inter-State Water Disputes (Amendment) Rules, 1968. 

2. For rule 6 of tho Inter-State Water Disputes Rules, 1959 (hereinafter referred to 
aa the said rules), the following rule shall be substituted, namely 

"6. Remuneration, allowances of fees.— Where the Chairman or any member of a 
Tribunal retires from service as a Judge of the Supreme Court or a High 
Court while proceedings of a Tribunal arc in progress, ho may be granted 
for the period he serves on the Tribunal, after retirement, such remunera- 
tion, allowances or fees as may be sanctioned by the Central Government 
in consultation with the Chief Justice of India. 

Where an assessor is not a salaried officer of the Central or a State Government, 
he may be granted such remuneration, allowances or fees as may be 
sanctioned by the Central Govemmeht in consultation with the Chairman 
of tho Tribunal”. 

3. In rule 7 of the said rules, for the words “Presiding Officer", the word “Chairman** 
shall be substituted. 

4. In the Annexure to the said rules, for the words "Presiding Officer", in the two 
places they occur, the word “Chairman" shall be substituted. 

[No. DW. n.32(30)/68.J 
BALESHWAR NATH, Jt. Secy. 

MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 21 st September 1968 

S.O. 3560.— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5(1) of the Cinematograph 
Act, 1952 and sub-rule (3) of rule 9 read with sub-rule (2) of rule 9 and sub-rule (3) of 
rule 8 of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1958, the Central Government hereby 
re-appoints Smt. Padma K. Desai after consultation with the Central Board of Film Censors, 
as a member of the Advisory Panel of the said Board at Bombay with immediate effect 

[No. F. ll/2/68-F(C).J 
H. B. KANSAL, Under Secy. 


2 1 fTTTT, 1968 

• S 5(T0 sr> 3561 — TfirfaiFT, 19 52 EfTTT 5( l) (#BT) 

faWTtT, 1 9 5 8 % fTTT 9 % TT fff’TF ( 2) 5ft" fwi S % TT fTT*T (3) % ifTT r tfeT 
9 tnfwi ( 3) titt frt tFf 'tFsttri ttFt T'-'t fir, emr 

ftvTT TFT Tit % RTTRl ff ffTFrit T^hT %o ^-irf ^ *l«fV T TTi Tit % TcTITffiTn: 
tUTT, TT fffiT % rRTT fd 7 T“FT fef r! 1 

[TTTT STITT 1 1/2/6 8 -rrvn ( FT' ) ] 





4044 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 [Part IT— 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 

New Delhi, the 25th September 1908 

8.0. 3562 — The Rajya Sabha having elected Shri Arjun Arora to be a member of the 
Council in pursuance of clause (k) of sub-section (2) of section 31 of the Institutes of 
Technology Act, 1961 (59 of 1961), the Central Government hereby makes the following 
amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the (late) Ministry of 
Scientific Research and Cultural Affairs No. 24-5/62-T.6 dated the 9th May, 1962 as 
amended by notification No. F.24-5 /62-T.6, dated the 16th July, 1962 and notification 
No. F.25-3/63-T.6, dated the 18th May, 1964, namely : — 

In the said notification under the heading “V. Representatives of Parliament”, in 
item (k), for the existing entry (iii), the following entry shall be substituted, 
namely : — 

"(iii) Shri Arjun Arora, Member, Rajya Sabha, 90, Shahjahan Road, New Delhi. 

[No. F.10 9/68-T.6.] 
G. N. VASWANI, Dy. Edl. Adviser (T). 


fw$TT FFTTTy 

fit feevft, 25 fdd«K, 1968 

trtfo Wf ’ 3853 — SITfi TFfffifltt ifa, 1961 ( 19 61 FT 59), % 
*fa-31 Ft STR1 (zo) Ft TT-yrTT ( 2 ) % TTTfiTT if TFFT TPTT SRT ’sft STFfi SpCtFT Ft 
rrfVrr % TFIRT ^TFi TT, ttk fiFFTT TFsfiT 24-5/62 tt- 6 fcfiTF 16 

^rr^, 1962 sftr srfa^fil fiW 25-3/63 st-6 fefitF 18 Pt, 1964 ?R7 tTafrftFT, 
•flTTT TTFTT % ('Fcnt), iTfTTTT TfiT fitffRfF -FT f iraTTtT Ft TTftFJ^FfiT 

R«T1 2 4— 5/ 6 2 tt-6 ft'TFF 9 , 1962 H ftr-TfafsiT fttTTfi FT ft % SPTffT : — 

TFT srfsnjF-T if, " V t'T? F 3 ffiffifsr" bfrf % wftT RT (z) if ffiTRTfi' 

(iii) % F3Tfi- TT ffiTfitfipTF Tffifcs f?F3r eft nrrr, xjufq- ; — 

" (iii) Nt srftfi ttsrt, iw thtt, 

9 0, TRr, 'ff 


[*TW 1 0—9/ 68/tt— 6-] 

tt o t^T o 

TT fST5TT T’TlffFK (#o) I 


DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS 
CP. & T. Board) 

New Delhi , the 24 tfi September 1968 

S.O. 3564. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 8 of the India Post Office 
Act, 1898 (6 of 1898), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules further 
to amend the Indian Post Office Rules, 1933, namely : — 

1, These rules may be called the Indian Post Office (Tenth Amendment) Rules, 
1968. 



Sec. 3(il)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASV1NA 20, 1890 4645 


2. In the Indian Post Office Rules, 1933 (hereinafter referred to as the said rules), 

in rule 3 — 

(1) for the words “On an unpaid letter, postcard or packet”, the words “On an 
unpaid letter, letter card, postcard or packet” shall be substituted; 

(ii) for the words “On an insufficiently paid letter, postcard or packet”, the words 
“On an insufficiently paid letter, letter card, postcard or packet” shall bo 
substituted. 

3. In rule 10-A of the said rules, for the words “Letter cards may be transmitted 

by post provided that postage is prepaid in full and nothing is attached to or 
enclosed in them the words “Letter cards may be transmitted by post 
with or without pre payment of postage provided that nothing is attached 
to or enclosed in them shall be substituted. 

4. In rule 10-B of the said rules, in sub-rule (2), the words "or without postage 

having been prepaid” shall be omitted. 


[No. 3/1/68-CI.] 

V. E. ARUNACHALAM. 
Director (Postal Technical). 


(P. St T. Board) 

New Delhi, the 25 th September 1068 

S.O. 3565. — In pursuance of para (a) of Section Til of Rule 434 of Indian Telegraph 
Rules, 1951, as introduced by S.O. No. 627 dated 8th March, 1960, the Director-General, 
Posts and Telegraphs, hereby specifies the 16th October, 1968 as the date on which the 
Measured Rate System will be introduced in Nanded Telephone Exchange, in Maharashtra 
Circle. 

[No. 5-52/68-PHB(4).] 

S.O. 3566, — Tti pursuance of para (al of Section I)T of Rule 434 of India Telegraph 
Rules, 1951, hs introduced by S.O. No, 627 dated 8th March, 1960, the Director-General, 
Posts and Telegraphs, hereby specifies the 16th October, 1968 as the date on which the 
Measured Rate System will be introduced in Tiruverambur Telephone Exchange, in Madras 
Circle. 


[No. 5-49/68-PHB(9).] 

S. P. SRTVASTAVA, 
Asstt. Director General (PHB). 


EUTT f^Ttv 
(TW-HTT iti) 

fcpsft, 25 fafTfarr 1968 

tJRo wto 35 67. — !TT^1 WWi 6 2 7, 8 BT3, I960- 

imHnjfffirr OP 1951 % ?rrc faq'RTr % for* 434 % 111 % (ffi) % 

kTffifTK TTfr-ffT T % ffEtS %'S fT 16-10- 68 % WRel ST TR 

«fTT% f%qr % I 

[(T» 6'52/68-%r° VT°] 


3568. — Wtfr 627, felTT 8 BT# 

1 960 ftRI EfTIT fffirr 19 51 % 'fllTcffT fTR f%rpf % 434 % 1 ! I % TVT ( 



4646 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 [Past II— 


% STTFTT gRr-frrr ^ Jr 16-10-68 ?r TfTrPlFr m 

rotpIY tet *jrfo tt foTff fori p 1 

[flo 5-49/6 8 ft 0 C^f° *t°] 

¥to 30 isn-grr^r^f, 

FgTtJTf tT/rffoPTL ( 9Y0 fo ) I 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH, FAMILY PLANNING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT 
(Depth of Health and Urban Development) 

New Delhi, the 1 5th September 1968 

S.O. 3569, — ^Whereas Dr. D. N, Phukan, Director of Health Services and Director 
of Health Planning and Education, Assam has been nominated under clause (h) of section 3 
of the Pharmacy Act, 1948 (8 of 1948) by the Government of Assam to represent that 
State on the Pharmacy Council of India in the vacancy caused by the resignation of Dr. 
T. Bhaskara Menon; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 3 of the said Act the Central Govern- 
ment hereby makes the following further amendment in the notification of the Government 
of India in the late Ministry of Health No. F.7-23/59-D, dated the 21st December, 1959, 
namely: — 

in the said notification, under the heading “VI-Members nominated by the State 
Governments under clause (h)’\ for the existing entry against serial No. 2, 
the following entry shall be substituted, namely : — 

"2. Dr. D. N. Phukan, Director of Health Services and Director of Health Planning 
and Education, Assam,” 

[No. F.6 26/64 MPT.] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 24th September 1968 

S.O. 3570. — Whereas the Government of India in the late Ministry of Health has, by 
notification No. 16-19/59-MI, dated the 1st April, 1960, made in exercise of the powers 
conferred by sub-section (1) of section 14 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (102 of 
1956), recognised the medical qualification M.D. granted by the University of California 
for the purposes of the said Act. 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub-section (1) 
of section 14 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (102 of 1956), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby specifics a period of two years with effect from the date of issue of this 
order or so long as Dr. Jonathan Jenks Porter, who possesses tho said qualification, con- 
tinues to bo employed in the American Peace Corps, Calcutta Regional Office, Calcutta 
to which he is attached for tho time being for the purposes of teaching, research or 
charitable work, whichever is shorter, as the period to which the medical practice of the 
said Dr. Jonathan Jenks Porter shall be limited subject to the condition that the said 
doctor continues to be enrolled as a medical practitioner for the said period in accordance 
with the law regulating the registration of medical practitioner in his country, 

[No. F, 19-34/68-MPT.] 
K, DEO, Under Secy. 


(Deptt. of Health and Urban Development) 

New Delhi, the 27th September 1968 

S.O. 3571. Whereas in pursuance of clause (d) of sub-section (2) of section 3 of the 

Prevention of Food Adulteration, Act. 1954 (37 of 1954). the Central Government has 
nominated Col R, R. Rao, M.C., Deputy Director (Food Inspection), QMGs Branch, 



Sbc. 3(il>] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 


4M7 


Army Headquarters, New Delhi, as a member of the Central Committee for Food 
Standards vice Col. A. K. Jadeja; 


And whereas in pursuance of clause (e) of sub-section (2) of section 3 of the said 
Act, the State Government of Andhra Pradesh have nominated Dr. T. Dharma Reddy, 
In-charge Government Analyst, Institute of Preventive Medicine, Hyderabad, as a member 
of the Central Committee for Food Standards representing that Government vice Shri 
M. Krishna Murthy; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section Cl) of section 3 of 
the said Act, the Central Government hereby makes the following further amendments in 
the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Health No. SRO-1236 
dated the 1st June, 1955 namely : — 


In the said notification : 


(a) against item 8, for the existing entry, the following entry shall be substituted, 

namely : — 

“Col. R. R. Rao, M.C., Deputy Director (Food Inspection) QMG's Branch, Army 
Headquarters, New Delhi”. 

(b) against item 10, for the existing entry, the following entry shall be substituted, 

namely : — 

“Dr. T, Dharma Reddy, In-charge, Government Analyst, Institute of Preventive 
Medicine, Hyderabad." 


[No. F.14-25/67-PH.] 


M. C. JAIN, Under Secy. 


("trTRT ,{ T fThT fpW 
tff fTvvfV, 27fatP^T, 1908 

3 5 72: — Tel: URT UPfTipJT flTTh STpjf'T.'TT 1 954 ( 1954 TT 37) pff 
HTCT 3 Tf Th-'TTTT ( 2 ) % U? (>T ) TT •|>TT ^sffp TCFTC F TTfT tfo %o 

■if Till % FPTT 'K TT ft&FF (gT^ Tfo nrtTo ^0 HTPff 

?rf firetfr % TdT tfnro srnco tit, tto tfr<> Tf %'ifth ptpt ^ 

BTPT % JFT if trftrjTcr frur | ; 

tfk JUT: SrfafWT Tt ITTU 3 Vt TTJRT 2 ^ (^0 ) TT qTFFT srFST 

TTtP" T HPd T % 3T5T iHT'fiTT % pfdfirffr % FR if *jfff % 9T fdfitjt MfM 

q-’cqTd ptc fsrq'f^sr bMpt) , ^ti^tt % r*rRt-ii FFiff st° o spfr 

tffr trrcr ttw nMr if if BTFfrr fw $ ; 

■s 

?FT: 5RT TFJ W Srfttfnqu SiIFT 3 Tf 3WIT ( 1 ) £RT qqn ui P+vt 1 J RT Uq! 1 ! 
<b <3r |TCt ^u-tTlq TOR 7) 1 id TOP % ^TiR^T Pet ivtq i-Htqf t(7T o 

WRo «ft° 1 236 fedFF 1 v^T, 1 9 5 5 if PTtf ftsTcT FTwft^T PRcff TPFT: t3W 

'gvn if : 

(t) 8%HT*Ff PTPFr pfdfe % fan Id fad pfafe 7tsff PUT, 

PTUd: 

%fsT *a 1 <0 STR® TTT, (tJTRT P-t -OdrTtT ) 

TJo txtro sff o 9itT, tnpf pf fsprvff ]’’ 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 IPartII— 

HTHfU 

“tto 

Tvrrfr to# fapmrr, fifrtft fHfvwi ^it,ri? i” 

[ho 1 4-25/07-3JH fTH«h\] 

¥pn: hNh i 


(Department of Health and Urban Development) 

New Delhi, the 3rd October 1968 


S.O. 3573. — Whereas under sub-section (1) of section 77 of the Punjab Reorganisa- 
tion Act, 1966 (31 of 1966), the Central Government shall continue to provide facilities 
to the Governments of the States of Haryana and Punjab and the people of the said States 
and the territories transferred to the Union territory of Himachal Pradesh in the Post- 
Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh (hereinafter referred 
to as the Institute), for such period and upon such terms and conditions (including those 
relating to any contributions to be made for the provisions of such facilities) as may be 
agreed upon between the Governments mentioned in the said section before the 1st day of 
April, 1967: 

And whereas the Institute has been declared to be an institution of national import- 
ance and constituted as a body corporate with effect from the 1st April 19'" 7 by the 
Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh Act, 1966 (51 of 
1966), and under section 29 of the said Act, the Institute shall continue to provide facilities 
to the Governments of the States of Haryana and Punjab and the Central Government 
in relation to the Union territories of Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh and the people 
of the States and territories aforesaid for such period and upon such terms and conditions 
(including those relating to any contributions to be made for the provision of such facilities) 
as may be agreed upon between the Institute and the Governments mentioned in the said 
section before the 1st day of April, 1967; 


And whereas no agreements as aforesaid were reached before the 1st day of April, 
1967; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 29 of the Post- 
Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh Act, 1966 (51 of 1966). 
the Central Government hereby orders- - 

(a) (hat para-medical training programmes shall be continued by the Institute upto 

31st March. 1972 on the same terms and conditions as were applicable to 
such training immediately before the 1st November, 1966; 

(b) that the Governments of Haryana and Punjab and the Administrations of the 

Union Territories of Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh shall, on being 
informed by the Director of the Institute of the cost of such Para-mcdical 
training to be paid by the Governments and the Administrations conferred 
(which cost shall depend on the number of trainees from the said States and 
Administrations), pay the same within one month from the date of receipt 
of the intimation; 

(c) that the cost of maintenance of 120 beds in the hospital of the Institute shall 

be paid by the Government of Punjab and of 80 beds by the Government of 
Haryana at the rate of Rs. 5,800 per bed per annum; 

(d) that the cost of the prra-mcdicp.l training and tho maintenance of beds as afore- 

said under clauses (b) and (c) for the period commencing on and from the 
1st of November, 1966 to the 31st March, 1967 shall be paid by the Govern- 
ments of Punjab and Haryana to the Central Government and for tho succeed- 
ing years, the said cost shall be paid by the Governments of Punjab and 
Haryana and the Administrations of Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh to 
the Institute. 

[No. F.l-20/67-ME(PG) J 
R. N, MADHOK, Jt. Secy. 



Sec. 3(il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 4649 


(STiWnjai TIR fwr ) 

Tf fefr, 3 TFFTTT 106 8 

t["o tfto 357T--TF: kUT JTT3T jrfafTTT, ;9 66 (i960 TT 3 l) T?t 
STITT 77 T?t TTT1TT ( 1 ) % WfiT TRCtT TRTTT, tT’^lTTTl" TTTT T'TTUft #t TRTTTf 
*PT cPTT 5W TER? TIT fpRET TT TITT STT TV SFrtfkT #,ft T?T TTTT 

kt frfrrHT fwr tt setttr ^Trekim prtr wk?? fr (fck wet #rttt 
qp$T W t) 3TT SETHt ?R7 ?ftT TT fTTRI#f Plk Tiff 17: ((®TT TETTd TtrV gfaurnflf 
T -httt % far fir Tk akr fkrfr Tferm *? •• Rkw franR srk: pit tt## £ ) 

Tjf#sm( TTPT TTTt TftfV fciT IT TTtT STITT it T?T6 TR'fiTT? % if|T 1 9 6 7 Tt TH'kljTff l^ft 
d I {iT ?T 'J# TRTT 5 ’f 1 tt ; 

iffa TcT: fkkr.cTTT fvpTTT T^T W3W RTETTrkR FFT'T, WITT TTfafklF, 10 66 
( 1 9 6 6 TT 5 I ) TP.T 7HTTT 1 STTT, :. 9 6 7 Tt \W*U\ T?t T'T Tifkd TT 1w 
nr % wk grr fkifirr fTm % fr it ifei tt Ptet tit | g«rr kr 

STITT 29 % T? TTTIT ^TTETT tfk TTiT % RT^tff k? FT?. ITT Tt ViTT ^TTH? WK 
ffTTTT JkPT % TIT TRT 3?## % RT^ST if WR TwR Tf Wk TETifr TTk TTT 

TER WT kr TTTI Tt T?r#t SRpST % frtr 5fk TT RTTri', Nk TT? IT (krr k 
WTFTT TT# ^fasnsft % ^WfT % TIT TEP f?^T FfirTFTi TT FRfitTF fTT'T? 

kk PIT WIT: I), fkr IT f 6 TtTTR TikTIxf tTRT^srf-fa TRTRt TfiT 1 967 kl 
SETT, ktl^TT? dlfi^r F^ITTR f;VT>% ^PW‘{ 5T?TT'?TuT T?Ti I 

FIT W 196 7 kt RTF, Tt Iflkt Bit?’? tf <J# T4T ^TfTTT Ttf TTR R^t fT ; A t 

SRD HR frfTRT fpiSTT T[T TTTTR J?1 c,T>tR F?T T, RfkfkRPT, 1 966 

( 1 9 6 6 TT 5 1 ) kt aiTT 29 Tt JRT R5TT Plf’n'Tt TT t TTTT TTTt jR TTftT TRTTT T^- 
JTTT ’RKPT TTcft | fr : — 

(t) ^TT-fRferrr-arftreTPr tettt kr 3 1 FRf , 1972 ?pR37$r 

kfR-Tk' irk pet? tt =TTrrar tP-tt "k iTiuft ttrt, 1 9 66 ^ 
gr T4 TtPTSrTT TT TTT^ ^trfr «fl ; 

(*t) fRTRT ak TTR TI FTT? TT)' ftRTTR TpPT TR Rkkl? %TT'T TFR 
ETk % T-TTW, F'fTTT TT-VTTTt VTTT TPlTTiTt JITT f^T TTE 'TTt k>? TT 
PtF-TEI 1 -TpTTTT-RT TTT ( TTf R'fTT TTTTT Tfk T 'UdTf tf TTi TT?T 

Srfk'ST -Trfk kf Tt T6TT tt w4t TROT ) TTvTTT % kkppp ii T 1 
fTTT ink TT, R6TT TTl J TT[m TTflf TT TTTrer T T^ ikEi T FETT TT 
*•? ; 

(t) ^TT PTFTFT % TT I 'I ET T 1 20 TTT’fT TT T6ET wt TT ITT TTTPT TTCTUT 
dTT RO Wlf T?l TTTC7 vU^t "TT TTRETT TTTTT 5,8 00 TTT TPcT 
TPTT flTur TT : T?t TT TT kft ; 

(t) TTR (»T) Tk: (t) % TcflT TTT-TlTTI kr-rTfTRTT-TfprSTPT TTT 
TTTTt T?t sRItT TTf^TT 1 TTRT, 1 966 T?t TttT 6kTT 3 1 TT 1 #, 



4650 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 [PartII- 


196 7TTTtTrTrTT SfgTT STT TTR TfR gfurm Tt %^fPT 
TTTT R "jf r TMT TriTTcff TTf T fri'7 TTTf ig'T T^TUT TfT ^TRETf TT 
TTFITT T«rr f^RTTTT TtTT %f\r W>£tm % T5TTTTT £RT RUTFT TT 
ITT" TfliplT I 

[Ro Tr° l-20/67~fTofWo(ETlTFiTT)] 
To To TTTT, T^WI RfVT I 


q^Tfurr wVt TOTTT FTtm 

(trrut fawn) 

rif fc?Tt, 17 !T^T 196 8 

TTo Tto 3 5 7 5' — HT TT fri TL'T 1961 HIT 11 TT TT-i-FTr^) % 

HTRTT TTITR fri^ST Ttfl | Ft TUT STITT FT TT-TITT ( 1 ) T T'T^ET MFU 

T?7T TRT *T 17 RTR, 1 968 % vTF{, fi<t I 

[tf 4/l9/68/'Mr-l] 

IT To TTTfcqTqT, Tf/Tri RfTT I. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR, EMPLOYMENT AM) REHABILITATION 
(Department of Labour Hud Employment) 

New Del’d, the 24th September 1968 

S.O. 3576. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer and the 
majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs Mapa Tool* 
Private Limited, Factory and Registered Office, Gamadevi Road, Bhandup, Bombay-78, 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds Act. 1952 (19 of 1952), 
should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of section 1 of 
the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the said Act to 
the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 31st March 1968. 

[No. 8/123/ 68/PF-H.l 


New Delhi, the 27 th September 1908 

S.O. 3577.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 13 of the 
Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), and in supersession of the notification 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation 
(Department of Labour and Employment) No. S.O. 741, dated the 28th February 1966, the 
Centra] Government hereby appoints Shri N. T. Kunivilla to be an Inspector for the whole 
of the State of Kerala and the Mahe Area of the Union Territory of Pondicherry for the 
purposes of the said Act or of any scheme framed thereunder, in relation to any establish- 
ment belonging to, or under tbe control of the Central Government, or in relation to any 
establishment connected with a railway company, a maior port, a mine or an oil field, or a 
controlled industry. 


TNo. 18(20)/68-PF-I(iil).] 



Sec, 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 


New Delhi, the 5th October 1968 

S.O. 3578. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer and the 
majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs Spanto Textiles, 
■Gopal Bagh Ghodbunder Road, Goregaon, Bombay-44 have agreed that the provisions of 
the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the 
said establishment: 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of Section 1 
of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the said Act 
to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 30th day of September. 
1967 . ; 

[No. 8/183/67-PF.n.J 

DALJIT SINGH, Under Secy. 


(Department ot Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 26 th September 1968 

S.O. 3579.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 26 of 
the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 (11 of 1948), the Central Government hereby directs that, 
for a period of three years from the date of publication of this notification, the provisions 
of sub-section (3) of section (18) of the said Act, in so far as it relates to the issue of 
wage slips shall not apply to the employees of the Military Engineering Service and the 
Military Farms, who are on time scale of pay approved by the Central Government and 
are employed in any scheduled employment, 

[No. LWI (I) 8(3)/ 66.] 

S.O. 3580. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7, read with section 9 of 
the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 (11 of 1948), and in supersession of the notification of 
the Government of India in the late Ministry of Labour, S.R.O. 2088 dated the 21st June, 
1954, tjie Central Government hereby appoints an Advisory Board consisting of the 
following members for the purpose of co-ordinating the work of committees and sub- 
committees appointed under section 5 of the said Act and for advising the Central Govern- 
ment generally in the matter of fixing and revising minimum rates of wages in respect of 
the scheduled employments carried on by or under the authority of the Central Government 
and appoints Shri O. Venkatachalam as Chairman thereof, namely : — 

I. Independent Member m 

(!) Shri O. Venkatachalam, Chief Labour Commissioner (Central), New Delhi — - 
Chairman. 

(2) Shri K. K. Bhatia, Director, Labour Bureau, Simla. 

(3) Dr. J. N. Sinha, Senior Fellow, Institute of Economic Growth, University 

Enclave, Delhi-7. 

II. Representatives of Employers 

(1) Shri S. Devanath, Deputy Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of 

Defence, New Delhi. 

(2) Shri B. K. Mitra, Joint Director, Civil Engineering, Railway Board, Ministry of 

Railways, New Delhi. 

(3) Shri R. T. D, Joseph, Deputy Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry 

of Works, Housing and Supply, (Works Division), New Delhi. 

(4) Shri K. Narayanan, Deputy Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of 

Transport and Shipping (Transport Wing), New Delhi. 

(J) Shri F. C. Gera, Deputy Director General, State Farms, Department of 

Agriculture, New Delhi. 

IIL Representatives of Employees 

(1) Shri N. N, Manna, General Secretary, C.P.W.D. Workers’ Union, Chhai Tooti, 

Paharganj, New Delhi. 

(2) Shri Sisir Kumar Ganguly, General Secretary, National Union of Jute Workers. 

177/B Acharya Jagdlsh Bose Road, Calcutta-14. 



46 J2 1HE GAZETTE OF INDIA; OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 [Part II— 


(3) Shri C. M, Stephen, President, Indian National Trade Union Congress, Kerala 

Branch, XX1I/299A. Mahatma Gandhi Road, Ernukulam, 

(4) Shri Sagar Ram Gupta, General Secretary, Indian National Trade Union 

Congress, Haryana Branch, Textile Mazdoor Sangh, Lohar Bazar, Bhiwanl 
(Hissar). 

(ij Shri S. R. Kulkarni, President, All India Port and Dock Workers Federation, 
P D* Mello Bhavan, 167, P.D* Melio Roa'd, Bombay-1, , 

[No. LWI-I-6(15)/68.] 


S.O. 3581. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section 11) of 
section 5, and section 9, of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 (11 of 1948) and in partial 
modification of tlte notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Labour 
and Employment No. S.O. 2032 dated the 23rd September, 1958, the Central Government 
hereby appoints a Committee consisting of the following members to hold enquiries and 
advise the Central Government regarding— 

(a) the fixation of minimum rates of wages for the first time under the said Act, and 

(b) the revision ol minimum rates of wages already fixed by the Central Govern- 

ment under the said Act, 

in respect of the scheduled employment on the construction or maintenance of roads or 
in building operations and stone-breaking or stone-crushing, and appoints Shri 

O. Venkatachalam as the Chairman thereof, namely : — 

I. Independent Members 

1. Shri O. Venkatachalam, Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) New Delhi— 

Chairman. 

2. Shri K, K. Bhatia, Director, Labour Bureau, Simla. 


II. Representatives of Employers 

1. Shri Hnzari Lai Marwah, President Central Builder* Association, 44, Regal 

Building, Connaught Place, New Delhi. 

2. Shri R. T. D. Joseph, Deputy Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry 

of Works, Housing and Supply, (Department of Works and Housing), New 
Delhi. 

3. Shri Tirath Praknsh, Deputy Director, Civil Engineering, Ministry of Railways, 

(Railway Board), New Delhi. 

4. Shri S. R. Somaddcr, Senior Surveyor of Works, Engineer-in-Chiefs Branch, 

Army Headquarters, New Delhi. 

III. Representatives of Employees 

1. Shri Sat Pal Bhushun, President, Indian National Trade Union Congress — 

Punjab Branch, 1130, .Sector 21-B, Chandigarh. 

2. Shri D. Durgawat, General Secretary, Indian National Trade Union Congress — 

Rajasthan Branch, Ahar Road, Udaipur. 

3. Shri S. P. Singh, Polytechnic Road, Dhanbad. 

4. Shri N. N. Manna, General Secretary, C P. W. D. Workers Union, Chhal Tootl, 

Main Bazar, PaharganJ, New Delhl-55. 

2. Tn pursuance of rule 6 of the Minimum Wages (Central) Rules, 1950, the Central 
Government hereby appoints the Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central) to be the 
Secretary of the said Committee. 

[No. LWI I-6(21)/68.J 
C. R. NAIR, Under Secy. 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 28 th September 1968 

S.O. 3582.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections (3) and (4) of section 
5A of tht Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act, 1948 (9 of 1948), the Central 



Sec. 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 4653 

Government hereby appoints the following persons ns members of the Vizagapatam Dock 
Labour Board, and nominates Shri H. Sambamurti as Chairman thereof, namely : 

Members representing the Central Government : 

(1) Shri Ii. Sambamurti, Chairman, Visakhapatnam Pott Trust, Visakhapatnanm. 

(2) The Deputy Chairman, Vizagapatam Dock Labour Board, Visakhapatnam. 

(3) The Regional Assistant Commissioner of Labour, Visakhapatnam. 

(4) The Assistant Labour Commissioner (C), Visakhapatnam. 

Members representing the Dock Workers : 

(1) Shri P- Manavallayra Naidu Representative of the Port Khalasis Union. 

(2) Shri Adla Rajarao, Representative of the oPrt Khalasis Union. 

(3J Shri Medida Suryanarayana, Representative of the Port Khalasis Union. 

(4) Shri B. G. M. A. Narasinga Rao, Representative of the Dock Workers Union. 
Members representing the Employers of Dock Workers and Shipping Companies'. 

(1) Shri K. S. Dutt. Representative of the Visakhapatnam Stevedores Association. 

(2) Shri B. Bancrjce, Representative of the Visakhapatnam Stevedores Association. 

(3) Shri V. V. Rau, Representative of the Indian National Steamship Owner*’ 

Association, 

(4) Shri H. O. Pereira, Representative of the Overseas Shipping Interests, 

[No. 56/1/68-Fac.IL] 


New Delhi, the 4th October 1968 

S.O. 3583. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 4 of 
the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act, 1948 (9 of 1948), the Central 

Government hereby makes the following Scheme further to amend the Vizagapatam Dock 
Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1956, the same having been previously 
published as required by the said sub-section, namely — 

1, This Scheme may be called the Vizagapatam Dock Workers (Regulation of Employ- 
ment) Third Amendment Scheme, 1968. 

2. In Claust 10 of the Vizagapatam Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) 
Scheme, 1959, after item (e), the following item shall be inserted, namely 

“(f) make appointments to the posts the maximum salary of which exclusive of 
allowances is not more than live hundred and seventyfive rupees per month." 

[No. 65/10/68-Fac.IL] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi , the 28th September 1968 

S.O. 3584. — Whereas an industrial dispute between the management of 1 1 stevedore*. 
Stevedores Association and the Vizagapatam Dock Labour Board of Visakhapatnam Port, 
and their workmen was referred for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, Hyderabad 
and its award was published with the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Deptt. of Labour and Employment) 
No. S.O. 2216 dated the 12th June, 1968; 

And, whereas in the opinion of the Central Government, difficulties have arisen as to 
the intepretation of the said award in respect of the question specified in the Schedule 
hereto annexed: 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by Sections 7A, and 36A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby constitutes an 
Industrial Tribunal of which Shri M. Najmmuddin shall be the Presiding Officer with 
headquarters at Hyderabad and refers the said question for decision to that Tribunal. 

Schedule 

Having regard to the directions contained in paragraph 17 of the Award dated 
the 24th May 1968 of the Industrial Tribunal, Hyderabad published in the 
Gazette of India, Part If .Section 3, Sub-section (ii) under S.O. 2216 dated 
12th June, 1968, whether the tonnage involved in the vessels which load or* 



465.4 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 [Part II— 


by skips and cranes with the help of signalmen/tippers, tindal and sometimes 
with trimming gangs should be deemed to be the tonnage handled for the 
purpose of bonus and if so, on what basis the calculation should be done. 

[No. 29/31/68-LR.UL] 

New Delhi, the 1th October, 1968 

S.O. 3585.— Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dispute 
exists between the employers in relation to Messrs eroutta Licensed Measurers. Calcutta and 
their workmen in respect of the matter specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said dispute 
for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section (lj of 
section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby 
refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
Calcutta, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

Whether the clerical and mechanical staff under the Calcutta Licensed Measurers, 
P-78, Garden Reach Road, Kidderpore, Calcutta-43 are entitled to sick leave 
at the rate of one month in a year ? If not, to what relief are the workmen 
concerned entitled 7 

[No. 28(66)/68-LRlII.l 

, S.O. 3586. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dispute 
exists between the employers in relation to Bombay Port Trust, Bombay and their Workmen 
in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said dispute 
for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section (1) of 
section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of_ 1947), tho Central Government hereby 
refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay constituted under 
section 7A of the said Act. 

ScnimuLF. 

Whether the claims of Sarvasbri G. D. More and Syed Jnffer for promotion as 
Section Leader were nniustifiably overlooked by the Bombay Port Trust in 
the past 7 If so, to what relief are they entitled 7 

[No. 28C9)/6S-T .RITE] 

S.O. 3587. — Wlv-eas the Industrial Dhnnte sncoN'd in the Schedule hereto annexed 
is pending before the Presiding Officer, Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbud; 

And whereas for the ends of justice and convenience of parties, the dispnto specified in 
the Schedule hereto annexed should be disposed of without further delay; 

Now. therefore, in exercise of the newer' co-fened by sub-section (T) of section 
uiB of rhe Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (r.-t of 19173, the Central Government herebv with- 
draws the nroc'v-dmgs ip relation to the said disouie from the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad 
and transfers the same to the Industrial Tribunal, Caleutta construed under section "A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, with the direction lhatfhe said Tribunal shall proceed with the 
said proceedings from the 'stage at which they are transferred to it and dispose of the same 
according to law. 

Schedule 


SI- Parties to the dispute No- and date of refer- S.O. No. of 

No. encc to the Industrial Gazette 

Tribunal &v:arof 
publication 



2 


Calcutta Port Commissioners, Calcutta and their 
workmen. 



28(47)/68-LRIII 2598/1968 

9-7-1968 


[No. 28(47)/68-LRIII.] 

C, RAMDAS, Under Secy. 


Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 4 <5jj 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi , the 3rd October 

1968 

S.O. 3588. — In pursuance of Sub-section (1) of .Section 14, Sub-section (1) of Section 
15, Sections 16, 17 and 18 of the Personal Injuries (Compensation Insurance) Act, 1963 
(37 of 1963), and in supersession of the notification of Government of India in the 
Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employ- 
ment) No, S.O. 2120 dated the 17th June, 1967, the Central Government hereby authorise* 
the officers specified in column (1) of the Schedule below to exercise all or any of the 
powers under the Sections of the said Act mentioned in corresponding entries in column 
(2) of the said Schedule within the areas specified against them in column (3) thereof. 

Schedule 


Officers Sections 

Areas 

T 2 

3 

(l) Chief Inspector of Factories, 14(1), 15(1), 16,17 
Kerala State appointed under Sec- and 18. 
don 8(2) of the Factories Act, 1948 
(63 of 1948). 

Throughout the State of Kerala 

(2) Chief Inspector of Plantations, Do. 

Kottayam appointed under sec- 
tion 4(1) of the Plantations Labour 

Act, 1951 (69 of 1951). 

Do. 

(3) Regional Inspectors of Factories 14 and 15 
and Inspectors of Factories ap- 
pointed under Section 8(1) of the 

Factories Act, 1948 (63 of 1948). 

Within their respective juris- 
dictions. 

(4) Inspectors appointed under Sec- 14 and 15 
non 4(1) of the Plantations 

Labour Act, 1951 (69 of 1951). 

Within their respective ijouris- 
dictions. 


(No. 3/40/66-Spl.FacJLJ 


N. N. CHATTERJEE, Joint Secy. 


(Department of Labour und Employment) 

ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 20th September 1968 

S.O. 2589.— Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dispute 
exists between the employers i.) relation to the Bhowra Colliery of Messrs Karaunchand 
Thapar and Brotlrers (Private) Linvted, Central Office, Bhowra, Post Office Bhowra 
(Dhanbad) and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said dispute 
for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section (1) 
of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1'-47 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby refers Ihe said dispute for adjudication to the Induslrial Tribunal (No. 2), 
Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 



4656 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12 , 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 [Part II— 




Schedule 


Whether the management of Bhowra Colliery of Messrs Karamchand Thapar and 
Brothers (Private) Limited, Central Office, Bhowra, Post Office Bhowra (Dhanbad) ia 
justified in suspending the following workmen for tho period shown against each of them? 

si. 

No. 

Name of worker and designation 

Period of suspension 

I 

Shri Satai Rabidas, 

Pick Miner 

. 27-9-1967 to 2-10-1067 and 
3-6-1968 to 4-6-1968. 

2 

Shri Ram.ihari Gopc 

Do. 

Do. 

3 

Shri Ramcharan Gararia 

Do. 

Do. 

4 

Shri Sornar Chowdhury 

Do. 

. 2-10-T967 and from 3-6-1968 to 
9-6-1968. 

5 

Shri Ranylular Jaiswara, 

Do. 

. 30-9-1967 to 2-10-1967 and 

24-6-1968 to 28-6-1968. 

6 

Shri Monohar Passi, 

Do. 

■ 27-9-1967 to 4-10-1967. 

7 

Shri PeyaraLnl Kand't, 

On setter 

24-9-1967 to 3-10-1967. 

s 

Shri Ramfer Jaiswara, 

Pick Miner 

7-11-1967 to 16-11-1967. 


If not, to what relief are these workmen entitled ? 


[No. 2/128/68-LRII.] 

S.O. 3590. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dispute 
exists between the employers in relation to the Kharkharee Colliery of Messrs Bharat 
Mining Corporation Limited, Post Office Kharkharee. District Dhanbad 

and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said dispute 
for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section (1) 
#f lection 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal (No. 3), 

Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of tho said Act. 

Schedule 

Whether the action of the management of Kharkharee Colliery of Messrs Bharat 
Mining Corporation Limited. Post Office Kharkharee, District Dhanbad was justified in 
^fusing employment to Shri Madan Singh, Fitter Helper, with effect from the 14th 
Italy, 1968? If not, to what relief is the workman entiled7 

[No. 2/159/68 LRIL] 


New Delhi, the 3rd October 1908 

&0. 3591.— Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dis- 
pute exists between the employers in relation to the Khas Nirsha Colliery, Post Office 
Nirshachatti (District Dhanbad) and their workmen in respect of the matters specified 
k the Schedule hereto annexed; 


And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said dispute 
tor adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- section (I) 
•f section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal (No. 3), Dhanbad, 
constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 


Schedule 

Whether the claim of the workman, Shri B. B. Sar, Electric Supervisor of Khas 
Nirsha Colliery for A Grade Scale of pay as recommended by the Central 
Wage Board for Coal Industry is justified? If so, to what relief is he 

entltlcd? [No. 2/132/68-LRIL] 




Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 4657 


New Delhi, the 4th October 1968 

S.O. 3592. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dispute 
exists between the employers in relation to the management of P. D Kajora Colliery, 
Post Office Kajoragram, District Burdwan and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said dispute 
for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section (1) 
of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, 
constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

Whtther the management of PD. Kajom Cc’hery, Post Office Kajoragram, District 
Burdwan was i"°tif ed in not allowing 111 workmen mentioned in the list below to work 
on the 2nd February, 1968, 3rd February, 1968 and 5th February, 1968, and not paying 
them wages for the said date*:— 


Names 


Designation 


T, 

2. 

Parichh?n Kahar 
Bindeshwarl Singh 









Malta tt a 

>7 

3 - 

.Tayshree Singh 









ij 

4 * 

Tun Tun Mnni a 









JJ 

5 . 

Vikram Chamar 









'5 

6. 

Rudal K'disr 









3 » 

7 . 

Vishvra TTut 1 ’ TEiriinn 









Jj 

8. 

Ramlakbnn ITprijan 









37 

9 - 

Baku Miyn 









37 

10. 

Gafur Atjya 









» 

11. 

T.anbari MVo . 









73 

J2. 

Pupnn Harijan 









33 

13 . 

Rrjr jr.r. 2 ' i\ a 









Vi 

14 - 

Tilak K-har . 









1' 

15 ' 

16' 

Baiinath Hcr.jcn 
Purnabn: ■ Kahar 









33 

17 - 

Satva Narayan Kahar 









11 

18. 

Dilla Mi, a 









53 

19 ' 

I.ilu Ray 









3 3 

.20. 

Najmun Miya 









J, 

21. 

Ali Slier Miya 










22. 

Pujan Kahar . 









,, 

23 . 

Baaudev Kahar 










24. 

Salim Miya 









K, 

25. 

jalim Harijan . 










26. 

Naru Ray 









H , 

27. 

Kishm Nonia 










28. 

Musai Gour . 










29. 

Ram Nati 1 Harijan . 










30. 

Chhattu Harijan 









-ij 

3 i- 

Babban Sah . 









■ 1 

3a. 

Munsi Sah 










33 . 

Gamha Kahar 










34 - 

Amir Miya 










35 - 

Habib 










36. 

Chokath Smgh 










37 . 

Ramaudb Kahar 









-I 3 

36 . 

Bulan Aliya . 









» 

39 - 

Pabaru Harijan. 









■J , 

40. 

Ish Mohammad Miya 









57 

41. 

Sukai Kahar 









3 3 

42. 

Sobrati Aliya . 









7 y 

43 - 

Tufani Kahar 









37 

44. 

Raja Singh 









33 

45 - 

Sadgu Harijan . 









.73 



4658 the GAZETTE OF IN DIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 [Part II- 
Names 


Designation 


46. Jamdar Miya . 

47. Rarndas Gop 

48. Biggu Singh 
49- Snkhari Singh 

50. Sajjan Sah 

51. Jagat Singh 
.52. Dipan Singh , 

53- Narayan Singh 

54 - Sudhai Kaliar 

55- SevakHarijan . 

56. Rameshwar Napit 
57' Ramjec Pandey 

58. Kalo Bonri 

59. Abhov Rouri , 

60. Parasadi Turi . 

61. Nageshwar Singh 

62. Budhari Gnp 

63. Chandi Kahar 
^4- Sugdev Singh 

65. Moti Chand Singh 

66. Shakti Gop 

67. Surcndra Gop 

68. Jahaji Bouri , 

69* Bagani Bouri , 

70. Gena Bouri 

71. Binath Dom . 

72. Bhola Singh , 

73- Nafar Dom 

74- Kali Kora 

75- Bhikha Bouri . 

76. Banka Bouri 
77- Indra Singh . 

78. Paral Bagdi 

79. Rashu Kora 

80. Jitran Majhi 

81. Indu Kora 

82. Siva Dom 

83. Kura Dom 

84. Noona Dom 

85. Nepal Dom 

86. Robi Bouri 

87. Sufar Dom 

88. Khandi Bouri 

89. Sutli Bouri 

90. Lakhia Mochi 

91. N0011I Bouri , 

92. Mukhda Kora 

93. Jamuna Kora 

94. Joli Bouri 

9J. Subhadra Mahato 

96. Rabi Bouri 

97. Moti Bouri 

98. Havahi Bouri , 

99. Geni Bouri 

100. Sushti Dom 

101. Gour Dom 
X02. Santo Bouri 

103. Sundari Bouri . 

104. Achali Bouri . 

105. Punti Bngdi . 

106. Kalipada Mondul 

107. Ramdcv Kahar 

108. Bhola Ankuria 

109. Banarri Singh 
no. Banko Akuria , 
in. Jarkhnudi Singh 


Trammer 

tt 

j) 

t> 

11 

3> 

17 


Surface Trammet. 

it 

it 

tt 

tt 

>J 

» 

)) 

t> 

» 

it 

») 

Leader 

)) 

1 > 

1* 

it 

it 


y> 

PacKioi Cjolii 

51 

s.» 

yj 

it 

a 

!> 

Mini it Sar lar 
Bitter vlistri 
lutter C,jo];e 


If riot, to wht-ii relief are the workmen entitled ? 


[No. 6/48/6R-LRJI,}: 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12 , 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 4659 


S.O. 3593. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dispute 
exists between the employers in relation to the Ballarpur. Colliery of Messrs. Ballarpur 
Collieries Company, Bissessor House, Temple Road, Nagpur and their workmen in respect 
of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said dispute 
for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section (1) 
of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Government Industrial 
Tribunal, Bombay, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

Whether the management of Ballarpur Colliery of Messrs. Ballarpur Collieries Company, 
Nagpur was justified in terminating the services of Shrimati Santi Sammoo, Wagon Loading 
Reja with effect from the 27th May, 1968 7 If not, to what relief is 3 he entitled ? 

[No. 3/13/6S-LR1I.] 

New Delhi , the 5th October, 1968 

S.O. 3594,— Whereas an industrial dispute exists between the employers in relation 
to the Banki Colliery of Messrs National Coal Development Corporation Limited, Post 
Office Banki Mogra, District Bilaspur (Madhya Pradesh) and their workman Shri Janak 
Ram Markam, Trolly Fitter; 

And whereas, the said employers and the workman have by a written agreement, 
in pursuance of the provisions of sub-section ( 1 ) of section 10A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), referred the said dispute to arbitration by the person specified 
therein, and a copy of the said arbitration agreement has been forwarded to the Central 
Government; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (3) of section 10A 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947) the Central Government hereby publishes, 
the said arbitration agreement, which was received by it on the 19th September. 1968. 

AGREEMENT 

(Under Section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947). 

Between 

Names of the Parties . — 

Representing Employers- — Shri S, P. Mathur, Dy. Supdt. of Collieries, Banki Colliery 
of M/s. N.C.D.C- Ltd., P.O. Banki Mogra (Distt. Bilaspur) M.P. 

Representing Workman.— Shri lanakram Markam, C/o, M.P. Colliery Workers Federa- 
tion, Qr, No. 34/1, Banki Mogra, P.O. Banki Mogra (Distt. Bilaspur). 

Tt is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following industrial dispute to the 
arbitration of Shri V. P. Pratap, Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), labalpur. 

(i) Specific matters in dispute. — Whether retrenchment of Shri lanak Ram Markam, 
Trolly Fitter (Cat. IV of L.A.T. Award), Banki Colliery of Messrs National Coal Develop- 
ment Corporation Ltd., with effect from 3rd September 1966 was legal and justified? If 
not, to what relief is he entitled? 

(ii) Details of the parties to the dispute Including the name am} address of the establish- 
ment or undertaking involved — Employers in relation to the Banki Colliery of M/s. National 
Coal Development Corporation Limited, P.O. Banki Mogra (Distt. Bilaspur) M.P. and 
their workman, Shri Janak Ram Markam, Trolly Fitter (Cat. IV of the L.A.T. Award). 

(iii) Name of the workman in case he himself is Involved in the dispute or the name 
of the union, if any, representing the workman or workmen in Question, — Shri Janak Ram 
Markam. 

(iv) Total number of workmen employed in the undertaking affected. — 1250. 

(v) Estimated number of workmen affected or likely to he affected by the dispute f. 

We further agree that the decision of the Arbitrator shall be binding on us. 

The arbitrator shall make his award within a period of 3 months or within such further 
time as is extended by the mutual agreement between us in writing, In case the award 



4<56o the GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 196 8/ AS VINA 20, 1890 [Past Il- 


fs not made within the period aforementioned, the reference to arbitration shall stand 
automatically cancelled and we shall be free to negotiate for fresh arbitration. 
Representing Employers. Representing Workman. 

(Sd.) S. P. Mathur, (Sd.) Janak Ram Marram, 

1-9-1968 t-9-1968 

Witnesses: 

1. (Sd.) Rambilas Sobhanath (in Hindi). 

2. (Sd.) A, D. Mathur. 

1-9-968. (Sd.) A. S. Gupta, 

t-9-1968 

Bllaspur, dated the 1-9-1968. Asstt. Labour Com. (Central), Bilaspur. 

(No. 8/29/ 68-LRII.] 

S.O. 3595. — Whereas an industrial dispute exists between tne employers in relation 
to the Banki Colliery of Messrs National Coal Development Corporation Limited, Post 
Office Banki Mogra, District Bilaspur (Madhya Pradesh) and their workman Shri 
Mahadevi Winding Engine Operator; 

And whereas the said employers and the workman have by a written agreement, 
in pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 10A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), referred the said dispute to arbitration by the person specified 
therein, and a copy of the said arbitration agreement has been forwarded to the Central 
Government; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (3) of section 10 a 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby 
publishes the said arbitration agreement, which was received by it on the 19th September, 
1968. 

AGREEMENT 

(Under Section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947). 

Between 

Names of the Parties : — 

Representing Employers.- — Shri S. P. Mathur, Dy. Supdt. of Collieries, Banki Colliery of 
M/s. N.C.D.C. Ltd., P.O. Banki Mogra (Distt. Bilaspur) M.P. 

Representing Workman. — Shri Mahabir, Village & P.O. Sarkhon (Distt. Blaspur) M.P. 

It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following industrial dispute to the 
arbitration of Shri V. P. Pratap, Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Jabalpur. 

(i) Specific matters In dispute. — Whether retrenchment of Shri Mahabir, Winding 
Engine Operator, (Cat. V of the Wage Board Award), Banki Colliery of Messrs National 
Coal Development Corporation Ltd. with effect from 15th January. 1968 was legal and 
justified? If not, to what relief is he entitled? 

(ii) Details of the parties to the dispute including the name and address of the establish- 
ment or undertaking involved. — Employers in relation to the Banki Colliery of M/s. 
National Coal Development Corporation Limited, P.O. Banki Mogra (Distt. Bilaspur) M.P. 
and their workman, Shri Mahabir Winding Engine Operator (Cat. V. of the Wage Board 
Award). 

(iii) Name of the workman in case he himself is involved in the dispute or the name 
of the unton, if any, representing the workman or workmen in question.- Shri Mahabir. 

(iv) Total number of workmen employed in the undertaking affected. — 1250. 

(v) Estimated number of workmen affected or likely to be affected by the dispute. — 1. 
We further agree that the decision of the Arbitrator shall be binding on us. 

The arbitrator shall make his award within a period of 3 months or within such further 
time as is extended by the mutual agreement between us in writing. In case the award 
is not made within the period aforementioned, the reference to arbitration shall stand 
automatically cancelled and we shall be free to negotiate for fresh arbitration. 

Representing Employers. Representing Workman. 

(Sd.) S. P Mathur. Sd/- Mahabir (In Hindi), 

l-9-i968 
Witnesses, 

1. (Sd.) Rambilas Sobhnath (In Hindi). 

2. (Sd.) A. D. Mathur. 

1-9-68. 

(Sd.) A. S. Gupta. 

1-9-68. 

Assistant Lfibdur Commissioner (C), Bilaspur. 

INo. 8/60/68-LftIL] 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 


New Delhi, the 1th October, 1968 

S.O. 3596. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dispute 
exists between the employers in relation to the Bhaggatdih Rise Area Colliery, Post Office 
Dhansar (District phanbad) and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said dispute 
-for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section (1) of 
section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Oovemment hereby 
refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal (No. 3), Dhanbad, 
■constituted under section 7 A of the said Act. 


Schedule 

Whether the action of the management of Bhuggatdih Rise Area Colliery, Post Office 
Dhansar (Dhanbad), in dismissing Shri Kedar Pandey, Miner, with effect 
from the 14th May, 1968, was justified ? If not, to what relief is the work- 
man entitled ? 

LNo. 2/166 /68-LRIIJ 


S.O, 3597. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial disputo 
■exists between the employers in relation to the management of Khandra Colliery, Post 
Office Ukhra, District Burdwan and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said dispute for 
adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section (1) of 
section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby 
refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal. Calcutta, constituted 
■under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 


Whether the action of the management of Vishveshwari Khandra Colliery, Post 
Office Ukhra, District Burdwan in stopping from work the workmen men- 
tioned below with effect from the 26th April, 1968 was justified: — 


1. Shri Kishun Bhuian. 

2. Shri Raghu Bhuiun. 

3. Shri Prcm Bhuian, 

4. Shri Tulasi Bhuian. 

5. Shri Panchu Bhuian. 

6. Shri Rambhaju Bhuian. 

7. Shri Kashi Bhuian. 

8. Shri Ramsarup. 

9. Shri Mathura Bhuian. 

10. Shri Ram Prasad. 

11. Shri Pariag Siuian. 

12. Shri Sibu Bhuian. 

13. Shri Dhani Bhuian. 

14. Shri Hari Bhuian, 

15. Shri Saraswati Bhuian. 

16. Shri Geni Bhuian. 

17. Shri Fulia Bhuian. 

18. Shri Lakhia Bhuian, 

19. Shri Laungi Bhuian. 

20. Shri Nuntbati Bhuian. 

21. Shri Paroo Bhuian, 

22. Shri Panwa Bhuian. 

23. Shri Santi Bhuian. 

24. Shri Saniohary Bhuian, 

25. Shri Samary Bhuian, 
;26. Shri Adory Muchi. 

27. Shri Balai Muchi, 

28. Shri Baha Harijan. 

29. Shri Bhadi Dhangar. 

30. Shri Jitani Bhuian. 

31. Shri Chhotan Bhuian. 
J2. :Shri Jogeswar Tuft 


33. Shri Kanhai Majhi. 

34. Shri Muru Melhan. 

35. Shri Girija Bhuian. 

36. Shri Ratra Bhuian. 

37. Shri Parsadia Bhuian, 

38. Shri Chunna Kora. 

39. Shri Karia Bhuian. 

40. Shri Arjun Bhuian. 

41. Shri Sabo Bhuian. 

42. Shri L&kshirtan. 

43. Shri Jugal Bhuian. 

44. Shri Mahadco Bhuian. 
45c Shri Panchu Bhuian, 

46. Shri Jagadish Bhuian. 

47, Shri Madho Bhuian. 

48, Shri Duleswary. 

49. Shri SarasadtL 

50. Shri Glabi. 

51. Shri Rakhi. 

52. Shri Somary. 

53. Shri Jitani. 

54. Shri Mukhla. 

55. Shri Shrimati. 

56. Shri Kalo Bhuian. 

57. Shri Lochan. 

58. Shri Mahabir Bhuian. 

59. Shri Baleswar Bhuian. 

60. Shri M&heiidar Rajwar. 

61. Shri Hint Bhuian. 

62. Shri Hanli Bhuian. 

63. Shri Chhabi Bhuian. 

64. Shri Mantoo Bhuian. 




4662 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 [Part II— . 


65. Shri Baburam Majlii. 

66. Shri Sona Majhi. 

67. Shri Jagat Majhi. 

68. Shri Tribeni Mahato. 

69. Shri Nital Bouri. 

70. Shri Podi Bouri. 

71. Shri Bhagwat Singh, 

72. Shri Budani Kole, 

73. Shri Malati Kole. 

74. Shri Jitani Bhuian. 

75. Shri Santi Laungi. 

76. Shri Kuili Bhuian. 

77. Shri Sabo Bhuian, 

78. Shri Laungi. 

79. Shri Baldeo Bhuian. 

80. Shri Nakhian. 

81. Shri Mahabir Bhuian. 

82. Shri flaleswar Bhuian, 

83. Shri Mahendar Raj war. 

84. Shri Hiru Bhuian, 


85. Shri Manji Bhuian, 

86. Shri Chabi Bhuian. 

87. Shri Mantoo Bhuian. 

88. ShriBaburam Majhi. 

89. Shri Sona Majhi. 

90. Shri Jagat Majhi. 

91. Shri Tribeni Mahato. 

92. Shri Nitai Bouri, 

93. Shri Podi Bouri. 

94. Shri Bhagwat Singh. 

95. Shri Pod an i Kole. 

96. Shri Malati Kole. 

97. Shri Jitani. 

98. Shri Santi. 

99. Shri Laungi. 

100. Shri Kaili Bhuian. 

101. Shri Sabo Bhuiani. 

102. Shri Baldeo Bhuiani. 

103. Shri Mukhia. 


If not, to what relief are the workmen entitled ? 

[No. 6/58/68-LRn.J 

S.O. 3J98. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dispute exists 
between the employers in relation to the Ashakuty/Phularitand Colliery of Messers Ashakuty 
Coal Company Limited, Post Office, Katrasgarh, District Dhanbad ard their workmen in respect 
of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said dispute 
for adjudication ; 

New, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section (i) 
of section io of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby 
refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, constitiutcd under 
•ectlon 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

Whether the action of the management of Ashakuty/Phularit and Colliery of Messer® 
Ashakuty Coal Company Limited, Post Office Katrasgarh, District Dhanbad is retrenching the 
following workmen with effect from the dates mentioned against their names was justified ? 


S. No. 

Name of the Workmen 

Date of retrenchment 

I 

Shri Bhupen Chanda, Electrician 

Shri Tagdish Pal Singh, Electric-helper. 

Shri Lallan Singh, Elcctrlc-helpcr 

22-4-68 

2 

22-4-68 

3 

13-5-68 


If not, to what relief are the workmen entitled f 


[No. 2/154/68-LRII.] 
BALWANT SINGH, Under Secy. 


(Deptt. of Rehabilitation) 

(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 

New Delhi, the 20th September 1968 

S.O. 3599.— -In exerdse of the powers conferred by sub-section (i) of Section 3 of the 
Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 1954), the Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri Dasondha Singh, PCS, Asstt. Chief Settlement Commis- 
sioner in the Rehabilitation Department of the Punjab Government as Settlement Commis- 
sionerer in the State of Punjab for the purpose of performing, in addition to his own 
duties as Asstt. Chief Settlement Commissionr, Rehabilitation Deptt., Punjab the functions 
assigned to a Settlement Co mmi ssioner by or under the said Act in respect of (1) agricultural 
lands and shops in any rural area including houses, cattlesheds and vacant sites forming 
part of the compensation pool and (ii) the properties referred to in the Notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Works, Housing & Rehabilitation (Deptt of 
Rehabilitation) No. 3(37)/L&R-63A, dated the 5th March, 1964 

This is in supersession of the Notification of even number dated the 30th July, 1968 

[No. 3(5)/L&R-67.1 
A. G. VASWANT, 

Settlement Commissioner (A) & Ex Officio- 

Under Secy. 


issued by th« Department. 



:Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ AS VINA 20, 1890 4663 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT & COMPANY AFFAIRS 
(Department of Industrial Development) 

ORDERS 

New Delhi , the list September, 1968 

S.O, 3600/IDRA/5. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Industries 
(Development & Regulation) Act, 1951 read with rule 8' of the Central Advisory Council 
(Procedural) Rules, 1952, the Central Government hereby appoints Shri S. K. Ghosh to be 
member of the Central Advisory Council of Industries till the 3rd November, 1969, in 

E lace of Shri H. S. Singhania, and directs that the following amendment shall be made 
1 the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Industrial Development and 
■Company Affairs (Department of Industrial Development) No, S.O. 4044 dated the 4th 
November, 196V, as subsequently amended by No. S.O. 463 dated the 17th January, 1968 
and No. S.O, 1320 dated the 3rd April, 1968, namely: — 

In the said Order, for entry No. 26, relating to Shri H. S. Singhania, the following 
entry shall be substituted: — 

“26. Shri S. K. Ghosh, Chairman, Indian Jute Mills Association, Royal Exchange, 
6, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1,” 


[No. l(5)Lic,Pol,/67.] 


New Delhi , the 23rd September 1968 

S.O. 3601/1 5/IDRA/68, — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 15 of the 
Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951) and in partial modifica- 
tion of the Ministry of Industrial Development and Company Affairs (Department of 
Industrial Development) Order No. S.O, 2527/1 5/IDRA/68, dated the 6th July, 1968 the 
Central Government hereby appoints Shri Y. L. N, Achar, Deputy Director, Office of the 
Textile Commissioner, Bombay vice Dr. M. S. Srinivasan, as a member Secretary of he 
body of persons appointed to make investigation into the affairs of the following industrial 
undertakings: — 

1. The Cambodia Mills Ltd., Coimbatore. 

2. The Kaleeswarar Mills Ltd,, Coimbatore. 

3. The Palamalai Ranganathar Mills Ltd., Coimbatore. 

4. The Tamilnad Spinning Mills, Tinippur, Coimbatore Distt. 

5. Om Parasakthi Mills Ltd., Coimbatore. 

6. The Kasthuri Mills Ltd., Coimbatore. 

7. Pankaia Mills Ltd., Coimbatore. 

[No. 9(9)Lic. P 0 I./ 68 .] 


New Delhi, the 25th September 1968 

S.O. 3602/IDRA/ 6/ 9/68. — In supersession of Serial No. 21 of this Ministry’s Order 
No. IDRA/6/5/68, dated the 5th July, 1968 relating to Dr. G. S. Kasbeknr, the Central 
Government hereby appoints with effect from the date of this Order till the 4th July, 1970, 
Shri N. Srinivasan, Chairman, the Plastics Institute, Indian Section. 44 LUZ. Mylapore, 
Madras-4, as a member of the Development Council for the scheduled Industries engaged 
in the manufacture or production of Organic Chemicals, vice late Dr. G. S. Kasbcgar. 

[No. 2(4) /Dev. Council /67-LC.] 
R. C. SETHI, Under Secy. 


(Department of Industrial Development) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 23rd September 1968 

S.O. 3603/IDRA/18G/68. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 18G and 
25 of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951), and of all 



4664 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20 , 1890 [Part II — 


other powers enabling It in that behalf, the Central Government hereby makes the follow- 
ing Order further to amend the Cement Control Order, 1967, namely : — 

1. This Order may be called the Cemept Control (Sixth Amendment) Order, 1968. 

2. In the Cement Control Order, 1967, for sub-clause (b) of clause 2. the follow- 

ing sub-clause shall be substituted, namely 1 — 

“(b) ‘Controller’ means the Cement Corporation of India Limited or the Managing 
Director thereof or an officer of the Central Government, appointed as 
such by the Central Government by notification in the Official Gazette;" 

[No. F. 1-28/68-Cem.J 
K. L VTDYASAGAR. Jt. Secy. 


gfaftfiw foror rr*JT fmnr-fTFf 
(tfaMnr form form) 
wrtsr 

23 for 1 ^, 1963 

qRo wto 3 604/WTfo -fto WTT° I?o/l868 : — (foFRT (TOT foTfR) 
Wft lfd TO r, 1951 ( 1951 *FI 65) OTTT 18E5 sffc £JKI 25 % SKI SPIrT cRTT 

stpfst Jr ^ tot*? totf? tofFt TOft wfoRff =pt TOrfe ttoI jit, 

qdT tTTTT «rfon, 1967 Jr 'H’R STOT TOiftSTO % fet* fdHfefed SIT^T 

srrft T' vfl spTfd 1 : — 

1 . ^ tMt fofor (®3i srfon, 1968 °h%q r fon i 

2 . Btfefofor'srwr, i967%gtnr 2 ot-W 3 (*ar) Jr forrfefed - 

\<su -sn^rl , — 

' V fofofi’ TT TOT Bfar TOTOftTOT TORI fefHdS TT 3TOPT TTOJ 

fafeT to tor sri Tism srt sn 

TOFTC foTTO fw TOTT TO°FTT Trt srfERTOft ; ‘ 

[#° t[9)0 1—28 / 68-^ft^z] 

wt<> fommn:, 


(Department of Industrial Development) 

(INDIAN STANDARDS INSTITUTIONS) 

New Delhi, the 20th September 1968 

S.O. 360 J.— In cancellation of the Indian Standards- Institution notification published in 
the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3(ii) dated 24 August 1968 under number S.O. 2835 
dated 8 August 1968 and in partial modification of the notification published in the Gazette 
dated 3 September 1964 under number S.O. 3006 dated 23 August 1964, it is, hereby, notified 
that the standard marks for vitreous sanitary appliances (vitreous china) have been revised. The 
revised designs of the standard marks together with the titles of the - relevant Indian Standards 
and verbal description of the designs are given in the following schedule. 




Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1^8/ASVJNA 30. 1890 46^5 


These standard marks for the purpose of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification 
Marks) Act, 1952 and the rules and regulations framed thereunder shall come into force with 
effect from 29 July 1968 : 


The SchbdiUle 


Serial 

Design of the 

Product/Class of 

No. & Title of 

Verbal description of the 

No. 

Standard Mark 

Products to which 

Relevant Indian 

design of the Standard 



applicable 

Standard 

Mark 

(1) 

(2) 

( 3 ) 

( 4 ) 

( 5 ) 


1. IS : 2556 



Parti 


2 13:2556 



Vitreous sanitary IS 12556 (Part I) — The monogram of the Indian 

Standards Institution 

consisting of letters ‘ 1 ST, 
drawn in the exact style 
and relative proportions as 
indicated in col. (2), the 
number designation of the 
Indian Standard being 
superscribed on the top 
side and the relevant Part 
No. being subscribed 
under the bottom side 
of the monogram as 
indicated in the design. 

Vitreous sanitary IS :2556 (Parts II The monogram of the Indian 
appliances. to X) — 1967 Spe- Standards Institution 

eifleations for consisting of letters TSI’, 
vitreous sanitary drawn in the exact style 
appliances (vit- and relative proportions 
reous china) {first as indicated in Col. (2) 
revision). the number designation 

of the Indian Standard 
being superscribed on the 
top side of the monogram 
as indicated in the design. 


appliances (general 1967 Speciflaca- 

requirements). tion for vitreous 

sanitary appliances 
(vitreous china) 
Part I General 
requirements (first 
revision). 


[No. CMD/i3:9.J 





so. 


Nos Delhi, the 25th September 1968 


3606. The Certification Marks Licences, details of which are mentioned in the schedule given hereafter, have lapsed or their renewal deferred: 


Schedule 


SI. 

No. 

Licence No. 
and Date 

Licencee’s Name and Address 

Article /Process and the Relevant IS : 
No. 

S.O. Number and Date of 
the Gazette Notifying 
Grant of Licence 

Remarks 


d) 

(2) 

( 3 ) 

( 4 ) 

( 5 ) 

(6) 



i- CM/L-441 
31-7-19^2 


CM/L-449 

24-8-1962 


gineenng Products Ltd., Jogeshwari Three-Phase Induction Motors Up to S.O. 2629 dated 25-8-1952 Deferred after 15-8-1968 
i '.state, Ghodbunder Road, Jogesh- 10 HP only with Class ‘A’ Insula- 
wan, Bombay-60. tion — I S : 325 — . 196 1 . 

Victor ^^les Corpn., 802, Joshi Road, Rubber Insulated Cables IS: 434 S.O. 2845 dated 15-9-1952 Deferred after 31-8-1968. 
Karol Bagh, New Delhi-5 having (Parts I & II>— 1964. 
their Office at 5775, Sadar Bazar, 

Delhi-6. 


3 - CM/L-607 
H-12-1963 


4 - CM/L-739 
10-7-1964 


5 * CM/L-1019 
26-2-1965 


The Production Centre for Electric 
Motors (Govt, of India, Ministry of 
Industry), Trivalla-5 (Kerala). 

Hostess Appliances, 177, C.S.T. Road, 
Kaliva Bombay, having their office at 
164, Modi Street, Fort, Bombay- 1. 

All India Medical Corpn., Mulji Jetha 
Bldg., 185 Princess, St., Bombay-2. 


Single-Phase Small AC and Universal 
Electric Motors with Class ‘A’ In- 
sulation — IS : 996-1964 . 

Domestic Pressure Cookers (pressed) 
4, 5, 6, 8 and 12 litre capacities — 
IS: 2347—1966. 

BHC Emulsifiable Concentrates — IS : 
632—1958. 


S.O. 241 dated 18-1-1954 Deferred after 31-8-1968. 
S.O. 3487 dated 3-10-1964 Deferred after 31-7-1968 
S.O. 987 dated 27-3-1955 Deferred after 15-8-1968. 


6 ' Mfe. Co. Ltd., 23, Rayon Satin, Variety No. 204 and S.O. 3020 dated 25-9-1965 Deferred after 31-8-1968. 

12-8-1965 B.T. Road, P.O. Sukchar, (24 Par- 208 only— IS: 1453—1959. 
ganas) having their office at 37, Vive- 
ka n a nri a Road, Calcutta-7, 

ere w & Wire Products Ltd., Cotton-Covered Round Copper S.O. 2925 dated 1-101966 Lapsed after 15-8-1968. 
10-8-1968 Belur, Dstt. Howrah West Bengal. Conductors— IS: 450-1964. 


§ 


[CMD/i3:i4.] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12 , 1968 / AS VINA 20 , 1890 [Part II- 


S. O .3607 — In pursuance of sob-regulation (1) of Regulation 8 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 195;? 
as subsequently amended, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that fiftyseven licences, particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto an- 
nexed, have been renewed. 

The Schedule 


SI. 

No. 

Licence No. and 
date 

Period of Validity 

From To 

Name and Address of the Licensee 

Artide /Pro cess covered by the licence and the 
Relevant Indian Standard No. 

( 1 ) 

(a> 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

I 

CM/L-i 

8-8-1955 

16-8-68 

15-8-71 

The Aluminium Industries Ltd., No. i. Ceramic 
Factory Road, Kundara, Kerala. 

Steel-cored and plain stranded aluminium 
conductors of aid type, and sizes— IS: 398- 
1961 

2 

CM/L-136 

3-8-1959 

16-8-68 

IJ-8-69 

M/s Liberty Chemical Works, Nagarias Road, 
Mogra West, Andheri (East), Bombay. 

Sodium thiosulphate, photographic grade— 
18:246-1964 

3 

CM/L-200 

15-6-1960 

16-8-68 

15-8-69 

M/s Bharat Pulverising Mills Ltd., 589, Thiru- 
vothiyur High Road, Madras-19. 

DDT dusting powders — IS: 564-1961 

4 

CM/L-20S 

29-7-1960 

16-8-68 

15-8-69 

M/s Bengal Chemicals & Pharmaceutical Works 
Ltd., 6 Ganesh Chandra Avenue, Calcutta. 

Naphthalene— IS : 539-1955 

5 

CM/L-2I2 

25-8-1960 

1-9-68 

31-8-69 

MJs Cassava (India), 21 Gout Laha Street, Cal- 
cutta-6. 

Tea-chest metal fittings — IS: 10-1964 

6 

CM/L-213 

25-8-1960 

1-9-68 

31-8-69 

M/s Plywood Manufacturers Co-operative So- 
ciety Ltd., 1 1/3 A, Canal Circular Road, Cal- 
cutta-4. 

Tea-chcst plywood panels— IS : 10-1964 

7 

CM/L-332 

10-8-1961 

16-8-68 

15-8-69 

M/s Tata Fison Industries Ltd., Union Bank 
Building, Dalai Street, Port, Bombay-i. 

Endrin emulsifiable concentrates — IS : 1310- 
1958 


8 CM/L-430 

12-7-1962 


9 CM/L-432 
18-7-1962 


10 CM/L -440 
21-7-1962 


1 - 8-68 


1 - 8-68 


16-8-68 


31-7-69 The Indian Iron& Steel Co Ltd,, Bumpur Works Structural steel (standard quality) — IS: 226- 
P.O. Bumpur, Distt. Burdwan, West Bengal 1962 
having their Registered Office at 12 Mission 
Row, Cakutta-i . 

31-7-69 M/s Victor Cable Corporation, 7/3, G.T. Road, (;) PVC cables of 250 and 650 volts grade with 
Sahibabad, Post Office, Pasonda (Ghaziabad) copper and aluminium conductors — IS: 694 
having their Office at Sadar Bazar, Delhi. (Part I)— 1964 and 

(a) PVC insulated flexible cords. 250 volts 
grade — LS: 694 (Part II) — 1964. 

15-8-69 M/s Mysore Insecticides Pvt. Ltd., 18 Vaidya- Endrin emulsiftahle concentrates — IS: 1310- 
natha Mudali Street, Tondiarpet, Madras-21 1958 
having their Office at 31-A North Beach Road, 

Madras- r. 


"Sec, 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 


(1) 


( 3 ) 

(4) 

II 

CM/L-444 

20-8-1962 

1-9-68 

31-8-71 

12 

CM/L-44J 

20-8-1962 

1-9-68 

31-8-71 

13 

CM/L-44^ 

20-8- 1962 

1-9-68 

13-8-71 

14 

CM/L-447 

20-8- r 962 

1-9-68 

31-8-71 

ij 

CM/L-532 

1-9-68 

31-8-71 

16 

30-4-1961 

CM/L-563 

16-8-68 

15-8-69 


18-7-1963 



17 

CM/L-,565 

25-7-1963 

16-8-68 

15-8-69 

18 

CM/L-620 

17-1-1964 

1 6-8*68 

15-8-69 

19 

CM/L-672 

1-9-68 

31-8-71 

20 

14-5-1964 

CM/L-716 

1-8-68 

31-7-69 

21 

29-6-1964 

CM/L-7J7 

1-8-68 

31-7-69 

29-6-1964 

22 

CM/L-742 

21-7-1964 

16-8-68 

15-8-69 

23 

CM/L-743 

21-7-1964 

16-8-68 

15-8-69 

24 

CM/L-744 

23-7-1964 

16-8-68 

15-8-70 

*5 

CM/L-745 

24-7-1964 

l6-8—68 

15-8-69 


(5) 


' 6 ) 


■fc. 


M/s Hindustan Steel Ltd., Rourkela Steel Plant, 
Rourkela 

M/s Hindustan Steel Ltd., Rourkela Steel Plant, 
Rourkela. 

M/s Hindustan Steel Ltd., Rourkela Steel Plant, 
Rourkela. 

M/s Hindustan Steel Ltd., Rourkela Steel Plant, 
Rourkela. 

M/s Hindustan Steel Ltd,, Rourkela Steel Plant, 
Rourkela. 

M/s Bharat Pulverising Mills Private Ltd., 
Chakla Andheri-Kurla Road, Bombay-69 hav- 
ing their office at 38-A Sayani Road, Bomhay- 
28. 

M/s Devidayal Stainless Steel Industries Pvt. 
Ltd., Reay Road, Darkukhana, Bombay- 10. 

M/s Roofrite P. Ltd., Daulatabad Road, Gurgaon 
(Haryana) Near Railway Station having their 
office at Cottage No. 18, West Patel Nagar, 
New Delhi- 12. 

M/s Hindustan Steel Ltd., Rourkela Steel Plant, 
Rourkela 

M/s Steel Rolling Mills of Bengal Ltd., 28 
Strand Road, Calcutta. 

M/s Steel Rolling Mills of Bengal Ltd., 28 
Strand Road, Calcutta. 

M/s Croplife Chemicals Pvt. Ltd., 32 Foreshore 
Road, Stbpore, Howrah having their office at 
2 Sooterkin Street, Calcutta- 13. 

M/s Croplife Chemicals Pvt. Ltd., 32 Foreshore 
Road, Stbpore, Howrah having their office at 
2 Sooterkrn Street, Calcutta-13. 

M/s Bengal Potteries Ltd., 3 Pagaldanga Road, 
Calcutta having their office at 45, Tartgra 
Road, Calcutta- 1 5. 

M/s Lloyd Bitumen Products Private Ltd., 1 
Tatatola Road, Calcutta-53 having their office 
at 4A, Ryd Street, Calcutta-16, 


Structural steel (standard quality) — IS: 226- 
1962 

Structural steel (high tensile)— IS: 961-1962 

Cold rolled carbon steel sheets — IS: 513-1963 

Hot rolled carbon steel sheet and strip — IS : 
1079-1963 

Structural steel (fusion welding quality) — IS: 
2062-1962 

Paraihion emulsifiable concentrates — IS: 2129- 
1962 


Wrought aluminium utensils, grade SIC — IS : 

2I-I9S9 j j 

Bitumen felts for water-proofing and damp- 
proofing type 3 grade 1— IS: 1322-1965 


Structural steel (ordinary quality) — IS : 1977 " 
1962 

Structural steel (standard quality) — IS 226-1962 

Structural steel (ordinary quality) — IS: 1977' 
1962 

Endrin emulsifiable concentrates, — IS: 1310 
1958 

Dieldrin emulsifiable concentrates — IS: 1054* 
1962 

Porcelain insulators for overhead power lines 
(11 KV, pm type)— IS: 731-1963 

Hot applied sealing compounds for joints in 
concrete grade, ‘B’ (jet fuel resistant) — IS: 

1834-1961 


GAiEtTfi OF INDIA: OCTOBER 1 % 1968/ASVINA 2f>, 1*90 [PaktU— 


26 

CM/L-747 

27-7-1964 

1-9-68 

28-2-69 

27 

CM/L-753 

4-8-1964 

16-8-68 

15-8-69 

28 

CM/L-754 

4-8-1964 

16-8-68 

15-8-69 


M/s Radio & Electricals Mfg. Co. Ltd., Mysore 
Road, Bangalore- 1 8. 

M/s Hindusthan Twyfords Ltd., Bahadurgarh, 
Distt. Rohtak. 

M/sHindusthan Twyfords Ltd., Bahadurgarh, 
Distt Rohtak, 


29 

CM/L-756 

12-8-1964 

1-9-68 

28-2-69 

3 ° 

CM/L-763 

24-8-1964 

1-9-68 

31-8-69 

3 i 

CM/L-764 

24-8-1964 

1-9-68 

31-8-69 

32 

CM/L-769 

24-8-1964 

1-9-68 

31-8-69 

33 

CM/L -770 

24-8-1964 

1-9-68 

31-8-69 

34 

CM/L-1010 

10-2-1965 

16-8-68 

15-8-69 






M/s Shree Venkateshwara Minerals (Private) 
Ltd., 3 Elaiya Mudali Street, Tondiarpet, 
Madras-21 having their regd office at 337 
Thambu Chetty Street, Madras- 1. 

M/sKrishna Steel Industries Pvt. Ltd., 29-30, 
Vaawani Mansion, 120 Dinshaw Vacha Road, 
Ch archgate. Reclamation, P.B. No. 93-A, 
Bombay. 

Ms/ Krishna Steel Industries Pvt. Ltd.. 2U-30, 
Vaswani Mansion, 120 Dinshaw Vacha Road, 
Churchgate Reclamation, P.B. No. 83-A, 
Bombay. 

M/s RathiSteeiRolling Mills P. Ltd.,Loni Road, 
Shahdara, Delhi-32. 

M/sRathiSteelRollingMillsP.Ltd.,LoniRoad, 
Shahdara, Delhi-32. 

The Plant Protection Products (Private) Ltd., 
Kodavalur (S. Riy) Nellore Distt. having theii 
office at 5/355 Stonehousepet, NeIlore-2. 


Water meters (domestic type) wet-dial and dry- 
dial type, 15 mm, 20 mm and 25 mm sizes — 

IS : 779E-1966 

Flushing cisterns for water closets and urinals 
(valveless si phonic type) vitreous china — 

IS : 774-1964 

Vitreous sanitary appliances consisting of: 

(1) squatting pans, long pan pattern, size 
450 mm, 630 mm, 580 mm and 680 
mm; 

(2) squatting pans, Orissa pattern,size 630 & 1 

450 mm, 580 and 440 mm; 

(3) wash basins, flat back size 450 x 300 , 

mm, 550 x 400 mm and 630x450 ■ 

nun; 

(4) sinks laboratory, size 400 x 250 x 150 
mm; 

(5) urinals (bowls flat back); 

(6) wash-down 1 water dosets ; and 

(7) pedestals for wash basins — IS: 2556- 

1963 

DDT dusting powders — IS: 564-1961 


Structural steel (standard quality]) — IS: 226- 
1962 


Structural steel (ordinary quality) — IS: 1977 - 
1962 


Structural steel (standard quality^ — IS: 226- 
1962 

Structural steel (ordinary quality) — IS: 1977 - 
1962 

Endrin emulslfiable concentrates — IS" 13x0- 
1958 



Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; OCTOBER 12, lS&B/ASVl&A 20, 1890 


3J CM/L-III8 16-8-68 15-8-69 

28-7-1965 


36 CM/L-irr9 16-8-68 15-8-69 

2 8-7- 1 965 


37 

CM/L-1125 

12-8-1965 

6-8-68 

15-8-69 

38 

CM/L-1284 

27-6-1966 

1-7-68 

30-6-69 

39 

CM/L-1303 

28-7-1966 

16-8-68 

15-S-69 

4 ° 

CM/L-1306 

28-7-1966 

16-8-68 

(15-8-69 


M/s. Malwa Ram Handa & Sons, G.T. Road, Structural steel (standard quality) tested steel 
Phagwara, Distt. Kapurthala. sections of the following sizes only: 

Rods & squares 6 mm to 40mm (J' to 1 5/8') 

Flats — width 12-5 mm to 100 mm (i' to 4') 
thickness 1 • 5 mm X 25 mm. (1/16' X 

1') 

Angles: — 25mm X 25 mm x 3 mm(i'x t'X 
I/S' ) to 50 mm x 50 mm X 6 mm 
C 2 ' X 2 ' X JO 

Gate channels hexagonal bars up to 25 mm 
(1*0 — ISt 226-1962. 

M/s. Malwa Ram Handa & Sons, G.T. Road, Structural steel (ordinary quality) tested steel 
Fhagwara. Ehstt. Kapurthala. sections of the following sizes only: 

Rods & squares 6 mm to 40 mm d' to 1 5/8') 

Flats — width 12-5 mm to 100 mm (i' to 4') 
thickness 1-5 mm x 25 mm (1/16' x 
O 

Angles — 25 mm X 25 mm x 3 mm (1' X 1' 
x I/S') to 50 mm x 50 mm x 6 mm 
12' x 2' x iO 

Gate channels hexagonal bars up to 25 mm 
(I*) — IS: 1977-1962. 

The Fort William Co. Ltd., (Steel Wire & Rope (*) Steel wire ropes for winding purposes in 
Division), 6/A, G.T, Road, Konnagar, Distt. mines — IS: 1855-1961 and 

Hooghlv, West Bengal having their Regd. (1) Steel wire ropes for haulage purposes in 
Office at 14, Netaji Subhas Road,Calcutta-i. mines — IS : 1856-1961. 

M/s. National Rolling. & Steel Rope s Ltd., Sham- Steel wire ropes for general engineering pur- 
nsgar, 24 Pargaoas, West Bengal having their poses — IS : 2266-1963. 

Regd. Office at Nicco House, Hare Street, 

Calcutta- 1. 

The Everready Flashlight Company, Division of Flashlights — IS : 2083-1962. 

Union Carbide (India' Limited, Mill Road, 

Aishbagh, Lucknow (U.P.). 

M/s. Venkateshwara Agro-Chemicals & Minerals, Endrin emulsifiable concentrates — IS: 1310- 
6/303, T.H. Road, Madras-21. 1958, 


45704 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER. 12 , - 1068 / AS VINA 20 , 1890 , [PariJI 




41 

CM/L-1309 

29-7-1966 

1 6-8-68 

15-8-69 

42 

CM/L-1312 

29-7-1966 

16-8-6S 

15-8^69 

43 

CM/L-X317 

29-8-1966 

1-9-68 

31-8-69 

44 

CM/L-1319 

29-8-1966 

X-9-68 

31-S-69 

45 

CMIL-1325 

31-8-1966 

t-9-68 

31-8-69 


46 

CMfL-1327 

31-8-1966 

1-9-68 

31-S-69 

47 

CM/L-X396 

1-9-68 

28-2-70 

48 

28-Z-1967 

CM1L-I446 

16-8-68 

15-8-69 

29-5-1967 

GM/L-X474 

[3-7-1967 

1-8-68 

31-7-69 

49 

50 

CM/L-1485 

108-1967 

t- 6 - 8-68 

15-8-69 


M/s. Plant Protection Products (.Private) Ltd., Malathicn emulsifiable concentrates — 1 S: 2567 
Kodavalu [S. Rly) Nellore Distt. baying their 1963. 
office at 5/355. Stonehousepet, Nellore-2 I.AJ 3 .). 

M/s. Mysore Feeds (Pvt.) Ltd., Mysore Road, Poultry feeds, growing and laying — IS: 1734- 
Nayandahalli, Bangalore having their office at 1964. 

230, Old Tharagupal, Bangalore-2. 

M/s. Hindustan Wires Ltd., 16/5, Chowringhee Galvanized round steel armour wire — 

Road, Calcutta-13. (i) IS: 434 (Parts I & II)- 1964 and 

(it) IS: 1554 (Part ri-1964. 


M/s. Dukart & Co. Pvt. Ltd., 28/12 Prince Anwar Integral cement waterproofing compound, 
Shah Road, Calcutta-33 having their office at normal settrog — IS: 2645-1964. 


42-A, Madan Boral Lane, Calcutta- 12. 

The Premier Cable Co. Ltd., Karukutty, Eroa- 
kulam D istri c t (Kerala S tate) ha vi ng the ir Regd . 
Office at Chelur Bldg., Mahatma Gandhi 
Road, Emakvdam-6. 


M/s. Imperial Chemical Industries (India) Pvt. 
Ltd., Rishra, Distt. Hooghly, West Bengal 
having their office at ICI House, 34, Chow- 
ringhee, Calcutta-16. 


PVC insulated cables with aluminium con- 
ductors of the following types : 

250/440 vein grade 

CO Single core (PVC sheathed) 

(it) Single core (unsheathed) 

(m) Twin core with E.C.C. 

(id) Three core flat 
(v) Three core circular. 

650/1100 volts grade 

(i) Single core (PVC sheathed) 

(if) Single core (unsheathed) 

(iff) Three core Sat 
(in) Three core circular — 

IS : 694 (Part II)-I964. 

Low density polythene pipe for cold water ser- 
vices, normal gauge and heavy gauge — IS; 
3076 (Partl)-i9>65 


M/s.KrishiRasayan, Ranital, Distt. Balasore Endrin emulsifiable concentrates — IS: 1310- 
(Orissa). 1958, 

M/s. Indian Crafts & Industries, 17/101, Ram Ammunition bcots for general purposes — IS: 

Narain Bazar, Kanpur. 583-1954. 

M/s, Goa Pesticides Private Ltd.,Fatorda,Margao Dieldrin emulsifiable concentrates' — IS: 1054- 
(Goa) having thdr Registered Office at 1962. 

‘ Chowg'-de House, Mormugao Harbour, Goa. 

M/s. Foods, Fats and Fertilizers Ltd.,Tanuku Malted milk food containirg cocoa potvder — 
Road, TadePalligudem, West Godavari Distt. 18:2003-1962. 

(A.P.) having their Office at 115-B3N.S.C. Bose 
Road, Madras- 1. 


Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 



(I) 


( 2 ) 


(3) 


(4) 


(5) 


( 6 ) 


51 

GM/L-1486 

10-8-1967 

16-8-68 

15-2-69 

52 

GM/L-1487 

10-8-1967 

10-8-68 

31-7-69 

53 

CM/L-1488 

10-8-1967 

16-8-68 

15-8-69 

54 

CM/L-1493 

16-8-1967 

16-8-68 

15-8-69 

55 

CM/L-1502 

30-8-1967 

30-8-68 

15-8-69 

56 

CM/L-1505 

31-8-1967 

1-9-68 

31-8-69 

57 

CM/L-1571 

23-11-1967 

1-9-68 

31-8-69 


M/s. Tata Fi son Industries Ltd.) Plot No. 94, Copper oxychloride water dispersible powder 
Industrial Estate, Ambattur, Madras-58. concentrates — IS: 1507-1966. 

M/s. Ashwin Industries, Samlaya, Distt. Baroda. 18-litre square tins— IS : 916-1966. 

M/s. Assam Bengal Veneer Industries Pvt. Ltd., Tea-chest metal fittings — IS: 10-1964. 

32, Canal South Road, Calcutta-15 having their 
office at 9, Ctive Row, Calcutta- 1. 

M/s.Entoma Insecticides & Agro-Chemicals Endrin emulsifiable concentrates— IS : 1310- 
(Kerala), A-3 Shed, Industrial Estate, Olava- 1958, 
kot, Palghat-2 having their Office at'Ramkirpa’ 

Yakkara Road, Palghat-i (Kerala). 

M/s. New Metal Worksi56-E, Rasul Jiwa Com- 18-litre square tins. — IS: 916-1966. 
pound, Clark Road, Jacob Circle, Bombay-11. 

M/s. Usha Martin Black (Wire Ropes) Ltd., Steel wire for the core of steel-cored aluminium 
Tatisilwai, Ranchi, Bihar. conductors for overhead power transmission 

purposes — IS: 398-1961. 

M/s. CacharPlywood Ltd., Goombirat Tea Estate, Tea-chest plywood panels — IS: 10-1964. 

P.O. Oliviacherta, Distt. Cachar, Assam. 


[CMD/I3II2.1 


— ni«vd] (fe&t 'oi VNiAsV/Bstet 'it aaSoiao ^vidm bd am 



"Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12 , 1968 /ASVINA 20 , 1 * 90 - 4673 


S. O. 3608. — In pursuance of sub-regulations (2) and (3) of regulation 3 of the Indian 
Standards Inhibition (Certification Marks) Regulations, 195s, the Indian Standards Institution 
hereby notifies that the Indian Standard(s), particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto 
annexed, have been eitablished during the period 1 to 15 September, 1968. 

The Schedule 


SI. No. andTitle of the Indian No. and Title of the Indian 
No. Standard Established Standard or Standards, if 

any, superseded by the 
new Indian Standard 

Brief Particulars 

12 3 

4 


1 


IS: 265-1967 Specification 
for ordinary, rapid-hard- 
ening and low heat port- 
land cement ( Second 
Revision)) 


*13:269-1958 Specification 
for ordinary, rapid-hard- 
ening and low heat port- 
land cement {Revised) 


This standard covers the 
manufacture and chemical 
and physical requirements 
of three types of Portland 
cements (Price Rs. 4-00). 


2 


IS: 319-1968 Specification 
for free-cutting brass 
rods and section; ( Second 
Revision) 


*IS:3I9-I962 Specification 
for free cutting brass rods 
and sections {Re vised) 


This standard covers the re- 
quirements forlcaded brass 
rods and sections having 
a minimum cross-sectional 
dimension not less than 
1-5 mm suitable for high 
speed screw cutting and 
turning work, (Price B«. 
3 ' 50 ). 


•3 15:401-1967 Code of prac- 18:401-1961 Code ofpracti- This code of practice covet 
ticcfor preservation of ce for preservation of tim- types of preservatives, thei 

timber ( Second revision) her ( Revised ) brief descriptions, method 

of treatment, and the 
type and choice of treat- 
ment, for different specie 
of timber for a numhe , 
of uses. (Price Rs. 8*50). 


4 15:526-1968 Specification IS : 526-1954 Specification for This standard prescribes 
fot oil of palmarosa palmarosa oil and ginger the requirements and the 

( first revision) J , grass oil methods of sampling and 

test for oil of palmarosa. 
The oil is used in per- 
fuming soaps and chewing 
tobacco. It also serves 
as a raw material for the 
production of high-grade 
geraniol and its esters 
(Price Rs. 3*50). 

j 1.5:843-1968 Specification IS 1843-1956 Specification for This standard covers the 
for smith’s tongs {first smith’s tongs requirements for smith’s 

revision) tangs for general use. (Price 

R9. 5- 00). 


Note: — With a view to facilitate change over by Indian Standards Institution Certification 
Marks licensees — 

(i) IS : 269-1958 shall remain in force concurrently with IS : 269-1967 upto 31 
December, 1968, and 

(ii) IS : 319- 1962 shall remain in force concurrently with IS : 319-1968 upto 30 November 
1968. 






4674 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12 , 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 [ftuu3-~ 

1 2 3 4 


6 18:1365-1968 Specification 
for slotted countersunk 
head and slotted raised 
countersunk head screws 
(diameter range r • 6 to 20 
mm) ( Secondremsion ) 


IS:i365-i 966 Specification 
for slotted countersunk 
head machine screws (re- 
vised) 


This standard covers the 
requirements for slotted 
countersunk head and Blot- 
ted raised countersunk 
head screws in the diameter 
ranee 1-6 to 20 mm for 
both coarse and fine 
pitch screw threads 

specified in IS 14218- 

1967. (Price Rs. 3-50). 


7 IS:i366-i968 Specification 18:1366-1962 Specification This standard covers th* 
for slotted cheese head for slotted round and requirements of slotted 

screws (diameter range cheese hcadmachinc screws cheese head screws in 

i -6 to 20 mm)(first re- the diameter range 1 -6 

vision ) to 20 mm for both coarse 

and fine pitches of screw 
threads specified in IS 142 18- 
1967 (Price Rs. 3-50). 


8 IS : 1500-1968 Methods for IS 11500-1959 Method for This standard prescribes 
brinell hardness test for brinell hardness teBt for method of conducting 

steel (first revision) steel brinell hardness (test on 

steel. (Price Rs. 5 -oo). 


9 IS :i724-i968 Specification 18:1724-1960 Methods of This standard prescribes 
for wooden warp bobbins specifying and testing var- requirements of wooden 
for rabbeth spindles (first- \ nished and enamelled warp bobbins for rabbeth 

revision ) J ring rabbeth bobbins for spindles for use on ring 

cotton mills spinning frames (having 

lifts from 127 to 254 
mm) for spinning of 
cotton and staple fibre 
yarns. (Price Rs. 5-50). 


10 ISU754-1968 Method for IS:i754-i96i Method for This standard applies to 
verification of Vickers calibration of Vickers the ycrificar'en of testirg 

hardness testing machines hardness testing machines. machines for determinine 

( first revision) Vickers hardness. (Price 

Rs. 2-50). 


11 


IS :2020 (Pan I)-i968 
Methods of chemical ana- 
ysis of sillcochromium 
Part I analysis of silicon 
and chromium 


This standard prescribes 
methods for the analysis 
of silicon and chromium 
in silicochromfum in 
the ranges specified in 
18:2024-1962 (Price Rs. 
2-50). 


IS .'2281-1968 Method for 
verification of brinell 
hardness testing machin- 
es (first revision) 


18:2281-1962 Method for 
calibration of brinell 
hardness testing machines 


This standard specifies 
two methods namely 
direct, and indirect veri- 
fication of testing machines 
for determining Brinell 
hardness (Price Rs.2-50). 


13 IS : 4048-1966 Density- 
composition tables for 
aqueous solutions of sul- 
phuric acid 


This standard furnishes 
table which correlate 
density with composition 
of aqueous solutions of 
sulphuric acid. It is in- 
tended to assist in deter- 
mining the strength of 
an aqueous solution' of 
sulphuric acid of known 
density and in preparing 
solutions of specific stren- 
gth. (Price Rs. 13 -00) 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 4675 


1 


2 


3 


4 


14 IS :4049-i96R Specification 
for formed ends for tanks 
and pressure vessels 


15 IS 14218 (.Part II)-i967 
ISO Metric screw threads 
Patt II Pitch diameter com- 
binations 


16 IS 14218 (Patt III)-I967 
ISO Metric screw threads 
Part III Basic dimensions 
for design profiles 


17 IS :4522-l968 Specification 
for heat resistant alloy 
steel castings 


t8 IS: 4 S 89 -i 96 8 Specification 
for ball clays for ceramic 
industry 


19 IS : 4601 (Part I)-t 968 Navi- 

gation lights for large 
sea-going potver-driven 
vessels 

Part I Positioning and scre- 
ening oflights 

20 18:4.639-1968 Specification 

for liuil-holding device 
for artificial limbs 


2t IS 14611-1967 Specification 
for metallic zinc powder 
(zinc dust) 


22 18:4613-1968 Specification 
for Javelins 


This standard specifies 
the boundary di mens' ons 
of dished and flanged, 
pressed or spun ends com- 
monly used as end closure 
of pressure vessels, re- 
ceivers, tanks and similar 
equipments. (Price 

Rs-3-jro) 

This standard specifies a 
series of diameter and 
pitch combinations for 
ISO metric screw threads 
in the diameter range I to 
300 mm. (Price Rs.2‘50) 

This standard gives the 
basic dimensions for 
design profiles for ISO 
metric screw threads 
in the diameter range 
1 to 300 mm. (Price 
Rs. 5- 00) 

This standard covers the 
requirements for heat 
resistant alloy steel cast- 
ings for use at tempera- 
tures 600° to 1 ijo°C. 
(Price Rs. 7 -oo) 

This standard prescribes 
the requirements and 
the methods of test and 
sampling for ball clays 
used in ceramic industry. 
(Price Rs. 8- 00) 

This standard lays down 
the details for the 
positioning and screening 
of navigation lights. 
(Price Rs. 4‘oo) 

This standard ' specifies the 
requirements pertaining 
to material shape, dimen- 
sions, workmanship and 
finish of pencil-holding 
terminal device. (Price Rs. 
2- 00) 

This standard prescribes 
the requirements and the 
methods of sampling and 
test for metallic zinc 
powder commercially 
known as ‘zinc dust* 
for use in various in- 
dustries. (Price Rs. S' jo) 

This standard lays down 
material!, dimensional and 
manufacturing require- 
ments of javelins for 
men’s and women’s events. 
(Price Rs. 2-50). 



4676 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12 , 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 [Part II— 


1 


2 


3 


4 


23 IS:46i5'i968 SoedflcatlonT' 
for switch socket-outlets 
(rni-interlocking type) 


24 18:4630-1968 Soecificatlon 
for barbell set 


25 18:4631-1968 Code of 
practice for laying of 
epoxy resin floor toppings 


26 IS : 4632-1968 Specification 
for square sliders for 
stitch regulators for sew- 
ing machines for house- 
hold purposes 


27 18:4636-1968 Method for 
determination of colour 
fastness of textile materi- 
als to dry-heat treatments 


28 13:4637-1968 Method for 
determination of colour 
fastness of textile materi- 
als to steam underpres- 
sure 


This standard covers the 
requirements for switch 
socket-outlets of the 
non- interlocking type of 
the surface and flush type 
(shuttered and non-shut- 
tered) having ratings up 
to and including 30 amper- 
es and suitable for use 
on ac and dc circuits 
at rated voltages not 
exceeding 250 volts. 
(Price Rs. 7 *50) 

This standard lays down 
material, dimensional, 
manuf a cturing, work- 
manship and finish, and 
performance requirements 
of barbell set, (Price 
Rs. 2 *oo)' 

This standard deals with 
the method of laying 
epoxy resin Jointless 
floor toppings and the 
precautions to be taken 
while laying them. (Price 
Rs. 3-50) 

This standard specifies the 
requirements for two 
types of square sliders for 
stitch regulators for sew- 
ing machines for house- 
hold purposes. (Price 
Rs. 2-50) 

This standard prescribes a 
method for determining 
the resistance of the 
colour of textiles in all 
forms to the action of 
dry-heat as employed in 
processes designed to 
give textiles stability of 
dimensions or shape, 
such as pleating and 
setting. It is mainly appli- 
cable to synthetic fibres 
and textiles containing 
synthetic fibres. (Price 
Rs. 2 ’ 00 ) 

This standard prescribes a 
method for determining 
the resistance of the colour 
of textiles of all kinds 
and in all forms to the 
action of steam under 
pressure. The materials 
are not pleated during 
test and it is emphasised 
that it is not intended for 
assessing the quality of 
pleating process. (Price 
Rs. 2-50) 



Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12. 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 4677 


2 


29 18:4641-1968 Method for 
describing and designating 
knotted netting for fishing 
nets 


30 18:4642-1968 Specification 

for oall, pebble and tube 
mills 

31 IS 4643-1968 Specification 

forsuction wrenches for 
fire brigade use 


32 13:4644-1968 Code of safety 
for benzene, toluene and 
xylene 


33 13:4645-1968 Code of prac- 
tice for storage of paper 
and board 


34 IS '.4646 (Part I) -1968 Me- 
thods of chemical analysis 
of copper-phosphorous 
brazing alloys 
Part I Analysis for silver 
and copper 


35 13:4647-1968 Specification 
for detachable steel 
ladder forlnland vessels 


36 13:4648-1968 Guide for 
electrical layout in resi - 
dential buildings 




This standard is intended 
to facilitate the exchange 
of information between 
purchasers and suppliers 
of knotted netting used 
for making into fishing 
nets. (Price Rs, 2*00 

This standard covers ball 
and tube mills used for 
fine grinding. (Price 
Rs. 4-00) 

This standard lays down 
the requirements re- 
garding materials, shape 
and dimensions, con- 
struction and workman- 
ship of conventional (fixed) 
and universal (law) type 
of suction wrenches used 
by the Fire Services. 
(Price Rs. 2-50) 

This standard prescribes a 
code of safety for benzene, 
toluene and xylene. It 
describes the properties 
and essential infor- 
mation for their safe 
handling and use. (Price 
Rs. 6-50) 

This standard lays down the 
recommended practices 
to be followed for the 
storage of paper and 
board. (Price Rs. 2-00) 

This standard prescribe’* 
methods for chemical ana- 
lysis of silver and copper 
in various grades of cop- 
per-phosphorus brazing 
alloys as specified - in . 
IS 12927-1964. (.Price Rs. 
2-50). 

This standard gives the 
dimensions and material 
for the detachable type 
steel ladders used as 
access to holds in inland 
vessels. (Price Rs. 2*00) 

This guide prescribes, for 
single family dwellings 
the electrical installations 
needed to provide satis- 
factory facilities by the 
use of electricity . While 
thiB guide is primarily 
intended to apply to 
single family dwellings, 
the criteria are also 
applicable to the Indivi- 
dual dwellings of multi- 
family residence* in so 
far as the letter are 
self contained. 





4678 the gazette of india: October 12, 1968 /asvina 20, is$o fp>Krii~ 


X 


% 


3 


4 


37 IS: 4649-1968 Specification 
for adaptors for flexible 
steel conduits 


38 IS 1 4652-1068 Specification 
for ethyl p-hydroxybenz- 
atc for cosmetic industry 


39 IS: 4653-1968 Specification 
for Methyl p-hydroxy- 
berizoate for cosmetic in- 
dustry 


40 IS: 4655-1968 Method for 
determination of iron and 
chromium in textiles 


41 18:4656-1968 Specification 
for form vibrators for 
concrete 


42 IS : 4659-1968 Specification 
for wire reel tor inland 
vessels 


43 IS: 4668-1967 Specification 
for ammonium nitrate for 
explosives 


44 IS: 4673-X968 Specification 
for wick feed lubricators 


This guide is applicable for 
low voltage systems up 
to 250 V both ac and dc. 
(Price Rs. 5'5o) 

This standard specifies 
the requirements for 
adaptors of clamp and 
solid types for flexible 
steel conduits intended 
for the protection of 
cables in electrical ins- 
tallations. (Price Rs. 3- 50) 

This standard prescribes 
the requirements and 
the methods of sampling 
and test for ethyl p- 
hydroxybenzoate for cos- 
metic industry. (Price 
Rs. 4- 00) 

This standard prescribes 
the requirements and the 
methods of sampling and 
test for methyl p-hydroxy- 
benzoate for cosihetic in- 
dustry. (Price Rs. 4 ■ 00) 

Tills standard prescribes 
method for determination 
of iron and chromium 
present in textile materials, 
especially dyed in mineral 
khaki and olive green 
shades. (Price Rs. 2'5o) 

This standard lays down 
requirements for material, 
sizes, construction and 
performance of from 
vibrators for concrete. 
(Price Rs,3‘5o). 

Tins standard specifies 
the shape, dimensions 
and material for wire 
reel fitted on board inland 
vessels. 

(Price Rs. 2-00) 

This standard prescribes 
Che requirements and 
the methods of sampling 
and test for ammonium 
nitrate intended prima- 
rily for use in explosives. 
(Price Rs. 5-56). 

This standard specifies 
the requirements for two 
types of wicik feed lubri- 
cators for general use. 
(Price Rs. 2 do) 




Sec, 3(li)] THE GAZETTE OF TNDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASVINA 20, 1890 4679 


I 

2 

3 

4 

45 18:4675-1968 Specification 
for light split-hook device 
for artificial limbs 


This standard specifies the 
requirements pertaining 
to material, shape, dimen- 
sions, workmanship and 
finish for light split- 

hook terminal device. 

(Price Rs. 2-00) 

46 

IS:4676-i968 Specification 
fpr workshop tool-holding 
device for artificial limbs 


This standard specifies the 
requirements pertaining 
to material shape, dimen- 
sions, workmanship and 
finish for workshop 

tool-holding terminal 

device. (Price Rs. 2- 00) 

47 

IS:4fi77-t968 Specification 
for steering appliance for 
artificial limbs 


This standard specifies 

the rcpuireipcnts pertain- 
ing to materials, shape, 
dimensions, workman- 

ship and finish for steer- 
ing appliance terminal 

device. (Price Rs. 2-00) 

48 

18:4678-1968 Specification 
for universal device for 
artificial limbs 


'Phis standard specifics the 
requirements pertaining 
to material, shape, dimen- 
sions, workmanship, finish 
and performance for un- 
iversal terminal device. 
(Price Rs. 2-00). 

49 

18:4679-1968 Specification 
for spatula, plaster, dental, 
curved and straight 


This standard specifies 

the requirements for 

dental plaster spatula, 
curved and straight. 

(Price Rs. 2-00) 

50 

18:4680-1968 Specification 
for Spatula, wax, dental, 

No. 2 


This standard specifies 
the requirements for 

dental wax spatula No. 2. 
(Price Rs. 2- 00) 

5i 

IS:468i-I 968 Method for 
determination of wrinkle 
recovery of fabrics (by 

measuring crease recovery 
angle) 


This standard prescribes a 
method for determination 
of wrinkle recovery of 

fabrics by determining 
the angle of recovery 

after the removal of 
creasing force. The 

method is especially in- 
tended for apparel fabrics. 
(Price Rs. 2 '50) 


Copies of these Indian Standards arc available, for sale with the Indian Standards Insti- 
tution, Manuk Bhavan, 9 Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, New Delhi-i and also its branch offices 
at (1) Bombay Mutual Terrace, Sandhurst Bridge, Bombay-7, (ii) Third und Fourth Floors, 
5 Chowringhee Approach, Calcutta 13, (iii) Second Floor, Sathyamurthi Bhavan, 54 General 
Patters Road, Miira,. 2 and (iv) 117/41HB, Sarvodya Nagar, Kanpur, 


[CMD/13:^] 



S.O. 3609— In pursuance of regulation 4 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955, the Indian Standards 
Institution hereby notifies that amendment(s) to the Indian Standard(s) given in the schedule hereto annexed have been issued under the powers conferred 
by the sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 3 of the said Regulations. 

The Schedule 


SL 

No. 

No. and Title of the Indian 
Standard amended 

No, and Date of 
Gazette Notifica- 
tion in which the 
establishment of the 
Indian Standard 
was notified 

No, and Date 
of the 

Amendment 

Brief particulars of the 

Amendment 

Date from which th e 
amendment shall 
have effe ct 

(1) 

(2) 

( 3 ) 

( 4 ) 

(5) 

( 6 ) 

I 

IS: 10-1964 Specification for Plywood 
tea-chests (Second revision) 

S.O. 229 dated 

16 January 1965 

No. 1 

April 1968 

In addition to including an additional size 
of 40x40x40 cm. for plywood tea-chests 
which is now extensively used for packing 
tea, the Wood Products Sectional Com- 
mittee reviewed certain other provisions 
of the standard which relate to thickness 
of plywood, metal fittings, and compres- 
sion test, etc., and decided to issue this 
amendment. 

1 October 1968 

2 

18:203-1963 Specification for dry 
batteries for flashlights (replied) 

S.O. 2595 dated 

1 August 1964 

No. 3 

October 1968 

Clause 2*0 has been substituted by a new 
one. 

1 October 1968 

3 

IS: 220- 1959 Specification for ferro- S.O. 2960 dated 
gaOo tannate fountain pen ink 10 December i960 
(o- 1 per cent iron content) (revised^) 

No. 2 

September 1968 

(Reprint of June 1966, Page 16, clause C-I ■ I, 
informal table, third line from the top) 
Substitute ‘Phenol (conforming to I Sr 
538-1955) 1-0 g 5 for ‘Provisional dya 
(see C-I - 1-2) As advised by supplier’. 

5 September 1968 

4 

18:226-1962 Specification for struc- 
turalsteel (standard quality) (Third 
revision) 

S.O. 1760 dated 

29 June 1963 

No. 2 

July 1968 

(Page 8, clause 7-1-2, line 2) — Substitute 31 July 1968 
‘40 tonnes’ for ‘25 metric tonnes’. 

5 

IS 0180-1962 Specification for mild 
steel wire for general engineering 
purposes (revised) 

S.O. 1421 dated 

25 May 1963 

No. 1 

September 1968 

(i) Clause 5- i(c) has been amended. 

(a) Table II and clause 13- 1 have been 
substituted by new ones. 

6 September 1968 

6 

181498-1963 Grading for vacuum 
pan sugar (plantation white) 

(second revision) 

S.O. 2370 dated 

24 August 1963 

No. 3 

September 1968 

Clause 7* 2(d) has been substituted by anew 
one. 

15 September 1968 


4680 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968 /ASVINA 20, 1890 [Part II- 



7 IS: 556 -I 96 o Specification for Lee- S.O. 1463 dated No. 4 ^ jClaase'j2-o'hi3 beeo'Jsubstitnted Jby a new 1 October 1968 

lanche type radio batteries (revised) 11 June i960 October 1968 one. 

8 18:562-1962 Specification for BHC S.O. 3593 dated No. 3 Anew claue 3 *i-i-i ha; b;m]aii;d. 1 October - ] 1968 

water dispersible powder concent- 1 December 1962 October 1968 
rates (second revision). 

9 18:632-1966 Specification for BHC S.O. 469 dated No. 1 A new clarse 2-I-I-I tm been ali:i. r October 1968 

emulsifiable concentrates (second 11 February 1967 October 1968 
revision ) 

10 18:961-1962 Specification for struc- S.O. 415 dated No. 2 Clauses 0-3, 04, i-i, i-i-i, 3-1-1, 5-1, 31 July 196S 

tural steel (high tensile) (revised) 1 February 1964 July 1968 5-2 and 9- 1 have been amended. 

11 IS: r 19 0-1957 Specification for twin S.O. 1349 dated No. 3 (Page 3, clause 4-5 and Fig. 1)— Delete the 1 October 1968 

wire healds for use in cotton and 12 July 1938 October 1968 clause and the figure and re-number ‘Fig. 

silk weaving (excluding jacquard 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7’ as ‘Fig. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 

and fancy weaving) 6’ respectively wherever they appear in 

the standard. 

12 IS: 123 7-1959 Specification for cement S.O. 485 dated No. 3 [Page 3, clause 0-6, last but one line (page 4 1 Octobe'r 1968 

concrete flooring tiles 27 February t96o October 1968 of the Reprint)]— Substitute ‘B.S. 1197: 

1955* for *B. 8.1107-1955’. 

13 IS: 1 293-1967 Specification for three- S.O. 520 dated No. 1 (Page 25, table 7, dimension ‘V’ against 5 A 1 October 1968 

pin plugs and sock;t-out-lets 10 February 1958 October 1968 rating)— Substitute ‘26-33’ for ‘36-33*. 

(first revision) 

14 13:1370-1965 Specification for S.O. 1081 dated No. 1 (Page 12, clause C-5- 1, line 2) — -Substitute 1 October 1968 

friction surface rubber transmission 9 April 1966 October 1968 ‘25 mm/min to 125 mm/miu’for ‘25 mm/ 

belting (revised) min to 12-5 mm/min’. 

15 IS:i8o4-i96i Specification for fibre S.O. 2011 dated No. 2 (Page 8, clause B-i, line 2)— Substitute 1 September 196S 

cores for steel wire ropes 26 August 1961 September 1968 ‘94° C’ for ‘200° F’. 

16 IS:i866-i96i Code of practice for S.O. 416 dated No. 1 (t) Clauses 0-3, i-i, 3-0-2 and 6-2 have 1 October 1968 

maintenance of insulating oil 10 February 1962 October 1968 been amended 

(it) Clause 6 - 1 - 1 has been substituted by a 
new one. 

17 IS:i 885 (Part XII) — 1966 Electro- S.O. 2789 dated No. 1 Clauses 2-1 and 2-3 have been substituted 31 August 1968 

technical vocabulary Part XII 19 August 1967 August 1968 by new ones. 

Ferromagnetic oxide materials 

18 IS:i 892-I962 Code of practice for S.O. 483 dated No. 1 (») Clauses 3-2, 4-2- 1- 1, 4-2- 1-2, 6-2- 1, 1 October 1968 

site investigations for foundations 16 February 1963 October 1968 B-2-I-2 and Appendix A have been 

amended. 

(if) Clause 3-5-1 and footnotes at Page 14 
have been substituted by new ones. 


Sec. 3 (il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12 , 1968 / AS VINA 20 , 1890 4681 


(I) 


( 2 ) 


(3) 


19 IS :i 39 S' i 95 i Sp reification for cotton S.O. 635 dated 

tape nessar, grey or dyed. 3 March 1962 

20 IS:i936-i96i Specification for inset S.O. 3100 dated 

mail wire healds for use in cotton, 13 October 1962 
silk, woollen and worsted weaving 
(excluding jacquard and fancy 
weaving), 

21 18:2071-1962 Methods of high S.O. 483 dated 

voltage testing. 16 February 1963 

22 13:2087-1956 Sprcification for S.O. 4023 dated 

square tins for general purposes 31 December 1966 
(i'3msed). 

23 18:2266-1963 Specification for steel S.O. 3590 dated 

wire ropes for general engineering 28 December 1963 
purposes. 

24 IS :2567-i963 Specification for Mala- S.O. 1102 dated 

thion emalsifiable concentrates. 28 March 1964 

25 13:2596-1954 Specification for bulbs S.O. 1840 dated 

(lamps) for miners’ cap-lamps. 30 May 1964 

26 2815-1964 Specification for slotted S.O. 4120 dated 

tube sampler. 5 December 1964 

27 13:2922-1964 , Specification for S.O. 1152 dated 

wooden tent mallets. 10 April 1965 

28 fS:29?S-i965 Specification for cold S.O. 2042 dated 

forged steel rivets for cold closing. 26 June 1965 

29 13:3299-1965 Specification for S.O. 10S1 dated 

oscillating rock shafts for sewing 9 April 1966 
machines for househofd purposes. 

30 15:3319-1965 Specification for sur- S.O. 2602 dated 

gical scalpels with detachable blades 27 August 1966 
(bard packer type). 


(4) 


(5) C«) 


No. 1 Clauses 7-4 and A'3'3have been substituted 31 August 1968 

August 1968 by new ones. 

No. 4 (Page 3, clause 4-5 and Fig. 1) — Delete the 1 October 1968 

October 1968 clause and the figure and re-number 

‘Fig. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7A, 7B, 8 and 9’ as ‘Fig. 

1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6A, 6B, 7 and 8’ respectively 
wherever they appear in the standard. 

No. 1 Clause 4-2-21 and Fig. 1 have been sub- 15 September 1968 

September 1968 stituted by new ones. 

No. 1 (0 Clauses 4- 3- 1, 4- 3- 4 and Fig. iB and iD 31 August 1968 

August 1968 have been amended. 

(it) Clause 4-9 has been substituted by a 
new one. 

No. 4 Tables I, II, III, IV, V and VI have been 31 August 1968 

August 1968 amended. 


No. 2 Clause D-3' 3 has been substituted by a 1 October 1968 

October 1968 new one. 

No. 2 Second sentence of clause 0-5 and note 6 September 1968 

September 1968 under table III have been substituted by 
new ones. 

No. 2 (Page 4, Table 1, third entry under column 1 September 1968 

September 1968 heading ‘Sampler for Bagged Grain’) — 

substitute ‘0-75’ for ‘T. 

No. 1 Fig. 1 has been substituted by a new one 1 October 1968 

October 1968 

No. 1 (Page 8, table 3, fifth column, third entry' 9 September 1968 

September 1968 from the top)— substitute T- 25’ for ‘2-12’ 

No. 2 Clause 6-2 has been substituted by a new 1 October 1968 

October 1968 one. 

No. 1 (Page 3, clause 2-2) — delete ‘or 2- 6’. 15 September 1968 

September 1968 


468a THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1968/ASV1NA 20, 1890 [Part II, 



31 IS.3+55- i 966 Tolerances for plain S.O. 2417 dated No. 1 Tables 9, 10 and 11 have been amended 1 October 1968. 

limit gauges. 22 July 1967 October 1968 

32 IS 13575-1966 Method for determina- S.O. 241 dated No, 1 (Page 8, Note under ib-i-'i; and page 9, 1 October 1968. 

t.on of bundle strength (tenacity) 21 January 1967 October 1968 Note under 10-1*2) — Substitute ‘9 ,kgf. 

of cotton fibres. * cm (8 Ibf. in) ’/or *r- 5 kgf.can (8 Ibf. in)’. 

33 18:3843-1966 Specification for steel S.O. 1325 dated No. 1 {Page 4,, table 1, col. 5,. entry against SI. No. 1 October 1968. 

back flap hinges. 15 April 1967 October 1968 (t)]— , Substitute ‘St 43-S of IS:226-I962*’, 

for ‘Steel B of IS 1226- 1 962*’. 

34 18:3938-1967 Specification for' S.O. 2950 dated No. 1 Clause 6- 1-2-2 has been substituted By a 15 September 1968. 

electric wire rope hoists. 26 August 1967 ' September 1968 new one. 

35 IS 1423 1-1967 Specification for locks> S.O. 287 dated No. 1 Clauses 6-1 and 12-3 have been amended. 1 October 1968. 

miller type. , 20 January 1968 October 1968 

36 IS:4333 (Part II) -1967 Methodsof S.O. 683 dated No. 1 (Page 5, clause 3-3- 1- f,line 2) — Substitute 1 September 1968. 

analysis for goodgraitts Part II 24 February 1968 September 196S ‘suitably’ for ‘suitable’. 1 
Moistuie. 

37 rSt43 43 -1967 Specification for needle S.O. 683 dated No. 1 (Page 6, table 2, fifth column) — Substitute I October 1968. 

bar links for sewing machines for 24 February 1968 October 1968 the foil owing for the existing entries ; 

household purposes. D 

15-554 

13-005 


Copies of these amendment slips are available with the Indian St andar ds Institution, ‘Manak Bhavan’, 9, Bahadur Shah Zafiar Marg, New Delhi-i and 
also its branch offices at(i) Bombay Mutual Terrace, Sandhurst Bridge, Bombay-7, (£i) Third and Fourth Floors,’^ Chowringheu Approach, Calcutta-13, 
(iii) Second Floor, Sathymurthy Bhavan, 54 General Patters Road, Madras, (iv) ir7/4i8-B Sarvodaya Nagar, Kanpur, and (v) Industrial Estate, Administra- 
tive Building, Sa n at n agar, Hyderabad. 


Building, Sa n at n agar, Hyderabad. 


[CMD/i 3 :5.] 



SBC. 3(li>] THE GAZETTE: OF INDIA: OCTOBER 12, 1 968 /AS VINA 20, 1990 


4 684 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCT. 12, 1968/ASVINA 30, 1890 [Part II— Sbc. 3(H)] 


New Delhi, the 2 6 th September 1968 

S.O. 3610.— In pursuance of sub-rulc(i) of rule 4 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certifica- 
tion Marks) Rules, 1955 the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that the Standard 
Mark(s) , design(s) of which together with the verbal description of the design(s) and the title(s) 
of the relevant Indian Standard(s) are given in the Schedule hereto annexed, have been 
specified. 

These Standard Mark(s) for the purpose of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification 
Marks) Act, 1952 and the Rules and Regulations framed thereunder, Bhall come into force with 
effect from the dates shown against each : 

The Schedule 


SI. 

No, 

Design of 
the 

Standard 

Mark 

Product/Class of 
Product 

No. & Title of tho 
Relevant Indian 
Standard 

Verbal description of 
the Design of the 
Standard Mark 

Date of 
Effect 

I 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 


1 IS : 2635 



dc electric welding 
generators. 


2 IS : 4064 Air-break switches 
and composite units 
of air-break switch- 
I I I es and fuses for 

I |«nl M voltages not exceed- 
I ing 1000 volts. 


IS : 2635-1966 Spe- 
fleation for de elec- 
tric welding gene- 
rators (jtvistd). 


IS 14064-1967 Spe- 
cification for nor- 
mal duty air-break 
switches and com- 
posite units of air- 
break switches and 
fuses for voltages 
not exceeding 1000 
volts. 


The monogram of the 
Indian Standard In- 
stitution, consisting 
of letters 'ISF, drawn 
in the exact style 
and relative propor- 
tions as indicated 
in col. (2), the 
number designa- 
tion of the Indian 
Standard being 
superscribed on the 
top side of the 
monogram as indi- 
cated in tho design. 

Do. 1 


16 Sep., 
1968 


Oct., 

1968 


[No. CMD/i7:2] 
(Dr.) A. K. GUPTA, 
Deputy Director General. 


PRINTED BY THE GENERAL MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS. 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER 8F PUBLICATION*, DELHI, IMS 








