REGISTERED No. D. 222 


Wxz (Saiftte 




Inbia 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No 4] N|EW DELHI, SATURDAY, MARCH 8, 1958/PHALGUNA 17, 1879 


NOTICE 

The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 26th February 
1958:— 


Isaue 

No. 


6 S 

7 S 


No. and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


. O. 72, dated the 17th Feb- 
ruary 1958. 

. O. 1x6, dated the 20th Feb- 
ruary 1958. 


Flection Commission, 
India. 

Ditto. 


Election Patition No. 254 of 195 

• 

Corrigendum to notification No. 
317/58, dated 17th February 

1958. 


8 


S. 0 . 1 17, dated the 24th Feb- 
ruary 1958. 


Ministry of Finance 


Nomination of Shri M. V. Ranga- 
chari, as a director of the State 
Bank of India. 


S. O. 118, dated the 24th Feb- 
ruary 1958. 


Ditto. 


Nomination of Shri A. K. Roy 
as a director of the Central 
Board of the Reserve Bank Of 
India. 


9 


S. <p. 151, dated the 26th Feb- 
ruary 1958. 


Ministry of Labour, 
and Employments 


Appointment of a body to hold a 
formal inquiry into the 
causes of accident in the Chlna- 
kuri Colliery on 19th February, 
1958 . 


Copies of tho Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on. 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lihes, Delhi. Indents Should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of these 
Gazettes. 


PART II— Section 3 — Sub-section (ii) 

Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern- 
ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administrations of Union Territories). 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 

New Delhi, the 6th February 1958 

S.O. 184 — It. is hereby notified for general information that the disqualification 
under clause (c) of section 7 of the Representation of the People Act, 1961 







94 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MARCH 8, 1958/PI1ALGUNA 17, 1879 [Part II 


’(XLITI of 1951), incurred by the person whose name and address are given below, 
as notified under notification No. BR-P/72/57(188) dated the 4th November, 1957 
has been removed by the Election Commission in exercise of the powers conferred 
on it by the said clause and section of the said Act: — 

Shri Shrikrishna Prasad Singh, 

Congress Nagar, Kadamkuan, 

Patna-3. 


[No. BR-P/72/57 (188-R) J 


New Delhi, the 24 th February 1958 


S.O. 165. — It is hereby notified for general information that the disqualification! 
under clause (c) of section 7 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 
(XLIII of 1951), incurred by the person whose name and address are given below, 
as notified under notification No. MR-P/401/57(178) dated the 17th October, 1967 
has been removed by the Election Commission in exercise of the powers conferred 
on it by the said clause and section of the said Act: — 

Shri Lairen Mayum Ibungohal Singh, 

Chingakham Leikal, 

P. O. Imphal, Manipur. 


[No. MR-P/401/57(178-R)/6789.J 


S.O. 166. — It is hereby notified for general information that the disqualification 
under clause (c) of section 7 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 
(XLIII of 1951), incurred by the person whose name and address are given below, 
as notified under notification No. BR-P/60/57(98) dated the 27th September, 1057 
has been removed by the Election Commission in exercise of the powers conferred 
on it by the said clause and section of the said Act: — 


Shri Mishra Nageshwaf, 
Shreedhar Press, Laxmlpur, 
Laherlasarai, Darbhanga. 


[No. BR-P/ 60/57 (98-R) . J 
By Order, 

S. C. ROY, Secy, 


MINISTRY OF LAW 


New Delhi, the 28 th February 1958 


S.O. 167. — In exercise, of the powers conferred by clause (a) of Rule 8B of 
Order XXVII of the, First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 
1908), the Central Government hereby cancels the notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Law No. S.R.O. 350, dated the 22nd January, 1958, 
appointing Shri S. D. Pyne, Solicitor, M/s. Pyne & Pyne, Solicitors and Notaries, 
18, Old Post Office Street, Calcutta as Government Pleader for the purposes of 
the said Order. 


[No. F.68(l)/58-J.J 
B. N. LOKUR, Jt. Secy, 



Sec. 3 (ii)J I THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MARCH 8, 1958/PIIALGUNA 17, 1879 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 26 th February 1958 

S.O. 168. — In exercise of the powers coiiferrcd by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution, the President hereby directs that the following amendments 
shall be made in the Schedule to the Central Civil Services (Classification, Con- 
trol and Appeal) Rules, 1957, (with the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Home Affairs No. S.R.O. 607, dated the 28th February, 1957), 
namely: — f 

In Part II of the said Schedule, after the existing entries, the following entry 
shall be inserted, namely: — 

“26. Railway Inspectorate Service (Class I)." 

[No. 7/53/67-Ests (A).] 
P. SITARAMAN, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 17 th February 1058 

S.O. 169.- — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (2) of rule 11, 
clause (b) of sub-rule (2) of rule 14 and sub-rule CD of rule 23 of the Central 
Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1957, the President 
hereby directs that the following amendments shall be made in the Schedule 
to the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Financo 
(Department of Economic Affairs) S.R.O, 627, dated the 28th February, 1957, 
namely: — 

In Part II of the said Schedule, under the head “National Savings Orga- 
nisation”, for “District Organiser; Lady Organiser; Upper Division 
Clerk; Head Clerk; Lower Division Clerk; Stenographer; Driver; 
Operator in Regional Offices” in column 1 and the entries relating 
thereto in columns 2 to 5, the following shall be substituted, 
namely: — 


i 




3 4 5 


District Orginiscr; 
Lady Organiser; 
Head Clerk ; 
Upper Division 
Clerk, in Regio- 
nal Offices. 


National Savings National Savings All 
Commissioner ■ Commissioner. 

Regi onal National (i) to (m) 
Savings Officer 
(Class IV 


Joint Secretary, 
Department of 
Economic Affairs, 
National Savings 
Commissioner. 


Lower Division Regional Na- Regional National All National Savings 
Clerk ; Stcno- tional Savings Savings Officer Commissioner, 

grapher; Driver; Officer (Class I) (Class I) 

Operator in Rc- 
giona Offices. 


[No. F. 55(2)-Adm./57.J 
N, PARASURAMAN, Under Secy, 


(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi , the 20th February 1958 

S.O. 170* — In pursuance of sub-section (1) of Section 34 of the Industrial 
Finance Corporation Act, 1948 (15 of 1948), the Central Government in consultation 
with the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, hereby appoints Messrs, S. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MARCH 8, 1958/PHALGUNA 17, 1879 [Part II 


Vaidyanath Aiypr and Company, New Delhi, as one of the two auditors of the 
Industrial Finance Corporation of India for the year ending 30th June, 1958. 

[No. F. 2(114)-Corp/57.J 

S.O. 171.— It is notified for general information that in pursuance of sub- 
section (1) of Section 34 of the Industrial Finance Corporation Act, 1948 (15 of 
1948), Messrs. S. B. BiUimoria and Company, Chartered Accountants, 113. Mahatma 
Gandhi Road, Fort, Bombay, have been elected by the parties mentioned In sub- 
section (3) of section 4 of the said Act, as one of the two auditors of the Industrial 
Finance Corporation of India for the year ending with the 30th June, 1958. 

[No. F. 2(114)-Corp/57.J 
S, S. SHARJVIA, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

New Delhi, the 25th February 1958 

8.0. 172. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5-B of the Multi- 
Unit Co-operative Societies Act. 1942 (6 of 1942), the Central Government hereby 
directs that the power or authority exercisable by the Central Registrar of Co- 
operative Societies under the said Act shall be exercisable also by the Director 
of Handlooms, Trivandrum, in relation to the reconstitution, reorganisation or 
dissolution of the Travancore Sreemollam Handloom Weavers’ Central Co-opera- 
tive Society Ltd., Trivandrum. 

[No. 4 (4)Tex(c)/57j; 

M. S. SADASIVAN, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 27th February 1958 

S.O. 173.— It is hereby notified that under rule 17 of the Khadi and Village 
Industries Commission Rules, 1957, the resignation tendered by Shri O. P. Rama- 
swami Reddiar, of his membership of the Khadi and Village Industries Board, is 
accepted with effect from the 10th February, 1958 i.e. on the expiry of twenty days 
from the date of receipt by Government of the letter of resignation 

[No. 5(l)/58-KVE.] 
A. J. MUKARJI, Under Secy. 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 25 th February 1958 

8.0. 174.-— In pursuance of rule 9 of the Development Councils (Procedural) 
Rules, ' 1952, made under section 6 of the Industries (Development and Regulation) 
Act, 1951 (85 of 1951), the Central Government hereby ratifies the appointment of 
Shri L. N. Mathur as a substitute to take the place of Shri P. N. Murti, an official 
member of the Development Council tor the scheduled industries engaged in 
the manufacture and production of electric motors and of machinery and equip- 
ment for the generation, transmission and distribution of electric energy (exclud- 
ing house service meters and panel Instruments), for the purpose of attending the 
8th meeting of the said Council which was held in New Delhi on the 21st Feb- 
ruary, 1958. 

[No. 4(6)IA(II)(G)/58.J 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi , the 25 th February 1958 

S.O. 175 1 — In the late Ministry of Heavy Industries Order S.R.O, 410 dated 
the 1st February, 1957, published in Part II — Section 3 of the Gazette of India 
Extraordinary, dated the 1st February, 1957: — 

For "Shri S. A. Gadkary, Technical Adviser, H.E.E.P., Ministry of Produc- 
tion, New Delhi.'* 



97 


Skc. 3 (ii)]| THE CAZETTE OF INDIA, MARCH 8, 1958/PHALGUNA 17, 1879 


Read “Shri S. A. Gadkary, Director, H.E.E.P. Ltd., Gadkary Sadan, 95/48; 
Diplomatic Enclave, Chanakyapuri, New Delhi.' 1 

[No. 4(8)IA(II)(G)/58.] 

P. V. B. MENON, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 
(Department ol Agriculture) 

(Indian Council of Agricultural Research) 

New Delhi, the 17 th February 1958 

S.O. 176. — In pursuance of the provisions of Sub-section (t) of Section 4 of 
the Indian Oilseeds Committee Act, 1946 (9 of 1946), the Central Government 
hereby re-nominate Shrj Laxminivas Ramlal Generiwal, Seetarambagh, Hydera- 
bad (Dn) and Shri R. L. Badhwar, Chief Research Officer, Minor Forest Pro- 
ducts, Forest Research Institute, Dehradun, as members of the Indian Central 
Oilseeds Committee with effect from the 1st April, 1958 for a period of 3 years. 

[No. 6-3/58-Com.I] 
MOKAND LALL, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 


New Delhi, the 17 th February 1958 

S.O. 177. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (2) of 
clause (b) of sub-rule (2) of rule 14 and sub-rule (1) of rule 23 of the 
Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1967, the President 
hereby directs that the following amendments shall be made in the Schedule 
to the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Rehabilitation 
No. S.R.O. 632, dated the 28th February, 1957, namely: — 

In the said Schedule — 

1. In Part II relating to General Central Service, Class III, — 

(a) Under the heading “Central Claims Organisation)”, for ?A11 posts” 
in column 1 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be 


substituted, namely: — 



“Posts of Superin- Deputy Secretary, Deputy Secretary, 
tendent, Accoun- Ministry of Re- Ministiy of Relia- 
tant and Assistant. hubilitatirn. bllitation. 

All 

Joint [[ Secretary, 
Miniftiy of Reha- 
bilitation. 

Other Class III posts. Officcr-in-Charge, Officer-ir-Chtrge, 
Central Claims Central Claims 
Organisation. Organisation. 

All 

Deputy Secretary 
Ministry of Re- 
habilitation.” 

(b) Under the heading “Training and Work 
Delhi”, after the existing entries, the 
namely: — 1 

Centre, Arab-ki-Sarai, New 
following shall bo Inserted, 

“ Office Of the Ap- 
pellate Officer 

(Separation), 

New Delhi. 



All posts Deputy Secretary, Deputy Secretary, 

Ministry of Re- Ministry of Re- 
habilitation. habilitation. 

All 

Secretary, Minis- 
try of Rehabi- 
litation. 


Office of the Com- 
petent Officer, 

Delhi. 

All posts Deputy Secretary, Deputy Secretary, AH Secretary, Ministry 

Ministry of Ministry of of Rehabilitation.’ 

Rehabilitation. Rehabilitation. 


rule 11, 
Central 



[Part II 


98 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MARCH 8, 19. r )8/PHALCUNA 17, 1879 


Social Welfare and 
Rehabilitation Di- 
rectorate, New 
Delhi. 


All posts Deputy Secretary, 

Alinistry ol 
Rehabilitation. 


Office of the Custo- 
dians of Evacuee 
Property and their 
sub ufficcs. 


Deputy Secretary, 
Ministry of 
Rehabilitation. 


All posts Custodian Custodian 


All 


All 


Pay and Accounts 
Organisation at 
New Delhi/Bom- 
bay/Calcutta. 


Secretary, Minis- 
try of Rehabili- 
tation. 


Deputy Chief 
Settlement Com- 
h missioner-eum-De- 
puty Custodian 
General. 


Subordinate Ac- Chief Pay and Chief Pay and All 
counts Service. Accounts Officer. Accounts Officer. 


Clerical Services Chief Pay and Chief Pay and All 
(including steno- Accounts Officer. Accounts Officer, 
graphers, typists, 
and Cashiers etej. 

Pay and Accounts (i) to (m) 
Officer. 


Secretary, Mi- 
nistry of Re- 
habilitation. 

Secretary, Minis- 
try of Reha- 
bilitation. 

Chief Pay and 
Accounts Officer. 


2. In Part III relating to General Central Service. Class IV,— 

(a) For the heading “Office of the Custodian of Evacuee Property Delhi 1 ” 
and the entries thereunder, the following heading and entries shall 
be substituted, namely: — 


Offices of the Cus- 
todian of Evacuee 
Property and their 
sub-offices. 


All posts 


Deputy Custodian; 
or where there is 
no such officer, 
Custodian of 
Evacuee Property. 


Deputy Custodian; 
or where there is 
no such officer. 
Custodian of 
Evacuee Property. 


AH 


Custodian of 
Evacuee Property 
where disciplinary 
authority is 

Deputy Cus- 
todian; other- 
wise Deputy 
Custodian General. 


(b) Under the heading “Property Organisation at Karachi and Lahore" 
for “All posts at Karachi” and "All posts at Lahore” in column i 
and the entries relating theppto, the fq] lowing shall be substituted, 
namely: — 


All posts Under Secretary, Under Secretary, All Deputy Secretary 

Ministry of Rc- Ministry of Re- Ministry of Re- 
habilitation. habilitation. habilitation. 


(c) below the entries relating to “Training and Work Centre, Arab-ki- 
Saral, New Delhi”, the following shall be inserted, namely: — 


Office of the App- 
ellate Officer (Se- 
pamti )t.\ Ntw 

D._.M. 

Ml Pests U :<ler Secretary, Under Secretary, All 

Murury of Re- Ministry of Ke- 
IiSbilitaLioa. habilitation 

Office of the Ci m- 
petent Officer, 

Delhi. 


Deputy Secretary, 
Ministry of Re- 
habilitation. 


AH posts 


Under Secretary, Under Secretary, All 
Ministry of Re- Alinistry of Re- 
habilitation. habilitation. 


Deputy Secretary, 
Ministry of Re- 
habilitation. 



SEC. 3 (it)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MARCH 8, 1958/PHALGUNA 17, 1879 


99 


Social Welfare and 
Rehabilitation Di- 
rectorate, New 
Delhi. 

All posts Honorary Direc- 

tor, Social Wel- 
laic and Reha- 
bilitation Direc- 


Central Claims Or- 
ganisut’''" New 
Delhi. 

All pOSta| 


Pay and i Accounts 
Organisation, New 
Delhi/Bpmbay/Cal- 
cutta. 


toratc- 


Offieer-in-cha rge. 
Cental Claims 
Organisation. 


Ilony, 

Director, All 

Deputy Secretary, 

Social 

Welfare 

Ministry of Re- 

and 

Rehat .ilita- 

habilitation. 

tion 

Directorale. 



Ofiicer-in-chargc, All 

Deputy Secretary, 
Ministry of Re- 

Central Claims 

Organisation. 

habilitation. 


All posts 


Pay and Accounts Pay and Accounts All j 
Officer. Officer., 


Chief Pay and 
Accounts Officer.” 


[No. 2/8/57-AV.J 
V. P. BHATNAGAH, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 26th February 1958 

S.O. 178. — The following draft of the Dock Workers (Safety, Health and 
Welfare) Scheme, 1958, which the Central Government proposes to make in 
exercise of the powers conferred by sections 3 and 4 of the Deck Workers (Regu- 
lation of Employment) Act, 1948, (9 of 1948) is published as required by sub-sec- 
tion (1) of the said section 4 for the information of all persons likely to be affected 
thereby and notice is hereby given that the draft will be taken into consideration 
on or after the 1st May, 1968. 

2, Ally objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 

Draft Scheme 

Dock Workers (Safety, Health and Welfare) Scheme, 1958 

PART I 
Genera!. 

1. Short title, extent and commencement. — (1) This Scheme shall be called the 

'‘Dock Workers (Safety, Health and Welfare) Scheme, 1958’. 

(2) This Scheme shall apply to major ports. 

(3) This Scheme shall come into force on the 1958 except 

clauses 12(2), 16, 19, 20 and 21 which shall come into force on such date or dates 
as may be notified In the Official Gazette by the Central Government 

2. Definitions. — In this Scheme, unless there is anything repugnant in the sub- 
ject or context, — 

(1) “Act” means the “Dock Workers (Regulations of Employment) Act, 

1948"; 

(2) “deck” means any dock, wharf or quay and shall include any warehouse 

or store place belonging to owners, trustees or conservators of, and 
situated in or In the vicinity of, the dock, wharf or quay and any 
railway line or siding on or used in connection with the dock, wharf 
or quay but not forming part of a State railway; 

(3) “Form” means a form appended to this Scheme; 

<4) "Inspector” means any person appointed under section 6 of the Act; 



ICO THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MARCH 8, 1958/PHALGUNA 17, 1879 [Part IF 


(5) "Port Authority” means the person having the general management and 

control of dock; provided that if any other person has, by exclusive 
right to occupation of any part of a dock, acquired the general 
management and control of such part, he shall be deemed to be the 
“Port Authority” in respect of that part; 

(6) “Schedule” means a Schedule appended to this Scheme; 

(7) the words “dock worker” and "employer” have the meanings assigned 

to them under the Act; 

8. Powers of Inspectors. — (1) An Inspector may enter with such assistance (it 
any) as he thinks fit, any dock or vessel where dock workers are employed, and — 

(i) inspect, examine, any building, plant, machinery, appliance or equip- 
ment used in connection with the loading, unloading, movement or 
storage of cargoes or in connection with preparation of ships or 
other vessels for the receipt or discharge of cargoes or leaving port; 

iii) examine any register or other document relating to the employment 
of dock workers, 

(ill) take on tho spot or otherwise the statements of any persons or hold 
enquiries which he may consider necessary for carrying out the pur- 
poses of this Scheme, provided that no person shall be compelled to 
answer any question or give any evidence tending to incriminate 
himself; 

(2) The Port Authorities, the employers of dock workers and owners of machi- 
nery or plant shall afford all reasonable facilities to the Inspector for entry, ins- 
pection, examination or enquiry under this Scheme. 

4. Notification of Accidents and Dangerous Occurrences. — (1) Notice of any 
accident in a dock which either — 

(a) causes loss of life to a dock worker, or 

(b) disables a dock worker from work on which he was employed for the 

rest of the day or shift on which the accident occurred, shall forth- 
with be sent by telegram, telephone or special messenger within 
four hours of the occurrence; to — 

(i) the Inspector notified for the purpose; 

(li) the relatives of — 

(a) deceased dock worker In case of fatal accident; and 

(b) the dock worker injured, in case the injury Is of such a serious 

nature that the dock worker is likely to be disabled from work 
for more than ten days; and 

(111) in the case of fatal accidents only, 

(a) the offlcer-In-charge of the nearest Police Station, and 

(b) the District Magistrate or if the District Magistrate by order so 

directs, the Sub-Divisional Magistrate; 

Provided that a notice of any accident of which notice is sent in accordance 
with the requirements of the Explosives Act, 1884 or the Petroleum 

Act, 1934 or the Indian Dock Labourers Act, 1934, need not be sent 

in accordance with this sub-paragraph. 

(2) Where any accident causing disablement is notified under this sub-para- 
graph and after notification thereof results in the death of the dock worker disabl- 
ed, notice in writing of the death shall be sent to the authorities mentioned in 
tub-paragraph (1) immediately the death occurs. 

(3) The following classes of dangerous occurrences shall forthwith be reported 

to the Inspector in the manner described in sub-paragraph (1) whether death or 

disablement is caused or not: — 

(i) collapse or failure of a lifting machinery used in raising or lowering of 
persons or goods, and breakage or failure of ropes, chains, or other 
. appliances forming part of lifting machinery or the overturn turn- 
ing or displacement of a crane; 

(il) collapse or subsidence of any wall, floor, gallery, roof, platform, staging 
and means of access provided In accordance with this Scheme; 



101 - 


Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MARCH 8, 1958/PHALGUNA 17, 1879 


(iii) bursting of a vessel containing steam under pressure greater than. 

atmospheric pressure other than plant which comes within the scope- 
of the Indian Bcilers Act, 1923; 

(iv) explosion or Are causing damage to any room or place in which dock 

workers are employed; 

(v) explosion of a receiver or vessel used for the storage, at a pressure 

greater than atmospheric pressure, of any gas or gases (including 
air) or any liquid or solid resulting from the compression of gas. 

(4) Every notice given under sub-paragraph (1) or sub-paragraph (3) shall be 
confirmed within 90 hours of the occurrence by sending a written report to the- 
Inspector in Form I provided that in case of an accident under clause (b) of 
sub-paragraph (l), such written report need be sent only when the dock worker 
is disabled from work on which he was emipoyed for more than fortyeight hours 
immediately after the accident. 

5. Notification of certain Diseases. — (1) When a dock worker contracts any 
disease specified in Schedule 1 a notice in Form II shall be sent forthwith to the’ 
Inspector. 

(2) If any medical practitioner attends on a dock worker who is or was employ- 
ad in the dock and who is, or is believed by the medical practitioner to be, suffer- 
ing from any disease specified in the aforesaid Schedule, the medical practitioner 
shall without delay send, addressed to “Chief Adviser Factories, Ministry of 
Labour and Employment New Delhi’’, a notice stating the name and full postal 
address of the patient and the disease which in the opinion of the medical practi- 
tioner the patient is suffering from, and the name and other particulars of the 
dock or of the place in which the patient is or was last employed. 

Any medical practitioner who fails to send any notice in accordance with the 
requirements of this sub-paragraph shall bo liable to fine which may extend 
upto rupees fifty. 

6. Duties of Port Authorities etc. — Save as otherwise expressly provided in 
this Scheme— 

(1) It shall be the duty of every Port Authority to comply with the provi- 

sions under Part II (Health) and Part III (Welfare) of this Scheme 
and such of the requirements under Part IV (Safety) of this Scheme as 
affect the safety in the dock or any part of the dock, whore dock 
workers are employed, and of any dock worker in the course of per- 
formance of any work In so far as the requirements fall within the 
scope of the general management and control of the docks in the 
port. 

(2) (a) It shall be the duty of every employer of dock workers who by 

himself, his agents or employees, carries on any of the operations in 
which dock workers are employed, to comply with the requirements 
of paragraphs 4 and 5 under this Part and with such of the require- 
ments under Part IV (Safety) of this Scheme as — 

(i) affect any dock worker employed by him In the course of performing 

any work on his behalf; 

(ii) relate to any work, act or operation performed or about to be per- 

formed by such employer. 

(b) It shall also be the duty of every employer of dock workers who by 
himself, his agents or employees, erects or alters any staging or 
works or uses machinery or plant*' or part thereof to which this 
Scheme applies, to comply with such of the requirements under 
Part IV (Safety) of this Scheme as relate to the erection or altera- 
tion of the staging and to work or use the machinery or plant in a 
manner which complies with the provisions relating thereto under 
Part IV (Safety) of this Scheme. 

(3) It shall he the duty of the owner of machinery or plant to erect, instal 

and maintain the machinery or plant in a manner which complies 
with the provision? relating thereto under Part IV (Safety) of this 
Scheme. 

(4) It shall be the duty of every dock worker to comply with the require- 

ments of such paragraphs as relate to the performance of an act by 
his and to cooperate In carrying out the requirements of this Scheme, 



.102 the GAZETTE of INDIA, MARCH 8, 1058/ PHALGUNA 17, 1879 


and if he discovers any defect in the dock, staging, machinery or 
plant, to report such defect without unreasonable delay to his 
employer, his foreman or other person in authority. 

7. Other Obligations of dock workers,— (1) No dock worker shall wilfully 
interfere with or misuse any means, appliance, convenience or other equipment 
provided in pursuance of this Scheme for the purposes of securing the health 
safety or welfare of the deck workers, and where any means, appliance con- 
venience or equipment for securing health, safety or welfare Is povided for the 
use of any such dock woker under this Scheme, he shall use the means, appliance 
convenience or equipment. No dock worker shall wilfully and without’ reasonable’ 
.cause do anything likely to endanger himself or othors. 

(2) No dock worker shall, unless duly authorised or In case of any emergency, 
remove or interfere with any fencing, plant or machinery, ladder, life-saving 
means or appliances, lights, staging or other things whatsoever required to be 
provided under this Scheme. If removed, such things shail be restored at the 
end of the period during which their removal was authorised or at the end of the 
emergency, as the case may be, by the persons last engaged in the work that 
.necessitated such removal. 


PART II 
Health 

8. Cleanliness.— Every place in the dock where dock workers are employed, 
-and all areas in the dock which are in proximity to the place in the dock wnere 
dock workers are employed, shall be kept clean and free from rubbish or effluvia 
arising from any drain, privy or other nuisance. 

9. Drinking Water. — (1) In every dock, effective arrangements shall be made 
to provide and maintain at suitable points conveniently situated for all dock 
workers employed therein a sufficient supply of wholesome drinking water. 

(2) All such points shall be legibly marked “drinking water centre” in a langu- 
age understood by a majority of the dock workers employed in the dock, and 
no such point shall be situated within twenty feet of any washing place, urinal 
■ or latrine unless a shorter distance is approved In writing by the Inspector. 

(3) In every dock, the drinking water supplied to the dock workers shall from 
the 1st April to the 31st October in every year, be cooled by ice or other effective 
method: 

Provided that If ice Is placed In the drinking water, the ice shall be clean and 
wholesome and shall be obtained only from a source approved In writing by 
the Health Officer of the Port. 

(4) The drinking water centres shall be sheltered from the weather and ade- 
quately drained. 

(5) Every drinking water centre shall be maintained in a clean and orderly 
condition and If necessary shall be In charge of a suitable person who shall distri- 
bute the water. Such person shall be provided with clean clothes while on duty. 

(6) Storage tanks or containers shall be always kept In clean and hygienic 
condition. 

(7) The Inspector may by order in writing direct the Port Authority to obtain, 
at such time or at such intervals as he may direct, a report from the Health 
Officer of the Port as to the fltnass for human consumption of the water supplied 
to the workers, and in every case to submit to the Inspector a copy of such report 
as soon os it is received from the Health Officer. 

10 Latrines and Urinals.— (1) In every dock, sufficient latrine and urinal ac- 
commodation shall be provided and shall be conveniently situated and accessible 
to dock workers at all times while they are at work. 

(2) Separate enclosed accommodation shall be provided for male and female 
workers wherever female workers are likely to be employed. Such accommoda- 
tion shall be adequately lighted and ventilated, 

(3) The floors and internal walls, up to a height of at least three feet, of the 
latrines and urinals and the sanitary blocks shall be laid in glazed tiles or other- 
wise finished to provide a smooth polished Impervious surface. 



103 


Sec. 3 (ii)h THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MARCH 8, 1D58/PHALGUNA 17, 1879 


(4) Ajll such accommodation shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary con- 
dition at all times. The floors, portions of the walls of sanitary blocks upto a 
height ot three feel so laid or finished as to provide smooth polished impervious 
surface t[nd the sanitary pans of latrines and urinals shall be thoroughly swept and 
cleaned tit least once a day with suitable detergents or disinfectants or with both. 

(5) Every latrine shall be under cover and so partitioned off as to secure priv- 
acy, and shall have a proper door and fastenings. 

(6) The walls, ceilings and partitions of every latrine and urinal shall be 
whitewashed or colour-washed and the white-washing or colour-washing shall be 
repeated; at least once in four months: 

Provided that this subparagraph shall not apply to latrines and urinals, the 
walls, ceilings or partitions of which are laid in glazed tiles or otherwise finished 
to provide a smooth polished impervious surface and that they are washed with 
suitable detergents and disinfectants at least once in four months. 

(7) Inhere piped water supply is available a sufficient number of water taps, 
conveniently accessible, shall be provided in or near such latrine accommodation. 

(8) When piped water supply is not available, provision shall be made to store 
adequate quantity of water near the latrine. 

11. Spittoons. — (1) In every ware-house or store-place in a dock where dock 
workers are likely to be employed there shall be provided a sufficient number 
-of spittoons in convenient places and they shall be maintained in a clean and 
hygienic condition, 

(2) No person shall spit within such ware-houses or store-places except in the 
spittoons provided for the purpose and a notice containing this provision and 
the penalty for its violation shall be prominently displayed at suitable places. 

(3) Whoever spits In contravention of sub-paragraph (2) shall be punishable 
■with fine not exceeding five rupees. 

(4) The spittoons shall be one of the following types: — 

(a) a galvanized iron container with a conical funnel shaped cover. A layer 

of (suitable disinfectant liquid shall always be maintained in the 
container; or 

(b) a container filled with dry, clean sand, and covered with a layer of 

bleaching powder; or 

(c) any other type approved by the Inspector. 

15) The spittoon mentioned In sub-paragraph 4(a) shall be emptied, cleaned and 
-disinfected at least once every day; and the spittoon mentioned in sub-paragraph 
4(b) shall be cleaned by scrapping out the top layer of sand as often as necessary 

or at least once every day. 

12, Lighting. — (1) All places in a dock where dock workers are employed and 
any dangerous parts of the regular road or pathway over the dock forming the 
approach to any such place from the nearest highway, shall be safely and efficient- 
ly lighted. 

(2) The general illumination in areas on the dock where dock workers have to 
pass shall be at least 5 lux (0.5 ft. candle) and at places where dockworkers are 
employed, the Illumination shall be at least 20 lux (2 ft, candles), without prejudice 
to the' provision of any additional illumination needed at particularly dangerous 
places. 

(3) The means of artificial lighting shall, so far as is practicable, be such as to 
prevent glare or formation of shadows to such an extent as to cause risk of ac- 
cident to any dock worker. 

13. Ventilation and Temperature— Effective and suitable provision shall be 
made in every dock for securing and maintaining in every building or an enclosure 
where dock workers are employed adequate ventilation by the circulation of fresh 
air, and such temperature and air movement as will secure to dock workers 
therein reasonable conditions of comfort and prevent injury to health. 



104 T HE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MARCH 8, 1958/PHALGUNA 17, 1879 [Part II 


PART III 
Welfare 

14. Washing Facilities. — (I) In every dock, adequate and suitable facilities for 
washing shall be provided and maintained for the use of the dock workers- 
employed therein and such facilities shall be conveniently accessible and shall 
be kept in a clean and orderly condition. 

(2) The washing facilities shall include: — 

(i) (a) a trough with taps or jets at intervals of not less than two feet, or 

(b) wash-basins with taps attached thereto, or 

(c) taps on stand-pipes, or 

(d) circular throughs of the fountain type, and 

(ii) where necessary, showers controlled by taps. 

(3) The Inspector may, having regard to the needs and habits of the dock 
workers, fix the scale in which the aforementioned types of facilities shall be 
installed in any dock. 

(4) (a! Every trough and basin shall have a smooth impervious surface 
and shall be fitted with a waste pipe. 

lb) The floor or ground under and in the immediate vicinity of every 
trough, tap, jet, wash basin, stand pipe and shower shall be so laid 
or finished as to provide, a smooth impervious surface and shall be 
adequately drained. 

(5) The water supply to the washing facilities shall be adequate having regard 
to the number of dock workers employed in the dock, and shall be from a source 
approved in writing by the Health Officer of the Port. 

15. First- Aid-Appliances. — (1) In every dock, there shall be provided and 
maintained so as to be readily accessible during all working hours a sufficient 
number of first-aid boxes or cup-boards: Provided that the distance of the near- 
est first-aid box or cup-board shall be not more than 200 m. (one furlong) from, 
any working place. 

(2) Nothing excepting appliances or requisites for first aid shall be kept in. 
the boxes and cup-boards referred to in sub-paragraph (1) and all such boxes 
and cup-boards shall be kept in the charge of a responsible, person who is trained 
in first-aid treatment and who shall always be readily available during working 
hours. 

(3) Each first-aid box or cup-board shall be distinctly marked “FIRST AID" and 
shall be equipped with the articles specified in Schedule II: 

Provided that where an Inspector is of the opinion that owing to the number 
of first-aid boxes or cup-boards provided and the availability of extra facilities, 
.such as well equipped ambulance room, the standard prescribed in the said 
Schedule may be relaxed, he may, subject to confirmation by the Central Govern- 
ment, issue a certificate in writing, specifying the extent to which the relaxation 
Is given: 

Provided further that before revoking a certificate the Inspector shall give 
the Port Authorities a reasonable opportunity to make its representation. 

(4) A sufficient number of standard Army Pattern or “Furlay” telescopic 
handle stretchers complete with slings shall be provided at convenient places eo 
as to be readily available in an emergency. 

16. Ambulance Room.— (1) In every dock where more than five hundred dock 
workers are ordinarily employed, there shall be provided and maintained an 
ambulance room, which shall be in charge of a qualified nurse or other person 
trained in first-aid, who shall always be readily available during working hours. 

(2) The, ambulance room or dispensary shall be a separate room used only 
for the purpose of first-aid treatment and rest. It shall have a floor area of at 
least 10 sqm. (100 sq. ft.) and smooth hard and impervious walls and floor and' 
shall be adequately ventilated and lighted by both natural and artificial means. 
An adequate supply of wholesome, drinking water shall be provided and the room 
shall be equipped with the articles specified in Schedule III. 

(3) A record of all cases of accident and sickness treated at the ambulance 
room shall be kept and produced to the Inspector when required. 



Sec. 3 (il)j THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MARCH 8, 1958/PHALGUNA 17, 1879 


17, Ambulances Carriage. — There shall be provided for use at every dock at 
which the total number of dock workers at any time exceeds fifty, a suitably 
constructed motor ambulance carriage or launch maintained in good condition 
for the purpose of the removal of serious cases of accident or sickness, unless 
arrangements have been made for obtaining such a carriage or launch when 
required from a hospital or other place situated not more than 3 km. (two miles) 
from the, dock, and m telephone communication therewith. 

18. Notices. — Notices shall be exhibited in prominent positions at every dock 
etating:— 

(ai the position of each first-aid box or cup-board and the place where the 
person in charge thereof can be found, 

(b) the position of the ambulance room, the stretchers or other applianceg, 
anjd 

(c| the position of the ambulance carriage or, where it is not provided, the 

E osition of the nearest telephone and the name and telephone num- 
er of the hospital or other place from which such carriage may be 
obtained. 

19. Canteens.— (1) In any dock or in any part of a dock wherein more than 
two hundred and fifty dock workers are ordinarily employed, an adequate can- 
teen in or near the dock, shall be provided and maintained, for the, use of all 
dock workers, and shall function at all times when twenty five or more dock 
workers are employed at a time. 

(2) The Port Authority shall submit for thei approval of Inspector plans and 
site plan, in duplicate, of the building to be constructed or adapted for use as 
a canteen. 

(3) An adequate number of mobile canteens shall be provided at every dock 
with provision for serving tea and light refreshments. 

(41 The Central Government may prescribe, the standands of accommodation 
and catering facilities to which the canteen shall conform. 

20. Shelters or Best Sheds, and Lunch Rooms.— (1) In every dock, wherein 
more than one hundred and fifty dock workers are ordinarily employed, adequate 
and suitable shelters or rest rooms and suitable lunch rooms, with provision for 
drinking water where dock workers can eat meals brought by them, shall be 
provided at convenient pluces and maintained for the, use of the dock workers: 

Provided that any canteen maintained in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 20 shall be regarded as part of the requirements of this sub-clause: 

Provided further that, where a lunch room is provided, no dock workers shall 
eat any food in the precincts of the dock except in such lunch room. 

(2) The shelters dr rest rooms and lunch rooms to be provided under sub- 
paragraph (1) shall be sufficiently lighted and ventilated ana shall be maintained 
in a cool and clean condition. 

21. Welfare Officers, — (1) In every dock, wherein five hundred or more dock 
workers are ordinarily employed Ihere shall be employed such number of Wel- 
fare Officers as may be prescribed by the Central Government, 

(2) The Central Government may prescribe the duties, qualifications and 
conditions of service of officers employed under sub-clause (1). 

PART IV 
Safety 

Wharves, Quays, Yards & Approaches 

22. Surface. — (1) Every regular approach over a dock which dock workers 
have to use for going to or from a working place on shore and every such work- 
ing plaae shall be — 

(i) kept adequately clear, as far as practicable, from objects that can cause 
slipping, falling or stumbling, 

(il) kept free from slipping owing to rain or oil by cleaning or may be 
made safe by strewing sand, ashes, saw-dust or by other suitable 
means, and 

(iii) maintained generally with due regard to the safety of the dock work- 
ers. 



106 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MARCH R, I95B/PHALGUNA 17, 1879 [Part II 


(2) All areas of a dock shall be, kept properly graded in order to facilitate 
aafe access to warehouses and store places and safe handling of cargo and 
equipment, 

(3) Drain pools and catch basins shall be kept covered or enclosed. 

(4) All areas of a dock and all approaches on which motor vehicles are used,, 
shall be soundly constructed, surfaced with good-wearing material and sufficiently 
even to afford safe transport of cargo, and shall be properly maintained. 

23. Fencing of Dangerous Places. — (1) The following parts of a dock and 
approaches shall, as far as practicable having regard to the traffic and working,, 
be securely fenced so that the height of the fence shall be in no place less than 
75 cm. (2 ft. 6 inches;, and the fencing shall be maintained in good condition: — 

(a) all breaks, dangerous corners, and other dangerous parts or edges of 

a dock; 

(b) both sides of such foot ways over bridges, caissons, and dock gates as 

are in general use by dock workers and each side, of the entrance 

at each end of such foot way for sufficient distance not exceeding: 

45 m. (6 yd,): 

Provided that in case of fences which were constructed before the date of 
operation of the Scheme, it shall be sufficient if the height of the fence is in no 
piace less than 03 cm, (2 ft. 3 Inches). 

(2) Ditches, pits, trenches for pipes and cables and other hazardous openings 
and excavations shall be securely covered or adequately fenced. 

(3) Where wharves and quays slope steeply towards the water, the outer 
edge shall be protected as fur as practicable. 

24. Clearance for passages. — 11) Cargo shall not be so stored or vehicles so- 
placed on any areas of a dock where dock workers are employed as to obstruct 
access to gangways, cranes and similar appliances and buildings. 

(2) Where any space is left along the edge of any wharf or quay it shall be 
at least 90 cm. (3 ft.) wide s and shall be kept clear of all obstructions other 
than fixed structures, plant and appliances in use. 

25. Gates. — Where working areas of a dock are enclosed and the traffic 
warrants, a separate gate shall be provided for pedestrians. 

Warehouses arid Storeplaces 

26. Construction. — All floors, steps, stairs, passages and gangways of ware- 
houses and storeplaces shall be of sound construction and properly maintained, 

27. Floor loading. — (1) The. maximum load per square meter to be carried by 
any floor of a warehouse or storeplace and maximum load of any vehicle used 
on such floor shall be posted up at conspicuous places. 

(2) These maximum loads shall not be exceeded. 

28. Stairs. — (1) For every staircase in a warehouse or storeplace, a substantial 
handrail of a height of at least 90 cm, (3 ft.) shall be, provided and maintained 
which if the staircase has an open side shall be on that side, and, in the case of 
a staircase having two open sides, such a handrail shall be provided and main- 
tained on both sides. 

(2) Any open side of staircase shall also be guarded by the provision and 
maintenance of lower rail or other effective means. 

29. Openings. — All openings in floors and walls shall in so far as they present 
danger, be effectively protected. 

30. Means of escape in case of fire.— (1) All warehouses and storeplaces shall 
be provided, in addition to the normal means of exit, with sufficient emergency 
means of escape in case of fire for the dock workers employed therein, and shall 
be distinctly marked in a language under-stood by the majority of the dock 
workers. 

(2) A free passageway giving access to each means Of escape in case of fire 
shall be maintained for the use of all dock workers. 

(3) In every dock there shall be provided effective and clearly audible 
means of giving warning in case of fire to every dock worker employed therein. 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MARCH 8, 1958/PHALGUNA 17, 1879 iof 


Lifting Machinery and Gear 

in. Construction and maintenance. — (1) In any dock, all parts, including the' 
working gear, whether fixed or movable, of every lifting machinery and every 
chain, ring, hook, shackle, swivel or pulley block used in hoisting or lowering- 
shall be— 

(i) of good construction, sound material, adequate strength and free from 
defects; 

(ill properly maintained; - and 

(iii) thoroughly examined once at least every 12 months and particulars 
of such examination entered in the register approved by the 
Inspector. 

For the purpose of this sub-paragraph, thorough examination means a 
visual examination supplemented, if necessary, by other means such as a hammer 
test, carried out as carefully as the conditions permit, in order to arrive at a 
reliable conclusion as to the safety of the parts examined: and. if necessary for 
the purpose, parts of the- lifting machinery and gear shall be dismantled. 

(2) No lifting machinery and no drain or other appliance shall, except for 
the purpose of test, be loaded beyond the safe working load which shall be 
plainly marked thereon. 

32. Testing. — (1) No lifting machinery and no chain, ring, hook, shackle, 
swivel, or pulley block shall be used in hoisting or lowering unless it has been 
tested and examined by a competent person in the manner set out in Schedulei 
IV and a certificate of such test and examination in the form approved by the 
Inspector obtained. 

(2) All lifting machinery and all chains, rings, hooks, shackles, swivels and' 
pulley blocks which have been lengthened, altered or repaired by welding or 
otherwise shall, before being again taken into use for hoisting or lowering, be 
adequately retested and re-examined by a competent person and a certificate 
of such test and examination in the form approved by the Inspector obtained. 

33. Annealing,— All chains, rings, hooks, shackles and swivels used in hoist- 
ing or lowering shall, unless they have been subjected to such other treatment 
as the Inspector may, subject to the confirmation by the Central Government* 
approve, be effectually annealed under the supervision of a competent person 
and at the following intervals: — 

(i) half-inch and smaller-chains, rings, hooks, shackles and swivels in 

: general use, once at least in every six menths, 

(ii) all other chains, rings, hooks, shackles and swivels in general use 

once at least in every twelve months: 

Provided that in the case of such gear used solely on cranes and other hoist- 
ing appliances worked by hand twelve months shall be substituted for six months 
in sub-paragraph (i) and 2 years for 12 months in sub-paragraph (ii): 

Provided also that where an Inspector is of opinion that owing to the size, 
design, material or infrequency of use of any such gear or class of such gear, 
the requirement of this clause us to annealing is not. necessary for the protection 
of dock workers, lfe may by a certificate in writing and subject to confirmation 
by the Central Government, exempt such gear or class of gear from such require- 
ment subject to such conditions as may be specified in such certificate. 

Particulars of such annealing shall be entered in a register approved by the 
Inspector. 

34. Special gear.— Nothing in the foregoing clause shall apply to the follow- 
ing classes of chains and gear:— 

(1) chains made of malleable, cast iron; 

(2) plate link chains; 

(3) chains, rings, hooks, shackles and swivel* made of steal; 

(4) pitched chains; 

(5) rings, hooks, shackles and swivels permanently attached to pitched' 

chains, pulley blocks or weighing machines; 

(6) hooks and swivels having screw-threaded parts or ball bearing3 or 

other case-hardened parts; and 

(7) Bordeaux connections. 



1q8 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MARCH 8, 1958/PHALGUNA 17, 1879 [Past II 


Chains and gear aforementioned shall thoroughly examined by a competent 
person once at least in every 12 months and particulars of examination entered 
in the register approved by the Inspector, 

35, Ropes.— No rope shall be used in hoisting or lowering unless It is of 
suitable quality and free from patent defects and, in the ease of wire rope, It 
has been tested and examined by a competent person in the manner set out In 
Schedule IV and a certificate of teat and examination in the form approved by 
the Inspector obtained. 

36. Drivers of cranes, etc. — No person under 18 years of age and no person 
who is not sufficiently competent and reliable, shall be employed as a driver of 
the lifting machinery, whether driven by mechanical power or otherwise or for 
giving signals to a driver. 

Transport Equipment and Operations 

37. Cargo Platforms. — (1) Cargo platforms (except those formed by cargo 
itself) shall be made of sound material, substantially and firmly constructed, 

. adequately supported and maintained in good repair. 

(2) Cargo platforms shall — 

(a) be of sufficient size to receive cargo and to ensure the safety of dock 

workers working on them, 

(b) if of a height exceeding 1.5 m. (5 feet), in addition to the requirements 

of (a) above, be protected on any side, which is not being used for 
receiving or delivering cargo, by substantial fencing to a height of 
90 cm. (3 feet) by upper and lower railings or taut ropes of chains 
with stanchions; and 

(c) be provided with safe means of access, such as ladder or stairs. 

(3) Cargo platforms shall not be overloaded. 

(4) Portable trestles shall be so placed as to be steady. 

38, Conveyors. — (1) Conveyors shall be of sound material, good construction 
and of sufficient strength to support safely the loads for which they are intend- 

. ed, and shall be kept in good repair. 

(2) (i) Conveying machinery shall be so constructed and installed as to 
avoid hazardous points between moving and stationary parts or 
objects. 

(11) When a passageway Is adjacent to an open conveyor, a clearance of at 
least 3 ft. (90 cm.) shall be provided. 

(3) When dock workers have to cross over conveyors, regular crossing faci- 
lities affording safe passage and adequately lighted shall be provided, 

(4) When conveyors that are not entirely enclosed cross over places where 
• dock workers are employed or might pass beneath them, sheet or screen guards 

shall be provided to catch any material which might fall from the conveyors. 

(5) Power-driven conveyors shall be provided at loading and unloading 
stations, at drive and take-up ends, and at other convenient places, with devices 

-for stopping the> conveyor machinery in an emergency. 

(6) Adequate fencing shall be provided at transfer point. 

(7) Conveyors which carry loads up inclines shall be provided with mechanical 
dcbices that will prevent machinery from reversing and carrying the loads back 
towards the loading point In the event of the power being cut off. 

(8) Where two or more conveyors are operated together, the controlling 
devices shall be so arranged that no conveyor can feed on to a stopped conveyor. 

(9) Where the tops of hoppers for feeding conveyors are less than 3 ft. (90 cm) 
. above the floors, the openings shall be adequately guarded. 

(10) (i) Where conveyors extend to points not visible from the control 

stations, they shall be equipped with gongs, whistles or signal lights, 
to be used by the operators before starting the machinery so as to warn 
dock workers who might be in positions of danger. 

(ii) Similar provisions shall be made where necessary to enable the dock 
workers to communicate with the operator. 

(11) Conveyors shall be provided with automatic and continuous lubrication 
. systems, or with lubricating facilities so arranged that oiling and greasing can be 
.performed without the oilers coming within dangerous proximity to moving parts. 



S*C. 3 (H)] t THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MARCH 8, jyi>8/i'HAlAiUNA 1 /. IB/S l£>9 

(12) Conveyors shall be thoroughly inspected once in every three, months. 

(13) Dock workers shall not ride on conveyors. 

(14) Belt conveyors shall be provided with guards at the nips of belts and drums. 

(15) Intake openings of belowers or exhaust fans for pneumatic conveyors shall 
be protected with substantial metal screens or gratings. 

(16) Fraknes of gravity rollers and chutes shall be kept free of spinters, sharp 
edges and rough surfaces. 

(17) Gravity rollers and chutes shall not be used for the passage of dock 
workers. 

(18) Sideboards of chutes shall be sufficient height to prevent cargo from falling 
off. 

39. Power Trucks and Hand Trucks. — (1) All truck and tractor equipment shall 
be of good material, sound construction, sufficiently Strong for the purposes for 
which it is used and maintained In good repair. 

(2) All truck and tractor equipment ehall be inspected at least once a week by 

maintenance men or other competent persons, and when any dangerous defects are 
discovered in a vehicle, it shall be immediately taken out of service. 

(3) Fork lift trucks shall be equipped with overhead guards adequate to prevent 
injury to the operator from falling objects. 

(4) The rated capacity of every lift truck shall be marked on the truck so as 
to be readily visible. 

(5) Power trucks and tractors shall be operated only by competent and 
thoroughly trained drivers. 

(6) Power trucks and trailer trucks shall not be loaded beyond their safe carry- 
ing capacity. 

(7) If loads' are carried by two or more fork lift trucks working in unison, none 
of the trucks shall be loaded beyond three-quarters of Its safe working load. 

40, Locomotives and wagons. — (1) Sufficient clearance to ensure safety shall be 
allowed between structures or piles of cargo and railway tracks. 

(2) Locomotive drivers shall act only on signals given by an authorised person; 
Provided that stop signals shall always be acted on, irrespective of their source. 

(3) Locomotives pulling or pushing wagons shall move dead Slow and shall be 
preceded by a man on foot when passing through an area where dock workers are 
working. 

(4) Where It is necessary to move railway wagons more than a short distance 
without a locomotive, wagons shall move dead slow and be preceded by a man on 
foot when passing through an area where dock workers are working. 

(5) Before moving railway wagons, train crews shall make sure that all dock 
workers are out of the wagons and the danger zone. 

(S) Cranes, ship’s winches and derricks shall not be used to move railway 
wagons. 

(7) No locomotive or wagon shall be moved on a railway line until an efficient 
sound signals as a warning has been given by the man preceding it on foot to 
dock workers whose safety is likely to be endangered, or on approaching any curve 
where sight is Intercepted, or any other point of danger to dock workers. 

(8) Fly shunting In areas where dock workers are employed shall be prohibited 
and all trains shall be brought to a full stop before any wagons are cut loose. 

(9) Wben a railway wagon or a group of wagons not directly connected to a 
locomotive is being moved, a person shall be appointed to control each wagon or 
group of wagons. 

(TO) As far as practicable, idle wagons shall not be left standing on quays with 
short distances between them. 

(11) No dock worker shall cross a railway line by crawling or passing under- 
neath a train or wagons or between adjacent wagons thereon where there may 
be risk of danger from traffic. 

(12) When dock workers are required to work between or beneath railway 
wagons, they shall be provided with a lookout man responsible for giving them 
any necessary warnings: 



no 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA. MARCH 8. 1958/PHALGUNA 17, 1879 [Part II 


(13) No person under 18 years of age shall be employed as a locomotive driver 
or a shunter. 

(14) Dock workers shall not be Inside open wagons when: 

(a) bulk cargo is being handled by means ot grabs; or 

(b) metal stock is being handled by means ot electromagnets. 

(15) Where open wagons with swinging side doors are being empted near 
passageways or walkways, danger signs shall be placed at either end of the 

exposed sections. 


Handling of Cargo 

41. Stacking and tinstaoking. — (1) Where stacking, unstacking, stowing or 
unstowing of cargo or handling in connection therewith cannot be safely carried 
out unaided, reasonable measures to guard against accident shall be taken by 
shoring or otherwise, 

(2) Stacking of cargo shall be made on firm foundation not liable to settle and 
the weight of the cargo shall be such as not to overload the floors. 

(3) Cargo shall not be stacked against partition or wall of warehouses or 
storeplaces unless it is known that the partition or the wall is of sufficient strength 
to withstand the pressure. 

(4) Car go shall not be stacked to such a height and in such a manner as would 
render the pile unstable. 

(5) Where dock workers are working on stacks exceeding 1 • 5 m (5 ft.) in height, 
safe means of access to the stack shall be provided. 

42. Handling objects having sharp and projecting parts. — Dock workers handl- 
ing objects with sharp edges, flns, slivers; splinters or similar dangerous projecting 
parts, shall be provided with suitable protective equipment. 

Staging 

43. Material and Construction. — (1) A sufficient supply of sound and substantial 
material shall be available in a convenient place or places for the construction of 
staging. 

(2) Ail the staging shall — 

(a) be securely constructed of sound and substantial material and shall be 

maintained in such condition as to ensure the safety of all dock 
workers; and 

(b) be Inspected at regular and frequent Intervals by a competent person. 

(3) All planks intended to be used for staging shall — 

(a) be carefully, examined before being taken into use; and 

(b) be re-examined before they are used against after the stages have been 

dismantled, by a person qualified to detect faults in timber. 

(4) All planks forming stages shall be fastened to prevent slipping, unless they 
extend 45 cm (18 inches) or more beyond the inside edge of the thwart or support 
on which they rest. 

(5) All stages shall be of sufficient width, as is reasonable in all the circums- 
tances of the case, to secure the safety of the dock workers working thereon. In 
particular, no stage at a height of 2m (6 ft. 8 inches) or more above the ground, 
dock bottom, deck or tank top, shall be less than 45 cm (18 inches) wide. 

(6) Planks supported on the rungs of ladders shall not be used to support stages. 

(7) (a) Stages suspended by ropes or chains shall be secured as far as possible, 

so as to prevent their swinging. 

(b) Fibre ropes shall not be used for suspending stages except where auch 
stages are suspended from rope reeved through blocks. 

44. Restriction on Employment. — No person under 18 years of age shall be 
required to work on a ship on a stage above the level of the ground. 



Sbc. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MARCH 8, 1958/PHALGUNA 17. 1879 m 


45. Precautions against falling Material.— In the case of double banking, where 
dock workers are required to work on a stage and other dock workers are at work 
directly, beneath such stage, adequate measures, shall be taken to prevent the fall of 
articles or materials. 

In particular — 

(a) the planks forming a stage on the outside of the ship shall be maintained 

In such a position that no article or material can fall between them; 
and 

(b) the inside plank of the upper stage shall be placed as near as possible 

[to the ship’s side and the outer plank shall extend beyond the edge of 
;the stage below. 

4ti. Lighting. — (1) All parts of the ship where dock workers are working on 
stages shall |be efficiently lighted. 

(2) If portable lamps, including hand lamps carried by the dock workers, are 
used for anji part of such lighting, they shall be maintained in good condition. Oil 
lamps shall ' be provided with properly fitted screw lids or stoppers and be so 
constructed hs to prevent, as far as practicable, the development of leaks. Oil or 
spirit with a flash point below 23°C. (73°F) (close test) shall not be used for 
purpose of lighting. 


Dangerous Substances and Environments 

47. General Precautions. — -(1) Dangerous substances shall only be loaded, un- 
loaded and otherwise handled under the supervision of a competent person who is 
familiar with the risks and the precautions to be taken, 

(2) Special precautions, such as provision of mats, sling nets, boxes and high 
sided trays or pallets, shall be taken to prevent breakage of or damage to containers 
of dangerous substances during loading, unloading and otherwise handling. 

(3) If containers of dangerous substances are broken or damaged to a dangerous 
extent, work shall be stopped and the dock workers concerned moved to a safe 
place until the danger has been eliminated. 

(4) Dock workers loading or unloading or otherwise handling dangerous subs- 
tances shall, where necessary, be provided with suitable protective equipment. 

48. Corrosive and caustic substances. — (1) Where corrosive and caustic subs- 
tances are handled or stored special precautions shall be taken to prevent damage 
to the containers and render any spillage harmless by use of absorbent or neutralis- 
ing agents while cleaning it. 

(2) When during handling of any corrosive or caustic substance there is likll- 
hood of any spillage of the substance, no dock workers shall be allowed to work 
without wearing suitable protective equipment. 

(3) Dock workers engaged in the removal of damaged containers containing 
corrosive or caustic substances shall be provided with suitable protective equipment. 

49. Other dangerous substances. — (1) Before fumigated cargo such as grain is 

loaded or unloaded, adequate measures shall be taken to ensure that the cargo is 
safe to handle. 

(2) If skins, wool, hair, bones or other animal parts have not been certified as 
having been disinfected, In particular against anthrax, or in cases where a risk 
of infection is suspected, the dock workers concerned shall: — 

(a) be instructed in the risks of infection and the precautions to be taken, for 

example, by cautionary notices or placards; and 

(b) be provided with suitable protective equipment. 

50. Dust and Fume, etc. — In every dock In which by reason of work being 
carried on by dock workers there Is given off any dust or fume or other impurity 
of such a nature and to such an extent as is likely to be injurious or offensive to 
the dock workers employed therein, or any dust in substantial quantities, effective 
measures shall be taken to remove the dust, fumes or other impurities which may 
be present and to prevent any further ingress thereof, and the employer shall satisfy 
himself that the space, is free from dust, fumes or other impurities and fit for the 
dock workers to work therein, or shall provide the dock workers working therein 
with suitable protective equipment. 

51. Deficiency of Oxygen. — Before dock workers are permitted- to enter tanks oj 
other confined spaces In which rusting or fermentation of organic substances may 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MARCH 8, 19S8/PHALGUNA 17, 1879 [Part II 


have caused deficiency of oxygen, such spaces shall be tested by suitable means, 
such as with a flame safety lamp, for the presence of sufficient oxygen. 

32 . Fumigated spaces. — Before dock workers are permitted to work in a confined 
space which has been fumiga'.ed, the space shall be certified safe by a competent 
person. 


Miscellaneous 

53. Machinery.— (1) In every dock, every flywheel and every moving part of 
any prime-mover and, unless they are in such position or of such construction as 
to be as safe to every dock worker employed as they would be as if they were 
securely fenced, every part of transmission machinery and every dangerous part 
of other machinery (whether or not driven by mechanical power) shall be securely 
fenced. 

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the sub-clause (1) above, all motors, 
cogwheels, chain and friction gearing, shafting, and steam pipes shall be securely 
fenced so far as is practicable. 

(3) The fencing of dangerous parts of machinery shall not be removed while 
the machinery is in use, but if removed shall be replaced as soon as praticable 
and in any ease before the machinery is taken Into normal use again. 

(4) No part of any machinery which is in motion and which is not securely 
fenced shall be examined, lubricated, adjusted or repaired except by persons 
duly authorised. 

(5) Machine parts shall only be cleaned when the machine Is stopped. 

(6) When machinery is stopped for servicing or repairs, adequate measures 
shall be taken to ensure that it cannot be Inadvertently restarted. 

54. Electrical Equipment. — (1) Only duly authorised person shall be permitted 
to install, adjust, examine, repair, displace or remove electrical equipment or 
circuits. 

(2) Efficient and suitably located means shall be provided for cutting off all 
pressure from every parr of the system as may be necessary to prevent danger. 

(3) All portable electric equipment shall be inspected by a competent person 
at least once In every day of use. 

C4) Electrical equipment exposed to the weather shall be adequately protected 
against wet or corrosion. 

(5) All non-current-carrying metal parts of electrical equipment shall be 
earthed or other suitable measures shall be taken to prevent them from becoming 
Uve. 

(6) Portable or flexible electric conductors shall be kept clear of loads, run- 
ning gear and moving equipment. 

(7) Portable electric lamps shall be used only — 

(a) where adequate permanent fixed lighting cannot be provided; and 

(b) at a pressure safe in the particular conditions of work. 

55. Ladders, — (1) All metal, wooden, rope or other ladders that have to be 
used by dock workers shall be of sound material, good construction and ade- 
quate strength for the purpose for which they arc intended and shall be properly 
maintained. 

(2) Wooden ladders shall not be painted, but oiled or covered with clear 
varnish or other transparent preservative. 

(3) Where practicable, ladders shall rise, or be provided with an adequate 
handhold, to a height of 1m (3ft. 3In.) above the top landing place, 

(4) Portable ladders shall not stand on a loose base. 

(5) Portable ladders shall be properly placed and secured in place. 

(6) No ladder shall be used which has — 

(a) a missing or defective rung; or 

(b) any rung which depends for its support on nails, spikes or other similar 

fixing. 

(7) All ladders shall be inspected at suitable intervals by a competent person, 
and if dangerous defects are found in any ladder, the ladder shall be immediately 
taken out of service. 



S*c. J (iijj THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MARCH 8, 1958/PHALGUNA 17, 1879 113. 


56, Fire Protection. — (1) Places where dock workers are employed shall, be 
provided with — 

(a) sufficient and suitable flre-extingulshing equipment; and 

(b) an adequate water supply at ample pressure. 

(2) Persons trained to use the Are-extlngulshlng equipment shall be readily 
available during all working hours. 

(3) Fire-extinguishing equipment shall be properly maintained and Inspected at 
suitable intervals. 

(4) Rules concerning the places In docks and time at which smoking may be 
permitted shall be laid down by the Port authority, 

57. Rescue. — Provision for rescue from drowning of dock workers shall be made 
and maintained, and shall include — 

(a) supply of life-saving appliances, kept in readiness on the wharf or quay 

which shall be reasonably adequate having regard to all the circum- 
stances; and 

(b) means at or near the surface of the water at reasonable Intervals for 

enabling a person Immersed to support means of escape from the 
water which shall be reasonably adequate having regard to all the 
circumstances. 


PART V 
Miscellaneous 

58. Saving. — The provisions of this Scheme shall not operate to the prejudice of 
the provisions of the Indian Dock Labourers Act, 1934 (19 of 1934) and the Indian 
Dock Labourers’ Regulations, 1948 made thereunder. 

59. Penalties. — (1) Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Scheme whoever 
being a person whose duty it is to comply with any of the paragraphs in this 
Scheme contravenes any of Its provisions shall be punishable with imprisonment 
not exceeding three months in respect of a first contravention or six months in 
respect bf any subsequent contravention or with fine not exceeding rupees five 
hundred In respect of a first contravention or rupees one thousand in respect of 
any subsequent contravention or with both imprisonment and fine as aforesaid. 

(2) Any person who wilfully obstructs an Inspector In the exercise of any of his 
powers under the Act or fails to produce any register or other document kept in 
pursuance of this Scheme or conceals or prevents or attempts to prevent any person 
from appearing before, or being examined by an Inspector, shall be punishable 
with imprisonment not exceeding three months or with fine not exceeding rupees 
five hundred or with both. 


Schedule I 
(See paragraph 5) 

(List of Notifiable Diseases ) 

(1) Lead tetra — ethyl poisoning. 

(2) Manganese poisoning or its sequalae. 

(3) Carbon bisulphide poisoning. 

( 4 ) Benzene poisoning, including poisoning by any of its homologues, their nitro 
or amldo derivatives or its sequalae. 

( 5 ) Anthrax. 

(fl) Pneumoconosis. 

(7) Poisoning by halogens or halogen derivatives of the hydrocarbons of the 
aliphatic series. 


(8) Primary epitheliomatous cancer of the skin. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MARCH 8, I958/PHALGUNA 17, 1879 [Pa*t IL 


SCHEDULE II 
(See paragraph 15(3)] 

(Equipment required for a First-Aid box or cupboard ) 

1. A copy of the first-aid leaflet issued by the Chief Adviser Factories, Ministry 

of Labour, Government of India, New Delhi. 

2 . Forty-eight sterilised Anger dressings. 

3. Twenty-four sterilised hand or foot dressings. 

4. Twenty sterilised large or body dressings. 

5. Six small, four large and two extra large sterilised burn dressings. 

0. Three half-ounce packets sterilised cotton wool. 

7 . A bottle of two per cent, tincture of iodine. 

8. A bottle of sal volatile. 

9. Eye drops prepared as described in the first-aid leaflet. 

10. Set of splints, cotton wool for padding. 

11. Spool 10 meters by 2 ‘5c, (ten yards by one inch), of adhesive plaster. 

12. St. John Tourniquet. 

13. Eighteen assorted roller bandages in envelopes. 

14. Nine triangular bandages In envelopes. 

15. Box of safety pins. 

16. One pair surgical scissors. 

17. Two ounce medicine glass. 


SCHEDULB III 


[See paragraph 16(2)] 


(Equipment required for an Ambulance Room ) 


(i) A glazed sink with hot and cold water always available. 

(if) A tabic with a smooth top at least 2mxi-zm(6'X3' 6'). 

(iii) Means of eter lizing instruments, 

(tv) A couch. 

(t v ) Two standard Army Pattern or “Furloy” telescopic handle stretchers complete With 
slings. 

(vf) Two buckets or containers with close fitting lids. 

(nit) Two rubber hot water bags. 

(vtif) A kettle and spirit stove or other suitable means of boiling water, 
fix) Twelve plain wooden splints 1 cm x 10 cm X 6mm (36' X if x 4 '). 

(x) Twelve plain wooden splints 35cm X 7 ■ 5cm X 6mm (14' X 3' X t'). 

(xi) Six plain wooden splints 25cm X 5cm X 12mm (10' X2'X {'). 

(xti) Six woollen blankets. 

(xiif) One pa r artery forceps. 

(xiv) One bottle of brandy. 

( xv ) Two medium size sponges, 

(xvf) Six hand towels. 

(xvttj Four “Kindncy” trays. 

(xviii) Four cakes carbolic soap. 

( xix ) Two glass tumblers and two wine glasses. 

(xx) Two clinical thermometers. 

f x xi) Graduated measuring glass with teaspoon. 

(xxii) One eye bath. 

(xxiii) One bottle 1 kg. (2 lbs.) carbolic lotion 1 in 20. 

(xxiv) Three Chairs. 

(xxv) One screen. 

(xxvi) One electric hand torch. 

(xxvifj Four first-aid boxes or cup boards stocked to standards prescribed in the Schedule II„ 
(xxuiii) An adequate supply of anti-tetanus serum. 



Sec. 3 ((I)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MARCH 8, 1958 /PHALGUNA 17 , 1879 


115 


Schedule IV 
paragraph 32(1)] 

Manner of Test and Examination before taking lifting machinery and gear into use 

(d) Every crane and other hoisting machine with its necessary gear shall be tested with 
a proof load which shall exceed the safe working load as follows : — 


Safe working load 


Proof load 


Upto 20 tons . . . -25 per cent, in excess. 

20 — 50 tons . . . . .5 tons in excess. 

Oyer SO tons ..... 10 per cent, in excess. 


The said proof load shall be hoisted and swung as far as possible in both directions. In the case 
of a jib-crane if the jib has a variable radius, it shall be tested with a proof load aB defined above a t 
the maximum and minimum radii of the jib. In the case of hydraulic cranes or hoistB, where, owing 
to the limitation ofpressure, it is impossible to hoist a load 25 per cent, in excess of the Bafe working 
load, it shall be sufficient to hoist the greatest possible load. 

(b) Every article of loose gear (whether it is necessary to a machinery or nof) shall be tested 
with a proof load at least equal to that shown against the article in the following table : — 


Article of Gear 


Proof load 


Pitched chains used with hand operated Pulley 
Blocks and Bings, Hooks, Shackles or Swivels 
permanently attached thereto. 

Oliver chains "] 

Other Rings j 

Other Hooks ] 

Other Shackles j 

Other Swivels J 

Hand operated Pulley Blocks used with pitched 
Chains and Rings, Hooks, Shackles or Swivels 
permanently attached thereto. 

Other Pulley Blocks — 

Single Sheave Block ..... 

Multiple Sheave Block with safe working load upto 
and including 20 tons. 

Multiple Sheave Block with the safe working load 
over 20 tons upto and including 40 tons. 

Multiple Sheave Block with the safe working 
load over 40 tons. 


One and a half times the safe working load. 

Twice the safe working load. 

One and a half times the safe working load. 

Four times the safe working load. 

Twice the safe working load. 

Twenty tonB in excess of the safe working 
load. 

One and a half times the safe working load. 


Provided that where an Inspector is of opinion that, owing to the size, design, 
construction, material or use of any such loose gear or class of such gear, any of 
the above requirements are not necessary for the protection of dock workers, he may 
by certificate in writing and subject to confirmation by the Central Government 
exempt such gear or class of gear from such requirement, subject to such condi- 
tions as may be stated in the certificate. 



Xl6 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MARCH 8, I958/PHALGUNA 17, 1879 [Pam U 


(c) After being tested as aforesaid, all machines with the whole of the gear 
accessory thereto and all loose gear shall be examined, the sheaves and the pins oi 
the pulley block being removed for the purpose, to see that no part is injured or 
permanently deformed by the test. 

(d) In the case of wire rope a sample shall be tested to destruction and the safe 
working load shall not exceed one-fifth of the breaking load of the sample tested. 


FORM I 


To be sent to Inspector, 

Address 

Report of accident or dangerous occurrence 
(See paragraph 4 of the Dock Workers (Safety, Health and Welfare)] Scheme, 1958 

( See Instructions overleaf ) 

1. Name of Employer 

2. Address of employer 

3. Ship, or other exact place where accident or dangerous occurrence happened 


4. Date and hour of accident or dangerous occurrence 

5. (1) Name and address of Injured person Sex Age 

Occupation 

(2) Nature and extent of injuries (e.g, fatal, loss of finger, fracture of leg)....„ 

(3) By whom treatment wasi 'given 

(4) Was the injured person disabled from work for more than 48 hours? 

6. Hour at which injured person started work 

7. Cause of accident or dangerous occurrence 

8. Accident: 

(a) If caused by machinery, state: — 

(i) Name of machine and part causing accident 

(ii) If moved by mechanical power at the time 

(b) State exactly what injured person was doing 

9. Nature of Dangerous occurrence: 


Signature 

Date 

(to be filled in by Inspector) 

Port 

Date of Receipt 
Accident/Dangerous 
Occurrence No. 

Causation 

Sex 

Remarks 

(To be printed In the reverse) 


INSTRUCTIONS 

Reports of accidents and dangerous occurrences 

(1) Notice of any accident In a dock which either — 

(a) causes loss of life to a dock worker, or 

(b) disables a dock worker from work on which he was employed for the 
rest of the day or shift on which the accident occurred. 

shall forthwith be sent by telegram, telephone or special messenger within 
four hours of the occurrence to — 

(1) the Inspector notified for the purpose; 


8 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MARCH 8, 1958/PHALGUNA 17, 1879 




(it) the relatives of — 

(a) deceased dock worker in case of fatal accident; and 

(b) the dock worker injured, in case the injury Is of such a serious 

nature that the dock worker is likely to be disabled from work for 
more than ten days; and 
(ili) In the case of fatal accidents only, 

(a) the offlcer-in-charge of the nearest Police Station, and 
fb) the District Magistrate or if the District Magistrate by order so directs, 
the Sub-Divisional Magistrate: 

Provided that a notice of any accident of which notice is sent in accordance 
with the requirements of the Explosives Act, 1884, or the Petroleum Act. 1934, or 
the Indian Dock Labourers Act, 1934, need not be sent In accordance with this 
sub-paragraph. 

(2) Where any accident causing disablement is notified under this sub-paragraph 
and after notification thereof results in the death of the dock worker disabled, 
notice in writing of the death shall be sent to the authorities mentioned In sub- 
paragraph (1) Immediately the death occurs. 

(3) The following classes of dangerous occurrences shall forthwith be reported to 
the Inspector in the manner described in sub-paragraph (1), wheLher death or 
disablement is caused or not: — 

(1) collapse or failure of a lifting machinery used in raising or lowering of 
persons or goods, and breakage or failure of ropes, chains, or other 
appliances forming part of lifting machinery or the overturning or 
displacement of a crane; 

(ii) collapse or subsidence of any wall, floor, gallery, roof, platform, staging 

and means of access provided in accordance with the Scheme; 

(iii) bursting of a vessel containing steam under pressure greater than atmos- 

pheric pressure other than plant which comes within the scope of the 
Indian Boilers Act; 

(iv) explosion or fire causing damage to any room or place in which dock 

workers are employed; 

(v) explosion of a receiver or vessel used fo r the storage, at a pressure greater 

than atmospheric pressure, of any gas or gases (Including air) or any 
liquid or solid resulting from the compression of gas. 

( 4 ) Every notice given under sub-paragraph (1) or sub-paragraph (3) shall 
be confirmed within ninetysix hours of the occurrence by sending a written report 
to the Inspector in Form I provided that in case of an accident under clause 
(b) of subrparagraph (1) such written report need be sent only when the dock 
worker Is disabled from work on which he was employed for more than fortyeight 
hours immediately after the accident. 

FORM II 
(See paragraph 5) 

To be filled in by the Inspector. 

No. of case , 

Remarks 


Notice of poisoning or disease 
(See instructions cm reverse) 

1. Name and address of the Employer 

2. Name of the patient and his work No, if any 

3. Address of the patient 

4. Sex and age of the patient 

3. Precise occupation of the patient... 

fl. State exactly what the patient was doing at the time of contracting disease- 


7. Nature of Poisoning or Disease from which the patient is suffering. 


(Signature of the Employer) 
Date 



Il8 the GAZETTE OF INDIA, MARCH 8, 1958/PHALGUNA 17. 1879 [Part II 


(Reverse side of Form II) 

Notification of certain Diseases 
(Extract from paragraph 5 of the Scheme) 

(1) When a dock worker contracts any disease specified in Schedule I a notice 
in Form II shall be sent forthwith to the Inspector. 

Schedule I 

(List of Notifiable Diseases) 

(1) Lead tetra-ethyl poisoning. 

(2) Manganese poisoning or its sequalae. 

(3) Carbon bisulphide poisoning. 

(4) Benzene poisoning, including poisoning by any of its horpologues, their nltro 
or amldo derivatives or its sequalae. 

(5) Anthrax. 

(6) Pneumoconcwis. 

(7) Poisoning by halogens or halogen derivatives of the hydrocarbons of the 
aliphatic series. 

(8) Primary epithelimatous cancer of the skin. 


Duties of Port Authorities etc. under the Scheme 

(Extract from paragraph 6 of the Scheme) 

(2) (a) it shall be the duty of every employer of dock workers 

to comply with the requirements of paragraphs 

and 5 , 


[No. Fac. 183(1) /57.] 
K. N. NAMBIAR, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 27 th February 1958 

S.O- 179. — Whereas immediately before the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 
1952 (19 of 1952), became applicable with effect from the 1st August, 1950, to the 
factory known as the Ahmednagar Electric Supply Company Limited. Abmeidnagar, 
there was In existence a provident fund common to the employees employed in the 
factory of the said company to which the said Act applies and the employees In 
their Head office at Nariman House, 47-A, Bamanjl Master Road, Dhobltalao, 
Bombay-2; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the said Act, 
the Central Government hereby directs that the provisions of the said Act shall also 
apply to the aforesaid Head Office of the said Company situated at Bombay. 

[No. P. F. 11-9(3) /68.] 
BALWANT SINGH, Under Secy. 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 26 th February 1958 

S.O. 180, — Whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that an indus- 
trial dispute exists between the employers in relation to Sree Madanpur Colliery, 
H.O. Ondal, District Burdwan, and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section 
(1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tri- 
bunal, Dhanbad constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 



Sec. 8 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MARCH 8, 1958/PHALGUNA 17, 1879 


119 


Schedule 

(a) Whether the change of designations of Sarvashrl Sudhir Kumar Chatterjee, 
Srinath Chakxavarti, Sudhansu Shankar Ganguli, from Mining Sanders to Shot 
flrers by the management of Sree Madanpur Colliery was Justified having regard to 
their qualifications and the directions given ipn paragraph 787 of the Award of 
the A.I.I.T. (Colliery Disputes) read with Appendix XVII of the Award. 

(b) Whether the termination of services of the three persons aforesaid by the 
management of the said colliery was wrongful and if so, whether they should bo 
reinstated pr given any other alternative relief. 

[No. LBII-S 5- 1 (8 5) / fl 7-1 

S.O. 18lf.— Whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that an indus- 
trial dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Burdroochuck Colliery 
of M/S Biid & Company, (Private) Ltd,, P.O. Sijua, Dhanbad and their workmen 
in respect (of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section 

(1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tri- 
bunal, Dhanbad constituted under section 7A of the said Act, 

Schedule 

(1) Whether the transfer of Shri Mathura Prasad from Grade II to III by the 
management of Burdroochuck Colliery was justified or it amounted to improper 
demotion? 

(2) Whether keeping (1) above in view, his subsequent dismissal was wrongful? 

(3) If so, what relief Is he entitled to? 

[No. LRII-2(7)/58.] 

S.O. 182. — -Whereas the Central Government Is of the opinion that an indus- 
trial dispute exists or Is apprehended between the employers in relation to the 
Baljwa and Charkitelaiya mica mines of Messrs Chotturam Horilram (Private) 
Limited, P.O. Jhumritelaiya and their workmen in respect of the matters specified 
in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-sec- 
tion (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tri- 
bunal at Dhanbad, constituted under the section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

(1) "whether the lock-out in the Baijwa Mica Mine with effect from the 

12th November, 1957 and its subsequent closure was justified and, 
if not. to what relief the workers are entitled? 

(2) Whether the strike in the Charkitelaiya Mica Mines with effect from the 

14th November to 9th December 1957 was justified and If so, to 
what relief the workmen are entitled? 

[No. LRII-50-l(lO)/57.] 
A. L. HANDA, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 28 th February 1958 

S.O. 183. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section 5 of the 
Cinematograph Act, 1952 (XXXVII of 1952). the Central Government hereby 
directs that the film entitled "For Men Only” and its trailer produced by Paul 
Henreid, U.S.A., shall be deemed to be uncertified films hi the whole of India. 

[No. 8/11/57-FC.] 



120 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MARCH 8, 1958/PHALGUNA 17, 1879 [Past II 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 27th February 1958 
8.0. 184. — The Central Government hereby; 

(a) directs, In pursuance of the provisions of the Order of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No. S.R.O. 3805, 
dated the 26th December, 1955 and In modification of the Order of the 
Government of India In the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting 
No. S.O. 115, dated the 10th February, 1958 that the Advisory Panel 
of the Central Board of Film Censors at Madras shall consist of 25 
members with immediate effect; and 

(ta) appoints, after consultation with the Central Board of Film Censors, the 
following persons as members of Advisory Panel of the said Board at 
Madras with Immediate effect in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-rule (3) of rule 0 read with sub-rule (1) of rule 10 of the Cinemato- 
graph (Censorship) Rules, 1951: — 

1. Shrl T. Chengalvaroyan, 

2. Shri B. K. Sarvotham Rao. 

3. Shri S. Mahalingam. 

[No. 14/1/57-FC.] 

D. R, KHANNA, Under Sacy. 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER, GOVT. OP INDIA PRESS, 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OP PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1958 




