ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಹಫ್ರ 


ಅಧಿಕೃ ತವಾಗಿ ಪ್ರಕಟಿಸಲಾದುದು 


ಸಂಪುಟ -೧೫೭ ಬೆ೦ಗಳೂರು, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ (ವೈಶಾಖ,೧೬, ಶಕವರ್ಷ, ೧೯೪೪) ಸಂಚಿಕೆ ೮೬ 
Volume - 157 BENGALURU, FRIDAY, 06, MAY, 2022 ( VAISHAKHA, 16, SHAKAVARSHA, 1944) Issue 86 


ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ 
ರಾಜ್ಯದ ವಿಧೇಯಕಗಳ ಮತ್ತು ಅವುಗಳ ಮೇಲೆ ಪರಿಶೀಲನಾ ಸಮಿತಿಯ ವರದಿಗಳು, ರಾಜ್ಯದ 
ಅಧಿನಿಯಮಗಳು ಮತ್ತು Sar, ದೇಶಗಳು, ಕೇಂದ್ರದ ಮತ್ತು ರಾಜ್ಯದ ಶಾಸನಗಳ ಮೇರೆಗೆ Toes, ಸರ್ಕಾರವು 


3 


ಹೊರಡಿಸಿದ ಸಾಮಾನ್ಯ ಶಾಸ ಸನಬದ್ಧ ನಿಯಮಗಳು ಮತು. ರಾಜ್ಯಾ ೦ಗದ ಮೇರೆಗೆ ರಾಜ್ಯಪಾಲರು ಮಾಡಿದ 


ನಿಯಮಗಳು ಹಾಗೂ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ಉಚ್ಛ ನ್ಯಾಮಾಲಯವು ಮಾಡಿದ ನಿಯಮಗಳು 


GOVERNMENT OF KARNATAKA 


No.HD 15 CNA 2017(p-1) Karnataka Government Secretariat, 
Vidhana Soudha, 
Bengaluru, Dated: 30.04.2022. 


NOTIFICATION 

Whereas the draft of the following rules further to amend the Karnataka Cinemas 
(Regulation) Rules, 2014 was published as required by sub-section (1) of section 19 of 
the Karnataka Cinemas (Regulation) Act, 1964 (Karnataka Act 23 of 1964) in 
Notification No. HD 15 CAN 2017(P-1), dated: 26.12.2019 in part-IV-A of the 
Karnataka Gazette dated:13.02.2020 inviting objections and suggestions from all the 
persons likely to be affected within thirty days from the date of its publication in the 
Official Gazette. 

Whereas, the said Gazette was made available to the public on 13.02.2020. 

And, Whereas objections and suggestions received in this behalf have been 
considered by the State Government. 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 19 of the Karnataka 
Cinemas (Regulation) Act, 1964 (Karnataka Act 23 of 1964) the Government of 


Karnataka hereby makes the following rules, namely:- 
(೫೪೪೦) 


ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ೫೪೪೧ 


RULES 


1. Title and Commencement.-(1) These rules may be called the Karnataka 


Cinemas (Regulation) (Amendment) Rules, 2022 


(2) They shall come into force from the date of their publication in the Official 
Gazette. 

2. Insertion of new Chapter XVI-A- In the Karnataka Cinemas (Regulation) 
Rules, 2014 (hereinafter referred to as the said rules) After Chapter XVI, the following 
Chapter shall be inserted namely:- 


“Chapter XVI- A” 


180A. Establishment of Mini Theaters or Mini Digital Theaters.-For the 
purpose of this chapter Mini Theatre or Mini Digital Theatre means, a Theatre having 
seating capacity of not more than 199 seats over a floor space of at least 4000 sq ft. 
which can be established as a standalone structure or as part of commercial centers, 
Shopping Malls, Convention Centers, Bus Stations, Railway station, Multi-utility 


areas, etc. 


180B. Conditions for grant of No Objection Certificate through Single 
window system.- 


Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules,- 


(1)Any person who is interested to establish a Mini Theatre or Mini Digital 
Theatre shall apply to the licensing authority in Form A online with the 
details required for obtaining No Objection Certificate to take up construction 


along with a fee through online Khajana system. 


(2)On receipt of online application for No Objection Certificate the licensing 
authority shall communicate the same to all consulting agencies or 
department online like PWD, Local Authority concerned or urban local body, 


Electricity Department, Fire Force Department, Police Department and 


೫೪೪೨ 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ 


request them to furnish their comments/objection, if any, within thirty days 
through online. 

(3) The Licensing Authority shall also publish the notice in Form B and Form ಛಿ 
for No Objection Certificate to the knowledge of persons likely to be affected 
and call for objections simultaneously as soon as he receives the online 


application. 


(4) All consulting departments shall appoint a Nodal Officer of that department 
who can examine the proposal and the give clearance or comments with 


reasons within thirty days. 


(5) The Licensing Authority after considering the No Objection/Comments of all 
consulting departments obtained online and objections filed by the persons 
likely to be affected, if any and in case, if, all the departments give clearance, 
he shall issue No Objection Certificate in Form D within forty five days of 


the receipt of online application to undertake construction by the applicant. 


(6) In case if there is any objection from any of the consulting department or any 
person likely to be affected, the Licensing Authority shall communicate the 
same online to the applicant and ask him to rectify the defects or objections 


raised within fifteen days. 


If the applicant complies with the objections or rectifies the mistakes the 
Licensing Authority shall communicate the No Objection Certificate to the 
applicant in Form D within 21 days from the date of receipt of compliance or 


rectification to take up construction. 


180C. Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, in order to reduce 
the delay in grant of permission to Mini Theatre or Mini Digital Theatre, the 
Licensing Authority,- 


(a) shall not permit Mini Theatre or Mini Digital Theatre within the gated 
residential community; 


(b)may permit Mini Theatre or Mini Digital Theatre even in rural areas; 


ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ೫೪೪೩ 


(೦) shall permit with 20% of the built up area for parking area; 
(d)shall not permit if exhibition point or multiple screen exist within 2 km 
radius. 


(೮) may permit to convert Single screen theatre into Mini Digital Theatre; 


180D. The licensing authority after considering all the above conditions and after 
consulting the completion report of the applicant shall forward online to all consulting 
departments and obtain No Objections from all the consulting departments for grant of 
license to operate the theatre within thirty days. 

180E. After obtaining No Objection Certificate from all the consulting agencies or 
departments, the Licensing Authority may grant permission to operate in Form-F of 
the theatre within forty five days of the date of online application. The validity or 
duration of the license shall be for a period of one year. 

180F. Renewal of license.-The Licensing Authority on application by the theatre 
owner for renewal online shall follow the same procedure to consult all agencies or 
department online and if there is No Objections for renewal the license for a period of 


two years thereafter. 


180G. Accordingly, the following relaxations are made to the existing norms, 
namely:- 

(a)Convenient and comfortable seating arrangement along any direction with 
sufficient spacing between rows can be provided in such theatres without 
necessarily mandated seating arrangement in any singular direction. 

(b) Form B-License shall be considered as singular License encompassing all 
permissions which shall be effective for a period of one year initially and 
renewed. 

(c) Further every two years, the form B shall be issued online through 


single window system. 


180H. In case the permitted owner violates the conditions laid down in these 


rules viz., building plan, Fire fitting equipment, sanitary requirements and other norms 


೫೪೪೪ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ 


the permission granted under this rule shall be withdrawn or suspended with a prior 
notice to the grantee.” 
3. Amendment to Forms.-For Form A, Form B, Form C, and Form D of the said 


rules, the following forms shall be substituted, namely:- 


FORM ‘A’ 
[See rule 24(1), 89, 116 and 180B(1)] 
Online Application format for construction of (Cinema Building) 


To 

The District Magistrate, 
District 

Sir, 


I hereby apply for the grant of ‘No Objection Certificate’ for the location of [permanent/ 
mini or mini digital / drive-in/ touring cinemas] in my favour and give the details as follows- 


E-Sign/ Signature of the applicant. 


1. Full Name of the Applicant 
2. Father’s / Husband’s name and occupation 
3. Permanent address of the applicant: 
(i) Village / D.No. 
(11) Taluk /ward/Division 
(111) District 
4. Present occupation of the applicant 
5. Is the application for:- 


(i) 

(11) | [Permanent, Mini or Mini Digital Cinemas / 
Drive —in / Touring Cinemas] 

(iii) 


(iv) Cinema of special character 


6. Place where the cinema is proposed to be located: 
(1) R.S.No. / Site No./ C.T.S.No. 
(ii) Village/Extension/Ward/Division 
(ii)  Taluk/Town 
(iv) District 


7. Is the land / site owned by the applicant 
8. Is the land / site s not owned by the applicant 
(i) | Name and address of the owner 


ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ನಪತ್ರ ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ BYOB 
s — me) 


(ii) | Is document to prove the lawful occupation of the applicant enclosed. 


9. Is the applicant is possession of other places if and licensed under the Act. 
(a) Whether is the same locality or elsewhere. 
(b) Whether at the time of applying for license or any previous time? 


10. Are the following attached to the application: 

(1) Katha extract 

(2) Certificate to the effect of clearance of land revenue / municipal tax: 

(3) Certificate of conversion of the land for non-agricultural purposes if it is revenue 
land 

(4) Copy of Form “B” 

(5) Treasury Challan for payment of fees for ‘No Objection Certificate’ under Rule 27 
or fees under Rule 28. 

(6) Drawings required under clauses (a) and (b) of Rule 24 (2) or 90. 


11. Distance by public road of the proposed site to the: 
(1) Nearest Permanent Cinema 
(2) Nearest Touring Cinema 
(3) Nearest education institution 
(4) Nearest hospital 
(5) Nearest temple or other religious institution. 


12. Population of the place according to the latest census figures. 


13. Benefit to any particular locality or localities to be afforded by the location of a new 
place of cinema exhibition. 


Place: 
Date: E-Sign/ Signature of the Applicant. 


Note-1. [Item 10(3) is] not applicable when application is made under Rule 89. 
Note-2. [Item 4,9,12 and 13 is] not applicable when application is made under Rule- 
180B(1). 


೫೪೪೬ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ 


FORM ‘B’ 
[See rule 24(1) 116 and 180B(3)] 


Notice by the Applicant under the Karnataka Cinemas (Regulation) Rules, 2014 


Please take notice that 0 ್ಮ್ಮಚಿ son/daughter/wife of.................64. 
aged....... years, resident of — Village/ DUNO fuss toes POWs ಬಜಾನ 22 
1180ರ ಚಯೂಮಜ propose locating a [permanent/mini or mini digital/drive-in/touring 
cinemas | on the land belonging to me ೨00/೧ ಗು ಒಡ ಬಜ and 
bearingE.S./Site/C.T.S.No............. Village/Ward/Division.................0085 Taluk/ 

TOW ಟ ಟಟ ಲಫಫಬಬ೪್ಹ ಪ ಲ ಬ ್‌ and measuring about.......... Sq.M. and bounded as 
under 


(Here give the boundaries of the site and Google Map Copy) 


Notice is hereby given that any objections to the location of the said cinema should be 
lodged with District Magistrate of............... District, within such time as may be noticed by 
him. 


Owner/Lessee 


FORM ‘C’ 


[See rule 25(1), 117 and 180B(3)] 


Notice by the Licensing Authority under the Karnataka Cinemas (Regulation) Rules, 


2014 
Whereas Shri ರ್ಮ? son / Daughter / £Wife = of 
ಎ ಪ ಲ್ಪ aged...... years resident of Village/D.No............ Taluk/Ward 
No/Division........... Town............ [150100 ಸಾಜಾ has applied to me for the grant of 


‘No Objection Certificate’ for the location of a [permanent/ mini of mini digital/drive- 


in/touring cinemas] on the land belonging to him/her/Shri/Smt............... and bearing the 
Revenue Survey No.(s)/ Site / 
CUTS NO (8) ssanetarseea ces village/Ward/Division.............. Taluk/Town............. District...... 


ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ನಪತ್ರ ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ೫೪೪೭ 
ಗ a 


(Here give the boundaries of the site and Google Map Copy) 

Notice is hereby given that any person having any objection to the grant of ‘No Objection 
Certificate’ as aforesaid, should lodge his objection in writing with undersigned by the 
ಬುಸು day of 20............Any objections received beyond the date will not be taken 
into consideration. 


Given under my hand this day...................04. OF 20 ves cts 


District Magistrate or Licensing Authority 


FORM ‘D’ 


[See rule 27(1), 118(1) and 180B(5)] 


No objection Certificate under the Karnataka Cinemas (Regulation) Rules, 2014 


In exercise of the powers conferred by Rule 27 of the Karnataka Cinemas (Regulation) 


Rules... 201ರ. Lh. ಸೈವ ಸ District / Additional District Magistrate of 
ಹ ಟ್‌) District, do hereby grant this certificate that there is no objection to 
Shri/SMt: 1 00೪2ಅ೪ಊ-[೭೫-೯-೫-. Son/Daughter/Wife ೦1೯... ಎಸ ಪೂ ಸೂ ಪಸ ಸ ಹೂ aged...... years, resident of 
Village/D.No............ Taluk/Ward No/Division............. TOWD.........06 
12150160 22232222 for location a [permanent/ mini of mini digital/drive-in/touring cinemas] 
in the land belonging to him/her Shri/Smt............... and bearing the R.S./ Site / 
ಟಟ ಲ ಲ ಚಚೃದೌ village/Ward/Division......... Taluk/Town....... District......... and 
measuring about........ Sq.Metres/Ha. and bounded as under: 


Please give here description of the site as in Form ‘B’ and Google Map Copy 
(This ‘No Objection Certificate’ is valid for the period specified in Rules 27 or Rule 118(1) 
as the case may be. 


Given under my hand this............. day of ............. 20. 


District Magistrate ................. or Licensing Authority. 


೫೪೪೮ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ 


3. Amendment of Form F.- For Form F, of the said rules, the following shall be 
substituted, namely:- 
FORM ‘F’ 
[See rule 36, 140 and 180E] 

License for Exhibition of Cinematograph shows in [permanent/ mini or mini 
digital/drive-in cinemas] under the Karnataka Cinemas (Regulation) Rules, 2014. 

1. Name and address of licensee 

2. If the licensee is not the owner of the Cinema theatre, the mane and address of the 
owner thereof 
Situation of the cinema theatre 
Area of the theatre in sq.metres 
Material of which the roof, side walls, galleries and staircases are made 


Date of last inspection by the Executive Engineer 


ಕಾ ದು ಸಪ್ನ ದ ಸ್ಪ 


Date of last inspection by the Electrical Inspector or any person authorized by him in 

this behalf. 

8. Date of last inspection by the Health Officer. 

9. Date of last inspection by the Licensing Authority. 

10. Special conditions, if any, on which the licence is granted. 

11. Period for which the licence is to be in force. 

12. Fees paid. 

13. Maximum number of persons permitted in each part of the auditortum 
Persons 

In the First Class 

In the 

In the 

Inthe 4೯ ೯ ೯ 4...  ಿ೨  .್ಪ.ದಹಥ್ವ್ತ್ವ್ವಬದಬ 


Total = =+--+----- 
Conditions of the Licence 


The licence is granted subject to the provision of the Karnataka Cinemas (Regulation) 


Act, 1964 and the rules made there under. It is also subject to the following conditions:- 


ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ೫೪೪೯ 


1. During the periods of epidemics and similar health hazards to public or in case of disasters, 
in general, the Licensing Authority in consultation with the District Health Officer, Taluk 
Health Officer or the Health Officer of the Municipality, if any, may, if so advised, direct 
by a notice;- 

(a) complete closure; if the need arises; 

(b) a reduction in the scale of accommodation provided in rule 49; 

(c) to disinfect premises periodically which may include spraying and fumigation; and 

(d) to adopt of such other measures for better ventilation as may be specified n such notice; 


and the licensee shall comply forthwith any such direction and in case of failure to do 
so, the license granted to him shall be liable for cancellation. 


2. This licence does not exempt the licensee or his servants or agents from taking out any 
other licence required by or otherwise complying with any other law, rule or bye-law made 
there under. 


3. (a) The licensee shall not exhibit or permit to be exhibited any film other than a film which 
has been certified as suitable for public exhibition by the authority constituted under 
Section 4 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 and which when exhibited displays the 
prescribed mark of that authority and has not been altered or tempered with in anyway 
since such work was affixed thereto; 

[Provided that this condition shall not apply to the exhibition of news reels produced by 
the 
Films Division, Bombay] 


(b) Any film which has been certified by the Board of Film Censors as suitable or public 


exhibition restricted to adults to any person who is not an adult; 


(0) any film the exhibition of which is suspended under Section 6 0 the Act. 
For the purpose of clause (b) of this condition, if there is any doubt as respects the age 
of any person the decision of the Manager given in good faith as respects he question 
shall not be questioned; and where the manager has reasonable doubt as respect the age 
of any person who claims to be an adult the Manager should require such person to 
make a declaration or reverse of the counterfoil of his ticket in the following form 
before admitting him to the film show and explain to him that if on Investigation the 
declaration is found to be false, he shall be liable to be prosecuted for the offence under 


Section 199 of the Indian Penal Code. 


೫೪೫೦ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ 
DECLARATION 
ತಾ ಜಾಯಿಸಪಿೊಾ residing at (state full 
ಜಟ ಟಟ ಟ್‌ ಪ್‌ಲಳಡೀ್‌ಹ್‌0್‌್‌್‌್‌. hereby solemnly declare that I am over eighteen 


years of age. 


Signature. 


The licensee shall not exhibit or permit to be exhibited either within or outside the 
cinema theatre any advertising matter or pictorial representation which is objectionable 


from the point of view of decency or morality. 


. The licensee shall not display or cause to be displayed any photograph picture or poster 


which depicts or represents of purports to represent a scene or shot which has been 
excised from any film under the orders of the Central Board of Film Censor or the 
Central Government. 

The Licensee shall prominently exhibit at each public entrance whenever the premises 
are opened to the public, notice indicating in tabular form and in clear bold letters and 


figures, - 


(a) The title of each film to be shown on that day, other than trailers and advertisement 
films; 

(b) The approximate time of commencement of each such film; 

(c) Whether each such film has received an ‘A’ or ‘U’ certificate from the Central 
Board of Film Censors and 

(d) Whether persons below the age of eighteen years other than children below the age 
of three years will be admitted or not. 

The nature of any certificate received in respect of a film from the Central Board of 

Film Censors shall be clearly indicated by the letter “U” or ‘A’ in any advertisement of 


the film displayed at the premises. 


. The Licensing Authority and any subordinate duly authorized by him in that behalf and 


any police officer deputed to keep order during any entertainment in the licensed 
premises shall at all times have free access to the said premises in order to see whether 


the conditions of the license are fulfilled. 


ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ನಪತ್ರ ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ಜಳ೫೧ 
ಶ್ರ ತು 


9. No fire work shall be used as an adjunct to a cinematograph exhibition. 
10. The licensee shall not, without the permission of the Licensing Authority, assign, sub- 


let or otherwise transfer the license or the licensed premises, not shall licensee without 
permission as aforesaid allow any other persons during the period of currency of the 
license, to exhibit films in the licensed premises. 

11. The licensee shall not exhibit any film in the licensed premises, in aid of any person, 
association or institutions, without the permission of the Licensing Authority. 

12. No cinematograph exhibition shall continue after such time not later than 1AM as may 
be fixed by the Licensing Authority. 

13. The licensee shall display the approved National Anthem in such manner and or such 
time as may be required by the Licensing Authority. 
[12-A, the licensee shall exhibit Kannada film for a period of not less than twelve 


weeks in a year. | 


14. The license shall be subject to cancellation or suspension for the breach of any of these 
conditions or of the special conditions specified on the reverse (or for violation of any 


law in force governing or regulating amusements and prescribing payment of taxes.) 


Dated the day of 20 


Seal District Magistrate 


By order and in the name of 
Govermor of Karnataka, 


(B.S. Nagarathnamma) 
Deputy Secretary to Government, 
Home Department 
(Crimes, Prisons & Cinema) 


PR-383 


೫೪೫೨ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ 


GOVERNMENT OF KARNATAKA 


Notification No: ENERGY/209/VSC/2021 Karnataka Government Secretariat 
Energy Department, Vikasa Soudha, 
Bengaluru, Dated:16-04-2022. 


NOTIFICATION 

The Government of Karnataka hereby notifies “Karnataka Renewable Energy 
Policy 2022-2027” as detailed in Annexure, to continue Karnataka State’s position as a 
preferred investment destination in the Renewable Energy sector and create an ecosystem 
for sustainable and green energy development in the State. This Policy is developed to 
facilitate Government of India in meeting the RE target of 500 GW by 2030 and to promote 
new initiatives and emerging energy technologies in the State. 

This policy shall come into force from the date of its issuance in the official gazette 


and will be valid for a period of five years or till a new Policy is announced. 


ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ೫೪೫೩ 


Annexure 


Energy Department 
Government of Karnataka 


Karnataka 
Renewable Energy 
Policy 2022-2027 


೫೪೫೪ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ 


1.Preamble 
1.1. Need for Karnataka Renewable Energy Policy 2022- 
2027 


Karnataka is among the leading States in Renewable Energy (RE) sector in the country with 
a RE generation capacity of about 15,392 MW (as on December, 2021).The State has 
achieved its stature through its effective Policy, programs and implementation. 

The State is endowed with RE potential which includes solar, wind, solar-wind hybrid, 
biomass, co-generation, Waste to energy, small hydro and other renewable energies that 
makes Karnataka a favorable destination for RE investments in India. Karnataka has about 
1,55,074 MW of estimated RE potential, making it one of the country’s top five renewable 
rich States. 

Karnataka is the first southern State in India to notify “Karnataka Renewable Energy Policy 
2009-14” in 2009 to harness green, clean renewable energy sources for environmental 
benefits and energy security. The Policy initiatives have enabled the State to achieve the 
capacity addition of 2,014 MW during the 5 years of Policy period. Further, to harness the 
potential of solar resources in the State, Government of Karnataka had published Solar 
Policy vide GO no EN 61 NCE 2011 for the period 2011-2016, and subsequently the Policy 
had been amended and published as “Karnataka Solar Policy 2014-21” vide GO no EN 21 
VSC 2014 for the period 2014-2021.Karnataka Solar Policy 2014-21 had targeted for 
development of 6,000 MW solar capacity by 2021 and the State has surpassed the target 
with a solar installed capacity of 7,523 MW as ೦೧ Dec 2021. In order to further harness, the 
potential of RE in the State, the Karnataka Renewable Energy Policy 2022-2027 has been 
envisaged by the Government of Karnataka. 

As RE become cheaper generation source for electricity in India (especially solar and wind 
energy), efforts are being made to initiate gradual replacement of existing conventional 
power generation capacities with renewable power generation capacities. The key 
advantage of conventional power generation is high Plant Load Factor (PLF), firmness and 
flexibility in power supply. In order to have same attractiveness, RE sources shall have 
these three attributes and the Karnataka Renewable Energy Policy 2022-2027 may promote 
such RE projects like solar-wind hybrid with energy storage or any other renewable energy 
with storage system which shall provide high PLF, firmness and flexibility in supply. 

The recent demand for Round-the-Clock (RTC) supply, peak power supply, higher Capacity 
Utilization Factor (CUF), higher availability and bundling RE with thermal power for RTC 
supply gives an opportunity for Karnataka to encourage such RE projects in the State. 
Further, the falling trend of RE tariffs in the country gives an additional opportunity for 
Karnataka to develop further green energy projects in the State which shall help to have 
cost effective power supply in long term. In addition, the advancement of technologies (i.e. 
efficiency gain, performance improvements etc.,) in solar, wind, and energy storage coupled 
with declining cost of technologies; and the existence of demand for cost effective 
renewable energy in the country from other States lays a prospect for Karnataka to develop 
more RE projects. 

Keeping the RE potentials in the State and above opportunities into consideration, the 
Karnataka Renewable Energy Policy 2022-2027 aims at deepening the RE markets in the 
State and make Karnataka an attractive destination for investors in the RE sector. The focus 
of Karnataka Renewable Energy Policy 2022-2027 is to advance the RE market 
development in the State and facilitate Government of India in meeting the RE target of 175 
GW by the year 2022 or any other capacity targeted thereafter. 


ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ೫೪೫೫ 


1.2.Applicability of Karnataka Renewable Energy Policy 


a. 


b. 


C. 


2022-2027 


This Policy will be applicable to projects and programs relating to the focus markets 
as covered under provision 4 of this Policy. 


All Solar, Wind, Solar-Wind Hybrid, Energy Storage, Mini and Small-Hydro, Biomass, 
Co-generation, Waste to Energy projects and new initiatives/pilot projects established 
in the State of Karnataka during the Policy period shall be eligible for benefits under 
this Policy. 


Any individual or company or body corporate or association or society or body of 
individuals, whether incorporated or not shall be eligible for setting up RE projects, 
either for the purpose of captive use and/or for selling of electricity to the Distribution 
Licensee or Third Party including under the Renewable Energy Certificate (REC) 
mechanism subject to provisions of this Policy and in accordance with the Electricity 
Act 2003, as amended from time to time. 


This Policy supersedes all the earlier Solar and RE policies issued. This Policy will be 
applicable to all the RE projects sanctioned prior to the commencement of the Policy and 
those RE projects in the process of development i.e. if a project developer with Government 
Order (GO) issued prior to the commencement of this Policy applies for timeline extension or 
transfer, the applicable timelines, time extension fees and transfer fees shall be as per the 
provisions7.1 and 7.2 of this Policy. Similarly, those project applications which are submitted 
before the commencement date of this Policy, but receive GO on or after the 
commencement date of this Policy shall have the timelines, time extension fees, transfer 
fees and Performance Bank Guarantee as Stated in the provisions7.1 and 7.2 of this Policy. 
In case of any discrepancies between the provisions of this Policy and earlier Policies for the 
allotted projects, the Energy Department, Government of Karnataka shall examine it on case 
to case basis, and the decision of Government shall be final. 


1.3.Legislative Framework for Policy 


The legislative framework for this Policy includes the following provisions: 


a. 


C. 


The Electricity Act, 2003 ensures that the Electricity Regulatory Commissions and 
the Governments to take necessary steps to promote Renewable Energy; 


Section 61(h) of the Act provides that while specifying the terms and conditions of 
determination of tariff, State Regulatory Commissions shall be guided, inter-alia, by 
the promotion of cogeneration and generation of electricity from renewable sources 
of energy; 


The National Electricity Policy (NEP) and Tariff Policy notified by the Central 
Government under the provisions of section 3(1) of the Act have also addressed the 
issues of untapped potential of energy from non-conventional and renewable energy 
sources; and 


Section 86(1)(e) of the Act mandates State Electricity Regulatory Commissions 
(SERCs) to notify Renewable Purchase Obligations (RPOs), ensures RPO 
compliance and invoke penal provisions against defaulting entities. 


Orders/Regulations or any other dispensation issued by the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory 
Commission (KERC) from time to time shall be applicable to the provisions of this Policy 
including the Acts passed by Government of India. In case of any discrepancy between the 
provisions of this Policy, Orders/Regulations issued by the KERC will prevail. 


೫೪೫೬ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ 


2.Abbreviations and Definitions 


Unless the meaning is repugnant to the context, the following words shall have the 
meanings assigned to them. 
1. “ABT” means Availability Based Tariff; 


2. “Act” means The Electricity Act, 2003, including amendments thereto; 
3. “ALMM” means Approved List of Models and Manufacturers as per MNRE; 
4 


. “Biomass Projects” means project which utilizes biomass like bagasse, agro-based 
industrial residue, crop residues, wood produced through energy plantations, weeds, 
wood waste produced in industrial operations, etc for energy generation; 


5. “CEA” means Central Electricity Authority; 


6. “CERC” means Central Electricity Regulatory Commission, constituted under sub- 
section (1) of Section 76 of the Electricity Act, 2003; 


7. “CNG” means Compressed Natural Gas; 

8. “CPCB” means Central Pollution Control Board; 
9. “CSP” means Concentric Solar Power; 
10.“CTE” means Consent to Establish; 

11.“CTU” means Central Transmission Utility; 
12.“CUF” means Capacity Utilization Factor; 
13.“Procurer” means electricity distribution companies other than ESCOMs of Karnataka; 
14.“DPR’ means Detailed Project Report; 

15. 255” means Distribution Substation; 

16.“EHV” means Extra High Voltage; 

17.“ESaS” means Energy Storage as Services; 


18.“ESCOM” means Electricity Supply Company in the State such as BESCOM (Bangalore 
Electricity Supply Company Limited), MESCOM (Mangalore Electricity Supply Company 
Limited), HESCOM (Hubli Electricity Supply Company Limited), GESCOM (Gulbarga 
Electricity Supply Company Limited), and CESC (Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply 
Corporation Limited); 


19.“Energy Storage System or ESS” means the system(s) installed in addition to the RE 
power capacity as part of the Project, that can capture energy produced at one time for 
use at a later time; 


20.“EV” means Electric Vehicle; 
21.“GSDP” means Gross State Domestic Product; 
22.“GEC” means Green Energy Corridor; 


23. “GO” means Government Order; 


ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ೫೪೫೭ 


24. “601” means Government of India; 

25. “GoK” means Government of Karnataka; 
26. “GST” means Goods and Services Tax; 
27.“GW” means Giga Watt; 

28. “INR” means Indian Rupees; 


29.“INSTS” means Intra-State Transmission System using which the projects can sell 
energy to ESCOMs or open access consumers within the Karnataka; 


30.“ISTS” means Inter-State Transmission System using which the projects can sell energy 
to procurers or open access consumers outside the Karnataka; 


31.“KERC” means Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission 

32.“KPCL” means Karnataka Power Corporation Limited; 

33. “KPTCL” means Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Limited; 
34.“KREDL” means Karnataka Renewable Energy Development Limited; 
35.“KSPDCL’” means Karnataka Solar Power Development Corporation Limited; 
36. “KM” means Kilo Meter; 

37.“LTA” means Long-Term Access; 


38.“Mini and Small Hydro” means hydro power plants of 0.1 MW to 2 MW as Mini Hydro 
power plants, and hydro power plants of more than 2 MW and less than 25 MW as Small 
Hydro power plants; 


39.“MNRE” means Ministry of New & Renewable Energy, a Government of India Ministry 
responsible to develop and deploy new and renewable energy for supplementary energy 
requirement of the country; 


40.“MSW” means Municipal Solid Waste; 

41. “MW” means Megawatt; 

42.“MWac’” means Megawatt ac; 

43.“MWp” means Megawatt peak; 

44.“NEP” means National Electricity Policy; 
45.“NIWE” means National Institute of Wind Energy; 
46.“NOC’” means No Objection Certificate; 


47.“Open Access” means the non-discriminatory provision for the use of transmission lines 
or distribution system or associated facilities with such lines or system by any licensee or 
consumer or a person engaged in generation in accordance with the Regulations 
specified by the Appropriate Commission 


48.“P2P” means Peer-to-Peer; 


49.“Park developer” may be either any agency of State Government; or any agency of 
central Government; or Joint venture or Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) of State 


೫೪೫೮ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ 


Government agency and central Government agency; or private developer; or Public 
Private Partnership (PPP) of State Government agency and private developer. 


50.“PFR” means Pre-Feasibility Report; 

51.“PGCIL’” means Power Grid Corporation of India Limited; 

52.“PHS” means Pumped Hydro Storage; 

53.“PM-KUSUM” means Pradhan Mantri Kisan Urja Suraksha evam Utthan Mahabhiyan; 
54.“PLF” means Plant Load Factor; 


55. “Project Developer” means a person who develops and /or maintain Renewable Energy 
projects and also creates and/or maintain common infrastructure facilities including 
required power systems; 


56. “Policy” meansKarnataka Renewable Energy Policy 2022-2027; 
57.“PPA” means Power Purchase Agreement; 

58.“PPP” means Public Private Partnership; 

59.“PV” Photovoltaic; 

60. “R&D” means Research and Development; 

61.“RE” means Renewable Energy; 


62.“RE Projects” means a project generating electrical energy from Renewable energy 
sources as defined by MNRE, including, but not limited to Solar PV Power Project or 
Wind Power Project or Hybrid Power Projects or Small Hydro Power project or biomass, 
biofuel, urban or municipal waste and other such sources as approved by MNRE 
thereof, with or without Energy Storage System (ESS). 


63. “RE Certificate” means Renewable Energy Certificate; 

64.“RLMM” means Revised List of Models and Manufacturers; 

65. “RPO” means Renewable Purchase Obligation; 

66.“RT&C” means Rights, Tenancy & Crops; 

67.“RTC” means Round-the-Clock; 

68.“SATAT” means Sustainable Alternative Toward Affordable Transportation; 
69.“SECI” means Solar Energy Corporation of India Ltd; 

70.“SERC” means State Electricity Regulatory Commission; 


71.“SLAC” means StateLevel Allotment Committee constituted under the provision of this 
Policy; 


72.“SLDC” means State Load Despatch Centre; 
73.“SPV” means Special Purpose Vehicle; 
74. “State” means State of Karnataka; 


75.“STU” means State Transmission Utility; 


ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ೫೪೫೯ 


76.“ULB” means Urban Local Body; 
77.“UMREPP” means Ultra-Mega Renewable Energy Power Parks; 


78.Waste to Energy Project” means project which recovers energy in the form of Biogas or 
Bio-CNG or Power from Urban, Industrial, Agricultural Waste / Residues and Municipal 
Solid Waste. 


79. “Wind-Solar Hybrid Projects” means a deployment of a combination of solar and wind 
energy sources for generation of power fed into the grid through a common pooling 
station/evacuation system wherein the capacity of one resource is as per the National 
Wind-Solar Hybrid Policy 2018, No.238/78/2017-Wind, dated 14 May 2018, issued by 
Ministry of New & Renewable Energy (MNRE) and its amendments or as per the 
guidelines issued by MNRE for Hybrid Projects from time to time. 


80. “WRD” means Water Resource Department; 
81.“WRDO” means Water Resources Development Organization; 
82.“WTG’” means Wind Turbine Generator. 


The terms not defined above will have their usual meaning. 


3.Policy Overview 
3.1. Vision 


To continue Karnataka State’s position as a preferred investment destination in the RE 
sector and create an ecosystem for sustainable and green energy development in the State. 


3.2. Objectives 


Accordingly, the State Government introduces the “Karnataka Renewable Energy Policy 

2022-2027” with the following objectives: 

1. To facilitate development of 10 (Ten) GW of additional RE projects with or without energy 
storage systems in the State, including up to 1(One) GW of Rooftop solar PV projects; 

2. To attract investment in the RE sector and development of State economy; 

3. To tap RE potential in the State and use of available resources for development of RE 
projects for the purpose of meeting the RE demand within the State and exporting power 
outside Karnataka; 

4. To achieve the RPO target(s) as specified by the KERC from time to time; 

To develop Renewable Energy Parks including hybrid parks in the State; 

6. To encourage private sector participation in transmission network/Green Energy Corridor 
projects; 

7. To develop ecosystem for distributed generation through Solarization of agriculture feeders 
and pumps which can help deferment of transmission and distribution capacity addition and 
reduction in losses; 

8. To promote adaptation of electric vehicles and de-carbonize transportation in the State by 
encouraging use of cleaner renewable energy in the transportation sector; 

9. To promote energy storage projects in the State; 

10. To create energy storage market in the State to integrate more RE into the grid and offer grid 
support services such as peak reduction, curtailment management, contribution to reliability 
needs, transmission deferrals, intraday and seasonal variation management, and others; 


a 


೫೪೬೦ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ 


11. To promote development of wind-solar hybrid projects; 

12. To promote development of floating solar including hybridization of floating solar with existing 
hydro stations; 

13. To promote generation of energy through biomass, and waste-to-energy; and 

14. To promote new initiatives and emerging energy technologies in the State. 


3.3. Policy Period 


This Policy shall come into effect from the date of issuance and will be valid for a period of 
five years or till a new Policy is announced. 

This Policy will be evaluated on regular basis to assess its impact, and to ensure inclusion 
of any new RE market/guidelines of Government of India (Gol)/Government of Karnataka 
(Gok) that may evolve during the Policy period. 


4. Focus Markets 


To advance the development of RE markets and to stimulate the sustainable economic 
growth through green investments in the State, this Policy focuses on development of key 
markets in the State of Karnataka as listed below: 


ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ನಪತ್ರ ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ೫೪೬೧ 
ಜ್ರ a 


4.1. 


a. 


4.4. 


Green Energy Corridor 


Karnataka is the leading State in development of RE projects in India, and having the 
highest installed capacity of renewable energy i.e. about 15,392 MW (as on Dec 
2021) in the country. This positions Karnataka as leader in RE investments in the 
country. 


To attract more RE investments in the State, Karnataka is strengthening its 
transmission infrastructure and this Policy will focus on development of Green 
Energy Corridor for evacuation of large-scale RE projects. 


. Renewable Energy Parks 


Karnataka is home to one of the World’s largest solar parks “Pavagada Solar Park” 
with an operational capacity of 2,050 MW. The State has also hosted private solar 
farms to accommodate solar power projects. 


In November 2020, Ministry of New and Renewable Energy has come up with a 
concept note for development of wind park/wind solar hybrid park in selected 
renewable rich States of India including Karnataka. Objective of the concept note is 
to develop Wind—Solar Hybrid Power Parks with optimal utilization of land and 
transmission network. In the concept note, MNRE has identified sites for park 
development in Karnataka at Chitradurga, Davanagere and Ballary estimated to have 
a cumulative development potential of about 11,065 MW. 


To develop further RE parks including Ultra Mega Renewable Energy Power Parks 
(UMREPP) in Karnataka, this Policy focuses on development of solar parks or wind 
parks or hybrid RE parks within the State. 


. Solar Energy Projects 


Karnataka is the leading State in installation of solar energy capacity in the country. 
As on December 2021, the installed capacity of solar energy in the State is about 
7,523 MW which is the highest among renewable rich States in India. 


To tap the existing solar energy opportunities in the State and to cater to the demand 
of low-cost solar energy within the country, this Policy will focus on promotion and 
development of following solar markets in the State: 


1. Grid connected MW scale solar projects; 
2. Rooftop Solar PV Projects; 

3. Distributed Solar Generation; 

4 


. Ground mount and Rooftop Solar PV Projects for charging the Electric 
Vehicles (EVs) and Battery Swapping Stations; and 


5. Floating Solar Projects 
Wind Energy Projects 


As on December 2021, the installed capacity of wind energy in the State is about 
5,095 MW. 


೫೪೬೨ 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ 


0. 


4.5. 


4.6. 


4.7. 


To tap the existing wind energy opportunities in the State and to cater to the demand 
of low-cost wind energy within the country, this Policy will focus on development of 
wind markets viz., new wind energy projects as well as Repowering of existing wind 


projects. 
Solar-Wind Hybrid Energy Projects 


Karnataka is a renewable rich State with availability of both solar and wind resources. 
Hybridization of solar and wind energy will complement each other in meeting the 
demand and it also addresses the intra-day and seasonal generation variation 
resulting in higher availability. 


To tap the existing solar-wind hybrid energy opportunities in the State and to cater to 
the demand of low cost, higher availability renewable energy, this Policy will focus on 
development of solar-wind hybrid markets like hybridization of existing projects and 


developing new hybrid projects in the State. 


Energy Storage Projects for Renewable Energy 


Karnataka has a renewable penetration of about 50% in terms of installed capacity 
and about 30% in terms of energy consumption (as on December 2021). In order to 
accommodate more RE for optimal utilisation, the energy storage system is a key 


requirement. 


This Policy will focus on development of energy storage market including pumped 
hydro storage in the State with the objective of integrating more RE in to the grid 
which can offer grid support services such as peak reduction, curtailment 
management, contribution to reliability needs, managing intraday variation and 
seasonal variation and others and also, to meet the increasing power demand of the 


State through renewable energy. 
Biomass, Co-generation and Waste to Energy Projects 


Karnataka is one of the leading States in development of biomass projects in India, 
as the State has strong agricultural activities with vast biomass resources. The State 
has installed about 139 MW biomass projects and 1,731 MW of co-generation 
projects as on December 2021. The State has approved various Waste-to-Energy 


projects using Municipal Solid Waste (MSW) and some of them are in the pipeline. 


ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ೫೪೬೩ 


0. 


4.8. 


To tap the existing biomass and waste to energy market opportunities, this Policy will 


continue to focus on development of following markets in the State: 
1. New biomass projects; 
2. New co-generation projects; and 


3. New waste to energy projects. 
Mini and Small-Hydro Projects 


Karnataka is endowed with hydro power potential which is estimated to be about 
3,100 MW out of which the State has installed about 903 MW of small hydro capacity 


as on December 2021. 


To tap the existing mini and small-hydro market opportunities, this Policy will 


continue to focus on development of mini and small-hydro markets in the State. 


4.9.New Initiatives/Pilot Projects/Research and Development 


a. 


(R&D) 


The Government of Karnataka is always a forerunner in evaluating and adapting new 
RE markets in the country. This Policy will continue to support new technologies such 
as off-shore wind energy, tidal and wave energy, rooftop aero turbine with solar, 
highway’s aero turbine, hydrogen and fuel cells, Bio-Compressed Natural Gas, 
Concentrated Solar Power and other markets on case-to-case basis to evaluate the 
feasibility. 


To encourage solar thermal market, solar steam generating systems at institutions 
and industries. Solar water pumps, water purification systems, solar application to 
cottage industries shall be priority areas. To conserve electricity in peak hours solar 
water heaters, solar lighting systems, solar hoardings etc shall be encouraged in 


domestic, commercial and industrial applications. 


State Government shall endeavour Research and Development activities for 


advancement of RE in the State. 


೫೪೬೪ 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ 


5.Policy Measures 


5.1. Incentives to all Focus Markets 


The incentives that shall be provided by the Government of Karnataka for the markets 
focuses under this Policy are 
a. Energy Sale 


ie 


The RE project developers can sell the energy to ESCOMs/Procurers, intermediaries or 
any consumer under open access (captive/group captive and third party sale including 
bulk consumers, through Power Exchanges) both within Karnataka and/or outside the 
State under this Policy to promote Intra State Transmission System and Inter State 
Transmission System category projects, as per the provision of the Electricity Act, 2003 
and in accordance with guidelines issued by the CERC/KERC from time to time. The RE 
project developer may also set up projects under the Renewable Energy Certificate 
mechanism in accordance with CERC (Terms and Conditions for Recognition and 
Issuance of Renewable Energy Certificate for Renewable Energy Generation) 
Regulations, 2010, and as amended from time to time. 

The renewable obligated entities are allowed to set up RE projects to fulfill their Solar and 
Non-Solar Renewable Purchase Obligation (RPO) requirements. 


b. Land 


1. 


It shall be the responsibility of the RE project developer to acquire/lease the land required 
for the project development. 


2. The process of land procurement and conversion for RE projects shall be as 


below: 


a. Where permission to purchase agriculture land under section109 of 
Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961 is required, the process of 
procurement and conversion of land shall be as per the State Industrial 
Policy and its amendments issued from time to time and as per the 
Karnataka Land Reforms (Amendment) Act, 2020, DPAL 08 SHASANA 
2020, dated 27.04.2020 and its amendments from time to time. 


b. Once the project is approved/issued NOC by SLAC/Energy Department, 
Government of Karnataka, and after following the procedures as indicated 
in the Revenue Department circulars No. RD 01 LRM 2016 dated 
03.02.2016 and No. RD/LGP/2015 dated 01.12.2015, the land required for 
the projects will be considered deemed converted. 


c. The project developer shall not require obtaining project approval 
(excluding applicable statutory approvals) from any other Government 
departments. 


ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ೫೪೬೫ 


RE projects developers will be allowed to start the project execution on filing of 
application for conversion of agriculture land, along with the payment of specified 
fees. 

Allocation of land to solar and wind power projects shall be as per clause 6.2 of 
this Policy 

The wind projects, solar-wind hybrid projects/parks, and mini and small hydro 
projects shall be approved by the State Level Allotment Committee chaired by the 
Additional Chief Secretary/Principal Secretary to Government, Energy 
Department 

The other RE projects (i.e. solar projects/parks, and energy storage projects, 
biomass, co-generation and waste-to-energy) shall be approved by the Energy 
Department, Government of Karnataka. 

All RE projects are proposed to be treated as manufacturing industry and they are 
eligible for incentives and concessions, as applicable to manufacturing industry 
mentioned in the State Industrial Policy and its amendments from time to time, 
except the investment promotion subsidies. 


c. Connectivity 


c.1. Projects connected to STU 


1. 


2. 


3. 


Project developer is allowed to connect the RE project with State Transmission Utility 
(STU) for 17575 category projects, subject to the evacuation feasibility. 

The project developer shall enter into the Connectivity Agreement with KPTCL (as per 
the Standard Format approved by KERC). 

Project developer shall be responsible for connecting the generation station to the 
nearest grid sub-station and connect radially with a dedicated transmission line, in 
accordance with applicable CEA/CERC/KERC Regulations and its amendments issued 
from time to time. 

Time bound clearance for transmission evacuation approval from KPTCL will be provided 
within 60 days from the date of receipt of requisite documents for registration. In case, 
ESCOM’s network is utilized for evacuation, concerned ESCOMs shall provide the 
evacuation approval within 45 days from the date of receipt of requisite documents for 
registration. 

Supervision charges for RE projects shall be as per KPTCL notifications issued from time 
to time. 

For use of InSTS by the project developer, the applicable transmission charges and 
losses, as determined by KERC in its tariff orders issued from time to time shall be 
applicable for all RE sources transmitting electricity using the network of State 
transmission licensee. 

Wheeling, Banking, Cross Subsidy Surcharge and any other applicable open access 
charges shall be as determined by KERC from time to time. 

Applicability of electricity duty to the RE projects developed under this Policy shall be as 
per the direction of Government of Karnataka issued from time to time. 

In case of drawl of reactive power for the project, necessary charges shall be payable at 
the rate prescribed by the KERC. 


. The project developers shall comply with the KERC/CERC Regulations on Forecasting, 


Scheduling, and Deviation Settlement, as applicable and are responsible for all liabilities 
related to Long-Term Access (LTA), Medium-Term Access (MTA) and Short Term 
Access (STA), and connectivity. 


೫೪೬೬ 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ 


c.2. Projects connected to CTU 


1. 


Project developer is allowed to connect the RE project with Central Transmission Utility 
for ISTS category projects and the procedure for grant of connectivity with ISTS shall be 
as per relevant CERC Regulations and its amendments issued from time to time. 

For use of ISTS by the project developer, the applicable transmission charges and 
losses, as determined by CERC in its tariff orders issued from time to time shall be 
applicable for all RE sources transmitting electricity using the network of central 
transmission licensee. 

No banking facility is extended for RE projects implemented under ISTS category. 

In case of drawl of reactive power for the project, necessary charges shall be payable at 
the rate prescribed by the CERC/KERC. 

The project developers shall comply with CERC Regulations on Forecasting, Scheduling, 
and Deviation Settlement, as applicable and are responsible for all liabilities related to 
Long-Term Access, Medium-Term Access and Short Term Access and connectivity. 

The project developers shall follow the procedure laid down by central agencies related 
to connectivity with CTU network. All liabilities on account of connecting the project to 
CTU shall be borne by the project developer. 


c.3. Projects connected to CTU through STU 


1. 


To make use of the existing Intra-State evacuation infrastructure, the project developers 
are allowed to connect with nearest available STU substation for connecting with CTU 
under ISTS category projects subject to technical feasibility as determined by KPTCL. 
The project developer(s) shall bear the entire cost of the existing or new external 
evacuation infrastructure including connecting line, grid substations and upstream 
network up to the CTU. The construction of new such network infrastructure shall be 
carried out by the developer at his cost under the supervision of KPTCL, and the assets 
other than the pooling substation of RE project and the Extra High Voltage (EHV) line 
connecting it radially to the KPTCL substation, shall be handed over to KPTCL after the 
commissioning of the RE project. The new network augmentation required for this 
purpose shall be determined by KPTCL. Further, developers opting for this option shall 
pay the O&M charges to KPTCL as per KERC/CERC orders issued from time to time 
only for those assets handed over to KPTCL. The developers shall also bear the 
transmission charges and losses. 

The project developers shall follow the procedure laid down by central agencies. All 
liabilities on account of connecting to CTU shall be borne by the project developer. 

In case the project developer uses InSTS to bring RE power at ISTS point, the project 
developer shall do the same as per KPTCL specifications duly complying with 
CEA/CERC/KERC Regulations and its amendments issued from time to time. 


d. Additional Incentives as per Industrial Policy 


All RE projects of both InSTS and ISTS shall be eligible for incentives as per the State 
Industrial Policy and its amendments issued from time to time, except the investment 
promotion subsidies. 


e. Project Allotment 


1. 


2. 


The State will facilitate the project allocation through application process and Karnataka 
Renewable Energy Development Limited shall be the nodal agency for processing such 
applications. 

The allocation of solar projects/parks, and energy storage projects shall be approved by 
Energy Department, Government of Karnataka on recommendation of KREDL. 


ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ೫೪೬೭ 


The allocation of wind projects, solar-wind hybrid projects/parks, and mini and small 
hydro projects shall be approved by SLAC on recommendation of KREDL. 

In case of biomass, co-generation and waste-to-energy projects, the NOC shall be issued 
by Energy Department, Government of Karnataka on recommendation of KREDL. 
Project/Park developer shall submit the tentative land documents and topo sheet along 
with the application. 

Distribution Licensees (ESCOMs) shall be the nodal agency for implementation of Solar 
Roof top projects. 


f. Other Government Schemes 


ls 


2. 


The Government of Karnataka will promote RE projects/parks as per the schemes of the 
State Government/Central Government issued from time to time. 

Any applicable Government schemes (State and Central) can be explored by the RE 
project/park developer for the purpose of project development under this Policy. 

The Government of India incentives under MNRE RE schemes (or any others), such as 
Central Financial Assistance, concessional custom duty on specified items and others as 
applicable shall be extended to the project developer under this Policy. 

The State shall continue to support implementation of RE programs and schemes of the 
MNRE. 


g. Clearances 


1. 


4. 


It shall be the responsibility of the RE project developer to obtain various statutory 
clearances required for the project development. KREDL shall facilitate project 
developer in obtaining the consents, clearances, and permits required for the RE 
projects, by providing letters of recommendation to the concerned authorities, as 
may be requested by the project developer. KREDL shall not be responsible for 
delays in obtaining the consents, clearances, and permits required for the RE 
projects. 


NOC/Consent to establish RE projects shall be governed as per the Central 
Pollution Control Board/Karnataka State Pollution Control Board guidelines and/or 
Notifications issued from time to time. 


Solar PV modules shall comply with Approved List of Models and Manufacturers 
as per MNRE or as per the minimum technical specifications for Solar PV plant as 
set out by the MNRE guidelines issued from time to time. 


Wind Turbine Generator models shall comply with Revised List of Models and 
Manufacturers as per the MNRE directions issued from time to time. 


h. Energy Storage 


1. 


RE project is allowed to develop with or without energy storage system under this 
Policy as per the guidelines issued by the Gol/GoK from time to time. 


i. Metering and Connectivity 


1: 


2. 


For interconnection with the grid and metering, the project developer shall abide 
by applicable Grid Code, Grid Connectivity Standards, and Regulations on 
Communication System for transmission of electricity and other Regulations 
issued by the KERC/CERC and CEA from time to time. 


The interface metering point shall be the point of connectivity at the STU 
Substation. 


೫೪೬೮ 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ 


5.2. Additional Policy Measures Specific to Focus 
Markets 


The Policy measures specific to the focus markets in addition to the incentives areas below: 


5.2.1 Green Energy Corridor 


a. 


Promotion of Green Energy Corridor 

The GEC project aims at synchronizing electricity produced from renewable 
sources, such as solar, wind and others, with conventional energy sources in the 
grid. The GEC project is being implemented by respective State Transmission 
Utility allocating the work through competitive bidding process. 


b. Support for Green Energy Corridor 


1. The Government of Karnataka will encourage private sector investments and/or 
Public Private Partnership under this Policy for developing Renewable Energy 
parks. The dedicated transmission line from RE Generator to STU Substation 
shall be constructed by the project developer in accordance with provisions under 
Section-10 of the Electricity Act, 2003. 


2. The Government of Karnataka will promote development of GEC projects as per 
the guidelines or schemes of State Government/Central Government issued from 
time to time. 


5.2.2. Renewable Energy Parks, and Projects Developed within 
the Park 


a. 


Promotion of Renewable Energy Park 
This Policy aims to promote development of RE Parks with or without storage in 
the State which includes solar parks and/or wind parks and/or hybrid parks (i.e. 
Solar-Wind or any other renewables). 
Park Size 
The minimum capacity of each park shall be 25 MW and the maximum park 
capacity shall be as per the guidelines or schemes of MNRE as issued from time 
to time. 
Park Developer 
The park developer may be either of the following: 
1. Any agency of State Government; 
Any agency of Central Government; 
Joint venture or Special Purpose Vehicle of (1) and (2); 
Private developer; and 
Public Private Partnership of (1) and (4) 


OP ON 


In case of (1) to (3) above, the Government of Karnataka shall designate the 
Renewable Energy Park developer on nomination basis which may be Karnataka 
Solar Power Development Corporation Limited or any other State government 
agency. While in case of (4) and (5) above, the Government of Karnataka shall 
select the private developer through transparent competitive bidding, for which 
the State Government would develop transparent guidelines in line with the 


ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ೫೪೬೯ 


Central Government guidelines, if any, consisting of financial and technical 
aspects for selection of private park developer. 

The Government of Karnataka will promote development of RE Parks under PPP 
model with Private sector developers by investing up to 50% equity or any other 
percentage of equity participation as decided by the State Government. The cost 
of land allotted and any other infrastructure including transmission system by the 
State Government can be part of its equity participation under PPP model. 

The Government of Karnataka or any other State agency designated by it will 
promote development of Ultra Mega Renewable Energy Power Parks on its own 
or through joint venture with Central Public Sector Undertakings. 

Apart from the above, the private park developers are free to setup the parks for 
development of RE projects under open access route (captive/group captive/ third 
party sale) for sale of energy within and outside the State. Such parks shall not be 
eligible to avail CFA under MNRE park schemes. 


d. Projects within Renewable Energy Park 


e. 


1. The projects developed within the RE Park can sell energy to 
ESCOMs/Procurers, intermediaries like SECI or any consumer under open 
access (captive/group captive and third party sale including bulk 
consumers) both within Karnataka and/or outside the State to promote 
1೧7575 and ISTS category projects. 

2. Hybrid Projects can be Wind-Solar or any other RE sources with or without 
energy storage system. 

3. The rated capacity of one resource (wind or solar) shall be as per the 
National Wind-Solar Hybrid Policy 2018, No.238/78/2017-Wind, dated 14 
May 2018, issued by the MNRE or as per the guidelines issued by MNRE 
for Hybrid Projects from time to time. 


Other Supports Specific to Renewable Energy Park Development 


1. The Government of Karnataka will promote Renewable Energy Parks as 
per the guidelines or prevailing schemes of State Government/Central 
Government including MNRE schemes for development of Solar Parks and 
Ultra Mega Solar Power Projects and MNRE scheme on Wind-Solar Hybrid 
Parks and its amendments. 

2. In case of development of Renewable Energy Parks by Private developer 
for open access projects, the State shall facilitate the park allocation 
through application process. 


5.2.3. Solar Energy Projects 


a. 


Promotion of Solar Energy Projects 
This Policy aims to promote the Solar Energy Projects including: 

1. MW scale grid connected projects for 175715 category projects i.e., sale of 

energy to ESCOMs and/or open access consumers within Karnataka; 

2. MW scale grid connected projects for ISTS category projects i.e., sale of 
energy to Procurer’s and/or open access consumers outside Karnataka; 
Rooftop Solar PV projects; 

Distributed Generation i.e., Solarization of agriculture feeders and pumps; 
Ground mount and Rooftop Solar PV projects for charging Electric 
Vehicles and Battery Swapping Stations; and 


ON OO 


೫೪೭೦ 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ 


6. 


Floating Solar Projects. 


b. Supports for Promotion of MW Scale Projects 


i: 


Solar projects having a minimum capacity of 1 MWac shall be considered 
as MW scale grid connected solar project under this Policy. In the case of 
captive/group captive projects, there shall be no minimum capacity limit for 
allotment of projects. 

Project developer can install the MW scale solar projects either on land or 
rooftop or floating area or canal top or combination of either of the above, 
subject to the evacuation feasibility. In the case of solar projects 
implemented on canal top, the incentives shall be as per applicable MNRE 
schemes or programs. 


b.1. Solar Projects for Sale of Energy within Karnataka 


le 


Selection of projects under InSTS category (excluding open access projects) shall 
be through a competitive bidding process, as per the requirement of ESCOMs in 
the State to fulfill RPO target fixed by the KERC or any requirements beyond 
RPO target subject to the approval of the KERC. 

Project developer shall be allowed to develop the MW scale solar projects 
through open access route under this Policy for sale of energy within the 
State subject to evacuation feasibility. 


b.2. Solar Projects Implemented within the Premises 


di: 


ಗ 


Project developer is allowed to setup the ೦೫-06 solar project within the 
same premises for self-consumption duly informing the ESCOMs. 

In case, the solar PV project is setup within the premises of a consumer 
which is connected to the grid interface of ESCOMs or KPTCL, he shall 
pay the grid support charges and other applicable charges as determined 
by the KERC from time to time. However, the project developer is 
exempted from payment of such charges, if the project within the premises 
is not connected to the grid interface. 

Net-metering facility shall not be applicable for solar projects installed 
within the premises under this category which are connected to the grid 
interface of ESCOMs or KPTCL. 

Any inadvertent injection of energy into the grid from the project setup 
within the premises which is connected to the grid interface shall not be 
compensated/paid by the ESCOMs/KPTCL. 

For off-grid solar projects, the project developer shall obtain the safety 
approval from the Department of Electrical Inspectorate, as per the Orders 
issued by the Government of Karnataka from time to time. 


b.3. Solar Projects for Sale of Energy outside Karnataka 


sb 


Selection of projects under ISTS category shall be through a competitive 
bidding process as conducted by intermediaries such as SECI, NTPC and 
others. 

Project developer can also develop the MW scale projects under open 
access route under this Policy for sale of energy outside the Karnataka in 


ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ೫೪೩೧ 


accordance with guidelines issued by appropriate authorities from time to 
time. 


c. Supports for Promotion of Rooftop Solar PV Projects 


1. 


2 


It is targeted to achieve up to 1,000 MW of grid connected Rooftop Solar 
PV projects under this Policy. 

Implementation of grid connected rooftop solar PV projects shall be 
administered by respective ESCOMs (including registration, approval, 
metering protocols, safety protocols, and standards). 

The project developer shall obtain the safety approval from the Department 
of Electrical Inspectorate for rooftop solar PV projects, as per the Orders 
issued by the Government of Karnataka from time to time. 

The Government of Karnataka will support implementation of Rooftop 
Solar PV projects as per the prevailing MNRE scheme of “Grid Connected 
Solar Rooftop Programme” and its amendments or any other forthcoming 
programs. 

The Government of India incentives under MNRE schemes (or any others) 
such as Central Financial Assistance, concessional custom duty on 
specified items and others shall be extended to the project developer 
under this Policy. 


c.1.Grid connected Rooftop solar PV projects under Net Metering and 
Gross Metering 


1. 


The Government of Karnataka shall promote grid connected rooftop solar 
PV projects on public buildings, domestic buildings, commercial and 
industrial establishments and others through net metering/gross metering 
arrangements as per the KERC (Implementation of Solar Rooftop 
Photovoltaic Plants) Regulations, 2016 and its amendments/Tariff 
Orders/Guidelines/Orders issued from time to time. 


c.2.Peer-to-Peer (P2P) Trading of Rooftop Solar PV Energy 


4. 


Peer-to-peer energy (P2P) trading is the buying and selling of rooftop solar 
PV energy between two or more grid-connected parties in a secured and 
reliable way with proper accounting and billing mechanism implemented 
with the help of Block chain technology. Any excess energy from rooftop 
solar PV can be transferred and sold to other consumers via a secure 
platform. 


The Government of Karnataka will promote Peer-to-Peer (P2P) trading of 
Rooftop Solar PV energy and pilot project(s) shall be promoted. The 
implementation of P2P model shall be as per the guidelines and 
Regulatory framework as notified by the KERC from time to time. 


c.3.Off-Grid Rooftop Solar PV System 


1. 


Solar projects installed on the consumers’ rooftops for their captive use 
isolated from the grid with or without energy storage system shall be 
treated as standalone and off-grid projects. 


೫೪೭೨ 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ 


2. 


The Government of Karnataka will promote off-grid rooftop Solar PV Plant 
in this Policy subject to safety approval from the Department of Electrical 
Inspectorate, as per the Orders issued by the Government of Karnataka 
from time to time. 

The project developer shall adhere to the safety codes and standards for 
safe operation of the off-grid system. 


d. Support for Promotion of Distributed Solar Generation (i.e., Agriculture 
Feeder and Pump sets Solarization) 


The Government of Karnataka will promote Solarization of existing grid 
connected Irrigation pumps through feeder Solarization i.e., connecting the 
solar project at Substation bus [Subject to the evacuation feasibility], and 
Solarization of grid connected Irrigation pumps as per the guidelines or 
prevailing schemes of the State Government/Central Government including 
PM-KUSUM or any other forthcoming schemes/programs. 


e. Supports for Promotion of Floating Solar Projects 


3 


The Government of Karnataka will promote development of floating solar 
on existing reservoirs/dams of hydro stations or any other water bodies 
including reservoirs and lakes. 

The State will allocate the water body on long term lease/rental basis for 
development of projects under InSTS and ISTS programs for sale of 
energy to ESCOMs/Procurers or licensed intermediaries like SECI or 
Urban Local Bodies by utilization of the lake water bodies. 

The project developer is free to make connectivity and open access 
applications with CTU subject to the consent from CTU, KPTCL, Water 
Resource Department and Karnataka Lake Conservation and 
Development Authority (as applicable). 

Floating Solar Projects can be developed with or without energy storage 
system. 

All components of the Floating Solar PV plant shall be in accordance with 
technical specifications given in relevant IS/ IEC Standards. The design 
and commissioning shall be as per latest IS/ IEC/ BIS standards and the 
project shall not cause any environmental concerns to the water bodies. 
The guidelines for implementation of floating solar projects will be notified 
by the Government of Karnataka. 


f. Supports for Promotion of Solar Energy for Charging the Electric Vehicles 
and Battery Swapping Stations 


1. 


2. 


The Government of Karnataka will promote use of RE for charging the 
electric vehicles and battery swapping stations with the aim of greening the 
transportation sector. 

The charging station/Battery swapping station service providers may set up 
RE generation plants within their premises for captive use and may also 


ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ೫೪೭೩ 


draw renewable power through open access subject to fulfillment of 
requirements under open access Regulations. 

Ground mount and Rooftop Solar PV Plants within the same premises can 
be used for supplying the power to the EV Charging stations/Battery 
swapping stations. For such charging stations, a rebate on the applicable 
tariff may be evaluated with the consent of the KERC. 

RE for charging the EVs/Battery swapping stations can be with or without 
energy storage. 


5.2.4. Wind Energy Projects 


a. Promotion of Wind Energy Projects 
This Policy aims to promote the Wind Energy Projects including: 


1. 
2. 


New wind energy projects; and 
Repowering of existing wind energy projects. 


b. Additional Supports for Wind Energy Projects 
b.1. New Wind Projects for Sale of Energy within Karnataka 


1. 


Selection of projects under InSTS category shall be through a competitive bidding 
process, as per the requirement of ESCOMs in the State to fulfill Renewable 
Purchase Obligation (RPO) target fixed by the KERC or any requirements beyond 
the RPO target subject to the approval of the KERC. 

Project developer can develop projects under open access route under this Policy 
for sale of energy inside Karnataka in accordance with relevant guidelines issued 
from time to time. 


b.2.New Wind Projects for Sale of Energy outside Karnataka 


1. 


2. 


Selection of projects under ISTS category shall be through a competitive bidding 
process conducted by intermediaries such as SECI, NTPC and others. 

Project developer can also develop projects under open access route under this 
Policy for sale of energy outside the Karnataka in accordance with relevant 
guidelines issued from time to time. 


b.3. Repowering of Existing Wind Energy Projects 


1. 


The Government of Karnataka will promote repowering of existing wind turbines 
which have completed at least 10 years in operation. Repowering shall comply 
with the Policy and guidelines of MNRE for repowering the wind power projects 
issued from time to time duly informing the ESCOMs i.e., PPA holders. 

In the case of power being procured by State ESCOMs through PPA, the power 
generated corresponding to average of last three years’ generation prior to 
repowering would continue to be procured on the terms of PPA in-force, as 
approved by the KERC and remaining additional generation may be purchased by 
ESCOMs as per their requirements at a tariff discovered through competitive 
bidding, subject to the approval of KERC. 

The repowered wind projects shall also be allowed to use the additional power for 
captive/group captive or third party sale within and/or outside the State. 

For repowering of wind projects, the pre-feasibility for evacuation of repowered 
energy through STU or CTU (as the case may be) shall be assessed by the 
project developer. 


೫೪೭೪ 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ 


ನು! 


Solar-Wind Hybrid Energy Projects 


a. 


Promotion of Solar-Wind Hybrid Energy Projects 


1. Hybrid projects can be Wind-Solar energy with or without energy storage system. 

2. The rated capacity of one resource (wind or solar) shall be as per the National 
Wind-Solar Hybrid Policy 2018, vide No.238/78/2017-Wind, dated 14 May 2018, 
issued by the Ministry of New & Renewable Energy and its amendments or as per 
the guidelines issued by MNRE for Hybrid Projects. Other provisions as per the 
National Wind-Solar Hybrid Policy 2018remain applicable. 

3. This Policy is applicable for hybridization of existing or under construction Wind or 
Solar projects into hybrid projects and also for new Wind-Solar Hybrid power 
generation projects. 


b. Additional Supports for Solar-Wind Hybrid Energy Projects 


b.1.Regulations 

1. The applicable open access charges for solar-wind hybrid projects in the State 
shall be as per the relevant Regulations specified by the KERC from time to time. 
In the case of ISTS category projects, the applicable open access charges shall 
be as per the relevant Regulations specified by the CERC from time to time. 


b.2. Hybridization of Existing Solar or Wind Energy Projects 

1. In case of hybridization of existing projects by either addition of wind or solar 
energy, the additional generation from such hybrid projects may be purchased by 
ESCOMs as per their requirements at a tariff discovered through competitive 
bidding, subject to the approval of the KERC. 

2. The additional generated energy from existing projects after hybridization is 
allowed to sell under captive/group captive or third party route within and/or 
outside the State as per relevant Regulations issued from time to time. 

3. For hybridization of existing projects, the pre-feasibility for evacuation of hybrid 
power through STU shall be obtained by the project developer. 

4. Forecasting and scheduling shall be as per the CERC/KERC Regulations as 
appropriate. 


5.2.5. Energy Storage Projects for Renewable Energy 


a. 


Promotion of Energy Storage Projects 


This Policy will focus on development of energy storage market including pumped 
hydro in the State with the objective of integrating more RE in to the grid which 
can offer grid services such as grid optimization, peak reduction, curtailment 
management, contribution to reliability needs, managing intraday variation and 
seasonal variations and others, and also to meet the increasing power demand of 
the State through RE. 


Energy storage can play an important role in grid integration and balancing of 
variable generation sources. By increasing the system’s overall flexibility, it can 
improve power quality, reduce peak demand, enhance capacity of distribution / 
transmission grids, avoid/reduce deviation penalties etc. Use of energy storage 
systems by residential, commercial or industrial consumers, in conjunction with 
renewable energy has potential to improve power quality and reliability for such 


ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ೫೪೭೫ 


consumers. This would also allow for minimization of diesel consumption from 
back-up power applications. 


b. Additional Supports for Energy Storage Projects 


b.1.Energy Storage as Services 

1. Energy storage service providers can tie-up with RE developers or can utilize any 
energy sources (i.e. energy exchange etc.,) for storing the energy and the stored 
energy can be sold to ESCOMs/Procurers/ Open Access consumers within 
Karnataka and outside Karnataka under InSTS and ISTS program. 


b.2.Location of Energy Storage Projects 

1. Energy storage projects can be either co-located with RE projects (i.e., energy 
source) or it can be located near the load centers (i.e., sub-station and/or 
consumers). 


3.Energy Storage Regulations 
The applicable open access charges for use of energy from the energy storage 
services in the State shall be as per the relevant Regulations specified by the 
KERC from time to time. In case of ISTS category projects, the applicable open 
access charges shall be as per the relevant Regulations specified by the CERC 
from time to time. 


b.4.Use of Existing and New Renewable Energy Assets for Energy 

Storage 

1. Existing and new RE projects can use energy storage system to manage 
variations in generation and offer necessary grid support services/ancillary 
services to SLDC/ESCOMs as per their requirements. In the case of existing 
projects, the use of energy storage system to offer grid support services/ancillary 
services shall be subject to the consent from the concerned ESCOMs and 
approval of PPA by the KERC. 

2. RE projects (existing and new) developed under captive/group captive and third 
party sale within the State may use energy storage system to store the excess 
generation and set off appropriately. The guidelines for use of energy storage 
system in RE captive/group captive and third party sale projects will be issued by 
the Government of Karnataka. 


b.5.Utilization of Existing Transmission Capacity 

1. For the purpose of optimal utilization of existing transmission capacity within the 
State, locations such as retiring thermal power stations and existing Renewable 
Energy Parks will be evaluated for developing energy storage projects. 


b.6.Pumped Hydro Storage Projects 
1. The Government of Karnataka will encourage development of Pumped Hydro 
Storage Projects within the State including private investments in PHS projects. 


2. Any applicable Government schemes can be explored by energy storage 
project developers for the purpose of project development. 


೫೪೭೬ 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ 


5.2.6. Biomass Projects 


a. 


Promotion of Biomass Projects 
This Policy will promote generation of energy through Biomass to enable 
development of Bio-energy based projects in the State. 


Additional Support for Biomass Projects 


1. Procurement of energy from biomass projects shall be based on the tariff 
discovered through competitive bidding process as per the requirement of 
ESCOMs, subject to the approval of the KERC. 

2. Developer of biomass project is allowed to use the power for captive/group 
captive or third party sale within and outside the State. 

3. The Government of Karnataka will promote biomass projects as per the 
guidelines or prevailing schemes of State Government/Central Government 
including the MNRE’s schemes such as “Programme on Energy from Urban, 
Industrial, Agricultural Wastes/Residues and Municipal Solid Waste” or any other 
forthcoming programs/schemes. 


5.2.7. Co-generation Projects 


a. 


Promotion of Co-generation Projects 
This Policy will promote generation of energy through co-generation to enable 
development of co-generation projects in the State. 


Additional Support for Co-generation Projects 


1. Developer of co-generation projects is allowed to use the power for captive/group 
captive or sale in Power Exchange or third party sale within and/or outside the 
State. 

2. The Government of Karnataka will promote co-generation projects as per the 
guidelines or prevailing schemes of State Government/Central Government 
including MNRE’s scheme on BIOURJA, Biomass based Cogeneration in Sugar 
Mills and other industries or any other forthcoming programs/schemes. 


5.2.8. Waste to Energy Projects 


a. 


Promotion of Waste to Energy Projects 
This Policy will promote generation of energy from wastes to enable development 
of waste-to-energy projects in the State. 


Additional Support for Waste-to- Energy Projects 


1. Procurement of energy from Waste-to-Energy Projects by ESCOMs shall be as 
per the tariff determined by the KERC. 

2. Developer of waste-to-energy projects is allowed to use the power for 
captive/group captive or third party sale within and outside the State. 


ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ನಪತ್ರ ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ೫೪೭೭ 
ಶ್ರ SS 


5.2.9. Mini and Small-Hydro Projects 


a. Promotion of Mini and Small-Hydro Projects 
This Policy will promote generation of energy through mini and small-hydro 
projects in the State. 


b. Additional Support for mini and Small-Hydro Projects 


1. Procurement of energy from mini and small-hydro projects shall be based on the 
tariff based competitive bidding process as per the requirement of ESCOMs, 
subject to the approval of the KERC. 

2. Mini and Small-hydro projects allotted under open access category are permitted 
to use the power for captive/group captive or third party sale within the State. 

3. The Government of Karnataka will promote Mini and Small Hydro Projects as per 
the guidelines or prevailing schemes of State Government/Central Government 
including the MNRE’s scheme on “Small Hydro Power Programme” and its 
amendments or any other forthcoming schemes/programs. 

4. The project developer shall obtain various statutory clearances including but not 
limited to techno-economic clearances, Forest and Environmental (if necessary) 
clearances, clearance regarding water availability and others required for the 
project development. 

5. Payment of royalty shall be as per the Orders of Irrigation/WWRD, Gok issued from 
time to time. 


5.2.10. New Initiatives/Pilot Projects/R&D 


a. 


The Government of Karnataka will promote adoption of new and emerging 
technologies in the State. The State may support new initiatives/pilot projects 
including off-shore wind energy projects, tidal and wave energy, rooftop aero turbine 
along with solar energy, highway aero turbines, hydrogen and fuel cells, Bio-CNG, 
concentrated solar power and other emerging energy technologies. 


For promotion of offshore wind energy projects, the Government of Karnataka may 
explore development of offshore wind energy projects along with MNRE and NIWE, 
under the applicable schemes, programs and guidelines of MNRE. 


Initiatives from the private sector in Research and Development (R&D) activities for 
advancement of RE may be encouraged by the State. 


For promotion of Bio-CNG generation from wastes, existing schemes such as 
“Sustainable Alternative Toward Affordable Transportation (SATAT)” under Ministry 
of Petroleum and Natural Gas will be supported by the Government of Karnataka 


To encourage solar thermal market, solar steam generating systems at institutions 
and industries shall be encouraged. Solar water pumps, water purification systems, 
solar application to cottage industries shall be priority areas. To conserve electricity 
in peak hours, solar water heaters, solar lighting systems, solar hoardings etc., shall 
be encouraged in domestic, commercial and industrial applications. 


KREDL will be the nodal agency for promotion of new initiatives/pilot projects in the 
State. 


೫೪೭೮ 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ 


6. Allotment of Projects 


6.1. Procedure for Application and Allotment of Projects 


a. Common for all RE projects 


1. 


The applicant shall furnish the details as per the prescribed application form along with 
required documents by paying applicable fees as prescribed by the Government of 
Karnataka from time to time. 

The net worth of the company shall be at least 30% of the total project cost. 

The capital cost per MW considered by the KERC from time to time in the respective tariff 
Orders for solar, wind, mini and small hydro, biomass, cogeneration and waste to energy 
projects shall be used as reference for considering the net worth requirements. However, 
in case of cogeneration projects, cost of sugar factory shall be excluded and only the cost 
of cogeneration power project to be considered. In case of Renewable Energy Park, 
floating solar and energy storage projects, the total project cost shall be considered as 
per the Detailed Project Report for the purpose of arriving at the net worth of company. 
The developer shall identify the site/land area required for the project development. 
Further, the details of the land required for the proposed project, such as break up of 
Private/Revenue/Forest land along with tentative survey numbers and records of Rights, 
Tenancy and Crops shall be submitted by the project developer. 

In the case of wind projects/parks, the extent of land along with the co-ordinates of WTGs 
shall be marked on the topo sheet and furnished along with the application. 

ISTS projects under competitive bidding including projects selected through bids floated 
by SECI, NTPC, and any other entity shall obtain Government of Karnataka Order with 
payment of applicable fees as per clause 7.2 of this Policy. 


b. Wind and Hybrid Projects/Park (Solar-Wind or other renewable energy-Wind) 


1. 


The project developer shall furnish the application containing the project details including 
co-ordinates of each WTG along with survey numbers required for the implementation of 
the project. 

The application shall be received from the project developer for the purpose of issuance 
of Government Order only, and no facilitation shall be provided for wind resource 
assessment. 

KREDL shall scrutinize the application and details of project including Detailed Project 
Report and submit the proposal to SLAC for allotment of the project. 

SLAC shall review the proposal and recommend for issuance of Government Order only 
when the project is feasible. 

The allottee shall execute an Implementation Agreement with the KREDL within 45 days 
from the date of Government Order. 

Developer can apply for one time capacity enhancement; however, the completion period 
of project shall be as per the timeline prescribed in the original Government Order. 


c. Solar Project/Park (including floating solar) and Energy Storage Projects 


1. 


2. 


The project developer shall submit the application along with applicable fees and 
requisite documents. 

KREDL shall scrutinize the application and documents submitted by the applicant and 
recommend to Energy Department, Government of Karnataka for issuance of 
Government Order. 


ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ೫೪೩೯ 


6. Mini and Small Hydro 


1. 


2. 


The project developer shall furnish a Pre-Feasibility Report containing the preliminary 
details required for the implementation of the project along with the application. 

The project developer shall submit the details of the land for the proposed small hydro 
project such as Private/Revenue/Forest along with extent of land required, village map 
with marking of project location. 

KREDL shall scrutinize the application and letters will be addressed to Forest 
Department (to ascertain the availability of land if it lies in Forest area), Water Resource 
Department (to ascertain water availability), and Karnataka Power Corporation Limited (if 
the project comes in the vicinity of KPCL projects). 

On receipt of clearances from Forest Department, Water Resources Department and 
KPCL, the proposal shall be sent to SLAC for allotment of the project. 

SLAC shall review the proposal and recommend for issuance of Government Order only 
when the project is feasible. 

Government Order will be issued by the Energy Department, Government of Karnataka. 
The allottee shall execute an Agreement within 45 days from the date of Government 
Order with KREDL. 

The project developer shall submit the Detailed Project Report within one year from the 
date of issuance of Government Order and KREDL will issue the technical clearance for 
project on receipt of Detailed Project Report and applicable fees. 


e. Biomass, Co-generation, and Waste to Energy 


1. 


3. 


4. 


The developer shall submit Detailed Project Report along with prescribed application and 
processing fee. 


In the case of Biomass or Co-generation, Waste to energy projects, the developer shall 
comply with the following before applying: 


a. In the case of biomass or co-generation projects, the proposed technology, the fuel 
availability and location from where the fuel to be sourced shall be provided. The raw 
materials available in the radius of 40KM surroundings will be taken into 
consideration for issuance of NOC for the Biomass power projects to avoid 
overlapping of other Biomass projects. 


b. Applications in respect of co-generation will be considered only after sugar cane 
allotment from the Department of Industries and Commerce, Government of 
Karnataka. 


c. Applications in respect of waste to energy projects will be considered only after 
assurance/consent for allotment of waste from the concerned local bodies. The 
developer shall furnish the details of waste storage along with the initial consent from 
the Pollution Control Board. 


After verifying the proposal of biomass, co-generation and waste to energy projects, 
KREDL will recommend to the Government of Karnataka for issuance of NOC. 


Apart from this, the details of the availability of waste in each district will be published / 
uploaded in KREDL website after a detailed study with the authenticated input from the 
local governing bodies/authorities including the Municipal Authorities to facilitate 


೫೪೮೦ 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ 


೨ 


ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ 


decentralized energy generation. This will also help in minimizing waste transportation 
and the eradication of the epidemics. 


5. The availability of biomass in each district in each season with its type, quantity and 
calorific values of each fuel will also be published / uploaded in KREDL website after a 
detailed study with authenticated input from the local governing bodies / authorities 
including the Agriculture Department to ensure decentralized energy generation and to 
increase the economic activities / GSDP of rural Karnataka besides creating job 
opportunities for locals. 


6.2. Criteria for Utilisation of Land to Setup Renewable 
Energy Projects 


In order to setup the RE projects based on various technologies, the maximum land 
area/spaceto be utilised by the developer will be as under: 


SI.No Technology 


1 Solar PV 
Technology 
with and 
without 
tracker 


Maximum area that can be utilized for 
the project 


3.5 acres per MWac 


2 Wind 


4 acres per WTG (land requirement for 
WTGs shall be reviewed from time to 
time based on the models approved by 
MNRE in the RLMM. Project developer 
shall perform the micro siting as per 
MNRE guidelines for Development of 
Onshore Wind Power Projects and its 
amendments issued from time to time) 


Remarks 


Any additional land requirement 
beyond the maximum area shall 
be evaluated by the 
Government of Karnataka on 
case to case basis, depending 
upon the topography of the 
location. 


3 Solar Rooftop 


100 Sq. ft per 1 kWp 


ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ೫೪೮೧ 


7. Project Development Timelines, Fees and 
Charges 


7.1. Timelines 


a. The timeline for completion of the RE projects under captive/group captive and third- 
party sale (both within and outside the RE parks) is mentioned below. In case the 
developer fails to complete the project within the stipulated timeline, the time 
extension fee (as in provision 7.2) shall be applicable as per this Policy. 


Sl. RE Projects Stipulated Extension of Time from 
No Commissioning Stipulated 
Timeline from the Commissioning Timeline 


Date of G.O with Payment 
Applicable 
Extension Fee 
1 Solar Energy Project Within 2 years Maximum up to 2 years 
(including floating 50180) 
/Solar Parks with or without 
Energy Storage System 
2 Wind Energy Projects/Parks Within 2 years Maximum up to 2 years 
including hybrid with or 
without Energy Storage 


System 
3 Biomass, Co-generation, and Within 2 years Maximum up to 2 years 
Waste to Energy 
4 Energy Storage Within 1 year Maximum up to 1 year 
(for non- PHS) 
Within 4 years Maximum up to 2 years 
(for PHS) 
5 Mini and Small Hydro Within 3 years Maximum up to 2 years 


b. The Government of Karnataka will cancel the allotment/NOC issued for the RE 
projects, after any delay beyond the above time extension period. 


c. The developer must approach the KREDL at least (3) three months before the scheduled 
commissioning date seeking extension of time along with valid justification and supporting 
documents. 

d. Incase the developer fails to commission the project within the stipulated period, KREDL will 
recommend to the Gok for cancellation of the Government Order and after cancellation of 
Government Order, the performance bank guarantee will be forfeited. 

e. If the capacity is developed partially in the overall time period, the allotted capacity will be 
restricted to the commissioning capacity and the remaining capacity will be treated as 
cancelled. In such a case, the performance bank guarantee will be encashed/forfeited and 
the amount equivalent to the commissioned capacity shall be refunded to the project 
developer by the KREDL. 

f. The quarterly progress report shall be submitted to KREDL by the project developer. 


೫೪೮೨ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ 


ಎ 


7.2. Fees and Charges 


a. Fees and Charges for Competitive Bidding Projects within the State 


The fees and charges applicable for RE projects developed under tariff-based 
competitive bidding shall be as per the tender conditions and Karnataka Transparency in 
Public Procurements (KTPP) Act and its amendments issued from time to time. 


b. Fees and Charges for Open Access Projects with energy sale within the State and 
outside the State, and ISTS projects under Competitive Bidding 


The fees and charges applicable for open access projects across various categories of RE 
projects under InSTS and ISTS category, and ISTS projects under competitive bidding are given 
below: 


Category Application Processing Performance Net-Worth Time Transfer 
Fee (INR Fee Bank per MW Extension Fee 
per MW) (INR per Guarantee Fee in (INR per 


MW) (INR per INR per MwW)* 
MW) MW per 
Year 


Solar (including 2,00,000 5,00,000 30% of the | 100,000 1,50,000 
floating solar) project 
a) Upto 15,000 cost 
10MW determined 
b) 11MWto | 25,000 by KERC 
50MW 
c) 51MW 35,000 
and 
above 
Wind 2,00,000 5,00,000 30% of the | 100,000 1,50,000 
project 
a) Upto 15,000 cost 
10MW : 
determined 
b) 11MWto | 25,000 by KERC 
50MW 
c) 51MW 35,000 
and 
above 
Wind Solar 2,00,000 5,00,000 30% of the | 100,000 1,50,000 
Hybrid project 
a) Upto 15,000 cost 
10MW determined 
b) 11MWto | 25,000 by KERC 
50MW 
c) 51MW 35,000 
and 
above 
Renewable 2,00,000 5,00,000 30% of the | 100,000 1,50,000 
Energy Parks project 
a) 25MW to | 25,000 cost 
50MW determined 
b) 51MW to | 35,000 in the DPR 
200MW 


ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, 


"೨ 


ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ 


೫೪೮೩ 


Category 


c) 201 MW 


Application 
Fee (INR 
per MW) 


50,000 


Processing Performance Net-Worth 


Fee 


(INR per 


MW) 


Bank 


Guarantee 
(INR per 


MW) 


per MW 


Time 


Extension 


Fee in 
INR per 
MW per 
Year 


Transfer 
Fee 

(INR per 
Mw)* 


and 
above 
Energy Storage 

a) Upto 15,000 2,00,000 5,00,000 30% of the | 100,000 1,50,000 
10MW project 

b) 11MWto | 25,000 cost 
50MW determined 

c) 514MW 35,000 in the DPR 
and 
above 


SOMW 


Mini and Small 2,00,000 5,00,000 30% of the | 100,000 1,50,000 
Hydro project 
cost 
a) .. 1900 determined 
by KERC 
b) 11MWto | 25,000 
25MW 
Biomass 2,00,000 5,00,000 30% of the | 100,000 1,50,000 
project 
cost 
a) aan vant determined 
by KERC 
b) 11MWto | 25,000 
50MW 
c) 514MW 
and 
above 
Co-generation 2,00,000 5,00,000 30% of the | 100,000 1,50,000 
project 
cost 
a) ae eee determined 
by KERC 
b) 11MWto | 25,000 
50MW 
c) 514MW 35,000 
and 
above 
Waste to 1,00,000 2,50,000 30% of the | 100,000 50,000 
Energy (WTE) project 
cost 
a) .. te00e determined 
by KERC 
b) 11MW to | 25,000 


೫೪೮೪ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ 


ಇ 


Category Application Processing Performance Net-Worth Time Transfer 
Fee (INR Fee Bank per MW Extension Fee 
per MW) (INR per Guarantee Fee in (INR per 


MW) (INR per INR per MWw)* 
MW) MW per 
Year 


c) 514MW 35,000 
and 
above 
Rooftop 500 per 1,000 per 
Projects project project 
(1 to <5 kWp)** 
Rooftop 1,000 per 2,000 per - - - - 
Projects project project 
(5-50 kWp)** 
Rooftop 2,000 per 5,000 per - - - - 
Projects project project 
(>50 kWp and 
up to 1 MWp)** 


Rooftop 5,000 per 10,000 per | - - - - 
Projects project project 

(>1 MWp and 

<10 MWp)** 


* Transfer fee is applicable if Company Identification Number (CIN) issued by Registrar of 
Companies (RoC) are different. In case CIN is same, the applicable charges shall be as per 
the Government Order No: EN 392 NCE 2008 dated 13.10.2009 and Government Order 
No: EN 61 NCE 2010 dated 06.07.2010, and its revision issued from time to time. 
** For Roof top projects the applicable fees shall be paid to Distribution Licensees. 
Note: 

1. The charges mentioned above may be revised from time to time as notified by the 

Government of Karnataka. 


2. The other fees and charges not specified in this provision shall be applicable as per the 
Government Order No: EN 392 NCE 2008 dated 13.10.2009 and Government Order No: 
EN 61 NCE 2010 dated 06.07.2010, and its revision issued from time to time. 


3. The application fee shall be non-refundable. In case of non-allocation of projects by the 
GoK OR in case of developer requests for withdrawal of application before submission to 
the Gok, 70 % (Seventy per cent) of processing fee shall be refunded to developers by 
KREDL. 


4. The GST as applicable shall be payable in addition to the above fees and charges. 


5. The performance bank guarantee shall be returned to the project developer after 
successful completion of the project. 


6. The performance bank guarantee shall be renewed by the project developer before 
2(two) months of the validity period. In case of non-renewal of performance bank 
guarantee by the project developer, KREDL shall encash the performance bank 
guarantee without notice. 


7. IPPs, Captive/Group Captive, REC and ISTS projects’ applicants should get Government 
approval duly submitting the application and the relevant documents as detailed in 
KREDL website “kredl.karnataka.gov.in”. 


8. The change of category of RE projects from InSTS to ISTS is allowed and ISTS to InSTS 
shall be allowed subject to availability of evacuation from KPTCL. 


ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ೫೪೮೫ 


8. Administration of the Policy 
8.1. Nodal Agency 


Karnataka Renewable Energy Development Limited (KREDL) is the State Nodal Agency for 
implementation of this Policy. However, the smart grid projects as specified in the Karnataka 
Electricity Regulatory Commission (Smart Grid) Regulations, 2015 shall be implemented by 
the transmission licensee and/or distribution licensee. 


8.2. State Level Allotment Committee 


A State Level Allotment Committee (SLAC) will be constituted for approval of the RE 
projects i.e., wind projects, wind-solar hybrid projects/parks and mini & small Hydro projects 
under this Policy and to fast track its implementation. The SLAC shall comprise of the 
following members: 


1 The Additional Chief Secretary/Principal Secretary to | Chairman 
Government, Energy Department 

2 The Additional Chief Secretary / Principal Secretary to | Member 
Government, Revenue Department 

3 The Additional Chief Secretary/ Principal Secretary to | Member 
Government (Forest), Forest, Ecology & Environment 
Department 

4 The Additional Chief Secretary/ Principal Secretary to | Member 
Government, Water Resources Department 

5 The Managing Director, Karnataka Renewable Energy | Member 
Development Limited 

6 The Chief Conservator of Forest (Forest Conservation), | Member 
Government of Karnataka 

7 The Director (Technical), Karnataka Power Corporation | Member 
Limited 

8 The Director (Transmission), Karnataka Power | Member 
Transmission Corporation Limited 

9 The Additional Secretary /Joint Secretary /Deputy | Convener 
Secretary to Government, Energy Department 


The SLAC shall meet once in every three months or on need basis. KREDL will examine 
and submit project proposals with recommendations to GoK for placing before SLAC for 
discussion. After issuance of Government Order allotting the project, the developer may 
approach the concerned departments for obtaining clearance/approvals. The developer may 
also request KREDL to issue facilitation letters for obtaining clearance/approvals from the 
concerned departments. The concerned department shall convey the 
approval/clearance/observation or comments if any within a stipulated time period of 45 
days from the date of application. 
KREDL as a State Nodal Agency shall carry out the following functions: 

1. Verification and Recommendation of proposals to GoK. 

2. Actas a facilitator to obtain all statutory clearances by issuing facilitation letters. 

3. Resolution of Policy level issues for accelerating deployment of various RE technologies. 

4. Monitoring the progress of project implementation. 


೫೪೮೬ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ 


8.3. Power to Remove Difficulties and Interpret 


The Energy Department, Government of Karnataka will have power to amend or review or 
relax or interpret any of the provisions under this Policy as and when required. If any 
difficulty arises in giving effect to this Policy, KREDL in consultation with Energy 
Department, Government of Karnataka and after taking approval from Government of 
Karnataka, is authorized to issue clarifications as well as interpretations to such provisions, 
as may appear to be necessary for removing the difficulties either on its own motion or after 
hearing those parties who have represented for change in any provisions. 

If there is any confusion or dispute about the meaning, intent or purpose of any provision of 
this Policy, the interpretation given by Energy Department, Government of Karnataka shall 
be final and binding to all concerned. 

Further, Energy Department, Government of Karnataka will have power to allocate more RE 
capacity to the project developers beyond the target mentioned in this Policy during the 
Policy period. 

Notwithstanding anything contained in this Policy, the provisions of the Electricity Act, 2003, 
MNRE_ guidelines, applicable CERC Regulations, Grid Code, and the applicable 
Regulations issued by the KERC from time to time shall prevail for the purpose of 
implementation of this Policy. 


By order and in the name of 
Governor of Karnataka, 


(N. Mangalagowri) 
Under Secretary to Government, 
Energy Department. 
PR-384 
ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ಸರ್ಕಾರದ 


ಸಂಖ್ಯೆ:ಸಿಐ 17 ಎ೦ಜಿಐಎಸ್‌ 2022 ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ಸರ್ಕಾರದ ಸಚಿವಾಲಯ 
ವಿಕಾಸಸೌಧ, 
ಬೆ೦ಗಳೂರು, ದಿನಾ೦ಕ: 13-04-2022 


ತಿದ್ದೋಲೆ 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ TONDO ಮಾಡುವ ಘಟಕಗಳ ವಿಯಂ೦ತ್ರಣ (ತಿದ್ದುಪಡಿ) ನಿಯಮಗಳು, 2014 ಕ್ಕೆ 
ಸ೦ಬಂಧಿಸಿದ೦ತೆ ದಿನಾ೦ಕ:23-03-2022 ರ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರದಲ್ಲಿ ಪ್ರಕಟಿಸಲಾದ ಅಧಿಸೂಚನೆಯ 
ಕಡತ “ಸ೦ಖ್ಯೆ:ಸಿಐ 20 ಎ೦ಜಿಎಸ್‌ 2014” ಅನ್ನು ಸ೦ಖ್ಯೆ: ಸಿಐ 17 ಎ೦ಜಿಎಸ್‌ 2022" ಎ೦ದು 
ಹಾಗೂ “ಅಧಿಸೂಚನೆ ಸ೦ಖ್ಯೆ: ಸಿಐ 20 ಎ೦ಜಿಎಸ್‌ 2014, ದಿನಾ೦ಕ:21.03.2022” ಅನ್ನು 
“ಸಿಐ 20 ಎ೦ಎಲ೦ಎನ್‌ 2014, ದಿನಾ೦ಕ:06-02-2014” ಎ೦ದು ತಿದ್ದಿ ಓದಿಕೊಳ್ಳತಕ್ಕದ್ದು. 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪಾಲರ ಅದೇಶಾನುಸಾರ 
ಮತ್ತು ಅವರ ಹೆಸರಿನಲ್ಲಿ, 


(ಸುಮ ಐಎಸ್‌) 
ಸರ್ಕಾರದ ಅಧೀನ ಕಾರ್ಯದರ್ಶಿ (ಗಣಿ-2) 
ವಾಣಿಜ್ಯ ಮತ್ತು ಕೈಗಾರಿಕೆಗಳ ಇಲಾಖೆ. 
PR-385 


ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ೫೪೮೭ 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ಸರ್ಕಾರ 


ಸಂಖ್ಯೆ: ನಅಇ 137 ಬಿಎ೦ಆರ್‌ 2021 (ಇ) ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ಸರ್ಕಾರದ ಸಚಿವಾಲಯ, 
4ನೇ ಮಹಡಿ, ವಿಕಾಸ ಸೌಧ, 
ಬೆ೦ಗಳೂರು, ದಿನಾ೦ಕ: 28-04-2022. 


ಅಧಿಸೂಚನೆ 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ನಗರಾಭಿವೃದ್ದಿ ಪ್ರಾಧಿಕಾರಗಳ ಕಾಯ್ದೆ 1987ರ FOO 3(3)(ಎ), 3(3)(ಎ೦) ಮತ್ತು 
3(3)(4) ರಡಿ ಪ್ರದತ್ತವಾದ ಅಧಿಕಾರವನ್ನು ಚಲಾಯಿಸಿ ಈ ಕೆಳಕ೦ಡ ವ್ಯಕ್ತಿಗಳನ್ನು ರಾಮನಗರ 
ನಗರಾಭಿವೃದ್ಧಿ ಪ್ರಾಧಿಕಾರದ ಅಧ್ಯಕ್ಷರು ಮತ್ತು ಸದಸ್ಯರನ್ನಾಗಿ ತಕ್ಷಣದಿ೦ದ ಜಾರಿಗೆ ಬರುವಂತೆ 
ಹಾಗೂ ಮುಂದಿನ ಆದೇಶದವರೆಗೆ ನೇಮಕ ಮಾಡಿ ಆದೇಶಿಸಿದೆ. 


tia ಹೆಸರು ಮತ್ತು ವಿಳಾಸ ಸ್ಥಾನ 


1. | ಶೀಕೆ.ಎಸ್‌. ಶಿವಮಾಧು ಬಿನ್‌ ಲೇಟ್‌ ಸಿದ್ದಪ್ಪ, ಅಧ್ಯಕ್ಷರು 
ಕೃಷ್ಣಾಪುರ ದೊಡ್ಡಿ, ಕೈಲಾ೦ಚ ಹೋಬಳಿ, 
ರಾಮನಗರ ತಾಲ್ಲೂಕು. 


2. | He ಸಿ೦ಗ್ರಯ್ಯ ಬಿನ್‌ ಚೆಲುವಯ್ಯ ಸದಸ್ಯರು 
ಕೇತುಹಳ್ಳಿ, ಕಸಬಾ ಹೋಬಳಿ, ರಾಮನಗರ (ಎಸ್‌.ಸಿ) 
ತಾಲ್ಲೂಕು. 

3. | ಶ್ರೀ ನರೇ೦ದ್ರ. ಡಿ. ಬಿನ್‌ ದಾಸಪ್ಪ, ಸದಸ್ಯರು 


ಹನುಮಂತನಗರ, ನ೦.64, ಎಸ್‌.ಎಲ್‌.ವಿ 
ನಿಲಯ, ರಾಮನಗರ ಟೌನ್‌. 


ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪಾಲರ ಆದೇಶಾನುಸಾರ 
ಮತ್ತು ಅವರ ಹೆಸರಿನಲ್ಲಿ, 


(ಎಸ್‌. ವೀಣಾ) 
ಸರ್ಕಾರದ ಅಧೀನ ಕಾರ್ಯದರ್ಶಿ, 
ನಗರಾಭಿವೃದ್ಧಿ ಇಲಾಖೆ. 
PR-386 


GOVERNMENT OF KARNATAKA 


No. RD 13 LGP 2022 Karnataka Government Secretariat, 
M.S.Building, 
Bengaluru, Dated: 05.05.2022 


NOTIFICATION 


The draft of the following rules further to amend the Karnataka Land Revenue Rules, 1966, 
which the Government of Karnataka proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 19 and 197 of the Karnataka Land Revenue Act, 1964, (Karnataka Act 12 of 1964) is 
hereby published as required by sub-section (1) of section 197 of the said Act for the 
information of all persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the 
said draft will be taken into consideration after expiry of fifteen days from the date of its 
publication in the Official Gazette. 


R.N.I. No. KARBIL/2001/47147 POSTAL ೧೯೦೫. No. RNP/KA/BGS/2202/2017-19 
Licensed to post without prepayment WPP No. 297 


೫೪೮೮ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಶುಕ್ರವಾರ, ೦೬, ಮೇ, ೨೦೨೨ ಭಾಗ ೪ಎ 


Any objection or suggestion, which may be received by the State Government from any 
person with respect to the said draft before the expiry of the period specified above, will be 
considered by the State Government. Objection and suggestions may be addressed to the 
Principal Secretary to Government, Revenue Department, 5th floor, Multistoried Building, 
Bengaluru-560 001. 


DRAFT RULES 


1. Title and commencement.- (1) These rules may be called the Karnataka Land Revenue 
(Amendment) Rules, 2022. 


(2) They shall come into force from the date of their final publication in the Official Gazette. 


2. Amendment of rule 43.- In the Karnataka Land Revenue Rules, 1966 (hereinafter referred 
to as the said rules), in rule 43, in sub rule (3), after the words “sub-division”, the words “or 
an officer in the equivalent rank of Assistant Commissioner notified by the Government from 
time to 117307”, shall be inserted. 


3. Amendment of rule 69.- In the said rules, in rule 69, after the words “the Assistant 
Commissioner’, the words, “or an officer in the equivalent rank of Assistant Commissioner 
notified by the Government from time to time’, shall be inserted. 


By order in the name of the 
Governor of Karnataka 


(C. BALARAM) 
Under Secretary to Government, 
Revenue Department (Land Grants-1) 


PR-387 


ಮುದ್ರಕರು ಹಾಗೂ ಪ್ರಕಾಶಕರು:- ಸಂಕಲನಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು, ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ರಾಜ್ಯಪತ್ರ, ಸರ್ಕಾರಿ ಕೇಂದ್ರ ಮುದ್ರಣಾಲಯ, ಬೆಂಗಳೂರು. 


SUNIL GARDE =" 


