REGISTERED No. D . 


REGISTERED NO.D. de R ( ) 


The Eazette 


of # ndia 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 39] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959/ASVINA 4 , 1881 


NOTICE 


The undermentioned Gazette of India Extraordinary was published upto the 14th 
tember, 1959 — 


Scp 


Ionuç 
No . 


No, and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


135 . 


S . O . 2025 , dated 14th Septem - Ministry of Informa- 
ber, 1959 . 

tion and Broad - 
casting . 


Approval of films specificd 
thercin , 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi, Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
this Gazette . 


PART II — Section 3 – Sub -section (1 ) 
Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern . 

ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central 
Authorities ( other than the Administrations of Union Territories ). 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 
New Delhi, the 18th September 1959 


S . O . 2088 .- In pursuance of sub - section ( 6 ) of Section 116A of the Representa 
tion of the People Act, 1951 (43 of 1951) , the Election Commission hereby publishes 
the decision of the High Court of Judicature in Assam given on the 7th July , 1959 , 
on an appcal from the order dated the 30th August, 1958 of the Election Tribunal 
Gauhati. 

(2451 ) 


2451 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1969 /ASVINA 4 , 1881 


PART 1 


IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE IN ASSAM 

FIRST APPEAL (ELECTION ) NO. 38 OF 1958 
( From a judgment dated 30th August 1958 passed by Mr. R . Labhaya , Member, 
Election Tribunal, Gauhati. ) 
Amjad Al ( defendant) -- Appellant 


Versus 


Nazmul Haque (Petitioner ) – Respondent. 

FIRST APPEAL (ELECTION ) No. 39 OF 1958 
Jahanuddin Ahmed , Bibhuti Bhushan Sarkar - Appellants 

versus 
Nazmul Haque (petitioner ) - Respondent, 


PREBENT 
The Hon . Mr. C . P . Sinha , C . J. 

The Hon , Mr. Justice H . Deka . 
For the appellant in F .A . No. 38 / 58: 
Mr, N . C . Chatterjee, Mr. S . K . Ghosh , Mr. R . K . Bose , Mr. P . Choudhuri, 

Mr, H , Goswami, Mr. K . P . Sen , Mr. J. P . Bhattacherjee , Mr. B . M . 

Goswami, Advocates , 
For the appellants in F .A , 39 / 38 : 
Mr. R . K . Bose, Mr. H . Goswami, Mr. K . P . Sen , Mr, B . M , Goswami, 

Advocates . 
For the respondent: 
Mr. S . M . Lahiri, Advocate, Mr. M . C . Pathak , Mr. B . Islam , Mr. A . Şarkar, 

Mr. R . C . Choudhuri, Advocates . 
Date of hearing : 

8th , 9th 13th , 17th , 20th , 21st 22nd , 23rd and 24th April, 1959. 
Date of judgment : ~ 7th July 1969 . 

JUDGMENT 
Deka , J. - These two are connected appeals under section 116A of the Repre 
sentation of the People Act 1951, which arose out of the same proceeding which 
was registered as Flection Case No. 237 of 1957 in the court of Mr. Ram Labhaya , 
Member , Election Tribunal, The election petition was filed under action 81 read 
with section 80 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 by Nazmul Haque, 
challenging the election of Amjad Ali who was returned to the House of People 
from the Parliamentary constituency numbered as H . P , 38 — Dhubri, in the district 
of Goalpara , on the ground of corrupt practice amongst others and for naming 
certain other persons to be guilty of the corrupt practices in confunction with Sri 
Amtad Ali. Nazmul Haque was the only rival of Amjad All in the election . The 
Election Tribunal by its fudement dated 30th August 1968 found in favour of 
the petitioner and held that the election of Amjad All was had for taking recourge 
to corrupt practice coming within the scope of section 123 ( 3 ) of the Representation 
of the People Act and in that connection named or associated two other persons 
for committing the alleged corrupt practices and they were Jahanuddin Ahmed 
and Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar . Jahanuddin Ahmed was one of the persons returned 
to the State Legislative Assemhly . All these three persons were found guilty 
under section 99 ( 1 ) of the Representation of the People Act to have committed 
the corrupt practices as alleged and they were held to he disquallAed for voting 
at any election for a period of six years from the date of the order purporting to 
act under section 141 of the Representation of the People Act. The election of 
Amtad All to the House of People was declared vold under section 98 ( b ) read 
with section 100 (h ) of the sold Act. Against this fudgment Amtad All has Aled 
in this court First Appeal (Election ) No. 38 of 1958 and Jahanuddin Ahmed and 
Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar have folntly Aled First Appeal (Election ) No . 39 of 1958 
Since the two appeals arose from the same fudgment they were heard together 
and we propose to give one judgment covering both these appeals. 

The case for the petitioner Nazmul Haque was that he was a candidate for 
the Dhuhr Parliamentary Constituency ( H . P 38 ) and that he WAS 3 nominee 


SEO (0 ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 20 , 


A , A1, 


2452 


of the Congress Party . Amjad All his only rival in the election . who was then 
a sitting member of Parliament, was set up by the Praja Socialist Party . The 
pollings were held on three days - uiz - - 25th February , 2nd March and 6th March 
1957 in various centres and as a result of the counting of votes it was found that 
Amiad Ali had secured 1 ,01 303 votes as against 73 .410 votes secured by the 
petitioner and accordingly , the former was declared to be elected as Meinber of 
the Parliament on the 11th March 1957 . The petitioner s case further was that 
the Parliamentary Constituency above named consisted of ten Assembly Consti 
tuencies . Six of these were within the district of Goalpara and the other four 
within the Garo Hills Autonomous District It was further alleged that the 
matority oť voters were Muslims in the following Assembly constituency of the 
Goalpara District. - namely South Salmara . Gauripur, Mankachar and Dhubri. 
These Muslim voters were according to the petitioner, simple and susceptible to 
false religious propaganda and that the defendant Amjad Ali belonging to the 
minority communitv ( a Muslim ) was responsible for carrying on mischievous 
propaganda on religious and communal lines personally , through his supporters 
and the Assembly candidates of Praia Socialist Party as well as the independent 
candidate , and this led a vast malority of the electors of the Muslim community to 
vote for the defendant Amtad Ali but for which they would have voted for the 
petitioner The allegation was that this mischievous propaganda was systematically 
carried through public meetings group meetings and by individual contact. The 
persons who carried on surh mierhievous propaganda on the lines above suggested , 
were alleged to be Jahanuddin Ahmed , Santi Rov . Bthhuti Bhusan Sarkar Saharat 
Ali, Sheikh Ma, Azad All Ahul Fazal, Cant Williamson Sangma and others The 
main planks on which defendent Amiad Ali was stated to have canvassed on 
relirious and communal lines systematically amongst the electors , were as 
follows : 
(a ) Banning of cow macrifice and cow slaughter by the Congress Govern 

ment. 
( b ) Stonnage of burial of Muslim dead bodies and their compulsory burning 

instead 
( c ) Compulsory singing of Ramdhun by Muslim teachers and students 
( d ) Worship of Tulsi plant in the South Salmara Basic Training Institute . 
(e ) Banning of Azan 

(1) Shifting of Jumma prayer from Friday to Sunday . 
The allegation was that the members of the Praja Socialist Party including the 
defendant had made wrong representation and had falsely preached and canvassed 
amongst the Muslims that the Congress was attempting to interfere with the 
Muslim religion and as such the defendant had indulged in corrupt practices 
coming within section 123 ( ? ) of the Representation of the People Act. The relevant 
clause is in the following form : 
" 123. Corrupt practices. The following shall be deemed to be corrupt practices 

for the purpose of this Act : - - 
( 3 ) The systematic appeal by a candidate or his agent or by any other 

person , to vote or refrain from voting on the grounds of caste , 
rare, community Or religion or the use of, or appeal to , religious 
symbols or the use of or appeal to , national symbols , such as the 
national flag of the national emblem for the furtherance of the 
prospects of that candidate s election ." 


In paragraph 10 of the petition Aled by Nazmul Haque , he has given particulars 
of the meeting and their respective places or venies where communal propaganda 
was alleged to he carried on , and he has alted no less than twenty -nine specific 
Instances, suggesting the subject -matters that were discussed or plared before 
the audience with a view to inspire the religious or communal passion against 
the petitioner and for the furtherance of the election prognerts of the defendant 
himself The petitioner further alleged that as a result of this propaganda , the 
religious sentiments and Quecentihilities of the Muslims were exploited to the 
disadvantage of the petitioner who had sought election on Congress ticket.- the 
point of attack of the defendant being against the Congress Government and the 
Congress organisation who were falsciv alleged to have indulged in practices 
and nassed legislations prejudicial to the best interests of the muslim religion 
and the Muslim commuity There we mention about prejudicial propaganda 
being carried on in the Garo Hills copstituencies in combination with Williamson 
Sangma and one Samser All (nide paragraph 15 of the petition ). In the course 
of the hearing however , these allegations in paragraph 15 , were given up and 


2454 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 28 , 1959/ ASVINA 4, 1881 


[PART II 


the Tribunal also did not accept the allegations made therein ; It is therefore 
needless for us to refer to those allegations and it will be sufficient for the 
purpose of these appeals it we conine ourselves to the allegations made against 
the defendant and his supporters as stated in paragraph 10 of the petition 
mentioned above, which has reference to twenty -nine or thirty public meetings , 
group meetings or personal contacts . The petitioner s contention was that but 
for the votes obtained illegally by he defendant by resorting to corrupt practices 
coming within section 123 ( 3 ) of the Representation of the People Act, the 
petitioner would have secured the majority of votes and would have been elected 
to the House of People and on that basis , he not only prayed for the setting aside 
of the election of Amjad All but also asked that the Tribunal should declare 
that he was duly elected to the Parliament from the Dhubri constituency . 


In reply to the charges of corrupt practices brought by the petitioner, the 
defendant Aled a written statement categorically denying the allegations of corrupt 
practices ascribed to him and his associates. His case was that he carried on 
propaganda through public meetings but not in the manner and the way as 
alleged by the petitioner , namely by appealing to the religious or communal 
sentiment of his audience . In regard to the specific allegations made in para 
graph 10 of the petition as to the meetings alleged to be held by the defendant 
for the purpose of communal propaganda , the defendant denies not only the fact 
that any such propaganda as alleged therein was carried on , but he denies 
the holding of the meetings or the local contacts as well. From paragraph 
5 to paragraph 23 in the written statement Aled by the defendant, he denies 
separately the allegations contained in paragraphs 10 ( 1 ) to (xviii ) of the 
petition and in paragraph 24 of the written statement he dentes the propaganda 
as well as meetings in other places as stated in paragraph 10 (x1x ) to ( xxx ) of 
the petition . It may be mentioned here that in the course of the hearing 
however , the defendant admitted holding some of the meetings on the same date 
or dates as alleged by the petitioner in some of the places, though comparatively 
few , and in few other cases he admitted to have held the meetings in those 
particular places but on some other date , and in regard to the rest he denied that 
there was any meeting whatsoever as alleged . He had however, consistently 
denied the allegation that there was any propaganda on communal or religious 
lines to exploit the sentiments of the Muslims against the Congress party or the 
Congress Government AS alleged . The defendant further denied the allegations 
of communal propaganda in the four constituences of the District of Garo Hills 
and the Tribunal, as I have already indicated , did not find any case made out 
either against the defendant or against Williamson Sangma for communal propa 
ganda alleged to have been indulged in by them in the meetings held in the Garo 
Hills District. In the appeal also no attempt has been made to show on behalt 
of the respondent Nazmul Haque that finding is incorrect . Therefore the only 
point for investigation would be how far the petitioner succeeded in proving the 
communal propaganda by the defendant in the plain districts of Goalpara . 

· The following issues were framed by the learned Tribunal with the consent 
of the parties : 
( 1 ) Whether the respondent (Amjad Ali ) and his supporters and workers 

carried on propaganda on religious and communal lines, as alleged , 
amounting to corrupt practices, within the meaning of Section 123 ( 3 ) 

of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 ? 
( 2 ) Whether corrupt practices alleged in the notition were committed by 

any person in the interest of the respondent. and if so . whether the 

result of the election has been materially affected thereby ? 
( 3 ) Whether the election of the respondent to the House of the People from 

HP, 38 % Dhubri Parliamentary Constituency is yoid , for the alleged 

corrupt practices committed by him or by any person , as alleged ? 
(4 ) Whether the respondent, through Shrt Williamson Sangma, obtained 

the services of the Laskars in the Garo . whether the obtaining of 
such assistance is corrupt practice within the meaning of section 

123 ( 7 ) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951? 
( 5 ) Whether corrupt practices were also committed by Jahanuddin Ahmed . 

Sahedat Ali. Seikh Md Azad Ali, Abul Fazal. Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar, 
Santi Roy , Hussain Ali Pradhani, Williamson Sangma, Shamser Ali, 
Afzuddin Mandal and Saiyed Ali and . If so , whether they should 

be so named as being guilty of corrupt practices , as alleged ? 
The petitioner examined himself and sixty - two other witnesses in support of 
his case The defendant Amjad All examined himself and thirty -two other 
witnesses . The two other opposite parties who were brought into record at a 


Sec. 9 ( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 /ASVINA 4 , 1881 2455 


subsequent stage, namely Jahanuddin Ahmed and Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar examined 
themselves and examined on their behalf a few other witnesses , apart from 
recalling some of the petitioner s witnesses for the purpose of cross- examination . 
The learned Member of the Tribunal gáve a very exhaustive judgment consisting 
of more than 250 paragraphs and as a result of the appreciation of the evidence 
on record , came to categorical Andings in favour of the petitioner in respect of 
issues 1, 2 and 3 . The first Issue related to facts as to whether the respondent 
and his supporters and workers carried on propaganda on religlous and communal 
lines as alleged , amounting to corrupt practices within the meaning of section 123 ( 3 ) 
of the Representation of the People Act and his finding was in the following 
word : -- 


" I entertain no doubt that Amjad Ali and his supporters who admittedly 

addressed so many meetings at different places and on different 
dates made systematic appeals to voters on religious and communal 
grounds. I regard this matter as proved beyond any reasonable 

doubt." (Vide paragraph 188 of the judgment) . 
Issue No. 2 was "Whether corrupt practices alleged in the petition were com 
mitted by any person in the interest of the respondent, and , if so , whether the 
result of the election has been materially affected thereby ? " The finding of 
the Tribunal was that other persons as alleged had co - operated with Amjad All 
in the matter of carrying on communal propaganda and his finding was in the 
following words : - - 
" I feel no hesitatlon in recording the findings that Amjad Ali has been 

guilty of the corrupt practice defined in section 123 ( 3 ). He himself 
and his supporters with his knowledge and consent systematically 
appealed to voters on communal and religious grounds in further . 
ance of his election prospects ." (Vide paragraph 192 of the Jude 

ment). 
In another place the learned Tribunal stated that apart from there being 
systematic and extensive appeal to Muslim voters on communal grounds which 
amounted to corrupt practice under section 123 ( 3 ) , the respondent (Amjad All ) 
and his supporters created an atmosphere surcharged with communal blas (vide 
paragraph 203 of the judgment) . 

The learned member of the Tribunal however , did not accept the contention 
that the result was materially affected by such propaganda . He further Ands 
that his part of issue No . 2 was not at all pressed, may be because of the fact 
that the difference in number of votes between the petitioner and the defendant 
was so large that the alleged communal or religious propaganda could not have 
explained it , particularly when both the candidates were Muslims. 


In regard to issue No . 3 which related to the fact as to whether the election 
was void on the ground of the defendant having indulged in corrupt practices , 
the learned Tribunal in view of its finding on issue No . 1 , declared the election 
to be vold and set aside the same. Issue No. 4 which related to religious and 
communal propaganda in the Garo Hills District constituencies, was not pressed 
possibly there being no adequate evidence , and it was accordingly decided against 
the petitioner . 


In connection with issue No. 5 which raised the question as to whether corrupt 
practices were committed by Jahanuddin Ahmed , Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar and 
others and whether they should be so named as guilty of corrupt practices , the 
learned Tribunal was of the opinion that the case has been made out only against 
Jahanuddin Ahmed and Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar and not against the rest. He 
accordingly issued notice on Jahanuddin Ahmed and Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar to 
show cause as to why they should not be named as prayed for by the petitioner . 
The petitioner pressed the Tribunal for issue of notice on three persons, namely 
Jahanuddin , Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar and Sahadat Ali under the Proviso to section 
99 of the Representation of the People Act- for the purpose of being named . The 
Tribunal however , issued notice on Jahanuddin Ahmed and Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar 
by its order dated 25th March 1958 and refused to issue notice on Sahadat AH . 
The two opposite parties who are appellants in First Appeal No. 39 / 58 showed 
cause pleading that the allegations against them were false and that they had 
not indulged in any propaganda on communal lines as alleged , - though they 
participated in the election meetings in the interest of the Praja Socialist Party 
and Jahanuddin was actually returned to the Assembly from the constituency 
which he contested against a Congress candidate . The finding of the learner 
Tribunal however, was against these two persong and he found them guilty of 


2456 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959/ ASVINA 4 , 188 ] 


[Part II 


- 


- - 


- 


indulging in corrupt practices in conjunction with Amjad Ali and the result 
would be that the election of Jahanuddin Ahmed would be set aside and he and 
Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar would be debarred 1rom participating in any election for 
a period of six years as provided under section 141 of the Representation of the 
People Act. 

Mr. N . C . Chatterjee , the learned counsel for the appellant in FA. 38 / 58 
challenged the corrections of the judgment of the Tribunal, more strictly , the 
findings arrived at by the Tribunal on the ground that the learned Tribunal had 
neither scanned nor placed much reliance on the oral evidence and had , as a 
matter of course , almost neglected to take into consideration the oral evidence 
adduced by the pa . ties purporting to rely on the so called documentary evidence 
and the circumstances of the case , and that in this manner came to the findings 
prejudicial to the interest of the the appellant. He did not try to place the oral 
evidence before us but drew our attention to paragraphg 139 to 143 of the judg 
ment, wherein the Tribunal opined that both parties having put their cases " sky 
High " and most of the witnesses being partisans, no definite finding could be 
a rived at on the basis of the oral evidence itself, but that he would examine the 
documentary evidence and circumstances which might aid in the matter of com 
ing to the necessary findings as to the truth or otherwise of the allegations. The 
Tribunal expressly found it difficult to believe either version in its entirety while 
applying its mind to the oral evidence . 

Mr. Chatterjee further argued that the documentary evidence by itself would 
prove nothing about the allegations and that the learned Member of the Tribu 
nal was not correct in interpreting them the way he did , He further argued 
that if the findings were based on Clicumstantial evidence as was the attempt 
by the learned Member of the Tribunal, they were arrived at in total disregard or 
the legal principles which have been so well established , as to the weight to be 
given to circumstantial evidence and how to arrive at the findings on that basis . 
In this connection he drew our attention to the case veported in A , I, R . 1952 
S . C . 343 (Hanumat Govind Nargundkar and another v . State of Madhya Pra 
desh ) which was a criminal case , and the one reported in A . I . R . 1954 S . C . 93 
( Shri Baru Ram V . Smt. Prasanni and ors. ) which dealt with an election case . 
He further a gued that the Tribunal arrived at its findings on mere tentative pro 
babilities and not on what he found to have happened and placed before us in this 
connection the case reported in A . I. R . 1957 S . C . 444 (Harish Chandra Bajpai 
and anr, v . Triloki Singh and another ) . 

The learned coungel discussed the evidence only in reference to few meetings, - - 
such as those held at Fakirganj, Bholdbari and the like and submitted that evidence 
was to inadequate to support the finding arrived at by the learned Tribunal. He 
further argued that there was no onus on the defendant to disprove the truth of 
the allegations made and that the Tribunal bad wrongly shifted the onus to Amjad 
Ali. 

Mr. R . K . Bose who appeared in support of the appellants in F . A . 39 / 58, had , 
apart from relying on the arguments advanced by Mr, N , C . Chatterjee , added few 
more objections, criticising the correctness of the judgment of the Tribunal. His 
first contention was that the allegations in the petition were oo vague to be 
relied on and were not the compulance with the provisions of section 83 ( 1 ) ( b ) of 
the Representation of the People Act . ( This point has been averred by Mr. Ghose 
also who argued the appellant s case in the other appeal by way of reply . ) Mr. 
Boge further argued that the Tribunal has not given definite finding as to what 
part of the allegations he considered to be substantiated and what part not. The 
Member of the Tribunal according to the counsel, - had nowhere found categorically 
as to what part of the petitioner s case he believed to be absolutely true and 
where the corrupt practice was considered to have been committed by the appellants 
along with Amjad Al . He criticised that the judgment under appeal was a 
" cumulative judgment " which was not in keeping with the provisions of law . The 
Tribunal ought to have, in the opinion of the learned counsel, expressed definite 
opinion as to the truth or otherwise of each of the allegations made against the 
appellants in respect of each of the meetings as mentioned in the petition in 
paragraphs 10 and 15 and not arrive at an over - all Anding disregarding the 
details. In this connection he drew our attention to a recent decision of the 
Allahabad High Court in an election matter , reported in AIR . 1959 All . 284 
(Ghayar Ali Khan v . Keshav Gupta ) . - where the learned Judges observed 48 
tollows : 
" If the different instances have not been sufficiently proved , there can be 

no decision against the appellant that the cumulative effect of the 
evidence is that at some places or the other he or his workers or 
supporters must haye committed the corrupt practice ." 


Saa 8 (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26, 1959 / AŞVINA 4 , 1881 2457 


IJ 


Mr. Bose further argued that there is no mention in the judgment appealed 
from as to what evidence the learned Tribunal relled on , either oral or documentary, 
for the purpose of arriving at a finding prejudicial to Jahanuddin Ahmed and 
Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar . The learned Member of the Tribunal it was contended , - 
had given no weight to the judgment that was already passed and existed in the 
Election Petition No. 26 of 1957 which was decided by Mr. B . C . Barua acting as 
the Election Tribunal on 8th May , 1958 in favour of Jahanuddin Ahmed in which 
similar or the self same allegations were levelled against him and Sahadat All 
whose election was challenged by Md, Bazıui Basit. Ine learned counsel further 
urged that no attempt has been made by the Tribunal to appreciate the evidence in 
their proper perspective , or weight them as such , but proceeded to judge everything 
on an assumption that the burden of proving innocence reated on the appellant 
in this case , and that it lay heavily on them . 


Mr. Labiri- - the Advocate General appearing for respondent Nazmul Haque 
tried to support the Andings arrived at by the learned Tribunal against the two 
sets of appellants as correct and his contention mainly has been that Mr, Chatterjee 
was not right in urging that the learned Member of the Tribunal had rejected the 
oral evidence outright, but that he had as a matter of fact utilized the oral evidence 
in conjunction with the circumstantial evidence as well as the documentary 
evidence for the purpose of coming to the Hindings which he had subsequently 
arrived at. Another point argued with great force was that this court should be 
cautious in the matter of interfering with the findings arrived at by the trial 
court who had the chance of seeing the witnesses and noticing their demenour . In 
this connection he drew our attention to some rulings or case laws to which I 
might refer later . His another contention was that it is for the appellants to 
convince this court that the findings of the first court were definitely wrong on 
the face of it and that there was no evidence in their support. It must be said to 
the credit of Mr. Lahiri that he took suficient pains to place before us systematically 
the oral as well as the documentary evidence in this case and tried to show that 
there was enough evidence in support of the findings arrived at by the learned 
Tribunal. He further tried to repudiate the contention that the learned Member 
of the Tribunal did not apply his mind to the evidence in this case or that the 
loferences drawn by him were wrong. He put great emphasis on the fact that 
Mr, Amjad Ali himself having admitted that the prejudicial matters were discussed 
in some of the meetings arranged and organised by his party - and he himself took 
part in the same, the learned Tribunal was correct in presuming against him as 
to the nature of discussion , since the defendant had denied the holding of those 
meetings in bis written statement. This candidate , it was argued by Mr. Lahiri, was 
not out to tell the truth and therefore the inferences drawn against him to the 
erfect that he appealed to the communal passion of the Muslims to support him 
In view of the attempted legislations that were admitted to be prejudicial to the 
Muslim interest, were perfect y legitimate . Mr. Lahiri placed greater emphasis 
rather on the alleged admissions of the defendant Amjad Ali than on the case made 
by the petitioner Nazmul Haque and his witnesses . The learned Advocate General, 
however, did not try to meet the point raised on behalf of the appellants on the 
basis of the recent Allahabad case reported in A . I. R . 1959 A11 , 264 (Gbayar Ali 
Khan v . Keshav Gupta ) which laid down that a discussion on matters of religion 
or connection legislation by themselves might not amount to canvassing on communal 
lines , because it might as well be a discussion on the policy of the Government or 
of a party which might come up for consideration or deliberation in some public 
meetings even in relation to the elections. Mr. Lahiri further argued that where 
both the parties adduced evidence , it was not necessary for the court to hold on 
which party the burden of proof lay, but the court could come to a finding on 
the basis of the evidence as led in court, and on this point he relied on the case 
reported in A . I. R . 1958 Assam 51 (Abdul Jalll Choudhury v . Rathindra Nath Sen ). 


Mr. Lahirl did not press that there was canvassing on communal lines in more 
than about sixteen meetings, about which he placed the evidence before us. In 
regard to the rest , inclusive of the Bhaldbari meeting, he thought it fit not to press 
the evidence or for a finding against the defendants . He further opposed the con 
tention raised on behalf of the appellants that strict proofs of the corrupt practices 
alleged are necessary as in criminal cases , but he has, on the other hand argued 
that it was open to the court to come to the necessary Anding on the basis of 
evidence led by either party . The defendant and his associates , be argued — could 
not have pleaded that there was no responsibility on them to rebut the allegations 
made by the petitioner . He had in this connection drawn our attention to section 


2458 THE GAZETI E OF INDIA 


SEPTEMBER 20 1959/ ASVINA 4 , 1881 


[Part 11 


80 ( 1 ) of the Representation of the People Act 1951 which laid down the procedure 
for the purpose of election cases, which runs as follows - 
" 90 Procedure before the Tribunal - ( 1 ) Subject to the provisions of this 

Act and of any rules made thereunder, every election petition shall be 
tried by the Tribunal, as nearly as may be, in accordance with the 
procedure applicable under the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 (Act V 
of 1908 ) , to the trial of suits 


It does not appear to us that the learned Member of the Tribunal did go into 
the oral evidence as he ought to have done and weigh or analyse the same for the 
purpose of coming to a reasonable Anding either on the basis of or in conjunction 
with the documentary or other evidence on which he thought At to rely The 
Tribunal did nothing more than give a short synopsis of oral evidenct led by the 
parties without trying to assess its value at any stage Its observation that oral 
evidence on either party sought to place the case sky high is of very little 
importance or utility for the purpose of coming to a reasonable Anding as to the 
allegations made or rebutted , except that it indicated that the evidence was not 
worth acceptance on its face value 

Let me now proceed to assess the value of the oral evidence meeting -wise as 
has been placed before us, and see how far the finding of the learned Member of 
the Tribunal to the effect that religious or communal feelings were exploited at 
all the meetings by the appellants is justified 

The first public meetings by the Praja Socialist Party was alleged to be held 
on the 12th January 1 $ 57 at Gauripur Gohata within Gaur pur Constituency which 
was alleged to be presided over by Jahanuddin Ahmed and addressed by Amjad 
Ali , Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar, Shanti Roy and others Amjad Ali was alleged to 
have spoken about a bill seeking to ban burial of dead bodies of Muslims and forc 
ing them to burnt and that it was he who had it kept in abeyance and that if he 
were not returned to the Parliament that bill would become law and would be a 
great blow on the religious rights of the Muslims He was also alleged to have 
commented adversely on the Ramdhun song that was being sung in some of the 
schools and it being based on Hindu religious ideologics , was prejud cial to the 
Muslim sentiment Jahanuddin Ahmed who was the president, was also alleged to 
have spoken on communal lines and exhibited some photographs which 
showed some Muslim bodies alleged to be burnt at Marishbar and produced 
some burnt pages of the Holy Quoran alleged to be burnt in the same 
incident and attributed all these to the Congress Party and appealed to the 
voters to refrain from yoting for the Congress candidate , Nazmul Haque These 
were the main allegations There was no specific allegation against Bibhuti 
Bhusan Sarkar , except that he was also alleged to have spoken on the 
same communal lines Amjad Ali in his written statement denied the 
Assertions as well as the meeting, but in his deposition admitted that 
there was a meeting in which he and some of his associates spoke 
but not on communal lines , nor did he seek to exploit the religious communal 
sentiments of the Muslims or the audience as a whole Nazmul Haque nad deposed 
categorically that he had no personal knowledge or contemporaneous information 
about what was spoken in any of these meetings and the series of the allegations 
mentioned in his petition for setting aside the election ( which I shall hereafter 
call — the petition ) were on the basis of reports from persons mostly unnamed and 
few though named , were not given any definite parts as to what reports they made 
and when There were several of the petitioner s witnesses who deposed about the 
subjects discussed in this meeting and they all spoke from memory repeuting parrot 
wise PW 28 Safaruddin Sarkar who was sometime back an Assistant Sub 
Inspector of Police but dismissed from service - admitted to have been working for 
the Congress in the last General Election as well as for the petitioner Nazmul Haque 
He supported the allegations roughly as stated in the petition , - but he admitted that 
it was all from memory and he had kept no notes about them He claims to have 
1 eported the matter to Abdul Bari P , W 32 who was one of the candidates for 
the Assembly constituency - Congress ticket, -- but the latter claimed to have no 
knowledge about the Praja Socialist Party meeting at Gauripur Gohata except 
some verbal reports from some of his workers including PW 28 Safaruddin about 
which he kept no note nor informed anybody higher up in the Congress hierarchy. 


The next witness is PW 29 Moksed All who claimed to be a jot -dar or a tenure 
holder He also supported P W 28 Safaruddin Sarkar as to the speeches made by 
defendant and Jahanuddin and claimed to have reported the matter to Abdul Bari 
PW 32 , the petitioner and one Kumar Sahib , - none of whom however supports 
him as to his alleged report of his presence in the meeting The main challengo 


SEC . 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 /ASVINA 4 , 1881 2459 
- - -- - - - - - 

- _ 
about him was that he did not attend the meeting at all and he ascribed to Amjad 
Ali speaking about the ban on cow slaughter, which however was not the case made 
In the petition itself . 

P . W . 30 Md. Forekuddin is another witness for the petitioner who alleged that 
Amjad Ali said that Congress had banned cow sacrifce and an attempt was made 
by the Congress Government to prevent burial of the ded by the Muslims. He is 
alleged to be Abdul Barl s first cousin and he did not on his own admission convey 
to anybody what he heard in that meeting . 

Another witness is Isaf Khan P . W . 31. He appeared in the court without 
summons and according to him the Praja Socialist Party meeting o Gauripur 
commenced at about 4 P . M ., whereas P . W . 30 Md. Forekuddin stated the meeting 
to have started after the evening prayer . Isar Khan does not either seem to 
be very literate and be speaks of Marishbari as Jalukbari and did not remember 
the Ramdhun geet which he described as certain song . He was not very definite 
about the date of the meeting at Gauripur which by itself was not much , but hig 
deposition does not convince one that he was actually present or he had followed 
what was discussed therein , 

.PW . 45 Abdul Kalam Azad was another witness who spoke about the Praja 
Socialist Party meeting at Gauripur Gohata . According to him several persons 
including Amjad Ali, Jahanuddin and Bibhuti Sarkar addressed the meeting and 
It was discussed in that meeting that cow killing had been stopped which was 
aga .nst Muslim religion . It was also stated that it was given out in that meeting 
that a law preventing Muslims from burying their dead bodies was in the offing . 
He was holding at the time of deposition an appointment as a teacher in the Gauri 
pur High Madrana , of which Abdul Bari, the Congress candidate from Gauripur 
Assembly seat was the Secretary of the Managing Committee. He said that Ramdhun 
geet was not sung in the school where he was working , even though it was discussed 
In the meeting of the Praja Socialist Party at Gauripur, He claimed to have read 
from quoran Sharif an extract at the nstance of Jahanuddin though he did not 
know the meaning of the words he read . He was one of the witnesses for Abdul 
Bari in the election case that he brought after his deleat. 

This in substance is all the evidence on behalf of the petitioner as to the 
Praja Socialist Party meeting at Gauripur . As against this, there was the evidence 
on behalf of the defendant given by D .Ws. 16 and 17 . D . W . 16 Sabuddin Ahmed 
who came from a distance of about two miles from Gauripur, said that the Praja 
Socialist Party meeting was held in Hagh and not in Pous as alleged by the 
petitioner He supported the fact that Amjad All, Jahanuddin and Bibhuti Şarkar 
spoke in that meeting and there was discussion in the meeting about the law 
regarding cow protection , at the instance of some of the persons present in the 
meeting including the witness who put certain questions to the speaker to know 
what was the state of law at that time. According to him Amjad Ali said that the 
law had been applied to some parts of Assam , but at the same time he explalned 
that there was no total ban , cow sacrifice being allowed in Idd days and permission 
for slaughter of the cows had to be obtained for killing cows above fourteen years 
of age. He does not say that there was any appeal to the Muslims on the ground 
of religion or community and he denied the suggestion that anybody read from 
Quoran any extract in that meeting . He also spoke from memory . 

The next witness was Basiruddin Ahmed DW . 17 who was a teacher in the 
Islamic Madrasa at Jhograrpar and a member of the Managing Conniittee of the 
Gauripur Mosque He spoke about the meeting of the Praja Socialist Party at 
Gauripur and he supported Shabuddin that some members of the audience requested 
Amjad All to explain the laws about the protection of cows. Amjad Ali said that 
the cattle over fourteen years of age could be slaughtered with permission and 
cow sacrifice was permitted on Idd days. 


The Stand taken by Amjad Ali was that at some of the meetings but not at 
Gauripur Gohata which he addressed on 25th January , 1957 , Cattle Preservation 
Act was discussed . He stated that he and his party mostly discussed local problems 
and social needs — and in the election meetings he spoke about his activities in the 
Parliament also . He admitted that the Cattle Preservation Act was discussed at 
meetings at Fakirganj, Jaleswar, Chụnari, South Salmara and Goalerchar. He 
stated as follows:- - 
" In all these meetings questions were asked about it . The questioner wanted 

to know by which Legislature this Act had been passed , its implica 
tion and the area to which it applied I told them that this Act had 
been passed by State Legislature. * * * * * Assam Cattle Preserva 
tion Act had been passed in 1951. It was not given effect to till the 


2460 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959/ ASVINA 4, 1881 


(PART II 


Arst of August 1966 . I told all this to the people and explained the 
provisions of the Act, stating that cow or buffaloes above 14 years of age 
could be slaughtered with the permission of the competent authority 
I told them that the Act did not apply during the three days o 
Idd - u -zuha . I also told them that its application was limited to the 

plain areas of Assam " 
This I have quoted only to show that even if it be accepted as is deposed to by 
his witnesses D Ws. 16 and 17 that there was discussion about the Cattle Preserva 
tion Act - according to the defendant it did not go very far, Mr. Amjad Ali 
derues the allegations against him in the following words. - - 


" During my election campaign I made no appeal to the voters On religious 

or communal grounds nor did my supporters I and my supporters 
never said that Congress Government and Congress Party had banned 
the cow sacrifice or cow slaughter and they had thus interfered with 
the religious rights of the Muslims I deny that I or my supporters 
appealed to Muslims on any religious and communal grounds for 
voting in my favoui or voting against the petitioner No one from 
my supporters including iyself canvassed for support from voters 
on the basis that Ramdhun geet was being compulsorily introduced 
in schools not did we state that Muslims will have to cremate their 
dead We did not tell any one that Muslims will have to worship 
Tulsi plant and that Jumma prayers would be shifted from Friday 
to Sunday . We never said that Azan would be banned or that 
Muslim women shall have to put vermillion on their forehead We 
did not say that the Congress was Hinduising the Muslims. There 
was no such thing said by any one of us that Islam was in danger 
under Congress rule There was no exhibition of Holy Quoran in 
any meeting nor was any text read from it. I and my supporters 
never stated that houses of Muslims in Marichbarı were burnt at the 

instance or instigation of the Congrees." 
In the petition [ vide paragraph 10 ( x ) there was no mention that Amjad Ali spoke 
about the Cattle Preservation Act in the meeting at Gauripur Gohata The evid 
ence is typical and practically this is the type of the evidence led in connexion 
with other meetings also From the evidence as I have already discussed, it is 
very different to be certain that there was preaching on communal lines or that 
there was an appeal to the Muslim audicnce either for voting or for refraining 
trom voting There was no dependable report about what happened in the meet 
ng , from any of the petitioners witnesses , as I have already shown It is not 
aifficult to procure partisan witnesses by any of the parties Incidents of meet 
ings alleged to be held on 2nd and 10th February as described at sub - paragraphs 
( Xi ) and ( xii) of paragraph 10 of the petition were not pressed . 

The next meeting of the Praja Socialist Party spoken about at sub -para 
graph ( xull ) of paragraph 10 of the petition was held on 14th February , 1157 at 
Goalerchar LP School an area alleged to be exclusively inhabited by Muslims. 
in that meeting it was alleged that Jahanuddin Ahmed and Amjad Ali spoke 
accus.ng the Congress Government of enforcing by law stoppage of cow sacrifice 
and cow slaughter and of burial of Muslim dead bodies . It was further alleged 
that the Congress was trying to ban Azan and Namaj and were enforcing compul 
pory singing of Ramdhun geet and as such appealed to the religious sentiment of 
the Musīıms not to vote for the Congress Party and to support the Praja Socialist 
Party candidates . Three witnesses were examined by the petitioner in support 
of these allegations P . W .42 Goisuddin Munshi alleged that Amjad Ali and 
Jahannudin while addressing the meeting, spoke to the audience that the congress 
had stopped cow sacrifice which was against the Muslim religion and if Cong ) ess 
was voted to power , they would stop burial of their dead bodies and that teachers 
and students will have to sing the Ramdhun geet He however took no note of 
what was said in the meeting nor did he report to anybody about what he had 
heard . 

PW 43 Mokbul Hussain was the next witness who was a teacher of a private 
school aged about 22 years and claimed to have attended the Praja Socialist Party 
meeting at Goalarchar The meeting was held in the afternoon and even though 
it would be usually his working hours, he said that the school was held that day 
on the morning. He alleged that Amjad Ali said that the Congress had been in 
power for a long time and that their principles were objectionable They had 
banned cow - slaughter and cow sacrifice and if instead of voting for the Congress 
tne Praja Socialist Party were put in power, all these could be prevented . He 
claimed to have asked Umaruddin and Moksed All about the implication of the 


SEO. 3 (ü )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959/ASVINA 4, 1881 2461 


Cattle Preservation Act at his own inutiative and that shows that Muslims were 
generally inquisitive about that Act. He does not cla . m to have reported about 
what he heard to anybody in the Congress Circle or to the petitioner or his agent. 
He admitted that Ramdhun geet was not sung in his school. 

P . W . 44 Nurul Islam in a way supported the stand taken by Amjad Ali. He 
deposed that Amjad Ali spoke in his presence and before he could say anything , 
the people present wanted to know whether it is true that the Congress had 
stopped cow sacrifice . He admitted that in his locality there was no singing of 
Ramdhun geet in schools . It was further alleged that he was a paid worker of 
the Congress and he worked for Moksed Ali whch however he denied . Accord 
ing to him he incidentally dropped at the meeting and had gone away before the 
ineeting was concluded 

Amjad Ali examined two witnesses in regard to this meeting, they were DW8, 9 
and 10 . D . W . 9 Maulvi Taheruddin claimed that he was the Imam of the prayer 
and he attended the Praja Socialist Party meeting at Goalerchar . He stated that 
Amjad and Jahanuddin spoke in the meeting about the rights of the tenants on 
land - laws. Someone from the meeting asked Amjad Ali about the prohibition of 
cow slaughter by the Government of Assam to which Amjad Ali replied that 
cow slaughter was permitted for three days during the Idd und that permission 
had to be obtained for slaughter of cows for other purposes , but these should 
be above fourteen years of age. 

D . W . 10 Monsabuddin also spoke about this meeting . He said that Amjad Ali 
did not say that cow slaughter had been banned . He admitted however , that it 
Cow slaughter was banned , it would interfere with the Islam religion and Amjad 
Ali also so said . He further supported the other witness for the defendant that 
Amjad and Jahanuddin addressed the mell ng mainly on Tenancy laws and 
stressed that there was need for an opposition party in the Assembly . 

From the evidence as above stated, it is very difficult to be certain that there 
was appeal to Muslim sentiment on the ground of prohibition of killing of cowg 
or that Arnjad and his associates tried to exc.te the Muslim feeling against the 
Congress for enforcil15 the Cattle Preservation Act passed long since. The diff 
culty is that there is nr authentic report from any reliable witness and petitioner s 
witnesses only repeated the allegations, apart from saying what were the items 
actually discussed in the meeting and there was no report on their own showing 
about what they had heard or that these people had any conspicuous place in 
Society or had actually been present in the meeting, 

It was alleged in paragraph 10 ( v ) of the petition that a public meeting was 
held at Chunari Bazar within the South Salmara Constituency on 21st January , 
1057 and it was addresscd by Amjad Ali, Jahanuddin , Bibhuti Sarkar and others . 
Amjad Ali was alleged to have characterised the singing of Ramdhun geet as anti 
Islamic and that he had attempted to stop singing of the same by the Muslim 
teachers and students . He further said that the Congress Government in Assam 
had brought into force a law banning cow slaughter and cow sacrifice in the 
Pla . n Districts of Assam where Muslims predominated . This amounted to an 
encroachment upon the religious rights and freedom of the Muslims. Jahanuddin 
Ahmed was alleged to have said of burning of Holy Quoran in the Marishbari 
incident. T he defendant denied the allegations, — though in his deposition in court 
he stated that he attended th . s meeting but that there was no canvassing on 
communal lines . 


The two witnesses cxamined in support of the petitioner s case are P .Ws, 17 
und 18 . P . W . 17 Shamsul Haque says that Amjad Ali was present in that meeting 
and that Jahanuddin and Bibhuti Sarkar also spoke. Bibhuti Sarkar first address 
ed the meeting and then the respondent — who spoke about the bill prohibiting 
bur. al of Muslim dead bodies and the ban imposed on cow - slaughter. He is also 
a District delegate of the Congress and canvassed for the Congress during the 
last election . From what this P . W . spoke there does not seem to be anything 
prejudicial in the speech delivered by Amjad Ali. 


P . W . 18 Abdul Bari who was a teacher of the Government aided school, speaks 
of Amjad Ali addressing the meeting and Jahanuddin speaking next. He alleged 
that Jahanuddin spoke about cow sacrifice and that Islam was in danger if the 
Congress party was voted to power . He lleged that Amjad Ali said in the meet 
ing that a bill was introduced by the Congress party in Parliament for preventing 
burial of the dead by the Muslims and that he had succeeded in getting the bill 
thrown out. He further stated that congress had prohibited cow slaughter by 
legislation and that Muslim boys were compelled to sing Ramdhun geet, which 


2462 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEP I EMBER 26, 1959 / ASVINA 4 , 1881 


[PART II 


action interfered with the religious belief of the Muslims. He came from a dis 
tance of about two miles from the place where the meeting was held . He claims 
to have reported the substance of the speeches to Nazmul Haque and Baziul Basit 
but the petitioner does not support him and Bazlul Basit himself was not examin 
ed . His statement therefore goes uncorroborated and is hardly trustworthy, 

D .Ws. 25 and 26 were examined by Amzad Ali D . W . 25 Gopal Chandra Shaha 
who claims to be the Secretary of the Primary Congress Committee of Chunari 
for the last three years , admitted to be present in that meeting and according to 
him , Amjad , Jahanuddin and Bibhuti Şarkar did not speak of any prejudicial 
matter in the meeting . The gist of the speeches was that there was urgent need 
for an opposition and that the disparity in wealth and property had become greater 
after the independence . There was further talk about the Goalpara Tenancy 
Act and about the protection of the tenant in the district of Goalpara . D . W . 26 
B . N . Chakraverty stated that there were three hundred people in the meeting 
and Amjad Ali was asked about the implication of the Cattle Preservation Act, 
He said that cow sacritice was permissible if the cow is more than fourteen year 
old and permission for a cow sacrifice was obtained. He said further that there 
was not restriction on sacrifice of cow on the three days of Idd . He said that 
the law was for the good of the people . 

In this connection the petitioner has placed on record a copy of the notice of 
a hand bill about the meeting at Chunari Bazar by the Praja Socialist Party 
held on 21st January , 1957 ( Ext. P . 10 ) and it was indicated in the hand bill that 
Tenancy laws and subjects like abolition of Zamındaries, Cattle Preservation Act 
and various other subjects and informations important to the general public about 
these laws and other matters would be discussed in that meeting . The public 
was requested to join the meeting in crowds for the purpose of making a decision 
about the future conditions of the general public and for future line of action . It 
was notified in that hand bill that Maulvi Amjad Ali would spcak about his activi 
ties during the last five years and specially regarding some local matters . The 
signatories included Jahanuddin Ahmed and the date of the meeting was given as 
21st January , 1957, 

It was urged by the learned Advocate General for Nazmul Haque that since 
the subject of Cattle Preservation Act was publicly notified to be discussed , it 
must have been w . th a view to prejudice the public or the audience against the 
Congress . Even though a discussion of the subject is admitted , it is very difficult 
to assume that the discussion was all the wrong way or was calculated to rouse 
the communal or religious sentiments of the Muslims. There is nothing to sug 
gest that the meeting was intended only for the Muslim audience , it being a 
public meeting and there being evidence that the Bazar area was inhabited mostly 
by Hindu traders and shopkeepers . 

We next come to the meeting held at Jaleshwar on 20th January , 1957. The 
allegations contained in the petition were that the said meeting was addressed by 
Amjad , Jahabuddin Ahmed, Bibhuti Sarkar and others, Amjad Ali was alleged 
to nave spoken about the banning of cow sacrifice and cow slaughter and he com 
plained that he got no support in this matter from any of the local Muslim Con 
gress Members of the local Assembly , when he approached them in this behalt. 
He further spoke about Ramdhun geet and about the bill intended for banning 
burial of Muslim dead bodies . Jahanuddin is alleged to have spoken about 
Marishbari inc.dent on production of a half burnt copy of the Holy Quoran . 
Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar was alleged to have re - echoed the same sentiments as 
expressed by the other two speakers . Petitioner produced in this connection five 
witnesses, they being P .Ws. 4 , 5 , 14 , 15 and 16 . 

P . W . 4 Abdul Hussai Mandal was a teacher in the Government aided school 
and on his own admission , an active member of the Congress . He was a district 
delegate to the Goalpara Zilla Congress Committee. He alleged that Amjad Ali, 
Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar and Jahanuddin spoke in that meeting. Amjad Ali spoke 
about his own achievements in Parliament and he claimed to have taken up the 
matter of Ramdhun geet with the Government. He further said that thcre was 
& bill for the prohibition of bwrial of deal bodies but it did not become law because 
of his opposition . He also referred to the Cattle Preservation Act and said that 
Government had prohibited the Muslims from slaughtering the cows before the 
age of fourteen years . It has also prescribed that for slaughter of cows above 
fourteen years permission from the authorities will have to be obtained . He 
stated that the laws of Congress Government were leading to great troubles for 
the Muslims. It was therefore in their interest to strengthen the hand of the 
opposition . He concluded by saying that they should vote mature consideration , 
The meeting was attended by both Hindus and Muslims. Even if the statement 


Suc . 8 (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26, 1959 / ASVINA 4, 


2463 


made by this witness be taken as a whole and correct , it would make out no cage 
of corruption under section 123 ( 3 ) of the Representation of the People Act 
because Amjad Ali is reported to have spoken about the inconveniences caused 
by the Cattle Preservation Act and he made no attempt to misinterpret the Act. 
There is nothing in the deposition of this witness which would induce one to 
accept that Amjad Ali appealed to religious passion , Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar and 
Jahanuddin are stated to have said about Ramdhun geet and the Marishbari 
incident. 

P . W . 5 Siddiq Hussain was a student aged about nineteen years . He depoges 
to have heard only Sahadat Ali and Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar speaking and even 
though Amjad Ali and Jahanuddin were present in the meeting , he did not see 
them addressing the audience. He deposed that he did not tell anybody what 
he heard in that mecting and all that he remembered about the meeting was the 
Praja Socialist Party speakers preached total ban on Cow slaughter . He saw 
Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar for the first time in that meeting and recognised Amjad 
Ali long after , that is 21st October , 1957. 

P . W . 14 Hazi Raisuddin Ahmed spoke about this meeting at Joleswar. He was 
a Local Board Mohorir . According to him Bibhuti Sarkar first addressed the 
meeting and he spoke about preventing burial of the dead bodies of the Muslims 
and about the Ramdhun gect introduced in schools. Amjad Ali was the last 
Bpeaker and he was alleged to have spoken on the subject of Marishbari and 
claimed that he brought relicf to the sufferers. He further spoke that a bill being 
introduced in Parliament for stopping of burial of dead bodies and that it was 
for his opposition that the bill was thrown out. He in substance supported other 
speakers who spoke about Ramdhun geet and the action of the Government in the 
matter of preventing the cow slaughter . He claims to have reported what he 
heard , to one Bazlu ) Basit - - a candidate for the State Assembly - - and to Fakaruddin 
Ali Ahmed , but none of these persons was examined in court, nor was there any 
independent support as to his report . He claimed himself to be a past supporter 
of the Muslim League in which connection he was arrested in 1945 - 46 . Now , 
a Congress worker and a district delegate in the Goalpara District Committee . 
He deposed to have attended a Congress Election Meeting which was held a few 
days after , but he was not sure about the date of the meeting nor did he remember 
that the speakers in the Congress meetings spoke. He seemed to be cut out as 
a witnes for the Praja Socialist Party meeting. 

The next witness was P . W . 15 Lalmia who gives the date of the meeting as 
8th March , while the petitioner s case is that the meeting was held on 20th 
January , 1957. He further admits himself to be an active member of the Congress 
and President of the Primary Committee and a district delegate . He did not 
descrlbe categorically what the speakers spoke individually but gave his impres 
xion about the meeting where the Praja Socialist candidates were telling the 
audience that it they voted for the Congress, they will act in a manner prejudicial 
to the interest of the Muslim religion , There is no mention in the petition about 
any meeting of Jaleswar being held by the Praja Socialist Party people in 
March , 1957. 

Abdul Kashem P .W . 16 is another witness who spoke about this meeting at 
Jaleswar alleged to be held on 20th January , at the instance of, Amjad Ali, 
Jahanuddin and others. According to him Sahadat Ali and Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar 
were the leading speakers and Jahabuddin followed next. In one sentence he 
accused Amjad Ali- - " The respondent then got up and told the listeners that 
burning of the dead bodies of Muslims had been stopped and this shall continue 
unless the Praja Socialist Party were supported ." The mis - statement is obvious. 
He does not speak of any communal propaganda. 

Amjad Ali examined two defence witness - D . W . 28 Dulal Chandra Haldar and 
D . W . 29 Ajmat Ali. Dulal Chandra Haldar stated that in the meeting held at 
Joleswar Amjad Ali on being asked by somebody from the audience as to whether 
any law existed prohibiting cow slaughter respondent that there was no ban on 
cow slaughter during the four or five days of Idd but on other occasions cows 
could be slaughtered only with the permission if the cattle were more than four 
teen years old . He further stated that there were other subjects discussed in 
the meeting and cow slaughter by itself did not form a subject for discussion . 

Ajmat Ali, the next defence witness deposed to the effect that Bibhuti Sarkar , 
Amjad Ali and Jahanuddin all spoke in the meeting at Joleswar and subjects 
discussed in the meeting were various and of local interest . Amjat on being asked 
by somebody from the audience said that there was no restriction on killing of 
cows for three days during Idd but on other days it was possible only with permis 
glon from competent authorities . 


2464 


GA 


CE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 28, 1959 /ASVINA 4, 1881 


PART 1 


On this state of evidence it is very difficult to hold that there was any appeal 
to communal sentiment on the ground of ban on killing of cows and there were 
no other allegations against defendant Amjad All or the other two appellants. 
The evidence on either side followed the usual pattern - all based on memory and 
in no way authenticated . 

It was alleged in paragraph 10 ( iv ) of the petition that in South Salmara Bazar 
there was a meeting of the Praja Socialist Party on the 23rd January , 1957. Amjad 
All was alleged to have spoken condemning vehemently the alleged anti - Islamic 
activity of the Congress Government and Congress Party such as , - prohibiting 
cow slaughter , attempting to stop burial of Muslim dead bodies and compulsory 
ginging of Ramdhun geet by the Muslim teachers and students in schools. He 
appealed to the religious feelings of the Muslim audience not to vote for the 
congresg and supported the Praja Socialist Party Petitioner s witnesses in this 
behalf were three , — they being P .Ws. 9 , 10 , and 11 . 

P . W . 9 Dulichand Agarwalla spoke about the South Salmara meeting on a 
certain Wednesday and he was not sure about the date except that the meeting 
was held about a month before the polling in the last General Election . In that 
meeting Amjad Ali, Jahanuddin and Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar were stated to have 
taken part. Amjad Ali spoke to the audience that the Congress Government 
which is in power, have legisleted for preservation of the cattle and have prohibit 
ed cow slaughter . He had tried in Delhi to have this repealed but did not suc 
ceed . Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar also spoke about the prohibition of cow slaughter 
and said that it interfered with the religious rights of the Muslims: He spoke to 
the audience also of an attempt by Congress Party to pass a law prohibitions 
burial of the Muslim dead . On the face of it, the evidence does not disclose that 
there was any appeal by Amtad Ali to Muslim sentiments on the ground of Inter 
ference with their religion . He further said that the Bazar area had many Hindu 
shops-- and the audience was a mixed crowd - he himself being a Hindu . He 
remembered Just what was necessary for the case and remembered nothing more . 
Gendu Mandal PW . 10 was the next witness to speak about this meeting. He 
does not say anything about what Amjad Ali spoke. He saw Bibhuti Bhusan 
Sarkar addressing the audience and he is alleged to have produced a book and 
told the audience that Congress had prohibited cow slaughter by legislation , They 
have also passed a law preventing Muslims from burving their dead . He also 
referred to the Morishbari incident and said that Congressmen had hurnt the 
houses of Muslims and had driven them away . He stated that he met Duli Chand 
P . W . 9 and he told him ( Duli Chand) that the Praja Socialist Party were putting 
up their own case before the people but he was prepared to see what the other 
side had to say. The witness did not say that there was any appeal to religious 
or communal sentiment and to vote on the basis thereof, 

P . W . 11 Palam Dewani was the other witness. He alleged that Amtad Ali 
spoke about cow slaughter and that it had been practically stopped . They could 
be slaughtered only with the permission of the authorities and that children were 
being made to sing Ramdhun . He stated that one Abdul Karim questioned Amjad 
Ali on behalf of the public and he spoke about the Ramdhun geet. Abdul Karim 
Is stated to have intimated their objection to the singing of the Ramdhun as un 
Islamic . 

Taking the evidence of all these three witnesses together , very little lg proved 
against Amjad Ali as to the allegation of making a communal speech or that an 
attempt was made on behalt of the Praja Socialist Party to exploit any communal 
feeling by virtue of prejudicial propaganda . 

Amjad Ali examined two witnessesD. W . 14 Asmatullah Bepari and D . W . 10 
Khudabox Mandal. Asmatullah Bepari was a man aged about sixty - two years 
And he was the Secretary of the South Salmara High School. He attended the 
Prata Socialist Party meeting at South Salmara whirh was addressed by Bibhuti 
Sarkar , Amjad Ali and Jahanuddin , According to him the speeches related to 
increased of sales tax and other measures and it was only on being asked by 
Abdul Karim that Amjad Ali explained that it was true that cow slaughter had 
been banned and that though the Art had heen passed long ago , it had been enforc 
pd in that year . He explained further that there was no restriction on cow 
Blaughter for three days of Idd and on other days cattle above fourteen years 
could be slaughtered with permission . The speaker further added that the legis 
Tation has not interfered with the Muslim religion . Jahanuddin spoke about 
tenancy law . D . W 15 Khudabux Mandal, aged about fifty -eight years and a 
member of the Congress Party was an agent of Nazmul Hoque and Bazlul Basit 
at Salmara polling booth . He spoke about the Praja Socialist Party meeting and 
rupported Asmatullah Bepart that it was on being asked by Abdul Karim Mandal 


Sac . 8 (IN ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 28 , 1969 /A , 


4, 


3465 


that Amjad All spoke about the Cattle Preservation Act. He stated further that 
cow sacrifice was not altogether stopped , it being permitted during the Idd days 
and slaughter of cows above fourteen years of age was permitted with the sanc 
tion of the authorities . It is difficult to say from the evidence that any case was 
made out against the defendant or his associates for making prejudicial speeches , 

We next consider the meeting at Fakiraganj. It is alleged in paragraph 10 ( 1 ) 
of the petition that there was a meeting of the Praja Socialist Party on the 16th 
January, 1957 at Fakirgan ). Ext. P . 1 was the hand bill signed by Jahanuddin 
Ahmed and others . It was stated there that a general election meeting was going 
to be held at Fakirganj on 16th January , 1957 at the instance of the Praja 
Socialist Party . The hand bill indicated that there will be discussion in the meet 
ing about Tenancy law , the abolition of Zamindary and Cattle Preservation Act 
and on various other subjects for the information of the general Public about 
those laws. It was further intimated that Maulvi Amjad Ali who had been a 
member of the Parliament for last five years , would speak specially regarding the 
compensation for lands taken for the Bund from Kharmuja to Fakirganj and 
other allied subjects. It was alleged in the petition that the above meeting held 
at Fakirganj was addressed by Amjad Ali, Jahanuddin and others and they all 
systematically appealed to the voters to vote for the Praja Socialist Party and 
refrain from voting in favour of the Congress candidate on religious and commun 
al grounds . It is alleged that Jahanuddin Ahmed took the lead in the meeting 
and in his speech referred to a rioting that took place in February , 1956 at a place 
called Marishbari and it wag at the instance of the Congress Party that some 
Muslim houses were burnt and he himself came to the help of the riot victims. 
At the same meeting Jahanuddin produced a copy of the Holly Quoran and 
explained that the Quoran contained an injunction to the Muslims to sacrifice 
cows but that was prohibited by the Assam Government run by the Congress 
Party . One Maulana Ahmed Ali who was asked to read out the Arabic text, 
protested that the interpretation given by Jahanuddin Ahmed was not correct, 
but the Maulana was not allowed to give his interpretation . Jahanuddin conclud 
ed his speech by saying that for the above reasons and for the safety of the 
religious rights of the Muslims the voters should refrain from voting for the 
Congress and should vote for the Prata Socialist Party candidate . After that 
Amad Ali spoke in support of Jahanuddin Ahmed on the subject of cow sacrifice 
and cow slaughter and further stated that a member of the Parliament belonging 
to the Congress Party wanted to introduce a bill stopping burial of Muslim dead 
hodies and for forcing Muslims to burn the same instead and it was only at his 
Intervention that the said bill was kept in abeyance. He added that if the 
Congress candidate was returned in his place , there would be no opposition to 
such anti - Islamir measures and that the bill would be passed into law . It was 
further alleged that Ramdhun geet which was a Hindu geet and contained religi 
ous ideas, was sacrilegious to the Muslim religion . He appealed to the audience 
faith and freedom it was incumbent on All Muslims to refrain from voting for 
the Congress candidate . Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar supported the above two speak 
ers. This was what was stated in the petition itself but the allegations find a 
poor sunport from the witnesses who were actually examined in court, - - they 
being P .Ws. 12 , 13 and 61. 

PW . 12 Makhonlal Biswas , goldsmith , a Hindu , spoke about this meeting which 
he claimed to have attended . He alleged that Amjad Ali spoke about the Cattle 
Preservation Act and told the audience that cattle under fourteen years of age 
could not be slaughtered and permission of Veterinary Surgeon was necessary 
for the slaughter . It was further alleged that Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar said that 
Congress regime has brought about stoppage of cow sacrifice . He also talked 
about Ramdhun Geet and told the people that it was against Muslim religion . He 
does not refer to Jahanuddin , he heard only Amjad Ali speaking. He admitted 
that the Bazar area consisted of majority of Hindus and several Hindu gentlemen 
attended the meeting . He does not speak of referring to Marishbari affair . 

P . W . 13 Abdus Samad Chaudhary the next witness supports the story given in 
the petition . Jahanuddin is alleged to have spoken ahout the Marishbari incident 
and said that Muslim houses were burnt by the Congress Government. Amjad Ali 
spoke about the Cattle Preservation Act and stated that the Act prohibited sacri 
fice of cowg below the age of fourteen years and permission has also to be obtain 
ed for such sacrifice . He was further alleged to have referred to singing the 
Ramdhun geet at South Salmara which was un - Islamic . In the cross examina 
tion he stated that he was a member of the Congress and that he deposed from 
memory . He kept no note of the speeches . He was a witness also for the defeat 
ed Congress candidate Bazlul Basit in his Election case and in that proceeding 
this witness admitted to have deposed , that he did not attend Fakirganj meeting 


2466 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 /AŞVINA 4 , 1881 


[PART II 


and he must have spoken about some other meeting. This only shows that he 
was a stock - witness and could be produced at pleasure . 

P . W . 61 Prafulla Kumar Chakraverty said that he is a member of the Congress 
Party and was in charge of the South Salmara constituency on behalf of the 
Congress . He claimed to have watched the Praja Socialist Party activity in his 
area and attended the meeting at Fakirgant held by Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar and 
others, who addressed the gathering at the Hat. He stated that this meeting was 
convened in the Fakirganj Hat sometime on the 22nd or 23rd February , 1957 , 
but the particular meeting that formed the subject matter of the allegations con 
tained in the petition was held on 16th January and therefore there is no support 
from this witness as to what was spoken in that meeting. 


D .Ws, 5 and 6 were examined by Amjad Ali in this connection , D . W . 5 
Asharudding Pandit claims to have attended the meeting at Fakirganj where 
Jahanuddin , Amjad Ali, and Bibhuti Sarkar took part. According to him Amjad 
Ali gave a short speech before the dusk . He spoke about other subjects but 
nothing about cow slaughter or any other matter affecting Muslim religion . 
Other speakers spoke about various subtects of social and economic needs . 
D . W , 6 Alimuddin Mollah deposed that Amjad Ali gave an account of his activities 
as a Member of Parliament during the five years previous to the election . 


Taking the entire evidence into consideration , it is very diMcult to say that 
there were any communal speeches based on religious sentiment affecting the 
Muslims or in other words it is very difficult to be sure as to what was actually 
spoken and in what vein , - in the absence of any recorded speech of substance 
of the speeches of the respective speaker. 

The next meeting I would discuss is the Praja Socialist Party meeting at 
Chapor alleged to be held on 3rd March , 1957 referred to in paragraph 10 ( xxlii) 
of the petition . It was alleged in the petition that the meeting was held on 3rd 
March , 1967 in a fleld adjoining the Panchayat office at Chapor . The meeting was 
addressed by Amjad Ali, Jahanuddin , Bibhuti Sarkar and others. Amiad Ali, 
and Jahanuddin Ahmed spoke on the question of cow sacrifice and cow slaughter 
which they alleged the Congress Government had virtually stopped by making 
very stringent law and exhorted the Muslim voters to vote for the Praja Socialist 
Party candidate if they wanted their religious rights to be safeguarded . 

Four witnesses - P .Ws. 19 . 20 . 21 and 22- - were examined by the petitioner on 
his behalf in connexion with this meeting. P . W . 19 N . C . Das is a member of 
the Congress and he attended the meeting convened by the Praja Socialist Party . 
The speakers including Amad Ali, Jahanudd n Ahmed and Bibhuti Bhusan 
Sarkar made two points in the main - -they said that Congress had prohibited cow 
slaughter and cow Sacrifice and interfered with the rights and beliefs of the 
Muslims. Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar spoke about the Ramdhun geet as Anti- Islamic . 
The witness claimed to have protested in the meeting and he sought to explain 
the Cattle Preservation Act but he was not allowed . It is doubtful whether he 
had any idea about the Act . He was a teacher of the Government aided school 
at Chanor of which Sri Sarat Chandra Singh the Congress leader was the Presi 
dent. P . W . 20 Dalim Kumar Medhi was an active member of the Primary 
Congress Committee , and headmaster of the High School of which P . W . 19 wag 
another teacher . He was directly under the influence of the local Congress Presi 
dent and all that he deposed was that the Prata Socialist Party Speakers criticised 
the policy of the Congress Government as anti- Islamic . 

P . W 21 N . C . Roy said that Amjad All, Jahanuddin . Bibhuti Sarkar and some 
others were present in the meeting . The meeting was addressed by these persons 
and all that they said in the meeting was that the Congress party and the Congress 
Government had prohibited cow slaughter by legislation and thus interfered 
with the religious rights of the Muslims. Bibhuti Sarkar is alleged to have poken 
about the Ramdhun geet . The witness admitted to be an active member of the 
Dhubri District Congress Committee and President of the Chapor Congress Com 
mittee . He does not say that there was any appeal to communal sentiment as 
such . It is not their case either that the audience consisted of Muslims, all these, 
witnesses being Hindus. 


P . W 22 Moyzuddin Sarkar is another teacher of the Chapor High School. He 
stated that Amjad Ali said that Congress Government has passed a law regarding 
prohibition of cow slaughter but more things were said bv Jahanuddin and 
Bibhuti Sarkar . He was also a member of the Congress and he did not aftend 
any other meeting except the one he has spoken about. He admitted that neti 
tioner Nazmul Haque was supported by P .Ws. N , C . Das, D . K . Medhi and Narech 


Sec . 9 ( 11) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 /ASVINA 4 , 1881 


2467 


- 


- 


- 


Ch . Roy in his election . It was further stated that that mecting was attended by 
both Hindus and Muslims and it was hardly believable that the speakers would 
keep themselves confined to Muslim interest or rouse the religious sentiment of the 
Muslims against the Hindus. The further fact is that out of the four witnesses , 
threc are members of the Chapar High School with Shri Sarat Singha the 
Congress leader as the President. Even if we believe their statements , they 
would make out no case of communal propaganda There might be incidental 
reference to subjects like cow slaughter or the Cattle Preservation Act , but it 
does not carry us any further in the matter of finding as to the corrupt practice 
alleged . 


D . W . 7 and D . W . 8 spoke about this meeting. D . W . 7 Satish Chandra Nag 
deposed that Amjad Ali, Jahanuddin and Bibhuti Sarkar spoke about tenancy 
law and similar things DW . 8 Abed Ali Sarkar supported him . It is not neces 
sary to assess the value of their evidence. 

We next come to the meeting at Bilasipara Hut on 5th March , 1957 and it is 
covered by sub -paragraph (xx ) of paragraph 10 of the petition . It was alleged 
in the petition that Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar addressed a large gathering at Bilasi 
para Hat on 5th March , 1957 through a Loud speaker and condemned the Con 
gress Government and the Congress Party as the greatest enemy of the Muslim , 
because the Congress Government, he said , had encroached upon the religious 
freedom of Muslims by stopping cow sacrifice and burial of Muslim dead bodies 
and otherwise , interfering with their religious rights . 

Threc witnesses are examined by the petitioner on this point and they are 
P . W . 58 Sahadat Hussai, P . W . 60 Saharali Goonbura and P . W . 62 Mafizuddin . 
Sahadat Hussain is a witness for three of the Praja Socialist Party meetings - one 
at Bilasipara Bazar, another at Bangalipara and still another at Kadamtola . He 
gave no specific dates about any of these meetings and said that at Bilasipara 
Bibhuti alone spoke through a mike to a crowd of 10 / 15 thousand people who 
gathered there . He alleged that he reported these meetings to Umaruddin - Ono 
of the petitioner s prominent witnesses . Ile gets no support in this respect from 
Umaruddin himself. It was a Hat day when Bibhuti is alleged to have addressed 
the meeting and the witness admits that Bibhuti Sarkar stood near a well in the 
Hat. The next witness Saharali Gaonbura ( P . W . 60 ) says that Bibhuti Şarkar 
addressed the people over a mike in the Hat and he does not say that there was 
any meeting convened in a formal way or that there was a definite set of audi 
ence According to him it was at about 7 P .M . that Bibhuti addressed the crowd 
while the witness was in the Hat The other witness is Mafizuddin ( P . W . 62 ) . 
He says that on a Hat day he attended a Praja Socialist Party meeting. He admit 
ted to have come fiom a distance of five miles. He says that he went to the 
llat at 1 P . M , and the nieeting commenced at 4 P . M . He however , does not know 
who the president of the meeting was, but he alleged that Bibhuti spoke from 
ncar the road where there were shops selling betel- nut, vegetable etc . In any 
way the deposition of these witnesses does not give an impression that they 
were actually present in the meeting or that therc was any mccting at all . 
Bibhuti Şarkar himself says that he had been at Bilasipara on the 5th , but that 
he and other members of the party did not make an appeal to the voters on 
religious or communal grounds . D . W . No 3 Bpin Chandra Das proprietor of a 
Pharmacy at Bilasipara Bazar supports him 

I then come to the meeting held at Lakshmiganj Bazar on 4th March , 1957 
and the reference to it is in sub -paragraph ( xxi ) of paragraph 10 in the petition . 
The allegation was that in meeting at Lakshmiganj bazar Jahanuddin , Amjad 
Ali and others addressed the people who gathered at the Hat and appealed to the 
Muslims not to vote for the Congre s candidate on the ground that the Congress 
Government had been responsible for stoppage of cow - slaughter and cow - sacrifice 
and were going to stop burial of Muslims and had introdurrd Ramdhun geet in 
schools as an insult to the Islamic faith These indentical allegations are repeat 
ed for almost all the meetings the Praja Socialist Party held during the election 
campaign . 

Three witnesses P . Ws. 46 , 55 and 56 have been cxamined by the petition in 
tiiis connection . P . W . 46 Panchanan Nath claims to be a member of the local 
Primary Congress Committee and was the president thercof. He went to the 
bazar, he says , - for shopping and heard Ismail Hazı and Bibhuti Sarkar telling 
people that Congress had stopped cow killing and that they will commit more 
mischief if kept in spoke. He claims to have reported the matter to 
the president Sarat Chandra Singha, who however does not support 
him In his cross cxamination he says that there were four or five speakers 
including Amjad Ali and Jahanuddin but there was no president of the meeting 


2 .168 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959/ ASVINA 4 , 1881 


( Parr Is 


P , W . 55 Taleb Ali is aged about 26 . He claims to have attended the meeting 
held at Lakhiganj two days before the polling . He alleged that Amjad Ali and 
his associates had spoken about the Cattle Preservation Act, Ramdhun Geet and 
the possibility of the stoppage of the burial of the dead bodies of the Muslims 
and all the speakers are alleged to have repeated the self - same matter Accord - 
ing to him the meeting was held in the Madrasa about half a furlong off from the 
bazar , He however , admits that he was the teacher in the School, of which 
Moksed Ali - a rival Congress candidate , was the Headmaster and Secretary . It 
was further in evidence that he was not only a supporter but had proposed 
Moksed Ali to the local Legislative Assembly by signing his nomination paper , 
P . W . 56 Mujibor Rahman is another youngman , - aged about 25 . He claims to 
have come from a distant of about two miles from Lakhiganj. He deposed that 
Amjad Ali spoke in the meeting that Congress had already stopped cow sacrifice 
and if voted to power , the dead bodies of the Muslims shall have to be cremated . 
In the cross examination he admits that he went to the Lakhiganj Bazar on the 
day of the meeting at about 4 - 30 P . M , and it was in evidence that the meating 
started at 2 - 30 P .M . He says that he went there for a stroll and not for market 
ing and incidentally heard the specches of which he took no note , P . W . 55 
Taleb Ali deposed that the mecting was held not at the bazar area — but in a 
Madrasa - half a fuflong away . The evidence is far from convincing and the 
witnesses seem to be procured for the purpose, 


The defence had examined two witnessesD.W8. 24 and 32 and Opposite Par 
ties examined two witnesses - 0 . P . W . 1 and O . P . W . 4 . D . W . 24 Safur Rahman 
stated that at Lakhiganj bazar meeting Amjad Ali did not discuss or talk about 
the Cattle Preservation Act, but he said that opposition party was nceded for the 
protection of tenancy rights , which may be abridged ." He spoke about social 
measures which might remove the distinction between the rich and the poor. 
D . W . 32 Bera Mahammed who claimed to be present in the Lakhiganj meeting sup 
ported the other witness as to what Amjad Ali spoke , O . P . W . 1 Dwarikanath Das 
produced the nomination paper to show that Moksad Ali was proposed by one 
Taleb Ali of Village Baghmari, who is indentified to be P , W , 65 . 0 . P . W . 4 
Hazı Md. Ismail Hussain claimed to be present in the meeting held at Lakhiganj 
Bazar and he deposed that Amjad Ali and Jahanuddin while speaking in the 
meeting made no religious or communal appeal. In these circumstances it is 
difficult to say that the allegations against Amjad Ali or his associates can be 
said to have been substantiated . 


Then we come to the meeting at Gutipara alleged to be held on 27th February . 
1957. It is covered by sub - paragraph ( 1x ) of paragraph 10 of the petition . The 
meeting was said to be held in the house of one Samser Ali - an inhabitant of the 
village Gutipara within Gauripur constituency . It is alleged that propaganda was 
carried in the meeting on communal lines and Amjad Ali and his friends asked 
the electors to refrain from voting for the Congress candidate . The subject 
matters alleged to be discussed in the meeting are as usual- ban on cow slaugh 
ter, Ramdhun geet and stoppage of burial of Muslim dead bodies. The defen 
dant and his assoclates denied the meeting or any such discussion as alleged . 
Amjad Ali admitted to have stopped for the night at Samser Ali s house. Samser 
Ali himself was examined as D . W . 11 and he supports Amjad Ali s statement. 
The prosecution witnesses though numbering four, creat very little impression 
and one finds it difficult to believe that crowd of about one thousand people had 
attended a meeting at a villager s house. The petitioner s witnesses shifted the 
venue to an enclosure outside Samser Ali s house. There was nothing to indi 
cate that there was any previous information given to the public to attend any 
such meeting . The petitioner s witnesses are P .Ws. 34 to 37. P . W . 34 Husain 
Ali Admitted to have come to Gutipara from a distance of about three miles from 
Baniamarirchar and without any intimation . He recapitulated all the major 
allegations against Amjad All and spoke of Ram -Mangal or Ram Lila song, P . W . 
35 Juran All Sheik spoke about hearing Amjad Ali alone but later on he con 
tradicts himself by saying that he did not hear Amjad Ali or anyone speaking 
but heard those who had assembled saying that the Congress had stopped the 
burial of the dead and they should not vote for the Congress - - P . W . 38 Abdul 
Gani aged about 26 , -- stated that about 700 or 800 people lived in the village of 
Gutipara and there were leading members like Shamsher, Monju Dewani, Ibra 
him Dewani and others. He and P . W . 34 Hussain were summoned only the day 
they were examined to appear in court . P . W . 37 Haranuddin Sarkar is another 
youngman of the same age as P , W . 38 . Amjad Ali is alleged to have said that 
Congress could compel Muslims burning their dead bodies — and alluded to 
Ramdhun geet. He did not tell anybody about attending the meeting nor what 
he heard there, 


Şec . 3 (U )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26, 1969 /ASVINA 1, 1881 2469 


In the light of the evidence of Semser Ali it was difficult to believe that there 
was any meeting or that there was any canvassing on communal lines as alleged 
in the petition , He stated that Amjad Ali, Azad Ali and Santi Roy took shelter 
for the pight at his residence while returning after a meeting at Bandihana and 
left the next morning. They had addressed no meeting at his house or in the 
neighbourhood . 

Another Praja Socialist Party meeting spoken of was held at Kadamtola on 
15th February , 1957 and this is covered by sub - paragraph (xiv ) of para 10 of the 
petition . P . W . 58 Sahadat Hussain as I have already indicated , spoke about 
three meeting held at Bilasipara , Bangalipara and Kadamtola on different dates 
and he claimed to be a congress worker who was paid his travelling allowances for 
Congress propaganda . He was definitely in the pay of the opposite camp and 
little reliance can be placed on his testimony as to what was stated to have 
happened in the meeting . The other witness a Hindu - P . W . 59 % - Bikram 
Sanwar alleged that Amjad Ali had spoken in that meeting that if Congress were 
yoted to power , Muslims will be worst off, They shall hav : to remate theļr 
dead bodies and worship like Hindus. He speaks in a very casual manner and 
was therein the meeting for an hour, he says. He could not give either the day 
of the date of the meeting nor did he report to anybody about what he heard in 
the meeting. There was no other witness , The evidence is therefore exceeding 
ly poor for making out a case for communal propaganda against the appellants . 
The defendant examined three witnesses from Kadamtola to prove that there was 
no Praja Socialist Party meeting held at Kadamtola -- they being D . Ws, 27 , 30 and 
31. 

We now come to the meeting at Bangalipara mentioned in paragraph 10 (xvii ) 
of the petition about which P . W . 58 , Sahadat Hussain was one of thc 
witnesses as I have already stated and the other witnesses was P . W . 57 Abu 
Bakar. This witness deposed that in this meeting Jahanuddin and Amjad Ali 
said that unless there be an opposition party the audience will be deprived of 
the right of sacrificing cows and the burial of deadbodies and singing of Ram 
dhun geet will be enforced . One Hafiz Sahib is alleged to have stated that 
Socilalists were akin to Muslims and therefore they deserved the vote . About 200 
or 225 persons attended the meeting. He claims to have met Sahadat Hussain 
and another and talked to them about the Praja Socialist Party meeting only on 
his way back , He attended Congress election meetings and used to call at Con 
gress office as deposed to by Sahadat Hussain . This however, the witnesses does 
admits and he scems to have poor memory about what he heard in Congress 
meetings. There is little doubt that the story given by him is cooked up . 

D . Ws. 19 and 21 spoke about this meeting at Bangalipara . D . W . 19 , Kalim 
Uddin Munshi stated that Amjad Ali addressed the meeting but he did not say 
anything about the Cattle Preservation Act. The only thing that he is alleged 
to have spoken was that his purpose was to prevent Congress party from doing 
anything wrong. Nothing was said against the Congress rule . Only about 100 
persons according to him attended the meeting. D . W . 21 Şelku Mohammad Bepari 
claimed to have attended the meeting at Bangalipara addressed by Amjad 
Ali, Jahanuddin and others . They are alleged to have talked about tenancy 
laws and other matters. Even if they are not correct the allegation of communal 
propaganda is hardly established . 

The meeting at Kacharihat is alleged to have been held about twenty -five 
days prior to the polling but no definite date was given . We might refer to sub 
paragraph (xxvi) of paragraph 10 of the petition in this regard . It was men 
tioned therein that the meeting at Kacharihat was attended by Amjad Ali, 
Jahanuddin , Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar and others and propaganda was carried on 
communal lines suggesting that the Congress Party and the Congress Govern 
ment were trying to Hinduise the Muslims and were carrying on anti - Islamic 
activities . No definite part was ascribed to any the speakers nor was there any 
mention as to what subjects were actually spoken or discussed . 

P . W . 47 B N Nath , a homeopath , stated that he came from a distance of 
about seven miles from Kacharihat and attended the meeting. He heard Bibhuti 
Bhusan Sarkar, Jahanuddin , Amjad Ali and others speaking to the people in 
the bazar in a meeting. The subjects for discussion were alleged to be the 
Cattle Preservation Act, the banning of cow slaughter , on cremation by the Mus 
lims and the singing of Ramdhun geet . He admitted to have gone on a canvas 
sing trip for Congress to Kacharihat. He further claims to have attended a meet 
ing of the Praja Socialist Party at Dharamsala , but he admits that he neither 
talked nor sent any report about what he heard in any of these meetings , P . W . 
19 is one Vikam Chand Jain . , He admitted that the meeting was attended by 


2470 TIIE GAZET IT OF INDIA. SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 / ASVINA 4 , 1881 


[PRT JI 


Hindu shop keepers also including the Marwaris He alleged that Amjad Ali 
spoke that if there was no opposition , the danger of invasion of Islam would 
remain , but he finished by saying that the members of the audience could vote 
for anyone they liked . He says that he is a member of the congress and he and 
his brother Surujmal came to depose together - - another witness is P . W . 50 Yusuf 
Ali, who claims, to be mechanic . He does not support Vikam Chand and other 
witnesses. He mentioned casually that he attended Kacharihat merting of the 
Praja Socialist Party also and alleged that Amjad Ali had repeated what he spoke 
at the Dharamsala meeting. He is a worker in a match factory at Dhubri and 
it can hardly be believed that he went on attending the Praja Socialist Party or 
Congress meetings held at different places at a distance of about thrce miles or 
You -as has been his case . He is unreliable as a witness . The next witness is 
Surimal Jain P . W . 52 who is a brother of Vikam Chand P . W . 49. I have serious 
doubt as to the story given by these witnesses or their presence in the meeting 
otherwise the petition would have contained further details as to the sort of pro 
paganda carried on . 


We next consider the meeting at Dharamshala covered by sub -paragraph 
( xxvII ) of paragraph 10 of the petition . The meeting was alleged to be held on 
23rd February , 1957 in the village of Dharamshala within Dhubri Constituency 
and the allegations were that in that meeting convened by the Praja Socialist 
Party Amjad Ali and others spoke vehemently against the Congress and alleged 
that Congress Government has interfered with the religious rights of the Muslims 
and as such they should not votc for any Congress candidate either in the Parlia 
mentary constituency or in the Assembly constituency . No idea was given as 
to what were the subjects actually discussed and how the speakers appealed to 
communal sentiment. Several witnesses were produced by the petitioner who 
were supposed to be present in that meeting , 


BAN at Kachani there for cany 


P . W . 47 Dr. B . Nath , a homeopathic practitioner claimed to be present at this 
meeting as well as at Kacharihat meeting . He used to reside at Dhubri and 
carry on his normal avocations there. Dharamshala was about five miles away 
from Dhubri. He admitted to be out for canvassing for the Congress , but can 
vassing is mostly done in company . He had no companion . He deposed to 
have gone to Dharamshala to hear what was discussed at the Praja 
Socialist Party meeting but he made no report about what he heard in 
the said meeting to any Congress authority or any person directly con 
cerned with this petition . P . W . 48 Mohondra Nath Sarkar , a tajlor , 
claimed to have attended the Praja Socialist meeting at Dharamsala and heard 
Amjad Ali addressing the meeting who spoke about cow sacrifice and the legisla 
tion for stopping burial of muslim dead bodies, and also about the Ramdhun geet 
as being against the tenets of Muslim religion Abdul Fazal and Bibhuti Sarkar 
are stated to have followed suit. He claimed to have reported the matter to the 
petitioner for which there is no support and he admitted to be out on canvassing 
in his favour. He said that he attended a Congress meeting which was held a 
few days before the Praja Socialist Party meeting at Dharamsala . Ile remember 
ed the names of one Tamizuddin Prodhani and Biakuntha Nath Sarkar who spoke 
in the mecting but did not remember any of the points dealt with by those 
speakers in the Congress meeting . His remembering the speeches at the Praja 
Socialist Party meeting is cqually doubtful, P . W . 50 Yusuf Ali deposed that 
he attended the Praja Socialist Party meeting but the place where the meeting 
was held is not disclosed . Apart from this meeting he claimed to have attended 
the meeting at Kacharihat which I have already dealt with and the unreliable 
nature of his evidence , P . W . 51 is Durali. He alleged that Amjad Ali spoke in 
the Dharamsala meeting about ban on cow sacrifice, and that if the Congress 
Government was voted to power they were likely to stop the burial of Muslim 
dead -bodies and he referred to the singing of Ramdhun geet. This witness 
claimed to have attended the Congress meeting some three or four days before 
the Praja Socialist Party meeting referred to by him . He remembered the 
names of some of the speakers in the Congress meeting, but did not remember 
what they spoke in that meeting . In such state of circumstances it is very diffi 
cult to believe that the witness remembered what was spoken of in the Praja 
Socialist Party meeting. P . W . 53 Giasuddin Prodhani spoke about the Praja 
Socialist Party meeting at Dharamsala . He alleged that all the speakers including 
Amjad Ali spoke about the ban on cow sacrifice and the possible stoppage of 
the cremation of Muslim dead bodies He was an employee of the Dhubri Match 
Factory and the place of the meeting was variously stated to be three to five 
miles away . He remembered neither the date nor month of the meeting . The 
next witness is P . W . 54 Fazaruddin who spoke about the Praja Socialist Party 
mecting at Dharamsala . He supported P . W 53 . He also attended a Congress 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


Src. 3 (ii)] TUF ( AZEI IE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 / ASVINA 1. 1881 2471 

- - - - - 
meeting which according to him , was held at that place about nine or ten days 
before the Praja Socialist Party meeting but he has no idea as to what were 
said hy the speakers in that meeting , even though he claimed to be a member 
of the Congress . 

Two witnesses — D .Ws 1 and 2 were examined by Amjad Ali. D . W . 1 Patarú 
Member stated that in the mecting held at Dharmasal there was no discussion 
about cow slaughter and Amjad Ali and other speakers spoke for the necessity of 
an opposition party in the legislature He further stated that they had an idea 
about the Cattle Preservation Act from before. D . W . 2 Wahedulla Bepari stated 
that Amjad Ali and other speakers spoke about other matters of public impor 
tance and not about cow slaughter, nor did he appeal to any religious or com , 
munal sentiment. Apart from the deposition of the two defendants witnesses , the 
deposition of the petitioner s witnesses does not carry conviction , 

I next consider about the Praja Socialist Party meeting alleged to be held 
at Muhurirchar on 15th February 1957. 11 is covered by sub - paragraph (xxixy 
of paragraph 10 of the petition The allegation , as usual, was that Amjad Ali 
with few of his followers addressed a meeting at Muhurirchar in the Mankachar 
Constituency and he dwelt upon banning of cow slaughter, burial of Muslim dead 
bodies and compulsory singing of Ramdhan geet, Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar or 
Jahanuddin Ahmed was not alleged to be present in that meeting. The case for 
the defendant was that the meeting at Muthurirchar was held not on the 15th 
of February but it was held one day earlier . Amjad Ali however, denied that there 
was any communal propaganda in that meeting. P .Ws 6 , 7 and 8 spoke in 
support of the petitioner s case . 

P . W . 6 was one Abdus Salam who was a teacher in a private school. He 
could not give the exact date of the meeting but it was alleged to be held about 
nine or ton days prior to the polling . Amjad Ali was alleged to have spoken 
on ban on cow sacrifice , about the perspective ban on burial of Muslim dead 
bodies and about singing of Ramdhun geet which was anti - Islamic . According 
to him about 100 or 125 persons attended the meeting . He stated that he did not 
report about what he heard in the meeting or about his being present in the 
said meeting either . He admitted to be a teacher in a private school of which 
Moksed Ali, the defeated Congress candirate was the Secretary . The next 
witness is P . W . 7 , Md. Abdul Hamid . He could not distinguish between the 
Congress party meeting and the Praja Socialist Party meeting. He only 
reproduced what he heard from others and did not claim to have attended any 
mecting . He further admitted that he was illitcrate and therefore his evidence 
was of very little value. The other witness examined in this connection was 
one Dr, Moksed Ali, P . W . 8 , who alleged Amjad Ali to have stated in the meeting 
that in a democtacy an opposition was essential and that he further criticised 
the Congress activity in the meeting of having cow slaughter stopped by lcgis 
lation . He further alluded in that specch to the singing of Ramdhun gect and 
stoppage of passing of a proposed Act preventing Muslim burial. He further 
claimed that respondent Amjad Ali was his guest and that he accompanied him 
to the meeting . He conceded that the Congress meeting was held at his housc 
and he was a Congress member. He admitted that one Mafizuddin Ahmed had 
attended the meeting and he happens to be no other person than his father . 
Mafizuddin being examined as D . W . 22 , gives a direct lie to what his son Moksed 
Ali stated It was therefore clear that even though Moksed Ali came forth to 
speak of himself as the host , that is not supported by his father. It is further 
stated by the father that Amjad Ali left it to the audience to decide for whom 
they should vote . He stated that it was a sort of group mecting and there was 
no public mecting and the subjects discussed varied from the abolition of 
Zamindary to the tenants interest in land . D . W 23 Alimuddin Sheikh supported 
what DW . 22 has stated . In these circumstances there was very little of authen 
ticated evidence as to what was actually discussed in the mceting and in what 
strain . Some eighty or ninety persons attended the mecting, half of whom are 
stated to be illiterate 


The next meeting of the Praja Socialist Party we are concerned with , is 
described in sub - paragraph ( xxii ) of paragraph 10 of the petition , which was 
alleged to be held at Chapor Char area . The allegation was that about a fortnight 
before the date fixed for polling, that is , 6th of March , 1957, Jahanuddin Ahmed 
and Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar were alleged to have held several meetings in a 
Char area near Chapar Amjad Ali was not alleged to be present and the can 
vassing was carried on by Jahanuddin and Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar alone who 
fervently appealed to the Muslims to vote for thc Praja Socialist Party candidate , 
who they asserted would defend their religious rights by opposing the Congress 
in their anti - Islamic activitics. 


2442 THE CAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 / ASVINA 4 , 1881 


[ PART II 


The two witnesses for the petitioner were P . W . 23 and P . W . 83. P . W . 23 
Afsar All claimed to have accompanied Bibhuti Sarkar and Jahanuddin when 
they went round the straggling villages in the char areas and his case is , that 
these two persong spoke to a group of persons numbering about 10 to 12 persons 
at a time at different places, there was no proper meeting in the sense that there 
was no president, nor any large assemblage . He only spoke about ne Haildapra 
meeting which took place on the date previous to the polling which was not the 
meeting spoken of in the petition . He further stated in his evidence that he 
contradicted the Praja Socialist Party leaders by pointing out that cow - slaughter 
has not been prohibited . In the petition there was no definite mention as to the 
villages where these group meetings were held and as such there was very little 
definite allegation about the so - called meetings . P . W . 33, Julhasuddin deposed 
that in the first week of Falgoon one Osimuddin Ahmed called on him and on 
coming out he saw Jahanuddin Ahmed and Bibhuti Sarkar walting for him . They 
were there to discuss questions relating to the election and voting. He further 
claimed to have accompanied Jahanuddin and Bibhuti Sarkar to Shingimari and 
other villages , but he does not mention about Afsar Ali who claimed to have 
accompanied Jahanuddin , In these circumstances the evidence for the petitioner 
is far from convincing and the place of meetings not being definite , the allegations 
against Jahanuddin or Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar do not bear scrutiny. 

There was mention about another meeting — the Bhaidbari meeting - covered 
by paragraph 15 of the petition . The learned Advocate General however at the 
time of hearing did not choose to press about that meeting. It was alleged to be 
held on 11th February 1957, at Bhaidbari Inspection Bungalow . It was alleged 
therein that Şri W . Sangma carried on canvassing on communal lines and the 
allegations were not accepted by the Election Tribunal either. The learned 
Advocate General did not choose to press about other meeting ( stated in the 
petition ) and conceded in a way that if the evidence for the petitioner was not 
convincing in respect of the communal propaganda in these meetings , he has 
no better case in respect of the rest. 


In the foregoing paragraphs I have given an idea as to the nature of oral evi 
dence adduced by the petitioner in support of the case sought to be made out 
against Amjad Ali and his two associates Jahanuddin Ahmed and Bibhuti 
Bhusan Sarkar. As will appear from the discussions above , the main allegations 
against the opposite parties or defendants were that they appealed to the com 
munal passion and religious sentiments of the Muslims, mainly on the ground 
that Congress Government and the Congress Party had adopted un - Islamic 
measures. Their action was criticised because of putting into force the Cattle 
Preservation Act which was passed in the year 1951 - Assam Act XIII ( Published 
in the Assam Gazette dated 25th April 1951) and put into force in 1936 by the 
State Government. The other aspect was that a private member s " Bill” was 
sought to be introduced in the Parliament in 1954 by a Congress member Shri 
Shankar Rao Telkikar proposing ban on burial of dead bodies. The Bill however , 
was not passed and it was suggested by the petitioner s witnesses that Amjad Ali 
claimed to have been the main cause of stoppage of passing of that Bill into an 
Act, which might have otherwise affected the Muslims interest. The Bill how 
ever , which is printed as Annexure I - does not disclose that it had any communal 
outlook - but that the measure was sought to be introduced as an economic 
Ideasure to spare more lands for other use than for a graveyard and for pre 
venting unhealthy ways of disposing of dead bodies and to prevent cpidemics 
bcing spread 


The other allegation was that the Praja Socialist Party speakers referred 
to the singing of Ramdhun geet and that Allah is said to be placed in the same 
category as Rama the Hindu God , which the Muslims considered to be an insult to 
their religious faith . The fourth subject alleged to be constantly referred to and 
for which mainly Jahanuddin Ahmed was stated to be responsible , was the 
Marichbari or Marichbari affair which related to the eviction of some Muslim 
trespassers from a grazing reserve at the Instance of the Congress Government 
In the early part of the year 1956 , Jahanuddin was stated to have referred to this 
Incident in various meetings and to have produced a half burnt Quoran which he 
alleged , was recovered from some Muslim hut set on fire in the Morishbari Reserve. 
It was further alleged that the Congress Party people were the cause for the 
eviction of the Muslim occupants of the Forest Reserye. As a matter of fact there 
was very little evidence to show that the Quoran was recovered from any of 
these huts or that the Congress people in any sense were responsible for the 
burning of the huts for evicting the Muslim trespassers . The Government took 
the full responsibility and they rendered help to the people actually in distress 


SEC 3 ( ii )] 


THE GAZET IE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 / ASVINA 4 , 1881 2473 


= 


( vide Mr. B . Medhi s letter dated 24th Aprlj 1956 ) . There were other allegations 
which were mainly ascribed to Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar to the effect that he stated 
that the Congress Party and the Congress Government were trying to minimise 
the importance of Muslim religion and were in a sense trying to do away with 
the difference that existed between the Hindu and Muslim faiths. He is alleged 
to have stated that if the Congress Government continued to be in power, Muslims 
will have to worship the tulsi plant just as the Hinduş do . They will be stopped 
from giving Azan or calling the Muslims to prayer and that the Muslim women will 
have to put on vermillion marks. The learned Member of the Tribunal did not 
believe the minor allegations, but he found against Amjad Ali and his associates 
that they appealed systematically to the Muslim communal seutiment for the 
purpose of their own ends, mainly on four planks and they were - - ( 1 ) the Cattle 
Preservation Act, ( 2 ) the passing of the Act banning burial of Muslim dead bodies , 
( 3 ) singing of Ramdhun geet and (4 ) setting fire to the Muslim huts in the 
Morishburi reserve. The learned Member of the Tribunal nowhere categorically 
stated on what part of the evidence he definitely relied for this findings, but 
merely on considerations of the probabilitics he found that it was abundantly 
proved from the circumstances and documentary cvidence " produced that Amjad 
All and his associates had indulged in communal propaganda coming within the 
scope of section 123 ( 3 ) of the Representation of the People Act . 

I now propose to discuss the so - called documentary evidence on which the 
learned Member of the Tribunal depended for his findings , he not having placed 
much reliance on oral evidence . I may state here in short that the learned Member 
of the Tribunal presumed many things against Amjad All because of his denial 
in his written statement of all the meetings alleged to have bcen held at different 
places some of which he subsequently admitted in his deposition in the course of 
the trial. It is clear from the petition that the petitioner himself was not sure 
about the dates of many of the meetings — and would it be an offence iſ the 
defendant does not admit of those meetings without being sure ? The learned 
Tribunal further adversely commented on the fact that Amjad Ali did 
not conie first 1c depose in the court and that he came after the witnesses on his 
behall were examined . There is nothing irregular in so doing but the evidentiary 
value of his statements might be affected . The learned Tribunal ought to have 
decided the facts in issue on the weight of evidence and rot on mere adverse 
inferences. He further assumed that as Amjad Ali Aled in court some bills and 
documents from his possession . -- they must have been utilised by him in the 
election campaign for the purpose of carrying on communal propaganda, even 
though nobody says that those documents were produced in any meeting. They 
might have only been evidence of fact, that those matters — which might have been 
referred to in the meetings did really exist and were not mere canards . It is 
clear that the learned Member of the Tribunal did not and could put much 
rcliance or the oral evidence --- and as such , hesitated to come to any definite 
Inding on the basis thereof . I shall show presently that the so - called documentary 
evidence is equally of doubtful value as to the allegations made against defendant 
Amjad Ali. Jahanuddin or Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar. Though some of these corres 
pondences might be direct or indirect complaints by interested persons against the 
elertion propaganda carried on by Amjad Ali and his associates , they bear no 
actual testimony as to what the defendants spoke in which mecting and at what 
place. They neither disclose the source of information . Section 83 ( 1 ) ( b ) of the 
Representation of the People Act directs that all necessary particulars should be 
stated in regard to the allegations of corrupt practices ascribed to the defendants 
so that they may not be taken unawares and might meet the charges . This would 
also imply that there should be categorical Andings in regard to charges. 
nanely , - as to how far thcy are substantiated . A mere finding that the defendants 
must have committed the corrupt practice alleged by itself is not enough . The 
"Tribunal must show where and when any by whom and on what material the firiding 
is based . 

In this case thc petitioner Nazmul Haque did not atlend acy of the Praia 
Socialist Pariy mcetings, nor did he claim to be present in any place where anti 
propagando against the Congress was carried by the Praja Socialist Party Peonia 
on communal lines. He has neither kept nor produced any written report from anv 
resporcible person who was present in any of these meetings . His important 
witnesses - - P . W . 32 Abdul Bari Sarkar a defeated Legislative Assembly candidate , 
PW . 27 Sarat Chandra Singha, Congress leader incharge of Election in the 
District and P . W . 63 Umoruddin , a past Congress M . L . A . and brother of Moksher 
All a defeated candidate , also did not depose that they were present in any of 
the Praja Socialist Party meetings or could vouch with any degree of definiteness 
or certainty as to what was spoken in any of those meetings. The reliability of 
50 - called verbal reports on which they depended cannot be tested nor can they be 


2471 THI, GAZFTIE OF INDIA . SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 / ASVINI I, 1881 Part II 

= - - - - - 
considered to be good evidence except as heresay evidence . The election petition 
of Nazmul Haque challenging the validity of the election of Amjad Ali was not 
properly verified either as was required under the law , and though he states that the 
statements in the petition contained in paragraph 10 were true to his information , - 
he does not disclose from what sources , or what person he got any definite informa 
tion about the allegations made against different persons. In Sourye of his depost 
tion in court Nazmul Ilaque mentioned the names of Bazlul Basit, the Congress 
candidate from Salmara Constituency , Makshed All another Congress candidate from 
Gauripur Constituency and some other prominent Congress members as persons 
who reported to him about some of the meetings, but they did not come forward 
to support him . He gave the names of some obscure persons as well who were 
examined on his behalf in respect of some of the meetings — and there were others 
who though examined did not support him . He further stated that he made a note 
of the reports made to him by different persons from time to time but he does 
not come forward to produce any of such chlts where these reports were alleged 
to have been recorded . He deposed , he says, on the basis of these reports the 
existence of which is doubtful, if not disproved. He had admittedly no personal 
krowledge as to what happened in any of these Praja Socialis ; Party meetings 
and he speaks of recording the reports received by him in these words: 
" I do not remember now when I got information abuut the meeting and 

utlerances of the P .SP . members. I made short notes on small bits 
of papers in a note book . I have not produced the chits or the 

note book . They have not been included in the documents Aled ." 
Most of the witnesses for the petitioner as I have already indicated , deposed 
that they did not report to any other person as to what they heard in the Prajd 
Socialist Party meetings and I think that a fair percentage of them were Illiterate 
or half literate except those who were professedly - Congress election canvassers 
or active Congress , workers or officials . None of these persons cither came with 
any authenticated reports or documents prepared or possessed by them about the 
speeches which were supposed to carry communal virus . 


Let me now discuss the documentary evidence , rather the documents 
on the record and see how far they support the petitioner s caşe . None of the 
documents , I must say , bear any direct testimony to what happened in any of 
the public meetings or group meetings of the Praja Socialist Party — which are the 
subject matters of attack by the petitioner , nor do they disclose the purport of 
any speech vſ any of the spcakers in respect of any of the meetings . They only 
raise a background , 


Ext. Pl was a hand bill in regard to a Praja Socialist Party meeting fixed 
for 16th January , 1957 where Cattle Preservation Act was proposed to be 
discussed along with the tenancy law and abolition of Zamindary . It was 
intimated therein that Maulvi Amjad Ali would speak about his activity in the 
Parliament for last five years and about the Bund from Kharmuja to Fakirganj 
and other matters connected therewith . This notice related to the meeting at 
Fakirganj. 


Ext. P . 10 was another notice of a similar kind for a Praja Socialist Party 
clection meeting proposed to be held at Chunari Bazar On 21st January , 1957. 
There also the subjects notified for discussion were the tenancy law , Cattle 
Preservation Act and various other subjects and for the information fit for the 
general public . It was stated in that hand bill that Maulvi Amjad Ali, M . P . 
would enlighten the public as to what he had done within the last five years 
in the Parliament specifically regarding compensation for lands taken for the 
Bund from Kharmuja to Fakirganj and other connected matters. This hand 
bill was more or lesy in the same form as the hand bllj Ext , P . 1. The authenticity 
of these hand bills is not denied and it must be presumed that Cattle Preserva . 
tion Act was one of the subjects that was discussed in that public mecting. None 
of these hand bills showed that they were intended only for the Muslim audience 
and they being public meetings must have been intended for the general public 
who were requested to join in crowds. We get no idea of the speeches actually 
delivered in those meetings nor do we know the trend of discussion . What we 
can get or infer from these two hand bills is that in that the Praja Socialist 
Party meetings held in those places , there was discussion about the Cattle Pre 
servation Act along with other subjects of local interest and Shri Amjad Ali 
must have spoken how important or useful his existence in the Parliament has 
been , which every candidate seeking re - election is bound to say . Whether dis 
cussion of a subject by itself would be an offence coming within section 123 ( 3 ) of 
the Representation of the People Act, I propose to discuss later , 


Sec . 9 (ii) ] " THE ( AZET TE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 /ASVINA 1, 1881 2475 
A 

S S = = = = = = = = = = = - - = = = 
Ex . P . 2 is another hand bill of a Praja Socialist Party meeting : This copy 
was directed to the persons attending East Tiamari Mosque, in the Gauripur 
Constituency and what was stated therein was that a meeting would be held 
on 28th Poush corresponding to 12th January 1957 at 3 pm , at Gauripur Gohata 
( not in or near the mosque ) where Amjad Ali, Jahanuddin Ahmed and Bibhuti 
Bhusan Sarkar would speak along with Abdul Ahmed and Santı Roy . It was 
an ordinary hand bill about a public meeting, which is so common nowadays , 
The defendant however, came with some evidence to show that this meeting 
could not be held on 12th January , because of rains but it was held a few days 
later . Holding or not holding of a meeting , is not of much importance by itself , 

Exts , P . 3 , P . ( P . 13A ) and P . 7 are in a way connected and great, if not 
unduc importance has been given to these documents by the learned Member of 
the Tribunal. In my opinion there are sufficient doubts as to the admissibility 
of these documents and marking them as exhibits , particularly the unauthen 
ticated copies of private correspondence or letters , - - in the absence of the 
originals Even if they are considered to be correctly admitted , I am not 
prepared to hold on the basis of these documents that the allegations against 
Amjad Ali and his associates as to corrupt practices ascribed to them were 
sufficiently or satisfactorily proved with the help of these documents , 

Ext. P . 6 was the copy of a letter by Shri Mohd . Umaruddin ( P . W . 63 ) to Shii 
B . R , Medhı, the then Chief Minister of Assam dated 31st January 1957 ( and ex . 
P . 13 is another copy of Ext. 6 ) . This letter was written with a view to get 
further information from the State Government or the Chief Minister about the 
Cattle Preservation Act and Mr. Umuruddin asked for necessary particulars about 
the said Act with a view to dispel the disaffection created among the Muslim 
masses by the Muslim Praja Socialist candidates by whom it was alleged , anti 
propaganda was carried against the Congress because of this old legislation being 
put into operation and with the consent of the Muslim M . L .As. of whom he was one 
He was interested in the present election as well - because his brother Mokshed 
was a candidate on Congress ticket from the Bilasipara Assembly Constituency , 
he himself being rejected . The material paragraph in this letter to Mr. B . R Medhi 
roads as follows: 
" You may be aware that the Muslim P Socialist candidates having entered 

the field carlier have made Cow Protection Act of 1959 or 50 , the 
spear -head of their attack against the Congress Govt. alleging that 
the Act had been brought into force in August last only in the plain 
district of Assam after some independent Muslim M . L .AS. joined 
the congress and general body of Muslims were persuaded to do so ; 
that this action of the Govt. is a direct encroachment on the religious 
rights of the Muslims. In course of this infectious and mischievous 
propaganda by playing upon the religious sentiments of the Muslims, 
they are also giving a broad hint that stoppage of burial of Muslim 
dead bodies and calling of Azan ( call to prayer ) may follow suit not 
in distant future. 


As a resu t of such propaganda being systematically carried out in the 

Muslim majority areas , considerable disaffection has been created . 
I consider it, therefore, my duty to bring the matter to your notice 
as well as to that Mr Chaliha and would urge upon steps to be 
taken to counter this pernicious propaganda before it is too late . 
I would therefore request you to send me a copy of the Cow 
Protection Act together with rules, if any , made thereunder and 
confirm categorically whether this Act has been enforced by a 
Gazette notification in August last or some time last year , if so , 
then to state the reason for this action on the eve of the election . 
I feel that it will be more tactically sound to call upon all leading 
Muslim congressmen to give suitable replies based on correct 
interpretation of the Act and the intention of the Govt. so as to 
cffectively scoth the unfavourable reaction caused against congress 

by P . S . P . rivals ." 
Ext. P .7 was the copy of the reply dated 5th February 1957 alleged to be 
given to this letter by Mr. B . R . Mcdhi, the then Chief Minister . The material 
paragraph is as follows: 
" The Cattle Preservation Act for the preservation of cattle on economic 

grounds of Cattle below 14 years was passed almost unanimously by 
the house , Section 13 of the Act clearly lays down that the State 
Government may , by general or special order and subject to such 
condition as it may think fit to impose , exempt from the operation 


2475 THE GAZETIE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959/ ASVINA 1 , 1881 [PART II 

= - = 
of this Act the slaughter of any cattle for any religious, ceremonial, 
Medical research or any other purpose . There is a provision laying 
down the operation of this Act will not be applicable to slaughter of 
any cattle on the occasion of the Id -uz - Zuha Festival. The Act 

came into force on the 17th July , 1956 ." 
Mr. Medhi however , did not express any opinion as to the alleged propaganda 
on communal lines by the members of the Praja Socialist Party . 

Ext . P . 3 indicates that Maulvi, Muhammed Umaruddin , M . L , A ., was supplied 
with a copy of the Cattle Preservation Act , 1950 and a copy of the notification 
enforcing the Act along with the rules made thereunder . 

Ext. P . 3 is a copy of the Congress bulletin or leaflet regarding the Cattle 
Preservation Act published by the Assam Pradesh Congress Committee sometime 
before the election . The opening portion of that leaflet deals with the reasons 
for publication of the same and the material paragraph to which importance has 
been given in the judgment of the Tribunal, runs as follows: 
“ The communal parties , taking advantage of this subtle passion of the 

human heart as also of the natural simplicity of man try to fulfil their 
own selfish interest . In matters of religion they take recourse to 
hair splitting arguments as also to false propaganda amongst people 

so as to achieve their own selfish interest. 
These communal forces , by misinterpreting the Assam Cattle Preservation 

Act, 1951 adopted by the Congress Government amongst the simple 
hearted Muslim population of Assam , went to show that the Congress 

Government by banning cow slaughter is putting its fingers on Islam . 
On the other hand by interpreting the same legislation in a different way 

amongst the Hindus, they say that by not wholly banning cow 
slaughter this Congress Government is doing disservice to Hindu 

religion . 
The people of Assam should try to realise the significance of this double 

toned interpretation put on the same piece of legislation adopted by 

the Congress Government." 
The pamphlet further goes to explain the cause for the passing of this 
Cattle Preservation Act of 1950 . It had been urged on behalf of the peti 
tioner that this pamphlet would show that there was communal propaganda on 
account of the passing or enforcing of this Act and we are tentatively prepared 
to accept that this construction is correct, but the pamphlet nowhere refers to 
what area this propaganda was confined or is spread throughout the entire length 
and breadth of Assam . The evidence could further disclose that this pamphlet 
was distributed all over the State or wherever they considered that there was 
need of its publication and Goalpara is urged to be one of those Districts . It docs 
not speak definitely either that it was the Praja Socialist Party people who carried 
on this propaganda or that it was one of the communal parties . Assuming for 
argument s sake that there was propaganda by some of the communal minded 
people on the basis of this Act, it would be difficult to assume that it was Amjad 
Ali and his election workers who indulged in this sort of propaganda. The author 
or the publishing authority docs not come forward to prove on whose allegations 
or report this pamphlet was published , though P . W . 27 Sarat Chandra Singha 
claims that it was at his report to the Publicity Department of the Congress Elec 
tion Committee that this pamphlet came into existence. P . W . 63 – Mr. Umaruddin 
also claims some credit, but as a matter of fact the person actually responsible for 
the publication not being before the court, it is difficult to assume anything more 
than the fact that this pamphlet came into existence justifying the enforcing of 
the Cattle Preservation Act , because communalists , both Hindus and Muslims, 
were reported to have carried on adverse propaganda against Congress Govern 
ment on the basis of this legislation which the Muslims considered to be prejudi 
cial to their religious sentiment. It will appear from a letter of P . W . 32 Abdul 
Bari Sarkar to Amjad Ali dated 15th December, 1956 (Ext. R4 ) that Muslim minds 
werc , very much agitated on enforcing this Act and he asked the latter to oppose 
or withdraw its operation . if he could by some sort of intervention in the Parlia 
ment in New Delhi, Abdul Bari Sarkar was selected as the Congress candidate 
for Legislative Assembly from the Gauripur constituency and on getting that 
Information , he showed certain anxiety and wrote to Mr Amjad Ali. M . P . if he 
could help in the matter. The material paragraph of the letter is as follows: 
" The Muslim mind as you know is very much perturbed for the promulga 

tion of the Cattle Preservation Act in the plain districts of Assam . 
I understand that highest dignitary asked you to put questions 


SEC 3 ( 11 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 / ASVINA 4 , 1881 2477 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


regarding this Act in the Parliament. But you did not put any , the 
report goes . Will you kindly put the matter before the Parliament 
and get the necessary orders for withdrawing the Act at least before 

the election . I hope you will do the needful early ." 
Amjad Ali replied to this letter by his letter of 20th December 1956 (Ext. P . 12 ) 
and therein he stated that Item No. 1 $ in ligt II of the Constitution gives absolute 
power to the State for " preservation , protection and improvement of stock and 
prevention of animal diseases ; veterinary training and practice." He stated that 
the State having exclusive jurisdiction in regard to the State List, any matter 
which obtains in the State List can never be brought before the Parliament. The 
letter of Abdul Bari Sarkar clearly shows that the Muslim minds were highly 
exercised over the promulgation of the legislation and it did not wait for the 
Praja Socialist Party to carry on propaganda on this basis . The learned Member 
of the Tribunal seeks to make out a case , which is nobody s case, that it was 
the intelligentsia who smelt trouble over the enforcement of this Act and Abdul 
Bari Sarkar being one of them , anticipated trouble on this count but the plain 
words of the letter Ext, R .4 do not support this theory . 

Ext. P .4 is a copy of the letter purported to be written by Abdul Bari Sarkar 
to the Chief Minister , Assam , Mr. B . R . Medhi on 9th January 1957. The original 
is neither produced , nor accounted for . This letter was written after he was nomi 
nated to seek election on Congress ticket to the local Assembly from Gouripur 
Constituency . The purpose of this letter was to secure or procure all possible 
help from the Chief Minister and the writer concluded with the solicitation — " I 
submit that you will please give me a substantial amount of money and Jeep car 
for the campaign ." He alleged in that letter that Jonab Amjad Ali, M . P . along 
with his small band of followers was poisoning the ears of the Muslim voters 
by saying that the Congress of Assam has interfered with Islam in stopping cow 
sacrifice and that too in the plain districts only . The Cattle Preservation Act of 
1951 ( sic ) and its implementation in August 1956 was the main instrument of 
their attack . He suggested that some practical guidance was necessary to meet 
their charges promptly and some All- India Muslim leaders might be deputed to 
Dhubri to counteract this nefarious propaganda . He cited no instance nor did he 
name any of the small band of followers of Jonab Amjad Ali with whom he shows 
his misunderstanding for the first time. He knew in his own mind how the 
Muslims took this Act and anticipated difficulty from before (vide Ext. R . 4 ) even 
before Amjad Ali came to seek election and poison the Muslim mind as alleged , 
He thought that All India Muslim leaders alone could disabuse the Muslim minds. 
He made his case for money and Jeep in the following paragraph : 
" Under all these circumstances you can very well understand that the 

Congress candidate at Gauripur will have to fight a rich man like 
Laljee along with a socialist candidate in a vast area . As a result to 
counteract all these, higher number of agents had to be appointed by 
me and the cost of my campaign has naturally gone much higher than 
what I normally estimated . 


The purpose behind this letter of Abdul Bari Sarkar is obvious. He was trying 
to make out a case of his personal difficulty and expense in fighting the election 
on Congress ticket - and he sought more help and more money from the Congress 
fund through the Provincial Chief Minister. He had therefore to make out a 
strong case . It also appears from the evidence led by the petitioner that the 
first meeting held by the Praja Socialist Party at Gauripur in Abdul Bari Sarkar s 
constituency was on 12th January , 1957. Even though in Abdul Bari s deposition 
he attempts to say that there were carlier mectings , he could give no particulars 
about the same nor has anybody else supported him in this respect . It is clear 
that the allegations against Amjad Ali about carrying on communal propaganda, 
in the letter addressed to Mr, Medhi are not based on any admissible evidence nor 
can the letter be used as evidence of fact regarding communal propaganda . 

A copy of a letter purported to be written by Mr. Medhi in reply to this 
letter of Abdul Bari ( Ext. P . 4 ) was marked as Ext. P ,5 which is dated 21st 
January , 1957. It does not show that Mr. Medhi accepted the statement of Abdul 
Bari Sarkar regarding the communal propaganda to be true but the material 
obscrvation was on the hypothesis that even if it be true, - he wrote , “ In case 
all Congressmen can make a united effort to explain the Congress view points in 
connection without clection campaign , our victory is sure." He further advised 
Abdul Bari to keep contact with the Congress election body that might be consti 
tuted in Abdul Bari s district . He assured that as regards financial help , thc 
copy of Abdul Bari s letter was being sent to the Secretary , Election Committee 
for favour of action , 


2478 THE GAZE LIF OF INDIA . SIPTEMBER 201, 1959 / ASVINA 4, 1881 


[Pars II 


- - - - 


These correspondences, leaflets and hand - bills -- as I have discussed above 
fall far short of establishing that Amjad Ali had actually indulged in communal 
propaganda, in his election campaigti assisted by his camp- fellows in Praja 
Socialist Party . It is always open to a rival or an opposite party man to ascribe 
various corrupt practices , but that by itself is of little significance, unless the 
allegations made ara substantiated by evidence . The publicity of the Congress 
bullct Ext . P . 3 to which I have alluded , docs not establish at what place and 
when any by whom the communal propaganda was carried on . It might only 
indicate that the Cattle Prescrvation Act was made use of by both Hindus and 
Muslims to speak against the Congress rule or the Congress Government s 
indiscretion . It is one thing to speak against the Congress for its administrative 
policy in the matter of cnforcing or passing legal meastres of adopting methods 
that might hit the Muslim sentiment and it is quite a different thing to appeal to 
the religious sentiment on that ground and ask the voters either for voting 
against the Congress or for the speakers themselves. Suppose somebody questions 
the wisdom of the Government in the matter of passing an Act restricting pro 
hibition on Temple entry or the Hindu Code giving share of inheritance to the 
daughters - - will this amount to communal propaganda, even though Hindus mind 
may be touched by this propaganda ? 


I find it difficult to accept the insinuations made against Amjad Ali for sub 
mitting a copy of the Funcral Reforms Bill, 1954 as introduced in the Lok Sabha in 
court, I further find no evidence in support of the observations made by the 
Member of the Tribunal that Amjad Ali had prepared from before to avail of 
a communal platform for his personal ends. There was some correspondence 
even on the Ramdhun geet but that would not establish the fact that all these 
measures were utilised to rouse the Muslim sentiments against the Congress Party 
or the Congress candidate at the election . What morcy most of the petitioner s 
witnesses stated that Ramdhun geet was not compulsory in the Muslim schools 
in the locality . The correspondence would only show at best that Çattle Preserva 
tion Act was used by the opposition parties for criticising the Congress , or made 
it the spcar hcad of their attack , as Mr. Umaruddin wrote. The other allegation 
namely the banning of the buriul of Muslim dead bodies has no reference in any 
of the correspondences that passed between the Chief Minister and Abdul Bari 
Sarkar , but Umaruddin in his letter to Mr, Medhi, stated that there was broad 
hint to the effect that it might follow . P . W . 63 Umaruddin deposed that during 
the manth of January , 1957 he received reports from Prafulla Chakravarty , Nazmul 
Haque , Abdul Bari and others that the Praja Socialist Party people were carrying 
on propaganda on religious lines, particularly they were said to be representing 
that Assam Cattle Preservation Act of 1950 which had been enforced a few 
months before the polling was an encroachment on the religious rights of the 
Muslims. He further stated that he received reports to the effect that it was 
represented to the voters that the Congress Government would take steps to stop 
the burial of dead bodies and Azan ( rall prayer ) but he did not disclose from 
whom he learnt about this, he not being present in any of the Praja Socialist 
Party meetings. 


P . W . 27 Sarat Chandra Singha who was the Secretary of the Assam Pradesh 
Election Committee and the President of the District Election Committee , deposed 
that he learnt from Congress workers that the Praja Socialist Party propaganda 
was that if Congress won , the Muslims will not be allowed to sacrifices cows. 
They further referred to the Cattle Preservation Act and pressed that by reason 
of this Act Muslims would not be able to continue their religious rites and that 
the Congress will stop burial of dead bodies and it would make cremation com 
pulsory. He doposed to have heard that at South Salmara Jahanuddin produced 
a partially burnt copy of Holy Quoran and told people that it had been burnt 
in the house of a Muslim at Morichbari reserve where Muslim houses were burnt 
by Hindus. This was the nature of the Praja Socialist Party propaganda according 
to the report received by him . The source of his information he discloses was 
the reports from Prafulla Chakravarty , Nazmul Haque , Buzlul Basit , Umaruddin , 
Abdul Bari Sarkar and others , none of whom except Prafulla Chakravarty 
attended any of the Praja Socialist Party meetings on their own admission . He 
had no personal knowledge, about the propaganda exçept what he gathered from 
the reports from the persons mentioned above and even though we assume that 
the reports made to him were correct, then he heard that Jahanuddin had spoken 
about the Morichbari affair at South Salmara meeting ; but the petitioner s wit 
nesses have almost uniformly ascribed all the four subjects , namely stoppage 
of cow slaughter ban on burial of Muslim dead bodies , singing of Ramdhun gcet 
and Morishbari affair , to have been repeated by all the speakers , indiscriminately 
in all the Praja Socialist Party meetings. This leaves no room for doubt that 
the allegations against the defendants were very much exaggerated and that the 


SEC. $ ( 11) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 20 , 1959 / ASVINA 4, 1881 2479 


witnesses were asked to repeat the self same allegations against all the P . S . P . 
members supposed to be participating in the meetings . In the documents referred 
to above, there were only vague allegations of communal propaganda but there 
was no mention of place or time or of the persons who actually heard or reported 
The allegations came out with some amount of definiteness for the first time only 
when the election petition was fled . I therefore do not find sufficient support 
from the so - called documentary evidence as to the truth of the allegations made 
against Amjad Ali and his other co -workers to the effect that they carried on 
communal propaganda . 

Though the learned Member of the Tribunal has looked to or relied on circum 
stantiul evidence for support of his findings, I find very little justification for this 
view point. It is an established principle of law that one cannot come to a definite 
finding on the basis of circumstantial evidence , unless the evidence can be 
explained on no other hypothesis except that there must be this one conclusion . 
In this case all the evidence that we have is that there was canvassing on com 
munal lines in the last general election by some members or agents of the Praja 
Socialist Party . Assuming it was so , we cannot all at once arrive at the conclusion 
that it must be done by Amjad Ali or his two associates Jahanuddin and Bibhuti 
Bhusan Sarkar . There were six Assembly Constituenc es — five other Praja 
Socialist Party candidates Mere suspicion cannot take the place of evidence . 
Even from the success of Amjad Ali, we cannot say that it was because of this 
canvassing on communal line that he succeeded in winning the election in pre 
ference to the petitioner , who was also a Muslim candidate selected by another 
political party . The result of clection also shows that it was not that the candidates 
from Praja Socialist Party alone succeeded. The Congress Muslim candidates had 
captured the majority of seats for the Provincial Assembly . The success was 
divided . Therefore unless we are in a position to say definitely from the cvidence 
that Anjad Ali and his associates resorted to canvassing on communal lines by 
way of systematic appcal, mere casual references to certain Acts passed by the 
legislature or intended to be passed by the legislature , which are likely to effect 
Muslim minds adversely may not tantamount to an appeal on communal grounds 
Or appeal to religious sentiments . Further there being definite allegations of 
communal propaganda in several places . - -unless we can hold definitely that 
the canvassing has been on communal lines on all or some of those places , WC 
cannot all at once arrive at the conclusion merely from the success of Amjad Ali 
at the election or of Jahanuddin Ahmed , that they must have carried on the 
propaganda on communal lines . Therefore the circumstantial cvidence , as such 
does not induce us to hold that the allegations of corrupt practice as allcged against 
Amjad Ali and his associates have been established . The evidence to my mind 
to be effective should be categorical and not apt to guessing . The Congress or 
the petitioner has not tried to offer any explanation as to why there was no direct 
or frontal opposition to the propaganda if any , in the Praja Socialist Party meetings 
of which the Congress workers got sufficient notice in advance. 


I consider it unnecessary to analyse the cvidence against Jahanuddin Ahmed 
and Bibhuti Bhusan Şarkar separately , since the main brunt of attack has been 
against Amjad Ali. They are alleged to play the second fiddle and in case no 
case is established against Amjad Ali, there is no reason for naming the two 
other persons. 


Another fact that remains is that an election petition challenging the elcction 
of Jalıanuddin Ahmed had already been dismissed for default and in another 
Election case which was heard and decided , Jahanuddin was a party defendant. 
The Election Tribunal found in favour of Jahanuddin and held that the allegation 
of corrupt practices cven by communal propaganda was not substantiated Though 
that judgment may not serve as evidence in this cast , the fact remains that he 
was tried and found not guilty of the offences as alleged . In the state of evidence 
led by the petitioner to which I have already referred , there can be no definite 
conclusion that Jahanuddin or Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar had joined Amjad Ali in 
the matter of carrying on propaganda in the last general election on communal 
lines , which would amount to corrupt practice in the eye of law . The cvidence 
led on behalf of the petitioner , I must say , is of a very poor quality , it having 
rested almost entirely on the testimony of some alleged listeners of the opposite 
camp which was never recorded nor put into writing at the material time by 
any of them . Most of the petitioner s witnesses were partisans, obscure and half 
literate and the few of the prominent members of the Congress party who came 
forward to support the allegations, including the petitioner did not attend any 
of the Praja Socialist Party meetings , nor had they any personal knowledge of 
the statements ascribed to the defendants . 


2480 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 /ASVINA 4 , 1881 


[PART II 


Another important point that arises for our consideration is whether there 
was any onus on the defendants to prove their innocence or the falsity of the 
allegations made against them . The learned Member of the Election Tribunal 
has held that the evidence for the petitioner need not be of such standard as is 
necessary in a criminal case for the purpose of conviction of an accused or that 
the offence alleged need not be proved to the hilt, nor is the defendant entitled 
to the benefit of doubt. The contention for the appellant is that the defendant 
in an Election petition case is entitled to all the benefits in respect of charges 
of corruption , that an accused person is entitled to in a criminal trial and our 
attention has been drawn to the case reported in A . I. R . 1957 s . c . 444 (Harish 
Chandra Bajpal and another v . Triloki Singh and another ) wherein ( at page 456 
the following observation occurs ; — 

" It should not be forgotten that charges of corrupt practices are quası 

criminal in character, and that the allegations relating thereto must 
be sufficiently clear and precise to bring home the charges to the 

candidate ." 
It has been contended on behalf of the appellant that this would indicate clearly 
that the trial was of a quasi- criminal nature and therefore all that applies to a 
criminal trial applies to an election case . In reply to this argument it is sub 
mitted by the learned Advocate General that the procedure to be followed by the 
Election Tribunal is prescribed by section 90 ( 1 ) of the Representation of the People 
Act and it runs as follows: 
" 90 ( 1 ) . Subject to the provisions of this Act and of any rules made therc 

under , every election petition shall be tried by the Tribunal, as nearly 
as may be, in accordance with the procedure applicable under the 
Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 ( Act 7 of 1908 ) , to the trial of 

suits : " * * * * * * * * * * 
The learned Advocate General argued that it is therefore clear that the procedure 
or legal principle applicable to criminal trials will not apply to an election case 
and what the Supreme Court observed was that the charges were of a quasi . 
judicial character and had not said any thing about the standard of proof. Even 
if we hold that the submission on behalf of the respondent by the learned Advocate 
General was correct, we cannot overlook the Supreme Court s observation that 
the allegations relating to the offences must be sufficiently clear and precise to 
bring home the charge to the candidates . This would apply to the nature of 
evidence also . That means that there should be no scope for holding on the basis 
of evidence that the allegations were not fully substantiated and in default, no 
finding of corrupt practice can be safely arrived at. The learned Advocate 
General has tried to impress on us that the finding should be based on the pro 
babilities on weighing the evidence of both sides and it was not for the party alone 
who alleges to substantiate the charge of corrupt practice. He emphasises that 
no principle should be borrowed from a criminal trial but that of a civil suit should 
be followed . The procedure to be followed in an Election case is fully prescribed 
and there is no doubt that it should be of the nature of a civil suit . Section 90 
however , does not indicate or lay down what should be the standard of proof 
necessary to hold a charge of corruption to be substantiated . Every Election case 
does not relate to corrupt practice and the procedure laid down for trial applies 
to all cases. Procedure is something different from the standard of proof. Even 
in Criminal Procedure Code there is no standard laid down as to what should be 
the standard of proof for the purpose of conviction but the law has so developed 
in all civilised countries as to indicate that in criminal trials no finding of guilt 
should be arrived at and the man punished on the basis of evidence which would 
leave a margin for reasonable doubt. In those cases the accused is given the 
benefit or he is found not guilty . This only suggests that the standard of proof 
required for the purpose of finding a man guilty should be of a high order and 
the evidence as exact as conditions would permit. Evidence capable of double 
interpretation will not answer the charge. If we refer to the relevant sections 
of the Representation of the People Act, we find that the same standard of proof 
is necessary to substantiatei an allegation of corrupt practice because it relates to 
a man being " found guilty " which is on par with being " convicted ” and those are 
the words used in some of the sections, e . g ., section 141 of the Representation of 
the People Act, which runs as follows: 
" 141. If any person after the commencement of this Act - - 
( a ) is convicted of an offence punishable with imprisonment under section 

171E or section 171F of the Indian Penal Code ( Act XLV of 1860 ) , or 
of an offence punishable under section 135 or clause ( a ) of sub - section 
( 2 ) of section 136 of this Act, or 


Sec . 3 (ii)) 


THE GAZETEE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26, 1959 / ASVINA 4, 1881 248L 


(b ) is, upon the trial of an election petition under part VI, found guilty of 

any corrupt practice , he shall , for a period of six years from the 
date of the conviction or from the date on which such finding takes 
effect, be disqualified for voting at any election ," 


This would indicate that there is not only scope for conviction of the person under 
certain provisions of the Indian Penal Code for committing corrupt practice, but 
he can be punished as provided under the above section if he is found guilty of 
any corrupt practice. The words " found guilty of any corrupt practice " have 
the same connotation as " found guilty of any other offence " under the Indian Panel 
Code. There cannot be a separate standard of proof for a conviction as pro 
vided under section 141 ( a ) from the standard of proof necessary for the sake of 
a finding under section 141 ( b ) - --both entailing the same measure of punishment. 
Therefore in my opinion the law enjoins suggestively that the standard of proof 
necessary for the purpose of finding a man guilty of any offence of corrupt practice 
under Part VI of the Representation of the People Act , 1951, must be the same 
as for the purpose of finding him guilty or convicting him under the Indian Penal 
Code, which would indirectly mean that in case of reasonable doubt the accused 
should be given the benefit . 


In criminal trials there is no onus on accused to prove his innocence and let 
us see whether the same principle will apply to an election case where quasi 
criminal charges of taking to corrupt practice are brought. In this matter our 
attention has been drawn to one of the earlier decisions of this Court reported 
in A . I. R . 1958 Assam 51 ( Abdul Jalil Choudhury v . Rathindra Nath Sen ) . The 
passage ( at pages 54 - 55 ) runs as follows: 
" Large number of cases were cited to show that the corrúpt practice is in 

the nature of criminal charge and the burden of proof always lies on 
the petitioner to establish corrupt practice . At no stage of the pro 
ceedings the burden is on the defendant. Ag in a criminal trial the 
burden is on the prosecution to establish the charge, similarly in an 
election trial it is for the petitioner to establish the corrupt practice 
by reliable evidence . No objection can be taken to this proposition 

of law . 
When the parties have however , led evidence and the Tribunal has based 

its conclusions on evidence , the question of burden of proof is of not 
much value. It is open to this Court to examine the evidence pro 
duced by the parties and come to its own conclusions whether the 
evidence produced by the petitioner has or has not established the 
charge against the returned candidate . I have however carefully 
examined the judgment and it cannot be said that the Tribunal has 
placed the burden on the appellant. At every stage, the Tribunal 
has emphasised the fact that the burden is on the petitioner to establish 

the charge of corrupt practice ." 
In this case also we must hold that the standard of proof necessary must be of a 
high order so as to leave no room for doubt that the defendants had committed 
the corrupt practice as alleged . I have already expressed my view that the 
evidence in this case is not of such high standard and the learned Member of the 
Tribunal was not correct in my opinion in coming to his findings as he did against 
Amjad Ali, Jahannudin and Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar . 

The learned Advocate General had placed much reliance on the sanctity of 
the finding arrived at by the Election Tribunal and he cited several cases before 
us to show as to what weight the finding of the first court deserves. We have 
no quarrel with any of the decisions cited by him but none of the decisions would 
go to the length of saying that the appellate court is not competent to come to its 
finding on an appraisal of the evidence on record . The only thing required is 
that the appcllate court should pay due regard to the finding arrived at by the 
first court in favour of its views. It is not a case where the finding is based on 
the basis of evidence of a particular witness whom we have disbelieved . The 
case reported in A . I. R . 1951 S . C . 120 ( Sarju Pershad Ramdeo Sahu 7 . Jwaleshwari 
Pratap Narain Singh and others ) cited by the lcarned Advocate General has no 
basis nor the Supreme Court decision in 1956 S . C . R . 691 (Meenakshi Mills , Madurai 
2 . The Commissioner of Income Tax , Madras ) has any application to the facts 
o this case. I consider it unnecessary to prefer to other cases relied on by the 
learned Advocate General on this point, since the point as such has been well 
kettled , 


Another argument advanced by the learned Advocate General with great force 
was that the oral evidence which was given on oath by the petitioner s witnesses , 


2482 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 / ASVINA 1, 1881 


[PART II 


cven though from memory - - should not be lightly treated . While we appreciate 
his anxiety , - it cannot be gain said that it is widely felt that all evidence given 
in court on oath is neither true nor correct, and that is why the necessity of 
examining its worth arises . In this case it is abundantly clear that it was mostly 
the partisans who came to depose in favour of the parties . There was nothing to 
authenticute their presence in the meetings or as to what they had actually heard . 
It is not inconsistent with the theory that their services could be enlisted at a 
later dute — to support the election petition of one for whom they had overwhelming 
sympathy, affiliation or partisanship . I do not say that in no case the oral evi 
dence could be sufficient for the purpose of making out a case of corrupt practice , 
but that would always depend on the quality of evidence and the merit of each 
case . 

In connection with the point of standard of proof I might place below a few 
decisions of the Orissa High Court which have been cited before us. They aid 
A . I. R . 1958 Orissa 260 ( Raghunath Misra v . Kishore Chandra Deo Bhanj and 
others ) and A . I. R , 1959 Orissa 47 (Gokulananda Praharaj 1 . Jogesh Chandra Routh 
and another ) — both of which had referred to earlier decisions of the Supreme 
Court and more particularly , to A . I.R . 1957 S . C . 444 ( Şupra ), Both these cases 
related to standard of proof necessary for the purpose of establishing a corrupt 
practice to invalidate an elcction . 

In 1958 Orissa 260 ( ibid ) in answer to a comment that the respondent had 
cqually an onus to discharge, the learned Judge made the following observations 
(at page 272 ) : 
" But though the non - examination of the respondent may be taken into 

consideration in weighing the evidence yot as in a criminal case it is 
absolutely necessary in an election proceeding that the petitioner 
himself should prove beyond possibility of reasonable doubt by clear 
and unambiguous evidence that the respondent is guilty of a corrupt 

practice." 
In 1959 Orissa 47 (ibid ) the observation ( at page 48 ) is as follows : 

" Now as to the standard of proof required for judging the evidence by 

the parties, it has been held in a long array of cases, both under the 
old and new law , that in the case of allegations of corrupt practices 
the burden of proof is on the petitioner , it nevcr shifts and the 
standard of proof to discharge this burden is the same as in criminal 
cases, that is , the matter requiring proof should be established beyond 
any reasonable doubt and that in case of doubt the benefit should yo 
to the respondent. Though an election petition has to be tried in 
accordance with the procedure applicable to civil suits, the standard 
of proof required in respect of corrupt practices alleged in the petition , 
is the standard applicable to criminal cases , that is to say , corrupt 

practices must be proved beyond any reasonable doubt." 
The view expressed by this court in the earlier case of Abdul Jalil and in the 
instant case finds ample support from the above decisions. 


We have already indicated that to constitute a corrupt practice there should 
be systematic appeal by a candidate or his agent or by any other person to 
vote or refrain from voting on grounds of caste , race, community or religion for 
the furtherance of the prospects of that candidate s election . Here in this casc 
the rival candidates were both Muslims and there was no distinction between 
them as to caste , race, community or religion , but the only point for investigation 
is whether by systematic appeal to the religious or communal sentiment of the 
Muslims Mr. Amjad Ali or his agents wanted to score votes in their favour or 
Amjad Ali s favour at the last election . The Act itself does not describe what is 
a systematic appeal on the ground of community or religion but the word itself 
signifies that the propaganda or appcal should not be casual or perfunctory in its 
naturc but should be followed as a system or as part of a plan to carry on such 
communal propaganda or impeachment of a party or an individual on the ground 
of religion or community . It is not the petitioner s case that Amjad Ali, 
Jahanuddin or Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar wanted to distinguish the case of Nazmul 
Haque or bring his case to censure on the ground of religion or community but 
all that is alleged to be preached was that it was the Congress Government and 
the Congress Party which were responsible for doing certain acts and for passing 
legislations which were prejudicial to Muslim interest or Muslim faith . The main 
allegations were that the Praja Socialist Party people indulged in communal 
propaganda in the sense that they said that Muslims were being humiliated and 


SEC. 5 ( 11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26, 1969 / ASVINA 4 , 1881 2483 


that the Muslim faith wąs being insulted because of the enforcing of the Cattle 
Preservation Act whereby cow slaughter was prohibited . There was further the 
prospect of the banning of the burial of Muslim dead -bodies and singing of 
Ramdhun geet was imposed on Muslim students and teachers. More emphasise 
is alleged to have been given to the cnforcing of the Cattle Preservation Act in 
1956 even though the Act was passed in 1950 . The other allegations were neither 
pressed nor accepted . The petitioner s witnesses themselves have stated that 
singing of Ramdhun geet was not enforced anywhere as a compulsory measure 
in Muslim Schools and there was actually no attempt at pussing any Act banning 
burial of Muslim dead bodies . The bill which came up for consideration before 
the Parliament fell through or was not allowed to be pressed at all and that 
happened in the ycar 1954. The further fact remains that the pctitioner could 
not prove that there was discussion of the above mcasure by the members of the 
Praja Socialist Party in all the meetings as given in the petition in paragraph 10 
for the same. 

Let us see how far the propaganda on the basis of the Cattle Preservation Act 
is substantiated , that being the pivot of attack primarily . Other allegations only 
subscquently came. Amjad Ali himself admitted that there was discussion of 
the Cattle Preservation Act in certain mectings and the hand- bills Ext. P . 1 and 
Ext. P . 10 would also support that this subject was a matter of discussion in certain 
Praja Socialist Party meetings, but can the court on that ground alone hold even 
if such discussions took place, that it was by itself a corrupt practice , unless we 
can have definite information on the point that the measure was discussed to 
Appcal to religious sentiment or the communal feeling of the Muslims and to 
yain votes on that groud . I may refer to onc of the latest decisions of the 
Allahabad High Court reported in A . I. R . 1959 All. 264 (Ghayar Ali Khan v . 
Keshav Gupta ) on this point. That was also an appeal from the decision of an 
Election Tribunal where the election was challenged on similar grounds as in 
this case . The learned Judges while discussing the alleged incriminating hand bill , 
found that there was no appeal to the member of any particular community . In 
the words of the learned Judges 
" It is an appeal to the public in general for the action or the supposed action 

of the political party in power, Even if the appeal is to be members 
of a particular community , it does not necessarily fall within the mis 
chief of Sub - section ( 3 ) of section 123 of the Act , unless the appeal 

is made on the ground of religion or community . 
Suppose the action of the political party in power is criticised on the ground 

that it has passed improper legislation of interfering with the Hindu 
usages and customs in the matter of marriage and divorce and that 
the persons professing Hindu faith should , therefore , vote against 
the candidate set up by such a party . This would be an appeal to 
the members professing a particular religion , but it is not an appeal 
on the ground of religion . 


There may he cases where, in the garb of criticism of the acts or supposed 

acts of a political party , an attempt is made to make an appeal on 

the ground of religion . 
If such is found to be the case, the appcal may be held to fall within the 

mischief of section 123 ( 3 ) of the Act." ( A . I. R . 1959 A11, 264 at page 
270 ) . 


In the Allahabad case there was a hand bill and the nature of the statements 
could be definitely ascertained from the document itself , taking it as a whole , but 
in this case the difficulty is that we do not get an accurate version of what had 
happened and what were the actual words used by the speakers. Therefore it 
would be far more difficult to assess the correct valuc of the statements made by 
the members of the Praja Socialist Party even while discussing those measures , 
which were supposed to be prejudicial to the interest of the Muslims. 

We have already discussed and held that the principle of criminal trial applies 
to the Election cases where corrupt practice is alleged and therefore in case of 
doubt the benefit should go to the person who is alleged to be guilty of corrupt 
practice and in the circumstances of the present case also we must hold that the 
charges of corrupt practice for communal propaganda covered by section 123 ( 3 ) 
of the Representation of the Pcople Act is not made out beyond reasonable daubt, 
in any case. In this connection the learned Member of the Tribunal had referred 
to the casc of Sardul Singh Caveshar v . Hukam Singh ( @ E . L R . 310 ) which he 
quotes with approval. The distinction however , is that in that case all the state 
ments were published in newspapers and the definite statements could be obtained 


2484 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1969 / ASVINA 4 , 1881 


Párt II 


for the purpose of judging as to whether these statements amounted to an appeal 
to vote or refrain from voting on the ground of religion , caste or community , 
Here in this case no such definite statements were obtained or produced before 
the court and even in the petition , the source of information of the prejudicial 
statements alleged to be made is not disclosed. In the circumstances of the case 
we cannot say with any amount of definiteness as to whether the policy of the 
Congress in the matter of passing or enforcing the prejudicial legislation alone 
was criticised or thereby an attempt was made to foster and encourage communal 
sentiments or dissensions betwcen the parties, which the learned Member of the 
Tribunal takes for granted becausc the candidate in question was a Muslim . The 
rival candidate was also a Muslim and he too would have surely stood for the 
Muslim cause . On the matters on the record howcver , we are not at all satisfied 
that there were sufficient materials for coming to a finding that there was 
systematic appeal on ground of religion or community by the defendants on the . 
plea of discussing this legislation . There is very little support for the petitioners 
case that there was appeal to communal feeling on the ground of singing of 
Ramdhun geet or of prospective legislation banning burial of Muslim dead bodies. 
The harassment or mischief in Marisbari alleged to be referred to frequently by 
Jahanuddin - has nowhere been alleged to be fully discussed in any of the 
meetings and we do not believe in any systematic appeal on the ground - except 
that it might be referred to as a bad policy on the part of the State Government 
run by the Congress Party , 


Sed not mary and wash 


The learned Member of the Tribunal found that both parties were trying to 
put their cases sky high so far as oral evidence was concerned and he on assess 
ment of the evidence , mostly documentary and circumstantial as he puts it, came 
to his findings for which we do not find sufficient support from the materials on 
record which I have scrutinised above, If I might respectfully point out, the 
error committed by the Member of the Tribunal was possibly due to the fact that 
he seemed to be under an impression that it is for the defendant or defendant 
to prove their innocence and that Amjad Ali s conduct not having been consistent, 
it was incumbent on the court to presume that since matters by which communal 
sentiments might be roused were discussed in the meetings, it must have formed 
a deliberate plank for systematic appeal on the ground of religion to gain his 
personal ends in the election - and thcreby commit the corrupt practice alleged 
No such hypothetical presumption is valid in law _ and what " one could have 
done" is not the thing to be enquired into , but whether he actually did should 
have been the subject of inquiry . The learned Member of the Tribunal failed to 
avaluate the evidence correctly and as a result arrived at conclusions which we 
do not consider to be reasonable . It is both on points of fact as well as on 
principles of law that we And that the petitioner has failed to make out a case of 
corrupt practice as alleged in the petition and therefore the appeal by Amjad Ali 
is bound to succeed , which we direct accordingly . 


We need not discuss separately about evidence against Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar 
and Jahanuddin Ahmed . I have already pointed out that they had joined Amjad 
Ali in the matter of election campaign and were prominent members of the Praja 
Socialist Party . There are not sufficient materials even against them to establish 
communal propaganda . It is not that they preached on communal lines or 
systematically appealed to the communal feelings of the Muslims with view to 
gain their objective. I have already referred to the election case against 
Jahanuddin , it being dismissed and on the materials before us which we have 
already discussed , it cannot be pointed out with any amount of definiteness that 
these persons had indulged in communal propaganda in the lines suggested by 
the petitioner and his witnesses. The result is that both these appeals are allowed 
and the judgment of the learned Tribunal appealed from , is set aside. The petition 
is dismissed with cost . Hearing fee is fixed at Rs. 400 for appeal No. 38 and 
Rs. 100 for appeal No . 39 . 


I agree . 


( Sd .) C . P . SINHA . 


( Sd .) H . DEKI, Judge. 


Chief Justice . 


(No. 82 / 237 / 57. 1 


Sec . 9 ( il)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 / ASVINA 4, 1881 2485 


New Delhi, the 21st September 1959 
8 . 0 . 2089 . - In pursuance of sub - section ( 6 ) of Section 116A of the Representa 
tion of the People Act, 1951 (43 of 1951 ), the Election Commission hereby publishes 
the decision of the High Court of Madhya Pradesh , Jabalpur, given on the 30th 
July , 1959 on an appeal from the order dated the 27th October , 1958 of the 
Election Tribunal, Gwalior . 


HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH , JABALPUR 

FIRST APPEAL NO . 133 OF 1958 
Chunilal Ken son of Budharam by caste Jatav resident of Balabai Ka Bazar, 
Lashkar -Gwalior , Madhya Pradesh - Appellant. 


Versus 


1. Shri Radhacharan Sharma son of Baldeoprasad caste Brahmin r / o Ambah , 
District Morena. 

2 . Shri Suriya Prasad Chamar son of Harlram r / o Madhavganj, Lashkar . 
3. Shri Atam Das son of Jiwan Das rlo Hemsingh -ki-parade, Lashkar , 
Deleted vide Court s order Dt/ - 20 -4 -59 . Sd / - Illegible. R . Dt/ - 20 / 4 / 59 . 
5 . Shri Chaturbhuj son of Pannala ) Jatav r / o Kampoo Road , Lashkar , 
6 . Narayanrao Shejwalkar son of Pt. Krishnarao Advocate , Nai Sadak , Lashkar 
Deleted vide Court s order D / - 20 -4 -59. Sd / - Illegible. R . 20 / 4 /59. 

8 . Shri Navalsingh , son , of Kaarpal Singh , Village Barua , Noorabad , P . O . 
Motijheel, Pargana Gird , Gwalior. 

9 . Shri Ramdayal Singh son of Janak Singh Thakur , Rajput Sewa Saingh , 
New Road , Ratlam Respondents, 

Appeal by petitioner from the Judgment of the Court of the Member , Election 
Tribunal, Gwalior presided in by Shri V . K . Dongre dated the 30th September 1957 
in Election Petition No . 433 of 1957 Original claim for Election Petitioner u / s 80 
of the Representation of the People Act 1951 Decrced for Election Petitjon dismissed 

. . Claim in appcal for Appeal u / s 116A of the Represen 
tation of People Act (Act 43 of 1951 ) of India . .. .. . .. 

. . . . . , , Memo, 
of appeal presented by Shri A , B . Misra , Advocate , Counsel for appellant, on 27th 
November 1958 , 

The appeal coming on for Anal hearing on 11th May 1959, 12th May 1959 and 
13th May 1959 before the Honourable Shri Justice K . L . Pandey and the Honourable 
Shri Justice N . M . Golwalkar in the presence of Shri A . B . Mishra Counsel for 
the appellant, and of Shri P . L . Dubey and K . K Dubey Counsel for the Respondents 
No. 1 and 2 and of none for other respondents , the following fudgment was 
dellvered by the Court : 


FIRST APPEAL No. 133 OF 1958 , 
Chunnilal 2 . Radhacharan Sharma and others 

JUDGMENT 
This appeal under section 116A of the Representation of the People Act , 1951 
(hereinafter called the Act ) , arises out of an election in the Gwalior double 
member constituency to the House of People . The nine respondents here and one 
Murlidharsingh , who died before the fling of the election petition , were candidates 
for the two seats . Suriyaprasad (respondent 2 ) , Atmadas ( respondent 3 ) , Chatur 
bhut ( respondent 5 ) and Deviram ( respondent 7 ) contested the reserved seat, and 
the other six contested the general seat, Votes were recorded at the various polling 
stations in the constituency on different dates between 25 February 1957 and 
16th March 1957. The result of the poll declared on 19th March 1957 was as 


follows : 


( 1) Radhacharan Sharma (respondent) 
( 2 ) Suriyaprasad (respondent 2 ) 
(3 ) Murlidharsingh (now dead ) 
(4 ) Atmadas (respondent 3 ) 
(5 ) Baburao Patel (respondent 4 ) 
( 6 ) Chaturbhuj (respondent 5 ) 


1 , 35 ,081 
98 , 871 
89 .975 
70,883 
55 ,230 
52 ,878 


2486 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 / ASVINA 4 , 7881 (PRT II 

= = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = I 
(7 ) Narayanrao (respondent 6 ) 

38 ,023 
( 8 ) Deviram (respondent 7 ) 

35 , 434 
(9 ) Ramdayal Singh (respondent 9 ) 

32 ,655 
( 10 ) Naval Singh ( respondent 8 ) 

30,668 
While Radhacharan Sharma was declared elected to the general seat, Suriyaprasad 
was declared elected to the reserved seat . 


2 . The appellant, Chunnilal, who is an elector in the aforesaid constituency, 
filed an election petition under section 80 of the Act challenging the return of 
Radhacharan Sharma and Suriyaprasad on several grounds. It was alleged that 
Atmadas (respondent 3 ) was, at the relevant time, a contractor for the execution 
of many works for the Central Government and was , therefore, disqualifed for 
being chosen as, or being , a member of the House of People . Since he was 
debarred from standing as a candidate, his nomination paper was improperly 
accepted . The consequence was that the result of the election , in so far as the 
candidate returned to the reserved seat was concerned , WAS materially affected . 
It was further alleged that the returned candidates or their agents , acting with 
their knowledge , consent or connivanie, indulged in a number of corrupt practices . 
These were detailed in paragraphs 10 ( a ) 10 ( g ) of the election petition and perti 
cularised in Lists A to G annexed to the petition . It was accordingly claimed 
that tlle election of the returned candidates he declared to be void . 


3 . Of the nine respondents , the respondents 1, 2 and 5 filed their written state 
Incnts. However, only the first two respondents ( returned candidates ) effectively 
contested the petition . They pleaded inter alia that the netition did not disclose 
a concise statement of inaterial facts on which it was based and did not also 
set forth full particulars of the alleged corrupt practices . The Election Tribunal 
considered this matter , along with other preliminary issues aud , by an order 
dated 30 September 1957, directed that paragraphs 10 ( h ) , ( c ), ( d ) and ( e ) along 
with the particulars relevant thereto he struck of the corresponding issues 11, 
12. 13 and 14 be deleted and issue no . 17 be amended so as to restrict it to the 
particulars mentioned in List G ( 1). Thereupon , on 5 October 1957, the appellant 
made an application seeking permission to amend the petition and the particulars , 
including the averments in paragraph 10 ( f ) and the particulars in Lists A and F . 
The Election Tribunal, by an order dated 12 October 1957 , declined to allow the 
appellaut to introduce at that stage new materials , 


4 . The appellant Aled in this Court Miscellaneous Petition No. 215 of 1957 
under Article 228 of the Constitution challenging the order dated 30 September 
1957 passed by the Election Tribunal. That petition was dismissed on 17 April 1958 . 


5 . In the judginont delivered on 27 October 1958 , the Election Tribunal, Gwalior , 
found that, at the relevant time, Atmadas ( respondent 3 ) was a contractor for 
execution of works for the Central Government within the meaning of section 7 ( d ) 
of the Act, that he was, therefore, disqualified for standing as a candidate for 
election to the reserved seat and that his nomination paper was improperly 
accepted . Even so , it was held that it was not proved that the improper acceptance 
of the nomination paper of Atmadas had inaterially affected the result of thc 
election , so far as it concerned Suriyaprasad , the candidate returned to the 
reserved seat. The Election Tribunal further held that the returned candidates 
had not indulged in the corrupt practices alleged against them and dismissed the 
election petition , 


6 . It is urged before us that the Election Tribunal acted illegally in striking 
off issues 11 , 12 , 13 and 14 And amending issue no . 17 merely on the ground of 
vagueness of the averments relating to corrupt practices and failure to give the 
required particulars thereot. It is well- scttled that an electioni tribunal can 
refuse to try a matter , which , for want of precise averments or particulars , does 
not arise a precise issue : Hari Vishnu Kamath v . Election Tribunal. Jabalpur 
(XIV Election Law Reports 147) . Indeed , it was pointed out in the Miscellaneous 
Petition arising out of this very case that the order in question did no more : 
Chunilal v . Radhacharan and another (Miscellaneous Petition No 215 of 1957 
decided on 17 April 1958 ). 


7 . It is , however , contended that in view of sub - section ( 5 ) of section 90 of 
the Act. as interpreted in Kamath s case ( city . sup .) , the Election Tribunal WAS 
not justified in throwing out the appellant s petition for amendment made for the 
purpose of removing some of the defects noticed in the order datel 30 September 
1951. 


SEC . 5 (L )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26, 1959 /AŞVINA 4, 1881 2487 


LEN 


he 


Sub -section (5 ) of section 90 of the Act is as follows: 
" The Tribunal may, upon such terms as to costs and otherwise as it inay 

deem fit, allow the particulars of any corrupt practice alleged in the 
petition to be amended or amplified in such nianner as may in its 
cpinion be necessary for ensuring a lair and effective trial of the 
petition , but shall not allow any amendment of the petition which will 
have the effect of introducing particulars of a corrupt practice not 

previously alleged in the petition ." 
This provision not only is thus restricted to amendments relating to the particulars 
oľ any alleged corrupt practice, but also prohibits the introduction of pal 
ticulars of a corrupt practice not previously alleged in the petition . In our 
opinion , a pctitioner , who has not set forth full particulars of any corrupt practice 
in accordance with the requirements of section 83 ( 1 ) ( b ) of the Acţ , has no right to 
claim to give the particulars at a subsequent stage , Sub - section ( 5 ) of section 
90 of the Act, however , vests in the Election Tribunal a discretion to allow or not to 
allow an amendment of the particulars given in the original petition . This discre 
tion the Election Tribunal has to exercise judicially fur ensuring a fair and ellcctive 
trial of the petition : krishic Chandra Sharma v . Rishabh Kurnar and others 
( First Appeal No . 91 of 1958 decided on 2 February 1959 ) . The question which 
we have to consider is whether , in the Instant case , the discretion was properly 
exercised . 

8 . In this case , the election petition was filed on 30th April 1957 . The written 
statements of the contesting respondents , which focussed attention on the vagueness 
of averments relating to corrupt practices and want of particulars tlicreof, were 
filed on 17th August 1957. Since the appellant did not accept that his petition wes 
defective, issues , framed on 22nd August 1957, included the points raised in the 
inatter by the contesting respondents . The first six issues were treated as prelimi 
nary issues and the arguments of parties thereon were hcard on 14th September , 
1957 and 17th September , 1957 . Tkreupon , the impugncd order was passed 
on 30th September , 1957 . The appellant did not apply for amendment of 
his pctition until he was confronted with an adverse order . Even then no attempt 
was made to explain why the allegations sought to be introduced by the applica 
tion for amendment were not made in the original petition and why the applica 
tion was made after much delay . The Supreme Court, whiclı considered a similar 
question , observed in Harish Chandra v , Triloki Singh ( A . I. R . 1957 S . C . 444 ) as 
follows: 
" Counsel for the appellants also contended that even if the Tribunal had 

the power under Order 6 , Rule 17 to permit an amendment raising a new 
charge , it did not under the circumstances cxcrcise a sound and 
Judiccial discretion in permitting the amendment in question . There 
is considerable force in this contention , The election petition was 
filed un 10th June 1952 which was the last date allowed under Section 
81 and Rule 119 . It contained in para 7 ( C ) only the bare bones of 
a charge under Section 133 ( 8 ) , assuming that it could be spelt out of 
it . Nothing further is heard of this charge , until we came to December , 
1952 when respondents 4 and 9 who sailed with the petitioner , filed 
statements allcging that the appellants had obtained the assistance 
from Government servants including Mukhias in furtherance of their 
election prospects . On January 16 , 1953 the respondent herein 
filcci a replication in which hc sought to wcaye the above allegations 
into the fabrle of his petition , but the result was a mere patrhwork . 
It should be mentioned that there is no provision of law under which 
a replication could be filed as a matter of right, nor was there an 
order of the Tribunal allowing it . On 25th February 1953, the 
appellants opcned their arguments at the hearing of the preliminary 
issue, and thereafter , with a view to rernedy the defects which must 
have been then pointed out, the respondent filed his present application 
for amendment. Even that was defective , and had to be again aniended . 
And what is remarkablc about this application is that no attempt 
was made to explain why it was made after such long delay and why 
the new allegations were not made in the original petition The 
position taken up by the respondents that the amendment only made 
express what was implicit in para 7 ( c ) . The Tribunal was of opinion 
1hat notwithstanding all these features , the amendment should be 
allowed as it was in the interests of the public that purity of elections 
should be maintained . But then , public interest equally demand that 
election disputes should he dctermined with despatch That is the 
reason why a special jurisdiction is created and Tribunals are 
constituted for the trial of election petitions. Vide the observations 
of Lord Simonds L . in $ enanayake v . Navaratne, 1954 A . C . 640 . 


2488 THE GAZETIE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 / ASVINA 4 , 1881 


Parr II 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


= 


In the present case , having regard to the circumstances stated above, the 

order of amendment would be open to grave criticism even if it had 
been made in an ordinary litigation , and in an election matter , it is 

indefensible ." 
In our view , in the circumstances of this case , the Election Tribunal exercised 
its discretion properly in refusing , at that stage, leave to introduce new matters 
over and above those permitted by the order dated 30th September , 1957. 

9 . We have next to consider whether the improper acceptance of the nomination 
paper of Atnjadas ( respondent 3 ) materially affected the result of the election 
so far as It concerned the returned candidate Suriyaprasad . In support of the 
contention that the result of the election was materially affected , the appellarit 
examined about 25 witnesses. The Election Tribunal considered the evidence in 
paragraphs 18 to 36 of its order . The witnesses gencrally stated that if Atmadas 
had not been in the field , the votes secured by him wouki have been cast in 
favour of Chaturbhuj (respondent 5 ) . In commending that tha evidence should 
be accepted , it is explained that since Atmadas was the president of the Jatav Sabha , 
all Jatavas cast their votes in his favour. If he were not in the field , Jatavas would 
have voted for Chaturbhuj, also a Jatav. As a matter of fact , Jatavas had decided 
to vote for Chaturbhuj but, when they learnt about the nomination of Atmadas , 
they changed their minds and preferred him . Thus it came about that Chaturbhuj 
secured , only 52,678 votes when , iſ Almadas were not in the field the bulk of the 
70 , 863 votes cast in his favour would have gone to Chaturbhuj and so exceeded 
the numher of votes, 98 ,671, cast in his favour of the returned candidate . Against , 
this , it is contended on behalf of the contesting respondents that Atmadas, who 
was associated with the Congress party for a long time before 1952 secured a large 
number of Harijan votes and that in his absence , thoso votes would have been 
Cast in favour ot the returned Congress candidate Suriyaprasad who would have 
in conscquence , won by a much larger margin . 


10 . The contention that the result of the election was materially affected is based 
on the evidence of witnesses examined by the appellant who stated how they would 
have cast their votes If Atmadas had not contested the election to the reserved 
seat. We have gone through the evidence of these witnesses with which we are not 
impressed . Even apart from that , we consider that the question whether or not 
the result of the election was materially aftected cannot be decided only upon 
what these witnesses chose to say . In Vashist Narain Sharma y . Dev Chand ( X 
Election Law Reports 30 ) , their Lordships of the Supreme Court , wh :) dealt with an 
identical question , observed : 
" It is agreed that in the Arst case the result of the election is not materially 

affected because if all the wasted votes are added to the votes of the 
candidate securing the next highest votes, it will make no difference to 
the result and the returned candidate will retain the seat. In the 
other two cases it is contended that the result 13 materially affected . 
So far as the third case is concerned , it may be readily conceded that 
such would be the conclusion . But we are not prepared to hold that thc 
mere fact that the wasted votes are greater than the margin of votes 
between the returned candidate and the candidate securing the next 
highest number of votes must lead to (he necessary inference that the 
result of the election has been materially affected . That is a matter 
which has to be proved and the onus of proving it les upon the 
petitioner . It will not do merely to say that all or a majority of the 
wasted votes might have gone to the next highest candidate , The 
casting of votes at an election depends upon a variety of factors and 
it is not possible for any one to predict how many or which proportion 
of the votes will go to one or the other of the candidates . While 
it must be recognised that the petitioner in such a case is confronted 
with a dificult situation , it is not possible to relieve him of the duty 
imposed upon him by section 100 ( 1 ) ( c ) and hold without evidence 
that the duty has been discharged . Should the petitioner fall to adduce 
satisfactory evidence to enable the court to find in his favour on this 
point, the inevitable result would be that the Tribunal would not 
interfere in his favour and would allow the election to stand ." 


" It is impossible to accept the ipse dirit of witnesses coming from one side 

or the other to say that all or some of the votes would have gone 
to one or the other on some supposed or imaginary ground . The 
question is one of fact and has to be proved by positive evidence . If 
the petitioner is unable to addụce evidence in a case such as the 


SEC . 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 / AŞVINA 4, 1881 2489 

= 

-- 
present, the only inescapable conclusion to which the Tribunal can 
come is that the burden is not discharged and that the election must 
stand. Such result may operate harshly upon the petitioner seeking 
to set aside the election on the ground of linproper acceptance of a 
nomination paper, but neither the Tribunal, nor this Court is (on 
cerned with the inconvenience resulting from the operation of the 
Law . How this state of things can be reinedled is a matter entirely 
for the Legislature to consider . " 


That decision was followed a Division Bench of unis Court in Inayatullah Khan 
v . Diwanchand Mahajan (XV Election Law Report 219 ) . The observations are : 
" From these observations it is , therefore, clear that general evidence of a 

likellhood , such as has been tendered in this case , is not decisive of the 
matter under section 100 of the Representation of the People Act , 
What the party who wishes to get an election declared void has to 
establish is that result of the poll had In fact becn materially allected 
by the improper acceptance of a nomination paper , To do this , it 
has to be demonstrated that the votes would have been divided in 
such a way that the returned candidate would have been unsuccessful. 
We consider that the matter is not res integra , and our vicw of the 
matter is irrelevant. Their Lordships also noted with regret the 
difficulty of establishing such a result by concrete evidence and stated 
that the matter could only be rectified by the Legislature and not by 
the Courts . According to their Lordships, the onus which was placed 
upon the contending party was insuperable and incapable of being 
discharged . Indeed , the Legislature in laying that burden seems to ask 
the contestant to do the impossible . We do not consider that the 
matter is open to us to express a different view and applying the 
ruling to the facts of the case , which are analogous to those in the 
case which their Lordships decided , we must hold that the evidence 
tendered is not sufficient to discharge the onus which was upon 
Mahajan " 


11. It was argued that since Vashist Narain s case ( cit sup.) was decided , the 
Supreme Court modifled its view express in that case. Our attention was drawn 
to the following obscrvations in Surendra Nath v . s . Dalip Singh ( A . I. R . 1957 
S . C . 242 ) : 
" It appears that though the words of the section are in general terms with 

equal application to the case of improper acceptance , as also of impro 
per rejection of a nomination paper , case law has made a distinction 
between the two classes of cases. So far as the latter class of cases 
ic concerned , it may be pointed out that almost all the Election Tri 
bunals in the country have consistently taken the view that there is a 
presumption in the case of improper rejection of a nomination paper 
that it has materially affected the result of the election . Apart from 
the practical difficulty , almost the fmpossibility of demonstrating that 
the electors would have cast their votes in a particular way , that is 
to say, that a substantial number of them would have cast their 
votes in favour of the rejected candidate , the fact that one of the 
several candidates for an election had been kept out of the arena is by 
Itselt a very material consideration . Cages can easily be imagined 
where the most desirable candidate from the point of view of electors 
and the most formidable candidate from the point of view of electors 
and the most formidable candidate from the point of view of the 
other candidates may have been wrongly kept out from seeking 

election . 
By keeping out such a desirable candidate , the officer rejecting the nomination 

paper may have prevented the electors from voting for the best candi 
date available . On the other hands, in the case of an improper 
acceptance of a nomination paper , proof may easily be forthcoming to 
demonstrate that the coming into the arcnn of an additional candidate 
has not had any effect on the election of the best candidate in the 
feld . The conjecture therefore is permissible that the Legislature 
realising the difference between the two classes of cases has given 
legislative sanction to the view by amending Section 100 by the 
Representation of the People ( Second Amendment) Act, 27 of 1956, and 
by going to the Length of providing that an improper rejection of 
any nomination paper is conclusive proof of the election being void ." 


- - - 


2490 THE GAZE CTE OF INDIA SEPI EMBER 26 , 1959 / ASVINA 1, 1881 [PART II 

- - - - - - 
In our view , in the observations quoted above , thcir Lordships were considering 
the reasons which led the Legislature to distinguish between an improper rejection . 
and an improper acceptance , of a nomination paper and to provide, by the Repre 
sentation of People (Second Amendment) Act , 27 of 1956 , that an improper rejection 
of a nomination paper would render the election Ilable to be declared void . We 
do not find anything in these observations to support the contention that the view 
taken in Vashist Narain s case has been modified . 

12 We were also referred to the judgment in Jamuna Prasad V . Jagdish 
Prasad Khare (.XIII Election Law Reports 1 ) . There the Supreme Court had to 
consider an identical question . Since the Vindhya Pradesh Legislative Assembly , 
to which the successful candidate was clected , had ceased to exist. their Lordships 
of the Supreme Court did not consider it expedient to decide the question . 

13. Following the ruling of the Supreme Court in Vashist Narain s case we hold 
that, by allowing Atmadas to contest the election to the reserved seat , the result 
of the election was, on the evidence led in the case , not proved to have been 
materially affected . 

14 . We now take up the ground relating to undue influence . The allegations 
were these : 

( i) The Maharaja of Gwalior toured in the constituency and delivered 

lectures in support of the respondents 1 and 2 at Bhind , Ambah and 

Morena . 
( ii) The handwritten messages of the Maharaja and his appeal to the Pub 

lic Ext. P - 1 , P - 5 , P - 6 , P - 8 , P 44, P - 48 , P - 49 and P 65 , were 
printed and distributed in the constituency . While in some of these 
documents, he has described as the Maharaja of Gwalior , in many 

others his photograph , printed in regal robes, appeared prominently , 
( iii) The Public speeches delivered by Maharani Vijaya Raje Scindia at 

several places in Guna district ( outside the constituency ) were pub 
lished in the issue of a newspaper, Nava Prabhat dated 26th February , 
1957. Therein she claimed to have decided to contest the seat by 
order of the Maharaja and uttered a threat. Copies of the aforcsaid 

issue of the newspaper were distributed in the constituency . 
( iv ) Tho respondents 1 and 2 and their agents, who disseminated the mes 

sages of the Maharaja of Gwalior and the speeches of the Maharani, 
knew that they no longer ruled over the territory . Even so, they 
adopted the fraudulent device of showing that the messages and 
speeches emanated from the Maharaja and the Maharani and thereby 

exercised undue influence over the electors of the constituency . 
( v ) Kishan Chand Dulani, a Congress leader , issued a statement published 

in the Naya Prabhat ( ex . P - 47 ) which was calculated to exercise 

undue influence and bribe the voters of the constituency , 
15 . It has been found by the Election Tribunal, and is accepted before us, that 
there is no evidence to show that the Maharaja of Gwalior went to any place 
other than Ambah for lending support to the respondents 1 and 2 It is in the 
evidence of the Maharaja ( P . W . 67 ) that he was at Ambah on 18th February , 1957 
to the foundation stone of an Intermediate College . He admitted having address 
ed a gathering at that station though he could not say if his speech was correctly 
reproduced in a report ( not on record ) , which was shown to him . The Election 
Tribunal did not consider that report for the reason that no reference was made 
to it in the relevant particulars . Assuming however that the Maharaja made a 
speech to support the Congress candidato ( respondents 1 and 2 ) . We are of the 
view that this, by itself, could not constitute undue influence. The reason is this. 
The Maharaja is not debarred from supporting a candidate only because the latter 
is seeking election from a constituency over which the Maharaja , ruled in the past. 
It may well be that the Maharaja , being the ex -ruler , wields some influence . But, 
under the election law , no exception can be taken to mere exercise of influence . 

16 . The Maharaja ( P . W . 67 ) admitted that Ex. P - 1 and Ex. P - 8 were the 
photo copies of the appeal issued by him . He also accepted that Ex . P _ 48A 
was the printed copy of the message issued under his directions from the Guna 
constituency . Ex . P — 6 is the same as Ex, P - 1 , and P45 is similar , the difference 
being only in the robes in which the printed photographs of the Maharaja 
appears in the two documents . While in Ex , P - 1, the words " Maharaja of 
Gwalior " appear below the signature , there are words at the top in Ex . P - 5 and 


SEC. 8 (ii)] HE (117ELIE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 20 , 1959 /ASVINA 4, 1881 2491 
= - -- - 

= 
- 

= 

= - - = 
Ex . P - 6 indicating that each was a handwritter appeal to the voters by the 
Maharaja of Gwalior. Ex . P - 8 is a like document with this difference that the 
person issuing the appcal is described as “Maharaja Jiwajirao Scindia " and not 
as the Maharaja of Gwalior . Ex . P - 48A is a printed copy of the message issued 
by the Maharaja for the Guna - Bhelsa constituency , where his wife was a candi 
date for election to the House of the People. The title of the document is 
" Message of Maharaja Scindia to the People " . Also , at the foot, the words 
" Maharaja of Gwalior" appear below the name Jiwajirao Scindiu . Ex . P - 44 and 
Ex . P - 65 arc exact copies of Ex , P - 48A . It would thus appear that the appeal 
to voters Ex . P - 1 and the message to People Ex . P - 48A emanated from the 
Maharaja . 


17. In view of the evidence of Ramchandra Vasant Wagle ( P . W . 1 ) . Manager 
of the Lok Kala Printing Press, and Ramchandra Sidhanath ( P . W . 29 ) , Manager of 
the Nutan Printing Press , it appears that Ex . P - 1 and Ex. P - 48A were printed 
at the instance of Jejuriker, a clerk in the office of Ram Sahai, who worked as 
election agent of the Maharani for her Guna - Bhelsa constitucncy . It is however 
clear from the testimony of Bhimsen ( P . W . 2 ), Manager of Modern Printing Press , 
Lashkar, that he printed Exs. P - 5 , P - 6 , and P - 8 for the Gwalior City Congress 
Committee , which worked for Congress candidates including the respondents l and 
2 . We, therefore, ugree with the Election Tribunal that only Exs . P - 5 , P - 6 and 
P - 8 were printed for the Gwalior constituency . Even so , as we would show in 
a moment, copies of Ex . P - 48A were also distributed in that constituency . 


18 . The Election Tribunal considered in paragraphs 74 to 79 of its judgment 
the question whether the leaſlcts and thc messages like Exs. P - 1 , P - 5 , P - 6 , 
P - 8 and P -44 were delivered to the voters in the constituency . The Election 
Tribunal came to the indubitable conclusion that such leaflets and messages were 
distributed in the constituency by Congress workers in furtherance of the election 
prospects of the l espondents 1 and 2 . Since that finding is not now challenged 
by the two respondents , we do not consider it necessary to scrutinize the evidence 
bearing on the point. 


19 . Our attention was pointedly drawn to the evidence of Khachchuram 
( P . W . 7 ) , Murliram ( P . W . 8 ) , Ramcharan ( P . W . 10 ), Baijnath ( P . W . 11 ) , 
Mohansingh ( P . W . 13 ), Deolal ( P . W . 15 ) , Ramjidas ( P . W . 16 ) , Lalloosingh 
( P . W . 17 ) , Kunwar Pal ( P . W . 19 ) , Ramchandra ( P . W . 20 ) , Parshadi ( P . W . 22 ) , 
Jagdish ( P . W . 23 ) , Parbatsingh ( P . W . 24 ) , Haribhau ( P . W . 34 ) and Umacharan 
( P . W . 35 ) , who stated that, when the pamphlets and messages were distributed 
it was given out that the Maharaja had rogained his kingdom or that he would 
get it back or that it was the order of the Maharaja that the electors must vote 
for the Congress or that, if they failed so to do, there would be trouble . The Elec 
tion Tribunal was not impressed by the cvidence of which we too are not inclin 
ed to take a different view . That apart , we ard of opinion that the entire evidence 
on this aspect of the matter cannot be considered for the reason that the allcged 
exercise of undue influence in this manner was not disclosed in the particulars 
given in List F . 

20 . We have next to consider whether the Maharaja s appeal to the voters 
and his message to the people can be regarded as calculated to cxercise undue 
influence on the clectors. We reproduce below the relevant excerpts : 
" For the uplift of the country and the welfare of the people , please cast 

your vote in the (ballot ) box (bearing ) a pair of bullock (as the 

symbol) for the Congress candidate, of your constituency " . [Ex . P - 1 ] . 
“ Therefore , in the interests of the nation and in order to strengthen the 

Congress and the hands of the leader of the nation , Pandit Jawaharlal 
Nehru , I too have given permission to my wife, Shrimant Maharani 
Vijaya Raja Scindia , to stand as a candidate on the Congress ticket 
for election to the Lok Sabha from the Guna - Bhelsa constituency . 


Hence this is my earnest appeal to the people that they should co - operate 

in the country s planned reconstruction by voting only for the 
Congress in all constituencies ." [ Ex . P - 48A . ] 


It is conceded before us that there is nothing in the words of the appeal or the 
message which could be regarded even remotely as calculated to exercise any 
undue influence on the electors. That being so , we need not dwell any longer 
on this aspect of the matter . 


2492 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 /ASVINA 4, 1881 


Part 11 


21 . It is , however , urged that in the leaflets and pamphlets in which the appeal 
and the message were conveyed to the voters , the author was described as the 
Maharaja of Gwalior and his photograph printed in legal robes wus prominently 
displayed . It is also contended that since titles were abolished by Article 18 of 
the Constitution and Article 362 made no reference to titles , tha author could 
not arrogate to himself the title of Maharaja of Gwalior . In this situation , by 
describing him as the Maharaja of Gwalior , the respondents 1 and 2 adopted a 
fraudulent device to impress upon the voters that he was a person in authority 
and that his appeal had to be obeyed like an order . Thus the respondents inter 
fered with the free exercise of the right of the clectors to vote for any candidate 
of their choice . In our opinion , these contentions are not well- founded . Article 
18 does not strike at the titles of Rulers existing on the date of commencement 
of the Constitution under the pre - Constitution covenants , which are cxpressly 
saved by Article 362. According to Oxford Dictionary and the Concise Law 
Dictionary by Osborn , the word dignity includes title . It would further appcar 
that under Clause 13 of the Covenant entered into by the author, he continues to 
be entitled to use the title " Maharaja of Gwalior " . Therefore , there was nothing 
wrong in describing him as the Maharaja of Gwalior . Also , we do not think the 
mere use of that title exercised , or was calculated to exercise, any undue influence 
upon the voters. In the situation as existing in the beginning of 1956 , the electors 
knew well that the Maharaja had ceased to rule for about 8 years and they could 
not possibly be misled in the sense suggested by his use of the title . We are , 
therefore, clearly of opinion that the plea of undue influence founded on thiş 
ground is without substance . 

22. The counsel for the appellant has referred to Ex . P - 46, which is a report 
of a certain speech made by the Maharani Vijaya Raje Scindia ( P . W . 70 ) publish 
ed in an issue of the Daily Nava Prabhat dated 26th February, 1957. She deliver 
ed the speech in the constituency from which she was seeking clection . She 
denied that, in her speech , she made the following two statements : 
" The Maharaja has ordered ( stated to ) me that subjects are like your 

children ." 
" Today Congress has power. If it wants, it can take votes from you by 

force of arms. But no, it has given rights to the people . Therefore , 
I entreat you to please see who has advanced the country and under 
whosc banner persons intoxicated with the love of the country play 
ed Holi with their own blood and secured freedom of the country." 


We do not consider that these statements , even if they were made by the 
Maharani, were calculated to threaten , or exercise undue influence on the voters . 


23 . It is urged that the report of the aforesaid specch published in the Daily 
Nava Prabhat dated 26th February , 1957 was obtained by the respondents 1 and 2 
and their agents , and widely circulated in the Gwalior constituency . This is not 
what was alleged in the particulars [ Last paragraph of page 2 of List F ) . All that 
wag stated there was that since the Daily Nava Prabhat supported ali Congress 
candidates, it was the agent of the respondents 1 and 2 . Perhaps the implication 
was that, as such agent, it published the second part of the speech of the Maharani 
quoted in the last paragraph and it was circulated amongst the readers of the 
paper in the normal way . That being so , even apart from the finding of the learn 
ed Member of the Election Tribunal recorded in paragraph 90 of his judgment to 
the effect that there was no reliable evidence that copies of the relevant issue of 
Nava Prabhat were either distributed or extracts therefrom were read out to the 
public by agents of the respondents 1 and 2 , we are of opinion that the evidence 
tending to show that the agents of the respondents 1 and 2 other than the news 
paper itself, widely circulated that speech cannot be considered . The reason is 
obvious. Being a corrupt practice alleged by the appellant, he had to give full 
particulars , including as full a statement as possible of the names of the parties 
alleged to have committed such corrupt practice and the date and place of com 
mission of each such practice ( Section 83 ( 1 ) ( b ) of the Act] . We are further of 
opinion that the Daily Nava Prabhat, which generally supported the Congress 
candidate , did not, by the mere fact that it published the aforesaid speech of the 
Maharani, become the " agcnt" of the respondents 1 and 2 in connection with their 
election within the meaning of that word in sections 99, 100 and 123 of the Act . 
Finally , as shown , the speech itself was not objectionable as calculated to threaten 
or exercise undue influence on the voters. Agreeing with the Election Tribunal , 
we held that the publication of the spcech , said to have been delivered by the 
Maharani of Gwalior , in the Nava Prabhat issued on 26th February , 1957 does not 
constitute any corrupt practice employed by the respondents 1 and 2 . 


SEC . 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 /ASVINA 1, 1881 2493 


24 . We were also referred to Ex . P -47, the relevant extracts of which are as 
under : 


" We should choose our representative that person who would not merely 

be a Sindhi but would be one who would render assistance in securing 
for us, from time to time, help from Government. Government is 
Congress ( There is Congress Government) and therefore only Con 
gress member can help us. But he would help us only when we do 
our duty in making Congress successful. Besides, here Sindhis are 
in numbers like salt in flour -nominal." 


" Theretore , I appeal to all voters, and particularly Sindhis , to do their duty 

and prove that the entire population of Lashkar endorses the policy 
of Nehruji by voting cent per cent for the Congress ." 


In our view , the entire statement Ex . P -47, including the extracts quoted above , 
to which the appellant has taken exception , is a reasoned appeal to Sindhis in 
particular to vote for Congress candidates . Sindhis , being refugcęs , always stand 
in need of Government assistance . The author , therefore , auvised the Sindhis to 
vote for a candidate who would render help in obtaining such assistance in future 
from Government. We do not consider that this statement amounts to bribing or 
undue influence within the meaning of section 123 of the Act . 


25. The statement Ex , P -47, purporting to have been issued by one Kishan 
Chand Dulani, was published in an issue of the Daily Nava Prabhat. Kishan 
Chand Dulani was not examined . Kirti Deo Shukla ( P . W . 27 ) , editor of the 
paper , could not say from which source he obtained the statement. Even if 
Kishan Chand Dulanı be regarded as responsible for publishing the statement, 
there is no evidence to show that he did so at the instance of the respondents I and 
2 or with their consent. We arc , therefore, of opinion that on account of the 
statement Ex . P -47 no corrupt practice is attributable to the respondents 1 and 2 . 


26. The other points raised in the grounds of appeal have not been pressed 
before us. 


27. Having regard to the view that we have taken of the various points urged 
before us, this appcal fails and is dismissed . In this Court, the appellant shall 
bear his own costs and pay those of the respondents 1 and 2 . Hearing fee Rs. 200 
which shall be paid out of the security amount. The remaining amount in 
deposit shall be refunded to the appellant. 

( Sd ) N . M . GOLVALKAR , 
(Sd.) K L . PANDEY , 
Judge , 

The 30th July , 1959 . 
The 30th July , 1959. 


Judge, 


[No. 82 / 433 /57 / 16754 .1 
C . B . LAL , Under Secy , 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 


New Delhi, the 18th September 1959 


S . O . 2090. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 4 , 10 , 17 and 27 of 
thc Indian Arms Act , 1878 , ( 11 of 1878 ) , the Central Government hereby makes 
the following further amendment in the Indian Arms Rulcs , 1951, namely : 


In column 1 of entry. ( 4 ) in Schedule III of the said rules, after the words 

" Consular Officers " , the words and Trade Commissioners " - - shall 
be inserted . 


c. MERON 


[ No . 15 / 9 / 59- Police IV . ] 
C . P . S . MENON , Dy. Secy . 


- - - 


- 


np article 7 dent is pleas , 1958. 


- 2491 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 20 , 1959 / ASVINI 4, 1881 [PART II 

= - = 

New Delhi, the 21st September 1959 
S . O . 2091, - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( 2 ) of article 77 of 
the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following further amendment 
in the Authentication ( Orders and other Instruments ) Rules , 1958 , namely : 
In clause ( e ) of rule 2 of the said rules for the words "General Manager . 

Telephones" , the words " the Chairman , Posts and Telegraphs Work 
shops Board or General Manager , Telephones " shall be substituted . 

[No. F . 3 / 4 / 59 -Pub . I.] 

FATEH SINGH , Jt. Secy . 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

(Department of Expenditure ) 

New Delhi- 2 , the 14th September 1959 
S . O . 2092 . - In pursuance of clause ( 3 ) of article 77 of the Constitution and of 
all other powers enabling hiin in this behall, the President is pleased to make the 
following amendments in the Delegation of Financial Powers Rules, 1958, namely : 
Amendment No. 5 . 

Clause (d ) of sub - rule (6 ) of rule 8 of these Rules may be substituted as 
under : 
" ( d ) from the provision made for a scheme in one primary unit to meet 

expenditure for any other purpose provided in another primary 
unit " . 

[No. F . 12 (18 ) -EII ( A ) / 59 .] 
New Delhi, the 15th September 1959 
s . O . 2093 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rulc ( 2 ) of rule 11, 
clause ( b ) of sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 14 and sub - rule 1 of rule 23 of the Central 
Civil Services ( Classification , Control and Appeal) Rules, 1957 , the President 
hereby makes the following amendments in the Schedule to the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Expendi 
ture ) No. S . R . O . 639 dated the 28th February , 1957, namely 

In the said Schedule 
( 1 ) in part II General Contral Service Class III. 
( a ) under the heading " Civil Accounts and Audit Offices" , against " Sub 

ordinate Accounts service " and " All other posts " in column i , for 
the entry " Deputy Director of Commercial Audit " , occurring in 

column 3 , the following shall be substituted , namely : 
" Senior Deputy Director of Commercial Audit ; 

Deputy Director of Commercial Audit" ; 
This amendment shall be deemed to have come into force on and from the 
ist August, 1958. 
(b ) under the heading Organisation of the Director of Audit. Defence 

Services for the existing entries in columns 1 to 5 , the following 
entries shall be substituted , namely : 

( 3 ) 

( 1 ) 

(5 ) 
Head - quarter 

Office. 
All posts . Director of Audit , Director of Audit , All Comptroll- r and 
Defence Services . Defence Services , 

Audiior Gencral, 
Deputy Director of (i ) to Discctor of Audit , De 

Audit , Defence Ser - ( ili) fence Services. 
Branch offices, 

vices. 
Subordinate Ac- Director of Audit, Director of Audit , ALI . Comptroller and 
counts Servicc . Defence Services . Defence Services. 

Auditor General. 
Senior Dy. Director (i ) to . Director of Audit, De 
of Audit , Defence (i ) fence Services , 

Services . 
All other posts . Director of Audit , Director of Audit All Comptroller and 
Defencc Services , Defence Services , 

Auditor General, 
Sr. Dy. Director of (1) to Director of Audit , 
Audit , Defence ( 1 ) Defence Services , 
Services, 
Dy. Director of 1 
Audit Defence Ser 

Yt) Director of Audit, 
viccs . 

Defence Services . 
Assistant Director of 
Audit, Defence Se 
Survices. 


- 715 ) 


- 


- 


( 2 ) 


SEC, 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 /ASVINA 4, 1881 2495 


This amendment shall ho decmed to have come into force on and from the 
1st July , 1958 . 
( c ) under the heading " Posts and Telegraphs Audit Offices " , sub -heading 

" Branch Offces " , for the entry " Deputy Accountant General, Posts 
und Telegraphs" , wherever it occurs in columns 2 and 3 , the follow 

ing shall be substituted , namely : 
" Senior Deputy Accountant General, Posts and Telegraphs, Deputy Ac 

countant General, Posts and Telegraphs " ; 
This amendment will be deemed to have come into force on and from the 
17th July , 1958 . 
2. In part III -General Central Services Class IV , 
( a ) under the heading " Civil Accounts and Audit Offices " , for the entry 

" Deputy Director of Commercial Audit" , ( occurring in columns 2 , 

3 and 5 , the following shall be substituted , namely : -- 
" Senior Deputy Director of Commercial Audit; Deputy Director of Com 

mercial Audit” ; 
This amendment shall be deemed to havt: come into force on and from the 
Ist August , 1958 . 
( b ) under the heading " Organisation of the Director of Audit, Defence 

Services " , sub - heading Branch Offices , for the entry " Deputy Di 
rector of Audit, Defence Services " , wherever it occurs in columns - 

2 and 3 , the following shall be substituted , namely :-- 
" Senior Deputy Director of Audit , Defence Serviccs; Deputy Director 

of Audit, Defence Services ” ; 
This amendment shall be deemed to have come into force on and from the 
1st July, 1958 . 
( c ) under the heading " Posts and Telegraphs Audit Ofices " . sub -heading 

Branch Offices , for the entry " Deputy Accountant General, posts 
and Telegraphs" in column 5 , the following shall te substituted 

namely : — 
" Senior Deputy Accountant General, Posts and Telegraphs; Deputy Ac 

countant General, Posts und Telegraphs " ; 
This amendment shall be demed to have come into force on and from the 
17th July , 1958. 

[No. F . 20 ( 5 ) - E .G .I/ 59.1 


New Delhi, the 17th September 1959 
S . O . 2094 . — In pursuance of sub - rule ( 2 ) uf rule 11, clause (b ) of sub - rule 
( 2 ) of rule 14 and sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 23 of the Central Civil Services ( Classi 
fication , Control and Appeal) Rules, 1957, the President hereby makce the follow 
ing amendment in the Schedule to the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Finance ( Department of Expenditure ) No . S . R . O . 639 , dated 
the 28th February, 1957 , namely : 

In Part II of the said Schedule, under the heading " Posts and Telegraphs 
Audit Offices " , for the sub -headings “ Central Ofice " and " Branch Offices and 
all the entries relating thereto , the following shall be substituted , namely : 
- - - 


- - - 


All posta . 


Accountant, Gc- 
neral , Posts and 
Telegraphs. 


Accountant 
ral, Posts 


Gene- 

and 


All 


Comptroller and 
Auditor General, 


Telegraplis 


Senior Deputy Ac- ( ) to Accountant Genera ) 
countant General, (111) Posts and Tele 
Posts and Tele 

graphs . 
graphs ; 
Dy. Accountant 
Gucral, Posts and 
Telegraphs. 

[No , F . 20 ( 5 ) - E . G .I /59. ) 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - 


2496 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26, 1959 /ASVINA 4 , 1881 


[Part II 


New Delhi, the 19th September 1959 
S . O . 2095 . — In pursuance of clause (3 ) of article _ 77 of the constitution and of 
all other powers enabling him in this behalf, the President is plcased to make 
the following amendment in the Delegation of Financial Powers Rules , 1958, 
namely : 

Amendment No. 6 
In Schedule I to the Rules, on page 8, under F - Ministry of Food & Agri 
culture (Department of Agriculture) insert the following : - 

“ 17 Director, Sugarcane Breeding Institute , Coimbatore. 

18. Director, Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research , Lucknow . 
( This amendment takes effect from 8th January , 1959 ). 

[No . F .12 ( 67) - EII ( A ) /59.7 
R . R . SAVOOR , Dy. Secy 


(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 18th September 1959 
$ . 0 . 2096 . - Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India , as on the 11th September , 1959 

BANKING DEPARTMENT 


SEC.3(ii)] 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


5, 00 , 00 ,000 
80 ,00 , 00 ,000 
30 ,00 ,00 ,000 
4 ,00 , 00 ,000 


Notes 
Rupee Coin , 
Subsidiary Coin . 
Bills Purchased and Discounted : -- 


... 


. 


17 ,02 , 98 , 000 

2 ,51 ,000 
844.000 


, 


.. 


Capital paid up . 
Reserve Fund . 
National Agricultural Credit(Long -term Operations) Fund . 
National Agricultural Credit ( Stabilisation ) Fund 
Deposits : 

( a ) Government . , 

( 1 ) Central Government , . 

(2 ) Other Governments 
( b ) Banks , . 

(c ) Others . 
Bills Payable , . 
Other Liabilities . . . . . . . 


. 


( 4 ) Internal , , , , 

( b ) Exterpal . . 
56 , 82 , 42 ,000 ( c ) Government Treasury Bills . 
20 ,47 ,39 ,000 Balances held abroad * 
80 .77 , 48 ,000 * * Loans and Advances to Governments 
120 ,01, 00 ,000 Other Loans and Advancest 
16 ,70 , 16 ,000 Investments , . 
12 ,46 ,42 , 000 Other Assets . . . . . 


4,01, 19,000 
23 ,25,01,000 
19 ,01 ,80 ,000 
74 , 15 ,69 ,000 
279 ,32 , 18 ,000 

9 ,35 ,07, 000 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,18812497 


. 


. 


Rupees 


. 


. 


. 


426,34,87,000 


Rupees 


. 


. 


. 


. 


426 ,24,87 , 000 


* Includes Cash and Short term Securities. 
* * Includes Temporary Overdrafts to State Governments, 


* The item Other Loans and Advances includes Rs. 10 ,00 ,000 advanced to scheduled banks against uşance bills under Section 17 /410 ) of the 
Reserve Bank of India Act . 


Dated the 15th day of September 1959 


An Accountpursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Ad 1934, for theweek ended the lth day of September , 1959 

ISSTE DEPARTMENT 


LLIBILITICS 


R 


sur 


R . 


Rs 


14.02 98 000 


Notes held in the Banking Department 
Notes in circulation 


[670 , 29 ,54 ,000 


117 , 76 ,03.000 


Total Notes issued 


108 : 31, 52 ,500 


+ Goli Collani Bullion - 

1 Held in Indi 
1h Held outside India 
Foreign Securities 

TUTODE 
B . Rupit Cuin 
Government of India Rupec Secu 

rities 


163, 00 ,89 Coo 


240 ,76 92 ,000 
135 .35 ,99,000 


2498THEGAZETTEOFINDIASEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


12 + 1 , IR 61, 000 


Internal Bills of Exchange and other 

wommercial paper 


TOTAL LIABILITIES 


1687,31,52, 000 


TOTAL ASSETS 


1687,31 ,52 ,000 


H . V . R IENGAR , 

Guternor. 


Dated the 15th day of September 1959. 


[No. F . 312 ) BC / 59 .) 
4 . BAKSHI, Jt. Seci , 


ERRATUM 
In the statement of Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India as on 17th July , 1959, 
published in the Gazette of India , Part 11 - Section 3 ( u ) , dated 1st August, 1959, 
as S . O . 1673, the following correction is to be made . - - 
Page 1870 , 

for " H VR lenger , Governor " . 
Tead " H . V . R . Iengar, Governor " 


[PAREIL 


SEC. 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 /ASVINA 4 , 1881 2499 


(Department of Economic Affalrs ) 

New Delhi, the 22nd September 1959 
S . O . 2097. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Companies Act, 1949 ( 10 of 1949 ) , the Central Government, on the recommenda 
tion of the Reserve Bank of India , hereby declares that in the case of the under 
noted banking companies, the provisions of section 11 of the said Act shall not 
apply up to and including the 31st March , 1960 : 


1 . Moolankuzhi Union Bank Ltd ., Thoppumpady. 
2 . New Citizen Bank of India Ltd ., Bombay . 
3 . Rayalaseema Bank Ltd ., Anantapur. 
4 . S . & I. Banking Corporation Ltd ., Tripunithura . 

[No. F . 4 (63)- BC /59.) 

D . N . GHOSH , Under Secy . 
(Department of Economic Affairs ) 
(Office of the Controller of Capital Issues ) 

ORDER 


New Delhi, the 21st September 1959 


S . O . 2098. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 
6 of the Capital Issues ( Control) Act, 1947 ( 29 of 1947 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby exempts the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India 
Limited , from the provisions of sections 3 and 5 of the said Act in respect of 
the bonds of the value not exceeding the equivalent of $ 10 , 000 ,000 ( ten million 
dollars ) executed and delivered by the Corporation to or on the order of the 
Interational Bank for Reconstruction and Development in terms of the Loan 
Agreement dated the 15th July , 1959, entered into between the two parties . 

[ No. F. 14 (3) -CCI/ 59- 3619. ] 
A BAKSI, Controller of Capital Issues. 


(Department of Revenue ) 

INCOME- TAX 

New Delhi, the 18th September 1959 
S . O , 2099.- In pursuance of the provision of item (iv ) of paragraph 13 of the 
Merged States ( Taxation Concessions ) Order , 1949, the Central Government hereby 
makes the following amendment in the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Finance (Revenue Division ), No. 32 , dated the 14th May , 1954, 
namely : 

In the Table annexed to the said notification , the following item at Serial 
No, 102 shall be omitted , namely : 
" 102 . Darbargadh including outhouses at 
Khadal 

Ruler of Khadal." 


Explanatory Note 
( This docs not form part of the amendment but is intended to be merely 
clarificatory . ) 

The amendment has become necessary as the Darbargadh including outhouses 
at Khadal has ceased to be an official residence of the Ruler of Khadal. 

[ No. 100 - 22 / 17 / 59 - IT. ] 
N . S. RAGHAVAN , Under Secy , 


2500 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 / ASVINA 4, 1881 


[PART II 


( Department of Revenue ) 

CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 19th September 1959 
S . O . 2100 , -- In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( 1 ) article 258 of the 
Constitution , the President, with the consent of the Government of Kerala , hereby 
entrusts to the following police officers within their respective jurisdiction , but 
excluding port limits where officers of customs exercise jurisdiction , the functions 
of officers of Customs under sections 169 , 170 , 171, 173, and 173 of the Sea Customs 
Act, 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) namely : 

TRIVANDRUM DISTRICT 
( 1 ) The Sub -Divisional officers of police, Trivandrum city and rural . 

( 2 ) The Inspectors of Police , Trivandrum city Neyyantinkara and Attingal 
ciroles. 

( 3 ) All Sub - Inspectors of Police , Head Constables and Constables ( including 
those on coastal patrol duty ) stationed within the limits of the following police 
stations 

( 1) Neyyantinkara . 
( li ) Nemon . 
( lli ) Fort. 
(iv ) Puthen Chanthai, 
( v ) Kazhakuttam . 
(vi) Attingal, 
(vii ) Kadakkavoor , 
( viii) Varkalal, 

ALLEPPEY DISTRICT 
( 4 ) The Sub -Divisional officer of Police , Alleppey . 
(5 ) The Inspector of Police , Alleppey circle , 

( 6 ) All Sub - Inspectors of Police , Head Constables and Constables (including 
those on coastal patrol duty ) stationed within the limits of the following police 
stations: 

(1) Alleppey South . 
( ii ) Alleppey Beach out post. 

QUILON DISTRICT 
( 7 ) The Deputy Superintendent of Police, Quilon , 
( 8 ) Deputy Superintendent of Police, Adoor , 
( 9 ) The Inspector of Police , Quilon circle . 
( 10 ) Inspector of Police, Karunagapalli circle . 

( 11) All Sub - Inspectors of Police , Head Constables and Constables stationed 
within the limits of the following police stations : 

(i) Quilon West, 
( 11 ) Chanara . 

(No. 145.) 

M , C . DAS, Dy . Secy . 
(Department of Revenue ) 

ORDER 

STAMPS 

New Delhi, the 15th September 1959 
S . O . 2101 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 1 ) 
of section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act , 1899 ( 2 of 1899 ) , the Central Government 
hereby remits the duty with which the sale deed to be executed by the Embassy 
of Brazil in India in respect of premises at No. 8 , Aurangzeb Road , New Delhi, is 
chargeable under the said Act . 

(No. 18 . ] 
D . N . LAL , Under Secy . 


SEC , S (i!)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 /AŞVINA 4, 188H 2501 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

INCOME - TAX 

New Delhi, the 14th September 1959 
S . O . 2102 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of Section 
5 of the Indian Income- tax Act , 1922 ( 11 of 1922 ) the Central Board of Revenue 
hereby makes the following further amendments to its notification SO 660 No. 35 
Income- tax , dated 22nd April , 1958 , namely : 

In the Schedule annexed to the said notification under the Sub -head “ XIII 
Punjab , Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh " against: 
( a ) Jullundur Range. - The existing entries " 5 . Ambala " and " 6 . Special 

Circle , Ambala " shall be deleted and the subsequent entries shall be 

renumbered as " 5." and " 6 ." . 
(b ) Patiala Range . After the existing entry " 9 . Special Survey Circle , 

Patiala " the following entries shall be added , namely : 

10 . Ambala . 

11. Special Circle, Ambala . 
The notification shall take cffect from the 28th September, 1959 . 

Explanatory Note 
NOTE . - The amendments have become necessary on account of the reorganisa 
tion of Appellate Ranges. 

( The above note does not form a part of the notification but is intended to be 
merely clarificatory ) . 

[No. 99 ( F . No. 50 / 30 / 59 - IT .) ) 


New Delhi, the 18th September 1959 


S . O . 2103 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (4 ) of Section 3 
of the Indian Income- tax Act, 1922 ( 11 of 1922 ) , the Central Board of Revenue 
hereby makes the following further amendments in the Schedule appended to 
its notiication S . O . 660 No. 35 - Income- tax , dated the 22nd April 1958 , namely : 

In the said Schedule under the sub -head " 1 - Andhra Pradesh " against 
" B - Range, Hyderabad " for the existing entry " 2 . Special Circle , Hyderabad " the 
following entry shall be substituted , namely : 

" 2. Special Investigation Circle, Hyderabad.” 


Explanatory Note 
NOTE . - The amendments have become necessary on account of the creation 
of a new Circle in place of the old circle . 

( The above note does not form a part of the notification but is intended to be 
merely clarificatory .) 

[No. 101 ( F . No. 50/ 18 /59 - IT ). ] 


S . O . 2104 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (4 ) of Section 5 
of the Indian Income- tax Act , 1922 ( 11 of 1922 ) , the Central Board of Revenue 
hereby makes the following further amendments to its notiAcation S . O , 660 No. 35 
Income-tax , dated the 22nd April 1958 , namely : 

In the Schedule appended to the said notification under sub -head " XIV - Uttar 
Pradesh " against 

( a ) Meerut: for the existing entrics 
" 2. Special Investigation Circle A Meerut; and 

6 . Additional Special Circle , Meerut" 
the following entries shall be substituted , namely : 

" 2. Special Investigation Circle A Meerut ; and 
6 . Special Investigation Circle B Meerut." 


250 %. THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 / ASVINA 4 , 1881 


Part II 


(b ) Kanpur 11: for the existing entry " 2 . Special Circle, Kanpur " the follow 
ing entry shall be substituted , namely : 

" 2. Special Investigation Cirlce, Kanpur." 

This notification shall be deemed to have taken effect from the 15th Septem 
ber 1959 . 

Explanatory Note 
NOTE .-- The amendments have become necessary on account of the creation of 
Special Investigation Circles . 

( The above note does not form a part of the notification but is intended to be 
merely clarificatory .) 

[No. 102 (F. No. 50 /31 / 59- IT). 
New Delhi, the 21st September 1959 
8 , 0 , 2105 ,- - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - gection (4 ) of Section 5 
of the Indian Income- tax Act, 1922 ( 11 of 1922 ) , the Central Board of Revenue 
hereby makes the following amendment in its notification so . 880 No. 35 - Income 
tax , dated the 22nd April 1958 , namely : 

In the schedule annexed to the said notification under sub -head " XV - -West 
Bengal" for the existing entry " L " Range, Calcutta in column 1 of the schedule the 
following entry shall be substituted , namely : 

" Jalpaiguri Range, Jalpaiguri." 
The amendment shall be deemed to have taken ellect frcun 1st August 1959 , 

Explanatory Note 
NOTE . — The amendment has become necessary on account of the reshuffling 
of the Appellate Ranges . 

( The above note does not form a part of the notification but is intended to be 
merely clarifcatory . ) 

[No. 103 (F . No. 50 / 32 / 59 - IT ). ] 
New Delhi, the 22nd September 1959 
9 . 0 . 2106 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of Section 6 
of the Indian Income- tax Act , 1922 ( 11 of 1922 ) , the Central Board of Revenue 
hereby directs that under sub -head " X - Kerala & Colmbatore " for the entries 
in Cols . 1 and 2 of the Schedule annexed to its notification S . O . 860 No. 38 
Income- tax , dated the 22nd April 1958 the following entries shall be substituted , 
namely : 
Coimbatore Range : 

1 . Colmbatore Circle . 
2 . Special Survey Circle , Coimbatore . 

( In respect of persons who have their prin 

cipal place of business in or reside within 

the jurisdiction of the Coimbatore Circle . ) 
3 . Special Investigation Circle, Coimbatore. 
4 . Excess Profits Tax Circle , Coimbatore and 

Erode , 
5 . Estate Duty - cum - Income-tax Circle , Coimba 

tore . 
6 . Erode Circle . 
7. Ootacamund Circle . 
8 . Palghat Circle . 
9 . Calicut Circle , 
10 . Cannanore Circle . 
11. Trichur. 
12 . Alwaye Circle . 
13. Special Survey Circle , Ernakulam , 

( In respect of persons who have their prin 

cipal place of business in or reside within 
the jurisdiction of the Income- tax Circles, 
Palghat , Calicut, Cannanore, Trichur and 
Alwaye.) 


SEC. 8 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26, 1959 /ASVINA 4 , 188) 


2503 


Ernakulam Circle : 

1. Ernakulam Circle . 
2 . Mattancherry Circle. 
3 . Alleppey Circle . 
4 . Quilon Circle . 
5 . Kottayam Circle . 
6 . Trivandrum Circle. 
7 . Salary Circle , Trivandrum . 
8 . Special Survey Circle , Ernakulam . 

( In respect of persons who have their prin 
cipal place of business in or reside within 
the jurisdiction of the Income- tax Circles 

mentioned above. ) 
9 . Special Investigation Cirole , Trivandrum . 
10 . Estate Duty - cum - Income- tax Circle , Erna 

kulam . 
These amendments shall be deemed to have taken effect from the 1st Septem 
ber, 1959. 

Explanatory Note 
NOTE . - - The amendments have become necessary on account of the reorga 
nisation of the Appellate Ranges in the charge of the Commissioner of Income 
tax , Coimbatore, 

( The above note does not form a part of the notification but is intended to be 
merely clarificatory . ) 

(No. 104 ( F . No. 50 / 26 / 59 - IT ) .) 
D . V . JUNNARKAR , Under Secy . 


LAND CUSTOMS 


New Delhi, the 19th September 1959 


$ . 0 . 2107. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Land Cus. 
toms Act, 1924 ( 19 of 1924 ) , the Central Board of Revenue hereby makes the 
following further amendment in its notification No. 22 -Customs, dated the 2nd 
February, 1962, namely : - 1 


In the Schedule annexed to the said notiAcation , under the heading “ C - land 
Customs areas under the jurisdiction of the Collector of Land Customs, Shillong" 
and the sub -heading " Agartala I Circle " , after the entries relating to " AGAR 
TALA " , the following entries shall be inserted , namely : 

- -- - - - - - - - - - 

- 


- 


- 


- 


Srimantapur. 


(i) The river Gumti. 
( 11 ) Udaipur- Comilla road. 


[No. 5.) 
M . C . DAS, Secy . 


COLLECTORATE OF CENTRAL EXCISE , CALCUTTA 

CENTRAL EXCISE 
Calcutta , the 7th September 1959 


S . O . 2168. - In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Rule 3 of Central 
Excise Rules , 1944, I hereby authorise the Assistant Collectors of Central Excise 


2504 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 /ASVINA 4 , 1881 


[PART JI 


in the Collectorate of Central Excisc , Calcutta , to exercise the powers of Collector 
under rules 27 ( 4 ) and 147 ibid for remission of duty in the case of loss or destruc 
tion by unavoidable accident of goods lodged in private bonded store - rooms or 
warehouses and under Rule 14 - A in case of loss of goods overboard , subject to the 
condition that the duty involved in each individual case shall not exceed Rs. 250 . 

[No. 11 / 1959 .) 
S . P . KAMPANI, Collector . 


OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE 

AND LAND CUSTOMS, GOA FRONTIER DIVISION , BELGAUM 


NOTICE 


Belgaum , the 12th September , 1959 


S . O . 2109 . -- Whereas it appears that the marginally noted goods which were 
I. Betelnuts. B . Mds . 8 - Srs .28 

seized by the Deputy Superintendent, F . 

$ . Savantwadi at S Wadi out side the 
compound of the house owned by Abas Khan Ismail Khan on 1st April, 1959 
were imported by Land from Goa ( Portuguese possessions in India ) in contra 
vention of Section 5 ( 1 ) of the Land Customs Act, 1924 and the Government of 
India , Ministry of Commerce and Industries Import Control Order No. 17 /55, dated 
7th December , 1955 issued under Section 3 of the Imports and Exports Control 
Act, 1947 and further dcemed to have been issued under Section 19 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 . 


2 . Now , therefore , any person claiming the goods is hereby called upon to 
Show Cause to the Assistant Collector of Central Excise and Land Customs, Goa 
Frontier Division , Belgaum why the above mentioned goods should not be confis 
cated under Section 5 ( 3 ) of the Land Customs Act, 1924 read with Section 167 ( 8 ) 
of the Sea Customs Act , 1878 , and why a penalty should not be imposed on him 
under Section 7 ( i ) (b ) of the Land Customs Act, 1921 read with Section 167 ( 8 ) 
of the Sea Customs Act , 1878. 


3 . If such a owner fails to turn up to claim the above mentioned unclaimed 
goods or to show cause against the action proposed to be taken within 30 days 
from the publication of this notice in the Government of India Gazette , the goods 
in question will be treated as unclaimed and the case will be decided accordingly . 


[NO . VIII( b ) 10 - 222 / 59.] 


SHOW CAUSE NOTICE 
Belgaum , the 13th September, 1959 


S . O . 2110 . - Whereas it appears that the marginally noted goods which were 
I . Betelnuts B . Mds. Srs . 

seized by the Supervisor, C . Ex ., Malam 
(in ninc 

thana (Matna Range ) at a place known 
bags .) 71 - 00 

as " Babu Kumbar s Pacha" in the vici 
2 . Cloves 

00 - 20 

nity of the Indo -Goa border on 12th 
December , 1958 , were imported by Land from Goa ( Portuguese possessions in 
India ) in contravention of Section 5 ( 1 ) of the Land Customs Act, 1924 and the 
Government of India , Ministry of Commerce and Industry , Import Control Order 
No . 17 / 55 , dated 7th December , 1955 issued under Section 3 of the Imports and 
Exports Control Act, 1947 and further deemed to have been issued under Section 19 
of the Sea Customs Act, 1878. 


Now , therefore, any person claiming the goods is hereby called upon to show 
cause to the Assistant Collector of Central Excise and Land Customs, Goa Frontier 
Division , Belgaum why the above mentioned goods should not be confiscated 


SEC . 3 ( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 /ASVINA 4 , 1881 2505 


under Section 5 ( 3 ) of the Land Customs Act, 1924 read with Section 167 ( 8 ) of 
the Sea Customs Act , 1878 and the containers under Section 168 of the Sea Cus 
toms Act , 1878 and why a penalty should not be imposed on him under Sec 
tion 7 ( 1 ) ( c ) of the Land Customs Act , 1924 read with Section 167 ( 8 ) of the 
Sea Customs Act, 1878 . 


If such a owner fails to turn up to claim the above mentioned unclaimed goods 
or to Show Cause against the action proposed to be taken within 30 days from 
the publication of this notice in the Government of India Gazette , the goods in 
question will be treated as unclaimed and the case will be decided accordingly . 


[ No. VIII (b ) 10 - 16 /59/ 19016 .) 
E . R . SRIKANTIA , 

Assistant Collector . 


CENTRAL EXCISE , DELHI 


CEREAL EXCISE DELETE 


New Delhi, the 14th September 1959 


S . O . 2111. - In exercise of powers conferred on me under Rule 5 of the Central 
Excise Rules, 1944 , I empower the officers of Central Excise Collectorate , Delhi, 
specified in column 1 of the sub - joined table , to exercise within their respective 
jurisdictions the power of a collector under the rules enumerated in column 2 . 


TABLE 


Rank of officer 


Central Excise Rules 


Limitation , if arzy 


Assistant Collector . 


147 
27 ( 4 ) 
14 ( A ) 


Provided the duty in 
volved in each individual 
case does not exceed 
Rs. 250 / -/ 


No. C . IV ( 8 ) 2 / 39 / 425 / 26 .] 
B . D . DESHMUKH , 


Collector 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE , BARODA 

CENTRAL EXCISE ( TOBACCO ) 


Baroda, the 17th September 1959 


S . O . 2112 . - In exercise of the powers conferred o mie under Rule 5 of the 
Central Excise Rules, 1944 , I authorise all Assistant Collectors of Central Excise, 
in the Baroda Collectorate , to exercise powers of the Collector in the following 
cases, provided the duty involved in each individual case is not more than 
Rs . 250 :- - 


( i ) Cases of loss or destruction by unavoidable accidents of goods lodged 

in private bonded store -rooms, under Rule 27 (4 ) ibid ; 


2506 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959/ ASVINA 4 , 1881 


(PART II 


(ii) Cases of loss or destruction by unavoidable accidents of goods lodged 

in private bonded warehouses , under Rule 147 ibid ; and 
( iii) Cases of loss of goods over-board , under Rule 14 - A ibid . 


[No. 3 / 1959 . T 
R . PRASAD , Collector 


(2) Permanent Reserve Fund Executive Council Res : No . 14(a) dated 21- 12 - 1982 and F. C . Item No . 4 dated 29 -11- 1952 

Balance Sheet as at 31st March , 1956 


2508 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


a . 


D . 


Rs. 


2 . p . 


Rs. 


a . p . 


M .U . Permanent Reserve Fund : 

(Non -Permanent Reserve Fund) 
As per last Balance Sheet 


8 ,55,686 09 


Rs. a. p . Investments : 

Rs. 9, 14 ,400 @ 3 % Stock Certificate 
20 ,00,000 OO No, D . H . 590 Conversion Loan 

1946 at cost 
Rs. 5,87,600 @ 3 % Stock Certificate 
No. D . H . 630 Conversion Loan 
1946 at cost 
Rs . 3,42 ,500 @ 3 % Stock Certificate 
Rs. 5,500 @ 3 % Stock Certificate 
No. 17 Loan of 1896 - 97 at cost 
Rs. 1,16 ,000 @ 3 % Conversion loan 
Rs. 5,400 @ 3% Conversion Loan of 
1946 at par . 
Rs. 10, 000 @ 3 % Conversion Loan 
of 1946 at par 
Purchase of ^ a house from Dr. s. 
Moinul Haq . . 
Purchase of a house from Mr. s . 
Wali Mohd . 
Purchase of a house from Mr. Saeed 
Iftikhar 
Purchase of two wings of English 
House from M . U . High School . 
Cash with State Bank of India , 
Aligarh ( M . U . Fund Account ) . . 


5, 59 ,368 2 7 
3,35 ,572 10 9 

3, 740 00 
1, 12 , 126 10 6 

6,400 OO 
10,000 0 0 
18,621 10 6 
39,645 50 
10 ,000 OO 
43,670 1 6 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


19,94 ,830 9 7 

5, 169 6 5 


TOTAL . 


20,00, 000 


0 


0 


TOTAL 


, 


20 , 00 ,000 


0 


0 


(Sd.) OBAIDUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Hony . Treasurer , 
Muslim University , Aligarh . 


[PARTII 


(3) Muslim University Floating Reserve Fund 

Balance Sheet as al 31st March , 1956 


SEO.3(11)] 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


2. D . 


Rs. 


2. p . 


Rs. 


2 . p . 


Rs. 


2 . p . 


Loan : 


Muslim University General Reserre Ac 

cothit ; 
As per last Balance Sheet 
Government Grant for purchase of 
Evacuee Property in the vicinity of 
University , 


3,72 ,663 12 8 


3,72 ,663 128 


Purchase and sale of Commodities 
and Building material . . 
Add Expenditure during the year 


37, 599 10 
24 ,669 14 


7 
0 


1,05,000 OO 


62,269 80 
24,810 14 6 


Less receipt during the year . 
Purchase of Paper for University 


. 
. 


37 458 101 
8 ,803 10 9 


90 ,378 129 


Projects under constructions : 
(a ) Women s College Hostel . 
(6 ) Construction of a Hostel of 4 

Halts , Executive Council Res : 
No. 30 dated 29 - 10 - 1944 and F . C . 
Res , No . 2 dated 12 - 6 - 1946 . 
Purchase of Evacukee Property . 
Building Programme 
(Purchase of Houses in the vicinity 
of the University ) 
Cash with the State Bank of India , 
Aligarh . 
( M . U , Fund Accounti 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASYINA4,1881 


93,267 13 
1 ,09,312 7 

4 , 900 0 


9 
9 
0 


1 ,33,542 5 


7 


TOTAL . 


4 , 77 ,663 12 


8 


TOTAL 


. 


4,77, 663 12 8 


(Sd .) OBAIDUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Hony . Treasurer, 
Muslim University, Aligarh , 


2509 


( ) Muslim University Special Floating Reserve Fund 

Balake Sheet as at 31st March , 1956 


2510 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


2. p. 


Rs. 


2. p. 


Rs. 


4. D . 


Rs. a. p . 


Investments : 


2 ,48 ,479 70 


2 ,49 ,220 00 
87,645 120 
50,000 o 6 


part 


Grants from States : 
I, Bhopal State Grant for Science 

• 
2. H . H . Ruler of Bhopal for Flying 

Gub . 
3. Bahawalpur State Grant for General 
Buildings . 
4 . Mahumadabad State Grant for 
General Buildings 
5. Haji Md. Zahoor Md. Saced for 
General Buildings 
6 . Sir A . Rauf donation for Scholar 

ship , 
7. Late Prof. Moimuddin deposit for 

Art Gallery 
8 . Cost of Waqf house of Mr. Nazir 
uddin Khan of Shahjahanpur . . 


sue 
65,000 DO 
38 ,000 o 

50000 
50, 000 OO 
21,375 13 2 
1,600 OO 


Rs. 3 ,05,700 @ 4 % loan 60 - 70 at 
cost . 
Rs. 85,300 @ 4 % loan 60- 70 at 
costRs. 50,000 Conversion loan 1946 at 
Rs. 25,000 @ 3 Conversion loan 
1946 No. D .MO. 10119 at cost . . 
Rs. 5, 000 @ 3 % loan 1957 at cost , 
Rs. 2 , 000 @ 4 % Bombay Port Trust 
Deliverance Bond logn 1917 at cost . 
Rs. 500 Shahjahan Floor Mill Co ., 
(5 shares @ Rs, 100 each ) at par . 
Purchase of Building material out of 
Auchinleck Fund as per last Balance 
Sheet . 
House purchased from Mr. Hazia . 
House purchased from Mr. S . A . 
Jali ? 
Casb with State Bank of India , Ali . 
gach (MU . Fund alc ) : 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


23 ,830 II 5 
5222500 
1, 920 OO 
500 Oo 4 , 18 ,341 7 5 


28,851 126 
4 ,000 oo 


4 ,74, 955 


4 


2 


Less amount transferred to Engineer 
ing College for construction of roofing 
of Assembly Room under E . C . Res . 
No. 3 , dated 1 - 8 - 1954 . . . 


10 ,230 20 
2 ,28 ,928 09 


35 ,000 OO 


4. 39,955 4 


2 


Add amount received on account of 
Redumption of Security for Rs. 
3 , 500 @ 45 % 1955 - 60 , , , 


3150000 


[PARTII 


3 ,272 


8 


0 


4 , 40 , 182 12 


2 


Sta.$(L) 


Less expenditure transferred to in 

vestment - - - 
Anchinleck Memorial Fund : 

As per last Balance Sheet 
Polytechnic Account : 

As per last Balance Sheet 


99,753 6 0 
1,50,415 4 6 


TOTAL 


6 ,90351 6 8 


TOTAL 


6 ,90,351 6 8 


( Sd ) OBALDUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Hony , Treasurer , 
Muslim University , Aligarh . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26, 


VAS 


A4,. 


. 


21 


(5 ) Muslim University Trust Fund Account 


Balance Sheet as at 31st March , 1956 


-AM 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


OF 


Rs. 


a. p . 


Rs. 


2 . p . 


Rs. 


2. p. 


Rs. 


a. p. 


A: 


General Scholarslap Fund : 


General Scholarship Fund Investment : 


As per last Balance Sheet 
Arabic Scholarship : 

As per last Balance Sheet 


. 
. 


. 
. 


1, 07,773 5 9 
64,605 65 


49,000 0 


Rs. 49,000 @ 46 loan 1960 - 70 at 
par . 
Rs. 2 ,500 Upper India Couper Paper 
Mill and Co ., Ltd ., 25 shares at Rs 
100 each at cost , 
Rs. 2, 000 @ 3 % Conversion loan 
1946 at cost 
Rs. 54 , 239 Building at cost , 
Cash with State Bank of India , Ali 
gach ( M . U . Fund Alc) . 


2 , 400 00 


Prizes and Aledols : 
I . Sir Shah M . 

Suleman . . 
2 . Lady Ali Shah . 
3 . Prizes and Me 

dals . . 


1 ,000 
1 ,000 


0 
0 


0 
0 


1 , 979 2 8 
54 , 239 00 


155 3 


I 


1,07,773 5 9 


MBER26,1969/ASVINA4,1881 


9 . 987 II 


3 


26 ,000 


O 


o 


11, 987 II 3 


As per last Balance 
Sheet . 
Add receipt on acc 
ouot of redumption 
of Security for Rs. 
5, 500 @ 4 % 55 -60 


Arabic Scholarship Fund Investments ; 

Rs. 26 , 000 @ 4 % loan 1960 - 70 at par 
Rs. 20 ,200 @ 46 Conversion loan 
1946 at par 
Rs. 18,261 /8 /4 Building at cost 
Cash with State Bank of India , Ali 
gach ( 

MU, Fund a/ s ) 


20 ,200 Oo 
18 ,261 84 


5,500 Oo 


143 14 


] 


64 ,605 6 5 


[PART! 


17,487 II 3 


Less expenditure 
transferred to In 
vestment , . 


5, 142 80 


3 ,250 


I 


6 


Sæc.$(11)] 


Para os ver last Balance Sheet 


Prizes and Medals Fund Investments : 

Rs. 3 , 300 @ 3 % loan 1070 - 75 at 

cost . 
12, 345 3 3 

Rs. 1, 000 @ 3 % Victory loan 1957 
at cost 

. 

. - 
2000 OO 1,86 ,723 15 5 Rs-2 ,445 Building at cost . 

Cash with State Bank of India , Ali 

garh ( M . U . Fund alc ) . , 
Poor Student Fund Investments : 

Rs. 2 ,000 Building at cost . 
1,86 ,723 15 5 

TOTAL . 


As per last Balance Sheet 


1 ,008 12 0 
2 445 00 


2000 0 1 


5,641 59 


12 ,345 3 3 
2, 000 00 


TOTAL 


, 


1,86 ,723 15 5 


(Sd.) OBADUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Hony . Treasurer , 
Muslim University , Aligarh . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:,S 


W 


su, 


ir 


6. Muslim University Boilding Fund 

Balance Sheet as at 31st March , 1956 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


2 


p . 


Rs. 


2 


p . 


Gerteral Building Fund 
Electrification Fund . 
Drainage Scheme . 
Hand Pump and Water Pipe Line 


Rs. 2. p . 
33 ,80, 394 6 7 Buildings and lands . 
2 , 79 , 139 2 6 Electrification Fund Investment . 

5 , 701 4. Cash with State Bank of India Aligarb 
1, 999 90 ( M . U . Fund Account ) . 


Rs. 
33, 80 ,626 
2 ,79, 139 


a . p . 
2 8 
I 11 


EOF 


749 I II 


, 


TOTAL . 


36,67,234 6 6 


TOTAL . 


36,67,234 66 


(Sa .) OBADUR RAEHAN KHAN , 

Horry . Treasurer , 
Muslim University , Aligarth 


A;SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


[PARTII 


(7) Depreciation Fand 
Balance Sheet as at 31st March , 1956 


Sec.3(ii)] 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


2. p . 


Rs. 


2. p . 


Rs. 


2 p . 


Res. 


2 p. 


On Buildings : 


Intestments : 


As per last Balance Sheet 
Add depreciation for the year 


. 


, 


5 ,99 ,803 3 10 
74 ,241 00 


. . 


781,217 6 0 


5,92,826 13 10 


cost 


, 


Less expenditure . . . 
On Electric Installation : 

As per last Balance Sheet 
Add depreciation for the year , 


Rs. 7,34,000 @ 4 % loan of 1960 -70 
at cost 
Rs . 50, 000 @ 4 % loan of 1960 - 70 
Rs. 35,000 @ 3% kan of 1961 -66 at 
Rs. 1,17, 000 @ 4 % loan of 1960 - 70 
at cost 
Rs 900 @ 4 % loan of 1960 - 70 at cost 
Rs. 2 , 100 @ 3 % loan of 1958 at cost 
Rs. 1 ,20 000 @ 3 % loan 1963-65 . 
Cash with State Bank of India ( M . U . 
Fund Account . 


5,98, 390 OO 
51, 375 Oo 
31, 193 12 0 
1 , 19, 559 60 

911 4 0 
2 , 065 14 0 
1, 11 ,622 7 0 


, 


2 , 34 ,564 90 
( 14 , 916 3 O 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


. 


. 


2,48, 839 90 


Less expenditure . . 
On Motor Ponds : 

As per last Balance Sheet 
Add depreciation for the year 


2 ,49 ,480 I2 O 

641 3 0 
10 , 524 00 
1 , 440 Oo 


9, 15 , 117 II O 
4, 10 ,517 2 10 


Less expenditure 


. 


. 


. 


. 


11 , 964 00 
1880 o 


11,084 00 


On Science Equipments : 


As per last Balance Sheet . 
Add depreciation for the year . 


. 
. 


1,24,954 6 I 
20 , 000 Oo 


- 


1, 44 ,954 6 

13,311 10 


I 
3 


Less expenditure 


. 


. 


. 


. 


1,31,642 11 10 


2515 


(7) Depreciation Fuad Balance Sheet-- (Contd. ) 


2516 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


2 


D . 


Rs. 


2. p . 


Rs. 


4. D. 


Rs. 2 p . 


Om furniture : 

As per last Balance Sheet 
Add depreciation for the year . 
Less expenditure 


. 


85,373 3 0 
33 ,431 00 


1,18 ,804 30 


20, 123 OO 


4 , 232 O 


24 , 355 00 


On Motor Cars and Station Wagons ; 

As per last Balance Sheet . . 

Add depreciation for the year . . 
On Machines and Cycles : 

As per last Balance Sheet 
Add depreciation for the year . . 
On Science Laboratories . .. 
On Mumtaz Latouch Boarding House 
Interest Account 

As per last Balance Sheet 
Add actual receipt during the year . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1891 


11 , 500 00 
33156 00 


14 ,656 00 
60 ,000 OO 
32,660 I II 


91, 533 2 
17, 883 6 


0 
0 


1,09 ,416 


8 


0 


TOTAL 


13 ,25 ,634 13 10 


TOTAL 


: 


13 ,25,634 13 IO 


(Sd .) OBADDUR RAHMAN RHAN , 

Hory , Treasurer , 
Muslim University , Aligarh , 


[PART1 


· (8 ) Additional and Alteration to be Engineering College 

Building Account Balance Sheet as at 31st March , 1956 


Sec.3(ii)] 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


SU 


Rs. 


a . p . 


: 


Rs. a . p . 


Rs. 


2. p . 


Rs. 


2 . p . 


Central Government Grant for Building 

As per last Balance Sheet . . 
Income by Miscellaneous refund . 
Loan from Medical College . . 
Transferred from Special floating 

reserve fund for roofing of Assembly 
room and radio communication Lab . 


4 ,69,000 oo 

93,642 3 I 
25 ,000 Oo 


Building under Construction 
Engineering College Building Account 

As per last Balance Sheet . 
Less receipt during the year . 


. 
. 


7, 98,877 14 I 

85 00 
7,98,792 14 1 

2,960 10 9 
8,01,753 8 10 

2 ,875 10 9 


Add expenditure . 


. 


. 


. 


35,000 OO 
2 ,08, 567 100 


Advance from M . U . . . . 
Net deficit carried over to Fund Account 

Balance Sheet . . 


Less transferred to Rev. a/c. 


. 


7 ,98 ,877 14 I 


Advances 
1. Against Chaddha 


. 


. 


Accumulated deficit as per last balance 
Sheet 

· 
Add Current year : : : : 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,18812517 


2 ,08 ,567 IO 

2 , 875 10 


O 
9 


22 , 300 Oo 
4 ,906 2 0 
3 , 000 0 0 
1 , 25000 


2 , 11, 443 


4 


9 


31,456 2 0 


2 . International Syndicate 
3. New India Builders . . 
4 . Sangram Singh . . 
Court Expenses against Mohan Lal 

Chaddha , . 
Govt. Grant for Engineering College 

contingencies . 
Addition and Alteration Rev . Account 
met by the University 

TOTAL 


29 50 

846 80 
2 , 11,443 4 9 
10 ,42 ,653 I 10 


TOTAL : 


10 ,42 ,653 


I 10 


· (Sd .) OBAIDUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Hony . Treasurer , 
Muslim University , Aligarh , 


(9 ) Equipment for Engincering College 

Balance Sheet as at 31st March 1956 


2518 


LIABILITES 


ASSISTS 


Rs. 


2 


p . 


Rs. 


a . 


p . 


Rs. 


2. p . 


Rs. 


2 . p . 


Central Government Grant 

As per last Balance Sheet 


10 ,80,000 DO 


Equipment for Engineering College 

As per last Balance Sheet 
Less receipt by refunds . . 


• 
. 


7,89, 683 1 3 

10 ,472 3 3 
7, 79,210 140 
2,30,852 8 6 


10, 10, 063 6 6 


Add expenditure during the year 
Cash Balance with M . U . Fund 

Account 


69,936 96 


GAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


TOTAL 


, 


10 , 80 , 000 OO 


TOTAL 


. 


10 ,80,000 OO 


( Sd .) OBADUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Hony . Treastier , 
Aluslim University , Aligarh . 


[PARTII 


(10) College of Engincering and Technology 

Balance Sheet as at 3151 March , 1956 


SEC.$(ii)] 


LIABILITES 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


2 


p . 


Rs. 


8 . 


p . 


Rs. 


2 , 


p . 


Engineering College Reserve Fund 
Building Fund - 
Equipment Fund 
Machinery Fund 
Acronatic Fund 
Furniture Fund 
Books Fund 
Electrification Fund 
Soap Account 
Depreciation on machinery (Engg. College, 

Civil , Mechanical, Electrical and Work 


Rs. 2 . p . 
2 , 01,723 09 Imoment in G . P . Notes : 
2 ,05, 976 3 I Rs, 2 , 50 ,000 @ 4 % loan 1960 - 70 at per 
2 , 57 , 966 I 11 Building , . 
1 , 70 , 983 5 5 Equioments , , 

12 , 000 0 0 Machinery , , 
12 ,690 89 Aeronautic Account . 
10 , 237 9 3 Furniture Account . 
12 ,830 12 O Books - 
2 8 9 Electrification , 

Loan for Soap Making , 


2 , 50 , 000 0 0 
2 ,05, 976 3 1 
2 , 57 , 966 I II 
1, 70 , 983 5 5 

12 , 000 0 0 
12 , 690 8 
10 ,237 
12 , 830 

500 


oawbouw 


20ago 


shop ) 


As per last Balance Sheet . 
Add deficit for the year . 


. 
. 


Enggi College Revenue Account 
Deficit to the end of 1952 - 53 
Deficit till 1955 - 56 . . 


67, 500 00 
9 ,00000 


, 


. 


4 , 73 ,513 1 5 
7,66 , 562 15 7 12,40 ,076 IO 

501 40 
17, 607 13 0 


76 , 500 OO 

595 3 0 


75 , 904 13 


0 


City & Guids Examination 
Cash with the M . U . Fund Account . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,18812519 


2770 


900 O 


O 


3 ,670 10 


Less expenditure . . . 
Depreciation on Radio and Telephone 
As Per last Balance Sheet . 
Add depreciation for the year . I 
Tool deposit 

. : . . 
Apparatus and Equipment . 
Advance from M . U . . 
Net deficit carried over to Fund Account ] 
Balance Sheet . . 
As per last Balance Sheet , 
Add deficit during the year . . 


9 


1 , 485 90 
K 27 ,465 3 9 
4 ,31,869 4 5 


4, 57 ,298 1 
3,09 ,264 14 


3 
4 


7 ,66 , 562 15 


7 


21 ,91, 368 10 II 


TOTAL 


- 


21, 91, 369 10 11 


TOTAL 
(Sd.) OBADUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Hory . Treasurer , 
Muslim University , Aligarh . 


(II) Tibbiya College Fund 
Balance Sheet as at 31st March , 1956 


2520 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


2 . p . 


Rs. 


a . p . 


Rs. a . p . 
3, 31, 451 15 9 


, 


Tibbiya College Building Fund 
Eye Surgery Fund : 

As per last Balance Sheet 

Add receipt in the year . 
Kitabum - Nabz : 

As per last Balance Sheet 


2 ,603 89 

20 40 


, 


Rs. a . . 
3:31,451 15 9 Tibbiya College Building Account , 

Tibbiya College Revenue Account : 

Deficit to the end of 1952 -53 . . 
2 ,623 129 

Deficit opward till 1955 -56 . , 
Tibbiya College Boarding House 

Account . 

Tibbiya College Student Account . 
398 2 O 

Cash with State Bank of India , 
7 , 000 0 0 Aligarh ( M . U . Fund Account) . 
7 ,000 0 0 


1977 ,595 15 
2,94 533 14 


3 
9 


4 ,72 ,129 14 


O 


359 


2 


O 


2 , 755 O 6 
7 , 561 0 6 


Add receipt for the year . 


. 


, 


3900 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA;SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


2, 556 


9 


0 


1.500 


: 


Depreciation on Building 
Govt . Grant for Building 
Depreciation on X -Ray Machine 

As per last Balance Sheet 
Add depreciation during the year 

the year : 
Advance from M . U . . . . 
Net deficit carried over to Fund Alc . 1 
Balance Sheet 

As per last Balance Sheet : 
Add deficit during the year , J 

Тоті. 


2,000 OO 
1,71,446 106 


1,60,716 10 I 
1, 33 ,817 4 8 


2,94,533 149 
8 ,16 ,454 7 9 


TOTAL , 


8, 16 ,454 


7 


9 


( Sd. ) OBAIDUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Hory. Treasurer , 
Muslim University , Aligarh . 


(PARTII 


( 12 ) Fund Account 
Balance Sheet as at 31st Mack , 1956 


Stc.8(ii)] 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Rs. 2. p . 


Rs. 


2 . p . 


Capital in furniture, fittings and apparatus 

equipments 
Reserve Against Orders . 
Reserye Fund (Girls High School 

Account ) . 
Suspense Account . 
Undisbursed salaries 
Sundry liabilities 
Liability on account of Riding School 

contribution 
Water cooling apparatus 
Salaries payable 
Sale proceeds of bricks purchased out 

of Aftab Hall Common Room Fund 


Rs. 2. p. 

Rs. 2 . p . 
Investments : 
5 , 76 ,890 I 4 
37 , 899 II II Rs. 5 ,000 at 4 % U . P . State Dev. 1963 

Building Account ( W . College ) 
18 , 100 00 Furniture fittings apparatus and equip 
24 ,097 14 11 ment 
26 ,604 8 10 Cooling apparatus for mosque : 
57 , 282 15 10 Advance against Salaries 

Oustanding Account : 
500 00 As per last balance sheet 

3 ,84,380 4 I 
2 ,623 8 0 Less Receipt during the year . . 2 ,67, 705 8 3 
16 , 870 6 3 

1 , 16 ,674 II 10 
5 ,092 90 Add : Transaction during the year 1 ,06 ,509 12 8 
Advance on Account 

2 ,27 , 029 4 IO 
3 » (Women s College ) . 2, 709 5 0 


5 ,050 4 
20 ,871 14 
5 ,76 ,890 I 

2 ,623 8 
3 , 232 14 


3 
0 
4 
0 
6 


2, 23, 184 


8 


6 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,18812521 


2 ,29,738 9 IO 


, 
. 


Cash Bacarres : 

Reserve Fund , , , 
Floating Reserve Fuod . . 
Special Floating Reserve Fund 
Trust Fund , , , , 
Building Fund . . . 


5,169 6 5 
1933 ,542 5 7 
2,28,928 09 

5 ,940 6 11 
7,469 I II 


Permanent Advance 


18 ,090 


4 


0 


, 
. 


Ι ΙΙ 


18,000 0 0 


Loons to : 

M . U . Provident Fund Account 
Tih , College for non -Recurring Ex 

penses . . . . 
Medical Department , , 


24 ,561 36 
3,000 DO 


( 12 ) Fund Account Balance Sheet (Cond.) 


R 


. 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


4. p . 


Rs. 


p . 


. 


Depreciation Fuod . 
Eogg . College Equipment 
Engg . College & Technology 
Tibbiya Coliege . . 


Rs. 2. p . 
4 , 10 ,517 2 10 

69 ,936 9 6 
17 ,606 13 0 
2,556 9 0 


. 
. 
. 
. 


Rs. 2 . P . 
4,000 DO 
10 , 000 OO 


M . U . Girls High School , 
Sahibzada Sajid Ali Khan . 
Tib . College for purchase & Sale 

Medicina 
Games Fund 


. 
. 
of 


8,81,656 


7 II 


5 ,000 Oo 
3 , 120 00 


67 ,681 3 6 


Cwrant Account Balantes : 

M . U . Giarle High School Currect A /C 
Cost of lost books of Lytton Library 


- 


6 ,766 13 6 
1,202 4 7 

552 60 


Advance to Engineering College 

Tib . College . 


2, 57, 782 15 8 
1,71,446 10 6 


2522THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


4,29,229 10 2 


Interest A /C (W . College) 


. 


, 


43, 862 1 0 


Library deposit Account 
Boys Fund Account (City School) 


1 ,825 3 0 
2 ,514 II 9 


12 ,861 6 10 


3 ,26 , 567 OO 


180 56 


Terminal Exam Fee (Arts ) 


. 


1, 239 


8 


6 


Construction of Staff Quarters (Elec 

tricity Depptt. ) . . . 
Women s College Construction A /C 

(G , Grant ) . . . . 
Construction of saifi Hostel , 
Tib . College Dawakhana A /C (edyance 

to meet the expenditure ) . . 
Rock Feller Foundation A / C . . 
Inter Varsity Atheletic Games A /C . 
R . D . H . Account (Women s College) 
Staff Club (Women s College) . 

» » University Account 


» » (Science ). . 
Breakage of Chemistry Deptt . 

Physics Deptt 
Geography Deptt . 
Geology Deptt. . 
Property Deptt . 


3 ,337 30 
3 ,816 60 
314 4 3 
13 OO 
42 Oo 
621 120 


6 , 398 2 5 

781 OO 
1,737 OO 

9 14 0 
2 ,685 6 3 

300 OO 
- - - - 


12, 091 II 2 


T. B . Patients 


. 


. 


. 


. 


210 OO 


MU . Non Recurring Grant for Sc. 

Equipokeat ( W . College ) . . 


22 ,502 10 


6 


[PARTII 


T . B . Sanitorium - 
M . U . School Museum 


. 
. 


Liabilities Account 
Boarding House Dues Accont 


194 70 
424 29 


Sra 
. 
3 
( 
17 
) 
] 


. 


. 


MU. School Montessori Section 
Mosque Fund . . 
Grape Yard Fund . . 
Saifi Gold Accouat . . 
Rent of Yousuf Villa Nasheman 


342 120 

405 26 . 10 ,342 O 3 
- - - - - - - - 

2,9720 
2,619 13 3 

504 0 . 3 
2 ,500 OO 
1,632 15 O 


Salary payable Women s College) 
House rent 
Suspense Account » » . 
Rent of Memon Manzil . . 
Rent of Wali Manzil 


8 ,377 14 0 

77 80 
284 15 O 
76 36 
30 1 9 


9,465 4 0 


Foreign Study loan 


. 


. 


. 


4,217 6 2 


14,446 2 8 Accrued Income : 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Miscellaneous Deposits : 


24 , 808 30 
8 ,878 100 


. 


- 


Agriculture College Account . 
Flying Club Account 
Tarwala Burgalow Mosque Fud 
Ballona Waqf Fund . . . 


8, 194 1 6 
5 . 903 7 4 

1028 

104 12 3 
- - - - - - - - 


Contribution from various depart 

ments of University . . . 
UNESCO Coupons Scheme , 
Rs. 25,000 3 % Fundirg loan. 1966 -68 

(Women s College) . . . 
Rs., 19,000 4 % loan 1960 -70 (Girls 

School) . . . . . 


THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
: 
SEPTEMBER 
26 
, 
1959 
/ 
ASVINA 
4 
, 
1881 
2529 


26,117 76 


14, 304 13 I 


18 , 100 00 


77 , 904 16 


Administrative & Ministerial Staff 

Association 


1,668 OO 


Cash 


Blind SchoolAdenities Fund , 
H . H . The Rampur Donation 

Political Sc Books 


. 
for 


534 II a 


At State Bank of India , Aligarh 

Women s College) . 
A State Bank of India, Karachi . 


2, 209 


2 


G 


60 , 187 12 10 

587 IO7 


Tafsir Class Expenses 


. 


. 


. 


171 10 


i 


At State Bank of India , 

(Girls School) . . 


Aligarth 
. 


6 ,616 13 6 


67, 392 


4 


4 


( 12 ) Fund Account Balance Sheet - (Contd .) 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Rs. 4. D. 


Rs. 


4. p. 


Rs. 


2 . p . 


Rs. 


2, 


p . 


Donation for Theology Books . 

Jslamic Studies (books ) 


3 , 300 00 
8 , 702 0 0 


1,787 5 5 
1,488 00 


» 


» 


» 


building) 


1,500 OO 


General Provident Fund AC 
Govt. grant for special increment for 

teachers . . . . 
Coy . P . F . contribution against Engg . 

College Alc . . . 
Deficits : 
Reilenue Account : 


» 


» 
>> 


Hindi & Sanskrit Books 
Blind School . 


100 OO 
1,375 2 6 


40 Oo 


19 ,560 


9 


6 


2524THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


Water Charges 
Women s College Bus Account 


257 12 6 
1 , 100 00 


. 


Vendor s Security Deposit Alc . 
Col. Haider Memorial Fund . 


68 00 
10 OO 


As per last Balance Sheet 
Revenue expenditure during the year 


18 ,31 ,239 14 I 
44, 26925 7 2 


Rent of Shahjahan Manzil 


242 00 


S . S . Dining Hall Account 


Less Revenue receipts (Appendix A ) 
Medical College Account . . 
Credit Note Debited by Bank 
Engg. College Prospectus Alc 
Historical Research Account : 


88 13 0 
7154 00 
864 30 
32 00 


62,58 , 165 5 3 
37,81,524 II 5 24,76 ,640 9 10 

245 IO 
5 , 336 8 0 

21 JO 0 


Rent ofMd. Amin Hostel 
M U . Industries Account 


2 ,816 12 


6 


o 


Security Deposit Account 
Security Deposit Account ( W . College ) 
Electric Deptt . Accessories Alc 
Rent of Conference 
Income Tax -Account . , , 


382 
12,454 3 
15 ,917 8 


9 


25-784 13 
59 ,541 12 


0 
6 


85 ,326 


9 


6 


1 


3464 


As per last Balance Sheet 

Add expenditure during the year 
CentralGool. Grants : 
(1) Science books and journals for 

the Library , Rp. 1, 00 ,000 , - . , 


2 , 120 


2 


O 


(PartI 


Convocation at Home Account 
Old Boys Association 
Salary Stamps . . 


2 5 0 
37 4 0 
269 14 0 


69 13 
15 ,082 10 


29, 481 14 


9 
9 


SEC.3(ii)] 


400 OO 


(2 ) Implementation of sbceme of de 

velopment in Geology of Rs. 20 ,000 , 
9 (3) International Geography Seminar . 

(4 ) Visit to Republic of China , . 
(5) Construction of New Library Build 

ing . . . . 
(6 ) U .G .C . grant of Rs. 1,54 ,000 for 

acquiring certain evacuee property 
in the vicinity of University : 


485 14 0 
278 0 


Hire of Gowns . 
Md Ishaq Premium , . 
Ziaul Islam Premium 
Niamatullah Khan Premium 
Advance against Salaries ( W . College) 


888 14 0 


91 00 
275 136 
25 00 


. 


1,05 ,000 


O 


1 ,23 ,561 8 


6 


O 


1, 00 , 000 O 

3 ,333 5 


4 


1, 06 ,666 10 


8 


AppendixB 


Blind School Account 

598 2 3 1,503 5 9 Construction A /c for Unfinished Hostel 

out of Rs. 1, 10 , 000 /-Govt. loan . 

Paid during the year to Government . 
Over Draft Bank Balance State 
Bank of India , Aligarh . . 

2 ,32,989 7 9 
Unspent balance of Government 
graat (Central) . 

12 ,29 ,099 9 10 
Grants for special purposes U .P . 
Government Grant , 

43,096 7 6 , 12,72, 196 I 4 
Loan from Medical College 

16,32,000 oo 
Provident Fund Account (W . College) . 2, 133 00 
Loan on Provident Fund Account W . 
College ) . 

1 ,327 OO 
Interest on Provident Fund (W . College) 18 5 0 
Hospital Dues (Women s College) . 

278 13 6 
Dinner Account (W . College) . 

soo 
Magazine Account ( W . College ) . 

1, 732 4 4 
Donation Account ( W . College) , 

2 ,048 oo 7 ,542 6 6 
Balance out of Non -Recurring Govern 

ment grant (Women s College) . 2 ,310 90 
Building Fund (Women s College ) - . 20 ,871 14 0 
M . U . Grant for Science Equipment 
Women s College ) . 

22,502 10 6 
UP, Government grant for Building 

(Women s College) . . . . 25, 000 OO 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4.18812525 


( 12 ) Fuod Account Balance Sheet - contd . ) 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


p . 


Rs. 


& 


P . 


Rs. 


2. P. 


Rs. 


2 


p. 


Rs. & 
4, 00, 000 0 

287 2 


0 
0 


Central Government grant for Building 

(Women s College ) . . . . 
Proctorial fines . . 
U . P . Government grant for maintenance 

of Hostel ( W . College) , . 
Petty Casb Account . . 
B . C . of Sheikh Abdullah . 


4 ,85, 108 2 9 


14 , 135 15 3 

Oo6 
25 OO 


Advance pryments ; 

S . S . Hall . 
MU. School B /House A / C 
M . U . Deposit Account . 


26 ,044 90 
46, 695 II 0 
1971, 000 o 


2526THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


2 ,43 ,765 5 


0 


Sale of publication , History Depart 

ment . 
Sale of publications, Islamic Studies 
Association of Scientfic Workers of 

India (Aligarh Branch ) . . . 


206 0 0 
19 3 0 
18 OO 


243 30 
3,911 00 
12 ,293 ) 3 


Dr. Keith Lyl visit Account , . 
Electric Revenue Account . . 
Trust Fund Interest Account for 

Scholarships out of endowment a / c . 
Receipts . . . . . 

Payments . 
Construction of Women s College 

Hostel (G . Grant) 


- 3 , 789 IS II 
10 , 122 00 


3,667 15 11 


9,658 , 


6 


Balance out of Government loan of Rs. 

1, 10 , 000 / - for Unfinished Hostel . 


31,327 _ 13 


3 


Scholarships and Medals ; 

(a ) Sir Shah Md. Sulaiman Gold Meda 


424 12 O 


PartII 


10 ,600 OO 
200 OO 
30 OO 


SEC.3(ii)] 


4 ,250 80 


(b ) Supends for Education Depart 

ment . . - . 
" Watumal Foundation Scholarship . 

adriah Scholarship . 

d . Amin Scholarship for Uni 
versity Students . . 
Md. Amin Scholarship for Engi 

neering College Students . . 
(g ) FarhatMemorial Prize 
(h ) Haji Md. Zahoor Md. Saeed 

Scholarship . . . . . 
(1) Donation from Sir Shah Md. 
Sulemnan . 

. . 
6 ) Donation from A . M . Salim for 

lady Ali Shah Gold Medal . . 
(k ) Donation from A . M Mustafa for 

General Scholarship 
(1) Donation from Sir Agha Khan , 


4,200 80 
5.075 0 0 
1,635 00 


11,540 


9 


ow 


235 


5 


1,000 OO 
5 ,000 OO 


44, 191 10 3 


7, 500 OO 
1, 500 OO 


Depreciation Fund (Women s College) : 

I. Oo Buildings . . . . 
2 . Apparatus and Appliances , . 
Sir William Marris Scholarship A C 
Repayment ofGovernment loan AC 
Rs. 1, 10 , 000 / - for Unfinished Hostel 

(Paid during the year ) . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,18812527 


9, 000 OO 
75 80 


1, 10 ,000 OO 


3 ,333 


5 


4 


1,06 ,666 10 8 


TOTAL 


TOTAL 


. 


. 


. 


49, 37 , 491 13 


6 


TOTAL 


. 


. 


. 


49,37,491 13 6 


(Sd .) OBAIDUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Hony . Treasurer , 
Muslim University, Aligarb . 


APPENDIX 


A 


Abstract Deficit and Surplus Account of M . U , Fund of all the Departments and All jed Institutions for the period ended 3151 March , 1956 


Departments 


As per last Bal- 

ance Sheet 


Deficit or Sur - 
plus as per Reve . 
Due a / c. during 

the year 


Total Deficit or 
Surplus during 

the year 


Remarks 


Rs. 


2. 


p . 


Rs. 


2 . 


P . 


Rs. 


a . 


p . 


I . MedicalDepartment , 
2 . Gardens and Lands 
3 . M . U . Gazette . 
4 . Ahmadi School for the Blind 
5 . Conservancy Department 
6 . Polytechnic Department 


95,626 4 3 
58 ,910 13 6 
7 ,809 29 
2 , 191 120 
44 ,401 14 6 
30 , 459 2 3 


46 , 808 2 II 
28 ,711 4 9 
3 ,662 90 
3, 786 15 0 
23, 967 9 3 
20, 962 5 3 


1, 42 , 434 7 2 
87,622 23 
11 ,471 II 9 

5 ,978 II O 
68, 369 7 9 
51,421 7 6 


2528THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


7 . Electricity Department . 
8 . Telephone Department 
9 . M . U , High School 
IO . M . U , City High School 
II . M . U , City Branch School 
12 . Women s College . 
13 . Girls High School . 
- 4 . Agriculture Farm and Fort 

Property Department . 
Pagineering College . 


134 ,650 5 6 

6 ,933 14 0 
71, 551 3 3 
72 , 142 9 5 

8 , 096 96 
1 ,57,514 35 

3 , 286 II 6 
61, 187 II 8 

10 ,035 7 3 
4 , 57, 298 I 3 


+ 6 ,208 7 

3 , 596 9 
38 , 839 10 
27 , 960 10 

52247 6 
1 ,34 ,204 14 

13 ,835 13 
20 , 261 7 

8 , 001 I2 
3 ,09, 264 14 


booONOOWWOO 


maon 

OOONOWom 


+ 40 , 858 126 

10 ,530 70 
1 , 10 , 390 13 5 
1,00 , 103 4 2 

13 , 343 15 6 
2 ,91,719 I 5 

17 ,222 9 0 
81 ,449 3 5 

18 ,037 3 4 
7 , 66 , 562 I5 7 


IH 


او يادنا 


4 ,73,513 


I 


5 


Deficit to the end of 1952 - 53 

shown in the Engineering College 
Balance Sheet 


ditions and Alterations to Engi 
neering College . . : 


2, 08 ,567 100 


2,875 10 9 


2,11,443 4 . 9 


. Tibbiya College . 


. 


. 


. 


1,60,716 10 o 


1933,817 4 8 


2,94,533 14 9 


+ 1,77, 595 15 3 


Deficit to the end of 1952 -53 Shown 

in the Tibbiya College Balance 
Sheet 


[PARTII 


19 . Proctorial Department , 
20 . Examination Department . 
21. Muslim University Revente Account 
22 . Institute of Ophthalmology . 
23. Institute of Islamic Studies 


10 , 006 14 8 

14 , 423 26 18 , 729 56 
3 , 84 ,630 60 3 , 07 , 358 35 
. . 

72 ,835 
74 

3 0 
41 ,597 14 6 


10 ,006 14 8 
33 , 152 7 6 
77,272 2 11 
72, 35 3 O 
41,597 14 6 


Sza.%(li)] 


TOTAL . 


. 


. 


. 


18 ,65,890 

34 ,650 


3 
5 


7 9, 58 , 967 6 
6 13 , 13 , 566 10 


2 
5 


25 , 17, 499 6 

40 , 858 12 


4 
6 


+ 6 , 51, 109 0 


8 


GRAND TOTAL . 


18 ,31,289 14 I 


6 ,45 , 400 II 9 24 ,76 ,640 9 10 


+ 6 ,51, 109 08 
31, 27,749 10 6 


. 


(Sd.) OBAIDUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Hory. Treasurer, 
Muslim University Aligart , 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1950/ASVINA4,19812529 


2530 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 / ASVINA 4, 1881 


[PART I 


APPENDỊY B 
Showing UnspentBalances ofContral and ProvincialGouts. Grants for 1955 - 56 . 


Rs. 1 . p . 


i 


1,345 80 
31,848 7 9 
7 ,286 4 9 
1,821 OO 


O 


. 
. 


. 


1,710 


5 


CentralGovt. Grant: 

I. For Post Graduate development in Physics (under Dr. P . S . Gill ) 
2 . Research grant for Post Graduate development in Physics 
3 . For Post Graduate development in Botany . . . . 
4 . For Regional Survey in Gcography 

. 

. 
5. For Scheme re -oll from wild cassia varatus Chemn , 
6 . For Practical training scholarships (Engineering College) 
7 . For Sanskrit and Arabic Scholarships . . . . 
8 . For research in chemical investigation of Kharif seeds . . 
9 . For Ophthalmology Building . . . . . 
10 . For research scholarships ( under Dr. P , S . Gill) . . . 
11 . Special grant for purchase of equipment for Chem stry Deptt . 
12 . Special grant for equipment for Zoology Department . 
13 . Special grønt for equipment for Gcology . . . . 
14 . Special grant for equipment for Botany . . 
15. Special grant for Cquipment for Chemistry , 

TOTAL 


733 00 
5 ,000 OO 
13 ,447 14 6 
9,762 12 O 

250 

16 14 0 
7,850 00 
4 ,846 4 9 
85,670 II 9 


. 


. 


17, 125 oo 
4 , 942 13 6 

0 4 7 
1,800 OO 
38 ,286 6o 
6 , 311 4 6 

0 2 6 


3 ,006 


7 


0 


38 ,716 15 


3 


16 . For Library Building . 
17 . For research and publication of History (Old ) 
18. For Books for Mathematics 

. . . . 
19 . For scholarships in Humanitics . . . . . . . 
29 . For development in Chemistry of Rs. 50 ,000 ) - for purchase of equipments 
21. For development in Botany of Rs . 40 ,000 /- for purchase of equipments . 
22. For development in Zoology of Rs. 50 ,000/- for purchase of equipments . 
23 . For implementation of schemes of devr 

Loology or 
Rs. 45,000 / 
24 For Implementation of schemes of development in Chemistry, for 

Rs. 80, 000 / 
25. For implementation of schemes of development in Bio - Chemistry 

for Rs. 75, 000 /- . 
26 . For implementation of schemes of development in Botany for 

Rs. 70 , 000 /- , , 
27 . For implementation of instruction for the D ploma Courses in En 
gineering College . . 

. . 

.. .. .. .. 

.. 

. . 

. . 
28 . Non -recurring grant forHistorical research . . . . . 
29. For Scientific rescarch training Scholarships (7 & 5) under Dr. P . S . Gill 
30 . For Personal allowance to lecturers . . . . . . . 
31. For project for research in social tension (Philosophy Department) grant 

for 1954 - 55 , . . 
32. CentralGovernment grant of Rs. 5 ,000 /- for fundamental rescarch 1954 - 55 
33. U . G . C . grant of Rs. 4, 24 ,000 /- för squipment for the development of 

Microwave Spectroscopy . . . . . . . . 
34. U . G , C . grant of Rs. 50 ,000 /- for purchase of books and journals and 

Scientific and technical subjects 
35. Government grant of 2 lacs . . . . . . . . 
36 . U . G , C . grant ofRs. 50 ,000 /- for development of scientific education and 

research in Chemistry . . . . . . . . . 


19 ,824 5 6 


1,00 , 000 0 0 
5 ,875 8 3 

210 5 3 
8 ,415 2 0 


N 


5 , 808 13 0 
2,972 12 0 


3 , 60 , 807 3 


0 


21, 118 10 9 
6 ,279 5 O 


50,000 O 


O 


Sec . 9 ( li)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959/ ASÙINA 4, 1881 253 1 


Rs. a , p . 


RS. 


21 . 


P . 


5 ,000 


0 


0 


25,033 


7 


3 


24,643 29 


19,522 15 3 
7 ,200 100 


37. U . G . C . grant ofRs. 5, 000/- for development( of higher scientific education 

and research in Botany . . 
38 , U . G . C . grant of Rs. 30 , 00 ) / - for development of higher scientific cdu 

cation and research in Zoology . . . . 
39. U . G . C . grant of Rs. 49,000 /- for development of higher scientific cdu 

cation and rescarch in Geology . . . . 
40 , U . G . C . grant of Rs. 20 ,000 /- for development of higher scientitic edu 

cation and reserch in Muchematics , . . . 
41. Governm a gent Cur extension service for Rs. 10 ,000 /- ( 2n11119talment ) 
42 . CentralGovernment grant of Rs. 5 ,000 /- for individual research workers 

for fundamental research ( 1955 - 56 ) . . . . . . . 
43 . U . G . C . grant of Rs. 3,337 /8 /- for 41udy of Arabic Persian or Pali Sans 

krit . . . . . . . . . . . . 
44. Gyvernment grant re : arecunnol schens of Rs. 1,400 /- under Chemistry 
45. Central Social Welfare Board Grant of Rs. 2,500 /- for the Blind School. 
46 . U . G . C . grant in system of examination . . . . . . 
47. Central Government grant of Rs. 75 ,000/ - Recurring and non -Recurring) 

for M . U . Tib . College . . . . . . . . 
48 . U . G . C . grant for developm - li of the Iligh Altitude Rescarch Observa 

cory , Gulmarg for Rs. 48, 000 /- . . . . . 


5 ,000 OO 


1,687 80 


Department 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


150 00 


7 ,905 100 


74 , 766 74 0 


2, 48 ,000 OO 


Tutal 


. 


. 


12 , 29 , 099 


9 10 


4 ,620 13 9 

713 6 6 
2 ,050 00 

009 
1,913 5 6 

877 3 6 
1,723 4 0 

48 30 


U . P . Government Grants : 
49 . Grant tur Cosmic rays Azimcethal effect ( under Dr. P . S . Gill) and study 

of rare cvonts of cosmic rays using nuclear Eniulsions and study of 

heavy muson . . . . . 
50 . Grant for Saponin (under Dr. Farung ) 
51. For research in Muttrics (under Dr. S . M . Shah ) . 
52 . For research Integral Functions (under Dr. Farvoq and Dr. Shah ) 
53 . For research on insuline ( under Dr. P . A . Rao ) . . . . 
54 . For reszarch on colouringmiterial ( under Dr. M . A . Azi : ) . . 
55 . For research 1), D . T . T . C .P . , linder Dr. Omar Farvou) . . 
56 . For minufaciure of Glocouse . . . . . . 
57. For Standırdisation of Electronic circuit in Cosmic rays (under Dr. P. S . 

Gill) 
58 . For rescurch on Fign Value ofMuttrics of Finatoda 
59. For Preparation melta Phosphate and estimation of phosphorus, Deptt . 

of Chemistry 
60. For research work in Phy9109 ( under Dr. P . S . Gill ) for Mr. Rais Almad 
61. For Scientific research under Dr. A . R . Qidwui of Chemistry Department 
62. For Scientilic research uncler Dr. A , M . Khan of Botany Department , 
63. For Pelrological research of coal ( under Dr. P . N . Ganju , Gcology Deparl 

ment) 
64. Grant from India Cultural Relations for Cultural Schularships 
65. For Chemistry of Steroids (under Dr. A . R . Kidwain , Chemistry Depart 


352 12 6 
997 0 0 


350 00 
1 , 150 00 
1, 172 9 0 
214 90 


4, 114 90 

6 Os 


ment ) 


2 ,420 OXO 


630 0 0 


66 . For effect of environmental conditions on the development of root rol of 

cercals (inder Dr. A . M . Khan Bolany Department) . 
67. U . P . Government grant of Rs. 5 ,000 / - fur guvery of living conditions of 

OX - criminal tribes (Economics Depit .) under temporary charge of Mr. 
K , A . Nauvi. 

. 


8 ,290 II 0 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


2522 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959/ ASVINA 4 , 1881 


Part II 


Rs. 2 , p . 


1,500 OO 


68. U . P . Government grant for Tibbiya College 
69 . U . P . Government grant of Rs. 8 , 400 / - / - for Mathematics Department 

(under Dr. Jamil Siddiqi) for rescarch in generalized classes of Quasi 

Analytic function . . 
70 . U . P . Government granı for Tibhiya College . 

Total 

. . . . . 


8 ,400 Oo 
1,552 00 


43,996 


7 


6 


( Sd .) OBAIDUR RAHMAN KIAN , 

Hony. Treasurer 
Muslim University, Aligarh . 


( 13) Provident Fund Account 
Balance Sheet as on 31st March , 1956 


SEQ.1 


- 


LLABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


2. 


p. 


Rs. 


2 . 


p . 


Rs. 


2. 


p. 


1 


Rs. 2, 
20 , 86 ,712 II 


p . 
9 


GA 


Intestments : 


Provident Fund Account as per last 

Balance Sheet . . 
Add ; Members subscription and 

Departmental contribution , 
University and allied institu 
tions 

. . 


32 ,731 14 0 
99 , 500 0 0 
39 ,793 00 


2 , 28 ,809 II 


Rs. 36 ,000 @ 3 % U . P . Loan 19614 

66 . 
Rs. 1,00,000 @ 4%. U . P. Loan 1963 
Rs. 40 ,000 @ 3 % loan 1963- 65 
Rs. 5 ,000 @ 51 % C . P . T . Deb . of 
1926 

: . . . 


0 


23 ,15 ,522 6 


9 


4 ,850 00 


OFA: 


H 


1,36,033 7 8 31,79 ,488 15 I 

7 , 186 IO IO 


7 ,28,751 4 0 
2 , 66 ,230 0 4 


1 , 136 10 


4 


52 ,730 


7 


Less : Provident Fund paid to mem 

bers . 
Investment Depreciation Funi i 
Interest Account (Undistributed ) as 

per last Balance Sheet 
Add : Interest received during the 

year . . . . . 
Miscellaneous Deposit A c . 
Mr. Rafi Rahmatullah s Account 
Suspense Account . 
University Loan Account 


54, 192 8 5 


0 


55 ,329 29 

18 15 0 
8 ,0826 

43 3 11 
18 , 000 0 0 


Rs. 6 ,92 , 100 C4 % loan 1960 - 70 . 
Rs. 2 ,76 ,500 @ 3 % loan 1963-65 . 
Rs. 60 , 000 @ 3 % Ist Devl, loan 

1970 - 75 
Rs . 4,25,000 at 12 years P. O . N . 

S . C . - . 
Rs. 1443,000 
Rs. 17 ,700 @ 3 % Victory Loan 1957 
Rs. 66 ,000 @ 31 % National Plan 

loan 1956 
Rs. 5, 000 at 7 Years National Saving 

Certificate 
Rs. 20 ,000 @ 4 %. U , P . State Devl. 

loan 1967 . . . . 
Rs . 17, 000 @ 47 . U . P . State Devl. 

2nd Issue . . . . 


26, 


4 , 25 ,000 0 0 
1 ,43, 000 0 0 

17,434 80 
65,566 14 O 

530000 
19, 900 OO 


. 


16,915 OO 19, 17402 15 10 


, 


Redeemed security worth Rs, 17 ,000 

@ 41 % loan 1955 - 60 . . 


9 ,320 13 


0 


.2 


, 


(13 ) Provident Fund Account - Conid . 
Balance Sheet at on 31st March 1956 - -condd. 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


2 . F. 


Rs. 2. p . 


Redeemed @ 3 % U . P . loan 1953 -55 

portion of Rs. 1,00 , 156 4 
Loan Account : 


Rs. a. . 
156 40 


Rs. 2. p . 
9,477 Io 


1,07 ,957 

200 


7 
0 


5 
0 


1 .08 , 157 


7 


5 


1,31,429 511 
14,212 100 


(2 ) Loan to subscribers 

. 
(b ) Building loan investment 
Proforma interest on National Saving 

Certificates . 
Interest not received during the year 

1954 - 55 . . . 
Outstanding Account (personal and 
University contribution ; : 
( a ) M . Ü . Fund Account 
b ) M . U . Women s College Account 
(C ) Electric Department . 
Cash with the State Bank of India , 

Aligarh Current Account . 


2534THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


57 2 0 
2 , 133 00 

25 II 0 


2 ,218 13 


0 


85 ,250 14 11 
22,68 ,149 4 1 


TOTAL 


22 ,68, 149 


4 


1 


TOTAL 


(Sd .) OBAIDUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Hony . Treasurer , 
Muslim University, Aligarh . 


[PARTD 


- 


- 


(14 ) Medical College Account 
Balance Sheet as on 31st March, 1950 . 


SEC.3(ii)] 


- 


- 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


- 


Individual Donations . . . 
Estate Donations 
National Saving Scheme Certificate 

Investment Fund 
Contribution to Medical Depart 
ment for expenses of Organising 
Secretary payable to M . U . Fund 

Account 
Contribution for Medical College 

Account keeping payable to M . U . 

Fund Account . . 
Interest Account : 


- 


Rs. 2, P . Rs. 2 . p . 

Rs. 2. P. Rs. 2. p. 
23 , 99 ,578 12 8 Int estments : 
16 ,05,000 OO 

Rs. 1, 00 , 000 @ 3 Victory loan 1957 1,00, 750 0 0 
1 , 20 , 000 0 0 Rs, 10 , 00 , 000 @ 3 . Victory loan 
1959 -61 , 

10,05,666 10 S 
Rs. 21, 00 ,000 @ 3 ., Ist Dev . loan 
1960 - 70 . 

20, 82,257 25 
4 ,912 OO 

Rs. 2,00,000 @ 3;. U . P. Ioani 
1961-66 

2 , 10 ,591 13 3 
Rs. 50,000 @ 4% Dev . loan 1963 : 

49. 750 00 
2, 000 OO 6 ,912 OO Rs. 2, 80,000 @ 3 Conversion loan 

1946 - 

2 ,86 ,449 12 
Rs. 1,00,000 @ 3 . Funding loan 
1966 - 68 . 

1 , 04490 49 
7 - 42 ,340 0ī Rs. 37 . 500 G . P . Notes 1957 . 

37 ,476 50 
1, 16 ,082 12 0 

Rs. 1, 00 , 000 G . P . Notes 1957 . 1, 00 , 000 0 0 
25 , 073 00 

Rs. 1, 20 , 000 National Saying Scheme 

Certificates ( 12 years ) , 1,20 ,000 O 40 ,97432 04 
8 ,83 ,495 12 7 
1,28 ,655 14 ó 7,54 ,839 14 7 Purchaseund sale of medicines : 


- 


- 


As per last Balance Sheet 
Add ; Receipt during the year . 
Add : Misc. Refunds . . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPI EMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,18812535 


, 
. 


Less : Expenditure 


. 


. 


. 


- 


As per last Balance Sheet . . 
Add : Expenditure during the year . 


1,09 , 158 IO II 

830 I 6 


Medical Study Loan : 

As per last Balance Sheet . 
Add : amount received during the 

year . . . . . 


9,068 5 3 


-- 


15 ,000 O O 


. 


1,09 , 988 12 5 

2 , 070 1 6 


24 ,068 5 3 
11 777 4 0 


Less Receipt during the year . 
Sundry Liabilities Acarunt : 

Advanæ on account . . 


1, 07,918 IO II 

700 OO 
43408 4 9 


Less amount paiủ during the year . 


12,291 I 3 


( 14 ) Medical College Account - contd . 
Balance Sheet as on 31st March 1956 - concld . 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Rs. 2 . p . 


Rs. a . p . 


Rs. 


2 , 


P . 


Rs, 


a . 


P 


Aliscellaneous Deposits : 


3 ,1.44 OO 


1 . Suspense Account 
2 . House Reat , , 
3 . Lab , Income 
4 , Prospectus Account 
5 . Pathology Exam , a /c , 
6 . Blood Test Fee 
7 . Govt. grant for Medical Students 
8 . Income from Rent of Medhurst 


75 II 6 
282 II 9 
275 80 
61 70 
166 11 0 
103 00 


Salary payable . 
Loan Account : 
M . U . Fund Account 
Addition and Alteration to Engg . 

College . . 
Grindley Bank Account 
Cash Book Balance on 31- 3 - 1956 . 


6.32,000 0 0 
25,000 OO 6, 57,000 OO 


gift 


948 IO O 
375 00 


2 , 288 II 3 


9 ,402 
20 , 905 


4 
3 


6 
3 


2536THEGAZETTEOFINDLI;SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


TOTAL 


49, 00 ,910 


7 


9 


TOTAL 


, 


, 


49,00 ,910 7 9 


( Sd.) OBAIDUR RAHMAN KAAN , 

Hon . Treasitet , 
Muslim University, Aligarh . 


- 


[PartII 


( 15, Female Education Association Account 

Balance Sheet is un 31st flurch , 1956 


SFC.8(ii) 


LI 


TIES 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


2 , 


p . 


Rs. 


a . 


F . 


Rs. 


2, 


p . 


Rs. 


a . 


p . 


J ESIments : 


Reserve Fund Investment 
Current Account . . 


. 
. 


, 
. 


1,71, 581 210 

15 , 574 10 6 


ESPE 


1, 87 , 155 13 


4 


26 , 117 7 6 
79,600 Oo 


Rs. 25, 000, - at 36 Funding Loan 

1966 -68 
Rs. 30 ,000, - at 4 % . State Develop 

ment loan 1965. 
Rs. 1,500 :- @ 37 . Conversion loan 

1946 
Rs. 30 ,000, - @ 3 loan 1963-65 . 
Rs. 4 , 500 , - @ 4 . loan 1960- 70 . 
Rs. 30, 000 :- 7 years National 

Savings Certificates ( 30 -3 - 1962 ) 
Cash Book Balance . . . 


1 ,511 13 + 
29 ,953 2 0 
4 , 398 120 


30, 000 OO 1971, 581 2 10 

15 ,574 10 6 


- 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA1,18812537 


TOTAL 


1,87, 155 13 4 


TOTAL 


1,87, 155 13 4 


= 


( Sd .) OBAIDUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Hony, Treasurer , 
Muslim University Aligarh . 


= 


( 16 ) M . U . Deposit Account 
Balance Sheet as on 31st March , 1956 


2538 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- -- - 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


- - - -- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


Rs. 


. 


Rs. 


2. 


P . 


Rs. 


2 . 


p . 


Rs. 


2 . 


p . 


AU India Juslim FfucationalConference : 


All India Muslim Euational Conference 

Intestments : 


Current Account . 
Reserve Fund 

. 

, 
Provident Fund . 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


1 ,067 2 
1 , 37 , 151 12 

5 ,111 I3 


0 
0 
0 


1, 43 -330 ILO 


1, 16 .620 O 

20 ,531 12 


o 
0 


Dury Society Account : 


1,35, 551 12 


0 1 


Rs. 1,71. 500 a 3º, Conversion lan 

1946 at cost . 
Rs. 21, 000 ( 14 loan 1960 - 70 at 
cost . . 

· 
All India Muslim Educational Coo 
Uference . . . . . 
| P . F . Investments : . 

Rs . 1 ,600 4 loan 1960 - 70 at cost 


THEGAZET IEorINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASTINI4,1881 


Duty Society 
Construction of Society Building , 
R . D . H , Account 


== 


23, 390 8 2 

8 ,600 00 
14 ,768 8 0 


0000 


6 . 759 


0 


2 


= 


5 , 537 


+ 


2 


= 


Karnal Hays : 

Current Account . . 
Karna Waqf Investment 


. 


. 
. 


1.Col2 0 


Kurnal WwfIntestment : 

Rs 1,00 ,000 @ tº loan 1955 -69 
Staff Securitier Inresimene : 


15,675 $ I 
1, 09 . 468 120 


= 


1.25 ,14 II 


= 


= 


Securiides : 


. 


= 


Staff Securities . . . 
Personal Deposits . 
Building Contractors security 
M , U . Cashier s Security . 


500 00 
13 , 509 Oo 
47 . 403 00 
695 80 62, 1080 


738 120 
2 .41 6 6 
144 13 6 


1 , 125 00 


Rs 750 @ 46 lun 1960 - 70 at cost 
Rs, 250 @ 3 . Conversion loan 1946 

Rs. 150 @ 3 . conversion loan 1946 
Deposit with Hydro Flectric Engineer 

Roorkee : 
Post Office Cash Certificate of Rs. 

2 , 840 & Rs. 2 , 500 


Rashid Ahmad s security 
Compounder s security 


. 


14 12 
158 12 


0 
0 


4 , 437 


4 


0 


(PARTII 


-- 


SFC.3(11)] 


---- 


Electric Deposit Security 
City High School BiH Security 
Horticulture Inspector s Sccurity 
Flour Mill Security : 
Security Deposit for Tib . College . 
Security of Zamir Hasan Naqvi . 
Security Deposit for coal 
Vendor s security deposit 
Fazal Abbas Abbasi Cashier s Secu 

rity - . . 


1, 760 130 

So oo 
500 0 
1, 000 00 
635 10 3 
50000 
250 00 
903 80 
500 DO 


General Reserte imestments : 

Rs. 550 G 40. 6 loan 1960 - - 0 at cast 541 3 u 
Rs. 5 , 300 C 3° , loan 1961 66 at 
cost 

5,091 14 0 
Rs. 25,000 @ 3 . L . P . loan 1961-66 
at cost . 

23, 963 # o 
Rs. 50,000 – 3 . G , P. Notes I963-65 
at cost , . 

44 ,111 7 8 
Rs. 1 ,00 ,000 @ 3 . 6 Victory loan 1957 1 ,00, 791 IO 8 
Rs. 25 , 000 @ 3° , G . P . notes 1963-65 
at cust . . . . 

24 ,159 13 8 
Rs. 25 ,000 3 " . G . P . Dutes 1963 
65 at cost . . 

24, 155 3 9 222 ,724 8 y 


6,273 7 3 


Electric Department : 


Electric Accessories . 
Electric Department Revenue Alc . 
Electric Department Deposit Aic . 
Provident Fund loan . 
Provident fund Account . 


38 ,516 4 4 
60 ,655 3 5 

5 IO O 
147 00 
IIO 


Afiscellaneous Accounts : 

Dr. Zakir Husain Fund 
Petty Cash Account . 
Exchange and Commission . . 

Blind School Revenue Account 
99,434 19 Salary paid in Advance 


2 , 325 II 

10 o 
208 2 
996 3 
48 13 


TJIEGAZETTEOHINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


o 
0 
6 
0 


3,588 13 9 


3 - 409 14 

377 4 


0 
3 


30 , 0 $ I I5 6 


Outstandings . 
Cash with State Bank , Muzaffarna 

gar 
Loan to MI. U . Fund Account 


15 ,675 5 
1 ,66 ,000 0 


I 
0 


12 , 105 40 
2 ,660 II I 


Club & Societies Account , 

Over draft Account . . 
Miscellaneous Accounts : 

Donation from members of Court . 
Advance on account . 
All India Economics Conference 

Account , . 
Federation Account 
Interest Account , 
Islamic History and Culture Fund 
Income Tax deducted on investment 


- 


- 
- 


61 4 0 

64 12 3 
90 , 193 I 10 

675 15 5 
447 3 0 


- 
- 
- 


1 ,06 , 208 


3 


7 


2539 


(16 ) M U . Deposit Account Conid . 
Balance Sheet as on 31 March ,1956 Concld . 


2540 


- - - 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


4. 


P . 


Rs. 


2. 


P . 


Rs. 


2 . 


P 


Indian Political Conference . 
Refund loan Account . 
Staff Club Account , 
M . Mubarak Hasan Account . 


Rs. 2 p . 

24 9 9 
2 ,855 10 2 
1,478 15 9 
4 ,714 9 


SOON 


( 9 ,073 12 


: 


THIEGAZETTEOFIND]4. 


Md. Amin Hostel Account 
N , C . C . Account 
Poor Student Fund 
Rent of Sarfaraz House 
Recovery of Goyt, money 


259 12 3 
1 , 137 100 
1 ,499 O IO 

438 8 0 
250 o 


( 3 , 584 15 


1 


O 


22 23 
54 , 826 8 

58 II 0 
294 60 
7461 08 


O 


00O 


62,662 12 


5 


Refugee students Account , 
Suspense Account 
Sir Salar Jung Scholarship . 
Scholarship for Arabic Students 
V , C . s Fund , . 
Tarwala Bungalow Mosque , 
K . B . S , Abdullah s 8oth Birth d 

Fund . . 
Library Deposit . 
Kashmir needy student fund . 
I. S . S . Fund . 
M . U . Industries Account . 
General Reserve 
Syed Husain Chairs Alc 
Syed Husain Fellowship A / c . 


IO I 6 
360 OO 

25 OO 
750 0 
2 ,108 12 


13,253 14 0 


PIEMBER20,193VASVINA4,1881 


1,720 00 

541 3 0 
16 ,331 15 0 
4 , 200 OO 


22,793 2 0 
1,875 OO 


1. S . I. Unit Aligarh Branch . 


TOTAL 


. 


. 


6 , 96 ,287 II 3 


TOTAL 


: 


6 ,96 ,287 II 


3 


-- 


- 


(Sd .) OBAIDUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Horsy . Treasurer , 
Muslim University Aligarh . 


[PARTII 


--- 


- 


(17 ) Abstract Revenue Account of the M . U . Fund 

For the year ended 31st Aførch , 1956 


Sec.3(ii)] 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. 


na . 


p 


Rs. 


2 . 


P . 


Rs. 


2 . 


P . 


Rs. 


2. 


f . 


(A ) Muslim University including Fa 

culties of Theology , Arts and 
Science Departments 


( A ) Muslim University including Fa 

culties of Theology, Arts and 
Science Departments : . 


26 ,37,964 2 


7 


29,45,322 60 


1 , 15 ,857 10 0 
36 ,274 19 
14 , 708 64 
30 , 182 II 0 
52, 145 5 
- 3 ,780 1 0 
2 , 13 ,214 66 
1 , 24 , 903 9 


69,049 7 
12 , 306 8 
6 ,706 IO 

1 ,471 6 
31 ,883 13 

117 8 
1 , 94485 I 
1 ,31 ,112 0 


- 


( B ) Other Departments : 

1. Medical Department 
2 . Conservancy Department 
3 . Property Department 
4 . Carden und Lands , 
5 . Agriculture Farm and Fort A /c . 
6 . M . U . Gazette Account 
7 . Examinatra Department . 

8 . Electricity Department , 
( C ) 2lied Instititions : 

College of Engg . and Techn 
Polytechnic Department . 

- lephone Secun , . 
7 . Abiya Coll . 
5 . U . Schooi . . 
6 . 1 , U . City High School . 
7 . I . U . City B1.1. - School 
8 . Women s College 
9 . M . U . Girls School . . 
IO . Ahmadi School for the Blind 
II . Institute of Ophthalmology 
12 . Addition and Alteration to Engin 

eering College . . 
13 . Institute of Islamic Studies 


3 ,99 , 585 9 10 
50 , 206 

4 , 926 
1, 88 , 842 15 
79 , 706 6 
66 , 386 0 

6 , 529 1 
1, 79 ,253 90 

48 , 564 8 6 

4 , 960 70 
1,24 ,374 9 9 

2,960 10 9 
41, 597 14 6 


bomoowononononot 


(B ) Other Departments : 

I. Medical Departments 
2 . Conservancy Department . 
3 . Property Department 
4 . Garden and Lands . 
5 . Agriculture Farm and Account 
6 . M . U . Gazette Account . 
7 . Examination Department 

8 . Electricity Department . 
(C ) Allied Institutions : 

1. College of Engg , and Technology 
2 . Polytechnic Department 
3 . Telephone Section . 
4 . Tibbiya College , . 
5 . M . U . School 
6 . M . U . City High School . 
7 . M . U . City Branch School . 
8 . Women s College 

9 . M . U . Girls School 
10 . Ahmadi School for the Blind 
II . Institute of Ophthalmology 
12 . Addition and alteration to Engg . 

College , 


90 ,320 II 
29,244 6 

1 ,330 0 
55,025 II 
40 ,866 IT 
38 ,425 5 

1 ,281 II 
45, 048 II 
34 , 728 II 0 

1, 173 8 0 
51,539 6 9 


Oncomocon OOoooaooowooowwH 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


85 Oo 


Net Deficit during the year 

TOTAL . 


6 ,45,400 II 9 
44,26 ,925 7 2 


44,27 , 925 7 2 


. 


TOTAL . 
(Sd). OBAIDUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Hory . Treasurer , 
Muslim University Aligarh , 


2541 


( 18 ! Muslim University Revenge Account ( Faculties of Arts, Science and Misc . Departments , 

For the year ended 31st Alarck 1956 


2542 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. 4 


p . 


Rs. a . D . 


Rs. 2 . P . 


Rs, 


a . 


p . 


I. Salaries : 
(a ) Teaching Staff . 
b ) Administrative Staff . 

) Ministerial Staif 
d ) Technical & Vocational Staff 


II , I1 ,237 0 

6 , 00 ,000 0 


0 
0 


7 , 85 ,314 IO O 

93 ,758 jo o 
1, 20 ,930 I 6 
93 ,289 14 6 
43,666 13 0 
55 , 351 3 0 
1 ,928 129 
5 ,716 8 O 11 , 99 . 956 


1. Grant- in -aid : 
(1) Central Govt. 

I. Block Grant 
2 . Central Govt. Adhoc Grant 
3 . U . G . C . Grant to meet the Defi 

cit . . . . 
(1 ) U . P . Gori, Grant : 

1 . General 
2. B . Ed. Stipends . . 


5, 50, 000 OO 22 ,61,237 0 0 


( ei Subordinate Staff 
(f) Temporary Staff in leave vacancy 
( g ) Temporary Staff in Balance sheet 
(h ) Salaries Uny. Chokidars . 


8 


9 


65 , 100 00 
4 ,000 OO 68 ,400 OO 


THEG.VZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINI4,1881 


II. Deamess Allowance i 
III. Provident Fund . 
IV . Gratuities . 

V . General T . A . 
VI. T . A to E . C . members . 
VII. Allowances 


( ii) States : 

I . Rampur Grant 
2 . Sir Salar Jung Estate Grant 


6 ,000 
1 ,187 


0 
I 


0 
0 


7 , 187 


I 


2 ,60 , ISO 90 
61, 560 3 

1, 080 0 0 
28 ,089 15 3 
3 ,202 I O 
7,680 10 9 3 ,617 ,63 7 6 


0 


2 . Interest on Investments : 

1. Permanent Endowments . 
2 . Permanent Reserve Funds 
3 . Special Floating Reserve Funds 


89,887 80 
59, 650 00 
12 , 196 0 


1, 61,733 12 


0 


= 


Other Expenses : 
A . University Main Deptts . 
( Faculty of Arts , Science and Central 

Offices ) 
I . Contingencies 

Deptt, of English , , , 


3 .I 


, 


fs and Enormers : 
I. Karnal Waqf . . 


. 


2,000 OO 


2 ,000 001 


Department of History , 
Department of Political Science 


100 0 0 
148 5 3 
101 126 


4 . Royalties : 

M . U . Press 


MOQ 


2 ,416 SO 


2 ,416 So 


= 


Department of Philosophy 
Department of Economics 
Department of Commerce 


150 00 
100 00 
45 3 3 


, 
. 


= 


5 . Fees from Students : 

I , Tuition Fee : 
(1) Faculty of Theology, Arts and Sci 
ence . . . . . . 


[PART1 


1, 75 ,320 x 


9 


S 


(ii) 


» » (Outstanding) 

. (Enhanced ) , 
(ip ) Admission fee . 
(V ) Transfer Certificate Fee 

(ví) Business Training Class Fee 
960 99 

6 . Rents: 


45 ,636 0 3 
38, 325 OO 
· 11 , 719 00 
4, 250 80 
672 80 2 ,96 ,933 12 O 


Department of Arabic . . 

18 15 9 
Department of Persian , , , 

50 0 0 
Department of Urdu 

5000 
Department of Sanskrit & Hindi . 

50 OO 
Department of Law ( including water 
charges ) . . . . 

146 50 
Department of Education ( including offices) 627 7 9 
Department ofMathematics 

150 00 
Department of Military Science 

19 120 
Business Training Classes 

174 90 
Vice Chancellor s Office 

1 . 743 
PVC s Office 

803 60 


SEC.8 (11)] 


I. Boarding House 

36 , 996 90 
2 . Residential Quarters and Bungalows 

50 ,517 30 
3 . Electric fittings in Residential Quarters 

2 ,273 100 
4 . Society Garden Quarters , 

275 00 
5 . Svxiety Garden Buikldings 

660 00 


Registrar s Office , 


. 


25 ,328 II 3 


99 ,722 60 


Central Accounts Ofice 


. 


. 


3 ,464 II 6 


6 . Shops and Stalls 


287 00 


287 00 


Boarding House Accounts Office 
Steward s Office . . 


, 


1, 765 70 
238 80 


34 .450 13 


3 


7 . Contributions: 

1. Medical College (Acculint Keepingi 


2 ,000 


0 


0 


Dean s Offices : 

I. Faculty of Theology . 


2 . Medical College for I 2 Expenses of 

Organising Secretary 
(Medical Department) 

. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


. 


50 Oo 


5,074 O o 


7 ,074 


0 


0 


3 . Collection Churges ; 

( i) P . and S . Unani Dayakhana . 
( ii ) Staff Club 
( iii ) Old Boys Assoication : 
(iv ) Work Charge Establishment , 


25 Oo 
300 00 

50 0 0 
32,010 I20 


32, 385 120 


2 . Faculty of Arts . 
3 . Faculty of Science 
Proctor s Office 
Proctorial Deptt. (Senios Proctorial 

Monitor ) . . . . 
Lytton Library . 
Information Office 
Office of the Building Deptt. 
Nazim Diniyat Shia 
Nazim Diniyat Sunni . . 


396 II 3 
172 12 0 
337 II 0 

98 110 
2 , 255 15 

236 50 
1,029 69 

91 96 
177 13 0 


- 


- 


8 . Fines : 
I: Late payment of Fees , Class Discip 

line 
2. Library Fines . . 


- 


5 ,146 14 


6 


245 14 0 
745 8 0 


991 60 


2 . Lab : Running Expenses : 
Psychological Lab . . . 


. 


. 


1,019 6 


6 


2543 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


( 18 ) M . U . Revenue Account ( Faculties of Arts, Sc. & Misc . Deptt.) ( Conid .) 


2544- 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs, a . 


. 


Rs. a . p . 


Rs. 2 


p . 


Rs. a 


p . 


Physical Lab . 
Chemical Lab . 
Bio - Chemical Lab , 
Zoological Lab . . 
Botanical Lab . . 
Statistical Lab . . 
(Mathematics Deprt.) 
Geographical Lab . . 
Geological Lab . . 


8 ,953 13 9 
39, 902 12 9 

1, 574 50 
7 ,655 0 
6 ,842 3 


Other Afiscelliteous Income : 
( a ) Cost of Lost Books . 
(b ) Vendors Licence Fee 
(ci Cost of Identity Cards 
( d ) Miscellaneous , . 


415 100 
1, 000 0 0 

278 0 
10 ,370 2 6 


11 ,813 


+ 


6 


202 00 
649 14 3 
2 ,036 14 6 


· Income an account of interest realised 
against loan or Rs. 5 , 000 - advanced to 
Medical Department. 


68, 836 6 6 


325 00 


325 Oo 


3 . Othey General Miscellanemis : 


Add : Income by refund against previ 
ous year s expenditure under the head 
" Help to needy and poor students ” 
(Adjustment) 


1,825 II 6 


1,835 II 6 


Field work for Cosmic Rays 
Hand work material (Education De 

partment . 
Perishables ( Education Department) 
Physical Workshop Expenses . 
Herbarium and Musium . 
Specimen Geology Department 
Glassware & Chemicals (Geology De 

partment) . . . . . 


11, 926 8 3 

201 4 0 

77 I 9 
998 10 3 


GAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


13 ,203 8 


3 


410 12 
1, 111 8 


0 
0 


886 70 


2 , 438 II 0 


Exhibition expenses (Proctorial Depart 

ment ) . 
Badge (Proctorial Department) . 
Annual Function and Photo Proctoria ! 

Department) 
Watering changes (Mosque ) . 
Repairs to Water Cooler 
Watering charges ( C . O .) . 
Ramzan Expenses (Sunni Sec.) . 
Ramzan Expenses (Shia Sec . ) , 


200 Oo 

97 30 
111 8 0 
105 12 9 

75 80 
347 1 9 
328 99 
99 130 


[PARTII 


Cemcury Expcises 
Entertainment Expenses . 
Liveries (General ) 
Extensing Lecture 


55 to 9 
7 ,663 6 9 
9 ,431 39 
1,818 8 0 


SEC.3(ii)] 


20 , 364 


Excursions : 
I . Department of Commerce , . 
2 . Department of Law . 
3 . Department of Philosophy 
4 . Department of Zoology 
5 . Department of Botany 
6 . Department ofGeography ( Field 

Survey ) . . 
7 . Department of Geology . . 


300 0 0 
200 00 
100 00 
2 , 000 00 
857 70 


1 ,200 2 3 
2 , 190 70 


6 ,848 


: 


1,334 100 


Rent of Conf. Hall with Electricity . 
Electric charges Lecture rooms and 

ofices , 
Electric Charges (V . C . s House ) 
Telephone rents 
Improvement of Uny. Lands . 
Fire Insurance Premiums (Library and 

Science Labs.) , 
Interest on logos 


32 , 875 96 

467 70 
2 ,518 00 
1,822 J20 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


873 12 0 
8 ,676 14 0 


48 , 569 0 


0 


Exchange and Commission 
V . C . s Car (Petrol and Mobil Oil 
University Car expenses 
V .Gi s car (Registration and Insurance 

tyres etc . ) 
Station Wagon Expenses . 
Unforeseen Expenses , 


240 90 
1 ,371 IO 6 
1,697 149 
1, 798 II O 

957 5 3 
84,992 15 9 


17 ,62 ,538 5 2 


2545 


( 18 ) M , U . Revenue Account (Faculties of Arts , Sc . & Misc. Deptt.) - (Cenid .) 


2546 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. a . p . 


Rs. a . I 


Rs, 


a. 


p . 


93 ,908 5 3 


Rs. 2. p . 
Cataloguing Accessorics , 

1, 578 OO 
Sir Syed Day Expenses . 

434 20 
University Art Gallery and Museum 

650 00 
Night Watch Expenses (Proctorial 
Deptt . ) 

187 I 
4. Printing aint Binding Charges : 
Deptt. of Education 

238 79 
Registrar s Office 

15, 916 8 3 
Central Account Office ( Including Ac 
counts Register ) . 

2 ,895 15 
B . H . Accounts Office (including A 
counts Register) 

1,471 10 
Dean s Office (Arts ) 

786 8 9 
Dean s Office Science ) . 

. 876 11 
Budget and Audit Reports 

2 ,258 7 
Lytton Library Binding 

4 ,019 12 
Printing and Hand Lists of new addi 
tions (Library ) 

200 70 
Binding of MSS (Library ) 

1 ,511 00 
Binding of books and journals (Lav 
Deptt.) . . 

300 OO 
5 . Publication and deertisements : 

Advertisement charges . , , 9 ,497 40 
6 : Repairs of Buildings, Routs , and 

Typeusriters : 
Annual repairs of Buildings . , 22 , 743 100 
Petty Works . 

779 15 9 
Repairs of Roads 

8 ,603 00 
Repairs of Cycles Proctorial Depart - 
ment) . . 

271 20 
Repairs of Typewriters Procturial Deptt, 49 00 


ooooooww 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA1,1881 


39 .972 II 6 


32 , 416 11 


4 


[PARTII 


Rs. 2 . D. 


RS, a. p. 


Rs. 1 p . 


Rs. 


p . 


Sec.8.(li)] 


7 . Depreciation : 
1. On Building . 
a . Lecture Rooms and Offices 
b . Residential Quarters 

c. Overhead lines 
2 . On Motor Pumps etc . . 
3 . On apparatus and Appliances 
4 . On Furniture & Equipment . 
5 . On Motor Car and Station Wagon 
6 . On Typewriters and Duplicate Ma 

chine . 
7 . On Cycles 
8 . Purchase of Books : 
Books for Pupil Teachers (Education , 

Deptt ) 
Books, Journals and Periodicals (Uny.) 


74 , 241 0 
6 ,856 oo 
2 ,938 OO 
3 ,000 0 0 
1 , 440 0 
20 ,000 0 0 
33 ,431 
4 ,232 00 


2 , 591 00 
565 00 1, 49 ,294 0 0 


295 8 6 
60 , 326 8 0 


60 , 622 OO 


Apparatus, Haps & Charts : 

I . Deptt. of Education , 
2 . Deptt . of Geology - 


756 12 9 
17 . oo 


927 129 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


9. Maintenance Grants, Subscriptions 

and Contributions: 
A Afaintenance Grants 
1. Riding School . . . 
2 . National Cadet Corps 


3 , 000 0 0 
1 , 50000 


4 ,500 cc 


B , Subscription 
1. Inter University Board 
2 . Indian Institute of Internal Affairs, 


1 , 000 00 
100 00 


1 , 100 


o 


C . Contribucions 
1. Indian Councils of World Affairs 
2 . Aftab Hall , 
3 . Armoury . 


3. Armoury 


: 


: 


: 


: 


2 ,500 00 
504 00 
492 00 
324 Oo 


2547 


(18 ) M . U . Revente Account (Faculties of Arts , Sc. and Misc. Deptts . 


(Contd .) 


2548 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. 


2 


p . 


Rs . 


& 


P . 


Rs. 


a . p . 


. 


5 . V . C . s House Rent 
6 . Guest House . 
7 . Staff Chub 


. 
. 


Rs. 2 . p . 
1,716 00 

799 4 0 
1 ,404 00 


79739 OO 


1 , 965 00 

240 00 
4 , 120 00 
14 ,690 00 
8,471 II 9 


21,015 0 0 
8,471 II 9 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


5 ,561 14 6 


5 ,561 14 


6 


1, 04 ,999 13 0 


IO . Scholarships , Prizes and Miedals ; 
I, Out of Revenue 

(@ ) Islamic Studies 
( b ) Sanskrit . 
(c) B . Ed . Stipends 

(d ) Studentships . . . 
Out of general savings 
Expenditure incurred during the year 

1953- 54 under the head Islamic 

Studies but not closed with Reve 
Expenditure against excess credits of 

previous years in Revenue Acc 

ount , 
1. University main Departments 

( Faculty of Arts, Science , Theology 

and offices ) 
I . Purchase of apparatus and appliances 

Dept . of Philosophy . 
Deptt, of Education . 
Deptt, of Physics 
Deptt. of Geography 
Deptt. of Geology 
Microscope Deptt, of Geology ) 

Platinumwares (Deptt. of Geology ) 
2 . PUTchase of Alaps, Charts , Books 

and Periodicals 
Maps and Charts 
Deptt. of Geography , 
Books and Periodicals Lytton Lin 

rary ) . . . . . 


1,04 ,999 13 O 


4 ,851 10 
2 , 207 10 
41, 128 2 
3 ,212 13 
5 , 377 [I 6 
3 ,732 20 
1,491 00 


62,001 IO 


1,433 120 
8 , 557 14 0 


[PartII 


9 ,991 IO 


O 


Rs. 


2. p . 


Rs. 


2. . 


Rs . 


p . 


Rs. 


2 . 


p . 


Sec.3(ii)] 


3 . Hurrature and equipments 

Shia Theology . 
Deptt, of English . 
Deptt. of History . 
Dept. of Pol. Science . 
Deptt. of Philosophy 
Deptt. of Economics . 
Deptt . of Arabic . . 
Deptt. of Commerce . 
Deptt , of Persian , 


148 12 0 
5 ,065 
1 , 274 0 
1, 000 

881 
594 
195 I 9 
500 oo 
386 70 


000000000 


10,045 S 


2 : 5 6 
2 , 205 8 

726 12 
2 , 399 


ܘܝܝܘ 


Dept . of Hindi & Sanskrit . 
Deptt . of Education , 
Deptt. of Law . 
Deptt, of Physics 
Deptt. of Botany 
Deptt. of Chemistry . 
Deptt . of Mathematics 
Deptt. of Zoology 
Deptt. of Geography 


naco 


706 


3 , 193 13 9 
1 ,535 14 9 
1 ,299 80 
570 II 


ܗܩܩܘܚ 


12 ,853 14 9 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


Deptt. of Geology 
PY. C s Office 
Central Accounts office 
Registrar s Office 
Steward s Office . . 
Property Department . 
Lytton Library . 
Thealogy Dean s Office 
Nazim Diniyat Shia . 
Arts Dean s Office . 
Nazim Diniyat Sunni . 
Building Department . 
University Guest House 
Engg . College Mosque 


1 , 509 14 
· 634 6 

921 II 
4 , 902 10 
2 ,782 10 

500 10 
1407 

75 

15 6 
485 
547 5 
349 0 
2600 


Oooohnowak WOOOWOO0Ovaao 


85 15 


14 ,477 15 


3 


2549 


( 18 ) M . U . Revenue Account ( Faculties of Arts , Sc . and Miss. Deptt . ) (Conid .) 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. 


a . p . 


Rs. 


2 . p . 


Rs. 


2 p . 


Rs. 


. p . 


90000 
429 99 
1,383 15 


2, 713 


9 


3 


4. Purchase of Typexoriters, Duplicators 

and Cydes . 
(a )_ Typewriters and Duplicators 

Economic Deptt . 
Law Deptt. . 
Registrar s Office 
Chemistry Deptt. 
Treasurer s Office 
Sanskrit & Hindi Deptt. 
Mathematics Deptt . . 
V . C . s Office . . 
Geology Deptt. . . 
(6 ) Cycles 

Proctorial Deptt. 
B . H . Accounts Office . 
Treasurer s Office 
Building Deptt . , - 
Registrar s Office 


1 , 103 15 9 
1 , 326 66 

899 13 6 
1 , 007 8 0 
899 13 6 
875 00 


6 , 112 


9 


3 


2550THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


476 5 0 
248 50 
224 3 8 
163 8 
224 3 


JOO0000 


1, 336 


8 


0 


5 . Printing , Binding and Publications 

Prioting of ner Calendar (Regis 

trar s Office) . 
Publication of Monograph (English ) 
Publication books (Arabic ) . . 
Publication of books (Urdu ) . . 
Publication of Hindi Monograph . 
Publication of books (Physics De 

partment) 
Publications of periodicals (Mathe 

matics Deptt.) 
Binding of old Accounts Registers 

( Treasurer s Office ) . 
Publication ofMonograph (Zoology 
Deptt.) . . . 

. 


374 60 
394 4 0 
989 00 
491 13 6 
299 il 6 
750 OO 


3,299 30 


Tent 


. 


500 OO 

140 00 
2 ,587 II 0 


[PARTII 


Rs. 2. p. 


R3. 


2. p . 


Rs. 


4. p. 


Rs. 


a. D. 


GI 


SEC.3(ii)] 


Binding of printed Urdu and Per 

sian books (Library ) . . 
Printing of MSS Descriptive Cata 

logue (Library ) 
Printing of Inaugural Addresses 

Library ) . . . . 


845 4 0 
79 DO 
463 14 O 


- 


- 


4 ,615 13 


0 


-- 


6 . Electric Installation Accessories : 


Deptt . ofGeography ( Ceiling Fans) 
University Guest House 
History Deptt. . . 
Philosophy Department 
Economics Deptt. . 
Department of Law 
Department of Chemistry . . 
Hindi and Sanskrit Deptt. . 


434 14 

194 4 
1 ,445 96 
294 10 
550 0 
95 00 


moooooo 
! 


1, 221 4 


4 ,235 10 


3 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


740 90 
224 14 0 
85 14 9 


OOO 


Deptt . of Botany . . . 
Shia Nazim Section . 
Extension of Service Lines 
Ceiling Fans and Flourescent lights 

in Library and lecture Rooms 

(Economics Deptt.) . . 
Flourescent tube Mathematics 

Deptt .) . 
Installation of 2 Ceiling fans (Build 

ing Deptt.) . 
Residential Quarters . 
Lytton Library . . 
Elec , Accessories for lecture rooms, 

Offices and Quarters . 
Repairs and maintenance of Pump 

ing Sets . . 


1,498 12 3 
205 OO 
487 99 
638 13 6 
696 14 3 
1,370 10 9 
1 , 296 20 


7 


, 245 


4 


3 


2551 


(18) M . R . Revenue Account (Faculties of Arts, Sc. and Misc Departments ) (Conid.) 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. 


2. p. 


Rs. 


4. p. 


Rs. 


2. p . 


Rs. 


2 . p . 


7. General and Other Misc . Expenses : 


2,851 100 
1,099 120 
3,990 00 
1,750 OO 


9 ,691 60 


Cyclostyling of Synopses Bibliogra 

phies (Deptt. of Arts) 
Cyclostyled composition under gra 

duate classes ( English Deptt .) . 
Symposium Expenses Physics 

Deptt.) 
Testing , Cleaning of Gas and Water 

Pump Line ( Chem . Deptt ) . . 
Statistical Training (Economics De 

ptt .) , 
Court Expenses including Sirohi 

Waqf and Rusi Mistri s case 
Gas Water fittings for newly built 

laboratories (Botany) . 
Survey instruments (Geog .Deptt. ) . 
Repairs of old instruments (Geog . 
Cataloguing and indexing of Semi 

Bar Library . 
Mounting and Binding of Maps 

(Geology Deptt .) . 
Free Foreign Scholars . . 
Leave salary contribution to Dr. A . 
Pension contribution to Dr. A . Haq 


2552THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER28,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


1,992 12 6 
1 ,605 4 0 
2 ,486 10 6 

960 OO 
2,299 8 0 

489 OO 
296 10 6 
2 ,844 20 


10,973 15 6 


Hag 


1, 197 14 0 


Purchase of Law Reports . 
Developments of University grounds 

and other lands . . 


403 14 0 
794 0 0 

242 14 0 
24 , 596 15 0 


24 ,739 13 O 


[PARTII 


Rs. 


2. p . 


Rs. 


2. p. 


Rs 


a. D . 


Rs. 


8. D . 


SEC.3.(li)] 


Repayments of Govt. loan to Rs. 

1 , 10 ,000 . . . . 
Polishing and repair of furniture 

Economics Deptt ) . 
Remuneration to Editors for pre 

paration of Persian Text books 
Persian Depth ) . . . 


3,333 5 4 

266 OO 


2 , 100 OO 


5, 699 


5 


4 


Repairs of typewriters (Commerce 

Departmeat) . 
Purchase of Crockery (Property De 

partment ) 
Fummigation vault for MSS (Lib 

rary ) . . . 
2 . Building Department : 


375 00 
439 129 
350 OO 


1,164 12 9 


A Construction of Buildings etc . 
Hand Pumps and Water Pipes Line 

Residential Quarters ) . . 
New Roads . 
Glass House with temperature and air 

conditioning a part of Glass House 


861 50 
691 12 0 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


4 ,232 6 0 


5, 785 70 


3 ,307 13 


0 


Sanitary improvements , . 
Laying of roof in common room of 

Sabib Bagh main Building (S . S . 
Engineering Hall ) . . 


3,846 80 


7, 154 


$ 


0 


Conversion of a room into bath room 

(Urdu Department) . 
Installation of sanitary fittings in the 

existing Bath Room 
Rehablitation of M . U . City Branch 

School (Qazi Para , Aligarh ) . 


875 70 
1, 309 8 0 
1,456 FOO 


3,641 9 0 


2552 


( 18 ) M .U . Revenue Account (Facalties of Arts Science and Misc. Deptts).- (Contd .) 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. 


2 . p . 


Rs. 


. . 


. 


Rs. 


2 . p . 


Rs. 


2. p . 


398 00 

193 12 0 
2 ,319 OO 
38000 


883 13 


O 


4, 174 QC 


2554.THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


7,222 11 0 
1, 984 4 0 


9 ,206 15 


Construction of a partition wall in the 

office of Shia Theology 
Construction of an Irrigation tank for 
Barbed Wire fencing around Science 

Blocks . 
Purchase of tools and plants for Build 

ing Department . . . . 
Construction of iron wall racks (Central 

Accounts Office ) . . . . 
Modernisation of road within Uni 

versity Compound 
Addition and Alteration in the M .U . 

Hospital . . . . . 
Sanitary fittings in No. 3 University 
Construction of a kitchen in No. 2 

University Road . 
Renovation of Vilayat Manzil . 
Additions and Alterations to No. 4 

University Road . 
Additions and Alteration to Willingdon 

Pavalion . . . . . 
1. Faculty of Science : 
Electricity installation in the new 

Mycology Annexe . 
Sanitary installations in the existing 

bath room (Botany Department) . 
Laying of water supply and ges fittings 

forGeology Department . 
Installations of sanitary fittings in the 

bath room (Picture Gallery) . . 


o 


Road . . 


1, 265 IO 


2 , 345 

183 


0 
8 


0 
0 


11 , 148 14 0 
1,543 OO 


16 ,485 


7 


0 


- 


1,470 O o 
1,849 2 0 
1,257 0 0 
1,260 80 


[PARTII 


Rs. 


2 p . 


RS. 


. p . 


RS 


p. 


Rs. 


2 p. if 


Sec.3(11)] 


1, 170 IO 


Provision of fuming chambers and a 

room in the Bio -Chemistry Sec . . 
Sanitary fitting in existing bath room 

Zoology Department . 
Construction of a culvert at the 

approach to a garage at the Physics 
Department . . . 


2 ,117 15 0 


521 60 


9,646 OO 


2 . Faadty of Engineering : 
Construction of a shed and laying of 

foundation for the installation of 
Hydraulic Lift in Engineering Work 
shop . 


2 ,399 5 


6 


2,399 5 6 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1969/ASVINA4,1881 


1,700 


0 


0 


3. Fuauty of Arts : 
Providing a bath room for staff with 

sanitary fittings (History Depart 

ment) 
Providing sky lights in the eastern and 

Western Upper galleries of Nizam 

Museum . . . . . 
Construction of room of Asbestos 

ament double roofing for History 

Department 
Extension of first floor in S . M . East 

for providing additional accommo 

dation for class rooms . . . 
Sanitary installation in the existing 

latrines for Geography, English 

and Hindi Departments , 
Additions Alteration work in Hindi 

and Sanskrit Department . . 


538 130 


1,286 100 


25 ,095 III) 


2 ,100 40 


837 10 


O 


2555 


(18) MU. Revenue Account (Faculties of Arts, Sc. and Misc. Department ) ( Contd.) 


2556 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


INCOME 


Rs. 


2 . p . 


Rs. 


2. p . 


Rs, ap. 


Rs. 2 . p . 


Renopation of Zahoor Ward Building 

for Housing the Institute of Islamic 
Studies . . . . 


296 OO 21 .855 CO 


4 . Faculty of Medicines : 


Construction of latrine with sanitary 

fittings for UnaniDawakahana 
Minor additions and alterations to 

Unani Dawakhana . . , 


29 OO 


1, 988 40 


2 


,017 4 


0 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


453 


8 


0 


453 


8 


Schools and Colleges: 

I. M . U . High School (Minto Circle) . 
Construction of an irrigation syphone 

in Minto Circle - . 
2 . 11. U . City High School : 
Construction of a room for Tailoring 

class . . . . . . 
. 3. Blind School: 

Construction of a boundary wall at 
Blind School . . . 

. 


0 


1, 954 IO 


O 


4 , 112 50 


6 


, 066 15 


0 


Women s College: 
Construction of a verandah in Teacher s 

Residential Quarters . . , 


558 


8 


0 


558 


8 


0 


[PARTII 


Afiscellaneous : 


Rs. 


4. p. 


Rs. 


4 


p. 


Rs. 


4 


. 


Rs. 


2 . p . 


Sec.3(11)] 


1,599 OO 


3, 440 30 


Reconstruction of Grave yard Boun 

dary wall . . . . . 
Insallation of Sanitary fittings in room 

No . 9 University Road . . . 
Construction of irrigation chandel in 

the University campus . . . 
Converting existing gate into a room 

and providing a new entrance of 

Morrison Court . . . . 
Renovation of a room for use as 

isolation cubical and clinical labo 
ratories . . . . . 


3,685 II O 


1,067 


4 


0 


2 , 378 


I 


0 


12 ,170 


3 


O 


8 ,500 OO 
307 80 


Administrative Offices : 
Distempering of Strachey Hall . 
Sanitary fittings in the Council Bath 

Room . . . . 
Urinal ard wash basins in the offiees 

of Proctor and Dean , Faculty of 

Arts with Sanitary fittings . . 
Laying of pucca floor in the court yard 

of Baitus Salat , . . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1969/ASVINA4,18812557 


1, 113 00 


499 SO 


10 ,419 13 O 


853 150 


. 


Residential Qruarters : . 
Sanitary installations at No. 7 Uni 

versity Road . . . : 
Sanitary installation at No. 8 , Shibli 

Road ( Two sets ) . . 
Construction of Indian type latrines 

in the old English House . . 


1,680 OO 


- 607 130 


3, 141 12 0 


H 


(18) M .U .Revenge Account (Faculties of Arts, Ša, and Misc. Deptts .)– (Cond.) 


2558 


E 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. 


2 p . 


Rs. 


2, p . 


Rs. 


2. p. 


Rs. 


2 . p . 


Minor improvement to the residential 
- houses with rental value of Rs. 30 
and less . . . . . 


2,972 II O 


2 ,972 II 


0 


= 


4 , 194 20 


4 


, 194 


2 


O 


Aftab Hall : 
Construction of a new room building 
Aftab Hall . . 

: 
Sir Syed Hall : 
Distempering of Common room and 

provision of sun shades of S . S . 

Hall . 
Brick aprun 4 wide alround S. M . 

East Hostel S . S . Hall . . . 
V . M . Hall : 
Supplying and erecting over - head 
water tank for the kitchen of Nas 
rullah hostel and laying of supply 

lines etc. . 
Completion of a woking range at the 

kitchen Nasrullah Hostel . . 


1,859 60 
1,075 0 0 


2 , 934 


6 


0 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


. 
- 


1,422 6 0 

921 8 0 
- - - - - - 


2 ,343 14 


0 


- 


Additions and Alterations : 

Residential Buildings 
Non - residential buildings 


8 ,866 90 
5 , 981 II 0 14 , 848 40 

- - - - - - - - - - 
26 , 34 ,630 13 3 

+ 3 , 333 5 4 
3 ,07,358 3 5 

- - - - - - - 
29,45,322 6 0 


Surplus during the year . 


- 


- - 


- - - - - - 


- 


TOTAL 


, 


. 


. 


TOTAL 


. 


. 


. 


(Sd.) OBADDUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Hony. Treasurer , 
Muslim University , Aligarh , 


[PartII 


(19) Medical Department Revenue Account 

For the year ended on 31 - 3 - 1956 


SEC.3(ii)] 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. 


2 . 


p . 


Rs. 


4 


p . 


Rs. 


2. p. 


Rs. 


4. p. 


Medical Drug Store 

Income from the sale of Medicines . 
Medical Department 
( Fees from students) 


24,430 09 


24 ,430 09 


. 


995 12 6 
1,765 10 3 

62 I 0 
2 ,064 I 6 

58 23 
45 6 0 
15 3 


4, 945 11 


6 


1 . University and Engg . College 
2 . MU . School , 
3 . Non Resident Centre . 
4 . Medical Examination Fee . 
5 . Health Programme Fee 
6 . Women s College and Hell 
Deficit during the year . 


21, 373 40 
1 ,428 10 4 
5 , 358 8 0 
2,281 8 0 
8 , 185 00 
5 , 952 8 0 


owa 


44 ,619 
46 ,808 


5 4 
2 11 


220 


Untersity Health Sertrice 
I. Medical Departmit 
1. House concession to ampounders 

and Nurses 
2 . Contingeacies and Printing , 
3 . Electricity Concession to quali 

fied Nurses . 
4 Electric Charges 
5 . Water Supply 
Hot Weather Expenses 
Repairs of Furniture 
Uniform and Dhobi Allowance 

Nursing Staff . 
Consultation Fee . 
Pathology Examination 
Hospital Equipment . 
Purchase of Medicines . 
Medical Examination . 
X - Ray Examination . 
Health Education . 
Anti -Malaria Expenses 
Medical Comfort 
Special Diet for Patients 
Telephone Charges 
Mass Miniature Radiography 
2 . Drug Store 

1. Stationery and Printing . 
2 . Contingencies 
3 . Overhead Charges . 
4 . Local Purchase of Medicine 

5 . Purchase of Medicine 
University Health Service Medical De 

partment 
Dispensing Counter 
Purchase of furniture - 


105 O 
206 8 

635 0 
13 ,690 3 

960 59 
712 0 

395 
2 ,652 10 
864 IO 9 

76 12 9 
357 IC 
402 13 0 


ܘܘܘܘܘvܘܚܚܩ 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA+,1881 


15 , 877 99 


5 ,461 14 0 


172 2 

42 9 6 
319 10 3 

184 50 
24 , 945 10 3 


25 ,664 50 


552 00 
432 II 0 


er 25ur 

9 


(19 ) Medical Department Revenue Acconat (Contd.) 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. 


4 


p. 


Rs. 


4. D . 


Rs. 


4. p . 


Rs. 2. P . 

200 IO 3 

205 9 9 
1, 325 10 3 


00 


2, 716 


9 


3 


Poison Almirah . . 
Card Index Cabinet 
Medicine Cub - board 
Salaries 
Ministerial Staff 

Tech . and Voc. Staff (Medical) . 
Tech , and Voc . Staff (Drug Store ) 

Subordinate Staff 
Dearness Allowance 

(a ) Medical , 
( b ) Drug Stores 
Allowance 
Provident Fund 


2 ,097 90 
35 ,800 I5 6 
2 ,478 136 
2 ,375 50 


42 ,752 II 0 


13, 059 30 

980 0 0 
2 , 101 136 
2 , 297 13 0 


14 ,039 30 
4 , 399 100 


2560THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


TOTAL 


1, 15,857 10 


O 


TOTAL 


1, 15 ,857 10 


O 


(Sd.) OBAIDUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Hony . Treasurer , 
Muslim University , Aligarh . 


[PARTII 


(10 ) Conservancy Departoient Revenue Account 

For the year ended 315 March , 1956 


Sec 
. 
3 
( 
ii 
) 
] 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. 


2 . 


p . 


Rs. 


a . p . 


Rs. 


4 . p . 


Rs. a . p . 

234 1 6 
499 126 


1, 580 IO 
390 7 6 


1,970 


8 


6 


Contingencies 
Maintenance of carts . . 
Disinfactants Poisions etc. . 
Cleaning of Wells , 
Slaughter House expenses 


177 13 9 
10000 
460 30 
200 OO 


1,471 14 9 
200 OO 


Sanitary Tax from Residential quar 

ters 
Income from Slaughter House 
Contribution : 

S . S . Hall . 
V . M . Hall . . . . . 
Aftab Hall . . 
Sir Sulaiman Hall 
T . College . 
M . U . School 


3 ,000 0 0 
1 ,200 OO 
3 ,000 OO 


Purchase of dust bins 


Solaries : 
Technical Staff . 
Subordinate Staff 


. 
. 


1200 Oo 

500 0 0 
1 ,436 00 


1 , 577 II O 
16 , 111 70 


. 


10 , 336 00 


Dearness Allowances . 
Allowances 


16 ,873 1 0 

40 00 


THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
: 
SEPTEMBER 
26 
, 
1959 
/ 
ASVINA 
1 
, 
1881 


34 ,602 30 


Deficit during the year 


23,967 9 3 


Total 


. 


36 ,274 


1 


9 


Total . 


36 ,274 19 


(SL.) OBAIDUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Hory . Treasurer 
Muslim University , Aligarh , 


2561 


(11) Property Department Revenue Account 

For the year, anded 31st March , 1956 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. 


2. p. 


Rs. a . 


p . 


Contingencies 
Temporary Labour 
Repairs of furniture , 
Court expenses . 
Land Revenue . 
Washing charges 


Rs. 4. p. 
786 II 9 

66 36 
1 ,028 13 0 
4 ,98606 
2 ,288 15 7 
314 9 6 


ON 


Hira of furniture and crockery 
Sale of Grass 
Sale of Wood , 
Miscellaneous 
Washing Charges 
Rent of Agriculture land 


Rs. a. p . 
565 IO 3 
365 00 
2 , 767 15 
6394 

37 50 
1,500 OO 
231 8 0 


9 ,471 5 


4 


Salaries : 


Lease of land 99 years . 


. 


6 , 706 10 


8 


. 
. 
. 


Deficit during the year 


. 


2562THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


. 


Ministerial Staff . 
Subordinate Staff . 
Dearness Allowance . 
Provident Fund 


8 ,001 12 


1 


2,755 OO 

578 2 0 
1,83000 

73 15 0 


. 


5, 237 10 


Total 


14 , 708 6 


4 


Total 


14 ,708 64 


(Sd.) OBADUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Hony . Treasures 
Muslim University, Aligarti, 


e = 


[ParsII 


(22 ) Gardens and Lands Repenge Account 

Balance Sheer as on 31st March , 1956 


-Sec.3(ti)] 


- 


- 


- 


- 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


- 


- 


- 


Rs. 


2. P. 


Rs. 


2. p . 


Rs. 


2 . p . 


Rs. 


a. p . 


Salaries : 


Gardens und Lands 


Central Zone Gardens 

(i) Orchard . 
(11 ) Vegetable and other Products 
(111) Sale of grass and fiorers 
(iv ) Sale of Plants . 
(v ) Bhusha,Gram Fodder & Karab 


620 00 

41 40 
540 2 3 
86 0 0 
184 0 


16 ,507 


3 


O 


1,471 6 


3 


Deficit during the year . 


. 


. 


28 , 711 


4 


9 


anonowoo.. 


223 6 
108 13 


Tech . & Voc : Staff . . . . 4 , 781 13 0 
Subordinate Staff (Main ) . 

573 8 0 
Subordinate Staff (Other Gardens) 2 , 231 12 0 
Dearness Allowance . 

88 ,02 14 0 
Provident Fund , 

117 4 0 
Garders and Lands . 

1 . Central Zone Gartens 
Cycle Allowance 

as 0 0 
Kamera Labour 

4 ,527 3 
Manure . 

315 
Seeds . . 

122 13 
Plants and Shrubs . 
Implements . . 
Watering Charges , 

2 ,010 10 6 
Contingencies . - 

4 12 6 
Miscellaneous . 

483 6 6 
University a Flowers Show . 157 06 
B . Other attached Central Zone Gardens: 
I. S . S . Hall 
(a ) Water Charges . 

695 1 0 
(b ) Manure , plants seeds and 170 90 

other Miscellaneous Ex 

- penses . . . 
2 . Engineering College : 
a Watering Charges 

527 149 
b ) Manure , plants , seeds and 

other Misc ,Expenses . 72 00 
Gardens and Lands : 
Cemented Gumias and Box for 
Mosque . 

500 OO 
Development of plots adjacent 

to the post office and the Union 451 12 0 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


8,074 09 


Brought Forward 


. 


865 100 


599 149 


2563 


(22 ) Gardens and Lands Revenue Account - (Cond.) 


2564 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. a . p . 


Rs. 


2. p. 


Rs. 


2. P. 


Rs. 


2. p . 


1 ,799 14 0 


598 2 0 
250 OO 
68 4 0 
32 OS 


100 126 


Purchase of Lawn-mower 
Contribution of Lily Pond 
Physics Department : 
Watering Charges 
Manure . plants Seeds and 

other Misc Expenses . 
Botony Chemistry and Zoology 

Department : 
Watering Charges . 
Manure,Seeds, plants and other 

Misc Expenses 
Other Gardens 

I . V . 1.Hill. . . 
,,Other Expenses . 
2 . l ice - Chancellor s House 

Other Expenses 
3 . Educatim Department . 

Other Expenses : : 


409 90 
618 II O 


1,028 


4 


0 


638 60 
278 36 
290 6 6 


638 60 
278 36 
290 6 o 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


TOTAL 


30 , 182 II 0 


TOTAL , 


30 , 182 II 


O 


( Sd .) OBAIDUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Hony, Treizsircm 
Muslim University , Aligarlı. 


[ParrJB 


(23 ) Institute of Islamic Studies Repenve Account 

For the year ended 31st March , 1956 


fac 
, 
3 
( 
ii 
) 
] 


EXPENDITU RE 


INCOME 


- 


- 


Rs. 


2 


p . 


Rs. 


2. p. 


Rs. 


2. P . 


Rs. 


2 


p . 


2 . Institute of Islamic Studies : 

I. Books and Manuscripts . 
2 . Publications . 
3 . Office Expenditure and Con 

tingencies 
4 . Water Supply and Maintance 

of Gardens 


3 ,453 
4 , 980 
1 , 047 


4 
5 
5 


WOO 


332 


3 


3 


9 ,813 I 6 


1 ,652 03 


7 ,810 8ò 


Library Equipment . . 

Books Manuscripts etc . . 
Laying out Garden and 
Expenses . 
Furniture 

Fans and Fittings 
Re-adjustment and necessary 

addition to the University 

Building 
Purchase of a cycle . , 


407 II 6 
4 , 171 II 0 
703 10 3 


THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
: 
SEPTEMBER 
26 
, 
1959 
/ 
ASVINA 
4 
, 
1881 
2565 


, 


235 60 ( 15 ,980 15 O 


= 


Saluries 
Ministerial Staff . 
Subordinate Staff 
Technical and Vocational Staff 
Dearness Allowance 
Provident Fund , , 


= 


2 , 540 00 

467 10 
12 ,600 OO 
1 ,170 00 

56 40 


( 16 ,803 14 


O 


Deficit During the year 


41,597 14 9 


TOTAL 


41, 597 14 6 


TOTAL 


14 ,597 14 


6 


(Si ) 031IDUR RAHAN K AN , 

H y . Treasurer , 
Mun ilerlty , ligur , 


124) Agriculture fem Ecd Aligarh Fort Revence Account 

For the period ended on 31st March , 1956 


2566 


EXPENDITTRE 


INCOME 


Rs. 


2 . p . 


Rs. 


2 


Rs. 


2 . p . 


Rs. 


a . 


p . 


Agriculture Farm : 


Labourers Charges , . 
Manure and Fertilizers . 
Concentrates for Live Stock 
Rent to Government 
Seeds . . 
Canal ducs . 
Rapairs of Tools and Implements 
Contingencies . 
Electricity General 
Cultivation Charges . 


5 ,700 14 6 
3 , 699 15 

308 5 3 
300 00 
617 5 9 
850 10 3 
3 , 171 15 9 

131 03 
III I56 
2 ,677 0 0 


p . 

Agriculture Farm : 
Sugar Cane Ikh . 

Cotton 
Wheat . 
Other Products 
Orchard . 
Bhusa , Grams, Fooder & Crub 
Vegetables . . 
Miscellaneous . . . 


3 ,480 0 0 

900 0 0 
4. 702 
1 , 525 I 9 

140 0 
3 , 196 90 

100 0 0 
585 4 0 


00000000 


14,629 0 


3 


- 


17, 569 


2 


9 


Aligarh Fort : 


Aligarh Fort : 


. 


. 


Kharif Products 
Rabi Products 
Cash Crops 


3 , 587 4 0 
5 , 745 96 
4 , 145 00 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,188! 


, 


13 ,468 136 
3 ,786 OO 


By contribution to Farm 


. .. 


5 ,655 66 
1,500 0 0 

306 2 0 
2 ,243 8 0 

326 8 0 
1,518 13 6 
3 ,786 Oo 


10,031 8 6 
5 , 304 13 6 


- 


Wages 
Rent of Agriculture Land 
Contingencies . . 
Cultivation Charges . 
Seeds . . 
Watering Charges . 

Contribution to Farm 
Agriculture Form : 

Repairs of Building . 
Purchase of tractor with imple 

ments . 

Plantation Scheme for Sugar Cane 
Aligarh Fort : 


Brough Forward 
Deficit During the year 


. 
. 


. 
. 


31,873 13 9 
20 ,261 7 9 


1,071 IO 

561 2 0 
2,826 96 


4 , 458 12 


6 


Water pumps , 
Cleaning and boaring of wells , 
Purchase of new Implements . 
Lay out of new lands and other de 

velopment plants . . . 


721 69 
194 90 
3, 712 15 O 
1,294 I 6 


PARTII 


5 ,923 o 


3 


SEC.3(ii)] 


Salaries : 

Agriculture Farm Tich . & Voc . . 
Aligarh Fort . » . 
Dearacss Allowance . 
Conveyance Allowance (Fort) 
Provident Fund . . 

TOTAL : 


6 , 280 1 0 
1,049 70 

473 II 0 
635 8 0 
59 8 0 


8 ,358 00 


52, 145 


5 


6 


TOTAL 


52 , 545 5 6 


( Sd .) OBALDUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Hony. Tresurur , 
Muslim University , Aligarh , 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881256 


( 25 ) M , U . Gazette Revenue Account 

For the year ended 31st March , 1956 


2568 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. 


2. p. 


Rs. 


4. p. 


Rs. 2. p . 
101 80 
16 00 


Subscription . 
Advertisements . 
Deficit during the year 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


1 


Rs. . D. 
1, 956 OO 

49 IO O 
48 70 

9 14 O 
1,716 20 


17 


8 


Printing Charges , 
Postage 
Stationery 
Maintenance of cycle 
Salaries . . . 


0 


3 ,662 90 


2 ,063 15 0 
1 ,716 2 0 


. 


. 


TOTAL . 


3 ,780 IO 


TOTAL , 


- 3 ,750 IO 


(Sd ). OBAIDUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Hon . Treasurer. 
Muslim Uruversity , Aligarh , 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


(PARTII 


(26) Examination Department Revenue Accordi 

For the year ended 31st March , 1956 


SEC.3(ii)] 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. 


a . 


P . 


Rs. a . p . 


Rs. 


2 . p . Rs. 


2 . 


p . 


. 


. 


Contingencies 
Printing Charges . 
Priating of Syllabus . 
Printing of papers , 
Convocation Expenses 
Answer Books , 
Remuneration Expenses 
Merit Scholarships . 

Printing of degrees and certificates 
Sures :-- - 


13 ,698 120 
17,248 10 9 

1, 787 I 6 
26 , 500 00 
5 , 174 2 

3 ,634 1 3 
1, 02,322 15 0 

8 , 949 8 0 
1.712 12 0 


OwOV 


Examination Fees . 
Registration Fee . 
Diploma and Certificate fee 
Enrolment fee , 
Sale of syllabus , . 
Miscellaneous . . 


1, 52 ,869 20 

6 ,004 15 0 
7, 865 II 0 
13 ,690 14 0 

827 13 9 
13,226 9 3 


1, 945485 IO ]: 


1,81,027 15 


3 


Deficit during the year 


18 ,729 5 6 


Administrative Staff . 
Ministerial Staff 
subordinate Staff 
Temporary Staff . 
Dearness Allowance 
T . . to Examiners ) . 
Provident Fund , 


3 ,510 80 
6 .741 2 0 

576 Oo 
1 , 123 100 
3 ,918 15 0 
15 ,548 4 3 

768 0 0 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,18812569 


32 ,186 7 
2 ,13 ,214 6 


3 
6 


TOTAL 


- 


TOTAL 


TOTAL 


: 


2 , 13 ,214 


2,13, 


6 


6 


(Sd). OBAIDUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Hony. Treasurer , 
Muslim University, Aligarh . 


(27) Electricity Department Repeate Account 

For the year ended 3151 March , 1956 , 


2570 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. 


a . 


p . 


Rs. 2 . 


p . 


Rs. 


a . 


p . 


Rs, a , p . 


Sale of Electricity 


Government Charges and Royal 

ties to Licences . 
Maintenance . 
Contingencies , 
Workman Uniform . . 


1, 05 ,668 80 

132 30 
432 09 
192 14 ó 


40 ,705 136 


1,06 ,175 9 9 

458 10 O 


University lecture Room and Offices 
Engineering College and Tibbiya 

College , Residential Quarters . 

Clubs and Societies , . 
Lan ersity Halls . , 

aurin . . 
M . U . School and Hostel 
M . U . Flour Mul 


Laying out ofGardens 

Furniture 


26, 297 15 3 
62, 916 13 6 
1 ,115 56 

76 I 


MOO 


453 10 


0 


1 ,31 , 112 09 


Salaries 


Ministenal Staff 
Technical and Vocational Staff . 
Subordinate Staff . 
Dearness Allowance 
Provident Fund . 
Surplus during the year . 


2 . 879 II 
4 , 981 1 
3 ,400 II 
5 ,935 0 

769 15 


00000 


THEGAZEITEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881,[PARUIX 


17 , 969 60 
6 ,208 70 


TOTAL 


1 ,81, 112 09 


TOTAL 


1 ,31, 112 09 


(Sd ), OBADUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Hory . TTEUTET, 
Muslim University , Aligarh . 


( 28 ) Engineering College Revenge Account 

For the year ended on 31st lurch , 1956 . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


T 


Sec.8(li)] 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. 


2. F . 


Rs. 


2. p . 


Rs. 


2. p. 


Salaries 


Teaching Staff 
Administrative Staff . 
Ministerial Staff 
Tech . & Voc . Staff . 
Subordinate Staff . 
Dearness Allowance , 


Rs. 2. p . 

9 . 987 
67, 701 
2 ,059 0 
8 , 834 


1 ,23 ,670 00 

15 , 120 00 
17,086 90 
1 . 102 9 
11 , 843 90 
57, 577 2 0 


By Interest , 
By Tuition Fee , 
By Admission Fee 
By Test Examination Fec 
By Sale of Syllabus . 
By Sale of Papers 
By Workshop Income 
By Elec . Lab . Income - 
By Elec . Miscellaneous 


OOWOOOOOO 000000000 


2 ,66 , 407 13 


0 


1 ,578 


33 0 


Travelling Allorcance 


I21 


90 ,320 II 6 


( a ) Ele . Engs : 95 9 
(b ) Miech , » . 81 4 
( C ) Civil , 429 2 

( d ) Office & W / s . 337 6 
Provident Fund , 


0000 


943 50 
11,080 120 


12 ,024 i o 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINAI,1881 


Depuriment of Electrical Engineering 

Contingencies . 
Running Expenses . 


233 0 
738 15 


3 
6 


367 50 
15 14 0 
75 80 
110 00 


Maintenance of Machines 

( a ) Power . . . . 

(6 ) Communication . 
Printing Charges , 
Telephone Charges . 
Consumable material for Electric 

Lab . , 
Consumable material for Commu 

cation Lab . . . . 
Instructional Tour , . 
Special Lecturer Course , 
Depreciation on Machine . 
Expenditure on Project Work 
Periodicals 


5,465 06 


531 14 0 
1 ,043 14 0 

200 00 
2 ,000 00 
485 14 0 
600 00 


11,867 5 3 


25711 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


* 


- -- - - - - 


- 


-- - - - -- - - 


(28) Engineering College Revente Account ( contd.) 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. 4 


p. 


Rs. 


8. p . 


Rs. 


4 


p . Rs. 


4. 


p . 


- 


- 


- 


Department of Mech . Engg . 

Contingencies . 

Running Expenses (Hydraulic ) 
Maintenance of Machine 


- 


184 76 
346 g 6 


. 


- 


- 


- 


- 


0 


( a ) Heat Engine . 
(5 ) Hydraulic Laboratory 
Printing Charges : 


329 12 
227 II 
70 10 


6 


Consumable materials 

(a ) Hydraulic Lab . 
(6 ) Heat Engine Lab . . 
Instructional Tours . . 
Special Lecturer Course . 
Depreciation on Machines 
Periodicals 
Expenditure on Project-work 


2572THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


1 ,003 II 9 
, 1 ,329 69 
1 , 138 9 0 

248 14 0 
1, 000 Oo 
452 ISO 
1000 


6 ,432 


2 


0 


117 10 - 0 
476 90 


Department of Civil Engg . 

Contingencies . . 
Running Expenses . 
Maintenance of Survey Instru 

ments . 
Maintenance of Testing Lab . 
Printing Charges . 
Consumable Materials . 
Instructional Tours . . 
Survey Camp . . 
Special Lecturer Course . 
Depreciation on Machines 
Project work . 
Periodicals . , 

. 


76 


230 1 


WAOOOHNUO60 


1, 424 
1 , 005 


ܘܘܘܚܘܘܘܘܘܘ 


200 


1 , 0000 

384 
555 


[PARTII 


Cycle Allowance for Demons 

trators 


120 00 


5 . 956 Ii : 


Sec.3(11)] 


Work ,hop 


53 12 
238 4 
1,016 5 
1 ,154 


- 


Contingencies 
Running Expenses 
Maintenance of Machine 
Workshop Vehicles 
Registration Fee 
Workshop Licence Renewal Fee 
Printing Charges 
Consumable Material 
Depreciation on Machines 


304 


- 


- 


250 0 

63 I 
10 , 801 3 
5 , 000 0 


MO 


7 
0 


18 ,879 01 


Engineering College Office 

Contingencies 
Printing Charges 
Telephone Charges 
Power Electricity 
Water Charges . 
Repairs of Furniture 
Hot and Cold Weather Expenses 
Additional Examination 


1 , 900 36 
1, 199 5 3 

120 00 
7 , 092 2 6 
295 & 
203 II 3 

I I2 O 
6 , 862 36 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,18812573 


17 ,674 14 


3 


Non - Recurring 


Erection of Machine 
Furniture and Equipment 
Electric Fans 
Equipment for Lab . & Wshop . 
Office Appliance 


9 , 965 4 0 
7 , 546 14 6 

1, 754 13 0 
27, 112 II 6 
13 ,966 II 6 


. 


60 ,346 6 6 Deficit during the year . 
3, 99 ,585 9 10 

TOTAL 


3 , 09 ,264 14 4 
3 ,99 ,585 9 10 


TOTAL 


( Sd. - OBAIDUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Hony. Treasurer , 
Muslim University , Aligarh . 


(29) University Polytechnic Revenue Account 

For the year ended 31st March , 1956 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. a . p . 


Rs. 2 . 


p . 


Rs. 2. p . 


: Rs. 2 . p . 


1, 878 13 O 
• 200 00 

190 13 0 
682 20 


By Fees : 
Tuition Fee . 
Admission Fee 
Test Examination Fee 


. 


. 


. 
. 


23 ,495 00 

859 00 
3 , 735 Oo 


Sale of Prospectus 


1, 155 6 


3 


29 ,244 6 


3 


Instructional Tours . . 
Survey Camps 
Electric and Mech . Engg. Project 
Consumable material for Elec 

trical Laboratory 
Consumable material for Heat En 

gines and Hydraulic Labs. 
Running Expenses 
Office contingencies 
Printing charges . 
Telephone charges 
Additional Exam . Expenses 
Civil Engineering Project 
Furniture for Office and Class 

Rooms 

Purchase of a cycle 
Salaries : 

Teaching Staff 
Administrative Staff 
Ministerial Staff . 
Tech . and Voc, Staff 
Subordinate Staff 
Dearness Allowance 
T . A . 
Provident Fund . 


141 8 6 
201 15 0 
578 3 
283 8 

so oo 
- 395 7 0 

97 14 O 


2574THEGAZETTEOFINDIA;SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


4 , 700 36 


1 , 250 13 0 
258 00 


1 , 508 13 


0 


28 ,833 12 0 

6000 
1 , 354 10 

612 13 0 
1 , 708 50 
9 , 440 II O 
750 00 
997 80 


43 ,997 II O Defivit during the year 


20 , 962 5 


3 


TOTAL 


50 , 206 II 6 


TOTAL 


50 ,206 II 3 


- - 


- 


- 


(Sd.) - BAIDUR R AMAN KHAN . 

Hony, Treasurer , 
Mulslim University , Aligarh , 


[PARTII 


(30) Telephone Department Revenue Account 

For the year ended 31st March , 1956 


SEC,8(ii)] 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. . p . 


Rs. a. p . 


Rs. 2 . p . 
138 OO 
555 IS O 
900 Oo 


By Rent 


. 


. 


Tools and Accessories 
Contingencies 


. 


. . 
the year 


Rs. a . p . 
1,330 0 0 
3, 596 90 


Deficit during 


Depreciation 


1, 593 15 


0 


Salaries : 

Technical & Vocational Staff 
Dearness Allowance 


, 


2 ,492 IO o 
840 00 


3 ,332 T0 


0 


TOTAL 


4,926 90 


TOTAL 


4 , 926 90 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


(Sd.) OBAIDUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Hony . Tremurer , 
Musiim University , Aligarh . 


2575 


(31) Tibbiya College Revenue Account 
For the year ended 31st March , 1956 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. a . p . 


Rs. 2. p . 


Rs. 2 . p. 


Rs. a. p. 


Salarics 

I Teaching Staff 
2 Ministerial Staff 
3 Tech . & Voc. Staff 
4 Subordinate Staff 
Dearness Allowance 
Travelling Allowance 

Provident Fund 
I Office and College 
I Printing - . 
2 Stationery . . 


44,655 OO 


35 , 000 00 
5,000 OO 
4 , 502 00 

153 00 
5 , 141 00 
2 , 284 8 0 

21 8 0 
104 14 0 


U . P . Government Grant 
56 .063 100 

U . P .Govt. Additional Grant 
4 , 386 6 0 

By Fees 
11, 781 10 

Tuition Fee 
7 ,061 14 0 

Admission Fee . . 
25 , 929 II 0 

X - Ray Income 
113 8 0 

Pathology Income 
4 , 158 50 109 . 523 7 0 Income from Wards 

Sale of Books 
1 ,202 12 6 

Municipal Grant 
730 12 3 

Medicine at concession rate (one anna 

per patient) 
1, 407 5 

Miscellaneous . . . . 


2576THEGAZEITEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


2 ,486 50 


332 


8 


0 


10 , 370 11 0 


3 Contingencies 
4 Advertisement Charges 
S Repairs & Renewal or Furniture 
6 Water works Charges . 
7 Upkeep of Garden 
8 Rent of society Buildings 


262 Ò 
450 2 


584 10 
329 II 
660 00 


9 Rent of Land (Municipality ) 
IO Telephone Charges 
II Liveries for Nurses 
12 Electric current Charges 
13 Public Telephone 
14 Scholarships 


321 80 

50 00 
199 00 
3 , 195 136 

288 00 
4 ,349 00 


14, 030 10 


9 


181 59 
137 30 
40 100 


2 Anatomy Department 

( a ) Equipment 
(6 ) Chemicals 

(0) Apparatus and Appliances 
3 Pathology Department 

(2 ) Equipment 
(5 ) Share from Income , 


359 2 


9 


340 70 


977 6 5 


1, 317 13 6 


[PARTII 


Sza.3(ii)] 


- 


- 


4 Physiology Depiliment 

(a ) Instruments Chemi 

cals and Equipment . 84 9 6 
5 X - Rav Department, 
I X -Ray Films 

2 , 150 6 6 
2 Equipment and Chemicals 

184 10 6 
3 Depreciation on X -Ray Machine 500 OO 
4 Sharc from Income 

2 , 178 9 


- 


508 39 


6 


Surgical Indoor Department 


(a ) Medicines and Dressing 
( 6 ) Surgical Instrument 
( c ) Surgical Equipment 
( Approns 
( e ) Diet for patients 

Dress for patients 
g ) Accounts for Maintaining 

Patients . . 
( ởi Cracker ; 
( 1 ) Repairs of Beds etc . 


2 , 265 0 0 

304 I 0 
411 50 

199 0 
2 .659 9 

148 2 


447 40 
2100 
100 00 


6 ,555 56 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,18812577 


7 


Helical Indor Department 


HN 


2 ,079 2 5 

73 20 


I Diet for patients 
2 Dress for patients 
3 Accessories for Maintaining 

Patients 
+ Approns 
5 Repairs and Renewals of Beds . 
6 Crockery 
7 Purchase of Medicine 


220 4 9 

20 60 
100 

45 II 3 
3 ,034 13 6 


5 , 573 


7 II 


( 1) tibbiya College Revenue Account - conte. 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. a. p . 


Rs. 


2. p . 


Rs. 


a . p 


Rs. 


2. P . 


$ . Unani Dispensery . 

Purchase of Medicines 
Repairs and Polish of Furniture 
Contingencies 


13 ,944 IO 3 

99 00 
237 I 9 


14 ,280 120 


M 


9 . Library 

Purchase of Books . 
Journals and Newspapers 
Binding of Books . 


439 90 
221 II 6 
296 4 0 


. 


957 


8 


ó 


-2578THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


10. Research Department 

Chemicals 
Mechanical and Gass Apparatus 
Contingency . . 


597 03 
817 13 0 
64 8 0 


1 ,479 


5 


3 


II. Science Department 

Chemicals and Apparatus 
12 . Publications 


883 10 6 
521 3 0 


13, Harberium 

Botanical Garden 
Museum Medicines 


, 


239 II 6 
199 I5 6 


14 . Unani Pharmacology Lab . 

Medicines . . 


. 


. 


399 


8 


0 


IS . Contributions 

Conservancy Department 
Boarding House . . 


, 


500 00 
3 ,000 o 


5 , 744 0 


6 


[PARTII 


the vol Cullen 


SEC 
. 
3 
( 
10 
) 


Hospita ! 


Electric fans tor the 

and main Building 


1,490 


1 


Furniture for different Deput 


1 ,419 17 0 


1, 702 100 


Spl. Equipment for Surgical 
Clock for Library Hall 


120 00 


Low speed Centrifuge for Patho 

logy 


487 14 


O 


Hand drive Trolly for Anatomy 

Deptt . . . . . 
Water Bath for Pathology . 


355 00 
387 IC 0 


Hot air oven dissecting Mycro 

scope and Chemical Balances . 


1,507 14 0 


Equipment for Surgical Ward . 
Type- Writer . . . . 
Payment of share of Radiologist 
Clock for Dressing Hall . . 


1 ,437 7 
1, 103 15 9 
2,725 30 
120 OO 


THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
: 
SEPTEMBER 
26 
, 
1959 
/ 
ASVINA 
4 
, 
1881 
2579 


12,852 13 


Sphygmone Monometer for Phy 

siology . . . . 


618 12 3 


Hacno cytometers 5 for Phy 

siology . . . 


16 OO 


( 1) Tibbiya College Revente Account - (contd .) 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. 2. 


Rs. 2. p . 
26 00 


p . 


IO OO 


Sactero metera s for Physio 

logy 
Sperometer § for Physio 

logy 
Repair of Instrument Surg 

cry 
Links fitting and Pipe line Ex 

tension for Research 
Aerogen Gas generator 

Burners for Science 
Water Supply Extension for 

Science 
Equipment for Unani Pharmaco 

logy Lab . . 
Purchase of Text and reference 

Books on Account of the char 

ge of Syllabus . 
Special Repair of Furniture . 

TOTAL 


731 80 
135 00 
5, 180 100 

683 100 
1, 397 14 3 


2580THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER28,1989/ASVINA4,1881 


Deficit during the year 


1, 921 8 
349 6 


0 
0 


. 


1 ,33 ,817 4 


8 


11,070 4 6 
1,88, 842 15 8 


TOTAL 


, 


1,88 ,842 15 8 


( Sd .) OBADUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Hony. Treasurer, 
Muslim University , Aligarh . 


partn 


(32 ) M . V . High School Revenge Account 

For the year ended 31st March 1956 . 


Sec.$(L)] 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOHE 


Rs. IP. 


Rs . a , p . 
18 , 380 00 


Rs. 2 . p . 
18 , 380 00 


Salories : 

Teaching Staff 
Administrative Staff 
Ministerial Staff . 
Tech . & Vocational Staff 
Subordinate Staff 
Dearness Allowance 
Provident Fund 


Rs. a. D . 

U . P . Govt. grant 
By Fees : 

Tuition Fee . 
T . C . Fee . 
Supervision fee 

Pankha Fee 
72,530 13 0 Fines 


. 


. 


44 ,033 IO 
1, 360 00 
2 ,831 3 

600 o 
3 ,010 00 
18 ,548 70 
2 , 148 10 


. 


18 ,549 5 

2 0 0 
2, 127 6 9 
1, 180 3 7 
627 12 6 


OOONO 


22 , 486 II IO 


723 3 3 
47 6 0 
50 oo 
95 3 0 

oo 


40 00 
84 15 6 
209 86 


1,310 


4 


3 


Office contingency 
Commerce 
Wood for woodcraft 
Stationery and books for teachers 
Telephone Rent . 
Repairs and replacement of fur 

niture 
Upkeep of Science Lab . 
Hot aod Cold Weather 

Charges 
Petty repairs . . 
Liveries for peons 
Library 
Boy Scouts 
Prizes and Medals 
Puokha Charges 

Maintenance of Garden 
Non - Recurring : 

Four Ceiling fans 
Furniture and equipments 
Books for Library . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,18812581 


40 8 
144 12 
558 8 
IIO II 
148 6 
416 4 
II6 4 


1 ,535 6 


3 


820 14 
3 ,127 9 

381 6 


4,320 14 6 


. 


- - - - - 


Deficit during the year 

TOTAL _ . 


- - - - - - - - - - 


38,839 10 2 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

79 .706 60 


79,706 60 


- - - - 
TOTAL 
(Sd.) OBAIDUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Hony. Treasurer , 
Muslim University , Aligarh . 


133 ) Maslim University City High School Repenue Account 

For the year ended 31st March 1956 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. a . p. 


Rs. 


2 


p . 


822 4 9 

99 $ 6 
769 o o 
997 2 3 


U . P . GovernmentGrant 
Tuition Fee 
Enhanced Tuition Fees 
Admission Fee 
T . C . Fee 
Fine 
Miscellaneous 


15, 828 00 
15 ,562 13 
5 ,682 3 
547 0 0 
102 00 
450 120 
252 96 


38 , 425 


5 


6 


Contingencies 
Rent and Taxes 
Petty Repairs Additions and Al 

terations and Fittings . 
Repairs and Replacement of 

Furniture 
Reorganisation of Secondary 

Education and Development 

of Hobbies 
Upkeep of Science 
Upkeep of Nature Study 
Upkeep of Agriculure 
Upkeep of Gardens 
Upkeep cf Art 
Upkeep of Geography 
Upkeep of History . 
Upkeep of Library . 
Hot and Cold Weather Expenses 
Books and Stationery for Tea 

chers 


68 11 6 
361 3 0 

21 5 
142 0 


EnbouwNoCF bwangaon 


2582THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER20,1969/ASVINA4,1881 


199 15 
149 15 


598 


3 


459 12 


217 13 


0 


5 ,689 90 


Other Charges 
Prizes and Medals 
Telephone 
Equipment for Leather Work 
Equipment for Tailorirg . 
Furniture for tailoring and 
Leather Work . . 
Purchase of Sewing Machine 
Purchase of New Cycle 
Purchase of Typewriter 
Completion of Tubc -well 


200 0 0 
300 0 0 
404 26 
520 30 


1,424 


5 


6 


1, 634 IO 

578 14 0 
247 Oo 
1 , 140 09 
2 ,679 15 0 


(PART 


6 ,279 14 


2 


Sutaries: 

Teaching Staff 
Ministerial Staff 
Subordinare Staff 
Dearess Allowance 
Provident Fund 


Sec.3(ii)] 


32 , 339 0 0 
2 , 277 15 0 

2 ,684 60 
14 , 205 150 

1 ,484 15 0 
66 , 336 O 3 


Deficit during the year. 


52 ,992 3 


4 


27, 963 10 
66,386 0 


9 
3 


TOTAL 


. 


TOTAL 


, 


, 


(Sd.) OBAIDUR RAHMAN KHAN, 

Hony . Treasurers 
Muslim University , Aligacb . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,18812582 


UN 


134 ) Muslim University City Branch School Reyenne Account 

Balance Sheet as at 3151 Murch , 1956 


NDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. 


2. p . 


Rs. 


2, p . 


Rs. 


2.p . 


Rs. 4. p. 
50 00 
152 0 0 


Fur 


Fees : 

Tuition Fee . 
Enhanced Tuition Fee 
Miscellaneous 


Contingencies 
Petty Repairs 
Repairs and Replacemento 

niture 
Books and Stationery 
Basic 
Library 
Teaching Aids 


906 15 
339 8 
35 4 


0 
0 
0 


1 ,281 II 


0 


400 00 
100 0 
100 00 
100 00 
200 00 


1, 102 00 


Deficit during the year 


. 


. 


5 ,247 6 


o 


2584THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


Salarias : 

Teaching Staff 
Subordinate Staff 
Dearness Allowance 
Provident Fund 


. 


2 ,688 8 0 

340 90 
2 , 262 8 0 
135 80 


5,427 10 


TOTAL 


. 


. 


6 ,529 10 


Total 


, 


6 ,529 


I o 


(SL ) OBAIDUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Hony. Treasurer, 
Muslim University , Aligarh , 


(PARTII 


(35 ) Women s Coflege Revenue Account 

for the year cuted 31st March , 1956 


SEC.8({i)] 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. 2. p . 


Rs. 2 . P . 


Ra. a . p . 
20 ,500 OO 
2 ,000 00 


Rs. 2. p . 
22 ,500 0 0 


Salaries : 

Teaching Staff 
Administrative Suff . 
Ministerial Staff 
Tech . & Voc , Staff 
Subordinate Staff - 


93, 152 12 0 
2 , 160 00 
7 , 149 90 
3 , 510 0 0 
4 , 365 14 0 


U . P . Government Grant 

U . P . Govt Grant for Hostels 
By Fees : 

Tuition Fee . 
Admission Fee 
T . C Fee , 
Library Fee . 
Miscellaneous 
By Rent 


20 ,492 4 
810 

19 8 
443 
778 


+0000mo 0000000 


1, 10 ,338 30 


31,626 


2 


0 


22 ,548 II 0 


27 , 111 50 
4 ,514 13 

946 3 
4 ,838 5 
3 ,881 IO 6 


2 , 900 


804 60 
788 93 


288 90 
385 60 


15 , 906 


8 


6 


Deficit during the year 


. 


. 


Dearness Allowances 
Provident Fund 
Contingencies 
Library Books , 
Upkeep of Science 
Science Equipment . 
Domestic Science Lab . Exp . 
Printing and advertisement 
Upkeep or Garden . 
Repair and Purchase of Furniture 
Telephone Rent and Extension 

Charges . 
Hot and Cold Weather 
College Day Celebration 
Upkeep of Cycle , 
Miscellaneous 
Depreciation of Buildings 
Depreciation on Appliances 
Sports equipment . 
Art and Craft Material : 
Botanical Gardens , 
Layingout of a new garden 
Domestic Science Lab . Equipment 
Purchase of Library Books 
Electricity Expenses 


1: 34 ,204 14 


O 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,18812585 


9 ,474 19 


201 8 0 

25 1 0 
247 8 9 
7 , 5000 
1, 500 00 

598 0 
1, 156 

207 
2 ,497 
43219 
2 ,536 

694 1 0 


HuaHino 


ooooooo 


11, 908 99 
1,79 ,253 90 


TOTAL . 


. 


1, 79 , 253 90 


TOTAL . 
(Sd .) OBAIDUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Нcny, Treasтет , 
Muslim University, Aligarh , 


(36 ) MU. Girls High School Revenue Account 

for the period ended on 31st March , 1956 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOMB 


Rs. 2 


p . 


Rs. 2. p . 


Rs, 2 


p . 


Rs. 2. p . 


397 II 


. 


295 4 


U . P , Government Grant . 
Tuition Fee . 
E . Tuition Fee 
Admission Fee 
T . C . Fee 


.... 


16 , 568 0 . 0 
11,680 00 
2 , 742 3 0 

39 0 
144 8 


150 


2586THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER 


167 


0 


790 

10 
399 


OH oon0000000000 

O 


. 


Library Fee 
Science Fee , 
Conveyance Fee 


M . U . Girls High School : 

Contingencies , . 
Library Books 
Up - keep of Science 
Books and Stationery for Teachers 
Up - keep of Garden 
Repairs and Replacement of 

Furniture . . 
Petty Repairs of Buildings 
Hot and cold Weather 
Prizes 
Equipment for History and 

Geography . . . . 
Purchase of a Type-writer 
Purchase of a Bicycle : 
Purchase of Science Apparatus 
Purchase of 7 Electric fans and 

instalation . . . 
Salaries : 

Teaching Staff 
Ministerial Staff 
Subordinate Staff . 
Dearness Allowance 
Allowance . 
Provident Fund 


... 


343 II 0 
301 80 
61 00 


2 ,784 50 


Pankha Fee , 
Rent of Rooms 
Fines . . 
Miscellaneous 
Deficit during the year 


945 8 6 
157 50 
400 00 


ооооооо 


544 14 
1 , 540 4 

660 


..... 


102 15 


34 ,723 11 0 
13 , 835 136 


3 ,034 8 6 


0 


1,531 II 
26 , 183 00 
1 , 842 10 
1, 625 roo 
11 ,907 60 

100 00 
1 , 087 I 0 


0 


1959/ASVINI1.1881 


42 ,745 II 0 
48 :564 8 6 


TOTAL 


TOTAL 


. 


. 


48 , 564 8 6 


(Sd. ) OBAIDUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Hory . Treasurer, 
Muslim University , Aligarh: 


[PARTII 


- 


- 


(37) Ahmadi School for the Blind Revenue Account 

For the year ended 31-3 - 1956 


-- 


SEC.3(i)) 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. a. p . 


Rs. 4. P 


Rs. a. p . 


Rs, a 


p 


- 


Donations 
Rent of building 


93 80 
1 ,08000 


. 


. 


1 , 173 


8 


0 


-- 


2 ,291 09 
429 15 0 

95 26 
161 14 0 

13 0 


- 


99 
24 14 6 


Fooding charges 
Clothing charges 
Books and Paper 
Repairs of building 
Electric charges 
Contingencies 
Miscellaneous 
Garden 
Education Equipment 
Salaries and Dearness Aljance : . 
Teaching staff 
Ministerial Staff 

. 
Subordinate Staff , . 


20 I 
149 14 
100 0 


6 
9 
0 


3 , 372 12 


0 


768 00 
214 IT 0 
605 00 


1, 587 II O 


Deficit during the year 

TOTAL 


3, 786 15 O 
4, 960 70 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,18812587 


TOTAL . 


4 ,960 70 


: 


. 


( Sd .) OBAIDUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Hony, TrezSuTET , 
Muslim University , Aligarh 


(38 ) Institute of Opthalmology Revenue Account 

For the period ended on 31st March , 1956 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. 2. p . 


Rs. 4 p . 


Rs. 2 


p . 


Rs. 


2. 


p . 


Contribution . . . 
Tuition fee . 
Blood Test Examination Fee 


. 
. 
, 


50 , 000 0 0 
1, 392 6 9 
147 00 


51, 539 6 


9 


636 2 0 
3 , 302 4 9 
5 , 565 12 6 

300 00 
1 , 301 6 

195 0 
2 , 2300 


1, 108 15 

88 6 


Institute of Ophthalmology : 

Boarding Uniform , Quarter and 

Electricity Allowance , 
Running Expenses . . 
Contingencies , 
Extra Lecturers by Outsiders 
Library and Reading Room 
Telephone 
Hostel Rent 
Hostel Establishment 
Contingencies 
Stationery and Printing 
Rent of House and Stores 
Contribution to Account Keeping 
Contribution Medical Depart 
ment for 1 / 2 expenses of Or 

ganising Secretary 
Equipment for Pathological s 

and Bacteriological Labort 

tory , 
Special Equipments for Ophthal 

mic Section . . . 


14 ,639 8 


0900000000000 


3 


2588THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


49 00 
1, 320 0 
2 ,000 0 0 


5, 074 OO 


8, 531 


6 


o 


13,944 4 9 
4,832 00 


Deficit during the year 


. 


. 


72,835 30 


Furniture 
Purchase of Books etc. . . 
Equipments for museum , 
Photographic Section . 
E .N . T . Eynipments 
Purchase of Typewriter , 
Cost for securing the Services of a 

Visiting Professor 


15 ,805 9 3 
4,909 8 0 
5, 698 16 
12, 343 4 0 
3 , 291 13 0 

472 00 


10 ,652 11 0 


71,919 3 


[PARTID 


SEC.3(ii)] 


. 


Salaries : 
Teaching Staff 

u . . 
Ministerial Staff 
Ministerial Staff G , Stores 
Tech . & Voc . Staff . 
Subordinate Staff . 
Dearness Allowance 
Travelling Allowance 
Provident Fund , 


18,497 00 
1,627 2 0 
1,699 150 
1, 722 8 
1 ,006 3 0 
4 , 284 2 0 

18000 
237 10 0 


ооооо 


29,254 8 0 


TOTAL . 


. 


1, 24 ,374 


9 


9 


TomAL. 


1 ,24 , 374 9 


9 


(Sd .) OBAIDUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Hony . Treasurer , 
Muslim University , Aligarh . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


2580 


(39 ) Additions and Alterations Receipt and Payment Statements as at 31st March , 1956 


2590 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. a . D . 
2,960 10 9 


Rs. 2. p . 
2 ,960 10 9 


Rs. 2 . p . 
85 00 


1. To Salaries 


By Sale of Material 
Deficit during the year 


Rs. 2 . P . 

85 OO 
2 ,875 IO 9 


, 


TOTAL 


2 , 960 10 


9 


TOTAL 


. 


2 ,960 10 


9 


( Sd .) OBAIDUR RAHMAN KHAN , 

Hony . 7 reasurer, 
Muslim University, Aligarh . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA.SEPTEMBER26,1939/ASVINA4,1881 


. 


. 


[DariIl 


140 ) Tibblya College Boarding House Revenue Account 

Balance Sheet as on 31st March , 19 56 
- 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
EXPENDITURE 

INCOME 


Sko.$(11)) 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - - - 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- - 


Rs. 2 . p . 


Rs. 


2 . 


p . 


Rs. a. p . 


Rs, a. p. 


Revenue Account : 


By Ree enue Account : 


Boarding House Establishment . 
Contingency , 
B . H . G . R . 
Hostel Sayings Account 
Water Supply . 
Garden & Play Ground , 
Miscellaneous Payments 
Net Surplus carried over to the 

Balance Sheet . . 


3 ,893 54 
100 00 
13 2 6 

so oo 
- 74 56 

43 00 
621 120 


Hall Amenities 
Electric Charges 
Interest 
Games . . 
Hostel Fec 
Hall Admission Fee 
Hall Fines 
Hall Late Payment Fines 


874 2 6 
576 IO 

199 13 
1,812 5 
9, 852 
100 00 
48 12 0 
4 8 0 


0000nowa 


8,554 12 


5 


TOTAL 


. 


. 


13 468 


5 


3 


TOTAL 


13,468 


5 


3 


( Sd . ) A . RAUF , 

Hony . Asstt. Treasurer , 
Muslim University Aligarh . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,18812591 


- 


- 


(41) Tibbiya College Boarding House Account 

General Balance Sheet as on 31st March , 1956 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


2 . 


p . 


Rs . . p . 


Rs. 


2. p. 


Rs. 1. p. 
21,041 5 6 


3,727 00 


Students Current Account 


. 


36 , 130 


7 


8 


Deposits 
Hall Surplus : 

As per last Balance Sheet . 
Add surplus for the year , 
Tuition Fee . . 
T . C . Admission Fee 
Proctorial Fines , 
Fines . . 
Reserve Fund . 
Cost of Breakage . 
Union Club . . 
Enrolment Fee 
Surgical Instrument , 
Breakage of P . Studio 
Uniform Account 
T . C . Society 
Food 
Music 
Annual Examination Fee 
Tibbiya Magazine 
Food Reserve Fund , 


27, 575 II 3 

8 ,554 12 5 
14 ,540 13 
805 2 

36 8 
748 8 
3 , 908 7 

27 1 
1, 851 

437 0 


Scholarship Account 
Mahet s Account 
Central Office Account 
P . Cash Account 
Advance Account 
Examination Fee 
Fixed Deposit 
National Sayings Certificates . 
Cash Book Balance 


5 , 161 8 0 

663 12 0 
21,718 20 

869 12 
1,433 15 0 


2592THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


29, 847 16 

115 9 3 
8 , 000 0 
3,000 0 
16 , 159 10 


OONOOFAOnWOOOHOOOONE OWOOOOOOOOWOOOOOO 


22 ,394 7 


3 


145 2 
489 8 


15 ,911 12 3 
78 , 163 II 2 


Total 


TOTAL 


. 


78 , 163 II 2 


(Sd ). A RAUF, 
Hony . Asstt . Treasurer , 

Muslim University Aligart . 


(PartII 


(42 ) Muslim University High School Boarding House Account 

Revenue Account Balance Sheet us on 31st March , 1956 


SEC.8(ii)] 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. 


2 . p . 


Rs. 


a . p . 


Rs. a . P : 


Rs. . P . 


i 


To Revenue : 


By Revenue Account : 


Contribution to Conseryancy 

Account . . 
Servant s Pay , 
Dearness Alowance . 
B . House GeneralRequisites 
Liveries Account 
Contribution to 4 % Reserve Fund 


13436 
2 , 880 
3 ,600 OO 
137 3 
41 4 0 
43000 


B . House Admission Fec , 
B . House Establishment Fee 
Late payment Fine - - 
Dhobi Charges 
Net deficit carried over to Balance 

Sheet for the year . . . 


Omo 


289 II 0 
5 , 936 ro o 
656 50 
672 40 
969 96 


TOTAL . 


. 


8,524 76 


TOTAL . 


. 


8,524 76 


(sd ). A . RAUF, 

Hony . Asstt. Treasurer , 
Muslim University Aligarh . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDLA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,18812592 


43 , Muslim University High School Boarding House Account 

General Balance Sheet as on 3151 March , 1956 


- 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - - - 


Rs. 


a , p . 


Rs. 1 , p . 


Rs. 


2 


p . 


Rs. a . 


p . 


9 ,228 6 2 
3 , 320 14 10 

108 05 
324 3 0 

2 I 0 


Students Current Account 
Students Dead Account 
Frou Fund Deposit for 1947- 18 . 
B . H . Furniture Account , , 
Exchange and Commission , 
Cash Bonk Balance as on 31- 3 - 56 . 


70 ,563 15 8 

593 93 
2 .018 13 11 

99 13 6 

45 2 
4 , 274 10 


4 13 


Tuition Fec 
Enhanced T . Fee 
Supervision Foc 
Medical Fee . 
Hospital Charges 
Establishment Fec 
Room Rent 
Other Fines 
Pankha Fec 
Class Fine 
Proctorial Fue 
English House Account 
English House R . Fund , 
Contribution to 46 R . Fund 
B . House R . Fund 
S . Bath . 
Tennis Fee . . 


биб о 
98 100 
45 13 
333 15 


aantoOOOOOOOOOOOO 


Deficit : 
(a ) Balance as per last Balance Sheet 
(b ) Deficit for the year 1955 - 56 


8403 II + 

969 9 6 


2594THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


9 , 373 


+ 10 


13 ,895 9 

457 14 


11456 14 
14 353 7 
1, 252 + 


5 
9 
1 


430 


-OT 


3 ,822 4 
912 7 
119 8 


86 ,969 5 5 


32 00 


1, 114 0 0 
19 ,338 80 
3 , 372 10 1 ] 


+ 3578 


Riding Fee , 
Deposit Account 
Students Deposit Account 
Food Fund 
Electric Light 
Science Fee 
Cinema Fee 
Examination Fee 
Ink Fee , 
Post Card Account . 
Refreshment Fee . 
Arts & Crafts Account 
Glass Panes 


397 10 II 
2 , 886 
2 ,509 8 

871 2 
2 ,871 8 
1 , 309 9 
2,317 15 8 
542 II 9 
764 5 6 


o OONO aocowwwtelur 


[PARTLB 


Rs. 1 . p . 


Rs. 2 . p . 


1s. 2. . 


Rs. 


2 . p. ! 


738 4 
283 10 
848 12 
248 4 


Sec.8()] 


Library Reading and Magazine 
Games Fee 
Athletic Sports 
Zahoor Ward Furniture 
Common Room 
Cost of Books 
Cammerce Fee 
School R , Fund 
Cultural Activities 


239 


ut OOWOOOOO 


19 11 
334 14 
8 , 219 II 

500 0 


0 


30 ,081 8 0 


TOTAL , 


. 


86 ,969 55 


TOTAL , 


86 ,969 55 


( Sd ). A . RAUF, 

Hony. Asstt. Treasurer , 
Muslim University Aligarh . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


ANAL 


2595 


( 14 ) M . U . Boarding House Account 


2596 


General Balance Sheet as On 31st March , 1956 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Rs. a. p . 


Rs. a. p . 


Rs. 2 p. 


Rs. 2 p . 
22 ,231 30 


379 10 

343 8 
1,780 15 
1 , 190 3 


Student s Account 
Exchange & Commission 
Advance Account 
V . C s fund . 
V . M . Hall Alch 
Food Fuod S . S . E . Hall 
Outstanding A / C 
Sir Sulaiman Hall Alc 
Cash book balance as on 31 - 3 - 56 . 
Outstanding (from students) 


5, 603 


24 60 
16 , 938 6 

2 , 460 & 9 
23, 330 12 

1, 300 130 
19 ,744 8 0 
28 ,084 4 


aovao 


91, 883 10 
1 ,26 ,223 13 

92, 151 8 


باانبا 


10,207 O 3 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


195 


2 


Electric charges D . O . M . S . 
Establishment for D .O . M . S . 
Hostel Rent D . O . M . S . 
N . C . C . 
Medical Fee 
Slaughter House . 
Vendors Licence Fee 
Vendors Deposit Alc 
Enrolment Fee 
Lytton Library Admission Fee 
Shop -Keepers Licence fee 
Excess Cash . . . 
Geography books deposit 
Purchase of B . T . books 
Scout camp Alc . 
Arabic Society 
Binnot Club . 
Botanical Society 
Chemical Society 
Commerce Society . 
Economic Society 
Education Society 
German Society . 
Geography Society 
Geology Society 
Historical Society 
Hindi & Sanskrit Society 
Law Society 
Mathematical Society 
Persian Society . 
Physical Society 
Philosophical Society 


3 


inanciranooooooooooooo NANNUOmano-FEHOOOOOOOooooow 


i oo 
53 50 
586 13 9 
926 15 0 

164 5 5 
1 ,731 6 
3 ,047 II II 
1 ,048 5 II 

146 15 2 
501 121 
2 ,210 2 10 
1,314 I 

517 14 
1,657 8 

597 13 
789 9 

427 14 
1 ,297 5 4 
138 15 


............ 


375 


0 


[PARTII 


Rs. 


a . p . 


Rs. 


a . p . 


Rs. 1. p. 


Rs. 2.p. 


Szc.3(ii)] 


896 12 0 

229 14 3 
2 ,013 15 9 
2 , 503 10 

225 6 7 
4 , 300 8 3 

200 14 6 


27 ,264 5 

225 7 5 
1, 386 60 

867 2 I 
4 ,013 14 6 


310 14 6 
1 , 804 I 9 
1, 898 14 3 
2 , 302 4 6 
2 , 358 9 0 
2 ,669 20 
14 , 269 15 3 
1,498 OO 

764 14 3 
1 , 487 12 2 


7, 329 15 


6 


Political Science Society . 
Urdu Society . 
Urdu Magazine 
Zoological Society 
English Society 
Eaglish Magazine 
Dramatic Society 
Club & Society Establishment 
Literary Society 
Literary Reserve Fund 
Engg . Society . 
Engg . Magazine 
Engg. Degree Tour A C 
Polytechnic Society . 
Polytechnic Journal 
Polytechnic Instructional Tour 
Games Fee 
Games Reserve Fund . 
Union Account 
Union Reserve Fund , 
Riding School Reserve Fund 
Tibbi Society . . 
Tibbi Magazine . 
Tibbi Terminal Examination Fee 
Tibbi Library Fee 
Rafi Relief Society , 
Scholarship A / C 
Security Deposit . 
Duty Loan 
Club & Society A / C 
Reserve Fund Alc 
Suspense Aſc 
A . Rauf Scholarship 
Student s Deposit . . 


15,767 15 3 


2 ,252 10 5 

75 00 


92 IO 
289 00 
164 Oo 
19 OO 


оооо 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,18812597 


564 IO 
1,822 9 0 
24 ,978 14 3 
5, 760 Oo 
13,415 OO 
20 , 764 4 9 
14 , 721 2 6 

794 5 3 
1,500 OO 
11,023 OO 


(44) M . U . Boarding House Account General Belgace Sheet - contd . 


2598 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Rs, a . 


. 


Rs. 8 . p . 


Rs. a . 


p . 


Rs. . P . 

1, 992 I 0 
17,757 06 
12, 969 100 
30 , 541 14 3 
3 ,308 13 


Liabilities 
Non - College Account 
M . U , AC 
N . R . S. C . Hall AIC 
Kashmir Govt. Scholarship 
Cost of Teader Forms 
General Liveries Alc 
Prime Minister s National Fund 
Annual Fee 
3 % Security Loon . 
Mr. Said Ali s A / C 
M . U . Fund Account , 


184 30 
1640 
363 13 3 

I 15 0 
323 12 O 
151 06 


1,010 15 9 
92, 151 8 3 
3 ,32,490 2 11 


TOTAL 


, 


. 


TOTAL 


. 


. 


3 , 32,490 


2 II 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


( Sd ) A . RAUF , 

Horry . Assir. Treasurer , 

Muslim University , Aligarh , 


[PARTJI 


(45 ) Non -Resident Student Centre 
Retenue Account for the year ended 31st March , 1956 


Sec.3(ii)] 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. 4. p . 


Rs. 4. P . 


Rs. 2. p . 


Rs. . p . 


To Hall Reglenue diccmult 


By Hall Revenue Account 


Joint Staff Salary . . . 
Contingency 
Salaries including D . A . & P . F . 
Miscellaneous payments . . 
Liveries . 
Net surplus for the year carried 

over to Balance sheet . 


1, 345 6 H 

975 39 
8 .478 12 0 

77 00 
95 130 


Hall Admission Fee 
Hall Establishment Fee . 
Re-Admission Fee . . 
Late Payment Fee . 
Interest on Fixed Deposit . 
Excess in Cash 


4 ,730 00 
14 , 944 00 
2 , 730 0 0 

81900 
1,624 13 0 

1 2 0 


13,876 11 4 


TOTAL : 


: 


. 


24,848 15 


24,848 15 O 


TOTAL 


24, 848 15 0 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA1,1881 


(Sd.) A . RALF , 

Hony. Assh . Treasuret , 
Muslim University , Aligarh . 


2500 


(46 ) Non -Resident student catre 
General Balance Sheet as on 31 March , 1956 . 


2600 


EXPENDITT RE 


INCOME 


Rs. 2 , p . 


Rs. 4 . P . 


Caution Money and Deposit 


Rs. 2 . p . 
1, 19 , 582 00 


Student Current Account . 


, 


Rs. 2 . 
81 ,311 14 


p . 
3 


Hull surplus : 

As per last Balance Sheet 
Add surplus for the year 


54 , 825 OIL 
13 ,876 11 4 


68, 701 12 3 


Increased Tuition Fee 
Swiming bath Fee 
Electric Accessories 
Liabilities Account 


I 0 
6 II 0 
20 10 
7 , 547 96 
- - - - - - 


Outstanding Account 
Students Deposit Account 
Bank Charges & Commission 
Enrolment Fee 
Medical Fee 

Cash with M . U . B . House Hall Fund 
Purchase of B . Ed. Book ; 
Permanent Advance to Provost 
Fixed Deposit 
Cash Book Balance on 31- 3 - 56 . 


135 14 0 
17 , 202 2 3 

18 10 0 
980 13 0 

OSO 
30 ,541 14 3 
1 , 288 12 0 

3 , 000 0 0 
65, 000 0 
37 , 858 0 


AOOOwocowo 


- 


7 ,574 6 
8,795 4 


6 
6 


- 


24 ,656 6 1 

35 8 10 
ISI 14 6 
157 13 0 


Boarding House Reserve Fund 
Hall Reserve Fund 
Hall Games 
Identity Cards . 
Cost of Badges 
Hall fines 
Petty cash Account 
Games Fee 
Suspense Account 
Student Dead Account 
Hall Amenities , 
Sir Sayed Day Dinner 

TOTAL 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


138 


37 


SSRS 


00 


C 


1 , 741 
5 ,025 00 

48 80 
712 36 
105 0 0 


32, 684 13 10 


2 , 37 , 338 


5 


I 


TOTAL 


. 


. 


2 , 37, 338 


5 


1 


- 


( Sd .) A . RAUF , 

Huny. Asst. Treasurer, 
Muslim University , Aligarhı , 


- 


- 


--- 


[PARTII 


(17 ),Y . M . Hall Revenue Account 

Balance Sheet as on 31-3 -1956 . 


Sec 
. 
3 
( 
ii 
) 
] 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. a . p 


Rs, a . 


p . 


Rs. 2 . p . 


Rs. a . p . 


To Revenue Account : 


By Hall Revenue : 


Hostel Fee 
Hall Admission Fee . 
Miscellareous Income . 
Rent of Furniture 
Late Payment Fine . 
Hall Fines 
Interest 


54 , 245 2 0 
1,615 00 
1 ,036 8 3 

892 13 
825 9 
317 10 
124 13 0 


000OWoo 


B . House Establishment 
Electricity Account 
Rent 
Provost Office Establishment 
Miscellaneous Payment 
Conservancy 
Hall Games 
Printing & Binding 
Garden . 
Office Contingency 
B . H . General Requisites 
Awards to students 
Hall Amenities . . 
Telephone 
Liveries 
Welfare Fund (Subordinate Staf 
Bank Commission . 
Net surplus carried over to Balance 

TOTAL : , 


20 , 550 00 
10, 787 12 0 
7 ,756 50 
5 ,967 12 
4 , 967 12 7 
1, 600 00 
997 2 7 
493 
431 1 
403 3 3 
388 17 
260 00 
196 13 2 
80 0 0 
55 2 0 
SOO 

04 0 
3 ,612 05 


OOOONOOWoavoy 


THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
: 
SEPTEMBER 
26 
, 
1959 
/ 
ASVINA 
1 
, 
1881 
2601 


59,057 7 9 


TOTAL 


59,057 79 


( Sd .) A . RAUF, 

Hony . Asstt. Treasures , 
Muslim University , Aligarh . 


V .M 


Hall 


General Balance Sheet as on 31st March , 1956 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Rs. 2. 


p . 


Rs. 2. p . 


Rs. 2 . p . 


Rs. 2. p . 


64,133 100 


Students Deposit 
Hall Swoplus : 


23 ,723 15 
3 ,642 0 


9 
S 


Student Current Account 
Student Dead Account 
Food Fund August, 1948 
Col. Maqbool s Account 
Fixed Deposit 
Permanent Advance ( Provost 
Outstanding Account 
N . R . S . G . Account 
Advance 
Cost of Badge 
S . Bath 
Cash Book Balance on 31-3 - 56 


2602THEGAZETTEOFINDIA: SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


27,366 02 
13 , 334 00 
6 ,897 4 6 
4 , 000 0 0 
1 , 200 00 


84 ,497 7 10 
31 ,092 95 
10 , 938 14 
10 .235 
5 , 000 
3 ,000 0 
2 , 167 0 0 

428 3 3 
3 , 000 0 0 
63 9 o 

9 II 0 
4 , 575 14 11 


oooWoooocomo 


As per fast Balance Sheet . 
Add surplus for the year , 
M . U . Boarding 
B , H . Reserve Fund . 
Sir Sulaiman Hall 
Contribution to Cooservancy 
Medical Fee 
University Tuition Fee 
University Admission Fee 
Anti Malaria Fee 
Enhanced Tuition Fee 
Increased Tuition Fee 
University Enrolment Fee , 
Chemistry Breakage . 
Terminal Examination Fee . 
Medical Examination Fee 
Medical Check up 
Islamic Week . 
Library Admission Fee 
Medical Drug . . 
Proctorial Fine 
Phsysic Contingency . 
Business Training Fee 
Class Fine 


3 , 972 
3 , 2400 
1 , 1399 

964 
826 
721 
532 14 
405 3 
372 7 
223 13 


OOOOOooowoOwona 


- 


81 


NON-GOOD 


- 


:-- 


[PARTII 


. 


V . M . Hall 
General Balimce Sheet as on 31st March , 1956 


Suc.3(1)] 


LIABILITIES 


ASEETS 


12 , 786 


8 11 


Physics Fund 
Hall Reserve Fund . 
Food Fund 
Glass Panes 
Cost of Identity Cards 
Chick Account . 
Coupon Acount 
Self Help , . 
Welfare Fund (Subordinare Staff ) : 

TOTAL . . 


IIS 0 
14 ,923 5 9 
6 , 301 8 
509 59 
322 11 C 
109 6 0 
29 30 
600 
38000 


ovavo 


22, 581 II 0 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


1, 52 ,299 


2 


7 


TOTAL 


1,52 ,299 


2 


7 


um 


(Sd .) A . RAUF 

Horn . Asstt . Treasurer , 
Muslim University, Aligarh . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881260, 


( g) Sir Suteman Hail 
Revenue Account Balance Sheet as on 31st March , 1956 . 


- 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. 8 . P . 


Rs. 2 . p . 


Rs. . p . 


By Revenue Account : 

Hostel Fee 
Hall Admission Fee 
Interest on Fixed Deposit 
Hall Fines 


87, 330 40 
1,830 00 
1 , 218 9 0 
146 4 0 


To Revenue Account : 

B . H . Servants Pay . 
Rent 
Electricity Charges 
Provost Office Salary . 
Hall Amenities . 
Hall Games 
Cotribution to Conservancy 
B . H .G .Requisites 
B . House Establishment 
Welfare Fund (Subordinating Staff 
Joint Staff Salary , 
Printing and Binding , 
Office Contingency 
Maintenance ofGarden 
Liveries 
Test Examination Fee 
Telephone 
Exchange and Commission 
Net Surplus for the year carried over 

to Balance Sheet . . 


Rs. 2 . p. 
27, 118 80 
14, 666 11 0 
9 , 284 5 
6 ,232 7 
5 , 506 14 2 
3,324 8 
1, 200 
1,014 
794 14 
7250 
667 II 
SIO 3 
281 12 
180 3 
173 10 
129 12 
40 0 


MONOOOOo 
+ 
6000000 


2604THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


18,671 80 


TOTAL 


90,525 IO 


TOTAL 


90 ,525 


I 


0 


(Sd.) A . RAUF, 

Hony. Asstt . Treasurer , 
Muslim University , Aligach . 


[PARTII 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. 


a . 


p . 


Rs. 2 . p . 
1 ,31,463 S II 
55 ,000 0 0 
10 , 000 00 
6 , 563 15 0 


o 


4 , 000 
3 ,000 


(50 ) Str Suleman Hall 
General Balance Sheei as on 31 - 3- 1996 

ASSETS 
Rs. a . p . Rs. a , p , 

90 . 780 8 of Students Current Account 

Fixed Deposit 
39 , 637 9 2 

Lt. Col. Maqabool s Account 
18 ,651 8 0 58, 309 I 2 Outstanding 

14 , 189 5 8 V . M . Hall 
12 , 334 5 3 Permanent Advance 
6 , 158 12 9 Food Fund (1947 -48 ) 

2 . 889 15 2 University Games 
28,084 40 

Petty Cash Account 
10 ,253 30 

Other Fines . 
2 , 261 12 0 

Cost of Badges 
1 ,862 6 

Enrolment Fee 
1 ,630 12 

Cash Book Balance on 31 - 3 - 1956 
769 0 
323 10 
166 90 
100 130 
19 30 


OOOOOOOOOO 


, 


I 2 
30 , 930 IS 


O 
I 


10 


- Sac.3(ii)]--------- 

THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


Students Deposit . . 
Hall Surplus : 

As per last Balance Sheet 
Add surplus for the year 
Hal] Reserve Fund , 
Liabilities , . 
B . House Reserve Fund 
Student Dead Account 
M . U . B , House 
Engg. Tuition Fee . 
Increased Tution Fee 
Tour Expenses 
University Tuition Fee . 
Medical Fee 
Enhanced Tuition Fee . 
Anti- Malaria Fee . 
Cost of Breakage 
Lytton Library Admission Fee 
Proctorial Fines 
Promotion Examination Fee 
Physics Apparatus . 
Law Society , 
Food Fund 
Glass Panes 
Subordinate Staff Welfare Fund 
M . U . Boarding House (Advance ) 
Badminton . 
Identity Cards . 
Purchase of B . T . Book . 
Engineering Society . 
ImprestMoney 
Labs, Account 
Hall Library Book . 
Contribution to Amid Hostel 
Price of Kits . . . 

TOTAL 
( Sd .) A RAUF , 
Hony. Asstt. Treasurer , 

Muslim University, Aligarh , 


51 


000000000000omawoooOOOOW000000000 


45,491 126 


5 ,370 69 
2 ,012 4 6 
2 ,438 
1 , 300 130 

348 00 
259 30 


12 ,238 9 
2 , 42 , 383 5 


3 
9 


TOTAL 


. 


- 


2 ,42 , 385 


S 


9 


2605 


(51) Sir Syed Hall Revenue Account 

Asat 31st March , 1956 


EXPENDITT RE 


INCOME 


Rs. 


2 . p . 


Rs. 2 . p . 


Rs. 


2 . 


p . 


Rs. 


2 . p . 


O 


1 , 874 13 
2 , 270 0 

ISO 
91, 022 2 
1,054 0 

121 0 
1 ,995 6 

560 0 


MOONO 


00000000 


To Hall Revenue Account: 

Provost Office Establishment 
Hall Amenities 
Subordinate Staff Salary 
Hostel Rent Paid to University 
Water Supply , 
Bank Commission 
B . H . G . R . 
Electric Charges 
Contingency 
Printing and Binding 
Unforeseen Expenses 
Conservancy 
Garden and Play Ground 
Liveries 
Telephone 
Joint Staff Salary 
Cost of locks 
Games 
Visiting Team , 
Welfare Fund 
Miscellaneous Payments 
Net Surplus carried over to 

balance Sheet . . 


By Hall Retenue : 
8 , 376 120 lätetest on Fixed Deposit 
3 , 865 13 6 Hall admission fee 
21, 633 5 9 Re - Admissions fee 
10 ,237 4 0 Hostel fee . 
986 14 3 Hall Fines 

30 40 Late Payment fines 
787 10 3 Blazer 
11, 808 108 Miscellaneous Income 
643 7 3 
790 4 6 
406 6 3 
3 , 000 0 0 
938 15 0 
1309 
393 
677 

50 
505 13 4 
264 15 6 

500 00 
18 ,098 13 0 
14 ,830 II 5 
98 ,912 56 

TOTAL 


2606THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASYINAA,1881 


MOOOONOTO 


TOTAL 


. 


98 ,912 


5 


6 


Sd .) A RAUF , 
Hony . Asstt. Treasurer, 

Muslim University , Aligarh , 


[PartII 


(52 ) Sir Sayed Hall 
General Balance Sheet as at 31 -3 - 1956 


SC.3(ii)] 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Rs. 
88 , 143 


2, 
7 


P . 
0 


Rs. 


2. 


P 


Rs. 4 . p . 
1 , 46 , 114 9 3 

53 ,581 79 
15,000 0 
1, 860 


1,01,261 7 II 


140 


0 


Student current cocowit . 
Student Dead Account . 
Lt. Col. Maqbool s Account 
Investments in G . P . Notes 
Law Society 
Advance to Staff 
D . P . Cash 
Joint Staff 
Advance to ProvosĽS 
Imprest Advance 
Fixed Deposit 
Identity Cards 
Cash Book Balance as on 31 - 3 - 1956 


168 


maoomOONOOoon 


64 


3 , 000 

200 0 
75 , 000 0 0 

25 12 0 
19 , 719 95 


Rs. a . p . 
Student Deposit 
Hall Sw plus : 
As per last Balance Sheet 

86 , 430 126 
Add surplus for the year 

14 ,830 I 5 
B . House Reserve Fund 

16 , 108 99 
University Tuition Fee . 

6 , 887 16 
Enhanced Tuition Fee 

1 ,613 13 3 
Increased Tuition Fee 

2 , 098 8 6 
Business Training Fee 

77 4 0 
Medical fee (old Balance ) 

958 40 
Medical fee ( 1953 - 55 ) 

1234 
Anti Malaria Fee 

204 3 
Terminal Examination fee Science 

489 9 
Lytton Library Books 

30 II 0 
Library Fines . 

34 20 
Replacement of Apparatus 

21 20 
Geology Account 

6 l 6 
Uruu Seminar 

II 8 6 
Hall Reserve Fund . 
Scholarship Account 
Dinning Hall Reserve Fund 
Chick Account 

464 8 9 
Railway Concession 

306 13 9 
Food Fund 

17 , 224 24 
Kitchen Establishmnt 

17 ,857 O 10 
Cashiers Security . 

100 8 6 
Glass Panes 

2 ,030 10 3 
Welfare Fund 

450 00 
Poor Boys Fund 

250 8 0 
Medical Fee . 

222 10 
Cost of Books 

SIO O 
Rafi Relief Fund 

14 0 
TOTAL 

__ . 3 ,14 ,899 3 10 
(Sd .) A . RAUF , 
Homy. Asstt Treasser , 

Muslim University , Aligarh , 


28 ,663 12 9 
48 ,789 15 3 
2 , 446 12 0 
6 ,674 96 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,18812607 


38 . 919 


3 


5 


3 , 14 ,899 


3 IC 


- 


- 


- 


(53) Aftab Hall Revenue Account Balance Sheet 

For the year ended 31st March , 1956 


2608 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. 


2. 


p . 


Rs. 


2. 


p . 


Rs. a . p . 


7 . Hall Revenue Account 

Excharge & Commission 
Provost Office Establishment 
Provident Fund Contribution 
B . House Establishment 
Dez [ress Allowance 
Joint Staff Salary 
Continger. cy 
B . H . General Requisites 
Printirg & Binding . 
Telephone Account 
Conservancy 
Water Supply 
Room Rent 
Hall Games 
Liveries 
Miscellaneous Payments 
Hall amounts 
To Hell Surplus for year 


mer 


Rs. 2. P . 

By Hull Revenue Account : 
9 120 Hall Admission Fee 
5 .238 90 Fines 

300 90 Late Payment Fines 
7 , 275 9 3 Excess in Cash 
12 ,403 0 Hostel Fee 

672 II 6 Interest on Fixed Deposit 

287 9 Heater Charges 
1, 537 2 9 Electricity Charges . 
753 10 

Unforeseen Expenses 
40 o 
3 , 0000 
1 , 741 II 
6 ,250 0 
1 .857 II 

90 12 0 
4 ,824 00 

753 2 1 
26.713 6 1 

- -- - - - - - 
73, 754 3 10 

TOTAL 


1 ,690 00 

II 0 0 
442 0 0 

1 0 0 
64, 700 1 

749 13 0 

36 00 
6 , 123 14 IC 

0 7 0 


monoamoOOOOO 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


739754 


3 10 


TOTAL 
- - - - - - - - 
( Sd .1 A RAUF , 
Huny Asstt. Treasurer , 

Muslim University, Aligarh , 


[Part 


(54 ) Aftab Hali 


General Balance Sheet as on 31 -3 - 1956 . 


Sec.$(it)] 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


2. p. 


Rs. 


2. P . 


Rs. 


2. p . 


. 


Caution Money and Deposit 
Hall Surplus 
As per LastBalance Sheet 
Add surplus for the year 


1 ,68 , 158 14 

26 , 282 3 


% 
2 


27 , 272 
26 ,713 


3 .0 
6 1 


3 , 000 00 


1,222 13 


Rs. 2. p . 
64, 396 69 Students Current Account 

Sdudents Dead Account . 

Advance to Proyost 
53 ,785 91 Duty Loan 
39 .368 9 10 Law Society 

Welfare Relief Fund 
Advance to Staff 
Fixed Deposit 
Advance (Imprest Money ) 
Cash Brok Balance as On 31 - 3 - 56 


1, 595 


3 13 
188 g 

78 15 
30 ,000 0 

180 0 
25 ,064 12 


9 
0 


7 , 808 
1,694 


158 


643 5 

368 9 
5 ,687 9 
4 , 883 6 
1 , 748 10 

130 11 
480 8 


B . House Reserve Fund 
Lytton Library Books 
University Admission Fee 
Medical Fee 
Anti-Malaria Fee 
Lytton Library Admission Fee 
University Enrolment Fee : 
Terminal Examination Fee 
University Tuition Fee 
Enhanced Tuition Fee 
Increased Tuition Fee 
Business Train rg Tuition Fee 
Chemistry Breakage 
Badminton Club 
Medical Examination Fee . 
Medical Checkup . 
U . O . T . C . Account 
Other Fines - 
Fines for Training College . 
Glass Panes . 
University Magazine 
Literary Society . 
Proctorial Fine 
University Games Fee 
Paysics Contingency 
Rent of Aftah Hall . 
Food Fund . . 


bucoENO OOOOOOOOOONONOVODOOwvolorow 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


898 
66 9 


. 


10 90 
6 ,727 7 0 
7 ,004 13 


29 ,316 14 1 


2609 


( 54 ) Aftab Hell Generd Balance Sheet -(Conid .) 


2610 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Rs. 4 


p . 


Rs. a . p . 


Rs. a . 


D . 


Rs. a . p . 


Kitchen Estabishment 
Glass Panes 
Hall Reserve Fund 
Chick Account 
Hall Library Fine . 
Geography Deposit 
Sinking Fund . 
B . Ed . Books . . . 
Hire of Furniture 
Aftab Hostel Rent 
Advance 


33 ,393 30 

1 ,485 6 6 
. 10 , 777 13 3 

437 6 
383 10 

149 0 
7 ,631 6 5 


000Mocowao 


- 


85 00 


10 130 
1 , 354 00 
4 , 000 0 0 


67 ,012 7 11 
2,54 ,080 05 


TOTAL 


. 


2 ,54 ,080 05 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


(Sd ) A . Raur, 
Hony Asstt . Treasurer . 

Muslim University , Aligarh , 


[PARTII 


(55 ) Women s Hall Revenge Account 

Balance Sheet as on 3151 March , 1956 


Sec.3(ü)] 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOMB 


Rs, 2 . 


p . 


Rs. 


& 


P . 


Rs. 2. p . 


Rs. 2 . p . 


To Hall Revenue Account 


By Hall Revenue 


Hall Admission fee . . 
Hall Establishment fee 
Furniture -Rent . 
Late payment fine 
Miscelaneous . 
Government Grant . 


1 , 325 00 
5 ,610 00 
1 ,567 0 0 


3 , 661 00 
3 , 191 I 0 

218 50 
1,013 4 0 
307 106 

55 
225 T 

96 0 
IOZ 
395 2 6 
193 90 


Salaries 
D . Allowance , 
Contingency . . 
General Requisites 
Printing Charges . 
Up Keep of garden . 
Purchase of cycle 
Conservancy . 
Miscellaneous . . 
Furniture 
Welfare Fund . 
Net surplus carried over to Balance 
Sheet 

TOTAL . . 


69 12 0 
2 , 000 00 


1, 118 I0 


10 ,577 OO 


TOTAL 


. 


. 


10 ,577 00 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA1,18812611 


(Sd). A . RALF, 
Hony , Assistant Treasurer , 

Muslim University Aligarh . 


( 56 ) Women s Hall 
General Balance Sheet om at 31st March , 1956 . 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Rs. 2. p . 


Rs. 1 . p . 


Rs. a . p . 


Hall Surplus 


Deposit B . Ed , Books 


522 
1, 118 


8 
1 


0 
0 


Electricity 
Library College , 
Science Club . 
Society Fund AC 
Society D . Science 
Examination Fee 
Examination Part I 
Students Accounts 
Cash Book Balance 


Rs. a. p . 

48 100 
956 10 6 

2 8 
51 1 
I56 12 

190 
110 0 


NWOOoonoa 


- 


3 ,797 
44,239 10 


As per last balance sheet . 
Add surplus for the year 
Kitchen Establishment 
Examination School 
Examination College 
Art and Craft School 
Col. Haider M . Fund 
Caution Money 
Breakage Ophthalmology 
Deposits Lib . Books 
Deposits Science . 
Food Fund , . 
Games School , 
Games College 
Ink School 
Magazine College 
Milad Sharif . - 
Magazine High School 
Medical Fee : 
Old Girl s Association 
Poor Student Fund School 
Poor Student College . 
Reserve Fund . 
Room Rent School 
Social Club . . 
Social Furniture 
Social Service league 
Societies 
Society Education , 
Society Geog. 


2 ,348 


1 ,640 90 
1 ,094 12 0 

312 8 6 
550 10 

59 20 
1 ,005 8 
4 ,684 8 

so o 
1 , 505 00 
2 ,055 6 
2 ,252 13 0 
2 ,243 

279 
1,023 
668 
IO2 
30 o 
44900 
581 
215 II 

40 
4 ,499 

122 0 
776 14 

257 8 
1 ,085 09 
SI2 0 
596 10 
643 II 


2612THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


oowoooooooooooWOO000000000 


Music 


ܬܩܚܗܘܘܘܬܩܩܫܘܣܘܘ6ܗ 


[PAHTII 


Sec.$(11)| 


Society Hist. & Pol. . 
Society Hindi 
Society Urdu & Persian 
Suspense . . 
Scholarship 
Scholarship H . School 
T . Fee Tibbia College 
Students Welfare Fund 
Union Fee College 
Society English - 
Wasbing charges . 
H . Programme fee . 
Tib . College Games 
Donation by Chancellor 
Breakage charges 
Rafi Relief Fund . 
Security (Contractor ) 
Fine University . 
Jubilee 


413 6 3 
529 IO o 
1,079 14 6 
780 40 
345 0 0 

8 0 

500 
6 ,016 4 0 

846 15 
1 ,093 15 3 
1453 10 O 
87 0 

6 oo 
1, 500 00 

30 o 
112 8 0 
1, 500 OO 

300 
1, 864 00 


Un 


TOTAL 


49, 386 10 5 


TOTAL . 


. 


. 


. 


49 ,386 10 5 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,18812613 


(SA ) A . RALF , 
Hony, Assistant Treasurer 

Muslim University Aligarh , 


[No . 10475 Ex.)] 


(Sd .) ILLEGIRLES 
Assistant Registrar . 


afid THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1989 /AMINA 4, 1881 


[PART 11 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

New Delhi, the 21st September 1959 
S . O . 2114 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - clause ( xi) 01 
clause ( a ) of Section 2 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, ( 10 of 1955 ) and 
in supersession of the Government of India , Ministry of Commerce and Consumer 
Industries Notification No. S . R . O . 3152 dated the 19th December 1956 , the Central 
Government hereby declares 


(1) textileg made from silk , 
( 1 ) textiles made wholly or in part from man -made cellulosic and non 

cellulosic spun fibres, and 
( iii ) textiles made wholly or in part from man -made cellulosic and non 

cellulosic Alament yarns 
to be essential commodities for the purposes of that Act, 

[No. 23 ( 3 ) Tex ( D ) / 59. ] 
8 . 0 . 2115 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendments in the Textiles ( Production by Powerloom ) Con 
trol Order , 1956 , namely : 

In the said Order 

I. In sub - clause ( a ) of clause 2 , for the words " artificial silk yarn or staple 
Abre " the words " or man -made cellulosic or non - cellulosic spun Abre yarn or 
such Alament yarn or gilk yarn " shall be substituted . 
II. After clause 3 , the following clause shall be inserted , namely : 
" 3A . The owner of every existing powerloom working on silk yarn on or 

after the date on which this order came into force, shall within sixty 
days from the date of this notification or such further period not 
exceeding ninety days, as the Textile Commissioner may allow , apply 
in form " A " to the Textile Commissioner, for the grant of a registra 

tion certificate, for each such powerloom " . 
III. In clause 6A , in Explanation I, for the words " woollen yarn , artificial silk 
yarn or staple flbre yarn " , the words " woollen yarn , man -made cellulosic or non 
cellulosic spun fibre yarn , such filament yarn or silk yarn " , shall be substituted . 

IV . In clause 7 , for the words " artificial silk yarn or staple fibre yarn " , wher 
ever they occur, the words " Or man -made cellulosic or non - cellulosic spun Abre 
yarn or such filament yarn , or silk yarn " , shall be substituted . 
V . In Form Am 
(i ) in the heading , for the words " artificial silk yarn or staple Abre yarn " , 

the words " or man -made cellulosic or non - cellulosic spun Abre yarn 

or such filament yarn or silk yarn " shall be substituted . 
(ii) in item 3 , for items ( ii) and ( ii ) the following items shall be substitut 

ed , namely : 
" ( ii ) Man -made cellulosic spun fibre yarn , 
(ili) Man -made non - cellulosic spun fibre yarn , 
( iv ) Man -made cellulosic Alament yarn , 
( v ) Man -made non -cellulosic filament yarn , 

( vi) Silk yarn . 
(iii) In the Note at the end, for the words " artificial silk yarn and staple 

fibre yarn " , the words " man -made cellulosic and non - cellulosic gpun 

fibre yarn , such filament yarn and silk yarn " , shall be substituted . 
VI, In Form B , for the items , 

" ( ii) Artificial silk yarn 

( iii) Staple Fibre yarn - " 
the following items shall be substituted , namely : 

( ii ) Man -made cellulosic spun Abre - yarn 
(ill ) Man -made non - cellulosic spun fibre yarn 


(i) in the words ament yar 


fibre vor 


Sec. 3 ( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26, 1959/ ASVINA 4, 1881 


2615 


= 


- 


- = 


- 


- 


= 


- .. 


( iv ) Man -made cellulosic Alament yarn 
( v ) Man -made non - cellulosic filament yarn 

( vi) Silk yarn . 
VII. In form C , for the figures and words-- 
" 2 . Artificial Silk yarn 

3. Staple fibre yarn — " 
the following shall be substituted , namely : 

" 2 . Man -made cellulosic spun fibre yarn , 
3 . Man -made non - cellulosic spun fibre yarn , 
4 , Man -madę cellulosic Alament yarn , 
5 . Man -made non - cellulosic Alament yarn , 
6 . Silk yarn " . 

[No. 23 ( 3 ) Tex ( D ) / 59. ] 
M , S . SADASIVAN , Under Secy . 


CORRIGENDUM 


New Delhi, the 22nd September 1959 
S . O . 2116 . - In the Ministry of Commerce and Industry Order S . O . 1607 , dated 
the 7th July 1959, published in the Gazette of India , Part II - Section 3 , sub -section 
( ii) , dated the 18th July , 1959 :- - 
For “ 15 . Shri P . M . Nabar , Officer " consumers " " do" . 

on Special Duty , Central 
Indian Medicinal Plants , 

New Delhi. 
Read " 15 . Shri P . M . Nabar , Officer 

" consumers " 

" do " . 
in - charge , Central Indian 
Medicinal Plants Organisa 
tion , Council of Scientific & 
Industrial Research , Old Mill 
Road , New Delhi. 

[No. 4 ( 2) IA (II ) (G ) / 59.) 
A . K . CHAKRAVARTI , Under Secy , 


(Department of Company Law Administration ) 

COST ACCOUNTANTS 

New Delhi, the 18th September 1959 
$ . 0 . 2117 . - In pursuance of clause ( h ) of Regulation 2 of the Cost & Works 
Accountants Regulations, 1959, the Central Government hereby recognises the 
following Universities for the purposes of the said clause , namely : 

University in Burma 
The University of Rangoon . 

English and Welsh Universities 
The Universities of Birmingham , Bristol, Cambridge, Durham , Lecds, Liver 
pool, London , Manchester, Oxford , Reading , Sheffield and Wales. 

Scottish Universities 
The Universities of Aberdeen , Edinburgh, Glasgow and St. Andrews. 

Irish Universities 
The University of Dublin ( Trinity College ) . 
The National University of Dublin . 
The Queen s University, Belfast. 


2616 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA SEPTEMBER 26, 1969/ ASVINA 4, 1881 


[PART II 


- - 


- 


- - - 


Universities in Pakistan 
The University of Punjab . 
The Dacca University 
The University of Sind 
The Rajshahi University 


[ No 10 ( 27) Inst 59.] 


New Delhi, the 19th September, 1959 
S . O . 2118 .- In pursuance of clause ( b ) of regulation 20 of the Cost and 
Works Accountants Regulations, 1959, the Central Government is pleased to 
recognise the following examinations as equivalent to thc Intermediate Examina 
tion of a University as defined in clause ( h ) of regulation 2 of the Regulations, 
namely - 
1 The Intermediate examination of a Board of Intermediate Examination 

in India established by a Government Resolution , 
2 A pass in the First Y car cxamination of the Three year degree course of 

any Indian University which offers the Thrce - year Degree Course . 
3 . The Final Examination of the Government Commercial Institutc , 

Calcutta 
4 . A pass in thc pre professional and pre - enginccring courses of one year 

duration after Higher Secondary / pre - university stage 
5 . The Cambridge Higher School Certificate examination 
6 . The Higher Oxford Certificate Examination with a combination of sub 

jects considered by the Academic Council to be cquivalent to that 
prescribed for the Intermediate Arts and Science Examinations of 

the Nagpur University 
7 The Commercial Diploma Examination of the Board of High School and 

Intermediate Education , Uttar Pradesh 
& The Diploma in Commerce awarded by the late Government Commercial 

Institute , Delhi. 
9 . The Degree Examination of Shrecmatı Nathibai Damodar Thackersey 

Indian Women University, Bombay 
10 . Diploma of the Government Commercial Examinations of Calcutta , Delhi, 

Madras and Bombay 
11 The Diploma Examination in Secretarial Practice of the Gauhati Univer 

sity 
12 Jamia Senior Examination of Jamia Millia Islamia , Delhi 
13 Madhyama awarded by the Gujrat Vidyapith , Ahmedabad 
14 . Successful complction of two years course at the Joint Services Wing 
of the National Defence Academy 

[No 10 ( 26 )- Inst /59 ] 
TS MENON , Under Secy 


( Department of Company Law Administration ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 17th September 1959 
S . O . 2119 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Commission 
of Inquiry Act (No 60 of 1952) the Central Government hereby extends upto the 
end of September , 1960 , the period of time within which the Commission of 
Inquiry appointed by the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance , 
Department of Economic Affairs by notification being SRO 2993 dated the 11th 
December, 1956 , as amended by the subsequent notification being SRO , 464 dated 
the 11th February , 1957, shall inquire into the matters specified in the notification 
first mentioned above and report to the Central Government 

ORDERED that the Order be published in the Gazette of India for public 
information 

[No F 16 ( 16 ) - Admn / 58 ] 
D . L . MAZUMDAR , Secy 


SŁO . 3 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 /ASVINA 4 , 1881 2617 
- - -- - - - - 

= - 
( Indian Standards Institution ) 

New Delhi, the 17th September 1959 
S . O . 2110 - In pursuance of sub - regulations ( 2 ) and (3 ) of regulation 3 of the Indian Standards 
Insulution (Certification Marks) Regulations , 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution liereby 
notifics that the Indian Standards , particulary of which are given in the Schedule hereto Annexed , 
have been established during the period 16th Aigist tu 15th September , 1959 . 

Tre SCHEDULE 


DU LL 


Brief Particulars 


SI. No, and title of the Indian No . and title of the Indian Standard 
No . Standard established or Standards, if any , super 

scded by the new Indian 

Standard 


- 


I 


IS : 902- 1959 Specificativ 1 

for Suction Hose Cour 
lings for Fire Fighti g 
Purposes , 


This standard lays down the 

requirements regarding me . 
terial, shape and dimensions, 
construction , workmanship 
and tents of suction hose 
couplings used in firc fight 
ing operations ( Price 
Rs. 1 : 50 ) . 


2 


IS : 924 - 1959 Specifica 

tion for Bread Knives . 


This standard covers the re 
quirements of bread knives 
(Price Rs. I 50 ) . 


3 


IS : 1140 - 1959 Specifica - 

tion for Logs forMatches, 


This standard covers the nini . 
mum requirements for logs 
of different species for use in 
the manufacture of match 
hoxes and splints , (Price 
Rs, 1. 50) . 


4 


IS : 1291- 1958 Specifica 
tion for Cattle Licks (Plain 
and Mineralized ). 


This standard prescribes the 

requirements and the me 
thods of test for cattle licks 
(plain and mineralized ) com 
mercially known as salt licks, 
for animal consumption 
(Price Rs. 1 : 50 ) . 


5 IS : 1330 - 1958 General 

Plan for Metric Screw 
Threals wich ISO Profile 
( Diameter Range 0 . 25 to 
300 mm ). 


This standard deals with the 

general plan for metric screw 
threads with ISO profile , for 
the diameter range 0 . 25 to 
300 min (Price Rs, 1 . 50 ) . 


6 IS : 1304- 1958 Glossary of 

Terms Used in Fertilizer 
Trade and Industry . 


This standard defines the 

Terms widely used in the 
Indian fertilizer tride and 
industry ( Price Rs. 1 50 ) . 


- - - 


- 


- 


Copies of these Indian Standards are ayailable for sale with the Indian Standards Institution , 
" Manak Bhavan " , 9 Afathura Road , New Delhi- I, and also at its Branch Offices at (1) Gercral 
Assurance Building, 232 Dr. Hajabhuy Navroji Road , Fort Bombay - 1 , il) P - 11 Mission Rcw 
Extcnsion , Calcutta - 1, and ( iii) 2 / 21 First Line Bcach , Madras - 1 , 


No. MDC/11(4 )] 


C . N . MODAWAL , 
Deputy Director (Marks) 


2018 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26, 1959 /ASVINA 4, 1881 


[PART II 


MINISTRY OF STEEL , MINES & FUEL 

(Department of Mines & Fuel) 

New Delhi, the 15th September 1959 
S . O . 2121 Whereas it appears to the Central Government that coal is likely 
to be obtained from the lands mentioned in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 4 of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957 ( 20 
of 1957 ) , the Central Government hereby gives notice of its intention to prospect 
for coal therein . 

SCHEDULE 


Plan No . HQ / LA / 69 / 59. 


Jharia - Block 


s1. 


Village 


Thana 


Thara 


District 


Area 


Remarks 


No, 


I. 


Bherakata 


Jharia 


141 


. Dhanbad . 


Part . 


425 Bighas 
(apptoxi 
mate) 
140 . 5 Acres 
(approxi 
mate ) 


or 


Total : or 


425 Bighas ( Approximate ) 
140 . 5 Acres 


Boundary Description : 
ABC line passes along common boundary of villages Patharakuti and 

Bherakata , 
CD line passes through Plot No. 108 ( Bherakata village ) . 
DEF line passes through common boundary of village Bherakata and Dobari. 
FGHIJK line passes along North - Eastern boundary of Upper Jharia Colliery , 
KA line passes along Eastern side boundary of Barki Juria . 


The Plan of the area covered by this notifcation can be inspected at the office 
of the National Coal Development Corporation Ltd . ( Revenue Section ) , Darbhan a 
House , Ranchi or at office of the Deputy Commissioner , Dhanbad . 

[ No. C2-24 (2) /59.] 


New Delhi, the 19th September 1959 
s . O 2122 Whereas by the notification of the Government of India in the 
Department of Mines and Fuel (Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel) S . O . No. 547, 
dated 8th April, 1958 under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 4 of the Coal Bearing Areas 
( Acquisition and Development) Act , 1957 ( 20 of 1957 ) , the Central Government 
gave notice of its intention to prospect for coal in the lands in the locality specifi 
ed in the Schedule appended to that notification ; 

And whercas the Central Government is satisfied that coal is obtainable in 
the whole or any part of the said lands; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section in of the said Act, the Central Government hereby gives notice of its 
intention to acquire 
( a ) the lands measuring 510 - 04 acres described in Schedule A appended 

hereto ; 
( b ) the rights to mine, quarry, bore , dig and search for , win , work and 

carry away minerals in the lands measuring 334 - 20 acres described 
in Schedule B appended hereto . 


SEC. 3 ( ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 / ASVINA 4 , 1881 2619 
- - - 

- 
The plans of the area covered by this notification may be inspected in the 
office of the Collector, Surguja ( M . P .) or in the office of the Coal Controller , 
1, Council House Strcet , Calcutta or in the office of the National Coal Develop 
ment Corporation Ltd . (Revenue Section ), Darbhanga House , Ranchi. 


Any person interested in the aforesaid land may within 30 days of the issue 
of this notification , Ale objection to the acquisition of the whole or any part 
of the lands of any rights in or over such lands to the Coal Controller , 1 , Council 
House Street, Calcutta . 


SCHEDULE A 


Bishrampur Coalfield . 

Block (" . 


Drawing No. Rev / 25 / 59 
(Showing lands to be acquired ) 


BLOCK I 


All rights - - - - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


Thana 


rhana 


No. 


District 


Arca 


Remarks 


Name of Village 

- - 


- - - 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


In 


Acres 


Part 


Part 


1 . Jayanagar 

Javnagar 
2 . Tilaikaçhhar . Jayanagar 
3 . Sashirur alias Jayanagar 

Tharmunda 
4 . Reserve Forest Jayanagui 


88 Surguja 
89 Surguja 
77 Surguja 


243 78 
66 . 02 
16 .01 


Part 


Part 


. . Surguja 


184 . 23 


Part 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


Total 


510 04 (Approximate ) 
- - - 


- - 


- - 


- - - - 


- 


Ploty to he acquiicd : 
In village Tavanagar : 


I ( Part ), 2 10 13 , 14 (Part) , 15 (Part), 18 (Part), 20 (Part) , 
45(Part). 46 (Part), 47, 48, 49( Part), 5o (Part ), 80 ( Part ), 
T29 ( Part), 130 ( Part ), 131 (Part ) , 132 (Part), 133 (Pait), 
134 ( Part), 268 (Part), 269 (Part ), 270 (Part), 
272 (Part ), 273 to 293 , 294 (Part ), 295 (Part ), 297 
(Part), 300 ( Part ), 301 ( Part ) , 302 , 303 , 304 (Part), 
305 (Part ), 306 (Part), 307 to 310 , 311 (Part ) 313 (Part ), 
317 ( Part), 318 , 319 ( Part ), 335 (Part), 336 , 337 , 
338 (Part ), 339 (Part), 340 (Part ), 347 (Part) , 
348 , 349, 350 (Part) , 351 to 402 , 403 (Part ), 404 to 411 
412 ( Part) , 413 ( Part ), 420 (Part), 422 ( Part), 423 (Part ), 
424 (Past) , 425 , 426 ( Part), 427 ( Part), 435 (Part) , 
436 to 445 , 446 ( Part ), 447 ( Part), 448 ( Part ), 454 (Part), 
1688 , 


In village Tilakachhar 

2 (Part), ir (Part), 20 (Part ), 21, 22 (Part), 23 (Part ), 

24 , 25 , 26 , 27 (Part ), 28 , 29, 30 , 31 (Part ), 32 (Part ), 
33 (Part ), 36 ( Part), 37 (Part ), 38 (Part ), 39 (Part ), 
49 (Part ), 43 (Part), 44 , 45 (Part ), 73 (Part ), 
75 (Part ), 76 (Part ), 77 (Part ), 78 to 81, 82 ( Part ), 
83 (Part) , 84 ( Part ), 85 (Part ), 108 ( Part), 109 (Part) , 
110 , III ( Part), 112 , 113 (Part ), 114 (Part), 115 (Part) , 
ITO (Part) , 120 to 123 , 124 ( Part) , 125 , 126 (Part ), 

127 (Part), 129 (Part ), 1537 (Part ). 
In village Sashipur alus Tharmunda 2 (Par.t), 38 (Part), 103 (Part ), 104 (Part), 105, 106, 10 , 

(Part), 


2620 THE GAZET I E OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 / ASVINA 4 , 1881 


[PART II 


In Reserve Forest : 

Part. 
Boundury dcscriprion : 
AB line passes through Reserve Forest and I?! No 427, 426 , 474, 4.23, 422 , 420 in. 
village Jayanagar . 

BC line is the common boundary of Mining Block . 

CDEFGH linc passes through the Plot No. 103 , 104 , 107 Vi village Sashiplis alias Thar 
munda , 

124 , 129, 126 , 127, 119 , 113 , 114, 115 , 108 , 109, 85, 84 , 

13 . 82 , 83, 76 , - 5 , 77 , 73, 45 , 1537 in village Tilat 

kuchhar. 
454 , 446 , 447 , 445 , 347 , 350, 340 , 339 , 338 , 335 , 311, 

313 , 317 , 319 , 306 , 305, 304 , 301, 300 , 294 , 297, 295 , 
272 , 270 , 269 , 268 , 403, 134 , 133, 132, 131 , 130 , 129 , 
80 , I , 50 , 49 , 45 , 46 , 15 , 14 , 18 , 20 in village Jaya 

nagar . 
HII line is the common boundary of village Jayanagar and Kuninagar. 
I line is the cominon boundary of Kunjnagar and Reserve fiorest , 
JK line passes through Reserve linsest. 
KA linc pasice along the common boundary of village Kunjnagar and Reserve livrest . 

SCHIDUP B 
Bushrampur Coullicht ( Block C ) 
BLOCK II 

Drawing No. Rer . /25159 
Showing lands where rights to minc, quarry , bore , 

dig and Rescarch for win , work and carry away 

minerals are to be acquired , 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - 
SI. 

Thana 
No. Name of Village Thana No. District Area Rernarks 

- - - - - - - - 

Acres Part 
I Jayanagar Jayanagar 88 Surguja 

22 :03 Part 
2 Tilaikachhar 

agar 

Surguja 

114 : 53 
3 Sashipur aluas Jayanagar 77 Surguja 

193 97 Part 
Tharmunda 
4 Parbatipur alias Jayanagar 

Surguja 

1 .85 

Part 
Kashaidahar 
5 Reserve Forest Jayanngar 

Surguja 

I 82 Part 
701AL 

334 20 ( Approximately ), 
- - - - - - 
Plots in village Jayanagar : 

412 ( Part), 413 Parl ), 474 (Part ), 415 416 ( Part), 

419 ( Part), 420 (Part) 122 (Part), 435 (Part). 


ia 


- 


- 


- 


89 


Part 


Plots in village Tilaikachhar : 


2 (Pari ), 7 TO IQ , II (Part ), 12 10 19 , 20 ( Part), 22 ( Part ), 

23 (Part) , 27 ( Part), 31 ( Part) , 72 (Part ), 33 (Part) , 
34 , 35 , 36 (Part), 37 ( Part) , 3 (Tart ), 39 (Part ), 
10 (Part ), 41, 42, 43 (Part), 111 (Part). 


ots in - village Sashipur : 


2 ( Part ), 3, 4 , 5 ( Part), 6 to 23 , 24 (Part) 25 (Part), 30 ( Part), 

31 (Part ), 32 (Part ), 33 , 34 , 35 (Part ), 36 , 37 , 38 ( Part), 
169 (Part) , 172 ( Part). 


Plots in village Parbatipur : 


185 


(Part), 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26, 1959 /ASVINA 4, 1881 2621 
= - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
Reserve FOLONI . 

Part 
BwWidury description : 
BI lie pasith through Plot Nois , 420, 419, 461 , 416 , 427, 435 in village Taysagar . 

z in village Tulajkachhar. 
172 in village Shashipur alias Tharmund . 

185 in village Parbatipur alias Kashaidahar . 
IJ line russes thruugh Plot No . 185 in village Parhatipur alias Kashadahar. 

172 , 2 , 5 , in village Sashipur ulias Thainunda . 

In Reserve Fuicst . 
JC line passes thiough Reserve Forest . 
Plot No. 25 , 24, 32 , 31 30 , 35, 37 , 164, 2 , 38 , in village Shashipur alias Tharmunda . 
CB linc passes through ’lot No. 38 , 2 in yıllage Shashipus alias Tharmunda . 

III , II , 23 , 20 , 27, 31, 32, 33 , 36 , 40, 37, 38 , 39 , 43 , 
2 in village Tilaikuchhar. 
435 , 427 , 413 , 412 , 420 , 428 , 129 in village Jayanagar . 

[No. C2-22 (3 ) 59.] 
New Delhi, the 21st September 1959 
$ . 0 . 2123 .- - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that coal is likely 
to be obtained from the land mentioned in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

Now , therefore , in excrcise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 4 of the Coal Bearing Areas ( Acquisition and Development ) Act, 1957 
(20 of 1957 ) , the Central Government hcreby gives notice of its intention to pros 
pect for coal thercin . 


SCHUDULE 

( Plan No . HQ /LA /74 /59 ). 
Blochem -“ 9” — Raniganj Coalfield 
- - - - - 

- - 
Thanu Thani District Areas Remarks 


- 


- 


Si. Name of Village 


Nu. 


No. 


- 


- - - 


41 


1, Dashinkhanda . 
2 . Kajord . 
3 . Bhudur . . 
4 . Dignalu . 
5 . Ramprasadpur 
6 . Buskut . . 
7 . Mudanpur , 
8 . Andal , 
9 . Damodar River Block 

- -- - - 


Andul 
Andal 
Andal 
And.11 
Andal 
Andal 
Andul 
Andul 


Burdwan 899 Acres Part. 
Burdwan 13 Actes 

Part. 
Burcwan 301 Acres 

Part. 
Buidwan 697 Acres 

Part . 
Burdwan 306 Acrus Pari, 
Burdwan 460 Acres , Whole . 
Burdwan + Acres . Part. 
Burdw .in 100 Acres , Part . 

Burdwan 230 Acres, Part. 
- - 

- - - - - - - 
, 3 , 1R0 Acres (Approximately , 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 
. 


TOTAL 


- - - -- 
Boundary Description : 


AB line is the common boundary of villages Baska and Madanpur. 
BC line is the common boundary of villages Baska and Palasban . 
CD line is the common boundary of villages Dignala and Palasban 
DE line is the common boundary of villages Dignala and Babuisol, 
EF line is the common boundary of villages Harishpur and Kajura . 
FG line passes along Singram Nala . 
GH line is the common boundary of villages Bhadur and Kajora , 
III line is the common boundary of villages Kajora and Dashinkhanda . 
IJ line is the common boundary of villages Dashinkhanda and Gaidhoba, 
JK line passes through village Dash .nkhanda towards South - East. 


2622 THE GAZEI TE OF INDIA . SEP1 ENBHR 26 , 1959/ 1SVINA 1, 1881 


[Part It 


KL line passes through villages Dashinkhanda , Andal, Bhadur , Dignala towards 
South -West. 

LM line passes through villages , Dignala , towards South -East . 

MN line passes through villages Dignala , Ramprasadpur , towards South -West 
to Damodar River . 

NO line passes along Damodar River. 
OA line passes through village Madanpur, 

The plans of this area can be inspected at the office of the Collector, Burdwan 
( West Bengal) or at the office of the National Coal Development Corporation Ltd . 
( Revenue Section ) Darbhanga House, Ranchi, 

[No. C2- 24 ( 1 )/ 59. ] 

B . ROY, Under Secy . 
(Department of Iron and Steel) 

New Delhi, the 21st September 1959 
S . O . 2124 / ESS .COMM / IRON AND STEEL 2 ( c ) / AM (49 ) . — In exercise of the 
powers conferred by sub - clause ( c ) of clause 2 of the Iron and Stecl (Control) 
Order , 1956 , the Central Government hereby directs that the following further 
amendment shall be made to the notification of the Government of India , in the 
Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel, No . S . R . O . 204 /ESS .COMM / IRON AND STEEL 
2 ( c ) , dated the 11th June, 1957, as amended from time to time, namely : 

In the Schedule annexed to the said notification , in columns 2 and 3 thereof, 
against DELHI , the following entry shall be added , namely : -- 

- - - - 

- 
3 


“ 6 . 


The Assistant Director , Industries , Delhi, 


4, 5 , I& , 20, 24 (b ), 24(c) and 24(d )." 


[No. SC ( A ) - 1 ( 14 ).] 
J. S . BAIJAL, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

(Department of Agriculture ) 
(Indian Council of Agricultural Research ) 

New Delhi, the 12th September 1959 
S . O . 212 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (b ) of section 2 of the Indian Oilseeds 
Committee Act, 1946 (9 of 1946 ), as in force in India and as applied to tlic State of Pundicherry, 
and in superscasion of the notifications of the Government of India in the Ministry ofFood and Agri 
culture No. 5 - 50 / 57 -Com . I, dated the 16th May , 1957 and the 29th 30th April, 1958, the Central 
Government hereby appoints each of the officers specificd in column ( 1 ) of the Schedule hercto 
annexed to perform the duties of a Collector under the provisions of the said Act and the rules 
made thereunder for the areas specified in the corresponding entry in column ( 2 ) of the said 
Schedule . 


THE SCHEDULE 


Within their respective jurisdictions . 


1. Officers of Customs appointed under 

the Sea Customs Act , 1878 . 
2 . The Collector of Central Excise , 

Baroda , 


The districts of Mehsana , Baroda , Dangs , Surat , 

Broach , Panchmahals, Keira , Ahmedabad , Sabar 
kantha , Banaskantha, Amreli, Zalawad , Gohilwad , 
Şorath , Halar , Madhya Saurashtra and Kutch , of the 
Bombay State . 


wuc. $ (id) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1969 / ASVINA 1 , 1881 2623 
: - - - - - - - - - - - - 

H - - - - - - - - - - - - - 


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - 
3 . The Collector of Central Excise , The State of Madhya Pradesh , and the districts of Chunda 
Nagpur, 

Bhandara , Nagpur , Akula , Buldhanu , Yeotmal, Ain 

raoti and Wardha of the State of Bonbay 
4 . The Collector of Central Excise . The districts of Ahmednagar, East Khandesh , West 
Poona . 

Khandesh , Nasık , Poona, North Satara, Sholapur , 
South Satara , Kolhapur, Aurangabad , Pachhani, 
Nanded , Bhir and Osmanabad and Panvel ( except 
Uran Mahal) , Karjat and Khalpur talugs of Kolaba 
district and the district of Thane except the taluqs of 
Bassein , Dahanų , Palagher and Umbergaon , all of 

Bombay State . 
5. The Collector of Central Excise , The districts of the State of Bombay other than those 
Bombay. 

Specified in ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) above . 
6 . The Collector of Central Excise . The States of Madras and Kerala . 

Madras. 
7. The Collector of Customs and The State of Pondicherry . 

Contral Excisc , State of Pondi 

cherry . 
8 . The Collector of Central Excise , The State of Mysore . 

Mysore , 
9 . The Collector of Central Excise , The States of West Bengal and Orissa . 

Calcutta . 
10. The Collector of Central Excise , The State of Uttar Pradesh . 

Allaliabad . 
II The Collectvi of Central Excise , Thc State of Assam and the Union Territories of Tripura 
Shillong . 

and Manipur . 
12 . The Collector of Central Excise , The States of Punjab , Jammu and Kashmir and Raja - 
Delhi, 

than and the Union territories and Flimachal Pradesh 

and Delhi. 
13. The Collector of Central Excisc, The State of Andhra Pradesh , 

Hyderabad . 
14 . The Collector of Central Excise , The State of Bihar . 

Patna . 
IS . The Deputy Commissioner , Anda - The Union territory of the Andaman and Nicobar 

man and Nicobar Islands , Port Blair . Islands . 


[No. 5 -50157 - Com . I/II ] 
PRAKASII KRISHEN , Dy. Secy. 


(Deparțment of Agriculture ) 
( Indian Council of Agricultural Research ) 

New Delhi, the 12th September 1959 
6 . 0 . 2126 . -- In pursuance of the provisions of Rule 26 ( 4 ) of the Indian Oilseeds 
Committee Rules , 1947 framed under Section 17 of thc Indian Oilseeds Committee 
Act , 1946 ( 9 of 1946 ) , the Central Government herehy publish the audited 
accounts of the receipts and expenditure of the Indian Central Oilsteds Committee 
for the year ending 31st March , 1958, together with the auditor s report thercon . 

Part 11 — Current Audit. 

Para 1 - Financial position - A statement showing the receipts and expenditure 
for the ycar 1957 - 58 prepared under Rule 26 ( 4 ) of the Rules and Regulations of 
Central Oilseeds Committee Act, 1946 , and checked by audit is enclosed at 
Annexure A . 

The receipts & expenditure of the Committee during the year under report 
as compared with those of tho previous two years are as under : 
Receipts excluding debt heads 

Expenditure excluding debt heads 
1955 -56 23,44, 246 

1955 - 56 

8 , 75 , 325 
1956 -57 26 ,66 ,532 

1956 -57 10 , 58, 745 
1957 -58 26 , 61, 736 

1957 - 58 14 ,34 ,667 
These figures reveal large unutilised accumulation of money locked up with the 
Committee . It was explained that the unutilised balances were liable to diminish 


- - - - - - 


- - 


2624 TIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 / ASVINA 4 , 1881 [PART 11 
- - - - - -- -- - . - . 

- - - - - - - - 
in the near future as the Committee s activities had increased enormously . This 
can be knowil only after the close of the accounts for the year 1958 -59. 

In as muy s 83 ascs , the audit certificates from the various Arcountant 
Generals pertaining to the year 1951 -52 to 1957 -58 had not so far been received , 
The amount in rc pectul which such audit certificates are awaited aggregated to 
Rs. 14 , 98 ,218 -62 np . This state of affairs is brought to the notice of the Ministry . 

Interest - frce Loans to Co - operative Societies Through State Governments. 

( u ) The Government of India in their letter No . 90617 - P / 48 - 39, dated the 
18th January 1951, as amended by letter No. F . 5 - 29 /51 - Com . I, dated the 4th 
January , 1952, sanctioned an advance of Rs. 96 ,000 to three different Market 
Committees out of the Groundnut Fund . One of the Market Committees , viz. , 
Bellary District Cotton and Groundnut Market Committee completed the project 
at a cost of Rs. 6 , 107 - 13 - 6 sometime in July , 1955 , against an advance of Rs. 33 ,000 
given for the purpose . The Madras Government at the time of partition decided 
that the advariçe of Rs. 33,000 may be transferred to Adoni Market Committee 
and Andhra Pradesh Government made responsible for the repayment and 
recovery of the loans. So far no recovery e . ther from Bellary Market Committee 
or from the Adoni Market Committec has been effected . The matter is stated to 
be pending with the State Government of Andhra Pradesh as there was a dispute 
between the two Market Committees over the settlement of final accounts. As 
u huge sum of Rs. 26 ,892 - 2 - 6 has been left unrecovered , since 1955 , the matter 
is brought to the 110tice of the Ministry for immediate action . 

( b ) Similar interest - Irre loans of rupees one lac were sanctioned to 9 different 
Societies in Bombay State lille Government letter No. F . 40 -45 49 - Com . dated thy 
29th November, 1950. In these cases also , 6 projects are stated to have been 
completed whereas three are still incomplete The recovery of loans in these 
cascs was to be effccted in 20 equal instalments . But no recovery has so far 
been effected as per record of the Committee . It was explained that in some 
cases the instalment of loan had already been l ecovered by the State Govern 
ment, but it had not becn possible to credit them into " Groundnut Fund " as the 
head of account in which it was to be credited , was still under correspondence 
with the Government of India and the Accountant General, Central Revenue , 
New Dolhi. The matter is brought to , the notice of the Ministry . Final action 
taken in the matter would be awaited in audit . 


( c ) A sum of Rs. 10 ,000 was sanctioned to Manipur State for disbursement 
to 41 Societies . In these cases also), the first and second instalments fell due in 
March , April, 1957, and 1958 respectively , but no recovery uppcared to have been 
effected so far. It was fxplained that inspite of issuc of regular reminders to the 
State Governments , they have not yet been able to effect recoveries from the 
Societies concerned on the due dates . The matter is brought to the liolice of 
the Ministry for taking it up with the State Governments at the appropriate level, 

Printing of Vanaspati Industry Monographs. 

Tenders were called from the 5 Bombay Printing Presses for the printing of 
one thousand copies of the monograph , and order for the same was placed in 
September , 1957 with the Examiner Press , Bombay . Later on , the press was 
asked by the Secretary when he was at Bombay to print 1, 500 copies instead of 
1 , 000 . This decision was stated to have been taken by him on the spot altel 
consulting the Secretary of the Vanaspati Manutacturer s Association of India 
who suggested that 1, 000 would be insullicient and 1, 500 copics were necessary . 
Neither any formal orders for the printing of the additional copies nor any fresh 
quotations for the increased number of coples could be shown to audit The firm 
was paid at Rs. 18 per page for these additional 500 copies erde Voucher No. 370 
dated the 31st March , 1958. On a reference to the quotation furnished by tlie 
firm , it was noticed that the flim had quoted five rupees extra for each 250 addi 
tional copies as would be seen from the following : - 

500 copies Rs. 21 per page of 107 pages. 
750 copies Rs 26 per page of 107 pages . 
1000 copies Rs. 31 per page of 107 pages. 
Ilad the matter been negotiated in advance before the order for the additional 
500 copies was placed , probably the Arm would have quoted the rates on the slab 
system . In this wuy , the rate of Rs 10 would have been for additional 500 copies 
as per their original quotation of Rs, 5 per additional 250 copies . Payment at 
the rate of Rs. 18 for 500 additional copies instead of at the rate of Rs. 10 is 


- 


- 


Sec. 3 ( il)] THE GAZETTI. Or 1 : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 / ASVINA 4, JANI 2625 
= = = = - = - = - = = 

- = = - - 
apparently on the high sides and the matter is brought to the notice of the Minis 
tly for investigation) . 

Non -recovery of Conveyance Advance 

( a ) An advance of Rs. 140 for the purchase of cycle was paid to an employee 
of the Commitee on 2nd November, 1957 2 .de voucher No. 18 208. Although 
the advance was required to be recovered in 14 instalments . the first instalment 
falling due in December , 1957, no recovery scems to have been effected so far , 
Early steps may please be taken to recover the advance alongw .th interest accrued 
thereon . 

( b ) Yt appeared that no note of this advance was kept in the Recovery Regis 
te 101 an analysis was done of the amount hown under " P - Deposit and advances 
rotund : ble " at the time of the preparntion of Statement of Receipt and Expendi 
ture for the year cnding 31st March , 1 : 58. 

The purpose of the Statcincnt of Accolints of Receipts and Expenditure is not 
only to show the actual receipt and expenditure but also to enable the Conimittee 
to know the State of accounts so far as income and expenditure , ictually dun or 
cxpendable, was concerned . It would be in the interest of the Committee it , at 
the time of the preparation of the Statement of accounts, the various items of 
receipt and expenditur ile examired in detail, with a view to know the position 
of the short recovering on Ich expenditurr , A not to this circuit may be attach 
Yo the Statement of Accounts of Riccirit and Expenditure for the information of 
the Standing Finance Sub - Committee as well as of the audit 

Reiribursemeni of medicul charge : 

Clause 4 ( ) of the ICOC Medical Attendance Rules, 1949 define the authorised 
medical attendant as doctor of the status of Civil Sugcon , Assistant Surgeon 
or Sub - Assistant, Surgeon according to the status of the cmployee 

The rates of fees prescribed for a medical attındant are as follows : - - 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - 

- - 
First consultation 

Per visit 
- - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - 
( a ) For an IMS Onicer or Civil Surgeon . 

Rs . 16 - 0 - 0 
( b ) For a Provincial Medical Service Omirer 

Rs 3 - 0 - 0 
( c ) For a Subordinate Medical Scrvice Officer, 

Rs . 2 - 0 - 0 
Subsequent consultution in respect of the sinine Case 
( a ) For an IMS Officer or a Civil Surgeon . 

RS 10 - 0 - 0 
( b ) For a Provincial Medical Service Oficer 

Rs 2 - 0 - 0 
( c ) For a Subordinate Med cal Service Officer . 

Rs. 1 - 8 - 0 
- - - 

- - - - -- - - - 
The bills, howryer , showed that the fees paid to the Honorary Junior Medical 
Onicer attached to the Niloufor Hospital, declared as Officer of Grade V i. c. 
Assistant Surgeon of the said cadre vide Director of Medical Services , Andhra 
Pradesh , letter No. P2. B . 16125 , 59 datcd the 10th February , 1959 are Rs. 5 per 
visit instead of Rs 3 adinissible to a Provincial Medical Srrvicci Oficer . The 
reimbursement of fim at Rs. 5 was, therefnre , incorrect . The total Annount cxcess 
paid in these cases niay please be worked out and recoverrd under intimation to 
Audit. 

( b ) At the time of discussion it was explained that the rutos fixed by the 
Andhra Pradesh Government for Central Government employces were as follows: 
- - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - 
First coolultation 

Per visit 
- - - -- - - - -- -- -- - 
( a ) For Civil Surgeon and Specialists , 

I.G , Rs. 16 -0 - 0 
( b ) For Medical Officers Class II and also Specialists of 
the same cadre (as they are gazetted ) . 

I.G . Rs. 5 -0 -0) 
Subsequent conslulation in respect of the same cases 
( a ) For Specialist .. 

I. G Rs , 10 - 0 - 0 
( b ) For Civil Su geons. 

IG . Rs. 10 - 0 - 0 
(c ) For Medical Hicers Class II and also Specialists of the 
samc cadre (Gazetted ) . 

I. G . Rs. 3 - 0 - 0 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


2626 TIJE GAZETTE OF INDIA . SEPTEMBER 25 , 1959 / 1SVINA 4, 1881 


[ PARI JI 


As the rates fixed by the State Government are in excess of those provided 
in schedule 1 of the Medical Altendance Rule , 1949 the payment thereof without 
the approval of the competent authority , is not in order . The matter is brought 
to the notice of the Ministry for amending the Rules, il considered necessary . 
I uyment of house rent allowance . 

Supplementary Rule 6 ( c ) lays down that the house rent will be drawn if 
the authority sanctioning the leave , certifies thut the Government servant is 
likely , on the expiry of the leave , to return to duty at the station from which he 
proceeds on leave or at another station in which he will be entitled to house rent 
allowance . It has, however , been noticed that no such certificate is being record 
ed in the order sanctioning leave , inspite of the clear instructions in the Compila 
tion of the FR & SR No. 1 under S . R . 6 ( a ) ibid . 

It was stated at the time of the discussion that as staff going on leave had 
necessarily to return to duty in the same office at Hyderabad and could not be 
posted elsewhere , the requisite certificate was not considered nccessary to be 
recorded at that time. 

As the payıncnt of house rent allowance cannot be admitted in audit unless 
the requisite certificate is there , the instructions laid down in the Rules may 
please be strictly followed . 
Sealrity from Cashier 

No security has been taken from the Cashier for handling the cash although 
he has been paid Rs. 20 per mensem as cash allowance. Early steps may please 
be taken to recover the requisite security in the prescribed form to safeguard the 
Committee s interests . 

A test audit note containing minor irregularitics which could not be settled 
at the spot, has been handed over to the Secretary for necessary action and show 
ing compliance to the next Audit party . 
Audit fee . 

The Audit ſed amounting to Rs. 540 ( Provisional ) for the audit conducted , 
may please be deposited in the State Bank of Hyderabad under the head " XLVI 
Miscellaneous fees for Governnient audit" in favour of the Dirertor of Audit, 
FRSCS & M , New Delhi, under intimation to audit . 


( Sd . ) P . K . BISWAS. 
Dy . Dirertor of Audit. 

20 - 4 -59. 


Indian central oliseeds committee 
Statement of account of receipts and expenditure for the year ending 31st March , 1958 


Suc.3(11)] 


RECEIPTS 


PAY 41 EVTS 


Amount 
Rs. OP. 


Total 
Rs. 


Amount . 
Rs. nP. 


Toral 
Rs. np. 


DP . 


Opening Balance on 1 -4 -57 

tok 
Imprest Cash 


52,36,447 52 

252 00 


2 , 48 ,352 17 

17 ,830 67 


Securities 


53 ,39,765 2 


1,05 , 76 ,465 14 


7 , 15,684 50 


1 ,22,770 


00 


TOTAL 
Cess collections under Section 3 ( 2 ) of 
the Indian Central Oilseeds Commi 

ttee Act, 1946 . . 
Interest on investments 
Profit on lovestments 
Miscelleneous Receipts 
Grants from the Central Government 

from Linseed and Groundnut Funds 
Receipts from Research schemes financed 
by the Indian Central Oilseeds Com 

mittee . . . . . 
Recovery of unspent balances of grants 

for schemes financed by the Indian 
Central Oilseeds Committee 


A . Administration of Indian Central 
Oilseeds Committee (As per Schedule 
B . Travelling Allowance to members 
C . Measures taken for promoting 

Agricultural Research (As per 
1,05, 76,465 14 Schedule II) 

D . Measures taken for promoting Tech 

nological Research (As per Sche 
23, 99 ,812 : 38 dule III ). . 
1,83 , 308 19 E . Measures taken for promoting 
7 , 546 88 Marketing (as per Schedule IV ) 
840 83 F , Measures taken for portaoting De 

velopment of Oilseeds Industry 
53 ,372 . 00 (As per Schedule V ) 

G . Subsidies for Publications (As per 

Schedule VI) . . 
* 5 ,532 . 02 H . Deposites and Advances Refun 

dable (As per schedule VID) 
I. Construction of Office Building etc . 
(As per Schedule VIII) 

TOTAL FROM " A " TO " I" 


52 -456 48 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1959/ASVINA4,1881 


51,359 79 
1, 973 57 

3 ,534 00 
2 , 24, 240 00 
14 ,38, 201 18 


and Advances 


Recovery of Deposites 

Refundable : 


(a ) Conveyance etc. 
(b ) Pay etc . 
i Fesitivals 
( d ) Floods 
ie ) Building etc. of houses 
i Loans advanced under schemes . 


12 ,081 72 
2 ,164 75 

180 00 


Investment of Funds as ott 31- 3 -1958 

1. 3 % Convertion Loan 1946 - 1986 , 
2 . 31 % Ten Year Treasury Saving 

Certificate 
3. Post Office National Savings Cero 

tificate . 
4 . 2 -3/4 % Gofernment of India Loan 

1960 . - 
5. 3 % (Second Victory Loan ) 1959 61 


4 , 96, 093 75 

50 ,000 00 
1, 00 ,000 00 


800 00 


TOTAL 


5,226 47 


5 ,226 .47 


9 ,59, 375 00 
1 ,92 ,375 00 


2627 


RECEIPTS 


Amount 


Total 


PAYMENTS 


Amount 


Total 


Rs. 


Ra, 


np . 


Rs, 


P . 


Receipts from Publications 


2 ,893 50 


1964 


. 


Rs. 
6. 3 % Government of India Loud 
7. 2-34 % Government of India Loan 
8. 3 % Government of India Loan 

9. 3 % (Second Victory Loan ) 1990 
10 . 33 % National Plan Loan 

TOTAL 
Closing balance , on 31- 3- 1958 : 
Imprest Cash : 

TOTAL 


4,62, 96875 
5 ,47, 312 50 
4 ,62, 187 50 
4 , 80 , 000 oo 
1, 97 , 000 00 


1963-65 


65 


39, 47 ,312 50 


39 -47 ,312 50 


Bank . 


78 ,57 , 661 66 

252 00 


2628THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER26,1969/ASVINA4,1881 


78, 57 ,913 66 


78, 57 ,913 66 


GRAND TOTAL 


1 , 32 ,43 427 34 


GRAND TOTAL 


1,32,43,427 34 


Secretary , 
Indian Central Oilseeds Committee 


[PARTI 


Se 3 ( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 /ASVINA 4 , 1881 


2620 


LR 


Break up of the Closing Balance as on 31st March , 1998 . 


Rs. 


( 1 ) Balance as per Bank statement as on 31 - 3 - 58 
( 2 ) Amounts of unceshed cheques : 


. 


69 , 51,312 . 96 
- ) 90 ,256 . 08 


. 


. 


. 


. 


P68 ,60, 876 . 88 
Amounts entered in the cash book but not credited in the bank . . . ( + ) 9, 96, 784 . 78 
Closing balance as on 31st March , 1998 . . 

. . . . - 78 ,57 ,661. 66 
I havc cxamined the foregoing Accounts and Balance Sheet of Indian Central Oilsçcds Commi 
ttee, Hyderabad , I have obtained all the information and explanations that I have required , 
rand subject to the observations in the separate Audit Report and TA Note , I certify as a result 
of my audit , that in my opinion these Accounts and Balance Sheet are properly drawn up so as 

o exhibit a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the concern according to the best of my 
Information and explanadons given to me and as shown by the books of the concern . 

Sd ./-Assistant Audit Officer , 

SCHEDULE I 
I. Administration of the lodian Central Ollsoods Committco - 1957- 58 . 
Head of Expenditure 

Expendituro 

Rs. nP . 
1, Pay of Officer 

18 ,421 96 
2 . Pay of Establishment 

98 , 057 07 
3 . Leave salary & Pension Contributions , 

2 , 988 31 
Provident Fund Contributions , . 

5 , 229 oo 
5 . Allowances and Honoraria : 

R , OP . 
(a ) T . A . of Secretary & Staff 

15 , 866 12 
(b ) Dermess Allowance 

15 , 841 76 
( c ) Dcarness Pay 

14 , 153 13 
a) Compensatory & House Rent Allowance 

11 , 295 02 
e) Honoraria 

890 99 
(1) Travell concession during regular leave 

1 ,711 22 
Total of s . 

59 ,758 24 59 ,758 24 
6 . Contingencies : 
( a ) Office rent including water & electric charges 

12, 113 67 
( b ) Postage , Telegram & Telephone 

6 ,635 23 
( c ) Books & Publications . . 

1 ,855 81 
( d ) Stationary & Forms 

5,31€ 33 
( e ) Printing , 

54 ,557 22 
( f) Office expenses & Miscellaneous 

8 , 237 58 
(8 ) Audit fec 

450 00 
( h ) Typewriter , duplicators etc . 

4 , 094 65 
(1) Furniture & Office equipment 

1,270 42 
Advertisements , 

412 60 
(k ) Cost of Medical attendance etc. . 

8 ,029 67 
in Museum . . 

924 41 
TOTAI OF 6 . 

1,03, 897 59 1 ,03, 897 59 
TOTAL OF A : ADMINISTRATION . 

2 ,48 ,352 17 
SCHEDULE II 
C . Measures taken for promoting Agricultural research . 
Agricultural Scheme : 
Head of Expenditure 

Expenditure 

Rs. DP Rs. np . 
1 . Scheme for the appointment of Agricultural Officer . 
Pay of Officers . 

3 , 172 13 
(a ) Travelling Allowance . 

228 41 
(b ) Dearness and Other allowances 

793 96 


6 ) 


: 


nces 


TOTAL OF I. 


4 , 194 50 


4 , 194 50 


2630 THE GAZETTE, OF INDIA . SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 /ASVINA 4, 1881 


(PART II 


- 


- 


- 


7 


- 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


- - 


Rs. OP . 


6 ,410 00 
22 , 530 00 
8 , 150 00 


S . 


19 , 160 00 


29, 980 00 
15 , 000 00 


6 , 705 00 
15, 700 00 
7 , 500 00 


7, 700 00 
18 , 700 00 


9 ,080 00 
13,550 00 
22 ,700 00 
15,300 00 


800 oo 


4 ,740 00 


11, 000 00 


1111 


, 


4 ,250 00 


11, 770 oo 


Linseed Rust Scheme, I. A . R . I., New Delhi 

Wywine . . . . 
4 . Multiplication of improved castor sced , Hyderabad 

Extension of Linseed Breeding Sub - Station Kangra , Punjab 
Scheme for the research on the evolution of high yielding varieties of 

Oilseeds in Bihar , 
7 . Scherne for inducing mutants with desirable economic characters in til 

(Sesamum ), Rape and Mustard by X -Rays , Calcutta . 

Scheme for the improvement of groundnut crops in Punjab 
9 . Scheme for the establishment of two sub -stations at Raichur and Parbhani, 

States of Mysore and Bombay respectively 
TO . Scheme for Oilseeds rescarch iu West Bengal 
II. Scheme for the improvement of oilsced crops (Besides Groundnut) Pepsu - - 

Punjab 
13. Scheme for research in the phygiology of groundnut at Central Tobacco 

Research Institute , Rajahmundry , 
14 . Scheme to run four zonal nucleus secd forms of improved strains of 

groundnut and castor in Madrus State . 
15. Scheme to run two zonal nucleus seed farms of improved strains of ground 

out and cestor in Andhra 
11. Scheme for the improvement of Brassica crops in the Punjab . . 
18 . Scheme of research on Oilseeds in Uttar Pradesh 
20 . Scheme on research on Groundnuts in Saurashtra (Bombay State ) 
az. Scheme for agronomical studies on oilscede at Indian Agricultural 

Research Institute, New Delhi 
23. Scheme for fundamental research on oilseed crops in India for breeding 

for disease resistance in Linseed for Malwah at Institute of Plant 

Industry , Indore . 
25. Scheme for cytological studies on some Oilseed crops in India IA. R . I., 

New Delhi , 
26 . Scheme for research on phyllody discases (new scheme for research on 

Virus diseases of Oilseed crops) at Indian Agricultural Research 

Institute , New Delhi , 
27 . Scheme on research on the genetics and brceding of mustard at the college 

of Agriculture , Banaras Hindu University 
28 . Scheme for physiological investigations on Autotetraplolds of some oil 

seeds crops at Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi . 
29 . Scheme for multiplication of improved strains of mustrard in Assam 
3o . Scheme for the sccd multiplication of K - 2 variety of linseed for introduc 

tion in Kangra , District, Punjab , . 
31. Revised scheme for reascarch on the physiology of groundnut in Madras 
32. Scheme for physiological research on Linseed in Madhya Bharat, Indore 

(Madhya Pradesh ) 
33. Scheme for rescarch on cytology of Groundnut in Madras 
34 . Scheme for multiplication and distribution of improved groundnut in 

Mysore 
35 . Scheme for establishing Regional Ollsceds Research Station in Rayala 

scctha arca of Andhra Pradesh At Anantapur . 
Scheme for multiplication and distribution of improved Linsecd type and 
experiments on the extraction of its fibre together with demonstration 

of the same to the cultivators of West Bengali 
39 . Co - ordinated scheme for the establishment of Regional Arboratum of 

oil- bcaring trees in Hyderabad , 
46 . Scheme for intensive breeding of Groundnut in the Madras State 

Scheme for rescarch on groundnut and aegamum in Khandesh , Bombay 

Statc 

Scheme for research on Oilseeds in Mehsana District - Bombay Scatc 
52. Schome for the improvement of PollachiGroundnut in Madras State 

Scheme for multiplication and distribution of improved seeds of Ground , 

nut in West Bengal , 
Schºme formultiplication and distribution of improved groundnut A . K . 

12 - 24 in Ma Thya Pradesh (now in Bombay State ) 
Scheme for the Agronomic investigations of groundnut at Amravati in 

Bombay State . 
67. Scheme for sresearch on important diseases of Groundnut in the Punjab 

State , , 

Scheme for research on oilseed crops in Orissa State 
69 . To meet the expenditure for installing 20 Curic cobalt field source for 

gamma irradication on oilseeds at the Indian Central Jutc Research 
Institute , Calcutta 


2 , 740 00 
1 ,000 , 00 


9 ,840 00 
14 ,900 00 


17 ,450 00 
6 . 900 oo 


6 ,450 00 
17,640 00 


36 . 


10 , 365 00 


4 , 060 oo 


6 ,000 00 


57. 


6 ,980 oo 
7 ,880 on 
8 ,750 00 
9,300 00 
10 ,910 og 
7,500 00 
3,760 00 
4 ,710 00 


66 . 


68 . 


15, 000 00 


Sec . 9 ( 11 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 /ASVINA 4 , 1881 2631 


= 


= 


Rs. nP 


7 ,490 00 


1 ,000 00 


71. Scheme for research for anatomical and Marphological studies of fruits 

and sccde of some Crucifers with particular reference to oil yielding plants 

at the Meerut College, Mccrut 
72 . Scheme for studies in Crop Botany (Oilseeds Crops at the University of 

Cali itta , West Bengal 
73 . Scheme project for the inletisinication of Regional Research on Cotton , 

Oil cods ard Millers 
74 . Scheme for research on Sesamum in Kerala State 
75 . Oilseed Extension Scheme ili Orsa 
76 . Oilseed Extension Scheme in Madras 
77. Oilseed , Extension Scheine in Punjab 

Scheme for the trial of improved groundnut and Sesamum váricties from 
Madras in Kerala State 


2 ,45,750 00 

5 , 500 00 

4 ,490 00 
26 ,670 00 

$ 50 00 


1,000 00 


TOTAL OP " C . - MEASURF S TAKEN FOR PROMO UNG AGRICULIL 

KAR RYSLARCH 


7 ,15,684 50 


SCHEDULE III 


D . Measures taken for promoting technological Research . 
2 . Schemes - 


Heads of expenditure 


Expenditure 
Rs. np . 


15,470 


3 ,410 


8 
8 
8 


10 ,020 


2 , 180 


8 


3 ,400 07 
1,8r0 0 


8 


4 . Scheme for the establishment of a pilot plant for the manufacture of 

cotton seed oil to be worked at the Oil Technological Institute, Ananta 

pur 
9 . Scheme for the study of the cffects of different kinds of storage on oil 

seeds and oils in Uttar Pradesh . 
Scheme on utilisation of non - cdible Vegetable oils as lubricants at National 

Chemical laboratory , Poona 
14 . Scheme for study of new anti-oxidants related to plant pigments at Delhi 

University , Delhi 
Scheme for the study of the conditions of storage of oulseeds with regard 

to their safety from pest attacks and to the keeping qualities of their oil 
contents with a view to recommending suitable methods for both pur 

poscs - Uttar Pradesh 
16 . Scheme on utilisation of 1 - edible oils as wetting agents in Textile In 

dustry at University College of Science and Technology , Calcutta . 
17 . Scheme for the study of the preparation and properties of surface active 

agents from Castor oil and from its derivatives at the Department of 

Chemical Laboratory Bombay University 
18. To mect the cost towards lands and buildings in taking over the Oil 

Technological Institute , Anantapur . 
Scheme on the nutritional studies of groundnut und til oil at the Indian 

Institute of Science , Bangalore . 
20 . Scheme on cdible proteins from carcfully prepared Commercial Oilcakes 

(Groundnut Sesamum etc .) at C . F . T . R . I. Mysore . . 
21. Scheme on utilisation of oilseed meal in thc prcparation of processed pro 

tojn suppleinents suitable for human consumption at the C . F . T .R . I. , 

Mysorc 
22 . Scheme for studies on the vitamin values and the essential fatty acids in 

the major cdible oilsсeds at the I . I. S ., Bangalore . 
Scheme for the prcparation of Chemicals from Castor oil at the National 

Chemical Laboratory , Poona 
24 , Schenie for testing incthods of identifications of Vegetable Oils inde 

pendently at the Departinent of Chemical Technology, Bombay Uni 
versity , Bombay . 


3, 720 
1,340 
3 ,940 


8 
8 
8 


19 . 


22 ,400 


8 


48 ,250 00 


3 ,350 


00 


23 . 


1 , 300 


00 


2 , 180 


00 


Toi 


01 D - MASURE TAKEN FOR PROMOTING TECHNOLOGICAL RE 

SLARCHI 


1, 22, 770 


00 


2632 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 /ASVINA 4, 1881 


[PART II 


SCHEDULE IV 
E . Moasura takon for promoting Marketing . 

Heads of expenditure 


Expenditure 
Rs. P 


3 , 394 
14 , 378 

503 


17 
43 


1, 348 


IT 


1 . Pay of Officer 
2 . Pay of Establishment 
3 . Leave Salary & Pension contributions 
4 . Provident Fund Contributions . . 
* . Allowanca & Honoraria : 
( a ) Travelling Allowance 

1,096 . 48 
(0 ) Dearnegg allowance 

3 , 945 .32 } 
(c ) Dearnces pay 

3 , 505 . 325 
( sh Compensatory & House Rent Allowance 

2 , 718 . 59 
. . . . . . 11,269 .72 
Schemes ; 
13 . Scheme for the survey of minor oilseeds in the former Vindhya Pra 

desh . 
14. Scheme for the crop estimation surveys on principal oilsсeds Crops in 

India - Rajasthan . 
15. Scheme for the crop estimation surveys on principal bilseeds in India 
16 . Scheme for the crop estimation surveys on principal oilaced crops in 

India - Andhr Pradesh . . . . . . . . . 
TOTAL OP E — MBASURBS TAKEN POR PROMOTING MARKETING . . 


11, 205 72 


Aggam 


1 ,056 92 
6 ,000 00 
2,120 00 
12 , 390 00 
52 ,456 48 


SCHEDULE V 
F . Measures taken for Promoting Development of Oilseeds Industry . 

Heads of expendituro 


Expendituro 
Rs. OP . 

685 48 
479 31 


2 . Exhibitions , 
3 . (6 ) Expenscs in connection with hand driven machine for decorticating 

Mowba seeds 


269 00 


13 , 000 


Scheme. 
( 2 ) Scheme for investigation of nutritive value of different oilcakes 

produced by the ghani and expeller process , Izatnagar (U . P .) . 
( 4 ) Scheme for organisation of Co - operatives of Oilmen and develop 

ment of Village Oil Industry , Bihar , . . 
(5) To bear 50 % interest on loan upto Rs. 2 lakhs to be issued to Co 

operative Societies by Orissa State Government . . 
(9 ) Scheme for development of Village Oil Industry in Bhopal State , 
(27) Scheme for setting up and running demonstration units of im 

proved ghanis in the development Block areas of Ramnagerem , 

Gundlupet , Harihar and Holenarasipur - - Mysore State (4 Centres ) 
(32 ) Scheme for setting up and running demonstration unit of Wardha 

Ghani in the Kuttanad Community Development Block . . 


4 ,850 00 
2 ,316 00 


4 , 760 


00 


5 , 000 


00 


(41) By - Scheme for setting up and running demonstration units of 

Wardha ghanis in Community Development and National Ex 
tension Service Block Areas of Madhya Pradesh (4 Centres ) 


20 ,000 00 


TOTAL OF F - MEASURBS TAKEN FOR PROMOTING DEVELOPMENT OF OIL 

SBEDS INDUSTRY 


51,359 79 


B . 8 ( tl)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26, 1959/ ASVINA 4 , 1881 2633 


SCHEDULE VII 


G . Subsidies for Publications. 

Heads of expendituro 


Expendiraro 
Rs P . 


1, Subsidy to the Bombay Oilseeds Exchange Ltd ., Bombay for the Oil and 

Ollsccds Journal 
3 . Subsidy to the Oil Technologists Association ( India ) Kanpur, for Print 

ing four issues of its Journal during 1956 - 57 
TOTAL OP G -- SUBSIDIBS FOR PUBLICATIONS 


1, 563 70 

409 87 


1,973 


57 


H 


SCHEDULE VII 
Deposits and advances of Refundable . 

Hoads of Expendituro 


R 


Expendiente 

nP. 


Sol Conveyance etc . 
10) Festivals 

TOTAL, OP H - DEPOSITS AND ADVANCES REFUNDABLE . 


2 , 445 00 
1,089 00 


NE 


3 ,534 00 


SCHEDULE VIII 
I. CONSTRUCTION OF OFFICE BUILDING ETC. 

Hoods of expenditure 


Expondituro 
Rs . DP. 


2 , 24 , 240 


00 


Construction of office building etc . 

TOTAL OP I - CONSTRUCTION OF OFFICE BUILDING ETC . 


2 , 24 , 240 


00 


[No. 8 -4 / 59 -Com . II.] 
AJUDHIA PRASADA , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING & SUPPLY 

New Delhi, the 14th September 1959 
8 .O . 2127 . - In exercise of the powers conferred on him under the proviso to 
Article 309 of the Constitution , the President hereby directs that the method and 
Aeld of recruitment for the post of Draftsmen Grade I ( Civil and Electrical) in the 
Central Public Works Department shall be as shown in the annexure. 


Name of 
Post 


I. S 
Classific - 

tion 


for 


2634THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPIEMBER26,1959,ASVINA4,1881 


IS 


1 
Drafis 
man 
Grade I 
{ itin 
and 
Elec .sical) 


ANNEXURE 
Recruiment Rules for Diftsman Grade 1 (Ciel and Electricalin the Central Publ : Forks Department 
Percentage of hists to become 

For Direct Whether Grades 
fillei by 

Recrui .meat age and Sources 
promotions 

educational from which 
Scale Duties Number of 

- - qualifi - promotions 
vf Pay 

Pests 

Direct By By Trans. Age Educa - Prioj Ariors are to be Remarks 
Recruit- Selection S2 ! 110 - fer limit tional of pres 

made 
mezt rity 

Qualif - proba cribed 
Cum 

catiors tion 
fitness 

if any 

direct 
recruit 
ment 
will 
apply 
111 cate of 
appoint 
Hent by 
PIO 

motion 
3 4 

OR U 10 _ II _ _ 12 _ 

1. 

13 
R . Tech 

20 . . . . 100 % . . . . . . . 

Pior200078 The 
100 - - nical, (Twenty ) 

will be number 
140 - - - 10 Super Besides 

made from of posts 
there are 

2016ngst will be 
nine 

permanent reviewed 
posts 

and 

afler 
which 

quasi 

every 
will be 

permanent three 
converted 

Drafisme i 

years 
into the 

Grade II 
posts of 

who have 
Section 

completed 
Officers 

IO year s 

service in 
and 

that 
whec 

grade, 
the 
incumbents 

vacated 
them . 

{No. 56 4 :59 BW II! 
B . R . MAZUMDAR , Under Secy . 


2 
CL . III, 
Non 
Gazet 

tea , 
Non 
Minis 
terial 


30 


as 


[PartII 


Sko . 3 (ii) ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 / ASVINA 4 , 1881 2625 
- 

- - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND POWER 

New Delhi, the 15th September 1959 
S . O . 2128 , - - In exercise of powers conferred by the proviso to sl ! -rule ( 1 ) of 
rule 45 of the Indian Electricity Rules , 1956 , the Central Govt ncnt hereby 
exempts all works executed departmentally by the Military Enginl. ing Services 
for or on behalf of the Ministry of Defence from so much of thu ! sub - rule as re 
quires such works to be carriert out by an electrical contractor icen .ed by the 
State Gorerament in whose area the works are exccuted . 

[NO . £ II - 3 ( 3 ) /59. ] 

G . S . BAKSILT Under Secy. 
- - - - - - - - - - - - 

MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS 

(Rallway Board ) 

New Delhi, the 11th September 1959 
S . O . 2129,- - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 47 of the Indian 
Railways Act, 1890 ( 9 of 18 : 0 ) read with the Notification of the Government of 
India in the late Department of Cuinmerce and Industry No , 801, dated the 24th 
March , 1905 , the Railway Board hereby nake the following further amendments 
in the General Rules for 21 Open Lini3 of Railways in India administered by 
the Government, published with the Notification of the Government of India in 
the lute Railway Department (Railway Boord ) No. 1078 - T dated the 9th March , 
1929, namely : - - 

In the Schedule appended to Part III of the said Rules , against serial No . 43 
under column 2, after the entry Nitro -benzol (Nitro -benzene or oil of M .rbane) , 
the following cntry shall be inserted : 
“Mono Nitro Toluene." 

[No. 59- TGII/ 17 / 1 .] 

R . E . de Sa , Secy . 


MINISTRY OF REIIABILITATION 

New Delhi, the 17th September 1959 
S . O . 2130 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sertion 5 of the Administra 
tion of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (31 oi 1950 ), the Central Government hereby 
appoints Shri M . L . Vijh , Settlement Commissioner in the Office of the Chief 
Settlement Commissioner, as Deputy Custodian General of Evacuee Property, 
with immediate effect. 

[ No. 27 (68 ) - Admn (Prop. ) /59.] 

M . L . PURI, 
Settlement Commissioner ( Admn ) & Ex-oſco Under Secy. 

New Delhi, the 17th September 1959 
S . O . 2131. - In exercise of the powers conferred on me by sub - section (3 ) of 
Section 55 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act (31 of 1950 ) , I, L , J . 
Johnson , hereby delegate to Shri M . L . Vijh , Deputy Custodian General of 
Evacuee Property , all powers vested in me under the said Act. 

L . J. , JOHNSON , 

Custodian Gencral of Evacucc Property . 
(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 17th September 1959 
S . O . 2132 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 3 
of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 
1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Saroop Krishan , I. C . S ., 
Financial Commissioner (Development), Punjab , as ex -officio Settlement Commis 
sioner in the State of Punjab for the purpose of performing the functions assign 
ed to a Settlement Commissioner by or under the said Act, in respect of agricul 
tural lands and shops in any rural area including houses , cattle sheds and vacant 
sites , if any , in any such acea allotted a ong with any such lands . 

[No. 3 ( 37 ) Policy - II/ 59. ] 

M . L . PURI, 
Settlement Commissioner & Er-oficio , Under Sery , 


2636 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 28, 1959/ ASVINA 4, 1881 


(PART II 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 17th September 1959 
S . O . 2133 . - - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Delhi, in the industrial dispute between the employer in re 
lation to the workmen employed in Bikaner Gypsums Limited , Bikaner , 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL : DELHI, 
PRESENT : 
Shri E . Krishna Murti, Central Government Industrial Tribunal. 

24th August 1959 . 
I. D . No. 245 Or 1969 . 

BETWEEN 
The employer in relation to Messrs Bikaner Gypsums Ltd ., 

AND 
Their workmen . 
Shri Anand Parkash - for the management. 
Shri Yog Raj Bhasin for the workmen . 

AWARD . 
By G . O . No. LRII-64 ( 14 ) /68 - 11 dated the 24th February , 1969, the industrial 
dispute between the employer in relation to Messrs Bikaner Gypsums Limited , and 
their workmen , has been referred to this Tribunal for adjudication under Section 
, 10 ( 1 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947. 

2 . The term of reference is as follows: 

Whether the dismissal / discharge of the under -mentioned workmen from service 
by the management of Messrs Bikaner Gypsums Limited , Bikaner, was justified , 
and, if not, to what relief these workmen are entitled ? 

(1) Shri Bhanwar Lal Verma - Supervisor, 
( ii ) Shri Sita Ram Aggarwal - Supervisor. 
( iii ) Shri Tulsi Singh - Driver, 
( iv ) Shri A . K . MukerjceWireman , 
( v ) Shri Mohabat Singh Sampler . 

( vi) Shri Shera (son of Heera ) -- Mazdoor. 
3. The allegation on behalf of the Union in the statement of claim are , that 
the termination of service of the several workmen , whose names are found in the 
order of reference is unlawful, and unjustified, and that they must all be re 
instated in service, together with back wages . 

4 . The contention on behalf of the management is , that the termination of 
service is lawful and fully justifled, and that the workmen are not entitled to any 
relief. 

5 . Both parties are agreed, that the issue is as in the term of reference. 

6 . This is a dispute between the management of Messrs Blkaner Gypsums Limit 
ed , and their workmen . 

7. Both parties have dispensed with oral evidence, and they rely only on 
documentary evidence , 
1, Shri Bhanwar Lal Verma , 

8 . This workman was & Supervisor in the Bikaner Gypsums Ltd ., Jamsar. He 
was served with a charge -sheet, Ext. M / 1 , dated 13th June, 1958 . It is alleged 
therein , that he was guilty of dishonesty in connection with the Company s business 
or property . The charge was , that on the 9th , he wag deputed for supervising and 
receiving delivery of Gypsum in measurement boxes at Kichyan from the con 
tractor there . Serious discrepancy was found in the certificate issued by him . 
Whereas on 9th , 531 boxes had been accepted , on previous dates and subsequent 


Sec. 3 ( if)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 / ASVINA 4, 1881 


2637 


dates , the deliveries from the contractor were much less , with the same number 
of labourers as on the 9th . The workman was asked to show cause why dis 
ciplinary action should not be taken against him . Ext. M / 2 is the explanation of 
Shri Verma, Ext . M / 3 is the record of enquiry and it contains the statements of 
the several witnesses , who were examined at the time. The Enquiry Officer made 
his report, and Ext. M / 6 is the order of termination of service dated 23rd June, 
1958 . Ext. M / 9 is the copy of the appeal petition , that was preferred by Shri 
Verma, and Ext. M / 10 is the order , dismissing the same. However , as a result of 
the appeal, the order of dismissal was converted into one of simple termination . 

9 . The contention on behalf of the workman is , that the charge against him is 
baseless , and that it cannot be sustained , and that the termination of service is 
unlawful and unjustified . The contention of the management is , that on 9th June, 
1958 , when he was deputed to take delivery of the boxes of gypsum from the con 
tractor, he passed a voucher , showing that the delivery amounted to 531 boxes , 
and that , when compared with deliveries on previous and subsequent dates, the 
deliveries were much more , and that this showed his dishonesty in making it 
appear that a larger quantity had been delivered . Reference has been made in 
this connection to Ext. M / 7 dated 24th June, 1958 . Attention is drawn to the fact , 
that on previous dates , Irom 2nd to 7th June, 1958 , the deliveries did not exceed 
311 boxes . On 7th June, 1958 , the total number of boxes delivered is 311, and the 
number of labourers engaged was 50 . On 9th June , 1968 , the total number of 
boxes delivered is 531, and the total number of labourers engaged is 51 . Subse 
quently on 11th June, 1958 the total number of boxes delivered was 311 , and the 
number of labours engaged was only 53 . The contention on behalf of the 
management is , that Shri Verma deliberately , with a view to cheat the Company , 
showed a larger number of boxes on 9th June, 1958 , as having been delivered by 
the contractor . This inference is sought to be drawn by comparison of the number 
of boxes delivered on previous and subsequent dates. The Enquiry Oncer has 
come to the finding , that the workman is gulity of the misconduct , with which 
he is charged . In my opinion such a Anding is baseless, and is not supported on 
the evidence. The period that is taken is from 2nd June, 1958 , to 12th June, 1958 
in Ext. M / 7 . Ext. M / 8 relates to delivery of boxes on certain dates in May and July . 
The contention on behalf of the management, that a comparison of the deliveries 
effected , as shown in Exts . M / 7 and 8 , on dates both preceeding and succeeding 
9th June , 1958 , establishes the interence of guilt of Shri Verma, is untenable . There 
is a certain amount of variation in the quantity delivered . It is a matter of note, 
that on 6th June, 1958 , 43 workmen were able to give only 198 boxes on 2nd June, 
1958 , 45 workinen were able to give 231 boxes. On 10th June , 1958 , 52 workmen 
were able to deliver 187 boxes. There is a large amount of variation in the number 
of boxes delivered, and it does not depend merely on the number of workmen 
employed in the work of delivery . Moreover, it is important to note , that, accord 
ing to the case of the workman , the boxes delivered on the 9th comprised 340 boxes 
of gypsum and 200 boxes of green . It is common ground , that there is difference 
between gypsum and green and the latter is stated to be a kind of inferior clay . 
It is noteworthy, that 531 boxes , which Shri Verma vouched for on 9th June, 1958. 
included also 200 boxes of green , On the dates shown in Ext . M / 7 , on the basis 
of which the Assistant Manager , Shri B Sehshadri, came to the conclusion , that 
there was some mal- practice on the part of Shri Verma, there is no reference to 
the quantity of green gypsum , that was delivered by the mazdoors. It is not 
possible to hola , what exactly were the deliveries of green gypsums on the dates 
noted . It is in evidence on behalf of the workman , that on Sunday more work 
men are put on by the contractor, and that they raise inferior type of gypsum , 
which is also delivered . Yet another explanation is afforded by Shri Chot Ram , 
the Supervisor , attached to Kitchyan Quarry . It would appear , that Shri Verma 
was working at Quarry No . 7 , and , owing to the temporary absence of Shri Chot 
Ram , who was working at Kitchyan Quarry , Shri Verma was deputed in his 
absence to receive deliveries from the contractor. According to Shri Chot Ram s 
evidence in cross - cxamination he used to get one donkey load extra for every 
filled box , and similarly 2 Tagaries extra atter every box Alled up by human 
labour. This was being done as the boxes were broken . It is quite obvious, that 
Shri Verma was not acquainted with the practice followed by Shri Chot Ram who 
was not taking into account the extra load that was delivered . The fact that 531 
boxes were noted as having been delivered is due to this circumstance , and not 
to any dishonesty on the part of Shri Verma. Again it is a matter of note , that 
we do not have the evidence of the contractor, who actually supplied the boxes . 
Moreover , it is clear from the evidence , that the mazdoors, who were sent along 
with Shri Verma, were new to Kitchyan Quarry . In his explanation Shri Verma 
stated , that there were 4 stacks, that it was humanly impossible to go to each of 
the stacks, and take delivery , and that he depended upon the reports of the Maz 
doors, who were taking delivery . It is likely , that the alleged discrepancy , it at 


= 


= 


= 


2639 THE GAZE ITE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26, 1959 /ASVINA 4. 1881 (PART IF 

- - - - - - -- 

- - - - - - - - = - = 
all, arose on account of the mazdoors not being acquainted with the practice, which 
was being followed by Shri Chot Ram . Further on the several dates , that are 

« ferred to in Ext. M , 7 there in no mention of deliveries of green gypsum . It is 
w likely inference, that no green gypsum was delivered on these dates . If so , it is 

riportant to note , that on 7th June, 1958 the delivery is 311 boxes of gypsum for 
40 mazdoors and on 11th June, 1958, 311 boxes for 53 mazdoors . I fail to sce how 
331 boxes of gypsum delivered on 9th June , 1958 , for 51 mazdoors is out of the 
i dinary . The delivery of 331 boxes of gypsum on 9th June, 1958, is quite con 

stent with that of dclivery of 311 boxes on 7th June , 1958 , and 11th June, 1958 , 
with practically the same number of mazdoors . The alleged discrepancy 19 
accounted for by the fact of delivery of 200 boxes extra green gypsum on 9th June, 
1958, which mav Dave been raised by the contractor on the preceding Sunday. 


10 . Another fact, to which my attention has been drawn, is , that the manage 
mcnt proceeded to rely upon the evidence of one Shri Ismail, whose statement was 
taken at the spot in the absence of Shri Verma. When he was examined at the 
lime of enquiry , in answers to cross - examination by Shri Verina , he went back 
on his statement, Attention is however diawii un behalf of the management to 
the fact, that certain measurements were taken on the 13th , and that shortage was 
discovered . There is nothing however to account for the delay between 9th and 
13th . There is no explanatiol as to why measurement were not taken on the 
9th or 10th . The alleged discrepancy in the measurement unaot be picssed into 
service against the workman du ny opinion , the charge , that the workman is 
guilty of dishonesty , and is trying to chcat the Company, iş without foundation , 
and is not supported by the evidence on record . The findings of the Enquiry 
Officer have been arrived at without sufficient basis for the same. Ţ And , that the 
charge against Shri Verma of disliviesty in connection with dealing with the 
Comuany s property is baseless on the evidence on record , and connot be support 
nd 


11. Even assuming for a moment, that there were certain discrepancies in the 
matter of delivery of boxes , the workman at the worst may be said to have been 
negligent in the discharge of his duty on the 9th . The termination of service of 
the workman for the alleged negligence on the 7th is entirely unjustified , and 
I am not prepared to up hold the same and it is ha sh and exci- ssive. It qught to 
be seen , that by the first order the workman was dismissed from service . It is only 
as a result of appcal, that the order was converted into one of termination of 
service. This termination of service is said to have been made under Stund .ng 
Order 22 ( 1) . I had occasion to deal with the Standing Orders in I. D . No. 3561959, 
and othc" petitions, and it was found in the judgment therein that no such 
standing order existed in the original standing orders, as certified . Moreover, atlen 
tion has been drawn on behalf of the workman to the provision in the standing 
order 22, that before resorting to dismissal, the management should seek leser 
forms of punishment. All circumstances considered , I find , that the discharge of 
Shri Verma is unlawful, and unjustified , and cannot be deemed to be bona fide 
and is accordingly set aside, 


12. The question next is with reference to the relief, to which the workman is 
entitled I see no sufficient grounds for declining the relief of re - instatment. So 
far as back wages are concerned , I am ot opinion , that he must be compensated for 
the loss of employment. The payment of three months emoluments would be 
sufficient compensation . I find , that Shri Verma shall recover from the manage 
ment three month full emoluments at the rate at which he was drawing the 
same at the time of termination of service. He is also entitled to continuity of 
service. 


II . Shri Mohabat Singh . 


13 . This workman was appointed as per Ext. M / 24 . It is important to note , 
that the period of service is from 5th February, 1958, to 4th April , 1958. There is 
further extension till 2nd July , 1958 , as is clear from Ext. M / 27. His servires 
came to an end automatically in the absence of further extension , Ext. M / 28 is 
the letter of termination . He was only a temporary worker, and he was not a 
permanent workman , as defined in the Standing Orders . The fact that his 
services were extended by three months, does not make him a permanent work 
man . On the terms of his employ .nent coming to an end , his services ceased 
automatically even without any letter of termination . This workman ha no 
reason to complain , and he is not entitled to any relief in this procreding . 


- 


- - 


Suc. $ (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 / ASVINA 4 , 1881 2620 
- = 

- - = - - 

-- - - - - - - - 
III. Shri Shera Meghwal. 

14 . According to the case of the workman , while he was tipping empty tubs in 
Quarzy No. 1, some gypsum fell in his eyes, which got scriously injured , No 
report of accident was Aled . No accident leave was granted to him . He was 
under the treatment of the Medical Officer of the Mines for nearly two months 
without improvement. The said Medical Officer sent him to Bikaner Hospital, 
The management however issued a charge - sheet dated 27th July , 1958. He 
submitted his explanation on 18th August , 1958. He was however discharged from 
service. It is alleged , that Shri A , C . Datta had agreed to arrange for payment of 
compensation to him , but that it was not done . The workman s case is , that not 
only is the discharge unlawful, and against the principles of natural justice, but 
that the management had also denied him payment of compensation under the 
-Workmen s Compensation Act . 

15 The case of the management is , that it is not true that Shri Shera got 
injured in his eyes in the course of his cmployment, while receiving gypsum , and 
while tipping a tub . On the contrary , he was suffering from bad eyes. He took 
leave with effect from 21st April, 1958. He attended to his duty on 24th April, 
1958. He was directed to take leave till he improved, and he went away on 25th 
April, 1958 . The further contention is , that Shri Shera was a labourer of a tram 
line Gang and was never doing the duty of emptying or tipping tuhs. The con 
tention on behalf of the management is , that, on account of his eye trouble , which 
was not caused while in the course of employment, but which existed from before , 
Shri Shera absented himself, and he was served with a charge - shcet for absen 
teeisin . It is alleged by the management at page 11 of the written - statement, that 
it is wrong to say , that Shri Shera s services were terminated , and at page 12 , that , 
when Shri Shera reported for work , he would be given work , provided he was 
able to do the same. In the re- joinder of the workman it is alleged , that Shri 
Schra lost his sight when he was on duty , and that, Whough the Managing Director 
agreed to pay compensation , it had not been paid . At page 9 of the re - joinder It 
is stated , that the management knew , that he was not fit for discharging his duties. 
It is clear from the re - joinder of the Union on behalf of the workman , that he is not 
At. Ext, M / 30 has been relied upon in this connection on behalf of the management 
On behalf of the workman the letters . Ext. W / 1 and 2 have been referred to . 
The charge - sheet is Ext . W / 3 , and Shri Shera was accused of continued absence . 
From the evidence on record , I am unable to hold , that Shri Shera was dismissed 
or discharged by the Company in any manner . On the contrary, Shri Shera hag 
been absenting himself continuously on account of his being unfit for work . The 
contention on behalf of the workman is, that he became unfit for work because 
of the accident of some gypsum falling into his eyes while tipping tubs . I do 
not wish to express any opinion on the question , whether this is true and whether 
the workman is entitled to compensation under the Workmen s Compensation Act 
" The workman may take such steps as are open to him in law , if he feels , that 
be is entitled to recover the same. For the purposes of the present proceeding 
it is sufficient to state , that Shri Shera has continuously and voluntarily absented 
himself, as alleged on behalf of the management. On his own showing . Is is 
clear from the allegations in the re - joinder, he is unft for work . There is no 
case made out for re - instatement or for back wages, as claimed on behalf of the 
workman , I find , that Shri Shera is not entitled to any relief in this proceeding. 


TV . Shri A . K , Mukerjee. 

16 . This workman was an electrician , who was employed by letter of the 
management dated 12th December 1956. He had been demoted to the post of 
Wireman by order dated 24th April 1958, because of his alleged mis -behaviour 
with certain women . 

17 . According to the management, the Mines Manager Shri Ghosh , gave a letter 
to Shri Shukla , a Chemist , employed in the Mines , on 2nd June 1958 . Shri Shukla 
tore -away the letter , and threw the pieces down , Shri Mukerjee walked into the 
Mines Manager s room , and picked up the pieces. Ext. M / 31 is the charge- sheet 
issued to Shri Mukerjee dated 16th June 1958. It is stated therein , that on 2nd 
June 1958 the acting Mines Manager, Shri Ghosh , reported , that Shri Mukerjee 
took - away certain important papers connected with the insubordination of Shri 
R . C . Shukla , and that this amounted to wilful insubordination under the Standing 
Orders . The workman was suspended torthwith , Ext. M / 32 is the reply to the 
charge -sheet , denying , that he had been guilty of insubordination . The manage 
ment were requested to refer to the letter dated 2nd June 1958. According to 
the statement of Shri Ghosh , made before the Enquiry Officer , just when Shri 
Shukla was going out through the door in his office leading towards the varandah , 


2640 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 / ASVINA 4 , 1881 


[PART jt 


Shri Anti Mukerjee entered the room with big eyes open towards him , as it 
with a hated look on him , and came near the table , collected the torn papers , 
which were thrown by Shri R . C . Shukla , and left the room , without saying 
anything. Even taking the above statement of Shri Ghosh to be correct, it is 
impossible to hold , that Shri Mukerjee is guilty of mis - conduct , Merely entering 
the Mine Manager s room and picking up certain torn papers , which had been 
torn by another workman , does not amount to insubordination . If Shri Mukerjee 
looked with big eyes this cannot mean that he is guilty of insubordination . No 
man can be punished for his looks, 

18 . Again , another important point is , that according to the statement in cross 
examination of Shri C . S . Ghosh the alleged incident happened on 3rd June 1958 , 
and it was at about 4 - 30 P . M . It is however important to note , that, according 
to the charge - sheet the incident took -place on 2nd June 1958 . The discrepancy 
in the date has been conveniently sought to be explained on the theory of there 
having been an error in giving the date of incident. I am not prepared to accept 
this explanation . The finding of the Enquiry Oncer in Ext. M / 34 is entirely 
baseless , and is not supported by the evidence . The order of termination of 
service by Ext. M / 35 against Shri Mukerjee is neither lawtul, nor justified , and 
it must be set aside . 

19. So far as the relief to be granted is concerned , I see no sufficient grounds 
for denying the relief of re - instatement. He is also entitled to compensation for 
forced unemployment. Three months full emoluments will be sufficient com 
pensation towards the same. The period between the date of termination of 
service and the date of re- instatement shall be treated as continuous service . 
Shri Sita Ram Aggarwal 

20 . The charge against this workman is , contained in the charge sheet Ext . 
M / 11 . He was accused of (1 ) wilful insubordination ( 11) dishonesty in connection 
with company s business and (iii) leaving work without permission , Ext. M / 12 
is the explanation . Ext . M / 13 is the record of enquiry . Ext. M / 14 contains the 
Andings of the Enquiry Officer . By Ext. M / 15 dated 2nd June 1958 this work 
man s services were terminated for being found guilty of (i ) leaving work without 
Permission (ii) dishonesty in connection with company s business . There is no 
Inention about his being guilty of the charge of wilful insubordination , 


21 . The contention on behalf of the workman is , that the above mentioned 
barges as contained in Ext. M / 15 , the order of discharge, are unfounded , and 
that the Enquiry Omcer s findings are baseless . First taking the question of 
dishonesty in connection with the Company s business , the Enquiry Officer states 
that the Time Keeper Shri A . M , Bhowmik punched Shri Sita Ram s attendance 
· ard for the second shift of 29th August 1958 at the request of Shri Rahim Shah . 
It is clear from the evidence of witnesses and particularly of Rahim Shah , mato 
that Shri Sita Ram was not present when his attendance card was punched by 
Shri Bhowmik . I fail to see how from this fact alone the charge of dishonesty 
can be pressed against Shri Sita Ram . The contention on behalf of the Union 
is , that it is the practice for Supervisors to get their attendance cards punched 
through labour mates . What is important to note is , that Shri Rahim Shah gave 
the card for punching to Shri Bhowmik and the latter punched it . If this amounts 
to dishonesty on the part of Shri Sita Ram , Shri Rahim Shah and Bhowmik are 
equally guilty . Tho evidence of Bhowmik is that he punched the card at the 
request of Rahim Shah even though Sita Ram was absent. This cannot ahsolve 
him from responsibility . If there was anything wrong with the practice of 
punching cards in the absence of the workman the management should take other 
steps for putting an end to the same and not by terminating the service of one 
of the workman alonc. It was for the Time-Keeper to satisfy himsell whether 
he should punch the card or not . On the facts of this case if Shri Bhowmik 
punched the card in spite of Shri Sita Ram not having been present, I am not 
able to hold that this amounts to proof of dishonesty on the part of Shri Sita 
Ram , in connection with the company s property . The finding about this charge 
Is baseless and the action of the management is not bona fide. 

21. Taking the charge of leaving work without permission , the case of the 
management is that Shri Sita Ram absented himself from work on 29th August 
1958 during the 2nd shift when he ought to have been on duty . The II shift 
was from 5 P . M . to 1 - 30 A . M . The finding of the Enquiry Officer is that this 
fact of absence from work has been proved by the evidence on record . The 
management went so far as to say that instead of attending to his work on 29th 
August 1958 in the evening Shri Sita Ram went away to Bikaner . The Enquiry 
Officer however Ands that it is not established on the evidence that Shri Site 
Ram left for Bikaner on 29th August 1958 . 


Stc . (U)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 /ASVINA 4, 1881 


2641 


- 


23 . The contention however on behalf of the workman is that he did attend 
to his duty on 29th August 1958 in the II shift, that however at about 6 P . M . 
he felt ill with stomach ache, and therefore left his place of work in the Quarry, 
and that he left a leave application Ext. M / 16, and went away from the place 
of his duty . This contention on behalf of the workman has not been accepted 
by the Enquiry Officer. I see no sufficient grounds for holding , that the finding 
that Shri Sita Ram was absent from his place of work on 29th August 1958 is 
baseless or is not supported by evidence on record . Even a witness examined 
for Sita Ram one Kirpal Singh has been obliged to admit that he did not see 
the Supervisor on that day . The finding that the workman left his work without 
permission must be accepted as true. 

24 . The question next is whether the action of the management in terminating 
the services of the workman should be up -held . I have found about that the 
charge of dishonesty in connection with the company s business is without basis . 
As argued on behalf of the workman , punishment by termination of service for 
absence from the II shift without permission on 29th August 1958 appears to 
be too harsh and excessive . In my opinion the action of the management In 
imposing this punishment cannot be supported , especially in view of Standing 
Order 22 which contemplates lesser types of punishment before removal from 
service is resorted to . It will be sufficient punishment if the workman is not 
paid any wages for the period between the date of removal from service and 
the date of re - instatement. I find that termination of service of Shri Sita Ram 
to not lawful and justifed , that he should be re -instated in service with continuity 
of service , but that he is not entitled to back wages or compensation . 
85 . Shri Tulsi Singh 

So far as this workman is concerned the charge against him is Ext . M / 17 . 
His explanation is Ext. M / 18 , Ext. M / 21 dated 27th September 1958 is the order 
of dismissal holding him guilty of the charges framed against him . The workman 
was found guilty of (1) slowing down of work and (ii ) wilful insubordination , 

26 . With reference to the charge of slowing down of work , on 16th June 1958 . 
it may be stated that another dumper driver Shri Abdul was also similarly 
charged and he too was dismissed from service by order dated 27th September 
1958 . I had occasion to deal with the case of the said Shri Abdul, and the charge 
against him of the slowing down of work on 16th of June 1958, 17 I. D . No. 8 / 59 . 
Both Abdul and Tulsi Singh were engaged on operation of Dumpers that day . 
It was found in the Award dated 29th July 1959, in ID . No . 8 of 1959 that Shri 
Abdul was not guilty of the charge of slowing down work , and consequent 
misconduct . , Practically the same evidence as against Abdul, has been relied 
upon in the case of Shri Tulsi Singh also , on behalf of the management, in support 
of the charge of slowing down of work , For the reasons given in ID . No. 8 of 
1959, with reference to Abdul, I am unable to hold that Shri Tulsi Singh is guilty 
of slowing down of work on 16th June 1958 . The Anding of the Enquiry Officer 
is not supported by the evidence on record , and as such the finding is baseless. 

27. The second charge against this workman is of wilful insubordination , 
because he allowed mazdoor Sunder Singh to Drive a Dumper without authorisa 
tion . The Enquiry Officer has found him guilty of this charge also . Shri Sunder 
Singh Khalasi stated in his cvidence, that when the Dumper of Abdul was Alled , 
he of his own accord removed it, and replaced it by Shri Tulsi Singh s Dumper 
He admitted that he was not authorised to do so . Generally Khalasi handle 
the Dumper for minor movement. Shri Sunder Singh further explained that 
Shri Tulsi Singh was standing about 10 paces away when he moved the Dumper . 
If Sunder Singh took it into his head , to remove the Dumper of Tulsi Singh of 
his own accord , in order to place it in the position of Abdul s dumper which 
had been Alled , I fail to see how Tulsi Singh can be held guilty of insubordina 
tion . Sunder Singh removed the dumper a short distance when Shri Tulsi Singh 
was standing 10 paces away. It is clear from the evidence that the management 
have prohibited the unauthorised handling of Dumpers by mazdoors, but in this 
particular case I am of opinion that Shri Tulsi Singh cannot be held to be guilty 
of insubordination in the circumstances stated above. I am unable to hold that 
on the evidence on record the charge of wilful insubordination is made out and 
the finding arrived at by the Enquiry Officer is baseless . 


28 . It is however pointed out that the workman was guilty of lapses in the 
past. The order of removal from service is much too severe and harsh . Even 
t he has been guilty of lapse of duty it is sufficient punishment to deprive him 
of back wages . I find that the order of dismissal against Shri Tulsi Singh should 
be set aside and that he should be re- instated in service . He will not be entitled 
to any back wages or compensation but will be entitled to continuity of service , 


be someo waseen 


- 2642 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 /ASVINA 4 , 1881 


(PART II 


- 


- 


29 . In the result an award is passed as follows: 

(i ) The order of termination of service passed against Shri Bhanwar Lal 
Verma is set aside, and the management of Messrs Bikaner Gypsums Limited shall 
re - instate him in service , and restore him to his old post, or equivalent post on 
the same terms and conditions as before. Within two weeks from the date when 
this award becomes enforceable , and the period bet-veen the date of removal 
from service and the date of re- instatement shall be treated as continuous service 
without break . The aforesaid management, shall also pay him , three months, 
emoluments at the rate at which he was drawing the same at the time of removal 
from service , towards compensation for forced unemployment. 

( ii ) The order of removal from service passed against Shri Sita Ram Aggarwal 
is set aside, and the aforesaid management shall re -instate him in service , aryl 
restore him to his old post , or equivalent post , on the same terms and conditions 
as before, within two weeks from the date when this award becomes enforceable , 
and the period between the date of removal from service and the date of re 
instatement shall not operate as a break in continuity of service . However , Shri 
Sita Ram Aggarwal will not be entitled to any back wages or compensation , 

( iii) The order of removal from service passed against Shri Tulsi Singh 18 
set aside, and the aforesaid management shall re -instate him in service and 
rcstore him to his old post, or equivalent post , on the same terms and conditions 
as bctore within two weeks from the date when this award becomes enforceable , 
and the period between the date of removal from service and the date of re 
instatement shall be treated as continuous service without break . This workman 
will not be entitled to any back wages or compensation , 

(iv ) The order of removal from service passed against Shri A , K . Mukerjee 
16 set aside, and the aforesaid management shall re - instate him in service and 
restore him to his old post, or equivalent post, on the same terms and conditiope 
as before, within two weeks from the date when this award becomes enforceable , 
and the period between the date of removal from service and the date of 
re -instatement shall be treated as continuous service without break . The atore 
said management shall pay to him three month s emoluments at the rate at which 
he was drawing the same at the time of removal from service towards compensa 
tion for forced unemployment. 

(v ) The workmen , Messrs Mohabat Singh and Shera (son of Heera ), are not 
entitled to any relief. 

( vl) There will be no order as to costs. 
(Seventeen pages ) 
The 24th August, 1959 . 

E KRIBANA MURTI, 
Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal, Delhi. 

( F . No. LRII /14 ( 14 ) /58 - ( II ) .) 
New Delhi, the 18th September , 1959 
8 . 0 . 2134 . In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal , Delhi, in the industrial dispute between the employers in rela 
tion to the Bank of Jaipur Limked , Delhi and their workmen . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DELHI 

PRESENT 
Shri E . Krishna Murti , Central Government Industrial Tribunal. 

10th September, 1959. 
I. D . No . 428 OF 1959 

BETWEEN 
The employer in relation to the Bank of Jaipur Limited , Delhi. 

AND 
Their workmen . 
Mr. T , N . Khanna -- for the management. 
Mr. H . L . Parvana - for the workmen , 


SEC . 8 ( 11 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 /ASVINA 4, 1881 2643 


AWARD 
By G . O . No. S .O . LRII- 10 ( 75 ) /59 dated the 17th June 1959, the industrial dis 
pute between the employers in relation to the Bank of Jaipur Limited , Delhi and 
their workmen , has been referred to this Tribunal for adjudication under seç 
tion 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947. 
2. The term of reference is as follows: 
Whether by virtue of duties performed and powers exercise by Shri Bhagoo 

mal, Head Cashier of the Delhi branch of the Bank of Jaipur Ltd ., 
he is a workman , entitled to the benefits of the Sastry Award and a 
supervisory allowance at the rate of Rs. 45 per month in terms of 

para 164 ( b ) thereof or he is an officer not entitled to these benefits . 
3 . The allegations in the statement of claim are , that Shri Bhagoomal the 
workman in question is employed as a Head Cashier , Bank of Jaipur Limited , 
Delhi Branch that the said I hagoomal made a representation requesting the grant 
of benefits due to him under the Bank Award, that the management did not take 
any action thereon , that the duties of Bhagoomal are as stated in the claim , that 
the Bank , however contended , that he was not a workman , that the duties of 
Shri Bhagoomal are of a clerical and supervisory nature , that he is a workman , 
and that he is entitled to all the benefits of the Bank Award . 

4 . The management contend , that Shri Bhagoomal has been an officer of the 
Bank , that he was not a party to the dispute before the Shastri Tribunal, that 
Shri Bhagoomal cannot be classed as a workman , that he is a full fledged officer 
of the Bank having directional and controlling authority over workmen in his 
department, that as he is not a party to the Sastry Award be cannot clain any 
benefit thereunder , that therc is no need to extend the benefits of the Award to 
him , that he is not performing duties of a clerk , and that he is not entitled to 
the relief claimed . 

5 . Both parties agreed before me that the issue is as in the term of reference. 

6 . At the time this dispute came on for hearing before me, both parties report 
ed settlement of the dispute , in terms of the compromise marked as Ext. M / 1 , 
which is in the following terms: 

MEMORANDUM OF SETTLEMENT 
" There has been a dispute between the Bank of Jaipur Ltd ., Delhi and the 
Bank of Jaipur Employees Union , Delhi relating to the payment of Special Allow 
ance to Shri Bhagoomal, an cmployee of Delhi branch . 

The said dispute was referred for adjudication to the Central Government 
Industrial Tribunal, Delhi, by Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and 
Employment vide its Notification No. LR . II - 10 ( 75 ) / 59 dated the 17th June, 1959 . 

As a result of the discussions the partics have since compromised the said dis 
pute on the following terms without prejudice to their contentions as to whether 
Shri Bhagoomal is a " Workman " or an " Officer " : 
1 . The Bank shall give two increments to Shri Bhagoomal in the present 

grade so as to bring his basic salary to Rs. 250 per month with effect 

from 1st July , 1959. 
2 . Consequently the dearness allowance payable to Shri Bhagoomal shall 

be fixed at Rs. 100 per month with effect from 1st July , 1959 , 
3 . In view of the foregoing the parties agrec to make a joint application 

to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Delhi to record this 
agreement and pass an award in terms thereof. 

For The Bank of Jaipur Ltd ., 
( Sd .) N . C . MEHRA , 

Agent. 
For The Bank of Jaipur Employees, Union , 

( Sd .) H . N . SINGH , Socy . 
7. The said compromise is accepted . 

8. In the result an award is passed in terms of the compromise set out above . 
Three pages. 

E . KRISHNA MURTI, 
10th September , 1959 

Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal, Delhi. 

[No. LRII- 10 ( 75 ) / 59 .] 


2644 THE GAZI ITE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 / ASVINA 1, 1881 [ Pars II 
= = = = - -- - - = 

= - - 
ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 18th September 1959 
S . O . 2135 , - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between Missrs Dalınla Cement ( Bharat ) Limited , Dalmiapuram 
Post Office , Tirichirappalli District and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hitretu annexed ; 

And whercas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by scction 7A and 
clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal 
of which Shri K Ramaswaniy Gounder , B . A ., M .L ., Retired High Court Judge , 
Madras, shall be the Presiding Officer , with headquarters at the First Line Beach , 
Madras 1, and refers the said disputa for adjudication to the said Industrial 
Tribunal, 

SCHEDULE 
1. Bonus for the year 1958 . 

2. Supply of amenities life uniforms, shoes or sandals , soap , pil , jaggery , hat, 
soda and cloth free of cost . 

3 . Payment of wages for the period of un - employment to 517 quarry workers 
who were dismissed during February March , 1958, and later reinstated as a 
result of the mutual settlement dated 8th March , 1958 . 

[ No. F . LR .II. 63 ( 97 /58.] 
New Delhi, the 21st September 1959 
S . O . 2130 . ---Whileas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute cxists between the employers in relation to the West Laikdih Colliery 
and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hercto 
annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clausc ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Governinent hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the In 
dustrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of the said Art. 

SCHEDULE 


( il Whether the managernent was justified in terminating the services of 

Shri K , K . Bakshi, Electric Supervisor , 
( ii ) If not, to what relief is he entitled and with effect from which date ? 

[No. F .LRII / 2 ( 154 ) /59. ] 

PYARE LAL GUPTA , Under Secy . 
New Delhi, the 18th Septeniber 1959 
S . O . 2137.- - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 of the Mica Mines 
Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1946 ( 22 of 1946 ), the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendments in the Mica Mines Labour Welfare 
Fund Rules, 1948 , namely : 

In the said rules, 
( 1 ) sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 20 shall be omittad ; 
( 2 ) after rule 20 , the following rulc shall be inserted, namely :- - 

“ 20A Conditions of serlice of persons appointed under section 5 of the Act . 
Until other provision is made in this behalf, persons appointed under section 5 of 
the Act shall be governed 
( a ) by such rules relating to conditions of service of Government servants 

generally as 11: ye been made applicable with or without modifications 


SLC. 3 ( ii)] THE GAZETTE OL INDIA : SLPTEMBER 241, 1959 / ASVINA 1, 1881 2645 
- - - - -- - - - 

to such persons, and as are in force imm diately before the date of 

issue of this Notification , and 
( b ) by such other rules relating to conditions of service of Government 

servants generally , as may, after the said date , be made applicable 
with modifications, if any , to such tersons by the Central 
Government. 

[No. MIII- 21( 1 ) / 59. ] 
A P . VEERA RAGHAVAN , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 19th September 1959 
SO 2138 . - In exercise of the powers ( onferred by sub -section ( 1 ) uf Section 
4 of the Dock Workers ( Regulation of Employment ) Act, 19 -18 ( 9 of 1948 ) , the 
Crntral Government hereby makes the following further amendment in the 
Calcutta Dock Workers ( Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1956 , the samo 
having been previously published as required by the Sauci sub - section , namely : 

Amendment 
In the said Scheme , 

( i ) In clause 46 , after sub - clause ( 4 ) , the following sub - clause shall be 
inserted , namely : 
" ( 4 - 1 ) . ( a ) Whcrc a worker has been suspended pending enquiry , he shall 

he paid for rach day of mispensiun a subsistence allowanie rquiva 
lent to the attendance allowance provided in clause 32 or one - fourth 
of his daily wage including learness allowance , whichever is greater ; 
provided that for the period of suspension in excess of a month , the 
Chairman may, in exceptional cases grant a highrr subsistence allow 
ancr hot nxveerling half the total daily wage including dearness 
allowance ; 


( b ) the subsistence allowance so paid shall not be recovcrable or liable 

to forfciture in any case whatsoever; 


( c ) where a worker is found not guilty , he shall he entitled to such pay 

monts in respect of the period of his suspension as the Administrative 
Body may certify that the worker would have received on the time 
rate basis or under clause 32 had he not been suspended , provided 
that the amounts so payable shall be reduced by the amount of 
subsistence allowance alrendy paid during that period ." 


( ii ) In clause 51, the following shall be inserted at the end nf sub clause ( 2 ) 
As item ( iii ) - 


" ( iii ) ( a ) Where a worker has been suspended pending enquiry, he shall 

he paid for each day of suspension a subsistence allowance equiva 
lent to the attendance allowance provided in lause 32 or onr - fourth 
of his daily wage including dearness allowance , whichrver is greator ; 
provided that for the period of suspension in excess of a month , the 
Chairman may , in exceptional cases grant a higher subsistence 
allowance not exceeding half the total daily wage including dearness 
allowance ; 


(b ) the subsistence allowance so paid shall not br recoverable or liable 

to forfeiture in any case whatsocver , 


( c ) where a worker is found not guilty , he shall be entitled to suh pay 

ments in respect of the person of his suspension as the Administrative 
Body mav certify that the worker would have received on the time 
rate basis or under clause 32 hard he not been suspended , provided 
that the amounts so payable shall be reduced by the amount of 
subsistence allowance already paid during that period ." 


[ No. Fac. 175 (72 ) 59.7 


2646 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA . SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 / ASVINA 4, 1881 


[PART II 


CORRIGENDUM 


New Delhi, the 19th September 1959 


S . O . 2139 . - In the notification of the Ministry of Labour and Employment 
No . 1717 , dated the 28th July , 1959 , published at page 1906 in the Gazette of India , 
Part 11 - Section 3 ( ii ) , dated the 1st August , 1959, under the heading "Members 
representing the Central Government , in item ( 3 ) , for the entry " Thc Deputy 
Labour Commissioner, Cochin " , read " The Deputy Labour Commissioner , 
Trivandrum " . 


[No . Fac. 180 (3 ) 
P . D . GAIHA , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 26th September 1959 
$ . 0 , 2140 - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 3 ) of section 5 
of the Tea Districts Emigrant Labour Act , 1932 ( 22 of 1932) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby determines that the rate of Emigrant Labour Cess to be levied under 
the said section in respect of the entry into Assam of cuch assisted emigrant shall 
bc rupees eight for the year commencing on the 1st October , 1959 and ending 
on the 30th September , 1960. 

[No. F . PL -21 ( 9 ) / 59 .) 


S . O . 2141 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 3 ) of section 1 
of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government 
hereby appoints the 27th September , 1959, as the dulc on which the provisions of 
Chapter IV (except sections 44 and 45 which have already been brought into 
force ) . Chapter V and Chapter VI ( except sub - section ( 1 ) of section 76 and sec 
tions 77, 78, 79 and 81 which have already been brought into forcel of the said 
Act shall come into force in the following areas of the State of Madhya Pradesh , 
namely : 


( i) The areas within the Municipal limits of Bhopal. 
( ii) The area within the limits of revenue village of Nagda, in Tehsil 

Khachrod , in Ujjain district. 


[No . F . HI- 13 ( 16 ) ] 


ORDER 


New Delhi, the 21st September 1959 


S . O . 2142 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73 - F of the 
Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby 
( xempts , for a further period of one year with effect from the 1st October , 1959 , 
from the payment of the employer s special contribution under Chapter V - A of 
the said Act, every factory 


( a ) which is exclusively engaged in one or more of the manufacturing 

processes specified in column 1 of the Table annexed hcreto or any 
other manufacturing process which is incidental to or connected with 
any of the aforesaid processes or in any other manufacturing process 
carried on in a scasonal factory of the nature referred to in clause 

( 12 ) of section 2 of the said Act ; and 
( b ) which is situated in any area specified in the corresponding entry in 

column 2 of the said Table , subject to the condition , if any , specified 
in the corresponding entry in column 3 of the said Table . 


$ £c . 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959/ ASVINA 4, 1881 2647 
-- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - = = 

TABLE 


Name of the Manufac 

turing Process 


Area where situated 


Conditions 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


I , Redrying unmanufactured 

leaf tobacco . 


2 . Rice Milling 
3 Cold storage 
4 , Salt inanufacture 
5 . Oil Mills 


Do . 
Do . 
Du . 
Du. 


-- - - -- - - 

- - - - - - - 
Whole of India except the 

Stacc of Jammu and Kash 
mir . 

Provided that the process of 

milling 18 sub -sidiary to 
any other manufacturing 
process which is scasoned 
and so long as the 
number of employees 
engaged in oil milling 

is less than fifty . 
The State of Punjab , Uttar 
Pradesh , Rajasthan , Ma 
dhya Pradesh , Bihar und 
Andhia Pradesh and the 
Union tcititories of Delhi 
and Himachal Pradesh , 


6 


Icc manufacture 


[ No. HI-6 ( 155 ) /59.] 
BALWANT SINGH , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, thi 22ric September 1959 
S . O . 2131. - - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 
( 14 of 1947 ) the Central Government hereby publi hes the following Award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay , in the industrial dispute between Messis 
Tulsidas Khhimji, Bumbay and their workmen . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT 

BOMBAY 

REFERENCE ( CGIT ) No . 7 OF 1959 
In the matter of M / s. Tulsidas Khhimji, Bombay. 

AND 
Their Workmen . 

PRESENT; 

Shri F . Jeejeebhoy , Presiding Officer , 
APPEARANCES: 

Shri P . P . Khambatta , with 
For the Employers 

Shri A . T . Joshi. 

Shri N . V . Phadke and 
For the Workomen 

Shri S . Karkal, Advocates , 
Sh ! ı $ . R . Kulkarni, Secretary , Transport and Deck Workers Union . 

AWARD 


By Its Order dated 28th February 1959 the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Labour and Employment rcfeirerl to this Tribunal a dispute between 
the frṁ of Messrs . Tulsidas Khhimji on the one hand and their workmen on 
the other concerning the retrenchment of 16 employees named in the Reference. 
The Tribunal has been asked to adjudicate whether the concern was justified in 


2618 THE GAZETIL OF INDIA : SEP I EMBER 20 , 1954 / ASVINA 4 , 1881 [Pars II 
. - - - = = = 

= - - - - 

- 
retrenching the 14 clerks and the two peons on 15th November , 1958 , and whether 
the proper procedure was adopted in retrenching them . 

2. The firm of Messrs, Tulsidas Khhimjı of Bombay carries on four different 
kinds of business . Firstly , they are clearing the forwarding agents ; secondly , 
they have godowns which they use whenever so required for the goods which 
they clear or are forwarding ; and they also let out space in the godowns on 
hire ; thirdly , there is a very small insurance department; and fourthly , there 
is a cotton department in which the concern acts us Controllers for the East 
India Cotton Association ; as such Controllers tliey draw samples of the cotton 
and seal them , and after the samples huve been approved by the East India 
Cotton Association , the balcs are removed by the owners under the escort of 
this concern to the dock gates. 

3 . A preliminary objection was raised that I cannot take into consideration 
this cotton department because its activities are outside that Port arca , and 
the Central Government Reference would not be valid for any area outside 
the Port. I said in a previous award concerning the bonus payable by this 
concern that it may well be that the workmen of the cotton control depart 
ment were not covered by that Reference , but it had become a truism that if 
certain workmen of a concern are given honus it is difficult to deny such 
honus to the rest, and I held that persons claiming bonus then hefure me 
were the cmployees including clerks of all the departments cxcept that of 
the cotton control work . The position in the case before me however is 
different. as I shall later discuss . 

4 . In effecting this retrenchment the company has adopted the principle of 
retrenchment department-wise , and in each of the departments they have 
l etrenched certain clerks on the principle of last come first 90 within the 
denartment In the cotton control department there has been no retrenchment. 
Labour however contends that all the clerical cadre of all the departments and 
also its herd office should have been taken into consideration as one whole 
establishment for the purpose of effecting retrenchn ). nt on the principle of 
lust come first go according to categories like clerks and peons, Labour says 
that the conrern is indivisible , that the departments are kept apart merely for 
the sake of convenience , that while separate accounts are krpt for cach depart 


purposes of the concern as a whole , like income- tax . 

5 . Lubour had challenged the necessity for the retrenchment, but that is no 
longer 8 livr issue ; and the contest before this Tribunal has contred on the 
question as to whether the retrenchment should be department-wise , or by 
taking the entire staff of all the departments and head offre together for the 
purpose of retrenchment. 

6 . Matters relating to this Reference have been carefully cxamined at the 
hearing , and one of the partners of the concern has heen examined in respect 
of the various facts of the problem It appears from his evidence that each of 
the four departments is under the charge of a partner of the concern who 
normally would have under him the head of the department. The partner in 
charre of a particular department selects and appoints his own personnel with 
out consulting any other department or the head omerBut a new recruit is 
generally tried out for about 18 months before he is confirmed in his depart 
ment, and it in that period he is found unsuitable an effort is made to give 
him a chance in one of the other departments ; and if he is still found wanting 
he is removºd . The rompany has a good record of monagement ; it has been 60 
years in existence , and there are on its rolls clerks who have been in the concern 
for over 35 vears. There was an agreement with the union on 26th October 
1957 when an omnibus settlement was effected giving considerable benefits to 
the employees. 


7 A7 ropards the actual management, cach partner looks after his own 
department and the accounts are kept separately at the head once , but they 

rn ultimately amalgamated inter alia for the purposes of the income- tax payable 
by the concern and no doubt also for the general purposes of the partnership . 

8 . There is some affinity between the work of clraring and forwarding 
department and of the provision of godowns, but it has been pointed out that 
only 25 % of the godown space is used for the purposes of forwarding and 
Claring, and that the rest of the space of the godowns is let out to others , 
Insurance is nso a separate department and very little insurance is effected in 
respect of the clearing and forwarding departments ; cotton control work of 


SEC . 3 ( ii )] 


THE GAZETIE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959/ ASVINA 4 , 1881 2640 


course is different from the other three . Without doubt all thesc four depart 
ments constitute one business, and as happens in a concern carrying on different 
lines of work , the clerks of a particular department naturally acquire knowledge 
and experience of their particular work . They are inducted into that department 
and improve in experience with the passing of years , and the company has 
been recognising Seniority according to departments . The case of the workmen 
huwuver is that the ployees of the four departments are interchangeable , and 
that wheli a clerk from onc department is sent to another department he carries 
witli him his seniority starting from the date of his entry into the concern . 

9 . In support of its casc labour has produced a statement, exhibit 4 , in 
Wliich 47 persons are shown as having belonged to a particular department and 
as having been subsequently transferred to another department. The contenu 
of Exhibit 4 have been analysed and examined . In the case of Nos . 2 , 7 , 19 , 
21, 34 , 44 and 45 there have been no transfers , because these persons were 
appointed after the initial probationery period . Numbers 22 and 35 have no 
been identified and we must assume that they do not exist. Nos . 39 and 40 
do not present any problem bec : use it is not in dispute that thcy are the 
junior -moit in the giuile . As regards 23 , 29 , 41, 43 , 46 , 42 and 1 they are shown 
de supervisory heads and therefore their transfer from one department to 
another does not affect the question , Nos . 8 , 9 , 10 , 11, 12 , 13 , 28 , 30 , 31 , 32 , 33 , 
36 , 33 and 47 are not transfers from department to department although they 
are transfers within a department; Nos . 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 24 , 25 , 26 and 27 are those 
persons who were transferred to other sections on account of lack of work and 
pending retrenchment. Thus only Six persons remain who have been trans 
ferred for some reasons ul other fiom ont department to another and they are 
Nos , 14 , 15 , 16 , 17, 18 and 20 ; I shall discuss their cases because it is upon these 
cases that labour has based its arguinents of interchangeability of clerks within 
the departments . 


10 . No. 14 has been working in tlic godown department for 10 years, having 
been transferred from the cotton department, but the partner who gave evidence 
did not have personal knowledge as to how long he had been in the cottoni 
department belort: his transfer to godowns, and apparently there are no records 
available with the concern to help in this inatter . If labour attached any 
importance to this matter they would have produced these six persons to give 
evidence as to the particulars of their transfer , but that has not been done. As 
regards No. 15 he joined the cotton department in 1947 and he has been work 
ing in the godown department now for over 5 years , and the partner was not 
able to say why he was transferred to the godown department, No. 16 joined 
tie cotton department in 1942 but he has been over 10 years in the godown 
departinent. No . 17 joined the firm in 1945 but the witness was not able to 
say to which department No. 17 was originally appointed, but No. 17 has been 
over 9 years in the godowli department. No . 18 joined the cotton department in 
March 1951, and was transferred to godown two ycars ago , and it is said that 
this was due to insufliciency of work in the cotton dcpartment. No. 20 has been 
for 12 years in the godown department but it is possiblc that he was transferred 
from the cotton department, and the partner who gave cvidence was not able to 
give any details , 

11 . Labour is rcally conccrned in this Reference with 12 persons, in - as -much 
as Barivallabh Bhat and Gajanan Sivasankar havc resigned , and there is no 
sustainable claim as regards the two peons, Labour contends that although No. 
18 was appointed in 1951 in cotton and transferred two years ago to godown, at 
that time new Clerks were appointed to the cotton department in 1956 . It is 
correct that in 1956 six persons were appointed to the cotton department; but 
the partner has added that numbers 14 to 20 of exhibit 4 were persons trans 
ferred froni cotton department to godown department at different times because 
they were better suited for godown work , and he has also stated that transfers 
Iron cotton department to other departments were generally oncasioned by 
lack of work in the cotton department. To this labour replies that Nos. 15 , 16 
atud 17 had been for a number of years in their respective departments before 
being transfcrred . 


12. Labour has other grievances as regards the persons selected for retrench 
ment and says that superannuated persons have been kept in the firm while 
The younger ones are being retrenched . That statement is not quite correct ; 
thcre is an agreement between the company and the union which the retire 
ment age which would be normally 60 years has been extended and the cmplo 
years have the discretion to keep an employee beyond that age. I do not think 
that it can be legitimately put forward as an argument that these persons 
should be the first to go having regard to the agreement. It is also said that 


2650 THE GAZFTTE OF INDLA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 /ASVINA 4, 1881 PART II 
= = - = 

- - = = - - - - 

= - = 
one Shri Frandes was retrenched and then re - employed and sent to Poona . 
That is coriuct, but the firm has explained that Shri Fernandes was sent to look 
after the godown at Poona , because he was considered suitable for the purpose 
the previous incumbent having been twice charge - sheeted and dismissed ; and 
the employers add that the Government had declined to accede to the request 
of labour that the dismissed employee s case should be referred to adjudication , 

13. Shri Khambatta for the concern says that the persons employed in the 
cotton department do a specialised job , and that the taking and examining of 
cotton samp. es required special knowledge. Nos , 26 and 27 of exhibit 4 were 
tried for cotton work and were found wanting ; there was no lack of work in 
the cotton department at the time of retrenchment. The employers contend 
that transfers are made only if a person is unsuitable for a particular work and 
is for that reason giyen a chance in any other department. When asked to 
explain the transfers of persons who had been in a particular department from 
6 to 10 years , Cousel for the employers says that for want of records it is difficult 
to answer that question , but the union had the opportunity of getting those 
persons here to explain the circumstances of their transfers , and they did not do so . 
The management maintains that no clerks are transferred merely for 
exigencies of work , that transfers are very rare as will appear from the number 
of cases cited by labour in respect of a firm of 60 years standing ; and they also 
say that it is not easy to interchange between the cotton department and the 
other department because the cotton department is concerned with the quality 
of cotton and the persons in that department must have some knowledge of 
cotton . The management contends that selection should be among equals, and 
they look upon the work of the cotton department on the one hand and of the 
other departments on the other as dissimilar , and they also look upon the work 
of the clearing and forwarding department as different in practice and in 
essentials to the work of the godown department. 

14 . The fact remains that there are just six cascs of transfers in this firm of 
About 60 ycars standing which can be brought forward to establish the practice 
that there is interchangeability of the 175 clerks in the four departments of the 
concern . I am unable to deduce from the transfer of these six clerks any policy 
of interchangeability of clerks within the departments of this concern ; and it may 
be added that in respect of at least three out of the six persons who were trans 
ferred the company was able to show good grounds. 

15 . The enactment relevant to the question before me is Section 250 . - " Where 
Any workman in an industrial establishment who is a citizen of India is to be 
retrenched and he belongs to a particular category of workmen in that establish 
ment in the absence of any agreement between the employer and the workman 
in this behalf, the employer shall ordinarily retrench the workman who was the 
last person to be employed in that category , unless for reasons to be recorded the 
employer retrenches any other workman . 

18 . The section speaks of an " Industrial establishment” . But the term has 
not been defined, and it may well mcan a Section of workmen in an industrial 
establishment as has been stated by the High Court of Madras in the case of 
India Tyre and Rubber Company (India ) ( Private ) Ltd ., and their workmen 
( 1957 II LLJ 506 at page 509 ) . 


17 . In a case of the kind before me it is necessary to determine whether the 
departments were kept so aloof that retrenchment must necessarily proceed 
department-wise . There is no doubt that the clearing and forwarding depart 
ment is different to the cotton control department. Both of these are in turn some 
what different to the godown department where 75 per cent of the space is hired 
out to outsiders . The insurance department is small. The accountants and 
cashierg at the head office deal with the daily accounts and moneys of all the tour 
departments . The workers of each department have their own cadres of seniority 
according to departments . Therefore it is not altogether unreasonable to regard 
each of such departments as an establishment in itself for the purpose of deciding 
upon the persons to be retrenched ; retrenchment has been necessitated as a result 
of fall in business in the clearing and godown departments ; before retrenchment 
there were 24 clerks in the docks department and 45 in the godown department; 
they have been reduced to 17 and 39 ; and the rest of the departments have 
remained unchanged , and if retrenchment was made by taking the junior-most 
clerks of the entirc number of clerks of the various departments of the concern 
it might well lead to the situation where the first people to be retrenched would 
be from the cotton department which does not require any retrenchment, and 
also from the accounts department at the head offce which does not belong to 
any of the four departments . 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 /ASVINA 4, 1881 2631 


18 . A decision on the issue referred to me is not easy . Without doubt it is 
desirable that a meaning should be attached to the word " establishment" which 
would signify a single body of employees working in concert who would be having 
within themselves a certain degree of homogeniety . It can well happen that in 
an establishment there are several separate departments like cotton textiles , jute , 
timber , grain , and if retrenchment were to take place in a concern of this charac 
ter it would normally mean retrenchment according to seniority from amongst 
the entire staff of a particular category. There is furthermore the evidence of 
the partner to the cffcct that the persons within a department take seniority inter 
se and that their senioriy is not governed by the general seniority of all the clerks 
of the firm . But if a transfer does take place , the person transferred takes with 
him his seniority in his department to the department to which he is transferred , 
And in such case the position appears to be neither stable nor logical 

19 . I realise that there is much to be said for both points of view now before me, 
and in the absence of any other criteria certain broad principles must be applied in 
determining this question . The question is ultimately referable to the word 
" Industrial establishment” in Section 24G of the Industrial Disputes Act. The 
case before me is different from the case of a company which has offices in differ 
ent places in India or may be offices in different towns in Bombay Slate . In such 
case there would ordinarily be a preference for the view that retrenchment should 
proceed according to separate units at the different centres rather than on the 
Application of a blanket system of seniority covering all the employees all over 
India . The situation does become different where workmen belong mostly to the 
same locality and have a resultant homogeniety of service . In the case before 
me the business of the concern is conducted at the head office where all the part 
ners carry on their business . The Arm has departments , and it mans the depart 
ments with suitable clerical staff which is mainly recruited from the local area . 
Each of the partners is in charge of a department, but nevertheless he is conduct 
Ing the business of the concern ; it may be that the workmen are recruited by the 
partners of a department for the department itself, but there are instances where 
persons recruited in one department are found unsuitable and are sent to another 
department, or where persons having worked in a particular department for a 
number of years are transferred to another department for special reasons. Such 
transfers have been few and far between , and no particular inference as to policy 
can be drawn from them , but the fact remains that some transfers have in fact 
taken place . The principal feature is that of a single business with a single office 
with different activities within the city of Bombay , and the persons employed for 
thc purposes of this business are clerks and peons who , at the stage of recruit 
ment at any rate , cannot be said to require any special qualifications for the posts . 
It has been said that the cotton control department requires men with specialised 
knowledge, but no sufficient evidence has been led to substantiate this point, and 
it does not seem likely that the newly recruited clerks of the cotton control 
department, whose scale of pay is exactly the same as that of any other clerk , 
would be required to have any special qualifications when being inducted into 
the cotton control department. In my opinion conditions are not present here 
which would justify my holding the departments of the concern as different 
industrial establishments for the purposes of retrenchment, and I hold that for 
the purposes of Section 25G of the Act the whole business is a single industrial 
establishment, and that the retrenchment must proceed upon the basis of last 
come first go from amongst the whole clerical cadre and the peons respectively . 

20 . There is no dispute that the peons here would in any event be regarded as 
correctly retrenched . There is also no dispute that on this principle Shri Pravin 
Badhika and Shri D . H . Palav havo been validly retrenched . 

21 . As regards the others, the retrenchment must be regarded as having 
procecded on a wrong principle and such retrenchment must be set aside. 

22. The employer shall ordinarily retrench the workman who was the last 
person to be employed in the category in the whole establishment, unless for 
reasons to be recorded the employer retrenches any other workman ; the re 
employment of Shri Fernandes in Poona godowns and the refusal of the concern 
to retrench him would be a valid exception . 

23 . It follows that the following persons have been wrongly retrenched , and 
they must be taken back as if they had never been retrenched , provided that 
within a fortnight of the publication of this award they pay back to the concern 
any moneys received by way of provident fund or gratuity or compensation : - 

1. Shri K . S . Mahadik , 
2 . Shri Liladhar Paniya, 
3 Shri P . S . Salunke. 


2652 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 /ASVINA 4 , 1881 


(PART II 


4 . Shri Dungarji C . Ashar , 
5 . Shri Vasanji Kalyanji. 
6 . Shri Namdeo Ayaroji. 
7 . Shri Kashinath Kabal. 
8 . Shri Dakhonde. 
9. Shri N . V . Hatkar . 
10 . Shri M . S . Parab . 
24 . As regards the contention that the cotton control department is outside 
the purview of a Reference by the Central Government, the question does not 
arise for determination and I am not making any order of retrenchment of the 
cotton control workers. It may be that as a result of this award , the concern may 
proceed to retrench certain clerks from the cotton control department. What I 
have hela amounts to this , that a wrong principle has been applied in the retrench 
ment of the persons before me, and therefore some of them are entitled to rein 
statement. I may however add that in determining this question notice has heen 
given to all the employees of the concern , including those of the cotton depart 
ment. The Union says that all the workmen of this concern desire that retrench 
ment should procecd establishment-wise , and not by departments as had been 
done, and no workman has come before this Tribunal to oppose that view . 

25 . Now therefore I make this award in terms aforesaid . 
The 31st August , 1959. 

(Sd.) F . JEEJEEBHOY , 

Presiding Oncer , 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay . 


[ No. LR . IV - 28 ( 5 )/ 59. ] 
A . L . HANDA, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 19th September 1959 
S . O . 2144 . - In pursuance of sub rule ( 2 ) of rule il ard clause ( b ) of sub rule 
( 2 ) of rule 14 and sub rule ( 1 ) of rule 23 of the Central Civil Services (Classi 
fication , Control and Appcal) Rules, 1957, the President hereby makes the follow 
ing additions in the Schedule to the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No. S . R . O . 018 dated the 28th 
February , 1957, namely : — 

( 1) In part I of the said Schedule after the existing entrics, the following 
shall be inserted , namely , 


- 


INTEGRATED PHOTO UNIT 
Allpots 


All ? 


Secretary Ministry of In - Secretary Ministry of In 

formation and Broad formation and Broad 
çasting . 

casting 


( 2 ) In Part II of the said Schedule after the existing entries, the following shall 
be inserted , namely : 

- - - - 
2 


L 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


INTEGRATED PHOTO UNIT 
All posts . , Chief Photo Officer 


Chief Photo Oficer 


A11 


, Deputy Secretary 

Ministry of Infor 
mation and Broad 
casting " 


-- - -- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- . 


SEC . 8 (1 )] 


, 


GA 


OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26 , 1959 / ASVINA 4, 1881 2653 


( 3 ) In Part III of the said Schedule , after the existing entries, the following 
shall be Inserted , namely : 


" INTEGRATED PHOTO UNIT 
All posts . . Chief Photo Officer 


Chief Photo Officer 


AL 


, Deputy Secretary 

Ministry of In 
formation and Broa 
dcasting " 


[No. 1 / 27 / 59 - IPUT 
A , M . K . SWAMI, Under Secy . 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 21st September 1969 
S . O . 2145 . - The Central Government hereby : 
( a ) directs , in pursuance of the provisions of the Order of the Govern 

ment of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No. 
S . R . O . 3805, dated the 26th December, 1955 and in modification of 
the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Informa 
tion and Broadcasting No, S . O . 1475 dated the 27th June, 1959 that 
the Advisory Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors at Calcutta 
would consist of 21 members with effect from 11th July , 1959 

and shall consist of 22 members with immediate effect ; 
( b ) notifies for general information that Shri R . M . Chatterjce , a member 

of the Advisory Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors at 
Calcutta ceased to be a member of the panel with effect from 11th 
July 1959 under sub - rule ( 4 ) of rule 9 of the Cinematograph (Cen 

sorship ) Rules, 1958 , on account of death ; and 
( c ) appoints Dr. Gaurinath Sastri as member of the Advisory Panel of 

the said Board at Calcutta with immediate effect in exercise of the 
powers conferred by sub -rule ( 3 ) of rule 8 read with sub - rule ( 4 ) 
of rule 9 of the Cinematograph ( Censorship ) Rules, 1958 . The ap 
pointment is up to 14th March , 1960 . 

[ No . F .11 /3 / 59 - FC . 1 
D . R . KHANNA, Under Secy . 


PAINTED IN INDIA BY TAY GENERAL MANAGER , GOVT. OF INDIT PRE 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1959 


Sec. 3 ( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26, 1959/ PAUSA 5 , 1881 


3497 


- 


- 


- 


NO 
: 


Name and address of Member 


Interest represented 


Chairman /Member 


technical knowledge 


Member 


12 Shri J. J. Mehta , Worke Manager, The Na- 

tional Rayon Corporation Ltd ., Mohonc, 

Kalyan , (Bombay ). 
13 Shri K . Vyasulu , Chief (Industry ) Palaning 

Commission , Novo Delhi, 


Do. 


14 Dr . A . N . Kapur , Development Officer, De 

velopment Wing , Udyog Bhavan , Nero 
Delhi. 


Do . 


Do. 


Bhavani, Den 


I5 


Do, 


Shri B . B , Bhalla , Deputy Technical Director, 
National Productivity Council, 38 , Golf 
Links, New Delhi, 


16 


Shri N . K . S . Tengar, Duvelopment Officer, 

Development Wing, Udyog Bhayun , Nero 
Delhi. 


Do. 


17 Shri J. T . Lawanı, President, Federation of " Consumers " 

Paper Traders Assosciations of India , 
$ 4 , Sutar Chawl, Bombay - 2 . 


and ( b ) two other members to be hercafter specified by the Central Gover 

ment who will be persons capable of representing the interests of 
persons employed in industrial undertakings in the said scheduled 
industries. 


2 . The Central Government hereby assigns the following functions to the said 
Development Council, namely - 


( 1 ) Recommending targets for production , co - ordinating production pro 

grammes and reviewing progress from time to time. 


( 2 ) Suggesting norms of efficiency with a view to eliminating waste , 

obtaining maximum production , improving quality and reducing costs . 


( 3 ) Recommending measures for securing the fuller utilisation of the 

installed capacity and for improving the working of the industry , 
particularly of the less efficient units . 


( 4 ) Promoting arrangements for better marketing and helping in the 

devising of a system of distribution and sale of the produce of the 
industry which would be satisfactory to the consumer . 


( 5 ) Promoting standardisation of products . 


( 6 ) Assisting in the distribution of controlled materials and promoting 

arrangements for obtaining materials for the industry, 


( 7 ) Promoting or undertaking inquiry as to materials and equipment and 

as to methods of production , management and labour utilisation , 
including the discovery and development of new materials , equipment 
and methods and of improvements in those already in use , the assess 
ment of the advantages of different alternatives and the conduct of 
experimental establishments and of tests on a commercial scale . 


( 8 ) Promoting the training of persons engaged or proposing engagement 

in the industry and their education in technical or artistic subjects 
relevant thereto , 


3498 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1959 /PAUSA 5 , 1881 


[PART IT 


( 9 ) Promoting the retraining in alternative occupations of personnel 

engaged in or retrenched from the industry . 


( 10 ) Promoting or undertaking scientific and industrial research , research into 

matters affecting industrial psychology and research into matters 
relating to production and to the consumption or use of goods and 
services supplied by the industry . 


( 11 ) Promoting improvements and standardisation of accounting and costing 

methods and practice . 


( 12 ) Promoting or undertaking the collection and formulation of statistics , 


( 13 ) Investigating possibilities of decentralising stages and processes of 

production with a view to encouraging the growth of allied small 
scale and cottage industries . 


( 14 ) Promoting the adoption of measures for increasing the productivity of 

labour , including measures for securing safer and better working 
conditions and the provision and improvement of amenities and 
incentives for workers . 


( 15 ) Advising on any matters relating to the industry ( other than remunera . 

tion and conditions of employment) as to which the Central Govern 
ment may request , the Development Council to advise and 
undertaking inquiries for the purpose of enabling the Development 
Council so to advise , and 


( 16 ) Undertaking arrangements for making available to the industry informa 

tion obtained and for advising on matters with which the Development 
Councils are concerned in the exercise of any of their functions. 


[No. 4 ( 72 ) IA (II) ( G ) / 59 .] 
K , C . MADAPPA , Dy . Secy . 


ORDER 


New Delhi, the 17th December 1959 


S . O . 2831. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendments in the Cotton Textiles ( Production by Handloom ) 
Control Order 1956 , namely : 


In the said Order in clause 6 ; — 


( 1) in sub -clauses ( 1) and (2 ) for the date " 31st March , 1960 " , the date 

" 31st March , 1981" shall be substituted ; 


(2 ) in the Explanation , for the date " 1st April , 1960 " , the date " 1st April 

1961" shall be substituted . 


[No, 4 (62) - Tex ( C ) / 58 . ] 
A . G . V . SUBRAHMANIAM , Under Secy . 


Bro . O (U )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1959 / PAUSA 8, 1881 


9499 


- 


ORDERS 
New Delhi, the 19th December 1959 


S . O . 2832 .- - In pursuance of rule 9 of the Development Councils (Pro 
cedural) Rules , 1952 , made under Section 6 of the Industries (Development and 
Regulation ) Act, 1951, the Central Government hereby ratifies the appointment 
of Shri Abhijit Sen , Co - Director of M / s . Sen Raleigh Industries of India Ltd ., 
Calcutta , as a substitute to take the place of Shri Sanjoy Sen , Technical Director, 
Sen Ralcigh Industries of India Ltd ., Mercantile Buildings, Calcutta , a non - official 
member of the Development Council for Scheduled industry engaged in the 
manufacture and production of bicycles , for the purpose of attending the meeting 
of the Bicycles Panel and the meeting of the full Development Council held in 
New Delhi on the 9th and 10th November , 1959 respectively . 


[No. 4 (51) IA ( II ) (G ) /59. ] 
New Delhi, the 21st December 1959 


$ . O . 2833 / DRA / 6 / 5 . - In exercise of the powers conterred by section of the 
Industries (Development and Regulation ) Act , 1951, ( 65 of 1951 ) , the Central 
Government hereby appoints Captain M . K . Lele , Director of Electrical Engi 
neering, Naval H , Qrs ., New Delhi, as a member of the Development Council 
established by the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Com 
merce and Industry S . O . 957 / IDRA / B / 5 dated the 28th April, 1959, for the 
scheduled industries engaged in the manufacture and production of Electric 
Motors and machinery and equipment for the generation , transmission and dis 
tribution of electric energy ( excluding house service meters and panel instru 
ments ) and directs that the following amendments shall be made in the said 
Order , namely : 

In paragraph 1 of the said Order after entry No. 19A relating to Shri T . S Rao, 
" the following shall be inserted , namely : 


“ 19 B . Captain M . K . Lele, Director of Electrical Engineering, Naval H 

New Delhi - Consumers Member ” . 


Q ., 


[No . 4 (74 ) IA (II) ( G ) / 58 .] 


A . K . CHAKRAVARTI, Under Secy . 
( Indian Standards Institution ) 

New Delhi, the 16th December 1959 
SJO . 2834 .- - In pursuance of sub -regulations (2 ) and (3 ) or regulation 3 ofthe Indian Standard 
Institution ( Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955 , the Indiun Standards Institution hereby noti 
fice that the Indian Standards , particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed , have 
been established during the period ist to 15th December 1959 . 


THE SCHUDULE 


Si , 
No. 


No. And title of the Indian 

Standard established 


Brief Particulare 


No. and title of the 

Indian Standard or 
Standards, if any, su 
perseded by the new 
Indian Standard 


(3 ) 


I 


IS : 20 - 1959 Specification for 

Cast Aluminium and Alumini - 
um Alloy for Utensils 
( Second Revision ). 


IS : 20 - 1953 Cast Al- This standard covers the require 
uminium for Utenolls ments for aluminium and alu . 
( Ravised ), 

minium alloy meant for the 
manufacture of cast utensils . 
Price Rs. 1 50 ), 


2400 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26, 1950 /PAUSA $, 1881 


[PART II 


(4 ) 


2 


I $ : 422- 1959 Specification for 

Bress Sheet and Strip for the 
Manufacture of Utensils . 


This Standard covers the rc 
quirements for the following 
two gradce of brags sheet and 
strip suitable for the manufac 
ture of houschold utensils 
and general brass hollow 

ware : 
Grade Bs 60 A for machine pres 

sing, and Grade Bg 60 B for 
hand -worked articles . (Price 
Rs. 2 . 00 ). 


3 


This standard (Part III) applica 

to : 


IS : 722 ( Part III) - - 1958 Speci 

fication for AC Electricity Me 
ters - - Part III Three - Phase 
Whole - Currept and Transfor 
mer- Operated Meters , and 
Single - Phage Two -Wire Trans 
former- Operated Meters . 


(a ) whole -current and trans 

former - operated kilowatt 
hour meters for unbalanced 
load for use in 3 - phage 3 
wire and 3 - phase 4 -wire 

supplies , and 
(b ) transformer - operated kilo 

watt -hour meters for use 
in single - phage z -wire 
supplies . (Price Rs. 3 .00 ). 


4 


IS : 907 - 1959 Specification for 

Suction Strainers, Cylindrical 
and Shoc Types, for Fire 
Fighting Purposes. 


This standard lays down the 

requirements regarding ma 
terials , shape and dimonsions, 
and construction of suction 
strainers , cylindrical and shoe 
types , attached to suction in 
lets of hoge lines . ( Price Rs. 
2 .00) . 


5 


I $ : 930 - 1959 Specification for 

Extension Ladders for Fire 
Fighting Purposes . 


This standerd lays down the 
requirements regarding ma 
terial, design , construction , 
workmanship and finish , and 
acceptance tests of extension 
ladders for fire fighting pur 
poses. (Price Rs. 1 . 50 ) . 


6 


IS : 944 - 1959 Specification for 

18 00 - 1 /min ( or 400 - gal/min ) 
Trailer Pump for Fire Briga 
de Uge . 


This standard lays down the 

requirements regarding ma 
terial, design and construction , 
workmanship and finish , and 
Acceptance tests of 1800 /min 
Cor 400 - gal/min ), trailer pump 
for fire brigade use . (Price Ra. 
2 00 ). 


7 


IS : 1239- 1958 Specification for 

Mild Steel Tube8 kpd Tubu 
lars . 


This standard covers the require 
ments of welded and gen 
legs , Crewed and socketed 
mild steel tubes and tubulars 
And of plain - cąd steel tubcs 
suitable for screwing to pipe 
threads conforming to IS : 
554 - 1955 , of nominal bores 


Sb . 84 ) 


"THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1939 /PAUSA D , 1894 


3991 


(1) 


(2) 


ranging from 16 to 150 
mm (or 1 / 8 to 6 in . ). 
Threc grades of thicknceses 
have been included in this 
standard which are designed 
as Light , Medium and 
Heavy . (Price Rs. 4 . 00 ), 


8 


IS : 1261 - 1959 Code of Practice 

for Scam welding in Mild Steel, 


This standard relates to scam wel 

ding in mild steel where the 
total added thickness of the 
Components to be welded docs 

not exceed 8 . 0 mm , 
When it is necessary or desirable 

to seam weld sheets of widely 
dis - similar thickresses there 
may be limitations on the 
ratio of the thickness of the 
material being welded . Further , 
special techniques for weld 
ing møy have to be employed . 
(Price Rs, 2 : 50 ). 


9 IS : 1275 - 1958 Rules for Miking 

Alphabetical Indexes, 


Thix standard lays dowit rules 

for preparing alphabetical in 
dexes of books ard périodical 
publications. ( Price Rs. 5 . 00 ). 


10 IS : 1301- 1958 Code of Safety 

Requirements for Electric 
Mainy- Operated Audio Am 
plifier . . 


This standard applies to ampli 

fiers for audio frequency in 
tended for indoor or outdoor 
une ard to be connected to sup 
ply mains either directly or 
through the intermediary of 
auxiliary apparatus. (Price Rs. 
4 . 00 ). 


! IS : 1302 - 1958 Methods of Mea 

surements on Audio Ampli 
fiers . 


This standart prescribes the 
methods of measurements of 
the important characteristics 
of Audio Amplifiers suitable for 
operation from DC or AC maina 
supply of primary battery or 
Aecondary battery or combing 
tions thereof. (Price Rs. 2 . 50 ), 


I ) 


IS : 1310 - 1958 Specification for 

Endrin Emulsifiable Concer 
trates . 


This standard prescribes the re 

quirements and the methods 
of test for endrin emusi 
fiable concèntrates . (Price 
Rq. 5 . 00 ). 


13 18 : 1320 - 1938 Specification for 

Baker s Yerst . 


This standard prescribes the re 

quirements and the methods 
of test for baker e yeast. Price 
Rs. 2 . 50 ). 


2502 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1959 /PAUSA B , 1881 


[ PART II 


(3) 


14 IS : 1336 – 1959 Recommenda 

thons for the Colour of Push 
Buttons 


15 


IS : 1338 - 1959 Specification for 

Certified Samples for Metal 
hargical Analysis , 


These recommendation , apply to 

the colour of push - buttons for 
starting and stopping electric 
motors , or for starting and 
stopping other electrical appra 
ratus or opening and closing 
of parts (such as circuit brea 
kers) of an electrical installa 

tion . (Price Re. 1 . 00 ). 
This standard specifics the general 

conditions for the preparation 
of certified samples for metal 
lurgical Analysis, their packing 
and storage , so that they may 
be deemed to have composi 
tions, subject to stated toleran 
ces , as prescribed in a certifi 
cate to be supplicd with each 

gample . (Price Re. 1 . 00 ). 
This code lays down the proce 

dure for protective coating of 
zinc hage alloys intended 
primarily to prevent or reduce 
their corrosion under bumid 

conditions. 
This treatment may also be 
applied to zinc plated material. 
( Price Rs. I 50 ). 


16 


IS : 1340 — 1959 Code of Practice 

for Protective Coating of Zinc 
Bage Alloys . 


17 


18 : 1357 – 1959 Specification 

for Printing Metal 


18 IS : 1358 – 1959 Practice for 

Layout of Library Catalogue 
Code . 


This standard covers the require 
ments for the following four 
grades of printing metak 
( a ) Linotype , Intertype metal, 
( 6 ) Monotype metal, 
( c ) Stereo metal , And 
( d ) Electro - backing mctal, 
( Price Rs, . 50) . 
This standard specifics the 

essential topics to be covered 
by a library catalogue code 
and recommends a helpful 
scquence in which they should 

appear. ( Price Re, 1 . 00 ). 
This standard prescribes cong 
tructional details and other 
particulary of cotton scwing 
thread , bleached , for aeronau 

tical purposes . 
This standard does not specify 

the type of finish , feel and the 
degree of whitences of the 
thread . (Price Rs. 7 . 00 ) , 


19 


IS : 1376 — 1959 Specification 

for Cotton Sewing Thread , 
Blcached , for · Aeronautical 
Purposés . 


20 IS : 1386 - 1959 Methods for 

Testing Cotton Cordages for 
Resistance to Attack by Micro 
Organisms. 


This standard prescribes methods 
for evaluating cotton cordages 
for Içsistance to attack hy 
micro -organisms. 
(Price Re, 2 . 50 ). 


Copies of these Indian Standards are available for sale with the Indian Standards Institution , 
" Manak Bhayan " , 9 , Mathura Road , New Delhi - 1 and also at its Branch Offices at (i) General 
Assurance Building, 232 , Dr, Dadabhoy Naoroji Road , Fort , Bombay - I , (ii) P - II, Mission 
Row Extension , Calcutta - I , and (iii) 2 / 21, First Line Beach , Madrag ) 

[No. MDCHI (4).] 


S . O . 2825 - In pursuance of sub - regulation ( 1 ) of regulation & of the Indian Standards Institution Certification Marks) Regulations , 1955 , the Indian ! 
Standards Institution hereby cotifies that 4 licences , particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto anpeged , have been renewed . 


Sxc.3(tt)] 


THE SCHEDULE 


Licence No. 
and date 


Period of Validity 


S 


. 


Name and Address of the Licensee 


Article covered by the Licence Relevant Indian Standard 


NO . 


From 


To 


( 3 ) 


14 ) 


(5 ) 


(6 ) 


I CM /L -23 , 

19- 12 -1956 


1- 1- 1960 


31- 12 -1960 


16 - 12 -1959 


2 CM / L -41, 

10 - 12 - 1957 
3 CM / L - III , 

16 - 12 - 1958 . 


15 - 12 - 1960 
31- 12 - 1960 


I - I - 1960 


M /s. Deccan Aluninium Stores Wrought Aluminium Utensils IS , 21 - 1953 Specification for 
56 , 1st Bhoiwada , Bombay - 2 . 

Grade A . 

Wrought Aluminium for 

Utensils. 
M s, Carew and Co . Ltd . , Nars - Rectified Spirit - Grade A and IS : 323 - 1952 Specification for 
muda, - Asansol (West Bengal) . Grade B 

Rectified Spirit. 
Ms. Beliaghata Timber Works , Tea Chest Plywood Panels IS : 10 - 1953 Specification for 
Private Ltd ., 28 - B , Chaulpatty 

Plywood Tea -Chests (Re 
Road , Calcutta - Io . 

tised ). 
The Kesar Sugar Works Lid ., Hydroquinone, Photographic IS :388 -1952 Specification for 
45 -47, Apolo Street , Fort, Grade. 

Hydroquinone, Photographic 
Bombay - I . 

Grade ( Tentative ). 


4 


I - 1- 1960 


CM / L - 112 , 
26 - 12 - 1958 . 


31- 12 - 1960 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER26,1959/PAUŠA5,1881 


[No. MDC / 12 ( 185 )- L .) 


EOSE 


3504 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBFR 20 , 1959/ PAUSA 5 , 1881 


[ PART II 


New Delhi, the 17th December 1959 
9 . 0 . 2836 . - Io pursuance of regulation 4 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification 
Marks) Regulations, 1955 the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that i cadments 10 
the Indian Standards given in the Schedule hereto Annexed have been issued under the powers 
conferred by sub- regulation ( 1) regulation 3 of the said regulations. 


THE SCHEDULE 


Si. 
No. 


Date of cffect 
of the 
nend 
ment 


No, and title of the No, & date of No . & dare Brief particulars of 
Indian Standard Gizette Noti- of the the Amendment 
Amended fication in Amend 

which thc es ment 
tablishment of 
the Indian 
Standard was 

notified 


(3) 


I 


No . 1 
Decem 
ber 1959 


IS : 607 - 1955 Code S . R . O . 1033 
of Practice for Cons - dated 5th 
truction of Food May 1956 . 
Grain Storage Struc 
tures Suitable for 
Trade and Guvern - 
ment Purposes for 
the Southern Region 


The cxisting sub - clause 19 January 
13 . 1 . 1 has been deleted 1960 . 
And substituted by the 
following : 
" 13 . 1 1 Where gab 

lcd roof is construc 
ted , care sball 
be taken that 00 
hollow space is left 
between the walls 
And the roof sheet 
ing. The roof shect 
ing shall be galvani 
zed Corrugated steel 
or corrugated alu 
minium or agbentcs 
cement. The sheet 
ing shall project at 
least 3 ft. from the 
outer surface of the 
walls. The purlins 
and sheets shall be 
well anchored and 
sccured ." 


Copies of this amendment slip are available , free of cost , with the Indian Standards Iogtiin 
tion , " Monak Bhayan " , 9 , Mathura Road, New Delhi- 1, and also at its Branch Offices at ( t) 232 . 
Dr. Dadabhoy Naoroji Road , Fort, Bombay - 1, (I ) P - II, Mission Row Extension , Calcutta - i ind 
iii) 2 /21, First Line Beach ,Madrag- 1. 


[No, MDC /11(9) . 1 


S . O . 2837 - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -regulations ( 2) and ( 3 ) uf regulation 3 of the ladian Standards Institution (Certification 
Maks) Ragulations, 1955, the ladian Standards Institution hereby notifies tho issue of corrigenda slip , particulats of which are given in column ( 4 ) of the 
Schedule hereto angered , in respect of the Indian Standards specified in column (2 ) of the said schedule . 

THE SCHEDULE 


Sec.(L)] 


SI. No. and title of Indian 
No . 

Standard 


No. and date of Gazette Nori- 
fication in which establishmeat 
of the Indian Standard Fas 

to ided 


No . and date of the 

corrigenda 


Particulars of Corrigenda Slip issued 


(2 ) 


( 3 ) 


( 5 ) 


No. 1 November 1959 . 


I IS :616 - 1957 Code of Safety S.R . O . 50 , dated 4th January 

Reguirements for Mains- 1958 . 
Operated Radio Receivers . 


( 1) A fex corrections have been made in clauses / 

sub - clauses 2 . 3 , 3 . 5 , 4 . 1 . 3 , 4 .2 . 1, 4 .2 .6 , 
4 . 2 . 7 , 5 . 3 . 2 , 5 . 3 . 5 , 5 . 3 . 6 , 9 . 3 . 2 , 11 . 2 , 2 , 11. 2 . 4 . 1 , 
11 . 2 . 4 .2 , 11. 2 . 5 , 11. 2 .6 , 11 . 1 . 2 . 1 , 12 . 1 . 3 , 
12 . 2 , 12 . 2 . 2 , 12 . 2 . 2 . 1, 12 . 2 .2 .2 , 14 . 4 , 

16 . 1 , A - I . I . 1 , and A - 1 . 1 . 2 . 
(11) Clause 3 . 4 and sub -clauses 11 . 2 . 3 and 16 . 2 .2 

have been deleted and substituted by new 

ones , 
( 111 ) In Fig . I , under Tolerances substitute Oni! 

Angles 10 . 5 minute for On sagles tos 
(io ) In Table I, item 11, col. 2 , delete the comma 

after Rubber. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER26,1959/PAUSA5,1881 


Copies of this corrigenda slip are available , free of cost , with the Indian Standards Institution , " Manak Bhavan , 9, Mathuna Road , New Delhi- 1, and 
also atits Branch Offices ar ( ) 232 , Dr. Dadabhoy NaorojiRoad , Fort , Bombay, (it) P - 11 ,Mission Row Extension , Calcutta - I , and ( 111) 2 /21, First Line 
Beach , Madras , 

(No. MDC / 11( 10 ).] 


3505 


S . O . 2838 . In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - regulations ( 2 ) and (3 ) of regulation 3 ofthe Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks ) 
Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies the issue of errata slips , particulars of which are given in column ( 4 ) of the Schedule 
hertto annexed , in respect of the Indian Standards specified in column ( 2 ) of the said Schedule . 


2506 


THE SCHEDULE 


$1. 


No. and title of Indian Standard 


No, and date of Gazette Notification 
in which establishment of Indian 

Standard was notified 


Particulars of Errata Slip Issued 


No. 


13 ) 


( + ) 


I IS : 1140- 1959 Speckication for Logs for Mat - S . O . 2110 , dated 26th September 1959 

ches . 


In Table I (p . 3) against Sl. No . VI (Bombax insigne) , 
la the column under Boxes please read X in place 


of 


Copies of this errata slip are available free of cost , with the Indian Standards Institution " Manak Bhayan , 9 , Mathura Road , New Delbi- I and also 
at its Branch Offices at (1) General Assurance Building, 232 , Dr. Dadabhoy Naoroji Road , Fort , Bombay - I , (21) P - ji, Mission Row Extension , Calcutta - 1, 
and (111) 2 /21, First Line Beach . Madras - 1 . 

[NO, MDC/ 11 (70 ) ] 
C . N . MODAWAL , 
Deputy Director (Marks.) 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:VECEMBER20,1959/P.AUSA5,1881 


a 


