REGISTERED N«. D. 222 


‘tlhe (Hasette 



uraitv crat 



Irtbia 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No- 51] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGRAHAYANA 30, 187 & 


NOnCE 

The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the'i3th December, 


I 9 J 7 

I""" 



Issue 

No. 

No, and date 

Issued by j 

Subject 

57<5 

S.R.O. 3008, dated the 7th 
December, 1957. 

! 

Ministry of Home 
Affairs. 

1 

Amendment made in the notifi- 
cation No. S.R.O. 615, dated 
the 28th April 1951. 

577 

S.R.O. 3909, dated the 9th | 
December, 1957. 

Ministry of Finance. 

Giant of recognition to the Delhi 
Stock Exchange Association 
Ltd., New Delhi under section 

3 of the Securities Contracts 
(Regulation) Act, 1956. 


S.R.O. 3910, dated die 9th 
December, 1957. 

Ditto. 

Application of section 13 ot the 
Securities Contracts (Regula- 
tion) Act, 1936 to the Union 
territory of Delhi. 


S.R-O- 3911, dated the 9th 
December, 1957. 

Ditto. 

! 

Appointment date on which bcc- 
t on 19 of the Securities Con- 
tracts (Regulation) Act, 1936, 
shall come In force in Union 
territory of Delhi, 

578 

, S.R.O. 3912, dated the 9th 
December, 1957 - 

Ministry of L3 w. 

i 

The Constitution (Distribution 
of Revenues) No. 2 Order, 
1957 - 

378 -A 

S.R.O- 3912A, dated the 10th 
December, 1957. 

Election Commission, 
India. 

Removal of disqualification under 
clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, incurred by Shri 
Klshen Chand. 





( 2855 ) 



2856 THE GAZETTE OE INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGRAHAYANA SO, 1879 [Part II 


Issue 

No. 

No. and date 

Issued by 

Subject 

579 

S.R.O. 3913, dated the 27th 
November, 19J7. 

Election Commission, 
India. 

Election Petition No. 10 of 1935. 

580 

S.R.O. 3914, dated the 7th 
December, 1957. 

Ditto. 

Election Petition No. 431 of 
1957- 

581 

S.R.O. 3983, dated the 12th 
December, 1957. 

Ministry of Com- 
merce and Industry. 

Amendments made to the Coir 
Industry Rules, 1954. 

582 

S.R.O. 3984, dated the 6th 
December, 1957- 

Election Commission, 
India, 

Election Petition No. 472 of 
1957. 

583 

S.R.O. 3985, dated the 13th 
December, 1957. 

Ministry of Home 
Affairs. 

1 

Notice of amendment to Second 
Schedule (relating to tax free 
goods) in pursuance of the 
Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) 
Act, 1941 as extended to the 
Union territory of Delhi. 

584 

S.R.O. 3986, dated the 13th 
December, 1957. 

Ministry of Informa- 
tion and Broadcasting. 

Certification of films to be of the 
description specified therein. 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
Indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of thess 
Gazettes. 


FART II— Section 3 

Statutory Rules and Orders issued by the Ministries of the Government 
of India (other than the Ministry cf Defence) and Central Authorities 
(other than the Chief Commissioners) 

ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 

New Delhi- 2 , the 14th December 1957 

S.R.O, 4009. — In pursuance of sub-rule (4) of rule 134 of the Representation 
of the People (Conduct of Elections and Election Petitions) Rules, 1956, the 
Election Commission hereby notifies the name of the person shown in column 1 
of the Schedule below who having been a contesting candidate for election to 
th e House of the People from the constituency specified in column 2 thereof, at 
the general elections held in 1957, has in accordance with the decision given by 
the Election Commission under sub-rule (3) of the said rule, failed to lodge his 
account of election expenses within the time and in the manner required by law 
and has thereby Incurred the disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act. 1951, Act 43 of 1951. 


Schedule 

N tme of Contesting Candidate 

Name of constituency. 

I 

2 

Shri Kamat Baidyanath, Village and P. 0. Bangaon, 

P. S. and District Saharsa. 

Saharsa. 


[No. BR-P/6 i/J7(205)/i4059.] 







Sec, 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGRAHAYANA 80, 1879 2857 


S.R.O. 4010, — In pursuance of sub-rule (4) of rule 134 of the Representation 
of the People (Conduct of Elections and Election Petitions) Rules, 1956, the 
Election Commission hereby notifies the name of the person shown in column 1 
of the Schedule below who having been a contesting candidate for election to 
the House of the People from the constituency specified in column 2 thereof, at 
the general elections held in 1957, has in accordance with the decision given by 
the Election Commission under sub-rule (3) of the said rule, failed to lodge any 
account of his election expenses and has thereby incurred the disqualification 
under clause (c) of section 7 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, Act 
43 of 1051. 


Schhoulh 


Name of Contesting Candidate 

Name of constituency. 

I 

2 

Shri Lai Ncti, Village Bhalluahi, P, O. Khurasan, 

District Saharsa. 

SaharBa. 

[No, BR-P/6i/57(2D6)[i4058. ) 


S.R.O, 4011 . — In pursuance of sub-rule (4) of rule 134 of the Representation 
of the People (Conduct of Elections and Election Petitions) Rules, 1956, the 
Election Commission hereby notifies the name o? the person shown in column 1 
of the Schedule below who having been a contesting candidate for election to 
the House of the People from the constituency specified in column 2 thereof, st 
the general elections held in 1957, has in accordance with the decision given by 
the Election Commission under sub-rule (3) of tho said rule, failed to lodge his 
account of election expenses within the time required by law and has thereby 
Incurred the disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the Representation 
of the People Act, 1951, Act 43 of 1951. 


Schedule 

Name of Contesting Candidate 

Name of constiiuercy. 

I 

2 

r' VI 11 it- K rai, Village and P. O. Murho, 

District Saharsa, 

Saharsa. 


[No. BR-P/61/57(204) /14060.1 


By Order, 

A. KRISHNASWAMY AIYANGAR, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LAW 

New Delhi, the 17 th December 1957 

S.R.O. 4012 [Contrae.ts/Ams.(20).]. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause (1) of article 299 of the Constitution, the President hereby directs that the 
following further amendments shall be made in the Notification of the Govern- 
ment of India in the Ministry of Law No, S.R.O. 3442, dated the 2nd November, 
1955, relating to the execution of contracts and assurances of property, namely: — 

In the said notification, Part I shall be lettered as item A Of that Part and 
after the item as so lettered, the following shall be Inserted, namely: — 

"B, Agreements relating to the grant of provisional pension to displaced 
Government servants; by the authorities sanctioning the pension*’. 

[No. F,44-(l)/57-J.l 




2858 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGRAHAYANA 80, 1879 [Part II 


S.R.O. 4013. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of rule 8B of 
Order XXVII of the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (8 of 
1908), the Central Government hereby makes the following amendments in the 
notification of the Government of India In the Ministry of Law SR.O. No. 3920, 
dated the 5th December, 1957, namely:— 

In the said notification — 

1. after the words ‘not being a suit’, the brackets and words “(other than a 
suit in the City Civil Court, Calcutta)” shall be inserted; 

2. in item 13 of the Schedule, relating to West Bengal, — 

(i) in clause (b), after the words ‘High Court’ the words 'and the City 
Civil Court’ shall be inserted; 

(li) after clause (b), the following clause shall be inserted, namely: — 

“ (c) City Civil Court, Calcutta . (1) Shn Soudhendra Kumar Basu, M.A. 

LL.B., Senior [Central Government 
Pleader, City Civil [ Court, 43/A, 
Bhupendra Basu Avenue, Calcutta. 

(2) Shri R, M. Kar, Junior Central Govern- 
ment Pleader, City Civil Court, Jo, 
Old Post Office Street, Calcutta .” 

(ill) existing clause (c) shall be re-lettered as clause (d). 

[No. F.51-C2) /37-J.] 
B. N. LOKUR, Jt. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi-2, the 11th December 1957 

S.R.O. 4614. — In pursuance of clause (1) of article 239 of the Constitution, the 
President hereby directs that, subject to his control, the Lieutenant Governor of 
the Union territory of Himachal Pradesh shall, in relation to the said territory, 
exercise the powers of a State Government under section 125 of the Code of 
Civil Procedure, 1908 (6 of 1908). 

[No. F.2/7/57-Judl.II.] 
M. P. RODRIGUES, Under Secy. 


New Delhi-2, the lit h December 1957 

S.R.O. 4615. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 27 of the Indian 
Arms Act, 1878 (11 of 1878) the Central Government hereby exempts H.H. the 
Druk Gyalpo of Bhutan from the operation of the prohibitions and directions con- 
tained in the said Act, in respect of one .357 bore revolver (S. No. 133225) end 
five hundred rounds pf ammunition. 

[No, 17/17/57-Police(IV).J 
New Delhi-2, the 13 th December 1957 

S.R.O. 4016. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 27 of the Indian. 
Arms Act, 1878 (XI of 1878), the Central Government hereby exempts Shri 
D. N. Bansal, from the operation of the prohibitions contained in section 0 of the 
eaid Act in respect of one "38 bore revolver No, 55288 and connected ammunition. 

If any. 


[No. 18/ 10/57-Police(IV) .] 
C. P. S. MENON, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi-2, the 12 th December 1957 

S.R.O. 4017. — In pursuance of sub-rule (1) and the first proviso to sub-rule (2), 
of rule 4 of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954, the Central 
Government In consultation with the Government of Mysore hereby makes the 



Sec. 9] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 80, 1878 2859 


following amendment in the Indian Administrative Service (Fixation ef Cadre 
Strength; Regulations, 1955, namely: — 

In the Schedule to the said Regulations, under the heading “Mysore”, in the 
list of posts specified under the sub-heading “Other Senior Duty Posts", the follow- 
ing entry shall be omitted and shall be deemed to have been omitted with effect 
from the 13th September, 1957, namely: — 

“Secretary, Mysore 

Government Insurance 

Department — — 1 ” 


[No. 13/69/57-AIS(III)]. 

New Delhi-2, the 18 th December 1957 

S.R.O. 4018. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (I) of 
section 3 of the All India Services Act, 1951 (61 of 1951), in so far as it applies 
to members of the Indian Civil Service, who have become members of the Indian 
Administrative Service, the Central Government, after consultation with the 
Governments of the States eoncerned, hereby makes the following amendment 
in the Indian Civil Service Provident Fund Rules, namely: — 

In the said Rules, after Rule 14, the following rule shall be inserted, namely: — 
“14-A. When the Government is satisfied that the operation of any of these 
rules causes or is likely to cause undue hardship to a subscriber, 
it may, after recording the reasons for so doing and not withstanding 
anything contained in these rules, deal with the case of such sub- 
scriber in such manner as may appear to it to be just and equitable: 

Provided that the case shall not be dealt with in any manner less favour- 
able to such subscriber than that prescribed in these Rules." 

[No. 13/ 48/57-AIS (III) .] 

S.R.O. 4019. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
3 of the All India Services Act, 1961 (61 of 1951), in its application to the members 
of the Indian Administrative Service, who before becoming such members, were 
members of the Indian Civil Service, the Central Government, after consultation 
with the Governments of the States concerned, herelby makes the following 
amendments in the Indian Civil Service Provident Fund Rules, 1942, namely: — 

In the said Rules, after rule 7, the following shall be added, namely: — 

“7-A. Subject to the conditions specified In rules 7-B, 7-C, 7-D, and 7-E, 
Government may. at any time after the completion of twenty-five 
years of service of a subscriber or within five years before the date 
of his retirement on superannuation, whichever is earlier, sanction 
withdrawal by him from the amount standing to his credit in the 
Fund for one or more of the following purposes, namely: — 

(a) Building or acquiring a suitable house for his residence including 

the cost of the site or repaying any outstanding amount on account 
of loan expressly taken, otherwise than from the Consolidated 
Fund of India or the Consolidated Fund of a State, for this purpose. 

(b) Meeting the cost of higher education, including wherever necessary, 

the cost of passage, of any child of the subscriber in the following 
cases, namely: — 

(I) for education outside India for an academic, technical, professional 

or vocational course, and 

(II) for any medical, engineering or other technical or specialised course 

In India beyond the High School Stage, provided that the course 
of study is for not less than three years. 

7-B. (1) Any sum withdrawn by a subscriber under clause (a) of rule 7-A 
from the amount standing to his credit in the Fund shall not exceed— 

(a; one-half of such amount, or 

(b) the actual cost of the house Including the cost of the site or the 
amount required for repayment of the loan taken for this purpose, 
whichever Is less. 



28 60 THE GAZETTE pF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, I937/AGRAHAYANA SO, 1879 [Part II 


Explanation , — For the purposes of this sub-rule, the actual expenditure 
Incurred In connection with the execution of any document relating 
to the transaction may be Included In the cost of the house or the 
amount required for the repayment of the loan. 

(2) If a subscriber subscribes to more than one Provident Fund, with- 

drawal shall be permitted only from one of such Funds as shall be 
selected by the subscriber, the amount of withdrawal being regulated 
In accordance with the total sum at his credit In all the Provident 
Funds to which he is subscribing. 

(3) If a subscriber desires to withdraw any sum under clause (al of 

rule 7-A for the construction of a house, he shall be permitted to do 
so only in equal instalments of not leas than two and not more than 
four in number; but the withdrawal of any instalment after the first 
shall be permitted by the Government only if It is satisfied that there 
has been sufficient progress in the construction of the house. 

(4) If any sum withdrawn by a subscriber under this rule la 'found to be 

in excess of that actually spent for the purpose for which such sum 
was withdrawn or is not applied for such purpose, the excess or the 
whole of such sum of so much thereof as has not been so applied, 
shall forthwith be repaid, together with interest thereon at the rate 
determined under rule 4, by the subscriber to the Fund; and in default 
of such repayment, it shall be ordered by the Government to be 
recovered from his emoluments either in a lump sum or in such 
number of monthly instalments as may be determined by the Govern- 
ment. 

7-C. (1) Any sum withdrawn by a subcriber under clause (b) of rule 7-A 
from the amount standing to his credit In the Fund shall not exceed 
one-half of such amount or three months’ pay, whichever is less. 

(2) If a subscriber subscribes to more than one Provident Fund, withdrawal 

by the subscriber, the amount of withdrawal being regulated In 
shall be permitted only from one of such Funds, as shall be selected 
accordance with the total sum at his credit in all the Provident Funda 
to which he is subscribing. 

(3) Withdrawal by a subscriber under clause (b) of rule 7-A from the 

amount standing to his credit In the Fund shall be permitted once In 
every six months. 

(4) A subscriber who has been permitted to withdraw money under clause 

(b) of rule 7-A from the amount standing to his credit In the Fund, 
shall satisfy the Government within a period of six months from 
the date of withdrawal that the money ha$ been utilised for the 
purpose for which it was withdrawn, and if he fails so to do. the 
whole of the sum so withdrawn or so much thereof as has not been 
applied for the purpose for which it was withdrawn, shall forthwith 
be repaid, together with Interest thereon at the rate determined 
under rule 4, by the subscriber to the Fund; 

Provided that where a portion of the money withdrawn is not likely to be 
spent within the said period and the subscriber desires to withdraw 
any further sum a! money from the Fund during the period of six 
months immediately following the said period, he shall so fix the 
amount proposed to be withdrawn during the period of six months 
immediately following the said period as to take into account this 
excess amount and submit an application in writing to the Govern- 
ment In that, behalf within one month of the expiry of the said period: 

Provided further that such excess amount shall not exceed ten per cent of 
the amount utilised. 

7-D. (1) No withdrawal shall be permitted for any purpose specified tn clause 
fa) of rule 7-A, unless the Government is satisfied — 

(a) that the subscriber does not already own a house at the place of hla 

duty or at the place where he intends to reside after retirement 
and that only ohe house will be built, acquired, or redeemed by 
the subscriber at such place; 

(b) that the sum which it is proposed to withdraw is actually required 

for that purpose; 



Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 2 86 1 

(c) that such sum, together with the private savings, if any, of the sub- 

scriber would be sufficient for that purpose; 

(d) that in the case of withdrawal for the construction of a house — 

(i) the subscriber possesses or intends to acquire forthwith the right 

to build it on the site therefor; 

(li) the subscriber has an approved plan; 

(Hi) the construction shall commence within six months from the date 
of withdrawal of money and shall be completed within a period 
of one year from the date orf commencement of construction; 

(e) that in the case of withdrawal for the acquisition of a house — - 

(!) the subscriber has produced an agreement of sale together with the 
title deeds of the vendor, whether original or certified copies 
thereof, showing that the vendor has an indefeasible and clear 
title to the land and house which he agrees to sell to the sub- 
scriber; 

Provided that this condition shall not preclude withdrawal for the 
purpose of building a house on any plot of land taken on lease 
from the Government; 

(ii) the house shall be purchased or redeemed within three months from 

the date of withdrawal; 

(f) that In the case of withdrawal for the purpose of repayment of loan, 

the subscriber has produced necessary deeds and papers before the 
Government proving his undisputed title to the land and the house 
thereon and the loan shall be repaid within three months from the 
date of withdrawal. 

7-K. (1) A subscriber who has been permitted under clause (a) of rule 7-A 
to withdraw money from the amount standing to his credit in the 
Fund shall submit an annual declaration on or before the 31st Decem- 
ber, in such form as may from time to time be prescribed by the 
Government and satisfy the Government, if called upon to do so, toy 
the production of tax receipts, title deeds, or documents, that the 
house remains in his sole ownership and that he has not parted with 
the possession thereof, by way of sale, mortgage, gift, exchange, or 
lease for a term exceeding three years, without the previous permis- 
sion of the Government. 

(2) If at any time before retirement a subscriber parts with the possession 
of the house contrary to the provisions of sub-rule (1), the sum 
withdrawn by him shall forthwith be repayable together with interest 
thereon at the rate determined under rule 4, by the subscriber to 
the Fund in one instalment,” 

2. The amendments hereby made shall be deemed to have com e into force on 
the 12th April, 1955. 

[No. 13/18/57-AIS(III)-A.l 

S.R.O. 4020. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of sec- 
tion 3 of the Ail India Services Act, 1951 (61 of 1951), in its application to the 
members of the Indian Police Service, who before becoming such members, were 
members of the Indian Police, the Central Government, after consultation with 
the Governments of the States concerned, hereby makes the following amendments 
in the Secretary of State's Services (General Provident Fund) Rules, 1943, 
namely: — 

In the said Rules, after rule 9, the following shall be added, namely: — 

"9-A. Subject to the conditions specified in rules 9-B, 9-C, 9-D and 9-E, 
Government may, at any time after the completion of twenty-five 
years of service of a subscriber or within five years before the date 
of his retirement on superannuation, whichever is earlier, sanction 
withdrawal by him from the amount standing to his credit in the 
Fund for one or more of the following purposes, namely: — 

(a) Building or acquiring a suitable house dor hi s residence including the 
cost of the site or repaying any outstanding amount on account of 
loan expressly taken, otherwise than from the Consolidated Fund 
of India or the Consolidated Fund of a State, for this purpose, 



2862 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGRAHAYANA SO, 1879 [Part II 


(b) Meeting the cost of higher education, including wherever necessary, 
the cost o' passage, of any child of the subscriber in the following 
cases, namely, — 

(i) for education outside India for an academic, technical, professional 

or vocational course, and 

(ii) for any medical, engineering or other technical or specialised course 

in India beyond the High School Stage, provided that the course 
of study is for not less than three years. 

9-B. (1) Any sum withdrawn by a subscriber under clause (a) of rule 9-A 
from the amount standing to his credit In the Fund shall not exceed — 

(a) one-half of such amount, or 

(b) the actual cost of the house including the cost of the site or the 

amount required for repayment of the loan taken for this purpose, 
whichever is less. 

Explanation,— For the purposes of this sub-rule, the actual expenditure 
incurred in connection with the execution of any document relating 
to the transaction may be included in the cost of the house or the 
amount required for the repayment of the loan. 

(2) If a subscriber desires to withdraw any sum under clause (al of 

rule 9-A for the construction of a house, he shall be permitted to do 
so only in equal instalments of not less than two and not more than 
four in number; but the withdrawal of any instalment after the first 
shall be permitted by the Government only if it is satisfied that 
there has been sufficient progress in the construction of the house, 

(3) If any sum withdrawn by a subscriber under this rule is found to 

be in excess of that actually spent for the purpose for which such 
sum wa s withdrawn or is not applied for such purpose, the excess 
or the whole of such sum or so much thereof as has not been so 
applied, shall (forthwith be repaid, together with interest thereon at 
the rate determined under rule 7, by the subscriber to the Fund; and 
in default of such repayment, it shall be ordered by the Government 
to be recovered from his emoluments either in a lump sum or in 
such number of monthly instalments as may be determined by the 
Government: 

Provided that a subscriber whose deposits in the Fund carry no interest 
shall not be liable to pay and interest on any sum repayable by him. 

9-C. (1) Any sum withdrawn by a subscriber under clause (b) of rule 9-A 
from the amount standing to his credit in the Fund shall not exceed 
one-half of such amount or three months’ pay whichever is less. 

(2) Withdrawal by a subscriber under clause (b) or rule 9-A from the 

amount standing to his credit in the Fund shall be permitted once 
in every six months. 

(3) (a) A subscriber who has been permitted to withdraw money under 

clause (b) of rule 9-A from the amount standing to his credit in 
the Fund, shall satisfy the Government within a period of six months 
from the date of withdrawal that the money has been utilised for the 
purpose for which It was withdrawn, and if he fails so to do, the 
whole of the sum so withdrawn or so much thereof as has not been 
. applied for the purpose for which it was withdrawn, shall forthwith 
be repaid, together with Interest thereon at the rate determined 
under rule 7 by the subscriber to the Fund: 

Provided that where a portion of the money withdrawn is not likely to be 
spent within the said period and the subscriber desires to withdraw 
any further sum of money from the Fund during the period of six 
months immediately following the sale! period, he shall so fix the 
amount proposed to be withdrawn during the period of six months 
immediately following the said period as tf> take into account this 
excess amount and submit an application in writing to the Govern- 
ment in that behalf within one month of the expiry of the said period: 

Provided further that such excess amount shall not exceed ten percent of 
the amount utilised. 

(b) Nothing in clause (a) shall be deemed to require a subscriber whose 
deposits in the Fund carry no interest, to pay any interest on any 
sum repayable by him under that clause, 



Szc. 8] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 2863 


9-D.(l) No withdrawal shall be permitted lor any purpose specified in 
clause (a) of rule 9-A unless the Government is satisfied— 

(a) that the subscriber does not already own a house at the place of his 

duty or at the place where he intends to reside after retirement 
and that only one house will be built, acquired, or redeemed by 
the subscriber at such place; 

(b) that the sum which it is proposed to withdraw is actually required 

for that purpose; 

(c) that such sum, together with the private savings, if any, of the sub- 

scriber would be sufficient for that purpose; 

(d) that in the case of withdrawal for the construction of a house — 

(i) the subscriber possesses or intends to acquire forthwith the right 

to build it on the site therefor; 

(ii) the subscriber has an approved plan; 

(Hi) the construction shall commence within six months from the date 
of withdrawal of money and shall be completed within a period 
of one year from the date of commencement of construction; 

(e) that in the case of withdrawal for the acquisition of a house — • 

(i) the subscriber has produced an agreement of sale together with the 

title deeds of the vendor, whether original or certified copies 
thereof, showing that the vendor has an indefeasible and clear 
title to the land and house which he agrees to sell to the sub- 
scriber: 

Provded that this condition shall not preclude withdrawal for the 
purpose of building a house on any plot of land taken on lease 
from the Government; 

(ii) the house shall be purchased or redeemed within three months from 

the date of withdrawal; 

(f) that in the case of withdrawal for the purpose of repayment of loan, 

the subscriber has produced necessary deeds and papers before the 
Government proving his undisputed title to the land and the house 
thereon and the loan shall be repaid within three months from the 
date of withdrawal. 

9-E. (1) A subscriber who ha 5 been permitfed under clause (a) of rule 9- A 
to withdraw money from the amount standing to his credit in the 
Fund shall submit an annual declaration on or before the 31st 
December, in such form as may from time to time be prescribed by 
the Government and satisfy the Gevernment if called upon to do so, 
by the production of tax receipts, title deeds, or documents, that the 
house remains in his sole ownership and that he has not parted with 
the possession thereof, by way of sale, mortgage, gift, exchange, or 
lease for a term exceeding three years, without the previous permis- 
sion of the Government. 

(2) If at any time ba'ore retirement, a subscriber parts with the possession 
of the house contrary to the provision of sub-rule (l) the sum with- 
drawn by him shall forthwith be repayable together with interest 
thereon at the rate determined under rule 4 by the subscriber 
to the Fund in one instalment; 

Provided that a subscriber whose deposits in tbe Fund carry no interest 
shall not be liable to pay any interest on any sum repayable by 
him.” 

2. The amendments hereby made shall be deemed to have come into force on 
the 12th April, 1955. 

[No. 13/18/57-AlS(III)-B,] 

S.R.O 4021. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution, In Its application to the officers of the Secretary of State’s 
Services Serving in connection with the affairs of the Union, the President hereby 
makes the following amendments in the Secretary of State’s Services (General 
Provident Fund) Rules, 1943, namely: — 

In the said Rules, after rule 9, the following shall be added, namely: — 

‘‘9-A, Subject to the conditions specified in rules 9-B 9-C, 9-D and 9-E, 
Government may, at any time after the completion of twenty-five 
years of service of a subscriber or within five years before the date 



2864 GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGRAHAYANA 80, 1879 [Part II 


of his retirement on superannuation, whichever is earlier sanction 
withdrawal by him from the amount standing to his credit In the 
Fund for one or more of the following purposes, namely: — 

(a) Building or acquiring a suitable house for his residence including the 

cost of the site or repaying any outstanding amount on account of 
loan expressly taken, otherwise than from the Consolidated Fund 
of India or the Consolidated Fund of a State, for this purpose. 

(b) Meeting the cost of higher education, Including wherever necessary, 

the cost of passage, of any child of the subscriber in the following 
cases, namely : — 

(i) for education outside India for an academic, technical, professional 
or vocational course, and 

(il) for any medical, engineering or other technical or specialised 
course In India beyond the High School Stage, provided that 

the course of study is for not less than three years. 

9-B.(lt Any sum withdrawn by a subscriber under clause (a) of rule 9-A, 
from the amount standing to his credit in the Fund shall not exceed — 

(a) one-half of such amount, or 

(b) the actual cost of the house including the cost of the site or the 

amount required for repayment of the loan taken for this purpose, 
whichever is less. 


Explanation. — For the purposes of this sub-rule, the actual expenditure 
incurred in connection with the execution of any document relating 
to the transaction may be Included in the cost of the house or the 
amount required for the repayment of the loan. 


(2) If a subscriber desires to withdraw any sum under clause (a) of rule 9-A 
for the construction of a house, he shall be permitted to do so only 
in equal Instalments of not less than two and not more than four 
in number; but the withdrawal of any Instalment after the first 
shall be permitted by the Government only If It Is satisfied that 
there has been sufficient progress in the construction of the house. 


(31 If any sum withdrawn by a subscriber under this rule is found to be 
in excess of that actually spent for the purpose for which such sum 
was withdrawn or - Is not applied for such purpose, the excess or the 
whole of such sum or so much thereof as has not been so applied, 
shall forthwith be repaid, together with Interest thereon at the rate 
determined under rule 7, by the subscriber to the Fund; and in 
default of such repayment, it shall be ordered by the Government 
to be recovered from his emoluments either in a lump sum or In 
such number of monthly instalments as may be determined by the 
Government : 


Provided that a subscriber whose deposits In the Fund carry no interest 
shall not be liable to pay any interest on any sum repayable by him. 


9 -C. (1) Any sum withdrawn by a subscriber under clause (b) of rule 9-A 
from the amount standing to his credit in the Fund shall not exceed 
one-half of such amount or three months’ pay, whichever is less. 


(21 Withdrawal by a subscriber under clause (b) of rule 9-A from the 
amount standing to his credit in the Fund shall be permitted once 
in every six months, 

( 3 ) (a) A subscriber who has been permitted to withdraw money under 

V clause (b) of rule 9-A from the amount standing to his credit in the 
Fund shall satisfy the Government within a period of six months 
from the date of withdrawal that the money has been utilised for 
the purpose for which it was withdrawn, and if he fails so to do 
the whole of the sum so withdrawn or so much, thereof as has not 
been applied for the purpose for which It was withdrawn, shaU 
forthwith be repaid, together with interest thereon at the rate 
determined under rule 7, by the subscriber to the Fund. 

Provided that where a portion of the money withdrawn is not likely to 
be spent within the said period and the subscriber deslres to with- 
draw any further sum of money from the Fund during the Period 
of six months immediately following the said period, he shall so fix 



Sec. S] TfiE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1 957/AGRAHAYANA SO, 1879 2865 , 


the amount proposed to be withdrawn during the period of six 
months immediately following the said period as to take into ac- 
count this excess amount and submit an application in writing to 
the Government in that behalf within one month of the expiry of 
the said period : 


Provided further that such excess amount shall not exceed ten percent of 
the amount utilised, 

(b) Nothing in clause (a) shall be deemed to require a subscriber whose 
deposits In the Fund carry no interest, to pay any interest on any 
sum repayable by him under that clause. 

9-D,— (1) No withdrawal shall be permitted for any purpose specified in 
clause (a) of rule 9-A unless the Government is satisfied — 

(a) that the subscriber does not already own a house at the place of 
his duty or at the place where he Intends to reside after retire- 
ment and that only one house will be built, acquired, or redeemed 
by the subscriber at such place; 

(b) that the sum which it is proposed to withdraw is actually required 

for that purpose; 

(c) that such sum, together with the private savings, if any, of the sub- 

scriber would be sufficient for that purpose; 

(d) that in the case of withdrawal for the construction of a house 

(I) the subscriber possesses or intends to acquire forthwith the right 
to build It on the site therefor; 

(ii) the subscriber has an approved plan; 

(iii) the construction shall commence within six months from the date 
of withdrawal of money and shall be completed within a period 
of one year from the date of commencement of construction; 

(e) that in the case of withdrawal for the acquisition of a house— 

(1) the subscriber has produced an agreement of sale together with 1 
the title deeds of the vendor, whether original or certified 
copies thereof, showing that the vendor has an indefeasible and 
clear title to the land and house which he agrees to sell to the 
subscriber : 

Provided that this condition shall not preclude withdrawal for the- 
purpose of building a house on any plot of land taken On lease 
from the Government; 

(ii) the house shall be purchased or redeemed within three months 
from the date of withdrawal; 

(f) that in the case of withdrawal for the purpose of repayment of loan, 

the subscriber has produced necessary deeds and papers before 
the Government proving his undisputed title to the land and the 
house thereon and the loan shall be repaid within three months 
from the date of withdrawal, 

9-E, (1) A subscriber who has been permitted under clause (a) of rule 9-A 
to withdraw money from the amount standing to his credit in the 
Fund shall submit an annual declaration on or before the 3ist 
December, in such form as may from time to time be prescribed by 
the Government and satisfy the Government If called upon to do 
so, by the production of tax receipts, title deeds, or documents, that 
the house remains In his sole ownership and that he has not parted 
with the possession thereof, by way of sale, mortgage, gift, exchange, 
or lease for a term exceeding three years, without the previous 
permission of the Government. 

(2) If at any time before retirement a subscriber parts with the possession 
of the house contrary to the provisions of sub-rule ,(1), the sum 
withdrawn by him shall forthwith be repayable together with 
Interest thereon at the rate determined under rule 7, by the sub- 
scriber to the Fund in one instalment: 

Provided that a subscriber whose deposits in, the Fund carry no Interest 
shall not be liable to pay any interest on any sum repayable by him,” 


2, The amendments hereby made 
the 12th April, 1955. 


shall be deemed to have come into force on 
[No, 13/18/57-AIS(III)-C,] 



2866 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGRAHAYANA 30 , 1879 [Part II 


S.R.O. 4022. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of sec- 
tion 3 of the All India Services Act, 1951 (61 of 1951), in its application to the 
members of the Indian Administrative Service, who, before becoming such mem- 
bers, were members of the Indian Civil Service, the Central Government, after 
consultation with the Governments of the States concerned, hereby makes the 
following amendments in the Indian Civil Service (Non-European Members) 
Provident Fund Rules, 1943, namely: — 

In the said Rules, alter rule 6, the following shall be inserted namely: — 

“6-A. — Subject to the conditions specified in rules 6-B, 6-C, 6-D and 6-E, 
Government may, at any time after the completion of twenty-five 
years of service of a subscriber or within five years before the date 
of his retirement on superannuation, whichever is earlier, sanction 
withdrawal by him from the amount standing to his credit In the 
Fund for one or more of the following purposes, namely: — 

(a) Building or acquiring a suitable house for his residence Including the 

cost of the site or repaying airy outstanding amount on account of 
loan expressly taken, otherwise than from the Consolidated Fund 
of India or the Consolidated Fund of a State, for this purpose. 

(b) Meeting the cost of higher education, including wherever necessary, 

the cost of passage, of any child of the subscriber in the following 
i cases, namely : — 

(I) for education outside India for an academic, technical, professional 

or vocational course, and 

(II) fox any medical, . engineering or other technical or specialised 

course in India beyond the High Schaol Stage, provided that 

the course of study is for not less than three years. 

6-B. — (1) Any sum withdrawn by a subscriber under clause (a) of rule 6-A 
from the amount standing to his credit in the Fund shall not exceed— 

(a) one-half of such amount, or 

(b) the actual cost of the house Including the cost of the site or the 

amount required for repayment of the loan taken for this purpose, 
whichever is less. 

Explanation. — For the purposes of this sub-rule, the actual expenditure 
incurred in connection with the execution of any document relating 
to the transaction may be included In the cost of the house or the 
amount required for the repayment of the loan, 

(2) If a subscriber subscribes to more than one Provident Fund, with- 
drawal shall be permitted only from one of such Funds, as shall 
be selected by the subscriber, the amount of withdrawal being re- 
gulated in accordance, with the total sum at his credit in all the 
Provident Funds, to which he is subscribing. 

<3) If a subscriber desires to withdraw any sum under clause (a) of rule 6-A 
for the construction of a house, he shall be permitted to do so only 
In equal Instalments of not less than two and not more than four 
in number; but the withdrawal of any Instalment after the first 
shall be permitted by the Government only if it Is satisfied that 
there has been sufficient progress in the construction of the house. 

(4) If any sum withdrawn by a subscriber under this rule Is found to be 
in excess of that actually spont for the purpose for which such sum 
was withdrawn or is not applied for such purpose, the excess or the 
whole of such sum or so much thereof as has not been so applied, 
shall forthwith be repaid, together with Interest thereon at the rate 
determined under rule 4, by the subscriber to the Fund; and in 
default of such repayment, it shall be ordered by the Government 
to be recovered from his emoluments either in a lump sum or In 
such number of monthly instalments as may be determined by the 
Government : 

Provided that a subscriber whose deposits in the Fund carry no Interest 
shall not be liable to pay any Interest on any sum repayable by him. 

6-C —(1) Any sum withdrawn by a subscriber under clause (b) of rule 6-A 
from the amount standing to his credit in the Fund shall not exceed 
one-half of such amount or three months’ pay, whichever Is less. 



Sec. S] THt GAZETTE t)F INDIA: DECEMBER 21. 1 957/AGRA HAYANA 30, 1879 2867 


(2) II a subscriber subscribes to more than one Provident Fund withdrawal 

shall be permitted only from one of such Funds, as shall be selected 
by the subscriber, the amount of withdrawal being regulated in 
accordance with the total sum at his credit in all the Funds to 
which he is subscribing, 

(3) Withdrawal by a subscriber under clause (b) of rule 6 -A from the 

amount standing to his credit in the Fund shall be permitted once 
in every six months. 

(4) (a) A subscriber who has been permitted to withdraw money under 

clause (b) of rule 6 -A from the amount standing to his credit in the 
Fund, shall satisfy the Government within a period of six months 
from the date of withdrawal that the money has been utilised for 
the purpose for which It was withdrawn, and if he fails so to do, 
the whole of the sum so withdrawn or so much thereof as has not 
been applied for the purpose for which it was withdrawn, shall 
forthwith be repaid, together with interest thereon at the rate 
determined under rule 4; by the subscriber to the Fund: 

Provided that where a portion of the money withdrawn is not likely to 
be spent within the said period and the subscriber desires to with- 
draw any further sum of money from the Fund during the period 
of six months immediately following the said period, he shall so fix 
the amount proposed to be withdrawn during the period of six 
months immediately following the said period as to take into ac- 
count this excess amount and submit an application in writing to 
the Government in that behalf within one month of the expiry of 
the said period : 

Provided further that such excess amount shall not exceed ten percent of 
the amount utilised. 

(b) Nothing in clause (a) shall be deemed to require a subscriber whose 
deposits in the Fund carry no interest, to pay any interest on any 
sum repayable by him under that clause. 

6 -D. (1) No withdrawal shall be permitted for any purpose specified in 
clause (a) of rule 6-A unless the Government Is satisfied — t 

(a) that the subscriber does not already own a house at the place of 

his duty or at the place where he Intends to reside after retire- 
ment and that only one house will be buiit, acquired, or redeemed 
by the subscriber at such place; 

(b) that the sum which It Is proposed to withdraw is actually required 

for that purpose; 

(c) that such sum, together with the private savings, if any, of the sub- 

scriber would be sufficient for that purpose; 

(d) that in the case of withdrawal for the construction of a house — 

(i) the subscriber possesses or intends to acquire forthwith the right 
to build It on the site therefor; 

(li) the subscriber has an approved plan; 

(III) the construction shall commence within six months from the date 
of withdrawal of money and shall be completed within a period 
of one year from the date of commencement of construction; 

(e) that in the case of withdrawal for the acquisition of a house — 

( 1 ) the subscriber has produced an agreement of sale together with 
the title deeds of the vendor, whether original or certified 
copies thereof, showing that the vendor has an Indefeasible and 
clear title to the land and house which he agrees to sell to the- 
subscriber : 

Provided that this condition shall not preclude withdrawal for the 
purpose of building a house on any plot of land taken on lease 
from the Government; 

(d) the house shall be purchased or redeemed within three month# 
from the date of withdrawal; , 

(f) that In the case of withdrawal for the purpose of repayment of loan, 

the subscriber has produced necessary deeds and papers before 
the Government proving his undisputed title to the land and the 
house thereon and the loan shall be repaid within three month# 
from the date of withdrawal. 



2868 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGRAH^YANA 80, 1879 [Part II 


6-E, (1) A subscriber who has been permitted under clause (a) of rule 0-A 
to withdraw money from the amount standing to his credit in the 
Fund shall submit an annual declaration on or before the 31st 
December, in such form as may from time to time be prescribed by 
the Government and satisfy the Government if called upon* to do 
so, by the production of tax receipts, title deeds, or documents, that 
the house remains in his sole ownership and that he has not parted 
with the possession thereof, by way of sale, mortgage, gift, exchange, 
or lease for a term exceeding three years, without the previous 
permission of the Government. 

(2) If at any time before retirement a subscriber parts with the possession 
of the house contrary to the provisions of sub-rule (1), the sum 
withdrawn by him shall forthwith be repayable together with 
interest thereon at the rate determined under rule 4, by the sub- 
scriber to the Fund in one instalment: 

Provided that a subscriber whose deposits in the Fund carry no interest 
shall not be liable to pay any interest on any sum repayable by him." 

2. The amendments hereby made shall be deemed to have come into force on 
the 12th April, 1855. 

[No. 13/18/57 -AIS (III)-D .] 
S. P. MUKERJEE, Under Secy. 


ORDER 

New Delhi' 2, the 10 th December 1957 

S.RO. 4023.— In pursuance of clause (22) of Article 366 of the Constitution 
of India, the President is pleased to recognise His Highness Raja Bhanu Prakash 
Singh as the Ruler of Narsingurh (Madhya Pradesh) with effect from the 17th 
July, 1957 in succession to His late Highness Raja Sir Vikram Singh, K.C.I.E, 

[No. F.5/36/57-P011.III.] 

V. VISWANATHAN, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER 

New Delhi-2, the 13 th December 1957 

S.R.O. 4024.— In pursuance of clause (e) of the first proviso to sub-rule (2) 
of rule 1 of the Central Civil Services (Conduct) Rules, 1955, the^ President 
hereby declares that the said Rules shall not apply to persons holding the follow- 
ing posts under the Delhi Administration, namely: — 

1. ' Chairman, Industrial Advisory Board. 

2. Chairman, Public Relations Committee. 

[No. P.3/27/57 -Delhi.] 
D. D. GOTHI, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi-3, the 2nd December 1957 

S.R.O. 4025. — In pursuance of Sub-section (2) of Section 4 of the Port Ha] 
Committees, Act, 1932 (XX of 1S32), the Central Government is pleased to 
nominate Shri G. N. Kowshik, Executive Health Officer, Bombay Corporation, 
Bombay, as member of the Port Haj Committee Bombay, in the vacancy caused 
by the retirement of Dr. V. V. Puri. 

[No. 8 04-W ANA/57.] 


S.R.O. 4026. — In pursuance of Sub-Section (2) of Section 4 of the Port Haj 
Committee Act, 1932 (XX of 1932), the Central Government is pleased to 
nominate Shri K. P, Mandhekar, I.P.S., Deputy Commissioner of Police, Bombay, 
aa a member of the Port Haj Committee, Bombay, vice Shri John Lobo, IPS. 

[No. 805-WANA/57.] 

M. A, VELLODI, Dy. Secy. 



Sec. 3] TtHE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGRAHA YANA 30, 1879 2869 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Expenditure) 

New Delhi, the 10th December 1957 

S.R.O. 4027. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
and clause (5) of article 148 of the Constitution, the President, after consultation 
with the Comptroller and Auditor General of India in relation to persons serving 
in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department hereby directs that the following 
amendments shall be made to the Civil Service Regulations, namely: — 

In (Regulation) article 822 of the said Regulations, in clause (a)— 

(i) for the words ‘British Service', the words ‘Government service' shall be 

substituted. 

(ii) the ‘full stop' occurring at the end shall be omitted and the following 

words added, namely: — 

“including the fact of recovery of leave and pension contributions”. 

[No. F.l (B)-Est.IV / 34.] 
C. B. GULATI, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 13 th December 1957 

S.R.O. 4028. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 
1 of the Industrial Finance Corporation (Amendment) Act, 1967 (43 of 1957), the 
Central Government hereby appoints the 21st day of December, 1957 as the date 
on which tho said Act shall come Into force. 


[No. F. 2(85)-Corp./50.1 
N. R. REDDY, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 16 th December 1957 

S.R.O. 4029. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of sec- 
tion 1 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 (74 of 1956), and in supersession of the 
notification of the Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs, S.R.O. 
No. 2960 dated tho 13t.h September, 1957 and all other previous notifications on 
the subject, the Central Government hereby appoints the 1st day of April, 1958, 
as the date on which section 15 of the said Act shall come into force. 

[No. 9(1 1 6) -ST / 57.1 
M. K. VENKATACHALAM, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Revenue) 

New Delhi, the 6th December 1957 

S.R.O. 4030. — Consequent on the abolition of the post of Junior Authorised 
Representative, Income-tax Appellate Tribunal, Madras, the powers conferred on 
Shri S. R. Sabapathy by this Ministry Notification No. 77, dated the 11th July 
1956. are hereby withdrawn. 

[No. 58.] 

P. N. D£S GUPTA, Dy. Secy. 

(Department of Revenue) 

Medicinal and Toilet Preparations 
New Delhi, the 16th December 1957 

S.R.O. 4031. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 19 of the 
Medicinal and T.oilet Preparations (Excise Duties) Act, 1955 (16 of 1955), the 



2870 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 [Pa«t U 

Central Government hereby makes the following further amendment in the 
Medicinal and Toilet Preparations (Excise Duties) Rules, 1950, namely: — 

In the Schedule to the said Rules — 

(i) the preparations “Drakshasava” and “Draksharishta” appearing under 

the head “Non-phamiacopoeiai preparations” shall be omitted; 
and 

(ii) the following shall be inserted at the end, namely: — 

"Ayurvedic preparations’’ 

Draksharishta, 

Drakshasava. 

LNo. 18.J 


Central Excises 
CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 7th December 1957 

S.R.O. 4032. — In the notification (S.R.O. No. 3324) of the Government of India, 
Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue) No. 85/ 57-Central Excises, dated 
the 19th October, 1957, printed on page 2258 of Section 3 of Part II of the Gazette 
of India of the 19th October 1957, omit the word "working”. 

[No. 103/57.1 
B. D. DESHMUKH, Dy, Secy. 


(Department of Revenue) 

Customs 

New Delhi, the 21st December 1957 

S.R.C- 4033. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as in force in India and as applied to the State of 
Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby makes the following further amend- 
ment in the notification of the Government of India in the late Finance Depart- 
ment (Central Revenues) No, 33-Customs, dated the 22nd June, 1935, namely: — 

In Schedule I annexed to the said notification, under the heading 
"A — GENERAL”, the following entries against Serial No. 20 and Serial No. 28P 
shall be omitted, namely: — 

26. Aircraft materials s. ch Provided they ha - e been So much of the duty as 

as 3-plywood, duralumin given for use as aircraft is in excess of 3 per cent 

sheets and fabric, but ex- materials some special ad valorem, 

eluding dope. shape or quality which 

would not be essential for 
their use for any other 
purpose 

2&P. Striking combs used So much as is in excess 

in textile machinery of 10 per cent ad valorem, 

[No. 300.] 

S.R.O. 4034, — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as in force in India and as applied to the State of 
Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby exempts aircraft materials such 
as 3-ply wood duralumin sheets and fabric, but excluding dope, when imported! 
into India or the State of Pondicherry, from so much of the customs duty leviable 
thereon as is in excess of the duty of 3 per cent, ad valorem: 

Provided they have been given for use as aircraft materials some special shape 
or quality which would not oe essential for their use for any other purpose. 

[No. 307.] 



Sfc. S] l!HE GAAtl IE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 2871 


S.R.O. 403S.— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as in force in India and as applied to the State of 
Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby exempts striking combs used in 
textile machinery, when imported into India or the State of Pondicherry, from 
so much of the customs duty leviable thereon as is In excess of the duty of 10 
per cent, ad valorem. 


[No. 308.] 

M. A. RANGASWAMY, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Revenue) 

Customs 

New Delhi, the 21st December 1957 

S.R.O, 4030,— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 0 oi the Sea 
i ustoms Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), the Central Government hereby makes the follow- 
ing further amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the 
Mmistry of Finance (Revenue Division) No. 77-Customs, dated the 19th August 
1950, namely: — 

In the said notification, for the words “Madras and Cochin’’, the words “Madras, 
Cochin and Visakhapatnam” shall be substituted, 

[No. 309.] 


ORDER 

Stamps 

New Delhi, the 12 th December 1957 

S.R.O. 4037,— In exercise Of the powers conierred by clause (a) of sub-section 
(1) of section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (2 of 1899), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby remits the duty with which the debentures of the value of Rs, 1 
crore Issued by the Bombay State Financial Corporation are chargeable under 
the said act. 


[No. 34.] 

M. PANCHAPPA, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY 

New Delhi, the 16tli December 19 57 

S.R.O, 4038. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (b) of sub-section 
(2) of section 0 of the Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1952, (74 of 1952), 
read with Article 106 (lv) of the Articles of Association of the Agra Merchants 
Chamber Ltd., Agra, (hereinafter referred to as the Chamber,) the Central Govern- 
ment hereb|y appoints, 

Shri D. R. Pendsc, M.A. (Cantab), Inspecting Officer, Forward Markets 
Commission, Government of India, Bombay-2 

on the Board of Directors of the Chamber to represent the Central Government. 

[No. F.35(8)-TMP/97,] 


(Indian Standards Institution) 

Delhi, the 5th December 1957 

SJt.O. 4039.— In pursuance of sub-regulation (3) of regulation 7 of the Indian 
Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955, the Indian Standards 
Institution notifies that the marking fee per unit for Tea-Chest Plywood Panels, 
details of which are given In the Schedule hereto annexed, has been determined 
and it shall come into force with effect from 1st January, 1958. 




2872 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21 , 1957/AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 [Pakt II 


The Schedule 


Preduct/Class of No. and Title of 

Products Relevant Indian Unit 

Standard 


Marking 

fee per Remarks 

Unit 


Tea-Chest Plywood 
Panels. 


IS : xo — 1953 Spe- 
cification for Ply- 
wood Tea-Chests 
(Revised) 


One Hundred Nil 
Square Feet 


Contribution to the 
Plywood Industry 
Voluntary , Contri- 
bution f. iTs Fund 
would continue to 
be made to the De- 
velopment Wing, Mi 
nistry of Commerce 
and Industry. 


A. N. GHOSH, Jt. Director. 

[No. MDC/ 11 ( 6 ).] 


Delhi, the 9 th December 1957 

8 .R.O. 4940 . — In pursuance of sub-regulation ( 1 ) of regulation 8 of the Indian 
Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Standards 
Institution hereby notifies that two licences, particulars of which are given in 
the Schedule hereto annexed, have been renewed for a period of one year. 


The Schedule 


SI. Licence Period of validity 

No. No. and 

Date 

From To 


Name and Articlc/Process Relevant 

address of the covered by the Indian 

Licensee licence Standard 


I CM/L-21 10-12-1957 
3-12-1956 


9-12-1958 ] Messrs. Devi- Aluminium 

dayal Metal Sheets, Strips 
Industries (Pri- and Circles — 
vate) Limited, Grade A and 
Tulsiram Gupta Grade B. 

Mills Estate, 

Darukhana, 

Bombay- 10. 


IS : 21-1953 
Specification 
for Wrought 
Aluminium 
for Utensils. 


2 CM/L-22 17 - 12-1957 16-12-1958 

13-12-1956 


Do. Wrought Alu- Do' 

minium Uten- 
sils — Grade A 
and Grade B. 


D. V. KARMARKAR, Dy. Director (Marks.) 


[No, MDC- 12 /( 86 ).] 
T. S* KUNCHITHAFATHAM, Under Secy. 




Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGRAHAYANA SO, 1879 2873 


ERRATA 

In the Schedule annexed to the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (Indian 
Standards Institution) Notification No. MDC/11(4) dated the 18th November 1957, 
published in the Gazette of India, Part II — Section 3, dated the 30th November 
1957 as S.R.O. 3809, please make the following alterations: 


Page 

No. 

SI. No. 

Column 

for 

Read 

2767 

7 

4 

(last but one line) 

60 ° C to 30 ° C 

6 o° C to 30 ° C 

Do. 

14 

4 

(line 2 ) 

particular 

particulars 


MINISTRY OF FOOD & AGRICULTURE 
(Department of Agriculture) 

(Indian Council of Agricultural Research) 

New Delhi-2, the 9 th December 1967 

S.R.O. 4041. — Under Section 4(il) of the Indian Cotton Cess Act 1923 (14 of 
1923), the Central Government hereby nominate Dr. R. S. Bhatt, Economic 
Botanist, Madhya Pradesh, Indore, as a member of the Indian Central Cotton 
Committee, Bombay, upto 31st March, 1058, vice Dr. V. G. Valdya. 

I [No. 1-42/60-Com.IL] 

New Delhi, the 10th. December 1957 

S.R.O. 4042. — In pursuance of the provisions of sub-sections (e) and (f) of 
Section 4 of the Indian Oilseeds Committee Act, 1946 (9 of 1946), the Central 
Government hereby appoint: — 

(i) The Director of Agriculture, Punjab, Chandigarh; and 

(ii) Raja Surendra Singh of Nalagarh, M.L.A., 1-A, Race Course Road, 

Patiala. 

respectively, as members of the Indian Central Oilseeds Committee, on being 
nominated by the State Government of Punjab. 

Their term of appointment is for a period of 3 years with effect from the 
1st April, 1967. 

[No. 6-4/57-Com.I.] 
R. D, THAWANI, Under Secy. 


(Department of Food) 

ORDERS 


New Delhi , the 14 th December 1967 


+ . - In . f xe *rlse of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essen- 

+J ? 1 , ™ m01 ' leis Act, 1955 (10 of 1955), the Central Government hereby makes 

X 10 . foll ;Z' 1 r, ng furt , her amendment in the Inter-Zonal Wheat Movement Control 
Urder, 11)57, namely: — 


Amendment 


In the] 
shall be s 

"(e) 


S u i ! i °l rd J er ’ in clause 2 , for sub-clause (e), the following 
iubstituted, namely:— 


sub-clause 


“Wheat" includes its products other than wheat bran, biscuits, bread, 
cakes and pastries," 


[No. 201(3)/J/57-PY,II.] 



2874 THE PAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 [Part II 


New Delhi , the 1 6th December 1957 


S.R.O. 4044.— In pursuance of clause 2(b) of the Wheat Roller Flour Mills 
(Licensing and Control) Order, 1957, the Centra) Government hereby appoints 
the following officers to exercise the powers and perform the duties of Inspectors 
under the said Order, namely: — 


Shri H. G. V. Reddy, Deputy Director (Food), Southern Region, Madras. 
Shri M. Jankiraman, Asstt. Director (Food), Southern Region, Madras. 

Shri S. C. Tekwani, Assistant Director (Food), Western Region, Bombay. 
Shri C. V. Gaekvvad, Asstt. Director (Food), Western Region, Manmad. 

Shri H. N. Nagar, Asstt. Director (Food), Western Region, Nagpur. 

Shri P. V. Tahiliani, Asstt. Director (Food), Western Region, Bhopal. 

Shri K. R. Narayan Rao, Asstt. Director (Food), Western Region, Ahmedabad. 

and makes the following amendment to the notification of Government of India, 
in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture (Department of Food) No. S.R.O. 3082, 
dated the 25th September, 1957, namely. 

In the said notification, after Item 8 the following items shall be inserted, 
namely: — 

“9. Shri H. G. V. Reddy, Dy, Director (Food), Southern Region, Madras. 

10. Shri M. Jankiraman, Asstt. Director (Food), Southern Region, Madras, 

11. Shri S, C. Tekwani, Asstt. Director (Food), Western Region, Bombay, 

12. Shri C. V. Gaekwad, Asstt. Director (Food), Western Region, Manmad. 

13. Shri H, N. Nagar, Asstt. Director (Food), Western Region, Nagpur. 

14. Shri P. V. Tahiliani, Asstt. Director (Food), Western Region, Bhopal. 

15. Shri K. R. Narayan Rao, Assistant Director (Food), Western Region, 

Ahmedabad.” 


[No. 204(11) /57-PY.II/FM.] 


B. P. BAGCHI, Jt. Sccy. 


MINI 8 TRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 12 th December 1957 

S.R.O. 4045. — Dr. George Prasadananda Patnaik, L.D.Sc. Anand Bhaban, 
Tulsipur, Cuttack, has been duly elected as a member of the Dental Council of 
India from Orissa under clause (a) of section 3 of the Dentists Act, 1948 (10 of 
1948). with effect from the 29th October, 1957. 

[No, F.6-0/ 57-MI. 1 
KRISHNA BIHARI, Under Secy. 

MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS 
(Department of Transport) 

(Transport Wing) 

Ports 

New Delhi, the 10 th December 1957 

S.R.O. 4046. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 33 of the Indian 
Ports Act 1908 (XV of 1908) the Central Government hereby makes the follow- 
ing amendments with effect from 15th February, 1958, in the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Railways (Railway Board) No, 2101T.C. 
dated 6th December 1954, namely: — 

In the schedule annexed to the said notification: — 

(i) the words and figures occurring in the columns (1), (2) & (3) in item III 

of the Schedule shall be omitted. 

(ii) The words and brackets "(not being a vessel included in head III of the 

Schedule)” occurring in Note 3 shall be omitted, 

[No. F. 17-PIII(2)/57-PG,] 




Sic. 3] tHE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21. 1957/AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 2875 

S.R.O. 4047.— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 read with sec- 
tion 5 of the Madras Out Ports Landing and Shipping Fees Act, 1885 (Madras 
Act III of 1885), the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
amendments with effect from 15th January 1958 in the notification of the Gov- 
ernment of India in the late department of Commerce No, 222 P & L/33(l-B) 
dated the 5th August, 1933, as amended by notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Railways No, 2101-TC(i) dated 26-11-53, namely: — 

In the Schedule of Landing and Shipping Fees annexed to the said notification 
under the heading 

“50 Metals, Minerals and Articles of Metal not otherwise classified under 
hardware and machinery”, for the words "manganese and Iron ore" 
occurring against entry ‘P’ in column 2 the following words shall 
be substituted, namely: — 

“Manganese, Chrome and Iron ore”. 

[No. F.17-PIII(2)/57-PG.] 

S.R.O. 4048. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-section (1) of sec- 
tion 35 of the Indian Ports Act, 1008 (XV of 1908) the Central Government here- 
by makes the following further amendment in the Rules published with the 
notification of the Government of India, in the late Department of Commerce 
No. 222 P & L/33/VI dated the 30th September, 1933 namely: — 

In rule 10 of the said rules after note ‘E’ the following note shall be Inserted 
namely : — 

Note 'F': 

When the dock is used simultaneously by two or more crafts belonging to 
private parties or to other departments of Government the total charges may be 
charged proportionately, the proportion being decided by the Port Administra- 
tive Officer, on the basis of floor area occupied, subject to a limit of not leas 
than half the charges prescribed for each vessel but that when craft belonging 
to the Port is docked m combination with other craft of private or other Gov- 
ernment ownership, such Port craft will be excluded from calculation of pro- 
portionate charges, that is as if the Port craft had not been docked, The deci- 
sion of the Port Administrative Officer in the apportionment of charges shall be 
final. 

[No. F.17-PIII(2')/57-P.G,] 

SJR.O. 4049. — In exercise of the powers conferred bly sub-section (1) of section 
3 d of the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (15 of 1908), and In supersession of all previous 
rules on the subject, the Central Government hereby makes the following rules 
regulating the levy of fees for pilotage in the Port of Vizagapatam. 

RULES 

1. Short Title,— These rules may be called the Vizagapatam Port Pilotage 
(fees) Rules, 1957. 

2. Definition. — In these rules: 

(i) ‘‘daylight hours” means the hours from 06-00 to 18-00 hours 
<ii) “night hours" means the hours other than “daylight hours” 
and (iii) “Schedule" means schedule to these rules, 

3. Fees for pilotage during daylight hours. — Fees for pilotage in the port of 
Vizagapatam during daylight hours shall be as specified in Schedule I. 

4. Fees for pilotage during night hours. — Fees for pilotage in the port of 

Vizagapatam during night hours shall be as specified in Schedule II. 

5. Detention fee— (a) It a vessel is not ready to sail within one hour of hoist- 
ing the Pilot Jack, a detention fee of Rs. 40 per hour or part thereof In excess 
of the first hour after hoisting the Jack shall be levied. 

(b) If a vessel is not ready to shift within an hour of hoisting the ‘S’ Flag, a 
detention fee of Rs. 40 per hour or part thereof in excess of the first hour after 
hoisting the ‘S’ flag shall be levied. 

(c) If a vessel Is not ready to enter within 15 minutes of the pilot boarding 
the vessel, a detention fee of Rs. 40 per hour or part thereof in excess of the 
first 15 minutes after the piloi boards the vessel at the Roads, shall be levied. 



2876 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1957/AC.RAHAYANA 50, 1879 [Part II 


6. Fees for on carriage of pilot . — If an outward bound vessel carries away 
a pilot to sea, a compensation of Rs, 40 per day shall be payable for pilots of 
all rank. In addition to this compensation the master of the vessel shall also be 
liable to bear the expenses of the pilot and the cost of sending him back to 
Vizagapatam. 

Schedule I 
( See Rule 3) 


Serial Description of vessel Rate of fee 

No. 


1. All mechanically propelled ves- 
sels except sailing vessels not 
exceeding 500 tons net register- 
ed tonnage. 

2. All other vessels when services 
of port pilot are actually made 
use of. 


Rs. 8/- per 100 tons of net registered 
tonnage with a minimum charge 
of Rs. 40/- per vessel. 

Rs. 40/- per vessel. 


Schedule II 
(See Rule 4) 


1. Vessels of draft upto 26' 0" 

between 18-00 hrs.. — 21-00 hrs. 

2. Vessels of draft over 26' 0" 

between 18-00 hrs. — 21-00 hrs. 

3. Vessels of draft upto 26' 0" 

between 21-00 hrs. and 06-00 hrs. 

of the next morning. 

4. Vessels of draft over 26' 0" 
between 21-00 hrs. and 06-00 
hrs. of the next morning. 

5. Mechanically propelled vessels 
of less than 200 tons net regis- 
tered tonnage or sailing vessels 
of less than 600 tons net regis- 
tered tonnage. 


Rs, 100/- per vessel plus the fee 

chargeable for such vessel during 
day light hours, 

Rs. 200/- per vessel plus the fee 

chargeable for such vessel during 
day light hours. 

Rs. 400/- per vessel plus the fee 

chargeable for such vessel during 
day light hours. 

Rs. 1,000 per vessel plus the fee 

chargeable for such vessel during 
day light hours, 

Rs. 46/- per vessel plus the fee 
chargeable for such vessel’s during 
day light hours. 


[No. F.17-PIII(2)/57-PG.J 

S.R.O. 4050. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of sec- 
tion 35 of the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (XV of 1908), the Central Government 
hereby makes the following further amendments In the rules published with 
the notification of the Government of India in the late department of Com- 
merce No. 222-P & L/33/VI dated the 30th September, 1933 and as amended 
from time to time namely: — 1 

For sub rule (5) of rule 11 of the said rules, the following shall be substi- 
tuted namely : — 

“(5). Hopper Barges: Rs. 40 for the first 4 hours or part thereof plus 
Rs, 10 for every extra hour.” 

[No. F.17-PIII(2)57/PG.] 

S.R.O. 4051.. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 read with sec- 
tion 5 of the Madras Out Ports Landing and Shipping Fees Act, 1885 (Madras 
Act III of 1885), the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
amendments with effect from 15th January 1958 in the notification of the Gov- 
ernment of India in the Department of Commerce No. 222 P & L/22(l-A) dated 
the 5th August, 1933, namely: — 

In the schedule of Landing and Shipping Fees annexed to the said notifica- 
tion under the sub-heading "72 Tobacco and Smoker's: requisites” 
for items E.l and E.2 and the entries against such items, the follow- 
ing shall be substituted, namely: — 


No. of Description of goods Unit Rate 

item. Rs. and naye paise 

E Tobacco raw country Ton 2-00 


[No, F,17-PIII(2)/57-F,G.] 



Sec. S] T)HE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21. 1957/AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 2877 


S.B.O. 4052, — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of sec- 
tion 35 of the Indian Ports Act (XV of 1908) the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendments in the rules published with the noti- 
fication of the Government of India in the late Department of Commerce No. 
222-F&L/VI dated the 30th September 1933 namely: — 

In rule 3A of the said rule after sub-rule (vi) the following sub-rule shall 
be inserted, namely: — 

"(vii) For Shifting a dumb 
barge or floating craft 
from one place to another 
within the inner harbour. 

Rg. 20 per each operation. 

[No. F.17-PIII(2)/3T-PG.] 
D. A. R. WARRIAR, Under Secy. 


(Department of Transport) 

(Transport Wing) 

New Delhi, the 12 th December 1957 

SJt.O. 4653— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (2) of rule 11, 
clause (b) of sub-rule (2) of rule 14 and sub-rule (1) of rule 23 of the Central 
Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1967, the President 
hereby directs that the following amendments shall be made in the Schedule to 
the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Transport 
No. S.R.O. 010, dated the 28th February, 1967 namely: — ■ 

In the said Schedule: — 

(1) in Part II for the existing entries relating to “Regional Sailing Vessels 
Organisation, Bombay/Madras/Masulipatam”, the following shall be 
substituted, namely: — 

“Regional Sailing Vessels 
Organisation , Bombay / 

Tuticorinj Masulipatam. 


X 2 

3 

4 

5 

All posts. Deputy Director 

Deputy Director 

All 

Director 

General of Shipp- 

General of Shipp- 


General of 

ing. Bomb ay. 

ing, Bombay, in- 


Shipping, 

incharge of 
sailing vessels. 

charge of sailing 
vessels. 


Bombay. 1 


(2) in Part III for the existing entries relating to "Regional Sailing Vessels 
Organisation, Bombay/Madras/Masulipatam” the following shall be 
substituted, namely:— 


Regional Sailing Vessels 
Organisation, Bombay I 
Tuticorin! Masulipatam. 


I 2 

3 

4 5 


All Deputy Director 

Deputy Director 

All Director 


posts. General ol Shipp- 

General of Shipp- 

General of 


ing, Bombay, 

ing, Bombay, 

Shipping, 
Bombay. ” 


intjharge o f 

incharge of 


sailing 

sailing 


vessels. 

vessels. 




TNo. 40-MS(213)/B7,]. 
C. P, SRIVASTAVA, Dy. Secy. 




2878 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGRAHAYANA SO, 1879 [Part II 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING AND SUPPLY 

New Delhi, the 13th December 1957 

S.R.O. 4054. — The following draft of a further amendment to the Explosives 
Rules, 1940, which the Central Government proposes to make in exercise of thei 

¥owers conferred by sections 5 and 7 of the Indian Explosives Act, 1884 (4 of 
884), is published as required by section 18 of the said Act, for the information 
of all persons likely to be affected thereby; and notice is hereby given that the 
said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 24th January, 1958. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 

Draft Amendment ■ 

In the said Rules; — 

In the second proviso to sub-rule (1) of rule 91, after the words " a Sub- 
Divisional Magistrate” the words “'or an Executive First Class 
Magistrate” shall be inserted. 

[No. S.&P.II-Exp.2(3)/57.] 

New Delhi , the 15 th December 1957 

S.R.O. 4055. — The following rules for a competitive examination to be held 
by the Union Public Service Commission in July 1958 for the purpose of filling 
vacancies in the Central Engineering Service, Class I are published for general 
information. 

RULES 

1. For the purpose of these Rules— 

(a) “Government” means the Government of India. 

(b) “Thei Commission” means the Union Public Service Commission. 

(c) "The Service” means the Central Engineering Service, Class I, parti- 
culars in respect of which are given in Appendix IV. 

2. A competitive examination for admission to the Service shall be held in 
India at such times and places as may be prescribed in the Notice issued by the 
Commission. Every such notice will, when possible, announce the number of 
vacancies to be filled on the result of the examination. 

3. If the examination held under this part of these Rules is a combined exami- 
nation for the purpose of making appointments to more than one Service or 
Department, the following provisions shall apply:— 

(a) Any person may apply to the admitted as a candidate for appointment 
in all or any of these Services or Departments for which he is eligible. 
If he wishes to compete for appointment in more than one Service 
or Department, he shall state in his application from which Services 
or Departments he wishes to compete for and the order of his pre- 
ference for them, and in such cases only one application form will 
be necessary and one payment of the fees referred to in rule 14 (and 
Appendix III) will be sufficient. 

(b) Government shall assign successful candidates to each Service or 
Department on a consideration of all circumstances including any 
personal preference expressed by the candidate. 

4. The maximum number of candidates to be admitted to any examination 
may at the discretion of the Commission be limited to such number, not being 
less than 200, a s the Commission may decide. If a limit is imposed and the 
number of candidates exceeds that limit, the Commission shall select from the 
applicants those who shall be admitted to the examination, and in doing so shall 
have regard to the suitability of the applicants. 

B. A candidate must apply to be admitted to the examination before such date, 
in such manner, and in such form as the Commission may prescribe. 

6. A candidate must be either 
(a) a citizen of India, or 
(b) a subject of Sikkim, or 

(c) a person of Indian origin who has migrated from Pakistan with the 
intention of permanently settling in India, or 

(d) a subject of Nepal or of a Portuguese or former French possession in 
India. 



Sec, S] fHE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 31. 1957/AC.RAHAYANA 30, 1870 2879 


Note 1, — The appointment of candidates in categories (c) and (d) above will 
be subject to the issue of certificates of eligibility in their favour by the Govern- 
ment of India. The certificate of eligibility in respect of candidates belonging to 
category (c) will be valid only for a period of one year from the date of his 
appointment beyond which he would be retained in service only if he has become 
a citizen of India. Certificates of eligibility will not, however, be necessary in 
the case of candidates belonging to any one of the following categories: — 

(1) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan before the 19th July 

1948, and have ordinarily been residing in India since then. 

(2) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan after the 18th 

but before the 30th September 1948 and got themselves 
as citizen within the time allowed. 

(3) Non-citizens who entered service under the Government of India 

before the commencement of the Constitution, viz., 28th January, 
1950 and who have continued in such service since then. Any such 
person who re-entered or may re-enter such service with break 
after the 26th January 1950, will, however, require certificate of 
eligibility in the usual way. 

Note 2. — A candidate in whose case a certificate of eligibility is necessary 
may be admitted to the examination and he may also be provisionally appointed 
subject to the necessary certificate being eventually issued in his favour by 
Government. 

7. (a) No male candidate who has more than one wife living shall be eligible 
for. appointment to any of the Service appointments to which are made on the 
results of this competitive examination unless the Government of India after 
being satisfied that there are special grounds for doing so, exempt any male 
candidate from the operation of this rule. 

(b) No female candidate who has married a person having already a wife 
living shall be eligible for appointment to the service unless the Government of 
India after being satisfied that there are special grounds for doing so, exempt 
any female candidate from the operation of this rule. 

8. On the date prescribed by the Commission in their Notice of examina- 
tion issued under Rule 2, a candidate must have attained the age of 20 and 
must not have attained the age of 25 provided that the upper age limit of 25 
will be relaxable upto 28 in the case of candidates who are permanently employed 
in the Central Public Works Department or who were continuously in temporary 
service under the Central Public Works Department for at least 3 years or who 
were within the above specified age limits on the date of their employment in 
the Central Public Works Department, such relaxation being limited to two 
examinations only. 

Departmental candidates must obtain previous permission of the Head of the 
Department to appear for the examination. 

Note. — The upper age limits prescribed above will be relaxable: — 

(i) Upto a maximum of five years if a candidate belongs to a Scheduled 

Caste or a Scheduled Tribe. 

(ii) Upto a maximum of three years if a candidate is a bona fide displaced 

person from Pakistan or from the unliberated areas of Jammu and 
Kashmir. 

This concession will not, however, be admissible to a candidate who has 
already appeared at five previous examinations or in the case of those employed 
In the Central Public Works Department at seven previous examinations. 

(ill) Upto a maximum of eight years if a candidate belongs to a Scheduled 
Caste or a Scheduled Tribe and is also a bona fide displaced person 
from Pakistan or from the unliberated areas of Jammu and Kashmir. 

This concession will not, however, be admissible to a candidate who has 
ipeared at ten previous examinations or in the case of those employed 
itral Public Works Department at twelve previous examinations. 

Upto a maximum of three years if a candidate is a resident of the 
former French Settlements which have now become part of India 
and has been receiving his education through the medium of 
French. 

(v) Upto a maximum of 4 years if a candidate belongs to the Andaman 
and Nicobar Islands, 


already a: 
In the Ce 
(iv) 


July 1948 
registered 



2 88o THE GAZETTE Of INDIA DECEMBER 21 1957/AGRAHA YANA 50, 1879 [Pari II 


cave as provided above the age limits prescribed can in no 

case be relaxed 

9 A candidate must satisfy the Commission that his character is such as to 
make him suitable for appointment to the. Service/Department. 

10, A candidate must have- 

la) obtained a degree m Engineering from a university incorporated by an 
Act of the Central or of a State Legislature in India; or 

(b) passed Sections A and B of the Associate Membership Examination of 

the Institution of Engineers (India) or have any other educational 
qualifications, exceptmg a B E degree (Tele-Communication) award- 
ed by Indian Universities, recognized by that institution as exempt- 
ing from passing these section; or 

(c) obtained an engineering degree of one of the universities mentioned 

in Appendix I under the conditions prescribed in that Appendix; or 

(d) passed the Honours Diploma examination in Civil, Mechanical or 

Electrical Engineering of the Loughborough College, Leicestershire, 
provided the candidate has passed the common preliminary examina- 
tion or has been exempted therefrom 

Note I — In exceptional cases the Commission may treat a candidate, who has 
not any of the foregoing qualifications, as a qualified candidate provided that he 
has passed examinations conducted by other institutions, the standard of which, 
in the opinion of the Commission justifies his admission to the. examination. 

Note II — Candidates who have appeared at an examination the passing of 
which would render them eligible to appear at this examination, but have not 
been informed of the. result, may apply for admission to the examination Candi- 
dates who intend to appear at such a qualifying examination may also apply 
provided that the qualifying examination is completed before the commencement 
of this examination Their applications will be accepted provisionally and they 
will be required to furnish proof of having passed the examination as soon as 
possible and in any case not later than two months after the commencement of 
this examination 

11, No candidate shall be admitted to the. examination unless he holds a certi- 
ficate of admission from the Commission 

The decision of the Commission as to the eligibility or otherwise of a candi- 
date for admission to the competitive examination shall be final. 

12 A candidate found guilty of impersonation or of submitting fabricated 
decuments or documents which have been tampered with or of making statements 
which are incorrect or false or suppressing material information or of using or 
attempting to use unfair means in the examination hall or otherwise resorting 
to any other irregular or improper means for obtaining admission to the exami- 
nation may, m addition to rendering himself liable to a criminal prosecution, be 
debarred either permanently or for a specified period — 

(a) by the Commission from admission to any examination or appearance 

at any interview held by the Commission for selection of candidates, 
and 

(b) by the Central Government from employment under the Government. 

13 No recommendations except those required m the application form shall 
be taken into consideration Any attempt on the part of a candidate to obtain 
support for his candidature by other means may disqualify him for admission 

14 Candidates must pay such examination fees as Government may prescribe 
(see Appendix III) No claim for a refund of any of these feet will ordinarily 
be entertained, nor can they be held in reserve for any other examination or 
selection. 

15 Examination under these Rules shall be conducted by the Commission in 
the manner prescribed m Appendix II. 

16 (a) After every examination, the Commission shall make a list of candidates 
In order of their merit as disclosed by the aggregate marks finally awarded to 
each candidate, and m that order, so many candidates upto the number of 
vacancies announced under Rule 2 above, as are found by the Commission to be 
qualified by the examination, and are considered by Government to be suitable 
In all other respects, shall be appointed 



Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21. 19.5 7/A GRAHAYANA 30, 1879 2 88r 


(b) Appointments to vacancies to be filled by members of a particular com- 
munity or communities shall be made by Government or the appointing authority 
as the case may be, in the order of merit of the candidates belonging to the 
particular community or communities, provided they have qualified in the 
examination and are in. all respects suitable for employment in the service. 

(c) Success in the examination confers no right to appointment, unless Gov- 
ernment are satisfied, after such enquiry as may be considered necessary that the 
candidate is suitable in all respects for appointment to the public Service. 

17. A candidate must be in good mental and bodily health and free from any 
physical defect likely to interfere with the efficient performance of the duties of 
a member of the Service, and a candidate who is found after examination by a 
Medical Board not to satisfy these requirements will not be appointed. Chily 
those candidates who are likely to the considered for appointment will be 
physically examined. 

In order to prevent disappointment candidates are advised to have themselves 
examined by a Government medical officer of the standing of a Civil Surgeon, 
before applying for admission to the examination. Particulars of the nature of 
the medical test to which candidates will he submitted before appointment and 
of the standards required can be had from the Commission. 

18. (a) The selected candidates shall be appointed as Assistant Executive 
Engineers on probation for two years. Their pay shall commence from the date 
of appointment under these rules and their service for increments, leave and 
pons ion shall count from the same date. In the event of more than one candidate 
being appointed, their seniority inter se shall be determined according to their 
position in thei competitive examination. 

(b) On the completion of the period of probation, the Assistant Executive 
Engineers shall, if considered fit for permanent appointment, be confirmed in 
their appointments. 

(c) The Government may extend the period of two years specified in sub-rule 
(a) above. 

(d) If on the expiration of the period of probation referred to in sub-rule (a) 
above or of any extension thereof under sub-rule (c) above as the case may be 
the Government are of opinion that an Assistant Executive Engineer is not fit far 
permanent employment, or if at any time during such period of probation or 
extension they arc satisfied that an Assistant Executive Engineer wUl not be fit 
for permanent appointment on the expiration of such period or extension they may 
discharge the Assistant Executive Engineer or pass such order as they think fit. 

(e) If no action is taken by Government under sub-rule (b) or (c) or (d) 

of this rule:, the period after the prescribed period of probation shall be treated 
as an engagement from month to month terminable on either side on the expira- 
tion of on calendar month’s notice in writing. * 

19. Probationers will also be required to pass a test in Hindi before confirma- 
tion. 


Appendix I 

List of University degrees which will be recognised for admission to the 
Examination [vide rule 10(c)] 

Aberdeen. — B.Sc. Engineering (Honours or Ordinary Degree). 

Cambridge.— Ordinary degree B.A. in Engineering provided the graduate has 
passed in the. principal subjects, Engineering I, Engineering II and Engineering 


Durha ijn. — B.Sc. in Marine Engineering. 

Gtaspokn. — B.Sc. in Naval Architecture (Honours or Ordinary Degree) 

Note. The above degrees will be accepted only if taken after three vears’ 
study and the passing of the regular examinations in the several UniversHioc 
The conditions as to three years’ study will not however aoclv to TnrfJmo 
having taken an Indian degree which exempts them from part rf the Univeraftv 
course, shall have taken one of the above degrees in less than three vears in 
accordance with the regulations of the University concerned. ' ur 



.2882 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 2J, 1 95 7 / A GRAHA YANA 30, 1879 [Part H 


1 — - ■— . * ‘ 

Appendix II 

Standard and Syllabus of the examination (vide Rule 15) 


Subjects Marks, 

(a) Compulsory: 

(1) English (including Essay and Precis writing) 100 

(2) General Knowledge 100 

(3) Applied Mechanics (including Strength of Materials and 

Theory of Structures) 200 

(4) Construction: 

Paper I 


(i) Building Materials and Building Construction iool 

J-200 

fii) Design of Structures iooj 

Paper II 

Roads, Railways (General principles governing the design of Railways. 

Roads, Harbours and other works) . 

(6) Surveying 

(6) Sanitary Engineering and Water Supply 

(7) Personality Test 

fb) Optional: 

Any two of the following subjects: — 

(1) Prime Movers 

(2) Hydraulic and Hydraulic Machines 

(3) Electrical Engineering 

(4) Architecture and Town Planning 

(5) Mechanical Engineering 

Note 1. — All papers must be answered in English. 

Note 2— Candidates must write the paper in their own hand. In no circum- 
stances will they be allowed the help of an amanuensis (scribe) to write down 
answers for them. 

2. A candidate must produce a certificate that he has undergone satisfactory 
training in Surveying, including practical surveying m a College or institution 
recognised by the Commission for the purpose of admission to the competitive 
examination for the Service. The training must be equivalent to that given in 
the full course for a degree or diploma in Civil Engineering. The certificate must 
toe signed toy the Principal or the Head of the Department of Surveying in the 
College or Institution. 

For this purpose the Commission wiil ordinarily accept a certificate from any 
college or institution mentioned in Rule 10 of the foregoing rules or from any 
college which is affiliated to any University mentioned in the same Rule. The 
Commission, however reserve to themselves the power not to accept any certifi- 
cate if they are satisfied that the practical training referred to therein falls short 
of the requirements of the Service, and their decision in the matter will be 
final. 

3. The standard and syllabus of the examination will be such as the Com- 
mission shall prescribe. 

4. The Commission have discretion to fix qualifying marks in any or all the 
subjects at the examination, 

5. The Commission will summon at their discretion only those candidates whom 
they consider suitable for interview for the Personality Test. 

6. Special attention will be paid in the Personality Test to assessing the 
candidates’ capacity for leadership, initiative and intellectual curiosity, tact and 
other social qualities, mental and physical energy, powers of practical application 
and integrity of character. 

7. From the marks assigned to candidates in each subject such deduction will 
be made as the Commission may consider necessary in order to secure that no 
credit is allowed for merely superficial knowledge 


100 

100 

300 


100 

100 

100 

100 

100 



ift:. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21. 1957/AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 288 J 


8 . Deductions up to 5 per cent, of the maximum marks for the written subjects 
will be made for illegible handwriting, 

9. Credit will be given for good English including orderly; effective and exact 
expression combined with due economy of words in all subjects of the examination 
and not only in subjects which are specially devoted to English. 

Appendix III 
Fees 

( See Rule 14) 

Candidates seeking admission to the examination must pay the following 
fees;, — 

(a) To the Commission: 

(i) Re. 1/- when asking for application form and connected documents. 

This amount should be paid to the Commission by Money Order, Local 
candidates, however, may pay cash at the counter. The Commission 
will not accept payment made otherwise. 

(ii) Rs. 81 '50 (Rs, 19'62 — -in the case of candidates belonging to Scheduled. 

Castes and Scheduled Tribes) with the completed application form. 

This amount should be paid by means of Treasury Receipt or CROSSED 
Indian Postal Orders payable to Secretary Union Public Service Com- 
mission. The Commission will not accept payment made otherwise. 

(b) To the Medical Board: — 

Rs. 16/- before examination by a Medical Board, if selected for appoint- 
ment. 

This amount should be paid in cash to the Medical Board concerned at the 
time of the Medical examination. 

2. Once an application has been considered by the Commission and the decision 
communicated to the candidate, no claim from the candidate for a refund of the 
fee paid by him to the Commission will ordinarily be entertained nor can this fee 
be held in reserve for any other examination or selection. If, however, a candi- 
date is not admitted to the examination by the Commission, a refund of 
Rs. 75/- (Rs. 18-76 in the case of candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes and 
Scheduled Tribes) will be made to him. 

3. The Commission may at their discretion remit the prescribed fee. where 
they are satisfied that the applicant is a bona fide displaced persons from Pakistani 
or from the unliberated areas of Jammu and Kashmir and is not in a position to 
pay the prescribed fee. The fee of Re. 1/-, however, must be paid even by a 
displaced person when asking the Commission for form and this amount will be 
refundable to him, if on receipt of his application, his claim to be a displaced 
person is accepted by the Commission and his fee is remitted. 


Appendix IV 


Brief particulars regarding the Central Engineering Service, Class I 

1 Persons recruited to the Service through competitive examination shall be 
on probation for a period of at least two years and they will receive pay in the 
time scale of Rs 360—350—380 — 380—30 — 590— E.B.— 30— 770 — 40—850. On com- 
pletion of the. probationary period, if they have passed the prescribed depart- 
mental examinations and are considered fit for permanent appointment, they will 
be confirmed as Assistant Executive Engineers. 

2. The Central Engineering Service. Class I, comprises a number of superior 
posts as follows: — 

I Executive Engineers— Rs. 000-40—1,000—1,000—1,050—1,050—1,100— 

1,100—1,150. 

II. Administrative (Selection) Posts — 


Superintending Engineers — Rs. 1,300 — 60 — 1,600. 

Chief Engineer — ( 1 ) Rs. 2,000 — 125 — 2,250, 

(ii) Rs. 1,800—100—2,000. 

3, Provident Fund ,— Officers entering the Service, will be eligible to join the- 
General Provident Fund and will be governed by the Rules regulating that Fund. 


[No. EWI-15(9)/57-I.l 



^884 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1957/ AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 [Part II 


S.'R.O. 4056. — The following rules for a competitive examination to be held 
by the Union Public Service Commission in July, 1958, for the purpose of filling 
vacancies in the Central Engineering Service Class II are published for general 
information: — 


RULES 

1. For the purpose of these Rules: — 

(a) “Government” means the Government of India. 

(b) “The Commission” means the Union Public Service Commission. 

(c) “The Service” means the Central Engineering Service, Class II, parti- 

culars in respect of which are given in Appendix IV. 

2. A competitive examination for admission to the Service shall be held in 
India at such times and places as may be prescribed in the Notice issued by the 
Commission. Every such Notice will, when possible, announce the number of 
vacancies to be filled on the result of the examination. 

3. If the examination held under this part of these Rules is a combined exami- 
nation for the purpose of making appointments to more than one service or 
Department, the following provisions shall apply: — 


(a) Any person may apply to be admitted as a candidate for appointment 
In all or any of these Services or Departments for which he is eligible. 
If he wishes to compete for appointment in more than one Service 
or Department, he shall state in his application form which Services 
or Departments he wishes to compete for and the order of his prefer- 
ence for them, and in such case only one application form will be 
necessary and one payment of the fees referred to in rule 14 (and 
Appendix III) will be sufficient. 


(b) Government shall assign successful candidates to each Service or 
Department on a consideration of all circumstances including any 
personal preference expressed by the candidate. 

mnv candidates to be admitted to any examination 

less 7 than^OO 1 r the - C . 0mmissl0n . be limited to such number, not being 

ssrzs&s &SSS&TS: s&ssr*** 


6. A candidate must apply to be admitted to the examination before such 
■date, in such manner, and m such form as the Commission may prescribe. ' 

6. A candidate must be either: — 


(a) a citizen of India, or 

(b) a subject of Sikkim, or 

(c) a person of Indian origin who has migrated from Pakistan with the 

intention of permanently settling in India, or 

(d) a subject of Nepal or of a Portuguese or former French possession in 

India. 


Note 1— The appointment of candidates in categories (c) and (d) above will 
be subject to the issue of certificates of eligibility in their favour by the Govern- 
ment of India. The certificate of eligibility in respect of candidates belonging 
1o category (c) will be valid only for a period of one year from the date of his 
appointment beyond which he would be retained in service onlv if he lias 
become a citizen of India. Certificates of eligibility will not, however be 
gorier 0 — ln the C0SC ° f candldates belonging to any one of the following cate- 

(1) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan before the 19th July 

1948, and have ordinarily been residing in India since then. 

(2) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan after the 18th Julv 1948 

but before the. 30th September 1948 and gSt themselves registered 
as citizens within the time allowed. registered 

(3) Wh0 cntered service under the Government of India 
^° ] t J ? commencement of the Constitution, viz., 26th January 
1950 and who have continued in such service since hen. Any such 



Sec. S] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21 , 1957/ AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 2885 


person who re-entered or may re-enter such service with break after 
the 26th January 1960, will, however, require certificate of eligibility 
in the usual way. 

Note 2.— -A candidate in whose case a certificate of eligibility is necessary may 
be admitted by the examination and he may also be provisionally appointed 
subject to the necessary certificate being eventually issued in his favour by 
Government. 


Ti'-(a) No male candidate who has more them one wife living shall be eligible 
for appointment to any of the Services appointments to which are made on the 
results of this competitive examination unless the Government of India after 
being satisfied that there are special grounds for doing so, exempt any male 
candidate from the operation of this rule. 

(b) No female candidate who has married a person having already a wife 
living shall be eligible for appointment to the service unless the Government of 
India after being satisfied that there are special grounds for doing so, exempt 
any female candidate from the operation of this rule. 


8, On the date prescribed by the Commission in their Notice of the examina- 
tion issued under Rule 2, a candidate must have attained the age of 20 and must 
not have attained the age of 25 provided that the upper age limit of 25 will be 
relaxable upto 28 in the case of candidates who are permanently employed in 
the Central Public Works Department or who were continuously in temporary 
service under the Central Public Works Department for at least 3 years or who 
were within the above specified age limits on the date of their employment in 
the Central Public Works Department, such relaxation being limited to two 
examinations only. 


Departmental candidates must obtain previous permission of the Head of the 
Department to appear for the examination. 

Note.— The upper age limits prescribed above will be relaxable: — 

(i) Upto a maximum of five years if a candidate belongs to a Scheduled 

Caste or a Scheduled Tribe. 

(ii) Upto a maximum of three years if a candidate is a bonafide displaced 

It a^hm ir ° m Pakistan or * rom the unliberated areas of Jammu and 


This concession will not, however, be admissible to a candidate who has 

fn r theVlnr»i re p ® w P i evl £ us examinations or in the case of those employed 
in the Central Public Works Department at seven previous examinations. 

(iii) Upto a maximum of eight years if a candidate belongs to a Scheduled 
Caste or a Scheduled Tribe and is also a bonafide displaced person 
from Pakistan or from the unliberated areas of Jammu and Kashmir. 

concession will not, however, be admissible to a candidate who hat; 
already appeared at ten previous examinations or in the case of those employed 
in the Central Public Works Department at twelve previous examinations 

(lv) Upto a maximum of three years if a candidate is a resident of the 
an/Mm Prench Settlements which have now become part of India 
and has been receiving his education through the medium of French. 

<V> D EV nSSTM, 4 ^ " “ ™ did *« *0 *>* Andaman 

SAVE AS PROVIDED ABOVE THE /^LIMITS PRESCRIBED CAN IN NO 

is s„ ch . 5 

10, A candidate must have— 

2 srr ed * 



2886 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGRAHAYANA SO, 1879 [Par'l II 


(c) obtained an engineering degree of one of the universities mentioned 

in Appendix I under the conditions prescribed in that Appendix, 
or 

(d) passed the Honours Diploma examination in Civil, Mechanical or 

Electrical Engineering of the Loughborough College, Leicestershire 
provided the candidate has passed the common preliminary exami- 
nation or has been exempted therefrom. 

Note I. — In exceptional cases the Commission may treat a candidate, who has 
not any of the foregoing qualifications, as a qualified candidate, provided that 
he has passed examinations conducted by other institutions ( the standard of 
which, in the opinion of the Commission justifies his admission to the exami- 
nation. 

Note II. — Candidates who have appeared at an examination the passing of 
which would render them eligible to appear at this examination, but have not 
been informed of the result, may apply for admission to the examination. Candi- 
dates who intend to appear at such a qualifying examination may also apply, 
provided that the qualifying examination is completed before the commencement 
of this examination. Their applications will be accepted provisionally and they 
will be required to furnish proof of having passed the examination as soon as 
possible and in any case not later than two months after the commencement of 
this examination. 

11. No candidate shall be admitted to the examination unless he holds a 
certificate of admission from the Commission. 

The decision of the Commission as to the eligibility or otherwise of a candi- 
date for admission to the competitive examination shall be final. 

12. A candidate found guilty of impersonation or of submitting fabricated 
documents or documents which have been tampered with or of making state- 
ments which are incorrect or false or suppressing material information or of 

'using or attempting to use unfair means in the examination hall or otherwise 
resorting to any other irregular or improper means for obtaining admission to 
the examination may, in addition to rendering himself liable to a criminal prose- 
cution be debarred either permanently or for a specific period — 

(a) by the Commission from admission to any examination or appearance 

at any interview held by the Commission for selection of candidates; 
and 

(b) by the Central Government from employment under the Government, 

13. No recommendations except those required in the application form shall 
be taken into consideration. Any attempt on the part of a candidate to obtain 
support for his candidature by other means may disqualify him for admission. 

14. Candidates must pay such examination fees as Government may prescribe 
( see Appendix III) . No claim for a refund of any of these will ordinarily be 
entertained, nor can they bo held in reserve for any other examination or 
selection, 

15. Examination under these Rules shall be conducted by the Commission in 
the manner prescribed in Appendix II. 

16. (a) After every examination, the Commission shall make a list of Candi- 
dates in order of their merit as disclosed by the aggregate marks finally awarded 
to each candidate, and in that order, so many candidates upto the number of 
vacancies announced under Rule 2 above, as are found by the Commission to 
be qualified by the examination, and arc considered by Government to be suit- 
able in all other respects, shall be appointed. 

(b) Appointments to vacancies to be filled by members of a particular com- 
munity or communities shall be made by Government or the appointing authority 
as the case may be, in the order of merit of the candidates belonging to the 
particular community or communities, provided they have qualified in the exami- 
nation and are m all respects suitable for employment in the service. 

(c) Success in the examination confers no right to appointment, unless 
Government arc satisfied, after such enquiry as may be considered necessary 
that the candidate is suitable in all respects for appointment to the Public Service. 



Sec. S] +HE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 19JJ7/AGRAHAYANA 30. 1879 2887 


17. A candidate must be in good mental and bodily health and free from any 
physical defect likely to interfere with the efficient performance of the duties of 
a member of the Service, and a candidate who is found after examination by 
a Medical Board #iot to satisfy these requirements will not be appointed. Only 
those candidates who are likely to be considered for appointment will be 
physically examined. 

In order to prevent disappointment candidates are advised to have them- 
selves examined by a Government medical officer of the standing of a Civil 
Surgeon, before applying for admission to the examination. Particulars of the 
nature of the medical test to which candidates will be submitted before appoint- 
ment and of the standards required can be had from the Commission. 

18. (a) The selected candidates shall be appointed as Assistant Engineers on 
probation for two years. Their pay shall commence from the date of appointment 
under these rules and their service for increments, leave and pension shall count 
from the ' same date. In the event of more than one candidate being appointed, 
their seniority inter se shall be determined according to their position in the 
competitive examination. 

(b) On the completion of the period of probation the Assistant Engineers 
shall, if considered fit for permanent appointment, be confirmed in their appoint- 
ments. 

(c) The Government may extend the period of two years specified in sub-rule 
(a) above. 

(d) If on the expiration of the period of probation referred to in sub-rule 
(a) above or of any extension thereof under sub-rule (c) above as the case may 
be, the Government are of opinion that an Assistant Engineer is not fit for per- 
manent employment or if at any time during such period of probation or exten- 
sion they are satisfied that an Assistant Engineer will not be fit for permanent 
appointment on the expiration of such period or extension, they may discharge 
the Assistant Engineer or pass such order as they think fit. 

... K n ,° action is taken by Government under sub-rule (b), (c) or (d) of 
this rule, the period after the prescribed period of probation shall be treated 
as an engagement from month to month terminable on either side on the expira- 
tion of one calendar month’s notice in writing. 

19. Probationers will also be required to pass a test in Hindi before confir- 
mation. 


Appendix I 

List of University degrees which will be recognised for admission to the 
examination [vide rule 10(c).] 

Aberdeen. — B.Sc. Engineering (Honours or Ordinary Degree) . 

Cambridge .— Ordinary decree B.A. in Engineering provided the graduate has 
passed m the principal subjects, Engineering I, Engineering II and Engineering 

Durham. — B.Sc. in Marine Engineering. 

Glasgow. — B.Sc. in Naval Architecture (Honours or Ordinary Degree). 

_ Note.— T he above degrees will be accepted only if taken after three years’ 
study and the passing of the regular examinations in the several Universities 

bnMrfff n iD^ 10nS r. aS T thr j e years ’ study V/iU not > however, apply to Indians who 
having taken an Indian degree, which exempts them from part of the Universitv 
course, shall have taken one of the above degrees in less than three vears in 
accordance with the regulations of the University concerned. y 


Appendix II 

Standard and Syllabus of the examination (vide Rule 15) 

(a) Compulsory:— Sub;,ects Marks 


(1) English (including Essay and precis writing) 

(2) General Knowledge 

< ' 3) A Bl Ued Mechanics (including Strength of Materials and 
lheory of Structres) 

(4) Construction; Paper I 

(1) Building Materials and Building Construction 
(ii) Design of Structures 
Paper II 


100 

100 

200 

I 

{►200 


IOO j 



2888 the gazette of india: December 21, 1957 /agrahayana so, 1879 [Part n 


Subjects 


Marks 


Roads, Railways 

(General principles governing the design of Railways, Roads, 
Harbours and other works) 

(5) Surveying 

(6) Sanitary Engineering and Water Supply 

(7) Personality Test 


Total 


(b) Optional:— Any two of the following subjects: — 

(1) Prime Movers 

(2) Hydraulics and Hydraulic Machines 

(3) Electrical Engineering 

(4) Mechanical Engineering 

Note 1. — All papers must be answered in English. 

Note 2.— Candidates must write the papers in their own hand. In no circum- 
stances will they be allowed the help of an amanuensis (scribe) to write down 
answers for them. 

2. A candidate must produce a certificate that he has undergone satisfactory 
training in Surveying . including practical surveying in a College or institution 
recognised by the Commission for the purpose of admission to the competitive 
examination for the Service, The training must be equivalent to that given in 
the full course for a degree or diploma in Civil Engineering. The certificate must 
be signed by the Principal or the Head of the Department of Surveying in the 
College or Institution. 

For this purpose the Commission will ordinarily accept a certificate from any 
college or institution mentioned in Rule 10 of the foregoing rules or from any 
college which is affiliated to any University mentioned in the same Rule. The 
Commission, however, reserve to themselves the power not to accept any certi- 
ficate if they are satisfied that the practical training referred to therein falls 
short of the requirements of the Service, and their decision in the matter will 
be final. 

3. The standard and syllabus of the examination will be such as the Commis- 
sion shall prescribe. 

4. The Commission have discretion to fix qualifying marks in any or all the 
subjects at the examination. 

5. The Commission will summon at their discretion only those candidates 
Whom they consider suitable for interview for the Personality Test. 

0. Special attention will be paid in the Personality Test to assessing the candi- 
dates' capacity for leadership, initiative and intellectual curiosity, tact and other 
social qualities, mental and physical energy, powers of practical application and 
Integrity of character. 

7. Prom the marks assigned to candidates in each subject such deduction will 
be made as the Commission may consider necessary in order to secure that no 
credit is allowed for merely superficial knowledge. 

8. Deductions up to 5 per cent, of the maximum marks for the written subjects 
will be made for illegible handwriting. 

9. Credit will be given for good English including orderly, effective and exact 
expression combined with due economy of words in all subjects of the exami- 
nation and not only in subjects which are specially devoted to English. 


100 

100 

300 

1,100 


100 

100 

100 

100 



szc. 3] The gazette of India: December 21, 1957/agrahavana 30, 1879 3889 


Appendix m 
Fees 

(See Rule 4) 

Candidates seeking admission to the examination must pay the following 
fees: — 

(a) To the Commission: 

(i) Re. 1/- when asking for application form and connected documents. 

This amount' should be paid to the Commission by Money Order. Local 

candidates, however, may pay cash at the counter. The Commission 
will not accept payment made otherwise. 

(ii) Rs. 81-50 (Rs. 19- 62 in the case of candidates belonging to Scheduled 

Castes and Scheduled Tribes) with the completed application form. 

This amount should be paid by means of Treasury Receipt or CROSSED 
Indian Postal Orders payable to Secretary, Union Public Service 
Commission. The Commission will not accept payment made other- 
wise. 

(b) To the Medical Board: 

Rs. 16/- before examination by a Medical Board, if selected for appoint- 
ment. 

This amount should be paid in cash to the Medical Board concerned at 
the time of the Medical examination. 

\ 

2. Once an application has been considered by the Commission and the deci- 
sion communicated to the candidate, no claim from the candidate for a refund 
of the fee paid by him to the Commission will ordinarily be entertained nor can 
this fee be held in reserve for any other examination or selection. If, however, 
a candidate is not admitted to the examination by the Commission, a refund 
of Rs. 75/- (Rs. 18-75 in the case of candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes and 
Scheduled Tribes) will be made to him. 

3. The Commission may at their discretion remit the prescribed fee where 
they are satisfied that the applicant is a bona fide displaced person from Pakistan 
or from the unliberated areas of Jammu and Kashmir and is not in a position 
to pay the prescribed fee. The fee of ■Re. 1/- however, must be paid even by 
a displaced person when asking the Commission for form and this amount will 
be refundable to him, if on receipt of his application, his claim to be a displaced 
person is accepted by the Commission and his fee is remitted. 


Appendix IV 


Brief particulars regarding the Central Engineering Service, Class II 

1. Persons recruited to the Service through the competitive examination shall 
be on probation for a period of at least two years and they will receive pay in 
the time scale of Rs. 275— 25— 500— E.B.— 30— 650— E.B.— 30— 800. On completion 
of the probationary period, if they have passed the prescribed departmental exami- 
nations and are considered fit for permanent appointment, they will be confirmed 
as Assistant Engineers. 

2. The Central Engineering Service, Class II, consists of a number of posts of 
Assistant Engineers (Sub-Divisional Officers) but persons recruited to the Service 
7 1 , 1 ii be i. eligibl 'M or P romotion to the Central Engineering Service, Class I, if they 
fulfil the conditions laid down in the recruitment rules for that service. The 
Central Engineering Service, Class I, comprises a number of superior posts as 
follows: — 


I. Executive^ Engineers— Rs, 600—40—1,000—1,000—1,050—1,050—1,100—1,100 


II. Administrative (Selection) Posts — 

Superintending Engineers— Rs, 1,300—60—1,600. 
Chief Engineer— (i) Rs. 2,000—125—2,250. 


(ii) Rs. 1,800—100—2,000. 

fund.— Officers entering the Central Engineering Service, Class II, 
will be eligible to join the General Provident Fund and will be governed by the 
Rules regulating that Fund. 6 y 


[No. EWI-15(9)/57-II.] 



2890 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21 , 19S7/AGRAHAYANA SO, 1879 [Part n 


S.R.O. 4057. — The following rules for a competitive examination to be held 
by the Union Public Service Commission in July, 1958 for the purpose of tilling 
vacancies in the Central Electrical Engineering Service, Class I are published for 
general information. 


RULES 

1. For the purpose of these Rules: — 

(a) “Government” means the Government of India. 

(b) “The Commission” means the Union Public Service Commission. 

(c) “The Service” means the Central Electrical Engineering Service, Class 

I particulars in respect of which are given in Appendix IV. 

2. A competitive examination for admission to the Service shall be held in 
India at such times and places as may be prescribed in the Notice issued by the 
Commission. Every such notice will, when possible, announce the number of 
vacancies to be filled on the result of the examination. 

3. If the examination held under this part of these Rules is a combined 
examination for the purpose of making appointments to more than one Service or 
Department, the following provisions shall apply:- — 

(a) Any person may apply to be admitted as a candidate for appointment 

in all or any of these Services Or Departments for which he is 
eligible. If he wishes to compete for appointment in more than 
one Service or Department, he shall state in his application form 
which Services or Departments he wishes to compete for and the 
order of his preference for them, and in such case only one applica- 
tion form will be necessary and one payment of the fees referred to 
in rule 14 (and Appendix III) will be sufficient. 

(b) Government shall assign successful candidates to each Service or 

Department on a consideration of all circumstances including any 
personal preference expressed by the candidate. 

4. The maximum number of candidates to be admitted to any examination 
may at the discretion of the Commission, be limited to such number, not being 
less than 200, as the Commission may decide. If a limit is imposed, and the 
number of candidates exceeds that limit, the Commission shall select from the 
applicants those who shall be admitted to the examination, and in doing so 
shall havp regard to the suitability of the applicants. 

5. A candidate must apply to be admitted to the examination before such date, 
in such manner, and in such form as the Commission may prescribe, 

C. A candidate must be either— 

(a) a citizen of India, or 

(b) a subject of Sikkim, or 

(c) a person of Indian origin who has migrated from Pakistan with the 

intention of permanently settling in India, or 

(d) a subject of Nepal or of a Portuguese or former French possession In 

India. 

Note 1. — The appointment of candidates In categories (c) and (d) above will 
be subject to the issue of certificates of eligibility in their favour by the Govern- 
ment of India. The certificate of eligibility in respect of candidates belonging 
to category (c) will be valid only for a period of one year from the date of his 
appointment beyond which he would be retained in service only if he has become 
a citizen of India. Certificates of eligibility will not, however, be necessary in 
the case of candidates belonging to any one of the following categories: — 

(1) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan before the 19th July, 

1948, and have ordinarily been residing in India since then. 

(2) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan after the 18th July 1948, 

but before the 30th September 1948 and got themselves registered 
as citizens within the time allowed, 

(3) Non-citizens who entered service under the Government of India 

before the commencement of the Constitution, viz,, 26th January, 
1 950 and who have continued In such service sine® then. Any such 
person who re-entered or may re-enter such service with break after 
the 26th January, 1950, will, however, require cetiflcate of eligibility 
In the usual way. 



Sec. S] +HE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21. 1957/AGRAHAYANA SO. 1879 2891 


Note 2. A candidate in whose case a certificate of eligibility is necessary 

may be admitted to the examination and he may also be provisionally appointed 
subject to the necessary certificate being eventually issued in his favour by 
Government. 

7. (a) No male candidate who has more than one wife living shall be eligible 
for appointment to any of the Services appointments to which are made on the 
results of this competitive examination unless the Government of India after 
being satisfied that there are special grounds for doing so, exempt any male 
candidate from the operation of this rule, 

(b) No female candidate who has, married a person having already a wife 
living shall be eligible for appointment to the service unless the Government of 
India after being satisfied that there are special grounds for doing so, exempt 
any female candidate from the operation of this rule. 

8. On the date prescribed by the Commission in their Notice of the examination 
issued under Rule 2, a candidate must have attained the age of 20 and must not 
have attained the age of 25 provided the upper age limit of 25 will b e r el ax- 
able upto 30 in the case of candidates who are permanently employed In the 
Central Public Works Department or who were continuously in temporary service 
under the Central Public Works Department for at least 3 years or who were 
within the above specified age limits on the date of their employment in the 
Central Public Works Department, such relaxation being limited to three exami- 
nations only. 

Departmental candidates must obtain previous permission of the Head of the 
Department to appear for the examination. 

Note. — The upper age-limits prescribed above will be relaxable:- — 

(i) Upto a maximum of five years if a candidate belongs to a Scheduled 

Caste or a Scheduled Tribe. 

(ii) Upto a maximum of three years if a candidate is a bona fide displaced 

person from Pakistan or from the unliberated areas of Jammu and 
Kashmir. 

This concession will not, however, he admissible to a candidate who has 
already appeared at five previous examinations or in the case of those employed 
in the Central Public Works Department at eight previous examinations. 

(iii) Upto a maximum of eight years if a candidate belongs to a Scheduled 

Caste or a Scheduled Tribe and is also a bona fide displaced person 
from Pakistan or from the unliberated areas of Jammu and Kashmir. 

This concession will not, however, be admissible to a candidate who has already 
appeared at ten previous examinations or in the case of those employed in the 
Central Public Works Department at thirteen previous examinations. 

(iv) Upto a maximum of three years if a candidate is a resident of the 

former French Settlements which have now become part of India and 
has been receiving his education through the medium of French. 

(v) Upto a maximum of 4 years if a candidate belongs to the Andaman 

and Nlcober Islands. 

SAVE AS PROVIDED ABOVE THE AGE LIMITS PRESCRIBED CAN IN NO 

CASE BE RELAXED 

9. A candidate must satisfy the Commission that his character is such as to 
make him suitable for appointment to the Service/Department, 

10. A candidate must have— 

(a) obtained a degree in Engineering from a university incorporated by 
' an Act of the Central or of a State Legislature in India; or 

(b) passed Sections A and B of the Associate Membership Examination 

of the Institution of Engineers (India) or have any other educational 
qualifications excepting a B.E. degree (Tele-communication) award- 
ed by Indian universities recognised by that institution as exempt- 
ing from passing these sections; or 

(c) obtained an engineering degree of one of the universities mentioned 

in Appendix I under the conditions prescribed in that Appendix; or 



2892 THE GA7ETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 [Part II 

(d) passed the Honours Diploma examination in Civil, Mechanical or 
Electrical engineering of the Loughborough College, Leicestershire, 
provided the candidate has passed the common preliminary exami- 
nation or has been exempted therefrom, 

Note I, — In exceptional cases the Commission may treat a candidate, who has 
not any of the foregoing qualifications, as a qualified candidate provided that he 
has passed examinations conducted by other institutions, the standard of which, 
In the opinion of the Commission justifies his admission to the examination. 

Note II. — Candidates who have appeared at an examination the passing of 
which would render them eligible to appear at this examination, but have not 
been Informed of the result, may apply for admission to the examination. Candl- 
uates who intend to appear at such a qualifying examination may also apply, 
provided that the qualifying examination is completed before the commencement 
of this examination. Their applications will be accepted provisionally and they 
will be required to furnish proof of having passed the examination as soon as 
possible and in any case not later than two months after the commencement of 
tnls examination. 

11. No candidate shall be admitted to thp examination unless he holds a certi- 
ficate of admission from the Commission. 

The decision of the Commission as to the eligibility or otherwise of a candi- 
date for admission to the competitive examination shall be final. 

12. A candidate found guilty of impersonation dr of submitting febricated 
documents or documents which have been tampered nvith or of making state- 
ments which are incorrect or false or suppressing material information or of using 
or attempting to use unfair means in the examination hall or otherwise resorting 
to any other irregular or improper means for obtaining admission to the examina- 
tion will in addition to rendering himself liable ,to a criminal prosecution be 
debarred either permanently or for a specified ‘period — 

(a) by the Commission from admission to any examination or appearance 

at any interview held by * the Commission for selection candidates, 
and 

(b) by the Central Government from employm'erjtLunder the Government. 

13. No recommendations except those required In the ' application form shall 
be taken Into consideration. Any attempt on the part of a candidate to obtain 
support for his candidature by other means may disqualify him for admission. 

14. Candidates must pay such examination fees as 'Government may prescribe 
(see Appendix III). No claim for a refund of any bf ‘these fees will ordinarily 
be entertained, nor can they be held in "reserve for any other examination or 
selection. 

15. Examination under thesq Rules shall be .torlduated fby the Comihiision in 
the manner prescribed in Appepdix II', t 

10. (a) After every examination, the Commission shall 'make a list of candi- 
dates in order of their merit gs disclosed Igjf tl^p teggfregste'lmarks finally awarded 
to each candidate, and in that order, so many odptiflateauipto the, number of 
vacancies announced under Rule 2 above, as are found by- the Commission to be 
qualified by the examination, • and are ■ considered flDy\(J^ernnient to be ’suitable 
in all other respects, shall be appointed^ 

(b) Appointments to vacancies, .to lie fUl^ffclt mentis of a particular com- 
munity or communities shall -be made- by Goyefnment -or Jhe appointing authority 
as the case may be, in the order of merit of the candidates belonging to the parti- 
tion and are in all respects suitable for employment fiji JKfe service. 

fc) Success in the examination confers no right' to* appointment, unless Govern- 
ment are satisfied, after such enquiry as nJdy tfe considered necessary that the 
cular community or communities, provided tla^y. have qualified in the examlna- 
candidate is suitable in all iespects for apOTifftamJv toVtn^’public Service. ’ 

17. A candidate must be in good ’m£ht®iTand bodily health and free from 
any physical defect likely to interfere with fllte efficient performance 6 f the duties 
of a member of the Service, and "a candiildfc ^rifco'fiSWounlJ , after Examination by 
a Medical Board not to satisfy these requh-emoijs mil not be appointed. . Only 
those candidates who 1 are likely to . hey ^qapliopred . fftg appointmeAt will be 
physically examined. 



Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 2893 


In order to prevent disappointment candidates are advised to have themselves 
examined by a Government medical officer of the standing of a Civil Surgeon, 
before applying for admission to the examination. Particular's of the nature of 
the medical test to which candidates will be submitted before appointment and 
of the standards required can be had from the Commission. 

18. (a) The selected candidates shall be appointed as Assistant Electrical 
Engineers on probation for two years. Their pay shall commence from the date 
of appointment under these rules and their service for increments, leave and 
pension shall count from the same date. In the event of more than one candi- 
date being appointed, their seniority inter se shall be determined according to 
their position in the competitive examination. 

f b) On the completion of the period of probation, the Assistant Electrical 
Engineers shall, if considered lit for permanent appointment, be confirmed in their 
appointments. 

(c) The Government may extend the period of two years specified in sub-rule 
(a) above. 

id) If on the expiration of the period of probation referred to in sub-rule (a) 

above or of any extension thereof under sub-rule (c) above as the case may be, 

the Government are of opinion that an Assistant Electrical Engineer is not fit 
for permanent employment, or if at any time during such period of probation 
or extension they are satisfied that an Assistant Electrical Engineer will not be 
fit. for permanent appointment on the expiration of such period or extension, 
they may discharge the Assistant Electrical Engineer or pass such order as they 
think fit. 

(e) If no action is taken by Government under sub-rule (b) or (c) or (d) of 

this rule, the period after the prescribed period of probation shall be treated as 

an engagement from month to month terminable on either side on the expira- 
tion of one calendar month’s notice in writing, 

19. Probationers will also be required to pass a test in Hindi before confir- 
mation'. 


Appendix I 

\ 

List of University degrees which will he recognised for admission to the 
examination [vide rule 10(c)] 

Aberdeen. — B.Sc. Engineering (Honours or Ordinary Degree), 

Cambridge . — Ordinary degree B.A. in Engineering provided the graduate has 
passed In the principal subjects, Engineering I, Engineering II and Engineering 
III. 

Durham, — B.Sc. In Marine Engineering. 

Glasgow, — B.Sc, in Naval Architecture (Honours or Ordinary Degree). 

Note.— The above degrees will be accepted only if taken after three years’ 
study and the passing of the regular examinations in the several Universities. 
The conditions as to throe years study will not, however, apply to Indians who. 
having taken an Indian degree, which exempts them from part of 'the University 
course, shall have taken one of the above degrees in less than three years In 
accordance with the regulations of the University concerned, 


Appendix II 

Standard and Syllabus of the examination (vide Rule 15) 
Subject 

(a) Compulsory: — 

1. English (including Essay and Precis writing) 

2. General Knowledge . .. ... ... 

3. Mechanical Engineering .. ... -1 r . 

4. Electrical Engineering. .. 

5. Applied Mechanics , (including strength of materials and. 

Theory of Structures) 

•6. Personality Test 


Marks 


100 

100 

200 

200 

200 

300 



2894 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGKAHAYANA 80, 1879 [Part II 


lb) Optional. 

( Not more than two of the following subjects )— 

1, Physics (including Electricity and Magnetism) ... ... 100 

2. Electrical Communication Engineering ... ... ... 100 

0. Prime Movers ... ... ... ... 100 

4. Applied Mathematics ... . , , ... ■ ■ ■ 100 

5. Hydraulics and Hydraulic Machines ... ... ... 100 

Note 1. — All papers must be answered in English. 

Note 2. — Candidates must write the papers in their own hand. In no circum- 
staxice will they be allowed the help of an amanuensis (scribe) to write down 
answers for them, 

2. The standard and syllabus of the examination will be such as the Commis- 
sion shall prescribe. 

3. The Commission have discretion to fix qualifying marks in any or all the 
subjects at the examination. 

4. The Commission Will summon at their discretion only those candidates whom 
they consider suitable for interview for the Personality Test. 

5. Special attention will be paid in the Personality Test to assessing the candi- 
dates capacity for leadership, initiative and intellectual curiosity, tact and other 
social qualities, mental and physical, energy, powers of practical application and 
integrity of character. 

6 Prom the marks assigned to candidates in each subject such deduction will 
be made as the Commission may consider necessary in order to secure that no 
credit is allowed for merely superficial knowledge. 

7. Deductions up to 5 per cent, of the maximum marks for the written subjects 
will be made for illegible handwriting. 

8. Credit will be given for good English including orderly, effective and exact 
expression combined with due economy of words in all subjects of the examination 
and not only in subjects which are specially devoted to English. 


Appendix III 
Fees 

C See Rule 14) 

Candidates seeking admission to the examination must pay the following 
fees : — 

(a) To the Commission: 

(i) Re. 1 when asking for application form and connected documents. 

This amount should be paid to the Commission by Money Order. Local 
candidates, however, may pay cash at the counter. The Commission 
will not accept payment made otherwise. 

(il) Rs. 81.50 (Rs, 19.62 in the case of candidates belonging to Scheduled 
Castes and Scheduled Tribes) with the completed application form. 

This amount should be paid by means of Treasury Receipt or CROSSED 
Indian Postal Orders payable to Secretary, Union Public Service 
Commission. The Commission will not accept payment made other- 
wise. 

(b) To the Medical Board: 

Rs. 18 before examination by a Medical Board, if selected for appointment. 

This amount should be paid in cash to the Medical Board concerned at the 
time of tho Medical examination. 

2' Once an application has been considered by the Commission and the decision 
communicated to the candidate, no claim from the candidate for a refund of the 
fee paid by him to the Commission will ordinarily be entertained nor can this 
fee be held In reserve for any other examination or selection. If, however, a 
candidate is not admitted to the examination by the Commission, a Tefund of 
Rs. 75 (Rs, 18’75 in the case of candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes and 
Scheduled Tribes) will be made to him. 



Sec. 3] ThE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, I957/AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 2895 


3. The Commission may at their discretion remit the prescribed fee where they 
are satisfied that the applicant is a bona fide displaced person from Pakistan on. 
from the unliberated areas of Jammu and Kashmir and is not in a position to pay 
the prescribed fee. The fee of Re. 1 however, must be paid even by a displaced 
person when asking the Commission for form and this amount will be refundable 
to him, if on receipt of his application his claim to be a displaced person is accept- 
ed by the Commission and his fee is remitted. 


Appendix IV 

Brief particulars regarding the Central Electrical Engineering Service, Class I 

1. Persons recruited to the Service through competitive Examination shall be 
on probation for a period of at least two years and they will receive pay in the 
time scale of Rs. 350—350—380—380 — 30 — 500— E.B.— 30 — 770 — 40—850. On com- 
pletion of the probationary period, if they have passed the prescribed depart- 
mental examinations and are considered fit for permanent appointment they will 
be confirmed as Assistant Electrical Engineers. 

2. The Central Electrical Engineering Service Class I, comprises a number of 
euperior posts as follows: — 

I. Electrical Engineer— Rs. GOO— 40— 1,000— 1,000— 1,060— 1,050— 1,100— 1,100 

—1,150. , | 

II. Administrative (Selection) Posts — 

Superintending Engineers — Rs, 1,300- — 60 — 1,600. 

3. Provident Fund. — Officers entering the Central Electrical Engineering Service, 
Class I, will be eligible to join the General Provident Fund and will be governed' 
by the Rules regulating that Ekind, 

[No. EW1-15(9) / 57-III.] 

S.R.O. 4058, — The following rules for a competitive examination to be held 
by the Union Public Service Commission in July 1958 for the purpose of filling 
vacancies in the Central Electrical Engineering Service, Class II are published for 
general information. 

RULES 

1. For the purpose of these Rules — 

(a) “Government” means the Government of India. 

(b) “The Commission” means the Union Public Service Commission. 

(c) “The Service” means the Central Electrical Engineering Service, Class 

II, particulars in respect of which are given in Appendix IV. 

2. A competitive examination for admission to the Service shall be held in 
India at such times and places as may be prescribed in the Notice issued by the- 
Commission. Every such Notice will, when possible announce the number of 
vacancies to he filled on the result of the examination. 

3. If the examination held under this part of these Rules is a combined exami- 
nation for the purpose of making appointments to more than one Service or 
Department, the following provisions shall apply: — 

(a) Any person may apply to be admitted as a candidate for appointment 

in all or any of these Services or Departments for which he Is 

eligible. If he wishes to compete for appointment hi more than one 

Service or Department, he shall state in his application form which 
Services or Departments he wishes to compete for and the order of 
his preference for them, and in such case only one application form 
will be necessary and on payment of the fees referred to In rule 
14 (and Appendix III) will be sufficient. 

(b) Government shall assign successful candidates to each Service or 

Department on a consideration of all circumstances including any 
personal preference expressed by the candidate. 

4. The maximum number of candidates to be admitted to any examination, 
may at the discretion of the Commission be limited to such number, not being 
less than 200, as the Commission may decide. If a limit is imposed and thp 
number of candidates exceeds that limit, the Commission shall select from the 
applicants those who shall be admitted to the examination, and in doing so shaR 
nave regard to the suitability of the applicants. 



2896 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, I957/AGRAHAYANA SO, 1879 [Part II 


5. A candidate must apply to be admitted to the examination before such 
date, in such manner, and in such form as the Commission may prescribe. 

6. A candidate must be either 

(a) a citizen of India, or 

(b) a subject of Sikkim, or 

(c) a person of Indian origin who has migrated from Pakistan with .the 

intention of permanently settling in India, or 

(d) a subject of Nepal or of a Portuguese or former French possession in 

India- 

Note 1. — The appointment of candidates in categories (c) and (d) above 
will be subject to the issue of certificates of eligibility in their favour by the 
Government of India, The certificate of eligibility in respect of candidates 
belonging to category (c) will be valid only for* a period of one year from the 
date of his appointment beyond which he would be retained in service only if 
he has become a citizen of India. Certificates of eligibility will not, however, 
be necessary in the case of candidates belonging to any one of the following 
-categories:— 

(1) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan before the 19th July 

1948 and have ordinarily been residing in India since then. 

(2) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan after the 18th July 

1948, but before the 30th September 1948 and got themselves regis- 
tered as citizens within the time allowed- 

(3) Non-citizens who entered services under the Government of India 

before the commencement of the Constitution, viz. 26th January, 
1950 and who have continued in such service since then. Any 
such person who re-entered or may re-enter such service with 
break after the 26th January 1950, will, however, require certificate 
of eligibility In the usual way. 

Note 2. — A candidate in whose case a certificate of eligibility is necessary 
may be admitted to the examination and he may also be provisionally appointed 
subject to the necessary certificate being eventually issued in his favour by 
Government. 

7. (a) No male candidate who has more than one wife living shall be eligible 
for appointment to any of the Services appointments to which are made on the 
results of this competitive examination unless the Government of India after 
being satisfied that there are special grounds for doing so, exempt any male 
candidate from the operation of this rule- 

(b) No female candidate who has married a person having already a wife 
living shall he eligible for appointment to the service unless the Government of 
India after being satisfied that there are special grounds for doing so, exempt 
any female candidate from the operation of this rule. 

8. On the date described by the Commission in their Notice of the examina- 
tion issued under Rule 2, a candidate must have attained the age of 20 apd must 
not have attained the age of 25 provided that the upper age limit of 25 will be 
relax able upto 30 in the case of candidates who are permanently employed in the 
Central Public Works Department or who were continuously in temporary 
service under the Central Public Works Department for at least 3 years or who 
were within the above specified age limits on the date of their employment in 
the Central Public Works Department, such relaxation being limited to three 
-examinations only. 

Departmental candidates must obtain previous permission of the Head of the 
Department to appear for the examination. 

Note. — The upper age-limits prescribed above will be relaxable: — 

(I) Upto a maximum of five years If a candidate belongs to a Scheduled 
Caste or Scheduled Tribe. 

(ii) Upto a maximum of three years if a candidate is a bona fide displaced 
person from Pakistan or from the unliberated areas of Jammu and 
Kashmir. 



Sec. 8 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, I957/AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 2897 


This concession will not. however, be admissible to a candidate who has al- 
ready appeared at five previous examinations or m the case of those employed in 
the Cerural Public Works Department at eight previous examinations. 

(ill) Upto a maximum of eight years If a candidate belongs to a Scheduled 
Caste or a Scheduled Tribe and is also a bona fide displaced person 
from Pakistan or from the unllberated areas of Jammu and Kashmir. 

This concession will not, however, be admissible to a candidate who has already 
appeared at ten previous examinations or in the case of those employed in the 
Central Public Works Department at thirteen previous examinations. 

(iv) Upto a maximum of three years if a candidate is a resident of the 

former French Settlements which have now become part of India 
and has been receiving his education through the medium of French. 

(v) Upto a maximum of 4 years if a candidate belongs to the Andaman 

and Nicobar Islands. 

SAVE AS PROVIDED ABOVE THE AGE LIMITS PRESCRIBED CAN IN NO 

CASE BE RELAXED 

9. A candidate must satisfy the Commission that his character is such as to 
make him suitable for appointment to the Service/Department. 

10. A candidate must have — 

(a) obtained a degree in Engineering from a university incorporated by 

an Act of the Central or of a State Legislature in India; or 

(b) passed Sections A and B of the Associate Membership Examination of 

the Institution of Engineers (India) or have any other educational 
qualifications excepting a B.E. degree (Tele-communication) award- 
ed by Indian Universities, recognised by that institution as exempt- 
ing from passing those sections; or 

(c) obtained an engineering degree of one of the universities mentioned 

in Appendix I under the conditions prescribed in that Appendix; or 

(d) passed the Honours Diploma examination in Civil, Mechanical or 

Electrical Engineering of the Loughborough College, Leicestershire, 
provided the candidate has passed the common preliminary 
examination or has been exempted therefrom. 

Note I. — In exceptional cases the Commission may treat a candidate, who has 
not any of the foregoing qualifications, as a qualified candidate provided that he 
has passed examinations conducted by other institutions, the standard of which, 
in the opinion of the Commission justifies his admission to the examination. 

Note JIl — Candidates who have appeared at an examination the passing of 
whidh oywld render them eligible to appear at this examination, but have not 
been informed of the result, may apply for admission to the examination. 
Candidates who intend to appear at such a qualifying examination may also 
apply, provided that the qualifying examination is completed before the com- 
mencement of this examination. Their applications will be accepted provisionally 
and they will be required to furnish proof of having passed the examination 
as soon as possible and in any case not later than two months after the com- 
mencement of this examination. 

11. No candidate shall be admitted to the examination unless he holds a certi- 
ficate of admission from the Commission. 

The decision of the Commission as to the eligibility or otherwise of a candi- 
date for admission to the competitive examination shall be final. 

12 J A Tab diddte found guilty of Impersonation or of submitting fabricated 
docuVndnts or dbcutnents which have been tampered with or of making statements 
which ftr4 incorrect or false or suppressing material information or of using or 
attempting to use unfair means in the examination hall or otherwise resorting 
to any o$ier irregular or improper means for obtaining admission to the exami- 
nation, max jn addition to rendering himself liable to a criminal prosecution be 
debarred ^Rher permanently or fdr a specified period — 

(a) by the Commission from admission to any examination or appearance 

at any interview held by the Commission for selection of candidates; 
and 

(b) by the Central Government from employment under the Government. 



2898 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 [Part II 


13. No recommendations except those required in the application form shall 
be taken mto consideration. Any attempt on the part of a candidate to obtain 
support for his candidature by other means may disqualify him for admission. 

14. Candidates must pay such examination fees as Government may prescribe 
(see Appendix III). No claim for a refund of any of these fees will ordinarily 
be entertained, nor can they be held in reserve for any other examination or 
selection. 

15. Examination under these Rules shall be conducted by the Commission in 
the manner prescribed in Appendix II. 

16. (a) After every examination, the Commission shall make a list of candidates 
in order of their merit as disclosed by the aggregate marks Anally awarded to 
each candidate, and in that Older, sq many candidates upto the number of vacan- 
cies announced under Rule 2 above, as are found by the Commission to be 
qualified by the examination, and are considered by Government to be suitable 
in all other respects, shall be appointed. 

(b) Appointments to vacancies to be filled by members of a particular com- 
munity or communities shall be made by Government or the appointing authority 
as the case may be, in the order of merit of the candidates belonging to the 
particular community or communities, provided they have qualified in the exami- 
nation and are In all respects suitable for employment in the service. 

(c) Success in the examination confers no right to appointment unless 
Government are satisfied, after such enquiry as may be considered necessary that 
the candidate is suitable in all respects for appointment to the public Service. 

17. A candidate must be in good mental and bodily health and free from any 
physical defect likely to interfere with the efficient performance of the duties of 
a member of the Service, and a candidate who is found after examination by a 
Medical Board not to satisfy these requirements will not be appointed. Only 
those candidates who are likely to be considered for appointment will be physical- 
ly examined. 

In order to prevent disappointment candidates are advised to have themselves 
examined by a Government medical officer of the standing of a Civil Surgeon, 
before applying for admission to the examination. Particulars of the nature of 
the medical test to which candidates will be submitted before appointment and 
of the standards required can be had from the Commission. 

18. (a) The selected candidates shall be appointed as Assistant Electrical 
Engineers on probation for two years, Their pay shall commence from the date of 
appointment under these rules and their service for increments, leave and pen- 
sion shall count from the same date. In the event of more than one candidate 
being appointed their seniority inter se shall be determined according to their 
position in the competitive examination. 

(b) On the completion of the period of probation, the Assistant Electrical 
Engineers shall, if considered fit for permanent appointment, be confirmed in 
their appointments. 

(c) The Government may extend the period of two years specified in sub-rule 
(a) above. 

(d) If on the expiration of the period of probation referred to in sub-rule (a) 
above or of any extension thereof under sub-rule (c) above as the case may be 
the Government are of opinion that an Assistant Electrical Engineer is not fit 
for permanent employment or if at any time during such period of probation or 
extension they are satisfied that an Assistant Electrical Engineer will not be fit 
for permanent appointment on the expiration of such period or extension, they 
may discharge the Assistant Electrical Enginer or pass such order as they think 
fit. 


(e) If no action is taken by Government under sub-rule (b) or (c) or (d) of 
this rule, the period after the prescribed period of probation shall be treated as 
an engagement from month to month terminable on either side on the expiration 
of one calendar month’s notice In writing. 

10. Probationers will also be required to pass a test in Hindi before confir- 
mation. 



Sec. S] tHE GAZETTE OF irMDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1 957/AGRA HAYANA 30, 1879 2899 


Appendix I 

List of University degrees which will be recognised for admission to the 
examination [vide rule 10(c)] 

Aberdeen— B. Sc., Engineering (Honours or Ordinary Degree). 

Cambridge . — Ordinary degree B.A. in Engineering provided the graduate has 
passed in the principal subjects, Engineering I, Engineering II and Engineering 
III. 

Durham. — B.Sc., in Marine Engineering. 

Glasgow. — B.Sc., In Naval Architecture (Honours 01 * Ordinary Degree). 

Note, — The above degrees will be accepted only if taken after three years’ 
study and the passing of the regular examinations in the several Universities. The 
conditions as to three years’ study will not, however, apply to Indians who, 
having taken an Indian degree, which exempts them from part of the University 
course, shall have taken one of the above degrees in less than three years in 
accordance with the regulations of the University concerned. 


Appendix II 

Standard and Syllabus of the examination (vide Rule 15) 
Subjects 

(a) Compulsory : — 

1. English (including Essay and Precis writing) 

2. General Knowledge 

3. Electrical Engineering 

4. Mechanical Engineering 

5. Applied Mechanics (Including strength of materials and 

Theory of Structures) 

6. Personality Test 

<b) Optional : — 


Marks 


100 

100 

200 

200 

200 

300 


(Not more than two of the following subjects ) — 


1. Physics (including Electricity and Magnetism) ... ... 100 

2. Electrical Communication Engineering ... ... 100 

3. Prime Movers .. ... ... ... 100 

4. Applied Mathematics ... , . , , . , ... 100 

5. Hydraulics and Hydraulic Machines ... , ... 100 


Note 1, — All papers must be answered in English. 

Note 2. — Candidates must write the papers in their own hand. In no 
circumstances will they be allowed the help of an amanuensis (scribe) to write 
down answers for them. 


2. The standard and syllabus of the examination will be such as the Commis- 
sion shall prescribe. 

3. The Commission have discretion to fix qualifying marks in any or all the 
subjects at the examination. 

4. The Commission will summon at their discretion only those candidates whom 
they consider suitable for Interview for the Personality Test. 

5. Special attention will be paid in the Personality Test to assessing the candi- 
dates’ capacity for leadership, initiative and intellectual curiosity, tact and other 
social qualities, mental and physical energy, powers of practical application and 
Integrity of character. 

0. From the marks assigned to candidates in each subject such deduction will 
be made as the Commission may consider necessary, in order to secure that no 
credit is allowed for merely superficial knowledge. 

7. Deductions up'to 5 per cent, of the maximum marks for the written subjects 
will be made for illegible handwriting, 

8. Credit will be given for good English including orderly, effective and exact 
expression combined with due economy of words in" all subjects of the examina- 
tion and not only in subjects which are specially devoted to English 



2900 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21 , 1937/AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 [Part II 


Appendix IU 
Fees 

(See Rule 14) 

Candidates seeking admission to the examination must pay the following 
fees: — 

(a) To the Commission: 

(i) Re. 1/- when asking for application form and connected documents. 

This amount should be paid to the Commission by Money Order, Local 

candidates, however, may pay cash at the counter. The Commission 
will not accept payment made otherwise. 

(ii) Rs. 81' 50 (Rs. 19‘62 in the case of candidates belonging to Scheduled 

Castes and Scheduled Tribes) with the completed application form. 

This amount should be paid by means of Treasury Receipt or CROSSED 
Indian Postal Orders payable to Secretary, Union Public Service 
Commission. The Commission will not accept payment made other- 
wise. 

(b) To the Medical Board: 

Rs. 16/- before examination by a Medical Board, if selected for appoint- 
ment. ' 

This amount should be paid in cash to the Medical Board concerned at 
the time of the Medical examination. 

2. Once an application has been considered by the Commission and the decision 
communicated to the candidate, no claim from the candidate for a refund of the 
fee paid by him to the Commission will ordinarily be entertained nor can this 
fee be held in reserve for any other examination or selection. If, however, a 
candidate is not admitted to the examination by the Commission, a refund of 
Rs. 75/- (Rs. 18-75 in the case of candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes and 
Scheduled Tribes) will be made to him. 

3. The Commission may at their discretion remit the prescribed fee where 
they are satisfied that the applicant is a bom fide displaced person from Pakistan 
or from the unliberated areas of Jammu and Kashmir and is not in a position, 
to pay the prescribed fee. The fee of Re. 1/-, however, must be paid even by 
a displaced person when asking the Commission for form and this amount will 
be refundable to him if on receipt of his application, his claim to be a displaced 
person is accepted by the Commission and nis fee is remitted. 


Appendix IV 

Brief particulars regarding the Central Electrical Engineering Service, Class IT 

1. Persons recruited to the Service through Competitive Examinations shall 
be on probation for a period of at least two years and they will receive pay in 
the time scale of Rs. 275—25 — 500 — E.B. — 30 — 650- — E.B, — 30—800. On completion 
of the probationary period, if they have passed the prescribed departmental, 
examinations and are considered fit for permanent appointment, they will be- 
confirmed as Assistant Engineers. 

2. The Central Electrical Engineering Service, Class II, consists of a number 
of posts of Assistant Engineers (Sub-Divisional Officers) but persons recruited 
to the Service will be eligible for promotion to the Central Electrical Engineering 
Service, Class I, if they fulfil the conditions laid down in the recruitment rules 
for that service. The Central Electrical Engineering Service, Class I, comprises 
a number of superior posts as follows: — 

1. Electrical Engineers — Rs. 600—40—1,000 — 1,000 — 1,050 — 1,050—1,100 — 

1,100—1,160. 

2. Administrative (Selection) Posts — 

Superintending Engineers — Rs. 1,300 — 60 — 1,600, 

3. Provident Fund,- — Officers entering the Central Electrical Engineering 
Service, Class II, will be eligible to Join the General Provident Fund and wifi 
be governed by the Rules regulating that Fund. 


[No. EWI-15 (0) /57-IV.J 
R. T. D, JOSEPH, Under Secy. 



Sic. 3] ThE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 2H I957/AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 390 ! 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

New Delhi, the 29 th November 1957 

S.R.O. 4059. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of 
section 3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation) Act, 1964^ 
(44 of 1954), the Central Government hereby appoints all the Revenue Assistants 
of the various districts of Punjab to be Settlement Officers in that State for the 
purpose of performing within their respective jurisdiction the functions assigned 
to a Settlement Officer, under section 9 of the said Act, in respect of compen- 
sation payable in the form of agricultural lands in any rural area Including 
houses, cattle sheds and vacant sites, if any, in any such area allotted along 
with any such lands. 

[No. 1(7) (32)-S.HI/57-IL] 
H. S. NAIR, Under Secy. 


DELHI DEVELOPMENT PROVISIONAL AUTHORITY AND COMPETENT 

AUTHORITY 

New Delhi, the 21st November 1957 

SJR.O. 4060. — Under Section 36 of the Slum Areas (Improvement and Clear- 
ance) Act, 1956, I, G. Mukharji, Competent Authority and Secretary, Delhi Deve- 
lopment (Provisional) Authority direct that any powers exercisable by me 
under this Act may also be exercised by Shrl R. Bhardwaj, Additional Secretary, 
Delhi Development (Provisional) Authority. 

[No'.' Sc.2(3)/57.] 
G. MUKHARJI, 

Competent Authority & Secretary, 
Delhi Development (Provisional) Authority. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi , the 11th. December 1957 

S.R.O. 4061.- — The following draft of certain further amendments to the 
Minimum Wages (Central) Rules, 1950, which the Central Government proposes 
to make in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections (1) and (2) (f) of 
section 30 of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 (ll'of 1948), is published as required 
by sub-section (1) of that section for the information of all persons likely to be 
affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken 
into consideration on or after the 15th January 1958. 

Aliy objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
regard to the said draft before the date specified above will be considered by 
the Central Government. 

Draft Amendments 


In the said .Rules — 

I. in rule 22, for the word “extracts”, the word “abstracts” shall be substituted; 

II. for rule 23, the following rule shall be substituted, namely: 

“23. Weekly day of rest.—( 1) Subject to the provisions of this rule, an 
employee in a scheduled employment in respect of which minimum 
rates of wages have been fixed under the Act, shall be allowed a 
day of rest every week (hereinafter referred to as “the rest day’) 
which shall ordinarily be Sunday, but the employer may fix any 
other day of the week as the rest day for any employee or class of 
employees in a scheduled employment: 

Provided that the employee has been continuously employed in the 
scheduled employment for a period of not less than six days: 

Provided further that the employee shall be informed of the day fixed as 
rest day and of any subsequent change in the rest day by display of a 
notice to that effect In the place of employment, 



2902 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 [Part 11 


(2) Any such employee shall not be required or allowed to work in a 

scheduled employment on the rest day unless — 

(a) he has or will have a substituted rest day for a whole day on one 

of the five days immediately before or after the rest day; and 

(b) prior intimation is given by the employer to the! employee of his 

intention to require the employee to work on the rest day and also 
of the day which is to be substituted: 

Provided that no substitution shall be made which will result in the 
employee working for more than ten days consecutively without 
a rest day for a whole day. 

(3) Where in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this rule, any 

employee works on a rest day and has been given a substituted rest 
day on any one of the five days before or after the rest day, the 
said rest day shall, for the purpose of calculating the weekly hours 
of work, be included in the week in which the substituted rest day 
occurs. 


<4) An employee shall be granted for the rest day wages equal to the 
average daily wages during the preceding week; and in case he 
works on the rest day and has been given a substituted rest day, 
the employee shall be paid, in addition to the wages payable for 
the rest day on which he has worked, wages for the substituted 
rest day, equal to the average daily wages during thei preceding 
week; 

Provided that no such wages for the rest day or for the substituted rest 
day shall be payable where the minimum daily rate of wages of the 
employee as notified under the Act has been worked out by dividing 
the minimum monthly rate of wages by twenty-six and if any 
difficulty or doubt arises in this regard, the same shall be referred 
to the Chief Labour Commissioner (Central), New Delhi, for 
decision. 


Note: For the purposes of this sub-rule “average daily wages” shall not 
include overtime. 

(5) The provisions of this rule shall apply to the employees in scheduled 

employments other than agricultural employment. 

(6) The provisions of this rule shall not operate to the prejudice of, nor 

shall they apply in addition to, more favourable terms, if any, to 
which an employee may be entitled under any other law or under 
the terms of any award, agreement or contract of service. 


Explanation : — The word "week” used in this rule will mean a period of 
seven days beginning at mid-night on Saturday night”; 

«• ^ ;T or l n ,fX' A ' f ° r the word “Extracts” occurring in the heading, the word 

abstracts shall be substituted, and under the sub-heading "IV flours of Work 
and Holidays", for the paragraph — 


, ‘Theernployer shall allow a day of rest with pay in every period of seven 
days. Ordinarily Sunday the first day of the week shall be the holiday”, the 
following paragraph shall be substituted, namely:— 

The employer shall allow a day of rest with wages to the employees 
every week. Ordinarily Sunday will be the weekly day of rest, 
but any other day of the week may be fixed as such rest day. No 
employee shall be required to work on a day fixed as rest day, 
unless he Is allowed a substituted rest day with wages. The employ- 
er shall give prior intimation to the employee if he is required to 
work on the rest day (see rule 23)”. 


[No. L WI-I-3 ( 2 £>) /5 7. J . 
N. C. KUPPUSWAMI, Dy. Secy. 



S*c. J] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21. 1957 /AG RAHAYANA SO, 1079 2903 
New Delhi , the 12 th December 1957 


, f?n 2 TYn^ v S immediately before the Employees Provident Funds 

Act, 1952 (19 of 1952) became applicable with effect from the 1st October, 1956, 
to the establishment of M/S Ayurveda Rasashala, Poona Ltd. Kame Road, 
Poona-4, there was in existence a provident fund common to the employees 
employed in the establishment of the said company to which the said Act applies 
and the employees in their establishments specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed: 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the 
Employees Provident Funds Act 1952, (19 of 1952), the Central Government 
hereby directs that the provisions of the said Act shall apply to the said establish- 
ments of the Company, 

Schedule 

(1) M/S A. R. P. Limited, City Library Road, Amraoti, 

(2) M/S A, R. P, Limited, Brihan Maharashtra Bhuvan, Paharganj, New 

Delhi, 

(3) M/S A. R. P. Limited, Mahadwar Road, Kolhapur, 

(4) M/S A. R. P. Limited, Mahal Road, Nagpur, 

(5) M/S A. R. P. Limited, Opposite Majestic Cinema, Glrgaum, Bombay— 4, 

(6) M/S A. R. P. Limited, 405/A, Narayan Ashram, Lalbaugh, Tram Terminus, 
Bombay, 

(7) M/S A. R. P. Limited, Laxmi Road, Ganpati Chowk, Pdona No, 2, 

(fl) M/S A. R. P. Limited, New Apollo Talkies, Opposite Tanga Stand, 

25-Nagesh Peth, Poona — 2, 

C9> M/S A. R. P. Limited, Mahatma Gandhi Road, Sangli, 

(i6) M/S A. R. P. Limited, Maratha Galli, Hubli, 

(11) M/S A. R. P. Limited, 1728, Ramdeo Galli, Belgaum, 

(12) M/S A. R. P. Limited, Jalori Gate, Jodhpur. 

j [No. P.F. II 57(28)57.] 

New Delhi, the 14th December 1957 

SJI.O. 4063. — /CDLB/Am(7)/57. — In pursuance of clause 4 of the 
Calcutta Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1956, the Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri D. S. Bose, to be a member of the Calcutta 
Dock Labour Board vice Shri K. P, Gorsia and makes the following further 

amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 

Labour S.R.O. No. 2316 dated the 8th October, 1956, namely: — 

In the said notification, under the heading “Members representing the 
employers of dock workers and shipping companies’’, for the entry 
“(1) Shri K. P. Gorsia”, the entry “(1) Shri D. S. Bose” shall be 
substituted, 

[No. Fac. 175(21).] 
R, C. SHARMA, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 12th December 1957 

S.R.O. 4064. — In pursuance of clause (b) of sub-rule (2) of Rule 72 of 
the Mines Rules, 1955 and In continuation of the notifications of the 
Government of India in the late Ministry of Labour No. S.R.O, .3170 dated the 
20th December 1956 and in the Ministry of Labour and Employment No, S.R.O. 
3500 dated the 29th October 1957, published in the Gazette of India, Part II, 
Section 3, dated the 29t.h December 1956 and 2nd November 1957, respectively, 
the Central Government hereby recognizes for the purposes of the said rule, the 
institution mentioned In column I of the table below in respect of the degree and 
diploma in Social Science or Labour Welfare mentioned in column II thereof 


Table 

I 

II 

Madras School of Social Work, Madras 

. Diploma in Social Serlvce Administration. 


iGPIo. MI 11-34(11)57.] 




2904 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 [Part II 


S.R.O. 4065. — In pursuance of sub-section (4) of section 3 of the Mica Mines 
Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1946, (22 of 1946), the Central Government hereby 
publishes the following report of the activities financed from the Mica Mines 
Labour Welfare Fund for the year ending the 31st March 1957, together with 
an estimate of receipts and expenditure of the Fund and a statement of accounts 
for that year, 


PART I — ACTIVITIES IN AJMER 

1, The Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund Advisory Committee for Ajmer met 
once during the year 1956-57. 

2 The Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund Advisory Committee for the former 
State of Ajmer was constituted on the 21st April 1955, As a result of the enact- 
ment of the States Re-organisation, Act 1936, the State of Ajmer merged with 
that of Rajasthan with effect from the 1st November 1956, The Advisory Com- 
mittee ceased to function from that date. The Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund 
Advisory Committee for the new State of Rajasthan is being constituted. 

I. Medical Facilities 


(a) Mobile Medical Unit . — It catered to the medical needs of the miners and 
their dependents both as their homes and work places. It visited all the three 
mica mining areas of Ajmer State; each area was visited on an average thrice 
in a month. During the year under review 12752 patients were treated as 
against 8,039 in 1966-56. 

Besides the above, the Civil Assistant Surgeon of the Unit gave advice to the 
workers regarding prevention of diseases, improvement of sanitation and cleanli- 
ness, 

(b) Maternity & Child Welfare . — The Maternity Centres at Village Para and 
Sanod continued to provide medical and maternity facilities. Since the post of 
midwife at the Maternity Centre, Sanod, could not be filled during the year, no 
work could be done. However, arrangements were made to provide at least medi- 
cal aid at this Centre. 


The details of the work done at all the 

above centres are as follows: 

1 


1955-56 

1956-57 

y 

iJ No. of patients treated .... 

1 


2 . No. of labour cases conducted 

24 

12 

3 .' No. of pre-natal case* attended and cared 

47 

1 — 

4 . No. of post-natal cases attended and cared 

63 

13 

5 . No. of Infants attended and cared 

1 ,21 1 

714 


During the course of discharge of the above mentioned duties, the nurse-eum-dai 
also gave advice to the females regarding cleanliness, prevention of diseases, 
keeping of babies tidy and healthy, and as to how to become good mothers, 

II, Welfare Centres 

The Welfare Centres at Para and Sanod continued to function with the fol- 
lowing facilities; — 

(1) Educational facilities . — Training was imparted daily to the females of 

the miners in handicrafts such as sewing clothes by hand and on 
machine, knitting of woollen and cotton garments, embroidery etc. 

(2) Recreational Facilities . — One radio, Indoor games like carrom, Chopar, 

and musical instruments were provided for recreation. Outdoor 
games like foot-ball and volley ball were also provided. 



Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 2905 


Besides, two Hindi daily newspapers were also provided. The attendance at 
the Centres was as follows: — 


S. Name of Centre Average attendance per day 

No. ; 

of female trainees to of persons who 
knitting and sew- visited Centre for 
ing classes recreation etc. 


1955-56 1956-57 1955-56 1956-57 

1. Para 11 14 24 21 

2. Sanod 11 13 36 36 

The Children’s Park at village Para was very popular among the children. 

The attendance of the listeners to the radio Centre at Village Jawaja was 
fairly good during the year. 

III. New (Schemes 

It was decided to establish two mere welfare centres at villages Sarana and 
Surajpur similar to one already established at village Para during the year 
under review. They will be established in the year 1957-58. 

PART II— ACTIVITIES IN ANDHRA 

The Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund Advisory Committee (Andhra) Nellore, 
met six times during the year and the Finance Sub-Committee twice. 

I, Medical Facilitieb 

(a) Dispensaries , — The Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund maintained 3 Static 
■dispensaries. These are situated in the heart of the Andhra Mica Mining area 
at Kallchedu, Talupur and Sydapuram. All these dispensaries worked satisfacto- 
rily and rendered medical aid to the mica mining labourers and their families. 
A staff nurse taken on deputation from the State Medical Deportment to work 
in Kallchedu hospital, joined in May 1957, A temporary in-patient ward of eight 
beds attached to the dispensary at Kallchedu served the patients very well. 

Statistics of the work done in the dispensaries in the year are given below: — 


Dispensary 



Total number 
of patients treated 

Out 

patients 

In 

patients 

Kallchedu 


. 


57233 

462 

Talupur . 


* 


48755 

— 

Sydapuram 

. 

. 

- 

34242 

— 

Mobile dispensary 


. 

■ 

5998 

— 





146228 

I 462 

Medicines worth 

Rs. 13,589-4-0 

were supplied to 

the 

dispensaries during 1956-57. 

A microscope 

was provided 

in the dispensary 

at 

Kallchedu and the 

following 

laboratory tests 

were conducted during the year 

under report: — 






1955-56 

1956-57 

Blood tests 


«... 


178 

178 

Sputum tests . 




86 

73 

Urine tests 




650 

=99 

Motion tests . 




15 

n 

ESR tests 




. . _ 

34 

4SSF tests . 

■ 

* 


— 

2 




290 6 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1 95 7 /AGR AHAYA N A SO, 1879 [Past II 


The medical Officers in addition to their dispensary work, trained workers 
in the Mica Mines in First Aid for being appointed as First Aid certificate 
holders as required by section 21 of the Indian Mines Act, 1952. In 1956 the 
Medical Officer, Kalichedu, trained 75 persons and the Medical Officer Sydapuram 
30 persons. 

In addition to the three Static dispensaries there is one Mobile dispensary, 
in-charge of a Medical Officer. The Medical Officer and the Corripounder visited 
the mines and labour colonies situated beyond three miles from static dispensaries 
according to a presented programme and treated the patients at the places. Ac- 
cording to the programme approved by the Advisory Committee, all such mines 
and colonies were covered once in a week. The statistics of work done by the 


mobile unit are furnished below. 

1. Number of days on tour ........ 123 days 

2. Number of mines visited ........ 187 

3. Total number of new cases treated. '...... 5623 

4. Total number of old cases treated. " I ..... 386 

5. Surgical operations conducted ....... 19 

6. Medical examination of school children ..... 200 


For a major part of the year, the Medical Officer in-chargo of Mobile dispensary 
was kept in charge of Static dispensaries as the posts of Medical Offlcer-in- 
charge of those dispensaries were cavant. 

(b) Maternity centres . — Four maternity centres run by the Fund rendered 
useful service to women labourers and children in the mining area. Each mater- 
nity centre was under the charge of a midwife and their work was supervised 
by the Lady Health Visitor. Besides supervising the work of the midwives, she 
assisted the midwives in difficult labour cases. Three centres situated at the 
dispensaries got assistance from the Medical Officers in difficult cases. The mid- 
wives also distributed milk made of milk powder supplied by the Indian Red- 
Cross Society to the under-nourished children daily at the centres. Jaggery was 
purchased by the Fund and mixed with the milk and then distributed so as to 
make it more palatable. 

The work done In these centres in the year by the Midwives and the Lady 
Health Visitor Is detailed below : - ■- 


1955-56 1 1956-57 


1. Total number of antenatal cases treated. 

1085 

1180 

2. Total number of Post-natal cases treated. ..... 

549 

522 

3 . Total number of antc-natnl cases treated under care. 

— 

497 

4. Total number of Labour cases conducted by midwives . 

509 

446 

5, Total number of Labour cases by Lady Health Visitor *- 

18 

T 

6. Total number of Labour Forceps cases conducted .... 

3 

4 

7. Total number of Antenatal cases supervised by the Lady Health Vi- 
sitor 

925 

87& 

8. Total number of Post-natal cases supervised by the Lady Health Visl- 
tor. 

549 

444 

9. Total number of Infants treated and under care, .... 

225 

210 

10. Total number of House visits by Midwives and Lady Health Visitor. 

II 9 I 0 

7385 

11. Total number of children served with milk during the year. 

185 

145 

12. Quantity of milk powder consumed ...... 

1557 

per day. 
1594 lbs. 

13. Quantity of Jaggery consumed. 

594 

557 

14, Number of clinics conducted by Lady Health Visitor. 

78 

941 

15. Number of pregnant women examined and given advice at clinics. ■ 

379 

402 . 

16. Quantity of Butter oil distributed among families of labourers (supp- 
lied by Indian Red Cross Society) ...... 

2863 

4576 lb a. 



Sec, 3] TlfcE GAZETTE OF INDIA; DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGRAHAYANA SO, 1879 2907 




1955-56 

1956-57 

17 . 

Total number of labour families served with butter oil. . 

4038 

5918 

*8. Number of babies present for the baby show.' > .... 

79 

50 

19 . 

Number of prize winners in the Baby show. ..... 

4 

4 

-20. 

Quantity of Milk powder distributed to the creches in the mining area 

292 

140 lbs. 

21. 

Number of abnormal cases conducted. 

98 

86 

-22. 

Number ol’ multivitamin tablets distributed ..... 

2000 

4900 


(c) Reservation of beds in State Government Hospitals. — Two beds in the 
Nellore District Headquarter’s Hospital and one in the Gudur Government Hos- 
pital were continued to be reserved for the exclusive use of mica mines labour 
patients at the cost of the Fund. Rs, 1000 was paid for the purpose to the State 
•Government. The cases that required special and extraordinary treatments were 
transferred by the Medical Hospital, Nellore which has better facilities and special 
-equipment for special treatment. The number of patients treated against these 
reserved beds during 1966-57 are given below; — 


1955-56 1956-57 


District Head-quarters 

Hospital, Nellore ......... 5 27 

Government Hospital, Gudur. ....... 2 nil 


(d) Combating Tuberculosis among Mica Mine Labourers. — Tuberculosis and 
.Silicosis are the worst diseases to which mica mines labourers are subjected. 
Steps were taken to combat these diseases at the cost of the Fund. The Fund 
contributed Rs. 15000 for reservations of 8 beds for the exclusive use of mica 
mine labourers and their families in the State Government T.B. Hospital at 
Nellore, It was subsequently decided that the amount of Rs. 16,000 already 
eontributed might be treated as having been given for the construction of a 
T.B. Ward of 8 beds and that Rs. 100 must be paid per bed per month for the 
patients xecommended by the Fund authorities and admitted in the Tuberculosis 
Hospital, Nellore, The concurrence of the State Government in this was awaited. 

In addition, proposals for the construction of a Tuberculosis ward at Kalicbedu 
were under consideration. 

<e) Anti-Malaria Operations. — The Anti-malaria Unit working under the 
supervision of the Senior Entomologist, Nellore, continued to work In the mining 
area during the year. The operations were very successful and, as a result, there 
was fall In the incidence of malaria. 


The details of anti-malaria operations conducted during the year are given 
below : — 


(1) Total number of quinine tablets distributed in 
the year in the mining area. 

4866 

Q. Sulphate tablets. 

(2) Total number of Sq. feet over which D.D.T. 

1st round : 

6449367 Sq. ft, 

was sprayed 

2nd round ; 

6275812 Sq, ft. 

(3) Total number of structures sprayed. 

1st round ; 

8451 

1 

2nd round : 

8246 

■(4) Number of villages and mines in which D.D.T. 

1st round ; 

38 villages 

was sprayed 

& 

96 mines 


2nd round : 

38 villages 

93 mines 



2908 T H E GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21. 1957/AGRAHAYANA 30 . 1879 [Past II 


(5) Number of Laboratory tests conducted. 

No. of smears examined 

Positive 

Parasite rate 

582 

nil 

nil 

(6) Number of spleen tests conducted. 



(a) Number of children examined. • < 


2753 

(f>) Positive ...... 


I 

(c) Spllenrate 


0 -0004 


Proposals for further continuance of the scheme for 1957-58 partly at the cost 
of the Fund and partly at the cost of the State Government were under consi- 
deration. 


II. Educational Facilitikb 

(a) Schools. — There aTe six elementary schools working In the mining area 
under the Fund. In addition, one Middle school Is also run by the Fund at 
Kalichedu. A Senior Deputy Inspector of schools of the State Government has 
been deputed to work as Head Master of the school. He joined in January 1937. 
Number of students who attended the schools is as follows; — 

(1) Number of children in all the six elementary schools were.' .... 515 

(2) Number of students in the middle school were. ...... 71 

Free supply of books and slates etc was made to the children of mica mine 
labourers studying in these schools at a cost of Rs. 744-15-0 during the year. 
Midday meals were also served to the children studying in these schools and 
this proved very successful as it induced almost all children of mica mine 
labourers In the mining area to enter the schools. In the year 1956-57 a sum 
of Rs. 8816-4-6 was spent towards for the supply of midday meals. 63200 meals 
were served during 1956-57. 

The State Government granted financial aid to the schools run by the organi- 
sation. The total amount of State Aid received during 1950-57 was Rs. 7493-4-0. 
During the year, play-ground apparatus viz., ono slide, one set of see-saw, and 
one set of swing were supplied to each of the two schools at Kalichedu and 
Talupur at a total cost of Rs, 912-8-0. 

(b) Other Educational Facilities. — Every year scholarships are granted to the 
children of mica mine labourers studying in Higher Elementary Schools, Secon- 
dary Schools and Colleges, for the prosecution of their studies. During the year 
1956-57 a sum of Rs. 1737-7-0 was granted to 65 eligible candidates at the rates 
granted by the Stato Government in Harijan Welfare Department. 

(c) Boarding Home. — A sum of Rs. 4000 was sanctioned for one year to run 
a Boarding Home at Sydapuram for giving boarding and lodging facilities to the 
children of mica mine labourers studying in the District Board High School, 
Sydapuram. During 1956-57 a sum of Rs. 1320-3-9 was spent under the scheme. 
11 students took advantage of the scheme. 

Sanction was also accorded to an expenditure of Rs. 2,300 for free supply of 
one set of dress to each of the children of mica mine labourers studying in the 
Elementary Schools. 328 boys and 92 girls were benefited by this, 

III. Handicrafts 

(a) Schools. — In the two big schools at Kalichedu and Talupur, the children 
were taught handicrafts like tape-weaving, stitching knitting and embroidery 
etc. works. Tape-weaving was taught to children in all other schools also Neces- 
sary implements were supplied to them during the year 1955-56.. 

(b) Community, Centre. — There is one community centre run by the Fund in 
the mining area for the benefit of mica mine labourers and their families. The 



Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 2909 


Junior Assistant Welfare Inspector, Kaiichedu, supervised the work in the men’s 
flection and the Assistant Welfare Inspector (Lady) supervised the work in the 
women’s section. 

Men's Section. — Men labourers learned carpentry in their leisure hours. A 
qualified tutor in carpentry taught carpentry both to the school children in the 
Higher Elementary School, Kaiichedu and men labourers. Raw material such as 
wood nails, joints etc. worth of Rs. 225-15-8 were supplied to the centre for the 
use of the trainees. They made articles such as tables. chairs, easy chairs, 
children carts, wall stands, almirahs, time piece stands etc. Some of them were 
sold in public auction and some were supplied to dispensaries and schools. An 
amount of Rs. 30-11-0 was realised by the sale of the articles manufactured in 
the carpentry section. The number of persons trained in the carpentry centre 
during the year is given below: — 


Men labourers ........... 20 

School boys ............ 60 


Warnen’s Section. — A qualified Lady Tutor is incharge of this Section. Women 
labourers and school girls were taught tailoring, knitting and embroidery in the 
Section. Needles, cloth, wool, etc. worth Rs. 42-11-0 was supplied to the centre. 
Finished goods worth Rs. 43-8-0 were sold to labourers during the year, A sew- 
ing machine worth Rs. 204-1-0 was supplied to the centre during the year. 18 
women and 20 school girls were given training during the period under report. 

(p) Co-operative Societies . — No Co-operative society could be formed among 
the labourers by the Co-operative Department, as there was no response from 
the labourers. The Deputy Registrar of Co-operative Societies sent the Mobile 
Handloom cloth stores to the mining area once during the year and the labourers 
had the benefit of purchasing handloom cloth and got advantage of the rebate 
scheme. 


IV. Recreational Facilities 

(a) There are six Radio centres in the mining area and they worked satis- 
factorily. It was decided to Install a Radio set in Shah Mine Labour Colony at 
a cost nf Rs. 1000. The State Government Broadcasting Department were re- 
quested to supply the Radio. A new Radio In place of the old one was sanctioned 
at a cost of Rs. 850 for Palamanai Mine Labour Colony. The State Broadcasting 
Department were requested to supply the Radio. The Radio centres in the 
Kaiichedu and Utukur mining areas were electrified by tho generous assistance 
of the public of these places and the sets were converted into ‘main’ sets. There 
are five Recreational Clubs in the mining areas. About 100 labourers ' used to 
take part in games of foot-l^all, volley ball, kabadi, badminton, etc. daily. The 
tv r u Bhajana parties were not functioning actively, 

(•b) Sports. — The annual sports for the mica mining labourers and their 
children were conducted on a zonal basis from 7th February 1957 to 24th March 
1957 and prizes were distributed by the Chairman on 24tn March 1957. About 
1000 labourers and their children took part In the sports. A drama LAVA-KUSA 
in Telugu was also enacted by the dramatic troupe of mica mine labourers, 
Kaiichedu, on that day. The details of amounts spent are given below: — 

R t A. Ps. 


P 864 4 3 

Sweet ? to children 52 11 o 

Incidental expenses .......... 150 4 O 

Drama 2000 


1 17 3 3 


During the year the proprietors of Seetharamanjaneya Mica Mine, Kaiichedu 
donated a ever rolling silver shield for the winners in waste mica scissor cutting. 

About 500 men, 150 women, 250 boys and 100 girls took part in the sports. 

V, Housing Scheme 

The Subsidised Housing Scheme could not be implemented due to the reluct- 
ance of the mine owners. 



2^10 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21. 1957/AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 [Part H 


VI, Drinking Water Facilities 

It was agreed to construct a well at Shantinagar from the Fund's resources. 
One mine owner was permitted to sink a well under the subsidised well’s scheme 
and the application of the another mine owner was under consideration, 

VII. Buildings 

The following building works were sanctioned during the year: 


R». 


(1) Re-roofing of in-attached to the dispensary, patient ward, Kalichcdu - . 4420 

(2) Provision of Iron grills and shatters to the doors and windows of Isolation ward and 

other repairs, Kahchedu. 1 430 

1 

A number of the works have almost been completed. The remaining are 
receiving attention of the Central Public Works Department at different stages. 

(3) Re-roofing of old dispensary building, Kalichedu, ..... 3000 

(4) Provision of collapsible gates for the dispensary building, Sydapuram . . 3920 

{5) Provision of Iron grills to the windows of school building, Talupur. . . 1000 

(6) Provision of Iron grills to the school building, Kalichedu. .... 1000 

(7) Provision of collapsible gates to the dispensary, Talupur. ..... 3920 

(8) Temporary kitchen shed for inpatient ward at Kalichcdu. .... 1500 

(9) Maternity centre, Utukur. 15000 

The following works were sanctioned In previous years. 

(1) Base Hospital, Kalichedu. . 2,01,700 

(2) Maternity centre, Sydapuram 13,600 


During the year, school Buildings at Kalichedu were opened by the Chairman. 
These two buildings were donated one by M/s. Kalyanarama Mica Co., Kalichedu 
and the other by Shri Seetharam Mica Co., Kalichedu for the purpose of accom- 
modating classes of Elementary School, Kalichedu, as a portion of the building 
constructed by the Fund had been occupied by the Middle School newly opened. 
The dispensary building at Talupur and Sydapuram were electrified during the 
year. During the year, Shri Sidda Reddy Venkata Suba Reddl donated an extent 
of Ac. 1-04 in S. No. 292-B. 2 of Turimerla for purposes of the Organisation and 
the gift deed was registered on 27th October 1956. The proprietors of Shri Krishna 
Mining Co,, Goglnenipuram donated an extent of Ac. 2-73 covered by S. No. 
292/BI of Turimerla for purposes of playground for Middle school, Kalichedu. 
They also executed the gift deed. 


VIII. Enforcement of Welfare Measures on the Surface of Mines 


The two Welfare Inspectors and the Secretary of the Fund were appointed 
as Ex-Officio Inspectors of Mines under the Mines Act, 1952 to enforce sections 
19,20,21,44 and 45 of the Act on the surface. The Welfare Inspectors also 
worked as Liaison Officers between the managements of mines and labourers and 
tried to settle the complaints of labourers amicably by approaching the managers 
and proprietors of mines. The details of work turned out by them in the above 
direction under the supervision of the Secretary during the year are given below: — 

(1) 7 disputes of non-payment of wages Involving 131 labourers amounting 
to Rs. 4375-1-3 were got settled. 


C>) 3 disputes involving 3 labourers amounting to Rs. 1332-11-6 were re- 
ferred to the Regional Labour Commissioner, Madras as they could 
not be settled amicably. 


(3) 

(4) 

( 5 ) 


'he wages of 80 labourers were got raised to the level of minimum 
wages fixed by Government. 

lonus was got paid to one labourer. The amount was Rs. 13-8-0. 

'wo more disputes relating to non-payment of bonus were detected 
and referred to the Regional Labour Commissioner, Madras. 



Sec. 8 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 29 II 


(6) Three Labourers thrown out of employment were got re-installed, 

(7) Latrines were got constructed in four mines. 

(8) Fresh water arrangements were got made In one mine. 

(9) Six cases of non-payment of compensation under the Workmen’s Com- 

pensation Act were reported to the Commissioner of Labour — Andhra. 

(10) Grain allowance was got paid to forty labourers. 

(11) Compensation for retrenchment was got paid to one labourer. 

(12) 9855 houses of labourers were visited and 15975 labourers were con- 

tacted by the Welfare Inspectors and the labourers were advised 
on cleanliness, sanitation, sending children to schools, house economy 
etc. etc. 

<13) Vegetable seeds were distributed among 71 labour families. 

PART III— ACTIVITIES IN BIHAR 

I. The Advisory Committee and the Sub-Committees 

During the year under review, the Advisory Committee for Bihar met 4 times 
when it discussed various important matters connected with the administration 
of the Fund and reached unanimous conclusions, The Advisory Committee was 
assisted by the Finance Sub-Committee which held three meetings during the 

year. 


II, Medical Facilities 

(a) Central Hospital, Karma.— The Central Hospital at Karma continued 
working in full swing during the period under report. The sanctioned bed> 
strength of this Hospital was raised from 30 to 50. This is one of the best 
equipped Hospitals In the State of Bihar and the question of raising it to a 100 
bedded hospital is under consideration. 

The number of patients treated in the outdoor and indoor sections were as 
follows : — 


Section 


Number treated 







1955-56 

1956-57 

I. O. P. D. . 

. 

■ 

- 


3o 3 J45 

IO,6 ji 

2. I.P. C. 


• 


• 

22,091 

22,773 

3. X’-Ray 

. 

• 


• 

. 122 

250 

4 . t.b 

5. Pathology 





. 18-31 

average 
per day. 

4)006 
11 average 
per day. 

(a) Blood 

. 

• 

• 

■ 

715 

858 

(5) Stool 

■ 


■ 

- 

. 321 

398 

(c) Urine 


■ 

• 

- 

237 

434 

(d) Sputum . 



• 

• 

274 

437 


(b) Ambulance . — The Ambulance Van continued functioning for shifting 
eerlous cases from different mines and static dispensaries to the Central Hospital, 
Karma. 

Sanction was accorded to the construction of one Regional Hospital at Tlsri 
for the benefit of the mica labourers. 



2912 THE GAZETTE 01 INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1 957/A CRAHAYANA 30, 1879 [Part II 


(c) Static Dispensaries . — The Fund continued to maintain the five static dis~ 
pensarles of its own at Debour, Dhorakola, Dhab, Bendro and Charkapathal. The 
number of cases treated at these dispensaries during the period under report are 
shown below: — 


Name of Dispensary 


No. of cases treated 


1. Debour Dispensary 

2 . Dhorakola Dispensary . 

3. Dhab Dispensary 

4. Bendro Dispensary 

5. Charkapathal Dispensary 


1955-56 

1956-57 

2,172 

12,572 

20,585 

15,494 

10,260 

^3,177 

13)795 

12,089 

701 

[11,238 


One more static dispensary is being established at Parsabad. 


<d) Mobile Medical Unit . — -The Mobile Medical Unit No. 1 stationed at Karma 
continued to provide medical relief to those Mica Mines and their families who 
were unable to take advantage of the static dispensaries owing to distance and 
lack of proper communication. The number of patients treated by the unit during 
the period under report was 22,912 as against 16,356 during the year 1955-66. 

The activities of the Mobile Medical Unit at Dhorakola remained suspended 
as the Medical Van at Dhorakola could not be repaired during the period under 
report. It is being replaced by a Station Wagon type Van. 

One additional Mobile Medical Unit for Ganwan Zone was expected to start 
its operation very soon. The Mobile Medical Van was received through the 
Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals, Selection of staff personnel has 
been completed. 

(e) Maternity and Child Welfare Centre . — The Maternity and Child Welfare 
Centre at Dhab continued functioning for the benefits of the mica workers at 
Dhab area, Prenatal, natal and post-natal care to the workers’ wives and their 
female dependants was given by the Centre-ln-charge. 


One more additional Maternity and Child Welfare Centre at Dhorakola was 
Started during the period under report. 


The details of work done at these centres during the period under report are 
as follows : — 


Dhab Dhorakola 


(1) Total Nos. of Ante-natal cases treated . 


188 

74 

(2) Total Nob. of Post-natal cases treated . 


152 

5° 

(3) Total Nos. of Children treated .... 


865 

232 

(4) Total Nos. of Miners’ Houses visited. . 


199 

105 

(5) Total Nos. of Labour cases conducted in their home 



6 

(6) Total No. of Dai training classes held . , 

♦ 

8 

19 

(7) Total No. of Mother Crafts classes, held 

. , 

Nil 

120 

(8) Total No. of Children to whom milk was distributed 

. 

337 

397 

III. Anti-Malaria Operations 



The scheme of Insecticidal spraying in the mica field of Bihar continued 
functioning. Two rounds of spraying in the mica fields Including the neighbour- 
ing villages from where the labour came were completed during the period under 
report. The spraying proved very effective. The details of work done by the 
Anti-malaria team were as follows : — 

(1) Villages visited 

(2) Mines visited 

(3) Number of rooms sprayed 

(4) Quantity of Gamaxine powder used 

(5) Paludrine tablets distributed 


98 

337 

. . 28,729 

. . 14,330 tbs. 

. . 70,629 Nos. 



Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGRAHAYANA 30, 1S79 ( 2913-, 


IV. Educational and Vocational Facilities 

(a) Multi-purpose Centre . — 4 Multi-purpose Institutes comprising each of (a) 
Adult Educational Centre and (b) a Women Welfare Centre continued functioning 
at Debour, Dhab, Kodarma and Saphi for the benefit of the mica mines workers 
and their families. 

(b) Adult Education Centre . — The Adult Education Centres continued to offer 
educational and recreational facilities to the mica workers. The Adult workers 
participated in outdoor and indoor games etc. Radio sets with loudspeaker pro- 
vided at each centre proved to be things of great utility and attraction. These 
centres mostly catered to the needs of the Adult workers who wanted to read 
and write. Literacy classes were held every day during evening and morning 
hours according to the convenience of the mica workers. 

Activities of Adult Educatiqn centres 


Name of centre 


No. of 
mines/ 
bashes 
visited 


Average 
Nos. of 
houees 
visited 


Average 
No. of 
persons 
contacted 


1. Dhab 20 6 12 

2. Debour ......... 16 15 21 

3. Kodarma ......... 9 8 17 

4. Saphi 17 13 18 


Attendance of Adults 


Name of Centre 


Average Daily 

Nos. of average 
Adults on Nos. of 
Roll Adult 

attendance 


1. Dhab 

2. Debour 


39 13 

60 26 


3. Kodamia 

4. Saphi 


54 22 1 

42 19 


Recreational Activities 


Games activities Radio Reading 
Name of Centre Programme room 


Outdoor Indoor daily Daily 

daily daily average average 

attendance attendance attendance attendance 
average average 


1 


2 3 4 5 


1. Dhab 

* * 

. 

• 

• 

l6 

13 

15 

6 

2. Debour 



. 


19 

25 

II 

16 

3, Kodarma . 





21 

33 

70 

9 

4. Saphi 





19 

15 

Ni 





29 14 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA' DECEMBER 21, 1957 /AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 [Part II 


(c) Women Welfare Centre . — The Women Welfare Centres have continued to 
afford educational and recreational facilities to the mines children and women 
continued to get training In handicrafts like sewing, knitting, etc. 

Activities of the Women Welfare Centre 

( 1 ) Outdoor works 


Name of centre 


AVERAGE No. of 
mines or Basties 
visited by the 
Field Workers 
during a month 

Daily average 
No. of houses 
visited 

Daily average 
No. of persons 
contacted 

1. Dhab 


. 20 

7 

18 

.2. Debour 


19 

14 

22 

3. Kodarma . 

„ 

7 

11 

18 

4. Saphi 


7 

10 

14 


( 2 ) Attendance of Children 


Nos. of Daily 
children average 

Name of centre on roll. Nos of 

children 

attended. 


I. Dhab 
a. Debour 

3. Kodarma 

4. Sapbi 


75 42 

74 38 

74 40 

1 16 78 


( 3 ) Baths given to the 

children and cloths washed 



Daily 

Daily 

average 


Nos. of 

Nos. of 

Name of centre 

children 

clothes 


given 

washed 


bath 



1. Dhab 38 20 

2. Debour ........... 23 22 

3. Kodarma ........... 22 23 

4. Saphi 20 19 


( 4 ) Children’s Park 


Name of centre 


Daily average No. 
of children attending 
the Children's Park 


1. Dhab 28 

2. Debour ........... 22 

3. Kodarma ........... 47 

4. Saphi 25 



Sec. S] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 2915 


(5) Attendance of Ramins 


Nos. of Daily 
Kanuns average 

Name of the centre on roll Nos. of 

Kamlns 
a enhance; 


x. Dhab 

2. Debour 

3. Kodarma 

4. Saphi 


18 8 

23 4 

12 7 

12 10 


(0) Other activities 


Daily average Nos. of attendance 

Name of the centre — — — ■ — 

Literacy Reading Recrea- 
dass tion 


1. Dhab 

2. Debour 

3. Kodarma 

4. Saphi 


3 3 S 

7 7 9 

237 
2 Nil 7 


The Children’s Parks attached to all centres were equipped with (a) Junior' 
Combination set (b) a Giant stride, (e) an Ocean Wave (d) Slide and (e) Sea 
Saw each. Besides these, a Magic lantern was also provided at all Centres for 
the education of mica miners and children. A magic show was performed by a 
magician in each centre except Saphi during the period under report. On the 
independence Day, the Republic Day, the Mahatma Gandhi Jayanti arid other 
important festivals, special functions were arranged at every centre and sweet- 
meats were distributed amongst children. Dialogue and action songs were given 
by children attending the Institutes. Some members of the Adult Education 
classes gave fine pieces of performance of Folk Dance and Kirtan on these occa- 
sions, A dramatic performance was also held at Saphi on the eve of the Saras- 
wati Pooja. The adults and children were taking keen interest in the drama 
which was a great success. 

(c) Primary Schools. — 6 Primary schools continued to give primary education, 
to the children of the mica mines workers at (1) Khijuri (2) Sankh (3) Khorkotta 
(4) Charki (5) Gajandi and (0) Bhandari. 

V. Recreational Facilities 

(q) Mobile Cinema Van. — The Cinema Van continued to entertain the mica 
mines workers through the display of educative and entertaining films. 152 1 
Cinema shows were given by the Cinema Van at the mines during the period 
under report. 

The Cinema shows were suspended for about 4 months duo to breakdown 
of the Mobile Cinema Van, Against the indent of the 2nd Cinema Unit (16 M.M.) 
placed with the Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals, supplies of the 
cinema projector and accessories were received and the van was awaited. It 
was expected to put the van in operation from the next financial year. 

(b) Radio Sets. — The 16 Radio sets purchased and supplied to the mines for 
the recreation of miners were very useful. The Advisory Committee sanctioned 
purchase of 3 more Radio sets out of which one was purchased and supplied to ■ 
a mine. Steps were in progress for the supply of the other two sets. 

(c) Competitive Sports. — The competitive sports organised during the last 
year created great enthusiasm amongst the workers and they were all eagerly 



2916 THE gazette OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21 . 1957/AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 [Part II 


awaiting the sports for the year under report. As soon as expenditure sanction 
for Rs. 8,000 for organising competitive sports in the mica fields of Bihar was 
received, local sports committees were formed at ten important centres and 
vigorous propaganda was carried out in order to enable larger number of persons 
to participate in the sports. The sports were conducted at the following centres 
and the number of competitors participated in the sports is given against the 
respective centres : - — 


Name of centre 


No. of participants 


I. Kodarma . 





. 


. 



375 

2. Dhorakola 







. 



538 

3 . Dhab 







. 



531 

4. Debour 



V 


• 


* 



279 

5. PesBam . 

■ 

• 

• 


• 

• 

• 



80 

6. Bendi . . 

* 

* 

• 


. 


• 



325 

7. Charkapathal • 

• 

m 


- 

* 


■ 



237 

8 . Bendro 




■ 






386 

9, Karma 




- 

* 


. 



344 

to. Parsabad . 



• 

. 



. 

. 

. 

520 


(d) Central Sports.— Central Sports in which the first in the second successful 
•competitors in the ten different zones participated, were held at Karma, with 
success. The total participants in these sports were 131 and in addition to these, 
each Zone sent a Tug of War team consisting of 9 players. A shield was awarded 
at this occasion to the Zonal Sports Committee, Kodarma for the best Zonal 
Organisation of sports. The Central sports were witnessed by a large gathering 
including the Welfare Commissioner, Dhanbad, who presided over the occasion. 
.Useful and attractive prizes were given away to the winners, 

VI. Provision for Drinking Water 

Three Departmental wells constructed earlier were in use and were very use- 
ful during summer when water was supplied to the miners by a large number 
of carts from the above wells. 

One more well was constructed under the subsidy scheme by Messrs Indian 
Mica Supply Co. Ltd. and this brings the total number of subsidised wells to 
three in the area. 


VII, Housing Schemes 

The Subsldy-Cum-Loan Scheme for the construction of miner’s houses, which 
was sanctioned in 1955 on the lines of the Industrial Housing Scheme of the 
Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply did not find favour with the mica mine 
owners. The Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund Advisory Committee at its 
meeting suggested that subsidy under the scheme might be raised to 50 per cent. 
Where the mine owners were not willing to construct miner's bouses under the 
subsidy scheme, the Fund might undertake to construct houses from the resources 
of the Fund. This question was under consideration. 

VIII. Schemes to be Implemented 

10 small community centres were sanctioned. They would be started in the 
next financial year. Each community will provide dispensary, maternity, edu- 
cational and recreational and drinking water facilities. 

IX. Building Programme 

(a) The Fund completed the construction of the following buildings during 

the year 1956-57:— 

(1) Construction oJ buildings of the Multipurpose Institute at Saphi. 

(2) Construction of 4 primary schools at Gajandlh Sankh, Khijuri and 

Cbarkl. 



.Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGRAHAYANA 80, 1879 29 1 7 


(3) Construction of Morgue for the Central Hospital, Karma. 

(4) Construction of a small stone masonry dam at Phutlaiya in connection 

with drinking water supply scheme. 

(5) Construction of garage for Ambulance Van with a store room at Karma. 

(6) Construction of garage for Anti-malaria truck at Karma. 

(b) The following works were under construction and the progress thereon 
upt.o the 31st March, 1957 is shown against each. 


>f i) Construction of a Multipurpose Institute at Sankh • 

{2) Construction of a Multipurpose Institute at Karma .... 

'3) Construction of Maternity and Child Welfare Centre with residential quarters at 



(4) Construction of 15' dia, 8o' deep well at Dhab • 

<jl Construction of a small well for Dhorakola Dispensary ..... 
<6) Construction of additional quarters for staff of Mica Mines Welfare Fund at 
Karma c— 

(a ) One for Assistant Engineer 

(b) One for Assistant Welfare Inspector 

(c) 21 for class III staff * 

(d) 14 for class IV staff 

O7) Construction of garage and quarters for the Mobile Medical Unit at Dhorakola . 
<8) Construction of Store for Anti- Malaria Section with Laboratory for research work 
at Karma 

1(9) Construction of Ayah and Peons quarters for Multi-purpose Institute at . 

(a) Dhab 

(b) Debour 

(c) Saphi . 


20 % 

20 % 

90% 

68 % 

20 % 


45% 

45% 

10 % 

45% 

85% 

60 % 

20 % 

35% 

12 % 


PART IV— RAJASTHAN 

The Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund Advisory Committee held two meeting* 
■during the period under review. According to the provisions of The State Re- 
Organisation Act, 1956 the State of Ajmer merged with that of Rajasthan with 
effect from 1st November 1956. Steps were being taken to reconstitute a new 
Advisory Committee for the new State of Rajasthan. 

I. Welfare Schemes 

During the year under review, the Welfare Centres at Amli, Bagore, Bemali, 
Ropa (the welfare centre Jamoli was shifted to Ropa on 1st May 19501 Lawa- 
Sardargarh, Bhtlwara, Mandal, Gangapur and Kishangarh worked in full swing. 

XL Medical Facilities 

(a) Static Dispensaries. — Five static dispensaries are functioning at Amli, 
Bogore, Bemali, Ropa and Lawa-Sardargarh. The number of patients treated 
-during the year is as follows: — 


Name of dispensary 

r~ 





Name of patients 
treated 

1955-56 1956-57 

1 . Amli ..... 





8538 

9741 

- 2 . Bagore .... 

» 



* 

14037 

168 x 1 

3 . Bemali .... 



. 

. « 

10696 

1 1035 

4 . Ropa ..... 



. 


694 ; 

7765 

5 . Lawa-Sardargarh . 



• 


7471 

5724 

Total 

• 


• 

• 

47687 

51076 



2918 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1°57/AGRAHAYANA 30 , 1879 [Part II 


In addition to the regular work m the dispensaries the medical officers, com- 
pounders and midwives used to visit villages and mines to advise the workers 
regarding prevention of diseases, improvement of health and sanitation and to 
treat serious patients. Paludrine tablets were distributed in the mining areas 
to prevent malaria before as well as during rainy season. 

(b) Mobile Medical Units . — The Mobile Medical Units go on the specified 
routes every day and cover those mica areas which are not covered by the static 
dispensaries. The number of patients treated by these units during the year is- 
as follows: — 


Name of the I hilt 


Number of 
patients treated 
1955-56 1956- 


1. Mandal 

2 . Bhilwara 

3. Gangapur 

4. Kishangarh 


7203 6f 

6950 5 /i ,* 

7086 41 # 

5Sr7 51 lo 


Total .......... 27056 20871 


The Gangapur Unit functioned only for six months during the period unt 
review as the Medical Officer resigned and went away. 

(c) Maternity and Child Welfare .— There was one Lady Health Visitor at the 
Welfare Centre, Bagore and one Midwife in each centre. They visited post- 
natal and ante-natal cases and attended to labour cases. Milk was distributed 
to children upto 12 years of age and expectant and nursing mothers. Cleanlines 
was given much importance and the children were given ordinary bath before 
distributing milk. Oil bath was also given once in a week at the Ropa Welfare 
Centre. The children were examined once in a week and proper treatment was 
given, The children showed much interest and enthusiasm In making use of 
merry-go-round, sea saw, junior combination and other special games articles 
provided for them. The work done in this direction is as detailed below: — 





1955-50 

1956-5’: 

1. No. of delivery cases conducted 

2. No. of Ante-natal cases treated 

3. No. of Post-natal cases treated 

4 . No, of Children treated. . 

5. No. of Ante-natal cases visited . , 

6. No. of Post-natal cases visited 

7. No. of Infants and todlers undercare 

8 . No. of home 1 : visited .... 



143 

115 

183 

. 1409 

. 121 

. 196 

1590 

1468 

70 

130. 

IOL 

3341 

154 

MS 

>3 

trJ 

art* 

Milk Distribution 

Welfare Centres 



'U 

No, of Beneficiary 




1955-56 

I956-5V 

1. Amli 



7658 

13590 

2. Bagore ....... 



- ■ 3929 

712 

3 . Bemali 



12361 

23231 

4 . Ropa 



2728 

58^- 

5 . Lawa-Sardargarh 



8451 

58 

Total .... 



35127 

55691 



Sec, 3] (THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21. 1957/AGR.AHAYANA 30. 1879 291 ? 


HI . Educational Facilities 

(a) Adult Education . — Taking Into consideration the growing need of adult 
education much care was taken to educate as many adults as possible. The 
education to adults was imparted at the following centres: — 

Ropa, Jamoli, Bemoli, Lawa-Sardargarh, Bagore, Ganeshpura, Gundli, Dhosar, 
Mahendragarh, Amli, Toonka (Dadia) and Khatia-Khedi. 

The total average attendance at these places were 186 per day. The adult 
education classes were conducted according to the curriculam of the State Gov- 
ernment. Slates, books and pencils were supplied free 

(b) Schools . — The primary schools worked at Dhosar, Ganeshpura and 
loonka. At the Amli centre, there is already a primary school of the State Gov- 
ernment. So, VI and VII classes were conducted by the Fund. 

(c) Reading Room, and Library . — The centres at Bagore and Amli were 'pro- 
vided with reading room and library. Some of the other centres were supplied 
jflth Hindi Newspapers. 

I- (d) Fir$t Aid Class . — First aid classes were conducted at all the welfare centres 
Except Rcpa. Out of 194 candidates who appeared, 94 were declared successful. 

’ (e) Health and Safety Exhibition . — In April 1956, an exhibition was arranged 
at Gangapur, which was highly appreciated by the labourers and other public. 
This organisation got second price for its exhibition stalls arranged in 
.-.The Development Exhibition” at Bhilwara in November 1956. In the exhibition 
conducted by the Rajasthan Government, at the time of "Sadhu-Sammelan” at 
Nathdwara in December 1956, the exhibition stall put by this organisation secured 
a prominent place. 


IV, Recreational Activities 


. (a) To meet the requirements of the people, all the Centres, Sub-Centrea and 
important mines were supplied with indoor and outdoor games articles. Besides 
this, five centres were provided with radio sets. In all these centres, the labourers 
listened to radio programmes, specially news and village programmes. 


The average attendance in the centres were as under: — 


1 


Average Attendance 


S. No. Name of place 


Name of centres 

1935-56 

1956-57 

1. Bemali 



Bemali 

4* 

64 

j. L Oodhakhan "1 

3 . 1 aria t 



Bemali 

155 

208 

a uharia , 





’ \udu J 









. Ropa. 

17 

50 

awa-Sardargarh 


- 

. Lawa-Sardargarh 

77 

35 

legas 



. Bemali 

33 

23 

rtkgorc 



Bagore 

S9 

62 

/aneshpura 



Do. 

13 

23 

'oonka 



Do. 

34 

3*5 

clundli 



Do. 

23 

4i 

uunli. 



. Amli. 

65 

48 

Dhosar 



Do. 

25 

34 

''iflhendragarh . 



Do. 

40 

53 

• boll 


* 

. Ropa. 

IJ 

11 




Total 

626 

688 



2920 THE CAZETTE OF ’INDIA: DECEMBER 21. 1957/AGRAHAYANA 30. 1879 [Part II 


(b) Mobile Cinema Unit .— The Mobile Cinema Van paid visits to all important 
mining areas and exhibited films free of charge., This unit gave 131 free shows, 
during the period under review at different places covering a total distance of 
2928 miles. 

(c) Welfare Week.— The welfare week, from the 24th January 1957 to the 
31st January 1957 was organised by the Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund, 
Raiasthan covering also the Republic-day on the 26th January 1957, in its cere- 
mony. The Republic Day programme began with Prabhat Pheries and flag- 
hoisting, games and sports, dramas and other cultural programme were organised, 
women workers also participated in sports at Amli centre. In the. evening meet- 
ings were held at which significance of the Republic day was explained. 

The Independence Day was celebrated in a befitting manner at all centres 
arranging special programmes. The programme in each centre included “Sharam- 
dan”, baby show, sports and canes competition, variety entertainments and public 

meetings. 

Cultural functions were also held at all the centres on days like 'Janmashtami, , 
Harijan day, Maha Shlvratri, Holl Sitla-saptaml etc.’ 

A tournament was organised by the Department of Labour, Government of 
Rajasthan at Jaipur. The team of Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund, Rajasthan 
also participated. 

V Co-operative Societies 

Necessary arrangements were being made to start co-operative societies at all 
the welfare centres. Co-operative societies at Amli and Bemali were running 
smoothly. 

VI. Construction of Buildings 

The construction of the *B’ type welfare centre at Lawa-Sardargarh had been 
completed. Steps were being taken to expedite the. construction of other welfare 
centres’ buildings, head office building and staff quarters. 

VII. Other Activities 

The local committees formed at ail welfare centres continued functioning by 
giving proper guidance to the centres in all directions. 


Statement of Accounts for the year 1956-57 


Receipts 


Expenditure 




Opening balance on the 

Rs. 

As. p. 

Rs. As. 

p. 

1st April 1956 , 

L33,8L5ti 

15 6 Bihar 

7,26,427 

2 

9 



Andhra 

1,77,636 

5 

II 



Rajasthan 

1,95,648 

I 

0 



Ajmer 

25,008 

II 

0 

Receipts during the year 


Closing balance on 




1956-57 

32,56,449 

0 0 31-3-57 

1,55,13,300 

10 

10 

Total 

1,66,38,020 15 6 

1,66,38,020 

15 

6 

* Estimates of Receipts and Expenditure for 1957-58 




Receipts 

Expenditure 

Rs, 


17,00,000 

0 

O 

Bihar 

19,74,000 

0 0 




Andhra . 

6,52,000 

0 0 




Rajasthan 

9,49,000 

0 0 

35,75,000 

0 

O 


e accepted for the budget estimates for 1957-58. 


[No. MIII-33 (3) 57.] 



Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGRAHAYANA SO, 1879 2921 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 11th December 1957 


S.R.O. 4066 . — In the Ministry of Labour & Employment Notification No. 
S.R.O. 3568, dated the 31st October 1957, published in the Gazette of India, Part 
II, Section 3, dated the 9th November 1957, for “University of Burham”, read 
University of Durham”. 

[No. M.TII.34(16)/57.] 
S. RANGASWAMI, Under Secy. 


ORDERS 

New Delhi , the 11th December 1957 

S.R.O. 4067.— Whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that an 
industrial dispute exists or is apprehended between the employers in relation to 
the Katras Choitodih Colliery and their workmen in respect of the matters speci- 
fied in the schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-sec- 
tion (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tri- 
bunal at Dhanbad constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

(i) Whether the services of Shri Azlmuddin Ashraf, Register Keeper of 

Katras-Choltdlh Colliery, were wrongfully terminated? 

(ii) Whether he is entitled to reinstatement and/or any compensation or 

any other relief? 

LNo. LR'II/55-2(20)/57.] 


New Delhi, the 12 th December 1957 

S.R.O. 4068. — Whereas the Central Government is ‘ of opinion that an indus- 
trial dispute exists or is apprehended between the employers In relation 
to Howrah-Amta Light Railways, Calcutta and their workmen in respect of the 
matter specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and 
clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10, of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal 
with Shri A. Das Gupta, Member, Labour Appellate Tribunal, as the Presiding 
Officer, with headquarters at Calcutta, and refers the said dispute to the said 
Tribunal for adjudication. 


Schedule 

Whether the management of Howrah-Amta Light Railways wrongfully 
terminated the services of Kartik Chandra Das, Khalasi and Kartik Chandra 
Das, Canteen Cook, ex-employees of Bankra Workshop. If so whether they are 
entitled for reinstatement and with what benefits. 

[No. LR-3(37)/57.] 


New Delhi , the 17 th December 1957 

S.R.O. 4069.— Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
■dispute exists between the Hindustan Mercantile Bank Limited, Calcutta and its 
workmen, regarding the matter specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 



2922 


GA 


OF INDIA; DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 [Part II 


And whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A, and clause 
(d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with 
Shrl A, Das Gupta, Member, Labour Appellate Tribunal, as the Presiding Officer, 
with headquarters at Calcutta and refers the said dispute to the said Tribunal 
for adjudication. 

Schedule 

Whether Shri R. P. Dubey, a workman of the Hindustan Mercantile Bank 
Limited, is entitled to a special allowance of Rs. 40 as prescribed In paragraph 184 
of the Award of the All India Industrial Tribunal (Bank Disputes) as modified 
by section 3 of the Industrial Disputes (Banking Companies) Decision Act, 1955. 

[No, LRrlO(62)/57.] 
A. L. HANDA, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 
ORDER 

New Delhi, the 11th December 1957 
S.R.O. 4070. — The Central Government hereby: 

(a) directs, in pursuance of the provisions of the Order of the Government 

of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No. S.R.O. 
3805, dated the 28th December, 1955 and in modification of Order 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Information and 
Broadcasting No. S.R.O. 3079, dated the 20th September, 1967, that 
the Advisory Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors at Bombay 
shall consist of 31 members with effect from the 11th December, 
1957; and 

(b) appoints, after consultation with the Central Board of Film Censors, 

Dr, J. F. Bulsara, as a member of the Advisory Panel of the said 
Board at Bombay with eile c t from the 11th December, 1957 in exer- 
cise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (3) of rule 9 read with 
sub-rule (1) of rule 10 of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 
1931. 

[No. 14/3/57-FC.J 
D. R. KHANNA, Under Secy. 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER, GOVT. OF INDIA RHES8, 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1957 



