

REGISTERED No. 1 >. HZ 



omcT^^ra^ 

£he (Bazcttc of <3ndia 

snr«r«i^ * srwfsw 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


,^5cRtT«, 

9** 





tfo 43J art m£w k, swest 21, 1972/mf^ 29, 1894 

No. 43] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, OCTOBER ai, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


5 « vtu <4 fa*r «|B5 5 fercra fa ^ wr tfaapr *p ^ ^ i 

Separate paging is given to this Part in order that it may be filed 
as a separate compilation 


*T»I II — ST<»S 3 — 3TSTO (il) 

PART II — Section 3— Sub-section (ii) 

(tstt *rsnr?wr rk<t arm* % r fatsnrt ?fk (tfu srsmnr «p> ?$>?<*?•) 

%dfta snfaiRNf jttt sirV *tq fafav ?n%5T sfh wfsr^nti 1 

Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Government of India 


(other than the Ministry of Defence) 

Administration of 


MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATION 
(P. & T. Board) 

New Delhi, the 12 th October 1972 

S.O. 28fS3fc~ln pursuance o f nara ( a ) of Station III of 
Rule 434 or dlicUan Telegrapw^KSKST^^N^ntroduced 
by S.O. No. 627, dated 8th March, I960, the Director 
General, Posts and Telegraphs, hereby specifies the 16th 
November, 1972, as the date on which the Measured 
Rate system will be introduced in Palanpur Telephone 
Exchange, Gujrat Circle, 

£Ho. 5 - 6 / 72 -PHB.] 


and by Central Authorities (other than the 
Union Territories.) 


?T^K faraPT 
(3T?r-dTT aftf) 
df fe#, 12STfd«n: 1972 
PTFT) SlT^r 2851. — Pqpft STr^fT 627, 

fpTft? 8 1 960 3T7T dPT fair dtr WKcffa dK fam, 

1951 434 % III % TC (^) % SRdr: 

3PF-dK % TPjRJT: Tdfald if falTff? 

ie-ii-72 srrrrfad 3T wraf) arpr ^ dd fam 

fan 1 1 

[dWT 5-6/72-Rto^vd):o3 


4291 






4 2S>i 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASViNA 29, 1894 


[Part It— 


New Delhi, the 13 th October 1972 

S O. 2852. —In pursuance of para (a) of Section III of 
Ruie 434 of Indian Telegraph Rules, 1951, as introduced 

\ 

by S.O. No. 627, dated 8tii March, 1960 s the Director 
General, Posts and Telegraphs, hereby specifies the 
idth November, 1972, as the date on which the Measur- 
ed Rate System will be introduced in Bharananganam 
excha lge connected with Palai Telephone System, 
Kerala Circle. 

[No. 5-38/72-PHB(17)-l 
A. S. VOHRA, 

Assistant Director General (PHB). 

feeHt, 13 RTE5CC 1972 

2852. — srr^r rrtt 627, 
tVrpfT 8 RTT 1960 STTT HPT TV 'VTTcfPT cTR fdW, 
1951 % fffOT 434 % III % VTT (vr) % 5PTR1T 
iglTMTlT % TVTVHT TRlTH %^T if TTtf 

^ Tst ff feriTi 1 6- 1 1-72 
r mrrfiref srirrat htv ^ fw 1 1 

[To 5-38/72- -'fl - o vt o (17)] 

V° 1TR o effect, 
(TtoiT^o^o) I 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the lit h October 1972 

S.O. 2853. — IDRA/6/16. — In exercise of the powers 
conferred by Section 6 of the Industries (Development 
and Regulation) Act, 1951, read with rules 2, 4 and 5 
of the Development Councils (Procedural) Rules 1952. 
the Central Government hereby appoints, for a period 
of two years with effect from the date of this Order. 


the following persons to be members of the Develop- 
ment Council for the scheduled Industries engaged in 
the manufacture and production of Automobiles, Auto- 
mobile Ancillary Industries, Transport Vehicle Indus- 
tries. Tractors, Earth moving Equipment and 
Internal Combustion Engines in* place of members 
and Internal Combustion Engines in place of members 
appointed under the Government of India in the late 
Ministry of Industrial Development and Company 
Affairs (Department of Industrial Development) Order 
No. S.O. 3243-IDRA/6/16. dated the 10th September, 
1970, as amended from time to time, whose tenure of 
office has expired by efflux of time or otherwise: — 


Development Council for Automobiles, Automobile 
Ancillary Industries, Transport Vehicles Indus- 
tries, Tractors and Earth Moving Equipment 
and Internal Combustion Engines. 


Chairman. 


1. Shn T. S. Krishna, Chairman — M/s. TVS — 

Lucas Ltd., 37, Mount Road, Madras-6. 

2. Shri K. S. Ramaswami, General Manager, M/s. 

Ashok Ley .and Ltd., Ennore, Madras. 

3. Shri J. S. Talaulicar, Chief Executive, M/s. 

Tata Engineering and Locomotive Co., Ltd., 
24, Bruce Street, Fort, Bombay. 

4. Shn K. V. Sardesai. Chief Executive (Jeep Divi- 

sion/, M/s. Mahindra and Mahinara Ltd., Gate- 
way Building, Ap.oilo Bunder, Bombay-1. 

5. Shri N. K. Firodia, Chairman, M/s. Bajaj Tempo 

Ltd., Chinenwad, Poona. 

6. Shri S. L. Bhatter, President, M/s. Hindustan 

Motors Ltd., P.O. Uttarpara, Distt. Hooghly, 
West Bengal. 

7. Shn M. S. Shastri, Executive Director, M/s. 

Automobile Products of India Ltd., Bombay. 

8. Sn,i B. K. Sule, Executive Director, International 

Tractors Ltd., C/o. M/s. Mahindra and Mahm- 
dra Ltd., Gateway Building, Apollo Bunder, 
Bombay. 

9. Shri V. T. Velu, Chairman, M/s. V.S.T. Tillers 

Ltd., 22, Mahatma Gandhi Road, Bangalore-I. 

10. Shri C. S. Kirioskar, Managing Director, M/s 

Kirloskar Cummins Ltd., Kotnrud, Poona-1. 

11. Maj. Genl. O. M. Mani, Managing Director, M/s 

Bharat Earthmovers Ltd.,' Kolar Gold Fields! 
Mysore. (Government undertaking). 

12. Smt. Sharayu A. Daftary, M/s. Standard Radia- 

tors Ltd., Bombay. 

13. Dr. Pranial Patel, Chairman. M/s. Malleable 

Iron and Steel Castings Co. Pvt., Ltd., Mathur- 
das Mills Compound. Lower Parel, Bombay. 

14. Shri M. K. Jhawar, Managing Director, M/ s 

Usha Automobile and Engg., Pvt., Ltd H- 
Princep Street, Calcutta-13. 


Sec. 3{ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4293 


15. Shri Kundan Lai, Secretary General, All India 
Motor Union Congress, lb'- A, Asaf Ah Road, 
New Delhi. 

16. Shri N. Mahalingam, Chairman, Anamalai Bus 
Transports Ltd., (A.B.T.), Pollachi, Coimba- 
tore Distt., Tamil Nadu. 


RSRST 

1. RtftotTRo ftq- 

RiSRST — RRR Tr°Trornro--^f 3 r fufilTT, 
37 , RTR^ftT, R 3 TR — 6 


17. Shri K. N. Talwar, President, Federation of 

Auto-Dealers’ Association, 534, Vallabh Bhai 
Patel Road, Bombay-7. 

18. Shri G. S. Sethi, President, Federation of A11 

India Auto Spare Parts Dealers’ Association, 
3620, Netaji Subhas Marg, New Delhi-6. 

19. Shri R. S. Boga, General Manager (Administra- 

tion), CEAT Tyres of India Ltd., Bhandup, 
Bombay-78. 

20. Shri M. W. Pradhan, General Manager, BEST, 

Bombay. 

21. Shri Y. S. Venkateswaran, Deputy Director 

General, Indian Standards Institute, Manak 
Bhawan, 9, Bahadur Shah Jafar Marg, New 
Delhi. 

22. Shri K. T v ’ ■ ' " ’ ' lent Commis- 
sioner, » Nirman Bha- 

wan, New Delhi. 

23. Dr. S- P. Luthra, Director, Indian Institute of 
Technology, 29-Haus Khas, New Delhi. 

Secretary 

Shri B.S.V. Rao, Development Officer (Auto.), — 
D.G.T.D. Udyog Bhawan, New Delhi-11. 


2 . «ft %oRR 0 TTHTPUff, 

RRR Rt#«R fRfRRR, ^ 5 TT, 
RTTR 


3 . 


Nt R °T(R 0 ! "fl '4, 

TOT RHTR RTRT, 

RRR Z ZT \ 


RRRRt R’ifHd-s, 

24, WRSjte, 


4 . sfr %ocfro RR^Rif, 

RSRRfRHTvRT (RtRfRRtaR), 
RRR thir Rilui"?, 
R 2 R RRFTf 3 FTTI, 

RRSff-l 

S3 


[No. 1 ( 111 )/ 72 -A.E.I. (I) . ] 
V. P. GUPTA, Under Secy. 
TffTfrfTT fRTTR H 3 T 5 PT 

Rf fodft, 1 1 mZZR 1972 

Rr° 5 TTo 2853 . — *nf SlTTty 6/ 1 6 — f^lW RfTRR 
(sfsptrFcFRi) fRRR, 1952 % fRRR 2 , 4 ?fk 5 % RTR 
TfecT RRtR (fRTRR frfRRRR) RfsrfRRR, 1951 4 ?f 
srm 6 5 TU RRtT NfeTf TT WEI TTR fir, TF 3 TR OT 7 

RTrtRtaTW snjRRt yrtr, qffRfR 

TFT . 3 H>r, TFTtf RRRfRR RRW; sfk SFRTZR Tp 5 Rt 
% NtT RRTRR R NT ftr RRF[fRR RSfFff % fRR 

frw qfiTT % % rr ir fR*RfR%cr srfRRRlr 4ft 

RTTR RTRRT % RRJR fRTRR sffT TRRRt RTR 

RRTRR (NUfrfRT fRTTR fRRTR) % RRR-RRR RT RRT- 
RsfrfsrdRT^snio^roTro 324 3 -Rrf °ft °rit 0 / 6/ 1 6 
R TER 10 fRRPTT, 19 70 % RRtR fRRTR YR RRuff 
fRRTt RRTRfy RRR % Rfd RFt R R! RRTRT RRiFT ft 
% FR 7 R IT RR # RTTEi R Rt RR Rf RRfR % fdOr 

TTTTTU fRRRR RTRt | : — 

RTRtRtRTfR, RfarTRimTr RRTRf YRTR, RffRfR 
TFT RSltR, fdTTl, RR RfRR YTRRT, RRTRfT #T-ff % 
j%0[ fddrrR'qfTTT 


5. *ft tJRo% o PhTtfRRI 
RTR 5 T, 

#R# RRTR Z Pit fufRYT, 
f^RRir, grr 

6. Nt^RotTRo Rf r , 

RSRST, 

RRR f^^lFRFT RlYR f%fRYR, 

TTdFiT RtTRTTTT, fTTRT gRdt, 

RfpRRtTRTR 

7. sf) - TFRoRRo ?TTdt, 

TTRRFT^ fR^FRT, 

RRR RtRTdR RTF #RRI ftrflTdT, 

RTdf 

8. #tTRoR,T<> 

IR^FIRT, 

fYTRRRR TdTR f^fRYd, 

RFRcT RRR R%T ^ Rf^d MrY? , 

RRR fdfcRR, RRTRt 
RTRf 

S3 

9. RR, RSR 5 T, 

RRR RtoRRo ft fdRR fRfRRR, 

22 , Rf FRTRtsftftd, 




4294 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVJNA 29, 1894 


[Fait II— 


10. feffcTT, 

M7>7, 

11. Jr^R TT^r^fro^o Rcff, 

TTOrfE^TO, 

4e# '*TTCr OTEEft 

c\ 

ipt^m %*■ 'Et^rr, &$t., 

( etttC T TOER) I 

12. ^dY^RTTiTo T'FT'flr, 

ffrm ?£jti 

i 

4 

13. Eto STFETE WEST, 

t*r4 Ef^rnrfsrar srnrnr Eiter ’EifeE 
srrrt^frrfa^, 

upott wr fanr *PwrTOTr, "ft in i^r, 

i 

14. ^ tEr°%° wm, 

SM Id'^TO, 

#?Rr cCTT RfafErfaiw WH^ror, 
srr^td fa fad*, 

1 4-^1 Tfte, 

H.'-r+^ir — 13 i 

is. rV |eee etr, 

5iT?r ^ r ,j •s m" ' iftTr eIere rEte, 

1 '.- 1 -r 7 Eh! EfT ffT, E^ fcefT l 

1 6- ^ft H[E o E^EE 
WOTST, 

to ^tTrft^ farfErn (qo^-ofto ) , 
tf^f^ft sffirp^dT fTOT, 
mfETOE i 

17. «ff %ott7o d'-'i^K, 

WOT5T, 

^TT" ifni ET^ffa# ^flfa^E, 

5 3 4, EcNE ETf ddE TtE, 

I 

18. «fr ^ftorTTTo ^r!5t, 

wsna, 

«5^WT 5TO EtH #3ET ^T TI3E ^HT 
ir^ftfEOTH, 

3620 ^TT^ETTEET. 

^fT^ft-6 I 


1 9. ’rffsnroiTsro stEtt, 
fE^ETOrE (wife), 5 

ETT zfi*V\ fafEEE, EETO. 
ifE£-78*l' 

20. «fV fnfo^^o P JTBTE, 
flT^T r SPBEET ETE, 

•! 

21. eftETfotT^o^^rET, 

TOE^tIe^TO, 
iftan ^f&OTs:,;; 

ETTO EEE, 

9. EfP^Wf TOT ET*f , 

Effort I 

22. tplo E^TET, 
frowETfrer, 
ttjotEt, 

fanfa eto, E~f fa^ft i 

23. Wo tjfl'o'fto *JETT, 

Wto, 

eP’TE'T ^e£l d^d ETE> 

2 9. iffE ?3TE, E^ I 

EfEE 

«ft iftolTtfolfto TIE, 
fTOiHEfrord (H'dt), 
tfr°hfr 0 £t°ft° E«ftE eto, 

Etfroft-u i 

[To l(21l)/72-l[of?oEf$°l)J 

'fto'fro *pjl, 

STE EfTO I 

DEPARTMENT OF COMPANY AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 11th October 1972 

S.O. 2854. — In pursuance of sub-section (3) of Section 
26 of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices 
Act, 1969 (54 of 1969), the Central Government hereby 
notifies the cancellation of the registration of: — 

(1) M/s, Steel and Allied Products Limited (Certi- 
ficate of registration No. 697/1971 dated the 
22nd February, 1971). 

(2) M/s. Anglo American Marine Company Limit- 
ed (Certificate of registration No. 851/72 dated 
the 31st May, 1972). 

under the said Act. 

[No. F. 22 /31/72-M. II.; 
S- BALA RAMAN, Under Secy 



Sec. 3(ii)] 


THE OAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4395 


amspft Tpf faWPT 
Tf 1 1 TOR, 19 7 2 

t osnr<> 2854. — wrfimr ^iirr 

ff*rr *rftrf?m 1969 ( 1969 471 54) # rut 26 ^ 
3 T-tmr ( 3) % ft %t#ir hcr^itt sr 

WftrPm % 't/Fimff 47T 5T%- 

g;%?r WRfr ^ : — 

( 1 ) ft° tTnrs- srraw ftr°, 

(ftjfHoff JTFTnr T* fto 697/1971 

famr 22 'T» _ <ar 6 r, 1 97 1 ) 

( 2 ) fto srftf/drd ftwi ^0 %o. 

(T3ff4n7n 1 WM Tar ft° 851/72 ^47 
31 Rf, 1972) 

[Wo 22/31/72 -ITJTo (2)J 
»^r o trur tffftd 1 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND REHABILITATION 
(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 10 th October 1972 

S.O. 2856. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby publishes the following awai’d of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal at Calcutta, 
in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the management of Messrs S. A. Aziz and 
Company, Calcutta and their workmen , which was 
received by the Central Government on the 4th Octo- 
ber, 1972. 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL AT CALCUTTA 
Reference No. Ill of 1971 

Parties: 

Employers in relation to the management of 
Messrs S. A. Aziz and Company, Calcutta, 

And 

Their workmen. 

Present: 

Sri S, N. Bagchi — Presiding Officer. 

Appearances : 

On behalf of Employers — Sri R. N. Chatterjee, 

Manager, 

On behalf of Workmen — Sri P. Sen, General Sec- 
retary, Dock Mazdoor Union, 

IState; West Bengal Industry: Port *> Dock 


AWARD 

By Order No. L-32011/12/71-P&D, dated 28th Octo- 
ber, 1971, the Government of India, in the Ministry 
of Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment), referred the following industrial 
dispute existing between the employers in relation to 
the management of Messrs S.A. Aziz and Company, 
Calcutta and their workmen, to this Tribunal, for 
adjudication, namely: 

“Whether the demand for employment of Shri S. 
Mandal Warsi as Watchman Supervisor under 
Messrs S. A. Aziz and Company, Calcutta is 
justified? If so, to what relief, is the workman 
entitled?” 

2. To-day when the case was called on for hearing, 
the management and the union representing the work- 
man filed a memorandum of compromise duly signed 
by the Manager of the management and the General 
Secretary of the union concerned as well as by the 
workman concerned and stated that the parties have 
settled the dispute amicably. The terms of compro- 
mise appear to be fair, equitable and beneficial to the 
workman. The terms are, therefore, recorded and an 
award is rendered in terms of the compromise petition 
which shall form part of the award. 

(Sd.) S. N, Bagchi, 

Dated, 29 th Sept. 1072. Presiding Officer. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUS- 
TRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA 
Reference No. Ill of 1971 

In the matter of an Industrial dispute between th* 
management of M/s. S. A. Aziz & Co,, 

And 

Workman Sri S. Mondal Warshj, 

The humble joint petition of compromise of the 
above named parties most respectfully 
SHEWETH : 

(1) That without prejudice to their respective 
merits and contentions, the parties have 
amicably settled their dispute and differences 
which gave rise to the instant reference on 
the following terms: 

(A) That the employer company will engage 
Sri S. Mondal Warshi as Watchman Super- 
visor as and when working ships are 
available. 

(B) That the workman will not press for the 
back wages and shall have no other claim 
against the Company for the period of the 
reference. 

In the circumstances the parties pray that the 
Hon’ble Tribunal may be pleased to pass an award In 
terms of the above compromise and treating this joint 
petition as a part of the award. 

And for this act of kindness the petitioners aa in 
duty bound shall ever pray. 

S. Mondal Warshi Ramnahayan Chatterjee, 

Concerned Workman. Manager, 

Witness F, Sen. 

Dated, September 29, 1972 

[No. L-3201 1/1 2/72- P&D, ] 
V. SANKARALINGAM, Under Secy. 



[Part II— 


4296 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 


New Delhi, the 10th October 1972 


S.O. 2856, — In pursuance of section 17 of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 2) , 
Dhanbad in the industrial dispute between the em- 
ployers in relation to the management of Pyrites, 
Phosphates and Chemicals Limited, Post _ Office 
Amjhore, District Shahabad (Bihar) and their work- 
men, which was received by the Central Government 
on the 4th October, 1972. 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUS- 
TRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO. 2) AT DHANBAD 

Present: 

Shri Nandagiri Venkata Rao, Presiding Officer. 
Reference No. 49 op 1971 

In the matter of an industrial dispute under S. 10(2) 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

Parties : 

Employers in relation to Pyrites Phosphates and 
Cherr.mr!- T.im'trd. Post Office Amjhore, Dis- 
trict S! v.h: bad ■' Bihar). 

And 

Their workmen. 

Appearances : 

On behalf of the employers — Shri S. S. Mukherjee, 
Advocate. 

On behalf of the workmen — None. 

State: Bihar. Industry: Chemical. 

Dhanbad, 30 th September 1972 
AWARD 


On the joint application of the employers in relation 
to Pyrites. Phosphates and Chemicals Limited, Post 
Office Amjhore District Shahabad and their workmen 
represented by Rashtriya Pyrites Mazdoor Sangh, 
Amjhore, and on being satisfied that the said Rash- 
triva Pyrites Mazdoor Sangh represents the majority 
of the said workmen, the Central Government in exer- 
chi of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of Sec- 
tion 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 referred the 
industrial dispute existing between the parties, men- 
tioned ( n the schedule for adjudication to this Tribunal 
constituted under S.7A of the said Act by its order No. 
L-290J1/1/71-LR.IV. The schedule is reproduced 
below: — 

SCHEDULE 

“Whether the action of the management of Pyrites, 
Phosp’mtes and Chemicals Limited/ Post 
Office Amjhore, District Shahabad (Bihar), 
laving off the following twenty-four 
’’ tie car and Loader Operators from 17th 
October, 1970 to 7th December. 1970 is justi- 


fied and legal; and if not to what relief the 
laid-off workmen are entitled? 


s. 

No. 

Form 

B No. 

Nam e 

Designation 

I 

2288 

Shri 

Morilal Choudhry 

Loader Operator 

2 

2350 


SaguniChoudhry 

Do. 

3 

2153 


Bihari Singh 

S.Car/L. Operator 

4 

2377 


RamKeshwar Singh 

II 

Dhup Narain Singh 

Ls.O.Car Operator 

5 

2168 


L. Operator 

6 

2054 


Halim Mian 

S.Car Operator 

7 

2283 


Nagina Singh 

L. Operato 

8 

2136 


Rajdew Ram No. II 

S.Car Operator 

9 

2269 


Bishwanath Yadav-II L. Operator 

10 

2212 


Mohan Chaudhary 

S.Car Operator 

II 

2085 

3 3 

Kadar Singh 

S.Car Operator 

12 

2219 

33 

Raghun i Chaud hary 1 1 

S.Car Operator 

13 

2427 

33 

Rahim Khan 

L. Operator 

14 

2031 

33 

Md. Islam 

S.Car Operator 

15 

2021 

33 

Mukgdeo Singh 

S.Car Operator 

16 

2095 

33 

Ram Charitar Singh 

L. Operator 

17 

2169 

33 

BihsUn Choudhary 

L. Operator 

18 

2230 

33 

Ram CharitarSingh 

Do. 

19 

2473 

33 

Niaz Ahammad 

S. Cal. Operator 

20 

2783 

33 

S.P. Chaura s a 

Do. 

21 

3282 

33 

Satyanarayan Pandey 

Do. 

22 

2799 

33 

A.N.G. Nair 

Do 

23 

2735 

33 

Bishe s hwar Singh . 

Do 

24 

2268 

33 

Ram Keshwar Chou- 
dhry 

S.Car Operator 


2. The employers as well as the workmen filed their 
statement of demands. After filing their written state- 
ment through Shri R. K. Jha, Vice President, Rash- 
triya Pyrites Mazdoor Sangh on 22nd October 1971, 
the workmen chose to remain absent inspit^ of 
adjourning the case on five hearings. Hence, tfie case 
had to proceed in accordance with Rule 22 of the In- 
dustrial Disputes (Central) Rules, 1957. Arguments 
were heard in the case on 7th June 1972 and tyjftoday 
also no one appeared for the workmen. The employers 
were represented by Shri S. S. Mukherjee, Advocate 
and on their behalf a witness was examined apd Exts. 
Ml to M4 were marked. The dispute referred, to is, -in 
respect of the employers laying off 24 shuttlecar and 
loader operators with effect from 17th October 1970. 
According to the employers the management had de- 
ployed shuttle car and loaders for the drivage of their 
roadways, 6 working sets being in use and 3 kept as 
spares, during the course of working it was found 
that the geological conditions did not permit the equip- 
ment for proper and suitable use, and as such 
shuttlecar and loaders could not be used to their full 
capacity, the board of directors appointed a technical 
committee in order to achieve the aim of fast driv- 
age and the committee recommended to limit the use 
of the equipment and as such the use of shuttlecars 
and loaders was limited to 2 working sets and J^e re- 
maining equipment was ordered to be taken out of 
the mine temporarily, the management f6r ! this 
reason had to lay off the 24 shuttlecar and' -loarlor 
operators under S. 25(C) of the Industrial Di smites 
Act. 1.947 and they were paid lay off compensation as 
per ihe Act and, therefore the lay off of the 24.., work- 
men for 41 days from 17th October 197Q.was legal and 
justified. The workmen filed their statement pleading 
that the management had erred in two aspects ,pf the 
dispute — (11 in laying off workmen for iniiiffieient 
grounds and (2) in choosing the names of the onera- 
tors for laying off from duty. According to the,work- 
pien the management, if at all they had to lay off some 



&EC. 3(*$] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER. 21, 19?2/ASVINA 29, 1894. 


4297 - 


workmen, they ought to have done in accordance 
wim Section 2 oG oi the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
Dy adopting tne principle of “hrst come last go”. 
Thus, according to me worKmen tne laying off of the 
24 aifected worKmen was illegal and unjustified. Ext. 
Ml is tne extract irom the minutes o± the board ot 
directors of the employers held on 11th April 1968, 
constituting tne technical advisory Committee to 
examine me project report for production of 1. 0/O.o 
million tonne of pyrites per annum. Ext. M2 is the 
extract from the recommendations of the technical 
advisory committee fixing tne size of trunk road at 
approximately 3.70mx2.75 m. Ext. M3 is the office 
order from tne office of Mines Manager and dated loth 
October 1970 stating that the use ox shuttlecars and 
loaders in the mining project having been restricted 
to 2 sets, the 24 affected workmen are laid off with 
effect from 17th October 1970. Ext. M4 is the covering 
letter from the Chief Mining Engineer dated 22nd 
October 1970 to the Regional Labour Commissioner 
(C) Dhanbad enclosing therewith the information of 
lay off. MW.l is the under manager of the employers 
since May, 1967. It is in his evidence that there were 
a total of 9 sets of shuttlecar and loaders of which 6 
were working sets and 3 stand by, that since the 
time he joined the employers he found that the sets 
could not be properly used owing to geological dis- 
turbances and roof trouble, that in order to implement 
the recommendation of the technical advisory com- 
mittee the employers had to limit the operation to 2 
working sets and that in the result the 24 affected 
workmen were laid off with effect from 17th October 
1970. The definition of “lay off” is to be found in 
S. (kkk) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 and it 
is asMollowing: — 

' ‘lay off (with its grammatical variations and 
cognate expressions) means the failure, re- 
fusal or inability of an employer on account 
of shortage of coal, power or raw material^, 
or the accumulation of stocks or the break-' 
down of machinery or for any other reason, to 
give employment to a workman whose ifame 
is borne on the muster rolls of his industrial 
establishment and who has not been re- 
trenched.” 

It emerges from the definition that the failure on 
the part of the employer to give employment to a 
workman for any reason is a “lay off”. Of course 
“any reason” should be analogous to shortage of coal 
etc. mentioned in the definition. I consider that the 
geological conditions and the roof trouble mentioned 
by MW.l are analogous to the reasons mentioned in 
the definition. Hence, the lay off of the affected work- 
men could not be called illegal or unjustified. The 
second ground pleaded by the workmen also has no 
substance, because S.25G applies to retrenchment and 
not to lay off. Hence, there is no force in either of 
the grounds pleaded by the workmen. 

3. I, therefore, find that the action of the manage- 
ment of Pyrites, Phosphates and Chemicals Limited, 
Post Office Amjhore, District Shahabad (Bihar) in 
laying off the twenty-four shuttle car and loader 
ooergtors from 17th October, 1970 to 7th December, 
1970 was justified and legal and, consequently, they 
are not entitled to any relief. The award is made 
accordingly and submitted under S.15 of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947. 


(Sd.) N. Venkata Rao. 


Presiding Officer, 
Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal 
(No. 2) Dhanbad. 
[No. L.29011/1/71-LR. TV.] 


S.O.2857. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Gov- ■ 
ernment nereby publishes tne following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal Dibrugarh in the Industrial dis- 
pute between the employers in relation to tne man- 
agement of Messrs Assam Oil Company Limited, 
Digboi and their workmen, which was received by 
the Central Government on the 29th September, 1972. 


IN THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL, ASSAM AT DIBRUGARH 

Present: 

Shri G. N. Borah, M.A., LL.B., Barrister-at-law, 
Presiding Officer, Central Government Indus- 
trial Tribunal, Assam, Dibrugarh. 

In the matter of an industrial dispute between: — 

The Management of M/S. Assam Oil Company 
Limited, Post Officer Digboi, Assam. 

And 

Their workmen represented by Assam Oil Com- 
pany Labbur Union, Digboi. 

Reference No. Central 5 t)F 1968. 

Appearances : 

For the Management . — Shri J. K. Ghose, Advocate, 

For the Union . — Shri A. B. Roy, Advocate. 

AWARD 

The Government of India, Ministry of Labour Emp- 
loyment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment) by its Order No. 25/18/67-LR.i dated 
1st March, 1968 was pleased to refer an industrial dis- 
pute existing between the management of Messrs. 
Assam Oil Company Limited, Digboi, and their work- 
men represented by Assam Oil Company Labour Union 
Dgboi, to my predecessor Shri S. C. Barua, the tnen 
Presiding Officer, Industrial Tribunal, Dibrugarh, under 
section 10(1) (d) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, 
as amended, for adjudication of the following issue: — 

Whether the dismissal of Shri K. T. Das, Registered 
No. 26154 with effect from the 13th December, 
1966 by the management of Messis. Assam Oil 
Company Limited, Digboi, is justified, and if 
not, to what relief is he entitled? 

On receipt of this Notification, this reference was 
duly registered and notice was issued to the parties to 
file their written statements and in response to this 
notice the parties filed their Written Statements. The 
management also filed their Additional Written State- 
ment. Thereafter, my predecessor Shri S. C. Barua 
retired from service and I was appointed in his posi- 
tion, when on 23rd June, 1970 I received a petition 
from the Union on behalf of the workman praying for 
expeditious hearing of this case. The Government was 
thereafter moved to insert my name in the order of 
reference in place of Shri S. C. Barua to enable me 
to entertain this reference. The Central Government 
accordingly by their Notification No. 25(13)/67-LRI 
(LR IV) dated 27th November, 1970 was pleased to 
appoint me as the Presiding Officer for purpose of this 
reference in place of Shri S. C. Barua and proceed 
with the case from the stage at which it is transferred 
and dispose of the same according to law. As the case 
was ready by now, it was fixed for 
first time on 22nd May, 1971 and on 
dates. In the course of hearing, the management exa- 
mined 3 (three) witnesses and proved a? many as 11 
(eleven) documents. The Union likewise examined 
two witnesses but proved no documents. 



4298 


fHE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21. 1972/ASVlNA 29, 1894 


[Piutrll 


The case for the management In short is that the 
affected workman was on duty at the Compressor Sta- 
tion No, 2 and during his duty hours it was noticed 
that certain amount of mercury was stolen from this 
station by cutting a tube of a meter and the affected 
workman was consequently chargesheeted for this 
offence and after a due enquiry he was dismissed from 
service. 

At the outset, the learned Counsel for the manage- 
ment submitted that this reference is not maintainable 
as no industrial dispute existed between the parties 
as mentioned in the order of reference. It will be 
noticed that the order of reference states— the manage- 
ment of M/s. Assam Oil Company Limited Digboi, 
vs. Their workmen represented by Assam Oil Com- 
pany Labour Union, Digboi. and no industrial dispute 
existed as such. Section 2 A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act (hereinafter called ‘the Act’) is not attracted in 
this case in so far as the Union raised no dispute with 
the management before this reference was made. The 
Counsel submits that this point was duly raised by 
the management in their Written Statement and there 
has been no denial of this point from the Union. The 
Union’s Witness No, 2 also admits in his statement 
that they raised a dispute on behalf of the workman 
for the first time before the Government and not be- 
fore the management. The Management’s Witness No. 
3 also makes the same statement. The learned Counsel 
submits that Section 2 A of the Act is not relevant in 
this case. In support of this case, the Counsel cites 
the following rulings: — 

1. Sindhu Re-settlement Corporation Limited us. 

Industrial Tribunal of Gujarat and others — 
reported in 1968, FLR, page 307. 

2. Fedders Lloyd Corporation (Private) Limited. 

us. Lt. Governor, Delhi through Under Secy., 
(Labour), Delhi and others.— reported In 1970, 
A.I.R, Delhi, page 60. 

These objections raised by the management, in my 
opinion, have no force. After the incorporation of 
Section 2A of the Act, the restrictions on individual 
to raise ao Industrial dispute is withdrawn and the 
Union can sponsor the cause of the individual at any 
stage. In this case, the affected workman consistently 
raised a dispute against the management over his dis- 
missal and the Union stepped in to spouse the cause 
of this workman only before the Government, The 
reasons for delay by the Union in sponsoring the cause 
of the workman have been sufficiently expressed by 
the Union Secretary Union witness No. 2 in his deposi- 
tion. In the circumstance, in my opinion, this refer- 
ence cannot be considered as bad merely because the 
union raised rio dispute before the management first 
and raised the dispute on behalf of the workman for the 
first time before the Government. The .Supreme 
Court’s case of 'The Bombay Union of Journalists’ vs. 
The ‘Hindu’, Bombay, reported in 1961, L.L.J., Volume 
II, page 436, lends support to this view even before 
the promulgation of Section 2A of the Act. Further, 
It must also be remembered that this reference is made 
under section 10(1) (d) of the Act. Under this sec- 
tion, all the Government has to see is that an indus- 
trial dispute does exist or apprehended at the material 
time and since it is not denied bv the parties that the 
dispute did exist at the time of the reference the mere 
fact that the Union did not sponsor the cause of the 
workman at the earlier stage is immaterial. The cases 
cited by the learned Counsel for the management 
(supra) have no bearing on the present case. In those 
cases, the affected workman made no representation 
before the management but only to his Union and the 
Union also made no representation to the management 
before approaching the Government for referring the 
matter for adjudication. In this view of the matter, 
the objections raised bv the management/ regarding 
the maintainability of this reference is overruled, 

Now to come to the merits of the reference. It is 
a settled law that the Tribunal ought to give an award 


in favour of the management if the domestic enquiry 
proceedings were conducted in a fair and proper 
manner and the management have been able to prove 
their case against the affected workman in such a 
tair proceedings. 

It is noticed that the Union have assailed the domes- 
tic enquiry proceedings as defective as the same was 
conducted in distinct violation of the principles of 
natural justice. The Union alleged that persistent re- 
quest was made by the affected workman for a repre- 
sentation of his choice before the domestic enquiry. 
But this request was denied to him and he was thereby 
greatly prejudiced as he has no education and did 
not follow the full impact of the proceedings. The 
management have allowed the representation to their 
workmen in almost all cases in the past and there was 
no reason why representation should have been denied 
to this workman. The Counsel for the workman next 
submits that the enquiry was held in a frightful hurry 
and no time was given to the workman to prepare 
his defence. It will be also recalled that the enquiry 
was held on two different dates. The workman was 
not suspended from work and he was asked to appear 
in the enquiry almost immediately the day after he 
was chargesheeted. Then again, the workman thought 
that the enquiry had concluded on the first day but 
he was again called for the enquiry on 25th November, 
1966 right from his duty without* any notice. Nothing 
happened on this date for the management to continue 
the enquiry as no order sheet was maintained in this 
enquiry. The Counsel submits that the Opposite Party 
had no mind to attend this enquiry which was con- 
ducted in utter disregard of the principles of natural 
justice. He attended the same lest he be again charged 
of Insubordination. The Counsel then submits that 
the workman was not allowed to adduce his own evi- 
dence. It is mentioned in the enquiry proceedings, 
Exhibit- 2, that one Shri M. L. Paul was examined 
on behalf of the Union but the Counsel submits the 
fact Is that Shri Paul was never cited by the workman 
as his witness, The Counsel finally submits that the 
findings of the enquiry proceedings are perverse as the 
case against the workman has never been proved by 
the management at the domestic enquiry- The work- 
man was charged of negligence of his duties arid" this 
charge has not been proved. It was the consistent 
defence of the workman that the meter which was 
tempered with by an outsider was not in his charge 
and the management could not prove that it was the 
duty of this workman to attend to this meter also. 
Since no duties was cast on the workman, he cannot 
be held guilty of negligence. As such, the findings 
of the enquiring officer that he (the workman) is 
guilty of negligence of his duties is entirely perverse. 
The learned Counsel further states that the enquiry 
was conducted with the very idea to prosecute the 
workman. The management state that with the cut- 
ting of the tube of the meter there was a hissing sound 
of escaping gas from the meter which ought to have 
been heard by the workman and inspite of this sound 
the workman failed to report the fact to his immediate 
superior Shri P. K. Barua immediately after the occur - 
ance. Shri P. K. Barua who arrived at 6.55 A.M. at 
the Station said that he heard the hissing sound of 
escaping gas, whereas the another Company’s witness 
Shri P. L. Dey said that he arrived at the Station at 
the same time i.e. at. 6.30 A.M. and heard no hissing 
sound of escaping gas from the cut meter. Thus, there 
was contradiction in the statements made by these 
two witnesses and the Counsel submits that in order to 
make the workman guilty of the offence Mr, Malik 
was introduced on 25th November, 1966. He is an 
officer of another department of the Company and not 
directly superior to the affected workman. He said 
in his deposition made before the enquiring officer 
that he came to the Compressor Station at 8 A.M. and 
heard the hissing sound. The Counsel submits that 
all these go to show 'that aUhouah the evidence of 
the Company’s witness Shri P, L. Dev and Shri M. L. 
Paul (who was not cited by the workman as his Wit- 




Sec. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29. 1894 


4^99 


pcssj were in favour of the affected workman yet the 
enquiring officer sought to find his guilty and he was 
therefore biased against the workman. 

In reply to these arguments, the learned Counsel for 
the management stales that the uil'ected workman has 
been charged only of negligence which is a misconduel 
under the Standing Orders of the Company and this 
charge is amply proved against the workman in the 
enquiry. It cannot be denied that the affected worK- 
inan was in charge of the Compressor Station and it 
was his duty to report to his superior anything thut 
may go wrong m that station. Since he failed to 
report this tempering of the meter in time to his 
superior he must be held guilty of this offence of 
negligence. There is nothing wrong on the part of 
the management to hold the enquiry on two different 
dales as there is nothing to show in the enquiry pro- 
ceedings that it was concluded on the first day and 
as suen the evidence of Mr. Malik is valid. Besides, 
the Counsel submits, that the enquiry proceedings 
were conducted in a fair and proper manner and that 
there has not been any violation of the principles of 
natural justice and when the findings are not perverse 
the Tribune* ought to givo its approval to the dismis- 
sal order of the management without going through 
the evidences recorded before it. As regards represen- 
• ation, the Counsel submits that the right of represen- 
tation i K not inherent in the principles of natural 
justice. Further, the Standing Orders of the Company 
do not also provide for such representation. It is true 
that the Company have allowed representation in 
some cases but thin cannot be taken as 0 
practice as there are also a number of cases in which 
fhe Company denied representation to the workmen 
as will be evident from Exhibit-10. In support of these 
contentions, the learned Counsel cites the following 
eases: — 

1. Sur Enamel and Stamping Works Limited, vs 

Their Workmen.— reported in 1963, A.I.R.. 

S.C., page 1914. 

2. Kulindy (N.) and others vs. Tata Locomotive and 

F.ngg. Company., .Jamshedpur. — reported In 

I960. L.L.J., Volume II, page 228, (a Supreme 

Court case). 

3. Brooke Bond India (Private) Limited, vs. S- 

Subba Raman & another.: — reported In 1961, 

L.L.J.. Volume II, S.C., page 417. 

4. Harinagar Sugar Mills vs. Their Workmen. — 

reported in 1961, L L.J., Volume II, page 611. 

(a Patna High Court case). 

On perusal of EXhibit-l, the Chargesheet, it is noticed 
that the workman was charged on 21st November, 
1966 at 2-60 p.m. and he was asked to appear at the 
enquiry on 22nd November, 1966 at 8 a.m. It is admit- 
ted by the management that the workman was not 
suspended from work and thal he was on duty till 
10 f.m. on 21st November, 1968. Thus 
it is clear that the workman was not 
given any chance to prepare his defence. Then again, 
it is noticed that the workman did not sign the charge- 
sheet, Exhibit- 1, in token of his acceptance. Further, 
it is also noticed that at the enquiry on 22nd November 
1966 the workman fervently requested the manage- 
ment that he may be allowed to be represented by a 
oqpion of bis choice. But this was denied to him. It 
Is not understood why was there such frantic hurry on 
i.he part of the manadem* 1 ' 1 to hold the enquiry. If 
the offence committed by the workman was so severe 
ind henious as that the prc_ r proceedure would have 
n"en 1o suspend the workman from service. Issue a 
’hsrgesheet on him and hi>*d an enquiry after giving 
dim adequate time to prepare his (workman) defence 
it is true that the Standing Orders of the Company 
toes not provide for any representation of the work- 
nan But the management do not deny the fact that 
n many cases representatives of his own choice wort 
allowed to the workmen while in other cases it was 
-efused as per Exhibit-10. It is not known under 


what principles the Company allows or refuses the 
representaion to the workmen. But it is certain that 
this matter of representation cannot be left to the 
baked discretion of the management. When tne 
management have themselves admitted in the course 
of hearing that they in some cases allowed represen- 
tation to the workmen of his own choice I see no 
reason why this request for representation should have 
been denied to this workmah. It is noticed that the 
workman at first asked for Shri Biswas, Joint 

Secretary, Assam Oil Company Labour Union, 
to represent him and this was refused on the 
ground that he could not be spared due 

to lire nature of his work. Thereafter, the work- 
man was asked for one Shri N. P. Das, who is 
a School Muster. This request was also denied to inn. 
on the same ground. It is not understood why a 
<ciioot Master could not be spared to represent the 
workman in the enquiry. The management contend,, 
that representation is not important and that denial of 
representation cannot by itself vitiate the proceedings 
unless it can be- snown that it has prejudiced the work- 
man. I feel, the workman has definitely been pre- 

ludiced. There Is evidence before this Tribunal thal 
che affected workman is a scml-literate person and 
since he was not allowed any time whatsoever to pre- 
pare his defence if wa s meet and proper for the 
management at least to allow this workman to be 
represented by a person of his choice. Principles of 
natural justice are not the embodied principles. They 
are just unwritten rules that a man of common intelli- 
gent should follow in conducting an enquiry. These 
principles are basically that the workman ought to be 
given adequate opportunity to depend himself and that 
the whole proceedings are conducted in such a mannei 
that the workman has no grievance whatsoever. In 
the instant case, I am constrained to say that the 
management did not follow even these basic princi- 
ples of natural justice in so far as (1) while keeping 
<l i‘- workman on duty J1 10 pm. on 21st November. 
1966 he was asked to appear for enquiry at 8 a.m. on 
the following day; (2) then again, at the enquiry the 
workman was not allowed to be represented by any 
person of his choice for reasons best known to the 
management although there is a practice in this Com- 
pany that request for representation of a person of 
his choice is usually allowed. Representation was 
denied to the workman even though the management 
fully knew that the workman is a semiliterate person 
not at all conversant with the proceedings; (3) it is 
noticed that no prior information was given to the 
workman that the enquire will continue on 25th No- 
vember. 1966. He was iust asked 1o appear before the 
enquiring officer in the morning of 25th November, 
1966 again on which date Mr. Malik was examined. It 
is rot known why Mr. Malik could rot be examined or 
21st November, 1966. Prom the entire circumstances 
1 hove reasons to believe that Mr. Malik is introduced 
purposely to re-inforce the management’s case against 
the workman. The management’s case Is that the 
meter in ouestion was in the room of which the work- 
man was incharge and during his duty hours some- 
time at 3 i.m. in the morning of 21st November. 1966 
the meter in question was cut and the mercury was 
stolen from the meter. The management’s case further 
Is that when the Suction meter is cut There will be a 
loud hissing sound of gas emitjng from the meter un- 
less the valves are isolated. The sound will be so loud 
that, it is bound to be heard by a person from any 
corner of the room. The workman was therefore guilty 
of gross negligence of duty in so far as he did not 
report of this cut to his superior immediately but only 
at 6 a.m. To substantiate the management’s ease, 
two witnesses were examined by the enquiring 
office'- — one Shri P. I*. Dev and the other is Shri P K. 
Baruah and Shri M. L. Paul alleged to be a witness 
on behalf of the workman (although the workman 
denied of having cited him as his witness). Shri P. D 
Dev in his evidence before the enquiring officer said 
that be come into the Compressor Station on duty to 
read the meter In question at about 6-30 a.m. and he 



[Part (I — 


4300 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/AS.V1NA 29, 1894 


jleara no hissing sound from the cut meter in question. 
He only saw that some mercury split on the ground 
bu f . K. Baruan, on tne other hand, saia that he 
came to the Station on receipt ot a telephone call 
from Snri K. T. Das, the workman, at aboht 6-55 a.m. 
and he heard tlie hissing sound loud enough for any- 
one in the loom to hear and the valves were not 
Isolated then, Sri M. L. Paul, the Oilman on duty on 
that night, also said that he heard no sound emitting 
from the cut meter. Thus on 21st November 1966 over- 
whelming evidence was in favour of the workman. 
Vet the management chose to defer this enquiry and 
examined one more witness wno could speak in their 
favour on another date without even giving a prior 
notice to the workman. Thus, I must say that the 
management held the enquiry in a blatent disregard 
of the principles of natural justice. 

The next question is whether the charge of gross 
negligence of duty is proved against this workman in 
the domestic enquiry. The management’s witness Sn 
P. K. Baruah states in the enquiry in unequivocal 
terms that this workman is not responsible for reading 
of the meters in the bay in which the meter in ques- 
tion was situated. He also says that the affected 
workman is responsible for all the equipments in tne 
room. It is not known how a man can be held res- 
ponsible for a equipment of which he has nothing to 
do. To make a man responsible for break down of an 
equipment it must be specifically proved that he is 
responsible for this equipment and this proof is lack- 
ing in the whole enquiry proceedings. The findings 
of the enquiry proceedings are therefore perverse. 

In the above view of the matter, X am inclined to 
reject the enquiry proceedings as m my opinion it 
was conducted in distinct violation of the principles 
of natural justice and that the findings of these pro- 
ceedings are also perverse. 

The next question is, have the management been 
able to prove their case before this Tribunal? The 
material evidence in this regard are the depositions 
of Shri P. K. Baruah, M.W. No. 1, Mr. Malik, M.W 
No. 2 and also that of the affected workman, U.W 
No. 1. From a perusal of the entire evidences, the 
following facts can be said to be establisfced — (1) that 
the workman was on duty from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. and 
during his duty hours the Suction meter in question 
was cut and certain amount of mercury lying on the 
floor; (2) that there arc two sets of meter in the 
room. One set was on the right hand side and the 
other was on the left hand side about few feet away 
from the entrance door of the Compressor Station, and 
the affected workman is not responsible for reading 
of the set of meters on the right hand side in which 
the cut meter in question was siluuted; (3) that the 
machines in the room were running with good amount 
of noise; (4) that there is another building about 60 ft, 
away from this Compressor Station No. 2 known as 
‘Annexe’ and a person is placed on duty in this 
‘Annexe’ to look after the machineries placed in this 
room. But there is one log book placed on the table 
on which ' the affected workman works and both these 
workmen had to make entries in this log book after 
every hour and this man naturally has to come from 
the ‘Annexe’ to this room where the cut meter is 
(il.uated every hour; (51 that there was also a cool- 
ing water tower about 250 ft. away from the Station 
and it was the duty of the affected workman to go to 
this tower every hour and inspect and adlust the 
valves, if necessary; (61 finally, that there is a door 
very near the right hand side meter and just by the 
side of the door outside the room there is a telephone 
booth open for all employees to phone. 

On these facts, the affected workman’s defence Is 
that since he has nothing to do with the meter on the 
right hand side he had no reason to doubt that one 
of the meters was tempered with. He onlv noticed 
this when he went to telephone at about 5.30 A.M. to 
the Telephone Booth just outsHc the room In course 
of his duty tb find out the position in the field and 


no sooner he saw this cut in the meter he informed 
tins matter to ms immediate superior Shri P. K. 
Baruah, He did not know when this meter was cut 
and there was no fussing sound to attract him. Now, 
how far this affected workman’s defence is tenable in 
the light of the charges levelled against him? It must 
be remembered that the affected workman has not 
been charged of cutting the meter in question nor of 
stealing mercury from it. He is charged only of negli- 
gence of duty. It is not denied by the management 
that the affected workman has been in service with 
this Company for 22 years and that these meters were 
placed in a seperate house outside the Compressor 
Station and a seperate man was put in charge of these 
meters. It was only recently these meters were brought 
to this room. Except for the verbal statement of M.W. 
No. 1 and M.W. No. 2, there is nothing to show in the 
record that the affected workman was responsible for 
working of the meters on the right hand side of the 
room. Even from Exhibit-8, it cannot be gathered that 
the affected workman is responsible for the meters in 
question. This exhibit was issued in 1965 when Lhesa 
meters on the right hand side were not in the room. 
Thus since I have no documentary evidence to prove 
that the affected workman is responsible for all the 
equipments in the room and since the management 
admit that the affected workman had nothing to do 
with the meters on the right hand side, I must take 
that he cannot be ne.d responsible for the break down 
of the meters m question. Further, the affected work- 
man could be charged of the offence of negligence of 
duty if he was the only person who had access to this 
room. But this is not so. I have the evidence that the 
person >n charge of the ‘Annexe’ also came to the 
room foi filling the log book. There is also the evi- 
dence that the affected workman goes away on duty 
from tho Compressor Station every hour to the cooling 
tower leaving the Station without anv attendance to 
the knowledge of (he management. The management 
argues that even though the affected workman was 
nor responsible for the meter in question he should 
have noticed the damage on account of the hissing 
sound of escaping gas emitting from the meter which 
the M.W. No. 1 and M.W. No. 2 state are loud enough 
for anyone to hear from any place of the Compressor 
room even when all the machines in the room are in 
operation. On this, I must turn to the evidence of 
Sri P. L. Dey, a management’s witness to the domestic 
enquiry. He was the first person to enter the Com- 
pressor room after the affected workman reported the 
matter to his superior, the M.W. No, 1, Sri Baruah, as 
ho was not examined before this Tribunal. He cate- 
gorically said that he heard no hissing sound from 
the cut meter as early as 6,30 A.M, The affected work- 
man's alleged witness Sri M. L. Paul, the Oilman, also 
said in the enquiry that it is his duty to go round the 
machinces every hour and oil the machines, when- 
ever necessary, and he found nothing unusual nor did 
he hoar any hissing sound from the meter and he 
noticed the damage in the met 9 r only at 5.30 A.M. 
Thus two of the earliest visitors to the Compressor 
Station said that they heard no hissing sound. There 
is no reason to doubt the statements of these witnesses 
as the enquiry was held so quickly after the incident 
that the affected workman had practically no chance 
to discuss the matter with these witnesses before the 
commencement of the enquiry. Although Sri P. U 
Dey and Sri M, T, Paul were not examined before 
this Tribunal, X feel the Tribunal is entitled to take 
into account these statements made by them in the 
domestic enquiry which forms a part of the record 
of this case although these proceedings are found to 
be defective on other grounds. 

Further I feel there is another aspect to this matter. 
The effected workman did after all report the incldenl 
to his superior Shri P. K. Baruah. He only did ew 
hours late as it will be noticed from the reading of 
the meter. It is not known how the management have 
suffered on account of this late reporting. The mis- 



Sec. 3(ii)j 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 18 94 


43<?r 


chief could not have been prevented even if the 
affected workman reported the matter earlier than he 
did. Thus, from this point of view also, the affected 
workman cannot be held guilty of negligence. 

Thus to sumarise a workman can be held guilty of 
negligence of duty only when it can definitely be 
proved that the equipments were in his charge and 
that the break down of these equipments occurred 
during his duty hours. While the management could 
piove that the equipments were tempered with during 
duty hours of the affected workman they could not 
prove that these equipments were in charge of this 
workman. The affected workman cannot therefore be 
held guilty of negligence of duty. 

In the result, the only issue in this reference is 
answered ns follows: — 

The dismissal of Sri K. T. Das, Regd. No. 26154 
with effect from the 13th December, 1966 by 
the management of Messrs. Assam Oil 
Company Limited, Digboi, is not justified and 
he should therefore be reinstated in his 
service with continuity of service. 

I stive this ‘Award’ on this 23rd day of September. 
1972. at Dibrugarh. 

(Sd.) G. N. Borah, 

Presiding Officer. 

Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal, 
Dibrugarh, Assam. 

[No. 25 (18) /67-LR.IV) .] 
S. S. SAHASRANAMAN, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 7th October 1972 

S.O. 2858. — In exercise of section 17 of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal No. 2, Dhan- 
bad in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the management of West Bokaro Col- 
liery of Messrs West Bokaro Limited, Post Office Gha- 
totand, District Hazaribagh and their workmen; which 
was received by the Central Government on the 30th 
September, 1972. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT 
INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO. 2) 

AT DHANBAD 

Present : 

Shri Nandagiri Venkata Rao, Presiding Officer 
Reference no. 29 of 1971. 

In the matter of an industrial dispute under S. 

(1) (d) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 


Parties : 

Employers in relation to the West Bokaro Col- 
liery of Messrs West Bokaro Limited, Post 
Office Ghatotand, District Hazaribagh. 

AND 


Their workmen. 

Appearances : 

On behalf of the employers — Shri S. S. MUkher- 

jee, Advocate. 

On behalf of the workmen: Shri B. Lai, Advocate. 
State : Bihar. Industry : Coal. 

Dhanbad, 25th September , 1972. 

AWARD 

The Central Government, being of opinion that an 
industrial dispute exists between the employers m 
relation to the West Bokaro Colliery of Messrs West 
Bckaro Limited, Post Office Ghatotand, District Hazari- 
bagh and their workmen, by its order No. 2/187/70- 
LR.II, dated 9th February, 1971 referred to this Tri- 
bunal under Section 10(1) (d) of the Industrial Dis- 
putes Act, 1947 for adjudication the dispute in respect 
of the matters specified in the schedule annexed there- 
to. The schedule is extracted below: — 

Schedule 

‘•Whether the action of the management of the 
West Bokaro Colliery of Messrs West Bokaro 
Limited, Post Office Ghatotand, District Haza- 
ribagh in terminating the services of Shri 
Dharm Nath Singh, Stone Dusting Mazdooi 
was justified? If not to what relief is the 
workman concerned entitled and from what 
date?” 

2. The employers as well as the workmen filed their 
statement of demands. The employers filed their re- 
joinder also to the statement filed by the workmen. 

3. Dharm Nath Singh, the affected workman was a 
Stone Dusting Mazdoor in West Bokaro colliery of 
the employers. He was granted leave from 13-4-1070 
to 29-4-1970, but he did not return to duty within 8 
days of the expiry of the leave so granted and the 
employers terminated his service as a permanent 
workmen. These facts are not in dispute. According 
to the workmen th e affected workman having fallen 
ill applied for extension of his leave on the ground 
of his sickness vide his medical certificate sent to the 
management under the certificate of posting on 25th 
April, 1970, that the management did, not reply to 
the application, that the letter dated 1st June, 1970 
terminating the services of the affected workman was 
issued when he had already reported for his duties, 
that the management has terminated the services of 
the affected workman to victimise him for his trade 
union activities and for his being a member of Koyala 
Shramik Sanghthan and that, as such the action of the 
management was unjustified. According to the em- 
ployers when he failed to return within 8 days of the 
expiry of the leave originally granted to him, the 
affected workman automatically lost lien on his ap- 
pointment and he was kept in badli list as per stand- 
ing order:: of the colliery. The employers denied 
having received any application for extension of 
leave as pleaded by the workmen. They have also 
denied that the affected workman had come to the 
colliery before the termination letter dated 1st June, 
1970 was sent to him or that he was victimised for 
his trade union activities. The workmen were repre- 
sented by Shri B, Lai, Advocate and the employers 
by Shri S. S. Mukherjee, Advocate. On behalf of the 
employers 2 witnesses were examined and Exts. M4 
and M5 and W1 to W.3 were marked. On behalf of 
the workmen also 2 witnesses were examined and 
Exts. W.12 and W.13 were marked. Exts. W.4 to 
W.ll for the workmen on admission, bv the employ- 
ers and Exts. Ml to M3 for the employers on admis- 
sion by the workmen were marked. 


4. It is an admitted position’ that the affected work- 
man was a Stone Dusting Mazdoor in West Bokaro 
colliery of the employers, that he was granted leave 
from 13th April, 1970 to 29th April, 1970 and that he 



43^2 


IHE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Pari 11- 


mid not report to duLy within 8 days of the leave so 
granted. Clause 11 of the standing orders, Ext. M3 
(marked on admission by the workmen) lays down 
inter-cilia : 

"If the employee remains absent beyond the pe- 
riod of leave originally granted or subse- 
quently extended he shall lose his lien on his 
appointment unless: — 

(i) he returns within 8 days of the expiry of 
the leave, and 

(ii) gives an explanation to the satisfaction of 
the Manager of his inability to return be- 
fore the expiry of leave. In case the em- 
ployee loses his lien on the appointment he 
shall be entitled to be kept on the ‘Badli’ 
list.” 

The Supreme Court has pointed out in National Engi- 
neering Industries Ltd, Jaipur v. Hanuman (AIR 1988 
S.C. 33), (hat under such circumstances the work- 
mans’s service terminates automatically. The case of 
the workmen is that the affected workman had sent an 
application or a medical certificate on 26th April, 1970 
for extension of his leave. This application and the 
medical certificate are denied by the employers. No 
copy of such an application or the medical certificate 
Is brought on record. A certificate of posting, Ext, 
W.5, dated 25th April, 1970 Is produced. Ext. W.5 
by itself is not a proof that an application or a medical 
certificate for extension of leave was sent. It only 
gives rise to the presumption that a letter was sent. 
The affected workman was the proper person to speak 
as to who had written the letter or which Doctor had 
issued the medical certificate and how it was sent. 
He is examined as WW.l. He did not speak about 
his sending any medical certificate under the certifi- 
cate of posting. Ext. W.5. He says that the letter on 
his behalf was written by Baljnath Singh, his brother 
and in the letter he had prayed for an extension of 
leave by a month, that the letter was brought from 
his village to the colliery by his brother. Baijnath 
Singh and that he did not know in what language his 
brother had written the letter. In view of this evid- 
ence the certificate of posting, Ext. W.5 becomes mean- 
ingless, But the affected workman, WW.l stated 
again that his brother Baijnath Singh had posted the 
letter and he did not come to the colliery, Baijnath 
Singh was I he proper person to speak what he had 
written in the letter, whether he had posted it and 
from which post office he obtained the certificate of 
posting Ext. W.S. But Baijnath Singh is not examin- 
ed, although he is the brother of the affected work- 
man. The affected workman, WW.l has In his evid- 
ence that after coming to the colliery he had handed 
over to Verma, the Labour Officer his medical certi- 
ficate and also Ext. W.5. but at a later stage he clari- 
fied that he got the medical certificate after he re- 
covered completely and the same certificate he had 
given to Verma the Labour Officer. According to 
him. he did not remember from what date and in what 
month he had fallen ill, but he was ill for about a 
month and for about 15 or 10 days he was in-patient 
in the hospital at Ekma and for the remaining days 
he used to go to the hospital and get medicines. The 
medical certificate Is Ext. W.4 and It is dated 31st 
May, 1970, stating that the affected workman was 
under treatment of the Doctor from 30th April, 1970 
This is the only medical certificate which Is brought 
on record. But according to the workmen the medi- 
cal certificate was sent on 25th April, 1970 Under the 
certificate of posting. Ext. W.S, In para 2 of their 
statement the workmen had stated “he fell ill and 
applied for extension of his leave on the ground of 
sickness vide his medical certificate sent to the man- 
agement under the certificate of posting on 25th April, 
1970.” In view of this evidence it Is difficult to be- 
lieve that the affected workman had sent any applica- 
tion for extension of his leave or a medical certificate 
within 8 days of the leave granted. On behalf of the 
workmen no date is mentioned on which date the 


affected w or Km an reported lor duty at the colliery, 
'iffc affected workman also did not refer to the date, 
bm says that he came to the colliery after about a 
montn of expiry of leave. When he did not return 
Within 8 daya ox expiry of the leave, on what date the 
termination letter Ext. M4 was delivered to him after 
he returned from leave become immaterial. In these 
circumstances and in view of the decision of the Sup- 
reme Court referred to above, termination of hia ser- 
vice was automatic and the employers cannot be 
found fault for it. 

5. It was pleaded on behalf of the workmen that 
because the affected workman was a member of 
Koyaia Shramik Sanghatan he was victimised and 
that in case of Thakur Mondal and several others 
who were members of INTUC union the management 
had shown discrimination by allowing them to re- 
sume duties even though they had also overstayed 
-he granted leave by more than 8 days. In support 
of the contention the Secretary, Koyaia Shramik 
Sanghatan is examined as WW.2. Exts W.0 fo W.ll 
show that Anant Mistry, Ramadhar Singh, Latif 
Mian and Mohmad Jalil, all workmen of the same 
colliery were reinstated in their jobs after their ser- 
vices were terminated for overstaying the granted 
leave In terms of clause 11 of the standing orders, 
Ext. M3 and these exhibits, Exta. W6 to W.ll 
were marked on admission by the employers. MW.l 
has admitted that the union mentioned in Exts. W.7 
and W.9 means the Colliery Mazdoor Sangh, an 
INTUC union. It follows that these four workmen 
were re-instated after their services were terminat- 
ed for overstaying the granted leave by more than 
8 days because their cases were represented by Col- 
liery Mazdoor Sangh, an INTUC union. Shri B. Lai, 
the learned Advocate for the workmen has referred 
me to the decision of the Patna High Court in Pure 
Kustore Colliery v. Bhajan Dusad and others, (1969-1- 
L.L.J, 129). In that decision the management had not 
terminated the services of 36 workmen although they 
had overstayed their leave by more than 8 days, but 
because the affected workman In that case belonged 
to Khan Mazdoor Congress his service was terminated. 
It is to be remembered that in the instant case the 
case of the workmen is not that services of the work- 
men belonging to Colliery Mazdoor Sangh were not 
terminated and service of the affected workman was 
terminated because he belonged to Koyaia Sharamik 
Sanghatan Their case as pleaded and as proved by 
Exts. W.6 to W.ll is that the 4 workmen referred to 
in Exts. W.6 and W.ll and one Thakur Mondal were 
reinstated after their services were terminated for 
overstaying the granted leave by more than 8 days. 
Tn this view the decision of the Patna High Court is 
to be distinguished. In the present case the dispute is 
not as regards reinstatement of the affected work- 
man, but it is as regards justification of termination 
of his service The services of the 4 workmen referred 
to in Exts. W.6 to W.ll and of Thakur Mondal were 
also terminated as was done in the case of the affected 
workman without anv discrimination ■'or overstaying 
the granted leave. If the case of tilt workmen is 
that the above referred to 5 wc kmen were re-instated 
but not the affected workman, it is beyond the pre- 
sent reference. This Tribunal is not competent to 
convert the dispute referred to in respect of justifica- 
tion for termination of services of the affected work- 
man into the dispute as regards justification in refusing 
to reinstate him in service as the employers had done 
in the case of other 5 workmen. Regarding the other 
trade union activities of the affected workman there 
is absolutely no evidence. Hence, there is no scope 
to contend that termination of services of the affected 
workman tvas for victimisation for his trade union 
activities. 

6. T. therefore, find that the action of the manage- 
ment of West Bokaro colliery of Messrs West Bokero 
Limited. Post Office Ghatotand, District Hazaribagh in 



Sec. 3(ii)J 


4303 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASV1NA 29. 1894 


terminating the services of the affected workman 
Dharm Nath Singh, Stone Dusting Mazdoor was jusii- 
rted and. consequently, he is not entitled to any relief. 
The award is made accordingly and submitted under 
Section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

iSd.) N. Venkata Rao, 

Presiding Officer, 
Central Govt, industrial Tribunal 

LNo. 2/187/70'LiRII.J 

S.O. 2859. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 

Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, 
in the industrial dispute between the employers in re- 
lation to the management of Mithapur Colliery ol 
Messrs Mithapur Coal Company, Post Office Searsole 
Raj bai l, ‘ District Burdwan and their workmen, which 
was received by the Central Government on the 4t.h 
October. 1972. 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 
AT CALCUTTA 
Reference No. 109 of 1971 

Parties : 

Employers in relation to the management of 
Mithapur Colliery of Messrs Mithapur Coal 
Company, 

And 

Their Workmen, 

) 'resent: 

Sri S. N. Bagchi— Presiding Officer. 
appearances : 

On behalf of Employers -Sri Gulab Chand Gidiyy, 
Accountant. 

On behalf of Workmen^- Absent. 

Sr\TE:West Bengal Industry: Coal Mine. 

AWARD 

By Order No. L/1912/69/71-LRII, dated 16th Octo- 
ber, 1971, the Government of India, in the Ministry 
of Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment), referred the following industrial 
dispute existing between the employers in relation to 
the management of Mithapur Colliery of Messrs 
Mithapur Coal Compuny and their workmen, to this 
Tribunal, for adjudication, namely: 

“Whether the workmen of Mithapur Colliery of 
Messrs Mithapur Coal Company, Post Office 
Searsole RajbHri, District Burdwan are en- 
titled to any compensation for their forced 
unemployment from the 17th May, 1971 to the 
9th July, 1971 by their employers? If so, with 
what details?” 

2. To-day is the date fixed for peremptory hearing 
of the case, The imion appeared on 16th August 1972 
but none appeared on behalf of the management when 
the date was fixed for hearing. But the union did 
not file any statement of its case nor the management. 
To-day when the case was called on for hearing Sri 
Gulab Chand Gidiya, Accountant of the manage- 
ment, came to represent the case for the management 
but none turned up for the union. The notice of the 
peremptory date of hearing was duly served on the 
management on 25th August 1972. The union knew 
Ibe date on 16th August 1972, fixed for peremptory 
hearing today. For the management the gentleman 
who has appeared submitted that the management 
did not get the notice of this date of peremptory hear- 
ing but the record shows that the management got 
the notice on 25th August 1972. Therefore, I cannot 
accept the statement of the gentleman who has 
anpeared for the management and I shall not adjourn 
the case. 


3. As none of the parties have submitted any state- 
ment of case and as the union has also not turned up 
to-day knowing that to-day is fixed for peremptory 
hearing of the case, it can be presumed that there is 
no dispute existing at present between the parties 
and as such I render a ‘no dispute’ award in the 
matter under reference. 

This is my award. 

(Sd.) S. N. Bagchi, 

Presiding Officer. 

Dated, September 27, 1972, 

LNo. L-1912/69/71-LRII. | 
(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 10th October 1972 

S.O. 2860. — In pursuance of section 17 of the In- 
dustrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby publishes the following award 
of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
Hyderabad, in the industrial dispute between the 
employers in relation to the Singareni Collieries Com- 
pany Limited, Ramagundam Division, Post Office 
Godavarikhani (Andhra Pradesh) and their “work- 
men, which was received by the Central Government 
on the 4th October, 1972. 

BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, (CENT- 
RAL) AT HYDERABAD 

Present: 

Sri P. S. Ananth, B.Sc , B.L., Chairman, Indus- 
trial Tribunal, Andhra, Pradesh, Hyderabad. 

Industrial Dispute No. 47 or 1971 
Between 

Workmen of Singareni Collieries Company Limi- 
ted, Ramagundam Division, P. O. GODA- 
VARlKHANi. 

AND 

Management of Singareni Collieries Company 
Limited, Ramagundam Division, P. O. GODA- 
VARIKHANI. 

Appearances : 

Sri A. Lakshmana Rao, Advocate, for Workmen. 

Sri M. Shyam Mohan, Personnel Officer, S. C. Co., 
Ltd. for Manaaement. 

AWARD 

The Government of India, Mnistry of Labour, Em- 
ployment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment) by its Older No.7/50/70-LR.II 
dated: 29th May, 1971 referred the following dispute 
under Section 10(1) (d) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 (hereinafter referred to as the said Act) 
for adjudication by this Tribunal, namely; 

“Whether the management of Singareni Collieries 
Company Limited. Ramagundam Division, 
Post Office Godavari Khani (Andhra Pradesh) 
are justified in terminating the services of 
Sarvashri Metta Lingaiah, Salla Manthaiah 
and Syed Jani, Loading and Un-loading 
Mazdoors in the Coal Screening Plant, Goda : 
varikhani, Ramagundam Divlsion-I with 
effect from the 30th August. 1970? If not, to 
what relief are the workmen entitled?” 

This reference was taken on file as Industrial Dispute 
No. 47 of 1971 and notices were issued to the patles. 
For Ihe purpose of convenience the workmen, who are 
claimants, are referred to as the Petitioners and the 
Singareni Collieries Company Limited, Ramagundam 
Division Is referred to as the respondents in the 
course of this award. 

2, The petitioners are represented by the Andhra 
Pradesh Singareni Collieries Mazdoor Sangh (herein- 
after referred to as the said Sangh) and the Vice 
President of the said Sangh filed the claims statement 
conteding as follows: The petitioners are perma- 
nent employees of the respondents working as load- 
ing and un-loRdlng mazdoors since 1966 in the Coal 
Screening Plant of the Company, while they were so 



4304 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASV1NA 29 , 1894 


[Part II — 


working the Management wanted to send them as 
Coal Fillers. So on 28-8-1970 tne claimants were 
sent to the Colliery Doctor tor medical examination 
to test their fitness lor appointment as Coal Fillers. 
The doctor had written the words unfit against each 
ot Lhe workmen, Neither the reason for finding each 
ol the workmen unfit nor the defect found in them 
is recorded by the doctor. On the basis of this vague 
finding 1 ot the doctor, the Management terminated the 
services of the petitioners with effect from 80-8-1970 
nurportng to act under the Standing Order 13. The 
Action ot the Management in terminating the service 
of the petitioneis is illegal and improper being viola- 
tive of the principles of natural justice. The Manage- 
ment passed the orders of termination in colourable 
exercises of their power under the Standing Order 
13, The doctor did not find that the petitioners wer< 
unfit for the job of loading and unloading mazdoor 
which they were doing for the past four years. The 
nature ot the standard medical test differs from post 
to post. Assuming without conceeding that the 
doctor found the workmen unfit for the post of Coal 
Fillers the management is not justified in termmat- 
ing the services of the p-etltioners. The petitioners 
got themselves examind in December, 1970 by a 
competent Civil Surgeon of the Government Head- 
quarters Hospital, Karimnagar and the medical certi- 
ficates issued to them show that they do not suffer 
from any defect disabling them from working m the 
coal mines. As a matter of fact the management 
made use of the vague and unconnected remark of 
the doctor as a ruse to terminate the services of (he 
workmen. As a matter of fact one Bharataraju 
having some defective eye sight was discharged along 
with the three workmen concerned in this dispute 
He was also loading and unloading mazdoor, After 
lie got the defect rectified he was re-employed by the 
Managment with continuity of service, The job ot 
loading and unloading mazdoor is quite different from 
that of coal filler, which is more arduous and to be 
done underground. It is not within the power of the 
management to alter the very nature of the work 
done by a particular workman and then to discharge 
him from service on the ground of his not being fil 
for the new job. The petitioners could not secure 
any other job since termination of their services with 
effect from 30-8-1970 inspite of their best efforts. So 
the order of management may be set aside and they 
may be reinstated into service with back wages. 


3. The respondent filed a reply statement contend- 
ing as follows. The petitioners are not permanent 
employees of the respondent. It is admitted by the 
petitioners that the p-etitioners were proposed by the 
management to send them to work as coal fillers. In 
pursuance of this proposal the three workmen were 
sent to the medical officer on 28-B-1970 to test their 
physical fitness and the medical officer after examin- 
ing them carefully, found them wanting and so dec- 
lared them as unfit for employment in the mines. It 
is not incumbent for the management to state the 
reasons and it is the prerogative of the company t.o 
terminate the service of all other employees who are 
riot covered by the Standing Orders. The manage- 
ment. has the right to terminate the services of any 
temporary workmen under 13 (cl of the Standnp 
Orders. The assumption that if the petitioners were 
found unfit for the post of coal fillers they should at 
least be allowed to work in any casual capacity as 
loading and unloading mazdoors Is unwarranted. The 
averment that the petitioners were found "fit by Civil 
Surgeon of the Government District Headquarters 
Hospital is irrelevant as the medical officer of the 
collieries is the competent certifying officer. The 
reference to one Bharataraju is beyond the issue. 
There is no change or alteration in the nature of 
Ihe work as alleged by the petitioners as thev are 
not covered by the Standing Orders. The offer by 
the management to re-examine the petitioners by a 
Medical Board of the Company to find out their 


medical fitness was not agreeable to the Union re- 
presenting them and so the petitioners have fofeited 
even this chance to be reexamined. The Manage- 
ment cannot show any relief when the services ot the 
workmen were terminated simplieiter and when there 
is no relief like reinstatement with back wages with 
effect irom 30-U-liiVu and as the peimonera art not 
direct employees ol the company and us there is no 
employer-employee relationship between the company 
and me petitioners. 


4, The dispute that is referred to for adjudication 
by this Tribunal is whether the Managepnent of 
Singareni Collieries Company Limited, Rarqagundam 
Division are justified in terminating the services of 
Metta Lingaiah, Salla Manthaiah and Syed Jani, 
Loading and Unloading Mazdoors in the coal screen- 
ing plant, Godavari Kham, with effect from 30-8-1970? 

5, The petitoners, who are three in number, were 
admittedly working as loading and unloading Maz- 
dooij under the respondent m the Coal Screening 
Plant at Godavari Kham. The Management proposed 
to send the petitioners as Coal fillers and so they were 
send to the respondents Doctor M.W. 1 (Dr. C. Ven- 
kaleswara Rao) for medical, examination on 28-8-1970 
and they were found unfit by M.W. 1. Ex. M 1, M 2 
and M3 are the medical officers reports relating to 
the petitioners Metta Lingaiah, Salla Manthaiah and 
Syed Jani respectively. Subsequent to the medical 
reports Kxs.Ml to M3, L be respondent terminated the 
services of the petitioners. In order to show that the 
petitioners were only working as temporary workers 
lhe leflpondcnt filed the paysheet Exs.M4, M5 and 
Mb' lor certain periods. Now ii is common ground 
that the petitioners were found unfit to work as coal 
fillers in the mines. M.W.l did not mention in the 
certificates that the petitioners were unfit for doing 
t-ven the job of loading and unloading mazdoors in 
the Coal Seieening Plant, which they were doing 
prior to their examination toy M.W.l. 

6, After the services of the petitioners were termi- 
nated, they got thmselves examined by the Civil 
Surgeon in the District Headquarters Hospital 
Karimnagar. W.W.l Matta Lingaiah, W W2 is Salla 
Mantaiah and they are two of the petitioners Ex 
W1 is certificate issued by the Civil Surgeon, District 
Headquarters Hospital, Krimnagar to W.W, 1 stating 
that the left eye is effective for which treatment is 
suggested and that, in the doctors opinion, the vision 
that the W.W.1 is having is quite good to perform 
his duties. Ex. W2 is the certificate issued by the Same 
Doctor to W.W.2. This certificate is to the effect 
that W.W. 2 is a normal person. Ex, W.3 is a similar 
certificate issued by the same Doctor to the other 
'Petitioner Syed Jam. Now it has to be seen whether 
the action of the management in lerminating the ser- 
vices ol the petitioners Is justified. No doubt one 
of the contentions of the respondent is that the peti- 
tioners are nnly temporary workers and so the res- 
pondent can terminate their services at any time 
under Order 13(c) of lhe Standing Orders of the 
Company and that in as much as the present order 
of termination is only an order of termination simpli- 
citer, the petitioners cannot raise any objection. But 
the evidence in this case shows that the services of 
Ibe petitioners were terminated because of the medi- 
cal eertifleats issued by M.W.L So. as rightly con- 
tended bv the learned counsel for the petitioners, it 
is only a colourable exercise of the power but it 
is not a case of on order simplieiter. A s alreadv 
stated the petitioners were sent by the respondent, 
lo M.W, 1 to sec whether the petitioners were fit for 
doing ihe work of coal fillers. The evidence in this 
ease does not at all shows that it is at the request 
of the petitioners for the post of coal fillers that the 
petilmne-s were sent for medical examination. On the 
other hand the evidence in this case dearly shows that 
lhe respondent himself sent the petitioners for medical 
examination with the idea of giving them the" jobs of 
coal fillers in ease they were medically found fit It 
is seen from Ex. Ml to M3 that the petitioners were 
found unfit only for working as coal fillers. 



43°5 


Sec. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASV1NA 29, 1 h94 


7. So lar as W.W.l is concerned, according to 
M.VV.l, he was having hypher tension, 150/100 witn 
left venticular hypetrophy and so lor this reason He 
was unlit. According to him so far as the hypher 
tension is concerned it can only be controlled but 
not cured. So far as VV.W.2 is concerned, according 
to M.W.l, he was suitering from pulmory T,B. on 
the right side and so he was made unfit, He himself 
says that so far as T,B. cases are concerned if they 
are permanent employees they would send the 
patients either to Beilampalli or to Kothagudem as 
regards their fitness for duty and that the persons 
whose names were put to hint in the cross examina- 
tion were not made unfit by him though they were 
T.B. patients because they had improved with the 
treatment. He himself admits that the pulmonary 
T.B. can be cured by T.B. specialist when he is asked 
why W.W.2 was made unfit, he says that so far as 
he is concerned he was made unfit because he was 
a temporary employee. At the same time he says 
that he does not know the meaning of temporary 
employee but that in the letter sent to him it was 
mentioned as temporary employee. So far as W.W. I 
is concerned he says that his left eye sight was 6 60 
and so he made him unlit because, according to the 
Mines Aci, a person if one defective eye with vision 
6/60 is unfit. He himself admits that the defective 
vision mentioned in Ex. Ml may be cured by treat- 
ment. According to him W.W.l with his defect noted 
in Ex. Ml cannot work in Coal Screening' Plant though 
ho may work on surface. When he is asked why 
treatment was not suggested to these persons he says 
that ail he can say is that they were sent for medical 
examination and not for giving apv treatment and 
so he gave his report as to whether they are fit. to 
work in and around the mines. He says that it is 
the practice in the Collieries to make unfit persons 
who had defective vision. At the same time he 
admits that he made one Bharataraju and Chandraiah 
unfit due to defective vision and that again he dec- 
lared them fit alter one month after they were made 
unlit, since those persons were wearing spects and 
since he found them fit with glasses when he re- 
examined them. His whole evidence now shows that 
it is because these three persons were said to be 
temporary persons they were not referred to the 
hospital at Kothagudem or any treatment was sug- 
gested. 


8. Even though it is said that it is because the peti- 
tioners were temporary persons they were not given 
any further chance. The evidence of M.W.l shows that 
it is only from what was written In the memos sent 
by the Company ho came to know that they were 
temporary employees. Now the evidence in this case 
shows that the petitioners had worked for atleost four 
years prior to the termination of their services. The 
evidence also shows that these persons were working 
as Coal Screening Plant Loading and unloading maz- 
doors. Under Standing Order 2(f) (iv) a temporary 
employee is one who is engaged for work which is of 
an essentially temporary in character likely to be 
finished within a limited period. The nature of the 
work done by the petitioners prior to the termination 
of their services does not show that it wgs only a 
work of essentially temporary character likely to be 
finished within limited period. It is not the case of 
the respondent that the loading and unloading maz- 
doors in the Coal Screening Plant was only a tempo- 
rary work which was completed within a limited 
period and so the services of the petitioners were 
terminal ed. The whole case of the respondent is 
that in order to past the petitioners as coal fillers they 
were sent for medical examination and that since 
M.W.l found them unfit to do the duties of coal fillers 
their services were terminated. If according to the 
respondent the petitioners would not be employed as 
coal fillers and when the evidence also shows that the 
petitioner never applied for the job of coal fillers, in 
the usual course the respondent should have continued 


the petitioners as loading and unloading mazdoore in 
Uie Coal bereemng Plant, wnich is the work that they 
were doing prior to the medical examination and which 
wuix was still available for the petitioners. Without 
adopting to his course if the respondent straight away 
terminated the services of the petitioners on the 
ground that they were unfit to work as coal fillers, 
certainly such an action of the respondent cannot be 
justified. The learned counsel for the petitioners also 
contended that if the petitioners were found medically 
unfit for cerLam defects they should have been given 
an opportunity to get them tested again and that in 
this case as a matter of fact after they were made 
unfit they approached the Government Doctor who 
certified that they were fit for work and so the action 
of the respondent cannot (be justified. He relied upon 
the decision reported in ANGLO-FRENCH MILLS v. 
MUNIAMMAL [1966(I)LLJ, page 695], In that case 
the respondent therein was declared by Company's 
Doctor to be of unsound mind and on that report the 
services of the respondent therein were terminated. 
Though their Lordships In that case observed that the 
conduct of the Company was not merely bonafidc, but 
it, was lor good and sufficient reasons, judged from the 
point of view of equity and common sense, their Lord- 
ships after considering Article 47(c) of the French 
Labour Code observed that the employer could take 
action to terminate the services of a worker, for men- 
tal or physical incurable infirmity, only after affording 
this opportunity for a cure or at least for a sufficient 
rehabilitation for the worker to be restored tu the 
efficient performance of duty. Though in the Standing 
Orders of the respondent there is no such specific pro- 
vision made, still justice required that the workmen 
who were working under the respondent atleast for 
four years should nave been given an opportunity to 
get proper treatment before finally making them unfit. 
However in this case even th question of giving trat- 
ment does not arise because the petitioners never 
applied for the post of coal fillers and so far as the 
defects noted by M.W.l are concerned they are not 
such defects which could prevent the petitioners from 
doing the work of loading and unloading in the Coal 
Screening Plant. If the petitioners who were all along 
working as Coal Screening Plant loading and unload- 
ing mazdoorg and who never asked for the job of coal 
fillers are sent for medical examination for issuing a 
certificate as to whether they were fit to work as coal 
lillrs and if their services are terminated on the ground 
that they were unfit to work as coal fillers, certainly 
such an action on the part of the respondent is nothing 
short of vietimisatic and unfair labour practice. As 
already stated, it is not a case of the resppondent that 
they were found unfit to work as loading and unloading 
mazdoors or that the work in the Coal Screening Plant 
was closed down and that as the petitioners being 
temporary workmen appointed for a limited period 
their services were terminated. The respondent can- 
not now contend that the order is termination simplici- 
tor and it is a clear case of unlawful termination but 
not a case of bonaflde action on the part of the res- 
pondent. On a consideration of the evidence in this 
case, I am satisfied that the action of the respondent 
in terminating the services of the petitioners cannot at 
all be justified. 


9. For all the aforesaid reasons so far as the dispute 
referred for adjudication Is concerned I hold that the 
Management of Singareni Collieries Company Limited, 
Ramagundam Division. Post Office: Godavari Khani 
CAP) are not justified in terminating the services of 
Sarvasri Metta Lingaiah, Salla Manthaiah and Syed 
Jani Loading and Unloading mazdoors in the Coal 
Screening Plant, Godavari Khani, Ramagundam Divi- 
sion I with effect from 30th August, lfTO and so the 
petitioners are entitled to be reinstated with back 
wages. So orders passed by the respondent terminat- 
ing the services of the petitioners are set aside and 
the respondent is directed to reinstate the petitioners 
as loading and unloading Mazdoors in the C.S.P, with 



4306 


fHE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part H — 


effect from 30-8-1970 and the respondent is also direc- 
ted to pay the back wages from 30-8-1970. 


Dictated to the Stenographer, transcribed by him 
ana corrected by me and given under my hand and tne 
seui ot this Tribunal, this the 14th day ot September, 
1972. 


APPENDIX Or EVIDENCE : 


Witnesses examined 
for Petitioners : 
W.W.l: Metta Linguiuh 
W.W.2: Salla Manthaiah 

W.W.3: Mohd. Afzal. 


Witnesses examined 
for Respondent; 
M.W.l: Dr. C. Vcnkateswar 
Rao. 


Documents exhibited for Petitioners: 


Ex.Wl: Medical certificate dated 23rd December 
1970 Issued by Dr. V. Seshagiri Rao Civil 
Surgeon, Specialist and Superintendent Dis- 
trict Head Quarters Hospital, Karimnagar tp 
Metta Lingaiah, 


Ex.W2: Health and age certificate dated 21st De- 
cember 1970 issued by Dr. V. Bhoom Reddy, 
Asstt. Surgeon and Asstt. Professor to Man- 
taiah. 


Ex.W.3: Health and age certificate dated 21st De- 
cember 1970 issued by Dr. V. Bhoom Reddy, 
Asstt. Surgeon and Asstt. Professor in Surgery 
to Syed Jani, * 

Ex.W.4: Letter dated 31st December 1970 of the 
Secretary, of A. P, Singareni Collieries Maz- 
door Sangh, Ramagundam addressed to S. 
Sankarappa Asstt. Labour Commissioner ( C ) . 
Hyderabad, 

Ex.W.5: Letter dated 16th November 1970 of the, 
Agent, S. C. Co, Ltd., Ramagundam to Ihe 
Medical Officer, Ramagundam for remedical 
examination of two workers. 

Ex.W.6: Letter dated 26th November 1970 of the 
Agent S. C. Co. Ltd,, Ramagundam I addressed 
to the Medical Officer, Ramagundam for re- 
medical examination of B. Rajam. 

Ex.W.7: Letter dated 16th November 1970 of 
Medical Officer, Ramagundam Division to the 
Agent, Ramagundam I. 

Ex.W.8: Letter dated 11th December 1970 of Medi- 
cal Officer, Ramagundam Division addressed 
to the Agent, Ramagundam I, 

Ex.W.9: Letter dated 26th August 1970 of Agent, 
Ramagundam I addressed to the Medical 
Officer, Ramagundam regarding medical exa- 
mination. 

Ex.W.10: List of T.B. Patients for the years 1971- 
72 of Godavari Khani Colliery Ramagundam 
Division. 

Documents exhibited for Respondent 

Ex. Ml : Medical Officer’s report dated 28th August 
1970 in respect of Metta Lingaiah. 

Ex.M2: Medical Officer’s report dated 12th July 
1970 in respect of Salla Manthaiah. 

Ex.M3: Medical Officer’s report dated 12th July 
1970 in respect of Syed Jani. 


E\.M4: Pay sheet of the Company Remegundam 
Division for the Daily rate temporary workers 
for week ending 27th August 1966 paid on 2nd 
September 1966. 

Ex.MS: Pay sheet of the Company, Ramagundam 
Division for the Daily rate temporary maz- 
doors for week ending 11th Novembrr, 1967 
paid on 17th November. 1967. 

Ex.MR: Pay sheet of the Company Ramagundam 
Division for the daily rate temporary mazdoors 
f nr week ending month of June, 1968 paid on 
5th July, 1968. 

(9d.) P. S. Ananth, 
[No. 7/50/70-L PIT i 


S.O. 2861. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby publishes the following award 
“f the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, No. 
3, Dhanbad, in the industrial dispute between the 
employers in relation to the management of Ena 
Colliery of Messrs North West Coal Company 
Limited, Post Office Dhansar, District Dhanbad and 
their workmen, which was received by the Central 
Government on the 6th October, 1972. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVT. INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL NO. 3, DHANBAD 
Reference No. 24 or 1970 

Present : 

Sri B. S. Tripathi, Presiding Officer. 

Parties: 

Employers m relation to the management of Ena 
Colliery of M/s. North West Coal Co. Ltd., 
P.O. Dhansar, Distt. Dhanbad. 

And 


Their workmen. 

AlT'EAllANCEa. 

For Employers — Shrl J. N. P. Sahi, Labour and 
Law Adviser, Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. — 
added as a party vide Order No. 14, dated the 
23rd March, 1972. 

For Workmen — Shri S. D. Dasgupta, Joint Gen- 
eral Secretary, Colliery Mazdoor Sangh. 

Industry: Coal State: Bihar. 

Dated, Dhanbad, the 30 th September, 1972 
AWARD 

The present reference arises out of Order No. 
2/17/70-LRII, dated the 27th November, 1970 of the 
Central Government in the Ministry of Labour, Em- 
ployment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
& Employment) under Section 10(1) (d) of the In- 
dustrial Disputes Act, 1947 in relation to an indus- 
trial dispute between the parties, mentioned above, 
with respect to the matters specified in the schedule 
of reference which is extracted below: — 

Schedule 

“Whether the action of the management of Ena Col- 
liery of M/S. North West Coal Company Limited, 
Post Office Dhansar, District Dhanbad in 
terminating the services of Shri Doman Mal- 
Jah, Haulage Khalasi with effect from the 6th 
January, 1969 was justified? If not, to what 
relief is the workman concerned entitled?’’ 

2. The parties to the reference have filed thcii 
written statements elaborating their cases relating to 
the reference. I do not however consider necessary 
to mention here their respective claims as in the 
meantime the concerned parties settled the dispute in 
question out of Court amicably and the terms of 
settlement have been embodied in the compromise 
petition signed by the representatives of the respec- 
tive parties. The compromise pettiion whs received 
by the Tribunal through post and neither the parties 
nor their representatives appeared before the Tribu- 
nal to verify the settlement arrived at by the parties. 
The representatives of the parties however turned up 
on receipt of the notice from the Tribunal on 29th 
September, 1972 and they verified before me the dis- 
pute between the parties have been amicably settled 
as per terms embodied in the compromise petition and 
prayed for making an award in terms thereof. 



Sec. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4307 


3. I have carefully persued and considered the terms 
of the settlement in the light of the reference and 
the cases of the parties and I find that the terms are 
quite fair, just and equitable. There is no reason why 
an awara shall not be made in terms and conditions 
laid down in the memorandum of settlement and I 
make award accordingly. The memorandum of settle- 
ment shall form part of the award and is marked 
Annexure ‘A’ thereof. 

4. Let the award be submitted to the Central Gove- 
rnment Under Section 15 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947. 

(Sd.) B. S. Tripathi, 
Presiding Officer. 

Annexure ‘a’ 

BEFORE THE HON’BLE PRESIDING OFFICER, 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 

(No. 3) AT DHANBAD. 

In the matter of: 

Reference No. 24 of 1970. 

Parties : 

Employers in relation to Ena Colliery of M/s. 

North West Coal Limited. 

And 

Their workmen. 

MEMORANDUM OF SETTLEMENT 

All the parties in the present proceedings have 
amicably settled the dispute involved in the present 
Reference on the terms hereinafter. 

(1) That Sri Doman Mallah (H. E. Khalasi) the 
workman concerned in the present Reference shall be 
reinstated by the management of Ena Colliery of M/». 
North West Coal Co. Limited on and from 16th June, 1972 
without any back wages and that he will work as 
H. E. Khalasi for 3 days and as Onsetter for 3 days 
in each week or he may work in another capacity also 
in the mine and paid accordingly as per respective 
category rate. 

(2) That the period intervening from the date of 
termination (which gave rise to the present Refer- 
ence) till the date of resumption of duty shall, for the 
purpose of continuity of services, be treated as leave 
without pay, but the workman concerned will be eli- 
gible to proportionate leave or quarterly bonus pro- 
vided he puts in proportionate qualifying attendance 
during the remaining period of current yeftr or current 
quarter, as the case may be. 

(3) . In the event of the failure of the concerned 
workman to report for work within a fortnight from 
20th June, 1972 the workman concerned shall have no 
right for re-employment etc. under this agreement. 

(4) The above terms finally resolve the dispute bet- 
ween the parties and, therefore, there is no subsisting 
dispute for adjudication in the present Reference. 

(5) The parties shall bear their own cost of pro- 
ceedings. 

It is, therefore, prayed that the Hon’ble Tribunal 
may be pleased to accept this Settlement and to give 
its Award in terms thereof. 

For the Employer 
S. P. Chatterjee, 

Manager, 

Rno Colliery 

For the Workmen 

(Sd.) — 

(Sd.) S. D. Das Gupta, 

Jt, General Secretry, 
Colliery Mazdoor Sangh. 
(Sd.) Doman Mallah, 
Workman concerned. 


For Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. 

J. N. P. Sahi, 

Labour & Law Adviser 
Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. 

[No. 2/17/70-LRII.] 

S.O. 2862. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 19475 j the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, No. 2, 
Dhanbad, in the industrial dispute between the em- 
ployers in relation to the management of pootkee 
Colliery of Messrs Bhowra Kankanee Colliery Limit- 
ed, Post Office Kusunda, District Dhanbad and their 
workmen, which was received by the Central Govern- 
ment on the 5th October, 1972. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUS- 
TRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO. 2) DHANBAD 
Present: 

Shri Nandagiri Venkata Rao, Presiding Officer. 

Reference No. 6 of 1971 

In the matter of an industrial dispute under S. 10(1) 
(d) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

Parties : 

Employers in relation to the management of Poot- 
kee Colliery of Messrs Bhowra Kankanee Col- 
lieries Limited, Post Office Kusunda, District 
Dhanbad. 

And 

Their workmen. 

Appearances : 

On behalf of the employers— Shri S. S. Mukherjee, 

Advocate. 

And 

Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. 

On behalf of the workmen— Sardar Jagir Singh, 
General Secretary, Mine Karamchari Sangh. 
State: Bihar. Industry: Coal. 

Dhanbad, the 30 th September, 1972 
AWARD 

The Central Government, being of opinion that an 
industrial dispute exists between the employers in 
relation to the management of Pootkee Colliery of 
Messrs Bhowra Kankanee Collieries Limited, Post 
Office Kusunda, District Dhanbad and their work- 
men, by its order No. 2/20/70-LR.II, dated 11th De- 
cember 1970 referred to this Tribunal under Section 
10(1) (d) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 for adju- 
dication the dispute in respect of the matters specified 
in the schedule annexed thereto. The schedule is ex- 
tracted below: — 

Schedule 

“Whether the action of the management of Pootkee 
Colliery of Messrs Bhowra Kankanee Collieries 
Limited, Post Office Kusunda, District Dhan- 
bad was justified in refusing work to Shri 
Sharfuddin, Electric Fitter with effect from 
the 12th September, 19697 If not, to what re- 
lief is the workman concerned entitled?” 

2, Employers as well as the workmen filed their 
statement of demands. The workmen have also filed 
rejoinder to the statement of the employers. 

3. The dispute Is as regards refusal of work with 
effect from 12th September 1969 to the affected work- 
man, Sharfuddin, Electric Fitter of Pootkee Colliery 
of the employers. Admittedly, the affected workman 
went on leave with effect from 28th January 1967. The 
case of the employers is that the affected workman 
was granted leave on the grounds of domestic affairs 
from 28th January 1967 to 13th February 1967, that 
an application from the effected workman, undated 
was received in the colliery on 20th February 1967, 

that on the same day the employers informed him that 



4308 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part li- 


the extension sought lor was refused, that on March 1, 
too'/ me employers miormea him tnrough a letter mat 
ms lien has been terminated in accordance with tne 
standing orders tor remaining absent beyond me 
period ol ti days alter expiry oi the granted leave and 
that the affected workman came to the colliery on 
19th September, 1969 and tiled a petition pleading his 
illness for tne prolonged absence. According to the 
workmen due to his illness the affected workman had 
sent applications dated 12th February, 1967 and 28th 
February, 1967 under registered post for extension of 
ms leave, that after he was declared at to resume his 
duties on 11th September, 1969 he reported at the 
colliery for duties on 12th September, 1969, that he 
had handed over the postal registration receipts to 
the welfare officer Who had promised to allow him 
to resume his duties after consultation with the 
manager and that on 19th September, 1969 he sub- 
mitted another application, but it was of no avail. 
In the rejoinder the workmen denied all the allega- 
tions made by the meployers which were contrary to 
those taken by the workmen. While the case was 
pending for receipt of documents the colliery was 
taken over by the Government of India under the 
Jharia Coking Coal Mines (Emergency Provisions) 
Ordinance, 19/1 and Coking Coal Mines (Emergency 
Provisions) Act, 1971 with effect from 17th October, 
1971 and on the application of the workmen, at first 
toe custodian and the custodian general and then 
the Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. was Impleaded a party. 
The Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. also filed a statement 
rhopting the statement of the employers and fur- 
ther pleading that there did not exist any relation- 
ship of employer and employee between them and the 
affected workman, that there was no industrial dis- 
pute between them and the workmen and that they 
are in no way liable or responsible for any act of the 
past management prior to the date of taking over of 
the colliery. The workmen were represented by 
Sardar Jagir -Singh, General Secretary, Mine Karma- 
chari Sangh and the employers and Bharat Coking 
Coal Ltd. by Shri S. S. Mukherjee, Advocate. On 
admission by the workmen, Ext. Ml for the employers 
and on admission by the employers, Exts. W.l to W.3 
for the workmen were marked. On behalf of the em- 
ployers a witness was examined and Exts. M2 to M6 
were marked. On behalf of the workmen 3 witnesses are 
examined and Exts. W.4 to W.9 were marked. No 
witness was examined and no document was marked 
for the Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. 


3. It is an admitted position that the affected work- 
man was granted leave from 28th January, 1967. Ext 
M2 is the leave application of the affected workman 
and it points out that the leave was granted from 
28th January, 1967 to 13th February 1967. Ext. W2 Is 
a letter of the affected workman in Urdu and it clearly 
states that the leave was granted upto 13th February, 
1967. Therefore, the affected workman was to report 
for duties on 14th February, 1907. But, admittedly, he 
reported for duty in the month of September, 1969, a 
period of more than 2i years. The certified standing 
orders governing the colliery are Ext. M6 and clause 
11 thereof is as following: — 

“Any direct employee of the company other than 
a miner or loader who desires to obtain leave 
of absence shall apply in writing to the head 
of his department or the manager of the col- 
liery. Employees, who due to illiteracy do 
not apply in writing must apply verbally, If 
the employee remains absent beyond the 
period of leave originally granted or subse- 
quently extended he shall lose his lien on his 
appointment unless: 


(i) he returns within 8 days of the expiry of 
the leave, and 


(ii) gives an explanation to the satisfaction of 
tbe manager of his inability to return before 
the expiry of leave. In case the employee 
"loses his lien on the appointment he shall be 
entitled to be kept on the ‘Badli’ list. 


If leave is refused or postponed the fact of such 
refusal or postponement and the reasons 
therefor shall be recorded in writing in a 
leave register to be maintained for this pur- 
pose and if the employee so desires, a copy 
of such entry in the register shall be supplied 
to him.” 


4. The affected workman did not return within 8 
days of the leave granted and as such under the above 
clause of the standing orders he lost lien on his em- 
ployment automatically. In this view I am supported 
by the decision of the Supreme Court in National En- 
gineering Industries Ltd., Jaipur v. Hanuman (AIR — 
1968 — S.C. 33) . It is to be remembered that the 
affected workman cannot be exempted from the opera- 
tion of clause 11 of the standing orders inasmuch as 
he is not a miner or a loader. The case of the work- 
men is that the affected workman had sent two appli- 
cations respectively on 12th February, 1967 and 23rd 
February, 1067 for extension of his leave under regis- 
tered post. The employers have denied receipt of 
either of the applications. But Ext. Ml is a letter In 
Urdu from the affected workman, admittedly received 
by the employers on 20th February, 1967. It was re- 
ceived within 8 days of the expiry of the leave. 
Though there is no express prayer for extension of 
leave the intention of the affected workman, obviously 
was for extension of the leave. There is no law that 
an application for extension of leave from a workman 
should be granted by the employers automatically if It 
is received before the expiry of the leave granted or 
within 8 days thereof. The employer has a discretion 
in the matter to grant the extension prayed for or 
refuse it. Of course, the discretion requires to be 
exercised judicially. In the pleading of the workmen 
as well as in the evidence of the affected workman it 
is stated that even before proceeding on leave the 
affected workman was sick since December, 1968 
under treatment by the colliery medical officer and 
he had applied for and granted leave from 28th Janu- 
ary, 1967 on the gorund of his sickness. But his appli- 
cation for leave, Ext. M2 clearly states that the leave 
was granted on domestic affairs. The letter, Ext. Ml 
Btates that the leave granted to the affected workman 
was upto 13th February, 1967 but owing to misfortune 
he had fallen ill due to which he cannot reach his 
place of work in time and that when he becomes 
normal he would appear. The affected workman, 
WW.l says that having gone home he became more 
sick and as such he was under treatment of Dr. Baj- 
rang Sahay at Raflqganj from 8th February, 1067 to 
28th August 1967, It emerges that when he sent, Ext. 
Ml letter the affected workmen was under treatment 
of Dr. Bajrang Sahay. But neither that fact was 
mentioned in the letter, Ext. Ml nor the letter was 
accompanied by any certificate from Dr. Bajrang 
Sahay, In the letter, Ext. Ml there was no period 
mentioned for which extension was sought for. Under 
the circumstances it cannot be said that the employer 
were not justified in refusing the extension of leave or 
that they were actuated by any motive in rejecting 
the extension applied for, Neither it is pleaded nor 
proved that there was any cause for the employers to 
victimise the affected workman. According to the 
employers they sent a letter on 20th February. 1967, 
Ext. M3 and subsequently one more on 1st March 1967, 
Ext., M4 to the affected workman pointing out that 
the extension was refused and he had lost lien on his 
appointment. These letters are denied by the work- 
men, MW.l could not prove satisfactorily that these 



Sec. 3(H)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4309 


letters were received by the affected workman. But 
there is no duty cast on the employers to inform a 
workman that the extension sought for by him was 
rejected or that he had lost lien on his appointment. 
A workman on leave cannot save himself from the 
operation of Clause 11 of the standing orders by 
merely sending a letter for extension of leave and stay 
away for years together on the ground that the em- 
ployers did not inform him of rejection of his leave. 
The affected workman, WW.l says that a person by 
name Rahamatullah, belonging to his own village 
works at the colliery as a minor and the affected 
workman used to write letters to Rahamatullah in- 
forming him about his (affected workman’s) sickness 
and requesting him to report the same to the man- 
agement and request for extension of his leave, Raha- 
matullah is examined as WW.2 and he supports the 
statement of the affected workman, WW.l. But Raha- 
matullah, WW.2 does not say that any time during 
the last 24 years he made enquiry in the office of the 
manager as to the fate of the letter, Ext, Ml sent by 
the affected workman. Under these circumstances it 
does not appear that the silence on the part of the 
affected workman for as long a period as more than 
21 years was bona fide. According to the affected 
workman he appeared at the colliery for duties on 
12th September, 1989 and he was refused work. I 
consider that the employers were justified in doing so 
Inasmuch as the affected workman had already lost 
lien on his appointment 24 years back. 

6, Among the objections taken by the Bharat Coking 
Coal Ltd, the one relating to their liability is crucial. 
Their contention is that they are not responsible to 
discharge the liability incurred by the previous man- 
agement. Pending the reference before this Tribunal 
the Government of India took over the management 
of 214 coking coal mines, including the Pootkee col- 
liery of the instant case. The Bharat Coking Coal 
Ltd, is a Government company. Under the provisions 
of the Ordinance and the Act under which the colliery 
was taken over the Administration or management of 
the colliery was taken over by the Government of 
India as a running concern with all its properties and 
assets. No part of the management, administration, 
property or assets relating to the colliery seems to 
have been left with the previous management. All the 
workmen of the colliery as they were under the pre- 
vious management were taken over without any 
break in service. Consequently, all of them have 
become employees of Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. Th< 
decision of the Supreme Court in Bihar State Road 
Transport Corporation v. State of Bihar (1970-11-L.L, 
J. 138) is a case on the point. In' view of this decision 
I have no hesitation to hold that Bharat Coking Coal 
Ltd. is successor-in-title of the previous management 
as far as the colliery Is concerned. But in the Instant 
case the question df liabilitv of the Bharat Coking Coal 
Ltd., does not arise, for the action of the previous 
management itself does not give rise to any liability. 

6. I, therefore, find that the action of the manage- 
ment of Pootkee colliery of Messrs Bhowra Kankanee 
collieries Limited, Post Office Kusunda, District 
Dhanb-'d was justified in refusing work to the affected 
workman, Sharfuddin. Electric Fitter with effect from 
the 12th September, 1969 and consequently, he is not 
entitled to anv relief. The award is made accordingly 
and submitted under S.15 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947. 

(Sd.) N. Venkata Rao, 

Presiding Officer, 

Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal 
(No. 2), Dhanbad. 

[No. 2/2S/70-LRII.] 


S.O. 2863.— In pursuance of section 17 of the Indust- 
rial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby publishes the following award of tbo 


Central Government Industrial. Tribunal, No. 3, Dhan- 
bad, in the Industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the management of Ena Colliery belonging 
to Messrs North Western Company Limited, Post 
Office Dhanaar, District Dhanbad and their workmen, 
which was received by the Central Government on the 
6th October, 1972. 

Referenece No. 46 of 1970 

Present: 

Sri B. S. Trlpathi, Presiding Officer. 

Parties : 

Employers in relation to the management of Ena 
Colliery belonging to M/s. North West Obal 
Co. Ltd,, P.O. Dhanaar, Dist. Dhanbad. 

And 

Their workmen. 

Appearances : 

For Employers .— Shri J. N. P. Sahl Labour and Law 
Adviser of Bharat Coking Coal Ltd., — added as 
a party vide Order No. 10 dated the 23rd 
March, 1972. 

For Workmen . — Shri S, Dasgupta, Joint General 
Secretary, Colliery Mazdoor Sangh. 

Industry : Coal. 

State: Bihar. 

Dated, Dhanbad, the 30th September, 1972. 


AWARD 

The Central Government in the Ministry of Labour 
Employment & Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment) being of the opinion' that an Indust- 
rial dispute exists between The parties named above 
referred the dispute Under Section 10(l)(d) of the In- 
dustrial Disputes Act, 1947 by its Order No. 2/82/70- 
LRII dated the 19th August, 1970 to this Tribunal for 
adjudication with respect to matters specified in the 
schedule annexed thereto. The schedule Is extracted 
below: — 


SCHEDULE 

“Whether the action of the management of Ena 
Colliery belonging to M/s. North West Coal 
Co. Ltd., P-O. Dhansar, Dist. Dhahbad, In 
changing the mode of grant of sick leave from 
14 days with full pay to 30 days with half pay 
with effect from the 27th February, 1970 is 
justified? If not, to what relief are the work- 
men entitled?” 

2. The parties to the reference have filed their res- 
pective written statements in justification of their 
claims. I do not consider it necessary to mention the 
cases of the parties appearing in their written state- 
ments in as much as the dispute between them hag bean 
settled amicably out of Court. The terms of settlement 
have been embodied in the memorandum of settlement 
which has been duly signed by the authorised represen- 
tatives 0 f the parties. The parties or their authorised 
representatives did not turn up on the date fixed to 
verify the settlement in question. However the autho- 
rised representatives of the parties appeared before me 
on 29th September, 1972 and they verified the memo- 
randum of settlement and submitted that an award be 
made in terms of the settlement In question. 

3- I have carefully nerused and considered the terms 
of the settlement in the light of the reference and the 
cases of the parties and I find that the terms are quite 
fair and reasonable. I see no reason why an award 
shall not be made In terms and conditions of the memo- 



43io 


[Past U — 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


randum of settlement and I make the award according- 
ly. The memorandum of settlement shall form part of 
the award and Is attached thereto as Annexure ‘A’. 

4. Let the award be submitted to the Central Gov- 
ernment under Section 15 of Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947. 

B. S. TRIFATHI, Presiding Officer. 


Annexure ‘A’ 


BEFORE THE HON’BLE PRESIDING OFFICER, 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 
(NO. 3) AT DHANBAD' 

In the matter of: 

Reference No. 40 of 1971 

Parties : 

Employers In relation to Ena Colliery of Messrs 
North West Coal Co. Ltd, 

And 

Their workmen. 

Memorandum of Settlement 

All the parties in the present proceedings have ami- 
cably settled the dispute Involved In the present 
Reference on the terms hereinafter stated: — 

(1) That the workmen concerned in the present Refer- 
ence shall be allowed by the management of Ena Col- 
liery of M/s. North West Coal Co. Ltd. from 1-1-1072 
15 days’ sick leave with full pay In case of monthly 
rated workmen. 

(2) The aforesaid management shall pay a sum of 
Rs. 100 ('Rupees one hundred only) as cost of proceedings 
to Joint General Secretary, Colliery Mazdoor Sangh. 

(3) The above terms finally resolve the dispute bet- 
ween the parties and, therefore, there is"fio subsisting 
dispute for adjudication in th e present Reference. 

It is, therefore, prayed that the Hon’ble Tribunal 
may be pleased to accept this Settlement and to give 
its Award in terms thereof. 

For the Employers : For the Workmen : 

S. P. Chatterjee, . S. Das Gupta, 

Manager, Joint General Secretary, 

Ena Colliery. Colliery Mazdoor Sangh. 

For Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. : 

J. N. P. Sahi, 
Labour and Law Adviser, 
Bharat Coking CooTIitd. 

Dated 5th August, 1972. 

[No, 2/82f/70-LRII.j 


New Delhi , the llth October 1972 

S.O. 2864.— In pursuance of section 17 of the Induatrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby publishes the following award of the Cen- 
tral Government Industrial Tribunal, Hyderabad, In 
the industrial dispute between the employers In rela- 
tion to the management of Ramagundam Divislon-I of 
Singareni Collieries Company Limited, Post Office 
Godavari Khanl (Andhra Pradesh) and their workmen, 
which was received by the Central Government on the 
4th October, 1972 


BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (CENTRAL) 
AT DHANBAD 

Present: 

Sri P. S, Ananth, B.Sc., B.L., Chairman, Industrial 
Tribunal (C), Andhra Pradesh, Hyderabad. 

Industrial Dispute No. 81 of 1971 

Between: 

The Workmen of Singareni CoTierles Company 
Limited, Ramaundam Division, No. 1, (R.O.) 
Godavari Khani, A,P. 

And 

The Management of Singareni Collieries Company 
Limited, Ramagundam Division, No. 1, (P.O.) 
Godavari Khani, A.P. 

Appearances : 

Sri A. Raghuramulu, Vice-President, A.P. Singareni 
Collieries Mazdoor Sangh — for workmen. 

Sri M. Shyam Mohan, Personnel Officer, and Sri 
P. Papa Rao, Dlv„ Personnel Officer — for 
management. 

AWARD 

The Government of India, Ministry of Labour, Em- 
ployment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment) by its Order No. L/2112/30/71-LR 
II, dated 8th November, 1971, referred the following 
dispute under Section lO(l)(d) of the Industrial Dis- 
putes Act, 1947 (hereinafter referred to as the said 
Act) to this Tribunal, for adjudication, namely: 

“Whether the management of Ramagundam Divi- 
sion I of Singareni Collieries Company Limited 
was justified in refusing to give the scale of 
Rs. 205 — 337 with effect from the 19th Novem- 
ber, 1968, to Sarvashri Ch. Ellaiah A. Rajaiah, 
V. Narsinga Rao and S. Satyanaraysna, Tur- 
bine Attendants in Power House, Ramagun- 
dam? If not, to what relief are the said work- 
men entitled ” 

This reference was taken on file as Industrial Dispute 
No, 8 1 of 1971 and notices were issued to the parties. 
For tne purpose of convenience the claimants, who are 
the workmen of Singareni Collieries Company Limited, 
Ramagundam Division, are ref°rred to as the petitioners 
and the Singareni Collieries Company Limited, Rama- 
gundam Division, is referred to as the respondent In 
the course of this Award. 

2. The petitioners are represented by Andhra Pra- 
desh Singareni Collieries Mazdoor Sangh (hereinaftei- 
referred to as the said Sangh) and the Vice-President 
of the said Sangh filed the claims statement contend- 
ing as follows : The petitioners are permanent employees 
under the respondent. All these four persons we-e 
working as Junior Drillers In the Prospecting Depart- 
ment of the respondent In the scale of Rs. 180—273 
till 25th August, 1967. With effect from 26th August, 
1867, the pefitioners were transferred to the Power 
House at Ramagundam. On transfer to the Powpr 
House the respondent stopped the payment of Rs. 30.00 
per month paid as allowance to each of the petitioners 
every month till 25th August, 1967. and continued pay- 
ment of wages in the scale of 180 — 273. In the Power 
House these four workmen were engaged in doing the 
work of erection of turbines under the direct supervi- 
sion of erection engineers and experts. The 'first tur- 
bine was commissioned on 19th November, 1968, and the 
second turbine was commissioned in July, 1969. Ever 
since the transfer of these four persons they attended 
to the work relating to the turbines. As per the wages 
schedule the turbine attendants are placed In the grade 


Sec. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


43 n 


of Rs. 205 — 337. Though these four persons as of right 
are entitled for the grade of Rs. 205—337 from the 
date they were transferred to the power house, having 
regard to the fact that the first turbine started working 
from 19th November, 1968, and that all power house 
staff was put on probation from 19th November, 1968, 
the petitioners claim that they should be placed in the 
grade of Rs. 205—337 atleast from 19th November, 1968, 
Rejecting the just and lawful claim of the workmen 
the respondent started paying the wages of turbine 
attendant in the grade of Rs. 205 — 337 with effect from 
1st June, 1069. The payment of wages is a condition 
of service. No change can be effected as regards the 
wages without following the procedure laid down under 
Section 9(A) of the said Act. Notice under Section 
9(A) dated 22nd September, 1968, was given effecting 
change in conditions of service of these four workmen 
with effect from 13th October, 1968. As such under no 
circumstances the respondent is justified in paying the 
reduced wages of Junior Driller till 13th October, 1968, 
So wages in the scale of Rs. 205 — 337 with effect from 
19th November, 1968, and allowance at the rate of 
Rs. 30.00 per month each from 26th August, 1967, to 
18th November, 1968, should be paid and if not an 
allowance at the rate of Rs. 30.00 per month each 
from 26th August, 1907 to 31st May, 1969, should be 
paid. 


3. The respondent filed a counter contending as 
follows: All the petitioners working as Assistant Dril- 
lers in the scale of Rs. 180 — 273 till their transfer 
having been found surplus at that time in the Prospec- 
ting Department were put at Power House to get train- 
ing as Turbine attendants. The power house was under 
erection and the first turbine started functioning satis- 
factorily in June, 1969. After that they were put on 
training as Turbine Drivers and they were paid acting 
allowance from 1st June, 1969, and they were promoted 
as Turbine Drivers from 1st October, 1909, in the grade 
of Rs. 205 — 337. Attending to work relating to turbine 
means only attending to work regarding completion of 
turbine erection etc., and it should not been working 
as Turbine Drivers. The duties and responsibilities 
attached to Turbine Drivers are quite different from 
that of attending to work relating to Turbine erection, 
So It is, baseless and untrue to say that these persons 
were working as Turbine Drivers since they came to 
the Power House. While it is true that the grade of 
Turbine Drivers Is Rs. 205—337, it should not automa- 
tically mean that these persons who were originally 
Junior Drillers at the time of transfer, should be given 
this grade as soon as they come to power house. It 
is not correct to say that these persons have done the 
job of erection oi Turbine. It is a contractor firm that 
has done the erection. They were engaged on the job 
training with the payment of due acting allowance 
from 1st June, 1969. Subsequently they were promoted 
as turbine drivers from 1st October, 1969. Even after 
transfer to the Power House tiff their promotion as 
Turbine Drivers on 1st October, 1969, they were getting 
their due wages as Junior Drillers besides the acting 
allowance as Turbine Driver from 1st June, 1969. The 
special allowance of the petitioners is called "Jungle 
Allowance” of Rs. 30.00 per month and this allowance 
is payable only to the staff of the prospecting Depart- 
ment who work in camps or in jungles as the case 
may be. If boring operations are conducted in a 
jungle area, jungle allowance will be paid to workers 
at the rate specified fo r the workers who attend to 
duty for at least four days in a week. Since the peti- 
tioners were worki'ng'from August, 1967 at Power House 
till their promotion the payment of jungle allowance 
therefore does not arise. The special allowance Is not 
being paid to any one in the Prospecting Department 
who do not work In the camp site. So the allegations 
made by the petitioner in this regard are not true and 
not based on facts and so the claim of the petitioners 
is liable to be dismissed. 


4. The dispute that is referred to this Tribunal for 
adjudication is whether the management of Ramagun- 


dam Division-I of Singarenl Collieries Company Limit- 
ed was justified in refusing to give the scale of 
Rs. 205 — 337 with effect from the 19th November, 1968, 
to Sarvashri Ch. Ellaiah, A. Rajaiah, V. Narsinga Rao 
and S. Satyanarayana, Turbine Attendents in Power 
House, Ramagundam, if not, lo what relief are the said 
workmen entitled'/ 

5. The relevant facts as gathered from the evidence 
on record may be briefly stated. The petitioners were 
originally working In the Prospecting Department of 
the respondent as Junior Drillers and they were in. 
the grade of Rs. 43—82 and they were also getting a 
special allowance of Rs. 30 per month. According to 
the petitioner they were entitled to the allowance of 
Rs. 30.00 per month as special allowance whereas the 
contention of the respondents representative Is that 
this allowance of Rs. 30.00 was given to them while 
working in the Prospecting Department only as "Jun- 
gle Allowance whenever they worked in the site. 
When power house at Godavari Khani In Ramagun- 
dam was under construction, the petitioners were 
transferred to Power House as seen from the evidence 
of M.W. 1 (A. M. Mathew), who is working as Senior 
Divisional Engineer, Power House, Godavari Khani. It 
is seen that the petitioners were given training on the 
turbine side before they were actually taken in as Tur- 
bine Drivers. After the petitioners were transferred 
to the Power House they were paid the special 
allowance of Rs. 30.00 for some time and afterwards 
it was stopped, and when the petitioners were Intimat- 
ed that the special allowance paid to them till August, 
1967, to June, 1968 by oversight would be deducted, 
they sent an application the original of Ex. W. 1 dated 
21st July, 1968, to M.W. l stating that they may be 
given the scale of Rs. 205—337 from August, 1967, in 
case they decided to make the deduction of special 
allowance paid and that If the said scale is not given 
and if any deduction is made it would be illegal deduc- 
tions. Now in the claims statement it is prayed that 
the respondent should be directed to pay the wages 
in the scale of Rs. 205 — 337 with effect from 19th 
November, 1968, and allowance at the rate of Rs. 30.00 
per month each from 26th August, 1967, to 18th Novem- 
ber, 1968, or pay the allowance at the rate of Rs. 30 
per month from 26th August, 1967, to 31st May, 1969. 
So far as the payment of allowance of Rs. 30.00 per 
month is concerned, it Is not covered by the reference 
and though the parties have let in some evidence as 
regards the payment of this allowance any finding now 
given on the question of the special allowance of 
Rs. 30.00 would be beyond the scope of the reference, 
So I do not propose to say anything about the special 
allowance that was given to the petitioners and it is 
open to the petitioners to take such other steps that 
they may be advised in the matter, so far as the ques- 
tion of special allowance Is concerned. 

8. So far as the Power House is concerned, the evi- 
dence in this case is that the first turbine was com- 
missioned in November, 1968 and that the second tur- 
bine was commissioned subsequently and now the 
evidence of M.W. 1 Is that the position of the Power 
House from November, 1968, to October, 1969, was only 
on a trial basis. 

7, It Is seen from Ex. W, 2, which is a copy of the 
representation dated 20th October, 1968, made by the 
petitioners, that that representation was made In view 
of the notice given by the respondent dated 22nd 
September, 1968, intending to change the service condi- 
tions by discontinuing the special allowance of Rs, 30.00 
per month from 13th October, 1968. A perusal of Ex. 
W. 2 also shows that the petitioners referred to their 
application, the original of Ex.W. 1 in it and stated that 
though they had sent that application and requested 
that their employment might be changed In accordance 
with the nature of duties assigned to them and that 
the appropriate scale of Rs. 205 — 337 may be given 
instead of giving that scale the management had given 
the notice stating that the remuneration would be re- 
duced without changing their designations and so the 



4312 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II — 


request to designate them as Turbine Drivers in the 
scale of Rs. 205 — 337 may be conceded. Subsequent 
to the original of Ex. W. 2 there is nothing to show 
whether the request of the petitioners were considered 
or not. Ex. W. 3 is the copy of the notice dated 19th 
November, 1968, issued by M.W. 1 which is to the effect 
that as advised by the General Manager nil persons 
working in the Power House for maintenance and run- 
ning staff would be on probation for a period of six 
months. Another notice the original of Ex. W. 4 dated 
28th May, 1969, was issued by M.W. 1 which is to the 
effect that the operation staff would be fixed in diffe- 
rent categories as per the Wage Board Recommenda- 
tions and that they would be paid acting allowance 
wherever there was difference in the present category 
and the proposed category from 1st June, 1969, till 
15th August, 1969, after which they would be made 
permanent in the categories depending upon the satis- 
factory reports regarding performance of their duties. 
Later on the respondent issued office orders the origi- 
nals of Exs. M. 1 to M. 4 dated 23rd October, 1969, to 
the present petitioners appointing them as Turbine 
Drivers on an initial salary of Rs. 205.00 per month In 
the Grade of Rs. 205—337 on probation for a period of 
six months with effect from 1st October, 1969. In view 
of the order the originals of Exs. M. 1 to M. 4, the 
petitioners were placed in the grade of Rs. 205 — 337 
only from 1st October, 1909. Now the claim of the 
petitioners Is that as the first turbine started working 
from 19th November, 1968, and as all the power house 
staff was put on probation from 19th November, 1968, 
they should have been placed in the grade of Rs. 205 — 
337 at least from 19th November, 1968. Now It has to 
be seen whether this claim of the petitioners is justifi- 
ed. 


8. So far as the petitioners are concerned the evidence 
of MW. 1 is that the petitioners continued to be only 
Junior Drillers till 1969 (l.e.) subseqcently to their 

transfer to the power house also that as W.W. 1 was 
the junior most he was put as a clerk In the stores 
and the other three petitioners were given work some 
times on the turbine side and that it is only from 
June, 1969 that W.W. 1 was given training on the 
turbine side, that out of the petitioners he first recom- 
mended three persons excluding W.W. 1 in April, or, 
May, 1969 for being taken on the turbines, that then 
W.W. 1 approached him and said that he also being 
the Junior Driller he should also be given a chance 
as Turbine Driver and so he recommended his case 
also. So the evidence of M.W.l shows that It Is only 
from June, 1969, that W.W. 1 was given training on 
the turbine side and that when he recommended the 
case of the other three petitioners, since W.W. 1 also 
approached him he also recommended his case. Ac- 
cording to W.W. 1 when they were transferred to the 
Power House they worked under foreign engineers 
when erection was going on, that they were given 
training in the turbines, that the erection and trial 
went on till November, 1968, and that M.W. 1 and the 
Rumanian Engineers were also instructing them at the 
time of eracting the power house. He admits that when 
he came to the sower house he was doing the duties 
at the stores only for some time. According to him 
he worked in the' stores for about five or six months 
and that thereafter he was working in the erection. So 
even from the evidence of W.W. 1 it is seen that he 
was working in the stores for some time. But It has 
to be seen whether W.W. 1 worked only for about five 
or six months as stated by him or till June, 1969, as 
stated by M.W. 1. At this stage reference may be 
made to' Ex W. 2. W W. 1 has also signed In that 
representation dated 20th October, 1968, which was in 
reply to the notice of the management dated 22nd 
September, 1968, wherein the conditions of service were 
sought to he changed bv stopping the special allowance 
of Rs. 30.00. The petitioners including W.W. 1 had 
also claimed the scale of Rs 205 337. Evidentlv 

M.W 1 Is making a mistake when he says that only 
from' June, 1969, that W.W. 1 was given training on 
the Turbine side. If really W.W. 1. was not working 


on the Turbine side prior to June 1969 and when he 
recommended the other persons according to him, in 
April of May, 1969, in the usual course even if W.W. 1 
requested him to recommend his case, he could not 
have recommended W.W. l’s case also because his 
evidence is to the effect that it is only from June, 
1969, that W.W. 1 was given training on the Turbine 
side. So I am satisfied that even by June, 1909 W.W. 1 
worked on the turbine side along with the other peti- 
tioners and that that is why W.W. 1 recommended his 
case also along with the other petitioners. 

9. Now it is seen from the original of Ex, W. 3 
that particular notice dated 19th November, 1968. 
was issued intimating all the persons working in the 
Power station for maintenance and running staff that 
they would be on probation for a period of six months 
and that this notice was Issued as advised by the Depu- 
ty General Manager. Now it 1 b only in view of the 
notice Ex. W. 3 that the petitioners’ contention is that 
they should have been given the grade of Rs. 205—337 
from 19th November, 1968, but not from 1st October. 
1969. The learned counsel for the petitioners con- 
tended that under Clause 2(b) (11) a probationer Is one 
who is provisionally employed to fllll in a permanent 
vacancy and has not completed three months service 
in that' post and so In the usual course If any person is 
placed on probation It should be only for a period of 
three months, but hot for a period of six months and 
so placing the petitioners on probation for a period 
of six months It itself opposed to the Standing Orders. 
However it is not necessary to go into this aspect of 
the matter, because the whole question now to be con- 
sidered is whether the petitioners should have been 
placed in the grade of Rs. 205 — 337 from 19th Novem- 
ber, 1908, as contended by the petitioners or whether 
the action of the respondent in placing the petitioners 
in the grade of Rs. 205—337 from 1st October, 1969, 
is correct. If Ex. W. 3 Is taken into consideration 
then the petitioners would be deemed to have been 
placed on probation from 19th November, 1968. Evi- 
dently the notice Ex. W. 3 was Issued because of the 
fact that the first Turbine was commissioned In Novem- 
ber, 1968. If Ex. W. 3 is taken into consideration then 
in the usual course after the completion of the pro- 
bation the petitioners should have been placed In the 
grade of Rs. 205 — 337 with effect from 19th Novomber, 
1968. 

10. Now it is contended by the respondent’s repre- 
sentative that it is only due to some mistake that this 
notice was issued on those lines and that the petition- 
erg are taking advantage of this mistake of The date 
and that it is only Exs. M. 1 to M. 4 which are the rele- 
vant documents and that it is only under these orders 
that the petitioners were appointed' as Turbine Drivers 
and placed on probation and so the respondent is per- 
fectly correct in giving the grade of Rs. 205 — 337 with 
effect from 1st October. 1909. No doubt it is seen from 
Exs, M. 1 to M. 4 that the petitioners were appointed 
as Turbine Drivers with effect from 1st October, 1969. 
Normally, no doubt, in view of Exs. M. 1 to M. 4 it 
can be said that the petitioners were appointed as Tur- 
bine Drivers with effect from 1st October, 1969. But 
In this case there are other documents and other evi- 
dence to show that the petitioners had been working 
in the power house on the turbine side from a date 
prior to 1st October, 1969. So if the management Issued 
any orders which are contradictory certainly the emp- 
loyees can take advantage of the earliest order in their 
favour and Insist that they should have been given the 
particular grade from the date mentioned in the earliest 
document. M.W. 1 says that the originals of Exs. W, 3 
and W. 4 were signed by him, that all the petitioners 
were on probation first and that action was taken as 
per the original of Ex. W. 4. If Exs. W. 3 and W, 4 
are taken into consideration then, certainly, the orders 
the originals of Ex. M. 1 to M. 4 passed by the manage- 
ment cannot be sustained. Ex. W. 3 clearly shows 
that after the first Turbine was commissioned all the 
staff in the power house connected with the mainte- 
nance and running were placed on probation for a 



Sec. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINa 29, 1894 


43 13 


period of six months and Ex, W. 3 also shows that it 
is only pursuant to the order of the Deputy General 
Manager that M.W, 1 Issued that notice. Ex, W, 4 
which is dated 28th May, 1969, also shows that the 
operation stall would be fixed in different categories 
as per the Wage Board Recommendations and that they 
would be paid the acting allowance. The evidence of 
M.W. 1 is that the petitioner were being given acting 
allowance. Now he wants to say that the period from 
November, 1968 to 28th May 1989, was not considered 
as probationary period and that it was considered only 
as training period. When once he himself had issued 
the notices the originals of Ex. W. 3 and W. 4, his 
present evidence that the period from November, 1968, 
to 28th May, 1969, was not considered as probationery 
period and that so far as the period from 28th May, 
1969, to 1st October, 1969, is concerned he must have 
advised the management that their probation should be 
extended cannot at all be accepted. If in spite of 
Ex. W. 3 the management Issued different orders subse- 
quently, certainly those orders cannot be valid orders. 
The respondents’ representative no doubt contended 
that when it is a case of promotion and when an em- 
ployee is appointed for the first time in the newly creat- 
ed post, even the seniormost employee will have no 
right and that it is left to the Management to fix up 
any employee and he relied upon the decision reported 
in Vishnu Sugar Mills v. their workmen [1960 
(II) LLJ, page 272 — Supreme Court]. But so far as 
the present case Is concerned It Is not a case where the 
petitioners are claiming any promotion to the new post. 
All that the petitioners say is that they should have 
been given the grade from 19th November, 1968, as 
per the earlier documents of the management but not 
from 1st October, 1969, and now the petitioners have 
satisfactorily established that it is only from 19th 
November, 1968, that they were placed on probation 
for the first time. So if the management had taken 
Into its head to issue some other orders subsequently 
quite contrary to their earlier orders without any 
reason or rhyme certainly the petitioners cannot be 
bound by any such orders. I am unable to accept the 
contention of the respondent’s representative that the 
petitioners are taking advantage of the mistake in the 
date and are claiming that their grade should be fixed 
from 19th November, 1988. No doubt it is also contend- 
ed by the respondent's representative that the peti- 
tioners after receiving increments raised their' protest 
only In the month of June, 1971, and that the manage- 
ment had acted only bonafide, but from Exs. W. 1 
and W. 2 it is clear that they have been agitating for 
this grade of Rs. 205—337 even from August, 1968. 
So there is no force In the contention of the respon- 
dent’s representative that the petitioners had made only 
a belated demand. On a consideration of the entire 
evidence in this case I am satisfied that the respondent 
is not justified in refusing to give the scale of 
Rs. 205—337 with effect from 19th November, 1968. 


11. For all the aforesaid reasons so far as the dispute 
referred to this Tribunal is concerned I hold that the 
management of Ramagundam Division-I of Singareni 
Collieries Company Limited was not justified in refus- 
ing to give scale of Rs. 205—337 with effect from 19th 
November, 1968, to Sarvasri Ch. Ellaiah, A. Rajaiah, V. 
Narsinga Rao and S. Satyanarayana, Turbine Atten- 
dees in the Power House, Ramagundam and that they 
are entitled to the scale of Rs. 205—337 with effect 
from 19th November, 1968, Instead of from 1st October, 


1969 and that the respondent should pay the difference 
of wages between 19th November, 1968, and 30th Sep- 
tember, 1969, to the petitioners within a month from 
the date of the publication of the award. 

Award is passed accordingly. 

Dictated to the Stenographer, transcribed by him and 
corrected by me and given under my hand the seal of 
this Tribunal, this the 2nd day of September, 1972, 

P. S. ARAUTH, 
Industrial Tribunal. 

APPENDIX OF EVIDENCE : 

Witnesses examined Witnesses examined 

for workmen : for employers : 

W.W. 1 S. Satyanarayana. M.W.l A.M. Mathew. 

Documents exhibited for workmen : 

Ex. W. 1 Letter dated 21st July, 1968, of four 
Junior Drillers addressed to the Erection 
Engineer, Power House regarding special 
allowance. 

Ex. W. 2 Letter dt. 20th October, 1968 of four 
junior Drillers addressed to the Agent, 
Ramagundam Divislon-I regarding special 
allowance. 


Ex. W. 3 Notice dt. 19th November, 1968 issued by 
Erection Engineer, 18 M.W. Power Station 
stating all the persons working in power 
station would be on probation for a period 
of 6 months. 


Ex. W.4 Notice dt. 28th May, 1969 of Erection 
Engineer, 18 M.W. Power station regard- 
ing fixing of different categories as per 
Wage Board recommendations acting 
allowance and permanency to operational 
staff. 

Documents exhibited for employers: 

Ex. M, l Copy of the appointment order dt. 23rd 
October, 1969 of the company communi- 
cated to Sri S. Satyanarayana, 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


IPaat II— 


4314 


Ex, M, 2 Copy ol the appointment order dt. 23rd 
October, 1069 of the company communi- 
cated to A. Rajaiah, 

Ex. M. 3 Copy of the appointment order dt. 23rd 
October, 1969 of the company communi- 
cated to V, Narasimha Rao. 

Ex. M. 4 Copy of - the appointment order dt. 23rd 
October, 1969 of the corripany communi- 
cated to Ch. Ellaiah, 

(Sd.) P. S. Ananth, 
Industrial Tribunal. 

[No. L-2112/30/71-LRIL] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 15 th September 1972 

8.0. 2865.— Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the management of Sendra 
Bansjora Colliery at present under the management 
of Bharat Coking Coal Limited Post Office Jiiaria, Dis- 
trict Dhanbad, and their workmen in respect of the 
matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 


And whereas the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 


Now. therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Cen- 
tral Government hereby refers the said dispute for 
adjudication to the Central Government Industrial Tri- 
bunal (No. 1), Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A 
of the said Act. 


Schedule 


“Whether the action of the management of Sendra 
Bansjora Colliery at present under the man- 
agement of Messrs Bharat Coking Coal 
Limited, Post Office Jharia, District Dhan- 
bad, in stopping Shri Md. Kurban, Fitter 
Helper from work with effect from the 6th 


December, 1971, and further denying him per- 
manency in the post of Fitter Helper is justi- 
fied? If not, to what relief is the workman 
entitled and from what date?” 

[No. L/2012/23/72-LRII,] 
KARNAIL SINGH, Under Secy. 


(>spt ’tfu tDpttt Puipt) 

fcpTt, 1 5 19 7 2 

4T0WT0 286 5 — TT: %RrtT *TWR; TTT | 

RTuna: R fafafsre fwff % Jr TiTafiTr 

ffitpr rft ^ftfVr 4?tsr % srsrfsrasr 

% snfffi srfwr, fw sr-rsrr? % waror n 

sftr Gfrfonrf % 
feTTT f^PTPT I; 

pftT Td: TnftT RCITF U4T fTTTT Tl T 

fair TTRT Tra-ffa RRHcfrt; 

m:, TT, TV;frfT4T fffiTTC SlfsrFffiTT, 1947 ( 1947 
14) ^ STHT 10 -TTErm ( l) % *3*% (w) SHT 
TT WTIffi TCt f TWIT TdTTTrT 
Tt T4T tWtTT 4fr STITT l-% % TSTT 
HTTP - trfffiTTT, (TIFT l) TTTTT 4ft 

?TTTfTWTT $ fair fRaffHrT TTlft | I 

***** 

“ffiTT ffiTU TfU TftfHTTt TT SrsPSPr* Tt RRT 
vpiTT 4TTf%T 4TT fuffiyS' % TWSRTT % STiJlR 
STfun, fW SWR % TP^T 4ft sft 

TT(pr*? fTHT Tt 6 ftRRT, 1971 T 

4rrr ^ ^ srfrfafcT fan; % Tar 

tt uirPur & ^ttt tt ^ 1 4ft Tr4nrt wTtfrcr |? 
(ft 474 ttt sr^ftr Trr faff firffa 

§ $?" 

[TWTT?r«»/2012/23/72-T5ro*nTo 2] 
TTfiT fT?, TTT TfffiT 1 



Sec. 3(ii)] 


43k 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER ll, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


Department of labour and Employment 

New Delhi, the 29th June 1972 

S.O. 2866-— Whereas by the notification of the Gov- 
ernment of India in ir.e Ministry of Labour and Reha- 
bilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) No. 

S.O. 5i:s, dated the 21.th December, 1971, the Central 
Government had declared the coal industry to be a 
public utility service for the purposes of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (14. of 1947), for a further 
period of six months from the 8th January, 1972. 

And, whereas the Central Government is of opinion 
that public interest requires the extension of the said 
period by a further period of six months; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
the p 'oviao to sub-clausa (vt) of clause (n) of section 
2 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby declares the said industry 
to be a public utility service lor purposes of the said 
Act lor a further period of six months from the 8th 
July, 1972. 


[No. F.S.11025/15/72-LR.I.] 
■'JiT Rk flBBR ffRFT 
df fkft, 29 ^T, 1972 

qff o SRo 28 6 6— BR: kkR BRUT % RKcT tt VhK % 
sRB kd 54-4 fa BRTBR («HT ?fk ffRBTC fk'HTT ) k 
’JRRT Ho RT o RTo 513 Rnkf 29 fkPRR, 1971 3TKT 

mm mk k kkfm fkTR kRfdBB-, 1947 (1947 
RiT 14) % RBkrff % fr=riT 8 Rdkt, 1 9 7 2 % H?: RET 

k mk ^TnRoffR Hi farr Bk EWER BBT kfaeT ffTBT BT ; 

5jk BR : %ktB BmPC k TTB | k kr %T *t RRR 
mTTBfa B7M5: BTB k kr BffRTRfR 47 fad BXTBT 
kfftlR | ; 

br : m, kkfk farr? uTsrfwr, 1947 ( 1947 

44 14) k R1TT 2, % k? (®) fiRR kr (VI) % mp 
am srm »rfkmf k brr kkRBR % RRkRt % fkj 8 
t$RTf, 1972 R BIR k kr BRBTBftl % fatr Rk RR- 
BTft %*it kffR Bmt | i 

(ko Bffo TTR-1 1 025/ 1 5/7 2-^omToI] 


New Delhi, the 3rd July 1972 

S.O. 28G7.—PW A/Sect, 15/ (I) Railway s/MLnes/ Oil 
fields/ ATS/72. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section II) of section 15, read with section 24, of the 
Payment of Wages Act. 1936 (4 of 1936), the Central 
Government hereby appoints the Presiding Officer of 
the Central Government Industrial Tribunal at Calcutta, 
constituted under section 7A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), to be also the authority to hear 
and decide for the District of Burdwan, In the State of 
West Bengal, all claims arising out of deductions from 
the wages or dcluy in payment of the wages of persons 
employed in that District in the railways air transport 
services, mines and oilfields. 

[No. S. 31012/9/72/LR.III.] 


R$ feft, 3 1972 

TTo-Bro 286 7 — ft S®5^/'TfRRT° 15( l) krf/'TIR/ 
kffik/iToftoniro/7 2. — BRjk RtTB RfafaBR, 1936 
( 1936TT 4) frura 24fTBr«I I Tf4Ttjm 15k TTUTD 
( l) 3PT Sim Nfkfr 5fT SrfffT RBI JIT kjftB BBpR 
nRRSm BktfkP fRRTB kRpdRE, 1947 ( 1947 RT 14) 
k am ? -T % Rffk BfcR kftT irw kkfk> kkRR, 
^rrrti % frsTBtff kkfkr k, RfkRt rhtr ttrr it 
rakra k# it kr b, RiR-TfTmr RRik, nh krc rr 
fra it fktfjRi rafddfr k mrj/T it kkr a Br br^g % 

B31B f kt B BBB B'Bt RTRt k Bk fffkdB 

% kff k trifarkr fRORR TTft % i 

[R ot[R- 31012/9/7 2/C[BBTT-III] 


S.O. 2868.— PWA/Scct. 15(1) Railways/Mines/Oil 
fieIds/AXS/72, — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (1) of section 15, read with section 24, of the 
Payment of Wages Act, 1936 (4 of 1936), the Central 
Government hereby appoints the Presiding Officer of 
the Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 2), 
Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), to be also the authority 
to hear and decide for the District of Dhanbad In the 
State of Bihar all claims arising out of deductions from 
the wages, or delay in payment of the wages, of persons 
employed in that District in the railways, air transport 
services, mines and oilfields. 

[No. S. 31012/9/72/LR.III.] 

RT° RRo 28681 — ft ^BfBTo 1 5 ( 1 ) 

krt/kt/ ctR«for/q° fk pro/ 72. — BR^ft bttr 

wfkfkTR, 1936 ( 1936 Rff 4) k HIB 24 

% RIB k5B ST7T 1 5 k BBtrm ( 1 ) am 5TTrf 
kkfr ^i srftB Rrk kkB hbr tp^jm kk- 
f»Bfi fBBTB kfffBBB, 1947 ( 1947 14) k aiB 

7 -rt % BiftB ksd kfra bthtt wkfttkp wfurmr 
(bo 2 ), srbr % ftskk sftmft k, 
rm it bwi fkr kr it, 

¥TB Bk kr B fBBtfkr -wifddBT k BB^ft it *fikcft 
ir BT BBg^t % BBTB ii kt B BfER Bk BTBt k 
ftT fdfdBBT % fBB Bt aiffiBkl fBBRB RiBTl | I 

[?fo itb- 31012/ 9/72-HR BTCo III] 



4316 


[Part II— 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 , I 972 /ASVTNA 29 , 1894 


ORDERS 

New Delhi , the 7 th June 1972 

S.O. 2869. — Whereas the industrial disputes specified 
in the Schedule hereto annexed (hereinafter referred 
to as the said disputes) are pending before Shri Aftab 
Ahmad, Presiding Officer, Industrial Tribunal with 
headquarters at Kanpur; 

And whereas Shri Aftab Ahmad’s services have ceased 
to be available; 


2, 76 of 1971. . G.O. No, 24^3/70- The Staff Manager, 

LRIII dated Sep- Punjab National 

tember, 5, 1970. Bank, Parliament 

Street, New Delhi, 
through the General 
Secretary, AH India 
Bank Employees Fe- 
deration, 26/104, 
Birhana Road, Kan- 
pur- 1, 


Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 7 A and sub-section ( 1 ) of section 33 B of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947 ), the Central 
Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal 
with Shri II. S. J. Naqvi as the' Presiding Officer with 
headquarters at Kanpur, withdraws the proceedings in 
relation to the said disputes from Shri Aftab Ahmad 
and transfers the same to Shri S. IT, J. Naqvi, Presid- 
ing Officer, Industrial Tribunal, Kanpur, for the dis- 
posal of the said disputes, with the direction that the 
said Tribunal shall proceed with the proceedings from 
the stage at which they are transferred to it and dis- 
pose of the same according to law. 

Schedule 


SI. A.ti. cue No. Notification No. Names of the parties. 
No. and date 


12 3 4 


75 of 1971 , G.O. No. L12012/’ Th: General Manager, 
35/71-LRII, Adm., Allahabttu 
dated September Bank, 14, India Ex- 
2, T971. change Placo, Cal- 

cutta and its work- 
man Sri Sudhir Ku- 
mar, through Secre- 
tary, V. P. Bank Em- 
ployees Union, C'o 
Punjab National 
Bank, Shyamganj, 
Bareilly. 


3. 79 of 1971. G.O. No. L 42012/ The Regional Mana- 
17/71-LRIII, per. Food Corpora- 

dated Septemcr 9, no n of India, 4, Go- 
1971 . khlay Marg, Luck- 

now and their work- 
men. 


4. 81 of 1971. L. 17012/5/71- The Zonal Manager, 

LRI dated Octo- General Assurance 

ber, 30, 1971. Society Limited, 

Northern Zo n o, 36, 
Netaji SubhasRoad 
DolhiVs. The Pre- 
sident, Genoral Assu- 
rance Employees 
Union, D-16/1 Paper 
Mill Colony, Luck- 
now. 


5. 1 1/72 L. 12025/2/72- The Mnager, Char- 

LRIII dated Ja- lered Bank, Mahat- 
nuary 24, 1972. ma Gandhi Marg, 
Kanpur and the Se- 
ctary, U.P. Bank 
Employees Union 
C/o Hindusta Com- 
mercial Bank Limited 
MesiOnRoad, Kan- 
pur- 1, 

6. 15 of 1972 L. 12012/106/71- The Regional Mana- 

LRIII dated Fe- ger. Bunk of Baroda 
bruary 24 1972- 4 , Park Road, Luck- 

now and the General 
Secretary, U.P. Bank 
Employees Federa- 
tion, 26/ lo6, Birhana 
Road, Kanpur. 


[No. L- 12025 / 14 / 72 -LRIII, ] 



Sec. 3(H)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4317 


m^iir 

Ff fTFft, 7, ^T, 1972 

FTo Flo 286 9- — FF: ?FF -3'MTT4 FFTFT it FWlPlF fF4TT & ^kt FIFTF TFT pFFTF F;E 4711 % 

«ft ftfftf fitff, 'ftepftF FfFFTfr, FWtfFF Ffy+^i, fftmf % wi FpHd' I ; 

FtT TF-' «ft FTFFTF Ft +Hii} FF TTFTF -ifl 1 

ff: , ff, Ft f r Pri: P ettf F fafETF , 1947 ( 1947 FT 14 ) ^ktpt 7F fTtfft 33 (g) ^Timn ( 1 ) fitt fff 

FpfFFt 44 FFtF FTTt fF %7ftF dT+'K, F^iRT, IT 37 i/WlPlF FpFFTF FfSF FTFt | PFT% 'ftFTTftF FfilFTft Ft FFo it^o 
^ ° FFFt |t4, fFFFT ijWFF 4H4,' fftFT, Fk Ft TITW FjFTF % TFT fFFTF % FRT^ FIFFTpIFf FT 41471 %Ft £ Ft* 
FF TFT fFFTF F fFFCTF % fr tt # rr^o n^o #o ^f^ft , 'fliTfftd FfFFTtt, Ft«ftPl 4 FfFFTF, FIF47 Ft ^F Pf%F F TFT 
FFTfTF FTFt t pF T4T fPeTTF, FtT FPT TFt FFF 4 Fnf4Tjft FkTT pFF TT 44 T?r FFkF 4ft f£ % FtT faPET F FF- 
4 1 4 TFFT pTFTFT F^TTl I 


FrgFt 


FF ifo 

>FT FTFFT Fo 

FtST^FFT F 0 FIT FTttg 

PTFT T4TFIT 


1 

2 

3 

4 



I. 1971 FT 75 TTo FTo To]^ 12012 / 35 / 71 -FT ’FTTo^JT^riFraF smTo, FW4TF t'F, 14, ^FTT 

III, FTftg fFFRT 2, 1971 j HF#F *rPT, FFFtTT F4T TF% F^4Rt 

Ft TJiftT |*)K, FTTTd FpFF, To 'fto 
#F FFFTTT 4pTFT, 4RT FFTF FFFF 
fF, 5?nFJiF, skft i 


2. 1971 FT 76 


3. 1971 FT 79 


FTo FTo FTo To 2 4/3/ TO-ffFTtJIII 
FlftF pTFRT 5, 19 70 


FTFRt F?F, FFI9T, FFTF FFFF tlT, 

k, Ff fVrdt, JITI EFT FfFF, 


FTF ?fT4T 4k F^FITt FfTFT 2 6/104 
fFTSTFT TtF, FTF'JT-l 


FTo Flo To IT^ 420 12/l 7/7 1 -ttf FIT 

III, TTTtg fFFRTT 9,1971 


P? TtFFF FTF7 FT dFTTkFF 5TTF ^f?FT, 
4, FtFF FPT, FFTT F4T ^F% FF- 
Firt 


4. 1971 FT 31 rr^o 1 70 1 2 / 5 / 7 1-PF FTT FTf, TTTtg, fT FTTF FTT 7 ", T-TFT rr^FlTF FtFFTTt 

FFJ4^ 3 0, 1971 pTpTTT, FTTF FTF, 36, FTHft 4FIF 

TTT, fTFTt FFET fF TpTTF -4 3 •> F I- 
^F FFFRt ^PFTF ft- 1 6/ 1, ^FT pFF 
FtFtFt, FFFF 

5 . n/72 iTFo 12 02 5 / 2 / 72 -FF FTT III FITtg FF4Tt pF F?TT^, Flit f'F, F^TrFT Fttft FEt, 

24, 1972 FTFJ 7 TFT FpFF ^ofto FF FFFTTt 

FfFFF FTFTP^^TFIF FtniffTF #'F 
fFfF$T, F7TF ftT, FTF^T— 1. 




43i8 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II— 


12 3 4 


6- 1972 W 15 20 12/1 0/6/7 l-tT?r HR III TRft ft TftFFT , Hft HIT ftft, 4 

TRRl' 2 4, 1972 Tift Tft, vt’fftft ftHI TSFlfft', Ho 

fro 4ft TETTfr ftftspf 2 6/ 10 6, 
fa<£MT fft, TFFJ7 I 


[%o tTT-12025/14/72-TH HR III] 


New Delhi . the 17th June 1972 

S.O. 2870 — Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers In relation to the Punjab National Bank and 
their workmen In respect of the matters specified in 
the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudi- 
cation to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
Jabalpur, constituted under section 7A of the said Act; 

Schedule 

“Whether the action of the management of Punjab 
National Bank In terminating the services of 
Shrl JaRdish Prasad Chauhan, as a probationer 
peon with effect from the 27th August, 1970 
and treating him as being on continuous ser- 
vice as peon-cur/i-guard with effect from the 
27lh November, 1970 was justified? If not, to 
what relief is he entitled?” 

[No. L-l 20 12/24/ 72-LRIII.j 


ft fftft, 17 SfT, 1972 


«Ro HTo 2870. — ftp ftftft IRftR ft Tift f fft 

’-H/iyfl ir ft fa far fwff % ft* Jr thth ftnR 
it fft) 4 ft Hft ft 4 ft I ft % ftp ft ftft- 

ftT ftdTh fa'H'HM ; 

vV< Hft RTTR tJW ft«4i4 ft ri||i|(7f4dH % 

fft fa <4 fft TOI q its 4ft HuitirTi ^ ; 

HR:, HH, fW7 ftftftpl, 1947 ( 1947 

ftT 14) ft SRI 10 ft TffflRT ( l) $ (t) TRI 

ftftft ftT ftfa ftft ft* TOP FTTTRT 

BW fftlH ft Bfttf HfirfftiT ft HR 7-T % Hftff dfsT 


%ftft TOR ftftfw HfarRH HTRJP ft 

^ fftr fftfft ftftt 1 1 




'ftr ft 5pfttw W ft[FT ft TfaftHruft HWft 
% tRT *t ftl ft 27 H4W, 1 970 it THR! Tft ftp ft 
27'IHLR, 1970% WRTft ft THT ^ FH % fft-R ftl ff 
Rift ft ftfTH 4 vi-T'-t 4ft ft TftET U«TT ft ftRHift iftlftt- 
fft ft ? fffc ftl ft HI fft HftTtT ftl ffft?R | ? 


[ftlT CP-To 1201 2/24/72-TTRTo HRoIH] 


New Delhi, the 21st June 1972 

S.O, 2871. — Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relution to the Indian Overseas Bank and 
their workmen in respect of the matter specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute lor adjudication; 

Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 7A, and clause (d) of sub-section (1) of sec- 
tion 10, of the Industrial Disputes AcL, 1947 (14 of 1947), 
the Central Government hereby constitutes an Indus- 
trial Tribunal of which Thiru G. Gopinath shall be the 
Presiding Officer, with headquarters at Madras and 
refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said 
Tribunal. 

Schedule 

“Whether the action of the management of the 
Indian Overseas Bank in dismissing from ser- 
vice Shri B. K, R. Pal with effect from the 30th 
November, 1970 is justified? If not, t 0 what 
relief is he entitled?” 

[No. L. 12012/ 25 /72/LRIII.] 


ft fftft, 21 ftH, 1972 
Tl° HT° 28 71. — HR: %ftft RTftR ft TFT 

fft ^ftr TTPftS: Hd'yft % ftftfft fftft ft ft* % 



Sec. 3(H)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVlNA 29, 1894 


4319 


mTOTR tT Jr trerg: fTTDrrr ?fVr ^ 4 % 4nfom % 
41 T TTjp ?rWtf»FT f44TT faTRTT t , 

TYt TT: TT471T T4T fTTR 47) 

% Pi i', fTTflTT 47T4T 4TOTPl -HHSHTf % ; 

tit:, tit, TTariPtr Ptttt JTftrPrrtT, 1947 (1947 

TT 14) 47) ETPT 7-47 nftT rpt 10 47f TqtTPT (l) % 
TCT (n) STTT JTTccT NfTTTT TT TTFT |it , %7fpr TrreTT 
TTIJRT rriT y’UjtPpt: TpITTT ofoT 47TT) t, pTF% 

TtCTTrT Nfirerd 41 f ifro tWItti ^t4, Ptttt jjwttt 
rtpt ir ?14T nIt btt frm 47 't ttt wflreTTr 47t ^m- 
fHijfTT 47 Pt^ PrfpTTT TTrf) % | 


v^\ 

"44f ?fTTT NtaRTTlT % 47 TT-T-ir^^r 4?f, Nt 41 o 
%0 URo Ttt TT 3 0 TTFSpr, 1970 T 431 *T TT^Tr 
4TGT Tl TKTTf 'TFTtfTT £ I Tfe Tgf TT 4f| pF74f TT- 
mi 471 fTTIT | ? 


[n° nTTo 12012/25/ 7 2/17"! 0 TTRo III] 


Ncii) Delhi, the 22nd June 1972 

S.O. 2872. — Whereas the Centrul Government is of 
opinion Hint an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the Bank of Baroda and their 
workmen in respect of the ina'-ter specified in thc 
Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause id) of sub-section ill of section 10 of the 
Industrial Dispu'.os Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudica- 
tion to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
Delhi constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

“Whether the action qf the management of Bank of 
Baroda in depriving Shri Kartar Singh’ Chawla 
of the post of Head Cashier 'C’ at Ambala City 
branch of the Bank with effect from the 27th 
July, 1971 is justified? It not, to what relief is 
he entitled?” 

[No. L. 12012/1 8/72/LRIII.] 
Tf 2 2 TR, 19 72 

c\ 

TT° 7TT° 2872 — TT: ifTRfpT irnpR 41 TFT £ 

£ Pf 'Jims: ^1,41 ir ftrfrfe: Pmf) % ttt it 

£47 tut ttftt d rtts fTTtwr ttIt 4: 

41 t i re, ^itPiPn-, frm frTFTT'T £ ; 


TllT zft. TTWPr T4T fTTTT 44 ^rrarPreTT 

47 Prn; f44f4m tttt TTBTiT OF?, iff 

TIT., TT, ?fl?ITpT47 f44T4 WpafrmT, 1947 ( 1947 

47fl4) 47[ STTT 10 44 TTSim ( l) % (t) STCT 

7FFT TfFFTT 471 refrrr 4FT §tt TT47TT FT^Sm 

T4T fTTTT 47> T4T TlfTpRir 4?t STTTT 7-47 % smfBT 4f5T 

%rfk TTrere nrWtPre TiftreTw (fcrrV) 4d rerefTTiT 

% f4pT prcfWT TTcft | I 

“44T T47 FIT 47 WT-retm 47), NT 47TTTT 

fTfl TT4M1 47> 27 NTTf, 1971 R T47 4?) NFTTTT 
4?T 4TF3T if aOTT Tt47fw ‘tV' 47 43 ?T 4f4rT 4*3% 4?) 
47T^4Tfr -TnmfdT t ? Tfc T^r efr TT Pfr TTyrtT 
T473R | ? 

[Tto hTo 120 12/ 18/ 7 2/h7To 4Ro III] 


New Delhi, the 23 rd June 1972 

S.O. 2873. — Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the Punjab National Bank 
and their workmen In respect of the matter specified 
in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 

Now therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government horeby refers the said dispute for adjudi- 
cation to the Centra’. Government Industrial Tribunal, 
(No. 2), Dhanbad constituted under section 7A of the 
said Act. 

Schedule 

“Whether the action of the management of the 
Punjab National Bank in not adhering to rota- 
tion in the matter of providing temporary 
employments to Shri Arjun Prasad in the 
Gaya Branch Office of the Bank Is justified? 
If not, to what relief if any, is the workman 
entitled ” 


[No. L.12012/27/72/LRIII.1 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II — 


4320 


Wf 23 j^/T, 1972 

HTTo WT° 28 73 W7T: TpT 

| f% V* ^ f4Wt % *fki R 

tfw 3TO 

ff RT3I3 fdhkT) 

?rk 37TO yiT^R f % ^ wkftfiTO iw^ fasTTTTR t ; 

jr'fr rprC, b « °h i ■> 34tf f%WT^ s P , 't 'WinPi'dn* 

% f^rir fMrfsRi 'fPTr wTOfrq urofr % ; 


tr?r;, ww, wkftfw fawre wfsrfwi, 1947 (1947 
T r 14) enn 10 itt swetpt (1) % (w) arm 

y ;?;i irrfafFTT W STTk ijiT, WTOK 9,(14 S I < I 

p44T^ wt bw ^rfsrf^mr “ft etpt 7— w % ^ 1 y) t wfer 
%T^q- ^PTITK w V'/ l fhT wfclTOTW (?f 2 ), SRWTO 4ft RTBr 
f^RT % fm f^ftm TRcfr £ I 


wjfgwr 


T^TTO •kdN ?1 to % SR^R-TOSTf 4^ % F^TT 

JirnaT ft «fl" wttr srtk qii Tt^rnrc 

% jrr^r 5r wkV-srkl tt r m *fI- sfkwrf '4i4lP'H 
% ? srf3T h^tT, fit '-totr faro trPTBVr w, wfa «Ftf £, 
5*<tr t ? " 

[W° TOCo 120 12/ 27/17^0 5TPO 3] 


New Delhi, the 29th June 1972 

SO 2874 — Whereas the Central Government Is of 
oninion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the State Bank of India and 
their workmen in respect of the matter specified m 
the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And wh-reas the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 

Now therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
bv clause (d) of sub-section (11 of section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 19471 the Cen- 
tral Government hereby refers the said dispute for 
adjudication to the Central Government Industrial 
Tribunal, Calcutta constituted under section 7A of the 
said Act. 

SCHEDULE 

“Whether by virtue of the nature of duties perfor- 
med by him, Shri Keshab Saran Bhattacharjee, Cash 
Coolie of the State Bank of India, Calcutta is entitled 
to the remuneration of a Clerk? If so, from which 
date?” 


[NO.L.12012/34/72/IRIII] 


Hi fcwfr, 29 Tj-d, 1972 

wr° 23 74.— w 47FIT ^ ^ 

% f% *r fakftro: Iwri % ^ % 

ifidT — ' ~ 


R H7H15 fnwpm wk utr- 

mp ^fRfrfWTOr fWTR fWRFT fc ; 

Wk dir:, 7PTOR TTW fkl? *61 TOPTfwtfWR 

% fair ftsf fWci dPHT ttottV f, ; 

Wd;, W5T, wkrrftTdi fdTTd WfNfHdd, 1 947 ( 1 947 
dT 1 4) ^ SJRT 1 0 # TTIRTT ( 1 ) % (w) £PT Hdcd 

wkfBff 4T tfdk dP?r |TT, %^3T 7TTOT7 ^h^TTT 

i347T fddTT 4T ^TfT wfsrfdiPT # (TFI 7TO % WTtfld dfed 

%^kr ht+it wtwiPid. wftPTPTT 4 wtwtt ^rnrfdwd 
%■ fe|h fd4 fSRT T'df ^ I 

Wdlffl 

"wi «jY %T7I4 'HTTIHT4, WTO r, 

=tiH 'Tied r % TIts , WTd afPT j%rr rpT drkdf 
fnffw % wrenr qr f^rPTO tt qrkwiTTT qkr drr 

I? 

dfd ffr fdTO HRte W ? 

[Ho mqo 1 2012/34/72/wko WRo III] 


S.O. 2875. — Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the State Bank of India and 
their workmen in respect of the matter specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 

Now therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause (d) of sub-section ( 1 ) of section in of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 19471, the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby refers the said dispute for adjudica- 
tion to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
No. 2, Dhanbad constituted under section 7A of the 
said Act, 


Schedule 

“Whether the action of the management of the 
State Bank of India, Hazarlhagh in terminat- 
ing the services of Shri Rajendra Prasad, 
Cashier with eil'ect from the 6th .September, 
1969 is justified? If not, to what relief is he 
entitled?” 


[No. L.12012|37|72|miII.] 



Sec. 3 (ii)] 


4^21 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 59, ,1894 


FTc 5TT o 2 8 75. — AT: fafar TTFF 4 ft 7JT 

& fa ft a att ?? 1 AT*rfa A fafafaF ffafa f tf a 

AF #F ATF sfaFTI A AR? faAfafa A'F AT% 

f4fft % far ^ft^frfrpc fan? faFATA t ; 

MF TcF, Ffafa AR7F ATT fan? fa iFTTfaBlAT 
% fair ffaFsiT F^TT TfafaA AAMfa & ; 

^TrT:, AT, AtfafaF fan? ^rfsrpTEnT, 1947 ( 1947 
FT 1 4) fa AFT 1 0 fa AASTFT ( 1 ) % F^T (?) 5FT 
TTFT fafafa FT TIFT FAT ^it, %fafa A^FF Ad?nAT 
att farre ft w ?rfsrfam fa sift 7-f f Afar AfeT 
Ffafa AFFR AfafTfAF AfTFRA #0 2, TTTT? -fa 
•ATTfHfaH % Pi 1 * fa?ftlT tie'll f> I 

*fa^ 

fan tf ^rm ^ffan, ttfwa % aft n?F 
fa fa Tins ATT?, TTFfa?r fa fariAT Ft 6 fAFFT, 
1969 ? AART Ffa fa Ffaf l^t -AlfalfaT | ? Tfe T^T, 
fa ?? f?A A^Jrffa ST gWI ^ ? 

[Ao FT a 12012/37/7 2/Afa° AFo 3 ] 


New Delhi, the 1st July 1972 

S.O. 2876- — Whereas the industrial dispute specified in 
the schedule hereto annexed (hereinafter referred to as 
the said disputes) are pending before Shri Mithan Lai, 
Presiding Officer, Industrial Tribunal with heudquarters 
at Allahabad; and whereas Shri Mithan Lai’s ser- 
vices have ceased to be available; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 7A and sub-section (1) of section 33B of the 
Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal 
with Shri S. H. J. Naqvi as the Presiding Officer with 
headquarters at Kanpur, withdraws the proceedings In 
relation to the said disputes from Shri Mithan Lai and 
transfers the same to Shri S. H. J. Naqvi, Presiding 
Officer, Industrial Tribunal, Kanpur, for the disposal of 
the said disputes with the direction that the said Tri- 
bunal shall proceed with the proceedings from the stage 
at which they are transferred to it and dispose of the 
same according to law. 

Schedule 


SI. 

No. 

Notification No. & date 

Names of the parties 

I 

2 

3 


I. S. O. No. 2213 dated the 22 nd June, The Regional Mana- 
i9 6 7- ger, The Oriental 

Fire and General 
Insurance Company 
Limited, Bhargwa 
Estate, The Mall, 


T 2 3 

Kanpur Si their wo r 
man. 

2 . S. O. No. 4425 dated the 22 nd De- Do. 

cembcr, 1967. 


[Ni. F. 7 o't4 ,'66-LR,TV LR-I] 


?f ffafa, 1 TFlfa 197 2 

TToTT’ 2 8 76- TT: FTA ART?? A'jAfa A fafafaF fafa- 
ffa fan? (ffar ta % tericj ftf fan? fat ttt |) 
fa fA3T FTF, Tfafafa fafafrfa, AfafTfAF fadF 7 ? 
AiSATF? ^TTfTTTTT, % ARM FffarT f ; 

fa? FT : fa ffiST AIM fa ATTtr AT ATF»£T ?fa Tfa ; 

AT : AT AlfafaTT faTK AfafTTA, 1947 ( 194 7 
FT 14) fa TFT 7-F A>TSTFT 33(i?) fa ATTFT ( 1 
TFT AFT fafafa T?I AAtA TFT gT Ffafa ATFR 
SFT, FT fafafAF AffafFA faSd TFfa | f?AF facSlfar 
AftTFifa fa FTo rnjo Alfa ^flA, ffaTFT ASATAT FTTJT 
faAT, Afa fa fT5T FIT A ATT fan? A BTTJ FTTTrf^fa 
FfaTAA Tfa % Afa AT ATT faTK F fa TFT % fad fafa- 
fTT AfTFFT, TTATA fa ^A ffaT T TIT AT fad TFfa 
| fa A4T AfadrTr Afa ATT ATI A TIT A TITAfa fan 
falA TT TT AT A-riffa fa fa | far faffa % AT ATT AATT 
fTTATT Tfal I 

ATMfa 

TT AfiJ^TT Ac far nfaT fan? % TM'TTT 
A® 

1 Flo ATo To 2213 E^faT AWE, faffa-AF 

TFfar 22 3jr, 1947 WT <fa MTTF ^fa- 
fall TAT fa fFfriA, 
nr FT I I^3A ; AIF far 
fttjt far AT% FA. 
FIT | 

2 FT 0 ATo Ao 4425 TfafT 

Trfra 22 fanTT, 1907 

[Ao Flo 7 0/l 4/6 6— t^F o AFo 4/iTFo ARC |] 



4322 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part ll — 


New Delhi, the 1th October 1972 

S.O. 2877. — Whereas an Industrial dispute exists bet- 
ween the employer in relation to the management oi 
Hindustan Zinc Limited at Zawar Mines, Udaipur and 
their workmen represented by the Zawar Mines Maz- 
door Sangh; 

And whereas the said employers and the workmen 
have by a written agreement in pursuance of the pro- 
visions ot sub-section (1) of section 10A of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947) agreed to refer 
the said dispute to arbitration of the person mention- 
ed therein and a copy of the said arbitration agree- 
ment has been forwarded to the Central Government; 

Now therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of 
sub-section (3) of section 10A of the Industrial Dis- 
putes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the said arbitration agreement which 
was received by it on the 29th September, 1972, 


( AGREEMENT) 

(Under S. 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947) 


Between 

Name of parties; 

Representing employer— Shri V. D, Bakshi, Chief 
Personnel Officer, 


Rep resenting workmen—- Shri Shankar Das, Secre- 
tary, Zawar Mines Mazdoor Sangh. 

It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the 
following industrial dispute to the arbitration of Shri 
R. J. T. D.’ Mello, Chief Labour Commissioner, Gov- 
ernment of India, New Delhi. 


(i) Specific matter in dis- What should be daily 
pute working hours of the 

general shift workers 
of Zawar Mines. 


(ii) Details of the parties Hindustan Zinc Limited, 

to the dispute includ- Zawar Mines and the 

ing the name and ad- workmen of Zawar 

dress Of the establish- Mines, P.O. Zawar 

ment or undertaking Mines Udaipu r (Rajas- 

involved. than). 

(iii) Name of the union, Zawar Mines Mazdoor 

if any, representing Sangh. 

the workmen' in ques- 
tion 

(iv) Total number of 2500. 
workmen employed in 

the undertaking affect- 
ed 

(v) Estimated number of 170 
workmen affected or 
likely to be affected 
by the dispute 


We further agree that the decision of the Arbitra- 
tor shall be binding on us. 


The Arbitrator shall make his award within a 
period of three months or within such further time 
as is extended by mutual agreement between us m 
writing. In case the award is not made within the 


period aforementioned, the reference to arbitration 
shall stand automatically cancelled and we shall be 
free to negotiate for fresh arbitration. 

Signature of the parties: 

Representing employer : 

Sd/- Illegible 
26-9-7.7, 

Representing workmen. 

Sd/- Illegible 
26-9-72 

Witnesses; 

1. Sd./- Illegible 

2. Sd/- Illegible 

[No L-2C013/4/72-LR.IV-] 
S. S. SAHASRANAMAN, Under Secy. 

feft, 7 rnTTL 1972 

RToRTo 28 7 7.— Rff: TTPR RT^R, RRRJT if 
fiifT* f 4 1 1 8 , Rr 5P|STrf5r R RTcgjJ fdTLi M StY 7 " d -I T T‘4 r 

TRf % rH, ftbPFT fffcrffffafR Rlf^T RTT^; HR rtrt 

5, Trap wtefrftr fwr fEHRTR f I 

*pt: w farmt hV pft r HtertfEr fqRr? 

HfafRER, 1 947 ( 1947 TT Tl) Tt TFT 1 0-R RT HR 
ST FT ( 1 ) R BWtff % RRRUE R m* M-slff RFH 5 FT HRR- 
faHTR HRR RfRff sirPfcr T RPRR % f”ffT fRRfrmRT 
HT TTF RF fw | Htr HRR PURR RFR Rft RT rFr %;jtq 
rtref rY 'fcfr h£ 

HR, Tfffftfw fEHTR HfYfRER, 1947 ( 1947 
Ti i 14) RY STFT 1 0— T rY HRRFT ( ?,) % HRRVEjt Rr RR- 
RFR R, 1F + F FRff RTFPRR TRT apt, Rt rR 2 9 

fEHRF", 1 9 7 2 Rff fffHT HT, RRTTfRR RTrft | | 

(rftt) 

i947RYfTFT l(Mp% RtftR) 
RtH 

RBTRRFt % R1R: 

fRRUm TT trffffRftFR RfR RPR: 

Rt Rto ito #rfY, 

W +llR+ Tffsrrrt, 

RtYefY HI RfffffffaFR RfR RT% 

sft HRF RpR hYrr, 

RFF' RTf^R RTT|F rr, 

TEflRiRf % RtH fHRfufilff RtH ifEH rY *ft 
RFo Ro ftRRT, 1JRT ^TRTRTR, RIFR RVRTT, Rf forft 



Sec. 3(ii>] 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA: OCTOBER 31, 1973/ AS VINA 39, 1894 


43 


1 


2 


% ETSETEE % j%tr Prepaid T?% TT trdTTRT TTTT P- hT 
EET %: — 


(l) fTpTf^efTTr? 4 ; ,T TL-TT HI"?! % ?Tr T *7 

erP % eFet't % 
ePtPet % TFT eP 


ett 51% NrPf<t ? 


(«) 


Feet? % TSTPrPir tt 

pEETE fEE% ETTpTT 
TETEE TT EETE TT 

tut ePt Terr eP 
HpfEpTE I I 


ff^FdT'T Ftp PTPrr^ 
etet ePt 

TTET ETT^E % EpET, 
ETTET TITT Elt?E, 

eeejt (thrstit) 


(iii) ePt Ttf Ter eteee etet ette ee^ ee: 
TETTCf TT EpdPE- 
RTcE TTET i?P Et EETT 
TFT I 


(Vi) Tfl-rPTcr eete% Ft- 2500 

EppEE TETTCf Tt 
f 5T TRsET I 

(V) fEETE STTT EErfEE 170 
TT ^ *-E 1 °h a : EElfdd 
^TT TT# TETPCf Tt 
ETTpTE EEET ! 


TT TT TFT TT TFT | Ft ESETE TT FePtTEE fE TT 

htto tt f>rr 1 

ESTTE TTTTT EETE Eld EFT Tp TRTEpE TT ?E% EpT 
HEE % ETET ET EETt EpE TTFFtPtT PtFeE THE JITT 
EJTET ETE, TOT I EpE 'JE EFEE TTErEpST % EpEE TE1E 
E|t FEET ETET TT ETWEE T pET pEET TEE: E? ft ET^E]- 
EtT oE TT ETWEE %Ptt ETEEPe TFT Tp TEEE f IE , 
TETTePT 5FETEE: 
pT'TTT Ft TT eFePeFsTcE T t E ET% 

(fo/-) EETEE 26/9/72 
TETTEP TT eFtPeFEcT TEE ETH 
(f0/-) ETT5E 26/9/72 

et# 

1 - (fo/-) 

2- (|0/-) EET5E 

(Eo ^0-2901314172-^0 ETTo IV) 
(iteo tTEo EfETEEE) 

EEE EpEE, ETTE ETTTT I 
(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the '-,4th June 1972 

S.O. 2878. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 73F of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 
1948 (34 of 1948), and in continuation of the notifica- 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of 


Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 
Employment) No. S.O. 2775, dated the 5th July, 1971, 
the Central Government having regard to the location 
of the State Transport Workshops at Meenakshipuram 
and Ranithottam of the Kanya Kumari Branch of the 
Tamil Nadu State Transport Department in an area 
in which the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the 
said Act are in force, hereby exempts the said work- 
shops from the payment of the employer’s special con- 
tribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act 
for a further period of one year with effect from the 
29th July, 1972 upto and inclusive of the 28th July, 
1973. 


[No. F.S.38017(40)/72-HI.] 
(STE ETE TtEETT pEETE ) 

E| fEETt, 4 EE, 1972 

TT° ETo 28 78 TEETTl TTEE EPEE EpEfEEE, 1948 
( 1948TT 34) TpOTET 7 3E ERT EE?E TpETEI TT EEpE 
te% |T ePe ere ettit t te ete jeePe EETEE (EE 
EtE EtEETE pEETE ) Tp Ef9E[EET H°TT° ET° 2775, ETTf^ 

5 TETf, 1971% TE % %?EtE ETEET, EpEEETE TT5E 
TpTEfE PEETE Tt TFnTETTP TRET % EpETdpTTE ePt 
TTEPePeEE fTEE TT7E EpTEfE TEEWPtff Tt EE E, 
f%E% ETT EptTfEEE % ESETE 4 EpT 5 % EEEET EEcE 
EEfPTpE Tt SETE P TEE fir EEE TETIEWt Tt EEE 
EpEpEEE T EKtIE 5-T T EEtE ETEfofrE fEENT 
% fTEE ePeETE %EETE% 29ETlf, 1972% 28 TElf, 
1973ET, PEE% Ef f%T Et Ep-hPdE t[T EpT EE Tt 
EEpST % fWi FdEETTT Ts T TTT | I 

[EoTToT[Eo 38017 (40)/72-tfEETfJ 


S.O. 2879. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 87F of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 
1948 (34 of 1948), and in continuation of the notifica- 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of'' 
Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 
Employment) No. S.O. 481, dated the 11th January, 
1972, the Central Government hereby exempts the 
Hindustan Shipyard Limited, Visakhapatnam from all 
the provisions of the said Act for a further period of 
one year with effect from the date of expiry of the 
period specified in the said notification. 

[No. S.38017 (43)/72-HI.J 



4324 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21. 1972/ASVlNA 29, 1S94 


[Part II — 


287 9. — Rnfakt Tm aftRT RfaffiRR, 1948 
( 1 948 fiT 34) %f UTTT 87 TRTU RTcd Rf%Eli 7TFT 
■F^^^mT^ET^nT,«TF'«ftT RcfERT («HT 5fk 
tWtt fwR) srftj^prr rsrt rro rto 48 i, niffa 
1 1 ^FET^, 1972 % ^PT t, %?5%T TTCFTT f?FT- 

*nt fa-ftis, fwnarEi^ %t y^r srfsrfwr % *nft yrRsfr 

%, si4d siftrg^PTT Jr [4(*ifc°c °m«h i^fir % rrrtr %t ui Ci<s< 
%, f[Rr I 

[^roqjro^ir 38017 (43)/72-^!nt] 


8.0. 2880. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 73F of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 
1948 (34 of 1948), and in continuation of the notifica- 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 
Employment) No. S.O. 3668 dated the 7th August, 1971 
the Central Government having regard to the location 
of the factory, namely, Central Jail Industrial Section, 
Central Jail, Madras, In an area in which the provi- 
sions of Chapters IV and V of the said Act are in 
force, hereby exempts the said factory from the pay- 
ment of the employer’s special contribution leviable 
under Chapter VA of the said Act for a further period 
of one year with effect from the 12th August, 1972 upto 
and Inclusive of the 11th August, 1973. 

[No. F.601(32)/70-HI.] 

RRoOTo288 0.4>4Rl<) TRq - 4faTT fftl f*1 4 -H , 1948 

( 1948 «PT 34)%t RTTT 7 3T 3TTT SWfT 'SlfiRPlf RR tnfFT 
RiT% ^ Sfrr RTTR RT+IT % ’SET %k R'ETfa RdMfi («TR 
^TT%5nrKfw^) E“o spTo WTO 3668dkfa 

7 tHTTrl, 1971 % W Ji RWT kl 

%wr, ^rr, *raw, rtrrt rrwT 3% 
e^jr *i, fyyJr yw Rftrfknr % wrw 4 sflr 5 % 
snjrR $,RRfkf%%TEn'RJrwr^ yw «hK«u% %t yw 
nftrfJnHr % *t54ft 5-rt % «m%r fRRfaRi % f%?vr 

nfJKW %%RTR'% 1 2 SHTCR, 1972% II *PIW, 1973 

art, farrtf ^ for tft RfJRf^rar $, t^? %tr %t siRf% % 
f%^tti<;aKi ijh: %ff $ I 


[TOTTIO 601 (32) /7(H[^ Rtf] 


8 . 0 . 2881 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 73F of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 
1948 (34 of 1948), and in continuation of the notifica- 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 
Employment) No. S.O. 3580 dated the 18th August, 1971 
the Central Government having regard to the location, 
of the Central Engineering Workshop, Bangalore, be- 
longing to the Bangalore Municipal Corporation in an 
area in which the provisions of Chapters IV and V of 
the said Act are In force, hereby exempts the said 
workshop from the payment of the employer’s special 


contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said 
Act for a furthr period of one year with effect from 
the 4th July, 1972 upto and inclusive of the 3rd July, 
1973. 

[No. F.S.38017 (47) /72-HI.] 

RRoRTo 288L — _ t'4' I llCl TT^fi «Ti -H I ilfsrffiTPT, 1948 
( 1948RTT 34) %t 9TU 7 3^ T 5TTTT 5T^T WlfaTfiT RR RTRI 
f C[ Sftr WTTR RTRTT % «HT %k JRRfa RcTIRR (*FT 
Rk TM^ITT fTRTR ) %ryfaqWRo Jfrro syo 3580mfi« 
18TO, 1971% RiR Jr %RT%T RTRRT JPTRk RRT fWI 
%r idi [fififtfi T%?rnT, % <J% efcr Jr, fsrcEf 

’trfRffiTR % WGfiTT 4*fk 5 % y^^STSTfcRl, %t w- 
f^'jfd %r % trt% ^ R%snv %r y^y yfHfRyy % 
5q>TTRT 5-RT % RtfET yTTTf"jf%T fH^fTSTTr % fanf 1 ? % 

R5TT% 4 1972 % 3 1973 cW, f%n%T ^ 

f%T q N pTR ^ wir %I tTTfe % fairiTi^nj 

%fi|i 

[%0 TIT T[Ro 38017 ( 47)/72-(^ <TI^] 


New Delhi, the 22nd June 1972 

8.0. 2882 — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 73F of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 
(34 of 1948). and in continuation of the notification of 
the Government of India In the Ministry of Labour and 
Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) 
No. S.O. 2232, dated the 27tR May, 1971, the Central 
Government, having regard to the location of the factory 
namely, Chamarajasgara Water Works, Tippegondana- 
halli In Bangalore District In the State of Mysore In 
which the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the said 
Act are not in force, hereby exempts the said factory 
from the payment of employer’s special contribution 
leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act of a further 
period of one year with effect from the 6th June, 1972 
upto and inclusive of the 4th June, 1973 or until the 
enforcement of provisions 6f Chapter V.of the said Act 
In those areas, whichever is earlier. 

[No. F. S. 38017/57/72-HI.] 
Rf fefr, 22 WRTi 19?2 

Uotno 2882 , — TT^T aftfiT RftrfJRR, 
1948 ( 1948 TT 34) %V RTTT 73^ *TRT 
W WEI *FT% gl? tfiT STTTR *TCPTT % SR sflT 
RRRRT (*W Wk TUfilT iWT) R° 

5fTo Wr° 2232 27 Rf, 1971 % WJ 

Ji %R?FT RT*PTT ^-TRTRFTT aTIET RTO, feJEffl 

1 *FT <.<ai4 TF 71 ! Jf sfRfft T f%'3' 

Jf, ftprJr y^r srf%f%TR % rerrt 4 %k s % yRR^ 
SFJtT & Trafwftr 5RTR Jr TBT% ^ yW WT5iT%f 
TO % RWET 5— Ri % Hi 4) jiTT % 

Wl RfRRRT % R5FT % 5 5jR, 1972 % 4 1973 

RRT, ftraJi R? fRR •$! qlkftlR HRI Rk %t 

% fell? q - ! dRfW% leH[ RR RRT f% W 



Sec. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29. 1894 


4325 


5 % NjHs| r 0 RR Sfidl 4 5PTTT Rfi) vid, 4t 4t H 5? ?t iff 
RR% fd^, yz ^fT £ I 

[4° Uo RRo 3801 7(57)/7 2-^ *n4] 


S O. 2883.— In exerdse of the powers conferred by 
section 87 of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 
("34 of 1948) and In continuation of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry, jpf Labour and 
Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) 
No. S.O. 2974 dated the 17th, July, 1971, the Central 
Government hereby exempts the National Chemical 
Laboratory, Poona, under the control of the Council of 
Scientific and Industrial Research from all the provi- 
sions of the said Act for a further period of one year 
with effect from the date of expiry of the period speci- 
fied in the said notification. 

[No, F. S-38017 (81)/ 72-HI-] 
RR° OT o 2883. — fidNrd TEST fitfiT 'StfafaTfi, 
1948 ( 1948 RR 34) fid 9TTT 875FTSPOT Iff f fidfif fiR 
RfitR find RKd tlUhR % WT ’ffVt "JRfilR 

«RT fiffc d'SIfiK ffiRTfi ) fid RfEPjRRT Ro fiRo <TT° 
2974, 17 1971 % ^R 4 %4dR dlfiJI, 

4*rrffifir *fk tf ltf l Pw rrrhtr ifdFj % Menddr 
trtrr spfFiWTT, ^tt fid rrr RfdfRfiR % rrV ^rqraptff 
% RfiR RfagRRi Jr fafkfoe fiURRfir % rrrir fid ?nfNr 
4 ^ r 4 *rd yftx 5Prftr % fdq, ir^rcr ^ i 

[Ro^Jof^o 38017(6l)/72-q^!TTf] 


S.O. 2884. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 73F of the Employees' State Insurance Act, 1948 
(34 of 1948). and in continuation of the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and 
Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) 
No. S.O. 83, dated the 7th December, 1971, the Central 
Government having regard to the location of the 
Tirumala Tirupathi Dev-asthanam Transport Garage 
Workshop Tirupathi, in an area in which the provi- 
sions of Chapters IV and V of the said Act are in force, 
hereby exempts the said workshop from the payment of 
the employer’s special contibutlon leviable under Chap- 
ter VA of the said Act for a further period of one year 
with effect from the 28th August, lSTS'Upto and Inclu- 
sive of the 27th August, 1973. 


[No. F. S.38017/54/72-HI.J 


fiffc. SRo 2884. — TW 4tRT RfferfRfiR, 
1948 ( 1948 fiR 34) ft RTTT 73R 5TTT RRrT Vlffifffif 
HR STfitfi find <TRR TO1 % ’RR JRfifa 4WOT 
(sr*T dtl GdffrT fdfiTff) fid RffilffiRT Ro^oSTTo 83 
RTdRr 7 ffi!F<s(T, 1971 % TR 4 ftfN tK+K fd^HTMT, 

fdUiffi % Wa - 4, 

fdn 4 RfiR mfktRfiR % tw 4 ftx 5 % rrrfr rtr f, 

WRfifdfidWTRdR^dgV RfiRRafaTIRfidRfiR % 


SpiRTR 5-fiT % RVFl MDrr % RffiRTR 

% RRTfi It 2 8 RRUT, 1972 it 27 RRIR, 1973 ITT, fcra4 

R?ffiRRt nfwiRtd ire 4ft; fi4 fid tPiftr % fdv iiRfiarcr 

t I 

[filTTW It o qit ° 38017(54)/72~flrar. sn^] 


New Delhi , the 24 th June 1972 

S-O. 2885.— In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 87 of the Employees’ Slate Insurance Act, 1948 
(34 of 1948) and In continuation of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and 
Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and. Employment) 
No. S.O. 2228. dated the 27th May, 1971, the Central 
Government hereby exempts Messrs Indian Refineries 
Limited, Gauhati from all the provisions of the said Act 
for a further period of one year with effect from the 
24th January. 1972 upto and Inclusive of the 23rd 
January, 1973. 

[No. F. S-38017 (2)/71-HI.] 
fif faedt, 24 SIR, 19 72 

RR° *Ro 2885. — TV ‘fil'd TT^R 4tRT 5TfErfRRR 
1948 ( 1948 RR 34) ft STTTT 87 5TG RRIR firffiRR’f, 
RR TRtff find gt r 4ft RTTR RTfiRT % «TR, llWI 4ft 
yrdir rrrtr (rr 4ft TtorfiTT fdRTff) fid srfd^RRT 
Ro^Tosrro 2228 RTdifi 2 7Rf, 1 97 1 % RiR 4 %RrV 
RTfiRC tTR^jlTT 4 rr' TfTRR firm d^T fddET, R^jd 
fid Rfifi RfjjfdfiR % R*d RfiR m %24 fiTRfid, 
1973 Rfif, Rf ffiR R> Rf«rfalT fin%, ^ fid fid RfiftT 
% fniT ® z ^ird 1 1 

[Ro 'Rfo itr-38017( 2) [71-^ RT^] 


New Delhi, the 4th June 1972 

S.O. 2886.— In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 73F of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 
1948 (34 of 1948), and in continuation of the notifica- 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 
Employment) No. S.O. 3679 dated the 7th August, 1971 
the Central Government having regard to the location 
of the Kerala University Press, Trivandrum, In an area 
in which the provisions of Chapter IV and V of the 
said Act are in force, hereby exempts the Said press 
from the payment of the employer’s special contribu- 
tion leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act for a 
further period of one year with effect from the 9th 
July, 1972 upto and inclusive of the 8th July, 1973. 

[No. F.S, 38017 (48) /72-HI-l 
Rf ffipd, 4 sprrf, 1972 

fiR o RT° 2886,-^4^10 URfi dfiT STfaffifiR, 1948 

( 1948RR 34) fidRPT 7 3R TRTU RfifR RffiTpff fiR Rfitff 

find 51 5 *frr sqrufr tor % «tr, sfk gRfidrRRTRR (rr 

?dr CM j ik ffi'filfi) fidRflTfiRTR 0 fiRoRTo 367 9, fliO<S 

7 RRfiR, 19 7 1 % fiR 4 %ddr mfijr ffiTdfismrfi 

RJEfiTUfi, fRfdRTR.ddddRii, f^Rd RfiR RftrfRfiR % RSfiPT 

4 ’d I 5 % RRIR fid RfifrfifR fid 8 fiTR 4 lud 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II — 


4326 


T3T tpfTTTT 3? T T3T wfTfftTT % TWIT 5-37 % wftftl 

T^Hs'jFlir ffiTlTT sf>" fftTT wfTTTT % TTTfi ft 9 WTlft, 197 2 
■> " 

ft 8 197 3 T37, fftTft T? Ptd ftt TpTfftcf E37 ft)v 

*rf 3ft TTfft % pTT IT/T^RT 75T ftftf | I 


[To TTolTTo 38017 ( 4 8 ) / 7 2-t^ Tift ] 


Neio Delhi, the 10th July 1972 

S.O. 2887. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (2) of section 5D of the Employees’ Provi- 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 
of 1952), and in supersession of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and 
Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Emplov- 
ment) No. S.O. 377, dated the 17th December, 1971, the 
Central Government hereby appoints Shri B. N. Raval 
as Regional Provident Fund Commissioner for the 
whole of the State of Maharashtra and the Union 
territory of Goa, Daman and Diu to assist the Central 
Provident Fund Commissioner in the discharge of his 
duties, vice Shri K. S. Naik. 

[No. 17/80/G5/PF-I(i).l 
Tf lO^TTf, 1972 

*FTo TTo28 87.37ft3Tft TffttW fftfft ftk 3RTT TTT 

'a -o 

fftfft wfftfftTT, 1 952 ( 1952 3T 19) 3ft TRr 5T 3ft TT- 
TRT ( 2) TRT 5PTT UlftrUff 3T ipffT 37rft gE iqftr 
TT7T (RW % m TV gTTfr TTTTT (WT Tftr TtmT 
fftTFl) 3ft wfftT[3TT fto 37To WTo 371 TTQtT 1 7 IWSTT, 
19 71 ®frt srf!n;trr 37vft tor tI^rt fftfft wpj3T 

3ft 3T fftftltT ft T^RTT ftft % fftE *ft 

%o TTR'o fiTTT % pH M T7 Wf ftfto tEfo TRPT 3ft tiuTd 
T^rrp^ TTW T|e ftt3T, ftftf TT 7M 9?sff % fftij 

tTfrrirm sr.tfw Tfftcr fftfft fftw 1 1 


[To 17 (80)/65-'f[o IT^o 1 (j)] 


New Delhi, the 12th July 1972 

S.O. 2888. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section f3) of section 1 of the Employees’ State 
Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby appoints the 13th day of August, 1972 as 
the date on which the provisions of Chapter IV (except 
sections 44 and 45 which have already been brought 
Into force) and Chapters V and VI (except sub-section 
(1) of section 70 and sections 77, 78, 79 and 81 which 
have already been brought into force) of the said Act 
shall come into force in the following areas in the 
State of Andhra Pradesh namely: — 

"The area within the limits of Proddatur muni- 
cipality and wilbin the limits of the villages of 
Proddatur and Kothapally in Proddatur Taluk, 
Cuddapah district.” 

[No. F.S. 38013/ 13 /72-HI.] 


TffcEfr, h2TUlf, 1972 

TT° Tfo 2888. — TtfTTf] TRT sfrqr wfftT 
fftfiT, 1948 ( 1 948 TT 34) 3ft TlTr 1 3ft TWRT 
( 3) 51 * I TTTT TfftfiTf 371 SPTftl 377"ft Fpr ftRiftT t 37R 
ecT^JRT 13 Wif, 1972 3ft TT TlfftT % TW ft fftTT 
3U7ft t fft7T3ft T3T wfftfftTT % W5TR 4 (WTT 44 ftk 
45 % fTTTT ftt Tfft |ft STTtT 3ft TT W3ft f) TlT W«ITT 
5 fttT 6 [SJTTT 7 6 3ft TWT7T ( 1 ) TV NTT 7 7, 78, 
79 ftk 82 % fftTTT 3f[ Tfft [ft 5T^?T 3ft TT ^3ft f] % 
TURN TRW TTW TR7J % fftrfi ft-iPsTcT WT1 ft TfW fftft, 
TT'tT:- 

"ftT^rrgT: TTcn-fftwr tV |^iw fftw ft 

TTTT dT3T37 ft ftlT^FTT fttT' 37ftTR?ftt % < MTT 

-J S3 -s sp 

irrftt 3 ft fttn % ftirr 3 tt stt i" 


[ft^TT 371 o 38013( 13)/72-ETo TTfo] 


New Delhi, the 17 th July 1972 

S.O. 2889. — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Quickker’s Paper Converting Machinery Manu- 
facturing Company, 39, Makardah Road, Salkia, 
Howrah, including (i) Quickker’s Paper Converting 
Machinery Manufacturing Company, 17A, Place 
Court, 1 Kyd Street, Calcutta and (ii) Quickker’s 
Paper Converting Machinery Manufacturing Company, 
20 Chandltala Main Road, Behala, Calcutta-53 have 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provi- 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), should be made applicable lo the said establish- 
ment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers 
conferred by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said 
Act, the Central Government hereby applies the pro- 
visions of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of December, 1970. 


[No, • S. 35017 (25) /72-PF. II] 
fif fftMft 17 TTlf, 1972 
37To 5TTo 288 9. — TR: TT37P" 3ft T? TTftT 

?>rr ft fft ftTT Pw+tf ftiE 37T3fftr Tftftuft ftwftTrfftfi 

dVPTdft, 39, WTTTff TfT, TfTTTTT, gTTTT, frrft (j) 
fjpprft ^q-7- ^,33p,4| 43 yflTftft 374^%, ] 7 IT, 

ftftT 3ftf, 1 37UWT ftW (ii) fftHRfrft ftlT 

3,d3rd4 | h'jftdTT JfTPffft, 2 0, 

ftfi 7ftr, tgm, 33337^11-5 3 TftErfftT ft, TTT37 ft 

fdftldd; ftftr diHTlP^ft 3ft FT TRT 3T 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 4327 


T?ppT fa far £ far TTnfa fanF frftr FV f /f tht 


farftr FFufrorr, 1952 (1952 ft 19) % »s fit 
TFTFT fa TIT fab ftF nfao : 

c ' * 

set:, set, w FfarfaFT fa sim 1 fa Fwn ( 4) 

sm fftt wfaTFt ft ffYf imr ^tt, fesYf TmiT fff 

srfsrfRRE % FWF FFT ^IFT fa PTF3TO HTF Frvfa 
f. I 

F^ FFtPJFTr 1970 ^7 FfT-TT % TT<faTF Fm fa 
F^TT TTlfa TIFfa I 

[To 3501 7( 2 5) /7 2-fa ft; 2] 


S.O. 2890. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the 
first proviso to section 6 of the Employees' Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 

1952), the Central Government, after making neces- 
sary enquiry into the matter, hereby specifies with 
effect from the 1st April, 1970, the establishment 
known as Messrs Ganeshka Kanoi Tea Company (Pri- 
vate) Limited, P- 8 , Mission Row Extension, Calcutta- 
1 , for the purposes of the said proviso. 

[No. 8/201/70/PF-II(ii)l 


«PT° WIo 28 9 0 -fafaF TTOqT FTFlfa fafaq 

frftr tV qitpr ffafa fFfFfft, 1952 ( 1952 ff 
1 9 ) fa «rm r % sm mg^r irr ftft srfTmcff ft ffYf 
nfa gTT, fapsnr it FmFFr far fft % tiftt 1 fft. 

1970 4toY ftoitff Ffaf fa (ft>> ) f^o, fa-s. 
ffaFT ft TprrfaTT, TTTMT-1 TOFT *FTFT fa fTflPT 
ott FTnir % Ffanff % Fi" f>Tfdfa r -T & 1 

[ifo 8( 20 l)/ 70 -fao TOfio 2 ( ii ) ] 


S-O. 2891. — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Geneshka Kanoi Tea Company Private Limited, 
P- 8 , Mission Row Extension, Calcutta-1 have agreed 
that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds 
and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 

should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers 
conferred by subjection (4) nT section 1 of the said 
Act, the Central Government hereby applies the pro- 
visions of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April. 1970, 

[No. 8/201/70-PF. II (i)]. 


W?T° 3 2891. -FT: fafaF TOE fa F^ FFYT 
fan % far 3nY TOfalFTT FFff fa Fmfa (jfffaFTo, fa-8 
fTOFF ft EFFiFT, TTTTI-1 TIFF TFHT ft TTFT 
fdFTTT faT qfaTTfafa fa TifTFFT FT FIT FT fa 

Ff £ far TTFlfa ffFm FtFt fYt falT ffifar fatrfftFT, 

1952 ( 1952 FT 19) % FT ITT FFF IFRT fa FTfiJ 

faff mft Tffab; 


TIT:, FI, FIT FiTiTIF fa FIG 1 fa FTTHT (4) 
arm ftt irffafa ft FiVr Frrft fq, fafaF ttfft fft 
srfftfftFT 3 fr Find FIT TFITT fa dT^TTTr FmfY 

t I 


F? fF ^FFT 1970 % IT far %■ FFF Fid fa FTcf 
FFTfr FETjft I 


[To 8/2 01/7 0-Ft o ^F) » 2 ( ii ) ] 


S.O. 2892. — Whereas It appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority ot 
the employees in relation to the establishment known 
as Messrs Raja Charity Trust, 150/ A, Mount Road, 
Madras-2 including its Depots at (1) No, 19, 20, 21, 

Mookar Nallamuthu Street, G.T. Madras, (2 ) 23/1306, 
Mahatma Gandhi Road, Ernakulam, Cochin-16, and 
(3) 2/108, I Block I, Main Road, Rajaji Nagar, Bang- 
alore-10, have agreed that the provision's of the Em- 
ployees' Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 
1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the 
said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, 
the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April, 1970. 


[No. S. 8(208) /70-PF. 11(1)] 


TT° WTo 28 92 . —FT: fafar rrTFFT faqRFcffa 
fan t far ttT mrr fafaY i 50 / 17 , rrmr fan 
T 5 TTT- 2 , FmT ( 1 ) T° 19 , 20,21 Tnr FTO 1 TR£ *farr, 
fao fa O TSTT, (2) 23 / 1306 , TFFTT fafa far, 

FarffTF, fafaT -16 far (3) 2 / 108 , Flf TOfTT, ^T 
far, fjipt) tto", FFfa T - 1 0 T fam ft% fa > fa Tfar- 
farr f, « TFTFT Jr TOFT FTfam far FTFlffaff 
fa FifTFFT FT FPT m TRTT fa fa % ffar ifanfa fFt^f 
fafar far fTTF FTTT fafal FFfanrT, 1 952 ( 19 5 2 
FT 1 9 ) % FmF FFT TFTFT fa TPJ fartr FT^T nffaj ; 



4328 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II— 


iff, snr, efr EftifdOTT fYY srm 1 f?Y efettt 

( 4) 5TTT OTffE RfFEFY FE EF>T FRcT gif ETFE7: 

rfr sTfafEEF % ws efr pirn FiY i^sm rp]; 
fr#Y ft 1 

Eg srfyy-MI 1 970 F?f E#E % STOTT ftE Tt SPJ?R 

FFrfr rtotvY i 

[Ro <T*To 8(20«)/70-'ft'oU. r RO'2] 


S.O. 2893. — Whereas It appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
The Associated Cement Companies Limited (Chanda 
Cement Works, P.O, Cement Nagar, District Chanda 
including its branch, M[s. Sindda Limestone Quarry, 
District Yeotmal (Maharashtra) have agreed that the 

f rovisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and 
amily Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1962), should be 
made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by such sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, 
the Central Government thereby applies the provi- 
sions of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of March, 1970. 

[No.S.35017 (88) /71 JPF.II] 

floHb 2 8 93 FE'- %ETYE Eg STEYR 

ifrdT ft fY fora uHirdufd? iftrfe FOTFfY fRfFtr, (eft 
ee#, tYo eY° tYY% ret, fRRT otrt, ret erf^Y 
vipit, fWm rttr trYr fot#Y, f^nrr esrftr 
REPP WOT ¥f Mm f'lOTdP eYt ^ihl, 
«tfY EgREET $R EYE ET HgEE gY fif I % FTRETCY EfW 
fafa sfk #ER fdfsr EfafEER, 1952 (l952 

EE 19) %EFE^EFEREmPYET^fFdTRT#E7fgTr ; 

tpr:, sr, efe srftrfOTPT f?Y srnr 1 fYY ereri 

( 4) 3TTT STOTE EfFEEf FE STTtE FRTY g[T %r#YE RTFET 
REE FtWeER % EEEET EFE FETTE TY '("I i3 1 tl ETE 
FREY ft I 

Eg srftrgNdi 1970 % ft#, % 31 t Ire tY srffE 
RFlfY EPPfY | 

[#<> t^-35017(88)/71-'fYo tn^o 2 )] 


S.O. 2894- — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
first proviso to section 6 of the Employees’ Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
the Central Government, after making necessary en- 
quiry Into the matter, hereby specifies, with effect from 
the 31st July, 1970, the establishment known as Messrs 
Associated Leather Enterprise Private Limited, 1, 
Sangachi 1st Lane, Calcutta-46 for the purposes of the 
said proviso. 

[No S. 3501 8/ 46/71 /PF-II(li).] 

VTo nffo 28 94 . — #F#Ye REPR EFfET^Y 
ffffff ffk JEfST #EE ffffa R%fROTT, 1952 ( 1952 FE 
1 9) F?Y EKT 6 % STOTT ERfr JTTT EEE RfFEEf FE STEYR 
ERrY |?r, ROT^ fWT R ITTOTC RtE FR% % EFFTg 3 1 
gRlf, 1970 ERR tTRYfRrrfar EET STSEE 

MEET, 1-ROTTTEY FEE RE, TWriT-46 ETRT PETER 
OTt rrFgERT EFT OTTfF % EEtOTTf % fag fafTfrE 
FREY ft I 

[ffonFo 35018(47)/71-'Fo fffo 2(ii)] 


S.O. 2895. — Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
the Lok Shlkshann Sanstha, Sirmour District, Rewa 
(M.P.) have agreed that the provisions of the Em- 
ployees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 
1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the 
said establishment: 

Now, therefore. In exercise of the powers conferred 
by subsection (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come Into 
force on the first day of January, 1972, 

[No. S.35019(43)/72-FF.II.] 


VJo WTo 28 9 5 . — OTL %~-#YE REFER Tt Eg FETE 
gYEY ft fa fa RTF fsrsprr FWfr, fFTFT fro, fw, 
(ro fo) erpr ytrrt fOTfrarr tflr OTROTfOTif 

S|?Y FJOTSTT TF OTR FT RfFR 5fT ft fV FFTRrft fTotF 
fRfR 5 [Yt #RR ffifR RfaiROTT, 1952(l952TT19) 
% RFOTR ERE T-FTFE ®PY RPJ) Pt>H ET# u 1 1 1 ' t ; 


WE:, EE, OTfE EffffFFF «TTT 1 F# EWRT ( 4) 

^ETTI FEE Rf4EFY FE FRYE |jff #F#TE FTFET RUE 

% EEOTtr RFR TRTFR #Y REVERT RNj; FR#Y ft I 

Rf tT^Fd r 1 972 F?Y RRR#Y % FOTT f#R Nft OTJR 
gf EESfY FnrnfY | 

[tYo trR— 3 50 1 9 ( 43) /7 2—^0 t^o 2] 



Sec. 3(li)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


432? 


faff srfffaqR, 1952 ( 1 952 TT 19) % W? B4B 
wm ft hfj r*u Jti'i ^ I fau, ; 


S.O. 2896. — Whareas It appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of the 
employees In relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Surendra Process Works, Shantinagar Industrial 
Estate, Unit No. 1 Ground Floor, Vokola Bombay-55 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees' 
Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 
(19 of 1952), should he made applicable to the said 
establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-scction (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty-first day of March, 1971. 

[No. S.35018(23) /72-PF.II.] 

TT° WTo 28 9 6.-BB: BTTR ft BcffB 

ftBT | ff sft^nFT *PRf , Wfcfim ^?fcc[BH 

<jfac B° 1, uM'? Til X, I M $ — 5 5 BfBT RTFR ^ 

bibbs faBUR trk Tf BrffBi ft b^boti br tc b^bb 

^ fr TfBtff RffsB faff ftr jetb wr faff 
BfffaBR, 1952 ( 1952 TT 19) % WS B4B WM 
ft bpj fftr bib I 

«Rr:, WB, BRB WfffaBR ft OTTT1 ft BTORT ( 4 ) 
^bri bbw mffrBf bt rbir Trf ^ fnftB tv.tr bw 
srfffaBR f tor w Rim ft d^bri bpj; TBcft 1 1 
Bfirff^BRT 1971 ft*[Br£f for ft sr^ 

ffBift BTtnft I 


[fo IJRo 35018(2 3) /72-ft° qro2] 


S-O. 2897. — Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs National Motors Proprietor Mohan Enterprises 
(Rajasthan) Private Limited, Nayapura, Kota have 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should 
be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment, 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of September, 1971. 


[No. S.35019 (20) /72-PF.II. J 

WJo SRo 28 97.— RB: inf! 4 RTTR ft R?[ xrOd 
fftaT | ff RfER rTritr rT^r ^ 

(tww) bt?rb farfaRB, vprrpr, ftrr rtrt ttirr f 
RTB^ET faRtRT TTNTfOTf ft W BTR BT 

b^rr b$ | ff RfaRR farftr tfR tb*b rbb 


TRT:, RB, TO 'RfffaBR ft SRT 1 ft BRHRT (4) 
RRB tlfWTT TTBBtR f^ftB BTTR 

Bn wMbbr % br^rr brb rttib ft bt^rt bp[ 
RRfft ^ I 


r? Tfy^TBT i97i % few % jrpr for ft 
JTT RWt BTTTifr | 


[tfo liB--35019(20)/72- I ft 2] 


S.O. 2898, — Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of the 
employees In relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Loose leaf Combines, 6 Krishnappa Maistry 
Street, Woods Road, Madras-2 have agreed that the 
revisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and 
amily Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be 
made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of March, 1972. 

[No. 3.35019(53) /72-PF.II.] 
TTo WT» 2898.— RB: fnflR BTTR ft R^ Rfllfl 

£tBT t ff #Btf fK WTW-6 3/OTreqnr ^B- 
ft?, RsUR— 2 RRTT TRTRR % B^R^tT fRRtRT ftr TRRTftRf 

ft r^brrt w btb tt b^rb ?t qf | ff Tf 1 Bift Bfqw 

tBfsrtff 1952 ( 1952TT19) 

f BBBrB BBB RTPTB ft if' ^ Btf BTf^TT ) 


BB:, ^ B4B ?rftlfwr ft BRT 1 ft BWRT ( 4 ) 
^BRT BTB SrforPft T7 SPftB TTrT f^ftB BTTR BBB 
BfafflB' f BTBBJ BW Rtm ft t[B^BRT WPJ| TTfft ^ I 

B fay B dT 1972 ft BTB f SHPf ffl ft S^TT 
BBlft BTtrft I 


[?fo Tfo 35019( 5 3) / 7 2— vfV ^-2] 


S.O. 2899.— Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of the 
employees In relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs CEEIC, 6. Kiron Sankar Roy Road, Calcutta-1 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ 
Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 
(19 of 1952). should be made applicable to the said 
establishment; 


4330 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21. 1972/ASVINA 29, 1R94 


[Part IT — 


Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section I of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty-first day of March, 1971. 


[No. S.35017 ( 191 /72-PF.II.] 


fao Wfo 28 99 “ Td: fa^fa FRTR fa ^ Tdfa 
^tfrr | Wff iffafa 5, fafaT IT FT DR ft S', faFPFtir- 1 , 
rrpf wm Ft ftrp^i ffarWF far fatfaffat fa 

fa! RET IT FTgRd fa % fa faffafa fafaR fdfu Rfa 

f£RT fanr faffer RfErffaBr, 1952 (1952 fa 19 ) % 

RTTRI Bfa FRIR-T Tit RR£ ffar RJR Rlffa | 

RFL, m, Rfa !#m Tit ETRT 1 Tit RWFT ( 4) 
faTRT RTTT fafafa fa TRfa TRR ftT fafair FRfaT fab 

irfy P im 4 % tjTT'tr ^tci frttr fa Tifat f, t 

R? RffajTRT 1971 fa ETR, % 31 ^ fad Tit ST^rT 
IT Ttft faf'fa I 


[*fo tTTT— 35017( 1 9 ) / 7 2— eft rn r 2 ] 


S.O. 2900., — Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Poona Gut Factory Kanchan Depot, 29/1, Wan- 
wari, Poona, Sholapur Road, Poona-1 have agreed that 
the provisions of the Employees' Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should 
be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of September, 1970. 


[No. S. 3 50 18 (25) /72-PF.II.] 


VTo iRTo 2900. — Ed: fafad FRTR fa Tf Tfad 

fan | f% 3 ftft ^et fa $Tfa, far-r fsfa, 29 / 1 , 

’JOT, faBTJT TR, ^ET— 1 ETEE FEFPT % FREER fERTEE 
tfR faTETffaff fa R^FTfaT ?FT ERt fa FTfRE fa nf | fE 

EifETfa Wee fafs srK ffaE tee Wet WtWr, 

1952(1952 fa 1 9 ) % fashR RET FRTEE Tit FTPJ 

ffa[ vi E iffa I 


Rd:, RE, EW srfEjWFT fa EKT 1 fa ERUfaT ( 4 ) 
^TfaT REFT fafaRlr fa ERR EEt ^tr fafaR FR+R RET 
fafaERE % ETEE Efa RTTET fa EfatTdRT REJ EER | | 


fa TTfR^dT 1970 E fa/Rfa % ERE fdE E> EfaT 

TPRrft fanfa I 


[To (tr- 3 5 0 1 8 ( 2 5 ) / 7 2-fa FT 2 ] 


S.O. 2901. — Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of the 
employees In relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Navin Printers, 6, Krishnapp-a Maistry Street, 
Woods Road, Madras-2 have agreed that the provisions 
of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable 
to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification sha'l be deemed to have come Into 
force on the first day of March, 1972. 

[No. S.35019(54) /72-PF.II.] 

ETo sRo 2B01.-TT: faSTR Efafa fa fa 

Edtd (Wt & fE efte Efad WW e, (reet eW 

rffa fRT fad, ESIFT-2 Rppp FW FT TR^ ffafldT 
5fPF Tfa'TTMf ^T RW 9R RgRT Rf £ fa 

tr Wt -tWr Met rR tbr fafar RftrWnr, 

1952 ( 1952 TT 19) % IWJ ^T?T RTTTR fa 

fafa ^fa Rlffa ; 

Rd;, TTR, ^TTd RfElffaR fa ETRI 1 fa 3WRT ( 4 ) 
5RT tRd Wffafa TIT Riffa Tifa ^ %- r y[q- jpj^rrr 
RfaffaR % ^TT^ET TTA RTFET fa n.d^SRT fafa 

t I 

RsJ RfETgRfa 197 2 fa RTd % TTR ffa fa TTR 

?fl£ RRfa faM I 

[sjo RR- 3 5019 ( 54)/ 72 -fao tttio 2 ] 


S.O. 2902. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 5A of the Em- 
ployees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), the Central Government hereby 
appoints the Internal Financial Adviser and Deputy 
Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of 
Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and. Employment), as a member of the Central Board 
of Trustees, and makes the following further amend- 
ments in the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabili- 
tation (Department of Labour and Employment) No. 

S.O. 2412 dated the 6th July, 1970, namely. — 

In the said notification, for the "entry against serial 
number 3, the following entry shall be substituted, 
namely: — 

" "Internal Financial Adviser and Deputy Secretary 
to the Government of India, Ministry of Labour 



Sue. 30U3 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


433i 


^ 1970 % % jtrr Mr tR spj n 

gf tmaY ^rrq^fr i 

[ro rT^o 35019(73) y 7 1 — Tt 0 HH.02] 


and Rehabilitation, (Department oi Labour ana 
Employment), New Delhi. 

[No. 12(2)/68-FF.II.] 

Vfo WTo 2902 F4RRY rMr Mil tfR 
Mr RfaMlR, 1952 ( 1952 W 19) T?T 

rkt 5tt «pt ?wrt ( 1 ) % srw (v) irt sirr ?rMM 
tt srmr *irR gR %rtYr rtttr, tTraftr Mr RRTg*R 
rrr fw % «rr rR Rms 

(hri rM trspiK Mtft) Mt %?aM sttrY rtI % ^ 
R3FT % FT if tTcT^nTT MRJR TR?ft $ RRtl ttFPR 
% sre, tYtrk rYt yMir («rt rYt tiwr 

MrFT) tR srfii^il R° FTo fR° 2412 ai 6 

3j;?nt, 1970 Jr MmMPjr rYt RRYrt trRy |, rrM :- 

3 TT RfR^RHI Jr, Ro 3 % RTRR TRY srfRfe 
f rut tt MM^farcr srfiffe;r rMrtMt tty Trmr 
rrM; : — 

"RRlfMT Mr RRTpR *fk RR7T SRTTR % TT 
MMr , RR R*M JTffa ROT-TR (RR ifa TT3PTR 
Mrtr) , r$ MMY” i 

. [tfo 12(2)/68-^0 (T9io2] 


3.0. 2903. — Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that ihe employer and the majority ol toe 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Sree Arasanayagi Chit Fund (Private) Limited, 
Sattur and its Branches at Madurai, Virudhunagar and 
SlvaKasi have agreed that the provisions of the Em- 
ployees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (A) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of October, 1970. 

[No. S. 35019 (73) /71-FF.IL] 
•BTo WTo 2 903- — tRT: IRAK M Rf MM 

^Yrt | far MM sfr inTfnMi Mr (rMr) MrMt, 
rrt Mf^fr cr=rr MtrtrY Jr 37 MY rtotR 
rtrrt prm R MtMff rYt 4MMtM fY Rpwr 
rrt >r r^rr I fir tMrrY Cw Mr «fk 
5 ^ rrr Mk rIrMpt 1952 (1952 ft 19 ) 3r 
rwr r*rt wm Mr rtR M^R ; 

rtf, rr, rrr rTrMth tR rri 1 tR rwrt ( 4 ) 
am stfr srfa'Mf ft rrM fMY gR %rtM trfr 
r MM t r ^ rrrrj sw furr tR rr^srt rpj fMY 


s o. 2904. — Whereas it appears to the Central 

Government that me empioyci and the majority or the 
employees in relation to tne establishment known as 
Messrs National Marketing Corporation, Pokhran Road 
No. 2, Majiwada, ihana-b' have agreed that tne provi- 
sions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should, be made 
applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by subsection (4) ol section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

Tliig notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirtieth day of September, 1971. 

[No. S.35018 (17 ) /72-PF.IIU) ,] 
*£ 1 ° WTo 2 S 04 " , 7 cL RTTTTt T?T Jftftcf i$M 

I far 4M R7Th5T RPPfeiT TVmrRrd, TR5rVT Tt«, Ro 2, 

TfnflarTr, rirt— g rprf ?«tpt R MfM> trk v4- 
MMtR Sfrd^WT 3Td T7 $ fa 

RfafR Mar sir T?id Mr RfRMm, 1952 (1952 

TR 19 ) * 3TT wm vIPJ, faftj vfi% '6fT%i | 

3Td nfRMPT *Ft RRT 1 "Pt rtrrt (4) 
STG T?rf UTf fiM'T Ti TTIfi TRcT gh RTFR 34fT 

RMf-TTfl 47 TlffR PTIId hi u?T?jr7T RTi[ | I 

tT5 Rf R-TRRT 1 9 7 1 T?1 RT % cftRR Ml ^Y 
%% RUSfY RT^fY I 

URO 35018( 1 7 ) / 7 2— TY o t[T)0 2 (i)] 


S.O. 2995.— In exercise of the powers conferred by 

the Ui’sl p.oviso to sec Lion G ol tne Employees Provi- 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
U>5l), the con Lid] Government, alLer maxing necessary 
emiuiry into the matter, he.eby specilies wit .1 eifect 
from tiie GUtn .^cpteinb.r, 1971, tiie establishment known 
as lViessib National Marketing Coiporalion. EOknian 
Road No. 2, Majiwada, Thaua-U for the purposes of the 
said proviso, 

[No. S.35018 (17) /72-PF.II(il).] 


*RT o ?IT o 2005. — ^^r^HRFRTTRRRY’iTMJtMRWk 
f T7TT fhfh 7rfhfhiTfT, 1952 ( 1952 *FT 1 9 ) ^Y RRT 
6 mfacTRY TT MYRTRRgfJ, 

MrR Jr SRRWP 5ftR JpTR % 30 ftRFRT, 1971 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVlNA 29, 1894 


[Part K- 


4532 


<PT° WTO 2907. — ZRT: folk W GFTT ^ STeflRT 
| fa BflB qsjo 987 ^T f -ffa JFTWFI^fTO faTO WTOTf 
ttWVfa BftT TRT TOTR, TPETTl’ TTTO 

wm B fatfW Bk T*farfkfr «f?t r$Bw w 
wrt to g> *ri | fa (mItfO wfawr fafa 

Bk fro*r Bur fafw wfwfam, 1952 (1952 

TO 19) % 3TOFW BW ?m Nig far TO% 

WTL, NW, TW WfwpRh WTO 1 «I?V sTTWTO ( 4) 
3TO TOTT WrfNxTOf TO ST^TTO TOTT gT[ %u£fa TOTOT 7W 
WfwfaTOT % T7«PW TTO 1 TWEET «Ft t^r^STO NE[ ^toRt 
| I t 

W^SlfwgWRT 1972 % JFTwf^TtsrtJTT jjf 

TOTlfT TOT[Bt I 

[Bo tTW°35019( 5l)/72-4totFfic> 2(i)] 


B *P"fi'f3W +KH15.VN, B1<S4 *i 0 * B 0 2, WEjffaTEL 
WETT-6, W TWEET Tt ir^ffT <T T«Rf TOTOT % WWkR 
faq fafafw<a: totBT $ i 


[flo q^To 35018( 17)/72— BtolKfio II(ii)] 


8.0. 2906- — ’Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Manipal, Plumbing and Water Supply Works, 
Manipal, Udipi Taluk, Mysore State have agreed that 
the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be 
made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification sha’J be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of June, 1971. 

[No. S.35019(49)/72-PF.II.] 

W-WTo 2 oe-tra; SEffa ^TTt fa 

Bkf tfafaW, TOfaHT qay WTTO WTOlt TOR? , wBfai*F, 

TRW WTW SWEET ft STOra ffafaPF Bk 

Bfwro fafw tfk jrow B tot fafw ^rfarfaroro, 1952 (1952 
TO 1 9) B? TTOEN’ TO WFT =P> vTPj; fat[ TOf^t I 

WcT:, SR, TOT wfwfaWR WTO 1 TOWTO ( 4 ) 
am WTO StfacTWf TO JETfa TOCf fir, %?jjffa WTOR TO Sffw- 

faww % toew to sweet stej; toeB f, i 


W^ WfagTOTT 1971 %• JTWW far W^ST gf 

STTOft TOtfat I 


[Bo fTST° 35019 ( 4 9 ) / 7 2— ° fr^o 2 ] 


S-O. 2907. — Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Q. 987 Chatrapatti Co-Operative Milk Supply 
Limited, Chatrapatti Post, Rajapalayam, Ramnad Dis- 
trict have agreed that the provisions of the Employees' 
Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 
(19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said 
establishment; 

Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Cen- 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment; 

This notification shall be deemed to have come Into 
force on the first day of March, 1972. 

[No. S. 35019 (51) /72-PF.II(il).] 


§1.0. 2908— In exercise of the powers conferred by 
first proviso to section 6 of the Employees’ Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (10 of 1052), 
the Central Government, after making necessary enquiry 
into the matter, hereby specifies with effect from the 
1st March, 1972, the establishment known as Messrs 
Q. 987 Chatrapatti Co-operative Milk Supply Society 
Limited, Chatrapatti Post, Rajapalayam, Ramand Dis- 
trict for the purposes of the said proviso. 

[No. S.35019(51)|72-PF.II(il).] 
VTo WTo 2 0 08- — %?sBw SRTOS TOTWTTT wfaTO 

fafw tfk 3 >rwr tot fafw, wfwfaww, 1952 (1952 to 

1 9 ) tB WTO 6 $ WWW TOR^f sro JJWTT Vrfafaf TO sfafa 
tob f^, srorar faro B wetoef wfw trB ^ q-iprr^ 1 ttB, 
1972 B%Bt^o 987 StlHfd ^WlM^feq' facTT 
faf+td’S, ©^rfa tRt, trnqtfpt, torte' fairr tpto 
WET "FT tTfl^TO TO mg^F % JpffaT fafalw 

[Bo qWo35019(5l)/72-*ftoqr<T>o 2(ii)] 


S.O. 2909.— Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Sowraj Pictures, Hari Palace Building, JullundUr 
City including its branch care of Simla Talkies Ferozpur 
City have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ 
Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 
(19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said 
establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of November, 1971. 

[No. S. 35010 (52) /72-PF,II(J).J 



Sec. 3(H)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 4333 


ETo ETo 2 90 9 — EE: E7ETT Ef EE TEk 

5FTT ft fE EEif feete faEE#, sfr fa?E fafa?E, ee-et 
fjRT% ETETT H itiE faTEET ETE) A, faNfafiJE WR 

#pfer 1 1 efte fttte E ert^" fETtw irk Etf Erfkff 
lit EfEOT $E E7E TE EJEE ft E$ ft fE EEETft EfacE 
fafar ifk jror ?*ft farfsr EfafaEE, 1952 ( 1952 ET 19 ) 
% ete^st w wm et ef£ Pptr et% Eiff f ; 

EcL, m, EET EfsrfaEE E?f ERT 1 Et ETOTTT ( 4) 

am tee uiPfriTt et snfk Ekr frr %Efkr hock m 

EfafaEE % EWET RET PJM aft <7Ef3TTT EFT ETfit 

ft I 

Ef Wftrgw 1971 % EERR % TEE faff aft TEE 
jpf ?mft '4ii' < ft i 

[Tfo t^r_35019( 52)/72-'ffaE 2 (I) ] 


S.O, 2910. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
first proviso to section 6 of the Employees’ Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952). 
the Central Government after making necessary enquiry 
Into the matter, hereby specifies with effect from 1 st 
November. 1971 the establishment known as Messrs 
Sowraj Pictures, Harl Palace Building, Jullundur City 
Including Its branch care of Simla Talkies Ferozpur 
City for the purposes of the said proviso. 

[No. S.35019C52) 172-PF.II (ii) .] 


ETo ETo 2 91 0 — %EftE TOR Efalft EfasE 

faftr nk ^V et fafa EftrfkrE, 1952 ( 1952 ET 19 ) 

aft trm 6 % tee ee^e am tee wfaffEf et wk Eifa 

gr{ ETE^faEE ?r ETE?EE ETE TOrl % TTOT?[ EERR, 
1971 % 9RTST pREE, fff 'fEE fafaFE, EETT EfT, 
farE? waft etet et&[ frmr^rr TOfffar, ftkDrjr EfT 

EfWvId ft, EBTE REET aft REqmr EET H % TTtETT 

% Pro fafarfa^ amfr ft 1 

[tfo iTE-- 35019 ( 52 )/ 72 J ttcrP 2 (H)] 


8.0. 2911.— Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority ol the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Laxmi Starch Limited, Nacharam, Industrial 
Area, Hyderabad have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees' Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
[h 9 said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification sl^ill be deemed to have come Into 
force on the first day of April, 1971. 

[No. S. 35019 (103) /71-PF.II(i).] 


ETo ETo 2 91 1 — EE: 1 %?;ftE TREK E> E? TfftE 

‘"ftET ft far RET to!' farftRF, eerte, SErfa^EE 
rItet, 3eeete etw ertite % errst farEknr irk 
TTErfafif Tf Tffi'wr frr tie tr etee ft t Ef £ far WEirt 
Efa<E fkffer Ek f erf twe fafar EftrfEEE, 1952 (1952 

ET 19) E ETEE EFT TEfTE Et BTE fartT Elfa Erfft^; 


EE.', EE, ETT EftrfaEE TTt Em 1 rfa ETEm ( 4 ) 
Tm TTE wfaTEf ET TTtE '+> </i ^ Et+K EW 

EfEfEEE % ETE^tr ETO ^EFTE E> ^[IRf ETE ET?fV 

ft I 

EfsPJEET 1971 # E^E % TEE faE El TfE 
EESfV ET^ifV I 

[EoET-35019(l03)/71-Tku 2 ( 1 )] 


8.0. 2912- — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
first proviso to section 6 of the Employees’ Provideni 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
the Central Government, after making necessary en- 
enquiry into the matter, hereby specifies with effect from 
the 1st April, 1971 the establishment known as Messrs 
Laxmi Starch Limited, Nacharam, Industrial Area, 
Hyderabad, for the purposes of the said proviso. 

[No. S. 35019 (103) /71-PF.II (II).] 

ERo ETo 2912 — +K+K e4erV Efaw 
fafE Ek fERT 'faTE fafe EfEfaEE, 1952 ( 1952 «FT 
19 ) «fa am 0 % TEE mjE JRr TEE EfaEEf ET TEtE 
Jfrkrgcr, EIE3[faEEJr ETE7W EtE Ekr % TFETq; 1 Elf E, 

1971 % j?ee’ mtit rmf eehte, rEfa^EE 

EfkrT, etee rENE Et ndr^rrr eee tt^e ^r 

TEkni ^r fkc[ fafarf^E et# ft i 

[E® t^E— 3501 9( 1 03)/ 7 1— t ftt[Ti2(ii)] 


S.O. 2913.— In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the first proviso to section 8 of the Employees’ Provi- 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (10 of 
1952), the Central Government, after making necessary 
enquiry into the matter, hereby specifies with effect 
from the 30th June, 1971, the establishment known as 
Messrs Pharmaceutical and Chemical In dent or’ s [A 
Division of Sarabhai Sons (Private) Limited, Acharya 
Jagadish Chandra Bose Road, Calcutta-20 for the pur- 
poses of the said proyiso. 

[No, S.35017(23)/72-PF.II(ii).] 



4334 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part C— 


Wo wo 291 3. — gwrn: wtgttT wfeG fa-fq- 
«rk jgw m f?rflT GfsjfGWT, 1952 ( 1952 w 19 ) ^ 
arm 6 % sm jrt sttg FifwGf w wt>t wgT ft*, 
G-G^f^^wwm: ofe wrr^qTWG 30 w, 1 97 1 
ggg WGfwfGw qw #Fgw fiw (wnrrf wt 
(WWcr) fvrfVJs W WTTG), 1, WGTG WGfG WJ GtG 
% fw[ +*<.dl | 1 

[Go ^r-35017(23)/72-q^ 2(ii)] 


S.O. 2914. — Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Pharmacutical and Chemical Indentors [A Divi- 
sion of Sarabhai Sons (Private) Limited], 1. Acharya 
Jagadish Chandra Bose Road, Calcutta-20 have agreed 
that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds 
and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should 
be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirtieth day Qf June, 1971. 

[No. S.35017 (23) /72-PF.II (i) .] 

Wo Wo 2 9M. — W: G<4>K 3ft Gcfe 

ffe % for TO WT #frRTvr #GG (wTTWf 

gw (wwg) fcrfPTS w twi), i-Wdi4 wfe gw 
«ftG xYt, wtwtt— *20, h imp ?T fa 41 01 + wVt 

q nj wfuff # WGW fFWP GjWT sft Tf t f% WIG iff 
*rfeG faftr sfe tgw qfer fafi j srfsrfGGG, 1952 (1952 
W 19)% G'-igST GW TWTG HPT fwf =^Tf fei; 

wt:, wt, gw Gfarfawr srro 1 gwttt ( 4) 

5TTT 5RTT ?rfWGf W TPffG «t><r) i^TT feffG GTWT GW 
SrfsrfpWT % GWFG GW GTTGG <fTf PcIT JTTT WT Writ | I 

GfejGGT 1971 % W % 30G fe GTf GfG ff 
GGsft wFff 1 


[Go tTR-35017(23)/72-'ftiT'£ 2(i)] 


S O. 2915. — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em- 
ployees 10 relation to the establishment known as 
Moser* Np-Lonv P-'vate Ltd.. New Delhi, 20-Regal 
Buildin". Connaught Place. N°w Delhi have agreed that 
the provisions of P’e Employees’ Provident Funds and 
Familv Pehsion F”nd Act. 1952 0 9 of 1952), should be 
made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now. therefore in exercise of the powers conferred 
hv sub-section (4' of section 1 of The said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 

the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come Into 
force on the first day of January, 1971. 

[No. S. 35019(177)/71-PF.II.] 
Wo Wo 2915. — GG: ^iikRTWT GTfGf WtG 

iflTT | far g<tg w wt farfGGT, g£ feoff- 2 0 , 
fm fafaw, tw: wg, g| fe# w % 
fafatwr ?fk GfaGrfaGT # srpfeT gtg gt 
Gf GG fT Gf| far ^TWfr GfeG fesT Gk fCTG T5TG fafal 
GfGfGGG, 1952 ( 1952 W 19) % GWGI GW PTTGG 
Gif WT fw? '4l*f ; 

wt:, wt, gw wflarfferrr g 5F mw 1 Gif gwtt 

( 4) TPJ 5RW GfWGf W G1>T GT^f RTWT 

gw srfsrfew % sfwa' i3W ?4 ttt ^tT wT^wcff 

til ?rflfgwTr 1971 ^ wrwt % tt^pt fer E &t 

|| RinfT wfe 1 

[lio l^-35019(l77)/71- , ftoq<E« 2] 


New Delhi, the 18 th Jvly 1972 

S.O. 2916.— In exercise of the powers conferred by the 
first proviso to sectioh 6 of the Employees’ Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
the Central Government after making necessary en- 
quiry into the matter, hereby specifies with effect from 
the 1st April 1970 the establishment known as Messrs 
Raja Charity Trust, 150/A, Mount Road. Madras-2 in- 
cludihg its Depots at (1) No. 19, 20, 21, Mooker Naila- 
munthu Street, G.T. Madras, (2) 23/1306, Mahatma 
Gandhi Road, Ernakulam. Cochin-16, and (3) 2/208, I 
Block I, Main Road, Rajaji Nagar, Bangalore-10 for the 
purposes of the said proviso. 


[No. S.8 (208) /70-FF .II (ii).] 


?ft feifr, 18 1972 

W° Wo 29’6. — THWT T*Hl0 ^rf4w 
PtRt iik frw twt fesr, srftjferr, 1952 (1952 

W 1 9) 3TTT 6 % 5IWT 9<.t£+ WG HWcT 5TfePlt W 
5TTt-TW^|^, TO feT if WWWP WT 
1 WTcT, 1970 fT WTlf TTW ’tfet 1 5 0/tr, W3W 
ffe, WJW-2, fwt (l) Go 19,20,21, WWfG 
irfto R3TB, ( 2 ) 23/ 1306, BflW GPlf 

Tui' f wtT jr?TG- 16 . srk ( 3 ) 2 / 208 , wf wgt, 
GR Tfe TTWjff GW, TGcf[ T - 1 0 fWG feft 
Tj-fiq'rw ^ , WTT r GTTG Tt GW GTWff % 

fer faFdfei- WGf | I 

[Go qG-8(208)/70-Tto^qTo-II(il)] 



Sic. 300] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 2*. 1S»4 


4335 


New Delhi, the 21st July, 1972 

S.O. 2917. — In pursuance of clause (e) of sub-sec- 
tion (1) of section 5-A of the Employees’ Provident 
Funds and Family Pension P\md Act, 1952 (19 of 

1952), 

(i) Shri Sisir Kumar Ganguly, General Secretary 
I.N.T.U.C. Bengal Branch, Calcutta; and 

(ii) Shrl V.R. Hoshing, M.L.A.. General Secretary. 
Rashtriya Mill Mazdoor Sangh, Bombay; 

as members of the Central Board of Trustees and 
makes the following further amendments in the noti- 
fication of the Government of India, in the Ministry 
of Labour. Employment and Rehabilitation (Depart- 
ment of Labour and Employment) No. S.O. 2412, dated 
the 6th July, 1970, namely: — 

In the said notification against serial Nos 28 and 29, 
for the entries, the following entries shall be substi- 
tuted, namely: — 

“(28) Shri Sisir Kumar Ganmilv, General 
Secretary, I.NT.U.C. Bengal Branch, 177IB, 
Acharya Jagadlsh Bose Road, Calcutta-14. 

(29) Shri V. R. Hoshing, M.L.A., General Secre- 
tary. Rashtriya Mill Mazdoor Sangh. Mazdoor 
Manzil, G. D. Ambekar Marg, Parel, Bombay- 
12 ”. 

[No. 3(5)|69-PF.II.] 

if fowfr, 21 TOIlf, 1972 

Too too 2917 . — ’Mhrrff fa% 

?spt fa% srftrfaRR, 19.82 ( 1 952 to 1 9 ) 

TOTT 4ft TOEK!' ( l ) % 1TO? (*) % TOTRUR if 

TOT — 

(i) isft %ftn; toto »rnr*ft, tor to£ « itro 

efto *fto RRRT TO, ; Rtf 

(ii) tfnft* rtoo sftfaR, fao to no, to t r P to, 

ftpr rr. tor! ; 

•fit TOfft Rtf % RTORf % 5 f ffTTTTTT faTTT 

TOft I Rtr KTTR TOR % JSTH, flTOTTT zflr R)TOfiT 
RRTTOT ( RE tftr tt Mir < faEFf ) Tt Rp-IRKH I jfo TOoRfo 
2412, irrfNr e R[crrf , 1970 % fa nR-ifad qtr Bfgfrsnr 
TTcft : — 

TOR RftPJd-il if, TOT ?fo 28 rV? 29 % Enfa, 
SjPifaut % Pm IT, PrrofRrfer Rfafelt RfETOTfaR 
REfc[ ; — 

"(28) «ft fwfVr ntroft, R g T RfRR , 

RT$o RTO ^to Ro ?fto d'j|H 7TPTT, 177/Et, 
TOTOPf TOfiffa RtK -dr, TOTTOTT -14 t 

(29) ^ft 4 to yp<o iftfsiR, fro Be Ro, rktrItot, 
TTTOpr faE REfT RfTOf, 3ft o fto Rrfar 
Rpt, t^t, RTOf- 12 " 1 

[tfo 12 ( 5 ) j 69—^0 t^5o 2 ] 


Netu Delhi, the 24 th July 1972 

S.O. 2918 — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
first proviso to section 0 of the Employees’ Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1052), 
the Central Government after making necessary enquiry 
into the matter, hereby specifies with effect from the 
■10th April, 1972, the establishment known as Messrs 
Shroffs Engineering Private Limited S, No. 635. Kolali 
Road, Atladra District Baroda, for the purposes of the 
said proviso. 

[No. S. 35019(40) /72.PF.II(ll).] 
Effaecft, 24 RUif 1972 
TO 0 ET 0 291 8— %pfPT ff'GRK, TOf ETft KfETO fafa 
RfafTTR fwT ffifol 5ff^bTRR, 1952 ( 195 2 TO 1°) 
RTTT 6 % ERE EEPfR RPT EUR vrfwfif TO EEtR 
TOR frr, TOTOfEEE ^ RTTOTO Rfa TOR 1 % ETRTR 30 
5P?R, 1972 ft TOTE ^fTfRilfTR Etf^E 
RR Ro 6 3 5, TOT'ft TOR, RTETOJT fsfa^TO, RftET, 
ETERI TETEE fift rrrpr JRT TOR TOTO % EEtETEf ^ 
fRR faffilW TOEf | I 

[R° t[R o 35019(40)/72 'ft® 2 (ii)] 

New Delhi, the 24th July 1972 

S.O. 2919— Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs United Investment Corporation, 14/ IB, Ezra 
Street. Calcutta-i have agreed that the provisions ' of 
the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952) should be made applicable 
to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (41 of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come Into 
force on the first day of April, 1971. 

[No. S. 35017(14) /72-PF.II.] 
farofr, 24 ’TOrf 19 72 


TOo TO 2 9 1 R-TOl Rffiil < 4?) RiffR | 

"fa VRTOffF TTRffuR, 1 4/1 afV, ^TOT 

, RkTORTT— * 1 RTRT if RBiTR farffaRf 
RRfarfuff RfRTOTTR RTR TO RspTR ft Rf 

% fa TffRTTt HfacR fafa R>T fTOR R TOT fafR 
RfKrfTOR, 1952 ( 1952TO 19) % TORR RRR UTTRR 
r?T Rif ; 

TOT: ,TOf, TOR wfa'fRRR^t TORT 1 fiftTORPR (4) JTTF 
<ttr urfaurT to rtYr tto 1 fir %vfur totot tor 

Rf’jfaTO % UTRR RTO R4TTR Ft ERTTTTT TOR 
TO?ft ^ I 

Rf RfaT RRT 1 97 1 % TOfvT, ^ RRR fa*T ^ RfU 
RRtfff TORtft I 

[Ro i^Ro 35017( 14)/72 'ftofJTIo 2 ] 


4336 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Past II- 


S.O. 2924. — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority oi the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs New India Machine Manufacturing Company, 
4, Chandni Chowk Street, Calcutta-13 have agreed that 
the provision of the Employees’ Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be 
made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of March, 1971. 

[No. S. 35017/1 1/72-PF.IL] 

TO°TOT° 29 20. — TT: %T?Vt TTTOT TOT Tf TTfa 
ftTT I fTO TTT ^ iftrTTT mfa TTTOTOTf’T ^Tq-jfV, 4 
TTTOTV tNt TOTTOTT- 1 3 TPITO (TO (I OTOT3F 

fTT>TO> TOfa TOTTOrPcff TOV TfTTTT IT TITO TO TfTT fT 
*rf | % totttoY Tfroro frrfsr toV tototo <fsrr fTfsr TOfar- 
fTTTO 1952 ( 1952TO 19), % TOTT TIT STITT TOT 
fTOJ TOT% TOTfftr; 

TOT: TOT TOT TOfrfTTT TO> OTTT 1 TOV TOSTKT ( 4 ) 
Tirr totot TffTTf nr srr>r trct fq totot to 
TOfrfTTT % TOTT TOT (TO n> ITTTRT TOT TOTTt | I 

Tf ?rfsrg;TOiT 1971 % ttt % 3 if per ift tot gf 

TWf I 


[fo tTtfo 35017(ll)/72-TVotr^o 2 ] 


S.O. 2921. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Economic and Political Weekly, Skylark 284 
Frere Road, Bombay-1, have agreed that the provisions 
of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pen- 
sion Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made ap- 
plicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of May, 1971. 

[No. S. 35017/ 54/7 1/PF.TI.] 

afrr°TO° 2921. — TT: friVT TTOTT TOt Tf TTflT 
ftTT I f% TOTT TTTTfTTO TOT Tlf TOfTOTO TOTOTO TOlf TTTO , 
2 84 TtT, TTT$— 1 bTTTO TOTTO ^TOT frrjfhr^ gfR 
TOTTOfrff T?t s^TWT IT TOT TO TOTOT TO Tf f f¥ TOTTRt 
»rfTOT fffT toYt fTO f TOT frfST TOfTfroro, 195 2 
( 1952 IT 19),% TOTT TOTTOTTTTOt TTT fTOT TOT 


TOT:, TOT, TOT TOfgfTTT T?t OTTO 1 TOTOTTO ( 4) 
TOTO TOT WflTOTf TO TOtT Tlct gf %^tT TTTOT TOFT 
TfTffTT % TOOTTO TO T ITTTO lit fTTITTO TNI TOZft | I 

TfTOfTfTTT 1971 Tit Tf % 3 if ffT lit OTfvT ff 
Tnft TOt^ft 1 


[To t^To-35017(54)/71-TtotTlio2] 


S.O. 2922. — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Bosco Machinery Private Limited, 4 Chandni 
Chowk Stret, Calcutta-13 have agreed that the pro- 
visions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made 
applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come Into 
force on the thirtieth day of April, 1971. 

[No. S. 35017/15/72-PF.II.] 

TO°OT° 2922. — TT:, %T?tT TTTOT lit Tf TOftT ftTT 
| % f TT ftTTOt TOwfaft OT##E f%fT3?T, 4, TFTTt ' 
ifk, TOTTOTT— 13 TTTTO TOTTTT (I OTTOS' faftTOF TOfa. 

to TTOrfrff toV Tffnrr it tot to TgTTftnf IfroTOHTvft 

TOfTOT tf TOVir fTOT ITT frfTO TOfafTTTO, 1952 ( 1952 
TO 19),% TTTTO TOFT ITFTT TOf TTf fTO^ TTY TOTfgf, 

TOT:, TOT, TTT TOfTOfTTTO TOV OTTO 1 TOV TOTOTTO ( 4) 
STTO TIT TOffTTf TO TOTpT TOlf %?stT TTTOTT TOT 
TOpTOfTTr % TOf TO TOT ITFR TO> tJTS,SITO TOBJ TOTOft | I 

Tf TOfOTITOTT 1971 % TOTT % 30f ffh TO> STTO 
ff TTffV TOTtrft I 


[To t?To 35017 (l 5 )/ 72 -fVo <nfio 2] 


S.O. 2923.— Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Agricultural Produce Market Committee, New 
Monda, Nanded have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the 
said establishment; 

Now. therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
W sub-eeetfon (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Gnve"nment hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of October, 1971. 

[No. S. 35017(69) /71-PF.II.] 



4337 


SeC, 3(ii)] 


tttE GAZETTE OP INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/AS VINA 29, 1894 


2923. — FT: %rfk (RW »fft JTrflcT 
^rrrr $ F* trft ipfkTnTT mr Ffttft, ^ fT'Tt, 
tptfi firm ft ttft; ftftkrr sfR FWTOftftT ft 
FjjftWT hit srnr ft t$tt ftt ft fv Fk^nTt *rfft«T 

fftfft *FU fCTf F'FPT fftfft Wfsrfft^DT, 1952 ( 1952 FT 

ie), % 3W^ tft wm Fft smj fftq «nft 

<tt:, w , tft wfsrfftTiT qft urt l 4 ft TFtnrr ( 4 ) 
im sum wfororlr ft wI^t FRft 3 ^ ttftt tft srfkf'm 
■ft TO? TO WITT Fft^IRT TT^FRTV ft I 

it? wftrg^PTr i9 7i % ftfstt % wfTTft Fff Fft 

mrw jf froift orruftV 1 

[fto qrHo-350l7(69)/71-7toiT91o 2 ] 

8.0. 2924. — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority 01 the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Indo-Overseas Trading Agencies, Gaumukh 
Bhuvan, Opposite Maajid Railway Station, Bombay-9, 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Pro- 
vident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 
of 1952), should be made applicable to the said estab- 
lishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of December, 1971. 

[No. S-35018/30/72-PF.1I.] 

«frrowr<> 2924 . — Ter: fcak ttpr f?> ^ trefkj 
ftterr ft fft> ftrrft V'rt wtmfkr f fftr rprkkf ntt, 
ttFff krF vt^t % TRift, 9 niror toiht ft ttois 

FTFItf tflT TrftTTfrftf TV *T TTT FT T^FT 

ftt fI ft Ft TTTrct vtFpr faFsr ftk jto ftpt FtFst 

wFuFtW, 1952 ( 1952 FT 19), % TFFT TFT FFTFT 
Tf fftrtj Tift Tr%; 

wer:, tt, tft TfaFm tV arn i *ft TFaro ( 4) 
JTO SIFT TfftTftf FT SR>F FRft Jtr TTFTT TFT 

WFaPlTT % TFFV TFT FFTFT Ft qTTJRT FRfft ft I 

jt$ wfa^rr 197 1 % Ptwrr % Fft Fft 

ffijfT rnnft irkTl - i 

[fto t^efo— 35018 ( 30)/7 2 — 'TV ot^K ° 2 ] 

8.0, 2935.— Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em- 
plo'yws in relation to the establishment known as 


Messrs G. Loucatos and Company, Mercantile Cham- 
bers, Graham Koad, Ballard Estate, Bombay-1, have 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), should be made applicable to the said establish- 
ment; 

Now, therein, e, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of December, 1970. 

[No. S-35018/31/72-PF.IL] 
FT° tlTo 2925 — TT: FTrV TOE Ft FT ark 

ftiTt ft Ff tttt% NtFrm T-my ftftt, itt+rt?t 

T*TT, TTTT 7 nr, q<T|i 1 TfTFT TOTTF ft 

T«TS f.TTlTd'T-i' TiT FTTTfRri TV TfT® 7 T FIT 
IT TqTT ft Ft ft f"F FTTR> TftR ffiftf sffT FRIT 
TOT FnftI trFaFm, 195 2 (l 952 TT 19 ),^^)? 
TFT * TTTT TT TT^hnr Rrft TTf^ ] 

FT' r:, itt strFaffiFF k trm 1 kr ttori ( 4 ) 

jrtTTrrT tlfFTTf TT tpflF FR# ^ F TTTR TFT 

R-rtTfR-rR T Tktl TFT T«rm Fit htttRI FRrfr 

ftl 

V ?'i TTT [ 1970 ^ FRTTTt % fk apt 

JT^xI ft tTTffr Tnrk I 


[ftc h(To— 35018 ( 3 l) / 72 — 0 2 ] 


S.O. 2926. — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Salya.iarayan Bishnukumar, 14, Naurmall Lohia 
Lane, Calcutla-7 have agreed that the provisions of 
the Employees' Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable 
to the said establishment; 


Now. therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred 
by sab-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of March, 1071. 


[No. S. 35017(12) /72-PF.II.] 


Fdo ?Tr° 2926. — TT: TRFR Fft srfftT 

ft Ft TGT TFTTrTORT fFWpTR, 1 4, TOfftTT 

Nd, TNTttl-7 TPTT TOFT FT ft TTO5 fftfttFPF ftk 
TV sTjjft’TTT TTT FT TfW 5 ) 4^ ft 

ft Ft TTFRt tFspr FtFst wk frnr ftpt F^fft 

^ftrrn'FTf, 1952 ( 1 952 TT 1 9), TFT WFPRt 

TT^FFk Ttft TTf^ ; 



4 338 


wt:, wt TTOwfwfTTwTOwRr x TO towrt ( 4 ) 
iRr R-frf srfaTOT to TOft to:# gq, TOTOt totoY tot 
WfafaWT Y 5W3 TOT ^erTCRT TO qTTJRT TR tTOY 
1 1 

wg wftrcpprr 1 9 7 1 TO wnf % ^toYtt far TO wro 

g$ fmft TrqTO 1 

[WoqTo 35017( 12)/72-ffoq>Bo2] 


(Part n — 


TOo WTo 2928- — TOTOw TRTOT TOfWlTO WfalW 
f^rffer wYtJTOW 'TIFT fafa WfafaTW, 1952 ( 195 2 TR 
19) TO STRT 6 #T SWT TR^F SIR TTOT ufaflWt TO STRICT 
to# gq, ttn f*m $ witto^ wiw to# % tswtt 3 1 
T$, 1971 # qo3t VTfTJTOT TOTRTTT, TO- 2 2, rNY 
#T, VTTOTT-1 TRFF Rim TO qTTTRT TOT TR$T 
% srTOsrTO % farq farfrfTNr «trtV 1 1 

[WoqTo 350 1 7( 3 3)/?2— TOoqTio 2() ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


S.O. 2927. — Whereas It appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority oi the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Indo Industrial Complex, P-22-Swal.ow Lane, 
Calcutta-1, have agreed that the provisions of the Em- 
ployees' Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 
1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the 
said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of May, 1971. 

[No. S-35017 (33) /72-PF.II-(i) .] 

TO° mo 2927. — TT: TOTOt TOE TO Tg WrftT 
t FT t?TT g»TO TOFFTOW, TO- 2 2 rNY #FT, 

tot^to-i titr ttoet Y w wYr mfmfRff 
TO tjttot tot to wgwr gY fit I Ft TOfmTO 
WfTR fqfET wYl fFTO TIFT faff? wfafaRT, 195 2 
( 195 2 TO 19) % TTOTT TOT STOTT TO TT^farq TO# 

mFgq; 

WT:, WT 'TOT wfafTTWTONRr 1 mV TOSTRT ( 4 ) 
trt TOrr irfadTO to tTOw TO# gq TOTOw TTOTR TOT 
wfarfaww % tow tot stott TOsrnj; trtY % 1 

Wg WfasjWTT 19 71 TO TOr % ^TOWYeW fTT TO 

wgro gf twtTO wrqTO » 

(to qT, —35017{33) /72— 'fVoqT) 2 (i)] 


S.O. 2928.-~In exercise of the powers conferred by 
first proviso to section 6 of the Employees' Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
the Central Government after making necessary enquiry 
into the matter, hereby specifies with effect from the 
31st May, 1971 the establishment known as Messrs Indo 
Industrial Complex P-22 Swallow Lane, Calcutta-1 for 
the purposes of the said proviso. 

[No. S. 35017/33/72-PF.II(il),] 


S.O, 2929. — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority or the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs. Raja dye House, 27-B, Eswaran Koil Street, 
(iNortn) Tn-uppur-4 have agreed that the provisions of 
the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable 
to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April, 1972. 

[No. 8-35019(04) /72-PF.II.] 

TOo m<> 2 929. — TOT: Wfa TRTOT TO Tg wTOT 
gYcTT I far TWT TTTT TOf gTTT, 2 7-TO, §?TRT TOqW 
(TOR) , fWTO—4 TRW STOTT T SRTOI fafalTOr WTO 

«p4mlRTt TO wgww gw tot to wgww gY wt | far 

WRTOVT wfTOR fTfasTfafTOT TIFT fwfa WfwfaWT, 
1952 ( 1952 TO 19) % TOWN TOW STOWW TO 
farq tot mfgq ; 

.*> mi:, WT TOW WfwfWTOT TO ETRT 1 TO TONRT ( 4) 
SRT TTOT irfarwf TO TOTfa trt gq TOrtw TRTOT TOfT 
WfufTTT^TOTT TTTWFH TO qTTSRT TO^ TRY 
t ' 

Tg wFt^TTT 1 972 % mfa % 5T<TT far TO ST TOT 
ttTO mqTO i 


[To qTo 35019( 64)/72— TOo q*Fo 2] 


S.O. 2930. — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority or the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs. Kunkumam Printers and Publishers, Perun- 
thanni, Trivandrum-8, including its branches Kunku- 
mam Weekly, Trivandrum-8 and Keralasabdam Weekly 
Trlvandrum-8 have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fipnd 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 



Sec. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4339 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall come into force 0 n the Thirty- 
first day of May, 19 72. 

[No. S-35019(fl0)/72-FF.II.] 

FToOTo 2 930.— FT: *RFR Tfi FT F^flH FtTT f fF 

ftth jjrf fHRH, fHHH 

^TTaffT STP3TT, JJHH hVfhV, fHFHH-SHYT %RT HOTH 
FfF T>, fHTOT- 8 HT | TFTF RTTFF H TOTH ffi F tHF 

^n^Tfnff Ft FgHsFr, i$h ftf ft h?tth i\ f? 
■"Ghhifr wfOT fMtj sfR jot tot frfy HfRfaHH, 1952 

( 1 952 FT 19) % TOTH 3 FT OTTT Ff HTJ fFF HTT 

; 

ht:, m, tht HfafFFH qft hrt 1 Ft ftstrt ( 4) 

ftKI FFH WfTTFT FT FFPT FTT gF %RtF TRFTT TRH 
Srftjf-TtHT % TROT GET pqTFH Ft (JHJirjRT HR FHrft 

I I 

' FF HfHJFTT 197 2 Ft fit F ^FTHtHT fOT Ft STFH 

?m I 

[?To t3^o-35019( 60)/72-'ftoq c Ro 2] 

SO. 2931 — Whereas It appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs. Tradesworth, Lake Road, Commercial Building, 
Tezpur, Assam have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come Into 
forec on the first day of October, 1971, 

[No. S-35019 (65) /72-PF.II.] 

FT° ’ITT o 2 93 1 — FT; FRfla fi t+R Ft F^ Spftd 
| f% f TRpf , ^RT <t?, FHfHFH fdfHfFF, ttHjR 

SEW FPTF PTFFT H tOT4 fTFtHF FFTTfTFT Ft Hg- 
RW TTT FT R£FT JT F^ & fF F^fiRt Hfaw ffifsT 
HtH JOT TOT frfa FfTpTFF, 1952 ( 1 952 FT 19) F 
FFOT TFT RHTFT FT HPT fFJ HR ; 

fh:, ff, hft irtyffiTR' Ft srnr 1 fT hffrt 

(4) 3TTT FFH HfWFt FTFFtF WTflT 

"3FT nfdf-iah % HTFR 7W T’FTFF Ft FT^JTTT HP£ FTfft 

I I 


F? Ff^HHT 1 97 1 % HHcjHT % FHH fFT Ft 
Wft HTTTift | 

[ijo^q-o— 35019( 65)/72- ,! fV<t’T^o 2 } 


S.O. 2932. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known aa 
the Messrs Tenzing Transports (P) Ltd. 9-l-71 t Raja- 
ratnam Street, Sivakasi, Tamil Nadu State have agreed 
that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds 
and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
should be made applicable to the said establishment. 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of June, 1971. 

[No. S.35019(113)]71-P.F.II(i)] 


FTo 137° 2932. — FF: %rftF TRFR Ft 4^ ipfl’cf 
FftdTtfWtpf fRTfsRT ^ tFTTtcf ?T (HT° ) 9-1-71 

VLtRcRH pfR, fffTTTRft, dffiHdl 5 TT^RT dT’PT PTFET 
^ tfRiJ fddWi srk Tr^TifTTr vt djdwr tt tpt qr 
TT^TTcf 'fipRT ffifij rf\T JOT TSTd fdfij 

<TfsrfWT, 1952 ( 1952 4T 19) % HWTI 

RTFR qst HPT ; 


5PT:, m, Tfd HrtJpPPT TRI 1 qf[ TTSTTTT ( 4) 
TRT TTH TT TTTfi TTR j,t TTRT T=fT 

HfSTffiW % Tdd F4TRT W‘X Td^JRr HPT TRcft t | 


TF HffT^HfiT 1971 Hfl % STTfi fdd Ft TT[H f 
Hhwl 4 1 '[fit I 


[Ho JHo- 35019( 113)/71-Tto i^Fo 2 (i)] 


S.O. 2933. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the first proviso to section 6 of the Employees’ Provi- 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), the Central Government, after making neces- 
sary enquiry into the matter, hereby specifies with 
effect from the 1st June, 1971 the establishment known 
as Messrs Tenzing Transports (P) Limited, 9-1-71 
Rajaratnam Street, Sivak,as"t, Tamil Nadu State for the 
purposes of the said proviso. 

[No. S- 35019(1 13) /71-PF. II (U).] 

FTo HTo 2933. — TRFR, FfifiR't HfOT 
faftjsfk 1952 (I952FT 19) 

Ff HTTT 6 F SPPT 'Rrd.k, 5RT HFH HfTHHf FT HtfPl FT^ 
5^, HTHTI fHHH if ^TRTPIF HTH FT% % TTfiTc[ 1 1971 

% ^THHRH (STTo) fHfH^, 9 - 1 - 71 , TT 4 H OT 



4340 


THE GAZETTE OF INt)lA : OCTOBER 21. 1972/ASVINA 19, 1894 


[Part li— 


T=f[Z, fTOrTOTO, NlfNNNT® TITO, w TORN Vl NTy - 
3W NTO TO rdft % TOITO % fTOJ fNffifdTO NWlt | | 


[N° TO° 35019( 113)/71-Tto 2 ( U) J 


S.O. 2934.— Whereas it app-ears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment , known as 
the Annavar Adike Company Limited, Sagar (Shimoga, 
District) have agreed that the provisions of the Em- 
ployees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the’ said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April, 1972. 

[No. S.35019/57/72-PF.II.] 

TOo STTo 2 934. — TO: TOsIVj fil+K TO Nf Tfrfi 

| fT TOTITO To NTTO (fTOftNT 

fron) ntnt torn % iwra (fill'll tfk- idiiik'ff 

N§HTOT ^ TON TO NfTTO S["t n£ | fv TOHT<3 

fNfsr wVt fJTOfTO froTn srfErfwr, 1952 (1952 to 

19) % ntori tto Ftm vt toF 

Wrf:, to, tort tF aw 1 ?ro ( 4 ) 

aw TON 91 fed NT TO TOFn TOxT gcr TOTOT TON 

wfgfNNN % tern wr torn TO i(,d r ^gi<i -+, <xfl 1 1 

tr^ srfirgTOT 1972 % ton, % nnn fro ’fit 4 'nn 

^ TO# TON# \ 

[to P;No 35019( 57)/72 'fto’F^ 0 2 ] 


S.O. 2935.— Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Tabor Estate, Asambur (B.O.), Yarcaud 
(Post) Salem District have agreed that the provisions 
of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pen- 
sion Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made ap- 
plicable to the said establishment; 

Now therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall he deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of January, 1972. 

[No, S. 35019(33)/72-PF.II] 

TOo ^CTT o 2 935. — NN: %7#N NTTOT VT N1!> JFftT^TT 
$ 1 % ftnt ntoto; wt°) nB'j* ('ftei) 

feTNT NINT TOl'-lN % TON3T 
# TFT NT N?NN fT N$ | fa +4dT# 


ffiftr tfrr nton TTpr fafer srfsrfNNH, 1952 (1952 to 
19) % TOTOT TON (To TO NTN^fap TO%TOfar; 

to:, to, ton TOTOnto TO aw 1 TO tonw ( 4 ) 

3W TOrT Tflftrof TO TOtN TO# gfi TO#F NTTOT TON 
TOllfaTO NNNTO TON TORN TO t[5^IW NF^ NT# ^ 1 

N? TOn^TOTT 1 9 7 2 TO NTNTTf ^ TOFT fTO TO TTWyT 
$ NN# TON# 1 

[No 3 501 9( 33) / 7 2- i rT 0 t[To 2 ] 


S.O. 2936. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Jawahar Higher Secondary School Neyveli including 
its branches at Block No. 9, Annexe and Block No. 18, 
Child Welfare Centre, Neyveli have agreed that the 
provisions of the Employees’ Provident Fund Family 
Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made 
applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers confer- 
red by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, 
the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of June, 1970. 

[No. S. 35019(1 60) /71-PF.lI.] 


VI o wio 2 936. — TO: TO#N NTTOT TO N^ N#N ^TOl 
I fa TOTT^T fRT TON, fTOt WFP No 9 

rr vftff ft gfK WFfi N° 1 8 ^NTTO TO3T, f^TO 
TOvt TOant fifrofro ntto ptotn % ntos froFro 
iqFx TONlfnff vt TO ®TO TO | fv TO- 

wft Nfroi fNfEI nFt TTON TOFT fdfF NftjfNTO, 19 5 2 
( 1952 TO 19) % TOTOt NTO TOTTN TOT TON fTOT, wF 

to^ ; 


TO:, TO, NTO IjfiTfNTO Tt TOT 1 VT TOTETW ( 4 ) 
^ NW TOtT NfTONT TO TOtN TOrT FwTN NTOTO NTO 
wMFnN % TTON NTO TOTNN Tt TOTSW TON NTOft | I 


N^^rfirgror 1970 vVnn% ton fro ttoF 

totoT 1 


[$ 0 TO' 35019 (l60)/71 -'fto inpo 2 ] 


SO. 2937. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the cm- 
nloyees in relation to the ' establishment known as 
the’ Bharat Forge Employees’ Cooperative Credit 
Society Ltd., Mundhava, Poona-1 have agreed that the 
provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be 
made applicable to the said establishment; 


Sec. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4341 


NoWj. therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by .sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Cen- 
tral Government hereby applies the provision of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of May, 1971. 

[No. S.33010(13)/72-PF.II(i).] 
fiff° siTo 2937. — TOR 

f>rr \ Ft '*rn?r fifrsf fifttrr Tftrrr- 

fir) FlFfiTT, JEW, 'TdT - 1 fiPTT FfiTTff fiTTTf FTfilNfiT 

tfry vNifTfif # ^rrr tt Tifficr ft 

fit t Fp TA'iifr fiiiw FtFt qfa tint t?r fflrftr ?tFtFrt 

' >a> O > 

1952 ( 1 952 TT 19) % Nfiff WEPT fid Ffif 

: fiT?r fff ; 


TEL, m, Nfiff fifffFfifiTT fif) STITT 1 fit) 3W ( 4) 
fTITT TTff wFfrpff fiff Tfitfi fiTFt fir fiTfifiT W S[Ft- 

Fnrrr % tttt tit wm tr fcTfSTU Tif TTifr 1 1 


tz trfdfm i97t tr pf % nw Fft tr ttt ft 
TTfiTft ’SfpT'ft i 


[to tfTo 35018( 1 8)/72-tto ftflo 2(i)] 


S.O. 2938. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the first proviso to section 0 of the Employees’ Provi- 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), the Central Government, after making necessary 
enquiry into the matter, hereby specifies with effect 
from the 1st May, 1971. the establishment known as 
The Bharat Forge Employees' Cooperative Credit 
Society Ltd., Mundhwa, Poona-1 for the purposes of the 
said proviso. 

[No. S. 35018 ( 18) /72-PFJKii).] 


iffo 5TTo 2 93 8 . — %etFt fiTfirn: *tFsrt ffffsr 

sfh: tbr FrFa srfafwr, 1952 ( 1952 w 19 ) 4 ft 

HTH 6 % fifiTTT STTfT firffifffif fifi STfitfi 

ff, THNf Ffifffi n FTfiHfifiT NTT TTff 1 iff , 1971 

% fiTTri qftsf mp7=rrf^ fifar *frfiTfi£t FtFttsi 

’J'ERT ffiT- 1 TTfiT fir) fdfSI'TT Tfiff fiyrjT % STfit- 

jfdt % Ftt fqFtfriw: vo) o l 


[fo PVTO-35018 ( 18)/72-Tto tffio 2 (ii)] 


S.O. 2939. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority M the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Beekav Metal Industrial, 37 and 38 Sidhpura 


Industrial Estate, Masranl Lane, ICurla, Bombay-70 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Pro- 
vident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 
of 1952), should be made applicable to the said esta- 
blishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Cen- 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of October, 1971. 

[No. S-35018/27/72-PF.II.] 


fiffo 5TT° 2939. — fiff: %?^Ft MTTH fir) fif tpftff 

fpir $ ffir firrtf JpFT 37 sftr 38 Fffsrjrr 

ReSd, tH.I d) ^rff, VtT ■•TmC - 7 0 •TTfifi) 
fJpfhifir vftr ^ntPct) «pV fifow wt 
fir?! tt wzm ft of | Ft finrffrft fi-Fr^T FtFt tfir firing 

ffifsr TlfTF-TTPr, 1952 ( 1952 4T 19) 

fiit TTpjFfi^ ^ ^rrffq: ; 


TFT:, SR) TfiT TrfkFpHT # STTLI 1 fiff TTTKI ( 4) 
£PT TTff Hlffifffif 4TI tffftfi fff %VTtT TPEIT TTT 
NtTFlfiff % TNT TPT PfiTTfi 471 hdfSTTT NTfi fiTTcf) X • 


fif ’crfkg^fiT 1971 %?ifiifT% 
PWt NTffi) I 


[TT® fff o 3 5 0 1 8 ( 2 7 ) / 7 2-4 ) o ffilo 2] 


S.O. 2940. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majorily of the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Chemico Gaumukh Bhuwan Masjid Bunder 
Bridge, Bombay-9 have agreed that the provisions of 
the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable 
to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Cen- 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of December, 1071. 

[No. S-35018/29/72-FF.IL] 


qTo TITo 2940- — Tff: %'JFT fiTTlT fi?t fiTJ STTFt 

r^tffi t Ft pwf #Fftt tfm ptFtt sett Ftt, 

9 TTfifil TfiTTff ?T IPTS' Ffifitfifi' 4l)T finffilftiff 41) 

fT firff tt ft fit |Ft fill ffrfr ftFfiEq- Fifer 

nVr TtR Ffifsi ^rFfTFEHT, 1952 ( 1952 fiff 19) % 
gtRTtT TTT PfiTTT fit) NPJ Fft ififT j 




m:, mr, dfid dfdfdfid fid dm 1 fid dmrm ( 4) 
5 TTT fififl mpRpft fid dfilfi filTd gir %dflfi dTfiirfi Bfid dfd- 
fdmr % dddd dfid ^mfidfi^gsm dFj fimfl | 1 

fig dfdtjddl 1971 fid ffimfiT % gfidfd^ ffid fid 

spfd mred 5riiTift 1 

[do C[do 35018 (29)/72-'fto Hfi>° 2] 


fifiomo 2942 .-%^ tKfi>KfitfdTCl dffiSfi fdfd *ffC 

fiddfdfd srfdfdfid, 1952 ( 1952 fid 19 ) fid am 
6 % m 'T7>gr ;nr trm wffififii wrr dfidr fir^d % \, dfis: 
famr Sr inwfr mg % th^ft srfid grmt 1 9 7 0 % 
mo dr£ ito^ TTrfrfwCT, mmi grmr, 29 -^; ^nct^r 
wrgm, mmS -20 gmgr wm fid d-igam w tt^p % 
fifitmfl %■ f^T pefF^itf. gtdd ^ I 


S.O. 2941. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Dr. Ghate and Associates, Maldon House, 29 
New Marine Lines, Bombay-20, have agreed that the 
provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act, 1932 (19 of 1952), should be 
made applicable to the said establishment; 

NoWj therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Cen- 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
gaid Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of July, 1970. 

[No. S-35018 (33)/72-PF.II(i) .] 


[fie. iTfi-o— 35018 (35)/72-Tto^o 2(ii)] 


S.O. 2943.— Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs, Three Stars Engineers, Ghaswala Estate, New 
Building, No. 3, Shop No. 0, 473 Arthur Road, Tardeo, 
Bombay-34 have agreed that the provisions of the Em- 
ployees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment: 

Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred 
bv sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Cen- 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of March, 1971. 

[No. S-35018 (38) /72-PF. II.] 


*bto mo 2 941 --fid: *rw<: ! Ft fig mfta $rtaT $ 

f% 3T° qTE dTFTg fTTIB, 29-^#^ 

rnfm, b «rf- 2 o ^ iNd .5 fdgi idr grf- 

m f t fi f fid ggd'wr gd md dr dgdd ad fit | ffir «h*IgiO 
dffimftfd ^fVr f^rffer ?rfErf?rEnT 7 1952 (1952 
fid 1 9 )% JH ,i i r y d'w fifii'-M fit 'mf f’fiU jfrt m PpO ; 

5 td:, mf, dfid dfdfdfid "fit dm 1 fid dfidm ( 4) 
ITTT STfiNf firffid fit fid dfitfi fimt sjd ^djflfi dTfi> IT dfig ’Hpd- 
fddd% dfifid dfid DfiTfid fid IPTfitiTO dBJ filttfl ^ I 

fig 1970 fid ddTt % fifid fog fid figm 

gt dTtnft I 

[ffo ITRo- 3 5018 (35) /7 2-tto 2(i) ] 

S.O. 2942. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the first proviso to section 6 of the Employees’ Provi- 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), the Central Government, after making necessary 
enquiry into the matter, hereby specifies with effect 
from the 1st July, 1970 the establishment known as 
Messrs Dr, Ghate and Associates, Maldon House, 29 
New Marine lines, Bombay-20' for the purposes of the 
said proviso. 


fido mo 2943 — fid: »'W fill fig; snfid s)rt 

t 1% eft md ^flfqmt, dldfildT ^ ffifvSfi, 
# 0 - 3 , WIN lfo-6, 473— m^T ffo, dPdfi, iffif-34 
fiTfifit mm d fdfildfii sfk fiidfiTfofif fid 
did fiT figfid gl fif % ffir fiififiKl dfmfi ffifd 
fm 1952( 1952 fifil9) % dfid 

pqTNT fi?r nbj; ffinT rnigrr ; 

me, m, dm 'fiftrfdfifi, fift dim 1 fiil wun ( 4 ) 

£m fififT 5Tffidfif fid dfitfi grr %7fld fiTfifiT dfid dfd~ 

Ppm % dfd fill TTdfjm mfifimflt • 

fig dfd^fifiT 1971 % fiTd % gfiirflfit ffid firf dfid 
jf dmfl mt[fit 1 

[do ndo35018(38)/72-flo trfijo2] 


S.O, 2944. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the 'majority of the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs. Ketu Textiles, 732, SIS Vithaldas Lane, M. J. 
Market, Bombay-2 have agreed that the provisions of 
+he Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act. 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable 
to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Cen- 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 


[No. S-35018 (35)/72-PF,II(ii),] 



SEC, 3(11)1 


4343 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVJNA 29, 1894 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the Thirtieth day of June, 1971, 

■ [No. S.35018(39)/72-PF.II.] 

Sfrro RTo 2 94 4.-RE: %EfTR HWr Et ER srftcT ^rr| 
fE 732, EE fqioTcM RE, REc^o 

RTET, ERT, 2 ETEE FREE E fEEtEE Ek Elf- 
ETfZEt Et E^REET fE ETE RE EB4E ft E^ t fE 

f*rf%r Efhc q-'^rr ErTa-f^TR", 1952 (1952 

ET 19) % TREET TEE FTTRE Et EF£ fER EFt ETffR ; 

SET:, EE, TEE Erf%rpT^nT, Et ErFT 1 EtTEHTO (4) 
am ree eFttet et reTe eft f r reeit tee 

ErptrFm % tretr tee ftire et rteert ete ezeT 1 1 

ER EftT^ETr 1971 E TjE E EIRE f?E Et R^E ff 
RESTt ETirift I 

[To ITT o 35018( 39)/72-'Ttot^o2] 


S O, 2945 — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majorily of the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Footwear Equipment, 237, Jodhpore Park, Cal- 
cutta-31 including its branch at Hi. Prince Anwar Shah 
Road, Calcutta-33 have agreed that the provisions of 
the Employees’ Provident P’unds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable 
to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Cen- 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment, 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirtieth day of November, 1971. 

[No. S 35017/30/72-PF.ll(il.] 

ET° Elo 2 945, — EE: E'RtE EZETR Et EE RETE ftET 
£ fE EZfREZ f PEilREZ, 25 7, E^ERTETE?, EEEET 3 1, 
fER% 1 6-fRR REEZ RTf FfE, EEEET -33^ fREt RTET 
*rl P-H R-l rl I, iihE PETRR 4 RTEJ fEEtEE RkE^ETfrEf 
»ft EfRW FR ETE RT EfRE Et qf £ f% EEETZt EfEE 

fqfffEtr qEEfqftT crfsrFmr, 1952 ( 1 952 et 19 ) 

% TRERT TEE TElHR Et EFT fE'[ ET% 4 1 f JR ; 

ETC:, EE, RET EFRfETE, Et RTTT 1 Et TER ITT ( 4) 
3TZT REE EfEFff ET RETE E’k fR, %ieTE R v 4, fi 
EfsrfEER, % TREE TEE PETET Et RREjitt EFT EZcft | I 

Ef EfEfEET 1 971 % EETt $■ rffa-f qff ERE 

EREt ETrnft I 

[E° ERo- 3501 7( 30)/72~qt<J t[Eo 2(j)] 


S.O, 2946. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
first proviso to section 6 of the Employees' Provi- 
dent Funds and Family Pensioh Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952). the Central Government, after making necessary 
enquiry into the matter, hereby specifies with effect 
from the 30th November, 1H71 the establishment known 
as Messrs Footwear Equipment, 257, Jodhpore Park, 
Calcutta-31 including its branch at 16, Prince Anwar 
Shah Road, Calcutta-33 for the purposes of the said 
proviso. 

[No. R.35017/30/72-PF.II(ii).] 

EfoRTo 2 946.— EETTE EZETZ EEETO EfEE ftfsT 
ERE ftfST TTfa-fEEE, 1952 ( 1 952 Ell 9) E> STRT 
6 % E'ER EZEJE 4TZT ERE EfEEEt ET RETT EFT f(T REST 
ftrTE if ETEETE EtE EZZt RTRTE 3 0 TE*EZ, 19 71 ft 
EjzfEEZ TfWTfE 257, EttFJZ Rpft, ETERI- 31 fEE# 

1 6 fEET EEEtElf Zk ETERT- 3 3 4 ^REt ETET RfiEffTE 
EIRE FREE ET mTETl^T TEE 'EVfE % EETEET % fEpr 
f^EfeE ERft | I 

[Ro TR 0 35017 ( 30)/72-f[o trEo 2(ii)] 


S.O. 2947,. — Whereas It appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Sukhdeodass Beheti and Company, 14, Nurmal 
Lohia Lane, Calcutta-7 hav e agreed that the provisions 
of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable 
to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act. the Cen- 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
lorce on the thirty first day of March, 1971. 

[No. S-35017(22)/72-PFJL] 

ETo ETo 2947.-EE: %EfjR REETZ Et Ef TRIE jffElf 
fE RER REVERE EPtEtfiVE EREt, 1 4, : J T EE EtfeET *TE 
EE E r f I, 7 ETRE ETTEE R RR2T fEEtEE RVz E^ErfrEt 
Et EEREET W EtE ET R^RE Et E^ t fE E^Elft RfRtE 
fEfsufkfTPR tfEE fM>J EfSTfEER, 1952 ( 1952ET19) 

% REER TEE FETRE Et RRJ fEE EFt Elff^ ; 

RR:, RE, TEE RfEfEER, Et EFT 1 Et TWPT ( 4) 
5RT REE EfTEEt ET REtE ERtT ^rr %vjtE R* r +I J RET 
EfaffiER % TRE^R TEE FEIRR E?T REE JPT EBJ EETt | I 


ES Rf^EET 1 9 7 1 % RTT % 3 1^ fEE Et R^E 
RRSft Eprift | 


[#o ttRo- 35017( 22)/72-fto rrqjo 2] 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29 1894 


[Part IT — 


4344 


S.O. 2948-- Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Chaturbhai Enterprise, 2, Gurudas Dutta Garden 
Lane, Caleutta-4 have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 ,(19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exorcise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Cen- 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of March, 1971. 

[No. S-35017 (21) /72-PF.II.] 

FToFIT° 2948- — TT: FTTYt H C+ I T fY Tf STTlT o'tdT 
| fr TTT TTCTTY ^TGITSTT, 2, TTTTT TFTT TIFT TT. 
FTTFTir-4 TTTF? F'TTTT 4 TWIT fTTtspp wk TTTTTTTTI 

fY t jtttt iiT ftt qr Tf tt ft t! | fFr fittitV TfFT f-rr^r 
srk f>tpt fuiT fYfr TTfafaTT, 1952 ( 1 9 5 2 ft 19) % 

TWI TFT FFflT Ft NET, fFTf TTT Frffrr ; 

m-., m, tft 5rfsrf>m fY stto 1 fY tttri ( 4 ) 
era ttft t^tti ft tM tpt ^ %-?tYt ttftf: ttt Tfa- 

pTTT % TTTTT TFT WET Ft TTfSHT HTT FTTf f I 


Fi? Flfsr^TTT 1971 %■ TT# % 3 if fcT Fit 5TFT |f 
TTflY TPTfT I 

[To trTo-3801 7( 2 1 )/72 Tto 2] 


S.O. 2949.-— Whereas It appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Grace Sanitary and Marble Company, 2 
Brabourne, Road, C.alcutta-1 have agreed that the pro- 
visions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made 
applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Cen- 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come Into 
force on the first day of September, 1971. 

[No. S-35017/31/72-FF.1L] 


FT o TTo 2 94 9, — FT: YeTTYT TWIT fY TT tpfVT 
fYdT t fY TTT Yt TfTTfr tc? TPTT , 2, WTTT TIT, 
FFTFuiTT- 1 Tim FTTTT T TWT fTTlTT tYt FTTFTrTrff 

apV TfThTT ?T TTT tt rr^TT fY t€ ?, fY FT? THY 'TfY’W fTpH 

TV fT/T ITT fTfT srfTfTTT, 1952 ( 1952 FT 19) 

% TPPT TFT Tim Fit NTT FIT TTd ; 


FIT:, 5TT, TFT srfttfTTT fY TRf 1 TITRl ( 4) TTG 
TTH TfFTTt FT TtffT FPlY FiEftT TTFTT TFT FtM-EFT 
% TT3RT TFT PIFT Fit THT FiTTt | I 

Tf TfKTfTTT 1 9 7 1 % fTtWT % 5TTT fTT Fit T^FT f £ 
TWl TTTTt | 

[To ITTo 35C17( 3l)/72-Tto TTrio 2] 


S.O. 2950. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that tpe employer and the majority of the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Bichitra, 65 G, T. Road, (South) Howrah, have 
agreed that the provisions of Hie Employees’ Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-seetion (4) of section 1 of the said Act. the Cen- 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come Into 
force on the first day of September, 1971, 

[No. S-35017 (32) /72-PF.II. ] 


FTo TTo 2 9 5 0* — FT: YmYT TTFTT Fit TT TTtT ftTT 
| fY TTT fTfTTI, 65-Tlo jYo (TTTT) fTTfl T 1W 
FTTTT Ft TR3 fTTlTFT tYi TTTlfcfi Fit TfTWT TT TTT 
'FT TfPTT ft nf | Pf FiTTRl TfkT MY YVr FTrr TTT 
MY ufTfTTT, 1952 ( 1.952 FT 19) % TTTST TFT 
WET fY TIT fY? TFT TTf^ ] 

TT^TTTFTTftlfYTTFitTTFT 1 Fit TFTTTI ( 4) STM 
TFT TfFTTt FT 5TTTT FITT g U ^rFjtT TTFTT TFT TfuffiTT 
% TTFcl TFT PFTTT Fit TTfTKr TTT % I 

Tq TfT'JFTT 1971 % fTTr'FT % TFT fTT Fit TJT 
ft TTsft TTT*ft I 

(To TT a 3501 7(32)/72-ifto ITtro 2 ) 


S-O. 2951. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as the 
Messrs Everest Laminators, 41-Chowringhee Road, Cal- 
cutta-16 and Its factory at Madhymagrant, District 24, 
Parganas, West Bengal have agreed that the provisions 
of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable 
to the said establishment; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1_of the said Act, the Cen- 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of tb" 
said Act to the paid establishment. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASV1NA 29, 1894 


Sec. 3(ii)j 


4345 


This notification shall be doomed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day ot May, 1972. 

'[No. S. 35017 (34) / 72-PF. 11(1).] 


2 9 5 1-- — fifi:, fififffi fiF+ITTtT? fififfi fTfiT 
£ ffi A fifi AffiftfA, 4 ft I rAf Ar, 1 6 

filfifiRfimfiV.fiTEfitmfi.ffifir 24 -fiTfifir, fiflfifit fifilfi 
Afifi%fii wrA fi Brg-.-g' fTtfiTT ?rfa fiAfirfreff tA 
fiffiMT Sfifilfi fifi fif fifi fit fi£ f, ffi fififi rft fiffiCfiffiffi 
fik 9'3FT ffiffi fiffifafifi, 1952 ( 1952 fir 1 9 ) % 
RTfifi RfiT Rfiqfi fit fiF{ ffiU fiTfi fiTffrr | 

5Tff:,STir, RfiTfifaffififi fiffiRT 1 4?! RTJRT ( 4) 3RI 
5TRT wffidfit fiT fifitfi fififi gti fiFJlfi fififiR fififi STfaffififi 
% fififil fififi FfiTTT FT nfifiTRr 414 fififit % I 

4$ fifagfifiT 1972 fit fit fi f4fi fit fififi 

?tfit I 

[fio ttfi o-35017(34) ° t^fio 2(i) J 


S.O. 2952. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
first proviso to section (J of the Employees’ Provi- 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), the Central Government, after making necessary 
enquiry into the matter, hereby specifies with effect, 
irom the 31st May, 1972, the establishment known as 
Messrs Everest Laminators. 41-Chowringhee Road, Cal- 
cutta-1 (i and its factory at Madhymagram, District 24, 
Parganas, West Bengal lor the purposes of the said 
proviso. 

[No, S.35017(34)/72-PF.II(ii).j 

4fi 0 WTi 195 2. — fifififiT fififiR fififiR^ fiffitfi ffiffi 
ififfi f jr*T fair ffiffi fiffiffififi, 1952 ( 1 952 fifi 19) fif 
SIR! 6 % fififi fifiRJfi TRI fififi fiffififif fir fifitfi fififi fir 
fifig fwr A fiTfiWfi fiffi fizA % qfifiPT 31 fit 1972 fi 
ITfifiR %ffifiSfi 4 1-fiffifit it?, fifififiT - 1 6 fiTfifi TfiTRfi 
wl t fiVfifiUTfi. ffifiT- 2 4-fifififiT fif^fifit fifiTfi fi RR% fi I ifiTfi 
fit trfifiSRr fififi fifi^fi fi fifitfifif % ffiU ffifuffitfi fifidf | | 


[fiotrrro 35017(34)/72-qIo ttfio 2 (ii)] 


S-O, 2953. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment known ns 
Messrs Optique India, 1144, Sadashiv^Peth, Poona-30 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Pro- 
vident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 
of 1952), should be made applicable to the said esta- 
blishment; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Cen- 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of November, 1970. 

[No. S. 35O18(10)/72-PF.II.] 

fiTo fiTo 2 95 3- — fifi: 4'xtfi fififiR fit fit] fiiffd 
fffiT | ffi fififi smfAfi S,ftfiT, 1 144, fifirffifi As gfiT-30 
fiTfifi FfiTfifi fi fiRfifi ffifitfifi sftfi fififilfvqf fit fif fififi! 
?fi filfi fifi fiffifi f t fif | ffi fififiTft fiffifi ffiffi fitfi fififfi 
fififi ffiftJ fiffiffififi 1952 (l952 fiT 19) fififififi fififi 
fifiififi fit vn^ffitr fiiA fii fyfi ; 

Nfi-, m, fififi nffifdfifi fit TRr 1 fit tetri ( 4 ) 
SfiRI fifirfi fiffififif fiT fifitfi fififi fir fiyfilg fififiR fisffi 
fiffiffififi % fififi fi fififi FfiTfifi fiT hfififilfil fifii£ fiRfif I I 

fif fiffi^fifil 197 0 % fifiFiR At fififi ffifi fid fifiefi 
$£ Hfisfr fiTTfit 1 

[fifo tTfio 35018 (l 9 )/ 72 -fito fFfiio 2 ] 

S.O. 2954. — Whereas it appears to the Central. Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the em- 
ployees 1 in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Laxmi Flour Mills, Factory Shamnoor Road, 
Devangere including its office at Mandipet, Devangere, 
Mysore State have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act. 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now, thei’efore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Cen- 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions f f the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of March, 1971. 

[No. S- 35019(87) /71-PF.II(i).] 

fifio tRo 2954. — fiff; (RfifR fiit fififfi 

filfil ^ ffi> fififif fiSfif TfiR ffiFfi, Wfif, ailfi^C ftfi, 
fifi fififi fifiT Tfififl fififfifi, fififiJR, fi^T fiTfifi 
RfiTfifi it fiFfijf ffi fiffifi fifffi fififilffifif fit fiffilsfi T^fi fififi 
qfi fiffid gr fif | fp fififiRt fiffi-fi ffifsr tfffi fifiFfi fififi 
ffifsififaffififi, 195 2 ( 195 2 fir 19 ) %fififitrfififfRITfifi 
fit fir^ffifi firfi firf^n; ; 

5Tfi:, ?Tfi, fififi fifffffififi fit NRT 1 fit fififiRT ( 4) 

IRT fififi fiffififit fiT fifitfi fifi^ fir RTT7R fififi 

fiftrffififi % fiTfifi fififi fit it figgirr fififi fiTfif 1 1 

fif 1971 % fififi ffifififtfifififi 

fififif fiTTTfif I 

[fio TTfio-35019(87)/71-fifo 2 (i)] 



THE G AZE TTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21. 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Fart II— 


4346 

8.0, 2955.— In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the first proviso to section G of the Employees’ Provi- 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (10 of 
1952), the Central Government, after making necessary 
enquiry into the matter, hereby specifies with effect 
from the 1st March, 1971 the establishment known as 
Messrs Laxami Flour Mills, Factory Shawnoor Road, 
Devangere including its office at Mandipet, Devangere 
Mysore State for the purposes of the said proviso. 

[No. S.35019(87)/71-PF.II(ii).J 


®|TT 0 WT 0 2 9 5 5. — 4T44T qRRTd 4f4R ffiftl 

1952 ( 1 9 5 2 1 9 ) qrY 

srm 6 % sm am sTTfi frfqffiTT 44 SPTT4 44ft 

5^,44? 1 rdt, 1971 

% NffTt ffiTfrr fq-T, ’irmi ft?, ffiqr 

^TPJT R-ft fc, t4 44T, *4 Z fiTffiF FRETfi 4T> 

444 % Tcrmt % ffcr TTdf | I 

[Ro tTRo- 35019 ( 87 ) / 71 -TVo Ptfio 2 (ii)] 


tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Aci to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of January, 1972. 

[No. S.35019 (18) /72-PF.1I.] 

44° RT° 22 5 6. — 44: %'ftq 47444 44 4? Rcftcf 
fFTT |fTRRT 4 r 4T4544 fTlTR m 4, 40/l, ^?l?44fl4, 
43T4- 1 4 nPPF *4144 If ffiRtspE tftT RRRTffff ft 

•ipw ?4 *T4 qr 4f44 4$ £ f% qnfmft Rfqnr fffsr 

sftr tctt q?K Mu srfsrf-rqR, 1952 (195244 19) 

% 4444 444 7*1 1 'H 4ft WPf, f4T[ 4T% RTff? ,‘ 

44:, SR, 444 4ftrf444 4^ OTTT 1 4?t 444141 ( 4) 
UTi sren Rrfqrmf tt twin qmf g? qrr-frq rttk 444 
sqferfnffiq % 4444 444 *«TTq4 ft 4443374 tttf TTqt 1 1 

4?WftrgN4l 19 72 4^44qd%444ft4 47t JT^TT 
44 wl 74441 1 

[40 tr 4 o -35019 ( 18 )/ 72 -qto 4470 2] 


S.O. 2956. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and Die majority of the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Venkateswara Iron Works, 40/1, Whites Road, 
Madras-14 have agreed that the provisions of the Em- 
ployees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 

the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred, 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Cen- 


S.O. 2957. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 73F of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 
(34 of 1948), the Central Government, having regard to 
the location of the factories specified in column (4) of 
the Schedule hereto annexed in areas specified in 
column (3) of the said Schedule in the State of Bihar 
in which the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the 
said Act are not in force, hereby exempts the said 
factories from the payment of employer’s special 
contribution leviable under Cnapter VA of the said 
Act for a period of one year from the date t* 
publication of this notification in the Official Gazette or 
until the enforcement of provisions of Chapter V of 
the said Act l n those areas, whichever is earlier. 



Sec. 3(ii)J 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVTNA 29, 1894 4347 


Schedule frR 6TR RT BTWB RT RTR 

— TT R(R RTR 

SI. Name of Name of Area Namo of the factory 

No. District 


(i) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) (4) 


1 . Dhanbad . Mohuda. 


a. SanthalPar- Madhupur. 
gnna. 


3 . Gaya . Tehta 


. 4 , Shahabad . Arrah. 


42-3398-53 

Messrs Jai Steel In- 
dustry Mohuda 
More, P. O. Mohuda 
Dhanbad. 

42-2783 

McssrsM.L. Bose & 
Co., (Pvt.) Ltd., At 
and P.O. Madhupur, 
Santhal Pargana. 

42-2394-43 r 

Messrs Sinha and 
Sons, Tehta Rail- 
way Station, P. G. 
Line, Gaya. 

42-2272-43 

Messrs Shah Tiles 
Nawada Arrah, Sha- 
habad. 


[No. F. S-38oi4(24)/72-HIl 

TT® RT® 295 7 — TRRTTf TT7R BlRT RfirfRTR, 
1948 ( 1948 TT 34) TV STITT 7 3R gRT TRET RtfifWf 
TT RRTR TRf ^ TrIT RTTTT ^RR RTTRig % 

ERpR ( 4) R fdfdfTtT TRTTTf Tf, RRR RR^Rt % 4RcR 
( 3) R fRfRF%'T fRRTT TT^R % Rjf if, f^T W 
STfafRTR % RRTPT 4 Tfl 5 % T-KRT R^ET Rjff f , STRfpqfR 
Tt ERTR R ijR, TRR TTWEf Rtf, TBR RftrfRRR % RgqTR 
5-T % RRfR faRNEFTf % fTWR RfRRTT % RTTR 

R, ^R RfR^Rbl T TURRitR TTRTR R RTTNR R?t RlffN 
it RR Rif RRftT T fRct RT RR RT % fRC[ ji ^ TT BRR 
trfkfRRR%Rl£TrR 5 % WH 3R STlfi if RfR Rgf^f RTR, 
3ft iff R?% $t, IT^TTT grf | | 

R^Tt 


TRR® fR%TT WT RT TRTariR TT BTR 
RTR RIR 


1. srRRTR RtfBI 42—3 3 98—53 

RRR RR 4il 4f , 4-3 

Rt^TTRR, RTTRy R|^TT ) 

RRRK I 

RRTR RJJR7; 42-2783 
RRTRT RRlf I[Ro itr-® sftR rriry 


RTR-ff (rTTRT) fpffRTR, 

RR5T Rk TITRT R^JT, 

ifNIR TGTBT 

3. BRT BfTBT 42-2394-43 

t?Rlf tTor RfR, SfcT 

T^NB, tfto 3ft o ETTTR, 
RTT I 

4, 'flT^TBTB 5(171 42-2272-43 

RRlf S1TBR, BRTBT, 5TRT 

RT^TBTB I 


[ReTfoiTRo 38014(24)/72-tfR®RT$°] 


S O, 2958. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 83 of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 
the Government of India In the Ministry of Labour, 
Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment) No. S O. 3675, dated the 7th August, 
(34 of 1948), and in continuation of the nolillcation of 
1971 the Central Government hereby exempts the pre 
17tb November, 1961 employees of the India Meteoro- 
logical Department Workshop at Poona from the opera- 
tion of the said Act except Chapter VA for a further 
period of one year with effect from the date of expiry 
of the period specified in the said notification subject 
to the conditions specified in paragraph 2 below:' — 

2, (i) The aforesaid factory shall maintain a register 
showing the names and designations of the employees; 
and 

(li) that, notwithstanding this exemption, the em- 
ployees shall continue to receive such benefits under 
the said Act to which they might have qualified on the 
basis of contributions paid before the dates of exemp- 
tion. 


[No. E\ S-380 1 7 (00) /72-HI.] 

BIT® RT® 2 958. — TRRRf W aftRT RfafBRR, 
1948 ( 1 948 RT 34) R?f SHT7T 88 TRT RRT NfRRTf 
RT STRtR BTTBf JTT *fk RRR RCtd'i % NR, TiRRlT sftT 
JBBfR RRTEfR (NR wft fRrRR: fBRTR) Rif RfSEgm 
^0 RT® RT® 3675, RRfa 7RRER, 19 71 Rif, %EjffT 
RTBTT gRT f«TR Bf Rfeff-TRfifRTR fyqR'RB 

B^BITT % 1 7 BRWE, 19 61 % % RTRRTfRTf Bit, RERTR 

5-RT % fRBTR RBR RftlfBTR % RTRB if, TBR RfST^BBT 
Bit BTTfRfR % RBRTB Bfr RTtYbT If RT RR Tf RBffiT 
% fRR fBRBfrfBrR 'kr 2 R 1 ' fBfBfTT Niff % RiflB -REf 
fR, BBT | : — 


2. (i) ^BffBR BTTTrBl RT ifRlTT T#TT fTRR 
BRfTTfRRf % BIR Rh TRBTR ^Rf ; NTT 


2 . 



434§ THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 [Part II— 


(ii) ^ be % k% gq %t, 4 % 4 Te> B 4 T srfufa w 
% Wf%i 4 Ijf 4 HTq ST I c cl 4 >"E% E ^4 f% 4 % 
f%q t be 4 % Ffffni % %CT Sff%4T4T % 
’trite te srftr gq gf i 

[%o94oq4o 38017( 60)/72-q^o¥rrfo] 


S.O. 2959. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
flection 73F of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 
(34 of 1948), and in cc. ntinuaci on of the notification of 
the Government of India in 1116 Ministry of Labour 
and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Em- 
ployment) No. S.O. 3670 dated the 7th August, 1971 the 
Central Government having regard to the location of 
the Government Photo Registry, Poona, in an area in 
which the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the said 
Act are in force, hereby exempts the said Photo Registry 
from the payment of the employer’s special contribu- 
tion leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act for a 
further period of one year with effect from the 11th 
August, 1972 upto and inclusive of the 10th August, 
1973. 


[No. F. S. 38017/62/72-1II.1 


44o *4° 2959 — W4TE% TCTT WfOTWR, 1948 
( 194844 34) 4%RrET 73-4 JUT CTrf Ef4T4T44 44r4 
«fTE% f q *flT WET TT44E % *JPT Sfk >344?T klTW (WT^ 
!qkE%wrcfqw4) 4%k%g4rr%o 440S1T0 3670tte%t • 
7 WET, 1971%iWR%^rq'BTTCTT^^^Tf^' ) 
55? 4%q% 44 %, f%T% 444 ’Tfkrwr % vmn 4 5 

% cttt t^et f, wfE4f% 44 rtpt % eut gq 44T 43 et 

4% 444 4f4f~[44 % ^rtET 54T % W%T 444sqift4 
faTTSIT % fWI *rf44T4 % %4T4 % 1 1 WET, 1 972 4 
10 WET, 1 9 7 3 44 f%ET% 4g fqq 4% ErfarfETT j|, 44 Slk 

4% 4% Tnwrftr % f%q qT^CT be £ i 

[do Tito qR-o 38017(62)/72— qr° snf°] 


S.O. 2960 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 73F of the Employees’ Stale Insurance Act, 1948 
(34 of 1948), and in continual on of the notification ut 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, 
and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employ- 
ment) No. S.O. 3678, dated the 7th August, 1971, the 
Central Government having regard to the location of 
the factory, namely 1 , Andhra University Press, Waltair, 
in an area in which the provisions of Chapters IV and 
V of the said Act are in force, hereby exempts the said 
press from the payment of the employer’s special con- 
tribution Leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act 
for a further period of one year with effect from the 
10th July, 1972 upto and inclusive of the 9th July, 1973. 

[No. F. S-J80 17(46)/ 72-HI. 1 


44° Wo 2 960 — ET44 4%TT 'wfafdW, 
1948 ( 1948 44 3 4) 4% 9TET 734 5TET TO 4rf4T4f 
44 44%T 4fE% gq *k 4TET TE44E % W 5k Tq4?T 


%4TU4 (44 Slk 474414 f%4T4) 4% qfvqWi %o 440 
Tr° 3678 414^4 7 WET, 1 9 7 1 % 414 % 444*4 44444 
mzj qf%4f%E% sf 4, 4Tck 44441 444741% 4% $4% if, 
tddif W 4f%f444 % 4E4T4 4 *k 5 % 4444 44ri | 
WfkrfT 44 S41T % CT4 gq 444 4 4 4% 44T WfvfWI % 
STE4T4 54 % W%4 Tqifgkq f%4M4> % fWTT wfVpW % 
WT4% 10 1972 % 9 ^EITf, 1 973 447 faET% 4? 

fcn Wf 4fF4fu4 |, q4T wk 4% 4% 44Enf4fu % f%q 4444- 
4TET BE fcff | | 

[%o q?fo 38017(46)/72-q4° Wf°] 


S.O. 2961, — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 73F of the Employees’ Slate Insurance Act, 1948 
(34 of 1948), and in continuation of the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour 
and Rehabilitation (Department () f Labour and Employ- 
ment) No. S.O. 3362, dated the 18th August, 1971 the 
Central Government having regard to the location of 
the 220 K. V. Sub-Station Sahupuri, belonging to the 
Uttar Pradesh Electricity Board, in an area in which 
the provisions of Chapters IV and V ol the said Act 
are in force, hereby exempts the said Sub-Station 
from the payment 0 f the employer's special contribu- 
tion leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act for a 
further period of one year with effect from the 1st 
August, 1972 upto and inclusive of the 31st July, 1973. 

[No. F. S-38017 (49) /72-HI.] 


44o 4T° 2 961 — 43x417% ET34 klT wf%k%4, 
1948 ( 1948 44 34) 4% ERET 734 3TET 4<CT wfwf 
44 44>T 4ET gq 4k WET RE44E % *44 Sfk 
4-TR4 (<44 %k ELECT fW4) 41% 4f4q44T %o 44o 
4fo 3362, T’EVq 18 W?T, 1 9 7l % 4>4 % 

4E4TE 4ffT 4%W Ttg % 220 %o 4[o 44EJ44 
ETTfiCV Tl’ q%t WT %, f%ET% '34x1 ?rf%f%W % ¥fK4T4 
4 5 $ T4WJ 4fU WfE4f% 4% 54FT % E4T% gq 

44T 44-EEE4 4% T4cf Rf%f%44 % W4I4 54T % Wf4 
rkkT4i % fWT 4f%4T4 % %4T4 % 1 WET, 
197 2% 31 ^Trf 1973 T4T f%R% 4g f%4 4% Elfkf%ET 
I, q4? %k 44 4% 44UT4f4 % f%rq qTTSTET BE 4k | I 

[%o qRo 38017(49)/72-q4° 4nt°J 


S.O, 2962. —In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 73F of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 
(34 of 1948), and m continuation of the roliflcaiion of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, 
Efnployment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment) No. S.O. 1141 dated the 22nd Febru- 
ary, 1971 the Central Government, having regal d to 
the location of the factories specified in column (4) of 
the Schedule hereto annexed i n areas specified In 
column (3) of the said Schedule in the Stale of Maha- 
rashtra in which the provisions of Chapters IV and V 
of the said Act are not in force, hereby exempts the 
said factories from the payment of employer’s special 



4349 


Sec, )(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : 


contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said 
Act fo r a further period of one year with effect from 
the date of expiry of the period specified in the said 
notification or until the enforcement of provisions of 

Chapter V of the said Act in those areas, whichever is 
earlier. 

SCHumn.n 


SI. 

No. 

(i) 

Nome of 
District. 

(2) 

Name of area' 

(3) 

Name of the factory 

(4) 

I. 

Kolaba 

Pen 

Messrs Prabhat Kala 




Alandir. 

2j 

Kolaba 

R,oha. 

Messrs Premier Paper 




Mills, Limited. 


[No. F. S.38017 /:j9/72-HI.l 


Wo STTo 2962 — ■VEERI TRq qtET qfsrkqE, 1948 
( 1 948 W 34) kERT 7 3E gRT SRrT WfWT f W EElE 

qk ^tt sffr vrnrf ipw % qq , eYeer qk jqqfq 

EwfME (qq qk TTEEIT kEET), # qflEjqqT Eo 

Wo ?TTo 1 141 ERkT 22Wq7Y, 1 971 % WE *T kiJYq 

fRWT SHE EErqq W'T W Wt % WW ( 4) E kkkR 
wwtbY qY wr q-j^qY % ere ( 3) q kkkR qm- 
ERE %■ TTW skY ft, fwww W qfakqq % qsqjq 
4 qk 5 % wre* srfer Eiff $ , qqfrqfH qiY sete ir 773% 
gtT w W wft EE 3TT qfqfqqH % EKER 547 % qqkr 
WJTRfY' 1 ' kqYqq % k-EE qpqqrq % ERE if, WE wfsr- 
pT if kkku qqfc qY HBTkf qY HRYq ft "q qft 
qY qqfft % farr El HE H4T Yi fqq 3|H W fq OT qfij- 
ffiEH % ERIE 5 % ERR EH ftR ii STEW qqf fff 

qk, ofr ftY wft <tt, TTq^jKr wz kY I 1 

qqfto fqftw fJEqr qRErftWHTq 

HIE HIE 

(l) (2) (3) (4) 

1. qHT4 T "Ye kft EE id qqi q(k< 

2. qYqiET <ki flHft sfYlftw Ye 1 Ptvti, kfft- 


[fto Wo EfTo-38017( 3 9)/7 2-^o!TTfo] 


S.O. 2963. — Whereas the Central Government Is 
satisfied that the employees of the Government of 
India Press, Koralty, Trlchur District (Kerala State) 
belonging to the Government o 1 India are otherwise in 
receipt of benefits substantially similar to the benefits 
provided under the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 
1946 (34 of 1948). 


OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASV1NA 29, 1894 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 90 of the said Act and in continuation of the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment) No, S.O. 3914, dated the 18th Septem- 
ber. 1971, the Central Government, after consultation 
with the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation, 
hereby exempts the above mentioned factory from all 
the provisions of the said Act for a further period of 
one year with effect from the 6th July, 1972 upto and 
inclusive of the 5th July, 1973. 

[No. F. 3-38017(45) /72-HI] 

wo nio 2963 — eh; %kk htwt qY Ef kYH 

qtfTT I k ERE +HW< % ERE HEWE tfWTMd, WkiV 

fwjr fqqr (%ee ere) %■ eeweY qft, wrqrfr ere 

EYqTqfgfEHq, 1948 ( 1948 W 34) % WeftW ^-^ffsTcf 

qqfwi ebY ere: qqfwRr et-h | i 

EH-’, EE, WE qfftkEH k ERT 9 0 sra HEE 

qfwqf w eeYe wk fnr qk ere hewe % spt qk 
^mTh (qq ql 7 kEER fEETH) 4>Y qfsT^d I 

Eo 3914 017^ 1 8 fEeHXR, 1971 % WI ETWT 
q'EWRt' 7TW qWr fEEE % RTE»t 4* <d % T^dl'd, iTd^- 

qm ete qjf'tiMi w qfqfqqE %■ qqifq ^ 6 Tprrf, 

1972 ^ 5 1973 EW fEE^T qf fqq tff EfFE- 

f^TE t, 1(47 Ek qq qqfq |r fw( ^=ft % \ 

[E° Wo i(E-38017(45)/72-Eqo-mfo] 


S.O, 2964. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 87 of the Employees’ Stat e Insurance Act. 1948 
(34 cf 1948) and in continuation of the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour 
and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Em- 
ployment) No- S.O. 497, dated the 25th January, 1972 
the Central Government hereby exempts the Damodar 
Valley Corporation sub-station, Howrah, from all the 
provisions of the said Act for a further period of one 
year wiffi effect from the date of expiry of the period 
specifier, in the said notification. 

[No. F. S.38017/03/72 HI ] 

Wo ETo 2964 — wklk TWE eYet qfqfqEE, 
1948 ( 1948 W 34) # ERT 8 7 ERT ERf qfqEqf 
W SRIE dfcY fn; qY7 E1W E4TR % EE qk jqqfE E?ET- 
qq (ee ql^: tteefc fqEiq) w qrq^qqr Eo wo qTo 

4 97 Er7t'l' 25 qqqfY, 19 72 % ^E E %7 sYe EEFR 

rrqwn;r k qrE'Rc qqr wqkqq ee-rwe zteet Et 
3H qfijfEEE % EEt ETREl E WE qk^EET E fqfq- 
Ter qqk W EElkq W ElflE E nrqr kl qk qqfq 
% fq ® T kk % i 

£Eo wo PE-3801 7(63)/72-T(qo wfoj 



4350 


[Part II— - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


S.O. 2965 -In exercise of the powers conferred by 

section 73F of the Employees' State Insurance Act, 1948 
(84 of 1948), and in continuation of the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and 
Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employ- 
ment) No. S.O, 2771 dated the 5th July, 1971 the 
Central Government having regard to the location of 
the factory, namely, Drainage Main Pumping Station, 
Ramnad Road, Madurai belonging to the Madurai 
Municipality, in an area In which the provisions of 
Chapters IV and V of the said Act are in force, hereby 
exempts the said factory from the payment of tba 
employer’s special contribution leviable under Chapter 
VA of the said Act for a further period of one year 
with effect from the 31st May, 1972 upto and inclusive 
of the 30th May, 1973, 


[No. F. 3817/42/72-HI.] 

tto mo 2 96 5 — Tim t\tt srfafwr, 
1948 ( 1948 m 34 ) # STTI 7 3 T 3 TTT TO TfTWT 

tt srrtr |tt ttw twit %■ w tVt ^liTt m- 

w (mr rntr frwt frmr) srfm[WT to m mo 
2771 mfter 5 1971 % mi Jr twit 

% f^r tt qfm Ttmr, vtttt 
ftr, tttt mrm% % m *r, fwJr tw srfr- 
frw mmr 4 mlr 5 % ttwt ft, mrfwfa Tt 
mr hr mrit fir th mrmft Tt ttt wfatwr % twit 
5 t % mtrtr TWiwtT frrtw % fmk mfmmr % twt 

TT 31 Tf, 1972 T 30 Tf, 1973 W fwJr W fw '•ft 
RfmfmT ft, put sfk mf 4 ft mTrfft ffttr tT^jirr 
ftft ft i 

[To TTo mi- 38017 ( 42 )/ 72 -^omfo] 


S.O. 2966. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 73F of the employees’ State Insurance Act., 1948 
(.34 of 1948), and In contribution of the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour 
and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employ- 
ment) No, S.O, 5306 dated the 4th November, 1971 the 
Central Government, having regard to the location of 
the factories specified in column (4) of the Schedule 
hereto annexed in areas specified in column (3) of the 
said Schedule in the State of West Bengal in which 
the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the said Act 
are not in force hereby exempts the said factories from 
the payment of employers’ special contribution leviable 
under Chapter VA of the said Act for a further period 
of one year from the date of expiry of the period 
specified in the said notification or until the enforce- 
ment of provisions of Chapter V of the said Act in 
those areas, whichever is earlier. 

Schedule 


Sh Name of Namcofatca Name of the Factory 

No. District 


(0 ( 2 ) (3) (4) 


1. Rurdwan , Kalna (1) M/s. Bapuji 

Powerloom and In- 
dustries Cooperative 
Society Limited. 


Si. 

No. 

Name of District Name of ar; 

a Name of Factory 

0) 

(2) 

( 3 ) 

( 4 ) 




(l) M/s. KalnaPow- 
crloom Cooperative 
Union Limited. 



Guskara 

M/s. Ouskara Oil 
Mill8’ , atul Company, 



Memari 

M/b. C. P. Casting 
Go-operation. 11‘7 * ^ 

2. 

Hooghly 

. Dasghora. 

, Mts.Dasghora Hand- 
made Paper Centre 

3 - 

Jalpaiguri 

. F.htiasal 

, (i) M/s. Mooljee Imn 

and Steel Industries. 
(2) M/s. Fertrazzinis, 

4 - 

Nadia. 

Taherpur. 

M/s. Taherpur Power- 
loom No. 2 Coopera- 
tive Society Limi- 
ted) R.I.C. Produc- 
tion Centre. 

5 . 

Paruiia. 

. Purilia. 

, (1) M/s. Mirjamull 

Ramesh w arlal Alu- 
minium Factory. 



Jhalda 

(1) M/s. Madras Shcl- 
lace Factory. 

(2) M/s, Shree Gopal 
Shellace Factory. 



RangadLn 

, M/s, GiriRaj Agar- 
walia. 




[No. F. S. 38017/6 t/72-HI] 


mo m° 

2 96 6 : — TTT 1 ft 

rpjT TlTT Tfrfrw, 


1948 ( 1948 m 34) 4?T WlTl 7 3T Si TT vilVlft 

m mftr wft ft 4" mfr mm twit %■ mr jwftr 

T TTTT («TT 5fk TtWIT fTTFl) Tt TftFJTTT T° mo 
mo 5306, Tlffa 4 TTRTT 1971 % fiT ft %??tT 
twit wft ttpw mt/jftt % w*r (4) Jr fftfftfftT 
mrmft 4ft, m mpj’ft % mw (3) ft fftfftfe 
ftftmfr ftm tf?t ftr t*t &ff Jr, Pwft ttt tWttt 
% mmr 4 ftr 5 % ?wr mpr mff ft, mrfwfft 4ft 
mw it wft fft, ttt ira rft 4ft, 3 m srftjfrw % 
mwir 5 ¥ I rnfftr T^Tfuftr frfttmift % fmfr mFornr 

% TTFT ft, '3TT TlWTTT if Id fa fa M mrfft % TWIT 
4ft di Cl ‘a ft RT ft t 9 4 4ft TTfft % fftft 4T TT T47 

% fftft 5T W WT mftrfdW % ¥1ETTT 5 % TTWT W 
il 'TfrT TftlT ftt mrT, tTt Tt ftl, ir^dlTT 

ft i 



Sec. 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDTA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4351 


ot^tY 

FPT 

fYY FT TTT 

TT FT TIT 

FTTTrY FT TTT 

To 




(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 


1 FFFFT FOTT (l)"TTT Fl^Yt 

*\ N O * \ . 

^WTTtl^ ^TRTT- 
I^t, MOTT I 
(2) TOT FOTT 
FTF7TT Ylyll- 
Yf?F tItTF fYfr- 

ZZ I 


OTFTRT 

<9 

TOT OTFTTT TITT 

Ynrt 

fTT" YR FOTTt 


TOTTto tfto FrfPOT 


FTP-fl'kiT I 


2 fTTt 

FT Ft PI 

( 1 ) TOT FOTtTT 


fiYr Ytt Ytt 

3 OTTOTFft . 

IFifiTITT 

( 1 ) TOT TTTt 



TTTOT I<IF PTtr 


TPOTiTT 

( 2 ) tot YrrfYfOT 


4 FTfOT , TTffTJF: TOT TlffTJF: TTFT- 

TT T° 2 Ylt-IIF- 
YfFF TtTTIFt fYfr- 

zz, ttto ?rrfo 
Tto tflsFTT 
OTR | 

5 'pfOTT . FlfOT! ( 1 ) TOT fTT?OT 

7tY?FT 'H Id IT- 
FfTfOTT wfT I 


TTTf T ( 1 ) ROT T3TT 

FFTTFI '+>'+«!. -Cl I 

( 2) TOT sft TtTTT 
WTTFT YFTFt | 


OTlfOTT TOT frfT TTT OT- 
FTTI I 


S.O. 2967 — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 73F of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 
(34 of 1948), and m continuation of the notification of 
the Government of In ’ia in the Min Try f ) =bour, 
Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
end Emj io.'imr.t) No. S.O. 5324 dated the I2fh Novem- 
ber. 1971 the Central Government having eg-. id to the 
In ation of the factories specified in col' m (4; of the 
Schedule hereto annexed in areas ^per fi ’ ii column 
(3) of the said Schedule in the State of West Bengal 
in which the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the 
said Act ara r ot in force, hereby exempts the sai 3 
factories from the payment of employer's spetml 
contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said 
Act for a further period of one year from the date of 
expiry of the period specified in the said notificalmn 
or until the enforcement of provisions of Chapter V of 
the said Act in those areas, whichever is earlier. 

Schedule 


SI. 

No. 

Name of 
District 

Name of Area 

Name of the factory 

(I) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

1. Malda 

. Khejuriaghat . 

Malda. 

x. Messrs. Temporary 
Crushing Screening 
and Batching Plant. 
Messrs. Kalindri Fac- 
tory. 


[No. F. S. 38017/64/72-HI] 


FT° TT° 2967 : — FiTFRtOTF FtTT TfYfOTTT, 
1948 ( 1 948 FT 34 ) F?t STTCI 73 T FRI TFT TfFTFt 
FT TOT FlfY |F tYp TTOT TRFTR % TT, TTTTIR YtR 
TTFTT TTTTF (TT tYp RtTTlR fY'TFT ) Fit FTfr^FOT 
To FTo TTo 5324 , TRYt 12 TOTTR 1971 Y FIT 
if Y?FtT TRFTT ITT ROTTR OT^Tt Y POTT (4) T 
firTfr^ TROTT Yt, TFT TOTJTt % POTT ( 3 ) T flfTfOTI 
q-fOTTt FTTT OTT % IT TTt T, fYOT TFT tYfFtOT 

Y TSTTT 4 TR 5 Y TOTOT TFT Tff f, TFfPFfT Yt SOT 
Jr R?Y |Y, TFT FRTlY Yt, TFT TfYfTTT Y TSOT 5 -FI 

Y TTtT TFTf YtF fTTYTYf Y fFTF TfTOT Y TOT Y, 
TFT TfT$TTT T fFfTfOT OTfST Y TFTFT Yt TrYt 

Y IT TK FT Yt TFfY Y fYY TI TF TT Y fYY TF TT 
TFT TpTpTTT Y TSOT 5 Y TTOT 5 J TT OTt T TFT 

c 

Tff ft TTT, Yt Tt Tf Y ft, ITFOTI YYt | I 


totjtY 

F>T 

To 

fYY FT TTT 

TT FTFTT 

FTPTTT FT TTT 

( 1 ) 

( 2 ) 

( 3 ) 

( 4 ) 


1 TTTFI . TTfTTrFTT 1 . TOT OTTtYYt 

tFYt pYtfTTI^T 
FfOTT TTiT I 


TTTFI TOT FTfOTSt TFTPt I 


[To ITo 38017 ^ 6 §)/ 72 -ITo TTfo] 


[To FTo ttto 38017 ( 64 )/ 72 -ITo TTf °] 


[Part II — 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4353 


8.0. 2968. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 73 F of the Employees’ State Insurance Act 
1048 (34 of 1648), the Central Government havmg 
regard to the location of the Vishwn Bharnti Spinning 
and Weaving Co-operative Society Limited, Kavad 
Village, Post Angaon, Taluka Bhiwandl District Thana 
In an area in which the provisions of Chapters IV and 
V of the sax,.; Act are in force, hereby exempts the said 
factory from Ibe payment ol the employer’s special 
contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said 
Act for a period of one year with effect from the date 
Of publication ol this notification in the Official Gazette. 

[No. F. 802 (48; /70 HI.] 

TT» IIT« 2 96 8 : — 7 FR #RT RfttfRRR, 
1938 ( 194 8 RT 34) ftt RFl 7 3R 5TTT RTR wfwff 
RR RRtR Rrrft|ft, RTRrn; fftTT RHRt fftrfRR Jtng 

## TtsrrrtftT RtRTRft, Mftt?, wr rtr, rttrt 
5TRRTR, RFR4T fftRP# fRNT RTRT ftl, JR #ftf it, fRRft 
R4R RfftfRRR ft RWR 4 R 5 ft RTTET RfR ft RR- 
fRRfR ftt SRlRft'Frft^ft, HRRTrwrft ftt, R4R srfftfRRR 
% RWTR 5R ft 9Crvf*FT TJUfFTfR fRRtRRR % fftftr Rfft- 
RTR % RRTR ft, ^JR ^rfRJRRT % HTRTtR H jjRR 
ft R+IKM # Rlftfar if JT RR ftt RRfft ft fftft JRJ4TTT 

ftft £ I 

[ft° RR° 602( 48)/70-hRo Rffo] 


S.O. 2969. —In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 73F of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 
(34 of 1948), and in continuation of the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour 
and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Emp- 
loyment) No. S.O, 3689, dated the 3rd September, 1971, 
the Central Government having regard to the location 
of the factories, known as (1) Jamalpur Drainage 
Pumping Station and (2) New Suburban Drainage 
Pumping Station belonging to the Ahmedahad Muni- 
cipal Corporation, Ahmedabad, in an area in which 
the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the said Act 
are in force, hereby exempts the said factories from 
the payment of the employer’s special contribution 
leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act for a 
further period of one year with effect from the 1st 
June, 1972 uptp and inclusive of the 31st May, 1973. 

[No, F. S. 38017/28/72-1 tl.J 

RRo STT° 2969 TRRRt TTjR RtRT RfftfRRR, 
1948 ( 1948 TT 34) Tt RPT 73R 5TH RRH wfRFRHr 
RTT RRIR 4PR |ft RV RFR 4RT ft NR, q^R 
ftRTRR (NR RF fttRRF fRRPr) ftf RfftjRRT RVTT 
RR o Ri o 3 689) R1 RlR 3 fRRl-SF, 1971 % TO ft FHd 
7F4RT R(?H«|t|K ^PdlRTT 4RTRTHtR RpIRTRT?, % 

( l) RRTRJJ RRT if^RR ^RR, ftk ( 2) fRRR fRR 
RfiRR F^RR, RTRT 'FFNIRT ftt ttft STRf ft, fRRft TTR 
StfafRfftR ft RSRTR 4 ftk 5 ft TTRRJ RRH ft RRWPf 
art SRpf Jr 7RTR if J, RRR RTFRERt RVT HRR RfRfRRR ft 
RPT(R 5T ft RRtR fRRTTT ft fRHT RpRTTR 

% RRET if 1 j[R, 1 9 7 2 ft 31 ft£, 1973 RT, fRRR 
m RlfRl Rt RfiRfRR f JT RI ftt R*k RRftt % faft 
Ud^aiM 75R ftff i I 

[fto TRo !TRe 3R017( 28)/72-XTRo Rlfo] 


S.O, 2970. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 73F of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1048 
(34 ot 1948), and in emtlnuati n of the notification of 
the Government of India in the late Ministry of Labour 
Employment and Rehabilitation (Department, of Labour 
and Employment) No. S.O. 1306, dated the 6th March, 
1971, the Central Government having regard to the 
location of the. factory specified In column (4) of the 
Schedule hat Go annexed in the area specified in 
column (3> of the said Schedule tn the Stale of Andhra 
Pradesh in which the provisions of Chapters IV und V 
of the said Act are not in force, hereby exempts the 
said factory from the payment, of employer's special 
contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said 
Act for a further period of ore year with effect from 
the date of expiry of the period specified in the said 
notification or until the enforcement of the provisions 
of Chapter V of the said Act in the said areas, whlch- 


ever 

is earlier. 

Schedule 


SI, 

No. 

Name of 
District 

Name of Area 

Name of tho factory. 

CD 

(2) 

C3) 

(4) 

r. 

War an gal 

Brahmanapally 

Messrs Sri Venkatas- 
wara Tile Works. 



[No. F. 

S, 38oi7/(37)/ 72 -HI] 


RR° RT° 2 9 70 : — TRRrft ETTR RTr[ RFsrfRRR, 
1948 ( 1 948 4R 34) 4ft STRT 73R 3TTT SRTT RffRiff 
RR RRfR TTft fft Rftc RKR RCfRT % RR, EtRRR 

sftr 'JR#! RRTRR (RR R^T fDrRR fftREl) 4ft RftJJRRT 
R o RR o Rf o 1306 Rnft^ - 6 Rpsf, 19 71% R1R ft 
(K+R lIRft JRIRS RR JRV % ^RFR (4) ft 
fftfRftfiR TRNTRf 4ft TFT RR JHT T TRFR ( 3) ft fftfRffttR 
RtSR R# RTR % jft W'Rf ft, fRRft RRR RftrfRRR % 
RiRTR 4 R’l'T 5 T TTRR Rf R R ( flr t, R#Rfft TT 
?RTTR ft Raft f J RRR RRRIlft aft RRR RfftfRRR % RSRTR 
5—47 ft RRtR RRRfqftR fftRlRR ft fftftR Rf*TRTR ft 
RRTR ft RTR RfTRRRT R fRfRf%R RRfR # RRlf'R dft 
ft tTRf Rif R# # Riftft ft fftft RT RR RT ft fftj 
RR RRT fft R4R RfftfRRR ft RSR1R 5 ft W3 RR Slftf 
ft RRfT R?ft fft Rift, Rt # Rffft ift, JR^aTH ^fV 

ft I 




TR 

R 

f# Tf RTR 

RR RTR 

4RWlft 4R RTR 

(0 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

1. 

RPCRR 

^RlTRTRRl 

ftRR ftf RTftRTH 




RTSyf RRft I 


[Ro RRo 

RR° 38017(37)/72-tTRo iqrfo] 



4353 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, IQ72/ASV1NA 29, 1894 


Sec. 3(ii)l 


CORRIGENDUM 
Neil i Delhi , the. 24 th July 1972 

S.O. 2971/ — In the notification of the Government of 
India in the fate Ministry' of Labour Employment find 
Rehabilit'i ion {Department of Labour anti Employ- 
ment) No S.O. 1206 dated the 6th March, 1971 publish- 
ed in the Gazette of India, Part II, section 3, sub-sec- 
tion (li) dated the 27th March, 1971, at pace 1558, in 
line 5, jor “are in force’’ read “arc pot in force”. 

[No. F. S.:53017(J7y/72-HI.J 
DAL JIT SINGII. Under Secy. 

Wf fcPFf, 24 ^Flf, 19 72 


Flo RTo 2971. — WKW F UFTW, WTW 2, W 3, 
W-RFf? (ji) , WRfF 27 WITT, 1971 if TFffw W1TW 
WWFTT % TJWJ/f FW, TTFWIT WR JWffw WF1FW (WW 
!ffT TfFWIT fwwrw) FT Wfsi^FWr Wo Flo tpo 3 0 6, 
cnTfiJ 6 WTW, 1971, % 'JR 155 s IT, F>ff WffcT if 
% F4TT TT "STfW dff if I 

[WoTToirwo 38017(37)/72-nWo WTfo] 


Twftw fwf, wwr wfww I 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 1st July 1972 

S.O. 2972. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 27 of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 (11 of 
1948), the Central Government hereby adds to Part 
I of the Schedule to that Act the employment in Ste- 
atite Mine s (including the mines producing Seaps- 
tone and Tale) covered under, the Mines Act, 1952 
(35 of 1952), notice of its intention to do so having 
already been given by the notification of Government 
of India in the Ministry of Labour and Rehabilitation 
(Department of Labour and Employment) No, S.O, 
3899, dated the 21st September, 1971. as required by 
the said section. 


(ww wfr TtFWir fawn) 

wf fWcFf, 1 ijwrf, 1972 

FT Cl UT 0 2 9 7 2 — ff-MW wfafFTW, 1 948 ( 1948 

FT ll) «PV WITT 27 iJTTT 5TCF HlfFrwf FT STWtW FT?f 

WTFTT FPTT ff ffi 4l 4 H (fFW% 

FFpfw twwrff sffr 2TF FT ypTIFT FT^T WTFf FTW wf f) 
Ft ism FfErfwww, 1952 (1952 ft 35 ) % wwpfw 

WTWT f , Ft wfwfwifW T?t WW^ft % WTW I ff ^fT^fV | 
fsrw^ FT^ F 5117111 Ft TJFWT WFW WT+TT % FW Ft T 
q-dwrw WWTFW (FW FIT TtFWTT fwWTW) Ft Wfy^fil 
Wo FT ° FTo 38 9 9, WTfitF 21 ftRUFT, 1971 5TTT 9^ 
ft FT FTft ^WT fF TFT SRTT 51TT stfftlW % I 


[iTFo wio-lj2( 41 )/67-^®F[o f° (<TWo WSRJo}] 


S.O. 2973. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 27 of the Minimum Wages Act, 1943 (11 of 
1948), the Central Government hereby adds to Part 1 
of the Schedule to that Act the employment In Ochre 
Mines, notice of Its intention to do so having already 
been given by the notification of Government of India 
in the Ministry ol Labour and Rehabilitation (Depart- 
ment of Labour and Employment) No. SoOo 3410, dated 
the 1st September, 1971, as required by the said sec- 
tion. 

[No. LWI. 1-2(37) /67-WE(MW).] 
HANS RAJ CHHABRA, Under Secy. 

FT° FT 0 2 9 7 3 — iWWWW WF^Tt wftlfwWW, 1948( 1948 
FT 11 ) Ft SIFT 27 3TTT W?tT FfwWWT FT WWtW FUt 
F?#T WTF1T UFTtfKT WFT wMWFT Ft WWgFt % WET 1 
if wrF>T ftwt % fort ft Ft Ffoff \ ; F^rw wtftt % 
ifFT FTW % FRET sfSt gw TFT STTTT tTPCT W4TT^ffflM 
WTTW WTFTT F FW WR qvfow WWTFT (FW WR TtFfiTT 
fw’wrw) Ff FfErgFwnfo fto wto 341 o, 1 fwcuwr, 

1971 TRI Tf -ff FT WTff | I 


[Wo trsfo WiFTo?nfoX-2( 37)/67SFFofo(irWo ^?W 0 )] 

fWTIF BSEirr W4T wfwd I 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 6th July 1972 

S.O. 2974. — -In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 27 of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 (11 of 1948), 
the Central Government hereby adds to Part I of the 
Schedule to that Act the emp'oyment In Asbestos Mines 
notice of its intention to do so having already been 
given by the notification ol Government of India in 
the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilita- 
tion (Department of Labour and Employment) No, 

S.O, 21, dated the 27th November, 1971, as required 
by the said section. 

[No. LWI-I-2 (15) /G7-WE(MW) ] 

(ww TNW 1 T fwWTW) 
diferff, e^jwr!, 1972 


FTO WTO 2 9 74. — s^WcTW WFjff WfwfdTW, 1948 
( 1948 FT 1 1) # TTTTT 27 sTRT FfFdWt FT JfWtW 
FT^ RTFTT TFIJTTT, TFT wfwfFTW W^ff 

% WTW I if, fhF#?ETW STTWf ff fwwtWW Ft Wt^ft | WW^7 
FTW % WTFW ^FdT W1TW WTFR, WW, TtFWK 
Tlfr 'JdWfw WWTFW ( WW 5flT TfFWR fwWTW ) dff WfWgWdT 
Wo 21, With? 27 44H <, 1971 5KT, WW WTTT JRT 
WWIW'ffeiW, W?% ff FT ’fFf f I 

[tfFo T5?iJo WT^o l-'z( 1 5) f £ o (tnjoW^lo ) ] 


New Delhi, the 15 th July 1972 

S.O. 2975. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (2) of section 26 of the Minimum Wages 



4354 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 


Act, 1948 (11 of 1948), the Central Government hereby 
directs that for a period of five years from the date of 
publication of this notilicntion, in the Official Gazette, 
Ihe provisions of sections 12, 13, 14 and 18 of the said 
Act shall not apply to railway servants who are on 
time scales of pay approved by the Central Government 
and governed by the provisions of Chapter VIA of the 
Indian Railways Act, 1890 (9 of 1890), and the Indian 
Railways Establishment Code and who are employed 
in any scheduled employment on Railways. 

TNo. S.32014/3/71-WE(MW). | 
HANS RAJ CHHABRA, Dy. Secy. 

Rf ftwfr, 15 RTft 1972 

TT° m° 2975. — ^RRR RReTt srfafRRR, 1948 
( 1948TT ll) TtmTl 26Tt : 3'TO‘nT 2 STTI M'drf tfffRmf 

*pt ttrEt ttr gvr rr^rt f¥&r 4 rt 

fa W Rfa^RRT % TTTTT R TTTRR T[ Rkfa I 5 ^ 
Tt RTftr % fair R'TcT ^rfsrfRRTr Tt RTH 1 2 , 1 3, 14 
Rfa 18 % TR-R TR tj TKRiRRT TT TTPJ Rgf S'fa 
Rt RCPK 3KT mjfftfel RRR R TFT RRR RTR 9T 

? Rfa RKcfrtr Rk 5r%fRRR, 1890 (1890TT 9 ) 
% 5TSRTR 6T % Wfff, Rfc RTCfVR ?R TRRR fffgRT 
3TCT RlfRR f TRT Rt tRR R faRf fRRTRR R fRRT- 

fRR | I 

[Ro lTRo-32014(3)/71-'Srac^o fo (rrRo 

TR TTR RRRfT, 

RT RfRR, RTTR RWEt | 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 3rd July 1972 

S.O. 2976. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-sections (3) and (4) of section 5A of the Dock 
Worker® (Regulation of Employment) Act, 1948 (9 of 
1948), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri 
Govlnd H. Seth, as a member of the Bombay Dock 
Labour Board vice Shri L. M, Nadkami and makes the 
following further amendments in the notification of 
the Government of India in the late Ministry of Labour, 
Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment) No. S.O. 582, dated the 9th February, 
1907, namely: — 

In the said notification.— 

(1) under the heading “Members representing the 
Central Government", for item ( 1 ), the follow- 
ing item shall be substituted, namely: — 

“(1) Shri Govind H. Seth, Chairman of the 
Board of Trustees of the Port of Bombay 
Chairman." 

( 2 ) for paragraph 2 , the following paragraph shall 
be substituted, namely: — 

“(2) The Central Government hereby nominates 
Shri Govind H. Seth as Chairman of the said 

Board." 

2. This notification shall be deemed to have come 
Into force on the 21st March, 1972. 

[No. 51/5/68-Fac .II/P&D.] 


1972/ ASV1NA 29, 1894 [Part ll— 

(kR Rfa TERRIT fRRTR) 

Rh facRT, 3 1 97 2 

RRo m° 2 9 76 . ITT TRTTT (fRRRR TT fafRWT) 
kfafRRR 1948 ( 1948TT 9) Rt ETTTT 5-T Rf RTOTTTRi 

(3) Rfa (4) 3 T?T TTR srfW)' TT SlRfa TkR ^ %pfrR 
TOR tTRRSTTr RFd-R iTRo Rr R[ RF i^ToiTiro RTTT'ft 
% kTTR RT RTrR RTT «TR Rtt % TFT?R % R fRpR TTfR 
| Rfa RKR TOR % «TR, TIWR Rk JrRrT 
R^mr (mr Rk Rrftk {Rrtr) Rlr srfaijRRT Rsrt 

TTo mo 582Rkfa 9 fikrfl', 1967 R Rk mR fakT- 

fafar RRrmr — 

'd'Kl ^rftf^RRT R, — 

( 1 ) rttr tt TTfafafacR ttR rtR 
RRW” RRfa % m/PlR, R? ( 1 ) % faR 
fatRlRfaiff RTR Rt srfRknfTR faRT RRiRT, 
mtfq; 

"(1) Rt Rrfmtr 1150 Rs, Rtr % rtiRt 
% wmr srwiT i" 

(2) Rrr 2 % fkn[, fRmfRPTar Rcr srfRpqTfRR 

farn RT[RT, RTRfq; . 

“( 2 ) RtfapR tfRo R5 Ttl 

t[RR5TTr rw Rtf t wrer % tr R RifRr I i” 
2 . ri wftrgw 21 rtR, 1972 R gt rir'' 

1 

[R° 51 / 5 / 68 -^To II/Rro R\t Rr 0 ] 

New Delhi, the 17 th July 1972 

S.O. 2977. — In exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (1) of section 6 of the Dock Workers 
(.Regulation of Employment) Act, 1948 (9 of 1948), and 
in continuation of the notification of the Government 
of India in the late Ministry of Labour and Employ- 
ment No. 528/199/65-Fac. (S.O. 517), dated the 10th 
February, 1966, the Central Government hereby 
appoints the following Deputy Chairmen of Dock 
Labour Boards to be Inspectors ih addition to the 
Labour Enforcement Officers (Central) and Conciliation 
Officers (Central) (now designated as Assistance La- 
bour Commissioners) at the Ports mentioned against 
them for the purposes of the said Act, namely:— 


I. 

Deputy Chairman, Bombay 

Bombay Port. 

2 . 

Deputy Chairman, Calcutta. 

Calcutta Port. 

.3. 

Deputy Chairman, Madras. 

Madras Port. 

4- 

Deputy Chairman, Cochin. . 

Cochin Port. 

5- 

D ;puty Chairman, Visakhapatnam. 

Visakhapatnam Port, 

6 . 

Deputy Chairman, Mormugao 

Mormugao Port. 

7- 

Deputy Cha'rman Kandla, . 

Kandla Port. 


[No. S-18013/1/72-P&D] 



S^c. ?(ii)l 


THE 0A2ETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4355 


Tl 17 XTif 1 972 

XT 0 RT 0 2 9 7 7— YTX XRXR ( fXTtXR XT ) RfaffiRR 

1948 ( 1 9 4 8 XT 9) dft RRT 6 Xl TTOTTT (j) TTTT RRT 
RTf^cDTt XT RRTR XXT |.t ?|R ■jtHjT XRR % »RT 

wk tDetk rritfr xT xfx^RRT no 528 / 199/05 
(htt 0 mo 517’) rrFj 10 xxrt, i 960 % xr it, 
rrIr rxr, xrx nFrx xt# % famfarfaT rriernt xt, 

: — 

1 . rrtsjtn, trt — rx£ rtr 

2 . rrtntn, xtxvi 1 — xrtxwt 'ept 

3 . rtiwr, rrtr — -rttr ret 

4. nqiwfr, xkftR — xTrTr r nr 

5. rrtsrtt, fnsir'stT'Tim — fRRFXpTERR rtr^ 

6. rrtsrt, rtrrtr — rrrtr rtr 

-O V3 

7. RRERTT , XiTR — XiRTT RET 

rr% rirT tFtt rtrt r to srfRfRRR % wiwr % 
fsrff tTRjrnr nr rrrr Rfaxrfr (TrEt) nVt TTfaxR 
(%ffrn) (fsrf| nr rztrx nr ntrtr RRrfRR fxxr rrt 
|) % nFrFrr farters fRtrxr xxfT | 1 

[no HR 0 180 13 / 1/72 'ft 0 rt fU] 


S.O. 2978. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
su'b-section (1) of section 4 of the Dock Workers (Re- 
gulation of Employment) Act, 194ft (9 of 1948), the 
Central Government hereby extends the date specified 
for the purpose of inviting objectioons or suggestios 
on the draft of the Kandla Dock Workers (Re- 
gulation of Employment) Amendment Scheme, 
1970 (annexed hereto), published with the noti- 
fication of the Government of India in the 
late Ministry of Labour, Employment and 

Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Emp- 
loyment) No. S.O, 1319, dated the 17th March, 1971 
from the 15th April, 1971 to a date one month from 
the date of publication of this notification. 


2. Any objections or suggestions which may be re- 
ceived from any person with respect to the said Draft 
Scheme on or before the date so extended will be con- 
sidered by the Central Government. 

Draft Scheme 

1. This Scheme may be called the Kandla Dock Wor- 
kers (Regulation of Employment) Amendment Scheme, 
1972. 

2, In the Kandla Dock Workers (Regulation of Emp- 
loyment) Scheme, 19G9, in item (c) of sub-clause (1) 
of clause 1G, for the words "and in case’’ the words 
‘‘and in no case’’ shall be substituted. 

[No, 57/4/70-P&D.] 

XRo N>o 2 978. — TEE XRXR 

(fRRtXRXT fafRRRR) srfkftm, 1948 (l948Vr 9) 
xt RRT 4 4?r TOTH (l) ifRT SERI xfXTRlr 
XT RRtR XRT ^ RR TdTRRT XtTNT TTX x4* 

xtt (PtrIxr xr f#rro) rotrr f^r, 1970 (**% 

TTrxa) % RTXR R XT RTRf RXR % RXJ$ NR, TtXRR 
*f[T 5dXfd WW (>Rf TfU TDFTR fRRTR ) XT wfRjNRT 
tfoXT°NT° 1319 Rr&N, l7RFf, 1 9 7 1 % RTR RXTfiRR 
NT^R RT ^TIX RlRf^TR XTR % RRtXR % fair M r- 

Frcr xt 1 5 1 97 1 xt $r RftnjNRT 

RXPRR Xl TRET % T[X RTR R>t cfrfEaT XXffT ^ I 

2. TXT REFT % xk R fXRl nft sqfXT % W RXR 

xfk r£ rtCEr xt rt trr rf-r ?tr ri% riNtT rt tpriRt 

R RTXR iKi fXRR fXRT XTt[RT I 

RTXR ?*R 

1 . ?R ?#R XT RTR XT* XT XTX X#XR (fRRtXR XT 
fafif R RR ) RXtRR ?R^R; 1972 flRf I 



[Part ll 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


435 6 

2. FfeTT RTF FRFTT (fRHtFR FT Wrwt) C#T, 
19 69 t WR? 16 % RFaPiR ( l) Ft HR (r) % HTt^ft 

if 'V? spr %h” w®Rt % prtr ft $r *fr W 
srfT^TTfrer fFR fitch i 

[Ro 5 7 ( 4 ) / 7 0— ’ft ° TM* ®t°] 


ORDERS 


New Delhi, the 3rd July 1972 

S.O. 2979. — Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the management of the Calcutta 
Port Commissioners, Calcutta and their Workmen in 
respect of the matters Specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed; - l. — i< 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer tHe said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudica- 
tion to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
Calcutta, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 


Schedule 

(1) Whether the action of the Commissioners for 

the Port of Calcutta in putting Shrl P. K. 
Bhattacharjee and Shrl S. P. Bhattacharjee on 
trial for six mohths in the post of Upper Divi- 
sion Clerk (Selection Grade) in the Security 
Section under the Secretary’s Department of 
the Commissioners for determining their suit- 
ability for adjustment against the post was 
justified? If not, what should be the correct 
procedure for judging suitability? 


(2) Whether the action of the Commissioners for the 
Port of Calcutta in declaring Shrj S. P. Bhatta- 
charjee senior to Shri P. K. Bhattacharjee is 
justified? If not, whnt should he their inter- 
seniority? 

[No. L-32012/ 1 / 72-P&D.J 

hirf 

Rf fc?eft, 3 ^'TTf, 1972 

Fro srro 2979 — .hr: rfftt Ft hr I 

fr w E 3THIT Sf fmm f Fit r tott 

TcHR HRJW, FHFFT % RTR^ fRTtWi tftt UR% FR- 
FltT % t^F EttFtfHF fRHTR fHITHTR ^ ; 

Hcf:, %RftH RTFET RFR fHHTR Ft vgTg f-Md 'T 
% fatr fdffTJTR FTRT RTU-ftt RHFRt $ ; 

HP, FT, hW>FhF faHTS WORRIT, 1947 ( 1947 

•ft 14) ft arm 10 Ft BTHm (1) % w (w) am 
sr^ci srfamft ft fret ftp fi, rtfit 

3HH fwr Ft TFT hMHtr Ft RTTT 7-F % HtftR RfecT 
FRltH RTFTT HtsftfRF HftTFUR FRFtTT Ft mHfR’FTR 
% IdU Gi^ftpl Fteft ^ I 

? m: ^ 

( 1 ) FIT HPJFT % RfHH-fHHTR % HtflF RVSTT fa- 
HTH % £®ft fwfRF (FIR mt) % TH FT sft efto 
HEtTREf Htr tTRo rft O RFdTRrtf Ft, RR Ft HT 
HHTRtHR % fRir RHH>t RFJFTHT % HHOTUH % f^rr, 
RTjtRf HF TTtST’H FT Pad H?t FRFrTT % FTTR STPJFT 
R?t FT^Hlf fRTFtfRR «ft ? RfR R^t , eft RH^FIdl % 
% ftrq R$t FfFHT FIT ?>ft ? 

( 2 ) FIT TfR 0 it o RFdNIt} Ft «ft efto ^0 RHHFRRt 
vft & RfmS RtfRRT FT^T % FRFvTT RcRR RPJW ®f?t 
FT^HT^ RtPftfFT ? RfR R^t (ft RRtft HRR' if *1 P<V»d I 
FIT ftRt RTf^ ? 

[r» qRo 32012/1/72-fNtoia ]q 



SEC. 3(ii>] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVTNA 29. 1894 


4357 


New Delhi, the 12 tli July 1972 

S.O. 2980. — Whereas the industrial dispute specified 
in the Schedule annexed Is pending before Shri B, N. 
Banerjee, Presidii% Officer, National Tribunal, Calcutta; 

And whereas, the services of Shri B. N. Banerjee, 
the Presiding Officer of the said National Tribunal have 
ceased to be available; 

Now, therefore, .in exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 7B, and sub-section (1) of section 33B of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby constitutes a National Tri- 
bunal with Shri B. N. Bagchi as Presiding Officer, with 
headouarters at Calcutta and withdraws the proceed- 
ings in relation to the said dispute from Shri B. N. 
Banerjee and transfers the same to Shri B. N. Bagchi, 
Presiding Officer, National Tribunal. Calcutta for the 
disposal of the said Proceedings with the directions that 
the said National Tribunal shall proceed with the pro- 
ceedings from the stage at which they are transferred 
to it and dispose of the same according to law. 


Schedule 


Parties to the Dispute. No. & date of S- O. No. of 
reformce to Gazette and 

a National date of 

Tribunal. publication. 


Bargemen reproscntcl by— No, 72/10(70- Extraordinary 

P&D dated 25th Gazetre s.O. 

(1) Calcutta Port Shramic August 1970 No. 2814, dt. 

Union, Calcutta-23. . dated tho 25th 

August, 1970. 

( 2 ) Calcutta Port and Dock 
Worker.:, Union, Calcutta 

-23- 

(3) Calcutta Dock Wokors, 

Union, CiIcutta-23. 

(4) W ;st Bengal Dock Mazdoor 
Union, Calcutta-23. 

(5) Calcttta Boatman’s Union, 

Calcurta-23. 

and 

the owners of barges ligh- 
ters and boats” represented 
by— 

(1) The Bengal River Trans- 
port Association, Cal- 
cutta- 1. 

(2) Ths Calcutta River Trans- 
port Association, Calcutta- 

I. 

(3 ) Messrs Fraser and Com- 
pany, Calcutta-i. 


[No. 72/10/70-P&0-VOLIII.] 
O, P. TALWAR, Dy, Secy. 


FrffecNt, 12 Trent 1972 


Tro mo 2 98 9- — TT: qq% if 

ntnrPdT fwq nr YYo trqo qqqf, qyqrqtq 


srftFFrd, wfm.t'M, ^phe^t % wi nfinn 

t ; 

srYq qq: qqq TFjyq srFqETq qYsiqyq nrnwtV 
zfy qYo mro qqqf fr m qqrrq q;?Y t^tY 1 

] ' m:, m, qYaYPqT fqqre qfnfqqq, 1947 (1947 
tt 14) qfy nrqr 7-4T nYq ktrt 33 ( 1 ?) *eY qqnnT ( 1 ) 
sra nqur wftqqf qir ttYe *et?Y §rr ifw 
ira, iJT rpifPr nftrErq qFsq qrT-qY P, fqqT qysrqYq 
5 crPtrErFY sfY pq-e tt^-o qrqqY fqqqq qwqq winf 
tffiT sfY qyorrqoirqdff *Y TFT FtTF? 7 T mWZ qTT 4 Tfeqy 
qiy qrPqq %tfy t qYc ttt qnqqrFzqY qiY fqqrnY % Fny 
sfY qq o rrq o qrqqY qruqYq qf'jEitY, cc/Yq TrfnTT'q, 
TTEfTr eY ^q Fdtn % nw EFqfYq eHt % Fqr ttt 
tt^Yt ttFuett tfif nrq qqr tee q qqqqrifY tint 
fqq qq t qq smrfqq q?r q$ $ ttYt fafa % nttu tr 
fTmtTffi- ; 

iTTF[ty 


fqqiT 41 T 5 TTTT 

qr^Yq srFsr- 

qrrnqY 
;qqqq Fq- 
qq EYq° 
nYq qnYq 

uqqq tr 

qTo mo 

qo qYqq- 

qdqd 

qrqYqr 

qq't qi% FtTTF qfdfdfnGT 

qo 72/10/ nTiTirq 

( 1 ) TT E-dr Ttf NPTE Tf'T- 

7 0 -TYtyq 

zrqqq qrr° 

qq 2 3 

sY° qrqYir 

qro qe 28 U 

(2) qrqTwrr qY£ it®* tpe 



app^ijfqqq, ^H+ffIT -23 

25 nq?q, 


( 3 ) T-qqq=n tpe qfq- 

1 970 , 

trYn 25 

qq, qin+rdT- 2 3 


mm , 

(4) qF?qqy qqrn qrE-qq- 


1970 . 

^T^fqqq, qpqqrfqr -23 



( 5 ) TufErdT qtqtNT ijfqqq 



qNE-qr-23 4 FettI 1 




nYq 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II — 


4358 


far PI % TflTTT 


TBR Rtf TT o BT o 


15 80 diFUsi 17 Slfcr, 1970 *pt Trfrr^cT RT7% §rr, %BftR 
tKTK ITcTI 5RT Rtfeh Tf grrf Tift ifrfft Rft 


wr re fft- #0 5 t',t st- 
rut uft %° RTRE uft 

WYT sTTThf ffltl Tg- 


5RTf, 0 1 -1 °fld f tft T RfaiWi 
% FRPft fRRRE srfRftrfacR: — 

( 1 ) RRiuf^^iFftrEW, 

( 2 ) T^TTrE froTT ^ftfftt? ERE, 

RkTRETT- 1 , 

(3) EE% ITFR n;sy RTREt, { 

RiERRET- 1 

%fw| I 

[E° 72/10/70-^0 ttr fto-fR?? Ill] 

j! WT 0 'fro cE-HIf, 

EE EpEE, ETTE EWPi l 

(Department of Labour anS Employment 

New Delhi, the 10th July 1972 

S.O. 2981.— -In exercise of the powers conferred hy 
sub-section (1) of section 83 of the Mines Act, 1952 (315 
of 1952), and in supersession of the notifications of the 
Government of India In the late Ministry of Labour 
Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of 
Labour and Employment) No. S.O. 4301, dated the 17th 
October, 1969 and No. S.O. 1580, dated the 17th April. 
1970, the Central Government hereby exempts all the 
mines working moulding sand from all the provisions 
of the said Act except those contained in sections 7, 8, 
9, 44, 45, 46 and the provisions of Chapter IX of the 
said Act, subject to the following conditions, namely: — 
(i) the depth of the excavation measured from its 
highest to its lowest point nowhere exceeds 1.5 
metres; 

(li) the number of persons employed on any one 
day does not exceed 20; 

(ill) explosives are not, used in connection with 
the excavation; and 

(iv) the workings do not extend below the super- 
jacent ground. 

TNo. S-290 14/10 /72-MI. 1 
B. K. SAKSENA, Under Secy. 

(ism sflr t>eett ftroTR) 

E$ fSevft, 10 ujETT'l 1972 

qTTo5TTo 2981 .—id in Aifyfnhh, 1952 ( 1 9 52 RE 35) 
qfttTTTT 83^'3'TtrnT ( l) TPT ERE UlPRufi'-RE EEtE 
sfrrft |TT sftr ifiB E^RET % EE, TtERTT Ek 

ER E ft l EETEE («HT RfVt THU IT fRETE ) Eft Efti^Edl E° 
nni~ ' lE^ERET, 1969*ftT EoREoET° 


see srftrfwi, % mft Bwfr it, Feetr wnu 7 , 8, 9 , 44 , 

45, 46 mi ERE SrftrfWT % EEETE 9 %BEE?sft uft fRTE- 

FEfEE UTsff % WKirtfDT ERE REEft 

(i) 'dbddd T E^REE ft FdTEEf fap^ ERI 

ftt EEEf 1 , 5 RVTC it EfEE R fft ; 

(ii) fEEft ITT FEE fEEtPRE 3EFfEEf Eft EW 20% 

?rftrr e {ft 

(iii) rrtrr % f%TT Fbeetet tree r Ft/ rr ftr, 
sfk 

(iv) RRfTRRRi;raB-%Rt%RTRf> I 

[ft° ffE-29 0 1 4/10/7 2 -rnfo ET^o] 
Rto %o EfftRf, 

URL eFee, ETTE EfRR I 


(Department of Labour and Employm e nt 

New Delhi, the filth, July 1972 

S.O. 2982. — In pursuance of sub-section (4) of sec- 
tion 3 of the Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund Act, 
1846 (22 of 1946, the Central Government hereby pub- 
lishes the following report of the activities financed 
from the Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund during the 
year ending the 31st March. 1970, together with a 
statement of accounts for that year and an estimate 
of receipts and expenditure of the said Fund for the 
year 1970-71. 

Part I 

1. General. — The Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund 
has been constituted under the Mica Mines Labour 
Welfare Fund Act, 1946 (22 of 1946) for the financing 
of activities to promote the welfare of labour employ- 
ed in the mica mining industry. Some of the major 
activities enumerated for this«purpose are sanitation 
medical facilities, housing. water supply, education, 
general improvement in the standard of living and 
recreational facilities. 

2. The Act provides for the lew as a cess of a duty 
of customs on all mica exported from the territories 
to which the Act extends at a rate not exceeding 61 
per cent od valorem. Th° rate fixed for the present, 
however, is 21 per cent ad valorem. The collections 
are allocated for expenditure on welfare measures 
among the various mica-producing areas in propor- 
tion to their average production. 

3. To advice fhe Centrnl Government on matters 

connected with the administration of the Act. the 
rvntrei Government has constituted three Advbnrv 
Commi+tees (reo"°seof,ing the Government the owners 
ryf mica mines end the workmen emnloved in the mice 
mirenci ’udiudrv) i “ n"' 1 c-ch hr the Ktntps of 

Andfirn n>T-i,1 e sh Bihar en.i p-d-r|Vi-n, To cn-nrdicqte 

1 1 , ,, n-fodti-'s of the rc" ; T Bunds fhrvrp V'CS for- 
rnpi-eV a Co-nrdinstinc Committee censictmo rF cm 

cials only, In order to give representation to the 



Sec. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4359 


mica mine workers and mica mine employers, the 
Committee was replaced on the 5th October, 1967 by 
a Tripartite Central Advisory Board under the Chair- 
manship of the Joint Secretary in the Ministry. The 
first meeting of the Board was held at Hyderabad cn 
the 28th December, 1967. On the expiry of the life 
of the Board which was for a period of one year, the 
Board was reconstituted on the 26th November, 1968 
and its tenure was fixed for three years. At the 
second meeting of the Board held on the 14th Decem- 
ber 1968 at Bhilwara (Rajasthan), the Board recom- 
mended that each State Advisory Committee should 
have the Labour Minister of the State as its Chair- 
man. The recommendation was accepted by the Cen- 
tral Government and the Labour Ministers of the 
States have been made Chairmen of the State Advi- 
sory Committees. 

4. The following welfare measures have been under- 
taken in the States of Bihar, Andhra Pradesh and 
Rajasthan: — 

(i) Medical facilities 

(a) Hospitals . — A 100-bed Central Hospital at Karma 
(Bihar), a 30-bed Regional Hospital at Tisri (Bihar 

a 14-bed Hospital at Kalichedu (Andhra Pradesh) 
and a 30-bed Central Hospital at Gangapur (Rajasthan) 
continued to be maintained from the resources of the 
Fund. The dispensary at Talupur (Andhra Pradesh) 
was converted into a 10-bed hospital. A 50-bed T.B. 
Hospital at Karma (Bihar) and a 16-bed T.B. Ward 
attached to the hospital at Kalichedu and a 30-bed 
T.B. Clinic at Tisri (Bihar) also continued to func- 
tion. 

(b) Other medical facilities . — Other medical institu- 
tions set. up from the finances of the Fund comprised 
Static Dispensaries, Ayurvedic Dispensaries, ■ Mobile 
Medical Units. Maternity and Child Welfare C^nt-^s, 
etc. The regional distribution of these medical ins- 
tions during the year is as under: — 


Msl’cal Institutions 

An Ihra 
Pradesh 

Bi’ia-- 

R ii a Vha a 

Ayurvedic Dispensaries. 

3 

7 

12 

Sta f ic Dispensaries 

2 

5 

5 

Mob'le Medical Units. 

I 

3 

4 

Maternity and Child Welfare/ 

Small Community Centres. 4 

7 

7 


' Six beds in Government Welfare Fund T.B. and 
Chest Diseases Hospital. Nellore, were reserved for 
the exclusive use of mica miners and their families. 
Arrangements were continued for the treatment at 
the Tetulmari Leprosy Hospital of mica miners of 
Bihar who suffer from Leprosy. An X-ray plant 
was installed during the year at the Government 
Hospital, Gudur, with financial assistance from the 
Fund to the extent of Rs. 24,000 towards its cost. 


(c) Assistance to T.B. natients . — Subsistence allow- 
ance at Rs. 50.00 per month continued to be granted to 
the dependents of mica miners who wer» under + reat. 
menf in the T.B. Ward attached to the Central Hospi- 
tal, Karma. 


The scheme of domic”iary tre-tmeut of T.B. and 
Silicosis patients was also continued Tb« pa .i en t.s 
o++ e ndmc the out-door department of the TB. Hospi- 
tal Nellore. were wanted travelling allowance A 

Rehabiiitatioo-num-Convalesneoco Home ret up m 

Bihar for workers cured of T.P.. continued +o func- 
tion Financial assistance to mica miners suffering 


from T.B. by way of aid of Rs. 50.00 per month asi 
subsistence allowance and Rs. 50.00 per month for 
special diet for six months continued to be provided. 
The Scheme of domiciliary treatment of T.B. patients 
among mica miners was continued in Rajasthan. 

(ii) Educational facilities . — Nine Multipurpose Insti- 
tutes, each with an Adult Education Centre and a 
Women’s Welfare Section, provided educational and 
recreational facilities to workers, training in handi- 
crafts like sewing etc., to the female workers and 
dependents of miners in Bihar. In two women’s Centres 
in Andhra Pradesh and seven such Centres in Rajas- 
than, girls and women workers were taught tailor- 
ing, stitching, etc. Educational facilities for miners’ 
children were being provided in 6 Elementary 
Schools. 2 High Schools and 2 Adult Literacy Centres 
in Andhra Pradesh, 4 Primary Schools, 4 Middle 
Schools, and 7 Feeder Centres in Bihar, 2 Primary 
Schools. 1 Middle School, 24 Adult Education Centres 
and 5 Feeder Centres in Rajasthan. Besides these, 
one evening Mining School was functioning in Andhra 
Pradesh. It imparted training facilities to miners in 
mining trades. 

In the schools in Andhra Pradesh, children of mica 
miners were provided with facilities like free mid-day 
meals, milk, books, slates and clothing. Milk, tiffin 
books, slates, clothing. * ■ ■■■ ' 1 < miners’ 

children attending tlm ’ ■ ;■■■■■. Com- 

munitv centres and Schools in Bihar. The children 
attending the Multipurpose Institutes in Bihar were 
given bath dajlv for which oil and soap were provided 
bv the Institutes. Mid-day meals, books, slates and 
other stationery articles were supplied to the school- 
going children of mica miners in Rajasthan. 

Feur boarding houses in Bihar and two in Andhra 
Pradesh continued to be run for the children of mica 
miners studving in schools and colleges. A hostel set 
ud at Gangaour (Raiastban) for '’hildr°n of mica 
miners studying in Higher Secondary Schools con- 
tinued to function. 

Scholarshjns were granted to the children of mica 
miners studying in schools and colleges in Bihar, 
Andhra Pradesh curl Raiasthan. Such scholarships 
w°re granted for both general and technical education 
Mwa Miners’ children studying in schools were also 
"ranted i 'p_:mbiirsement of tuition fee in Bihar. A 
°"honla Health Programme was introduced in the two 
Higher Becoodamr Sehonls and six Fl°men t arv Sohools 
under the Fund organisation in Andhra Pradesh. 

fiii) Recreational facilities Four mobile cinema 

units (three in Bihar and one in Rajasthan), gave free 
show= in different raining centres. Radio sets con- 
tinued to he orovided for the recreation of mica 
and their families. In B’har. the recreational 
facilities were provided at Mult’uuruose In«t ! tu+°s. 
Communitv and Feeder Centres. Out-door and in- 
door recreational facilities w°re also t>rovid“d in the 
Centric sub-centr°s and feeder centres in Rai"°than. 
pari is Becreational Clnhs in Andhra Prad es h. Bhaian 
aud Kir+an narfipt; were organised in different mining 
a-o-,a. Anmial Snnrta WP-O aim conducted in the form 
of Zonal Tournaments and prizes were distributed to 
the winners. 


Civ) Drinking mater facilities . — 80 wells (74 in 
Bibar and 6 in Andhra Pradesh! were constructed 
those sunk during 196°-7n Twelve additional bv 
the Fu"d Organisation Out of th°°° 14 well= wore 
rvolN—S in Bihar and 9 m Andhra Pradesh — were also 
sunk under the subs’dv Scheme under which the mine 
owners who sink wel's set a =uhsidv equal to ps " con 
ner well o>- 75 ner cent of the cost of construction, 
whichever is less. 



43^0 


rHE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II — 


(v) Refusing facilities. — The progress of housing in 
the three regions was as under: — 

(a) In Bihar, a departmental colony consisting of 
50 houses was provided at Jorasimar. An- 
other colony of 48 houses at Domchanch had 
been completed. Construction of 500 low cost 
houses at a cost of Rs. 1,600 each was also 
sanctioned. 

(b) In Andhra Pradesh, sixteen houses under the 
Low cost Housing Scheme were under con- 
struction and nearing completion. Work 
orders for 12 more houses were issued. Seven 
houses were constructed under the “Bild Your 
Own House Scheme”. Construction of 5 more 
houses under the same scheme was in pro- 
gress.- In addition to the sanction already 
accorded to a departmental colony of 50 
houses at Shah Mines, sanction was given to 
the construction of another colony of 40 
houses at Talupur. 

(c) Tn Raiasthan. part subsidy to 48 mica mine 
“Build Your Own House Scheme” had been 
workers for construction of houses under 

(vi) Financial help in case of accidents . — The 
Scheme relating to the grant of financial 
paid. 

assistance from the Fund to the widows and 
children of mica miners who die as a result 
of accidents was continued. 

(vp Consumer’s Co-ctperctive Storps .— One whole- 
sale ('Central') Consumers’ Co-operative 
Stores with «even branches and five primarv 
c+nrec in Bihar and four r-imaur consumers’ 
r , o-onoratb r e «tr»reg (n A ndhrs Pradesh ecu - 
timmd to function In Raiasthan region also 

consumer snnda W'"" ~i-'-Ucd B "-up- mining 

population through six co-operative Stores. 

Past II 


♦Statement of Accounts for the year 169 - 70 . 


Receipts. 


Exoeu liture 



Rs. 


Rs. 

Ooenin? balance 

on t s t Ap-il, 

1969 

1 , 56 , 25,027 

Expenditure du- 
ring the year. 

5c,49,6q2 

Rec rot? during 
the year. 

30 , 85,588 

Closing balance. 

1 , 42,60 on 3 

Total 

1 , 96 . 10,615 


1, 96 . TO, 6l5 






♦p'gires in Ecu i 1 bv Ancein t ant General Central Revenues 
in the Appropriation Accounts. 


Part ill 

Aktuals Receipts & Exoen litare for the year 1970 - 71 . 

Receipts Ri. 3 L 47>209 

Exneniiture Rs. 43 = 71,500 

[No. F. 2 - 1601513/71 M-III1 
P. R. Nayar, 
Under Secy. 


(spr srk rVrrtr fRRTR) 
fit fewft, 19 RRlf, 1972 

firr 0 ?tto 2 9 S 2 — sthr igiR m rpriw ffifsr ?rffer- 

ffiRR, 1946 ( 1946 RT 22) # RIRT 3 RRRTRT ( 4) 
STRT RRfT fill RRR fR %firtR RRRTR, 3 1 RTR, 

1970 TT RfiTH ^Tfi RR RR % RPTR RHR RTR TTcRTR 
ffifST it ffiR RtfRR f^TrTRPT fit ffiRMfiTR fRTtf TR Rif 
% RRT % ffifiTR RTR RT=r ffif-T R RR 1 970-71 Tt RrfRfif 
RtR 5RR % RT RRRR % RfnR RRRRTRT R + lPdR «t> <yfY f I 

RTR 1 

1. RiRTRR ; R'RR VRTR RR RRRPR ffifR RR R3R 

5HRF RTR RR TwRPR ffifR TtfsrfRRR, 1946 ( 1946 RT 
2 2)% RRtR RHR ifiTR RRlR R ffiRlfRR RffiRT % fiRTPR 
fit RpRfife Tilt % f^RTTRTR RT ffirPim RTRl % ffiPT 
fTRl RRT | I fR RRTRR % ffiTtr RRpRR f U R? ffifRT^RTR 
fRpRRfR IjfRRrn;, RTRRfi, RRRfiTR, fwSftT ffR 
HfTfi % t R1RFR gRTT RRT RIRtR-RRlR fit RfRRTtr 

2. RfRffiRR t Rfi RRR tfoff %, fRR RR srfsrffiRE RT 
fRPRK |, ffifitR # fif R'tfr RHR RT 6j RffifiTR RfiRTRRTR 
% RfifsTR RT RT, RRRTR % RR it R[RT STeRT % RRR^RT % 
fvpT RRRfR | I f%TR R'Rt % fRlT ffiRR RT 2 % RffiRR 
RcRrfiRTR | I RRRR fRffiR RRT RfRTRT RRT Jf Rfi% 
5ftRR RcRTfiR % RRRTR it, T7RPRTR °RR % ffTR RTRfzR 
fTR R1% | I 

3. RfarfRRR % R5TTRR R RffiR ffiRfif % fiTR Jr 
RRRR Rt RRR ^fi % fRR %fRtR RRTTR R (RRRrR TR, 
RRR RiRt % fifiTfRRT RR ttR RRT RRTR if ffittftcT 
RRRrR'f fiR Rffiffifsicfi TRR RTRt) RTR RRTfRR RfRffiRT 
RF5R fit | RRTR Rt’R R?R, ffifR RRT RRTRRTR RRR R 
STcRR % fR(T RR TTRi RpRfR 1 RltftrT ffifRRT % fRRFRTTR 
fit RRffRR TRR % fRR T|R RR RRffiR RfRfd tT f^RR 

RRRRRr ®RFTR R I R'RR RTR RRRRRf RR RHT 
RTR fRRtRRf Tt RFfiFfifSTfR % fRR RR Rfiffd % RRTR 
RR 5 RTRRR, 1 967 fit ttfil fRR?ftR %fjtR RRT^RRR Rtf 
RfiTRT RRT ffiRR RSR5T RtRIRR % RRRR RffiR R I RR 
Rtt # R^fft fsTi ffiRTRlR t 28 feRRR, 1967 fit 
Rt I R| Rtf fit fit RRff % fHR RT R^R Rtt % RtRfiRRR 

% RRRR ft RR, Rq 2 6 fiRCfiR, 19 68 Tit Jfi'fifA'R 
ffiRR RRT RjR RRRT RfiPd Rtfi RR ffiRR # fif I Rtt # 
^RRt R5R it, Rt RTRRTRT (RTRRRTfi) Jr 14 fePRR, 
1968 Tft ft Rt, Rtf ^ Rf fRRTTfRR # RRR 



Sec. 3(ii)l 


436i 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVTNA 29, 1894 


TTftTfH RT RKTW RET TOR RT SPT Rfe RETT 
Rlfen 1 RfeE RRER R Rf fefiTfkT ERfeK R“E 5ft fee 
TOTf % «SR Rfe TOT ETRTfRTE ETfefefT % WR8T TTT 
f?tT RCT | | 

4- fafTF, RTCT tRr ifk TOTERTT TOTT R ffefeRfer 
RT?qTRr4 TOT WTOT fen R(T | ; 

(l) fefecRTT TfTOCT 

(tt) TOW — faff* % ETTOfe R RW (fegTE) 

R n^ 100 Rfeift CRT TROr iTEW'dTR, fenfe 
(fR?K) R 30 TTRTRl RETT RT TfefeR 
^ETTTR RTEffeR (ifeT RTR) R 14 RTOift 
RTRT rnfT f[FTRTR ifk RRIRR: (TOERTT) R 
30 stnjTiff RTRT TR feRfe iTETdTR RTTT 
TO RR I TFfJE ('RtCT TRw) R RtRRTRR 
Rf 10 5RRT Rfe nR RTRRFT R RTO feRT 
RRf I RW (fer^TE) R 5 0 RRT RTCST ITR 
5TR TlR RT irETdTW ifk Rife TO fpTR 

t\ 

RFTRTR R ETTOT 1 6 RTO RTWT OR SIR TtR 
RT$ TRT fTETEt (ferTE) Rt 30 TOTT RTEft 
or TO TTR TOffaR TTR Rfe t| | 

(isr) tot fRferfeT ^fararrq;:— -fRfsr fe <jfe R 
ERTfRf fRR JTR iHT ferfETO ETERTTt R 
ERfTR iftRSTTETR RT^ffcR ifferTTOT, TOT 
ferfETO — Tffe, RTcj; ifk fwr^ EEWTE feT 
RtFt EPTlfTO | I f R rR %■ RkTR VT feriRTO 
ETERTTR RT TfefeE fETEE ffed TRIE R | : — 


TIE R TTTOE Rt T^T RT, iTrfefef Rt 50. 0 0 Ro iffenET 

% fenR R fetfe nfe ferr tort to i 

TO fed iffE ff-HdlTEdl $ feffeff % RR-TORTE Rt 
ERfe Rt dfe TOt Tf I m TtR RERRTR, ^ Rf^ER 

fRRTR R RTR TFT ftfipff ^R RIRT-RtTI fen RRT I WR ftR 
R #TR |R Rnfefer % fen if fij^TT R ERlfel JRRfe-RR 
RwiTR ^ RTR =ti ER 1 E^J I ¥TR TtR R T fVfecT R'SRi Rrfept 
feTT fe^R Rn % RR R 5 0 Ro RfeRTR rRe W t RTR % 
fRR^R R\RR % fEFT 5 0 Fo RfcIRTR tR felffe R^TRRT 
i\ Rfer t£\ i rrt fefeiT r R rt ttr % frfeft tR 

R^-RRRK RfeT TOTERR R RtR T^t R i 1 

(II) fRR; RfrrR Rfsftjtrr - fRCR R R> T^TR- 

Ruffe RFRRt R, fferR R reRtt r ; rt Rtf RtotR ^ Rtr 
RTT RlRt TRRTR RRRTR t, SFRRTTf Rt fesTT Rk RTRtR 
rr'k tR rPtrir, nferr wfem rtt gRm % RTfwf 
tR fRTrf Rife TRi RfRcrfr r ai^RTTr fen <rar i tmiR- 
rRr R ft rpR %?5t R nk ttrertr r RR ^t rtr %fef 

R RffeRf Rtf RffERr RRTTTff TR TRfjfkt, RlRTf ?nf% 

fRfjrf r£ 1 ^fRcr % r^rt tR fnwr r^jerR gfeRTR 

RFCT TIT R 6 TI r kRF EFRR TT Zlf CRRf ifk 2 Ttf 
RrwfRr %7str R, fefTT R 4 TrRfRR , 4 fRfen 
ERRT Rtf 7 Rfer ERTfrf R ?Re TTRERTR R 2 

TTRrRR CFTf, 1 fRfeT RFR, 2 4 Rtf fWT Rfet Wk5 
'JTTT R ft RTRR T#r I fR% RTRT4T, TTR IT tRr 
R rr RtRRmkr jjrr erw rrrt tct i rrR g-fRrR 
tR ’ttt ^rcrtRi R tRistr RfRutR cR fe 1 


krfR?RT RRTTR RttT Tf W 

RTTffTR nkarTT . 3 

ETfR-R RtTETTRT . 2 

RR krfecRT — tRtt . 1 

<r 

RTcJ Rk f?TT[ 5FFRT R/ 

Rtf RrTTrfTT RR 4 


fefR TTRTRTR 
7 12 

5 5 

3 4 


7 7 


rcfiR ttritr fRftr stt tit Rk bjrR Ret hww, 
RFRk, R RFRTR RFIR: RRfet ifk RR% 
fTF-T R WT RRTtR % fen RTTf&TT TT k ' 4 t I R5 ReR 
R El TTR R fe^TT R RR RFTR ’ffRRt R, Rt ^ R RtffT 
rrrit R Tpnn ^rrw ttj ^rr i ^ t tR R ckR tfe 
EER ffT ERRTEt iTETTm, RTF, R, fen R TWf TTRT WS 
24000 F 0 Rt ferfe TfTTTT R nRRT RRT I 

(r) err ttr R TtfRRf Rt r^ettt : — tr sr'eRT 
fer^f R, ferTT RfetT irnrTrT, ttert R ejehr ^-ir ftR 


mfir Tkr R E4fef R, nnTT feRRi R jtfrt Rt ^tt 
RFRT qR 'Rkrr, ^ei jetR, Rk RET RRt 
ft Rf i fRTrc R Rp^kfkr RerfrIt, rtrttIRr %fef 
ifk ERErf R rtR rtR isifR+t ir r^ri tR jr, fetfer, 
JET^, eR^' ; arm infe fen RR I fRBK R T^R^kftR 
ETERTRf R RtR Rfe R^Rf Rt Eld RR-1 TR I RR1 feTEfe fen 
Rr ifk RTRR Rt 5RRERT TERIR R dft I TTRERTR R iTFlR 
RfRRr R ERR RTR RTR Rfef RT RSRT^TR RtRR, JTRR 
E%f ifk iTR fe3R ETHTlft R> R^ I 


ERR! ifk RTEfet R iTSRTT ReR TTR iTFTR >a PhT 
% T^Rt % fen fefTC R RR ifk RFST T^T R Rt RTRIRTT 
RRtR RtR tR IRFRETT RTVRfeR ERR R iTETiTT RfR Rfe 
to ’rfenff R % fen Rtt^e ( etrertt) R EsnferT 

TTERR RRTT To I 


nwR Rfefef % fror, toit tRtt ifk ttr-ertt 
Rr ER fe Rk TifeRt R 4T&44H RtR Rfe RFRf fe Rl 5t ^fed 4 1 
Rf Tf I nfe ETTR^feTRf EfTHTER ifk T^RfeR Rfe fe 
TTRR % fwr R ffer Rt rR I iTWR *5fefR % TR Rsfe 



THE GAZETTE OF TNDTA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVTNA 29, 1894 


IF ART It— 


41 > J 


it ttE S rV yferfe % yfefey fef Rife- 

s' fe nt fe i 


fet 3ft nfet Jf <TfT f, fern: if njyy qffa fe feyyfe 
fe fet yf i 

mm afer if fear yyyy % marfe, fe T^crr yrcy- 
fen tyfef fetr rt? sffrfeFF rmfe if yy rrn-rymy- 
<til 4 ^R 5 JT R ' feRT yyt I 

(III) mR'fesrfef fet yfefey-yn yy-fyyyr Trferf 
if (#T fen: if fen yF TT3FTET if) fefem yyy fefe 
if ifRT differ Ryfe-T fey | feyfe fen TT% 

ynfef i yfen srfey % fe ifeff in fey yfe fe i 
fen if mnfefe fernfe, myTtfey fen yryr %fef 
if yifefe srfefe fe yffery fe n? i yfSfer 5 t 1 t tret 
rtrit feyfe Tff rrifeiry fef nynrn r fefe, mr fefer, 
fen fenr fefe if ernr mm rfey % 1 5 mfefe yfer yyfe 
if aft yf 1 fern met staff if w fen fen Rwfeyt 
feyfey yt 1 yTfTy#Tyy nr -<ft srrfenry fefey yy?~ 

CN 

yn % «n if fen yyr fen fayyrfef yf ^nmy ferfer 

fey yy ■ 

(Iv) fenr? yt ^famy- fey feysy arm so 
fcf (74 fen if fen 6 mm fen if) mtyry yyt 

ifef if 14 fy ^ t 3 ft 1 969-70 feif ymy yy Sr 1 

am? fen ftf fet (3 fa?n if fen 9 mm fey if) nr 
y?ryyf cfeR % msffy yyTy yy fefe mfetT nr mr 
nnfeff it, fef yyfef, 75 ooy« yfe Tjy m rffe 
fefy it myr % 7 5 fenny % mm smf if fe fet yy 
fet yy% mm mryfe ffeyfe 1 1 

(V) mny feyry :- tet feyf feyf if mmy 
yf yyfy fyryffefer | :- 

(y ) fe?n if 5 0 RFfe mfe yy feRTRfy yrnftyt 
yftnfyyn if Rnf 1 48 yrnff yrrft yy 
?yy ymfr 4 t yfiraty if l gtt ?t yf «ft t 
1,600 r» yff ym % 500 mr yryy yr^r 
RFryf i yf?yyfy it it yyff T ft yf 
«ft 1 

(i) Rnar y^y if, mt tttt yilt yynff yft 
fefy % yryET rife w ferfyryfy 
i sfn ymn yyn fef § 1 12 
itx wm % fey yife rnff tit 
fe yy 3r 1 rm yw “nry yyyr yyiy 
yyyrfif yrfer” % ynftyyfery^ if 1 fet 
fefy ?y?fty 5 sfn Rfeff % yferfe 
m my yr 1 yn ynyt if 50 wryf 
it feREffe yfefe % fey fer ^t it nr 
^yt R^ft % ^fer^y ynrjr if 40 yyrryf 


(y) mmrrr if, ym rtet ymy mfer" 
%yiytyyyTyf% yfetfey %fe 48 to 
’jet nfecnf it RTfyyr ygTyyft y'm yn 
yf yf «ff 1 

(Vi) yft mrr if feyyr y^mr -tt 

nfey yff yf ?,ynmff yr erfrym^^y RT yfe £, feyyytff 

fer mfe yfr fey if ^ fefey y^mrr ^ir TRfet rfeT 
^'t ynr nyr yyr 1 

( VII) 3mfeFrT yfrmt fen : - fe^rr if yyr yn 
(%fefe nfer yfmrf fen, feyfe rm yfety | 
itr. Tfe yferyfen yfe wn tfey if yn yfein nr- 
yferr rnyfef fen nry nfe ^ Trynny ifey if «ft 
ymy ny-yf Hi it rnfem n-r ^ yfrrrt 
ntif it mf fem trt i 

vyy II 

1969-70 yf tt ifert ferny 


Eyy 

wiiitm 

syy 52,49,692^0 

yn yfeyt 

1,43,60,923^0 


fey 1,96,10,615^0 1,96,10,615 


^fefefey ir^T if %nfe ny-y % onfemry ant yyyfey 
fey 1 

yry III 

1970-71 y4 it ynyfen TTfeife fek ayy 

yrfetfe . . . 31,47,209Eo 

syy .... 43,71,500^0 

[rfo qyo feo 1601 6 / 3 / 71 -yy 0 — 3 ] 

feo smfen, 
ym yfey, yyo ysnj; 1 


fefefe 
1 yyy, i969fet 
yyfefeyy 1,5 6,25,027 yo 
y4%ferR 

Rtffefe^ 39, 8 5, 588Eo 



Sic. 3(H)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDTA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4363 


(Department of Labour and Employment 
ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 11 th May 1972 

8 . 0 . 2983 . — Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the management of Jotcjanki 
Khas Colliery of Messrs Banerjl Santan, Post Office 
Toposi, District Burdwan and their workmen In res- 
pect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudica- 
tion to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
Calcutta, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

“Whether the management of Jotejanki Khas Col- 
liery of Messrs Banerjl Santan, Post Office 
Toposi, District Burdwan are justified In stop- 
ping from work the following workmen, with 
effect from the 6th January, 19727 If not, to 
what relief are the workmen entitled? 

Schedule 


SI. 

No. 

Name 

Designation. 

I. 

Shrl Shankar Gope. . 

. Line Mistry. 

2, 

Shri Rabi Lachan Gope. 

, Trammer. 

3. 

Shri KhirOdh Bouri. . 

. E. Khalsai. 

4. 

Shrl Woman Mondal. 

, Chaprasi. 

5- 

Shri Badal MOndal. 

. Night Guard. 

6. 

S hri Choudhary Kora. 

. Trammer. 

7- 

Shri Arun Mondal 

, Pump Khalasi. 

18. 

9- 

Shri Rogan Mia. 

Shri Chootu Mia. 

. L. Mozdoor. 

, Pick Miner. 

£0* 

Shri Saffuruddin Mia. 

. Pick Mindr. 

II. 

Shri Latu Mia. 

Pick Miner, 

£2. 

Shrl Islam Mia. 

. Pick Minor, j 


[No. L/ 19 12/28/ 72-LRII.] 

(«T*T «tYt TYTteffTREl) 

srtfw 

fit 11 *T$, 1972 

tlTo 2983. -Tff; TTWIT TFT | ^ 
4MI44 snjg^Y if faPiftci fanfi if tn# spnff 
ti'dd gm ’Tffterff, ;r+'i < srrltf), ten 

% JHFH ir IDWT PlTI-te sflr ^FTTf % wf? 

qv tetter tenr P^hm ; 

ifrc TT: teYte TOT TFT foTTT T7 
%■ te* 47TRT TPTSTrfY f ; 

^lT>nr+' tenT SrfafTTK, 1947 (1947 

TT 14) ’iff 9TTT 10 ^ BWTT ( l) % W*? ft) JTTI 


sitct nteter tt tete teY teYYr etttt 
TO ten? m tft am 7 -t % state afte 

TTFEPC ’ftlTOnTT 51 fim; 'T, IfTOfiT, ^Ff ^TWteteT 
^ ter te?tel TTff | I 

"WT RTFT TTTf RRFT # TOteffite WIT TtPlter, 

sroar, artrteY, ten atenr % sma ctti 6 nteY, 
1 9 7 2 ir Pd H H-i Rid NnfwTTf »Ft TTT T TTlPiT ^TptftfTT | ? 
Tfr fiff, (ft miTR ter f ? 


wrtr 

TPT 

T'S'TiR 

l. 

utecter 

Hi Vi teteY 

2. 

nY teY tfEr 


3. 


smiY 

4. 

^ -s'IR 'I h U'd 

RTcnfr 

5. 

nY amaYra 

<lfflK<5FF 

6. 

MY MYarY jpftr 


7. 

MY tTOT RtW 

TFT <mkO 

8. 

MY Tterterr 

tJHo T44T 

9. 

«ff ten 


10. 

MYtm^teten 

fW hYff 

11. 

nT^tert 


12. 

MY terf 

tester 


[TteTtrnr 0/1912/28/72 -^vTo WT 0 - 2 ] 


New Delhi, the 20 th May 1972 

S.O. 2984. Whereas the Central Government Is of 
opinion that an Industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the management of Madhujore 
Colliery of Messrs Madhujore Coal Company Private 
Limited, Post Office Kajoragram, District Burdwan and 
their workmen in respect of the matters specified in 
the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise ot the powers conferred 
by clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudi- 
cation to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
Calcutta, constituted under section 7A of the said Act, 



4364 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 2f, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1$94 [Past II— 


Schedule 

“Whether the action of the management of Madhu- 
jore Colliery of Messrs Madhuiore Coal Com- 
pany Private Limited, Post Office Kaioragram, 
District Burdwan, in stopping Shri (Surajnath 
Singh, Mining Sirdar, from work with effect 
from the 21st June, 1971 and subsequently 
dismissing him from service with effect from 
the 2nd December, 1971. is justified? If not, 
to what relief is the workman entitled?” 

[No. L/19012/14/72-LRIL] 


20*Tf, 1972 

*fiTo 5TT o 2 984.-SE: fi vt>K dfr TPT ^ 

ft r^Pdfs'e fqwf % ft ftqq 
^=r srrste # qfsftr dr rf i wfj , tortt 

qrsfftnrw, fron qtror % wr ft 
•»>*r «t>i o % ftN - tpi f=Mi<t Pi'aHH ^ ; 

^0 4 lid ‘ %rsfVq d <d>i ( 'dan fqqi<; q>t rt uqPi' , md % 
fBTT fftftftfRT TORT qTCRfcr TOTSlcft | ; 

«Tcr: sut, gflalPbt; faro? qfftrdTOL 1947(1947^ 
14) ertt io^tdqyi<i(;) (q) smqmurfiM 
iff to 5 pfhr tor fir, totot tr^irr rim frorrq 
Rdtl ErfErfdiPT iff sil < I 8 % inTld iffer gx-sTlq < <t> K 

srfftTOW, TOTTOR amftro % fftlT fftffffM 

TO# I I 

EPPfft 

"tot wr Rspfr> tor# trtt # qq- 

#fftq#, RTTOTT, TOfUl UTR, fRBT TO4TR % qqq- 

ftTOT # # fftf , TO fftqqR # 2 1 TOT, 1971 

# TOR ft Tfro #r TO? ft 2 fePMT, 1 9 7 1 ft ftro % TO- 
TOT TOft # TO#?# RRlPdiT | ? Rfe # TOTO< 
fTOI ^FTT |TO?TT | ?” ' 

[W IJB - o/ 190 1 2/l 4/72— t[vro!nTo— 2] 


Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudi- 
cation to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
Calcutta, constituted under section 7A of the said 
Act. 

Schedule 

Whether the management of Ardhogram Khas 
Colliery of Mee=rq R. K. Apa.rwala and Sons 
Private limited, Post Office Ardhovram, 
Dist-ict Pankura. was instified in refusing 
emnlovment to Sarvashri Pam Shankar Roy, 
Supervisor, Sunil TTumar Paneriee, Attendance 
Clerk and tfestn Botmi. Guard ydtb effect 
from t*>e Rth Nnwriwr, 1071? Tf not. to 
what relief are these workmen entitled?” 

[N. L/19012/23/72-LRIL] 

KARNAIL SINGH. Under Secy. 

SR o sqTo 2ogg- ) TiT:^fhT TOR # TOT £ fTO SRft 

RTTRT TOlt ft fyryOn-x %qqfft qr> If qRtf gqTo %0 

!UnTBT tTq EfR THTT ffto # RRfhTPT 5 fT t T #f#T# 

TOTOTT , fUTT TTOT % qqq ft RTOq fTT## 

qVr Rd% TOTTO# % #q TT fftTOT fqflfrT I ; 

#r TT : RTR-t tut fTTTT dfl TOTfTfaH % 

fRTT fdfr^lcr dTOTT qfoftT qirTff t ; 

SPT • tht. q\#fTTT fTTOT uflTpurnr, 1 947 ( 1 947 
8R 1 4^ -TUT 1 0 d?V TT-TTU ( O % 5 fT TTTT 

qro wfquff TTT qg>T %ifl7 rtttt iTqTUTr 

gqy fqqT? dfr TTT qf-TfiTW dfV TP77-T % HSfVT itfS?T 
%rffq rpryuT rfVrf v ftr=f7 qftjro:T, TWfTT dft 

% fHir fdffHT TORI’ I* I 
5ITTft 

"qTT sqrTo gp TTTHT tt? rht qTffrfHc d>I 

groftlTT ’dTT T7t r TTfr. TORTT gR-flTnr. flfTI T % 
qj T tfro TPT Hfrft TUTTf-gv UT, TTTiTT, RfTO fRTT 

qrfl, irr : ?T jq-g qV -roff frfrmi qfr 8 qqtRf, 1971 

dirq ^ srt tort RTqtfroT ®tt ? nf? qff ?fr q 

fTOI SPTTtq % fdldTT-f ?” 

f[qo iTq o/l9012/ 23 / 7 2— f[Ho STTTo-2] 

to:rr , stto: Rfrq 1 


S O. 2985. — Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the management of Ardhog- 
ram Khas Col iery of Messrs R. K. Agarwal and Sons 
Private Limited, Post Office Ardhogram, District 
Bankura and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And Whereas the Central Government considers It 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, Therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 


(Department of Labour and Employment 
ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 5th June 1972 

S.O 2986. — Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
emnlovers in relation to the management of Singareni 
Collieries Comnanv Limited. Belampalli Division. Post 
Office Be'amnalH, (Andhra Pradesh) and their workmen 
in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 



Sec. 3(ju>] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 19f2/ASVINA 29, 1894 


43<55 


Now, therefore, in' exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 7 A and clause (d) of sub-secuon (I > of 
section 10 01 the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereoy constitutes an 
industrial Tribunal with Shn P. S. Ananth, as Presiding 
Officer with headquarter^ at Afzal Dodge, Tilak Road, 
Ramxote, Hyderabad-1, and refers the said dispute tor 
adjudication to the said Industrial Tribunal. 

Schedule 

a 

"Whether the action of the management of Singareni 
Collieries Company Limited, Beiampalli Divi- 
sion in redesignating Shri M. A. Karim as 
Assistant Draughtsman and placing him m the 
grade of Rs. 24a— 440 at the time 01 implement- 
ing the recommendations of the Centra. Wage 
.'dpard for Coal Mining Industry is justified? 
If not, to which grade and designation is he 
entitled and from which date ” 

[No. L/21012/6/72-LRII.] 
(fifi fife TferfiTT ffifiTfi) 

fifesr 

fit 5 fifi 19 72 

fifiofiTo 2y86-T5C fesfe (ittR fi# TIT | fe 

vnififiar # ffiffifeEs fefifit % tit Si ffifitfif TFtfrr- 
ntfe fifififit ferftfefe, ficiwimfr sttft, fii+fic thpt- 
qTwft (fiFfififel) % fifif-ffifi# ffifimfe fife 

gfi% finferfet % fife fifetffifi fefiifi fefifiRTfi 1 1 

fife fifi: %fefe TWIT fififi fefiTfi fi# •fiTfife'fififi % 

frTTT ffififarfi fi/TfiT fiTSfife RHfifir | ; 

3RTT:, fifi, fiWfifil fefiifi fiffiffififi, 1947 ( 1947 
1 4 ) arm 7-fi> fife urn 1 o fifi TTciTTi ( 1 ) % < 3 ^ 
(fi) 5TTT SRtT fiffefil fifi fifitfi TTfi ftj, fefiTfi RTfifiT 
trd^ilTT fifelfw fiffiTTW fifed fiTTdt | ferfe 
fiWffe fiffififel fit fife rr/jo STfiffi $Vf, ferfififi ^fifimfi 
UWT fiTfi fefifiT TIf, TTfiffiT, |?rTI4R- 1 ^tfil fife Tfid 
fefiTfi fifi W fifeTffifil fitfiTTH, fill sfilfifefififi, 
% fepr fafiffej TFTcft i l 

"fifiT ffifitfil fififafiTfe . fifiRfit tWTIwft 

SffiTfi % STfifiJcm fill fifififil Hfifi Tdlfi TH'-PcIT feUfi 
fififi fit# fifi fwfTHT fi>T fififilffid fiTT HRfi, fir ^fio tjo 

fi/tfe fifi, R^Ififii fTfiifiRfiR fi> <5fi R <JR. fifi-TIIfifi fiife 
245-440 fififi T To fi Tfifi fifi «Mqr 'firfilffifi 
| f fife fif r dt ferr drrra d mr fifi t ife fi> ^arr ^ i" 

|#° t?do/21012/6/72-q;do dTTo 2j 

New Delhi, the 9th June 1972 

S.O. 2987. — Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that- an industrial dispute exists between the 
emp.oyers in relation to tne management ox Madhujore 
Colliery of Messrs Madnujore Coal Company Private 
Limited, Post Office Kajoragram, District Durdwan and 
their workmen in respect of the matters specified in 
the Schedule hereto annexed; 


And whereas the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute tor adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause (dj ot sub-secuon (1) ot section lu of me 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 194/), the Cen- 
tral Government hereby reiers tne said dispute for ad- 
judication to the Central Government Industrial Tri- 
bunal, Calcutta, constituted under section 7A of the 
said Act. 

Schedule 

“Whether the management of Madhujore Colliery 
of Messrs Madnujore Coal Company Private 
Limited, Post Office Kajoragram, District 
Burdwan is justified in stopping trom work 
Shri Ramlaknan Shaw, Mining, Sirdar, with 
ettect trom tne lbth November, 1971? It not, 
to what relief is the workman entit-ed?” 

INo. L/ 19012/13/ 72-LRII.] 
fewfT, 9 1972 

\ fifio mo298 7.-ficr:%fefeTTfi>R^TTfi|felfE^ 

3TPTg- fi fefafesz fefifit % fife ^ fiTf# fiffife 
fifm firpfer srfefife fefefe fifi Rsjfife, finffer#, ti^tt, 
fiwftrr firfi, fferr fifeR % sfetj# ferferfifi nfe 
fi ififiifel f % fife ^ ?ffetffifir fefiifi fearfilfi | ; 

fife fid : fefife RTfiRT dfid fefiTfi fill 'fiTfifefififi % 

fem frfifcr firm fiTSfilfi nfiHdt I ; 

sin:, nr, fiferrffifir fefiifi nfefefifi' 1947 (1947 

fifi 14) fiftsJTTT 10fi# TfiSTRI (l)*«V(V) JRT 
SffitT Hlffidfil fifi fifitfi firm Jtr. firrsrfi fiTfiTT ^fifiSTTT 

3fin fefiifi fi# Tfid nfefefin fit sun 7 — fi< fir um-f firm 
TTfifiT fitfitffifir fitsifiTfi, fimfimr fit ffiififefififi 
% fferr ffeftm firrat f 1 

“fifil fiTT# fifsfrr firm finfifit fil^fiJ ferffiifi agf 

fiffitc firtfnfiTt, fiifirfiT firfitnam, femr 
fififim % afiarom fifi, nl tw m, 
firffefi ferrnT fit, 16 fifi-rr, 1971 

t fifi t TfefiT ffiTfitffiW | ? fife fi^T , # 

fitfiK fen sr^afe fin gfifiTT | ? " • 


[afifiT^To /l 9012/1 3 / 72 -t[no fiTTo IX] 

New Delhi, the 13th June 1972 

S.O. 2988. — Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in reialiuii to tne management oi Bast 
Bnuggatdia Doineiy ot Messrs uhaiat wumug Coal 
Limned, Post (Juice JUa.ia, uistnct Dnaiiuaa, ana meir 
workmen in respect oi me maneis specniea in tne 
Schedule hereto annexed; 

And Whereas the central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute tor adjudication; 

Now, theretore, in exe.cise Or the powers comerred 
by clause (d) of suo-section (1) ot section 10 ot me 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 oi 194/), tne cent. at 
Government hereby reier* the said dispute for adjudi- 
cation to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal 




THE GAZE1TE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASV1NA 29, 1894 


[Part II— 


4366 


(No. l)m Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the 
said Act. 

Schedule 


lion to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
Jabalpur, constituted under section 7 A of the said Act. 

Schedule 


“Whether the action of the management of East 
Bhuggatdih Colliery of Messrs Bharat Coking 
Coal Limited, Post Office Jharia. District 
Dhanbad, in stopping from work Shri All 
Hussain, Haulage Engine Khalasi, with effect 
from the 15th October, 1971. is justified? If 
not, to what relief Is the workman entitled?’’ 


[No. L/2012/7/72-LRII.] 
13 197 2 

ttr'i'ui 

STTo 2e86.-4B: (TORT # TR % far ?(R 

^rrag- t FtF-rfo^ fmrf % m r 4-fa rtr 

farfaifa mET#fa Tilf-RfFl, 5TTNT flfRT, 

fap?TT Udof 14, % % RRS faRT'Rpi ifYl "3R% 

Rnfafiff % #4 fRE Sfcfrfw fw £ ; 

5rfk R(T: (TORT RRT fw? 4?t RRFRHRR % 

F(EI fMfPtET TT*TT d ilS-ffa (Thai "ft I" ; 

WT:, ITT, sfafffaR fsRR SlftfpRR, 1947 ( 1 947 
«FT 14 ) ^ 9 TTT 10 ^ TTOIU ( l) ^ m (r) SFT 

srr Rfmff tt sfafa ^ fo, %Bffa tok ot^ri 
fa^R rrr wFafwiT # snrr 7^r % *rfffa Rfor 
%Rffa tor RkfrfaT (pn i) ?rrr 

4i fair FeT^RT TTcft | I 

“m #(1# rto TlfTR dftdr FRfaife, # RmflR 

drllwcr, WR wFrT, falRT STREET % SREPRTOT #, »jft 
*RfV ^Ffh RR 15 !W4<^K, 1971 

% 4RR % dft RTRTfRR | ? Rfc ^ R^f, 

(it *<i4«w <. foo R^(ffa rr i ^ ?" 


[ro ^ 0 / 2012 / 7 / 72-^0 ?rrTo-2] 


S.O. 2989. — Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an Industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the management of Rewa 
Coalfields Limited, Post Office Dhanpuri, District Shah- 
dol (Madhya Pradesh), and their workmen in respect of 
the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause '(d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudica- 


“Whether the management of Messrs Rewa Coal- 
fields Limited, Post Office Dhanpuri, District 
Shahdol (Madhya Pradesh) was justified in 
terminating the services of Shri Maniram, 
Shotfirer, with efiect from the 23rd June, 1972? 
If not, to what relief Is the workman entitled?” 

[No. L/22012/22/72-LRIL] 

RR° STfo 2989.-TR: %rjfcr TOR ift TR $ 
far $ fafafais: farfaf % Rf* if 

farfa^T, TTTNT SPTjFr, faffiT mfrRT (RET 

st^rt) % % (rwra FRRfam TERrFf % 

RtR (T^ TffafrfaPTT fw? falRER 

*ftr r(t; trir (irm; srr Frtt qFt RpTFT n fRR 

% fanr faffarn *ptri Riwffa (rnipfy $; 

3TT;, SR, ^Tfrfarr faRR ^FafaRiT, 1947 (l947 
m 14) «Ft ?ET 10 4ft" 3WRT ( l) WK (<T) fnj 
5T4R TiTfaffaf TT STTfa TOR ^fKIRT 

RRT fa-Tr4 TT 3W RftTfa’RiT Rt ETRT 7-R % Rtffa fife?! 

(TORT RtRtfaT - m, i, vRRTJT *ffY RplfaiRR 
% far<T faffalR TTdV I I 

RT R(T(f far FrFRT?, 3WRT 

(RRST^r) %■ jpr 23^R, 19 72 

R RRhCT RTT TiRTT qff apt (RETT 4TOT RRt- 
Frr sit ? rF? r^T, (it qufRrc Ftr «R(ffa tt pm 

t?” 


[R54T 0 - 22012 / 22 / 72-^Ro *Tp:o- 2 ] 


New Delhi, the 14 th June 1972 


S.O, 2990. — Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the management of North 
Keshalpur Colliery of Messrs North Keshalpur Colliery 
Company Private Limited Post Office Katrasgarh, Dis- 
trict Dhanbad, and their workmen in respect of the 
matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 


And, whereas, the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer tHe said dispute for adjudication; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by dause (d) of sub-section (l) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudica- 
tion to the Central Government Industrial' Tribunal 
(No i) Dhanbad, constituted under section "7A of the 
said Act, 



Sec, 3(ii)J 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVlNA 29, 1894 4367 


Schedule 

“Whether the action of the management of North 
Keshalpur Colliery of Messrs North Keshalpur 
Colliery Company Private Limited, Post Office 
Katraggarh, District Dhanbad in slopping 
Sarvasnrl Dharani Mallik, Surface Trammer 
and Lilu Mallick, Underground Trammer from 
duty with effect from 4he 8th November, 1971 
is justified? If not, t,o *vvhat relief are the said 
workmen entitled?” 

[No. L/2012/25/72-LRIIO 


5T$ f?55Tf, 14 1972 

apTo Wo 2990. -Wf: TWIT TFT | 

fe tints wjg/fr Jr faifafw faepri % Jr wet 
^ nfTETjr wfaprd wwft srkfe ft tTt 
•F tfwrtr, ttw: wrawr?, % wrw Jr 

fastwl’ «fk tt% t4wti % nTt srtefrPnF 

fwrra fcwFi 

•d\x wr: TTUFTT TW fddTd WPlfwfaT 

^ farq; Prefer dfUTT w®dTd wrsRfr 

WT:, wr, faWT TlfafaWT, 1947v ( 1947 

W 14) #tnw 10 sprTTHHT ( 1 ) % WNr (d) JUTTI^ 
Tllftwff 41 TdTd W jrr, %^f3T TTTR n^STO UW 
tdWT TET srfsrfdWT 4ft «TRT 7-T ^ wftd dfef 
Wiffa BTdiK ’H'teftf'FF ?rftrdlUd (wir l) TON Sfft 
WjUlfd^Idd % fw[ fddfcr sRfft I I 

"dw wrft dt«T ^Wvpji qftfwrft wrfr fJrfft- 
qft df«r wYf%cr€r, -ukku^, farm 

Hd9FT % TWWPPPd W TINT WIRT fifuPP, TRWT 
jet *fk sffaj; wit mfti wt s fwi, 

1 97 1 Sr dwr % Tftnft 4 ft wwrr|t wrfttfar | ? dfc d^r 
fft dW did+K fan W^ftd % iJWlTT | ?” 

[do 0 — 2012/2 5/72/CJdo WT 0 - 2 J 

New Delhi, the 15th June 1972 

S O. 2991. — Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the management of Selected 
Fatka Colliery, Post Office Nirsachatti, District Dhan- 
bad, and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed. 

And whereas the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudi- 
cation to t’le Central G^vX-rnment Industrial Tribunal 
(No. 1), Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the 
said Act. 


Schedule 

“Whether the action of the management of Selected 
Fatka Colliery, Post Office Nirsahatti, Dis- 
trict Dhanbad, in stopping from work Shri 
Subash Prasad Sinha, Munshi of the colliery, 
with effect from the 20th November, 1971. Is 
justified? If not, to what relief is the said 
workman entitled?” 

[No. L/2012/38/72-LRII.] 


df fefr, 15 TJT 1972 


Wo Wo 2 99 1— WT: ETWT 4ft TFT $ ft? $RJr 

dMidi wjg^fr Jr f=i fa few. fwff % mft ft, fJEkti ww 

dftfwrfV, TPFTT fa ft) I h £t, faRTT SFTWgT % 5JWT % 

fa < i1'4 Vt ftftr Td% mfwif % 41h tj’fi fwrnr fa«i- 

rr 

*rk Tel: ftpftr ttttt to fwrrc w fjnwrfftftwr 

% fwT fftf ftr?r wttt wspftr wrfffft $ ; 

wr : wr, sfcftfw fawr wffarkwnr, 1947 1947 

W 14) WTT 10 ^ WTRl ( l) ^ ws (T) TRT 

tut vrfawrf w TTk wpwt 

3W fTTK dft 3W ^iftlfaWT RITT 7^ % wfk dfST 
1U.TTT sfteftfJpF *rffFfiWl (rsW l) SfdWT dit 
fdRlMw i ^ fwtj fa^fWT WP#r I I 


"wt ftrSpicT mw wfad'D, wwrr famdJV, 
ftm wiw ^ srwrwT qSV, dJrfwrft 
%ijvfr, ^ gwr WTK 'FT 26 TRT<, 1971 
Jr WR Jr TtTTJJ # TFITT^ -4 141 fad % ? 
irf?T d^Y, rfr i3w wJm fwr *r^fr«r w 
?wt:| ?" 

[RW l[T/ 2012/38/ 72— (fToTrDo— 2 ] 


S.O. 2992. — Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the management of Industry/ 
West Ena Colliery belonging to East Industry Colliery 
Company (Private) Limited, Post Office Dhansar, Dis- 
trict Dhanbad and their workmen in respect of the 
matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 


And whereas the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dipute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in' exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section lOof the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudi- 
cation to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal 
(No. 1), Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A Of thO 
said Act. 



4368 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER. 21, 19^2/ASVINA 29, 1894 [Paht ft— 


Schedule 

“Whether the action of the management of Industry 
/West Ena Colliery belonging to East Industry 
Colliery Company (rrbale) Limited, Post 
Office Dhansar, District Dhunbad, in not poing 
wages to Shale Pickers in accordance with the 
recommendations of the Wage Board for Coal 
Mining Industry is justified? It not, to what 
relief are the workmen entitled and from 
which date?’’ 

(No. L/2012/28/71-LRII.) 

Wo WTo 2992 -EE : EElfE TRER EJ TFT |fE 3 BE 

yBiyiff Jr fEm % ett Jr EtfEE cl 

«pppfr t (hrte) M'jkz et set wfanff, $te- 

^WT-W EET T, fw STEER % SEE E B<=EE fEERpEt WtT EE% 
E#ERt % sfH <?E sftatf*R> fEETE fEEETE | ; 

wVt EE %RfE HWT EFT tETR ET RTEfEEEE % 

fMffwicr WET ETaJffFT EES<ft | ; 

WE:, WE, sftsfrfEE fEER wRErTEW, 1 947 ( 1 947 
«FT 14 )^EnRT lOEjEEERT ( i)t? ETS (W) ERTEEE 

t frfwqT w EtfEi -eft erte e ter cte^rt bee f fit 

Et wfwRm Et yTTI 7 -E E W JfE ERE ERIE ETER 
WWfW WftJETE (E-Wr 1) STEER ET RrEfEEEE E 
fat{ ftEfolE ETEt | I 

“wr ^RjT EtrEETf ERET (dREE) 

Ef SErETtHEtT, 1 TEET, EEER, tEEl VEER 

jnrtt E«'E ET, ETEET REE tf EH E IE ’ TEE Ef J ET lEfiL 
fTEi % W-JETT E 1 E REE ET E,iE EEEiE E ETE El Et 4 * 
ET$T HTEttEE | ? EU EjjTf El' HER TEE ITT E 4 k 
fEE ERTR 4 $EER | l” 


[EWf tT™fo/2012/2 8/71-^Eo WR-2J 


New Delhi, the 19 th June 1972 

S.O. 2993. — Whereas the industrial disputes specified 
in the Scnedule hereto annexed are pending beiore Shri 
Gopal Narain, Sharma, Presiding Officer, Industrial 
Tribunal, Rajasthan, Jaipur; 

And whereas the services of the said Shri Gopal 
Narain Sharma, are no longer available; 

And whereas for the ends of justice and convenience 
Of parties, the said disputes should be disposed of with- 
out further delay; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 7A, and sub-section (L) of section 33B of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1147 (14 of 1947), the Cen 
tral Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tri- 
bunal with Shri Mohd. Yuqoob Khan as the Presiding 
Officer, with headquarters ut Jaipur, withdraws the 
proceedings in relation to the said disputes and the 
ppplleatlctoS under the proviso to subjection (2) of 


section 33 and section 33 A of the said Act and arising 
out of the said disputes, from Shri Gopal Narain 
Sharma and transfers the same to Shri Mohd. Yaqoob 
Khan Presiding Officer, Industrial Tribunal, Jaipur, for 
the disposal of the said proceedings with the direction 
that the said Tribunal shall proceed with the said pro- 
ceedings from the stage at which they are transferred 
to it and ciispose of the same according to law. 


Schedule 


SI. 

Parties to the dispute. 

Reference Number 

.Mo. 


and the date 0 f the 



Industrial Tribunal 

I 

2 

3 


1. Employers In relation to M/s. Bika- No. 24(66)/68-LFI, 

ner Gypsums Limited, Bikaner dated 29-8-1968. 

andtheirworkmen 

2. Employers in relation to M/a. N<>. 24(26)/66-LRI, 

Bikaner Gypsums Ltd., Bikanor dated 27-6-1966. 
and their workmen. 

3. Employers in relation to M/a. No. 24(33)/67*LRI 

Bikaner Gypsums IEJ., Bikaner dated 1J-12-1967. 
and their workmen. 

4. Employers in relation to M/s. No. 24 (35),'67*LRI 

Bikaner Gypsums Ltd., Bikaner dated 18-12.1967. 
and the.'r workmen. / * 

5. M/s. Jaipur Udhyog Ltd., Saw a i- N o.36(33)/69-LRIV 

Madhopur and their workino. datod 27-10-1969. 

6 . M/s. Bhiwaraanl Company, Bhil- N >. 24(62) ’69-LRIV 

wara and their workmen. dated I2 : ii-I969. 

7. M/s. Bhil wara and Company, Bhii- No. 24(63)/69-LRIV 

wara and their workmen. dated 12-11-1969. 

8. M/s. Bhilwaraan.i Company, Bhil- No. 24 (3 6)/ 69-LRIV 

and their workmen. dated 12-H-1969, 

9. M/s. Jaipur Minerals De velopmont No,36(4i)/69-LRIV 

Syndicate Ltd., Jaipur and their dated 25-11-1969. 
workmen. 

ID. M/s. Jaipur Udhyog Ltd., Sawai- No. I2 (i)/ 7 o-LRIV. 
Madhopur and their workmen. dated 2-2-1970, 

it. M/s. Bikner Gypsum Ltd., Bika- No. 24(77)/69-LRIV 
ner and thoir workmen. dated 26.3.1970 

12. M's. Bikaner Gypsum Ltd,, Bika- No. 3o(3)/7o-LRIV. 

ner and their workmen. dated 12-5-1970. 

13. Mohammed & Sons Gypsum Con- No. 24(76) /69-LRIV 

tractors Jodhpur and their work- dated 309-1970. 
men. 

14. Shri API l Krim Stone Contractor, No. I2(25)/7 oLRIV. 

Mojak Store Kota and their dated 27-11-1970. 

workman. 

15. M/s. Bikaner Gypsum Ltd., Bikaner No. 3o(7)/70-LRIV. 

and their workman. dated 19*2-1971. 

i5. Shri Sultan Akthyar Anwar Stone L-290i2(3)/7i-LRIV 
Limited Stone Mine, Ramganj- dated 6-4-71. 
maodi and their workmen. 

17. M/s. Jaipur Mineral Development L-2901 1(9)/ 71-LRIV 
Synaicate Ltd., Jaipur and dated 11-5-1971. 

their workmen. 

M/s. Bikaner Gypsum Lid., Bikaner L-250ii(3)/7i-LRIV 
and th.tr workmen. dated 33*7*1971. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


IJ. Rsiasthau Aulornte Power Project L-290ii(25V77-LRr 
Kota and their workmen. dated 3i-8-i97 T - <: 

20. Tungs-ton Pariyofna Kheti Ki . L-101'47') '70-LRTV, 
Bhankhri Degana and their work- dated 3I-8-I97 1 - 
men. 


2. 9-3-^970 


3- 9-3-1970 


Taipur UdyogLtd., Vs. Shri Rames- 
Swaimadhopur shwar. 

Do. Vs. Shri Chiran- 

jilal. 

[L-290ii(30)/72-LRIV.] 


ar. West Sakhat Labour Contractor L-29012C26') 71-LRIV 
Co-operative Society Sukhat, dated 25-10-1971. 
and their workmen. 

Sh r i SuPau Aktyvar Mme Owner L-200T2/28') Gt-LRI 
Sathulkhedi New Voltage. Ram- dated 20-10-1971. 
ganimandi and their workmen. 

ij. M^s. Taiour Minerals Development L-290T2C2tV7T-LRIV 
Syndicate Ltd., Jaipur and their dated 11-11-1971 
workmen. 

24. Western Bengal Coal Rel ts Linv- L-290Tif 4 o) 7T-LRIV 
ted, Khetri Copper Proiect,Khe- dated I4-I2-I97 1 - 
trinagar and their workmen. 

4J. Mohammed & Sons GvosumCon- L-24ot2^2V7t-LRIV 
tractor, Nagpur and their work- dated 28-I2-I97 1 * 
men. 

a 6 . Tugstone Mine Project, Degana, L-290T2(6) '7T-LRTV. 
a nd their workmen. dated 3t-t2-i97 I - 

317. Mis Ta ! nur M'nerls Development No. a-tfiVdy-LRI. 

Syndicate PWvare Ltd., Jaipur dated 21-10-1967. 
and their workmen. 


Particulars nf the applications 'complaints pending before the In- 
etustrialTrib’inalRa\asthan,Jaipiir under Section 33 A of Industrial 

Qisputts Act 1947. 


SI. Date of Application Parties to the dispute 

no. 

Applicant. 

Opposite Party 

1. 9-5-7969 

. Shri Ram Nath Singh 

Vs. Ta’oUr Udh- 
yog Lt Swa- 
imadhopur. 

a. 7-3-1970 

, Shri Matadeen Singh 

Vs. Do. 

3. 7-12-1970 ' 

. Shri Ramzan 

Vs. Mohd. an^ 
Sons, Gypsum 
Contractor 
Jodhpur. 

4. 14-6-1977- 

, Shri Sukhdev Singh 

Vs.Phalodi Quar- 
ry Ja’pur UdhyOg 
Ltd., Sawaima- 
uhopur. 

5. 14-6-1971 

Shri Surjeet Singh 

Vs. Do." 

6 . 14-6-1971- 

. Shri Gangoliya 

Vs. Do. 

7. 14-6-1971 

. Shri Deva. 

Vs. Do." 

8. 14-6-1971 

. Shri Devi Ram 

Vs. Do. 

PirticUl-irs of Miscellaneous Cases under Section 33(2)(b) of the 

Industrial Disputes Act, 1947- 

I 2 

3 



T. 18-1-1969 . M's. B’kaner Gypsum Vs. Shri Nathu 

Ltd., Bikaner. Singh. 


tff fowt, 19 W, 1972 

sfrr°srr<> 2 990. — w: w 3 wwi # fafofo g 
^rV^frfdprr fws, m gfom 3Rm sprf, TteRffo sr f g wfy 
qtertfw eRlltn tdpfstr, % best Nfow 

la - 

i " srh: w: BfaTN rtfr wr* q# font 

f ; 33: 3W fW3 W ?3T3 % 3^93 q^TRlf 

pfo gfwr % four ufk rh fitor fsnrr faq?T3 T nrt 

|Nrff n; 5 

^ set:, set, srtertfrrcr fwrc Rfgfwr, 1947(1947 
qrr 14) qrl stilt 7-dr srk etrt 3 iw ^wrarnr ( 1) 
STTT SiNtT wfocFTf 3T 33fo afT# frr, fcfl3 RT4rR qa yrt t 
^fr^ftf^RTr ^rfsiRrTaT TrfecT % ftsm % wfaW’Cf 

>5ft RtgTR? W? m |T3, fol3 qrT 3WOT sppjL ^flT, 

sft tfJqTvT ERm 33T % gw fWTCf gWSTftrfwr# 7 
9TT133 qft warni ( 2) % ?fk smr 33 % wift 
?rk rw fwnfT % gswsntw serfs* wfgTffpff 

qrt wTpm | sfh. g?f fwNd- % for# sff rff* 

st, qteTsffor qrfirqrrrf, sftertfogr RfRqrLN qprjr, qrt w 
frfosr % m f«TRFcTfcT qrTcfV | for gw sfawwr «rt* 
?jpt qrr#qT%rt g-rff wr # qr#3T forsr w t g% 
f«rr wrfocr qrt 3 TTT 51^: foftr % writ w qrr fron qr^trri 




3>B 

fwre % 7NER 


#W 


™ w®n hk flitra 

1 1 

2 

3 


1 . ntt ^qnfor fsrRw ?fwr 24 ( 66 ) /es-^o 
forpT^^, ^forfor^ iTRI 5^-131^23-8-1968 
fotfrwr g-rfor drEwr 1 


2. #33 qtirfoy fow SW24(26)/66 ttvTo 

forfot^, wfonfo?: % rw ' stit-i 3iriw 27 - 6 - 

foif t dd T qfk gq% qrwny 1 1966 

3 . # 3 # #fon#7: for^mr gw 24(33)/67- 

forfor^L #fon tt # 3 cwr tt^ro trrr-i crrffor 

fdNld'P gq% 333R I 15-12-1967 


4370 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[Part II-* - 


■ IT— : .. -- _ ; — — 

1 2 3 


4. ^ W%T fijWW " 24{ 35) /67— 

*fWrorr ft wra qro] wro-i wfta 

sflr 3TJTWT 1 18-12-1967 

5 . ■forcf wnr ^ftrf^rPr- qwT 36(33)/69- 

2$, wnf wsrl^ sftr tt % q$ro wro-4, tt(1« 

'Vjfarc I 27-10-1969 

0. to# tftsrWST tW9f WWfT, W3TT 24{ 62) /69— 
HV^rTTfr *ftr ^ 0 % 4ofwr 1 ta^ro wro-4, waiter 

12-11-1969 

7 . tftawrr qnr wwft, tfsw 24(63)/e9- 

tftaww ttit ^nf^R 1 qsro wro-4, wftor 

12-11-1969 

8. ^Tfrirrq^WWft, tfw 24(36)/69- 

v\x rrf +4 +k 1 qro wto- 4, wfo ar 
12-11-1969 

9. 4wf WTJT fwrTW fft- tfw 36(4l)/ 69— 

write fafites, qro wro-4, sifter 

WTfT 5fk wtenT I 25-11-1969 

10- WTqTT^fTfwbr tfWT 12(l)/70- 

Itete *fl'tfl^ < 'tfte T4% qn 0 WT 0— 4, 01 0<a 

WAPITI 2-2-1970 

1 1. 4*1$ *ften%T fWTW frO, Tfaw 24(77)/69- 

4't4>T'te ^T °ti -A -4* I <» I 07T 0 WTO— 4, 

26-3-1970 

12. ftefteT f^rTPT P t 0, tfOW 30(3)/70- 

afarte <! 4i4+"i <. i q*ro wro— 4, oi Cl<* 

12-5-1970 

13. qt^Fir q’js irt fwmr ritew 24(?6)/69- 

4^?^, tWjt tfk wt% 4tf- qsro wto- 4, wfter 
WT I 30-9-1970 

14. >ifrw*pr w<K tete rtew i2( 25 ) / 70 — 

q^ro wro-4, qrfter 

wr%wtenri 27 - 11-1970 

1 s. afteter termi fteftr- rtew 30 (7)/7o- 

tr, alterter ?!>?; 4 t4wt i 1 qro wro-4, qtefar' 

19-2-1971 

10. qWR WTTWT WITT q^f-29012 ( 3) /7 1— 

tete fafaTS tete WPT, ' TqTO WTO— 4 , mfta 
nwnr wter ?rte wr% 6 - 4-71 
t4wt 1 

~ ■ — "«m> 


1 2 3 


17 . 4wf wrqrfwu^riwT- qtf -29011 ( 9 )/ 7 1 — 

w ftrr%T, Mh^t, ttjt qro wro- 4 , siftw 
sfTT4%wterTTI !>;..., ; 11-5-1971 

18. Tfftf ^Wl%T f^FTR-fvrfT- qT-25011 ( 3)/7 1— 
gg £r, *fqpT%T ?ftT TS% W1WT I qHO WTO-4, Sifter 

23-7-1971 

19. TT4TWT TTTW% W W- qT0-29011 ( 2 5 ) / 7 1 

srteT ?ffT T-# wterr i qro wro-4, arrftor 
31-8-1971 

20 . TWTT qfTJTtWTT *tcft T^TT 1 0 ( 47 ) /70-qH0 

qP3TfrJTRT ?lk wf^TTl WTO-4, TfT^T 

31-8-1971 

21- W0TT?rSr?T ^*3T q^r-29012 ( 2 6 ) / 7 1 

' vt-wT^fer ifrumrY qwcr, q«o wro-4, qrtrtr 

^^TH%*PWfTTT I /. f 25-10-1971 

22- «Ft ^TTTT W5TWT Wl^T qT-29012 (28)/7l 
iftTT WWT'i^t 'T f®T?l«f, q^O WTO— 4, fll'Tl*® 

rm r o T ttVt tt% witht i 20 - 10-1971 

23 . Twf wiqT fwnnr ttrr- qr-29012 ( 2 1 )/7 1 

frryt^r, lrrf4rfe, wtjt q^o wro— 4 , difluf 

wVt TT% 4HTTTT I 11-11-1971 

24. qw— 2901 1 / 40 / 71 — 
frPityj^TftTrTTHT^TT, q^ro wro-4, w^r 
t^frWR5frTTT%^4wr I 14-12-1971 

25. flftjpwr q*¥ HW, q5r0-25012 (2)f7l 

qffrer, HI'!gT ^fTTTT% q^TO WTO-4, t1lO« 

4 >H'^'fT I ’, 2 8 — 1 2— 1971 

26. S 4f 3 T TTFlTiW, ^nW q^-29012 ( 6)/7 1— 

ifK TT% T^'+TT I ,q^TO WT0-4, 

31-12-1971 

27. '4T4< fwTTTT TT- HMT 24(l)/67— 
Pr?t%T rirti Mr- qro WT 0 - 1 , w^sr 

§ i, WOJT iflr wfwr I 21-10-1967 


Sec. 3(H)] 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/AS VINA 29, 1894 


4371 


srftefrfw fwr TfafWT, 1947 4?) 717) 33^P % 
sr'hftPR) 7fa4R7, ttrrtot, 

% 7717 TfTTT 7TtT7 77) I FRTTTTt 47 «tVt I 


%m t. irr^TT-Ta' 
# Trdrr 


f77T7 % 7747T 
*7^741 fTRpf) 7ST 


1 9-5-69 

2 7--3-70 

3 7-12-70 

4 1 4— 6—71 


5 14-6-71 

6 14-6-71 

7 14-6-71 

8 14-6:71 


*sfr WIRT fT^TTTR 

sftTTTPftR f7?77T7 
p -f) T7D7 77T7 


«ft fw 77T7 


«f) TTRfal fTpJ 7717 
«ft 7T)fw 7717 
«sft %7T 7717 

# MtTPT 77T7 


7RPJT 7717 
fTfats, TTlf- 
TTTtj?: I 

-77177— 

7t^77 OW 
77, fj| L 77 

717- 

3* ' 

TiMM) wff 
775T 7*1)7 
Pff777, 77li- 
TrsiPp: 1 

-77177 — 
-77(77 — 
-77177 — 
—77) 77 — 


tf)7tf7T f7717 t)faf777 ) 1947 4?) tTlTT 33 ( 2 ) ( 7 ) j 
% 77)7 W77 7177) 77 Rf)TT 


1 18-1-69 477 7)77^7 7717 ?ft 47 

fTW f7f777, 

*f)47?lT I 


2 9-3-70 ^TTf 7757 7717 sft 7r*)777 

77)7 f7f7^7, 

77lf 7T7)f7 I 


3 9-3-70 


77)47 — 77)7 «f) f7^7)717 


^T-2901l(30)/72-lT7o stiro 4 ] 


S.O. 2994. Whereas the Central Government is ol 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers In relation to the management ol East 
Bhuggatdlh Colliery ol Messrs Bharat Coking Coal 
Limited, Post Ollice Jnuna, District Dhanbad and their 
workmen in respect ol the matters specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers it 
desirable to reter the said dispute lor adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clauso (d) of sub-section (1) ol section 10 of. the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudica- 
tion to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
(No. 1), Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the 
said Act. 


Schedule 

1. "Whether the action of the management of East 

Bhuggatdih Colliery of Messrs Bharat Coking 
Coal Limited. Post Office Juana. District Dhan- 
bad in stopping from work for Shri Kudrat 
Mian, Winning Engine Khalasi with eifect from 
the 17th October, 1971 is justified? II not to 
what relief the said workman is entitled?” 

2. "Whether the action of the management of East 

Bhuggatdih Colliery of Mosers Bharat Coking 
Coat Limited, Post Office Jharia, District Dhan- 
bad in stopping from work to Shrl Shamtar 
Ram General Mazdoor witn effect from tne Ust 
October, 1971 is justified? If not to what relief 
is the said workman entitled?” 

[No. L/2012/16/72-LRIL] 


77 o ?JTo 2984. — 77: %#T 7<+|< 4?) 4J7 
f% ?77 77T75 7^7) 7 fafTf^ss f777T % TTt 7 ^77 
7177 %tf47T 477 fofTTT 7) 77772)^ %t fr PTR), 

TT4PRR wfXTT, fTTT 777T7 % WST 7 TT7 tdRITT) 
5f)T 77% 47477 % ^)7 tf)%tf74f tw7 f77717 

I ; 

, Jm 77: %^St7 TOR 747 f%TfT fiUdMiH 

% fTH (7?ftld 4177) TTSifpT 77771 | ; 


5)7:, 77, )t 7T7 TffaPldB, 1947 (1947 

47 14) # 7KT 10 %) 77UT4T ( l) % 7TI7 ( 7 ) 5TTT 
757T 7f%r7t 47 77)7 4R7 ftf, %7)t7 TOR l^d^KI 
747 f77T7 7) 747 7%T777 %) SORT 7-41 % mf)7 7fe7 
7)7t{77 TfdTRR, (777) l) 77717 7) 71l7i7 I J f 77 
% foil f7fft)7 4R7) | I 

1. "tTT 77$ 7TT7 4$f%7 4?t7 fiffpdif %) ^7 
'*J77dfl([ 4$f77<), 7I4>7< ?)fw, Frol 777T7 % JRTJ 
RW %) 7) 57T7 fiTTf, 7T^f77 ^77 TRRft 47, 17 
74cJ7R, 1 97 1 % 477 4R% 7 7141% %) TR^TT^) ? 7 TT lPdR 
| ? 7f7 7^), 7) 747 +7+K f%7 ?T4[7)7 47 ^TRIR 

I?" 




43 7^ 


THE GAZETTE Of INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 19)2/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Past II- 


2. "wt yrEsr fain ty yft 

yrtfwd, fwr sprtt % trror- 

*T'W5T yft, -Sfl SEFT TTH, IfRH Ha ?t yrt, 31 ypr^yr, 
1 97 1 Jr TOyT % TEfiJ' yft ^iTqn^t' RWfpTO ^ ? Tfe 
<T|f, at tht ynfyrn; fy^r >,hht yr ^tt | ? ” 


[ifo TT5T-2012/l6/72-HHo HKo-2] 


New Delhi, the 24th June 1972 

S.O. 2995. — Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers In relation to the management of Satalkhedi 
Lime Stone Quarray of M/s. Raj Flooring Stone Com- 
pany, Ramgunjjmandi and their workmen in respect 
of tne matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 7A and clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 
10 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 (14 of 1947), 
the Central Government hereby constitutes an Indus- 
trial Tribunal with Shri Mohd. Yaqoob Khan as Presi- 
ding Officer with headquarters at Jaipur and refers the 
said dispute for adjudication to the said Industrial 
Tribunal. 

Schedule 

“Whether the management of Messrs Raj Flooring 
Stone Company, Ramgunjmandi (District 
Kota) wus justified in terminating the lien of 
Shrlmati Bhuri Sewaram, Female Mazdoor, 
employed in their Satalkhedi Lime Stone 
Quarry, with effect from 4th January, 1971 and 
subsequently not retaining her name on the 
badll list of the Quarry? If not to what 
relief is she entitled. 

[No, L-29012 (10) / 72-LR-IV.] 


TSfceft, 24 v3JT ( 1972 


W°*IT < 5 2 9 95 — W: T-ifpl d <4d< TPT ^ fyr 1 *tJt 
yypra sr^^rt Jr Mdfd r -T farTf % tnt T tw test ttT- 

fTT RET TOThl d?r dlTd fThT WlTI, TTTOR 

rsT % to Jr hrs fjpfrsr^f ito yurTm % TRqyr 

sfHrtfW frypc faSHlTT | ; 

(ftr Td: TWIT T4d fdTTd dT RrM TT 

% Rt'-I, fdJffard dildf TtS'fRT HUffftfr % 

5RT: Vft, ?ft2flPld> fTTR drftriwr, 1947 ( 1947 
dtr 14) # am 7-w yfrr tnrr 10 TT treutt (1) % 
Hy (t) TTTT 5ETH HfyTRT dd TTtd yTT %^td TOR 
Rd^jrrr qyr dfrTrfd+ yrffjyrw yfsT yroft t f^r% frar- 
4Tr ’rfwrfr «ft twit rwt Tfaym ret, 

fyddd iJWdd dTJT iddT sflr TIT fddK Id TTT sfteftfJry? 

yrfttyrw, ti T fed- fayftra tort | i 


"yyr tr TOrfHr ?€Et , trir rptft % 
RytRRy Tr, twt TRnwHfr ttr wry wrft Jr fyyyy 
tTI tottr, df^rr durjr % RwifaynT yd 4 tr- 
Tft, 1 97 1 % TTTR TORT Tk TTT Jr WfT wfl yft sn^dfT 
Jr d thtt rtrITto «h? dfe y^Y, 44 fyrr sty-rEr 

dT STOTT I \ 

[dWTtTd 29012( 10)/72-ftdo?nTo-4] 


New Delhi, the 26 th June 1972 

S.O. 2996.— Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the management of North 
Jhagrakhand Colliery 0 f Messrs Jhagrakhand Collieries 
(Private) Limited, Post Office Jhagrakhand Colliery, 
District Surguja, and their workmen in respect of the 
matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudica- 
tion to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
Jabalpur, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

“Whether the management of North Jhagrakhand 
Colliery of Messrs Jhagrakhpnd Collieries 
(Private) Limited, Post Office Jhagrakhand 
Colliery, District Surguja (Madhya Pradesh), 
was justified in terminating the services ox 
Shri N. M. Kar, Surveyor, with effect from the 
10th November, 1970? If not, to what relief 
is the workman entitled?” 

[No. L/22012/9/72-LRIL] 
di fTeSft, 26 '3JT, 197 2 

[fT° SRo 2696. — TT: TOTTT ^ TRT | 

dTI<#4 Jr MJffe: % 41T JI RRR 

5pm hr TtfRUTt (m 5 *#?) fJrfJrire Tt rt4 bhttt- 

HR iFfEwTI, ypFTT TOFIHR TtEtoTt, tWT ITOfyf 

*fr Jr TORJR fTOR+l +T+ITI % 4 Tr rt 

5frrftfjR fTTIT fyHRIT | ; 

«rk TrL RT4TR W fwT RTOtTOERT 

% fsTT frf ftlcT TO7TT yiERfEr I ; 

hr:, m, ^frHtfJpp fy^rr? srfkfdTR, 1947 (1947 

y.T 14) SRlHTO 1 0 Tt TIUrCT ( 1 ) (w) 3KT TO 

irfrorr yn tTet '+■ id ^rr, %nfbr 1 <1 w 

tTrr Tt yto HftrfTTOr # hrt 7-t % rram tFsh 
%f3Td hwr: yrfiTfror, wry; Tt HFif-rTO 

% fjpr fMffticr ttoV 1 1 



Sec. 3 (ii)jt 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4373 


O' 

" fiTFT ST4TFf TT ^ fHpTJS 

Tj fiT'4 SHITF^ Ttfaqfr, +lfriT(t, 

firaT irq p rr (hst 9 %sr) % TFNTrr^ tt, 10 

1970 % ’Sft OTTo tTRo %R, irfsFfi ^ Tt HKPH 

4n?rr ?Tnftf%cr ?tt ? trfe tiff, eft spicffa 

m fpKr< |?” 

[*T®EfT t^r-22012/9/72-lT5ro5rrTO'2] 


New Delhi, the 28 th June 1972 

S. O. 2997 . — Whereas the Central Governmen 
is of opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers inrelation to the management of Sri Amritnagrar 
Selected Colliery, Post Office Raniganj, District Burdwan and 
their workmen in respect of the mitters specified in the Schedule 
hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section ro of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (t4 of 1947), the Central Government hereby 
refers the said disnute for adjudeation to the Central Govern- 
ment Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, constitute^ under section 
7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

“Whether the management of Sri Amritnagar Selected 
Colliery, Post Office Rantganj, District Burdwan, are justified 
in refusing employment to 124 workmen, whose names and 
designations are given in the Annexure, from the dates indicated 
against each? If not, to what relief are these workmen 

entitled ? 

Annexure To Schedule 


s. 

No. 

Name 

Designation 

Stopped 

from 

1 

Sitaram Singh 

. Overman 

3 - 12-71 

2 

Manabir Singh , 

. Machine Driver 

Do. 

3 

Babulal Singh . 

Loader : 

Do. 

4 

Atnbika Prasad . 

Timber Mistry 

Do. 

5 

Sarju Shaw 

Driller 

Do. 

6 

Biseswar Mahato 

. Surface Trammer 

Do. 

7 

Bhuneswar Yad.t/ 

Loader 

Do.' 

8 

Titu Das 

. Loader 

Do. 

9 

Vdai Mahato . 

Machine Cooly 

Do. 

10 

Nageswar Mahato 

Loader 

Do. 

11 

Khemlal Mahato 

, Loader 

Do. 

12 

Baldew Mahato 

. Loader 

3-12-1971 

13 

Tetor Prosad . 

Loader 

Do. 

14 

Jugeswar Ram 

Loader 

4 - 12-1971 

IS 

Gonori Singh. 

Expl Carrier 

4-12-1971 

16 

Mungeswar Ram 

. Loader 

5-12-1971 

17 

Ramlal Yadav. 

Loader 

8-12-1971 

18 

Bujharath Harijan 

Loader 

Do. 

19 

Ramdhari Mauah 

Loader 

Do. 

20 

Madho Das 

Loader 

Do. 

21 

Bhagu Saw 

Loader 

Do. 

22 

Chandra Sekhar 
Biswakarama 

Trammer 

Do. 


S. Name Designation Stopped from 

No. 


■* 

— — i-j— 1— 1— 1— 1-1 — 1 

— 4 — * — * — 4 — ■» — 4 — 4 — * 

“* 

23 

Ananda Routh 

Roof Dreser 

8-12-1971 

24 

Rameswar Routh . 

Banksman 

Do. 

25 

Satyr Nara’n Yadav 

Engine Khalasi 

Do. 

26 

Baban Yadav . 

Fireman 

Do. 

27 

Kameswar Nunia 

Fireman 

Do. ’ 

28 

Rameswar Saw 

Roof Dresser 

Do. 

29 

Sitaram Kahar 

On-setter 

Do. 

30 

Dhaneswar Ram 

Loader 

Do. 

3t 

Bramhdew Ram 

B ink man 

Do. 

32 

Ram"atan Prasad 

Banksman 

Do. 

33 

Cimdrika Bhagtt 

Surface Trammer 

Do'. 

34 

Jaiardhan Singh 

Loader 

Do. 

35 

D'na Nath Sonar 

Pumo Khalasi 

Do. 

36 

BHarath Lai Sonar . 

Boiler Khalasi 

Do. 

37 

S tmbhu Prasad 

Surface Trammer 

Do. 

38 

Kishori Sonar , 

Loader 

Do. 

39 

Ramrith Singh 

Roof Dresser 

Do. 

40 

Ramjatan Singh 

Loader 

Do. 

41 

Dhrup Ntrain Singh. 

Loader 

Do. 

42 

Ram Sahai Saw 

Roof Dresser 

Do. 

43 

Ram dhani Mahato . 

Onsetter 

Do. 

44 

Ramawatar Mahato . 

Surface Haulage 
Khalasi 

Do. 

45 

Bindeswar Mahato . 

Banksman 

Do. 

46 

Mandal Singh 

Loader 

Do. 

47 

Ganga Kurmi . 

Banksman 

Do. 

48 

Jagai Kurmi 

Eng ne Khalasi 

Do. 

49 

Syambihari Singh . 

Onsetter 

Do. 

5<5 

Jhagra Ahir 

Banksman 

Do. 

5i 

Jabbar Mia 

Loader 

Do. 

52 

Teju Mia 

Roof Dresser 

Do. 

53 

Jumman Mia . 

Chain Kutter 

Do. ' 1 

54 

Khalil Mia 

Chain Kutter 3 

Do.l 

55 

Raghu Paswan 

Surface Trammer 

Do. 

56 

Mahesh Prasad. 

Surface Trammer 

Do. 

57 

Hardew Singh . 

Surface Trammer 

Do. 

58 

Bedeshi Monadal 

Engine Khalasi 

Do. 

59 

Ramlal Pashi . 

Roof Dresser 

Do. 

60 

Ramlal Mahato 

Roof Dresser 

Do. 

61 

Badri Saw 

Roof Dresser 

Do. ; 

62 

Samahru Singh 

Roof Dresser 

Do. 

63 

Pachu Singh . 

Tiggsr Khalasi 

Do. ' 

64 

Mathura Prasad 

Tigger Khalasi 

Do. 

65 

Gouul Saw 

Driller 

Do. 

66 

BhukhalDas . 

Roof Dresser 

Do. 

67 

Sarju Paswan . 

Loader 

Do. 

68 

Abdhesh Singh 

Explosive Carrier 

Do. 

69 

Raghu Nath Mahato 

Loader 

Do. 

70 

Sadhu Saw 

Machine Helper 

Do. 

71 

Joginder Saw . 

Loader 

Do. 

72 

Jugal Saw 

Loader 

Do. 

73 

Ramjit Tewary 

Drill Man 

Do. 

74 

Rahey Bauri . 

Banksman 

Do. 


4374 


Tim GA ZE TTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 , 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[Past II — 


s. 

No. 

Name 

Designation 

Stopped 

from 

75 

Mufcsudan Das 

F.ng. Kha'asi 

8-12 1971 

76 

Rames'.vui Mahato . 

Loader 

Do. 

77 

Ramu Mahal 0 . 

Loader 

Do. 

78 

Budhuia Roura 

Loader 

Do. 

79 

ManguruDas . 

Loader 

Do. 

80 

Dashi Kamin . 

Picking Kamin 

Do. 

81 

Budhni Kamin 

Picking Kamin 

Do. 

82 

Lakhi Kamin . 

Picking Kamin 

Do. 

83 

JogoKole 

Picking Cooly 

Do. 

84 

GouriRam . , 

Surface Trammer 

Do. 

85 

JugesWar Prasad 

Roof Dresser 

Do. 

86 

Gunlicha Praihan . 

Wagon Loader 

Do. 

87 

Brindresh Saw 

Loader 

Do. 

88 

Soharari Saw , 

Loader 

Do. 

89 

Muni Mahato . 

Loader 

Do. 

90 

Gobindar Sui . 

Wagon Loader 

Do. 

9 i 

Jahar Mahato , 

Loader 

Do. 

92 

Bhutu Kola 

Roof Dresser 

Do. 

93 

Jamahiddin Mia 

Roof Dresser 

Do. 

94 

Sahadml Mia , 

, C.C.M. Driver 

Do. 

95 

Baldeb Kolc . 

. Roof Dresser 

Do. 

96 

Pairoo Mia . 

Roof Dresser 

Do. 

97 

Tarapada Dewashi 

. Puunp Khalashi 

Do. 

98 

Kanaih Mallick 

, Loader 

Do. 

199 

KuliaSaw 

, Loader 

Do. 

IOO 

Kesho Goura . 

, Loader 

Do. 

101 

Kaloo Parikasha 

, Loader 

Do. 

102 

Dibakar Bisai . 

. Loader 

Do. 


S. 

No. 

Name 

Designation 

Stopped 

from 

103 

Mahajan Kewat 

Leader 

8-12*1971 

104 

Jarnun a Prasad 

Roof Dresser 

9-I2~I97I 

105 

Baiju Sonar 

Banksman 

Do. 

106 

Ramdew Singh . 

Chaprasi 

IO-I2-I97I 

107 

Gopal Biswakararpa . 

U. G. Trammer 

Do. 

108 

Antu Bhuia 

Picking Cooly 

Do. 

109 

Munulal Napit 

Roof Dresser 

Do. 

no 

Shlbu Ram 

Filter Mistry 

U-I2-I97I 

III 

Kamesar Singh 

Roof Dresser 

12-12-1971 

1 12 

Chatu Pashi 

Loader 

Do. 

113 

Ramdew Yadav 

Looseman 

28-12-1971 

114 

Nawringi Singh 

Filer Helper 

31-12-1971 

115 

Dasarath Biswakarmai] 

Trammer 

I2-I-I972 

Il6 

Ramashis Harljan 

Loader 

27-9-1971 

U 7 

Sit a Mahato 

Roof Dresser 

[-12-1971 

ns 

Rambinai Singh 

Loader 

4-12-1971 

IT 9 

Rameswar Singh 

Eng. Khalasi 

20-12-1971 

120 

Beni Mahato 

Roof Dressei 

4-12-1971 

121 

Lalan Prasad 

Driller 

4-12-1971 

122 

Shiv Prasad Nnnia 

Banksman 

4-12-1971 

123 

Ramchanda Mahato 

Loader 

C-12-1971 

124 

Nitai Routh 

Boiler Khalasi 

1-12-1971’' 


[No. L/19012/36/72-LRII.] 



Sec. 3(H)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4375 


Tf 28 BT, 1972 

TToBTo 2 995 . — BT: % ; 3 TF ft pF TTTTTB Pmf % Wtf f *ft SFTrFFR 

tYP-ibO , we Tpffant, Psrt wtbtb % rbfrjrsb b Vt? bYt bbtr! % 47 b mp sjfalfBT fanT 

t ; 

B*k ITT: TrYb ifTfF TTfT fBBTT Tt ? BF1 Ph IJ I TT % Pbf f TBpBT TFRl tFetEt BR5T47 £ ; 

bb; m, ?r 7 ?rtFw Ptbfs srfafBTFr, 1947 (1947 tt 14) Ti uet 1 0 ttY btort (1) (b) jrtj^tt 

BTfTrTtrf TT 5FTFT TT^'^ rr , TfsYb BTTR I ITT TTB pTBTB Tt TW BfilfTTrT ft ZTHT 7 -TT f mft Tf$B TRBTT 

w't'ctPrrr bPertb, tnttti tt ^btbPttbt % Pbb ffrfTFi^r ^Rfi | i 

"w 47 B^BTTT pffTTZR TnfBBTi TTTvT 7 ' Rrmf 3 T, f^FTT BTTFT % SFFBR'RB TT, TT 12 4 '+ 4 Tipi Tt, pRT% TFT B 

Wf TTTBB 4 Pin; TTTT I, -377 % bFTB ff Tp BrYbtY # TTB T BBT ^TTbYPtB £ Tp? Tpl, B> 4 TBTR pRT iFITTT % RFRR f 


*FJ?j47 TT TRIBES' 


BoiT 

TFT 



TTTFT 

4ft 4 Pm mj 

(1) 

(2) 


(3) 

(4) 

1 

Tirnm faf 



. sfPmfa 

3-12-71 

2 

TFTTh-fiR . 

. 

. 

. B#TTTTfTT 

B*fRR 

3 

BT®rBTB Fb^T 

* 

. 

. bYtt 

bbW 

4 

mNti bbtb| 

♦ 


. ft^RfaRRi 

tbrt 

5 

BTB 5TFT 

-0 

. 

* 

. fjBT 

BBYtB 

6 

fV^hFRTpi 


. 

. BTiB ^BT 

bbYrt 

7 

TnffaBTBRB 

>D 



BIBB 

bbTtb 

8 

<ftr 5 tb 



. bYir 

BBfatT 

9 

BBBBBBt 



. BufFr^wi 

bbYtb 

10 

4f7v«h. bsbY 



41 i T 

brRb 

11 

^*F4H RSBt . 



. BRr 

BbTw 

12 

BB^*T B?b7 . 



bWt 

w4m 

13 

JTR STBTB . 



# 

BbYw 

14 

TFiSBT TFT 


* 

rYst 

4-12-1971 

15 

B'l'iPV ftr^r 

, 


. FWTBYftlT TpRR 

4-12-1971 

16 

b4bR 7TTT . 



, rYtr 

5-12-1971 

17 

TFTBTB BTTB 

# * 

* 

4 *TfafT 

8-12-1971 

18 

BfRB ffRFT 

• * 

. 

. Birr 

TBYbB 

19 

TTBBTfi BTBT5 

• 


. bYbt 

bbYtb 




437*5 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 

21, 1972/ASVTNA 29, 1894 

[Part II — 

(1) 

(2) 




(3) 

(4) 

20 





^ftST 

8-12-1971 

21 

T* 




ITtTT 

irflW 

22 

fVF'HviTf 




. 

SS>1 

23 





. ¥9lf7n; ■ 

S¥>FT 

24 

Ti^rnr TT3^r 





S¥>T¥ 

25 




* 

$'Ji r i unrrcft 

S*ft¥T 

26 

m *tpi¥ 




95TST4S 

ssW 

27 

¥1^1 V¥< T fvpTT 




. STSTtfS 

S¥>R 

28 

thEftt RTC . 




. ¥95 fsT 

SS>Rr 

29 

ifiwRwn: 





s«fafT 

30 

ff^PPCTTR . 




. STtlT 

ssVt 

31 

f^rr^Tm . 




. f¥T#S 

S*fapT 

32 

TPTTFR SPTT¥ 




. 5?T3F*?>T 

m I3RT 

33 

■«rfe¥l R¥?T 



, 

srfa fwn 

Sst¥T 

34 




. 


Tartar 

35 

ffaT TDT R3TT 



. 

. qt'Twrcft 

Wfas 

36 

ftot ^rn: 




^qw»fV 

wto 

37 

SHUT 

'll 



• • 

, ¥9571 |sT 

safari 

38 




» 

. sfhrr 

SS'lTS 

39 

mfrw . 



• * 

. ¥95 fsT 

T«fl¥T 

40 

dtfsrpt 



• • 

. 

sstw 

41 

WWRTRWfaf 



« * 


SStW 

42 

TrtR^FT^rR 




¥95 fur 

S*iWc1 

43 

TTWft R?5ft . 




. STR'-RST 

s*fm 

44 

TDTTWT 




ssfa TgwPFrV 

S«faf¥ 

45 

fa^FTT HTPTT 




. SWfa 

s«iW 

46 

wwfir?; 




TftST 

RSfacT 

47 

ifar $*ff 




. swss 

SSfaTT 

48 

apnf 




. SSS STTTTTfV 

WPf?T 

49 

iptpt fayrft ftm 




. WTR-for 

s*r>Rr 

50 

ffPHT W?lT . 




^rs4s 

SStW 

51 

3T5?T ftplt 




. wfar 

S¥>RT 

52 

?nr fjpTi 

■a 




. ¥95 f FT 

*f*tl*KI 

53 

a^npr first . 




¥^7 

»w>Rr 

54 

ntfta fast 

. 



%S ¥I£T 

■> 

*fafo¥ 

55 

TS - , 9HRIS . 

* 


♦ 

. 7T9fa ftrr 

S*fajS 



Sec. 3(ii)] 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASV1NA 29, 

1894 4^77 

(1) 

(2) 




(3) 

(4) 

56 





HHiH <j?HT 

8-12-1971 

57 

fir^ 




. H^H £*HT 

hhFrt 

58 

iflH I S"! 





mm 

59 

tiwt qwl 1 




. fHT 

mm 

60 

TTWH 




^ fn* 

m\m 

61 

SRslt HR 




. far 

rTr 

62 

PTp Fh? . 





*WrtH 

63 

'T'jfa? 




fHRT ’TTRft' 

HHfacT 

64 

RJTT 5T?TT3r . 




. . fTR '. HMIH*) 

mm 

65 





• f?HT 

mm 

66 

vjhh sth 




. f HT 

mm 

67 

HT5J 'IRRH 




. "frsr 

HHtTH 

68 

UTOT Ffrs; . 




. tTWTHTfHH ^fTHT 

rTr 

69 

T*| HR H??fT 




. HtTT 

mm 

70 

HTt£ HR 




. HHlH ^TT 

mm 

71 

*TR 




. HIST 

THtfcT 

72 

6H 




. HITT 

rFr 

73 

fRrft 




fy-T^T 

HHtfT 

74 

tt& HRTft . 





HH>R 

75 

*1 TRT 




. ^T-T HHHft 

RtR 

76 

<iHm H$rft 




. . HTST 

TTlW 

77 

tfj; ir^fr 


♦ 


. HRT 

HHFR 

78 

?rrrt-jTr 




. HtST 

hhFr 

79 





, ^tlT 

RTR 

80 

<jixFi .. 




. fif^H HTJfTsr 

mm 

81 

^tFfV t4Pt . 




ftrfrr thFt 

TTt'TT 

82 

*T*ft ^hY^T 




, W%t 

q-TtR 

83 

^ftifr ^ 




. , PlFP 7 ! J«Ht 

RtTH 

84 

ifttt THT 




, . HH>H ^HT 

rW 

85 

'jJHRT 5RR 


. 

• 

. HH> fHT 

RlW 

86 

*jfrrr sraR 




$hh ifttr 

WITH 

87 

fa%T HR 




. HRt 

H*fTR 

88 

Ht$r* hr 



* 

hFst 

HHTR 

89 





. . ntrr 

JRFR 

90 

HrfHRT ^ 



• 

. ^RHtt 

Wf'RT 

91 

hshtwt . 




mrc 

mm 


4378 

THE GAZETTE 

OF 

INDIA: OCTOBER 

21, 197-2/ ASVlNA 29, 1894 [Part 11— 

(l) 

(2) 



(3) 

(4) 

92 

'<TZ ^ 

'fl t\ 



fTT 

8-12-1971 

93 




. ^qifTT 

TTPRT 

94 

<H j ,i ei ftm 



Tfo *fto tnio 

TTtTT 

95 





T-rm 

96 

Tiff? fTT! 



f <K 

T«ft"f?r 

97 

TTTTW ^TElft 



. TFT TTETt 

T#R 

98 




. TtST 

trPr 

99 

^ptt tr . 



. TRT 

TTpR 

100 

iftTG' . 



. TItt 

T«ftfT 

101 

TT5J TrfRTWT 



. TRT 

TTtTT 

102 

f-RRH' fami 



"fl s * 

JRTR 

103 

WRR 





104 

TTj/TT STTR 



. ^ f«rc 

9-12-1971 

105 





T#fT 

106 

f?re . 



tthttV 

10-12-1971 

107 

iftTTTT 



, ijoifro ^ifT 

TTlTT 

108 




. frf%T f 

TTpR 

109 

FJ'SJTET TPftT 




TTtET 

110 

ftfR THT 

■a 



. faR ftTPcfft 

11-12-1971 

111 

4UipRT 



. FS f$r 

12-12-1971 

112 

T"EJ M 1 vft 



. Ttrc 


113 

TPDtt TPR 




28-12-1971 

114 

H^rv-in f%$ . 



. Purr 

31-12-1971 

115 

WR f%iR4Rf 



. fur 

12-1-1972 

116 

TTTPfftT ? ; (Vl4 



5ftST 

27-9-1971 

117 

Tftrr TjEft 

, 

♦ * 

f*TC 

4-12-1971 

118 

7TT fanf 



. WtST 

4-12-1971 

119 




. ’fTHft 

20-12-1971 

120 

*ftft TT^Tt 



. f ¥P^ 

4-12-1971 

121 

5R5ET 5FTTC 



• f*^R 

4-12-9171 

122 

fifR WR JJYtTT 



% 

4-12-1971 

123 

7THW Ti^Tt 



. hYst 

8-12-1971 

124 

ftft TtT4 



TTTTT RTPft 

1-12-1971” 





[To rrsf- 1 9 1 

12/36/72-^0 TRo -2] 




Sec. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4379 


S.O, 2998. — Whereas the Central Government Is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the management of Madhujore 
Colliery of Messrs The Madhujore Coal Company (Pri- 
vate) Limited. Post Office Kajoragram, District Burdwan 
and their workmen in respect of the matters specified 
In the Schedule hereto annexed; 


And, whereas, the Central Government considers It 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 


Now, therefore. In exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause (di of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act. 1047 (14 of 1047), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudica- 
tion to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
Calcutta, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 


Schedule 

“Whether the management of Madhujore Colliery 
of Messrs The Madhujore Coal Company (Pri- 
vate) Limited, Post Office Kajoragram, District 
Burdwan is justified in dismissing Shri Bal- 
kishun Ahir, Trammer with effect from the 13th 
November, 1971? If not, to what relief the 
workman is entitled?” 

[No. L/19012/20/72-LRIL] 


qrro «rro 2998 — ffff: qft tit % 

fa 3TTO ffsjgfat fafafasff fafffa % Jf fffflf 
eft faff tot-tV ( snfafa ) fafaff s, fa fftpfk faftrofa 
ranffT sfraftn w, farr rafffiff fa srara ff ffff % Rrsra 
ffaffafa srk nr% fafam %■ faff tip? fraror 

fffffffTff t I 

fax ffff: fafaff ■'twit tpfff ffarrff nit ^ffTfffffffffff 
% fair ffff faff TTffr ffrifafa fffffffa | ; 

wr:, m, fafafara- fffffiff fagfffffff, 1947 (1947 
6 ffi 14) nft 10 nit scram ( 1) % fa) am 
ffff?ff fffafffa nrr rafar 4 rfa $tt, fafaff ^rmr tr^m 
tit ffanff nit in nit trnr 7-nr % raffa fffsff 

tefw *rwTT fafaffa? fafafini, nit fffiffffffarff 

% fair fan fw nrfat 1 1 

"nffi fraf fa ffffirrt faff ffpfat 
nit rajfaT fafafffa, ffinra t nfatrrtrrff , farffi ffffmff 

% ffffraffiffff spi, 13 fffflffT, 1971 ff fa ffTfffaffff 

rafa, i it: nit q-ff^Tff ffTffr nTfftfaff | ? nfa fffa, 
fft n^fniR faff ff^jfffar m | ?” 

[ffo tTvT -1 901 — 2/ 20 / 72 — tpfo ffRo-2] 


New Delhi, the 30 th June 1972 

S.O. 2999. — Whereas the Central Government Is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the management of Messrs 
Kalyanpur Lime and Cement Works Limited, Banjari 
(Shahabad) and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore. In exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause (dj of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudica- 
tion to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
(No. 2) Dhanbad constituted under section 7A of the 
said Act. 

Schedule 

“I. Whether the action of the management of 
Kalyanpur Lime Stone Quarry Post Office 
Banjari (Shahabad) in not granting leave for 
the period commencing from 31st March 1971 
and ending with 3rd April 1971 to their work- 
man Shri Gopichand Mallah Is justified? If not, 
to what relief Is the said workman entitled? 

11. Whether the action of the said management in 
refusing work to the said workman with effect 
from 5th April 1971 to 13th April, 1971 is 
justified? If not. to what relief if any is the 
said workman entitled?” 

[No. L-29012(13)/72-LR.IV.] 
fff ffffffa, 30 1972 

4ff° ffl° 2999 — ffff: fafaff TOR fa nff % 

fa fffat ^ ffffdfa? fafffa % Ufa $ 

4fftf TOffTJTJT fflfff ffffffiS, 441-0 

fa r ^ r rag ) $ wra % ffpw faffafa fan dufarO 

jjfa xjt $ fafaftn faffiff fafraiff | ; 

fan ffff: faftff ffnim ffffff faffiff -k fffrfffa'Affff 
% faq fa f faff 4nffT fffaffa fffffffft fa 

ffff:, ffff, fafaffaff fffffTff favjfd4ff, 1947 (1947 
4ff 14) fa RTO 10 4?t Mil ( l) % TO (ff) 3TO 
ffffff «l fad 4ff fffaff ffrfa ftr, %faff ffT+’K I'd^SKI 
ffffff faffK 4ft ff4ff fffafadd jfft ran 7— 4> % wtffa fffeff 

(k+k tiViiPi-t. ?rfrafmr, (ffWT 2) rararc 4ft 
*4l4fa«faff % fafa fafffaff 4»nft | 1 

" 1. 4ffT 4wffFT^t fflfff fatff 4fflfa, «TTOR~ 

4 4i -0 1 (ffrfiffTff) % srwraRDffrr 
4i4ffrri; 1f «ft faffan ffron? 4ff 31 * fffa, 
1971 fffat 3 wfa, 

1971 4 ft fffat STfffa % fafa 

®|t ff spt 4?nfai|t nfatfaff ^ ? 
fffa ff^t, fa ffffff faff SFjfaff 4ff 

?4iffK I ? 



4380 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II — 


2. WT 3W SnplWW wtWT 

5S^f, 1971 If 13 wfg, 1971 fin TTPT 

g ^ q5t wmtfw | ? gfe g$r, 

tfl gw inflR fan SPJfite W. lift Ttf $, 

sro| ?” 

[ff° t£T-29012( 13)/72^oSrn:o — 4] 

New Delhi, the 19th July 1972 

8.0. 3000. — Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the management of Messrs 
Ivan Milutinovic Pim, Vasco-da Gama (Goa) and their 
workmen in respect of the matters specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas, the Central Government consi- 
ders it desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudi- 
cation; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the Dowers con- 
ferred by clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 04 of 1947 1 . the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute 
for adjudication to the Central Government Industrial 
Tribunal, Bombay, constituted under section 7A of 
the said Act. 

Schedule 

“Whether the action of Messrs Ivan Milutinovic 
p.m. Capital Dredging Contractors, Mormugao 
Harbour (Goa) in terminating the services of 
the workman Shri E, Kuttan, Pillai Helper 
with effect from 26th April, 1972, is justified? 
If not, to what relief is the workman entitl- 
ed?" 

[No. L-36012/3/72-P&D.] 
V. SANKARALINGAM, Under Secy. 

g£ ftp-fr, 19 ^rrf, 1972 

Wo Wo 3 00 0— — Wi Vtflq U TW7 stfl’ TIT £ fn 

wrw?r Sr ferniw fwff % Sr 
^ fSFrfggtffin fur, fiwtfwrrgT, fitm % ww 
E ffifitUlW ?fV Tfi'hl 0 % thf FT sfaftffin 

ffifiTfi fuCiHM ; 

yftr W:, gWR W ffifiTfi fit WWpfifiW 

^ <W ftfifalfi AWT TtefimrtTITTpfr ^ ; 

W?r:, 'trw, WfferfH-UTT, 1947 ( 1947 W 

14 ) ^tnrr 10 ( i)”% w”(t) snr wr 

nf'ppff w wfir wrT ffi nuftgjVn+R fiRpTTT gw 
fwrr nt gw srftjfggg rkt 7-n % wftg gfer V 
ggwr wVftPm srftwwr, nt ww Pi 4 mu % Pw 
ftsfwf i 

"wt Airfi wpt yPw 

srfct 2 R, R TTyimt (gfen) rft, 26 1972 

t\ ^ wfon: «fr wto $jg Prwf , 1 pit, rft n T 


ggwr nt wfgit wwtPw | ? gfr fit w$wt 
fwr SPTffX W t 7 " 

[g° 360 12/3/7 2— 'fir qig #r] 

fito WWlfRWT, tPR fiPfifi I 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

[Office of the Chief Labour Commissioner (Central)] 

New Delhi, the 14th July 1972 
ORDERS 

S.O. 3001. — Whereas an application has been made 
under section 19(b) of the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965 
by Messrs Tandur and Navandgi Stone Quarries Pvt. 
Ltd. (employer) in relation to their establishments 
mentioned in the Schedule below for extension of the 
period for the payment of bonus to their employees for 
the accounting year ending on 30th September, 1971. 

And whereas being satisfied that there are sufficient 
reasons to extend the time I have, in exercise of the 
powers conferred on me by the proviso to clause (b) 
of Section 19 of the said Act read with the notification 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour 
and Employment No. WB.20(42)/65 dated the 28th 
August, 1965, passed order on 3rd July, 1972 extending 
the period for payment of the said bonus by the said 
employer by three months (i.e. up to 31st August, 
1972) from the last date for payment of bonus under 
clause (b) of Section 19 of the Act. 

Now this is published for information of the employer 
and ail the employees of the said establishment. 

The Schedule 

Name and address of Establishment (■) 

the employer (s) 

M/s. Tandur and Navandgi 
Stone Quarries Pvt. Ltd., 

6-1-1063/B/2, Raj Bhavan 
Road, Hyderabad^, A.P. 

[No. BA-16 ( 10) /72-LS.L] 

(nt rfR ttmjx ftWT) 
m wpiw w nrgfw] 

fiffwflj 14 sprit, 1972 

srT^ur 

w° wto 3001 . — '• 4 nrf <r^[T mV gwuP W 

Wlttsf Pi Hid 3 (fwWfi) ^ *f 

gPw wrwf % rrfe Jr 30-9--71 nr wtor 

ijpl 41^ SpjT W % M 'I h 1 Ph' I ttw % 

WPT rfl WTRIh TV ^1^1 % PtSl fOT nfyPiou, 

1965 'fff RTTT 19( 5 9') % ^1#! MlVfi folT ^ I 

mV w: ^ hhiuiu w Pfi hht <4 ^ 

wwr wur w rtwt % “TT *tV ttwr fffTr* 

trfaym r® tr-2o(42)/65 erPi 

2 8 sptw, 19 65 % gw rfer gw gftrPwr rfV trnr 
19 % (^) % TO Rrfwtf Ti WPl 

wfl 3 - 7-72 jw fwtwF 5Ri gw rPw % 

OTift WTTWfg 4ft itfV gru 19 ^ 1WS (5T) 

^ gtgn % grm ^ sriwg gRW ?r fftg 

(?W^ 31-8-72 Wi) WlSr w wtw fen {(; : 

tot gw wtw % fwfarr gV nggfrfwf 

4 ^ % Pi*l gwfiw frw WW ^ I 



Sac. 3(11)3 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4381 




ffpftJ(4>/f4WtW4>f 44 4TW RTT44 

wk Mdl 


4*# tp^ wk 77k 

441 {Hi 6 - 1 / 1063 / 4 V 0/2 

srto f%f*TT5r, -{RTtm ffor 

— 4 (WT° Wo) 


[wo wto ito ie(io) 72 340 i^ro wrt] 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

S.O, 3092. — Whereas an application has been made 
under section 19(b) of the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965 
by Messrs Gingurthi Stone Quarrying Company (em- 
ployer) In relation to their establishments mentioned 
in the Schedule below for extension of the period for 
the payment of bonus to their employees for the ac- 
counting year ending on 30th September, 1971. 

And whereas being satisfied that there are sufficient 
reasons to extend the time I have, in exercise of the 
powers conferred on me by the proviso to clause (b) 
of Section T9 of the said Act read with the notification 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour 
and Employment No. WB.20(42)/65 dated the 28th 
August, 1965, passed order on 3rd July, 1972 extending 
the period for payment of the said bonus by the said 
employer by three months (l.e. up to 31st August, 
1972) from the last date for payment of bonus under 
clause (b) of Section 19 of the Act. 

Now this is published for Information of the employer 
and all the employees of the said establishment. 

Schedule 

Name and address of Establishment 

the employer (s) 

M/s. Glndurti Spain Quarries 
Company Tandur, Distt. 

Hydrabad (A.P.) 

[No. BA-16 (11) /72-LS.I.] 
R. J. T. D'MELLO, 

Chief Labour Commissioner (Central). 

44 o 300 2:- pMb<rO 44 1 Off 

TPEft (fawftnp) % sft% tft w^wt if wf%4 wq% 
prof % TEW^ST W 30-9-71 *Pt WWF7T 41% 

W % W4% TfcTTfkfr 4% 4t4W % W4TW 4% 

Hi I '"il dRl 44 % f%4 jfldti OT wfwfdHH, 19 65 

4?t bttt lQ(’a') % wlr wi^w fkrr | i 


wtT 471: 41$ HHIU Id $t 4T% 4T f% 444 4^T% % 
44T4 f 4Kd 7R4!R % WW wk TtoRTR WWT7PT 
4% wfagWWT 40 4Jv4o 4f-20(42)l65 TTTffa 28 
W4T4, 1 9 6 5 % 4T4 nfoTT 444 wffff4W4 4% 8KI 1 9 % 


’T'l (»*) % TR§4T 5RT 5R7T itfPklWf 44 44t4 4R4 1 
f* 3-7-72 4% 444 f44T4T TRT 444 4144 %414 4% 
444T4f4 4Tt Wf4f444 4% WRT 19 4? (4T)% Wtft4 

4t44 % 44T4 4% wfclW 4TfE? % %l4 (WW?7[ 

31-8-72 445 ) 4fT% 44 WT^TT T fcff $ I 

W4 Rt 444 RT1W4 % f4Wt445 Wk 44f T^Wlfkff 
4% ^44T % frit 44iTfw4 %4T 4ldl ^ 

W^(4t 

fdmw/fkfrwr 44 414 Rrm 

Wk 44T 

J?4W RlHJKdl Rk 44lfkr 
44441 4^7, f if Tr 

|rt-tr (wro 40 ) 

[%o iffo (To ie(ll)/72 C[4 t[4l] 
(WRo ito 4t%%t) 

4'R wh wt$ot (k?kr) 

New Delhi, the 29 th June 1972 

S.O. 3003.— In exercise of the powers conferred by 
Clause (a) of Sub-Section (2) of Section 16 of the DP 
(Compensation & Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 1954), 
the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Uttam 
Singh, Asstt. Administrator PEPSU Townships Develop- 
ment Board as Managing Officer for the Custody, 
Management and Disposal of compensation pool In the 
area of Rajpura & Tripura Township with immediate 
effect. 

[No. 7(2)ARG/03.] 
A. L. HANDA, Dy. Secy. 

(Wff wk T144R fT*TFT) 
wffaMt, 1 1^41^, 197 2 

44 o WTo 3 00 3 . — ■fWRITpTW °4144 (fff44R 

44T JTltw) WffffffWW 195 4 ( 1954 44 44) 4% WRT 
16 4fr4WWRT (2) % (T) 3RT W44 wFffdWl 

44 5(414 4R4 ^4 %;#1W 4WR RT% T1TT «ft 4744 faf, 
5TWET45, 44447 f4444 , 4?1 47444 

W T 4 % 44T f4J7T % 44dkt4 tfcff if 4*414 41 

W’RR 44 wfffWT, 44T f443J4 % f43 44? J WfffTrtt 

% '74 $ f4iJ44 4R41 | I 

[TPsT! 7(2)/3o WRoTfto 63] 
Wo Tfo ^T^T, 44 fffWW 1 



4382 


THE GAZETTE Of INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 19?2/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part Jl — 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 1th August 1972 

S.O, 3004. — Whereas the Central Government has in 
pursuance of clause (b) of section 8 of the Employees 
State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), nominated Shrl 
B. V. Adavi, Deputy Secretary to the Government of 
India, Ministry of Finance (Department of Expendi- 
ture), on the Standing Committee of the Employees’ 
State Insurance Corporation, in place of Shri D. K. 
Jain; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 8 of the Em- 
loyees State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the 
entral Government makes the following amendment 
in the notification of the Government of India In the 
Ministry of Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of 
Labour and Employment) No, U-16013/7/7I-HI dated 
the 17th September, 1971, namely: — 

In the said notification, under the heading “[No- 
minated by the Central Government under clause i,b) 
of section 8]”, for the entry against item 4, the follow- 
ing entry shall be substituted, namely: — 

“Shri B. V. Adavi, Deputy Secretary to the Govern- 
ment of India, Ministry of Finance, Depart- 
ment of Expenditure.” 

[No. H. 16013/6/71-HI(I).l 


( «PT dk fddTd ) 

7 TO, 197 2 

dd* srr° 3004 :-qfr: %dfk dnfdTtf' 

TTW sftdT dfafddd, 1948 (l948 dd 34) dft dm 8 

% gtrg (ty) % d^dTd Jf, dt dk dk ddR^, dd dfdd 

dTTd ddddd, fdd ddTeTd (*99 fddTd) dft, dl"^k %o 

% F9T9 qr dnfdkt ttft dVdr ftrdd yrt FTTdfdfdfd 
Jr did fdfk'd fddT I 

dd:, dd, drddkf TTW dkd dfdfddd, 1948 
( 1948 34 ) qft dm 8 % ^fTFi Jf (rrwT, 

dlTd TOTT % dd dk Jddfd ddTdd (dd dkTkrdTT 
fddTd) dft dfdgddT d* ^0 16013/7/71-^0 dlk, 
fddfdr 17 fklFdl, 1971 Jr fkdfdFdd ddfkd drkf 
t, ddk— 

ddd dfdg/ddr Jr “ ( kdk et+ti am dm 8 % »yvd 

(ty) % ddk drdfkkr)” dftdyr % dk dr 4 % did^r 

dft dfdfk % FTTd tt fkdfdkd srfdfk dfk*rrfdd k 
'JTFpft, ddfd : — 

"«ft dk dk ddTdV, 

dd-dfdd, dTTd d<ddT, 
fad ddTdd, (®dd fddTd) " 


[d* t^o 16013/6/7 1— T£d° dlk(i)] 


S.O. 3005. — Whereas the Central Government has in 
pursuance of clause (c) of Section 4 of the Employees’ 
State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), nominated Shri 
B, V. Adavi, Deputy Secretary to Government of India, 
Ministry of Finance (Department of Expenditure) as a 
member of the Employees’ State Insurance Corpora- 
tion, in place of Shri D. K. Jain; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 4 of the Em- 
loyees State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948). the 
entral Government hereby makes the following further 
amendment in the notification of the Government of 
India In the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Re- 
habilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) 

S.O. No. 2763, dated the 27th May, 1971, namely; — 

In the said notification under the heading “[No- 
minated by Central Government under clause (c) of 
Section 4]”, for the entry against Item 6, the following 
entry shall be substituted, namely: — 

“Shri B. V. Adavi, Deputy Secretary to Government 
of India, Ministry of Finance (Department of 
Expenditure)”. 


[F. No. U 16013(6) /71-HI.] 

dd* SIT* 30 05:— dd : %dtk RTdP: if, ddfdkV 
<TW dtdT dfdfddd, 1948 ( 1948 dd 34) d?f STITT 

4 % tyw (d) % d dt sff* *ft* ddTdf dd-dfdd, 

dTTd TRdd i, fdtT ddTdd (addfdBTd) drkdfdk %o tfd 
% FdTd IT ‘dkkl TT57T dkd fddd k dd if dmfdf^W 
fdTdT | I 

dd: dd dkrrrt dmr dkr dfdfddd 1948 (1948 

dd 34) k dRT 4 % d^dTd Jf k£k dTddT ^d^dlTT 
dTTd ddddd, % dd, ftddTT dk jddf d ddTdd ( dd dk 
ffddR fddTd )dff dfdTjTddi d* dd* dr* 2763 dkfy 

2 7 df , 1 9 7 1 Jr fdPTFdfidd dk durtsrd yrtrfr ddtd 

ddd dfd^ddr Jf "(Wk tor dm dm 4 % 

wrz (d) Jf drd fdfd^d ) ” dkyr % df% dy 6 ^ flTdJf 

qff dfdfe % FTTd TT fddTfRTfed dkfk dfdTdTfdd RffV 
ddJdT. ddfd : — 

“sfV dV* df* ddT^t, dd-dfdd, 

dTTd TRddT, fdTT ddldd (®dd FddTd) ” 


[id* t^o— 16 013 (g)/71-^ dTt] 


New Delhi, the 14 th August 1972 

S.O. 3006. — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of' the em- 
ployees In relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs. The Co-operative League of the USA, AIFACS 
Building, Rafl Marg, New Delhi, have agreed that the 
provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be 
made applicable to the said establishment; 



Sec. 3(il)] 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4383 


Now, therefore in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-seclion (4) of section I of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of February, 1971. 

[No. S.35019(71)/72-PF.II(i).] 
df freftft, 14 557*7, 19 72 

57 ° 77° 3 0 0 6 . -77 : dmftr 7TTR 5ft Tif 77ft7 7T7T 

3 ; fT 77ft 71-757*177 tflTtwm^oiTfrotTo^o srr£° 
lTo ftfto qffo 5577 77ft 7fft, 7$ ffteftft 7r77 57777 ft 
fftftRrT irk TTfftzff 5 ft Tf ft<wr 77 ttt 77 7777 , 

ftt ft Ft 777Trft 7fft r 7 fafft § 7*7777 fftfsr 

f777, 1952 ( 1 952 77 19) % 77777 757 P5TT7 57 717 

far 75 ft ; 

^rff:, m, 5ft arm 1 5ft 779171 ( 4 ) 

JITT 717 TTfilTTl 57 7717 7*7 ^rr 57557 557577 757 
‘crnTGTTiT % 7 57*7 757 57177 Ft rrT^'TITr 7T\ ft I 

75 7 fag® 71 1971 7ft 77771 % STW fTT dft 77tT 
775ft 7T7ftt I 


[ftotTffo 35019(7l)/72-7fto77io2(i)] 


S.O. 3007. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the 
first proviso to section 6 of the Employees’ Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
the Central Government, after making necessary en- 
quiry into the matter hereby specifies with etleet from 
the 1st February, 1971, the establishment known as 
Messrs The Co-operative League of the USA, AIFACS 
Building, Rati Marg, New Delhi, for the purposes of the 
said proviso. 

[No. S. 35019(71)/72-PF.II(li).] 

77° HT° 3 00 7. — %7ft7 77777 T77nft Tftm 
f7r77^^^ft^f7r7 5Elftft777, 1952( 1952 5719) 
5ft STHT 6 % 777 T7*7§ 5171 7T7 wftftlftf 57 7717 5Rft 
^7, , 77 f777 7 577777 7T7 57% % 77717 1 717771 

1971 ft77lf 5ft-TTT%f77 7>1 577v ^° 77° g°, 
7o7l^otrqi°iro7T°iT7o 777 77ft 717 7$ femft 77551 
7*7177 5ft 77^77171 757 77^ % 77i77t % fftTT 

fftfTfTR 777ft ft I 


[7° 1*7° 35019(7l)/ 72— TVomgo 2 (if)] 


S.O. 3008. Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority ol the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment khown as 
Messrs E. J. Dastur and Company, Dol-Bln-Shir, 2nd 
Floor, 69-71 Ghoga Street, Bombay havo agreed that 
the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and 


Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be 
made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment, 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on thq thirty first day of December, 1970. 

[No. S. 35018('52)/72-PF.II(i).] 

57° 7To 3008. — 77: %" r "sft7 7P577 5ft 77 7cft7 
TfTT ft f7 ^77 f ° T’o 77g* rnjf 5777ft ft7-f77-7ftT 
%7ftr 7f77 69-71 7ft7T ?7ft7, 7*7^ 7T7T ’’7177 ft 
7*7® fTTftTT 7V 5T77rf*7ft 5ft S[7 7T7 77 7777 

jfr *r£ ft fftl 777171 '0(707 fqftj q/r 777 fftfft 
Tfyf'177 195 2 (1952 57 19) ftl 7777 757 77T77 
5ft f5ifi' vTfft 7ffei*; 

77: 77 757 Srfftfft^ 5ft 7T7T 1 5ft 777TT[ ( 4 ) 
7575 777 7f577T 5T 7717 577 i^rr ^rffT 7757* gft 
?rf?jf7T7 % 7777 757 77r77 Tift TrPpTRT 777ft 

ft I 

5$ 7fftg77T 1970 % fT7*77 % CTftT77 for 77 
777 1 1 775ft 757,71 I 

[fto IT7-3501 8( 52)/72-7ft°q71° 2(i)] 


8.0. 3009. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the 
first proviso to section 6 of the Employees’ Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
the Centra] Government, after making necessary en- 
quiry in'.o the matter, hereby specifies with effect from 
the 31st December, 1970, the Establishment known as 
Messrs E. .1, Dastur and Company, Dol-Bin-Shir, 2nd 
Floor, 69-71 Ghoga Street, Bombay for the purposes of 
the said proviso. 

[No. S.35018(52)/72-PF.II(ii).] 
77° 77° 3 00 9. — 777Tvft Rffteif fftfa Tfftr 

7775 777 fftfft 7fafT77 1952 ( 1952 57 19) 5ft 
am 6 % 777 mgr 7Rr 757 7f577ft 57 77>7 5R% 
grr 7*T[7 s7 f777 ft 7755757 717 5TT ftft 

TUTTcj; Ofr^TPT 777 7° 57^* 5777ft £fa-fk 7-ftft7 

fcftT ftf77 6 9-71 7575 7jft7 7I75T ^7577 Tift 

3 1 fmT 1 9 7 0 ft 757 7**7T t TftfTT 'f % %7 fTfftfw: 
5R7ft ft I 

[55° 07-350 18/52/72-qft°775° 2 ( ii ) j 


S.O. 3010. — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em- 
ployees In relation to the establishment known as 
the Messrs Larsen and Tourbo and Allied Concerns 
Employees’ Co operative Credit Society Limited. L&T 
Welfare Centre, Saklvlhar Road, Bombay-72 have agreed 
that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds 
and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should 
be made applicable to the said establishment; 



484 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVlNA 19, 1894 [E ART ll~ 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
fay sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come Into 
force on the thirtieth day of June, 1970. 

[No. S. 35018(3G)/72-PF.II(i).] 

Wo Wo 30 10 — TOT WWT 4 TO 

44 ?4t £ fa> 44 TOTOT rror 4wt triT WTTFT WTOTR 
WTTO^ 4m4f4 R4fa4 filftc?, TH rrn^ 
4rWK &ZT HTPlf^R Z>3, F^fa-72 TOW’ Wm 

% totot fa4w w'wfVm 4 tor to 

TOW 4 & WTTO4 ‘Jrf4r fdftT 4 t RWT 
F4tT trfirfwr, 1952 ( 1952 W 19) % RTRR WT 
WTTR 4 NET fan; TOd 44; 

WF, TOR, TOR TOfsrPm 4 OTTO 1 4 TORT TO ( 4) 
OTTO STW 444 W 41*1 Ri 4 |tr %>s4 HRWT TOR 

'tRjF'Ttt % torht to tohtr 4 ottstg topt ft 4 | i 

TO trfspjRRT 1970 % 44 % f4 4 TOWT |f 

tlHftfl WTt4 I 

[Ro itto35018(36)/724o rrtfio 2 (i) ] 


S.O. 3011.— In exercise of the powers conferred by the 
first proviso to section 6 of the Employees’ Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
the Central Government, after making necessary en- 
quiry into the matter, hereby specifies with effect from 
the 30th June, 1970 the establishment known as Messrs, 
Larsen and Toubro and Allied Concerned employees' 
Co-operative Credit Society Limited, L&T Welfare 
Centre, Sakivihar Road, Bombay-72 for the purposes to 
the said proviso. 

[No. S. 35018(36)/72-PF.II(ii).] 


wo w° 30ii ws4 rwk w!rt4 4rw 

Frfa to 4 otw frfsr TOFsrfaRR, 1952 (1952 w 
19)4 OTTO 6 % TOR WRJF STTO 4rf 444 W 44 
4n3[ faroro *r trwT? 4ro 3 0 

3jR 197 0 *T RTTOTR 441 Ijo®' !f5T^ WT^Tf 

Hpirtor 4 1 tn4f4 4f«ff r4ts 4 Ft To 4, <707 4 
tvR5W m4 fTOr? 4r, tow wm 4 

crj^giTT TOR RTOfF % URfapff % f4j fafRfaro 4774 t I 
[r o ttr- 35018(36)/7 2-4 o 0 2 ( ii ) ] 


S.O 3012. — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment ’that the employer and the majority of the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 


Messrs. Mahaveer Drue House, A. S. Char Street, 
Bangalore-2. A and Its branch Office at, 111/2, 
Marathagath, Hubli-20 have greed that the provisions 
of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable 
to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
b v sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of January, 1972. 

LNo. S. 350 19 (62) / 72-PF.II. ] 

wo wo 3012 . — rr: %fafa rwtz 4 to 44 
?4t | fa 44 to 44 fro T° TO 0 TOR 
arwrk-2 tt tow ( 4 m TOk 111/2, wist r 4 , $wfV- 
20 r rr 4 tout % to 44 w to 4 4 far fa 4 4 
R rsrt toto r$ | far wfarrft Rfaw faftr 

toV fro* twt fafsj 444 rft, 1952 (1952 w 19) 

% RR TO TOR TOT1RR 4 TOJ^ farff w% 4 1 1?/ [ ; 

WR:, St«r, TO RftrfaRR 4 WTO 1 4 TOfTITO ( 4) 
STTO SRrT WfaWTt W 44 TOFT? $rr, %44 TOR TO 
wftlfaWT % TOTOTOST TO TON 4 ^WSTTO TOT TOTf ^ I 

TO 1972 4 4TOTO % twfFfa f4 4 

5 * wrefl wn 4 I 

[4 tnj-350 1 9 ( 62) jl 2— 4 o irqro 2)] 


S.O, 3013. Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs. Everite Sales Corporation, 35-Kamla Market, 
New Delhi, have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
b v sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come Into 
force on the first day of February, 1970. 

[No. S. 35019 (79)/72-PF.II.] 


Wo TOo 3013. — TOT: 4sf4 TOR 4 TO 
44 ^4 t t Ff 3ror trwTOE 4?r wffawr, 35 -wtto 
TO, ^ f44 TOW TOfTW ft TOTOT fTOTfaPW wf- 
wfa4 4 TO^TOTOTOT TOR W H ?! *4 ei Rf t. fa> wFto4 

1952 (l952 

W 1 9) % TOTTOI TO TOTWT 4 TOT faro TO* TOf4: 



4335 


SEC. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 


wr, w bbb rMbbr ^ urn 1 3 brtu ( 4) 

5TTT SPTR Rf'BRB't RT RBTB fB %fotR RWR BBR 
RfafBRR % BRRR RBR pnw Bit rrjpt BRT BiTfit £ ! 

B? RfffffRRT 1 9 7 0 B?t >FRTt, % RRR for B?> SpJR 
f'f ^PRTfft RTU/fit I 

[f?o rr^-35019( 79)/72- c f)'oi7Fo 2] 


S.O. 3014. — -Whereas It appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the maiority of the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs. Indian Textile, 277, Dharamraj Galli M. J. 
Market. Bombay-2 including its office at 557, Chire 
Bazar, Bombay-2, have agreed that the provisions of 
the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952). should be made applicable 
to the said establishment; 


: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


This Notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of July. 1970. 

[No. S 35019(81)/72-PF. II] 

brort° 3oi5.-BR:%RfoRTBiTCBit RRtR sf 1 ^ t 
farfo^foBR BTPRft fafRtr, 56, RBIR, TCI 

BBtl, WcRB , focTB, Rf fotft RTRBI RBFTR % BRS 
Rtr B?T W BET T( Bfihd 

| fo BRt wO RfoB ftfR sftT |OTT ^TUFT 1%ffeT 

ff fErfdB R, 195 2 ( 1952 BR 19) % WEI OT WFTB 

b?T bfj; fer ri% RTfon; ; 

Her:, er, bbb vi'dl-nn b?t error 1 B?t bwki 
( 4) ffiTT 5RR Wftrnft BR BfiFT BTOt |tr OTK 

RBR mIuPimB % "3 BBd BMl'Id B>t KT BTPJ^ B> b.ft 

I > 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty-first day of May, 1971. 


srftrgRBT 1970 *£t % pw for Bit sp^r 

BRHt RTnfort 1 

[R°CfR. 35019 ( 8 l )/7 2— "ft ° foi o 2)] 


[No. S. 360i8(44)/72-PF.II.] 
BR° Wo 3014 • — Bel-' injld 1 Tt BR BrIB 

ffor | fo whr ?iwr ^BRRrfR, 277, ?HfoRRRt,rrRo3to 
Biffor, rpr. bbrr ffor^r 557 rHt btbtt, 

RRf-2 fold OTfT BRRfBB BforfNR & % BR3T ffotlNT 
tfro Thfwforfr ^ rot'f brbr r> *rf £ fo 
wNtt> BfoR foftr ?rV fRR rutr fofo srfaforB, 1952 

( 1952 BR 19) % RRBR BBB RmR Bit BBT fo^ RTR 

BT%[; 

WT, *R, BBR iqfElfBWT B?t ETPT 1 Tt WTTB ( i) 
irrr srr Bfofor br rbIr bitb fry $fotR brrt rbb 
nfafBTR % BRRR BBB RBIRB Bit fJRgTN NF[ BTOft £ I 

BfJ Rfogwri 1971 Bit Bf % fBRtRB f?B Bit TffT 

BRTETt BTETBl' i 

[ffo iR[o 35018( 44)/72- l fto FTo 2 ] 


S.O. 3015. — Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Nippon Electric Company Limited, 56, Janpath, 
1st Floor, Alps Building, New Delhi have agreed that 
the provisions of the Employee’s Provident Funds 
and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) 0 f section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


S.O. 3016. — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em- 
ployees In relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Dey Radio Service, 168, Dharmtalla Street, 
Calcutta including its branch. Dey Radio Service, 7, 
Chandi Approach, Calcutta-13, have agreed that the 

f revisions of the Employee’s Provident Funds and 
'amily Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should 
be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, In exercise of the powerg conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, tho 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment, 

This notification shall be deemed to have come Into 
force on the thirty-first day of May, 1971. 

[No. S. 35017(29)/72-PF. II] 

BB ° W ° 3 01 6- — BR: %Bffo BTBBT B7t B? SRffo 

^tRTtfotEtf ? ^{%Bt RfaR, 168, EFDRBT {ffo 

BBRBvRT, BBB?r BIWT, ¥ ufol, 7, RWt ETsfpf, 

RWrlT— 1 3 Bp-nfad BTRBT PfilBfi RRHJ fo-iMT 

Bfo T4dlfofl' B?f °^B<WI ^RRRRT B^BB ?ft Bf | fo 

RfoR foftr Bfo JJR qfBR ffifil BftrfBBB, 1952 

( 1952 BB 19) %B 1 RR BBB BB1BB % 3fT% 

■BT%r ; 

BB.', !R, BBB RfBfBRR B^t HTTT 1 B^V BRETTO ( 4) 
5TO !RB BlfBBBf BB BBfo Bd^ ^ %RtR BTBBX BBB 
BfkfolB % BRRR BBB BBIBd Bit l[d^sl <1 NFJ BiTBt ^ I 

B? Bfa^BBT 1 9 7 1 B?t Bf ^ ^RBtB^ fol RTB 
BBBlt BT^Bt I 

[B 0 35017(29)/72-BtotTCRo 2] 



4386 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21. 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II — 


S.O, 3017. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Polyolefins Industries Limited, 5th Mile Stone 
than a Rclapur Road Thana, including its Head Office 
at Neville House Curnonbhy Road, Be I lard Estate, 
Bombuy-1, have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of November, 1967. 


rNo. S. 35017 (80)/71-PF. II] 


Wo Wo JO 17. — RR: %kR RTWT k Rf tpftci 

?k T | fa kk kfrorkfa w n'sbpR fa ° , ifak kr fak, 

SfRT R'.lRT; <]«, RTRI RRT W WMMM— ^ 

ffWRV 7H, tni RW|-1 RTRT 

0 R^re fkidT kr wfarfkf k Rgow th rtr w; 

wfaRl kkr fafa kerfkR, 1952 
( 1952 W 1 9 ) % 7WI W WEFT k HH[faiT WO 

wvr:, wi, tw kerfaRR k nm 1 k truth ( 4 ) ?trt 

RRrT hTpTcPTT W 5IRtR Rtfa gR ksftR R'C-tl 1 < ddd kbTPiM R 
rhrto w Him k tTr^sirr wk | i 

Rg kR’JHRT 1967 % H4M7 % 5T«nT fk k STfrT 

gt TPWt Wtnft I 

[RotTRo-35017( 60)/71-k° Q^°2] 


S.O. 3018. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs East India Paint & Chemicnls Works Limi- 
ted, Pendurthi, Visakhapatnam have agreed that the 
provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should 
be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first, day of December, 1971. 

[No. S. 35019(58)/72-PF,II.] 
Wo WT o 30 18. — Rd: %kR RTWT k Rif kk 

gkr | fa fak Ik IfkT fas Rkr fafRk, 

fakf, (kirai'P-HR rtht rrtrh it rtori faRfar kr 
wtrofTk k RgRW rtr w r^rr ft r| | fa wfark 


kkr farffer krJjinR fair fafa iiMot, 1952 (1952 
W 1 9) % TRHRR TO TO1HR k HRJ fad, ; 

Ref:, RR, To SffafHRR k RPR 1 k TRRPT ( 4 ) 

JRT 5R7T Nfapff W RRTR k#fa RW7 TO 

RfafadR % 7WR TO PRRR k TTL1KI HTR Rikt $ I 

Rg kkjHRT 19 71 % fkTOT % RRH fk k sr^Rf 

gl Rdk wjk 1 

[RWT "4 0 3501 9( 58)/72-'ff otrcf- 0 - 2 ] 


S.O. 3019. — Whereas It appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in re ation to the establishment known us 
Messrs Eastern Agencies Handloom House Annexe, 38 
Police Court Lane, Dadabhai Naoroji Road, Bombay-1 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ 
Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 
(19 of 1952) should be made applicable to the said 
establishment. 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of December, 1971, 

[No. S. 35018 (49)/72-PF.II.] 

W° Wo 3019- — RR: kltR RTWT k RR kfa 
giw | fa Ik fak tfafafa, ikror rthr rfak, 38- 
RfaR kt far, 3r4roT| kfak kR, ww|- 1 rtrri potft 
it ffiprg fkkn kr wfarfik k Rgrtwr k wr rt 
rifinu gt hI t fa wkrk kkr fafa kr twt 
fafu kkrow, 1952 ( 1 952 W 19) % RTTOH TO 
IRTTT k fau WR -q i far 1 

wr:, m, to kkkR k snrr 1 k ttrrt ( 4 ) 

SKT 5T?xT wf^kf W trfTT Tk RTWT ^eRT 

ksTfaq-R 41 TOU 3Lt PTm k PyRTITT RRJ kt | I 

RgkRR[TOrT 1971 %faTOTT fk k 

f| RTOft WT3[k I 

[R 0 o 3501 8( 49) /7 2-k o iirpo-2] 



SEC 3(ii)] 


4387 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1.894 


S.O. 3020. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Hindustan Shipping Company, J. K. Building, 
Narottam Morarji Marg, Ballard Estate, Bombay-1, 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ 
Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 
(19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said 
establishment; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirtieth day of September, 1970. 

[No. S. 35018 (60)/72-PF.II.] 


afiTo Wo 30 20.— Tel: TRTOR TO 4^ TOTO 0TT 

$ fa tw HfJTOTT E#ET TWTO, %o fafyw, TRt- 

wq TOrirTO wr, ttt# ipif-i to; rtow T 
ww fartw TOr TOiTTfarf TO w ror tr 
Ww TO TO 7 fa wtr> TOTOr fa fa Tor t'w 
fafa Tfafaqq - J 9 52 ( 1 9 5 2 to 19 ) % tow tot 
stow TO srnj fa.T Rfa Trffar ; 

■w w tft srfafqw ft urt 1 to twri ( 4 ) 
JRT WTT TOTO4T FT Wfa TRT §vr TOrfa rp;+K TOT 
TOsrfrW % TOW TOT WET TO ^T^JRT TOT wTO 

$ I 

41 irf^T-TT 1 9 70 % f-WTOR % TOw fw TO ST^W 

TO mm to<tTO 1 

[T°W° 3501 8( 50)/72-TOoTO; o 2 ] 


S.O. 3021. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Nicolls and Company, Karmani Building, Sir, 
P. M, Road, Fort, Bombay, have agreed that the pro- 
visions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act, 1952 (10 of 1952), should be made 
applicable to the said establishment; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirtieth day of June, 1971. 


[No. S-35018(42)/72-FF.II.] 


TOo TOo 302 i- TO: TOTOr TRTOR TO TO TOTO (flTT 
| fa TOeJ faror w TOrTO, tortoTO fafafa, tr TO® 
rtr, TOr toTO rtpr totw t tots FtTOto TOr tot- 
rofaqr TO m sw to tow TO TO | fa tottoTO 


TOTO 4 frffa TO r $£* 4 toft fafa TOs-frw, 1952 (1952 
TO 1 9 ) % TOW TORT TOTW TO TEj; fTO[ TEl ; 


w: W TORT wfafaW TO TORT 1 TO TOTORT ( 4 ) 
ITRT TORT RlfTOTO TO 44>4 *RT %TOt4 TRTOR TOT 
TOTOtW % TOW TOT TWIT TO W^STRT TEJ 
trTO I I 


4^ 4fa-yWl' 1971 % ^T % 30T fw TO TOfT ^ 

wTO to^TO 1 


[tfo (JT-35 0 1 8(42) / 72 -TOotjqjo 2 ] 


8.0. 3622. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Mahaveer Iron Works, Dharwar Road, Bel- 
gaum have agreed that the provisions of the Em- 
ployees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
th® said establishment; 


Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of March, 1972. 

[No. a 35019(55)772- FF.n.j 


TOo TOo 3 022.— W: TOiffa TRTOR TO 4? TOTO 5>TT 
| fa Wlf Tffak TTT4RT 4TO, TRTR rTO, TT4T4 TOW 

prow % tow ftTOw TOr TOfarfan TO w 

TOT 4R T^W TO TO I fa R^toTO TOfaro farfET TOr $£*4 
3w fafa TOffafaTWT, 1952 ( 1952 TO 19) % TOW 
TOT TOTW TO WEJ fair 3 jTO TOf^ ; 


W:, W, TOT tlfaftw TO H7RT 1 TO TO4RT ( 4 ) 
TRT STW TOTOTO TO Wfa TOT 1 %TO4 TRTOR TOT 
TOfar $ TOT 4 TOT TOTW TO W^TRf ^ 4TRT> | I 

4^ 1972TO4TT^WJTfwTOsrTTjf 

wTO I 


[fo qTo.350l9(55)/72TOoirq; o 2 ] 


8.0. 3025. — Whereas It appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs. Vaish Brothers, 26-Regal Buildings, New Delhi 


4388 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II — 


have agreed that the provisions of the Employees' 
Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 
(1? of 19521, should be made applicable to the said 
establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the suld Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have Come into 
force on the first day of April, 1971. 

[No. S. 35019 (82) /72-PF.II.] 


Tdo Wo 3 02 3-— TFT: Crater TTWTT FT TiT Tiffd TtdT 
| fa TT TFtf, 2 5-f fad fVfw^FT, dt 

farfaF srk FTTifadi Ft - Tpw ^t 
TTT TT TirTTcT df | fa FTTfa 'dfaT fdfa Tfa TfTTTT 

fdfa FfafdTT, 1952 (1952 ft 19 ) % ttw 

TTT FTT-Td Ft TT'[ fa" fad Tlfg" ; 


TFT FT, TFT TfafdTT Ft dm 1 F> faTTim ( 4) 
TfCt Tiff orPlTTf FT ST'-TM FTT F^Yt T /FT r . TFT 
wfafdTT % TTTET TFT fTFTd FT eTPJ_ FTcft | I 

Tg Tfa^Tdr 19 71 % srfcr, % ttt fad ft ttft 
it rrw dirrifr I 

[to ^ 1035019 ( 82 )/ 72 -fro rrepo 2J 


S.O. 3024. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of ins 
employees in relation to the established known us 
Messrs Burlingtons, Ashoka Hotel, New Delhi have 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provi- 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 
of 1952), should be made applicable to the said estab- 
lishment; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applle 8 the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April, 1971. 


[No. S. 35019(85)/72-PF.II.] 


FT° TT 0 3 024.— TT: TTTFK FT T?T TTET fafa 

| fa TfddfaT, Tffffa gfaT, faTvft dTTF PTTTd 
% TFT3 fTTIFF TTT FTTlfaTl Ft ?T fad TT 

t?tw 5 ) df £ fa fttkT ^Tf^-rar fdfa sfh; tft 
fafa TTfafdTT, 1952 ( 1952 TT 19) % fapfa TFT 
dTTTd TT fair Fpf faf^" i 


TFT TFT, ^TFT TTfafdTT UTTT 1 dfT gfafTTT ( 4 ) 

arm tth nfafar ft sfafa ftfY g" iron trt 

STfafdTT % TWT 17FT FfaTd F> ^JRT FTPT FFTT | I 

TT fardTdT 1 9 7 1 % WSPT % TTT fad FT TfaT 
gt PHTSfl" F7"TY I 


[ifa n^o 350 19 ( 85)/72-TToTTFo 2] 


S.O. 3025. — Whereas It appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Indian Press Service, 10-A, Friends Colony, 
New Delhi have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applic- 
able to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of December, 1968. 

[No. S. 35019(83)/72-PF.II.] 


FT° TTfo 3 025 .-TFT: T-ftT TTTTT FT Tg SET IT gTFTT 
| fa ^rmpr (fa dfw, 1 6-t, Turn Ffardr, d£ fadft 
diTFFTfTd It fafalf fdTfaF ?flT FTfafaTT Ft TfTTTT?T 
TTT fa TfTFT gT fait fa FTfafa Tffafa fdfa sftr H f<T I ' < 
TF T fl fa T fafdTT, 1952 ( 1952FT 19) %FTTSr FFT 
FTTTd FT F(\ fa'g Ffa FTf^" ; 

FTT:, TTT, FTTTTfafdTTFftim 1 FtdTTfaT ( 4) SRT 
JTTcT TfT TTI' Ft TTPT TTgit TTN BTFIT TTT FTfafaTT 

% ttt-t ITT mm Fr tT.T^rrr FTtfi 1 1 

To Tfa^TTf 1 9 6 8 % fcfiTTT, % STTT fad Ft 
Tf dfat Fftrift I 

[P "To 350 19 ( 83) / 72-dVo 2 ] 


S.O, 3026. — Whereas it appears ttiat the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of 
the employees in relation to the establishment known 
as Messrs Rishi Roop Udyog, Barry Market, Sadar 
Bazar, Delhi including its branch at 0/14, Kixti Nagar, 
Industrial Area New Delhi have agreed that the pro- 
visions of the Employees’ Pjovident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should 
be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the Said Act to the said establishment. 



Sec. 3(H)] 


THE GAZETTE OF TNDTA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 AS VINA 29, 1894 


4389 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of January, 1971. 

[No. S. 35019(86)/72-PF.II.] 

<Ffo ffro 302G.-RR: fPTTT RR RT>TifTTT 

t f% %Rlf ^rf>r RIFT RT%% RRR RERR, f%*rT, 

f r% tr^nf ?r 3 [RtT nett 6/ 1 4, Tftfr rtf, ?u h 7? tTfVzn-, 
r| frErV Tr ft, 4m entet T rfrn fTERE nV er- 
R7f%ff Sffv R£R«4I TN T7 R^ET if> Rf % % TTRErT 

Nf%^ffifffNYETfFrrT%TRf^^^ 1 952 ( 1952 

fir 19),% rrrr rtt **rrr %r npj f%ir snT ntTr ; 

NT:, W, TTT NfafTTR 7?t RTF 1 7% TTTT7T ( 4) 
ITT! RTF RfEPTT TT R7>T TTT TT %??%[ RTRTT RTT 
nMRTR % T'TRR TTT NTi Tf r [T?TF7 RTR TTRfV £ I 

Tfl Nfa^T-fr 1971 %tRTTEV% RRR fTT %T RTF ‘jf 

RHlft RTTnfl | 

[R o C[R— 3 5 019 (86) / 72-T% TT^2] 


8.0. 3027. — Whereas It appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees In relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Sri Raman Theatre, West Bouldeward, Pondi- 
cherry have agreed that the provisions of the Em- 
ployees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act. the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day _pf April, 1972. 

[No. S. 35019(87)/72-PF.II.l 
TTo NI° 2 02 7,-RR: %Rf>R H <R>| < %t RR RtTt R>RT 

| f% i?rr nT trn faqrr, ^ rt% RffTTfr rpee 
FREET % RER^ 1 ffiTTTPE sflT TEfNTpnff RRRRRT ?R RTT 
RT RRRR RT fif £ fR =fnf T7%r RfTW fVfN nIT Rf^NTR TUTfi 
ftfa NfafaNR 1952 ( 1952 m 19) % RRRST F7R 
?RTRT NFj; f%R 3fT% NlffR ; 

NR:, NR, TTT NfTfRRR %> NPT 1 %V RRNFT ( 4 ) 
TTTT TOT Nfwrf RT RRVR r-ft fh %EfW TFRTF ^^?T 
NftTpTTR % TERN RET TRTRn RT R'TRST’T RET RFcT £ I 

Rif NfR^NTT 1972 % N!?R % ERR %T RRN 

RRjft NP^ft I 

[To TTR-350 1 9 (87)/ 72-^0 PElo 2 ] 


S.O. 3028. — Whereas it. appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
Employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Vummidi Bangaru Chetty & Company 3, 
Nagacswara Rno Road, Madras-17 have agreed that 
the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (10 of 1952), should 
be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of March, 1971, 

[No. S. 35019/17/71-PF.II.] 


RT ° Nr o 3 02 S.-7T: RETT RTRTT R> TT RtVt gtTT 
^ PE T 7 f R (TRfy TRTE % 0 , 3, TrT RTITT nTTtr, 

R5TR- 1 7, TTRR ENTER % RTR7T fTREER Nk EjfNrfTTf 
%T TfRmr TR RTRET RENT T T Tf f% TTRETTV 'fifTW 
fnfRRVTTrm TRR faftT NfsrfRRR, 19 52 ( 197 5 Tf 
19) % TIT! TIT FTTTT %t RrfRTT ; 

NT:, NR, RET NPaffTR NRT 1 RRRTTr ( 4) 
TFT TTT TTpETTf NT TTIT TFT fir %7r>R RTTTT RTR 
NlTfH’RR % RTRN RTT ERETT tT iTT^JRr NF; TTRtV ^ | 

Rfi NfR^RTr 1 9 7 1 % RTN % RRR fTT %T NTT |f 
RRRT TTTfil I 

[Ro ITR-35019 ( 17) / 71-Tto fr^o 2] 


S, 0.3029. — Whereas It appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
emp’o.vees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Punjab Tractors Limited 10 Sector 9-A Chandi- 
garh 1 1 have agreed that the provisions of the Emp- 
loyees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 
1952 19 of 1952) should be made applicable to the said 
establishment. 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section ] of the soid Act. the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April. 1972, 


[No. S. 35019(74)/72-PF.II} 


TT o NT 0 3 02 9- NT: %^5%T RTTTT Rf Rdfa 
jftTT | f% RftT TRTR fTfRTr, 1 0 TtER 9-(t, Tftrpj 
1 1 TIRE 7RPET T RTRTET fTTTTT stfa '+4dTf%T tT R^- 
RTTT 7R RET RE RRRR T Rf I f% tTntT fTftr %fr 
T^R %7R fTfEJ NfTfTOTR, 1952 ( 1952 TT 19) 
% RRRN RTR RTOET %t RTR fW RtT | 



4390 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


LFaju II- 


NT:, NT, *FT NfsifTTN Ft TRT ^ 1 ETJTTT ( 4)^TT 
SHTOT FllFTTf FT 5PTtT FR?T §q %?^tT IRFiR TFT 

TRJ FTT# f 1^ 

T^NfggNTT 1972 % nnt, % sm fTT Fit NTTft] 
iraift sntT’ft 1 

[tfo qE-3S019(74)/72-4to q^>o 2] 


S.O. 3030. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Ajitmal Kanhaiyalal, 154, Jamunalal Bazaz 
Street Calcutta-7 including its branch at 86, New 
Cloth Market, Ahmedabad have agreed that the pro- 
visions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should 
be made applicable .to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act. to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of July, 1971. 

[No. S. 35017 (41) /72-PF.H.] 

FTogrTo 30^0 — FT: tpfRr RTFR Tt tRT TTk flTT f 
ft? tfoTlaud <dMT 154, FPTTT vlltt 

TOFF Rk FTRFxfT 9TPFT 86 RJ «F?tT RTFR, 

nsnttttf $ I, ttrf? Rim if srgssr frrtTFt Nk 
FTTTTkrf f?T tiffstt rt trt ft n?nt gt t# t 
ft? Nfkr frfr Nk f?^t mnr frfr NfrftrN, 

1952 ( 1952 W 19 ) TFT RITFT Ft TRJ 

f+q <4 it ■Flf(-R> ; 

NT:, ITT, RFT NftifdFT Ft OTTT 1 Ft 3TOET (4) 
TTRT NTT Tftrrf FT TTtT F?rt fir NTF?R TFT 

NfaftrT %TFTHTFTRrmFt qdFFTRT vmj F?Tft 1 1 

ft NfaqrrT 1971 Ft ?f=rr£ % TFrfkt f^r Ft 

NFtT gf TTTTJrt | 

r [*r°qN- 35017 ( 4 l)/ 72 -<t oqFJo 2 ] 


9 - 0 / 3031. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the emp'oyer and the majority of the 
emnlovees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs T. T. Investments and Trades Private Limited, 
3 Cattedial Road. Madras including its Factory at 
Tanfex Wallen on° Road. Taniavur have aereed that 
tv, e rrovisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and 
Family Pens ; on Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should 
be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now. fho-efore. In exercise of the powers conferred 
bv sub-section (4> of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of January, 1972. 

[No. S. 35019(7)/72-PF. II. J 


FTo NTo 303 l.-TT: %rstT TTFTT fill Tg STTk T>dT| 
ftrzVo^o RTRifeqsT ffT TTf TT fkfNtr, 3 
"Cls, T 3 RT, ftfR% iMfid d'-dt+i, d hid TT ltd, 
Tt dNK fRTT TEFT~FTWTTT Nf TTTF? PFTFT % RPTTR 
ftrtTF? Nk TRTrforf Ft dgTWT IF TO It TgNT 
gt »rf | ft? F?NTRkNft«r ftfr NtTfsiT tot frftr 

NfafTTN 1952 ( 1952 FT 19) tiTFd'gTFT RRFTFt. 
NRT ft?q Tit TTfgq ; 

nt:, nt, eft NfgftrN Ft snrr 1 Ft Tiam (4) 
TTm STtT F^iPff TT STTtT FTTtgq %??TT TTFTT TFT 
STfjfdTR % TTTT TFT RTIFT Fit t^TTRT TFT 
FT?# | I 

Tf NfsrqjTTT 1 972 % TTFTt t? TOT fTT Ft NfTT 
ft ENSlt TtqoVi 

[RoqRo 3501 9( 7)/72-4t oqqRo 2 ] 


S.O. 3032. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Edde, 3-N, Janpath, Cannaught Place, New 
Delhi have agreed that the provisions of the Emplo- 
yees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 
1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the 
said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of February, 1971. 

[No. S. 35019(38)/72-PF. II.] 

FT°Tr°3032. — TTrTOTtTTnTTTFitTf TcflT fRlT 1 1% 
ft, 3-qr, tttt fttt t ?rf jnrrr ftftt % 

TOTT fTTtrrf Tk TTTrfTTf Tr TfTWT f*r trt 

t| I ftr Rft^r frfT sfk ^yrr Mg-ftfr- 

fTTT, 1952 ( 1952 FT 19) % TTTOT RTO FTTTT F?t 

NRJ, fFiq Tit TTffT ; 

NT:, NT, TFT NfsrfTTT TRT 1 TTTTTT ( 4) 
THT TTOT TfFTTf TTtfi FRt |T %RtT TOR TFT 
NfgfTTT % TFT?T TFT FTTTT F?t qTTfKT TT^FR^ | I 

T^NfTfTTT l971%FRRt%TTTfTTF7tT^Ti^ 
WTlfr vTlTRft I 

[TWrqTo 35019 ( 3 8 ) / 7 2-*ft • ^Fio 2 ] 


3m. _3(ii)J 


THE GAZETTE Of INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/A3VINA 29, 1S94 


ilfl 


S.O. 3033. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority o f the 
employees in re’ation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Nuart Press 57-53 H. G. Road, Gamdevi 
Bombay-7 have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 09 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section 14) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of July, 1971. 

[No. S. 35018 (531/72-PF, II.] 

TTo STTO3033. — T^fo^TTfTTT^TTTfoTfftTr 
& for, 5 7-58 ttt° foofor, iftrfoft, ijrrf ■ 7 

Tim ?tttt 4 4^1 ffortm sftr ^TTfforf Tjftf’STT 
WTPT'RTSmfoTf ^ Tffor fTfo 

fdfsr ‘TfafforT, 1952 ( 1952 TT 19 ) 

PfW d I J ff>(( d 1 TTf$T[ ; 


srr:, m, cW TfsrfforT 1 # twttt ( 4) 

STITT TTT wfaTTf TT TTtT fnft (TT+'I C HTT 

fWr % TTTRT RTT TTFTT ’Pt TTP^TTrcft' ^ | 


tt 1971 ^ ^pfort ffor 

t^t gf TRirfr 1’ 


frfwrr^o 35018 ( 5 3)/72-fo» rrTio 2 )] 


S.O. 3034.— Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Sri Gajalakshml Theatre Private Limited, 
Tiruppur. Coimbatore hove agreed that the provisions 
of the Employees' Provident Funds and Family Pen- 
sion Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made 
applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore. In exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have coma into 
force on the first day of December, 1971. 

[No. S-35019/10/72-PF. II.] 
TT o STTo 3 0 3 4. — TT- 1 %TrtT RFfTF TT Tfor TtriT 

% f% fo TTTvfo fofor tit for frfr?T frrrr, 

*3TT TPTF TTTTT RFTTT ffoftm STfo ^TTffoff Tf- 
^faTT TT TTT TT R7TTT fo Tf t ^ TTfr trffor ftfe *ftT 

«ptxt forr fafr Tftrfwr. 1952 ( 1952 fir 19) % tt- 

IHT TTT ?TTTT Tt HF[ ffoj TT^T -I I ; 


*ET.', m, T3tT vftrfTTT f?t tJTTT 1 fft SWTT ( 4) 
TTlforTfcRlfVlfo TT TTVT ?rr %pflT RT.TTT gin rfa- 
ftmryy'FFX TTT7TTTT TT mgin NT’] | I 

srffojTTT 1 9 7 1 % ffoHTT % T*TT ffor T^cT ff 
StRTifr I 


[fosTT 1PT o 35019 ( 10)/72-'f[o tjfio 2)] 


S.O. S035,— Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment., known ni 
Messrs. National Chemicals, Handloom House Annexe, 
38 Police Court Lane. Bombay-1, have agreed that the 
provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Ach 1952 (19 of 1952), should be 
made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now therefore in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provision* of 
the said Act, to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of December, 1971. 

[No. S-35018/28/72-PF.II.] 


‘ TToiTTo 

font fom JFfawH, forwtr Tran 38 -$Ihh 

fitJ TjRir— l, TTm PiiH'i *64- 

TlfHTf IRT TFT TT TTTT fo Tf | f% TTfTT{t 

3frffo^ir ffofw ffoftr ssTferfforrH-, 1952 (1932 
TT 1 9) % BTT FTPTT Tt <TP£ 'TT^ TT%t I 

?rt:, tt, btt HfsrfrnT # srrrr 1 5ft rwtt ( 4) 
3TTT TTfT TlfttlTf TT TTRl qtT^' ^tt fojfq* TTTTT TTT 
fTTT % \3 l -M r Er TTT FdTTT 'Tt t[TT5TTr HPJ ^ I 

TftT^TTT 1 97 1 % fr^FTT, % ffor fit T^TT 

jf HTlft | 


[Ro tnT-35018(28)/72-4tctyEo 2] 


New Delhi, the 1 0th Avgust, 1972 

S.O, 3036, — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Precision Optics & Machineries (Private) Limi- 
ted P-28, Graham Land, Calcutta-40 including its fac- 
tories No. 1 Bonhooghly, Industrial Estate, Shade E/1, 
Block-1. Calcutta-35 and Fac + ory No. II, P-20, Graham* 
Land. Calcutta-40 have agreed that the provision* of 
the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act 1957 09 of 1952), should be made applicable 
to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the power* eonfered 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of th* said Act, tb* 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II — 


4392 


Central Government hereby applies Ihe provisions of 
the said Act, to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come Into 
force on the thirtieth day of June, 1971. 

fNo. S-35017(35)/72-PF,II(i).] 
16 SPTfcT 197 2 

TTf 0 W 0 3 036 — tTcT: 77 

wfem q>R TpjiVfbr IVPr^y, 

'ft- 2 6 77717 ^ , ‘r’rd.Trr- 4 0, w % +'l <'3 Ml 70 1 

, ihf 1 5<TT s fT — 1 TIH'tiTTi— 

35 771 fFTOl #0 2 'fto 26 7R7 7^ TrTTTiTr -40 
ff f nq fH cT 7776 RTT77 TOES' faiffTT? tfk ^7 *4 rr<Afl' 
Tft JtfTwr ?7 eft <tt eft 7f % % Tnfwft tHet ffifg- 

vftx tfte wr %f«r trftrPm, 1952 ( 1952 77 19 ) 

% ttsrt 747 rtfr 7?r tt>j feq wf$if ; 

WF, 77, 777 wftjlWT 7?V TRT 1 7?t 7W17T ( 4) 

JRT TET 3 l f3 7 7t "PT WFT RTf JtT 7W1 777 

wfsriwr %■ ttttt 777 wm 7?r qTTTRT tpt 

TfwjTrr 1971 % 77 % rflTf fe7 RtTfcr gf 

77 # 7Tq*ft 1 

[70 q7-35017(35)/72-<fto qT°2(i)] 


S,0. 3037. — Whereas It appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer- and the majority of the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment Known as 
Messrs. Crystal Chemicals, 38 Police Court Lane, Port 
House, Bombay-1, have agreed that the provisions of 
the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable 
to the said establishment; 

Now therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act, to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of December, 1971. 

[No. S. 35018/33/72-PF.II.] 

rpToSTTo 3 03 7 — 77: u ltd 7 7?F TJ JpiYff $7T 

% #t 4 f7777 ^Pw^T, 3 8, 3 ) Pi€ 7ft£#7, $Mti, 

1 fiTTF PTfiPT 71 fTTtTTl Tnf’TTfprf 7^- 
*fwr q7ET7 'RTOTT jft 7^ $f7T I ■Ci ffiftj 
sftrsjTTC? -^17 ftfiJ ^rfsrfwr, 1952 (195277 19) 
% TT77 777 P7TTT Rf BTqfTTt I 

WT:,71T,777 TTftjlWT 7?t URT 1 Tit 7WT (4) 
JFT 777 ETfTTTf 77 TTW TTTf jq 7T77T 777 

^f^p 1 iws 777 77T77 vt qT^JTTT WT*^*PTcfV $ I 


^TftPJTTT 1971 % ft7 ^ 

7^7 ^ 77?ft Wq^ft 1 


(7c q7° 35018( 33)/7 2— 'ft oqT o 2 ] 


S.O, 3038. — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs. Mahendra J. Shah, Syrian Church Road, Coim- 
batore- 1 have agreed that the provisions of the Em- 
ployees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now therefore in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act, to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April, 1072. 

[No. S,35019(89)/72-PF.II(i).] 


77 o Wo 3 038 77: %Ffl7 f{ 1777 Tt 7$ Tf(7 

ftTr £f% 47>f wet, ffrfnpT fry, vtJTwjFq- 

RTW Fim it RTSTff PpfNTi 7^- 

tfmrr Rfw fvrfk 

Prftr ?rfiif^TWT, 1952 (1952 w 19 ) 

% 7RT FTFFT Tit ^ 1 

>77:, >77, 51^777 <t tTRT 1 T?t B7WTT 

(4) THT 7TrT T7 77>T ^q %nft7 

7TTTR 777 trfVr777 % TRT FfiTFT Tit qfT^- 

SPT RTdt | I 


1972 % % 777 f?I7 <Ft 7<fT 

$ TTfft Trrqjfr I 

[tfo q7o 35019(89)/72- J ftoq7i 2 (i)] 


S.O. 3039. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
first proviso to section 6 of the_ Employees’ Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
the Central Government, after making necessary en- 
quiry into the matter, hereby specifies with effect from 
the 30th June, 1971 the establishment known as Messrs 
Precision Optics and Machineries (Private) Limited. 
P-28, Grahams Land, Calcutta^lO including its Factory 
No. 1 Bonhooghlv. Industrial Estate, Shade E/1, Block-1 
Cfllr-utta-38 and Factory No. II P-26, Grahams Land, 
Calcutta-40 for the purposes of the said proviso. 


[No. S-3B017/35/72/PF-II(il).J 



Sec. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASV1NA 29, 1894 


4393 


fiobt° 303 9— foffa trftt Ffarft Bfawr fafy 
tfT ??et faftr wferr^nrR-, 1952 (1952 19 ) 

ft arc 6 % sttr jrrr tut Bfafalr ft tfafa ftb 
|Q[, TUFT farq-^r it BTFWF BTF FTT % 30 FT, 

1971 % sfaffaff tmr HtfFrffa fafafa, 

ft- 2 e trr?F fbfbt 40 fawlfaBFTFnTiETT ET^q-r 1 

ttt-j it it, f/ 1 , jetf— 1 , mwf- 3 5 
ffBT FITTER %®TT 2 'ft-26 tTT?H RW, FRFRT-40 
HfWTf^RT $ I RETF TIFET Ft t^ff^STT RFT R7*^F % 
sfafaE-rt % far? fafafccr qrccfV $ i 

[%W tJff-35017 (35)/72->fto TJF-2 (ii)3 


S.O. 8040. — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment known us 
Messrs. Anand Wire Netting Company, 47 SldhDura 
Industrial Estate, Masrani Lane, Kurla Bombay-70 nave 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
should be made applicable to the said establishment. 

Now therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act, to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of October, 1971. 

[No, S-35018/26/72-PF.II.] 

^otrroiio 40— nd: %?tet rtftt ft it? sr-ffa ?1 ti $ 

fa RTF BTFR TTTT Fo, 47, fOTJTT Xf&S, 

R^nrpf\^,^TBT,^^-70dTWPTm%TlTTlI fFTfaF 
flfa FTTTfaF Ft F|TWT W BET TC TT?Rd ?f | fa 

Fifarf r *rfaar farfar rK Tdd fafa Rfsrfaw, 1952 

( 1952 W 19) % dW wm Tif Tfij; fli^ 

bt% Rif?'? ; 


STd:, RT, W RfafaW FT RPCT 1 FT FTSTITr ( 4) TRT 
TTrT FfacEH FI sfarq FFT ^Pjfa WE TFT RfyfFTR 
^ 3W TFT RIFTT Ft TF^nT BET FFR | I 


R? srftr^BdT 1971 % % TF(ffRF fad Ft 

sr^n wrt Rufat i 

[4» dEo-35018(26)/72-'fio trqjo-2] 


S.O. 3041. — In exercise of the powers conferred 
by the first proviso to section 6 of the Employees’ Pro- 
vident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 
of 1952), the Central Government, after making neces- 
sary enquiry into the matter, hereby specifies with 
effect from the 1st April, 1971 the establishment known 
aa Messrs World Feature Services Ltd.. 51-Babar 
Road, New Delhi-1 for the purposes of the eaid pro- 
viso, 

[No. S. 35019 (84)/72-FF.II (ii) J 


ft° ?rro 3041 — btftt FFFTt Rifr 

fdfsr iffa TFT fdfir Rfafaw, 1952 (l 95 2 FI 

1 9 ) dir urt 6 % ddd fsrf sru 5T?fr srfaddr Fr tut 

FTR I'd, FFT fad T d 51TW Bfd F r T F 'ITF!^ 
1 1971% dd% FFF fadd dfafad fdo-51 

REFT ft?, dffavdT-1 RTFF TFIET Ft ^T^Kf BIT 
TTFJF % ddlddf % fair fafafaB FTTI $ I 

[do ^ffo35019(84)/72-dl'o tJFo-2(li)] 


S.O. 3042. — Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of 
the employees in relation to the establishment known 
as Messrs Estate Babu Lai Agarwalla, 169-A. Maha- 
tma Gandhi Road, Calcutta-7 including its Temples 
and Chhattar at 190, Mahatma Gandhi Road, Calcutta 
and at Atkhamba, Vrindaban, District Mathura 
Uttar Pradesh and Pucca Tola at Ramsitapara, Nabad- 
wip. District Nadia have agreed that the provisions of 
the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952) should be made applica- 
ble to the said establishment; 

Now therefore, in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by sub-section (4) of Section 1 of the said Act, 
the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirtieth day of September, 1970. 


[No. S. 35017(39)/72-PF.II,] 


HT° 3042 — FT: F ; 3TR RFFTT Fr IT? RTfa 
?>TT | fa BIB TIB STITTBr, lfiO-'T, BiTEEr 

nttfr TTf, TTBWr-7 TTf S-fa fap'T T ftl 3TfTr-i90, 
PoTW Fttff TTf, TBEfTT TEH Um^J, T-TETT, faTBT 
E«TTT, BrTT 5T%!T BIT 94 TT FfB— TETRrffTTTTr BBTfaT, 
fBBT filfaBT, BETB’ PTFET % BWcf faftBT BT qrifarfaff 
# RiiTT BTff T Ff % fa FTTfat BfaT 

1952 ( 1952TT 19) 

% 7W TFT TTETB Ff fat[ BIT Brfan; ; 


TFT:, m, TFT Bfafaw FT BTU 1 9% TTtJTT (4) 

?tt snrr wfanfr w btet |q %;arfa ttt 

Bfafaw % TTTBT TFT ?qrTT F> ITT BT| FTTf 

t ' 

!T? BfagTBT 1 970 % fadTST % 3 0T fad" FT 

TETSlV BltTifl - I 

[%o 3 5 0l7(39)/7 2— 'ffa t^o-2] 



4394 


[Part ft— 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1072/ASVINA 29, 1694 


S.O. 3043, — Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of 
the employees in relation to the establishment known 
ns Messrs World Feature Services Ltd. 51-Babar Road, 
New Delhi-1 have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952) should be made applicable 
to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore in exercise of the powers con- 
fered iby sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, 
the Central Government hereby applies the provi- 
sions of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come Into 
force no the first day of April, 1971. 

[No. S. 35019 (84) /72-PF.II (i) .] 

EEo CTTO30 43— tRT: ’fasftE TWIT 'P'T EETE 
fa EEff EFi fawC fao 5 1 ETET E^ fecvft 1 

eteet prpET ems Ppfl>j|+ wk e>'4et(\et Eft 

TIT EFT ET E^EcT | fa EpEEFft fl-fastj fftfg 5fk 
qfkrn: fair fftfa wfsrfftEE, 1952 (1952 ee 19 ) % 

T+d ■FETEE Eft TTE r faT[ '41'} | 

WT:, WE, TET wfftfftEE Eft 9RJ 1 Eft TEETH ( 4) 
3TH MET HkTET EE EEtE ERxT %X EHTE ETEET tjrfcT 
WfafEWE ^ TWEET TEE P?iTT Eft peTERT WTE, ERcft I I 

E$ 197 1 % EEW % ME far Eft WJtT 

%i HEfft ^repft I 

q[E-35019( 84)/72-'ftot3[ t Tiv2(l)] 


S.O. 3044. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs D. K. Stores Agency, 10E, Gopal Lai Tagore 
Road, Calcutta-30 have agreed that the provisions of 
the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applica- 
ble to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of Section 1 of the said Act. the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the Thirty firit day of December, 1970. 

[No. S-35017 /30/72-PF. II] 

EEo OTo3044 — EE: %HlE TOR Eft EE wftE fftfiT 
| faETR? sfto %o *fRf rr^Rfr, i of, ftlETW TRT iftk Tfa, 
EETTdl-36 ETET TETTE % EMJ fdElTE? WR TEETfkft 

Eft Jnjwrr te ett er h?ee §ft Ef | fa EEhrft wfaar 
fftfa 4 eie fftFE wfarfftEE, 1952 (1952 ee 

1 9) % TWEET TEW PENT Eft TP] fair ^jf^T | 

*W:, WE, TEE WfafftEE Eft ETTT 1 Eft EWTE ( 4) 
4RT 5TTTT RtfatEf EE EEftE ERft %nftE WTEfR TEW 
WfufdEE % TEEW-T TEE RTTWW Eft itWETRT WTE ERcft | I 

wfa^WET 1970 Tt fafRET % SEEftwft fat Eft 

ST^T ft «T*Tffa ETTHfr I 

[Eo TJWo 35017(36) / 72 J fto^E’° 2 ] 


S.O. 3045. — In exercise of the powers conferred 
by the first proviso to section 6 of the Employees' 
Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1052 
(19 of 1052), the Central Government, after making 
necessary enquiry into the matter, hereby specifies 
with effect from the lBt April, 1972. the establishment 
known as Messrs Mahendra J. Shah, Syrian Church 
Road, Coimbatore-I for the purposes of the said pro- 
viso. 

[No. S. 35019(80) /72-PF.II(ii).] 
EEo WTo3045 — WwftE WTEEE «RTErft EfkE fftfsT 
Wk J£RT ftSR fftfa WfafWEW, 1952 ( 1952 EE 19 ) 
4ft WRT 6 % ME EHfTT JRT EEW WfEWEt EE EETE ERft 
5ft, WM5 faM $ ETEWF Tfa ERft % ETER^ 1 wH 
1972 ft 4 EE E^/S' fto RITf, fftfkiE wft Pfa, Edq^Ed^R 1 
ETEET PEfEE Eft E(R5TH TEE TGJET ^ EEtTfit 
IVfEtkT ERrft $ I 

[^o<TE° 35019(89)/72 J fr*lTE;o2(ii)] 


New Delhi, the 89 rd August 1972 

S.O. 3046. — Whereas M/s. Biological Evans Limited, 
Bombay-1 has been amalgamated with M/s. Evans 
Medical Limited, and the new company is called 
M/s. Biological Evans Limited, Das Chambers, situated 
at Dalai Street, Bombay-1 (hereinafter referred to as 
the said establishment); 

And whereas the appropriate Government In respect 
of the said establishment is the Central Government 
for the purpose of grant of exemption under section 
17 of ihe employees' Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952) as the said con- 
cern hus its branch at Calcutta. 

And whereas the Government of Maharashtra has 
cancelled their earlier notification No. EPF/ 1165/Lab.l, 
dated the 17th August, 1905 Issued under Section 17(1) 
of the Employees' Provident Funds and Family Pen- 
sion Fund, Act, 1952 (19 of 1952) exempting M/s. 
Biological Evans (Pvt.) Limited, Cooks Building, 
324, D. N. Road, Bombay vide their notification No. 
EPF/1171/148743/Lab.l, dated the 9th November, 
1971 to enable the Central Government to grant exemp- 
tion to M/s. Biological Evans Limited, Das Chambers, 
Dalai Street, Bombay-1. 

And whereas in the opinion of the Central Govern- 
ment, the rules of the provident fund of the said estab- 
lishment with respect of the rates of contribution are 
not less favourable to the employees therein than those 
specified In section 0 of the said Act, and the employees 
are also In enjoyment of other provident fund benefits 
Which on the whole are not less favourable to the 
employees than the benefits provided under the said 
Act Or under the Employees’ Provident Funds Scheme, 
1952 (hereinafter referred to as the said Scheme) in 
relation to the employees in any other establishment of 
a similar character; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by claus e (a) of sub-Se'Ctlon (1) of section 17 of the 
said Act, and subject t& the conditions specified In the 
Schedule annexed hereto, the Central Government 
hereby exempts the said establishment, with effect 
from the 10th November, 1971 from the operation of 
all the provisions of the said Scheme and in pursuance 
of sub-section (3) of the said section 17, the Central 
Government hereby directs that: — 

(a) the employer In relation to the said establish- 
ment shall pay within fifteen clays of the close 
of the month to the Employees’ Provident 
Fund, inspection charges at the rate of 0.09 
per cent (zero . point zero nine per cent) of 



4395 


Sec. 3(ii)j 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


the pay (basic wages, dearhess allm.ance, 
retaining allowance, if any, and cash vuh.e of 
food concession admissible thereon) lor the 
time being payable to the employees oi the 
said establishment who would have become 
members unem cnc said Scheme but lor this 
exemption; 

(b) the said employer shall invest the provident 
fund contributions in accordance with the 
directions issued by the Central Government 
from time t 0 time. 

The Schedule 

1. The employer shall submit such returns to the 
Regional Provident Fund Commissioner asi the Central 
Government may, from time to time, prescribe. 

2. The employer shall furnish to each employee an 
annual Statement of Account of Pass Book. 

8. All expenses involved in the administration of the 
Fund including the maintenance of accounts, submis- 
sion of accounts and retuns, tranfer of accumula- 
tions, payment of Inspection charges etc., shall be borne 
by the employer. 

4. The employer shall display on the Notice Board 
hf the establishment a copy of the rules of the Fund 
a s approved by the appropriate Government and, as x 
and when amended, along with a translation of the 
salient points thereof in the language of the majority of 
the employees. 

5. Where an employee who Is already member of the 
Employees’ Provident Fund (Statutory Fund) or the 
Provident Fund of another exempted establishment is 
employed in his establishment, the employer shall 
Immediately enrol him as a member of the Fund of the 
establishment, and accept the past accumulations! in 
respect of such employee and credit to his account. 

6. The employer shall enhance the rate of provident 
fund contribution appropriately if the rate of provi- 
dent fund contributions for the class of establishments 
in which his establishment falls is enhanced under the 
Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 so that the benefits under the provident fund 
scheme of the establishment shall not become less 
favourable than the benefit provided under the Em- 
ployees' Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1052. 

7. The establishment shall submit an audited balance 
Kheet of its provident fund every year to the Regional 
Provident Fund Commissioner within 3 months of the 
close of the year. 

8. No amendment of the rule s of the provident fund 
•hall be made without the previous approval of the 
Central Provident Fund Commissioner. Where any 
amendment is likely to allect adversely the interests 
of the employees, the Central Provident Fund Commis- 
sioner shall, before giving his approval, give a reason- 
able opportunity to the employees to explain their 
point of view. 

Memorandmn 


M/s. Biological Evans Limited, Cooks Building, 
324, D. N. Road, Bombay is a covered establishment 
under the Employees’ Provident Funds & Family Pen- 
sion Fund Act, 1952. The State Government of Maha- 
rashtra vide their notification No. EPF/1165/LAB/1, 
dated th e 17th August, 1965 granted exemption under 
Section 17(1) (a) of the Act to the above establishment. 
Consequent on the company’s shifting of the office and 
amalgamation with M/s. Evans Medical Ltd-, Bombay 
the whole office is housed at Das Chamhers. Dalai 
Street, Bombay and acquired net work of branches/ 
departments in different States, This has changed the 
status of the establishment so far as the appropriate 
Government under Section 2(a) of the Act is concerned 


and the State Government has cancelled their earlier 
notification dated the 17th August, 1965 vide their 
notification No. EPF/1171/148743/Lab.l, dated the 9th 
Novemoer, 1971 to enable the appropriate Government 
namely the Central Government to grant exemption 
under Section 17(1) (a) of the Act to the newly formed 
establishment M/s, Biological Evans Limited, Pas 
Chambers, Dalai Street, Bombay-1. 

Now while issuing a formal notification the Govern- 
ment of lhdia hereby makes it clear that the Intel ests 
of no person would be adversely affected by reason of 
this formal" notification taking effect from 10th Novem- 
ber, 19W. 

[No. 11/60/67-PF. 1L] 
ff-ft, 2 1 smfi 19 72 

TT° SRa 30 46. — ffff: ffffff 
ffo 4^ fqvr 4ff'TT %o %■ *rr«7 frffrtrfaff 

ft Tf f kV t? Ti-ift tt 4rff f^ff 

fvTc , Tiff ffW, rfz 97 1 (fff4 Xfiif 

C<T% ffTTTff TFT Eqiffff 4TT |) WT £ ; 

Tfk 7cL Tiff Tift 'ffffcff ffffa tftX fTPff fffrff frfa 
HfSifTTff, 1952 ( 1952 Tff 19) Tit ETRr 1 7 tfr srftff 
733 ffRjff TR^t % ffftTTT % ftfir, TTfi WffTff Tit 
’TFTT TiffTff if ft 7T7 r»tm ^ 444 if fffffffff ?RTiR 
Tffftff fRFR t I 

5ft T TT: ffiTRP^ 4RFR 4 TiffffRt ffffa ifV 

fffff fffsfffffff, 1952 ( 1 952 T4 1 9) Tit 

4R1 17 ( 1 )% 4fft4 >TRt T?t fii Tlfffft £443 4ffH£T4T 
^0 £0 T(e itfio llbo/’SHT-i, ffRtrr 17 5T4RT, 196 5, 
fffftr ?mt 4f4444T 4° f ° fft° r^Fo 1171/148743 

aiff-1, fiTTtg - 9 ■TTE'R, 197 1 TT 44477 Tit fit 444 

TT4'7tfF‘F4 f-TRT (fffe) ffffffffT, fT4 3 2 4, 

ft* tt.|L TR, Tff BJ 3 fff TTvft 4ftT444r, ffrffa 

4RFR Ft #7# fflffftfffW ffiRT ffffffTF, TT4 

5J(3, ffifff-1 FT 753 74 Tit 4<ITff fffffft % farr 
TR fffffr 41 I 

5ft7 <TT: T^Ttff 4TFR T?t Rff A 4f4TT4 Ft ffff Fff 
4144 7TT £4144 % 'fffFff ffiRl Fff-T4 74% Fff TTfffqff 
F PT'T 74 friffT ff Tiff 4TF4 471 % 41 717 4 iff fff Tff Ft 
STRr 6 ff frfffFffe f , TnNRt fffT^T ffffa Tit 4^4 

fffffffsmf 4t ffl t, ffft TTffTTfRff % ftlff fff4TF4 

Tff A Tiff WffTi/ff fflft isfl, Tffft ffTTR f^rf r 

^Tm % T^ffrfVfff % ffffsr if, rtt % 

4(ftff 5fk Tiff^Tfft ffFfffff f4fff FTitff, 195 2 (faff fffff 
tr ff7^T7; Iff 4 FTitff TRT 4TT t ) % HSfftff ft FT, ft t ; 

■ffff:, 5TT, ffffff TlftTfffffff FI ffTR 1 7 Tit TTSfffff ( 1 ) 
(ffi) 4fTr ff Iff wfffTffT Tff ffftff TTffff | CT ?fR 
7 Tiff, 7 5T^^[ft ff ffffifR3 Wf % WJM TgA |rr, %f-i, 
IRTilff 7Tff ^TTffff Tit 7T4 TTitff ^i ffft Wat % ffTff ff 



439^ 


THE GAZETTE OE INl)lA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II — 


% HEfJTTF 1 0 44*4?, 1 9 7 1 ft SFE ftft £ 5 tY? E4E ET?T 

17 4ft E4HFTF (3) ft TEEm ft ftMt E?4E? OEffF?T 

fftftr Mr | fT — 

(p) ft4E PTTE ft ERa FEeTEP EPT T'TH' 
ft EE EeNtFrY 4ft, ftt eFt WZ 4“ ftt 4f 
ftftt EF, 4W PptE ft 5FEtE ETRT ft Ef 
f'tft, M E4 E4E % (EFETfREEfFt, 
ftfElft EfTT, TFtERE EHF, Efft fttf ft, 
fttf EE <1< EEEE ’EM f?4T4E 4 E E4R 

<9 

JJ*E) 0.09 (4R4 E4FEE4 ERE eY Mw) 
ftt ET ft FoMfE-TEFE ETEFE4 % Tiff 

FEEftftYETpftEFEVEfER FeFepY £et: 

(jj) EPT fftftftrp eFTr ftrfsr EfftTrftT 4ft, 
ftftYr ERE? EFR EEE EEE T? FE4Eft 40. 
fftftsff ft EEEFE, ftrftrffcr 4ftET I 

sr^ftt 

1 . fftfttupp snftfw eFee Me stfe/te ftt ft Fpr- 

foiqt ftftET Fee? ftftYr ere? ere eee te 
fftf^E pft I 

2. fftftYspP T#P MerV 4ft Erfftp ftEIT-fftmE El 

TTE fp ftftET I 

3. fftfE ft TETEE, fftEE ft^TEf 44 EEIf -R3ET, 

ftllTEt EtT FE4EfftET 44 ftM ETEF, ftMY 44 

5PERT, fETtlfPE-EETftt EfFe PF EETE EfrEfftE 
* 

f, ft WREfftE Eftt R4t 44 EfE F-TEtEE ERT 
fftET EpfEr I 

4. fftfttfT4T EEtEE ERE? 3RT EEEYfftE Ftfft ft 

fE 4444404 Efft **TTTE ft ^EEF-TEE TT SRfftrT 
eYYet ftYo EE pftt EEft ftfttEE fftET ETfET 
ET 4rftETfrftf ftt EfEEET 4ft ET4T ft EEpt 
1J11PT W ERtf 44 EEETE ftt TEfftE pM I 

5. eFe fttf ^EF tMI, ftt pftElftt eMe FiFe 

( 4 Pjftt fftfar) ET BFE-SPE fpftt ER E4TEE 
4ft EfER ftfsT 44 4f ft ft ft EETE |, EE% 

rtee ft fftfttfftE eYef | ftt ftrftM ?ette ftt 
fftFsr ft ERE ft PT ft EEPF 4TE EfE ft EE 
ftM ftt? ft ft PTEKF 4ft EFEE 4E% F4®ft 
EEftt ftt T4t44T 4R ft E^f' EEft Mt ft EET 

ftM I 

6. Efft EE 44 ft TEPTftf ft f'4f, fftEft fftftMp 44 

TEIEEETEr ft, ftftr FtFe ft eFeMT 4ft 44 
EEErfr 'eFer ftiftr fttr ftftpr FeHt 
^• ftrfftEE, 1952 ft Mftr EfT ftt ETf ftt 


fETtEP 'EFe^E fftfa ft EfEElftf ftt E4 EffEE 
144 ft EiT ft4T Erfft EETEE ftt «#4 ftffE MtE 
ft Esffti ftt E-jIftETO E4 EEfftETET ft 4TE 
?PJEE E ft Elf fEnftft £E4TET EEERt EfE^E 
fEAJ fttT T44 TEE fftfa srfftfEEE, 195 2 
ft EEtn I I 

7. PETTE ETEt EfM fEfE 44 ETftfME EHE-TE 

fr 44 ETftfM eMt fftFE E1E4E ftt 44^4 
ft fttE ErE ft EtET EE4T I 

8, EME FeFe fEEEf ft fttf Eft ftMlE ftftftr Ef4 T 4 

fftfft EI^4E ft gft E^ETEE ft fftET FtEI 
ETfET I Eft fftftt ftftmE ft TEElfTftt ft fM 
TT EfftTE EET4 TfET E'EFE fft Eft ftiftil 
Ef4W fftfE EIE4E, ETE 1 EEE144 ftft ft ^4, 
iEElfftftf 4ft E'TET fMftTE T 4 R 44 ft 41 
4f44E4E E4ET fET I 

S3 4> 


ETTE 

EEft ETEEtfftEE fEFEdT, fEE FeMe, 3 24, 

ftto 440 ftt?, E«rt, teefFt eFe^t FeFe ftftt fpr? 

TEE fftfft 5rfftfEEE, 1952 ft MYe Elft 4TE1 PErTE | I 
EfRT^ ET44T ft ETEt eFe^EET EPEf |o Etc irqlo 
11 65/EE/ 1, Elftt'4 17 E-TTE, 1 965 ft E4ER E4E 
EfftfEEE 4ft 4TE 1 7 ( 1 ) ( 47 ) ft EEfE 444 PEFTE 4ft 
ftt ftt I 44EEt ft TIEt'ET 44 E4TE TFM44 ft Elft 
4ET EEE Me Ef?4E FtFeT?, ft EPT EErftF44 
ft 41 ft ft TfftETETEEE EPJE TfEtET TIE 4 r 4ft, EETE 
pfttE. ijM ft ET EET | Eftr fftfEE TREt ft ftt WTRrEY'/fftETE'f 
44 'JR 4lft ftET | I Rtft, Eft EE EFEFEEE ftt ERT 2(4l) ft 
EEtE EEFee ET4E4 44 EEE TEPTET ftt IFeE4 WEE 44 

t fttr e«jFee ere? ftr EEft eetE ft Fe*?, et?=t ft-M 

E <44 t ftt EEtE ft eF 5E TEtTE EEE ETEElfftTTE M=E 
FEfftft?, 4TE ERE, EEFE f^td, 1 ftt eFeFeEE 4ft 
EFTF 17 ( 1 ) (47) ft EEtE 44 ft Fe? , ?FTT ERE? ft 
EEEt EfE1JEErE4Er fo fttf ?Eo 1 1 7 l/l 4 8 743/EE- 1, 
ET-ftET 9 EER?, 1 9 7 1 ft EfEF? ER^E 1 7 E4TE, 1965 
Elftt EEEt '/TE7 MeEET ftl Tf 4T FEE! I I 

EE, f4 E's'ET tFeEETF EfR T?ft ftfttE EtPrP, 
OETfm, Ef EFR 4REF I Fp ^4 T^FfP eFe^EEF ft 
ERtE 1 0 EER?, 1 9 7 1 ft E4TEF ftft ft ERE FpftY EY 
STfftr ft Ffftf E? fttf tFePE 4EF4 Eft Ef 4F I 

[ft° U/60/67ftrorr4o2] 



Sec. 3(ii)] 


4397 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /AS VINA 29, 1894 


New Delhi , the 2 6th August 1972 

S.0. 3047. — In pursuance of Clause (a) of sob-para- 
graph (1) of paragraph 4 of the Employees’ Provident 
Funds Scheme, 1952, the Central Government hereby 
appoints the Secretary to the Government of Tamil 
Nadu. Labour and" Employment Department, as the 
Chairman of the Regional Committee set up for the 
State of Tamil Nadu and makes the following further 
amendment in the notification of the Government of 
India in the late Ministry of Labour No. SRO 3381, 
dated the 2nd November, 1954, namely:-— 

Ip the said notification, against item 1, for the exist- 
ing entry in the first column, the following entry shah 
be substituted, namely: — 

“The Secretary to the Government Of Tamil Nadu, 
Labour and Employment Department, Madras,” 

[No. 12(8)/04-PF. Ill'll.] 


di fessff, 26 RfiER 1972 

dRo ttto 3047 dnNiff RfrcR fRfa e#r, 1952 

% ^rr 4 %er3tt ( 1 ) (^) ^ n^rer if %RiYR rf- 

dRF, RfHRHKREdRE% N'T rV eYWE fd’RPT % RfRR 
dir drrfipTdTL lft % FpfRfed (fcfftr Rfirfa 
% kt if ftipR NTcff f drVr RTER REdRE 
NR RETET Ft rFlRETt’ Wfr TTo'FTo NT o " 3 3 8 1 , 
drflN 2 RRFRT, 19 54 if ffirdfRftsdr rYe RtffER dN'4)' 
% ; NdfE: — 

RdR rFr^NRI if, RE 1 % RTRY , fNRRTR Rprfe 
% TRTR RE fdfFRfNfNR Rprfe: E<lY RPtrY, nrIr:- 

"rFeE, dlpHdlt REdRE, NR rYe ffWT pTRET, 
RSTR l" 

[Ro 12 ( 8 )/ 64 -f[o rp 0 2 (ii)] 


S.O. 3048. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause (cl of sub-section 111 of section 5 A of “the Em- 
ployees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fnud Act, 
1952 (19 of 1952) the Central Government hereby ap- 
points the Secretary to the Government of Tamil Nadu, 
Labour and Employment Department, as member of the 
Central Board of Trustees, and makes the following fur- 
ther amendment In the notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Labour. Employment and 
Rehabilitation (Department, or Labour and Emoloy- 
ment) No. S.O. 2412, dated the 6th July, 1970, namely:— 

Tn the said notification, against item 12. for the exist- 
ing entrv in the first column, the following entry shall 
be substituted, namely:— 

“The Secretary to thn Government of Tamil Nadu, 
Labour and Employment Department, Madrasi.” 

TNo. 12(5)/69-PP. II.] 

dfio RT° 3048 Rfd^T fRfR rYe fRTR 

RSTRfHfij RftlfRRR, 1952 ( 1 9 5 2 dR 19) dY REN 
5 d> dff EREPT ( 1 ) % fif ~ ( R ) S I y I REtT NfdREff dR 
RrYe dNcT ^TT %?3 Yr RFdRT, ErfRNETE RFRRF % NR 
RVLldTRF FeRTR E RpdE dY dREfd ; RTrY rYe ^ RETr 
^ER R Fd^dd' EEcff Y, dfrE RTEE REdRE % NR, 


EfERIE rYe JRdTR RETER (NR rYe ElEETE FtETE ) *pY 
EfsPJERT REET dR° RT° 2412 dTFYN 6 dJNrf, 1970 
if FdTdYYrFNT NtE RRttJd diRdY Y , 

Edd rFlJEET R, RE 1 2 % RTRR, RRR ERFR if 
(WRTR rFrFe e RTd RE, fdTdfYrf%R rFrFcR ftrY RTt^fY, 
reYe:- 

"Efdd, RTfRRdTT REdRE, NR rYe EYERIE fdRTR, 
R3TRl” 

[RRR1 1 2 ( 5 ) / 6 9— 'ft Rdi 0(2)] 


New Delhi, the 28 th August 1972 

S.O, 3049. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer ann the majority of the 
employees In relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Doulat and Company, Siddiamber Bazar, Hyde- 
rabad, Andhra Pradesh have agreed that the provisions 
of the Employees’ Provident Fund? and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable 
to the said establishment; 

Now. therefore, in exercise of th? power? conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of February, 1972. 

[No. S. 35019 (83) /72-PF.II.J 
df feviff, 28 RRER, 1972 

dR° RTo 3049. — RE: EEffE REdRE d?T E$ 
RfflTT fftfiT Y % ffETtf ^Icld R u -si dRNff, Fee 4) RTRE ETNTE, 
|TETdTR, RTpT ETRL ERIE^E R RtR5 fRRt'Rdi rYe 
dRfRTfERt dff RgRWl ^R RRT RE RRRR Rt df $ f% RR- 
RTEf RFaRR fRFR R> Y'RR fRfsr RfsrfRRR, 1952 
(l952 dR 19) % RRSEST EdR ERTRR dfY RF^ fd^ 

Nrf|(R ; 

RR:, RN, RdR RFRfRRR d?f RTET 1 d?f ERRIET (4) 
TFT N7ET ErfdRRf dR NflR dF% ^rr REdRE RdR 

RfalRRR % RRRRT RdR ERTRR dY UdL] 1 11 RFJ diEfft 

tl 

RR RfR^NdT 1972 % ENd^f % NTR fdR dft RRTT 

RR?ff ruftY I 

[Ro RR° 350l9(63)/72-'fYoinRo-2] 


S.O, 3050. — In exercise of the powers confered by 
the first proviso to section 6 of the Employees’ Provi- 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), the Central Government, after making necessary 
enquiry into the matter, hereby specifies with effect 
from the 1st December, 197(3 the establishment known 
as Messrs) B. G. Shirke and Company, 1205, Apte Road, 
Poona-4 for the purposes of the said proviso. 

[No. S. 35019(25)/71-PF'II(il).J 



4398 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II — 


BB° BT° 30 50. — ^RFR f4bt4 B^RB 

fERr sfk Ebb RtFr BfBfBBR, 1952 (1952 
BB 1 9 ) 47 V BRT 6 F BBB BRBpj; g-fR BBB RfqBBf FT 
WET BRE §B, TRBB fBRB B BTBBBF BIB BRB F B7BTB 
1 feRSTT 197 0 B Flo Ft ° f?p% ttr^ bbtER 120 5, 
BEB ft?, gRT-4 BTEF BBTBB fE FBB3RT BBB BRBF 
% settbbt % fnt[ Pt Fifed febi 1 1 

[Bo itBo- 35019( 2 5) / 7 1 — 'ft 0 ttc^o 2 (ii)] 


S.O. 3051. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees In relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Industrial Trading Company, 147, M. G. Road, 
Fort Bombay-1 have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should he made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section ; of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty-first 'day of December, 1971. 

[No. S. 35018(57)/72-PF.II.] 
FTo BTo 305 l.-BB: %fer ETFPr 4B B|[ Fife 

ERR in fF BrE BBBfferR dv *-4 dE, 147, 3f[o 

Bfe BitS 1 , BTRF FBTBR 4 RTFS' (H'-flddi F*t _ 

’iiW bE w bet qr hbrb fr £ f% 4744 r-fV 

RfeR fesr 4BRr feR fetl BftjfBMB, 19 5 2 ( 1 9 5 2 

4R 1 9 ) BIT BBRRT R4R RTTBR 47? H rB fqrrr btE ; 

BEE, BB, R4R BfsrfBBB 44 HRT 1 # BBBD7 ( 4) 

STB BRET Ffepff FT BBtB FTR |B BBBTT BBB 

BfafEBB % RBRBT B4R RTTBR rpt TT^fg-pT BBT BRR[ 

I I 

BftrgBBT 1971 % feRtB % RFrftRR fe 44 

BBB BBfft BTBjrt I 


[B 0 iT^fo 35018(57) /72-qtomfjo 2j 


S.O. 3052. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Gandhi Yarn Trading Company, Ashwinikumar 
Road, Surat-3 have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the power s conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
fpree on the first day bf April, 1971. 

[No. S.35Q19/92/72-PF.II.] 


Flo BT° 3 012. — BB: RBFTC Ft BIT BBtB 

iftBr I fF BBB Bttft BIT ff?B 4BTBT, fRR TIT, 

RB- 3 BIBB T4TBR B RBB fRBTBF fe FERlfefr 
bE RgEFTT ?B BIB BT BBBB iff B# & f% FfeRt TTfeR 
f>rffer B*R ByRR BBB ErPr BftTfRTR, 195 2 (l952 
FT 1 9) % 71W IBB TBTBR Ft BP£ fad Rpt Rife J 

bb:, bb, bbb bFhIbbb 44 btb i bE BBBRT '( 4) 

5TG STBTB BfBBBT 4B BBtB F7R FfeT BRPK BBB 
RfafepT % BBBBT BBB TB1BB Ft FBB3TB BF[ BRcft 

t I 

BB BftPJBBl 1971 % BBB % BBB fBB Ft BfB 

BRBt BTEFt I 

[Bo iTRo -35019( 92)/72-'fto BBio 2] 

S.O. 3053. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the emjjloyer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs T. C. Modi Processing Works, Ashwini Kumar 
Road, Surat-3 have agreed that the provisions) of the 
Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1JJ52 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of th e powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
'R’llral Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
fo-co On the first day of April. 1971. 

[No. S. 35019 / 91 /. 72 -PF.II.] 

FTo Bio 30 53. — BB-' ErEb TRBT1T Ft BB BfftB 
BtBT E fc BBB Bto *4° Btfr BtEfBB B4B, Bf^BBt fRR 
tT€, ■‘JRT— 3 BTBF ^BIBB 4 BBB fBBtBF B> FBBRfBt 
44 BgB'sBT FB did B 7 " BBBB ^t Bf % fF fEbeCI' "H Pd 
iBfB BR fRB BBB fERr BfvfBBR, 19 12 (l952 
BT 19 ) % BBF=B BFBFBIBB fE BIB fF^ BrB Blf^; 
BB:, BB, BBB BfBfBBB BB BTB 1 bE fBWRT ( 4) 5TBT 
BBB BfBBBt FT BBTB BRB B 17 FBtB BRF BBB BfST- 
ffiFR % grrBB BBB 7 BTBBT Ft PBBSRT BPT FBTt ^ I 

BB BfRTJBBT 1971 BBB % BBB fBB BB BBB 
BBEft BERTt ! 

[Bo PTTo 35019( 9l)/ 72- c fto ITFo 2] 

S.O. 3054. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Synthetic Products Corporation G4-A, N. I. T. 
Farid abad have agreed that the provisiohs of the Em- 
ployees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of th e powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come Into 
force on the first, day of January, 1970. 

[No. 8/100/70-PF.IId).] 



Sec. 3(ii)J 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4399 


Hd:, 5TT, Tdd STfafriPT -fl HITT 1 Tf HRT1TI ( 4) 

3TH sr?fT Wpddfl dff TTld THl J? RCFlT 

Slf^rTTR % VTV’J HTT CTIT^T FT rrT?T4RT HFJ TTrft £ I 

Tj? vffr|HdT 19 70 % Rtfa % TdR fid ft TfH 

TOfr HPIffl | 

[ffo ^T-35019( 1 7 5)/ 7 1— TlTTq? 2 (i)] 


TToVTo 3 0 54. — Td: %kk T^TIZ f 1 Tq Tdld TTd! 
£ Pc RJd PdkPdF flddTd TTdkHd, 64-^ rr^o ^ifo 
fro Td'drTTd thef FdFnr d fftt*! PdflTF vk dkdrPvip 

Tit dfddTl S' FT TFT TT dSHd ?> df P % dnfdTk 4fd5>T 

fdRr irk f ^ kid PdPr HPsrfdird, 1952 (1952 ti 19) 
% HIW Vdd PTTTT T> HF£ fdM irk TTf^ ; 

STT, VT, TIT ^kPlTT Tp NHr ( l) df TTcTRr 4 
inn T'T HPmf sr t f r t fct |t ^kid ttur him 
srfafTW % TTd>'d Jdd FUTTd' Tp fFTJdRT did T^PP p 

► N p> <■ 

d? VfddVdT 19 70 % HdddP % Tdd Pdd FT did 
f? HdfrP irnrifr 1 


[•To 8/1 00 / 7 O- 7 I 0 n;Fo-2(i)] 


5.0. 3055. — In exercise of the powers conferred hy 
the first proviso to section fi of the Employees’ Provi- 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), the Central Government, after making necessary 
enquiry into the matter hereby specifies with effect 
from the 1st January, 1970 th e establishment known 
as Messrs Synthetic Products Corporation, 6 4-A, N. I, T., 
Faridabad for the purposes of the said proviso, 

[No. 8/100/70-PF.I.iai),] 
Tlo SlTo 3 055. — T'dPd TTJTF T>f TR) dPcd pjptr 

srk ffcr tut PtPj srPtrP'TPT, 1952 (1952 Tr 19 ) 
fp stht fi % t«tt tc^f nrr tit t fr vr ttPt 
Tier |t, zrcuTff PffTtr if trrffTqrE ^rr t ;t-'t % 

I TdddP, 1 9 7 0 4 dlk fPdfdT sfkddd FTfkidd, 64 m 
rrffo vnk fk ’Fpkrdnr drdF ftitj f rr=rTTffn:r tttt 
dd^p % TTlTir % Ptt pTpffpM FkP » , 

[To 8/ 1 0 0/7 0— TI mcn 0 _2(ii)] 

5.0 1 . 3056.- — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs WMI DELHI (PRIVATE), LIMITED, E-2, 
Defence Colony, New Delhi have agreed that the 
provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and 
Fnmilv Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should 
be mode applicable to the said establishment; 

Now. therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on (he first day of April, 1970. 

[No. S.35019/175/71-PF.II (i) .] 

Tlo tiro 30 56. — TT %=PlT TFpTT ft 77 ff=fPd 
TTdT P f% TV vq ?pi dddP (TT°) PdPfk. f-2, 
pT^TTrkkFTp^kffTT^FvmiTH^rTV PddtHFt Flk 
Tddrkqp =FP Tf dddl TT TFT T 7 " TTdd fl df I Pt THTTlft 
kfk^FfTrTTHT Pdfs' VpTfTTT, 1952 ( 1952 
TT 1 9) f TTT 71 ! TFT PTTTff ft HPT PTF Tfk HlfffT; 


S.O. 3057. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the first proviso to section 6 of the Employees’ Provi- 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 

of 1952, the Central Government, after making neces- 
sary enquiry into the matter, hereby specifies with 
effect from the 1st April 1970 the establishment 
known as Messrs WMI DELHI (PRIVATE) Limited, 
E-2, Defence Colony, New Delhi for the purposes of 
the said proviso, 

[Nt>. S.35019/175/71-PF.II(ii) .] 

Tie Hro 3 057. — "kffT RFfriT TTck hPtgt 
P dPil ftr f rr? TFT P tPt tTpTpTTT, 1952 ( 1 952 TT 19) 

dfr TT^r 6 % ttt tr^r ttt nk f ft f; rfri tctT 

|T, qrj'j PTTT 4 VlffiliTT HIT FiO TM1T 1 
1 970 H RTff rrrr vif (Tie ) PtPtft, f-2, 

P?f -ft Trfrd)-, ?! J PT'k dTTF FifiTd fl TT^TRr HTff 

t^tf ^ ttIttT % PdF PjPiPkT t^tT P; i 

_j * 

( fo nrq-o 3 5 01 9 ( 1 7 5) / 7 1— ft o TF» 2(jj) 


S.O. 3058.— Whereas it appears to the Cci-tral Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Vishnu Textiles, Gandhi Colony, Ashivini- 
kumar Road, Swrat 3 have agreed that the provisions 
of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pen- 
sion Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made 
applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act t 0 the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April, 1971, 

[No. S, 35019 (93) /72-PF.II.l 



4400 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II- 


=RTo Wo 3058. — q-I: %TftT TTFR 47 'r Tf ^TTT'T 
f>TT t f% ^T# faw tfT HT^T, Ttsft dTOTTl, 
fTTT TtT, gw 3 STEEP *OTTT T fTTtsrOT TfV 

TTTlf'fTt % t TfTOTT ITT OTT TT TTTT ft Tf £ % 4fNTTt 
TfVOT fafff Tfk JTOT TTT ffiftr TrftffaWT, 1952 
( 195 2 OT 19) % TTOTT ITT *4TTT OT TTf f%f dfET 
OTffT ; 

OTT, OTT, TfsrfTTT %t TIOT 1 %t TTOT7I ( 4) 
5TTI 5T4tT TTfWJff OT HT TPT OTOT g-|T ^Tftzr TTCOTT WT 

TrfirfTTT % tt^st tot «ni t ot giffTPr wj ototI t 1 
Tf srfargwTT 1971 % sttt, % tot fed %t Tf t 
ff TTift w’T'tt 1 

[To it Jo 35019(3 3)/7 2— ft o fRo 2 ] 


8.0. 3059. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs A. V. M. Marimulhu Nadar and Sons, Sri 
Meenakashi Oil Mills, 109-A, Ettayapuram Road, Tuti- 
corin-2 Tamiinadu have agreed that the provisions of 
the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should b« made applicable 
to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred 
by subsection (4) of section 1 ot the said Act the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of March, 1970. 

[No. 8/161/70-PF, II.l 

47[ «HT o 305 9-— TT: %uftT TTOTT *171 Tf Mrflfl ftTT 
$ f% TTlI f o sft o ini o TfTff, TTTTT i^¥ OTT, ^ TtaTsft 
OTOTrfT?T, 1 09-T, SfilOTJOT Ttf, fflOTOT- 2, dfTWTW 
4OT TOTT % *4dll>di %t 

fT OTT TT TfOTT ft df $ ft? OT*OTft TfdOT fatsf Tfk 
4jFRT %OTT frftj wftrfrwr, 1952 ( 1952 OT 19) % 
TJTm 3KT <r"4TTT %t WEJ Hon OTfff t 

OTT:, 'M*!, 3W wfyfdM+i N>V HTTT 1 d*t TW7T ( 4) 
3 TCT TETTT ■f|f*KlkT OT 9 '-Tin fir *3 U ■CTI f. dkd y'ftl- 
fTTT % TTTTT dOT ^OTTTR %t '/ndai < i TTT OTlft ^ I 

Tf srfagWTT 1970 % TT^ % T*ET f?T %t TOTT ff 

VT?ft I 

[PIT 8(l6l)/70-<Tto 1T47 0 2 ] 


S.O. 3060. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees In relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs L. Abdur Rahaman Khan and Sons, Dhone, 
Kurnool District have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of January, 1908. 

[No. 8(81)/68-PF. II.] 


OT° OT ° 3060 .— TT: ViflT tt OTi T %t Tf McTlci fldl 
t f% TT# ITvT o OTf T TfTIM OTT TOT, # 1 , OTCdto 
(fl%OT) TTW FEW ?t WWi? fwflwf sfk 'pHTfwf 
sTfTWT W WIT 9 T TdHd ft & f% ’t'lfd 1 1 ) TllW 
frftr sfk fKir qfigT Wn stMwt, 1952 (1952 w 
1 9) % TTd « 1 TH %t TEj; f% 0 [ WffE I 

WE, tTT, T4rl ^rftdTWT, %t tTRT 1 %t TWITT ( 4) 
3TTT SRtT iTlftTdl 4TT TTEl ^ f T TT4TR 7W «rftr- 

PEET % TWT 8W F4TW %t rpTfSTTr EET TE?ft | I 

Tf srftrg^ETT 1968 % WTTft % STcftTT fer %t f^rl 
TEfflt wwft I 


[T° 8( 0l)/68-'fto tgu o 2] 


S.O. 3061. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs A. V. Meyyappan, 28, Arcot Road, Madras-26 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ 
Prov-ident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 
(19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said 
establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come info 
force on the first day of February, 1972. 

[No. S. 35019(30) /72-PF. II (i)_l 


4T o OT o 30 6 1. — TT: %TPEr TT4TT %fTf Mdtd ftTT 
|f%TT#Tf o^otTTTT, 38, OT TtT, T3TT— 2 6 TEEP 
TOTTT % TEOT5 fdAflTTT sftT TfTTsTT W OTT 

TT TfTT ft T^ | f% OTTOTft TfOTT f^rffer sfk f3OT ^ET 

frftr srfrfrTT, 1 952 ( 1952 ot 1 9 )% ttotr tot tteet 
% t RTf OTfff I 



Sec. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA; OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4401 


5f4:, isur, 444 RfRMn Tt RKT 1 4% 41RTCT ( 4) 
%RT ST4t1 I 41 44t1 kiTc) RT4H -344 4TfiT" 

Mm % 4TTR TIT *4191 4% 4444T7T 4PJ TO4f | I 

4? TrfalJTTT 1972 9% 97*4%, % 444 fad 99 494 
^ 445ft 5TT44r I 


[jo 44-3501 9( 3 0)/72-'ftotnEo 2(i)] 


S.O. 3062. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the 
first proviso to section 6 of the Employees' Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
the Central Government after making necessary enqui- 
ry into the matter, hereby specifies with effect from 
the 1st February, 1972 the establishment known as 
Messrs A. V. Meyyappan, 118, Arcot Road, Madras-29 
for the purposes of the said proviso. 

[No. S. 35019(30)/72-PF. II (ii) .] 
49 oRTo30 6 2.-%t%9 4*99* 97141% rMr Mr 

sftr 5414 fan Mr MrMpt, 1952 ( 1952 44 19 ) 

9% Rf*T 6 % 444 L K r d+ 41XT 4T4 rPkNI 44 4%9 d-f d 
|tT RTRS fllR 4 4T 4W9T 4T1 97*% % 14414 1 444$ 

1 972 %9[ o%°19T14 38, RT*9%I%F, 43T4-26 4T44T 
F4T14 iff 99^3T*T 949 H y rd,4 % IlfJnT % M? MlM* 
4r*% $ I 

[jo trRo 35019(30)/72-'ft 2(ii)] 


S.O. 3063.— Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs B. G. Shirke and Company, 1205, Apte Road, 
Poona-1 have agreed that the provisions of the Em- 
ployees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of December, 1970. 

[No. S. 35019(25) /71-PF, II (i).] 


44o4To 3063.-44: %9%9 4*99 * iff 9? IrMliM 
| fcrt sft o % o ftr*% ^ 99=1%, 1205, 444* %9 
tjfTT-4 4T441 *4144 & 4*45 Mft-W %* MdTfM 9% 
4p44T 54 9T4 1* 4^44 ?% 9^ | 97941% 4M4 

f%f% !%* f4E4 f44 Mr rTrMir, 1952(195244 

19) % 444?R 444 F4T44 RTt 4FJ[M* 41% 4Tf|lT I 


R4:, 9T9, 444 Mtlflll % RTTT 1 4% 44RTCT ( 4) 
JT*T 444 4f%44T 44 49>T 44% %Ml 44444 444 
scrfRMl % 414^4 444 F9TT9 4% ^d4£l*T 4P£ 97*% $ I 


9? RfRgW 19 70 % fefRT, % WT fed =Nt SR[4 
i|f 49f% 4RM I 


[*T o tJ4— 35019(25)/ 71 — % tJU 2(i)] 


S.O. 3064. — Whereas ft appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
the Pondicherry State Cooperative Land Mortgage 
Bank Limited, Bussy Street, Pondicherry have agreed 
that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds 
and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should 
be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first da.y of April, 1972. 

[No. S. 35019/96/72-PF. II,] 

44o RTo 3064. — Iff: %Ml 9*977* 4% 4? 1414 %9T 
£ fr 4 % it>t%% it? %<rs nrid -f t Ms? 

3£*% 1-pinM 41441 *RI9b % *444 f%%319% ?%* 
T44lfM ITT 4pM4^ff4T44Tfr^T4^rJT^ ^ f% 1794T% 
'iMl M r %* f 2*9 %Id Mr RfRfdTO, 1952 ( 1952 
44 19) % 414=4 444 *4114 9% 4PT f94 91% MgR I 

m., m, 444 R-rRfdW 4% RUT 1 4% 94RRT ( 4) 
3T*T 994 dfdcfll 44 5r9%997*%^ %Ml TOT 444 RfR- 
fd49 % TIRTEf =394 *419?! 44 4T9 9**% | ; 

44 1972 T R44 % 441 M T4 4^4 gf 

44lft 444ft I 


[4o ITRo— 350 19(96) /72— ifo (TTRo 2] 


S.O. 3065, — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Shere Punjab Co-operative Transport Society, 
Limited, 233, Kamla Market, New Delhi including Its 
branches at (i) Delivery Godown, Ramnagar, Delhi (ii) 
Townshop, No. 2 Faridabad and (iii) Ballabgarh, Har- 
yana have agreed that the provisions of the Employees 
Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 
(19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said 
establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come Into 
force on the first day of December, 1971. 

[No. S. 35019 (90) /72-PF. II (1).] 



4402 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASV1NA 29, 1894 


[Part 11 - 


9?ro STIo 306 5- -TT- Tf TeflrT^HT 

| far 4*m t^tr TTPuFirfer tttfttf, 2 3 3, 

THTBYTIWa', f|f f^ft, fsrTTr f»FFt(i) (shYt-D Hl^nra^T 
jrnTTTT, (jj) irreoiifPrRo 2, 'FfaRH (iij) 
grqTTi ^ ttY igrrei ij; *fY TTfrol^pT %, rptt 
^ HtTO fn^3TT *rk qnforfrjflf tY ^|TRTT 3TR IT 
rott 5> it? £ for •‘P'O^rfr *rfaiR ftfsr ttYt fTR Wn 

f^fKmrerfTinT, X952( 1952TT 19)%^ t T^^T T’TPR 
*fY ; TT% : TTf&t(; 

SR: , m, 3TR TTfaffiTR Tit STITT 1 Tit IWI ( 4) 
3TTT TTTT tflfw jff TO TO FT TT% grr %T^trr ti TT1 i <. RTR srftT- 
HTT % THEHT TTT FTPR TTY IR^TPT 'TFT TTrfT % I 

^Wfa^TT 1971 % SBPT f?R TTt SRTT 

|f ffinfr srrqifY i 

[R° IT^-a50l9(90)/72-'ft ttcr 2 (i)] 

S.O. 3066. — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as the 
Messrs Dada and Company, 49-Old Tharagupet Banga- 
lore-2A have agreed that the provisions of the Em- 
ployees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of May, 1972. 

[No, S. 35019 (88) /72-PF. II.] 

TT° STr° 3066.- T TTT:% ; fffar TOR Tit Tif SpftcT fftcTT 
^fTT^TPf TTPpfV, 49-sftFS qTpJTT, wtl, 

2 ^ T1HFF prm % TT^ra f^R^EF TtV TnNTfnff q?Y 
^^TTT(TTTTTTTT^r^rFf ^fTTTT4^Rt 4lf^«T fafa 
STYt fTR <RR frfsr STfafuRT, 1 952 ( 1952 TT 19) 

% BTff PTTTd TlY eTPT f%fT OfT^ ^f^rr ; 

5R-, SR, tTfsrffFTP TY KTHT 1 TlY BWTTT (4) 
JPCT TTrT BfTTFt TTT TRR TiT^ iJF %^f>T TR TTTT 
TTfirf^TP % BTSpR 7W PTER TRTSPT BPT TRY 

$ I 

^WftpJtRT 1971 TTlRf % JRFfVd <TtX%W gf 
€RffY RT^fY I 

[jfc Itjt-350 1 9( 488)/72-'YY° 2] 


S.O. 3067. — Whereas Messrs The Original Fire and 
General Insurance Company Limited, Oriental Build- 
ing, Mahatma Ghandi Road, Bombay-1, (hereinafter 
referred to as the said establishment) has applied for 
exemption under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of sec- 
tion 17 of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952); 

And whereas in the opinion of the Central Govern- 
ment, the rules of the provident fund of the said estab- 
lishment with respect to the rates of contribution are 
not less favourable to the employees therein than those 
specified in section 6 of the said Act, and the employees 
are also in enjoyment of other provident fund benefits 
which on the whole are not less favourable to the em- 
ployees than the benefits provided under the said Act 
or under the Employees’ Provident Funds Scheme, 1952 
(hereinafter referred to as the said Scheme) in relation 
to the employees in any other establishment of a simi- 
lar character; 

Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 17 of the 
said Act, and subject to the conditions specified in the 
Schedule annexed hereto, the Central Government 
hereby exempts the said establishment from the opera- 
tion of all the provisions of the said Scheme and in 
pursuance of sub-section (3) of the said section 17, the 
Central Government hereby directs that,— 1 

(a) the employer in relation to the said establish- 
ment shall pay within fifteen days of the close 
of the month to the Employees’ Provident 
Fund, inspection charges at the rate of 0.09 
per cent (zero point zero nine per cent) of the 
pay (basic wages, dearness allowance, retain- 
ing allowance, if any, and cash value of food 
concession admissible thereon) for the time 
being payable to the employees of tne said 
establishment who would have become mem- 
bers under the said Scheme but for this exemp- 
tion; 

(b) the said employer shall invest the provident 
fund contributions in accordance with the 
directions issued by the Central Goy eminent 
from time to time. 


The Schedule 

1, The employer shall submit such returns to the 

Regional Provident Fund Commissioner as the 
Central Government may, from time to time, 
prescribe. 

2, The employer shall furnish to each employee 

an Annual Statement of Account or PaS3 Book. 

3, All expenses involved in the administration of 

the Fund including the maintenance of 
accounts, submission of accounts and returns, 
transfer of accumulations, jayment of inspec- 
tion charges etc., shall be borne by the em- 
ployer, 

4.4 The employer shall display on the Notice Board 
of the establishment a copy of the rules of ihe 
Fund as approved by the appropriate Govern- 
ment and, as and when amended, along with a 
translation of the salient points thereof in the 
language of the majority of the emcloyees. 

5. Where an employee who is already n, ember of 
the Employees’ Provident Fund (fctatutory 
Fund) or the Provident Fund of another ex- 
empted establishment is employed in his 
establishment, the employer shall immediately 
enrol him as a member of the Fund of the 
establishment, and accept the past accumula- 
tions in respect of such employee and credit 
to his account. 



See. 3001 


T Wt GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29 , 1894 


44 C* 


6. The employer shall enhance the rate of provi- 

dent fund contribution appropriately If the 
rate of provident fund contributions for the 
class of establishments in which his establish- 
ment falls is enhanced under the Employees’ 
Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 so that the benefits under the provi- 
dent fund scheme of the establishment shall 
not become less favourable than the benefit 
provided under the Employees Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1052. 

7. The establishment shall submit an audited 

balance sheet of its provident fund every year 
to the Regional Provident Fund Commissioner 
within 3 months of the close of the year. 

8. No amendment of the rules of the provident 

fund shall be made without the previous 
approval of the Central Provident Fund Com- 
missioner. Where any amendment is likely to 
affect, adversely the interests of the employees, 
the Central Provident Fund Commissioner 
shall, before giving his approval, give a 
able opportunity to the employees to explain 
their point of view. 

tNo. S.-35014/21/72/PF-II.] 

Wo SITo 3067. — W: tfY VtfWieT TER cfc 

SPTW "FTPT'ft gYPGTWtf fafNg, 

gpsfY tm, — 1 WR 'WTiJ RW ITOW 

grfT WT $ ) Y wYgrfY fgfa gYc f&W fgfa 

xtftrfrm, 1952 ( 1952 W 19 ) (firJY 

TW wfirffiTiT W I) "(ft OT7T 17 4^ 3TOR1 (l) % 

ufa (v) % grfYg yz ^Y % frq gr%w famr $ ; 

sftc W : 4K+K ^ TW JJ gfmTW 1>Y <rY 9?Y 

WW TO WITT % gfaTW fgfa PEW VTWfwf 

% froj tt frmf Jr wr g-j^g g?Y $ rY to gfyfgmr 
*fY mrr e '4 fgfgjgne f gY< wfgrd yfaw fgfy fY gw 
Mijr^yin * 4 Y tt ^ rfr wfaifWT % fm? 
tt mjfwrgY % wr spjwt g$f ?, rY, sgY swr % fwft 
gw ptrrw % wfaitwY % mry Jr, gw gfafgmr % ggYg 

wU wWlfl nfiw fdfy F#T, 1952 (fait wJj' 
gw wfYg wt $) % trsftg fi gpft $ ; 

gg : gg, tw gfyPrmr vr yra 1 7 »Y tort ( 1 ) 

% (gt ) ira wrr gfwgY w swYg grrY jjr tflr 
3 TO y^dY jf r^Pdfe wT % *raYff TfJYgTf, WiYu 
ggwr gw wrw giY gw mYYg % wfY gwmY % gmYg 
Jy tjg^jra WY | gYr tw srra 1 7 # wj ( 3) 

% snjgT"T ^ %gfYg rcwt fg^g ^fY % fg : — 

(g) gw wr ^ fwYow gw wtw 
% gg wtgifwT vY> gY, gfagf ^ g *Y 
gf fYft gt, gw ffYr % tratg ggw ft 
gt^ ijYiY, gwmr iig ggg % (gnnfYgi'gvr^Y, 
g^rrf gw, gfgyrag gw, gf* Wf ft, 
eYt gg tt wjig wr fYmw w ggrg 
ijw) 0.09 (^w gigggg gt) srfggg 


fwYsTg-trgrc gw % gw ^ Wff 
fgg % tftgg giiYgRt gfgw fgfy ^rY %gr ; 

(g) gw fggtggr gfgw fgfy gfgiggY *pY, 
%gffa gwnr irt ggg-ww w "fgw% 

grr fgTrf % w\mx, fgfgffg grYmr 1 

ggg^ft 

1. fggYw srT^fgm gfgw fgfy grjw^ ^ IrwP'Tgt 

gwng m-wr fg%r f 

2 . fwfYgr uc^rgr wYmcr ^t giftr liw — fwwr 
R 'TRT ff WTT I 

3. fgfy % srwmg, frort vruraY w wrq; wm 
tt<amY ^ft fwrPwf w wgr, gggf w gwrw, 
fdtloTui-Tgrd wfg w ggw gfwfYw g gwgfwr grft 
wgY w gfg fggYggr aro fwrr totpit i 

4 . fggYw? wjfw gwiR fra gyftfw fgfg % 
fgggY ^t i^gi srfgpmg % ^[ggr-igg tt sjgfifrg •f^tt 
sfhc 5 R wft gwi g^Yrg fw thtw gg 

gggwr ^Y wi g ggg?Y gprY w g^gp? gY 

ggfiw tYtt i 

5 . gft *fY$ ^it wtrrtY, Tt wYgrtY gfgw fgfy 
(sfTFjgt fgfg ) w ^ — ttw iwfY gw p*nw «fY gftw 
fgfy w Tfvr ^Y it ggw gg% wm Jr fggYfw ftw 

5 fit rggYgd; wm 'Ft fgfg % ggw w Jr ggw gw 
^rw ^Y fTn wYt ^Jr wYgrfY tY wgg gg% fro?r 
gggt ^Y wY+t< g^ gg% grr^ Jr grYw 1 

6 . gf< gg wt % fttwY % fgif, fggir fggYggi w 
wm gwr gfgw fgfg % gfggwY gfr w 

gfgw fgfg gYr frw ?gg fgftr gftrfggg, 1952 ^g#g 
g?r fr tot* rfY fggYggr gfgw fgfg ^ gfggwY ^Y g r 
wjfgg gg Jr ^it wi% r*rm tY gfaw fgftr pfYt 
% gtiYg spY g^fgEfFt gg 1 gyfgyigY JY wt g^g g ft 
gnt fgwFt wn 4 . 4 di(l gfgw fgfg gYc ^g ^ 
fgfg gfgfggg, 1952 ^ gaYg % 1 

7. prow gwY gfgw fgfg w wrdfgg ^gg-w 

6 gTYfg-T gfgw fgfg g^gg w wfw % dYg mg 
% 'ffYerc ^rm 1 

8 . gfaw fgrg fgmrf Jf vfY ggYgg %wYg gfgcg 
fgftr gr^w % g^rtw fggT g^Y fw mum 1 
fwfY mrftgg JY wNrfwY % f^gY tt gfwgg tott gym 
mmw fY gft gfrw fgfg gigw, gggr g^ftgg 
T% % mNrfwf git gw ^fYwfpJT ?gw g;vg gg ^fw- 
^w gggg ^gT 1 


[^otTg-3 50 14 ( 21 )/ 72-^01^0 2 ] 


4404 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II— 


8.0, 3068. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the flrgt proviso to section 6 of the Employees’ Provi- 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 1.19 of 
1952), the Central Government, after making necessary 
enquiry into the matter, hereby specifies with effect 
from the 1st December, 1971, the establishment known 
as Messrs Shere Punjab Co-operative Transport Socie- 
ty Limited 283, Kani'.a Market, New Delhi including 
its branches at (i) Delivery Godown, Ramnagar, Delhi 
(ii) Townshop No. 2 Faridabad (Ui) Ballabgarh, Har- 
yana for the purposes of the said proviso. 

[No. S. 35019(90) /72-PF, II (ii).] 
TRo RTo 3068 — RfaTO fRftr RRJR faff 
ftfil flfHrfRRR, 1952 ( 1952RR 19) # RTR 6% 7W 
9 XRJ’T 31TT M4R RrPFcPTt RT TOftR gR %RTtR RTRRT 

str faror ?f tow rtr rr % TR^rrq; r^nr 4 r 3 
qfRra tor tt # fRfRtr, 233, 

liHvll Hhifd, R’f Ptcvft, ( i ) q'laiR'i, 

ptrrrt, fovft, (ii) r° 2, RrdTORTC sfk 

(ii) rrrrr$ fpifivn r ^ urnrort Rt RfcRfRR | 
rirr Rim lit 1 fcnRP, 1971 r'rrr srRtRRf 
% fRR frfRfw rp-Rft | 1 

[lio 1^0 350 19 (90)/72-<fto trqio 2(ii)] 


New Delhi, the 29 th August 1972 

8.0. 3069.— In exercise of the powers confered by 
sub -section (1) of section 13 of the Employees’ Provi- 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri 
H. T. Trivedi to be an Inspector for the whole of the 
State of "Gujarat for the purposes of the said Act and 
of any Scheme framed thereunder in relation to any 
establishment belonging to, or under the control of 
the Central Government, or in relation to any estab- 
lishment connected with a railway company, a major 
port, a mine or an oilfield or a controlled Industry, or 
In relatiofi to an establishment having departments 
or branches in more than one State, 

[No. A.12015(l)/70-PF.I.] 
R^fTOff, 19NRPR, 1972 
RRo RTo 306 9— RkR"rft RfTOR fR"fR gftr ^IJFT 

ftfa NfsrfRTOT, 1952 ( 1952 RR 1 9) TOR 1 3 # 
RWPJ ( 1 ) jni RRR RpHR TO RRtR TOR* %?flR 
(K'fiK Pd ^41 <.1 Nt fP*To iffo 'S'fd NflrfRTOT 

tfk BR% R#T farfaR fTOft TO^R % TOTtTOpr % fair 
%RftR TOR $ TO RR% fRTOTOTRfk fTOft PRRR % tfsfa 
^ TOfroft ^RTOTOft, R^ITORR, *TOR TO RR TO fRRfRR 

rrIr *MHra- f%rfr ptorr % R*to $ to froft 3 r 

PTORR % R^R R fRR% RfTOfT TITOlf $r faRTR TO 5IWRT 

’pTTTR TITO % Pi fTOCfafRi fd^'td RTpff ^ I 

fRo RR— 1 2 0 1 5 ( 1 ) / 7 0 'fto-R^To l] 


S.O. 3070. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (1) of section 13 of the Employees’ Provi- 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), and in supersession of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Em- 
ployment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment) No. S.O. 4409 dated the 22nd Octo- 
ber, 1969, the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shri S. D. Thapad to be an Inspector for the whole of 
the State of Mysore, for the purposes of the said Act 
and of any Scheme framed thereunder, in relation to 
any establishment belonging to, or under the control 
of, the Central Government or in relation to any 
establishment connected with a railway company, a 
major port, a mine or an oilfield or a controlled in- 
dustry or in relation to an establishment having de- 
partments or branches in more than one State. 

[No. A12O10(0)/72-PF.I.] 


TOo RTo 30 70. — TOTRTfr rItoR fafST Nfa ffiR R 
1952 ( 1952 TOT 19) ^ TOTT 13 BRTOTT (l) 
5T7J w<Jd viPtdqf TO RRtR TO(% NYl RKd RTTOT 

nr, Terror sfrr grotfR rrtrr (nr Rk Ttrom 

fRRTR) trfTOJRfi I Ro TOo RTo 4409 Rrfta 

22 NR^RT 1969 NfTOTTOR §R, %Rfk 

RRK tTR^ltTT «fl RRo ^to TORR RRR RpRPdR-H 

m*I<. rr% Rtfk frocProi Pfiot' t+k % sptPtoti %■ f%R 

RTfR, TO RR% fRRTOTORtR f^Rfl PTOTOI % RRR 
Jf TO PTOft TOTORt, ReflRRR, RTTR TO ftR TO 
fRRpRR RRtR % R^Rf-RR fRTRl PTORR % RTRRJ ii, fRR 
% ^ § Rfkfi 7 T 3 R R fRRTR TO RTRUp |T, RRjtf 
TNFR % IR^ fRttePfi fR^RR RiRft | 1 

[Ro t[o- 1 20 1 6( 6) /72 J ffo ttRio l] 


S.O. 3671. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (1) of section 13 of the Employees’ Provi- 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), and in supersession of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Em- 
ployment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labouf 
and Employment) No. S.O. 1313 dated the 6th April. 
1967, the Central Government hereby appoints Shri 
M. M. Cliitale to be an Inspector for the whole of the 
State of Maharashtra for the purposes of the said Act 
and of any Scheme framed thereunder, in relation to 
any establishment belonging to, or under the control 
of, the Central Government, or in relation to any es- 
tablishment connected with a railway company, a 
major port, a mine or an oilfield or a controlled indus- 
try or in relation to an establishment having depart- 
ments or branches in more than one State. 

[No. A-12O10(7)/72-PF.I.] 


RRo RTo 3071. — RntTOTl RfTOR fRfR RftrfRTOT, 
1952 (1952RT 1 9) RKT 1 3 R?T RRRITT ( l) 5TR 
1TSR RpFRRf RTT TOTtR TORt ^ Rtp RTTR RRfiR % '$3^$ 
NR, TtRRR JRRfR RTORR, (NR nU TpRRTT; fTRTR) 
Rft RfTOJRRT Ro RRo RTo 1313 Rrtkr 6 N^R, 1967 
Rt RftTRFR gir, RTORT T^RTTOR ^ f[R o RR o 

fRR% ’Ft RRR RftrfRRR sfk RR% RtflR fttfdd Mt 
TO?lR % TOftRRf % fkr RRfTR % TO RR% fRRRRRfk 



S5c. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4405 


ffFft ?ETTE % EEE if El fffBt kf fETET, EfTTEE, tfTE 
ET EE SfE ET fEEfirE EE>T % tfffffE fkfl FEFTE % 
eee Jr et pete % hteet e fair# ^ % 5rfs?f> ttse 
Jr fEETE et wrfT4 ft sfje Efro^ ttse^ Prftsa^ 
fEEEE efe* | 1 

[Eo tr-12016(7)/72-Ttoq^o lj 


New Delhi, the 1st September 1972 

S.O. 3072. — Whereas it appears to the Central, Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Asoka Press of Messrs Asoka Charities, 11/238 
Dr. Naniappa Road, Coimbatore-18 have agreed that 
the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act, .1952 (19 of 1952), should 
be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of' the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April, 1972. 

[No. S.35019(102)/72-PF.II.] 
Tf fkk, 1 fEE«rT 1972 
EEo ETo 3072. — EE: EEfiK fif EsJ EEtE 

fkT t Am srcfk Ekrk * *taE Ekf? ee i 1/238 

E|fa< fivpjpn Ek, fitErEET-18 EPFE FfTEE ^ SFEE 

fEEkfr ?rk EWEikET fit wgtfm ?e ete et eeee 
ft fif | ffr friTTirt wfkE kfir irk Am fkfsr *rfsr- 

fEEE, 195 2 ( 1952 EE 19) %EfE9T 3EE FEIEE fif ETE 
ffrrT =rrff tr ; 

m m, eee EfsrfEEE k srrcr 1 # eestkt ( 4 ) 

iro SEE EffEf'T EE Ef'lE Elk gr eteet; tee 

irfkkTT % mm tee fit ^E^fnr the frrift |* ; 

Tf 1972 fit eeh % hee fkr # Eftr 

ff RRift ffrtrjft 1 

[#o ttR— 35019 ( 102)/7 2 -ft otri^j 2 ] 


S.O. 3073.— Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of 
the employees in relation to the establishment known 
as Messrs' The Coal Trading Company Limited P-38 
India Exchange Place. Calcutta-1 have agreed that 
the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should 
be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
bv sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions ot 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have com* into 
force on the thirty-first day of August, 1971. 

[No. S.35017 (43) /72-^F.II.] 


fTToSTTo 3 07 3. -HE: %-?>T HTfHT fff Hf Hfk fTfiT 
| % HE# ff ERE |FeH fTPpfl" fffo, fl- 3 8 ffw (rf(r#5T 
C HE, EWEFE- 1 TPTfi TE1TH % «?#- 

ETikrr k snpwr hth ht Hfwr gr h£ I ffr Ekfrfr 
Hfnw kfir kT I'rrar Am kf# nflrkHH, 1952 ( 19 S 2 
eh 1 9 ) % mAsr Tf?r we e# hpj fEnr wk HrfgH 1 

m m, tee zrfwfhm e# crrrr 1 e# twtt ( 4 ) 

SHT THE HfEHHt fT skk EFE frr ffTEH T hee 

HfckHH % thee wr prrf h fit tjdf j rrr ett fnvft I 1 

Tf 1 9 7 1 % ?Tf W % rrfr TlTf fff fit STf (T 

ft EJflfr ETrrfft I 

[Ro trq-— 35017(43)/72-'ft(T'?> 2 ] 


S.O. 3074. — Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of 
the employees in relation to the establishment known 
as Messrs Namoka Private Limited, 73A Ganesh 
Chand Avenue, Calcutta-13 have agreed that the pro- 
visions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made 
applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. * 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirtieth day of June 1971. 

[No. S.35017/44/72-PF.II.] 
fT° srr°3074.~w: JrwK fft tff Tfk fFrr 

| eft TEtfrr srr^fe frfrkf, 73fr tett w, 
fWfFTT- 1 3 EHTT WH Jl fEI fETtEfl Ek fntflkff 
fit m m Efw ete ft Ef | ffr fikrrkwffFr 

f«rfsr Ek f ?TT kfE frfkfdfE, 1952 ( 1952 fr 

1 9 ) % Eksr Tf=T WE fit EFT ff?q[ Ek ElfftT ; 

EE :, m, EfcT ERjfEfE fit 9TTT 1 fit ETETTT ( 4) 
TTTT E3TE Efffft fir EfTE f>k ffT ksk kfET EfE 
EfsrfEEE % Ef ETE fETTE fit fTW' Elf EtEt | I 

E^iirEgEET 1971 % % EtEf PEE fit TEE ff 

EElft ETtrift I 


[E° tr^o 35017(44)/72-Eto'Tc B o2] 


S.O. 3075. — Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of 
the employees in relation to the establishment known 
as Messrs Gayways Publitity Private Limited, 
45-Panchkuin Road, New Delhi have agreed that the 
provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should 
be made applicable to the said establishment; 



4406 


[Part II— 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTQjMfct 21. 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


hw N °^ ™ exercise of the powers conferred 

?ZJ^ ction ^ of . section 1 of the said Act. the 
Ro G A°'I e * nn lS nt hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This 'notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of August, 1969. 

[No. S.-35019/103/72-PF.IL] 


Wo Wo30 75.-*ra: ftdT | 

fsrftit, 45, vwr§ fts, ?rf 

feceffr dUFfT PTfiR % sffr wrwfHff ^ 

^iwrr war <rc Ff*rar ft *rf | % wrwrt qfwsq- ftfsr 

?tVt ffifsr ?rf 8 rfwr, 1952 ( 1952 w 19) 

^ &rt towt qft grnr fwr 3n% ; 


S.O. 3077. — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the • establishment known 
as Messrs Auto Sobressa Lentes, P.O. Box No. 16, 
Panjim, Goa have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of October, 1971. 

[No. S.35018/56/72-PF.II.] 


wo ot° 3077.— stiwt 4ft wj snfar ftar 


srt sr, swr wfafftwr # srrcr 1 swkt ( 4) 

5TO TWT srfftdftf W spftfi Weft gtr TT-T 

wfsrPm % sqsfar tw Rft ttfj; w^rt | 1 

19 69 % % st«pt fwr sfft sr^jw 

ft srasft 1 


«nEtNWNw$«®fcsr Ttertnftiirw fio i«q 
tfrtrr wm # ffiftYsr 1 wH wr- 

WfYlf? 5ffV IT 58FTcT W tffWJ ^ | wf W Y 

frftr «rtr |ewr qto Nfafftwr, 1952 

1 9 5 2 w 1 9 % w hp; fYu wft wff 1 


[?fo tr?f_350i9 ( 103) / 72- t fto cnfio 2] 


S.O. 3*76.— Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
Govemment that the employer and the majority of 
the emptoyees in relation to the establishment known 
as Messrs Hotal Solmar, Panjim, Goa, have agreed 
that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds 
and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
should be made applicable to the said establishment; 


•Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section l of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of December, 1971. 

[No. S-35018(58) /72-PF.II.] 


Wo Wo 30 76-wr ; tttwt *fft snfto 
flw | for wtw fpr nYwnr, Tfwr, ftrw tofr pttpt 
ft tfM4 fdTfWFft wHlfftif I W?T W 

ft *rf | f% wtwrt fftfii tftr ^ ^ 
ftfsr wfftfwnT 1952 (1952 w 19) %■ g’q^sr 

^TPT ^ft Hid ^5TT drift wfftr ; 


wr: , m, Nfafftwr 4ft tut 1 dft wri ( 4) 
iirr sr?i srfwftf w snM fir ftrsftir *rcwr 

!#m % TT4ST 3W pgRTh W UTT^m W»T Wf Y | 1 

iTf tlfTOWTT 1971 % WW4T % fWrYflf f^T^T git 
TfrTff FWTtwqrft I 

[fto 35018(56)/72-T% iripo 2] 


S.O. 3078. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
the Suryapet Co-operative Land Mortagage Bank 
Limited. Suryapet, have agreed that the provisions of 
the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable 
to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of th e powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of January, 1971. 


wr ww 44o srfirffiwr # snrr 1 # srgsrnr ( 4) 

grcr wm srpFwf w wtri ftT *rwt 

srflrfdW % ^■'RcT 

Wf ^tfspjWTT 1971 % fenro: % fwr 

srwr wnft wqrft- 1 

[?fo ip'o 35018(58)/724[-oqrcBo2] 


[No. S- 35019(101) /72-PF.II.] 

Wo Wo 3078.-WT: 3'<W < iff IwtrT 

4 T fH pT T a ’ £ 
TfpTVPSrFFr^ ffiifYjfT wYt wNTftift^tarflTWT 

•rrfTRr fafsr 

1952 ( 1952W 19) 

^ fw?w# wffir ; 



Sec. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE Of INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4407 


m:, nr, rw srmF 1 Tf rwitt’( 4 ) 

SirrsRrT tt sprkr rttr fir' jWhr rtrtt?|!r 4 R 

ftrfj rrr f«rm t^rresm rtr i 

Tf ^fsrirsRT 1971 rrrtV % rrr fkr t> strtt 
§S rrst* ’Rropft 1 


[R° t*Ro 35019( 10l)/72->rVot^fio 2 ] 


S.O. 3079. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Process Syndicate, 21, Darya Ganj, Delhi-6, 
have agreed that th e provisions of the Employees’ 
Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 
(19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said 
establishment; 

Now, therefore, > in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April, 1970. 


INo. S. 35019(109) /72-PF.II.] 


tfToNTo 307.-94rf: RTRTT Pff STRtrT jffRT 

| % RRR RTRR fRfefTR, 21 RfwiRST, fevft-6 hfOT 

wn r sfa sf^nfvrfr tY r§rsrt 
RTR tt rrrr ft I fV vfam Mr 5ftT 
3 ^ firm- ftfET r srfsrfBW , 1952 ( 1952 rt 19 ) 
% RRRRRRR?«rm3rt RFT frtr sriR 

nr: nr, rrr NfafRRR spV arm 1 ^ rtritt ( 4 ) 5 m 

NRR NfWTf TT RRTR %V3TR R7RTT R3R NfafERR 

RRRFRTR, TT tJRRim RTF TTrft |l 

Ilf NfRRRRT 1970 % N^R % RRR fRR RT ST^vT 
r ff RRNt RTrnft I 


[R°t[R» 35019( 109)/72-<fto tffo 2 ] 


S.O. 308#. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer- and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Oodlabari Company limited, 11, Rajendra Nath 
Mukherjee Road, Calcutta-1 have agreed that the pro- 
visions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made 
applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
foree on the thirtieth day of April, 1971. 

[No. S-35017/45/72-PF.IT(i).J 


flomo 3080.-RR: %RTtR RTRRT Rt Rif STRtRftRT 
| f% #rr NiRRiRid RmtfRftrtR, R^k^rRRR^ffTtR, 
TT+rfr fmr *rtrr % R*R5 fp-ft’SH Nk 
NtRgRRRTWRTR TT RfRR NfR<N 

ffifsr NlTRmRRRh fhfsr NfRfRRR, 1952 ( 1952TT 

19) % RRRRT RRR TRETR 4>> vTPj; faitr 

^rrf^r; 

nr: , nr, rrr nWrrr Tt arm i fift Rwm ( 4 ) 

dTTT RRR RfRRRT TT RRtR fl k?tR R7RTT 3^ 

NfaffiRR % RRRrST RTT TRTRR *FT dcRTPT RFT RTRlt 

Rf NpRRRRl 1971 % NTR T RtRR fRR Tt RRR 
gf RRlft TrTTfiT I 


[R° tTRo 35017(45)/ 72— RtotrRjo 2(i)] 


S.O. 3081. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the first proviso to section 6 of the Employees’ Provi- 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), the Central Government, after making necessary 
enquiry into the matter, hereby specifies with effect 
from the 30th April, 1971 the establishment known as 
The Oodlabari Company Limited, 11. Rajendra Nath 
Mukherjee Road, Calcutta-1 for the purposes of the 
said proviso. 

[No. S. 35017/45/72-PF.(ii).] 


TloRTo 308 1‘ — TRRRt NfR^R ffitR 

Nk jeir rrr fdfar NfsrfRRR, 1952 (1952 4T 19 ) 
^ srnr 6 % tnr gTrr spstt 4T 5pftR 

%r?kR73iTT fR fTTT ^ R1RW+ RTR T %% 

% ITR-pm RtRRTTTfl klfRER, 1 1, 

TTRf? BTN TtT, TRWr- 1 RTR^ TRFTR 20 RRR 
1971 ?T RRcT % RRkpff % fRRf%fdf^;^!Rp 

[Ro trRo 35017(45)/72- t fto lrt^o 2 (ii)] 


S.O. 3082. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Goa Mineral Ore Export? Association. Vaglo 
Building, Rua Conde De Torres Novas Post Box No. 113, 
Goa, have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ 
Provident Founds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 
(19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said 
establishment; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of December, 1971. 

[No. S. 3501 8 (60) /72-PF.II.] 



[Part II - 


4408 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


mo 3082 JET: (TUfTC ^ qf STcftcT 

fterr | f% rer qfar fEETE «rfc t’EtfEqFR', 

qur?rt fsrfcqq, (qrafrifs eIte qfaici, Ttrs ere eo 113 

#*rr etet ?irm 4 e*ete fEEtoErf «fk EET'Erfwf, 
e 4 fwr ?e ete qr e^ee f> Ef | % eetekV Effcq 
Prfsr srh: fzm tee fqfg- qfqfEEE, 1952 (195 2 tt 

19 ) %■ EEESr ^ee q't ETE fqnr qr4 Elff q ; 

m : m, TEE EfqfEqE ^ ERT 1 TE EWRT 

(4) arm qqwwfqcrqlr tt tt'tt eke f q-, %?frq ettr 
3ee srfsrfim % ete'et tee fere ee tee jnr eft 

* N CS 

EKcft | I 

qf EftTfEET 1971 % fe(r«R irTcfTT#' °fEE 
ee tttt ft eestt srriTjfr i 

[(To irqo -35018 ( 60)/72-'ft° qn^j IJ 


S.O. 3083. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Badri Prasad Ashok Kumar, 2, Gurusaday Road, 
Caleutta-19 have agreed that the provisions of the Em- 
ployees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the 8aid establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of th e powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 rf the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of December, 1969. 

[No. S. 35017/47/72-PF.II.] 

EEo irio 3083-— TfT: (REEK Elt Ef SpftE 

ftET | f% EEE E?V EETE EETET fER, 2, TtE, 

tfvsfffiwr - 1 9 etee (w E fEEr-EE eR ER'ErfR] 
^ EfE«Er ?e eie tc e^ee ft *rf | f% +4^f<t irf^r 
fTfe?TtTfJi:?T?rTrT%?fRirpTtrrr, 1952(l952EE 19) 

% TEE^E TEE FERE fft EFT %rr eR ET%t ; 

®r=r:, ee, tee srftjfEEE E?r ert i # ewrt ( 4) 
srqtr 9if4d4f ee ee>e ere §cr ReR erpr tee 

EfSTfEEE % ETEEE EEE FEIEE EE rrqqjnT I I 

Ef EfiJE/EET 1969 % fEEFR % hEEIEE fEE E?t 
eetT §£ (TEsft ^rrtrift 1 

[#0 tTq o — 350 1 7 (47)/72-Jfto tnqo 2 ] 


S.O. 3084, — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Shri Ambica Silk Mills. Ashwinikumar Road, 
Surat-3 have agreed that the provisions of the Em- 
ployees’ Provident Fuhds and Femily Pension' Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April, 1971. 

[No. S. 35019/94/ 72-PF.II. ] 
EE 0 ?iTo 3084. — EE: %RR ETEEC Ef TER 

ftrr | % eee srfRErr faRT, eRee! fER fr?, 

1 1 3 eteet rtiee % mmz 55 ^ 

Tt qfFSTT w TT RffTdT ft Tf | % 

, fdfsr ?fh: tstt fqpj srfqpTiPT, 1952(1952 ^ 19 ) 

% 3TSRT psrm vTPT f%TT ; 

m, ^ mm 1 ^ Twro ( 4 ) 

frrr ^rfrd5ff spftq ^ fir ^rt 

TdT F4TFT TPT | I 

* N CN ^ 

Tf ^rfsrg^TdT 1971 % umr % srqq- fqq srfrr 
fl rwI sniTifl- 1 

[ 4 o ir?ro 35019 ( 94 )/ 72 - l fto cnRo 2] 


S.O. 3085. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs United Investment Corporation, 2, Gurusaday 
Road, Calcutta-19 have agreed -that the provisions 1 of 
the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable 
to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of December, 1969. 

[No. S. 35017(46) /72-PF.II.] 
m° 3085.— hcf: %T5tq (Knit <Ft hf ^ Heft'd 
flfiT | f% Rfl'4 iRTTfTS' WddFddd qTFTt^TPT 2, JJWCT 

sTfRW fd WTcI qr RfRcI ft JTf | % ^4 ^rI qfqnq 

1952 (1952^1 19) 

% mrmw (=srm qit fqnr 3 tt% xnfft»; ; 

mr., sTfafTTR 1 qft twttt ( 4 ) 

iTTniTfr wftarrf^srTErqr^-fq; ^-q qfq- 

f?m % Tqq^sr qft ^ircr ^Tq qyqt 1 1 

Tf srFsr^qqr 1969 % fqqi^T % fqq ^ 

TftT ft (PTff)- qTCTift I 

[(To tTqo 35017 ( 46 )/ 72 -qt° xr^o 2] 




Sec. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21. 1972/ASV1NA 29. 1894 


4469 


S.O. 3086. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Saco Rubbers Private Limited, G. T. Road, 
Kundli, District Rohtak have agreed that the provisions 
of the Employees' Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable 
to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, In exercise of the power s conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment, 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of February, 1972. 

[No. S. 35019/25/72-PF.IKi),] 


TO° *lTa3086. — TO: terfa RTTOT Uj[ STcfarffaT 

| fr #%r tow srrt«te fr r fa tr. sfto Wo to, |r>TOfr, 

fTOfarfilrtftT: TONrrfwf 
TO TO SJTO $ $ f% TOTTrft RfTO 

fafa fdfT WfafTOR, 1952 ( 1 9 5 2 TO 19) 

% TOTO TO TRCTO 'Ft fair wf^q ; 

TO:, TO, TO^wfaf-TTO %T NfFT 1 TTNITT (4) 
SIFT TOT TrftTIl TO TOtR TOW gq TOTTO TO 

srfNFTtnr % tor* wto wm %t qw^sra np); TOT-ft $ 1 

Tg trfk'JT'Tr 1972% TWfT, % TOT fTO TOT 
j? TOwT 41 q*ft 1 

[RotT^o 35019(25)/72-'fTo iTTRo 2(i)] 


S.O. 3088.— Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs H Bloch Engineering Private Limited, Veer 
Nariman Road, Bombay-20 have agreed that the pro- 
visions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family 

^ ct ’ , 1952 (19 af 1952 >- ^ould be mad. 
applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of th e power? conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act the 
hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

. ™ s n °bfl“«on shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of October, 1971. 


[No. S- 35018 (61) /72-PF.II(i).] 


’ETo Wo 3088. -~m: RTTOT ^ 

iJ%TT t f% qw HPT f^fTOr, 

^ trWr cte, 3rwf- 2 o to wm ft swar fftqftror 
TOWTfwf %r TgtfwT to tot to tort ?t vf | 
f% TTvrfr tfftw frTsr vV Fbr fafar *rfftfftzw, 

1 9 5 2 ( 1 9 5 2 TT 1 9 )% TRWiT wm %r NPJ f%q 3[T% 
^rfgq ; 

sier:, m, to TrfftfrTO %r arm i topct ( 4) 

TPT TTff vrfkvrt TO TOR TOW |rr, TO3TR *TTOR TFT 

NfuFTm % tow tot wto %r qT|;mm^ TOfr $ 1 

^ 5TfrgTOT 1971 % TO^TO, % ^ 

tot gf TOjfr wqjft 1 

[Ro qfT- 35018 ( 6 l)/ 72 -T)-o q-Eo 2 (i)] 


S.O. 3087. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the Irst proviso to section 6 of the Employees’ Provi- 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), the Central Government, after making necessary 
enquiry Into the matter* hereby specifies with effect 
from the 3lst October* 1971, the establishment known 
as Messrs H. Blloch Engineering Private Limited, Veer 
Nariman Road, Bombay-20 for the purposes of the said 
proviso. 

[No. S. 35018(61)/72-PF,Il(li).l 


to Wo 3 os 7 .- totok, Thrift Nfrw 

1952 ( 1952TT 19) 

rtot 6 % m tot^to jttt ttot Nfror tot totEt to* 

gq, TOT£ fTO Sr TOTOTO TOTT TOT% % TFTOR[ 3 1 TTO T, 

1971 % qT TOT ^frofw STT^TO Mtof, sfk 

RrtrRT STtSf, TWf-20 T7RT WTO %t qfT^RT TOT 

tRyf'E %STTtTOf % f%q fTfTfTSE TTcFT | I 

[tfoiTSo 35018(6l)/72-'fto q^fio 2(ii)] 


7“ , ii appears lo me (Jentral c±n\r- 

ernment that the employer antf the majority of the 
employees m relation to the establishment Sown as 

mstHct J Tamii !C^ ad T yS Pattlveer abpati, Madurai 
Tamil Nadu, have agreed that the provisions 

Fund^ P wsrfia nf^Q^ Funds and Family Pension 
runa Act, 1952 (19 of 1962), should be made annlicabla 
to the said establishment; appucaDie 

Now, therefore, in exercise of th e power? conferred 
by sub-section (4) 0 f section 1 of the said Act the 

the n s r a a id ArT e fn m ent h ? 6b ?' ap!jl,es the Provisions of 
ine said Act to the said establishment. 

This nottflcation shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April, 1972. 


[No. S, 35019/ 107 / 72-PF.1I.] 


Wo ifio 3089. -Tel: TOFTC %t spfW 

?r%TT | f% Rfpt wto frsro Trfr ftTrrort', Rmf f%w, 
wfiTOTT, WTO WTO % TOT fTOTTO scftT T^Tlfwf 
TR TO TO TO.TO St Tf | TrfV RfTW 

fdf% Tfrr ffw 7 to fHfsr Trfsjfww, 1952 (1952 
TO 1 9) % TOTO TO WTO %r f%q TTf^q ; 



tan gazette of india: October 21 , 1972/asvina 29, 1894 


[Part II — 


4416 


SET:, TR, TTtT FfaffETR F[ RKT 1 F> RTRTU ( 4) 
fTTTT SPEcT Ffafpff FT WET FCT |t, FffR REEK RFT 
EffapEET % R'UER RFT WEET Ft ETR^JTTT UEJ FETt 

I I 

T? STfsrgR-TT 19 72 % STT'T % TFT fc-T Ft ST^R 
refT Frrrrjft 1 

[(T° n;?ro-35019( 107)/72-ftotT45o2] 


S.O. 3090. — In exercise oi the powers conferred by 
the flrst proviso to section 0 of the Employees' Provi- 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), the Central Government, after making necessary 
enquiry into the matter, hereby specifies with effect 
from the 1st February, 1972 the establishment known 
as Messrs Saco Rubbers Private Limited, G, T. Road, 
Kundli, District Rohtak for the purposes of the said 
proviso. 

[No. S. 35019/25/72-PF.II(ii).] 
FTo mo 3090.- RTFTT F#FrfT Ffaw 

ftfsr 'fmr f?rfsr FfsrfaRir, 1952 (1952 

ft 19 ) 4 ?[ trra 6 % sm tt^f sttt sr^er wfaTFf ft 

WlF FTft grr, f?m 4 FETITF FtF FEt % TRET 

1 FErft, 1972 % fortf 4 f> EeJ TT^T ofto 

tvs, f fsrwr g?ff retweet Ft 
TFT TF^F % snfMf % fair FFTt ^ I 

[RotJRo 35019( 25)/72-4tot[Fo2(ii)] 


New; Delhi, the 5th September 1972 

S.O. 3091. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (2) of section 5D of the Employees Provi- 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1962), and In supersession of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and 
Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employ- 
ment) No. S.O. 36 dated the 27th November, 1971, the 
Central Government hereby appoints Shri A, S. Satta- 
natthan as Regional Provident Fund Commissioner for 
the whole of the State of Madhya Pradesh to assist 
the Central Provident Fund Commissioner in the dis- 
charge of his duties, vice Shri T. Sadasivaya, 

[No. 17/2/ 6 7-PF .1 (1) . 1 


FffFFTt, 5 fRTWT, 1972 

FTo FTo 30 91.- F^Frft FfRW fafa FTW 
^FR fafa STfafFPT, 1952 ( 1952 FT 19) Ft STITT 5 F 
Ft REFITT ( 2) JTTT RFF FfFETT FT 5RtF FTt gif T^T 
FEET RTFTT % FF Sj"l< 9,641(1 RtfMM ( FF wl 1 TfalFTT 
foFET) Ft?rfsrfFTTTt®TTFTo 5TTo 3 6 RTfta 2 7 RTETT, 
1 9 7 1 Ft TTftPfirR FFt gE ^EsTtF RTFTT «ft €toRFlfF$RT 
% WET TT Mt qo itr 0 RTETTFF Ft %*ftF FfaW fafe 
FEJFT Ft FR % Fr^®ft FT fF^TET FT^t % IV u , 

RFW FW 5T$F TER $ ^FTTTTT STT^fFF Ffa«F faftT 
FETFT PTfRT FTtft | I 

[Tf5FT 17(2)/ 67-^0 l(Fo l(j)] 


S.O, 3092. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (1) of Section 13 of the Employees’ Provi- 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), and in supersession of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and 
Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employ- 
ment) No. S.O. 48 dated the 1st December 1971, the 
Central Government hereby appoints Shri A. S. Satta- 
nalhan to be an Inspector for the whole of the State 
of Madhya Pradesh for the purposes of the said Act 
and of any Scheme framed thereunder, in relation to 
any establishment belonging to, or under the control 
of, the Central Government, or in relation to any 
establishment connected with a railway company, a 
major port, a mine or an oilfield or a controlled indus- 
try or in relation to an establishment having depart- 
ments or branches in more than one State. 

[No. 17/2/67-PF.I(il).] 


FTo FTo 30 92.-F#TEft Mr tflT fTW 

^TET ffifij FfRfFFF, 1952 ( 1952 FT19) Ft RTTT 13 
"ft FFRTTT ( 1 ) &KI SRER FpRETt FT TETtF FTET gF 
FTTF RTFTT % >4*1 sftT T/TT'RT FfiJTIRF (FF TflT ifatFTT 
fTFTF) FfR^FFT R5FT FTo FTo 48 ETTfrU 1 fcR«TT , 
1 97 1 Ft FfRFittT FT^f gF FFflF RTFTT ^d^aKi F° 
FF 0 RccETETF Ft 7TFT WfETpEET ?ftr 'T({F SRlfET fFTfafT 
fFlft % Mntoint % fRTT ^Efftr TTTFTT RT 
pERT«mftR fFTft WET % TTR^R % RT fFRt ^yT FR^ft, 
RgERTTF, ’STETFT ctTT sfa FT pET%(T T^fET R fiWfapT 
Mt WFET % TE^TR R RT tFTft WEET % TE-5ER t 
fTIB% fFfiET TT FE3mi T[F % RfRF TT^ff R gt, 

RSR 5T^F TTW Pli( PfCtQTF ffi^FT FT?ft ^ I 


[(to 17( 2) /6 7-^01^60 1 ( ii ) ] 


S.O, 3093.— In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-scction (1) of Section 13 of the Employees’ Pro- 
vident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 
of 1952), and in supersession of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Em- 
ployment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment) No. S.O. 3349 dated 13th September 
1968, the Central Government hereby appoints Shri 
N. T. Kuxuvilla to be an Inspector for the whole of 
the State of Tamil Nadu and the Union Territory of 
Pondicherry for the purposes of the said Act and of 
any Scheme framed thereunder, in relation to any 
establishment belonging to, or under the control of, 
the Central Government, or in relation to any estab- 
lishment connected with a railway company, a major 
port, a mine Or an oilfield or a controlled industry or 
in relation to an establishment having departments or 
branches in more than one State. 

[No. A-12010/5/72-PF.L] 

FT* FTo 30 93. — F^TTtf Ffaw ftfa *flT 
fTW $?ET ffifR FfkfxEET," r 1952 ( 1952 FT 1 ©) 
RTTTjjj 1 3 4ft FWTTT ( 1 ) 3TTT SRW FfFEft FT SETfa 
FT% JT[ sffT FTTfT RTFTT % (W , tUEITT ?ffT 
EWUET TtTETTT fFEET ) FftT^ETT Ro 

FTo RTo 3349, RTftW 13 fWRT, 1968 F> RfR^TT 



Sec. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 44H 


mk %yfk toe Hr t^-o Tnefkn 

k wt yfykw Hk w% mak fkfw fkfr kk 
% wkkt % fH<r m£k ron: % tt wH kwynfk 
fak row % romy H yr fkfr kr twHt, y|rrm 
sift tt Ht #y ft fkfk yHk % wyfkT fkft row 
% romy H yr HH row % yroy H, fyy% w h wkT 
TTW ir faTTR TT WESTIT %\, TWN dfyWTf UW Hk 
Trfjrkr H=I TTWik % f?T'T fHkw kjW TOrfr I I 


[H° T° 12016( 5)/72-'ftoI^RoI] 


S.O. 3094.^In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (1) of section 13 of the Employees’ Provi- 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri 
B. L. Chopra to be an Inspector for the whole of the 
States of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh and 
Union Territory of Chandigarh for the purposes of the 
said Act and of any Scheme framed thereunder in re- 
lation to any establishment belonging to or under the 
control of the Central Government or in relation to 
any establishment connected with a railway company, 
a major port, a mine or an oilfield or a controlled in- 
dustry or in relation to an establishment having de- 
partments or branches in more than one state. 

[No. A-12015/2/70-PF.L] 

Tio trio 3 0)4 - TT^Tfr yfyey ffify tftr 
fTW Hw fyfy STfafWT, 1952 (1952 W 19) 
k OTTI 1 3 TT WHITT ( 1 ) 3KT WW kwH T TO wk 
Tk jjrr, %kk (TCek <1 Ht peto Hk?ij 
k tw yfyfky Hk yy% ykk fkfw fwfr kW 

% WkHf % fa-rr kfk TOTOT % TT JT% kkTTyk 

frHV PUTT % flTOy ir yi f%Hl kl TOWT, y |fik W, 
oth Tr t-t yr fkfk yew ir ywfky fwfr wiw % 
Troy if yr ftrfr Hy mm % Troy if fHr% ^ 

H HkT WTT if fkUT TT TWIT f , WJH TUTT, 

Tkl, WHi dTT y?#Ty? % TOfk TlfTT &W % 

kcr faftSTT kfTO TTfft | I 

(iff q-12015(2)/70-'ffo iTTloI) i 


S.O. 3095. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (1) of section 13 of the Employees’ Provi- 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), and in supersession of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Em- 
ployment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment) No. S.O. 3577 dated 27th Septem- 
ber, 1968, the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shri P. Haridasachar to be an Inspector for the whole 
of the State of Kerala and the Mehe Area of the Union 
territory of Pondicherry for th e purposes of the said 
Act and of any Scheme framed thereunder in relation 
to any establishment belonging to, or under the control 
of, the Central Government, or in relation to any es- 
tablishment connected with a railway company, a 
major portj a mine or an oilfield or a controlled in- 
dustry or in relation to an establishment having de- 
partments or branches in more than one State. 

[NO. A-12016/4/72-PF.L] 


TOo Tfo 3095 — "h-HhlO fHfy sk 

fzw ttet fyfy yfykyr, 1952 (1952 TO19) 

HR! 1 3 k TTSTTO ( 1 ) JKI wfkyli TO Hyk mk 
Hk TTW TOE % «TT, TWT 7 Hk jwk TWIW 
(«it sik itwi fkmr) Ttf Ho tto mo 

3577 dkk 27 1968 qfr wfsuptd Ttk 

_ kkl RTTTT TT^RT Hf Tto ffkurTT TT srfST- 
J-wr Hk mHk fkfkr fwf % Tkkr 
% Rtt tor % tt frywryk fkflr 
% romy H m fwf kr tottV, yfir?dT, to 
tt kr m fkffkr % yrskyci froff wm % 
y^uy H tt k rom mroy H fror% tt H yfyn 
TT5T if fkrET m 5TESTT ff, T<Tf TT^'T !jk ltfT%k 
Hr test sk % ak % fk[ Rkrepfi Trkf 1 1 

[Ho T-12016(4)/72-Hfo TTo-I] 


S.O. 3096. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (1) of section 13 of the Employees’ Provi- 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), and in supersession of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Department of Social 
Welfare No. S.O. 393 dated 31st January, 1966, the 
Central Government hereby appoints Shri A. S. 
Lakshmanan to be an Inspector for the whole of the 
State of Andhra Pradesh for the purposes of the said 
Act and of any Scheme framed thereunder, in relation 
to any establishment belonging to, or under the control 
of the Central Government, or in relation to any es- 
tablishment connected with a railway company, a 
major port, a mine or an oilfield or a controlled indus- 
try or in relation to an establishment having depart- 
ments or branches in more than one State. 

[No. A-12013 / 1 /72-PF.I.] 

too 3 096 — tHttH yfHm fyfy Hk 
TpRy krr frfy srfyfknr, 1952 (1952 tt 19 ) 
sft yirr 13 k yrynr ( 1) yrcr ttot wfkHt srttHht 

toH -hi <t y tpt < % ymfkfi TOm fkiFr Tf 

H=> mo yro 393 ykk 31 yyyk, 1966 
k yfyrod roH gy y<+K yryiKT sft y o 
TT 0 yarm k yro yfyfkur Hk yHk fkfkr 
kHt kk % THtror'i % kr yw< % tt yy% 
fkkFmfk fkfl yqmH % romy H yi fkfl kr 
mkt, T|mcdH, to y k w? y fHHfkr yHk H 
yfkky fkfr row % yroy H tt fHHt row % 
yroy H fkk tt H yfyr to H fTTFi yk «iwtH 
|f, wc|Hr 5IFR tiw ti fw fktwr Iww wk 

[Ho T~ 1 20 1 3 ( 1 ) / 7 2 J ft oTT, o- Ij 



44x * 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21. 1 972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


LPart IT— 


S.O. 3097.— Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs CHOWGULE REAL ESTATE and CONSTRUC- 
TION COMPANY, PRIVATE LIMITED, Chowgule 
House, Marmugao, Harbour, Goa, have agreed that the 
provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should 
be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, Therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of Section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of July, 1070. 

[No. S,350l7/21/72-PF.(lI)(i).j 
r£ fteRt 6 ffiTORT 1 972 


Wo Wo 30 97. TO: tefPT tTPFT < ^ Jcfld 

| f% tor ftwr wrot 

WSM MwZz , 3TTO, WUJRTOt pr, iftw 

rtwc Fnwr % totst froWfir wtwMlr 

arw w Ryro 51 ^^ wiwu stMt 
fHftr sfk jhw fafer srftjfRTO, 1952 (1952 
w 1 9 ) % towr tor wr TOj; fwr w% wfyj ; 

wr;, wr, tor strfsrPTwr^^ wr 1 torto 

( 4)23m^3T^vcr wfrow w snfBr wil ftr rtwt 

’TOT WfafRTO % TORW RTO FRTTO t^d^STTl RTPJ 

I I 

^ ?rfR^WTT 1970% % TOR f%R SPfR 

5^ wwt wtrift 1 

[Ro tTB'-35017(2l)/72-'ftoiTqio2(l)] 


S.O. 3098. — In exerclso of the powers conferred by 
the first proviso to section 6 of the Employees’ Provi- 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952) the Central Government, after making necessary 
enquiry into the matter, hereby specifies with effect 
from the 1st July, 1970 the establishment known as 
Messrs CHOWGULE REAL ESTATE AND CONS- 
TRUCTION COMPANY, PRIVATE LIMITED, Chowgule 
House Marmugao, Harbour, Goa for the purposes of 
the said proviso. 

[No. S.35017/21/72-PF.II (ii) .] 


Wo Wo 2098.-. . .WTWtl RfWR fofa sftr 

%rr ffiftr srfaPm, 1952 (1952 w 19) 
6 % TOR 3 WJ TOW ^91 W WUt 

yT 0 lUpl? fTOR ir WWf wr % 

WWH ttWil U ^R^ TtTO 1TT3T WR^WR 

wwft, htsto fafais, yro, wujwwr yron:, 

iftw RPTO TOTTR 1 R~l I {, 1970 II TO 
% TOt TO f % M faffiftTO WRfr 1 1 


[Ro trqj-35017( 2l)/72ffotnfio 2 (ii)] 


New Delhi , the 8th Septejnber 1972 

S.O. 3099. — In exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 72-F of the Employees’ State Insurance Act. 
1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government, having 
regard to the location of the factories specified in 
column (4) of the Schedule hereto annexed in areas 
specified in column (3) of the said Schedule belonging 
to Beas Sutluj Link Project, Sunder Nagar, in the 
State of Himachal Pradesh in which the provisions 
of Chapters IV and V of the said Act are not in force, 
hereby exempts the said factories from the payment 
of employers’ special contribution leviable under 
Chapter VA of the gaid Act for a period of one year 
from the date of publication of this notification in the 
Official Gazette Or until the enforcement of provisions 
of Chapter V of the said Act in those areas, which- 
ever is earlier. 

SCHEDULE 


SL. 

No. 

Nam 3 
Of the 
District 

Name 

Of the 
Area* 

Name of the 

Factory 

I 

2 

3 

4 

I. 

Mandi 

Sunder 

Factories belonging to the 
Beas, Sutlej Link Project : — 
Auto Ship, Sunder Nagar 

(Himachal Pradesh) Nagar 


2. 

-do- 

-do- 

Carrer Shop, Sunder Nagar 

3- 

-do- 

-do- 

Machine Shop, Sunder Nagar 

4- 

-do- 

-do- 

Lubrication Shop Sunder Nagar 

5- 

-do- 

-do- 

Welding Shop, Sunder Nagar 

6. 

-do- 

-do- 

Tractor Shop, Sunder Nagar 

7- 

-do- 

-do- 

Rigging Shop, Sunder Nagar 

8. 

-do- 

-do- 

Pipe Shop, Sender Nagar 

9- 

-do- 

Slapper 

Structure Shop, Slappar 

IO, 

-do- 

-Do- 

Oxygen Gas Plant, Slappar 

IT. 

-do- 

-do- 

Acetylene Plant, Slapper 

12* 

-do- 

-do- 

Penstock Fabrcatlon Shop, Slappr 


[File No. S. 38014 (25) /72-Hl] 


Rf Mft, 8 fRdTrC, 1972 

Wo RTo 3099 . . . . WtWQ TTW sftfiT srftrfwPT, 
1948 ( 1948 W 34) %T WU 73R 5TO TOcR wfWRf 
W SpftR 'WxT RTOTC TOUla Wfg^ft 

% (4) it WRT, Rd'id fTOT 

qrZX RRT % WU31% TOR FRTO ( 3 ) if 

faPdR^d fpw sM ttw % ejsff *r, fro^r to 

iq fafdTO % WWR 4 fftx 5 % BTWsr f, WTfc*tfR 

WR ir ■RJcT yr, TO WTOT% %t, RTO Rftjfwi % 
WRTR 5-^ % W^ffa WWt % Mr RfaWT 

% RRFT w STfa^TOTT % WR if RWWT %r 
^ tVBfr riJ W RR % (otq vR efffi TO 

UptlPfifiR % WRTR 5 % RTWR TO SfiRf i[ STRW ?[t 

W^, 5ft tfr I ! 



Sec. 3(il)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4413 




>5FR 

Ro 

ff!R 

ffJ RTR 

47TWTR 471 RTR 

(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

1 

Rtr#t 

RjTmHTC 

SRTR, RffRR PR7 RlW 
$7 abRRTbr 

WEt RTR, ^TTRIR 

2 

3 

r%r) 

RRHd 

R«iW 

T4TW’ 

WR, 

RrfTR SITR, umiPUJ, 

4 

rrIrr 

R'4>FT; 

RTR, -pA'mRT 

5 

RRtW 

R4W] 

WT, 

6 

RRtR 

rrPtr] 

WT, i 

7 

RRldR 

R«fi4R] 

PcPtr RTT, gnnRRR 

8 

WPfR 

rrW 

TIVI ROT, R7RTRRT. 

9 

R«rt»fR 


RTR, fJoRT 

10 

RRtRR 

RRtW 

RT*f#5R %R crRF, 

11 . 

RRlRR 

RRfaff 


12 

RRftff 

RRtdR 

<RT 

Jldtril'ti Ri Pt+'dd IRTR, 

F^ccp?; 


[R o Rffo trg-o 38014 ( 25) /72-RR l] 


S.O. 3100. — The Central Government hereby res- 
cinds the notification of the Government of India in 
tho Ministry of Labour and Rehabilitation (Department 
of Labour and Employment! No. S.O. 787 dated the 4th 
January, 1972 published at page 997 of the Gazette of 
India Part II, Section 3, sub-section (ii) dated the 4th 
March, 1972. 

[ No. F. fl02(33)/7G-HI.] 

R7To RT° 1300 — RTR7R RTTR 

R TfTR % SPT RdRTff R^RTRR ( ! RR TbSTRR fRRTff) 
R% R° Rffo 5TT° 787, RKtRT 4 'dffRRl, 1972, 

3ft RRff % TI3TW, RTR 2, 3, ?1W (II), ffrfta 

4 HP#, 1972 % ST'S? 997 RT SRUftlfT «ft, RTf P pjfk ff 
TOT | I 

Jr</r 7T° 602 ( 33)/70'^^nt] 


S.O. 3101.— In exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 73-F of the Employees’ State Insurance 
Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948), and in continuation of the 
notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Labour and Rehabilitation 
(Department of Labour and Employment 
No. S.O. 2770, dated the 5th July, 1971, the 
Central Government having regard to the location of 
the Steam Laundry attached to the King George 
Hospital, Visakhapatnam, in an area in wMch the pro- 
visions of Chapters IV and V of the said Act are in 
force, hereby exempts the said Laundry from the 
payment of the employer’s special contribution levia- 
ble under Chapter VA of the said Act for a further 
dc- iod of one year with effect from the 1st August, 
1972 upto and inclusive of the 31st July, 1973. 

[No. S-38017(41)/72-HI.] 

R7[o STTo 3101.. — R7RRT% TPR ^flRT 
1948 ( 1948 Rff 34) R% RTTI 7 3-R sTRI RRdR RpEfffr 
rtt ipfrffV^ fr urcr RRRrn; % 5 stjt "jRRfff 
rwiett 1 ( rr T frmv) 7 # Vfsi^Rr %<> 

R7[o Sffo 2770 ffrfPl 5 tjfflf, 1971 $7 RR Jr 
rct r IVr'^Tt rrettr, rwraTOcFTR % rtr 3^ 
HT37ff R7t %% %, f%RJr RRR RrRfffffR % RSRTR 

4 sftr 5 % rrrri rttr % ■rrP-rPr R?r grtr Jr tstcT 
fir rrr ' ?rrafr sfft Riff ^rftrpFHT % rsttr 
5-47 ^ srreftff ppftspF % srfrrOT - 37 rrtr 

% 1 SPUR, 1972 % 31 7JRT$, 1973 dW fRRJr Rf? faff 
tfr trP-nP-i ’ ff sflr q-'t rtv 47raTdfe % fkrr TTffjjirr 
Eft: M % I 

[Ro RRo n 7To-38017(4l)/72-TTffo^Rfo] 


S.Ot, 3102. — Tn exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 73F of the Employees' State Insurance Act, 
1948 (34 of 1948), and in continuation of the notifi- 
cation of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 
Employment) No. S.O. 3060 dated the 31st July, 1971 
the Central Government having regard to the loca- 
tion of the factory, namely Sharavathy Hydro Elec- 
tric Generating Station in Jog in an area in which the 
provisions of Chapters IV and V of the said Act are 
not in force hereby exempts the said factory from 
the payment of the employers’ special contribution 
leviable under Chapter VA Of the said Act for a fur- 
ther period of one year with effect from the 30th 
Aueust, 1972 upto and inclusive of the 29th August, 
1973. 

[No, S. 38017 (74) /72-HI.J 
rro ?rro 3102 — wrn% tiw sft-JTT RprPrRR, 

1948 Rff( 1946 R7T 34) 4% RUT 7 3R 5TTT SRTff wfocEff 
47T M'-Tl'M R7R% ijrr sflx RTffT RTRTpt % RR R"tT y.'idTff 
RRTTRR " ( RR^sfa: *ft44K fRRTff) Rfv^ffffT Ra 
R7T° RT° 3030, RTft'R 31 1971 $7 RiR Jf 

rtwt jftr Jr fcm RCRfr f&tr 

4 . 1 17 TT% dTt t>Jr Jr, fffffJr 1W vftrfwr ^7 5TCTRT 

4 r“N: 5 $ RVRT7P[ffi', RRTfufff 47t RTff R T1R?1? 
VR '47T RfvfdRR % 51MPT 5 R7 % 

fffOiRn % fror VfR^TR %RTTR%30 Rff RT, 
1972% 29 RRFff, 1 9 7 3 dR7 faffJf Rg ; fel Rt 
t, TIT !fk ’tfV VffRl ^7 %tr PT^rOr 55T 4rf[ | | 
[%o ITTo itro 38017 (74)/72-qR ¥R^] 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II — 


4414 


S.O. 3102.' — In' exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 73-F of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 
1948 (34 of 1948), and in continuation of the notifica- 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry ot 
Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment) No. S.O. 3059. dated the 31st July, 
1971 the Central Government having regard to the 
location of the Vaccine Institute. Nagpur In an area 
in which the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the 
said Act are in force, hereby exempts the said Insti- 
tute from the payment of the employer's special Con- 
tribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act 
for a further period of one year with effect from the 
4th September, 1972 upto and inclusive of the 3rd 
September, 1973. 

[No. F. S-38017/73/72-HI.] 

W° Wo 3103:— 7TW T*W 94 ftl Pi -M -H , 

1 948 ( 1948 W 34) 47* STPT 73ff 3TD 5R4T Ulfwff 
W wfFT ’R7* fnr TTR TOF % WT 4T*r 
wrm (wr srk t*wp: Rdtr) 4?* ErfwfRr 
Wo W 03059 , rlrtfor 31 1971 % WT R %?£*T 

TOR £*W ti'Ht Id, 'TFFiy 47* tfR if, P-tu+i dtd 

ETfaRlWT % 4RTR 44f*T 5 % TWRT Tfcf WlR^fd W 
ERff**7^frrWffT>TR4i*T4ff SlM^^ 5-47 

% wrk Twrwrta Pit! w % fwrr srfrrcrc % ifaw % 

4 Rrrt, 1972 if 3 f*rw, 1973 wr f3R*r w Rr 
» f* tRrRr t , scflr sp* 4 ?* ?r*rfEr % fav rt- jtdt 
^ t* 5* I 

[iio Wo rr*To 38017/73/72- V^o iflfo] 


S.O. 3104. — In exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 73F of the Employees’ State Insurance 
Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), and in continuation of the noti- 
fication of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment) No. S.O. 3920 dated the 18th Sep- 
tember, 1971 the Central Government having regard 
to the location of the Electric Sub-station No. IV, 
New Delhi Municipal Committee Market Lane, New 
Delhi in an area in which the provisions of Chapters 
IV and V of the said Act are in force, hereby exempts 
the said Sub-station from the payment of the emu- 
lover’s special contribution leviable under Chapter 
VA of the said Act for a further period of one year 
with effect from the 4th September, 1972 upto and 
inclusive of the 3rd September, 1973. 

[No. F. 38017/72/72-HI.l 


wo mo 3io4:- w*wfr TTw 5f*w srfafwpr, 

1948 ( 1 948 W 34) 47* WT 73 T 3WT WW Ui RhtT 

w wfRr 477 ** ifr hr wwr % wr ivtPt 
wrMfi ( wr stV ■CidfiM Rnmr ) 4?* srfwfwrr to 

Wo Wo 3920, TRbT 18 Iw, 1971 % WT Si %?#*T 

wwt, t# fw^fr tw stRtw tRtRt, tfS*: fff Rtr* 

% Pwtt w-^wr To 4 47 * R 1 ** . fwrJr wt ^tRtRpdt 

% WWT 4 WVT 5 % TTWEI 5PjTrT * JERfarfa 47* WR 
Sf TWt f 17 TW W-FlWT 47t 7W wftTfdWW % WRR 5-47 


% trtfiT wirgfirT Rmw % fwi tFwtt % tftt t 
4 f*rTRT, 1972 # 3 fTWW, 1 973 TT fwt ^ ftff vf* 
TfcfffTT % rrj 5TT # SRfil % fair n[T^RT ^ 
T4* & I 

[To Wo 38017( 72)/72-TTo W$o] 


S.O. 3105. — In exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 73-F of the Employees’ State Insurance Act 
1948 (34 of 1948), and in continuation of the 

notilication of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment) No. S.O. 3671 dated the 7th 
August, 1971 the Central Government having regard 
to the location of the factory, namely Haryana vete- 
rinary Vaccine Institute, Hissar, in an area in which 
the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the said Act 
are in force, hereby exempts the said factory from 
the payment of the employers special contribution 
leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act for a 
further period of one year with effect from the 30th 
September. 1972 upto and inclusive of the 29th Sep- 
tember, 1973. 

[No. F. 38017/70/72-HI.] 


Wo Wo 310 5 :— wtTRt DW TtW iTfgffiWT, 
1948 ( 1948 W 34) 47* STFT 73^ i?PT Wrrf wfafftff 
W TTRl 4Tr^ f nr iftr VTFT T 14777 % WT fflT 'JW’rT ffffm 
(wi 4** T ftJTF: fffffFT )W ffo Wo Wo 

3671, ffpR-ff 7 4TW, 1971 % WT WW7, 

T^-ffffWW €*W TWIT, ffRK TFI4T WTW% 
47* rrir J4 if, W fffffRrTff % WS'TTV 4 5 % 

TTWETTf T % WrfwRr 47* ETrff Jr T4rT ffT T44T 47RW% 47* 
444 wfwRTDW % WTTT 5-47 % TTR TTTgffR RlTDR 
fwtT 4rRT4R % T4T4 T 30 RthTL 1972 ^ 
29 fWFW, 197 3 TV, PjTT W fffff ff* TfrillRff 
4T*T 4T 47* WTRlfET % f*Tff ^WsTITT 5d) f I 


[ffo Wo 38017( 70)/72-TTffo Wfo] 


S.O. 3106.— In exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 73F of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 
1948 (34 of 1948), and in continuation of the notifica- 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment) No. S.O. 3688 dated the 3rd Sep- 
tember, 1971 the Central Government having regard 
to the location of the factory, namely. Electric Meter 
Workshop and Instrument and Relay Section. Nirman 
Bhavan, New Delhi in an area in which the provisions 
of Chapters IV and V of the said Act are in force, 
hereby exempts the said factory from the payment 
of the employers special contribution leviable under 
Chapter VA of the said Act for a further period of 
one year with effect from the 11th September, 1972 
upto and inclusive of the 19th September, 1973. 

JNo. F. S-38017/75/72-HI.] 



Sec. 3(ii)j 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4415 


Wo RTo 3106 R^RTTf 7TW *f)RT TrRrfH'TTT, 
1948 ( 1948 W 34) Tt RPT 73R IRT RTW RpfdRl 

w R#r wk qk vnr=r fwrr % rr Rk rtiIr rrtrr 
(«PT Rk frTWT fRRFT) Rf Rpy^4TT To W RTo 
3 68 8, (TTTt'T 3 fTTRT, 1971 % WI if %E(k RTRK, 
WWFl, R'TR. JR-W R^RTR 7 it ^RRhr TW 

i% %¥R, f-TTI'T 471, Tf fkR> W. R¥ WR Jf fakf 

R4R RPUpTfiR % RERTT 4 Rk 5 % TPFR Rf R S, RTpPlfR 

tt err Jr fj ttt tpir w rw rFetPtrr % 
RSRPT 5R % RRTr R^RTRlR fRRlRR % Ftrt rPrttr % 
(irtr if 11 Pr^wd:, 1 972 T 10 fRww, 1973 rr 

frrJr 10 fRRRr 1973 fpTR[ RpRpRd' RR qk 
T?f RRfir % f^frr j | ^ | 


[To Wo ITR-O 38017/75/72-^To srifo] 


S.O. 3107. — Whereas the State Government of 
Tamil Nadu has, in pursuance of clause (d) of section 
4 of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 
1948) nominated Shri M.M. Rajendran. Secretary to 
the Government of Tamil Nadu, Department of 
Labour and Employment, to represent that State on 
the Employees' State Insurance Corporation, In place 
of Shrl V. S. Subbalah: 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 4 of tho 
said Act, the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendment in the notification of 
the Government of India in the late Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department 
of Labour and Emplovment) No. S.O. 2763, dated the 
27th May, 1971, namely: — 

In the said notification under the heading “[Nomi- 
nated by the State Governments under clause (d) 
of section 4]”, against Serial No. 14, for the existing 
entry, the following entry shall be substituted, 
namely:— 

“Shri M, M. Rajendran, 

Secretary to the Government of Tamil Nadu, 

Department of Labour and Employment. 

Madras." 

[No. F.U.201/1/70-HI-VO1.II.] 


Wo RTo 310 7-R<T:wkTrft RTW RlRT RftrfRRR, 
1948 ( 1948 W 34) 4Tt RPT 4 % TRW (q) % R ^ RCR 

Jf RfRRRTR Rft 1TW ^ Rf RRo RR 0 RTRWR, rPtr, 

RTfRRRTR RTWT, RR Rk ftwiTT fklTR, Rf sff jffo ftRo 
§*41^1 % PRPT W WTRlk TTW aflRT fklR if RR TRW 
W >1 fn Pi fbiC 0 ! % Pitt 1 1 -H Pi fg fwp[ ^ i 

RR:, RR, TRT RftjfRRR # 5TPT 4 % RHRJR if 
W?lR ETWR tPT^ffRT RPR RRWR ^ RR, TtnRTT 


Rk T/TTfT RRFRR (RR Rk T>¥TK pTTFTj -V\ Rftf- 
gRR Ro Wo Rio 2763, RT^R 2 7 R^, 197 1 Jf Rk 
RPT fHtRpfPiTT RRPTR WTl pf , RRfcj; : — 

RTR RpJRdRr Jf "[TTW RTWTt RPT RTO Ft TU 
(R) % Rak RFR fakk]” W>RR % r1t% W4T 14, % 
RR4 W RklR RpRpR R RL If PfWpTpTR Tfdfe 
srfrfWrfw Rf RFnfr, R<ik : — 

“rT TRo rrq-o yrtfrd, 

RfRT, dTfJTRTTT Rr-ppr 

v 

RR ?fl3: WT'TR fTRTR 

RJIT l” 

[tfSTTWo To 20l/l/70-iTR Rif— ROT 2 ] 


S.O, 3108. — Whereas the State Government of 
Himachal Pradesh has, in pursuance of clause (d) 
of section 4 of the Employees’ State Insurance Act. 
1948 (34 of 1948), nominated Shri Salig Ram, Minis- 
ter for Labour, Government of Himachal Pradesh to 
represent that State on the Employees’ State Insu- 
rance Corporation in place of Shri Sukh Ram. 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 4 of the 
Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), 
the Central Government hereby makes the following 
amendment in the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and 
Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employ- 
ment) S.O. No. 2763, dated the 27th May. 1971, 
namely: — 

In the said notification under the heading “[Nomi- 
nated by State Governments under clause (d) of sec- 
tion]”, for the entry against Item 11 A, the follow- 
ing entry shall be substituted, namely : — 

“Shri Salig Ram, Minister for Labour, Govern- 
ment of Himachal Pradesh, Simla.” 

[No. F.Z-16016/2/71-HI.] 


Wo R[o 3108-RT: fRRTRR 7TW RTWT 

^ Wklfl 7TW TTRT RfypFIR, 1948 ( 1948 W 34) 
Epf RKT 4 % ^ (r) % RfJRWT Jr Rf RlfRR 7TR, «PT 
RRf, fsTRTRR R^T RTWT Rf Rt TJR % P71R W R TRTTf 
TRW RfRT PfRR % TR TTW Tr RfdPlfsRR % Pw 
pi-HpildCe. fwiT ^ I 


RR:, RR, WTRTTt TTW RtRT RfRffiRR, 1948 (l948 
W 34) Rf RPT 4 % R-JTf'J T Jf %WfR RTWT tTR^JITr 
RPR RTWT % RR, TklRW Rk T4RTT RRTRR (RR qk 
TkpTP; fRRPT), R]- Rfg^RW Wo RTo Ro 2763, 
dPkr 2 7 Rt, 1971 R fWfifRfRT RRIR-T RPft |, 
RRfcj; : — 


RfR’JRRT Jf "[ttW RTW^f SPT RTTT 4 % 

(r) % RRk RT4 PfP: r -<i] ,r tMr %Rf%RT 1 l^fT 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II— 


44i 6 


% rtr% b?T Rfafrr % frtr tt ftrRfvrftaR Rfafte vft 
retry, HRtrr : — 

" i sft HrfVr ttr, 

’-TIT Bit, 

f^RrRR R : TH H’Srt, 
ftrBRr i” 

[ 4 o tro %T-i 6 oi 6/2/7 i-rr irrf] 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 8th September 1972 

8.0. 3199. — In the notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Labour and Rehabilitation 
(Department of Labour and Employment) No. S.O. 
764 dated the 3rd February, 1972, published at pages 
980 and 987 of the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 
3, Sub-section (ii) dated the 4th March, 1972 at page 
986— 

(a) in line 11 for "are not in force” read "are In 
force”; 

(b) in lines 16 to 17 omit "or until the enforce- 
ment of the provisions of Chapter V of the 
said Act in those areas, whichever is ear- 
lier”. 

[No. F. 603(33) /70-HI.] 
DALJIT SINGH, Under Secy. 


RR 

B’f fo?vfr, 8 fRRfRT, 19 72 


BRo HTo 310 9.,:- '4 1 d 6 TBB I % 'RR HYt 
JRRYr RRTRR («TR HtT TtSTTR f%RTR ) B% HfH^RRT 
Ro BRo RTo 7 64, Rl^BT 3 TlTRTt, 1972 %Y HTTR % 
TTRBR, HPT 2 J T a ? 3, TTBTJT ({{) , 4 RTR, 1972 

% RG5 987 RT RBRftTR Ht, % 'JSS 987 TT — 

(T) RRf YfBR if “RfH R$T t” % RRTR 77 
"sifH fc” HR, 

(i3T) 13% 15 YFbH % % “BT HH HB7 % f%'T, 
HH HT 4% TFT HfHf%HR % RE TIT 5 % 
TFTH HH eFHT % H^H Hgf HT%, hY %Y 
7f% ^r’ fHBRR H I 

[Ro 7R$R 603(33)/70-^R Rif] 
HHHYH Fr?, HHT RpHH | 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 8th August 1972 

S.O. 3110. — Whereas the Central Government having 
been satisfied that the public interest so required had, 
in pursuance of the provisions of sub-clause (vi) of 
clause (n) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947 (14 of 1947), declared by the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and 
Rehabilitation (Department of Labour _ and Employ- 
ment) No. S.O. 617 dated 22nd January, 1972, service 
in the pyrites mining industry, to be a public utility 
service for the purposes of the said Act, for a period 
of six months from the 22nd February, 1972, 

And whereas the Central Government Is of opinion 
that public interest required extension of the said 
period by a further period of six months; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by the proviso to sub-clause (vi) of clause (n) of sec- 
tion 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 (14 of 1947), 
the Central Government hereby declares the said ser- 
vice to be a public utility service for the purposes of 
the said Act for a further period of six months from 
the 22nd August, 1972. 


[No. F. S. 11025/3/72-LR.I.] 
S. S. SAHASRANAMAN. Under Secy. 

HR hYt Tmr^fTRFl) 

(R£ 8 BPHH, 1972 

TT° RTo 3110 HR: ^Yh flRi'E %, HR RBTHTH 
^Rr^RTlVwtRrflrcrJr^BT h%Fstr 
fHHTH rFrFbRR, 1947 ( 1947 BR 14) B% HITT 2 % 
BT*S (7) % TER 1 '* ( 6) % TDFHt % BFJRTH % , HTCR 
HTBRT. % HR m*K 7/ThYr (HR hY 7 rYhBTT fHBTR ) 
B% Rfk^RBT Ro BRo HTo 517 RKYbT 22-1 -1972 
HITT TlfTTRER 1RRR HRfpT % %HT B% HBR BffVFlBH $ 
HHYHHY % 22-2-1972 % BJ: RTR B% BRRTHfa 

% hYbt HRHYtY %HT HtfRR f%RT HT ; 


HR: %RfTH RTBRT B% TTR ^ f%T hYh f^R % HBR 
BRWTHftT BR 6 RTR Bit hYT BRWTHftT % fbfR HHTHT HTHT 

HR:, HH, HfafYfw fHHTH qfbPiiiB, 1947 ( 1947 
BR 1 4 ) B% HTTT 2 % *3W (?) %■ TF3W ( 6) % T < r ^V 
TTTT RTR BlfBRRt BR RRtR BTB% grr, R^rt 

Rif TJ RBR %RT B% RBR RfsrfRRR % RRtRRt % 2 2— 8— 

1 9 7 2 % 6 BTR B% m\ < BRRTRftT % FRp' RtBT RRRtRt %RT 
RtfRR BTTft | I 

[RBRT TRo 11025/3/7 2-itRo HTCo-l] 
trR o CTR o R^R RTRR, RBT RfRR | 



Sec. 3 (ii)] 


The gazette of indIa: October 21 ; 1972/asViNa 29, 1894 


441 i 


ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 

New Delhi, the 2nd August 1072 

S.O. 3111. — In exercise of the power conferred by 
sub-section (1) o£ section 13A of the Representation of 
the People Act, 1950, the Election Commission, in con- 
sultation with the Government of Tripura, hereby 
nominates Shri Sukumar Chakraborty, Judicial Secre- 
tary, Tripura Government, as the Chief Electoral Officer 
for the State of Tripura with effect from the 7th July, 
1972 and until further orders vice Shri Amitable 
Dutta. 

[No. 154/TP/72.] 
By Order, 

A. N. SEN, Secy' 

qrrRT forfar Turk 

•ft Ptevf! 2 5PRFT, 197 2 

ttro sffo 3111. — vfr*fr srfRfHftJcT ttMteut, 
1950 # arnr 13-47 qft rtstrt ( 1) aru T4?ct urfenff 

471 SI*Tl , f *P <cl Jff, PidHT TUT!*! fdT^TT TR47TT % TTTT?f 
^T, *ft TTfacffT 4cR % F4TFT TP, TgpRTT 

74 1 Pr 4 > FrfrT, fsTju rptttp, tt! 7 rC, 1972 t! 

SPT# TTT&ff TT fjJTT TUT % fiTq fTTUFT TTTfT RT 
$ Jr t[T^Tpr TmfT^ftrcr trcr 1 1 

[4° 154/%TTr/72]. 
’Hi^m it, 

ITR’o tTRo tlfTT I 


cabinet secretariat 

(Department of Personnel) 

New Delhi, the 4th September, 1972 

S.O. 3112- — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (1) of section 492 of the Code of Criminal 
Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898), the Central Government 
hereby appoints Shri J. P. Dubey, Advocate, Jabalpur, 
as Special Public Prosecutor for conducting the pro- 
secution, in the case arising out of RC No. 6/70- Jabal- 
pur, against Shri S. P. N. Sharma, ex-Pilot Officer and 
others, in the Court of Session Judge, Jabalpur, 

[No. 225/35/71-AVD.-II.] 
B. G. VANJANI, Under Secy. 

4 Pa h 1 "i RfTTPTT 

(47TfW sm-q) 

4 fiPUTT, 1972 

*ffo 3 112. — ■T’T trfw T%TT, 1898 
( 1 898 ¥T 5) 4ft ETPT 492 Wt R-qRTTT (l) 
ffTTJ M4t1 TrfTTTt 4 T JPTtT 4i<cl jj*! TR47K, 

tT?fH 4>te , 4RU JT Jf t[To Tto Cpfo 
qnrf, TjeOJ# TT^r WTpRR *fk ?T*ff % 
mTlflTo 6/70 44NTT4 ^R=T RTTR 1 $ ^ 


TrfwITFT TT R'4T4FT T f%T, yfr -q 0 fro 4#, wfSRTTdT, 
•a 4 1 T7 471 Hi vj T RTF ?rfB I fM e t> PpiTR 47 <d! % I 

[T44T 225/35/71-^0 4t° ^lo II] 


¥!o r!° TUbf!, TT4 < tifdd I 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 19th August 1972 

S.O. 3113 — In pursuance of the clause (1) of the 
article 239 of the Constitution, the President hereby 
directs that the Administrator of Union territory of 
Mizoram shall, in respect of that territory and subject 
to the control of the President, also exercise the 
powers and discharge the functions of the Central 
Government under the Explanation to section 26 of 
the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 (26 of 1881). 

[No. 13/19/72-MZ.] 


I. P. GUPTA, Deputy Secy. 


ijtt jfdruRT 


df fcuft, 19 titer, 1972 


quo *ffo 3113. — TFJMj-q 23^ m( l) 
% TPJfTP>T Jr, TTSJTfiT TT$TU 4^ fd^TT t fqr fT3f!TPT 
RTSTTftlR % STHIKR TJTFTd%J — TrftjfdRUT, 1881 
(188147T 26) 4?! RTTT 25 TWtTrprr % TRPfa 
TTfTT-¥nfWTrt «iR-% TPJ 4 TE£T% % fTTTN % TT!t 
TT qnr 4i! flfqcPlf 47T if! TTFT 4T>4 tflT rrq ifT 
wuldd ST'ff 47f y>i4 TiiriT I 


[40 1 3 / 19/7 2 — tpT o ITT] 


tjt^o 4! j ^ki 1 , Rt 1 


New Delhi, the 25 th August 1972 

S.O. 3114. — In exercise of the powers conferred bv 
Sub-section (1) of section 25 of the Code of Civil 
Procedure, 1908 (6 of 1908) and with the consent of 
the Government Of the State of Maharashtra, the 
Central Government hereby transfers the proceedings 
of Special Civil Application No. 16 of 1971 from the 
Court of the Judicial Commissioner of Goa, Daman 
and Diu at Panaji to the High Court at Bombay. 

[No. 5/2/72-GF.] 

By orders and in the name of the President of India. 

S. C. VAISH, Deputy Secy. 



44 1 8 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASV1NA 29, 1894 


[Part XI — 


fftcftt, 25 W, 1972 

ftto 3 1 1 4- fftfftcf TfTTT ftffdT 1 9 0 8 ( 1 9 0 8 4ft 

5 jft) 4ft SETT 25 4ft TffiTKT (l) 5T7J SETT Frfftdftf 
TT T474 Tift |it, cTT T Tffi TPE 4ft IP. 4 IT 4ft 
ft, ftffirfa RT4TT E4 19 71 4ft "'FT4FT fftfftT 
trpft%4pr ftSTT 16” 4ft 4ft tfdftTPT Wftt 

fftrr fttm, spnr t ftftr % ^rrfftr eejtt % ft 

^TFimr, 44$, aft T^TdTffifTT 4Pftt ^ I 

[ftw 5 / 2 / 72 -fto fto] 
TTTTdfti TPJT'fft % ?nft71-ft 44T T4% 4PT ft‘ 
gtd 4?a: ft?tr, tt tFtt i 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 5th September 1972 

S.0. 3X15. — In pursuance of sub-rule 3 of rule 57 
of the Arms Rules 1962, the Central Government 
hereby exempt In the public interest Hrs. Birgitt Her 
belt wife of Shrl G. Herbelt Consulate General of the 
Federal Republic of Germany in India from the pay- 
ment of fee for the Riant of renewal of any licence m 
from in set out in schedule III to the said Rule in 
respect of the arms and ammunition covered by the said 
licence: 

Provided that if the application for renewal of any 
such licence is not made within one month of the 
date on which the licence expires, the Licencing 
Authority, may, unless the applicant satisfies the 
Licensing Authority that he had sufficient cause for 
not making the application during that period, levy 
renewal fee at the rate of pustifled In the form. 

[No. 21/40/72-GPA. II.] 
AMAR SINGH, Dy. Secy. 

srrftw 

fftcftt, 5 fftffiCTT, 1972 

TJF° ftt° 31 15. STFrafffiTR, 1 96 2 % fffiPT 5 7 % 

3 $ ft, km rtct ft ffirpr 

fftlfWT spftfr % ffigT 4ftffi4 ^Rlyl) 

■sft sfto 4ft Toft fftrfftr fEifce: 4ft T4E 

ftrUR 4ft 3 ft 344^471 TFT 3 ft fftftt 

4 ft, T4?r % 4pdftr 4nft Tift ?rpjtr ftftr ftPrr 

STEPI % 4lft ft , ft^ftX 4T dftW c u l % fftft , % 7T4I4 

ft ftt4if^T ft , ^T^PT 75T ftcft | I 

TP5 Tfftfftftt Sbjjrfftr % 44I47PJI % fftft snftTffi 
TRcffifta' ft, fftffiftt 4ET7lfftT RTTPi ft 4ft RTT 
% fw irm $ ftt 4EJ3TFPT srrftrTrft, Tfft 

411^441 SfftffiVT TTfftrftft 4T TPTTSTFT 4TT ft^T | fft 
TTR TR SPlfft % ftkbT WlftTE T 4P4 4 T ffilfPT 


1^41 4T, T4tT Sr^T ft Enfttfftff SfTT^T^TTTT T4I4PTT 
4ft W4cT ft E%4T I 


[ftU4T 2l/40/72-4fto qfto tro II] 

5PTT fftft TfftT I 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 7th August. 1972 

S.O, 3116. — In pursuance of sub-sections (1), (4) and 
(5) of Section 6 of the Ha] Committee Act, 1959 
(No. 51 of 1959), the election of Shri Ahmed B. Zakaria 
as Chairman and Shrimati Shirin S. Somjee and Shri 
T, Abdul Wahid as Vice-Chairmen of the Ha] Com- 
mittee, Bombay, at the meeting of the Committee held 
on the 5th August, 1972, is hereby notified. 

[No. MIL 1181/19/70.] 
R. C. ARORA, 

Director (Wana and Ha] Affairs.) 

fftftw 


fftccft, 7 SfffiFT, 197 2 

iTRoftto 3116.— ^Nlfftfd srfftfftffiET, 1959 (l959 
4 T 51) 4ftNRT 6 4ft RWH (l), ( 4 ) *fk ( 5 ) % 
strjTpn- ft srsift ftr usm Tnrrwf ftr qftf 

TT ffiFrftftfftpi wifaffiTT ft ftffiTffiT Tt 5TTT 
fw 3441 $ ; ?H% T? 5 fIR 1972 4i't T4T 

Rfftfft 4ft t54i ft fdr 


1. 


ftt RftRT ftto 4r4TfT4T 

2. 

WSTST 


3. 

TTTSffiiT : 

ftV £t° 5ns|H 


[fto iTR-II-1 i 8 i/ 19/70] 

4TR0 ftlo RTlST, 
fftft?T4i (4T4T lift 44 ft) I 


MINISTRY OF WORKS AND HOUSING 
(Directorate Of Estates) 

New Delhi , the 11th August 1972 

S.O, 3117, — In pursuance of the provisions of rule 
45 of the Fundamental Rules, the President hereby 
makes the following rules further to amend the Allot- 
ment of Government Residences (General Pool In 
Delhi) Rules, 1963, namely: — ■ 

1. (1) These rules may be called the Allotment of 
Government Residences (General Pool in Delhi) Fifth 
Amendment Rules, 1972. 


Sec. 3(ji)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


441 9 


(2) They shall come Into force on and from the first 
day of September, 1972. 

2. In the Allotment of Government Residences 
(General Pool in Delhi) Rules, 1963, in S.R.317-B-11 in 
the Table below sub-rule (2), under the heading Events, 
in item (ixj alter the expression "F.R.86 ', tne iollowing 
shall be inserted, namely; — 

"or earned leave granted to Government servants, 
who retire under F.R.50(j)”. 

[No. F.12033(7)/71-Pol(U).] 

R- B. SAXENA, 
Dy. Director 
of Estates (Policy) 

farfar tfk hit ft 

(iPTTT fafavUBT) 

T^ 11 WTRT, 1972. 

V(o WTO 3117. — Treyiffi, TJB fTTT % farr 
45 % TWtlli % TFJTTT *r, TTWft faTTR T*TTfff 
«pt wnrcr (fewt Jr Tram $b) fwr, 1963 if 
Rsilun +<'1 % farxj t.1 Offt <cti3 

I, 

1. ( 1 ) *T fTTTf <Fr TFT TWrfr fTTRT-WTf 
TT HTT^T (fc?BT Jr TTNTTT 'JB) 'Tt'TTt TKTtBfT fWT, 
1972 ^TnT I 

( 2 ) JrfTTT 1 faRF^, 197 2 % 

2 . tttitT fmT-^TTTlr tt wfttt (fert Jr Tram 

<JB) flTT, 1963 Jt 5RJ° fTo 317 TT -11 Jr, 8'ifadT 
( 2 ) 3? t( 3 TTGfr Jr, "nttf*” tfHrr % jfr#, m 
(LX) jf, ‘%TT TT V fro 86 % HTtfrT 

jpJTcT Tir^^gT wfT*rf«W «fr 9 4TI<{, ffinf'dRsT 
*Fd: FTtfaB fpTT BFFTT, 

"tt qft rcTTfr jFT'fr bt bT 

V fTo 5b(-l) % mtfrT JmfTfftT I” I 

[tfoTTo 12033(7)/71-T^T(2)] 

TFT TWTT, 

TT TFTTT fapfaTT (TTIt) l 

(Directorate of Estates) 

New Delhi, the 7th September 1972 

S.O. 3118. — In pursuance of the provisions of rule 
45 of the Fundamental Rules, the President hereby 
makes the following rules furl her to amend the 
Allotment of Government Residences (General Pool 
In Delhi) Rules, 1963 contained in Part VIII, Division 
XXVI-B of the Supplementary Rules, namely; — 

1. Short title and commencement, — (1) These rules 
may be called the Allotment of Government Resi- 
dences (General Pool in Delhi) Sixth Amendment 
Rules, 1972. 

(2) They shall come into fotce on the date of their 
publication la the Official Gazette. 


2. Amendment of Rules 317-B-12. — In the Allotmont 
of Government Residences (General Pool in Delhi) 
Rules, 1963, in rule 317-B-12, in sub-rule (1), for the 
portion "provided nothing contained herein shali 
apply where the Central Public Works Department 
certifies that the accommodation is not yet ready for 
occupation", the following portion shall be substitut- 
ed, namely: — 

"Provided that nothing contained herein shall 
apply where the Central Public Works De- 
partment certifies that the accommodation la 
not fit for occupation,” 

[No. F. 1801 1 ( 17) /68-Pol.I.] 

R. B. SAXENA, 

Dy. Director of Estates (Policy) 
ex-offlcio, Under Secy. 

(TFTTT fa^ nTTT) 

T$ fteft, 7 facW 1972 

TTo HTo 3 1 18-~~ TIV/ffd, JJB fpFT46 % TTSfafr 

% *Ffm Jf, fTW $ HIT 8, TTTT 26-TT 

Jr HTfW, TTFTTfr fTTFT TTTTT TT HTT53T (fccBT Jr 
TTTTTT ^B) fapFT, 1963 Jt lfr< TfafTTTT VUT % Wr 
T^TT[1TTT fd T h f<i fal d fiuT TTTTT ^ i — 

]. tffaT'T' TFT TTGT. — (l) *T faBFrf *PT 
TFT TTTTfr fTTFT TTTTT 4T HTTTT (ffeft Jf TTTSrTBT 

<jb) ttFit frrr, 1972 tm \ 

( 2 ) *T f-FFT UBTB T WR filler <Pt ST^B 

I 

2. fTTT 3 1 7-— Tff— 1 2 «FT Tfafrar — RT'PTfl' fTTFT 
WTfif TT HTT3T Jf TmrKT 'JB') fTTT,1963 

Jr, fTTT 317-^-12 Jr, Tqfrrr (i) Jr “q-p^ ^Jr 
IFTfTC3 TTT TTWrJr BT^T^T ?>fr 

Bta ffirfr frTFi TrrfBT $ far t? bt? Hftr- 
TFT % fafa HTt ftTTTT^r I” TFT % TTTT TC, f T^T- 
fBfjT TFT STfaFTTfTT faiTT BTt[TT, — 

"TTr5 TTtJf TTTfTKT ^ »ft TTT TT TFfar if BF[ 
T^f bTtt frrfar fTHir sFnfaTfr 

TTT ^ far ttTTFT HfarW ^ tFT T$f | V' 

[To TTT« 18011 ( 1 7 ) / 6 8*Prfar— 1 ] 

TFTTT5|T TTTTT, 

TT TFTTt fT^TRi (fftfar) sftT TrfqT I 



THE .GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVJNA 29, 1894 


[PAW II- 


4420 

MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Expenditure) 

New Delhi, the 10th August 1972 

S.O. 3A19.— In exerqlse of the powers conferred 
by the proviso to article 300 and clause (5) of article 
148 of the Constitution, and of all other powers enabl- 
ing him in this behalf, the President, after consultation 
with the Comptroller and Auditor General of India 
in respect of persons serving in the Indian Audit and 
Accounts Department hereby makes the following rules 
further to amend the General Provident Fund (Central 
Services) Rules, I960, namely: — 

■1. (1) These rules may called the Geiferal Provi- 
dent Fund (Central Services) Seventh Amendment 
Rules, 1972. 

,(2) They “ ball come intp force on the date of their 
publication in the Official Gazette. 

2. In rule 8 of the General Provident Fund (Central 
Services) Rules, 1960, in sub-rule (4), for the opening 
paragraph, the following shall be substituted, namely— 

“The amount of subscription so fixed may be 
reduced once at any time during the course of the 
year or may be enhanced twice during the course of 
the year". 

[No. 13/ (2) -E.V. (B) /72-] 
S. S. L. MALHOTRA, under Secy. 


(Department of Banking). 

New Delhi, the 11th August 1972 

S.O. 3120.— In exercise of the powers cohf erred by 
section 53 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 
1949), the Central Government, on the recommenda- 
tion of the Reserve Bank of India, hereby declares that 
till the 1st February, 1973, the provisions of section 10B 
of the said Act shall not apply to the Bari Doab Bank 
Ltd., Hoshlarpur. 

[No, 16(1)-BC/71-II.] 
K. YESURATNAM, Under Secy. 

fwr) 

1 1 SUPrcT, 197 2 

3120 . — S'fcn PqhPUH srfafatm, 1949 
(1949 «ft iott) vV trra 53 4 srn vrhfdhi tr srcPr 

JIT, RJRd TR+K, HRrfrh fed! dT fh'blRvi 
«TC, Rd^II (T 'TtTTT NTUcft ^ d^d trfdf'iMU dft tiKI 
10 aft % It drft dt*rrd td fdfa£r, jtfw^ 

qT T^^ft RrCdft, 1973 dF RIF Rdf I 

[l- i6 ( i)-lt ^fr/ 7 1 II] 

To mX dfdd I 


(.Department el Banking) 

New Delhi, the 17 th August 1972 

S.Q. 3121. — In pursuance of clause (d) of sub-section 
(1) of Seqtion 8 qf the Reserve .Bank of India Act, 
1934 (2 of 1934), and In superseasion of the nqtiflcatioh 
of the Government of India in the ; J/Iinistiy of Fin Mine. 
Department q£ Banking, No. F. 3 (47)-BC/09, dated 
the 25th October, 1969, the Central Government hereby 
nominates Shri N. C, Sen Gupta, to be a Director of 
the Central Board of the Reserve Bank of India, vice 
Shri A. Baksi. 

[No. 9-l(5)-72/BOl.] 
V. M. BHIDE, Addl. Secy. 

(STtr Pdttr) 

df fo??ft, USHTCd, 1972 

tTRo %ffo 3 121. — MKrfth vfyfdhR, 1934 

(1934TR 2) OTTT dWRT (l) % WV (d) % 

spjstut ^r, sfk a cti c fw I'Ppr ftrord 

Tt irfy^ddl WT trqio 3 (47)-lto tfto/£9 ftdfal ?5 
Rtdtf T, 1969 TT , P , ryTM | 4| TRd Jfr, RTOf RPTK 
sft trRo 4to ajtdT .TTt, *ft tjp iPftft ft PTFT WKffPT 
I'd % %UTfh RJT TT <j£F RTfRd $ I 


[tfWT 9-^1 (5)-72/lto *fto J] 


[Jo:- tJRo fkrt, I 


(Department of Ranking) 

New Delhi, the 22nd. Augyji 1972 

S.O. 3122. — In exercise of the powers conferred 
by Section 53 read with Section Bo of‘ the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of lfl4fl), the Central Govjpx- 
ment, on the recommendation of the Reserve Bank of 
India, hereby declares that tl)e provisions of pub- 
section (1) of Section 11 of the said Act shall not 
apply to Cooch Behar Central Co-operative Bank 
Limited, Cooch Behar for the period from 1st March, 
1969 to 28th February, 1973. 

[No. F. 8/1/72-AC.] 
L. D. KATAR1A, Dy. Secy. 


Stott) 

df 22 MdTd, 1972 

f[Ro wto 3122- — Iffad fafdWT WrwGihH, 

1949 ( 1949 TT lOdt) dfr STCT 56 % dTO ifed *TRT 

53 % jra srfafRft ft SRfFi wrd gtj tor, 
R T Rd Pr fo>r^ tr ^ faTi i Rw tr dtfad Tiifr $ 

fo-3dd irftrfddR ETTTT 11 TORI (l)% 

firjrc 




9M. 3(ii)J 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASViNA 29, 1894 


4421 


TT 1 RT*, 1969 ?r 28 1973 cEE wfff 

% f^TR trpj fff£f jlMt I 


[ffWT RTio 8/l/72-R° tft o] 


u o sr o r^tr i 


(Department of Banking) 

New Delhi, the 24 th Auaust 1972 

S.O. 3123. — In exercise of the powers conferred 
by proviso to clause (a) of sub-section (3) of Section 
7 of the Banking Companies (Acquisition & Transfer 
of Undertakings) Act, 1970 (6 of 1070), the Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri D. N. Ghosh, Joint 
Secretary, Department of Banking, Ministry of Finan- 
ce, New Delhi as a member of the First Board of Direc- 
tors of United Commercial Bank in place of Dr. Aahok 
Mitra, with effect from 1st September. 1972, 

[No. F. 9-4(28) /72-BOI (II) .] 
D, M. SUKTHANKAR, 

Director. 

*T< 24 WEI, 1972 

rr° 3123. — WFft (R<mf W 

xttx, «RTW) MfaPdW , 1970 (l970 Iff 5) 

RTTT 7 TTRTO ( 3) % ^ (*)^r 5TTT RUT 

Efcfffft W Wtff JR, RTtR tt <,Vi RffRRTTT, RT ° 
wfW? ftrcr% WR qr »ft it o rr o wr, rrrr sfw, 
<f%n P dtpt, for foft yt 1 Rriwk, i 972 ?r 

ffinphf tv %■ W sfft T>T EUFR fopff 

'EUft $ | 

[tfo RRjo 9—4 (28)/72-^o ¥fto I (II)] 


^ 0 RR 0' EpiRR =vi J , fh% ‘M'ti ( 


(Department of Banking) 

New Delhi, the 24th August 1972 

S.0. 3124. — In exercise of the powers c onferred 
by proviso to clause (a) of sub-section (3) of section 
7 of the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Trans- 
fer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 (5 of 1970), the Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri M. K. Venkatacha- 
lam. Joint Secretary, Department of Banking, Ministry 
of Finance, New Delhi, as a member of the Firs! Board 
of Directors of Bank of India in place of Shri P. D. 
JCasbekar. 

[No. F. 9-4(28) /72-BOI(I).l 


(tfaff fRRTff) 

fff ffeff, 24 WITT, 1972 

RR° nit o 3124. — ^' a b«bI’C > t RJRfff (TDfltff W HRR 
WEET) ^rfypH^K, 1970 ( 19 70 Iff 5 ) qftsrnT 7$t 
^TRRT ( 3 ) % W? (*p) % 3TU RUT R%Rf qff 
TRtff ^ JR, RRff RUFK, RdRUTT, «fr 'ftotfo 

EWER % PW <TR Sit RR o $ o UtCTRTR, tFJW 

forpr, for rww, df fosfl qri fqr rff nffriRT % 

HRR fu^wi't' Eti ET (I4HI Piij/M TKcfl if I 

[RWT RRp 9-4(28)/72-5fr°tfro (I)] 


8.0,3125. — In exercise of the powers conferred 
by proviso to clause (a) of sub-sectldn (3) of section 
7 of the Banking Companies (Acquisition & Transfer 
of Undertaking) Act, 1970 (5 of 1970), the Central 
Govt, hereby appoints Shri M. Dandupanl, Director, 
Department of Banking, Ministry of Finance, New 
Delhi, as a member, of the First Board of Directors 
of Union Bank of India in place of Shri P. K. Kaul, 
with effect from 1st September, 1972. 

[No. F. 9-4 (2B) / 72-BOI (III) .] 


RUbtflo 3 1 25-— WRft (RRFRf Rlt trfa pfo 
WTUff) RfijfffffR, 1970 ( 1970W5) 4?T RTU 7 *tft RR- 

tnrr( 3 )^ (qr) % ttu rut qifWtff *ft sufffr 

JR, RTRT RUFTR, Rd^SKT «ff 'fto % WET 

IT sft RRo qu«MTp«r, PfoW, Jfol foTR, for RwUMR, 
qit 1 fffffVTF, 1972 ^ tv WE 

% SfW qff R?ur f^FfRI % t 

RTio 9—4(28)/ 72— 5fto I (HI)] 


S.0. 3128 In exercise of the powers conferred 

by proviso to clause (a) of sub-section (3) of Section 
7 of the Banking Companies (Aquisition & Transfer 
of Undertakings) Act, 1970 ( 5 of 1970), Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri D. M, Sukthankar, 
Director, Department' of Banking, Ministry of Finance, 
New Delhi os a member of the First Board of Directors 
of Bank of Maharashtra in place of Dr. R. M. Honavar, 
with effect from 1st September, 1072. 

[No. F. 0-4 (28) / 7 2-BOI(EV) .] 
RRo srto 3 126. — IwO wit (RgWfvr *F#ff 

wrur) srfsrftw, 1970 (1970 w 5 ) «fft 
ehtt 7 ^ RWTTT ( 3 ) % Wtr (qr) %■ h fqq, 
ITTT RTrT wfwft TT spftff "Fth JR, RTTff 
PTqffT, RRT3TU, ^To ?TTTo RRo % WlE 

qr Jsft f[o RRo ffftWTT ffeff fTflUT, fffU 

R^TTUR, fff f7EUfq?r lfRTURT, 1 9 7 2 § tv WE RJRT^ 
R«TR RT RRUT TTEft ^ I 

[WRT R3io 9— 4( 28)/ 7 2 — ®fV 0 Rto I (IV)] 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


fPxiT n — 


4422 


S.O. 312". — In exercise of the powers conferred 
by proviso to clause (a) of sub-section (3) of Section 
7 of the Banking Companies (AquiilHon and Transfer 
of Undertakings) Act, 1970 (5 of 1970), the Central 
Government hereby appoints Dr. D, N. Saxena, Joint 
Secretary, Department of Banking, Ministry of Finance, 
New Delhi, as a member of the First Board of Direc- 
tors of Bank of Baroda in place of Shri A. K, Dutt, 
with effect from 1st September, 1972. 

[No. F. 9-4(28) -72/BOI(V).] 

Rffo stflo 3127.twrftR^(T7Ti^TlR^ffR l k SRdrVI 
Rfafffffff, 1970 (1970 TT 5 ) RT7T 7 TTOI7T 
( 3) % fiFT (t) % ffTFJffl IRT 5T5FT Vlfwff ffff STTt^t 
«PT% ^rr, stp?T TOR, Td^TlTT, tTo %o TrT % BffTff IT 
¥To tfto TT^fo tpfipTT, ftjTI RpTr, 3T%ff fffKFT f^T 
R^TFRT, fff t Vf) 1 1972 % fa RTS 

% ffffff f^fTT Wti ^TRffBT PT’JW *TTTcfr | I 

[%WT ijq'Io 9-4( 28)/72-tfVo Rto l (V)] 

S.O. 3128. — In exercise of the powers conferred 
by proviso to clause (a) of sub-section (3) of Section 
7 of the Banking Companies (Aquisitlon and Transfer 
of Undertakings) Act, 1970 (B of 1970), the Central 
Government hereby apnolnts Shri N. Sethuraman. 
Director. Department of Banking, Ministry of Finance, 
New Delhi, as a member of the First Board Of Direc- 
tors of Dena Bank in place of Shri S. M. Kelkar, with 
effect from 1st September, 1972. 

[No. F. 9-4 (28) /72-BOI ( VI) .] 
D. N. GHOSH, Jt. Secy. 

^ 07To -sfTo 3 128 •mtf (RTiurf vr tcfa ■q’rr 
r^ dfi T) 1970 (1970 ^ 5 ) 7 1% 

" Vm r r r ( 3 ) % "ft fa) % TT^farTMrTH qn 

faffW TT} ^it, RT7R BTTTT, TTffrU, ffffo OTTo %TTT 7 

% ftr qr *-ft Tio ff^nr PoTur, ftrr 

tr^THT, fff fcF’ftRt 1 1972 %%ffl^%5pTR r 

fftf ffff BUTT PrpFT TT(ft $ I 

faWT iTTo Vi ( 28)/72-ffc tffo 1 (VI)} 

ttffo sffa 

R^Ff, RTTR TOffT I 


(Department of Banking) 

Neto Delhi, the 26th August 1972 

S.O. 8129. — In exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (1) of section 45 of the Reserve Bank 
of India Act, 1934 (No. 2 of 1934) the Central Govern- 
ment hereby directs that the Reserve Bank of India 
may appoint the Jammu and Kashmir Bank Limited, 
or anv subsidiary Bank as defined in the State Bank 
Of India (subsidiary banks) Act, 1959 (No. 38 of 1959) 
or anv body corporate specified in column 2 of the first 
schedule to the Banking companies (Acaulsition and 
transfer of undertakings) Act, 1970 (No. 9 of 1970) as 
its agent, in addition to the State Bank of India consti- 
tuted bv the State Bank of India Act 1955, at any 
place within the State of Jammu and Kashmir. 

[No. 3(ll)-B.O.III/72 | 


(*f?FT fffRTff) 

fff 26 tRRR, 1972 

<TR o if) o3 1 29 :-iTTCfte fTdff wfErfffrrff, 1934 
( 1934 ffff $RTl) 5TO 45 *1% TTOTTT(l) CTU RFT 
=fff Tfftff *PT% RTffffT Oll^ITT 

Ml I fT-RTTdtff fq; RUJt™? ffffTpftrfe fafoilS 
RTF RTTffrff ^ fa (ffRJffjfT #fr) wfaffiRR, 
1959 ( 1 959 ffff 38 fft) % folft nft (BBffT'T 

RW *-4 uV-a (BffFft ffff 8TVK tRdTR) 

ufWBlR, 1970 ( 1970 8ff 5 fft) 1% ifc 

TraR 2 % fafFE fdfffffff fffTffff Tt, ^ 

tTTT ^SffT far, 1955 ^ TRI fffeff RTOftff 

wfdRffff <ft, RUj RtT fUfffTr Tt^ff % FffTff «R 

VHdl RfvRffrf rpuW qiT IPfuTT ^ I 

[Ro 3 (Il)-^to gffo IH /7 2] 


New Delhi, the 29 th August 1972 

S.O. 8130.— In exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 53 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 
of 1949), the Central Government on the recommenda- 
tion of the Reserve Bank of India hereby declares 
that the provisions of Section 9 of the said Act shall 
not apply, till the 18th July, 1973 to the New Bank of 
India Limited, in respect of the agricultural land 
measuring 2200 Sq. yards held by it at Sultanwind 
Gate, Amritsar. 

[No. 14(5) -B.O.III/72.] 
K. YESURATNAM, Under Secy. 

fff fllwft, 29«*RR 19 72 

o gft o 313 0. — l^nffTHT, ^faf?PTTr, 1949 
(1949 qff 10»rt) ft HTH 53EmsniU#FP?f *FT fffftR 
TT% Mtff ETfffT, fTR# fa ftiHilPU)! IT 

jTTT RtffRT | Pfi wfafdW 8% OTTT9 % 

18 1973 fiT ^ fa RTffi 5^591 ^ 

Jj- ff^f ffff, Rift RT Bffffff RR£T Rruloto'-'y 

t'qi 2200 *(% ffffi ffff % # i 

fff f>pwft, 29 HffTff 19 72 
[Ro 14( 111/72] 

5UKWR, 

RRT RfRR, RKff RTRTT I 



Sic. 3(H)] 


THE GAZETTE OF JKDIA . OCT0BE* 21, ltYl/ASVINA 29 , 1M4 


4425 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance) 

New Delhi, the 3rd August 1972 

S.O. 3131. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (2) (b) of Section 80G of the Income-tai 
Act, 1901 (43 of 1001), the Central Government 

hereby notifies Shree Trimbakeshwar Temple, Trlm- 
bak, Distt. Naslk Is of historic and archeological 
importance and a place of public worship of renown 
throughout Maharashtra State and outside it'for the 
purposes of the said section. 

[No. 149jF. No. 170134|72-1T(AI).] 
B. MADHAVAN, Under Secy. 

(TRBT ifR 4YRT fllRPT) 

3RRT7, 1972 

^Ro Wlo3i31.-OTRTTRfaffi^, 1961 (1961TT 

43) ^ arm soufTTurm (2) (7) imTfTRfmf 
tt sTTfn - ■M'l ij^, r (iik 'ifY tptr, 

fruTT', fam rtM tY rti arm % wlMf % M 
jjrfar vftr q,TTT?#T r$?t tt Rk R$m^ tor 
rYt twit sfru-TrrfRT "tt trpt Rrfa^M 

Trfr $ 1 

^[*t° 149/TIo (to 17 0/34/7 2— RT o To 1)] 

#Y<> rtrtt , ' 'mx rM, 1 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance) 

Income-Tax 

New Delhi, the 28 th July 1972 

S.O. 3132. — In exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-clause (iii) of clause (44) of section 2 of the 
Income-tax Act, 1901 (43 of 1961), the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby authorises Shri Joginder Singh who is 
a Gazetted Officer of the Central Government, to 
exercise the powers of a Tax Recovery Officer under 
the said Act. 

2, This Notification which supersedes Notification 
No. 101 (F. No. 404/20/71-ITCC), dated 29th May, 3971 
shall come into force with immediate effect. 

[No 146/F. No. 404/235/72-ITCC.] 

(thftVYt frm Mtr) 

rtr-tt 

R$ fa?4Y, 28 iprrf 1972 

rnrotfio 3 1 3 2.— xrreriyy Rfafaur/ i 9 6 1" ( 1 9 « iVr 43) 
tV nitt 2%7 ,f T ( 44) % Tram (iii) tm ttt or fa-r ff 

TT TTYR %rfTd RTTfiT vtTTttt rY 

*Y, ift rttk % TnrrfTT Rfa-RnY % ?tt rIVMr 
% tt R’jfY RrfaTrfr lit Rfajiff ti ttYr xnfr % 
fo? TtHt^TcT TTffY $ | 


2. TfagTRI 71 RfR^ffT 70 161 (TTo Ro 
404/2 6/71-TTfl jV iff tff) RRY‘3 29 R§, 1971 Tt 
rM^R TTrft fi, rJTRT 5Tf cT ftffr I 

[tfo 146 /TTo Ro 404/2 35/7 2~*Iif of, olfYolfY o] 

New Delhi, the 16th August 1972 

5.0. 3133. — In exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-clause (iii) of clause (44) of section 2 of the 
Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby authorises Shri P. C. John who la a 
Gazetted Officer of the Central Government to exercise 
the powers of a Tax Recovery Officer under the said 
Act. 

2. This Notification shall come into force with Im- 
mediate effect. 

[No. 157/F. No. 404/246/72-ITCC.] 
A. K. NASTA, Under Secy, 

R? fawft, 16 RRTff, 1972 

IJRoITYo 3133.-RR-7RRfRMR, 1961 ( 196 ITT 43) 
tfraro 2 %t®t ( 44 ) (iii) im rrit vrfwff 

tt =rmr Jtr, foffa RTT1T ^ 'fYo (fto tpt tY, tY 
frwn % thimM srfarncY rrr RfafavR 
tmfa tt r^rY trfaTi^Y t?Y sifrprY tt rrYr tt*Y fat? 
tl TTfayiT TRffY ^ I 

2 . 75 ST^ $*fY I 

[tfo 157(TIo 404/245/ 72-*nfo#YeljYo^Ye] 

|| tro rtrtt, mx gfarr 1 

" * * v J j'3 

(Department of Economic Affairs) 

(Office °f the Controller of Capital Issues) 

New Delhi, the 5th August 1972 

5.0, 3134. — In this Office, Notification S.O. No. 579, 
dated the 31st January, 1972, for the words ‘the period 
between the 1st June, 1972 and 9th September, 1972 
(both days inclusive)’ the words ‘the period between 
the 1st July 1972 and 5th August, 1972 (both days 
inclusive)’ may be substituted. 

[No. F. 2(2)-CCI/72.] 
RAJ K. NIGAM, 

Addl, Controller of Capital Issues. 

(sTTfar Tpf flnrpr) 

(«£jft Mr M&t tt Twfan ) 

ftefY, 5 WIXfT, 1972 
wto 3134 .-W tbiM tff MtT 31 

TpMt 1972 RfalJTfiT RTo TTTo 579 it, "9^fY 
1972 rflX 9 fff l NT , 1972 (?YffY Mf R%T) 

% ifY TPlfa” SRTf % RTPT TT "91?^ 1972 

xtiX 3 TBTHT 1972 (TPff Mf % 4)7 ^Y RTffa” 

TT* 2(2)-?IY*Tfl'* RTfo/72] 
T17 * Mr, 

Rfaftw fft Mr I»iww » 


Tift! GAZ&TTl'OP INDIA OCTOBER 21, 1072/ASVINA 19, £894 


[IWM- 




OOLLECTOBATE OF CENTRAL EXCISE 
CALCUTTA AND ORISSA 

Central Excise 

Calcutta, the 18th February 1971 

S.O. *185. — In exercise of the powers conferred 
upon me under Section 2(a) of the Produce Cess Act, 
1906 (15 of 1966) read with Government of India, 
Ministry of Food, Agriculture, Community Develop- 
ment and Cooperation (Department of Agriculture) 


Notification No. G.S.It 884 dated 26th March, 1969 
and in supersession of the Collectorate Notification 
No. 2-CE/70/dated 9tH March, 1970, I, Shri N. Mookher- 
jee, Collector of Central Excise, Calcutta and Orissa, 
hereby authorise the Central Excise Officers specified 
in column 1 of the Table below to exercise within their 
respective. Jurisdiction the powers of “Collector”urider 
the Produce Cess Act, 1966 in regard to the functions 
under various sections of the said Act as enumerated 
in columns 2 and 3 of the said Table, 


Table 


Rank of Officer 

In regard to 

Relevant Section of the Produce Cess Act, 
1966 . 

I 

2 

3 

An officer not "below the rank of an Inspector 
of Central Excise. 

Power to Inspect Mills etc. 

I5(i)AT3(2>. 

9updt. ofCB 

Furnishing of the particulars 
Mills. 

about the 7 


Submission of monthly returns. 

.8 


Collection of Ces*. . 

. 9(0 & 9(a). 


Recovery oftnms due 

. 1 a(a)(b) & (c). 

Aaitt, Collr. of Central Excite. 

Adjudication of Offences etc. . 

. 16 


Competition of Offences. ’ 

. it 


[No. 1/71.] 

N, MOOK.HERJEB, 
CalUcfrr, 



Sac. 3(ii)J 


■THE .GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER &1, JSI.72/ASVINA JSt. tSfti 


4t&& 

18 'TTRltf', 1971 

trffo ff>o 3 1 3 5-lTTTcT (R^TT fr VIZ, ffffr, qRHTfaT fayrff "f^T K ^ f Ptt n WXim (fipT^Wnr) V*t tTfs^WT tfo 
ffr° VR fae 8 84, flTo 26-3-69 RTC TfST ITT^ tffafrw, 196 6 ( 11966 ^ 15) ^HRT 2(<p) % wrfta 

m *rftar<r’for srtfr^r ^ f? *t>t *prr$unm irfa^r v° 2-%° 30/70, fc° e-3-70 vr wfimcr <trt jtft, 

dftqTo ^Tr, <Tfffi£rf , %?tfhT 3 c?r *rft: irfterr, f^wi m°ft % Rmr i % fcirVtr wru v[w 

trftmftaff Jfit wqpft ff# srftnrrftST 3r ^mr st^tr fffafttnr, 1 966 w^Ytt trftrfim Pita HRrarf % wiflifa 

t*t ffrrifV % 2 trk 3 <r snrftar atpff % fn^er 3 r gm??rf wffcpff «rr surta uta % taq q^ant infanper irht 

& 1 

<rmV 


tti fa* 1 ft ^ tfl^rr 


frr*^3r 


^Trm rwt trfafrzm *> trt^j qrTT 


tTTTfa^TTt-, <sft T?TR % fwfff Wffa W fa^foR! ¥lfW 
farterer 

irrftaT,*NW^Tra^ faaff % *rr* *f fafarfarul sr^r ir* 

fr ««fa 3f 

mfPrcr fW % 5rcg?ftaRjr% than* Jf 
wjr % *nr$<»r % rwrst Sr 
*tffP TTftnff *P yr: STTfRT % ffnru # 


i 3 (i)*rtr 13(2) 

7 

8 

s( 1) wk 9(2) 
i2(<p)0ff) tfta: («t) 


*t$pt<p (Tgnjrf t?tr vrt trrfc % fo®f*r % *w«r 9 

tCRrtff vPRmT % tnamr Jf 


16 

is 


frfo l/7l] 

«pTo 

*prnpif 4 


OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 
RAJASTHAN 

ORDER 

Jaipur, the 31st Jyly 1972 

S.O. 3136.— In exercise .of powers delegated by the 
Central Government under sub-section (1) of section 
287 of the Income-tax Act, 1981 (43 of 1081) and 

under the authority given by the Central Board of 


Direct Taxes, Ministry of Finance, Department of 
Revenue & Insurance, Government of India, New 
Delhi, I, the undersigned, hereby publish the names 
and other particulars of the assessees who during the 
financial year 1971-72 have been ass eased on a total 
income of Rs. 1 lac or more (in cases of Individuals 
and Hindu Undivided Families) and on an Income of 
Rs. 10 lacs or more (in the cases of Firms, Association 
of Persons and Companies) , publication of which ha* 
been considered necessary in public interest. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; OCTOBER 21. 1972/ASVINA 29,.J8St4 


[Part H— 


4426 


NAMES OF INDIVIDUALS, AND HINDU UNDIVIDED FAMILIES ASSESSED OVER R». 1,00,00/- DURING 

THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1971-72. 


S. Name and complate address of the assessec Status Asstt. Income assessed Remarks; 

No. year 


1 Shri Minnualal Surana, Prop. Hazarlmal Milapchand, Gopal jl-ka- 



Rasta, Jaipur .... ..... 

. Indl. 

68-69 

11,31,010 

2 

Do. 

¥ ¥ 

69-70 

4.23,605 /- 

3 

Do. 

f 1 

67-68 

3 . 79 , 513 /- 

4 

Shri Bhagwunlal Modi, p/o_M/s. Jhalani Trading Co., Jaipur 

t » 

69-70 

3,13.081/- 

3 

Shri Hiriah Chand Badar, p/o Cosmopolitan Trading Co., J,B, Jai- 
pur 

ft 

68-69 

2.72,703/- 

6 

Do. 

¥¥ 

69-70 

i, 60,46a/- 

7 

Do. 

9t 

67-68 

4,49,190/- 

8 

Do. 


62-63 

2 , 34 , 083 /- 

9 

Do. 

It 

60-61 

1,28,66 3 /- 

10 

Shri Paiamdund Totuka Subhash Marg, C->cheme, Jaipur 

n 

70-71 

1,02,88a/- 

u 

Shri Sunil Kurur D jrla'jtujl, p/a M/s. Shantilal Durlabhji, Jaipur 

»» 

69-70 

1,05,560/- 

12 

Shri Bitaldts, p/o M/s. India Piets Mfg». Co., Industrial Estate, 
Jaipur 

*1 

68-69 

1,01,023 /- 

13 

Do. 


69-70 

1,37,063 /- 

14 

Shri Kushalchand, p/o M/s. K.D. Jhaveri, Nathmalka-Chowk, Jaipur 

n 

69-70 

1,71,296/- 

15 

Smr. S.K. Bader, p/o above 

»» 

69-70 

1,65,808/- 

16 

Shri Gulabchand p/o above ....... 

¥ ¥ 

69-70 

1,36,508/- 

17 

Shri Poonamchand Bader, Jaipur 

HUF 

69-70 

1.80,550/- 

13 

M/j. Dokuldas Hiridas, Lalkatla, Jaipur 

Indl. 

68-69 

1 , 4 , 540 /- 

19 

Shri Dulichand, p/o Heeraial Chhaganlal, J.B., Jaipur . . 

* ¥ 

67-68 

1,22,812/- 

20 

Shri Raj Roop Tank, p/o above 

») 

67-68 

1,13,66a 1- 

21 

Smat Kanchand Bai, p/o M/s. Cosmopolitan TradlngXo. 

r 

»» , 

67-68 

1,49,5000/- 

22 

Smt. Chakka Bai, p/o above 

M 

67-68 

1 , 56 , 996 /- 

23 

Shri Sagarraal Daga, p/o M/s. S agarmal Daga & Co., Jaipur 

It 

67-68 

2,17,050 /- 

34 

ShriWazir Mohd. p/o Jemeo Ghat Gate, Jaipur 

Indl. 

68-69 

1,36,402/- 

25 

Shri Zahoor Mohd. p/o above 

» » 

68-69 

1,36,703/- 

26 

Shri Bazir Mohd. P/o above 

» ¥ 

68-69 

1 , 35,536 /- 

27 

Shri Hamiddura through his representative Shri Nazir Ahmed, Fateh- 
pur 

ft 

69-70 

1,08,250/- 

28 

Shri Tayyabali, through his representative Shri Nazir Ahmed, Fateh- 
pur 


69-70 , 

1,08,250/- 

39 

Shri Vallabhadas Khandelwal, Ghaura Rasta, Jaipur 

»» 

69-70 

2,22,800/- 

30 

Shri U.tamehand Jain, 664, Adarsh Nagar, Jaipur 

If 

65-66 

1,02,200/- 

31 

Shri Bhawani Singh ,Raj Mahal, Jaipu 

» 1 

69-70 

1 , 84 , 954 /- 

32 

Shri PrlthviraJ, Raj Mahal, Jaipur 

II 

69-70 

2,07,488/- 

33 

Shri Brijmohan , p/o M/s. Ramsingh Garg, Ajmer 

» J 

67-68 

1,01,580 /- 

34 

Shri RamshinghGarg, p/o above . . . . 

»l 

67-68 

1,24,010/- 

35 

Smt. Ghewari Bai Mansinghka Bhilwara 

• 1 

67-68 

1,11,662/- 

3 S 

Shri Dalchand p/o Todji Paharmal Gangapur . 

n 

67-68 

1,00,257 /- 

37 

Shri Mangilal, p/o above 

11 

67-68 

1,00,275/- 

38 

Shri Jalsingh (deceased) through 1 /h Shri Ajai Singh Shahpura. 

it 

69-70 

2,12,370/- 

39 

Shri Bhim Singhji of Kota 

i> 

70-71 

2,49,800/- 

40 

Shri Madhusudan M. Pareekh, Ramganjmandi .... 

> > 

68-69 

1,06,550/- 

41 

Shri Bhim Singhji of Kota 

1 1 

68-69 

1, 62, ,500/- 

43 

Smt. Gulab Sundari Bai, Rapana, Kota 

M 

68-69 

1,21,050/- 

43 

Shrt Baluram P/o M/s. Mndira ....... 

HUF 

67-68 

1,02,460/- 

44 

Shri R.N. Bangur, Didwana 

Indl. 

71-72 

2,20,982/- 

45 

Du. 

,, 

67-68 

2 , 02 , 773 /- 

46 

Shri P.D. Bangur, Didwana 


71-72 

2,04,964/- 

47 

Do. 

> t 

67-68 

1,96,190/- 

48 

Parasram Kanaji, Sardarpura, Jodhpur ...... 

¥ t 

68-69 

1,60,280 /- 

49 

Do. 

i ¥ 

69-70 

1 , 55 , 380 /- 






Sec. 3(H)] 


TUP. GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVlNA 29, 1894 


4427 


NAME OF FIRMS, COMPANIES AND ASSOCIATION OF PERSONS ASSESSED OVER Rs. 10 , 00 , 000 /- DURING THE 

FINANCIAL YEAR I97W2. 


s. 

No. 

Name and complete address of the assesseea. 

Status 

Aaatt, 

year 

Income assessed 

Remarks 

1 

Mis. Rajasthan Small Industries Corporation, Jaipur 

. Co. 

70-71 

12 , 29,369 /- 


3 

Rajasthan State Warehousing Corporation, Jaipui . 

. . Co. 

70-71 

17 , 21 , 140 /- 


3 

M/s. Sambhar Salta Ltd., Jaipur 

. Co. 

69-70 

13,14.509/- 


4 

M/a. Gangananagar Sugar Mills, Jaipur 

. Co. 

69-70 

18 , 21 , 723 /- 


5 

Mahiraja Shri Umaid Mills Ltd,, Pali . ... 

Co. 

71-72 

36 , 32,0 rr/- 



[No. A-a/PubHca/72-73/3204] 
V. S. Dhnikachari, 
Commissioner of Income Tax 
Rajasthan, Jaipur 


VN4K 5TFJ4T Wrf"PT, TNI¥qT4, 

31 ^TTf, 1972 

'qT^PT 

rrRo sffo 3 136- — 4nwr SlF'JpFPT 1961 

( 1961 'Pi 43 ) otti 287 (i) % wfhr 

7K4K am R4T FrfwrPTf 4T RTF! 41771 §ir 
47491 477 Tt?, farptSETT, <,MKi ’A*! < 


fawnT, R777I RT4TTT, SKI 4^ 5Ttn P-WcIT 

Jr snrt^rrercf iprarnr sr % ftp 

cT4T WQ frr orl 4ft Sr4TftRT 41774 f^FFPI fJCrfFl 
1971-72 $ ^^(azrf^prf sftTjf^o^o^ RTRWf if) 1 
TTFJ 7£o 4T^R7t 41%4i’4>t 4FT3TFT IT 3f\T4>tff, ®TfW 7144 
Tpqr 4rprf47ft % if) io*rrar4°TTwJrsrfti4:4ff>mTT 
4T Pflrf 7 U| ft, f^TfT^T T4TTUFT 7ft4T %T if W M V4 +' W7J5J r 

44T ft I 



4428 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21. 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II — 




*0^0 ' TTCrpTT 


ft8rfcjr«pf fairffaTwpT(¥°) 


1 «ft *T3T5TFT ?TTj^fT, RTf^ ifPlWirt *PT TT*5rT,3PFJT I 

2 j / II ft j ) 


3 17 II II ) i 

4 sft (TTTrT TTT ^T>,TT^^if^*rr5rFftf pPT^o arq^T | „ 

s tf^wrarTT, ^nrg^i 


6 


I I 


I I 


7 ii n ii ii 

8 u ii ii ii 

9 i; ii iv ii 

10 «sfV Tri^r girmrf , *?V-s*pK r 1 „ 

1 1 «ft ^Tlf5T ffTK 5# H 3ft, TTpftTTTiffftf VTRtV $3? »T aft TTUTT, 

^ I 

12 «ft irrr '‘rrrft'rn:, if%r ^ ez *r if ^o, 

1 „ 


13 ii ii ii ,, 

14 <sfr 5 Tr?TT*T irrrftTn: ito ^ aprgr i „ 


is srVor»To %o STftw „ 

is *ft T/rr^yg, vrnfVyrT, ot t Iw „ 

17 wto tJ’To 3R^r 1 f^offoyo 

18 if TT Tt^TTTff <HfT °r>4'i , i, I «rfe 


19 «r> itttVtit, fttrsTra 1 st^tt, apnjr i 

20 sft TT^T zf^r, unf^TTT 

21 «ft Tfr tt ?r$ qrifVTn:, *r?f sjptjt 

2 2 ^irffT Sff =PT Tr£, HT*fteTC 

23 «ft ■rrrwr ■yrnT, irriftTrTir^rif frpirim «htthh» iFrqift, hitjt i 

24 «fr Tjfrr iftfciR '6Tifr?l < afa^T, W 7?, 

25 *ft 3T JT irnfV^TT ^TTfatT 

28 '-stV r iftr or T p 0? Wft4TT , TTTtW 

2 7 or \ ft i t it Tr srfcrfa % sft o^fk *t$jk , or^jr 

28 *ft *T5ft im «T^T, Oi^JT 

29 «ft s^^WTHT ^»5?rqT?T ^ffaj T1WT, ^ 

30 >srr^frO^?lfo, 664^RTlf OTT, ^PTjr 

31 sftwift fof, Tnnr^r sr^t 

3 2 ’ft T ''Tkrsr, Tf^riT^, apTJT 

33 «ft { 5T ftf T OTiftlTT, if 'TO Tfirf ipf , 5T3PTT 


68-69 

11,31,010 

69-70 

4,23,605 

67-68 

5,79,513 

69-70 

3,13,081 

68-69 

2,72,703 

69-70 

1,60,462 

67-68 

4,49,190 

62-63 

2,34,083 

60-61 

1,28,602 

70-71 

1,02,882 

60-70 

1, 05,860 

68-69 

1,01,023 

69-70 

1,37,063 

69-70 

1,71,296 

69-70 

1,65,808 

69-70 

1,36,508 

69-70 

1,80,550 

68-69 

1,44,540 

67-68 

1,22,812 

67-68 

1,13,662 

67-68 

1,49,500 

67-68 

1,56,996 

67-68 

2,17,050 

68-69 

1,38,402 

68-69 

1,36,703 

68-69 

1,35,536 

69-70 

1,08,250 

69-70 

1,08,250 

6 9-70 

2,22,800 

65-66 

1,02,200 

69-70 

1,84,954 

69-70 

2,07,488 

67-68 

1,01,580 




Am 


Sec. 3(il)] THE GAZETTE OP INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVlNA 29, 1«94 


oflfo 


irftirftr 

ftErfarr^ ftraTIVi trpr(v°) 

34 

*fV tnrffff W , '<TTrfkTT svflw 

1 1 

67-68 

1,24,010 

35 

affair ?rf ET^RjpFT, 

ft 

67-68 

1,11,662 

36 

srer ^ar, q-'nrjr 

ft 

67-68 

1,00,257 

37 

■sft ETiflsmT , *nPrY<l < 'JH Cltd 

; 1 

6 7-68 

1,00,257 

38 

«rV uprfa$ (^ir) inr * ft vm fi% et^tt 

1 > 

69-70 

2,12,370 

39 

«rV’ffWir?afV,Tt?T 

tt 

70-71 

2,49,800 

40 

tJJT 0 TPCta, TDpf 3TTT¥t 

1 7 

6 8-6 9 

1,06,550 

41 

yft tfftr To-f ^ftirteT 

J 1 

68-69 

1,62,500 

42 

‘stVeRt fprft ant, srmr, iftrT 

•7 

68-69 

1,21,050 

43 

«ft f rTTR 6Tff>Trr, if inf rPht m fjrw pr, trt 

17 

67-68 

1,02,400 

44 

sft fRo it *i 0 arr^T, tftmrrar 

7 7 

71-72 

2,20,982 

45 

)} II 

7 7 

67-68 

2,02,773 

46 

’sft'fto *Vo arfijr, 

7 7 

71-72 

2,04,964 

47 

II M 

7 7 

67-68 

1,96,190 

48 

«ft < TTBTTr*T irpiRft, Tcnr -pa, ^spjt 

■- 

68-69 

1,60,280 

49 

ii 11 

7 7 

69-70 

1,55,380 


6 if, 'Ti'fT TIPT flfa % ETR sft fawfa apf 1971-72 % tVcH 

o 

& 

© 

o 

o 

© 

o 

© 

^srfffuTrfaufforfit i 

lio o f*T9"TfV,rlY *PT nPT iT iTcTT 

5Tf%5TfcT 

ftsrfCDraR 

ftTOWV^TPT 

1 T <Tff Trarf *TR ?8T?T f^"VlT ^iTTTITTR , oPTJT 

TPpflr 

70-71 

12,29,369 

2 TT3r?«TPt af TR ifTTfipi ^I'CrRUR , RTI7 

1 7 

70-71 

17,21,140 

3 irt«n:ffTPif5ro,ur*T5T 

17 

69-70 

15,14,509 

4 4 $4 afimiR fRPR, Ufirp?: 

1 7 

69-70 

18,21,723 

5 wnr^r «ft ftr?*, faftr^Y, Tpfr 

7 7 

71-72 

56,32,066 


[R° it/ i/f?rfqrg/wff/ 72-73] 


ITffo 

TT^rfsrn, i 



443o 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part ll — 


CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECT TAX 
N&u Delhi, the 12th June, 1972 
Income tax 

S.O. 3137 — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (1) of Section 122 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 
(S3 of 1961) and of all other powers enabling it in that behalf and 
in supersession of all the previous Notifications in this regard, 
the Central Board of Direct Taxes heareby directs that the 
Appellate Assistant Commissioner of Income-tax of the ranges 
specified in column (2) of the Schedule below, shall perform 
their functions in respect of all persons and incomes assessed 
to income-tax or super-tax in the Income-tax Circles by the 
Income-tax Officer specified in the corresponding entry in column 
(3) thereof: — > 

SCHEDULE 


Si. 

Range 

Income-tax Circles & Income-tax 

No. 


Officers 

I 

2 

3 


I Appellate 1. Special Investigation Circle I 

Assistant Ahmedabad. 

Commissioner, 2. Special Investigation Circle II, 

Special Range, Ahmedabad. 

I, Ahmedabad. 3. Special Investigation Circle III, 

Ahmedabad. 

4. Special Investigation Circle IV, 

Ahmedabad. 

5. Special Investigation Circle, V, 

Ahmedabad. 

6. Special Investigation Circle VI, 

Ahmedabad. 

7. Special Investigation Circle VII, 
Alimedabad. 

Circle I-A (Speaiai), Ahmedabad. 
Circle I-B (Revenue), Ahmedabad. 
Circle I-C (Special), Ahmedabad. 
Circle I-D (Revenue), Ahmedabad. 
Circle I-E (Companies), 

Ahmedabad. 

Circle I-F (Special), Ahmedabad. 
Circle I-G (Revenue), Ahmedabad. 
Circle I-I (Revenue), Ahmedabad. 
Circle I-J (Special), Ahmedabad. 
Circle I-M (Revenue), Ahmedabad. 
Circle 1-0 (Companies), 

Ahmedabad. 

1. Circle II-A (Companies), 

Ahmedabad. 

Circle II-B (Companies), Ahmedabad 
Circle II-C (Special), Ahmedabad.: 
Circle II-D (Special), Ahmedabad. 
Circle iII-E (Special), Ahmedabad. 
Cirlce II-F (Revenue), Ahmedabad. 
Cirlc* II-G (Revenue), Ahmedabad. 
Circle :II-H (Revenue), Ahmedabad. 

2. Cirlce III-A (Companies), 
Ahmedabad. 

Cirlce III-B (Companies), 
Ahmedabad. 

Circle III-C (Special), Ahmedabad. 
Circle III-D (Revenue), 

Ahmedabad. 

Circle III-E (Revenue), 

Ahmedabad, 

1. Cirlce IV- A (Companies), 
Ahmedabad, 

Circle IV-B (Special), Ahmedabad. 
Circle IV-C (Revenue), Ahmedabad. 
Circle IV-D (Revenue), Ahmedabad 
Cirlce IV-E (Revenue), Ahmedabad, 
Circle IV-F (Revenue), Ahmedabad, 

2. Circle V-A (Special) Ahmedabad. 

2. Circle V-B (Revenue), Ahmedabad. 

3. Circle VI-D (Trust), Ahmedabad. 


2 Appellate 
Assistant 
Commissioner, 
Special Range 
II, Ahmedabad, 


3 Appellate 

Assistant 
Commissioner, 
Special 
Range III, 
Ahmedabad. 


4 Appellate 
Assistant 
Commissioner, 
Special Range 
Ahmedabad. 


SI. Range Income-tax Circles & Income-tax 
No. Officers 


1 2 


3 


S Appellate 1. All Income-tax Officers of Circle I. 

Assistant Circle II, Circle III — ,Circle IV' 

Commissioneer, Circle V and Circle VI, Ahmedabad 
AhtnedabadRange other than those mentioned against 
Ahmedabad Serial Nos. 2, 3 & 4 above. 


2. Mehsana Circle. 

3. Patna Circle 

4. Palanpur Circle. 


6 Appellate 
Assistant 
Commissioaer, 
‘A’ Range 
(H.Q) Baroda 


7 Apellate 
Assistant 
Commissioner, 
'B‘ Range 
(H.Q.) 

Baroda. 


8 Appellate 
Assistant 
Commissioner, 
Surat Range 
(H.Q.) 

Surat. 


1. Circle I, Baroda 

2. Godhra Circle. 

3. Pet lad Circle 

4. Broach Circle. 


1. Circle II, Baroda. 

2. Nadiad Circle 

3. An and Circle 

4. Bulsar Circle 


1. Surat Circle 

2. Navsari Cicle. 


9 


App< 

Assistant 
Commissioner, 

‘Jamnagar Range 
(HQ), 

Jamnagar. 


1. Jamnagar Circle 

2. Bhuj Circle 

3. Forhandar Circle. 


10 Appellate 
Assistant 
Commissioner, 
Bhavnagar 
Range (HQ, 
Bhavnagar 


1. Bhavnagar Circle 

2. Surendranagar Circle 

3. Amrell Circle 


xi Appellate 
Assistant 
Commissioner, 
Rajkot Range 



1. Rajkot Circle 

2. Morvi Circle. 

3. Junagadh Circle. 


All appeals in respect of any assessee pending immediately 
before the date of this Notification shall, from the date this 
Notification takes effect transferred to and dealt with by 
the Apellate Assistant Commissioner of the Range Who haa 
jurisdiction over that asseses as per this Notification. 

This Notification shall take effect from the 15th June, 1972 



Sec. 3(ii)] 


'THE Gazette of india ; October 21, 1972 /asVina 29, 1894 4451 


Explanatory Not « : 

The amendments have become necessary consequent on 
edignment of jurisdtion of Appellate Assistant Commissioner 
in Commissioner’s charge . The nomenclamre of following 
Ranges have been changed as mentioned below: — 


Existing nomenclature Changed nomenclature 


Appellate Assistant Commis- Special Rnge-I, Ahmedabad 
sioner, *A-Runge (HQ), 

Ahmedabad. 

Appellate Assistant) Commis- Special Range II, Ahmedabad 
sioner, B-Range (HQ) 

Ahmedabad 

Appellate Assistant Commis- Specil Range-Ill, Ahmedaba 
sioner, C-Range (HQ), 

Ahmedabad 

Appellate Assistant Commis- Specaal range IV, Ahmedabad 
sioner, D-Range, (HQ) 

Ahmedabad. 


Appellate Assistant Commis- 
sioner, E-Range (HQ) 
Ahmedabad. 


Ahmedabad Range. 


(The above Nrte does not form apart of the Notification 
1 t is intnded to be merely clariflcatory). 

[No. 109 (F. No. 26 1/4/72- IT J] 

P. K. S HARAN, 
Under Secy. 

nmr 

12 ' 5 R’, 1972 

^roirfo 3 i 37 -^rnm i 96 i(i 96 i fir 43)^ 

«fRT122 # ^UTfr(|)lTTT5nW5!lffi^ tpr «flT TF ftfim 
Shft VlfiKUff tpT SFftfi ^ gtT 

tfK W ^ if ^ ^ 5^, 

ifi-frh twst spr 4fi 'vi 1 <.1 ^/ir ^ f% rft 3 ^ 

% FfiTfT ( 2) if fhfdfh^d Xrlt %■ FgnpF VTm s Ti< OT^ftf 

(«rfa=r), (3) if fFPiFft srfafe if 

*rmrr jth *rmrr trfwr Sf wm m vfa- 

fcsrffFT tuft »trf«RFff tfk iiFft % arr^: if srtf 

W h mH n>Xtf . — 






5 TPTTT Wi 4 «n<. 



wfsrrrft 

( 1 ) 

(2) 

( 3 ) 

1 ygm «rr^ 

1. faifa ^tPr- 1, 



^fTT^ 


fdsfT ^ 5 T, 1 

2. fafta ii, 



?TgtKRK 1 


(0 (2) (3) 

3. iii, 

4. faita *n#T<JI HfovT iV, 

sffgHfiRR | 

5. M 1 ? WF^TJT V, 

6- ffiviR eiPtivl Vj, 

WgtKTOR I 

7 . fat/fa ?r^ur vii, 
wgtKwra 1 


2 ugPTF 

ftrrf’T % ii, 
wgRnwnr 1 


Hl+vi 1 — T (f^pfftr), WfiRhF- 

ans 1 

rfftfvt 1 — UT ( li'Jltrd ) i 

wgPRTsrrr 1 

frftpST 1 — f (fwr, tigpreT- 
afTC I 

IflVl 1— ' <T ( f i-Hid ) , yfiR4l- 
*TK I 

1 — *(*rPFft),*TgW- 

4TC I 

^for 1 — ^ (fq^ffR- ) , wf'FrT 

*FT 7 1 

HfW 1 — ^ (TfJTFT) 

I 

nfer 1 — w 

1 — (ftpif^ ) , 

MgRfi TO F; 1 

sfovT 1— — fv (ttwft), 

'RffFtwr 1 

eif*t"N I — W ) , 

trgrwrfi 1 


3 Vfdfitl 

(wnfm - ), 

^JT iii, 

I 


1. Ffaw ii-t 

ji-^W (jfFqtfT), 

sr£*rcr*rTS i 

Ff%H ii- *r (f%vhr) , 

WgRfiUiTfi I 

ii-^ (Patfh ), 

FfeH ii- s (f^ftr), 


SfiPfiToH'S 1 



[Past ll — 


4432 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVlNA 29, 1894 

(0 ( 2 ) ( 3 ) (l) (2) (3) 


of+Vf ii' — E ( ) , 
SfifBTRTE I 

Ef®PE ij— ® (TESTPt), 

S^TEERE? I 

eRe jj— E (TREE), 
WjpmTT i 

2. El W («PmY) ; 

EfETETE | 

El%E Hi-’T ) , 

E^Earrarrs- i 

eRrt iii- e ( fVwE ) , 

eRfe iii — ( ttsite), 
JIPWIR I 
ePpe iii — : f 

EgEsTWr i 

4 E^EEP i. eRpe jV-E (teeR), 

*PflE), HgESWTE | 

Rtfr^Eiv, ePpe iV-^r (fkvr ) 

w$W'*k i uprc i 

B-fwiI-*r (tree), 

^Tr«rrr 

eRe [V —ir (trft), 
EgrErrarc i 

eRe iv-r (ttee), 

EgEWPi i 

eRe iv-E (eeet), 

E$ER7T I 

2. eRe V-*P (fqr^PT ) , 

I 

2. eRe v - e (tto), 

EgBERTE I 

3 . eRe vi-E (ret), 

StEEEEnT I 

5 BgTB*P STFJW 1. 3ET TR Eo 2 , 3 Ek 

(srfRr), 4 %eter eRbtY fEE 

k^ettstte ¥ e i eRe j, eRe ii, eRe, 

EfESTETT I iii, Ef%E iv, eRe V Ek 

bRe Vi E^ETTETE % 
E'fft J|1W( EfsRTtt I 

2. EgEMI eRe I 

3. ERE eRe I 

4. EE-HET bRe 


6. b^tee srTfw i. bRe i, T*kr i 

(fpflrr), 2 . bYbtt bRe i 

V?b (ijsetebR 

arffaT i 

7 B?TBE BEJET (*rfttf), 1- BRw ii, eVUt I 

V R (tjwtee), 2. eRet bRe I 

RkT I 3. WREE bRe I 

4. ^BBT eReT I 

8 E^EEP BT TO (BBYe) 1. gTT bRe I 

^Tcf R (■tjsEHE), 2. EEET'O bRe I 

^E I 

9 BfPEPBPJIB (srftE), 1. ETEEER eRe ; 

BIBBBtR (*JWRW), 2. *£* bRte I 
3TIEEET I 3. EkEET bRe I 

10 EfTEE BTBET (spftE), 1 . ETTEET bRe I 

beret R (jjbbteb), 2 . ^RetteRei 

ETE E E < I 3. EERY eRb I 

1 1 E$TBE STEJTE (sHR), 1- ’(mV bRe I 

Trsppfc R (jj®eeb) 2. Bkfr eRe i 

TTEEk I 3. ^ETET bRe I 


rE EfEgEET tit ElRf % £R yf Mt fRfRff ifr 

ETBB Bf*BB E*ft SPfWf, W EfBgEBT % EERY gY# E>t 
ErRr % EE E$PFF BEJEE (^Tfkr) E>, fEEER, 1[E 
^■Pu^E'HT 5PJETE EE fEEffkft TT ftrEElfTET *RE* 
fVE Et * ETkff, Et EE% EPR# ^TT I 

Ef srfy^EEl' 15^E, 1972 ?T EWRY 1 

[#0 iO,j(Eo?ro 26 1 / 4 / 72-Erf fr^] 

<fto ^To SHE, 

EET EpEE, EE^Ye 5TW?E *pt Etf I 


Sic. 3(H)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER. 21, 1972/ASVlNA 2#, 1894 


4433 


Mitt Delhi, the i(sih June, 1972 


(1) (2) 


(3) 


S. O. 3138 — In exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (1) of Section 122 of the Tneome-tax Act, igfi j 
(43 of 1961) and of all other powers enabling it in that behalf 
and in supersession of all previous Notifications in this regard, 
the Central Board of Direct Taxes, hereby directs that the 
Appellate Assistant Commissioners ol Income-tax of the 
Ranges specified in column 2 of the Schedule below shall 
perform their functions in respect of all persons and incomes 
assessed to Income-Tax Super Tax in the Income-tax Circles 
Wards and Districts, specified in the cortessponding entry in, 
column 3 thereof : — 


Schedule 

SI. 

Range 

Income-tax Ward / Cir. 

No. 

(propesed) 

& Districts. 

I 

2 

3 


I Special Range- X, 
Bomhay 


Companies Circle 1 (1), 1(2), 
1(3) & 1(4) ITOs Charges 

only. 


2 Special Range-II , 
Bombay 


1. Companies Circle- 1 except 
l(l), 1(2), 1(3) and IU) 

2. 1st I.T.O., of B.R.C. 


3 Special Range- III, 
Bombay 


1. A 1st, 2nd, 3rd, & 8th ITOs 
of A-IV Ward. 

2. I.T.Os of Film Circle. 


4 A— Range, Bombay , 1. Bombay Circle 

2. N.R.R.C. 

3. Salaries Branch II 

4. Foreign Section . 

5. ItOs of S.I.B.I- to V. 

6. Salaries Branch-I. 

7. B.R.C. except 1st IT. O. 

8. A-IV Ward except, ist 

2nd 3rd, and 8th I.T.Os 
Charges. 

5 Special Range- TV, Companies Circle-IV (r) , JV(2>, 

Bombay IV(3), IV(4), IV( 5 ), IV (6) & 

IV (7) I.T.Os Charges 
only. 


6 Special Range- V, 1. Companies Circle IV except 

Bombay. ist to 7th I.T.Os Charges. 

2. ITOs of Companies Circle- V 

3, ist, 2nd, & 3rd ITOs of 
B-I Ward. 


7 Special Range — VI, r. ist, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, & 5th 

Bombay ITOs of Market Ward. 

2. ist, 2nd 3rd, & 4th ITOs of 
C-III Ward. 

3. rat, 2nd, 3rd & 4th ITOs 
of B-II Ward. 

4. ist, 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 5th 
ITOs of A-II Ward. 

8 B-Range, Bombay, 1. Evacuee Circle — II. 

2. B-IWard, except ist to 
3rd ITOs Charges. 

3. Market Ward except ist 
to 5th ITOs Charges. 

4. A-II Ward except ist to 
5th ITOs Charges. 

5. B-II Ward except ist to 
4th ITOs Charges. 

6. C-III Ward except ist 
to 4th ITOs Charges. 


9 Special Range-VII, Companies Circle-II (1), 11(2) 
Bombay. II( 3 ), 11(4) & II(s)ITOs 

Charges only. 


10 Special Range-VIII,r. Companies Circle-II except 
Bombay. ist to 5th ITOs Charges. 

2. ist, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th & 
6th ITOs Charges of A- 1 
Ward. 

3. ist , 3rd, 5th & 8th ITOs 
charges of C-I Ward, Bombay 


11 Special Range-IX, 1. ist, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 
Bombay 6th, 7th and 8th ITOs 
Charges of C-II Ward. 

2. ist, 2nd, 3rd, 4th & 5th 
ITOs Charges of A-III 
Ward. 


12 Special Range-X , 1. X-Ward. 

Bombay 2. ist, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 6th and 
10th ITOs Charges of A-V 
Ward. 

13 C-Range, Bombay , 1. Evacuee Circle-I. 

2. A-I Ward except ist to 
6 th ITOs Charges 

3. C-I Word except ist, 3rd 
5th, & 8 th ITOs. Charges. 

4. C-II Wards except ist to, 
8th ITOs Charges, 

5. A-III Ward except ist 
to jth ITOs Charges. 

6. A-V Ward except 1st, to 
2nd, 3rd, 4th, 6th and 
10th IT Os Charges. 


14 Special Range-XI , I. ist, 2nd, 3rd, & 4th, 
Bombay 9th ITOs Charges of B.S.D. 

(West). 

2. ist, 2nd, 8th and gth 

ITOs Charges of G-A 

Ward. 


15 Special Range- XII, 1, ist, 2nd, 3rd, 6th and loth 
Bombay ITOs Charges of B.S.D. 

(East.) 

2. ist, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, jth. 
6th, 7th, 8th and 9th ITOs 
Charges of E-Ward. 


16 Special Range-XIV , 1. Companies Circle-Ill except 
Bombay ist to 7th ITOs Charges. 

2. ist, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 
6th 16th and 17th ITOs 
Charges cfB-III Waid. 


17 Special Range- XIII , Companies Circle-Ill (1) 111(2) 
Bombay 111(3), IIE4), 111(5), 111(6 ), 

& III(7) ITOs Charges 
only. 


18 D-Range, Bombay . L-III Ward except iBt, 2nd, 

3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 16th 
and 17th ITOs Charges. 


19 Special Range- XV, 1. I.T.Os of Hindi Circle. 
Bombay 2. ist, 2nd and 3rd ITOs 

of G-Ward. 


20 Special Range-VXI, 1. ist, 2nd, & 3rd, ITOs of 
Bombay C-II Ward. 

2. ist, 2nd, 3rd, 17th, 18th 
19th and 20th ITOs of 
D-I Ward . 



4434 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA: OCTOBER 21, L972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II — 


I 2 3 


3. ist, 2nd, 9th, 14th and 
15th ITOs Charges of 
C-V Ward. 

4. 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th 
and 10th ITO Charges of 
C-IV Ward. 

21, E- Range, Bombay. 1. E-Ward except ist to 9th 

ITOs Charges. 

2. G-Ward except 1st to 3rd 
ITOs Charges. 

3. GA-Ward except ibt, 
2nd, 8th and 9th ITOs 
Charges. 

4. B.S.D. (West) except 1st, 
2nd, 3rd, 4th & 9th ITOs 
Charges. 

5. B.S.D. (East) except ist, 
2nd, 3rd, 6th and 10th 

ITOs “ Charges. 

22. F-Range, Bombay. 1. D-I Ward except ist, 2nd, 

3rd, 17th, iBth, 19th and 
20th ITOs Charges. 

2. D-II Ward except ist, 
2nd and 3rd 1 ITOs Charges. 

3. C-IV Ward except ist, 
2nd, 3rd, 4th 5th and 
10th ITOs Charges . 

4. C-V Ward except ist, 
2nd, 9th 14th and 15th 
ITOs Charges. 


Where an income-tax circle. Ward or District or part 
thereof Stands transferred by this Notification from one Range 
to another Range, appeals arising out of assessments made in 
that Income-tax Circle, Ward or District or part thereof an 
pending immediately before the date of this Notification before 
the Appellate Assistant Commissioner of Range from whom 
that Wiri or District or part thereof is 

transferred shall from the date this Notification shall take 
effect be transferred to and dealth with by the Appellate 
Assistant Commissioner of the Range to whom the said Circle, 
Ward or District or part there of Is transferred. 

Tris Notification shall take effect from 1-7-1972. 

[No. 123 (F. No'261 /9/72-ITJ] 

Explanatory Note. 

This notification has become necessary consequent 
on realignment of jurisdiction of A.A.Cs. in commis- 
sioner’s charge and transfer of one post of A.A.C, from 
Ahmedabad to Bombay City Charges. 

(The above note does not form a part of Notification 
but is intended to be clarlflcatory). 

Ef 26 'SJE, 1972 


ffoff ii STR 4 R m % faif fforfffa E*ft atrftcFff 

5 tVr ET'fE’fi 41 ^. if *l*l 0 fieEt^ET mi eid : — 

wt eo 3 fa (Mrmft'd) 

SHEER ET$ j 3 frfWRT 
sfR fait 

1 2 

3 

1. jffofa ^fa — I, jr«r$ 

aiEH WT^o <£fo sffo 
% JIERnffa EREtfr 

Effor 1(1), 1(2), 
1(3) *f|r 1(4) 1 

2. fatta ifa-II; Ewrf 

1. 1 (1), 1(2), 1(3) 
srfa 1(4) fo 

ETPFff EffoT-I 1 

2 . STRo Efo 4 H 

1 tll^ oT^o | 

3. [Mr ifa-III, *«ri[ 1 

1. «F-lV { ETi 1, 2, 

3 , * 0 J 8 STT^o tff° 
sffo 1 

2 . facH Effor % 

%fto 

4. fa-^sr, 

1 . 5 FE< Effor 1 


2. IJEo WRo 5fRo 

tfU I 

3. trFTWTNT— II 

4. faffa TPJEfiT I 

5. FTfo tfrfo 

V Wlfo 2fo nfto I 

6 - WFSTT— I 

7- 1 $TT^° Wto 
vslir, < VRo I 
8. 5IT^t> £fo 5ft 0 % 

IDTRTtffT 1, 2, 3, 

8 tfit 

*P-IV 1 


t^To «fT o 3138. — 5TFT4R yfyfd^M, 1961 
( 196 1 sfiT 43) qft ERT 122 TTERT (l) IRT 
STffW TrfsR PTf EW faftfT SRFt TRft 

tTpEFTt TT ^*0*1 'bttl gif ^0 < if 

Efaffatr 4R^f gif, seest wk 
fir%¥T IrfT | fa 2 F 

EgHFft M iM'fR sfFJ'fd' ( *1*0*1 ) , tiEVH 3 

it 4ft ?mpflr ufafe if fafdfa*^ wnm Effo r t , *nrf tfh: 


5 . (V si T ^ST-IV, H«l£ *ll|o jffo wto % 

sr^KitOd wpft Effor 
-IV ( 1 ), IV ( 2 ), 
IV ( 3 ) , IV ( 4 ) , IV 
(5) IV(6) tfkiv 
(7) 1 



Sec. 3 (ii)] 


The gazette of india ; October 21, i 9 ? 2 /asvina 29 , 1894 


4435 


1 


3 


1 


2 


3 


6. faffa T4-V 


7. fauTT T5T~VI, mm 


8 . ^-^ 5 T, TRf 


9. fasfa ^5r-VlI, 


€f 0 ifto % 
snrnrsfta- 1 § 7 tfr 
® 1 WT ^TPqift *rf%ST 

IV 1 

2 . 'H'-IH) Efw-V % 
?rr^o tffo sfro 1 

3. m-rni % 1, 2, 3 
?rrfo fro %fTo 1 

4. T— II *T# % 1, 2, 

3 , 4 sflT 5 5 TTfo 
ito !fto | 

I • 5 T 3 TTT *(1 s T % 1 , 

2, 3, 4 *flr 5 ?rrf 0 

c£t° ffto I 

2 . 4 -IIl 4 Ti% 1 , 2 , 
3 srtr 4 «nto jIo 
«fto | 

3. nr-II mi % 1, 2, 

3 v"l < 4 Vl£o 3 to 

*fr° 1 

4. t— II mi % 1, 2, 

3 4 sfk 5 snfo 

3 Tt° sfto | 

1. ftwwcf Efer-H 

2 . ffto %■ 

snrnrfTr 1 t 3 

isf— 1 «( i-l I 

3. Vl^o cfto fffo % 

snrTTrsfTr i ft 5 

fft vsl s ti < ail'ail <, 4l^ I 

4 - fTT^o 0 to % 

smPTtf^T 1 ft 5 Tt 

w : — IIqr$ 1 

5 . fTT^o 0 to Sfto % 

jnrnTtfto 1 % 4 
«!?*< iy — II ?Ti 1 

6. o % 

srwnrsfR 1 % 4 qft 
*r — III 1 

s?rfo <ft o ?fto ftr 

STWTTTEfTT ’TPFTt Ef%W 

—II (l), H( 2 ), 

11 ( 3 ), 11 ( 4 ) 

II ( 5 ) I 


1 0. fftftqr t ^r-V III 


1 1 . ffttfT T 5 T~IX | 


12 . fftfrsrftftr-X sf«r? I 


1 3 . jt-t'st, m-rf l 


1 4 - ^ 5 f-XI 


1. Vl^ 0 3?to tfto % 

smcnft^ 1 ft s ^rt 
TjUFTT T^-RT life- 

II I 

2 . 5fr-i nmf % snfo 
cfto % srmTnftT 1, 
2, 3, 4, 5 «ftc 6 1 

3. ir-qr#, % irrf c 

o ftr 0 £ snOTTrafr 

1, 3, 5 (flrt 8 1 

1 . tt-II qrf £ mrf 0 
£r 0 ifr o ^ smirrtfto 
1,2,3,4,5,6,714^1: 8 1 

2. t— III mi t qr^o 

£ ST'fTRTgt^ 

1, 2 , 3, 4 <rt(5 I 

1. X-JTfi I 

3. T-V mi £ *TT^o 

^ o 5!Tt 0 % T'qTTT5fl3T 

1,2, 3, 4, 6 tfir 10 1 

1 . frrafTfcT Ef^-I 

2. srrf 0 €\ 0 tfto $ 
srmnfto u e ft 

^7— J TTli I 

35Tp£o jfo ?fto !p 

snrmEfti- 1,3,5 ’jfk s 

l$t¥7fTT Tr— I I 

4 . ?rrf 0 zt 0 jffo $ 
snTRTrftiT # s ^ BrtTspr 
b— II mi 1 

5 . i?T^ c ffV o 44^0 ^ 

1 ^ 5 BjtT 

mx ^r— III ^r# 1 

6. STT^o ^to nffo % 
JWRTlffr 1, 2, 3, 4 
6 ffk 10 Jffr BfaFFr, 
^-V Wr¥ I 

I-?!** TfT° «to (Tfrm) 

% ?TT^o rfVo ?fto % 
SRirrefa ^0 it^-o 
^• o 

2. 0fT-^T# %• 3!to 

ffto ^ sr^rrcrsfTr 1 
2, 8 ffk 9 1 


P\*T TI- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4436 

1 2 3 


15, fmfcr im-XII mmf 1. iT° iV° (gi) 

% mfo zfo m° % 

jrmrrcfto i, 2, 3, 6 

'sfk 101 

2. yo-mf %mf°ito 
?fto % JHTPTsftE' 1 , 

2, 3, 4 ; 5, 6, 7 , 8, 
?fl7 9 I 

ig. fmrr XIV mmf . 1. mfo eV® m° % 

T«TTTT^E 1 E 7 mt 

ynmft 

2. m-IIImi % mfo 

ito m° ^ sraiTTOto i, 

2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 16 

nV 17 I 

1 7 . fmTT ? 3 T-XIV T^f %m? mfo it a 5 f>o % 

STRITTEf^T TPFlV Ffer 

-HI (1), HI (2), 

III( 3 ) .UK*), HI 

(4),III(5),III(6) 

*V HI (?) ' 

jg, mmf mfoiVo mo % sTtrirr- 

sfVr 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 
6 , 1 6 sftr 1 7 tt rfty- 
vx sr — III mi i] 

19. fmta fy-XV . 1. Efer % mf° 

fto mo 1 

2. El-mf % 1, 2 ?TtT 

3 mf ° Eto mo 1 

20. faftT T 3 T--XIV myf . 1 . T — II mi T 1,2, 

(ft? 3 mf° e!o sft o 1 

2. sr- 1 m# % 1, 2, 

3, 17, 18 , 19 5rV 

20 mfo mo m 0 1 

3. O'-Vmimmfoito 
mo %■ wnwt<T i, 
2 , 9 , 1 4 mV 1 5 I 

4. ■t— IV mi % mfo 
jT° m° % Tmrrmr 
1, 2, 3, 4, 5 sfV 


1 2 3 

1. mfo ft® 4fto % 
mrrcrcftmr i ^ 9 mt 
wtirm; yo- yri 1 

2. mfo 3V0 ^>0 % 
srmrnfrr 1 rr 3 m 

EtTm B5— 4T« 1 

3. mfo fto yfto % 

srmmsfm 1,2, 8 

srk 9 it Efry me 

® 41— my 1 

4. mfo fto m° % 
mnmmT 1, 2, 3, 

4 srft 9 *Pt Eity m: 

ftomroiro (qfirmr) 1 

5. mfo 3^0 ?fto % 
TmrnrlFr 1, 2, 3, 
6 %frr 10fl «!«*!.< 
m° mr° fro (yr) 1 

22, ^ -f m-msrf 1. mfo fr<> *fto % 

srmcrKftr 1, 2, 3, 
17, 18, 19 yflr 20 
mr m r -r-I mi 1 

2. mfo ^y 0 ?rfo % 
miRraVr 1, 2 

3 TT 1 

3. mfo flo mfo $ 
miKnltT 1, 2, 3, 
4, 5, yfk 10 m 
m? m; t— IV mi 1 

4. mfo ito ?fro % 
mrrcnftm 1, 2, 9 
1 4 ?rk i 5 mt EJ'rym: 

4 — VTlf 


mgr qftr^m sm mf urm rrfom, mi m 
fmrr m' Tflm mrf m rryr t y i %%x fy £ myffy 
ft *rm i\ Tgr mm yfer, mi m fm% m . 
fmm mT i frir »rrr fmikiT qf^urm »if mfiof 
m sir # rrirW i ilm 74 %, fmr% 

pm irfw, mi 4 r fim m ^rrm mf unr mcTff4 
ett fmrrm t, mrimr m^^T (m'Er) % mmn 1 m^mr 


21 . 


10 1 



4437 


Sec. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVlKA 29, 1894 


«fT, w % srorsft 4ft tnrte # qq % 

fWFt 344" ^T# 4T fwr TT TTEFT 4ft£ BT9 H'dP.d 

47T fcfT IPTT ft, EfFTT ^qT^J^T (?FftlT) 9ft 9^ 

3ft qpFfft', 5ft T9% Sr frmTKt 9^9T I 

Tf qfsr^w 1-7-1972 ft snnqt gt*fV 1 

[#0 123/9110 90 2 6 1 / 9 / 7 2— !irf 0 zto t#o] 


New Delhi , the 301/1, June, 1972 


S. O- 3139. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (x) of section 122 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 
of 1961) and of all other powers enabling it in that behalf and 
in supersession of all previous notifications in this icgaid. the 
Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby directs that ihc Appcllate 
Assistant Commissioners of Income-lax of the Ranes specified 
in column 2 of the schedule below shall perform their functior _ 
in respect of all persons and incomes assessed to Income-tax 
or Super-tax in the Income-tax Circles, Wards and Districts 
specified in the corresponding entry in column 3 thereof: — 


SI. 

Ranges 

Income-tax.Circles, Wards 

No. 


and Districts 

I 

2 

3 

Special 

Range , 

t. A-Ward, Circlc-I, Lucknow, 

Lucknow. 

2. B-Ward, Circle-I, Lucknow. 


3. C-Ward, Circle-I, Lucknow. 

4. A-Ward, Circlc-IIjLucknow. 
(which existed upto 31-5- 
1968 and from 1-8-68 to 
1-6-69 and thereafter ). 

5. Company Circle, Lucknow. 

6. Special Circle, Lucknow. 

2 A-Rango, Lucknow 1. Circle- I, Lucknow exclu- 
ding 

(i) A-Ward, Circle- 1, Lucknow. 

(li) B-Ward, Circlc-I, 
Lucknow. 

(iii) C-Ward, Circle-I, Lucknow. 

(iv) F-Ward, Circle-I 
Lucknow. 

2. Salary Circle, Lucknow. 

3. Circle-II, Lucknow (which 
existed upto 31-5-68 and 
from I-8-6S to 1-6-69 and 
thereafter) excluding A- 
Ward. 

F-Ward, Circle-T f Lucknow. 
Hardoi. 

Bahraich. 1 
Sitapur. 

Lakhimpur Kheri. 

Basti. 

Gonda. 


12 3 


& Varanasi 

Range, 

1. 

Varanasi. 

Varanasi. 


2. 

Special Circle, Varanasi. 



3- 

Special Survey Circle, 




Varanasi. 



4. 

Project Circle, Varanasi. 



5- 

Jaunpur. 



6. 

Azamgarh. 



7. 

Ballia. 



8. 

Gorakhpur. 

Allahabad 

Range, 

1. 

Allahabad. 

Allahabad. 

2. 

Mirzapur, 



3- 

Faizabad. 



4- 

Salary Circle, Allahabad. 

6 A-Range, 

Bareilly. , 

T. 

A-Ward, Bareilly. 



2. 

B-Ward, Bareilly. 



3. 

Haldwani. 



4- 

Shahjahanpur. 



5. 

Nuinital. 


r 3 • Ha tge, Bareilly. . r. Bareilly Circle excluding: — 

(i) A-Ward, Bareilly. 



(ii) L-Ward, Bareilly, 

\ 

2. 

Pilibhit, 



3- 

Budaun. 



4- 

Almora. 


Special Moradabad. 

I. 

A-Ward, 

Moradabad. 


2 

B-Ward, 

Moradabad. 


3- 

A-Ward, 

Najibabad. 


4. 

A-Ward, 

Bulandshahr. 

Moradabad Range, 

Moradabad. 

I. 

Moradabad Circle cxclud 
ing : — 


(i) A-Ward, Moradabad, 

(li) B-Ward Moradabad. 

2. Najibabad Circle, exclud- 
ing:— 

A-Ward, Ni jib abaci, 

3. Chandausi. 

4. Rampur. 

5. Bulandshahr Circle exclde- 
ing:— 

A-Ward, j, Bulandshahr. 

6. Kashipur. 


Where an Income-tax Circle, Ward or District o r 
part thereof stands transferred by this notification from one 
range to another range, appeals arising out of assessment 
made in that Income-tax Circle, Ward or District or part 
thereof and pending immediately before the date of this Noti- 
fication before the Appellate Assistant Commissioner of the 


3 B-Range, Lucknow. 1. 

3. 

4- 

5. 

6 . 



4438 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 , I 972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[Part If— 


range from whom Chat Income-tax Circle, Ward or District or 
part thereof is transferred Bhall, from the date this notification 
takes effect be transferred to and dealt with by the Appellate 
Assistant Commissioner of the range to whom the said circle 5 
ward or district or part thereof is transferred. 

This notification shall take effect from 15-7-72. 

EXPLANATORY NOTE : 

Tho amendments nave become necessary with a view to 
rationalising the Jurisdiction of A. A.Cs and their work lead 
distribution. 

[No, 129(261/1/72- ITJ)] 


feetft 30 1972 

tTTTo $flo 3139 . — trmrt SifsrffETff, 1961 
( 1961 qff 43 ) 9 TTT 122 3 W 7 T ( l) 5 KT STTrT 

tflfacRTt 37 T fafarl > 3 % 4 dfa 4 Tvf[ 7 T*ft 5 T< 7 T 

irrfwrf 4T srtffa qefa- gir ■hV w Jr wft *rftr- 

TT ’fffafefT qRff gY feYf 5 E< 1 «T TT E^STTT 

fa^trr Yrrr | fa ?ft% qft qrjg^ft % 2 ir fafafw 

mxm WTW*: wetw (wffa), 3 *fa EcEPff 3 ir qY 
tfcWpft srfafe Jr fafalw wn Efwf, Wt «fk fasff 
t <r ivm 4 T *rfim % fair ffarffar *nft ®rfwif tffa 
wfaf Jfc qfa if tpfa tfT tfTHff ; — 


1 2 3 

5- th-ht) TTfarf, W3T- 
ffS I 

6. fa#? ftfer, hu- 

trs; 1 

2. q? — .#*, wr® 1. irfan- 1, ••EaT?;, 

fa^fafaRT #T WTSfTT ; — 

(i) qr-ffis, Effar- , 

-WJ> I 

(ii) gr-qre, Efer-I, 

qram; 1 

(iii) nfar- 
I, 1 

(iv) qr-mi, ^rfawT- 

J, HtJ 435 I 

2. ffcET Hfa?T, I 

3. sp-sni #fafT fffavT 

-II, eEffff 3 i I ( 3 ft 

31-5-68 cEF Sffa 
1-8-68 % 1-6-69 
?Rt tfk 3*fa 'EM Id 
fq«i*iM 4 T) | 


nr ?fo 


< ^rf^r, «ni sflr 
T^m 

l 

2 

3 

1 . [farhr tsr^wfrs] 

L 

i. qt- qr#, 


VitJndi I | 

2. iJ-qii, Efad-i, 


’ 15 TOE 3 ; I | 

3. ff— qT#, E'fad— 1, 

Htdfid. I 

4. e 1 w-II, 

eestts; (3ft 31-5, 
1968 cEfi Sffa 1-8. 
68ff 1-6-69 dq? 

33 % TW fan- 
ret «rr) 1 


3. 1. 3-qfa, EfaiH-I, ve?- 

E 3 -; 1 

2. I 

3. qgrrfq 1 

4 . 1 

5. eEsfa^: titr 1 

6 . qfa't 1 

7. fffaST I 

4, qmsrift 4 RT®Tfft 1. dKEWt I 

2. fa#? frfawi, qm- 
tJRft I 

3. fa vi 4 tfaffTT TTfaef, 
TirpiRfr i 

4. qfTTDprr faw, 
qTTFHft I 

5 . I 

6 . STRTETT I 

7. dfadT I 

8 . ’fTWJT | 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972 AS VINA 29, 1894 


4439 


4T f4 tffaffNdT %V 4 r%4T 4 4>F 4?% 44 %4 %, f%4% 
44 WREFT 4f%4, 41% 47 f%NT 4T 4447 %% '474' 474fT4 
44 f%4T 441 £, 44T441 4FJ44 (wfa) % 

44ST 4f%r4 *ff, wfsr^RT % ST4T4t ft% %t 41441 
44 %4 %, fjEFFt 444 4F474, 4T% 41 f%4T 41 4447 
4%% 4T4 44 fan 44T % 44RFF wpr (srfRr) 

4% ?TFTfer 44C %V 4T44t, %f 714% 47441 % 474411^ 4%4T 1 

44 15-7-72 4 SWFft ?>ft I 

[rto 1 29( 26l/l/72- wfo %Y° 4°)] 


New Della, the 20th July 1972 

S.O. 3140. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (1) of section 122 of Income Tax Act. 1961 
(43 of 1961), and all other powers enabling It In that 
behalf, the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby makes 
the following amendments In the Schedule appended to 
its Notification No. 89 (F. No. 261/16/72TTJ) dated the 
15th May, 1972. 

In the said Schedule, against the following Ranges of 
the Appellate Assistant Commissioners of Income-tax. 
addition as noted against each shall be made in column 


Sec. 3(li)] 


1 


5. ^jT.^TTST^TC 


6. T- Jji j 4 T-ft 


7- ET- <7 : 4" < f-f r 


8. f%Rt r T, F[ 477414 


9. 4^341414 7%, 4441414 


1. 1(514 17 i 

2. ffDTI^y I 

3. T F4 I nil 7 1 

4. 444 4l%4, % r AW,\- 

I 

1. 4-41%, 4%%t I 

2. n-4T%, 474% i 
3- tF’44T'fr I 

4. tfrr^tjT i 

5. 4%ld M I 

1. 4%%I 4f%4, f%ET- 

f%f%4 %t wHF 7 " : — 

(i) 4-41%, 4^%t I 

(ii) <4-41%, 4%% I 

2. 4%#fl%T I 

3. 4414 I 

4. SFFT'm I 

1. 4i-4T%, I 

2. N-4TT, 4TI4T4T4 I 
3* T 1 '* ‘2 1 7 , n *4 1 4 El 1 
4. 41-41%, 4*R44(4T I 

1. RTiTniTT 


f4C4F4f%4 %t 

®T4 44 

(i) 4i— 4T%, 

444T- 

414 I 


(ii) *4-4T%, 

4TT4T- 

4 I 4 1 


2. 44N14T4 

4f44, 


f4T4f%f%7T %t %1WF:- 
58-41%, 4%t4T4T4 I 
3 %%%% I 


2 . 

Nagpur Range, Nagpur. 
Akola Range, Akola. . 

Aurangabad Range, Aurngu- 
bad. 


27. I.T.O.. Survey Ciiclc, Nagpur 
. 20. I.T.O., C-Ward, Chandrapur. 
2t. I.T.O., Survey Circle, Akola. 

22. I.T.O., A-Ward, Yeotmal. 

23. I.T.O., B-Wnrd, Yeotmal. 

19. I.T.O., Parbhani. 

20. I.T.O., Bhir. 


4. j 1 mj 1 

5. TfTR-, 
Id-rdF-iFau %T (51 J : 
41— 41%, 4'4'47T4 T ! 

6. I 


4 ^ 1 klfb u 1 " Tiff %t% *a I 4 4 J The r I , 4T7T 4T 

f%5TT 41 Y347 %tf 474 b/F 44 % tfff 3T4ff%r 

447 %r 477 44 4T44T HfF4, 4T% 4T f%% 41 “4% 
f%4t 474 4 f%7 44 % Tf7 l 4T4f4 , F'T Tf 4% 4Ti%' 


This notification shall take effect from 31st July, 1972. 

[No. 144. (F. No. 261/16/72-ITJ).! 

4f 20 44% 1972 

44 0 %jt o 3 140. — 4T44rr 4faf444, 1961 

(1961 47 43) 4% «T4 122 4% 4WT4 

( 1 ) 5PT 444 7lf%T4f 47, 44%! 44 

(4f4rT 44^ 4414 4Tvft 4%% 4^4 FlfsFRlf 47 4414 

44% ^tt, %4f)4 4^51 44 4T%, 444f 4f4^44I *fo 89 
(47o4° 2fil/l 6/72-41% %V 4) TT#? 15 4%, 1972 

4 4454 44^4)' % TTTTFT 44144 4^41 

^ 1 

444 yd ^41 % 441441 47447 4T444 (44%4) %f 
FhH fH p5l 4 ^41 % 414%, 444 2 4 54^4 % 4144 441- 
fcrf%4 4f%4T4 i44 414% I 

4T4^7 %4, 41457 


27 mW’T HfdTKr. 4^4 

4f%4, 4T457 | 



4440 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II™ 


vtFit ipttWt i 2 EftFFiri, e- 

6 $nt, |i 

21 . ETETT EfWlff, TO ,J ! 

Ef%E, E^'lET | 

2 2 ETETT Ti-Efi, 

EEEETE ij 

23 . etett ttfujir, v-wri , 

TOTO I 

iftGTRK TE, sfKlT- 19. ETWT EfBETTf, T^EEt | 
EIE I 20. E7EEU STfEEUft, f'RT 1 

W, srffe^RT 31 ^TTf, 1972 E ^ETEt ^Efr I 
[E° 144 (<61° E° 26l/l6/72-?rrf Z\ e)] 


S.O. 3141. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (1) of section 122 of Income Tax Act, 196! 
(43 of 1961), and all other powers enabling It in that be- 
half, the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby makes 
the following amendments in the Schedule appended to 
its Notification No. 100 (F. No. 261 /7/72-IT.T) dated the 
3 1st May, 1 972 : — 

(1) In the said Schedule, against • the following 
Ranges of the Appellate Assistant Commis- 
sioners of Income-tax, addition as noted 
against each shall be made in column 2 . 


j^5r, r 3RN^T \ 8. [ EftiEifr, *f-I 

Eit, i] 

9. efteg - iffa^rrflr, 47 -II 

*ni, 1 

TFTJT TNpp; | 29- BFFFT EfiFFlfl, 47-4Tf, 

fEBT# I ] 

3 0. EFFFT EftFFTTf, ly-Trt, 

fwrf i 

31- STTWT EfEETTf, E-EFt, 

fEBit i 

(ii) BEE if, TUfFFfT STREET ('E'ffa - ), 

$frr. ftr?, % HW%, ET^E 2 % BE Eo 2 if, 
“sttwt Efimfr, sr-Trf, tbV” t btte tt , "tnwr 
EfsFFTff spree, EffEEifrE fw beet i 

RR BfilEETT 3 1 SjBlf, 1 972 E BETEl g'TEl I 

[E° 145 (TTo Eo 2 6 1 / 7/ 7 2— srrf Ef #)] 

efto % 0 bpr, w: EfBB, 
%EftB eefe sfr? 1 


Special Range, Indore. . 9 . Incometax Officer, B-Ward, 

Indore, 


Special Range, Jabalpur. . 8 . Incometax Cfficu, A-I Waids, 

Jabalpur. 

9 . Incometax Officer, A-II \Xaid, 
Jabalpur. 

Raipur Range, Raipur. , 29 . Incometax Officer, A-Ward, Bhilai- 

30 . „ „ B-Ward., Bhilai- 

31 . „ ,, C- Ward, Bhilai. 


CORRIGENDA 

IncoMk-tax 

New Delhi, the 30 th June 1972 


ii) In the said Schedule, against Appellate Assis- 
tant Commissioner Indore Range, Indore un- 
der column 2 at S- No. 2, “I.T.O.B.— -Ward, 

Indore" shall be substituted by “I.T.O. Admini- 
stration, Indore.” 

This notification shall take effect from 31st July, 
1972. 

[No. 145 (F, No. 261 /7/72-ITJ).] 

REo Efo 3 141 . — ETERE EftlPviB, 1961 
(1961 ET 43) # EFT 122 # BWE 

( 1 ) 3FT MSB BfRRBf TT, i "3Rt>T Bt) 

f^rf^TxT EE^ RRT^ EFT! E*fT gpE RrfETFff °FT 5PTlB 
RFB 50 ;. %BTtE 5FE4T 7> T RTY, BTRt BfEBERT E° 100 
(EToE* 261/7/72-ETT tf 3), 31 Ef, 1972 

R EBF WJEEt if ITE4S 1 0 fdTdf'-lfNd ERTSB BETT 

i- 

( 1 ) BEE SFPJEf if, E^IEE ETREF EWER 
(TFffE) E7f fdHpEPlH ^ff% EWR, WFT 2 if EEfT % 
ETER BBT fE%E TfwBE fRrr RTW I 
fRifh'Rjr, I 9. RTRBF EfttETTf, E-ETE 

I 


S.O. 3142. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (1) of Section 122 of the Income-tax Act, 
1981 (43 of 1961) and all other powers enabling it in 
that behalf, the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby 
directs that the following corrections shall be made In 
the Schedule to its Notification No. 96 (F. No. 20/12/72- 
ITJ), dated the 29th May, 1972: — 

(1) In serial No. 2 for “SPECIAL RANGE, AGRA” 
read “RANGE II, AGRA.” 

(2) In serial No. 3 for “RANGE II, AGRA” read 
“RANGE III, AGRA.” 

(3) In serial No. 5 for “SPECIAL RANGE. KAN- 
PUR” read “RANGE I, KANPUR.” 

(4) In serial No. 6 for “RANGE T. KANPUR” read 
“RANGE II, KANPUR.” 

(5) In serial No. 7 for “RANGE II, KANPUR” read 
"RANGE III, KANPUR.” 

( 6 ) In serial No. 8 for “RANGE III, KANPUR” read. 
"RANGE IV, KANPUR.” 

(7) In serial No. 11 under columns ( 2 ) and (3) delete 
the existing range and circles and add the 
following : — 

Col. (3) Col. (3) 

“RANGE-III, MEERUT” 

“CENTRAL CIRC! ES AT MEERUT” 


[No. 134(F, No. 261/12/72-ITJ).] 



Sec, 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF iNOtA : 

Wfz Tg- 

FPT FP 

F# fpFt, 30 FF, 19 7 2 

FF 0 ?fto 3142. — FERR Sffsjf^TTT 1901 ( 1901 FT 43) 
Ft RET 1 2 2 FT FF RUT ( 1 ) gilTT FFP FfqFFf FT Fk 
FFFT FF fFfFP ?WT FFIF FTFt FFt ?EF slfaFFt FT FFTF 
FTF gTT, PFET FEI5T F^ FIT FfT^gpT fF#F FFT & fF 
FFFt FfrpJFFT Fo 96 (FTo Fo 2 6 l/ 1 2/ 7 2— FIT# #t F ) 

FTTBF 29 F# 1 9 7 2 Ft SEJ^ft it fpFfpfe'F SjfeFT q?t 
FTTnft : — 

( l) FF F° 2 it, “fWF^T, FETF - ’ % TFTF 
FT ' ^F-2, FTFu" qf I 

( 2 ) ff fro 3 it, "fF -2 fttt" % ptet p 
“fF-3, FTFTT'' qf I 

( 3 ) FF F 0 5 it, '?F5TF TF, FEPJT” % PTET FT, 
‘TF-1, FEEjr" Ff I 

( 4 ) FF Fo 6 it, "fF-1, FTFJT" % TFET FT 

"tf- 2 , fetjt" qf 1 

( 5) FF Fo 7 it, “TF-2, FTFJT" % TFTF 9T 

"TF--3, ftfjt" qf | 

( 0 ) FF Fo 8 it, '#F-3, FEEJT" % J«HF FT 
"fF-4, FEPJT” qf I 

(7) FF F o 1 1 it, «PF ( 2 )Fk ( 3) F ftF 
fqTTFTF fF Fk FfF~r FT F T fqrr 

FTFF :— 

PUF( 2) EPF ( 3) 

''tF-3 FF5” "ksk Ff%F, FT5, 

[F° 134 (FT° Fo 26 l/l 2/ 7 2—FT# #t F)] 

New Delhi, the 17 th July 1972 

S.O. 3143. — In exercise of th e powers conferred by 
Sub-section (1) of Section 122 of the Income-tax Act, 
1961 (43 of 1961) and of all other powers enabling it In 
that behalf, the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby 
directs that the following corrections shall be made In 
the Schedule and Explanatory Note to its Notification 
No. 99 (F. No. 261/19/72-ITJ) dated 31st May, 1972: — 

I. In the said Schedule : 

(1) for “Amritsar Range,” read “A — Range, Amritsar.” 

(2) for “Central Flange, Amritsar” read "B — Range, 
Amritsar.” 


OCTOBER 21, 19?2.’ASViNa 20, 1894 444l 


(3) in Column (2) against B-Range, Amritsar, delete 
the existing Income-tax Circles, Wards and Districts 
appearing In item 1 and substitute the following: — 

3 -"All Central Circles which have or had their 
headquarters at Amritsar, Ludhiana, Ambala 
and Srinagar and Central Circles III, IV and 
V of Kanpur. 

II. The existing Explanatory Note shall be deleted 
and the following shall be .substituted: — 

“This Notification has become necessary conse- 
quent on realignment of jurisdiction of Appeal- 
late Assistant Commissioners within the Com- 
missioner of Income-tax’s charge, in view of 
work-load etc. 

[No. 140 (F. No. 261/19/72-ITJ.)] 
P. K. SHARAN, Under Secy. 
Central Board of Direct Taxes. 

Ft fk*ft, 17 ^FT# 1972 

FF° sfto 3143. — FTWT ’fWfFF 1961 
{ 1 96 1 FT 43) Ft SETT 122 qft F F F1TT (l) 
TTTT FTP srfFTFf Fk FF fpfFP FF FF«T 
PFEt FTpt FFt SEF FfWf FT FFtF FT(t gF 
FFTF FT Ft# lET^STTT fp#F #FT | fo FFFt F fp ^ FF T 
F° 99 (FT® Fo 26 l/l 9/72-Frf o #to # 0 ) pfotFT 
31—5—1972 Ft F-jgft Fk TqpffoPF foqF F fpF- 
fo%P TTfl'Ft Ft FTFFt : — 

I. FTP F^f#t it : 

( 1 ) "FJfFFT Tf' j F (FTP FT 

1 fo-f F, tpjfft 1 ’ qf I 

(2) "krtF^F, F’JFFT” % PIET FT 
"p-TF, FFFFT'’ qf I 

(3) P-^F, FJfTFT^FlFPFTnT (2 ) 3tFT 1 if 

FEt pfo foPFET FTFFT pfop, FT# Fk 
fF% PT f F>T fFPTfafelF TF : — 

1. ‘VfT k#tF Ff%F, fFFF SEJFFT, 

FftTFEU, FTFTFT Fk ? #tFFT if | FT «T 

Fk FETJT % %7sk Ff%F III, V 
Fk V” 

II. fFFFTF PktFITF f# c FF 5FT fFFT FTFFT Fk 
rpFfFfFrcT T^T FTFFT : — 

"Ft? FfugFFT FTFTfFF Flf# Ft EFF F PFF 
grr FTFFT FTFTF % FFTT % FtcTT FfTFF 
FTFFF (F'frF) Ft FftlFlRdl % 5F: 
F^IFF % qfTFTFTFFF FTFTFF ft F# | l’* 

Fo 140 (FTo Fo 26 1- 1 9- 7 2-FT#o #to f 0 ) 



[Pxar Jt~ 


4442 THE GAZETl'E OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21. 1977/ \sVJnA 2i\ 1894 


Income-tax 

New Delhi, the 20 th June 1972 

S.O. 3144. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (1) of Section 121 of the Income-tax Act. 
1961 (43 of 1961) the Central ‘Board of Direct Taxes 
hereby makes the following amendments to the Sche- 
dule appended to its Notification No. 20 (F. No. 55/1/62- 
IT). dated the 30‘h April, 1963, published as S.O. 1293 
on page 1454-1457 of the Gazette of India, Part II, Sec- 
tion 3, Sub-section (ii), dated the 11th May, 1963 as 
amended from time to lime. 

I. Against S. No. 5A, Bombay City III, under 
column 3 of the Schedule appended thereto, 
for A-I Ward and A-III Ward read C-IB Ward. 

II. Against S. N. 5B, Bombay City IV, under column 
3 of the Schedule appended thereto, for C-IV 
Ward read A-I Ward and A-III Ward. 

This Notification shall take effect from "26th June, 
1972. 

[No. 117 (F. No. 1 87 / 13/ 72-IT ( AI) .) 


srrwc 

wi fawft, 20 47, 197 2 

44° 4 to 3144. — 4T447 4f«rf744, 1961 

( 196 1 74 43) Vt WD 121# 3WITI (i) ffTTT 47rT 
tfffacFfir 47 44t4 4X77 Jit, % ? 7f4 SR43T 777 %tf , 4T77 % 
7M74, 2, 4P>r 3, (ii), Tpfkr II 4§, 

1963 % 1454-1457 77 74° 4T° 1293 % ^4 if 

SEFTfUFT, STTfft 4f%g47T ffo 20 (74° 4° 5 5/ 1/ 62— 
srrf 4 t), TITtN 30 4%7, 1963 XT 44*7 444-444 qr 
44T 44tf%7 47 7 ; 71 if V7'7T71 f7*4p4fqr7 44747 TBT 

I:— 

1. %o #0 547, 74T 3 % 4T4% 7X1% XT4T7 

% 77^4 3 % %t%, 41-1 7T% 4k 

7X-3 41% % 74T7 IT, 4-4 77% if I 

2. % 0 % 0 5— *1 , 4 x 4 % 6 9 X 4 % 4T4% 74% 

47*4 4Jfj(7t % *7*4 3 % *%%, 4-4 4T% 

% X4T4 qr, qr - 1 4T% wk qr- 3 4T% 9 % l 

45 4%*3(47T 26-6- 1972 % RflTqt gW I 

[xf 0 117 (txt° xr o 187 / 1 3 / 72 — qrrt ^V (it i)] 


New Delhi, the 27 th June 1972 

S.O. 3145. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
Bub-aection (1) of Section 121 of the Income-tax Act, 
1961 (43 of 1961), the Central Board of Direct Taxes 
hereby makes the following amendments to the Schedule 
appended to its Notification No. 20(F. No. 55/1/62-IT), 
dated the 30th April, 1963 published as S.O. 1293 on 
1454 to 1457 of the Gazette of India Part II, 


Section 3, sub-section (ii) dated the 11th May, 19G3, as 
amended from time to time: — 

I. Against S. No. 7-A, Delhi (Central), under column 
3 of the Schedule appended thereto, 

(1) the following entries srha l be deleted: 

3. Central Circles I and II at Ludhiana. 

4. Central Circles I, II and III at Amritsar. 

(ii) the existing items No. 5 to 8 shall be re- 
numbered as 3 to fi 

II. Against S. No. 13, Punjab, Jammu & Kashmir and 
Chandigarh, under column 3 of the Schedule appended 
thereto, the existing entry shall be substituted by the 
following: 

“States of Punjab, Jammu & Kashmir and Union 
Territory of Chandigarh including Central 
Circles at Ludhiana and Amritsar and Central 
Circles III — VII, Ludhiana (previously known 
as Special Circles, Wards A — E, Ludhiana) and 
excluding Central Circle at Srinagar and also 
excluding Income-tax Circle for Kangra and 
Chamha Districts of Himachal Pradesh at 
Pathankot.” 

This notification shall come into force on the 1st 
July, 1972. 

I No. 124 (F. No. 187/1 4/ 72-IT (AI).] 

T. P. JHUNJHUNWALA, Secy. 

Central Board of Direct Taxes. 


7% 27 '44, 197 2 

rrsfo %io 3145 . — 4747 x 7 4 ^ 744 , 1961 
(i 96 i qxr 43 ) qxr srrcr 121 qxr 4T-4T7T (i)Trcr 474 
14(4441 qxr 44f4 txtT $nr, %7ft4 4cw 7 x 7 sfti, 4777 % 

77444, 474 2, ’jof 3, 74 (ii) 7T%4T 11 4%, 

1963 %^ 1454 4 1457 47 7X10 4T° 1293 % 44 
4 5T7Xrf%7 447t 4ftrx£77T 4° 20 (44® 4° 55/ 1 / 

6 2-41$ 3%) 71714 30 447,19 63X144*7 444-444 
47 441 XT4lf4T 47^41 % 4777171 fk7f4f*J7 XT 4147 
7X771 I : — 

I. 4>o 4° 7-qi, fkrfl (%7ft4) % 414%, 44% 

4417 4ijg4T % 77F4 3 % %t%, — 

( i ) f7T7f4f%7 4f7fe4t 7J41 7X7 44%% 1 — 

3. %uft4 4f%4 i, 4k ii, Xjf%4T7T I 
4-%kT4 4f%7 i, ]i 4k lii 4*J747 I 

(ii) f444T7 47 4° 5% 8, 44 3 % 6 % W % 

’|7: %74H%7 7% 7n%*ft i 

II. %o 13, 44R, 4T*£%t7 qX7%T7 4k 

% 4T4%, 44% XT4*7 4^^% % 


pages 



Sec. 3(H)] 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVlNA 29. 1694 


4443 


3 % fWEET, Srfrfe % E4TR 
tt, nfrfts RfaFTTfaff 

STTTTift 


TT TtV TTTJRT fa^I ^TT | fT Ttf 3fTCrT ff PPR WPJTT, 
^ft EPTTT fojTT g*TT ft, faw 

TSTTHT T^Tt if ft, 


"q-^rr^-, «ft t THEftr cm sftc ■^Ett 

3*T TR4 WST f5R% 

«jfwn jftr <. sflr 

III-VII pjfSTTRT (aft Tgir fwr 

4T# T-y, ^ftETHT % TET ^ 5fj^ 

an^ it) »ft ? 5fk farr% sp?nfa 

teftr sfaw, fj^tjt «rtr faFr% 

*RPk rpHTT^T ST^T % T5HTST tflT 
qWT farat % f^rrr qsH^tZ f%«T?T *TPT- 
TR tffspH «ft Egt | l" 

4f Wfa^THl 7 apTT^, 1972 it ST^fT ?>ft I 

[Eo 124 (UTo Eo 18 7/ 14/7 2— WT$ l)] 

<ft ° tft o ijT^TTraTj trfqr, 

*Eft4 IRW 4R Ttf I 


Estate Duty 

New Delhi, the 13th July 1072 
S.O. 3146. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (2A) of Section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 
1953 (34 of 1953), the Central Board of Direct Taxes 
hereby direct that an Assistant Commissioner of 
Income-tax, appointed to be the Appellate Controller 
of Estate Duty with headquarters at Bareilly, shall per- 
form the functions of an Appellate Controller of Estate 
Duty in respect of, 

(a) the estates of deceased persons assessed to 
estate duty by an Assistant Controller of Estate 
Duty, and 

(b) the estates of deceased persons in relation to 
which an appeal lies under section 62 of the 
Estate Duty Act, 1953, against an order passed 
by an Assistant Controller of Estate Duty. 

where such Assistant Controller has in exercise of his 
functions under the Estate Duty Act, 1953 made such 
assessments or passed such orders in any area com- 
prised within the jurisdiction of the Commissioners of 
Income-tax mentioned below: — 

Commissioner of Income-tax, Lucknow. 

Commissioner of Income-tax, Kanpur. 

2. This notification shall come Into force with effect 
from the 15th July, 1972. 

[No. 7/F. No. 301/77/72-E.D.] 
BALBIR SINGH, Secy., 
Central Board of Direct Taxes. 


13 3JTTT$, 1972 

^lo STT° 3146. — (TO SlfaftTPT, 1953 

( 1953 TT 34) ^ ETTT 4 TWRI (2T) TRT 
4TCT srfwrf TT SpfEr 4HT gq, 5JET6T 


(Ti) Tff Tit (RTCI, 5ft *n*RT 5(RT5 3fT- 

srt qpRt % fqcr fatrffcr 
Tf 4$ ft, tftr 

(q ) TT sqftcpff Tit 3TO5T, RTaptj ^ grq-^ 

T^TWfpcpF SRI farr tht Wltn 

% fa« 3PTTT TcT 1953 Tft 

art 62 % sum wftT qit tS gt, 

Tit sfHIff 4ft Tft if 4 BfPTT fffJRTT 4, TfJTT qfa- 
fow, 1 953 % STEt fl?4t TT STTtT TRT fa 4r% 

TtHff 5TPTTR WlTTTt : — 

5IT4TR <tri[TT, I 

«rr4TR mijiT, ^itjt i 

T?t wftTErfTdT $ »ftcR ttmlw fotft iff* Jr froS^i 
f%q gt m tit^i fer ft epttt ?rr-T-'tt , ffT-f4q^ % 
$Eft «PT TTH4 TftriT I 


2. 15^3T$, 1972 %STfHf>ft I 

[Eo 7/950 Ito 301/77/72-fojto) 


fag, 

31^4, 4?TtiT TR <fl4 I 


DEPARTMENT OF SUPPLY 

New Delhi . the 28 th March, 1972. 

S.O. 3147. — In exercise of the powers eqpferred by 
sub-rule (2) of rule 9, clause (b) of sub-rule (2) of rule 
12, and sub-rule (1) of rule 24, read with rule 34, of the 
Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and 
Appeal) Rules, 1965, the President hereby directs that 
the following further amendment shall be made in the 
notification of the Government of India in the late 
Ministry of Industry and Supply (Department of Sup- 
ply and Technical development) No. S.R.O. 3687, dated 
the 12th October, 1984, as amended by notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Supply No. S.O. 
1361, dated the 2nd February, 1971, namely: — 

In the Schedule to the said notification, for the 
entry “Deputy Director General (Administra- 
tion)” wherever it occurs, the entry “Director 
of Administration” shall be substituted. 


[No. File 17(l)/67-V.] 


S. S. PURI, 
Director (Vilgilance). 



4444 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II— 


gfff faffFT 

28 ffpf, 197 2 

C(4o W>o 3147 — faf** 4 47 
-T 4348 WT m\^ ) faff4 19 65 % fff44 9 T 44-fd44 ( 2) 
t444 12% 34 f^ER (2) % iw(9) ' = t B TT 34 Tt 

4T*I ’TfSrT P-T44 2 4% 31-fd4R( 1 ) %5RT 5R7T TTfTWT 77 
4414 7R% Tp^qfff tr^pi %% % f% % (R4 

4ttr % 4?rj4 ssi'ft sftr #r 44T 

PT^fart fwr4 fa«TR) %'r 4Rta 12 m^-ix, 19 64 %Y 
WfEPfUiT 4OT q;^o ?TRo STTo 368 7 4, 3ft 'RRcT *RTR 
% 'jfff 434514 %t 4R%4T 24>T4TV, 1971 %t sqfytJffnT 
4S4T 1^4 °4T o 13 61 5RT 4<fftf44 %t iff «ft, SlK 414 
pRTfPrfa'4 49ftSTd f%4T ^TTQ.FT W4 : — 

Wfa^RT ^ 4^^4t 4, "4T 4tfrfa%9NF (44444 ) ’’ 
%t srfafe % faq, 4t 3ffiT ( “47444 fiRifFF” srM^ 
4fcR*rrpT4 %t irrrrJft I 

[4<54T 'FT 0 17 ( 1 ) / 6 7-4% ] 
IT 40 q 4 o <|7>, 
fa^TPfr (44%4T) I 


ministry of agriculture 
(Department of Agriculture) 

New Delhi, the 18 th July, 1972. 

S.O. 3148. — The following draft of certain rules fur- 
ther to amend the Seed Potatoes Grading and Marking 
Rules, 1963, which the Cer/tral Government proposes to 
make In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 
of the Agricultural Produce ( Grading and Marking) Act, 
1937 (1 of 1937) is hereby published, as required by the 
said soction, for Information of all persons likely to be 
affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the said 
draft will be taken into consideration on or after 30th 
September, 1972. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received 
from any person with respect to the said draft before 
the date so specified will be considered by the Central 
Government. 

Draft Rule* 

1. These rules may be called the Seeds Potatoes Grad- 
ing and Marking (Amendment) Rules, 1972. 

2. In the Seed Potatoes Grading and Marking Rules, 

1903: — 

(1) in rule 3 for the words and figures ‘‘Schedule 
II”. the words and figures “Schedules II and 
III” shall be substituted. 

(ii) in rule 4 for the words and figures “Schedule 
II". the words and figures “Schedules II and III” 
shall be substituted. 

(iii) after Schedule II, the following Schedule 
shall be added namely; 

Schedule III 
(See rules 3 and 4 ) 


Grade designations and definition of equality of Seed Potatoes of Kufri Chandramukhi variety. 


Grade 

lesignation. 

Size 

General characteris- 
tics 

Conformity Under size 
to varietal or 

characteristics over size 

Disease 

Damage 

Earth and/or 
extraneous 
matters 

I 

2 

3 

4 5 

6 

7 

8 

\ — I 

Above 55 mm. 

The tubers shall be 

No off-type 2 % under 

No pimpled 

Not to exceed 

N ot to exceed 


in length 

reasonably clean, 

tubers allowed sized by 

(Nematode 

more than 3 % 

1 % by 



healthy, firm with 

in excess of count. 

infected or 

as under 

weight. 

II 

46 mm. to 

charactcrsltic 

1 % by count. 

scab infected) (i) upto I % sli- 



55 mm. in 

shape and col- 


tubers allowed 

ghtly cracked & 



length. 

our of the variety 


Blight or bac- 

bruised tubers ; 




and each tuber hav 

Do. 

teria infected 



A — III 

25 mm. to 

ing at least three 


tubers not to 

(ii) upto 2 % in- 



45 mm. in 

well-developed via- 


exceed 1 % by 

sect damaged 



length. 

ble eyes. 


count. 

provided the in- 

mrv nr*! 



impair the seed 
quality; 

(ill) Superficial 
blemishes, not 
likely to affect 
keeping quality, 
shall not exceed 
in aggregate 1/4 
of the total area 
of a tuber. 


N.B. Tuber of Kufri Chandramukhi variety arc oval, slightly longer than “sup-to-datc”, flattened and attractive. Colour of the 
kin is white ard that of the flesh is dull white, EyeB arc flats, concentrated on the crown region. The number of eyes Is more tha 
up-to-date.’ 


ENo. F. I3-6/71-C&M.] 


Sec. 3(il)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4445 


fifr 


18 5TTT| 1972 

VT ° JfTo 314 8 — cil j| Itm ? Y' ,J TPm j T ljY"t , 1 963 if ?tYt TtWtSTT '+ <4 Pl^l Ppt*ff 4TT, 5ft ^ r ^pT 

ITTER ®rpt WTTT (^oft^TOTWtT Pt^T ) wfaPm, 193 7 ( 1937TT 1 ) *t?t ETRT 3 STTT STTYT WpRWf W 9TT»T 
TTt |IT 5TPTETTT TTcfr ft, PlHPlpTlT STT^T 34tT STITT TTTT WWtfttTT, TTT% tmmttt: TUTpET ftPt *1% TT*ft stfwtf 

^fft - ^rrTTTft ^Prirq^inr sr^w^ fw ^ttst ft «fk q^im gfTT Pftt srnrr ft % rt^t qr 30-9-1972 <tt 
PpTR fw 5nTT^TT I 

TTT SOW T *Tr? if Pptft vft sqPfcT if, 5TTR PtPlpFT HTCpT if ^4 TTT ftPT *17% ?traTT TT gSTEt 7T %kPt 1TCTTT 
5TTT PpTTC pRT vi)|itJ|| I 

TTT9 Pm 


1. PTTiTf 4TT TW Tf3f ^iftTZT TtYt fsf (TfsfpTT) Pt*Pt , 19 7 2 ftPlT I 

2. TfJT 1TT5 “YTtTTT wYr fr^-T Pm, 19 63 if : — 

(i) Hrm 3 if, "Tpjgrt ij” ?fk sf^ff % t«rm tc "*Ejq^ff ii stYt j{i” ?t> hit stPrmrPtT faq TTqif i 

(ii) Prqrr 4 if "sr^’ff ii” st^sth: ifTt % F4ET qr ii ttYt iii’” sr®5 sfk wr srfcT^^rPm frq Tm i 

(iii) ii % 'mrTrt PthThPuT STJ^sfY sft?Y TEUtt, tfstfa : — 

w^Y-III 
(Pm 3 ifrr 4 £P#) 

tttt Pm % qYr m % staff trPttjT?r ft«tt q^rfm qft qfrctm 

s3 'O *s 

i^uft stfwJTT TTTWT TTTJTTJT TST'JT Pm % TW>ff it m TOm 


12 3 4 


IT-1 STEfTf if 5 5 PtobYo it 5rPrT 5TE-I+'-; ^pTT 3TTTT P mT3, t^T «t, Pm it Pm STFJT*? Pmff if I STpHTET 

sYtr ftf itYt frm % MVra: it trfaT ^etstt Bftf ftPt i 

stepr stk m % ftpT cP4T 
if qn it qrrr tfPr 

«T 

TtPtTftTTT ?TWT 5TTT m3 |Pft I 

q-2 5T®^if 4 6 Pto *ffo it 5 5 Pro bYo — imY^T— -«1 «tY41T- 

cftl I 

it— 3 TTC^kif 25 PtoTpo it 45Pto Tpo — JTKtVfTT— -mtTTT- 


fTT I 



4446 Sec. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, I972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


RTRFR ST1 RPR Si 

TFT 

WfR 

Fra# rYt/rt rt? v r 

sTffinr m trr-fnr 



art 4 





5 

6 

7 

8 

FrrrY Sr 2 rFrrr, 

RS i^P ATR ( R^RA AT# Rt% fw SFJRTT 3% ft RfaRr R$T 

AAA BTU 1% # 

four a aiart] 

START RiTAR R^RA AT# R[# 


stYjr r^T iff# i 

% i 

1 fAUft RAAT rYttA RAf#R 

1. i% RR TUT AT# rYt 



RT-rf fippft sf 1% Sr srfRT? a*# rFa i 

SrYfR AT# WRJRRR ; 


rurt 


2. 2% cfp jrrr sm anrraf fo hr 




srfA# ^Ya rY raiFm^ Sr tp a 
TTTAT ?# ; 


ratta 


i Rn cO d 




PT# Al# RTf# ATfY RPR % 

fH RRAT % $A £ # RfEPP Rijf 
1 



faftT STR TYFrY : f lid fafR % 5TJPFR 'R^TRR’ f%TR %■ H*#, «nt RRT WI=pf«5 $YY $ t f®R% 

jfrr t*t r^s rrt jjY rr rF^rr ^trr 1 1 *rr<} RqrfY rrt ftrar tf?r tt rYYjr <rYft $ 1 rfjY 

R5TT 'tTW'T'T 7t, srfatf $Yft I I 


New Delhi, the 2nd September, 1972. 

8.0. 3149. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
Section 6 of the Agricultural Produce (Grading and 
Marking) Act, 1927 (1 of 1937), the Central Government 
hereby declares that the provisions of the said Act shall 
apply to the following article, namely: — 

Coconut (including Copra) 

[No. 13-5/72-C&M,] 
T. D. MAKHIJANI, Under Secy. 

iff famt, 2 fRRfRT, "1972 

RTTo RTo 3149. — -fifa RTR (‘RRYeTR RtT fR^R) 
RfRfRRR, 1937 ( 1937 «fR l) ^ 9TTT 6 JTTT 5TRU 
Tiff if -pU RT RTtR RT?T |P , Y-TTT RTT7T RtfilH 

pr-fT | fY TTT wfilfRRR TTPR fR*Rfuf%R RUJ 
HPT ?TR, : — 

"RrftRH (faR% R^RR *rft RV I)” 

[4o 13-5/72-qfT RqTfRRTOt] 
Rt°Rt°RPsft°rTRt, i RfRR I 


(Department of Cooperation) 

New Delhi, the 22nd August, 1972 

S.O. 3150.. — In exercise of the owers conferred by 
section 5B of the Multi-unit Cooperative Societies Act, 
1942 (6 of 1942), and hi supersession of the notification 


[(To 91° 13-8/71-qEH tPTT fowl] 

of the Government of India, In the Ministry of Food, 
Agriculture, Community Development and Cooperation 
(Department of Cooperation), No, L/llOll/2/70-Coord, 
dated the 27th March, 1971, the Central Government 
hereby directs that all the powers and authority exercis- 
able by the Central Registrar of Cooperative Societies 
under the said Act shall, in relation to the cooperative 
societies specified in column (2) of the Table below, be 
exercisable also by the officers specified in the corres- 
ponding entry in column (1) of the said Table, subject 
to the following conditions namely: — 

(1) that the powers and authority so delegated shall 
in respect of the following cooperative societies be exer- 
cisable by the said officers only in relation to matters 
pertaining to settlement of disputes, appeals, revision 
and review and execution of awards, decisions, decrees 
and orders: — 

(1) All India Central Land Development Banks’ 

Cooperative Union Limited, Hyderabad, 
Andhra Pradesh, 

(2) All India State Cooperative Banks’ Federation 
Limited, Bombay, Maharashtra. 

(3) National Cooperative Union of India Limited. 
Delhi. 

(4) National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing 
Federation Limited, Delhi. 

(6) National Cooperative Consumers’ Federation 
Limited, Delhi. 

(6) National Federation of Cooperative Sugar 
Factories Limited, Delhi, 



Sec. 3 (H)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 , 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4447 


( 7 ) National Federation ol Industrial Cooperatives 
Limited, Delhi. 

(8) National Cooperative Housing Federation Limi- 
ted, Delhi. 

( 9 ) Indian Farmers’ Fertiliser Cooperative Limited. 
Delhi. 

( 10 ) All India Federation o{ Cooperative Spinning 
Mills Limited, Bombay. 


( 11 ) All India Industrial Cooperative Banks’ Feder- 
ation Limited, Bangalore. 

( 12 ) National Cooperative Dairy Federation of India 
Limited, New Delhi. 

(2) that in the exercise of the powers and authority 
so delegated in relation to the matters specified in (1) 
above (other than appeals, revision and review), the 
said officers shall compel with such directions as may 
he issued by the Control Registrar of Cooperative 
Societies. 


Table 


SI. Officers Multi-unit cooperative societies. 

No. 


(r) 


( 2 ) 


1 Registrar of Cooperative Societies for the State of Andhra 

Pradesh appointed under section 3 of the Andhra Pradesh 
Coopcradve Socieites Act, 1964. 

2 Registrar of Cooperative Societies for the State of Assam 

appointed under seddon 3 of the Assam Cooperative So- 
cieties Act, 1949. 

3 Registrar of Cooperative Societies for the State of Bihar ap- 

pointed under section 6 of the Bihar and Orissa Cooperative 
Societies Act, 1935. 

4 Registrar of Cooperative Societies for the State of Gujarat 

appointed under section 3 of the Gujarat Cooperative So- 
cieties Act, 1961. 

5 RtgUtrac of C operative Societies for the State of Hiryana 

aomintei tinier section 3 of the P niah Cara native So- 
cieties Act, I 95 i as in force in the State of Haryana. 

6 Registrar of Cooperative Societies for the State of Himachal 

Pradesh appointed under section 3 of the Himachal Pradesh 
Cooperative Societies Act, 1956. 

7 R’-pstrar of Cooperative Societies for the State of Kerala 

appointed under section 3 of the Kerala Cooperative So- 
cieties Act, 1969. 

8 Registrar of Cooperative Societies for the State of Maihva 

Pradesh appointed under section 3 of the M.P. Cooperative 
Societies Act, i960. 

9 (i) Registrar of Cooperative Societies for the State of Mahi- 

rashtra appointed un let section 3 of th : M (harashtra 
Cooperative Societies Act, i960. 

(ii) Divisional Joint Registrar of Cooperative Societies, 
Bombay Division, Bombay. 

to Registrar of Cooperative Societies for the State of Mysore 
appolntcl us ler section 2A of the Mysore C imperative 
Societies Act, 1939. 

tt Registrar of Cooperative Societies for the State of Orissa 
appointed under section 3 of the Orissa Cooperative So- 
cieties Act, 1962, 

12 Registrar of Cooperative Societies for the State of Punjab 

aoDointcd under section 3 of the Punjab Coopertivc So- 
cieties Act, 1961. 

13 Registrar of Cooperative Societies for the State of Rajasthan 

appointed under section 3 of the Rajasthan Cooperative 
Societies Act, 1965. 

14 (i) Registrar of Cooperative Societies for the State of Tamil 

Nadu appointed under section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Co- 
operative Societies Act, 1961. 

(ii) Joint Repuxar 0 f Cooperative Societies (Intensive Agri- 
cultural Area Programme), Tamil Nadu, Madras. 


All multi-unit Cooperative socieites which actually are or 
are deemed to be registred in the State of Andhra Pradesh. 

All multi-unit cooperative societies which actually are or are 
deemed to be registered in the State of Assam. 

All multi-unit cooperative societies which actually are or are 
deemed to be registered in the State of Bihar. 


All multi-unit cooperative societies which actually are or are 
deemed to be registered in the State of Gujarat. 


All multi-unit cooperative societies which actually are or are 
deemed to be registered in the State of Haryana. 


All multi-unit coopeativc societies which actually are or arc 
deemed to be registered in the State of Himachal Pradesh 

All multi-unit cooperative societies which actually are or 
are deemed to be registered in the State of Kerala. 

AH multi-unit cooperative societies which actually are or arc 
deemed to be registered in the State of Madhya Pradesh. 


All multi-unit cooperative societies, which actually are of 
arc deemed to be registered in the State of Maharashtra, 


Ail multi-unit cnoocrative societies which actually are or are 
deemed to be registered in the State of Mysore, 


All multi-unit cooperative societies which actually are or are 
deemed to be regieterd in the State of Orissa 


All multi-unit cooperative societies which actually are or are 
deemed to be registered in the State of Punjab. 


All multi-unit cooperative °ocieties which actually are or are 
deemed to be registered in the State of Rajasthan. 


All multi-unit cooperative societies which actually are or 
are deemed to he registered in the State of Tamil Nadu. 





4448 


THE GAZETTE CF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , E 72 /ASV 1 NA 29 , 1894 


[Part II 


(i) 


( 2 ) 


15 Registrar of Cooperative Societies for the State of Uttar Pra- 

desh appointed under section 3 of the Uttar Pradesh Co- 
operative Societies Act, 1965. 

16 (i) Registrar of Cooperative Societies for the State of West 

Bengal appointed under section 9 of the Bengal Cooperative 
Societies Act, 1940. 

(ii) Additional Registrar of Cooperative Societies, West Bengal, 
Calcutta, 

17 Registrar of Coopeative Societies for Chandigarh appointed 

under setion 3 of the Punjab Cooperative Societies Act, 
1961 as in force in the Union territory of Chandigarh, 

18 Registrar of Cooperative Societies for Delhi appointed under 

section 4 of the Bombay Cooperative societies Act, 1925 
as extended to Dehi. 

19 Registrar of Cooperative Societies for Goa, Daman and Diu, 

aopointed under Section 3 of the Maharashtra Cooperative 
Societies Act, i960, as applied to the Union territory of 
Goa, Daman & Diu. 

20 Registrar of Cooperative Societies for Manipur appointed 

under section 3 f the Assam Cooperative Societies Act, 
1949, as extended lo Manipur. 

2t Registrar of Cooper uive Societies for Pondicherry appointed 
under section 3 of the Pondicherry Cooperative Societies 
Act, 1965. 

22 Registrar of Coopera ivc Societies for Tripura appointed under 

section 4 of the Bombay C 'operative Soci ties Act, 1925, 
as extended to Tripura. 

23 (i) The Director of Industries and Commerce, Tamil Nadu, 
(ii) The flint Director of Iniustries ani Cimuerca, Tamil 

Nadu. 


All multi-unit cooperative societies which actually arc or arc 
deemed to be registered in the State of Uttar PratkFh. 


All multi-unit cooperative societies which actually are or are 
deemed to be registered in the State of West Bengal. 


All multi-unit cooperative societies which actually are or are 
deemed to be registered in the Union territory of Chandigarh, 

Ail multi-unit cooperative societies which actually are or are 
deemed to be registered in the Union 1 territory of Delhi 

All multi-unit cooperative societies which actually areor 
are deemed to be registered in the Union territory of Goa, 
Daman and Diu. 


All multi-unit cooperative societies which actually are or are 
deemed to be registered in the Union territory of Manipur. 

All multi-unit cooperative ocietics which actually are or ar e 
deemed to be registered in the Union territory of Pondi- 
cherry. 

All multi-unit cooperative societies which actually are or arc 
deemed to be registered in the Union territory of Tripura* 


All multi-unit industrial cooperative societies which ‘ actually 
are or are deemed to be registered in Tamil Nadu. 


[No. L/uoii/2/70-Coord] 

R. SRINIVASAN, Dy. Secy, 

(*TfErfuTr Pur ft ) 

T$ 2 2 iFTTcf, 197 2 

RTTo WTo 3150, — ^4747 TTBTiffr RFufTTR 1942 ( 1942 TT 6) TTp HUT 5 RT jllTT 

T7R FTfaTU TT 5TTFT TUT fir TR RUT B^TTT % I 9T'T, ftfa, TTRTTfUF pTTTR R'TTifrTT RURT (JT^rfVrTT 

fUTFT) 4?t 27 RTR197 1 TT RfRRRTTT »TWT Ifd/llOll/ 2 / 7 0 Td RTT o rjJ RptUfiFR TRd §(T %-ufTT RTTTT 
tTTTjrU fddsi Tfr £ fV RTT RpRfdRR % RjrT fcjlR rf RUTRTP R'fRrf f[ 3TU T rtTUR STTRmrffpR 47p RRR> 
% tftpr ( 2 ) *r PtPtFtr rtthtt tfrar^fiufi % rtr R rtt rurt % rt«t (i) fir rt tcri-rett R fafRf ft faFTfae 
trFfmf’-fr tut tfr farTf-Tpi'T ru % rut rg% |,t rutur s'rfr, tut, : — 

(l) fa fUTfafaT RSRTTt RfaT^ffaf Rp TTRT ?R T FT f 4FJT UfTT RfaTRf RpT TrPj FTT TTT TTfj FfVff 3TR 
%TR fTTTTf TTfdTTm, RIpR ITTpRR RpT IdPTUET RpT TUU, fTp-UTTr, fsfaTT Rtf qT?Rf % fURIRT 
% RffaT RTRRT % TIT ST # RUTTU : 

1. RfaR 'RTTTFT RFTlR tjFtr pTRTR RfRlfP RT PtFrIt, if TTTUT, RUN I 

2. Rfr-T rrtPr ttt-t RfTrd #'r tFttt f>rFtrr^, r^tttgj i 

3. RTETpR RiTRITP FT fafRTT, pT-TT I 

4. TTtgtT Rpf R$RRp pTTRT TpFTT fapRiR, fdRRp I 

5. TRjlR r^rttP rtrtttt tFtt'r fafars Pudr I 

6. TT^R RsTRTTp %TT TAWT-TT TpTRR pR^TTR, PUTT I 



Sec. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVlNA 29, 1894 


4449 


7. TR£Vf TT't#fFF.H?FTtt FfTFF fa fobs, fa?# I 

8. TT^TF F^FT# TTTFTF FfTFF fa?# I 

9. FTT#F RTF FF?F F^FT# Ffafa fafFfa fa?# \ 

10 . SlfarF FF# I HFFT# FFlt fFF iffaF fa=, FCF§ I 

1 1. wfarF ff#f 'cfr^rfrr^r irft# #F FffaF faa, ff#t i 

1 2. FF#F TT>#F FfTFT# iff FfTFF fao, # fa?# I 

( 2 ) FTOFF ( 1 ) F fFfafa'F FTF# (#fa 'JFftiT'F Ft? , fafF#FF FfaF) 4 F iffa ?F FFF SEFTFffFF DTpfTTT 

f‘F FffaFrtf ft f#f f# fi fft Ffa ft# ffa fat 41 ft mto fTf fa fa #ffa tPsfjf fffi# FrFiFfT 
J FT FT# ffa ^rrrT I 

HF# 


fo hfft 


FfaFT# 


FfffFF TFFT# FIFr^fAFT 


(l) (2) 

1. TIER Ffa FTR# FT FT iff TTfafaFF, 1964 FtSTFT 3 F H# ^FF FT FI# FTFTTfiFT # TTRSF FTR TFT 

% fafa faff FT, FEF sfa Fr“F % fa'T TfafaR F<TFT# Jr FT?##: FT H ###FF % FT #F?#FF FF# Ft 
HETTS# I £ I 

2 . Trim ffft# #ftt# T rfafaFF, 1 9497 ft firrrr 3 % f#t f h# fjit ff FTFuffat sfr teto ttw if fttf- 

fafTT TTffF FRF % faff TfaT?F FTFT# #Ffa# I faF FR F cfaF^FF | FT TfaF=fTfTT FF# Ft | I 

3. ffaTT 5T# FfTFT FITFT# HTFfa# FfafFFF 1 935# FFT F F# FTJfaF FfFT# HTFfafaFT FT fa?TT TT^F if 

6% fafa fa TFT, f#p; TRF % faff #fajK FTEFfa'F FT F TfafatfTT % FT Tfa? £facT FF# Ft t I 
F?FT# #FT?# I 

4. F^FTF HfFT# #FT?# trfafaFF, 1961 # FFT 3 % F F# Ff'JFF F?FT# FTFTSfaFT FT F3FTF TT*F if 

Tr^F fa'JFT ^RTF TRF % fatT #fa£TT FTTFT# FTTFfaF FF F ifaf^faF if FT Tfar^faF FH3# Ft t I 
FTFTS# I 

5. ##rFTT FRF if FFTF^TT FFTF FfFT# FTFTT#f TTfafFFF, F FFT FfTlfT FTFITfaFt FT fffFFPFT TT^F if 

1961 Tf FTO 3 % F-JTF fF'JTF ^flFTFr R“F % faff, FTTFfFFT ¥F % ^faF^ffR % FT FfaT^TgrF FFuff 
Tf-FT^K FfFltT FtFT^Sff 1 Ft | I 

6. f^FTFH Ffa F?ETTT FTFnfat TrfafFFF, 195 6 Tf FFT 3 F F'FT FFTltf FTFIlfafft Ft f^FTFH Ffa TTFF 

% TTSffF fF’TFF, f^FTFF T fa TRF, % facr FfF^TT if FEFfFT FF F FfaT^tfF | FT Tfarft^F FFjff Ft % I 

FFCrff FTFTT'Pr I 

7 . fan FfaKT FtFTFfT TrfafFFF, 1 96 9# FPT 3 % TTFVf F FFt F^ffFF F?FTrT FTFT^faFt FT %TF TRF if FITF- 

fFFFF faF RTF % fact Ffa^R FFFffT FTFirff I fFF ^F F FfaF^faF | FT T facffaF FF5ff Ft I I 

8 . FKF Ffa FFFTff FtFT^ff TrfafFFF, 1960# FtTr 3 % F F'FT FgffFF FifffffT FTFTCfffFT FT F8F Ffa if FTHT- 

TT#F fF)JFF FTF Ffa TT^T % faff cfa?fff^T F^Flft fFF FT t TfaT^faF | FT ## ftfFi FF# f! | I 
#F1^#T I 

9. (i) F^TTT^FprTCfFTFT^tT TTfafFFF, 1960# STITT ^ 

3 % TTFTF fFFTF FfTTT 1 ^ TT^F F faff TfarjlT F^FTfl j F F'FT Ff^F F^FT# FtffT^faFt # F^rTTFf 
FTFT^fT I l TRF F FTClfFT FT F Tfa^faFt FT TfaT^TfF 

(ii) FRF F^FF Tfa^TT FptFTfr FTFT?#, Jjc# FRF | FF# Ft % I 

J 

1 0. tgr F^FFTf FTFTH^f FfafaFF, 1 968 # STTTT 2 F % F F# Ff^FF F^FT# FTFIFfaFT # FfT TT^F if FTTF- 
Tfafa fFFFF 4^T TT3F % faff Tfa^TT 6 fa I <T FTFT^T I fFF FF F TfaT^fflF | FT Tfarff^F FF?ft Ft | I 



4450 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASViNA 29, 1894 


[Part II — 


( 1 ) 


( (i) 2 ) 


11. qffqr q?qn"it trtqRfr qfqPi^H , 1 96 2 hef 3 % ^ trqt qjjRjt qtqr^fsqf qt qrtqr yq^q St 

srsft^r fqqqq qfrttr ter % fqq TfqqjR qjjqnrt qttrr$£t qrtqfqqr ^q it Tfsrt^frq | «tt qfin^rtFrq qqjft qf 1 

12. WfjTil 0 tflq l^^t qfqpR H , 1 9 6 1 q>t STITT 3%qfftq ^ qrff q^C(^7r> q^trttt qfqRfrrqr 3ft <T 3Tf^ TRT if 

t qrq tt^t % %tr Tfsn^n; w^rfr qrqRft i qr^qfqqr qq if qpqqjt^q jf qr qfqFjtjq qqqr qf ft 1 

13. *I^TTV qfqR^t wftrfnqn, 196 5 qftqRt 3% # qqt SJEtR q^qRt qfqRfjqt ift TT^TFTTT Tp'T 

fqqqq trwpt ^ % Ptcj Tfq^R q^Rf $ vrcifaF * q % Tf^jtfq m qqtft ni. 

HETT^ft I $ | 

14. (i) STfiFT BT| q^FfTt fttltl^ qfstfqqq, 1961 qft') 

STRT 3 % 5tH>r fTfEFT, fttfaq TIT, TtR % faq TfqqjR j TT*ft q-Rff qfqRfeqf 3ft qtfqq qr? TRI 

fffcnvft I yH TCaft* *q Jr qfq^frq g qr qfasftfq qqrft 

(ii) rftqR^t (rtsrq s&q [ q$ f i 

*6i4’R') qrfqvr qr?, Haw i J 

1 5. T4"r rtffnrt rrtqriEqt, qfqfqqq, 1 965 *Pt srra 3 q qtft q§t^p q^qqft frttrrsfcqr 3 fr ttr qtq ttr Jr 
% SEJM pTfjqq, RR qlffT TRq % faq qfq^R Bffjrft qTPTftfT 7R if Tfq^fq ft U] TfqqftlR wi q£ $ I 
qtrtRqt 1 


16. 


17. 


18. 


19. 


20 . 


21 . 


22. 


23. 


(i) qqrq qjjqrrft tftqrfft srfErfqqq, 1940 4ft snrr 9 
$ -crsfr-T fqqqq qfrqqt qqra qt^q % faro, rfbn^R q^- 
qqfr qmr*ft 1 

(ii)tm TfrrsjR n^rtt rwrreft, oftqqt qqrrq, qrqwn 
q^rq q^vrft qtfrr^r 'qfqf'Tqq, 1 9 6 1 sf bt q-TSto^ rj^q 
m q qqn t, q'r aKr 3 % qq>q fq'^q qy>q^ % fqa 
qftr^p; q?€tfr qrqr^^ft 1 

fc?qt r imr fq^qrfxq rpq# q^qrrfi mqr^fr qfafqqq, 
1925^qfTT4^ ifsftq fq^qq fq?qt % TfqfjK 
q^rCr mqT^fr i 


I Tqqff jf^qr q^rtt qrqnrfwr fr qfoqqrqqrq ttfh 
pqT^qfqqr ^tTfq^fqlqTTfq^WqqffVqf ^ 

qqt qjqiR mET^f^qr 3ft qftq^ qfqq 

it qr?qfq-q «q it Tfqfftfq % qr Tfq^ffrq q^fft 

q^t I 

^ qtqr^f>qt qr fq?qr qq rrsq 

it qr?qfqqr wi % Tfq^tfq % qr rT^f q qq?ft 
qf % 1 


qtqT, qqq iftq qrq qq qrsq t^q if qrq q^rqr^ q^qrrft 

mqr?^ wfqfqqq i960 6t qm 3 % qatq fqqqq 

o 

q'mT, qqq qH itq % fqq Tfq^n; q^qqff qfqr^€t 1 
qfq^: qr qqr fwrfTq qqq q^qqrt qtqi y-fr wfalwr, 
i949#«rra 3%q«ttqfq5qqqf^;%rqqTr3r^n: 
qqqrriftqtqn^t 1 


% q*ft qj9,4R q^yqft mqr?fcit 3 ft qfqr, qqq ^ 7 ; aftq 
qq TRq qr^T 1PT % TpJH^tfrq I qr Tfqf^t, 
fq qq*ft qt I | 

q qqt qjiRrqr q^qq^t qtqnifirqt 3ft h(u|<| 7, qq qfqq 
#q Jr qreqfqqr tr it Tf^tf q % tt Tfat^tfrq qquff 
Tit I I 


qtf¥%ff qpqft qWRTt qfqfqqq, 1 965 qff qrrr 3 ^ 
qqfq Pt^qt Trfyqit % fqq tfq^n: q^qrtd q>qr?jf 1 


q qrft qjrtqrqr q^qrrd qtqr^fsqr 3 ft qrfyqit qq ^q 
^tq Jr qreqfqq; it Efqtftfrq $ qr tfqejlfq qqjft 
Tit | 1 


fqjtt R q^T fqtqrirq qpqt q^qqft qtqr^t stfqfqqq, 
1923 qftqtrr 4%qqtqrq^qq^5R%fqqTf3t^R 
tr^qqft qrflRTt 1 


t tnfr qjtTqrqj qjqTtft qrqr^fsqt qt Tt qq Tt^q 
qq Jr qrtqfqqr ^q Jr qfqqftfrq | qt Tfqtfr^q qqtft 
Tit % 1 


(i) Pkw qqPt wtr qTfqqq, qtfqq qt? 1 q qrft q^rtt qtqr^ferr 3ft qrfqq qt® Jr qreq- 

( ii ) Tqtqtqr gqtq qVt qrfqR qtfqq qr? | fqqr q;q it qfqt^tfFq f qr qfq^tfrq qqrft q$ | 1 


[tf ^ Hoii/2/70-qrt wr#] 
wro iqtrqqrqq, qq qfqq 1 



Sec. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4451 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING 
(Department of Health) 

New Delhi, the 6th July 1972 

S.O. 3151.— In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the proviso to article 309 and clause (5) of article 148 
of the Constitution and after consultation with the 
Comptroller and Auditor General in relation to persons 
serving in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, 
the President hereby makes the following rules, 
namely: — 

1. Short title, commencement and extent. — (I) These 
rules may be called the Central Government Health 
Scheme, (Kanpur) Rules, 1972. 

(2) They shall come into force on the 17th July, 1972. 

(3) They shall extend to: — 

(i) such areas in Kanpur as the Central Govern- 
ment may, from time to time, by order made in 
this behalf, specify; 

(ii) all persons serving in connection with the 
affairs of the Union stationed and having their 
headquarters at Kanpur and residing in the 
areas aforesaid. 

Provided that the Central Government may, by 
order, exclude any class or category of persons 
from the scope of these rules, 

2. Instructions relating to Delhi, Bombay, Allahabad, 
Meerut and Calcutta Scheme to apply to Kanpur. — Not- 
withstanding anything contained in the Secretary of 
States' Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1938, the 
Central Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1944. or 
the All India Services (Medical Attendance) Rule?, 
1954, the instructions Issued from time to time by the 
Central Government relating to the Central Govern- 
ment Health Scheme as in force in Delhi, Bombay. 
Allahabad. Meerut and Calcutta shall apply mutatis 
vmtandis in respect of persons mentioned in clause 
(ii) of sub-rule (3) of rule 1; 

Provided that the Central Government may, from 
time to time, by order made in this behalf, modify the 
said Scheme in so far as it is applicable to Kanpur. 

[No. F.24-12/71-CGHS (P) .] 


F4T4T4 ?tTt qfV^nT f44t44 44T44 
(fTF«4 f44T4) 


6 jprrf 1972 

44 o ?fto 315 1: — 4fW4 47 snp'ST 3 09 
% T7?447 44T 1 48 % <4^ ( 5) 41TT 444 VrfTTtff 

471 JThVr 474% ftr S%7 'iTPTffa' ^P3T TTtSTT %4IT f%4T4 
% 471% 477% 4T% iqpHdl' % % f%4447 44T%4TT- 

4%VW47 % TTPm 477% % 47474 TT^Tfd f T4TT4TTT 

fHMPifVi f%Jpr 5n=n% f snrfa : — 

1. ®W47 41744 t%7 471% #4. — (l) % 

f%44 4(W0 F4TWT %DT4T (4M^,) Ph 4 HT4 41 

1972 47?4T4 4TW I 

( 2 ) % 17 4TfTT^ 1972 % 4Pp I 


( 3 ) ( 1 ) 47r4q7 % 44 MTf 47 fipjf %7?fr4 4 r 4TT 
444 444 T7 417 % 4TUT ipfy ; 

( 2 ) 4414 d-T^pr % sfrnpf 44T 44% 

477% ,Tr% F*fr sTfppfr 47 %t 41447 % f%qrT %% 
fil4% 41% 7F 444 444%X4 4% 4%7 %1 THH S44f % 
7?% % \ 

4 Pum %nf ; 

TTF^ %7fpT KT4TT7 4144 4T% 477 %'jfl 4T44T 

4% % 54p444'f 4 % 44 p444t 471 TpTpir % =444 477 % \ 


2. f^Tfr, 474%, S4T4T4T4, %T5 jfpr dFUFFTT 

Tim Trw'ifr sr^4%r 44 474447 47 ^4 4^ 

44471 414 7474 JTf44r4‘ ( Pdf^H 4p74%f) t444UHl 
1 93 8 %dT4 4444 (PdfTTjgr f4im f 4 41 

1 944 =4441 srPf'T '4T74ra 44in (N(4741 4t7^qi) 
fapUTUTTl 1954 % p4p44 p7"4T vfl 414 % 714 v% 
Tvjld rpHTiT jp-f %vjl4 4 J '+K 741744 41T41 47 41% % 
7744 444 47 JTI % f%% 44 4444 4% Pf7 4 PaHI", 474% 

>3 

? r 7T^T4rT 473 417 4X4477(1 % 4PJ t I 

4144447 Tp74if 4 4pff4 P444 1 % 44 p444 ( 3) 

% 4PJT (2) 4 fafal sqpm'f 47 444 I 

T74J 44414 44447 444 444 47 ?4 41% % 4I%4 
Jl O' 477 444 4DT4T 4 3fqi 447 44 “ 444 J 7 4 44f%4 
44T44 477 rpfefl f | 


[4o 44 2 4— 1 2/ 7 1— 741o 41o (%%%)] 


New Delhi, the 15 th July, 1972 

S.O. 3152. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the proviso to article 309 and clause ( 5) of article 148 
of the Constitution and after consultation with the 
Comptroller and Auditor General in relation to persons 
serving in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, 
the President hereby makes the following rules 
namely : — 

1. Short title, commencencent and extent. — (I) These 
rules may be called the Central Government Health 
Scheme (Calcutta) Rules. 1972. 

2. They shall come Into force on the 1st August, 1972. 

3. They shall extend to: — 

(I) such areas in Calcutta as the Central Govern- 
ment may, from time to time, by order made 
in this behalf, specify; 

(ii) all persons serving in connection with the 
affairs of the Union stationed and having their 
headquarters at Calcutta and residing in the 
areas aforesaid; 

Provided that the Central Government may by 
order, exclude any, class or category of persons from 
the scope of these rules. 



4452 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASV1NA 29, 1894 


[Part II— 


2. Instructions relating to Delhi, Bombay, Allahabad, 
Meerut and Kanpur Scheme to apply to Calcutta-Not- 
withstanrling anything contained in the Secretary ol 
States’ Services (Medical Attendance) Rules 1938, the 
Central Services (Medical Attendance) Rules. 1944, or 
the All India Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1954 
the instructions issued from time to time by the Govern- 
ment of India relating to the Central Governmen* 
Health Scheme as in force In Delhi, Bombay, Allah' 
bad. Meerut and Kanpur, shall apply mutatis mutandis 
in respect of persons mentioned In sub-rule (3) of rule. 

Provided that the Central Government may, from 
time to time, by order made in this behalf, modifv the 
said Scheme in so far as it is applicable to Calcutta. 

[No. F. 24-5/70-OGHS(P).] 
r£ ftFTfr, 1 5 HRTf, 19 7 2 

RTo5|To 3152. — HfRRTff ^ RTF?? 309 % 
qyRJR tfk TFRUR 14 8 % 7 3T ( 5 ) TFT 

rtm wfttm tt rrYr rfr fR rfrYr 

HNT TRteTI rY 7- vTOT fRRTR 4 RPR T^R RT% RhRlfkfT 
% (TRr-T it ktRRR 5rV ETFERTFIR if TTSFI RTR % 
Tp^fffR RR^FT YttrYtTrIH fRRR RRTR I , RTRR : 

1. RfsFR WYPT, RFTR 5rV rYrT. — (l) R 
YlRE %RtYr TRTTRR eYhRI (rMRtU) YtRETRRT, 
1972 RY RTR I 

(2) if 1 TFPH, 1972 4" RTR fYr I 

( 3 ) ?rtY rYrt tr w ?ftRY 1 

(i) rur-ht % ^ R^ttr rrtr 

RRR RRR *F" RTRBT HrY RF% 

Rt ; 

(ii) R 7 ? TFRRtY RTRf if HR Rift crYpT 
RRT fHR% RWRR RHRHT R f Rk 
HT RRT WIT R -Rt T| ^ ; 

RRTH %rYr TFRTT fRRV R1 TFT WTRT % fRRl" RR 
RRRT irrY rY ^R YtRRT tY RkfR R RRR R R* | 

2- fk'-ff, RfR^ , FHTRTR1 R, 4 <4 RY 7 " RHR< RERRT 
R RTRYePT fSRTR 4 RURUT T 7 " RTR RTrV I 7 T?R RfRR 

C\ 

RRTu (fHfRRHT R^RR?) fERRTRRY 1 93 8 Y^tR RRTR 
(YRfRTRT RfYRRt) , YtRETRRY, 1 9 4 4 RRRT RYlPT RFRYt 
RRH t (fRfRtRT RkRR?) YTRRTRRt, 1 954 % ^RR |rx 
YfThY, iHRf, ^RTflRTR *FZ RlT RTETR R HR RwYr 
FTFRR RtRRT R R^R R %RtYr R^RF - TFT RRR RRR 
T 7 HITT rY JpfT fZRT EH TR YlRR R TT YtRR ( 3 ) RfRf^R 
rYrY RR RTRUHR RfrRRR H%H RTF ?TrY I 

TFR! %R?Yr R 7 R I R RRR RRR RR RR RfRRT R RRTR 
RR RTTtTT TFT RRRRT R RtrYrR RR tlTRRT R RkRiYR 
RiR RRRY t I 

[Ro tnKo 24-5/70-ToTRloR'to (RtfR) ] 


New Delhi, the 17 th August 1972 

S. 0.3153. — Whereas in pursuance of the provisions 
ol clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Indian 
Medical Council Act, 1956 (102 of 1956), Dr. Ramanlal 
K. Desai, MD. DTM&H (London), FCCP, FICA, (New 
York). Kanpith. Surat-1, has been elected by the Soul! 
Guirat University to be a member of the Medico 
Council of India with effect from A he 8th September, 
1972; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of 
sub-section (1) of section 3 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby directs that Dr, Ramanlal K. 
Desai, whose name appears at Serial No. 36 under the 
heading elected under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of 
section 3 in the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Health, No. F.5-13/59-MI, dated 
the 9th January, I960, shall continue to be a member 
of the Medical Council of India for a further period 
of five years or until his successor is elected, which- 
ever is longer with effect from the 8th September, 
1972. 

iNo. F. 4-33/71-MPT.] 
P. C. ARORA. Under Secy. 

Rf 1 7 SPIRT, 19 72 

TRo 5TTo 3 153.— RH : RFfPlR fRfRFTT Tf^ 
rMrRR 1 956 ( 1 956 TT 102) tY ETPR 3 

tY rr-stft ( 1 ) % ir? ( 7 3r) % sphtpr r, 

RT 0 RRHUTH %o YRTe, RRo ifto, Rt ocftoRR 0 u g o 
rrRo (RrjjR), rnpoTftoRt'o, rrtpo 5qx^o Rto rr 0 (p^rpe), 
TIRtYr, ^RT-1 TT RfRU R3FTR fRURfR^RTRR §1FT 8 
fRTFRT 1 9 7 2 R RPhYr fkfeRl TT R^-R 
fWT RRT % I 

5RT : RR RTR RftjfRRR tY STFT 3 tY RR-RRT ( 1 ) 
% RWff TT RRTFM RfY %??Yr R7R7K RfTTTRT fTFl 
YffY I fT TTo TRRRTR %° klk, fkffTT RTR RFR R^FTT 
% FTTUTR RRFTR tY RfRRRRI RR4T mgo 5- 1 3/5 9-fRo I 
fTRlRT 9 HRRTY, 1960 *T RFT 3 TY RRRFT ( l) % RR 
(J?) % RtkR fRRffRR ¥lYRT % RwTRR RiR RWT 3 6 TT 
H[V'lf 7 s|'i ^ 8 fRr| 4i|v ; J 9 7 2 Y RTR kk RTR RR rY RRfsi 

5 PUTT HR RT RR% RtTHftmrY RT ffiRfRR RfY |T RTRT, 
R> Rt RTR R 5 T, rY t^R I 

[Ro Rio 4—3 3/7 1— T^RotfToRto] 

RRTR RRT RTFT, RRT RfRR | 


(Department of Health) 

New Delhi, the 10 th August 1972 

S.O. 3154. — Whereas the Central Government have 
In pursuance of the provisions of clause (f) of section 
3 of the Dentists Act, 1948 (16 of 1948) nominated the 
following persons to be members of the Dental Council 
of India with effect from the 5th August, 1972: — 

1. Dr. Vimala Sud, BDS, MSD, Professor of Dental 
Surgery, Jawaharlal Institute of Post-graduate 
Medical Education and Research, Pondicherry 



Sec. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972,'ASVINA 29, 1894 


4453 


2. Major General R, N, Dogra, Director, Dental 

Health Services, Army Medical Directorate, 
New Delhi. 

3. Dr. J. D. Kapadia. BDS, FICD, President, Indian 

Dental Association, ‘Nataraj’, 25, Luz Church 
Road, Mylapore, Madras-4. 

4. Dr. S. P, Gupta, C-G, Vivekanandpuram, 

Lucknow. 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 3 of the said 
Act, the Central Government hereby makes the follow- 
ing further amendment in the notification of the Gov- 
ernment of India in the late Ministry of Health No. 
F.3-2/62-MII, dated the 17th October. 1962, namely: — - 

In the said notification, under the heading "Nomi- 
nated under clause (f)” of section 3, for the entries 
against serial Nos. 2, 3, 4 and 5, the following entries 
shall be substituted, namely: — 

2. Dr. Vimala Sud, BDS, MSD, Professor of 

Dental Surgery, Jawaharlal Institute of Post- 
graduate Medical Education and Researcn, 
Pondicherry. 

3. Major General R, N. Dogra, Director, Dental 

Health Services, Army Medical Directorate, 
New Delhi. 

4. Dr. J. D. Kapadia, BDS, FICD, President, Indian 

Dental Association, ‘Nataraj.’ 25, Luz Church 
Road, Mylapore, Madras-4. 

5. Dr. S. P. Gupta, C-6, Vivekanandpuram, 

Lucknow. 

[No. V, 12013/3/72-MPT.] 
V. S. TALWAR, Dy. Secy. 

(dTRdd IdRTd) 

d£fddT, 10RRM, 1972 


tTR-o sffo 3154. — Id: dd fdfdrRT RfRfdRR, 
1948 ( 1948 TT is) ^ NTT 3 % (d)% RPddT 

dr RdRdl dk f T %-dTd R^dd rrddddTTT 5 4RTCT, 
1972 R fd^dfdfdTd SRfdTRf FT Rfld dT d-d fdjdrRT 
NfTdd dT Rdd Rdtdtd ddft t : 


1 . TTo fdddT dlo vTo fTtfo, ttjto nrRo t[o, 
4* — i UFR fdfd-RT % Rn>RTTd, 
ddfOdld rdlddtdL fdfdfRT fdTSTT 
*ffL RRRSTR RdRd, RlfTs^Lt I 

2. Jrsn; ddrd rtt° rro tItd, 
fdTdd, dR RTTFUd RRT<t 
Rddf ddr fdfdcdr fdddrdd df i 

3 . TTo d° ddlfTtlT dtodfo TTRo r rrcgo inf o 
dto, R5R4T RTddVd dd RR, ' ddf l d ' 

2 5, d# Lt*, 4dldtr RTTR-4 

4. STo tTRo RdT, 

Rf— 6, fRRdldd^LR, dddd I 


dd: ; Rd, ddd RldfdRR ROT 3 dT RRRLd ddd 
ffT kdld RddlT VREURd Rnd RTdTL % PdTOTd 

RRTdR df wfiPJW Ro it^o 3 - 2 / 62-RRo II fddtd 1 7, 
RdH'dr, 19 62 R RH? dk fdTdfdftdd RdlHd dddT ft, 
Hlhd : — 

ddd df-jgddr r “rili 3 ^ dd (d) % srrrr 

RRtHTR" vfpfk dR R5RI 2 3, 4, srk 5 dT dfdfetfr % fdR 
fdPdfdPdd didfeRT Tt$\ drrrtft, RTRR: — 

2 . Tlo Htdrll RR, dlo sT° IXR O , ITRo TTRo dfo, 

dd tft fdfkdr d aiwqd, 
ddWRTd dTTddTdL fdfddT frreiT- 
rrrrtr RPdid, qrfddLr 1 

3. RRT RdLd dido Vdo dRrd, 

fdTdd, dd PdTFdd RTF , 

RWdf RdT fdfdcRT fdTdPdd, df feed! | 

4. flo dfo flo ddTfdiR, d[o ffo PRo, 

Rdo Rifo rTo ik , Rstrw, rpcrVr dd Rd, 
'dddd’, 25, dt Ltd, 4dTRTL 

R3TR— 4 I 

5. do ITRo (fto RRTT, 

lft-6, Idddddd^LR, ddddi I 

[R5dTdd :dto 12013/3/72-TRo dto ito] 
dTo PRO dddl?, RR Rfdd I 


(Department of Health) 

New Delhi, the 7th September 1972 

S.O. 3155. — -In pursuance of clause (d) of rule 2 
of the Indian Medical Council Rules, 1957, and in 
supersession of the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Health, Family Planning, 
Works, Housing and Urban Development (Department 
of Health) No. 4-17/68-MPT, dated the 24th March, 
1971, the Central Government hereby appoints Dr. 
H.N.S. Grewal, Deputy Director, Health, Regional 
Office, Patiala as Returning Officer for the conduct of 
election of a member under clause (c) of sub-section 
(1) of section 3 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 
1956 (102 of 1956) in the State of Punjab. 

[No. F. 4-27/71-MPT.] 
(jdTP«T fdnd) 
di feedt, 7 fRdRL, 1972 

dTo Rio 3155. — RTFftR fdfdrRT dfdd dt 
fdRRTddl, 19 5 7 % fddR 2 ^ RTR 

(d) dT RRRLd dUt ftr RRT RRR RLdR d 
pariPSR, M r<4 l i fRRtdR, fTlrfd dk RTRTR, qk ddL 



4454 


THE G AZE TTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II 


feFTH FT srfsTg^TTT feo 4- 1 7/6 S-TR# °FT° 

feRTF 24 RT=t, 1 97 1 FT fespfe FRT |T fefefe *RFR 
tTRFfRT TTo tt^o it?to ir^o TFRT, FFfefeHF FTTBR 
srfeffeF fr^pt TfeFFTT Ft tfr tpr if HRfefe ffefFFrr 
qfRR RfefeiPT, 1956 ( 1956 FT 102 ) FT HRT 3 Ft 
HTSTRT ( l) % WPT (r) % TRRT ^ 4R4 FT FTTF 

frt ftRfeR TrffeFRt % ft it ferFT F# | i 

[feo To : 4-27/71-tnro t TT o £to] 


New Delhi, the 8th September 1972 

S.O. 3156. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (2) of section 11 of the Indian Medical 
Council Act, 1956 (102 of 1956), the Central Govern- 
ment, after consulting the Medical Council of India, 
hereby makes the following further amendment in 
the First Schedule to the said Act, namely: — 

In the said Schedule, after the entry relating to the 
South Gujarat University, the following entry shall 
be inserted, namely: — 

“Meerut Bachelor of M.B.B.S. Meerut” 

University Medicine and 
Bachelor of 
Surgery 

[No. V.11015/30/72-MPT.3 
R f fee#, 8 fHRRF 1972 

FTo STTo 3156- RRRR ffefFcRT if#? TTfST- 

fetUI, 1956 ( 1 956 FT 102) FtSTRT II FtRT-aTRT ( 2) 
gm 5RH HfeRfet FT SRR ff %Rrfe TRFR RRRfe 
ferfFcRT TffeR R FTTH F# % FRTfr RTTJRT RFR 
FffefRRT -FT THT T TTH sftT THT'cTR F# f ; 

trqfe — 

"3FR SP^ff it, Rffe F RTRtr fepfeaiRR fe TUR-fitR 
srfefe fe RR feTRffeffeH Tfeffe TF # HR ; FRTH : — 

“iRF feR#RTRR RRSR ?TR uiroBrtoqfetnTo iRF 
fefefRR 

Ihrf srfe 
RRft 

[RcTocfto 1 101 5/30/72-^ofTofto] 


S.O. 3157 . — Whereas in pursuance of the provisions 
of clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 3 of the In- 
dian Medical Council Act, 1956 (102 of 1956), Dr. C.K. 
Jayarama Panicker, Professor of Bacteriology, Medi- 
cal College, Calicut-8, has been elected by the Uni- 
versity of Calicut, to be a member of the Medical 
Council of India with effect from the 19th May, 1972; 

Now, therefore in pursuance of the provisions of 
sub-section (1) of section 3 of the said Act, the Cen- 
tral Government hereby makes the following further 
amendment in the notification of the Government of 
India in the late Ministry of Health No. 5-13/59-MI, 
dated the 9th January, 1960, namely: — 

In the said notification, under the heading “Elected 
under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 3”, 
after serial No. 45 and the entries relating thereto, 


the following serial number and entries shall be 

inserted, namely: — 

“46. Dr. C.K. Jayarama Panicker, Professor of 

Bacteriology, Medical College, Calicut-8” 

[No. 4-33/71-MPT.] 

FTo srfo 3157, — TR: RRrffe ffefFRT 
TfeTR fMrFT, 195 6 (l956 FT 102) 

Ft HRT 3 Ft FT-HRT (l) % TFR (f) % 

TTRRT FT TTRHRTT F7R F1#FR feTRfeSTTRR R 
fefeFU FTfeR, FRFtTT- 8 % fefeRT fe=TTR % TTRTTF 
dlo ifeo Fo HFHT TffeTR FT 1 9 df, 1972 fe HRrffe 
ferfecTT TfFT? FT HFR fRFTffeR feRT | I 

TTT', HT, H7T HfefeTT FT -JTF 3 Ft HTSTRT ( l) 

% RTF# FT FRTTR F# f<r F#T TRFR ^RTTRT 
RRR TTFR fe TTlf RTFR TRRR Ft TTfsT^RdT RW 
5-1 3/59-fdo^ fedTF 9 HR#, 1960 if RTF STR 
fRRffeffeR fefetHR FT ft I 5RTH : — 

7 

FIT FTfe^FTT “hTRT 3 Ft TUTRT ( 1 ) % 

(•af ) F TTJtd fefTferr 'fefrf % TTRdd FF TW 4 5 
RdRfRT TfeURT % dTT fdPTfdfe'd FF Fd-TT sfk 
jfefRTT FH# FR : — 

“4 6. dTo dt° FFTFT TpTFT, 

^FTF-fedR TTTSFT'TF, 
rrfeFd Fifed, FrfetFT-8. 

[do do 4 - 33 / 71 -^ 0110 ^ 0 ] 
ddo rrq-0 Tfo f TRTTf, FT dfed I 

ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 22nd August, 1972. 

S.O. 3158. — Whereas bv the notification of the Go- 
vernment of India in the late Ministry of Health No. 
13-1/62-MI, dated the 26th July. 1962. the Central Go- 
vernment has directed that the Medical qualification, 
M.D., C.M. awarded by the University of Mcgill, Mon- 
tereal, Canada shall be a recognised medical qualifica- 
tion for the purposes of the Indian Medical Council 
Act, 1956 (102 of 1956); 

And whereas Dr. Cecilia Leslie Kuloy, who possesses 
the said qualification and who is also registered as a 
medical practitioner in her own country is for the time 
being attached to the Holy Family Hospital, New Delhi 
for the purposes of charitable work; 

Now. therefore, in pursuance of the proviso to sub- 
section fl) of section 14 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby specifies — 

(i) a period of two years from the date of publica- 

tion of this Order in the Official Gazette, or 

(ii) the period during which Dr. Cecilia Leslie Kuloy 

is attached to the said Holy Family Hospital, 

New Delhi whichever is shorter, as the period 



Sec. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972'ASVINA 29, 1894 


4455 


to which the medical practice by the aforesaid 
doctor shall be limited. 

[No. F. 19-39/71-MPT.] 


4144 

2 2 44T4, 197 2, 

rr 4 oqU 9158 — 4T 4 ITT F 44^4 fTT E? 4 

44144 F 26 44F». 1 97 2 FT To 16-l/ 

4 2-fT o-l % ITT %*4l4 T^FTT 4 frFT £ fF 4Tnfl4 
FfTf? 4T fffT- 4T 4faf444, 1 9 5 6 ( 1 9 5 6 FT 102) F 
4TT44f F fTT tYttTttY 4TT 4tf44, TFtYtT TUT 4T4 
1T4° fYo TToTTo f4fF=4T 44 TT 444 frfF'FT T|TI 
|YnY ; 

tYt 44. FT o TfTfTTT %*4T F4T # F~T f44F 4T4 TFT 
TifTT £ 44T 3ft 444*4 frfTTTT «fY f tYt FT 44T«f FT4 
srfmf % far* Puffth ttfY Ff4HY shtttt, t# fc*FY 

% qrq- 4*5U4 £ I 

qV 44, FT4 qpjf444 fY TFT- 4 Fl T44FT ( l) 
% I^TF F 414 (t) FT 4TF4 TFT tit %^Yq- qvqqq 
HT^Fl — 

( 1 ) TTTTTY TTF7F 4 STFlfFT 4T4 fY f4fa 4 

ft 44 fY FTfa 4F 54441 

(2) 44 qqfil Ft 44 TF TTo irfftfiTFl %EfY 
FFt£ £hY 4)f4HY 4T44TH, Tt fcF=fY F 
4T4 4TF£ tt4 £, fY Ft FT fft 44 qFfq 
fqfdfe'F: TFTt £, fwt ^fYtT Flo 4fsFH 
TfTTT F T 4F4 I 

[4o qo TF J 1 9-39/7 1-ITToTYoFto] 


New Delhi, the 26th August, 1972 

S.O. 315:1. — Whereas by the notification ol the 
Government of India in the late Ministry of Health No, 
17-2/59-MI, dated the 1st April, 1960, the Central 
Government has directed that the Medical qualification, 
"M.D." granted toy the University of Toronto, Canada 
shall be a recognised medical qualification for the pur- 
poses of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (102 of 
195G1J 

And whereas Dr. Walter Gilar v Anderson, who posses- 
ses the said qualification and who is also unroled as 
medical practitioners in his own country Is for the time 
being attached to the Masini sewa Mandal. Malwa 
Church Council, Ratlam, Madhya Pradesh for the pur- 
poses of teaching and charitable work; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of clause (c) of the 
proviso to sub-section (1) of section 14 of the said Act, 
the Centra] Government hereby specifies — 

(i) a further period of two years with effect from 
the 19th March, 1972. or 


fill the period during which Dr, Walter Gilary And- 
erson is attached to the said Masini Sewa Man- 
dal. Malwa Church Council, Ratlam, whichever 
Is shorter, as the period to which the medical 
practice by the aforesaid doctor shall be limited. 

[No. V.1101G/15/72-MPT.] 


Tt-tY, 2(3 4 TFT, 1972 

rrffc 4103159-44: TFT TTF1T ^ 44^4 F4TF4 
441*14 241 1 444, 1 960 fY SlffPJTTr 5° 17-2/59 
rrqo Spf 0 4PT F-tYf 4TFTT £ fqqw fqqi £ fF 4FTrfYq 
fTfF^TT Tf T 4T qftrf444, 1956 ( 1 95 6 FI 102) % 
441441 F fT - ^ FtTlFtt fqsqf44TH4, F4T4T 41T1 5TF4 
‘'ttToyYo'’ fiTTF frfF*4T 4F4T 4P4 fFfF74T 

FU 44: 4T 0 4FTT fq^rfY R^TfTn fT fF4% 414 
TT4 4T4T £ 441 FT 444 £4 4 qY itf fFfF?4F F FT 4 
TFYF4 % fFiiTl 4YT 44Y4 FT4 % 44'lTRT F f44 fFFgTF 
4T44t 44 r 44TT’, 4I'-4T 44 fYIt el , vfrFT4, 4^4 S14F % 
4T4 4E45 f I 

44:, m, 4T4 4fElf444 fY tJKT 1 4 fY TTRITT ( 1 ) 
F 4 •'•TF F 414 (4) FI 4144 F7;4 ftr %^Yt HVFTT 

RT^srrr : 

( l) 19 414, 1972 ^414 2 44 F^ 5T4fST FY 
444T 

( 2 ) 44 44ftl F> 44 4F 4T 0 TTeST f44TY t^-gTRq , 
4f44Y 44T 4tr?4, 4154T 44 FTffPT, T44T4 
F 4T4 4TF4 744 4T 41 F4 ^'l 4f 44f4 
fTfffrT'F F^fl %, f444 ^4fT4 4To 4f4F4 
^fe4 FT 4Fit I 

[40 4T: 4I0 11016/15/7 2-440 4 I 0 jIo ] 


New Delhi, the 6th September 1972 

S.O. 3160. — Whereas by the notification of the 
Government of India in the late Ministry of Health 
No. S.O. 2446 dated the 23rd July, 19G2, the Central 
Government has directed that the Medical qualifica- 
tion, "M.D.” grunted by the University of George- 
town, Washington, shall be a recognised medical qua- 
Jification for the purposes of the Indian Medical 
Council A.ct, 1956 (102 of 1956); 

And Whereas Dr. Eileen Niedfleld, who possesses 
the said qualification and is registered as medical 
aractioner in her own country, is lor the time being 
sttaclied to the Holy Family Hospital, Mandar, 
Ranchi District, for the purposes of teaching, re- 
search and charitable work; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of clause (c) of the 
proviso to sub-section (1) of section 14 of the said 
Act, the Central Government hereby specifies— 

(i) a further period ending with the 31st Decem- 
ber, 1972, or 



455 6 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Pari II— 


(ii) the period during which Dr, Eileen 

Niedfleld is attached to the said Holy Family 
Hospital, Mandar, Ranchi District, whichever 
is shorter, as the period to which the medical 
practice by the aforesaid doctor shall be 
limited. 

[No. V, 11016/17/72-MPT.] 
Q. M. H. ZINJANT, Dy, Secy. 

dt 8 fRRRT, 19 72 

44 o RTo 3160- — ITT: HITT RTHT % 

R4FT4 4ft 23 1962 

4ft RftTgTHT HO 2 44 6 FRoftto 5P7 %?f[4 TPTT 
% faftw pFTT £ fT HTTcftH fftfTORT 4^4^ RfafTOTR, 
1956 ( 1956 411- 102) % TTlTdl % fft'T RfdHfHft HT4 
Wi TORH, RTfftRTO ffRT 4TH FRo ijo fftfTORT RifTT 
ifFT fftfft?RT HflRT rfpfV ; 

4f|T 4H: TOo Idl'd Hfalft^T 4ft fdH% 4TR TOTH 42 TT 
ft rV 3fr 414% ftH Jf fftf%cR4T % R4 R RjftjR ft, f^TT, 
kPJHHFT Fd H4TH TIT % 447441 % fan; faR^TR ftfar 
RfaRI ZlfaTR, RfRT, faRT tIhT % RTH RTRS ft I 

set:, tot, to RfafrorR 4 ft Hirr 1 4 4 ft hrhtt ( 1 ) 

%47?54T%HTR (h) 44 H^RTR 4Tft ^v^zj RT44R 
5cEJffRT — 

( 1 ) 31 fcTORT, 1 972 44 HRRT $tft RTRf HTRrfa 

4T4fsT HH4T 


( 2 ) TOT HRfsT 4ft 5JR 441 4To |RtH ftfarftrT ftfa) 

Riffafr frfdiTOT, tot?-, frorr tHI % tor 

oft ht 4tr |r, 4f surfer fafafctR 4rofr ft, from 5^44 

4To RfsRTR 4f4TOT 4T jfaij I 

[Ro4o4to 11016/17/7 2— FRoTToRto J 

[45.o itro itro fTOTOfr 44 Rffaf] 


Ministry of education and social welfare 

(Archaeological Survey of India) 

Archaeology 

New Delhi, the 14 th August 1972 

S.O. 3161. — Whereas by notification of the Govern- 
ment of India in the Ministry of Education & Youth 
Services S.O. 2717 dated the 28th June, 1969, published 
In Part II, Section 3, sub-section (11) of the Gazette of 
India dated the 12th July 1969, the Central Government 
gave notice of its Intention to declare the ancient monu- 
ment specified in the Schedule below to be of national 
importance. 

And whereas no objections have been received to the 
making of such declaration. 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (3) of section 4 of the Ancient Monu- 
ments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1968 
(24 of 1958), the Central Government hereby declares 
the said ancient monument to be of national Import- 
ance. 


The Schedule 


12 345 6 7 8 9 ion 


SI. State District Tahsil Locality Name o£ Revenue plot Area Boundaries Owner- Remarks 

No, mounment numbers to bo. ship 

included urdor 
protection 


Himachal 

Lahaul Spiti 

Tabo 

Budhist Mo- 

Survey Plot 

15 Bis- North : — 

Village 

Prado sh. 

and Spiti 


nastery toge- 

No. 16 as 

was and Waste land 

properly. 



ther with ad- 

shown on the 

15 Bis- 





jacent area 
comprised in 
Survey Plot 
No. 16 as 

attached plan. 

wasi. East : — 

Waste land 

South : — 





shown on the 


Survey plot 





attached plan. 


Nos. 1, 4, 5, 
6 and 12, 







West : — 







Survey plot 
Nos. 13, 14, 
15 and 17. 



[No. F. 2 / 1 /HP/ 1 / 69 -M.] 

A. B. CHAND1RAMANI, 
Joint Educational Adviser. 


Sec. 3(H)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4457 


IWT WIT WWTW TTPriW TRTTWW 
WW5TW fwWTW ) 

(T^) 

Wf fo^, 14 SEEP, 1972 

WTo WTo 316 1. — T=f: WPW % TEfTTW fcwk 
12 Tj/Tk, 1969 % WET 2, ’T*? 3, WTO^(2) *T 
TTTTfBTT fWT rETT TTWEET, WT7W WEFTT kT 

WW TTo WTo 2717, fcwk 28 op, 19 69 


aP7 ^Ejfk 6 'ti|7 ^ fftw wt *k WW’JWt W fwfife MMIw 
•^6 i ' T' 4W Hn'w 47T ETpET ^ <4 % WPTRT wft 

?jwwt fr «ft i 

wk ET: EWt WTTWT T 7 vfT TTf WTW'T wtet w^lf 

F t I 

SET, EET, TTTWk PTTTWT cETT >JTTcEWk tftT 

■sr^j-rr wftrfWWE, 1 958 ( 1 958 SET 24) 4?V STT^T 4 
W4PT ( 3) 5 ITT TETW WpRWt WT TRp WE% §it, %kk 
WEPTT rr^pi WWrT TTETET ’TTTT41 4?> WfiET WT 

Wtfaw TPrft | I 


?EpWt 


WE 

TF7W 

kCTT 

trwTw 

TWET 

TWTTWr 4TT WET 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

1 

P^NH W^T 

"i i ?fkr wk 

wfcfr 

WTf 

h'mh H4“i i it fesET wir ww c ttrt testt 16 


*1 TTWTiW WoEW &5T W%T sfrff fWfR 


WTSTW % W#T WfrwfTRT ^ 

SffW 

Tfkrrfr 

T4lfa<4 

fecquft 

srr% ^ ii ^rwr 





7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

weft ww w fwwrrf *nft ww 

1 5 fwTTWT Wk 1 5- 

wttt wwt '<jfw ^-w^it wfw wfirw 

TTTW W^rffT 


CWTT WWT 1 6 

fwWWFWt 

WW 'PIT WT 1, 4, 5, 6 Wk 




12 wkwE WW 'TTTT W1 13, 
14, 15 sfk 17 


[Wo TTCRo 2/l/tTW/'ft/l/6 9TTW] 

wt wo wo wkt" 7 tweet, 
wwef frrwT WoTnjwnT i 



4458 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Paiit II— 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND 
BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 23rd August 1972 

S.O. 3162. — The Central Government hereby accept 
the resignation of Smt. Ammu Swaminathan from 
membership of the Advisory Panel of the Central 
Board of Film Censors, Madras with immediate effect. 

[No. F.11/4/72-FC.] 


Ilk TTITT R41TT 

hi fcrsft, 2 3 19 72 

nrfo tfio 3102. — h T 4>l J ipTTPT 

TT fami rffpr sflf % RTF! VFT?— 


[wit To 1 1/4/72 -"Hm (*ff)] 


New Delhi, the 30th August 1972 

S.O. 3163. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
Rule 10 of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 
1958, the Central Government has been pleased to 
appoint Shri Luxman Udyavar, Superintendent. Cen- 
tral Board of Film Censors, as officiating Assistant 
Regional Officer, Central Board of Film Censors, 
Madrsa with effect from 16th May, 1972 to 3rd June, 
1972 (afternoon), vice, Shri D. Ramalingam granted 
leave. _ 

[No. 2/41/72-FC.] 
S. N. MITAL, Under Secy. 


30 1972 

opT 0 WT o 316 3— •'Pdfuct ( *t"’T T ) , 19 5 8 

% fwr i o tpr tt setet 


fnr, TTJFt T «fl USBT'T TITBIT snffofF. TiVFT 
fr^r Tii it i 6 *rf. 1972 r 3 wr. 1972 
(STUTpr) TtMTTTo ■BhfpPh. fThTf ETT-ftfr hi pf, 
% PTR- T r qiTTfTTT RpTHTf: TrTfhT vftmTr. 
f'fBR f(W T Tit , FTIU fTTTT Iw £ I 

[RhiTT 2/41/72-UT (hi) ] 


rTTo rrffo ftTBT. tHP' hffiT | 


MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS 
ORDER 

New Delhi, the 26 th August 1972 

S.O. 3164. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-rule (2) of rule 9, clause (b) of sub-rule (2) of 
rule 12 and sub-rule (1) of rule 24 of the Central Civil 
Services (Classification, Control and Appeal), Rules, 
1965. and in supersession of the notification of the Gov- 
ernment of India in the Ministry of Communications 
No. S.R.O. 631-B. dated the 28th February, 1957, the 
President hereby directs that — 

(1) in respect of the posts in the General Central 
Service, Class II, specified in column (1) of 
Part I of the Schedule to this Order, the autho- 
rity specified in column (2) shall be the 
Appointing Authority and the authority speci- 
fied in column (3) shall be the Disciplinary 
Authority in regard to the penalties specified 
in column (4); 

(2) in respect of the ports in the General Central 
Service, Class III and the General Central 
Service, Class IV, specified in column' (1) of 
Part II of the said Schedule the authority 
specified in column (2) shall be the Appoint- 
ing Authority and the authorities specified in 
columns (3) and (5) shall be the Disciplinary 
Authority and Appellate Authority respec- 
tively in regard to the penalties specified in 
column (4). 


Schdule 

Part I 

GENERAL CENTRAL SERVICES, CLASS II 


Authority competent to impose penalties and penalties which it may 
Description of Post Appointing authority impose with reference to item number in rule n. 


Authority 


Penalities. 


(i) 


(2) 


(3) 


(4) 


Ain t i tc j ' ivi O fi.'Cr 


Wireless Adviser to the Govern- Wireless Adviser to the Govern- 
ment of I ndia ment o f I ndia 


All 



Sac. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA <XiOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 4459 



Part n 

General Central Service, Class III 

~rs 

r- 1 " ""' r ^ 

Description of Post. 

Authority competent to impose penalties and 
penalties which it may impose with reference 
Appointing Authority to item numbers in Rule 11 ) 

Appallate Authority 


Authority Penaltle .- 


I 

2 3 4 

5 

TECHNICAL POSTS 

1 . Technician Grade I 

2. Technician Grade 1 1 

3 . Draftsman. 

Wireless Adviser to the Govern- Wireless Adviser to the Govern- All 
■ ment of India. ment of India. 

Secretary to the Go- 
vernment of India. 

non-technical POSTS 

1 . Accountant . . 1 

2. Upper Division Clerk 

3 . Lower Division Clerk. 

4 . Steno-typist 

5 . Driver 

Wireless Adviser to the Govern- Wireless Adviser to the Govern- All 
► ment of India. ment of India. 

Gdnsfol Central Strike, Class IV 

Secretary to the Go- 
vernment of India. 

X. Daftry 

а. Peon . , . I 

3 . Chowkidar . . 1 

4. Mazdoor , 

5 . Mall . . . j 

б. Sweeper. , 

EntWeer-in-Cnrge Monitoring Engineer-in-Charge Monitoring All 
Organisation. Organisation. 

Wireless Adviser to 
the Government of 
India. 


[No. C. IIOI2/2/72-Vlg.] 
A. S. BHATNAGAR, Jt. Secy, 


TWIT 5 TW 1 WT 

'I C 26 1972 

TTo *Ro3164.-TT^^r, ( JT'ffci < U T, fHd^UI *ftT5Pfhl) f^PTR, 1965%faTPT 9 % 3T-fawtf ( 2 ), 

f5=nPT 1 2 % ( 2 ) % gw (ty) srh; ftUR 2 4 % 3T'ftFR( 1 ) JRT SWrl SlfatPlf W SRVi ^fTTct ^ tPTl WTcT TOR, 

RoJfTTofRoWo 631-*ft, (TTTte 28'?TUlf)\ 1 9 5 7 Sffs'Wtl ’TUt gftrr^gTU fat*! & $ f% : — 

( l) W STT^W ^ 5pJ^ % WF1 1 FTR ( 1 ) $ faffrfire ETEfRtJ) *WT, *nf II % TSf % ERR $ Rim ( 2) 
if WAfim: Trfsmfr Puiftcf snftmTl $)rt $fk rtr ( 3) ir fTfaftre sriftmTt ( 4) it fafafc^ 
uirftcpff % nmrmr ir snftrfrrct 5 >tt, 

(2) tpi % wft ( 1) ir firfafrw nisnur for. ^r III v'r Rrsrmr itoT *pt IV % 

qff % ii FRE (2) snfsraKl fa^farl TlfuwO ^FtT »TT? UR*T ( 3 ) 5lk ( 5 ) if fVfdfrcJ 

sriftiwfl ( 4) ir fafafaw inrfeFff % iwu ir ’Pin: srunrnr mfEmfr utx sEffa snfErwT 5m i 





WT II 

TOrrr’T ?mi, >wV III 


0) 







i. aMfftwrws I "j 
■z. II 

3. srn'wp- J 

1 wtt?t w f * 

y ntwzv 

»tm +h+w % ^r 
^T fTrfTF 

»nft 

1^7, ^rer *RRT 

]. ?wwtt "1 

2. 'J^r *r®rt f*i (mti 

3. f»rcT ^ Prfw J 

4. 

5. ir^rc J 

wmr«^K%^ 1 TP' 
y *TTT?WR 

wrt it % afaR 

+R1T3+R 

^r»fr 

t i«fl"M 


r-i^fV'T w i i <1 


vrifr^t wftRtfm if *wt? srrfa- 
ttitI wr ? mftttt fa^? m wfufrfe 
(fwr 1 1 % *T 7 f % *TS*f if ) W.r 


trff^ srrfjmrV 


q-rfBTTpr't 


mffwt 



3®C 3(fi)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA- OCTOBER 21, 197 2/ AS VINA 29, 1894 4461 


rpttr IV 


tK^Tf^ror faijfaA snfsnFTfV 9i ifem Rftrftf'pT ij- rwr srrftprrr^ sitNpt srrfsRTf)' 

R*rr I mfercrr fafjjf wz sTfgftftR ( fwr 

1 1 T RTl % R7*? if) tt *r%rn- 


TrfaTTcl wrf?w 


(1) 


(2) (3) (4) (5) 


1. 

2. ^prcrcft 

3. ‘•rfafrnr 

4 . 

5. 

6. 

<n 


^R-*rrfr rftrrV iRrfRhR w 

SFJWT RbOT 


rtot irsptt % rrt? 

■H H I F? "+* I T 


[*T offTo 11 012 / 2 / 72 -f 5 r-f 3 To] 


OTfi?TR^'7 R3APR, Rtf-RT RfRR I 


department of atomic energy 

ORDER 

Bombay the 21st Aicputi t, 1072. 

S.O. 3165 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-rule (2) of rule 9, clause (b) of sub-rule (2) of rule 
12 and sub-rule (1) of rule 24 of the Central Civil Ser- 
vices (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965, 
the President hereby directs that the following amend- 
ments shall be made In the Order of the Government 
of India in the Department of Atomic Energy No. S.O. 


‘ Vyi’i Posts in Power Projects Engineering Division- 


5187. dated Lhe 3rd December, 1970, published In the 
Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (11), 
dated the 27 th November. 1971, namely: — 

In the Schedule to the said notification — 

(1) in 'Part 1— General Central Service, Class II’, — 

(a) lor item ”(vi) Power Projects Engneering Divi- 
sion” and the entries relating thereto, and 

(b) for item "(vii) Madras Atomic Power Project”, 

the following items and entries shall respec- 
tively be substituted, namely: — ' - 


1 


2 


3 


4 


Scientific, Technical and Admi- Director Director All ; 

minis trail vc post . 

(vii) Posts in Madras Atomatic Power Project. 

Scientific, Technical and Ad- Chief Project Engineer. Chief Project Engineer, All;, 

ministratlve posts. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVlNA 29, 1894 


[Pm II— 



(c) after item .<) and chi entries relating thereto, the following item and entries shall be inserted, namely 
“(X-A) Posts in Reactor Res ear h Centre 


(a) Scientific and Technical 
post . 

(b) Administrative post 


Project Director 


Project Director 


Project Director 


Project Director 


(a) in ‘Patt II — General Central Service, Class III — 

(a) fKiiern (v) Post in the Rajasthan Atomic Power Project” and the enrties relating thereto, 
lb) for item “(vii) Power Project Engineering Division”, and 

fc) f ir ifem “f viii) Posts in Miiras Atomic Paver Project’ and the entries relating thereto, the following item and entrie shall 
respectively b y ubtituted, namely : — 


“(v) Posts in Rajasthan Atomic Power Project 



(a) Scientific, Technical and Station Superintendent Opera- Station Superintendent, Opera- All 

Administrative posts in Op- tion and Maintenance Group. tion and Maintenance Group- 

eratig and Maintenance 

Group. 

(b) Scientific and Technical Chief Project Engineer. Chief Project Engineer. All 

posts in Construction Group 

fc) Administrative posts in Chief Administrative Officer Chief Administrative Officer. All 

Construction Group. 

“(vii I Posts in Power Projects Engineering Division. 

(a) Scientific and mechnical Head, Engineering Division. Head, Engineering Division. All 

posts. 

(b) Administrative posts. Manager, Administrative Services Manages Administrative Services, All 


5 


Director, Power Pro- 
ject Engineering 
Division. - 


Director, Power Pro- 
ject Engineering 
Division. 

Director, Power Pro- 
ject Engineering 
Division.” 

Engineering 

Director”; 


(viii I Posts in Madras Atonmic Power Project. 


I 2 3 4 5 

(a) Scientific and Technical Chief Project Engineer. Chief Project Engineer. AH Director Power Pro- 

poSsS. ject Engineering Di- 

vision. 

(b) Administrative posts. Manager, Administrative Services Mnager Administrative Services. a\i Director, Power Project 

Engineering Division” 

(c) after item (xii) and the entries relating thereto, the following items and entries shall be inserted, namely: — 

“(xii-A) Posts in Reactor Research Centre 

(a) Administrative posts. Chief Administrative Officer. Chief Administrative Officer. All Project Director. 

(b) Technical posts. . . Chief Administrative Officer Chief Administrative Officer. All Project Director” ; 

(3) in Part III — General Central Service, Class IV’ — 

(a) for item “(vii) Power Project Engineering Division” and the entries relating thereto, and 

(b) for item “(viii) Posts in Madras Atomic Power Project” and the entries relating thereto, the following item and entries sha 11 
respectivly be substituted, namely : — 

“(vii) Posts in Power Projects Engineering Division. 

(a) Technical post. Administrative Officer Administrative Officer All Head, Engineering 

Division. 

(b) Administrative post . . Administrative Officer. Administrative Officer. All Manager, Admin s- 

x trative Service ”. ; 






Sec. 3(u)j 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 197 2/ AS VINA 29, 1894 


4463 


“(viii) Posts in Madras Atomic Power Project. 




I 

2 

3 

4 

5 

(a) Technical posts. 

. Administrative Officer. 

Administrative Officer. 

All 

Chief Project Engine er 
Manager, Adminis- 

(b) Adininitgrative pogts. 

Administrative Officer, j 

Administrtive Officer. 

AU1 

trative Servisce”; 

(c) after item “(xii) Posts in I:w/ Witer Projects” and the 

namely : — 

“(xii-A) Posts in Reactor Research Centre. 

entries relating thereto, the following items and entries shall be inserted. 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

(a) Administrative posts. 

. Senior Administrative Officer 

Senior Administrative Officer. 

All 

Chief Administrative 
Officer. 

Co) T jc'i licil posts. 

. 3 eaior Ad rvaistrative Officer. 

Senior Administrative Officer. 

All 

Chief Administrative 
Officer. 


[No. 22 (i)/ 68 -Adm.] 
D. C. CHOPRA,. Under Secy. 


RRJT fwnT 

•o 

21 STTOT, 1972 

TTo Ro 3165 U'nlf'T, faffT TTT (uffTOT, PlTOR 5 TT>t) PtW, 1 965 % fdRT 9 % TT-fR>T ( 2) 
fTUT 12 % TT-fTTT (2 ) % HR (h) tfiX faRT 24 % R-faRT (l) TRr 5TRT TTpRiff R TtfFT RUt gtT tTR^Rr 
fa^TT & t % ffTR 2 7 7F77, 1971 ^ RTT % UTTT ^ TFT ?>, HR TfT, TT-HR ( N ) R TTlftlT RRRT 3R? fWT JTTJ 

wft frt rtr % tstf, r<> Ro 5 1 8 7 feuF 3 Pcrr, 1 9 7 0 t fRTfafHrr rutItt fro; hr, ftr: — 

ur srfsrg^RT Rjgnf Jr : — 

( 1 ) 'wrl — ftsttot %rFt Jurr, Rf II’ Jr , — 

(ffi) R “(VI) fasTtT TPUTtRF ^HFfTRF RTPl’ TTT RTlt Raj-fTSTT TfTfeTf % RTPT R, FR 

(h) R “(VII) RTU RFTH ^rufNH f ’ ’ % PTPT R RRT: fTO f pHPud R FFTT TParfTOTF HTpRf HtHTT, 

FTR: — 


"(VI) PRPT 'iPUFliRT 5#fTRt TUFT Jf R 


1 

2 

3 

4 

4 jnfiy, aRfNt fwt 

Pf&r*' 



RrrapRF R 





(VII) RTF R7TTW pRTFT qf^flRT if R 

4?df'Ff> , d+'FT'Pt TO 9^41 'jHI ^vTlPiMt FR Tfuft^RT ^jfffJrR itstV 

rPTTT WfTO R 

(tr) r (X) rft Rffr R^ferer sfafroff % ?re fTOr%fer r rtt TfMrort urfro hr, rr: — 


[Part it — Sj^q. 4! 


4464 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21. 19-72/ASVIN^ 29, 1894 

("Xb?) b^bsttb if bb 



(BT) 4?TlRt't> BBT 
dTiBi+f BT 


(H) BBTBRrBT? bRbI^HI ReCBT TfBTTBBT BBf 

( 2) “BET II — BEUTT TtBT, BB III” if — 

(B?) BT “ ( V ) TTBTBTB BTBTB R^TE BREffEBT if E?” BBT 3B% BIBRsTB Sf R fe ' Tf % TBTB BT, 

(^r) bt "(VH) Rtbb 4RT1441 bbtb” %■ ebtb bt, bbt 

(b) BT “ (VIII ) B3TB BTBTB RtBB BpEffBBT Jf B?” BBT BB% BETRsTB BRrRrBf % BBTB BT BBB: RehPhRsI B 
BB BBT bRtRtBT BtRtB B?f BTB, BftTB: — 

"(V) TTBTBET BTBTB RpSTB BRBf*M I if B? 


bRbRht Rt%BBT 


(B) BBTBBBBTBBTSTB BB* TTBB BBfSEE, BBFET T£BB BBReP, BBEBB BBT fBTBB, RfBB BfTBtBBT 


if BBTReP BTBTTf BBT BBTB- BBT BBTSTB TB BBT BBTSTB BB 

Ref bb 

(g-) BRmfBTT iffBTREPBBT wr bRetRibt ^B f- wr qfcBRBi t$t- 
BBTffRrf bb Rett Rett 

(b) bRtbtb bb B tbibRee bb bw bbtbb Trfsmrf w bbtbb Bfymrr 


^ffRETTf BBET 

BBT RrtBT, RrTB bRbReTT 

^RRETff BBTB 

BBf Rt^BB, RtBB BfTBfBBT 

•o 

^BfRErCf bbtb”; 


« (VII) RtBB BfTBfBBT TBtRETTf BBTB B BB 

(B) f BTR tB BBT BBBtBf BT BBIB, SBfRETTf BBTB, ^fff-ETTf BBTB BBf RlBBT 

BBTB 

(g-) BBTBREPBB BBBE, BBTBRep %BTB BBBB'BMII'H'RTi tRtib BBf Rt%bt”; 

“ (VIII) BBTB BTBTB RtBB BfTBfBBT if BB 

( B ) f BrRTT BBT BTBTTf BB B@T BRBTBBT f Bf- BBB BfTBfBBT f Bf- BBf RtBBB, RrBB bRbR 

Rett Rett ^ffRErff bbtb”; 

(?§r) BBIBReEBB BBERT, BBTBRTBi %BET BBBBT, BBTBRrB TETET BBf Rt^BB, RtBcT bRetR 


(g) BBTBRtBTBB BBSRT, BBTBRw BBET BBBB>, BSTE 

(b) bb (XII) bbtbtrt brtRset bRiRetI % bet, BBB: 


“(XII-t) Rqb^t bbbbtb bet b bb 


bbtb”; 


• BB BBT BRtRtBT BTfBB Bf BTB, BTBB: — 



(bt) bbeetPef bb 

BisBBBTBBBRTTTTf BSB BBTBB BfBBBTf 

•O S3 

BBf 

BfTBtBBT 

Rt%9EP 

(^) BTBf^f BT 

TO BBTBB BfSTBTTf TO BBTBB BfBBTTCf 

VO O 

BBf 

bRbnbt 

Rt^EP”; 




bn. 3(0 1 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA. . i 'TOBER 21, I972/ASVINA 2", 1801 4465 


( 3) "*TRT III-ffTHnyT to, IV" if' — 

( W‘ ) TT ' ' ( VII ) fTTT TftofnFIT toftftorff TRET” TTT TT4 RTqfERT MfafVun % FRTR qr, ?p<TT 
(jj) ff? ,r ( VIII) RTET TrTTflJ ftopT h P 1 if qr” TET TEE TrRfiW qfd feiff % fret Tf Wi: 

ET EET sF"! fe iff Kllf+H to ETE, ETEE: — 


"(VII) fwr Tf’iTt^m tofftoEto T'qrr if t? 

(t) ETEftoET THTEE tosTFlff 

(et) TETEfETET 7TO EFEETto 

"(VIII) ETfE ETEP9 fEEE qfVtowr if TT 


tetee totonto 

TETEE mfa-fr l fl 


eeT tret, ^toftoitr teet 

Eto TREE, TEElf-TT ifqto” ; 


ijsq qftotonn ^toftorr 
tree, TETEftoE irwto” ; 


(e) TE-ftto TE TETEE EftTETto TEETE EftTElto Rvff 

(to) eeteFee qr stetee totonto tetee EftEfnto nto 

(e) ee "(XIl) ekt eteF qftoTEET if ee,, eet ee% e^F-he srfarfeEf tfr er qurtir: ftototofarf ee ert 
qFqftoqt suitor to eet, ETErr— 

" ( XII-T) fnrqjT ?ppf*rR toi if TT— 

( e ) TETEfEE ee Eftos a tier totonto qf^rs tetee EftrEtof qyft 

(to) EEEfto EE qfto? yuil'44 qfwFf to?E5 EETEE EfipETTT qto 


w rtee vftpEito 

•3 

ESE EETEE EfuElff, 

[E 22 (i) 68 -EETEE] 
^E? ETE tolEET, WZ EfEE I 


MINISTRY OF STEEL AND MINES 
(Department of Mines) 


New Delhi, the 26th August, 1972. 


S.O. 3166. — Whereas by the notification of the Gov- 
ernment of India in the late Ministry of Petroleum and 
Chemicals and Mines and Metals (Department of Mines 
and Metals) No. S.O. 1642. dated the 15th April, 1971 
Issued under sub-section (I) of section -7 of the Coal 
Bearing Areas ( Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957 
(20 of 1957), the Central Government gave notice of its 
Intention to acquire lands in the locality specified in the 
Sri edule appended to that notification: 

And whereas the competent authority in pursuance of 
section 8 of the said Act has made his report to the 
Central Government; 


And whereas the Central Government, after consider- 
ing the report aforesaid, and, after consulting the Gov- 
ernment of Orissa, is satisfied that the lands measuring 
45.35 acres (approximately) or 18.37 hectares (approxi- 
mately) described in the Schedule appended hereto should 
be acquired; 

Now. therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred 
b v sub-sertion (1) of Section 9 of Are said Act, the Cen- 
tral Government hereby declares that the lands measur- 
ing 45.35 acres (approximately) or 18.37 hectares (ap- 
proximately) described hi the said Schedule are hereby 
acquired. 

2. The plans of the area covered by this notification 
may be inspected in the Office of the Collector. Dhen- 
kanal (Orissa) or in the Office of the Coal Coneroller, 
J. Souncil House Street, Calcutta or in the National Coal 
Development (Corporation Limited (Revenue Section 
Darbbanga House Ranchi (Bihar). 


Schfdulf. 

Bharatpur Block (Talcher Coalfields. 

Drawing No. Rev/ 74 / 72 . 
(Showing land acquired). 

ALL RIGHTS : 


Si. 

No* 

Village 

Police Station 

Sub-Division. 

District. Area. 

Remark , 

1 . 

Bharatpur . 

Colliery 

Talcher 

Dhankanal 

Pull. 

2 , 

Lachhmanpur 

Colliery 

Talcher 

Dhenkanal 

Part. 



Total area 
or 

45 ' 35 acres. 

18 -37 hectares 

(approximately) 

(approximately) 



44 fi 6 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II— 


Plot numbers acquired in village Bharatpur. 
i to 25- 

Plot numbers acquired in village Lachhmanpur : 

3j(P), 4ofP), 4t(P), 5°(P)- 452(P), 57(P), 6oCP), 61 to 66, 67(P), 68(P), 69(P'), 70 to 75, 76(P), 77(F), 78 to 82, 83(P), 84, 87, 88 to 94, 
95(P), 96(F), 97(P), 99(P), 228(P), 229, 230, 274, (P) and 309- 

BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION 

Line passes along the western boundary of village Bharatpur and also the part northern boundary of village BaiandaJ which 
is also the part common boundary of South Balanda already acquired under sub-section (1) of Bection 9 of the Coal Bearing 
Areas (Acqusition and Development) Act, 1957 vide S.O. No. 702, dated the 18th March, i960] and meets at point ‘z\ 

2 — 3 Line passes along the part southern boundry of plot numbers 6, 5 and 230 in village Lachhmanpur and meets at point ‘3’. 

3 — 4. Line passes through plot numbers 228, 83 and along the western boundary of plot Nos. 84, 87 and part western boundary 

of plot number 90, through plot numbers 99, 97, 96, 95, 77, 76, 68, 68, 67, 35, 40 and 41 in village Lachhmanpur and meets 
at point ‘4’. 

4— 5 . Line passes through plot numbers 41, 50, 52, <5o, 57 and 274 in village Lacchhmanpur and meets at point ‘5’. 

5 — 6. Line passs along the part common boundary of villages Lachhmanpur and Nakhatrapur, Lachhmanpur and Balanda [which 

is also the part common boudnary of Jagannath pur Block (North Balanda) acquired under snb-section (1) of section 9 of 
Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957 vide S O, No. I334> dated the 24th April, 1962] and meets 
point ‘6A’. 

6 — 7 — 8 Lines paSB along the part Northern boundary of village Bharatpur [which is alo the common boundary of vllages Bharatpur 
and Balanda and also which are the part common boundary of Jagannathpur Block (North Balanda) acquired under sub- 
section (1) of section 9 of Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957 vide S.O. No- i?34, dated the 24th 
April, 1962] andd meet at point ‘8’. 

8 — 9 — 10 — 1 1 Lines pass along the eastern boundary of village Bharatpur [which are also the common boundary of Bharatpur and Baland 
village and also part common bounary of South Balanda acquired under suh-fection (1) of section 9 of Coal Beerirg Filers 
(Acquisition and Development) Act,'i957 vide S.O. No. 702, dated the 18th March, i960] ardmeet at point ‘iT. 

11 — 1 Line passes along the southern boundary of village Bharatpur (which is also the common boundary of v llagca Bhartapur 

and Balanda and also part common boundary of South Balanda acquired under sub-section (1) of section 9 of Coal Bearing 
Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, t957 vide S.O. No. 702, dated 18th Match, i960] and meets at starting point ‘T 


sflT iTFT 

(*9iT5T fprnr) 

df fPTTt, 2 G— *TH r >7?T 19 7 2. 

PTo TTo 316R TT: pitPUT PTvT (PEPd - Tk 

ftmtr) TrfafrRTT, 1937 ( 1957 tt 20 ) pit tut 

7 pit ^rwur ( 1 ) % mfu tut ^uptu: % JftfTTT 
tTt UTmT ttt pth tV tfj rtupt (qtr srtr tt§ 
fwr) pit srfTgupT Tfwr pto tto 1642 mrta 15 

*nfar, 1971 JUT, %^ftT TTP7U J" TT TfT^PdT Jr TTDTC 

T^ft Jr fafTfoe pfjfa'nr Jr ^fT pit Tfipcr prut % pttJ' 

tuft pit ^t «ft ; 

pfk tt: Rear srrfrprrJt % tpt prfarfdTT pit tut 

8 %■ up Jf ’4 n n't furt? d.'/ttr btptu pit jt £ ; 

sftr Ter: TT-fPT futtr TT fpTTT fryjt *ftT UftET 
TUER it 'UPUT Prut % TfTTtf fupru PT TOT 

PPT I fpi *fUt T^pt Jr pfrr 45 . 35 
(dPUTP) PT IS. 37 |p #PT (HWr) Tfwr pit 
pit WfTT fprPT TTPT ^rfgTT ; 

TT: TP, YPT TftrfHPR pit TUT 9 Pit STOUT ( 1 ) 
3UT PPTT TrfPrrpf PTT 5UTUT PU?t fr, TTPTT rr^. 

JUT P^TtW PUift | f% STO T^jsft Jf Pf%fT 45. 35 


INo. C3.2(5)/70-C3.] 
A. 9. DESHPAJNDE, Unedr Secy. 

trprc (win t) m'i8. 37$p£qr'(sPnTO) T f-m i' i pitTfr 
Pit i'TPTUT TtPT foPT'pRlT' fc I 

2 . to % Turfa *it% pttJt <#?r % TnfpJr 

PIT fdftPUT P>HP2<, jfrpnw (gftn) ^ PTPfdTP' Jf, 
TOPT pifaeTT fdPflPT, 1, PluftTOT fTTO PUf W % 

pupfiur Jr topt Trpftp pJetut faprur f^nur f%fJr?rs' ( thut 
iFpTHr), JUTPT £F3T, iNt (fa$R) %■ PTTfTT Jf flFTT 
pt Tprsrr P: i 

purtu pitm-^p 

T«PTTrPro/74/72 
(trfirr pff pf wrfir pit 
Pf%T PU?f 5JT[) 

TPfr Tf^PTT 


TTT 

jfeTT 5T TTFT fpW tSp fd>Tpi|7Tt 

TWT 

pm 

1 PRd|iT 

pftPTTPTM TTP^U ^dpiMef ^ 

2 

prtTerr y'd+Hu tr 


9TR- 


ppr (^T :45. 35 tr^f (TTWT) 


TTTT 18. 37 ^RTtR (PPHTP) 



Sic. 3(i.)] 


4467 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTORER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1R94 


m irir[T Jr ^tF^TcT fanr irr hh'i ft iht : 

1 Jr 25 

m msm'iT if ifn ffi h hth ft iht : 

35(ft), 40(fr), 41 (ft), 5 0 (it), 52(17), 57 
('ft), 6 0 (ft), 61 Jf 66, 6 7 (it) , 68 (ft) ,69 (ft), 70 
IT 75, 7 6 (it) , 7 7 ('ft), 78 1 82, 8 3 (it), 84, 87, 88 
% 9 4, 9 5 (it) , 9 6 (it), 97 (it) , 99(lt), 228(lt), 
229, 230, 2 74 (ft) ik 309. 

tftlT Ink 

1 - 2 it^i in ih^t ft ilwfr im ik in 
HimHtlTW:1TTftltir J? [it H11T iff m (ill 
ik firm) ififm, 1 9 5 7 ft etft 9 ft 111 m ( 1 ) 

% iftl H° iTTo swr 7 02, nftl 1 8 Iff, 1 9 60 JPT 

- 11 % ?7 ifii iff if itiht it it wrier: mmtftiT^] 

^^Dxft £ ik fnj V 11 fufr I 1 

2- 3 11^1 in 'HSII'JT if C TR' 1MT 6, 5 ik 2 3 0 
W?t W: ifSTlt it IT f fill isprft | sfjr fi?| ' 3 ’ IT 

fllft t I 

3- 4 IFal in I-SSII^T if klT 2 28, 83 1 

ik HTT 1WT 8 4, 8 7 iff iffllt iflT it 111 C 1T? 1WT 

90 iff wm: qfimt itir i, irr iwr 99 , 97 , 96, 

95, 77, 76, 69, 68, 67, 3 5, 40 ik 41 iflTT'pmft 

| ik ftm; ' 4 ’ qr fuff £ 1 

4 - 5 im m mnijr if in wrr 41 , 50 , 52 , 

6 0 , 5 7 ik 2741 km iimr t ik fkj ' 5 ' h fnir 

t 1 

5- 6 w ik mm qk 

irm mf if wm; mm itir 1 [it frnr n% 
sfi (wii ik Pmrr) ifsrffii, 1957 ft irt 9 ft 
TORI ( 1 ) % isftl H° IT ° i?s 1 T 1 3 3 4, nrFl 2 4 
ikr, 1962 tpt ifm iwn^r kr (nfr irm) 
if ft to: mm itir &] n iuft | ik fkj 
'6-k 1?: flmt | i 


6-7-s nninmjiqft to: mftitnJr 

[it imp- wk wi inf it it inm itir | nr 
it fm mr (111 ik fun) ifirfin, 195 7 
it 1PT 9 ft niPT ( 1 ) % Tisftl H° ITo 1W 1 334, 
irfkr 24 mi, 1962 sm ifn ihtijt k? (nrft 
wi) ftitim: mm wtul] stHTtjirrfttik 
fng 's' it fmft | i 

8-9-1 0-11 ITn 111 1THJT ft TftlT Jt [ft 

swfi ik imrr inf ft it mm itn | ik ftnr 
nim (link fun) ififam, i 957 ftirrr 9 
ft mm ( 1) f isfti H° no 702 nfte is if#, 
i 960 ?m ifn ifisiit inm ft it to: mm 
itir I] 5 m iint | ik ' 1 1' it fimft ^ 1 

11-1 ir?i in ithjt qft ifffiit itir Jr [it w$t 
iknmTiTifftirmTn itirl ikftwmrJrM‘1 
(mnkfiHi) iferfm, 1957 n im 9 if hurt 
( l) % lltl Ho ITo 1HT 7 02 mV 1 8 IF#, 1960 

im if 11 ifwft ihht fr if to : mm rftir t] 

|RTT ^Tirit I ik mfriT fm ‘ l' IT fwft I I 

[io ffo 3 — 2 ( 5 )/ 7 oft 0 5 ] 
10 itr 0 knii, iit ifii 1 

ORDER 

IRON AND STEEL CONTROL 

Calcutta, the 1st September 1972 

S.O. 3167. — In exercise of the powers conferred 
on me by Notification No. S.O. 1436 dated 18th April, 
1967 under the Essential Commodities (Regulation of 
Production and Distribution for purposes of export) 
Order, 1966. I hereby direct that the firm specified In 
Column I of the Tuble below shall sell the goods as 
specified in Column 2 therc-against to the firm speci- 
fied in the corresponding entry in Column 3 of the 
said tab’e for purposes of manufacture of Engineer- 
ing goods for export at the price Indicated there- 
against in Column 4 subject to the conditions enume- 
rated in Column 5 of the said table. 

Nam; of thh Specification Nameoftfie Price Condition 

firm of goods. expoitor. 

M/s. Indian H.BAViros M s. Super At Supply 
Steel & Wire 36 ’ 24 i M / Cycle & cur shoald bo 

Products Ltd Tones (Thir- Alliee Indu- out made On 

Indranagar, tysix point stries, Gill mar- export pro- 

Singhbhum, two lour one Road, Ludh- kot duction 

Tatanagir. M/Tons only) iana-3 price, basis (i.e. a 

priority 
next to 

Delencef 


[No. F. PR-V/5/121/72,] 

By order etc. 

T. GHOSH, 

Director of Export Production 
and Iron and Steel Controller. 



4468 THE GAZETTE OF IilDJA: OCTOBER 21, 1972 'ASVINA 79, ism [Par r II— 


4M+'dl , J 1 fRRPR, 1972 

fT°«ITo 3167. — ESS : COMM / RPDE/7 8 — ENTREE ERJ (ffetR % ETtfeT % ffe ^cTT 5TT fee f fe ytir 471 
Wwi) Efeh 196 6 % fefeRET R 0 WoOT o 143 6 few is EJR, 19 67 % STE E4E Rlffenff 41 fetE 4fe 

grj; r, fercsro ift% fe rtt differ % tew 1 % qfe fe efe 2 it fetffe Efeyrf fer, etfr 3 it diEifer fe fe fe t fe fe 

ERJ-Ef ^ 37TTW RET fetcf 4 if ffe Eir qy ( 5 fe Rfr qy; fgf^pcr qfe qrT Efel RET g I 


fe 47TRTR 

EEJEt 47T ffe^R feRR ffefe R.T RTR 



1 

2 3 

4 

5 

ERR sfom tiflR fe 

ttr °fe odldR 36. 241 djl f dTuPod fe 

RTRPR iJyR Rt RTR % 

RM 4Rdddid Pidld 

RTRT RfeER fferfe, 

3R (®rftR TEREE Tt ^ r i 14 ? isy^l.E 

^ERTR % RRR t) 

5TTRfR4vTr % RTHTR T7 


fern;, scdivriR, ffepjR etc 141 fir#) fer fe EfferET -3 (fefE fife et ePe 4 tet 


Rt srftran % ret 

% feETR 47 ETC ^t) 

feft I 


MINISTRY OF SHIPPING AND TRANSPORT 
(Transport Wing) 

New Delhi, the 8th August 1972 

S.O. 3168. — Shri R. P. Ojha, Secretary to the Govern- 
ment of Punjab, Transport Department, is appointed 
as Member of the Working Group, constituted vide the 
Ministry of Shipping ahd Transport Resolution 
No. 39-TAG(3)/72, dated the 7th July, 1972, to examine 
the question of language to be used for the display of 
registration marks on motor vehicles, vice Shri Kulwant 

Singh. 

[No. 39-TAG (3)/ 72.] 
N. A. A. NARAYANAN, Under Secy. 


[R° feo?rn;°-feo/5/l2l/72] 

etot % 1 fc 

#-> fer, 

fefd 4dll<td ffe4T4> 
Tife: 

^cprr^TRT fefei 1 

RfeffR vftx RffegR RWWh 

(iMfeEfe 

Ef fefe, 8 EWE, 19 72 

<JEo feo 3168. — TETE RWTT % EffefeT ffeFT 
% Rffe, fe STRo feo feflr 4 it fe qdrqTR ffe % WET 
TT ER Efe EE ET REET fd^EE ffer RTdT | fe Rfe 
Rdwr tt TTfew ffe[ % 5r?fe %■ ffe fe afet 

d I dl ETET % EW TT RTR 47fe % tfe rffeE fey fefe|E 
RWTEE % RENT R o 39-£t it 4ft ( 3)/72 ferw 7 
197 2 if Rffe fe fe | I 

[Ro 39fe IT 4ft (3)/72j 
feT° ITo TTo ETURRR, 
EET Rife, 



Sec, 3(ii) J 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVTNA 29, 1894 


4469 


ELECTION COMMISSION INDIA 

New Delhi , the 11th. September, 1972 

S.O. 3169. — In exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (1) of Section 13A of the Representa- 
tion of the People Act, 1950, the Election Commission 
of India, in consultation with Ihc Government of 
Uttar Pradesh, hereby nominates Shri Kail ash Nath 
Goyal, Secretary to the Government of Uttar Pra- 
desh, Judicial and Legislative Departments and Legal 
Rememberancer to that Government, as the Chief 
Electoral Officer for the State of Uttar Pradesh with 
effect from the date he takes over charge and until 
further orders iHce Shri Prem Prakash. 

[No, 154/UP/72.] 

imiT 

feeTf, 11 1972 

eho *fTo 3169. — ■sfftr 

1950 ^ 8TKT 13 T ff 3WTT ( 1 ) 3TTT !T?fT 
ffrfepft 3FT tfffpT ^77% 'flTTfT fad'W’T kTPfpT, BBT 
tT^fl +R+K % T^-pTht 71, sft ^4 HTT7T % PTPr 9T, 

RTO TRUT, Rfiur, JrTX srTH TTPE17, 

fwpft fw*T ?fk RTTIT % fafa -TUHTff 

wuuf trmftJi crnft'3' % sttH fni, bitt 

7734 % fuq fdT'rdR .snfw % "t Jr 

ttdTSTKr dTRFfrTfTFT TU7TT £ I 

['To 154, 'T 1 if 0 , 7 2] 

New Delhi, the 21st September 1972 

S.O. 3170. — In pursuance of clause (b) of sub- 
section (2) of section 116C of the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951 (43 of 1951), the Election Commis- 
sion of India hereby publishes the order of the Supreme 
Court of India pronounced on the 31st July, 1972, on 
an appeal from the judgment and order dated the 9th 
August, 1971 of the High Court of Judicature at Allaha- 
bad in Election Petition No. 4 of 1971. 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA 
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION 
Civil Appeal No. 1349 (NCE) of 1971 

Appeal under Section 11 6- A of the Representation 
of the People Act, 1951 from the judgment ancl Order 
dated the 9th August,, 1971 of the Allahabad High 
Court at Allahabad in Election Petition No. 4 of 1971. 

Shri Sheo Narain Kakrania, aged about 65, years, 
son of Late Shri Babu Lai Kakrania, residing 
at “Kakrania Bhawan’’ 377/116. Mohtashim- 
ganj, Allahabad. 3. — Appellant. 

Versus 

1. Shri Hcmwati Nandan Bahuguna, father’s name 

not known, residing at 13-B, Hastings Road, 
Allahabad. 

2. Shri Krishna Kumar son of Shri Jagdeo Prasad, 

aged about 27 years, resident of 319, Ahiyapur, 
(Malviya Nagar), Allahabad. 

3. Shri Chandrama son of Shri Deo Saran, aged 

about 27 years, resident of Fatehpur Karchana, 
District Allahabad, at present residing at. 252, 
Bahadurganj, Allahabad. 

4. Shri .Taipal Singh Kashyap son of Shri Bhupal 

Singh, aged about 35 years, residing at 1, 
Mahatma Gandhi Marg, Allahabad. 


5. Shri Badi Uddin, son of Shri Hasini Uddin, 

aged about 39 years resident of 40, Dhondipur, 
Allahabad. 

6. Shri Brajesh Narain Brajesh, aged about 53 

years, son of Shri Har Narain, residing at 
Santosh Sadan, Sindhi Colony, Lashkar, Gwa- 
lior. 

7. Shri Prem Chandra, Father’s name not known, 

r/o Village and post Jaisra, District Allahabad. 

8. Shri Mangla Prasad, son of Shri Banwari Lai, 

aged about 69 years, resident of village Bam- 
pur Upraha, Bampur, District Allahabad. 

9. Shri Ratan' Singh Raizada, father’s name not 

known, resident of 1-B, Beli Road, New Katra, 
Allahabad. 

10. Shri Sat Narain, Father’s name not known, 
resident of village Karkuni, Post Madhopur 
Naini, Tahsil Karehhana, District Allahabad. 

11. Shri Indu Dev, aged ^bout 64 years, son of Late 

Shri G. C. Dev, residing at 7, Albert Road, 
Allahabad (Petitioner No. 1). 

12. Shri H. P. Pandeya, son of Late Shri J. P. 
Pandeya, resident of 4, Lowther Road, South 
Malaka, Allahabad (Petitioner No. 2) . 

13. Shri Kamta Nath Agarwal, aged about 45 years 
son of Late Shri Kedar Nath Agarwal, resi- 
dent of 261, Chak, Allahabad (Petitioner 
No, 4) , — Respondents. , , 

Con am: 

Hon’ble Mh. Justice K. S. Hedge 
Hon'ble Mr. Justice A, N. Grover 
Hon’ble Mr. Justice D. G. Palf.kah 

31st Day of July, 1972. 

For the Appellant: Mr. E. C. Agarwal, Advocate. 

For Respondent No. 1: Mr. S. C. Agarwal, Advocate. 

For Respondent No. 2: Miss Kailash Mehta, Advocate. 

The appeal above mentioned being called on for 
Orders before this Court on the 31st day of July, 1072 
UPON Mr. E. C. Agarwala Counsel for the Appellant 
informing the Court that the Appellant herein does 
not want to press 1 u e appeal above-mentioned this 
court doth order: (l)That the appeal above-mentioned 
be and is hereby dismissed as not pressed; (2) That 
there shall be no order as to costs of this appeal. 

Witness the Hon’ble Mr. Sarv Mittar Sikri, Chief 
Justice of Indie at the Supreme Court New Delhi 
dated this the 31st day of July, 1972. 

(Sd) Dy, Registrar, 

[No. 82/4/UP/71.1 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 2nd September 1972 

S.O. 3171. — Whereas the Election Commission is 
satisfied that Shri S. Nallappan, S/o Shri Sinnappan. 
Kottagoundampatti Post. Salem-11, a contesting can- 
didate for election to the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assem- 
bly from 82-Omalur assembly constituency, held In 
March, 1971 has failed to lodge an account of his 
election expenses ns required by the Representation of 
the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder: 

And whereas, the said candidate, even after the due 
notice has not given any reason or explanation for the 
failure and the Election Commission is satisfied that 
he has no good reason or justification for such failure. 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the 
said Act the Election Commission hereby declares the 
said Shri S. Nallappan to be disqualified for being 
chpscn as, an<j for being a member of either House of 



4470 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II — 


Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly or Legisla- 
tive Council of a State for a period of three yeaLS 
from the date of this order. 

[No, TN/LAI/82/71 (8) .] 

RlER 

TO fTOTO 2, fRTTOT, 1972 

RRo TO° 3 1 7 1 . — RR:, FeT?RR RTEET TO REETET 
FT#, 19 71 E f rr rFrreTT PlETE ERl % 
PppER % Fre 82 TOEEJT FETTER RT P ERIE REE 

eiP rtTOtep: TO et?etre TO retere, err 
^ST^SET^-, RpR-1 1, Epfi eFtPtPTcE ePeFeRR 
1951 RET R^SpR EETR ER FttTO RR REFER RTE 

fEpT’Nrr s^rtfr to TOf TO rto rFer toR e reer TO 

?; 

5EflT, EE:, REE R^TOrER; P RE ETON ^Tl 

FTO riP t t TO, reTO re eerer! % Ftr TOf er e 
wert reTOrte eTO Feet & ; ref PeTOee eie'et to 
it? TO eetete ?> ret t Ft rr% tit tt refer % Per 
tTO M 9 Pel ERE dT ? ETETPEcE EE £, ] 

re:, m , rte rFeFeee TO dm 1 o-e % rente 
P Frdtdd RETtR REETET -5m TO RE o rreprr dir 
ETO P frofr TO ree dr dr Fund ret TO Petr ret 
reet Ptetr rFrt? % rtot dd tor rV did % fER, 
TfR RRtETO ETpR P dTd E'f TO TOETEpE P PlR PeFer 
TOPte tort $ i 

[do dFd'd-Fdo do / 82/ 7 l/s] I 

S.O. 3172. — Whereas the Election Commission is 
staisfled that Shrl Sengoda Gounder S/o Shrl Rama 
Gounder, Ukkamparuthikadu, Kolathur, Salem Dis- 
trict, Tamil Nadu, a contesting candidate for election 
to the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly from 80- 
Mettur assembly constituency held in March, 1971 has 
flailed to lodge an accounrt of his election exprenses ns 
required by the Representation of the People Act, 
1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, the said candidate even after the due 
notice has not given any reason or explanation for the 
failure and the Election Commission is satisfied that 
he has no good reason or justification for the failure. 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the 
said Act, the Election Commission hereby declare the 
said Shri Sengoda Gounder to be disqualified for being 
chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of 
Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly or Legis- 
ative Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this order. 

TNo. TN/LA/80/71 (9) ,] 
RR° scfto 3172 — TT: PiTOeT ’TETRI TT RETORT 

frnm tfpRTE, 197 1 Pm eTOner Ptoet ret PtTOee 
PPtr soTOre Pietee Pee r^eie eTOetPriTOeee: 
TO PeTOtT TOeRT RpRER RE+IHI+toItoT, 

TOetet, Fret ePr, ePteett rTttFtFtFjr rPtPtee 


195 1 TOT eTOe EETR TO FtTOT ERT REFER R9p . 
FETTER TO-ft TT TOP TOT TOn ETpsJE RET E TETON 

TO 4; 

rV, TO:, TOT ETOtEER P TO ETON TfEET 
FTO RlP TO TOT, rtTO RE rtortt % PER Tpf TORE 
TORT TtTOeRR Riff FtTT TOT Pr^fTO TTETET NT 

TO RRierrT ?T tot t f% rr% etr ^r rtortt % Fte 
R tf toPt rtto tt ?toTOtor RfiT &; 

RT:, RT, RTT rPtFtTO dP 9PT 1 0-R % RTRTO 
R FTOTRT RTTET rr^^prr rtr RTOTTO RTTTT RT 
RRT R FktP Rl RTT % TO FTO TO7T TO FtoTT RET 
RTTO Fetor TOto^ % RTOT TO RrP RV TO % Firr, 

?r rtPr TO ttPn r TOt TO TO tortrFj % Fre 
FTOrt rTOt tort ^ i 

[Ro TfRR-FTo Ro/ 8 o/7 1/9] 

S.O. 3173, — Whereas the Election Commission is 
satisfied that Shri M. Samikkannu Fadayachi, 58- 
Easwarankoil Street, Elavanasur, Tirukoilur Taluk, 
Tamil Nadu, a contesting candidate for election to the 
Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly from 65-Ulundurpet 
assembly constituency, held in March, 1971 has failed 
to lodge an account of his election expenses in the 
manner required by the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, the said candidate, even after the due 
notice has not given any reason or explanation for the 
failure and the Election Commission is satisfied that 
he has no good reason or justification for such failure. 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the 
said Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the 
said Shri M. Samikkannu Padayachi to be disqualified 
for being chosen as, and for being, a member of either 
House of Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly or 
Legislative Council of a .State for a period of three 
years from the date of this order. 

[No, TN/LA/65/71 (10) .] 

RR° TOo 3 1 73 .— TOT:, FTOrT REpR TO RBTRETTO 
TOT ^ Ffi NT#, 19 71 R TOrRTT PeTET RET % 
"FeTOrR % Frtt 6 5-d"jR'iTO fro-fET SpR P ^TTO 
'~rTO Tot rTOtoTR TO Too RifTTOR^ TORTTO, 5 3 
r froroTOmr rTO Prtrettrt, FteTOrrR tFrrris; 

r RtE rFtFtFsTO RpjfTOR, 195 1 TOT rTO RRTR RE 

' Prop 5 T r rTOtr TOrP rTO FrTOrr toTOto TOrr 

"TOTOr rTO R rrrr TO S ; 

R> TO:, RTO RtTOtoTE P Rp RTOR ^RRT 
fTO RlP To TO, RRTO RR RRTOTOT % fRrr TOf RTOR 
RTOT RETOtor rTO fTOT RRT FtrTrE REpR TO 
TO TO RRTtTTE TO RET I Ffi RR% RTR RR RRRRRT P FRR 
TOf RRpR TTOR RT TOtTOFrTO Eiff P; 

RR:, RT, RTR rPtFeRR TO RTR 10-R % RRRTOT 

p frotRR RtTOr trR^RTRRTO TO T[R° RTO^TOfERERlTO 



Sec. 3 (h)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 , 1972 /ASV 1 NA 29 , 1894 


4471 


TT tffp? % fTfff iff % 9T fTRt VET Tf fatUR ^Tflr 
sqTTT frUET q-fVq-^ % R 4 UT TR 5 TTR *lk T-t % farr, 
^R TT^W Tt RTlfT R RtR Tt T[ TTRFlfT % fa" fqTllR 
RtfRR TRRT t I 

[R o RffiT— f R ° Ro/fc 5 / 71 / 10 ] 

S.O. 3174 . — Whereas the Election Commission is 
satisfied that Shrl Murshad All, S/o Shri HoshmatAli, 
Mohalla QuJla, Aonla Tahsil, District Bareilly, Uttar 
Pradesh, a contesting candidate for election to the 
House of the People from 10 -Aonla Parliamentary 
Constituency, has failed to lodge an account of his 
election expenses as required by the Representation 
of the People Act, 1951 , and the Rules made there- 
under; 

2 . And whereas, the said candidate even after due 
notices has not given any reason or explanation for 
the failure and the Election Commission is satisfied 
that he has no good reason or justification for such 
failure; 

3 . Now, therefore, it) pursunce of section 10 A of the 
said Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the 
said Shri Murshad Ali to be disqualified for being 
chosen as and for b;eing a_ member of either House of 
Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly or Legis- 
lative Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this order, 

[No. TIP -HP/ 10 / 7 1 ( 231 .] 
Bv Order. 

A. N. SEN, Secy. 

RRo sfto 3174 . — 1 RR: fRRfRR RTrH TT RRTOTR 

RtRRTtfT TtT RRT% fTR fRR?TR% fTT 1 0 -RTTRT 
RR^fR FdR?R R Sffa TRTR HR^f Rl% TTlRRF # 
RTTR3Ffr TIT FFTRRRTf fTRT, RjRflT 

’3 - - J ^ 

SRTRRT fan R^ft (RTF t)t) HTT RfRfRfrT 
TfaftHR 19 51 FWT R^tftR RRTJ Rtr fRRRt TFT 
WfiftTR RR% fRRfRR TRf TT Tff Rt %tt rtPit 

tr^t Jr rrrpt I; 

sflr RR:, HTT TPff'TTlT tT, RTRT ^HRm fR?T 
Tl^r IT Hf RTft SR RRTHRT % far Tt# TFT rrrt 
RPT fT’T Rgf fruT £; TV: fRRTRR RTRtR TT Ri? tfV 
RRTHTR FR% TFT FI HRTHRT % fan- Tff 

RRfr TFT RT TRTRfffitR Riff 

RR: HR RRR RfafRRR tJ RFT 1 OT % TTRTtt 
J f fRRfRR HTRlR rrRRRRT BRR «ff R T HR Tiff TT 
RRR % fTRf Vff RRR % RT fTRt T^R Tf fRJTR RRT TTRRT 
faRTR RfTRR % RRTT T^r TT^r rV/ fffr % fRtr 7£f 
TDtT Tt RFtRT ?T RfR R 1 ? Tt TTHTRfj T FrTt fdffd 
mfrcT tw t 1 

[do Ro Ro Tfodo/l 0/71 (23)] 

RTRT R 

tto rrq-o HR, dfdd I 


New Delhi the 22nd August 1972 

S. O. 3 175.— In pursuance of the provisions of section 21 
of I he Representation of the People Act, 1951 (43 of 1951) and 
in supersession of its Notification No. 434/AP/71, dated the 
14th January, 1971, as subsequently amended, the Election 
Commission hereby designates, in constipation with the Go- 
vernment of Andhra Pradesh, the officer of Government specified 
in column 2 of the Table below as the Returning Officer of the 
parliamentary constituency in the State of Andhra Pradesh as 
specified in column 1 of the said Table against such others of 
Government 

Table 


Name of the constituency Returning Officer 


I 

2 

j. Srikafculam 

. Collector, Srikakulam. 

2. Patvachipurani (ST) 

. Collector, Srikakulam. 

3. Bobbili 

. Collector, Srikakulam. 

4, Visakhapatnam 

, Collector, Visakhapatnam. 

3, Rhadrachalam (ST) 

Collector, Khammam. 

6. Anakapalli 

. Collector, Vishakhapatnam. 

7. Kakinada 

. Collector, East Godavari. 

8. Rajahmundry 

. Collector, East Godavari, 

9. Amalapuram (SC) 

Collector, East Godavari. 

10. Narasapur . 

. Collector, West Godavari. 

11. Eluru 

Collector, West Godavari. 

t 2 . Gudivada , 

. Collector, Krishna. 

13. Vijayawada , 

. Collector, Krishna. 

t 4. Machilipatnam 

. Collector, Krishna. 

13. Ongole 

. Collector, Ongole. 

id. Guntur 

. Collector, Guntur. 

vj. Narasaraopat 

Collector, Guntur. 

t 8. Kavali 

Collector, Nellore. 

19. Ntllorc (SC) 

Collector, Nellore, 

20. Tirupathi (SC) 

Collector, Chittoor. 

21. Chittoor 

. Collector, Chittoor. 

22. Rajampet 

. Collector, Cuddapah. 

23. Cuddapah 

. Collector, Cuddapah. 

24. IRiidupur 

. Collector, Anantapur. 

25. Anantapur 

, Collector, Anantapur. 

26. Kurnool 

. Collector, Kurnool. 

27. Nandval 

. Collector, Kurnool. 

28. Nagarkurnooi (SC) 

29. Manbubnngar 

. Collector, Mahbubnagar. 

. Collector, Mahbubnagar. 

70. Hyderabad . 

. Collector, Hyderabad. 

31. Secunderabad 

. Special Officer, Municipal Cor- 
poration of Hyderabad. 

32. Sildipet(SC) 

, Collector, Medak. 

73. Medak 

Collector, Medak. 

34. Nizamabad . 

, Collector, Nizamabad. 

3‘L Adilabad 

. Collector, Adilabad. 

36, Peddapalli (SC) . 

Collector, Karimaagar 

37. Karimanngar 

. Collector, Karimnagar. 

3?. Warangal 

, Collector, Warangal. 

39. Khammam 

Collector, Khammam. 

40. Nalgonda 

. Collector, Nalgonda 

4J. Miryilguda , 

. Collector, Nalgonda. 


[No. 4 34 /AP/ 7 2 (t).] 


fit fTTf, 2 2 TTddT 1972 

ttd» 5 fr° 3 1 75 , — Rtr dfrfdfdT srfsrfrRH, 1951 
( 1 951 TT 43) TV 5 TFT 21 % BRHRt % IPJdTH Jf ^ 
TTsrid dTufTTfEpr wff srfsrgrdr ifo 434/Tro 
do/ 71 frrdr 14 ddrfr 1971 Tt HfdTfd ^7% ^ 

fddTTd RTdPT RTF dTTF % TTdT Jr 5 =ft% 

Tt dFdt % JRL'd 2 d fdfdf^T dFTTft Tfarrtt Tt 
tt^- TnnTt dfdTFt % drdJrddd di^ft^HTni 1 if 



4472 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVTNA 29, 1894 


[Pari II— 


T tr fafrfee TP 3 T^fT RRjt'T fTT?TT-J?T 

> TifTTT % ft *r nrrrjnT q^rfaftcr ftot 

t 


fRarfTT 9TT FT TIT frrfTF TlfFTT 


1 


2 


1. ‘SftFT^TR 

2 . qrtsfrjnr (tot) 

3. 

4. f^TFTRTTT 

5 . 'fTS'TT'TTT ( T‘ 45 (r ) 

6. WdTFWvfr 

7. W^V'ETT 

8 . FIT JJjV 

9. TOTTTTJTtT (TTl) 

10. FTOIJF 

1 1. 

12. *rfsrr?T 

13 . farmrrr 
14- RH'flTS'TR 

1 5 . ttWtt 

16. RiTF 

17. TW^TTTTT 

18. Wrl' 

19- %?TTT (TTT) 

20. facrffr (wn) 

21 . 

22. TTTR^ 

23. TTOTT 
24- f^ r U< 

25. TFTJF 
26- F'jT 

27 . Td'thTT 

28. TFTFF^T (*T»ir) 

29. R^f^TTF 

30. |TTRR 

31 - fETPTTTTTT 

32- (TTT) 

33. 

34. fTTpnrrr 
35 TT^TWK 

36, ^rrwft (ttt) 


FTFTT TlTTf'TT I 
FTTTF ’sfrfiTfTR I 
FTTTF Tf FTf TR I 

FT Rff i <g i *fi h I 
FTFiT faTPTHTRR I 
FTOTT R>TOrFV I 
FTF2R <j4 RErF R> I 
FTFJT TT R>TT<T I 
FTTdR RfVFR TlETtV I 
FT'TcT rF?TR TT'ETd 
4 H 4 't v . fTOTJT | 

TTfHT F™rr I 
ftttt ircorr i 
FTFTf TffftT I 
FTTTv J^TF | 

FTTFF tj/TF I 
FTTTF I 

FTTFF tJvTtF 
FT^FFF fRtJF 
FTFTF fR^F 
FTTF"^ FRtRT 
FTR£F TOT! 

FTTFF SFFTTJF 
FTFTf TR^T'p" I 
FT gi F F^T I 
FTTFF F^T I 
FTRF F RfRRTRF I 
FTTFF RTfRTR^ I 
FTFFF ^TTRIT I 
frilT ttPetfif) - , &mRTR 

RRF fRRR I 

ftttf Rtf i 

FTTFF RTF 
FTTFF fTTFOTRIT 
FTFFF TrfTTrRffi I 
FTFTF FFtRT»F 



1 


2 

3 7 . 

TtVrT TOR 

FTTTO 

FTtRTRF 

38 . 

TIFFT 1 

FTTTO 

RTFRT 1 

39 . 

TTTOTR 

V 

FTTFF 

NTOTR 1 

40 

RTTRm 

FT TIT 

HMuIrTr 1 

41 . 

fRfqrTijTr 

FTTFF 

TTTh’i?! ! 


[*“ 

434/RT0 SJ0/72 



S. O. 3176,— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub” 
section (1) of section 22 of the Repre s entaton of the People Act 
1951 and in supersession ofh s notification No. 434/AP/71, dated 
the 14th January, 1971, as subsequently amended, the Election 
Commission hereby appoints the officer of Government a s speci- 
fied in column 2 of the Table below as Assistant Returning Officer 
to assist the Returning Officer of the Parliamentary constituency 
in the State of Andhra Pradesh as specified in column 1 of the 
said Table against such officer of Government in the performance 
of the functions of such Returning Officer:— 

Table 


Returning Officer of Assistant Returning Officer 

Parliamentary constituency 


1 2 


1 RctViming Officer of x Personal Assistant to Co- 

Srikakuiam parliaments- Hector, Srikakulam, 
ry constitutencv 

2 Returning Officer of 2 Personal Assistant to Col- 

Parvathipuram (ST) Hector, Srikakulam. 


parliamentary consti- 

tuency. 

3 Returning Officer of 3, 

Bobbiii parliamentary 
constitutency. 

4 Returning Officer of 4, 

Visakhapatnam parlia- 
mentary constitutency. 

5 Returning Officer of 5 

Bhadrachalam (ST) 

parliamentary cons- 

titutency. 

6 Returning Officer of 6 

Anakapalli parliamen- 
tary constitutency, 

7 Returning Officer of 7 

Kakinada sparliumentary 
constitutency. 

8 Returning Officer of 8 

Rajahmundry parlia- 
mentary constitutency. 

9 Returning Officer of 9 

Amalapnram (SC) par- 
liamentary constitutency 

10 Returning Officer of 10 
Narsapur parliamentary, 
constitutency. 

it Returning Officer of n 
. Eluru parliamentary 
constitutency. 

12 Returning Officer of 12 

Gudivada parliamen- 
tary constitutency. 

13 Returning Officer of 13 

Vijayawada parliamen- 
tary constitutency. 

14 Returning Officer of 14 

Machilipatnam parlia- 
mentary constitutency. 


Personal Assistant to Col- 
lector, Srikakulam. 

Personal Assistant to Col- 
lector, Visakhapatnam. 

Personal Assistant to Col- 
lector, Khammam. 


Personal Ass stant to Col- 
lector, Visakhapatnam. 

Personal Assistant to Col- 
lector East Godavari. 

Personal Assistant to Col- 
lector, East Godavari. 

Personal Assistant to Col- 
lector, East Godavari. 

Personal Assistant to Col- 
lector, West Godavari. 

Personal Assistant to Col- 
lector, West Godavari. 

Personal Assistant to Col- 
lector, Krishna. 

Personal Assistant to Col- 
lector, Krishna. 

Personal Assistant to Col- 
lector Krishna. 



4473 


Sec. 3(H)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASV1NA 29, 1894 


i 


2 


(O 


GO 


15 Returning Officer of 15 Personal Assistant to Col- 

Ongole parliamentary lector Ongole, 

constitutency. 

16 Returning officer of 16 Personal Assistant to Col- 

, Guntur parliamentary lector, Guntur, 

constituency. 

il7 Returning Officer of 17 Personal Assistant to Col- 
Narasaraopet parliamen- lector, Guntur, 

] tary constitutency. 

18 Returning Officer of 18 Personal Assistant to Col- 

Kavali parliamentary lector, Nellore, 

constitutency. 


19 Returning Officer of 19 Personal Assistant to Col' 

Mellore (SC) parlia- lector, Nellore. 

mentary constitutency 

20 Returning Officer of 20 Personal Assistant to Col- 

Tirupathi (SC) parlia- lector, Chittoor. 
mentary constitutency. 

21 Returning Officer of 21 Personal Assistant to Col- 

Chittoor parliamen- lector, Chittoor. 

tary constitutency. 

22 Returning Officer of 22 Personal Assistant to Col- 

Rajampet parliamen- lector, Cuddapah. 

tary constitutency. 

23 Returnng Officer of 23, Personal Assistant to 

Cuddapah parliamentary Collector Cuddapah 
constituency. 

24 Returning Officer of 24, Personal Assistant to 

Hindupur parliamentary Collector, Anantapur. 

constituency 

25 Returning Officer of 25 Personal Assistant to Collec- 

Anantapur parliamentary ctor, Anantapur. 

constituency. 

26 Returning Officer of 26, Personal Assistant to 

Kurnool parliamentary Collector, Kurnool. 

constituency. 

27 Returning Officer of 27, Personal Assistant to 

Nandyul parliamentary Collector, Kurnool. 

constituency. 

28 Returning Officer of 28, Personal Assistant to 

Nagarkurnool (SC) par- Collector, Mahbubnagar 

liamentary constituency. 

29 Returning ' Officer of 29, Personal Assistant to 

Mahbubnagar parliamen- Collector, Mahbubnagar. 
tary constituency. 

30 Returning Officer of 30, Personal Assistant to 

Hyderabad parliamentary Collector, Hyderabad, 
constituency. 


31 Returning Officer of 31, 

Secunderabad parliamen- 
tary constituency. 

32 Returning Officer of 32 

Siddipet (SC) parlinm - 
entary constituency. 

33 Returning Officer of 33, 

Medak parliamentary 
constituency. 

34 Returning Officer of 34, 

Nizamabad parliamentary 
const iuency. 


Deputy Commissioner, Mu- 
nicipal Corporation of 

Hyderabad, Hyderabad. 

Personal Assistant to 
Collector, Medak. 

Personal Assistant to 

Collector Medak, 

Personal Assistant to 

Collector , Nizamabad. 


35 Returning Officer 9f35 Personal Assistant to 

Adilabad parliamentary Collector, Adilabad. 

constituency. 

36 Returning Officer of 36, Personal Assistant to 

Peddapalli(SC) parliam - Collector, Karimnagar. 

entary constituency. 

37 Returning Officer of 37 Personal Assistant to 

Karimnagar parliamentary Collector, Karimnagar. 
constituency. 


38 Returning Officer of 38 Personal Assistant to 

Warangal parliamentary Collector, Warangal. 

co stituency. 

39 Returning Officer of 39 Personal Assistant to 

Khammam parliamentary Collector, Khammam. 

constituency. 


40 Returning Officer of 40 Personal Assistant to 

Nalgonda parliamentary Collector, Nalgonda. 

constituency 

41 Returning Officer of 41 Personal Assistant to 

Miryalguda parliaments- Collector Nalgonda. 

ry constituency 


[No. 434/AP/72(2)] 

By Order, 

NAGASUBRAMANIAN, Secy. 

TtTomo 3 1 7 6—477 TfrfrfWT 1951 ^ SmT 

2 2 7l WT3T71 (|) 3 fTT TTtT TTPfTTt 77 5ET>T 717 jrr, 
rfffiSMRl 7'77 7?rlfil7, HTdl wfagtETT 7° 434/ 
?TTo 5T o/7 1, Tlffa 14 1971 Tit srfEn>nrl 

77% 57, twit, 4 r% 7ft ^rRdf) - % 2 Jr 

fTffrf^ ttttt! ■TftriTfl tt, rr 4 urTTfr irftTifl' 
% 11177(77701 i jt»tt sqrfw 

71541 % 777)7 f 77)77 >117 % fefiPT 7l P 7 +l 7 7^1, 77 
?7Tf777 % fc71 % TFPT 4, HfPlTT 777 % fait, 

HflTT’ trrf77T7 % 77 4, 7779 T7J f777tl 7771 

ft I 


titt) 


TTTnft^T f77)T7 ^*7 71 7?F17 fefffiT 

fell! lllfwi mrfwr 


1 


2 


777)7 ^7 71 

fefTT 7lfER7 

1. «ft7TjpnT 

2. mT'sfrjTF (7771) 

3. 

4. f7WF3 17377 

5. 731777 (7771) 

6 . 77171774) 

7. 71^7171 


77737 71 f^TTV 75177 
7rTT|77 I 
77737 71 pT3f) 75177, 
«ft7Tf77 I 
77737 71 fffisft 75177, 
> ’4Y71f77 I 
77737 77 Pi 4) 75177, 
(eOH^IHcNIH I 
771737 77 75T77, 

iSTcrnr 

771737 77 fffisf) deil77, 
f77T7T7377 I 
77737 77 fffijft 75N7, 
TtTTT^V I 



4474 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, I972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II— 


1 

tfflEtE PteTEE 

8. Tt^r E*sft 

9. STtETPfOT (tEET) 

10. 

1 1. 

12. ijfEEFEr 

13 . Preettf 

1 4- 'HVS<i)h 4*1*1 

1 5. EtEtE 

16. TO 

17. EWEFEftz 

18. EET# 

19. EcwTe (ert) 

20. fEETPr (^trsrr ) 

21. 

22. EM 9^4 

23. EE-ET 

24. 

2 5- 

26. E^E 

27. E^pTFE 

28. HHKMnfE (W) 


2 


EE E fEcfEE EFElEE 

EEfET EF Pr^fT Ef?T-7E, 
3# TtTTTft- I 
E r .i C4 * ET PteF ESTEE, 
gE EFUECV I 
EE45T EF fEEl EiFFEE, 
TpEEf EtTFECt I 
EEEfE EF pTEt OTT, 
EfEEEr EFFECT I 
EEETC EF pTEr ESFEE, 
sFEF I 

EE4ET EF PteI" EfFTEE, 

?wr i 

EETEtefPf 3 ft EfTTEE, 

2eef i 

EETEC ET PfeY E[[FEE, 
EIETE I 

EETEEEFfEEY EiEEE, 
E?£E I 

•5 c\ 

'+■•! i4 J . 411 fEEY eefee, 

' 

eee z? ei PrEt tree 

%7EtE I 

EE-TET TT FteY E;TFEE, 

eetYe i 

EEEEC EF Pi EYEErEE, 
fWC I 
c"iT4T et PfeY 
pTEE I 

EE^EC EF PtEY EEFEE, 
WT I 

EEECE ET PteY ESTEE, 

I 

eeeee ef Pr^fY ektee, 

ERETJE I 

EEE3E EF PftfY EfFFEE, 
EER37 I 

EEEEE EF pTE~Y ESTEE, 
E^T I 

EEEEC ET PrY EfTEE, 
E*fE I 

EEEEE ET pTlfY EFFETE, 
E^jEEEE I 


29. EETEEEC 

<Tv 

30. iETEF? 

31. faERiRIS 

32. (EET) 

33. TEE ee?Ye 

34. PfEFEFEFE 

3 5. ErfoEIETE 

/ 

36. ’TflT-Tr (Tiff) 

37. ECYEEEE 
33. EREE 

39. RiEErE 

40. TTT-tffEr 

41. fwriTETr 


EETTT Er PteY EfTTE, 
E£^EETE I 

EETTE EF pTEF EiTFEE, 
tERETE I 

ETF^EF, &EWE EET 
Putt oETRR i 

EEEEE El f*T jTY EEFEE, 

*YeE I 

EET2EEF Pte"Ye|fee, 
Jfee i 

ETfR Er PfeY EfFFEE, 
PTETEFEFE I 
EEER EE PteY E^FEE, 
ETfcEFETE I 

EEEECEfPteI EEFEE, 

eeYeeee I 

EETR Ef PteT EfUEE, 
e^eehe i 
ETTJEEFPteY ETFEE, 
EREE I 

EEf TC Er PteY tefee, 
ECErE I 

EEITE EF PteY EEFEE, 
rrTFfrr i 
ETETT ET PteY EEFEE, 
EFTEtEF I 


E° 434/ETo Eo/72 ( 2 )] 
EY° EFEgEEaEE, EpEE I 


MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE 

(Department of Agriculture) 

New Delhi, the 13 th September, 1972 

S.O, 3177. — In exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause (i) of rule 4 of the General Grading and 
Marking Rules, 1937, the Central Government here- 
by fixes the following charges for Agmark labels to 
be affixed on the containers of Senna Leaves and 
Pods graded under Agmark; namely : — 

(a) When the grading is done in any authorised 
premises in case of Senna leaves. — Rs. 2,50 per 

hale of 
230. Kg. 

(b) When the grading is done in any authorised 
premises in case of Senna Pods. — Rs. 2,50 per 

bale of 

230 Kg. 

[No. 13-19/68-C. & M.] 



Sec. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVJNA 29, 1894 


4475 


(|rfa f^TTB) 

fif 13 FrTRT, 1972 

Tfo SRo 3 1 7 7-HT*TP3T p T#R 7T ?TtT pTTpT Fm, 

1 937 % FETR 4 % ^ ( l) TFT 5 TTtT wf%Ff TT Ppm 

4Fd ^tr ^ % RefFr RaTtfET errt tF 

TfFPrf sfh; ffiFwf % muFff it netr rtF tt% nrTERfi 

Fwf % fair ifff'^FT FfftFtFfT 3^ FRIR 4FRt t, 

: — 

(T7) ttt R'JrfTFT RETT TTl 2.5 0 srFf 

TfwTTt % ^ ir Fpfr 2 30 Ffio tTT° ETC I 

srrftrg^r tFrt R Fftt 
wr it i 

(g-) ^TT ‘TOTt'CT ERTT 4T 2. 50 Ho 5fFr 

tFrti % m^JrFpffl' 230 Fro mo hth 
TfwT R Frt mrr £t 1 

[^ 013-1 9/68-lfl ^ te] 
New Delhi, the 15th September 1972 

S.O. 3178. — The following draft rules, which the 
Central Government propose to make, In exercise of 
the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural 
Produce (Grading and Marking) Act, 1937 (1 of 
1937), are published as required by the said section 
for the Information of all persons likely to be allcct- 
ed thereby and notice is hereby given that the said 
draft will be taken into considcsration on or after 
the expiry of a period of one month from the date 
on which the official Gazette containing this notifica- 
tion is made available to the public. 

Any objections or suggestions which may be re- 
ceived from any person with respect to the said draft 
before the date so specified, will be considered by the 
Central Government. 

Draft Rules 

The Saffron Grading and. Marketing Rules, 1972. 

1. Short title and application.— (1) These rules may 
be called the Saffron Grading and Marking Rules, 
1972. 

(2) They shall apply to saffron (Crocus sativus. 
Linnaeus) produced in India. 

2. Definitions.— In these rules, unless the context 
otherwise requires,- — 

(a) Agricultural Marketing Adviser’ means the 
Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Gov- 
ernment of India; 

(h) ‘Schedule’ means a Schedule appended to 
these rules. 

3. Grade designations, — The grade designations to 
indicate the quality of Saffron shall he as set out in 
column 2 of Schedule I. 


4, Definition of quality. — The quality of saffron In- 
dicated by the respective grade designations shall be 
as set out against each grade designation in column 
3 to 6 of Schedule I. 

5. Grade Designation marks. — The grade designa- 
tion mark shall consist of either: — 

(i) a design incorporating the number of the 
Certificate of Authorisation, the word ’Ag- 
mark’ and the grade approved by the Agri- 
cultural Marketing Adviser, or 

(ii) a label specifying the grade approved by the 
Agricultural Marketing Adviser and bearing 
the design (consisting of an outline map of 
India with the word Agmark’ and the figure 
of the rising sun with the words “Produce 
of India” and “mrffjq- reflem bling the 

one as set out in Schedule II. 

fl. Method of marking.— (1) The grade designation 
mark shall be securely affixed to or printed on each 
container in a manner approved by the Agricultural 
Marketing Adviser. 

(2) In addition to the above, the following particu- 
lars shall also be clearly and indelibly marked on 
each container, namely: — 


(a) Date of packing in code or plain letters; 

(b) Crop year; and 

(c) Net weight. 

(3) An authorised packer may, after obtaining the 
prior approval of the Agricultural Marketing Adviser, 
mark his private trade mark on a container, in a 
manner approved by the said officer, provided that 
the private trade mark does not represent a quality 
or grade of saffron different from thut indicated by 
the grade designation mark affixed to the container 
in accordance with these rules. 

7. Method of packing. — (1) Saffron shall be packed 
in only new and clean tins, glass or plastic containers, 
polythene bags, or any other suitable container. 

(2) The container shall be securely closed and 
sealed in a manner approved by the Agricultural 
Marketing Adviser, 

(3) Each container sjpall contain saffron of one 
grade designation only. 

8. Special conditions of authorisation. — In addition 
to the conditions specified in rule 4 of the General 
Grading and Marking Rules, 1937, the following 
special conditions shall be observed by packers to the 
satisfaction of Agricultural Marketing Adviser, 
namely: — 

( 1 ) An authorised packer shall make such 
arrangements for testing saffron as the Agri- 
cultural Marketing Adviser may specify by 
general or special order from time to time. 

(2) An authorised packer shall provide such faci- 
lities to the Inspecting Officers duly authoris- 
ed by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser in 
this behalf as muy be necessary for them to 
discharge their duties under these rules. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II— 


4476 


Schedule I 
(See rule 3 and 4) 

Grade designations and definitions of quality of saffron produced in India. 


SI. Grade designation j Special characteristics . Matter 

No. — — — — volatile at 

Colour Floral waste Foreign i03°c.%|by 
content, matter, weight, 

percent, ‘ percent, maximum 

maximum maximum 


Total Ash : nsol Aqueous Total 

ash % by inllel n „ extract® Nitrogen 
weight by weight by weight by weight, 

maximum maximum maximum maximum 


C x) (2) (3) '(4) (5) ( 6 ) ( 7 ) ( 8 ) ( 9 ) ( 10 ) 


1. Special . ■ Deep red 5 0’5 14 8-o* 1-5* 55 - 0 * 2* 

2. Standard , Light redish 15 i-o 

General chara- 'to bright red 

cteristics ‘ 


(«) 


Saffron shall : 

(a) be the dried full, cut or broken stigmas of the plant botanically known as Crocus sativus, Linneous ; 

(b) have the characteristic strong , aromatic, pleasent and slightly iodinated smell-with bitter and slightly pungent taste and be 

free from any foreign taste or smell, specially the musty smell or taste j 

(c) be free from living insects, and moulds, and shall be practically free from dead insects, insect fragments and rodent conta- 
mination visible to the naked eye (corrected if necessary for abnormal vision) with such magnification as may be necessary 
in the particular case ; and 

(d) not contain any added foreign colouring matter. 


Definitions 1. Floral waste Yellow filaments, pollens, staments, part of ovary and other parts of the flower of Crocus sativus 

Linnaeus. 

2. Foreign matter Sand, earth, dust, leaf, stem, chaff and other vegetable matter. 


Nttb On dry basis, i.e., moisture and volatile matter fre; basis as calculated from Column 6. Sulphuric acid di phenyl amine 

test determined by standard method. 


Schedule II 


( See rule 5) 

Design for the grade designation mark 
MAP OF INDIA 


Note The Tamil and Telugu words will not occur in the lables in case where commdodities are graded for the purpose of export. 

[No. 8-2/68-C&Mj 
T. D. Makhijani, Under Sccy. 


ff# ffefr, 15 72 

tRTo Wfo 3 178. — feufafeT STEUT feUTT TT, fak 
% 7 sfET *k 4>'K, flfa TM 4 TrfyfelB , 

1937 ( 1937 ?r l) ^ SFUT 3 TUT TTtT fffepff TT 
WET TUxT fff, «ETT% Ot TUimT TUfft TTff 9UT TUT 

ittt tttP.ut, tt TTf srfurm # ^urr % tup, farur 

EffTTUT jnnfer fnrr TFffutr I, smfer ferr tett | 

iftu Uff T T iTT qf Tt nETt | fa TTT Sm?U qT, tjrf 

mfEr *r, fan ffufa # w nfa^Err Ttmrfau: qu% 
qmr Tfq'TT TpfffT nqFun qum tut, irq; wu 

uqfsr # urnfe tttt % 'mrar fern: feu TutTur i 


faffffed' cTUCftg- TT 'JT TTT HEFT # TEET fef^ 
sqfer % TTur feff tttsttt tt giTEfr qu 
nuru: tut feru farr ttttt i 

srnjq faqn 

TUT UiffTTU TTU falU, 19 72 

i. nfarur tet uk tut jfurr. — 1 . ft ffauji 

TT TUT %3U UTTTUUT TU fern, 1972 

tEit ; 

2. % nun ir TTTTfer ( qitfar qurutn, fa stew ) 

qu 


Snc. 3(ii'/1 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4477 


2. TfitTHTT. — 7T fTTTT T TT TF PE TFT T SFTTT 
T^FT T jfp : 

(t) VRt PTTTT TTWCrr’ T, tttt tttit 
tPt PtTTT TTRFnr ttPhTT £ ; 

(t) T FT pTTTt T TTR SFJtJTp STpTTT £ 1 

3. MFTp WpTrtTTT . -%TT # TTlfTTp Ft TTrfpET 
Tot tttt <rnfp tPtjft Trr fTct ttt fr t-rttV i %■ 
TTT 2 T TTTFTT | I 

4. fTlfirrfP nft tFt*TTTT . -PlfTT TTt TpTTFff SETT 
TTcrRra %tt 5ft ttvPh<PP ar? kPtP 7ft sej'^tP 1 % tcht 
3 ft 6 if T#F »M %rfrnjR % TTPTPp TE#FT | I 

5. wBrerRr fapFr. — tPttt-t frm-Tr Ffr 

( 1 ) tt Ftt Fftift mi Pttt ttPtttt nmr tt 

Ft TESTT “PpTTpfr TT?" ?tTt’ .;rpT pTTTT TTEFEIT STTf 
SEJTtfeT ^ fr dip 5TT, TT 

(2) m nrtf r ^ror, fyrr~4 f,\i Ptttt tft- 

ttt im ttttRft ttT PePtF^? # t£ pfr tPt Ptt tt 

«T^fP 2 If mPrr pTTRT T fTTTp ^Tlt rrifp fTTT?T 

ftTP (Pttt tttt-e tft % tttt tttt % th Ptt FT 
^TBp tHT Produce of India VfTTcffT T?ITC T*T T%T TTT 

jpj ttt fwx mi I 

6. (l) ^ wfrraTT fr^Tf-fa fTTTT TTRTTT gTTT 

tfjttPtt frPr 4 sett twit tit ft 5rt£P rt ir Ft'Tft 
^>ir TT TfpTT fTTTT I 

( 2) RTF! % TpTfFFT, PtktMtT pTpTfmTf TT 
EFT tpR TpR FT T RTF TT9TT TFT TT fTp3T Fp 
TT^ifP, TTTT • 

(t) RFF fP TRpT — TT%fTF TT ETM STSTTp 4 ; 

(t ) FTT-m ; tV 
(t) st-T %TR I 

( 3 ) srrfu^T tt t , tPt Ftttt 4 ^ *n=r- 

TtTT TFT TTT % T^TTT TTT TpTTRr TITr ’TTTfpTT 
TtRf FT TT-TR TfT TT TTTT PTT> ^TrTR pT^ FpTT TT 
T%TT, TT TT TTpF fTT> 3TTTR PT^T FT pTTTT 

% TTTR TfTTC TTT TT TTr^ TT ’TTl FpTTTT Pt^ T 
5TR TIlfTT TTT T> TTrpTTt TT «T n fP T pTT T 17 fa 3 -f 
TT ‘'FTP Ff ST IT T TTTr ffl I 

7. Tf^iT ^rp T3ff?T : ( 1 ) %T T Til %TT tt qpT 

TR3 pT^TT, ItfP?f TT rqnfRp % F1ETF TTTr PP 

TTTpTrT % TTT T TT PCTP TT TT’7TT TYTl^ TIRT T 
frm jEtti i 


(2) Tr'TTT rr TT #P PtFIR TTTFTT 7 ' TTT TEHTlfsT 
TtfT if ERTfr PP TFT TpPT FTIT^T PWT TFpTT I 

(3) T ; TT: wur-c TTT if TTT rr^ ^P s-TTf nf^JFT 

T1 %TR ZTTT I 

a. srrfafRFT fiP Pttct ’“-F’rrrRT y\r f-r% 

pT-TT, 1 9 3 7 % pTTT 4 ip fTfTfTR RT? % Tf-rfEfT TTT 
TT fEr-lfTfOT mf TT TFTT yfT fTTTT TFTTFTTT % 
TTiTTmT JET FT T TTTT ZTTT Tqp^f : — 

( 1) srrP^T ^TT %HT TT TTEffT TTT T FT 
5TTT T^TT ‘'TFT pF %\n pT’FTT TTTFTTT 
TtTT-TTT TT TTTFT TT fT^TT WT^r 5TTT 
PtfiPtr ^ 1 

( 2 ) TrPtTf>T ttr, t.PV Ptt^t arm 

ft fdPTTT TfTT ITT T TrfsFfT fTTpSTT 

TffTTTfmr cr ftPP ePtet^' tttt fPtt 
3TTp Ft FT fTTipr % ETtr TPTT «Fff^f 
% PlTFT % fmr ETrTWF I 

TTTRP 1 

( fTTT 3 FfPr 4 [Wwr) 
■art ip ttttPtt trt % ^t'P tPtttt t'Pt tttFt^P 
rd tPretr 1 


TT 

’ttP 

fTTT TiT'T 


To 

^Pttr 

TT 

RT TT 

TEFTTm, 

TpTFTT 
TftTTTTT 1 

PttttPt 

TTTT TfcRTT 
TfT-TTT 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

] 

frPfT 

TFTT TTTT 

5 

0. 5 

O 

TTTF 

TTT 

T mETPrr 

5TPT 

13 

1. 0 







103°T TT TFTlfPT TR F STEFT 'TTT TT S1TTTT 
TIT % SmiTT TT TfT“ TT fW 'TTT R (TT T1 STf 
TTT TfJTRTT srfRFT TfPlTTrT TrfTTTT TTT 

TpRTT TfTTfrT 


6 

7 

8 

1-1 

8 . 0 

1 , 5 


' I pTd I' TPp : 1. irq 1 efFp : TrpET TTTFTT fPlTF-fT 5^ % 
Tt% RT, TTTT, T%TTT TfSTTT TT TFT 'SftT T^T ’^TT I 



4478 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II— 


2. fRTFTt? TTT*T : UT, fa?£V, lIvT, qvft, im.. 
NBT 5jk SPT RPTf? H?t4 I 


NR % NTBR R 

NR % HTBTP? TSP? 

Neff? f?RTf qf?- 

smiR R 

BTcl foyRT? 

feT fofjfo 


srffo? 


NffocPT 1 

9 

10 11 


5 5.0 2 %5R 

(w) TdPTfcT BTRN if 
TPTT RUT? fTWEET 
?T? ? STTT TEJ % 
ipf, TT Z iTtr JIT jsfif 

f*R ?? jpr ?ff? i 
( u) fcRcT ilk ?E% 

cfkr ITT?' Pf?BT, H$P?- 
ffteTT, TrftW, 

WT Tk £F 3 ?T sq?t- 
4f? Tt if si Tt ^'tifr 
irk fwHkr in? jjt 
ITT, fTWT % TTT? 

c\ 

ifsr n m? % w 
?>ff i 

(?) sftfnr arfkff «rk 

TR T%T sffiff ?V 
p? qwr 

fRif n?% fnipr if 
HTTTT ??f n i *a 

% fnaif ts^ n% 
(nutor?? 

jrf? nftbtt qf, 
str tt%) wri^Tf’* 
et 4 ?? ?rkf , 

Q ’ 

nRk ?T>ff sfk; fm? 

Schedule 


9 10 11 


STTfiRf % TE^TT ^ 
JJR fififf I 

(?) Ttf fwTT> I'TTT 
rt? fnrr |nt srf i 


?t? : ttt otbr r « if irht % trtr 

nff sfk Trnfk r r?r4 ip? tETT?fiT ttfaN 
nf-Tfnr ??r? kf¥rHi«FrimTT $>tt i at? 
h? ettt frffer 3 rt NTmfRr ?!> nt??^ 
TTRft-2 
(fnET s Srftrir) 
ntt ?fyyr? fR? Tt fern?? 

?R? TT TETf-TT 

kn? : :- -?y ?tt if Tff r fkmkr % qrtN 
% fnr NTtrm fam w imrf r crfaw *rk for 

BUT it ffff 1 

[ 4 ° 8-2/68-lff o irfT r^Ro] 
€fo 4fo Trnafmiff, nr Bffo i 

MINISTRY OFPETROLEUM AND CHEMICALS 
(Department of Petroleum) 

New Delhi, the 14th September 1972 

S.O. 3179. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that it is necessary in the public nterest 
that for the transport of petroleum from Sanand-34 
to GGS near SIP in Gujarat State, Pipelines should 
be laid by the Oil & Natural Gag Commission; 

And whereas it appears that for the purpose of 
laying such Pipe lines, it is necessary to acquire the 
Bight of User in the land described in the schedule 
annexed hereto; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by Sub-section (i) of the section 3 of the Petroleum 
Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land) Act, 
1962 (50 of 1962), the Central Government hereby 
declares its intention to acquire the right of user 
therein; 

Provided that any person Interested In the said 
land may, within 21 days from the date of this noti- 
fication, object to the laying of the pipelines under 
the land to the Competent Authority, Oil & Natural 
Ga3 Commission, Construction & Maintenance Divi- 
sion, Makarpura Road, Baroda-0; 

And every person making such an objection shall 
also state specifically whether he wishes to he heard 
in person or by a legal practitioner. 


PIPELINE FROM WELL NO. STANWS-34 (SIP) TO G.G.S. NEAR SIP. 
State : Gujarat Districr : Mehsana Tal : Kalol 


Village 

Survey No. 

Hectare 

Are 

P. Are 

1 IAJIPUR . 

615/3 

0 

05 

24 


615/1-A 

0 

06 

48 


615/a-B 

0 

15 

86 

THOL . 

. . 1423 

0 

07 

93 


[No. ll(4)/72-L&L.] 



Sec 3(iAJ 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASV1NA 29, 1894 


4479 


?f(T TTUpT TO1SRT 
fa*TET) 

Tiffed, 1 4 fTTOTO, 19 72 

TR ’CTTc rto 3179. — TT f-fpT TTTfT 
WTt m $PT>T ?>TT I f¥ T tf? TERTT | % 

IHFTE TlR if TOT-3 4 T ITT*-’ ?Trft> 
Tlo % ^fr Tt nq- fT.fr q^tfcTTR - % TfTOfTO 

% far TTTTTnT'T TO TOT 9TTfTO i?T TTITTif gRT faffl# 
TOE TTffTE I 

TlT TO: TO TOEt fTETT & % nrfr TO faTOT 

% toRto % fro tTTTTTTO t stfro Tfr ir ttoet 
TO RftTTOT irffsrar toto trtot £ 1 

SET;, sur, 'ifrf^ur qTf'Tsnrw (wfa % twet 
% frfSTTE TO TO i ) STftjf iTtf 1962 ( 1 0 G 2 50) 

TO HRT 3 TO TTORT ( 1 ) TITT TOrT EfTOR TO SETET 

fir %isf>T T^TOT T WE TTOEf sfTT SrftlTOT *tTw 
TORT TO TOKfT STRUT ndr/TET TlfTO fTOTT t I 

TOT fr ffT 'tjftT ir fgTTO TOf SirfTT, TIT trflT % 
tIt 1 TrwmTOi f?Bpr % fw srr«ro tot TTfaroTl, - — 

n^r wr tot fro ifa strobr , fhRW ffh; 

SNnTTT TOET, TTTJIT TtT T8TOT-9 TO W Srfa/lTOlT 
%t TTT>4 iT 2 1 fTOt T RETT fir RTOlT I 

Th- rf*TT TOW TOTO TOTO FT TOfTO fafhtkrz ifj? 
TO TOET TOW far WT TO TOTOT t far TTOf TpiTrf TOfar 
FT TT fTTf faffT TOTTTTtft qrV TOTTO I 


Tpr^fr 


frrt w ttto-3 4 (titt mi ft) ft trir mf ft % 

WTO # TO rrjT TTTOTOfn fatjfa T faE 


T3ir 

-■ I T3RPT 

Pj)<f i~+tdtu r f( d|ii4iT. 

ITFT 

rmpir TTinT 

8 TOT 

etit i 

rt *rrr f 


615,13 

0 

05 

24 


615/1 -0 

0 

06 

48 


615/T-^t 

0 

15 

86 

TTE 

14 23 

0 

0 7 

93 


[To 1 1 ( 4 ) / 7 2-^TTO ETO Jrfaw] 
JVeu> Delhi, the 16tli September 1972 

S.O, 3180. — Whereas it appears io the Central 
Government that it ia necessary in the public interest 
that for the transport of petroleum from Kadi- 10 to 
Kadi-4 j n Gujarat State, Pipelines should be laid by 
the Oil and Natural Ga s Commission; 

And whereas it appears that for the purpose of 
laying such Pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the 
Right of User in the Ignd described in the schedule 
annexed hereto; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferr- 
ed by sub-section (i) of the section 3 of tho Petro- 
leum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land) 
Act, 1982 (50 of 1962), the Central Government 
hereby declares its Intention to acquire the right of 
user therein; 

Provided that any person interested in the said 
land may, within 21 days from the date of this noti- 
fication, object to the laying of the pipelines under 
the land to the Competent Authority, Oil and Natural 
Gas Commission Construction and Maintenance Divi- 
sion, Makarpura Road, Baroda-9; 

And every person making such an objection shall 
also stale specifically whether he wishes to be heard 
in person Or by a legal practitioner. 


SCNEDULE 

Pipeline From D.S, Kadi- lo To Kadi-4 


State : Gujarat 

Dist ; 

Mcitasana 


Tal : Kadi 

Village 

Survey No. 

Hectare 

Are 

P. Arc 

LAXMIPURA . 

274/1 & 2 

0 

06 

73 


273 

0 

03 

66 


„ 27 2 

0 

00 

7 5 


V. P. Cart track 

0 

04 

39 


269/2 

0 

13 

73 

KADI .... 

1962 

0 

05 

43 


V.P. Cart track 

0 

02 

62 


V.P. Cart track 

I 

02 

48 


Tf fcrot, 18 focT^n:, 1972 

TT o TTT o 3180. — TTP %EftT TTPFTT ^ 

y?Tta sldl 1% rjjaifjid T wIEqn t i]4 fid 

<i' j 4 if ^141 /l 0 ft Tiisl 4 ^tfriPT % h f 


[No. ll(3)/72-LScL,] 

TTfTTTtT cETT STT^rfTT^T % TRET IRT 
31Eft TT{|^ I 

’4*1 1 tRT: Mcfld gjtTT ^ f^T vTreiff EFf fTEJEf 
% Thprd % fri^r oqr’Hrcj Jr Tfarr ir 

twEt vfm wrm heht ’ h | i 


4480 


[Part U— 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASV1NA 29, 1894 


SET W, TT^RHR Jr RWPT 

% ’ErfSEEF TT STCR) srfyfwT, 1962 ( 1962 4T 
50) ts *TRI 3 4?r dTOTU (l) 5HT STTH SlftdTT 
tt jptEt sfT# m rronr dTdJr rwto R 

wftpfnr wfjtd “FtE w m m h ?rrw 64 ^41 <j ^ttPet 
ferr | 1 

TOffe TTO '4jfJT it f?<T5r5^ Rfad, 

TnETHTT-T fJrapl % fail WRffT WTR HlftEERt Ifcr 

cim % wroEr, fkrW sfk shtet, 

iREgn ft? tsEtt -9 Tit ?r !Tftr^ETT RTfta 

% 2 1 fkff % tftcR 4R R^TT I 

?fk ert srrar dkt stett 57; srfrT fEErfeR d? 
r *fr wr Tkir f% wr df rt?ett % 
sEfw: fr dr fkft fkf%r ^dddpft ft dm i 

ft a TT*T o ^\ft - 1 0 Jr TTOt 4 (Efi TnpTTRE 


did RdWT Rddf tTo?JR 0 fo <ft troSnTof o 


1962 

0 

05 

43 

*ftft dd 

0 

.. 02 

62 

ft kt +l^+- 

1 

02 

48 


[r ° 1 1/3/72 #dr <k ^rfkrr] 


S.O. 3181.— Whereas It appears to the Central 
Government that it is necessary in the public interest 
that for the transport of petroleum from Well No. 
50 to GGSI in Gujarat State, Pipelines should be laid 
by the Oil and Natural Gas Commission; 


And Whereas it appears that for the purpose of 
laying such Pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the 
Right of User in the land described! in the schedule 
annexed hereto; 


pOd : fT'dKd fjpTT : fisdidT dhi+l : <t>l£l 

O - o 


fitd ddiSEd li (, d 1 

Ider q°srn; 

°i o^c.?tr:o^ 0 

HWtgrr 274/1 ddi 2 

0 

06 

73 

273 

0 

03 

66 

272 

0 

00 

75 

o'JV “fiTftSJ di 

0 

04 

39 

269/2 

0 

13 

73 


Now, Therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by Sub-section (i) of the section 3 of the Petroleum 
Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land) Act, 
1962 (50 of 1062), the Central Government hereby 
declares its intention to acquire the right of user 
therein; 


Provided that any person interested in the said land 
may, within 21 days from the date of this notification, 
object to the laying of the pipelines under the land 
to the Competent Authority, Oil and Natural Gas 
Commission, Construction and Maintenance Division, 
Markarapura Road, Baroda-9. 


And every person making such an objection shall 
also state specifically whether he wishes to be heard 
in person or by a legal practitioner. 


Schedule 


PIPELINE FROM WELL NO. 50 (KFQ) TO G.G.S. I 


Stato : Gujarat Dist : Gandhinagar Tal : Gausdhinagar 


Village 

Survey No. 

Hectare 

Are 

P. Arc 

sertha . 

696 

0 

OO 

31 


695 

0 

oR 

9i 


694 

0 

02 

40 


693 

0 

09 

21 


692 

0 

06 

45 


799 

0 

14 

61 


719 

0 

92 

IX 


[No. 20(3)/67-IOC/L&L Vol HI.] 


qrToSfTc 3181- — dd: %R(td fi •"tiRTt d? Tdtd 
ftdT | d?*TTdddT £ % tpRTd %T^ JT 

gran pit — 50 Jf dfto dft o Efr° — 1 dr tJjtfdfdd % 

qfpTSd % fJpt 'TT^TRTVT dd ddT fcr Wdtd 

jfTTT fdBfif 'dfift Rfl^ I 


5(k dd: d? ddtd ?tdT I ffil d*ff dT?d)r *fit 
% wRpt % Rdrarm iwj’dt Jr dfw wfd 

Jf Tpfpr m dfwr 7 : 5?f%R t'rt £ 1 

#d: SR, 'T^TfddR qr^qmsd ('fif'd d S9d.fi % 
Wfdddfi STdd ) ?lfdfddd, 1962 ( 1 962 dd 



Snc. 3(i;)] 


r l HE GAZE ME 01- INDIA: OCTOBER 21, M72/ASVINA 29, 1 804 4481 


50 ) # ktzt 3 r^ ntrtzt ( 1 ) jrzr are AfaRRt rt 
snfr»r rz?T gr^stR err arrta rt aPr- 

rtzrIrr re% rt wj etw RtfRA fwr 

% 1 

RRTA fR TRA A fZAAW Rif wfrl, AR Rfa R 
AT A TrE'ET^A fA3Et % fzEt meo W ArfSTRFL 

#- 3 - art air fiR "iff retta, ee zwr 

'CHIT, RRZTZT ZTT, RZTRT-9 Rt IN AfsPJAAT RT 
4F>T Jr 2 1 fRAT % ATAZ AZ EI%AT 1 

q"rz i>4t ret 9 re% rtat hz ^aPet Wa%h4: 
ar At raa r>rt fR rat rz aiart I fR tart 

RAArf wffARA AT AT fRZtt f*tf'-l ZARRETT Rt A TRB I 
RRARt 

RRT tfZAT 50 (% RAJAa) R wfc iffo rrqo J AR 
RTTAATSA 

rfirx : 47 mA fRAT : ATHfARZ AT'AR : AWtARE 


RtR EARN RRqT 

fRZZ 

IT RTZ i 

<ft rr RTZ f 

693 

0 

09 

21 

692 

0 

06 

45 

799 

0 

1 i 

61 

719 

0 

92 

1 1 

[RZRT 20/3/67- 

-RTfoRIo ffto /RZi OPR RR, 

5 ) fRZRHii] 


S.O. 3182. — Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that it is necessary in the public interest 
that for the transport of petroleum from Well No. 153 
to GGSV in Gujarat State, Pipelines should be laid by 
the Oil and Natural Gas Commission; 

And whereas it appears that for the purpose of 
laying suet, Pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the 
Right of User in the land described in the schedule 
annexed hereto; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (i) of the section 3 of the Petroleum 
Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land) Act, 
19(32 (50 of 19(32), the Central Government hereby 
declares its intention to acquire the right of user 
therein. 


RTR RR-iR RZRT 

fjREZ 

<7 RTZ f 

Rf R RTZ f 

zrzm 696 

0 

00 

31 

695 

0 

OH 

91 

694 

0 

02 

4 0 


State : 


Village 


Provided that any person interested in the said 
land may, within 21 days from the date of this noti- 
fication, object to the laying of the pipelines under the 
land to the Competent Authority, Oil and Natural 
Gas Commission, Construction and Maintenance Divi- 
sion, Mukarpuru Road, Bsroda-D; 

And every person making such an objection shall 
also state specifically whether he wishes to be heard 
in person or by a legal practitioner. 

. 1 ; 

NO. K-153 (KI-IH) TO G.G.S.V. 

Dist : Mohsana Tal : Knlol 


Hectare Arc P. Arc. 


6 CHF.nui.ii 

PIPELINE FROM WELL 
Gujarat 

Survey No. 


VADABVSWAMI . 132 


RM tRo 3182. — RR: RTTTZ Rt Af 

sTrfcr fjtcrr | fr m-Lffpr fr ar rtrwr £ f% razet 
J r rrt a rat 153 A sftsft rr-V at RjTfRRR 
% qfzAZA % Par qr-?q at»a aw rat air Par rr 
TEAT A RR fmf AR r T qrfzA I 

rV. RA: AZ RATA ftAV £ fRiJRT AIZAf RT fRfJTA 
R TATRA % fRR ORZqrARA RARAf A AfAA Rfn R 
ARAM AT AfARTZ E%A RE.,- RTA'WR £ I 

TEL, RA q^rf^TTR RRTWT^A (RfR A ARRET 
% AfARrZ RT AAR ) RfjfAAR, 1962 ( 1 902 RT 
5 9) Rif RTZT 3 AT ATATZT (l) 3TFr RAW ATfRTRT 
Rl AA>A RZR R?5tA AZRTZ A RAA RtRtR RT 
APART Z ApRA ReR Rf RThl RTR4 RREgTET RTfuR 

Trrt I ( 

RR7 fR RLR RfR R fZ'TR.al Rtf TRffR RR r ^fR 
% RT% REM REM f43El R fRR RiG RR'iT RlfR- 


o 04 27 

[No. 20(3)/67-IOC/L & L-VOL.III.] 
R, N. CHOPRA, Under Secy. 

REEL — 7R (PIT RIR.fRR >1 r RlRtR, fnRIR Rfr 

RN'RIW RRfR, RREijtj- ijr,, RTlRT-9 RT LA RftHRRT 

fr RlftN % 2 1 fgRi % RtrRRZflRRT I 

RLE (*RT Rpf r f RvJt RTRT ZZ ZRfRR fqfqtRWR ' 

Eg AT R4R RZRT fR RUT RZ RTR7T t ff. TRzTT RRhlf 

fl RT fRRT M‘J ®ER R [RT A RTRiR I 

zrrrV 

RRTRRRT R-153 (% Era f) V, 3ft RT 'ER V RR 
RT^TZTTsR 

RW : RAT .’R fnETT : RRRTRT RTRRT : RRTA 

rtr etrVir rrrt £rzz RWiEf n't r m 7 f 


RTRR rryifr 132 0 0 1 2 7 

[EM 20 / 3/ P 7— ZTlf Rl Rt/ORo UL RR-fRRi II] 
RTZ^Ro RRZ Rf«q I 


44^2 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASV1NA 29, 1894 


[Part II- 


CE3V.TRAL excise collectorate, paldl 

AHMED ABAD 

Central Excise 

Ahmedabad, the 15th April 1972 

S.O. 3183. — In exercise of the powers conferred on 
me under Rule 61 of the Central Excise Rules, 1944, 
as Collector of Central Excise, Ahmedabad, the fol- 
lowing instructions are issued for the manufacturers 
of power driven pumps falling under Item No. 30A of 
the 1st schedule to the Central Excise & Salt Act, 1944, 
(1 of 1944), since it is very expedient for the manu- 
facturers of said power driven pumps to assign dis- 
tinguishing marks for identification of their excisable 
products. 

The manufacturers of power driven pumps shall 
assign the following distinguishing marks on a plate 
affixed on the pump itself or such distinguishing marks 
may be prominently engraved on the pump-body: — 

(1) Name of the manufacturer, L4 number and 
situation of the factory; and 

(2) Factory running serial number and year. 

This notification takes effect from 1st May, 1972. 

[No. 1/1972.1 

M. K. PUNSHI, 
Collector. 

WjWRffK, 15 nfcr, 1972 

3 1 83 — fffffj'T?, + T/ffiTn Tfffff- 

ffiffrc, % tPT Jr, ijer Tt wf'FFit JTTff # »rt Tdrr rtet 

<FT% Jtr, 1944 % ( 1944 7T l) 

NTN TTfaiffTT 'Pf Tdff ffTo % ^ffffff 

WT TT% fffN'TTRt % ’TffffnffFim % faff fatff- 

fafaff frd hft £ i ~-ft fwff fffaff tftt 

% fffapTfffarff'T p'r, ntt ttp-t bt^ Tfar tnitt qy, 

% faff, fff'ffffT faff! TrNnT SRfffaffT ZTffWtt I 

Nfar Ji wr fffa T^f % fffafafffar m fa, 
& fnT=-i fTfNTT faWP faql TIT T T Tfft ff fafa 97 fffffff 
fafa ffT it ffaff Iff? ffffT 7 T FT R fafaff faff Ttir'a | 

(1) STfafafafffaT TT fffff, faf c 4 ff Ifo dNT 
dffTNFt dft fafffff I 

( 2 ) TffT'ffrff 7 ft ^ T- wr tni tt i 

ff? fff 19 72 if Tiff fafa I 

[ffcr 1 / 1 972 ] 
tTtTo ffffTfffa I 


ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 

New Delhi, the 30th August 1972 

S.O. 3184.- — In pursuance of section 106 of the Re- 
presentation of the People Act, 1951, the Election 
Commission hereby publishes the decision dated the 
20Lh July, 1972 of the High Court of Judicature at 
Patna in Election Petition No. 10 of 1971. 

Election Petition No. 10 of 1971 
Sri Mahabir Paswan V. Sri Jagjivan Ram and others. 

Today is the date fixed for commencing the hear- 
ing of this election petition. This date of hearing was 
fixed under this Court’s order No. 61 dated 4th July, 
1972. As that order will show, the election petitioner 
wanted adjournment Of the hearing of the case for a 
month to enable him to move the Supreme Court 
against the orders of this Court which had been passed 
on the preceding day as also earlier. After having 
heard the two sides though ordinarily I was not in- 
clined to adjourn the hearing of the case any further 
in view of its hearing having already been delayed 
tout I allowed the petitioner two weeks’ time from 
that day (4th July, 1972) to obtain stay orders, if any, 
from the Supreme Court. It was, however, made 
clear in that very order that if the petitioner failed 
to bring stay orders fom the Supreme Court by that 
time the hearing of the case would he positively 
taken up on 20th July, 1972 and the petitioner was 
directed to bring his witnesses, for whom he had 
already taken dasti summons, at the rate of five wit- 
nesses per day as already fixed. 

It is to be noted that this election petition' was 
filed on 26th April, 1971 and It was admitted on 
13th May, 1971. Several dates intervened in the 
meanwhile on which orders had to be passed on the 
prayers made mostly on behalf of the petitioner. 
Eventually the lssue 3 In the case were settled on 7th 
January, 1972 in presence of the parties. Thereafter 
also the case dragged on for several dates cn which 
necessary orders were passed regading the prayers 
of the parties. On 4th May, 1972, which was before 
this Court closed for the annual vacation, the hearing 
of this election petition was fixed to commence from 
3rd July, 1972 (Court opened after the annual vacation 
on 26th June, 1972). On that day (4th May, 1972) the 
petitioner’s request for issue of dasti summons to 
his witnesses, which had already been filed was allow- 
ed and they were ordered to be summoned at the rate 
of five witnesses per working day commencing from 
3rd July, 1972. When the matter was placed before 
the Court on 3rd July, 1972, which was the date 
fixed for the commencement of the hearing of this 
case, on behalf of the election petitioner my 
attention wag invited to his four petitions, two dated 
1st July, 1972 and the other two dated 3rd July, 1972. 
After hearing both sides I passed necessary orders on 
these petitions on 3rd July, 1972 rejecting all of 
them. At that very time I also rejected the peti- 
tioner’s prayer for adjournment of the case. This 
having been done learned petitioner’s counsel was 
called upon to commence the hearing and state the 
facts of the case on his behalf so that recording of the 
evidence, as fixed from before, could commence from 
the next day, i,e. 4th July, 1972. Learned Counsel, 



4f.c. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4483 


however, stated that he would inform the Court next 
day (4th July, 1972) aa to what steps he would take 
against those rejections of his petitions. He further 
said that if necessary he would request the Court 
to grant him time to move the Supreme Court against 
them. Since by that time it was 3.55 P,M. and there 
was no sufficient time left to take up the hearing of 
the case the matter was left at that place with a direc- 
tion to learned petitioner’s counsel to come prepared 
on 4th July, 1972 to commence the hearing of the 
case. He was also asked to bring his witnesses in 
Court for their evidence or, 4th July, 1972 (those wit- 
nesses had been summoned for 3rd July, 1972), It was 
also made clear to him that if he liked to move this 
Court for time to go to the Supreme Court he must 
do so in the first hours on the next day (4th July, 
1972) so that if that prayer was not allowed the hearing 
could commence in time. 

When the case wag called out on 4th July, 1972, 
learned counsel for the petitioner informed the Court 
of his decision to move the Supeme Court against its 
orders passed on 3rd July, 1972 as also against some 
other orders passed earlier, and, accordingly, he pray- 
ed for one month’s time to enable him, to move the 
Supreme Court. He was, however, allowed two 
weeks’ time for that purpose. It is to he noted that 
though those earlier orders had been passed by this 
Court much before but the petitioner never thought 
of going to the Supreme Court against any of them nor 
he ever requested, this Court for time to enable him to 
go to the Supreme Court against any of them. 

When the case has been called out today Mr. Gorakh 
Nath Singh, learned counsel for the petitioner has 
requested for further adjornment of the hearing on 
the ground that as his information goes the petitioner 
is not at Patna hut is away to Delhi at present for 
moving the Supeme Court against the above orders of 
this Court Mr. Singh does not, however, disclose 
any basis for this information. It is submitted from 
the petitioner’s side that the other side has also 
consented to the adjournment Mr. Kamala Kant Pra- 
sad, learned counsel for the respondent, however, says 
that he has no need for adjournment and is ready to 
take part in the hearing commenced, but If the Court 
is inclined to grant adjournment to the petitioner, as 
prayed for, he will not stand in the way and it is for 
the Court to decide whether he should be given fur- 
ther adjournment in the circumstances. As I have 
already noted, the hearing of the case was firmly 
fixed for today, i.e. 20th July, 1972 In case the peti- 
tioner failed to bring stay order from the Supreme 
Court by this time. No intimation fom the Supreme 
Court has been received till now by this Court re- 
garding the petitioner’s having moved lhat Court so 
far. There is also nothing from any Advocate of the 
Supreme Court that the Supreme Court has already 
been moved or is about to be moved by this petitioner 
In this matter. In these circustances it is not at all 
possible to accommodate the petitioner any more with 
further adjournment of the hearing. He should have 
realised the importance of the firm order of this Court 
dated 4th July, 1972 under which he was allowed two 
weeks’ time to enable him to move the Supreme 
Court, as desired, and bring stay order, if any, and 
failing that the hearing would positively commence 
from today (20-7-72). But not to speak of bringing 
any stay order from the Supeme Court there is no 
authentic information placed before this Court on 
petitioner’s side to show that he has actually initiated 
ahy action in the Supreme Court against any of the 
above referred to orders of this Court for which he 
had been allowed two weeks’ adjournment under this 
Court’s order dated 4th July. 1972. This electioh peti- 
tion having been filed on 26th April, 1971 is toy now 
15 months old. Section 86 (7) of the Representation of 
the People Act, 1951 enjoins that every election peti- 
tion shall be tried as expeditiously as possible and 
endeavour shall be made to conclude the trial within 
six months from the date on which the election petition 
is presented to the High Court for trial. It is thus 
manifest that any further adjournment of the hearing 
of this case for which no sufficient ground has been 


made out by the petitioner will amount to adding to 
the delay which has already taken place in completing 
the hearing of this case within the scheduled time. 

On the above facts the prayer for adjournment of 
the case as made by Mr, Gorakh Nath Singh is reject- 
ed and he is called upon to commence the hearing. I 
am even prepared to accommodate him to the extent 
that he should state his facts of the case, whereafter, 
I shall hear the facts of the other side by his counsel, 
who is present, and commence the recording of the 
evidence of petitioner’s witnesses from tomorrow. 
Mr. Singh, however, expreses his inability to take up 
any step today in connection with the hearing because 
of absence of his client and for want of necessary ins- 
tructions in the matter and leaves court room to attend 
to his other work, Tire circumstances, as they are, 
creates an uneasy feeling in my mind that the peti- 
tioner lacks the usual enthusiasm of an election peti- 
tioner to have the case heard as soon as possible. On 
the other hand, for reasons best known to him, he is 
anyhow trying to delay its disposal which is unlike 
an election petitioner whose anxiety normally is to 
have the petition heard without any undue delay so 
that he can reap the fruit of his success, if any. In 
such a situation, there seems no way out but to reject 
his prayer for further adjournment as done, and to 
dismiss this election petition for default, which I must 
observe is due to the non-cooperative attitude of the 
petitioner. 

Section 57 of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951, requires every election petition to be tried by 
the High Court as nearly as may be, in accordance 
with the procedure applicable under the Code of Civil 
Procedure 1908 to the trial of suits, subject to the 
provision of this Act and rules made thereunder. 
There Is nothing in this Act and rules made thereunder 
it which can be interpreted as requiring the Court t® 
drag on an election petition even if the petitioner 
does not choose to prosecute the petition or lead evi- 
dence. In the Bench decision of this Court in Sawalie 
Behari Lall Verma V. Tribikram Deo Narain Singh 
and others (A.I.R, 1965 Patna 373) it has been clear- 
ly laid down that if the petitioner does not take steps 
when the case is fixed for hearing, it is the inherent 
jurisdiction of the Tribunal to dismiss the election 
petition and the position, indeed, would be a baffling 
one if it were to be laid down that even if the peti- 
tioner chose not to prosecute a petition or lead 
evidence, the Tribunal must go on with the case. 

On the facts and circumstances stated above, I dis- 
miss this election petition for default of the petitioner. 
In the circumstances of the case there will be, how- 
ever, no order as to costs. 

Let the substance of this decision he intimated imme- 
diately to the Election Commission of India and the 
Speaker of the Lok Sabha and also send an authenti- 
cated copy of the decision to the Election Commission 
of India. 

(Sd.) C. P. Sinha. 

Deputy Registrar. 

[No. 82/BR/10/71.] 

New Delhi, the 27 th September 1972 

S.O, 3185. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (1) of Section 13A of the Representation 
of the People Act, 1950, the Election Commission of 
India, in consultation with the Delhi Administration, 
hereby nominates Shri Rajnikant, Secretary (Law and 
Judicial), Delhi Administration, as the Chief Electoral 
Officer for the Union Territory of Delhi from the fore- 
noon of the 23rd September, 1972 and until further 
orders. 


[No. 1 54/DL/72.J 



4484 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Past IT 


New Delhi, the 29th September 1972 

S.O. 3186.— In pursuance of section 106 of the Repre- 
sentation of the People Act, 1951 (43 of 1951), the 
Election Commission hereby publishes the Order, dated 
the 0th August, 1971 and 19th May, 1972 of the High 
Court of Delhi in Election Petition No. 2 of 1971. 

IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI. 

Election Petition No, 2 of 1971. 

Shri Kanwar Lai Gupta, Ex-member of Parlia- 
ment (Lok Sabha), resident of 2256/62, Mad- 
ganj, Sadar Bazar, Delhi — Petitioner. 

Versus 

1. Shri Amar Nath Chawla. resident of FXV/7643, 

Ram Nagar, New Delhi. 

2. Shri F. R. Khan, resident of 387, Hauz Qazi, 

Delhi. 

3. Shri Chuni Lai, r/o XV/6095, Gali Basti Mandtr 

Sat Narain, Nabi Karim, New Delhi. 

4. Shri All Mohd. Qabarlstan Mandodia, Mir Dard 

Road, New Delhi. 

5. Shri Jal Parkash, r/o 2281/83, Madganj, Sadar 

Bazar, Delhi. 

Election Petition under section 80A to 84 of the 
Representation of People Act, praying that this Hon’ble 
Court be pleased: — 

(a) to set aside the election of respondent No. 1 
and held that the same is void. 

(b) to declare that the petitioner has been duly 
elected to the Lok Sabha from Delhi Sadar 
Parliamentary Constituency. 

(c) to pass such other orders as required under 
section 99 of the Act. 

(d) any other relief which this Hon’ble Court 
may deem fit and proper in the circumstances 
of the case. 

(e) Award cost of the proceedings. 

This the 0th day of August, 1971. 

Present: 

The Hon'ble Mr. Justice S. N, Andley 

For the petitioner : Mr. S. N. Marwaha with M/s. Ashok 
Marwaha and K. C, Dua, Advocates, 

For the respondents : Mr. D. D. Chawla with M/s, M. K. 
Chawla and V. P. Nanda, Advocates. 

Judgment.— This petition has been filed by Kanwar 
Lai Gupta to challenge the election of Amar Nath 
Chawla, respondent No, 1, to the Lok Sabha in the 
General Elections which were held in March, 1971. 
The other contesting candidates are respondents Nos. 
2 to 5. Respondent No. 1, the returned candidate, has 
filed his written statement In which, apart from the 
reply on merits, several preliminary objections have 
been raised. Two of the contesting and defeated can- 
didates have els® filed their written statements. The 
petitioner has filed his replication to the written state- 
ment filed by respondent No. 1. 

On July 16. 1971, four Issues which were ordered to 
he treated as preliminary Issues were framed and this 
order will dispose of the aforesaid preliminary Issues. 


The following dates were fixed by the Election Com- 
mission for various matters in connection with the 
aforesaid election: — 

February 1 to 8, 1971 — Nomination papers were 
invited and could be filed during this period 
(both dates inclusive). 

February!), 1971 — Date for scrutiny. 

February 11, 1971 — Last date for withdrawal of 
nomination papers, 

March 5, 1971— Date of poll, if necessary. 

March 10, 1971 — Dates for counting of votes. 


The election challenged by this petition was from the 
Delhi Sadar Parliamentary Constituency. 

The first Issue Is: 

“Whether paragraphs 9, 12, 18 to 21 and 24 to 26 
of the petition or any of them lack in the 
statement of material facts and full particu- 
lars? If so, what -effect. 

Before I deal with these paragraphs separately it 
may be proper to state the scope of section 83 £l)(a) & 
(b) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, 
hereinafter referred to as the ‘1951 Act’. Section 83 
provides for the contents of the petition and the first 
requirement, of clause (a) of sub-section (1) is that it 
shall contain a concise statement of the material facts 
on which the petitioner relies. Clause (b) of sub- 
section (1) requires that an election petition shall set 
forth full particulars of any corrupt practice that the 
petitioner alleges. Including as full a statement as 
possiMe of the names of the parties who are alleged to 
have committed s uch corrupt practice and the date and 
place of the Commission of each such practice. I may 
here state that it is the contention of the petitioner that 
the petition does not suffer from any of these defects 
and that, in any event, particulars have been supplied 
In the replication filed by the petitioner. 

Quite a few authorities have been cited at the bar 
bringing out the distinction between "material facts" 
and "particulars” but I do not think it is necessary to 
deal with all of them as this distinction has been 
brought out and explained by the Supreme Court in 
Samant N, Balakrishna etc. v, George Fernandez and 
others, reported in A. I. R. 1909 Supreme Court 1201. 
The learned Chief Justice has stated: — 

“The word 'material' shows that the facts necessary 
to formulate a complete cause of action must 
be stated. Omission of a single material fact 
leads to an Incomplete cause Of action and the 
statement of claim becomes bad. The function 
of particulars is to present as full a picture of 
the cause of action with such further informa- 
tion in detail as to make the opposite party 
understand the ease be will have to meet 
There may be some overlapping between 

material facts and particulars but the two are 
quite distinct." 

Again, — 

“In stating the material facts It will not do merely 
to quote the words of the section because then 
the efficacy of the words 'material facts’ will 
be lost. The fact which constitutes the corrupt 
practice must be stated and the fact must be 
correlated to one of the heads of Corrupt 
practice. Just as a plaint without disclosing 
a proper cause of action cannot be said to be 
a good plaint, so also an election petition' with- 
out the material fact relating to a corrupt 
practice Is no election petition at all. A peti- 
tion which merely cites the sections cannot be 
said to disclose a cause of action where the 
allegation is the making of a false statement” 



Slc. 3t.ii )i 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 2% 1894 4485 


In a later decision reported in A.I.R. 1970 Supreme 
Court 276 in re : Jitendra Bahadur Singh v. Krishna 
Behari and others it was observed that the materia] 
tacts required to be stated are those facts which can 
be considered as material supporting the allegations 
made. In other words they must be such facts as to 
afford a basis for the allegations made in the petition- 

As I understand these decisions material facts' are 
those which constitute the cause ol action or in other 
words they are facts on the basis of which one or other 
of the grounds set out in section 100 ol the 1951 Act 
for declaring an election to be void is made out while 
‘particulars’ are with rcpect to the material facts 
alleged. 

Paragraph 9 of the petition merely asserts that the 
election of the respondent No, 1 is void and Is liable to 
be set aside by this Court on the grounds which are 
enumerated. The grounds enumerated are merely a 
paragraph of some of the clauses of section 100 of 
th e 1951 Act without saying anything more. This 
paragraph is in the nature of a general statement o. 
the case of the petitioner and is connected with sub- 
sequent paragraphs wherein specific pleas have beer; 
raised with respect to the grounds. It is, therefore, 
not necessary to consider whether paragraph 9 is or is 
not in compliance with the provisions of section 83 
(l)(a) and fb) of the 1951 Act and it is not necessary 
to strike off this paragraph either for lack of a concise 
sta'emenL of material facts or for lack of particulars. 
The fate of this paragraph will depend upon the fate 
o: the other paragraphs in which details of the grounds 
have been given. 

Paragraph 12 of the petition alleges that the election 
was held on the basis of imperfect and defective elec- 
toral rolls and, for this reason, the election of respon- 
dent No. 1 was void and was liable to be set aside- It 
Is not necessary to decide this Issue in relation to this 
paragraph as in my discussion of Issue No. 2 I am 
making an order that this paragraph is to be struck oft 

In substance, the allegations In paragraphs 18 and 19 
of the petition are that invalid and void ballot papers 
which had been treated to a mechanical and chemical 
process were substituted and were counted as valid 
votes in favour of respondent No. 1. The cause of 
action which is alleged falls within the scope of sec- 
tion 100(1) (d) (111) and (iv) Of the 1951 Act. The 
material facts which have given rise to this cause ol 
action are that these invalid and void ballot papers 
had been treated to a mechanical and chemical process 
a 3 a result of which a mechanically imprinted mark 
appeared on the ballot paper while the mark made by 
the voter disappeared. In other words, the allegatioi 
1* that the mark on these ballot papers was not made 
by the instrument supplied for the purpose In violation 
of rule 56 (2) (b) and (h) of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961. In my view, the material facts which 
constitute the cause of action have been given. In so 
far ag full particulars are concerned it Is alleged fhni 
they could not be given as the Election Commission did 
not permit inspection of these ballot papers on applica- 
tion by the petitioner. Even so, some parti culnrg may 
be necessary and they have been specified in the 
Schedule annexed to this order. 

Paragraph 20 recites some of the corrupt practices 
which are alleged to have been committed by respon- 
dent No. 1, his election agent and other persons with 
the consent of respondent No. 1 or his election agent 
These corrupt practices, shortly stated, are the printing 
and publication of hand bills and posters attacking the 
personal character of the petitioner. It is alleged that 
the statements made therein were false which the 
respondent No. 1, his election agent and other person; 
acting with their consent believed to be false or did 
hoi believe to be true in relation to the personal 
character or conduct of the petitioner which statements 
were reasonably calculated to prejudice the prosce"ts 
of the petitioner’s election. Then it is stated that 


respondent No. 1, hie election agent, Jai Parkash Goel, 
and other persons printed and published hand bills ahu 
posters during the election period containing allegation.-, 
against the personal character of the petitioner which 
are set out: 

Paragraph 21 alleges that these posters were pa. tea 
at various places in the entire constituency and were 
conspicuously displayed with a view to lower the 
petitioner in the eyes and estimation of the voters ol 
the constituency and to cause prejudice to the proepeety 
of the election ol the petitioner. The place where 
these posters were printed has also been mentioned. 
In my opinion paragraphs 20 and 21 do not suffer from 
lack of a concise statement of material facts and 
comply with the provisions of section 83 (l)(a) of Ihe 
1951 Act. However, full particulars have not been 
given and 1 order the petitioner to supply the particu- 
lars a s mentioned in the Schedule to this order. 

Paragraph 24 charges respondent No. 1 and Jai 
Parkash Goel who is alleged to be an active worker 
and agent of respondent No. 1. It is alleged that 
meetings were held and in such meetings, respondent 
No. 1 and Jai Parkash Goel made statements attacking 
th e personal character of the petitioner a* are contained 
in Annexure ’D’ to the petition which Is a poster. In 
this paragraph also facts constituting the cause of 
action have been mentioned when read with annexure 
'D\ Therefore, paragraph 24 does not suiter from lack 
of a concise statement of material facts. However, 
:«ome further particulars are required and they are 
mentioned in the Schedule to thl R order. 

Paragraph 25 of the petition alleges a contravention 
of sub-section (3) Of section 77 of the 1951 Act which 
provides that the total of the expenditure incurred by 
the candidate at an election shall not exceed the 
prescribed limit which in the case of the present 
constituency wag placed at Rs. 10,090/- and the excess 
of expenditure over the prescribed limit is one of the 
corrupt practices as provided by sub-section (6) of 
Section 123 of this Act for which the election of the 
returned candidate can be declared to be void. 

The allegation# In paragraph 20 of tho petition are 

that respondent No. 1 and his election agent incurred 
or authorised expenditure In contravention of section 77 
of the extent of about Rs. 5 lacs while the prescribed 
limit of expenditure is Rs. 10,000/- only. The material 
fact which constitutes the cause of action is the excess 
of expenditure over the prescribed limit and that fact 
is the allegation that expenditure of about Rs. 5 lacs 
was Incurred or authorised by respondent No. 1 and 
hi E election agent. The material fact ha s thus beel 1 
stated in the petition and I do not think this paragraph 
suffers from the absence of a concise statement of 
material facts as contended by respondent No. 1, I 
therefore hold that ihe allegations In paragraph 25 fulfil 
the requirements of section 83(l)(a) of the 1951 Act. 

I, however, find that full particulars of this corrupt 
practice have not been given and I direct the petitioner 
to furnish further particulars as mentioned in the 
Schedule to this order. 


Paragraph 26 of the petition alleges that respondent 
No. 1 has not lodged any account of his expenditure in 
relation to the election expenses as required under 
section 77 of the 1951 Act in the prescribed manner 
nor have any accounts been maintained as prescribed. 
It is further alleged that the account lodged by res- 
pondent No. 1 was not verified according to law and 
was not accompanied by original vouchers as required 
under the provisions of the 1951 Act and that such an 
account is no account. This corrupt practice is covered 
by section 100(1) (d) of the 1951 Act and I find that 
the material facts which constitute the cause of action 
are contained In this paragraph. Even the particulars 
have been furnished because it hag been Indicated that 



4486 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 1972/ASVINA 29, ltD J 


U'aki li- 


the complaint is that no accounts have been main- 
tained; the account filed is not according to law and 
origihal vouchers have not been filed, I do not think 
any further particulars are necessary so far as the 
allegations in this paragraph are concerned, 

I, therefore, hold that none of the paragraphs men- 
tioned in this Issue sutler from the defect of lack of a 
concise statement of material particulars but the peti- 
tioner must furnish further particulars as indicated in 
the Schedule to this order with respect to paragraphs 18 
lo 21; 24 and 25. 

Issue No, 2 is.- 

“Whether the allegations made in paragraph 12 of 
the petition are outside the scope of section 100 
of the Act.” 

Paragraph 12 of the petition alleges that the election 
was held in the basis imperfect and defective electoral 
roll s and, for this reason, the election of respondent 
No. 1 was void and was liable to be set aside. It is 
further alleged that these imperfect or Improper elec- 
toral rolls were used in the election despite protests by 
the petitioner, his workers and his party. Details to 
show that the electoral rolls were imperfect and im- 
proper have been given and they are: 

(a) that names were included in the electoral rolls 
on a large scale in violation of the provisions 
which are relevant for making inclusion of 
names in the electoral rolls; 

(b) that a large number of applications which 
were neither in the prescribed forms nor were 
properly filled nor exhibited as required by the 
provisions of the Registration of Withdrawal 
Rule s and in respect of which no objection? 
were invited, were received on the eve of 
election by various Registration Officers and 
the names of such persons, whose applications 
should have been rejected, were Illegally in- 
cluded lp the electoral rolls; 

(c) that just on the eve of election., a large number 
of names were deleted from the electoral rolls 
in contravention of the Representation of the 
People Act, 1950 (hereinafter referred to as 
the ‘1950 Act’) and rules and orders framed 
thereunder and the Registration of Electoral 

Rolls; 

(d) that the electoral rolls did not contain the 
names of several thousand persons who had 
attained the age of 21 years on the qualifying 
date. 

At the stage of arguments It was stated by 1 the 
counsel for the petitioner that there was a contraven- 
tion of sub-secticn (3) of section 23 of the 1950 Act 
with' regard to grounds (a)(b)(c) above and a contra- 
vention of sections 19 and 21 of the’ 1950 Act and 
Article 326 of the Constitution with regard to ground 
(d) above. 

Apart from th e reply to the said allegations, on 
merits respondent No. 1 pleaded that the allegations 
related to electoral rolls whose legality or correctness 
cannot be gone into in an election petition and it is 
only this aspect of the matter which is to be decided 
under this Issue. 

The grounds on which cm election can be held void 
are set out in section 100 of the 1951 Act and this 
section does not contain any specific ground to the 
effect that an election can be declared void if imper- 
fect and defective electoral rolls have been used. The 
argument of the petitioner is that . this ground is 
available to him under sub-clause "(lv)' of clause (d) 
of sub-section (1) of section 100 of the 1951 Act 
providing that the result of the election in so as 
it concerns a returned candidate has been materially 
affected by any non-compliance with the provisions of 
the Cohstltution or of the 1951 Act or of any rules or 
orders made under thi s Act- It is contended on behalf 


of respondent No. 1 that the 1950 Act is not mentioned 
in this sub-clause. 

Now, the electoral rolls for parliamentary consti- 
tuencies are prepared under section 13-D of the 1950 
Act and section 15 of this Act provides lor the prepara- 
tion of an electoral roll for every constituency. Sec- 
tion 16 of the 1950 Act specifies the disqualifications 
for registration i n an electoral roll. Section 21 provides 
for their preparation in the prescribed manner by 
reference to the qualifying date and their revision. 
Section 22 provides for their correction. Section 23 
provides for the inclusion of names in the electoral 
rolls. The orders made by the Electoral Registration 
Officer under section 22 or 23 are made appealable by 
section 24 section 30 bars the jurisd^tion of Civil 
Courts to entertain or adjudicate upon any question, 
whether any person is or is not entitled to be registered 
in afi~blectoral roll for a constituency; or the question 
of legality of any action taken by or under the autho- 
rity of an Electoral Registration Officer, or of any 
decision given by any authority appointed under this 
Act for the revision of any such roll. It is, therefore, 
clear that the preparation of electoral rolls is governed 
by the 1950 Act and not by the 1951 Act, The 1951 
Act merely provides the right to vote by Section 62 
which, inter alia states that it is only a person who is 
and not a person who la not entered In the electoral 
roll of any constituency, who shall be entitled to vote 
in that constituency. Therefor®, even though a person 
may be eligible' to vote h e shall not be entitled to vote 
iR any constituency if his name Is not entered in the 
electoral' roll of that constituency. The right to vote 
i s a persbtfal right which is attached to the person who 
is eligible to vote. He can vote only if hi s name is 
entered In the electoral roll for his constituency. If 
his name is not entered, the right to vote of only that 
person is taken away and It is for him to agitate In 
the manner prescribed by the 1950 Act for the inclu- 
sion of his name. 

The matter is concluded against the petitioner by 
decision of the Supreme Court. The first decision is 
reported in A.I.R. 1971 Supreme Court 1348 in re: 
Pamapakani Ravappa Belaoali v. B. D. Jattl and others. 
Where it has been observed that the ambit of section 
100(1) (d) (iv) does not entitle the Court in an elec- 
tion petition to set aside an election on the ground of 
non-compliance with the provisions of the Act of 
1950 or any rules made thereunder with the exception 
of section 16 of this Act and that in an election peti- 
tion the correctness of the electoral roll cannot be 
gone into. The Supreme Court approved the view to 
that effect taken by a Full Bench of the Punjab and 
Haryana High Court in Roop Lai Mehtra v. Dhan 
Singh and others reported in A.I.R. 1968 Punjab 1. 
In an earlier decision reported in A.I.R. 1970 Supreme 
Court 340 in Regarding : Kabul Singh v. Kundan Singh 
and others the Supreme Court observed that the right 
to vote being purely a statutory right the validity of 
any vote has to be examined on the basis of the provi- 
sion of the Act. After noticing provisions of the 1950 
Act relating to the preparation of electoral rolls it 
was observed that these preparation formed a complete 
Code by themselves in the matter of preparation and 
maintenance of electoral rolls; that the entries found 
in the electoral rolls are final and they are not open 
to challenge either before a Civil Court or before a 
Tribunal which considers the validity of any election. 

I, therefore, hold that the objections raised in sub- 
paras (a), (h) and (c) of paragraph 12 of the petition 
cannot be the subject matter of this petition. 

With regard to the objections raised in sub-para 
(d) above, reliance on sections 19 and 21 of the 1950 
Act is misconceived because assuming there was any 
non-compliance of these sections, the non-complicance of 
any provisions of this Act cannot be raised as a ground 
under section 100(1) (d) and (iv) of the 1951 Act. 
The next argument is that in so far as sub-para (d) 
is concerned there has been a non-compliance of 
Article 328 of the Constitution which provides for the 



■M.C. 3(iiJ3 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASV1NA 2V, 1894 


44&7 


elections to the House of the People to be on the basis 
of adult suffrage; that is to say, every person who is 
a citizen of India and who is not less than twenty one 
years of age on such date as may be fixed in that be- 
half by or under any law made by the appropriate 
Legislature and is not otherwise disqualified under this 
Constitution or any law made by the appropriate 
Legislature on the ground of non-residence, unsound- 
ness of mind, crime or corrupt or illegal practice, shall 
be entitled to be registered as a voter at any such 
election. As stated by me already, the right to vote 
is a personal right and although the Constitution has 
declared that the election shall be on the basis of adult 
suffrage the right to vote is subject to the conditions 
mentioned in Article 320 years on the qualifying date 
does not confer the right to vote because such a person 
may be otherwise disqualified. Article 326 of the 
Constitution does not impose an obligation upon any- 
body to include in the electoral roll the name of every 
person whQ is above te age of 21 years. It merely gives 
a right to such a person, unless he is otherwise disqua- 
lified, to have his name included in the electoral roll. 
There cannot, therefore, be said to be any non-compli- 
ance with Article 326 of the Constitution as contended 
by the petitioner. 

For all these reasons I hold that the grounds raised 
in paragraph 12 of the petition cannot form the 
subject matter of this election petition and I order 
that paragraph 12 of the petition be struck oil. 

Then. Issue No. 3 is in these terms: — 

"Whether the allegations made In paragraphs 18 
and 19 of the petition are outside the scope 
of section 100 of the Act?” 

Paragraph 18 contains the allegations that the verdict 
declared by the Returning Officer is not the verdict 
of the electorate at the poll and that the defeat of the 
petitioner and the success of respondent No. 1 was 
the result introduction of fraudulent ballot, say about 
a lac or more ballot papers, in a systematic manner 
which was facilitated by virtue of the amendment in 
rule 56(1) of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 1961. 
To substantiate these allegations it has been alleged, — 

(a) that it was noticed by the petitioner and his 
counting agents that the stamp marks on the 
‘cow and calf symbol in thousands of ballot 
papers were uniform exactly on the same 
place and of uniform density and were bright 
and fresh as against the stamp marks on the 
'Deepak' symbol which were diffused, dispersed 
and of divergent density or brightness; 

(b) that on some ballot papers, the stamp ink 
was spread over the whole symbol column 
as if it had been spread by a roller and was 
due to incomplete or defective treatment of 
the paper chemically; 

(c) that the colour and thickness of the paper of 
such ballots was different from the other 
ballot papers; 

(d) that in some ballot papers some faint marks 
appeared on places where thev could not nor- 
mally have come as a result of folding of 
the ballots; and 

(e) that about a lac of ballot papers bore mark- 
ings which could not be the act of human 
hand but could be the result of a chemical 
process used on such ballot papers. 

On these allegations it is contended that these marks 
could not have been put by the voters at the time of 
polling but had appeared as a result of some mechani- 
cal and/or chemical process and that quite a large 
percentage of chemically treated and mechanically 
imprinted ballot papers had been smuggled in. 

In paragraph 19 it is alleged that as a result of the 
chemical treatment, the markings of the ‘cow and 
calf symbol which were not discernible at the time 


of the actual voting became visible by the time of 
counting of votes and the effect of the chemicals was 
that the markings made on the ballots by the voters 
disappeared by the time of counting. It is further 
alleged that a large number of ballot papers did not 
bear the signatures of the Presiding Officers at the 
back and as such they were invalid but they were 
counted as valid, The petitioner goes on to say that 
a prayer was made to the Election Commission by a 
petition for inspection of these ballot papers but it 
was turned down thereby depriving the petitioner of 
an opportunity to prove the truth of his allegations. 

It Is contended on behalf of respondent No. 1 that 
barring the allegation regarding the absence of signa- 
tures of the Presiding Officer at the back of the ballot 
papers, the other allegations regarding what may ba 
described in short as the employment of a mechanical 
or chemical process do not fall within the four corners 
of section 100 of the 1951 Act and cannot be investi- 
gated. It is contended that these allegations amount 
to the votes being rendered void and the only grounds 
on which votes can be rendered void or contained in 
section 62 of the 1951 Act. This section deals with the 
right to vote and provides, inter alia, that a person who 
is not entered in the electoral roll is not entitled to 
vote; that a person who is subject to any disqffalifi- 
cations referred to in section 10 of the 1950 Act shall 
not be entitled to vote; that no person shall vote in 
more than one constituency; that no person shall vote for 
more than once in the same constituency and that no 
person shall vote who is confined in a prison. In my 
view this contention has no force. Section 62 of the 
1951 Act is by no means exhaustive of the votes which 
may be void. 

The allegations in paragraph 18 and 19 have to be 
read with the allegations in paragraph 9 in which the 
petitioner has alleged, inter alia, that the result of the 
election in so far as it concerns respondent No. 1 has 
been materially affected, inter alia, by reception of 
votes which are void or by improper rejection of valid 
vote. 

In short, the allegations in paragraphs 18 and 19 
amount to saying that the mark on over a lac ballot 
papers is a mark made by some mechanical or chemi- 
cal process and is not a mark made by the voter with 
the instrument supplied for the purpose. These allega- 
tions appear to me to fall clearly within clause (b) 
of sub-rule (2) of rule 56 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, which relates to counting of votes and 
which provides that the Returning Officer shall reject 
a ballot paper if to indicate the vote, it hears no mark 
at all or bears a mark made otherwise than with the 
instrument supplied for the purpose. The theory 
advanced by the petitioner has been described as 
fantastic by respondent No. 1. But that is a matter 
of proof with which I am not concerned at this stage. 
If the allegations are true then undoubtedly such ballot 
papers which have been treated by a mechanical or 
chemical process should have been rejected under rule 
56(2)(b) of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 1961. In 
my view the allegations squarely within the pruview 
of section 100 (1) (d) (iii) and (iv) taken with the 
allegation that the result of the election, in so far as 
it concerns respondent No. 1, ha's been materially 
affected by a non-compliance of the aforesaid rule. 
I, therefore, hold that the allegations In paragraphs 
18 and 19 of the petition can be investigated in this 
petition. 

The last issue is Issue No, 4 and It Is In these 

terms. — 

‘‘Whether the question about the alleged invalidity 
of the amendment to rule 56 of the Conduct 
of Election Rules, 1981 is beyond the scope 
of an election petition and not within the 
jurisdiction of my Court trying the election 
petition.” 

The allegations with respect to this Issue are con- 
tained in paragraphs 13 to 17 of the petition and 
relate to the amendment of rule 56 (1) of the Conduct 



[Pari U- 


4488 


THU GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21. 1972/ASVINA 29, IS'M 


of Elections Rules 1961, and its substitution by a new 
rule. This substitution was brought about the Central 
Government by notification No. S.O, 479 dated January 
27, 1969 in exercise of the powers conferred by see- 
tion J09 of the 1951 Act. 

In paragraph 13 it is alleged that this amendment 
had been brought about mala fide by the Central 
Government and Election Commission of India acting 
in consonance with the wishes of the Prime Minister, 
Smt. Indira Gandhi. Paragraph 14 reproduces the 
existing and the substituted rule 56 (1). Paragraph 
15 again reiterates mala fides and alleges that the 
amendment was brought about without following the 
procedural and other legal requirements in contraven- 
tion of the provisions of section 169 of the 1951 Act 
despite the protest of the petitioners party and other 
political parties in the country. Paragraph 16 states 
that this amendment was brought in even though the 
Election Commission and the Central Government 
knew and were aware that it could not be placed 
on the table of either the Lok Sabha or the Rajya 
Sabha they were not in session and that it was made 
obviously with the desire to avoid scrutiny by Parlia- 
ment to say that the amendment ought not to be made. 
Paragraph 17 alleges that the action of the Central 
Government was with the ulterior motive to introduce 
invalid ballot papers which has been treated by a 
chemical and mechanical process and grounds are set 
out to show that there was an ulterior motive. 

The jurisdiction to try an election petition has been 
conferred on High Courts by Section 8(1A of the 1951 
Act. Before the amendment of this act by Act No. 
47 of 1966. this jurisdiction has been conferred upon 
Election Tribunals constituted under this Act. 

The right to file an election petition is not a common 
law right, It has been conferred by the 1951 Act. It 
is true that High Court have their ordinary and extra- 
ordinary jurisdictions. But election petitions cannot 
be tried in exercise of these jurisdiction. Therefore 
the jurisdiction to try an election petition conferred by 
the 1951 Act is a special jurisdiction and it follows that 
it has to be exercised in accordance with the provi- 
sions of the statute conferring the jurisdiction. 

Provisions are made in various sections of the 1951 
Act for the presentation of petitions (Section 81) parties 
to the petition (section 82) contents of the petition 
(Section 83) relief that may be claimed by the peti- 
tioner (Section 84) trial of election petitions (Section 
86) procedure before the High Court (Section 87) 
documentry evidence (section 93) secrecy of voting 
(section 94) answering of criminating questions and 
certificate of indemnity (section 95) expenses of wit- 
nesses (section 90) recrimination when seat claimed 
(section 97) decision of the High Court (section 98) 
other orders to be made by the High Court (section 
100) grounds on which a candidate other than the re- 
turned candidate may be declared to have been elected 
(Section 101) procedure in case of an equality of votes 
(Section 102) communication of orders of the High 
Court (Section 103) transmission of order to the 
appropriated authority etc. and its publication (Sec- 
tion 106) and effects of orders of the High Court 
(Section 107) provisions are also made for withdrawal 
of election petitions (Section 109) procedure for with- 
drawal of election petitions (Section 110) report of with- 
drawal by the High Court to the Election Commission 
(Section 111) Abatement of election petitions (Sec- 
tion 112) and Abatement or substitution on death of 
respondent (Section 116). 

All these provisions show that while trying an elec- 
tion petition the High Court is exercising a limited 
jurisdiction as prescribed and circumscribed by the 
1951 Act and it would not be permissible to the High 
Court to try the petition in a manner other than the 
manner provided or to make orders other than the 
orders provided. There is no provisions in the 1961 
Act conferring upon the High Court the iurisdiction to 
declare any provisions to be ultra vires. Such an order 


is not contemplated by the 1951 Act. As has been 
neld by the Supreme Court in 1964 Supreme Court 
1 eports 892 in Re: Jagan Nath v. Jaswant Singh and 
others the general rule is well settled that the statu- 
tory requirements of election law must be strictly 
observed and that an election contest Is not an action 
■a law or a suit in equity but is a purely statutory 
01 (receding unknow to the common law and that the 
court possession no common law, power. It has been 
stated in A.I.R. 1952 Supreme Court 64 in re: N. P. 
Po-nnuswami v. The Returning Officer. Namakkal 
Constituency , that where a right or liability is created 
Oy a statute which gives a special remedy for enforc- 
ing it, the remedy provided by that statute only must 
be availed of any that in relation to elections it is 
the sole right of the Legislature to examine and deter- 
mine all matters relating to the election of its own 
members and if the Legislature takes it out of its own 
hands and vestes in a Special Tribunal an entrely new 
and unknown jurisdiction that special jurisdiction 
should be exercised in accordance with the law which 
creates it, It is clear that it is not within the scope 
of the 195] Act that an election Court even though it 
be the High Court having preexisting ordinary and 
extraordinary jurisdiction can try an election petition 
or pass orders therein otherwise than in accordance 
with the provisions of this act. The fact that the 
High Court trynig an election petition has pre-existing 
ordinary and extraordinary jurisdiction does not effect 
the matter. The position is some what the same as 
of a Hingh Court hearing a reference under the Income 
Tax Act. 

In the case of K. S. Venkata raman and Co. Pvt. Ltd. 
v. State of Madras. (60 I.T.R. 112) the Supreme Court 
held that the authorities constituted under the Income 
Tax Act are not concerned with whether the provi- 
sions of the Act are good or bad and the question of 
Ultra Vires is foreign to the scope of its juridiction. 
Huving said that the Supreme Court went on to say 
that as the question of Ultra vires cannot arise in the 
order of the Income Tax Tribunal, the High Court can- 
not possibly give any decision on the question of vires 
of anv provisions of this act while hearing a ref. If 
the argument of the petitioner that question of Ultra 
vires is beyond the scope of only such authorities 
which are constituted by the statue and not where 
jurisdiction has been conferred upon an existing court 
having its own ordinary and extraordinary Jurisdic- 
tion where to be accepted the High Court would be 
entitled to consider the question of Ultra Vires of a 
provisions of the Indian Income Tax Act even while 
exercising its jurisdiction under section 66(1) of the 
Indian Income Tax Act 1922. It is, therefore, clear 
that, the fact this High Court has its own ordinary 
and extraordinary iurisdiction would not lead to the 
conclusion that while trying an election petition in 
exercise of jurisdiction conferred by the 1951 Act, it 
can adjudicate upon the vires of this Act or of any 
rules or orders made thereunder. The election peti- 
tion has to be tried in accordance with the provisions 
of the 1951 Act. 

T. therefore, hold that this Court has no jurisdiction 
to determine the question of vires of the amended 
rule 50(1) of the Conduct Elections Rules, 1961. 

In conclusion, as stated earlier, I have for the sake 
of convenience mentioned the particulars required with 
reference to each paragraph and sub-paragTaph in the 
schedule, to this order. These particulars should be 
furnished to the Registry of this court in writing by 
August 19. 1971, with advance copy to the counsel 
for respondent No. 1 the petition will be listed on 
August 20, 1971, for framing of Issues on merits on the 
please that survive and for further proceedings. 

(Sd.) S. N, Andley, 

Judge. 



Sec. 3 ( ii ) J 


THR GA/ETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21. 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 4489 


E. P. No. 2/ i97r. 

Schedule of Parriculars required. 

Paragraph and Particulars required. 

Sub-paragraph 
of the petition. 

lK(a) The names of the counting agents of the petitioner 

referred to in this sub-pargarph. 

19. The dates on which actual counting took place. 

20(a) (t) The names and olher particulars like rcsi" 

dences of the ‘‘‘other persons” referred to in thi 8 
tub pagraraph. 

(2) The dates; lime/s and places where the 
impugned statement of facts were published 

The names and other particulars like residences 
of tire “other person" who printed and pub- 
lished the hand bill annexure ‘a’ and the 
date/s and place's when and where the hand 
bill was published. 


3. Shri Cliuni Lai, resident of XV/G095, Gali Basti 

Martdir, Sat Narain, Nabi Karim, New Delhi. 

4. Shri All Qabaristan Mandodia, Mir Dard Road, 

New Delhi. 

5. Shri Jai Parkash, resident of 2281/83, Madganj, 

Sadar Bazar, Delhi — Respondents. 

Election petition under Sectio:. 80A to 34 of the Re- 
presentation of People Act, 195 j praying that this 
Hon’ble Court be pleased: 

(a) to net aside the election of respondent No. I and 
hold that the same Is void. 

(bt to declare that the petitioner has been ciuly elect- 
ed to Lok Sabha from Delhi Sadar Parliamentary Cons- 
tituency. 

tr) to pass such other orders as required under Sec- 
tion 99 of the Act. 


90(a) 


20(3) 


21 . 


24. 


25 - 


(1) The names and other particulars Like addresses 
of rhe “other agents and workers” referred to 
in this sub-paragraph. 

(2I The date's ; time's and place /s where the 
facts in the poster annexure ‘A’ were (rally 
repeated and the datc/s ; time's and place's 
of the public meetings alleged to have been 
held. 

(3) The names and other particulars like addresses 
of the persons who are alleged to have orally 
repeated the contents of annexure ‘A’. 

(1) The name and address of the “agent” re- 
ferred to in thiB sub-paragraph. 

( 2 ) The date/s ; time/s and place Is where the 
poster referred to in this sub-paragraph was 
published. 

(3) The name of the press where the aforesaid 
poster was printed. 

(1) Particulars of the “various places” where the 
posters were pasted and displayed. 

(2) The names and other particulars like addresses 
of the “other persons’* referred to in this 
paragraph. 

The date/s, time/s and place/s when and where 
meetings referred to in this paragraph are 
alleged to have been held, 

(1) Details of the items or heads of expenses 
incurred by respondent No, r in addition to 
the items of heads of expenses mentioned in 
the election account filed by respondent No, 1. 

( 2 ) Particulars of the purpose for which the 
unauthorised expense was incurred e.g. the 
amount has been spent in hiring cars or other 
vehicles, in holding meetings or publishing 
statements or posters or the like. In other 
wordB full particulars of the amounts expended 
together with rhe particulars of the purpose 
for which these amounts were expended. 


(d) any other relief which this Ilon’ble Court rosy 
deam fit and proper In the circumstances of the case. 

(e) award cost of the proceedings. 

This the 19th day cf May, 1972. 

Present: 

The Hon’ble the Chief Justice 

For the Petitioner: Mr. S. N. Marwaha with Mr. 
K. C. Dua, Advocates. 

For the Respondent: Mr. D. D. Chawla with Mr. V. P. 
Nanda for respondent No. 1 and Mr. C. M. Oberio for 
respondent No: S: 

Judgment; S. N. Andley (C.J.) 

The petitioner, Kanwar Lai Gupta, has challenged 
the election of respondent No. 1, Amar Nath Chawla, 
to Parliament in the mid-term general elections held 
in 1971. The elections to Parliament prior thereto had 
been held in February, 1007, before the expiry of its 
five year term. The President Issued a notification on 
January 19, 1971, under section 14 of the Representation 
of the People Act, 1951 hereinafter called "the Act” 
calling upon Parliamentary Constituencies In the States 
and in th Union Territories of the Republic of India to 
elect members to teh Parliament. The Election Com- 
missions of India published the programme for the said 
elections as follows : — 

February 1 to 8. 1971 : 


February 9, 1971 : 
February xi, 1971 : 


March 5, 1971 : 


Period during which nomination 
papers could be filed. 

Date for scrutiny. 

Last date for withdrawal of 
nomination papers. 

Date of poll, if necessary. 


August 6, 1971. 


(Sd) S. N. Andley, 
Judge. 


IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI 

Election Petition No. 2 or 1971 

Shri Kanwar Lai Gupta, Ex-Member of Parliament 
(Lok Sabha), resident of 2258/62, Madganj, 
Sadar Bazar, Delhi — Petitioner. 

Versus 

1- Shri Amar Nath Chawla, resident of XV-7643, 
Ram Nagar, New Delhi. 

2. Shri F. R. Khan, resident of 387, Hauz Qazl, 

Delhi. 


March 10 and 11. 1971 : Dates for counting of votes. 


Seven parliamentary Constituencies were delimited In 
the Union Territory of Delhi and one of them with 
which this petition is concerned is the Delhi Sadar 
Parliamentary Constituency which consists of over two 
lacs voters. 


The petitioner filed his nomination 'paper to contest 
the election from the Delhi Sadar Parliamentary Cons- 
tituency havlrg been set up as a candidate for the Bhar- 
tiya Jaha Sangh which had been allotted the symbol 
‘Deepak’. Respondent No. 1 contested the election from 
this constituency as a candidate of the Congress which 
had been allotted the symbol of ‘cow and calf. Nine 
other persons filed their nomination papers but six of 



4490 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21. 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II — 


them withdrew from the cohtesit and, as a result, the 
election from, this constituency was contested by,- — 

1. Kanwar Lai Gupta, the petitioner; 

2. Amar Nath Chawal, respondent No, 1, 

3. F. R. Khan, respondent No. 2; 

4. Chuni Lai, respondent No. 3 and 

5. Ali Mohd. respondent No. 4. 

The result of the counting of votes was as follows: — 

1. Amar Nath Chawla — 98,108 votes. 

2. Kanwar Lai Gupta — 55,305 votes. 

3. F. R. Khan — 2,031 votes. 

4. Chuni Lai — 1,095 votes. 

5. Ali Mohd.— 369 votes. 

The total number of valid votes polled was 1,56,907 
and the total number of rejected votes was 1,621. 
Having secured the majority of votes, respondent No. 
1 was declared elected to Parliament from the Delhi 
Sadar Parliamentary Constituency. 

The election of respondent No. 1 is sought to be 
challenged on the ground that he committed various 
corrupt practices. It was alleged that Jal Parkash Goel, 
who was not a contesting candidate, was also guilty 
of corrupt practices and he wasi impleaded in this 
petition as respondent No. 5. 

In paragraph 9 of the petition, a summary of the 
grounds on which the election of respondent No. 1 was 
sought to be set aside is given and it is stated that 
corrupt practices have been committed by respondent 
No. 1, his election agent and by other persons with 
the consent of respondent No. 1 or his election agent 
and that the result of the election i fl so far a s it con- 
cerned respondent No. 1 has been materially affected 
by corrupt practices committed in the interest of res- 
pondent No. 1 by agents and other persons -other than 
his election agent; by reception of votes which were 
void; by improper rejection of valid votes and by non- 
compliance of the provisions of the Constitution; of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1950; of the Repre- 
sentation of the People Act, I95i and the rules and 
orders framed and made under the said Acts, The 
details of these grounds are given in paragraph 12; 
14, 18 to 21 and 24 to 26 of the petition. Shortly stated, 
it was alleged in paragraph 12 of the petition that the 
election had been held on the basis of imperfect and 
defective electoral rolls; it was alleged in paragraph 14 
pf the petition that the amendment made in rule 56 
of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 1961, was mala -fide 
and, therefore, invalid; it was alleged in paragraphs 
18 and 19 Of the petition that about a lac or more ballot 
papers which had been chemically and mechanically 
treated had been fraudalentlv introduced; It was alleg- 
ed in paragraphs 20 and 21 of the petition that respon- 
dent No, l, his election agent and other persons with 
his consent Including Jal Parkash Goel (respondent 
No. 5) had printed and published a handbill and a 
poster containing statements in relation to the personal 
character or conduct of the petitioner which were false 
ana which these person® did not believe to be true and 
which statements were reasonably calculated to pre- 
judice the prospects of the petitioner's election; it was 
alleged in paragraph 24 of the petition that these state- 
ments were repeated by respondent No. 1 and res- 
pondent No. 5 in public meeting^ and also orally during 
the course of canvassing and in paragraphs 25 and 26 
of the petition it was alleged that respondent No. 1 
and incurred or authorised expenditure in contraven- 
tion of section 77 of the Act over the prescribed limit 
of Rs. 10,000. On these allegations it was prayed that 
the election of respondent No. l may be held to be 
void and set aside; that the petitioner may be de- 
clared to have been duly elected to Parliament and 
other orders as) required uhder section f9 of the Act 
be passed. 

Written statements were filed on behalf of respon- 
dents No, 1, 2 and 5 but thi s petition has been contest- 
ed only by respondents No. 1 and 5- In the written 
statement, certain preliminary objections were raised 
by respondent No. 1 regarding lack of material facts 


and full particulars of the allegations in the petition. 
It was urged that the allegations in paragraphs 12, 
18 of the petition were outside the under section 100 
of the Act. It was further that the question about 
the invalidity of the amendment of rule 58 of the Con- 
duct of Elections Rules, 1961 was beyond the scope of 
an election petition and was not within the Jurisdiction 
of any court trying an election petition. The following 
preliminary Issues wer e framed by me on July 16, 
1971, on these preliminary objections: — 

1. Whether paragraphs 9, 12, 18 to 21 and 24 to 

26 of the petition or any of them lack in the 
statement of material fact® and full particu- 
lars? If so, to what effect. 

2. Whether the allegations made in paragraph 12 

of the petition are outside the scope of section 
100 of the Act? 

3- Whether the allegations made In paragraph 18 
and 19 of the petition are outside the scope 
of section 100 of the Act? 

4. Whether the question about the alleged invalidi- 
ty of the amendment to rule 56 of the Conduct 
of Elections Rulea 1961, is beyond the scope of 
an election petition and not within the jurisdic- 
tion of any Court trying the election petition. 

These preliminary issues were decided by my order 
dated August (J, 1971. On Issue No. 1, I held that “None 
of the paragraphs mentioned in this Issue suffer from 
the defect of lack of a concise statement of material 
particulars but the petitioner must furnish further 
particulars as indicated I n the Schedule to this order 
with respect to paragraphs 18 to 2l; 24 and 25”. Such 
particulars have been furnished by the petitioner, On 
Issue No. 2, I held that "the grounds raised In para- 
graph 12 of the petition cannot form the subject matter 
of this election petition.” and paragraph 12 Of the peti- 
tion was ordered to be struck off. On Issue No. 3, I 
held that “the allegations in paragraphs 18 and 19 of 
the petition can be investigated in teis petition.” On 
Issue No. 4, I hekTthat “this Court has no jurisdiction 
to determine the question of vire s of the amended rule 
56(1) of the Conduct of Elections Rules. 1961.” It may 
be stated that the petitioner filed an application for 
review of this order in so far aB it related to the 
averments made in paragraph 12 of the petition and 
this application was dismissed by me by my order 
dated August 27, 1971. 

On August 4, 1971, the petitioner filed I.A. No. 1150 
of 1971 for proper cunstody and inspection of the 
ballot papers. While this application was pending. 
Issues on merits were framed by me on September 3. 
1971 and these are : — 

1. Whether about a lac or more, fraudulent ballot 

papers were found at the time of counting to 
have been introduced as alleged in paragraph 

18 of the petition? 

2. Whether these ballot papers were Implanted 

or smuggled as alleged in paragraph 18 of the 
petition? 

3- Whether these ballot papers had been chemi- 
cally treated? 

4. Whether as a result of the alleged chemical 

treatment, the markings on the cow and calf 
symbol which were indiscernible at the time 
of actual voting became visible by the time 
of counting of votes as alleged in paragraph 

19 of the petition? 

5. Whether the effect of the alleged use of chemi- 

cals was that the marking® made by the voter 
on the ballot paper disappeared by the time 
of counting of votes as alleged in paragraph 
19 of the petition. 

6. On proof of any of the above Issues whether 

these votes were rendered Void? 



SEC. -Rlljl 


4491 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 2<\ 18-M 


7. On proof 0 f any of the above Issues, whether 

the result of the election in so far as respon- 
dent No. 1 ip concerned hag been materially 
affected? 

8 . Whether respondent No. 1 his election agent 

and Other persons with the consent of res- 
pondent No. 1 or his election agent committed 
the corrupt practice as alleged in paragraphs 
20 and 21 of the election petition? 

Note: Evidence as to these corrupt practices and 
as to the other persons will be confined to 
the particulars furnished by the petitioner In 
compliance of my order dated August 6 , 1971. 

9. Whether respondent No. 1 and Jai Parkash 

(respondent No. 5) with his consent held 
meetlngg wherein the statement mentioned 
in annexure ‘B’ to the petition was repeated 
at public meetings and orally during canvass- 
ing in the constituency as alleged in para- 
graph 24 of the petition? 

Note: The proof of these allegations will wc con- 
fined 0 the particulars furnished by the peti- 
tioner in compliance of my order dated 
August 6 , 1971. 

10. Whether respondent No. 1 incurred or authoris- 
ed the expenditure beyond the prescribed 
limit of Rs. 10,000/- in contravention of 
section 77 of the Representation of the Peo- 
ple Act, 1951 and thereby committed the 
corrupt practice under section 123(0) of the 
Act as alleged in paragraph 25 of the peti- 
tion? 

Note: The proof of these allegations Will be con- 
fined to the particulars furnished by the peti- 
tioner in compliance of my order dated Aug. 
6 , 1971. 

1 1 '. Whether respondent No. 1 has not lodged any 
account of hi s expenditure in relation to the 
election expenses in the prescribed manner 
as required by section 77 of the Representa- 
tion of the People Act, 1951? If so, to what 
effect? 

12. Whether respondent No. 1 has not maintained 
or lodged the account required by section 77 
of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, 
in the prescribed manner and has incurred 
disqualification disentitling him to continue 
as a member of the House of the People 

13. Whether the account lodged by respondent 
No. 1 is not verified according to law and is 
not accompanied by original vouchers? If so, 
to what effect? 

14. Whether any order* are required to be pfi**ed 

against respondent No. 5 under section 99(1) 
of the Representation of th People Act, 1951, 
if the allegations of corrupt practices against 
him are proved? 


suit of this order was that the petitioner wag held 
disentitled to lead any evidence on Issues Nos, 1 to 7. 
I, therefore, directed that the parties shall lead 
evidence on the remaining Issues. Considerable evi- 
dence has been led by the petitioner and respondent 
No, 1 and respondent No, 5 has appeared as his own 
witness. The counsel for these three parties have 
addressed oral arguments. 

The petitioner has first taken up arguments on Issue 
No. 10 which relates to the incurring or authorising 
by respondent No. 1 of expenditure beyond the pres- 
cribed limit of Rs. 10,000/- in contravention of sec- 
tion 77 o,f the Act and thereby committing the corrupt 
practice contemplated by section 123(0) of the Act. 
This Issue is bassed upon paragraph 25 of the peti- 
tion which states: — 

“That the respondent No. 1 incurred or authoris- 
ed the expenditure in contravention of sec- 
tion 77 of the Act and thereby committed 
corrupt practice falling under section 123(0) 
of the Act. Prescribed limit of expenditure 
is Rs. 10,000/- for a Parliamentary Consti- 
tuency in the Union Territory of Delhi while 
the respondent No. 1 has incurred an expen- 
diture of over Rs. 5 lakhs.” 

In paragraph 25 of his written statement, respon- 
dent No. 1 has averred that he has lodged true, full 
and correct account of election expenses supported 
by vouchers with the Returning Officer in the pres- 
cribed form as required by rule 86 of the Conduct of 
Election Rules, 1961 and as provided in elections 77 
and 78 of the Act. It was further pleased that no 
details or particulars of the alleged expenditure by 
respondent No. 1 of over Rs. 5 lakhs had been given, 
In the particulars furnished in pursuance to my order 
with reference to thig allegation, the petitioner has 
alleged that respondent No, 1 had. in fact, spent 
amounts far in execess of the amounts as mentioned In 
the statement of expenses. The details of the.se parti- 


culars are : — 


1 Stationery 

Rs. 5 , 000 /- over and above the 
declared amount of Rs. 22 - 50 . 

2 . Petrol 

Rs. 25 , 000 /“ over and above the 
declared amount of Rs. 509 - 39 , 

3 . Electricity and loud- 
speaker 

Rs 10 , 000 /- over and above the 
declared amount ofPs. 182 50 . 

4 . Tent and furniture 

Ps. 50 , 000 /- over and above 
the declared amount of 

Rs. 620 /-. 

5 . Flags, banners and 

badges 

Rs. 50 , 000 /- over and above th e 
declared amount of Ps. 718 /-. 

6 . Telephone . 

Rs. 5 , 000 /- over and above the 
declared amount of R.. , 4 6 :/-, 


As will be seen, the first seven Issues related to 
about a lac or more ballot papers being void on the 
ground that they have been implanted after having 
been subjected to a chemical treatment as result of 
which the markings made by the voters on the ballot 
papers disappeared by the time of counting of votes. 
By my order dated September 3. 1971. the applica- 
tion for production, custody and inspection of ballot 
papers was disposed of and apart from giving direc- 
tions as to the custody of the ballot papers. I made an 
order for a general inspection of the ballot papers on 
the terms contained in this order. Respondent No, 1 
filed an appeal against the order for inspection in 
the Supreme Court which was disposed of on October 
22, 1971. Shortly stated, the Supreme Court allowed 
a limited inspection of about 000 selected ballot 
papers on examination of which I was to decide whe- 
ther a further probe was necessary. The Implemen- 
tation of the order took some time and ultimately I 
found by my order dated November 15, 1971, that a 
further probe was not necessary. The inevitable re- 


7 . Printing handbills and 
blocks 

8 . Hiring of taxis and 
scooters 


U j. T , 50 , 000 ov;r at d above 
the declared amount of 
Rs. 26 ?' tH. 

Fs. t , 00 , 000 /- over and above 
the declared amount of 
Rs. 265 ' t 8 . 


O p OCH ] . . . Rs. 25 , 000 /- over and above 

the declared amount of 
Rs. 60 /-. 


10. 260 polling booths Rs. 50/- per polling booth, 

apart from payment ol chart- 
age and to workers for chairs, 
tables, shamianas, durries, 
iced water, estables and 

entertainment. 


it. Prime Minister’s meet- Rs . 500 - on garlands alone', 
ing. 



4492 


[Pari II 


(1,1 GAZETTE 01' INDIA: OCIOBER 21 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


12. Public Bui nrncr Rs. 30 0 / - per meeting for 

meetings numbering durries, garlands, chairs, 
about 200. banners, an t posters. 

13, Distribution of hund- Bs. 1 , 00,000/-. 
bills; pasting of posters, 

printing of posters in- 
cluding paper for 35 
posters and 60 hand 
bills. 


The details of these were given as under : — 

Rj. 

1. Printing of identity slip", posters and hand- 

bills including cost of paper; cost of distri- 
bution and pasting. 75,000/-. 

2. Expenses on public meetings and coiner 

m-etlngs including expenses on loud- 
speakers, stage, light, durries, announce- 
ments, si tgl us, 50 OooF. 

3. dxp-miej on conveyance ind ding polling 
day to bring voters lo the polling booths 
by using 300 taxis and 500 scooters on the 

polling day. 44>50o/-. 

4. Flags banners, placards, stencils on walls, 
badges including doth, sulli and bamboos 

etc. .... 40,000/-. 

5. Shamianas, durries, chairs, mblcs, fans 
iced water, food etc. provided on the day 

of polling on all polling booths . 40,000/-. 

6. Expenses incurred for the purchase of votes 
and providing country-made liquor to the 

voters on the day of polling . . 75,000/-, 

7. Expenses incurred on engagement ol 

workers ...... 75,000/-. 

3. Expenses on food, postage and other miscel- 
laneous expenses, garlands ere. . , . 48,500/-. 

9. Application fee for candidature deposited 
with Delhi Pradesh Congress 
Committee ...... 1,000/-. 

10. Prime Minister’s meeting . . 50,000/-. 

11. permanent personal telephones . . 1,000/-. 


The reply of respondent No. 1 with regard to these 
alleged expenses is short He states that the so-called 
particulars are bogus and coked up and the petitioner 
has acted reckessly in giving the alleged figures of 
expenditure which are altogether fictitious. 

During the courses of arguments, the petitioner has 
not supported the tall claims made by him in his 
particulars. I will now proceed -to deal with the peti- 
tioner’s case In this Issue with reference to the various 
items of expenditure. 

The first subject on which the petitioner has address- 
ed his arguments In the number of meetings of respon- 
dent No. 1 and the expenses thereon incurred by him, 
The case of respondent No. 1 is that in February and 
upto March 2, 1971, 22 meetings had been held on hls 
behalf on which he incurred the expenses. He admits 
having Incurred the expense for the furniture etc. for 
these meetings which he arranged through 11) Tandan 
Tent and Furniture House; (Z) Salni Electric Works 
and (3) Agarwal Tent House. He has produced the 
bill of Tandan Tent and Furniture House (Exhibit 
R, 23) for Rs. 180/- for 12 meetings held between 
February 20, 1971 and March 2, 1971. According to 
this bill (Exhibit R. 23) dated March 4, 1971, Tandan 
Tent and Furniture House supplied 20 durries, 6 Takhats 


and 2 Chadarg for each of the 12 meetings at an aggre- 
gate charge of Rs. 15/- per meeting but the places 
where the meetings are held are not specified in the 
bill- The charge for each durft is 0-50 paise; for each 
Tokhat 0.50 paise and'for each Chadar Re. 1/- and the 
consolidated charge of Rs. 15/- per meeting includes 
cartage according to respondent No. 1 and Bhag Mai 
Tandan (RIW. 14), the proprietor of Tandan Tent and 
Furniture House. It Is the further case of respondent 
No. 1 that Saini Electric Works supplied loudspeakers 
and also furnished the light arrangements for these 
12 meetings on a consolidated charge of Rs. 180/- as 
per the receipt (Exhibit R. 27) dated March 4, 1971, 
filed by respondent No. 1 with his return of election 
expenses. For the remaining 11 meetings, the furniture 
and electric equipment were supplied by Agarwal, Tent 
House as per their bUl-cum-receipt dated April 7, 197J 
(Exhibit R. 28). This bill states that Agarwal Tent 
House supplied for each meeting one Takhat 0' x 3' 
four durries; two Chandnis; one microphone and four 
flood lights for a total amount of Rs. 400/- Including 
Rs. 100/- for cartage and Rs. 40/- as labour charges for 
removing the goods at night. Some of the places 
where the goods were supplied are mentioned In this 
bill as Sabamandl; Andha Mugal: Gulabi Bagh; Sadar 
Bazar and then the bill stated “etc”. It further states 
that these goods were supplied during the month of 
February, 1971. 

The case of the petitioner is that altogether respon- 
dent No. 1 held 40 and 50 meetings and about 150 corner 
meetings which were lavishly furnished and which 
according to th* petitioner and hls witnesses would 
have coat hundreds of rupees per meeting. 

The first point to be determined is the number of 
meetings which were held by respondent No. 1. The 
details of the 23 meetings are given by respondent No. 1 
in hls statement on March 31, 1972 These details 
are: — 

1. Malkaganj; 

2- Roshfinara Road; 

3. Two meetings at Clock Tower Sabzimandi. 

4. Two meetings at Chowk Chhe Tooti 

5. Chuna Mandi 

6. Tel Mandi. 

7. Lachhmanpurl 

8. Katra Karim. 

9. Neemwala Chowk. 

10- Narayan Market. 

11. Bagichi Tatu Shah 

12. Qasabpura. 

13. Bara Tooti 

14. Deputyganj. 

15. Two. meetings at Teliwara, 

16. Kishanganj. 

17. Two meetings at Andha Mugal 

18- Nangia Park. 

19. Birla Mills. 


It is the further case of respondent No. 1 that one of 
the meetings at Teliwara which was announced for 
February 24, 1971, was cancelled because of a fire In 
the neighbourhood but admittedly the furniture etc, 
had been supplied for this meeting. 

The petitioner’s claim of 40 to HO meetings was not 
adhered to In arguments and it Is claimed that in 
addition to these admitted meetings, there were 9 other 
meetings held by respondent No. 1 and these are:— 

1. One meetings at Bagichi Tau Shah on 15tb 

February, 1971. 

2. One meeting at Clock Tower, Sabzimandi, on 

10th February, 1971. 

3. One meeting at Qasabpura on 18th February. 

1971. 

4. One meeting at Tel Mandi on 19th February. 

1971. 



4493 


Sec. 3(ii)J 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVJNA 2<>, II. ‘>4 


5. One meeting at Chuna Mandi on 17th February, 

1071. 

6. One meeting at Multani Dhanda on 18th Febru- 

ary, 1971. 

7. One meeting at Chowk Sjnghara on 18th Febru- 

ary, 1971. 

8. One meeting at ‘P’ Block Andha Mugal on l&t 

March, 1971. 

9. One meeting at Lachhmanpuri Chowl on 2nd 

March, 1971. 

It is an admitted case of the parties that for holding 
meetings in Delhi, permission oi the sub divisions] 
magisliate ot the Ilaqa concerned had to be obtained. 
The entire Delhi Sadar Parliamentary Constituency is 
covered by four police stations, namely (1) Police 
Station Roshanara Road; (2) Police Station Paharganj; 
(3) Police Station Sabzimandi and (4) Police Station 
Sadar Bazar. Police Officers posted at these four police 
stations were examined by the petitioner himself. From 
the reglsteres maintained by their respective police 
stations, they prepared lists of the meetings which were 
arranged \yithin the jurisdiction of their respective 
police stations by various political parties. Although 
several other witnesses hav e spoken orally about the 
place s and dates where meetings were held by respon- 
dent No. 1, there is reliably conclusive documentery 
evidence from the records of these police stations 
about the places where the meetings were held. 

Khem Raj Dutl (PW. i) is the Station House Officer 
of police station Roshanara Road. He ha s filed a list 
of the meetings held by respondent No. 1 which is 
Exhibit PW. 1/1. According to this list, the following 
two meetings were held by respondent No. 1 within the 
jurisdiction of this police station: — 

1. On 23rd February, 1971 at Nangta Park. 

2. On 24th February, 1971 at Birla Mills compound. 

These two meetings ar« admitted by respondent No. 1 
in his statement dated March 31, 1972. 1o be bis meet- 
ings. 

Ramesh Chand (PW. 6) is posted at police station 
Sadar Bazar. He has also filed a list (Exhibit PW. 6/5) 
of meetings held within the jurisdiction or the Sadar 
Bazar police station. One part of the list pertains to 
meetings of the Congress; another to meetings of the 
Jana Sangh and the third to meetings of other political 
parties. According to this list, respondent No. 1 held 
the following meetings : — 

1. On 13th February, 1 97 1 at Kishanganj. 

2. On 15th February, 1971 at Baeichi Tatu Shah. 

3. On 18th February, 1971 at Qasaboura. 

4. On 20th February, 1971 at Chowk Bara Tooti. 

5. On 21st February, 1971 at Deputy Ganj 

6. On 21st February, 1971 at Tellwara. 

7. On 25th February, 1971 at Nara.yan Market. 

These meetings ar e admitted by respondent No. 1 in 
his statement dated March 31, 1972. The list (Exhibit 
P.W. 6/5) also mentions that a meeting was scheduled 
to be held on 24th February, 1971 at Teliwara but 
It was cancelled and this fact is also confirmed by the 
statements of respondent No. l and bis witnesses. 

Chaman Lai (P.W. 7) is posted at police station 
Paharganj. He has also filed a list (Exhibit PW. 7/71) 
of meetings held within the area of this police station. 
The details of these meetings according to the list 
(Exhibit PW. 7/1) are:— 

1. On 19th February, 1971 at Tel Mandi. 

2. On 22nd February, 1971 at Chuna Mandi 

3. On 24th February, 1971 at Chowk Chhe Tooti. 

4 . On 23th February. 1971 at Katra Karim 

5- On 1st March, 1971 at Chowk Chhe Tooti. 

6. On 2nd March, 1971 at Chowk Neemwala. 


7. On 2nd March, 1971 at Ara Kashan Lachhman- 
puri 

These meetings are admitted by respondent No. 1 in 
his statement on March 31, 1972. in addition to these 
admitted meetings, the list (Exhibit P.W. 7/1) mentions 
that a meeting scheduled to be held at Chuna Mandi on 
17th February, 1871 was cancelled- It further mentions 
a meeting at Multani Dhanda on 18th January, 1971 in 
respect of which it is stated that T. Sohan Lai, a 
Congress candidate for election to Parliament from the 
Karol Bagh Constituency, was one of the speakers. It 
is the ease of respondent No. 1 that this meeting must 
have been a meeting organised by T. Sohan Lai and 
was not a meeting organised by respondent No. 1. Om 
Parkash Marken (RIW. 1), admittedly a worker of 
respondent No. 1, has denied in his statement dated 
February 7, 1972, any meeting of respondent No. 1 at 
Multani Dhanda on 18th February, 1971. He has also 
stated that the area of T. Sohan Lai also fell in Multani 
Dhanda in the jurisdiction of police station Paharganj 
and that he .might have held this meeting for his Own 
election. If appears to me that the case of respondent 
No. 1 that he did not hold any meeting on 18th Febru- 
ary, 1971 at Multani Dhanda Is correct- The list (Ex- 
hibit PW. 7/71) also shows that meetings which were 
scheduled to be held at Multani Dhanda on 22nd Febru- 
ary, 1971; at Ara KaBhan on 27th February, 1!)71 and 
Luohhmanpuri on 1st March, 1971 were cancelled. 

Lastly, Ram Murti Sharma (PW. 8) who was posted 
at police station Subzimandi has filed a list (Exhibit 
PW. 8/3) of meetings held by respondent No. 1 within 
the jurisdiction of this police station. These meetings 
are: — 

1. On 16th February, 1971 at Clock Tower, Sabzi- 

mandi. 

2. On 16th February, 1971 at. 'K’ Block Andha 

Mughal, 

3. On 19th February, 1971 at Roshanara Road. 

4. On 1st March, 107 1 at ‘P’ Block Andha Mughal, 

5. On 23rd February, 1971 at Malkaganj. 

6. On 2nd March, 197 1 at Ghantaghar Subzimandi. 

All these meetings are admitted by respondent No. 1 
in his statement dated March 31, 1972. 

According to these four lists (Exhibit PW. 1/71); 
Exhibit PW: 6/5; Exhibit PW. 7/1 and Exhibit PW. 8/1. 
the total meetings held by respondent No. l are 22 and 
if the cancelled meeting of Teliwara on 24th February, 
1971 is added, the case of respondent No. 1 that he had 
arranged 23 meetings stands proved. 

I will now deal with the other witnesses on whose 
evidence the petitioner relies to show that meetings in 
addition to the 23 meetings admitted by respondent 
No. 1 and as proved by the aforesaid four lists were 
held by him. These witnesses belong to the C. I. D. 
(Special Branch), Delhi- Mahinderpal Singh (PW. 20) 
is an Inspector in the C. I. D. (Speclal'Branch) at Delhi. 
He stated that during the election period his staff used 
to cover election meetings and that the meetings held 
by respondent No. 1 were also covered. He further 
stated that persons who were sent to to cover these 
meetings used to take the purport of The speeches 
either in shorthand o r from memory and reports about 
the speeches used to be submitted to the Deputy Supe- 
rintendent of Police, C. I. D. He was theh asked to 
produce hi s records of these meetings which were 
covered by his staff and, In answer, he produced an 
affidavit of the Inspector General of Police, claiming 
privilege. By my order dated January 12, 1972. the 
claim of privilege was upheld. Earlier I had made an 
order on January 4, 1972, directing this witness to 
give to the counsel for the petitioner a list of the 
persons who were deputed to attend the Congress meet- 
ings in this constituency together with their official 
addre’sSes; the dates of meetings attended the times of 
the meetings and the list of the speakers at such meet- 



[Part 11^ 


4494 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA: OCTOBER 21. 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


ifigs. Such a statement was furnished by this witness 
to the counsel lor the petitioner and through i. A. 
No. 645 of [972, a prayer whs made on behalf of the 
petitioner to read this Statement, filed with the applica- 
tion, as evidence this case. By my order dated 
April ,20, 1972. Ihis prayer was refused. However, the 
petitioner produced some of these C. I. D. personnel to 
speak orally abou t the meetings covered by them. 

The first witness is Umesh Chander (PW. 39) who 
stated that he covered election meetings in this consti- 
tuency and attended meetings at Chhe Tootl in Pahar- 
ganj; Ghantaghar in Sabzimandi; Tel Mandi; Amarpuri 
Colony in Paharganj; Chdtvk Azad Market and near 
Imperial Cinema. He did not state that all these were 
Congress meetings of respondent No. 1 . It was argued 
on behalf of the petitioner that the meetings at Chowk 
Azad Market and Amarpuri Colony posed to by this 
witness were meetings of respondent No. 1 in addition 
to Ihe admitted meetings. This claim is belied by the 
list Exhibit PW. 66/5 in which the meetings at these 
two place s are stated to be meetings of political parties 
other than the Congress and the Jana Sangh. 

The next witness la Ranbir Singh (PW. 49) who is a 
Sub-Inspector in C. I. D- (Special Branch). He states 
that he covered three or four election meetings oi 
respondent No. 1. He further states that he attended 
meetings at Paharj Dhiraj and three other places. 
According to the petitioner, the meeting at Pahari 
Dhiraj is an additions meeting. The meeting at Pahari 
Dhiraj is Shown In the list Exhibit PW. 6/5 as a meet- 
ing oil political parties other than the Congress and the 
Jana Sangh. Respondent No. 1 has also denied in his 
statement dated April 3> 1972, about the holding of any 
meeting at Pahari Dhiraj on 27th February, 1971 or on 
any other date. This statement was made to contradict 
the statement of the petitioner made on January 25, 
1972, that respondent No. 1 had organised a meeting 
at Pahari Dhiraj on 27th February, 197<1 which he 
attended and at which respondent No. 1 and respondent 
No. 5 and spoken. In view of the documentary evidence 
furbished by the list Exhibit PW. 6/5 that the meeting 
at Pahari Dhiraj on 27th February, 1971 was not of the 
Congress or the Jana Sangh, I accept the statement of 
respondent No. 1 within regard to this meeting and 
reject the petitioner’s contention that this meeting was 
a meeting of respondent No. 1. 

The next witness is Daulat Ram (PW. 42) who is a 
Sub-Inspector in the C. I. D. (Special Branch), He 
has stated that he covered two election meetings of 
respondent No. 1 at Chowk Bara Tootl and at Hathi 
Khana, Bahadurgarh Road- The contention of the 
petitioner Is that the meeting at Bahadurgarh Road is 
an additional meeting. This witness has spoken from 
memory and his statement about this meeting cannot 
be accepted in view of the fact that no meeting at 
Bahadurgarh Road is mentioned in any of the four 
lists Exhibits PW. 1/1; PW. ff/5; PW. 7/1 and PW, 8/3 
as having been held by respondent No. 1. 

The next witness is Sukhbir "Singh (PW. 46) who is 
a Head Constable in C. 1. D. (Special Branch). He 
has stated that he covered one meeting of respondent 
No. 1 in this constituency on 26th February, 1971 at 
Chhoti Masjid, Bara Hindu Rao, This meeting is 
mentioned in the list Exhibit PW. 6/5 as a meeting 
organised by other political parties and not by the 
Congress. It Is true that permission to hold a meeting 
at this place had been granted by Exhibit PW. 6/1 but 
according to the statement of Subhash Arya (RIW. 35) 
dated 29th March. 1972 this meeting was not held. In 
view of the fact that a meeting at this place Is not 
mentioned as a meeting of the Congress in the list 
Exhibit PW. 6/5 and further in view of the statement 
of Subhash Arya (RIW. 35) that this meeting was not 
held. I hold that respondent No. 1 did not hold this 
meeting. 

The next witness is Sher Singh (PW.45) of the 
C.I.D. (Special Branch) who has spoke about covering 
two meetings of respondent No. 1 in Chowk Nabi 


Karim and Chowk Neemwala in Nabi Karim on 26lh 
February 1871 and 2nd March 1971. respectively. The 
meeting in Chowk Neemwala on 2nd March 1071 is an 
admitted meeting and is also mentioned in the list 
Exhibit PW. 7/1, in view of the fact that the meeting 
at Chowk Nabi Karim on 26th February 1971 is not 
mentioned in any of the aforesaid four lists, it is diffi- 
cult to rely upon the mere memory of this witness to 
hold that this meeting was held. 

Nand Lai (RIW.B) has spoken of a meeting on 1st 
March 1971 in ‘P’ Block Andha Mughal and Bhana Ram 
(RIW. 11) has spoken of a meeting at Lachhmanpuri 
Chowk on 2nd March 1971. These two meetinga are 
claimed to be meetings additional to the 23 admitted 
meetings. This claim is made on a rather involved re- 
asoning. It is argued that according to the statement 
dated 29th March 1972 of Subhas Arya (RIW. 35), the 
12 meetings which were furnished by Tandan Tent and 
furniture House were big meetings and the remaining 
H meetings furnished by Agarwal Tent House were 
small meetings. It is men urged that Subhas Arya 
(RW1 35) has not stated that these two meet 
mgs were big meetings and inasmuch as the 
furniture at these meetings corresponded to the 
furniture supplied by Agarwal Tent House, two 
meetings must be small meetings. The argu- 
ment the advanced is that this furniture could not 
have been supplied by Tandan Tent and Furniture 
House because they supplied furniture only for the 12 
big meeting and this furniture could not have been 
supplied by Agarwal Tent House because they did not 
supply any furniture in March. 1971. The conclusion 
which is sought to be arrived at from thi3 process of 
reasoning is that these two meetings must be small 
meetings which were not furnished by Agarwal Tent 
House and, therefore, must have been furnished by 
some other person. There is no substance in his argu- 
ment. These two meetings are meetings which were 
admitted by respondent No, 1 and which are mention- 
ed in the list Exhibit P.W. 8/3 as to the meeting at 
‘P’ Block Andha Mughal on 1st March 1971 and in the 
list Exhibit PW 7/1 as to the meeting at Lachhman- 
puri chowk on 2nd March 1971 and it is impossible to 
conceive that two big meetings and/or two small meet- 
ings were held at the same places at the same time. 
The distinction drawn by Subnash Arya (RIW. 35) bet- 
ween big meetings and small meetings appears to me 
to be a distinction without a difference. 

Another meeting which is alleged to be a meeting of 
the respondent is the meeting which was held on 28th 
February 1971 at Idgah. This meeting has been des- 
cribed by witnesses either as the Idgah meeting or the 
Prime Minister’s meeting because the Prime Minister. 
Smt. Indira Gandhi, spoke at this meeting. Govind 
Ram Verma (PW.19) has admitted in his cross-exami- 
nation on December 23. 1971. that Idgah itself is not 
in the Delhi Sadar Parliamentary Constituency and 
the place where the Prime Minister’s meeting was held 
is in the Karol Bagh constituency. It is not disput- 
ed hy the petitioner and there is evidence to that 
effect on the rcord that T. Sohan Lai was the Congress 
candidate from the Karol Bagh constituency, Res- 
pondent No. 1 denies in his statement on April 3, 
1972, having any hand or incurring any expense in 
connection with the Idgah meeting. Subhash Arva 
(RlW.35) who is alleged Iby respondent No. 1 to be 
in charge of the Congress election office in the Delhi 
Sadar Parliamentary Constituency and who arranged 
for the meetings of respondent No. 1 has said in his 
statement dated March 29. 1972 that he did not have 
any hard in making any arrangement including the Ob- 
taining of permission or supply of furniture etc. for the 
Idgah meeting held on 28th February 1971, Trilochan 
Singh (RIW. 5) states in his examination on February 
8. 1972 that on 28th February 1972, five election meet- 
ings were held in different parts of Delhi at which 
Smt. Indira Gandhi spoke and that he was present 
at three of hese meetings including the one at Idgah. 
Tie states that when Smt. Indira Gandhi came ,up 



4495 


;«-.c -Ui<'] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


the stage in this meeting, respondent No. 1 and T. 
Sohan Lai, Congress candidate from the Karo] B&gh 
constituency, also came up on the Stage, He further 
states that respondent No. 1; T. Sohan Lai and Radha 
Raman, President of the Delhi Pradesh Congress Com- 
mittee, spoke first and then Smt. Indira Gandhi spoke 
at this meeting for 30 or 35 minutes. In cioas-expia- 
mination he asserts that this meeting was arranged 
by the Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee but it was 
not particularly arranged for respondent No. 1 because 
in her speeches in election meetings, Smt. Indira 
Gandhi did not speak about any particular candidate 
hut generally in favour of all Congress candidates. 

The petitioner has relied upon various circumstances 
to show that this Idgah meeting was arranged by, foi 
and at the expense of respondent No. 1. The first 
circumstance is that respondent No. 1 has, with his 
return of expenses, filed a voucher, of Rs. 35 dated 
28th February 1971 for the hire of scooter No. DHR- 
84 which states “publicity for Prime Minister 8 a.m. 
to 7 pun ”, This voucher is at page 19 of the file 
Exhibit PW. 5/1. The argument is that if the Idgah 
meeting had not been arranged by, for or at the ex- 
pense of respondent No. 1, he would not have filed 
this voucher in connection with this meeting as to 
expenses incurred in his election In his cross-exa- 
mination on April 5, 1972, respondent No. 1 has stated 
that on 28th February 1971 he had sent his wife and 
one Miss Abrol In a scooter to the Qasabpura area to 
ask the women of that locality to attend the Idgah 
meeting. He was not asked in cross-examination to 
explain why he had shown this expense of Rs. 35 in 
connection with the expenses incurred by him in his 
electon but he has stated that the expense on the 
idgah meeting wag incurred by the Delhi Pradesh 
Congress Committee who must be having the neces- 
sary records. In saying so he corroborates the testi- 
mony of Trilochan Singh (RIW. 5). It is not possible 
to hold that the Idgah meeting was by, for or at the 
expense of respondent No. 1 merely on the basis of 
the aforesaid voucher for Rs. 35. The obvious ex- 
planation for including the aforesaid voucher in his 
own return of expenses is that It had been incurred 
upon a scooter in which his wife and Miss Abrol were 
sent in the Qasabpura area which a undoubtedly in 
the Delhi Sadar Parliamentary Constituency. The 
next circumstance relied upon by the petitioner is 
that respondent No. 1 was not only present at the 
Idgah meeting but he also spoke there, No conclu- 
sion can be derived from this fact because the fact 
that a person is a candidate from a particular cons- 
tituency does not preclude him from attending elec- 
tion meetings held in another constituency or election 
meetings which may be organised by the politcal party 
to which he belongs and where the leader of that 
political party is to speak. Then it is argued that 
there is no evidence that T. Sohan Lai who was the 
Congress candidate from the Karol Bagh constituency 
bore the expenses of the Idgah meeting which fell 
in his constituency. This argument is futile because 
it is no body’s case that. T. Sohan Lai bore the ex- 
penses of the Idgah meeting. On the other hand, the 
case of respondent No. 1, In corroboration to the 
statement of Trilochan Singh (RIW. 51, is that the 
Idgah meeting was arranged by the Delhi Pradesh 
Congress Committee. It is then argued that there 
■was evidence which could be summoned by respondent 
No. I to prove conclusively that the expenses of the 
Idgah meeting were borne by the Delhi Pradesh 
Congrss Committee and this evidence would comprise 
the records of the Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee 
which would have shown that the expense of the Idgah 
meeting was borne by them. It is further argued 
that Radha Raman, President of the Delhi Pradesh 
Congress Committee, has not been produced. Reliance 
is, placed by the petitioner on the case reported in 
A.I.R. 1981 Supreme Court 1318 in re. Kundari Lai 
Ruliaram v. Custodian, Evacuee Property, Bombay, 
where in dealing with a case of presumption under 
section 118 of the Negotiable Instruments act, it has 
been observed that the phrase "burden of proof’ has 
two meanings— one the burden of proof as a matter 


ol law and pleading and the other the burden’ of 
es abiishing a case the former is fixed as a question 
oi :aw on the absis of the pleadings and is unchanged 
dm mg the entire trial, whereas the latter Is not 
constant but shifts as soon as a party adduces suffi- 
cient evidence lo raise a presumption in his favour, 
it is necessary for the application of this principle of 
shifting burden of proof that the party on whom the 
burden of proof lies Initially has adduced sufficient 
evidence to raise a presumption in his favour. There 
is no evidence adduced by the petitioner, apart from 
oral ststments of his own witnesses who were not 
connected with the expense for arranging the Idgah 
meeting, that it had been arranged by respondent 
No. 1. The question of the burden shifting, therefore, 
does not arise, It had also been observed in this case 
that if a plaintiff has in his possession relevant ac- 
count books to show that he was in possession of the 
goods sold and that the sale was effected for a parti- 
cular consideration, he should produce such books and 
if such books are withheld, the Court can draw a 
presumption against him under section 114 of the Indian 
Evidence Act. The books of the Delhi Pradesh Con- 
gress Committee cannnot be said to be the books of 
i cspondent No. 1 apart from the fact that the burden 
of proving that the Idgah meeting was at his expense 
is not upon him. I fail to see tne application at the 
principles enunciated in this case to the facts of the 
present case. Then, the petitioner has produced K. K. 
Srivastav (PW.47), an attorny of the Delhi Electric 
Supply undertaking who has produced an application 
for a temporary electric connection for the Idgah 
meeting which purports to have been made by one 
Swami Atam Bodh. This Swami Atam Bodh has not 
been produced by the petitioner. It is not possible 
for me to accept the argument that because Swami 
Atam Bodh applied for the electric connection of 
Idgah meeting it could not have been a meeting at 
the expense of the Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee 
and, therefore, should be held to be a meeting held at 
th expense of respondent No. 1. If the petitioner has 
laild to prove his case connecting the idgah meeting 
with respondent No. l in relation to its expenses, I do 
not see why respondent No, 1 should have been ex- 
pected to produce Radha Raman, President < f the 
Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee or even Swami 
Atam Bodh. It is then contested that the petitioner 
had summoned records from the Delhi Pradesh Con- 
gress Committee and Qhandu Lai Parwana (PW 38), 
it permanent Secretary, was examined without oath. 
This witness admits that the Delhi Pradesh Congress 
Committee spent money on all the constituencies 
which were being contested by the congress but no 
separate record of amounts spent in each constituency 
was maintained by them. He also states that they 
did not maintain any record of the meetings addressed 
by the Prime Minister. While the petitioner has re- 
lied upon the account books of the Delhi Pradesh 
Congress Committee at item No. 12 of his list of re- 
liance, the summons issued to the General Secretary 
of the Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee containing 
a list of records required to be produced merely men- 
tioned the records relating to public meetings "includ- 
ing that of the meeting addressed by the Prime Minis- 
ter.” No specific record relating to the expense of the 
Idgah meeting was summoned from this witness. Taking 
the aforesaid circumstances into consideration indi- 
vidually and collectively it cannot be said that the 
petitioner has discharged the burden of connecting 
respondent No. 1 with the Idgah meeting so as to enable 
me to hold that the Idgah meeting was by, for or at 
Ihc expense of respondent No, 1. 

In the result, I hold that the petitioner has failed 
to prove either that respondent No. 1 held any meet- 
ings additional to the 23 meetings admitted by him 
or the Idagh meeting. 

Then I come to the question as to whether the ex- 
penses at the meetings of respondent No. 1 were as 
stated by him, that is. Rs. 30 per meeting fpr the 12 
meetings’ for which arrangements were made through 
Tandan Tent and Furniture House and Saini Electric 



|P.\IU I/.— 


4496 


11 ;j£ GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVTNA 29, 1894 


Works and Rs, 40 per meeting lor the 31 meetings 
furnished toy Agarwal Tent House or whether the 
expenses were much more. It is argued that it is 
established on the record by the testimony of various 
witnesses, firstly, that the rates of hiring of furniture 
and electric equipment were much more than the 
rates mentioned in the bills of Tandan Tent and 
Furniture House; Saini Electric Works and Agrwni 
Tent House and secondly, that the furniture, other 
furnishings and electrict arrangements at all these 
meetings were on a much larger and higher scale 
than the furniture and electric equipment" described in 
the bills of the aforesaid three firms which have been 
detailed earlier in this judgment. It is, therefore, 
contended that I should rely upon the testimony of 
these witnesses and hold that the furnishings at these 
meetings were on a much larger and higher scale and 
that I should estimate the expenses according to the 
estimates given by the witnesses as to tho scale of 
furnishings. 

Section 77 of the Act requires a candidate to keep 
separate and correct account of all expenditure in 
connection with the election incurred or authorized 
by him or by his election agent between the dates 
specified in the section. The liability imposed by 
this section is in respect of expenditure incurred or 
authorized by him or bv his election agent. There- 
fore, n petitioner has to prove the incurring or autho- 
rizing of that expenditure. It is contended that even 
of the actual amount incurred or authorized by the 
returned candidate is not nroved, it is for this court 
to make an estimate of the expenditure that must 
have been incurred or authorized by the returned 
candidate upon the evidence In the case. Reliance for 
this proposition i a placed on a Division Bench Judg- 
ment of the Bombay High Court reported in 11958) 
17 Election Law reports 37 in Re: Shivram Snwant. 
Bhomate v. Pratap Rao Deorao Bhonsale. The Divi- 
sion Bench were hearing an appeal against the deci- 
sion of an Election Tribunal. The Election Tribunal 
had found that certain items of expenditure had been 
suppressed and had not been shown in the return of 
expenses filed on behalf of the returned candidate 
but it did not take them into consideration in' arriv- 
ing at the total figure of expenditure incurred by the 
returned candidate on' the ground that the exact 
amount that must have been spent had not been prov- 
ed by the petitioner. The Division Bench then went 
into the various items which were alleged to have been 
suppressed and with respect to certain items found 
that they had been suppressed. There was therefore, 
a finding that the returned candidate had incurred or 
authorised the expenses on certain items which had 
not been shown in the return of election expenses. On 
this finding the Division Bench observed, — 

“Tf the Tribunal comes to a conclusion that an 
item of expenditure has been suppressed in 
the return of election expenses, the mere fact 
that there is no sufficient evidence about the 
amount that mu3t have been spent is no 
ground for saying that the matter is to he 
ignored. As far as possible it would be the 
duty of the Tribunal to assess the amount of 
expenses as best it can. We do not suggest 
that the Tribunal should enter into any region 
of speculation or merely try to guess the 
amount that mus* have been spent. But It. 
would generally be possible to arrive at an 
amount, of expenditure on a conservative 
basis and where it is possible arrive at any 
such estimate, such estimated amount should 
be held ag not shown by the candidate in his 
election accounts.” 

Speculation or guess has, therefore, been ruled out 
even in cases where expense on a particular item is 
proved to have been incurred or authorized but the 
actual amount incurred or authorized has not been 
nroved. What has been held to be necessary to be 
done is that the amount of expenditure should he 


estimated on a conservative basis where it was possi- 
ble to arrive at Buch estimate. This decision was ap- 
proved in Magra j Patodia’s case reported in A.I.R. 
1971 Supreme Court 1295. Therefore, in dealing with 
the question of expenses incurred or authorized by 
respondent No. 1 or his election agent, it will have 
to be established, first on the evidence on record that 
additional items of expenses not shown by the return- 
ed candidate in his return of expenses were actually 
incurred or authorised and it is only then that it will 
be necessary to estimate such expenses on' a conser- 
vative basis on the evidence on the record. It is in the 
light of this principle that it will have to he found 
whether respondent No. 1 incurred or authorised ex- 
penditure on the 23 meetings in excess of the expen- 
diture admitted by him. 

Madan Lai Khurana (PW.10) belongs to the Jana 
Sangh Party and was the Chief Whip in the Metro- 
politan Council Delhi. He is also the Joint Secretary 
of the Delhi Pradesh Jana Sangh party. He has 
stated in his examination in-Chief on December, 21, 
1971 that he saw several meetings on behalf of res- 
pondent No, 1 in several areas in the constituency but 
he heard what was being said only in one of the 
meeting which was held on March 1 ,1971, in 
Chowk Chhe Tooti sitting in his office. According to 
him there were durries, dais, chairs, arrangement, for 
light and loudspeakers in the meetings of respondent 
No. 1 which he saw. Hig estimate of expenses per 
meeting is about Rs. 500 to Rs. 700. He has not given 
the number of durries, the number of Takhats of 
which the dais was made, the number, of lights or the 
number of loudspeakers $0 as to show that they were 
more than are to be found in the bills of Tandan Tent 
and Furniture House; Saini Electric Works or Agrawa) 
Tent House. He has also admitted in his cross-examina- 
tion on the aforesaid date that he did not attend anv of 
the meetings referred to bv him but only saw them 
and heard the meeting at Chowk Chhe Tooti from his 
office which was about 150 or 200 yards from the place 
of the meeting. From the statement of this witness 
it is not possible to come to a conclusion that in res- 
pect of the meeting at Chowk Chhe Tooti or the other 
meetings olf respondent No. 1 at Chuna Mandi. Tel 
Mandi, Dal Mandi and Multani Dhanda which this 
witness alleges to have seen, the aforesaid items of 
furnishings were more in number than have been 
mentioned in the bills of the aforesaid three firms 
and it is not possible for this Court to estimate the 
expenses on this evidence. I may only add that the 
only additional item of furniture deposed to by this 
witness is “chairs”. He has not been corroborated as 
to this item by any evidence worth the name. 

The next witness is Joginder Nath Kapur (PW.14J 
He is a Secretary of the Nabi Karim Mandal of the 
Jana Sangh. In his examination-in-chief on Decem- 
ber 22. 1971. he has stated that he saw a meeting on 
respondent No. 1 in Neemwala Chowk, Nabi Karim 
on March 2, 1971 where he saw a decorated stage: 
loudspeakers, lights and durries. When his examina- 
tion-in-ehief was continued on December 23, 1971, he 
amplified his statement with respect to the lights bv 
stating that there were mercury bulbs and that there 
must have been' 100 to 200 durries. In so far as tbe 
various items of furnishings are concerned, there is 
no inconsistency between the statement of this witness 
and tbe furnishings supplied toy the aforesaid three 
firms except in respect of durries. The estimate of 
this witness is really no estimate because of the big ' 
gap between 100 and 200. The evidence of this wit- 
ness is insufficient to come to a definite finding as to 
the number of durries at the meeting held at Neem- 
wala Chowk and in view of the fact that he belongs 
to the political party of the petitioner, it is not diffi- 
cult to assume that in the matter of his estimate of 
the number of durries. there is exaggeration apart 
from the fact that the statement is not definite. It 
Is not. therefore, possible to make an estimate on the 
testimony of this witness with reference to tbe ex- 
penses of the meeting at Chowk Neemwala. 



Sec. 3(h)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; 


The next witness is Parmodh Kumar (PW. 16) 
who is a supplier of tents, shamianas and crockery 
on hire. He states that he knows respondent No. 1 
and that he hived out durries, stage, loudspeakers 
etc. to him during the election period. He has pro- 
duced the following three bills or such supplies:— 
plies: — 

1. Bill No. 263 dated 20-2-1971 for Rs 368. 

(Exhibit PW. 15/1-A.) 

2. Bill No. 270 dated 24-2-1971 for Rs. 414.50. 

(Exhibit PW. 15/1-B.) 

3. Bill No. 271 dated 24-2-1971 for Rs. 360. 

(Exhibit PW. 15/1-C.) 

All these bills are made out in the name of Respon- 
dent No. 1. The first two bills are for meetings at 
Tal Mandi and Chuno Mandi on 19-2-1971 and 22- 
2-1971, respectively. The third bill is for supply of 
loudspeakers. He admits that he keeps accounts 
of his business and he maintained account of the 
shamianas and durries which were hired out by him 
during the election. However, he did not produce 
any account other than the bill book containing the 
aforesaid bills. In cross-examination he stated that 
he did not maintain any receipt books and the pay- 
ments received are entered on the bills itself. He 
went iirrther and stated that he does not maintain 
any cash book or ledger or any other account Book. 
It was also elicited in cross-examination that the 
bills in the bill book contain serial numbers and bill 
No, 256 bears an earlier date (14th February, 1971) 
while the earlier bill No. 295 bears a later (dated T5th 
February, 1971) was m ade earlier than the bill No. 
February, 1971 was made earlier than the bill No. 
236 dated 14th February, 1971. He further states 
that respondent No. 1, accompanied by Satya Parkasb 
Maken (RIW. 33). had come to place the order which 
was dictated to him but he has not produced the 
memorandum which he made at that time. He fur- 
ther admits that he was a partner of Padam Chand 
Goel who was a Member of the Delhi Municipal Cor- 
poration on the Jana Sangh ticket. Respondent No. 

1 has denied placing any order with this witness. 
No signatures of respondent No. 1 either upon the 
order placed by him or upon the bill when making 
the payment have been shown. There Is absence of 
a receipt book. The accounts relating to the furni- 
ture hired which is alleged bv this witness in his 
examination-ln-ehlef to have been kept by him have 
not been produced. In the face of the denial of res- 
pondent No. 1', it is not possible to hold conclusively 
on the basis of the copies of the aforesaid three bills 
and in the other circumstances adverted to earlier 
that this witness had supplied any furniture to res- 
pondent No. 1 as alleged by him. 

A mere bill book is not, in the strict sense, a book 
of account. In the face of denial by the person 
sought to be charged as having incurred an expense, 
a bill book cannot be said to be such unimpeachable 
documentary evidence which even though supported 
by an oral statement can be held to be sufficient to 
charge a person with liability. The Supreme Court 
has said in Pursushothama Reddiar'x case reported 
in A.I.R. 1972 Supreme Court 608 that in - election 
cases, though oral evidence has to be appreciated 
with great deal of care, the Courts should not reject 
the oral evidence which is highly probable and is 
corroborated by unimpeachable documentary evid- 
ence. The oral evidence of this witness is not even 
highly probable. Bill No. 263 (Exhibit PW. 15/1-A) 
dated 20th February, 1971 is alleged to be for sup- 
ply of furniture for the meeting of respondent No. 1 
at Tel Mandi on 19th February, 1971, Bill No. 270 
(Exhibit PW 15/1-B) dated the 24th February, 1971 is 
for supplv of furniture for a meeting of respondent 
No. 1 at Chuna Mandi on 22nd February, 1971. The 
meetings at both these places are admitted meetings 
of respondent No. 1 which, prior to 20th February 
1971 were furnished bv Agarwol Tent House and 
subsequent to 20th February, 1971 either by Agarwal 
Tent House or Tandan' Tent and Furniture House. 


OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA ?9, 1894 


It is, therefore, highly- improbable that for these two 
meetings respondent No, 1 would have hired any fur- 
niture from a different source in addition, I have, 
therefore, no hesitation in rejecting the testimony of 
PW. 15 and the argument that the respondent had 
incurred an expense of Rs. 1142.50 for hire ol furni- 
ture through this witness. 

The next witness is Om Parkaah Saehdeva (PW. 
21). In his examination-in-chief he did not disclose 
his political affiliation but in his cross-examination 
he admitted that for the 1st three years he had been 
President of the Jana Sangh Mandal, Rahatganj. 
This witness alleges that he supplied 25 reams of 
paper worth Rs. 920.40 to respondent No. 1 which 
amount is also alleged to have been incurred by res- 
pondent No. 1 in addition to the admitted amounts. 
This question I will deal with later. At the moment 
I am concerned with the statement of this witness as 
to the election meetings of respondent No. 1 which 
he is alleged to have seen. He states that he saw 
four or five meetings of respondent No. 1 and in 
every such meeting there used to be about 250 dur- 
ries and a big stage for seating about 40 to 50 people. 
In cross-examination he 'belittles the extent of expen- 
ture. on Jana Sangh meetings and then he ampUflea 
his statement in examination-in-chief by stating that 
at Congress meetings there were 10 or 12 loud- 
speakers and about 200 fluorescent tubes. He states 
that the meetings of respondent No. 1 that he saw 
were at Bara Tootl Chowk; Azad Market and Ghanta- 
ghar Sabzimandi. I have already held that there was 
no meeting of respondent No, 1 at Azad Market and 
1 state it only for the purpose of showing that mem- 
bers belonging to a political party can exaggerate to 
any extent. This witness has also exaggerated when 
he speaks of 10 or 12 loudspeakers and 200 fluores- 
cent tubes at the Congress meetings. He has depos- 
ed to these meetings even though be has admitted in 
cross-examination mat he had not mentioned about 
the speeches at these meetings to the petitioner. This 
sort of vague oral statement about the furnishings at 
a meeting unsupported by unimpeachable documentary 
evidence cannot be accepted so as to enable me to 
hold that the furnishings at the meetings of respon- 
dent No. 1 were much more than admitted hy him. 

The next witness is Gopal Krishan Arora (PW. 23), 
He also has political affinity with the petitioner as he 
is a member of the working Committee of the Sadar 
District Jana Sangh and in March, 1971, he was the 
Joint Secretary of the Sadar District Jana Sangh. He 
admits that he was In charge of the publicity on be- 
half of the Jana Sangh including issuing of posters, 
handbills etc. In his examinatlon-in-chlef, he states 
that respondent No. 1 must have organised 35 to 40 
meetings during the election period. He exaggerates 
here because, according to my finding, respondent No, 

1 held only 23 meetings. The witness goes on to say 
that in each meeting there used to be a state to ac- 
commodate 30 to 35 people; sliamianas, chairs, durries, 
carpets on the dais, loudspeakers, flood lights and de- 
coration lights. According to him, the stage was made 
of Takhats and tables and in ordinary meetings there 
would be 70 to 80 durries while in big meetings there 
were 300 or 400 durries. Exaggeration is writ large 
on the testimony of this witness because he talks of 
shamianas, chairs, charpets and decoration lights in' 
each meeting in which statement he is not supported 
by any other witness produced by the petitioner. Ac- 
cording to the estimate of this witness, the cost of 
each meeting of respondent No. 1 would be Rs. 500 to 
Rs. 800. It Is really not necessary to deal in great 
detail with the statement of this witness because here 
again there Is exaggeration: vague statement and no 
support from any unimpeachable documentary evid- 
ence. In cross-examination he admits that he did not 
attend any of the meetings held by respondent No. 1 
except for staying there for a minute or so while on 
his wav from place to place and these meetings were 
attended bv 2,000 or 3,000 to 20,000 or 25,000 persons. 
The Improbability of his statement is apparent from 



4498 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVTNA 29, 1894 


[Paiu li- 


the fact that he has deposed about the furnishings of 
each of the meetings of respondent No. 1 even though 
he stayed in the meetings for a minute or so while 
on his way from place to place. No reliance can be 
placed on his testimony to support the case of the 
petitioner that the meetings of respondent No. 1 had 
any furniture of furnishings in excess of the admit- 
ted furniture or furnishings. I may only add with re- 
gard to this witness that he is one of the omnibds 
witnesses produced by the petitioner who has depos- 
ed about practically every aspect of the matter which 
falls lor consideration in this case. 1 have no hesita- 
tion in rejecting his testimony as vague; highly im- 
probable and exaggerated. 

The next witness is Inder Mohan Bhardwaj (PW. 30) 
who is another omnibus witness and admittedly has 
political affinity with the petitioner because he is a 
Councillor of the Municipal Corporation of Delhi from 
the Pul Bangash constituency on the Jana Sangh ticket 
and his father was a member of the Metropolitan 
Council from the Pul Bangash Partapnagar constitu- 
ency on the Jana Sangh ticket since 1967. He speaks 
of three meetings of respondent No. 1 which he attend- 
ed. One meeting was at Chowk Bara Tootl on 22nd 
February, 1971 where he saw a big stage made out of 
60 or 70 Takhats; about 200 durries; 20 or 25 flood 
fights on the stage and other places; carpets on the 
stage, three microphones on the stage and about. 20 
loudspeakers in the area of the meeting. According 
to my findings, there was no meeting of respondent 
No. i at Chowk Bara Tootl on 22nd February, 1971. 
Meeting at this place was on 20th February, 1971. 
With regard to the furnishing# particularly the num- 
ber of Takhats; number of flood lights on the stage 
and at other places; carpets on the stage and num- 
ber of loudspeakers, this witness has exaggerated and 
his statement does not find corroboration from any 
other witness produced by the petitioner. The places 
from where these furnishings and furniture were ob- 
tained are not stated nor has any witness been pro- 
duced by the petitioner who might have furnished 
this meeting lor respondent No. 1, The statement, 
therefore, appears to me to be highly improbable apart 
from being unsupported by any unimpeachable docu- 
mentary evidence. The second meeting that he alle- 
ges to have seen was at Pul Bangash on 26th Febru- 
ary, 1971 and the third meeting at Library Road on 
1st March, 1971. According to my finding given ear- 
lier, there were no meetings of respondent No. 1 at 
any of these places and, therefore, the extent of fur- 
nishings in these two meetings deposed to by this 
witness must be based upon imagination rather than 
upon facts. He states that at the Pul Bangash meet- 
ing there was a big stage, the size of which he does 
not give; about 125 durries; about 15 flood lights; about 
10 loudspeakers and 2 microphones on the stage. For 
the meeting at Library Road, there were about 8 or 
10 Takhats; about 90 durries, one microphone; 2 loud- 
speakers and 5 or 6 flood lights. Subject to what I 
have said, the extent of furnishings is, at best, a guess 
on the part of this witness of which there is no cor- 
roboration from any other witness of the petitioner. 
Another aspect which may be taken into considera- 
tion is that according to this witness the furnishings 
at the three meetings which he has alleged to have 
seen were not identical and differed considerably from 
meeting to meeting. This is true also of the other 
witnesses of the petitioner who are alleged x o have 
seen more than one meeting. In this situation, it is im - 
possible for this Court to make even an estimate of the 
expenses Incurred or authorized by reapondent No, 1 
at each meeting even if it be assumed that expenses 
of these furnishings were incurred by him. For all 
these reasons I cannot rely upon the statement of this 
witness with regard to the extent of furnishings and 
his testimony In this behalf is completely worthless. 

The next witness is Chunl Lai (PW. 32). He is 
respondent No. 3 to the petition and was a candidate 
for the Congress (O). He states that only one meet- 
ing was held in his area of Nabi Karim but he saw 


meetings of respondent No. 1 when passing by the 
places where these meetings were being held. He 
iurther states that in these meetings he used to see 
stages covered by durries and Chandnis; loudspeakers; 
carpets; lights and that the meetings used to be “Shan- 
dar”. Again with regard to the furnishings at these 
meetings, the statement is of the vagues type and it 
is not useful at all for the purpose of arriving at a 
conclusion as to whether the furnishings were more 
than as admitted by respondent No. 1 or as to their 
extent. 

The next witness is Satya Pal Chugh (PW. 34) who 
is another omnibus witness and has political affinity 
with the petitioner as he is a member of the Metropo- 
litan Council from Shakti Nagar-Rahatganj on the 
Jana Sangh ticket. He states that he saw one meeting 
of respondent No. 1 in Nangia Park, Shakti Nagar 
on 23rd, 24th or 25th February, 1971 and two other 
meeting — one at Roshnaara Road and the other in 
Shakti Nagar near Birla Mills. He states that the 
meeting places In all these meetings were very nicely 
decorated; there were flood lights; durries; double mi- 
crophones and his estimate of the number of durries 
for each meeting is 150 or 200. This witness Is so 
vague about the furnishings that he does not talk 
even about a stage. Apart from giving the approxi- 
mate number of durries. his statement cannot be 
helpful in ascertaining the number of lights or any 
other thing that he might have seen in these meet- 
ings. That even the estimate of this witness is exag- 
gerated and vague is amply established by the ques- 
tion in cross examination asking him about the dimen- 
sion of Nangia Park in Shakti Nagar. The witness 
stated that Nangia Park will be about four times the 
length of the Court room and two or three times Its 
width. He again said that the width will be three 
or four times the width of the Court room. When 
asked about the dimensions of the court room, he 
stated that it will be 15 meters in width and 30 meters 
in length whereas in fact, it is about 7 meters in width 
and about 15 meters in length. The testimony of this 
witness is completely useless for the purpose of deter- 
mining the question about the extent of the furnishings 
in the meetings of respondent No. 1 and as to whether 
these furnishing were more than the admitted fur- 
nishings. 

The next witness in G, L. Rawal (PW, 35), who is 
an Advocate of this Court. He states that he at- 
tended two meetings, of respondent No. 1 — one in 
Ahala Kidara Chowk probably on February 23, 1971 
and the other at Idgah on February 28, 1971. As I 
have already held that the Idgah meeting was not a 
meeting of respondent No. 1, it is not necessary to 
take into account the furnishings at this meeting. As 
(o the meeting at Ahata Kidara Chowk, the witness 
states that there was a very big dais made by raising 
15 or 20 Takhats covered by 20 or 25 durries; 100 other 
<)urries; about 3 or 4 loudspeakers; 2 or 3 microphones 
and 15 or 20 one thousand watts bulbs. According to 
my finding, respondent No. 1 did not hold any meet- 
ing at Ahata Kidara Showk on February 23, 1971 or 
any other date. The details of the furnishings, apart 
from being vague, given by this witness, therefore, 
lose all significance and one can only say that the wit- 
ness imagined this meeting and the furnishings there- 
in. His statement does not amount to anything on he 
question that I am examining at present. Apart from 
the fact that the admitted in cross-examination that 
he did not count the Takhats and the durries etc. 
whose number he has given in his examination-in-chief 
which was based upon as estimate, I may only add 
that this witness is also one of the omnibus witnesses 
because he has deposed about other matters which I 
will deal with when I discuss the relevant issues, 

The next witness is Som Dev Arya (PW! 52). He 
also has political affinity with the petitioner as he 
was elected to the Metropolitan Council in the 1987 
elections on the Jana Sangh ticket. He states that 
he saw one meeting of the congress on 1st March, 



^499 


•>Sc. 3(ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINa 29, i8>‘1 


1971 at Ghantaghar, Sabzimandi in which there was 
a stage to accommodate more than 30 people made 
out ot Takhats ; carpets and sheets on the Takhats; 10 
or 12 loudspeakers; lights; 2 microphones and about 
200 or 250 durries. He does not give the details of 
all the furnishings and in his cross-examination he 
admits that the number of durries mentioned by him 
in this meeting is based on estimate, He further 
states that carpets were spread on the stage and 
chanrinis were over the carpets. According to my find- 
ings, the two meetings of respondent No. 1 at Ghanta- 
ghar Subzimandi were on 16th February, 1071 and 
2nd March, 1971. The entire statement of this witness 
in connection with an alleged meeting of respondent 
No. 1 on 1st March, 1971 at Ghantaghar,, Sabzimandi 
would, therefore, he from his imagination and not 
based on tacts. That makes the statement highly Im- 
probable apart from being vague. 

The next witness is Dharam Vir (PW. 56). He hires 
out shamianas; furniture and marriage accessories. 
He is alleged to have seen a meeting of respondent 
No. 1 on 22nd January, 1971 at Chowk Baia Tooti. 
The question of any meeting in January, 1971 does 
not arise and the statement of this witness can only 
be described as imaginary. According to him there 
was a stage at this meeting which was big enough to 
accommodate 25 or 30 persons; about 250 durries; 
e.iandnis; 2 or 3 carpets; 2 or 3 microphones; 7 or 8 
loudspeakers and 30 or 35 big flood lights. According 
to his estimate Ihe stage was made out of 24 or 30 
Takhats. He then gives the rates on which furniture 
was hired out by him but he admits In cross-examina- 
tion that he did not hire out any shamianas, furniture 
etc. to any candidate during these elections. He fur- 
ther admits that the rates given by him are of medium 
class of goods. He then states that the rate given by 
Tandun Tent and Furniture House are low but one 
can charge low rates. Nor can he say whether the 
rales charged are for third class goods which will be 
lower than the rates quoted by him, Ilis testimony 
if. useless for the purpose of assessing whether the 
furnishings at the meetings held by respondent No. 1 
were more than as admitted b.y him. 

Then we have the statements of Police and C.I.D. 
Officers who covered various meetings of respondent 
No. 1. They are Khem Raj Kutt (PW. 1); Umesh 
Chand (PW, 39); Daulat Ram (PW. 42); Jhangi Ram 
(PW. 43); Ram Chander (PW. 44); Sher Singh 
(PW. 45); and Sukhbir Singh (P.W. 46). These wit- 
nesses have not given the extent of the furnishings but 
generally speaking, they have stated that in the meet- 
ings attended by them, there used to be a dais; micro- 
phone; durries; lighting arrangement and loudspeagers 
Some of them have frankly admitted that they do not 
take any particular note of the extent of furnishings 
at such meetings- Their statement* go to support the 
case of respondent No. 1 rather than of the petitioner. 
None of these witnesses talks of any shamianas; chairs; 
carpets: fluorescent, tube.* or the furnishings other than 
the admitted furnishings spoken of bv other witnesses 
of the petitioner. 

Lastly, there is the statement of the petitioner him- 
self. In his statement dated january 25, 1972, he has 
first spoken about the meeting at Pahari Dhiraj on 27th 
February, 1 97 1 and the alleged furnishings therein. 
Inasmuch as I have held that there was no meeting of 
respondent No. 1 at Pahari Dhiraj on 27th February. 
1971, no note car. be taken of the alleged furnisnings 
at this meeting for the purpose of determining the 
question l am dealing with at present. Then he states 
that on his way he must have seen 15 or 20 other 
meetings of respondent No. 1 while talking of Ihe 
various places, he has stated that at some places the 
arrangements were more elaborate than at others- Al- 
though he has attempted to give the size of the stage 
and the number of (lurries; flood lights, loudspeakers 
and microphones, it is not possible to take this evidence 
into consideration to come to a finding that the fur- 
nishings were more than the admitted furnishings 


particularly when the petitioner saw these meetings 
only on his way and admitted in his cross-examination 
on 2nd February, 1972 that what he had stated about 
the furnishings is only his own estimate which In other 
words means speculation. 

In this connection it has been argued by the petitioner 
that the proprietor of Agarwal Tent House of Sami 
Electric Works has not been produced by respondent 
No. 1 and their evidence has not been made available 
to the Court and from this omission a presumption is 
sought to be raised that their bills which have been 
filed by respondent No. 1 with his return of election 
expenses must be false. The argument has only to be 
stated to be rejected. It Is not for respondent No. 1 to 
piove the case of the petitioner in an election petition. 
The burden lies upon the petitioner to prove that there 
has been an excess of expenditure over the prescribed 
limit. No inference can, therefore, be drawn against 
respondent No. 1 for not producing these two persons. 
But even assuming that an inference is to be drawn 
against respondent No. 1 it would lead to nothing be- 
cause the inference ofehnot go to the extent of proving 
that the extent of furnishings was such and such and 
that the expenses thereof were Incurred by respondent 
No. 1. 


Another criticism of the voucher of Saini Electric 
Work s is that a microphone is not mentioned and the 
dates and places of meetings or their number are not 
stated in this voucher (Exhibit R. 27). This voucher, 
as already stated, is a voucher-cum-recipect and it states 
that a sum of Rs. 180/- hag been charged from respon- 
dent No. 1 for loudspeaker and light arrangements. I 
do not think any inference can be drawn against res- 
pondent No. 1 either from the lack of details as to the 
arrangements or as to the places or dates of meetings. 
Th 0 same remarks would apply to the criticism against 
the voucher of Tandan Tent and Furniture House (Ex- 
hibit R. 25) when it is urged that the place and the 
date of meetings have not been mentioned. Then it 
is said that the voucher of Agarwal Tent House is 
according to Subhash Arya (RIW. 35), for small meet- 
ings at the rate of Rsi. 40/- per meetlhg while the com- 
bined vouchers of Tandan Ten t and Furniture House 
and S aim ELectne Works work out to Rs, 30/- per 
meeting for big meeting. As I have alreadv stated, 
the distinction between big and small meetings drawn 
by Arya (RIW. 36) is a distinction without 

vlev f of the statement of Dharam Vir 
( PW. 56) that the rates would vary in accordance with 
the quality of the goods, no significance can be attached 
to the aforesaid difference in rates. 

I, therefore, conclude that the petitioner has failed 
,w r Zf ths furnishings at the meetings of respon- 
dent No 1 were more than the furnishings admitted In 
rten m vouchers of the' suppliers or that respon- 
dent No. l Incurred more expenses in furnishings the 
meetings than admitted by him. ® s me 

Before, I deal with the other specific items of ex- 
pense claimed by the petitioner to have been incurred 
r frim l, ,( h0 / f d by - respondent No. 1 over and above the 
m/’ of th/ r n S ’ r iS ne „ CesSa P t0 state first the plead- 
? f Si® j ar . tles „ and cert ain other matters on the 
record. The date of poll was 5th March. 1971 and after 
counting of votes on 10th March. 1971, result was 
declared late in the night of this date- This petition 
, r ? s on -4th April, 1971. that is. on the 45th day 
'liter the declaration Of th e result which was the last 
The a l ° n according to section 8i of the Act 

The petitioner. therefore, had the maximum 

petition. by ISW f ° r makin <? ou t a case for filing this 

,/ 0 Vrr Ph ?°,° f t! 2 e petitioa allegation is made 

cent No 1 COrrupt P ractice s by resp^n- 

the ™ + his election agent and details of some of 
the corrupt practices are then set out. In clause (a) 
h f paragraph, it i s alleged that respondent No 1 
his election agent (Dr. Roshan Lai RIW 341 and other 
persons with their consent published statements of fact 



45 oo 


lilt GAZETTE OE INDIA: OCTOBER 2 i, 1972/ASV1NA 29, 1894 


[Part h — 


vv Hi eh were false and which these persons believed to 
be false or did not, ebilieve to the true in relation to 
the personal character or conduct oi the petitioner 
which statements were reasonably calculated to preju- 
dice the prospects of the petitioner s election, it it 
then stated that respondent No. 1; Dr. Roshan Lai 
(RIW. 34) and Jai Parkash Goel (respondent No. b) 
and other persons acting with their consent pun tea 
and published a handbill during the election period 
with the caption "Dal Ka Theka Khud ko or vote 
Mange Janta Se”. Then the details of this Handbill 
are given in sub-para (1) “that the petitioner procured 
contract for the supply of pulses to the Army ior his 
brothers and he supplied rotte n pulses to the Army 
personally and thereby wanted to feed the Army wiih 
rotten pulse and the fact was exposed m the Parlia- 
ment in 1970; that the allegation carried the innuendo 
that the petitioner was a cheat and a callous person 
who could stoop so low as to supply rotten stuff io the 
soldiers of the country.” 

Sub-para (2) then states that this handbill was wide- 
ly circulated and distributed throughout the constitu- 
ency over the alleged signatures of "Pupils Council'’ of 
Sadar Bazar Delhi and the said handbill had been 
printed by Sood Litho Press, Delhi. It is averred that 
the “Pupils Council'’ was nothing but a name which 
was invented and adopted by respondent No. 1; his 
election agent and his .other agents and workers who 
acted with the consent of respondent No. 1 in relation 
to this corrupt practice and other corrupt practices 
during the election period. Sood Litho Press; Sham 
Lai who purported to he the Secretary of the soc ailed 
“Pupils Council” and respondent No. 5 were alleged to 
be the ageht s of respondent No. 1 and having acted 
with his consent in relation this corrupt practice. It 
was further averred that apart from getting this hand- 
bill printed and published, respondent No. 1 distributed 
it on a large scale in the constituency during the elec- 
tion days through his workers paid or unpaid and the 
facts stated in this handbill (described as the impugned 
poster) were orally repeated and were also given quite 
wide publicity in public meetings held in the constitu- 
ency during the election period. It is, therefore clear 
that there wag a definite averment that the aforesaid 
handbill had been printed at Sood Litho Press and that 
Sood Litho Press; aforesaid Sham Lai and respondent 
No. 5 were agent s of respondent No. 1 acting with his 
consent. 

Then sub-para (3) states that respondent No. 1 by 
himself and by his agent called the petitioner by ridi- 
culous name “Kanwar Dal Gupta” and gave an appella- 
tion of calling him “Hero of Pulse Scandal” and these 
statements were published in a poster of the size of 
2’x3’ in Devnagari and Persian scripts and this poster 
was also published under the signature of Sham Lai. 

■ Secretary of “Pupils Council” whose phone number 
was given as 226492- Here again, the definite case of 
the petitioner is that this poster was published by 
respondent No. I and or by his agent who, in the con- 
text of the pleas, must mean the aforesaid Sham Lai. 

Paragraph 21 of the petition contain^ the allegation 
that the aforesaid handbill and the poster which had 
been printed at the aforesaid Sood Litho Press Darya- 
ganj Delhi, were pasted at various peaces in the entire 
constituency and conspicuously displayed with a view 
to lower the petitioner in the eyes and estimation of 
the voters and to cause prejudice to the prospects of 
his election. It is averred that the allegations contain- 
ed in both these documents, namely, the handbill 
(annexure ‘A’ to the petition) and the poster (annexure 
‘B’ to the petition) were false and baseless and con- 
tained matter which was not true, could not be true 
and was false to the knowidge of respondent No. 1 and 
his election agent and other persons who acted with 
his consent in the election. 

In paragraph 22. the Detitioner alleges that he served 
a notice on respondent No. 1; respondent No. 5; Sood 
Liiho Press and Sham Lai and with this notice a copy 
of the handbill (Annexure ‘A’ to the petition) was also 


enclosed and to a copy of this notice was sent to the 
Chief Election Commissioner. 

I 

Paragraph 23 states that neither respondent No. 1 nor 
any of the aforesaid persons made any demur to ihe 
notice. This averment is obviously incorrect because, 
admittedly, replies to this notice were sent both by 
respondent No. 1 and respondent No. 5. 

Paragraph 24 alleges that respondent No. 5 was the 
active worker and agent of respondent No. l and also 
acted as hi s counting agent. Meetings which had been 
held to support the candidature of respondent No. i 
were addressed by both of them during the election 
days and the impugned statements were repeated with 
embellishment in public meetings and also orally dur- 
ing the course oi canvassing during the election days- 
It is averred that the petitioner will produce at the 
hearing a tap® record of some of the speeches but it 
may be stated that no such tape record was attempted 
to be produced at the hearing 

The corrupt practice relating to the excess oi expen- 
diture over tha prescribed limit in this paragrapn 
which contains bare averment to that effect. 

Respondent No. 1 filed his written statement on 7 th 
July, 1971. With reference to paragraph 20 of tne 
petition, respondent No 1 denied the alleged statements 
relating to the personal character or conduct of the 
petitioner and pleaded that the other question oi the 
said statements being false and believed to be false, 
or not believed to be true or being statements reason- 
ably calculated to prejudice the petitioner’s election 
did not arise. The alleged circulation and distribution 
of the said handbill was denied and the alleged inven- 
tion and adoption by respondent No. 1, his election 
agent, his other agents or workers who acted with his 
consent of the name “People’s Council” wa s denied- 
Respondent No. 1 further denied that the Sood Litho 
Pres s or any Sham Lai or Jai Parkash Goel (respon- 
dent No. 5) were hi s agents or acted with his consent. 
Respondent No. 1 denied knowing any such Sham Lai 
It was reasserted that respondent No. i did not get the 
said handbill printed or published or distributed or 
having repeated the statement therein orally. Respon- 
dent No. 1 further denied having seen the said hand- 
bill and asserted that a reply to the notice had been 
given, it was pleaded that the statement in the said 
handbill did not fall within the mischief of section 
123(4) of the Act as it showed that the petitioner, in 
his capacity as a Member of Parliament, got contracts 
to hi s brothers for supply of pulses to the Defence 
Forces and tried to supply rotten pulses for consump- 
tion by soldiers: that the matter was exposed in 
Parliament in 1970 and an appeal was made to the 
voters not to re-elect such a person and, therefore, 
the said handbill canntjt b e said to contain statements 
of fact which are false and which the maker either 
believed to be false or did not believe to be true. These 
statements were not, under any circumstance?, in 
relation to the personal character o r conduct of the 
petitioner but dealt with his conduct as a member of 
Parliament which position he allegedly misused- Res- 
pondent No. 1 further denied that he or his agents had 
called the petitioner by the ridiculous name of “Kanwar 
Dal Gupta” or gav e him an appellation of “Hero Pulse 
Scandal” or published a poster 2’x3’ in Devanagari 
script or Persian script. Respondent No. I denied the 
publication of such a poster during the election days 
and averred that the poster (annexure ‘B’ to the peti- 
tion) had been brought into existence by the petiofier 
after the election for the purpose of this petition. 

With regard to the allegations in paragraph 21 of the 
petition, respondent No. 1 pleaded that no particulars 
of the pasting or diplay of the alleged posters had 
b-en given. However, the pastihg or display of the 
alleged poster by respondent No. 1. hi s election agent 
or am- other person with his consent was denied As 
a proposition of law it was submitted that this poster 
does not contain statements of fact relating to the 



S5c. "(ii) J 


THH GAZETTE 01' INDIA: OClOliER 21, 1972/AWINA 29, ' go. 


personal character or conduct of the petitioner reason- 
ably calculated to prejudice the prospects ot the peti- 
tioner’s election. 

With regard to the allegations in paragraph 22 and 
23 of the petition, respondent No. l admitted service 
of the notice dated February, 25, 1971 upon himself 
together with a copy of the aforesaid handbill (anne- 
xure 'A' to the petition). The allegations in the notice 
were stated to have been repudiated by replying lo 1 in- 
said notice. 

In reply to paragraph 24 of the petition, respon- 
dent No. 1 denied that Jai Parkash Goel (respondent 
No. 5) was his active worker, agent or a counting 
agent. Complaint was made with regard to the la~k 
of particulars In relation to the meetings alleged to 
have been addressed by respondent No. 5. It was 
denied that he and respondent No. 5 used to be common 
speakers in election meetings held in the constituency 
during the election days. Complaint was again made 
about the non-speclflcation of the statements "alleged to 
have been made at the meetings and the non-produc- 
tion of the transcript of the alleged tape record. 

The allegation in paragraph 25 of the petition that 
respondent No. 1 had excesded the prescribed limii 
of expenses was denied: particulars of the al'eged 
expenditure or over Rs. 5 lacs were called for and 
it was averred that respondent No. 1 had loged true, 
full and correct account of expenditure as required 
by law. 

Replication to the written statement of respondent 
No. 1 was filed on July 15 , 1971 b.v the petitioner. 
With regard to paragraph 20 of the written state- 
ment, the statements made In the petition were re- 
iterated. It was averred that Sham Lai, Mantri 
(Secretary), People’s Council, Sadar, was a Congress 
worker and actively worked lor respondent No. 1. 
Then the case made out in the petition was improved 
by stating: — 

‘■Respondent No. 1 has been responsible not only 
for the publication and drcu’ation of An- 
nexure ‘A’ and ‘B’ he has also heeti responsi- 
ble for the publication and circulation of 
many other handbills and posters amounting 
to the corrupt practices. Such handbills are 
An nexuses A. (3. A 2. A. 3, A. 4 and A.5”. 

These annexures which are manuscripts or handbills 
were Hied with the replication and it is averred that 
these handbills were also got printed from Sood Litho 
Press and that there had been a systematic programme 
of maligning' the petitioner and lo issue the circulars 
tu achieve the same object ns was achieved by th° 
publication and circulation of annexure s ‘A’ and 'B'. 

It was averred that the denial of respondent. No. 1 
about knowing Sham Lai was believed by the report, 
lodged by Sham T,al with the police on 19th February 
1971 in Police Station Sadar Bazar against KewaJ Ram, 
nephew of the petlitoner, where it was stated that 
Sham Lai was a Congress worker and was doing elec- 
tion propaganda for the Congress candidate In Mandi 
Rui which forms a pait of the Sadar Parliamentary 
Constituency. With regard to respondent No. 5 It 
was asserted that he had been giving out the sub je jet 
matter of the handbill annexures ‘A’ and the poster 
annexure ‘B’ to the petition in his speeches in the 
meetings asking the voters not to vote for the peti- 
tioner and that respondent No. I used to he present 
and delivered similar speeches In similar tones In 
such meetings. Then the petitioner has given eight 
dates between 12th February 1971 and 2nd March 
1971 in Police Station, Sadar Bazar against Kewal Ram, 
The rep’y to the notice was admitted to have been 
received by the petitioner on March 13 , 1971 , and 
it” was averred that It had been posted after respond- 
ent No. 1 had been declared elected and that he did 
not disown his liability or responsibility for the publi- 
-atten nr circulation of the impugned handbills and 
posters uni il he was declared elected. Tt was averted 


45° i 


that the handbill contained .statements of fact which 
were false and which were either believed to he false 
or not oelieved to be true by respondent No. 1 and 
that thusc statement, related to the personal character 
or conduct of the petitioner and not to his conduct 
as a member of Parliament. The bringing out of the 
poster (aunoxure ‘B’ to the petition) into existence 
after the declaration of the result was denied. 

Tiie correctness of the pleas raised by respondent 
No. 1 in paragraph 21 of the written statement was 
denied and in reply to paragraphs 22 and 23 of the 
written statement it was asserted that respondent 
No. 1 had sent a reply to the notice only after the 
declaration of the result. Here again, the pleadings 
were imp"oved because in the petition were was a 
denial of any reply to the notice. 

With reference to paragraph 24 ol 1 the written 
statement, the petitioner reasserted that Jai Parkash 
Goel (respondent No. 5) was the active worker, agent 
or counting agent of respondent No. 1. The other 
denials in paragraph 24 of the written statements 
were stated to "be false and wrong. 

With regal'd to paragraphs 25 and 26 of the written 
statement, It was reasserted that respondent No. 1 
had spent more than Rs. 5 lacs and the details of this 
expense were not necessary In law. Then, with re- 
gnrd to the receipts and vouchers filed by respondent 
No. 1 with his return of election expenses specific 
objections are taken as to the infirmities therein 
which arc not necessary to be set out. 

It is, therefore, clear that the petitioner came out 
with the case that both respondent No. 5 and Sham 
i.al were agents of respondent No. 1 oarticu'orly in 
connection with the printing and publication of the 
handbill (annexure ‘A’) and the poster (annexure 
•B'l which were alleged to have been got printed 
from Sood Litho Press. 

Then as a result of my order dated August 6, 1971, 
the petitioner filed better particulars on August, 19, 
1971; and there is justification in the criticism on 
behalf of respondent No. 1 that the petitioner fried lo 
improve his position with regard to the allegations 
in paragraphs 20 to 24 of the petition and the repli- 
cation. Instead of confining himself to the Sood 
Litho Press, it was stated the particulars that the 
handbill (annexure ‘A’) had been printed on '’3rd 
February 1971 and 24th February 1971 through Sood 
Litho Press and also from Sarvdeshik Prakashan Ltd. 
^-rmigh Sood Litho Press and also from other pi esses 
through Sood Litho Press under the press-fine of Sood 
Litho Press. But the persons who got this handbill 
printed and published by Sood Litho Press remained 
the same, numely, respondent No. 1: Dr. Roshan Lai: 
Sham Lai and respondent No. 5. Its publication was 
alleged also lo have been done b.v H other persons 
out of whom only two need be mentioned, namely. 
Lila Ram of Nai Basli, Ramnagar, Delhi, and Chiman 
Lai c/o Bajaj Cloth House, Azad Market, Pul Ban- 
gush, Delhi. 

There was a further improvement in the petitioner’s 
rase when he filed his list of reliance on October 7, 
1971, In this list of reliance, he mentioned, in addi- 
tion to the account books of Sood Litho Press and 
Sarvdeshik Prakashan Ltd., the account books of Uni- 
versal Press, Gulshan Art Press; Chltra Art Press and 
Jai Printing Press to show that annexure ‘A’ and 'B’ 
to the petition were got printed at these presses also. 

It is In the background of the aforesaid facts that 
the various items of expense which are alleged by the 
petitioner to have been incurred or authorised by 
respondent No. 1 over and above the admitted items 
will have to be examined. 

I will first deal with the alleged expenses relating 
to the printing of the handblills annexures A. 2 lo 



45°2 


THH GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


LP.mu M — 


A.6 and other Hied with the replication. An Uem of 
Rs. 525/- is claimed by the petitioner under this head. 
These are the handbills which were hied by the peti- 
tioner with his replication, These case of respondent 
No. 1 is that he did not get any handbiTs like the 
handbills A.2 to A.6 printed. To prove this item, 
the petitioner first produced Batau Ram Sharma (P.W, 
11 J. He is an employee in the Servdeshik Press in 
Pntaudi House, Daryaganj, Delhi, since 1.948, This 
press is owned by Sarvdeshik Prakashan Lid. which 
is a limited company, It is not disputed that Sood 
Lilho Press has also its press In the same Potaudi 
House building. This witness was examined on Dec- 
ember 22, 1971 i.e., about 5 months after the tiling 
of the replication and 3 months after the filing of the 
list of re'iance. He stated that on 22nd February 
1971. Krishan Avtar Aggarwal, propriclar of Sood 
Litho Press, came to Sarvdeshik Press in Ihe company 
of respondent No. 1 respondent No. 5 and Tauflq 
Farooqi (P.W. 2), Manager of Sood Litho Press, to 
get some work done. These persons wanted nine 
pamphlets, drafts of which they had brought, to be 
pri Red. The witness then produced the draft pam- 
phlets. (Exhibit P.W. 11/1 to Exhibit P.W. 1 i/8). 
Some of these pamphlets have certain notings thereon 
which were identified by this witness to be those of 
Krishan Avtar Aggarwal and Tauflq Farooqi (P.W. 
2). This withess stated tnat these haul' fills. five of 
which corresponded to the handbills A.2 to A.6 (filed 
with the replication) were printed at his press for 
which bill No. 8991 dated 24th February .1971 was 
made. Copy of the bill is Exhibit PW 11/9 and It is 
for Rs. 525. He stated that the bill was only for 
printing and not for the paper utilised. This bill is 
made out not in the name of re me oiont No. 1 hue 
in the name of Sood Litho Pre--. The copy of this 
bill in the bill book produced bv this wtmess bears 
an endorsement of payment on 26lh February 1971 
which is stated to be carried to the cash book. The 
witness further states that the prinlmc of these n'ne 
pamphlets wa s started in the night of 22pd February 
1971 and continued till the n gilt of 24th February 
1971: altogether 31,000 pamphlets were printed out of 
which 12,000 were printed In the night of 22nd Feb- 
ruary 1971; 10,000 during the day of 23rd February 
1971 and 9,000 during the day i.f 24lh February ; --7I 
and respondent No. 1 took delivery of whatever had 
been printed on 23rd Febiuary 107 1 respondent No. 

5 took delivery of some of 4 ' e p-inphirls in the even- 
ing of 23rd February 1971 and the balance was deli- 
vered on 24th February 1971. It appears from the 
proofs of the pamphlet Exhibit P.W. 11/3 that Ihe 
press line printed was of Sarvdesh.k Press but it l-i 
alleged to have been struck Cl by Chhatter Sain 
(P.W. 55) who substituted the name of Sood Litho 
Press. This witness also produced his works Regis- 
ter which was later on exhidert as Exhibit P.W 
55/5 during the examination of Chatter Sain (P.W. 
55), This ’ witness also produced the cash book of 
this press for the period 13th April 1969 to 12th April 
1971 and stated that payment of the bill No. 8961 
(Exhibit P.W. 11/9) Is entered in the cash book at 
page 135 on 26th February 1971. He admitted to 
maintaining the amounts of this press and making 
■<hls entry. Copy of the entries li the cash book on 
26th February 1971 prenaicn bv this witness is Exhibit 
P.W. 11/11 and the cash hook Itself was later exhi- 
bited as Exhibit P.W. 55/6 through Chatter Sain 
(P.W. 55). The witness also produced the ledger of 
the press for ihe period 13th April 1970 to 12th April 
1971 and stated that the payment of the hill Is record- 
ed at page 21 in the C-hhapi account. Copy of these 
entrie s is Exhibit P.W. 11/12 and the ledger was 
later "marked as Exhibit F.W. 55/1 through Chatter 
Sain FPW. 55). This witness admitted having made 
the entries in the ledger also- In cross-examination 
bv respondent No. 1, the witrtsi denied knowing the 
Directors of the aforesaid company other than Shri 
Krishan, Director in eha.ge. although this witness 
himself had filed the list of Directors of this company 
with the Registrar of Companies on 4th January 1972. 
This list is Exhibit K.7. Ai though the Sood litho 


Press have a ledger account v-.ith the press of this 
witness at page 139; the entry with regard to bill 
No, 8991 (Exhibit P.W. lli9) L not made in tlm 
ledger account of Sood Litn.j Press as It ought lo 
have been made on 24 lb February 1971 but in Ihe 
account entitled "Chhupai Account”, on 26th February 
1971. The cross-examination v, as directed to alleged 
interpolations in the entire., in the ledger (Exhibit 
P.W. 55/1) and the Works Register (Exhibit P.W. 
55/ 1). The witness admitted that the figure T’ In 
the tigu :es '8991’ in the Chh.mai Account’ had been 
over-written and so were ihe figures ‘52’ In the amount 
‘52 5’ against this bill. Tie denied the suggestion that 
the figures ‘8991’ had been substituted fur the figure 
‘5988' but he admitted that the entry relating to bill 
No. Ko88 was between the twe lines on the ledger page 
mid not on the line itself like other entries. He 
denied the suggestion that the original entry against 
bill No. 8991 was for Rs. 45 and that ‘4’ had been 
substituted by ‘2’ and the figure of ‘5’ had been added 
before it. He admitted that on 24th February 1971, 
there was another entry with regard to a bill bearing 
No. 8991 tor Rs. 6. Although the press maintained 
a rrreipt book, he staled that ne had not issued any 
receipt in respect of bill No. 8991 when payment was 
made on 26th February 19 (1 as, according to him, 
receipts were issued only when the customer wanted 
it. This excuse appears to be a patent excuse of other 
witnesses of the petitioner who have sought to prove 
other items, which are dealt wth later, the liability 
for which is sought to be fastened on respondent 
No. 1 . He admitted that the payment regarding hill 
No. 8991 was not entered in the receipt book. On this 
question it is only necessaiy to mention one other 
fact deposed to by this witness that he had not men- 
tioned to anybody the fact that the pamphlets refer- 
red to by him had been printed i:y his press for Sood 
Litho Press nor had he nentioned to anybody about 
the facts stated by him in Court. 


Serious challenge was, therefore thrown on the 
genuneness of the copy of the bill Exhibit P.W. 11/9 
and the entries relating inereto m the ledger (ExMbit 
P.W. 55/5). This witness was rot able to explain 
fully the discrepancies, and the over- writings. To 
meet this difficulty, the petitioner produced Chatter 
Sain (P.W. 55). He states that in 1951 he became the 
Honorary In charge (PrabalidhaKl of the Sarvdeshik 
Press and the declaration ol this press was made in 
his name in 1951. He remained in charge of this 
press till 1962 but the declaration In his name 
continued. He admitted that he was a Director of 
the Sarvdeshik Prakashan Limited which owns this 
press. He stated that the press kept two book3, 
namely, cash book and the journal book. Then he 
amplified his statement by stating that the press main- 
tained a ledger in addition and stated that the journal 
book pertains to the credit transactions and the ledger 
contains entried both of the cash transactions entered 
in the journal book (Exhibit PW.55/2). He explained 
that the entry dated 24th February, 1971 of Rs. 6/- in 
the ledger at page 21 relating to bill No. 8991 had 
been carried from journal book page 112 in respect of 
bill No. 8991 but in the journal book the bill mentioned 
in 8845. He also produced another bill book (exhibit 
P.W. 55/3) relating to the aforesaid amount of Rs- 6 
for bill No. 8845 (Exhibit P.W. 55/3-A) dated 24th 
February, 1971 made out in the name of Arya Mitter 
Mandal, Daryaganj, Delhi, for Rs. 26/- out of which 
Rs. 20 were for the cost of 200 post cards alleged to 
have been purchased for Arya Mitter Mandal. He 
then connected the entry relating to t'nese cards with 
page 36 of the ledger (Exhibit PW 55/1) pertaining 
to Arya Mitter Mandal and stated that the total amount 
of the bill had been entered in the ledger at page 176 
under date 24th February, 1971 in the ledger account 
of Arya Mitter Mandal, He admitted that at page 21 
of the ledger containing the 'Chhupai Account’, the 
bill No. 8845 had been wrongly entered as 8991. He 
then proa need the receipt book of the press for the 



SX. 3(ii)J 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVIN.4 "’9, ISy-t 


45°3 


period 22nd June, 1970 to 31st March, 1971 (Exhibit 
PW. 55/4) and stated that receipts tor cash payments 
were issued only when the customers wanted them but 
otherwise the cash payments were endorsed on the 
bill itself. This part ot the statement of this witness 
which corroborates the statement of Babu Ram Sharma 
(P.W. 11) \vas legitimately criticised on the ground that 
the press being owned by a limited company and 
admittedly maintaining receipt books, it was incon- 
cevable that they will not issue receipts for every 
ade to them. He then confirmed 
ment of Babu Ram Sharma (P.W. 11) that they had 
received printing work from Sood Litho Press in res- 
pect of nine pamphlets (Exhibit PW. 11/1 to Exhibit 
P.W. li/8) and stated that he did proof reading of 
Exhibit P.W, 11/3; Exhibit PW. 11/4 and Exhibit PW. 
11 /ti which bore his markings. He further stated that 
42 reams of paper were consumed in printing 31,000 
pamphlets like A. 2 to A. 6 and that the paper had 
been supplied by Sood Litho Press. It appears from 
the cross-examination of this witness that he did noi 
getting any salary from the press or from the Saiv- 
deshik Arya Pratinidhi Sabha Although he does not 
work in the press or keep its books, he was produced 
to reconsile various enteried therein. H.e admitted 
that Ram Gopal Shalwala, who contested elections to 
Parliament on the Jana Sangh Symbol, in 1067, was 
the Secretary of the Sarvdeshik Arya Pratinidhi Sabha 
and that he contested the 1971 elections of Parliament 
also on the Jan Sangh symbol but lost to the Congress 
candidate. He admitted that Ram Gonal Shalwala 
and, amongst other, Mr. S. N. Marwaba, Advocate for 
the petitioner, were Directors of the Sarvdeshik Pra- 
kashan Limited which owns the press and that Mr. 
Marwaha is also a Treasurer of the Sarvdeshik Arya 
Pratinidhi Sabha since June. 1971. He denied sugges- 
tions in cross-examination that any manipulations had 
been done with respect to the bill No. 8991 (Exhibit 
PW. 11/9). It js not necessary to respect any more 
of what this witness has said and I would like to give 
mv own Impressions of the documents which pertain 
to this bill No. 8991 (Exhibit PW. 11/9) for Rs. 525/-. 


The first point to be noticed is that although the 
bill is made out in the name of Sood Litho Press which 
admittedly has ledger account with the Sarvdeshik 
Press and which was paid on 26th February, 1971, 
the bill is not debited to the ledger account of Sood 
Litho Press on 24th February, 1971 hut is entered in 
the ‘Chhapai Account’. In the ‘Chhapai account’ which 
is at page 21 of the ledger. (Exhibit PW. 55/1) there 
is a clear entry under date 24th February, 1971 relating 
to bill No. 8991 for Rs. 6 which is stated to have 
been brought in from journal page 112. Lower down 
on this page, against the date 26th February. 1971, 
therefore is another entry relating to bill No. 8991 
for Rs. 525/- which is stated to have been brought 
from cash book page 135. I find from my visual obser- 
vation contrary to what the aforesaid two witnesses 
have stated that the over-writing of the figure ‘T in 
the bill No. 8991 against 26th February, 1971 is clearly 
in a different ink than the ink of the figures ‘899’. 
Further the figures ‘52’ are definitely in a different, ink 


than the last figure of ‘5’ in the amount Rs. 525/- and 
the flgure‘2’ appears to have been over-written over 
another figure which looks like ‘4’, Then under the 
same date 26th February. 1971. another bill No. 8988 
for Rs. 45/- has been interposed between the two 
n’-inted lines on this page and the ink which this entry 
has been written appears to be more similar to the 
ink of the over-written figure T and the over-written 
figure ‘52’ than with the ink of the other figures and 
entries. Then in the Works Rcgistef- (Exhibit PW. 
55/51 at paee 33 wherever there Is an entry regarding 
bill Exhibit PW. 11/9, there is over-writing of the 
figure ‘1’ in the figures ‘8991’ and there is an entry 
on this page relating to bill No. 8991 for 209 post-rards 
for Arva Mitter Mandal. I have already mentioned 
that even though the press maintains receipts bocks, 
there Is no receipt for Rs 525/- against the bill No 


8991 dated 24th February, 1971. 


At this stage. I would like to state what I consider 
to be tne correct approach to determine whether the 
returned candidate has incurred or authorised a parti- 
cular item of expense. In some instances in this case 
alleged suppliers have merely produced copies of then 
bill books unsupported by any other accounts. In 
others, they have produced copies of their bill books sup- 
ported either by a cash book or a cash books and ledger. 
If the particular item of expense is denied by the 
returned candidate, the burden to be, discharged by 
the petitioner in an election petition will bo the same 
as the burden upon the alleged supplier if he were 
to file a suit for recovery of money for that item. It 
is true that books of account regularly maintained in 
Lhc course of business arc admissible as relevant pieces 
of evidence but by themselves they arc not sufficient 
to charge any person with liability. To be books kept 
m the regular course of business, particularly a cash 
book, it is necessary to show that daily balances were 
struck in the cash hook and carried over to the next 
day. Even in an action by the supplier the sort of 
evidence which has been led by the petitioner in this 
case to prove particular items of expense against the 
returned candidate will not be enough for a decree to 
be passed against the returned candidate particularly 
in the face of hi R clear and categoric denial. 

As already stated, the evidence of Babu Ram Sharma 
(P.W. 11) is that respondent No. 1 had come to his 
press accompanied by Krishan Avtar Aggarwal, prop- 
rietor of Sood Litho Press; Taufeeq Farooqi (P.W. 2) 
and respondent No. 5 Taufeeq Farooqi (P.W. 2) waJ 
not put any question by the petitioner when he was 
examined in Court with regard to the alleged print- 
ing of Exhibit PW. 11/1 to Exhibit PW. 11/8 Krishan 
Avtar Aggarwal has not been produced and the sugges- 
tion by the petitioner in his statement that Krishan 
Avtar Aggarwal is related to respondent No. 5, apart 
from not having been proved, is not sufficient justifi- 
cation for not producing Krishan Avtar Aggarwal. Res- 
pondent No. 1 has denied going to Sarvdeshik press 
for gettjne these pamphlets printed or for anv other 
purpose. Respondent No. 5 has also denied this. He 
has also denied his alleged writings on some of the 
draft pamphlets. 

It may also be mentioned that in his statement on 
3rd February. 1971. the petitioner stated that pamph- 
lets A.2 to A.6 which are some of the pamphlets out 
of the pamphlets Exhibits PW. 11/1 to Exhibits PW. 
11/8 were got published sometime near about 23rd 
of 24th February. 1971 and in his statement dated 
25th January, 1972, he has stated while talking about 
annexure ‘A’ before going to his counsel to serve a 
notice, that some of his other workers had also met 
him and had shown him other handbills which had 
been issued against him. Since there are not other 
pamphlets produced by the petitioner, it would be a 
legitimate inference that he was referring to the pam- 
phlets Exhibit PW. 11/1 to Exhibit PW. 11/8. If so, 
it is suprising that when he served notice upon res- 
pondent No. 1 and respondent No. 5 through his 
counsel Lala Ram Gupta (PW. 4), on 25th February, 
1971, he did not mention the pamphlets Exhibits PW. 
11/1 to Exhibit PW 1 108. Therefore, the argument of 
resnnndent No. 1 that pamphlets Exhibit PW. II fl 
to Exhibit PW. 11/8 had been brought into existence 
inter for the purpose of this petition cannot be said 
to be unjustified particularly in view of the fact that 
some of these pamphlets were produced only with the 
reoiiration. 

Taking all these facts into consideration I am of 
the view that the entries in the ledger and Works 
Register of this press are .extremely suspicious and 
unreliable and cannot go to support the bill No. 3991 
(Exhibit PW. 11/9) in the name of Sood Litho Press 
or to connect he oamnhlets Exhibit PW. 31/1 to Exhibit 
PW 11/8 with the Sood Litho Press and much less 
with respondent No. 1. The netitioner has, therefore, 
failed to prove that respondent No 1 incurred or 



lPakt l - 


4.' 04 


HIE GAZETTE OE INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASV1NA 29, 1894 


authorised the expenditure of Its. 520/- with regard 
to che alleged pamphlets. 


Connected with this item is a claim made in respect 
of a sum of Es. 3,220/- being the alleged cost of paper 
which would be required for printing the aforesaid 
pamphlets as also the pamphlet annexure A.13, also 
filed with the replication. Babu Ram Sharma (PW. 
11) has not stated catergoricaliy that the paper was 
supplied by respondent No. 1 but he has stated that 
the charges in the bill Exhibit PW. 11/9 for Rs. 525/- 
were only for printing suggesting that the paper was 
supplied by or on behalf of respondent No. 1. He has 
then stated that 62 reams were utilized for printing 
the pamphlets Exhibit PW. 1 1/1 to Exhibit PW. 11/8 
and he has further staled that four reams were uti- 
lized for printing pamphlets like A.13. Chatter Sain 
(P.W. 56) has not wholly confirmed this statement 
because in his evidence on 21st January, L971, he has 
stated that 62 reams were consumed in printing 31,00 0 
pamphlets like A. 2 to A. b\ that is, only 5 out of the 
9 pamphlets. The cost ol paper is alleged to be at 
the rate of Rs. 50/- per ream for the paper alleged 
to have been utilized for Exhibit PW. 11/1 to Exhibit 
PW. 11/8 and at the rate of Rs. 30/- per ream for the 
pamphlet A.13. No independent evidence has been 
adduced to prove the sourse of this paper or to esta- 
blish that this paper was purchased or supplied by or 
on behalf of respondent No. 1. Since the entire story 
relating to the printing of the pamphlets Exhibit PW. 
11/1 to Exhibit PW. 11/8 has been held by me to be 
suspicious and unreliable, this item of alleged expense 
over and above the ommitted expense must also be 
held to have been not proved. 


The next item is of Rs. 920.40 being the cost of 25 
reams of paper alleged to have been purchased by 
respondent No. 1 from Om Parkash Sachdeva (PW. 21). 
Connected with it is another item of Rs. 062/- for 
printing of this paper alleged to have been done by 
ICrishan Lai (PW. 41) of Gulshan Art Press. He filed 
his bill Exhibit PW. 41/1 dated 22nd February, 1971 
for Rs 302/-. for printing the life sketch of respon- 
dent No 1 and bill Exhibit PW, 41/2 dated 26th Feb- 
ruary, 1971 for Rs. 300/- for printing Mrs. Indira 
Gandhi’s appeal for respondent No. 1. Om Parkash 
Sachdeva (PW. 21) has already been disbelieved by 
me in connection with an alleged meeting at Roshanara 
Road on 19th February, 1971 of respondent No. 1. I 
may only repeat that it was only in the cross-exami- 
nation that he disclosed that he was President of the 
Jana Sangha Mandal, Rahatganj, for the last 3 years 
during which he had been u member of the Jana 
Sangha. With regard to this paper, he produced his 
cash memo, book containing copy of the cash memo. \ 
No 3777 dated 22nd February, 1971 (Exhibit PW. 21/1) 
for Rs. 920.40 being the cost of 25 reams of paper of 
the size of 20 inch, x 30 inch, to the extent of Rs. 885/- 
plus Rs 35.40 for sale-tax. This copy of cash memo 
is not easy to decipher. The witness has stated that 
the name of respondent No. 1 appears orythe copy of 
this cash memo. He has further stated that respon- 
dent No 1, accompanied by another person, whose 
name he does not know had personally come to his 
shop and had purchased this paper which was des- 
patched bv him to Gulshan Art Press upon a The (a 
called bv him under the instructions of respondent No, 

1 but nri representative of respondent No. ,1 1 has accom- 
panied the paper to the Press. He admitted that ho 
gets an acknowledgement of delivery from the person 
to whom the goods are delivered and these acknow- 
ledgements are tagged by him Then he states that 
cash sales are entered in the cash book which he had 
brought to the Court and this sale was entered at 
page No. 89 (Exhibit PW. 21/2) in the current cash 
book, He admitted in cross-examination that the cash 
book does not mention the name of respondent No. 1 
against cash memo. No. 3777 but that is not unusuaL 
It was suggested to him that the name which appeared 
orMnallv on this cash memo had been rubbed off 
and the name of respondent No, 1 had been substi- 
tuted hut he denied the suggestion. He, however. 


admitted that in the cash, memo, book which he pro- 
duced there were cash memo, on which the name of 
the customer did not appear. He states that payment 
was made to him in cash by respondent No. 1 but 
he was not able to produce any writing of respondent 
No. 1 with regard to the purchase of this paper nor 
did he produce the delivery receipt which he must 
have obtained from the person to whom the paper 
was delivered. With regard to the claim made by 
this witness, my remarks relating to the approach to 
such matters made earlier fully apply because in view 
of the denial of respondent No. 1 about the purchase 
of this paper, the oral testimony of this witness even 
coupled with the entry in the cash book is not suffi- 
cient to charge respondent No. 1 with iiubility parti- 
cularly when the delivery receipt which must have 
been produced. This witness also gave the same away 
bv the Iasi, sentence in his cross-examination by stat- 
ing that he had not mentioned about the sale of tills 
paper or about any other thing to any other person 
till Ihc say he made the statement in Court on 3rd 
January. 1972. How then did the petitioner produce 
this witness to depose about the sale of paper and to 
bring with him copy of the cash memo, and his cash 
book allegedly relating to this transaction? 

The connected item of Rs. 662/- for printing is de- 
posed to by Krishan Lai (PW, 41), proprietor of Gui- 
shan Art Poess, who ha-, produced the aforesaid bill- 
Hr states that he had printed a life sketch of respon- 
dent No. 1 and Mrs. Indira Gandhi's appeal for the 
former during the election for which purpose respon- 
dent No. 1 had come to him. On getting the order 
from respondent No. 1 this witness states that he asked 
respondent No. 1 to send the paper which was supplied 
to him on 20th February, 1971 having been brought 
by a Thelewala from Sadar Bazar. He further states 
that he had given an acknowledgement to the Thele- 
wala of having received 27 reams of paper According 
to this witness therefore, he received 27 reams of 
paper which had been brought him by the Thelewala 
whereas according to Om Parkash Sachdeva (PW. 21) 
only 25 reams of paper had been purchased by res- 
pondent No, 1 and despatched to the press of this 
witness. There is no explanation by this witness as 
to who had supplied the additional two reams of paper. 
This fact throws great deal of doubt upon the afore- 
said two bills Exhibits PW. 41 / 1 and PW, 41/2 as 
appertaining to respondent No. 1 This witness has 
not produced any books of account in support of these 
bills and admits that they are copies of the bills jn 
the bill book produced by him. These two bills men- 
Ron the name of respondent No. 1 but there is no 
wrilten order placed by him with this witness. His 
explanation is the usual one that the name of every 
partv is mentioned in thp bill unless he is told by the 
mrtv not. to mention the name. To say the least, it 
is susprising that respondent No. 1 did not give these 
instructions to this witness if he had really wanted to 
suppress his name as being the person at those instance 
any printing work was done by this witness. This 
witness has further stated that respondent No. 1 was 
accompanied by Snrdar Basset Singh (R1W. 13) when 
he came to place the order and by Tirath Ram (RTW. 
30) when be came to take delivery of the printed 
matter. Respondent No. 1; Basant Singh 1RIW. 13) 
and Tirath Ram (RTW. 30) have all denied having 
gene to the printing press of this witness. 

T may here mention section 127A of the Act which 
contains restrictions on the printing of pamphlets, 
posters, etc. This section, inter alia requires a decla- 
ration as to the indentity of the publisher thereof signed 
bv him and attested by two persons and the despatch 
of a copv of the printed matter to the Chief Electoral 
Officer, This witness admits that he neither obtained 
any declaration from respondent No. 1 nor did he send 
a copy of the printed matter to the Returning Officer, 

A suggestion was made that he was a partner of 
Manohat Ted Kumar, a Jana Sangh Councillor, hut 
the sugees'inn was denied. However, the witness 
admitted that in 1904, he, Manohar Lai Kumar and 



Jy5c. 3(h)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ AoVlNA 29, IS9t 45O5 


iwo other persons had jointly purchased land for buil- 
ding a market. It cannot, therefore, be said that the 
witness ig completely disinterested in the petitioner 
or in the Jana Sangh. The witness also admitted 
that the bills in the bill book which he produced had 
been prepared by his Manager, Manohar Lai, but 
Manohar Eai has not been produced. Taking an over- 
all view of the testimony of Om Parkash Sachdeva 
(P.W. 21) and Krishan Lai (PW. 41), I am of the 
opinion that the petitioner has failed to establish or 
prove the incurring or authorisation by respondent 
No. 1 of the aforesaid two items of Rs. 920.40 and Rs. 
662. No significance can be attached to the fact that 
respondent No. 1 has admitted that he got his life 
sketch and Mrs. Indira Gandhi’s appeal printed. Acc- 
ording to respondent No. 1, these were printed only by 
Veerendra Printers. The petitioner argues that in 
face of the said admission, it should be held that res- 
pondent No. 1 had got these two things printed also 
from Krishan Lai (P.W. 41) on the paper purchased 
from Om Parkash Sachadeva (PW. 41). In view of 
the fact that no connection between respondent No. 1 
and the purchase of paper from Om Parkash Sachdeva 
'PW. 21) or the printing thereon from Krishan Lai 
(PW. 41) has been established, this argument cannot 
be accepted. 


The next item of additional expense claimed by the 
petitioner is of Rs. 1142.50 for furniture alleged to have 
been supplied by Parmodh Kumar (PW. 15) through 
his bills Exhibit PW. 15/1-A; Exhibit PW. 15/1-B ana 
Exhibit PW. 15/1-C. The testimony of this witness 
has already been rejected by me while discussing the 
question of aditional , furniture alleged to have 
been supplied for the meetings of respondent No. 1. 
Nothing more need be said about this item which 1 
hold disproved so as to charge respondent No. 1 witn 
having incurred or authorised this expenses. 


Then I come to the item of Rs. 609.50 for painting 
of banners from Prem Chand Grover (PW.51) plus a 
sum of Rs. 277.50 being the price of cloth used for 
these banners Respondent No. 1 has returned an 
expense of Rs. - 112 for 14 cloth banners through this 
very witness vide hill Exhibit It. 13. Prem Chand 
Grover (PW.51) has stated that during the elections 
of 1971 he made cloth banners for several parties 
like the Congress and the Jana Sangh and other inde- 
pendent candidates. He maintains a cash book, a bill 
book and a ledger. He produced his bill book which 
contained copies of the following three bills: — 

(1) Bill No. 905 (Exhibit PW.51/3) dated 15th 

February 1971 is for Rs. 112 for 14 (1341) 

banners. This is the admitted bill which does 
not contain the name of respondent No. 1. 

(2) Bill No. 907 (Exhibit PW. 51/2) dated 16th 
February 1971 is for painting of all banners 
for Rs. 220. This bill contains an endorse- 
ment of cash and the name of respondent No. 
1 . 

(3) Bill No. 909 (Exhibit PW. 51/1) dated 24th 
February 1971 is for painting of 13 banners 
for Rs. 117. This bill also contains an en- 
dorsement of cash and the name of respondent 
No. 1. 


The witness states that these bills are only in respect 
of painting and do not include the price of cloth which 
according to him, was supplied by the son of respon- 
dent No. 1 who was accompanied by an artist known 
as Deepak. He further states that Dr. Rosban Lai 
(RIW. 34) was the person who made payment of these 
bills which are entered in his ledger and cash book. 
He then states that 39 meters of cloth would be re- 
quired for the banners in bill Exhibit PW. 51/1; 33 
meters for the banners in bill Exhibit PW. 51/2 and 
42 yards for the banners in bill Exhibit PW 51/3. 
According to this witness, the long cloth required for 
these banners was priced at between Rs. 2.56 
and Rr. 3 per meter. In cross-examination, this 


witness also gives the usual explanation that the name 
ui me customer is not mentioned m the bill it tne 
customer so desires and tiiat — and this is surprising — 
tne person who had gone to him had told him not to 
put down the name of respondent No. 1 in the admit- 

bill No. 905 (Exhibit PW.51/3). He admits that at 
the time of taking orders, he makes a record thereof on 
small slips w men, according to nim, are destroyed 
alter the work is completed. He also admits that 
although he maintains a register, the receipt of cloth 
or of the order pertaining to these bills is not men- 
tioned in that register and he explained voluntarily, 
that this sort of jobs are not mentioned in that regis- 
ter which is meant for big jobs like jobs from Burmah 
Shell etc. He denied the suggestion that he had men- 
tioned the name of respondent No. 1 in the two dis- 
puted bills later. He admits that he maintains another 
bill book which relates to orders where he supplies 
the cloth also but that bill book is not produced. He 
admits that he does not maintain any receipt book. 
Then, he was confronted by his bill Exhibit Rs. 5/- 
and his estimate Exhibit Rs. 6. Both these documents 
contain the rates for painting of banners including the 
cos. of cloth. The rate in the bill is Rs. 9.45 and the 
rate in the estimate is Rs. 5/- per banner. It may 
here be mentioned that the rates in the bills Exhibit 
PW. 51/1 to Exhibit PW. 51/3 work out to Rs. 9 
or Rs. 8/- per banner. When confronted by these two 
documents, he explained that the rates mentioned 
therein are concessional. The explanation of this wit- 
ness that the representative of respondent No. 1 who 
had placed the order with him had asked him not to 
mention the name of respondent No. 1 in thd admitted 
bill and had not made by request in that behalf in 
the two disputed bills does not appeal to me. It will 
be noticed that the difference in the amount of the 
admitted bill Exhibit PW. 51/3 and the amount of the 
disputed bill Exhibit PW. 51/1 is of only Rs. 5/-. If 
the witness is to be believed, the original bills must 
be in the custody of respondent No. 1. Why then 
should respondent No. 1 not file with his return of 
expenses the disputed bill Exhibit PW. 51/1 and file 
only the admitted bill Exhibit PW. 51/3 which does 
not contain his name when the difference is orfly of 
Rs. 5/-? It is argued on behalf of the petitioner that 
it is because of such a fire that a wrongful act is 
detected but the argument has only to be stated to 
be rejected. In view of my earlier observations re- 
garding the standard of proof in respect of items the 
responsibility for which is sought to be fastened upon 
thereturned candidate. I have not hesitation in reject- 
ing the testimony of this witness, which cannot be 
relied upon in the absence of any written order by 
respondent No, 1 or any other document to connect 
respondent No. 1 with the disputed bills. 

It is further argued on behalf of the petitioner that 
no person has appeared on behalf of respondent No. 1 
to account for the 14 admitted banners while there is 
evidence on the record in the statement of O. P. Bharti 
'RTW 23) dated 16th March, 1972 that he saw banners 
of the Congress on all the main road in Sadar Parlia- 
mentary Constituencv in terms of thousands. Assum- 
ing that this statement of O. P. Bharti (RIW. 23) is 
true it is not enough to charge' respondent No. 1 
with the corrupt practice under section 123(4) of the 
Act unless it i s proved that the expense for such thou- 
sands of banners was incurred or authorised by him 
or by his election agent. Such vague and indefinite 
evidence cannot be taken into consideration to fasten 
liability on the return candidate in terms of money. 

The artist Deepak. mentioned by this winess, has 
mt been produced bv the petitioner although he was 
cited as a witness. Dr. Roshan Lai (RIW 34), election 
agent of respondent No. 1, in his statement dated 28th 
March. 1971. denies knowing Prem Chand Gover or 
his firm Krishna Art Studio or having supplied any 
cloth to him or making anv payment, tn his state- 
ment dated 5th April. 1972, respondent No. 1 denies 
knowing Prem Chand Grover (PW.51) and states that 



[Part II — 


4506 1HE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


he saw mm lor the first time when this witness came 
to Court to give evidence although he admits that his 
son, Rajesh, had placed the admitted order for banners 
with Krishan Studio. 


Petitioner has also criticised the production of the 
bill exhibit Rs, 5 and the estimate Exhibit Rs. 6 
procured during the trial of this election petition and 
argued that respondent No. 1 has created evidence and 
a presumption should be raised against' him. Reliance 
is placed upon the judgmennt of the Supreme Court 
dated 1st April, 1970 in C.A. No. 1590 of 1969 in 
Re, Ch. Dai Singh v. Narain Singh and another but 
I see no support or the proposition from this judg- 
ment. In that case, certain persons, knowing that 
another person was going to be a material witness 
in the election petition, got an affidavit from that 
person and the Supreme Court was of the view that 
this act amounted to an attempt to tamper with the 
evidence of that witness by previously getting a 
writing from him and later an affidavit which had 
been provided by one of those persons. The explana- 
tion given by respondent No. 1 for procuring Exhibit 
Rs. 5 and Exhibit Rs. 6 in his statement on 5th 
April, 1972 is that one of his workers over-heard a 
talk between the petitioner and another person during 
the trial of this petition to the effect that in the vou- 
cher produced by Prem Chand Grover it was not 
specifically mentioned that it included the cost of cloth 
and it was for this reason that he got an actual bill 
from this witness. Respondent No. 1 was faced with 
the problem that it was not mentioned in the admitted 
bill that cloth was included in the cost of painting and 
in order to prove that the rates given by Prem Chand 
Grover in the admitted bill included the cost of cloth, 
he sent two persons to obtain a bill and an estimate 
f or painting banners including the price of cloth. I 
fail to see how this can amount to tampering with 
the evidence, 


The netitioner, has, therefore, failed to prove that 
respondent No. 1 incurred the expense of Rs. 609.50 
for painting of banners other than the admitted banners 
and Rs.* 277.50 for cloth for the banners. 


Then an amount of Rs. 150 is claimed as an amount 
of additional expense on the allegation that this amount 
was paid by respondent No. 1 to Misri Lai (P.W. 16) 
for pasting posters In the locality. This witness states 
that he pasted some posters for respondent No, 1 and 
the Congress at the instance of one Bachu Singh who 
has not been produced. He states, that he pasted 10 
or 12 thousand posters for respondent No, 1 and the 
Congress party from Shakti Nagar to Shora Kothi 
and upto Baraf Khana. He described the posters. 
He says that some posters contained the photograph 
of Smt. Indira Gandhi and respondent No. 1; one pos- 
ter was about the petitioner which stated that Lala Ji 
had got out of his New Delhi house and his DarsTian 
may be had otherwise he will not be seen for the next 
five or six years and another poster was about Dal 
and it stated that the petitioner had given adulterated 
Dal to the Military. Having stated this his memory 
failed because be could not remember about the other 
posters alleged to have been pasted by him. He states 
that he used to be taken to Bharti Vidayala near 
Shakti Nagar where posters were given to him by 
Kula Nand Bharti (RIW. 4) and that he pasted posters 
at night at the rate of Rs. 5 per hundred posters. His 
charges are alleged to have been paid by the aforesaid 
Bachu Singh. In cross-examination he admitted that 
he had not mentioned about the pasting of posters to 
the petitioner to anybody else; that he did not keep 
any account nrd that, did not give anv receipt for 
• vment made to him. He also admitted that he part- 
ed posters for Congress CO) but he could not give the 
subject matter of these posters. He admits that he is 
illiterate and can only sign and he stated that if he is 
shown any poster in Court, he would not. be able to 
r"8 d if because of bad eye-sight which had beep had 


for some time. My general observations about the 
approach to such question applies with particular force 
to the statement of this witness who is not supported 
by any documentary evidence much less unimpeach- 
able documentary evidence. His statement in examl- 
nation-in-chief about his having read two or three 
posters that he pasted is completely belief by his ad- 
mission that he is illiterate and has bad eye-sight. It 
is argued that even on the admission of respondent 
No. 1, some posters had been got printed by him but 
no witness has been produced to prove as to who had 
pasted th e admitted posters and no amount has been 
disclosed in the return of expenses as having been in- 
curred for pasting of poster which is unbelievable. The 
criticism seems to me to be unjustified. Dr. Roshan 
Lai (RIW. 34), election agent of respondent No, 1, has 
stated in his examination on 24th March, 1972 that 
the posters which had been given to him had been 
pasted in his Metropolitan Constituency by his workers. 
There is no cross-examination of this witness to ask 
as to whether any of these workers was paid. To 
the same effect is the statement of Kula Nand Bharti 
(RIW. 4) dated 8th February, 1972. This is the wit- 
ness who is running the Bharti Vidayala and he states 
that he does not know any Misri Lai (PW. 18) as a 
worker in his area. He further states that he had 
given one or two posters to each worker to paste in 
the locality. This witness also has been cross-examin- 
ed as to whether any expense was incurred in getting 
these posters pasted. Respondent No. 1 in his state- 
ment dated 1st March, 1972 has denied knowing Misri 
Lai (PW. 16) or engaging him or paying him any 
money for pasting posters in the constituency. In 
the face of this evidence on behalf of respondent" No. 1, 
no reliance can be placed merely upon the oral state- 
ment of Misri Lai (P.W. 16) so as to charge res- 
pondent No. 1 ag having incurred an additional ex- 
pense of Rs. 150. 

The next item is for Rs. 600 which is alleged to 
have been incurred or authorised by respondent No. 1 
for engaging the scooter of Amar Nath (P.W. 17). 
This witness has stated that he is the owner of scoo- 
ter No. DLR 8653 which had been hired by respon- 
dent No. 1 at Rs. 25 per day from J 0th February, 
1971 to 5th March, 1971. In addition respondent No. 
1 is alleged to have borne the petrol expenses and 
paid tor the food of this witness through Lila Ram 
who was alleged to be another worker of respondent No. 
1. He has made a general statement about the use 
to which his scooter was put. In cross-examination 
he admits that he does not maintain any account and 
that the hire paid to him was not entered anywhere 
nor did he give any receipt for the payment made 
to him. He also admitted in cross-examination that 
he did not tell anybody about the hiring of a scooter 
or of payment to him. My general remarks about 
such evidence would apply with full force to the 
testimony of this witness furtiher the person Lila 
Ram named by this witness was cited as a witness 
by the petitioner but was not produced. In his state- 
ment dated 3rd February, 1972, the petitioned has 
stated that Lila Ram was or,e of the person who 
were serving liquor at Nabi Karim during the elec- 
■'in T1 on behalf of respondent No. 1 but he admitted 
that this Lila Ram was the same person who had 
fought election against the Congress and Jana Sangh 
during Municipal Corporation elections. I find it diffi- 
cult to believe that a person who fought an election 
against the Congress would he a worker of respon- 
dent No. 1 and the volunteered statement of the peti- 
tioner that Lila Ram was the right-hand man of res- 
pondent No. 1 during Parliamentary elections cannot 
be relied upon In his statement dated 3rd April, 
1972, respondent No. 1 has denied having engaged 
the scooter of this witness or having made anv pay- 
ment to him There being no corroborative evidence 
ahout the alleged payment of Rs. 600 to Amar Nath 
(PW. 17) and the said Lila Ram not having been pro- 
duced, my conclusion is that the petitioner has failed 
to prove this item of Rs. 600 as an additional ex- 
panse incurred nr authorised by respondent No. 1. 



Sec, 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4507 


The next item is a small item of Rs. 54 which is 
sought to be proved by copy of the bill No. 785 (Exhi- 
bit PW. 2/1) dated 18th February, 1971 of Sood Litho 
Press for printing posters and handbills. This bill 
was produced by fauteeq Farooqi (PW. 2), Manager 
of the Sood Litho Press, and is for printing posters 
and handbills. It is made out in the name of Amar 
Nath Chawla (respondent No. 1), through J. P. Goel 
(respondent No. 5). The bill states that it is for 
printing charges only and this witness has stated that 
he does not know how much paper was utilized for 
printing the posters and handbills in this bill. He 
was examined by the petitioner also to pTove that the 
pamphlet annexure ‘A’ and the poster annexure ‘B’ 
were printed at the Sood Litho Press. When Ques- 
tioned, he denied, that these had been printed at the 
Sood Litho Press. At the request of counsel for the 
petitioner, I made an order under section T54 of the 
Indian Evidence Act and permitted the petitioner to 
cross-examine him. His evidence with regard to the 
printing of annexure ‘A’ and 'B' will be examined in 
some more detail when I discuss the relevant Issue. 
Suffice it to that the witness is unreliable because, to 
use a common phrase, he turned hostile to the peti- 
tioner who produced him. In cross-examination,' hfl 
admits that he is a member of the Jana Sangh which 
again is a statement which is difficult to believe. He 
further admits that for printing iuuibills and posters 
mentioned in the bill (Exhibit PW. 2/1), mo aeelara- 
tion was obtained from anyoody the obvious reference 
being to section 127- A of tne Act. He further admits 
that he could not say who had made payment of the 
bill (Exhibit PW. 2/1). Respondent No. 1 has denied 
in his statement dated 31st March, 1972 that he had 

f ot any of the things mentioned in the bill (Exhibit 
‘W. 2/1) printed from the Sood Litho Press. Ac- 
cording 1 q the witness, the accounts of flood Litho- 
Press are maintained by Avtar Krishan Aggarwal, 
husband of the proprietor Smt. Krishna Devi. Avtar 
Krishan Aggarwal has not been produced by the peti- 
tioner and the excuse for his non-production has al- 
ready been rejected by me while discussing the evi- 
dence relating to the pamphlets Exhibit PW. 11/1 to 
Exhibit PW. 11/8. The mere oral statement of this 
witness even accompanied by a copy of an alleged 
bill which is disputed cannot be said to be oral evi- 
dence which is accompanied by unimpeachable docu- 
mentary evidence and in view of the denial of res- 
pondent No. 1, the only conclusion possible is that the 
petitioner has failed to prove that respondent No. 1 
had incurred or authorised the expens# Of Rs, 54 
represented by the bill Exhibit PW. 2/1. 


Then there is a connected item of Rs. 300 being the 
cost of paper utilized for the printing of posters and 
handbills mentioned in the above bill of Sood Litho 
Press bearing number No. 785 (Exhibit P.W. 2/1). It 
is argued that the total posters mentioned in this bill 
are 3,700 in number and, according to the statement 
of Chatter Sain (PW. 55) on 21st January, 1972, 6 
reams of paper costing Rs. 50 per ream would have 
been utilized. Since I have held that the posters etc. 
mentioned in the bill Exhibit PW. 2/1 were not got 
printed by respondent No. 1, thla claim must fall with 

ft. 

(yr- 

Then another small claim of Rs. 75 is urged by the 
petitioner for the paper that must have been used 
for printing 5,000 handbills of Mrs. Indira Gandhi’s 
appeal which were admittedly got printed by respon- 
dent No. 1 at Sood Litho Press vide their bill Exhibit 
R. 19 dated 27th February, 1971 filed by respondent 
No. 1 with his return of expenses. This bill bearing 
number 798 states that it is for printing "5000 — hand- 
bills — appeal of Smt. Indira Gandhi. Complete ptg. 
etc." at the rate of Rs. 20 per thousand and it is for 
Rs. 100. Below the above writing, exist within brac- 
kets the words "(printing charges only)” and this 
writing has been struck out in an ink which does ap- 
pear to differ from the ink used for the other writings 

on thi# bill. According to the calculation given by 


Chatter Sain (P.W. 55), 2 1/2 reams of papers are re- 
quired for printing 5000 handbills such as are mention- 
ed in tnis bill and the cost of that will be Rs 75 at 
the rate of Rs. 30 per ream. Taufeeq Parooqi (PW. 2) 
has stated that in Feoruary-March, 1971, Sood Litho 
Press were charging at the rate of Ra. 8 per thousand 
it the composed matter on yellow paper of the size 
of 20" X 30" or 18" X 22" were given to them and 
lor printing posters they were charging Rs. 7 to Rs. 8 
per thousand if the size of the poster was 18" X 22" 
or 20" X 30". He proved the receipt (Exhibit R. 1) 
lor Rs. 100 which was given in respect of this bill 
under the signatures of Avtar Krishan Aggarwal. 
After making this statement and a further statement 
with regard to bill No, 785 (Exhibit PW. 2/1). the 
petitioner, as stated earlier was allowed to cross-exa- 
mination this witness under section 154 of the Indian 
Evidence Act and, apart from the fact that his testi- 
mony cannot be relied upon, he has not made It clear 
in his evidence as to whether paper for this bill was 
supplied by respondent No. 1. The contention on behalf 
of respondent No. 1 is that it is proved on the record 
that the printing charges for handbills like those men- 
tioned in the admitted bill (Exhibit R. 19) would be 
between Rs. 6 to Rs. 8 per thousand, therefore, the 
difference between Rs. 20 per thousand, as charged 
in this ibill, and Rs. 6 to Rs. 8 per thousand, would 
•over the cost of paper required and that is why after 
writing within brackets as mentioned above, this 
writing was struck oil. It is further contended that 
the words "complete ptg. etc.” would include the cost 
of paper also. Apart frpm the statement of Taufeeq 
Farooqi (PW. 2) mentioned above about the rates of 
charges for printing of handbills and posters, reliance 
is placed upon the testimony of Gopal Krishan Arora 
(PW. 23) who has stated that the charges of type 
printing or litho printing were between Rs. 8 and 
Rs. 12 per matter per thousand and that the rate did 
not vary with the size of the paper or the quantum 
of the subject matter. Further corroboration ia deriv- 
ed by respondent No. 1 from the bill dated 15th Febru- 
ary. 1971 (Exhibit R. 18) filed by respondent No. 1 
with his return of expenses which was issued by Kapur 
Printing Press for printing of 5,000 handbills of the 
speech of Mrs. Indira Gandhi. The bill is for Rs. 130 
and it states that this bill is for the cost of composing, 
printing and paper. It is no doubt true that the 
striking off of the line "for printing charges only” 
in the bill Exhibit PW. 2/1 makes the matter suapi- 
cious tout in view of the fact that Taufeeq Farooqi 
(PW. 2) has not spoken clearly as to whether the bill 
was for the cost of paper also and further in view of 
the fact that rates of printing are between Rs. 6/- and 
Rs. 8/ -per thousand, the argument of respondent No. 1 
that the bill exhibit R. 19 was not only for the cost of 
printing but also for the cost of paper appears to me 
to be more probable. In the absence of any cqnplu- 
sive evidence on behalf of the petitioner that the rate 
of Rs. 20 per thousand could not include the cost of 
paper, I cannot hold that the cost of paper for the 
handbills in exhibit R. 19 has to be taken into consi- 
deration. Nor can I hold on the evidence on record 
that even if the cost of paper is to be added, it was 
incurred or authorised by respondent. No. 1, 

Then I come to two telephone bills one is exhibit 
PW. 24/4 for temporary telephone No. 567954 at the 
Sadar Thana election office of respondent No. 1 for 
Rs, 365.80 and the other is bill Exibit PW 24/5 for the 
permanent telephone number 262433 for Rs. 327,60 at 
the residence of respondent No. 1. 

With regard to the bill Exhibit PW. 24/4, L.D, Kalra 
(PW, 24), Telephone Revenue Inscpector, has stated 
that a temporary connection No. 567954 was giver, and 
a sum of Rs. 375/- has been shown by respondent No. 

1 in his return of election expenses and since the am- 
ount of this advance is larger than the amount of the 
bill (Rs. 305.80) the petitioner has not made out any 
case with regard to the addition of Rs- 365,80 in conne- 
ction with temporary telephone No. 567954 at the Sadar 
Thana election office. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II — 


4508 


The bill Exhibit PW. 24/6 is in connection with the 
permanent telephone at the residence of respondent No. 
1 lor the period 1st January, 1971 to 31st March, 1971 
lor local calls. The contention of the petitioner is that 
this telephone at the residence of respondent No. 1 
must have been used for election purposes and a pro- 
portionate amount for February and March, 1971, 
should have been disclosed by respondent No. 1 with 
his return of election expenses. Respondent No. 1 has 
denied that the permanent telephone at his residence 
was used for election: purposes. In any case, it is 
impossible to determine the number of calls that 
may have been made from this telephone during the 
election period for election purposes from out of the 
total calls charged for the period 1st January 1971 to 
31st March, 1971. 1, therefore, cannot accept the 

petitioner’s contention that the amount of these two 
bills must bo added to the amounts shown in the 
return of expenses. 


The next item is of Rs. 30 and the case of the 
petitioner is that this amount was incurred o r autho- 
rised by respondent No. 1 for announcements of 
meetings by beat of drum. Support is sought to te 
derived from the statement of Vijendra Jain (R1W6) 
Who in his statement on 9th February, 1972, has 
spoken about announcement of three meetings of res- 
pondent No. 1. This witness states that the announce- 
ment was made through a drumbeater. Sham Lai, at 
the rate of Rs. 19 per announcement and he used to 
pay him this amounts. There is no cross-examination 
by the petitioner to ascertain whether this amount 
was paid by Vijendra Jain (R1W6) from his own 
pocket or lie had been authorised to pay it by respon- 
dent No. 1. On the other hand, respondent No 1 in 
hits statement dated 3rd April, 1972, has categorically 
affirmed that apart from the expense shown m the 
statement of accounts and the vouchers he did not 
incur, ion authorize any other expenditure. Even 
- though, therefore, by the payment of Rs. 30 for drum 
beating is proved through the testimony of Vijendra 
Jain (RlW.ti) because he is a witness produced by 
respondent No. 1, no finding can be given that this 
payment by this witness was incurred or authorized 
by respondent No. 1 and, therefore, this item also 
cannot be udded as an additional item of expenses. 


The next item is again a very small item of Rs. 5 
for stationery and for this item reliance is pbced 
upon the testimony of Kula Nand Bharti (R1W,4) 
on 8th February, 1972, when he stated that the cost 
of the total stationery used in his office was Rs. 4 
or Rs. 5 during the election period. The reasons for 
disallowing the immediately proceeding item of Rs. 30 
apply also to this item which cannot be added an 
additional item of expense. 


Then I come to the item of Rs. 677.50 for alleged 
purchase of card-boards. This is deposed to by 
Gulshan Rai (PW. 25), who states that he carries 
on business in puper, board and aluminum foils. He 
states that respondent No. 1 came to his shop once 
and on 13th February, 1971, card-bpard was sold to res- 
pondent No 1 under cash memo. No. 6268 m respect 
of 2(1 bundles for Rs. 677.50. He has produced a 
copy of the cash Memo, (Exhibit P. W. 25/1). He 
brought his cash book also but no specific amount of 
Rs 577.50 is entered on the relevant date in the cash 
book because, according to the explanation given by 
this witness, the total of all the cash sales on a parti- 
cular day Is alone mentioned in the cash book, ine 
cash memo (Exhibit PW, 25/1) contains the name 
of respondent No. l but there are several cash 'nemos, 
in this book which do not contain the name of the 
purchaser. This witness also gives the usual explana- 
tion in cross-examination given by other witnesses 
of similar transactions that in the case of cash sales, 
names are entered only at the request of the custo- 
mers except in the case where cash sales are made to 
registered dealers. Out of 175 cash memos, in the 
cash memo, book only 8 bear names of the jourcHa- 
£ ers and only two such names are in the hand of this 
witness. His son who made the relevant cash memo, 
has not been produced. He denied the suggestion 


coming to give evidence and the place was blank. 
He also denied the suggestion that there was diffe- 
rence in the shade of the ink in which the name of 
respondent No, 1 was written and the shade of the 
ink in which the other part of the cash memo, was 
written. It is clear that the entry relating to the 
cash memo (Exhibit PW. 25/1) is not connected with 
any specific entry in the cash book. Therefore, as 
and by way of documentary evidence, only the cash 
memo Is left for consideration and that by itself 
cannot be said to be such unimpeachable documen- 
tary evidence which would be corroborative of the 
oral statement pf this witness. In support of the 
statement of this witness, the petitioner relies also on 
the statement of Satya Pal Chugh (PW. 34) on 3th 
January, 1972, when he stated that on polling booths 
of respondent No. 1 he found, amongst other things, 
big placards and during the election period iie saw 
placards on various shops which according to him 
number about 500. The case of the petitioner is tnat 
this evidence corroborates the testimony of Gulshan 
Rai (PW. 25) about the purchase of cardboard and it 
is alio contended that a suitable amount should be 
added for the making of these placards, in his state- 
ment on 25th January, 1972, the petitioner has also 
stated that there were placards pasted on earboards 
which were displayed outside the shops throughout 
the constituency and he estimates their number at 5000 
or 6000 and the cost thereof at Rs. 1,500 or Rs. 2,000., 
The petitioner also talks of hoardings at a cost of 
Rs. 150 and Rs. 200 to Rs. 300 and Rs. 400 each. In 
cross-examination, the petitioner admitted on 2nd 
February, 1972, that he did not know whether a licence 
from the Corporation was required for erecting the 
hoardings. On being asked as to who had prepared 
the hoardings, he stated that it was a person wnoae 
name was Gulzari Lai who was alive and still In 

Delhi. Gulzari Lai has not been produced. In my 

opinion, the documentary evidence furnished by the 
bill Exhibit PW. 25/1 is not of an unimpeachable 
character and, therefore, the amount of Rs. 577.50 
cannot be said to have been proved by the petitioner 
as havihg been incurred or authorised by respondent 
No. 1. As to the placards, Gulzari Lai has not been 
produced and the entire story of the placards and 

hoardings is based only upon the oral testimony of 

Satya Pal Chugh (PW. 24) and the petitioner which 
Is not enough to charge respondent No. 1 with Lability. 
I, therefore, reject these claims of the petitioner. 


Then there are two items of alleged additional ex- 
pense which may be dealt with together. One for 
Rs. 2,75 and the other for Rs. 450 are alleged to have 
been paid by respondent No. 1 for hiring the scooters 
of Krishan Lai (PW. 29) and Prem Nath (P.W31). 
Krishan Lai (PW. 29) has stated that his scooter 
was hired by respondent No. 1 from 23rd February, 
1971, till 5th March, 1971, at Rs. 25 per day plus petrol 
and food. He alleges that it was his duty to distri- 
bute cloth banners: posters and mottos amongst 
Congress workers which he used to bring from the 
election office of respondent No. 1 in Sadar Phana 
Road and on the day of polling he carried voters to 
the election office near the polling booths. He 
further alleges that Bhag Mai Tandan (R1W.14) was 
in charge of his Bcooter from which he used to make 
announcements for meetings by a loudspeaker. In 
cross-examination he is not able to remember either the 
names of the other persons who used to ride his 
scooter during the election days or even the name of 
the petrol supplier. He was not able to give the 
dates on which posters or banners of pamphlets were 
distributed from his scooter. He Is again one of 
those witnesses who in his anxiety to show that he 
was not concerned with the petitioner stated that he 
had not told anybody about what he had deposed in 
Court. No documentary evidence has been produced 
to prove any payment by respondent No. 1 for the 
hiring of the Scooter. Similar is the statement of 
Prem Nath (P.W. 31) Corroboration for the state- 
ments of these two witnesses is sought to be derived 
from the statements of Inder Mohan Bhardwaj 
(PW. 30); respondent No. 3 (PW. 32); M. L. Khurana 
(PW 10)- Dharam Vir (PW. 36) and the petitioner 



Sec. 3(ii'] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 2«, 1394 


4509 


made from scooter® through loudspeakers. Accord- 
ing to these witnesses of the petitioner, there were 
several meetings which were announced from scooters 
but Krishan Lai (PW. 29) whose scooter is alleged 
to have been hired talks only of announcement of 
one meeting. Prem Nath (PW 31) alleges that his 
Scooter was in the use of Bhana Ram (R1W.11). The 
case of respondent No, 1 is that Prem Nath (PW31; 
and one Kashmere Lai belonged to the Jana Sangh 
and they were arrested under section 107 of the Code 
of Criminal Procedure and were let out on bail on 
bonds furnished by Jana Sangh Metropolitan Coun- 
cillors. The witness Prem Nath (PW. 31) would have 
the Court to believe that he belongs to the Congress 
and that it was because he had talked against the 
Jana Sangh to Krishan Lai who belonged to the 
Jana Sangh that he was arrested. The fact that bail 
bonds were furnished by Jana Sangh Municipal 
Councillors is proved by H. A. Affl (RWI. 17) Sub- 
Divisional Magistrate, Paharganj who brought the file 
of Criminal case (State V- Kashmere Lai and Prem 
Nath under section 107/151. Criminal Procedure Code 
which was pending in this Court. He stated that bail 
bonds were furnished in the case of Prem Nath 
(P.W. 31) by a person who described himself as Mono- 
har Lai Kumar and the bail bond contained an 
endorsement at the back that the person who had 
furnished the bail bond was the Municipal Councillor 
from Ram Nagar constituency. The file was taken 
away by the witness but respondent No. 1 was given 
liberty to file certified copies of the bail bonds. These 
certified copies have been filed. Objection is taken on 
behalf of the petitioner to these certified copies being 
exhibited but the objection is ill-founded. These 
certified copies are part of an official record and are 
admissible under section 78 of the Indian Evidence 
Act, being public documents. I, therefore, direct that 
these two hail bonds be exhibited as R. 28 and R. 29, 
Respondent No. 1 has in hfs statement dated 3rd April, 
1972, denied having hired the scooter either of Krishan 
Lai (PW. 29) or of Prem Nath (PW. 31). Bhag Mai 
Tandon (RIW. 11) has also denied having ridden the 
scooter of Krishan Lai (PW. 29). The testimony of 
the other witnesses of the petitioner referred to earlier 
is general and they do not connect the announcements 
from scooters to the scooters of Krishan Lai (P.W. 29) 
and Prem Nath (PW. 31) and cannot, therefore, be 
corroborative of the incurring of the aforesaid two 
amounts. The aforesaid two amounts do not stand 
proved merely on the oral testimony of the witnesses 
referred ta above because mere oral testimony with- 
out unimpeachable documentary evidence is not suffi- 
cient to charge the returned candidate with liability. 

The next item is an item of Rs. 104.71 for electric 
consumption at the Idgah meeting or Prime Minister’s 
meeting held on 28th February, 1971. This claim must 
fall with my finding, already given, that the Idgah 
meeting was not a meeting the expense for which was 
incurred or authorised by respondent No. 1. It may 
be added that K. K. Srivastava (PW. 47) who is an 
attorney of the Delhi Supply Undertaking has stated 
that the application for temporary electric connection 
for <he Idgah meeting was signed by one Swaml Main 
Bo rib of 12 Beadonpura, Karol Bagh and that the con- 
sumption was Rs. 104.71. Swiami Atam Bodh has not 
been produced nor has nay witness on behalf of the 
petitioner stated any connection between Swami Atam 
Both and respondent No. 1. The claim in respect of 
this item must, therefore, fail. 

Then I come to the next item of claim with regard 
to the cost of material in 247 packets. Before I deal 
with the evidence in connection with these 247 packets 
and the material contained therein, I would like to 
state that the petitioner has left it to this Court to 
assess the value of the material on the basis of the 
aforementioned decision in (1958) 17 Election Law 

Reports. 

37. That decision can be resorted to only if it is 
proved that certain items of expense which were -'n- 
curred or authorised by the returned candidate have 


been proved and there is evidence on the record about 
their value. The story about those packets according 
to Subhash Arya (RIW35) is that he had received 
certain material like dummy ballot papers; brass 
seals; sealing wax; pencils; sheets of paper and flags 
which he put into 247 packets — one packet, being 
meant for one polling both in the entire constituency 
and that apart from flags and dummy ballot papers, 
the other material had t\een supplied by the Delhi 
Predesh Congress Committee. He then states that 
these packets were sent to 8 persons whom he bad 
nominated as in-charge of the 8 Metropolitan constitu- 
encies in the entire Parliamentary constituency. Om 
Parkash Meken (RWI); Kehur Singh (RIW. 3); Vljen- 
dra Jain (RIW. 6); Roshan Lai (R1W-34) and Shadi 
Lai Gulati (RIW. 32) have spoken’ about having re- 
ceived such packets but the criticism about their 
evidence is that each of them talks of different ai tides 
being the contents of the envelopes. It is further 
stated that Kula Nand Bharti (RIW. 4) and Nand Lai 
(RIW 8) do not speak of receiving these packets. 
It is true that there are minor discrepancies 
in the statements of the aforesaid witnesses, with 
regard to the contents of the packets but there is no 
contradiction of the statement of Subhash Arya (RIW 
35) that, barring the flags and the dummy ballot 
papers, all the other articles had been supplied h}' the 
Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee. Whatever be said 
about the evidence with regard to these packets 
the fact remains that there is no evidence to 
prove either that all the conlents of these packets 
were supplied by respondent No. 1 or that ho had 
incurred or authorised the cost thereof. Further the 
value of the contents of these packets, as stated earlier, 
has not been proved. The petitioner has left the matter 
at large expecting this Court to assess the value of 
the contents of these packets without any evidence. 
In these circumstances, it cannot be held that the ex- 
pense with regard to the entire contents of (he packets 
was incurred or authorised bv respondent No. 1 nor 
can a finding be given as to the cost thereof so as to 
charge respondent No, 1 nor can a finding be given 
as 1o the cost thereof so as to charge respondent No. 1 
with liability in respect of any specific amount, 

Similarly, thi s Court Is expected to accept the claim 
of the petitioner that the cost of 1000 or 1500 banners 
as displayed by respondent No. 1 in' the constituency 
should be charged to respondent No. 1. The evidence 
is vague, indefinite and inconclusive in determining 
either the number of banners or their cost. Respon- 
dent No. 1 has admitted the painting of 14 banners at 
a total cost of Rs. 112/- at the r nto o[ R3. 8/- per 
banner and It is contended that the banners spoken of 
by the witnesses of the petitioner should he calculated 
at this rate ag It is established that there were banners 
far in excess of the admitted 14 banners. Mad an La] 
Khurana (PW, 10) has stated that respondent No. I 
and 3 to 5 banners at each polling station but he can- 
not give the cost of each banner. He did not know 
where the banners had been painted nor can h e give 
the exact words which were nainted on th 1 banners 
Similarly, Satya Pal Chugh (PW. 34) ha® sunken of 
200 banners in hfs constituency; G. I,. Rival (P.W. 35) 
has spoken of 150 banners in his rnns! ;+ v~r - MoO) 
Chand (PW. 180) hag ppoWri of 100 brnncis In bis loca- 
lity; Govihd Ram Verma (PW. If)) has spoken of inn 
or 150 banners in his area and Tnder Mohan Bhardwai 
"(PW. 30) has spoken of 300 banners in his constitu- 
ency. 

All these witnesses are in fhc nature 0 f omnibus 
witnesses and are directly and Indirectly connected 
with the Jana Sangh party to which the pctIHoner be- 
longs. In mv view, it is necessary for Ihe purpose of 
establishing the particular corrupt practice regarding 
expanses which I am discussing for n petitioner to 
prove that the expense? werp incurred nv authorised 
bv the returned candidate. It is for him. in the face 
of denial by the returned candidate, to nrore conclu- 
sively the source and the cost of Ihe additional items 
of expense. Elections are not merely matters concern- 
ing the immediate parties to the eleclion petition. They 



45io 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II— 


concern a large number of persons who even without 
having any personal or Intimate relation with the can- 
didate work during the elections In accordance with 
their political ideologies. Many of such person work 
voluntarily and even make propaganda at their own 
expanse without reference to any of the candidates. 
Therefore, unless a petitioner proves conclusively the 
connection of the returned candidate with an alleged 
item of additional expense, liability for it cannot b« 
fastened on the returned candidate merely from the 
number or quantity of the item which was seen In the 
locality. In this case there Is no evidence that respon- 
dent No. 1 spent anything on banners other than the 
14 admitted banners. It ig argued that in a large 
constituency like the Sadar Parliamentary constituency 
It Is inconceivable tljat banner s and, for the matter of 
that posters and handbills, were used only in quantities 
admitted by respondent No. T. I regTet my inability to 
accept this argument which postulates speculation on 
the part of the Court which the Court cannot in- 
dulge In a matter which Is essentially a matter of 
rupees and palse. I am, therefore, unable either to 
hold that respondent No. 1 had Incurred or authorised 
the expehse on banners other than the 14 admitted 
banners or to give a definite finding on their value on 
the evidence on this record. I cannot exclude the 
possibility that even If there were banners In addition 
to the 14 admitted banners, their cost had been incurred 
by other persons and not incurred by other persons 
and not incurred or authorized by respondent No. 1. 


The next head of expenses is for handbills; posters 
and the cost of pasting the posters. Thlg claim also 
suffers the same defect as Is the case with the imme- 
diately preceding claim. Main reliance is placed 
upon the testimony of the petitioner himself. Accord- 
ing to the petitioner where were 1000 or J500 posters 
for each meeting; 8 to 10 thousand posters like a nne- 
xur e ‘B’ 40 to 30 thousand pamphlets like annexure 
•A’; 30 to 35 thousand handbills like handbills A. 2 to 
A. 6 and A- 13; 40 to 50 thousand life sketches, of the 
petitioner; 3 o r 4 thousand posters like A. 57 and a 
like number of posters like A. 65; 1000 or 1500 of each 
of the posters which were filed by the All India Con- 
gress Committee In this Court: 25 or 30 thousand of 
each of the pamphlets and booklets produced by Raj 
Kumar Singh (PW. 20) 60 different types of posters 
and 35 different types of handbills: 10 thousand addi- 
tional posters and 50 to 60 thousand handbills; about 
2 Or 3 thousand poster., and handbills about burning 
of children; 1000 or 1500 posters for each of the meet- 
ings; of respondent No. 1; handbills for meetings 
5, lacg Identity slips and lac s of dumy ballot 
papers. A mere reading of the statement of the peti- 
tioner would convince any one that the claim is fan- 
tastic; unreal and even false. Many of the alleged 
posters; handbills; pamphlets; booklets and other print- 
ed material have not even been filed by the petitioner 
In Court. Nor has it been proved by any other 
evidence of the petitioner about the extent, much less 
the number and the variety of these posters etc. A 
part from the statements of his own witnesses like 
Inder Mohan Bhardwal (PW. 304; Chunnl Lai (PW. 32); 
Sat™ Pal Chugh (PW. 34). (T L. Rawal (PW, 35) 
and Som Dev Arva (PW. 52) reliance is placed on thf 
testimony of A. K. Sen (PW. 30) who is a reporter o- 
the Hindustan Times and toured the constituency dur- 
ing the election period and wrote an article about it 
^Exhibit PW. 30/11 which was published In the 
Hindustan Times. According to thl s witness he saw 
posters and streamers all over the palce but he does 
not say which of these posters and streamers were of 
the Congress .and which of the Jan Sanah and which 
of the other parties contesting the election. The al- 
legations and evidence with regard to the posters etc. 
apart from being vague appear to me to be fantast’c 
Here again, the real question Is a? to the amount In- 
curred or authorized by respondent No. 1 on these 
posters. There is no evidence produced bv the peti- 
tioner on this aspect of the mater apart from giving 


estimatea about the number and the cost which cannot 
be relied upon. It i 8 ap impossible task which the 
petitioner wantg the Court to perform and to perform 
it without any evidence worth the name. Surely If 
the extent of the posters was as is described by the 
petitioner and hlg witnesses it should not have been 
difficult for him to produce evidence of the printing 
presses who might have printed these posters and who 
would have with them declarations as required under 
section 127-A of the Act. The petitioner must fail in 
his allegations that respondent No. 1 spent thousands 
or lacs of rupees on posters etc. 

Then a claim la made that I must assess the cost of 
announcements through loudspeakers and scooters of 
meetingg of respondent No. 1 Such announcements 
have been spoken of by Madan Lai Khurana (P. W. 
10) Krishan Lai (P W. 29) Tnder Mohan Bhardwij 
(PW. 30); Prem Nath (PW. 31)! Chunni Lai (PW. 
32); Dharam Vlr (PW. 56) and the petitioner himself. 
Again the evidence is vague; indefinite; inconclusive 
and. in my opinion exaggerated. Apart from the 
admitted amount of Rs. 45/- as per the vouchers at 
page 32 in the file Exhibit PW 5/1, I cannot hold 
that respondent No. 1 has incurred or authorized the 
expense on announcement of meetings on loudspeakers 
and scooters and the petitioner must fial under this 
head also. 


Then It Is claimed that respondent No l spent huge = 
amounts on maintaining numerous election offices. 
According to the petitioner’s statement, recorded on 
5th January, 1972, the head election office of respon- 
dent No. 1 was at Sadar Thana Road which is admitted 
by respondent. No. 1, and he had (lection offices tor 
each of the 16 Municipal Wards and at each of the 
247 polling booths. The case of respondent No. 1 
Ig that he did not have any election offices except the 
one at Sadar Thana Road. Kula Nand Bhartl (RlW. 4) 
states that the workers used to work in their houses. 
This claim of the petitioner has al • to be rejected as 
being vague, lndlflnlte and inconclusive apart from 
saying that the expense,, alleged to have been incurred 
or authorized by lespondent No. 1 at the alleged 
election offices have not been proved at all. 

Then it Is stated that on the day of polling respon- 
dent No. 1 had incurred expenses on stationery; food: 
furniture and cartage respondent No \ has denied 
having made any arrangement at the polling booths on 
the day of polling. Om Parkash Maken (RTW. 11 states 
that on this day. his workers brought small furniture 
from their own houses. There is complete absence of 
evidence on behalf Of the pet.tloner as to the actual 
incurring or authorizing of the expenditure by respon- 
dent No. 1 on the dav of polling alibough various wit- 
nesses of the petitioner like Madan Lai Khurana 
(PW. 10); Govlnd Ram Vem.a (PW. 19); Om Parkash 
Saehdeva (PW, 21): G. K. Arora (PW. 23); I. M 
Bhardwaj (PW. 30); Chunni Lai (PW. 32); G. L. Rawal 
(PW. 35) and the petitioner himself have talked about 
what they saw at the polling booths as to furniture; 
food: atationerv and cartage which n'lffers from witness 
to witness. There is no evidence to prove the extent 
of the expenses assuming that these things were avail- 
able at the polling booths Nor is there anv 
connection between the expense,; of these things on the 
polling booths and respondent No 1 In so far as in- 
curring of authorizing Is concerned It is argued that 
respondent No. I has himself admitted that lie spent 
Rs. 60/- for food on the counting agents on the dav of 
count in cr and, therefore he must have supplied food to 
his worker? at the polling booth? also Even If food 
was supplied to the workers, no inference can b“ 
drawn that It was sunplted bv respondent No. 1. All 
that the witnesses of t be netftte>i" r ha’"= moken p^otT 
I? that thev saw the worker? being supllied with food. 

T t is possible that <be workers had brought their own 
food and because there Is th;? possIbUitv it cannot be 
held that the expense on anvthlng on the dav of polling 
was incurred or authorized by respondent No. 1, Much 



Sec. 3(iI) J 


4511 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


less can any estimate be made of the cost of the things 
supplied on the day of polling in the complete absence 
of any evidence in the record. 

In the same line is the claim with regard to the ex- 
penses alleged to have bean incurred by respondent 
No. 1 on corner meetings. Reliance is placed upon the 
statement of respondent No. 1 oh 3rd April, 1072 that 
for his election propaganda he hold corner meeting*; 
had rounds of the constituency ; met people in the 
constituency individually and addressed public meet- 
ings. In his statement on 4th April, 19712 respondent 
No. 1 admitted that he had no record of the comer 
normally corner meetings wore held in houses but It 
S or 6 a day. Respondent No, 1 further stated that 
hormally cornor meetings, were held in houses but It 
depended on the local workers as to how many people 
they called and that the attendance at the*e corner 
meetings used to be from 5 to 7 persons to about 100 
persons and further that these corner meetngs in 
Katras were held in open spaces. It Is contended that 
it is not believable that no arrangement for furniture 
etc. was made for these corner meetings and In the 
absence of any defence that arrangements for those 
corner meetings had been made by other persons, it 
must be inferred that the furniture etc. required In 
these corner meetings was at the cost of respondent 
No. 1. It is only Inder Mohan Bhardwaj (PW. 30). 
who is one of the omnibus witnesses, who has stated in 
his examination In chief that he had seen 5 or 6 
corner meetings in his Metropolitan constituency and 
in these meetings ther 8 were 2 or 3 Takhats, durries 
and lights. The petitioner has not produced any 
evidence to prove as to who had supplied this furniture 
at the corner meetings. It was not put by the petitioner 
in cross-examination of either respondent No. 1 or the 
other witnesses of the respondent as to whether there 
was any furniture etc. at the corner meetings, and If 
so, who had supplied and paid for it. Merely from the 
circumstances that there may have been some furni- 
ture on these corner meetings as deposed by their 
Mohan Bhardwa.l (PW. 30) it cannot be inferred that 
the expenses thereof were incurred or authorised by 
respondent No. 1. Apart from that, no specific 
amount is claimed by the petitioner as having been 
Incurred by respondent No. 1 at the corner meetings 
and the petitioner has merely left the matter to specu- 
lation by the Court as to thp extent and cost of such 
alleged furniture or as to who had incurred it. In 
thi s situation, no case is made out by the petitioner to 
add any amount whatsoever as having been incurred 
by respondent No. 1 to the admitted items of expense. 

Again the amount alleged to have been spent by 
respondent No. 1 on flags; stencils and badges is left to - 
speculation by the Court, As t 0 stencils, Gopal Krishan 
Arora (PW, 23) has stated on 3rd January, 1972 that 
he found stencils pasted in the entire constituency apart 
from flags, banners, motors and buntings. According 
to him the stencils were on the walls at a distance of 
4 or 5 feet In every street in the constituency and there 
were 2 or 3 different types of subject matters of the 
stencils, the common feature of which was the symbol 
and the name of respondent No, 1. This oral statement 
Is not supported by any documentary evidence. If In 
fact there were any stencils, it would have been easy 
for the petitioner to produce at least photographs there- 
of at the hearing of this petition because stencils are 
somewhat durable and remain on the walls for a con- 
siderable time. This witness who has political affinity 
with the petitioner has not given either the number of 
such stencils or the amount that might have been in- 
curred upon them and by whom. The petitioner in 
his statement on 25th January. 1972 has again made a 
fantastic claim when he states that slogans were put on 
the walls by stencils by respondent No. 1 in Hindi, 
English and Urdu throughout the constituency. and 
according to him, the number of such stencils must 
have been in terms of lacs and the cost thereof between 
Rs. 4 900/- or Rs. 5.000/-. There is no documentary 
evidence at all to support, this estimate of the petition- 
er had in the face of the denial of respondent No. 1 In 
hlfl statement on 4th April, 1972 that he did not get 


any stencils painted on the walls in the constituency 
during the election at his expense, the aforesaid state- 
ments of the petitioner and Gopal Krishan Arora 
(PW. 23) cannot be relied upon, so as to charge respon- 
dent No. 1 with any liability. As to badges, Govind 
Ram Verma (PW. 19) another omnibu a witness, Btated 
on 23rd December, 1971 in answer to a leading question 
by the counsel for the petitioner that lady workers and 
other workers had badges on their arms when they 
used to go on their rounds; that some of the badges 
were of cloth and some were of plastic and that they 
contained the figure either of the tricolour or of calf 
and cow. This witness has not given the number of 
such badges of the cost thereof. The petitioner in his 
statement on 25th January, 1972 has made another 
fantastic claim without any supporting evidence that 
respondent No. J had badges made of cloth and plastic 
in terms of lacs, the cloth badges being worn by the 
workers of respondent No. 1 and the plastic badges 
being distributed throughout the constituency- Res- 
pondent No, 1 has admitted purchasing badges worth 
Rs. 56/- and Rs, 110/- vide vouchers at pages 23 and 
30, respectively of the file Exhibit P.W. 5/1. It is 
Contended that these badges were for only two polling 
stations and in view of the testimony of the petitioner 
and Govind Ram Verma (PW. 19) it must be assumed 
that (lie petitioner must have distributed badges for all 
the 247 polling stations costing Rs. 15/- per polling 
stations. If I were to accept thi s argument, I would be 
speculating as to the number of badges and as to the 
cost incurred or authorised by respondent No. 1. The 
evidence of the petitioner under this head also is 
merely oral and unaccompanied by unlpeachable docu- 
mentary evidence. The evidence is interested and for 
all these reasons it cannot be relied upon so as to 
fasten liability In respect of any amount on respondent 
No. 1 for alleged purchase of badges. As to flags, the 
same witness Gopal Krishan Arora (PW. 23) has stated 
that he found flags throughout the constituency. Accord 
ing to the petitioner In his statement on 25th January, 
1972, there were cloth flags whose number must have 
been 10 thousand or 12 thousand. According to him 
the flags were big as well as small. The cost of each 
small flag including the pole comes to Rs. 1,50 to Rs. 2/- 
and the cost of the bigger flags varies from Rs. 20/- 
to Rs. 50 each according to its size. He avers that 
the flags were in tricolour of the Congress and were 
fixed on the roofs of houses and shops and on electric 
poles throughout the constituency. Satya Pal Ghugb 
(PW. 34) ha s talked about seeing flags on 25. or 30 
polling booths in Shakti Nagar, Rahatganj. Similarly 
Som Dev Arya (PW. 52) in his statement on 18th 
January, 1972 is alleged to have seen flags on the 32 
polling booths in his Metropolitan Constituency, Madan 
Lai Khurana (PW. 10) in his statement oh 21st Janu- 
ary, 1971 ha s spoken of seeing Congress Sags on 
scooters and taxis before and during the polling. The 
statements of the petitioner and his other witness 
again conjectural as to numbers and unsupported 
by unimpeachable documentary evidence. 


Respondent No. 1 has admitted purchasing 400 flags 
for Rs, 440 vide bill dated 13th February 1971 which 
is at page 49 of the file Exhibit PW. 5/1, The state- 
ments of Madan Lai Khurana (PW.10) : Satya Pal 
Chugh (PW, 34) and Som Dev Arya (PW.52) are con- 
sistent with the admission of respondent No. 1 that he 
bad purchased 400 flags. It is contended on behalf of 
he petitioner that according to Subhash Arya (R1W 
35) flags were sent to him only on March 4, 1972, 

which he forwarded to the polling stations and. there- 
fore, if any flags were seen in the constituency before 
March. 4. 1971. they must be additional flags which 
were purchased bv respondent No. 1. This contention 
is not supported by anv oral evidence much less by 
oral evidence supported by unimpeachable document- 
ary evidence, Again the netitioner has left the Court 
to speculate as to the number of these Items and their 
cost and it is impossible to accept the petitioner’s con- 
tention to add any amounts in respect of these items 
to the admitted items of expense. 



4512 


[Part 11-^ 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21. 1972/ASV1NA 29, 1894 


The next claim is on the basis that respondent No. 1 
had engaged paid workers which expense he has not 
disclosed in his return of expenses. Mool Chand 
(PW. 18) has stated that he saw 50 or 60 women 
working for 15 or 20 days before the election every 
day but he admits that he cannot say whether any 
one of them was paid. He is admittedly a relation of 
the petitioner. Inder Mohan Bhardwaj (PW. 30) haa 
stated on 5th January 1972 that there were some lady 
Congress workers working for respondent No. 1 who 
were taking rounds in the constituency distributing 
pamphlets and fetching voters. He makes the state- 
ment that some of the males and females working for 
respondent No. 1 were paid and that in his Metropoli- 
tan constituency respondent No. 1 had engaged about 
300 paid workers at rates varying from Rs. 3 to Rs. 5 
per day. In cross-examination, he admits that he 
never saw the workers of respondent No. 1 being paid 
in his presence. G. L, Rawal (PW, 35) in his state- 
ment on 11th January 1972 has stated that he saw 
posters being pasted by a labourer under the instruc- 
tions of two Congress workers but he does not say 
that he saw any payment being made to this labourer. 
There is, therefore, no evidence that any payment was 
made by respondent No. 1 to any person who was 
working for him. He has stated in his examination 
that he had thousands of workers but he has denied 
having made any payment to them. The evidence on 
behalf of the petitioner is again deficient in either 
proving the number of workers or the amount alleged 
to have been paid to them. None of such workers bar- 
ring Misri Lai (PW. 10), whose evidence I have al- 
ready discussed and rejected, has been produced by 
the petitioner to prove any payment. In these cir- 
cumstances and merely on the basis of oraTfeVldence 
which is nothing but an allegation, no amount can be 
charged to respondent No. 1 as an additional Item of 
expense. 


The last item of expenses alleged to have been in- 
curred by respondent No. 1 is on liquor. The first 
witness is Mool Chand (PW. 18) who has admitted 
himself to be related to the petitioner. He has stated 
in his examination on 23rd December 1971 that the 
persons whom he saw working in the Congress elec- 
tion office were also seen by him offering drinks to 
voters. Prem Nath (PW. 31) has made a voluntary 
statement on 8th January 1972 that in the evenings on 
2nd March 1971 and 3rd March 1971 he carried liquor 
to Prem Basti; f»2 Quarters and Ara Kashan Road 
He is alleged to be the scooter driver who was engaged 
by respondent No, 1 and whose testimony I have 
already rejected as being false. The petitioner has 
also not lagged behind these two witnesses in making 
a statement about liquor. When his statement in 
examination-in-chief was continued after lunch on 
25th January 1972 he stated that one week before the 
day of polling respondent No. 1 had started extertain- 
ing some people with liquor throughout the constitu- 
ency and that a considerable amount of liquor was 
served in the entire constituency during the night of 
polling. In’ hig cross-examination on 3rd February, 
1972 he reasserted about the serving of liquor by 
respondent No. 1 and started that it was served in 
Nabi Karim area. He has gone to the extent of say- 
ing that it was done in his presence. He has also 
asserted that liquor was served in S oh an Gan j and 
Malka Ganj when he wag respondent and it was also 
served at Nabl Karim by Leela Ram; Gulzari Lai and 
Bhacr Mai Tandan (RIW. 14). Bhag Mai Tandan (RIW. 
14) was not cross-examined about liquor when he came 
as a withess for respondent No. 1 later. Bhana Ram 
(RIW ll) who Is alleged to have taken liquor on the 
scooter of Prem Nath (PW. 31) has denied either taking 
the scooter or liquor anywhere on the scooter at any 
time. Respondent No. 1 in his statement dated 4tn April, 
1972. has denied serving any liquor. The aforesaid 
Leela Ram mentioned by the petitioner m bis testi- 
mony is mentioned as one of the persons in the parti- 
culars furnished by the petitioner with reference to 
the allegations in paragraph 20(a) of thq petition. 


Apart from the fact that this Leela Ram has not been 
produced, respondent No. 1 has denied in his state- 
ment dated 4th April, 1972 that Leela Ram was one 
of the persons who were his polling agents or counting 
agents or workers. This allegation of the petitioner 
and his statement and the statements of his witnesses 
with regard to the service of liquor appears to me 
to be entirely unsupported by any reliable evidence. 
I have no hesitation in rejecting the petitioner’s case 
for addition of any amount towards the service of 
liquor to the admitted expenses. 

On the question of expenses apart from relying upon 
the aforesaid decision reported in i 958, 17 Election Law 
Reports 37, the petitioner has relied upon the decision 
of the Supreme Court reported in 68 Doablia’s Elec- 
tion Cases 337 in regard Dr. M. Chenna Reddy v. V. 
Ramachandra Rao and another and another decision 
of the Supreme Court reported in A.I.R. 1970 Supremo 
Court 1477 in re: D. P. Misra v. Kamal Narayan Sharma 
and another for the proposition that an inference must 
be drawn against the returned candidate if evidence 
which is available is not produced by him. The 
principle is unexceptional but it applies with greater 
force to the petitioner upon whom the burden lies to 
prove that the returned candidate was guilty of the 
corrupt practice of exceeding the expenses over the 
prescribed limit, As I have pointed out while dis- 
cussing the various heads, the evidence produced by 
the petitioner is unsatifactory, Inadequate, indefinite, 
inconclusive and in some cases even false and unbe- 
lievable. In such a case nothing survives for the 
returned candidate to disprove. The aforesaid deci- 
sions of the Supreme Court were cases where the facts 
were within the special knowledge of the returned 
candidate and evidence with regard to the special 
knowledge was withheld from the court, The princi- 
ples of these two decisions cannot he applied to the 
sort of evidence which has been adduced in this case 
bv the petitioner. I, therefore, hold that the petitioner 
fails on Issue No. 10. 

Issue Nos. 11, 12 and 13 are connected with Issue 
No. 10. It Is not necessray to set out the leadings 
again in extenso because the Issues appear to me to 
be sufficiently reflective of the pleadings. The case 
of the petitioner is that accounts were not maintained 
or verified in the manner prescribed by the rules and, 
therefore, respondent No. 1 is guilty of the corrupt 
practice contemplated bv sub-clnuse (iv) of clause 
(d) of sub-section (1) of section 100 of the Act. Sub- 
clause (iv) relates to non-compliance with the provi- 
sions of the Constitution nr of the Act, or of any rules 
and orders made under the Act. In case there in any 
non-compliance, a corrupt practice can be said to have 
been committed provided, as stated in clause (d), the 
result of the election, in so for as it concerns a returned 
candidate, has been materially affected. There is not 
an iota of evidence that such a result has been achie- 
ved by anv non-compliance as alleged. 1 mnv state 
Mr, S. N. Marwaha. learned counsel for the petitioner, 
did not even press these Issues In his arguments. The 
answer to these issues will, therefore, be against the 
petitioner. 

Then I take. Issues Nos. 8, 9 and 14 together because 
they are connected with each other. Isssuc No. 8 
refers to corrupt practices by respondent No. 1. his 
elertion agent and other 'persons with their consent 
which are set out in paragraphs 20 and 21 of the peti- 
tion. Issue No. 9 refers to repetition of the statements 
made in the poster annexure ‘B’ bv respondent No, 1 
and respondent No. 5 at public meetings and orally 
during canvassing in the constituency as alleged in 
paragraph 24 of the Petition. Evidence on these two 
T^spcs is. hv reasons of mv order dated August 0. 
1971. confined to the particulars furnished by the 
petitioner. Issue No. 14 is as to whether, if these 
corrupt practices a gainst respondent No. 5 have been 
proved, any order-p ngain=t him are required under 
sub-section (1) of section 99 of the Act. 



>LC. j(u)j 


TUil GAZETTE OE INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASV1NA 29, Jb94 4^1^ 


I have eai'lier set out in detail the pleasure ot the 
parlies wim reierence to the currupt practice relating 
io tiie hanaDUi amiexurc ‘A’ and tue posier annexure 
'B in paragraphs Zu to z4 ot tne petition; correspona- 
ing paragraphs ot the wntien statements ol respon- 
dents Nos, l and 5; replication ot the petitioner and 
the particulars iurmshea Dy tne petitioner, 1 will state 
mem again shortly. 

The petitioner s allegation is that respondent No. 1; 
his election agent, Dr. Roshan Dal (.RiW. 34j; Jai 
Pfakash U-oel (.respondent No. 5); Sood Ditho press 
and Sham Dal were responsible lor the printing ana 
publication of the handbill annexure 'A' and the poster 
annexurc \B' through the aforesaid Sood Ditho Press 
which were extensively distributed in the entire constl- 
tituency and similar statements were made by respon- 
dent No. 1 and respondent No, 6 public meetings in 
which both of them used to speak. Dr. Roshan Lai 
(RIVV. 34) respondent No. 5 and Sham Dal were alleged 
to be the agents of respondent No. 1 acting with his 
consent. In the better particulars filed by the peti- 
tioner, an improvement was made in the case by stat- 
ing that the handbill annexure ‘A’ had been printed 
on 23rd February, 1971 and 24th February, 1971 through 
Sood Ditho Press and also trom Sarvdeshik Prakashan 
Limited and other presses which were specified in the 
list of reliance filed by the petitioner. Respondent 
No. 1 denied the printing of the said handbill and 
poster by Sood Litho Press or by any other presses. 
He also denied that respondent No. 6 was his counting 
agent or active workers acting with his consent. 
Respondent No. 5 denied having had anything to do 
with said handbill and poster or its printing; publica- 
tion or distribution. Both respondent No. W and res- 
pondent No. 5 denied making any speeches on the 
subject of the handbill and poster. Respondent No. 
1, therefore, pleased that the other questions of the 
statements made in the handbill and the poster being 
false and believed to be false or not belived to be true 
or toeing statements reasonably calculated to prejudice 
the petitioner's election did not arise. Respondent 
No. 1 further denied knowing any Sham Lai. As a 
proposition of law it was submitted by respondent 
No. 1 that the statements in the said handbill and 
poster did not fail within the mischief of section 123(4) 
of the Act as the aforesaid statements were not in 
relation to the personal character or conduct of the 
petitioner but dealt with his conduct as a Member of 
Parliament which position he allegedly misused. 

The corrupt practice comtemplated by section 123(4) 
of the Act is: — 

“The publication by a candidate or his agent or 
by any other person, with the consent of a 
candidate or his election agent, of any state- 
ment of fact which is false, and which he 
cither believes to be false or does not believe 
to be true, in relation to the personal character 
or conduct of any candidate, or in relation to 
the candidature, or withdrawal, or any candi- 
date, being a statement reasonably calculated 
to prejudice the prospects of that candidates 
election.” 

In view of the pleadings of the parties, the questions 
that arise are whether respondent No, 1 res- 
pondent No. 5, Dr. Roshan Lai (RIW. 34) elec- 
tion agent of respondent No. 1, ' Sham 
Lai and Sood Litho Press printed and/or 
published annexures ‘A’ and ‘B’; whether these anne- 
xures contain any statement which is false; whether 
these statements relate to the personal character or 
conduct of the petitioner and whether these statements 
are reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects 
of the petitioner’s election. The part of the section 
relating to the belief of respondent No, 1 would not 
come into play in view of the case set up by respon- 
dent No. 1 in his written statement. The question 
whether these posters were printed at any press other 
than Sood Litho Press would also not arise as, apart 


from the fact that the names of the other -presses 
mentioned in the better particulars were by way of 
improvement of the case sot up in the petition, tnere 
is complete absence of evidence to show that these 
annexures were printed at any other press. In fact, 
even Babu Ram Sharma (PW. 11) and Chatter Bain 
(PW. 55) who are connected with the Sarvdeshik 
Press have not stated in their statements that these 
annexures were printed at their press. 

Annexure ‘A’ is a pamphlet in Hindi and the print- 
ing thereon is in red ink. Translation of it ilied with 
tne petition is not accepted as correct and I will, there- 
fore, given my own translation. There are two head- 
lines to this pamphlet in big type and the rest of the 
pamphlet is in smaller type. In English it would read 
thus: — 

“Contract of pulse to self and vote asked from 
people”. 

To day the people of Sadar Bazar have to think 
whether they have to re-elect or not kanwar Lai 
Gupta who got pulse contracts worth, lacs of rupees 
for his brothers and tried to supply adulterated (Sari- 
Gali) pulse to our Army. Now every one should on 
this occasion give a reply to such an opportunist who 
has put this black mark on our face by defeating him 
so that the voters of Sadar Bazar constituency may 
say in the whole of India that the Kanwar Lai Gupta 
who tried to feed adulterated Gali-Sari pulse to our 
Army and about whom the screen was lifted in Parlia- 
ment in 1970, will not now in 1971 be sent to deposit 
will be got forfeited as it was forfeited in 1962 from 
the Sadar Bazar area: 

Sood Litho Press Pupils’ Council, 

Delhi-6. Sadar Bazar, Delhi. 

The poster annexure ‘B’ is printed on yellow paper 
in red ink. The top-half of this poster is printed in 
Hindi and the same subject matter is repeated hi Urdu 
in the lower half. The translation of this poster is: — 

“Hero of pulse scandal Lala Kanwar Lai Gupta. 
He is coming today in your midst from the 
bath room of his Dupleix Road New Delhi 
bungalow. You should come out of your house 
to see him. Otherwise he again wants to go 
back to New Delhi soon. He is in a hurry. 
Please come to see him in the maximum 
possible numbers. 

Sham Lai, 

Secretary 

Pupils’ Council Phone No. 226492. 

(Sood Litho Press) 
Daryaganj Delhi-6, 
Pho. 274437”. 

No date of the printing of this handbill and poster 
is mentioned in the petition but during the course of 
arguments, the case set up was that both of them had 
been printed on 22nd February, 1971. As stated ear- 
lier, the petitioner served a notice dated 25th February, 
1971 (Exhibit PW. 3/1) on respondent No. 1; respon- 
dent No. 5; Sood Litho Press and Sham Lai through 
Lala Ram Gupta, Advocate (PW. 4). A copy of this 
notice was also sent to the Chief Election Commis- 
sioner, New Delhi, who received it on 27th January, 
1971 as proved by postal acknowledgement due receipt 
(Exhibit PW. 4/1). It is the case of the petitioner 
and it is also stated by Lala Ram Gupta (PW. 4) that 
a copy of the handbill annexure ‘A’ was enclosed with 
each notice. Replies to the notice were received from 
respondent No. 1 and respondent No, 5 bearing date 
9th March, 1971 but which appear to have been posted 
on 10th March, 1971. The notice (Exhibit PW. 8/1) 
was served on respondent No. 5 on 6th March, 1971 
as per acknowledgement receipt admitted by him (Ex- 
ihibit 9) but there is no clear evidence as to when the 
notice was served upon respondent No. 1 but it must 
have been before 9th March, 1971 when he sent a 
reply to this notice. Although the case of the peti- 
tioner in the arguments was that both the handbill 



the Gazette of inOia ; October 21, i 972 /asvina 29 , 1894 


[Part II— 


4514 


annexure ‘A’ and the poster annexure ‘B’ had been 
printed on 22nd February, 1971, on the basis o f the 
statement ot Chhattar Sain (PW. 56) and although the 
poster annexure U also contains statements which, 
according to the petitioner, are false, a copy of the 
poster annexure 'B' was not annexed to the said notice. 
The notice (Exhibit PW. 3/1) alleged that respondent 
Wo. 1 was a congress candidate opposing the petitioner 
and Jai Prakash Goel (respondent No. 5) and Sham 
Lai are his election agents and mcharge and working 
actively for the furtherance and the prospects of elec- 
tion ot respondent No. 1; that respondent No. 1 res- 
ponndent No. 6 and Sham Lai have issued or caused 
to issue the pamphlet annexure ‘A’ printed at Sood 
Litho Press, Lelhi containing false statements, that 
the said three persons, feeling apprehensive or almost 
sure that respondent No. 1 will not be elected in a 
fair and impartial election unless the petitioner is de- 
famed or disreputed by publishing false posters or by 
distributing false hand billa or pamphlets, have issued 
and widely circulated and distributed the said hand- 
bill containing false and defamatory statements; that 
Sood Litho Press is also civilly and criminally liable 
for printing the said hand bill which is defametory 
and circulated to bring the petitioner in low estimation 
of the electorate and voters; that all the persons whom 
the notice is addressed are civilly and criminally liable 
for the issue and wide distribution and publication of 
the handbill. The notice, therefore, called upon these 
persons to publicly denounce the issue of the poster and 
or contradict the same publicly and issue a statement 
publicly that the contents of the said poster/handbill 
or pamphlet are false and to take all steps to the said 
effect. Although there is a reference to “poster” in 
the notice, this word appears to have been used indis- 
criminately for the said handbill. By his reply (EC. 
PW 4/3) respondent No. 1 denied all the allegations 
about the issue of the handbill and so did respondent 
No. 6 by his reply (Exhibit PW. 4/2). 

I will first deal with the legal aspect of the mattor as 
to whether the statements made in Annexure ‘A’ and 
■B’ are false statements relating to the personal char- 
acter or conduct of the petitioner. I may state that 
no arguments has been addressed by respondent No. 1 
on the question that if the statements are Base and 
relate to the personal character or conduct of the 
petitioner such statements would not be reasonably cal- 
culated to prejudice tbe petitioner’s election. The 
petitioner has undoubtedly stated that the statements 
are false and it contended on his behalf that upon that 
statement having been made, the burden of proving that 
the statements are true, shifts to respondent No. 1. Reli- 
ance is placed upon 1971 (3) Supreme Court cases 303 
in re: Nepel Chandra Roy v. Netai Chandra Das and 
others where two previous decision of the Supreme 
Court reported in A.I.R. 1905 Supreme Court 077 in 
re: Sheopal Sing v. Ram Pratap and A.I.R. 1967 Supreme 
Court BO 8 in re: Kumara Nand v. Brljmohan Lai 
Sharma have been noticed. It is observed in the first 
of these cases: 


“The law on the subject is clear. Sub-section (4) 
of section 123 of the Act requires (1) that 
there should be publication of any statement 
of fact by a candidate; (2) that fact is false; 
(3) the candidate believes it to be false or 
does not believe it to be true; (4) the state- 
ment is in relation to the personal character 
or conduct of another candidate; and (5) the 
said statement is one being reasonably calcu- 
lated to prejudice the prospects of the other 
candidates’ election. The onus on an election 
petitioner under section 123 (4) of the Act Is 
to show that a statement of fact was publish- 
ed by a candidate or his agent or by any 
other person with the consent of the candidate 
or his election agent and also to show that 
the said statement was false a «d related to 
the personal character or conduct of the other 
candidate. The onus can' be discharged by the 
complaining candidate swearing to that effect. 
Once that is dons, the burden shifts to the 


candidate making- false statement ol fact to 
show what is belief was.” 

The Supreme Court did not observe In this case that 
the onus to prove that the statement is false is dis- 
charged by the complaining candidate swearing to that 
effect. It is said that this onus can be discharged by 
the complaining candidate swearing to that effect. The 
question whether onus has been discharged or not by 
a mere oath depends upon the facts and circumstances 
of the case. In Sheopal Singhs case the Supreme 
Court observed that:— 

“The burden of proof as a matter of law and as 
a matter of adducing evidence is on the party 
who seeks to get the election set aside, to 
establish corrupt practice; but, if he adduces 
sufficient evidence, the burden of adducing 
evidence shifts on to the other party. That 
apart when the entire evidence has been 
adduced in the case the question of ur- 
den of proof becomes merely academical”. 


That question of burden of proof on a complaining 
candidate under section 123(4) of the Act has been 
expressed by the Supreme Court in Kumara Nand’s 
case In these words: — 

“So the main onus on an election, petitioner under 
Section 123(4) is to show that a statement of 
fact was published by a candidate or his agent 
or by any other person with the consent of 
the candidate or his election agent and also 
to show that that statement was false and 
related to his personal character or conduct. 
Once that is proved and the complaining candi- 
date has sworn os above indicated, the burden 
shifts to the candidate making the false stuie- 
ment of fact to show what hls belief was. Tbe 
further question as to prejudice to the pros- 
pects of election is generally a matter of in- 
ference to be arrived at by the tribunal on 
the facts and circumstances of each case”. 


It Is therefore, clear that the entire burden to prove 
that the impugned statement is false Is upon the peti- 
tioner and, depending upon the facts of the case, It 
cun be discharged by a mere oath of the petitioner 
himself. 


It Is contended on behalf of respondent No. 1 that 
in the present case it is not enough for the petitioner 
to establish the falsity of the impugned statements by 
his mere oath because, being a question relating to 
which documentary evidence would exist, he should- 
further have brought that documentary evidence before 
the Court. It Is true that Kula Nand Bharti iRlW.4) 
one of the witnesses of respondent No. 1 stated in 
cross-examination on 8th February, 1972, that the 
statements against the petitioner are false but he 
again said that he had never seen this pamphlet and 
he had no knowledge about the correctness or other- 
wise of its contents. He then says that the statements 
against the petitioner In the poster annexure ‘B’ are 
false but I do not think the petitioner can rely upon 
this sort of a statement to show that coupled with his 
own oath he has discharged the burden of proving 
that the impugned statements are false. Apart from 
the petitioner, his other witnesses like La.a Ram 
Gupta (PW 4): Madan Lai Khurana (PW. 0); Inder 
Mohan Bhardwaj (PW. 30); G.L. Rawul (PW 35); 
Dharam Parkash Khosla (PW. 48) and Som Dev Arya 
(PW 62) have also stated that the statements are 
false.’ There statements constitute only oral evidence 
of the parties. In addition the petitioner Uled the 
report of proceedings in Parliament (Ex. PW. 57/P) 
relating to what may be described as the Dal affmr 
and it is with reference to what Is contained in this 
report and other evidence on the record that It has 
been contended by the petitioner that the statements 
In the pamphlet and the poster (Annexure A and 
annuexure ‘B’ respectively) are false. 

Let me firsV take the statements in the headline 
annexure ‘A’. The first statement in the headline of 
this handbill means that the petitioner has taken a 



Sec. 3(ii;] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINa 2“ 1894 


4515 


contract of Dal for self (Khud). It Is not disputed 
by the petitioner that he was elected to Parliament in 
February, 1987. His family firm Bhujan Mai Kundan 
Lai, which is a dealer in pulse, had been given pulse 
contracts for the first time in April, 1967, as admitted 
by him in his cross examination on 1st February, 
1972. The question is whether the word ‘self (Lendl 
means that the contract jvas taken by him in his own 
name or docs it include a contract taken in the name 
of his brothers on this family firm of which, according 
to him he is not a partner but of which, according to 
respondent No. 1, he continues to be a benami partner. 
In his statement on 25th January, 1972, the petitioner 
admitted that the firm Bhujan Mai Kundan Lai was 
started by his grat-id-father Bhujan Mai and it continu- 
ed even in his father’s life time. He further admits 
that he was a partner in this firm in his father’s life 
time aiongwith his brothers upto 1954 or 1955 but Itit 
it in 1954. He feigns ignorance of the fact whether 
the firm was a joint Hindu family firm prior to his 
joining it but he admits that a partnership deed v, as 
executed when he became a partner of this firm. He 
further states that there were 6 partners in Lhis firm, 
namely, himself and his five brothers having equal 
shares. Then he states that a deed of dissolution was 
executed when he separated from this firm. He denied 
the suggestion that this deed of dissolution hacl been 
executed because as a practioner on the Indome-lax 
side he did not want to show his name as a partner of 
.the firm. 

Even if the petitioner was not a partner of 
the firm at the relevant time his Interest in and con- 
1, nertion with the firm is established by the fact that 
the offices of both are in the same building adjoining 
each other and that until two years back he was using 
the telephone of this firm. The petitioner admitted 
that when he was a Member of Parliament in l .*87, 
he had intimated to the Parliament Secretariat that his 
office telephone number was 226568 which is the tele- 
phone number of this firm. Then he admits that even 
after dissolution he had some deposits in the firm 
and it is proved on the record that this firm has depo- 
sits in the name of his wife and daughter which 
have been increasing in terms of thousands year alter 
year— the suggestion of respondent No. 1 being that 
the amounts of increase in the deposits represem the 
petitioner’s share in the profits of this firm. Bhani 
Ram Gupta, brother of the petitioner who is admitted- 
ly a partner of this firm has not been produced nor 
has any other, partner of this firm been produced to 
support the petitioner. After all, the firm is a family 
firm which had been started by the grand-father of the 
petitioner and to an outsider it would appear as if 
the petitioner also had continued as a partner oi this 
firm. If the petitioner continues to be a partner ol 
tills firm even though benami the use of the 
aforesaid word ‘self’ would not be a false statement 
but even if in fact the petitioner had ceased to be a 
partner of the firm, his brothers and other members 
of the family admittedly continued the firm and it still 
remains a family firm. Further, the petitioner has 
admitted in his statement on 1st February, 1972, that 
he and some of his brothers and nephews are livira 
jointly in the house at 44-E, Kamla Najjar. which is 
owned by all the six brothers. Now, if a person is 
contesting an election and a contract was obtained ir. 
the name of his brother or his son or any other close 
relation when such relations are living with him joint- 
ly, it would not be a false statement to sav that C uch 
a person had obtained the contract for ‘self’ (KHUd). 

A word ‘Self’ Is comprehensive enough to include bis 
brothers and other memhers of the family who con- 
stltue the firm. In my opinion, the use of the word 
‘self’ cannot be said to be a false statement. 

Then the pamphlet goes on to say that the petitioner 
got contracts worth lacs of rupees for his brothers. 
Bhani Ram Gupta or any other partner of the firm 
has not been produced to deny that the petition? ' had 
got these pulse contracts for this firm although Bhani 
Ram Gupta Is mentioned at item No. 94 in the list of 


witnesses filed by the petitioner. Further the con- 
tracts given to this firm have not been got produced 
by summoning them from the Department concerned 
and for that reason, a suggestion has been made on 
behalf of respondent No. 1 that if the files relating to 
these contracts were available in Court, there would 
have been found some connection between the peti- 
tioner and the procurement of these contracts. The 
statement that the contracts were worth lacs of rupees 
is true as the petitioner, in his statement on 1st Fsuru- 
ary, 1972, admits that the contracts of Dal Lhat his 
brothers had were worth lacs. 

The statement in this handbill that the pulse was 
adultorated (Sari-Gali) is said to be proved by the pro- 
ceedings of Parliament Exhibit PW. 57/1-A. the 
heading of the short notice question pertaining to 
these contracts is “supply ot sub-standard Foodgrains 
lor Defence Consumption.”. The petitioner contends 
that “sub-standard” means “not according to the 
specifications of the contract” but it .is difficult for me 
to accept the contention that "sub-standard" cannot 
include adulterated. This heading clearly indicates 
that the subject matter of discussion in Parliament 
waa the supply of sub-standard foodgrains for Defence 
consumption by the said firm. In answer to one of the 
question, it is stated that out of a total quantity of 
962 tons of Dal and 184 tons of barley supplied by 
this firm from April, 1967 onwards, 18 tons of Dal and 
28 tons ol bareley had to be rejected as they did not 
conform to the specifications laid down in the contracts. 
The quantity of rejection is considerable and the fact 
remains lhat the rejection was on the ground that the 
Dal tendered did not conform to the specifications. I 
do not see why it cannot be said with any measure 
of truth that the Dal supplied to the extent of rejection 
was adulterated. The substance of the proceedings of 
Parliament relating to this affair was published in 
various newspapers. Responsible members of Parlia- 
ment appear from the proceedings to have stated that 
there was a calculated attempt to defraud the country’s 
exchaquer to the tune of at least Rs. 52 lacs In a total 
purchase of Rs. 1,88,50,000. It is further stated that 
it is not only the country which has been defrauded 
in money but the health of the troops would have been 
seriously jeopardized because the pulse supplied was 
completely moth-eaten and worm-eaten and that it 
was a serious anti-national act. — While talking of Fhi s 
firm and Bhani Ram Gupta, there are questions refer 
ring to petitioner as a brother of Bhani Ram Gupta. 
In fact, there are suggestions to black-list this firm 
and to institute an enquiry through the Central Bureau 
of investigation, It cannot, therefore, be said that 
any of the aforesaid statements is false. 

Then objection is raised to the description of the peti- 
tioner us an “opportunist". This description of the 
petitioner is justified as true on the petitioner is justifi- 
ed as ture on the basis of the statement of the peti- 
tioner on 25th January, 1972 that,: — 

“I remained a member of the Delhi Legisla- 
tive Assembly till 1957. When its term expir- 
ed I did not continue after 1957. The Jan 
Sangh contested the 1958 elections to the Muni- 
cipal Corporation. I had left the Jana Sanah 
in 1955. I did not apply to the Jana Sangh 
for p ticket of Corporation elections in 958. 

1 did not apply for the Jana Sangh ticket in 
the 1962 elections to the Parliament and there 
is, therefore, no question of their refusing me 
the ticket. I contested the 1962 Parliamen- 
tary elections as an independent. I lost ibis 
election and my security was forfeited. There 
was a Jana Sangh as Well as a Congress candi- 
date against me in 1962 elections. I ulso con- 
tested the 1962 elections to the Corporation as 
an Independent candidate. In this election also 
there was a Congress as well as a Jana Sangh 
candidate. I did not think of joining the 
Jana Sangh even then, I was approached by 
the Jana Sangh. In 1963, the Jana Sangh 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASV1NA 29, 1894 


[Part II — 


4516 


asked me to join it. I said, I will see how 
the Jana Sangh functions and then I will con- 
sider the question of Joining it. I joined the 
Jana Sangh in 1965 on my being asked repea- 
tedly and on my being satisfied”. 

In the context in which the word “opportunist” has been 
used, it does not refer to the personal character and it 
is clear from the afore-quoted statement that the neti- 
tioner has been changing his political loyalities from 
time to time in contesting various elections. The 
statement that he is an “opportunist” cannot be said 
to be false or to relate to his personal character. 

Then comes the statement in the handbill that the 
petitioner who tried to feed adulterated (Sari-Gall) 

S ulse to our Army and about whom the screen was 
fted in Parliament in 1970 should not be sent to 
Parliament in 1971. If my construction of the word 
‘self’ be correct then, the statement that it was the 
petitioner who tried to feed adulterated pulse to the 
Army cannot be said to be a false statement. That 
there was a discussion in a Parliament about the pulse 
supplied by the firm of the petitioner’s brothers is 
proved by the proceeding Exhibit PW. 57/1. The use 
of the word “exposed” is merely rely an exaggeration 
of what happened in Parliament. In my opinion, even 
if it Is an exaggeration, the statement cannot be said 
to be false. 

The principles which govern the construction of pam- 
phlets or leaflets or posters issued by persons at the 
time of elections are well settled. The view of the 
Supreme Court in (1964) 7-S.C.Jt 790 in re: Kultar 
singh v. Mukhtiar Singh was expressed in thesfe 
words:-— 

“The document must be read as a whole and its 
purport and effect determined In a fair, objec- 
tive and reasonable manner. In reading such 
document It would be unrealistic to ignore the 
fact that when election meetings are held and 
appeals are made by candidates of opposing 
political parties, the atmosphere is usually 
surcharged with partisan feelings and emotions 
and the use of hyperboles or exaggerated 
language, or the adoption of metaphors, and 
the extravagance of expression in attacking 
one another, are all a part of the game, and 
so, when the question about the effect of 
speeches delivered or pamphlets distributed at 
election meetings Is argued in the cold atmos- 
phere of a judicial chamber, some allowance 
must be made and the Impugned speeches of 
pamphlets must be construed in that light. In 
doing so, however, it would be unreasonable 
to ignore the question as to what the effect of 
the said speeches or pamphlet would be on the 
mind of the ordinary voter who attend such 
meetings and reads the pamphlets or hears 
the speeches.” 

These observations were accepted in the subsequent 
decision of the Supreme Court reported in A.I.R, 1970 
Supreme Court 1231 in re: Dev Kanta Barooah v. Golok 
Chandra Baruah and others and it was observed that 
though the words used may be harsh they would not 
be such as to lead the voters to think that the com- 
plaining candidates had a low moral character. With 
regard to the attack against the personal character of 
the complaining candidate, the Supreme Court cited 
the following passage from a decision of Darling J in 
Cumberland (Coekermouth Division) case (1901) 6 O. 
M and H 155: — . ' ’ 

"You must not make or publish any false state- 
ment of fact in relation to the personal 
character or conduct of a candidate; if you 
do, It is an illegal practice. It Is not an 
offence to say something which may be severe 
about another person nor which may be un- 
justiflcable nor which may be derogatory un- 
less it amounts to a false statement of fact in 


relation to the personal character or conduct 
of such candidate; there is a great distinction 
to be drawn between a false statement of fact 
which affects the personal character or conduct 
of a candidate and a false statement of fact 
which deals with the political position or repu- 
tation or action of the candidate. If that were 
not kept in mind, this statute would simply 
have prohibited at election times all sorts of 
criticism which was not strictly true relation 
to the political behaviour and opinions of the 
candidate. That is why it carefully provides 
that the false statement, in order to be an 
illegal practice, must relate to the personal 
character and personal conduct”. 

It is noticed in Dev Kanta Barooah’s case that this 
passage was quoted with approval in the Supreme Court 
decision reported in (1969) i Supreme Court Cases 82 
in re: Guruli Shrihari Baliram Jiyatode v. Vithalrao 
and it was observed “that a false statement of fact, 
which deals with the political position or reputation 
or action of a cahdldate, cannot be held to be a corrupt 
practice.” The Supreme Court also referred to 
its decision reported in 1962 (3) Supp. S.C.R. 114 in 
re: Inder Lai v. Lai Singh and observed that false 
imputations against only the personal character of the 
compaining candidate are hit by section 123(4) of the 
Act. In other words, it is only the "man beneath the 
politician ’ who is protected and if any statements are 
made with regard to the political character of the com- ' 
plaining candidate, they will not be hit by the afore- 
said section, in Dev Kanta Barooah's case the Supreme 
Court observed that exaggeration is also permissible. 

.»? 0 T summarise my findings on the handbill annexure 
A, I am of the view, — 

(1) the statement that contract of Dal was for 
self cannot be said to be a false statement; 

(2) the statement that the petitioner got contracts 
worth lacs of rupees for his brothers is not a 
false statement in respect of the value of the 
contracts and the petitioner has failed to dis- 
charge the onus of proving that the statement 
that he got contracts for his brothers is a false 
statement; 

(3) the statement that the Dal supplied was adul- 
terated (Sarl-Gali) is not a false statement. 

(4) the statement that the petitioner is an oppor- 
tunist relates to his political character and can- 
not be said to be a false statement as to his 
personal character, and 

(5) the statement that the petitioner who tried 
to feed adulterated (Sari-Gall) pulse to our 
Army and about whom the screen was lifted 
in Parliament in 1970 cannot be said to be a 
false statement. 

Therefore, the handbill annexure ‘A’ is not hit bv 
section 123(4) of the Act- y 

Then I come to the poster annexure ‘B’. This poster 
V s J t°„ b ^, constru . ed independently of the aforesaid 
handbill. The heading of the poster describes the peti- 
tioner as the hero of pulse scandal and his middle 
name is stated to be "Dal” instead of " Lai ”. Now 
“Scandal” means "a circumstance or action that offends 
properl ety or established moral conceptions or dis- 
graces those associated with or involved in it” accord^ 
mg to Webster’s Third New International Dictionary, 
in view of the proceedings of Parliament Exhibit Pw. 
' J 7/l, it cannot be disputed that there was a scandal 
attached to the supply of pulses by the Arm of the peti- 
tioner s brothers to the Army. The statement describ- 
ing the petitioner as the hero of the scandal may be 
an exaggeration because there is no doubt that the 
name of one of his brothers Bhani flam Gupta and 
of the firm was mentioned in the proceedings in Par- 
liament as the supplier of pulses but the connection of 
the petitioner with them was also alleged. It cannot,. 



Src. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 20 , 1894 


4517 


therefore, be said that the petitioner was not concern- 
ed at all with the aforesaid scandal. Apart from the 
petitioner was a sitting member of Parliament from 
the erstwhile Sadar Parliamentary Constituency and 
the implication is that he misused this position. It 
would not be incorrect to say that his description as 
the hero of the scandal really relates to his political 
character rather than to his personal character as he 
was involved in the scandal in his capacity as a poli- 
tician. The misdescription of the middle name of the 
petitioner is really only a misdescription and cannot be 
said to be an attack against his personal character. 
This misdescription may even be indecent or improper 
but that would also not be hit by section 123(4) of the 
Act. The other statements In the poster about the 
petitioner coming from the bath room of his Dupleix 
Road Bungalow and urging the people to take hls 
Darshan before he goes back, can by no stretch of 
imagination be said to be an attack against the perso- 
nal character of the petitioner, These statements may 
be ironical; satirical or even Indecent but that is not 
sufficient to make these statements to be false state- 
ments relating to the personal character of the peti- 
tioner. No part of the poster annexure ‘B' can be said 
to be hit by section 122(4) of the Act. 

This conclusion would really be enough to dispose 
of the petition but in view of the fact that the peti- 
tioner has a right to appeal to the Supreme Court, I 
-•will deal with the other contentions which remains to 
be dealt with under section 113(4) of the Act. 

The next' connected question is about the printing of 
annexure ‘A’ and annexure ‘B’. Both respondent No. 1 
and respondent No. 5 have denied having any hand in 
the printing of this handbill and poster. It may be 
restated that the case of the petitioner is that both 
the handbill and the poster had been printed at the 
Sood Litho Press as the Press-line thereon Indicates. 
His further case Is that the persons responsible for Its 
printing were respondent No. 1; Dr. Roshan Lai (RIW. 
34) hls election agent; respondent No. 5; Sham Lai and 
Sood Litho Press, There is no evidence whatsoever 
to connect printing of the handbill and poster afine- 
xures A and B with Dr. Roshan Lai (RIW. 34). So far 
as Sham Lai is concerned, bis name does not appear 
on the. handbill annexure ‘A’ though his name appears 
on the poster annexure ‘B’ as the Secretary of the 
People’s Council. The poster annexure ‘B’ which 
carries the name of Sham Lai is not mentioned in the 
notice Exhibit PW.3/1 served by Lala Ram Gupta, 
Advocate (PW.4) on behalf of the petitioner. The case 
of printing was improved in the better particulars to 
suggest that the printing had been done not only at 
Sood Litho Press but also at Sarvdeshik Press and 
other presses. The case that such printing had been 
done at other presses was also abandoned at the hear- 
ing because even Babu Ram Sharma (PW.ll) and 
Chatter Sain (PW.55) belonging to the Sarvdeshik Press 
did not own the printing of the said handbill and 
poster. Sham Lai has not been produced as a wit- 
ness. 

Taufeeq Farooqi (PW.2), manager of the Sood Litho 
Press, was examined by the petitioner himself. He 
denies that the handbill annexure ‘A’ or the poster 
annexure ‘B’ were printed at his press even though 
he saw the name and telephone number of his press 
printed on these documents. He states that a reply 
to the notice served by Lala Ram Gupta (PW.4) had 
been sent but this reply has not been proved. This 
witness was allowed to be cross-examined by the peti- 
tioner under section 164 of the Indian Evidence Act 
and. in cross-examination, his affidavit dated 17th 
August, 1971 (Exhibit P.l) was shown to him. Ob- 
jection was raised on behalf of respondent No. 1 about 
the affidavit being exhibited on the ground that the 
petitioner cannot contradict his own witness. It Is 
not necessary to deal with this objection because no 
reliance can be placed on the statement in the affidavit 
which was obtained during the pendency of the peti- 
tion particularly when, according to the petitioner 


himself, the witness was unreliable. Even the affida- 
vit merely mentions the names of respondent No. 1 
and respondent No. 5 are not the names either of 
Dr. Roshan Lai (RIW.34) or Sham Lai. In the faco 
of the categoric denial of this witness about the print- 
ing of the handbill and the poster in the Sood Litho 
Press and the absence of any records of this press re- 
lating to such alleged printing, no reliance can be 
placed upon his statement in the affidavit Exhibit P.l 
that these were printed at the Sood Litho Press. 

Babu Ram Sharma (P.W.ll) is manager of the 
Sarvdeshik Press which is stated to be adjacent to 
the Sood Litho Press. He states that he saw hand- 
bills like annexure ‘A’ to the petition being printed at 
Sood Litho Press In sets of four and he saw six reams 
of paper which had been printed at Sood Litho Press 
which will make about 12.000 pamphlets like annexure 
‘A’. He also states that he saw posters being printed 
at Sood Litho Press whose contents had not been read 
by him. Council for the petitioner then wanted to 
put the poster annexure ‘B’ to this witness to ascertain 
whether it had been printed at Sood Litho Press but 
in view of the answer of the witness, the question 
was disallowed. In any case this witness categorically 
staled that no part of annexure ‘B’ had been printed 
at the Sarvdeshik Press. In cross-examination he gave 
the explanation that he saw the printing being done 
in Sood Litho Press because for performing his duties 
he had to go out of the press also. It is difficult for 
me to see why this witness should have gone to the 
Sood Litho Press for going out of hls press when there 
is a room in between the two. Hls statement is un- 
impressive and exaggerated and has been rejected by 
me already in connection with the printing of pam- 
phlets Exhibits PW.J1/1 to PW.11/8. Then, Chatter 
Sain (PW.55) also of the Sarvdeshik Press states that 
on 22nd February, 1971 he had gone to Sood Litho 
Press in the afternoon at about 3,00 P.M. because he 
had to take delivery of a poster which he had given 
to them for printing and that when he went there he 
saw posters being printed and lying on the ground. 
He alleges that he had a look at the poster annexure 
‘B’ and asked Aggarwal (meaning the proprietor of the 
Sood Litho Press) as to why a proof mistake had ap- 
peared In the poster that he saw— the proof mistake 
being that instead of the word ‘Lai’ in the name of the 
petitioner, the words ‘Dal’ had appeared in this poster. 
He then identified the poster annexure ‘B’ and further 
explained that Aggarwal told him that there was no 
mistake in proof reading and also showed him the 
pamphlet annexure ‘A’ to the petition. This witness 
seems to have been well prepared for the cross-exa- 
mination because on being asked, in cross-examina- 
tion on 2 1st January 1972, about the poster, for which 
he had gone to Sood Litho Press he took out a poster 
from his pocket which was marked as Exhibit P.W. 
55/7. He denied the suggestion that the poster Exhi- 
bit PW.5507 had been printed at Sarvdeshik Press for 
the purpose. Although the witness deposed to the 
subject matter of the pamphlet and poster (annexure 
‘A’ and ’B’), his memory about the subject matter of 
other printed material which he saw at Sood Litho 
Press failed. He first admitted that he had gone to 
Sood Litho Press onltf in connection with the print- 
ing of poster Exhibit PW.55/7 but again said that he 
had been to this press several times as it was on his 
way. The testimony of this witness also has been 
rejected by me in connection with the printing of the 
pamphlets Exhibit PW.11/1 to Exhibit PW.11/8. He 
appears to be a witness who is definitely interested 
in the petitioner and his oral statement even with the 
oral statement of Babu Ram Sharma (PW.ll) cannot 
conclusively prove that the pamphlet annexure ‘A and 
the poster .annexure ‘B’ were printed at Sood Litho 
Press. It may be emphasised that no declaration of 
Sood Litho Press under se 9 tion 127-A of the Act has 
been proved with respect to pamphlet annexure *A 
and the poster annexure ‘B’. Most important is tho 
fact that Avtar Krishan Aggarwal who is the proprle 
tor of the Sood Litho Press has not been produced by 
the petitioner. In the face of the denial of respondent 



4518 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASV1NA 29, 1894 [Pari II— 


No. 1 and respondent No. 5 and because of the im- 
provement by the peitioner in his case with regard 
to the persons and presses responsible lor the print- 
ing of these two doctrtn^hlS" x have to come to the 
conclusion that no reliable evidence has been produced 
to prove that respondent No. 1 and respondent No. 5 
were responsible for the printing of the pamphlets 
annexure ‘A’ or the poster annexure ‘B‘ as alleged. 

Further, stated earlier, Sham Eal has also not been 
produced altogether a copy of the notice Exhibit PW. 
3/1 with a copy of the pamph.et annexure ‘A’ was 
served upon him. In his cross-examination on 25th 
January 1972, the petitioner stated that he had given 
the name of Sham Lai to Lala Ram Gupta, Advocate 
(PW. 4) as his name was printed on the pamphlet 
annexure ‘A’. This is factually incorrect as the name 
name of Sham Lai appears on the poster annexure 
'B' but not on the pamphlet annexure *A\ That a 
person by the name of Sham Lai exists is admitted 
by the petitioner in his cross-examination on 1st 
February, 1972, because he states that he knew Sham 
Lai for a large number of years and met him during 
the election days in connection with annexures ‘A’ 
and ‘B’. He further states that he had met Sham Lai 
before he met his advocate, Lala Ram Gupta (PW. 4). 
He also admits that Sham Lai had issued some other 
handbll s against him and some in favour of respon- 
dent No. 1 earlier and, therefore, he connected Sham 
Lai with the pamphlet annexure iA’. He admit that 
there was a quarrel between his nephew Ram Bhagat 
and Sham Lai which resulted ip a report by Ram 
Bhagat against Sham Lai. The petitioner has asserted 
that he has no enmity with Sham Lai who carries on 
business in cotton and foodgrains, In spite of all this, 
Sham Lai was not even attempted to be produced in 
evidence and it Is no justification for his non-produc- 
tion to say that he would have deposed against t .e 
petitioner if he had appeared as a witness. Whatever 
be the position, the onus of proving that the pamphlet 
annexure ‘A’ and the poster annexure ‘B’ were got 
printed by respondent No. 1 is upon the petitioner. 
In my view, the petitioner has failed’ to discharge 
his opus and it cannot, therefore, be held that respon- 
dent No. 1 had any hand in the printing of the pam- 
phlet. annexure ‘A’ or the poster annexure ‘B\ It 
is not necessary to give a finding as to whether these 
two documents were printed by Sham Lai because 
there is no evidence that he acted with the consent 
of respondent No. 1 or his election agent. 

So far as respondent No. 5 is concerned, the peti- 
tioner's case that the former was the counting agent 
of the latter has not been proved. Nor has it been 
proved that respondent No. 5, even if he got pamph- 
let annexure ‘A’ and poster annexure ‘B' printed, got 
them printed or published with the conset of respon- 
dent No. 1 or his election agent. The petitioner has 
stated in Court on 24th January, 1972, that his family 
and the family of respondent No. 5 have had strain- 
ed relations from the time of his grand-father and 
such strained relations continued so much so that res- 
pondent No. 5 has been sending letters of complaint 
against him and his family to the authorities. It is 
contended that the so-called progressive party of res- 
pondent No. 5 backed the Congress and, therefore. 
respondent No. 1 in this election and this is proved 
by the report of A. K. Sen (PW. 36) who wrote the 
article Fjxhibit. PW. 36/1 published In the Hindustan 
Times.. Respondent No. I has denied that respon- 
dent No. 5 was his agent, or acFive worker. There is 
no evidence to show that respondent No. 1 or his 
election agent had given their consent to respondent 
No. 5 to publish any statements as are eontempated 
by section 123(4) of the Act. It is true that admit- 
tedly .respondent 1 No. 5 spoke at two meetings in 
support of respondent No. 1 but that cannot amount 
to consent within the meaning of section 123(4) of 
the Act. There has been considerable cross-examina- 
tion of the petitioner on 3rd February, 1972, by res- 
pondent No. 5 as to business rivalry between the firm 
of petitioner's brothers and respondent No. 5 but even 


if such rivalry or even enmity is taken as proved, the 
connection of respondent No. 5 with the pamphlet 
unnexurc ‘A’ or the poster annexure ‘B’ has not been 
proved. The only document in which the name of 
xespondent No. 5 appears with the name of respon- 
dent No. 1 is the bill (Exhibit PW. 2/1) for Rs. 54 
which has been rejected by me already as having 
any connection with respondent No. 1. The allegation 
that respondent No, 5 was responsible for the printing 
of pamphlet annexure ‘A’ or the poster annexure ‘B 
also remains unproved. 

Then I come to the question whether statements 
such as are mentioned in the aforesaid two documents 
were repeated by respondent No. 1 and respondent 
No. 5 in public meeting. Madan Lai Khurana (P.W, 
10) has stated that on 1st March, 1971, while he was 
sitting his office in Chowk Chhe Tooli he heared res- 
pondent No. 1 and respondent No, 5 speaking at a 
meeting where they said that the petitioner had taken 
Dal Thekas and had looted the public; that the Dal 
which was supplied was adulterated although It was 
meant for the Army which is for the defence of the 
country and that the petitioner was like a traitor to 
the country. I have already disbelieved this witness 
with regard to this meeting because he alleges that 
he heard all this sitting inside his office which was 
at a distance of about 150 to 200 yards from the place 
of the meeting. In the face of denial of respondent 
No. 1 and respondent No. 5 and absence of corrobora- 
tion as to what was said at this alleged meeting, the 
alleged speeches of respondent No, t and respondent 
No. 5 cannot be said to have been proved, It is not 
necessary to go in detail into the testimony of other 
witnesses of the petitioner who have spoken about 
similar speeches at other meetings but I will merely 
mention them. They are Joglnder Nath Kapur (PW. 
14); Nand Kishore (PE, 22); Kundan Lai (PW. 27): 
Krlshan Lai (PW. 29); Inder Mohan Bhardwaj (PW. 
30); Satyu Pal Chugh (PW. 34 »; G. L. Rawal (PW. 
35); S. D. Arya (PW. 52) and the petitioner himself. 
The evidence of all these witnesses, as has been dis- 
cussed by me already in the context of other points 
is of persons interested in the petitioner who have 
been disbelived by me in material particulers either 
with regard to the alleged dates and places of the 
meetings Or the furnishings at these meetings. It is 
surprising that although such sweeping and, accord- 
ing to the petitioner, defamatory statements were made 
by respondent No. 1 and respondent No. 5 in meetings, 
the petitioner has not been able to produce any inde- 
pendent testimony and has had to rely upon the testi- 
mony of his own party people and workers who could 
not he expected to have attended meetings of respon- 
dent No. 1 when they must themselves have been busy 
in the election campaign of the petitioner. Such bare 
oral testimony cannot be relied upon for privlng thp 
corrupt practice of publication which is in the nature 
of a criminal charge. I may only add that not even 
an attempt was made by the petitioner to Introduce 
alleged tape records of speeches containing such state- 
ments. 

The same remarks will apply to the testimony of 
witnesses with respect to the pamphlet annexure ‘A’ 
and the poster annexure ‘B' being pasted throughout 
the constituency. In any case the pasting and publi- 
cation by pasting of these two documents throughout 
the constituency has not been brought home to res- 
pondent No. 1 or respondent No. 5. If any other 
persons who were interested against the petitioner 
had done so, the consequence cannot fall upon the 
head of respondent No. 1. 

Then there is evidence of alleged distribution of the 
pamphlet annexure ‘A’ throughout the constituency hy 
respondent No. 1 and respondent No. 5 by almost the 
very same witnesses and for the same reasons thetr 
testimony cannot bo relied upon. There are only two 
witnsess whose testimony need be discussed lii this 
behalf. The first is G. L. Rawal (PW. 35), who' as 
stated earlier, is an Advocate. He states that on 24th 



THE GAZETTE OF 1NDTA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/A5VINA 29, 1894 


4519 


S. 2 . 3(h)] 


or 25th February, 1971, he saw respondent No. 1; Dr. 
Roshan Eal (R1W. 34) and respondent No. 5 distribut- 
ing pamphlets like annexure ‘A’ m the lane where 
he was living. He states that Dr. Roshan Lai (R1W. 
34; came to his house and handed over a pamphlet 
Jke annexure ’A’ to him saying “look at the conduct 
ot the candidate tor whom you arc working." lie 
states that such pamphlets were also seen by him in 
the hands ot respondent No, 1 and other workers. 
Then he identifies the poster annexure PW. 10/1 
which was alleged to have been brought out by the 
Jana Sangh in answer to the pamphlet annexure A 
and the poster annexure ‘B’ on or about 28th Febru- 
ary, 1971, Admittedly, he has been a member ot the 
Jana Sangh tor about 18 to 20 years. In cross- 
examination he improved his statement by stating that 
in the meeting in Ahata Kidara Chowk, Dr, Roshan 
Lai (RlW. 34) also talked about the Dal Scandal, He 
has spoken about various posters, handbills, pamph- 
lets and booklets which were alleged to have been 
published by respondent No. 1. He was cross-examin- 
ed with regard to their contents but after giving the 
bare contents of some of them his memory failed. He 
is alleged to have talked about the pamphlet annexure 
‘A’ with the petitioner and Joginder Jain who was the 
Secretary of the Jana Sangh and who has not been 
produced. I 11 my view, the non-production of Jugin- 
der Jain makes the statement of this witness doubtful. 
Joginder .Tain would have been a most important 
witness because he would have deposed not only about 
the exact time when annexure ‘A’ and/or annexure 
‘B’ to the petition were brought to his notice but also 
about the steps that he is alleged to have taken tor 
contradicting the statements made therein. A sugges- 
tion was made on behalt ol respondent No. 1, that the 
poster Exhibit PW. 10/1 was brought into existence 
after the filing of the petition. In view ot the fact 
that the issuance of this poster before the day of pol- 
ling would have been a very important factor to 
determine when annexure 'A' and annexure B had 
come into existence and in further view of the iaci 
that this poster is not even mentioned in the petition, 
the suggestion of respondent No. 1 cannot be said to 
be without foundation. 


According to the petitioner, annexures ‘A' and - B’ 
to the petition contain serious allegation against his 
personal character which wore likely to affect the 
result of his election. Steps taken by his party 
through Joginder Jain or other persons would have 
been important steps to prove the existence of the 
impugned pamph’.ejt and poster. Tli^re is consider- 
able lacuna in the evidence of the petitioner on this 
aspect of the matter. I cannot, therefore, rely upon 
the mere oral statement ol G. L. Rawal (PE. 35) to 
come to the conclusion that respondent No. 1 or Dr. 
Roshan Lai (RlW. 341 had given the pamphlet an- 
nexure ‘A’ to him particularly in the fact of denial 
of these two persons, 

Then I come to the statement to U. P. Khosla (P.W. 
48) who Is practising as a Chartered Accountant and 
who admittedly belongs to the same association of 
Income-tax practioners to which the petitioner be- 
longs. He al’eges that he is not a member of any politi- 
cal' party but yet almost after one year he remem- 
bers the dale (25th February, 1971) on which respon- 
dent No 1 came on a round in his area. This witness 
states that he was standing outside his house in the 
street where he lives when respondent No. 1 accom- 
panied by 8 or 10 persons came there at 7.30 or 
8 00 A.M and gave him the pamphlet annexure ’A . 
lie further alleges that respondent No. 1 told him 
that the petitioner was not a good man as he indulged 
in such activities as are mentioned in the pamphlet. 
This witness also talks about the poster annexure ‘B\ 
Then he states that alter a few days, the petitioner 
hod gone to the street of this witness and h- asked 
the petitioner about what had been stated in annexures 
‘A’ and ‘B' on which the petitioner replied that the 
statements were false. In cross-examination, he de- 
poses to seeing four or five types of posters issue, 1 hr 


the Congress and four or live types of posters issued 
by the Jana Snath and does not depose to having 
seen any handbill other than the handbill like an- 
nexure A'. To this extent his testimony contradicts 
the testimony of many other witnesses oi the peti- 
tioner and the petitioner himself who state that there 
were numerous types of handbills and posters which 
had been pasted or distributed in the entire consti- 
tuency. Although he spoke about the contents of 
annexures ‘A’ and ‘B’ to the petitioner, his memory 
failed when he was asked about the contents of other 
posters. He admits that when he was told by respon- 
dent No. I that the petitioner was not a good man,, 
he did not reply back to say that whatever was stated 
in Annexure ’A' was wrong. The evidence of this 
witness is merely oral. He cannot be said to be com- 
pletely disinterested in the petitioner even though he 
asserts that he has no friendly relations with him. 
1 cannot, therefore, reply upon his testimony to give 
a finding that respondent No. 1 handed over to him 
the pamphlet annexure ‘A’ or had uttered the words 
attributed to him. 

Although the evidence of partisan witnesses is 
evidence under the Indian Evidence Act, in election 
petitions it would not be safe to rely upon such 
evidence if any allegations made against the returned 
candidate are denied by him. An e.ection concerns 
the entire constituency and in this particular con- 
stituency there were more than 2 lacs vote.,.,. It is, 
therefore, surprising that the petitioner was not able 
to prove the allegations with regard to distribution; 
pasting; oral publicity and other matters alleged by 
him by adducing evidence of independent witnesses. 
It cannot be that every persons in the constituency 
belonged either to the Congress or to the Jana Sungh, 
The allegations with regard to these matters are so 
sweeping that a person belonging to another political 
party or not belonging to any political party would 
be blind if he could not see that mass of posters, 
handbills etc., which must have been exhibited in the 
entire constituency if the petitioner and his witnesses 
are to be believed. There is no independent testimony 
worth the name and, therefore, I feel it most unsafe 
to give a finding in favour ol the petitioner with re- 
gard to any of these matters. 

In view ol these conclusions, the petitioner must 
fail on Issues Nos. 8 and 9 and consequentially also 
on Issue No. 14 relating to any orders that may be 
required to be passed against respondent No. 5 under 
section 99(1) of the Act. 

In the result, this petition fails and is dismissed 
with costs. The costs are assessed at Rs. 2,500. 

May, 19, 1972. 


Sd./- S. N. Andley, 
Chief Justice, 

[No. 82/2/DL/71.] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 30 th August 1972 

S.O. 3187 .— Whereas the Election Commission is sa- 
tisfied that Shri S, Palaniappan S]o Shri Sengodan, 
Varakoorampatti Village, Elampalayampaiayam, Tiru- 
chengode Taluk, Salem District, a contesting candidate 
for election to the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly 
from 89-Sankari (SC) assembly constituency, held on 
March. 1971 has failed to lodge an account of his elec- 
tion expenses as required bv the Representation of 
the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, the said candidate, even after the duo 
notice has not given any reason or explanation for the 
failure and the Election Commission is satisfied that 
he has no good reason or justification for the failure; 



4520 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the 
said Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the 
said Shri S. Palanippan to be disqualified for being 
chosen as and for being, a member of either House ol 
Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly or Legis- 
lative Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this order. 

[No. TN/LA/89/71/ (5) .] 

■STITT fEE?EE HTHtH 


ht*e 


fVfr, 30 HEEL 197 2, 


ETo Hl°3 18 7.— TT:, fEE?EE HFTPT El EEIER 
TTqT&fEErf, 1971 Et 5 JE Ef'THH I i fHHTE EHT % 
fEETEE % fsrrr 8 9-EETTf Ho El° ffiEfEE HE E 
HTTT EEE ETE TTqTTET Ht rrq-o THTft H°TE XJTE 
isff RHHtTE, HTTTTHEjt, HFE, rfETETTEFTT TEIEE, 
EtEEH»frf ETEE, fEET EEH, ET:!- afEfEpPE NfHoTHE, 
19 51 EHT HTHtH HEIR TfE fEHHI gTE HlHfaTE HTH 
fEETHE St THt Hr Tit ET ETC WlpHE ETE E HHEE % ; 

HE, HE: HTH inr'l-rTR 4, ~JE EETE JJNHr fpT HTE 
TT Et, EHE’T TH HEEEET % fEE Et# ETH HHHT EEff- 
eth T?;f Ptet £, hhi fEHtHH HTHtH et h^; vff ehthte 
ft HHT | fE HEE ITT WE HEEEET % fE^ Elf 'TTf'TT 
ETEE HT THlHtfHcH Eft 

HE:, Ha, EEH HfafEHE # EHTT 1 0-41 % HEE^T H 
fEHTHE HtHTH HEE «ff rr^o TrETEt HEE E> 

EE? % fElft Ht ETE % HT fEEt TEST Et fEHTE ENT HW 
faHlH HfETH E ETHH ^E ETH HtT'f tH E fET[, WE HTtH Et 

EiftH 4 eTe ET et EtETHfE %■ frr fETff e RtfaE ETEr 

I ' 

[Eo EfEE fEo E°/S9/7l/(5)] 

New Delhi , the 1st September 1972 

S.O, 3188. — Whereas the Election Commission is sa- 
tisfied that Shri Satyanarayan Agra walla, at P.O. TJjal- 
pur, District Sundargarh (Orissa), a contesting candi- 
date for election to the Legislative Assembly from 121 
Sundargarh Assembly Constituency, held in March, 1971, 
has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses 
as required by the Representation of the People Act. 
1951 and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, the said candidate even .after due 
notices has not given any reason or explanation for 
the failure and the Commission is satisfied that he 
has not good reason or justification for such failure; 

Now, therefore, In pursuance of section 10A of the 
said Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the 
said Shri Satyanarayan Agrawalla to be disqualified 
for being chosen as, and for being, a member of either 
House of Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly 
or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this Order. 

[No. OR-LA/121/71.] 


df fWEft, 1 fETTsP', 1972 

ET°HTo3 188.-HE:, fEH?HE HTHtH ET EHTHTH ft BET fE 

HrE, 19 71 E grr fantH ENT E fHE’MH % fEE 1 2 l-REtT- 

HW fEE?HE HE E HETH TEE HTE EPtftWT EtHEPTHH 
HHETE ET° HEIE^T, fEET (etCeT ) EPE 

srfEfEftPE hTuPtEE, 1951 EET EERIE EEIE EE fEEEl 
JTXT H^rflffE HEE fEEfTE 5EE1 ET Etf ?Tm EfftrE 
4TE E heee t; 

TT>E, EE:, TEE E EE E«FF ^EET fEE TTE 

IT Ef HEEr ?E HE TEE I % fEE Elf ETEE HHET EP€l- 
ETE Ejfl fEET EET fEETHE HTE’TE ET E^ EETETE 
ft EET I fE EE % TTE ?E HETEET % fEE Etf TEfn 
^T7E m riiw'jfaw 

HE:, HE, TEE HftdEHH fl EIE 1 0-T % HEHTE 
E fEETHE HHTTH EETTP7 EEE Hi EcEERTEE HEETE El 
EEE % fEE[ NT EEE % ET fETfV TRE Et fEHTE EHT HEET 
fEBTE EfETE % EEET ^E ETE Hk ftE E fEq;, WE HTWH # 
ElflET E ElE EE Ef ETETEftl E fEE fETff E Elfqq 
ETET | I 

[Ro EffET-fHo Eo/l2l/7 l] 

New Delhi, the 8th September 1972 

S.O. 3189. — Whereas the Election Commission ia sa- 
tisfied that Shri Kathirvel, Chandirapatti, Vellalapatti 
Dasampatti Uthangarai, a contesting candidate for 
election to the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly from 
75-Uthg.ngarai assembly constituency, held in March, 
1971 has failed to lodge an account of his election ex- 
penses as required by the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, the said candidate, even after the due 
notice has not given any reason or explanation for the 
failure and the Election Commission is satisfied that 
he has no good reason or justification for the failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the 
said Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the 
said Shri Kathirvel to be disqualified for being chosen 
as, and for being a member of either House of Parlia- 
ment or of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative 
Council of a State for a period of tnree years from 
the date of this order. 

[No. TN/LA/75/71 ( 11 ) .] 
Ef fcyrft, 8 fEETET, 1972 

ET® WT o318 9. — EE: IdVlHE H1HTE ET EETHTE 
EHT ff fE EfHEETir OHM EHT ^ fET[ ETE, 1 9 7 1 if JE 
fd^4 % fEn 7 5 TcHMKrE EHT fEEfEE ST'H EETH HIE 
ETvT diMte EH! Hf ETfHTEE, EpEEH^f, ^^ETqjf , tHEHE^f 
TErfETTTT, E'lE TfEfEfEET HfEfEEE, 1951 EHT E^sffE 
EH fEEHf HTT EHT H^ftTE HH^ flEfEE ®THf ET 

EetetThe ete e heee t| ?; 



$ . 3(H)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 4521 


iftr, fh;, hfh dinfaFK h, ?FHHr fair hth 
ft wft wrfr ?h whfhht Ft fan ^ ffth imr 

H^t f<THI dFT fHHfHH SIR FT FF FfJ[ tidiWH iff FFT t fa 

% TFT 5H MRFiMdl % fan FTtf FHfaT WFT FT iFTH*TfHcF 

*nr:, m, hfh srftrfwr qrt nm io-ft % h-jhth it 
fHHfHH tTFTtF F-T^TTT HFH «ft HTTfapFTH FTj HHH % 
FTFT TR-Tf if % fa*ft *ft RHH % ITT fafft TRF ^ faffTH 
HHT TT«TFT faffTH FfTH^ % HHTF HH RTF *flT 5TH % fair, 

^ otIh Fft drfta % nfa ft* FKiFftf % fan farfaH 
RTPT5T FTTHT I I 

[Ho HfaHHTT fao Ho/75/7l( 1 1)] 
New Delhi, the 11th September 1972 

8 . 0 . 3190 . — Whereas the Election Commission is 
satisfied that Shri Sadhu Ram, Plgt No. AC-2, Opposite 
Collectorate, Beni Park, Jaipur, Rajasthan State, a 
contesting candidate for election to the House of the 
People from 6-Dausa Parliamentary Constituency, held 
in March, 1971, has failed to lodge' an account of his 
election expenses as required by the Representation 
of the People Act, 1951 and the Rules made there- 
under; 

And whereas, the said candidate even after due 
notices has not given any reason or explanation for 
the failure and the Commission is satisfied that he 
has no good reason or justification for such failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the 
said Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the 
said Shri Sadhu Ram to be disqualified for being 
chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of 
Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly or Legisla- 
tive Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this order. 

[No. RJ-HP/6/71.] 
1 1 fHH*WT, 1972 

WTToWTo 3190- HH:, MTF'lH ipT RHIRIH ?ft HHT^ 

faHT^, 1971 H $F HtaHHT % ftfaMF % fart 6 SftTT 
HHUfPr fHHfaH tfor Tt ^HTH HTH FTH HWffaHTT kft 
HT^ TFT, WTTE Ho ITo Hfa 2, TTFF7;, FFRf? % HTH%, 
?hfFTFf , FFFJT, TRPPFTF Hfa STfHfHfHTH HftrfFFH, 1 95 1 
HHT HF[{ftH *CHTF HTr fHFHt JTTT FFT sfaftiTH fFHfaH 
®FHf FT Ftf "*fV %HTT HT%H FTT% t SFTOH t| $ i 
5flT, FHT, HHH H*HHT ^HHTTr 

TT vff, SPFft $H WfvHHT % fan FTtf HF^T 5TFFT 
HF^faTH H$T ftHT | «ftT STFTtH W F^ HHTHTH 
HFT ^ fa HR % FTH TTT WHFTHHT $ fair FT^ FTTH HHHT 
HTFTtPTFT H^t ^ i 

tRT:, 5TH, HHH wfafdFH F?f HTTT 1 O-HT % SFfHT’F H 
fHHfHH STFIfH FH^BTTT HHH «fl HTW TFT HHH % 
IVtft ift HTH HT fttHi TRIT q>t fay IH HHT tTHHT fTHTH 
qfTH^ % HHTH ^H HTH F V. H % fa TH WT^TT di^'3 
% fftH ’Pt ’PTHTHfa % fa >1 fa n'| fa d qTTHT ^ I 

[Ho TTSfo-Hto Ho/6/7l] 


S.O. 3191. — Whereas the Election Commission is sa- 
tisfied that Shri P. Subbarayan, Mazhavarayanallur, 
Kumaragudy Post, Chidambaram Taluk, South Arcot 
Dist. Tamil Nadu, a contesting candidate for election to 
the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly from 60- 
Bhuvanagiri assembly constituency, held in March, 
1971 has failed to lodge an account of his election 
expenses in the manner required by the Representa- 
tion of the People Act, 1951. and the rules made there- 
under; 

And whereas, the said candidate, even after the due 
notice has not given any reason or explanation for the 
failure and the Election Commission Is satisfied that 
he has no good reason or justification for the failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the 
said Actj the Election Commission hereby declares the 
said Shri P. Subbarayan to be disqualified for being 
chosen as, and for being, a member of either House 
of Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly or Legis- 
lative Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this order. 

[No. TN/L A/60/71 (6) .] 

WTo Wl 0 3191- — Hfi:, fanfafi HWtH TF HHT£TTH 
1 > IFTT £ ;% HiHH HTS farm HHT % fair urn, 1971 H 
gir fHHfHH 60 WTlfafa HHT & 'JHTH 

HTH Hl% HttftiTHTT 'Ft Flo RTHH, HH^THTTHTHT, ffHTTT- 
F^t TFH, HTTpF, FfaTH HTfe f'FFT. HfHHHrT, 

Hfa JTfHfHfsFH HftlfHHH, 1951 HHT HHT^ Hl^ 

PhTHI STTT fffn H HF^r fHHpHH *TF HiJT 

FlfafH TTT% if TTHTifT t| 

hV, Hfi;, HHH HTHtHTT ^ R«PF gRHT fer 
HT^ FT *fl HTHT tTHFTFFT FT farr ^rff jf^TTH ^pqaiT 
TTCTtFTTH HTH fFFT % TFT pTF?FF HTFFt FF FF HFTFFT 
iJT HHT ^ far HH % FTH ?H STHFFTHT % fa^ FTfC FHf'TT FFTH 
HT ifacF H^V ^ ; 

HH:, HH, HFH NffTfaFFT 8TTTT 1 0-FT % H^HTH ^ 
P-RfHH HFTtH irfT^iTTT HFH «fV 'ft o gsHTTFFT FrT HH^ % 
TtHT HFHf H % faFft HFH % FT fwt TRF' ^VfFHTH 
HHT HFHT fFHTH ifTH^ % HFTF" HTH HtT ?tH % fa^, 
?H sn%W FTt % cflH FT HtY FFHTHftT % fair fa^H 
HtfaH FTTHT t I 

[Ho HfHHHnr-fHo Ho/60/7l(6)] 

S.O. 3192. — Whereas the Election Commission is sa- 
tisfied that Shri V. Moharpad Shaik, KanaEkarappattu, 
Uthamasozhamangalam, Chidambaram Taluk, “South 
Areot Dist., Tamil Nadu, a contesting candidate for 
election to the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly from 
SO-Bhuvanagiri assembly constituency, held on 
March, 1971 has failed to lodge an account of his elec- 
tion expenses in the manner as required by the Re- 
presentation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules 
made thereunder; 

And whereas, the said candidate, even after the due 
notice has not given any reason or explanation for the 
failure and the Election Commission is satisfied that 
he has no good reason or justification for the failure. 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the 
said Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the 
said Shri V. Mohamad Shaik to be disqualified for 
being chosen as. and for being, a member of either 
House of Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly 



45 22 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II — 


or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this order. 

[No. TN/LA/60/71 (7) .] 

VTo qTo 3192. — RR: fRRTRR RTRtR tT 

rrurr ft rrt | fft dfftTRnr fRRPTRRT % fft 

RTR, 1971 R fP fRRfftT ft fft hO RRRffifT 
RRT fRRTRR R ^RTR R?R Rft RfttRRTT 

ft Rfo RrjRRR ftRftl TTTCT, Rft RRTftRRRR , 

fRRTRTR rtrr fftri RfrpR Rfts, afwni Rift 5 % 
faftfoT RfafRRR, 1951 R*rr RftR RRft ft fftRf str 
W lfftR ftfR R =5TTR fRRlRR 3RR1 ftT RRT RTfRTR ftft 4 
rrtr ft ; 

ftT RR; RftT RfftRRTT RR OTT gRRT fft RTR 
IT ft Rift ?R RRftRRT % fft spiff ftlftT RRRf RT'ftftTR 

Rft ferr £ ; rri fRR trr rtrir ftT rr rrishr ft rri t 

ft; ft ft RTR ft RRftRRT % fft ftT? Rftft ^7TT°T Rf 
"■iTi'Cri pHr^T "Tift 

RR:, RR, RftR RfNfRRR ft HlTl 1 0-ft ft RgRftl it 
fRRTRR RrR>R uTfSTO RTR ft ft° r'T^TRR Wft ftf 

RRR % i tRl Rftlf it R fftft iff RRR' % RT fftft ft-ft ft 

■\ 

ft tit rri rrri fftTR Rfrft ft rfr ret ret r^t f ft 

% fft, ft ftT dTTftr Tf ftR Rff ft ftPRTRfR % fft 
fRTfft sffftcT R T 'Tf | I 

[Ro TftFTft|/fto TT°/ 6 0/ 7 1 (?)] 
New Delhi, the 13 th September, 1972 

S.O. 3193. — Whereas the Election' Commission is satis- 
fied that Shri P. Palaniandy, Krishnarayapuram P.O., 
Kulittalai Taluk, Tiruchirappalli District, a contest- 
ing candidate for election to the Tamil Nadu Legisla- 
tive Assembly from 163 -Krishnarayapuram assembly 
constituency held in 1971 has failed to lodge an 
account of his election expenses as required by the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules 
made thereunder; 

And whereas the said candidate, even after the due 
notice has not given any reason or explanation for the 
failure and the Election Commission is satisfied that 
he has no good reason or justification for the failure. 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the 
said Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the 
said Shri P. Palaniandy to be disqualified for being 
chosen as, and for being, a member of either House 
of Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly or 
Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this order. 

[No. TN/LA/163/71 (12) .] 

qf fftft 1 3 f’TTR'T, 197 2 
ftlo Rio 3193. — RR:, fRRTRR RTRTR ft! RRTRTR 
ft RRT & fft RfKRRTR fRRTR RRT % fft Rift 19 70 K 
ft rrrtn T N fRR?RR % fft l 6 3 ftCRrTTftftT RR1 fRR?RR 
$r % ftTR r?r Rr% RTftftrrr ft fto qpRRlRRft, fro 
RT° f:OTTT < N'id.e , ^ftpTFTf ftp-if 

'TTT trftftftc? wftftTR, 1951 TTf TT^fT TdrE qr. 
fttpff 3TTT Ndfwd ?m ftrrTT sq-eff TT ’itr 

it'NT TTplTN TTd R ’T'TTN ft f ; 


Td:, dJ-OKdK, ?1, RTTdi fth 

Nft TT ft ?pTft *;rT irrfTTHdT % ftff[ ftt dHTN 5PTdl 
^qrftqyrq- ftj; fthT | ; Fp^T irftTiT TT T7( rPTltlR 

iTTl t ftr TFT ’TR'LHdT % fftir Tft *PTWT 

tt ^trrftfRcir f ; 

m., nt , T-fd ftferfftF ft irrH 1 ott % rrprnir t 
ftdfRR Rftft Pc^aTTl Tdd ft fto TlNHWhlft ft Rft; 
% Tftf Rftf A R ftft ft RNR %■ ft ftft TTJR ft fftf ft 
'Tft trhft fq-Rft qfftd R: RftR qq TIT ftv TTT % fftT, 
ft%9T ft dKft R dTT Rtf ft TTRftftr % fftd fdftft 
ftfftT T <q I ^ I 

[R° TfRRRft/ftoRo/ 163/7 (l2)] 

S.O. 3194, — Whereas the Election Commission is 
satisfied that Shri P, K. Ramasamy s/ o Karuppan, 
Ponpamppi, Jayankondam Taluk, Tiruchirapalli Dis- 
trict, a contesting candidate for election to the Tamil 
Nadu Legislative Assembly from 155- Jayankondam 
assembly constituency held in March, 1971 has failed 
to lodge an account of his election expenses in the 
manner required by the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas the said candidate, even after the due 
notice has not given any reason or explanation for the 
failure and the Election Commission is satisfied that 
he has no good reason or justification for the failure. 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the 
said Act, the Election Commission hereby declares 
the said Shri P. K. Ramasamy to be disqualified for 
being chosen as. and for being, a member of either 
House of Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly 
or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this order. 

[No. TN/LA/155/71 (13).j 

«PTo qTo 3194. — ftp, fftrfftT Nftft ftT 
HftETft ft ftTT ^ fft Rift 1971 R ^TT, fifftlftT 
fftfft Rft ^7 fftfftT %■ fftT 15 5, vTftTftftT RRT 
fftfftT RR R ^Rft Hft ft% HftkftT ft 
fto TfRTTRTft ftftftR, ftfiRFft, ftftffttTR 

RFTft fdhfu HRcft fftRT, ftft Rfdfdftlft ftftfTRR, 
19 51 Rft RRftft RftiT ipT fRRRf STft ftftNR ftfd R 

ftft fftRfftT ftRt ftT ftRT Rrf%R ftft R RRftR -ft ^ ; 

ftp RT:, RRR "7 ftl " 3 ft RTRft fft 

Rft TT ft, RRft ^R RRftRRT ft fftR T7t| sglftR iq-^RT 
RTcftftTR ftft fRRf I RR1 fTRTftR RTRft ft! RR RRTRft 
ft RRT ^ fft RR^T TTR i[R RRftRRT fftT ftf^ TRfft ftTTft 
RRR1 FRlftfRrR Rft ft 

RR:, RR, RftR RrRfRRR ft RPR 1 0-ft % iftJRWr R 
fRR?RR RTftR rrRRftnr RRR ft fto ^o v,m | ^ || 4j ft 
RRR %■ fftft ft RRR % RT RtfR ft fRRFT RRT RftRT 
fRRIR TffRRft RRPR ^R RTR ftT RTR % fair TR Rlftfl 
ft RlftRT R ftR Rtf ft RTRTRfR % fft[ fftf%R ftfRR 
ftTRT t I 

[Ro RfRRRTy/fRo R°/ 155/71 ( 13)] 



Sic. S ( ii ) J 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER '21, 1972/ASV1NA 29, J 894 


4523 


New Delhi, the 15th September 1972 

S.O. 3195. — Whereas the Election Commission is satis- 
fied that Shri Nagarajan, 35, Kaliammankoil Street, 
Mela Thiruppanthurithi, Thanjavur Taluk, Than- 
javur District, Tamil Nadu, a contesting candidate 
for election to the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly 
from 169-Thiruvaiyaru assembly constituency, held 
in March, 1971 has failed to lodge an account of his 
election expenses as required by the Representation 
of the People Act. 1951. and the Rules made there- 
under; 

And whereas, the said candidate even after the due 
notice has not given any reason or explanation for 
the failure and the Election Commission is satisfied 
that he has no good reason or justification for the 
failure. 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the 
said Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the 
said Shri Nagarajan to be disqualified for being 
chosen as, and for being, a member of either House 
of Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly or Legis- 
lative Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this order. 


[No. TN/LA/169/7K (14).] 
By order, 

A. N. SEN, Secy. 

rft freET, IS fw? T, 1972 

ETo NT 0 319 5 — EE: fTETEB RTERT TT RETETE ft 
RET I % ETE, 197 1 q |nr EfBEET? % fo r tE E % fair 199 
fEEEETE fEEfEE ME R EERT REE ER BERIeeR «ft BTETRE, 
35 ErfEETBEEWN fiRt', BBT ERTfE E1B[E, 

RETET fEET, RlrpTdT?, ETE STfEfEftpE Rfg-fEEB, 195 1 
ddT RENTE EEPT firr fqTflff ITTT TTT RTfER REE fEEtEE 
5 EET TTT TTS Rt EET ErfER EEE if STJWT 'NT | ; 

S(K EE:, BEE B'FrfTEER E, BET ETERI ;jEBT ETE 
TE '4V, NTEt $R TTREEBT % forr ERf qq-ng iq-q-qq 

fEET I, TTT fEETEE RTEtB ET EE RRTSTTE iff ret % 
BE% ETB RT EETRcTT % forr Rtf Tqfcq jppnrr qj 
^ETBtfETE EEf I; 

ETL, NE , BEE TTfEfEER rV SETT 1 OE % EERRT if 
fEEtEE ETERI n ,BEaRT BEE NT EHREE ET BET \ fen 


Ef BEE % ET fEEl ET^E Erf fEWTE BET BEET fENTE qflRE 
E RBTE RE ETE NR ?TE E fan RT 5TRE E°f ErCRE % EtE 
EE Ef ETBTEfN E fan farfe ElfEE ERR | I 

[/fa EfEREr|-fEoEo/l69/7l( 14)] 
ito EE 0 $E, RfEE I 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING 
(Department of Health) 

New Delhi, the 17 th May 1972 

S.O. 3196.— In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the proviso lo article 309 of the Constitution, the Pre- 
sident hereby makes the following rules regulating 
the method of recruitment of persons to Class TV posts 
in the Central Research Institute. Kasaull, namely:— 

1. Short title and commencement.— (1) These rules 
may be called the Central Research Institute, Kasaull 
(Class IV posts) Recruitment Rules, 1972. 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of their 
publication in the official gazette. 

2, Application. — These rules shall apply to the posts 
specified in column 2 of the schedule below rules 6 
of these rules. 


d. Number, classification and scale of pay. The 

numbci of the said posts, their classification and the 
scales of pay attached thereto shall be as specified 
m columns 3 to 5 of the said Schedule. 

4 Method of Recruitment, age limit and other quali- 
fications.— The method of recruitment to the said 
posts, age limit, qualifications and other matters con- 
nected therewith shall be as specified in columns 6 to 
14 ol the Schedule aforesaid; 

Provided that the upper age limit prescribed for 
direct recruitment may bo relaxed in the case of candi- 
d ® te ® belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Schedul- 
ed Tribes and other special categories of persons in 
accordance with toe general orders issued by the 
Central Government from time to time, 

5. Disqualifications. — No person. 

(a) who ha s entered into or contracted a mar- 
riage with a person having a spduse living, or 

Cb) who, having a spouse living, has entered into 
or contracted a marriage with any person, 
shall be eligible for appointment t<? the salr* 
posts: 



4524 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA OCTOBER 21 , 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[Part II— 


Provided that the Central Government may, if satisfied that such marriage is permissible under the personal law applicable to 
such person and the other party to the marriag and there are other grounds for so doing, exempt any person from the operation of the 
r ule . 

6. Saving Nothing in these rules shall affect recruitments and other concessions required to be provided for Scheduled Castes 
and Scheduled Tribes and other special categories of persons in accordance with the orders issued by the Central Government from time 
, to time in this regard. 


Schedule 


Serial 

Name of the post 

No. of 

Classification 

Scale of pay 

No. 

posts 


(x) 

(2) 

( 3 ) 

( 4 ) 

( 5 ) 

1. 

Tin Smith 

. . 2 

Ceneral Central Services Class 

Rs. 85-2-95-3-1 to 




IV, Non-Ministerial. 

2. 

Farrier ..... 

. . I 

Do. 

RS.75-1-85-EB-2-95 

3 . 

Head Chowkidar .... 

s I 

Do. 

Do. 

4 - 

Head Sweeper .... 

. . I 

Do. 

Do. 


WhetherSelection Post or nonselection post. 

(6) 

Age for 
direct 
recruits 

( 7 ) 

Educational and other qualifica- Whether age and educational 
tions required for direct qualification prescribed for direct 

recruits. recruits will apply in the case of 

. promotees. 

(8) ( 9 ) 

Not applicable ...... 

. 25 yrs. 

(i) L’. irate. Not applicable. 

(ii) 2 years experience of Tin 

Smith’s work. 

Not applicable 

Do. 

(i) Literate. Do. 

(ii) 3 years experience of Farrier’s 
work. 

Non-Selection 

. Not appli- 
cable. 

Not applicable. Not applicable. 

Non-Selection 

Do. 

Do. Do. 


Period of probation Method of recruitment In case of recruitment by If D.P.C. exists, whit is Circumstances in which 
if any whether by direct recruit promotion/ transfer grades its composition. U.P.S.C. is to be consulted 

or by promotion or by de- from which promotion/ ' in making recruitment, 

putation/transfer and per- deputation/transfer to be 
centage of the vacancies to made, 
be filled by various methods 


(io) 


(it) 



(i 4 ) 


100 % by direct recruitment 

Not applicable. 

Not applicable. 

Not applicable. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

ioo % by promotion 

Chowkidar of the Insti- 
tute with 3 years’ ser- 
vice. 

Class IV D.P.C. 

Do. 

Do. 

Sweepers or Conservancy 
sweepers of the Insti- 
tute with 3 years’ ser- 
vice. 

Do. . 

Do. 


*WT*srcr srhc ifon: MfcCT 
from 

17 trf, 1972 


[No. F. 19-57/71-MA.] 


ftHo ^ffo 3i 96 — tffasiFT % 30 9 T TTwFFr 5RT STTH TTfTTtfr TT TTPI gff TTRTfff t/?R5TTT SECTOR 

TRRT % - 4 % T?T TT W Tl f#ST TT WdtrfiR % fart fntPT SfTR : — 

i . sfa'ar srfr :■ — ( 1 ) t fartr srrsir t'ftr, trM - 4 ^) nf 1972 

To'TT viT 1 

( 2) ^ STfR STRUT % TRTSI if 5RPIR tpt ffffq- % v(Tff $Ff I 


Sec. 3 (li J 1 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 2'*, IK 94 


4525 


2 . TTTPiT : — 4 faaa ^ Faatf % ftaa 6 % at% HHm Hggat % ana 2 if FafEa 94 1 9 T HFT ^tt I 

3. HTTI, atfamT 44T t444T4 : — 441 tt aT4T TTTT atfamr 44T 444414 4?! £14 44T % T94 aggtt T f4'T*T 3 if 5 

t fafe I I 

4- 4rff 44 FaFsi, aEJ ataf, a£ 4 Tn aiFa : — 394 94T TT atf tt fafa, aT9 9t4T atam m\ an 9T4 9£t £T4t if HI fa TTT 
a^ft % ana e it 1 4 if Fafna 1 1 

THT %f jEt 49944 STO 449-944 99 9T9f fat 94 41449 ’TT^TTT % 949T3 94gf49 ^Tfa/aggfaa 49 9Tfa 99T SET 

fatta sraaf % am mfaaat % amm a ttsfr *raT % Fag fatrtFmr srFtrfma sift atar fmF fa tin armf % i 

5 . aafar : atf tt mfta : (a) ^ft ftat fit nfaa if Farm aear/Vat t aaar fans; art tFaar arai/amt | 
Ft 944 «(it afa ai fm-tl amt at Fm tfr, man 

(m) at mtta tt afT/gm amt t fafra 9£4 fn; fmfr mfn t mmfmra h.^tt / qr^F r | wn fmi£ Et aFam 
4TTcfr/'frdt 

Err if fm Pm 99 am 9jff tjErr i 

amg %nt9 49999 99 aaram Em 49 Ft far Pmr£ t?t mfn ate Farm % ^49 aw ae am gm tetT FarFa % aFta 
aata &, air tar ami F am mure £, Ffr ft at mffT fit 5 a faaa t amm t $ amft | 1 

e. amm :— 99 »T5ra it %nta awrf <ner 999-949 ae mret fan m artai % a^rn: a^gFra htFcT / aggfaa nr nfa 

an an fa^ta ml % nftaat % Fag Faa arcaar ate an Fearaat tt nawr Ten aifaff | nr arm F-rnfr if Faf^a Feat 
na w snna a^t alar 1 


aaaal 

* (V 


ar fa ara 

art nFfana 

att 

asar 

aaaara 

aa aaaaa % 

aaar araaaa- 

WM 

jftsfr aaf % Far 
ara ? ftar 

atat arff % fag 
at F«a afsrar an 
an a|art 

1 

2 3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

1. etaTR 

2 ararn %-^ta 
irarawt-3 
aagaFaara 

85-2-95—3—1 10 To 

■far agf Ear 

2 5aa 

(i) naT 

( jj) rftaaaa % aaa 
ar 2 at fa aaaa 

■o 

2. na aral 

mwr 

1 ata 

7 5— 1—85— To Fto 2-95 

t;o 

ata 

ata 

(i) arae 

( ii ) ara naa % 
am ai 3 at ar 

aaaa 

3. aaTT 

aWkn 

i ata 

ata 

ara atawa 

aiga|t £t4T 

am; agt ftaT 

4. aara aaa$ 

av4arft 

1 aaa 

ata 

ata 

ata 

aaa 



4526 


THE GAZETTE OF TNDTA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASV1NA 29, 1894 


[Part II — ■ 


wr TTirrfT d far did qffafaidi 
31% % m\ : 3 dfd 

Kpfar if JCd'd VTfff Ttf pfl I 

fad %jfH df% odfaldf j 
% ftp? fasrfftd 3TFT 
fatrifeiT ^dTd 
RTF[$Fff I 


'fldf dT difaT Tfhft- 
Rdf ST7T dT ‘FJmfr 
idnTRddT ddTdT- 

drr«r% mr 
fafaw dfaddanr 
■rfa 'jrpT did dif dff 
dfdWTT i 


qifafd srfdft^fdd 3rf% fdRpfrd ditafa qfaWddi fadif 
FdTdFcP'tfi % dRT , *Tcff % dfrrfd i eft dTTTT TdT Rdf % farr 
RIRd if 4? dS fadR ddT- d3d i | d'dfd fafa RdT 

Nfd dfdfddfar wsTRIrrlv-or RlddT ff dTTqyf 

fadl RTdT ff I f"l HT 5TTdI I 



8 

9 

10 

i i 


12 

13 

1. 

dTR ddf ftTdT 

2 Ef f 

Rd dfddd fadf 

did ddf dldl 


ddr ddf £>11 

RPJ ddf dtdT 




Rdf 3TN 





2. 


did 

did 

* 

ddd 


(fad 

did 

3. 

dPT Tift if'FTT 

did 

wi qffffpT rpmrfa 

SR defil'd % did RFT 

ddf-t 

did 




SET 

dff RdT dT% 

=dfaY- 

fdRdftd TdRlffT 






dfaf d?T ddtvrfd idd 

dfdfd 


4. 

did 

did 

did 

Td dddld % 

ddr$ 

did 

did 





fan^rrftdf 

dT ’fat- 




Rd ddd d91d fa 
dfatd (ftd did df 
fan 'jfa ddfaf gt i 


New Delhi, -the 7lh October 1972 

S.O. 3197. — In exorcise of the powers conferred 
by the proviso to article 309 of the Constitution, 
the President hereby makes the following rules fur- 
ther to amend the Central Research Institute, 
Kaisauli, (Deputy Assistant Director) Recruitment 
Rules, 1967, namely: — 

1. Short title and commencement. — (1) These rules 
may be called the Central Research Institute, Kasauli 
(Deputy Assistant Director) Recruitment (Amend- 
ment) Rules, 1972. 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of 
their publication in the Official Gazette, 

2. Amendment of the Rules, — In the Central Research 
Institute, Kasauli (Deputy Assistant Director) Re- 
cruitment Rules, 1967, for rule 5 relating to the dis- 
qualification clause, the following rule shall be sub- 
stituted, namely: — 

"5. Disqualification No person,— 

(a) who has entered into or contracted a mar- 
riage with a person having a spouse living, 
or 

(b) who, having a spouse living, has entered 
into or contracted a marriage with any per- 
son, shall be eligible for appointment to the 
above post; 


Provided that the Central Government may, if 
satisfied that such marriage is permissible under the 
persona] Law applicable to such person and the other 
party to the marriage and that there are other 
grounds for so doing,, exempt any person from the 

operation of this rule,” fNo F _ 13 _ 3 o/71-MA.l 

S.O. 3197 A. — In exercise of the powers conferred 
\\\e proviso to nrticle 309 of the Constitution, the 


[d° <T° 19-5 7/7 l-iDTo f°] 
Reft dFTFR, RdT dpdd I 

President hereby makes the following rules further 
to amend the Central research Institute, Kasauli (Fac- 
tory Manager) Recruitment Rules, 1965, namely: — 

1. Short title and commencement. — (1) These rules 
may be called the Central Research Institute, 
Kasauli (Factory Manager) Recruitment (Amend- 
ment) Rules, 1972, 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of their 
publication in the Official Gazette, 

2, Amendment of the Rule. — In Ihe Central Research 
Institute Kasauli (Factory Manager) Recruitment 
Rules, 1965, for rule 5 relating to the disqualification 
clause, the following rule shall be substituted, 
namely: — 

“^-Disqualification: — No person, — 

(a) who has entered into or contracted a 
marriage with n person having a spouse liv- 
ing, or 

(b) who, having a spouse living, has entered in- 
to or contracted a marriage with any per- 
son, shall Ibe eligible for appointment to the 
above post: 

Provided that the Central Government may, if 
satisfied that such marriage is permisible under 
the persona] Law applicable to such person and the 
other party to the marriage and that there are other 
grounds for so doing, exempt any person from the 
operation of this rule”- 

I No. F, 19-30/71-MA.] 


S O 3197B. — In exercise of the powers conferred 
bv the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution, the 
President herebv makes the following rules further 
to amend the Central Research Institute, Kasauli, 



S5c. 3(H)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4527 


Assistant Director (Non-Medical) Recruitment Rules, 
1968, namely: — 

1. Short title and commencement. — (1) These rules 
may be called the Central Research Institute, Kasau- 
li, Assistant Director (Non-Medical) Recruitment 
(Amendment) Rules. 1972. 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of their 
publication in the Official Gazette. 

2. Amendment of the Rule. — In the Central Re- 
search Institute. Kasauli, Assistant Director (Non- 
Medical) Recruitment Rules, 1968, for rule 5 relat- 
ing to the disqualification clause, the following rule 
shall be substituted, namely: — 

“5. Disqualification : — No person, — 

(a) who has entered into or contracted a mar- 
riage with a person having a spouse living, 
or 

(b) who, having a spouse living, has entered 
into or contracted a marriage with any person 
Shall be eligible for appointment to the above 
post: 

Provided that the Celitral Government may, if 
satisfied that such marriage is permissible under the 
personal Law applicable to such person and the other 
party to the marriage and that there are other 
°’-ounds for bo doing, exempt any person -from the 
operation of this rule”. 

[No. F. 19-30/71-MA.] 
SATHI BALAKRISHNA, Under Secy. 


(Department of Health) 

New Delhi, the 4th August 1972 
S.O. 3198.— Whereas the Central Government have 
in pursuance of the provisions of clause (a) of sub- 
section (1) of section 3 of the Indian Medical Council 
Act, 1956 (102 of 1956), and in consultation with the 
Government of Kerala, nominated Dr K. Balaraman. 
Director of Health Services. Kerala, to be a member 
of the Medical Council of India to represent the State 
of Kerala with effect from the 14th June, 1972 vice 
Dr. T. V. Sundareswaran resigned; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of 
sub-section (1) of section 3 of the said Act. the Cen- 
tral Government hereby makes the following further 
amendment in the notification of the Government of 
India in the late Ministry of Health No. 5-13/59-MI, 
dated the 9th January, 1960, namely:— 

In the said notification, under the heading “Nomi- 
nated under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of Section 
3”, for the entry against serial No. 3, the following 
entry shall be substituted, namely: — 

“Dr. K. Balaraman. Director of Health Services, 
Kerala, Trivandrum.” 

[No. V. 11013/1/72-MPT.] 
P. C. ARORA, Under Secy. 

®r ftwn) 

hf feevft, 4 SPIFT, 1972 
FT ° Sit °3 1 98 — *Tcr: 

srfsrfffitPT, 1956 ( 1956 102) # STRT 3 ^ 3T-smr 

( l) % ms (ffi) % iJTSRjf 4T snjrcjr fir 

% ITT 0 % odM<PH, PH Pm 

*Frr ftt ure r , # 1 4 spt 1 972 3 r sr ° eY o ifto 

ctTPTTgr I feu, % P9R TT fTKdtT fhfo.cffT 

TfTTT n ffiMh f^TT | I 


sftT W: 3TT Slfsrfiprtl *Y STRT 3 # 39-OTTT ( 1 ) 
% SWSff T( 5RFT1T fF ETdJT dddgRT 

STTCrl % 9 1 960 

*Y ?rfg^sRT fW 5-1 3/5 9-tTR-I F SIFT 5)*k fardfafacl 
ESfrSFI | ; TPPT: — 

srfsRfffiTI R "iJRT 3 -TTSrrU ( l) % ^ (di) 
if Rdtdtd” sM % iTdUid TP SW 3 TT Sfdfe 
% Pjn frfTH-fdfeT trfdfe m «TTtT, qpid: 

“dl O % o 
%TN, 

[E©rr 11013/1/72-^oqYo^o] 

STdTr^l ^ri ?pfru, WIT dfdd, 1 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Expenditure) 

New Delhi, the 24 th July 1972 

S.O. 3199. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the proviso to article 309 and clause (5) of article 148 
of the Constitution and of all other powers enabling 
him in this behalf, and after consultation with the 
Comptroller and Auditor General of India in respect 
of persons serving in the Indian Audit and Accounts 
Department, the President hereby makes the follow- 
ing rules further to amend the Contributory Provident 
Fund Rules (India), 1962, namely: — 

1. (1) These rules may he called the Contributory 
Provident Fund (India) 2nd Amendment Rules, 1972. 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of their 
publication in the Official Gazette. 

2. In rule 16 of the Contributory Provident Fund 
Rules (India), 1962 for Sub-rule (2) the following sub- 
rule shall be substituted, namely: — 

“(2) Whenever a subscriber is in a position to sa- 
tisfy the competent authority about the 
amount standing to his credit in thp Contri- 
butory Provident Fund account with refer- 
ence to the latest available statement of Con- 
tributory Provident Fund account together 
with the evidence of subsequent contribution, 
the competent authority may itself sanction 
withdrawal within the prescribed limits, as 
in the case of a refundable advance. In doing 
so, the competent authority shall take into ac- 
count any withdrawal or refundable advance 
already sanctioned by it in favour of the sub- 
scriber. Where, however, the subscriber is 
not in a position to satisfy the competent au- 
thority about the amount standing to his cre- 
dit or where there is anv doubt about the ad- 
missibility of the withdrawal applied for. a 
reference may be made to the Account Offi- 
cer by the competent authority for ascertain- 
ing the amount standing to the credit of the 
subscriber with a view to enable the compe- 
tent authority to determine the admissibility 
of the amount of the withdrawal. The sanc- 
tion for the withdrawal should prominently 
indicate the Contributory Provident Fund Ac- 
count Number and the Account Officer main- 
taining the accounts and a copy of the sanc- 
tion should invariably be endorsed to the Ac- 
count Officer. The sanctioning authority shall 
be responsible to ensure that an acknowledg- 
ment is obtained from the Account Officer 
that the sanction for withdrawal has been 




4528 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II — 


noted in the ledger account of the subscriber. 
In case the Account Officer reports that the 
withdrawal as sanctioned is in excess _ of the 
amount to the credit of the subscriber or 
otherwise inadmissible, the sum withdrawn 
by the subscriber shall forthwith be repaid 
in one lumpsum together with interest there- 
on at the rate determined under rule 12 by 
the subscriber to the fun^ and in default of 
shall be ordered by the 
--j ■ u, : ■ ■ to be recovered from 

his emoluments either in a lump sum or in 
such number of monthly instalments, as may 
be determined by the President.” 

[No. 2(62) (ii)-E.V.(B)/71.] 

S.O. 3199 A. — In exercise of the powers conferred 
by the proviso to article 309 and clause (5) of article 148 
of the Constitution and of all other powers enabling 
him in this behalf, and after consultation with the 
Comptroller & Auditor General of India in respect of 
persons serving in the Indian Audit and Accounts 
Department, the President hereby makes the follow- 
ing rules further to amend the General Provident 
Fund (Central Services) Rules, 1960 namely:— 

1 (1) These rules may be called the General Pro- 
vident Fund (Central Services) 3rd Amendment 
Rules, 1972. 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of their 
publication in the Official Gazette. 

2 In rule 15 of the General Provident Fund (Central 
Services) Rules, I960, for sub-rule (2), 'the following 
sub-rule shall be substituted, namely:— 

“(2) Whenever a subscriber is in a position to 
satisfy the competent authority about the 
amount standing to his credit in the General 
Provident Fund account with reference to the 
latest available statement of General Provident 
Fund Account together with the evidence of 
subsiquent contribution, the competent autho- 
rity may itself sanction withdrawal within the 
prescribed limits, as in the case of a 
refundable advance. In doing so, the com- 
petent authority shall take into account any 
withdrawal or refundable advance already 
sanctioned by it in favour of the subscriber. 
Where, however, the subscriber is not in_ a 
position to satisfv the competent authority 
about the amountt standing to his credit w 
where there i" anv doubt about the admissi- 
bility of the withdrawal' applied for. a refer- 
ence mav be made to the Account Officer by 
the competent authoritv for ascertaining the 
amount standing to the credit of the subscriber 
with a view to enable the competent authority 
to determine the admissibility of the amount 
of withdrawal The sanction _ for the with- 
drawal should orominently indicate the Gene- 
ral Provident Fund Account Number and the 
Account Officer maintaining the accounts and 
a copv of the sanction for withdrawal should 
invariably be endorsed to that Accounts Officer. 
The sanctioning authority shall be responsible 
to ensure that an acknowledgement is obtain- 
ed from the Account Officer that the sanction 
for withdrawal has been noted in the ledger 
account of the subscriber. In case the Account 
Officer renorts that the withdrawal as sanc- 
tioned is in excess of the amount to the credit 
of the subscriber o r otherwise inadmissible the 
sum withdrawn by the subscriber shall forth- 
with be repaid in one lump sum together with 
interest thereon at the rate determined under 
rul° 11. by the subscriber to the fund and in 
default nf such repayment, it shall be ordered 
bv the sanctioning authoritv to be recovered 
from his emoluments either in a lump sum or 


in suesh number of omnthly instalments as 
may be determined by the President”. 

[No. 2(62) (ii)-E.V.(B)/71.] 
New Delhi, the 5th August 1972 

S.O. 3290. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the proviso to article 309 and clause (5) of article 148 
of the Constitution, and of all other powers enabling 
him in this behalf and after consultation with the Com- 
ptroller and Auditor-General in relation to persons 
serving in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, 
the President hereby makes the following rules further 
to amend the General Provident Fund (Central Ser- 
vices) Rules, 1960, namely:— 

1. (1) These rules may be called the General Provi- 
dent Fund (Central Services) Fifth Amendment Rules, 
1972. 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of their 
publication in the Official Gazette. 

2. In the General Provident Fund (Central Services) 
Rules, 1960, in the proviso to sub-rule (1) of rule 16. 
for the words “five years’ pay”, the figures and words 
“75 times the monthly pay” shall be substituted. 

[No. F.13(1)-EV (B) /72-GPF.] 

New Delhi, the. &th August 19.72 

S.O. 3200A. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the proviso to article 309 and clause (5) of article 148 
of the Constitution, and of all other powers enabling 
him in this behalf, the President, after consultation with 
the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India in res- 
pect of persons serving in the Indian Audit and 
Accounts Department, hereby makes the following rules 
further to amend the General Provident Fund (Cen- 
tral Services) Rules, 1960, namely: — 

1. (1) These rules may be called the General Provi- 
dent Fund (Central Services) Sixth Amendment Rules, 
1972. 

(2) They shall come in force on the date of their 
publication in the Official Gazette. 

2. In the General Provident Fund (Central Services) 
Rules, 1960, in sub-rule (11 of rule 15, after clause (f) 
and before the Note, the following clause shall be in- 
serted. namely: — 

“(g) For acquiring a farm land or business 
premises or both within six months before the 
date of the subscriber’s retirement”. 

[No. 3 .3 ( 1 9 ) -E. V. (B ) / 7 0-GPF. ] 

S.O. 3200B. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the proviso to article 309 and clause (5) of article 148 
of the Constitution, and of all other powers enabling 
him in this behalf, the President, after consultation 
with the Comotroller and Auditor-General of India in 
respect of persons serving in the Indian Audit and 
Accounts Department, hereby makes the following rules 
further to amend the Contributory Provident Fund 
Rules (India), 1962 namely: — 

1. (2) These rules may be called the Contributory 
Provident Fund (India) Fifth Amendment Rules, 1972. 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of their 
publication in the Official Gazette. 

2. In the Contributory Provident Fund Rules (India). 

1962 in sub-rule (1) of rule 16. after clause (f) and 
before the Note, the following clause shall JjeJnserted, 
namely. — ■ 1 1 1 I 

“(g) For acquiring a farmland or business premises 
or both within six months before the date of 
the subscriber’s retirement”. 

[No. 33 ( 1 9 ) -F- V. / 70-GPF. ] 



S Sc. 3(H)} 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4529 


CORRIGENDA 

New Delhi, the 3rd August 1972 

S.O. 3201 In the notification of the Government of 

India in the Ministry of Finance .(Department of Ex- 
penditure) No. S.O. 934, dated the 1st Marcn, 1972, 
published at pages 1397 to 1443 of the Gazette of India, 
Part II. Section 3, Sub-section (ii), dated the 1st April, 
1972: — 

( 1 ) at page 1400, in the Explanation to clause (a) 
of sub-rule (21 of rule 10, for “For the pur- 
poses of this clause”, read “For the purposes 
of this clause, the expression”; 

(2) at page 1402, in rule 19, — 

(i) in clause (a) of sub-rule (3), for “pension, 
bonus or gratuity”, read “pension or gra- 
tuity”; 

(ii) in sub-rule (4), for “pension, bonus or gra- 
tuity,”, read “pension or gratuity,”; 

(3) at page 1403, in clause (c) of sub-rule (1) of 
rule 27, for “on where the Government”, read 
“or where the Government”; 

(4) at page 1407, in suib-rule (4) of rule 46, for 
“sub-rule (1) of rule 30 of these rules,”, read 
“sub-rule (1) of rule 30”; 

(5) at page 1410, in sub-rule (2) of rule 51, for 
“sub-rule (i) of rule 50”, read “sub-rule (1) 
of rule 50”; 

(6) at page 1412, in clause (b) of sub-rule (11) of 
rule 54, for “family pension”, read “family 
pensions”; 

(7) at page 1414, in sub-rule (1) of rule 60, for 
“substantially” read “substantively”; 

(8) at page 1415, in sub-rule (1) of rule 61, for 
“on account of clerical error subsequently:”, 
read “on account of detection of clerical error 
subsequently:”; 

(9) at page 1422, in rule 82, for “80”, read “81’; 

(10) at page 1427, in Form-5, in the heading, for 
“82(1)” read “83(1)”; 

(11) at page 1430, in item 1 of Section I of Part III 
of Form-7, for “disallowance if any other then 
disallowance indicated in Part II of this Form”, 
read “disallowance, if any, (other than dis- 
allowance indicated in Part II of this Form”); 

(12) at page 1436, in paragraph 2 of Form-15, for 
“enclosed Form 17.”, read, “the enclosed "Form 
17.”; 

(13) in Form 18, 

(i) at page 1438, in item 15 of Part I, for “Civil 
Services”, read “Central Civil Services”; 

(ii) at page 1439, in item 1(4) of Part III, for 
“Special”, read “Specific”; 

(14) at page 1441, in the first paragraph of Form 
20 , for “his” read “his/her”. 

[No. 6(8)-EV(A)/72.] 

S. S. L. MALHOTRA, Under Secy. 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance) 

Income-Tax 

New Delhi, the 14 th July 1970 

S.O. 3202 In exercise of the powers conferred by 

sub-clause (iii) of clause (44) of section 2 of the 
Income tax Act. 1961 (43 of 1961) the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby authorises S/Shri S. K. Soni, S. K. 
Sabharwal and J . C . Dhingra who are Gazttted Officers 
of the Central Government, to exercise the powers of 
Tax Recovery Officers under the said Act. 


This notification shall come into force with effect 
from 17th July, 1972. 

[No. 138jF. No. 404]255|72-ITCC.] 
faff TtUvTtf 

( 7 1 RTF -ark URT fqqTTT) 

RTFFT 

foFV, 14 a-RTf 1972 . 

FT ° RTo 3202. — RTF FT RfirfFTR, 1961 
(1961 FT 43 ) Ft RTTT 2 % ( 44 ) % 

iw? (iii) ffttt rfr yfami ft sftr ftr 

fTi, FRTPT RTFTT R#Rt mr o % o R>fi, PR 0 %o 

rrtftr rit f ° rV c ctrtt Ft Ft rtftt F Trarfed 
RfkFirt |, rft srfsjiwr F mvd ft RfsiFTfTFt 
Ft FfFFU Fr SPTtF FTR % fan, qdFTFTTT STlfsifR FTdt 

Rfs^RRT 1 7 FFltj 1 972 it RFR flTfit I 
[R° 1 38/FT o'/r o 404/ 255/72— Rff o£t oRt °Rt o] 

New Delhi, the nth July 1972 

S.O. 3203. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-clause (iii) of clause (44) of Section 2 of the 
Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) the Central Govern- 
ment hereby authorises Shri S. N. Joshi who is a 
Gazetted Officer of the Central Government to exercise 
the powers of a Tax Recovery Officer under the said 
Act. 

2. This notification shall come into force with im- 
mediate effect. 

[No. 141 (F. No. 404/194/72-ITCC . ] 
A. K. NASTA, Under Secy 

RT fcwft, 17FRT|, 1972 

FT ° RTo 32 03. — RTFFT RfefFIR 1961 

(1961 FT 43) Ft STITT 2 F ^ ( 44 ) % 

RF-tgUF (iii) FFTTT SRfT Ffeffit FT SFitF FTft 
|TT RTFTT t[R 0 o FTTlt Ft, Ft %RltF RTFTT 

F TIF'TIFf FftfFTTT f, TFT rMfTR % RtftR FT 
FftTFTfr fT" FfFFTt FT TRET FT? % fPTP, q/TFFITTT TTTfsJFd 

FTTft |i e 

TtfefTF RcFTR STfllfFR |Wt I 
[Ro 141 /FT ° R 0 404/194/72-RTf o€toRtoRto] 
it o % o RTRTT, RFT RfFF I 
(Department of Revenue and Insurance) 
Income-tax 

New Delhi, the 18 th July 1972 

S.O. 3204. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (2) (b) of Section 80G of the Income-tax 
Act, 1961 (53 of 1961), the Central Government hereby 
notifies Shri Ram Temple, Chaphal, Distt. Satara 
(Maharashtra) to be of historic importance and a place 
of public worship of renown throughout the Maha- 
rashtra State for the purposes of the said section. 

[No. 143 (F. No. 170/38/72-IT(AI) .] 
B. MADHHA V AN, Under Secy. 




4530 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part IT— 


(priSTfE %%TT fEETE) 

(ete-4t) 

fc%t, 18 '7[TFf 1972 

4To WTo 3 20 4. — <ITE4T EfafTEE, 1961 (l961 
4T 43) 4t TTCI 80® 4t TWU (2) (w) £RT ETU 
‘TifTTET 4f ^PliE 4T% ^irfPT E <°hK GO EftTT, 
ETTT, fTTT ETFT (EflTl'^) 4T 441 tlKI % W%TET 
% f%T oflfrrfnT EfT 4T FT^TT EE(4 ETKT^ 4 ET4rf%4 
>JTT FT WiFi PETE ^TTSTTT Efa»jfEE TTht | I 

[fjo 143/TT o% ° 17 6/38/7 2-?TTf 4f(C[°Trf)] 

5ft o ETEEE, ETT EfET I 


CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECT TAXES 


Income-tax 


New Delhi, the 22nd March 1972 


S.O. 3205, — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 12G of the Income-tax Act, 19G1 (43 of 19G1), 
the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby makes the 
following addition to the Schedule annexed to its 
Notification No. 1 (F. No. 55/233/63-IT), dated 18th 
May, 1964. 


2, In the said Schedule the following Items shall be 
added below the existing entries: — 


i 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


63-A Employees and pensioners ist Income-tax 
ol Leipzig Evangelical Officer Salaries 
Luthern Mission, who Circle II, 

are resident of the Slate Madras, 

of Tamil Nadu and 
the Union Territory 
of Pondicherry cxclud-' 
ing Mahe and Yanam 
and including Karaikal. 


Inspecting Asstt. Commis- Appellate Asstt. Commissioner Commissioner of 


sioncr of Income-tax who 
has been appointed to 
perform the function of 
an Inspecting Asstt. Com- 
missioner of Income-tax, in 
respect of the Income-tax 
Officer referred to in Col. 3. 


of Income-tax who has 
been appointed to perform 
the function of Appellate 
Asst. Commissioner of 
Income-tax, in respect of 
Income-tax Officer referred 
to in Col. 3. 


Income -Tax 

Madras-II, 

Madras. 


63-B Employees and pensioners 
of The American Luthe- 
ran Church, Division of 
World Missions who 
arc resident of the 
States of Tamil Nadu 
and t he Union Terri- 
tory of Pondicherry 
excluding Mahe and 
Yanam and including 
Karaikal and Andhra 
Pradesh, 


ist Incomc-iax Inspecting Asstt. Commissioner 
Officer, S ala tes of Income-tax who has been 
Circle II, appointed to perform the 
Madras. function of an Inspecting 

Asstt, Commissioner of In - 
come -tax in respect of the 
Income-tax Officer referred 
to in Col. 3. 


Appellate Asstt. Comissioer Commissioner of 
of Income-tax who has been Income-Tax 
appointed to perform the Madras-II, 

functon of an Appellate Madras. 

Asstt. Commissioner of 
Income-tax in respect of the 
Income-tax officer, referred 
to in Col. 3. 


[No. 1/(F. No. 187/7/72-IT(AI).] 

(ETE-4P) 

E^ftcPft, 22ETT, 1972 

4fo tRTo 320 5. — srPT-4T EfafTTE, 1961 ( 1961 4T 43) 4t EKT 126 3TCT EEvT Ef4rEf 
TT EEtE 47ft grr, 4 p%T 5FET 4T TT# EEE% %° 1 (41° 4° 5 5/23 3/6 3-TT$ 5t) ET 18-5-64% 4qT?3 

ee^ 4 t % eetsipt fESEfafTT TfpTar 4 tet | i 

2. WT E^Tt % furmr SrfdfTTi 4 4TE PUTfTfVT ET TT4f[ : — 


6 3-4 


pTTfTff t#WtpT4T TEE 
fETE 4 E% 4%TTT> EV 
T7R-%Ffr Tt F rf% s r etit 
vpE eV ElfuEft EE 
TTJpaE % fwft fTE 
4 At'dMti ETo TP" EEE 
E#T f, eV fEEE 4TT4T 

eWte | I 


TEE WET- ETTE4 ETE-TPEr’JPE (fEflTTW) 
4T EfTTTtt Tt PTE 3 % fdfTT TIE- 
ETE Ef%T 4P EfE4!"ft 4 V ERE, EfIE4 
II, EcfTE I ETE4T ET^fE (f%ftSTE) 

4 TFT 4T Hi tin A J E 4 fTE 

fEETT fTTT EET t I 

3 


HgJE4 ETT-4P Rpff% ETE4T 
(eETt) ET PEE 3 % ET^ET, 

frfrr ettttp eTe- este-2, 

4Tft 4f ERE, EETE4 ESTE I 
ETE-4P EREE (EilT ) 

4 4eE 41 ETTE 4T% 

4 fTE fETEE f4ET 
EEI | I 



Sec, 3(li)1 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / AS VINA 79 , 1894 


4531 


l 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


6 3 -T T#, 

TTT qr-i f*J shH % ttij 
FTTTTl ?ft7 ikT-TEfl Tl 
tFf'T tit n^tr srTrTifV- 

■a 

%Ft TT TT 5 !T$T f 3 R% 
FRETT RTn Tfk RUT 
1 5 rk f^ETR F<l$+ 7 f Rfhr- 
fTrr|,!fN:?TttT ST^TTEET 
% fTTRfl % I 


vrm mc-TT rteif remt tejtt (f T tI- 
TfUTTTt ffpil) 3 fr FTR 3 E fa- 
tdR Bl%T ’T 1 T-T r TTfaFTTl ^V 

II, TaTR I RTRT, BRETR ETT-R 7 HT- 

TFT (f-rt^'n') % fET 

m im fetI % Ftt Fetft 
fTTT BBT & I 


RfEEF TEMPT TTTFT ITEHT 
(ttTt) Tt FTT 3 B TTTTTT, 

f rfttr ?nw Effemfr bstb- 2 , 

tIttrt, TfiTT stem *ram i 

bt (et>b) % 

firR TT RETT FT^T % 
fn T f-TTfT fuir BBT 

t I 


El trfaF](ERi 1 - 4 - 72 1 srrrFfl 5 trl l 


New Del hi, the 1 st June 1972 

S.O. 3206 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 126 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961 ), 
the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby makes the 
following addition to the Schedule annexed to its 


[To l/BBofjo 1 87 / 7 / 72 -TTf Cl (tj l)] 

Notification No. 1 (F. No, 55 / 233 / 63 -IT), dated 18 th 
May, 1964 as amended from time to time, 


In the said Schedule the following item shall be added 
below the existing entries: — 


I 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


65 Employees under the Income-tax Inspecting Assistant Corn- 

control of Deputy Officers, Salary misstoner of Income-tax, 
Director, Audit & Ac- Circle, Jaipur. Jaipur, Range II, Jaipur, 
counts, Posts & Tele - 
graphs, Jaipur. 

This notification will take effect from 12-6-1971. 


Appellate Assistant Com- Commissioner of 
missioner of Income-tax, Incometax, Jai- 

B-Rangc, Jaipur. pur. 


[No. 3 (F. No. 187 / 10 / 72 -IT(AI).] 
B. MADHAVAN, Under Secy. 
Central Board of Direct Taxes . 


Effrrft, 1 SjT, 1972 

«FTo WTo 3206 . — TET-FT ’ETFetPtTT, 1961 (l 9 Gl FB 43 ) F?I ST 7 I 126 ITT BTtT wfauTT *FT 
RifEl FT/I grr, B?R 9 T FT Rtf TEETt TlftEJERr Bo 1 (TT° Re 5 5/2 3 3/6 3 -Tlf ^t),rTrffT 18 - 5-04 R BBIES, 

EBE-TBR E 7 WT BRtftlT SETfjft if ^TITT fTEffBfTT TftTfT FTBI % I 


TFT STfjft R fTREET TFTFT'fr % ft# Ftt-tFtF IT FT Wtft FT##! : — 


1 2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

6 5 FlfRTTt ft TT-f# 4 BB #¥T- 

TUE-IT EftJFlft 

RUFF RET-FT BUTT 

RIIFE ErE-FT RTTFF 

ETE-FT 

tRst tV %'rr, btmttt, 

#TT bFft, 

(ffTtTB), RF57 Ft 

(utYt), 

TrTTT, 

RTJ 7 % ffE 3 EB it f 1 

TE37 1 

2, 4 Ttpj 7 1 

REIT 1 

^ITJT 1 


R? FTfagTET 12 - 6-1972 R BRT#t ^tft I 


[Ro 3 /(TTo Te 18 7 / 10/7 2 — ft (tj l)] 

#t° TTETT, tfR7 Rf#F, 
FEsftR SURE* FT *rrf I 



4532 


the gazette op India: October 21 , i9?2/asvina 29 , 1894 


[Part II — 


New Delhi , the 30th August 1972 

Subject:— Penalty Under Section 271 and 273 of the 
Income-tax Act, 1961 — Not to initiate proceed- 
ings in certain cases. 

Order under section 119(2) (a) of the Income-tax 
Act, 1961. 

S O. 3207. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause (a) of sub-section (2) of section 119 of the 
Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 196 1), the Central Board 
of Direct Taxes hereby directs that notwithstanding 
anything contained in the Income-tax Act, 1981 
(hereinafter referred to as the said Act), the Income- 
tax Officer shall not initiate any proceedings for the 
imposition of a penalty under section 271 or section 
273 of the said Act in respect of an assessment year if 
he is satisfied that the following conditions are ful- 
filled, namely: — 

(i) no regular assessment under the said Act has 
been made in the case of the assessee before 
the 1st day of September, 1972, in respect of 
any assessment year; 

(ii) the assessee has, prior to the issue of a 
notice to him under sub-section (2) of section 
139, or section 148, of the said Act for the 
relevant assessment year, furnished, before 
the 1st day of January, 1973, a return of his 
total income or the total income of any other 
person in respect of which he is assessable 
under the said Act: 

Provided that this condition shall not apply in re- 
lation to an assessment year in respect of 
which the asssssee has, before the 1st day of 
January, 1973, and prior to the issue of a 
notice under section 148 of the said Act, de- 
clared before the Income-tax Officer the in- 
come which has escaped assessment due to his 
failure to make a return under section 139 of 
the said Act; 

(lil) the total income as declared In the said re- 
turn by the assessee does not exceed the sum 
of Rs. 15,000; and 

(lv) the totai income as assessed under section 
143 of the said Act does not exceed the sum 
of Rs. 15,000. 

2. This order shall come Into force on the 1st day of 
September, 1972. 

[No. F. 284/41 /72-IT(Inv.).] 
J. R. RAMA IYER, Secy. 

df fa#, 30 SPT6d, 1972 

faw. — WE Slfftfddd, 1961 4ft UT7T 271 ftfa 
273 % 5pf[d STTftd, TpITT RTWf ft 



tnwttrWm, 1961 4ft rut 119 ( 2 ) ( 41 ) % snffa 

dfaw 

wrto WTO 3207 . — ?nw dfftfdTd, 1961 

( 1 96 1 4d 43 ) %f RTTT 1 1 9 4ft dTRTdr ( 2 ) 
% WX ( 41 ) JRT STTR TTfafitfr 4d ddfa 4# jjn;, 


%vffa dtddT 4TT ftli ^<T^ITn dlj ftdl $ 

% 5TTWT wfafafifi 1961 (fail fr/fa TT d T d T4d 

dfftfddd Ra£T ddT if fa# did % $Tft §tt tft, OTdTT 

’Ufa+lO, dfa RR4d RETSTPT ff[ ddl | fa fardfafad # 
'jfl 47# fa# fddfdd dft 4ft dTdd ddd #jfddd 
4ft BTTTT2 7 1 dT ffTTT 2 7 3% 4#d fa# drfftfa 
% fa 1 ) 4dftdl^t ffi df dlft 4 #tT, ; Udfa ; — 

(1) faftl fd#dfi # 4ft dldd, 1972 % fadtdT, 

% !m fad % fa# fa## % RTR% ft 
d4d ^fa fdd-M % t#d fa^thd faRidd 

dift f%dl ddT 

(2) fa## ft d4d #lfddd 4ft RTO 139 4ft 
dddldT (2) dT RITT 148 % 5#d gftdd 
fa#d # % fan; ret tt gmr d# ^ift ft 

1 9 7 3 4ft dddfa % ddd fad ft SPlftt 
JR" WT dl faftr ST ? d °dfad 4ft, fad4ft 
dTdd dd ddd dfftfadd % 5#d faftfad 
ft# I, fd dTd 4d faddd ft fan t : 1773 
d? dd w fa#d # % RTdvar ft # 
#ft fad# dTdd fa## ft 1973 4ft 
dd# % d*PT fad ftfa d4d dfftfadd 4ft 
RTCT 148 % #fa gmT d# $fa ft 
dTddT #14# % IPTtST dd did 4ft ftfadl 

TT ftr ft, fat d4d dfafadd %r tjnr 139 % 
#fa fad# ftft ft dd% dddd dfft % 
4ddd fa#td ft dd df 

( 3) fa## IRT d4d fad# ft ddl fttfad 
did 15,000 do 4ft #d ft dfftd # 

t; ftfa 

( 4 ) #d dfafddd 4ft SfiRT 143 % Stifl'd d«fT 
fasffftdt RTd 15, 000 do ftft drfa ft 
dfftd d^f % 1 

2, d? 4n%41 197 2 % fddfdd % Tdd fad ft 5RJW 
fttdT I 

[fto Tie 284/4 1/7 2— 4TT^ (#)] 

fto TTdT?Ddd, dfftd 
ftfatd dm afrf 1 


COLLECTORATE OP CUSTOMS & CENTRAL EXCISE, COCHIN-3- 

Cuntrai, Excises 
Cochin the $th November, 1971 

S.O. 3208.— In exercise of the powers conferred on me in form R. T. 5 in respect of the essential raw materials 

under Rule 173 G(4) of the Central Excise Rules, 1944, listed in column 4 of the Table annexed hereto for the 

I hereby prescribe maintenance of Raw material excisable goods mentioned in column 3 of the Table 

accounts in form IV and submission of quatci ly return w.e.f. the date of issue of this Notification, 



Sec. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASV1NA 29, 1894 


4533 





Table 



SI. 

No. 

Tariff Item 

No. 

Description 


Name of important Raw materials. 


I 

2 

3 


4 



1. 1(2) 

2. iB 


7 


< .i 

7 10 

8 ix 

9 n A 


Khandsari Sugar ....... 

Prepared or preserved foods: 

1. Sausages and the like of meat, meat offal or animal 
blood ; 

2. Other repared or preserved meat; 

3. Meat extract and meat juices; 

4. Prepared and preserved Fish 

5. Crustaceans and Molluscs 

6. Soups and broths 

7. Bottled and canned fruits. 

S. Jams, Jellies and Marmalades .... 

9. Fruit syrups, crushes, squashes, fruit juice, cordials, 
ready to serve beverages but excluding aerated waters. 

jo. Corn flakes, oats and beans. 

11. Tomato ketch-up 

12. Dehy irated peas packed in cans or foil packets. 

13. Milk powder but excluding such powder specially 
prepared for feeding ofinfants. 

14. Condensed milk whether sweetened or not. 

15. Preparations with a basis of flour of starch, of malt 
extract, or of malted barley, and milk foods, which 
by simply mixing with or boiling in milk or water 
can be used for making beverages, invalid foods and 
gruels whether or not containing cocoa, but exclud- 
ing baby foods that is to say, foods, specially pre- 
pared for feeding ofinfants. 

16. Tablejellies 
Jelly crystals 
Custard Powdrs 
Ice cream powders 

17. Synthetic syrup 

18 Ginger beer and ginger ale 

19. Giger cock-tail 

Motor Spirit 


Kerosene^ 

Refined Diesel Oils and vaporising oils 
Diesel Oils NOS , 

Furnace oil 

Asphalt, Bitumen and Tar 
Petroleum Products NOS 


Sugar cane or massecuite which-ever is used las the 
s' ar ting material. 

Meat, offal and blood as the case may be. 

Meat 

Meat 

Fish 

Basic material preserved 

Main material from which prepared 

Sugar 

Sugar if preserved in sugar; otherwise, material pre- 
served. 

(i) Fruit juice/ fruit pulp. 

(ii) Sugar. 

Corn or oat or beans 
Tomato juice or tomatoes. 

Peas in pods. 

Whole fresh milk/skimmed milk as the case may be. 

Fresh milk/and sugar. 

Basic ingredient. 


jelatinel 

Jelly . 

Starch 
Milk Powder 
Sugar 
Ginger 
Ginger 

(i) Crude Oil. 

(ii) Coal-tar/Crude benzol for Benzene, Benzol, Tolue 
and solvent naptha. 

Crude oil 

Crude oil. 

Crude oil 

Crude oil 

Crude oil 

Crude oil 


10 14 


Paints & Varnishes : 

1. Zinc oxide,red lead, white lead and titanium dioxide 
white. 

2. Aluminium paste. 

3. Dry colours, namely the following; lead chromes and 

Burnswick green. 

4. Dry distempers/cement based water paints. 

5. Oil bound distemper 

6. "7.'.- •>•--. 'V r- for leather 

7. ■. c . ■. ■' u ’ 

8. J 1 ■ . 1 1 • 

9. Stiff paints 

10. Ready mixed paints and enamels. 

11. Dispersed organic pigments ordinarily used for the 
painting of textiles, whether in the form of powder, 
paste or in emulsion. 

12. Varnishes 

13. Bitumens and coaltar blacks 

14. Nitrocellulose lacquers clear and pigminted and 
nitrocellulose ancillaries in liquid form. 

15. Nitrocellulose ancillaries in semi-solid and pasty 

form. 

16. C jllulosic lacquers not otherwise specified. 


Principal starting material: 

Aluminium powder. 

Lead chromate/Prussian Blue. 

Pigment cement] 

Pigment or oil 
Pigment and Caseine 
Synthetic resins or emulsion, j 
Pigment. 

Pigment. 

Pigment, oil and resins 

Organic pigments like pthalocyanines. 


Resins 

Bitumen 

Nitrocellulose] 

Nitrocellulose 

Cellulose acetate/cellulose butyrate 



4534 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASV1NA 29, 1894 


[Part II — 



ii 14HH 


12 17 


Fertilisers : 

(.i) Urea Raw naptha/ammonia/lignite/coal/carbondioxidc/ 

calcium cyn amide. 

( 11 ) Calcium Ammonium Nitrate . . . Ammonia and limostone/dolemite. 

(iil) Superphosphate ...... Rock phosphate and sulphuric acid. 

(iv) Ammonium nitrate Ammonia and nitric acid. 

(v) Ammonia sulphate ..... Sulphur/sulphuric ecid/emmonia. 

(vi) Double salt (ammonia sulphate nitate) . Gypsyum, coal, nitric acid. 

(vii) Granulated mixed fertilizers. . . . Urea, M.P. tash, sulphate of ammonia, Di-ammonla 

sulphate, super phosphate. 

(viii) Ammonium chloride .... Common Balt/Naptha. 

(ix) Diammonium Phosphate . . . Ammonia, rock and sulphur. 

Paper— all sorts including paste board, mill board, ( 1 ) Chemical wood pulp and/or bamboo, baggaze 
straw board and card board. rags, waste paper, straw or any other starting 

material for making pulp. 

(li) for corrugatod board, the i portant raw material 
would be corrugated paper. 


13 

I8A . 

. Cotton Yarn .... 




. ( 1 ) Cotton . 

14 

19 

. Cotton Fabrics. 

* 

■ 


. Co Cotton yarn. 

fii) Cotton fabrics for processess of cotton fabrics 

15 

22A 

Jute Manufactures . 

• 

* 


. Jute. 

16 

33 ^ . 

Domestic Electric Appliances: 

1. Vaccum cleaners. 




. Electric Motors. 


2. Floor polishers Electric Motors or Polishing Agllators. 

3. Grinders and Mixers Electric Motors. 

4. Juice Extractors Electric Motors. 

5. Cream Whippers & egg beaters. . . . Electric Motors. 

6. Clothes washing Machines .... Hie ctrlc Motors or Agilators. 

7. Dish washing Machines ..... Electric Motors. 

8. Automatic smoothing iron flttod with device for Thermostat or Heating elements, 
automatic regulation of temperature. 

9. Geysers, all types Thermostats and Heating elements. 

10. Water Boilers Heating elements. 

11. Shavers Electric Motors or Cutter set. 

12. Hair Dryers, Hair Curlers Permanent waving 

apparatuses and curling tong heaters.. , . Electric Motors or Coils and plates. 

13. M usage apparatus . . , Transform mar coll and applicator. 

1 4. Kettles, smeopans, stoametsco/feoniakers(includ- 

Ing percolators of the domestic type), cookers, 

egg boilers, frying pans. ..... Heating elements. 

15. Toasters ....... Heating Elements. 

16. Hot plates, cooking ranges, grillers, bolllngplates, 

plate warmers, food warming trays, food warming 

trollies, hot food cabinets. .... Heating elements or control devise. 

17. Coffee roasting appliances .... Heating elements or Body. 

18. Room he iters fltte i with air circulation device. Heating elements and electric motors. 

19. Ice ere im oh irnerj, or Ice cream Freezers . Electric Motors. 

23 . Domestic ovens of all types .... Heating elements or Thermostats 


17 42 Pilfer proof caps 1 ...... Tinned sheets. 

18 43 Wool Tops ...... . Raw Wool. 


[No. 4 / 71 .] 

KAUSALYA NARAYANAN, Collector 

'TFTTC'T 

5 dd«K, 1971 

tjffo 3208, — TfTTTT Pr^TH 1 r-fl 1944 % (TO 173-3ft( 4) % STUFfa TTTfT TFTtR 

gij if JT7T SIT^T IV if sfTs^T RUT TF TTTHTT' I T tTRT EFT d l Pd^ T if TrUR 3 if WT4V4* 

RUT % TUTST if ?TTT-€f- 5 Jj- #qTf7UT RfaTF>T 'FT 5JTipffa’T'JJ % RTff f%T[ % PlHl'b ?T TOT 

V 




Sec. 3 (li) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29. 1894 


4535 



E<> 


SIITWT TR ETEt % TR 

TT To 



l 2 

2 

4 

1 1(2) 

qWTpft ETTT 

*RT STTTT ZTT Et ?ft TRfar TR «fr ITT 3f 5TTTZ 



$t 1 

2 1*T 

#TTC SRTT EfRftR ’Tm : 

TR, TTTffRSre SpTTT RTEtsETWP^t 


1. TR fTTst (eRr) SRST ?E ET? TT TR 



B i^fir°V5 , 'd 5RTT RJ tee 



2. SET ^TTT STTTT EferfeE Tfe 

TR 


3. Hrhfr ttt tot tr 

TR 


4. #TIT SIER qlTCfeTcr TETft 

tbrV 


5. ’jEfferR sftr tRewt 

TferfeRT JJR TRtft 


6. EYRT Stk 3]T 

*J55T TR fetR TTK fTTT TTTT % 1 


7- "ft EE TT SETTT ftr®TT «TT ER 

sfefr 


8. JJTRT, TZift cTCTF TTT 

^feft Tfa sfeft ^r Tf<rftT5T SRTT TferftR tr; 1 


9. eR) % r tRt, *hidiR ERt % fern 

1. TRf T Tr/fiTt % TT 


(ERE R) , SETT Tt RZTT ERR Rll 

2. 


1 0. TEp eRw, eR sfR EtTTTR 

TT# SRTT STW EfTT^tT 


ii. rer (^-m/wswt) 

WHdl 3TTTT 


12 . y^ifEZ irer-feRr srw ter (ee^z) 

wsx 3ft fenft 


$TR *f TR 



1 3. $R ^jf TE5 fESJ-TtRE % far; fTftW: fzfez 

yjfTTT ERT ^T/TTT JTT SETWT ^t 1 





1 4. Rsi fen gw srtt set ttPtt yu 

TRT ^/rT TtTt 


15. TWT SRRR TO Tt ER SfR |R STR 

RT etRet 

tN 


^ SET IT E #TTT T^J<( RzTt $T SRTT zRt 



T TTTRTrT.' RTH STTTT ZTR% T TEE tR ZR 



W Et Et % ¥E E STJW ?t Z% "tEtRi” E%E 


PIT T%T ERE; TR TT^TT ETf^ fTWE: 



fR?[ Ttror T Rtr RRe SE^K Tt RsTT 



16. JRrzrt 

fe^rfdE 


EZfft qTTElff 

^ j 


TTET gTT ^of (ZR5T) 

rr] 


(snwRr) 



1 7. ERfer eEe 

- rv-,cv 


1 8. fETT fTTT Sift feTT ife 

ETTT 


19. RET TIT4W 

STTTTj 

3 6 

EtZZ fere 

1. 'MhR^e/'RR PR 



2. Tlddl l/dTdT, TRtR TRJT % Id L{ ?jfR 



ETI fWTT Er^f 

4 7 

fe^t TT %E 

SETfWE ^R 

5 8 

H(V-$d fe^E Ee sfir TRftT Ee 

EHpt.^d/T'^T ?R 

6 9 

fe^E Ee Tteo sffo tRo 

srrf^Fr/ERT r tR 




4536 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASV1NA 29, 1894 


[Part II — 


1 2 3 


4 


7 lo iter 

8 1 1 ITWET fad fan clTT 

9 1 1W pm TcTTdT t^To *fto qff 

io 14 "^r nfVt snrfrsr 

1. farr ?nwr^, ttt rfirr irifa fctPm 

?rrwiTi-^ 

2. HRijfWT (tfq-) fcd 

3. 

fanfafaw sffa Ttm ?fk TrffaT-jm 

4. ^ srraifer spjfrr rt 

s. ITT 

0. TT? # fafaPlT ^ fan? TTfa 7T (^ld<fa*fa'd) 

7. 'HTlW VFRH' T*T 

8. fafarr (;ffar) 

9. qrstr fad 

1 0. #1TTT faffa-TT ifaVfa T>R 

Ml 

1 1. fafattfl HHITpOT RTT irrenTUT: sfT? T1T% if 
sr^rir, ■^jfirT'OT^rTtT (ptrpt) 


12. tItt (wrfro) 

1 3. fanfapT Hffa qffWIT TfaTCT 

v» 

14. fappT^TfaT STTHST ($ppf) 
fTH® qfr TpTT rf*TT 

*ffalcRT «T if 

1 5 fa’jfa T^'l T ^^T'T^JfT cPTT ^TT <y'i if 
1 0. ^Tfrfar+ TWr TTTT srfalT dff 

11 14^^ TfdT 

1. ^ffarr 

2. $f&PPT ’TTTpTTT farfd 

3. TfTTTTR^d 

4. spftfarm fanes' 

5. M'HlfaTI WI 

6. RIT (ifqtfTTT fal^d) 

7. J ttZ* fqf-TT T^TP 

8 . Hl+ftfaill TTlTTs' 

9. fa HPTtffoPT TiRpfe 

12 17 qrpTT-Tnff 5RK, fcd afttf far aftf , ^fl qtl TIT 

wi *rfaci i 


HrrfR^r/qRqT 4r 


HTTTfarqr TT1TT 

HfTijfaTP ^ 

<?0« Tfad^^f%7ppffvTT 
fplife ifrfc 
rt (fpfafc ) ?p£p!rr ifar 
faifa’d Hftr^iffar 
?f?pfrfer ^faRT HpTTT ^TTWJflT 
fqrfe 
faired 

fanfare ifar Hik ^fansr 
5TFnffar TTT ^ fffa fPfaHHHf 

^falTT 

fadftpT 

*A 

far^fa^sr 

fajf ff^ffaT 

rfared/fa^Ttw 

"fv^n TT T4T J 51 Ttf TTT/ faPTl \<.j TTf TT T j TT'T'T fjq% 
fTT/^faTTTT farTPTT^r 
nfaffarr cm ^ qrr q^R/m irrn 
qfTffid' cm wqffa trt 
STfafaPTT TTT farf^ l*fare 
afercr/rfsrqffa HTRi/farnfaTT 
fT-fTT, qftTTT, fafar iTprr 
*fWT. TTo TtdrsT, T?%d iTTfiTTl, ftHUftfaTT 
TRfe, gqr q>r?%d 
?ITOTRr tte/tiw 
m-h I fa-Ti I < i =t/ cm TtRl 

(i) Trflrfar qiR5 ^/nw ^rt faqi T^f 
TT’T'ST ^TfT IT TIT TTT4 4) fapr jqvq- q7rf{f|- | 

(ii) qf far* turt^ qq^r qff^- 
qrrarsr ?fqT i 



Sec. 3(ii)1 


4537 


the gazette of ind 1 a ; October 21, 1971 /asvIna 29, 1&94 


1 2 3 

4 

13 18-tr grftmTT 

(i) *f 

14 19 gcft TOT 

(i) e4T etet 


(li) ETlT f<TE?E % f'TE 1 

15 22 -iT frfTrrfTT 

EE 

16 33-Eft E^T fETjE ETWT : 


1 . tfE EEfarf 

f^RTE EtET- 

2. T^TTfVsizf 

ftW Et2T EEBT TTfEpEE EBft^EE 

3. Eiw4 EV fwr?f 

fE^E EtEZ 

4. EE-TE 

fEEE Efer 

5 . e?ie Eftrtf sftr ett eet 

fE^E ElET 

6. 'ti'-fSf tT'Tl u EE 

fEl[E EteT EE El ttbIEEE 

7. *146 T") 1 £ EE 

fafT ElET 

8. TfEp'-T EJjfftE ETETE, ^EftpE-ETTfiE fVfiTEjTpTj 

EEfct? Btz 33T B'TTTE 

EE E EEE 


9. ^EE-EE ETR % 

EEfc^ Ek ftfZE EWTW 

10. TT2T EUFTlf 

^tfEE TlErvui 

1 1. OT 

fa^E ETZZ EEET TET EE 

1 2. |eT flE#, |eT ETElft^ #f%E trsn^E 

f%EE EtET EW BEHCET tffT <%EE 

eTt eTee m 


1 3 . RlfEST ETft f r% EEE 

^TE'ET^T BBT^B E'IT 

l 4. %E?ft ETWE ETlft EElf (eTE ftFTE 

^VftlE ETEEW 

% TTTFteE Ef^r) 


15 . 

ftf'EE EBBTTE 

1 6. qTE <%EE, Tf%E t ? EE fEEE ®ET^fEE ^E 

§1fZB ETFTB EEET fEEEW tf-TE 

^EE ETEll, ETeE EE °E\4 ET?ft EWftET EfEE 


EE TCEET'-ft ?lEt EE EtEE #f<^E 


1 7- ETlft Ttf^IE EETTE 

^YTee EBETB EEET Epft 

1 8. EE sftsT?, ETE EET^F EEE EEE 

PltjE EtEE 

1 9. ETTE #E EEET ETW^E BftEE 

f%^E ElET 

20. EE^ ^-E'ffT BETZ 

?fEE EWEB EEET EEf^E 

17 42 fqWT!JE# c E 

fZEBft E^Z 

18 43 SE HTHT 

T^ET j>E 


4 / 71 .] 

TttHEE EET^Ef | 




THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 , 1972/ASVlNA 29, 1894 


[East II — 


^ fatTfirfar Tf srftmfwir 1-4-1970 

*T 'in 1 <j «HTdl % 

TTTo TTTpWFT JJSqTTT 

(l) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) 


453 $ 


COLLECTORATE OF CENTRAL EXCISE. CALCUTTA 
& ORISSA 

Central Excise 
Calcutta, the 19 th June 1971, 

S.O. 3209.— In. exercise of the powers conferred by 
me by Rule 5 of the Central Excise Rules, 1944, I here- 
by authorise the Assistant Collectors of Central Excise, 
Calcutta and Orissa to exercise the powers of “Col- 
lector" under proviso (ill) to sub-rule (1) of Rule 173G 
of the Central Excise Rules, 1944. 

[No. 2-CE/1971.] 
N. MOOKHERJEE, Collector, 

T7<TT?-ypF RBTfTTHT, TTTTT sflT Til FT 
THfT-TJTT 

TWTT, 19 oFT, 1971 

i'(d' o Sit o 3 20 9. — liuflT drH ie TJcfi fT9 H 1 4 ?fl , 
1944 % ftipT 5 ITCr SFTtT ^TfeRTt TT 5TT>r 4NTT f?T, 
ft, TcTlT-^F RfimT FRT^dli, ^ TffaT 

47t, %nffar RFTTT fTTTFFft, 1944 % fWT 1 7 3Tt 
% TqrfdTR (i) % (in) % mfrr 

^ TlPfcTTl TT TTlT % f^fT rrffSJFfT TlfirTT TrrAl 

J l 
S 1 

[Re 2-Tfo £o/l97l] 
TTRo rj'fsff, TT42T I 


OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX 
VIDARBHA AND marathwada 

(Income-tax) 

Nagpur, the 1st April 1970 

S.O. 3*io.— The Commissioner of Income-tax Vidarbha 
and Marathwada, Nagpur hereby creates the following new 
charges of Income-tax Officers in his own office with effect from 
1-4-1970 F.N. 


S.No. 

Designation 

Headquarters 

CD 

(2) 

( 3 ) 

I. 

Income-tax Officer, 
Headquarters, 
(Administration) 

Nagpur. 

2 . 

Income-tax Officer, 

Do. 


Headquarters, 

(Judicial). 

Do. 

3. 

Income-tax Officer, 

Headquarters, 

(S.I.B.&P.R.) 




[No. l-IT(NGP)/70.] 
AVTAR SINGH, 
Commissioner of Income-tax. 


tTFTffiT ErrqTT TT TFlfaT, fTTR Rtj 
TFFfT, 1 Slfcr, 1970 

r[Ro?fto 3210. — rnmprsiFjFT, fatrtf tfiv Rrra- 
«cm, tftjt 'FFrfTsr $ <iFm 


1 

mziTT trftid' 1 0 , 


2 . 

zjWFTT, 

(smUTT) 1 
mwr trftjjrp?r, 


3 . 

^TFRT, 

(^Tlfddi) | 

mTTT iqfiFFKt, 

•TPTJT 



TRT3T 

[ 4 o tflo fo (uiqq i <) / 70] 
^TTfriT faff, WFjqd 1 

.Income-tax 


Nagpur, the 8th May 1970 

S.O. 3211. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (1) of Section 124 of the Income-tax Act, 
1961 (43 of 1901) the Commissioner of Income-tax, 
Vidarbha and Marathwada, Nagpur hereby directs crea- 
tion of the following new offices: 


Designation Headquarters 


1 . Income-tax Offlccer, Gondla. 
A-Ward. Gondia 

2, Income-tax Officer. Gondia 

B-Ward, Gondia 


This notification shall take effect from 10th May, 
1970. 

[No. 2 -IT(NGFl/ 70 .] 

STTflTT 

4WJT, 8 Rt£, 1970 

TtRo Rto 3211. — NmT SlftlPFTR, 1961 
( 1961 m 43) OTT 124 ( l) <TRT TTtl 

srfwtfr wr ^Trr ^r, hwft wfjw, fartf iff? 
RTTMI5T, 4TTJT Ud ^4 kI PhtP-I Rsu R(t 4iiqf<H4 "ft 
ddf^f ffil fu^ *ti <*dl : 



TOfffRFT 




1, 

1 


2. 

1 

iftfcrr 


tT? nftFjTRT 10-5-19 70^t5mRft5>fI I 

[Ro 2-?ITo tpo (RRTo)/70] 



Sec. 3 (in] 


4539 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


8 . 0 . 3212 . — In exercise of the powers conferred on 
him under sub-section ( 2 ) of Section 124 of the 
Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1901 ) and all other powers 
enabling him in this behalf, the Commissioner of 
Income-tax, Vidarbha and Marathwada. Nagpur here- 
by cancels with eil'cct from 10 th May, 1970 . the Noti- 
fication No, 52 -lT(MPy 68 issued on 8 th January, 1969 
regarding jurisdiction of Additional Income-tax Officer, 
Collection, Nagpur and Income-tax Officer, Assessment- 
X, Nagpur. 

[No. 4- IT (NAG) /70.] 

Nt» 32 i 2 . — KIWI 1961 ( 1961 

tt 43 ) tnrr 124 TTtrm (2) % 


3% sttoi Tfhc 

TTptddi TT TT4 £1 tTmt *TTW, fastf 
iRTSTTfr, NTT *TPm srftTTrff, fitfiTT, 

fiTfiTT srfsmrt' tt— 1 0, finrjz, 

WfNTlfTdT T *nt 4 dTCttT 8-1-69 5 |t 4V fit *44- 

4o 52-HT°T°(R°T°)/l68 10-5-70 ft 

qdfiRT TTdT $ I 

[4° 4-'ffro T° (^IT^To ) / 70 ] 


S. O.3113. — In exorcise of the power* conferred on him under sub section (1) ofSection 124 of the Income-tax Act, 1961(43 of 1961) 
*nd all othar powers enabling him in this behalf and In modification of tho Notification No, 37-IT (M.P)/68 dated 4-9-1968, the Com- 
missioner of Income-tax, Vidarbha and Mara hwada, Nagpur directs that the Inc ome-tax Officers shown in Column 3 of iho Schedule 
below shall exercise powers of an Incom -tax Offic t >n respect of areas, persons or classes of persons, incomes or classes oflncoirus and/or 
casos or classes of cases falling within th; jarisdic ion shown agiinst thfir names in C0I.4 of the schedule below other than those whose 
cases have been specifically transferred u/s s(jA)of tho Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 or u/»i27 of the Income-tax Act, 19&1 to any other 
Income-tax Offices. 


Schedule 


Si. Name of Circle Designation of I.T.O. Jurisdiction 

No. 


1. Nagpur Circle .... Incomo-tax Officer, Aascssment-II, Nagpur All porsons within the areas comprising of 

Bhandara District excluding Gondia 
Tahsil. 

Except : those assessable by:— 

1. Income-tax Officer, Asstt. I, Nagpur. 

2. Income-tax Officer, Salary Circles, Nagpur 

or 

3. InCome- r ax Officer, Salary Circle & Re* 

funds, Nagpur. 

This Notification shall tako cffoct from 105- 1970. 


TT 0^032 1 3.-NIW^ ?rf4ftFItT, 196l(l961Tr43) 

%tsrrcr 1 2 4 tT iJTErnj ( i) % *r 44 r snrfT srfwrt sflr 
W fafaxl ^4 iOT TTFt tmfc fi" 4 T W*I ftfepff TT TTFl 
grr STTT %o 37-WT4T (tT°To)/68, 

fiKfST 4-9-68 %1 ^TFTf^T gfT, SrrTfR STPJTd - 

fad4 srk Trxr&rrfT, fatw %rr £ % 4r% 4r tC 

% ?cF4 3 4 NFTTT vfabTTf, tTT RTfi-ft 

% f%?r, 47 trKdtT wFErffiTT, i 922 %t 3 TTr s( 7 t) 
% 5nft*T RT RTRRR 1961 tTHT 127% NSffa 

f%tfl tyrM tTfiTTR TFlfvPTt %t % n-oPed RR 

f%rr tret iff, tfr 4 trf % PRR 4 4 TT% fiTRT % 
rtr% srfErTrfar % 4 %r m% sr/rf, 3 trf%rff 
rt 5 trf%rtfr % mr rt rtr % r 4 4 k/RT RWTf rt 
H iRifli % rrT % Trt %, rtttt iq-fEniKt %t tnfTTRf tt 





TT 

%o 

uf%vT TI 

TPT 

TT 'Rlffl'dR 

NfjfrrfTflT 

1 

2 

3 

4 

1. 

?rfy- 

tfiferr %T 


TTCT, fdyU u l-II fiftTTT nrttt 


RTRRR %t fiTlfTtS 


[No. S-IT(NAGj/70.] 

12 3 4 


ri% « 4 irf 
% RtrR % aRffd 1 

RR% ffRTT — 

1. siftr 

fdT'K’I-l, fiTJT|T | 

2 . mqTT sq-ftTNTtt, 

*rr<T- 

m 

3. UTO 
TTT iTf%T tltf 
Rfd^TT, fiTtTJT 
ORT fTdfTTtT $ I 


tr? 10-5-1970 % TfiRfr fEfr 1 


[ 4 o 5 -TTT oT°(fiR,)/ 70 ] 



454° 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


tPART tl — 


Nagpur th May 1970 

S.O.3214, — In exercise of tile powers conferred on him 
by sub-section (1) of Section 123 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 
(43 of 1961) and all other powers enabling him in this behalf 
and in supersession of all other previous notifications on the 
subject, the Commissioner of Income tax, Vidarbha and Marath- 
wada, Nagpur, hereby directs that the Inspecting Assistant 
Commissioner of Income tax as specified in column No. 2 of 
the schedule annexed hereto shall perform their functions jn 
respect of such areas, of such persons or class of persons, of 
such income or class of income and/or of such cases or class of 
cases asis specified in column No. 3 of the schedule here below: 

Provided that they shall also perform such functions in 
respect ot such areas, of such persons or class of persons, of such 
incomes or class of incomes, or of such cases or class of cases 
as have been or may be a signed by the Central Board of Direct 
Taxes o r the Commissioner of Income tax to any Income tax 
Officer subordinate to them. 

Provided furrner that they shall not perform their functions 
in respect of such persons or such cases as have been or may be 
assigned to the following — 

x, Incometax Officer, Special Estate Duty, Cum-I.T. Circle, 
Akola 

2. Incometax Officer, Special Estate Duty, Cum-I.T. Circle, 
Aurangabad 

3. Incometax Officer, Central Circ'e-I, Nagpur 

4. Incometax Officer, Central Circle-II, Nagpur 

5. Incomeux Officer, Central Circle, III, Nagpur 

6. Incometax Officer, Central CircleTV, Nagpur 

7. Incometax Officer, Central Circle, V, Nagpur 

Schbdulu 


Sh Designation Jurisdiction in respect of areas, per- 

No. sons or class of persons, Incomes or 

class of incomes and/or cases or class 
of cases 


12 3 

1 Inspecting Assistant Assessable by the following Income- 
Commissioner of In- tax Officers 

cometax. Range, I, 

Nagpur 

1. I.T.O. Asstt , I. Nagpur. 

2 . I.T.O. Asstt, III, Nagpur. 

3. I.T.O. Asstt, IV, Nagpur. 

4. I.T.O. Asstt, VI- Nagpur. 

5. I.T.O. Asstt, VII, Nagpur, 

6 . I.T.O, Asstt, VIII, Nagpur. 

7. I.T.O. Asstt , IX- Nagpur. 

8 . I.T.O. As3tt XII, Nagpur. 

0. I.T.O. Asstt, XIV, Nagpur. 

10. I.T.O. Collection, Nagpur. 

11. I.T.O. Administration, Nagpur. 

12. I.T.O. City Circle, Nagpur. 

2 Inspecting Assistant Assessable by the following ITO.s 
Commissioner of In- 
cometax, Range, II, 

Nagpur 

1. I.T.O. Asstt , II, Nagpur 

2. I.T.O. Asstt, V, Nagpur 

3. I.T.O. Asstt.. XI, Nagpur. 

4. I.T.O. Asstt. XIII, Nagpur, 

•r. I.T.O. A-Ward, Gondia. 

6 . I.T.O. B-'Ward, Gondia. 

7. 1 st I.T.O. Salary Circle, Nagpur. 

8 . 2nd I.T.O. Salary Circle, Nagpur. 

9. 3rd I.T.O. Salary Circle, Nagpur. 

10. I.T.O., A-Ward, Wardha. 

11. I.T.O., B-Ward, Wnrdba. 

T2. I.T.O., C-Ward, Wardha. 

13. I.T.O., D-Ward, Wardha. 

14. I.T.O., Yeotmal. 


1 


2 


3 


3. Inspecting Assistant Assessable by the following Income 
Commissioner of In- tax Officers, 
cometax, AkolaRange, 

Akola. 

t. I.T.O., A-Ward, Akola. 

2. I.T.O., B-Ward, Akola. 

3. I.T.O., C-Ward, Akola. 

4- I.T.O., D-Ward, Akola. 

5. I.T.O., A-Ward, Amrioti. 

6. I.T.O., B-Ward, Amraoti. 

7. I.T.O.. C-Ward, Amraoti, 

8. I.T.O., D-Ward, Amratof. 

9. I.T.O , E-Ward. Amraoti. 

10. I.T.O.Khamgaon, 

11. I.T.O., A-Ward, Aurangabad. 

12. I.T.O.. B-Ward, Aurangabad. 
13- I.T.O., C-Ward, Aurangabad. 

14. I.T.O., D Ward. Aurangabad. 

15. I.T.O., E-Ward, Aurangabad. 

16. I.T.O., A-Ward, Nandea. 

17. I.T.O., B-Ward, Nanded. 

18. I.T.O., C-Ward, Nanded. 

19. I.T.O., Eatur, 


This mnficition shall take effect from 1-6-1970. 

[No. IT-3CNAG/70IJ 

BTBJT, 1 1 1970 

BB°BTo3214. — mwrsrftlftm,i96l( 196M43) 
BitSTPI 12 3B?t3WTT( 1 ) CTTT 3% STCrT BlfaBBt W 
fffforr -3% BTrtf BBTff Btvft STB *Dft Wfffcpff BB STTtB 
|tr fa.-pip , r r # trtfr SEqTfff Bit *rfa- 

’TRT TTT fit, N1NTT NPTIfl, BftT B ^ABISI , BTByr 

srfjfft %*btb bbbt 

2 if BBT B^TBBT BTBTT ’TT'J'TT (ffffWB) 

f,TTr, FB Affirm NET BT sqTip 

5lV/BT frff BTRBf TT BWTt % % 3T^ 3, lift *3% =ft^ 

tt 5 TB 'jrr % tbtb 3 3 fafBfe: ft, bbb fcB't bb 

TFTB TtB : 

Trwj ff ^3 mi t, rr$ SBfBBBf BT vrfkm't % b 3 
3TPT BT 3TB % Bit BT $3 BTB^ff BT 3133^ % ^ BT^ it, 

3cWTT Btf 4KI 33% HTSftBTB 

fBBTt BTBBE; BfsTBirtt B% 3t% BIT BT B^ft 3TET, fETt 
BB'tff'TTBBBT^}-: 

3TB| Slk 3t fT t irSr HBfBTBf % BT ^ BPEfft $ BT% 

3 fi?3t B>T 3FT3 3^t B>%%, Bft Pf M P-| Rif T BTfffBBftTft 

B% bIb B^ f BT B 3 ^ BTIT ; — 

1 TTfimfr, BTBBT-BJvBT, rr% qroBIo 

3f%3, BTIBT I 

2 BTBTT NTBERt, f33T BTR^T-^SBi, >r% BTo Bio 
Bf%vT, sftTBNK I 

3 3TBT3 BpBBBTt, BBTET BTBBT I 

4 BTTWT BfilTTfr, %T^tB bTBwI, II, BTBJT I 

5 31WT BfaBffTt, %BTfB 3f%tT, III, 3FFJT 1 



9wv 3l«0] 


THE GAZETTE Of INDIA: OCTOBER 2J, 1972/ASVINA 2«, 1894 


4541 


6 mrere trfamet, frirr tHtt, IV, tpt|< 112 3 

7 wrere 57% wet, %-ftT tTtt, V wTje 1 


m qnf*TJR ^m, srfMf m 2 * * * * 7 wfarnef 

tfo % wf, 5 TTT W 5 TT-T %’ mff/ 

TTHT# TT BW# % TTf % 37 % 
ef sTfEmfem i 


3 v mro wfawet, fmrf- 
737 XI, TF 7 TT | 

V errwel wfamft, ftraf- 
7*7 "XIII, THITT ’| 

' 'O 

5. err we erfsmft, qr-mi, 
ifffwr 1 

e. uvui wFferrrft, sr-mi 
jjtfmrr 1 


1 2 3 

1 {TjfRTT TTWe fTPT%P?T TOT TTf%T- 

<n^ (frfapr), wf^ 7 T 7 er fmri 73 ftq : 

%jt — I, merje- 1 

1 . me srfarret, fagfer 
I, mwjei 

2 . errmre erfwet, fmjfeT 
III, tfttt 1 

3 . srrwe erfamlt, fmtf- 
ttt IV, Tnr^e 1 

4 . srnrere 57 % wet, fmrf- 
737 VI, merje 1 

5 . ?rnTTe 57%w%t, fmrf- 
eT VII, TFrje 1 

6 . mwr srfsrTTet, fmrf- 
TT VIII, TBFje I 

7 . 5T1W7 q%W7t, faiTT- 

TT IX, TFTje 1] 

8. srrmre mfawet, %srf- 
737 XII, TFT^e 1 

9. wFTTe 57%wfr, fmr?- 
7*1 XIV, WWT I 

1 0. 57PTT7 57%wft, TJTfTT, 
TF7fe I 

**' 11 . eerTTe g-famet, 

Tneje 1 

12. ETTTTC mfawft, fait 
erf%T, TniTe 1 

2 TT^TTT 5773777 5T7JJ- fTRfePjT T7P737T 57%- 

3=r, (frfeTT), | wfeir srer fTTfe^ftT : 

%rll, mmje-i } i.’irrmre sifawet, fwjf- 

73 T II, BTT<je i 

2. 3773TT 57%T7%t, fagf- 

tw v, TTT’je i 


7. H7HT 5173377 Tlftrmft, 
iw Tlfer, TPTTe — 1 

4 

a foftr swTe srfgwTt 
4 cH erfro, h'hi ee i 

9 . mwe wfferrrfr 

imr eriw, ermr i 

Ml 

io. 57 PTfre 57 %TRt, T-mf, 
Wit I 

n. srrwe sefawet, ar-mi, 
mrf i 

12. mwe erffcrmet, mmi 

TTT I 

13 . 57 FWC 57 %TT%t, 
mrf I 

14 . ? 7 Pm WfERrrtt, T 7 RT- 
W I 

3. er^PTT wwme nt^t i, $113377 erfw+iO, 3 > mi, 
(ffrttsrJi), $n?m i 

errterr i 2. nwtc wfspmft, tjt mi, 

?TTt?n 1 

3. *nwe srfEmet, 77 ttt, 
Enitwi 1 

4. 7TFPR wftmtt, 7T mi 
574 %?rr 1 

5. NiqTe 57 %’tii'et, mi, 
eneermft 1 

6. iii<m eefEmet, ?jmi, 
^rrermfr 1 

7. mrre !i%T 7 %t, t mi, 
trmermft 1 

8. we 5 r%rret, w 3#, 
erTrermft 1 

9. serm-re e 7 %T 7 %t, 3 = mi, 
>mTermft 1 

10. 57 rqTe Tfurret, imT- 
3 % 1 



1 WftTFTtt, * sit, 

' wV.n r y R! I 

12. hi^tt trfsmfr, « nri, 
iflifinrc i 

13- flWTT trfwTft, «r ITT#, 
qHirrvre i 

1 4 . wiutfr irfswCt, v ^ri, 

xflOIMI! i 

15 . «rRT^r ^rfa^rtt, * «rrsr, 
vV.'if-aR i 


i 6 . wftj^rCV, .n ’rri, 

<■'■{!,' Rl’ril I 

1 7. tm^r wfomfr, u «rrt, 

»ti , ^a I 

i s. unm: ufEP'prfr, *t <rri, 

bt^it i 

1 9 . tor qftmrrft, i 

it? wfsr^rn' 1-6-1070 % nwl ?Bft 1 

[TTowro^ro 3/(«rnT <*)/7o] 


Nagpur, th« a 3rd Junt J97* 


8.0.3115. — In exercise of the powers conferred on him under sub-section 124 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of tqiSr) and ail other 
powers enabling him in this behalf and in supersession of all the previous orders o n the subject, the Commissioner of Incomctax, Vidarhha 
and Marathwada, Nagpur, direct that the Income-tax Officer shown in Col. 3 of the Schedule bolow shall exercise powers of an Income- 
tax Officer in respect of areas, persons or classes of persons, income or classes of incomes and/or cases or classes of cases falling within that 
jurisdiction shown against their names specifically transferred u/s 5(7A) of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1932 or 127 of the Income-tax Act, 
1961 to any othor income-tax officer: 

Sqhedulb 


SI. NameofCircle Designation of I-Tax Officer Jurisdiction 

No. 

12 3 4 


t. Aurangabad In«oma-tax Officer, A-Ward, I. ' All Limited Companies Co-operative Societies and Trusts in 

Aurangabad. Aurangabad and Bhir Districts. 

II. All Directors of the Limited Companies and Co-operative Societies 
referred to above and whose p.aeo of assessment is in Aurangabad 
and Bhir districts. 

III. All persons whose place of assessments In is A’bad Dlstt. and 
whose Income as per last completed asstt. or where no assessments 
have been completed the return income in any year exceeds 
Rs, 50,000/- as o n 1-5- 1970. 

IV. All partners of the firms assessed by the ITO, A-Wd. Aurangabad 
irrespective of the amount of total income of such person if they 
arc assessable in Aurangabad District, 

V. All now cases in the Distt. of A’bad out of survey operations’ °r 
otherwise where the income return exceeds Rs. JO,Ooo/- and no 
assetts. have been made. 

o. Aurangabad. . Income-tax Officer, B-Ward, I All pjrsons whose place of assessment in Bihar district and whose 
Aurangabad. income as por the last completed asstt. and where no assessment 

has been completed exceeds Rs. 50,000!- as o n 1-5-1970. 

II. All persons whose place of asstts. Is In A’bad Distt. and whoso 
income as per last completed asstt. and whore no asstt. has been 
completed the returned income exceeds Rs. 25,000/- but dose not 
exceed Rs. 50,000/- as on I-5-1970. 

III. All partners of the firm assossed by the ITO, B-Ward, A’bad 
irrespective of the total income of such persons, if they are assess- 
able In A’bad and Bh'r Distt. 

IV. AH new cases in Aurangabad and Bhir District out of survey 
operations or otherwise within the income limit specified above. 

". .Virimgitiad . Income-tax Officer, C-Ward, I. Allpersons whoso place of assessment Is in Bhir Distt. and whoso 

Aurangabad J income as pot the last completed assessment and whore no assess- 

ment has been conmleted the return income exceeds Rs. 15,000/- 
but ,10s not exceen Rs. 50,000'- as on 1-5-1970. 

II. All cases of A’bad District whose place of assessment Is in A’bad 
district and whose income as per the last completed asstt. and 
whore no assessment has been completed the returned income 
exceeds Rs. 15,00 V- but does not exceed Rs, 25,000 !- aso n 1-5-1070. 

III. All partners of tho firm assessed by the ITO. C- Ward, Aurangabad, 
Irrespective of the amount of total income of such persons if they 
are assessable in Aurangabad and Bhir Districts. 

IV. All now cases in A’ bid and Bhir Distt. arising out of survey 
operations or otherwise within the income limit specified above. 


t & e 



The order shall take effect from 1-7-1970. 

[ No. IT-9(NAG)/70] 

It ftro aft 'JTrrfr’T tmrTT trfafkrc-, 1922 5(5^) 

23 1970 wprtt wTuPm, 1961 <tfVsrrTr «nJto 

cm-o^fto 3215-wmn: srfafrqTT, 1961 ( 19 6i «ft MV sttwt srftnrr'V *fit fafw *<r ?Sr 
43 ) # am 124 ffm gft stst ttrMrt wk w faMr fcrr tt ff, ;frV ft <t£ % pmr 4 if, Mt % 

HTr«f ;rr*ft trtfV 3 pt wMrftftrsRtiT^jct^lk *mrr sftrer *rRmfkrT % '4Vm «n^ afalf, arMiff jit 
f^m tt % srtft 5# OTkff <£t srfEnfifa qmt 50;, *mr- srMff % ^rff, sirr jtt srprf 3 r stff, wk/trr tnwf m mmt 

5Tffcf. fknr sfk *r<TAi«i*T tpttt, kkr frr$ farft% % % gf* *f w ?rfffTTft tfV *rfora¥ tt, srak 

ft % ?ff«T 3 if wfVmft, ^ : 





i* Minis’ «rnr*R irftranft, v tt$, I. ^k i ^r ry tfk *fk fWr if frtft fwfk^ x qn^rPnrt, ^r d 

*)kdiun$ ffkTTfoft sfk 1 

II. S’mkrfff'e frrftrjs +*Mfa5t' ink ^rkt <iV n tr^t % 
m ftkrer sfk ftrarr Prat^r-wpr *flkrorc tfk «flr 
Mr if t 1 

III. M fatTkamR sftktNra Mr if $ nk 

f^FT^fV tfrfknr rr>jfkr ft«T<«n^K ht ar$t ^ 
frrsfk'T ^cr ^ MV tft ^ frmft % *rj*nr 
$tft Mnft fr «r? 1 - 5-1 970 ^t«ft, 50 , 0005 ° itwfiB' 

t 1 

IV. wwr-iira+id, it 5T i, sftkrrarc iro frtrffkr tprT % 
m ypfttnr , 5ft # ^rk^mK Mrr if fMriMfkr % f£t 
■trftFrf B?V *h°r vnq B?t T 5 TtT ^ft fV^TT if <nt{ fV’Tl I 

V. Mtt if n^Mr nMnff if ir itt vt-qwr 

Mt Tf ttM M ^5ifV % SPJtfK xm 50,000 !• 
% srf^tr $ sfk Ww Mr jnrr % 1 


4J44 


I'M* OA7irrC or INDIA: OCTOBB* 21, 1972/AS VINA 1M4 


[Fam: U— 


1 


3 


4 


2. vVrrk w sriwfT, qri, I. 99 sq-fftr fftTFr fftsrfajr-Firr 9 '<tT 7 fftrr ft | ftfa fftTift 

<crf^m- ftjfFT f-TvfW'frn: mz ?fte fttf fftsrtRT 
9ff t ^ f^nft f% 9? 1-5-1 970 fttftf, 50,000 5* 
ft $ i 1 " 1 ■ 

II. ?R Rfftl fft^lftlrfRr-FTOr ftVFTRTC f^HT ft | fttt 
*rfftpr ftjfiTr fftErfRFjrrn; smr ft*k ftTf 
fftvfRT ^rr i^tt ^ fsRRrt % smr fftaftt 

fft 9? 1-5-1970 ftf ft) - , 25,000 5o ft *rf«97 f TF=3 
5 0, 0005 o ft 9jff I 1 

III. ittwt: srfsmfr, *ir 9rft, ftftpTRrc aro fftsrtfwr 95 ft ft 
m wnfr^K, 9fft ft ftYwrar? m\< ftk fftft ft fftftrTifftT 
ftft ®rfetftf ftr situ ftt fft^rR ft wtr fftrr i 

IV. wPT-fttoT ft ftftn; gftwiT ftfftoiftt ft ft 

itt *F9«rr sfrnrrcrc ftk ftfr fftft ft srftt 9q; 
*rm% i 

3 . tfltirrerc mw fWmtr, 9 9rr, I. tr Rfftr fft?m ffttj?F9-F9T9 ftfa fftTr ft $ vfk fftaftt 

tftoTRK srfftnr ftgiftfT fftqtm?[HK *rm ftk ^Tfr ftrf fftgf'Rr 

cjtt ?rff fqT ^ 9 t?t fftarftt ft sr?jrn; srrft ffttiftf fft 95 
1-5-1970 ftf *ft, 15,000 5o ^^ 19-773 50,000 
5° ft 5rptf9? 9$f I I 

II. f^mT ftr ^rnr^r ffti^RT ?«rrT 

fft^r ft $ fttr: frnTftt srfftw ft^fcr PnatwrjTrn: vm 
ftk fttf fftHkrr 9^f t fft^Rft ft 
5 T 5 JTTR ?mr fftnftt fft 9 ? l- 5 - 1970 ftt*fT, 15,000 5 * 
ft 25,000 5 ° ft ?TfftTT 9 ff $| 

III. HW+'T ^rfftwd, >1 Tlf, ftt^'TRK SRT fftSTffcr 9ift 
ft m ^riftkir irift ft qftoTRR sfK ftk fft% ft (ftyfauffir 
f.^ftaqfftrftfftt^srnTfttT^fttfft^ftsrrtrfw i 

IV. ^rr. fftfftfft'S STR-ftftTT ft fttcTT ftfwftt ft ITT 
wvm ^frOTMT'T ftk ftft fftft ft 7T<fT "TCr 9T9ft I 

4 . VTiftmif wr srftpmrfr, <r «rri, I wt ^=r fsr^Tn fftsrkir f-tt-t ^ft^iwnr ft\r f^tft ft % 

vV^NK Sfk fftFftt ftfftq- pTErk'Tr-JHK STPT 9T ftt^ 

fft^trq- grr^g^rrl^ ft *f%%K ?mr fftsftt 
fft ^ 1-5-1970 ftt «fT, 10,000/- 5o ft ?rfft9T |, 
9773 1 5 , 000/- 50 ft srfftr | I 

II. ttiwt: ^rfftfrrft, «r 9T#, ft’lw^rr am fftnffftr 'sft ft 

TW NFfRK qfft if ftftftlKra sftF ftH fftft ft fftldft>fftr 

$■ f, ftft sqfftrftf ftT W *TDT ftt TOT ftt fftlK ft 5^1'^ | 

III. mF-ftftrr ft ftftn: Tiftsfr ftfwftf ft 9T 
jfrftTRTC srk fttr fftft ft Trftt ?rcc imTft i 

IV. ftf ft iM TK ifrr ftK fftft ft tr ®rfw, ^T 999 t 

5fr< ft ®rfftr fftqftt vw ftftf wnr ft fftrr tt: %99 

#9 9R 9RT ^TRTT | HT IlTflTftf ft 9T ftTff ST 5 ^ fftft* ft 
fft5Ph< 99t | I 



Sec. 3(ii;j 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1£94 


45 45 


1 2 


3 


4 


5 . srRwrc 


iiRt < irfirnTt, f I* m *yf4d f^Fwr f^rtiT^ ij i pm ^rVormT irR hr fv% 

sri, stRttrit *r | hR fvmfr ^ Rafter frafwr^R Tnrirr^f 

vR fratpr ^ v^t fwpft % stjh'k im 

fwft % 1-5-70 Vt *rt, 10,000 it wfsrv 

^ | i 

II. ^nmR irfavR) 1 , * wrf, tftfnrm ski fRfffRr *m 

$ % m HFfRn: ^ # *tRtfttt srR 4k f^r Jr PwRhR 

<?§■ sqftrRilf f?rjp vt tw: 4 vTq ftrrr i 

' i 

III. hvt ftRrfRs 4r vftcR flrwoi tffwrcfr 4 4 

JIT 1 tFT«rr H^JcT jftRTM K sfR hR t Tnft rth?i I 


*n^9T 1 - 7-1970 % snrpft gErr i 


fouro Vo 9 (HE I°)/70 


Nagpur, the SOt/i June 1970 

S.O. 3210. — The Commissioner of Income-tax, Vidar- 
bha and Marathwada, Nagpur, hereby creates the fol- 
lowing new Charge of Income-tax Office in the Office of 
the Additional Commissioner of Income-tax, Vidarbha 
and Marathwada, Nagpur, with effect from 1st July, 
1970 F.N. : — 


S. 

No. Designation Headquarters. 

a) - (aj co~ 


x. Additional [ncome-tax Officer NAGPUR. 

CHeadquarrers). 


[No. 10-IT (NAG) /70.’’ 
<TFTT r , 30 TjV) 19 70 

q^o wt<>32i6 . — 3rmR hr^et, Rpr4 hR 
TRrsrrfT, ffwjT, wRrtRKT wr street, fRn hR 
RTTsrnrr % vetRet 4 tnwr ?rfyvr<t qu 

R tfFarrrFRiT, 1 vvR, 1970 4 mrer 

$1 


IT o TTlfHim XTWMH 


1 


2 


3 


1 . wfaPwtf hrhv iriwrfr tto 4 ) < 
(rwtht) 1 


ffTT'JT 22 sJRR 1970 

iRTo *ffo 3217 . — WH WPfKT, fR4 HR 
RTRPtTST, dWJTi, tmVT fffiOT HR HTT^Tfr % 

VRtRbT 4 WRNFR JTfijffiRt (^ITm) (qHo ITTfo 4R 
«fR <fto «ro) BfR ^mrrfRrr, arRRi 24 - 7-70 4, 
^IKT BOTlRcI WHT I I 

[4° ii-stptvt (tit o ) j 70 ] 

Nagpur, the 2 9th July 1970 

S.O. 3218.— In exercise of the powers conferred on 
him under sub-section (2) of section 124 of the Income- 
tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Comissioner of Income- 
tax, Vidarbha and Marathwada, Nagpur hereby further 
modifies the Schedule to the notification No. 34-IT- 
(MP)/168 dated 20th August, 1968 read with notifica- 
tion No. II-IT(MP)/67 dated 17th August, 1967 as 
•nder: — 

(A) Against serial No. 11 viz. Income-tax Officer 
Assessment- VIII, Nagpur in column No. 3 for 
the words and figures “Ward Nbs. 18 to 20 and 
Ward No. 21 (southern side of Bhandara Road) 
of Nagpur City”, substitute the following; — 
“Ward Nos, 18 to 20”. 

(B) Against serial No. 4 vizi Income-tax Officer, 
Assessment-IV, Nagpur in column 4 for the 
words and figures "Ward Nos. 22 to 24 of 
Nagpur City, substitute the following; — 

“Ward No. 21 (Southern side of Bhandara 
Road), Ward Nos. 22 to 24.” 

This notification shall take effect from 1st August. 
1970. 


[4° 10!IT»TT» (TFT°)/70] 

Nagpur, the 22nd July 1970 

S.O. 3217. — The Commissioner of Income-tax, Vidar- 
bha and Marathwada, Nagpur hereby abolishes the 
Charge of I.T.O. (HQ) (S.LB. & P.R.) in the Office 
of the Commissioner of Income-tax, Vidarbha and 
Marathwada with effect from 24th July, 1970. 

[No. 1 1-IT (NAG ) /70, ] 


[No. 12-IT(NAG) 70.] 
TTVJT, 29 1970 

VT o ITT o 321 8. — ?TI TO 1961 ( 1961 VT 

43) VTUKT 124TV 3WP (2) * mfR Rr SRff SrfVHTf 

vt stfpr vRf jq, imvi utjjw itR *nci6«ir?r, 

ll-WTo Vo (TToJTo)/67ffitfW 17-8-67 



454<S 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II— 


% Em wfsngw 34-511 o^o( Ro)/e 8 
trrftor 20-8-68 *F 7 ^ fit fdRf%f%R *q % 5 ?V? 

WF) tpppKI ^TRrfr?! HTdT I :— 

(h) w bwt i i % btb% 5 r%t, 5 trt 7 srftrorft, 
fqsrfor- VIII, "rrst: her %o 3 %, 
ju^c % mi Bo is % 20 dH 5 th 

%WT 21 (WH %¥ HT itfiflfuft Rfi)” 
ir»Tr *fht 5F% % (dHPrifcM^sfa- 

wrlqfl fen srm*TT : 

"niifo 18% 20 im ” 1 
(«) Tff 7FRT 4 % BR% , 51%^, STRUT 5rfsRT%, 

fTtrfRT- IV, RTR^T, TtFR 4^%, "TFRT 

H$T % mi %0 22 % 24 ?TH” 7R% 5ftT 

«f^r % b?r tt faRfafsar srfifFqrfcr 

fam snqri : 

"mi %o 21 ( wra hi sftmfir *tr) 
mi %o 22 % 24 cFF" • 

* c % frfag/mrr 1-8-1970 % srt% 1 

[%o 12-5170 h (<tr°)/ 7 o] 

Nagpur, the 17th September 1970 

8.0. 3219. — In pursuance of Board’s notification 
No. 3(F. No. 55/165/68-lT(IT(AI)dt. 24th April, 1970, 
the Commissioner of Income-tax, Vldarbha and Mara- 
thwada, Nagpur, in exercise of the powers conferred 
on him u/s 124(1) of the I. T. Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) 
and all other powers enabling him in this behalf and 
in partial modification of the notification No. 6-IT 
(NAG)/70 dated the 8th May 1970, hereby directs 
that the Income-tax Officers shown in column 3 of the 
schedule below shall exercise powers of an Income- 
tax Officer in respect of the persons shown against 
their names in column 4 of the schedule below in 
addition to the various categories of persons shown 
in column 4 of notification No. 6-IT(NAG)/70 dated 
the 8th May 1970. 


Schedule 

S. Name of 

No, circle. 

Designation of 
Income tax 
Officer. 

Jurisdiction 


1 2 

3 

4 



I. Salary Circle, ist Incornetax All gazetted and non" 
Nagpur. Officer, S alary gazetted employees 

Circle, Nagpur. (Other than Class I 
Officers) serving in the 
Office of the Senior 
Deputy Accountant 
General, Maharashtra 
Nagpur. 

2# Do, znd Incornetax All gazetted and non- 

Officer, Salary gazetted employees 

Circle, Nagpur. ( Other than Class -I 

Officers) serving in the 
office of the Director 
of Audit and Accounts, 
Post and Telegraphs, 
Nagpur. 

This notification shall effect take from 1-10-1970. 

[No. 14-IT (NAG) .] 


HRfT, 17 f %RRT, 1970 

RT o fit o 3219- — att sf?T ’df'RJRTT % o 
('FT 0 B 0 55/165/68-511 o H o (O'. 5nt), RTfar 

24-4-7 0 % 5FJR7R %, 5TTWT 5tf?jfRR, 1961 ( 1 -) 6 1 
hi 43 ) %r (jttt i24( 1 ) % s-erfi arfaoRf wfa 

S7T faffin 7R^ 3RT% 5RT ?if%Rf qq spfFl 

gd 5[h 5ffa^RT 6-51TO Ho (TRo)/70, 

ffrffa 8-5-70 %5Tff%H RTRTTW %, 5TRHT 5R[Hr, 
5th rtiarit, refit;, *rt £ f% Rt% 

5FJ$%t % 7RR % aftltl 5TIWT 5tfERq%, 5rfHT|RqT 
% O 6— 5fT oH o(qR o)/70, RT%Tsr 8-5-70% TTR 4 if 
wiRdhf % fafow BT'if % 5rfdfrtpr, ft qf 
5FJ4j%t % RD* 4 %, 1371% RR % RR% RfifiR Rf%Rf % 
art % 5TRH7 wfETHrft TlftcRf HT 5R>T 1 




v 0 bThh 

5TRH<5lfir- 

trfwrfRi 

HI 7R 

Hlft HT 



'FdftRR 


1 2 

3 

4 

1 7RT 

BURWRHT 

(hr 1 % JifHHTfiRl: % f»pa 


5lfaHr%, 

5%S5 t3RT|r rTOTTrT, B^T- 

1TRJ7 

dffiT 

TP^, 'TR^7, % HRfBR 


7R57 

% tT4T H7% 71% 


TDT- HHRTTt I 

2 $RR fefFl5IRH7 ('78 1 %5TfydlR9f % f-TR 
BlW ilfSHKl T-'R ffi%3IH, %faT 

HHI4 ) < fifHT fiPlJ< ^THdT7 % HRRIT % 

%7T HT'T 7T% Bift 7T5T- 
5il7 5MmfM 
HifTTfl I 

ii| 5ifij^7fiT 1-10-1970 % i 

[%0^14-srro Ho(dRo):] 

Nagpur, the 15 th October 1970 

S.O. 3220. — The Commissioner of Income-tax Vidar- 
bha and Marathwada, Nagpur hereby abolishes the 
charges of the Income-tax Officers, C &-Wards, War- 
dha with effect from 15th October. 1970. 

[No. 18 (IT) Wardha/70.] 
fiR^T, 15 5RET7, 1970 

sTto 3220 . 5 TR-H 7 ; 5 TRW f 7 T% flk 

■T7IS7RI 7RTTT 5TR-HT 5lftlHi|0 7 W, 7lt, mrf 
5rfHHlf7tTT5fi %V fTTfttSf 15-10-1970 % crqTTJTI 
H7dT 1 


[%t> 18(5H 0H0) 7^/7 0] 


>EC. 3(iit] 


4547 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


S.O. 3221. — In exercise of the powers conferred on 
him under Sub-section (1) of Section 124 of the 
Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 19G1) and all other powers 
enabling him in this behalf, the Commissioner of 
Income-tax, Vidarbha and Marathwada, Nagpur, here- 
by creates new charges of Income-tax Officers at 
Chandrapur as under; — 


Designation 


Headquarters 


1. Income-tax Officer, A-Ward. Chandrapur 

Chandrapur 

2. Income-tax Officer. B-Ward, Chandrapur 

Chandrapur 


This notification shall take effect from 15th October, 

1970. 

[No. 19(IT)CH/70.] 

sffo 3221.. WFT-TT srfolwr, 1961 
( I96i rtt 43 ) Rft arcr 124 Rpf ttort ( 1 ) % mftff 
3% SETH Ulfepff sffr fR fdfppT Tff RffR RRIA Tift 
f Rfft mff Rrfffcrqf Rff mftff RTff gR, mff-RT 3TEJW, fffTff 
*fK JKI44I«!, TETTT, mff-RT srfsWlfoi'l Ad fff ’Tfu- 
TTfcl Pi if fffRfvlfNrr *tR if ^ETT | : — 


'tfwAlfl.Cll 

1JWW 

1. mR-RT qftiRffff, rt-rr, msji 


2. mr-RT siftiRirtf 


R^«rf^mrTcrRf^ 15-10-70 ir TREft^fot 1 

[IT 19(moRio)lft 

iTR/7 0] 


S.O. 3222.— In p-ursuance of sub-section (1) of sec- 
ion 124 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) and 
n supersession all previous orders on this subject, the 
Commissioner of Income-tax, Vidarbha & Marathwada, 
fagpur hereby directs that the Income-tax Officers, 
pecifled in column (2) of the schedule appended to 
his order shall perform all the functions of the Income- 
ax Officers, in respect of the areas, persons, classes of 
>ersons, incomes, classes of incomes, cases or classes 
>f cases mentioned in column (4) thereof: — 

Schedule 


2 3 


4 


111. All Directors of « 
Limited Companies and 
Cooperative Societies 
referred to Bbove and 
whose place of assess- 
ment is in Wardha 
District. 

Wardha Incometax Wardha I. All persons ( other 
Officer, than those whose case 

B-Ward, have been or may here 

Wardha. after be assigned to the 

Incometax Officer . A 
Ward, Wardha and 
limited companies 
cooperative Societies , 
thejr Directors) who 
are assessable in Warda 
District, 


This notifjcai ion shall take effect from 15 - 10 - 70 , 

[No. 20 (IT) Wardha/70.] 

TRo ifto 3222 mff-RT Wftrfffffff, 1961 ( 1 9 6 1 

RR 43) R?f tTFT 124 R?f RRETTO (l) %■ srtjffrq- if 
sftr sir faro it % Tffl gmicff wr^fr r?t RfEraRf rpeJ 
fif, mff-ffT mffRff, fffRR 1 ifir BTT5ffT5T, RTART, rr?TR- 
skt ffn | fr fff snffTr if mrm % rhr 
( 2 ) Jr fsrfdfoe mr-TT Rfimfr, Echm ( 4 ) if 
eforf, sirffeiTr, sirfvTfff % fffft, mrf, miff % 
mff, rnmff, mmfr % mff % m3; if vr-vt qfimfmf 

%■ fffff fRI VT REffff Rit'i : — 

5EJ^t 


fffRT RT mff-RT RWERR ffftJRiTfTm 

TRTfffffET 


(1) (2) (3) (4) 


)istrict 

or 

Designation 
of the 

Head 

Jurisdiction 

wferff, 

ircle 

Income tax 
Officer 

quarters 


^rf 


2 

3 

4 


Zardha Incometax Wartha 
Officer, 

A-Ward, 

Wardha 


I. All cases as have been 
or may hereafter be 

assigned specially 
u/s 127 of the Income- 
tax Act, 1961. 

II. All companies and 
cooperative Societies 
Located in Wardha, 

Dist. 


i- T'fff ffTffvT, 13ft 
mv-TT vfvfffTtT, 

1961 <fff RKI 
127 % mffff 
ffffmT RR 
RVRTe£ ffir^f 
m iffa wraf 1 

ii- Raf Pa if if mr- 
fFRff T4T RT*R- 
fiRf sftr r|- 
RTft ffHflEfari | 



4548 


THE OAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1 59-1 


[Part II- 


1 2 

3 4 


iii- 37i < Piiks fk- 
ftkR THRfRRf 

Rk R^Rkf Rt- 
RT^fOTt % Rkt 
fr|kl+ Rk fTTTlI 
fffakRVRTR RRT 
fikr R £ 1 

Rat RTR-TV 

Rat 1. RR Jfffrff (ffffk 

RfHTRVt, 

fffR fkff% RTRk 

TT— RTst, 

rir-tv Rfarkt, 

Rat 1 

TT-RTt, RRt apt 

*R% TffffB[ ak 
ffk RT Rk Rlk 

Rk fkfkr trr- 

fffRT, RfTffft RT- 
RT?feff Rk Rff% 
kkiTi ) Rt Rat 
t fRatnftR | 1 

R$ RftrgRRT 15- 

-10-1970 TTT RRTRt ?tRt 1 


[Ro 20 (RTo R°) R«t/ 7 o] 


Nagpur, the 26th December 1970 

S.O. 3223. — In exercise of the powers conferred on 
him under sub-section (2) of Section 124 of the I.T. 
Act 1961 (43 of 1961; the C.I.T., Vidarbha and Mara- 
thwada, Nagpur hereby further modifies the schedule 
to the notification No. 23 -IT (MP)/69 dated 4th Octo- 
ber, 1969 as amended by Notification No, 23-IT(MP)/ 
69 dated 29th November. 1969 of C.I.T., M.P., Nag- 
pur and Bhandara, Nagpur and No. 13-IT(NAG)/70 
dated 29th July. 1970 of C.I.T., Vidarbha and Mara- 
thwada Nagpur as under: — 

b(A) Against S. Nos. 8 and 9 of the schedule read as 
follows: 

(.8) Income-tax Officer Administration, Nagpur.^- 
Functions under sections 140-A 141 and 141-A 
of the I.T. Act, 1961 in respect of those asses- 
sees assessable by the I.T. Os. Asstt, I, III, IV, 

VI, VII, VIII, IX, XII, and XIV Nagpur. 

19) Income-tax Officer Collection, Nagpur. — Func- 
tions of collection & Recovery of tax as detail- 
ed in Chapter XVII of the I.T, Act, 1961 except 
sections 214 to 217 in respect of those assessees 
assessable by the I.T.O 's Asstt. I, III, IV, VI, 

VII, VIII, IX, XII, and XIV, Nagpur. 

(B) Para (b) of the order dated 4th October, 1969 
i s deleted. 

This notification shall take effect from 1st January, 
1971. 

[No. 26 (IT-NAG) /70.] 


RTRRT 26 fRRTRT, 1970 

trfTo Rio 3223. — RTRTV RfafkRR, 1961 ( 1 96 1 
RT 43) RTTT 124T?t TTSTHT (2) % Rttff Rk 

svtT rrfrdtff tt rr'tr Tvk fk, rtr tv rtrtr, fork 

RTTSTTST, 'TIT TV RTRTR, ROT RTRTR: TCftV 

kRVT, RTR^T, Tk RfRTJRRTRo 37-RTo Rio (R 0 R 0 )/ 

69, ffkpR, 29-11-1969 Rk RTRTV RTRTR, Ftr 4 
RR3RT3T, fiTRJT, Til RfagRRT Ro 13-RTo T.T o (hTRo J 

70, ffkkf 29-7-70 RVT RRf kRtfaff Rfa^RRT Ro 


23-RTo TRo (ro Ro )/6 
RRR/RT R RRT fRTRfvfiRT 
TT7RT | : — 

(Ti) Tit RTR« 

fRfklR TV R TST RTRRT 

8. rtrrv Rfarnvt R“H- 

RR, uHI4,< 


9. RTRRV rTmT'I F l, 
RTR^V RtRPR 


9, RTFFR 4 RTfJRT, 1 969 Rk 
Rk RTR RTIRTPR T'RR£VT 

Ro 8 Rk 9 % RTRk fffOT- 

RRRV RfRTTTfvfr, fkRtVR, 

I, III, IV, VI, VII, VIII, 
IX, XIlR'kXIVffk^, 

RTRTR, 5TTTT fRR'kktR 3R 
fRatkfffRT 4\ RTRR RTR- 
TV RfafffRR, 1961 Tit 
R1TT 1 4 0— TP, 141 Rk 
1 4 1-RT ^ Ratff £OT I 

RTRTV RfRTRfvfr, fRRk’R, 

I, III, IV, VI, VIII, 
IX, XII, XIV 
RTffy: tvt fdRrvjfrR rr 
fRaifkiffl rFF rtrr RTR- 
RV RfafffRR, 1961 % 
ROTTR 17 if ETPJ 214 
k 217 RT kt? TV, ®ffk- 
RTT fffk Rif TV RR^R Rk 
R^Joft Ti fTR I 


(iff) ffktlff 4—10—1969 % RT^TT Rff kTT (iff) Tff£ 
fkffT RRT | I 

Rf RfR^RRT 1 Rffffft, 1971?! RRTfft §tfft I 

[Ro 25-(RToTio RTR 0 ) / 7 0] 


Nagpur, the 6th April 1971 

S.O. 3224, — The Commissioner of Income-tax, Vidar- 
bha and Marathwada, Nagpur, hereby abolishes the 
Charges of the Income-tax Officers D & E Wards, 
Aurangabad, with effect from 1st May, 1971. 

[No. 27 (IT) Jalna/71.] 



Sec. 3 ( 11 )] 


4549 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1R94 


JTFFR 6 1971 

tt^To sffo 3 224: — TTtFFT TTWT, f^'4 sfrf 
TFHTTTr, thpjt, ntwt T uir t Tri sfrcfiT- 

5TT Sift ?Tf«mf73T4 Tlfte 1 1971 it 

TeTlf^T 'FTcTT | I 

[*i° 27 (^rr° Tfo) ^srrT'TT/ 7 i] 


S.O. 3225. — In exercise of the powers conferred on 
him under sub-section (1) of Section 124 of the 
Income-tax Act. 1961 (43 of 1961) and all other powers 
enabling him in this behalf, the Commissioner of 
Income-tax, Vidarbha & Marathwada, Nagpur, hereby 
creates new Charges of Income-tax Officers at Jalna, 
as under: — 


Designation 


Headquarters 


1 . Tncome-tax Officer, A-Ward, Jalna 
Jalna 

2. Tnrnme-tax Officer, B-Ward Jalna. 

Jalna 


This notification shall take effect from 1st May, 1971, 

[No. 28 (IT) Jal./71.] 

qrlTe wto 3223: — wmT vfaPETH, 1981 
( 1 96 1 NTT 43) 9TTT 124 7ft TTOTTT ( l) % *Cr^Y?T 
stitt PTfSmf tfrr tt faftm tbn arrri) 7i?ft 
mft SRT TIT srcftT nmTT T 1 WT ftnf 

Sftr e « i dq i s i , TTtpjT, NT^RT % NT 1 ! T 7 " TrfsmfttiT Tit 
fi-f TlRmfrU^ ffiTTftTftJT «T it ^T-TITO spTTTT | : — 

’T^riWFT R«MrN4 

-o 


1. sriTTTT Nfwrfl, 7r-Tri 

TTTTT TfiHdT 

2. 'y [9't'T TrftJIT^t, TT— d(i, 

^Mdl ^TTTTTT 


it? srftiTW di^tsr i irf, 1 97 1 % snn^t ?>ft i 


[To 28 (TTo Tio) /TTTo/71] 

S.O. 3226. — In exercise of the powers conferred on 
him under sub-seclion (1) of section 124 of the Income- 
tax, 1961 (43 of 1961) and all other powers enabling 
him in this behalf and in supersession of all the pre- 
vious orders on the subject, the Commissioner of 
Income-tax, Vidarmha and Marathwada, Nagpur, 
directs that the Income-tax Officers shown in Col. 3 
of the Schedule below shall exercise powers of an 
Income-tax Officer in respect of persons or classes of 
persons, incomes or classes of Incomes and/or cases or 
classes of cases falling within the jurisdiction shown 
against their names in col. 4 of the Schedule below 
other than those whose cases have been' specifically 
transferred q/s 9 (7A) of the Indian Iqcojne-tax Act, 


1922 or 127 of the Income-tax Act 1961 to any other 
Income-tax Officer; — 


Schedule 


District Designation H.Q, Jurisdiction, 

or of the 

Circle I. T.O. 


Auranga- Income-tax 
bad Officer, 
A-Ward 
Aurangabad 


( 2 ) AllDirectors of limi- 

ted companies and co- 
operative societies 

referred to above and 
whose place of assess- 
ment is in Aurarfjabad. 
and Bihar Districts ex- 
cluding Talukas men- 
tioned in item No. 1 , 

(3) All persons whose the 
Place of assessment Is 
In Aurangabad Taluk# 
of Aurangabad District, 

(4) All partners of the 
flrmB assessed by the 
I. T.O. A-Ward, Auran- 
gabad. 

( 5 ) All new case* arlaing 
out of survey opera- 
tions or otherwise in 
A’ bad taluka 

(6) All trusts falling with- 
in jurisdiction of all 
It OsT. of Nanded 
Latur and A’ bad. 


Aurangabad ( 1 ) All limited. Com- 
panies, Co-operative 
societies in Aurangabad 
and Bhir Districts ex- 
cluding the following 
Talukas viz. Jalna. soya- 
gaon Bho kardan, Am- 
bad and Jafrabad. 


Auranga- Income-tax Auranga 
bad, tax. Officer, bad 
B-Ward 
Auranga- 
bad. 


( 1 ) All persons whose 
place of assessment i s 
in Bihar and A’ bad 
Districts excluding 
Aurangabad, Jalna, 
S oyngaon, Bhokardan. 
Ambad n nd Jafrabad 
Talukas. 

( 2 ) All partners of the 
firms assessed by the 
ITO, B-Ward, Auranga- 
bad. 

( 3 ) All new cases arising 
out of survev Operat- 
ions or otherwise in 
Bihar and Aurangabad 
Districts excluding 
Aurangabad, Jalna, 
Soyagaon. Bhokardan. 
Ambad and Jafarabad 
Talukas 


Auranga- fneometax Auranga- 
bad Officer, bad 

C-Ward, 

Auranga- 

gabad 


( 1 ) All Persons of Auran~ 
gabad r a nd Bhi r 
Districts who arc salary 
earners and person 8 
whose total income i s 
made up of income 
only from tax-deducted 
at source or dividend 
or both. 



4550 


THE 

GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 

1894 

[Part II— 

District 

or 

Circle 

Designation 
of the 
I.T.O. 

H.Q. 

Jurisdiction. 

District 

or 

Circle 

Designation 
of the 

I TO. 

H. Q. 

Jurisdiction 









Jalna 

Circle, 

D'St. 

Aurang- 

abad, 

Incometax 

Officer, 

A-Ward, 

Jalna. 

Jalna. 

(1) AH cases as have been 
or may hereafter be 
assigned specifica'lv 

under section t27 of 
the Incometax Act, 1961 

Jalna 

Incometax 

Officer, 

B-Ward, 

Jalna. 

Jalna 

fll All persons (other 
than those whose cases 
have or may hereafter 
be assi gn ed to the Income- 


( 2 ) All companies and co- 
operative societies 

in the following Talu- 
kas : Jalna. Soyegaon. 
Bhokardan, Ambad 

and Jafrubad. 

(3) All 'Directors of a 
limited companies and 
cooperative societies 
referred to above and 
whose place of assess- 
ment j s in Talukas men- 
tioned ab°ve. 


tax Officer, A- ward, 
Jalna and limited com- 
panies, co-operative 
societies, their Dire- 
ctors, Directors and all 
Trusts) who are assess- 
able in the following 
Talukas Talna, S°ye- 
Baon, : Bhokardan and 
Ambad of Aurangabad 
District. 


This Notification shall take effect from 1-5-1971. 


— [No. 29 (IT) Jal/ 71 ] 

Sffo 3236. — SffffTT yfyfddB, 1961 ( 1 96 1 ®FT 43) dft STITT 124 %T 3*raTTI (l) % ERT 

STSW vri WffT ?flT w PrPTtT 13 % ffff*f *TdffT TTvfT TTfft WpRTfff ! PT STfflff TT k fffft 

SrfajpRT "TTWl WPTTT, fffr RTT^fffT, dTTJT ft&BT %TT £ f% ffT% ct fff tTT/Jfff %■ ddT»r 3 pf 

ffirrff WPfffiT TT ffTffTT ff fffff, ffrTifrff ffTWT ffffffjTRr, 1922 %T UTO .5 ( 7J7) % STefT-T ffT Iffim 

<rftrpBDT, 19 61 UITT 127% Wtd fafft tffT 'CfRTdTT fffffTrfT Tl fdfw WT JJ TfftrfTff TT faff ifa %Vff ffl fff 
<T^f[ % KW 4 if dd% ffTtff % ffTffff fffalcr fffffffTfVcrT % ffldT Sff% TT% sTffT, sfffaffffl fffa afffafffff % fffff q"|T *nfff 

% fffff sik/ffT ffTffdff iff ffTffvff % fffff # HIW dft Brfadfft dff fffftff d%rf : — 


ftTTT ffT 


ffdTTTT 

VD 

ffRmfrtff 

m 1 d r +‘ y ffTSTTKi dff 
; f TffffrffFr] 

1 

2 

, j 

3 

4 


ff’tTffrffr? nrw fffffTrfr, t-tt! , ^ffUdKiff (1) fffffffarfafcr dTTfff, fffffj ffTffdT,ffrffrffiff, 

ffTOTHJff fftdTTffrd’, ffTff? ?ftT ffT'ffTTffTff 

fffaffDTTff ffk fffa falff R ffffl farffftff w- 
fdfff, fffffffr Tfrwrfffcff 1 
(2) ^TTffffwfffrffTJTPTMT fffa fffdffff 
THnrfaffr % ff*fr fVtBTh farm fffyf- 

Tff-TffTd ffff ffo 1 ff fffarff dT^fff %T EfTT-fT 
ffttffTffTff fftT fftT fffff if $ I 
( 3) “fffffff faldt'l ffffffrff fffTd - fffaffrfflff 
f%ffr % 5ftorRrc Jr £ 1 

(4) ffiffdT fffffTTfr, %' fffa , sffc ffNifflffH 
3TO faffTfaff tfitff % fftfV vrrrfYTTT I 

(5) fftwffr? ffrddi Jr fff%fffff Jr 

Iff ffiffffT fffft ff<r tfrq% 1 

(6) dT^, vff^ fftr % ff»ft 

ffTffdn: fffiTTrfrfff d?r fffffTrfVffT % ffTtR 
ffT^r dTdt ff'fft t'TTff | 



Sec. 3(H)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4551 


1 


2 


3 


4 


THEFT ^fsTGfr, ’T— Tff, 
’tffKHTSTPT 


i ft thlfllff SITffTT ^rftrTT^, ff-fflf , STtTffTffTT 

’tU’trtk 


snvnn n(%T, srpFTT ffffffrcr, *f-ti i, 

’Cft'GTHrK P»(W 'ffTHffl 


Tfx r -i r vpttv vf u i O', tt?,] 'jfTffff 

'jfrTTT 


(1) TFT Zfffaff 3FFFT f^rfTW-WR sflrffrJTTT, 
•THTTr, TtTT BTF, 'fftTTSTff, 5TTTT tftr 

TTTFi ^'t IjtT^ vftr sft^rrr- 
?nr fV^ *f | i 

( 2 ) nftrrrfi, , sflrffrarra 

£ITf ffftlffVff ffifff % fftft ' 4 TT 1 T 4 TT I 

( 3 ) ft'rxmxrx, TrT'Tf, ftfxnrfx, 

tm? ?ftr Trir r r 4 TT TFr-irf qrr ^ 

5rfr sftTHTTrT fffT ff ffifST>JT lifTTHTt ^ 
Tr rpift TT BTCTT I 

( 1 ) srtr vfK fftft % ^ stArt, 
5fr ffffff 5F3TT ^ sflT % Sfffqff fV'I'h) 

wi, rrm mx ft fm tx irx far=r fttx tx 
"FT 317TT I TT Hf'fftm ft ITT fTffi ft, Pf? 4IT 
anfl $ 1 

(2) ht) BTT^r, qft trftrfETiT, 1901 

qfr trrcr 127 % %tft\x fsrftrc wr 3r iftr 
fVff Tff TT * 0 % TW]; ifft ' 3 TT? I 
ftpifafaff arfirf : ^nw, ' efaFrtr, 
'tfrcrEITff, WtH! rffT smRTHTFT, *f F*fY 
TFlf-TOT ft\X fftfffffrfff I 

(3) SIT fffftcT TPlfffiH *flT fTRTTft 
mTI^f>TT T FTvft fff^TTF tftx frrffiTT 
fWRN-PTPT Tqr-fffriff mwfti ft | I 

(l) TffaqffT ( T-TT fTT, f ffi# VFT% SEWT 
?rfsr^Kt, qr-Tr#, sheet eIn FpI ff^r 
if m vxwr^ ftfft mft ftfx fftfftir 
^f-lfftm, C'lm HlTT£f>Ht, TE% fTffTFF 
E^ffvft t’rrft) jfr mciT-ir? fV^rr % farff- 
FTfatfJffpm, srrTir, ulTiTtT, «rt^ 
HR HTTT ft fftzfraftq I I 


irfH’JffffT 1-5-1971 IT TflTfT tjfTV I 

— [tfo 29 (Tffo qro) 3TTTO/71] 


Wealtii-tax 

Nagpur, the 3rd March 1971 

S.O. 3227. — In exercise of the powers conferred on 
him under section 8 of the Wealth-tax, Act, 1957 and 
all other powers enabling him in this behalf, the Com- 
missioner of Wealth-tax, Vidarbha and Marathwada, 
Nagpur hereby modifies the Notification No. WT-7/08- 
89 dated 4th September 1988, as amended from time to 
time as under: — 

For paras (b) and (c), substitute the following: — 

(b) The Wealth-tax Officer (Administration) shall 
perform the functions under Section 15-B and 


15-C of the Wealth-tax Act, 1957 in respect of 
all persons assessable by the Wealth-tax Offi- 
cers, Assessmcnt-I, III, IV, VI, VII, VIII, IX, 
XII and XIV. 

(c) The Wealth-tax Officer (Collection) shall per- 
form the functions of Collection and recovery 
of tax in respect of all persons assessable by 
the Wealth -tax Officers, Assessment-I, III, IV, 
VI, VII, VIII, IX, XII and XIV. 

This notification shall take effect from 15th March, 
1971. 

[N<?, 26.J 



4552 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 1972/ASVINA 29, iE"4 


[Paht II— 


(STT-TT) 

TWIT, 3 TWl, 1971 

TTtfo ifto 322 7 . — TTF 7 tFtFtWT, 19 57 TF 
TFT 8 % 'fT'fFT 3% TTrT TfTTW TT 7T FTfffT ?T 
TT<$ TTT% TT’FF T'ffF WT tFtETT TT TTFt TWF f^T, 
HTTP 'TTTTT FWff tIt TCSTTjTT, TWIT TTT TV? 
T? TTT TWtflW WrgTF To To-7/68-69 TKF»T 
4-9-1968 V TTT f-WTfvFTT TTTVRV W^ITT tTTT 
$ :- 

f IT (g) Vi? (ff) %*WT wFfwFTfafffFTFHftT 
Ffi?i wir : — 

(t) WT-TT tFvFwt, 1957 tF TTTT 1 5-U 
sfl? 15-T % IT JlT, TT-T? vRjVTFr (WHITT), VT-T? 

wfFmFwf, fTOiTT-I, III, Iv, VL VII, VIII, IX 
Xll tV XlV 8TO fWTPWTT TffT WfaRTt 
TlV TTTT 'iurM f TT TO MTi I 

(ff) TT-TT TFTTTFF (TT?5), TT-TT vfVTT- 

foff faafar-I, ill, Iv, Vi, Vll, VIII. 

IX, XU tYf xlv am FtwWF? tvt 

arrfsfPPTf tF WWI TT% T!T?W Tt? T^TtF 

% fWl Tr TTW TtfiT I 
T? 'ErfFf^ETT 15 - 3-1971 % TTrFF $FtF I 

[To 26 ] 


ORDERS 

Nad pur, the 5th October 1970 

S.O. 3228.— Consequent on the abolition of the post 
of Additional Income-tax Officer, (HQ) vide this office 
Notification No. 16 (IT) (NAG)F70 of even date, Shri 
R. M, Krishhan, Additional Income-tax Officer (HO) 
in the office of the Additional Commissioner of Income- 
tax, Vidarbha and Marathwada, Nagpur in hereby ap- 
pointed as Income-tax Officer, (HQ) (P.R. & S.I.B.) 
in the office of the Commissioner of Income-tax, 
Vidarbha and Marathwada. Nagpur with iddediate 
effect. 

[No. 30.] 

W^ 

TTTp", 5 WfTTT, 1 97 0 

n*fo pt° 3228 . — tFtFcft tiwtt srFsnrFF 
(^STTWl) % TT TcTTFtT MT V tFttPT GT*T (m 
TwFwrqfF ttF rttW tT tFtrT'TTto ig (wo To) 
(TRT°)/7 0?F@n), TTFtFtW WTW WTTT, Fttv W 
9 t l' S TTST, ffFPV, TT?!?? T nsfF TWo TT° T NT ; 
wfffFefff WVTT WTTT (iJTTFW) TF, WTW WTTT; 
FtF<F T 7 T 5 T I TT TTfiTT, TT?Fw V WTTT tFtmV 

(*jWTT) (‘ft o WT o sftT ffffo wf O Tfo) V TT V 

frw wtt t i 

[TO 30] 


S.O. 3229, — Shri K. S, K. Murty, Chief Auditor in 
the office of the Commissioner of Income-tax, Vidarbha 
and Marathwada, Nagpur is hereby appointed to hold 
in addition to his own duties, the newly created charge 
of the office of the Income-tax Officer, (Recovery) 
Nagpur. 

[No. 31.] 

?To VF° 3 229. — TRIM W?T7, Tk TTTS- 
3 TO TWTT TwFtTT <tY % o Wo %o hfff, IJOT 
T^l, VTff Tffsiff T VfdfVTff TRFR tFrITF) (ff^) 
trt^t % tF Rf snrrf nf Tfti'TnFfdr Tir rnTT 

ttF % Ftp fdffTd Fwr ^rrrr % i 

[F ° 3 1] 

Nappur, the 15th October 1970 

S.O. 3230. — In exercise of the powers conferred on 
him by sub-section (I) of section 123 of the Income- 
tax Act. 1961 (43 of 1961) and all other powers en- 
abling him in this behalf, the Commissioner of Income- 
tax, Vidarbha & Marathwada, Nagpur, hereby makes 
the following amendments in the schedule appended 
to the notification No. IT-3 (NAG) /70, dated 11th May, 
1970 viz.: — 

“Against S. No. 2 viz. Inspecting Assistant Com- 
missioner of Income-tax. Range-II, Nagpur”. 
Following shall be deleted under cl. 3. 

S, No. 12 I.T.O., C-Ward, Wardha. 

S. No. 13 I.T.O., D-Ward, Wardha. 

and , , 

Following shall be added under clause 3. 
nt S. No. 12 I. T O., A-Ward. Chandrapur 
S. No. 13 I.T.O., D-Ward, Wardha. 

This order shall take effect from 15th October, 1970. 

[No. 17 IT(NAG)/70.] 
TFTTT, 15 TTrITT, 1970 

PRo Tto 3230. — TRT-TT TftTpffRT, 1961 ( 1961 
Tff 43) T?FRrcr 123 tFttRKT ( l) % STTT TT?T 
TrFmff tFt fff Mvt tt ttir ^nfr 
ttF wFettF ti T-ftT tt?F i|3r, trt-tt trjft, Fft'F 

TFt VCnTTTfT, dTff'V. T'Ri^n r ll To TTo 3(dPlo ) 
/70, TTFFJ 11-5-70 T TT*T TfJffF if fffPrFTFfT 
TTFtFT U/TTTTT Tldl VdFf[ 1 — 

"^t To 2 % TrrJr, t't’E]; Tfim tet-m: ti^rt 
(FRF fTT) — ii, Trn^T ” 

’ID? 3 % ffF% fTTTFrng'T TTT fTO offtTfiT I 

^T To 12, TTo To, TFsfo, t\ — TIT, TrF I 
TT To 13, Wo To tFT°, V-W$, TErf I 

PD? 3 % TT% fTwFTfffrT TTfT TTTTT tFt 

TT To 12 Wo To wFTo, T — wf, WTJT I 
TT To 13 Wo To, TfTo, ^ — TTS) I 

Tf WTT 15-10-7 0 ^ TTTTF 5>TT I 

[To 1 7— W o To(wTo)/7oJ 



Sec. 3(iri] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVTNA 29, 1894 4553 


Nagpur, the 6th April 1971 


S.O. 3231— In exercise of the powers conferred oi 
him by sub-section (1) of Section 123 of the Income 
tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) and all other powers en 
abling him in this behalf the Commissioner of Income* 
tax, Vidarbha and Mnrathwada, Nagpur hereby maker 
the following amendments in the schedule appended to 
the notification No. IT-3 (NAG) /70 dated 11th May, 
1970 viz.; — 

“Against S. No. 3 viz. Inspecting Assistnnt Com- 
missioner of Income-tax, Akola Range, Akola.’’ 

Following shall be deleted under Col. 3; 

Sr. No. 14 I. T O. D-Ward, Aurangabad 
Sr. No. 15 I.T.O. E-Ward, Aurangabad 

Following shall Added under Col. 3: 

at Sr. No. 14 I.T.O. A -Ward, Jalna 
Sr. No. 15 I.T.O. B-Ward, Jalna. 

This order shall take effect from 1st May, 1971. 

[No. ITT/ (NAG) /71.] 

TRTT r , fi 1971 

tTRo 5 ft 0 3231. — RTTTT flfftlfARR, 1961 

(1961 ’FT 43) # BTIT 123 # RWT (|) sTiTT RR 
jnrrr tfiftcrcr rYt ?r fAfA?r #A rrA trtA ti# 

T# ITT irM TT SPlFl TTY fA, TTfT RTTTT, 
fAFT TrVT rmSdlTT, ^TfST^TTl Ho R 1 0 To- 

3(?nT°)/70, 1 1-5-1970 A RFR KRijAY if 

fdHfAPT T TRIER UTTTFT TWtY tAt : — 

“TR Ro 3 % RTRA, ^TTTcT RfTTT RTTfT RTRF1, 
(f#Y«TR) R#RT Yr, RTTRT ”l 
RFR 3 T T-flT fRRfriP'3T tY HIM fATT 
RfRRr : — 

Ho 1 1 'tiro To> Ro R^TTf 1 ^TVTTTTTT 
^tr HO 15 5110 To 510 T-T17, rK'HTRTT 

FP-R 3 % UTR pTiTf TpRT # 4TT ^TTfrrrr 
sfiTo €0 14 Rio To, Ro T o— RTH, RPTHT I 
TR o A o 15RT°TioRo JJ— TrT, Rp-FTl I 

R^ RtAt 1-5-1971 11 RRr# $YrT I 

[Ao RT 0 To (THlo)/7 0] 


CORRIGENDA 
Nagpur, the 30 th June 1970 

S.O. 3232.— In exercise of the powers conferred by 
«ub-section (1) of Section 124 of the Income-tax Act, 
1961 (43 of 1961) and all other powers enabling him 
in this behalf, the Commissioner of Income-tax, Vidar- 
bha and Marathwada, Nagpur, hereby directs that the 
following amendments shall be made to the Order No, 


141-Nandeci/69-70 (Tech), dated the 28th March, 1970 
issued by the then CIT, Poona: 

(a) The following shall be added as item IV in Col. 
4 against the entry ol the I.T.O. B-Ward, Nanded: 

“IV All new cases arising out of survey operations 
or otherwise within the area and income limit 
specified above”. 

[No. J-47 (5-Nanded)/70.] 

wfeqr 

HTTR, 3 0 TR, 19 70 

rwTo 5fl o 323 2 — RPTTT RplPlRR, 1961 
( 1 96 1 TT 43) # cTPT 124# RRETDT ( 1 ) TPT RFT 

srPmi 1 fk PArr rr rrr tut tint rr! rt 

RpITlt T! TIFT T# tpT RTT-IT RIRTT, fwf rYt 
TTTTT fT, R1W, R'TTJFT fA#T TIT I fT WW RRJHR, 
yT, £FT TRt fTR Rrr HITT Ho 1 4 1 -RPRr/ 6 9- 7 0 
(flTo) RRYt 28 HIT, 1970 if fTRfAPdd AAtRR 
frrr Tpr : 

(T) R1TR RpTTKf, T-HTf, RF%R, SPA# 
T W, TBR 4 il, NT I V A NT if, 
friPlT TTfl TThiTT : 

“IV tit -fAfAfAw: otr Rfc rtr-AYrt 
% AhR HRT'I AfWRY H T FT 5R1RT 
R^Rcf RflY TtT R1RA” 

[Ao #-47 (5~*nwrr)/70] 

S.O. 3233. — In exercise of the powers conferred on 
him by sub-Scction (1) of Section 123 ol ths Income- 
tax Act, (43 of 1961) and all other powers enabling 
him in this behalf, the Commissioner of Income-tax. 
Vidarbha and Marathwada, Nagpur, hereby makes the 
following amendments in the schedule appended to 
the notification No. IT-3 (NAG)/70 dated 11th May, 
1970 viz. 

“Against S. No. 3 viz. Inspecting Assistant Com- 
missioner of Income-tax, Akola Range, Akola 
under Col. 3 the following shall be added: 

S. No. 15: ITO, E-Ward, Aurangabad. 

The existing serial number viz. 15 to 18 is re-arrang- 
ed as S. Nos. 16 to 19. 

[No. IT(NAG)/70.] 

V. J. KARNIK, 

Commission of Income-tax- 

rrJTo RTo 3213, — ' HWl RfAfARR, 1961 
( 1961 TT 43) # RTF 123 # TTHRT (l) 3KT 

ttn tiFtt# rYt ^r fAfAr rA rr# rriA rtrt rAY rt 

HlfTTcfi TT TTTH T# fR, rtrtT RRJRT, fATR R# 
RTiTRTfl, IlfjgTHT Ho TTiRT-3 (HTTo)/70 

1 1 - 5-70 A teft A fAirP-iRjT AAAft 

ticf?5TTT TTIT TtAt 

“TR Ao 3 % RBTA RTF[ TMTRT ITRTTT Nl'fH 

(fAfTsm) uTin At ttitt, tthr 3 
% AtA friR-fApFl #t?T TThHT : 
spi A° is : irfAnfr, Jo jri, 

ifrtRlRTT I 



[Part It- 


4^54 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVlNA 29, 1894 


fWTR ^6R Ro, RT^ 1 5 it 1 8 TP, ’PT ^fiSTT 1 6 % 
1 9 cPF % TR R JR: RRRtf%R Tt TJTTTft | I 

, [TT o R1TPT (TTo)/70] 
Efto Ro RTWT REJfd I 


MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND POWER 

New Delhi , the 28 th July 1972 

S.O. 3234, — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 3 of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 (54 of 
1948) and in partial modification of this Ministry’s 
Notification No, EL. 11-28 (9) /71 dated the 20th July, 
1971, the Central Government hereby appoints Shri N. 
Venkatesan, Member (Utilization), Central Water and 
Power Commission (Power Wing), as a Member of the 
Central Electricity Authority vice Shri B. N. Ojha. 

[No. EL.II-28(8)/72.] 

M. RAMANATHAN, 
Deputy Director (Power) . 

f*PTT$ Rk fTTT WEPT 
Tf FTcRt, 28 RTfS, 1972 

TT RT o 32 14, — FnRt ( K'-'TTt ) rFiFtRR, 
1948 ( 1 948 TT 54) % WZ 3 TTU TTccT RFfRRt 
RT RRk «RfI jrr ?fk RRTRR 4ft TferfTTT Ro 

Tt- 28 ( 9 )/ 7 i, ftprir 20 1971 ir rtFur 

RRtRR RTfi ftt R l+K irR^gTTT «ft fTRo TTRTRR 

RTUI (r^TRHt), RT Rk FujT RTR>T (Ft^R 

PfEtr), «Ft 'sftTto fTRo R^fl % UTFT TT ksflR fRTTt 
HTFRTTT % TO4 % RT R, Fr^TR RTcfr | I 

[Ro fRo-Tl-28(8)/72] 

TRo TRRTRR, 

* 

TlfR^RT I 


MINISTRY OF SHIPPING AND TRANSPORT 
(Transport Wing) 

New Delhi, the 3rd August 1972 

S.O. 3235. — In pursuance of sub-section (1) of sec- 
tion 4 of the Indian Lighthouse Act, 1927 (17 of 1927), 
the Central Government hereby appoints Shri K. K, 
Shetty, Member, Lok Sabha to be a Member of the 
Central Advisory Committee and makes the following 
amendment to the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Shipping and Transport (Tra- 
nsport Wing) No. S.O. 1421 dated the 19th February, 
1972, namely: — 

In the said notification, for item 14 and entry relating 
thereto, the following item and entry shall be subs- 
tituted, namely: — 

"14. Shri K. K. Shetty, Member, Lok Sabha 
Navketan Padil, Mangalore-7, South Kanara 
District, Mysore State,”. 

[No. F, 4-ML(7)/71.] 
B, K. SAHI, Under Secy. 


RFrZR Rk RfURTE RRRR 

(tFr^r to) 

RRt fe-RV, 3 RE^R, 1972 

TT ° Rf° 3235. — ETCffk TtERT RFafEEK, 1927 
( 1 92 7 TT 17) RTTT 4 ^ RWTO ( l) % RERRT 
R, %hftR RTTTT TT^^sm RT % o % o RT^T, RlT R'flT 
TT kflE RTTfTTC RFiFr T RERT % rp; gruTl % 

Rk fPtf RWTT % hk^T Rk Tfk^R RRTHE (iFCE^E 
to) tF rFr^TRT R«TI RT O RTo 1 421 fTETO 1 9 RTRTir, 
1 9 7 2 it FnrFRfTR RRIRR TTdt RET^ : 

TTR RFy^RRT it RT 1 4 Rk RfRRRt ufafe it fkR- 

FrFtr rt Rk rFeFt siFcPtFei Ft Tnuft, RErq; : 

" 1 4 Rt % o %■ o l^^t, 

RTRT, TTO RR1, 

TTTcFT rtFrt, 

RR'FR- 7. 

EfRT TOTfT fRRT, 

TI3T l” 

[r©r rt o 4 ->;r tjr ( 7) /7 1] 

k TT O !f : O RT^r, R rt rFrt 1 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND 
BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 13 th July 1972 

S.O. 3236. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
Section 5(1) of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 and sub- 
rule (3) of rule 8 read with sub-rule 2 of rule 9 of 
the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1958, the 
Central Government hereby re-appoints the following 
persons after consultation with the Central Board 
of Film Censors as members of the Advisory Panel 
of the said Board at Bombay with effect from 1st 
July, 1972 upto 30th September, 1972; — ■ 

1. Shri Kama’.eshwar 

2. Smt, Dinabai K. Dubash 

3. Prof. K. G. Aggarwal 

4. Shri S. S. Rege 

5. Prof. (Smt.) Vijaya Rajadhyaksha, 

6. Shri D. G. Nadkarni 

7. Prof. Murli Thakur 

8. Shri G. K. Dutia 

9. Dr. (Smt.) Charusheela B. Gupta 

10. Smt, Kamala Tilak. 

11. Smt. Padma K. Desai. 

12. Dr. (Miss) Labuben S. Sonejl 

13. Smt, Nalini S, Sukthankar. 

14. Smt. Maniben Desai 

15. Smt, T. V. Dehejia 

16. Smt. Laxmi Wahl 

17. Shri S. D. Shah 

18. Shri Ganga Ram Josh! 

19. Shri Rama Narang. 

20. Shri U. A. Thadanl, 

21. Shri R. K. Sonl, 

22. Shri S. E. Hassnaln 

23. Smt. Kamala Dua, 

24. Shri Talakshi Shah 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4555 


Sec. 3(ii)J 


2b. Shri Rajnarain Singh. 

26. Smt. R. S. Boga. 

27. Shri M. N. Siddiqi. 

28. Shri A. K. Banerjee. 

29. Smt. Indira Dhanraj Girji. 

80. Shri Rasik J. Shah. 

31. Smt. Mrinalini Choksi. 

32. Smt, Lulita N. Bapat. 

33. Smt. S. Gulrajani. 

[No. F. 11/3/72-FC.] 

^TTT JT0R7T 

0# fTTTT, 1 3 197 2 

00 o <fr o3236. — srfafrtnr, 195.2 skt 

5 ( l) sfk (00T) fi001WT, 1 958 % REPT 9 

% 00f000 ( 2 ) % 0PT <Tf50 RePT 8 % BT-RPPT ( 3) 5TG 
flfKTTTTT TT SPTRl TT 0 c, rT ., % r ?ET O'PtdT % 

fwr rbt Tti % i7nfrr tt% RptRiRpt eqfecmf 

Tt q^afx c^virt, 19 7 2 0 3 0 fTTTr^T, 1 97 2 rPP, TTTd *flf 
>fc snrf fErr^nr 000 00 far ft rutt farqt $ 

1 . ft 

2 . sfhTRt ?TdTTTt % O ^TT 

3 . tft Q % 0 jfr o tnrqTT 

4 . ifro(«nwf) fomrxrmem 
s. ft qr o itr o tf)- 

6 . NV o tfft 0 dTq-k 'if 
? . ft O JJT0f 3TTT 

8. %o^o|fdtrT 

9. ST o (’TReR) Tr^TfYTT ft o ^0 

10. s 4Er?fr T 0 TT f0007 

1 1 . *ft0dt CT % O 3Enf 

12. si O (TRTCr) WTT <T0 o E ftsft 

1 3 . s 8Errt sfart 1*0 ° 

1 4 . ■sffarft ’rfw ^ 0 Tf 

15. sfErcft ^to St. 

16. sffatft 5T«f«ft 4Tft 

17. ^000^001$ 

18. ft TOTTiT sfhjft 

19. ft 700 THTT 

2 0. «ft 0 H 0 05T0V 

21 . o WT o % o 0 Rft 

22 . «ft tr^r 0 §0 

23 . wit ^rr 

24. ft STTrcft 5T1^ 

25. TTSdTTTqor 

26 . *nr o ctr o 

27. ft ° T?T ° RrfftV 

28. ft (£ o % o anrsff 

29 . sftarft sfara 00700 Rrcft 

30. ft 4.f04* 71 o iflT;J 

31 . 


32. MR#! 0f0dT (T 0 o SETS 

33. ytTdt C[ 0 ° 

[05000 00° H/3/72-^01'®] 

S.O. 3237.— In exercise of the powers conferred by 
Section 5(1) of the Cinematograph Act, 1962, and 
Sub-rule (3) of rule 8 read with Sub-rule (2) of rule 
9 of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1858, the 
Central Government hereby re-appoints the following 
persons after consultation with the Central Board of 
Film Censors, as members of the Advisory Panel of 
the said Board at Madras with eil'ect from 1st July, 
1972 upto 30th September, 1972: — - 

1. Shri T. Neelakanthan. 

2. Smt. Soundra Kailasara. 

3. Shri Pakaia Suryanarayana Rao. 

4. Shri Mohd. Yousuf Kokan. 

5. Shri M. Govlndan, 

6. Smt. C. L, Meenakshi Amma. 

7. Shri P. V, Chalapatheswara Rao. 

8. Prof. M. Mariappa Bhat. 

9. Smt. Mary Clubwala Jadhav. 

10. Shri P. K. Ramalingam. 

11. Shri G. Varadappa. 

12. Smt. R. Suvarna. 

13. Smt. Ammu Swammalhan. 

14. Smt. P. V. Bhagirathi. 

15. Smt. Bertha Lobo. 

lb. Smt. Indira D. Kothari. 

17. Smt. Malati Chcndur. 

18. Shri C. R. Sarma. 

19. Shri P. S. Srinivasa. 

20- Smt. Raji Rangaehari. 

21. Smt. Padmini Achutha Menon. 

22. Smt. N. S. Mani. 

23. Dr. S. Vijayalakshmi. 

24. Smt. Leela Parthasarathi. 

25. Kurnuri P. Shanta Bai. 

28. Smt. M- Leelavathi. 

27. Smt. Sarojini Varudappan. 

28. Smt. Rohini KrJshnachandra. 

29. Dr. (Miss) C. M. Leelavali. 

30. Smt. Hem'-ata Anjaneyulu. 

31. Smt. Sara Syed Yusuff. 

[No. F. 11/4/72-FC.] 

PTTo sflo 323 7. — STfaRPHT, 1952 ft UT70 
5 ( 1 ) 0 Y 0 TTfrsr (mx) ReptetstV 1958 % Rept 9$ 
TtEfTT ( 2 ) % 0T0 Tfed RePT 8 % TTRePT ( 3) 8070 
SfTT srfspETd 0>T spfET TTT 0PJT0 TOE % '^TTifRT 
Rfk-l 007: iti 0 TC00 TT4 T TTT, r^dR-llNT 
sq-fTTcff Tt 1 ^Tif, 19 72 0 30 pTcTrsTT, 1 97 2 iPF, 

TTd *ti t, TSTfT T0 TT 0TTT 0 Rf0T 

^ " 

1 . ssft €\o 0 E?rqi 00 

2 . >5f!00lr 0 >ST ^ 0 T 00 

3 . 0 +MT gTTTTETT TT 0 

4 . ssft tfr^TT ^0i ^0 
5 , ft tf 0 o 0 TRe ^0 

6 . 0 T° ft^ft ^0T 

7 _ iffo Tt o 0 710 

8 . TTo E 0 o tTW-TT WGS 

9 . sft0^V qT 0 T 0 MT 



[Part 11 — 


4556 fHE G AZE TTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 , i9'/2/ASVlNA 29, 1894 


10 . sft 'fto Tmf(pm 

11. 3ft 0 

12 . STTCo 

13. WEdUftdmd 

14. ’sfrtRft'ffo ifto KTTdftaft 

15. sfrRtft ddf (ffat 

16. irratft 

18. sfl Tfto WKo STd? 

19 . >sft tflo qg-o >sfrfddm 

20 . ^ftdcft Tf5ft ddTdPff 

21. sftdcft 'Tfdd'ff 5T^rT ifdd 

22 . *sftddt t{do fftfo TTfoT 

23. 2Ro rrf[o f^pTmaift 

24. >sfVd(ft ^ft"TT qr«fErn?ft 

25. ^Errft'fro UlRdT dTt 

26. ‘sfldcft l[do 

27 . ^fETcfr (rufddf dTdmd 

28. 'Sfmcfr TTFiJdt dTOdv? 

29. dTo (sgtrrtt) €to Tdo 

30 . «ft^rdt 

3 1 . sftTRft (ircr (?dd 

[WI'ETo ll/ 4 / 72 -t^Bo (fto] 

S.O. 3238 , — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 5(1) of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 and sub- 
rule (3) of rule 8 read with sub-rule (2) of rule 9 of 
the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1968, the Cen- 
tral Government hereby ree-appolnts the following 
persons after consultation with the Central Board of 
Film Censors, as members of the Advisory Panel of 
the said Board ,at Calcutta with effect from 1st July, 
1972 upto 30th September, 1972: — 

1. Sint. Uma Sahanabis. 

2. Shrl Sailen Mookerji. 

3. Smt. Kajal Sen Gupta. 

4. Smt. Abu Sayeed Ayyub. 

6. Smt. Shaibya Dutt. 

8. Smt. Asha Purna Debi. 

7. Smt. Rita Ray. 

8. Shri Sujit K. Chakrabarli. 

9. Shri R. P. Gupta. 

10. Shri Anant Mahapatra. 

11. Shri Saumyendra Nath Tagore. 

12. Smt, Usha Kan. 

13. Shri Ranen Ayan Dutta. 

14. Smt. Jayasree Sen. 

LNo. F. 11/5/72-FC.] 
tJRo ?fto 3238- — ddfdd dfafddd 1952 ^ ETKr 

5 (1) *frc (tf(R) fdWd^fr i 958 %fddd 9% 
ijqfttp T (2) % (R*T dfsd fddd 8 % TqiWT ( 3 ) 3TTT 
JFfrT wftrero tt smfd (nddx d 

fom rbt dfi r irmir ^d % dm fdmfwfdTd 
sqftddt 1 1972 d 30 fd-UdT, 1972 (FE, ddd 

<4 f £ % °b <r| <r> rTT tl-'li oi'l ' l ?' 1 '1 dd Ptv r % (fd(d fdffTT ^ ‘ 

1. STfacft TdT 

2 . ss ft (Nfd 

3 . Mtacft dddid 


4. shdr dsr 

6. j sftddt !iwr 5«rf 

7. sftddt ^fdT t 

8. «ft f5fT?r%o ddddf 

9. sftOTTo 'fto TO 

4 

10 . ^ 5mm 

11 . «ft ?ft#s dm frr 

12. sftddt 3TT *3Td 

13. ^ TTdd 5ETd dfT 

1 4 . MYFRft SRPSft %d 

[(1WT Tlo 11/5/72-1^0 ((ft) ] 

S.O. 3239.— In exercise of the powers conferred by 
Sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Cinematograph 
Act, 1952, the Central Government heioby re-appoints 
the fol. owing persons as members of the Central 
Board of Film Censors with effect from 1st July, 
1972 upto 30th September, 1972:— 


SI. No. Name. 


1. Shri B. R. Agarwal. 

2. Shri A. L. Srinivasan. 

3. Shri B. R. Chopra. 

4. Shri B. N. Sircar. 

5. Smt. Vcena Duggal, 

8 . Smt. M. NasruUah. 

7. Smt. Surrinder Gupta. 


[No. F. 11/6/72-FC.J 

S. N. MITAL, Under Secy. 

tTtfo ffto 3239. — dufdd dfafadd, 1952 dfVtJKT 

3 T[ dTJTU ( 1 ) 5TTT r 4W difUEIdt TT TdTd ^ §<* 

TOjtd (TWC d itcT^XRT fwkfei sqfdOTT Tt 1 

1972 (t 3 0 fad-fdC, 1 9 7 2 dT, 'dPStT f'EcR (f(TT fttf dd 

fafC % (RUT fd^W fodT | 


w (fdqr dm 


1 . 

sff^to 5TTC° STJdUT 

2 . 

%ftffo rr?fo yfrfddurd 

3. 

5ff 0 5TTCo dtT?T 

4. 

«ff dfo lTdo (TWR 

5. 

affddf 5f[dT I? w 

6 . 

^ffddt tf d 0 dh^'c'-TT^ 

7. 

«fmdt Tcj 


[dSdTWo 11/6/72^1)0(^0] 


ffdo Ti 0 fddd, dTC dfdd 1 


New Delhi, the 2nd August 1972 

S.O. 

3240.— In exercise of the powers conferred by 


Sub-section (2) of Section 5 of the Cinematograph 
Act, 1952, the Central Government has been pleased 
to appoint Shri Pramod Pati, Deputy Chief Producer, 
Films Division, Bombay as Regional Officer, Central 
Board of Film Censors, Bombay with effect from 
24th July, 1972 (forenoon) until further orders. 

[No. 2/38/72-FC.] 

By order and in the name of the President. 

S. N. MITAL, Under Secy. 



Sec. 3 (ill] 


4557 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVTNA , 29, 1894 


■Tf 2 M RTR, 19 72 

'► riv? ' 

’f ‘ ■ ■**r>T» ; 

$'! PRo Rio 324 (i. — RR fRR ^firPlTR, 1 952 dft STITT 

; 5 rJ Tran ( 2 ) % sm RfRRTft tt wtpt TTcr fp, 

WF R fdwR RRTR, Rwf if TT RAR qrSRRP 2ft 
spite qfr te 24 wf, 1972 (Rutte) R wir niter rp, 
STEtftTT srffarcrft, teted RRT at?, R Rif fRTRR fw I :- 

[TTMTTTO 2/ 3 8 72-PRio (fft)] 
Ti^qfa % rtr- Jr ct«tt rrr w%rtrrit 

■A >3 

rrPToTT^o fRHR, WIT Rfted I 


ministry of foreign trade 

New Delhi, the 29th July, 1972. 

S.O. 3241. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause (b) of sub-section (31 of section 4 of the Central 
Silk Board Act, 1948 (91 of 1948), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby appoints the Textile Commissioner, Minis- 
try of Foreign Trade, Government of India as a member 
of the Central Silk Board for n period of three years 
from the date, of issue of this notification. 

[No. F. 21/1/70-Tex/F),] 
fte'R sqTTTT RRRTRR 

Rf fcRft, 29 vjWt, 1972 

quo Wo 324i. — %tete trr r>r RfsrfteR 
1948 ( 1 948 RR 6l) te RUT 4 ^TOTITI (3) % 

(®r) am spur Rtetet tt spite qu% fir teifte ron 
w*jrr, fater °rtwt rrerpt, wtr rgmt, te 
*r frftr^wrr % wtt tfte te Rrrter Jr Rte dte te wrfs - 
% fwr %tete teTR WE# % D^FT RRTT%TO Jr N.d'fSRT 
TRft % I 

[RoRRo 2l/l/7 0-2TO (nqr)] 

S.O. 3242.-— In exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause (b) of sub-scctJon (3) of Section 4 of the Central 
Silk Board Act, 1948 (61 of 1948), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby appoints Shri R. M. Doiphode, Director, 
Ministry of Foreign Trade as a member ol the Central 
Silk Board in place of Shri Daulat Ram, Under Sec- 
retary, Ministry of Foreign Trade and makes the 
following further amendment in the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Foreign 
Trade No. S.O. 1522. dated the 23rd April, 1970. 
namely: — 

In the said notification against serial number 1, the 
following shall be substituted, namely: — 

“Shri R. M. Doiphode. Director, Ministry of Foreign 
Trade.” 

I No. F. 21/l/70-Tex(F).] 
R. M, DOIPHODE, Director. 

Tlo Wo 3 24 2. — %tete tejrf Tff RfirfRRR, 
1948 ( 1 9 48 RT 61 ) Rt RUT 4 te RWU (3) % 

(U) 3TTT STRUT tflHldtfl RT STRIR Rtel gP teste 

tot, fater ortrtt rebhr Jr wit Rfwr «ft stew tut 


% fro qr teter cstttr: rriprr r ftewr, ! te wto ipto 
Rlitete Rf Rmfte TSTpT WR % rr^r R7TR % RR R d/l f^atl <1 
fRf RJ RTft | RtT RTTR R NT ftedT 5RIRTT RfftTEET 
te RfspJRRT Ro TTo Wo 15 22 fRRPT 23 WFT, 1970 

Jrsrte wJ? fdwfRfwr Rwtwr qrter£, stttt 

TRR RfuRRRT R RR RTTT 1 % PTRR fR WP-ifq TR 
Rt srfRtrRTfqR fdW oflifRl, wrffl 

"Nl WTo PR 0 
fdTRT, 

faRtU «nwf RnTFW” I 

[do To 2l/l/70-^W(tPHo)] 

WT o PRo | 

New Delhi, the 3rd. August, 1972. 

S.O. 3243. — -In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (1) of section 17 of the Textiles Committee 
Act, 1963 (41 of 1963), and on the recommendation 
made to it In this behalf by the Textiles Committee, the 
Central Government hereby makes the following 
amendment in the notification of the Government of 
India In the Ministry of Foreign Trade, No. S.O. 2200, 
dated the 28th May, 1971 (as amended by the notifica- 
tion of the Government of Indta in the Ministry of 
Foreign Trade, No. S.O. 209, dated the 26th November, 
1971), namely: — 

In the said notification in the proviso, for the 
words “one year”, the words "eighteen 

months” shall be substituted. 

TNo. F. 25011/34/7r-Tex A-] 
N. C. RUSTAGI, Under Secy. 

R^fedfV, 3 TO, 1972. 

Tlo Wo 3243. — TCT dfd% SffafTTR, 1963 
( 196 3 RT 41 ) Tt WTT 17 RWKT ( l) iUTT TO 
Hl'pMRl* TT wflR fT RVd RRSf RtVfd I ITT ffifRlR 
qft vi IWRTfTR TT, RTTTT WTR RTWT % 

fR^R RTPTTT RRTRR RV RfR^WTT dfo TTo Wo 2200, 
dTfPS 28 Rf, 1971 (RTTR RTTR % ftr^R TORTT 
RwTTRR d?r RfURdPT do Tlo Wo 209, dl(1«T 26 
RRFRT, 1971 5 ITT RW RRVtTR) if PcTTITO 
RRfSTT RTrft {[, Wdfcl 

RdR RfugRRl Jr, Jr, "PR R’f” RiTf % RTOT 

qr “rakr r^%" dur qfffTRTfqR Ttp rbT7 i 

[do RTo 2501 1/ 34/7 I-Jtr(^)] 

PRo ffj-o RTRfV, RRT RfRR I 

(Office of the Chief Controller of 
Imports and Exports) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 7th July, 1972. 

S.O. 3244. — M/s. Gobind Ram & Sons Ludhiana, who 
were granted Import licence No. P/D/2174388/C/XX/ 


455 ® 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCIOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Pari II — 


dated 25th August, 1970 lor Rs. 5,830 from Central Area 
for import of one capston slide complete for capston 
lathe as permissible spare parts of machinery required 
for the manufacture of Sewing machines, have request- 
ed for isuue of duplicate copy of the Customs Purposes 
copy of the licence on the ground that the original Cus- 
toms copy has been lost by Customs House, Bombay. 
It has been further reported bv the liccncee that the 
said licence was lost without having utilised at all and 
was not registered with any of the customs authorities. 
The licencee has, however, cleared the goods on bond 
procedure basis. 

2. In support of their contention the applicant has 
filed an affidavit. The undersigned is satisfied that the 
original customs nurposes copy of the Licence No. P/D/ 
2174388/C/XX. dated 25th August. 1970 has been lost 
and directs that a duplicate customs purposes copy of 
the said licence should he issued to them. The original 
customs purposes copy of the said licence is hereby 
cancelled, 

[No. SM /1 (E) / 70 . 7 ] /RMI/ 1068 .] 
G. D. BAHL, 

Dy. Chief Controller of Imports & Exports. 
JThB fft BBT, "H I ■9 M-fftB?B TT TPTfBB 
TTTT9T 

fftcHf, 7 TBT&, 1972 

</ 

ftfto Wfo 3244 - — Rftftf TiPHT TPT iff ftTT, 
ftf d IH HI iJffT ft fftBT$ ftf Ruffd % fftftriT 
% fftir NETWT WNT % NBfftd ffiftf % TB ft ftcEST fttN % 
fftr ITT ftcftEN PTl^t JfTRcffe % iTETET % fair 5,8 30 
% fftr^ NTNET Hr^HH fto Tft/ftr/2174388/ftr/PTT PBR 
fftfitT 25 - 8-1970 SPTFT fftfiT BBT NT I HElfft BT?ftft 

ftf h i !)['•+' NfttNB srfft ftf Ndfftf'i xfft ft fro; vr need; 
TB fw ft fft ftftTTW/BT TTftrBN, NTT? fm RB 
srfft ^rr Tf ft i BT^ftRNrfr sm net ntt tbett 

*ETT ft fft 'd'kl BTTftR TT tt’b) ftf BINTR fiftf fftNT 09 1 NT 
ftfr Bft fefl Tfr ftfttroT?Nr tWibb ft ftftrrB ftrf t hni 
w *rr i ftfftr, BT^ftBNTfr ft fttr NfftBT % otott bt nth 

ftf fftTItff TB Hf | I 

NBft fift ft Rtpffi ft TRENT ft ITT WET TN NlfftH 
fftfilftl WRftrEBTNBftft^ftfTBTBRRft°Tft/fr /21743 88 
ftt/i^W ITW fftltT 25 - 8-1970 Ti NT ftftTRlJBE 

srfttTB srift iftt ft Et | ftk fftftw ftrr ft fft bnn HT^ftft 

ftf NBfftfft ftfaTT^BT JlftRT trfft W# Niff Tl NETT Wlfftp | 

si'td BT![ftTr ftf IJB ftlRp^w 5fif| j)d tffft ftf 1 < q q S I •> I 

NT^T ft T% fftNT NETT ft I 

[ftWT tttp.tttt/ 1 (^)/7 0-7 1 /sqTT.TTPT. 1/1068] 

fttto ftto N^N, 

BN^/iB Pi MB T 24 H Id-fdoT/l I 


(Office of tile Chief Controller of 
Imports and Exports) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 2nd August 1972 

S.O, 3245. — The Chief Electrical Engineer, Assam 
State Electricity Board, Shillong was granted licence 
No. G/AU/1034839, dated 23-2-68 for import of com- 
ponents for PDCC equipment from GCA. The Chief 
Electrical Engineer, Assam State Electricity Board, 
Shillong has reported that custom purposes copy of 
the licence has been misplaced and he has requested 
to Issue, duplicate copy of tho same. 

In support of his contention the applicant has filed 
an affidavit. The undersigned is satisfied that tho 
customs purposes copy of the licence has been lost 
and directs that the duplicate copies of the said cus- 
toms copy of the licence be issued. 

The original customs copy of the licence has been 
cancelled. A duplicate copy of the same is being issu- 
ed separately. 

[No. 2]SG[339|07.88|PLS1B|539.] 

By Order, 
SARDUL SINGH, 

Dy. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, 
for Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 

1J3N fftftTT, NTBTN-fdBTB TT TPT?BN 
STlftN 

B$ feftt, 2 NffiRT, 1972 
PRo ftto 3245. — -TJUT fftfJT NfftTTr, TFTR 

SrftST fft^T fttl, fvETriT ftf THTET 1JT NT ft ftt TT?r ft) ftv 

TT?TTT% fftrr TTfftf ft NEird ft fftrr PE BTTftft ft^TT 
ftt/n; T/1034839, fftTEfi 2 3-2-68 TTET fftTT TfiT Tr I 

■Eftfft TTdr ftt ft fft NreftT ftr ftmrw-E fftrrftl ffft 

N r 4T'T5T fft fit ft NftT Trftfft dft ftftn 9T7E fdTTftr 
tRt ftr N^rnPi ft fftrer neItt fftqT ft i 

NTft dft ft ft NT4TT ft PT HWTT TTfNT ffiTT 

ft I NftTZHTrNTf ftd/H ft fft HTTftT ft[ fttfiNJcT ffiTlftr 

Tfft ftT El ft ft1~ fftftT ftdT ft fft LET ftr ftTTT- 

B5E Tfd ft! NfifBfT Nfft-EtT ft[ BTTT ftf BTh | 

BTlftft ftT ftrfiTTJ-T fftTlftt TT ftf fift ft I 

BTftr Nlft5(T Tft NBft ft ftrrr ftT BT TftT ft I 

[ft^Tf 2/PT ftr/3 39/6 7-68/Tr PB PT/ftr/5 39] 

Nfft-'T ft, 
BT^B fft ft, 

BT-B^E fft ft BE, NET PT fft BET, 
Tft JJBT fftftBT, NrftET-fdTTB I 


(Office of the Joint Chief Controller of 
Imports and Exports) 

ORDER 

Bombay, the 3rd November. 1970, 

S.O. 3246. — Licence Nos. P/S/1643179, dated 23rd 
October, 1969, for Rs. 5,625 for import of N.E. oils of 
permissible types as per AM-70 Red Book Aniline, Beta 



Sec. 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4559 


Napthol and (2) P/S/1043180, dated 23rd October, 
1909 for |Rs. 9,62.0 for import of N.E. Oils Aromatic 
Chemicals and Aniline were issued to M/s. Mahendra 
Chemicals, 4/41 Pardeshipura Indore, Madhya Pradesh, 
subject to the conditions as under: — 

“that the goods imported thereunder shall be utili- 
sed In their factory and no portion thereof 
shall be sold to any other party or utilised or be 
permitted to be used in any other manner,” 

2. Thereafter, a show cause notice No. 1/123/70/ATJ/ 
Enf/3545, dated 23rd July, 1970 was issued ashing them 
to show cause within 15 days as to why the said licences 
In their favour should not be cancelled on the ground 
that the aforesaid licences were obtained bv them 
by misrepresentation oJ-facts in terms of Clause 9. Sub- 
Clause (a). 

3. No reply to the aforesaid show cause notice issued 
to M/s. Mahendra Chemicals. Indore has come within 
the period stipulated in the said show cause notice. 

4. The undersigned has carefully considered the matter 
and have come to the conclusion that the licences in 
question wore obtained "by them by misrepresentation 
of facts, 

5. Having regard to what has been stated In the 
preceding paragraph the undersigned is satisfied that 
the licences In question should be cancelled or other- 
wise rendered Ineffective. Therefore, the undersigned, 
in exercise of the powers vested in her und°r Clause 9 
Sub-Clause (a) of the Imports (ControA Order 1995 
hereby cancels the licences Nos. P/S/1G43179 dated 23rd 
October. 1989 for Rs. 5,025 and (21 P/S/1643180 daled 
23rd October. 1969 for Rs. 5.G25 issued in favour of M/s. 
Mahendra Chemicals Indore-2. 

[No. 1/23/70/AU/Enf.l 
R. D. MANGAT, 

Dy. Chief Controller of Imports & Exports. 

RAT f/RTTT, OTTTT-fTTfT RT] RTTrTT 

Risif, 3 1970 

tTRo R>o 3246. — RRRf 4/41 

c n$l%<T J Ro To R> Rlfar-RRf, 1971 fR i|R 

% fHRRTT F^ffR RRo #o RTRR, sffin 

rfrstftR % ill 9 id % f^DT 5,62 5 GH9 RT RTRTR ct i a/rR 
Ro tfro/iTRo/1643179 fRTTR 23-10-1969 RRT TRo 
£o RPTR, rnftq f R"R %fRRF7T RRT Rfdofld % RETTR % 
fRR 5,625 RRT RT RPTPT RIRTR Ro iffo/TRo/ 1 6 43 1 80 
fRRTR 23-10-1969 fRTRftfRFT Rcff % RT^ftR *tJrr 
fRR ijir 

"fR ^R % RR^RR RTRlfTR RTR RT RRRtR RR^ R7T- 
ST% Jr fRRT RI%RT rV" RR RT Rtf rT RFT fdRfr iRR TPff 
Rt RRT R^f RPTRT RW RRR>T R# fRRT RFTfiT RW 
RRf fRlft RT Jr RTRtR RGt % fRR £iffRf>r Rjff ft RTTRfV 

2. RRPTTTR, T[R RTTR RRTRt RtfSR Ro l/ 12 3/70/ 
ITo^o/f iTR/Rq;/3545 fRRfR 23-7-70 RR ^t |tt -srrft 
rV Rf tiff fR 15 fRRt % tftdT RTRR RRTR fR RR% RTR 
if RTTf far R% RRR RTfRR RTTT 9, RT-RITT (it) 


5TRRP: TTf R trr rv ferr - 41 % ^rrfkrr, iffy R ^R RTRTT 

TT fR RRJRT TTfRR RR% TRT RRff RcTT R RINK TT TFR 

fRR rt r | 

3. R## R^T RrfRRyR, % RTR TTpft f%IT 

RR RTR RTTW RTRift RtfSR % fair rrr ^fRf fRSrffTR 
RRfR % ■•ffar Rff RrRR TTTT Rjff f Rt £ I 

4. RRl/tiPilff Jt RPTR Rt rFr Rif=r RTR RTvft| 
ifft RR qfRJTlR TT TpT | fRlRTtflR RT^R RR% 
SIRI RRR RrRf R RTRTT RT HTFR fftr rtt ^ | 

5- RTfRt RfTRT Jf Rt RRTTT RRT ^ BRIR Jf 

fir, snft^rr^Kf ? rr | ret- 

f R 7^4 RW iFRRt RT ft RTRlffR' fRrr 10% RT%T | 
^RfRT, RRtfRTFSrff; RTTfR (fRRRR) irr4Rr, 19 5 5 ^ RlTr 
9, TT-Rtrr (rr) R RVRRR tftfRTRf Rt TRTR RTR ^rr 
RTTRR TfRTrrf TV/TR/ 1 643 1 79 f^RTR 23-10 69 ^?R 

5,625 Rtf RRt( 2 ) ff/rrR/ 1643180 fRRTR 23 - 10-69 
RcR 5,625 RTR ft Rf Rt R^ RfttRRR, &K-2 ^ 
RTR Rtft fRR Rtr Jr, rrR^417T T44 RTRI | I 

[R° 1/ 123/70/mt/f itr- rr<f] 

RK o fto RRR, 
fRTfaR, OTRTR'-fRRtR I 


(Office of the Dy. Chief Controller of 
Imports and Exports) 

ORDER 

Ernakulam, Cochin, the 4th April 1972 

. 3247. — The following import licences were issued 

to M/s. \. B. R. Industry, Kochangadi, Cochin-2 subject 
to actual user conditions under the registered exporters 
policy: — 


1. P/L/2594894, 

2. P/L/25951 29; 

Rs. 16,447. 

cl u ted 

dated 

9th July, 19G9 for 
14th October, 

Rs. 

1969 

5,203. 

for 

3. P/L/2595378, 
Rs. 6,599. 

dated 1st 

January, 

1970 

for 

4. P/L/2595G97, 
Rs. 3,492. 

dated 

10 th 

March, 

1970 

for 

5. P/L/2618800, 
Rs, 11,167. 

dated 

22nd 

June, 

1970 

for 

6. P/L/2G18902, 
Rs. 11,040. 

dated 

20th 

August, 

1970 

for 

7, P/L/2G11193. 
Rs. 11,508. 

dated 

7 th November, 

1970 

for 


2. Thereafter, a show cause notice No. Chn-17-71-72/ 
Enf., dated 23rd December, 1971 was Issued asking them 
to show cause within 15 days as to why the aforesaid 
licences in their favour should not bo cancelled on the 
ground that the licences will not serve the purpose for 
which they were granted. 

3. In response to the aforesaid show cause notice, 
M/s. Y. B. R. Industry had vide their letters dated 31st 
December. 1971 and 14Lh March, 1972 furnished explana- 
tion and had also asked for a personal hearing with the 
undersigned. For personal hearing one Sri P. V. 
Raghunath said to be a Representative of the firm, 



4560 


[Part II— 


THF GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


appeared before the undersigHecl. None oT the part- 
ners of the firm called on the undersigned for personal 
hearing. In their reply it was contented that the unit 
was not closed and that the unit~woUld be revived after 
receipt of financial assistance frOm bank. They held 
certain stocks of processed shrimps in the Cold storage 
of certain other unit. At the time of processed hearing 
the representative admitted that duo to financial diffi- 
culties the unit -was closed for the time being. They 
contented that In and around Kernla there was dearth 
of catches and financial set due to steep fall of price in 
America and exporters were facing big crisis. They 
expected to revive their industry when they get finan- 
cial aid from the bankers and therefore, the raw mate- 
rials against the licences issued were quite essential 
and required. 

4. The undersigned has carefully examined the said 
representation and has come to the conclusion that: 

“the unit Is not functioning and that they hold some 
stocks of processed shrimps with certain cold 
storage would not prove the fact of their work- 
ing and on thp olher hand there was clear 
evidence available lo show that the unit has 
been closed and the whereabouts of the part- 
ners ‘were not known to the sponsoring authori- 
ties. Their expectation to revive the industry 
at a future date for utilisation of the import 
licences cannot he accepted. The Director of 
Fisheries had clearly reported that the firm 
have closed down. 

Having regard to what has been stated in the preced- 
ing paragraph, the undersigned Is satisfied that the 
licences In question should be cancelled or otherwise 
rendered Ineffective. Therefore the undersigned. In 
exercise of the powers vested in him under clause 0, 
sub-clause (cc) of the Imports (Control) Older 1955 
(as amended), herebv cancel the aforesaid licences Issu- 
ed in favour of M/s. Y. B. R. Industry, Kochangadl, 
Cochin-2 

[No. CHN. 17/71-72/Enf.] 
P. GOVINDA RAJU, 

Dy. Chief Controller of Imports & Exports. 
( 7?d TOd 'PlfiTT, TOTOd fddfd fiT fiTdfdd ) 

TOffiTO; fitdtd, 4 dJd, ‘972 


TOo 3247 , — dTOft TO?o dto dP'o d^iftd, 

fitdTTOft fiHtfi 2 T?r TTflTT fdfiffifi dffd % TOPTd 
TOdlfTO dddlfiTT VFff %ddtd fdiofofgTf TOTOfi dToHd 
TO ft ftfHTFTT -■ 

'idldi dfil 


1 . 

'ft/dd/ 25948 94 

9-7- 

-69 

5 29 3 

O 

2. 

•ft /Td /2S9‘*129 

14—10- 

-69 

10447 


3 

dl/TO/2595378 

1-1- 

-70 

6*99 


4 

'ft /TO / 2595697 

10- 3- 

-70 

3492 


5. 

f /dfi/ 2618800 

2 2-6- 

-70 

11167 

7% C 

6. 

dt/gd/2618962 

2 0- 8- 

-70 

llOaO 

7% 3 

7 

/TO/2 8 11193 

7-11- 

70 

1 1 500 



2 TO- TdTd TO fiT 

vd 3TOdt 

TOfdr 

da dt TO Qd- 

17 / 71 / 72/5 do fro*fi 

23-12-’ 

1 TO 


it d'ft 

</t 

df dt ffi 15 fsfii % dldT [fiRfi 

1 fiTirr 

ffi 3fi^r 

TOdt 


TO<t fJjTTT fir dTTOd dTO d TOT fiT dlfl dfffd 

qYr to? to whit t ffi tftto tosto fro ddTOd % 

CTOfiT %TT fir q qf 3d TO fifid l 

3 . Hfifi fiRfi ^(ddl % d r d jofil oqTTo 

-7^ 1 'dtfi 3 1 - 12- 1971 TOT M-3- 19 72 
find tot? q tfo ?njtf*?rreRt d TOffiTOfi w Jr % 
feTT vfr fifT TOT ( «ft fit O qfo dddfi fin fiT dFrf*fsr?TO 
fif-m d <wfMrcd ¥d § ftw $ i 

fitv{ «fV fiTfitfirT wftfFdTiiRr % TOFfTOd t 
fddd 5TTTOT I dtfi dTR TO d-ffr qf 7TT7 
qqT <TT ffi fiRfildl TO df? if TO TOT TOR tfi SRT fdccftTO 
dfTddT fdfiit % TOR df dd: 7TTO ft TsrrqfHT I TOfft TOTO fiS 
fiRTOdt % fiFW drT^fi if If 0 I fud 6l)‘il fiT ddfi TSIT 

f to to i TOfrornd % s -tit fi4 % TOftfdfsr * df 
TOtfiR fsfrqT to Ft fadtd fifTOrtdi % find ftidfTd 
TdfiT fiRTTORT 4R qr 1 Rfit frfir Ft Tut if dfr 
dd% TOdlTd fit fit fiT dfiTOT TOf d TO TO TOft TOdftfiT TO 
fitdd TOfT FfiTTfi % fiTTfi Ffifflfi TFfiT Tf dt ifN; FdfiffiF 
( df T fiit diftfir^ fifi firddr to T?[ fi I Fff *nw fit ftr 
r^TOf iro Ftiftfi diTiwr Ffifi^t to t tot fir pa id fit 
^d: fitfi dtp ^fiFfinr drcl ffilT firr % fif 

' TO fit fitfi fiTTTOfi TOT fit fTO «TT I 

4. fifitfTTTfiFl d d-rd fiRr^fid t^t ddt dtFd did 

TO fit I fitc TO fiFctTfi TO Tf TT % ffi : — 

TTPatd d d?t ?rt to r I fiti: fid fitefi 
FTltd d ddlffit fftfif fiT F3Tfi TOT fi< TddT p(Y 
fitf dfd d^F ffi ^ filfi TO T| f fiYc TO^ 
to difi fi'fd dtffi dr ffi ddfir firwTdT tot ft 
fidT dr fiit dfitdfi diRifiTfxfif fir to% 'drfirtro'r 

fir fidr-ddrdKjddft dr i ddd ddtfi % Fdtfifi'r 
% to dffi dm dfrofro ffidr dr Ffi fid tot ft 
^fit| i 

fifefiT Jr , fit TOlTfiT fifiT | FfT BfiTd d Pfct 
frr dfitfTOIfift WgZ % ffi fdfifiTfitd Tf Ffid 

TOt drif 1 it to fiTOdr to Jr fiddifror ffid diffir i 
TOffiT, fiTTOd (fddfid) filTO, 195 5 (ddT fifitffifi) 
fit atrr 9 fid-dror (tft tfr) % dddd dtd fifdfipcf fiT 

ddtd fidd Jtr dTOTOdTtddt ddddd dTTOdt fit fit TOdt 
TO^o fiT° fiK® fitdd^t, fitdtd— 2 fit fiT Ft Ifid 

5r, TO^nn df firro | 1 

[dfid # to to 17 / 71 - 72 /^fito] 

<fto iftfrom fiDj, 

dd TOd Fdddfi, dTTOd-fddfr 1 



Sec. 3(ii)j 


THE GAZETTE OF INDiA: OCTOBER 21, 19/2/ASViNA 29, 1894 


4561 


(Office of the Joint Chief Controller of 
Imports and Exports) 

(Central Licensing Area) 

ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 10th April, 1972 

S.O. 3248. — M/s. National Trading Co. Near Indust- 
rial Area, Bahadurgarh (Haryana) were granted import 
licence No. P/S/ 1615490, for Rs. 2,500 dated 4th 
November 1909 for import of permissible Natural 
Essential Oils for AM-70 licensing period. They have 
applied for issue of duplicate copy of Custom Purposes 
copy thereof on the ground that original copy has been 
lost/misplaced after having been registered with 
Bombay Customs authority. 

2. The applicant have filed an affidavit in support of 
their contention as required under para 613(2) ot I.T.C. 
Hand Book of Rules and procedure, 1970. I am satis- 
fied that the original custom purposes copy of the licence, 
In question, have been lost/misplaced. 

3. In exercise of the powers conferred on me undner 
Section 9(cc; Import (Control) Order, 1955 dated 7th 
December, 1955, 1 order the cancellation of custom pur- 
poses copy of licence No. P/S/101549G, dated 4lh 
November, 1969. 

4. The applicant is now being issued duplicate copy 
for Custom purposes copy of the licence in accordance 
with the provision of para 313(4) of I. T. C. Hand 
Book of Rules and procedure, 1970. 

[No. File NP/ 17(H) AM-70 AU-HH/CLA/7.] 
(fiffiT ffifi ffifififi, firfiTd-fTfifd fiT fiTfiffifi ) 

(fififtfi £3) 

sntsr 


fif ffifift, 10 SWT, 19 72 
Wf° 3 248. — fitfif tfififi |ftfi fio, ffifiT 

fifr-rr, (gfw j rr) fit fifitfi jrrfiffifi 

gfiffifi fift fi fiTfiFfi % fair 2,5 0 0/- fio fyfi fiT tr^r 
WRTRT fiT?#fifi5fiT : fit/ffi/l 615496, fcfiifi 4-11-69 
snrfir 70 % ftf ffifir fifir dr 1 

wfd Tfi fiT^fifi fif fiffiFfrfi ffifiTfiF fiffi fit fififfiffi 
firft fird % fart ?fi firaK tt fiffififi ffifir | % fir tfrqr- 

SJTfi ffifiTfit IT ffi RFfiTBj/fi STFRt^T^', fiFfif % ffiFfifi fiTFfi 
fi fiTT tt fif t/fiRFTfi«fi $T fit I I 

2. FTTfi fifi % fifififi fi fiTfififi fi fiTfiTfi SfiTTTT ffifififi 
ffififi fifiT fiffifiT, fr 5[fi, 1 970 fi 313(2) fi fifiT 
fitfiTfi F[fi TTTfiTfi fiT%T ffifir | I if RfiR | ffi ffififiT- 
sftfi fiRfifi fit fifi fitfiNpfi ffi-fiTdf fif'd r JT fit | /STffiFfiTfi 

fit | I 

3. fiTfiTfi (ffifififi) 5TF%7F, 1955 ffifitfi 7 fefil-fiT, 
1955 fiff RTTF 9 (fit if)) % fifipfd fififT fiffifirff fiT 
fifiTfi fiTfi ff fiF?#fifiWF : ft/fifi/ 1615496, 

4-1 1-69 fiff fiffiT^-fi ffifiTft fif'd fiT T^ fiTfi fiT 

IfiT 5 I 


4. fifi firfififi fit fiTfiFfi ofiffiTT fdfififi ffififi fifiF 
fiffifiT, ffiffi, 1970 fiffiF 313(4) fif fief? fi fi'jfin: 

TT^fifi Td filfiF^cT ffifirifr srRr fit fiTfTfr firft fit tt 
1 

[fikfiT ITfi fit/ 1 7 ( Ip T ) fififi- 7 O/fi^filTd/fiFtTfilT/ 7 ] 


New Delhi, the 30th May, 1672 

S.O, 3249. — M/s. Asavari Industries FB/36, Indus!- 
rial-cum-Housing Estate. Mathura Road, Faridabad were 
granted an import licence No. P/S/1694180/c/XX/38/ 
u/29-30, dated 6th April, 1971 for Rs. 8,553 for Import of 
(lj Lithium Flouride (2) Potassium Flouride, (3) 
btanpous Chloride, (4 j .Lithium Chloride, (5) Zmk 
Flouride, (6) Potassium Ferrocyanide, (7) Titanium 
Kutiie & (8) Nickel on G.C.A. They have applied for 
issue of duplicate Customs Purposes Copy of the said 
licence on the ground that the original Custom Pur- 
poses Copy thereof has been lost/misplaced without 
having been utilised at all. 

2. The applicant have filed an affidavit in support of 
above statement as required under para 318 ot I.T.C. 
Hand Book of Rules and Procedure, 1972-73. I am 
satisfied that the original Custom Purposes Copy of the 
said licence has been lost/misplaced, 

3 In exercise of the powers conferred on me under 
Section 9(ec) Import (Control) Order, 1955 dated ,7th 
December. 1955, I order the cancellation of the original 
Customs Purposes Copy of the licence No. P/S/1694180/ 
C/XX/38/D/29-30, dated 6th April, 1971, 

4. The applicant is now being issued a duplicate Cus- 
tom? Purposes Copy of this licence in accordance with 
the provisions of para 318(4) ot I.T.C. Hand Book of 
Rules and Procedure, 1972-73. 

[No P-9J./AM-70/AU-HH/CLA/462.] 

fifffifift, 30 fit, 1972 

trfio fifo 3249- — fit-fit fififiKt fifi ft/ 3 6, 

^Rf^fifi-fifi-fTfiffifi RTT, fi«JTT ft?, fitFTTfiTC fit 
filfiTfi 1 JIT ST 5 F ft (l) ffiffififi tfiW, ( 2 ) Tttffififi 
TfiTTF^fi, ( 3 ) ^fftfi TfitfiT??, ( 4 ) ffiffififi fifitTF^® - , 
( 5 ) f'fifi TfitfiT^T, ( 6 ) fit^ffififi fiftfiFfifil^y, ( 7 ) 
fdfiffififi FffiF ( 8 ) ffififi fi ?TFfiFcF fi ffitr 8, 5 5 3 /- 

fiTfi fir i 7 fi STTfiTfi fiT^fifi fi^fiT: Tt/dfi/ i 694 1 8 0 /*fF/ 

3 8/itf 29-30, fefiifi 6-4-71 fifiFfi ffifiT 
fifiT fiF I 'TF^fifi fit fi-jffift fiFfirfiffi- fifitfifi 

fiffi % ffitr ?fi fiFfiR TT filfififi ffifiT | ffi fififit JJH 
fitfiT?Jefi fifitfifi fiffi fir ffifiT fS fit fififtfi ffi(T £t fift 
fit t/fiTfiERfi ft fit I I 

2. TTfifiT fifiTfi % fifitfi fi fiTfififi % tntoffofifo 

ffi ffi, ffifilffiftr, 1 9 7 2- 1 9 7 3 fif fiftfiT 3 1 8 % fi-ctffi 
fifiT srtftrfi iTfi WfiT-fifi fiTfe-fi- ffifiT I I ^ ^ ffi 

Tfifi fiTTfifi fit fifi fiffiFfiTfi fifitfifi fiffi fit fit | / WffirfiTfi 

$ ^ 1 1 

3 . fiffiFfi (ffifififi) fiTt?r, 1 9 5 5 , ffifitfi 7 - 12-1955 
fit STITT 9 (tft tft) % Sfifififi fit ffiT fififi fiffifiTtf fiT 
fififfi fiT if NT?#fi fiW : tf/Ftfi / 1 6 9 4 1 8 0 /fif/iJ fiH i[fid / 



4562 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVlNA 29, 1894 [Part ll— 


38/«t/29-30, fEETE 6 - 4-1971 spY JJR ’Tt -HT JJ'7 TT 

refer srRr Et t? etr et w ttt g i 

4. ET^EE E~T mf° ffto Efo, fRJE, fETrfaftr, 
1972-73 EpEET 318(4) ET 3EETETET E 4FJETT 
W HT^ER 4 ft E-jfffT RtBTTpE REFER RfR RE ETTt Et 

et | 1 

[RSET 'ft-91/ir<Tir-70/lT^-iT^(T^/fftn;^n;y , 462] 

New Delhi, the 13 th June, 1972. 

S.O. 3250. — M/s. A, Paul Instruments Co., Ward No. 
3, Jind (Haryana) were granted an import licence No. 
P/S/ 1 729064 /C/XX/41 /D/33-34, dated 18th December, 
1971 for Rs. 5,000 for import of soft capillary tubing 
and ceramic colours from G.C.A. They have applied 
for issue of duplicate exchange control purposes copy 
only of the said licence on the ground that the origmaL 
exchange control purposes copy thereof has been lost/ 
misplaced without having been utilised at all. 

2. The applicant have filed an affidavit in support of 
the above statement, as required under para 318 of 
Import Trade Control Hand Book of Rules and Proce- 
dure 1972-73. 1 am satisfied that the original exchange 
control purposes copy of the said licence has been lost/ 
misplaced. 

3. In exercise of the powers conferred on me under 
Section 9(cc) of Import Control Order, 1955 dated 7th 
December, 1965, I order the cancellation of the original 
exchange control purposes copy of licence No. P/S/ 
1729064/ C/XX/41/D/ 33-34. dated 18th December. 1971. 

4. The applicant is now being Issued duplicate exchan- 
ge control Purposes copy of the licence In accordance 
with the provision of para 318(4) of the I.T.C. Hand 
Book of Rules & Procedure 1972-73. 

LNo. File P/ A-18(N)/ AM-72/ AU-IIH/CLA/ 1047.] 

D. S- MORKRIMA, 

Dy. Chief Controller of Imports & Exports. 
for Jl. Chief Controller of Imports & Exports. 

dt forEt, 13 HE, 197 2 

4ft 0 3250. — rr 0 ITT Erf 

d° 3, off? (/if HI PUT) ET EPTHE ERT Ert R 
EPEE EfEHff EEfEE rK fd/fdT tiff % THEIR 
% fftr 5,0 00 did tJjRT ET HE ETETR HT^HE 
d'OTT : ET/hR/l 72906 4/Et/fEH q;W/41/ff/ 3 3-34 
fddtd 18-12-71 ERIE fEET RET ET I d?|fd RET HT^dd 
Et E3T fdfddd fEERTH dfd ET HHE ETE % fRiT 

?E ETUIT TT ETEEE fEET | fE EH HIT fdfddd fREETH 
Tfd fdvf d HEHTH f=pd fddT df dt | / THETRRH |T df | | 

2. H<THEH EHR E EHER H THERE R TRETR 3ETETT 
fdddPd fddd RET fEdrfdfsi, |ddd, 1972-73 E HEr 
31 8 H HHT ddftfd RE REE TH ETfETH fEdl | | R R?gc£ 
g fE HER dT^dd Et TjH dS[ fdfddd fdd^Ed dfd RT df 
| / EFETEFH |t df | I 

3. TRETR fddddd TREE, 195 5 fddtE 17-12-1955 
E *5^9 (ft Rt) E ?RcP£H RETT dfRElft ET REtR ERR 

ft HT^RR OT dr/t[d/l729064/?ff/ddd t^d/ 41/ 
ft / 3 3-34, fddtE 18-12—71 El HR RET fdfddd fdd-dd 
RfR El ETE ET ERR fdT g I 


4. EH hReE Et TRETR 3dTTTT fHEETH fddd RET 
dfETlfFdE, 197 2— 73%’tfT 318(4) E> deft % dddrd 
RISER Et RET fdfddd fEERTH dfd Et d|fdfd dTff d^f 
ET d^t | I 

[dddl dt/TT/ 18 (dd)/d itr_ 72 /tr d-dR iTR/ifl URn/ 10 4 ] 

ffo ITRo RfdEtdT, 

dd-ddd fdTdTE, dTdld-fddTd, 
Ed RddT fdd-dE, RTdrd-fddid 


(Office of tile Chief Controller of 
Imports and Exports) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 31st May, 1972 

S.O. 3251.— M/s. Hindustan Tin Works (P) Ltd., 
Ghnziabad were granted an import licence No. P/C/ 
20506 1 8/H/KQ/ 31 /H/ 25-26/ Sp. Cell, dated 26th June, 
1969 for Rs. 1,03,000 (Ruppes One Lakh & Three Thous- 
and only) under 5th Kipping Loan. Since the 5th Kip- 
ping Loan has expired they could not make use of this 
licence. They have surrendered the licence for cancel- 
lation and in lieu thereof a new licence has been issued 
to them under 7th Kipping Loan. 

I am accordingly satisfied that the original Customs 
Purposes and Exchange Control Purposes copy of the 
said licence has been surrendered. Therefore, in exer- 
cise of the powers conferred under Sub-Clause 9(cc) of 
the Imports (Control) Order. 1955 dated 7th December, 
1955 as amended the said original Customs Purposes/ 
Exchange Control Purposes copy of licence No. P/C/ 
2050618, dated 26th June, 1969 Issued to M/s. Hindustan 
Tin Works (P) Ltd, Ghaziabad is hereby cancelled. 

[No. F. SPCL/327/KL5/67.68.] 
S. R. MINOCHA, 

Joint Chief Controller of Imports & Exports. 

(R3T fRETE, RTERT-fETfa El ERT'tRR ) 

RlfH 

RffrcSTf, 31 Rf, 197 2 

tJRotfto 3251 .-r4rT f??JFTTE ffR ETR (El°) fRo 
Riff a 1 41 El 5ft EtfER RTE % R r cpfRl,03, 000 (tJE 
H8I eftt IRTT RTR RTR) f ff^ r;E TTRTRTHT^R Ro 
' ff/?ff/2050618/[TR/f EI/31/<TH/25. 26/'PTRH fR, 
fgRTE 26-6-69 TTTR fERT RET RT I A[fE SET EfffR 
RTT RRT |T RET %, E|fR ?R Rl^RR ET RTEtR E^f fEET 
| I WiTjf ET^EE E> Tf ERR % fRCr RRy EE fEET f 
ERE EE% Jr 7Ef EffER RET E RRRE EE RET RT^ER ETff 
fEET RET ^ I 

REERTE, ff ^ fE RET Rl^RR fT RR RfRT lTjRE 

EEfRR EfR RET R?T fEfRRE fREER EETRR EfR RRT ET 
fl Ef f I ^RfrtE, EE1 RET fER, RTETR (fRETRR) WEE, 

195 5, fERTE 7-12-55 Ef RTErCT 9 (ffRf) % ERpf R 
EER RfRERf ET ETTR ET RTRl f|-|TRTR ftR EER (ETo ) 




Sec:. 3(ii>] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21. 1972/ASVTNA 2'», 1894 


4563 


pT°, Nlf ITVTTN R NTN R NTR FfffiNh Ui^RR RoRT/NT/ 
20 5 06 18, FtNPN 26-6-69 RF NN NETT (?FN STTRT/ 
^JJTT FnFnNT FtN^T N tFJ Rr n'T^TFT FNTT NTHT | ! 

[wmT TRsrerRH/32 7/R ^T-5/67. 68] 
’-TCPT FNNrNT, 

NTTTN^TfNTwTF, 7TrTTN-FNTTN I 

O N> 7 


(Office of tlie Chief Controller of 
Imports and Exports) 

ORDER 

New Delhi . the 20t/i June. 1972- 

S.O. 3252. — M/s. The National Institute of Sports, 
Patiala wore granted an ImpoTt licence No. G/AU/ 
1040079, dated 5 ( -h Novemberr, 1969 for Rs. 12.016 
(Rupees Twelve Thousand and Sisteen only). They 
have applied for the issue of a duppllcate Customs 
purpose copy of the said licence on the ground that the 
original Customs purpose copy has been lost/mispla- 
ced. It is further stated that the original Customs 
Purpose copy was registered with the Customs authori- 
ties at Calcutta and utilised partly. It was utilised for 
Rs. 3.247 and the balance available on it was Rs. 8,769. 

2. In support of this contention, the applicant has 
filed an affidavit on a stamped paper. I am accordingly 
satisfied that the original Customs Purposes copy of the 
said licence has been lost. Therefore, "in exercise of 
the power conferred under Sub-clause 9(cc) of the Im- 
ports (Control) Order 1955 dated 7th December, 1955 as 
amended, the said original Customs purposes copy of 
licence No. G/AU/ 104(1079, dated 5th November. 1969 
issued to M/s. The National Institute of Sports, Patiala 
is hereby cancelled. 

3. A duplicate Customs purposes copy of the said 
licence is being Issued separately to the licensee. 

[No. N-39/Inst/69-70/lLS/.l 
M, G. GOMBAR. 

Deputy Chief Controller of Imports & Exports. 

( TST fTT^TF, RlffiT f’TTPT TN N1 Rtt) 

511%?! 

NffT'RT, 2 0 NN r 19 7 2 

rrrr 1 3252 . — ttRRF Ft Rent t^Rtth 14797 

^TiRn. TfcffiUT Til 12016 NTT (TTNT NTT 7 " RtUpf 
T/Tt NTT) 37 Fn^ pt,' NT^TT R’ Rt/N N j 1040079 
fffiltffi 5-1 1-1 969 NUN fdffil NTT 41 I INfrN NPT 

mi:T T Rf RrNT tTTffi FffiTffiRr nFn Rr NTFtFt NTTF 

spur R faffi ?N NT NTTTN fP'TT & fp JJH 

ffmr HT-f fffiPPT> ITf T UT Nf / NT PUN I I ffi£ R I 
JR7 4) NPHTT FEN! NTT t fp NH N-N FrETTl tFt TROT 

i RsR? inFa’PTTr NvTNvrr R tR^n tutR Ni n> Ru hntn 
srHm-RfTPi Fntt ntt Nr i ntnt nttpt 3247 n° 
% f T«T NT Ft IT NTT NT RFf NT TT TT UN NT NT UFN 
8769 No Nt 1 

2. ?T TE R TN-TT R NTNNfT R TRT 1 PINT T« r ?;<TN 
oi~r ?RRn FlTTT | I cKTTTT R RPjer j ffT TIT Nf^TN 


T4 R N RETT NR7 RrtRI NfN Rr nR I I TFT: NNT RnIFtt 
WTT rf (FnNUTN) STtRn, 1 955 FffiTPN 7-1 2-1 955 RT 

rtstrt 9 (Rr RT) % spnRn nth- TriwRf nt ntTn nnR 
ffT nRRT RnNU fRRFNTN tut PTRRr, TfTNPTl Rt NRt 
fEPffiTan-^TRRo RR/RT/ 104007 9 fffiTTP 5- 11-1969 
eR TNT ffi T RlRT fRprR' tFt RTTTrU T? 3nTR I I 

3 ur^RffijTTr Rr ttt nt^RR pR Rrirr u'e tFR Rr 

■j 

sttFuIR 5RN R nttR Rr tt R i 

[wit tTT-3 9/gfR3TT/69-70/?nf Ror 

tTffo Rfci Rlcffir, 

NT 7TGT FdT'T 5. TrrTTT-f'TTfT I 

o 


(Office of the By Chief Controller of 
Imports and Exports) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 1st August 1972 

S.O. 3253. — Mr. Kudige Bharamaiahgowdu Tulsidas was 
granted Custom Clearance Permit No. P/J/3039683/N/ 
MP/43/H/35-36., dated 0th April, 1972 lor Rs. 15,000 
for import of a Chevrolet 1969 Model Car has applied 
for a duplicate copy of the Custom Clearance Permit as 
the original Customs Clearance Permit has been lost. 
It is further stated that the original Custom Clearance 
Permit was not registered with any Custom 'House and 
not utilised. 

In support of t'his contention Shri K. B. Tulsidas has 
filed an affidavit. He has undertaken to return the 
Custom Clearance Permit if traced later to this office 
for record. I am satisfied that the original Custom 
Clearance Permit No. P/J73fi396'83/N/M/43/H/35-36, 
Haled 6th April, 1972, has been lost and direct that a 
duplicate Custom Clearance Permit should be issued to 
him. The original Custom Clearance Permit may be 
treated as cancelled. 

| No. File 2(B-381 1/71-72 /BLS/ 2151 .] 
(Sd.'i Illegible, 

Dy. Chief Controller of Imports & Exports. 

( Am Frirtp, mmA-fmn ti ttRRR) 

srrRu 

Rr fc-FF 1 tttt, 19 7 2 

trffo Rr° 3253 -RR f Ftt r Rr m yvfmA Rr 

TT4T f mmz 196 9 BTNH TT7 R TTPUT R vm 1 5000 ^ 

JPST Jf,r mp RTRT fdTTRF tRRt R O Tr/R 303 968 3/ 

TTR/n^r Rty 43/PN/35-36 FTdtT 6-4-72 3TTTT fR-Tr NTT 

NT i n^tR Rmr FttnRi t Ret Rr tttFnFt R f-pr 

NT titnp m wtnRn fmr t f^r n t RRrr FontnI 

TTfNT RF NTT ^ I TB 'Rr N7NN f-FTT NTT I fN NN NTTT 

n-t FrtnRi tRRc fpRr RrNr/fTTTffiiRpPTRTNRfM oRr 

TiTTTT NTT NT RlT NffiNI ‘3NTTN dRf fTNT NTT NT I 

NR nR R nnRn R Rr Ro Ru ^rfruN R rrp utn 

TN NTfRu fpTr R I TfiRR -TfT NNN fTNT R Ft NFt rFEt 

N?N fdNirRr ttIRn ttn R Fnn nnt Rr nR Ft uR R ru^ 



4 5 64 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVTNA 29, 1894 


[Pabt 11— 


T[*T ddUHT U HRT FdTT HTtnTT I Tt ^3^ ^ ftp tjf 
UrF fdddTTT 'FfffiT Ro t ft/d/ 3039683 /dd/iT;fTo-fW 43 / 
TT^r / 35-36 fTHTT' 6-4-72 ’j't <RT | dfk fd^dl TT‘ % fr 
UR# Rd/Rfd RddR RpFT d?t RtF|C[ | UR ifTUl 
fdddRt Rdfur Tf fdTdT RdT RUSH URr 1 

[TPsUT : 2 (dT-38l)/71-72/:fT dR ttjt/2151] 

(^o) TFTR, 
RT Fr s 4 HETT, HT 'TrR-fdUTT I 


(Office of the Deputy Chief Controller of Imports 
and Exports) 

ORDER 

Bangalore, the 10 th July 1972 

Subject : —-Cancellation of Customs Purposes Copy of 
licence No. P/S/167G838/R/MT/41/X/33-34. 
dt. 17-12-71 for Rs. 14,309. 

S.O. 3254. — M/s. Mahatma Gandhi Perfumery 
Works, No. C. 127, Nagarathpet, Bangalore-2, were 
granted import licence No. P/S/167838/R/ML./41/X/ 
83-34: dt. 17-12-71 for Its. 14,309 for import of Aromatic 
Chemicals, Natural Essential Oils and Resinoids. They 
have now applied for duplicate copy of Customs Pur- 
poses Con-y oi the above licence on the ground that 
the Original of the above Customs Purposeg Copy 
of the licence has been lost without having been regis- 
tered with any Customs Authorities and not utilised 
at all and that the duplicate copy of Customs Purposes 
Copy of the above licence now required is for the: 
full value of licence Rs. 14,309. 

Ip support of the above contention the applicant 
has filed an affidavit. I am satisfied that the original 
Customs Purposes Copy of the above licence has been 
lost and direct that a duplicate copy of the Customs 
Purposes Copy of the above licence should be issued 
to the applicant. The Original Customs Purposes 
Copy of the above licence is hereby cancelled. 

[No. ITC/SSI/A.251/A.M.72/P1 
K. JAYARAMAN, 

By. Chief Controller of Imports & Exports. 

(YT-djUR UFUd-Fdtr'rd dd dddTRd) 

sfTTTr, 10 Rurf 1972 

f«TTT 1 4 3 0 9 To Rdd % HT?RR R° q^/nr^f/ 1676838/ 
RF/dU trq/ 4l/rRR/33- 34 FddiR 17-12-71 

d>V fn °t> i At Rfd diT v? cf, v p i i 

^ \ 

Bifo kilo 3254 . — RTuT R.TFUT RtsfV Tv-rp^nTj- 
ddR , R° Rt.12 7, dUTdRTd, RdR"k-2 Rt ^(JR 
TidiTPnff, dutr Jruf uk TfirdrsfVT % snurd % 

fqrr 14,309 R°RyU % FdR RU Hid Id HIYRR R° 44/ 
ITR/ 1 6768 38/m 7 : / irtf t[T/ 41 / rrw/ 33-34 fddtu 
1 7-12-7 1 RRR fpTT RTF df | TFT TRET Rlfdd HURT 
fdddRt afd dft URfafT % fuR ^R HTOK TT 
UTRTR fdUT £ fu RH RtRIReR fdddRt HfR fdFRT UT RtUlRdR 


HrFJTdFT % TTfriM rrr fadT srV Fr?jr uqutu Ftf 74 
FddF TFT df t Rk Rg Fdf HR RTTTd Rl^dR RF RTTnT/Y 
rFt u[ r^FtFt # HTUFRUTr urf lu % r~r 
14,309 To % fuR % | 

RTfdd dT % RR4d R HT^ddF R RR tttT^T TR TTfTTT 

FudF I I ?T Rd/R f % RTdd dfT UR UTunPHT 

fdRRRt tFt rT u£ | uk Pt^jt STtf ^ Pf tfT 
’ttPt'Pt ^rrfT ttT tptT qrfffir i hiy^’t tT rt 

fdwrfr trfd rrddTrrr r ^ ^ Yrfr Z i 
[tttt ?rr^ tT RT/^fT itr Trrf /3. 2 5 1 7 2/fr] 

dd fnrd, 

^T TTT PPTTE, mTTd-fdTfd I 

o 

MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND REHABILITATION 
(Department of Labour & Employment) 

New Delhi, the 1st August 1972 

S.O. 3255 — ’ Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to (he establishment known as 
Messrs Electric Construction and Equipment Com- 
pany Ltd. Soncpat have agreed that the provi- 
sions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 19521, should be made 
applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, Therefore, in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, 
the Ceniral Government hereby applies the provisions 
cf the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of March, 1970, 

[No. 8/222/70-PF.II.] 
TPT dlV yTdPf RTFFT 

( HU Utr TtW T frUFF ) 
df fedsff, 1 UTrd, 7 2 
3U° 32 55. — Td: dT-flU U^TTT dT Upf tpfpT 

pferr f; fdi Udrf ddd^ud ft tuftT, 

fufuzd, uTdTTU dPPg I'UTTd' Jr URT5 fdUlddr uTt 
at-rddrP^ ut difWTT TddTd UffUd i\ ^ fd: tu- 
qrfT ufr r -T fdfj uV fEIU THU fdfer ufdfddU, 19 5 2 
( 1 9 5 2 TT 19 ) % YTTT Tdd ^ HPj; fd^ 

I 

Ud:, Ud, YTd urdFdtTd El tTm 1 Hdl UEJm 
(4) TPd TTrT Trfdfpff dd srdTd |rr %^>f rt- 
dd^ Udd uFerrddU % TTTEr YET TUrdd - WA iffTTr’l 
HTd drufT | I 

Ud uFT^ddT 1970 T U1U % TUT fdd d?T TfH 
|f UUUT HTrdfT | 


[do 8/ 2 2 2/70— r fTo ddio 2] 



&F-C. 3 (!i)l THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: 


S.O. 3256. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of ,h. 
employees in relation to the establishment known ;.s 
Messrs Babson and Company Hirji Govindji Esta e 
Thakarsey Jivaji Road, Sweri, Bombay-15 have agreed 
that the provisions gl die Employees' Provident Funds 
and Family Pension Fund Act, 11)52 (111 () f 1952) 

should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of ihe said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment; 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty-first day of December, 1970. 

[No. S 35018 (461/72-PF.IL] 

<ffT° Wo 3256 — dd: dTdF dl d?/ drltd 

ftdT | fd d Id dTddd rry dPpfT ffedl d'tfdTdt rrfe?; 
SsfrvRufl-THirm 1 5 dTdd ddldd d 

fddfedf did dddlfedl d"T dfT'STT ^d did dT dfdd 
fTd§ I fd dddife dffed fdfa dfe ddd fdfa 
■trfarfddd 1952 (1952 dr 19 ) % otto tft Fdidd 
dl dTdffer did wfed ; 

m: d*r, ttt dfafadd dT Errn 1 dr ttoft ( 4) 

gRTT ddd dfeddf dT dffe dTd |T dferi dTdF- ddd 
■dfafadd d ddfer WTdr'Tdd’t Tf^rTTdTddpfrti 

d? dfa>JddT 197 0 dir fedc^F * ? PfTtTf fad dir 
d^tf ft ddsft drertft I 

[iio i^To 3 5 0 1 8 ( 4o)/7.> TV itir-2] 

S.O. 3257.— Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Suman Export Corporation, 61-Sundcr Nagar, 
New Delhi including its Branch at World Trade Cen- 
tre, 9th Floor, 13/B-l, Ezra Street, Calcutta have 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), should be made applicable to the said establish- 
ment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come 
into force on the first day of July, 1971. 

[No. S, 35019 (75)/72-PF.II(i).] 

dT ■ W« 3 2 5 7— dd: d^ffe *FdTT dl dd dfld fT-TT 
£ fd ddd^dd rrqddfe ddfddd 61 -tfd^ dtp - , df 
fedft ddl ^dd) - Tfrar d~? fr fedT dfeT dfdd 1 3/dT- 
^dpTTjfe dddTTT dTdd f'dldd d d^d-T fddldd dfe 
dddlffef dl dgd'idT d’T did d^ dddd dT tfe t fd 
dddfeT •q-f^rTT-q- fafa dfe quid fdfadfdfddd 

1 95 2 ( 1 9 5 2 dd 19) % Tid'd did *dT‘Td dl did 

fefe did dlfed , 

dr: dd, ddd dfdfddd dt arn 1 dr wr 

(4) sru ddd mfdddi tt ddfe dTd gnr %;fed drdrr 


OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVfNA 29, 1894 456 J. 


ddd dfdfddd % dddd ddd ddTTd d> rr^^fTl dTd 

dfeT % 1 

dddftEJddT 1971 dT ddfe d ddd fed dt dfd 
ft dddV dT rift I 

[do TTd-35019 ( 75)/72-d) TTcr 2 (j)] 

E.O. 3258. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Assam Tea Brokers (Private) Limited, G. N. 
Bardoloi Road, Gauhati-3 have agreed that the'provi- 
sions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made 
applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirtieth day of June, 1972. 

[No. S. 35019 (68 )/72-PF.II(i).j 

dTo Wo 3 2 58 — dd: dfefd dTdTT dt d? ddtd did 
| fd ddfe dTdTd dT Wtdd ( differ ) fdfddd, fefo tTrf 0 

drfetdT^ fid, dferdt -3 drdd d fHd?d fddferd 

•%\T dddTfTdf dV d|d?9dr ^d dTd dd d^dd d^ | fd 

dddfet dfdcd fdftr dd*d ^'dd fdfsr dftrfddd, 1952 

( 195 2 dT 19) % dddd ddd Pdldd d> dTd fdtt dTd 
; 

dd:, dd, ddd dfdfddd dt dTTT 1 dt dddRT ( 4 ) 
JTd Rdd dfeddf dt ddfd dTd |d dfeld dTdTT ddd 
dfdfddd d d'Tdd ddd TdTdd d'T dddJTM dPJ dddT | | 

dd dfd^dOT 1972 dd dh d 3 Od fed d‘t ddd 
ft ddSTt dffTd't 1 

[tlo dR-350 l9( 68)/72-dt E;d2j 

S.O, 3259. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the first proviso to section 6 of the Employees' Provi- 
dent Ponds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), the Central Government, after making neces- 
sary enquiry into the matter, hereby specifies with 
effect from, the 30th June, 1972, the establishment 
known as Messrs Assam Tea Brokers (Private) Limi- 
ted, G. N. Bardoloi Road, Gauhati-3, for the purposes 
of the said proviso. 

[No. S. 35019(68)/72-PF.II(ii).] 

dT° dT° 3 25 9 . — Tfefe dTdp- dddfeT dfdtd fdfa 
dTT fd-d ddd fdfa dfjfddd, 1952 (l952 dT 19) 
dT UTTl 6 % ddd dd3d dlTT ddd dfeddt dT ddJd 
qprk |rr feqd if dldldd did dTd % T^dT^ 

3 o 1 9 7 2, d ^dd dTdid €\ dtdd (dr^dT ) fdfdds, 

^fr° ndt> dlfeldfe Ttd, differ- 3 dTdd TdTdd dt 
t’d^ddT H4d ^Gdd dT dd'^d' d fed fefefed: dfet I I 

[do TTd-350'9 ( 6 3 ) / 7 2— fe o fido 2 ( ii ) ] 



[Part II— 


4566 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASV1NA 29, 1894 


S.O. 3260, — Whereas it appears to the Centarl Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees In relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Bbandara Zilla Sahakari Kharcdi Vikri Sangh 
Limited, Bhandara, including its branches at Sakoli 
and Gondia, have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1P52 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (41 of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirtieth day of June, 1970. 

[No, S. 35018 (41 1/72-PF.IL] 

XTo wTo 3260 — XT: fafax TOt fat XT xfax faXT 
| fa faxm ffarr Rxxxrr ’fafa fxfa fax fRfxfa 
RTTTT, TlXTi TXTXR, faRR Rfafa far X.faXT R TRfa 
ET’a'FT Rffaffa if R RFXRf ffafap fafa TfaTlfafa fa 
T^RW ?T TIT X T RfaRT fa x£ i fa xfaXTTt RffaxfRffa 

fafa xrr fxFar RfafxxR ,1952 ( 1 9 5 2 xt r 1 9 ) % 

TXT X TXT FTTXR fa fan, wfa TTffa ; 

XT:, XT, TXT xFxfRXR fa SRH 1 fa TTErPT (4) 
SET XTfT faxTX'f XT XXfa XRT fif fafax RTXTT TX^ 
.fkfRXX % TTXR TXT RTITT fa faTTXm RFJ Xmft | | 

X§ xffarfTRr 1 9 7 0 fa ^R % tFRX ffa fa X’fT ^ 
RRfa Tfafa I 

[RorrRo 35018(4l)/ 7 2 -fa TXi 2] 

S.O. 3261. — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
lent that the employer and the majority of the em- 
loyees in relation to the establishment known as 
Iessrs Narang Group, 101/102, Akash Deep Building, 
arakhamba Road, New Delhi, have agreed that the 
iovisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and 
amily Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be 
iade applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
y sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
entral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
jld Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
iree on the first day of December, 1971, 

[No. S. 35019(76)/72-PF.II(i).] 

«PT ° XT 0 3 2 61 — RT: fafax RTXRT fa XT XTfa faXT 
; fat RTT RfTR RX, 101/10 2, XTXXR fax faffax, XTH- 
tXT fir, R# fawfiT RTRT rTPTR R XRRT faRfafT fafa xfa- 
jfaxf fa Tf RW XR TIT XT RKRR fa X$ & fa XIRTTfa 
(fax fa-fa T TjRiT X XTR fafa XffafRXX, 19 5 2 ( 1 9 5 2 
X 1 9) % TXRR TXT rXTXR XT RTX fafa RtR RTfax ; 

XR:, XT, TXT TffaRTR fa STIR I fa TTRTTT ( 4) 
ITT XTT RfXTXf XT xfax xmT ru %rfax RTXRT TXT 
.fafaRX % TWJ TXT rXIRR fa XTRJPT RTX XXfa | I 


XX TfaflTbr 1 9 7 1 % faRTRT, xrr ffa fa xxx 
RRlff TTfifa I 

[Ro ttr_35qi 9(76)/ 72-faqfao 2(i)] 

S.O. 3262.. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
first proviso to section 6 of the Employees’ Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
the Central Government, after making necessary en- 
quiry into the matter, hereby specifies with effect from 
the 1st December, 1971, the establishment known as 
Messrs Narang Group, 101/102 Akash Deep iBullding, 
Barakhamba Road New Delhi, for the purposes of the 
said proviso. 

[No. S, 35019(76)/72-PF.II(ii).] 

TTo RTo 32 62 — fariT RTXTT, RXTPT Rfx^R fRlfa 
?ffa Rfa,; fafa XffafaRR, 1952 ( 1 9 5 2 XT 19) 

X?r RPT 6 % XXR XfaTXi iJRT XTfT TfxTXt XTf XRfa XfTfT 
ftr, RTiJ faRR R RTTXRXi TtR % XkRTT 1 faRtRT, 19 7 1 
R RRR RiTR XT, 101/102 RTXT VT T>X fafalTR, TTfafaTT 
RiT, Rf faXR>, RrRP WfXR XTl RTJS'RT TXT TTfafa % 
X'XTTTf % fafR fafafasR Xifal £ I 

[Ro X'R-3 50 1 9 ( 7 6)/7 2-Xlo XTJo 2 ( ii) ] 

S.O. 3263.— Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Packaging Products, 95/1, Cossipore Road, Cal- 
cu'ta-2 including its office at No. 6. Chowringhee Road, 
Calcutta-13 have agreed that the provisions of the Em- 
ployees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund’Act, 
1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said 
establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to th e said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come Into 
force on the thirty first day of December, i960, 

[No, S-35017./37/72/PF-II(i).] 

XRo XRo 3 2 63. — XT: %fafa RZXT7 far X? XTiT 
XlTT t fa RTT 'tfafkT XfSXXT, 9 5/1, XTX'rjf faT, 
XrRXTRr-2, fTRX Ra 6 R>fa> XlRFR -l 3, Xt[ TTTfRT 
RfaffaT | RTRXi RXrXR R RES-fafaRXi far Xlfarfafa 
far Rffaxr XT XTT XT RXRT ft Rf t fa Xifafa Rfa^X 
fafa far Xv^T ?TT fxfa RfarTTR, 195 2 ( 1952 XT 
19) % TTXTR TXT rXRR fa Rfa fxfa TTR Rif?'! ; 

XT:, XX, TWfafaRTR fa RTTr 1 fa TTSETT (4) 
3 m XXR xfXTX't XT XXIX Xfa |T fafaf RTXXT TXT 

xfjfaxR % txx?j Txxrxrxxfa x=[xa'rrT xrrx xrrfa % i 
x^ xfa^xxr 19 69 % faxFxr, % xxjfa? far fa 

XXT |f RXfa RTTfa I 

[faxr frR - 3 5 0 1 7 ( 3 7) f 72 Xl-a-xrr-2(i)j 

S.O. 3264. — -In exercise of the powers conferred by 
first proviso to section 6 of the Employees’ Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
the Central Government, after making necessary en- 
quiry into the matter, hereby specifies with effect from 



S5c. 3 (ii ) ] 


4567 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


the 31st December, 1969, the establishment known as 
Messrs Packaging Products, 95/1 Cossipore Road. Cal- 
cutta-2 including its office at 6, Chowringhee Road, Cal- 
cutta-13, tor the purposes of the said proviso 1 . 

[No. S-35017/37/72/PF-II(ii).] 

44° 41° 32 6 4. — %-Sk 717447 444171 414^4 FfiFsi 
sfk 4F44 444 FtFeI 4F4F444, 1952 ( 1 9 5 2 44 19) 

44 4T7T 6 % 444 TTRJT 5171 4?tT 5114447 44 4114 4FI 
|(T, RTF f4T4 Jr 4145441 3fr4 41 71 % 15 411 31 f?RT47, 
19 69 % 1%f?iPl 474474, 9 5/1, TW 457 fn?, 4474411-2 
fsifrJr 46 11711 715, 4FFE4T-13 Fl41 1744 444fl4 
Rfwrfer I, 11441 74117 4?1 447 777311 % 

447477 % prT(T flFlflFl 4Fl7 | | 

[TS7T l^TT- 35017(37)/ 7 2-f'ro .7E-2(ii)] 


47° 41° 3 2 6 6 . — Tel: %??74 47447 74 4| ^TcfTcT flcIT | 
F=E 414 777 f irFriFll 447 , 1 7, 4(4141 4T4 71T7 l7?, 
4H4F1T-3 6 71441 44177 71 7145 f44l3141 417 HlllFlli 
# 4|4®TT ^4 414 4|44 ?> if | Fn 4144171 iFl^T 
FtFt 417 ERI 444 FlFl 41=4444, 1952 (195244 19) 
% 4444 444 74144 411 414 F-EiT 3T7 TlFfR 

44; 44, 444 iFlFfll 44 4171 1 14 444171 

(4) 4171 444 iFlIli 44 44>! 4H7)" fT%f?>l 47447 
444 4"FjF744 %" 4T44 444 7=4117 411 7751171 414 
41744 | I 

nFl^FlIl 19 70 4?! F?1f 47, % % F4W4 F<57 44 
444 |f 44lT 44741 I 


S.O. 3265. — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of th e em - 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
the Messrs Bombay Finance Company, Dhan Nur, 16 
Sir P. Mehta Road. Bombay-1 have agreed that the pro- 
visions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made 
applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
Joy sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty-first day of October, 1971. 

I No. S-35018(32)/72/PF.II.] 

44° TTTo 32 6 5. — 44: 413 14 47447 4?1 4^ 57713 jfl3T f> 
F41 444 41*4 4454F4 4*771, 417 47, ; 6 4* l(o4|31 

7t4, 4*lf- 1, 7T441 74117 4 4-TT PuFFE Slfc TUTHFllli 
4?T IgTRsH ^4 4T3 47 4^44 f 1 if | Fl 444171 iFl^T" 
Fiftl 4T7 4U*4 4514 Flftl iflFlFll, 1952 ( 1 952 4T 
19) % 474=4 444 74144" 4> 111 Fin* Tiff*; 

44 :, 44 , 444 4 "F 4 Fl 44 4 f 4171 1 4 ?t 444171 ( 4 ) 
TFT tTtT 5 ifx 441 41 4414 474 f* %?514 717417 444 
tlf 4 Fl 41 4 444=4 444 74144 47 (*335171 FT 4 4741 1 I 

If 4 "F 4 (j( 47 ! 1971 % 444717 , 4 ? 44 l 714 F ?7 

47 444 p 7T4ffV 41^41 I 

[71441 q;71-35018(32)/72-4!o irqf; 0 2 ] 

S.O. 3266. — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Ratan Engineering Works, 17, Gopal Lai Tagore 
Road, Calcutta-36 have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the 
said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
jsaid Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirtyflrst day of December. 1970. 

LNo. S-35017/38/72/PF-IL] 


[4° 1*4-35017 ( 38)/7 2-l7»iTTo 2 )] 


S.O. 3267.— Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em- 
ployees in relation to the establishment" known as 
the Messrs Devendra Exports (Private) Limited. G.I., 
Industrial Estate, Ambattur, Madras-58 have agreed that 
the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act. 1952 (19 of 1952), should be 
made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have comejnto 
force on the first day of August. 1971. 

[No. S. 35019(114)/71-PF.II(i).] 

4T° HU 3267. — 44: 47447 4t If 

4414 fT4T | f4 444 74? (*4171771 (4T?4?) FtlFlTI, 
47- 1 FJ 4 F 744 4777, 4F4T3T, 44171-5 8 4T44 74177 

4 7F45 FtIRH 4ft TTTIlfTlf # IfTlTIT 571 4T4 
47 7if44 ft if | fl 4T44F7 4^44 FlFl 477 f7*4 
444 FlFsr 4faf444, 1952 ( 1952 44 19) ^ 4444T 
344 74T44 4=7 414 F44T 47 % 41%. ! 

44 :, m, 5iFsrF444 aro 1 44 otstri ( 4 ) 

5171 4?4T 4f444T 44 44T4 477 f 4 %^=3T4 7T7447 444 
4 "Fa"f444 % 744=4 444 74T44 47^4?aT714T4 4741 | I 

4^ 4Tfaf44r 1 97 1 % 51474, % 444 f?4 4>7 4474 
ft TFTfft 41447 ! 

[TIRF 44- 3 5 0 1 9 ( 1 1 4) / 7 1-47 olTT- 2 ( i) ] 

S.O. 3268. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
first proviso to section 6 of the Employees’ Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
the Central Government, after making necessary en- 
quiry into the jmatter, hereby specifies with effect from 
the 1st August, 1971. the establishment known as 
Messrs Devendra Exports (Private) Limited, G. I., In- 
dustrial Estate, Ambattur, Madras-58, for the purposes 
of the said proviso. 

LNo. S-35019/lli/71/PF-II(ii).] 



4568 


fME GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 19, 1894 


|T ART n 


RT° !RT° 32 « 8 . — %klR RTRiT, Rikkr 
frfsr ?rk wr frfa RfstfaRR, 1952 (1952 
FT 1 9 ) R?t HKI 6 % W RRRJR RITT RRcR SFffRRRt RT 

*r*ft*r rt?T jtr, rres’ fwr it rtrwf rtr Rkt %■ rrrtr 
1 w, 1971 t rr 4 PPfz rwttjr (srretr) fafa- 

k, Rt- 1 , sLU gfc^qRT tFTS£, SRaTRr, RSTR- 5 S RTRR 

irttr rt cr^aTTr w rtrir % RRtRRt r fRfRfe^ 
RRft p | 

[Fo TTR- 35019(ll 4) / 7 TRf <TT- 2 -(ii)] 


S.O, 3269. — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em- 
ployees in. relation to the establishment Known 
the Messrs Prewo Private Limited, 71, Second Main 
Road, Gandhinagar, Guind Road, Adyer, Madras-20, 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Pro- 
vident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 
of 19521, should be made applicable to the said estab- 
lishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April, 1972, 

LNo. S-35019(59)/72-PF.II.l 

TiTo FTfo 3 2 6L — RR: Wfa RTRTC Rt Rf RRtcT 
jfcrr p, f% RtRt farfaik, 7 1 rrnf rr ks, 

RTUT RET, fE<JR Tfa, snnrfT, BRIE- 2 0 RTRR r«im R 
RTRia fRETER sk RRRTlkiT Rt RfEW **T RiR ET 
RfRR i} Ff t RKETTt RfR^T Mr RtT R^TE 
klR fafE RfafRRR, 1952 (l952 RT 19) % RW 
ERR TRIBE RT RPj; fR'T RFt Blfeo; ; 

TFT:, m, BEE RfyfWT k fJRT 1 Rt TTRRT ( 4) 
5TTT BRIE STfWTT RT RRtR RFR |tt RktE RTR7P" BRB 
RftrfdRR % 3W BRE TRIBE Rt tPRtRm RTF RTEV 

*v C\ 

«rf«PpET 1972 % TTE'vT % TO for Rl BERT 
BRSft RTRRt I 

[R o RR-3 5 0 1 9 ( 5 9) / 7 2-Rt ot)R 0 - 2 ] 


S.O. 3270. — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em- 
ployees In relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Photo Stores, 101, M — Connaught Circus, New 
Delhi, have agreed that the provisions of the Employees' 
Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 
(19 of 1952), should bo made applicable to the said 
establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to havo come into 
force on (the first day of July, ] 971, 

LNo, S-35019(77)/72-PF.IL] 


TT 0 RT e 3 2 7 0. — RTF RTTtE ETRET BE R? 
RBtR gtRT P fR $RR BEET kk 1 0 I-EB-RTn? rpf/Fr, 
Rf fawft ETRR TRIBE R RFRg fEEtER Rk Rknfkif 
Rt BTR BT REEB Rt Bf P fR RBBkt VffRCR 

fRfR *fk fERT kTR fRfe RftrfRTR, 1 952 (l952 
RT 1 9) % EBRBJ ERR FERE Rl RTR RT%n | 

RR:, m, M RftrfRRR # HRr 1 RV RRRFr 
( 4) 5T7T RRRT RfRRRf RT Rqpl RTR §R kflR RRER 
RRR RfyfdRR % RTRRI RRT FRTRR Rt RT^STRT RPJ RTdt 

RR RftpjRRT 1971 k RRT^ ^ RRR fRR Rl ST^rR 
gf RR5ft RTRht I 

[R o RR-35 01 9( 7 7)/72-Tf ofnho-2] 

S.O. 3271.— Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
the Me.srs Bombay Industries Association, Sahakar 
Bhuwan, Near Narayan Nugar, Agra Road Ghutkoper, 
Bombay, hove agreed that the provisions of the Em- 
ployees’ Provident Founds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Cen- 
tal Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

Thig notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty-first day of October, 1971. 

[No. S-35018/34/72-PF.II(i).] 

RT ° RT o 32 7 1. — R7T: k£tR RVRTT RT R^ 
RRtR RTRT \ fR BRR RPR nvTtfRRRIR, RRRTT 

'RRR, RTGRR RRT % fRRtT, RTRR t’T?, RIRIRlM <, R Rf 
RTRR FRTRR R RRTCT fd'RTRR Rk R^RTkRf rV 
RfRRRT RR RTR RT R^RR R^ t fR R^RTTl RfRCR TrIr 
R k fETR RFR fkR RftJ-fRRR, 1952 (1952 RT 19) 
ifi RRRRJ RRR RRTRR R-t RTT[ fw RTR R I ; 

RR:, RR, RRR RfaffRR Rt RfTT 1 R?T TRSHTT 
( 4) 5TTT RRrR iJlfRRRT RT RRlR RTcT kkl RTRTT 
RRT RftrfdRR % RRR^R RRR RRTRR Rl RR3TTTT RpJ 
Rkt p I 

Rj| Rfe^RRT 1971 R RR^RT % ^RltflRR' TrR Rt 
RRFT RRFit RTRTft I 

[R5RT R.R- 3 5 0 1 S ( 3 4 ) / 7 i-R't ( i) ] 

S.O. 3272.— In exercise of the powers conferred by 
first proviso to section ti of ihe Employees' Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 o. 1 ' 1952), 
the Central Government, after making necc .savy en- 
quiry into the matter, hereby specifies with ellcel from 
tlie 31st October, 1971 the establishment muwn us 
Messrs Bombay Industries Association, Sahalcar 
Bhswan, Near Narayan Nagar, Agra Road Gh itkotper, 
Eombay-86 for tho purposes of the ^aid proviso. 

[No. S. 35013/ J4/72-FF lI(iD-J 



S5c. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVlNA 29, 5 89. 


4569 


TToSTTo 32 72. — fefefa RTTTT, TTTTTfe 'nf^T 
f>rffer sfk jrra T5FT frfij Hfsrferar, 1952 (1952 
jfrr 19 ) tt am 6 % ttt thth fra terra HferaftTT 
tpife T>Ta fir, feTT wT<(Tt Hira TTT % TraTcT 
31 5FFJTT, 1971 IT W TP^ (^Fftfert^TT, 

TT^TT 7TTT, -TRFFT THI % fTTH, 5TFKT Tfe, W+lMT, 
Bwf-86 TPFF PTTTT Ht T.T'Tg'ra BTT ira^H % SPffeFif 

% fra- frfrfesj rrafT 1 1 

[TTTT 071-3 5 0 1 8 ( 34) / 72-Tfe[T°-2( i')] 

S.O. 3273. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Amarjyoti Sales and Agencies (P.> limited, 
Station Road, Tumsar, District Bhandara, including 
its branches at Gondia and Warassoni (Mathyi Pra- 
desh) have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ 
Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund A"t, 1952 
(19 of 1952), should te made applicable to the said 
establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section l of the said fVct, the Cen- 
tral Government hereby applies! the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty-first day of October, 1970 

[No. S-35018(J?)/72 PF.lI(i).] 

tt osrr > 3 2 7 3 . — tt: ttttt ret Tf ttTt fen | 

f^tTqr^praJTTfrtTcTtraf trarah-r (trr-i ) FtFtjh, ranr 

CTf, TTTTT f>TTT ^"ifTTT, Frail TtfTTT TIT TTTTT>fe 
(Ro tr 3 ) Jr R7n?r WHfe Tfffrf TT f , TW-F r TrTT TT RF1T 
FTTtTH tffe HT Tlfpiff & Tf f 'sir FT TIT TT TqTT Tf 
| ftp EpTTTTT 'tFt®T FtFT HlT FT^T T>T FtFsT TtFjF i'TT, 
1952 ( 195 2 TT 19) % TTT T TTT fTFTT TT TTF F-FT 
TTT TlffT ; 

WT-, 5TT, HTT ’tFtF'JTT sfe STITT 1 # TTSTTH ( 4) 
fTTT TT?T TpTT'fr HT TfTT Fife TTTFTT TT.T 

?rF?jFTTT % TTTT TTI TTRT TT TTTira HPT TTtT I I 

T^ HfjfTTT 1 9 7 0 F T7PTT % F R'TTtT FtT FT TffT 
ft TTSIT SlTTpft I 

[T^rnTTfo 3501 3 ( 3 7 ) / 7 2-4t ° 2 (j)] 

S.O. 3274. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Mohinder Puri and Company, 7-Prcm House, 
Connaught Place, New Delhi, have agreed that the 
provisions of the Employees' Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should 
be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section t of the said Act. the Cen- 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first d a F of January. 1971. 

[No. S. 35019(78) /72-FF.II I 


TT° STTo 3 2 74 — TT: %?flT TTTTT FT T^ tT.ft.T fflTT | 
f<p HTT Tfo'TT 0 trr Tio 7-TT TT3TT, THTT "TT, Tf feral - 

TPTT P'PfTT ^ TFc[^ fdTTTT Tfe TlKTrfPTf Hi ToTTTT 

?T -c.TT TT TfiTT T# | Fh FTTHT srfT&tf ffify ?ffe 
FTra T ttt ffifer TrMrra, 1952 (1952 ft 19 ) % 

•o ' 

TTTT TTT TTTTT Tfft TIT f FT TTT TlFfT ! 

TT:, TT, TTT ?rfTFTTT ^ TTTr 1 # TTSHTT ( 4 ) f ITT 
5TTcT TrfTTTf TT TPfT T^fe f 7 , T TCTTT TTT ?tFtFtTR 
% TTTTT TTT PTTTT Til qTPHTT HIT TTTT> | I 

Tf PlFT^TTr 1971 Tf TTfd, fe TTT FTT % TTfT 
TTTt TTiTifr | 

[fitsll ([rf- 3 5 019 ( 78)/72-Tto i' , fio-2] 


S.O. 3275. — Whereas Messrs Bombay Wire Ropes 
Limited, Kolshet Road. Thana, Bombay (hereinafter 
referred to as the said establishment) has applied for 
exemption under clause (a) ot sub-section (1) of 
section 17 of the Employees’ Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act 1952 (19 of 19521; 

And whereas in the opinion of the Central Gove-r. - 
m-rt, the riles of the provident fund o. the said 
establishment with respect to the rates of contribution 
ace not less favourable to the employees there n mmi 
th< se specified in section 6 of the said Act, and the 
employees are also in enjoyment of other provident 
fui fl benefit which on the whole are not ess lavoiu 
uUe to the employees -chan the benefits ; rovu.eii under 
the said Ac: or under (he Employees’ Provider! Fur (is 
Scheme, 1951 (.hereinafter reterred to ac the said 
Scheme) m relation to the employees in any other 
establishment of a similar character; 

Now. therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 17 of the 
said Act, and subject to the conditions specified in the 
Scnedule, annexed hereto, the Central Government 
hereby exempts the said establishment from the opera- 
tion oi all the provisions ot the said Scheme and m 
pursuance of sub-section (3) of the said section 17, 
the Central Government hereby directs that. — 

(a) the employer in relation to the said establish- 
ment shall pay within fifteen days of the close 
of the month lo the Employees’ Provident 
Fund, inspection charges at the rate of 0.09 
per cent (zero point zero nine per cent) of the 
pay (basic wages dearness allowance, retain- 
ing allowance, if any and cash value of food 
concession idmissible thereom lor the tiny 
being payable to the employees of the said 
establishment who would have become mem- 
bers under the said Scheme but for this 
exe.o ption; 

(C) the said emp oyer shal 1 invest the pi evident 
fun. contriiut’ens in acrordame wilh the 
directions issued by the Central Government 
from time -*0 t me. 

The Schedule 

The employer shall submit such returns to the 
Regional Provident Fund Commissioner as the 
Certial Government may, from time to time, 
prescribe. 

2. The employer shall furnish to each employee on 

Annual Statement of Account or Pass Book. 

3. All expenses involved in the administration of the 

Fund including the maintenance of accounts, 
submission of accounts and returns, transfer 



457° THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; OCTOBER 


of accumulations, payment of inspection 
charges etc., sh.nl be borne by the employer. 

4. The employer shall display on the Notice Board 
of the establishment a copy of the rules of the 
Fund as approved by the appropriate Govern- 
ment ahd, as and when amended, alongwith a 
translation of the salient points thereof in the 
language ol’ the majority of the employees. 

6. Where an employee who is already member of 
the Employees’ Provident Fund (Sluiutm y 
i'und) or the Provident Fund of another 
exempted establishment is employed in his 
establishment, the employer shall Immediately 
enrol him as a member of the Fund of the 
establishment, an.) accept the past accumula- 
tions in respect of such employee and cred't to 
his account. 

C. The employer shall enhance the rate of provi- 
dent fund contribution appropriately' if the rate 
of provident fund contribution:? tor the class 
of establishments In which nig establishment 
falls is enhanced under ihe Employees’ Provi- 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 
1052 so- that the benefits under (be provident 
fund scheme of the establishment shall not 
become less favourable than the benefit pro- 
vided under the Employees” Provident Funds 
and Family Pension Fund Act, 19oi,. 

7 The establishment shall submit an audited 

balance sheet if it s provident fund every year 
to the Regional Provident Fund Commissioner 
within 3 monlhs of the close of the year, 

8 No amendment of the rules of the provident 

fund shall be made without the previous 
approval of the Regional Provident Fund Com- 
missioner. Whore any amendment is likely 
to affect adversely the interests of the emplo- 
yees, the Regional Provident Fund Commis- 
sioner shall, before, giving his approval, rive 
a reasonable opportunity to the employees to 
explain their point of view, 

[No. S.35014/7/72/PF-II1 

FR SIT' 3 27 5. — TcP TTT FTTFFTFFFFT fafTTT, 
Ft'-T# tt? , FTTT, TJWf , (fiPt 5TT FTF TIFTT TFT CT TFTT 
F3T FTt £) t FT FT# Tf'F'R fdftT T# TT*? TFT flfsT 
Nfa# TT, 1952 ( 1 9 5 2 FT 19) Ft TIN 1 7 Ft TT3TTT 
( 1 ) % ’JUT (f) F FXtT 75T % fpr FTTFT fFTT £ ; 

F> T TT: %=sYt TTFPC Ft NT if TfTTrF Tit F# Ff 
FT FT TFT TFTTT % TfFR ftfa fFTT TT% FT FT# if F 
f T 7 IF fwm if FT 5TTFT Tff n Ft TFT TrjfFTT Ft TFT 
6 if ffpTRE'F % FftT FTTT# 'TfFR ftfF Ft TRT F^fTFTft 
Tt ir # f Ft Ft FtMT F fTT FT fTTTFF TT FTfTTTFt 
ft FT TTTFT Tit f, Ft, TTT FFTT % fFTt 5PF pqFTF % 
TTFlfriTt F TFT if, TFT TfarFFT % TTHtF FT FTFr# 
TfFR fdfF 7#T, 19 5 2 (f>T 'Tt 7[T% TFFTF TFTT FfT 
F£T FTT ft ) % TTiftF eft FTrft £ J 

FT , TF, TFT TfFfFFT Ft FPT 1 7 Ft TTFFT ( 1 ) 

% TUT ( FT ) ST FT FFR FfjFFT F[ F NT F#T 3 -5 STt FTP 
F^F TT^Tt if rFftiFR FT? F FT# C# fR %‘XtT T^TIT 
~4FTPTTTT Ft TTTTFtT % TTY TTRjf F TT FT T 7TXTTN 


21, 1972/ASVINA 29, i894 [Part II- 


Ttt ft FIT TFT TFT 1 7 TT FT FT N ( 3) % Tj t P 1, l t 
FuffT RTFTfT fTFFFFT Ftf I fp ~ 

(f) TFT TFTFT T TTFR ft# TT JFT FFIFT % TT 
FTAlW Fit, Ft FTF FF RF F # Tf fftt Ft, 
TFT T F TJJ1T TFTF Ft FT #F, FcFTF #T 
FTT ( FTFlfRi FFfTt TT^Tf TcFT, STfiTOTTF 
'Toil, F# Ftf FT 5fV TF T r TFJFF NTT 
ft"FTFF TT TFT JJf-F ) t 0'09 (TpR FTTT'TF 
FFTTtfTfTFTTt F^F fd^FTTTRFTFTFT 
T TTF faF % Ntd^ FTFFTtt wfFnF fFfe 
Fit 7 FT ; 

( FT ) ^FT fFFlFT FfFC-T f-dfR FfFFTTt git, 

F^TTT TFT FFF FFF 9 T fFFTT FT, fT^TTf 
FT TFJCF, fFfTf^F FFFT I 

TT^-tr 

1. fTFlFFT FT^fFFT FlRR ftfiT FRFFF Fit ^ fFFrftFFt 
TFFT fFff trjpi FTFITT FFR FRF FT fFfSF FT | 

2/ fdttTFT sTcStFF FFTFTTt FTt TIFtf rt<3T - fFFTF FT FTR 
'FTFr I 

3. fFftar FT FTFTRF, f-iTFR NRTFf FF FFPT tjjfj, FpFptff 
NT fF^TfTFt FT NTI TTTT, ThFFf TT FFT’R fFfrWF r - 
TFFT WTfT FT RTTF TflRfFT f , if TPTtfTTRRt RFt 
FF sRF fFFPTFT JTR fFRT TTrrFT I 

4. fTFtTFT FRFtT FTFFT rj NFTtfFT fTfiT FT fdFFf 
Fit TFT UfT FFPTF FT ^TFN J FT RT fffT ft>R 7 Rtl RT 
FRt RTF FFtTF fpFr FTFFT TT FTFTTFRf F?t F|- 
FFF1 Fit FTFT if TT# TFT TFT TFTf TT TTFTT fft 

O ^ 

TTTfTT FTFr • 

5. qfTFT>f irFT TTFlft, TTTtTTTt ErfFR ftfsT (FTrTTi 
fTf^j) TTT5T — TPTfTtt WT FFTFT Tt T^T ftfa 
ipT FST #T it TTFT t, BT% FTTFT if fTTtrTT #TT t, Tt 
frrifTTFT FTPTT # fTftJ T FK7T % FT if ‘-3TFT FTT 
T^F ft F7>FT 5ft T TT grtFTTt # FT FT FF«F 
f TOT FFTT FT r C-ftFFE FT#: FR FT=5 RTF if FTT 

FTTJTj- I 

6. F# FF FT % TFTFFT % f^, fTTT fFTlFFT FT fFTTF 
TTTT f>, TfFTF ftRl % TTfTFTFf FT FT Ft'TTXf Tf^TR 
fFftET TR T7TF fFfST TTf^fFTT, 195 2 F TTRTF 
FTT Ff FTP -TT fFTTFF TfF c F fFfsT F RrTFPff F?T FT 
FTfFT FT # FN FFT T[fF ’RTTF Ft TfF'R fFf*T TFtT 
% RtftF Ft F’jfTRT'f TT F-jfFTTTrt ?T FT 5TTFT T 
FT NTT fifTFt STTCTT FTFIFT Tf^F ftfsT TtT FTPT 

- ‘ Si 

TNT fdfF TfsrfTTT 1 95 2 F RNtd % I 



Sec. 3(H)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/AS VINA 29, 1894 


7. tNTTT NT# tFnW FtFn FT NT#F2TN flTO fT N'T 
TT^P?TF nFn*T FtFn NTNFN F> NNfNT % #N ErE"% 
#NT NNTT I 

s. nFn®t fart far# if wfrf # n#nn t#Fnf nFfn 
FtFn ntnfn % 5 # nt#nt % Fntt t# Ffnt nttttt i 
5fft Ff# NWtNT ?T FTNrfpft % Ffo' f IT tFcIFN TTTN 
TFTT NNTSN ft NfT T#pTF NFNSNjFTFsr NTNFN, NTTT 
NTTtNT # % 3 #, FTNTFtNT Fit ?M NF'BFPT 7W 
F# FT nFfNNTN NNNT #T i 

[T^sTT ITT-535014 ( 7 ) / 7 2-Tt 2] 

S.O. 3276. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Mazdo-or Papers, Limited, Bari Mansion, 
Jamshedpur-1 have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Cen- 
tral Government hereby applies, the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of January, 1958. 

[No. S. 35019 (69) /71-PF.IL] 

FTo NT° 32 76. — NNo %#N NTFTT FT Nf T"f[N 
ftcTT | Ff NIPT NNf T TFT FnFtTN, NT# NNTT, NNNN- 
yr— 1 TTNF NNTTN % TFN5 fTNTNF N# TWfprf F> 
NfN©TT W NTN TT NfW ft Nf | Ff F<TNT# nFnot FtFn 
N# fTJT TNT f’ifj NFsifTNN, 1952 ( 1952 FT 19) 

% TTNN NFN TNTTT F> NTTfFT N# NlFf^ ; 

nn nn, tft nPnFtnn ft snrr 1 # ntjttt ( 4) 

STO NNTT fPfNNT FT NNTT FIN |<r ##N TOTl NFN 
TrfafTFT % ntnn tfn tnttt f> iTNNNTTr hit fit# 1 1 

Nf NfsPJNTT 1958 # NTT# F TNT fNT # TN'T 
ff TRlft NR# I 

[T° RT-3 50 1 9 ( 69) /TfRF° 2] 

S-O. 3277. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Vinodrai Manilal Company Private Limited, 
Sis Vithaldas Lane, Mulji Jetha Market, Bombay-2, 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Pro- 
vident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 
of 1952), should be made applicable to the said esta- 
blishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers 1 conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section i of the said Act. the Cen- 
tral Government hereby applies the provis.ons of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification' shall be deemed to have come into 
force on 'the thirtieth day of June, 1971. 

[No. S. 35018 (40) /72-PF.II.) 

FT°NTo 32 7 7. — NN: TTR F?f Nf N#N ftNT 

| pF 7FFT FfTTT’TN NNR7N FTo, NTfNT MtSt, FtR 


45^1 


ferr TFT vTT, NT NT n?t ntFftt, snrf-2, THTF FNTTT 
TTTT fTNTNF NT FTNlfcrf # NfTSNT NT NTT ”tt 
N fTN ft Nf | pF FTNT# ##7 fd% tip TNT 

fTfar nFnFtNN, 1952 ( 1952FT 19) F TTNN NFNFNTTT 
# NTT fry Nlf NTHr | 

NN NN, NFNNfNpNNN # NTT 1 # TTJPT ( 4) 
TKT TTT Nf#TT TT TTtT f(T %#T TTTTTT TTT 
TftrrTTT % TINT TFT FTFTT # yTTSTTT NTT TFxft | I 

Tf TrjlfTTT 1971 # NT % TTTT fed # TFT 
ft TFTlft TTiTift I 

[tt ott?t- 35018 / 40/7 2 -Ttyn- 2 ] 

S.O. 3278. — Whereas. — it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Bajaj Industrial Finance (Private) Limited, 
United Life Building, F-Block, Connaught Place. New 
Delhi-1, have agreed that the provisions of the Emplo- 
yees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 
1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to ihe 
said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Cen- 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of September, 1971. 

[No. S. 35019(72) /72-PF II- 1 

Flo TTT° 32 78. — TT: %#T TTTTT FT Tf Tfitj fTTT 
| fd TTFT NT IT ^NfTTNvr TTTTT (nTTFt) fafTTN, NTTffTN 
jfTNT HTTP fNfFTT, TT-STtF, FTTTT c TT, Nf fd?#, 1 
TTTT TNTTT T TTcNN fTNtNF FT? NifTTf # NT— 
TINT fTNrN TTTTfTN ft Tf | fF FTNTTt TfNSTfTRr 
FftTflfN TTTfTFN FrRrfTNT, 1952 ( 1952 FT 19) 

% FINN TFT TNTTT F> NTT fF t NTT NTff^ I 

NT: NT, TFT nFnFtNT Ft WJ 1 F> TTNrU 
( 4) TINT NNN nFfTN? FT TTtT FTT f T ^FtN TT- 
FTTTFT nFnFtTT % “TTN TFT TNPTT FT NTTFIN 
NIT FTTf | I 

<r\ ■- 

Nf TrfN^NTT 1971 % FtT^NT, % TNT FfTFtTUN 
ft NT# NTCTTt I 

[j^To -35017 (72)/72— Tt—TF 2] 

S.O. 3279. — Whereas it apears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs G. William Fabrications Private Limited, 15. 
Mathura Road, Faridabad, including its branch 47/1 
Friends Colony, New Delhi have agreed that the provi- 
sions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made 
applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act. the Cen- 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 



4572 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 [Part II— 


This notification shall come into force "fin the thirty 
first day of May, 1972. 

[No. S. 35019 (61 1/72-PF.II 1 

Wo?rro 32 79 — NT: ^zftN N^FTT Ft N? NTtT 
?t?T t fF 3ziN Tf'T'ifTfTTT NdfTF»FN NT?«fN PePeY? 
15, NfTTZfT, FpNTNTT pTNE 47/l,FNTN FTNFTt, 

N i fNWt 5r NNFT NETT NpFNpNT % TINT FNTNT N 
NEW f?NRF N> FNNlpENT Ft NfWNT FN NTT T 5 " 

N?N? St n£ I fF FNTrd' NfFN PrfiT NET |TEN 
NNTpTfN NpTplNN, 1952 ( 1952 TT 19) % NTW 
NTT TTO FT NEtPfN NTT NtPsY ; 

NcP, NT, NTT NfapTNN Ft NTZT 1 Ft NETTM ( 4) 
STD NW FfFTNT FT NNTN FZ T giT fPTN EfFTZ NTT 
NftrfNNN F NNW NTT Nm FT TTT^JFT NEJ FZcft ft 

NT NpEJNNT 197 2 Ft ?f F FTTTNN pFT Ft NTT 
?>rt 1 

[To rrq-c 3 5 0 1 9 ( 6 1 )jl 2-Tt'EF 2] 

S-O. 3280. — -Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Kohinoor Engineering (Private) limited. D-2, 
Industrial Estate. Ambattur, Madras-58 including its 
Administrative Office at 5A, Perambur Barracks Bond, 
Madras-7 have agreed that the provisions of the Em- 
ployees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-sc ’t Jon (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Cen- 
tral Government hercbv 1 applies the provisions o£ the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall he deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of July, 1971. 

[No. S-35919/101/71-PF.II,] 

FTo NT" 32S 0 — NT FNftN N^FF FT N? NtYt TtTT 
% pF tfiN FTgtT? TTItYtEht (NIP ) pTo, ft-2, WpE^NN 
ttjNN, TFTTT?, N.TTN-5 8 T7T ?NFT NNTNT FrN?TN-5N, 
q-rt^T t^TT Zt? NTTT-7 NTF enITN N NEN-i; fTNtNF 
NV F^Trfwf FT TTTTTT NT TFT T r NZNT T> F? Y P F 
FTTrZt NpEN PtPt nV fNT TFT PtPn NpsrPNNN, 1952 
( 1952 FT 19) F 7TTT NTT ZTTTT Ft NTT fFT NtY 
NTpFt; 

NTT NT, NTT nFnPtNN Ft NTZT 1 Ft NTNTZT ( 4) 
3FT TFT TPfTNT FT NTtT F^Y f? ifJTtN NZFR NTT 
NfjfTNN % NTT J NTT eNTTT FT fTT^TFT NEj; FWt fr \ 

FT NprjTTT 1971 % N/TTT, ? FF fFT FT NNT 
ff NNNt NT?NT I 

[T» W-3501 9( 10i)/71-Tto rrqio 2] 

S.O. 3281. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs. Pal and Associates, P/241, Lake Road, 
Calcutta-29 have agreed that the provisions of the 


Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fuhd 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-sevtion (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Cen- 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall he deemed to have come irto 
force on the Thirty-first day of March, 1971. 

[No. S-35017(40)/72-PFIl.J 

FTo NT o 3281. — NT : %ErfTN NTT' 1 f FT N? NTtT 

T TFT | fF #N# TEN W NNtf NNNN, nY- 241, %F ZT? 

FNFTT-2 9 NETF E^m Y NEW pTNTNF NtZ f4 n ! P ' N f 

Ft NfNTNT ^N TFT FE NTNF Ft Nf ^ fF F^Nlft NfFN 

frfsr nYz fnef frftr NftTfrw 1952 ( 1952 ft 

1 9) % NT FT NTT ZTTFT Ft NET Pen ^tY NTP^t ; 

NT NT NTT NpNfTFN Ft Nprr 1 Ft NTTTZT ( 4) 
3TTT TFT FPfTNY FT TTYf F^Y %^ftN NEFC NTT 
NftrPTFN % NTF-N NTT ZTINT Ft ET^TTZT NEJ FZTt I I 

No NpT'JTTT 1 9 7 1 Ft NTT % fJFNtNT pTN Ft NfT 
NNftt FTENt I 

[N’aNT itn- 35017( 1 0 ) / 7 2-Tt a EF-2] 

S.O. 3282— Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees, in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Deversons Stylish Printing Press 5. Malik 
Building. Chuna Mandl, Paharganj, New Delhi, have 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers 1 conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section l of the said Act, the Cen- 
tral Government hereby 1 applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April, 1970. 

[No. S. 35019(70) /71-PF.II.] 

FTo NT° 3 28 2 — NT n^FP" FT NT NTTt 

tTtt % Pf NN’t Ytenen E^rtpET PnPnn tN, 5, ntPtf 

pTpNTN, NTT NNt, N1[T? NT, N# P?^ NTNF ENTNT Y N^W 
pTNTNF NVZ FNNTpENf T?T NfNWT ?N TFT NE NSW ?Y 
N^ % fF f4nTZT NfFN fNfN NTz f?EN NNN ffifN NPiT- 
PpTN 1952 ( 1 9 5 2 FT 19) % NTNN NTT ZNT’TT Ft NEJ 
pprr FT% NTf?? j 

NT NT, NFT NfsrPTNN FT NPT 1 Ft NWRT ( 4) 
TINT NTN FfTTNf FT NNTN WY ?rr %73 \N N^FI e NTT 
NprfNNN % NTNN NTT WFET FT ENT?m NET FFfT t I 

NT nPeEJNTT 1970 % N^N ^ NNN fFT Ft N^tT 
NNNt NTitNt I 

[No ttn-35019( 70) 71 Nt ?F-2] 



Slc. 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA: OCTOBER 21 , 1972 /ASVlNA 29 , 1894 


4573 


S.O. 3.283. -Whereas it appears to the Cenhal Gov- 
ernment that the employer and too majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messers Frontier Engineering Cons ruction Company 
Private Ltd., Jorpukhuri, East Gauhati-1, District, 
Kami up, Assam, have agreed that the provisions of 
the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of set-lion 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of July, 1971. 

[No. S, 35019(66)/72-PF.II.| 

qqo 53T0 3283 — qq : faktq q' r qq T fal qf qqk fiqT 
| fa qqfa ?3frfaqfa?r qqqwqsqq wf[ Tfifacf 

fqffafaq 1 , fw W^T, ?PPT 

qrqqr fa qrr® fqqkrr fak qfaqTfkir faf qqfaqqr 
fq TTr te qgqq ft qf & ffa qfaqkt qfkq ffaffa *rk 
qqpg kiq ffafq qfqfqqq, 1952 ( 1952 qq 19) % 
qqqtr TTT qqrqq -fa q pt ffaq ti q ; 

qq:, m, 7TJ ErffaFqqq fat etpt i qfa qpjFT ( 4 ) 
STET qqq UTffaqqf TT qqtq qkf ^iT faktq qrq7rr w 
qfafaqq % qqfaq qqq qqTqq qfa qqqg-rrr ^tpt T*qf I i 

qq gftpjqqr 1971 faf % qqq far far q<|vr 
qqjfr qrqql i 

[fao tTq-35019( « 6 )/ 72 -qrrrr 2 ] 


S.O. 3284. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees In relation to the establishment, known as 
Messrs Tiruppur Dyeings Bleaching Works, Pethi- 
chettipuram, Tiruppur-1, have agreed that the provi- 
sions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act, J952 (19 of 19521, should be made 
applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of May, 1972. 

[No. S-350D(69)/72-PF.II.] 

TToqio 3284 — TT : fafafa fRETE fat qq qqfq ftqr 
ft ffa qqq fkqf Trfajq sfatffaq qqfa. kft qktqrq, 
fFpeojT-i qnqp Eqrqq fa ffaqkrT qk qrqqTfkff 
fat qffaWT RT qrr T ETferq fa rfa ft far qrqqrfa qfarq 
ffaffa fak farq qqq ffaffa qfqfaqq, 1952 ( 1 952 qq 

1 9 ) fa qwr qqq Eqm far tpj ffaq qrfa qrfarr ; 

qq m, qqq qffaffaqq fat qprr l fat qTTFT ( 4 ) 
5 PT qqq qfaqqr qq qqk qqq f rr fakfq qrqqr qqq 
srffaffaqq fa qqfaq qqq f«rm far ^qjiET qrq qrqf ft 


qq qfa^qqr 1972 faf q: fa qqq faq far tit 
qqqr qrofar 1 

[qo r;q 0 3501j( 69)/72-TtoqT>o-2j 

S.O. 3285. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs. Indian Hume Pip-e Co. Ltd., Venkatala, P.O. 
Yelahanka, Bangalore North District have agreed 
that the provisions of the Employees' Provident Funds 
and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exorcise of the powers confer- 
red by sub-section (4) of setion 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty-first day of March, 1970, 

[No. S-35019(28)/72-PF.IL] 

qqo qia 3285 — qq: fafafar erete qq qf qfafar ftfqT 
ft ffa qqq ^fwqr ?„qq tttt fa » ffaffak, qqqppq r, s i >a < 
faqr^qq, faqqk qr4 fafa^qq ter pqm q quq^ 
fqqtqqT fak qrfaqrfkff faf q^fawr qq qiq qq fa 
I far qrqqifr qfkq fafar far tett fan fafsr qfqfaqq 
1952 ( 1952 qq 19) fa qqnr qqq mqq fat ctpj; 
faff m qiffar | 

qrq qq qqq qfqfqqq qft tpt i fat swet ( 4 ) 
Tin qqqr wfaqqf qq qqtq qrrq ^rr fakfa qqqqE qqq 
qfafqqq fa TTTT qqq qqrqq fat rrqqjTET TEdf | I 

q? ^fq^qqT 1970 fat qqfa fa ^qqtqif faq fat 

ipfET ft qqfat nfat 1 

[OTiq 35019 (28/72-itorrq52] 

S-O. 3286. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs, Thermrite Engineering Private Limited Bhosari 
Industrial Estate, Nasik flood, Poona-26 have agreed 
that the provisions of the Employees' Provident Funds 
and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
should be made applicable to the said establishment. 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of January, 1971. 

[No. S-35018(21)/72-PF,IL(i)] 

qqoqfo . 3286 — qq: fakfar q •'tie qq qf qqfar ^far 
t ffa faqfa kqfaq fafffqqfk (snqk ) farffafar , -mg-fr 
^jqqfaipq qck, qrffaqr eit , qyr, 26 qrqqi q E«nqq 
fa faqq fqqfarqr qk qrfaqTfaqf qfa qfqsqr qq qiq te 
qqqq ft qf ffa Tfaqkf qfqpq ffaffa fafa qmq faqq 
faffa Erffafqqq 19 5 2 ( 1 9 5 2 qq 19 fa qq p q qqq 
Eqjqq fa qrq ffaq qq ^iffa-T i 



4574 


[Part II- 


The Gazette of India: October 21, 197.2/ as vina 29, 1894 


rr:, rr, tor srfalwr rtci 1 tostot ( 4 ) 
am tor TTrfwTt w wFt wr gq to+to tor 
RffffRRR % tort tot wh w ifitjt < 1 rt^ rtrr[ 1 

Rg Rfagrorr 1971 # rrtoY % m fro %t tor 
ffffflt RTORt | 

[ff 1^-35018 ( 2l)/72-<ft tJW-2(i)] 

5.0, 3287 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
first proviso to section 0 of the Employees’ Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), the Central Government, after making neces- 
sary enquiry into the matter, hereby specifies with 
effect from the 1st January, 1971 the establishment 
known as Messrs. Thermrite Engneermg Private 
Limited, Bhosari Industrial Estate, Nasik Road, Poona- 
26 for the purposes of the said proviso. 

[No. S-35018(21) /72-PF.II. (ii) ] 

Wo Wo 328 7 — %rYr TOWT, wNtY 'fffaw 
fafij rYt totr ffwi fTftr 1952 (1952 

w 1 9) tY tnrr 6 % RRR torjr ttoi tor Trfwrf 
w toYt to jn; tor faro r mw rtr to % 

TORT^ IRRWY 1971 R RifalSR TfafatlfTO (ffTOW) 
MrTO, ffYffd TOTOYYrT nvjx /TT, TFT- 2 6 

RTRRi WPTR T>t ^RR aTOT TOR RTO3RT % TODWT % far 

fafafer WrY | I 

[RoqR-35018 ( 2l)/72-*fto'7?I-2(i;)] 

5. 0. 3288. — Whereas it appears to the Central ^ v- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
The Trichur Cooperative House Building Society Limi- 
ted, No, R, 260, Nehru Nagar, Trichur-6, have agreed 
that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds 
and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of th§_ said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall come Into force on the thirty 
first day of May, 1972, 

[No. S-35019(29)/72-PF.II.] 

WoRTo 3288 . — TOT: %r#tR RTOTO Tit RR RRtR gtRT t 
f% #1# ftrw WWITOIto gTTOT fafwR 
To RTO- 260, ^ RRT, fRRT-6 RTRT TOTTR R TOR3T 
CtYitt rYt wfarrfrRlr tY r|tort tr rir tt r^rr 
gt Ri[ ^ f% wirtY 1 RfwR fffftr rYr wto Yrt frfff 

RffffTOR, 1952 ( 1952 W 19) % TO%ff TO 

Tit RRTai TT RPT f%TT RM ‘dlfgu ; 

RR :, TOT, TOR RffffRRR %t RTOTIFY TWR ( 4) 

arcr tor Rfarfff toYr tot %wfR rwk tor rTr- 

(mm H % TORff TO WTTR %Y t^RRRTTT RTR WlY Y I 
Rg RftlRRRT1972 % 3 1% for %t RfTgYY 1 

[%° tr^~35019( 29)/72-'fio biRo 2 ] 


S.O. 3289. — Whereas it appears lo the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment itnown as 
Messrs. Appex Gas Service, Soni house, opposite Roop 
Talkies, Nehru Road, Santacruz (Eust) Bombay-55 
nave agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ 
Provident Fund s and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 
(19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said 
establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

Thig notification shall be deemed to have come in- 
to force on the thirtieth day of September, 1971. 

LNo. S-35018(47)/72-PF.II,"| 

Wo Wo 3 289. — TO : YtoYr W WT %T TO TOftR gTRT | 
RRR RRTR RR R^R, RTfT gpjR, TO HIrYR % R1RR 1 
R?R <Yr, TORT ’Rr ('JR), TORt-55 RTTO WTTO Y TOS 
farDFF ffV WTRTfrof T?T RETORT ?R Riff TO RTOffr ?[f 
R^ | far WTRITT RTfwR ffffy wYt TsrR YVpT fafR tlfff- 
faffR, 1952 (1952TR 19)% WTRff TO TRTTR %T vTT^ 
f%ff WR Rl%n ■ 

wr:, wr, wet RffffwrR tnn 1 grEnu ( 4 ) 
sm TOrt Vlfawiff W TT>I tor |tt Wjpl TOWT TOT 
RffffTRR' % TORff TOT TOTTTT %T n^Rgror TO Wrff % \ 

rt wfagrorr 1971 % fR^RT %TtTOfcT%tsrgrrgf 

TPTfft RTRRt I 

[ffo RR-3501 8( 47)/ 72- c ftrnR o -2] 

S.O. 3290.— Whereas It appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs. Metacarv, 31 and 40 Municipal Industrial Estate, 
Keshav Rao Khafie Marg, Next to Simplex Mills, 
Bombay-11 have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 (10 of 1952), should Ibe made applicable 
to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore In exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirtieth day of June, 1971. 

[No. S-35018(43)/72-PF.II.] 

Wo RT° 3 2 00. — RR: %?fiR TOWT %T Rf RTfa 
gtTT | f% RRR RRTWR, 31 40 wffffffTOr TO%Rff 

tttot,%rrttr Rrr% rrt frocRw fron it rrt fw, 1 1 

RTRRT TOITR % WR3 faRlRTlY sftT wtRTfwt %t RgTWT 
TR RTR TO RgRT gY Rf f% wIrpY RfRW fRfff srfjR 
TTO fafR RftrfRRR, 1952 (1952 W 19) % 

TORR TOR TOTTR %t WR fw^ RTR RI%r ■ 

RT, RR, TOT RffffRRR RKT 1 %t TORTTT ( 4) 
’TOT RTR RfarR'tW RRtR W(Y gT WT)R 0 744 < TOR 
RffffTRR % TORR TOR TOTTR %t RTR TORI' I 



4575 


Sec. 3u')] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: 


4 ? 1971 47 44 % fff44 fv4 Tit 444 

g£ TnTSfV 4T441 I 

[50 iRTo 3501 8 ( 43)/72-Tto rr^o 2 ] 

S.O. 3291, — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
ernment that the employer and the majority oi the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Calculi a Motor Dealers Association, C.M.D.A. 
Buildings, 8 , Bow Street, Ca'cutta-12 have agreed that 
the provisions oi’ the Employees' Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act. 1952 (19 of 1952), should be 
made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall !be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of August, 1971. 

[No. S-350mitfV72-FF.il.] 
4 i° 3291. — 44: Ft 44 4 dkr 

ffrciT 4 fqv 44# 4744741 tfm FTbF trtjfTf’T'TtnFT, Flo tnT° 

FT 0 tt 0 fFkFTB- 8 4T4 tffk, 47B47BT-- 1 2 4T447 44144 
F 4*444 f44'T447 4k FT 4f444T £4 4T4 4444 

?T fit | f% 9744 KT fFfsr srk 174*4 444 f^rfer 
srffrf444, 1952 ( 1952 44 19 ) F B444T 444‘FTT44 
FT 41^ fFT 4T% 4lff[rr 1 

5crcT: m, iw irftrfwr FT srrcr 1 FT btottt ( 4 ) 

SHJ 444 FfFtFT FT 4414 474# 414714 444 

% swv i«im Ft 41^ 1 1 

4| sRfsFfFTt 1971% 44?4 % 444 fed FT 444 |f 

445# srnrifT | 


[Fo 44 ° 35017 ( 16)/72-FTo ^ 02 ] 

S.O. 3292. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov- 
urnment that the employer and the majorily of the 
Employees in relation to the establishment known as 
the Messrs Coronet Pharmaceuticals 9, Shantipagar 
Industrial Estate, Vakola Saillacruz (East) Bombay-55 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees' 
Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 
(19 of 1952), should be applicable to the said estab- 
lishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come 
into force on the first day of November, 1970. 

[No. S T 35018(45)/72-PF.II.] 
44° 4T° 32 92: — 44: FFFf 4TTTT FT 4f JTdTtf 

^ fF #44 FT Odd FBTPTfe'Pcff— 9, BlfFl < 
iFk, tFTbt 4F4r44 (g#) ^r^_ 55 
PWT F 4*4^4 fFFkrFT Fk ThklfW FT 4|4w 34 
F 14 tz fffJTT Ft 4f I ^■4^'rFT' 4^4 fFfF Fk 47344 


OCTOBER 2), 1972/ASVINA 29, 1394 


kid fFfsf irTtEPfETtf, 1952 (1952 44 1 9) % bt^et 
444 44T44 FT 4T^ fpTT 4lF ^Tf^TT ; 

eft:, m, 444 wfaftfTpiFT urn 1 FT bwht (4) 

JTTl 444 BfFlFT 44 3414 444 ft> FnFk 4T47R 444 

^1444 % 444*4 444 *4144 FT tra^TTnr btj 444T 

IRdTf I 

44 ufF^ddr 1970 FT 44*44 % 444 f%4 FT spf4 
gf 4*rsfT britt 1 

[F 0 i^-o 3501 8 ( 45) / 7 2— FT 0 cntfo2] 

S.O. 3293. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
first proviso to section 6 of the Employees’ Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1852 (19 of 
1831), the Central Government, alter making neces- 
sary enquiry Into the matter, hereby specifies with 
effect, from tfie 3 1st Octuuer, 1970, the establishment 
known as Messrs. Amar.iyoti Sales and Agencies (P) Li- 
mited Station Road, Tumsar. District Bhandara Includ- 
ing its brances at Gondia and Warassoni (Madhya Pra- 
desh) for the purposes of the said proviso. 

[No. S-35018(37)/72-PF.II.(ii).] 
44 ° iTT o 32 93: — FFW 4447T4, 44T4T1T Vlf-W 

krTsr sfTr qkr^r fFrfET 1952 ( 19524419 ) 

FT eirt 6 % sm 44447 sFiircrB^ifeFT 44 sFri 474F 

fFpr F 5TT4 TrFr % 4F4T4 3 1 

1 97 0 F TOR ^frfcT RW trtrs- (aTojfFfifiJ, 

t-Jyid Tis, t, kiBT i < i , fFrnT FTfkrr Fk 4 1 ntFTut 
F 4 bFT TTpgrrt tifkkfrT f 41441 prm FT wttttri 
444 TRpr % aFTskt % farr fFfdt>, r A 4rdT 1 1 


[F ° m O 3 5 01 8 ( 3 7 )/ 7 2- 'TTotr’tft^ii)] 

S.O. 3294. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
th e first proviso to section 8 of the Employees’ Provi- 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 
of 1952), the Central Government, after making neces- 
sary enquiry into the matter, hereby specifies with 
effect from the 1st July, 1971 the establishment known 
as Messrs Suman Export Corporation 61-Sunder 
Nagar, New Delhi including its branch at World Trade 
Centre, 9th Floor, 13/B-l Ezra Street, Calcutta for 
the purposes of the said proviso. 

[No. S-35819(75)/72-PF.II.(ii).] 
44 o sjto 3 29 4. — FFTr RT44T qukrkT VffqraT 

fkffer Fk 444 fafe iafsFm, 1952 ( 195244 19) 

FT STRf 6 % sm 9 T 4 J 4 T 5 R 1 4 TB BfFpff 44 44 %! 4 T# 

D EsjTtj f F r RT F BTsntfPF 4T4 44CF % 4F4TB 1 
19 71 F 44R 544 6 1- 444, 

4 f frvfT 44 r vrFr b bt vt Frn, fikfT rrfFw, 1 3/FT- 
1 , 4744741 , 41447 WFf FT iTcl^dRl 444 

9 < 7 ^+- % TFvrFf % f%rr fFfFkue: 4 ^ 1 1 

[Fo t[ 4 o — 35 019 ( 75)/7 2 -FTiJ 47 - 2 (ii)] 

New Delhi, the 3rd August 19 T 2 

S-O. 3295. — In pursuance of clause (c) 0 f sub-sec- 
tion (1) of section 5 A qf the Employees’ Provident 



4576 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINa 29, 1894 [Part IM 


Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (9 of 1952) 
the Central Government hereby appoints the Secretary 
to the Government of Kerala, Labour Department, 
Trivandrum, ag a member of the Central Board of 
Trustees and makes the following further amendments 
in the notification of the Government of India, in the 
Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation 
(Department of Labour and Employment) No. S.O. 
2412 dated the 6th July, 1970 namely:- — - 

In the said notification against serial No- 9 fur the 
entry "The Deputy Secretary (Health and Labour) to 
the Government of Kerala, Health and Labour (G), 
Department, Trivandrum” the following entry shall 
be substituted, namely: — 

“The Secretary to the Government of Kerala, La- 
bour Department, Trivandrum.” 

[No. 12/5/09-PF.IL] 

Rffeufr, 3 nrut, 1972 

Jfrro Nf° 3 2 95. — RfkH fafa Nk 

farR NftrfRRR, 1952 (1952TT 19 ) rfr 5 -^f 

iff IW 1 % ^(R^ffTH NTH wfafpft NT NRtR nr! 

%?skr RUETH, %TH RHER % RkTH, NR fNRTE, faNNR 

^7t fRWfl Nk % RN RTUT N RR R RHRUTT 

fkjNT Tuft | qk rtth h tnr % nr, ilk JTdkr 
rhthr (nr wk rtortt faNPi ) nY NkpjnHT r o nt ° fa ° 

2412Hkkr 6R[HT$, 197 0 R FfiERfa (HR RTlMR NUTl 
NN?H : — 

HRH wfk^apTT t, NR RW 9 % RTRk RTHl Rfafe % 
WET IT, “%TH TOR % HRHTkFT (UTTBR HNT NR), 
britor to w (®) faKPT, nfrfk: $ Fre, 

fdrokrfdRr srkrfe RfaTOTfaH # retry, Nkrr — 

“Nth rtntt % rFhh, nr fkiTE, fHt’HR” 

[rfo 12 ( 5 )/ 69— NY RR> 2 ] 

New Delhi, the 4th August 1972 

S.O. 2296. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Employees’ Provi- 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act! 1952 H9- 
of 1952), the Central Government hereby rescinds the 
notifications of the Government of India in the Minis- 
try of Labour and Employment No. S.O. 2555 dated 
the 30th August, 1963 and in the Ministry of Labour, 
Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of 
Labour and Employment) No, S.O. 2281 dated the 3rd 
June. 1969. 

[No. 20(9)/68-FF,I.] 
DALJIT SINGH, Under Secy. 

Tf ftrot, 4 STRUT 1 972 
«ET°NTo 32 96. — NRNTTY HfRER fakf Nk; 

krtd krftr NftrfRHR, 1952 ( 1952 nt 19) ^ httt 13 

% r Y WEUTT ( 1 ) iTTTT SETH HkHET NT HRYE NUT N^hYr 
HTNTT, RTTH RTNTT % NR ifk TYNER r'HRR nY NfaT[NHi 
RRRT NT 0 NTo 25 5 5 , HTfY’R 30 NHTH, 1963 N'k NR, 
fktRTT ifk TOUT (NR Nk TRHTT fRHTH) 

Eft STftkJW RSRT NT° NT ° 2281 , HE Ckf 3 ^T, 1969 
Nt krafkcT + tol ^ I 

[Ro 20 ( 9)/68— RNol] 
RNhYh ft) NRT HfNN I 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 2nd August 1972 

S.O. 2297. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 6 of the Coal Mines Labour Welfare Fund Act, 
1947 (32 of 1947), read with clause (v) of sub-rule (i) 
of rule 6 of the Coal Mines Labour Welfare Fund 
Rules, 1949 the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shri N. N. Singh as a member of the Coal Mines La- 
bour Housing Board vice Shri W. J. Jameson, since ex- 
pired, and makes the following amendment in the noti- 
fication of the Government of India, Ministry of La- 
bour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of 
Labour and Employment) No. S.O. 1014 dated the 
6 th March, 1970. namely: — 

In the said notification, against Serial No. 7, for 
the entry "Shri W. J, Jameson”, the following entry 
shall be substituted, namely: — - 

“Shri N. N. Singh.” 

[No. U. 23025/10/71-M.IL] 
P R. NAYAR, Under Secy. 
(nr hYt tthrtt fwi) 

e£ fkufl, 2 NRRT, 19 72 

NT° NTo 32 9 7. — NTRHT ’fFT NR NERTH ffifST 

FrRR, 1949 N FRRR 6 % HR-fHRR ( l) % tRON (V) 

% RTR Rf5TT NTRHT ’TFT NR N5RPR ffifu nYuIrNR, 1947 
( 1947 NT 32) NT7J 6 3TU NTH iRfarff RR 5TRTR 
RTTOTK RR'laTTT ; fWRo No NETFT 
fNWT ^NExT it RRT | TR NT RRo TT^o !f?r 

TFFTT NTR NR NTRTRR NT# TT RRHT fRRdrT ’NUff | Nk: 
RTUT TOTOTT %, NR, TDTRTT Nk fiNTtR RNTNR (NR 
NkcTORTC kr-RTR) # NkrgNRT RRRT NTo NTo 1014 
Hkk* 6 RTN, 1 970 R fRTRfkfRTH RHEFT RHdt 
NN^ 

3RR NftFJNRT R RR TkRT 7 T R1RR Tl — 
“nI Y5f”To k kRRR" % ^RFT TT fRRTkrf’TH 
RfRfcT NkrFRTfRH tI nktrI, nnfj; :■ — 
"NT fi[Ro R?r 0 ffT|" 

[Ro Ro 2302 5/1 0/7 l-RRo 2 ] 
'fto NRo kNT, NTT RfRR I 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 4th August 1972 

S.O. 3298 — Whereas the Indian Mining Association 
has nominated under clause (d) of sub-scction (1) of 
section 12 of the Mines Act, 1952 (35 of 1952), Shri H. 
Niyogi in place of Shri S. K, Nargundkar as member 
of the Mining Board constituted for the State of Bihar; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (1) of section 12 of the Mines Act, 
1952 (35 of 1952), the Central Government hereby 
makes the following amendment in the notification of 
the Government of India in late Ministry of Labour 



Sec. 3 (in] 


4577 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21,' 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


and Employment No S.O. 3938, doted the 22nd Dec- 
ember, 1862, namely: — 

In the said notification, under the heading “Mem- 
bers” against serial number (3). for the existing entry, 
the following entry shall be substituted, namely: — 

“Shri IT, Nivogi, Chief Milling Engineer, The Tata 
Iron and Steel Co Ltd.. Jainadoba, P.O. Jcnl- 
gora, Distt. Dhanbad. 

[Nominated by the Indian Mining Association 
under clause (d) of section 12(1)1". 

[No. V-2201 2/3/72-MI.] 

B. K. SAKSENA, Under Secy. 

(N7 7% lW faRTT) 

Tf f##, 4 SHUT, 1972 

77° 5TTo 3 2 98, — 77: 7F#7 N77 777 % NTT Tlfk- 
f777, 1952 ( 1952 77 35) # 7FT 12 77 7WU 
(l) % Nf (rr) % N#7 # "To %o 'T 7J 14'h 7 ' % 
utet nr sjff ti^o fyrcrnfr % mm % Pur tPst 

JITTT Tit % ETUI 5f7 NT 7 TIEfdTfffFT fTTT t ; 

77:, 77, NET 7faf777 1952 # TFT 12# 

7T7F7 ( 1 ) TFT 5m #77# m 7TT7 7# f < T 
%J#7 ETTF' 7F7 JFTTF" % 77T7 NT NF U7TP' 
77PT7 # NTNJJNTT 7° 77° 7T° 3938 TFTN 22 
fm^F - , 1 9 62 if TTTIFT pTET'NpTT 77><T7 TP# 

t 

777 NfadNTT 7 ''NT#' # f % TEUTT T7 WTT 
(3) % EriET f777T7 ### % *717 T* fUTFTpST 
##*7 Tiff Nirniff, 7ET?7 — 

i[T» fUT>ff, 

JJTT N77 m'ffdTT 

CTET 7FF7 # F#T TTFElV faf7£7 

NTETITT 71 o #0 ifmFT, fVTT 777TT l” 

[TFT 12 ( l) %N7 (T) 97 ESft7 NFTfT N77 
777 TFT TTTfdfTF: 

[ffo #0 -22017/3/72- “[go "TTTo] 

#0 fr° TT, U4T v[fTT I 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 5th An guy l J 972 

S.O. 3299. — In exercise of the powets conferred by 
sub-sections (3) and (4f of section 5A of the Dock 
Workers (Regulation of Employmcnl > Act. I n 48 (9 ot 
1948), the Central Government heiJry appoints Shri 
S- Y. Ranade. as a member of te Bombay Dock La- 
bour Board vice Shri Govtnd II. Seth and makes the 
following further amendments in Uie notification of 
tile Government of India in the late Ministry of La- 
bour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of 


Labour and Employment) No. S.O. 582, dated the 9th 
February, 1967, namely:— 

In the said notification — 

(a) under the heading “Members representing the 
Central Government”, for item (1), the following item 
shall be substituted, namely: — 

"(1) Shri S. Y. Ranade, Chairman of the Board of 
Trustees of the Port of Bombay — Chairman.” 

(b) for paragraph 2, the following paragraph shall 
be substituted, namely: — 

“(2) The Central Government hereby nominates 
Shri S. Y. Ranade as Chairman of the said 
Board.” 

2 This notification shall be deemed to have come 
into force on the 26th May. 1972. 

[No. 51|5|68-Fac,II|P&D.] 
(*PT #t #7717 fTTET) 

7% ftssft, 5 THEN, 1972 

77 o Wo 3299. — YFF 'Fdf'EF ( fTTFET 77 
fTfuETT ) Nftjf7T7, 1948 (1948 77 9 ) # 7FT 5-71 
# 37TFT71 ( 3) NV ( 4 ) jffTT 7717 wf777f 77 77)7 
7F% grr sqpFTT ^dTjnrr # ^0 7 #° tete? 7?t 

Ttf^FT nyfo #7 % U7ET TT 7Rf£ TEE NT #£ % RTUT 
% jsq- it friwr 75T# | N> 7F"7 7F77T % VETJ7 NT, 
#7717 nY* 177# 77ETT (N7 7# #7717 f^TEl) # 
NFtrJJNTT 7TTT 77° Nl° 582 71#N 9 7F7#, 1967 % 
7# ET7 frFTf ffjTT ETTSPl 7F# SIT# : — 

1 “%#7 77TTT 77 TfTfdRTFl 7F# 71% ETFt” 
#‘777 % 7U747, 7^ ( 1 ) % fun; f7T7fNfg7r 
7T 77t 7f#7Tf77 fTTR OTTmtT j ^#7 ; — 

"(l) NT HNo 7#o Udri, 7TcT % 
NlfTlNUlST NNH7 

( 2 ) TTI 2 % f%7 fgT^fatfgrf <^T 1 NfiTPTlfm 
Ttiti N 7[7T, : — 

‘%#N 7T77T yfl rrrto Ttfo tri% # 
F7TTFTY77 #1 % NWTN % ^7 Jj 
7lf77 7F# t l” 

2, 7T TfST^NTT 2 6 Tf , 1 9 7 2 % NTT. ft 7T# NTTr# | 
[7WT 51/5/68— #7-2/#° # 0 ] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 29th June 1972 

S.O. 3300. — Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the management of . New 
Chirimiri Ponri Hill Colliery, Post Office Chjrimlri, 
District Snrguja (Madhya Pradesh), and their work- 
men in respect of the matters sp-ecifled in the Schedule 
hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 



45/8 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II* 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
|by clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Cen- 
tral Government hereby refers the said dispute tor 
adjudication to the Central Government Industrial 
Tribunal, Jabalpur, constituted under section 7 A of 
the said Act, 


Schedule 

“Whether the management of New Chirimiri Ponri 
Hill colliery. Post Office Chirimiri, District Surguja 
(Madhya Pradesh), was justified in laying off the 46 
workmen listed below from the 29th March, 1971 to 
the 3rd April, 1971, deducting 6 days wages and caus- 
ing break in service? If not, to what relief ar- the 
workmen entitled? 

1. Shri Jhir Punisa/Chupli CL 

2. Shri Ramdas/Sukdaa CL 

3. Shri Siv Pd/Dalloo CL 

4. Shri Siv Pd/Manglu CL 

5. Shri Jagmohan/Manglalsai CL 
6 Shri Babulal/Bhacakant CL 

7. Shri Biderli/Khudiram CL 

8. Shri Budhu bingn/lviuniram CL 

9. Shri Ranjit/Hannoo CL 

10. Shri Ramlal/Bhagat CL 

11. Shri Ramadar/Gancsh CL 

12. Shri Nanku/Jeodhan CL 

13. Shri Prem/Dukkiram CL 

14. Shri Makhan/Bandhu CL 

15. Shri Chamaru/Pavelram CL 

16. Shri Hariharasi/Khanchul CL 

17. Shri Lokeshr am/Kho du CL 

18. Shri Chatu/Bajrangi CL 

19. Shri Dadoo/Dadai CL 

20. Shri Buta/Seqdayal CL 

21. Shri Jagdeo/Raghubar CL 

22. Shri Bindeswar/Rama CL 

23. Shri Basali/Ramsai CL 

24. Shri Dcolal/Budhu CL 

25. Shri Nanku/Bhikhari CL 

26. Shri Charku/Kamod CL 

27. Shri Banhar/Kameswar CL 

28. Shri Gedaram/Bodal CL 

29. Shri Ramlakhan/Bandhu CL 

30. Shri Budhu/Thumoo CL 

31. Shri Alagram/Khuni CL 

32. Shri Lalman/Gohandal CL 

33. Shri Dukhan/Bodhan CL 

34. Shri Gajadhar/IIawala CL 

35. Shri Jagdhari/Dilhodh CD 

36. Shri Balku/Dilram CD 

37. Shri Sashi/Haru CD 

38. Shri Janak/Hari Pd. CD 

39. Shri Satrughana/Ram CD 

40. Shri Sankar/Hari Pd. CD 

41. Shri Gangaram/Budha CD 

42. Shri Parsu/Soma CD 

43. Shri Budhram/Nanki CD 

44. Shri Ram Singh /Subraj CD 
45 Shri Ramdas/Jagmohan CD 

46. Shri Moharsai/Samalsai D.C. Driller. 

[No. L/22011/6/72-LRII. 1 




fawft, 29 3rd, 1972 

mo 3300 . — TP RTTK Rif | 

fa rtttj mrjRt R fafafaR famf % tt} if m 
fafTfafT Ttfa fan Ttfmtft, TTTRT fRRT 

(rut sfa?r) % rtht rr R rtt'R faflRTt r}r rr% 

% Rfa TRE trWfe. fadTR fem t; 

RR: %nffa RTTTT RTT fdRTR To ^TWfafap 
% faR fatfaR TTRT RTSRtR RRRRt % ] 


RR:, RR, RtgtfRT fTRTR RfafaPT, 194 7 (l947 
TT 14) Tt RTCT 10 Tt RTRKT ( l) T R'T (r) STH 
RTH Rfafat TT RRtR TZR grr dTTTT mETRlTT 

RTR fdTTT Tt RTT R-RtPiRR Tt OTTT 7-T T RRtR Rfad 
T ? ?tR R^TR RtefffRT RfRTTR, RRRJR Tt -RRfRRTR 
% fRR faffad TTRt I I 




‘ TRt rJJ fRfrfhfr Tfaft fat TlfRRRt, RtTRp fafaffifV, 
fRRTHTJRT (RKT fad) ^ SPER RR TT, 
gRfaRfaTRR 16 T^TTCT Tt 2 9 TTR, 1971 
R 3 RIEL 1971 nT TIRTfal TTRT, 6 faff 
Tt RR^Rt TT7RT Rfa RTT^t ItRT RR TTRt ; RT- 
RtfRR Rt ? Rfc R^t, R't TifatR fad RRRtR % 
gTRTT I ? 


i. >!ft%r jirri/rirV 

ffto RH 

2- «fV W'lTR/’JTRTR 

RRtTR 

3. Rt fRR RRTR/SF^ 

TRtTT 

4. «ft fat RRTR/RIR 

RTTTR 

5. Rt ROBt^R/RRRTRRtf 

itsfrm 

6- RtREgHTH/RRlTFR 

RTtrn 

7. Rt faRRit/R/faiR 

TRRfi 

8 Jsfr^RfRR/R-’ftRTR 

T RtTCl 

9. Rt ^RTfa/gR^ 

RR1TR 

i o. Rt rrrtr/rtr] 

RHfai 

11. RtTlRRiT/Pfar 

TRtTt 

12. sRtRRT/RtRHR 

RRfal 

13. Rt TR/5Th)v.PT 

RRfa, 

1 1. R't RTRfR/RTJ 

TRtTT 

15. rT RRTT/T4TRR 

TRtTT 

16. °it rffaHRt/^RTR 

^Rtn 

17. ‘Sft HfaRHR/Rt* 


id. Rt mff / «i ji Tdt 

JTWtn 

19. Rt^/R^lf 

RRtTt 

2 0. Rt RTT/R TTRTR 

RRtTR 

2 ] . Rt RR^R/TTRt 

TRfTR 

2 2. Rt fa%R7-/HRT 

TRtTq 

2 3. Rt RTRERt/RTRRTf 

TRtTT 

24. Rt ^R RPR 

TRtTi. 

2 5. Rt RRT/TRWt 

RRtn 

2 6. Rf R^t/trY? 

RRlTT 

2 7. Rt RRfT/TT'tTT 

RTfTi 

28. Rt^hTTlT/ftTR 

TRtTR 

29. Rt TTRR'SR/^ 

TTtTR 

30. Rt RPR /RR 

TTthi 

3i. ’ftUR 

tP-ftTR 



Sec. 3 (i i) | 


32 tfr srrawf/fttffer 

33. ftft 

34. “-ft EWVT/Wuf 

35. >sft wrorft /feurftu 

3 6. ftV ^PFE/feruR 

37. 

38- P 4Y SFFE/fft- SRTTC 

39. “ft fl^W/TRT 

40. # ft4R/fft 5WP? 

41. «ft W7PT/TOT 

42. «?)■ or^/rfm 

4 3- ?ft RJTTE/fiURft 

44. «ft TUT fft^/tjSRR 

45. ftft TrH^nr/'fffTiTr?^ 

46. sfV EftfTETf/HTETOrf 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: 


?f[ 0 IT, 4 - o 

Eftfef 

mm 

(ft- €fo 

mm 

m'm 

mm 

mm 

mm 

Eftfer 

mm 

mm 

mm 

mm 


ftto ftfto fyw?;' 
[ft©TT m/220 1 1 / 6/ 7 2-IM°’T[To-2] 


OCTOBER 21, 1972/ AS VINA 29, 1894 


If not, to what relief are the workmen em- 
ployed by these Managing Contractors entitl- 
ed?” 

[NO. L/2012/74/72-DRII(i).] 

(m sftr <moh iwTr) 

Efer 

feftV, 26 ^TTf, 1972 

4Uo SUo 3302. — ETcT: ftrgftq- trorR 4ft TFT ^ fe 
?*lft T'114.3 SEJIjftft ft fftfftfe? fftqftf % soft ft EE# 
tot TO'tftft sr^j^r 5%gR, saw ftwr i, %4W 
topet 4ewt, feu % surt ft irrarar 

fftftfapfft ftk uu% sfnmftr % ftfe trqr fen* 

fWEET 

ftk jet: %Efftr tor 34rt ferrr 4 ft frorfftoftpr % 

fft*T ftrlftlcf 4TOT Efeffa TOlt | ; 


ftto TTO ■* if'iOO, tFR I 


CORRIGENDUM 
New Delhi, the 27th July 1972 

S.O. 3301. — In the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Labour and Rehabilitation 
(Departent of Labour and Employment) No. S.O. 3530, 
dated the 10th September, 1971 published at pages 
4965 to 4968 the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, 
Sub-section (ii), dated the 25th September, 1971 at 
page 4967, in line 32 for “Rs. 15”, Read “Rs. 155”, 

[No. 73/2/70-P&D.1 
V. SANKARALINGAM, Under Sccy. 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 
ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 26 th July 1972 

S.O. 3302. — Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the management of Messrs 
Geodetic Coal Company, Managing Contractors, Block 
No. 1 Kedla Colliery, Post Office Kedla, District Haza- 
ribagh, and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Cen- 
tral Government hereby refers the said dispute for 
adjudication to the Central Government Industrial 
Tribunal (No. 1), Dhanbad, constituted under section 
7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

"Whether the management of Messrs Geodetic 
Coal Company, Managing Contractors, Block 
No. 1 Kedla Colliery, Post Office Kedla, Dis- 
trict Hazaribagh, was justified in declaring 
general lay off without compensation at their 
mines from the 21st June, 1972 and then lock- 
out of their mines from the 25th June, 1972? 


*pt:, usr, uftftrffe fft*rrc lufufftEE, 1947 ( 1 947 4 U 

14) 4ft UKT 10 # 3WRT ( 1 ) % 4PR (u) gju TOU 

srfrorft 4ir trftftT TOft fu, irppn: rTO{:fRT uffr 

fftura 4ft eto ufftfeuT 4ft urn 7-41 % sqtfftr irfsu 
tfTim. ftteftffe wftpfuvr, (ftwr 1 ) we 4ft ^trRriwjpur 
41 ffttT fftffel 4TTift I I 


"wr ftuft nftrtfro 4ftu 4imftt, spree s%4tl 
WT 4? ftfi'IT 1, ftlPET Tftfelft, HT414T 4lWT, 
feu ^rrftgpi fnr mpft ?gpff ft 2 1 
1972 ft feu iJUTEft WET sfeft 4 ft 

fttuuT 4 tutt ftk fe: 25 ^4, 1972 ft 
srrftV i^prft 4ft dm Rift 4ft ftfeu 41T fen 
wet -ftrfttfftft m ? ufft e$t ftt ?u setoff 
sferfr iro feftfer towt fer mjftm 
% jufwr f ? ” 

[ft#u 1(14/20 12/7 4/7 2-tT?ronRo-2(i)] 

S.O. 3303. — Whereas by an order of the Government 
of India in the Ministry 0 f Labour and Rehabilitation 
(Department of Labour and Employment) No. L/2012/ 
74/72-LRH, dated the 26th July. 1972, an Industrial dis- 
pute between the employers in relation to the manage- 
ment of Messrs Geodetic Coal Company, Managing 
Contractors, Block No, 1 Kedla Colliery, Post Office 
Kedla, District Hazaribagh and their workmen has 
been referred to the Industrial Tribunal (No. 1), 
Dhanbad, for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (3) of section 10 of the Industrial Dis- 
putes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby prohibits the continuance of the lockout in the 
said establishment that is taking place. 

[No. L/2012/ 74/72-DRII(ii).] 
JCARNAIL SINGH, Under Secy. 



4580 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II — 


*P7o RTo 33 03- — RR: RTTR TOR % «TR iAT 

3R<PrR mim (m tfVr itaR Pdtrt) % sn^ir rot 

![R/2012/74/72-^Ho5nTo-2, 26^RT$, 1972 

TTTT 4r 4 SifrtfzR? OTRft, SOTR<F §%TO, *RiR7 tfOT 
1, *t>4H I ’FtfRRPt, RTTRT %?RT, PlRT ^5n*tRTR % m m r U 4 
?r TOTS vfh RR% T^iMTV % SpRltap qWrPEfT 

PlTO, RfsTTOR, (ROT l), RRRTR «fit OTR- 

PtfttR % p4t[ HtiRf RRT ^ ; 

5RT:, m, ifRllfW fRRT? RftrpRTR, 1947 ( 1947 
RR 14) RTTT 10 ^ RR-HTO ( 3) 3TTT RTO UpffiRf 
*PT RRtR TOft gH, %cfPr RTOTT R4R RTORT if R4R POTT 
% RRRR R (ft T?ft dTROT^ *T RTpt TOR tOTTfTTT 
RftrPra TRjft I r 

[ROT ITR/ 2012/74/72-HRoWRo 2(ii)] 
TO^T fRlJ, WRT RfaR 1 

MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT 
(Department of Internal Trade) 

Trade Marks 

New Delhi, the 28 th July 1072 

S.O. 3304. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 6 of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 
1968 (43 of 1958), the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendment to the notifi- 
cation of the Government of India in the late Ministry 
of Commerce and Industry No. S.O. 2601, dated the 
26th November, 1959, namely: — 

In the said notification, for the existing entry in 
the second column relating to the office of the Trade 
Marks Registry at Calcutta, the following entry shall 
be substituted, namely: — 

“The States of Assam, Bihar, Manipur, Meghalaya, 
Nagaland, Orissa. Tripura and West Bengal 
and the Union Territories of Andaman end 


Nicobar Islands. Arunachal Pradesh and Mizo- 
ram.” 

[No. F. 28(1) -I.T./TM/7 2. ] 
B. K. VERMA, Dy. Secy. 

rWtPef Ppmr RRRTR 
(RFRfTO OT4K PTRRT) 

«tott Pif 
PtU'ft, 28 1972 

TTo SRo 33 04. — OTRTT wYc RUR pEfflf uf&fRRR, 
1958 ( 1958 4R 43) «ftHTTT 5 TOT RTO RpRTRi RT RRRT 
TOft gu, %RpR RTOTT RTTR RTRTT % RTjaJ 

RTpTOT wYr RtfRl rfRTRR aft RpRJRRT Ro Rfo RTo 2601, 
25 RTOTT, 1 9 5 8 if fRRpTpJR rYc RRpJR TOUft 

Y, RRfa: — 

RRR flfmjRRT Jr, JR* RTFfl R RROTT fjRR 

STOTT Tf^ft % RTRplR IT ROT 5 T 

PraRTR SrfRfe % OTR RT pRRfRftrR 
Rpffci srfdTRrfqR jft RTmft, Rrfq;: — 

"R1RTR, fagTT, R%c, iTRRR, RlRT^vf, 
TftRT, PrjTT rY< TfsRtft RRIR TOR 
RRT ROTTTR 5ftT Pi 4^4 IT ftR RJJg, 
rtrtto sn&r d«rr PtrYttr % rr 

TT?R STR l” 

[Ro Rflo 26 ( 1 )-Rf^ ft/ft <JR/72] 
affo %o RRp RR RfEpf I 



[Part II — 


the Gazette of india; October 21, 1972/asvina 29, 1894 


4581 


(Indian Standard* Institution) 

New Delhi, the 8 th August 1972 

S. O, 3305. — In pursuance of sub-regulations (2) and (3) of regulation 3 of tha Indian Stndards Institution (Certification 
Marks) Regulations, 1955, as amended from time to time, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that the Indian Standards, 
particulars, of which are mentioned in the Schodula given hereafter, have baon established during the period 16 October to 31 
October, 1971 : 

The Schedule 


SI. 

No. 


_(D 


No, and Titla oi the Indian Standard 
Established 


No. and Title of the Indian 
Standard if any superseded by 
the new Indian Standard 


Brief Particulars 


(2) 


(3) 


(4) 


1. IS : 253 — 1970 Specification for edible 
commonnalt (Second Revision) 


2. IS : 364 — 1970 Specification for fanlight 
catch (Socond Revision ) 


IS : 834-- 1970 Specification for cotton 
yarn gray, for hosiary (First Revision ) 


(i) IS 2253—1964 Specification for 
edible common salt ( revised ) 

(ii) IS;i845~i96i Specification for 
common salt for butter and 
cheese industry 

(iiil IS 22035— 1961 Specification for 
troeflowing table salt 

IS: 364— .1962 Specification for 
fanlight catch ( revised ) 


This standard proscribes the requirements 
and the methods of sampling and teat 
tor edible common salt, free-flowing 
table salt and common salt for buttar 
and ohoeso industry (dairy salt). 

(Price Rs. 8 00) 


This standard lays down the requirements 
regarding material, dimensions, manu- 
facture and finish of fanlight catches 
commonly used on ventilatorsin buildings. 
(Price Rs. 2.50) 

IS: 834 —1967 Specification for This standard proscribes the requirement* 
cotton yarn, gray for hosiery, for grey cotton yarn of count range 8s to 8os 


(£4 to 'Max), used in hosiery. 


IS 2950-1970 Specification for water tender IS 1950— .1959 Specification for 
Typo B, for brigade use (First Revision) water tandar, typo B, for fire 

brigade use 


Prlco Rs. 2.50) 

This standard lays down the require- 
ments regarding matoria], design and 
conatruetion, workmanship and finish, 
accassories and equipment, and acceptance) 
teats of water tender type B, for fir* brigado 
use. 

(Prico Rs. 8.00) 


5. IS: 1341 — 1970 Specification for stoel but IS: 1341 — 1962 Specification for This standard lays down the requirements 
hinges (Second Revision) steel but hinges (revised) regarding materials, dimensions 

manufacture and finish of cold 
rolled mild steel butt hinges 
(Price Rs. 4.00) 


6. IS: 1480 — 1970 Specification for metric IS 11480 i960 Specification for This standard proscribes the requirements 
scales for general purposes (First Revision) metric scales tor general purposes forrigid and foldable metric scales, mado 

of wood or plastic materials, tor general 
purposes, It covers, and measuring as 
well as edge measuring scales. 

(Price Rs. 4 00) 


7. 


IS: 1495 — 1970 Specification for mild steel 
dust-bins (First Revision) 


IS : 1495 — 1959 Specification for This standard lays down the requirements 
mild steel dust-bins regarding material, size, shape and 

dimensions, manufaturc, workmanship 
and finish for mild stoel dust-bins. 

(Price Rs. 5 00) 


8. IS : 1538—1969 Speicfication for cast iron *IS: 1583 — 1960 Specification for This standard covers the requirements for 

fittingB for pressure pipes for water, gas cast iron fittings for pressure cast iron fitting for pressure pipes of 

and sewage ( First Revision) pipes lor water, gas and sewage water, gas and sewage. 

(Price Rs. 13-50) 

9. IS: 1732— 1971 Dimensions for round and IS: 1732 — 1961 Dimensions for This standard specifies dimensions, sectional 

square steef bars for structural and general round and square steel bars for areas and weights of hotrolled round and 

engineering purposes (First Revision) structural and general enginee- square steel bars for structural and general 

ring purposes engineering purposes. 

(Price Rs. 2- 00) 


10. 


IS: 1896 — 1970 Specification for picking 
sticks for overpick cotton looms (First 
Revision) 


IS: 1896 — 1961 Specification for 
picking arms (or sticks) for over- 
pick cotton looms 


This standard specifies the requirements 
of material, shape and dimentions work- 
manship and finish, etc. for picking sticks 
for overpick cotton looms. 

(Price Rs. 3-00) 


•For purposes of ISI Certification Marks scheme, IS: 1538 — 196a shall run concurrently with IS: 1538 — 1969 up to 31 Octo- 
ber, 1971. 




4582 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 , 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 [Part II— 

(1) (2) (3) (4) 


11. IS: 1978-1971 Specification for Line pipe IS : 1978-1961 Specification for line This standard covers the requirements for 

(First Revision ) pipe three grades of seamless and welded, 

standuid weight threaded pipe and plain- 
end steel pipes of standard weight, regular 
weight and extra strong, intended for use. 
in oil industry. 

(Price Rs. 9-50) 

12. IS: 2024-1970 Specification for silicoehromi- IS: 2024-1962 Specification for This standard coverb ihe requirements for 

um (First Revision ) silicochromiurn three grades of silico-chromium commonly 

used in the iron and steel industry, 
(Price Rs, 2 60) 


13. IS: 2324-1969 Gauging practice for ISO 
matric screw threads 


This standard deals with the gauging practice 
of ISO metric screw threads of diameter 
1 mm and above, 

(Price Rs. 1 1 - 00) 


14. IS: 2382-1970 Mounting dimensions of IS: 2382-1963 Recommended 

loudspeakers ( First Revision ) mounting dimensions of loud. 

speakers 


This standard lays down the mounting 
dimensions (size and disposition of fixing 
holes) for cone type moving coil (dynamic) 
loudspea,ers of direct radiator type having 
cones of circular and elliptical sections. 

(Price Rs. 2 00) 


13. IS: 2470 (Part ID-1971 Code of practice IS: 2470 (Part ID-1964 Code of This standard lays down the recommen da- 
for design and construction of septic practice for design and cons- tions for the design, layout construction and 

tanks truction of septic tanks Part maintenance of septic tanks and includes 

Part II large installations (First Revision) II large installation methods of treatment and disposal of 

tank effluent of domestic sewage. 

(Price Rs. 5'00) 

16. IS: 2619-1971 Specification for Glass IS:26i9“i9d3 Specification for This standard prescribes the requirement 

beakers (First Revision) glass beakers and the methods of sampling and test 

for glass beakers for laboratory use. 

(Price Rs. 2' 50) 

17. IS: 272Q-(Part V)-i970 Methods of test for IS: 2720 (Part V)-i965 Methods This standard lays down methods of test 

soils of test for soils j for the determination of the liquid limit 

and plastic limit of soils. 

Part V determination of liquid and plastic Part V Determination of liquid (Price Rs. 7-00) 
limits and plastic limits 

(First Revision)\ 

18. IS: 3109 (Part ID-1970 Specification for IS: 3109-1965 Specification for This standard covefs the requirements for 

round steel links chain (electric butt electrically welded steel chain, lighting chains, grade 40, accurately cali- 

welded), grade 40 short, link and pitched or cali- brated and polished for use as load chains 

Part II calibrated load chain for pulley brated grade 40, for lifting in pulley blocks, 

blocks and other lifting appliances purposes (Price Rs. 5 ■ 00) 

(First Revision) 


19. IS: 4400 (Part VIII)-i97o Methods of 
measurements of semiconductor devices 
Part VIII voltage regulator and voltage 
reference diodes 


20. IS: 5517-1969 Specification for steels for 
hardening and tempering 


21. IS: 5529-(Part D-1969 Code of practice for 
in situ permeability tcstB Part I tests 
in overburden. 


This standard covers methods of measure 
ments for semiconductor voltage regulato 
and voltage reference diodes for charac 
teristics covered by IS: 3700 (Part VIII)- 
197a. 

(Price Rs. 3 50) 

This standard covers the requirements for 
wrought unalloyed and alloyed steels 
in the form of billets and bars for forging 
and for general engineering purposes 
intended to be used in the hardened 
and tempered conditions. Requirements 
of steels intended for subsequent nitrid- 
ing are also covered by this standard. 

(Price Rs. 7-50) 

There are a number of methods of deter- 
mining field permeability in overburden; 
but this code includes only the 
methods mentioned below which are more 
commonly adopted for civil engineering 
purposes. 

(1) Pumping in TcstB (Gravity Feed in 
Drill Holes or Bore Holes) 

(a) Constant head method (cased well, 
open and test) 



SJc. 3lii) j 


tHE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4583 


(1) (2) (3) (4) 


(bj Falling head method (uncased wel 1) 
and 

(c) Slug method. 

(2) Pumping out tests 
(a) Unsteady state, 

(b) Steady state, and 
(c) Bailor method. 

(Price Rs. io- 00) 


22. IS : 5554-197Q Specification for lock washers 
with lug. 


23. IS: 5568-1970 Specification for tenons and 
cross-slots for tools with bore taper 1 530 


24. IS: 5169-1970 General plan of boundary 
dimensions for radial rolling bearings 


25. IS: 5692-1970 Tolerances for radial rolling 
bearings 


26. IS: 5724-1970 Methods of test for thermal 
insulating cements 


27. IS : 5761-1970 Specification for gold cyanide 
and gold potassium cyanide for 
electroplating. 


28. IS: 5805-1970 Specification for ball point 
pen ink 


29. IS: 5813-1970 Method for determination of 
crystallising point 


30. IS : 5817-1970 Code of practice for prepara- 
tion and use of lime pozzolana concrete in 
buildings and road 


31. IS : 5819-1970 Recommended short-circuit 
ratings of high voltage PVC cables 


32. IS : 584o(Part ID-1970 Dimensions of 
cathoderay tubes 
Part II bases 


This standard prescribes the requirements 
for lock washers with lug in the diametc 
range 3 to ioo mm.z 
(Price Rb. 3.00) 

Tins standard lays down dimensions for 

tenonj and cross-slots for tools with bore 

taper r 130. (Price Rs. 5 00) 

This standard specifies the requirements for 
general plan of boundary dimensions 
which affect the interchangeability of 
radial ball and roller bearings. Dimen- 
sions of snap rings and snap ringgrooves 
for bearings are also covered. 

(Price Rs. 8 ■ 50) 

This standard covers tolerances for radial 
ball and roller bearings with boundary 
dimensions conforming to IS: 5669-1970 
‘General plan of boundary dimensions 
for radial rolling bearings, 

(Price Rs. 5-50) 

This standard prescribes the methods of tCBt 
for thermal insulating cements. 

(Price Rs. 6’ 50) 

This standard prescribes the requirements 
and the methods of sampling and test 
for gold cyanide and gold potassium 
cyanide for electroplating. 

(Price Rs. 5 00) 

This standard prescribes the requirements 
and the methods of sampling and test 
for ball point pen ink used for filling 
cartridges of bail point pens. 

(Price Rs. 4 -00) 

This standard prescribes a method for the 
determination of cyBtallizing point int he 
range from about — 50" to about 250° C 

(Price Rs. 2-50) 

This code covers the preparation and use of 
lime pozzolana concrete, using lime 
pozzoJana mixture conforming to IS 
4098-1967 in building, road and runway 
construction works, such as levelling 
course in foundation, footing under 
masonry woIIb and columns, ordinary 
base concrete under floor, filling haunches 
over masonry arch, roof finish, fabrication 
of building blocks, road bases and bonded 
underlays. 

(Price Rs. 5 00) 

This standard covers therecommended 
short-circuit ratings of high voltage heavy 
duty PVC cables conforming to Is : 1554 
(Part II)-I970. 

(Price Rs. 5' 00) 

This standard lays down the dimension 
of bases used with cathode-ray tubes 
employed in oscilloscopes, television 
and radar. 

(Price Rs. 5-00) 



4584 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; OCTOBER 21, J972/ASV1NA 29, 1894 


[Part II— 


O) 


C 2 ) 


(3) 


( 4 ) 


33. IS : 5840 (Part III)-i970 Dimensions of 
cathode- ray tubes. 

Parr III EHT terminals 


34. IS : 5844-1970 Recommendations for 
hydrostatic stretch testing of compressed 
gas cylinders 


35. IS : 5845-1970 Code of practice for visual 
inspection of low pressure gas cylinders 


3 6 . IS : 5854-1970 Specification for Coal cutting 
tools, radial V — and FV-faced tungsten 
carbide tipped. 


37. IS : 5855-1970 Specification for coal cutting 
tools, parrot-beak. V-and FV-faced, tung- 
sten carbide tipped 


38. IS : 5856-1970 Specification for corrosion 
and heat-resisting chromium-nickle steel 
solidng welding rods and bare electrodes 


39. IS : 5858 (Part III)- 1970 Specification for 
accessories to mechanical ventilation sys- 
tems on board ships 
Part III control dapers 


40. IS : 5861-1970 Specification for jams jellies 
and marmalades 


41. IS : 5863 (Parr IV1970 Method for deter 
mination of maiathion residues 
Part I cereals and oilseeds 


42. IS : 5866-1970 Specification for chrome 
leatner for high altitude gloves 


This standardlaysdown the dimensions 
of EHT terminals for use with cathode-ray 
tubes employed in oscilloscopes, television 
and radar. 

(Price Rs, 3-00) 

This standard describes methods for the 
hydrostatic stretch testing of cylinders 
intended for the storage and transport 
of compressed gases. Two methods, 
namely, water jacket method and non- 
jacket method, have been covered. 

(Price Rs. 2 - 00) 

This standard covers equipment for the 
measurement of various external and 
internal defects by visual inspection 
and the limiting criteria for the accep- 
tance of low pressure gas cylinders on 
the basis of extent of defects revealed 
by visual inspection, 

(Price Rs. 2-50) 

This specification covers materials, dimen- 
sions finish and testing of coal cutting 
tools having radial, V-and FV-faced 
tungesten carbide tips which are held 
in tool holders by either a set screw 
or a quick release mechanism located 
in the holder. 

(Price Rs. 4 -00) 

This specification covers materials, di- 
mensions and finish of parrot-beak, coal 
cutting tools having V-and FV-faced 
tungsten carbide tips which are held 
in tool holders by cither a set Bcrcw or 
a quick release mechanism contained 
in the tool holder. 

(Price Rs. 3 ■ 50) 

This standard prescribes the requirements 
of solid filler rods and bare electrodes form 
welding corrosion and heat-resisting chro- 
mium nickel steels by inert-gas tungsten 
are welding (TIG) or gas metal arc welding 
(MIG) process, Tnc chemical com- 
position of filler rods and wires is also 
specified. 

(Price Rs, 4-00) 

This standard specifies the material and the 
dimensions for control dampers for use 
with mechanical ventilation systems on 
board ships. 

(Price Rs, 2-50) 

This srandard prescribes the requirements 
and the methods of sampling and test 
for jams, jellies and ma r malades. 

(Prj era. 4-00) 

This standard describes the method for 
estimating residues of maiathion [S-(i, 
2-d icar betnoxyethyl)-o, O-dimethyl 

dirbiophosphate] residue as Jow as 
o-2 ppm. in foodgrains, like wheat, 
rice, jowar, pulses, oilseeds, etc, 

(Price Rs. 2-50) 

This srandard prescribes the requirements 
method of sampling and test for ful 
chrome gloving leather, with waterproof 
treatment and is intended for the manu- 
facture of high altitude gloves. 

(Price Rs. 3- JO) 




S5c. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


(X) (2) 


(3) 


(4) 


43. 


IS : 5868-1969 
leather 


Method of sampling for 


Superseding sampling 
dures in : 

(i) IS : 582-1954 Methods of 
sampling and test for vege- 
table and chrome tanned 
leathers. 

(ii) IS : 1016-1956 Methods of 
sampling and test for oil samp- 
ling and test for oil tanned 

leathers. 


proce- This standard prescribes the methods of 
sampling for non- fabricated leather in 
the form of whole hides or skins, sides 
butts, bends, bellies or shoulders. 

( Price Rs. S'OO) 


44. IS : 5875-1970 Spec fication for open-deck 
scuppers 


45. IS : 5876-1970 Specification for hopper 
scuppers 


This standard specifies the material and 
dimensions for open-deck scuppers used 
for drainage on board ships. 

(Price Rs. 2-50) 

This standard specifies the material ard 
dimensions for hopper scuppers used 
for drainage on board ships. 

(Price Rs. 2-00) 


46. IS : 5878(Part II/Sec. I)-i970 Code of Prsct'ce 
for construction of tunnels Part II under- 
ground excavation in rock Section I 
drilling and blasting 


This standard deals with drilling and 
blasting for underground excavation of 
tunnels in rock. 

(Price Rs. 7-00) 


47. IS : 5903-1970 Recommendation for safety 
devices for gas cylinders 


48. *IS : 5907-1970 Specificati on for socket IS : 1836-1961 
reamers with morse taper shanks for reamers 


49. IS : 59x5-1970 Specification for single 
texture rubberized wiaterproof fabrics. 


50. *IS : 5918-1970 Specification for taper pin IS : 1836- 1961 
machine reamers reamers 


51. *IS : 5919-1970 Specification for machine do 

bridge reamers 


52. *IS : 5026-1970 Specification for shell do 

reamers 


53 IS: 5927-1970 Specification for reduction 
sleeves 7/24 tapers to mores tapers 


54 IS: 5928-1970 Specification for tangent 
clinometer 


This standard covers requirements for the 
design, construction, testing and certi- 
fication of safety devices for gas cylinder 

(Price Rs. 6-50) 

Specification This standard lays down the dimension 
and requirements for socket reamers 
with morse taper shanks. 

(Price Rs 3-00) 

This standard prescribes the requirements 
and methods of test for single texture 
rubberized waterproof fabrics for general 
purposes, and for making acid and alkali 
resistant aprons. 

(Price Rs. 7-50) 

Specification for This standard lays down the dimensions 
and requirements for machine reamers 
for taper pins conforming to IS : 2393- 
1963 ‘Specification for cylindrical and 
taper pins’. . 

(Price Rs. 3 00) 

This standard lays down the dimensions 
and requirements for machine bridge 
reamers. 

(Price Rs. 3-00) 

This standard lays down the dimensions 
and requirements for shell reamers with 
taper bore and crossslot -drive. 

(Price Rs, 3-00) 

This standard lays down the dimensions 
and requirements for reduction sleeves 
7/24 tapers to morse tapers for tools 
with tang and shanks Type A and tapped 
end shanks Type B. 

(Price Rs. 3-00) 

This standard deals with the requirements 
of tangent clinometers. 

(Price Rs. 2-50) 


*pv 7 troops of 1ST edification Marking Scheme. IS 5907-1970, IS : 5918-1970 IS : 5919-70 and IS , 5926-1970 shall 
come into fore wffh effect frgm xst February, 1972 and shall rqn concurrently with IS 1836-1961 uptQ3ist December, 1973. 


4586 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II— 


CD 


( 2 ) 


(3) 


(4) 


55 IS: 5950-1971 Specification for shot firing 
cables 


56 IS: 5951-1970 Methods for determination 
of colour fastness of textile materials to 
weathering by outdoor exposure 


57 IS: 5955-1970 Specification for tamarind 
concentrate 


58 IS: 5963-1971 Specification for knee joint 
without lock for steel orthopaedic calipers 


This standard covers dimensionsal end 
performance requirements and methods 
of test for shot firing cables of the follow- 
ing types: 

(a) Twin cables for single-shot firigng, 
and 

(b) Single-core and twin cable for multi- 
shot firing. 

(Price Rs. 3 '50) 

This standard prescribes two methods foi 
determination of colour fastness of textile 
materials of all kinds (cotton, wool, silk, 
etc.) to the action of weathering by out- 
door exposure. 

(Prcc Rs. 3-50) 

This standard prescribes the requhments 
and the methods of sampling and test 
for tamarind concentrate, 

(Price Re. 2.50) 

This standard lays down the dimensional 

and other requirements for knee joint 
without lock for steel orthopaedic 
caliperB. 

(Price Rs. 3-00) 


59 IS: 5964-1971 Specification for round spur 
for orthopaedic calipers 


60 IS: 59 6 5-l97 0 Specification for frame, 
rubber dam, dental 


61 IS: 5974-1970 Specification for devans and 
easy chairs 


62, IS : 5978-1970 Code of practice for design 
of wood poles for overhead power and 
telecommunication lines 


63, IS : 5980-1970 Specification for bench 
centres 


IS : 5993-197° Specification for Alumini- 
z;,i steel wire for telegraph and telephone 
purposes 


65. IS : 5996-1970 Specification for cotton 
belting ducks 


This standard lays down the dimensional 
and other requirements of round spurl 
for orthopaeidc calipers. 

(Price Rs. 3 00) 

This standard lays down the dimensions 
and other requirements for rubber don 
frame used in holding ruber dam in 
osition after ligatures and tooth clamps 
ave been adjusted. 

(Price Rs. 3 00) 

This standard rcferB to domestic ‘furniture 
and lays down requirements of materials 
and fixes the functional dimensions of 
divans and easy charis with and without 
arm rests. 

(Price Rs- 2-50) 

ThiB standard covers method of design of 
wood poles made of both broad-leaved 
and coniferous species of timber, 
grown in India suitable for carrying 
overhead electric power transmission lines, 
telephone and telegraph circuits both 
for solid and jointed wood poles. 

(Price Rs. 4' 00) 

This standard lays down the requirements 
of bench centres used for checking 
of run out, concentricity, etc, with 
heights of centres 125, 160 and 200 mm. 

(Price Rs. 5 00) 

This standard covers the requirements for 
round aluminized steel wire, suitable 
for use as : 

(a) telegraph and telephone line wires, 
and 

(b) binding and jointing wires for telegraph 
and telephone wires. 

(Price Rs. 3' 50) 

This standard prescribes requirements of 
cotton ducks used in the manufacture of 
conveyor, elevator and transmission belts. 

(Price Rs. 3 ■ 00) 


Supersedes design aspect given 
in Appendix E of IS : 876-1961 


Sec. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4587 


(i) 


(2) 


(3) 


(4) 


66. IS : 6008-1971 Specification for single op- 
erator ac/dc arc welding power source 


67. IS : 6009-1970 Method for evaluation of 
results of accelerated corrosion tests 


68. IS : 60101971 Recommended pratice for 
photographic processing in spectrochemi- 
cal analysis 


69. IS : 6011-1970 Specification for carbon 
steel tubes for use on board ships for 
presssre services 


70. IS : 6012-1970 Method for measurement 
of coating thickness by eddy current 


71. IS : 6014-1970 Specification for emulsifiable 
larvici lal oil, pyrethram based 


72 IS : 6019-1971 Specification for platinum 
dish 


73 IS :6o2t-i97i Specification for web-equip- 
mont and 6-6-mm eyolots, painted rim 
with or without washor 


74 IS : 6023-1970 Specification for reversible 
shovol 


75 IS : 6028-1971 Guide for storing ani 
transporting green bananas 


76 IS : 6030-1971 Specification for sodium 
propionate) food grade 


77 IS: 6032-1971 Specification for mackerel 
fresh 


This standard lays down the requirements 
and tests for single operator ac/dc arc 
welding power source incorporating solid 
state rectifiers and having drooping char- 
acteristics. 

(Price Rs. 5 ■ 00) 

This standard specifies a rating system 
that provides a means of defining levels 
of performance of coatings, other than 
those anodic to the basiB metal, that have 
been subjected to accelerated corrosion 
teBts. This method takes into account 
only corrosion of the basis metal. 

(Price Rs. 2' 00) 

This standard recommends practices that 
are generally followed for the processing 
of photographic plate6 and films 
used in spectrochemical analysis. 

(Price Rs. 4 00) 

This standard covers the requirements 
for welded and seamless carbon steel 
tubes for use on board ships for working 
pressure above 17-5 kgf./cm2. 

(Price Rs. 3' 50) 

This standard covers the use of eddy current 
instruments for the non-ciestrucdvr 
measurement of the thickness of ft non- 
conductive coating on a non-tnagnetic 
basis metal. 

(Price Rs. 2 ' 5a) 

This standard prescribes the requirements 
and the methods of tests for the emuT 
siflable larvicidal oil, pyretbrum based 
intended for se uas a larvicide for mos- 
quito abatement and control in breeding 
places like lakes, pools and other stag: a n t 
waters, marshes, etc. 

(Price Rs. 7-50) 

This standard covers the requirements foz 
purity, finish, design, capacity, dimensions 
and weight of platinum dishes (10 to 700 
ml ) used in laboratories. 

(Price Rs. i'50) 

This standard lays down the dimensions and 
requirments for web-cquipment and 6 ■ 6-mm 
eyclotg, painted rim with or wit (-out 
washer. 

(Price Rs. 5 - oo) 

This standard specifies the material and 
dimensions of the reversible shovel to ensure 

interchangeability. 

(Price Rs. 3 - 5°) 

This guide describes conditions for the suc- 
ces ful keeping, with or without airtclc 
cooling of green bananas, Musa sp, in the 
preclimacteric phase during storage 
before transport from the place of pro- 
duction to the place of consumption and 
during maritime transport. 

(Price Rs. 2 '50) 

This standard prescribes the requirement 
and the methods of test for sodium pro- 
pionate. 

(Price Rs. 3 -50) 

This standard prescribes the requirements 
and methods of sampling and test for fro sh 
mackorol (Rastrelliger sp.) 

(Price Rs. 2-50) 


4588 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 , 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 [Part ll— 


(I) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

78. 

IS : 6034-1971 Specification for edge typo 
vacuum filters 


This standard prescribes the rated output 
and other requirements of the edge-type- 
vacuum filters used for the purifica- 
tion and drying of ttran't; Ormer and 
switch oils keeping in view extreme vari- 
ation of climate conditions and altitude all 
overt Indiatl 
(Price Rs.2'50) 

79. 

IS 6035-1970 Spccificationfor zinc phos- 
phate dental cement. 

• - 

This standard prescribes the requirements 
and the methods of sampling and test for 
zinc phOBphato cement. 

(Price Rs. 5-50) 

80, 

IS : 6036-1970 Specification for alginate 
dontal impression material. 


This standard prescribes the requirement 
and the methods of sampling and test for 
dental impression material in powder 
from containing an alginate as the gel 
forming ingredient. 

(Price Rs. 5 ■ 00) 

81. 

IS : 6044 (Part I) — 1971 Code of practice 
for liquefied petroleum gas cylinder 
installations Part I commercial and 
industrial installations. 


This standard lays down the code of 
practice for theinst allationof LPG clinders 
vapour withdrawal only), piping and 
equipment in commercial and industrial 
ipremises. 

(Price Rs. 4 00) 

82. 

IS : 6047-1970 Specification for scouring 
powders. 

* 

This standard prescribes the requiremen 
and the methods of sampling and test fo 
scouring powders. 

(Price Rb. 2-50) 

83. 

IS : 6051- 1970 Code for designation of 
aluminium and its alloys, 


This codo prescribes method for designatin 
aluminium and its a 1 1 oys, namely, wrou 
aluminium alloys, alumini m (un-alloyed 
casting alloys, castings (un-alloyed), an 
primary ingots. 

(Price Rs. 3 • 50) 

84. 

IS : 6068-1970 Nomenclature of spinning 
machinery (preparatory to doubling ) — 
cotton system. 

* 

This standard covers nomenclature of spin 
ning machinery (preparatory to do ubl'ng 
— cotton system. 

(Price Rs, 3-00) 

85- 

IS : 6076-1971 Dimensions for vacuum 
flanges, 

* 

This standard specifies the dimensions for 
flanges and collars used in vacuum techno- 

lOgy. 

(Price Rs. 4-00) 

86. 

IS : 6095-1971 Specification for cans for 

35 mm motion picture films. 


This standard lays down the dimensions 
and othor requirements for cans used 
storageandtransitof35mmmotion picture 
films of 300 and 600 mm capacity. 

(Price Rs. 3-00) 

87. 

IS t 6097-1971 Dimensions for corc9 for 
motion picture and magnetic films. 


This standard lays down the dimensions of 
cores for the winding, storage and trans- 
port of motion picturo film, and perforated 
film with magnetic coating or striping of 
16, 35, 65 and 70 mm width. 

(Prico Rs. 3-00) 

88. 

IS 6099-1971 Specification for invalid wal- 
kers 


This standard lays down the dimontions 
and other requirements for invalid walkers. 
(Price Rs. 5-00) 


Copiesof these Indian Standards ate available fortsalc with the Indian Standards Institution, Manak Bhavan, 9 Bahadur Shah 
Zafar sMarg, NowDelhi-i and alsoits branch Oiflces at (i) 543 Sajar ValiahhaiPatelRoad, Bombay- 1, (ii) 5, Chowringhee Approach 
Road, Calcutta-13 (iii) 54 General Paltors aoad, Madra.s-2 (iv) 117/4x8 B, Sarvodaya Nagur, Kanpur, (v) 5-9-201/2, ChiragAli Latio 
Hyderabad-1, (vi) Sadhna, Nurmohamod Shaikh Marg, Kanpur, Ahlmodabad-i and (vii) F Block, Unity Bldg, Narasimbaraja Square 
Bangalore-2. 


[No. CMD/13-3] 


Sec. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, ,894 


4589 


( grafts frnrsfr %fit) 

Hi f%5%t, 8 ST^TRT, 1972 

390 ift ° 33 0 5. — 333-3773 3T 3%tf%3 9rTcff3 9T337 333T (33T33 f%^) P4pH3H 1955 % f%fd39 3 % 33- 

f%f%T 9 ( 2 ) sftr ( 3 ) % sfjhtc srrcfto 31937 333 irt wfa$f%3 fW 3r3T $ f% %t% % f%9 9T7%k 9199 % 

% $3*1% fa* ITT?: f , f%%rf%r f%q 9q f : — 

x^t 

wr fraffkr wccft-ii Trn=m 3% 993591 srk 9q 9 R<Jf9 73997 "gRi $q *rfsr^r f%R9 
9ft%97 9TT5ff9 97997 9l% $f, 9% hw'wu 

srk %t%97 

(1) (2) (3) (4) 

1 IS ; 253—1970 53%^% 3T«IR'9 97797 (l) IS: 253-1964 137% % m 9T997 % W99 »%T 9%R 3%9l % 

3% faftrfe 3TOR»7 5TRT 3% faftlfe ^PTRl % I^Dq ¥TraTT7ir 73n% % 

(yiPifeld ' 9IT% % ft% <143, did! <79 39+ 

(2) IS 1 1845-1961 W1 (%% TO) % fWT % stfefTTq 39T 

«fk 9%k 397t9 % f%q TTFJT- 9799% %% tfk 3% 44Pd9T 

vh 37737 +r twite tfmircr 9% 9t f i 

(3) IS: 2035-1961 un% % (ij^nto 8- 00) 
f%q f%% 3337 3% f%f%fe 

2 IS : 364-1970 ik-KIdt (^ddl^d) IS : 364-1962 S3 37337 if HO Rdf if %VM<l4f if 

% 37% ftrfaife (^ncr 39%- ( vhhkz ) % 1999% 3 % f%- % f%q (^hi^l) srm % 

OT) f%fe (39%f%9) 3F3l%rcr 3797%, 919, ycMKH wk 

f%f%T17%f999 if wmvt 7k $ I 
(ijw 7f ° 2. 50) 

3 IS : 834-1970 % f%q<|R9 IS : 834- 1 967 f|37% % f%q ?3 7TFT37 if $37% 33179 % 339t9 % 

079 3% fafnife (q^TT jtetWl) «fR9 ^ft 31% 3% faftlfe f%q 8 % 80 977%3 ( 74 % 7 i?99) 

337 % i|R9 g%t trnff % fwr if 
’7'kmf Pda1P<d 9% 9$ $ i 

(iJW^o 2. so) 

4 IS : 950-1970 5773731 if 399t9 % IS: 95 0- 1 95 9 49^% % 399t9 ^3 9T997 % 39+dT ifywT3 % f%q 

f%q 3T’ff % RTR dl^M %f 3% fdPiMp>d % Rll* 4Tdt % 90s <!, dl^H %f 1 Mcfl % "2 u ; sx 2T^T %f if 7771% dlfrff 
(T53T JTftOT) 3T97ft, f%3R3 931 f%Rlw, 34 %9% 

%k f%f%31, 9F9 33779 «fk 

tcrt% 1 % f%<w % srtwrq ?% $ i 

(7J3R HO 8. oo) 

5 IS : 1341-1970 3VTRT % SWT 37% IS : 1341—1962 ^3713% W T7F737 % 3%3 tfeld 7J5 ^3713 % 

+®4 ( J33 Jd'PfiHui ) H337T 31% 3733 (j3%f%3) S337T 3T% 37®3f % 57% % <1193%, 

313, 353133 33T f%f%3 % fW7 % 
3%S7T% ^ Hi % » 

(ifPTTlo 4. 00) 





4590 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II— 


(1) (2) (3) (4) 

6 IS: 1480-1970 ETE1>E TFTf % IS : 1480-1960 UltlM *EETEET E ETERI TTEf % EErft 

fEn; jftrPt 'Pete! qp faftrfe (e^et % farr jftefr Petet # fafafe m eto nmt % eP e ^ ei% 

■JEfiltfE) *flT 1JS% ET% Epfe pETEf % PfEE 

ff f^rsi Vr^n ^ i ite 

ETE4T E ft EIE% El% EET Wife 
ft EPFt El% pET% fair Et[ £ I 
(iJSE^o 4 . 00) 

W ETET jf JJ? SETTE % TSETET % 

etP Jr mrifr, eite, ew on ept, 
Tf'irarr, etCPiO eP? fafEE % 
Pm ir Eprnff 41 e$ $ i 

(iJPE 5»5. oo) 

8 *IS : 1538-1969 EE, EE EET EE IS: 1538—1960 EE, pE EET ^EETEEE EE^EEpTEEpREE 

PEETE % Pro; ®EEt El% % ETE WTT EE-fEETE % 3EET P E 3 EET Tt| % ETE ITTT % 

qft fefarET^f^fjrffcj (teet T;R>ee) tret % Pe4%e Pf fEMfe Pm e veete P^uffer lif 

i 

(w 13.50) 

9 IS : 1732-1971 ETEET EET ETEFE IS : 1732-1961 ET5RT EET *E ETE4? E EIEM ^aftPlEd 

SEtpTETf 4EEf % fET E>E EET Epfe ETEFE ^EffeRf ETEf E PET[ EET ETEET *EtPEET> «PTEf 

3RETE ^EfTET % ETE (l^ET JE- E>EEETEpEk T[ETTE Erf EfTET P ffedEE EET EE EpRTE 

T>EE ) % ETE ETE EET ePeR 1RTT E PP EfTET 

Ell EFT pEtlffer Pttt ETT $ | 
(jJFEEo 2. 00) 

10 IS: 1896-1970 ElETpEE E[Et EREp IS : 18 96-1961 EpET pEF T[eP ^E ETEE E EpETfEE? EREf % 

% Pee PtPee Pre (teet ^ePee) ereP % Pee Wee srnf (et fEE PiPee fWp e fwr e 

We ) eV PePftPt tee efeV eteeV, etwPe ePe 

EFT, ERPetT EET PfPeE ElfE 

$ Pete 3 e^tr Proffer 
itV e£ | i 
(*JRT Eo 3 . OO) 

11 IS: 1978-1971 ERE TREP E7p fepEpR IS : 1978-1961 ERE EREf ^E ETEE ftE EfflE E 

(E^ET fTTlEE) eV pEpEfe EETE E1EE ETT, fEEfEE 

erePtePt ee^eeVeeeP 

% ?ETTE % TT^ff % J|fe E 
ETETTT Ef EEf | | ^ EHfE 
EfEErf^E EpT EFITfrE, ETE47 
er % etVer ePt Ert pETf 
EI% ^ | I 
(^fEEo 9. 30) 

♦EREPe ETET EEET ( E E fuiE pE^) EtEET % pEO; IS : 1538-1960 31 E*f^ET 1 9 71 EV IS : 1 5 38- 1 969 
% ETE-ETE ET\ t|ET | 


7 IS : 14 95—19 70 iJE RETE % IS : 1 4 95- 1 95 9 IETTE % 
<0El Tp Plfilfe. (q^EI T'l €l^l u l ) 'gsqfEl fefwifW 




Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 4591 

(1) (2) (3) (4) 

12 IS : 2024-1970 fafaqrfaRtfajpT IS : 20 24- 1 96 2 fafak-^ifanm EFTC it HTURHW tfk 
fafafk (qprr Hurk e faq Oft v 

% fafHqfa’Ptfim % faqq e 
smnf fasrffkr qft qf f i 
(^rEE° 2. 00) 

heft t 1 fatVsrk i*r% tttt 

% stth qfat 5TTf irff wt 
^fWf % f*m ir eteh q^ffarf 
*rf t 1 

(iJFTlfo 11 . 00 ) 

14 IS : 2382-1970 HTHWlklTHqfaETqHjr IS : 2382-1963 HTHSkfaT IffT EFT^r t Tft^T tk SfSEFTT 

ete ( qprr qkkiH) HEk k f*n>Tft*f> *m *rj h»? qpkqq Tfkk eih 

HlE'St x fk X HEfa HiSTEEf I Eqq 
( irnf^r srk < 4 ,J h 4 %■ %■ 

st^it) fasrffkrfk? >jtt I | 
hefsteVett: 4141 srk 

eh win Efa {fi% | 1 
e° 2. 00) 

15 IS : 2470 (HIE 2 ) — 1 97 1 E^-Ek IS : 2470 ('ETE 2 ) - 1 964 H?- EFEE IT (tfcqr 

(tfkqr fk) k fj^ii ifk fkrW e«% (HfkE 2 t <) k famsE fqrf) wa fasmfH nk faEfa 

kkfHE%TTETE 2^fkqTFi (seet srk faEfa k flit kf^crr : wufi eteeIV faqqfkr 

JET^TH) ETE 2 E? ETETEE if | I ?S% "EfafkfH 

*H Ef-Ekf 4 EkpiElft % 
‘etett ?rk eh% fnkTE sffY eV 
seeiet k iTf | i 
(^Wl! 05.00) 

16 IS : 2619-1971 eth % tkkr k fa- IS : 2619-1963 *k % sfkkf ?e ere? t sjeHuimt e qqEfa 

fafk ( qf nr jktwH) " qft fafafk % fat qrfa % tfakr HfafaH 

wterfa srk eteeV k eet 
iftwH k Tafaqf faoffk 
apv nf | 1 
(^W?o 2. 50) 

17 IS : 2720 (HIE) 5-1970 Efa+fai IS: 2720 (HIE 5)-1965 ?tf ETEET t SE tk ERET *£t 

qt qffaH Tjffaff : ete 5 te srk EffapTEf qt Erkin q^fEEf : rfamft % ffarkn etetejV 

hieht k Tfarfar qrr hft faiakn 5 tk wht <p tfafar qfasrw q^fa^rt t! - qf | 1 

(q^HT jkkorr) qq fasrkq (ijw ^o 7.00) 


13 IS : 2 32 4- 1 9 69 WTf trff tt qkkV^fftf 
T> ETTO TSfa 


4592 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II — 


( 1 ) ( 2 ) 

18 IS:3109(«mT2)-T970 

# FfriV TErt 

) AT 40 

PrftTfe, 'frpT 2 PiOwm T*rr 

yAl^ % WW ETbRT % Pn[ 5151- 

pfifar '4iTn#r Pri%ffer 

19 IS:4400(‘4W 8)~1970 

r^MT?r-ti tuUdl IT *H4»i 

VTR 8 TlWT t^TTT sfhc qk-dd I 

tot wfrsr 

20 IS: 55 17- 196 9 ?frT 

% far # Prftrfte 


21 IS:5529(’*mr l)-1969 TC 

^TOrrTflwir i?t fl% *r%TT, 
«tet i srPron farPr Jr tOstot 


( 3 ) 

IS : 3 1 0 9 (ttPT 2 ) — 1 965 33ET % 
wiT % Ppt 4?t ePt 

Pm<?0 £RT ?TW- 

sifTfer srw *4d <uftfisr?r ( Prw ) 

(Pe-hI 3TTT ^ETfr) 40, 

qft farftrfte 


( 4 ) 

TETT if 40 W? 4TTt Pi 0 ®M I <(> cT4T 
SEE . 4T£pff % Pftr ^ ^fPT^frfsTfT 
umif Jr sTYarff ft ni f i 

(T?3T 5. oo) 


w eht Jr IS:370o (m 8)-i97oJr 

fer »ITT sftr 

«iVddi % twI srrpfnf % i5rar°ff % *rrrf 

Pwi 04T ^ i 

1ET EPEE Jf T 
farpETf Sr eht ^ ®rrsft spntff *t?t€ ^«tt 
tfl*fR ijiftfa’TO' 444? % Ptit Pe-R: 5ffT 
JrPrqrMnnl n^TEn* Jr <stc 
if ^PTEff^ dT*J1$fH7T"r TEiEtft 
tfr^Mf i 
(*j«njo 7 . oo) 

srPrmT qft fprPr if jfl% tk stt wtt Jmjr 4^ 
eT % sf> qraPnrt f SrpEi vr *ifpT if %t<t 
PftPtPsET Tg-pfOT ^ | 5ft Plfc'T 

?4l Pi4 0 TFl! % fw THTETTW Jr-HTTlf 

sndl ^ i 

( i ) tpt Jr TEft 4^ Et-iEifr tO-stt (%?r 

{%tt Jpr isfP' TE 15?f if iJE?474i 1 f a T 

5KT *TCPT ) 

(e) BiTEfV t^tRt (for mt $irt, 

Pf[^ ^TWT mOSPT) 

(u) ^ ^gpcw teP TaPr (Prrr ^ 
qKil ^5TT, ) wY<; 

( 2) TP1 Jr TFft TTr^% TJ^Flfr 
(4i) srfw: fwPr 
(^[) P«R:iY4Pr 
(^r) ^ T^rPr 

(iJ?3T io. oo) 

STTEEF Jr 3prifr Jt IOoPhPt^ ^84ET 
we top qnrcf ^ ?rwPsm 


22 IS:5554-1970 EERK 4TOT 

ftrftrfe 



Sec. 3(ii;] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 197 2/ AS VINA 29, 1894 


23 IS r 5 5 6 8 — 197 0 1*30 

Wt^Kt 9?t sfk HR i^Ht 

Fftfaforfe 

24 IS : 5 669- 1970 SRtH TtfRJT 

HHfRff % nrff ft hhtri 


25 IS. ‘569 2— 1970 srCt 3 ! TtfFFT 

imfoff insT'trY ee 

i£) 


26 IS:5 724-17 90Hmtlft?ftiV9ft 
TftOT 'TSfTFTf 

27 IS:5 761~1970 fa^Fft 5RI HETt 
T?FT % fair rVf-IIFRfT?* 5ik 
FTH-oV-Mw TTPElirr Tf fafirrfR 


28 IS: 5805-1 97 0Wm-cTT?H;fa'4ft 
9ft fqVlffcr 


29 IS: 58 13- 197 0 foWH+lO SIT 
fd'+MT 9ft TTf% 


30 IS :5817— 1970 ^4 1 Tcff *TK H?9if 
% 1%^ ^HT Tfrtfldidi THR 

9R?t HTT HWtH Tt -fttH Tlf|TTT 


?H RTTT if ^-FTTfH 1:30 TT?T iftsiRf 
9 ft ^FTt Vl i hi wNt % 414 ftf'J 9TE $ I 
(4R|T° 5, 00) 


RT 9 iH"t> if iff -Hit! *l f'll FT* I I "-I) fV^TRT 

HRE#t iSRRTTTr Tt | I RT RHt Tt srftr 


Titr Tt^R ®nrfRff 4?t 


4T som qwr | i RHif anfRff wr 
fR sftr ffh Itt % »srNt % rtt »ft f^ri; ntr 

|i 

(jjrq-Fo 8. 50) 


RTHERr tf IS: 5669- 1970 SRtT Ttf^TR 

d^f-Olf % HtOld J TFTt 9T O I H(’4 fTHTTH % 

sfjtt iitjifrrj o iht wT 'ii -Tih m h ssftr 'OtK 
aprfRTt HWEH if faatlTfl 9ft lit ?i 
(^r To 5. so) 

RTHH9?if crTTdEftTftiV^fwr ifTd«Pr 
TafdHt ffntfRT # 1T$ f I 
(i}W To 6. 50) 

RT 0 if fd 'I "if 5RT TPTt d<*l*t % 9?i} 9> 
Pi i) td u l HlFdUtS sftr 19 ,J I TVfWT TTR1- 
HT?? 4ft 3TFHft ?ET HHT ■VtSTH 9ft Ta ' PdT i' 
!fk StVlTt l%srffcr 9ft I I 
(ijFinSo 5 . 00 ) 

ri 4 if *6 if het ^rifd 9 ft •rtw^ft Jr 4 iff 
% 9 >ft srrit 9 iifl 1 h i iff it 4 i-d Pert stVitti 
sft"T dlHdl it^t iFTT WET 9?t M.afddf 
ffraffcr 4ft $ 1 

?H HFFF if HTRT -50° tfo H THTITT 
25 0° if o lio % ’fN f^RRERt SIT Aid 
TT% Tt Tt ^ | I 

Ho 2. 50) 


TEH H%E ir IS : 4098-1967 % 4FJ¥T 
TtdTFTFTT ffTTH TT 3THET TT% ^HR.ff, 
H?Tf sfV T|Rft % Tf? Hnff % fTHk-TFlf 
% fair TFT l ft?HtFTFTT TETfe TTR TTF 
TTHT TTifFr 9?t Tt1%jff ^t fFRIT WT | I 
?H fTHtT R? % WTFT ffkt if 44-FTTl<l 
?? TFT, fTHlf 9T# Ttsrrff sftr qr*ft 



4594 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


tPART 11 — 


(1) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


31. IS:5819-1970 T^T TtTTTr "ft ift Tt 

Tt-tI Tf Ft'EtFotT surc-Tfe: 

Fftr 


32. IS : 5 840 (TTT 2 ) — 1 9 7 0 TRlT- 
fwr-S jpf % TFT TPT 2 TIHTR 


33. IS : 5840(TF13)-1970 

foRT RJTT % TFT TTT 3 I TT €t 

sfrnrr 

34. IS : 5844-1970 TTftfirT *tr 

'Ft JT -RtFcFT frmT 
'Tft*TT TKFSft fTTlPrsT 


35. IS : 5845-1970TRTTR TTFo^sF)' 
Tt TOT fMtWT ^t ftfTT T%TT 


36. IS : 5854-1970^ sftT 1*6 ?ft 
’jn tt% +i«ni« Tit 'flti 
tt Trim 4ii<i^ % Ttnrt vt frftrffe 


TT TTSTR #TK TTTT, TFT ^ fft% TTTTTT 

twr ttR ^tt, frrrf % TTRTTt % ttt 

5?5f Tit TTTf ^TT, m # PtFrT, I THd l ' it 
TF% TFT Ttrt Tt TTFf, TIT % fro T'T'?- 
7RR Trf TcHJ ^TT, IcTifa TfI Witt i|| 

(tRT To 5. 00) 

ITT TTTT ir IS : 1554 (TTT2)-1970 % 
5FJTT TTTt TTTf TFT TTRTr ft lift Tft %TTf 
47 TR-tFcT tfert % F7T7 it foFEtFw it 
Tff I 

(iJTT To 5.00) 

IT TFT7> it tTtTTFttT , £TRTT ?fk TRR 
if 5FJ77 ^TR-Ftt! TT7T it 777 TFT 
TTTTTf % TFT TIT | | 

(jJRT To 5. 00) 

ITT TTTT it TRTTFTTf , £7^7 tIt TT7R 
if T>JI7 ^TR-FcTT TTJsff it 77% TIT 
I tTT ft iffTTTt % TF7 fWffCT F TF 7F | | 
(iJRT ^o 3.00) 

r IT 7T77 if T<ftFfT TT T77 Tft; TT% 
Tfcrgr % ttt tt% teT FtT-sFi % sr- 
t^Fft Ft ttt TrtaFT ’TTFat T.’sfrrf 
Tt Tf I I TT TTTT if Ft T^FttI TTT?T, 
tw ttFt tti tTRftr t^tRt tV 7f 

S i 

(iJTT To 2. 00) 

IT TT7T it TTT TFT TT FtT^r! % TTT TITfCt 
tUt TtTRt Ttrt lift 7FT% TTT 777% 7TT ^ <,'i 
TRTff TTftfTTf TT 4 CJ|4 it TTjtflucl 
7WTT 7% fTTT TTT | I IT IWT 3071 
%TT 7SJ it %(77R T5 7T7T TTTT | Ff> TW 
F'fTT TftTT <T4? | I 
(ipT To 2. 50) 

IT TH*F it TTtT ^t ?TtT THE Tt IJTT ^ TTot 
TRT TTirflT ift TFT Tit TttTTT TTS^ % 
mVju Ft if TT% TFift TTTTft, TFT, FtFtT 
TTT Tft5TT Ftit TFT | I i- TtTR ftm 
it tt Tt Frrt qfT sttt tttt Ffrft Rrt if 

Rift TtET ilTi' TTTft ^FfT ITTT TT ^ | | 
(iJTT To 4. 00) 


Sec. 3 (li 1 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 4595 



37. IS : 5855-1970 TFf off ■*ffa JJET 
iTHi 3f ijf TT% 

Off TBp EFT flWT % sflWTTf 0?f 

fafnfe i 


38. IS: 585 6-1970 WITT Slk flTTntrff 
^PITI 'ft nfcfn % 

friT m m nk >^r n%njk off faftrfe i 


39. IS : 5858('4FT3)-1970 ^FTTHf 
if Erfkf onidH" TOTfnrnf % 6?,inT 
nftf orffnffrfk hfi 3 arm ftnom i 


<0. IS : 5861-1970 RIW, 
^immi 'iff ftforfk i 


41 IS : 5863 (nm l) — 1970 
ETHifanfa % nnfwnir strt 
011% «|Ff HFI 1 liTai^T 


42 IS : 5 866-1970 Wlkff 3TT% 

’imFff % f%^ offn nnf oft 
fofWk I 


w ftfirfk % dtif off Tki ^nr 2ff n’lr nn 
€f ^i%" orok^ off nfa ott oflw 
onzif % srforrrf % ?rn% omf irwtff, hit, 
fafnor cwt iftsm fnrr nrr S i if (ffnr 
^rifor nffrifr 3kirmr nwfrtff 
if opff offs - orff qlod aro 
f i 

(ijon n° 3. so) 

EFTT ir WiTTOT «fk cTTT nfsff ^nf%Wn- 
fn%*r ?6Tidi' off nf%3i4rr^n nr^f^pr 
smr^ htj, srrof $f?sn fnfBFrf am ofkn 
fo4 on% $ f%ir spjonr 5f n grr oof nk »|% 
*%o?fVf % ffm if nkroi' nf nt 1 1 gror 
Bfr ’cffr mrf off wrfnn tttt %f fntrffkr 
off of % \ 

(jj^T no 4. oo) 

nit EFTT if OFTOTOf if ?Pff EOff’ff TTOTcFT 
H'j) i Ram if mo *n% ot% spirt fnw^pnf if 
om% orff m o foot emr dnnkff nTifnlnw 
ton? orj ^ i 
no 2 . so) 

EFTT if *jwr, nk woof it 
Ewfaw skmrn; ofk ^wnf %% nnr qrfgm 
off quRErr nf of $ i 
(ij?n n. 4. oo) 


W nwor if n$, om, oqm, nrkf, ffr^nf, 
Vnrfn nrromf if 0,2 irfo w nrrar^ 
wm anr ETHrfnofn [tHT ( 1 , 2 - 



oft nren !mr Tkf off ouffr af n£ $ 1 
(*jnn no 2 . 50 ) 


kt nrao? if fan ijn n?m% 

nrn% % yjfn: offn nrf % fwr if 
or^toro; 5fk nrn^ff %% nnr qffnm 
^f t^Pcett ^f nf | 1 n? nnsT 
wremff on otte suit m% nnr% 
% ffWT | 1 

(n?n no 3. 50 ) 



4596 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 [Part U~ 


(1) ( 2 ) 

(3) 

(4) 

43 IS: 5868-1969 TO? # TOFff 

SB - TOFF STTT fTO-TprlTO TOTFf 

?TT TOFF Jr 'JTf TOT, TO7T, 5?§, Tt?, ^ 

TO ^ TdT 

if tt aif TOFft %% Tf farfrof 

WT TTST TOfr 5TOF? TO? ^ TOFft 


TT FrfilTTOT 5?TT t : 

J|iT TOfoTT ft Ft | 1 


(l) IS : 582-1954 ddWfa 
sffT "SPtTT 5Rf TOpr TO? 

srmrfY ^ tot TfrsTT 

(ajTO IFo 5.00) 


I 

( 2 ) IS: 1016-1956 




FTO* TO T?t TOFtf %% TOT 
qtfero TsfrFiT 1 


44 

IS: 5875-1970 l^T ft' *TTT 

— 

w toff Jr TTTR’f Jr to from % faf 


Tm% (fftf) fifOTfe 


fet if ’trrJt an% ^ 1? tot qrrRft 
Jr to^ TOfr toftT tot tot fauffTtf 
fdi'O’ Ff ^ 1 
(iJptT Fo 2, 50) 

45 

IS: 5876-1970 ^TTF TOTOTt 

— 

?TT TOTF Jr TOTOTf if TO FdFlO' % fa? 


fafarfe 


tot if tot sjm TOTfaf if tttot 

TOfr TOroff tot tot frorfffa fa? jut 
1 ' 

(fTO Fo 2 . 00) 

46 

IS: 5 878 (TOT 2/TOWP |) — 

— 

W toto if ^rjR-f if fit Trot ^ fa? 


1970 fit TOit Ft tffir 


ajfroTO ir TOrfarar tErr-rot 


tf^Tr tot 2 r-toT Jr ffw 


tot toto ir tst* % totot ir faror 


?fjwt 1 tro FTf ?Ar 


faro tott ^ 1 


<*( # 3^HT j 


(ipiT Eo 7. 00 ) 

47 

IS : 5903-1970 t*T fain s if % 

• — 

^r eett if far if snrJr en% 


TOFT TOFff TOTOft %97rfT?f 


Tdir Trarf ^ fwnrr, fTETT, TCt^rr 
?f[T TOW TOWr WiTSTTli Ef | | 
(ij^r ^0 6. 50 ) 

48 

*IS : 5907-1970 TOf TITT^T 

IS : 1836-1961 tlTif aft 

V* TErT if J-M TIT9TT BTTf Wl% ET%3 


ttrof ^r 

farfwfe 

Rff % tot ott 5ri-^w, frorffro Tt 


ftfirrfe 


Ef f 1 

(TRT Eo 3 . 00 ) 

49 

IS : 5915-1970 ?Wft ^TOTT 

— 

TOFF if TOTOTTFff % fi(T[ ?f\T SfTK 


afi% 7T? TT*T TO'-*' T?f 

aro tot srfd irtff % tot 


farfVfe 


arrir totsth' % 

thto Trt % fspro if sr^smi ^rro 
tOto TOfTOt frorffro art | 1 

(apar Fo 7. 50) 


*«TTo. TOo r «TT 5PTFFT JJfT qtTOT ^ fTO* IS : 5907 - 1970 , 1 TOTft, 1972 ir TOT^T TOfTO sftr IS: 1836-1961 
$ TOT 3l\<TI^T 197 2 cFF | 



Sec. 3 (ni] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4597 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


50 *IS : 5918-1970 fTf^TT fqf IS : 1836-1961 
frffi wftf tt*Rf fit fafsrfe 


51 '"IS : 5919-1970 Wpft faff 

frwt fit PrforPe 

52 *IS : 5926-1970 ifaTfftwf fit 

Prfwffe: 


53 IS : 5927 - 1970 , 7/24 fTffT 

?T TTtrf ^ sfT?% an% 
^ftr 'fit PrPrrfe 


54 IS : 5928-1970 FEft ^sftf 

sror orft fit ftfrc 

55 IS : 5950-1 971 fawt? % PfE 

fTJfTT fit ftfw 


56 IS: 5951-1970 flff! St 

TST fR 4IW<W*iW WSTT R 

'O 

TTTRfft % RT f>T Tf- 
fTTFT pFM<ii) fit f^pFft 

57 IS: 5955-1970 W^ft % RT 

fit ffrftpss 


fElff fit f H RTW Jr IS: 2 393-1963 'fERTflR 

FT 4 T nFFjR fTET fit ffiftlfe’ % 5 FT¥T 

WEpT PHt % RfMtwf % TFREll 
Sr ett cwr fPtsTF/ PtPwtt fit ft | i 
(WTTTo 3 . oo) 

^ R 7 W it WEft firff fErff % BTT ET*rr 
frtsnrt Prsrtfw ?t ii^| i 
(tJRT Tso 3 . OO) 

*nw Sr fTf^r fi% rtt srR-fR 
■Sltf (IRT REET fT 4 ¥h?T tlH <1 % fR 
cTfr frtefTR PpjffRr fit ft t i 
(RRr f)o 3 . oo) 

W TOT Sr =f WR ErrSt fNr TRI 
fftr hSt firct f r 5 r sNr ctr tt frrSr 
fftfRI % fSpr 7/24 OTT Sr t<Rf 
fit ffWSr fiSr Rftf % Per Sr ett tett 
fTitW 7 tt *Tt | I 
(BRT X° 3 . 00 ) 

rt wr n Rt tuftr wficiTRT'fr % fwr 

it srtorrtt tt *it t i 

(^RT X° 2 . 50 ) 

iter: Sr ffRTi % Po 7 TEJET Pi H Pi Pad 
wr $ %arfff % fw Sr rtr cpfT fftwrr 

BREtft *RWTp rPTT fttSPT TSPnrt tt 

ft % : 

( f> ) TR PrFT?R % Pin iff, TT*T T 
(tj) fptfr ffwR 3 r Put Wf^t f?R fi% 
srk ttsR%^Ff 
(TJRr ^0 3 . 5 o) j 

■HMf> Sf ( gfft , Sift , Rift , STlft ) tfTT- 
2 RTr ttetPrI fit ^r Sr vs wx fEjWRftf 
srrenr $ rt tt wni PreiS) fit ft 
44 Piot PmtfRi fit ft t i 

(IJRT ^0 3 . 50 ) 

fn wet Sr ^ft % rct % fwr Sr w^fTR j 
armt SritTRTffr^fitM^PiftPratfRr 

fit ft t I 


(ifiriso 2.50) 

*^0 TITo fTfr MRIf-T IJ^T ^ Pftr IS: 5918 - 1970 , ‘IS: 5919-1970 ?fk IS: 5926 - 1970 , 1 9 >"<fO, 

1 972 St fim tt fftT IS: 1836-1961 % TTPf 31 fRERT, 1972 W fTT 1 ^ 7 ^*f I 



58 IS: 5963—1971 ?RTH % flW- 
HiRTT IRf-fa %■ 1 %tt 1w 
HT% HT r t i'^'TT '■■fl? ®ff fa ftl Ri 


59 IS: 5964-1971 fa+dfatfl 

‘f % fTTtr 1 H ~1 tM <. 
farftife 

60 IS: 5965-1970 ^tcT ^ TH* 

$h % tfn fafirrfe 


#1 IS; 5974-1970 tffaTH *ffa 
wrth jfJm’f ^ RlRlPv. 


V* hfw ^mr % froror 'f.faml % 

% Pro fan d(?f HI Jf <t<sd i ^ffa I fiRH 
Jr HTT d-t-nift d*tl Vi r V W^fSTT^ fawffad 
qff nf $ i 

(jj^r 3. 05) 

rt hfrt Jr fa»Hfa ~ d i iftfarqtf % fJrcr rffa 
rr % fwr Jr w iRRift rm *rt 

srJRffPt firoiffR tff *r£ ? i 
(^ 15° 3. oo) 

hfr Jf fifa'R ^t?r % qnterf Jr 
diHfaw ^Rr % 4 i^ rtt ^ *rr 
fj«rfer Jr TTgJr % far^ wr Jf srRt 
hr % fim Jr hr hht urt «fonrf sfr 
iftnif | i 
(iJOT H° 3 . oo) 

htrt HRjRffaR Sr H^rfan $ sffa RrJf 
tfaTHt ’-R <. ^fn-q iofl ?m faRT 
HTvft MRTH $1wf Jf H^Ff ^Ttfr 
nrqifr rrnFiff wtsmt tf n$ % hht 
hh% hr Jr hfJ htJt hr <fr ftrfw 
fer HT( $ | 

(jJRT *° 2 . 50 ) 


62 IS: 5978-1970 ftRhfJ w: w HPR Jf IS: 876-1961 % W HTHH Jf ftRWft FTR HTRTf, 

*fk jrrtr htrtT % faR 'rfrRrfe * Jf fo* hr fVyrrr sMWtH tffc hr % mRmhI % faiR 

v '/ <->ft q5t fa'll I vi Hit di-q r <ft HIST HT HftrHHW fa>qi d M ^<td aid Htr sffa <?fJt ”1 + fl % HRHf % 

ttfrr #%rr hr $ i Hit Jf ftjiR Tsfant iff nt ? i ^ 

tsr if hW T?ff tffHRt tffaf smr 
% W H?f Wff Jr HHTR ht% 1 1 

(RRT H° 4 . oo) 

63 IS: 5980-1970 ^f - HTHHT Jf 1 2 5, 1 60 HfT 200 

Rffarfe: %% 7 jf hi% % fHHH Jf Htwrq; 

Rmfftrr qff qf 1 1 ^ 

tftr iRTlHTTr, ^ruTfa *f?r hth Jr w*r 

Hid ^ I 

(HRT 5. 00) 


64 IS: 5993-1970 HR sftT tijftHiRT 
^FTTH %_dl<jf ^ff fa fai Rd 

iSJ 


RT HPR jf fan fal fid d ITpff Jf 13MH>r 

% faHH Jf sRrSTnj Rmffad qff Hl| I : 
(*p) HR HHT S'R'Rld HTRTf % HR % 
fJnr, HHT 

( 5 T ) HR HHT 2 <rfi , flln diCl ¥t <Ib^ HTh 

Hfat % hrT % farir i 

(^JRT 3 , 50 ) 


Sue. 3 (,’i > ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASV1NA 29, 1894 


4 5 9 


(l) (2) 


(3) 


(4) 


65 IS : 5996-1970"^t£ 4ETif % 
grt Tf? 4ft frftrfe 


66 IS : 6008-1971 ^ VW\i{ 
arr%' , tfo^o/^'o *fro ETtf tfkE 
% titz 5rj7f 4ff frftrfe 


67 IS : 6009—1970 WtRt 

ktSTEt if 'TfO’TW TTSr% 4 ft 
'Fafr 


68 IS ; 6010-1971 TE7E~ 

fTT fTUTTT if Tldlyret ETT 

4ft ffmfkft frRt 


69 IS : 6011-1970 ETETEEf % 
f r T 1 * TTT i *iY if TTE V | -t E i Tt 
Tt ERtEf tT 

faftirfe 


70 IS : 6012-1970EET!Jra JPT 
J|T spt Ekf RtETWt 4?t 
'nrRr 


71 IS : 6014-1970 'ET^HT ft 
eY H'raTTPfRJ WEBeRt kt 
4ft fEfarfk 


EE ETBET if WE, BET EET$H 

, sHI'i % Rl^ H^*K1 ^Jtft 43F % fBEE 
Jr Ekrrq fEEffett 4?t *ti & i 
(*J7rE Eo 3. oo) 

EE ■Hi'l'ti Jr T^F *tU4^.dT Bt% k 

ee£ kkE^BtETEttEii ErJJf Ekm* 
*fk kkrE fer ETT £ I ^BE RTEBE % 
ect mJr ktr RbRt % VfiHw?; tft 

$ i 

(*£7E Eo 5. oo) 

EE TRT Jf BTOK tfnj <TT BERT *ttt R 
<rttw7r % B*ftB rnrt^Y wrf % 
’M td fERT w4 JRtt Bit 4>l i ?Hd | 5l 4ft 
'•ifTVTTTiT kr Jr rtrRhb JfeB BBRsft 
fJraffJcr «ift b£ $ i w bsRt if %w 
wrram; % ?ftsm 4ft $r wr-r Jr twt 

BBT t I 
(iJEEEo 2. 00) 

EE RTE"F Jf TRTRfRT Rr?Jm Jf 
tot ete TPfft qfte Y fli4f r cJrsY wk 
RfieBf % ETE % RflJ RFTEB EkJt 
5PJ4T YtRTBf Tt ftTOrfkf eY Rf $ | 
(ijrB Ro 4. oo) 

5E RTE4T if 1 7 . 5 for o tIT° EE H'Rl BE 
fktBkr % TTRBlTf ETE RT 'JI'IMm'T 
Jf 4>lB ElY ETBt BBT EtBR 

Tff<B WT EEttE iff Tfwff ^ fwi Jf 
«rkn^ fr ex 5 i 

(JJPE Eo 3. 50) 

ETE47 Jf fTtft ETtJTT ET§ 

TT EETOT %qr Tt EteRf eet ETTT 
Tfa % TTTTO {TRJ EET TTE tY ETTiTPfr 
ETFT TSfA TT RrETE fTTT EET ^ I 
(^?E E° 2 . 50) 

EFTT Jf TTT=rjE E E% TTTETfT EWT- 
BTSEt' kt % fWT Jf RktWE EYc 
qrfwiT TORtrt «fV e$ | i e? 
e^brY % Rnrpfr % Rri? EET btRt 
ETHTE Ek EtYV eJ E1% E^T 

^Jt ?Y Esrr % fetet if Epa Kin ro 

% jf Rl^EE % Rn£ TTE jf ETET 

I 

(iJ^EEf 7. 50) 



4600 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II— 


(l) (2) (3) (4) 


72 IS : 6 019-1971 cfrfTRR rottT 
sffV 


73 IS : 6021-1971 ROTR OT% 

ottot Pott rtrt rt% twit 
Pot OTR RR-RffOTTRR REOT 
ifhc 6,6 PotV rot* rP 
fTMci 

74 IS : 6023-1970 : Hc^fnTofprr RT% 

TrtPrfRpT 


75 IS : 6028-1971 %RT % 
fiTOf RtT TpROTOT Tit RT*f- 
Rfwr 


76 IS : 6030-1971 OTOT 4otV % 
OTfOTR OTfqOTfT farfrrfe: 


77 IS : 6032-1971 RTR*t ^RTpR 

rjV fafirfe 


7 8 IS : 6 034-1971 pFArtOTT 
fAATR [TROT fApApT 


7 9 IS : 60 35—1 97 0 TART TOT'+A 
$r tfttfa =rr fafoifr 


^T RETT ft RRtWTRWf ft OTR RTf OT<lt 
^pOTR Rrt RSRffOT (lO ft 700 
Pro %o Rmt) % Potr it 

PfPrr, Protot, RRif, tit tflr Rto 

OTOTRt 5TT5TTT Rt *Tf % I 
(*jTRRo 1 , 50 ) 

W ROTT if ROTT OT% ROTOT PART WR 
Rrfr trait Pot Apt AA-tfRAART OTTft 
rPt 6. 6 PrrI riot % Pott ft rot 
tot R%n? PrsrtftA otV »rf f i 

(*JOT T° 5,00) 

SR RTOTR ft TOTiOTrftA OTAt (OTAR) Tt 
fApTRA AtOT AApt 4?t RpR ft TR TT 
ROTt OT'ft TOTlft rYt ROT PmfpOT 
fT(T Rtr ^ | 

(j^cOTRo 3.50) 

?R ROTApROT R %tff % TOTTAR 
ROTR ft TR% RTTR % r T 1 1 1 TT T^OTt 
ft T^fr ROTfOTR % RRR ROT OTJR ft 
TpTAfA % RRR OTlOTRt 3TR T^REt 
Tt OTATOT ^Pt TT OTTOT R ?Pt TT 
TROT RVOTRT^AT Rt Wt RTROTt 
ffRpTOT ARlf Af | I 

(iJOT R° 2 , 5 0 ) 

?R RTRT ft RTTT RAt % RtflRR OTffRtfT 
ft ROTpRA ROTATE ROT RTtSiTR TfffAAt 
Rt R$ f I 
(iJOT R° 3 . 50 ) 

*R RTRT ft RlOTt RTTR ( pTAT TATCft) 
%■ PARA ft RfOTir RpT RIRRt fpt ROT 
tO<RR Tt TJpRAt PraffTR Tt Rp fl 
(^OT Ro 2 . 50) 

ST OTAR T pR ACT APp PAATA pOTOTt % 
PARA A tpRA pR3A TcTTAA ROT ROT 

<9 

TpAOT faafpOT R7t T# f I f pR’RT 

^tfOTlTT Rtc f^RR ROT Tt, RTTR R 
shot rrot^; OTOTsrt rttTrt tfRpfOT 
ROT PlfOTT -3OT CTRt Tt fOTR R TOT 
RT R; r fTR RT1 TROT R J TT# % TrR R 
Rif' f I 

(OT-f 2 . 50) 

ST R1RT R TROT OTT'f T ftRR % fROT ft 
R^aTRf RtT OTRRt Rr ROT qrtOTR Tt 
TRfRTl Rt Rp t I 
Ro 5‘ 50) 



- 3(ii;] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4f>Oi 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


80 IS : 6036-1970 kTTfTETkf 
q?f E~EfET r wrEEf off 
fafafk 


1 IS : 6044 (*TPT 1 ) — 1 07 ] jrfsFT 
ipflfTEE EE EFEFTE 

# <tf’E Hf^cn VITO 1 suTOrffT 
tfk TtfflfoT PTTEt #' E^TITT 

32 IS : 6047—1970 EfirTFTT ETEf ft 
Tt fEfiEfk 


83 IS : 6051-1970 FPqfEfEEE 

* S 3 

trV TEET fire ETT^Ef Erf 
EEETEE EfpT 


84 IS : 6068-1970 TElf EJffkl 

(^fnrf % ^t) — ^ ff sniFTf, 
Tit eteteeV 

85 IS : 6076-1971 f-TETE TTvff 

% ETE 


86 IS : 6095-1971 35-Mt 

E-lfEE FeRET % ¥Kff Tf 
MePse 


87 IS 16097—1971 EHFtE 

ETEEiYE f-EEHi % EEE ETE % 
EFT 


?E FT 4T if TF3TT % ts<j if qfEf "Ft TTE 
TE Tt ElErff % pTEE if iq^wf Ek 
TTErft EET EffSFE E?T ETjfEET 
E# f I TE ETEEf if ET -TOTE TP? 
E?E % ¥E fi t^TT iT^k jftrTT | I 
(EFE E° 5. 00) 

FE ETET fr 5rrr r nf T T ?)k TTtmfiTT FETET 
E FT iff qff fETTTTf, qfsE eFteT rffr 
5FE FEETE % E-EFTE Ef ftffT EfftfT 
•< 0 - E$ $ I 
(EFT E° 4. 00) 

?E E1EE E E4EEE ETEF f Ef EkTTTj 
EET TREt sfk qff^nf !pf E-eFteY 
5?Y E^ I I 
(Ej?E Eo 2. 50) 

tE EftTET E FF^fEfEEE EW EEEY fE»jf 
ElfJEf f r TTTT fEE ET^lf, n^q. 

FeFeEE (eFeFee), EElf qff fEE 
ETgtT, $Et gf EF^rf (EfEfEE) Ek 
ETEFEE FEET % CRETE k # q^ 
FEE^E eY Ef | | 

(TJFE Vo 3 so) 

SEETTFETTnf EifYEff (|^pf %^)- 
^ EEl-Tf, eY ETETETf t E# | I 
(tJFE Ec 3. 00 ) 

ERE if PttYe £e>ETE T^ ff E TIE E TIE 
ETE T^Tf eVt ETET % ETE FEE YffcT 
Fe^ ETJ f | 

(*JFE Vo 4 . oo) 

?E ETET if 35 fEEf EtFtE fTFEf % 
EifERE EtT EfcE^E T ETE E ET^ 

qr% 300 Ek 600 Eter eet^ ei% 

T^Ef qff EFT ETETEf E«E E^E EkTJE 
^f of | I 

(vjFE Vo 3 . 0 0 ) 

ETET if 1 5, 35, 65 Ek 70 filEf 

Ef.?f T’ETtT TIE TEE E^f Erk 
f^fST fTTEf Ek EFi fEE fT-TT % TEEE, 
ETTTTE EtT TfTEEE % poq TE% E5E 
EfE ETEfsft ETE fEEfpTE f%E W | ! 
(EFE Eo 3, oo) 



4602 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1 972/ASVlNA 29, 1894 


[Fart tt— 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


(4) 


88 IS : 6099-1971 wff % 
pJ fTfirfe 


TTTrTT if TTTDFITT (^far) % 

faffT if TFT TNT TFT 5rTffn( 

fTaffVr ^ ? 1 

(BTT O 5.00) 


TT WT-flT TrTTt apt Tfc^T WK-fTT TTTT TfNf 9, T^TIT 9TT? TTT FTT, Tt 1, ?fD; TT% iflFST TTT^TTf ( 1 ) 

TrrSFTl TOff^rtp? TFT NPf, TfTTJT, W^TTRTT-l, ( 2) tV F«lM<r, Ttsft TOT, TTNk- 9, ( 3) 534 BTTK TFTT NT& 

tDt, artsrt- 7 , (4) 5,^^ t^rfa fjy, ^t+tTi-io, (5) 5-9-201/2, PTttwtF ^ttttt-i, (o) 117/ 
418-tt, TRffor TTT, TTTJT— 5, (7) 54, NTTT T^T, TaHT-24 ^ NTfcft NT Tppff $ I 

trilo afto 41 2 ITT, TWlfaSw 1 

[To fft tpT f [/3 : 2] 

Meto Delhi, 17 August 1972 
NOTIFICATION 

S.O.3 306.— -In pursuance of regulation 4 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955., the Indian 
Standards Institution hereby notifies that amendment(s) to the Indian Standard(s) given in the schedule hereto annexed/have been Issued 
under the powers conferred lay the sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 3 of the said Regulations. 

The Schedui,b 


Si. No. and title of Che Indian No. and Date of No- and Date of Brief particulars of the Date from whlchj 

No. Standard amended Gazette Notification the Amendment Amendment the amendment 

in which the easta- shall have effect . 

bliahment of the 
Indian Standard 
was notified. 


(1) CT> 


(3) (4) 


(5) 


( 6 ) 


1. IS : 1 77-1970 Specification S.0. 1277 dated No. I January 
for cotton drills (Second May 27 , 1972. 1972 

Revision) 

2 IS : 278-1969 Sepeciflcation S.O. 639 dated 21 *No. 1 Novem 
for galvanized steel February 1970 ber 1971 

barbed wire for fencing 
( Second Revision ) 


3. IS : 286-1966 Methods of S. O. 1759 dated No. 1 January 
sampling and test for 20 May 1967 1972 

soaps {First Revision ) 


Tables 1 and 2 have been amended. 1 January 1972 


(i) Clause 3^2 hasbeen subst- x November 1971 
ituted by a new one and the 
foot-noted with (*) mark has 
been deleted. 

(ii) ClauBe 7 1 3 has been substi- 
tuted by a new one and the 
foot-notes with (£) and (§) 
marks have been deleted. 

(lil) Clause 7 ■ 5 has been deleted. 

(i) Clause 10- 1-6 has been 1 January 1972 
deleted 

(ii) Clauses iO'2'i and i0'2'2 
have been amended 

(iii) (Page 24, clause 10-3, for- 
mula)— Substitute ‘14- 6’ for 
T-46\ 

(iv) A new clause o- 4’ 1 has 
been added. 


4. IS : 565-1961 Specification S. O. 2242 dated 
for DDT water dispers- 2t July 1962 
ible powder concentrates 
0 Revised ) 


5 IS : 1507-1966 Specification S. O. 1759 dated 
for copper oxychloride 20 May 1967 
water dispersible powder 
concentrates (First Revi- 
sion 1) 


No. 4 [Page 4, clasusc 5 • x (see Amend- 1 December 1971 

Decembcri97i mentNo. 2, second line of 
clause 5- 1)] — Substitute * 

‘o ■ 062 ram (250 gauge)’ for 
'O' 125 mm (500 gauge)’. 


N0.3 [Page 9, clause B-vi, line 2 1 October 1971 

October 1971 (see also Amendment No. 2, 

September 1970)] — Substitute 
‘0-25 percent’ for ‘o ■ 5’ per- 
cent. 


• For purposes of 1ST Certification Marks Scheme, this amendment shall come into force with effect from 1 January 1972. 





Sec. 3(ii)J 


THE GAZETTE OF TND1A: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVTNA 29, 1894 


4603 


(I) (2) 


( 3 ) ( 4 ) ( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


6. IS : 2129-1962 Specification S. O. 3881 dated No. 6 

for parathion emulsi- No. 29 December December 1971 
fiablc concentrates 1962 


7. 

IS : 2566-1965 Specification S.O. 1501 dated 
for B-twill jute bags 8 May 1965 

(Revised) 

No, 4 

December 1971 

8. 

IS : 2865-1964 Specification S. O. 895 dated 
for methyl parathion cm- 20 March 1965 

ulsifiable concentrates. 

No. 3 

December 1971 

9 - 

IS : 2874-1964 Specification S.O. 3951 dated 
for heavy cce jute bags. 16 November 1964 

No. 4 

December 1971 

10, 

IS : 3327 -1965 Specification S. 0. 108 1 dated 

for paddy thresher, pedal 9 April 1966 

operated 

•No. 2 

June 1971 

11. 

IS : 3344-1965 Specification S.O. 1081 dated 
for D. W. tarpaulin 9 April 1966 

jute bags for packing 
(Mint) coins 

No. 2 

December 1971 

12- 

IS : 3390-1965 Specification S. O. 1756 dated 
for sphygmomanometers, 11 June 19 66 
mercurial j 

No. 3 

Tanuary 1972 


13. IS : 3446-1966 Specification S. O. 2246 dated 

for leather appronsfor 30 July 1966 

drafting systems. 

14. IS : 3667-1966 Specification S O. 913 dated 18 

for B-twill doth March 1967 


No. 1 

January 1972 


No. x 

January 1972 


15. IS : 3777-1966 Specifica-’ S. O. 913 dated 

tion for dusters, cotton 18 March 1967 
khadi, bleached 

16. IS : 4059-1967 Accuracy S. O. 2654 dated 

requirements for medium 5 Aug. 1967 

quality medium speed— 

gcatB 

17. IS: 4309-1967 Methods of S.O. 520 dated 

measurement on direct 10 February 1968 
reading pH meters 

18. 18:4578-1968 Specification S.O. 2766 dated 

for lubricating oils for 10 August 1968 
refrigeration machinery 


No. I 

January 1972 
No. x 

December 1971 


No. 1 

December 1971 
No. 1 

January 1972 


19. IS : 4778-1968 Specification S.O. 368 dated 25 No. 2 

for cotton laces for foot-] January 1969 December 1971 
wear 


20. IS : 4807-1968 Methods of S. O. 2330 dated No. 1 

testing viscose rayon staple 14 June 1969 January 1972 

fibres 


21. IS : 4948-1968 Specification S.O. 1906 dated No. 2 

for welded steel wire a 17 May 1969 November 1971 

fabric for general use 


Clause 5 - 1 has been amended 1 December 1971 


Clause B-2- 1 has been amended 


Clause 3 ■ 1 has been amended 


A note has been added at the 
end of clause B-2- 1. 

(Page 8, clause 8 • 2 • 3, first line)- 
Substitute ‘spring steel’ for 
‘mild steel’. 

A Note has been added at the 
end of clause B-2' 1 


1 December 1971 
x December 1971 

1 December 1971 
X June 1971 

1 December 1971 


(i) Clause 4- 5 has been substi- I January 1973 
tuted by a new one. 

(ii) [Page 5, foot-note with an 
asterisk (*) mark] — substitute 
the following for the existing 
matter : 

‘‘Specification for cotton twills 
(revised) )” 

(iii) New matter has been added 
in clause 4 - 8 ■ 2 

Clause 4' 3 has been substituted 1 January 1972 
by a new one. 


(Page 9 , clause B-2' 1, line 4 of 1 January 1972 
Note)— Substitute the words 
under the electrode gun having 
two polca ‘for the words 
between two poles’. 

This amendment is beinglissued 1 January 1972 
to include another size of the 
dusters. 

Clasue 4" 4 has been substituted 1 December 1971 
by a new one 


Clause 5 has been substituted by 1 December 1971 
a new one 

This amendment provides for 1 January 1972 
the electric strength test as an 
alternate to the crackling test 
for limiting the moisture 
content in the material. 

(1) Clauses 1-1-1 and 2-3. have 1 December 1971 
been amended 

(Ji) Clause 3-2 has been sub- 
stituted by a new one. 

(iii) Tables 1 and 2 have been 
amended 

(i) Clause 6-6'3*2 has been 1 January 1973 
amended 

(ii) Clause 6- 7- 1 has been sub- 
stituted by a new one, 

(Page 4, clause 3-3)— Substi- 1 November 1974 

tute 'IS : 1521-1960’’ for 
‘IS : 280-1972’. 


* For purposes of ISI csrtfl cation Marks scheme, ty 8 amendment shall come in to force witheflect from 1 Jpunpry 1972, 




4604 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 194 


[Past II— 


(1) 


(2) 


(3) 


(4) 


(5) 


( 6 ) 


22. IS : 5281-1969 Speciflca - 

tion for fenitrothion emu- 
Isiflable concentrates. 

S. 0. 918 dated 7 
March 1970 

No. 1 

November i97r 

(Page 6, clause A-i'i, third 1 

sentence) — Delete. 

November 1971 

23. IS : 5443-1969 Technical 
supply conditions for 

reamers. 

S. 0. 1277 dated 

27 May 1972 

No. 1 

October 1971 

(Page 5, clause 5, Figure)— 1 
Substitute ‘Maximum limit 
of reamer diameter — maximum 
limit of hole diameter. — 

O' 15 IT’ for Maximum limit 
of reamer diameter — minimum 
limit of hole diameter— 

0-15 IT”. 

October 1971 

’•'For purposes of ISI Certification Marks Scheme 
this amendment shall come into force with effect from 





1st January 1972. 


Coplea of these amendments arc available with the Indian Standard Institution, 'Mimak Bhavan’, 9 Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, 
New Delhi-i and also its branch offices at (i) 534 Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Road, Bombay-7 (il) 5 Chowringhee Approach, Calcutta 
13 (iil) 54 General Pattora Road, Madras-2 (iv) 117/418 B, Sarvodya Nugar Kanpur, (v) 5-9-201/2 Chirag Ali Lane, Hyderabad-l, 
(vi) ‘SADHNA’ Nurmohamcd Shaikh Marg, Kanpur, Ahemadabad-l and (vii) F Block, Unity Bldg., Narasimharaja Square, 
Bangalore-2. 

[No. CMD/13 :5] 

df fTrvft, 17 5F7FT 1972 

tTJJo STto 33 061 — vrrTcflTT BTW dRII (SWI'ild fffff) f%f%FT 1955,% 4 % SJTJTtT dRcfal RTFS dRTC 

3TTJ qf«r$f%cr f %47 ^nrrr £ f% t-tt fafdw % 3 % ddfaPm ( 1 ) % sfjer stri % srsftd ddt Jr f%t 

bertT % otter sp-ft f%tr ^ | : — 




frFT TTTTsT 3 dTlTSFT %t ddTr jjlfJtTd lUTl'TTdT'J ^ 

URrfl-tnTRT ftfP pR'T %t faql 

&TR # 

^urr i 5 rJ 
wr 

fsRtr 


(l) (2) 

( 3 ) 

(4) 

(5) (6) 

1 . IS : 177-1970 

1277 

1 dddiV 

uRoft 1 wfa: 2 tt f%4r 1 d-ml 1971 

($TU3*rftsT'’T) 

fTTir 2 7 df 

1972 


2. IS : 278-1969^7? *747%%^ 

1972 

6 3 9 

1 ddRT 

( l) dTR’ 3.2% IT *747 RTffl 1971 


fadRl 2 1 TTTd 

1971 

dRSfSq7*PTr | TfK (*) 

?tr %V (yru 

1970 


TTTrf%tT 974 fTTTl fit 

grftsfTJT) 



( 2) WZ 7.3% RIFT IT 447 

447 | stf T (J) 
tWT ($) *Tf%rT 4R fett)- 
f%47 t^7 cfV fif | | 

(3) 7. 5 f^qr 44r f 1 


tpT dWSRT ffKdk TFTffif %t 
7T347 Jl Tf ¥547 tfk TfJ'TT 


*vnT^miR«FiiRiTs*n'>Fif : 45 i , %tvr^r *frff% dwteid 1 dddfr, 1972% wFj^n^ri 1 


Sec. 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 4605 


( 1 ) (*) 

( 3 ) 

(4) 

(5) ( 6 ) 

3 . IS : 286-1 9 66 RFfTR# TEH# 

™T#T 1759 

iitr 1 srn^t, 

( 1 ) H»? 10. 1 . 6 ?3T flir 1 TTITT, 7 2 

## cT«rr qxtesror iTfait 

flTFF 20 Rf 

1972 

ITT £ 1 

( 'TJHT J’TdW’I ) 

1967 


( 2) ITU? 10. 2. 1 tfk 10.2 
. 2 HT fall ITT 

t 1 

(3) (1«5 24, HU? 10 . 3 , $*) 




-1. 46 % T*TH IT 14. 0 

ITT #tf3FT I 




(4) TIT W 0.4-1 




3ff?T nr | 1 

4. IS : 565-1961 

2242 

H° 4 fllRT 

(<JSS 4, HU? 5. 1 (##faT 1 f?T«TT 71 

f4G 4HlT apt 

f*TTT 2 1 jjsrrf, 

1971 

#3Tr 2 # ITU £ 5 , 1 

fw«j ( 5 ^trr«pr) 

1962 


iffT TfTl)- 0.125 fafft 
( 500 IT) % TTf-T IT 0. 062 
fW*ft ( 250 #?) HT #tfa<r ( 

5. IS : 15 07-1 966 5rHfa*Rrfal 

tr<T?ft 1759 

#0 3 HTTTT 

(^5 9, ST0j#r 3. 1 TftfT 2- 1 HfJHT 71 


firirr 20 if 

1971 

##t£FT #<51f 2 fflTETT 1970 

q?f fafirfte (t??h 

1967 


tfau ) '0.5’ ifriTT % 




IT 0.25 SlfTTT HT TVfatT \ 

6 , IS: 2129-1962'*TrfaT>THT 

ITT#* 3881 

#0 efttfWTT, 

HUJ #f-5 . 1 Hr TTHfaH 1 fcfHHT, 7 1 

qiwfk #5i st fafaf*? 

flHTH 29flHTirT, 1971 

fall TTr t 1 


1962 

IiHTff 1501 

#0 4fttfWrT, 

H«?tfV-2. 1 Tr##t(R fall 1 flRTTT, 71 

7. IS: 25 66-1 96 5 HTTP! 

irtrt 1 # fafafte 

f^TTW 8 Rt, 

1971 

nr % 1 

(gsrfrfSRr) 

1965 



8 . IS: 2865-1 964 fall^T far- 

tpT ?ft 895 

#0 3 fllTPTT, 

H®? 3 . 1 Hr ##f -IT fHTT 1 fetPHT, 7 1 

ftr#r % ifteiYi #3t it 

flTTH 20 H7#, 1971 

nr | 1 


1965 



0 . IS: 2874-1 964 HTft#V'FTTPT 

3951 

#0 4 

tru?#V- 2 . 1 %TPT#tuH 1 ftlPHT, 71 

#tff 1 # frftrffe 

flRTH 1 6 •TTTTT, f#TnHT 1971 

flRuft #t?V if | 1 


1964 



10 . IS : 3327 -i 965 #?HHTfaH 

tTRHt 1081 

*#o 2 5JH, 

(<JU5 8 , Hu? 8.2.3, T?#f 1 ^T, 1971 

HPT Hr?# Ht R?ftT T# 

flHfa 9 HS? H, 

1971 

ifar ) 

0 ,.r-_r^ 

MiiR 

1966 


"HT&* T€fa” % TTTT IT 




"TlfTT ” HT #tfn 1 

11 . IS: 3344-1965 (?HRTH%) 

t»#5ft 1080 

#0 2 fl^HTT 

HU?Tt 2. 1 ^THT^TFT T lfl.TPTT, 71 

fafat I# 4fHH % fa??t° 

f^HTTT 9 HIT 

1971 

tth faRTi irfr n$ 1 1 

ISJJJ fdTHIH % 13TFT #rrf 
HTfafaffe 

1966 




+«TTT#fa HTRH HTHT STRIUR fa-? ituR! HTlf H faT H? 1 spik'd, 19 72 # HFT ?T I 




4606 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA; OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVTNA 29, 1894 


[Part II— 


(1) (2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

12. IS: 3390-1965'TR3#T*fT- 
^TT HTpEft %t faftrfe 

Ett 1756 
P?6T ! P 1 1 

1966 

?fo 6 HTTTt 

1972 

( 1 ) 1TK 4-5$PqRT<HTT 1 72 

'Twft’TT H7T | 1 

(2) [ 7^5 5 (*) TrdfpH'TTT 

f^Ttft] ITS % H7PT 

TT f6T?rfH%T W.T Hftf^tiT ; — 

‘•specification for cotton twilis (revised)” 

( 3) OTT 4.8.2 if HTHlft 

3ft#t | 1 

13. IS: 3446-1 966 fTpfc'T 

$5pft ift WinftecT 

IJTsft 2246 
f%TTT 30 5THTf 

4 

1966 

tfo 1 -1 q ft , 

, 1972 

4.3% HTPT IT TTT WS 
3ft*T HOT | 1 

lHHTft, 72 

14. IS: 3667-1 966 
%t 

qn Eft 9 1 3 
fTTfa 18HTH, 
1967 

Ho 1 

1972 

(^ss 9 , TO tff 2 . 1 f^Toft 
%t Tf%T ( 4 ) ‘between two 
poles* % WPT IT 
under the electrode 
gun having two pale’ 

7>T tftfoTCJ 1 

1 HTOft, 72 

15. 18:3777-1966 ^fV Wl^ft 
% faTfalcT TOTCt %t 

t[HErt 913 
f%Thp 18HT* 

1967 

Ho 1 oPPTff 

1972 

TtJ HwtEpT ETHtft pt l£P EFT 
HHfJT vrlfTT TTHt % 
^HTftfrwT^rr^rl 1 

1 3THar6r 1972 

16 IS: 4059-1967 RET %T 

t[H Eft 2654 

tf° 1 

4. 4 % PTPT IT Tqr 

1 foHtJJT 

TT^f fpOT % TT 

f<nr?t pf TptsrsHrEft ph- 

4 

_ rv , , T\ , , , _ j 

^wt ttwitj 

fsRPP 5 EPTHT 

1967 

1971 

Pm TTT | I 

1971 

17. IS: 4309-1967 WWT?ff 

tft *rrfwf %t qm 

TJtfT 

Eft 5 20 
fmp 10 
Tn<rff 1968 

Ho 1 

1971 

5 % WPT TT TTHTO fl?Tr 
*PTT $ I 

1 PtHTHT 1971 

18. IS: 4578-1968 HtftTT 

*rcftmft % fan 
%t fafafte 

ITT Eft 2706 
fSTPP 10 

ERTT 1968 

tfo 1 HHHft 

1972 

W TlftSTT gfTTT HTTP % ff|F 
ftW t THt %t ttht % qft- 
TftHH % T£T77 <rflW>T % 
tofttt tm fatjci hptst 
T ftsm Pm wr | 1 

1 1972 

19. IS: 4778-1 968^ff%f^ 

t[H Eft 368 

H 0 2 PfHfTT 

( l) SPIT 1. 1. 1 sftT 2. 3PT 

1 PmTT 1971 

$tft %ttff %f fafarf^ 

Pmp 25 

HTTft 1969 

1971 

tl ki'Iw 'T fpTT T7T q 1 
( 2 ) 3. 2% HTTP TT TTT 

*T°3' Pm H7T ^ 1 
( 3) HTT°ft l?ftT 2 PT tfaffEFT 

fprr ttt | 1 


20. IS: 4807-1968 fapptH 

^PT % <Ptt T¥f «FV 7ft- 
OTW Tfflw 

tJH Eft 2330 
ftHhp 14 5JH, 
1969 

Ho 1 oprrft 

1972 

( 1 ) W 6 . 6 . 3 . 2 PT HHt- 
ST fPTT HTI | 1 
( 2) ^ 6. 7 l^PTRTTTTT 
fm W | 1 

1 spprft 1972 


Sec. 3(ii)J 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4607 


(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) 


IS : 49 8-1968 STFF4 
vFTftFT % feRr 
^FTET % fiTT 4ft TlftY 

4ft fftfwfe 

UF sft 1906 
ftFTTT 174^ 
1969 

ft 0 2 r T4 J 

1971 

('fs 4, tar 33)- 

IS : 280-1972 % PTPT TT 
IS : 1521-19604Tvfrfftu 

r.^TifT 1 971 

IS:5 281-1969tRftl£TfftqftT 
'nwftftr Trsr^ft fTpfffe 

«ft 9 1 8 
fgRtT 7 Flft 

1970 

ft° 1 

1971 

(f5 6, If 1-1 ffrpRT 

4FFT ) “ ^rr i 

1 uro: 1971 

IS : 5443—1969 tftipcft Tit 
flRV’tft fFRlftiftSFT 

ITfl Tfr 1277 
fftBFF 27 Rf 

1972 

*ft° 1 scpf^iR: 
1971 

(<JES 5, SR 5, Wfifft) — 1 T’R’TT 1971 

"Maximum limit of reasuer diameter — 

minimum limit of the hole diameter — O ■ 1 5 


II % WET TT Maximum limit of hole 
diameter— O’ 15 n m pftfarr , 


* rnirffc xwi (sRwrf^Tf) Tmft % ^ 1 1972 ft tptitt i 

^/T ^TTCcfftl BFRtf 4ft 5rfft4t ^TTTffhl RTT4I ft?4T, 9 ^IgTVTl^ TfiT BTft, fif foreft-l, ftk STTW Ti ' iqfa t f f ( 1 ) 
BT8RT TO BTft TPFp 1 ( 2 ) fftyfr? fftfftff»r, muFFR, ftfifttT-Q ( 3 ) 534, *P3R 

<*?vr trsf, Tcajf-7, (4) 5, ^rTrurft tprtr ife (5) 5-9-201/2 fwuwrft ftr, $ttrr-i (e) 117/ 

4 1 8-*ft, Ffttef UTC, ^^-5 tffa ( 7) 54, ^RTT'fzft ffa, RJFT-2 % STFcT 4ft RT TFcft $ I 


[ft ftt qiT #1] 

New Delhi, the 23rd Aug. 1972 

S. O. 3307— In pursuance of sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 8 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 
1353, as a,n.‘J.i:i from time to time, the Indian Standards Institution, hereby, notifies that ninety eight licences, particulars of which 
arc given in the following schedle, have been renewed during the month of September, 1971 

The schedule 


SI. 

No. 

Licence No. 
and date. 

Period 

From 

of Validity 

To 

Name & Address of the Licensee 

Artiele/Process covered by the Licence 
and the Relevant 

IS : Designation 

I 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 


CM/L-13 

3-9-1956 

1-9-1971 

31-8-1972 

Lallubhai Aminchand P.Ltd., 48/50 
Kansara Chawl, Bombay-2. 

(a) Wrought aluminium utensils 

Grades SIB, SIC and NS3 

( b ) Wrought aluminium Utensils 

Grade SIC, Anodized — IS : 21-1959 

CM/L-15 

I3'9-I956 

I-IO-I97I 

30-9-1972 

Bombay Suburban Village Industries 
Association, Flag Section, Gramo- 
dyagwadi, 38/42, Dockyard Road, 
Bombay-xoDD. 

The National Flag of India (cotton khadi) 
IS:i-i968 

CM/L-96 

18-9-1958 

I-10-I97I 

30-9-1972 

Travancorc Titanium Products Ltd,, 
Kochuvcli Trivandrum-7. 

Titanium Dioxide for Paints AnataBe 
(Type A) IS: 411-1968 

CM/L-190 

25-5-1960 

1-6-1971 

31-5-1972 

The Indian Turpentine & Rosin Co. 
Ltd,, P. O. Clutterbuckganj Ba- 
reilly. 

Rosin (gum rosin) 18:553-1955 

CM/L-208 

29-7-1960 

16-8-1971 

15-2-1972 

Bengal Chemical & Pharmaceutical 
works Limited, 6 Gancsh Chundci 
Avenue, Calcutta. 

Naphthalene, Grade 1-15:539-1965 

CM/L-338 

1-9-1961 

I-IO-I97I 

30-9-1972 

Indo-Asian Traders (Private Ltd., 

Nakodar Road Jullunder City. 

Metal clad switches, 15 amp., 250 
volts with HC type fuse base and 
carrier-IS: 4064:1967. 


4608 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 , 1972 /ASVTNA 29 , 1894 [Part II— 


x 2 34 


5 


6 


7 

CM/L-431 

18-7-1962 

1-8-1971 

31-7-1972 

8 

CM/L-450 

30-8-1962 

i6-9-r97i 

I5-9-I972 

9 

CM/L-451 

30-8-1962 

16-9-1971 

15-9-1971 

10 

CM/L-500 

14-1-1963 

I-9-I97I 

31-8-1972 

II 

CM/L-J38 

30-5-1963 

I-9-1971 

31-8-1972 

12 

CM/L-570 

23-8-1963 

16-9-1971 

15-9-1972 


13 

CM/L-575 

30-8-1963 

1-4-1971 

31-3-1972 

14 

C-/L-613 

31-12-1963 

1-10-1971 

30-9-1972 

15 

CM/L-622 

23-1-1964 

1-10-1971 

30-9-1972 

16 

CM/L-653 

28-4-1964 

16-8-1971 

15-8-1972 

17 

CM/L-716 
29-6-1964 j 

1-8-1971 

31-7-1972 

18 

CM/L-717 

29-6-1964 

1-8-1971 

31-7-1972 

19 

CM/L-742 

21-7-1964 

16-8-1971 

15-8-1972 

20 

CM/L-752 

31-7-1964 

1-9-1971 

31-8-1972 

21. 

.CM/L-755 

12-8-1964 

1-9-1971 

31-8-1972 

22 

CM/L-760 

21-8-1964 

16-9-1971 

15-9-1972 

23 

CM/L-763 

24-8-1964 

1-9-1971 

31-8-1972 

24 

CM/L-764 

24-8-1964 

1-9-1971 

31-8-1972 


Indian Oxygen Ltd,, Electrode Fac- Covered electrodes for metal Arc 
tory Barrackpore-Trunk Road, welding of mild steel of normal 
Khardunk 24 Par gab; penetration type-IS 181-1957. 

Coimbatore Premier Corporation Pvt. Small Ac and universal electric 
Ltd., 262, Avanashi Road,Coimbatore, motors with claBS A’ insulation 
18. 18:996-1964, 


Do. 


The Aluminium Industries Ltd., 
No. 1. Ceramic Factory Road, Kun- 
dara (Kerala). 


Three phase induction motors upto 
T 5 KW. (iohp) only with class 
A ’ insulation — 18:325-1961. 

PVC cables only with aluminium 
conductors, 250 and 650 volt 
grades— IS: 694 (Part I & II) — 
1964. 


The Aluminium Industries Ltd., No. 1, Polythene insulated and PVC sheathed 
Cermaic Factory Road, Kundara aluminium — cables — IS: 1596-1962. 

(Kerala). 


Radio & Electricals Manufacturing 
Co Ltd., Post Bag No. 6, 
Mysore Road, Bangalore-26. 


(a) PVC insulated cables 

(i) Single core (Unsheathed). 

(ii) Single core (PVC sheathed) 

(tii) Circular twin, three and four 

cores (PVC sheathed). 

(in) Flat twin with or without ECC 
(PVC sheathed). 

(b) PVC insulaed flexible cords 
(v) Twin twisted (unsheathed) 

(di) Circular twin, three and four 
Icors (PVC sheathed). 

IS : 694 (Part I & II) — 1964, 


Voltage Grade Conductor 


250/440 and 
650/1 100 volts 
250/400 volts 

250/440 and 650/1 100 
volts 

650/1 1.00 volts 


Copper or 
Aluminium 


Aluminium 

only 

Copper or 
Aluminium 


250/440 volts 


Copper only 


Hindustan Steel Ltd., Bhilai Steel Structural steel (fusion welding quality) 
Plant, Bhilai-i, Distt. Drug(MP) — 18:2062-1969 

The National Rolling & Steel Ropes (i) Steel wires Ropes for Haulag* 
Ltd., Shamnagar, 24, Parganas (West Purposes in Mines— IS : i 856- iq 6 i . 
Bengal). (ii) Steel wire Ropes for Winding 

Purposes In Mines — 18:1855-1961. 

R. N. Dutta & Co. 30 Bediandanga, Steel conduits for electrical wiring 
2nd Lane, Calcutta-39. 18:1653-1964. 

Anand Water Meter Mfg, Co. 26/66, 15mm and 20 mm sizes water meter® 
Palluruthy Industrial Area, Co- (domestic type) — 15:779-1968. 

chin-5. 


Steel Rolling Mill of Bengal Ltd, Structural Steel (standard quality) 
28, Strand Road, Calcutta. 18:226-1969. 


Do. Structural steel (ordinary quality) 

IS: 1977-1969. 

Croplifc Chemicals Pvt. Ltd., 32, Endrin EC— IS : i 3 io - i 958. 

Foreshore Road, Sibpore, Howrah, 

Indian Plastics Ltd., Poisar Bridge Plsstic water-closet seats and covers — 
Kandivli, Bombay 67 NB 15:2548-1967. 

Mohan Meakin Breweries Ltd., Malt extract (non-din) IS : — 2404-1963. 
Mohan Nagar (Ghaziabad). 


Berco Welding & Electrical Equip- 
ment Mfg. Co., Railwat Road, 
Jullundur City. 


Arc Welding Transformers, single 
operator type, 380-400 volts 
upto 3JO amps. Max. continuous 
hand welding Current — IS :i8'5I- 

1966. 


Krishna Steel Industries P. Ltd,, Structural steel (standard quality) — 

29*30, Vaswani Mansion 120 Din IS :226-i969 

shaw Vacha Road, Churchgate 
Reclamation. Post Box No. 93-A, 

Bombay. 

Ktishan Steel Industries P Ltd., Structural Steel (ordinary quality 
29-30 Vaswani Mansion 120, Din 18:1977-1969. 
shaw Vacha Road, Churchgate 
Reclamation. Post Box No. 93- A, 

Bombay. 



Sec. 3(i.)J 


THE GAZETTE OF TNDLA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVIMA 29, 1894 


4609 


1 2 3 


25 

CM/L-765 

24-8-1964 

I-9-I97 1 

31-8-1972 

26 

CM/L-766 

24-8-1964 

1-9-1971 

31-8-1972 

27 

CM/L-778 

27-8-1964 

1-9-1971 

3I-4-I972 

28 

CM/L-1010 

10-2-1965 

16-8-1971 

15-8-1972 

29 

CM/L-1015 

26-2-1965 

16-3-1971 

I5-3-I972 

30 

CM/L-noi 

16-6-1965 

16-9-1971 

15-9-1972 

31 

GM/L-1112 

20-7-1965 

16-8-1971 

15-8-1972 


4 


5 


6 


The Punjab Steel Rolling Mills Old 
Station, Baroda. 

Do. 


Oriental Power Cables Ltd. Cablc- 
ttagar, Distt. Kota (Rajasthan). 


The Plant Protection Products Pvt. 
Ltd., Kodavalur (S. Rly) Nellore 
Distt. 

Capstan Meter (India) Ltd. Ton Road, 
(Near Dutgaputa), Jaipur. 


The Jindal (India) Private Limited, 
Delhi Road, Hissar (Haryana) 

Dhiman Sclcntihc Works Dhiman 
Building , Bengali Mohalla, Ambala 
Cantt. 


Structural Steel (Standard quality) 
18:226-1969. 

Structural steel (ordinary quality) 
IS:i977-i969* 

Paper Insulated Lead Sheathed 
cables (With Aluminium conduc- 
tors ) for electricity supply upto and 
including 33kv, 18:692-1965. 

Endrin EC — 18:1310-1958. 


Water meters (domestic type) Type 
A only — 

(a) Dry dial type — 15mm. 20 mm 
25 mm and 40 mm size , 

(b) Wet-dial type 15 mm. aize 
IS: 779-1968. 

Mild steel tubes IS:i239(Part I) — 
1968. 

Wooden metric scale for general 
purposes, rigid. Grade A & B. 
50 cm. and 100 cm. and foldable 
Grade B, 50 cm. only — IS:i48o- 
1960. 


32 CM/L-1122 

6-8-1965 

33 CM/L-rt25 

12-8-1965 


16-8-1971 15-8-1972 Cyanamid India Ltd. Atul Post Office, Malathion EC — 18:2567-1963. 

Via. Bulsar. 

1-9-1971 31-8-1972 The Fort William Co. Ltd., (Steel (a) Steel Wire Ropes for winding pur 

Wire & Rope Division), 6A, G.T. poses in Mines and 
Road, Konnagar, Distt. Hooghly. (6) Steel wire Ropes for haulage 

purposes in Mines — IS: 1855-1961 & 
18:1856-1961. 


34 CM/L-1126 
12-8-1963 


1-9-1971 31-8-1972 


Do. 


(a) Steel wire Ropes for general En- 
gineering purposes and 
( b ) Round strand galvanized steel wire 
ropes for shipping purposes — IS: 


2266-1963 & '. 


2581-1968. 


35 

CM/L-1127 

12-8-1965 

1-9-1971 

31-8-1972 

Express Cables Private Ltd., P. 0. Hard-drawn stranded aluminium and 
Neora, Distt. Patna. (Bihar). steel-core aluminium conductors 

for overhead power transmission 
purposes — IS: 398-1961. 

36 

GM/L-1136 

3-9-1965 

16-8-1971 

15-8-1972 

Cyanamid India Ltd., Atul Post Offiec, Malathion, technical — IS: 1832-1961. 

Via. Bulsar. 

37 

CM/L-1190 

6-1-1966 

1-9-1971 

31-8-1972 Central Insecticides & Fertilizers, BHC Water dispersible powder Con- 
110, Industrial Estate, Indore (MP). ccntratcs — IS: 562-1962 

38 

CM/L-iJ9t 

6-1-1966 

1-9-1971 

31-8-1972 

Central Insecticides & Fertilizers no, BHC dusting powders — 18:561-1962. 
Industrial Estate, Indore (Ri.P.). 

39 

CM/L-1284 

.27-6-1966 

1-10-1971 

30-9-1972 

The National Rolling & Steel Ropes Steel Wire Ropea for general Engineering 
Ltd, Shamnagar, 24 Parganas,West purposes — -IS: 2266-1963. 

Bengal. 

40 

C.M/L-1303 

28-7-1966 

16-8-1971 

15-8-1972 

The Eveready Flashlight Company, Flashlights — 18:2083-1562. 

Division of tJnion Corbide (India) 

Ltd., Mill Road, Aishbagh, Luck- 
now (U.P.). 

4i 

CM/L-1320 

30-8-1966 

16-9-1971 

15-8-1972 

Entoma Insecticides & Agro Chemicals BHC DP — 18:561-1962. 

(Kerala), A-3 Shed, Industrial 

Estate, Olavakhot, PaIghat-2 

(Kerala). 

42 

CM/L-I497 

23-8-1967 

1-9-1971 

31-8-1972 

Dhiraj Metal Works, 5, Mill Para, Wrought aluminium Utensils, SIC 
Rajkot-i (Gujarat). grade — IS ;2I-I959 

43 

CM/L-1500 

25-8-1967 

1-9-1971 

3T-8-1972 

Central Insecticides & Fertilizers Aldrin dusting powders— IS : 1308-1958 

no, Industrial Estate, Indore (M.P.). 

44 

CM/L-1503 

30-8-1967 

1-9-1971 

31-8-1972 

Aeron Steel Rolling Mill Pokhuran Structural Steel (Standard quality) — 
Road, Majiwada Village (Distt, 15:226-1969 

Thana). 

45 

CM/L-T504 

30-8-1967 

I-9-T97I 

31-8-1972 

Do. Structural steel (Ordinary quality) — 

IS:i977-i969. 

46 

CM/L-1514 

15-9-1967 

16-9-1971 

15-9-1972 

The Britannia Biscuit Co Ltd., M.T. Biscuits^ — IS :ioii-I968. 

TI. Road, Padi, MadraB-50. 




4 6 io the GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 [Past II— 


I 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

47 

CM/L-1515 

15-9-1967 

I-IO-I97I 

31-3-1972 

Dasmcsh Engineering Works, 2614, 
Sultanwind Road, Amritsar. 

Water meters, 15 mm. size dry dials. 
Inferential, Type A— IS : 779-1968 

48 

CM/L-I539 

6-10-1967 

1-9-1971 

31-8-1972 

Neiveli Ceramics & Refractories Ltd., 
Vadalur (Post), South Arcot 

Distt. (Tamil Nadu) 

Flushing cistern for water closets & 
urinals (valveloss siphonic type) 
vitreous china, low-level, 12-5 

& 15 litres capacity — IS: 774-1964 

49 

CML/1540 

6-10-1967 

1-9-1971 

31-8-1972 

Neiveli Ceramics & Refractories Ltd., 
Vadalur (Post), South Arcot Distt. 
(Tamil Nadu) 

Vitreous Sanitary appliances (Uit- 
reons China) — IS 12556 (Pt. II to X) 
1967 

5° 

GM/L-1619 

12-1-1968 

I-9-I97 1 

31-8-1972 

Central Insecticides & Fertilizers no, 
Industrial Estate, Indore (M.P.) 

Erdrin emT ridable concentrates — 
IS: 13*0-1958 

5 1 

CM/L-1678 

22-4-1968 

16-9-1971 

15-9-1972 

Hans Raj Mahajan & Sons, G. T. Hockey sticsks— IS: 829-1965 

Road, Jullundur City. 

52 

CM/L-1715 

12-6-1968 

16-6-1971 

15-12-1971 

Bajrangboli Engg. Go. Pvt. Ltd., 109 

G Irish Ghose Road, Bellurmath, 
Howrah (West Bengal) 

Structural steel (standard quality) — 

IS: 226-1969 

53 

CM/L-1716 

12-6-1968 

16-6-1971 

15-12-1971 

Do. 

Structural steel (ordinary quality) — 
IS: 1977-1969 

54 

CM/L-1725 

15-6-1968 

16-9-1971 

15-9-1972 

Hans Raj Mahajan & Sons, G. T. 
Road, Jullundur City 

Cricket bats — IS 1828-1966 

55 

CM/L-1752 

22-7-1968 

16-7-1971 

I5-7-I972 

Glace Kid (India) Private Ltd., 22/1, 
Gorachand Road, Calcutta -13 

Miner,* safety leather boots & shoes, — . 
18:1989-1967 

56 

CM/L-1763 

14-8-1968 

16-8-1971 

15-8-1972 

National Steel Equipment Co Opposite 
Police Training School, Nalgaum 
Dadar, Bombay- 14. 

(a) Horizontal cylindrical and horl - 
Zontal— rectangular steam sterilizer 
pressure type — IS :3829 -iq 66 
(6) Horizontal cylindrical high speed 
steam sterilizers, pressure type — 
IS 14510-1968 

57 

CM/L-1764 

14-8-1968 

16-8-1971 

15-8-1972 

National Steel Equipment Go., Oppo- 
site police Training school, Nai- 
gaurn Dadar, Bombay-14. 

Water stills for pyrogen-free [distilled 
water — IS: 3830-1970 

58 

CW/L-1772 

29-8-1968 

I-9-I97I 

31-8-1972 

The Fort William Company Ltd., 
(Steel Wire & Rope Division) 6/A, 
G.T. Road, Konnagar (Hooghly) 

Steel Wire for the core of steel-cored 
aluminium conductors for overhead 
power transmission purposes — IS ; 
398-1961. 

59 

CM/L-1861 

12-12-1968 

1-9-1971 

31-8-1972 

Central Insecticides & Fertilizers, no, 
Industrial Estate, Indore (M.P.) 

DDT dusting powders -IS 1564- 1961 . 

6o 

CM/L-1884 

31-12-1968 

1-7-1971 

30-6-1972 

Indo-Swedish Pipe Manufacturers 
Ltd., Nawalganj, Tundla Road, 
Agra-6. 

Ccntrifugally Cast (spun) iron Waste 
and Ventilating pipes, sizes 75 an d 
100 mm only — IS : 3989-1967 

6i 

GM/L-1947 

31-3-1969 

1-9-1971 

31-8-1972 

Central Insecticides & Fertilizers, no. 
Industrial Estate, Indore (M.P.) 

Copper oxychloride water dispersible 
powder concentrates — IS :i507-i966 

62 

GM/L-1950 

31-3-1969 

1-9-1971 

31-8-1972 

Do. 

Aldrln Emulsillable concentrates — - 

IS:i307-i958 

63 

GM/L-2013 

9-7-1969 

16-7-1971 

I5-I-I972 

D& H Seeheron Electrodes Private 
Ltd., 44/46, Industrial Estate, 

Laxmibal Nagar, Indore2-2(M.P.) 

Covered electrodes for metal Arc 
welding of mild steel normal penetra- 
tion type, sizes 2 mm to 6 mm 

only — IS 1814-1967. 

64 

CM/L-2020 

15-7-1969 

16-9-1971 

15-3-1972 

Krishna Miners & Traders 12, Indus- 
trial Area, Jaipur West, Rajasthan 

Endrin emulsifiable concentrares — 
IS:i3io-i958. 

65 

GM./L-2026 

28-7-1969 

16-8-1971 

15-2-1972 

Jairamdas Udyog (P) Ltd., 8th Mile, 
Mysore Road, Kengerl P. O., 

Bangalore South.^ 

(a) Hand tap, ground coarse pitch, 

(b) Machine tap. ground coarse pitch — 
Types A & C. 

(c) Machine tap, grounds, fine pitch— 
IS: 1988-1962. 

66 

CM/L-2034 

28-7-1969 

15-8-1971 

15-8-1972 

Addison & Co. Ltd., 4 18 Smith,* 

Road, Mount Road, Madras-2. 

Reamers — IS :i836-ig6i 

67 

CM/L-2046 

18-8-1969 

16-8-1971 

15-8-1972 

The Hulkot) Co. Operative Cattle 
Feed Processing Society Ltd,, 
Hulkoti, Taluka, Gadang, Distt. 
Dharwar (Mysore state) 

Compounded Feeds for Cattle — IS: 
2052-1968 

68 

CM/L-2049 

18-8-1969 

I-9-I971 

31-8-1972 

Kesoram Cement (Prop. Kesoram 
Industries & Cotton Mills Ltd.) 
Basantnagar P. O., P. B. No. 6, 
Paddapalll Taluq, Distt. Karim- 
nagar, (AP) 

Ordinary Portland cement — IS 1269” 

1967 



Sec. 3 (it)] 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/AS VINA 29, 1894 


4611 


I 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

69 

CM/L-2052 

18-8-1969 

16-8-1971 

15-8-1973 

The Hulkoti Co. Operative Cattle 
Feed Froccssiny Society Ltd. 

Hulkoti, Taluka Gadang, Distt. 
Dharwftr (Mysore State) 

i Poultry Feeds — 18:1374-1968 

70 

CM/L-2058 

26-8-1969 

1-9-1971 

29 - 2-1972 

Eastern Electrical Company (P) Ltd. 
26/22, Aerodrome Road, Sing- 

anallur Post Coimbatore, 3 (Tamil 

Three-phase induction motors, 3-ykw. 

(5 kp), 400/440 volts with class "A’ 
insulation — IS :325-I96 i. 

71 

CM/L-2059 

26-8-1969 

1-9-1971 

31-8-1972 

The Punjab Steel Rolling Mills, Old 
Station, Baroda. 

Hot roUed mild steel medium ten “ 
silc steel and high yield strength 
steel deformed bars for concret c 
reinforcement — IS: 1139-1966. 

72 

CM/L-2065 

29-8-1969 

1-9-1971 

30-9-1972 

Kohinoor Paint Colour & Varnish 
Works, 13, R. B. Rattan Chand, 
The Mall Amritsar. 

Ready mixed paints — IS : 103-1962 

18:104-1962, IS:io6-i962, IS, 

123-1962, IS: 1188-1957, IS: 2074: 
1962. 

73 

CM/L-2069 

9-9-1969 

16-9-1971 

15-9-1972 

A. V. J. Wires Pvt. Ltd. Damodar Gar- 
dens, 8 B.T. Road, Belghoria. 

Mild steel wire for general engineering 
purposes — IS :28o-i962 

74 

CM/L-2070 

9-9-1969 

16-9-1971 

15-9-1972 

The Gujarat Iron & Steel Co. Ltd., 
Ambli Road Station, village Thaltaj 
Ahmedabad. 

Structural steel (standard quality) 

IS :226-i969 

75 

CM/L-207I 

9-9-1969 

16-9-1971 

15-9-1972 

Do. 

Structural steel (ordinary quality) 

IS 11977-1969 

76 

CM'L-2108 

14-10-1969 

1-9-1971 

29-2-1972 

Parudutham Gocoldas Plywood Co. Plywood for general purpose — IS: 303 
Pappinisseri Cannanore Distt. (Kerala) i960 

77 

CM/L-2119 

23-10-1969 

1-9-1971 

31-8-1972 

The Punjab Steel Rolling Mill, Old 
Station, Baroda. 

Cold twisted deformed steel bars for 
concretc reinforcement — IS 11786- 

1966 

78 

CM/L-2142 

12-11-1969 

I- 9 -i 97 ^ 

31-8-1972 

T, T. (Private) Ltd,, No. 78 Old Mad- 
ras Road Dooravaninagar Banga- 
lore-16. 

Wrought aluminium and aluminium 
alloy utensils Grade-SIC and NS3 — 
IS 121-1959 

79 

CM/L-2209 

14-1-1970 

16-9-1971 

15-3-1972 

Ashok Traders, Plot No. 129-C In- 
dustrial Estate, Kandivli (West) 
Bombay-67. 

DDT WDP— 18:55-1961 

80 

CM/L-2250 

10-2-1970 

16-8-1971 

15-2-1972 

The Govt. Precision Instruments 
Factory, Aishbagh Road, Lucknow 
(U.P.) 

Water Meters Inferential type ‘A’ dry 
dial 15 mm only — IS 1779-1968 

81 

GM/L-2307 

16-4-1970 

1-9-1971 

29-2-1972 

T. T. (Private Ltd. No. 78, Old Madras 
Road, Dooravaninagar Bangalorc-16. 

Domestic pressure cookers. Capacity; 
10, 7 ’ 5 , 6'5, 6-o and 5-0 liters 

only— IS :2347-i966. 

82 

CM/L-2323 

15-5-1970 

1 - 9- 1971 

29-2-1972 

Commercial Timber Industries, Sa- 
haran pur Road, Yamunanagar, Distt. 
Ambala (Haryana). 

Plywood tea-chest battnes — IS :io- 

1964 

83 

CM/L-2365 

13-7-1970 

16-9-1971 

I 5 - 3 -I 973 

The Central India Iron & Steel Com- 
pany, 38, Shilnath Camp, Indore. 

Structural steel (standard quality) 

IS :226-i969 

84 

CM/L-2371 

22-7-1970 

16-7-1971 

15-7-1972 

Avadh Plywood Industries, Bahraich 
Road, Gonda (U.P.) 

Tea-Chest plywood panels — IS :io- 

1964. 

85 

CM/L-2383 

5-8-1970 

1-9-1971 

31-8-1972 

Pampasar Distillery, India Sugars & Brandies — IS : 44J0-1967 

Refineries Ltd., Hospet Bellary 

District, (Mysore State) 

86 

CM/L-2384 

5-8-1970 

1-9-1971 

31-8-1972 

Do. 

Whiskies — IS :4449-i967 

87 

CM/L-2385 

6-8-1970 

16-8-1971 

15-8-1973 

Shree Ram Eng. & Mfg. Industries, 
Pratap Nagar Factory Area, Baroda 

Domestic gas t stoves for use with 
liuquified petroleumgases)™. 

IS 14246-1967 

88 

CM/L-2386 

10-8-1970 

1-9-1971 

31-8-1972 

Pampasar Distillery, India Sugars & 
Refineries Ltd., Hospet Bellary 
Distt. (Mysore State) 

Rectified spirit, Grade I — 15:323-1959 

89 

CM/L-2387 

10-8-1970 

16-8-1971 

15-8-1972 

Highland Metal Industries, village 
Waliv Taluka Bassin, Distt. Thana 
(Maharashtra) 

Wrought aluminium and aluminium 
alloy utensils Grade SIC. — 

IS :2i-i959 

90 

CM/L-2391 

18-8-1970 

I- 9 -I 97 I 

31-8-1972 

Shah Medical & Surgical Co. Ltd., 
Ajwa Road, Baroda. 

Needless, hypodermic— 1 £ :33i7-ig65 

91 

CM/L-2393 

19-8-1970 

1-9-1971 

31-3-1972 

Tropical Agrosystems (P) Ltd., 520/28 
Van agaram Road, Amur Madras-53. 

Endrin EC — 1310-1958 

92 

CM/L-2394 

19-8-1970 

I- 9 - 197 I 

31-8-1972 

Yogiraj Chemical Laboratories GUI 
Road, Millerganj, Ludhiana. 

Stamp pad Ink 18:393-1968 


[Part ti — 


461 I tHE GAZETTE OP INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVlNA 29, 1804 


I 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

93 

CM/L-2396 

31-8-197° 

1-9-1971 

1.5-6-1972 

Excel Industries Ltd., 184-87, Swami 
Vivekanand Road, jogeshwari 

Bombay-6o 

Malathion technical — 1 S:i832-I96i 

94 

CM/L-2397 

31-8-1970 

1-9-1971 

15-6-1972 

Do. 

Malathion EC — IS: 2567-1963 

95 

CM/L-2400 

31-8-1971 

1-9-1971 

30-11-1971 

Artee Minerals 15/7, Mathura Road, 
Faridabad (Haryana) 

Malathion emulsifiahle concentrates — 

IS: 2567-1963 

96 

CM/L-2401 

1-9- 1 970 

1-9-1971 

31-8-1972 

Andhra Steel Corpn. Ltd., Malka- 
puram Visakhapatnam Port (A.P.) 

Cold twisted deformed steel bars for 
concrete — reinforccmrni — IS : 1786- 
1966, 

97 

CM/L-2403 

9-9-1970 

16-9-1971 

15-9-1972 

Mysore Cements Ltd., Adityapatna, 
Ammasandva P.O. Tumkur Distt. 
(Mysore State). 

Ordinary portland Cement — JS : 

269-1967 

98 

CM/L-2417 

29-9-1970 

1*10-1971 

30-9-1972 

Dalima Biscuit Pvt. Ltd., Rajpura 
Distt. Patiala. 

Biscuits — IS : 1011-1968 


[No. CMD/13 : ii] 


Tf 23 *PT*?T, 1972 

rtflo STfa 3307. — TtPT WT TT TTTTtfaTT STRcfPT RTTT TTRIT (WTO farjjf) fafTTT 1955 %, fafaTT 8 % TT- 
f ar fri TTR ( 1) % T'j'Tn: wrcrfa tott #ptt *tTt % srfspjffaT fw tttt £ % TTt sngfalr T fa^RT Rfar fan; tut- 99 
TT T^TTTor fTERTL RW ^ fTTT RRT | : — 

SFHHft 

^ cs 


%H TTo HTS^TH BWT ?ffa 
Kfm 


ttFTT Tt RRf'T TT TTR ^ffa 'TcTT TTWT % *nfpT *K§/ 

% ?TT Trf'WT 3 f|T TtRTSRjT 

SI : TT RTR 


(l) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) 


1 TTTT/ TT^r— 1 3 

3-9-1956 


2 RT rnT/^- 1 5 
13-9-1956 


3 tft TTR/PeT-9 6 

18-9-1958 

4 fftmr/PH-190 
25- 5-3960 


i-a -1971 


»-». 0-1971 


*-10-1971 


<— 6— 1971 


31-8-1972 TeTRlf WJfH*? 5TT° ffa°, (t) f'TTarr Cr^PrfWT 
48/50 WTF TTT W^-2 % sfafa TT¥ SH? aft, 

RTT STfa ITff 

PR 3 

(u) fferr 

% sett, ifa tr?r sn$ 
iff 5 pft*tt>cr— 

IS : 21-1959 


30-9-1972 TRT sfaR fa%T, {**£& RTCT TT TrtejrPr 5RT 

tTTTrftrrrtR, wr Tmrr, (^ftisrfat) — 

0 fRtefPr RTfE 38/42 TTT IS : 1-1968 
^rrt far, TTi-io sfaifa 


30- 9-1972 £I=H+R fetfWT farfapR % fafTT f^fTRT 

fro, TPwft, f< 3 ^>-S 6 — 7 5 T 4 WTTT? ’tTdT'TTP 

(3T^T Tj') 41 1-1968 

31- 5-1972 fa sfarznr STqfal^T t™R wnwr (iffa T7tTT ) — 

fafapf To far°, RTTTT IS : 5 5 3-1 955 

TTTT 7 TTT 7 T, TRft I 



Sec. 3(ii)J 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4613 


(l) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) 


5 Tfr rnr/OT-208 1 
29-7-1960 


16-8-1971 15-2-1972 TTO WeTTI troj 

TO TW, 6-HWTO IS: 539-1965 


6 rrrr /cr?T— 3 38 

1-9-1961 


1-10-1071 30-9-1972 YyY’FYYtT'T (sifo %o ) TT ftrT, 1 5 ipft, 

trv , Trorc ^ 250 tYhh: ttt hY htst 

%, Tipr ethtt to 
STPOTT TFT — 

IS: 4064-1967 


7 rnqr/iT^r— 43 1 
18-7-1962 


1-8-1971 31-7-1972 STTOfYTO fYfo, ^Ff- TOTO TOH TT% JJ1| 

jtsr tYtto, tYt, ^ptet t?Y tto *ni 

TOT-24 TCFTT Tf^T ^ & 

— 

IS : 814-1967 


8 lit tTT/qH-450 
30-8-1962 


16-9-1971 15-9-1972 TYTOrT sfYfrrTT •FKH^'KW V TOY % flTO ^ifT 

hto %:>, 262 srfrotfY ErtzY fiYY * ftr tPhto-t 


TO, tYtoto-is 


froft h?Y TteT- 
IS : 996-1964 


9 ifY ITTT/t^-451 
30-8-1962 


16-9-1971 15-9-1972 


HYr ^ tot rYtt: %to 
7,5 4To (10 
flo TTo) cPF, 'F' liroft 
% flTO — 

IS : 325-1961 


10 Rttnr/tT5r-500" 
14-1-1963 


1-9-1971 31-8-1972 fc 


5To 1, ^■^9+' TTOlY 

TO, TORT ($TO) 


%TT YY hY ifY %TR, 
TT^ftrfrqTr tetopY 
250tfYT 650 Tf?ftT- 
IS : 694 (11131 1 *flr 
2) — 1964 


1 1 flY cnr/i^-538 

30-5-1963 


1-9-1971 31-8-1972 fa FT^fYlfTTT TOF^Yt ffa° r 

Ho 1, fatfop l $rrfY cfa, 
TOTT (%TO) 


TtrY#! d%fr *fk tY 
tY tY to tjer- 

>3 

farfror %ro— 

IS : 1596-1962 


12 RYtTT/FT-570 
23-8-1963 


15-9-1972 YfofaY TT'ir RFJo 

To fYfo, Tfatf To ^to 6, 

WljJT TWlT-26 


16-9-1961 




4614 


[Part II — • 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 14 . 1972 /ASVINA 22 , 1894 


(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) 


13 ^-57 5 

30-8-1963 

14 *frtnr/tr?r~ 6 i 3 
31-12-1963 


5 ift PP/pp-622 
23-1-1964 

16 ¥ftl{R/i^f-653 

28-4-1964 


17 Ptl*P/tTP -716 

29-6-1964 

18 lfr^l^T-717 

29-6-1964 


21 PT 

(i) pr (fapT W 

ht$t) 


( 2 ) Pft 
tfter ptp) 1 




PI<?PdTii? PT'-TP 
250/440 jam pr 

sflT 650 / 

Vppfpfp- 

* N> 

HP 


1 100 hN 

250/440 
Plo 


( 3 ) ORt ?ftp sfrr PR 250/440 |^PP 


pR (<fr RtP ht^) 


sfk 650 / 
1100 fr 


TT^jtpP 

ftPP 

pest hi 
] PPTftfoPP 


1-4-1971 


1-10-1971 


( 4 ) f ?ft pt 650/ 1 1 00 

P%T P T%T (<ft tfV »>o 

ql?l ) 

(pt) >R sfr pi fyfpp pppfrfy ptfrp'r — 

( 5 } 5$^ pfrft (fppr gtp "j 
PPfY} ^ 1 250/440 %PR PfaT 

( 6 ) Hta <ftP (iR T sfto 
PR pft) ('ft uRf J 
PB-fl)— 

IS : 694 (PTP ltfk 2)— 1964 
31-3-1972 f^RTI P F^FT W p??, I wt PTPPT ^5PTP (PPP 

?cftW'HltP,fVrPli-lf 5 rPT tRftftPP) 

(PoPo) IS:2062-1969 

30-9-1972 ft *ftlPP TtfpP priTsr fRr ( l) J TPff $ % 

PtPT ftfo, STTPPPT, 24 fair ST 9 TP % PTT % 

4 om (t° PPTP) RP — 

IS' 18 56— 1961 
( 2 ) RTPf $ ftfTPTf % 
fRir ^PTTP % PIT % 

ppt — 

IS : 1855-1969 


1-10-1971 30-9-1972 


16-8-1971 


15 - 8-1971 


1-8-1971 


31-7-1972 


PTToiJpo PcPI P'JP Po, 30, ftpPt'% PIT PPT-? p fpp 
pftPT PTPT ^PtT%P, PP- 'JPTTP pt PIT pfppi- 
PPT-39 IS : 1653-1964 

PTPP PT3P pftT PP Ps>, 15 fP Ptsfft 2 0 fpp[ 

26/66 tjppFp ^p%pp pipp % Pi^fr % Oirr 
trftpr, PlptP -5 PPR %) — 

IS: 779-1968 

?PtP Rtfft-p fow prp phtp pcrtt rttp (ptpp 
fpo, 28-51? tTP, ppppr, fp5P) — 

IS: 226-1969 


PRTPT SFTTP 
fP 5 B)- 

IS: 1977—1969 


(pnJKP 


1-8-1971 


31-7-1972 



Sec. 3(ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4615 


( 1 ) 


(2) 


19 lfttTE/t^T-742 
21-7-1964 

2 0 IlttnT/q;i 4-7 5 2 
31-7-1964 


21 ift^*r/qTr-7 5 5 

12-8-1964 

22 nJr/TTfr -760 

21-8-1964 


2 3 ^qH/^-763 

24-8-1964 


24 ifr tTll/TT ^-7 64 
24 - 8-1964 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


1 6 — 8—197 1 15 — 8—1972 TT o Ro, iTf^TT TI 

32, TTTFftr: fir, Pptjc, tt— 

ST4TT IS : 1310-1958 

1 _ 9— 1971 31 - 8-1972 £ft*FT Pro, 'ftTBT 5 ^ ^ ^P^ 

ffir, Ttrart, sr^rf-e? qft — • 

ITTo oft o 

IS : 2548-1968 

1 - 9-1971 31 - 8-1972 EtifT iffpFT WTTft ftfo, BTFHT 411 Bel (?T-¥FI- 

TTT (BlfSTTHTT) 

IS : 2404-1963 

16 — 9—1971 15 - 9-1971 jrfFjiT IF 1 ¥ STTTfeT STFTT 

” 50 , T- 3 s 0- 

Tft, 5TTOT DTgT 440 TtFT, 3 60 Sift! 

FFFtT 3 *f^I STRT — 

«r. 

IS : 1851-1966 

1 - 9-1971 31 - 8-1972 fT'TT TT<> pH>, ITOFTT ?)?TTcr (BTT 4 F 

29 / 30 , TTHBTTt R’SFT, foEB) — 

120 , SftoTPTI^ fn, IS : 226-1969 

9 3 F-qT^ 


1 - 9-1971 31 - 8-1972 


4T5FTT ^ETTT (BISIT- 
TT PFFB) — 

IS : 1977-1 969 


25 ETrrT/rrqr-765 
24 - 8-1964 


1 - 9-1971 3 1 - 8-197 2 f? TUT? fSt^T TtfTT fiTFTT, HT^TI ?6TIT (TFFF 

'JTrBT i i»H, jflTlTT Pfi*H ^ — 

IS: 226 - 1 969 


26 n'r IWF-1/-7 6 6 
24 - 8-1964 


1 - 9-1971 31 - 8-1972 


TCTOT ^Hcl (TWT- 

PfTT)- 

IS: 197 7—1969 


27 BtfTB'/rn?I-7 7 8 
27-8-1964 


2 8 tpT/CF4-1010 

1 0-2-1965 


1-9-197 1 31-3-1972 TTTT %iFT fT«, 33, pFo Tlt> ?FF ftsrwt 

fjfTi qiftT (cr^r- ^ Pt^ ^prirr 

I'TFT ) TtfeT TpTT % ’TFT- 

TF 4 % 4 T (irTqfilffpHT 
41 %) — 
IS:692-1 965 

15-8-197 2 ft c Tre: TtrWT srf^T Tfo T1 TTTIFfft ^5T 

pT°, ^TI^T (TffeFJI sIT— 
tm) ^TtTfsiTT IS: 1310-1958 


16 - 8-1971 



4616 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II— 


(0 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


( 5 ) 


(«) 


29 ^ trn/tT^-1015 

26-2-1965 


30 Tt t^T/V- 1101 

16-6-1965 

31 (ft^/>p-H12 

20-9-1965 


32 Rt trir/^T-1122 
6-8-1965 

33 RT tTR/tTSf-1125 
12-8-1965 


34 Rt tTtr/irsT-1126 

12-8-1965 


35 ift ^/Q^-U27 
1 2-8-1965 


15-3-1972 RtET (^Tl) fT°, 


16-3-1971 15-3-1972 AfOTOT RTET (Qmi ) TT°, TT^ft ^ RfeT (^T ’STOT 

% ) %ATf STS 1 ? rr_ 

( ^ ) 9J8AT TTiRr TRT, 1 5 
f*Pft, 20 frnff, 2 5 
f^nfV srk 40 frrfV 

( ^ ) ’ffW TTTTT ATT 
15 f^OTt OTIT- 
IS: 779-1968 

16—9—1971 15-9-1972 fe fTAT (^ftm ) :TTo fT°, ’Ft TfTTTT — 

f^ftTtT,f?[TTT (t£OTTWl) IS: 1239 (*IFr l)- 

1968 

16—g—1971 15-8-1972 TtATT Ttffjf'fiA* TAT, TVATT TrRFT TTAf % fOT* 

OTfOTT, --r Ti'fr tttrt, ttYT % tot OTtot 
mOTt '?rr‘ aOT ^ sflr sft 

50 R'Tt ?rtT 100 

OTft, ?ftT ^t otot 
art At, %at 

50 A At — 

IS: 1480-1960 

16-8-1971 15-8-1972 ATOTrfRT SFsTT Fro, *T^T ArTrfAAt-T AT TTAAAtA 

TTART, TTITTI ATAT TA- 

IS: 2567-1963 

l-g—1971 31-8-1972 fa ATt€ fafTAA' V o fr o , (^€tT (t) Hi Jf fTAJT# % 

w it-? ttn ffatTA) fTq; ottr % tit % 

6 IT, ofr 3ft Tfa, OTtPIT, TOT — 

fjfTT fTTt (AT) TRI 6 %fT^ 

^ITT % TTT % 7TTt — 
IS : 1 855-1961 sftr 
IS : 1856-1961 

1-9-1971 31-8-1972 ” ” (^) APTHT ^TtflATt 

TTAf % fT<r ^OTTT 
% ATT % TOT, Alfa 
(<W) T|ITO'Tt TTTf % 
Ft 1 ? aTt aYatT'T wf- 

TT T , TTTT, T| ?RTTT 
% TOT- , 

IS: 2581-1968 

1-9-1971 31-8-1972 t£OTTT AI° fT°, ^rA>- FTd'TFT ATAT ^T°T OTTt 

AT OTTTI, FtT! ATAT, % FT-t TOT f A% T?A1T 
(fiRTT) I n;OTfAfTAA sffa 

ITTfT Tt TIT ATT 

aotFaFtaat tttt — 
IS: 398-1961 


Sec. j(ii)l 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 

1894 46 x 7 

(>) 

(2) 


(3) 

(4) (5) 

( 6 ) 

36 

Jft 1 36 

16-8-1971 

15-8-1972 

HI ^0 1 P+I -S $f5A)| pTo, 

ETwrPnrPr, ciit'ff'tfl — 


3- 9-1965 



sttrt, wruiirr i 

IS; 1832-1961 

37 

iff tttt/itt-1 1 90 

1-9-1971 

31-8-1972 %-T TT 'Elf- 

^f Tf f 'ilHpIT'iNfT 


6-1-1966 



TT?Tlf , 110 , 

^3f ^of — 





RTk (to To) 

IS: 562-1962 

38 

iff mr/t^-i 191 

1-9-1971 

31-8-1972 

;» ) i 

sff tt^t iff TTgrT- 


6-1-1966 




IS: 561-1962 

39 

iff OTT/tT?T-l 284 

1-10-1971 

30-9-1972 

pT TURU ifpR try liPr iv-’j 

htti-t ygffTrff xrtf 


27—6— 1966 



flT°, 7TPTTTT, 24-T13TTT 

% pTI ^ITR A HR 





(To TETH) I 

% xit- 






IS: 2266-1963 

40 

Tf rnr/ir^-130 3 

16-8-1971 

15-8-1972 

f? T1TTT, 

<T#7T 


28-7-1966 



l^pETT TITRy ( ?ff*rTr ) 

IS: 2083—1 962, 





Pfo, TT felfTT, PlT tty, 






ffTRlT, HERS (^o To ) | 


41 

iff rnT/iT'7-13 20 

16-8-1971 

15-8-1972 

ir-ifoT ^■furmr'T iff 

k 7T iff ttt TOR- 


30-8-1966 



tjfff %fTE?T (FIT), q[-3 

IS: 56 1-1962 





tfy, ^tP^t Tf'T'T- 






Wte, TOTC -2 (An tt) 1 


42 

iff ^11/^^-1497 

1-9-1971 

31-8-1972 

stTr^t Am, tr, 5 Prof ?r?r, 

fqrcRt ^TfaPm % 


23-8-1967 



TTTtfd— 1 (TTlEl) 1 

TTT, tri? TT* iff ffy- 






IS: 21-1959 

43 

iff tJT/tpl-1500 

1-9-1971 

31-8-1972 

C^rffTr^rg & Ttf- 

tr irgyr- 


25-8-1967 



ursyif, 1 1 o-^yfEj'Tg 

IS: 1308-1958 





\?£z, (To To ) 


44 

iff inr/l^r-1503 

(-9-1971 

31-8-1972 

qk i£Pt tfPnr fag, Tfg'iT 

if ITT! tFTR (tFR? 


30-8-1967 



tfy, TRIP l s l 616 , f jf?TT 

Put) 





THT) 1 

IS: 226-1969 

45 

iff TTTr /CJ^T— 15 04 

1-9-1971 

31-8-1972 

jj jy 

1RT-TT ffirff (TTlTRT 


30-8-1967 










IS : 1977-1969 

46 

iff mr/^-1514 

16-9-1971 

15-9-1972 

ft ffcfpRT f4F^d Tlo Plo, 

PtFJS- 


15-9-1967 



tTJT^frr^ t'R, Tiff, TSTIT- 

IS: 1011-1968 





50 1 


47 

iff xr*T/in?r-1515 

1-10-1971 

31-3-1972 

yiPra ^ffpRfkt T^Rf, 

qrff % *ffcx, 15 ftrtff 


15-9-1967 



2614, ijiutt fry trx, 

irnpr ipp to *fj- 





totex i 

ttPr STTfl IT — 






IS: 779-1968 

48 

iff tTTT/ir^-1539 

1-9-1971 

31-8-1972 

fknff ftrtPw ^ 

3 ®^ iff *fk Tffwff 


6-10-1967 



xPr fko, srynjx (yrsp) 

% Pru TFff qff dfw 





tPtt Pm, 

(TIFT ifrtd OT 1 HIV 





(crPmrrf) i 

tr Jjn) ’Em* *tff 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II- 


461 » 


(!) ( 2 ) (3) (4) (5) (6) 


49 ?fr TTTT/qTT— 15 4 0 
6-10-1967 


50 # 1 6 1 9 

12-1-1968 

51 ^^R/t^T-1678 
22-4-1968 

52 tr?T/t^T— 1715 
12-6-1968 


53 *fttr*r/q?r-i7i6 

12-6-1968 

54 *ff T[R/<T?r— 1725 
15-6-1968 

55 1752 
22-7-1968 

56 1 763 
14-8-1968 


5 7 # TTfr/^— 1764 

14 - 8-1968 


^fr^/t^T-1772 

29-8-1968 


1-9-1971 

1-9-1971 

16-6-1971 

16-6-1971 

16-6-1971 

16-9-1971 

16-7-1971 

16-8-1971 


16-8-1971 


foft OT%t, Upti 
51#, 12,5; 15 

#HTT tHlC 5T# — • 
IS: 774-1964 


31-8-1972 


31-8-1972 


15-9-1972 

15-12-1971 


fao# forfiro rrur froR- 

fro f%o, (^ro) 

Tfffor snofe feir, 

(^ifWTTT) 


worn ofvpr% fofojo 

(’ft# 

IS: 2556 (TTW 2 % 
10) — 1967 


^ TTf^*pf spt qrra#q- cp3r 

1 1 o-4r%orr 55 — 

(TfoJTo) I IS: 1310—1958 

^ETPT # # pSHH P-d^P — 

Ttf, OoOR OsR | IS: 829-1965 


04 <3N<lY ?4)Pu<l%r Epo {{ TOTT (TRO 

TTo f%o, 109, frrCtRT TPT f%Rl) — 

Tt5, 4^<0'6, (JT55T (To IS: 226-1969 
OmIT) ) I 


15-12-1971 


(irrarw 

foRi) — 

IS: 1977-1969 


15-9-1972 

15-7-1972 


15-8-1972 


^rr Tr^Tonr rn* pw, 

t%T foo (*fw) TTo f%o, 

22/l, iftTTOR fR, 

OTtOTH— 1 3 I 

oofr oCn Oo, 

% hpi%, 
or? fir, OPR-OR^- 1 4 I 


fo%£ OTIT- 
IS: 828-1966 
’TpTOt % 1 %Tt ^rri- ^ 
OTR #r «j% — 
IS: 1989-1967 

(o) ofXRTRTOR sflT 
UTOcnOR RTT 
*dO'<rtT?>R,oKoT% — 
IS: 3829-1966 
(or ) slfiipsr 

TR 0 % TTFT 
81W, SR OT% — 
IS: 4510-1968 


15-8-1972 


OTHR Xh tfwiX Vo, 
JpRT FRT % RR%, 
or?rpr, oRr-oXi- i 4 i 

fc fof%TT OR 4 1 f%o, 
(?TR % OK #T TRTT 
fipm) 6/TT, # it- TtT, 
#5PR (§0#) I 


tprRr Tf^f 5TT^T 
TT# % fr-TO TT'*T% — 
IS: 3830-1970 

ftrdrfr w too ooff 
% f%t[ wrro # or 
OT% otwot 

% f%T ?RR % clR — 
IS: 398-1961 


58 


1-9-1971 


31-8-1972 


Sire. 3(H)] 


(l) 


( 2 ) 


59- *ft^R/<SR-1861 

12-12-1968 

60. *ft^JT/r(H-1884 

31-12-1968 


61. *fttpT/t*5T-1947 
31-3-1969 

62. trxr/tT^— 195 0 
31-3-1969 

63. lfVtTTT/t^r-2013 
9-7-1969 


64. RttJR/tTR-2020 
15-7-1969 

65. tfterR/'TR-2026 
28-7-1969 


66. tfttTR/rrR-2034 
28-7-2969 

67. t^r/^-2046 
18-8-1969 


68. tft IJR/ieR-20 49 
18-8-1969 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 

( 3 ) 


4619 


( 4 ) 


( 5 ) 


(6) 


1-9-1971 


1-7-1971 


1-9-1971 


1-9-1971 


16-7-1971 


16-9-1971 


16-8-1971 


15-8-1971 


16-8-1971 


1-9-1971 


31-8-1972 %R eras ft ft ft tJRR TRUT — 

TfMl^dR, 110 -fgfc^ IS-' 564-1961 

RR (RoRo ) I 

30- 6-1972 fft-TftfofT TT^T R^o, WTTCR (*Rt) gra 

fRo, rtrrr, jwt ftr, ■ Rtfi t *jr ttt rttrr 
5TRTT— 6 TIPERTSR 4. f \ 'A 7 5 

5CftT 100 fRtft TIK- 
IS’. 3989-1967 

31- 8-1972 fc£R f^tflREfTR mrg- RR 4 RIR#fRt7JT3(S RR- 

TffdKRR 110-fS%RR f'TTTfEl RR — 
(RoRo ) IS: 1507-1966 

31-8-1972 „ eifrjR TR TTRRRtR (fa 

ST — 

IS: 1307-1958 

15-1-1972 ft eras ITT Rtfftft RTRRT RT9T TI% ^5 

RTo fRo, 44/46, frfe;RR WET *tft fcR RP# 

TRIR, RtifWrf TH TlRfR T fRR 3% 

<— 2 (Ro Ro) ( JtT, RTi(R %TR 2 

fRRt R 6 frft d+ — 
IS: 814-1967 

15-3-1972 ferarr RT? 6 Tf T’T 5 SR, 12- trfvjs TT TtRRRtR ^fasTT 
fsfefRR irfw, Try; IS: 1310-1958 
tPrir (ttrtrtr)^ 

15-2-1 972 RWRTTR RWtH (Rio) Pro, (t) Sr, ^ 

8tt ftR, Rgr ftr, tptr, Rift ^fr — 

S 1 WC amRK-sfWR (IT ) Rtft* St Tft 

TS, Rtft ^ft- — 

ersr^Rkft 
(r) RtftR St sjft 
R$R R^t — 

IS: 1988-1962 

15—8—1972 ufsR'f eras 0 fRo, 4 Rtz "ftRT — 

18, fpRR ftR, RF3S ftR, IS: 1836-1961 
RSTR-2 

15-8-1972 fc ?RTtff TlR'ltfdd TTJsff Tf fRir firf^rET 

RtR TtRfRR RtRT^ff fRo, RIRTT — 1 

^RTRft, RRpR RTTR, fRRT IS: 2052-1968 
MJ (RlJCTFRl) 

31-8-1972 %WGR Rffc Rto %RtTTR RTOTTR Ttft’JS Rtfc — 
eras WR fteR IS: 269-1967 

fRo, RRRRRT STTRT; Tfo 
Ro Ro 6 , Tjft T^Rt ETT^F, 
fRRT R ' ORRR T (do To) 



4620 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINa 29, 1894 [Part It— 

(l) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) 

15-8-1972 fa TWTTtfcr JjTmff TT fnrr — 

lO^faHl FfaTR^t %o, IS: 1374-1968 
?W'faT 6TTTTT *F1TT, faltrt 1 

sriw?, (tgr tot)i 

15-8-1972 (TT«) tffa TTt FfeT 3 . 7 

far°, 2e/22, TClfTT Tfa, fTo ( 5 ?T IT); 
fanH^jT ¥TTAR, 440/440 IT 

—5 (nfamBTf) 1 ^oft % Ttar — 

IS: 325-1961 

31-8-1972 fa 'farR frfarr farr, wn % fanj n 4 
JTI'TT sfal^iTfffaT I ^TraiTT ^FTRT ^V 

RET TBTT wfr sfir 
TTHTT TFP4 
3TTR1 'Ft faf^T flfw- 
IS: 1139-1966 

30-9-1972 TI W qrfai?r fop; fafafcl TURRET — 

*6#, 13-TFR^T T5FT IS: 103-1962; 

^RC, faTM, V*icHH IS: 104-1962; 

IS: 106; 1962; 

IS: 103-1962; 

IS: 1188-1957; 

IS: 2074-1962 

15-9-1972 tr 0 sfto W TTo %(,, THTPT '('ifiPwlOT Wff 

wfBrc *rr£r, 8 £t<> % fapr % 

Tfa, sfarTtfam I TTT — 

IS: 280-1962 

15-9-1972 fa ’fJETT STEPT Fffal *F° ^FTRl (*im 

faro, Tfa wmm, ftiW ) — 

Tfa TEST, I IS: 22 6-19 69 


7 5. 

2071 

16-9-1971 

15-9-1972 

It 

TOT SFTTcT (lTTOTT°T 


9-9-1969 




fam.) — 






IS: 1977-1969 

76. 

tfa BTT/q^T-2108 

1-9-1971 

29-2-1972 

\ JTTfaT jftfHTra - MliTS 

FTTFJT wff $ fapj 


14-10-1969 



^o, 4“Ilfa^Cl, wk farin’, 






(%T=r) i 

IS: 303-1960 

77. 

t^ct/tt^T— 2 1 1 9 

1-9-1971 

31-8-1972 

fa 'fan* *€far TtfaHT fara - , 

WTT % faflT 37 ft 


23-10-1969 



jrm ar^fat i 

TTtft TFTTT trfojT- 


IS: 1786-1966 


69. CTTT/tT^r-205 2 16-8-1971 

18-8-1969 


70. Ffl qTT/TT^r— 20 5 8 1-9-1971 

26-8-1969 


71. ift (tjt/iFT-2059 1-9-1971 

26-8-1969 


72. iff qTT/tfaT-2065 1-9-1971 

29-8-1969 


73. ift TT /^T— 2069 16-9-1971 

9-9-1969 


74. tft t^/lfal-2070 16-9-1971 

9-9-1969 


Sec. 3(H)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


78- TTjr/rT^-2142 

12-11-1969 


1-9-1971 31-8-1972 


(iW&z) ffto, To 78, 
ifTTFft 

'HR, ^Tffk-16 


79- $1 TR/l^r-2209 16-9-1971 15-9-1972 


14-1-1970 

80. *ftlHT/T”T- 2250 
1 ft- 2— 1 9 7 0 


81- ^q?T/^-2307 

16-4-1970 

82. tff ^/qW-2323 
15-8-1970 

83. tftq?T/H?T-2305 
13-7-1970 


16—8—1971 15-2-1972 


1-9-1971 29-2-1972 


1-9-1971 29-2-1972 


16-9-1971 15-3-1972 


84. ol qrr/i^r -2371 ie- 7-1971 15-7-1972. 


22-7-1970 


85. TTrr/q^T— 2383 1-9-1971 31-8-1972 


5-8-1970 


srcitv #o i29- 

^l%iT5r vtfftsf) 

(qfiftPT ) ^^f-67 4 

ft 

VV=ff, TW4TIT Tft, WT31 
(t?o To) 

tt( (mite) ftro,^o 78, 

tfroT TUFT ft¥, 

TTT, f «T5fft-16 

iw tVn m ftwrc 

to, mpn w, 

ft sfan «nwr nw 

Vo, 3 8-VfftFTTT 'fPT, 

•rgnrr Tft, TfinsT (t °sr °) 

WRR fjFI5Rt tfftTT 
TjTHr ftriRT^ftr ftr <>, 
{ftTEfe, 3?ii £l ftm 


fr^rt iT^ftlwr sift 
grr, trrf ifV 

Sfft tlrf t^r 3 — 

IS: 21-1959 
ft ft ft 

IS: 565-1961 
Tuft % ifaR, wnrrftcT 

y | t l l IT TF^SEp Z MM 

15 frnfV— r- 
IS: 779-1968 

’fm ftnj 

Trnpji Ht <rfpit— 

IS: 10-1904 

vnr «fr ftftrcff % fan 

ISl 110-1904 

1ft 'l Hr JFTTCf (THV 
ftftT) — 

IS: 226-1969 

TFT ftfecft % <T1TC5¥ 

'O 

% fEi% — 

IS: 10-1964 
wtftqt — 

IS: 4450-1967 


86. Tf Cftr/<Tft-2384 1-9-1971 31-8-1972 


5-8-1970 


87- ift tftT/c^T-2385 16-8-1971 15-8-1972 


6-8-1970 


88. iTTf/^ft-2336 

10-8-1970 


1-8-1971 31-8-1972 


TPTftft ^ftTT SJT# 

tfts' ftrofftf fa o, fji 
twftt fan trt) 

TTR iftft o tniT Tpj O 
TTTWK, TTdftl 
trftrr, Tffti 

TPTRft ftrfewft, 
nfa fGBTsFftfa fa o, 
ifftftr, 3 m i ft fan 
trt) 


ftffawf — 

IS: 4449-1967 

sfticr 4 t ?r 

qfa Tfaj foi 

— 

IS: 4246-1967 

Tftuftfar ftqfcj ift-i 
IS: 323-1959 



[Part II — 


4622 

THE 

OAZETTE OF INDTA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 

[Part II — 

( 1 ) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

’ (3) 

( 6 ) 

89 

tni/cnr— 2387 

16-8-1971 

15-8-1972 


FlTET try^riWT ifa 


10-8-1970 



ttRtt, dM'hi sniffa, 

Ochr+tf-iRR frpsr tjfj 





RETT (RiJKI^) 

Rrld far— ttR 






Rt— 






IS: 21-1959 

90 

ift trir/rTvr— 2391 

1-9-1971 

"31-8-1972 

^Ds+m ret nfcraM 

smtcT^ ([rreRtfrifR’r) 


18-8-1970 



410 %o, irwmtT, arfhTT 

wit — 






jS: 3317-1965 

91 

0?T/(Tvr-2392 

1-9-1971 

31-3-1972 

1 fs cl tt'ilfrtWHt (sir 0 ) 

CffffT RT 1FRTtfl4 ffST 


19-8-1970 



f% 0 , 520/28, SWOTR Tff, 

SR — 





IMIR ERTR-SS 

IS: 1310-1958 

62 

lfrt^r/^2394 

1-9-1971 

31-8-1972 

TtfwT 

Wt fa? 


19-8-1970 



fw ^ftRrnrr 

PR#— 






IS: 393-1968 

93 

tfr HR/tpT-2390 

1-9-1971 

15-6-1972 

R'ttH fa 0 , 184— 



31-8-1970 



187, prrfr fir 

IS: 1832-1961 





■jfFhnrd--»wt-60 


94 

^ t(ir/^T-23B7 

1-0-1071 

15-6-1972 

n 

mmMtu *r qrrorifa 


31-8-1970 




ft* BR — 






IS: 2567-1963 

95 

tfr qR/tTvf- 2400 

1-9-1971 

30-11-1971 

srmfr Pfttht, i 5/7, E^pr 

HP4lf«Ur>T RT qmFftR 


31-8-1971 



TtR, 9^41415 (j<0|U||) 

?fa be — 






IS: 2567-1963 

90 

# I»R/tTW-2401 

1-9-1971 

31-8-1972 

WVt Rtii-T 'td cfHvH fa 0 , 

'ti'-tli RRvFT % Rft[ 


1-9-1971 



EmTTR, p3an<4ihdd*t 

ETtft wira 





93<dil$ (5fT 0 51 0 ) 

RfW — 






IS: 1786-1966 

97 

if! ttrr/trsr-2403 

16-9-1971 

15-9-1972 

ffiu'ii fa 0 , imfctpRnT 

WI faf&R? ifafe 


9-9-1970 



WXl THJsT 31-hRT, TtR/T 

IS: 269-1967 





fiWT (%TTF5R) 


98 

tftlTR/!£T~2417 

1-10-1971 

30-9-1972 

RRifhdT Rio fcT 0 , 

ffajir— * 


29-9-1970 



facTT 

IS: 1011-1968 


[ffo tfr ^ ¥T/l3:i2] 

S.O.3308. — In pursuance of sub-regulation (i) of Regulation 8 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Re- 
gulation, 1955) as amended from time to time, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that twentytwo lincences, particulars 
of -which are given in the following Schedule, have been granted duting the month of May 1972 authorizing the licensees to use the 
Standard Marks: 

Tub Schedule 


SI. 

No. 

Licence No. 
(CM/L-) 

Period of ValidiLy 

From to 

Name and Addres of the Licensee 

Article/Proccss Covered by the 
Licences and the Relevant 

IS: Designation 

~(X) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

I 

CM/L-3058 

9-5-1972 

16-5-1972 

I5-5-I973 

Sree Venkuleswara Minerals Pvt. Ltd., 
3 F.iaiya Mudali St., Tpndiarpet, 
Madras-S i (Ofiice: 337 Thambu 
Chetty Street, Madras 1) 

, Endrin emulsiilable concentrates — , 

IS: 1310-1938 


Sec. 3 ( 11 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 4633 


(I) 

Cz) 

( 3 ) 

( 4 ) 

( 5 ) 

( 6 ) 

2 

CM/L-30S9 

9-5-1972 

16-5-1972 

15 - 5 - 1973 ! 

Gon Pesticides Pvt. I td. - Fulorda, 
Margao (Goa) [Office: Chovvgule 
House, Marmugao Harbour(Goa)] 

BHC water dispersible pow der con- 
centrates — 

IS: 562-1962 

3 

CM/L-3060 

9-J-1972 

16-5-1972 

I 5 - 5 -I 973 

Gujatat Si ilc Co-operative Market- 
ing Society Ltd., Narol, Narol 
Vatwn Road, Ahmcdahad (Office: 
Sahakar Bhnvan, Relief Road, 
Ahmedabad-i) 

DDT dusting povdcrsIS: 564-1961 

4 

CM/L-3061 

9 - 5-1972 

16-5-1972 

15 - 5-1973 

Gujarat Stale Cooperative Marketing 
Society Ltd., Narol, Narol Vatwa 
Road, Ahmedabad (Office : Saha- 
kar Bh avail. Relief Rd., Ahmcda- 
bad-i). 

2, 4-D-sodium technical . — 

IS: 1488-1969 

5 

CM/L-3062 

9 - 5-1972 

16-5-1972 

15 - 5-1973 

Spbereo Sports, Pvt, Ltd., 52, 
Gcrigu Reddy Road, Egmore, 
Madrus-8 

(i) Footballs (laceless) 

(li) Vollcballs (laceless) — 

IS: 417-1969 

6 

CM/L-3063 

9 - 5-1973 

16 - 5-1972 

I 5 - 5 -I 973 

Manncy Industries, Alwal, P.O. 
Bolaram, Secunderabad-TO, 

(Andhra Pradesh) [Office: 1B7, 
Mahatama Gnndlii Road, Sceun- 
drabad (Andhra Pradesh)] 

Steel windows of 10 HS 12 sige 
only.— IS: 1038-1968 

7 

CM/L-3064 

9 - 5-1972 

16 - 5-1972 

15 - 5-1973 

R. Gac Electrodes Ltd., Golf Links Covered electrodes for metal arc 
Rd., Kawdiar, Trivandraum- (Kerala) wlcding of structural steel of the 

•ize 4 mm only— IS: 814-1970 

8 

CM/L-3063 

16-5-1972 

16-3-1972 

15 - 5-1973 

Chandigarh Spun Pipe Co., 29, 
Industrial Area, Chandigarh 

Reinforced concrete, heavy-duty 
non-pre»*ure pipe, 450, 600 and 
900 mm size* clan NP3 — 

IS: 438-1971 

9 

CM/L-3066 

19-5-1972 

1-6-1972 

31 - 5-1973 

The Indian Textile Paper Tube Co 
Ltd., 19, Perali Road, Virudhu- 
nagar, (Tamilnadu) 

Warp tube* for use on aluminium 
plug type spindles — IS : 3623-1971 

10 

GM/L-3067 

19-5-1972 

1-6-1972 

31 - 5-1973 

T.H. (Overseas) Traders, 5/53, Ncta- 
ji Nagar, Calcutta-40. 

Tea-cheBt metal fittings — 

IS:io— 197 ° 

II 

CM/L-3068 

19 - 5-1972 

16-5-1972 

15 - 5-1973 

Shrcc Laxmi Iron A Steel Works, 
Pvt, Ltd., 88, Rabindra Sarani, 
Liluah, Howrah (Office : P 16, 
Kalakar Street, Calcutta 7) 

Structural steel (standard quality) — 
IS: 226-1969 

12 

GM/L-3069 

19 - 5-1972 

16-5-1972 

I 5 - 5 -I 973 

Do 

Structural steel (ordinary quality) — 
IS: 1977-1969 

13 

GM/L-3070 

3 I- 5 -I 972 

16-6-1972 

15-6-1973 

Devidayal (Sales) Pvt. Ltd., Tulsiram 
Gupta Miill.s Estate, Rcay Road, 
Darukhana, Bombay-10 

BHC dusting powers — IS : 561-1962 

14 

CM/L-3071 

31-5-1972 

1-6-1972 

31 - 5-1973 

Surrcndra Sales Bombay Pvt. Ltd., 
(Licensees of Aeron Steel Rolling 
Mills), 2nd Pokhran Road, Maji- 
wada Village, Thana (Office : 24 
Baroda Street, Bombay-9) 

Structural steel (standard quality) — 
IS: 226-1969 

15 

CM/L-3072 

31-5-1972 

1-6-1972 

31 - 5-1973 

Do. 

Structural steel (ordinary' quality) — 
IS: 1977-1969 

16 

CM/L-3073 

31-5-1972 

1-6-1972 

31 - 5-1973 

Kumar Iron & Steel (P) Ltd,, Zoo 
Road, Gauhati (Assam) 

Structural Steel (standard quality) — 
IS: 226-1969 

17 

CM/L-3074 

31-5-1972 

1-6-1972 

31 - 5-1973 

Do, 

Structural steelffordinary quality) — 
IS: 1977-1969 

16 

GM/L-3D75 

31-5-1972 

16-6-1972 

15 - 6-1973 

Timber & Plywood Co. Ltd, No. 1, 
Nimak Mahal Road, Kiddcrpore, 
Calculta-23 (Officer : 6 Mission 
Row, Calcutta- 1) 

Tca-chest'metal fittings — IS :ic-i970 

19 

CM/L-3076 

31-5-1972 

1-6-1972 

31 - 5-1973 

Srcc Maniunatha Pulverisers, 62 3 
Industrial suburb, Yeshwantapur, 
Bangalore-22 

BHC duBiting powders — 18:561-1962 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II— 


20 CM/L-3077 
3I-5-1972j 


31 CM/L -3078 

31-5-1972 


1-6-1972 3 1- j- 1973 The Ahmedabad Mfg.A Calico Print- Rigid non-mctallic conduits for 

ing Co. I .td./Calico'' Chemicals & electrical installations, 19 mm and 
Plastics Div., Anik^Chembur 25 mm sizes — 18:2509-1963. 

Bombay-74 (AS) ! 


16-6-1972 15-6-1973 


Jeypore Timber & Vonoer Mills 
Pvt.Ltd, P.O. Jeypore p.O. & Rly, 
Stn. Naharkatia (Assam) [Office; 
Dihrugarh, Disst. Lakhimpur 
(Assam)] 


22 CM/L-3079 16-6-1972 15-6-1973 Metal & Alloys Industries Tinsukia (1) Steel wheel borrows, singlewheel 

31-5-1972 (Assam) type — IS: 2431-1963 

(2) Steel wheel barrows double 
wheel type — IS: 4184-1967. 

[No. CMD/I 3 :it] 

triTo ifto;i 3 08 . — TTT fTTT TZ TIA^T TT6T> TFTT (TTPTT fTfrTT, 1955 $ fafTTT 8 

% ( 1 ) % TTTR TRTtT TRT TRT # TF T 'dftJ'jfTT fm TTTT %_ f% N^Tr T f%T 2 2 % 

tit f, yrr^Tsrrfriff tfr beef ijfr ^ tt stRtfr bt^ jt£ , 1972 $ Fftw t^t $ 1 




tet fiwr trtr 


#£TTT iff ITTfsT j] 


tmc&Tsnrt' it tr tflr ttt rhir $ nifft 

T^/JlftUTT iftT 
T WWRft 

IS 1 w hr 



1 <#|-tttT/(TT -305 8j 

9 - 5-1972 


2 iff tTJT/tTsr -30 5 9 ]] 
9 - 5-1971 


3 #tnr/bR -3060 

9 - 5-1972 


4 ift 1 R/TT -3061 
9 - 5 - 1972 . 


16-5-1971 15-5-1973 T7$ER FeRR DT° rtf^T ET TlTTltE ifcr 

fT°, 3, S#TT BTEft ?T— 

Ttfr? wrfc, ttr-si, IS : 1310-1958 

(TTFfTT ; 337, TRt 

urm-i) 

16-5-1972 15-5-1973 TfTl Tl° FRo, [eft ^ jft 

trttt (tftn ) , iFr — 

(TTT?RT : n>tj% pETT, is : 5 62-19 62 

TRJTiT T^TRIT? (tfm) I 

16-5-1972 15-5-1973 TTETT TRT RRTI^Fd'T FT# tjET qTTST — 

fcr iftTFT#! Fe°, ttH IS : 564-1961 
TTtE Tim ftT, TJERTTTT 
(RtFJ'T : T^TR TTT, 

FjEfaiTt?, TRTRTTT- 1 ) 

16-5-1972 15-5-1973 tpRET TFT ETRirtfer TTT- 2, 4 -tV, iftfTTT ER7- 

fRl (flBNil FRo, TTtR, — 

BTtR T3TT TtT, IS: 1488-1969 

TIT ('FPT’rRT : ETTTR 
W, TIE, TfTTT- 

TTT— l) 


16 - 5-1972 


Sec. 3(i!)3 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 , 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


5 tfttnr/iTT-3062 16-5-1971 


9-5-1972 


6 tft Fir/tTT-3063 16-5-1972 


9-5-1972 


7 ft qrr/rr^-3064 
9-5-1972 


8 ft cnT/n[T-30 65 
16-5-1972 


9 ft n?T/iTT-3066 
19-5-1972 


10 ft tnr/iTT-3067 
19-5-1972 


16-5-1972 15-5-1973 ftfkf FFtf T TTo fro, 52, (l) JiTl t(tETT 

ftT, TTq-rfrT, TJTT-S TfeT)- 

( 2 ) snrtaTT (skr 

Tffrl) 

IS : 417-1969 

1 6-5-1972 1 5-5-1973 TTFT7 *FTT?f FT fiTsfFTt, 

TTTFT, ff TTTTTTTT- 1 0 TFT 1 0 T^T rrq- 12 

(5rto5To) (TFqffFT: 187, TITT TFTt — 

TSTcTT Tiff TFT, fflTTT- IS : 1038-1968 
TIT (llto ST o) I 

16-5-1972 15-5-1973 TITo TF skftTT ffo fkE EWET TFT TFT fTTTT 

ff t ■ tar, Frfenr, % ?ftft Ft wf 

3 (%tt) tFkr % fff 

tFe/tt, trr 4 ffft 

FOTF TFT — 

IS : 914-1970 

1 6-5-1972 15-5 1973 fftFF EFT TT^T F<>, 29, TTpFT FFf? fr ^E?t 

fTfajTT njw, fflFf I Tfjit TIT ffTT TFT 

T[rT TT^T, 450, 600 

fk 90 0 faff 
F, faftN. p. — 

IS: 458-1971 

1-6-1972 31-5-1973 ft ?faTT TTFTIT'T flT TTT ^faffTT 'TT HT^T 

To fao, 1 9 klft TTT, TFTT F T-TET F faf 
THT, (TfaTTTT) TEt Ft TpTTT — 

IS : 3625-1971 

1-6-1972 31-5-1973 ft° (ftTCffa) £?f, TTT Ft f faff % ETFJ % 

5/5 3 koftETT FTliTT- f T7t> T — 

40 IS : 10 — 1970 


11 ft inr/^-3068 
19-5-1972 


19-5-1972 


16-5-1972 15-5-1973 ft TSft TTTTT TCTTTfFTTT (TTTF 

TW TTo faf o, 88 , Tfkf, fFTT ) — 

EFfaff, fTTTT, fTTTT (FT- IS: 226-1969 
T’TTT : ft- 16 , FTTFTTj 
F^fa, ftwt-7) 


12 ft 3069 16-5-1972 15-5-1973 


fCTTT ?FTKT J (TTHKW 

fFFT) — 

IS : 1977-1969 


13 ft ^j^~3070 
31-5-1972 


16-6-1972 15-6-1973 TT° ff°, ft TT ft *FTT qTTTT- 

§FTft TFT Ijcrr fHW J.&Z, IS : 561-1962 
ftq ffa, TTSOTTF, T 4 Tf -10 


4&2<$ THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21. W2/ASV1NA 29. 1894 [Part 11— 


(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

14 

tft FTr/iTT-3071 
31-5-1972 

1-6-1972 

31-5-1973 

F r ~F FFTp 37 ° pT a , 
(rrTr tPIF FTPf 1 ! Pf?F % 
FT^TFFrPt), ^FEt 7TFFT 
FtF, FIFtTlTl FrT, FITT, 
(TTTTfT : 24, TTfTl FftF, 
TTTf-9) 

FTTH ?7TrT (HrFTT 
PtHF) — 

IS : 226-1969 

15 

ift iJF/fF- 3072 
31-5-1972 

1-6-1972 

31-5-1973 

F~F Tm 31 o 
('t'TT TTtF FtpFF pF5F % 
FT^FFEUTt) £FFt TITO 
FtT, FITtflFT FrT, F17T 
(TTFIFT: 24, TftTT TjlF, 
TT^f — 9 ) 

FTTH T c TrF ( FPjr- 
FH pTHF) — 

IS : 1977-1969 

16 

ift FT /FF— 307 3 
31-5-1972 

1-6-1972 

31-5-1973 

f FIT FTFFT fu^ r^fF (31° ) 

Pf°, ^fiT, FtzrPr, 

(FFF ) 

FFF7T T'NTT (fTTT 

Ftef) — 

IS : 226-1969 

17 

tft l[F/($F-3074 
31-5-1972 

1-6-1972 

31-5-1973 

n )] 

FTTH ^FTrar (FrTKF 

Ptff) — 

SI : 1977-1969 

18 

lit tnT/cr?T-307 5 
31-5-1972 

16-6-1972 

15-6-1973 

fFfTT ft? CFrfTF T°pFo, 
To I.FtFEFTFCHFfPF- 
TJT, TFTFT-23, (FTT?- 
FT : 6, pFFF TTT, TF- 
TFT-l) 

FIT Ft TpTTT TpF^ 
FpFTTT — 

IS : 10-1970 

19 

ift T(F/(JF-3076 
31-5-1972 

1-6-1972 

31-5-1973 

Ft F771T 5‘TTTTF, 62, 
TTfFJTF FT 7, FFTT7T 
TTFk-22 

Ft ft Ft T F T TE3FT — 
IS : 561-1962 

20 

lftr[F/<TF-3077 

31-5-1972 

1-6-1972 

31-5-1973 

P? FTFTTTTT F-T a fu? FpTFt 

fTfTF TTo fFo, 

%pFTt %PF7FF ft? 'FTfeT 
f^Tt-FF, FfTT FF^T, 
TFTf-74 (l^F) 

pFTTt FFTITff % pTt 
FT fF FFPtF FR- 
FrfFFl, 19 pFJft Ft< 
25 fafft FRF Tit — 
IS : 2509-1963 

21 

tft FIT /F'T— 307 8 
31-5-1972 

16-6-1972 

15-6-1973 

FJF pTFTT tth TfTFT pTEF 
FI fFo, SEPFE %F, 
FrrjTF sftr ^:f# 

TfTTfFTT (FFF) (TTTPfF : 
fyTFFT, pFFT F’TtFJT, 

(fff) 1 

FIT Ft 'tPg'Tt % pFT 
q-pTSFl — 

IS : 10-1970 

22 

tft t^/CpT-30 79 
31-5-1972 

16-6-1972 

15-6-1973 

*TJF F7F1F pTfjtTT, PFF- 

gfJjFT (FFF) 

(F) Ft| Ft ^fTFlft, 
1JU Tpf^ TTFt — 

IS : 2431-1963 
(F) Wt| Ft FTlFTfr, 

Ft tP^tt ftfT — 

IS ; 4184-1967 


[F° tft W ^t / 1 3 ! U] 


Sec, 3(i'i}] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDTA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4627 


New Delhi tha 4th September 1972 

S.O. 3309 In pursuance of sub-rcynintion (4) of regulation 14 of the Indian Standards Institution CCertification Marks) Regulations 
1955, as amended subsequently, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that Certification Marks Linccnce No. CM/L- 
2991 particulars of which are (th en below, has been cancelled with effect from 1 April 1972 as the licensee was not able to operate 
the ISI Certification Marks Scheme: — 


The Schedule 


Licence No. and date 


Name and Address of the Licen- Article/Process covered by the Relevant Indian Standard 
see licence 


CM/L-2991 Alfa Rubber Co. Ltd., Nagar- PVC insulated CHcavy duty! IS: 1554 (Part IV 1 964 Speeifica- 

24 March 1972 goan, Lanavla, Disrt, P<xina electric cables for working tion for PVC insulated (heavy 

('Maharashtra'), having (heir voltages up to and including duty) electric cables for working 
Rcgd. Office at 2nd Floor, 1 106 volts voltages upto and including 

Ilimalava House, 23 Kasturba 1 100 volts ( revised) 

Gandhi Marg, New Dclhi-r. 


[No.CMDyss ; 299 i(ET)] 

E^ ftFTt, 4 fm^<, 1972 

EE° 4fTo 3309 : — ETT if EWtftTE EP/TtE EfEET EEET EEPEE PtfEEE, 1955% fEf~ERE , 1 4 % d ' lPlPd EE ( 4 ) % 

SFJETT EIE-flE ETET EVET fRI trfa'tjfTd f%ET TIPT £ EETEE Tiff ESEf rff tTR/qyT- 2 9 9 1 fft% 

I 1972 f%ET EET | vfffip RlTtfar RTEW ^EET (TEFT^ pEjjf) tflEfET EHT fPE% 

f^rief tqT 






Hutnarrtt ee ete tfti qrarr Tf jt% srnwfa % ff wmun urdfa ht ms 

snfrr E^/srfairr 


(1) 


(2) 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


Ht tnT/EH -2991 
24 Epf, 197 2 


t^UET TEET E e fkfo EEZEIE, Hf-TT- 
Ev-ti , fEET (EoITP^J) (EEE?- 
m -ftEfr eFee) ffETNE 
^TTE, 23 Etsfr ETE, 

fdVvff— 1 , 


1100 E>R ET dEEhrft 
<=lWr1T ETE qV Et EV frfsTE 
(ETft EEEt) fEEEt % ] 

%E"T | 


IS 1554('ETEl) 1 954 tfV 
TtfEE ('Elfl TJjtfV) fd^FTt' T 
Ei'Evf, 1100 EtEE ET EE EE^f- 
EELt EtEEET % ft# (jE^ffatT) 


[Eo tfV 1TE # /55:2991 (% E)] 

Mare Delhi the Slh September 1072 

S.O. — 33 to l n pursuance of sub-regulation (4) (if regulation 14 of the Indian Standards Institution CCertification At arks) Rcgulaiicr B 
1955 as amended from time to time, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that the licence No. CM /L-1203 pari iculprr ol w hich 
are given b-dow, has been cancelled with effect from 16-8-1972 as the party has manufacture of the product due to closure of the factory. 


Licence No. and 
Date 


Name & Address of the Article/Process covered by Relevent Indian Standard 

licensee the licence cancelled 


CM/-1203 KairaDistrict Co-operative Milk Condensed Milk IS : 1166-1957 

20-1-1966 Producers’ Union Ltd, Anand 

(WR) KairaDistt. Gujarat State. 


[No GMD/5J : 1203 J 


4628 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II — 


^ 8 fimFTT, 1972 

5ffo33l0: — TO IFFI TT #?ftftTT TFTT flFTT (WFTTf%^) fafahh 1955 % fapFih 14% tpT- 

fafWT (4) % IFJFR '4rd%T RETT TTFs-TT amjsrfa^lfad f%TT TTdT | f% CT#T #W #T ttr/TT- 120 3 f47T% srftT %TT fad 
^1, 165TTCI 1972# F^TT f%TT Wt wff% TTTFt V^STTT# % TTCT ctT^wft # T rM 154 TT f?TT £ : 

5TT?#fT #0 f^R fof% TT BTR sflF TTT T? f%rr ipT tTT^#ff % 41 ■'if IT 4TTT 

5Rr%T TFT-Tfw 


tnr/tT?r-1203 %7T TirTTT^f, f#cT ?%?- B^fatl IS: 1166-1957 

2 0- 1- 1 9 6 6 tjfarpT fafo , UFK (tH?^ 

%T#) %FT frraT, (W'M) 


[#trnrft/55 : 1203] 

Nero Pel hi, the 14 th September 1972 

S.O. 3311 In pursuance of sub-regulation (3! of regulation 7 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification 
marks) Regulations, I9J5, the Indian Standards Institution hereby noiifies that the marking fee(s) per unit for various pro- 
ducts, details of which are given in the Schedule herto annexed, have been determined and the fee(s) shall come into force 
with effect front the dates shown against each: 

The Schedule 


SI. 

No. 

Product/Clasa of Product No. and Title of Relevant Indian 

Standard 

Unit 

Marking Fee 
per unit 

Date of Effect 

1 

^ 3 

4 

3 

6 

1 

Blackhcart malleable iron castings . IS : 2108-1962 Specification for 

blackheart malleable iron 
castings. 

One tonne 

Rs. 2 00 

16 July 1972 

2 

Sodium bicarbonate . , .IS: 2124-1962 Specification for 

sodium bicarbonate 

One tonne 

20 paise 

1 August 1972 


No. CMD/i3:io 


fat?#!' 14 1972 


tnio #to 3311: — WTEdth RTTfi RW (TTrWTfTrr) WWT 195 5 %fafTR 7 % ^TplPih'fT ( 3 ) % 

\TTFtT%T RETT RT4T %V #K # gfafjffatT fw TTtlT £ f% faf%tT ^?TTTT %t trf# t^TTf ^FITT 'fit# f%TI% *#1# 5EJ3#t # far 
hTT I, fjwffTtl %t I # %t# dd% HTT fcgi# *lf # FET i\ TTTht ; 




T*! del lE'/'d CHI'? TT 4# 

#«t(T 

BTTtfth HTTP %f T? 
#Vf 


Slfff 

vihfa %)" %hT 

si id %V Rif# 

1 2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

1 s#Tfr£ gs# ivft 

IS: 2108-1962 s#T^17 4S# *tt fo 2.00 

16 spni 197 2 


Tt Scft TEJ#! f%- 





ftlfe 




2 TITEM'ElF 

I: 2124-1962 iftfWT 

— r*> A _. .. 

ITT RT3TT SET 

20 ## 

1 giTFfr, 1972 


gT^RETT fa Pi! ltd 





[#o lf[tTR^/l3:lO] 





Six. 3 •' ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 4629 


S. O. 33i». — In pursuance of sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 8 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certifications 
marks) Regulations, 1955, as amended from time to time, the Indian Standards Institution, hereby, notifies that one hundred and 
seventy six licences, particulars of which are given in the following Schedule, have been renewed during the month of 
Decmber 1971. 

The Schedule 


SI. 

No. 

Licence No. 
and date 

Period of Validity 

From To 

Name & Address of the Licensee 

Articlc/Process covered by the Liccnbes 
and the Relevant Is: Designation 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

1 

CM/L-21 

3-12-1956 

1-12-1971 

30-11-1972 

Barlco Metal Industries Pvt. Ltd., 
Tulsiram Gupta Mills Estate, 
Darukhana, Bomb ay- 10. 

Wrought aluminium and aluminium alloy 
sheets, strips and circles — IS:2I-I959. 

2 

CM/L-36 

4-II-1957 

16-11-1971 

15-11-1972 

The National Insulated Cable Co. of 
India Limited, Nicco House, Ilurc 
Street, Calcitrta-i. 

Hard drawn stranded aluminium and steel 
cored aluminium conductors for overhead 
power transmission purpose, — IS: 

398-1961. 

3 

CM/L-63 

7-2-1958 

1-12-1971 

31-5-1972 

The Indian Turpentine & Resin Co. 
Limited, r.O. Clutterbuckganj, 
Bareilly (U.P.) 

Gum Spirit of turpentine — 18:533-1954. 

4 

CM/L-106 

4-11-1958 

16-12-1971 

15-12-1972 

The Mysore Chemical Mfrs. Ltd., Copper sulphate, tecluiical — IS:26 i-I 966 
Chikbanavar P.O., Di9tt. Bangalore. 

5 

CM/L-129 

22-6-1959 

1-11-1971 

31-10-1972 

The Alkali and Chemical Corpn. of 
India Ltd., 34, Chowringhee, Cal- 
cutta-16. 

BHC cmulsifiable concentrates — IS :632 _ 

1966. 

6 

CM/L-143 

24-9-1959 

1-1-1972 

31-12-1972 

Travancore Plywood Industries Ltd; 
Kukkadavu, P.O. Punalur (Kerala). 

Tea-chcst plywood panels — IS:tO-i964. 

7 

CM/L-150 

IJ-IO-1959 

1-11-1971 

31-10-1972 

Packing Material Corpn., Khod Gaily, Water proof packing paper— IS: 1398-1968 
Otf Gokhlc Road (South), Bombay-28 

8 

CM/L-153 

15-10-1959 

1-11-1971 

31-10-1972 

The Alakali & Chemical Corpn, of 
India Ltd., 34, Chowringhee, 
Caleutta-16, 

BHC, technical and refined — IS :56o-i955 

9 

CM/L-105 

20-7-1960 

1-12-1971 

30-11-1974 

Kaira District Cooperative Milk Milk Powder (whole & skin) — IS :ii65-I967. 
Producers’ Union Ltd., An and (W.R.) 

Kaira District (Gujarat). 

10 

CM/L-224 

16-9-1960 

I-1-1972 

31-12-1972 

Swaraj Plywood- Works, P.B. N. 24, Tea-chcst plywood panels — 18:10-1964 
Kottayam G-litre square tins G.T. — 18:916-1966 

It 

CM/L-243 

23-11-1960 

1-12-1971 

30-11-1972 

Hindustan Tin Works Pvt, Ltd., 

Road, Ghuziabad (U.P.) 


12 

CM/L-357 

20-11-1961 

1-12-1971 

30-11-1972 

Electrical and Mechanical Corpn. 
(India), E-4, Indus) rial Area, Jul- 
lundiu City. 

Metal clad switches, 15 Amp 250 volts, 
with MEM type fuse base and carrier — 
IS 4064-1967. 

13 

CVI/L-3 61 
27-11-1961 

16-12-1971 

15- 12-1972 

Mi it Van its pat i Mfg C t., Mo.linagar, 
Disit. Meerut (U.P.) 

1 8-litre square tins— IS :<)i6-i^66. 

14 

CM/L-369 

22-12-1961 

1-1-1972 

31-12-1972 

D.C.M, Container Works, Najafgarh 
Road, New Delhi-15. 

18-lirrc square tin— IS .-916-1966. 

1 5 

CM/L-379 

25-1-1962 

1-1-1972 

31-12-1972 

The Na ional Screw and Wire Products 
Limited, Beiur, P.O. Belur Math, 
Uistt, Howrah. 

Hard-drawn stranded aluminiu and steel 
cored aluminium conductors for overhead 
power transmission purposes — IS 1398-1961, 

16 

i 

CM/L-38r 

9-2-1962 

16-12-1971 

15-12-1972 

Pesticides India, Udaisagar Road, 
Udaipur (Rajasthan). 

BIIC dusting powders — IS: 561-1962. 

17 

CM/L-389 

5-3-1962 

16-11-1971 

15-11-1972 

The National Insulated Cable Co. of PVC cables only (250 volts and 650 volts 
IndiaLtd. Nicco House, Hare Street, grade) — IS 1694 (Parts I & II)- 106.1 

Calcutta- r. y 

18 

CM/L-424 

30-6-1962 

1-1-1972 

31-12-1972 

Anarn Electriatl Mfg, Company, 
Kadiam, East Godavari Distt.(A.P.) 

Aluminium conductors, steel reinforced 
and all aluminium conductors — 

IS: 398-1961. 

19 

GM/L-432 

18-7-1962 

1-1-1972 

31-12-1972 

Victor Cables Corpn., 7/3, G. T.Road, (r) PVC insulated cables of 250/440 
Sahibabad, P. O. Pusonda (Ghaziabad) and 650/1100 volts grade with 

copper or aluminium conductors. 

(2) PVC insulated flexible cords 250/ 
440 volts grade with copper condu- 
ctors only — 

IS : 694 (Parts I & II)-i964 

20 

j 

GM/L-467 

30-10-1962 

16-11-1971 

15-11-1972 

Shalimar Tar Products (r935) ;Ltd., 
26, Lake Road, Bhandup, 
Bombay-78, 

Bitumen felts for water-proofiing & damp- 
proofling. Type 3, Grade 1 & 2— 

IS: 1322-1965. 

21 

CM/L-547 

14-6-1963 

16-12-1971 

15-12-1972 

Sheet & Metal Industries, 134, Jcssore 
Road, Dum-Dum, Calcutta-55. 

Tea-chcst Metal fittings— 

IS: 10-1964 



4<$30 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 , 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 [Part H— 

(i) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) ( 4 ) ( 5 ) (6) 


22 CM/L-554 1-11-1971 

26-6-1963 

23 CM/L-;62 1-11-1971 

11-7-1963 

24 CM/L-588 16-10-1971 

4-10-1963 


25 CM/L-J9I 16-11-1971 
21-10-1963 


26 CM/L-592 16-11-197 1 

21-10-1963 


27 CM/L-596 16-12-1971 

30-10-1963 


28 CM/L-598 1-12-1971 

7-11-1963 


29 CM/L-621 16-12-1971 

22-1-1964 


30 CM/L-677 16-12-1971 

25-5-1964 

31 CM/L-696 16-11-197 1 

17-6-1964 


32 CM/L-788 16-12-1971 

25-9-1964 


33 CM/L-799 1-11-1971 

12-10-1964 


34 CM/L-831 16-11-1971 

2-11-1964 


35 CM/L-832 16-11-1971 

2-II-1964 


31-10-1972 Annapurna Pulverising Mills, Indus- BHC dusting powders — 
trial Estate, Eluru, W.G. Distt(A.P.) IS: J61-1962. 

30- 4-1972 Do. BHC WDPC — 

C IS: 562-1962. 

15-10-1972 The Alimedubad Mfg. & Calico (1) Single core (unsheathed) PVC insu- 
Printing Co. Ltd., Calico Mills lated cables 250/440 volts and 650 
Chem. & Plastic, Dvn,, AnikChcm- 1100 volts grade with copper or/ 
bur, Bombay-71. aluminium conductors; and 

(2) Single core (PVC sheathed) PVC 

insulated cables 250/440 volts grade 
with copper or aluminium conductors 
and 650/1 100 volts grade with copper 
conductor only^— 

IS: 694 (Parts I & ID-1964 

15-11-1972 Shaltmar Tar Products (1935) Ltd., Bitumen (Plastic) for water-proof! ing 
26, Lake Road, Bhandup, Bombay-71, purposes— 

IS: 1580-1969 

15-11-1972 Do. Pre-formcd fillers for expansion joint 

concrete non-extruding & resilient 

type— 

IS: 1838-1961 

r5-r2-i972 Pesticides India, Udaisagar Road, DDT water dispersible powder conccn- 
Udaipur (Rajasthan). trates— 

IS :56j-i96i, 

31- 5-1972 Skytone Electricals (India), 43, Indus- (1) PVC cables sheathed and unsheathed 

trial Area, Faridabad (Haryana) . single core with aluminium condu - 

tors 250/440 or6jo/noo volts grade. 

(2) PVC insulated and PVC sheathed 

flat or circular twin, three or four 
core cables with copper or aluminium 
conductors, 250/440 or 6jo/noo 

volts grade and 

(3) Twin twisted, unsheathed flexible 
cords, 250/440 volts grade with 
copper conductors only — 

IS: 694 (Parts I & ID-1964. 

15-12-1972 Pesticides India, Udaisagar Road, BHC water dispersible powder con- 
Udaipur (Rajasthan). ccntratcs — 

IS: 562-1962. 

15-12-1972 Do. DDT dusting powders — 

IS: 564-1961. 

15-11-1972 The National Insulated Cable Co. of PVC insulated (heavy duty) electric 

India Ltd., Shamnagar, 24 Parganas cables for working voltages up to and 
(West Bengal). including 1100 volts with copper or 

aluminium conductors — 

IS: 1554 (Fart D-1964. 

15.12-1972 Jamna Auto Industries, E-46, Indus- Leaf spring and spring leaf for automobile 
trial Area, Yamunanagar (Distt. suspension — 

Ambala). IS: 113J-1966. 

31-10-1972 Annapurna Pulverising Mills, Indus- Endrin emulrifiable concentrates — 
trial Estate, Eluru W.G. Distt. IS: 1310-1958 
(A. P.). 

15-11-1972 AgarwaJ Hardware Works Pvt. Ltd., Structural steel (standard quality) tested 

167, Chittaranjan Avenue, Calcutta. steel rounds upto 1" (25 mm) dia 

and flats up toi"xi/4" to 2'j<i/2' 
(25 mmx6 mm) to (50 mm x 12- 7mm) 
and sections of equivalent area • — 
IS: 226-1969 

15-U-1972 Do. Structural steel (ordinary quality), tested 

steel rounds up to 1” (25mm) dia and 
flats upto 1' x 1/4" to 2'xi/2' (25mm X 
6 mm x 50 mm x 12 -7 mm) and sectiona 
of equivalent area — 

IS: 1977-1969 


Sec. 3(ii)1 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVTNA 29, IS 9 4 463J, 


(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) 


36 

37 

38 

39 

40 

41 

42 

43 

44 

45 

46 

47 

48 


CM/L-839 1-12-1971 30-11-1972 Industrial Research Corpn, 128, Dye-baaed foundation pan ink (blue, red 

23-11-1964 Lattice Bridge Road, Madra s -2 and green) — 

IS: 1221-1957 

CM/L-844 1-12-T971 30-11-1972 Baranagorc Jute Factory Co., Ltd., (1) Indian hessian — 

28-11-1964 284, Maharaja Naiid Kumar Road, 18:2818-1964 

Alambazar, Calcuttu-35. (2) Hessian bags — 

18:3790-1966 

CM/L-R45 1-12-1971 30-11-1972 Do. (1) A twill jute bags — IS: 1943-1964 

28-11-1964 (2) B — Twill jute bags — 18:2566-1965 

(3) Heavy cee jute bags — 18:2874-1964 

(4) Jute com sacks — 15:2875 — 1964 

(5) B — twill cloth — IS .-3667-1906 

(6) Liverpool twill (L-twill) cloth — 

18:3669-1966 

(7) Jute corn sack cloth 

IS -.3750-1966 

(8) Heavy cee cloth — 18:3751-1966 & 

(9) Liverpool (L-twill) bags — 

18:3794-1966 


CM/L-850 

28-11-1964 

I-I2-I97X 

30-11-1972 

ITowrah Mills Co. Ltd., 493/C/A,G.T. 

Road, South Hownah 

1 

(1) Indian hessian — IS: 2818-1964 

(2) Hessian bags — [8:3790-1966 

CM/L-851 

28-11-1964 

I-I2-T97I 

30-11-1972 

Do. 

(1) A- twill jute bags*— IS1943-1964 

(2) Heavy cee jute bags — 18:2874-1964 

(3) Jute corn Backs — 18:2875-1964 

(4) B-twill jute bags — 18:2566-1965 

(5) Liverpool twill (L-twili) bags— 
IS :3794-l966 

(6) B-twill cloth — IS: 3667-1966 

(7) Liverpool twill (L-twill) doth— 

IS: 3668-1966 

(8) Jute com sack cloLh-r-IS 3750-1966 & 

(9) Heavy cee cloth — 18:3751-1966 

CM/L-852 

28-11-1964 

1-12-1971 

30-11-1972 

Budge Bulge Amalgamated Mills, 
(Unit — Budge Budge) 57,Maulana- 
Azad Road, Budge Budge 

Do. 

(1) Indian hessian — ■18:2818-1964 

(2) Hessian bags — 18:3790-1966 

CMIL-853 

28-11-1964 

1-12-1971 

30-11-1972 

(1) A-twill jute bags — 18:1943-1964 

(2) B-twill jute bags — 18:2566-1965 

(3) Heavy cee jut c bags — 18:2874-1964 

(4) B-twill cloth — IS: 3667-1966 

(5) Heavy cee cloth — 18:3751-1966 

CM/L-854 

28-11-1964 

1-12-1971 

30-11-1972 

Budge Budge Amalgamated Mills, 

(Unit-Delta), Manikpore, Sankrail, 
Howrah. 

(1) Indian hessian — IS: 2818-1964 & 

(2) Hessian bags — 18:3790-1966 

CM/L-855 

28-11-1964 

1-12-1971 

30-11-1972 

Do.' 

(1) A-twill jute bags — 18:1943-1964 

(2) B-twill jute bags — 18:2874 — 1964 

(3) Heavy cee jute bags— IS : 2874-1964 

(4) B-twill cloth — 18:3667-1966 & 

(5) Heavy cee cloth — 18:3751-1966 

CM/L-856 

28-11-1964 

1-12-1971 

30-11-1972 

Budge Budge Amalgamated Mills , 
(Unit- Chevoit) Badekalinagar, 

Budge Budge Calcutta 

(1) Indian hessian — IS: 2818-1964 & 

(2) Hessian bags — 18:3790-1966 

CM/L-857 

28-11-1964 

1-12-1971 

30-11-1972 

Do. 

(1) A-twill jute bags — 18:1943-1964 

(2) B-twill jute bags — IS :2566-i965 

(3) Heavy cee jute bags— IS .-2874-1964 

(4) B-twill doth & — IS 3667-1966 

(5) Heavy cee cloth — 18:37-51-1966 

CM'L-858 

28-11-1964 

1-12-1971 

30-11-1972 

Auck and Jute Co. Ltd., 

Jagatdal, 24 Parganas 

(1) Indian hesscan — IS: 2818-1964 & 

(2) Hessan bags — IS : 3790-1966 

CM/L-859 

28-11-1964 

1-12-1971 

31-5-1972 

Do. 

(1) A-twill jute bags — IS : 1943-1964 

(2) B-twill jute bags — IS : 2566-1965 

(3) Heavy cee jute ba^s — IS : 2874-1964 

(4) Jute corn sacks— IS : 2875-1964 

(5) B-twill doth — IS : 3667-1966 

(6) Liverpool (L-twill) doth — IS : 3668- 

1966 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 51 , 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[Part II — 


(i) (2) 


49 CM/L-860 
28-1 1-1964 


50 CM/L-861 
28-11-1964 

51 CM/L-862 

28-11-1964 


52 CM/L-865 
28-11-1964 

53 CM/L-866 
28-11-1964 


54 CM/L-868 

28-11-1964 

55 CM/L-871 
28-11-1964 

36 GVI/L-872 
28-JI-1964 


57 GvI/L-874 

28-11-1964 

58 CM/L-881 
28-11-1964. 

59 C.vi L-882 
28-11-1964 


60 CM/L-884 

28-11-1994 

61 CM/L-886 
28-11-1964 

62 CM./L-894 
28*11-1964 


1-12-1971 30-11-1972 Dalhousie Jute Co. Ltd., 

Champdany, Distt, Hooghly 


1-12-1971 30-11-1972 Kirmison Jute Mills Co. Ltd., 

Titughur, 24 Parganas 

1-12-1971 30-11-1972 Do. 


1-12-1971 30-11-1972 Northbrook Jute Co. Ltd., 

Champdany, Distt. Hooghly 

1-12-1971 30-11-1972 Do. 


X-12-1971 30-11-1972 Union Jute Co, Ltd., 

12 Convent Lane, Calcntta-15 

1:12-1971 30-11-1972 The Nuddea Mills Co. Ltd., 

Naihati, 24 Parganas 

1-12-1971 30-11-1972 The Nuddea Mills Co. Ltd., 

Naihati, 24 Parganas 


I-12-1971 30-U-1972 National Co. Ltd., 

Rajgung, Andul, Howrah 

1-12-1971 30-11-1972 Victoria Ju<e Co, Lrd., P.O. 

Tclinipara, Distt, Hooghly 

I-12-1971 30-11-972 Do. 


I-12-1971 30-11-1972 Hastings Mill Ltd,, 

Rishra, Hooghly 


1-12-1971 30-11-1972 Fort William Co. Ltd., 

47/48, Raj Naraitr Roychowdhui 
Ghat Road, Shibpore, Howrah 

1-12-1971 30-II-1972 Hukamchand Jute Mills Ltd., 

47, Ghoshpara Road, Halisahar 


(7) Jute corn sack doth — IS : 3750-1968 

(8) Heavy cee cloth— IS ; 3751-1966 and 

(9) Liverpool twill (L-twill) bags — . 

IS : 3794-1966 


(1) Indian hessian — IS : 2818-1964 
(2) Hessian bags— IS : 3790-19 66 

(1) Indian hessian — IS : 2818-1964 

(2) Hessian bags — IS : 3790-1966 

(1) A-twill jute bags — IS : 1943-1964 
(2) B-lwill jute bags— IS : 2566-1965 

(3) Heavy coe jute bags — IS : 2S74-1964 

(1) Indian hessian — IS : 2818-1964 & 

(2) Hessian bags — IS : 3790-1966 

(1) A-twill jute bags — IS ; 1943-1964 

(2) Heavy cee jute bags — IS : 2874-1964 

(3) Jute corn sackB' — IS : 2875-1964 

(4) B-will jute bags — IS : 2566-1965 

(5) Liverpool twill (L-will) bags : 

IS : 3794-1966 

(6) B-twill cloth — IS : 3667-1966 
17) Liverpool twill (L-twiU) cloth — 

IS : 3668-1966 

(8) Jute corn sack doth — IS : 3750-1966 & 

(9) Heavy ecc cloth — IS : 3751-1966 

(1) Indian hessian — IS : 2818-1964 

(2) Hessian bags — IS : 3790-1966 

(1) Indian hessain— IS : 2S18-1964 & 

(2) Ilcssain bugs— IS : 3790-1966 

(1) A-twill jute bags — IS : 1943-1964 

(2) B-twill jute bags — IS : 2566-1964 

(31 Heavy cee jute bags— IS : 2874-1964 

(4) Jute corn sacks — IS : 2875-19G4 

(5) B-twill cloth — IS : 3667-1966 

(6) Liveipool I will (L-twill) doth — 

IS : 3668-1966 

(7) Jute corn suck doth — IS: 3750-T966 

(8) Heavy cee cloth — IS : 375Lr96b & 

(9) Liverpool twill (/L-twill) bags 

IS : 3794 — 1966 

(1) B-twill jute bags — IS : 2566-1965 & 

(2) B-twill cloth — IS : 3667-1966 

fi; Indian hesrian — IS : 2818-1964 & 

(2) Hsssian bags —IS : 3790-1966 


(1) A-twill jute bugs — IS : 1943-1964 

(2) B-twill jute bags— IS : 2566-1965 

(3) Heavy cec jute bags— IS : 2874-1964 

(4) Jute corn sacks — IS : 2875-1964 

(5) B-twill colth— IS : 3667-1966 

(6) Liverpool twill (L-twill) cloth — 

IS : 3668-1966 


(7) Jute corn sack doth — IS : 3750-1966 
18) Heavy cec doth— IS : 3757—1966 
(9) Liverpool twill (L-wiU) bags — 

IS : 3794-1966 

A-twill jute bags — IS : 1943-1964 


A-twill jute bags — IS : 1943-1964 


(1) A-twill jute bags— IS : 1943-1964 

(2) B-twill jute bugs — IS : 2566-1965 

C3) Heavy cee jute bags— IS : 2874-1964 

(4) Jute corn sacks— IS : 2875-1964 

(5) Liverpool twill (L-twill) bags — 

IS : 3794-1966 


Sec. 3 (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 , 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


(i) (2) 


63. CM/L-898 
28-II-1964 


64, CM/L-905 

28-II-I964 


65, CM/L-906 
28-II-I964 


66, CM/L-910 
48-11-1964 


67. CM/L-919 
28-11-1964 

68. CM/L-920 

38-11-1964 

69. CM/L -947 

28-11-1964 


70, CM/L-928 

28-11-1964 


71. CM/L-941 

28-11-1964 

72. CM./L-942 

28-11-1964 


73. CM/L -943 

28-11-1964 

74. CM/L-945 

28-11-1964 

75. CM/L-946 

28-11-1964 


1-12-1971 


1-12-1971 


1-12-1971 


1-12-1971 


30-11-1972 Anglo-Tndia Jute Mills Co. Ltd. 

("Middle Mills), Jagatdal, 24 
Parganas 


(6) B-twill cloth — IS : 3667-1966 

(7) Liverpool twill (L-lwill) clotli — 

IS : 3668-1966 

(8) Jute com sack cloth— IS: 3750-1966 & 

(9) Ileavy ccc clotli — IS : 3751-1966 

B-twill jute bags— IS : 2566-1965 


30-11-1972 Nagalbhai Juic Mills (Division : (1) Indian hessian— IS : 281R-1964 & 

Mal'atlal Gagalhhai & Co. Pvt. Ltd.) 

Sijbcria, P.O. Ulberia, Howrah (2) Hessian bags — IS : 3790-1966 


30-11-1972 Caledonian Jute Mills Co. Ltd., 
18 Mehta Raod, Badekalinagar, 
24 Parganas 

30-11-1972 The India Jute Co. Ltd., 

K.S. Scrnrnpoic, Hoogjily 


B-twill jute Bags— IS ; 2566-1965 


1-12-1971 


I- 13 -I 97 I 


I-12-1971 


1-12-1971 


30-11-1973 Champdany Jute Co. Ltd., 
(Wellington jute) 

G.T. Road, Riahra, Hooghly 

30-11-1972 Champdany Jute Co. Ltd., (Wellingti 
Jute) G.T. Road, Ri&hra, Hooghly 


1-12-1971 


1-12-1971 


30-H-I97 2 The India Jute Co. Ltd., (1) A-twill jute hags— IS : 1943-1964 

K-S. Scrarpporc, Hooghly (2) B-twill jute bags— IS : 2566-1965 

(3) Ileavy cee j u te bags— IS : 2874-1964 

(4) lute corn sacks— IS : 2R75— 1964 
15) B-tvvill c.loth— IS : 3667-1966 

(6) Jute corn sack cloth— IS : 3750-1966 & 

(7) Heavy cee cloth— IS : 3 7 5i_ I9 66 

30-11-1972 Naihati Jute Mills Co., Ltd. (1) Indian hessian— IS : 2818-1964 

P.O. Haainagar, 24 Pargana* (*) Hessian bags— IS : 3790-1966 

30-11-1972 Do. B-twill jute bags— is : 2566-1965 

30-11-1973 Champdany Jute Co. Ltd., (1) Indian hessaln— IS : 2818-1964 & 

(Wellington Jute) - 

G.T. Road, Riahra, Hooghly (2) Hessian bags— IS : 3790-1966 

30-11-1972 Champdany Jute Co. Ltd., (Wellington 1. A-twill jute bags — IS : 1043-1062 
Jute) G.T. Road, Riahra, Hooghly 2. B-twill jute bags— is 2566-1965 

3. Heavy cee jute bags— IS: 2874-1964 

4- Jute com sacks— IS: 2875-1964 

5- Liverpool (L-twill) bags— IS: 3794-1966 

6. B-twill cloth — IS : 3667-1966" 

7. Levcrpool twill (L-twill) cloth IS- 3668 

1966 ' J 

8. Jiite corn sack cloth — IS : 3750-1966 

9. Ileavy cee cloth— IS: 3751-1966 

30-11-1972 New Central Jnte Mills Co. Ltd. (Albion (1) Indian hessian— IS: 2818-1964 & 

Mills), Budge Budge, 24 Parganas. (2) Hessian bags — IS: 3790-1966 

30-11-1972 Do. (1) A-twill jute bags — TS: 1943-1944 

(2) B-twill jute bags— IS: 2566-1965 
C3> Heavy cee jute bags— IS : 2874-1964 

(4) Jute com sacks — IS : 2875-1964 

(5) B-twill clpth— IS: 3667-196 6 

(6) Liverpool twill (L-lwill) cloth IS : 3668- 

1966 J 

(7) Jute corn sack cloth— IS : 3751-1966 

(8) Heavy cee cloth- Js ; 375 i-T 9 66& 

(9) Liverpool (L-twill) bags— IS : 3794-1966 

30-11-197 2 New Central Jute Mills Co., Ltd. (1) Indian hessian— IS: 2818-1964 & 

(Lothian Mills), Budge Budge, 24 (2) Hessian bags- IS : 3700-1066 

Ptn-mnao ' s “ 


1-12-1971 


1-12-1971 30-11-1972 


30-11-1972 New Central Jute Mills Co., Ltd. (1) 
(Lothian Mills), Budge Budge, 24 
Parganas. 

30-11-1972 Ganges Alfg. Co. Ltd, Bansbcria, IIoo 


3-11-1972 Ganges Mfg. Co. Ltd, Bansbcria, IIoo- (1) Indian hessian— JS: 2818-106.1 e. 

eWy (2) Hessian gas — 18:3790-1966 4 


1-12-1971 30-11-1972 


1'iessiun gas — la : 3790-1966 

(1) A-twill jute bags— IS : 1943-1964 

(2) B-twill jute bags— IS : 2566-1965 

(3) Heavy cee jute bags— IS : 2874-1964 

(4) Jute corn sacks— IS : 2875-1964 

(5) B-rwill cloth— IS: 3647-I966 9 4 

( 6) Ltverpco! twill (L-lwM) cloth— 

18:3668-1966 

(7) Jute corn sack cloth— IS: 3750-1066 
18 Heavy cce cloh-IS : 3751-^966 f 

i966 CrP ° 01 UV1 (L-twill) bags— IS: 3794, 



4*534 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 , 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[Part II— 


(1) 

(2) 

( 3 ) 

76. 

CMT-947 

28-H-1964 

1-12-1971 

77 - 

CM/L-948 

28-11-1964 

1-12-1971 

78. 

CM/L -958 

28-II-1964 

1-12-1971 

79 - 

CM/L-963 

28-11-1964 

1-12-1971 

80. 

CM/L-964 

28 - 11-1964 

1-12-1971 

Pi. 

CM/L-975 

30-11-1964 

16-12-1971 

1 

82. 

CM/L-977 

13-11-1964 

J1-T2-1971 

283 . 

CMT- 9 8r 

21-12-1964 

1-1-1972 

84. 

CM/L-1052 

15-4-1965 

1-11-1971 

3 j. 

CM/L-1078 

31-1-1965 

16-10-1971 

86. 

CM/L*to 94 

8-6-1965 

16-12-X971 

887. 

CM/L-1095 
8-6-1965 | 

$16-12-1971 ; 

] 38 . 

CM/L-1120 ] 
4-5-1965 

1 ^16-11-1971 

89. 

CM , L-XI2I 
4-5-1965 \ 

i 6 -ii-X 97 X 

90. 

C ‘i/L-it D 
29-9-1965 1 

IS-I 2 -U 7 X 


U) 


( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


30-11-1972 The Agarpara Co. Limited, P. O. 

Kamarhatty, 24 Purganas. 


30-11-1972 / 


Do. 


CO Indian hessian — IS : 2R18-1964 & 
(2) Hessian bags — IS : 3790-1966 

Ci) B-twill jute bags— IS: 2566 — 196; 
(2) B-twill cloth— IS : 3667-1966 

30-11-1972 Prabartak Jute Mills Ltd., Kamarhatty, (O A-twill jute bags— IS: 1043-1964 
B. T. Road, 24 Parganas. (2) B-twill jute bags- — IS : 2566-1965 

30-11-1972 Naffar Chandra Jute Mills Ltd., Kanki- (ij Indian hessian — TS: 2818-1964 fit 
narrah, 24 Parganas. (2) Hessian Bags— IS : 3790-1966 


30-11-1972 


Do. 


(1) B-twill jute bags— IS: 2566-1965 fit 

(2) Heavy cee jute bags— IS : 2874-1964 


15-12-1972 Hindustan Chandra Pvt. Ltd,,G.T, Road, Wrought aluminium utensils, Grade SIC — 
P. O. Pasaunda, Ghaziabad (U.P.). IS : 21-1959 

30- 11-1972 Industrial Research Corpn., 128 Latticlc Ferro-gallo tannate fountain pen ink IS: 220- 

Bridgc Road, Madras-2. 1959 

31- 12-1972 Industrial Chemicals Ltd., Sankarnagar, Calcium carbide, quality A— IS: 1040-1960 

Talaiynthu (R-S.) Distt. Tirunclvdi. 


3I-iO-<i972 J. K. Steel & Industries Ltd., Rishra, 
Distt Hooghly. 


Hot reolled steel strips (bailing) — IS: 1029- 
1970 


15-10-1972 Sbree Hanuman Industries, 65/A, G. T. Cast iron flushing cisterns (bell type), high 
Road, Liluah, Howrah. level, 10 litre", 12.5 litres and ij litres capa- 

cities — IS : 774-1964 

lj-ia-1972 Trlchy Steel Rolling Mill Ltd,, Sanathn- Structural steel (standard quality)— IS I a*6— 
nipuram^ Golden Rock, Tlruchlrapalll 1969 


I15-12-1973 


Do. 


Structural iteol (ordinary quality)— IS : 1977* 
1969 


31-8-1972 Andhra Steel Corpn., Ltd., Malkapuram Structural steel (standard quality)— IS: 226— 
Visakhapatnam 1969 


31-8-1972 


Do. 


Structural steel (ordinary quality) — IS: 1977- 

1969 


Type 


Voltage 

Grade 


Conductor 


d 5-12-1972 Fort Cluster Industries Ltd., Bauria, (a) PVC insulated cables 
S. E. Railway.] 

(i) Single core (un- ^ 
sheathed)? 

(ii) Single core PVC 
sheathed) 

('ii' 1 Circular tv in, 
three and four 
core (PVC shea- 
red)' 

(iv) Flat" twin with or 

without earth 
continuby con- 
ductor (PVC 
sheathed) I 

(v) Flat three core | 
(PVC sheathed) J 


250/440 Alumini* 
[ um and only 
650/ j 100 

volt". 


(b PVC insulated 
flernble coOds 

(vi) Twin twisted 'j 
(unsheathed) 

(vii) Parallel twin , 

(unsheathed) ^ 250/440 Copper 

(viii) Circular twin, 1 only, 

three core and . 

four core (PVC J 

sheathed)’ * 

IS': 694 — (Parti & ' I 

II)— 1964 J 


Sfc, i(ii)] 


ttlE GAZETTE, OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVlNA 29, 1894 


4635 


(i; (2) 

(3) 

(4 

91. 

CM/L-11S2 

15-12-1965 

<16-12-1971 

l i5-i2-i972 

92. 

CM/L-1186 

23-12-1965 

1-1*1972 

3I-I2-I972 

93- 

CM/L-1237 
1-4-1966 f 

16-12-197! 

15-12-1972 

94- 

CM'L-1258 

5-5-1966 

I-II-I97I 

*3°-4-i972 

95- 

CM/L-1273 

31-5-1966 

16-12-1971 

,,15-6-1972 

96. 

CM/L-1275 

31-5-1966 

16-12-1971 

*15-6-1972] 

97- 

CM/L-1347 

30-9-1966 

I-I-I972 

.31-12-1972 

98. 

CM/L-1359 

30-11-1966 

1-12-1971 

31-5-1972 

99. 

CM/L-1374 

28-12-1966 

1-U-1971 

31-10-1972 

100 , 

CM/L-1463 

16-6-1967J 

16-11-1971 

I5-J-I972 


101. CM/L-1470 16-12-1971 ij-12-1972 

7 - 7 - 1967 , 


102. CM/L-I473 16-12-1971 15-12-1972 

13-7-1967 


(5) 


( 6 ) 


Fort Gloster Industries Ltd., Bauria ; 
S. E. Railway. 


Indo Engineering (Kota) Pvt. Ltd., 
Industrial Estate, (Kota) .(Rajasthan) 


Fort Gloster Industries Ltd., Bauria, 
S. E. Railway. 


PVC insulated (heavy duty) electric tobies 
for working voltages upto and including 
1100 volts — IS: 1554 (Part-I) — 1964 

Hard-drawn stranded aluminium and steel- 
cored aluminium conductors for overhead 
power transmission purposes— IS : 398-1961 

Paper insulated lead sheathed cables (with 
aluminium conductors) for electricity 
supply to and including 33 KV — IS 1692 — 
1965 


Geep Flashlight Industries Ltd.,28 South Flashlights — IS : 2038-1962 
Road, Allahabad (U.P.) 

Kisan Chemicals, 127, Industrial Area, Endrin emulsifiable concentrates— IS: 1310- 
Chandigarh. 1958 

Mysore Insecticides Company, (Andhra) Endrin emulsifiable concentrates — IS: 13 10- 
Tedapalli Guntur, District. 1958 


Sjvan India Pvt. Ltd., 12/1, Mathura 
" Road, P. O. Arnar Nagar, Faridabad. 

Skytone Electricals (India), 43 Indus' 
trial Area, Faridabad. 


Annapurna Pulverising Mills, Indus- 
trial Estate, Eluru, w.G. Distt.(A.P.) 

Grandlay Electrical (India), Military 
Parade Road, Nirankari Colony, 
Delhi. 


Fort Gloster Industries Ltd., Bauria 
S.E, Railway. 


Keen Pesticides Pvt, Ltd., South 
Vazhakulam, Via Alwaye, (Kerala) 


Dye based fountain pen inks (blue, green, 
red)— IS : 1221-1957 

Weatherproof polyethylene insulated 
taped or untaped, braided and contpoun- 
dedcables with aluminium conductors, 
single core, 250/440 and 650/noo volts 
grade and twin core 250/440 volts grade — 
IS: 3035 (Part II)— 1965 

Parathion emulsifiable concentrates — 

IS : 2129-1962 

Thermoplastic insulated weatherproof cables : 

(1) Polyothylene insulated, taped, brai- 
ded and compounded, twin flat 
With aluminium conductors, 

250/440 voltage grade and single 
core with aluminium conductors 
of 250/440 and, 650/1 100 voltage 
grade — 

IS :303s (Part II>— 1966 

(2) Polyuhylene insulated and polyeth- 
ylene sheathed with aluminium 
conductors, single core of 650/1100 
voltage grade and flat twin core of 
350/440 voltage grade— 

IS 13035 (Part III) — 1967 

(a) Weatherproof PVC insulated and 
sheathed cables with aluminium 
conductors only of the following types : 
(0 Single core, 250/440 and 650/1100 
volts grade 

(ft) Flat twin core, 250/440 and 650/1100 
volts grade 
IS: 30 35 (Part I) — 1965 
(6) Weatherproof polyethylene insulated 
taped, braided and compound cables 
with aluminium conductors only of 
the following types : 

(0 Single core, 250/440 and 6 50/1100 
volts grade 

(«*) Flat twip core, 250/440 and 650/1100 
K volts grade 
IS:3035(Part II) — 1965 

Endrin emulsifiable concentrates — 

IS:i3io — 1958 


103. CM/L-1559 

14-11-1967 

104, CM/L-1562 

14-11-1967 


16-11-1971 


16-11-1971 


15-11-1972 


15-11-1972 


The Fertilizers & Chemicals Travanco- Amonium chloride pure grade Type 1 
re Ltd,, Udyogmandal P.O. (Kerala) (for batteries dry cells) 

IS : 1113-1965 

Zeedoneil Industries (P) Ltd, 15 Tea-chest metal fittings — 

Dum Dum Road, Calcutta-30. IS : 10-1964 



4636 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 , 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 [Fart if— 


(I) 

(*) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

105 

CM/L-I569 

24-11-1967 

16-12-1971 

15-12-1972 

Keen Pesticides Pvt Ltd, South 

Vazhakulam,vi'a Alwayc, (Kerala) 

Malathion cmulsifiable concentrates — 

IS 12567-1963 

106 

CM/L-1578 

I-12-1967 

I-I2-I97I 

30-11-1972 

Jail Chemicals, 14/1 Mathura Rood, 
Faridabad (Haryana) 

BHC dusting powders — 

IS: 561-1962 

I07 

CM/L-I59I 

21-12-1967 

1-1-1972 

31-12-1972 

Digvijay Metal Industries, B-34,Pha 
se II, Mayapuri, Re war i Line In- 
dustrial Areak New Delhi-27 

Door closers (hydraulically regulated 

sizes 1, 2 and 3 only. 

18:3564-1966 

108 

CM/L-I60I 

«-I-I968 

1-1*1972 

31-12-1972 

A Maschmcijer Jr (India) Pvt Ltd., 
Grand Southern Trunk Road Mad- 
ras 44 

Musk ambrettc — 

IS 3131-1965 

109 

CM/L-i602 

I-I-1968 

I ‘I- 1972 

31-12-1972 

Do.j| 

Musk xylol — 

IS 3143-1969 

no 

CM/L-1604 

5-I-I968 

I-12-1971 

30-11-1972 

Jeypore Tea-chest Fitting Mfg. Co. 
P.O. Jeypore, Naharkaliya Lakhim- 
pur (Upper Assam) 

Tea-chest metal fittings— 

IS:io-I 964 

III 

CM/L-1613 

9-1-1968 

1-12-1971 

30-11-1972] 

Jai Chemicals, 14/1, Mathura Road, 
Faridabad (Haryana) 

Malathion emulsifiable concentrates 

IS 2567-1963 

III 

CM/L-1642 

23-2-1968 

I-II-1971 

31-10-1972 

Annapurna Pulverising Mills Industri- 
al Estate, Elurttj West Godavari Dlstt 

Malathion emulsifiable concentrates 

IS : 2567-1963 

*13 

CM/L-I649 

8-3-1968 

16-11-1971 

15-H-1972 

Agarwal Hardware Works Pvt Ltd, 
167, Chittaranjan Avenue, Calcutta 

Cold twisted deformed steel bars for con- 
crete reinforcement — 

IS 11786-1966 

1 14 

CM/L-I700 

17-5-1968 

16-12-1971 

15-12-1972 

Pesticldeds India, Uaisagar Road, 
Udaipur (Rajasthan) 

Organ 0 mercurial dry seed dressing 
formulations— 

IS 3284-1965 

*15 

CM/Lr-1719 

12-6-1968 

16-12-1971 

15-12-1972] 

Amrit Banaspati Go Ltd, G.T. Road, 
Ghaziabad 

18-litrc square tins — 

IS :9i6-i966 

iie 

CM/L-1788 

6-9-1968 

1-10-1971 

30-9-1972 

The Esso Standard Inc., Esso Buil- 
ding, 17 Jamshedji Tata Road, 

Bombay-i. 

Hexane food grade — 

IS 3470-1966 

117 

CM/L-I92I 

25-IO-1968 

1*11-1971 

31-10-1972 

Motilal Pesticides India, Masani-Dclhi 
Road, Mathura (U.P.) 

BHC dusting powders — 

IS 1561-1962 

118 

CM/L-183O 

II-II-1968 

16-11-1971 

I5-5-I972 

Ansons Electro Mechanical Works, 
Agadi Industrial Estate, Khot Road, 
Subash Nagar, Jogeshwari (East) 
Bombay — 60. 

Three-phase squirrel cage inductio <r 

motors 037 kW (0’5 hp) : 0-55 kW 
(0-75 bp), 0-75 kW (1 hp), 1 ■ 1 kW 
(i'5 hp), i-5 kW (2 hp) and 2-2 kW 
(3 hp), with class ‘ A ' insulation— 

IS 325-1961 

119 

CM/L-184O ; 
22-11-1968 

I-I2-I97I 

30-11-1972 

Indiclay, Plot No. 2, Udyog Nagar, 
Gorcgaon, Bombay -62 

Malathion emulsifiable concentrates 

IS 2567-1963 

130 

CM/L-I84I 

22-11-1968 

I-I2-I97I 

30-11-1972 

Do. 

BHC water dispersible powder concentra 
te s — 

IS 562-1962 

lit 

CM/Lr-l842 

25-11-1968 

I-12-1971 

30-11-1972 

The Kerala Electrical and Allied 

Engg Company Ltd., Kanjiracode, 
Kundara (Kerala) 

Three phase induction motors 2*2 kW 
(3hp) to 7’5 kW (10 hp) with class 

A’ insulation — 

IS325-1961 

133 

CM/L-I843 

27-II-I968J 

1-12-1971 

30-II-I972 

Indiclay, Plot No. 2 Udyog Nagar, 
Goregaon Bombay-62 

Copper oxychloride water dispersible 

powder onccntrates — 

IS;i507-i968 

133 

CM/L-I853 

6-I2-I968 

I-12-1971 

30-II-1972 

Indiclay, Plot No. 2, Udyog Nagar, 
S.V. Road, Goregaon Bombay-62 

Endrin emulsifiable concentrates— 
IS:i3io-i958 

124 

CM/L-1854 

6-12-1968 

16-12-1971 

15-12-1972 

Travancore Electro Chemical Indus- 
tries, Limited, ChingavanamP.O.j 
Distt Kottayam (Kerala) 

Calcium carbide, technical quality A & B 
IS:i040-i96o 

123 

CM/L-I877 

23-12-1968 

16-12-1971 

15-12-1972 

Cement Waterproofing of India, 2 

Prince AnWar Shah Road, Calcqt- 
ta-33 

Integral cement water-proofing compound 
normal sitting — 

IS 12645-1964 

126 

CM/L-I878 

27-12-1968 

I-I-1972 

31-12-1972 

Camphor & Allied Products, Ltd,, 
P. 0. Clutter buckganj, Bareilly 
(U.P.) 

Camphor technical grade, 2, 

IS 3584-1966 

127 

' CM/L-l88l 
30-12-1968 

r-1-1972 

31-12-1972 

EMC Sangam Works, G.T. Road, 
Allahabad (U.P.) 

Hard-drawn stranded aluminium and 
steel-cored aluminium conductors for 
overhead power transmission purposes 

IS 398-1961 


Sec. 3(il)] 


(i) 

(2) 

(3) 

128. 

CM/L-1902 

23-1-1969 

1-12-1971 

129. 

CM/L-1936 

17-3-1969 

I-I-I972 

130. 

CM/L-2014 

9-7-1969 

I-I2-I97I 

131. 

CM/L-2018 

1 1-7-1969 

1-12-1971 

132. 

CM/L-2076 

22-9-1969 

I-II-I97I 

133- 

CM/L-2084 

30-9-1969 

I-I-I972 

134- 

CM/L-2097 

30-9-1969 

16-12-1971 

135. 

CM/L-2115 

16-10-1969 

16-10-1971 

136. 

CM/L-2116 

16-10-1969 

16-10-1971 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


H7. C A/L-2I2I 

24-10-1969 


Euridubad (Haryana). 

,drian Plywood Industries (P) Ltd., Tea-chest plywood panels — IS: I< 
Padivattom, Edappally P.O., Erna- 
kulam Distt. (Kerala). 

ndiclay, Plot No. 2 \jdyog Nagar, DDT water dispersible powder conci 
S.V. Road, Goregaon, Bombay-62. 18:565-1961. 

ai Chemical, 14/1 Mathura Road, Endrin emuleifiable concentrates — 15 
Faridabad (Haryana). 1958. 

mnapurna Pulverising Mills, Indus- Copper oxychloride water dispersibl 
trial Estate, Elunt, W.G. Distt. concentrates — IS : 1507-1966. 

(A.P.). 

ndustrial Minerals & Chemicals Co Aldrin emulsiflable concentrates — I 
Pvt Ltd, Kurla Murol Road, Chakala 1958. 

Andheri, Bombay-58. 

Inique Industries, Nadiad-Petlad, All aluminium conductors and AC 
Near Canal, Nadiad, Distt. Kaira, ductors— IS : 398-1961. 

(Gujarat). 

lindustan Sanitaryware & Industries Flushing ciBterns for water clo 
Limited, Bahadurgarh, Distt. Roh- urinals (valveless siphonic type), 
tak. china — IS : 774-1964. 


1, vitreous 


16-10-1971 15-10-1972 Hindustan Sanitaryware & Industries Vitreous sanitary appliances (vitreous china) 

Ltd, Bahadurgarh, Distt. Rohtak. consisting of: 

(1) Wash-down water-closets ; 


(3) Wash-down water-closets, pattemal — 
height 400 mm front and reer — IS: 
*. 2556 (Part ID-1967; 

(3) Squatting pans, long pan pattern- 
size 630 mm, 580 mm and 680 mm; 

(4) Squatting pans, orissa pattern, size 
630V450 mm, 580x440 mm; IS 1 
2556 (Part IIIV1967. 

(5) 1 Wash basins, flat back, size 450x300 
If mm, 550 x 400 mm and 630 x 450 mm; 

(6) J»Wash basins, angle back size 400 x 

400 mm; 

(7) Pedestals for wash basins; 

IS : 2556 (Part IVD1967 ; 

(8) Laboratory sinks, size 400x250x150 
mm IS: 2556 (Part V)-i967; 

(9) Urinal* (bowls flat back); 


(10) Bowl, angle back, size 340 mm x 
410 mm min x 26(5 mm; ! 

IS : 2556 (Part VD-1967; 

(it) Siphonic wash-down water-closets 
(with flushing cisterns) double fron 1 
pattern with ‘s’ trap or ‘p’ tra t IS: 
2556 (Part VIID-1967; 

(12) Bidets, large — IS: 2556 (Part IX) — 
1967. 


large — IS: 2556 (Part IX) — 


i-n-1971 31-10-1972 Guest, Keen, Williams Ltd, 97, Andul (1) Black hexagon bolts, nuts and lock nut* 
Road, Shalimar, Howrah-3. (diameter range 6-39 ram) and Mack 

hexagon screws (diameter range 6-24, 
mm} — IS : 1363-1967; 

(2) Precision and semjprecsion hexagon 
bolts, screws nuts and lock nut* (dia- 
meter range 6-39 mm) — IS: 1364-1967; 

(3) Slotted countersimk head and slow d 
raised countersunk head screws (dametcr 
range 1 '6-20 mm) — IS : 1365-1968; 

(4) Slotted cheese head screws (drwemer 
range 176-20 mm) — IS: 1366-1968; 

(5) Black square bolts and nuts (diameter 
range 6-39 mm) and black square 
screws (diameter range 6-24 mm)— 
IS : 2585-1968 

(6) Coach bolts (M 6 to M 24) — IS : 2609 
1964. 

i-r-1972 31-12-1972 Industrial Trading Corpn, 1 Belur BHC dusting powder — IS : 561-1962. 

Road, Liluah, Howrah. 


138. CM/L-2128 

28-10-1969 


4638 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II— 


(1) (2) 

(3), 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

1 CM/L-2144 

19-11-1969 

I-I2-T97I 

31-5-1972 

B.R. Herman & Mohatta (India) Pvt 
Ltd, Dhandari Kalan, Near Dhandari 
Kalan Railway Station, Ludhiana 
(Punjab). 

Sand cast iron soil pipes, 75 mm, and 100 mm 
sizes only — IS: 1729-1964. 

1 ;o. CM/L-2147 
26-11-T969 

I-I2-I97I 

30-11-1972 

Oswal Electricals, 49, Industrial Area, 
Faridabad (Haryana). 

Three-phase induction motors, 0*575 kW 
to 2 ‘2 kW class A insulation — IS : 325-1961. 

141. CM/L-2150 
26-11-1969 

16-12-1971 

15-12-1972 

Ranka Cable Corpn, Industria Estate, 
Cuddapah (A.P.), 

All aluminium & ACSR conductors — IS : 
398-1961. 

142. CM/L-2152 
28-11-1969 

I-I2-I97I 

30-11-1972 

Indian Tea-chest Co, 7, Sagar Dutta 
Lane, Calcutta-12. 

Tea-chest metal fittings — IS: 10-1964) 

143. CM/L-2160 

4-12-1969 

1-12-1971 

30-11-1972 

Isa Jamal Group, Near Indian Oil 
Installation, Next to Swastdk Oil 
MiUs, Wadala, Bombay-31. 

18-lltre square tins — IS: 916-1966. 

til. CM/L-2166 
8-12-1969 

16-12-1971 

31-3-1972 

The Indian Iron & Steel Co. Ltd, P.O. 
Bumpur, Distt Burdwan (West Ben- 
gal). 

Steel rivets and stay bars for boilers — IS: 
1990-1962. 

145. CM/L-2167 
8-12-1969 

16-12-1971 

15-12-1972 

Durlabh Metal Industries Pvt Limited, 
Howrah Industrial Estate, Shed No 
L-26, L-36 and L-37, P.O. Baltikurl, 
Howrah. 

Wrought aluminium utensils, SIC grade 

IS: 21-1959. 

[45. CM/L-2174 
12-12-1969 

16-12-1971 

15-12-1972 

Pravat & Company, 34F, Simla Road, 
Calcutta-6. 

Tea-chest metal fittings— IS: 10-1964. 

1 17. CU/L-2175 

16-12-1969 

16-12-1971 

15-12-1972 

Unique Industries, Na liad-Pedad 
Road,' Near Canal, Nadiad, Distt. 
Kaira (Gujarat). 

(1) PVC .insulated cables, unsheathed, 
single core 250/440 and 650/1100 volt: 
grade with aluminium or copper conduc- 
tors; 


O'O PVC insulated and PVC sheathed cables, 
single core, 250/440 volts grade with 
aluminium or copper conductors; 

(ill) PVC insulated and PVC sheathed 
cables, twin flat, 250/440 volts grade with 
aluminium conductors only; 

( Iv ) PVC insulated and PVC Bheathed 
cables, four core, 650/1100 volts grade 
with aluminium conductors — IS: 604 
(Part I & II)-I964- 


i G- 

CM/L-2I83 

31-12-1969 

1-1-1972 

31-12-1972 

Victor Cables Corpn, 185, G.T. Roi.i, Weatherproof polyethelene insulated, taped 
Sahibabad (U.P.). or untaped, braided and compounded 

cables single core and twin core, alu- 
minium conductors, 250/440 and 650/1100 
volts grade— IS : 3035 (Part-II)- 1965. 

149. 

CM/L-219X 

31-12-1969 

1-1-1972 

31-12-1972 

Jatiya Loucha Silpa Pratisthan, 52/9, 
Canal East Road, Calcutta-11. 

Tea-chest metal fittings — IS: 10-1964 

150. 

CM/L-2202 

8-1-70 

i-X2-i97i 

30-11-1972 

Naffar Chandra Jute Mills Ltd, Bhut- 
nath Kolay Road, Kankinara, P.S. 
Jagaddal, 24 Parganas. 

New jute wool pack — IS: 4856-1968 

I5i. 

CM/L-2242 

9-2-1970 

1-12-1971 

3 11-1972 

The Ganges Mfg. Co. Ltd, Bansberia, 
Distt. Hooghly (W. Bengal), 

New jute woolpack — IS: 4856-1968. 

152. 

CM/L-2340 

8-6-1970 

16-12-1971 

15-6-1972 

The Perfect Pottery Co. (Madhya 
Bharat) Ltd, Near Western Riy. 
Hospital, Ratlam (M.P.). 

Salt-glazed stoneware pipes grrdc ‘A’ ard 
“AA r ’ size 100 mm, 150 mm, 200 mm, 230 
mm, 250 mm and 300 mm only — 

IS : 651-1965. 

153- 

CM/L-2377 

18-7-1970 

16-12-1971 

15-12-1972 

Mruthyumjaya Parklands Industries, 
Olcssa, Kottayam (Kerala). 

Tea-chesl battens — - 
IS ,-10-1964. 

154. 

CM/L-2411 

28-9-1970 

16-9-1971 

1 5-9-1972 

A. R. Nagchoudhury & Co. P. O. Barui- 
pur, Distt. 24 Parganas. 

Door closers (hydraulically rcguIsLd — 
IS : 3564-1966. 

155. 

CM'L-2427 

9-10-1970 

1-11-1971 

1 5- 1 2-1 972 

Unique ^Industries, Nadiad-Petlad 

Road, Near Mahi Canal, Pipply, 
Nadiad, Distt. Kaira (Gujarat). 

Polythene insulated ard PVC shexthed 
cables, single core and twin core flat 
250/440 volts grade with aluminii n 
conductors — 

IS : 1596-1962. 

156. 

CM/L-2435 

27-10-1970 

1-11-197X 

31-10-1972 

Dujodavala Industries, ^14/1, Delhi 
Mathura Road, Faridabad (Haryana). 

Pine oil — 

IS : 5757-1970. 



Sec. 3 ( il l THE GAZETTE OF INDIA-. OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 4639 


— ■ * 1 

(I) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

157. 

CM/L-2439 

30-10-1970 


I5-7-I972 

Khandcah Pesticides Pvt. Ltd, Station 
Road, Dharangaon, Distt. Jalgaon, 
W.Rly. 

DDT dusting powders— 

IS : 564-1962 

138. 

GM/L-2440 

30-101970 

i-n-1971 

15-7-1972 

Do. 

Endrin emulsiflable concentrates — ■ 

IS : 1310-1938 

159. 

CM/L-2441 

30-10-1970 

I-II-I970 

15-7-1972 

Do. 

DDT emulsiflable concentrates — 

IS : 633- 1956 

160. 

GM/L-2443 

30-10-1970 

1-11-1971 

31-10-1972 

Bhoruka Udyog, Bara Mandir, Panihati 
P.O., 24 Parganas. 

Steel drums 20 liters capacity grade B-2 
(galvanized) 

IS : 2552-1963 

161. 

cM/L-2447 

4-11-1970 

16-11-1971 

15-11-1972 

Joy Ice Creams 82, Dr. Annie Besant 
Road, Worli, Bombay-18 

Ice-creams — 

IS : 2802-1964 

162, 

CM/L-24SX 

6-11-1970 

16-11-1971 

15-11-1972 

Kutty Flush Door & Furniture Co. Pvt. 
Ltd, Poonamallce High Road, Koya- 
mbedu, Madras-49. 

Timber panelled & glazed door shutters-. 
IS : 1003 (Part D-1966 

i«3. 

CM/L-2452 

6-11-1970 

16-11-1971 

13-11-1972 

Do. 

Timber door, window & ventilator frames — 

IS : 4021-1967 

164, 

CM/L-2453 

6-11-1970 

16-11-1971 

15-11-1972 

S.K. Abed AI1, 9, Meleod Street, 

Calcutta- 1 7 

Tea-chest metal fittings — 

IS : 10-1964 


3 4/L-2455 

t 2-XI-I970 

16-11-1971 

15-3-1972 

Evershine Electrical Works (I), 10/61, 
Industrial Area, Kerti Nagar, New 
Delhi-i 

(1) PVC insulated cables, unsheathed, single 
core, aluminium conductor, 250 44c 
and 650/1100 volts : and 

(2) PVC insulated cables, sheathed, single 
core aluminium 250/440 and 650/1100 
volts — 

IS : 694 (Part ID-1964 

r 55. 

CM/L-2456 

12-11-1970 

I6-XI-X97I 

I3-II-X972 

Milk Products Factory, Vidhyadhara- 
tutram, Vijawada-i (A.P.) 

Milk powder (whole & skin) — 

IS : 1165-1967 

1 37, 

CM/L-2459 

13-9-1970 

1-12-1971 

30-11-1972 

Bljay Industries, 36/1/1 Canal West 
Road, Calcutta-11. 

Steel drums, 20 litres capacity, grade B2 
(ungalvanized) — 

IS : 2552-1970 

168. 

CM/L-2461 

30-11-1970 

X-I2-I97X 

30-11-1972 

Yogirai Chemical Laboratories, Gill 
Road, Millerganj, Ludhiana 

Correcting fluid — 

IS : 4175-1967 

169. 

CM/L-2462 

30-11-1970 

1-12-1971 

30-11-1972 

Hindustan Gum & Chernicals Ltd., 
Birla Colony, Bhiwani (Haryana) 

Guar meal an livestock feed— 

(IS : 4193-1967 

170. 

CVifL-2463 1 

30-11-1970 

1-12-1971 

31-3-1973 

Mehsana District Co-operate Milk 
Product Union Ltd, Dudhsagar 
Dairy, Mehsara (Gujarat) 

Infant milk food — 

IS : 1547-1968 

171- 

CM/L-2464 

30-11-1970 

1-12-1971 

30-11-1972 

Chaliha Rolling Mil’s (P) Ltd, 13 

Chanditala Lane, 35, Netaji Subhas 
Chandra Bose Rd, Tollygunge, 
Calcutta-44. 

Roller 1 steelsectjonfrair e barfor vcntilan 1 - 
F?B — 

IS : 1038—1968 

172. 

CM/E-2473 

31 I2-I97C 

1 12-1971 

30-11-1972 

Joyotl Wire Industries, Mahajan’s 

Compound, Bombay- Agra Road, 
Vikhrcli Bombay-79 

All aluminium conductors ard AC SP con 
ductors — 

IS : 398-1961 

173- 

CM/L-247S 

3-12-1970 

I-I2-X97I 

3T-3-I973 

Tata Iron & SteelCo Ltd, Jameshedpur 

Non-oriented eleCricnl steel sheets for 
magnetic circuits— 

IS : 648-1970 

174- 

CM L-2482 
10-12-1970 

16-12-1971 

15-12-1972 

Coastal Ceramics & Clay Works 
(P) Ltd. Cheruvannur, 

Feroke (Kerala) 

Salt-glazed stoneware pipes, too mm dia- 
meter— 

IS : 651-105 6 

17 s. 

CM/E-248< 

23-X2-I970 

T-I-1972 

iy-4-1972 

Venkateshwara Agro Chemicals & Min- 
erals, 6/103 Thiruvottiyur FUgh 

Road, Madras-Ri 

Malsthlor emulsifiblc concentrate— 

IS : 2567-1963 

I7fi. 

CM/-L-2496 

29-12-1970 

I-T-T972 

31-12-1972 

Jhnlani Tron & Metal Works, 13-6 
Miles, Delhi-MecrutRoad, Ghsziabad 

Cast iron flushirrcisterrF (keEtypr) Hp 

1. leve’ , 12-e litres capacity — 

IS : 774-1964 


.'[No. CMP/13 :i2] 



4^4° THE OAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 [Part II— 


HH<> sfto 3312. — OT OT TT HHrftET HOTF HOT (sOTOT ftrf^PT, 1955, % fafwi 8 % OT- 

fafwr ( i ) % wR?fk hthh hot ^ sfk $ ^rgfHH Pot hot | Pp hi% Sr Poth h%t for ^ i 76 

MTTJOTi' *PT JEfpOTT HEJ fttfOTC, 1971, H Pot OT | : — 





hotIh hot *ftr 

f«OT spt HHftr 

HT^HHHrfHff tt het nk 

HT5HH % WlfpT Hig/ 

0 

fwfer 

Sr 

HE 

ot 

srfw Hk HfHOTEp 






IS : othet 

(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

1. 

*ft rTH/nrr-21 

1-12-1971 

30-11-1972 

STOTT Hio fw°, 

Ptot nk 


3-12-1956 



rjlTHtTET [|Kt pTEH 

nHrfofOTT pOTJRl ^ 





T1WOT, HRf-10 

'iffPTr srfYr jjtt — 






IS : 21-1959 

2. 

hT n;rr/rm-36 

16-11-1971 

15-11- 1972 

fr HHHH 

POTtIt Trane itm jfrnrf 


4-11-1957 



HOT SPOT Pt°, fOTliTT3H, 

% fSp^ 6«<i Hs4i < 






FE^rPOTT vOx TpiTrr 






'rtr r^fHfHrnr 






— 






IS : 398-1961 

3. 

HV tTH/t^-63 

1-12-1971 

31-5-1972 

f? EfOTT HIT flfjFT 

HTEftT ht Set— 


7-2-1958 



?Eo Pro, <fto sfto 4^d"<Jfar, 

IS '■ 5 33-1954 





('d oM o ) 


4 

ifV rnr/iTH- 1 0 6 

16-12-1971 

1 5-12-1972 

fr %pOTH REJo %<,, 

HTTl HHTT, — 


4-11- 1958 



fHOTFRTT TTOT T , PiTHT 

IS : 261-1966 





hhhYt 


5, 

Hi rrrr/rnT— 129 

1-11-1971 

31-10-1972 

f? ^:wr TTT- 

w 'rrwfhr 


22-6- 1959 



TTOTH 5TOT 'jfTTT p-fo, 

SrH SH — 





3 4-HtTrFr, HOTtH— 1 6 

IS : 632-1966 

6 

SEft tTH/^-143 

1-1-1972 

31-12-1972 

JOTOTk %° 

, ^PT ^ ^Tft % %tT 


24-9-1959 



TTHTT, HTOTT ($TH) ^ qW 






IS : 10-1964 

7 

Ht nTr/^-15 0 

1-11-1971 

31-10-1972 

*? PfFT itj) pi i| ^ TT7T1T7BT, 

HHHg qfer tppTH — 


15-10-1959 



’Ttr OTT, Ttr, 

IS : 1398-1968 





(*ftTH) % TS, HR^-2 8 


8 

Ht rnr/EH-153 

1-11-1971 

31-10-1972 

f? TOTHf TTO^ %PotH TTTT[- 

■ TT rr^- tf[, tfc 


15-10-1959 



^HH HOT TfrHT Pt o j 34 — 

TfwrfH'B- — 





WW- 1 6 

IS : 560-1969 

9 

tfV trir/Cpr- 20 5 

1-12-1971 

30-11-1974 

HTT 

T13TT (?JTfSnT 


20-7-1960 



fHOT rfteijHif hPthh Pr°, 

hht SrrSn) — 





vl*rH( (To ) $TT 

IS : 1165-1967 


fjfHT (hjttth) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 2T, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


Sec. 3(4)] 


464I 


(l) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) 


10 

Tft tTTf/n^f -224 

1 - 1-1972 

31 - 12 - 1972 

T 7 TR 'TTTs^T 7 ft fto 7 W 

TET ftctfftfr % f%T£ 


16 - 9-1969 



TTo 2 4 4 TJ 1 IET 

TTTrTS 4 !! llfti — 






IS : 10-1964 

11 

ft tTTT/tnr -2 4 3 

1 - 12-1971 

30 - 11-1972 

ff^TET fft srr° fto, 

1 8 :— rfftr %■ ircforrT 


23 - 11-1960 



fto 3 ft 0 its iTlftETRTC 

ftr % fftzf — 





(^o 5 To) 

IS : 916-1966 

12 

ft qiT/crH -357 

1 - 12-1971 

30 - 1 1-1972 

^rf’F^’TET E TI 'S' Id °fi <4 4 R- 

arg ft is TTrrfv 


20 - 11-1961 



ffftET (ffftT), ^- 4 , ft- 

250 ITTT $ THT 





f^TTH gfrUT OPTUr VljJ< 

? -nfT TijTr % trrap; frTr 






71 ZT 7 7 TH — 






IS : 4064-1967 

13 

ft triT/ftr -361 

16 - 12-1971 

15 - 12-1972 

ftft SRTTfcr ftjo 97 0 ftft- 

1 S—Tft^TT % Tirf’FR 


26 - 11 - 1961 



7 ET 7 , ftHT ft 5 (To 51 o) 

% fft) 1 -- 






IS : 916-1966 

14 

ft TTTT/q^T — 3 69 

1 - 1-1972 

31 - 12-1972 

ft ft g*T TTiH 6 4 W, 60)444 

1 8 ~ft 37 % JRftTT 


22 - 2-1971 



for, ni feft- 1 5 

ftT % ftft — 






IS : 916-1966 

15 

ft 0 ^r/i ^-379 

1 - 1-1972 

31 — 12—1 9'72 

ft ftETH 77 ; tr? TET 7 

ftftrfr 9777 9714 tetT 


25 - 1-1962 



9 T 3477 T fto, ftjT, SI +77 

% TT’S'-T fig% 





7 H 7 H 3 , fWT ^BTST 

tftrftfftpr *rft 57 TTa 


^ 777 3T% TT^f^. 
9E — 

IS : 398-1961 


1C I^/l^r-381 

9-2-1962 

17 TTq-/tTH-389 

5-3-1962 


18 #Ttit/'TH-424 

30-6-1962 


19 ft tnr/tT^-432 
18-7-1962 


16-12-1971 15-12-1972 ^tZTT^T 

7ft, 77777 (te^etet) 

16-11-1971 15-11-1972 ft %747T 9T° 

?m> fftTT fwo, ftwt ^TTTT, 
£TT7 T'-T-Ptl I— 1 


1-1-1972 31-12-1972 HdlB 

^nft^FT, gTifftTTTt 

ftrar (arsi sftw) 

1-1-1972 31-12-1972 fwT +KHl^47/3, 

ft ft 7ft, ETftsTRTT, 

■sEt^T TOftr OiiF^Mk) 


E7ET 'TTd'ST; — 

IS : 561-1962 

7t TV TV %77T (250 

Tf'-c. cf4T 650 JftEJ 

ft) — 

IS: 694 (TET 1 *flr 
2) — 1964 

7fhio y^RiT^rnPi'iFqf 
w, 7ft gft: rn^- 
ftfft*r =ht?ee — 

IS: 398-1961 

( 1 ) aftr m 
ftftiHT 41447 37 % 
"ft ft Ttfftr 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


tPART II- 


20 cnr/D^r — 467 

30 - 10-1962 


16 - 11-1961 15 - 11-1972 WnffTTT 2 TT 5 ET 5 ^Tfr ( 1 9 3 5 ) 

26-%^ TtT, Wfttr, 


250/440 tfk 650 / 

1100 fa— 

( 2) %^T <TftT % 

^rrawf >ft *fr tfY 

Ttfferar T t f fat 

250/440 fa 

*— 

IS: 694 (*TFT 1 Tk 
2 ) — 1964 

fatT?, sofa 
<P fag % mft, 
CT?T 3, fa 1 


21 ifl ittt/itt-547 

14 - 6-1963 

22 ifrnr/qrr -5 54 

26-61963 


23 ift gE/gT— 562 
11 - 7-1963 

24 tftgr/gT -588 
4 - 10-1963 


25 tftgT/g*T -591 


16 - 12-1971 15 - 12-1972 tfte far 134 

TTIT Tfa, TOTT Wit- 
55 

1 - 11-1971 30 - 10-1972 5 ?TTT#HT ffatf, 

gg^ if?-. 
Eftrfat fan C’JTter 
faw) 

1 - 11-1971 30 - 4-1972 „ 


16-10-1971 15-10-1972 ft fajo g 1 ^ ( 

fsrffar fa» 
ffafT %fwr g^T 
crrfe:^ ft^rr srftr fa- 
*rr, ^ifa -71 


21 - 10-1963 


16 - 11-1971 15 - 11-1972 VIIVrffaK 2 TC H If^dD ( 1935 ) 

fao, 26 tIt, 'nftq'j 
Tffa-71 


IS : 1322-1965 
TET % fair 

mg % firffa — 

IS : 10-1964 

^ gr tft m?pT qrm:— 
IS : 561-1962 


^ gT if! TTftlR#r 

^5f ^ot — 

IS : 562-1962 
l) Tl <, (fipTT 

stfa m%) <ft ft 
TtffafaET, 250/440 
?T“TT 650/1100 
5 ffa fa %, afar smrr 

g?gfaf^ mmirf 

( 2 ) far (<ft 

ft *3fa <ft 
>fV ift "dfro 2 5 0/ 
440 ^a: fa % 
TtWT WTT g^falfalT 
mwf 650 / 

1100 St fa % 

— 

IS: 694 (*mr 1 

2 ) — 1961 

TTT^ £ fag 
fawfa ( Hifci y) — 
IS: 1580-1969 


Sf.c. 3 (ii ) 3 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 , 1972 /ASVINA 29 , i $94 


26 tft im/l^r -592 
21 - 10-1963 


27 ^ 05/^-596 
30 - 10-1963 

28 ?ff itr/H/T — 598 
7 - 11-1963 


29 ?ftlTB/<^r -621 

22 - 1-1964 

30 tft tni/^r -677 

25 - 5-1964 

31 tft (TR/l^r -696 

17 - 6-1964 


16-1 1-1971 15-1 1 - 1972 TTEftETT 3 R SrTWJT Sf SFTTT sffft 

( 1935) faro, 26, %RRTT IR^^^rfaftET 

ITT^T, ?Rt -71 rFT ST TIT % rT*TT ^T^f 

tt r Pr^r T 5 ?r rt% — 
IS : 1838-1961 

16 - 12-1971 1 5 - 12-1972 Tk-.T^TT’ ?fw, q<WiR ft ft ft ^ faifjfrfET 

( TT 3 Tr-TCT ) — 

IS : 565-1961 

1 - 12-1971 31 - 5-1972 ErnffET krfa^TT -6 (ffam) (l) $q^ft RTR qi% 

43 , fyfajJET Rfarr, ft ft ft forr, ifr-T 

TflTmT (qTqT'RI ) RT% sqk igq;q 

31 % T^fafaqir qiPTEt 
37 %, 250/440 qtr 
650 /llOO^q? — 

( 2 ) S?% ffa tt =qn; 
3 >'tT qT% ^n: eft 
^ ft TtfiliT Wk <ftft 
ft %far tt% "rrj jqq-^q 
qkr % 5 r^r, trtt w«rr 
^fTwf rt%, 
250/440 RT 650 / 
lioo ffar fir, yftr 

(3) |kt Rftft fw gtq- 
Rift "rnffafr kfrqr 
2501440 ffrT WS 
3 % 5 TSrr, % RToTPf 
RT%t — 

IS 1 694 («TFT 1 
2) — 1964 

16 - 12-1971 16 - 12-1972 k€f 6 T$r¥ ^fsRT ^ 9 6 HR ft ^ ft iprffrTfftR 

Tty, ( ■'Tjft'MI'i ) IS : 562—10972 


16 - 12-1971 15 - 12-1972 


ft ft ft R^FT qT 3 TT- 
IS : 564-1961 


16-11-1971 15-11-1972 fa 49ETT %o ft ft ft ftfSRT (vTTTt 

RTT yfWT f%o, UTFT 4 RT, ^Tft) fa^ft % 

24 -rmhi (f ° fRi?r) 1100 fk:jcrf 

TTT RRifanft ffaSTT 
% Rif *tw r^rfar- 
faim RiEFFt rt% — 
IS: 1554 (iT FT l)~ 
1969 


4644 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 [Part II— 

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) 


32 tTH/rer-788 
25-9- 1969 


33 *ff tm/rr^r-799 

12-10-1964 


34 Tpr/cnT-831 
2-11-1964 


35 mr/rTSf- 832 
2-11-1964 


36 OTT/^-8 3 9 

23-11-1964 


37 4t irR-/tnT~844 
28-11-1964 


38 r^/iT^-84 5 

28-11-1964 


16-1 2-1971 1 5-12-1 972 3^1 srfzt f— 46 , ElffTff % fBTTDET 

T7ETT- % l%tT q pR f y p f f 

f ETT (ftraT STRETT) 4TJTT?ft ^ 

TfeTT 

IS : 1135-1966 

1-1 1-197 1 31-10-1 972 SPByrrf ^-4714^4 f^T, rrfrffr «PT TPRv ft q 

%*ET (qflR-q jrg — 

ifPTRft fw) (srrET ST^w) IS: 1310-1958 


16-1 1-1971 


16-11-1971 


1-12-1971 


1-12-1971 


1 5-1 1-1972 SW°iH ST^ZTT RTo f?To B ^T9T?r (BT H4i 

16 7, f%Efr) ^ 

^r^Tf Tfrfora- ifr^r ! ^ 

(25 firifr ) 3irr?r frcr 
% i"xi" ^ 
2”xJ'W $r (25 
16 Mt) 

^50 fifift 12.7 
OT srcnre wcT- 
^ *n% SprvET — 
IS : 226-1969 


15-1 1-1972 


30-1 1-1972 ftsEf TTTTT>TM, 

128- 3f3TT iTR TT?, 

B3W-2 


B’TCTT ^ETTcT (BraTCq 
^*0” WET % 
^ 1 ” (25 
Mt) °TET cPP 

^ l" '<i" % 

2”X i" (25 m 

X 6 fW *r 50 § 
Pnft x 12.7 ftnft 

^rr TTirn: 

TT% ITtWT — 

IS : 1977- 1969 

<4*1+1 % *Eft TiT^TtT 
(fttft ;5fE4 
OTT fft) — 

IS : 1221-1957 


30-11-1972 51WK TfZ ^0 fro, l) ST Kcffa pER- 

284, 6§RMI ^KjTiR TR, IS : 2818-1964 
STT5ERE5TTT, +'4 <6 Til— 35 2) iRfTT — 

IS : 3790-1966 


1) E-fo^ qraTR%sfft 
IS : 1943-1964 

2 ) Tt-fer?r % arn- 
IS : 2566-1965 


1-12-1971 30-11-1972 



4645 


Sec. 3(.'i/] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1S94 


(l) (2) (3) (4) (5) ( 6 ) 


3) mt V ^ srt>~ 
IS : 2874-1964 

^ % WT % - 

4) : 2875-1964 

5 ) Tf— f'T’T^T ipTfr- 

IS : 3667- 1964 

6) ftarH(rr^ 
feCT) 'FITT- 

lS : 3669-1966 

7) TFRTT % TT 

TRET 'FT'3'r — 

IS : 3750-1966 
s) '*?m W — 
IS : 3751- I 966 ?T>T 
9) faspr^r 
TR — 

IS : 3794-1966 


39 ?fr CT*T/tTFr—8 50 1-12-1 971 30-11-1972 ^TST 4TO fao 49 1 ) 'URTft — 

28-1 1-1964 it 3fto zt fm, Sfiffoi $HT?r IS: 2818-1964 

2) sfR — 

IS ' 3790-1966 


40 et qrf/i^r-851 1-12-1961 30- 11-1972 ” ” 1 ) n-fepT TRET % TfV— 

28-11—1064 IS : 1943-1964 

2) ft frapr TRIO- % gU 
IS : 2566-1965 

3 ) Tlfr 'ft TSTT'T % TT7— 

IS : 2874-1964 

4) 5]Z % tppFT % sfTT — 
IS : 2875-1964 

5 ) Tf-fTTH pm- 

IS : 3667-1964 

6 ) f'TTT'JJT fe-TR nR-fVqT^ 

*FT«T 

IS ■ 3 6 6 9~ 1966 

7 ) JTPET *H%»1 47T 1R- 
TOT ?FTS1 — 

IS : 3750-1966 

8) 'fflft W ^?4TT 

IS : 3751-1966 

9) frRDTJH (r^T-ferr) 



4646 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


41 rnr/r?T-852 

28—11—1964 


42 irjT/rrsr-85 3 
28—1 1—1 [64 


43 nir/tiTT-854 
28-11-1964 


44 rft 855 

28-11-1964 


45 fit mr/rr^-856 

28-1 1-1964 


*8 wt rnr/nsr-857 
28-1 1-1964 


(3) 


( 4 ) 


( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


1-12-1971 


1-12-1971 30-11-1972 


1-12-1971 30-11-1972 


(^Elf: I5CT) Rlfa’pp:, 


1-12-1971 30-11-1972 


1-12-1971 30-11-197: 


1-12-1971 1-12-1971 


30-1 1-1972. TTHTST RWRTRtT faFR, IS: 3794 -1966 

rr) 57 — reter mmi i ) RrerEr — 

Tfa , 4* J| , *t< '4 7T I IS: 281 8— 1964 

2 ) Ifwr aftT — 

IS : 3790-1966 

JTRTR 1 ) rr.(cq^ TrEFET % TTT— 

R5R3f) 5 7-E>TETT RERIHf IS : 1943-1964 
fn, wm*, 2 ) 

IS : 2566-1964 

3) vrify fft thtet % srt> 

IS : 2874-1964 

4 ) ■TTTST — — 
IS : 3667-1966 

5 ) vrrfr Rt jprbt-- 
IS 3 7 5 1— 1 9 6 6 

1 ) RTCdfa ftflEET — 
IS : 2818-1964 

2 itfwr — 

IS : 3790-1966 

1 ) T?RfT % ^ 

IS : 1943-1964 

2) *ft-f?3PT % sfft — 
IS : 2566-1964 

3) RT^lfrqZ7R%RTt 
IS : 2874-1964 

4 ) ■t>H 5 1 

IS : 3667-1966 
5 ) Rift JpTTT — 
IS : 3751-1966 

TTtfU ffRTTRT? farE, (trot l) 'flOrfb — 

?TTW) RTTEft RET, IS : 2818-1964 

JfETWT 2 ) |fwr 5fft — 

IS: 3790-1966 
T W3T rrcrwE5f fE~E, 1 ) <r-fclW ( EEET % 

RRFT) iW RET, IS : 1943-1964 

*T6?n,|'p'i4>Tir 2 ) ^t-fer?r %afr^ 

IS : 2566-1965 

3) RTd qRTET % Jftt 
IS : 2874-1964 

4) Et-feEE ‘tiHST — 

IS : 3667-1966 

5) Wtft *ft — 
IS : 3751-1966 



Sec, 3(ii)J 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4647 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


47 oV 80/00-858 
28-1 1-1964 


48 ot rnr/T™T-8 5 9 
28-1 1-1964 


49 Ot ^O/OO-BGO 
28-11-1964 


50 rrif/rr T— s 6 1 

28-11-1964 


51 Ot PO/rro-862 
28-1 1-1964 


5 2 rriT/tr^— 805 

28-11-1964 


(3) 


(4) 


(5) 


( 3 ) 


1-12-1 971 31-5-1972 


1-12-1971 30-1 1-1972 irfHO'Ey oj olo ffto 00880. 1 OROlO i?f008 — 

24 177787 1 IS:2818-1964 

2) SfOTO oft — 

IS: 3790-1966 
1 ) rr-feoo 17767 % o'ft 
IS: 1943-1964 
2) Ol-fTOO 8708 % oft 
IS2566-1 965 
3 oftt 71 1708 % oft 
IS 2874-1964 

4) 08 % OW % Oft 
IS 2875-1964 

5 ) ol-fiO'l 87TST— 

IS 3667- 1964 

( 6) foOOJO frOO (rro- 
174 'i ) HITT — 

IS: 3669-1966 

7) OHHT 3f%o 88 
1708 HOOT 

IS 3750-1966 

8) OPCT ‘ 7 ft’ 80 fT — 

IS: 37 51-1966 oft 

9) foOT^O (rro-fTOO) 

oft — 

IS : 3794-1966 

1 ) OROTO |f 008 — 
IS: 2818-1964 

2 ) ^fooo oft — 

IS: 3790-1966 

1 ) OROto tf 088 — 
IS: 2818-1964 

2 ) |f008 877 — 

IS: 3790-1966 

1 ) 7- fTOO 07 oft — 
IS : 1964-1964 

2 ) ol-fftro 3J7: Oft — 
IS : 25 66-19 65 

3 ) oftt Ot 07 o'ft — 

IS: 2874-1964 

30-1 1 — 1972 8TOOT 08 IT o foo , OtTOlOf, l) OFOfto ^foOO — 
fO07 gOOt IS: 2818-1964 

2 ) ^f008 O'ft — 

IS: 3790-1966 


1-12-1971 30-1 1-1972 OTOftfl 07 Ho ffto, OH 

8181 fool gOHt 


1-12-1971 30-1 1-1972 fntflOO 07 f0~0 Ho fOo 

tItTOS -24 0*081 


1-12-1971 30-11-1972 


1-12-1971 



[Part II— 


4648 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


(l) (2) (3) (4) (5) 


( 6 ) 


53 *ft rrir/itsT— 866 


54 ftV PTtr/n~r-8B8 
28-11-1964 


56 rrpf /rrrT— s 7 1 

28-11-1964 


56 n^/TT^-872 

28-11-1965 


1-12-1971 30-1 1-19 72 l) rT-fewiTW% jfft 

IS: 1943-1964 

28-1 1-19 64 2) :#fefew OTllT 

IS 2566-1965 

3 ) wr % arfe; 

IS: 2874-1964 

4 ) topt % *rwr % 

Tfe — 

IS: 2875-1964 

5) sft-few T7TT1- 
IS: 3667-1964 

6) ffTSP’J^r fcT^T (rrpf 

few-) WTT- 
IS: 3669-1966 

7 ) TWT EfTT tf?- 

W TO — 

IS: 3750-66 

8) VTRt 4ft WST — 

IS: 3751-1966 «ftr 

9) fwyf (rn^-f^rar) 
^ — 

IS : 3794-1966 

1-12-1971 30-1 1-1 972 To felo 12 - 1 ) ' WftfeT £fem — 

KII^ ^PT, Tifi^nT - 1 5 IS: 2818-1964 

2 ) ftfftw Tfe — 

IS: 3790-1966 

1-1 2-1971 30-1 1-1972 fa Tfan fW4T To fao, fff l) «rn?fk — 

24 Tttht IS: 281 8-1964 

2) Sfftw sffe- — 

IS: 3790-1966 

l—l 2— 1971. 30-1 1-1972 ” " l) nr-few TWT % sftT 

IS: 1943-1964 

2) sft-few q^fpr % 

Ttt — 

IS: 2566-1965 

3) *mt ‘4ft' qnm aft* 
IS: 28 74— 19 64 

4) ajZ % tfwi % 

aft*— 

IS: 2875—1964 

5 ) TT*T — 

IS 3667-1964 

6) fel 1 few rr^r- 

few ) + H3I 

IS3669-66 



Sec. 3 ( 3 )] 


THH GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 , 1972 /ASVINA 29 , J 1,94 


57 Tft rrtT/rr^r — 874 


28 — 11—1964 


68 Tf fTR/n'T-SSl 


28 - 1 1-1964 


5 9 tfl crq/CTT -8 8 2 
28 - 11-1964 


1 - 12-1971 90—1 1—1972 fTTTtfTTT to fro, TRnTT 

ofTtmrr. for on 1 


1 - 12-1971 30 - 11-1972 


60 fft HO/iri-834 


- 28 - 1 1-1964 


7) TTWT tftr JfTT 

94TTT TNOT — 

IS : 3750-66 

8) w'r 'or TTTT — 
IS : 3751-1966 

9) PTSR^T (r^r— fjoET) 

ttt — 

IS : 3794-1966 

1-12-1971 30-1 1-1972 jfTO fto 5)^T (l) tl-feTOT SjZ sflt 

^TTyr I IS : 2566—19 65 

( 2 ) tt-fearor 

IS : 3667-1966 

1-1 2-197 1 30-1 1-1972 ftttrftTr ^ t o ftfo , TFETZ (l) OTTcftT IfoTT- 

tfttlrnrr. 1 IS : 2818-1964 

(2) tffoTT Tit — 

IS : 3790-1966 

1-12-1971 30-1 1-1972 „ „ (l) tr-feTT q^ff % 

Tit — 

IS : 1943-1964 
( 2 ) tt-feror ff 
TTt — 

IS: 2566-1965 

(3) qjOT 
t Tit — 

IS: 2874-1964 

(4) WI % q^?r 

% tit — 

IS: 2875-1964 
( 5 ) tl-ftTW TTST- 
IS: 3667-1964 
(6)|7TT^[T ffiq'i (rT^r- 
ftm TOUT — 

IS: 3669-1966 
( 7 ) W ^Tl qa> 
¥PT TT¥T — 

IS. 1 3750-1966 
(«) OTtt tft' TOTT — 
)IS: 3751-1966 
(9) fHTt^t (rrw- 

ftw) trt — 

IS: 3794-1966 

1-12-1971 30-1 1-1972 ftor ftfo, ftTTT, gprtt ^ ttt — 

IS : 1943-1964 


6 


4650 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


1 


2 


3 


4 



[Part II— 


61 Tt nri/ CHT-886 

28-11-1964 

62 TTcr/rr^r— 89 4 
28-11-1964 


63 tfT lTT/^-898 

' 28-11-1964 

64 St rrT/^-903 
28-11-1964 


65 ?ft<TT/^-906 

28-11-1^64 

I 

I 

6 6 tnr/rTT- 910 

28-1 1-1^64 


30-11-1972 *fi°, 47/48 ^ — 


1-12-1971 30-11-1972 


1-T 2— 1 97 1 30-11-1972 


1-12-1971 30-11-1972 


1-12-1971 30-11-1972 


1-12-1971 30-11-1972 


Ti -jjHKNT TFT ^rTV, 'TTT ft? 
fsnPJT 5ET?T I 
1 1 M r 4 7TT f H I tT 0 j 47, 
^ITTRT TTT, fsftvrfT I 


iTTFfr-^fyjn Ptrt Pt° 

(faf^r frrr) ; shkettt, 

24-TOTT I 

OOM'HlC fTHT (Ps^faR 
OTidHTT TW»TT$ 1™*' 

5TT 0 pT o ) , fTTI 1 , 3TR>- 

*TT TTifPlTTr, §I9«I 
^SlPdTT fTTTTT ^ 0 {FT 0 , 

1 a, Tty, ds+ivft *ett, 

2 4— TTTFTT I 

ft TR pTHT 31° Pt°, 

<ft° ittto tfhTTTJT, I 


IS: 1943-1964 
( 1 ) tT-fero q^-q- % 

m— 

IS: 1943-1964 

( 2 ) sft-firsrar ^ 

% sffr — 

IS: 2566-1964 
( 3) 'ffrft lit 'TTtt'T 

% 3pft — 

IS: 2874-3974 

(4) TWT ^ TiTET % 
Tit — 

IS: 2875-1964 

(5) afN-fcET 4PE5T- 
IS: 3667-1964 

(e) Pett^ f^nr 

W3T — 

IS: 3669-1966 

(7) trwr jfn 

TTtET TiTST 
IS: 3750-1966 

(8) vrrCV tft 4 tot- 
IS: 3751-1966 

( 9) (irw-ft^rr) 
5fft — 

IS: 3794-1966 
Tt-fFESTT ITTET $ 3fft — 
IS: 2566-1965 

( 1 ) 'OTTffft ^ftm- 
IS: 2818-1964 
(2) ?fWT Tft — 

IS: 3790-1966 

'fr-fTJTT T5TET % TtT — 
IS: 2566-1965 

( 1 ) 'ththt % tIt 

IS: 1943-1964 

(2) ^r-ftw TZTR ^ 

wft — 

IS: 2566-1965 



Sec. 3 (ii)J 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVJNA 29. 1894 


4651 


6 7. *fr ^8/^T-91 9 
2S-1 1-11)64 


68. Tft rTR/q^~9 20 
28— 11—1964 

69. 4ft rnr/rrr-92 7 

28-1 1-1964 


70. *ft tTR/rrsf— 9 2 8 
28-1 1-1964 


1-12-1971 30-11-1972 


1-12-1971 


30-1 1-1972 qtTTFft ^ ffto, 

(fafftiTCT 7J2T) 4ft 0 ;fto 

m, f7Trrr, i 


( 3) vrrft 4ft Ts^rrr % 

^ — 

IS: 2874-1964 

(4) TTirq- £ tot 

£ zfti 

IS: 2875-1964 

( 5 ) T'm- 

IS: 3667-1966 

(e) wi % ftfoT 

'TTfFT aftr — 

IS: 3750-1966 

( 7 ) ?rrft ?ft — 

IS: 3751-1966 

■ 12-1971 30-1 1-1 97 2 1[Z fro *0 ffto, (1) |f 4 nTT — 

Siwr ^nftpFP-, 24 -T^Hr IS: 2818-1966 

( 2 ) srftm sftr— 

IS : 3790-1966 
sfr-ftapT TT 4 H % aftt- 
IS: 2566-1965 
( 1 ) srrTiftq- $ftm- 
IS: 2818-1964 

( 2 ) *ft* — 

IS: 3790-1966 

( 1 ) TTTT % TTr- 

IS: 1943-1964 

( 2 ) sft-fopT TT^FT ^ 

jf (IS: 2566-1965 

( 3 ) *frft 4 ftT 24 fF%^- 
iS: 2874-1964 

( 4) FWT % T41HT *5 

IS : 2875-1964 

( 5 ) *ft-forr >tof- 
IS : 3667-1964 

{ 6 ) fftsp^T fepr 

(rifr-f^r) spt^ — 

IS : 3669-1966 
( 7 ) Wl ^ «ET 

TT 4 FT *T JDTfT— 

IS : 3750-1966 

( 8 ) «rrft 4ft my r- 
IS : 3751-1966 

5ftT 

( 9 ) (rrBf- 
fem) TIT — 

IS : 3794-1966 


1-12-1971 30-11-1972 



4652 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II — 


71. ?ft THT /tr^T— 921 
28-11-1964 


72. tTJT/iFT-942 
28-11-1964 


73. ^ TTTr/q^T— 94 3 
28-11-1964 


74. ?ft tn=r/tr?!T-94 5 
28-11-1964 


75. OTT/rr^r— 946 
28-11-1964 


1-12-1971 30-11-1972 ^ f#HT fro, 

(6f?3PR frR) 3TW5T, 
24 TORT I 

1-12-1971 30—11—1971 


1-12-1972 30-11-1972 ^ #571 3R ffr*T qro fro 

(7fff*FR 43f4'ST I 

24-TFPTI I 

1-12-1971 30-11- 1972 T*TT frro ^0 fro, TR#fw, 

gTTft I 


1-12-1971 30-11-1972 


( 1 ) mfrta ijffim— 

IS : 2818-1964 

( 2 ) 

IS : 3790-1966 

( 1 H-fenr ttotr % sf^- 

IS : 1943-1964 

( 2 ) afr-for?r TOFT % 

IS : 2566-1965 

( 3 ) wft tfr tor % 

afft — 

IS ; 2874-1964 

( 4 ) wr tor $ 

— 

IS : 2875-1964 

( 5 ) ifr-ferr 

IS : 3667-1964 
( e) Prt ' ^t torar 
( Ifr— fz 4 "1 ) TTOT— 

IS : 3669-1966 
( 7 ) WET % #fqR »Er 
•TOR TO q>H*i — 
IS : 3750-1966 
( 8) VTlTt iff TOOT— 

IS : 3751-1966 

( 9 ) Pm^-r (itpt- 

IS : 3794-1966 
, (l) ^rffFR 

IS : 2818-1969 
( 2 ) tfrror 
IS : 3790-1966 

( 1 ) ■JrrefPr ^Pfr — 

IS : 2818-1964 

(2) i?Pm «fit — 

IS : 3790-1966 

( 1 ) tr-forr tor % jfR- 
IS : 1943-1964 
(2) ift-feTOT TOR $ 

sffc — 

IS : 2566-1965 




Sec. 3('i'] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVlNA 29, 1894 


4 <$ 5 $ 


7 6 111 rrir/iT?=r-94 7 

28-11-1964 


77 Tft E7TT/C1TT-948 
28-11-1964 


78 tIB/t^-958 

28-11-1964 


79 Tf lEtr/rET-963 
28-1 1-1964 


so ?rl ipr/nvr-964 

28-11-1964 




1-12-1971 


1-121-971 


1-12-1971 


1-12-1971 


1-12-1971 


s ^TTftirtTOETTririt- 
IS : 2874-1964 
( 4 ) TOT % TOiq[ % 
sftt — 

IS : 2875-1964 
( 5 ) tt-ft-TT ^qrST~ 
IS . 3667—1964 
(e) fronpr fror 
(TT-feFr) tetst- 
IS : 3669-1966 

(7) TOT % ^r 

T5EEI TT TTT3T — 

IS ■' 3750—1966 

( 8 ) BTtI ift ^rfyr — 
IS : 3751-1966 

( 9 ) fTO?g^r (ijt- 
f 2 TT) ^ — 

IS : 3794-1966 


30-1 1-1972 ft 4TTOm Tlo fa°, (l) TrOTEl |%ET 

24-TOTTr I IS : 2818-1964 
( 2 ) t^nr ttt — 

IS : 3790-1966 

30-1 1-1972 „ „ (l) Tl-ftwTOET E 

Eft — 

IS : 2566-1965 
( 2) Tt-fTOT ET?T- 
IS : 3667-1966 


30-11-1972 STETE fTHT ftfo, ETO— 
%ztt, tlo f[o ttT, 24 TOETT 


(l) T-f^T TOH % 
tit — 

IS : 1943-1964 
( 2 ) sft fom 96 TTH 
% ttt — 

IS : 2566-1965 


30-n-i972 tot ^ ^ fror Pto.toI-- ( 1 ) ttctIt 

TTET, 24 TTTOr IS: 2818-1964 

( 2 ) |IWT Tit — 

IS : 3790-1966 

30-11-1972 TOET^sT fTOT fw TOT- (l) tMtot TOET E 
TEJT, 24— TTTTT I Eft— 

IS: 2566-1965 
(2) «TTft TEST % 
5 Ttt— 

IS: 3774*1904 



4654 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASV1NA 29, 1894 


[Tart II- 


81 ift nF/v^-975 
30 — 11—1964 

S2 ETTT /tT5?T— 977 

13-11-1964 

83 ^7/7^-981 
21-1 2-1964 

84 Tff/nT-1052 
1 5—4—1966 


85 *f1 iTJT/nT- 1 () 7 s 

31-5-1965 


86 77 / 751-1094 
8-6-1965 

87 *ft TTJT/trwr— 1095 
8-6-1965 

88 ^ 1 ^/ 1^-1120 
4-5-1965 

89 tfl qrM- 1121 
4-5-1965 

90 ift TR/i^T-1149 
29-9-1965 


16-1 2-1 971 15-1 2-1972 SIT 0 % o , Tt o tTStrfafom % 5^7, 

?to TtT, 7 TT 7 T 77 ) 71 , P irffo o o 

TTlfWSfR- (^ojfo) IS: 21-1959 

1-12-1971 30-1 1-1972 TrfcjTRT fTTT TPTPRft, 7>Tt4*fr TITSt- 

1 28, ftnr TIT, 72T7-2 77 Tt — 

IS: 220-1959 

1-1-1 972 31—1 2—1972 TlWTI f% o, of ft- ^fctrrqrr TT srf;T fipPtf 'rr’ 

777, FETTT^T («TF nrq) 
faPTT I IS: 1040—1960 

1 — 1 1-1 971 31-1 0-1 972 7 0 % fTrr tttt Tf fa o . 77 Afo-ti *T7T7 ^ 

iwn-fTTT I 7%7t (Tts JjfaT 

t fan — 

IS: 1929-1970 

16-10-1971 15-10-1972 NT £^717 T^RT, 65/q;, T 7 " 777 Tfal 

5fl o i\ ci Tt¥, fHT^r, /14fl $7<=ti faz 41% % 

%Vft 777 Tf 4fw, 

1 0 12,5 sffar 

ATT 15 77T^ 

■TITl — 

IS: 774-1964 

1 6-12-1 971 15-1 2-1 972 fa^faffa Ttfan faw fa 7T771 ^77T7 (7T7T 

7t7S7 TIT, twi) — 

(nf7771«) IS: 226-1969 

1 6-1 2-1 971 15-12-1972 „ „ -H-iTAI % 5717 (7TOK7 

fow) — 

IS: 1977-1969 

16-1 1-1 971 31-8-1972 WEST 57fa TRTftBFT fa°, 7 017 1 ^5717 (7T7T 

f77TOT7777 | f777 ) — 

IS: 226-1969 

1 6-1 1-1971 31-8-1972 „ „ ATT 4 1 2*717 (717177 

r. r L . \ 

1777 ) — 

IS: 1977-1969 

16-12-1971 1 5-12-1972 Tti fal57<' fa o, 21^7 71577177 TTTT 

A’fFw, (TfSRI ^ff TtR) (t) fa %I 7t faffal 

%®RT 

(1) 

Tfa (fan 

Tfanfa) 250/440 

(2) 

TIT (71 fa 
?ft fa5T 
ttt) far 


65O/llO0fa° TAT tr^fafa^ 



Src. 3(11', 1 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OC 10BEK 21, 1972/ASVlNA 29, 1894 


4<>55 


cft^T ?r«rr 


650/1100 


%K 

*ft o 

<«t 


tVi ! 


41%) 

250/440 

( 4) W 


^jfnnT 


ftrftRiT 

f hrt 

<o 



91 EfY rrTT/mr— 1182 
15-12-1965 


92 »ft 1^/fTsr-l 166 
23—12—1 965 


mm 7%r 
('ll' %r *ft 
#r «rr%) 

(s)wrft?r 
%)r(<ft ^ 

(«■) TT ift ffr %ftn 
?TT’!^Wrftf^!Tr — * 

( 6 ) 

JTTr?t (ferr 

#r Toft) 

( 7) W^R 

(fern I 250/440 

’tEt 4i%t) L. 

(8) ntvf 1 rfHfT 

S?ft, firfft 

TP'ft'ftsft 

%l%lHV%r) 

IS: 6 94 ( r flTTT 1 iftT 
2) — 1964 

'ft lit TlftjTf (mfr 
ftrspjft % mm, 
1100 4T?3 rPTT 4ft 

rw% hTt^f % 

f%% — 

IS : i554('flnr 1 )- 
1964 

1-1—1972 31-12-1972 ^St 5%tftPlfRr (fftiT) Tr° ftrftrfi: TTR ftur OTft 

f%°, mvm % fftft TO ^7- 

(ttstrift) tr ir^fftfwr ftk 

rft TR Tift 
rr-Jjftrfim 
IS : 398-1961 


1 6-1 2-1971 15-12-1972 Tt t RRR f%o 

4TftW, ftw 



4«5 6 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II 


1 2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


93 *fti”T/RET -12 37 
1 - 4-1966 


9 4 TttT 12 5 8 
5 - 5-1966 

95 *fl PTr/TT-l 273 
31 - 5-1966 

96 # tnT/rnT -127 5 

31 - 5-1966 

97 tni/lTH -134 2 
30 - 9-1966 


98 *ft ITTT/it ^-1359 
30 - 11-1966 


99 ^im/q?r-i 374 

28 - 12-1966 

100 /i ^-1463 

16 - 6-1967 


16 - 12-1971 15 - 12-1972 


1 - 11-1971 36 — 4—1972 


16 - 12-1971 15 - 6-1972 


16 - 12-1971 15 - 6-1972 


1 - 1-1972 31 - 12-1972 


1 - 12-1971 31 - 5-1972 


1 - 11-1971 31 - 10-1972 


16 - 11-1971 15 - 5-1972 


iflfw, Tfl-ET 


sftr ^T^ 5 T fo°, 

28 , *T 3 *T Ttar, 


PTR tf^TT SfTo %», 1 2/ 1 
EtjTT TtTF, Tl+M r WWK, 

'Rterarc I 


($w) 

43 , l[iw, Tlfr- 

?TWP? I 


4 M^ u lf fEW, 


trsjr ftPTT (?TFiTSr%?l) 

(tfeqT), 

faf^Tjfr tit, f^wpCr 
TWT*fr, foi-vfi 1 


Iwft ?E^TT$ ^ 

TTT 3 T fr^RT 

TI'HTK r ^fqfqq q 

^nr^r srr% %*k, 33 

f%T 0 5 Tfo qq? — 

IS : 692-1965 

IS: 2083-1962 


(Uo STo) 

fWR+fH‘+>lf, 127,tT%iFT 7[%T TTT qrrwffa 
'I.Rmi, : TTT T rf TT 3 T — 

IS : 1310-1958 
(sffETT ) rrf.j^ qq 
TT— 


WZ, ifTTE TRTTTt, ST — 


IS ; 1310-1958 
CT'Et ^ 5 pft TH^T far 
TT TTlfZTi (Hfafr, ^ 
fTFl) — 

IS : 1221-1957 
Ttftra &T qfijq ifpq-afj 

^r*n 

-IFEEt qi% %TPT, ipp- 
250/440 
650/1100 *rto 

Ttffr TTT 250/440 
fas’ — 

IS : 3035 (wpt 2 ) 
1965 

TTWfk far 


IS : 2129-1968 
'TPFT^zf dffal 

(l) Tt- 

facl , TT W*i #T? *ffc 

< 5 ? 3 faffaPT mh+i Tm 
250/440 TfcTffT #1, 
TTtT 1 ^- 
faffalH JfT% 



Sec. 3 (iO] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4657 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


101. Rt ntl/qT-1470 
7 - 7-1967 


102 . rV o^r/q^-1473 

13 - 7—1967 

103 . Rt ^^-1659 

14 - 11-1967 


250/440 650/ 

110 0 — 

IS : 3 0 3 5 ( WFT 2) — 

1965 

fKRT sffa MrmS4rf4TT 

mm tTfirfirlwr 

PT 65 0/1 100 Tk-irfr 

ffT, ’tVt *riir aptr 

25 0/440 — 

iSnOSSfTFTS) — 1967 

16-12-1971 15-1 2-1972 Tli pr^fES fro, ^§*1? ^ ift Ttfapf 

Tfw >j2ff 1 sfrr ^ sfV «eri^rsrr?r 
f 7 P-4f'Tfa'r( sr*PTT % cft-T- 
ftrfqrpcr ti | <H 4 ' I tn% 
— 

(1) 250 / 
440 ?T>7 650/1 100 
4>? #¥ — 

( 2 ) jfrl ^ffr, 

250/440 !fk 650/ 

1 100 m — 

IS : 3 0 3 5 ( ^TET 1 ) — 
1965 

(»y) STTR 

% Ti;goir TmEpnpfta 

nfirr, St stpt 
RFfafrro q^rfa- 
frrR ttmtSi tth T m m ■ — - 

( 1 ) 'PtT 250 / 

440 ifh 650/ 
1100 ir? — 

(2) ^,3^^250/ 
440 sftr 650/ 

1 100 sfter fr? — 

IS : 3035 (TO 2 ) 

-1965 


16-12-1971 


16 - 11-1971 


15-12-1972 rfa TET^TT^l TT 0 f?To, rrf^q- spT TPHtHIT fET 
TftSTO TTTf'TT, TOPUT ?T — 

WETTETT, %TfT I IS : 1310-1958 

15-1 1-1972 fc tST^ttpiT %f5rTOEr ytfrfTTT TOtnp' 

fk°, Tsfrr mw?, zrpr 1 (Trferf 

^TTTTrtT, %7TT I <OTT ^ TTf % fw^) 

IS : 1113-1965 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 , 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[Pa m II— 


4658 


1 2 3 4 5 6 


FfelWFS|$HF, ?Ti Fd l FEFTF, 5W— 


srro Pro, ftf ft^ fk 


?PFT — 

IS: 3131—1965 


TFT TTt % Pit 

% ftk-F — 

IS 10-1964 
FTFiftErk Fror-ftF kt 


IS : 2567-1963 
3 fV tTpsf Fft TO TF 3 TT 
IS: 561-1962 

lk »FfNT (SF W?f«T) 
%F 5 1 1 2 ifft 3 <TI ^ J| — 
IS : 3564-1966 


104 - kt rr*T/rr^_ 15 62 
14 - 11-1967 

105 - Ft 994 / 05 - 15 69 
24 - 11-1967 

106 - Ft OF /tTSf — 15 78 
1 - 12-1967 

107 . *ft 05 / 05 - 159 1 
21 - 12-1967 


108 . *ft tnr/n 5 -l 601 
1 - 1-1968 

109 . ift ^F/n 5- 1502 
1 - 1-1968 

110 . qF/(T 5-1604 

5 - 1-1968 

111 . F>C:f/T 5-1613 
9 - 1-1968 

112 . Ft 1 ^/^ 5-1642 
23 - 2-1968 

113 . Ft^F/fTF-l 649 
8 - 3-1968 


114 . Ft rrF/ 6 pf -17 00 
17 - 5-1968 

115 . Ft TTF/tTF -1719 
12 - 6-1968 

116 - Ft FF/itF -1788 
6 - 9-1968 

117 . tft TF/FF -1821 
25 - 10-1963 


16 - 11-1971 15 - 11-1972 

16 - 12-1971 15 - 12-1972 

1 - 12-1971 30 - 11-1972 

1 - 1-1972 31 - 12-1972 

1 - 1-1972 31 - 12-1972 

1 - 1-1972 31 - 12-1972 

1 - 12-1971 30 - 11-1972 

1 - 12-1971 30 - 11-1972 

1 - 11-1971 30 - 10-2972 

16 - 11-1971 15 - 11-1972 

16 - 12-1971 15 - 12-1972 

16 - 12-1971 15 - 12-1972 

1 - 10-1971 10 - 9-1972 

1-1 1-1971 31 - 10-1972 


Tfkt-ftF (Flo)fFo, 

1 5 ; 5 FFF 3 k TOWT- 3 0 

f 

fftF 'IktFT^fF FT° ftr°, 


TO 5 I 

5 F %fF 47 ?F, 14 /l, F’JTT 
fk, 7 T{ftl 3 l 4 , (pTFTFTT) 

fkfFFF tTO ^TFffF, tt 34 , 
FF 2 , FTFTTft, fkkt FTSF 

fPof, k frorr- 

27 


FSTF — 44 


ft%SF7 fafkl 3f? 0 , 

ITSFFT %T, FfFFfeFT, 
H'tflF'i<(FktFFF) 

FF^fFFEF, 141,F«[7Tfk, 

5 TftTFTT, ( 4 FlFTf ) 

TOTTpTt fFEF, 

TTs^r, Fo 

Ftnkt ftTFT 

FFTFT T# Flo Pt°, 

167, fFFTOF iftftT, 55- 
55T I 

kffFnfFF ftfftft 

TIT, FWT 5 (TPRFTF) 
F*|F FFFTfF 5 ° fpo, 3ft 0 

ffo kr, fiFfftfft 

ft nTFt tWX, 05 Ft 

ftrfkF, 1 7 - 35 ^ 55 ?- 3 ft o 
5T3T TtF, FRlf-4 

FfdtFPT 'FfttFITFF ^f?FT, 
FFFft-ftFft 75, ffFF, 
(Fo Fo) 


'■EFfd 5 T* 5 t 5 
IS : 3145-1960 

F 1 F # tfoft $ fat 
ft^ % fafkr — 

IS : 10-1964 

FTFTfwtF TFJFFk kf 
2 TF— 

IS ; 2567-1963 

FTFTfwtF 45 TTWfk 
kl 3 TF — 

IS'- 2567-1963 
TT^tT FF 55 % fat 5 ft 
FTtft ftfF ^FTTF it 
FfTFT — 

IS: 1786-1966 
Ft 3 ff it FFlft % FntPPF 

TT t % FTP4 — 

IS: 3284-1965 
1 8 , 5 t 57 FFTf FT 5 

*RpPK fcf — 

IS: 916-1965 
fitF, irratF — 

IS: 3470-1966 

Ft F 5 FF 55 F TTT- 
3T 

IS: 561-1962 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4659 


Sec. 3(:i)] 


1 2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


118. Rt tTTT/rrsf-18 30 
11-11-1968 


119. iff rrnyiTT-1840 
22-11-1968 

120. iff qT/(TT-1841 
22-11-1968 

121. iff tnT/<TT-1842 
25-11-1960 


122. iff iriT/(T~r- 1843 
27-11-1968 


123- Tf tt«T/rr?r- 1 8 5 3 
6-12-1968 

124. iff triiytr(T-i85 4 
6-12-1968 

125. iff 1*1/^-1877 
23-12-1968 


126. iff ^T/^T-1878 
27-12-1968 


16-1 1-1971 15-5-1972 5R7HT "fEf 3vTf ^ TRT 

snuff ^ ifter >Wr it % 

fir, f*mr im, ifrffaTff fnnr inf, o. 37 fro 

(^),^t-60 4To(o.5ffo qTo); 

0.55 f>F oi*T o ( 0 . 7 5 
°9T 0 ) ; 7 5 f% °4T o 
(l ?T° 97°); 1.1 

f% °?tt o ( 1 . 5^t °tt ° ) ; 
1 . 5 Bf> °4T 0(2 ?[r° 
'TTo)*ffT2.2 BFoTTo 
(3 floTTo) — 

IS: 325-1961 


1-12-1971 30-1 1-1972 f ff4$T, if o 2, TaftT TTT, 

fff 4TT, ^f-62 


1-12-1971 30-11-1972 


'FT 9 r-TuftT 

3T — 

IS: 2567-1963 

ff IT iff 
rf°r — 

IS: 562-1962 

1-12-1971 30-11-1972 ff trcr? W ffT qfff ffT’T iftTf 

fifrBnrfoT 4rPFff fir°, '<*’ £>jff % ffsrT inr, 

'F'Jf) H+k, (%m) 2 . 2f% °4T ° ( 3 oTT o 

IT 7,5 Bf°*T° ( 10 

$T° qjo) 

IS: 325-1961 

1-12-1971 30-1 1-1972 f ffTT, TTT2: 11° 2,TlffWK, HTF! ITFWfwtn^ 77 

ftt *m, ^f-62 irr- 

WT — 

IS: 1507-1961 

1-12-1971 30-11-1972 fff«FT, lf° 2,3‘tfr'TT'K, >^7 77 9 Fluffs 77T 

777, T^i-62 77 — 

IS: 1310-1958 

16-12-1971 15-12-1972 ^7 %BnFW %Z- fIkT 77 777f-?i! 77'ffFt, 

fn° , f77777 Tim, fair V yftr ‘fr’ — 
f^nTT TffgTTTT, (%"HT ) IS: 1040-1960 

16-12-197 1 15-12-1972 ifffe 7T2T Ij1%7 5TFF fff 7T imETT Iff ST 7T7T WX- 

2, fan w srfaffy, ffar 77fa 77 iffar 77 

4niwr-3 3 ifafW rutut — 

IS: 2645-1964 

1-1-1972 31-12-1972 ^ nfafTIT 7^, TFffTff ffa — 

fa°, 777777 77TJT 77777, IS: 3584-1966 
7%ff, (T°7°) 



[Part II— 


4660 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 , 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 

( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) ( 4 ) ( 5 ) (6) 


127 Tft TTtT/rT^r— 18 81 
30 - 12-1968 


128 it ^ 4/^—1902 
23 - 1-1969 

129 TtWTT -1936 
17 - 3-1969 


130 it iT*ry mr -2014 
9 - 7-1969 

131 Tft 2018 

1 1 - 7-1969 

132 Tft TTir/cr^r — 20 76 
22 - 9-1969 

133 it rrir/ffT -2084 
30 - 9-1964 


134 ITT/ITT -2097 
30 - 9-1969 


135 it tTE/TT -21 15 
26 - 10-1969 


it rTtr/rr^-21 16 
16 - 10-1969 


1-1-1972 31-12-1972 nr°ito #TT wi, it°ito fiifr q f T TTTT TT'Jf TTTf 

TU (T 0 T 0 ) % fr* T6T f%T FTTT 

wrfipFFT sfrr ^tet 
T t tit teT rpjfrfTtnT 
TEW — 

IS: 398-1961 

1-12-1971 30-1 1-1972 TF#t fETET, 15/7 *FJ*T- it 1 ^ it TTTTT — 

tit, TEtmr (pirwi) IS: 561-1962 

1-1-1972 31-12-1972 rrfTTT 5^4 H (JTTo ) TIT stft ifott % fair 

fro, TiftTpr ETEEEft wmnsjT % — 

TTTTT, rrfTt^TT fTTT IS: 10-1964 
(%tt) 

1-12-1971 30-1 1-1972 ^itT%, 'TTT To 2 TSftTHR it it it TH fW^ftT 

rrr o it o itr, itEmr ft tttitt — 

Tirf-62 IS: 565-1961 

1-12-1971 30-1 1-1972 TT TfaTEE, 14/1TTTT 7 FT, Eff^T TT TIT 6 ON TT 

Titsrmr ($ttftt) ar — 

IS: 1310-1958 

1-1 1-1971 31-10-1972 WJTT 'EWjfTT fTET, TIT TWftTTTTnty TT- 

To TT ^ — 

itTTit f^ETT (tTo To ) IS: 1507-1966 
1-1-1972 31-12-1972 fWTI rnry %fi- Ef^ipr TT rEf 

TEE, To TTo fro, jrETT 5T— 

TTtT Ttf, TW; iiit, IS: 1307-1958 
5FT^ — 5 8 

16-12-1971 15-12-1972 ^itT jEEjtr, TfiTTT-Ti- ETi t*T^f#pFPT TEW 

TTT T^ v . % Erftr TifsTlir ?fE it wk 

fTTT #TT, (’JofTTcT ) TEW — 

IS : 398-1961 

16-10-1971 15-4-1972 iilWlTT/ Try it Tk^JTTTTfT 

5 st^loi fr o , TTTTTWT, frETT Tlit TET < Igfl 

TtiEW (TWT TP?!) TETfFFI 

ifci — iritfi^tit- 

IS : 774-1964 

16-10-1971 15-10-1972 „ TTTFT iiRit ETEET 

(Ttit figt) 

( 1 ) EETT^t it 

( 2) ETTI^t Wj; it 
$3# 1 srnt sftr it# 
400 frit girt tt#- 

IS: 2556 (TFT 2) — 
1967 


136 


16 - 10-1971 15 - 10-1972 



Sec. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDTA: OCTOBER 21* 1972/ASVINA 29, 1S94 


4661 


1 


2 


3 


4 


6 


( 3 ) ^'T 464 

630 foift, 580 finft 

ott 680 fRiflr 

4i , ?n 

(4) 4 1 Ml sf^T 

grftflT T*|% 630 

400 f*nfV 
580 f^nfr 440 fcnft 
Wm — 

IS: 2556-(?mr 3 )- 
1967 

( 5 ) mm 'ft3TTT 
TTW tfclT 450.X 300 
fipflr; 550 X 400faift 
tfk 630 X 450 f*nft 
wil^r 

(e) 400 x 400 fMft 
TftaiT 'fte 
JTT% TTUT ^flFT — 

( 7 ) mt\ tfirft % 

9T4 WUTT 

IS: 2556 (WT 4) — 
1967 

4T7 ??T£3T — 

400 X 250,150 fimt 

IS: 2556 (ITT 1 ! 5) — 
1967 

( 9 ) T^rrftTTT 

'fte <11 '"fi ) T2TTT >JRT 

(10) sn^r, *ftd 
smt 340 ftnfr ott 3 !-, 

410 %fr ?ipWT, 265 

Mt — 

IS:— 255 g ( wR 6 ) 1967 



[Paju* II — 



the GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ AS VINA 29, 1894 



( 1 1 ) ^ "rift 

■H H A ift MM ft 

ftgft (toto ftrorr 
^nft) ijr fr 
^ qrftr Bmft t 
'ft (T=n?T 
"ft iHtft M ift ) 

IS: 2556 (VTFT 8) — 
1967 

( 12 ) ftr foie — 
IS: 2556 (TO 9) — 
1967 


137 ft T^/^ -2121 
24-10-1969 


1_1 1—1971 31-10-1972 fftWT f*r° 97- ( l) "Flft ftft 

ft?, mftTnr SFTST-3 ftftft, ftr 

cTPTq> fsftftlT ( 6 % 
39 fftft) ftr 
■25: ftft fcr (6 %■ 

24 fftft «mi Wt) — 
IS: 1363-1967 

( 2 ) ftopdr ftr *ni 

qfftpdT 5?!% : ftft 
sttspt, fsarfftrt 
ftx flFFfT (6 

it 39 fftft ®imr *nft) 

(t^tt jrft^r 0 ! ) 

IS: 1364-1967 

( 3) «rfann; ftraffti 

ftr ?tNrr 
'7'fft aiji mPid Hi '< 
4T# ( wrrar 1 . 6 

% 20-fa ft cpp) — 
IS : 1365-1968 

( 4) «tiniK #J1 s$HT 
flRTO ?’^(®ITTB' 1 . 6 

% 20 faft — 
IS: 1366-1968 

( 5 ) •m^i *fT^ 
*ffa faftrft (**mr 6 
^ 39 faft) ftr 
ft+)<, 6 

% 24 faft) — 

IS : 2585-1968 




THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


S--C. 3(ii) j 


4663 


(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) 


( 6 ) 


138 Bt ir^/^-2128 
28-10-1969 

139 tnr/trw-2144 
19-11-1969 


140 tTTr/^-2147 

26-11-1969 


141 Bt TTrr/nTT-2150 
26-11-1969 

142 ^^-2152 
28-11-1969 

143 ftt tTR/tJB-2160 
4-12-1969 


144 Bt OB/rrB-2166 
8-12-1969 

145 tTTT/rr^r— 216 7 
8-12-1969 


146 Bt iTB/qW-2174 
12-12-1969 

147 11^/^-217 5 
16-12-1969 


( 6 ) BtB BW* (on 
6 ft *£0 24) — 

IS: 2609-1964 


1-1-1972 

1-12-1971 

1-12-1971 

16-12-1971 

1-12-1971 

1-12-1971 

16 - 12-1971 

16 - 12-1971 

16-12-1971 

16-12-1971 


31-12-1972 1- BI OB Bt ?JBB TT3TT — 

flT, fBJBT, ?TBTT IS: 561-1962 

31-5-1972 Btc 51TT° BTBB Ol^fTI BBJ $ftr Bftt % BB 
(^frm) 51T 0 fB°, ilfll'O 9WT 7. 5 fftftl 

TBTTt tBft 'W'tM tf\T 100 foot BT?[Bt 

% B^fto BfftBror (q^nsr) % — 

IS : 1729-1964 


30-11-1972 BtSBOT sftrfBJBTTB, 49- fttB TBt ftiq fttBT, 

T^TOT, K 0.75 fWT ft 2.2 

(fTBTBT) fo B1 V J>Kt % 

TUFT Bl% — 

IS: 325 — 1961 


15 - 12-1972 


30-1 1-1972 


30-11-1972 


TBO %BB BlOfltVM, 

4 B I (BTR 

b^b) 

lf*BB eft 7, BTBT 

BB BB, BH+tH-1 2 


Blft OBTlftPiqH sftr it 
Bt tht *ftr BIBB — 
IS : 398-1961 

BTB B?t ^feff ^ ftfTT BTB 

% fftfen — 

IS: 10-1964 


iwl BBTB 1 JB, fftBB *fBBB 1 8 -fttBT BBTlf Bfft 
BIBB ^TCTBIITB, TBlftBB BoW-K fftn — 

BIBB fft?B M 1 J 1 BH mi, IS : 916—1966 
BRf -31 


31-3-1973 


15-12-1972 


15-12-1972 


fft TflfOT B IB T6 O'B tcTlB 
qt 0 fft 0 , 1FPBT at^T, fBBT 
bIbTB (fto BBTB) 

STIo ffto, 
sibs 1 sbR^bB nl^ 
B=> OB-26, OB— 36 *fto 
T^B-3 7, BTBBT BBftflft, 
BTBBT 

o4b TTD^ BRftt, 34 TT^ ; 
fftBBT ft*, BBBBT- 6 


sqTBTt % fBO ^BTTB ^ 

f*M i tft T B 5 T 

IS: 1990-1962 

PlBBt BTBfftfftBB % 

* »0 

BBB; OBBlffttljir — 
IS : 21-1959 


BIB «lft ftfsBf % fBTT 
tlTB % fftifjo — 

IS : 10-1964 


15 - 12-1972 


ijBtBT ?BBjtB, BlfBqrs- 
4 c. ell* ft* B^T % BBtl, 
M I fio *, fWf ft v, | 
(7JBTTB) 


( 1 ) 'TBjfofftOB BBB1 
BfBT % BlBBlf BIB 
'ft BV ftt ftftfB %BB, 
fBBT BftB Blft, 

BIT 250/440 *ftr 
650/1 100 BIOS ft* 
%— 


LPart II — 


4664 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


(1) (2) (3) (4) 


( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


148 CHT/I7T-2183 

31-12-1969 


149 tft rnr/(^T-2191 

31—12—1969 

150 Tft XTTr/tT^r— 2202 

8-1-1970 


151 fft tr*r/n[?T-2242 

9— 2-1970 

152 tfV 0^1/^-2340 

8-6-1970 


1-1-1972 31-12-1972 


1-1-1972 31-12-1972 


1-12-1971 30-11-1972 


1-12-1971 30-11-1972 


15- 6-1972 


fTTHT RTTFT RRTRftRR, 185, 


'Jtlcfft '■OR fW?R 5 rfrlV>M, 

5 2 / 9, %RFT 8^ TtT, 
Vt«PrfT-H 

RRF Rf? fR?R ftr°, *JR- 

<1 1 4 TtlT TITS’ , TTTTRTrr, 

oftiTTr 2 4 — rtrri 

ft RRT *i r <4 0 T ° t%o aiin' R- 

c\ 

ftRT, P-4 4 1 J'l'-Pl ("To 

RRTTT ) 

ft ftifrr Rfeft (R5R- 

rttr) Pr°, ftrz RfcrR 

^/RR ^TRRTR, TRRTR 
(R0R0) 


( 2 ) STRRT 

cTRT % RFWf Rl% 
"ft Tt Rt fTftlR ?flT 
Rt Tt tft g>r ri%, 
ST^ft W\r, 2 5 0/440 
Rt o ITR % — 

( 3) irpjjftrftirJT riztt 
TFT ft ft nt TtfycT 
wtr Rt ®ft nt nrFr rtr 
%4H , 5?^ RRS, 2 50 / 
44 0 TTo TT — 

( 4 ) iT,.Trfrrf^nTr 

tft ft sft nt uftn 

TFT %' 4 'T, RPI Tt 4 
65 0 / lOORto — 
IS: 694 (FIR 1 *ftT 
2)— 1964 

O^nJnfRRR TFFFt RPR 

rtjr? fr'ftfmMFr 
TtftFr, Sr nftn rrrt 
Sr Tffci, 

nffaftm %rpt, ^pr- 
?ft Tk rift 55ft 
TtT— 250/440 qtr 
650/1100 RtOR 

tfz — 

IS: 3035 (WT 2)- 
1965 

RTR =fft ^feft % Prf ,973 
% ftftR — 

IS. 10-1964 

3PT far RTTS' % RT 3JZ 

% Rft — 

IS: 4856-1968 
SR % T7R ^T RR % 

afft — 

IS: 4856-1968 

RJTT RTtRTR EZtRRRT 
ITER ‘r’ sfrc 'trir' 
%RR lOOfRift, 150 
ftrrft, 200fRTft, 230 
ftrtfr, 250 fRift *fft 
300 ftnft rttr, — 
IS: 651-1965 


16-12-1970 



Sec. 3(>i)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 4665 


(l) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) 


153 

fft nTT/rT^-2377 
28- 7-1970 

16-12-1971 

15-12-1972 

OtOjTO H 

sfHOT, Oft^TOO (%TF) 

* 

no aft offtoft aft of$rot 
IS : 10-1964 

1 54 

Tt/nT/tT7=r-241 1 
28-9-1970 

16-9-1971 

15-9-1 972 

o ?TF nokkrTt TJfo, TOP- 
TO Tpf’JT, fmT 24-OT- 

on 

in nrm (to foo- 
foro) — 

IS : ^3564—1966 

155 

*ft nrr / tt— 242 7 
9-10-1970 

1-11-1971 

15-12-1972 

oofto fnfbr, nfroro-OT- 
n? tYo, fom noft no, 
fw=rf nfwr, fnn #rr 

nqforO'OO TlTTt 0T% 
omftoro Ttfoo ok 
>ft of oft ofto nft 
■^OH, TTlkt, aft < 
sftr 05ft aftr nrt, 

250/440 OW 0 ? — 
IS : 1596-1962 

156 

OT /ITT- 2435 

27-10- 1970 

1-11-1971 

31-10-1972 

fotfom 14 / 1 , 

fenr o«jtt fir, Tftomo 
(form) 

oft? TT TO — 

IS : 5757-1970 

157 

oft orr/ip-24$9 
30-10-1970 

1-11-1971 

15-7-1972 

noftT ftoftnonT no fro, 
nsro or?, mo m, 

HjHI ^HOiO (Oo -H4 ) 

oft oro ottot — 
IS : 564-1962 

158 

ftt Oo/o=T-244 0 
30-10-1970 

1-11-1971 

15- 7-1972 

f) 77 

oftp n nonfto 

TO — 

IS : 1310-1958 

159 

*ft O0/O0-2441 
30-10-1970 

1-11-1971 

15-7-1972 

V J> 

oft tfft oft n nonfto ftar 

TO — 

IS •• 633-1956 

160 

oO/<of-2443 

30-10-1970 

1-11-1971 

31-10-1972 

oftwr Toro, on ofcT not- 
skft otoot, 

24— 9 TOOT 

20 oftTT onfoift non 
% fo-^? oft-2 (no 
0?)— 

IS : 2552-1963 

161 

ftt 00/1^-2447 
4-11-1970 

16-11-1971 

15-1 1-1972 

no TTWPtO, 8 2, OTo oftt- 

^ r c| ^ r - 1 8 

nrnfto — 

IS : 2802-1966 

162 

ftt OO/0/O— 245 1 
6-1 1-1970 

16-11-1971 

15-11-1972 

fft to nr to onfro m 
no fro , ootoFTt nf 
frr, TlOMT-OTTO-49 

V) 

^ 4m mr on 
nt fans — 

IS : 1 0 03 ( OTO 1 ) 1968 

163 

oft or/<t^-245 2 
6-11-1970 

16-1 1-1971 

15-11-1972 

1 1 17 

noot % own, foro- 
faroft ftk Tioooin 
% okar — 

IS : 4021-1967 

164 

ftt OO/^T— 2453 
6-11-1970 

16-11-1971 

1 5 — 1 1— 1 9 72 9, 

yvfyrTT— 1 7 

no aft ftfftoft % ffto gio 
%■ frfro — 

IS : 10-1964 


4666 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Past II— 


( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) ( 4 ) ( 5 ) ( 6 ) 


165 bY tTTT/iTsr-2455 16-11-1971 15-5-1972 FTOI I $4 T# ( tfSTT ) 1 ) FFT'lY 

12-11-1970 1 6/ 1 0; TTfe <ft *Y ift TtfecT 

Pic^fY r + H 4 , f^RT Wh TTfe, 

'T(T- 2 5 0/ 44 0 
650/1 ioo 

(2) Cr^jrfl-ftrqTT niwf 

^T% 'fY aft TfT frfKRT 
*fi ^ "f , ?arfer <r%, 

wit 7 — 2 5 0/ 
440 tYt 650/1 100 
4T. 

IS: 694 (viFT 2 )- 

1964 


166 

iff iTtT/tpf-24 5 6 

16-11-1971 

15-11-1972 

T FfdTl', fwraT- 

^ ;ft FFTTr (^Tfercr 


12-11-1970 



JTE, f^FTTTST (WIo To ) 

tYt ^rcfedr) — 






IS: 1165-1967 

167 

tft tnT/CT?r-2459 

1-12-1970 

30-11-1972 

feHPI 5^4 3 6/1/1,^61^ 

20 -feteT tt% 


13-9-1970 



ifTTr TYs, TFFPtIT— 1 1 

SFTFT fe fB 






4Y, (ffeFT^FcIT’lf )- 






IS: 2552-1970 

168 

ift tnr/(T5r-24 61 

1-12-1971 

30-11-1972 

TtnYinr trYtsfeH 

FSY T7T TT ?4 — 


30-11-1970 



Pm YYs, Ph< Bof 

IS; 4175-1967 

169 

ift TTT/^-2462 

1-12-1971 

30-11-1972 

T4 T* ^P'4h- 6 ffe' 

0 , T7J I-USK ^ *FT T 


30-11-1970 



ffeTFT TlfeYYY, fanfeY 

W "Mil — 





(pif) 

IS : 4193-1967 

170 

^/^-2463 

1-12-1971 

31-3-1973 


fwpt % fenj $*r tt^r- 


30-11-1970 



f*-f rNi ifl-5"fi*l JJpFT'T ffe 0 , 

IS. 1547-1968 





'FIT tfr, ( J fT- 






tft) 


171 

ift TT^/rr^r-2464 

1-12-1971 

30-11-1972 

■nffe^r Tlffer ffew (tt 0 ) 

TfaFFlFfl % ffeTT af p>«iT 


30-11-1970 



fen, 13, ■^FTt6l<’FT ^T, 






3Flfem 5 5, ^TToft 

m — 





^FSfeYF ttt, wwr -44 

IS: 1038-1968 

172 

# q/TT/q/T— 2 47 3 

1-12-1971 

30-11-1972 

'Ntid FF7T , FfTToFf 

Ti Y i^^feYferriT tew 


l 3-12-1970 



TTT *T$FiT, Twf-TFHT Tt3, 

TYt ttbY tTg- ^TX 





fam, ap^f-7 9 

^m4‘ — 






IS: 398-1961 

173 

HY rrir/rr^-2475 

1-12-1971 

31-3-1973 

•ilil 5TRP^T ^ f^T o } 

^-44ifer TfFFit % 


3-12-1970 



1 

ffeir TTSTtferT? 






Ife^fr'ifFTFr ^ 1 






IS: 647-1970 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: GOOBER 21, 1972/ASV'INA 29 , lay/) 


4667 


Sec. 3(ii) J 


(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) 


( 6 ) 


174 ^ irir/lT5r~2482 

10-12-1970 


1 o — 1 2 — 19 71 15-1 2-1972 fcfrfwi VI IvT Wl'ft rfftotiJT 

STo fao 'EEtV % WT 100 faflt 

(%iEr) srr^r — 

IS: 651-1965 


175 tft tTtr/tr^r-24 8 5 
23-12-1970 


176 fft tTTT/liET-249 6 
29-12-1970 


1 — 1—197 2 is-4-1972 rf^ trnrrfatfhT TT ETTO^IT 

ftpTEHT , 6/30 3, frTWTfcT- — 

iJE, fnr, iram-81 IS: 2567-1963 

1-1-1972 31-12-1972 UTETTVwmTTT ^^F4, 13/6 1 2 . 5 ?PTT$ 

fe^fT-ETA SVlf TT EEE ETtft 

irrfjiTraT? ^r) <rt£ 

Et qvrer El zhn\- 
IS: 774-1964 


[tfo ?f>o ITTfo ®lo : 13:12] 


S. O. 3313.— 'In pursuance of sub-rule (1) of rule 4 of the Indian Standards Inst tut on (Cert ficat on Marks) Rules, J955 the 
Indian Standard) Inst tution hereby not fi.es that the Standard Mark(s) , des : pn (s) of wh ch together w ll, ti e vcital descr pt enjf 
the design(s) and ‘he title(s) of the relevent Ind an Standard(s) /are given n the Schedule hereto rnnexed,/ have been specified. 

These Standard Mark(s) for the purpose of Ind an Standards Inst tut'on (Cert fleat on Marks) Act, 1953 and the 
Rules and Rogulat ons framed there under, shall come into force w th effect from the dates shown aga mt each : 

The Schedule 


SI. Dn : ta of th: ProlacGCDsi of Pro luct No. ani Title of the Verbal descr pt on of the Date ofEffect 

No. Standard Mark 4 Relevant Indian Design of the Standard 

Standard Mark 


CD CD 


C3) 


C4) 


C5> 


C6) 



Blackheart malleable iron IS : 2108-1952 Specifi- The monogram of the Ind an 16 July 1972 
castings cation for balckbeart Standards Inst tut on, con- 

nalleable ironca-t ng s.st ng of letters ‘ISI’drawn 
in the exact style and 
relit ve proport ons as 
indicated in col. No. (2), 
the number des'gnat on of 
the Indian Standard being 
superser bed on the top of 
9 de of the monogram as 
indicated in the design. 


Sodium b'carbonate 



IS : 2124-1962 Specifi- 
cation for sodium 
bicaroonate. 


The monogram of the Ind'an 1 August 1972 
Standards Inst tution, 
cons sting of letters ‘ SI’ 
drawn in the exact style and 
relit ve proportions as 
indicated in Col. (2), the 
number des 1 gnation of the 
Indian Standard being 
superscribed on the top 
side of the monogram as 
indicated in the design. 


[No.C.MD./i3t[6 




466S 


THE G AZE TTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II — 


tr?T° *flo '13 l 3. — TRT W1 TT *tWtftET TTOlftT TRT TPTT faTT 1 9 5 5 % faTT 4 % ( 1 ) 

% VfiJBR' '•TTC^tT BTBT ifETT Jf STftJljfatT faTT TRTT ft fa fa?f TW'fi fa 7 ? fanT^'T ?At 41 1 fat'd" fa?T' , i 
TTTTT% I 

^TTlffa TTTT IFTT (MBPJM fa 7 ?) TfafWT, 1 9 5 2 5fVT T*fa Wlffa Pmf % fafw T? RFTT fa 7 ? srfap % TT*)" T* 
faf«Pft *T OT>| ?T ^JrnriTT : 


^PT HHT fa*? 4it TITO HTT 'I'M!'! TT Tt^TTI WTTfa TFRI TRlffa TRT fa*? TFT ?I^ fafat 
#WT fa-iTTH Tt HWT *ffT Tfafa fa jIIlH TT i?M»f7 TH" 

Pwji 


1 . 


2. 



a^T^lt T«I "ftftvf !^ft IS:2108*-1962 MICrft-H TPTT TTPTT *PT 163£FT^1972 

«r^r jfaffaTT farJi 'ISr 

fafafe" wpx grfa ft ( 2 ) ir 

fa«ai{ tfaft tffa (EJTRI 
R #tr farr w ft 
$rt faum »m ft tt 
RTfnrw % 3 ?k qft *rfa 
»rreffa tew iff 
ft < 

Ttf%TO«m[Tnrt^ IS:2124-19G2TtfaqTT Tl Ofal W TT 1 tFTTT 1972 

faftr% TiTtuTT faiiJf 'ISI' 

W ftfa ft TflTT (2) $ 
fallf vW" *fk W^TTIT 
*r finr fan tot | *ftr 

$RT fa<9i9[ W I 37T 
TWHITT % 3NT iffa 
TKnk RFW IOTI *?r 

?tot tftgt ft 1 


[ifalT tfto tfto IJTo 13:9] 


Now Delhi, 19th September 1973 

S. 0. 1314. —Certification Marks Licences details cT which are mention^ in the ichedul* given hemftej Int Iijki’ 
or their ronewale deferred : 


The Sghedulb 


SI. Licence No. & Name & Address of the Licencee Article/Proccss and the S.O. Number 
No. Date of Issue relevant IS : Designation Date of the 

Gazette Notifying 
Grant of Licence 

Remarks 



1. CM/L-1200 Hindustan National Glass Mfg. Glass milk bottles — IS 11392- S.O. 525 doled Lsptid aftci 30 - 6 - 1 ^^., 
19-1-19A6 Co, Ltd., Bahadurgarh, Dlstt. 1967. 19*2-1966. 

Rohtak (Haryana) 



sac, 3(il) J 


THE GAZETTB OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


2. GM/L-1242. Plava Chemicals, 3 C Nelson Endrinemulsifiableconcen- S.O. 1551 dated Deferred after 31-7-1S72 

_ . r ^ a / _ ! _t » r T\ j Trt n n . r. , , 


14-4-1966 

3. CM/L-1304 
28-7-1966 


Manicka Mudaliar Road, 
AminjiKarai Madras 29 
Do, 


trates — IS : 1310-1958 


28-5-1966 


BHC dusting powders — IS: S. 0 . 2600 dated Deferred after 31-7-1972 
561-1962 27-8-1966 


4- CM/L-1598 Murarka Engineering Works, Spring leaves and leaf springs S.O. 284 dated Renewal was deferred after 


27-12-1967 


28/37 IndustrialArea, Najaf- 
garh Road, New Delhi 15 


for automobile suspension - 
IS : 1135-1966 


20-1-1968 15-8-1971 ; thelicer.ee now 

stands lapsed after 
that date. 


5. CM/L-1873 Joy Ice Cream (Bangalore) Icecream — 18:2802-1964 S.O. 370 dated Deferred after 30-6-1972 

23-12-1968 Pvt. Ltd, Main Road, Whitefield, 25-1-1969 

Bangalore Distt. 

6. CM/L-1968] Harbans Lai Malhotra & Sons Hacksaw blades, hand operated S. O. 2551 Deferred after 30-4-1972 

13-5-1969 Pvt, Ltd, 20 Barrackpore — • and heavy power operated — dated 28-6-1969 

Trunk Road, Balgharia, IS : 2594-1963 
24 Parganas. 

7. CM/L-2347 Saurashtralron Foundry & Steel 1 8-litre square tins — IS :9i6- S. O. 3429 dated Lapsed after 30-6-1972 

19-6-1970 Works Pvt Ltd, Bunder Road, 1966 24-10-1970 

Bhavnagar (Guj) 

8. CM/L-2355 Aluminium Udyog, 15 Daspara Extruded aluminium butt S. O. 3429dated Defeircd after 15-7-1972 

j 30-6-1970 Road, Calcutta 4 hinges — IS : 205-1966 24-10-1970 

9. CM/L-2369] Khandesh Pesticides Pvt. Ltd, DDT water dispersible powder S.O. 2109 Deferred aftei 15-7-1972 

16-7-1970 Dharangaon, Distt Jalgaon , concentrates — 18:565-1961 dated 29-5-1971 

W. Rly.J 


10. MC/L-2469 
30-11-1970 


Goyal Industrial Corpn, 14/5 Wooden flush door shutters S.O. 3593 


Renewal was deferred aftei 


Mathura Road, Faridabad (solid core type), with ply- dated 2-10-1971 31-5-1972, ihelicercr row 


(Haryana) 


wood face panels — IS 
2202 (Part I)— 1966 


stands lapsed after that 
date. 


it. CM/L-2585 Saran MetalSales Agency, 36/36 Tea-chest metal fittings — IS: S.O. 2405 dated lapsed after 15-3-1972 


10-3-1971 Harachand Mukherjee Lane, 10-1970 
Howrah (W. Bengal ) 


19-6-1971 


12. CM/L-2596 The Bengal United Co. Pvt. Ltd, Fire hydrant — 18:908-1965 S.O. 2405 dated Deferred after 15-3-1972 


17-3-1971 Brojonath Lahiri Lane, 
P.O. Santragachi, Howrah. 


19-6-1971 


13. CM/L-2684 MulkhRaj Madhusudan Lai Tea-chest battens- -IS :io- S.O. 5027 dated Renewal was deferred after 

18-5-1971 Malhotra, E-8, IndustrialArea, 1970 6-11-1971 15-5-1972, the licence, 

Yamuna Nagar.Distt Ambala now stands lapsed after 

(Haryana) that date. 

14. CM/L-2704 Sumangal Chemicals, 3-B, K.K. DDT water dispersible powder S.O. 3594 dated Deferred after 30-6-1972 

24-6-1971! Shah IndustrialEstate, Minor concentrates — 18:565-1961 2-10-1971 

Road, Palgar, Distt, Thana. 

15. CM/L-2705 • Sumangal Chemicals, 3-B, K. K. BHC water dispersible powder S.O. 3594 dated Deferred after 30-6-1972 

24-6-1971 Shah Industrial Estate, Minor concentrates — IS : 562 — 2-10-1971 

Road, Palghar, Distt. Thana. 1962 

- [ No _ C.M.D./13 :i4} 

*Tf 19 fatTWR, 1972 

o 331 4. — for TRPJFT | w stot 

ddRf ' fl *F7 fen W t : — 


hirsts sw wi flk t^r sft mj 






# fdfsT 


1 1^-1200 



525 

30 - 6-1972 

19-1-1966 

0^0 fa o, 3^- 
IT?, faeTT (^ft- 

UFIT) 1 

IS : 1392-1967 

forfa? 19-2-1966 

% WR 1 



2 

*fr tfJT/^-1242 

tot ^Prto, 3 rfl, 

RfafR TOTTFffa ifa TO,— 

RTTVt 1551 

31-7-1972 


14-4-1966 

■HlPl't! <j6lfa6 < Tfa, 

IS : 1310-1958 

fa^faf 28-5-1966 

wr fsrfarcri 



TORT, TORT-29 




3 

iff CrtT/TO-l 304 

„ „ sfT tRT Rf ?£TO TO??T- 

faT^ 2600 : 

31-7-1972 


28-7-1966 


IS : 561-1962 

fa^far 27-8-1960 

% RTfacT 1 

4 

TfV C«T/TOr-1598 

1JTRTO ^sftfrofTO 

(l) FTTO RTfTOT % 

RR Rt 284 

W ^TTfOflT^r 


27-12-1967 

29/37 SsrfajiRr RpRTT, 

fTOl*-*H % fafa TrffaR 

fanfar 20 - 1-1968 

qsffarfTJT 15- 



TOTTOR Tfa, 6 f faTOt- 1 5 

1 Wfa^t sffa jpTfjft 


8-1971 




<fa TfaRt — 


WfaTrf fai4l 




IS : 1135-1966 


^TT «TT 3R 






fafar tr 






T^^rpTr ^ i 

5 

tfT n?r/iT^_i873 

■srfa wnRRftR (TOsftr) 

TOWfaR — 

far ?fr 370 frorfa 

30-6-1972 


23-12-1968 

5TT 0 faf °, far TR, %^VSZ 

IS : 2802-1964 

25-1-1969 

sfTT i^Pia 1 



itm, sfrofft, farar i 




0 

# TO/n;?r-l968 

(fTOTOTFT TO^T RR 

^ ^Tfarer tot *rrft rfr tort 2551 faro* 

30-4-1972 


13-5-1969 

to sit o fa 0 , 20 , ttro 

RTfro Rfar tort «fa 

28-6-1969 

% 9TK Rtfa'd' 1 



53 : ^TOfa, sfsretfaHT, 

snrt 





24-TTTOT 1 

IS : 2594-1963 



7 

TTt T-2347 

TffaR? 'rroft r<r 

1 R-RfaT TOR Rlfa TO?- 

faTTft 3429 

30 -6— 1972 


19-6-1970 

^€l?r rr! m ° far 0 , 

TOT Sfa — 

faHiT 24-10-1970 

ln?^i 



TOR *<fa, TOTOTO, 

IS : 926-1966 





iw^) 





8 fit 2 3 5 5 ir^frfWT ^ftT, 15, TTF^fapTW SR 4^'? — W ’ft 3-129 15-7-1972 

30-6-1970 TmfaT ftf, ^PWTT-4 18:205-1906 fadfal 24-10-1970 % *TR I 


9 Tft Tn^l^— 2369 WT47T ’fa€faT$3T?r 5TT o #> Yt 31" ^ -l <-( --n '-Tt << rpif irq- 2109 15—7—1972 

16- 7-1970 fwo, SPRJTfa, faTMT — fa6T*6 29-5-197 1 % TO Wfad 1 

(fro ^r#) IS: 565-1961 

10 2469 5tTO -+. y TOT '-^tlC^T TO TORT % TO -"it 3593 VITO -I’ft'fTOT 

30— 1. 1— 1 97 0 14/15, Tfa, TOTTO 4RR (star JTSq- fadfal 2-10-1971 31-5-1972 

9 vCfaRR (^fTOFlT) VPT ^T$r) — RTfacT 9 R 

IS : 2202(*TFT l) — fa^TT TOT «TT 

1966 TO faf«T 

^T^TOlTRfa I 

11 Tit TOr/T^— 2 5 8 5 TPR T^TOTft, 36/ TOT 'HcFTT % fat 6 5ft 2405faTO5 15—3—1972 

10—3—1971 36, TOf jf f ^FT, STf^ % fatfaif — 19-6—1971 % SIR I 

$TTOT( To tort) I IS: 10-1970 

12 <tjt/to- 2 5 96 fa TORT ’JTOplTr ^ ° SIT o TOT Wfa 't £T^ u <i — 1^5^ 2405 ' 13-3-1972 

l7 _ 3-1971 far^TOTTOT^n^^FT, IS : 908-1905 faFTfar 19-6-1971 % WTO TOfarcT I 

STTOTT TOTMlT^t, 

^ttot i 



B 7 i 


Sf.c. 3(ii > j 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4671 


13 5F/^-2684 

13-5-1972 


W?T TFT ^feff % C[?T ?ft 5027 

5-8, ^?T5T '^rrffy qfe &fi— 6-11-1971 

qfTTr, TwrTnT, frrr IS: 10-1970 

*TRT?TT (fWT'TT) 


15-5-1972 
% SIP? ps#TcT 
ferr ttt 

NI 4IT TT 

ftrfa ^ TRl 

Till I 


14 lfr^T/lCT-2704 
24-6-1971 


%Pttw, a-sft, 
%o%o?ff^T5 T 
titIt % 
f3P?1T *TTHT I 


ft £t 4mf^TTfflT TTr*ft 3594 30-6-1972 

IS: 565-1961 feTOFT 2-10-1 971 %^KPTpTTl 


15 BY trtr/iTtT-2705 
24-6-1971 


Tt ^ BY Tt 3594 30-6-1972 

fenrr 2-10-1971 % tit pifei i 

IS : 562-1962 


[tFstt «Yo triro ito i3 ; 14] 


New Delhi, the 21 September 1972 

3. O. 3315. —In pursuance of sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 5 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certifiation Marks 
egulations, 1955, as amended from time to time, it is, hereby, notified that the Indian Standards, particulars of which are 
t.uioned in the Scheduled given hereafter, have been cancelled: 


Thb Schedule 


31. No. and Title of the Indian Standard S.O. No. and Date of Gazette Notification in Remarks 

No. Cancelled which Establishment of the Indian Standard was 

Notified 


1 IS : 776-1962 Specification for wooden 
.vuer-closet and co verse ( revised) 


S.O. 2976 dated 19 September 1962 published Cancelled in view of the fact that 
in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, wooden seats and covers are 
sub-section (ii) dated 29 September 1962. found to be unhygienic in usage. 

Instead, plastic seats and covers 
as per IS: 2548-1967 are re- 
commended for use. 


1 IS: 2527-1963 Sptcificrion for bright 
bars for threaded components. 


S.O. 415 dated 22 January 1964 published in 
the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub- 
section (ii) dated r February 1964 


Cancelled in view of publication 
of IS: 4855-1969 Specification 
for bright steel bars for ma- 
chining. 


3 


13:3021-1965 Specification for bentO' 
nite for use in foundries 


S.0.2673dated 13 August 1965 published in the Cancelled in view of publication 
Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub- of IS :6i86-i97i Specification for 
section (ii) dated 28 August 1965 bentonite. 


[No.CMD/13: 



4672 THE CAZETTfe OP INDIA: OC TOBER 21, 19)2/ASVtNA 29, 1894 [Part tf~ 


^ fovft, 21 fHd«K, 1972 

3315 -RiTT TOW TT ffTtfaT RHTf'I TO-Tu TOTT (WimT fwf) frfrw, 1955 % fafo-TR 5 % 

3 qfrPra* T ( 1 ) % TOJTOT 'fiTWfa TOW TOTO JTU STfa^fo fRBTT Tm £ fo ffoT TOTOfte TO-for % wft> TOA ITTO^ A 

fof tfo f, m for »fo f : — 

W 7^ fa^t »fo TOTTtfte TOW Tt PIT TOW % TRW f^T TTR 5?> TORT forte form 

toftt sfk fote wffor $A R?r grow stft ^ 

*fr 


(1) (2) 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


1 


2 


3 


If: 776-1962 WsfT sfil^ 
z <r snff sfte tot% TOwrot Rit f 4 lai far 


■totto % mm tor II, 3, w; 
2, forte 29 flffRT, 1962 A 
smfm tot sft hwt 2976, forte 

19 f«tf«rr, 1962 


TOE#t Rif Atz TORT JTO Tlfri 

% frfo Tfo wt for % tow 

TOT fon TOTT, \*fo mTO T T 
TOTfol % fmr IS : 2 548- 
1967 % TOTTOT TOft TOTfeTO 
# rffof SRT 8TOTOTO TO folTO if 
forrfTTO TOt *rt t i 


IS; 25 17-1 963 '^fterr 55ft %f?nr tow TO tto tor II, i ronr 3, nw 
wTOHV wrf TOt foftrfte 2, forte 1 w*rfr, 1 964 Jr RTOTfinn 

CJTT Tfr 415, forte 22teRfV, 1964 


IS : 4855-1 969 TOfor fafo 

toTO % fair ternr toT 

sfo TOT fafaffa TO wrar % toto- 
wtor t? tot fort rto $ i 


IS: 3021-1965 TOfafjfa R spffo TO TO TORTOr TOR 1 1, ^aTm 3, TTOPU IS: 61 36-197 1 sfTfftTOT^ 
TO ffor TOffo^ TOt fofaffa 2, forte 28 TO, 196 5 ^ STTOTfw fafafo TO TOUT % '+HWI 

RR *iT 2673 , forte 1 3 totw, tot fort rto % i 

1965 


[ilo»ftoiTp-o^to 13: 7] 


New Delhi, the 25 th September 1972 

S. O.3316— -In pursuance of sub-rule (r) of rule 4 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Rules, 1955 the Ind an 
Standards Instituion hereby notifies that th; Standard Mirk(s), design(s) of whichtogether with the verbal desciption of The design(s) 
and the titlc(s) of the relevant Indian St in 1 ird(s') tre given in the Schedule hereto annexed, have been specified. 

These Standard Mark(s) for the purpose of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Act, 1952 and the Rules and 
Regulations framed thereunder, shall come into force with effect from the dates shown against each : 


The Schedule 


SI. Design of the 
No. Standard Mark 

Product/Class of 
Product 

No, and Title of the 
Relevant Indian Standard 

Verbal description of the Design 
of the Standard Mark 

Date of 
Effect 

( 1) W 

( 3 ) 

( 4 ) 

( 5 ) 

(6) 

r. IS : 909 

Underground fire hydrant 
sluice- valve type. 

IS : 909-1965 Specification 
for underground fire hyd- 
rant, sluice- valve type 
(revised) 

The monogram of the Indian 
Standards Institution,, con- 
sisting of letters ‘IS I’ drawn 
in the ex g t style and relative 
proportions as indicated in 
Col. (2) , the number desi- 
gnation of the Indian Standard 
being superscribed on the 
top side of the monogram a s 
indicated In the design. 

16 Aug 1972 




Si-r, 3 (ii' 1 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 , 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


Storage type automatic 
electric water heaters 


'oil 


3, TS : Ci2\o 


IS : 2082-1965 Specifics - 
tion for storage type 
automatic electric water 
heaters ( revised) 


Hot rolled steel sheets for 
the manufacture of low 
pressure gas cylinder. 


IS : 6340-1971 Speciflca - 
tion for hot rolled steel 
sheet* for the manufa- 
cture of lowjpreesure gas 
cylinder*. 


16 Aug 1972 


2. IS : 20S2 . Storage type automatic IS : 2082-1965 Speciflca - The monogram of the Indian 1 Aug 1972- 

electric water heaters tion for storage type Standards Institution, con- 

automatic electric water sisting of letters ‘ISl; drawn 
heaters ( revised ) in the exact style and relative 

proportions as indicated In 

H j col. (2), the number desig- 

nation of the Indian Standards 
being super scribed on the top 
aide of the monogram as Indi* 
catedln the design, 

3. TS : 62 to H"L rolled atcel sheets for IS : 6240-1971 Speciflca - The monogram of the Indian 16 Aug 197: 

I he manufacture of low tion for hot rolled steel Standards Institution, con- 

:s aj4o pressure gas cylinder. sheet* for the manufa- aigting of letters ‘ISI; drawn 

fijESA cture of lowjpreesure gas in the exact style and relative 

; ,8S I I cylinder*. “ proportion* as indicated in Col. 

(2), the number designation of 
the Indian Standard being 
superscribed on the top siae 
of me monogram as indicated 
in the design. 

[No.CMD/i3:9l 

25 fi K T E TT, 1972 

?fro 3316 : — 1OT TTTO TO & ftfafl »TR?lt<T TOT* TTTOT (STTTO 1 !^ fTO«T, 1955 47 fWT 4 * 3T- 

ffTTO ( l) % TTTOTO TO/ffT TOT* TTF«rr ?f wfsT^froflTOT *Tm& f* fan HTTP ^ fviTTTO TflT TOf*** farTTO 

r '<rr r ^T ht-ttt * «Tf?ar ;fY% sr^TfY if fro nrrcfor ttt* to*tt ¥pt froff^T f*?r ntf I i 

*rKtfr<T yr-rn y«rr wto 1952 sflr snfr-r jtY fro*TY * frM A tot* toY* % tot 

f[ Mmi ^ tot sfr to?* 1 

wr^fY 


TOo TOo 


TfWT 

TOTr 

qfY frsTTTO 

^?qr«r tot T’ r -TO ti «t 4 

wj tuttYt totti ifY 
to tott wYt s?fY<iTr 

<TR?fYtT ITTJT^ Vt fYFTTTO 
to ktYto: to froro 

W ?Y% fiTpr 

(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 


IS : 909 ^f*TTO STfTO 

TO* TOfT r 


IS : 909—1985 

TOT TlfTO fTjfri, 
TO* *T^T 

) I 


2 IS : 2082 srY^r jtto finnfr 
% ifYer, TFfr % 


IS : 2082-1965 Wt- 
Y-T ci^h taavt fa-aefl 
% totY % ttYtoY q?Y 
faPdfU (fr-fYer*) 


totoYYt tot* toto *r 10 toto, 
tYtYtot faroY 'ISI 
5ft S FTO* ( 2 ) 

JY front ?fr^ 

«FJTOT JY fw 

TOT | tYYt 31711 fTOTTTO 
TO? T»T tYtYWR % 

37TO tfr wY* totHY* 

TOT* TTTOT fl ft 

$< 

TOT* TteTT TO 1 6 WIT, 

tYtYtot fro*f ‘ISI' 

ST*T $TiT ? FcfTO ( 2 ) 

H fd< 3 1 1 vlvO wV< 5 PJ- 
tot $ f*n tot 
| ifYr %t frorrTO tot 
^ F^TT tYtYTOI % 

3TO 3?Y TTYt * 1 ffl'Yh 
TOT* ^Y TOm ^Ynf 
*«: 



4674 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1 8y4 


[Part II — 



3 IS : 6240 



eeiete tfa 

% f*1 -H f* 7 ! % fvE[ EE 

tfaEcT ^ETET eY Eft I 


IS : 6240-1971 E*E- EREfE EFTE EEEi ET 16 WE, 1972 
^TE 4e fEfvRSTf T EtEKTR fEEH ‘1ST’ 
fEEf'E^f^EEtf^Tcl' SREffrtWEI (2) 

^ETET nt W^fr 

faftrfe 1 e^w *r 3 er ftrrr 

EET^sftT^ET f^TEr 
eet | ee ehiw T etc 

<pT <TtT ErEiftE EETT 
^ TOT ^ ^ | I 


[EEET jftotTTfo^ro/ 13:9] 

S. 0.33X7— *’n pursuance of nub-regulation (3) of regulation 7 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks)Regulations 
1955, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that the marking fee(s) per unit for various products 
details of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed, have been determined and the fee(s) shall comeinto force with effect from the 
dates jhown against each : 

The Schedulb 


SI. Product/Class No. and Title of Relevant Unit Marking Fee per Unit Date of 

No. ofProduct I ndiuri Standard Effect 


1. Underground fire IS : 909-1965 Specification One hydrant Rt. t oo 16 Aug 1972 

hydrant, sluice - for underground fire 

valve type hydrant, sluice- value type 

(reinsiJ) 

2 . Storage type auto- IS : 2032-1965 Specification One heater Re. i-oo 1 Aug 1972 

made electric for storage type automatic 
water heaters electric water heaters 

( revised ) 

3. Hot rolled steel IS :6i40-t97i Specification One tonne 25 Palsae I|t6 Aug 1972 

sheets for th: for hot tolled steel sheets 

manufacture for for the manufacture of 

low pressure gas lo.v pressure gas cylinders 
cylinders. 

[No, CMD/13H0] 

tnj° SfTo 3317 : — ERefrE EfEE fEfWT, 1955 % fEfEEE 7 % TEWHEE ( 3 ) % 

EEER EREfE ETET EEIT EE ER E EfagfEE f^Er ETET £ f% fafEW ETETEt Tt Ufa wt *p?WE l51t f^R% 
$eYJ Fft% E^EET t f-TE £, fEtrffEE Et Ef £ e£e E TrE TE% ETE fEETT^ E$ fEf«TEf Jr TEJ ?f EPYfr : — 

^E TTR/EfETEE EE EE ETE£ ERYTE ETET El EE- TEdt EfE SEdf EfR ETE #1 Yt fdfE 

EEEr E p Er eIR uftEEJ TETE eY EYE 

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) 


1 EfEEE Efrl IS : 909-1965 EfEEE trap Eo 1.00 16 EETE, 1972 

EvjE, E7EE 41HH EpE ETFE CT?E 

EY fEfwfe (jEffofE) 






Sec. 


4675 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


(0 ( 2 ) ( 3 ) ( 4 ) (S) (6) 


2 . 

fsrspft % tftI Y z\zr 


3 . 4^ favrard Y 

f'TT’rn % PY! TfFvET 
5F7FT Yt I 


IS : 2082-1965 mYG 4 mp sftTT 

51^3 JirTET f^Efr T TT'ft 

% f prr. Yf fafElfe ('pnY 
feiTff) 

IS : 6240-197 1 ST^KPT ftT *ftefT H 7 T 
% frY^rr % ffTH-Wr % 

TE ^FTET Yt ^ff 
Yt fTpflfe I 


1,00 


25 fan 


1 SHIFT, 1972 


16 shift, 10712 


[Y 7 frotTrro^o/l 3 : 10] 


Mu 10 Delhi, the 11 October 1972 

S.O. 3318. — In pursuance of sub-regulations (2) and (3) of regulation 3 of the Indian Standards Instituton (Certification 
Marks) Regulations., 1955, as amended from time to time, the Indian Standards Institution hereby not fics that the Indian Standard(s ) 
particulars of which arc mentioned in the Schedule given hereafter, have been established during the period 1 November, 1971 to 15 
November, 1971 : 


The Schedule 


SI. No. and T tie of the Indian Standard No. and Title of the Indian Standard Brief Particulars 

No. Established if any, superseded by the new Indian 

Standard 


Cl) 


(2) 


( 3 ) 


(4) 


1. 


3- 

4 - 

5 - 


6 . 


7 - 


8 . 


IS 1248-1971 Speeficat'on for sodium 
b : sulphite (sodium metabi sulphite) 

(second revision). 


IS 11163-1971 Specification for chocolates 
(first revision). 

*IS 11186-1971 Spec 'fication for shuttles 
for hessian and sack ng looms (first 
revision). 

IS '.1448 Methods of test for petroleum and 
its products 

Pl5 (1970) Burning quality (first revision) 

IS 11448 Methods of test for petroleum 
and its products 

Pno (1970) Cloud point and pour point 
( first revision) 

IS:i?3t-l97t Dimensions for steel flats 
for structural and general engineering 
purposes (first revision) 

**IS 11746-1970 Specification for shoe 

[ polish, paste (first revision) 


IS:t974-i97i Specification for cotton 
sp ndle tapes for jute textile mills ( first 
revision) 


IS 1248-1961 Specification for sodium 
b sulph te (sodium mctabisul- 
phite) (first revision). 


ISU163-1958 Specification for co- 
vering chocolate- 

(i) IS 11186-1957 Spec fication for 
shuttles for hessian loom and 

(ii) IS 11187-1957 Specification for 
shuttles Or sackinglooms. 

IS 11448 Methods of test for petro- 
leum and its products 

P 15 (i960) Burning quality 

IS 11448 Methods of test for petro- 
leum ansi its products 

P ; 10 (i960) Cloud point and pour point 

IS 11731-1961 Dimensions for steel 
flats for structural and general en- 
gineering purposes 

IS 11746-1960 Specification for shoe 
polish 


IS : 1974-1961 Specifieat'on for cotton 
sp ndle tape (for jute textile mills) 


This standard prescribes the requirements 
and the methods of sampling and test 
for sodium bisulphite (sodium meta- 
bisulphite) of the technical and photo- 
graphic grades (Price Rs. 3' 50). 

This standard prescribes the requirements 
and the methods of test for chocolates 
(Price Rs.6'5o). 

This standard spec fics the requirements 
for shuttles for hessian and sacking looms 
(Price Rs. 3' 00). 

Two methods are prescribed in order to 
evaluate the burning properties of 
kerosinc (Price Rr- 2- 00) 

These methods prescribe procedures for 
the determination of the cloud po nt and 
pour point of petroleum products 
(Price Rs. 2' 00) 

This standard spec'fics dimens ons, weights 
and sectional areas of hot-rolled steel flats 
for structural and general engineering 
purposes. (Price Rs. 2' 00) 

Th's standard prescribes the requirements 
and the methods of sampling and test for 
wax-solvent paste type polishes suitable 
for general application to leather footwear 
(Price Rs- 4' 00) 

This standard spec fics the requirements 
for cotton spindle jtapes for jute textile 
mills. (Price Rs. 3 ’oo) 


♦Fot purposes of ISI Cert'ficarion Marks Scheme, IS 11186-1971 shall come into force with effect from 1 Sep. 1971. 
* D’or purposes of ISI C;rt fiettion Marks Scheme, IS 11746- 1970 shall come into force with effect from 1 Sep. 1971. 





4676 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Fart 11 — 


00 O) 

9. IS 12087-1971 Spec fication for square tins 
for general purposes ( second revision) 


10. IS 12257-1970 Spec fication for paper ad- 
hesives, liquid gum and office paste type 
(first revision ) 


11. IS 12684 (Part IV)-i97i Dimensions of 
electron c valves 
Part IV niagnoval base type 


12. 18:2784-1971 Specification for shuttle for 

automat c cop-changing jute looms ( first 
revision ) 

13. fc§IS 12910-1971 Specification for shuttles 

for jute board looms {first revision ) 

14. IS 13062-1970 Specification for rocker 

sprayer (first revision) 


XJ. 18:3078-1971 Specification for rings for 
spinning frames (first revision ) 


16. IS 13368-1970 Specification for wooden 
heald frames for wire and flat steel healds 
(first revision) 


1 7. [8:4465-1970 Speciflcat'on for metal 

heald frames for flat steel healds ( first 
revision) 


18. IS :500o(ODio)-t97i Dimensions of semi- 
conductor devices. Device outline OD10 

19, IS :jooofODiT)-i97i Dimensions of semi- 
conductor devices. Device outline OD11 

20. IS:Jooo(ODi2)-i97i Dimensions of semi- 

conductor devices. Device outline OD12 

21. IS 5ooo(ODi3)-i97i Dimensions of semi- 

conductor devices. Device outline OD13 

22. IS :5ooo(ODi4')-i97i Dimensions of semi- 

conductor devices. Device outline OD14 

23. IS 5493-1969 Dimensions for wrought 

copper and copper alloy tubes 


(3) 

This standard prescribts the requiren ,entB 
and the methods of sarrpling and lest 
for square built up tins manufactured 
from tinplate (Price Rs. 4-00) 

This standard preset bes the requirements 
and the methods o f s am.pl ng and tcBt for 
adhes'Ves for joining paper to paper or 
paper to other surfaces 1 kc paperboard, 
wood, cloth, glass and metals n general 
office use. (Price Rs- 3" 50) 

This standard covets outl nes of receiv'ng 
valves of the mugnoval base type, dimen- 
sions of magnoval base used with such 
valves and dimensions of gauges suitable 
for checking the base dimensions. 
(Price Rs. 2-50) 

Th'R standard spec fits the rt quin r rnts 
for shutlle for automatic cop-changing 
jutelooms (Price Rs. 3-00) 

This standard spec lies the rcqu'rem.ents 
for shuttles for jute broad looms (Priee 
Rs. 3 'oo) 

This standard prescribes the requ'rcnients 
and the methods of test ng uie perfor- 
mance of rocker sprayer used for spraying 
pesticides, insectxdes, Weedic des, etc. 
in liquid form. (Price Rs. S'oo) 

This standard prescribes requ rements ot 
rings of convent onal type for use m ring 
spinmng frame in conjuction with metal 
travellers conforming to the requirements 
la d down in 18:3523-1970 ‘Specification 
for metal travellers for ring spinning frame 
(first revision)’ (Price Rs. 5 ’oo) 

This standard prescribes requirements of 
the following two types of heald frames 
for wire and flat steel healds conforming 
to IS:ii90-i969 ‘Specification for twin 
wire healds (excluding jacquard fancy 
and jute wcav ng (first revision)’, and 
18:2487-1963 ‘Spccficaton for flat steel 
healds for cotton, silk, woollen and wors- 
ted weaving (excluding jacquard and Ieno 
weaving)’ : 

(a) Heald farme with double end-brackets, 
and 

(b) Heald frame with combined wooden 
end-staves and end-brackets- 

(Price Rs. 5'ooJ. 

This standard prescribes requirements for 
metal heald frames for flat steel healds 
conforming to 18:2487-1963 ‘Speci- 
fication for flat steel healds for cotton, 
silk, woollen and worsted weaving (ex- 
cluding jacquard and leno weaving)’ 
(Price Rs. 5 -oO). 

This standard specifies the dimensions for 
semiconductor devices, device outline 
ODto (Price Rs. 3-00) 

This standard specifics the dimensions of 
semiconductor devices, device outline 
OD11 (Price Rs.3-oo) 

This standard specifies the dimensions of 
semiconductor devices, device outline 
ODi 2 Price Rs. 3-00) 

This standard specifies the dimensions of 
semiconductor devices, device outline 
OD13 (Price Rs. 3 00). 

This standard specifies the dimensions of 
semiconductor devices (Price»R s , 3-00) 
This standard specifies dimensions and 
tolerances for wrought copper and copper 
alloys in the form of drawn tube. (Price 
Rs 2-00) 


(3) 

IS 12087-1966 Specification for squ- 
are tins for general purposes 
(revised) 

IS 12257-1962 Specificationfor paper 
adhesives, liqu d gum and office 
paste type 


IS :2784-i964 Specification for shut- 
tles for automatic cop-changing 
jute looms 

IS 12910-1964 Specificaiion for shut- 
tles for jute board looms 

IS 13062-1965 Specification for rock- 
er sprayer 


18:3078-1965 Specification for 
rings for spmmng frame 


IS .’3368-1965 Specification for woo- 
den heald frames for wine and flat 
Steel healds 


18:4465-1967 Spec'ficat'on for me- 
tal heald frames for flatsteel healds 


'n) For purposes o' ISI Cirtification Marks Schstnr IS :?.9io-t97i shall com t into force with effect from 1 Sep. I97t- 
For purposes of ISI Certification Marks Scheme 18:4465-1970 Bhall come into torce with ol feet Irom 1 Oct. 1971. 



Sr.c. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4^77 



24. 18:5660-1970 Specification for ready mixed 

paint, brushing, aluminium, — red 

oxide primer 


25. IS:5675-i97i Specification for rotary-disc 
vacuum filters 


26. IS:58i5 (Part I)-I97i Methods of test for 
fishing gear materials 
Part I determination of thickness 


27. IS:5822-i97o Code of practice for laying of 

welded steel pipes for water supply 


28. IS:5325-i97o Guide for evaluation of ther- 

mal endurance of enamelled wires 


29. IS 5826-1970 Constructional requirements 

for flat storage structures for grains (capa- 
city above 200 tonnes) 

30. IS:5839-I97o Code for hygienic conditions 

for manufacture, storage and sale of ice- 
creams 


31. IS:5857-i97o Specification for nickel and 
nickel alloy bare solid welding rods and 
electrodes. 


32. IS :585s (Part I)-i973 Specification for ac- 

cessories to mechanical ventilation systems 

on board ships 

Part I non- return valves 

33. 18:5865-1970 Soecification for wooden 

heels for women’s and girls' footwear 


34. 18:5870-1970 Soerifiorion for glass globes 

for internal lighting of passenger coaches 


35. IS:53?8 (Part V)-I97i Code of practice for 

construction of tunnels 
Part V concrete lining 

36. IS:5886-I97o Methods for estimation of 

carotenes and vitamin A (retinol) in 
foodstuffs 

37. 18:5890-1970 Specification for mobile 

hot mix asphalt plant, light duty 


This standard prescribes the requirements 
and the methods of sampling and test for 
ready mixed paint, brushing, aluminium- 
red oxide primer. The material is used 
as a primer for steel work (Price Rs. 3 ■ 50). 
This standard covers general requirements 
for continuous rotary-disc vacuum filters 
with a filter base located on flat vertical 
surfaces of sector type rotary discs partly 
submerged in the slurry and intended for 
the separation for free-flowing neutral, 
acidic or alkaline suspensions (Price 
Rs. 4 00). 

This standard prescribes method for deter- 
mination of thickness of netting yarn 
defined as the distance between one sur- 
face and its opposite; and in textiles, the 
distance between upper and lower surfaces, 
exclduing the standing out hairs. (Price 
Rs. 1-50). 

This code covers the methods of laying 
butt-welded mild steel pipes of diameters 
200 mm and above, laid either above 
gruond or under-ground for water supply. 
It also includes handling and jointing of 
pipes and hydrostatic tests (Price Rs. 7' 50) 
This guide lays down a test procedure for 
evaluating the useful life of round enamel- 
led wires having bare wire diameter of 
o 25 to 3 -35 mm inclusive. (Price 
Rs. 5- 50). 

This standard covers the constructional re- 
quirements for flat storage structures of 
capacity above 200 tonnes used for storing 
foodgrains in bulk. (Price Rs. 4-00). 

This code specifies the hygienic conditions 
and hygienic practices required to be 
adopted in the manufacture, packaging, 
storage, distribution and sale of different 
varieties of ice-creams. This code is 
by and large also applicable to ice-candies 
and similar products (Price Rs. 8-50) 
This standard orescribes the requirements 
of bare solid filler rods and wires for weld- 
ing nickel and nickel alloys by inert gas 
.tungsten arc welding (TIG) or gas metal 
arc welding (MIG). The chemical 
composition of filler rods is also specified 
(Price 5-50). 

This standard specifies the material and the 
dimensions for non-return valves for use 
with mechanical ventilation systems on 
board ships. (Price Rs. 2- 00 \ 

This standard prescribes requirements and 
methods of sampling and test for wooden 
heels required for manufacture of footwear 
for women and girls (Price Rs 5. 50 )_ 
This standard prescribes dimensional re- 
quirements and the methods of sampling 
and test for glass globes used for internal 
lighting of passenger coaches. (Price 
Rs. 5'00). 

This standard deals with specifications and 
procedures for laying concrete lining for 
tunnels, covering pack and pressure 
grouping. (Price Rs. 2-50). 

This standard prescribes methods for the 
estimation of carotenes and vitamin A 
(retinol) in foodstuffs. (Price Rs. 5w). 

This standard lays down the requirements 
regarding materials, design, construction, 
capacity and performance of mobile hio 
asphalt mixing plants of small copactiy 
("Price Rs. 3 -50). 



4678 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II — 


(0 


(2) 


(3) 


( 4 ) 


38. 


39. 


40 . 


4i. 


42. 


43- 


44. 


45. 


46. 


47. 


48. 


49- 


50 . 

51. 


18:5898-1970 Specification for copper and 
| copper alloy bare solid welding rods and 
electrodes 


The standard^ prescribes the requirements 
of bare BOlid filler rods and wires for weld- 
ing copper and alloys by inert-gae are 
process, that is inert-gas mngsten arch 
welding (TIG) or gas metal- arc welding 
(MIG). The chemical composition of 
the rods and wires is also specified, 
(Price Rs. 5*00) 


18:5914-1970 Methods of physical testing All physical methods of test Specified This standard prescribes the methods for 

ofleathcr in: carrying opt physical tests for all types 

(i) 18:582-1954 Methods of samp- of leathers. 

ling and test for vegetable and Should any inconsistency exist between the 
chrome tanned leathers and methods of test in this standard with those 

(ii) IS:ioi6-i956 Methods of sam- of the methods prescribed in the material 

pling and test for oil tanned lea- specifications, the latter shall prevail. 


thers. 

TS:5944-i97i Specification for accessories 
for use in shuttles for jute looms 


18:5946-1970 Specificaton for whirling 
psychrometer 


IS:5947-i97o Charts for recording meteoro- 
logical [instruments 


IS :594s- 1970 Specification for thermometer screens 


IS:5959 (Part I)-i970 Specification for 
polyethylene insulated and P VC-sheathed 
(heavy duty) electric cables 
Part I for working voltage up to and includ- 
ing' 1100 volts 

IS:5962-I970 Specification for partly 
skimmed sour milk powder 


(Price Rs. 15, 50) 

This • standard prescribes requirements of 
accessories, such as offset rip. cover, 
cover lock, drag pring, pin and brishtles. 
I'PriceRs. 5- 00) 

This standard specifies The requirements 
for whirling psychro meter for measuring 
air temperature and atmospheric humidity 
(Price R fl . 2-00 

This standards specifies he requirement 
for charts for use with the following 
meteorological instruments with either 
weekly or daily clockdrums : 

(i) Raingauge, recording; 

(ii) Thermograph, bimetallic; 

(iii) Hair hygrograph; and 

(iv) Barograph, aneroid. (Price Rs. 5*50) 

This Standard prescribes r he requirements 
for thermometer screens for exposure of 
thermometers and recording instruments 
for the measurement of air temperature 
and humidity. (Price Rs. 2 -jo.) 

This standard covers the requirements for 
both armoqrdc and tmarmourdc single 
core, twin-core, three-core and multi-core 
polyethylene insulated and PVC-sheathed 
cables for electricity supply and control 
purposes. (Price Rs. 5-50) 

This standard prescribes the requirements 
and the methods of sampling and test for 
partly skimmed sour milk powder. (Price 
Rs. 2 - 00) 


IS: 5973-1970 Specification for pan eva- 
porim e ter 


15:5982-1970 Specification for plantation 
white sugar for identification from other 
sugars 


IS:5987-I970 Code of practice for selection 
of switches (voltage not exceeding 
1000 V) 

IS:5990-i97i Sizes for shaping machines 


IS:5995-i97i Specification for pipe grip 
pliers 

IS :5999-i97i Specification for swing latches 


This standard specifies the requirements 
for pan evaporimerer consisting of a pan, 
wire mesh cover, fixed point gauge, 
measuring sylinder, thermometer with 
clamp and wooden plateform. (Price 
Rs. 3-50) 

This standard prescribes the requirements 
and the methods of sampling and test for 
plantation white sugar manufactured by 
vacuum pan process, mainly, with a view 
to establishing chemical characteristics 
for identification. (Price Rs. 7-00) 

This code covers selection of switches of 
voltages not exceeding 1000 V ac/dc. 
(Price Rs. 4 00) 

Lays down the basic dimensions for both 
mechanical and hydraulic shaping ma- 
chines. (Price Rs. 3' 00) 

Dimensions and requirements for pipe grip 
pliers. (Price Rs. 3-00) 

Dimensions and requirements for swing 
latches used in holding work pieces in 
place when they are being machined. 

(Price Rs. 3.00) 


IS :499-I958 Methods of test for 
vacuum pan sugar (plantation 

shite) 



Sec. 3 (iO] 


4679 


( 


J) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


(2) 


(3) 


(4) 


52. IS 16000-1971 Specification for rail tongs 

for railways. 

53. IS:6oo2-i97i Specification for tommy bars 

for box spanners. 

54. IS:6oo3-I97o Specification for indented 

wire for prestressed concrete 


55. IS:6oi3-i97n Specification for trowels for 
use in foundries 


56. IS:6oij-T97o Specification for barium 
hydroxide 

37. IS:6oi 6-I970 Specification for hose con- 

nection for welding and cutting equipment 


58. 13:6024-1970 Specification for guards for 

grain harvesting machines 


59. 13:6025-1970 Specification for knife sec- 

tions for grain harvesting machines 


60. IS:6o33-i94i Specification for mackerel, 

frozen 

61. IS:6o 37-I970 Specification for zinc oxide- 

cugenol dental impression paste. 


62. IS:6o3S-t97o Specification for dental im- 
pression compound. 


63. IS 16019-1970 Specification for zinc oxide- 
eugenol dental cement. 


64. IS :6o3o-i97t Specification for temporary 
corrosion preventives, strippable, hot- 
dipping type. 


65. IS :605a ('Part II-1970 Specification for hand 
tools for footwear industry. 

Part I upper clicking knife 


66. IS :6o 54-I970 Specification for clearer cloth. 

67. 18:6037-1970 Specification for hard 
ano lie coatings on aluminium. 


68. IS:6o6i (Part IVT971 Code of practice for 
construction of floor and roof with joists 
and filler blocks Part I With hollow con- 
crete filler blocks. 


69. IS:6o79-r97r Specification for cast alloy 
steel grinding media. 


Lays down the dimensions and the require- 
ments for rail tongs for railways. (Trice 
Ps. 3-00) 

Dimensions and requirements for tomm 
bars for box spanners. (Price Rs. 3-o 0 ) 
This s'andard covers the requirements for 
manufacture, supply and testing of indent- 
ed hard drawn wire for use in prestressed 
concrete. (Price Rs, 4'00) 

Requirements for trowels or use in found- 
ries. Trowels are used for making, finish- 
ing end repairing the moulds. (Price 
Rs. 5-50) 

This standard prescribes the requirements 
and the methods of sampling and test 
for barium hydroxide. (Price Rs. 5-00) 

TIub standard specifies the* connection fit tingB 
for hoses with a nominal bore up to 
12.5 mm for use with gas welding and 
cutting equipment. (Price Rs. 4 00) 

This standard specifies the material and 
dimensions of guards of a cutter bar of 
gmin harvesting machine. (Price Rs. 

3 ' 30 ) 

This ' standard specifies the material and 
dimensions of a knife section, width of 
cu f and number of knife sections in the 
cutter bar of grain harvesting machines 
(Price Rs. 3-50) 

This standard prescribes the requirement 
and methods of sampling and tesr for 
frozen mackerel. (Price Rs. 3-50) 

This standard prescribes the requirements 
and the methods of sampling and test for 
zinc oxide-cugcnol impression paste used 
in dentistry. (Price Rs, 3 ■ 50) 

This standard prescribes the requirements 
and methods of sampling and t r st for 
dental imoression compound (also known 
as modelling compound). (Price Rs. 
3 . 50 ) 

This standard prescribes the requirements 
and the methods of sampling and test for 
zinc oxide-eugenol dental cement. (Price 
Rs. 3-50) 

This standard prescribes the requirements 
and methods of sampling and test for strip- 
pable hot-dipping type temporary protec- 
tives suitable for metal parts such ps steel, 
copper ond aluminium during siorageand 
transport. (Trice Rs. 4 -oo) 

This standard prescribes the requirements 
and methods of sampling and test or 
clicking knife used in footwear industry for 
cutting of upper components of footwear. 
("Price Rs. 3-50) 

This standard specifies the repuiremente for 
clearc cloth (Pric: Rs- 3.00) 

This standard lays down requirements for 
hari anodic coatings on aluminium forengi- 
neering applications. Hard annodizirg in- 
tended for decorative purposes is not included 
(Price Rs. 2.30) 

This standard covers the method of cons- 
truction of floor and roof using precast 
reinforced ce m ent ennerete/prestressed 
concre-e joists and hollow cement concrete 
filler blocks with in situ reinforced concrete 
decking at the top. (Price Rs. 4 00) 

This standard covers the requirements for 
cast alloy steel grinding media, (Price 
Rs . 2 1 00) 



4680 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVTNA 29, 1894 [Part IT— 


CD 


(D 


(3) 


(4) 


70. 18:6093-1971 Method of determining the 

capacity and dimensions of hermetically 
sealed metal food c antainers. 


71 . IS :6toi-i97i Specification for slotted pan 
head screws. 

72. IS: 6116-1971 Specification for dental chair. 


This standard prescribes the terminology, 
designations method for determination 
of capacity, procedure for dimensional 
specifications and marking for hermetical 
ly sealed metal food containers. Price 
R*. 3 5°) 

Rcquirem -nts for slotted pan head screws in 
the diamet. r range 2 ■ 5 to 10 mm, (Price Rb. 

'500) 

Cover s requirements of dental chair for use 
of dental patients. (Price Rs. 3 -00) 


Copies of these Indian Standards are available for sale with the Indian Standards Institution, Manak Bhawan, 9 Bahadur Shalt 
Zafar Marg New Dclhi-i and also its branch offices at (i) 534 Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Road, Bombay-7 TO 5, Chowringhee Approach, 
Road, Calcutta-13 (iii) 54, General Pai-ters Road, Madras-2 (iv) 117/418 B, Sarvodaya Nagar, Kanpur, (v) 5-9-201/2, Chirag Ali 
Lane,’ Hyderabad- 1 (vi) ‘SADHANA’ Nurmohamed Sheikh Marg, Kanpur, Ahmedabad-l andi viij F. Block, Unity Bldg, , Narasimharaja 


Square, Bangalore-2.*- 


[No. CMD/i3:2l 

M. V. patAnkar 

Deputy Director Generi. 


NgY/T RTTR Y 7«1T 


T# fYwYt, II 4FFJ 5TT, 1972 

Trjfo gfto 3318. — TRT RET 9T YYlfSTT WRcftiT RTFS Y7RT Ww 1 9 5 5 % fafamT 3 % 

^q fg ri v pTR ( 2 ) ( 3 ) % vttt#t rppt Yrtt sm srfYrjfRT fwr rtcy Y f% RY^Yt Y Yet rtetEt rfetY 

% sqYY fYY TIT Y 1 RPN7, k971 Y IS RIR7, 1 9 7 1 WfiV Y YRdfR fYY T[Y £ | 

' SpGjYf 

faYffUT RTTcftT Tim Yt ITR'SHT TY HTTYYT RFER gTG 7^ |rr YfYR fw^T 

giV. YHq? RmYr rfee lift ?Y, YV iroti 


( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) ( 4 ) 


1 IS : 248 — 1971 ^ftfViPT TTC- 
tUTEST (YtfTRT Yzr tts- 
) Yt fYfYfe (^TTTt 
5^ft5T°r) 


2 IS : 1 163 — 1971 ^fTYrt YT 
fYfYfe ('IfI'TT qHYtSGl) 

*3 IS '-1 1 86 — 1971 RV 

3ft> Y qrqr % ter % ret ^ 
fq failed (u6"ll ’pFClST 0 !) 


4 IS : 1448- — YAtfwr sftT 

TtMlYf Yt TfESTR M^friui 

YV : 5 ( 1970 ) TRYYTJtii 


IS : 248 — 1961 TftfWT sTTC- 
(mfrim Ytt tt^- 
YY WYfe (TTHl 

yrfWFir) 


IS : net — i 95 8 3; c n r TTtiTY% 
qY Morfe 

( 1 ) IS: 1 186 — 1 957 YfY?FT 
TT-reff qY f#lfe, SfV 

( 2 ) IS : 1 18 7— 195 7 YlY % 
ttY % dTTrft % dpjpqlr qY 
fYftrfe 

IS : 1448 — 'fe/lPiUH iftT 371% 
RcTTYT qY 9 "Ct 5 T u T M^frElt 
Yt : 5 ( I9 60) SETT % TT 


TR -HM'fi Y RlfdRH =TTYR"9)ls2' (RlftSq-H 
YTT sUVUT’lad) % eEEYYfY rV YYY- 
reiY Ytt % Ym Y sYrenY tnARY 
YY em tCRtw qY q-^fFRit PtetYta 
qY tt£ f I 
(tJSH 3. 50) 

?*r TRFfi Y % fwT Y sYrerrY awr 
irmi'T 'Tg'fYrY Yr qf # i 

(TRq - To 6.50) 

ttfff Y YfRR YtT % qrrt % 
TTEfl Y 5FJTcT UP-ll Y fquT Y TlYwiY 
Yt ttY | 1 
(^etr to 3 , 00 ) 

?*i rttf Y fYrYt Y ?r % wttY % TYf 

*3 

TT TRfY % fYrr Yt NglYTlT Yt ttY | I 

(iJR- T° 2. OO) 


•NlTo RTo YP41 SRFF1 TT^X YDR1 % fYrt : 1 186 — 1971, 1 fYtTRT, 1971 Y ^Fl ^Ytt l 



<jj. c 3 (ii THE GAZETTE OF INDTA: OCTOBER 2 ), 1972 /ASVINA 29 , U :94 4681 

( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) ( 4 ) 


5 IS : 144 8 %jrpFTR TR% 

BcRKT 4% TFlRTR FSpcTOT 

Rf : ' 10 ( 1970 ) v^sr 4FR FftF 
7 r? 7 FT F 47 
(qWT 'JRFlRT’R ) 

6 IS : 1731 — 1 971 R^RIFFE 

srtF BTfTFT RTFff 47 

fHO^FTIcT % ! T#F % RTT ( TfTTT 

8,0 OoFR ) 

* 7 IS: 1746 — 1970 4]% ^t ^£- 
RRT TTfFr£JT 4 % FtPrIcR ( ToTT 
JRFkl'R) 


8 IS: 1 9 74 — 1971 RFRR tFT- 

CT?T fipff % FEp 5 rf % £<? 

# faftnfe ( q-^rr 5 RF~fwf ) 

9 IS : 2087 — 1 9 7 1 FFTFT TTqf 

% Ptr ^irfatT fort 4 ?r pRpffrPe 
(JWI T T^T’T) 

10 IS : 2257 — 1970 47TRR %ff 
RFF?, ST RTR TTtF RTRFt 47f 

qcFft 5 k (^fr) 4 % fqffrfe 

(slTO 'pxlRT'T) 


11 IS : 2684 (RTR 4) — 1971 
rff % rtt, wit 4 
RRRFFT TTTBTF FT 


12 IS : 2784 — 1971 TFT: WlpTF 
qfFFff TRTFT 47F*ff % ■TFT 47p 
fsrfwfe (q^r'jTTVaT'JT) 


IS : 1448 ipjtPTFT sffF 7JR% 
3 cTpff 4 % TTteT’T TSPcTF 
Rt : 10( I960) £HT Ff7 FlF 
7 ?fTR F 47 

IS : 17 31 — 1961 TPFRIrMR: 
FIR TTTRTF tRtFFTPt TElf % 
pTR l^FR % R#R % RTR 


IS : 1746 — 1960 FT 47f RrpTR 
47 f pRpRfk 


IS : 2087 — 1966 RTRFR wff 
% pTR 4R?RTF fcff Rft fqpjift.? 
(R<TFfftTR) 

IS : 2087 — 19 66TTPTFR47TRf 
% Frrr RREFF fcff RTf pRpRfc 

(yrttacr) 

IS : 225 7 — 1962 4RRF %<ft 
RRTFf TR RE? TflF TRrfFT 4% 

RFTt?k (te) # fqMk 


IS : 2784 — 1964 TFT: mfw 
RfFFTf R3FFT 47FRT % FT 471 

fqklfk: 


^R TUfcWT if ^'ifrm FRl?? % 

?ftF RTFR-FT fRFTTR RJRRpr fsrfsrat 

eft | I 

(FTTTRo 2 . 00 ) 

TJR RTFF if TfFFTFFF ?ftT BERTF 1 ^- 
pRFpr RTTRf % fair r4 F 1 rr ^TRRT % 
RTF 47 RTR RpT ?ftF ifFFT ^7 S^FETT 

pFrfpFR ftk R% t I 
(BfR 2. 00 R°) 

^R RTR47 if FT? % FTt if R1RFR RT % 
TRTR RTR % FTFJTfT RTR TJTTf 

TrftFfff % Fttb if ^rk^rnr, rffH b-^- 
rFTr Fa^trr spt q^fFTqf ffrafftB 

t I 

(qeJT Ro 4. 00) 

BFFfT if fer Ft if FT |T FrfarR 
fTBf % IWT if BFTITT ?ffT RFFfr %% 
m\ 'TFterqr w.\ q^fiFrr eft r^ f i 
(3T?4 Ro 4. 00) 

^T RFTF ir fcr Ft R?Ff if Flf-EK 

fcff T fRTR if rTwiF ?ftF FFfl FT 
ctrt qffiflnjr ^ q^fciRi ^t r^ t i 
Ro 4 , oo) 

RFTfl if TTRf'TTT if RTRFR TTRfR % 
f%rr 47FTR B 5FTF R^, "147^1, 474“f, 
471 4 iftR ’4 FT "'.T I % 3-4 7 47TR4f F444.fR % 
47FT 4TT^ Rlk %'ft TRTRf % fRRR if 
?TfeTTiT 5T|T RTFff rFf F4T 441^ 4 ?f 
T4pl4T pRRrffFR 4ff Ri f I 
(jJRRRo 3. 50) 

7RT RTR47 ifRRlR <A FTTRIT Riff fPilRt 

TF4"f 4?t R-T t 7 4T r ^, 0% RFRf % RTR 47TR 
WFT FT RRRtRT wmiff % RTR tfpR 
FTRTT FTf 47f RTR % T'l^TR RTT % R7R 

fFlffTB f47if Rif | I 
(iJfF Ro 2 . 50) 

?R BTR47 if EFT: sfftfFRT RpTReff 'T2TFT 

47RRf 4ft RMf ^7 fFFT if ’’A 4 Wnf fftl IpFd 
47f Rf | I 
(iJTR Ro 3 , 00 ) 


*?Fg RT- RTF RRFRR RtRRT % PTF IS : 1746 — 1971, 1 pRcIH < 19 71% TTR ^tRT I 



4682 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 197 2/ AS VINA 29, 1894 


[Part 11— 


(l) (2) (3) (4) 


13 15:2910—1971 RET % 

TTU TTfT ETH # 

frfijrfk (T^rTTTrfrtjrr) 

14 IS : 3062 — 1970 TTTT 

Tl fakrfe (t^tt 


15 IS: 3 07 8 — 1971 TTlf RlMf 
% friff Tf faftrrfe (TiRTT 
q-ktSTT) 


16 IS: 3368— 1970 

'STITT % ET^ jfkrf T f'Ttr’ 

(q^TT ’fR^TT) 


4-17 IS : 44 65 — 1 9 7 0 EEt ?ETTT 

% fkrf % km; arr % ^qf 
qfffaFdk ('T^TPJTftSTT) 1 


IS: 2910— 1964 RTFT % 
Wk qrRpf if STTET ETT T?f 
faftrfk 

IS : 3062 — 1965 TfcR E?*R 

Tt faftrfc 


IS : 3078 — 1965 TTf RTEfr 
% fkff # krfsrfo 


*fttt % erkrf % fair 
vFP#r % ^kT-Tkf # frfirfe 


IS : 4465 — 1967 SFTTcT 
% % far HT5 % fR^-TTf 


^r rtrt Jr tret % Rff wf tt ttr Ekr 
Rmft Trfr t frpr Jr *rkrFJ fruffn 
qff qf f i 
(iJRT To 3 . 00 ) 

SR RTET Jf TR RR if TfR ERECT, ffR 
rrttT, twi Rmrf, tttTt Pzimkr 
Jr Tifo ?nJr TkR ts'et % k t-t Jr 
iqJrwnr ?tet tV Tfkm Tsfirri 
fJmTfTcr tV | i 
To 5. 00) 

SERTET Jf IS : 3523 — 19 7 0 fkl TET# 

ttsPYtT T STIT % JRRf TT Pqfjlfe 

(t^et ^tcTqttt) Jr fEEffkr ?pkmff 
% r;jrt ettt; ^ f ' Tret % ret Ire tepI 
TTofr-Tf if TET RTT TTT REpTT TTR % 
fCET % fTT'T if HTHTTH ft qf # I 

(RFR To 5 . 00 ) 

TT trrw Jf Eff pERk-ffTT ft TTR % 
er ?rk sftte % w tjkff % fartr if 
R^TTif ft E$ $ 5ft IS : 1 190 — 19 69 

ER % flik $Tlf (3rf 'kft 5fk 

ezee ^zif ft sjT?tr) ft fffafz 
(q-fT'TT 'fR>ZZ) sfk IS : 2487 — 
19 63 ^Tf fZEt Tft ^tTt 2RZZ TZlf 
% fa-E S r TFT f ZTT ff'ff (f T# fk 

sfrff ETif ft ) tT fTfsrffer %■ 

: 

(*p) Tr Ptg % #T5f T%>ffr^ 

?fhr 

(jj) f^Jr f n; spptT % sit ^ sfk itt 
^T ifTrJr irbr i 

Fo 5, 00) 

*T FFTT if IS : 2487—1963 ^ff, 

J-?nff ^fr sfk ^Tif % fTT 

^qz ^FTRT % fkrf (^T# wk ZfTf 
^zrf tt ^'r?TT) qfr fkr^rfcz 
% IPJ'KT TF9TT % Tk ?k^'f ^ TTT 

% [frsz-^ff ^ ^ 

»lf f I 

(iTfTZo S.oo) 


TK ’rfk IS : 3368—1965 TR ?fk 


*'6To FTo ifm M4I U M RUT RkETT % PTT IS : 7 9 1 0 — 19 70, 1 fkn^’TT 1 9 7 1 NET SfTT I 



Sec. 3(il)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4683 


1 


2 


3 


4 


18. IS: 5000 (ft ft 10) — 1971 I<$ : 4468- 1 06 7 TRi S^TIcT SR RIOT R ROTR ROT RTRRt, ROT 

rrotr rot roti f rtr : f f frr rtr f rr ksr rt ft 10 % rtr fRRifes 

rot rr Rt ft 10 flss ipff ft faferffe: ffR 1 1 


19. IS : 5000 (ftft ll) — 1971 

OTffw rot rot! % btt : 
rot wr r't ft 1 1 

20. IS : 5000 (Rift 12) — 1971 

itt few ROTf f wot:- 
rot wfion rt ft 12 

21. IS : 5000 (ft ft 13) — 1971 

qprfew RIOT ROTf % R1R> 
ROT SR^JT Rt ft 1 3 

22. IS : 5000 (5ft ft 14) — 1971 

rprfew TOT ROTf % RIR:- 
ROT RRkn Rt ft 14 

23. IS : 5493 — 19 69fRRRf Rtf ft 

Rk ott fRRRTRyff ft wfeTcff 

% H 19 

24. IS .’5660 — 1970^W^ B T4fe 

rt% ^fafe-TR ^-?nw 

RTSRR, ROT faffR kr-ffeR ft 

faferfk 


25. IS : 5675 — 1971 R^R Wf- 
5JRT fRfTR fa^ft ft feferfe 


(j£?R Ro 3. 00) 

SR ROT R OTfew ROT ROTf, ROT K 'T- 
T'it Rf ft 1 0 %rtt feyTfeR felt if 1 1 
(ROT r 0 3 . 00 ) 

SR RTRS R R^feR ROT ROTf, ROT 
mtm Rt ft 12 T RTR fesrtfecT fafe 

if 3f I 

(RRT Ro 3 . 00 ) 

SR ROT R Rjpfem RROT RrRRT, RIRR 
SOTR1 Rt ft 13 T RPT ffRTfeR ferf 
Rf $ I 

(’JOT So 3. 00) 

fR ROT f l$<pfeilT ROT ROTf, ROT 
*k<JT ft ft 14 * RTR ffdffeR fefe 
if flf I 

(»TfO» 3.00) 

SR RIOT if fkst Rtf ft tfk RR7 fRR- 
OTTRf ft faff jf RfRRf % Rrqr fk 
©f ft Rf I I 
(ROT 50 2.0 0 ) 

SR ROT R ^<?R R RRR Rife R-RfRlfeRR 

Ry RiRqrsy rtsot, rot Pr-Ptr i r- 

ftTR % fRTT if RklT'f Rk RTRlt R?t 
RRT RTtsTR ft R4[feRf ft if f I Rg 
STRR ft Rtff RT R1SRT f RT if 
RTR Rift o I 
(RRT So 3,50) 

SR ROT R ROT RR if RIRlf Rift ’jfR 

RRRtRRr pTsfR PfrOTt f feTR if 

RIRRR Vfejrs feRffTR ft Rf f I SR 
fesrs Phot if iffjT: ^qj R-^feff 

f RRoT TT ffTR RT ffOT R7RK 
?'tRT | I RR RrRIT Rfif if RiffT RCf if 
TST TSRr f, Rk RRT RT R Rft Rif 
RSTlftR, RTftR RRT RTTtR fewfesR 
ROT! ft RRR f THT RTRT | 1 
Ro 4. 00) 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 , 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[Part IT- 


26 . IS: 5815 (ETE l) — 1971 
EERT Tt fW ETEfEET 
TT rIeE : ETE 1 RtTlf 
fETF'RT 


27 . IS : 5822 — 1970 TFT fEETE 
T P=Ttt sj's^FTfr % ERE 

Tt ZtfT TfWT 


28 . IS ; 5825 “i 970 T^Hf^rrn:‘f*Ft 
ETW^E^fkRT Tt ’JFEt- 
ER ETEEfWI I 

39 . IS : 5826-1970 WTE%EEER 

( 200 Ekk ee Jr 3 tr 

EETf ET%) E^fnEWsrkTTE I 


30 . Is : 5839-1970 WCE-tIE % 
fWPE, EERE PR fEEE Eft 
EElt ERPift fwttfTff Tl 
tffeET I 


31. IS : 5857-1970Pr^T 5fkf^r%rr 
frpTETFJ TT ’JTV ?TR EfRE 

wsi ?rk prjRT i 


P 1 ETET E EpfEEFt 3 ?T qft ERrf 
fETFRl qfl T 3 % EV Ef % I EjT ETni 
ERpt ETsRfETJr TDtff Et ®TpR 
EEf Ek EETft fTTEtT EES E #T Ef 
pfr srk wRrrfr % srta Jr 37 kl sfk 
fEETl RTjfr % Ek qfr ^fr % ^ Jr 
qfTErrrq-rT qft e$ 1 1 
(pR E° i. so) 

te erf Jr 200 Ei eeJt eFsff % 

RIE EH % ^rRfiE 4144 

‘STT'I eV EilfrFTT E$ ^ I ^ 41^4 TTT 
ftWT % ftpr TrEtE § OTT ET tPrTT 
»T?T EE! $ I p ERE Jf qrrff % TT^r 
yi'I'I *fk 'jflS FRFl EET 'd' 1 % 
EEE^FF TftSTE f^ir Elf I I 
(jpr To 7 . oo) 

TE EFkfETT Jr ^ ETT ’jtfEE E? OR! 
EfV TTElfEEl Wfa fEEM *tft E^iTE 
f^rfir fr Et | fsR% RIE 0 . 25 Jr 
3 . 35 fJpft EE % $trT t I 

^E ERE Jr E? 2 T WR 4 RT$ % ETE 
El% 200 Ekftl kf ^ EfEE EET^ 
ETE EEEE ETRT EV fEEW ERRfl 
ETWE fElrffTE E> Ef | I 
(tjtEE® 4 . 00 ) 

?E ERE Jr fafEE ETR El EREEVE 
EER E"R, EEEt TfEE, ETRE, fETRE 

srk frtfV % far steeNt ei^ eteV 
EETf ERFlft ftEfEEt Ek W 4 ft-F .1 
TtfEET Et f I EE Ef^ET ETERT 
EE FT ET^E-E^t EET ER n% E?ETEt 
% fEE Et ET^ elTt | l] 

8 . 50 ) 

?E EIEE E EfTE-EE JTRE EFf E^E 
WET EE # 3 E ETT Ef?EE 5 RT fE%E 
EtT pT%E PTEET^Ef f f?W E EEE 

5 tT% El% * 3 % 5 "Ve p.Ai ImI Ek ERf 
% Irte Jr e^stte' e^ | i ?ee pet 

Eil TETEfET TEET Et fEEtfTE eT 

Ef | I 

(jpEEo 5. 5 0 ) 


See. 3(iijJ 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


1 


2 


3 


4 


4685 


32. IS : 5858 (*TFT l)-1970 3ET- 

TRt IT YTTcET spmfoirf 

% TTfETT TTEpff YY fYfYfr?- 

ktft 1 wsrftpmft tft i 

33- IS : 5865-1970 EffTTTm YYt 
pnrfVrr % 3jjff YY petty YY 
rrf?Yf YY YrfwYs I 


34. IS : 5870-1970 TlYY fr^Yf if 

vYYcrY tEitYY % ftrY YYY i 


35. IS ; 5878 (*THT 5)-1971 

% fajrk YY zYfr YfeTi bit 5 

YYYs tt 1 " 


36. IS: 5886-1970 TT^T TTlYY Y 

%ftfrET Yk felft-EC rr (YYY- 

TE?) YYBTTTTTtY YYTSYYqt I 

37. IS: 589 0-1970 jET% TFT % fY7 

TTPT Tif fYNT Y'TTIod TTT5T 
YYfYfYftS I 


38. IS : 5898-1970 TEH YYt rTFE 

fTN Hig YY TfTTT % faY 
^YY s'yt tfk tYt^Ytj 


BTTT if TNBlYf Yf TtfYT TTTtET 

TTTfYYf Y TTH STlY TFT TrafTTETY 
TTTTY Y TEtYutT wY ?tYt TTT YmeT 
fYY TT f I 

2 , 00 ) 

T?y tett if Tfermf nk 'TtFttt % sjYf 
ttY ttYY petty YY JxfYrY % fm ir 
siranr YYt bettY YY tbt ttYset qfj- 
'T^feiTr fYiYfYr YY Tf f 1 

(JEFT 5 , 50 ) 

T*T RETT Y TTY! f¥®Yf Y YYkY tYtety % 
fYY trtY ^rr% ttY YYYY Y farr 3 
BTT flTTYY STYLET ?tYt TEEfY YY 
fPTT TTY5T tI r YY TgfETt YwrfET YY Tf 
£ I 

(*JTT To 2.5 0) 

TT REEF 4 ^TTl Y YYYS apT RETT 5iY 

RRCYY fYYfrfeRl RTT fYlw YY Tf 
£ I Tff RETT if REIT RTlY Epf rYt 

tet YYYt frffjrt YY nf f i 

(JJTT To 2. 50) 

tt hfre ii jgr?r irrYf Y YtYYYr YYt fer- 
fBH rT (Yzetet) YY R1RT topY YY 
ETfYRt YY RY f I 

(iJFE To 5. 00) 

f H RTEF if fYfY Y YpEFS fq- Sj pjf ^ f^r 
rsrijTT tt tnnf bt% if ptjey twY 

BTOfY, fS-TWT, fTBW, WtT TTT- 
!RifI BTwrgY ^YwTT fn BT tY Tf | I 

(JJTT To 3. 50^ 

TT BT'TT if TTTT fT«T £ri^Yf qfY ?tYTT fT 
step fYYi sttYt bYtt Yt srr^ 
YYptt prqTi Yt Yet btp YYtt Mtr 

aTTT YfoTT Y JET4T wYY SET 

V3 sO 

grr m\ YYr mrf Y f«rTT Y 
fO-STlfm YY Tf | I BTTT Y TT ®?Y 
Ytr TKY YY TEErfYr TTTT YY 
Yrfes 1 1 i 

(^FT To 5. 00) 




4686 


[Part It— 


TIIE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 , 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


1 


2 


3 


4 


39 IS : 5914-1970 TTi ft ftfar 
'TfteE’T TafiFTT I 


faRfafer TTnff it sft nf wit 
ftfar TOfafa 

(1) IS: 582-1954 RRfa 

fk ffa 33 TT ft 

STmft Jfa rTTT RtSkT ft 73 - 

farf, fk 

( 2 ) IS : 1016 - 1959 kl 3 HT 
°fi*TiTT -q^-sf ft *1 I not Jfa fk^ 
TTfan ft qra:frrat i 


^7 7 T 77 T if 7 ft 77 TT f mff 7 T vftffp 
Tfr^TT 77 % ft TSfart ft T? f I 
Tfa 57 ET'TT Jr ft 7 ^ TftOT 73 fa 
fk 77J TKpft 7THT fafffk if fasft- 
ffa TftTTT 73 fT -Jr ftf TTK 7 T 7 T mr 
eft 77 fkrfa Jr foffa ft $t ^rT^r “irk i 

(iJR 70 15 . 50) I 


40 IS : 5944-1971 7777 % Tkff 

ft 7 rft Jr ttt m% tt% T-rrfr 
ft fafafc 1 | 

41 IS : 5 946-19 70 ^Tfa 77 % Tlf- 

TTTTft ft fVfcnfcT | 


42 IS : 5947-1970 Tfa%ft f |77 

fa^R f ft % fait kfa I 


43 IS : 5948-1970 TTTTTfwr ft 

nfaff ft ffftrrfcT i 


44 IS : 5959 (717 1 )- 1970 71 %t- 
57 Tj%T 7 ftfacT fk ft ft ft 
ffa 40 % (tt% < wf) f iff) 
fa 73 i % frft ft fafafk : 

7 T 7 1 1100 7 tR 77 ?ft 7 Ff- 
77 % ftR 7 T f fff 


W 7 T 77 it •Tift f TTTTt 7 % 5 TI 7 ii)£ 
f?T, 5777 , 5777 77 7 T 7 T, ^7 f% 77 , 

ffrfk Tiff f f>m 7 f raw fr i 

(iJeT To 5 . 00 ) I 

W trtt JtJtpj tt Trrm fk TFjTDTftq- 
TtrSflT 777 % faf 5 PJ 77 7773 «rfat 
«rr#cTTBTfqft % fanr Jr tfrafa jtmtffa 
ft H t 1 

(ij 37 *o 2 . 00 ) 1 

57 Tm f foRfafatf ffaR fWTft BIRT- 

faT WIT ffor THFT ffaff 77 % fat 

Jr ttpt Jr Tuf ^fa Tiff f fam Jf Tfsnf 

ft ni t I 

( 1 ) srftfaft Tfmrtt ; 

( 2 ) fiFTOTfarri 3 iRrJnft ; 

( 3 ) 3 TTT 3 TTT !Hlidl%ft ; fk 
( 4 ) SReT 3 FJ 7 Tl%fI I 
(tjR n° 5 . 50 ) I 

57 373 f Jf 713 J FT dTT'-fH fk TlkfT 
7 T 7 % % fa% TTWfWt fk 7 Tf% % 5 f t 

fft ft »|% Jf k 37 f far STJjTd TFTTTft 
enfaff f fwr Jr Tknf ftraffkr ft 
ft t 1 
(1577 no 2 . 50 ) 1 

ttfttt Jr ffsrft f ffnrr %k ffrcm 
t>if Jr 'Fit tt% tt% fk 

fk, fk fk wk TJ-fk TT% Tift, W 
?%tT ftfttcT fk ft ^t ft ffa TT% 
fWTT fk ffTT FTT TT% Ttft TOT 

% fsfat % fwr Jr Tkrrf fa%r $ i 

(iJCT To 5 . 50 ) I 


Src. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 18S4 


468 * 


( 1 ) ( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


45. IS : 5962-1970 WffsFT *FSfoOT 
fox? % oranr oft fffwfeo 


46. IS : 5973-1970 <J0T OFO- 
OTOt 0?t fofwfJo 


47. IS : 5982-1970 *EO 'sfVf^nff % 
qfTPT % f%f mjOO <^t!FT 
ooft %tft oft foforfe: 


48. IS : 5987-1970 (lOOO 

OflEO it STOTftnE fk-itfl 0 T%) 

% oft ftftr ofgoT 

49. IS ! 5990—1971 %0T A l ^Pl t TT 

% i 


50. IS : 5995-1971 OIWOOT firT 

01 % r -^FTT Tl fnfwfe 

51. IS : 5999-1971 flOO' not oft 

foPof^ ! 


52. IS : 6000—1971 ^TTO % f%% 
fw OOTlft oft fofwffcn 


53. IS : 6002-1971 OFWflT 9Tof 

% f%% 5rrrfT ®ff oft foftrfe 


W OTOOT Jr wffwOT OorfoOT WOt ^ % 

OFTST % fOOO Jf WfWTI 4M0t 
%% nor tCTstw oft TafooT fo%rf%r oft 
of t 

(j£TO 0° 2. 00) 

W OFFO Jr f 0 ^JOT OFOR-fit % foOO if 
srJrsnf fontfcr o>, of 3 i w orrit Jf 
fo, mr oft wrft 40 * 4410 , wft 

gf wr%t, OTTO TO faffFST jp#Pf Jf 

wot gOT orTorft srh iroft 00 ^ 

T^W gtOT | I 

(owr Oo 3 . 50 ) 

?0 OFFF Jr fooftT f 0 faftf STCT OOTC 0 ?t Of 

>7Tr57Fr o%t otot % fooo Jr uftmf 
srk oratft %f nor oftsro oft TTfoot 
fowffro oft of f 1 woo nfw ijoo 
¥0 % fofwr ftfanr Jr t^oto % f%rr 
TBTOfOO WiSFO frftffcr ttot $ 1 
(jjTO 0° 7. 00 ) 

W offor 0 1000 otwr i* tft/ ft tft % 
wfcro ft?onr 01 % floor 4 ? ^oto TERFiff 

mW ft Of f I 
(ijcO 0° 4. 00 ) 

w otto Jf owtfr sflr so orfwo ftof 
stout oft wot oortof % on mo mj 

t 1 

(ijto 0° 3. 00 ) 

W otot Jf orsfoom tiro nr^ Frrcff % fooo 
Jr mo oftr ofwt ft of f 1 
(3JW To 3 . 00 ) 

W otte Jfmifto fwcj m% 000 foot 
50 oft omrmo wf % fwf ornr Jr 
?rrJr 01 % fioo %ni % fwr Jr ott *rk 
o^rf foirtffn oft of f 1 
(JJIO Oo 3 . 00 ) 

wroroorJf ^rf Jr 000 ?n% or%t %?r 
if if 1 font % fooo Jf or? *fk wfwr<t 
ft of f 1 

(tj?0 0° 3. 00) 

W OFFF Jf OTOIFJOT OHf ^ WO^ OI%t 
?rot «ff % 1000 J" ott trtr wfwrj 
fowtfzn oft of f 1 

(JJJPT 0« 3, 00) 


IS : 499-1958 fonfo ^O %tft 
(cwifwo o%s) oft qrtero 
oarfnot 


fVlE GAZETTE OE INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


[Part II— 


4^88 

(0 ( 2 ) 


54. IS : 6003-1970^TTpTTT^I 

TiTte T faT %^'t TTT TT 

faftrffea: 


55. IS : 6013-1970 

STEf Tloft “pf^TTT frfJrfe 


56- IS: 6015-1970 tfwi 
fwinr* tPV frfirrfe 


57. IS: 6016-1970 *At 

TuTTq -TTTTNr % ?IT T'TwTt 

T5t 


58, IS : 6024-1970 TEET TTTff 
rwEtT % tt?T t! frfirfR: 


59. IS: 6025-1970 TEET TEEf # 
RrflTt % Tff Tt fafWfe 


60. IS : 6033-1971 ^Rf tA 

fTfurffer 


61. IS : 6037-1970 SET TT> I3TT JET 
Vt TEE NTTTTT? ^TEtET TP2 


*pt faftrfter 


(3) (4) 


ST TEES Jf 'J-f STT^TT if TOT Tiff 

TET TTT TR % fTrr?<T, fE?Tr| 

*At T^STT TRrsff SEteTrrr fTTlfel T?f 
Tf £ I 

So 4. 00) 

ST 0 ECS if TirffTf if TIT 541^ TTrff 
Tfvpff% fTTT t TRCflT.t ff pf f | 
TT tEeR TH TTTEr TlT TTET, pEpTfl 
ifT Tfa BRHd if Em TEE | I 
(T* *o 5.50) 

st tees Jr tfmr fT??iwsR % (Vet Jr 

TT^TW'T TYs TEEff JEt TTT r RElT fI l Ef 

TsfErr fTTflEcr Ef t^ | i 
( 7 JRT ’jo 5 . oo) 

ST TEES Jr TT Tfmr TR TZT^ % d'-HK Tf 
Jr TTT 5TET T!% 12.5 firtfl TT1 % 
Hftrf^T TT'T % ^ TTT ffRiT % f^if 
tJtvm frf zn % farr J[ srJnTtt f i 

(ipr so 4 . oo) 

ST TT'EE T TTT TTTT Tlf TERT 9H WZlf 
% TT#f % faTT if mmt sflr RPT 
T^Esft NTRpJ fpETTf T T Tl pf | | 

3,50) 

?T HITT if TTT TTcTT TT TERf TT TRTff 
ISf if <TT T'jff T?f TOT if oRj% TETf 
TlWf TffR TET, TTT TT Rtf fTtrffVR 

Trt Tf t I 

(ijRr fjo 3. 5 0) I 

TT TTTT Jf TTRh % f’TTT Jf ?pf>iT|T iffr 

TTTTf Jpl TTT TfRi T Til TjfcRt fTfff- 
fTcl Tt ’ll | I 
(j^RT T , o 3. 50) 

HTTT if TtT J qfTrTr Jf TDT ’ITT TRff 
Tfrf T?f ^TT Jl% Jf T^TT ’TTTT shTTET- 
TTEtET % fTTT if ETwT TlT^ff 
JfT TTr TTfOT €t T3f TTf fTTifRl 
Tf f I 

(JJTT So 3. 50) 

^ TTTTT Jf TET Tf ®PT %T % T*ff% % 
fTTT if ?mpT qts TTTTfr tt corr 
TfRTT Tf TSfTTt fTNlfRl T 1 L Tf f | 
(iJRlSo 3. 50) 


62- IS : 6038-1970 TIT # OTT 
% tVTtt Tff fTftrfe 



kc. 3(iii3 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29, 1894 


4689 


( 1 ) 


(2) 


( 3 ) 


(4)' 


63. IS : 6039-1970 7FTT RHRn? = 
zpfFftR hr rIRh # fVfiTTfca 


64. IS : 6050-1971 HR HHTRi TTfT 

*5 

% HHIR RTR HTH, TRR HH% 

tit rerihi hr-rh itwt 


65. IS : 6053 (HTH l)-1970 o}HT 
Riftn % fRR hth % f t7 

fHfnfe VTFT 1 THRU TT2R Hi 


66 . IS : 6054-1970 HHfcRH HR? 1 
47 


67- IS : 6057-1970 TT 

rrr rot?! Thr'i ft fqfHfe 


68 . IS : 6061 ('TFT 1 )- 1971 

sfk hhih HI hi r hH rTh 
wfr % fRHf°r ft frfifr RfHRr 

HTH 1 fffc f HftHRT VR1R 

ftff hi# 


69. IS .-6079-1 971 

% HHT HTSHR ft fRfHfFT 


HR H 1 RH 7 HTHT HTHHRR ^ofRrtHr «T?r 
h77h %- R rRott R 7 h 
RHt ht7to 47 vzfW fimlf+n 47 
nf £ 1 

(^tr Ho 3 . so) 

HR ettt R htr rtR ht% nR 

34RT 6 " HRIR HtR HtR" R^proj. 

ftvfi % fim Jr hhrtr ^ srrTft RR 
T«JT rTto 47 T4 f*nr fkvff^r itf- 
1 1 4 hTth 
Tmrr m sfrr 
^S^rf %M^(Trr^|| 

(^jph Ho 4 . 00 ) 

HR HPT4? R % sqfi- nj iff *7 47 HTf 
^4RH fllR 

HTHRy %7 ft«JT rThrt 47 
ft^ffVcT 47 Hf $ I 
(’JlFTHo 3.50) 

WRTH4rR4RtRHT4HTi%f!FTHR (tThthJ 
fairif'Trr 47 nt | 1 
(HTH Ho 3 . 00 )’ 

HR El'T'li if TOTfOl % fRR 

RH-TfHfRzrH HT H3TR HI? fTW qftft 
HTTf % fW if HH 8 TTR TwffRT 47 ^ 
t 1 HR^r WTH27 4HHf % %7 HH4H 
R5T TTr^wr Tf oRV mrfRHT four 
mr | 1 

(’JTR Ho 2. 50) 

HHHTH 41 R 3 R 3 R HHfRH R3% fftz 
*mr 3 # mfm fftz ft tfmi f)r 
Rife % «rtt ftft 7 ?r7 htH 
'TFlf 5 T)h OT1 % fTRfT 47 lifftT ft Tf 
^ I HR mf TO ml f 3JTT 
47 3T TTT ft rrf ? >ffr | , 
(^r-R Ho 4 , 00 ) 

HR RTOHl R TRRt HRTTR ^7 iREipff 
Hr fTRR 7 R^STTtr 57 nf f | 

(’JRT Ho 2 . 00 ) 


4690 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 , 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[Part II— 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


70 . IS : 6093-1 971 frtfcl fair 
TITTT # HJflf sfh? 

tit fTf!# W\ TJfd I 


71 . IS : 6101—1971 'titfrrt 

«n% TTf # Mtrrfe i 


72 . IS : 6116 -I 971 <tftrf^rpPWT^f? 
# faffff'e 1 


W FTrRi 5r fartr #?r fr% f^r % wr 

*RT«ff & '*Tt fWf STTft % fair if 

Tr^TT^fr, 'TTfiTT, SRT# TUlf froffTTT 
# Tjftl ^TIT #T 
TRRff Mu ftraffn # *i£ 1 1 
(jpr 3.50) 1 

VT ifPTT Sr 2 , 5 Sr 10 fa#. aqTT cT^FT % 

it fat mfa tit % faqm Sr 
wtwif # tt£ f i 
(ij?ir 5. 00) 1 

tttt Sr ^rtrr faffawr Sf ttfa# % shfa 
% wi *n S' a \ # jfaEfafr farr Sr er# 
afV t 1 
(jjeT ^0 3.00) 


tt ^TOffa TRvf # TfcTm TT-fafa totc tt«tt 9 srfrjm^ stot mr ft?#- 1 wfc mmr ’mfanrf ( l ) 
TPSHT ^TTRr^TT iffa TTT uriTJT, TpKTTT ^- 1 ( 2 ) fafa%H: S# ftfSsT Tf# Wl, tT#T -9 (3) 434 TTIR 
TT^Ttfa ^<- 7 , ( 4 ) 5 ,#t#tprfatfa, WPT 1 T- 13 , ( 5 ) 5 - 9 - 20 l/ 2 ,P*mW#Sm- ^fWS- 1 , ( 6 ) 117 / 418 - 
jft Tffor TTT, #1(7) 5 4 3 RTT 'fjtf tfa, T 3 TT -2 arfaft 'ST TT# f I 

[tfo #o qTo ffo/13 : 2] 

<7T° #° MlTT«fT, 

TT T^lfatw I 


INDIAN STANDARDS INSTITUTION 

New Delhi, the nth Sept. 1972 

S.o. 3319. — In exercise of the powers conferred on me under sub-regulation (4) of regulation 3 of the Indian Standards Institution 

i Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955, as amended from time to time, modifications to the provisions of 18:2073-1970 end 
S: 4432-1967, details of which are mentioned in the Schedule given hereafter, have tentatively beer n rde with a vitw ro 
expediting the use of the Standard Mark, without in any way affecting the quality of goods covered by the relevant standards. 
This notification shall come into force with immediate effect: 


The Schedule 

SI. 

No. 

No. and Title of Indian Standard, the Provi- 
sions of which have been Modified 

Number(s) of the Existing 
Clauses Affected 

Particulars of the Modifications made to the 
Provisions 

I 

2 

3 

4 


1 IS: 2073-1970 Specification for carbon steel Clauses 1.1, 5.1, 11,2 and Table Two new steels, namely, Ci5Mn75 and 

black bars for production of machined parts 1 and 5 C25Mn7 5 have been included in the 

for general engineering purposes specification. 

(first revision) 

2 IS 4432-1967 Specification for case hardening Tables 1, 3, 4 and Clause 7,1 A new steel, namely, Ci5Mn75 has been 

steels included in the specification. 


[No, 


CMD/13 ; 4 


1 




Sec. 3Hu3 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAr OCTOBER 21,' 1972/ASWNA 29 , 1834 4691 


■»TP?fFT 7177? fp^TT 
7f frwTf, 11 fTTHX 19 72 

CT^O sfr 0 3319—777 777 7X ^fwtfSTcT 71X3%! TITT 1 777T (77T77 f 77 ?j f7i777 1935 % f7f777 3 % 37- 
fffTTJT ( 4 ) % 5TsftiT SrFT5rf%Jff 3? 7HJT ~ 7X TO ^13 7|X 77 T 7 % frit if 7f7 7T7 % T ?37 % IS ' 2073-19 70 
if\v IS ' 4432- 1907 % 1777T 7 f?7% 717 TTfTl 7 f> 4 TT xrrr * ^5 qfx777 7 X ^14 % 757 if f^r xpT | | ^ 

qfX777T % TcTTRpf 71X717 7T7T % SP-TOT HT^T %f f%X7 7X %Tf 7717 Tff 7f 73 ^rPcTg^HT 3X71 7T7 ft TrTTl | 

’S «\ 


717 xttft TTFgf '-ft {77x7 ttttji if Pr? |tr tP-tth 77 

jfstt ttt't ir 37737 |?rr f Pttxx 


1 


IS: 2073-19 70 71777^3^37X14731 

% Pxcf 737737 J3ff % 3?Tr77 % fax 
7777 7773 %f TTHf Taff %1 fTfsife 

(t^tt jTXfsm) 

Is : 4432-1967 737 3131X47X1 ^773 

%f faftlfe 


if? 1. 1,5. 1, 11.2 
TIXT! 1 ?ftX 5 


TT’XTT 1,3,4, SlfX ?f? 
7.1 


sfix f 3 f^ftracx if ff 7lTfFn3 t% Cll5 
Mn75 3fx GI 25 Mn75 xrrfirx 

ffnr Tpr | 1 

77 farixrffex if fnp rfifT ^13 Cl 1 5 
Mn 7 5 wrfiR f%3 T ttt t ; 


[30 3 fo 1530 ft/ 1 3:4] 


New Delhi the 29 th September 1972 

S O. 3320.— In exercise ol the powers conferred on me under sub-regulation (4) of regulation 3 of the India® Standards Iostitutioo 
(Certification Marks ,t Regulations 1965, as amended from tim to tim .modifications to the provisions of IS : 1875-1971 & IS : 
2004 — 1970, details of which are mentioned in the Schedule given hereafter, have tentatively been made with a view to expediting 
the use of the Standard Mark without in any way affecting the quality of goods covered by the relevent standards. This notification shall 
come into force with effect from 1 October 1972 


The Schedule 


SI. 

No. 

No. and Title of Indian Standard 
the Provisions of which have been 
Modified. 

Numbers’) of the Existing 

Clauses Affected 

Particulars of the Modifications made to the Provisions 

(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

I. 

IS : 1875-1971 Specification for 
carbon steel billets, blooms, slabs 
and bars for forgings 
( Third revision') 

Clauses 1. i, 8.2, 8.2 2; 

Tables i& 2 and Fig. x 

Two new steels, namely CisMnys and C25Mn75 
have been included in the specification. 

2. 

IS :2004 — 1970 Specification for 
carbon steel for gingsfor general 
engineering purposes (first revision ) 

Clause 1. 1, Tables i& 2 and Fig, 
1 

Two new steels, namely, Ci5Mn75 and CasMim 
have been included in the specification. 


[No. CMD/13 : 4] 

S. K. SEN, 
Director General. 


7f fe?<fr, 29 fXcfTTX, 1972 

irtToVlo 3320. — 7X7-777 7X 73frflI3 77X317 7T7T 77^7 (77177 ffp777 19 55 % f?f777 3 % 

^qpc(p 347 ( 4 ) % srafff 773 7lf733T % 7T3TX 7X TTTTT 77777 7|X 7777 % 777 if 7p7 777 % 7X57 *f IS : 
1875-1971 xffX IS : 2004-1970 % 37777 if f77 % 7%% 777;77 if f ?7 7ir | , 735 7^737 7Xf4T7 % 77 if 


4692 THE GAZETTE OP INDIA: OCTOBER 21. 1972/ASVINA 29, i&94 [Part H— 


fanj ipr t 1 T4 qfcrfrft % hftP-i frrrr $ spfrr itr ^ Ptr <f ntf thtt 4 ft t^jtt 

1 WTf, 1 9 72 % HPT ift HFlTft : 






44 VfPTffa 44TT iff TO 4> 4T4T4 TWTT -TT ffTTO 74RTT 4 ftr r tft qfnufvff PtT^H 

4 WT TjfWH (VrT% EWHff 4 -FTTfrtTT 

5*tt $ 


1 IS : 1875-1971 ntfT ^ft^f % 

fHP 4444 ^PTRT % PsHT, 
f4P?H4t 4 *h 

r^fxife- (<ft4TT g-ffoiR ) 

2 IS : 2004-1970 4T4FT ^ft-' 

Pratt wff fVcr - 
fHTRT 4>t 4<ft *i«J i 1 hT 4f 
forftufe: (<Tprr 54^wr ) 


HR 1,1, 8.2, 8.2.2; 4! J frrar 
i ?At 2# srrjffr 1 


hr 1 . 1 , Hirfwr 1 *ftr 24 'fr 
srrfPr 1 


m fafafcv if ft 4^ T41T4 44 C 1 * 

Mn 7 5 h> C 2 5 Ain 7 5 

1 3TTf4H pRTT 4TT S I 

W ftrfsrfe Sr ft 4 ^ ^nr #■ C i 
M 11 75’firkC 25 Mn75 htPtth 
fo* »n? | 1 


[ffo lft° 44° ft°/l 3:4] 
1 T 4 o % o Sr, Tr^TPrfxw 1 


PRINTED by THU GENERAL MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, MINTO ROAD. 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BV THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1972 



44 ] 
No. 44] 


Separate paging Is given to this Part In order that it may be flW as a separate compilation 

rbt II — 3 — s'etjt (ii) 

FART II — Section 3 — Subjection (H) 

(w tiMim ftt sfajir) hitn prwmr ft dk (*ro JRiron til pjtf < k< ) 

HTfsnrrtrjf tttt <srnft fft& nq farfa* wt^t tftr 1 

Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Government of India 
(other than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central Authorities (other than the 
Administration of Union Territories.) 


iV * 1 1 r^r*> " 

r^psfV, crfVnmc, 28 , i 972 /«pTf?w e, 1894 • ■ ' 

NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1972/KARTIKA 6, 1894 


ih fwr «5 ihwr tt urrcft $ famft fft ^ toi? ? ty>'wd ft w 3 t<stt an «ft » 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND REHABILITATION 
(Department of Labour and Employment) 

N?u> Delhi, the 25 th August 1972 

SO. 3»t. — The following proposals made by the Central Government in exerc ; se of the powers conferred by clause (a) 
of sub-section (1) of section 3 read with clause (iif) of sub-section (1) of section 4 of the minimum Wages Act, 
1948 (x of 1948'! for revising the minimum rates of wages as specified in column2ofthc Schedule, annexed hereto, payable to the 
categories of employees employed in the employment in Agriculture, Specified in the corresponding entries In column 1 of the said 
schedule, are hereby published, as required by clause ( b ) of sub-seciion (1) of section s of the said Act for information of all persons 
likelyto be affected there by and notice is hereby given that the said proposals shall be taken into consideration on or after the expiry of 
three mouths from the date of publication of this notification in the Official Gazette. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with respect to the said proposals before the period spe- 
cified above will be considered by the Central Government. 

Schedule 


Categories of employees . 


All Inclusive minimum rates of wages’per day. 
Area A Area Bi Area' B2 Area C Area D 


Unskilled : 

(1) Beldar (Male/Female) ; (2) Calf Boy ;(3) Cattleman ; 
(4') Chowkidar ; (5) Cleaner; (6) Cleaner (Motor, Shed; 
Tractor ; Cattle Yard M.T.) ; (7) Col- 
lecting Loose fodder ; (8) Dhobi ; (9)Dalry Coolies; 


4693 




