REGISTERED NO, D . 22.9 


- 


-- 


The Gazette Ink of Endia 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 36 ] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 5 , 1953 


S 


. 


NOTICE 


The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 
29th August 1953 


Issue 
No. 


No. and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


218 


S . R . O . 1617 . dated the 
Toth August 1953 . 


Election Com - Election Petition No. 174 of 1952. 
mission , India . 


219 


S . R . O . 1618 , dated the 
24th August 1953 . 


Ministry of Appointment of a date on which certain 
Commerce and provision of the Forward Contracts 
Industry . (Regulation ) Act , 1952 , shall come into 

forcc . 


220 


S . R . O . 1619, dated the 
13th August 1953 . 


Election Com - | Election Petition No. 192 of 1952 . 
mission , India . 


221 


Ditto . 


Election Petition No. 124 of 1952 . 


S . R . O . 1620 , dated the 
14th August 1953 , 


Copics of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on indent to the 
Manager of Publications, Civil Lines , Delhi. Indents should be submittcd so as to reach the 
Manager within ten days of the date of issue of these Gazeites . 


PART ( - Section 3 
Statutory Rules and Orders issued by the Ministries of the Government 

of India ( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and Central Authorities 
( other than the Chief Commissioners ) . 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 

New Delhi, the 25th August, 1953 
S . R . O . 1647. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 20 of the Repre 
sentation of the People Act, 1951 (XLIII of 1951 ) , as modified by the Representa 
tion of the People (Application to Part C States ) Order , 1951, the Election Com 
mission , in consultation with the Chief Commissioner of Ajmer, hereby makes the 

( 1361 ) 


1362 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 5, 1953 


[ PART II - SEC . 3 


following amendment in its notification No. 62 / 17 /51 -Elec .II ( 2 ) , dated the 22nd 
November , 1951, namely : - - 

" Amendment 
In the Table appended to the said notification , for the existing entries relating 
to Bhinai and Deolia Kalan constituencies, the following entries shall be substi 
tuted : 


Blinai 

Sub Divisional O Micor, 

Kekri 
Deolia Kalun 

Do . 

[No. 155 / 17 / 53 - ( 2 ) / 1322. ] 
New Delhi, the 27th August, 1953 


S . R . O . 1648 . - In pursuance of sub - rule ( 5 ) of rule 114 of the Representation 
of the People (Conduct of Elections and Election Petitions) Rules , 1951, the 
name of the person shown in column 1 of the Schedule below who having been 
nominated as a candidate for bye - clection to the House of the People from the 
constituency specified in column 2 thereof and having appointed himself to 
be his election agent at the said bye- election , has, in accordance with the decision 
given by the Election Commission under sub - rule ( 4 ) of the said rule , failed 
to lodge the return of election expenses within the time and in the manner re 
quired and has thereby incurred the disqualifications under clause ( c ) of section , 
7 and section 143 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (XLIII of 1951 ) , 
is hereby published : 


SCHEDULE 


Name of the Candidato 


Name of constituency 


Shri Maldhi Reddy 

Kurnool 

INU. MD -P /53 (3) BYE / 1582 ] 
New Delhi, the 28th August , 1953 
S .R . O . 1649. - It is hereby notified for general information that the disqualifica 
tions under clause ( c ) of section 7 and section 143 of the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951 (XLIII of 1951 ) , incurred by the person whose name and address 
are given below , as notificd under notification No. MP - P /52 ( 4 ) , dated the 12th 
April, 1952, have been removed by the Election Commission in exercise of the 
powers conferred on it by the said clause and section 144 of the said Act res 
pectively : 
Shri Sheo Shanker Sahai Verma, Shanti Kutir , Mungeli , District Bllaspur , 

[ No. MP - P /52 ( 54 ) / 1532 .] 


S .R . O , 1650, -- It is hereby notified for general information that the disquallf 
cations under clausc ( c ) of section 7 and section 143 of the Representation of 
the People Act , 1951 (XLIII of 1951) , incurred by the persons whose names and 
addresses are given below , as notified under notification No. RN - P / 52723 ) , date 
the 8th October, 1952 , have been removed by the Election Commission in exercis 
of the powers conferred on it by the said clause and section 144 of the said Acu 
respectively 

Shri Sohan Mal Golecha , Johri Bazar, Jaipur City . 
Shri Duleh Singh , C / o Shri Sohan Mal Golccha , Johri Bazar , Jaipur City . 

[ No. RN -P / 52 (1) BYE / 1588. 1 

By Order, 
P . N . SHINGHAL Secy . 


PART II - Sec 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 5 , 1953 


1363 


= 


= = 


= 


= 


= 


= 


ES 


MINISTRY OF LAW 

New Delhi, the 1st September 1953 
S . R . O . 1651 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Rule 1 of Order XXVII 
In the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 (Act V of 1908 ) and in 
supersession of the notification of the Government of India , in the Ministry of Law 
No. S . R . O . 512 , dated the 9th September 1950 , the Central Government hereby 
appoints 
( i) the officers specified in the schedule annexed hereto as persons by whom 

plaints and written statements in suits in any court of civil jurisdiction 

by or against the Central Government shall be signed ; 
(ii) those of the officers referred to in sub - clause (i) who are acquainted 

with the facts of the case , as persons by whom such plaints and written 
statements shall be verified . 

SCHEDULE 
I. General, 

Any Secretary , Additional Secretary , Joint Secretary , Deputy Secretary, Under 
Secretary or Assistant Secretary to the Government of India . 

Military Secretary to the President. 
Deputy Military Secretary to the President. 

Secretary , Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Council of States 
Secretariat. 
II, Ministry of Commerce and Industry , 

Director General of Commercial Intelligence and Statisticts , Calcutta . 
Controller of Patents and Designs. 
Chief Controller of Imports and Exports , New Delhi, 
Iron and Steel Controller , 
Deputy Iron and Steel Controllers . 
Assistant Iron and Steel Controllers (Grade I). 

Director of Exhibitions, New Delhi. 
III. Ministry of Communications, 

Civil Aviation Department 
Aerodrome Oflicers or Assistant Aerodrome Officers - in - charge of Aerodromes. 
" The Director, Inspection Office , Southern Area, Bangalore. 

Indian Meteorological Department 
Deputy Directors General. 
Directors, Regional Meteorological Centres. 
Director , Agricultural Meteorology , 
Director , Colaba and Alibag Observatories , Colaba, Bombay , 
Director, Solar Physics Observatory , Kodaikanal. 

Government of India Overseas Communications Service 
General Manager . 
Assistant General Manager , 
Chief Enginecr . 
Director . 
General Traffic Manager . 
Traffic Manager . 
Engineers -in - Charge . 

Indian Posts and Telegraphs Department 
Ali Gazetted Officers. 
IV . Ministry of Defence . 

Director Gencral, Armed Forces Medical Services. 
Chief Administrative Officer, 


1364 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 5 , 1953 


[ PART II - SEC. 8 


Scientific Adviser to the Ministry of Defence . 
Director , Military Lands and Cantonments. 
Deputy Director , Military Lands and Cantonments . 
Military Estates Officer . 

Directorate of Ordnance Factories, 
Director General, Ordnance Factories . 
Deputy Director General, Ordnance Factories . 
Assistant Director General, Ordnance Factories. 
Superintendent or Officer - in - charge of Ordnance and Clothing Factories. 


Army 
Commander , Corps . 
Principal Staff Officers , Heads of Branches or Directors at Army Headquarters . 
Chairman , Board of Administration , Canteen Stores Department ( India ) . 
Commander , Area . 
Commander , Communication Zone . 
Commander , Division . 
Commander , Independent Brigade Group . 
Commander , Independent Sub - Area . 
Commander, Sub -Area . 
Commander , Brigade. 
Commander , Brigade Area . 
Officer Commanding, Station . 
Omcer Commanding , Unit Establishment. 
Director , Territorial Army. 
Chief Engineers . 
Deputy Chief Engineers. 
Commander , Works Engineers (CWE ) . 
Staff Officers, Corps of Engineers I or II. 
Deputy Commander , Works Engineers ( DCWE) . 
Assistant Commander , Works Engineers . 
Senior Barrack /Stores Officers . 
Garrison Engineers . 
Officer Commanding, Engineer Stores Depots , 
Director , Ministry of Defence Security Corps . 
Director of Ordnance Services . 
Director of Mechanical Engineering . 
Director of Technical Development. 

Chief Superintendents or Superintendents of Development, Technical Develop 
ment Establishments . 

Inspector or Assistant Inspectors- in -Charge of Inspection Areas. 
Officer - in -Charge , Clothing Inspection Depot, Shahjahanpur , 

Indian Navy 
Chief of Naval Staff and Commander - in - Chief, Indian Navy . 
Deputy Commander - in -Chief and Chief of Staff , Indian Navy . 
Commodore - in - Charge, Bombay . 
Commodorc - in -Charge, Cochin . 
Naval Officer - in -Charge. 
Captain Superintendent of the Dockyard . 
Resident Naval Officers , 
Commanding Officers of Indian Ships or Naval Shore Establishments. 


PART II - SEÇ. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 5 , 1953 

1365 

- - - Z 
Indian Air Force 
Chief of the Air Staff and Commander - in - Chief, Indian Air Force. 
Deputy Chicf of Air Staff. 
Air Officer - in - Charge of Personnel and Organisation . 
Air Oficer -in - Charge, Technical and Equipment Services . 
Air or Other Onicer Commanding, Command. 
Officer Commanding, Wing, 
Omcer Commanding, Station . 

Officer Commanding, Squadron or other Unit . 
V . Ministry of Education , 

Director of Archives, New Delhi. 
Librarian , National Library , Calcutta , 
Principal, Delhi Polytechnic , Delhi. 
Director General of Archaeology in India . 
Deputy Director General of Archaeology in India . 
Superintendents, Archaeological Department. 
Director, Department of Anthropology . 
The Principal, Central Institute of Education , Delhi. 

The Director, Indian Institute of Technology , Kharagpur . 
VI. Ministry of Finance, 

Masters , India Government Mints, Bombay and Alipore (Calcutta ) . 
Assay Master and Superintendent, Silver Refinery Project, Calcutta . 
Master, India Security Press , Nasik Road . 
Managers of Public Debt Ofices at Calcutta , Bombay , Madras and Delhi. 
Governor , Reserve Bank of India . 

Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer , Hirakud Prozent Samhalnur , 
Orissa . 

Controller of Insurance , Simla . 
Chief Director , National Sample Survey. 
Assistant Directors, National Sample Survey . 

Indian Audit and Accounts Department 
Comptroller and Auditor General of India . 
Deputy Comptroller and Auditor General of India . 
Additional Deputy Comptroller and Auditor General (Headquarters ) . 
Additional Deputy Comptroller and Auditor General (Report) . 
Controller of Commercial Accounts. 
Accountants General. 
Comptrollers, 
Chief Auditors of Indian Railways. 
Director of Railway Audit. 
Director of Audit, Defence Services . 
Controller of Coal Accounts . 
Deputy Accountants General, Posts and Telegraphs. 
Chief Auditor, Damodur Valley Corporation and Sindri Projects . 

Defence Accounts Department 
Controller General of Defence Accounts. 
Deputy Controller General of Defence Accounts . 
All Controllers or Joint Controllers of Defence Accounts. 

Revenue Division 
All Commissioners of Income-tax . 
All Collectors of Customs. 


1366 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 5 , 1953 


( PART II - SEC, S 


Fas 


All Collectors of Central Excise. 

Narcotics Commissioner . 
VII. Ministry of Food and Agriculture, 

Agriculture Wing 
Vice -President, Indian Council of Agricultural Research , New Delhi. 
Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of India . 
Director, Institute of Sugar Technology , Kanpur . 
Director , Indian Agricultural Research Institute , New Delhi. 
Director , Central Potato Research Institute , Patna . 
Director , Indian Veterinary Rescarch Instituto Mukteswar / Izatnagar . 
Director , Dairy Research Institute , Bangalore . 
Dairy Husbandry Officer, Indian Dairy Research Institute, Bangalore . 
President, Forest Research Institute and Colleges , Dehra Dun . 
Plant Protection Adviser to the Government of India . 
Director , Locust Control, India . 
Chairman or Deputy Chairman , Central Tractor Organisation , New Delhi 
Director, Central Rice Research Institute , Cuttack , 
Director, Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore, 
Superintendent , Cattle- cum -Dalry Farm , Karnal. 

Food Wing 
Director General, Food , Deputy Director General, Food or Regional Directors 
(Food ) . 

Chief Director of Purchase or a Director of Purchase or a Deputy Director of 
Purchase. 
VIII. Ministry of Health , 

Deputy Director General of Health Services. 
Assistant Director General of Health Services ( Stores ) . 

Deputy Assistant Director General (Medical Stores ) , Government Medical 
Store Depots , Madras , Bombay and Calcutta . 

Manager , Government Medical Store Depot, Karnal. 
Principal, College of Nursing, New Delhi. 
Director, Malaria Institute of India , Delhi. 
Director, Central Research Institute, Kasauli . 
Serologist and Chemical Examiner to the Government of India , Calcutta . 
Civil Surgeon , Simla . 
Director, Central Drugs Laboratory , Calcutta . 
Assistant Drugs Controller ( India ) , Bombay , Calcutta and Madras. 
Director , All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health , Calcutta . 
Port Health Officers , Madras, Bombay , Calcutta , Cochin and Vizagapatam . 

Airport Health Officer, Bombay Airport ( Santa Cruz), Bombay ; Calcutta 
Airport ( Dum Dum ) , Calcutta ; Palam , Delhi and Tiruchirapalli. 

Director, B . C .G . Vaccine Laboratory , Guindy , Madras. 
Superintendent, Lady Reading Health School, Delhi. 

Ram Chandra Lohia Infant Welfare Centre , Delhi. 
IX . Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, 

Principal Information Officer . 
Director, Publications Division , 
Director General, All India Radio . 
Station Directors , All India Radio . 
Chief Producer (Documentaries ), Films Division , Bombay. 
Regional Ofcers, Central Board of Film Censors, Bombay , Calcutta and Madras. 


PART II — Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 5 , 1953 


1367 


. . 


= 


= 


= 


= 


= 


= 


= 


= = 


= 


= 


= 


= 


X , Ministry of Irrigation and Power . 

Central Water and Power Commission 
Chairman . 
Members (Administration ) . 
Chief Engineer , Hirakud Dam Project. 
Directors . 
Assistant Consulting Engineer . 
Superintending Engineers . 
Secretary . 
Personal Assistant to Chief Engineer . 
Deputy Directors . 

Executive Engincers. 
XI. Ministry of Labour . 

Chief Labour Commissioner ( Central ) , New Delhi. 
Chief Adviser, Factories , New Delhi, 
Controller of Emigrant Labour, Shillong. 
Coal Mines Welfare Commissioner, Dhanbad . 
Regional Directors of Resettlement and Employment. 
Chief Inspector of Mines in India , Dhanbad . 
Director, Labour Bureau , Simla . 
Chairman , Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta and Dhanbad . 
Central Provident Fund Commissioner , New Delhi. 
Regional Provident Fund Commissioners. 

Coal Mines Provident Fund Commissioner , Dhanbad . 
XII. Ministry of Law . 

Registrar, Income- tax Appellate Tribunal, Bombay . 
XIII, Ministry of Natural Resources and Scientific Research . 

Director, Zoological Survey of India , Calcutta . 
Surveyor General of India . 
Deputy Surveyor General, Survey of India . 
Directors , Survey of India . 
Deputy Directors, Survey of Indla . 
Superintending Surveyors, Survey of India . 
Curator, Industrial Section of the Indian Museum , Calcutta . 
Director , Geological Survey of India , Calcutta . 
Director , Indian Bureau of Mines , New Delhi. 

Principal, Indian School of Mines and Applied Geology , Dhanbad . 
XIV , Ministry of Production , 

Coal Commissioner. 
Superintendent, National Instruments Factory . 
Salt Commissioner . 
Deputy Salt Commissioners, Madras, Bombay and Headquarters. 
General Manager , Rajputana Salt Sources Division , Sambhar Lake. 

Assistant Salt Commissioner , Calcutta . 
XV . Ministry of Rehabilitation . 

The Custodian General of Evacuee Property , New Delhi. 
The Custodian of Evacuee Property , Delhi. 

The Custodian of Evacuee Property, Ajmer . 
XVI, Ministry of States. 

Counsellor , Rajasthan . 
Counsellor, Patiala and East Punjab States Union . 
Counsellor, Hyderabad. 


1368 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 5 , 1953 [ PART II — Sec. 3 
= = = 

= = 
XVII. Ministry of Transport , 

Administrative Officer , Cochin Harbour . 
Development Commissioner , Kandla . 
Director General of Shipping, Bombay . 
Principal Officer , Mercantile Marine Department, Bombay District, Bombay . 
Principal Officer , Mercantile Marine Department, Madras District , Madras. 
Principal Officer, Mercantile Marine Department, Calcutta District, Calcutta . 
Captain Superintendent, Training Ship " Dufferin " , Bombay . 
Captain Superintendent, Training Ship " Bhadra " , Calcutta . 
Captain Superintendent, Training Ship "Mekhla " Vizagapatam . 
Director, Marine Engineering Training , Calcutta . 
Principal, Nautical and Engineering College , Bombay . 
Superintendents of Lighthouses, Bombay / Calcutta /Madras . 

Deputy Superintendent of Lighthouses, Saurashtra - Kutch , Jamnagar. 
XVIII. Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply . 

Chicf Inspector of Explosives in India , New Delhi. 
Estate Officer, New Delhi. 
Estate Manager at Bombay or Calcutta . 

Central Public Works Department 
Chieť Engineers. 
Administrative Officer . 
Superintending Engineers . 
All Divisional Omccrs. 
All Electrical Engincers . 
Superintendent, Horticultural Operations. 

Stationery and Printing 
Controller of Printing and Stationery , India , New Delhi. 
Deputy Controller, Stationery, Calcutta . 

Government of India Presses 
Managers , Government of India Presscs, New Delhi, Simla and Calcutta . 
Managers, Government of India Forms Presses, Calcutta and Aligarh . 

Government of India Publications Branch 
Manager of Publications , Delhi, 

Directorate General, Supplies and Disposals 
Director General, Supplies und Disposals. 
Deputy Directors General, Supplies and / or Disposals . 

Directors of Supplies and / or Disposals , whether posted at Headquarters or in 
any of the regional offices. 

Deputy Directors of Supplies and / or Disposals, whether posted at Headquarters 
or in any of the regional offices. 

Assistant Directors of Supplies and / or Disposals, whether posted at Head 
quarters or in any of the regional offices . 

Director of Administration and Co - ordination . 
Deputy Director of Administration . 
Deputy Director of Co - ordination . 
Director, Government Test House , Alipore, Calcutta . 
Deputy Director , Government Test House, Alipore , Calcutta . 

Assistant Director ( Administration ) whether posted in Bombay , Calcutta or 
Madras or of the Government Test House , Alipore , Calcutta . 
XIX . Cabinet Secretariat. 

Joint Director (Co -ordination ) in the Central Statistical Organisation . 


Paint II — SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 5, 1953 


1369 


XX . Prime Minister s Secretariat. 

Principal Private Secretary to the Prime Minister . 
XXI, Department of Parliamentary Affairs . 

Secretary , Department of Parliamentary Affairs . 
XXII. District Magistrates and Deputy Commissioners in West Bengal. 
XXIII. The Collector of Bombay . 
XXIV . The Secretary to the Chief Commissioner , Andaman and Nicobar Islands . 
XXV. The Administrator , Chandernagore. 

[No. F . 30 - II ( 1 ) /52 - L .] 
S . R . O . 1652. - In pursuance of the provisions of Rule 2 of Order XXVII In the 
First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 ( Act 7 of 1908 ) , the Central 
Government hereby authorises the officers specified in the Schedule annexed to 
the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Law No. S . R . O . 1651, 
dated the 1st September , 1953 , to act for that Government in respect of any 
judicial proceeding . 

[No, F . 30- 11 (2) /52-L .) 
B . G . MURDESHWAR, Joint Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 1st September, 1953. 
S . R . O . 1653. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 
309 of the Constitution , read with articles 313 and 372 thereof, and paragraph 19 
of the Adaptation of Laws Order , 1950 , the President hereby directs that the 
following further amendment shall be made in the rules publishid with the notifl 
cation of the Government of India in the late Home Department, No F . 9 - 19 / 30 - Ests ., 
dated the 27th February 1932, namely : 
" In the Schedule to the said Rules, under the heading Finance Department , 

sub -head Opium Department , cntry Class III Posts — ( ii ) Ministerial , 
in Column 1 , between Superintendent and Head Clerks the words 
Deputy Superintendent shall be inserted ." 

[No. 7 / 25 /53 - Ests. ] 
S . P . MAHNA, Asstt . Secy . 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 27th August, 1953 
S . R . O . 1654. In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub -Section ( 2 ) of 
Section 24 of the Bengal Municipal Act , 1932 ( Bengal Act XV of 1932 ) as extended 
to Chandernagorc by the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of External Affairs No. 147 - Eur. I, dated the 1st April, 1953, the Central Govern 
ment hereby issues the following Order , namely ; 

ORDER 
For the purpose of first general election of Commissioners of the Municipality of 
Chandernagore under the Bengal Municipal Act, 1932 (Bengal Act XV of 1932 ) 
as extended to Chandcrnagore , wherein such election has not yet been held , the 
electoral rolls shall be published in Bengali language. 

[ D .4565 -Eur .I / 53. ] 
S . R . O . 1655 , - In exercise of the powers conferred by clauses ( b ) , ( e ) , ( g ) 
and ( h ) of section 44 of the Bengal Municipal Act, 1932 (Bengal Act XV of 1932 ) . 
as extended to Chandernagorc by the Notification of the Government of India , in 
the Ministry of External Affairs No . 147 - Eur.I , dated the 1st April, 1953, the Central 
Government hereby directs that the following amendments shall be made in the 
Rules made by the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
External Affairs No . 362 -Eur.I, dated the 16th July , 1953 , namely : 

1. In rule 1 of the said Rulcs, in Clause ( a ) after sub - clausę ( 7) the following 
sub - clause shall be inserted , namely : 

" ( 7A ) " Schedule " means a schedule to these Rules." 


1370 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 3, 1953 


[ PART II — SEC. 3 


- 


- - - 


2 . In rule 17 of the said Rules , sub - rule ( 4 ) shall be re - lettered as clause ( a ). 
of that sub - rule and after that clause as so re - lettered the following clause shall 
be inserted , namely : - 
“ ( b ) On completion of the scrutiny of nominations, the Chairman shall forth 

with examine symbols selected by the candidates and , if such symbols 
are found to conflict with each other , he shall allocate symbols in 
conformity as far as possible with thc wishes of the candidates and 
if necessary by lot, and his decision in this respect shall be Anal. If, 
in any particular ward , the number of candidates whose nomination 
papers are found valid cxceeds the number of symbols specified in 
Schedule A , the Chairman shall , in assigning symbols in the manner 
herein before prescribed , allocate them also out of the list of symbols 
specified in Schedule B and his decision shall be final. Each candidate 
or his agent shall at the same time be informed of the symbols 
assigned to such candidate and shall be given a specimen thereof. 
The Chairman shall then prepare a list of valid nominations indicating 

therein the symbols assigned to each candidate ." 
3 . In the said Rules, after rule 47 the following two Schedules shall be inserted, 
namely : 

" SCIIEDULE A 
List of symbols 

[ Rule 17 ( 4 ) ( 6 ) ] 
( 1) Boat. 

( 16 ) Axe. 
( 2 ) Cart. 

(17) Chair . 
( 3 ) Flower Marigold . 

( 18 ) Horse. 
( 4 ) Hurricane lamp. 

( 19 ) Fish . 
(5 ) Palki. 

( 20 ) Motor car . 
( 6 ) Tree . 

(21) Building. 
( 7 ) Scales . 

( 22 ) Clock 
(8 ) Umbrella . 

( 23 ) Table . 
( 9 ) Jack fruit . 

( 24 ) Electric fan 
( 10 ) Human hand. 

( 25 ) Ink - pot and pen . 
( 11) Bicycle . 

( 28 ) A sheaf of paddy . 
( 12 ) Lock and key . 

(27 ) A pair of scissor . 
( 13 ) Hookah . 

( 28 ) A bird . 
( 14 ) Date - palm . 

(29) Football . 
( 15 ) Kalsi. 

( 30 ) Dhol. 
SCHEDULE B 
List of additional symbols 

[ Rule 17 ( 4 ) (6 ) ] 
(1 ) Hut. 

( 6 ) Lamp (Deepa ) . 
( 2 ) Rising Sun . 

( 7) Bow and Arrow . 
( 3 ) Elephant. 

( 8 ) Ladder . 
( 4 ) Flaming torch (Mashal ) . 

(9 ) Railway engine. 
( 5 ) Star . 

( 10 ) A twig with leaves. 

(Back ) 
Voting paper No.. . . . . 
4 . In the said Rules, in Form A columns Nos. 2 and 8 shall be omitted and 
columns Nos . 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 and 9 shall be renumbered as columns Nos . 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 
And 7 respectively . 

5. In the said Rules, in Form B 
( 1) the following column shall be inserted after column 5 , namely : 
" Names of at least two symbols as specified in Schedule A to be selected by 

the candidate in order of preference" ; and 
( 11 ) the existing columns Nos . 6 , 7 , and 8 shall be renumbered as 7 , 8 and 9 . 
respectively . 


PART II — SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 5, 1953 


1371: 


6 . In sub - rule ( 2 ) of Rule 17 of the Rules for the election of Commissioners, 
for the words “ in columns 2 , 3 , 4 and 5 of the said form , or if it is not signed in 
columns 6 and 7 " , tho words " in columns 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 and 6 of the said form , or if it 
is not signed in columns 7 and 8 ” shall be substituted . 

[ D .4565 - Eur .I/ 53. ] 
A . N . MEHTA , Under Secy , 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs) 

CHARTERED ACCOUNTANT 

New Delhi, the 29th August, 1953 
S . R . O . 1656 . — In pursuiance of clause ( b ) of sub - section ( 2 ) of section 9 of the 
Chartered Accountants Act , 1949 ( Act No . XXXVIII of 1949 ) , the Central Gov 
ernment hereby nominates Mr. A . H . Just of Messrs . Price Waterhouse Peat & 
Company, Chartered Accountants , Kanpur, to the Council of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India vice Mr. F . A . Cole resigned . 

[No. 65 (3 ) - ICA /53.] : 
B . K . KAUL, Dy. Secy. . 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (REVENUE DIVISION ) 

HEADQUARTERS ESTABLISHMENT 

New Delhi, the 20th August, 1953. 
S .R .O . 1657 . - The following notification by the Income-tax Investigation Com 
mission is published for general information : 

" NOTIFICATION 
It is notified for general information that the Income- tax authority mentioned 
in column ( 1 ) of the table attached to this notice has been authorised with effect 
from the date mentioned in column ( 2 ) thereof by the Income-tax Investigation , 
Commission , without prejudice to his regular duties, to be authorised ofcial 
under section 6 of the Taxation on Income ( Investigation Commission ) Act, 1947, 
and that under the provisions of the said Act, any person ( including a person 
whose case is not under investigation ) who is required by the said authorised 
official in the course of the investigation : 

( 1 ) to produce accounts or documents ; 
and / or ( 2 ) to give information in respect of such accounts or documents ; 
and / or ( 3 ) to attend in person and answer questions on oath ; 
and / or ( 4 ) to make or prepare statements on oath giving information on 

specified matters; 
shall be bound to comply with his requirements notwithstanding anything in any 
law to the contrary . Failure to comply with the requirements of the said autho 
rised official may amount to an offence under Chapter X of the Indian Penal 
Code . 


Name and designation of the 

Authorised Oficial 


Date from 
which authorised 


Address of the head 

quarters office of 
the Authorised 

Oncial 
(3 ) 


17 -8 -53. 


Shri T , C . Parameswara Monon , 

Incomc- tax Officer , Mysore , 
Travancore - Cochin & Coorg . 


Income- tax, Office , 

Trivandrum 


RAMA NAND JAIN , Secy, 
Income-tax Investigation Commission " : 


INO. 63.] 
N . D . MEHROTRA , Dy. Secy . 


1372 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 5 , 1953 


[PART II — SEC . 3 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

INCOME- TAX 

New Delhi, the 27th August, 1953 
S . R . O . 1658, — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
59 of the Indian Income- tax Act, 1922 ( XI of 1922) , the Central Board of Revenue 
hereby directs that the following further amendments shall be made in the Indian 
Income- tax Rules , 1922, the same having been previously published as required 
by sub - section (4 ) of the said Section , namely : 

In the form of Notice prescribed by rule 20 of the said Rules, the following 
amendments shall be made , namely : 
( a ) in line 1 of paragraph 1 for the words " take notice " the words " This 

is to give you notice " and for the words " the sum " the words " a 

sum " shall be substituted ; 
( b ) in lines 4 and 5 of paragraph 2 the words " you are hereby informed 

that" shall be deleted ; 
( c ) in line 1 of paragraph 3 for the words “ You are required to pay the 

amount" , the words “ The amount is payable " shall be substituted ; 

and 

in line 2 after the word " when ” the words " if paid " shall be inserted ; 
( d ) for paragraph 5 the following paragraph shall be substituted , namely : -- 
" 5 . Unless the total amount due, including the penalty , is paid on or 
before 

19 , you will be liable to a further penalty 
(and a warrant of distress may be issued for the recovery of the 
whole amount due with cost ) ” . . 

[No. 56 . ] 


S .R . O . 1659 . - In pursuance of sub -section ( 4 ) of section 5 of the Indian Income 
tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922 ) , the Central Board of Revenue directs that the follow 
ing further amendment shall be made in its notification No. 32 - Income- tax , dated 
the 9th November 1946 , namely : 


In the schedule appended to the said notification , under the sub -head IV 
Uttar Pradesh and Vindhya Pradesh , for the Ranges, Income- tax Circles and 
Wards the following Ranges , Income- tax Circles and Wards shall be substituted . 
namely : 
Agra 

Allahabad 
1. Agra . 

1 . Allahabad 
2 . Mathura. 

2 . Central Circle , Allahabad . 
Dehra Dun 

3 . Jhansi . 
1. Dehra Dun . 

4 . Vindhya Pradesh . 
2 . Najibabad. 

Kanpur Range I 
3. Moradabad . 
4 . Rampur. 

1. District I, Kanpur. 
5 . Saharanpur. 

2 . District III, Kanpur, 
6 . Shahjahanpur. 

Kanpur Range II 
Banaras 

1 . District II , Kanpur . 
1 . Banaras. 

2 . Special Circle, Kanpur. 
2 . Azamgarh . 
3 . Gorakhpur. 

Meerut 
4 . Mirzapur. 

1. Meerut. 
5 . Faizabad . 

2 . Military Circle , Meerut. 
Lucknow 

3. Special Circle, Meerut. 
1 . Lucknow . 
2. Sitapur , 

4 . Muzaffarnagar . 
3 . Gonda. 

5 . Bareilly 
4 . Fatehgarh , 

6 . Aligarh . 


PART II -- Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 5 , 1953 


1373 


2 . Where an Income- tax Circle stands transferred by this notification from one 
Range to another Range, appcals arising out of assessments made in that Income 
tax circle and pending immediately before the date of this notification before 
the Appellate Assistant Commissioner of the Range from whom that Income - tax 
Circle is transferred shall on and from the date of this notification be transferred 
to and dealt with by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner of the Range to whom 
the said Circle is transferred . 

[ No . 57. ] 


New Delhi, the 29th August, 1953 
S . R . O . 1660 . - - In pursuance of sub - section ( 4 ) of section 5 of the Indian 
Income- tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922 ) the Central Board of Revenue directs that the 
following further amendment shall be made in its notification No. 32 - I. T ., dated 
the 9th November , 1946 , namely : - - 

In the Schedule to the said notillcation under sub -head III- B Bombay South 
for Kolhapur Range " Thana Range shall be substituted . 

[NO. 58. ]: 
K . B . DEB , Under Secy .. 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

(Agriculture ) 


New Delhi, the 25th August , 1953 
S . R . O . 1661. - In pursuance of the powers conferred under section 4 ( d ) of the 
Indian Central Coconut Committee Act, 1944 as amended by the Indian Coconut 
Committee ( Amendment) Act - LXIX of 1952 , the Central Government is pleased 
to nominate Shri S . C . Bhattacharjee , Agricultural Development Officer, Assam , 
Gauhati, as a member of the Indian Central Coconut Committee, upto 31st March , 
1958 . 

[No. F .2 - 14 / 53 .Commtt. II.) 
New Delhi, the 2nd September, 1953 
S . R .O . 1662. - In pursuance of the provisions of sub -section ( e ) of section 4 of 
the Indian Central Oilseeds Committee Act, 1946 ( IX of 1946 ) , the Government of 
Saurashtra have nominated Shri G , B . Shivdasani, Deputy Secretary , Industry and 
Supply Department, Government of Saurashtra, Rajkot , to be a member of the 
Indian Central Oilseeds Committee to represent that Government with effect from . 
1st April, 1953 . 

[No. F .5 -60 / 53- Com .-I. } 
S . R . O . 1663. - In pursuance of the provisions of sub -section ( 1) of section 4 of 
the Indian Central Oilseeds Committee Act, 1946 ( IX of 1946 ) , the Central Govern 
ment are pleased to nominate Shri Raja Ram Arora , M . L . A ., Atrauli, District 
Aligarh , (U . P . ) , and Shri Satish Chandra Das Gupta , Khadi Pratisthan , Sodepur, 
24 -Parganas (West Bengal ) , to be members of the Indian Central Oilsecds Commit 
tee to represent Village Oilseed Crushing Industry with effect from 1st April, 1953. 

[No. F . 5 -59 / 53 -Com .I.] 
F . C . GERA , Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 5th September, 1953 
S . R . O . 1665 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause 2 ( a ) of the 
Vegetable Oil Products Control Order , 1947 , as amended by the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture Notification No. S . R . O . 2040, dated 
the 22nd December, 1951, I hereby authorise the officers specificd in Col. 2 of the 
Schedule hereto annexed in respect of their respective jurisdiction in the State 
mentioned in Col. 1 to exercise, subject to such directions as may be issued by me 
from time to time in this behalf , the powers of the Vegetable Oil Products Con 
troller for India under clause 13 of the said Order. 


1374 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 5 , 1953 


(PART II - SEC . 3 


- - - 


THE SCHEDULE 


- - - - 


State 

( 1 ) 


Designation of Authority 

( 2 ) 


- 


Madras 


1 . Revenue Divisional Officers , Tahsildars , Deputy 

Tahsildars, Revenue Inspectors, District Supply 

Officers and Taluk Supply Officers . 
2 . Commercial Tax Officers , Deputy Commercial Tax 

Officers and Assistant Commercial Tax Officers . 
3 . Director of Industries & Commerce, Joint Director 

of Industries & Commerce , District Industries 

Offlcers and Supervisors of Industries, 
4 . Director of Public Health , Assistant Directors of 

Public Health , Health Officers and Health Inspectors . 
5 . Rationing Officers. 
6 . Assistant Rationing Officers.. 
7 . Collectors of all Districts. 
8 . District Magistrates . 
9 . Police Officers not below the rank of Sub - Inspector . · 
10 . Municipal Health Officers . 
11. Assistant Directors of Industries & Commerce. 
12 . Oil Technologist , Kerala Soap Institute, Kozhikode . 


[No. 2- VP (2) /53.] 
S . R . O . 1668 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by clause 2 ( a ) of the 
Vegetable Oil Products Control Order ( 1947) , as amended by the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Agriculture Notification No. 2 -VP (2 ) / 48 , dated the 9th 
October , 1948 , I hereby authorise the officers specified in Col. 2 of the Schedule 
hereto annexed in respect of their respective jurisdiction in the State mentioned 
- in Col. 1 to exercise , subject to such directions as may be issued by me from time 
to time in this behalf , the powers of the Vegetable Oil Products Controller for 
India under clause 8 - A of the said Order . 

THE SCHEDULE 


State 

( 1 ) 


Designation of Authority 

( 2 ) 


Madras 


1. Municipal Health Officers . 
2. Assistant Directors of Industries and Commerce . 
3 . Oil Technologist, Kcrala Soap Institute, Kozhikode . 


- - 


- - 


[No. 2 - VP ( 2 ) / 53. ] 
P . A , GOPALAKRISHNAN , 
Vegetable Oil Products Controller for India . 


- - 


- 


- - 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 25th August, 1953 
S . R . O . 1666 , - In cxercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 
5 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (XXXVII of 1952 ) , the Central Government 
hereby directs that the film entitled " The Naked Spur" produced by Metro 
Goldwyn -Mayer of U . S .A , shall be deemed to be an uncertified film in the whole 
of India . 

[No, 11/ 10 / 53 - FII .] 
A . N . BERY , Under Secy . 


PART II -- SOC. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 5, 1953 

1375 
= = = SSSSSS 
MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

· New Delhi, the 1st September 1953 
S . R . O . 1667, -- In cxercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 3 of the Indian Medical Council Act , 1933 (XXVII of 1933 ) , the 
Central Government is plcased to nominate Lt.- Colonel C . K . Lakshmanan , L . M , & 
S . (Mad .) , M . R . C . S ., D . T . M . & II. (Lond . ) , D . P . H . (Eng. ) , Director General of Health 
Services , to be a member of the Medical Council of India with effect from the 1st 
September , 1953 vice Dr. K .C . K . E . Raja , 

[No . F .5-6 / 52-M .I.] 

KRISHNA BIHARI, Asstt. Secy . 
- - - - 

- - 

- - - - - - - - - . . 
MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 


New Delhi, the 25th August, 1953 
S . R . O . 1668 - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 56 of the Adminis 
tration of Evacuee Property Act , 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) , the Central Government 
hereby directs that the following further amendment shall be made in the 
Administration of Evacuee Property (Central) Rules, 1950 , namely : 

In the sccond proviso to sub - rule ( 0 ) of rulo 14 of the said Rules, after the 
words and figures under section 26 the words and figures for section 27 shall be 
inserted . 

[No. 14 ( 105 ) Cus / 49 . ) 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 26th August, 1953 
S . R . O . 1669 . - - In the Schedule to this Ministry s Order No. 52 ( 5 ) / 53- Prop .. 
dated the 15th July , 1953, published at page 1212 of the Gazette of India , dated 
Ist August, 1953 , Part II, Section 3 against " Tehsils Faridkot and Bhatinda of 
Bhatinda District," in column 2 , for the words " Shri Hazura Singh , Competent 
Office , with headquarters at Kapurthala ." read the words " Shri Hazura Singh , 
Competent Omcer, with headquarters at Faridkot " , 

[No. 52 (5 ) /53 - Prop - I 
MANMOHAN KISHAN , Asstt. Secy: 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 

MERCIANT SHIPPING 

New Delhi, the 1st September 1953 
S . R . O . 1670 . -- The following draft of further amendments in the Indian 
Merchant Shipping (Safety Convention Certificate ) Rules, 1934 , published with the 
notification of the Government of India in the late Department of Commerce 
No , 46 - M , I ( II ) / 33 , dated the 29th December 1934, which it is proposed to make 
in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 245G and sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 245J of the Indian Merchant Shipping Act , 1923, (XXI of 
1923 ) , is published as required by the latter section for the information of all 
persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the said draft 
will be taken into consideration on or after the 20th September 1953 . 


Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person in respect 
of the said draft before the date specified will be considered by the Central 
Government. 


Draft Amendments 
In the said Rules 

( 1 ) In rule 5 after the words and figures " the International Convention for the 
Safety of Life at Sea , 1929 " wherever they occur the words and figures " or the 
International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea , 1948" shall be inserted . 


1376 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 5 , 1953 


( PART II — Sec . 3 


( 2 ) For the form of the Safety Radiotelegraphy Certifcate appended to the 
Second Schedule to the said Rules, the following form shall be substituted , namely :- - 

“ INDIA 
GOVT. SEAL 

SAFETY RADIOTELEGRAPHY CERTIFICATE 
Issued by the 
Government of India . 

Issued under the provision of the 


INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION FOR THE SAFETY OF LIFE AT SEA , 1948 . 


Name of Ship 


Official Number | Port of Registry Gross Tonnage 


- 


- 


- - 


. 


THIS IS TO CERTIFY 

That the above -mentioned ship complies with the provisions of the Regulations 
annexed to the Conyention referred to above as regards Radiotelegraphy : 


Requircments of ! Actual 

Regulations, provision . 


I ours of listening by opcrator, 
Number of operators . 
Whether autoalarm fitted . 
Whether majo Installation filted . 
Whether çmergency installation fitted . 
Whether main and cmergency transmitters electrically 

separated or combined . 
Whether direction finder fitted , 


I . . 


. . . 


. 


. . . 


. 


. . . 


. . 


. 


. 


. . 


. . 


. . 


This certificate is issued under the authority of the Government oť India . It 
will remain in force , unless previously cancelled , until the . . ... 
day of 

.. . . . .. . . .. . . 19 
Issued at ..... . ..... this .. ........ 

day of. .. .. ... . . .. .. .. .. .. . ... 19 . 
The undersigned declares that he is duly authorised by the said Government to 
Issue this CertiAcate, 


(Signature ) " 

[No. 36 -MA ( 9 ) / 53 . ) 
S . K , GHOSH , Dy. Secy . 


PART II- - SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 5 , 1953 


1377 


- 


- 


- 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 

New Delhi, the 26th August , 1953 
S . R . O . 1671.- - It is hereby notified for general information that in pursuance of 
the provision of paragraph 20 of the Employees Provident Funds Scheme, 1952 
made under section 5 of the Employees Provident Funds Act , 1952 ( XIX of 1952) , 
the Central Government has re - appointed , with effect from the 20th July , 1963, 
Dr. B . R . Seth , Director of Industries and Labour, Delhi, on return from leave to 
be the Regional Provident Fund Commissioner for the whole of the State of Delhi 
to work under the general control and superintendence of the Central Provident 
Fund Commissioner, vice Shri N . C . Rudra, reverted as the Accounts Officer , 
Employees Provident Funds Scheme, Delhi. 

[No. P .F . 516 (33 ). ] 
S . R . O . 1672 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
13 of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( XIX of 1952 ) and in super 
session of the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, 
No. P . F . 616 ( 33 ) , dated the 26th June, 1953 , the Central Government hereby 
appoints Dr. B . R . Seth , on return from leave to be an Inspector for the whole of 
the State of Delhi for the purposes of the said Act and of any scheme made 
thereunder , 

[No. P .F . 516 ( 33 ) .] 
TEJA SINGH SAHNI, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 1st /2nd September, 1953 . 
S . R . O . 1873. - Whereas immediately before the Employees Provident Funds Act, 
1952 (XIX of 1952 ) became applicable to the cement factories , specified in column 1 
of the Schedule hereto annexed , owned and managed by the Associated Cement 
Companies , Limited , Bombay , there was in existence a Provident Fund common to 
the employees employed in the said factories to which the said Act applies and em 
ployees in the establishments of the quarries of the said Associated Cement Com 
panies , Limited , specified in column 2 of the said Schedule , situated outside the 
premises of the said cement factories : 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the 
Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 (XIX of 1952 ) , the Central Government 
hereby directs that the provisions of the said Act shall with effect from the 1st 
October, 1953, also apply to the establishments of the said quarries of the Associated 
Cement Companies , Limited , in the Indian Union , situated outside the premises of 
the said Cement factories. 

SCHEDULE 


Name of Cement Factory 
1 . Kymore Cement Works, Kymore , 

(Madhya Pradesh ). 
2 . Lakheri Cement Works, Lakheri 

(Rajasthan ) . 


3 . Bhupendra Cement Works, 

Surajpur (Pepsu ) . 
4 . Madukkarai Cement Works , 

Madukkarai (Madras) . 
5 . Shahabad Cement Works, Shahabad 

(Hyderabad ) . 


Description of quarries 
Kymore Limestone Quarry , P . Q . 

Kymore via Jukehi Central 

Railway ) . 
Lakheri Cement Works Limestone 

Quarries P . O . Lakheri (Western 

Railway ) . 
Malla Limestone Quarry , P .O . B . C .W . 

Surajpur , (District Kohistan ) . 
Limestone Mines, Madukkarai ( South 

ern Rallway ) District Coimbatore . 
Shahabad Limestone Quarry , Shahabad 

(Deccan ) , (Central Railway (Dis 
trict Gulburga ) ] . 


Marl Quarries , Dwarka. 


6 . Dwarka Cement Works, Dwarka 

(Saurashtra ) . 
7 . Chaibasa Cement Works, Jhinkpani 

( Bihar ) . 
8 . Sevalia Cement Works , Sevalia 

(Bombay ) . 


Rajanka Limestone Quarries , Jhink 

pani (District Singhbhum ) (Eastern 
Railway ) . 
( i ) Sevalia Cement Works Limegtone 

Quarties, Sevalia (District Kaira ) . 
( 11 ) Kapadwan ] Bauxite Mines P . O . 

Kapadwanj (District Kaira ) . 
Khalari Limestone Quarry , Khalart 

(Diştrict Palamau ) . 


9 . Khalari Cement Works , Khalari 

( Blhar ) . 


[ PART II - Sec. 3 


1378 
- . - 


- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 5 , 1953 
- ------ 

( 1 ) 


- - - 


- 


Works, Kistna 


10 . Kistna Cement 

(Madras ) , 


11. Banmor Cement Works, Banmor 

(Madhya Bharat ) . 


(i ) Sitarampuram Limestone Mines , 

P . O . Plduguralla , ( District Guntur ) . 
( 11 ) Kaza Limestone Mines , P . O . 

Mangalagiri, 
( i) Kailaras Limestone Quarry , P . O . 

Kailaras (District Morena ) . 
( ii) Semai Limestone Quarry, Semai 

( R . S .) , (District Morena ) . 


[No. PF .504 ( 170 .) ] 


New Delhi, the 1st September 1953 
S . R . O . 1674 . - Whereas immediately before the Employees Provident l unds 
Act , 1952 (XIX of 1952 ) , became applicable to the Cement factories, owned and 
managed by the Associated Cement Companies Limited , Bombay , there was in 
existence a provident fund common to the employees employed in the sald facto 
ries to which the said Act applies and employees in the establishments of the 
Katni Cement Works, Katni and Mehgaon Cement Works, Mehgaon : 


Now , therefore , in exercise vf the powers, conferred by gection 3 of the 
Employees Provident Funds Act , 1952 (XIX of 1952 ) , the Central Government 
hereby directs that the provisions of the said Act shall also apply to the estab 
lishments of the said Katni Cement Works, Katni and the Mehgaon Cement 
Works, Mengaon ,, situated in the State of Madhya Pradesh , 


2 . This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 1st May, 
1953 . 

[ No. PF .504 (170 ) . ] 
N . M , PATNAIK , Dy , Secy . 


ORDERS 


New Delhi, the 29th August, 1953 


S . R . O . 1676 . — Whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that an 
industrial dispute exists between the employers in relation to the United Com 
mercial Bank , Ltd ., and their workmen , in respect of the matter sepcified in 
the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


And whereas the Central Government consider s it desirable to refer the dis 
pute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 10 of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947) , the Central Government hereby refers the 
said disputes for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal at Dhanbad , constituted 
under Section 7 of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the termination of _ the services of Shri L . R . Merchant and Shri 
S . K . Mehta from the Bombay Branch of the Bank was justified and , if not, what 
relief should be granted to them . 

[ No. LR - 100 ( 74 ) . ] 


New Delhi, the 1st September 1963 


S . R . O . 1676 . – Whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that an 
Industrial dispute exists between the employers in relation to the General 
Assurance Society Ltd ., and their workmen in respect of the matter specified 
in the schedule hereto annexed ; 


1379 


PART II - SEC. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 5 , 1953 

= = = 
And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer 
dispute for adjudication ; 


the 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( c ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947) , 
the Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , constituted under Section 7 of the said " Act . 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the termination of the services of Shri A , P . Verma from the Delhi 
Branch of the Company was Justified and , if not, what relief should be granted 
tu him . 


[No . LR90 ( 148).] 
N . C, KUPPUSWAMI, Dy. Secy. 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE MANAGER , GOVT. OP DINDIA PRE8B , NEW DELHI 
AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1953 


