vfchi'ih/.* . 

REGISTERED No. D, 222.-^'" " * ‘ ' y ‘ LTA '" 


tlhe Gazette 



of Inbia 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 23] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1952 


PART II — ection 2 

Bills and Reports o£ Select Committees on Bills 


HOUSE OF THE PEOPLE 

The following Bill was introduced in the House of the People on 27th 
November, 1962: — 

Bill No. 122 of 1062 

A Bill to amend the Cinrmatogrnph Aot, 1952 
Be it enacted by Parliament as follows : — 

1. Short title. — This Act may be called the Cinematograph (Amend- 
ment) Aot, 1962. 

2. Amendment of section 6 Aot XXXVII of 1962. — In section 6 of the 
Cinematograph Act, 1962 (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), 
the proviso shall be omitted. 

8. Inaertion of new section 6A in Act XXX VII of 1962. — After section 
6 of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted, namely: — 

”0A. Information and documents to be given to distributors and 
Cmhibitors with respect to certified films. — Any person who delivers 
any certified film to any distributor or exhibitor shall, in such manner 
as may be prescribed, notify to the distributor or exhibitor, as the 
case may be, the title, the length of the film, the number and the 
nature of the certificate granted in respect thereof and the conditions, 
if any, subject to which it 1ms been bo granted, and any other parti- 
culars respecting the film which may be prescribed.” 

4. Amendment of section 7, Act XXXVII of 1952. — For sub-section ( 1 ) 
of section 7 of the principal Act, the following sub-section shall be substi- 
tuted, namely: — 

"(I) If any person — 

(a) exhibits or permits to be exhibited in any place— 

(0 any film other than a film which has been certified 
by the Board as suitablo for unrestricted public exhibition or 
for public exhibition restricted to adults and which, when 
exhibited, displays the prescribed mark of the Board and has 
not been altered or tampered with in any way since such 
mark wa» affixed thereto, 

( 689 ) 


590 


THE GAZF/PTE OF INDIA, DEO. 0, 1952 [Part H— Sec. 2] 


(it) any film, which has been certified by the Board as 
suitable for public exhibition restricted to adults, to any 
person who is not an adult, or 

(fa) without lawful authority (the burden of proving which 
shall be on him), alters or tampers with in any way any film 
after it has been certified, or 

(o) fails to comply with the provision contained in section 
0A or with any order mado by the Central Government or by the 
Board in the exercise of any of the powers or functions conferred 
on it by this Act or the rules made thereunder, 
he shall he punishable with imprisonment which may extend to three 
months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with 
both, and in the case of a continuing off once with a further fine 
which may extend to one thousand rupees for each day during which 
the offeneo continues. 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 

The Cinematograph Act, 1952, re-enacted the provisions of the 1918 
Act separating matters relating to sanctioning of cinematograph films for 
exhibition, which is a Union subject, from matters relating to licensing 
and regulation of cinemas, wRieh is a State subject. However, certain 
defects havo been noticed in the course of actual administration, which 
it is necessary to rectify in the interests of effective enforcement of the 
provisions of the Act. 

Under the proviso tc section 0 of tho Act notice has to be given to 
the person who has been granted a certificate to show cause as to why 
the film should not be uncertified before such an order is issued by the 
Central Government. This provision serves no useful purpose. On the 
other hand, the procedure for giving notice entails such a delay that the 
very object of uucertiflcation is defeated. It is therefore proposed to 
delete the proviso. 

A number of cases in which films have been exhibited with portions 
not passed by the Central Board of Film Censors have been brought to 
the notice of Government; in certain cases, portions ordered to be removed 
have been reinserted. Such interpolations are all too easy in the case of 
films. It is therefore necessary to recast the penalty olause so as to 
cover tampering with certified films after certification and to ensure 
transmission of complete information relating to the certificate to the 
distributor and the exhibitor. It is also proposed to enhance the penalty, 
as, at prosent, it is inadequate as a deterrent. 

B. V. KE8KAR. 

New Delhi; 

The 14th November , 1952. 


M. N. HAUL, 
Seoretary, 


PRINTED IV INDIA BY THE MANAGER GOVT. Or INDIA PRESS, NEW DELHI 

and published by the manager of publications, delhi. 1952 



