222 


REGISTERED No. D. *** 


f 

SlRcfJ^BT 

(The (Bazette of <3ndia 

JEfa^TT H ST^rfiJW 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


«® 3 8] *rf 23 , 1967/wfsflpr j, i889 

No 38] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 33. 1967/ASVINA 1, 1889 

Separate pa gin* la given to this Park in order that it may be Sled 
as a separate compilation. 

»rfiW 

NOTICE 

ftrJ ett=] * wr.’srrOT w? 25 ajsrrf 1907 rw smftRT M : — 

The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published up to the 7th September, 

*967 ■■— 


Issue No. and Date Issued by Subject 

bio. 


415 S.O. 3083, dated 31st August, Ministry of Com- 
1967. merce. 


Amendment to notification No. 
771, dated 6th March, 1965. 


S.O. 3084, da’ed 31st August, Do. 

1967. 


The Export of Fish and Fish 
Products (Inspection) Amend- 
ment Rules, 1967. 


416 S.O. 3083, dated 31st August, Do. 

1967. 


5 . 0 . -086, da’ed 31st August, Do. 

1967. 


Appointing the ist day of Sep- 
tember, 1963 as the date cn. 
which the Standards of 

Weights and Measures (Exten- 
sion to Kohima and Mokok- 
chung Districts) Act, 1967 
shall come into force in the 
district of Kohirda and 

Mokokchung in the state oi 
Nagaland. 

Permitting the continuance of use 
in the districts of Kohima and 
Mokokchung in the State of 
Nagaland for a period of two 
years from the ist September, 
1967 of any weight or measure 
which was in use immediately 
before that date. 


( 3371 'I 







THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23 , 1 % 7 /ASVINA 1 , 1889 [Part II- 


issue 

No. and Date 

Issued by 

Subject 

No. 





417 S.O. 3087, dated 31st August, Ministry of Commerce Directing the East India Jute 
1967. and Hessian Exchange Ltd., 

Calcutta to suspend entering 
into forward confracts in jute 
goods other than (») transferable 
specific delivery contracts and 
(«) non-transfcrable — specific 
delivery contracts for' a further 
period of seven days with 
effect on and from the 1st 
September, 1967. 


418 S. 0 . 3088, dated 1 st September, Do. 

1967. 


Direction that the Order No. 
S.O. 1196, dated 13th April, 
1966 shall continue to have 
effect for a further period upto- 
15th September, 1967. 


419 S.O, 3089, dated 2nd Septem- Ministry of Home 
ber, 1967. Affairs. 


The Governor of the States of 
Assam and Nagaland. (Alloca- 
tion of Emoluments and Allow- 
ances) Order, 1967. 


420 S.O. 3090, dated 2nd Sep- Election Commission, 
tember, 1967. India. 


Amendments in notification No. 
508/UP/67, dated nth 
January, 1967. 


421 S.O. 3091, dated 2nd Sep- Ministry oflndustrial Board of Management for the M/s. 
tember, 1967. Development and Diwan Sugar and General 

Company Affairs. Mills, Private Limited, Sakhoti- 

Tanda, District Meerut. 


422 S.O. 3092, dated 4th Septcm- Ministry of Home 
ber, 1967. Affairs. 


Constitution of an Advisory Board 
for the purposes of the Preven- 
tive Detention Act, 1950. 


423 


424 


S.O. 3200, dated 5th Septcm- Ministry of Finance 
ber, 1967. 


S.O. 3201, dated 6th Septem- 
ber, 1967. 


Central Board of 
Direct Taxes. 


Notifying (*) the Industrial Credit 
and Investment Corporation 
of India Limited, Bombay and 
(it) the Gujarat Cooperative 
Housing Finance Society 
Limited, Ahmedabad for the 
Purpose of the Income-tax 
Act, 1961. 

Corrigendum to S.O. 846, dated 
10th March, 1967, 


425 


S.O. 3202, dated 6th Septem- 
ber, 1967. 


Ministry of Com- 
merce. 


Further amendment to the Ex- 
ports (Control) Order, 1962. 


426 S.O. 3203, dated 7th Septem- Do. 

ber, 1967. 


Further amendment to the Ex- 
ports (Control) Order, 1962. 


5 it f%% swrurcor wrsff tfr srfcpit srcnsrff sras-av, fafaw % tut 

<TtTTa TT *TT -ft TITttfr | Tm* 5TTTTT % qTT *T TTTTjff % "ft Tpfar 

*} 1 0 Ftt t qjpr ^nr "«nf^ i 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should he 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 

these Gazettes. 



Sec. S(U)} THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1907/ASVINA 1, 1889 3373 


W*T 3 -T^T»l ( fl ) 

PAKT II — Section 3 — Sub-section (ii) 

( WT HSl'SW «flt R'TfTT V (TO W* HSHfpT ) 

snfaW'ff JIM 31 Vt fir.tr titj ft It,* W155t tlft 53 ft RWItJ | 

Statutory orders and notifications Ksufd by the Ministries of the Govern- 
mtnt of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administration of Union Territories ) 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 

New Delhi, the 11th September 1967 

S.O. 3312- — In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes the Order, pronounced on the 
16th August, 1967 by the High Court of Rajasthan, Jodhpur in Election Petition 
No 19 of 1967. 

IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE FOR RAJASTHAN AT JODHPUR 

Judgment 

Narain Prakash s/o Shri Nandram, r/o Bada Beda Dhanna Teilai, Tonk (Ra)asthan) 

[terms 

1. Jamna Lai of Tonk 

2- Keshar Lai of Dhanna Talai, Tonk 

3. Chouthmal of Bandar Sindri 

4. Ram Gopal of Tonk 

5- Ram Nath of Tonk. 

Election Petition No- 19 of 1967 

u/ss 80, 80 A and 81 of the Representation of People Act of 1951 

Date of Judgment: August 10, 1967. 

Present 

The Hon*ble Justice L. N- Chhangani 

Mr. S. N. Bhargava — For the Applicant 

Mr- M- C. Dhoot — for the non-applicant No. 1 

By the Court 

This is an Election Petition by Narain Prakash, a defeated candidate for setting 
aside the election of Shri Jamna Lai, Respondent No. 1, to the Lok Sabha from 
the Tonk Parliamentary Constituency in the last General Elections. 

The only ground on which the Election of the Respondent No. 1 was chaFenged 
was that the Election Commission committed an error in interfering with the 
discretion exercised by the Returning Officer granting a free symbol to the 
Respondent and allotting him the symbol of the Swatantra Party. It was con- 
tended that on account of the change of the symbol by the Election Commission 
the results of the Election were materially affected- It was alleged that there 
was a breach of an order made under the provisions of the Act and the breach 
having affected results of the election, the election deserves to be set aside- 

The petition was opposed by the Respondent No. 1 and it was contended 
•inter) alia that the ground relied upon by the petitioner cannot be a valid one 
for setting aside the election. 

Issues were framed on 7th July, 1967 and the case was fixed for recording 
evidence of the parties today. The petitioner did not appear in Court and con- 
sequently, his statement could not be recorded. Two witnesses on behalf of 
the petitioner were present in the Court but the counsel for the petitioner could 
not examine them in the absence of any Instructions from his client. The witnesses 



3374 THE <^ z ette of india: September 23. 1967/asvina i, 1 eso [Part h- 


were thus discharged. No other witness present in Court and the counsel for 
the petitioner closed his evidence- As the petitioner led no evidence, the counsel 
for the Respondent also expressed his desire not to lead any evidence. Arguments 
were consequently heard- 

In order to succeed it was necessary for the petitioner to have proved in the 
first instance that there was any breach of any order Issued under ths Act by 
the petitioner and that such a breach materially affected the results of the election. 
Even on an assumption that there was a breach of an order issued under the 
Act in the absence of evidence it is not clear whether the Respondent No. 1 
committed any such breach or it was a more breach by a public authority only. 
This apart, in the • absence of evidence it is impossible to come to a conclusion 
that the results, of the election have been affected in any manner cn account of 
the grant of the Swatqntra Party symbol to the election have been affected in 
any manner on account of the grant of the Swatantra Party symbol to the Res- 
pondent No- 1 even if the grant be treated as violating some order issued under 
the Act. The allegations made in the election petition remain altogether un- 
substantiated and unproved. The Election Petition cannot but fail and it is dis- 
missed with costs. The counsel’s fees are assessed at Rs- 300 (Rupees Three 
Hundred only) . 

Let an authenticated copy of the decision be sent to the Election Commission 
and the Speaker, Lok Sabha, immediately. 


(Sd.) L. N. Chhangani, 

[No. 82/19/07(RJ).] 


New Delhi, the 13 th September 1967 

S.O. 3313 — In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1961, the Election Commission hereby publishes the Order, pronounced on 
the 1st August, 1907 by the High Court of Rajasthan, Jodhpur in Election peti- 
tion No. 20 of 1967- 

IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE FOR RAJASTHAN AT JODHPUR 

Judgment 

Ram Lai V. Vlshveshwar Nath, 

S. B- Election petition No- 20 of 1967 
Date of Judgment: 1-8-1067. 

Present 

The Hon’ble Mr. Justice Jagat Narayan, 

Mr. R'. C- Jain — for the petitioner- 

Mr. M- B. L. Bhargava and Shri S. K. Goel — for the respondent. 


By the Court 

This is an election petition under section 80 of the Representation of the people 
Act, 1961 challenging the election of Vlshveshwar Nath Bhargava-— Respondent to 
the Lok Sabha from the Ajmer Parliamentary Constituency. The petition has been 
filed by one Ramlal an elector of the Constituency. It has been contested by the 
returned candidate, 

The grounds on which the petition Is based appear from the following issues 
which were framed In the case: — 

1(A) Is the office of Pramukh of a Zila Partshad in Raiasthan (1) under the 
Government and Is it (2) an office of profit within the meaning of 
Article 102(l)(a) of the Constitution? 

1(B) Is the amount of Rs, 300/- which the respondent No- 1 was admitted- 
ly entitled to draw as Pramukh of Zila Parishad salary or honorarium 
or compensatory allowance? 

1(C) Did the respondent No. 1 not draw the above amount from the second 
week of January 1967 up to the date of election? If so, what is the 
effect? 

1(D) Is the above office exempt from disqualification under section 3(1) of 
the Parliament (Prevention of disqualification) Act (No. 10 of 1969), 
1969? 




Sec. 8 (H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23. 1967/ASVINA I, 1889 3375 


2(A) Is section 10(2) of the Delimitation Commission Act. 1962 void on the 
ground 'that by delegating its power to the Delimitation Commission 
to such an extenCThe Parliament has effeced Itself? 

2(B) If so, is tacking Bhim and Kumbhalgarh Assembly Constituencies to 
Ajmer Parliamentary Constituency void and the votes polled in these 
Assembly Constituencies should be excluded? If so, how will the 
result of the election be effected? 

2(C) Can the Delimitation Order, 1966 be challenged before this Court ip 
this Election petition under the Representation of the People Act, 1951? 

3(A) Whether the Presiding and Polling Officers for Bhim and Kumbhalgarh 
Constituencies were not appointed by district Election Officer, Ajmer? 

3(B) If so, who appointed "them? Was any breach of the provisions of Sec- 
tion 25 or 156 of the Representation of the Feopl e Act. 1951 thereby 
committed? 

3(C) Is It necessary to go into the above questions in the absence of any 
allegation in the petition that the result of the election was materially 
affected by irregularity, If any. of the above description? 

4(A) Did the respondent commit a breach of section 78 of the Representa- 
tion of the People Act, 1951 by filing the return of his election ex- 
penses before the District Election Officer, Ajmer and by not filing the 
return before the DEO Udaipur? 

4(B) Does it constitute a ground for setting aside the election under section 
100 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951? 

5(A) Was the Returning Officer of the Ajmer Parliamentary Constituency 
not authorised to administer oath to the respondent under Article 84 
of the Constitution by virtue of Notification No. S O. 3215 dated 
14 - 11-1963 published ft} the Gazette of India (Extraordinary), Part II. 
Section 3(11), No. 228 dated 16-11-1963? 

5(B) If so, Is the election liable to be set aside under section 100(1 )(a) of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951? 

6- To what relief are the parties entitled? 

Findings 

Issue No- 1. (A) 

The petitioner was the Pramukh of Ajmer Zila Parishad on th e date on which 
he filed his nomination paper as well as on the date on which the election was held- 
Under the Rajasthan zila Parishads (Payment of Allowance to Members), Rules, 
1961 as Pramukh of the Ajmer Zila Parishad he was entitled to a monthly hono- 
rarium of Rs. 300/- and was also entitled to draw travelling allowance and daily 
allowance in accordance with these rules in addition to the honorarium. 

Some village Panchayats were in existence in Rajasthan when the Constitution 
came into force and others were established after the coming into force of the 
Constitution In pursuance of the directive principle contained in Article 40 of the 
Constitution, which runs as follows: — 

"40. The State shall take steps to organise village panchayats and endow 
them with such powers and authority as may be necessary to enable 
them to function as units of self-government.” 

In the Second Five Years Plan the Planning Commission had laid great em- 
phasis on the fact that planning should start as the lowest level and that Pan- 

chayats should be the nucleus of such planning. Implementation of all scheme of 
rural development should be broad-based on self-help and mutual cooperation. 
The study Team of Community Development headed by Shrl Balwant Raljl Mehta 
(which was appointed by the Committee on Plan Projects set up by the Planning 
Commission) examined this question at great length and suggested the formation of 
Panchayats In villages and democratic decentralisation of administration at the 
block and district levels. The Rajasthan Panchayat Samitis and Zila Parishads 
Act, 1959 was passed to give effect to this recommendation. Panchayats were 
formed for groups of cillages so as to cover all the villages in the State. The 

Sarpanch of each Panchayat Is elected by adult franchise. For every block a 

Pe/ichayat Samiti was constituted to supervise over the work of all the Panchayats 
within its jurisdiction as well as to carry out some other duties- A Zila Parishad 
was constituted in each District to supervise and coordinate the work of Panchayat 
Samitis. It is also an Advisory Body for planning and development activities in 
the District. The Panchayat Samitis and the Zila Parishads are Corporate Bodies 
having perpetual succession, with power to acquire; hold and dispose of property 
and to enter into contracts and can sue and be sued. The Sarpanch of the Par- 



3376 THE gazette of INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 19&7/ASVINA 1 , 1889 [Part ]J~ 


chayat is elected on the basis of adult franchise by all the residents of the group 
of villages included It. All Sarpanches of Panchayats within the jurisdiction of a 
Fanchayat Samiti are ex-officio members of it. Members of the Legislative Assembly 
of the State elected from an area within the jurisdiction of the Panchayat Samiti 
are also ex-officio members- Some members of the Panchayat Samiti are elected 
by the President of the Gram Sabhas In the block from amongst themselves. These 
members in turn coopt upto two women, two persons belonging to the scheduled 
castes and two persons belonging to the scheduled tribes. The Pradhan of the 
Panchayat Samiti is elected by an electoral college consisting of — 

(i) Sarpanches of all panchayats; 

(if) Members of Legislative Assembly elected from the Block; 

(iii) Coopted members of the Panchayat Samiti; 

(iv) All panches of the Panchayats in the zlock. 

(v) Presidents of all Gram Sabhas in the Block. 


Every Zila Parsihad consists of the following memhers: — 

(i) Pradhans of all Panchayat Samities in the District; 

(li) members of the Rajya Sabha residing in the District; 

(iii) members of the Lok Sabha elected from a Constituency which forms part 

of the District; 

(iv) members of the Legislative Assembly elected from the District; 

(v) the above ex-officio members coopt upto two women, a person belonging 
to the scheduled caste and a person belonging to the scheduled tribes. 


Besides the above members, the District Development Officer, viz- the Collector 
of the District is a member. He has a right to speak at the meetings but he has 
no right to vote- There are some other associate members also, who have a right 
to speak but cannot vote. The District Development Officer and the associate 
members do not take any part in electing the Pramukh of the Zila Parlshad, who 
Is elected by an electoral college consisting of— 


.(i) Pradhans of all panchayat Samltis, 

(11) members of the Lok Sabha elected from a Constituency forming part of 
the district. 


(iii) members of the Rajya Sabha residing in the District. 

(iv) members of the Legislative Assembly elected from a Constituency form- 

ing part of the District. 

(v) members of the Panchayat Samiti, who have a right to vote at Its 
meetings. 


The functions which the Panchayats, Panchayat Samitls. and Zila Parlshads 
discharge are governmental functions, viz ■ functions which would normally be 
performed bv the servants of the State, If these bodies had not been created. They 
are all subject to governmental control the extent of which Is indicated by the 
Statutes creating these bodies, and the rules framed under them, As has already 
been mentioned above the Zila Parlshads were created by the Rajasthan Panchy at 
Samities and Zila parishads Act, 1950. the following provisions of which may be 
noticed to indicate the extent of control exercised by the Government on the Zila 
Parlshad and Its Pramukh: — 

S- 42(2) -makes the Zila Parlshad a body corporate having perpetual succes- 
sion and a common seal, with power to acquire, hold and dispose of 
the property, to enter into contracts and to sue or be sued in its cor- 
porate name, 

S. 43(3)(lv-a)— The District Development Officer viz- the Collector Is a mem- 
ber of the Zila Parishad. who has a right to speak at its meetings but 
has no right to vote. 

e 4fl.— The normal term of office of Zila Parlshad is three years but the 
State Government may extend it from time to time by a period not 
exceeding one year in the aggregate. 

s 48 — The resignation of the Pramukh only takes effect from the date on 

S 8 which the sanction of the State Government thereto is received In the 
office of the Zila Parlshad, 

S 52 .— Rules for the conduct of business at its meetings are prescribed by 
the State Government. 

S 33(1) — 1 The District Development Officer Is entitled to abend 0 ^ eet .„ 

the sub-committees of the Zila Parishad an<j to participate in the 
deliberations. 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1%7/ASVINA 1, 1889 337-7 


S. 53(2) — All Officers of the State Development Department are entitled to 
attend the meetings of the Zila Pari shad or a sub-committee thereof 
and to participate in the deliberations of such meetings relating to 
matters concerning their departments. 

S. 54 — The Zila Parishad can direct any division level officer of Government 
to attend any of its meetings, It can also direct any officer of the 
State Development Department to attend its meetings- 
S- 55 — The Secretary of the Zila Parishad is appointed by the State Govern- 
ment, He is a person holding a post under the State Government and 
is liable to transfer by the State Government. 

S. 56 — The Secretary appointed by the State Government records and keeps 
the minutes of the meetings of the Zila Parishad as well as its sub- 
committees. He works as drawing and disbursing officer of the Zila 
Parishad. The Pramukh has however the power to stop any payment 
and place the matter before the Zila Parishad for its orders. 

53. 57 — Enumerates the powers and functions of the Zila Parishad- The main 
function of the Zila Parishad is to supervise and coordinate the acti- 
vities of the Panchayat Samitis and to distribute among them the 
ad hoc grants allotted to the district by the State Government- 
S. 58— Defines the powers and functions of the Pramukh, He convenes, 
presides over and conducts the meetings of the Zila Parishad, has full 
access to its records, exercises administrative control over its Secre- 
tary and the Staff working in the Secretariat in order to enable him 
to assess the activities of the Panchayat Samitis. He is expected to 
visit the blocks and to inspect the works undertaken and the records 
maintained by the Panchayat Samitis. The Pramukh sends annually 
a report about the work of the Secretary to the District Development 
Officer. 

S- 60 — The State Government fixes the strength of the staff, determines their 
conditions of service and the method of their recruitment- The Zila 
Parishad is the appointing authority in case of Class III Staff. The 
appointments are made on the recommendation of a Selection Commis- 
sion consisting of two persons appointed by the State Government and 
the Pramukh- Members of the State Service can be appointed to the 
Zila Parishad Service and vice-versa. 

Under section 87 the members of the Zila Parishan S.ervice are entitl- 
ed to receive pensions from the State Government out of the conso- 
lidated fund of the State- 
'S. G1 — The allowance of the Pramukh as well as the members of the Zila 
Parishad is fixed by the State Government, 

"S- 62 — All moneys received by a Zila Parishad are credited to and constitute 
a fund which is called “The Zila Parishad Fund” and are to be applied 
' for the purposes specified in the Act or the Rules framed thereunder. 
The moneys are however to be kept in the Government Treassry- All 
orders for payment ar e to be signed by the Secretary. Payments for 
amounts exceeding Rs, 5,000/- are to be countersigned by the Pramukh. 
■S. 03—' The only two sources of income of the Zila Parishad consist of — 

(i) moneys received from the State Government- 

(ii) donations and contributions from the Panchayat Samitis or from 
the public. 

There Is no provision in the Act making it incumbent on the Pancha- 
yat Samitis to make a donation or contribution to the Zila, Pari- 
shad- The Zila Parishad Fund thus mainly consists of moneys 
received from the State Government. 

The payment of allowances of the Pramukh and the members of the. 
Zila Parishad is made a first charge upon the fund of the Zila 
Parishad- 

S. 64(4) — The Budget Estimate as finally passed by the Zila Parishad are to 
be submitted to the State Government and If the State Government is 
satisfied that an adequate provision has not been made for giving 
effect to the provisions of the Act It shall have power to suggest modi- 
fications and to return it to the Zila Parishad with its observations- 
The Zila Parishad Is bound to consider such observations and pass the 
budget with such modifications as It deems necessary. It Is note- 
worthy that the Zila Parishad Is not bound to accept modifications 
suggested by the Government. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 28, 1967/ASVINA 1, 1888 [Part II- 


S- 65— The Zila Parishad Is bound to maintain accounts, to transact its. 
financial business, to submit returns to the State Government and to- 
prepare Its btidjet in accordance with the Rajasthan Panchayat 
Samitis and Zila Parishads (Financial, Accounts and Budget) Rules, 
1959- Under Rule 30 it Is the duty of the Secretary to see that the 
total expenditure is kept within the limits of authorised appropriation 
and funds are expanded on objects for which provision has been made. 
Under Rule 76(3) the State Government has power to cause the pay- 
ment of the pay and allowances of the officers and servants of the 
Zila Parishad including the members after they have become du e it 
the Zila Parishad falls to make payment. Under RUle 102 the Zila 
Parishad has to send quarterly as well as annual statements of income 
and expenditure under each head of the budget to the District De- 
velopment Officer who In turn submits them to the State Government 
with the comments. 

The accounts of the Zila Parishad are audited under the Rajasthan 
Local Fund Audit Act, .1954 and the Rajasthan Local Fund Rules. 
1955. Under Rule 107 it is the duty of the District Development 
Officer to see that the irregularities pointed out in the Audit Report 
are promptly attended to and rectified. Rule 108 makes it binding 
on the Zila Parishad to remove the audit objections without delay. 
Under Rule 11(2) the Zila Parishad can write off loss of money, 
recoverable revenues, loans, advances or stores only with the appro- 
val of the State Government. Under Rule 115 the State Government 
have power to Issue instructions to the Zila Parishad from time to 
time for the proper observance of the Rajasthan Panchayat Samitl* 
and Zila Parishads (Financial, Accounts and Budget) Rules, 1959. 


g. 66 -A— If the Zila Parishad makes any default in performing any duty 
Imposed upon it by or under the Act the State Government may direct 
It to perform the duty within a period fixed by It. If the duty is not 
performed within the period the State Government can appoint some 
person to perform it and direct the Zila Parishad to pay the expenses 
incurred in the performance of the duty together with reasonable 
remuneration to the person so appointed- 

g 07 — The State Government may supersede the Zila Parishad if it appears 
to it that it has failed to exercise its powers and perform Its functions 
or has exceeded or abused its powers. On being superseded the 
Pramukh as well as the members of the Zila Parishad all go out ox 
the office. 


S. 


73 — The Pramukh as well as members of the Zila Parishad are niade 
public servants within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal 
Code. 

g. 74_The Zila Parishad has to send to the State Government annually ft 
report on its administration- 

g 7 « Provides that no suit against a Zila Parishad or against any member, 

officer or servant thereof or against any person acting under direction 
of the Zila Parishad for anything done or purporting to be done under 
the Act in its or his official capacity shall he instituted without giving 
two months’ notice or more six months after the accrual of the cause 

of action- . . 

s 70 -Gives protection against being sued or prosecuted for any thing done- 
in good faith under the Act. 

g 77 — Surplus funds can he Invested by the . Zila Parishad only with the 
sanction of the State Government. 

S. 79 — Gives power to the State Government to frame rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Act- 

a 04 Gives power to the State Government to delegate some of its jokers 

° n Apt tn nnv person or authority subordinate to it*^ S. 58(e) 

under the Act t p r ™ u vh shall exercise such other powers as may 
ay 9 /w^Pd to h m S Section 84. From this it is Inferred on 
blhalf of the t petitioner that the State Government threats the Pra- 
mukh as a person subordinate to it. 

s 8 5-Enable 8 the State Government to revise any order of the Zila Parishad. 

* ^arishad'an^a Slci^ to” 



Sec, 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 28. 1967/ASVIN'A 1, 1889 


Government for decision . Such decision shall be final and shall not 
be questioned in any court of law. 

It is not disputed that the office of Pramukh of a Ztla Parishad in Rajasthan is 
an office within the meaning of Article 102(l)(a) of the Constitution. The first ques- 
tion for determination is whether the office of Pramukh is held under the Govern- 
ment. The contention of the petitioner is that it Is so held. It is argued that 
although the Pramukh is elected his term can be extended by Government under 
section 46 by extending the term of the Zila Parishad. Further although the- 
Pramukh can only be removed from his office by a motion of no confidence under 
section 49, the State Government may put an end to the term of the office of the- 
Pramukh by superseding the Zila Parishad under section 67. Under section 61 it is 
the State Government which determines the remuneration attached to the office of 
the Pramukh. The source from which this remuneration is paid is mainly Govern- 
ment revenue. Under section 63 the Zila Parishad Fund mainly consists of moneys 
received from the State Government. It is pointed out that under section 48 the 
resignation of the Pramukh only takes effect after it is sanctioned by the Govern- 
ment- Further that under section 68(e) read with section 84(1) it is clear that the" 
Government treats the Pramukh as its subordinate to whom its powers can be 
delegated. It is argued that the Pramukh as well as the Zila Parishad work under 
the control of the Government and are bound to obey the directions issued by it. 

It is contended that the Zila Parishad performs only governmental functions and 
as such' it Is an agent or servant of the State and the Pramukh who admittedly 
holds office under the Zila Parishad, holds it under the State- 

On behalf of the respondent it is contended, on the other hand, that the decisive- 
factor in coming to the finding as to whether or not an office is held under the 
Government is whether the Government has power to appoint a person to it. The 
Pramukh is elected by an electoral college consisting of persons who are themselvesr 
elected and the Government has no hand in the appointment. Further the Pramukh- 
can only be removed from his office by a motion of no confidence passed by the 
members of the Zila Parishad and in this also the Government has no hand. It iff 
pointed out that the Government can neither extend the term of office of the 
Pramukh or put an end to it without extending the term of the office of the Zila 
Parishad or superseding it, and that from these powers of the State Government no 
Inference can be drawn that it has any power of appointment or removal of the 
incumbent of the office of Pramukh. As regards the power of the State Government 
to determine the quantum of allowance to be paid to the Pramukh under section 61 
the argument on behalf of the respondent is that such a determination can only be 
made by rules. With regard to the source from which payment is made to the 
Pramukh the contention of the respondent is that it is paid out of the Zila Parishad 
fund and not out of government revenues. In the eye of law even though Zila 
Parishad Fund may mostly consist of moneys received from the State Government. 
It was denied that the State Government can issue any directions to the Pramukh 
or the Zila Parishad interfering with the exercise of their discretion in discharging 
their functions and compel obedience to such directions. Lastly It was contended 
that the Zila Parishad is a juristic entity distinct from the State Government, and 
cannot be treated as a servant or an agent of the latter. The provisions of the 
Rajasthan municipalities Act, 1959 were referred to and it was pointed out that the 
Government exercises comparatively a strlctor control over the Municipal Board 
end Its Chairman. The Chairman can be removed like any other member for mis- 
conduct. Several of the taxes can only be Imposed by the Municipal Board with 
the sanction of the State Government. The Government may refuse to sanction a 
tax proposed by the Board or may sanction the proposal after such modification as 
It seems fit. The Municipal Board has to send its Budget Estimates for sanction hr 
the State Government which has power to modify them. The Municipal accounts 
are also audited by the examiner of the Local Fund Audit. The Municipal Board 
has to send to the Government an annual Administration Report. The State Gov- 
ernment has full powers of Inspection and supervision under Chapter XII. It is 
contended on behalf of the respondent that despite these powers no one would think 
of treating the Municipal Board as an agent or servant of the State Government. 

I now proceed to examine some of the decisions cited on behalf of the parties on 
this part of the issue: 

( l ) Hansa JIvraj Mehta V. Indubhai B- Amin and others (Election Tribunal, 
Baroda). 

Shrimati Hansa Mehta was appointed Vice Chancellor of the University of 
Baroda by the then Government of Baroda before Baroda merged v/ith Bombay, 
She received an honorarium of Rs. 500/- per month, a car allowance and a free 


(i) E.L.R. 171, 




3380 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER S3,. 1967/ASVINA 1 , 1889 [Part II- 


iurnlshed house from the funds of the University. She was liable to be removed 
irom the office by the Government. It was held that even though the petitioner 
leceived her allowances from the funds of the University and not from the State 
direct, as she was appdinted by the Government of Baroda and was liable to be 
removed by the Government she was disqualified under Article 121(a) of the 
Constitution for being chosen as a member of the Parliament. It was observed that 
In deciding whether or not the office is held under the Government of a State 
various tests can be applied: 

(1) Whether the State Government has the power of appointing or removing 
from office an incumbent? 

(il) Whether it has power to issue directions to the incumbent and compel 
obedience to such directions? 

(iii) Whether the profit In question is derived by the incumbent from the 
Government of the State? 

The first test was held to be decisive on the ground that if it Is satisfied the 
Irresistible inference would be that the incumbent would be under an obligation to 
that Government irrespective of the fact that his salary is drawn from source other 
than Government. The Tribunal came to the finding that the honorarium and 
allowance received by Smt. Hansa Mehta came directly from the University Fund 
and the fact of Government’s contribution to that fund does not in any way change 
the source of the honorarium and allowance, 

( 2 ) Hakikatullah V- Nathuslngh and others (Election Tribunal, Bikaner). 

Hakikatullah was the President of the Jodhpur Municipality. He was getting 
its- 130/- per month as an honorarium. Under section 53 of the Jodhpur Municipal 
Act, 1943 the President of the Board was elected by the members of th e Board from 
amongest themselves subject to the approval of the Government- Under section 59 
he was liable to be removed from the office by the Government on th* ground of 
[persistent failure to perform his duty. It was held that section 53 gives a hand to 
ihe Government in the appointment of the President which could not be made until 
und unless the Government agreed to it. Ab he was removable from office by the 
State it was held that he was disqualified under Article 191(l)(a) of the Constitu- 
tion for being chosen as a member of the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly, 

(3) Dr. Deorao Laxman Anande V. Keshav Laxman Borkar 

The question which arose for decision in the case was whether an Insurance 
Medical Practitioner appointed under the Employees State Insurance Corporation 
was disqualified under Article 191(l)(a). The Corporation was a body incorporate 
having perpetual succession and a common seal and was capable of suing and being 
sued in the name of Employees State Insurance Corporation. Under the provisions 
<if the Act under which the Corporation was established the Government exercised 
considerable control over it. Its principal officers were appointed by the Govern- 
ment. Its Budget Estimates were to be submitted to the Central Government for 
approval. The Audited Accounts were also to be submitted to the Government, 
t'he Corporation thus worked under the control and supervision of the Central 
Government. It was held that that would not make it a servant or an agent of the 
Government or justify, an inference that it was a Government Department. In the 
eye of law it was a separate statutory body and its emp’oyees could not be regarded 
as employees of Government. A reference was made to the decision in Tamlin V. 
Hansford (1950 f KB 18). 

It was found that the Insurance Medical practitioners were appointed bv the 
Surgeon-General to the State of Bombay. They were liable to dismissal or 
removal or to other disciplinary action by the same authority- Part of the remu- 
neration payable to the Insurance Medical practitioners came out of the revenues 
of the State, On these findings it was held that the Insurance Medical paracti- 
tioners held office under the Government of Bombay. 

It' was was observed that the principal tests for deciding whether an office is 
under the Government are — 

(1) What authority has the power to make an appointment to the office 

concerned. 

(2) What authority can take disciplinary action and remove or dismiss the 

holder of the office, and 


(2) VI E.L.R. 10. 

(8) AIR 1958 Bombay, 314. 



■Sec. 5(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/AS-VINA 1 , 1889 3381 


(3) by whom and from what source Is his remuneration paid. 

■Of these the first two were held to be more important than the third. 

( 4 ) Narayanaswamy V. Krfshnamurtf 

In this case the question which arose was whether the nomination paper of 
one C. Krishnamurthi. a junior Inspector under the Life Insurance Corporation 
of India who had stood for election to the Madras Legislative Assembly was 
rightly rejected- It was held that he was not disqualified under Article 191(1) (a) 
but was disqualified under Article 191 (l)(ei by virtue of Regulation 29 framed 
by the Life Insurance Corporation under section 49 of the Life Insurance Cor- 
poration Act prohibiting its employees from standing for election to the legis- 
latures. 

The Government of India has provided capital for the Corporation and has 
large powers of supervision and control over the management. The contention 
was that employees of the Corporation should be deemed to bp holding office of 
profit under the Government of India- This contention was repelled by the 
High Court. 

The reasoning on which the decision of the Tribunal against which an appeal 
•was preferred before the High Court was based was similar to that given by 
their Lordships of the Supreme Court in Abdul Shakur V. RIkhab Chand (S) 
Before the High Court It was sought to distinguish Abdul Shakur’s case ( B ) on 
the ground that in that case Government had merely assumed control over the 
property of a public charity and provided for the management of the Public Trust 
which was not in any sense the exercise of sovereign power or the creation of a 
Department of State and therefore furnished no analogy to the case before the 
High Court where the Government had nationalised the business of Insurance 
by taking over the assets of companies theretofore transacting life insurance busi- 
ness, had by statute created for itself a monopoly in such business and had created 
a corporation for the transaction of what was thereby rendered a State activity. 
It was urged that the Life Insurance Corporation is virtually a Department of 
the State or a servant of Government. This contention was negatived. There 
(Lordships referred to Tamlin V. Hansford (1950 01KB 18), In that case the 
plaintiff was the lessee of a house which was vested in the British Transport 
Commission under the Transport Act of 1947- The defendant was the sub-tenant 
of some rooms in the House, The plaintiff sued for possession of the rooms in 
the occupation of the defendant, and the defendant claimed the protection of the 
Rent Restrication Acts. The County Court Judge held that as the title to the 
house was vested in the British Transport Commission it must be deemed to be 
owned by the Crown, and that the Crown was not bound by the Rent Acts and 
he made an order for possession- The question debated before the court nf 
appeal was whether bv reason of the houso becoming vested In the British 
Transport Commission, it had become Crown property, the contrary contention, 
being founded on 'the British Transport Commission being a distinct legal entity 
— the Corporation — created for certain public purposes, and that bv reason of 
the vesting of the house in such a body, it could not be treated as Crown 
property. 

Denning L. J. who delivered the judgment observed: — ' 

"The Transport Act, 1947, brings into being the British Transport Commis- 
sion which is a statutory corporation of a kind comparatively new to English 
law. It has many of the qualities which belong to corporations of other kinds 
of which we have been accustomed- It has, for instance, defined powers which 
it cannot exceed, and it is directed by a group of man whose duty it is to see 
that those powers are properly used- 

It may own property, carry on business, borrow and lend money, Just as any 
other corporation may do, so lonv as it keeps, within the bounds which Parlia- 
ment has set but the significant difference in this corporation is that there are 
no share-holders to subscribe the capital or to have anv voice in its affairs. The 
money which the Corporation needs Is not raised by the Issue of shares, but by 
borrowing, and its borrowing is not secured by debentures, but is guaranteed 
by the Treasury If it cannot repay, the loss falls on the consolidated fund of 
the United Kingdom- that Is to sav. on the tax payer- There are no shareholders 
to elect the Directors or to fix their remuneration 

(t) AIR 1958 Madras 34 a. 

(*) AIR 1958 Supreme Court 52 . 



3382 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 28, 1967/ASVINA I, 1889 [Part II- 


If it should make losses arid Jse unable to pay its debts, its property is liable 
to execution, but it Is not liable to be wound up at the suit of any creditor. The 
tax payer would, no doubt be expected to come to its rescue, before the creditors 
stepped in, Indeed, the tax payer is the universal guarantor of the Corpopration. 
But for him it could not have acquired its business at all, nor could it now 
continue it for a single day, . . . 

The protection of the interests of all these lax payers, user and beneficiary — 
is entrusted by Parliament to the Minister of Transport- He is given powers 
over this Corporation which are as great as those possessed by a man who holds 
all the shares in a private company, subject however, as such the man Is not, 
to a duty to account to parliament for his stewardship. It is the Minister who 
appoints the directors — the members of the Commission — and fixes their remune- 
ration. 

They must give him any Information he wants, and, lest they should not prove 
amenable to his suggestions as to the policy they should adopt, he Is given power 
to give them directions of a general nature in matters which appear to him to 
affect the national Interest, as to which he is the sole judge, and they are then 
bound to obey- 

These are great powers, but still we cannot regard the Corporation as being 
his agent, any more than a company is the agent of the shareholders or even of 
a sole shareholder. In the eye of the law the Corporation is its own master and 
is answerable as fully as any other person or Corporation, It is not the Crown and 
has none of the immunities or privileges of the Crown. 

Its servants are not civil servants and its property is not Crown property- 
It is as much bound by acts of parliament as any of other subject of the King. It 
is, of course, a public authority and its purposes, no doubt, are public purposes 
but It Is not a Government Department, nor do Its powers fall within the province 
of Government 

We do not find it very useful to draw the analogies from other bodies which 
are differently constituted and differently controlled and exist for different pur- 
poses. The Territorial Forces Association, for instance, is not concerned with 
commercial matter, but With the deference of the realm, which is essentially the 
province of Government, and it is, therefore, to be considered as agent of the 
Crown The post office is the nearest analogy- 

It Is, of course, concerned with commercial matters, but it is, nevertheless, a 
Government Department and its servants are civil servants. That is, however, 
an anomaly due to Its history. The carriage of mail was a crown monopoly long 
before the Fost-Master-General was Incorporated. But the carriages of passengers 
and goods Is a commercial concern which has never been the monopoly of any 
one and we do not think that its unification under State Control is any ground 
for conferring Crown privileges on it. 

The only fact in this case which can be said to make the British Transport 
Commission a servant or agent of the Crown is the control over it whch Is exer- 
cised by the Minister of Transport, but there Is ample authority both In this Court, 
and in the House of Lords for saying that such control as he exercises insufficient- 
for the purpose .- 

When Parliament intends that a new corporation should act on behalf of 
the Crown. It, as a rule, says so expressly, as it did in the case of the Central 
Local Board by the Town and Country Planning Act, 1947, which was passed 
on the very same day as the Transport Act, 1947- 

In the absence of any such express provision the proper inference in the case, 
at any rate, of a commercial corporation is that It acts on Us own behalf, even 
though it Is controlled by a Government department- 

In our opinion, the British Transport Commission is not a servant or agenf 
of the CrOwn and its property is as much subject to Rent Registration Acts as 
the property of any other person”. 

The decision in Tamlin V. Hannsford (195 1 KB 180) was applied and it was 
held that the Life Insurance Corporation could not be treated as a department 
of Government or its servant or agent. It was observed: 

"The object and purpose of the statute was the creation of a body autonom- 
ous tn regard to its day-to-day administration and free from ministerial 




■Cec. 3(il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23. 1967/ASVINA 1, 1889 3383 


control except as to broad lines of policy, and therefore outside - 
plenary Parliamentary surveillance, save perhaps in regard to the 
directions given by the responsible minister under S 21, 

It was this freedom that was sought to be achieved by the creation of a 
separate legal entity In the form of a statutory Corporation. There 
was not, therefore, merely a difference in form between a depart- 
ment of the Government and this statutory Corporation but one in 
substance,” 

(5) Abdul Shakur V. Rikhab Chand. 

The appellant was the manager of a school run by a committee of manage- 
ment formed under the provisions of Durgha Khwaja Sahib Act, 1955- He was 
appointed by the Administrator of the Durgah and was paid Rs. 100 per month. 
The question arose whether he was disqualified to be chosen as a member of 
Parliament in view of Article 102(1) (a) of the Constitution?, It was contended 
for the respondents in that case that under sections 5 and 9 of the Durgah 
Khwaja Sahib Act, 1955 the Government of India had the power of appointment 
and removal of members of the committee of management as also the power to 
appoint the Administrator" In consultation with the committee- Therefore the 
appellant was under the control and supervision of the Government and that 
therefore he was holding an office of profit under the Government of India. This 
contention was reoelled and the Supreme Court pointed out the distinction bet- 
ween the holder of an office under the Government and the holder of an office of 
profit Under some other authority subject to the control of Government. It was 
observed : 

“No doubt the Committee of Durgah Endowment is to be appointed by the 
Government of India but it is a body corporate with perpetual successions acting 
within the four corners of the Act- Merely because the committee or the members 
of the committee are removable by the Government of India or the committee can 
make bye-laws prescribing the duties and powers of its employees cannot in our 
opinion convert the servants of the committee Into holders of office of profit 
lmder the Government of India- The appellant Is neither appointed by the 
Government of India nor Is removable by the Government of India nor Is be paid 
out of the revenues of India- The power of the Government to appoint a person 
to an office of profit or to continue him In that office or revoke his appointment 
at their discretion and payment from out of Government revenues are important 
factors in determining whether that person is holding an office of profit under the 
Government though payment from a source other than Government revenue Is 
not always a decisive factor. But the appointment of the appellant does not 
come within this test. 

A number of election cases reported in the Election Law Reports were cited 
befpre us but they were decided on their own facts and are of little assistance 
in the decision of the present case. The test of the power of dismissal by the 
Government or by an officer to whom such power has been delegated which was 
pressed In support of his case bv the respondent is equally inapplicable to the 
facts of the present case because the appellant cannot be dismissed by the 
Government or by a person so authorised by the Government. He Is a servant of 
the statutory body which in the matter of its servants acts within the powers 
conferred upon it by the statute- 

A comparison of the different articles of the Constitution 38(2), 66(4), 
102(1) (a) and 191(1) (a) dealing with membership of the State Legislatures 
shows in the case of members of the Legislatures unlike the case of the President 
and the Vice-President of the Union the disqualification arises on account of 
holding an office of profit under the Government of India or the Government 
of the States but not if such officer is under a local or any other authority under 
the control of these governments.” 

(6) M- R'amappa V- Sangappa and Others. 

The question arose as to whether the holder of a village office, who has a 
hereditary right to it Is disoualified under Article 191(1) (a) of the Constitution 
which is the counterpart of Article 102 in the matter of membership of the State 
Legislature It was observed: — 

“The statute, no doubt, gives him a right to be appointed by the Government 
in certain cases. Nonetheless, it is the appointment by the Government that 


(5) AIR 1958 Supreme Court 52. 

(6) AIR I9j8 Supreme Court 937 



3384 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA 1 , 1889 [PARr ll- 


perfects his right to the office and makes him the officer; without such appoint- 
ment he does not hold the office- The office is, therefore held hy reason of the 
appointment b,v the Government and not simply because ol a hereditary right to 
it The fact that the Government cannot refuse to make the appointment does 
not alter the situation. 1 ’ 

It was found that the holder of the village office works under the control and 
supervision of the Government, his remuneration is paid by the Government out 
of Government funds and assets, he is removable by the Government, and thus- 
he holds his office under the Government 

(7) Guru Gobinda Basu V. Shankari Prasad. 

The appellant was appointed an auditor by the Central Government of two 
Government companies: (i) The Hindustan Steel Ltd., and (ii) Durgapur Projects; 
Ltd- He was removable from office by the company in a general meeting after 
obtaining previous approval of the Central Government. The Comptroller and 
Auditor General of India exercises control over the auditor of a Government 
company. The Auditor General has right to give such auditor instructions in 
regard to any matter relating to the performance of his functions as such. The 
remuneration of the auditory is fixed by the Central Government though it is 
paid by the Company. Both the companies are hundred percent Government 
companies. The Comptroller and Auditor General is appointed by the president 
and his administrative powers ore controlled by the rules made by the President of 
India On these facts It was held that the appellant was disqualified under 
Article 102(1) (a). The following five tests were referred to before their Lord- 
ships: — 

(1) Whether Government makes the appointment to the office; 

(2) Whether GQvernment has the right to remove or dismiss the holder of 

office; 

(3) Whether Government pays the remuneration; 

(4) What are the functions which the holder of the office performs and 

does he perform them for Government; and 

(5) Does Government exercise any control over the performance of those 

functions. 

It was contended on behalf of the petitioner that all these tests must co- 
exist and each must show subordination to the Government- On behalf of the 
respondents It was argued that the tests are not cumulative in the sense con- 
tended for by the petitioner, and what is to be considered is the substance of the 
matter which must be determined by a consideration of all the factors present 
in a case and whether stress will be laid on one factor or the other will depend 
pn the circumstances of each particular case- 

It was observed that in Abdul Shaknr's case (5) the facts which were 
held to be decisive were (a) the power of the Government to appoint a person 
to an office of profit or to continue him in that office or revoke his appoiniment 
at their discretion, and (b) payment from out of Government revenues, though 
it was pointed out that payment from a source other than Government revenues 
was not always a decisive factor, Further that in Ramappa v. Sangappa (6) the 
decisive test was held to be the test of appointment. It was held— 

"Jn view of these decisions we cannot accede to the submission of Mr- 
Chaudhari that the several factors which enter into the determination 
of this question — the appointing authority, the authority vested with 
power to terminate the appointment, the authority which determines 
the remuneration, the source from which the remuneration is paid, 
and the authority vested with power to control the manner in_ which 
the duties of the office are discharged, and to give directions in that 
behalf — must all coexist and each must show subordination to Gov- 
ernment, and that it must necessarily follow that if one of the elements 
is absent, the test of a person holding an office under the Government. 
Central or State Is not satisfied. The cases we have referred to 
specifically point out that the circumstance that the source from 
which the remuneration Is phid is not from public revenue Is a neutral 
factor— not decisive of the question. As we have said earlier whether 
stress will be laid on one factor or the other will depend on the facts 
of each case.’’ 


(7) AIR 1964 Supreme Court 254. 



Sec. 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23. 1967/ASVINA J, 1889 338 ? 


(8) Klshore Chandra Deo Bhanj v . Raghunath Misra and others 

1 The case came on an appeal from a decision of the High Court of Orissa- 
The High Court was of the opinion that a Sarpanch of the Gram Panchayat,. 
though not a Government servant appointed by the Government, was none the 
less a person in the service of the Government as he performed many of the* 
Government duties and was also removable by the Government and such a 
person came within the provisions of Section 123(7) (f) of the Representation of 
the People Act, 1951- The Sarpanch exercised mostly governmental functions- 
like collection of taxes, maintenance cf public accounts etc- The High Court 
thought that if such a person was not brought under section 123 (7)f) there would 
be a losts of undue Influence exercised on the voters by these persons, who in the- 
village exercised a lot of influence considering the nature of their powers and 
the ideas of the village) people. Their Lordships drew a distinction between- 
“servant under the Government” and "in the service of Government” on the ground 
that while one may serve under a Government, one may not necessarily be In 
the service of the Government- Under the latter expression the existence of 
the relationship of master and servant is necessary, the two essentials of which 
are — 

(i) the servant must be under the duty of rendering personal services, to 
the master or to others on his behalf; and 

(11) the master must have the right to control the servant’s work either 
personally or by another servant or agent- 

It Is this right of control or Interference, of being entitled to tell the servant 
when to work (within the hours of service) or when not to work, and that work 
to do and how to do it (within the terms of such service), which is the dominant 
characteristic in this relation and marks off the servant from an Independent 
contractor, or from one employed merely to give to his employer the fruits or 
results of his labour- It was found that as between the State Government and 
the Gram Panchayat and its Sarpanch no relationship of master and servant 
existed. It was observed 

“It is true that the State Government, the District Magistrate and the 
Sub-divisional Magistrate have been given certain powers of control 
and supervision over the Gram Panchayat but those powers of control 
and supervision are in relation to the administrative functions of the 
Gram Panchayat and the Sarpanch. The Gram Panchayat is an auto- 
nomous body exercising functions conferred under the statutes. It can 
hardly be said that the Gram Panchayat Is so functioning in the- 
service of the Government. Its administrative functions are akin to 
the functions generally performed by -Municipalities and District 
Boards. It would be a conception hitherto unknown to suppose that 
any Municipality or District Board was in the service of the Govern- 
ment , merely because It exercised administrative functions and to> 
some extent was under the control of the Government. Co-operative 
Societies generally are very much under the control and supervision 
by the State Government or one of its officers authorised In that behalf. 
It would be difficult to accept this suggestion that because of that a 
Co-operative Society and its members must be regarded as in the 

service of the Government Even if it could be said that the 

Gram Panchayat in the exercise of its administrative functions 
exercised duties in the nature of governmental duties it could not 
thereby be said that its Sarpanch was in the service of *he Govern- 
ment.’’ 

As was pointed out by their Lordships of the Supreme Court in Guru Gobinda 
Basu v. Shankari Prasad (7) for holding an office of profit under the Government 
and there need be no relationship of master and servant between them. The 
above ease Is therefore of no help in deciding the question as to- whether the 
Respondent was holding an Office under the Government. 

Applying various tests suggested in the above decisions to the present case 
the result is as follows : 

(i) A persual of the provisions of the Rajasthan Panchayat Ssmitis and 
Zila Parishads Act, 1959 goes to show that the State Government fiaa 
no hand in the appointment of a person to the Office of Pramukh- 
The Pramukh is elected by an electoral college consisting of persons 
who. are themselves elected by different Electoral Colleges. He is not 
elected even by members of the Zila Parishad. 


(8) XIX E.L.R. 1 , 



3386 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA 1 , 1889 [Part II- 


Under section 46 Government can extend the term of the Zila Parishad upto 
h maximum of one year- If the term of the Zila Parishad is extended then the 
term of the Office of the Pramukh Is also extended- The State Government has 
thus power to extend the term of the Pramukh by a year Indirectly by extending 
'the term of the* Zila Parishad. 

(2) The State Government cannot remove the Pramukh or take any disciplinary 
action against him- The Pramukh can only be removed from his Office by the 
Members of the Zila Parishad by passing a motion of no confidence a# provided 
•in section 49. 

The State Government can however supersede the Zila Parishad under section 
67 and if the Zila Parishad is so superseded then the term of Office of the 
Pramukh also comes to an end- The State Government can thus terminate the 
Office of the Pramukh indirectly by resorting! to the provisions contained in 
.Section 67- 

(3) It Is the State Government which determines the allowances which are 
payable to a Pramukh by framing rules as provided under section 61- 

(4) These allowances are paid out of the Zila Fund which in turn consists 
mostly of moneys received from the State Government. 

(6) The powers and functions of the Pramukh are enumerated in section 58- 
Tie performs these functions in his capacity as Pramukh of the Zila Parishaa. 
As the Zila Parishad itself performs only governmental functions, the functions 
performed by the Pramukh are also governmental in nature- It cannot however 
"be said that he discharges his functions on behalf of the Government. He per- 
forms them in his capacity as Pramukh of the Zila Parishad in exercise of statutory 
powers conferred on him under the Rajasthan Panchayat Samitls and Zila Parlshads 
Act, 1959- 

(6) No power has been given to the Government to interfere with the Pramukh 
in the exercise of his functions under the Act or the rules framed thereunder. 
The Government has however been given power to exercise control over the Zila 
Parishad under the Act and the rules- These powers have been enumerated above 
In detail. If the Zila Parishad fails to perform any of its duties then the Govern- 
ment can direct its performance as provided under section 66A- On the failure 
of the Zila Parishad to comply with the direction the Government can appoint 
some one to perform the duty and recover expenses of the same from the Zila 
Parishad- It can even supersede Zila Parishad under section 67 for falling to 
exercise its powers for abusing them But it cannot dictate the manner in which 
the 231a Parishad shall discharge a particular duty or perform a particular 
function. 

(7) The Zila Parishad is a juristic entity distinct from the State- It cannot 
be regarded as a department of the State or its agent or servant- 

The only decision which the learned counsel for the petitioner cited in support 
of the contention that the Zila Parishad is a department of the State or agent 
or servant of It is the case of Narayanswamy v- Krishna Murthi (4)- Neither 
that decision nor the observations made in it support him. The learned judges 
Telied on Tamlm v. Hanssfor (1950 1KB 18) in that case. It was held that 
when Parliament Intends that a new Corporation should act on behalf of the 
Crown, it, as a rule, says so expressly, as it did in the case of the Central Local 
Board by the Town and Country Planning Act, 1947, which was passed on the 
very same day aa the Transport Act, 1947- In the absence of any such express 
provision the proper inference in the case, at any rate, of a commercial Corporation 
is that it acts on its own behalf, even though It is controlled by a Government 
Department- The last mentioned observation was qualified by adding the words 
'‘in the case, at any rate, of a Commercial Corporation" by way of abundant 
caution- Learned counsel for the petitioner was unable to cite any case of a 
non-Commerelal Corporation in which it mieht have been held that it was a 
department of the State despite the fact that the Act creating It did not expressly 
aay so. It was observed in para 19 In that case:— 

" the test of a function on which he laid considerable emphasis appears 

to be equally unsafe for Identifying a public Corporation as a part of 
the 1 mechanism of the State. To start with, it may be mentioned, 
that for this purpose, Corporations created for Municipal or Local 
Administrations are not treated as part of the State so as to render 
the Corporators or those employed by the Corporations either as 
part of Government or as Government servants. ' 



Sue. 9(li)) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 29, 1967/ASVINA I. 1889 3387 


Meiely because the Zila Farishad performs governmental functions and the 
State Government exercises control O', i_r it, it cannot be held that it Is merely 
a Department of the State' Within the four corners of the Rajasthan Panchayat 
Samitits and Zila Fan?hads Act, 1959 the Zila Parishad has full power to act 
indeptndeniiy. There is no provision m this Act or the Rules framed thereunder 
under which the State Government can dictate to it in what manner it should 
discharge a particular duty or perform a particular function. 

In all the decided cases which have been referred to above the test cf appoint- 
ment was given the greatest Importance. In fact no case could be cited by the 
learned counsel for the petitioner in which it might have been held that an Ofllce 
was held under the Government in which the Government did not have the power 
of appointing the incumbent. The power of the State Government to extend the 
term of appointment indirectly by extending the term of the Zila Parishad and 
the power to terminate the appointment indirectly by superseding the Zila Parishad 
can hardly be regauled as powers of appointment and removal of the Fremi kh- 
Having legal d to all the facts found by me above I am of the opinion that the 
Office of a Pramukh of a Zila Parishad In Rajasthan is not an Office under the 
State Government within the meaning of Article 102(1) (a) of the Constitution. 

A Pramukh no doubt holds an Office under the Zila Paribhad which is a bocal 
Authority subject to the control of the State Government- He is disqualified for 
the Office of the President of the Union unciei Article 58(2) of the Constitution. 
He is not Fsi,uulnled for being chosen n& a membei of Parliament or the Lcgis- 
lativo Assembly of a State- 

The next <j lestion to be considered is whether the Office c" Piamukli is an 
Office of T'roV * Any m.i erial advantage, howsoever, im’^iiuicant, will Constitute 
Proiit in the literal sense. In Havana Subanna V- G S Kaggceranpa (9) their 
boro . i.,' j 1 , ih - bps'iiH Court to< k die view that r - mb. r-'emcnl oi some out- 
of-po'ket 1 p-oses phon'd not be treated ns proiit Their Lordship-, vcie dealing 
with Ihr o,j' ,uon vvii ,acr the Office <-i the Chairman of Gubbi Taluk Develop 
mei.t Committee was en Office of Profit it was ohsei ved ■- - 

“Tib 1 plain meaning of the expression seems to be th ff an Office must be 
m 11 I u lei G'.veinmert to vvhich any pay, saiai.v, emoluments or 
allowance u attached- The vvoid ‘profit' connotes th idea cl pecuniary 
ran Ii tb 2 1 • is really a g.ii, its quantum or amount would not be 
' derial, but the amount ol money rcceiv cable by a peioon in ccn- 
ru 1 Lion wdh the Office ha hotels may be material is flevidii g whether 
'i 'Tice re i’y carries am >> olit It appear, 1 rom the rules that 
l/e 1 link Development Committee is constituted as a part of the 
be., 1 ,e ioi r. organisation x ruial development 

H is a short 01 Advisors Body consisting of ten members and is presided over 
by a noo-Omi lal 1 . nauman The Chaiimun has no executive duties to perlorm 
•vbuh are lell entirely lo the Amildar of the Taluk who is the ‘ex-officio’ Secretary 
to the Committee, while a Special Revenue Inspector is to act as Assistant Secre- 
tary. The Chairman is to preside over the meetings which are to be convened by 
the Secretary in consultation with him and the rules provide that the Chairman 
will be entitled to a fw of Rs- 6 for each sitting he attends- 

From the facts Haled above, we think it can reasonably be Inferred that the 
fee of Rs- 6 which the non-Offlcial Chairman is entitled to draw for each sitting 
of the Committee, he attends, Is not meant to bp a payment by way of remuneration 
or profit but it is given to him as a consolidated fee for the out-of-pocket expenses 
which he has to incur for attending the meetings of the Committee- We do not 
think that G was the intention ot the Government which created these Taluk 
Development Committees w hlr-h were to be manned exclir ivcly by non-Offlcials, 
thal the Oflin ’ oJ the Chairman or of thy members should carry any profit or 
remuneration " 

Under the Rajasthan 511a Parishad ^Payment of Allowance to Members) Rules, 
1961 the Pramukh is entitled to ,tn honorarium of Rs 300 per month In addition 
t< tills he is entitled to draw trnveUlng allowance for all journeys performed on 
Official Dutj including the journey performed bv him from his residence is Ajmer 
to the Office of Zila Parishad in Ajmer nt the rates prescribed in these rules. 
Further he is entitled to draw Dally Allowance at Rs 5 per day whenever he 
goes out of Aimer on Official Duty in a conveyance other than a Government 
Vehicle and makes half at one place for more than eight hours. He is entitled to 
draw Daily Allowance at Rs- 5 per day even if he halts To- less than eight hours 
outside Ajmer provided he travels by a Government Vehicle- 


f Ip Supreme Court 65-. 



3388 THE GAZETTE or INDIA: SEPTEMBER 28, 1967/ASVINA 1 , 1889 [Part li- 


lt will thus be seen that all the out-of-pocket expenses of the Pramukh are 
covered by the travelling allowance and daily allowance to which he is entitled 
under the rules and the Honorarium of Rs- 300 per month is a net pecuniary 
#ain to the Pramukh from his Office. The Office of Pramukh is thus an Office 
of profit within the meaning of Article 102(1) (a) of the Constituency. 


On behalf of the Respondent it was contended that the Honorarium of Rs- 300 
per month works out to Rs 10 per day and even if it is assumed that the Pramukh 
Halt® outside Ajmer for more than eight hours on every day of the month the 
•maximum (amount which he can make per day comes to only Rs. 15 which is 
such a small amount that it should be taken to cover only the out of pocket 
expenses of the Pramukh. I am unable to accept this contention. As I have 
pointed out above all the out-of-pocket expenses of the Pramukh are covered 
by the travelling allowance and the daily allowance to which he is entitled under 
the rules and the monthly Honorarium which he gets is the net gain to him from 
the Office. This gain must be treated as ‘“profit”. 

Another contention was that the Honorarium is not attached to the Office as 
■under fhe rules if the Office is held by a Member of Parliament or a Member 
cf the Legislative Assembly then he Is not entitled to any Honorarium- This 
argument is fallacious. All that we are concerned is as to whether the Respondent 
was holding an Office of ‘‘profit’’ when he filed his nomination paper. In other 
words we have to find out whether ho was likely to make profit from the Office 
which he was holding. The answer to that question is that he was- As Pramukh 
he was entitled to an Honorarium of Rs- 300 per month by virtue of being a 
Pramukh- In his case therefore the Honorarium was attached to the Office which 
he was holding- 

issue No- 1(B) 

The amount of Rs. 300 has been referred to as Honorarium in the rules. In 
the Act there is a provision for giving allowance to the members under section 81- 
In my opinion it makes no diilerence whether this amount is called 'salary' or 
‘allowance’ or ‘Honorarium’. All these expressions almost mean the same thing- 
According to Webster's Third New International Dictionary — 

Salary means: 1. fixed .compensation paid regularly for services; 

2- (a) remuneration for service given: fee, honorarium; 

(b) reward /reccmpensation. 

Allowance means ; a sum granted as a reimbursement or bounty or as appropriate 
i< c such purposes as personal or household expenses 

Honorarium means : an honorary payment of reward usually given as compen- 
sation for services on which custom or propriety forbids any 
fixed business price to be set. 

Members of Parliament are entitled to a salary of Rs. 500 per month and a 
Daily Allowance at the rate of Rs. 31 per day under the Salaries and Allowances 
of Members of Parliament Act, 1954- In this Act the fixed amount payable 
monthly to Members of Parliament has been referred to as “Salary”. It can 
also be called "allowance” honorarium, are all given as compensation for services. 
But the term “Compensatory Allowance’’ has been used in the Parliament (Pre- 
vention of disqualification) Act, 1959 in a special sense which will be dealt with 
under Issue No- 1 (D). 

Issue No. 1(C) 

The respondent remained on leave from 18th January, 1967 In 7lh April, 1967, 
and did not draw any Honorarium for this period. He was not entitled to draw 
any honorarium for leave beyond 20 days in a year under the rules. For the 
first 20 days of his leave he was entitled to draw Honorarium- Dven if he were 
not entitled to draw and honorarium at the time when he filed his nomination 
paper that would make no difference- For he was nevertheless holding an Office 
of profit at thjt time ard was accordingly disqualified for being chosen as a 
Member of Porll ament. This' legal position was not disputed by the learned 
counsel for the respondent- 

Issue No- 1(D) 

On behalf of the respondent it Is claimed that the Office of profit falls under 
section 3(1) of the Parliament (Prevention of Disqualification) Act, 1959 and 



Skc. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 29, I967/ASVINA I, 1889 3389 


•ccordlngly he was not. disqualified lor being chosen as a Member of Parliament. 
Section 3(1) runs as follows:— 

3- Certalh Offices of profit not to disqualify. — 

it is hereby declared that none of the following Offices, In so far as it is an 
Office of profit under the Government of India or the Government of 
any State, shall disqualify the holder thereof for being chosen as. dr 
for being, a Member of Parliament, namely 


(i) the Office of Chairman, Director or Member of any statutory or 
non-statutory body other than any such body as Is referred to In 
clause (h), if the holder of such Office Is not entitled to any remu- 
neration other than Compensatory Allowance " 

Compensatory Allowance 19 defined under section 2(a) as follows : — 
“Compensatory Allowance" means any sum of money payable to the 
holder of an Office by way of Dally Allowance [such Allowance not 
exceeding the amount of Daily Allowance to which a Member of 
Parliament is entitled under the Salaries and Allowances of Members 
of Parliament Act, 1954 (30 of 1954)], any conveyance allowance, house 
tent allowance or travelling allowance for the purpose of enabling 
him to recoup any expenditure incurred by him in performing the 
functions of that Office;” 

The Office of Pramukh is no doubt the Office of Chairman of a Statutory Body. 
But the remuneration to- whjch the Pramukh is entitled is not confined to “Com- 
pensatory Allowance" as defined in the Act. “Compensatory Allowance" can cover 
only such sums* ns are payable by way of — 

(i) dally allowance; 

• ii) conveyance allowance. 

(lii) house rent allowance; 

(iv) travelling allowance; 

The Pramukh is entitled to monthly honorarium besides travelling and daily 
allowance. This monthly honorarium cannoi be treated as Daily Allowance, It 
fls true that a Member of "Parliament is entitled to a Daily Allowance of Rs. 31 
per dav and if the Pramukhs were entitled only to draw Daily Allowance upto 
Rs- 31 per day and not to any Monthly Allowance then he would be exempt from 
disqualification under the Act- But as is entitled to draw a Monthly Allowance 
or Honorarium be is not exempt from disqualification, under this Act- 

As however I have held above that the Pramukh does not hold an Office under 
the Government he Is not disqualified for being chosen as a Member of Parliament 
under Articl* 1 102(])(aj. 

Issue No. 2(A) 

Article 32 of the Constitution provides for readjustment of Constituencies after 
pach census. Article 327 enables Parliament to make provision for the delimitation 
of Constituencies by law. Such provisions was made after the 19G1 census by 
the Delimitation Commission Act. 1962- The Delimitation Commission which was 
constituted under this Act published 1 , an Order under section 10(1) Delimiting 
Parliamentary and Assembly Constituencies in the State of Rajasthan. This order 
was published in the Rajasthan Gazette. According to this Notiflcatipn the Ajm^r 
Parliamentary Constituency comprised of the following Assembly Constituencies:— 
(i) Ajmer East — (86). 

(ii) Ajmer West — (87). 

(iii) Pushkar — (88). 

'(iv) Naslrahad' — (98| 

(v) Beawar — (DO;. 

(vl) Masuda — (.91). 

(vii) Kumbhalgarh — (136). 

(viii) Bhim— (137). 

The first six of the above Corstituencies are in Ajmer District. Kumbhalgarh 
Mid Bhim Assembly Constituencies are in Udaipur District. In tha year 1902 
Kumbhalgarh and Bhim Assembly Constituencies were not included in Ajmer 
Parliamentary Constituency. All the Assembly Constituencies included in Ajmer 
Parliamentary Constituency were in Ajmer District. 




3390 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 25, I967/ASVINA I, 1889 [Part II- 


The contention on behalf of the petitioner is that section 10(2) of the Delimf- 
tation Commission Act, 196!2 which lay? down that upon tne publication, in the 
Gazette every such order shall have the force of law and shall not be called In 
question In any Court is void as by enacting such a provision the Paihament 
etraccd itself- It is argued that the Parliament should have made provision in 
the Act making it incumbent on the Delimitation Commission to obtain the ap~ 
proval of Parliament before the Delimitation Order could be treated as having 
the (force of law which could not be called in question In any Court- These 
contentions have no toice- 

^ e: Delhi Laws Act( ] 0) the majority consisting of Kama C. J-, Mahajan, 
Mukherjee and Bose JJ. held that the legislature in India whether established he- 
fore or after the Constitution could, as a rule, delegate its legislative power 
to other bodies subject to its exercising essential legislative function which consist 
in laying down a policy or a rule of conduct to guide the exercise of delegated 
authority. Legislative policy could not be left to the discretion of the delegate 
but where such policy was laid down by the legislature the rest could be validly 
delegated. 

Under section 9 of the Delimitation Commission Act. 1962 the parliament laid 
down the principles on the basis of which the constituencies were to be delimited,; 1 
It made provision for the publication by the Commission of its proposals for de- 
limitation of conRilueneics, for inviting objections and for the consideration of, 
these objections at public sittings. It was after such consideration that the pro-,, 
posals were to be finalised. In these circumstances, It cannot be held that the 
parliament abdicated its legislative function or effaced Itself. 

Issue No. 2(B). — In view of finding on issue No. 2(a) inclusion of Kumbhal- 
garh and Bhim constituencies jn Ajmer Parliamentary Constituency by the Delimi- 
tation Commission is valid 

T-siie No. 2(0 — As was held by their Lordships of the Supreme Court In 
Meghray Kotlmri V. Delimitation Commission and others! 11 ) the Delimitation 
Commission Act, 1962 was made by Parliament in exercise of its power under 
Article 327 of the Constitution, binder Article 329(a) of the Constitution the 
validity of this lay- cannot e challenged In any court. It cannot be challenged In 
an election petition under section 90 of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951 which is to be tried by- the High Court. It can also not be challenged by 
virtue of the provisions contained in section 8(1) of th e Representation of the 
People Act, 1950, which runs- as follows : — 

“8, ConsoHdation of delimitation orders . — (1) as soon as may be, after all 
the orders inferred to in sub-section (fit of section 4 or in sub-section (3) of 
section 7 relating to the delimitation of parliamentary and Assembly constituencies 
have been made by Delimitation Commission or, as the case may be, the Election 
Commission and published In the Official Gazette, the Election Commission shall, 
after making such amendments as appear to it to be necessary for bringing up-to- 
dafe the des< ription of foe extent of the parliamentary and assembly constituencies 
as given in such orders consolidate ull such orders into one single order to be 
known as the Dc imitation of Parliamentary and Assembly Constituencies Order, 
1966 and shall send authentic copies of that order to the Central Government ana 
to the Government or such Staffi having a Legislative Assembly; and thereupon 
that Order shall supersede- all the orders referred to in sub-section (5) of section 
4 or in sub-section (3) of section 7 and shall have the force of law and shall not 
be called in question in any court.” 

Consolidator] Delimintatiou of parliamentary and Assembly Constituencies 
Order, 1960 was published by the Election Commission of India in accordance with 
the above provision. 

Issue No. 3. Polling tor the Aimer Parliamentary Constituency took Place 

Simultaneously with the polling for the Assembly Constituencies comprised in 
the Aimer Parliamentary Constituency, The District Election Officer, Aj ner 
fixed the pul 1 lug stations and appointed presiding and polling officers for them so 
far as assembly constituencies lying in Ajmer District were concerned. I he Dis- 
trict Election Officer Udaipur fixed the Polling stations and appointed presiding 
and Polling Officers for them so tar as Bhim and Kumbhalgarh assembly consti- 
tuences are concerned, The Returning Officers of Assembly constituencies acted 
as Assistant Returning Officers for the parliamentary constituency in which they 
were included. Two ballot papers were given to each e’ector, one for parfia-- 
mentary constituency and the other for assembly constituency, and aitei they had 
been marked they were put in the same ballot box. 

( 10 ) AIR i95i 3.C. 332. 

C 11 ) AIR 1967 S.C. 669. 



Sec. S(ii)] I HE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA 1, 1889 3391 


Section 13-AA, of the Representation of the People Act, 1950 provides for 
1 the appointment of a District Election officer in each Disti lot by the Election 
Commission in consultation with the Government of the State. 

Sections 25 and 26(1) of the Representati n of the People Act, 1951 run as 
follows: 

“25, Provision of polling stations for constituencies-— The district election officer 
shall, with the previous approval of the Election Commission, provide a sufficient 
number of po ling stations for every constituency the whole or greater part of 
which lies within his jurisdiction, and shall publish, in such manner as tho Election 
Commission may direct, a list showing the polling stations so provided and the 
polling areas or groups of voters lor which they have respectively been provided-” 

“26. Appointment of presiding Officer for polling stations- — (1) The district 
election officer shall appoint a presiding officer for each polling station and such 
polling officer of officers as he thinks necessary, but he shall not appoint any per- 
son who has been employed by or on behalf of. or has been otherwise working 
for, a candidate in or about the election : 

Provided that if a polling officer is absent from the polling station, the presid- 
ing officer may appoint any person who is present at the polling station other 
than a person who has been employed by or on behalf of, or has been otherwise 
working for, a candidate in or about the election, to be the polling officer during 
the absence of the former officer, and inform the district election officer accord- 
ingly : 

Provided further that nothing in this sub-section shall prevent the district 
Election officer from appointing the same person to be the presiding officer for 
more than one polling station in the same premises.” 

Under section 25 for purposes of election to the Ajmer Parliamentary Consti- 
tuency the District Election Officer of Ajmer was the competent authority to fix 
the polling stations and to appoint presiding officers and. polling officers in the 
area included in Bhim and Kumbhalgarh constituencies. As has been pointed 
out above the presiding officers, polling officers and the polling stations at which 
votes for tho Ajmer Parliamentary Constituency were cast in the area included 
in Phim and Kumbhalgaih Assembly Constituencies were all nominated by Ihc 
di"P’>t election officer of U' 1 unur. T b."f ".is thus non-compliance with tho 
provisions o' snr'ions 25 and 26 o r I ho Rep ? ■ d.itl n of the People Act. 1951. 

ft was b ’->r 'mt or 1 in Ihc e^c on p^Mt’en that tho lciilt of the 

election war. materially n'T'cte-l \y Ibis non-- unipllnncn. Tl R there! ore of no 
com.ennenr m far 0 , the nr^'cnl election i».litior: i; concerned. In Ihi.s connec- 
tion I -nav refer to dv de^smn of their EorrRhips of the Suoremn Court in 
Vashist Nr rm'n Sb >rma T. Dor Ownd < 1S ' h- order to be able to succeed in 
. having Hie ebetirn of respondent set -wide 01 this ground tho petitioner had to 
* allege in his petition mid to prove that the result of the election was materially 
affected by the ion-complia"ce of the p’'ovR,'ons <f sections 25 and 26 of the 
Represent a h on o' the people Act, 1'51. In oihor words ho had to allege and to 
prove that if lh» polling stations in Bhim and Kumbhalgarh arras had been fixed 
by the District Election Officer. Aimer and the Presiding end Polling Officers for 
them had been apnoin+ed by him then some candidate other than the respondent 
would hive polled a majoritv of valid vofec Tn the absence of any allegation 
Or proof to this effecl the non-compliance of sections 25 and 26 is of no conse- 
quence whatsoever. 

„ Issue No. 4 

As has been point'd out above Hm District Election Officer, Ajmer was the 
District Election Officer for the Aimer Parliamentary Constituency under section 
25 of the Repi mentation of the People Act, 1951 as tlw creator part of tb" consti- 
tuency lay within his jurisdiction. He was the nroper authority before whom 
the return of the election expenses had to be filed by the respondent under 
section 78 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951. As the return was filed 
before him no breach of section 78 was committed by the respondent. 

Even if any breach of section 78 had been committed by the respondent that 
would be no ground for setting aside his election under section 100 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951. 


( la ) X. E.L.R. 30 . 




3392 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1%7/ASVINA 1, 1889 [Part II- 


r 8fue No- 5 

Article 84 of the Constitution inter -alia provides that a person shall not be 
qualified to be chosen to fill a seat in the Parliament unless he makes and subs- 
cribes before some person authorised in that behalf by the Election Commission 
an oath or affirmation according to the form set out for the purpose in the third 
schedule. The respondent took the oath in this form before the Returning Officer. 
His case is that the Returning Officer has been duly authorised ini that behalf 
by the Election Commission by Notification No. S.O. 91, dated 2nd January, 1965, 
published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section 
(ii). This notification superseded an earlier notification dated 14-ffi November 
1963. The material part of the notification on which dispute turns is reproduced 
below: — 

“In pursuance of clause (a) of Article 84 of the Constitution and in super- 
session of its notification No. 3/130/63(1), dated 14th November, 
1963, the Election Commission hereby directs: — 

(a) that a candidate fur election to the House of the People by a Parlia- 
mentary Constituency shall make and subscribe oath or affirmation 
according to form set out for the purpose of third schedule to thtr 
Constitution before the Returning Officer or an Assistant Return- 
ing Officer for the constituency. 

The argument of the learned counsel for the petitioner is that the above 
notification authorises a candidate for election tn the House of the People to 
make and subscribe an oath or affirmation before the Returning Officer or an' 
Assistant Returning Officer of the constituency but does not authorise the Return- 
ing Officer or the Assistant Returning Officer to administer an oath to him. I 
am of the opinion that the intention behind the notification which has expressly 
been, issued under Article 84(a) of the Constitution is to authorise the Returning 
Officer as well as the Assistant Returning Officer of the Constituency to adminis- 
ter oath to a candidate for election to the House of the People. 

The respondent was thus duly qualified to be chosen as a member of Parlia- 
ment under the relevant part of Article 84(a) of the Constitution and hla elec- 
tion is not liable to be set aside on the ground that he was disqualified under 
Article 84(a) of the Constitution. 


Order 

In view of my findings on the above issues the election petition is liable to 
be dismissed 

I accordingly dismiss the election petition with costs. 

There were ten hearings. Out of them the case was adjourned on the first 
three hearings at the request of the respondent to enable him to file a written 
statement. Under Rule 24 of the rules framed by the High Court I assess the 
Advocates’ fees at Rs. 1050 fg > Rs. 150 per hearing for the remaining seven hear- 
ings as more than one counsel appeared for the respondent, 

Authenticated copies of the above judgment shall be sent forthwith to the 
Speaker of the Lok Sabha and the Election Commission under section 103 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951. 

(Sd) Jagat Narain, 

[No. 82/20/67.1 


ORDERS 

New Delhi , the 14th August 1967 

S.O. 3314 — Whereas the Election Commission is saiisfhd that Shrl Mahendra 
Nath Borpatra of Bharalua Gaon, Nawboicha, P.O. Doolahat, Assam, a contest- 
ing candidate for election to the House of the People from Lakhimpur Const!- 
tuency, has failed to lodge any account of his election expenses as required by 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas the said candidate even after due notice has not given any 
reason or justification for the failure; 



Sue. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA I, 1889 3393 


Now, therefore. In pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Mahendra Nath Borpatra to be dis- 
qualified for being chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Par- 
liament or of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a 
period of three years from the date of this Order. 

[No. AS-HP/13 /67 (31).] 

New Delhi, the 5th September 1967 

S.O. 3315. — Whereas Shri Balvir Singh, a contesting candidate for election to 
the House of the People from the Vidisha constituency, failed to lodge any 
Recount of his election expenses as required by the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, ar.d the Rules made thereunder, and was given due notice of such 
failure; 

And whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that the account since 
lodged by him has not been lodged in the manner prescribed in the said Act 
and Rules, and he has not furnished any good reason or justification for the 
failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Balvir Singh to be disqualified for 
being chosen as, and fur being, a member of either House oi Parliament or of 
the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a Slate for a period of three 
years from the date of this order. 

[No, MP-HP/29/67/j 


New Delhi, the 6th September 1967 

S.O. 3316.^-Whereas the Election Commission Is satisfied thal Shri A. Kulase- 
karan of No. 2— Mandapam Street, Gingee, South Arcot District, Madras State a 
contesting candidate for election io the House of the People from 9 — Tindlvanam 
Parliamentary constituency, in the State of Madras has failed to lodge an account 
of his election expenses within the time and in the manner required by the Re- 
presentation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, after considering the representation made by the said candidate, 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that h" has no good reason or justi- 
fication for the failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri A. Kulasekaran to be disqualified ,for 
being chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of 
the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this order. 

[No. MD-HP/9/67/j 


New Delhi, the 8th September 1967 

S.O. 33X7. — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Pravin 
Chandra Ramniklal Keshani a contesting candidate for election to the House of 
the People from Bombay North West constituency- has failed to lodge an account 
of his election expenses as required by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, 
and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any good 
reason or explanation for the failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Ejection Com- 
mission hereby declares the said Shri Pravin Chandra Ramniklal Keshani to bo 
disqualified i'nr being chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Par- 
liament or >'f ihe Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a 
period of three years from the date of this Order. 

[No. MT-HP/7/67.] 


New Delhi, the 11 th September 1967 

S.O. 331? -Whereas the Eleitin i Ci»nr,u jr Jo-i Is satisfied that Slui Mahavir 
Prasad, M i i^vir Gardens, Shirr.ir, P O. Raiso 1 . Kvlu (Himachal Pradesh', a 
contesting cind'date for elecPon to the House of Lbr Triple from Mahasu con- 
stituency. has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses within the time 




3394 ™ E GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 28 , 1967/ASVINA 1 , 1889 [Pait iI- 


and in the manner required by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and 
the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, after considering the representation made by the said candidate, 
the Election Commission is further satisfied thnt he has no good reason or justifi- 
cation for the failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election Com- 
mission hereby declares the said Shri Mahavir Prasad to be disqualified for being 
chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three year® 
from the date of this order, 

[No. HP-HP/1/67.] 

New Delhi, the 13th September 1967 • 

S.O. 3319- — Whersas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Mai Lai 
Dhani Kishan Dutt, Hlssar a contesting candidate for election to the House of 
the People from Hissar constituency, has failed to lodge an account of his -election 
expenses as required by the Representation of the People Act, 1961, and the Rule* 
made thereunder; 

And whereas, after considering the representation made by the said candidate, 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good reason or justifi- 
cation for the failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election Com- 
mission hereby declares the said Shri Mai Lai to be disqualified for being chosen 
as, and for being, a member of either Hquse of Parliament or of the Legislative 
Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years from the 
date of this order. 

[No. HN-HP/8/67.1 
1 By Order, 

K- S. RAJAGOPALAN, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF ROWE AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the IHRi Sent -mber 1D67 

SO 3320. — In exercise of ilic row-'rs conferred by clause (1) of article 258 
of flie 'Const’i utior , tba Pro- kc'nl. with -lie cement of ihe Government of West 
Bengal, hereby t ' 'lists to r 1 ,i’ Government, Uic functions of the Cent al Govern- 
ment in relation to nuv m*' 1 - '-r:ci'5 r d m sub-clauses (c) and (d) of clause (8) 
of section 2 of Ihe ObieiM -r-ts Act 1923 (39 of 1 923), subject to the condi- 
tion" that r, a' with dandi”" Mich enlnul'ment the said functions may also be 
exercised by the Cenhai Government. 

[No. 21/24/07-Poll.II,] 
S. S. VARMA Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the ech September 1967 

S.O. 3321.— In continuation of para 2 of Notification No. M.TI-1181(4) /07 
dated the 8th August 1967. published in the Gazette of India dated the 20th 
August 1967, under SO No. 2879, the following three members have been co- 
opted under clause (1) of Sub-scction (1) of Section 4 of the Ilaj Committee Act, 
1959:— 

(1) Smt Shirin S. Somjcc, 

Mulchand Bhawau, II Floor, 

Balkeshwar, BOMBAY-6. 

(2) Shnhzada Shahbirbhai Saheb Nuruddln, 

Al-Azhar, Saifl Mahal, 

Pawn! Road, Malabar Hill, 

BOMBAY-8. 


Ikc. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23. 1 967/ AS VINA ], 1889 3395 


(3) Shri Mustafa Gulam Nabi Fakl, 

House No- 77, Contractor Bldg., 

Part D, 3rd Floor, Flat No. 7. 

Hughes Road, 

BOMBAY-7. 

[No. M.IIT181 (4) /ST.f 
T. T- P- ABDULLAH, 

Director, Personnel & Ha) Affair", 

f*#5T 

ftesft, 5 flMT 1967 

3322.-26 'tUT^T 1967 % 7T3IW R tTRo sfto Ro 2879 % STOW 
A smfror tio pr II- ii8i(4)/67 , i967%?tt 2 % ’Eff if 

flftifff stfaffror 1959 r *utt 4, tt sm ( 1 ) % (rur) % sfdTO fawfafw 

j to Ripftfsrcr Wr nt | 1 

1 / wW t[Ro RRrsfY, jjtot? spiff, Rfsrn, su^i-e 

2. ] 5TTf¥RT Wk VTlf TOtST TdW ff>, DTHT^TT 

fo't, £— 6 

3. mffpm ffkr, rttr ff° 77, ffffrsff, wto ‘m’, 

df.’i V vrfypT, ffffff ffo ”, 3 * * * 7 'F, ffWt-7. 

[ffo W 11-118 I (4)/67.] 

- U T i” ' T'fiTHT, 

.’■U'F.'.i o.i p-r^UFur) 1 


MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM AM) CHEMICALS 


New Delhi, the 2nd September 11)67 

S.O. 3323,— Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is neces- 
sary in the public lnLorest that for the transport of petroleum from the Gujarat 
Refinery, Baroda in Gujarat State to Ahmedabad in Gujarat State pipelines 
should he laid by the Oil and Natural Gas Commission and that for the purpose 
of laying such pipelines it is necessary to acquire Hie right of user In the land 
' described in the Schedule annexed hereto: 


2. Now, therefore, in exercise of the j nv -r:- . - _~d ir , n of 

section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition ol Right of U^er in Land) Act, 
1982 (50 of 1062) the Central Government hereby d Hm-es its intention to acauire 
the right of user therein. 


3- Any person interested in the said land may, within 21 days from the date 

of this notification, object, to the laying of the pipelines under the land to the 

competent authority at LMP Building, 4th Floor. Snyaji Ganj, Baroda in the 
"-office of the Gujarat Pipeline Project, Oil and Natural Gas Commission. Every 

person making such an objection shall also state specifically whether he wishes 

to be heard in person or by a legal practitioner. 



3396 1 HE 

GA>.EL TE OF INDIA; 

SEPTEMBER 23 , 

1967 / AS VINA 

1 , 1889 [Part It- 



Schedule 



State Guiuat 

Distt. Ahmedabad 

Taluka : City 

Village 

No. 

Hector 

Are 

P. Are 

Chandlod’.i 

1 19/2 

0 

12 

14 


Z4S 

0 

6 

58 

Vejalpur 

1 1 i 9 

0 

5 

6 

Okaf 

211 

0 

17 

?6 


[No. 31/41 /64-Prod, Vol- 2-H 
B. S. S- RAO, Under Secy. 


erratum 

New Delhi, the 13 th September 1907 

S,0. 3324.— In the Corrigendum of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Petroleum & Chemicals S.O. No. 450, dated the 23rd January, 1907, published, 
in the Gazette of India, Part II Section 3 sub-section (ii), dated the 11th Febru- 
ary, 1967. 

‘At Page 339 for "Survey No. 516M" read “Survey No. 016M” of village 
Gandhiyon.’ 

[No. 31(50) /63-ONG/OR.] 
V. P. AGARWAL, Under Secy, 


DELHI DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY 

NOTICES 


New Delhi, the 13th September 1967 

Notice under section 11 of the Delhi 
Development Act, 1957 (No- 61 of 1957). 


S.O. 3326.— Notice ig hereby given that: — 

(a) the Central Government have, under sub-section (2) section 9 of the 
Delhi Development Act, 1957, approved the architectural elevation 
control in respect of Sectors 2 and 3 of the Zonal Development Plan 
for Zone D-l (Connaught Place and its extension). 

(b i A copy of the above architectural elevation control as approved may 
he inspected at the office of the Delhi Development Authority, Delhi 
Vikas Bhawan, “D" Block, Indraprastha Estate, New Delhl-1 between 
the hours of 11.00 a.m- and 3-00 p.M- on all working days. 

[No. F. 3(10O)/66-M.P.J 

New Delhi, the 14 th September 1987 

Notice under Section !L o( tne Delhi Development Act. 1937 (No- 61 of 1967). 


S.O. 3326. — Notice is hereby given that:— 

(a) The CenuaL Government have, under sub-section (2) of Section 9 of 
the Delhi Development Act, 1957 (No. 61 of 1957), approved the zonal 
development plan ror Zone D-4 (Parliament Street). 


(b) A copy of the plan as approved pray be inspected at the office of the 
Delhi Development Authority, Delhi Vikas Bhawan, 'D’-BIock, 
Indraprastha Estate, New Delhi-1 between the hours of 11.00 a-m. 

and 3.00 p m on all working days- 

[No. F. 4(2)/63-M,P.} 


B. C. SARKAR, Addl, Secy. 


Sec. 3(ii>] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA 1, 1*89 3397 


ministry of education 

New Delhi, the 11th September 1907 

S.O. 3327. — In pursuance of sub-section (3) of section 31 of the Institutes 
of Technology Act, 1901 (59 of 1901). the Central Government hereby makes the 
following amendment to the notification of the Government of India in the (late) 
Ministry of Scientific Research and Cultural Affairs No. F. 24-5/82-T.6 dated the 
9th May, 1982, as amended by notification No- F- 24-5/82-T.6 dated the 31st Decem- 
ber, 1962, and No. F. 25-3 /03-T 6 dated the 18th May, 1964. namely:— 

In the said amended notifications, for the existing para 2 the following shall 
be substituted: — 

"2- Shri G N- Vaswani, Deputy Educational Adviser (Tech.) in the Minis- 
try of Education, shall act as the Secretary of the Council-” 

[No. F. 10/1/67-T.6.] 

S.O. 3328 — The Lok Sabha having elected S/Shri Ksrtik Oraon and Suraj 
Bhan to be Members of the Council in pursuance of clause (k) of sub-section (2) 
of section 31 of the Institutes of Technology Acl, 1961 (59 of 1961), rhe Central 
Government hereby makes the following amendment in the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Scientific Roscai'ch and Cultural Affairs 
(now Ministry of Education) No. F. 24-5/52-T.6, dated the 9th May, 1962, namely:— 

In the said notification, under the heading ‘‘V. Representatives of the Parlia- 
ment," in item (k), for the existing entries <i) and (il), the following entries 
shall be substituted: — 

“(i) Shri Kartik Oraon, Member, Lok Sabha, New Delhi. 

(ii) Shri Suraj Bhan, Member. Lok Sabha, Nevr Delhi.” 

[No. F. 10/1/67-T.6] 
A. B, CHANDIRAMANI, 

Jt, Educational Adviser (T). 


ftTWT RRTRR 

Tf 11 ftrreVL 1967 

Wt 3329. — (rWT-f WfafaTRT 1961 ( 196 1 RT 594T) r «f?t 
um 3 1 tfV ^rtrm ( 3) w! stjrtn r, tu+T< (rtM) ’f JrrfaR- sfjrrtr rV 

Ripf rfRTRR, RPR *fft !ff81j;TiT Ro Itt^o 24-5/6 2-€Vo 6 faRfaf 

31-12-19 62, R° liRio 25-3/63-^» 6, ftRfal 1 8—5— 1964, ?TRT RRTRFfrftlR 

RfsTRRRT tfo trrfio 24-5/62-2ft° 6, tW+7 9-5-1 962 R fRPffR%R RRttfR *iTRV 

f, 1 — 

RRJW RRtftFT trffRTRFlRf R f^RTR ^TT 2 ^ RTR TT f-GRf%fRf-r fan? fed 

UTR, 

“2 ^ 'sfVo RT o RTRRhfi, RT filOT RRTRTTT (RTdWi), fTTSTT RRTT', 'rfjRR 
R? ' 'fTt $ RT R RRR LPTf” I 


[R o (Tfi o 10—1 /« 7— ffc c] 

PRo gflo 333 0. RfRPf RfRfRRR, 196 1 (>931 y;r 

DPI 31 TT RTRPT ( 2) R (z) $ SRRTR if sjfar RRT WTU RpTR 

RRRR7R ^ 'rf<TT $ RTR RP? TT, ■■-TtR7F r , TR'.PfT TRRRT=f 



3398 THE GAZETTE of INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA 1, 1889 [Par-. II- 

Titf wm (?ur faerr R'aiuh), w*f .ft stt^ht r p 24 - 5 - 

62 -ft<> fi farTrrr 9-5-62 t t -ifm dt 4;, wfa :— 

sp^Vt ’Tftm-^TT w ''V-Rffif f q ffer' 1 sfitNr f *? .if ft (-.) r ft. ,‘. h 

TPifV (i) rfr r (ii) f i^rr, iV-rf-idTi %?-ff r z<ri f^nsr -riif : — 

“(i) «fV TTffrr smta, 

RFk ahi, Tf fcft 1 
(ii) «fr^*rnT, 

ffp ?r*rr, df f^rV 1" 

[fo JTCpo l0/l/67-fto 6] 

no ?o ^nfm'mft, 

r\ 

w - ftrerr w^TT^nv- 1 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH & FAMILY PLANNING 
(Department of Health) 

New Delhi , the Qth September IB 67 

S.O. 3331. — In pursuance of clause (d) of rule 2 of the Indian Medical Coun- 
cil (Election of Licentiates) Rules, 1905 published with the notification of the 
Government of India in the late Ministry of Health No. G.S.R- 216 dated the 
5th February, 1965, the Central Government hereby appoints the following officers 
as “Returning Officer’’ and “Assistant Returning Officer” for the conduct of 
election of members to the Medical Council of India under clause (d) tf sub- 
section (1) of section 3 of the Indian Medical Council Act. 1956 (102 of 1956); 
namely: — 

1. Dr. M. J. H. Writer, Assistant D1 eelor General (RID, Dircc'-jratc G< 

ral Health Services. New Delhi — -Returning Officer- 
2 Shri K. Gangava, Depot' Assistant Director General (Stores), Directo- 
rate General oX/I7eaUa Servl -es. New Delhi — Assistant Returning 
Officer- 

[No. F. 4-3/65-MPT.] 
V, It SAMANTROY, Under Secy. 


( '£!■ ‘rtmenl of Health) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 15th September 1967 

S.O. 3332. — Where the Government of India in the lato Ministry of Health 
has, by notification No, 16-23/61-MI, dated the 28th February, 1962, made in 
exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 14 of the Indian 
Medical Council Act, 1956 (102 of 19561, recognised the medical qualification 
M.B.B.S., granted by the University of Adelaide, South Australia for the purposes 
of ihe said Act; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by tbei proviso to sub- 
section (1) of section 14 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (102 of 1950), 
the Central Government hereby specifies a further period of two years with 
effect from the 11th August, 1906 or so long as Dr. James William, McMillan, 
who possesses the said qualification, continues to work in the Sankeshwar Mis- 
sion Hospital and Silver Jubilee Leprosy Hospital, Sankeshwar, (Belgaum Dis- 
trict) to which he is attached for the time being for the purposes of teachine. 
research or charitable work, whichever is shorter, a<t the period to which the 
■medical practise of the said Dr, Janies William McMillan, shall be limited 

[No. F, 19-9/67-MPT.| 
L. K, MURTHY, Under Secy. 



3399 


Sec. 9(il)] THF GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1%7/ASVINA 1. 1889 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT & COMPANY AFFAIRS 
(Department of Company Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 12th September 1967 

S.O. 3333. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections (1) and (2) of 
section 609 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), the Central Government 
hereby directs that there shall be an office at Now Delhi for the purpose of the 
registration of companies under the said Act in the State of Haryana and 
appoints the Registrar of Companies, Delhi, as Registrar for the registration of 
companies under the said Act in the said State as well, and makes the following 
amendment to the notification of the Government of India in the Department of 
Company Affairs No. S.O. 3272 dated 31st October, 1966, namely:— 

In the said notification, the words "in the State of Haryana and” and the 
words "In the said State, and” shall be omitted- 

2. This notification shall come into force on the 3rd October, 1907. 

TNo. 4(25)-G/00T 
M- C- VARMA, Under Secy. 


if ter-fT, t .> ffpTFtT T , 19 6 7 

ttfTo tffo 3334. — TEff-fr TfsTfUTR 1956 ( 1956 l) FT l T,“ r )!» fift 

TTdTU ( : ) TTT ( 2 ) Tr T r TUT TT 5f TTff frr V' 7T, iu-.fgRT 

, TU r 1 ifi jfn'W V ti>T‘T 1 ff J ‘<TrfiT UTT if TiTTfUTV fiT T id, V fh GU, if fcwTT 
if TTsp- urfrUT TtTT, TIT T-ffT T ffTT, fU-TT, V ~ T -T TfT JTUd'i TfafaTT % 

dUffJTT, rrii-TTf TT TsftT^lT ' r '^1 T fUT pUTdcf dUTT f, ny 

TTPTTt TT^ .VdT'T Tu ’4?<J j f'TT TfidT n j i° Tfo 3272 fdTTsu 3 1 IflhfiR 

f’-TTfifuf^ RTlSRT £ ' — 

TdT JlfETTlRT T “r r f 7Tr TRT T T jfi p Tdl my UW *1, <T«il ’ EBd H 1- ?! 

{ft I 

2. T? trfT^TTT fUTTT 3 m(,7 *T HUJ Stiff I 

[ffo 4f 25)— dfto/66] 
rCffo iffo urf, 5TT T RfM* I 


(Department of Industrial Development) 

ORDER 

New Delhi , the 7th September 1907 

S.O. 3335. — Whereas Brig, T, B. Poduval, who was appointed as a member 
of the Motor Car Quality Enquiry Committee set up under the Government of 
India, Ministry of Industrial Development and Company Affairs S.O- No 2373 
dated lltb July 1907. has resigned; 



3400 THE GAZETTE OE INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA 1, 1889 [Part II- 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 15 of the Indus- 
tries (Development and Regulation; Act. 1951 (65 of 1951), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby makes the following amendment to the above mentioned order pub- 
lished at pages 1233-1234 of the Gazette of India Extraordinary in Part II Section 
3, Sub-section (ii) dated the 11th July 1987 namely:— 

The following entry In the said order shall be deleted: — 

“2. Brig. T. B- Poduval, Officer on Special Duty, Ministry of Defence, New 

Delhi’’ 

[No. F. l(37)/87-A.E.Ind(I).I 
R. V. SUBRAHMANIAN, Jt- Secy. 


(Department of industrial Development 
(Iddlatt Standards Institution) 

New Delhi , the 5th September, 1967 

S.O. 3336. — In pursuancejof sub-regulations (2) and (3) of regulation 3 of the Indian Stand- 
ard; Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, I955, the Indian Standards Institution here- 
by notifies that the Indian Standard(s), particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto 
annexed have been established during the period 16 to 31 August, 1967. 

The Schedule 


' Serial No. and Title of the Indian No. and Title of the Indian Brief particulars 
No. Standard Established Standard or Standards, if any, 

superseded by the new 
Indian Standard 


(I) (2) 


(3) 


(4) 


IS : 332-1967 Specification 
for chromium potassium 
sulphate (chrome alum) 
( first revision). 


IS : 332-1951 Specification 
for chrome alum potash. 


Thin standard prescribes th« 
requirements and methods 
of test for chromium pot- 
assium sulphate for use in 
tanning industry and pro. 
cessing of photographic 
materials (Price Rb. 3 ■ 50) , 


2 


IS : 1536-1967 Specifica- 
tion for centrifugaliy cast 
( spun) iton pressure pipes 
for water, gas and sewage 

(first revision). 


IS : 1536-1960 Specifica- 
tion for centrifugaliy cast 
(spun) iron pressure pipes 
for water, gas and sewage. 


'his standard covers the 
requirements for centri- 
fugaliy cast (spun) iron 
pipes for pressure main 
lines for water, gas and 
sewage, manufactured in 
metal or sand moulds 
(Price Rs 7-00) 


3 


IS : 1595-1967 Specifica- 
tion for enamelled round 
copper wire with high 
mechanical properties 
(first revision). 


IS : 1595-1960 Specifics- This standard covers the 
tion for enamelled high- requirements of cnamalled 
conductivity annealed high conductivity annealed 
round copper wire (synth- round copper wires with 
etic enamel) high mechanical proper- 

ties of sizes 0 050 to 
4 ■ 000 mm in diameter 
(bare) and used for 
winding coils of ins- 
truments, electrical machi- 
nery and apparatus (Price 
Ra 8 ■ 00) 






■Sec. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23 , 1967/ASVINA 1. 1889 3401 

■ = = — ===== » === 1 

(1) (2) (3) (4) 


IS : 1832-1962 Spedfica- 
tion for rolling and cutt- 
ing tolerance* for hot- 
rolled iteel product*. 


This standard lays dow» 
rolling and cutting toler- 
ances for hot rolled 
Structural Steel beams, 
channels, equal and un- 
equal leg angles, tee bars, 
bulb angles, angles with 
legs of unequal width and 
thickness, rdund and 
quare bars (other than 
ars meant fbr fastener*). 


A IS : 1852-1967 Specifica- 

tion for rolling and cutting 
tolerances Fot hot-rolled 
steel products ( first revi- 
sion). 


3 IS : 1880- 1067 Specifica- 
tion for Zinc oxide for 
electroplating. 


<6 IS : 2338 (Part II)-I967 
Code of practice for finish- 
ing of wood and wood- 
based materials Part II 
schedules. 


7 IS : 2369-1967 Method for 
determination of absorb- 
encv of absorbent textile 
materials (first revision). 


B IS : 2598-1966 Safety code 
for industrial radiogra- 
phic practice. 


flats, plates, strip* and 
sheets conforming to IS : 
226-1962, IS : 961-1962, 
IS : _ 1977-1962, IS : 
2062-1962 and relevant 
dimensional standards 
Trice Rs . 6 • 00) 

This standard pfecribea the 
requirements and the 
methods of sampling and 
test for zinc oridC used 
in electro- plating (Price 
Rs. 6- 00) 

This standard lays down 
schedules for finishing 
of wood and wood-based 
materials with paints, var- 
nishes, polishes and other 
organic coatings (Price 
Rs. 3 ’50). 

This standard prescribes a 
method for determination 
of absorbency of absorbent 
textile materials, such as 
cotton gauze and cotton 
wool. (Price Rs. 2- 00). 

This safety standard describ- 
es the effects of radiation 
exposure on personnel and 
lays down the maximum 
permissible dose to ensure 
protection against the ex- 
posure of personnel en- 
gflgcdinthe use of ionizing 
radioatton in the industrial 
fie] d. It further outlines in 
details the methods of 
ratiation survey, site moni- 
toring and personnel moni- 
toring and the measures 
necessary for protection 
againbt radiation exposure 
from different sources of 
radiation. It also describes 
the medical supervision of 
radiation workers and lays 
down the responsibility of 
the management in ensur- 
ing safety of personnel. 
(Price Rs. 12- 50). 


IS : 2369-1963 Method for 
determination of absorb- 
ency of highly absorbent 
materials such as cotton 
gauge and cotton wool. 




3402 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; SEPTEMBER 23, I907/ASVINA 1, 1889 (Tart II- 


(I) (2) 


(3) 


(4) 


9 IS : 2720 f Part XXIV)-i967 

Methods of test for soils 
Part XXIV determination 
of base exchange capacity. 

10 IS : 2720 (Part XX V> 1967 

Methods of test for soils 
Part XXV determination 
of silica sesquioxidc ratio. 

11 IS : 3088-1967 Method for 

assaying of fine grade pal- 
ladium. 


12 IS : 3274-1967 Specification 

for goose-neck ventilators 
— welded type. 

13 IS 1*3333 (Part IV) - 1967 

Dimensions for petroleum 
i ndustry pipe threads Part 
IV buttress casing threads. 


14 IS : 3579-1966 Methods of 
test for oilseeds. 


15 IS : 3746-1966 Graphical 
symbols tor coal prepara- 
tion plant. 


16 IS : 3752-1967 Methods of 
test for alcoholic drinks. 


17 IS 13840-1966 Specification 
for lining leathers. 


18 IS : 3975- 1967 Specifica- 
tion lor mild steel wires* 
strips and tapes for armour- 
ing cables. 


19 IS : 4014 (Part I)-i967 Code 
of practice for steel tubular 
scaffolding Part I defini- 
tions and materials. 


This standard lays down the 
method for the determina- 
tion of baee (cation) ex- 
change capcity of soil*. 
(Price Rs, 2.00). 

This standard lays down the 
method for determining the 
silica sesquioxide ratio of 
soils. (Price Rs. 2.50). 

This standard prescribes the 
method for determining 
the purity of fine grade*- 
alladium as laid down Ip 
S : 3096-1965. (Price 
Rs. 1.50). 

This standard specifies the 
requirements of goose-neck 
ventilators. (Price Rs, 2-5q) 

This standard coveres basic 
profile, dimensions and 
to) crances of butteress cas- _ 
ing threads used in petrol 
leum industry. (Price 
Rs. 2' 50). 

This standard prescribes the 
methods of teBtfor oilseeds 
including ihe oil bearing 
fruitR. (Price Rs. 3.50), 

This standard prescribes 
standard symbols for use 
in the basic process flow 
diagrams and others relat- 
ing to coal preparation 
plants. (Pri ce Rs. 3.00) . 

This standard prescri bes the 
methods of test for alco- 
holic drinks. (Price Rs, 

7.00) . 

This standard prescribes the 
requirements* methods of 
sampling and test for lin- 
ing leathers made from 
goat, sheep and calfskins 
and cowhides. (Price Rs. 

6.00) . 

This standard covers the 
requirements and test for 
galvanized steel wire, 
strips and galvanized or 
ungalvanized tapes for 
armouring of cable* 
(Price Rs 3-50). 

Thi s code covers common^ 
definitions and general ’ 
guidance in regards to 
selection of materials for 
tubular scaffoldings(Prlce 
Rs 2-50). 



S*c. 3(h)] THU GAZETTE OF INDIA; SEPTEMBER 2S, 1W7/ASVINA 1, 1889 3403 



20 IS ; 4020-1967 Methods of 
tests for wooden flush 
doors : type tests 


21 IS : 4046-1967 Specifica- 
tion for gents cotton knit- 
ted briefs 


22 IS : 4071-1967 Specifica- 
tion for fish weights 


23 IS : 4102-1967 Specifica- 
tion for leather for shutt- 
lecock caps 


24 IS : 4105-1967 Specifica- 
tion for styrene (vinyl ben- 
zene) 


25 IS : 4121-1967 Method of 

test for determination of 
water transmission rate by 
capillary action through 
natural building stones 


This standard covers methods 
of test for flush doors for 
evaluating their perfor- 
mance; the following tests 
have been covered ; 

(a) Humidity tests ; 

(1) Varying humidity 

test, and 

(2) Differential humidity 
test. 

Note — End-immersion test 
is covered as an ‘accept- 
ance test’ in the specifi- 
cation for flush doors. 

(b) Dynamic tests : 

(1) Slamming test, 

(2) Impact indentation 
test, and 

(3) Shock resistance test. 

(c) Static tests : 

(1) Edge loading test; 
(a) Diagonal comer 
loading tests ; 

(3) Flexure tests (or, single 
comer loading test); 

(4) Screw holding power 
test; and 

(5) Local planeness test 
(Price Rs 5-00) 

This standard prescribes the 
constructional details and 
other particulars of gents,’ 
cottonknitted briefs (Price 
Rs. 3-5 o) 

This standard covers the 
shape, and dimensions of 
and the materials to be 
used for the fish (lead) 
weights (Price Rs 2 ■ 50) 

This standard prescribes the 
requirements, methods of 
sampling and test for 
aluminium tanned sheep- 
skin intended for shuttle- 
cock caps (Price Rs. 2 • 50) 

This standard prescribes the 
requirements and the met- 
hods of sampling and tesi 
for the material commer- 
cially known as styrene 
(vinyl benzene) (Price Rs. 
8' 00) 

This standard lays down the 
procedure for determina- 
tion of rate of water trans- 
mission rate by capillary, 
action through natura 
building stones (Price Raj 
2 - 00 ) 



3404 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1507/ AS VINA 1, 1889 [Part II- 


i 




3 


4 


26 IS : 4128-1967 Specifica- 
tion for fireman's leather 
boots 


This standard specifies the 
requirements, methods of 
sampling and test for fire- 
men’s leather boots, knee 
high (Wellington type) 
with upper of waterproof 
chrome leather and rubber 
sole (Price Rs. 5-50) 


27 IS : 4134-1967 Recommend- 
ed colour classification of 
rough diamond 


28 IS : 4142-1967 Specifica- 
tion for discus 


29 IS : 4143-1967 Specifica- 
tion for carrom-draughts 


This standard recommend* a 
scheme to facilitate descrip- 
tion for marketing of 
rough diamonds on the 
basis of their colour (Price 
Rs. 1-50) 

This standard lays down the 
material, dimensional and 
constructional requirements 
of two sizes of discus 
(Price Rs 2- 50) 

This standard lays down the 
material, dimensional and 
constructional requirements 
of carrom-draughts (Price 
Rs, 2- 50) 


30 IS : 4158-1967 Specifica- 
tion for solid embedded 
type electric heating ele- 
ments 


This standard covers the 
general, constructional 
safety requirements, and 
the method? of tests of 
solid embedded type 
elements in cast iron or 
any other suitable metal 
performed to receive the 
heating spiral together with 
the embedding material and 
having maximum loading 
of 5 kw (Price Rs 2-50) 


31 IS : 4159-1967 Specifica- 
tion for mineral filled shea- 
thed heating elements 


This standard covers the 
requirements and methods 
for tests for mineral filled 
sheathed heating elements, 
designed to operate on 
voltages not exceeding 250 
volts ac single phase ;o 
c/s or dc under the opera- 
ting conditions specified 
by the manufacturers 
(Price Rs. 2 50) 


Copies of these Indian Standards are available, for sale, with the Indian Standards Institution , 
Manak Bhavan, 9 Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, New Deihi-i and also its branch offices at (i) Bombay 
Mutual Terrace, Sandhurst Bridge, Bombay-7i (ii) Third and Fourth Floors, 5 Chowrunghee App'- 
roach, Calcutta-13, (iii) Second Floor,' Sathyamurthi Bhavan, 54 General Patters Road, Madras-2 
and (iv) 117/418, B, Sarvcdaya Nagar, Kanpur. 


[No, MD, 13: 2] 



Sic. S(il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 2 S, 1967/ASVINA 1, 1889 3405 


New Delhi, the 1 th September 196? 

S O. 3317: In pursuance of regulation 4 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certi- 

fication Marks) Regulations, 1955, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that amend- 
ment (s) to the Indian Standara(s) given in the schedule hereto annexed have been issued unaer 
the powers conferred by the sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 3 of the said Regulations. 


The Schedule 


SI. No. and title of the 
No. Indian Standard 
amended 


No. and date of No. and 
Gazette Noti- date of the 
fication in Amendment 
which the es- 
tablishment 
of the Indian 
Standard was 
notified 


Brief particulars 
of the Amendment 


Date from 
which the 
amendm ent 
B hall have 
effect 


x 


2 


3 4 


5 * 


6 


IS: 1675-1960 Specifi- 
cation for stearic acid, 
technical 


S.O. 341 dated (*) No. 1 (t) Clause 4- 1 and 

II February, December,i966 table 1 have been 
1961 substituted by new 

ones 

(it) No. 2 (it) New clauses i- 
August 1967 2. 1. 1, B-3 and 

B-a have been 
added. 

Clause 4 1 1 has J 
been amended. 


Immediate 

effect. 


2 IS: 2593-1964 Specifi- 
cation for flexible 
cables for miners, cap 
lamps 

S.O.4120 
dated 5 Decem- 
ber, 1964 

No. 1 

August 1967 

(0 Clauses 3 ' 2 and 
82' 5 have been 
amended. 

31 August 
1967 



(ii) A new clause 9 
has been added. 


37 IS: 3167-1965 Specifi- 
cation for cap copper 
alloy strip 

S.O. 664 dated 

5 March, 1966 

N0.2 

June 1967 

Clause t 1 has 
been substituted 
by a new one. 

30 June 

1967 

4 IS: 3231-1965 Specifi- 
cation for electrical 
relays for power 
system protection 

S.O. 664 
dated 5 March 
1966 

No. 2 

July 1967 

A new Note 
number 2 has 
been added and 
the existing note 

31 July 
1967 


numbered as 
Note 1. 


3 IS : 3801-1966 Specifi- 
cation for guavas 


S.O. 913 dated 
18 March, 
1967 


No. 1 
June 1967 


Clause 5-3 has 30 June 

been amended. 1967 


jJ-kptes of these amendment slips are available, free of cost, with the Indian Standards 
Institution, Manak Bhavan, 9 Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, New Delhi- 1 and also its branch offi- 
ces at (i) Bombay Mutual Terraccm Sandhurst Bridge, Bombay-7, (ii) Third and Fourth Floors. 
5 Chowringhee Approach, Calcutta 13, (ifi) Second Floor, Sathyamurthi Bhavan, 54 General 
Patters Road, Aladras and (iv) 117/418 Sarvodaya Nagar, Kanpur. 


[No MD/is: 5 ] 


Neto Delhi , the 8th September 1967 

S.O. 3338 — In pursuance of sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 8 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955, as sub- 
sequently amended, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that twentythree licences particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed, 
have been granted authorizing the licensees to use the Standard Mark. 

The Schedule 

Serial Licence No. 
No. and Date 

(1) (2) 

Period of 

Validity 

Name and Address of the Lic- 

Article/Process covered by the 
Licence 

(6) 

Relevant Indian Standard 

From 

(3) 

To 

(4) 

(5) 

(7) 

1 CM/D- 1484= 
1-8-1967. 

1-8-67 

31-7-68 

M/ s - Tata Fison Industries Ltd, 
431/4 Panchpakhadi Village, 
Balrajeshwar Road, Mulund 
Bombay-80 having their office 
at Ralli House, 21 Ravelin Street, 
Fort, Bombay-i. 

DDT dusting powders 

IS : 564-1961 Specification for 
DDT dusting powders 
(revised). 

2 CM/L-1485, 
10-8-1967. 

16-8-67 

15-8-68 

M/s. Foods Fats & Fertilizers Ltd., 
Tanuku Road, Tadepalligudem, 
West Godawuri Distt- (A.P.) hav- 
ing their office at 115-B, N.S.C. 
Bose Road, Madras-i. 

Malted milk food containing 

cocoa powder. 

IS : 2003-1962 Specification f° r 
malted milk food containin 
cocoa powder. 

3 CM/L-I486, 

10-8-1967. 

16-8-67 

15-8-68 

M/s. Tata Fison Industries Ltd., 
Plot No. 94, Industrial Estate, 
Ambattur, Madras-58. 

Copper oxychloride water disper- 
sible powder concentrates. 

IS : 1507-1966 Specification for 
copper oxychloride water dis- 
persible powder concentrates 
(revised). 

4 CM/L-1487, 
10-8-1967. 

10-8-67 

9-S-68 

M/s. Ashwin Industries, Samalya, 
Distt. Baroda. 

18-litre square tins. 

IS : 916-1966 Specification for 1® 
litre square tins (revised). 

5 CM/L-1488, 

10-8-1967. 

16-8-67 

15-8-6S 

M/s. Assam Bengal Veneer Indus- 
tries, Pvt. Ltd., 32 Canal South 
Road, Calcutta-15 having their 
office at 9 Clive Row, Cal- 
cutta- 1. 

Tea-Chest metal fittings. 

IS : 10-1964 Specification ftV 
plywood tea-chests (second re- 
vision). 

6 CM/L-1489J 

14-8-1967, 

16-8-67 

15-8-68 

M/s. Krishna Miners & Traders, 
12 Industrial Area, Jaipur West 
(Rajasthan). 

BHC dusting powders. 

JS : 561-1962 Specification for 
BHC dusting powders (second 
revision). 


34S>6 THJ GAZETTE OF INDL\ : SEPT EMBER, 25,. 19B7/ASV1NA 1, 1839 - [Part H- 



7 CM/L-149O3 16-8-67 15-8-68 M/s. Polypharm Pvt. Ltd., 29, Sulphuric acid analytical reagent IS : 266-1961 Specification for 

16-8-1967. Panchpakhadi, Opp. Castle Mills, grade only. sulphuric acid (revised). 

Khanna Compound, Agra Road, 

Thana, Maharashtra having their 
office at 8 Tamarind Lane, First 
Floor, Spinnder Bldg., Fort, 

Bombay- 1. 

8 CM/L-1491, 16-8-67 15-8-68 M/s. Polypharm Pvt. Ltd., 29, Nitric acid analytical reagent IS : 264-1950 Specification for 

16*8-1957. Panchpakhadi, Opp. Castle Mills, grade only. nitric acid. 

Khanna Compound, Agra Road, 

Thana, Maharashtra having their 
office at 8 Tamarind Lane, First 
Floor, Spinnder Bldg., Fort, 

Bombay- 1. 

9 CM/L-1492, 16-8-67 15-8-68 M/s. Polypharm Pvt. Ltd., 29, Hydrochloric acid analytical re- IS : 265-1962 Specification for 

16-8-1967. Panchpakhadi, Opp . Castle Mills, agent grade only. hydrochloric acid (revised). 

Khanna Compound, Agra Road, 

Thana, Maharashtra having 
their office at 8 Tamarind Lane, 

First Floor, Spinnder Bldg., Fort 
Bombay- 1. 

10 CM/L-1493, 16-8-67 15-8-68 M/s. Entoma Insecticides &Agro- Endrin emulsifiable concentrates IS : 1310-1958 Specification for 

16-8-1967. Chemicals (Kerala), A-3, Shed, endrin emulsifiable concentrates. 

' Industrial Estate, Clavakot, Pal- 

ghat-2, (Kerala) having their 
office at “Ram-Kripa”, Yakkara 
Road, Palghat-I, (Kerala). 

it CM/L-1494, 1-9-67 31-8-68 M/s. Cement Research Corpn. Integral cement water-proofing IS : 2645-1964 Specification for 

22-8-1967. Pvt. Ltd., 3 Govinda Banerjee compound. integral cement water-proofing 

Lane, Calcutta-33, having their compound, 

office at 15 Gobinda Banerjee 
Lane, Calcutta-33. 

12 CM/L-1495, 1-9-67 31-8-68 M/s. Central Insecticides & Ferti- Malathion water dispeisible IS : 2569-1963 Specification for 

22- 8-1967. lizers, Saki Naka, Vihar Lake powder concentrates. malathion water dispersible 

Road, Bombay-70. powder concentrates. 

13 CM/L-1496, 1-9-67 31-8-68 M/s. Industrial Minerals & Chemi- DDT dusting powder. IS : 564-1961 Specification for 

23- 8-1967. cal Co., Kurla Marol Road, Cha- DDT dusting powders (revised). 

kala, Andheri, Bombay-58 having 
their office at 125, Narayan Dhuru 
Street, Nagdevi, Bombay-3. 

14 CM/L-1497, 1-9-67 31-8-68 M/s. Dhiraj Metal Works, 5, Mill Wrought aluminium utensils. Si C IS : 21-1959 Specification for 

23-8-1967. Para, Rajkot-i, Gujarat. grade. wrought aluminium and alumi- 

_ _ _ _ _ mum alloys for utensils. 


^c. 3(h)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA I, 1889 3407 



15 CM/L-149S, 
25-8-1967- 


l6 GM/L-1499, 
25-8-1967. 


17 CM/L-1500, 

25-8-67. 

18 CM/L-1501, 

29 - 8 - 107 . 


19 CM/L-1502, 

30-8-1967. 

20 CM/L-1503, 

30-8-1967. 


21 CM/L-1504, 
30 - 8 - 107 - 


22 GM/L-1505, 
31-8-107- 


23 CM/L-1506, 
3 I-S-I 07 . 


31-8-68 M/s. Asian Cables Corpn. Ltd., Hard-drawn stranded aluminium 
Pokhran Road, Thana, Mahara- and steel-cored aluminium 
shtra State. conductors for overhead power 

transmission purposes. 


30-8 67 


31-8-68 


31-8-6S 


31-8-68 


29-S-68 


31-8-68 


31-8-68 


31-8-68 


M/s. Rajaram & Brothers (Lessees 
the Gwalior Maize Products Ltd.), 
Mhow-Neemnch Road, Mand- 
saur (M.P.). 

M/s. Central Insecticides & Fer- 
tilizers, no. Industrial Estate, 
Indore (M.P.). 

M/s. Selective Chemicals Pvt. Ltd., 
Ruvapari Road, Bhavnagar (Guj- 
jarat State) having their office at 
Hexamar House, Sayani Road, 
Bombay-28. 

M/s. New Metal Works, 56-E, 
Rasul Jiwa Compound, Clark 
Road, Jacob Circle, Bombay- n. 

M/s. Aeron Steel Rolling Mills, 
Pokhran Road, Majiwada Village 
(Distt. Thana), having their office 
at 24, Baroda Street, Bom- 
bay-9. 

M/s. Aeron Steel Rolling Mills, 
Pokhran Road, Majiwada Village 
(Distt T hana ), having their office 
at 24, Baroda Street, Bombay-9. 

M/s. Usha Martin Black (Wire 
Ropes) Ltd., Tatisilwai, Ranchi 
(Bihar). 


Maize starch for use in the cotton 
textile industry. 

Aldrin dusting powders. 

BHC dusting powders. 


18-litre square tins. 


Structural steel (standard qua- 
lity). 


IS : 398-1961 Specification for 
hard-drawn stranded aluminium 
and steel-cored al umini um con- 
ductors for overhead power 
transmission purposes. 

IS : 1184-1957 Specification for 
maize starch for use in the cot- 
ton textile industry. 

IS : 1308-1958 Specification for 
aldrin dusting powders. 

IS : 561-1962 Specification for 
BHC dusting powders [Second 
revision). 


IS : 916-1966 Specification for 
1 8 -litre square tins (retired). 

IS : 226-1962 Specification for 
structural steel (standard quality) 
( Third revision). 


Structural steel (ordinary quality) 


Steel wire for the core of steel- 
cored aluminium conductors 
for overhead power trans- 
mission purposes. 


IS : 1977-102 Specification for 
structural steel (ordinary quali- 
ty)- 

IS : 30 -I 0 I Specification for 
hard-drawn stranded aluminium 
and steel-cored aluminium con- 
ductors for over-head power 
transmission purposes. 


16-9-67 


15-9-68 M/s. Deepak Pulverizers, Koishet Endrin etnulsifiable concentrates IS: 1310-1958 Specification for 
Road, Thana (Near Power endrin emulsifiable concentrat- 

House). es. 


[No. MP/33 : 16 ] 


34o8The gazette of india : September, as, 1967 /asvina i, 1889 [part n- 


'Sec. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA 1, 1889 3409 


New Delhi, the 12 th September 1967 

S'O. 3339. — In pursuance of sub-rule (1) of rule 4 of the Indian Stan- 
dards Institution (Certification Marks) Rules, 1955 the Indian Standards Institu- 
tion hereby notifies that the Standard Mark, design of which together with the 
verbal description of the design and the title of the relevant Indian Standard is- 
given In the Schedule hereto annexed, has been specified- 

This Standard Mark for the purpose of the Indian Standard Institution (Certi- 
fication Marks) Act, 1952 and the Rules and Regulations framed thereunder, shall 
come Into force with effect from 16 August 1907: 

The Schedule 


SI. 

No. 

Design of the Stan- 
dard Mark 

Product/Class of 
Product 

No. and Title of 
the Relevant In- 
dian Standard 

Verbal 

Design 

Mark 

description of the 
of the Standard 

I 

2 

3 

4 


3 



Liverpool twill IS 13794 - 1966 
(L-twill) bags Specification for 
Liverpool twill 
(L-twill) bags 


The monogram of the 
Indian Standard* Institu- 
tion consisting of letters 
‘ISI’j drawn in the exact 
style and relative propor- 
dons as indicated in col (2) 
the number designation of 
the Indian Standard being 
superscribed on the top 
side of the monogram as 
indicated in the design. 


(No. MD/ 17 : 2 .J 
(Dr.) SADGOPAL, 
Deputy Director General.. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND SHIPPING 
(Transport Wing) 

Merchant Shipping 
New Delhi, the 7th September 1967 

S O. 3340 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 218 of the Merchant 
Shipping Act, 1958 (44 of 1958), read with rules 3 and 4 of the National Welfare 
Board for Seafarers Rules, 1963, the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendment In the Notification of the Government of India in 
the late Ministry of Transport and Aviation Department of Transport, Shipping 
and Tourism (Transport Wing) No- S-O- 1883, dated the 16th June, 1966, namely: — - 

In the said Notification fob the existing entries against Serial No. 14, the 
following entries shall be substituted :• — 

"Labour Commissioner, Representative of the 

Calcutta, West Bengal. Government of West Bengal.’' 

[No. 14-MT(14)/65-J 


New Delhi, the 12th September 1967 

S.O. 3341.— In exercise of the powers conferred by Section £18 of the Merchant 
Shipping Act, 1958 (44 of 1958), read with rules 3 and 4 of the National Welfare 
Board for Seafarers Rules, 1983, the Central Government hereby makes the follow- 
ing further amendment in the Notification of the Government of India in late 








3410 the GAZETTE of INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA 1, 1889 [Part II- 


Ministry of Transport and Aviation, Department of Transport, Shipping and 
Tourism (Transport Wing) No. S-O- 1883, dated the 16th June, 1960, namely: — 

In the said notification for the existing entries against serial number 23, the 
following entries shall be substituted: — 

‘'Deputy Conservator, 

Madras Port, Madras. 

Representative of the 
Madras Port Trust.” 

[No. 14-MT(14) /05.H 
B B. LAL, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF TOURISM AND CIVIL AVIATION 
(Department of Tourism) 

New Delhi, the 13th September 1967 

S.O. 3342- — In pursuance of sub-clause (b) of clause 2 of the Imported Tourist 
Cars (Control) Order, 1961 and in partial supersession of the Notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Tourism and Civil Aviation (Department 
of Tourism) No. S.O. 1763, dated 20th May, 1967, the Central Gomernmiwit hereby 
appoints Shri S. K. Roy, Director General, Ministry of Tourism and Civil Avia- 
tion, Government of India, to be the Controller of Imported Tourist Cars for the 
purposes of the said Order, in addition to Shri S. D. Khanna. 

DSo. 4-TTA4(58)/65.] 
R. C. DUTT, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR, EMPLOYMENT AND REHABILITATION 
(Department of Labour & Employment) 

New Delhi , the 11th September 1967 

S.O 3343. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Indus- 
trial Tribunal, Calcutta, in the matter of an application under section 33A of the 
said Act from Shri Ramdeb Chamar. Dresser C/o Colliery Mazdoor Sabha, Rani- 
ganj, Burdwan, which was received by the Central Government on the 1st Septem- 
ber, 1967. 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA 
Misc. Application No. 4 of 1967 
Under Sec. 33A or I-D. Act 
(Arising out of Reference No, 86 of 1966) 


Parties: 

Shri Ramdeb Chamar, Dreseer, 

C/o Colliery Mazdoor Sabha, 

Raniganj, Burdwan. Applicant, 


Vs. 

The Manager, 

Ramnagar Colliery. 

P.O. Pandaveswar, Burdwan, 


Present: 

Shri S, K. Sen, Presiding Officer, 


Appearances: 

On behalf of Applicant — Shri Parima] Das Gupta, Advocate, 
On behalf of Opp. Party . — Shri S, S. Mukherjee, Advocate. 


Opp. Party. 




*c. 3(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ AS VINA 1 , 1889 341 1 


^State: West Bengal. Industry: Coal Mining. 

AWARD 

This is an application under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act filed by 
Shri Ramdeb Chamar who used to work as a Dresser at Ramnagar Colliery. 
According to the applicant, he Is a member of the branch of the Colliery Mazdoor 
Sabha at Ramnagar; the management of Ramnagar Colliery pursued a policy of 
-crushing the branch of the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha and falsely chargesheeted the 
applicant on 27th June, I960 on the allegation of attempting to sabotage the under- 
ground work by cutting or perforating the high voltage electric cable running 
underground from which drillers obtain the necessary power for operating drill- 
ing machine. After receiving applicant’s reply denying the charge, the manage- 
ment held an enquiry at which the applicant was denied natural justice. The 
management after the enquiry passed an order of dismissal on 4th August, I960. 
According to the applicant, the order was bad on merits and also was because at 
That time another dispute concerning the workmen of Ramnagar Colliery namely 
Reference No. 86 of 1960, was pending and no application had been made to the 
tribunal for approval of the order of dismissal. 

, 2, The management in its rejoinder has raised the preliminary abjection that 

the application is barred on two grounds, firstly, because Ramdeb Chamar was not 
concerned in the dispute in Reference No. 86 of 1960. and secondly, because that 
reference case was pending at the time of Ramdeb Chamar’s dismissal before the 
tribunal at Dhanbad and that the application under Section 33A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act should, therefore, have been made before Dhanbad Tribunal, and 
the application made before the transferee tribunal, Calcutta Is incompetent. On 
merits, the management’s case is that the order of dismissal was passed on the 
result of the enquiry of which the workman was given every opportunity to de- 
fend himself, and there was no victimisation on account of trade union activities. 

3. As regards the first preliminary objection, Shri Parimal Das Gupta has 
relied on the decision 1960 I LLJ 551 (SC ), New India Motors Limited, New 
Delhi us, K. T. Morris. Therein, it was held that the expression “workmen 
concerned in such dispute” coqld not be limited only to such of the workmen 
who are directly concerned in the dispute in question but include all workmen 
on whose behalf the dispute has been raised as well as those who would be 
bound by the award which may be made In the said dispute, Shri Das Gupta 
has urged that the previous dispute was raised by the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha 
and therefore all the workmen who were member of the Colliery Mazdoor 
Sabha, were concerned in that dispute, and the present applicant being a mem- 
ber of the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha was also concerned in the previous disputes. 
Shri S. S. Mukherjee on behalf of the management has pointed out that the deci- 
sion in New India Motors Limited vs- K, T- Morris has been explained by a subse- 
quent decision of the Supreme Court, 1964 II LLJ 143. Digwadih Colliery vs. 
Rnmjee Singh, where it is laid down that unless the nature, of the pending dis- 
pute was ascertained and considered, it could not be said that concerned work- 
man was a workman concerned in the pending dispute simply on the ground 
that there was a reference pending; and that it is necessary that the workman 
should satisfy the tribunal by proving the nature of the dispute pending that 
he Is concerned therein. In that case, the pending dispute concerned a claim 
by Peons and Watchmen for overtime wages. The workman who filed the 
application under Section 33A was a clerk of Grade III. The Supreme Court 
held that he was not concerned in the pending dispute. In New India Motors 
Limited vs ■ K. T. Morris, the pending dispute was similar in nature to the dispute 
of the applicant K, T. Morris; K. T. Morris’s dispute concerned the termination 
of his service and the pending dispute also concerned termination of service 
of several apprentices who had been employed in the company. In the present 
case, the applicant, Ramdeb Chamar, made no attempt to prove the nature of 
the dispute which was pending. In his application under Section 33A there is 
merely a mention of the pending reference Case No. 80 of 1960 and no attempt 
has been made even during the hearing to state the nature of the dispute which 
was the subject matter of that case and to explain how Ramdeb Chamar was 
concerned in that dispute. For this defect alone, the application under Section 
33A is liable to fail, as held by the Supreme Court in Digwadih Colliery v$- 
Ramjee Singh. On reference to the record of Reference Case No. B0 of 1906, It 
appears that it concerned 2 workmen who were placed on the badli list for 
overstaying their leave by more than 10 days without obtaining an order for 
extension of their leave, The award in that case could not possibly bind other 
workmen. In the circumstances I must agree with Shri Mukherjee that accord- 
ing to the standard laid down in the latest Supreme Court case, Ramdeb Chamar 
was not concerned in the previous dispute and therefore his application is liable 
to fail. 



3412 T HE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1%7/ASVINA 1, 1889 [Part II- 


4, As regards the second objection also, I think it must prevail. The previ'i 
ous dispute was referred to the Dhanbad Tribunal for adjudication by an order 
dated 17th February, 1966. By a order of transfer dated 6th September, 1906 that 
reference case was transferred to the Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta. But the 
order of dismissal of Ramdeb Chamar was passed on 4th August, 1966 when the 
Reference case was still pending before the Dhanbad Tribunal. Section 3*3 A 
runs at follows, "Where an employer contravenes the provisions of Section 33 
during the pendency of proceedings before a Labour Court, Tribunal or National 
Tribunal, any employee aggrieved by such contravention may make a complaint 
in writing in the prescribed matter to such Labour Court, Tribunal or National 
Tribunal The words "such Labour Court, Tribunal or National tribunal" 
must refer to the Labour Court. Tribunal or National Tribunal before which the- 
dispute was pending when the alleged contravention took place. Therefore, the 
application should be made to such tribunal only. In the present case it should' 
have been made before the Dhanbad Tribunal. After the dismissal order, the- 
case was still before the Dhanbad tribunal for over one month and the applicant, 
therefore certainly could have filed an application in time before that Tribunal. 
But the application was filed before the Industrial Tribunal Calcutta on 22nd-, 
May, 1967. It must be held, therefore, that the application was not made before 
the proper tribunal. Shri Das Gupta has urged that the wordings such Laboilr 
Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal" should be interpreted to include the' 
Labour Court, Tribunal or National tribunal to which the pending case may have 
been transferred. But the wording of Section 33A does not admit of that inter- 
pretation. The application under Section 33A has to be filed before the Labour 
Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal where a proceeding wan pending at tins 
time when Section 33 was contrayened by an employer. The words "such 
Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal” cannot be interpreted to include 
also any Labour Court. Tribunal or National Tribunal to which the case may 
have been subsequently’ transferred. ; 


0. On merits also, I must find that the applicant has no case. The enquiry 
in this case was held by Shri B. P Verfna, Welfare Officer of Ramanagar Colliery- 
He stated that he recorded the evidence of management’s witnesses in the pre- 
Bence of Ramdeb and Bhagwat who was also charge-sheeted along with Ramdeb. 
and read out and explained the evidence and gave opportunity to the delinquents 
to cross examine the witnesses. He also recorded their statements and give them' 
opportunity to produce their defence witnesses which they did not. The inquiry 
was held on 30th July, 1966. It is true that the workman sent by registered post 
a letter Ext- 3, dated 3lst July, 1966 complaining against the conduct of the 
enauirv officer in refusing to allow a co -worker to assist klni to 
witnesses. But the management replied to that letter on 6th August 1960, wide 
Ext C that the allegations against the enquiring officer were not true. There 
Is also’ the evidence of the enquiring officer that he never refused the workman 
an opportunity to bring a co-worker to help him or to produce witnesses for 
his defence In fact, in the enquiry proceedings, Ex. D. the enquiring officer' 
took the precaution of making a note signed by another independent workman 
that he asked Ramdeb Chamar and Bhagwat Pasi to submit a list of defence 
witnesses and to bring a co-worker to help them if necessary, but they stated 
that they did not need the help of a co-worker and had no witness to examine 
In their defence This endorsement is signed by another workman, Jagnath 
Kah I must hold therefore that the enquiry was properly held. 


a <?hrl Das Gupta has pointed out that there i a a mistake in the charge-sheet 
in as much as the date of the misconduct is noted as “9th June, 1966” and “24th 
1966” Though there is a mistake in tvpmy out the date, it is clear that thc^ 
management meant the date 24th June, 1966 and this was made clear during the 
enquiry when the witnesses clearly referred to the date 24th June . The evi- 
dence was recorded OTthe presence of the workman and was read out and 
explained to hhn In the circumstances, I must hold that there was no prejudice 
caused by the mistake contained in the charge-sheet as to the second date of 
misconduct Shri Das Gupta has finally urged that there was no direct evidence 
thaif Ramdeb Chamar had been seen cutting or perforating the high voltage 
cable and that the management discriminated against Ramdeb Chamar inasmuch 
as the co-accused Bhagwat Pasi was retained in service and not punched as the 
result of the enquiry. A perusal of the evidence recorded at the enquiry and of % 
the report of the enquiry officer shows that there was no direct evidence that 
R^mdlb Chamar had cut or perforated the high voltage cable from which the 
JhtSneri their Dower for drilling the coal face, but there was strong 
drillers obtai d P 24th June 1966 Ramdeb Chamar had done so 

Against Bhagwat Pasi was weak. Regarding 9th June 1968 
there* was very little evidence but only a surmise by the management that since- 



tec. 5(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 2J, 1967/ASVINA t, 1889 3415 


Ramdeb Chamar was concerned in thus damaging high voltage cable on 24th 
June 1966 he must also have been concerned in doing the same on 9th June, 
11966 because on that date also the high voltage cable had been found cut or 
perforated and put out of action after Ramdeb Chamar and another had worked 
as dressers at the spot. The enquiring officer, therefore, confined his finding to 
24th June, 1966 and pointed out that there was strong circumstancial evidence 
that on that day Ramdeb Chamar had cut or perforated the high voltage cable 
and attempted to sabotage the mine, but that the evidence against Bhagwat Pasi 
was very weak. The management also based their order on the proved mis- 
conduct of 24th June, 1966. It was also natural that in the face of the finding, 
the management should have given Bhagwat Pasi the benefit of doubt. This 
cannot be considered as discrimination." 


Hence Ramdeb Chamar’s application must fail on the preliminary grounds as 
well as on merits The application is therefore dismissed. My award is that the 
action of the Management of Ramnagar Colliery in dismissing Shri Ramdeb 
Chamar with effect from 4th August, 1966 was justified, and the applicant work- 
man is not entitled to any relief- 


Dated, Calcutta 
29th August, 1067. 


(3d-) S. K. Sen, 


Presiding Officer. 
[No. fl/118/05-LRII.J 


S.O. 3344. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947). the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, In the matter of an application under section 33A 
of the said Act from Shri Kirti Singh, C/o Colliery Mazdoor Sabha, Post Office 
R'aniganj. District Burdwan, which was received by the Central Government on 
the 1st September, 1967. 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA. 

Misc. Application No. 7 op 1967 
Under Sec. 33A of I.D. Act. 

(Arising out of Reference No- 96 of 1906) 


Parties : 

Shri Kirti Singh, C/o- Colliery Mazdoor Sabha. P-O. Raniganj, DIst. Burdwan- 
— Applicant. 

Vs. 

The Manager, Kendra Colliery, P.O. Pandaveswar, Dist- Burdwan- 
— Opposite Party. 

Present : 

Shri S- K- Sen — Presiding Officer. 

Appearances : 

On behalf of Applicant. — Shri Parimal Das Gupta, Advocate- 

On behalf of Opposite Party - — Shri S. S. Mukherjee. Advocate. 

State: West Bengal. Industry: Coal Mines. 

AWARD 

This is an application under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act by Shri 
Kirti Singh previously employed as a Night Watchman at Kendra Colliery, Ac- 
cording to Kirti Singh’s case, he served for 1 7 or 18 years under the Samla Collieries 
Limited and worked as Nightguard for 14 or 15 years at Ramnagar colliery and in 
1965 he was transferred to Kendra and was working there until he was charge- 
sheeted on 1st April 1966, and dismissed on 24th May 1966- According to the 
applicant, a false chargesheet was filed against him for victimising him, as his son 
Sadanand Singh was taking a leading part in the activities of the branch of the 
Colliery Mazdoor Sabha at Kendra colliery, and the applicant, Kirti Singh, when 
asked to make his son give up his connection with the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha, 
expressed his inability to do so- The misconduct alleged against Kirti Singh was 
that he was found sleeping on duty when posted as a Nightguard in the night of 
31st March/lst April, 1966- According to the applicant, the charge was a false 
one and at the enquiry he was denied natural Justice and therefore the order of 



3414 ™ E GAZETTE Ot INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23 , 1967/A-SVINA 1, 1889 [Part II- 


dismissal was bad. He claimed that the order of dismissal was also bad because 
at that time Reference case No. 95 of 1968 was pending and no application under 
Section 33 (2) (b) of the Industrial Disputes Act for approval of the order of dis- 
missal was Hied by the management. 

2- The management has raised preliminary objections as to the maintainability of 
the application under Sec. 33A, and on merits the management has claimed that 
the order of dismissal was passed on the result of domestic enquiry which was 
held fairly giving every chance to the applicant to defend himself, and there was 
no victimisation because of Kirti Singh’s inability or unwillingness to prevent his 
.son Sadanand Singh from taking an active part in the work of the branch of the 
Colliery Mazdoor Sabha at Kendra Colliery. 

3. The first preliminary objection raised Is that the applicant Kirti Singh was 
not concerned in the pending dispute and that he made no attempt to show that 
he was concerned. It was held by the Supreme Court In 1964 II LLJ 143, Dlgwadih 
Colliery vs. Ramjee Singh that it is necessary that the workman should satisfy the 
tribunal by proving the nature of the dispute pending that he is concerned 
therein. In the present case the applicant, Kirti Singh, made no attempt to do so 
In his evidence he Made no reference to the previous pending case and in his appli- 
cation there Is merely a mention of Reference No. 95 of 1966- In view of the 
Supreme Court ruling, I must agree that the application is liable to fail because 
the applicant has not shown that he is concerned In the dispute which was pend- 
ing. It has appeared on a reference to the record of Reference Case No. 95 of 
1986 that dispute concerned suspension of 3 miners who assaulted a loader when 
working underground. It is clear that the Nightguard whose duty is to guard at 
night on the surface was not concerned in that dispute. Accordingly the first 
objection must be sustained. 

4. The second objection is that the application under Section 33A should have 
been filed before the Dhanbad tribunal because at the time when the order of 
dismissal was passed on Kirti Singh be- 24th May 1966, the proceedings concern- 
ing the suspension of 3 miners was pending before the Dhanbad tribunal. The 
dispute had been referred for adjudication by Dhanbad tribunal by an order dated 
21st March 1968 and it was pending before Dhanbad tribunal until 5th September, 
1966, because the order of transfer of the case to Calcutta tribunal was passed on. 
6th September, 1966. Section 33A provides that when an employer contravenes 
the provisions of Section 33 during the pendency of any proceedings before a Labour 
Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal, any employee aggrieved bv such contraven- 
tion may make a complaint to such Labour Court. Tribunal or National Tribunal. 
The complaint Tri writing under Sec. 33A must be made before the Tribunal before 
which the proceedings were pending. There is nothing in the wording ot Sec. 33A 
to Indicate that such an application may be filed before the Tribunal to which 
the case may have been subsequently transferred. In this case the order of dis- 
missal was passed against Kirti Singh on 24th May 1966 and before the transfer 
of the proceedings to Calcutta, he had more than 3 months’ time to file the appli- 
cation before Dhanbad Tribunal. He however omitted to do so and only on 22nd 
May 1967 he filed an application before the Tribunal at Calcutta- It must be held 
that the application is incompetent- 

5. On merits also I must find that Kirti Singh has no case- The enquiry was 
held by Vishnu S. Prasad, Labour Officer, Kendra who gave evidence before the 
tribunal and proved the enquiry proceedings, Ext. G and the report submitted by 
him Ext- H. The inquiry was held on 3rd May 1966. It is true that the applicant, 
Kirti Singh, complained by a letter dated 4th May, 1966 sent by registered post 
(Ext C) that he had not been given opportunity to call a co-worker to 
help him at the enquiry and to examine his defence witness. But in 
reply to this letter Ext. D on 11th May 1966, stating that the complaint 
against the enquiring officer was false but the workman was being given a 
further opportunity to defend himself and that h e might appear with his co- 
worker to help him and his defence witnesses before the enquiring officer on 21st 
May 1966 at 3 p.m. Kirti Singh said that he did appear before the enquiring officer 
on any other date, but the enquiring officer has stated that on 21st May 1966 the 
workman did appear before him and the witnesses for the management were 
present on that day and they were tenderd for cross examination, but the workman 
refused to cross examine them, and the enquiring officer recorded a note which has 
been marked Ext. Gl. It appears that Kirti Singh stated on the day that he had 
already taken part In the enquiry and that the management was harassing him 
again after the enquiry had been completed: and that when the enquiring officer 
fold him about the contents of the letter, dated 4th May 1966 (Ext. C), the workman 
replied that he Lad no knowledge of the complaint. The letter, Ext-C. was written 
L>y the union officials in English and the signature of Kirti Singh in Hindi was 



Sfc. 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA 1, 1889 3415 


obtained on it before sending the letter to the management- It must be held that 
complaint herein was without substance- 

6. Shri Das Gupta has urged that the management was displeased with Kirti 
Singh because Kirti Singh could not or did not control his son Sadananda Singh 
from taking a prominent part in the working of the Laljhanda Union. In this 
connection, Shri Das Gupta referred to the letters Ext- 6. 7 and 8 which are replies 
received by the Vice-President of Colliery Mazdoor Sabha from the A.L.C-(C), 
RaniganJ or R. L- C. (C), Dhanbad in reply to complaints sent by the Vice President, 
Ext. 7 dated 28th October, 1965. It referred to the Vice-President’s letter dated 
1st October 1965, and enclosed a copy of letter dated 19th October 1665 received 
from the Agent, Samla Collieries Limited in reply to the allegations- The annexure 
to the letter is the copy of the letter of the Agent of Samla Collieries Limited. There- 
in it Is denied that elher Sadananda Singh or Kirti Singh was being harassed 
because of Saclananda's trade union activities and that whatever disciplinary action 
might be taken against them it would be only for proved misconduct. Ext. 8 is 
copy of a letter from the R. L, C. (C), Dhanbad, dated 11th November, 1965 that 
he would visit Kendra colliery on 24th November 1965, at 4 p-m. for enquiry into the 
alleged harassing of Sadananda Singh and Kirti Singh. The original letter was directed 
to the Agent, Samla Collieries Limited and Ext- 8 is the endorsement on a copy which 
was sent to the Vice-President of the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha. There is no evidence and 
no letter proved by the union to Indicate what happened as a result of I the enamry 
Ext, 6 which is a letter dated 10th January 1966 from the A. L. C. (C), RaniganJ 
to the Vice-President, Colliery Mazdoor Sabha in which A L. C. speaks of the 
assurance given by the management that Kirti Singh would be 
little as possible from one mine to another and that he woufd normally be kep 
at Ramnagar or Kendra only. This apparently is a reply to the the 

Kirti Slneh was frequently being transferred in order to harass him. During the 
evidence nowe^/er it^hns not hp pea red that Kirti Singh was e., "^^nsferred 
frequently, Kirti Singh stated that he was working at Ramnagar colUery tor 4 
or 15 vears and In 1965 he was transferred to Kendra- There ^ s no 
reason to think that he was transferred frequently In order to haras, hi 

7 The present order of dismissal was passed on the result of the enquiry; 
there was direct evidence given at the enquiry that Kirti Singh who Is an old 
man of 65 years or above was found sleeping on duty in the night of 31st March/ 
1st April. 1966. The enquiry was also fairly held and It cannot therefore be said 
that Kirti Singh was victimised because of any grudge against him by the manage- 
ment The union proved certain letters to show that on some previous occasion, the 
management had asked Kirti Singh to appear before the Chief Medical Officer of 
the Colliery for report about his fitness, vide Ext. 3 dated 18th September ,190a, 
when Kirti Singh in reply refused to appear before the Chief Medical Overstating 
that he was fit vide Ext. 4 the management did not take any action. This however 
does not show that the management wanted to get rid ofKirtiSmghon whatever 
nlea was available. If the management had such intention they would have in- 
sisted on Kirti Singh’s appearing before the Chief Medical Officer for testing his 
fitness. On a consideration of all the evidence I find that on merits also there is 
nothing to Interfere with the order of dismissal passed on Kirti Singh. 

Thus the application fails on the preliminary grounds as well as on merits and 
is dismissed Mv award Is that the Management, Kendra Colliery, was lustitleo 
in dismissing the 7 applicant Kirti Singh on 24th May 1966 and the applicant Is not 
entitled to any relief. 

Dated, Calcutta, the 29th August, 1967- 

(Sd.) S. K. Sen, 

Presiding Officer. 

[No- 0/66/65-LRII-l 


New Delhi, the 12th September 1967 

S.O. 3345.— In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 114 
of 1947) the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur, in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Shampur Colliery of Kamala Coal Company, Post Office Mugma. 
District Dhanbad and their workmen, which was received by the Central Govern- 
ment on the 8th September, 1967. 




3416 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA 1, 1889 [Part II- 

3EFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUN AL-CUM- 
LABOIJR COURT, JABALPUR. 

CAMP AT ALLAHABAD 

Dated August 14, 1967 


Present : 

Sri G- C. Agarwala — Presiding Officer. 

Reference No. 124 of 1964 (Dhanbad Tribunal) 

Reference No. CGIT/LC(R) (59) of 1967 (Jabalpur Tribunal) 

In the matter of an industrial dispute in relation to Shampur Colliery of Kamala 
Coal Company Post Office Mugna, District Dhanbad and their workmen. 


-Appearances : 

For the employers — None 
For the workmen — None- 

Industry: Coal Mine District: Dhanbad (Bihar) 

AWARD 


By Notification No. 2/117/64-LR.II dated 9th November 1964 the Ministry of 
Labour & Employment, Government of India, referred the following matter of dis- 
pute as stated in the schedule to the order of reference to the Central Government 
Industrial Tribunal. Dhanbad, for adjudication. The case remained pending before 
the said Tribunal from 14th November 1964 till it was transferred to this Tribunal 
by Notification No. 8/25/67-LRII dated 25th April 1967. 


Matter of Dispute 

Whether the unemployment from the 18th June 1964 of Shri Jag Narain 
Singh Night Guard of Kamala Coal Company’s Shampur Colliery was 
caused bv the management of the said colliery and if so, whether 
it was justified? If not, to what relief is he entitled? 


After usual notice to parties, it was intimated that the matter w as Joeing nego- 
tiated for settlement. On 18th July 1967 a compromise Petition signed on behalf 
of both the parties was filed, terms of which are reproduced in the annexure. Since 
the Union’s representative was not present a notice was sent to Union to show 
cause why the petition should not he accepted as a bonafide settlement of the dis- 
pute and if no objection was filed, the petition would be accepted as a 8enne 
settlement of the dispute. Inspite of notice to the Union, no objection has been 
filed and therefore the petition has been taken as a genuine settlement of the dis- 
nute From the terms of the petition it appears that on payment of Rs- 357/- by 
the management the dispute has been settled and an award, therefore, is recorded 

in terms of the settlement. 


Sd /- G. C. Agarwala, 
Presiding Officer- 


Annexure 


BEFORE THE HON’BLE 
CUM-LABOUR 


PRESIDING OFFICER, INDUSTRIAL 
COURT (CENTRAL) AT JABALPUR: 


TRIBUNAL- 


Refehence No. 124 of 1964 


Parties : 

Employers in relation to Shampur (Colliery of M/s. Kamala Coal Co , P.O. 
Mugma (Dhanbad), 

And 


Their workmen. 

-Joint Petition of Parties 

The parties aforesaid most respectfully beg to submit as under: — 

(1) The matter covered by the statement has been amicably settled by mutual 
negotiation between the parties- 




Seg. 3(il)] THE, GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1987/ASV1NA 1, 1889 3417 


(2) As a result of the negotiation, the management has agreed to make certain 
payment to the applicant which the applicant has agreed to accept 
in full and final settlement of all claims, 

(31 The management paid a sum of Rs. 357/- (Rs. Three hundred fifty seven 
only) to the workmen this day. 

(4) It is therefore, prayed that the Hon’ble Tribunal may kindly drop the 
proceedings. 


For this act of kindness the parties shall ever pray. 


Sd./- R. R. Goswamt, 


Sd./-K. K. Mukherjee, 


7-7-07, 

Proprietor, 

Shampur Colliery 
Kamala Coal Co., 
mP.O- Mugma, Dhanbad. 
For the Employer. 
Hated 7th July, 1907. 


7-7-07 

General Secretary, 
Nirsha Thana Coal field & Workshop 
Worker’s Union, 
P.O. Nirshachati, Dhanbad, 
For the Workmen. 


PART OF AWARD 

Sd /- G. C- Agarwala 
Presiding Officer, 
Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal-cum- 
Labour Court, Jabalpur, 
14-8-67. 

[No. 2/117/64-LRII ] 


S.O. 3346, — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 oC 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur, tn the Industrial Dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Pure Kustore Colliery, Post Office Kusuoda (Dhanbad) and 
their workmen, which was received by the Central Government on the 8th 
September, 1967- 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL-CUM-LABOUR 

COURT, JABALPUR 

Dated August 10, 1907 


‘Present : 

Sri G. C- Agarwala — Presiding Officer. 

Reference No. 30 of 1964 (Dhanbad Tribunal) 

Reference No. CGIT/LC(R)(18)/87 (Jabalpur Tribunal) 

Tn the matter of an Industrial Dispute in relation to Pure Kustore Colliery, Post 
'Office Kusunda, District Dhanbad (Bihar) and its workmen. 

Appearances : 

For the Employers— S/Sri S- Mukerjl, Advocate and B. Mukerjee, Chief 
Personnel Officer of the Company. 

For the Workkmen — Sri Raj Ballabh Prasad, Secretary and Sri Prasant 
Burman- 

Industry: Coal Mine. District: Dhanbad (Bihar). 


AWARD 

By Notification No 2/28/64-LRII, dated 20th March, 1964 the Ministry of 
Labour and Employment referred the following matter of dispute to the Central 
‘Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, for adjudication from where it was 



34 1 8 THE GAZETTE OT INDIA ; S1TTEWBKR SIB*, 19flF/AflWtNA- 1 , 18*»* [Pmt U. 


transferred to this Tribunal vide Notification No- 8/25/6J-LRII, dated 25th April, 
1967 : 


Matter of Dispute 

Whether the termination of services of the following workmen with effect 
from the 30th December, 1983 by the management of Pure Kustore 
Colliery was justified? If not, to what relief are the workmen entitled? 


1 . 

Sheodat Chamar. 

8. 

Wokil Chamar- 

2 

Chhotu Chamar. 

9. 

Pancham Koeri 

3. 

Bishram Chamar. 

10. 

Alqu Bhar. 

4. 

Rambachan Chamar. 

11. 

Balkaran Bhar, 

5- 

Seodas Ahir (Jadav). 

12- 

Bachan Bhar. 

6- 

Ramnath Kumhar 

13. 

Mithu Kalwar. 

7. 

Darshan Rajbhar. 




2. The case remained pending before the Dhanbod Tribunal from 28th March, 
1964 till It was transferred to this Tribunal vide Notification dated 25th April, 1967- 

3. Parties filed their statements of claim before the Dhanbad Tribunal and 
the workmen also filed their rejoinder before the said Tribunal- Employers, how-\ 
ever, filed their rejoinder before this Tribunal on 9th June, 1967, at the preliminary 
hearing at Allahabad when on the basis of the pleadings certain issues were framed. 
Evidence was recorded on 21st July, 1967 -t Dhanbad when parties filed certain 
documents The workmen examined three witnesses S/Shri Raj Ballabh Prasad 
(W-W.l), Alku Rajbhar (W-W- 2) and Vokil Chamar (WW- 3). The employers 
examined two witnesses, S/Shri N. C- Dutta (E-W. l) and B- Mukerjee (E-W. 2).' 
After arguments were concluded, the employers were required lo file a comparative 
seniority list of all Miners in Pita No. 2 and 4 which was done on 27th July, 1967 
supported by an affidavit of Sri B- Mukerjee. The workmen were required to 
file a counter-affidavit on the question at the accuracy of the list by 7th August, 
1967 which they failed .to do. The seniority list, therefore, has been treated as 
correct. 

4 The facts leading to the dispute are that the management of Pure Kustore 
Colliery has been running two Pits Nos. 2 and 4, No. 2 is known as Alkuda Colliery 
and No. 4 as Pure Kustore Colliery. According to the management in Pit No. 4, 
two sections, the top and bottom, were being worked when in December, 1963 
they received directions from the Coal Board to discontinue developing the bottom 
Section during the extraction of coal in the top section- Consequently, out of 
20 galleries which are being worked 5 gallaries had to be stopped- Some miners, 
therefore, became surplus and 25 of them including the 13 concerned workmen 
mentioned In the schedule to the order of reference had to be retrenched They 
were all those who had not rendered one year continuous service- As such, all 
the 25 miners were issued individual notices on 28th December, 1963 Intimating 
that their services would stand terminated with effect from 30th December, 1963- . 
Four of these workmen accepted full and final settlement. Subsequently, it was 
Intimated on behalf of the management by an application dated 30th November, 
L964 that five more workmen namely, Ram Nath Kumhar (SI- No. 6), Darshan 
Rajbhar (SI. No. 7), Pancham Kc*eri (SI- No. 9), Balkaran Bhar (SI- No. II) and 
Mithu Kalwar (SI. No. 13) voluntarily accepted payment in full and final settle- 
ment of their claims and had no grievance left in the dispute- It may be men- 
tioned that these persons also individually intimated the fact to the Tribunal 
out of whom Balkaran Bhar (Si- No. 11) however, subsequently withdrew his 
application. For the dispute in question, it was stated that the management has 
bad no knowledge if the workmen concerned were members of Khan Ms? do or 
Congress. It was further averred that the Khan Mazdoor Congress was not com- 
petent to sponsor the dispute and the dispute was not an Industrial Dispute 

5- The Union. Khan Mazdoor Congress, pleaded that they had sufficient number 
of workers of this colliery as their members as may as about 200 and all the 
concerned workmen were members of their Union prior to the date of retrench- 
ment The dispute, therefore, was an Industrial Dispute. It was denied that 
Pits No, 2 and 4 were separate mine, but they were one establishment- The 
seniority of both the pits, therefore, will have to be considered in applying the 
principle of 1 ast come first go in the matter of retrenchment. It was further 
pleaded that there was no justification for the retrenchment and even if 5 galleries 
had to be closed at the bottom section of Pit No- 4, there were other faces- 
available both In this pit and in Pit No. 2, where these retrenched workmen could 
have been employed. The retrenchment of these workers was malaflde with a 
vie-v to victimise them for having joined this Union, Khan Mazdoor Congress, 
which had extended Its activities to this colliery in order to protect the irterest 




Sec. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA 1. 18«9 3419 


of workers as a rival union was a pocket union of the managem.'nt- Further, 
it was contended that the concerned - _>rkmen had put in more then enc ”°ar’s 
service and could ^ot be retrenched them without compliance with the provisions 
of Sec- 25-F .of I-D Act read with Rule 76 of I-D- (Central) Rules. The retrench- 
ment. therefore, was illegal and in operative. T t was also brought about against 
the provisions of the Standing Orders. The fact that some of the workers had 
accepted their payment subsequent to retrenchment was of no consequence and 
was not a compromise or settlement of the dispute On the pleadings of the 
parties the following additional issues were framed : — 

Additional Issues 

(i) Whether the concerned workmen were members of Khan Mazdoor 
Congress. U the dispute an Industrial Dispute ? 

(ii) Whether pits numbers 2 and 4 were separate mines. If not, .could the 
employers treat each as separate for purposes of retrenchment? 

(iii) Whether the 13 concerned workmen had not put in more than one year 
service and were not entitled to retrenchment benefits? 

(iv) Was there sufficient justification for retrenchment? Was it ma’afide and 
motivated for victimisation? 

iv) Has it been brought about in accordance with rules and law. 

(vi) Was termination of services brought about in accordance with the stand- 
ing orders? * 

(vii) Whether some of the workmen and if so, which, have compromised and 
settled the dispute with the employers. It’s effect? 

* 

Findings: 

6 . Issue No. 1.— To prove membership of the 13 concerned workmen Sri Raj 
Ballabh Prasad, Secretary of the Union came in evidence as W.W. 1- He filed 
Counterfoil Receipt Books (Ex. W/l) to (Ex. W/9). This would show that all 
the concerned workmen became members of the Union on 19th November, 1963- 
The Counterfoil receipts are contained in these exhibits- He further stated that 
there were about 2C0 workers of this colliery who were members of his Union- 
The Membership Register could not be produced as it had been filed in another 
case before the Dhanbad Tribunal. Two of the workmen concerned Vokil Chamar 
and Alku Rajbhar also came in evidence and corroborated the statement about 
their membership anterior to the date of retrenchment. There is no controverting 
evidence against this. The fact that the concerned workmen were not members 
of the Union and the Union has no competency was not challenged during the 
conciliation proceeding, as wou’d appear from the report of the Conciliation Officer. 
That being so, it must be held that all the concerned workmen were members 
of the Union at the relevant time and the Union, Khan Mazdoor Congress, was 
competent to sponsor the dispute. The dispute was an industrial dispute and the 
Tribunal has jurisdiction. 

7. Issue No. 2.— The point that Pits No. 2 and 4 were separate establishments, 
being separate mines, was not seriously pressed on behalf of the management. 
The conciliation report shows that thev were treated as one establishment- No 
attempt has been rede before me to eslaDlish That they were ssparap mines and 
were treated as separate estab’ishments. That being so, both the P-ts shall be 
treated as one establishment for the purposes of retrenchment. 

8- Issue No. 3. — In respect of the concerned workmen, it appears from the 
' conciliation report that the management produced the seniority list of Pit Nos. 4 
and 2 before the Conciliation Officer Or examining the same, he found that the 
concerned workmen were the junior most in the category of miners. They have 
also filed a list of all miners both for Pit No- 4 and 2 which have been proved 
by an affidavit of Sri B- Mukerjee on behalf of the management. These lists 
have been prepared from Form B-2 registers which have a 1 so been produced and 
exhibited and exhibited as Ex. E/32 to E./39 The accuracy of the lists has not 
been controverted on behalf of the Union in spite of opportunity allowed to do 
the same From th n registers and lists fi’ed it would appear that the concerned 
workmen were junior most. That being so, it is held that due compliance of 
" Sec- 25-G of the I D? Act was rendered by the employers. The IPts together 
with registers would further indicate that the concerned workmen had not rendered 
continuous service fer not less than one year at the time of retrenchment which 
was 28th December. 1963- The service records of these workmen are also on 
record - and are exhibits E 36 to E. 48- Non=> of the concerned workmen had 
put in one year’s service. It does appear that some of them were old employees 



3420 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA 1 , 1889 [Pvri ll- 


bul there had been break in their .service and were re-appointed- This is evident 
by Exts- E/17, E/18, E/19 and E/20 which show that Shiv Dut Chamar, Ram Nath 
Kumhar. Vokil Chamar and Pancham Kocri had absented for long periods and 
on their application they were reappointed from 7t.h January, 1 9 6 S . 4th February, 
1963, 17th April, 1963 and 19th March, 1967 respectively. As a matter of fact, 
Vokil Chamar admitted that although he joined the colliery in 1962 he want back 
home on leave He, however, conveniently forgot the dote when he was re- 
appointed on return from home- Aklu Rajbhar admitted that he was appointed 
on 4th February, 1963. Thus none of the concerned workmen had not put in one 
year service- On behalf of the Union reliance is placed on the definition of 
continuous service os contained in Sec. 25-F ID- Act Under Sub-section 2(a) it 
is contended that service rendered for 190 days fulfils the requirement This 
argument is based on an incorrect reading of this section. The section requires 
that if a workman has put in one year service and has worked actually on 190 
days he shall be treated to have rendered continuous service- The contention 
precedent for application of 190 days is that the workmen must have been in 
service for one year out of which 190 days may be the actual days of work for 
treating the same as continuous service- The first requirement that the employ- 
ment "houldl have subsisted for one year is necessary before determining the, 
length of continuous service- Since none of the workmen had been in emp’ovment, 
for one year, the question of working for 190 days does not arise- That being 
so, Sec. 25-F I-D. Act and Rule 76 of Industrial Disputes (Central) Rules are not 
attracted 

S. Issue No. 4. — From - the various documents filed on behalf of the manage-, 
ment. it appears that they had sufficient justification for developing the bottom' 
section of Pit No. 4 with the consequent result of closmg down five galleries- 
Ex. E/21 a letter dated 6th August, 1963 from the Inspecting Officer of ihe Coal 
Board and another letter from the Chief Inspector of Mines dated 6th July, 1963 
(Ex. E/22) would show that stowing was insisted upon and depi Taring was' 
restricted The development of the bottom section during the extraction in the 
top section was prohibited and therefore five gallaries out of tweniv had to be 
stopped in the bottom section. Sri N. C. Dutta (E.W. 1), Assistant Manager came 
in evidence for employers and stated that depiFaring of top section and develop- 
ment. of the bottom section simultaneously in Pit No. 4 was not permitted by 
the Mine's Department Consequently, deve’opment of five gallaries in bottom 
section was stooped and drpUlaring in top section was started Because of this, 
retrenchment of certain workers became necessary- He further steted that he 
did not know if the concerned workmen were members of Khan Mazdoor Congress. 
The total strength of worker:: was about 900 to 900 and the concerned workmen 
were the junior most. He ateo stated that the quarry was not working in lfiifi. 
when the concerned workmen were retrenched. There is p 0 reason to doubt his 
testimony According to the Union itself, the concerned workmen hecanv'' members 
only in November and th« retrenchment had io be affected in December The . 
management could have no means to know of their membership so soon after ’ 
their having become members of the Union and particularly when no prominent 
part was being play"d bv these workmen in Union activities- There h nothing 
on rero"d to show that there were 70 to 80 temporary workmen in emo'nvment 
at ,lhe .tine of retrenchment- There was, therefore’, sufficient iusrHflratton to 
affect retrenchment and there was no motive of victimisation in retrenching the 
concerned v nrkmen- Had it been so, the management would not have offer’d 
re-employment when the work was recommenced and there arose justification for 
re-employment- The issue is answered accordingly. 

10- Issue No. 5-- — Sec. 25-F and Rule 76 are not attracted and therefore there, 
te no question of compfianre with the provisions of the section and the rule 
The onl” relevant thing which the management had to do was to comply with 
the provisions of Sec 25-F namely, observance of ttm principle of test rone first 
iJo- This th“y h a d done as has already been held under the precedmn issue 
It was not necessary to comply with the rnoulrement of Se" 25-F or Pule 76. 
It may b* 1 mentioned that there was no plea thai Rute 77 of I D (O'ntrall Rules 
was not observed and therefore it was not incumbent on ib e management to have 
proved pewmatlvely that the ru 7 e was so observed The issue Is thus answered 
In affirmative. 

11. Issue No. 6.— On behalf of the management, it was alleged that in accord-" 

ores witte certain provisions of the Standing '"'rrlers which have not been filed 
or produced, they paid one week’s wages to these workmen. The point !». how- 
ever, immaterial. Both parties took up the stand that it was a case of retrench- 
ment. Th» provisions of the Standing Ord-'r ns was verbally contended related 
to discharge and not for retrenchment. Consequently, the provision of Standing 
Orders relating to discharge is not at all attracted- 



Sec. S(il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 28, 1967/ASVINA I, 1889 3421 


12. Iseu$yio- 7— It does appear that some of the concerned workmen accepted 
payment as would appear from Exts E/2 to E/18. Had the retrenchment been 
illegal the payment received by them would not have estopped them from con- 
tending that they were wrongly retrenched as rule of estoppel has no application 
in inclustria’ adjudications- The fact of payment as a compromise settlement 
subsequent to the reference becomes Immaterial for consideration in view of my 
earlier findings that the retrenchment was justified and was in accordance with 
the provisions of Sec. 25-G of I-D- Act. It is, therefore, unnecessary to consider 
the implication of the fact that some of the workmen have compromised and settled 
the dlsp de by accepting full and final payment or were given re-employment 
for which some evidence was also tendered by both sides. It may be mentioned 
that an enquiry about faithful compliance of Sec. 25-G I-D- Act regarding re- 
emp’oyment which undoubtedly was offered on reopening of work is beyond the 
scope of this reference and therefore is not being considered- It is sufficient to 
state that the termination of employment by retrenchment of the concerned work- 
men was justified- 

Decision. — -The result is that the issue under reference is answered in affir- 
mative. It is held that the termination of services by way of retrenchment of 
the 13 concerred workmen was justified and none of them arc entitled to any 
relief. No order for costs- 

(Sd.) G- C. Acarwai.a, 
Presiding Officer- 
10-8-1867. 

[No. 2/28/64-LRII-i 

New Delhi, the 14ih September 1967 

S.O. 3347. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
<14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industiral Tribunal, Calcutta, in the Industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Bankolla Colliery. Post Officce Ukhra, District Bordwan and 
their workmen, which was received by the Central Government on the 12th Sept- 
ember, 1967 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA 
Reference No. 150 of 1966 

Parties: 

Employers in relation to lhe Bankolla Colliery, 

AND 

Their workmen. 

Present : 

Shri S. K- Sen — Presiding Officer. 

Appearances : 

On behalf of Employers — Shri D. Narsingh, Advocate, 

On behalf of workmen — -Shri Benarsl Singh Azad, General Secretary, Khan 

Rhramik Congress. 


State: West Bengal. 


Industry: Coal Mines. 


AWARD 

By Order No. 6/102/66-LR.II dated 3rd December 19G6, the Central Govern- 
ment referred for adjudication an industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Bankolla Colliery P O- Ukhra, Dlst- Burdwan and their workmen 
in respect of the matter specified In the following schedule: 

“Whether the action of the management of Bankolla Colliery, Post Office 
Ukhra in terminating the services of Shri Dhiun Singh, mechanical 
fitter, with effect from the 30th May, 1966 was justified? If not, to 
what relief Is the workman entitled?’’ 

2, According to the union, the Khan Shramik Congress, Dhian Singh was 
appointed against a permanent vacancy under Bankolla colliery on 26th Novem- 
ber, 1965 as a mechanical fitter and worked without any blemish: but as he 



3422 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 88, 1987/ASVlNA 1, 1889 [Part II- 


became a member of the Khan Shramik Congress and took an active part In trade 
union work, the management was displeased with him and by a letter dated 29th 
April, 1966 gave one month’s notice of termination of service, the termination to 
become effective from 30th May It 66, Dhian Singh protested by a letter dated 7th 
May, 1966, but in reply he was informed by the management by a letter dated 
17th May, 1966 that his services were terminated because his work was not found 
satisfactory. According to the union, if the workman’s services were terminated 
for unsatisfactory work, he should have been served with n chargeshcet and given 
an opportunity to explain the circumstances, and that termination of service with- 
out such enquiry ryas a violation of the rules of natural justice. The union, 
therefore, claimed that Dhian Singh should be reinstated in his job as mechanical 
fitter and given back wages. 

3- According to the management, Dhian Singh was not a permanent employee 
but had been employed temporarily for one month in the first instance from 25th 
November, 1905, but he was allowed to continue in his post until by one month’s 
notice bis services were terminated with effecl from 30th May. 1966, The manage- 
ment claimed that they were not aware whether Dhian Singh had become a mem- 
ber of Khan Shramik Congress or any other union and denied that (he manage- 
ment had terminated his service because of trade union activities, In the protest 
letter dated 7th May, 1966, Dhian Singh had alleged that one M- K. Chahi avorty ' 
appointed as Diesel Mechanic was junior to him In service and it was therefore 
wrong on the part of the maagement to retain M. K Chakravorty but terminate 
his services. In the written statement filed by the union, it was merely mention- 
ed that the management had retained a junior worker in service while terminat- 
ing the seivice of Dhian Singh, no detail being given The management In their 
written statement said that M. K- Chakravorty was appointed to a superior post 
as Diesel Mechanic on a monthly basic salary of Rs. 225 plus dearness allowance 
and was not a workman of the same category as Dhian Singh, and therefore the 
question of retaining a junior man could not arise; furthei. it was not a case of 
retrenchment but of termination of service under the Standing Orders of the 
Company. The management, therefore, claimed that the order of termination of 
service qf Dhian Singh should be held to be justified. 

4- No letter of appointment of Dhian Singh has been produced by the manage- 
ment but the management has produced the weekly pay sheets, Ext. C&D, for the 
weeks ending 4th December, 1965 and 11th December, 1965 wherein Dhian Singh’s 
name is entered; the lists are described as “Wages sheet Temporary Section’’. 
Shrl Benarasi Singh Azad appearing on behalf of the union has challenged the 
fact that the pay-sheets or wages-sheets relate to temporary men only, and has 
referred to the evidence of MW 1-S. N. Das Gupta, Senior Engineer, Bankolla 
Colliery, that in his department there are only 6 or 7 temporary men whereas the 
pay-sheets, Ext- C&D, show numerous names- Shri Das Gupta has explained 
this by saying that the paysheets relate not only to the engineering department 
but to all departments. The question however whether Dhian Singh was appoint- 
ed temporarily or on a permanent basis is immaterial. Under paragraph 14 of 
the Standing Orders of the company, the company may terminate the services of 
a permanent workmen who has put In less than one year’s continuous service 
by , serving one month’s notice for n monthly paid worker and ore week’s notice 
for a v.-eehly paid worker, Clause (b) of paragraph 14 provides that no notice at 
all is required for termination of service of a tempornrv or a badll workmen 
Since Dhian Singh was given one month's notice for termination of service, he 
was apparently treated as a permanent workman by the management, but he had 
put in less than one year’s continuous service. On h'c own case, he was appoint- 
ed with effect from 26th November 1 965 and according to + b" mini" ’merit Prom 
25th November 1965. The w tire of discharge was civet' on 2*'th A or!), l‘|6G i- e - 
after 5 months’ of service. Thus, recording to the Sd-uiding Orders, the nr’-.rc of 
termination was validly given even it Dhian Singh had been anpointr d on a p°r- 
maretit basis- 

5. In the notice Ext. 1 of t( rmination of service, it is not mentioned that work 
of Dhian Singh had been found unsatisfactory. That statement was made only 
in the letter, Ext. 2, dated 17th Mav 1986 >n r n ply to Dhian Singh’s lelier rf pro- 
test, Ext. A, dated 7th May, 1956. Shrl Bemrard Fin- li 'cad iv t - urged that if 
his work was found unsatisfactory, he should have been charaesheeted and given 
an opportunity to explain- But where the Standing Ord"rs of a eompanv' pro- 
vide for the termination of service of a permanent workman who has nol com- 
pleted 12 months’ continuous service, the management is entitled to terminate 
the services of such a workman b>* notice without drawing up any charcesheet 
or holding any enquiry. In 1967 I LLJ 718. Benjamin v. Union of India, the 
Supreme Court held that where the Government as employer have the right under 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA I, 1889 3423 


the contract of employment or under the rules, to terminate the services of an 
employee, the motive for termination of service is irrelevant, and even in a case 
where' a departmental enquiry had 'reen initialed, it is open to the Government 
to drc d proceedings and make an order of discharge simpliciter. Thus. e\en 
if Dhian Singh had committed any misconduct, as the Standing Orders of the 
Employers enabled them to terminate the services of the workman, they would be 
entitled to do so wi+hout holding any enquiry in respect of the misconduct. More- 
over, as q hri D Narsiigh has pointed cut, unsatistactory work is not equivalent 
to misconduct The termination of sendee wrs made because Dhian Singh’s work 
as mechanica 1 fitter -was not J ouid up to the mark, and it was made within the 
time limited ’n paragraph H of the St Tiding Orders, It was therefore a valid 
termination of service. 

6. In view of the above finding, the question of Dhian Singh’s service being 
terminated m preference to M- K. Chakravorty’s service is immetarial. The 
management however has proved the letter of appointment of Shri M- K. Chakra- 
vorty. Ext. E, showing that the letter of appointment was issued to him on 12th 
November, 1965 i.e • before the date of appointment of Dhian Singh and further 
that M K. Chakravortv was appointed as a Diesel Mechanic on the monthly basic 
'pay of Rs- 225 plus allowances. That post was clearly superior post to that of a 
mechanical fitter which was the post to which Dhian Singh was appointed and in 
which he was drawing a weekly pay of Rs- 34-70 paise- Dhian Singh claimed that 
he had also worked in the beginning as a Diesel mechanic; but the manage- 
ment denied this and said that from the very first week pf his appointment his 
designation appeared as mechanical fitter in the paysheet, Ext. C & D as also in 
‘the attendance register, Ext. B. Accordingly, the claim made by Dhian Singh 
before the tribunal that he worked at first as a Diesel Mechanic cannot be accept- 
ed. It must be held that he worked all along as a mechanical fitter and his post 
which was a weekly paid post was inferior to that of a Disel Mechanic which was 
a monthly paid post 

7- As regards the union’s case that the Management was displeased with 
Dhian Singh as he took an active part in the work of the union, Khan Shramik 
t cr ess, no document has been produced to show that Dhian Singh took any 
"3' 1 ‘ all in the union work- He was a new man, not likely at once to lump into 
a position of leadership. His oral evidence that the Manager once threatened him 
for refusing to give up his connection with the union is not worthy of cred'l, the 
workman was directly under the Senior Engineer, Shri Das Gupta who stated that 
he was not aware whether Dhian Singh had joined any union at all. Hence this 
part of the union’s case also fails. 

8 My award, therefore, is that the management of Bankolla Colliery was jus- 
tified in terminating the services of Dhian Singh, Mechanical fitter and' the work- 
man therefore is hot entitled to any relief. 

Calcutta; 

The 1st September, 1967. 

fSd.) S. K. Sen, 

Presiding Officer. 

[■No 6/102/66-IR II.] 

S.O. 3348. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur, in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Tata Iron and Steel Company Limited, Jamadoba, Post Office 
Jealgora, District Dhanbad and their workmen employed in 6 and 7 Pits Jamadoba 
Collier^ and Jamadoba Power House which was received by the Central Govern- 
ment on the 12th September, 1967- 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVT. INDUSTRIAL TRIBUN AL-CUAf -LABOUR 

COURT, JABALPUR 

CAMP AT TELAIYA 
Dated, August 19, 1967 

Present : 

Sri G- C. Agarwala — Presiding Officer. 

Reference No. 49/64 (Dhanbad Tribunal) 

Reference No- CGIT/LC(R)(17)/67 (Jabalpur Tribunal) 

In the matter of an industrial dispute in relation to the Tata Iron and Steel 
Company Limited, Jamadoba, Post Office Jealgora, District Dhanbad and their 




3424 T,IE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 19G7/ASVINA 1 , 1889 [Past II- 


workmen, employed in 6 & 7 Pits Jamadoba Colliery & Jamadoba Power House. 
Appearances : 

For the employers . — Sri S, N. Singh, Asstt- Chief Personnel Officer of the 
Company. 

For the workmen . — Sri P. Chanda, President, Tata Collieries Workers’ 
Union, P O. Jealgora. District Dhanbad. 

Industry: Coal Mine- District; Dhanbad (Bihar). 


AWARD 

The following three issues as stated in the order ot reference were referred 
to Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad by Notification No- 
2/10/64-LRII dated 5th May. 1964. The proceedings remained pending before the 
said Tribunal from 11th May, 1964 till transferred to this Tribunal bv Notifica- 
tion No- 8/25/67-LRII dated 25th April, 1907: 

Issues 

(i) Whether the dismissal of Sarvashri Rameswar Ram, H. E. Khalasi. . 

Ramdhani Rajaor, Light Tyndal, Kali Raj war, Fitter helper of Jama- 
doba Power House of M/s. Tata Iron and Steel Company Limited, 
P.O. Jealgora, District Dhanbad, with effect from 27th November, 
1903 was justified? If not, to what relief are the workmen entitled? 

(ii) Whether the suspension of Shri Ramdas Rajaor, Hookman of Jamadoba 

Power House of Messrs Tata Iron and Steel Company Limited, with ’ 
effect from the 23rd November, 1963 as justified? If not, to what 
relief is the workman entitled? 

(ill) Whether the suspension of Sarvashri Sumintar Singh, underground _ 
trammer and Kallu Turi, miner of 6 & 7 pits Jamadoba Colliery of 
Messrs Tata Iron and Steel Company Limited, P.O. Jealgora, with 
effect from the 16th August, 1903 was justified? If not, to what relief 
are the workmen entitled? 

2 The parties filed their written statements before the Dhanbad Tribunal. 
Parties were required to file rejoinder on notices issued by this Tribunal but they 
did not do so with the result that the hearing commenced and evidence was 
recorded on 17th August. 1907. after which arguments were heard- 

3. Before the commencement of the hearing on behalf of the Union, Tata Col- 
lieries Workers’ Union, it was Intimated that Issues 2 & 3 would not be pressed and 
were given up. The controversy, therefore, remain with regard to the three 
workmen S/Sri Rameshwar Ram, Ramdhani Rajaor & Kali _ Raj war, who were 
dismissed by an order of the management dated 27th November, 1963- It may- 
be mentioned that at the time of dismissal there was an industrial dispute pending 
before the Dhanbad Tribunal No 42 of 1963 and therefore the management 
applied for approval of the action of punishment under sec. 33(2) (b) I-D. Act. 
The three concerned workmen also filed separate applications before the same 
Tribunal under Sec. 33-A I D. Act for breach of Sec. 33(2) (b). These applications 
remained pending before the Dhanbad Tribunal and were disposed of by an order 
dated 25tli January, 1965, a certified copy of which has been filed on behalf of the 
workmen and is Ex. W13- The said Tribunal dismissed the applications both of 
the management for approval and of the workmen under Sec-33-A on the ground 
that this main reference has already been referred for adjudication concerning the 
same dispute and therefore the entire question would be at large in the preseqf: 
reference. This question, therefore, that whether the management failed to take 
approval during the pendency of another industrial dispute has become redundant. 

4- The facts are within a narrow compass- Near the Pits No. 0 & 7 some 
workers of the collieries had set up temporary huts for their residence some 
years ago. According to the management, they were only 30 — 35 whereas accord- 
i-pr to the workmen the number of such huts were many more, about 150, and 
that some of the huts were of contract labourers also- This the workers had to do 
as they could not be provided with the residential quarters by the management. 
It appears that Jharla Mines Board of Health, a statutory body, raised an objec- 
tion to the existence of these huts and the overcrowding resulting therefrom by 
means of a 1 ?tter dated 23rd December, 1962 and thp management was required 
to get the unauthorised structures removed before 10th November, 1963. The 
management issued notices to their labourers to demolish and vacate the site and 
on their failure to do so they charge-sheeted some 30 workers. Af*er a domestic 
enquiry, thev were punished with suspension for 10 days. This Union took up 



Sec. 3(h)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA 1, 1889 3415 


the cause of the workers and conciliation proceedings ensued The report of the 
Conciliation Officer (Ex. E/2) dated August, 19b3 would show that the manage 
ment agreed to reinstate and pay wages tor the suspension period for such of 
them who removed the huts or agreed to do so within the specified time. For 
these concerned workmen an undertaking was given that they would remove the 
huts witnin two months and the management, therefore, agreed to pay them 
the wages of the suspension period in respect ol the punishment for violation to 
comply with the order. Since these concerned workmen inspite of the opportunity 
given to remove the huts within the period of two months as a insult cf un under- 
taking given in conciliation proceedings did not remove theii tuns the management 
again chaige-shcetcj the workmen by means of charge-sheets dated 10th October, 
1963 (vide Charge-sheets Ex E/3. E/4 A E/5) These wo, kmon in reply to the 
charge sheets intimated that the con-.truei.ion were not unauthorised and they had 
not disobiiel any lawful or reasonable ori'c - of the company under Cl. 19(1) nor 
have committed anv viulaTon of the rule, of Jharla Mines Board of Health so as 
lo be covered by Cl 19(19) of the Standing Orders Since the other three work- 
men covered by issue Nos. 2 & 3 which are redundant now were also similarly 
charge-shcett . a separate enquiry was h'ld bv Sri S N Sin a. Assistant Chief 
Personnel Officer on 23rd October, 1963 for each In the enquiry the management 
examined Iho Welfire Officer, Shrl S Kar, and th" thiee concerned workmen 
examined themselves The Enquiry Officer rocoulcd a flndin < on 23rd October, 
1963 holding them guilty of the charges and on receipt of the findings the manage- 
ment issued orders of dismissal on 20th November, 1963 (Ex E/0 E/9 A F./10) 

5. The case of the Union on behalf of the workmen is that the structures were 
not unauthorwed but had been set up with the peimission of Sri Sengupta, the 
then Engineer of the Power House some six to ten years ago They were, there- 
fore, not bound to lemove the structures. There were many hutments and out 
of them those about 31 in nu Tiber who were members of this Union were pirked 
up for punishment. Others belonging to the INTUC Union which is a favourite 
Union of the management were not touched nor were labourers of the contractor 
were required to remove the huts The extreme action of the punishment of 
dismissal was malaflde and was actuated by motive of victimization It was con- 
tended that violation to remove the huts was not a contravention of any of the 
clauses 19(1) o" 19(191 of the Standing Orders The enquiry was assailed on the 
ground that it was perfunctory and lacking in bonafldes, and the proceedings in 
the enquiry did not confirm to the principles of natural iustice. The management 
denied all the allegations and affirmed thal they had been quite indulgent and 
gave repeated opportunities to the workmen to remove their huts When Jharla 
Mines Boarl of Health threatened the management to prosecute them for the 
violation of the rules, they had to resort to this extreme action It was contended 
lhat the enquiry was honaflde and in goo 1 faith there having been no motive to 
vietimlse the workmen All those who had their huts were similarly served wiih 
notices and as these workmen remained adamant and did not remove the huts 
while others did so, there wn c no option left hut to proceed agrdnrf then and to 
dismiss them 

6 Taking up the dr<-t qnesMon whethei th° charge sheet for which the work- 
men have been punished is covered or not by the Standing Orders, the relevant 
clauses 19(1) & 19(19i are as follows (Ex E 25):— 

01. 19/l): Wilful insubordination or disobedience, w'hether alone or in com- 
bination with inothet or others, of anv lawful or lca'-onable order 
of a superior 

Cl. 19(19): Any breach of the Indian Mines Act, or of any other Act, or of 
aoy rules or bye laws thereunder, or of standing orders. 

7 On behalf of the Union, it is contended that the workmen were bound only 
to comply with an order which was reasonable and lawful and since they had set 
up the huts with the premission of the then Engineer S r I Seneuota, the ordpr to 
remove the huts was not reasonable or lawful On this question, it becomes mate- 
rial to examine whether they had really taken any such permission as contended 
on their hehalf S”i Seneuota is no more in the ser-vicp of the management and 
left the service of the companv some years ago There is no writing of SH Sen- 
gupta giving permission to set up huts and the only evidence In this connection is 
the oral staterpent of one of the workmen Sri Rnmeswar Ram fWwi) He ad- 
mitted that Sri Sengunta was onlv AssU Superintendent In the Power House and 
was his immediate boss Obviouslv he wa^ not a departmental head Hardly 
any reliance can be placed on such a bald statement of the workman that the huts 
had been set up with th° permission of Sri Sengupta II was for the workmen 
to have proved by convincing evidence that they had taken such a permission. In 



3426 THE gazette OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 29, 1967/ASVINA 1, 1889 [Pakt li- 


the charge-sheets (Ex.E/3, E/4 & E/5 j none of these workmen put up the pleu 
that they had taken permission from S d Sengupta, Only at the enquiry, stage, 
they raised this plea- Even if Sri Sengupta be assumed to have given cny per- 
mission expressed o' Implied, he was no, a competent person to do so, and hind 
down the management for the unaulnorised occupation of their land- It may be 
that these workmen like others had set up unauthorised structures within the 
knowledge of the management and the management took no action, requii'ng them 
to vacate the same. Their mere silence, however, will not operate as an estoppel 
or acquiescence. They allowed them to remain in possession so long they were 
not threatened with prosecution and when done so, they had no option but to re- 
quire the workmen to remove the unauthorised structures. Jbaria Mines Board 
of Health is a statutory body which has framed bye-laws and general orders under 
the Bihar & Orissa Mining Settlement Act, 1920. Clause 20A is relevant and runs 
as follows — 

20A The owner, agent or manager or mine shall be held liable if on lands 
with surface rights belonging to the owner, labourers are found liv- 
ing in unlicensed houses built either by the labourers or by the 
owner, agent or manager. 

With the above penal liability Imposed on the management, they had ny option 
but to resort to coercive mejiu: ’ so as to require their workmen to remove the 
unauthorised structures. The order, therefore, was obviously a reasonable and 
lawful one covered by Standing Orders 19(1). It was also a breach of rules and 
Regulation framed under a statutory Act so as to be covered bv the Standing 
Orders Cl- 19(19)- 

8- It was urged on behalf of the Union that instead of imposing penalty of dis 
missal, it was open to management to have proceeded against thesp workmen for 
criminal trespass under Penal Code or by civil action. Such a course no doubt 
was opened to management but when the persons concerned were own employees, 
It was reasonable and lawful on their part to require them to vacate their iand. 
For an outsider who was not their employee there could be no other course open 
but to proceed either under criminal law or by civil action It was a violation of 
a statutory rule with which they had been threatened by a letter cf Jbaria Mines 
Board of Health dated 28th November, 1963 (Ex. E/1). There Is, therefore, no 
merit in the contention that the defiance was not a misconduct under Sub-clauses 
(1) and (19) of Cl. 19 of the Standing Orders. 

9. The next question to he considered Is whether there was a honolide and pro- 
per enquiry conforming to rules of natural justice Except for stating in general 
terms In the written statement, of the workmen that the enquiry was perfunctory 
and did not conform to principles of natural justice nothin? was Indicated how 
it was so. Even Sri Rameswar Ram (W-W.l) in his statement did not state any- 
thing snecifle about any infirmity In the domestic enquiry- When questioned by 
his representative, he simply stated that he could not say If statements In the 
enquiry were correctly recorded. The insinuation was that the statements were 
not read over and explained to him in Hindi. This is far from correct The 
record of enquiry proceedings (Ex. E 7) would show that all the three concerned 
workmen signed the proceedings and there is an endorsement of the Enquiry 
Officer "recorded and explained in Hindi”. One of them Ramdhani Rajaor ex- 
pressed a desire that his statement should be explained to him In Hindi by one 
Sri B. B. Dutta who was present and this request was aeceeded to by the Enquiry 
Officer as Is evident by an endorsement recorded to this effect. The record of 
enouiry shows that the enquiring officer first examined the management witness 
Sri S. Kar and put questions to him He then examined each of the charge- 
sheeted workmen and put question* in orfUr to c’arlfy dubious points The 
questions and answers do not disclose anything to show that they were put with 
Irview to shatter them and bring out facts to support the case of the management 
by a close cross-examination- The finding Is based on the evidence and ad- 
mitted Dosftion that the structures existed on the land of the company and had 
not been removed. There Is nothing to indicate lank of honafldes or perversity 
In the finding, 

10. On the plea of victimisation there is no ground to suppose that the manage- 
ment was actuated bv anv bad faith. The first conciliation report dated August 
1963 shows that the management was extremely indulgent to all those who bad 
been charae-sheeted and vacated the order of punishment of suspension for 10 
davs and nald wages who removed or promised to remove the huts. Even f® 
these workmen, on the understanding given on their behalf, the management 
agreed to nav them wages for the suspension period Provided they removed the 
structures within two months. This would appear from page 5 para 11 of the 



.Sec, 3(ii)J THE GAZETIE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA 1, 1880 3437 


.report. Again iroin para 17 page d it would appear that for all the three con- 
cerned wurkmen o/Snn Kali Rujwar, Raindhani Kajaor and -Rallies war Ram, the 
management agieeu 10 pay wages 01 me suspension penod, 111 the next wage 
pcnon on tne sjjeemc condition mtu it uiey laiied 10 demolish the Iiuls within 
two months, they would render themselves liable lor disciplinary action, Para 
18 of the repon at page 7 shows that, me Union representative was saustied with 
the oiler 01 me management. Tnai unuei taking may nut strictly speaking be a 
settlement, beiore a Conciliation Officer as defined in Sec. 2(p) of the industrial 
Disputes Act, At any rale, it was an untiei tatting which should have been 
honoured by the workmen. They have to thank themselves if they have chosen 
to resile 110m the undertaking. The contention that these workmen and all 
others about thirty workers who were members of this Union were picked up 
for action and not such ot the workers who had also set up unauthorised struc- 
tures and belong to the 1NTUC Union is also of no merit. From the evidence 
of Sri Lai Beharl Mahato, management witness (E.W. 1) there were 30 to 35 huts 
which were unauthorised and ail were served with notices to demolish the same. 
All others except the three concerned workmen have demolished the huts. The 
statement of Sri Rameswar Ram (W.W. 1 ) that there were about 150 hutments 
and that no action was taken against others except 30 who were members of 
this Tata Collier es Workers’ Union is not indicated by any other evidence except 
by his own statement- In support of discriminations, two instances were illus- 
trated. One was of Dashrath who is said to have been a member of Tata Col- 
lieries Workers’ Union and was similarly charge-sheeted and dismissed. It in 
slid that as soon as he became member of INTUC Union he was re-employed. 
In support of this, management’s letter Ex- W/8 dated ICth August 1963 was 
filed to show that the dismissal order dated 5th August 1963 was cancelled. The 
conciliation report (Ex. E/2) shows thal while conciliation proceedings were 
going on, Dashrath was a member of this Tata Collieries Workers’ Union in 
August, 1963. It follows, therefore that he was reinstated while he was member 
of this Union and his case was being championed in conciliation- There is, 
thercfoie, no substance in this contention. Another case is illustrated bv the 
example of one Chulai Mundal who was suspended by an order dated 20th Decem- 
ber 1962 and by a subsequent order dated 2nd January 1963. this was withheld 
for four weeks (Ex. W/9 & W/101- These papers do not indicate anything- 
There is no question of victimisation or malafide when the workmen concerned 
admittedly dtd not remove the unauthorised structures when called upon to do 
so, in spite of the indulgence shown by the management by giving them further 
two months time and the conciliatory altitude shown by them in vacating the 
punishment of suspension and paying wages to the workmen. They have to 
thank themselves for the evil consequences visited as a result of their defiance. 

Decision: 

1. The result is thal these workmen S/Shri Rameswar Ram, Ramdhani Kajaor 
Sr Kail Rajwar are not entitled to any relief, their dismissal having been justified- 
The issue is answered accordingly. 

2. For issues No- 2 & 3, they having not been pressed bv the Union, are ans- 
wered against the workmen and It is held that the suspension of the concerned 
workmen was justified. 

3. No order for costs. 

(Sd.) G. C, Agaftwala, 

Presiding Officer, 
Central Industrial Tnbunal-eum-Labour 
Court, Jabalpur. 

19 8-87. 

[No. 2/10/B4-LKTL1 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 11th September 1967 

S.O. 3349. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dismitc exists between the employers in relation to the Kenduadih Collierv No- 
1/12 and 7/12 Inclines of Messrs East Indian Coal Company Limited. Post Office 
Kusunda. District Dhonhnd of wVdoh O. S Atwal and Comoanv (AsnnsoD 

are the RnHng nsri Selling Agents, end their workmen In respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 1 



3428 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA 1, 1889 [Pam II- 


And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute lor adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred -by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus- 
trial Tribunal, Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the said Act- 

Schedule 

Whether the action of the management of Kenduadih Colliery No- 1/12 and 
2/12 Inclines of M/s. East Indian Coal Co. Ltd., Post Office Kusunda, Dis- 
trict Dhanbad of which Messrs G. S. Atwal and Company (Asansol) are the 
Raising and Selling Agents, in refusing employment to Shri Tahir Khan, 
Night Guard/Chaprasi, with effect from the 5th November, 1906 was justi- 
fied? If not, to what relief is the workman entitled? 

fNo. 2/96/G7-LRII.I 


New Delhi, the 13th September 1967 

S.O. 83BMS. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Lodna Colliery, Post Office 
Jharia, District Dhanbad (Bihar) of Messrs Lodna Colliery Company 0920) 
Limited and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule 
hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section '1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14, of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Additional Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the 
said Act. 


Schedule 

Whether the management of Lodna Colliery, Post Office Jharia, District 
Dhanbad (Bihar) were justified in dismissing Shri Rambadan Singh, 
Night Guard, from service with effect from 24th November, 19<M5? If 
not, to what relief is the workman entitled? 

[No. 2/68/67-LRII.] 


S.O, 3381. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Khas Nirsha Colliery of 
Messrs Mohatta Bros., Post Office Nirsachatti, District Dhanbad. and their work- 
men in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Additional Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the said 

Art. 

Schedule 

Whether the management of Khas Nirsha Colliery of Messrs Mohatta 
Bros,, Post Office Nirsachatti, District Dhanbad were justified in termi- 
nating the services of Shri Nirod Baran Roy with effect from the 
13th March, 1967? If not, to what relief is the workman entitled? 

[No. 2/77/67-LRII.1 


New Delhi, the 10th September 1967 

S.O. 3352.— Whereas the Central Government is of ooinion that an industrial dis- 
pute exists between the employers in relation to the Kathara CpHlerv ' at National 
Coal Development Corporation Limited, Kathara, Post Office Kathara, District 
Hazaribaeh and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule 
hereto annexed; 




Sec, S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA 1, 1889 3429 


And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Addi- 
tional Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the said Act, 

Schedule 

Whether the management of Kathara Colliery of National Coal Develop- 
ment Corporation Limited, Post Office Kathara, is justified in terminat- 
ing the services of Shri Sadhu Saran Prasad, Dumper Operator, 
Grade-I, of Kathara Colliery with effect from the 19th October, 3982? 
If not, to what relief is the workman entitled? 

[No. 2/145/86-LRII,] 

S.O. 8353. — Whereas the employeis in relation to S, C. Rungta Colliery, Post 
Office Rungta Col'iery, District Sahdol (Madhya Pradesh) and their workmen 
represented by the Rungta Colliery Mazdoor Sangh, Post Office Rungta Colliery, 
District Shadol (Madhya Pradesh) have jointly applied to the Central Govern- 
ment under sub-section (2) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947) for reference to a Tribunal of an industrial dispute that exists between 
them in respect of the matter set forth in the said application and mentioned in 
the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the persons applying 
represent the majority of each party; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of 
section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, 
Jabalpur, constituted under section 7 A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

In view of the provisions contained in the Payment of Bonus Act 1965 (21 
of 1965), whether the workers of Messrs Rungta Colliery, Burlier 
(Madhya Pradesh) are entitled for bonus for the years 1064 and 1965. 

[No. 8/31/67-LRII.] 
BALWANT SINGH, Under Secy. 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 13th September 1967 

S.O. 3354. — Whereas the Central Government being satisfied that the public 
interest so required had declared by a notification made in pursuance of the 
provisions of the proviso to sub-clause (vl) of clause (n) of section 2 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), [being the Notification of the Govern- 
ment of India in the Ministry of Labour. Employment and Rehabilitation (Depart- 
ment of Labour and Employment) No, S.O. 959, dated the 15th March, 1967], the 
copper mining industry, to be a public utility service for the purposes of the said 
Act for a period of six months from the 25th March. 1967: 

And whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that public interest 
requires the extension of the said period by a further period of six months; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub- 
clause (vi) of clause (n) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 04 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby declares the said industry to be a public 
utility service for the purposes of the said Act for a further period of six months 
from the 25th September, 1987, 

[No. F 1/83/67-LR-I ] 

S.O. 3355. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947) the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
Ule Kerala State Arbitration Board, Trivandrum in the dispute between the 
employers in relation to the Travancore Titanium Products Limited and their 
workmen represented by the Titanium Products Labour Union, Titanium Workers’ 
Union and Travancore Titanium Products Employees' Union which was received 
by the Central Government on the 29th August, 1967- 




3430 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 28, 1967/ASVINA J, 1889 [Part II- 


JN THE ARBITRATION BOARD 
Present : 

Chairman 

1 Shri C- M- Mathew. 

Members 

2- Snrl A. Karunakaran- 
3. Shri K. Janardanan Pillai 
4- Mr. J. B. Soutar- 
5, Sri P- Balachandra Menon. 

B. Sri Prakulam Bhasi. 

7. Sri C- M- Stephen- 

IN THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTE 

Between 

The Management of Travancore Titanium Products Ltd., Trivandrum-7. 

An ii 

Their Workmen. 

Representatives : — 

1- The Managing Director, The Travoncore Titanium "I 
Products Limit 'd, Trivandrum-7. t 

2 Sri K- V. R. Shenoy, c/o M/s. Menon and PM. I For Management 

Advocates, Ernakulam. J 

3- Shri A. Venkatachalam. General Secretary, "1 

Titanium Products Labour Union, Trivandrum. [ 

4 Sri S. Vnradarajan Nair, President, Titanium i 

Products Labour Union, Trivandrum. j 

.7. Sri K. V- Surendranath, President, Titanium | 

Workers Union, Trivandrum- V For Workmen 

6. Sri K. Pankajakslian, General Secretary, Travan- 
core 1 Titanium Products Employees Union, 

Trivarcjrum. 

7. Sri K. Vclayudhan Nair, Vice-President, Travan- 
core Titanium Products Labour Union, Trivandrum- 

AWARD 

This Industrial Dispute between the Management of the Travancore Titanium 
Products Limited and their workmen relates to the claims for promotion of 31 
employees whose names are given below as stated in the order of reference- 

List of Persons 

1- A. Venkitaehalam — W/No. 531- 

2- K. Appukuttan Nair — W/No. 533- 

3 - K. Bhaskara Pillai— W/No. 534. 

4- K. Velayudhan Nair— W/No- 538- 

5- K- P. Ramachandran Nair— W/No. 552. 

6. S. P. Selvadurai — W/No. 664. 

7. V, Hariharan — W/No. 661. 

8- S- Sukumaran Nair — W/No. 126. 

9. C- C- Cberiyan — W/No. 203. 

JO. P. Krishna Pillai— W/No. 175. 

11- C- Thomas John — W/No. 105- 

12- K. Sivasankaran — W/No. 128. 

13. P. Parameswaran Thampi — -W/No- 646. 

14- G- Velukutty— W/No. 653. 

15. M- Damodaran Nair— W/No*- 557. 

16- R. Krishna PiUai— W/No- 558. 

17- R. Balakrishna PiUai — W/No. 559. 

18- David P Joseph — W/No. 560. 

19. T. Sukumaran Nair — Process Supervisor 

20. R- V. George — -Process Supervisor. 

21. R. Velaytidhan Nair — W/No- 537. 

22- K. Arjunan — W/No. 76. 

23- C. C. Varghese— W/No, 208. 

24. K- Sankaran — W/No- 231. 



Sec. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 25, 1%7/ASVINA 1, 1889 3431 


25. K. Madhavan— W/No- 198. 

26 P. Madhavan — W/No. 35- 

27- P. Kumaran Nair — W/No- 60- 

28. B. Dass— W/No. 150- 

29. Kuttan Filial— W/No- 114. 

30 V Sundarsanan — W/No- 221- 

31- Aliar Kunju— W/No. 80. 

The complaint raised bv all the 31 employees relates to the alleged denial 
of promotions to them and selecting juniors for higher posts in preference to 
them 

In 1904 tha Company effected the following promotions which can be grouped 
into the following 5 heads- 

A. Eight A grade process operators were promoted as charge hand operators 

in the plant; 

B. five charge hand fitters wer e promoted as Assistant Supervisors; 

C One, A Grade Electrician was promoted as charge hand Electrician; 

D. Four A Grade litters were promoted as charge hand fitters; and 

E. Six general labourers were promoted as B. Grade fitters- 

The above 31 workmen represented by the 3 unions viz. (1) Titanium Products, 
Labour Union (2) Titanium Workers’ Union and (3) Travancore Titanium Pro- 
ducts Employees’ Union, attacked these promotions on various grounds- By 
memorandum of settlement dated 5th November, 1964 marked as Lst- W19 in 
the case, the parties agreed, that those specific cases of denial of promotions 
effected after 1st November, 1963 already raised by the unions to the management 
will be reviewed by the Regional Labour Commissioner (C) Madras, and his 
findings thereon after hearing both the parties will be binding on noth the parties, 
that there workman, if any recommended for promotion by the Regional Labour 
Commissioner (C) Madras, as a result of the above review will be promoted in 
the next available vacancies in the cadre to which the promotion has been le- 
commended While the matter was thus pending with the Regional Labour Com- 
missioner (Cl Madras at the instance of the unions it was agreed to- withdraw 
the reference and refer it for the decision of the Managing Director of the Company 
by memorandum of settlement dated 22nd October, 1935, marked as Ext. W 20 
In the case- In that settlement also It was agreed by the unions that persons 
already promoted would not be reverted. While the matter was pending before 
the Managing Director, the unions withdrew from that settlement by their letter 
dated 20th June. 1966 as Is seen from Ext. W 27 conies of the proceedings before- 
Sri R. Prasad, Adviser II (Kerala State). Before the Adviser, it was agreed by 
both sides that the above question of promotions be referred for arbitration by 
the State Arbitration Board set up by the State Government. 

In accordance with the above agreement and in pursuance of the provisions 
of sub section (3) of sec-lion 10-A of the Industrial Disputes Act 1317 (14 of 1947), 
ihe Central Government published tho said arbitration agreemen' in the Central 
Government Gazette, date I Ctb December, 1<>CG The specific is ue fr;v~d and 
referred for determination in- ,’iis Arbitration Board runs as follows: — 

Whether the denial c-f promotion to llm persons as per li: t attached is 
ju. 1 Lied? If rot to what relief aro they entitled? 

The list of 31 persons attached to the Notification is the rame as quoted above. 

Accordingly, the matter was seized by this Arbitration Board on 17th Dec,, 
1966. The matter was posted for written statements of the parties to 31st Decem- 
ber, 1966: and they filed their statements on that date and their rejoinder state- 
monks in 7th January, 1967- The Unions in their rejoinder statement- on 7th 
January, 1.961, contend that the management has not 1 -cn odnp'-'o - <my tegular 
criteria or principle to accord promotion, but had her 1 chdnL'.r.r V pr rcmles 
and the c-t'rta for prom '-Lions on ev-ry ocoa„ijn ,u lhviil >" l ,i( o some 
persons fjnn netting promotions; that the claims of sen’or omM v t r : , were over- 
looked and that the principles laid down in the star "ng orders were violated 
or Ignored in effecting promotions and consequently tl ptomotmj, effected may 

h° u?di ml 7 - ...rip-wP nn'-Rcs be given pn lions w ; ' 1 effect from 

the dates on which their juniors were given promotions- The management on 
the other hand contends that promotion is recognised tj be a nr rrigerial function 
and so long as It is done in accordance with certain principles or criteria the 
action of the management cannot be questioned — that l-i ibis case the management 
acted on well established and healthy criteria and with full bona fldes; that there 




343 2 THE GAZETTE OE INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA 1, 1889 [Part II- 


lias been no violation of the Standing Orders; that the management had no 
intention of avoiding any particular employee, that the allegation that the princi- 
ples have been varied in different eases of promotion Is not correct and is denied; 
that those promoted are the really deserving employees and consequently no 
interference is called for in the promotions effected. The management would also 
add that since the introduction of Standing Orders for Staff and Workmen it 
has been recognised that promotion will be at the discretion of the management 
that the management has adopted the principle of seniority-eum-suitability for 
promotion in all cases and that the contention of the Unions that by Custom 
and long practice length of service and seniority were the guiding principles for 
promotion is not correct- 

The only point for determination is the issue referred for arbitration viz — 

Whether the denial of promotion to the 31 persons named in the list (referred 
to above) is justified If not, to wbat relief are they entitled? 

The 31 workmen are represented by the following 3 Unions, viz- 

1. Titanium Products, Labour Union; 

2. Titanium Workers Union; and 

3- Travancorc Titanium Products Employees’ Union. 

For brevity sake the Unions shall hereinafter be referred to in their order stated 
above as Union Nos. 1, 2 and 3 respectively Union No. 1 appears for persons 
Nos- 1 to 8, Union No. 2 for persons Nos- 9 to 20, and Union No- 3, for persons 
Nos. 21 to 31 referred to above. Person No. 6 was originally represented by Union 
No. 1- But that Union appears to have given up his claim and he was finally 
represented by Union No, 3. 

In the arbitration agreement the parties had agreed that the arbitrators shall 
make their award within a period of 30 days or within such further time as 
Is extended by mutual agreement between them In writting. The parties have 
agreed in writing to extend the said period up to 31st July, 1967- 

In the appendix to the claim statement dated 31st December, 1966 filed by 
Union No 2, It is stated that they do not press the cases of persons Nos. 14 and 
18. At the time of arguments, No. 1 Union gave up the claims of Nos. 2, 3. 5 and 
6 and pressed the claims of No. 1-A- Venkitachalam, No- 4, K. Velayudhan Nair, 
No- 7 V- Nariharan and No. 8 S- Sukumaran Nair- But the claims of No 8 
was pressed by Union No- 3, Union No- 3 did not press the claims of Nos 26, 
28. 29 and 31- Thus of the 31 persons, the claims of 9 persona viz- of Nos- 2. 3, 
5, 14, 18, 26, 28, 29 and 31 were not pressed. So their claims do not arise for 
consideration. 

Both sides have chosen to adduce evidence to substantiate their contentions- 
The Unions have examined eleven witnesses WW1 to V, Wll and proved Exts. W1 
to W51. Of the above, witnesses WW2, WW7, WW8, WW9 and WWJ1 are the 
aggrieved parties themselves viz .claimants Nos 9 19, 23, 22 and 17 respectively 
WW4 WW1 WWG and WWIO are responsible Officers in the Company, namely, 
the Plant Controller, Plant Manager, Production Manager and the Secretary of 
the Company respectively- WW1 is an A Grad'’ Operator and an Executive 
Member of No 2 Union who was an Observer in the Promotion Committee- 
WW3 is a Process Supervisor. On the side of the management, their Pcrsonnel- 
cttm-Welfare Officer is examined os MW1 and Exts- Ml and M22 were proved. 
Their case is brought out through their Officers examined on the side of the 
Unions also 

Before decking, vwth individual case; it would be worthwhile to deal with 
certain general legal principles applicable to promotion. Both sides having relied 
upon the Supreme Court ruling in 1966-1 LL.T 402, the relevant portion can be 
quoted with advantage ;- — 

“We are of opinion that both the contentions raised on behalf of the appellant 
are correct Generally sneak'n promotion i r a management function; 
but i i may he r°cnenlscd that there may be (■cessions when a Tribunal 
mar h^ve to interfere with promotions made by the management where 
It is felt that persons superceded have been so superceded on account 
of Malafides or Victimisation", 

Another ruling relied upon by the Unions was the following observations con- 
tained in 1961-1 LLJ 686 which runs as follows : — 

“If an employer deliberately uses his power of promoting employees in a 
manner calculated to bow discord among his workmen or to undermine 



Sec. 9(ii/] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASV1NA 1, 1889 3433 


the strength of their Union, he is guilty of unfair labour practice 1 
therefore hold that a Labour Tribunal can enquire whether a number 
of promotions made by the employer amounted to unfair labour practice 
or Victimisation’’. 

* 

5. Based upon the above principles the main points for investigation would 
be whether there was mulafides, victimisation or unfair labour practice in the 
promotions In question In the first place we will examine the provisions regard- 
ing promotu n in the Standing Orders of tjie Company The Standing Orders for 
workmen is Ext M18 and the Standing Orders for the Staff is Ext. M14 clause 
20(b) in Ext. M13 and clause 8(b) in M14 are the relevant provisions 

Clause ?0Mi) in Mill runs as follows:— 

“Promotion shall be at the discretion of the management. In order, how- 
ever, to afford an opportunity to the deserving workers, a Promotion 
Committee will be constituted consisting of the Head of the Department, 
where the vacancy will occur, and the Secretary of the Company. 
(Provided that in the case of promotions in a Department, for which 
the Secretary is himself the Head of the Department, the Promotion 
Committee will consist of the Secretary and any other Officer nominated 
by the Management). A representative of the Works Committee to be 
chosen by the worker’s representative in the committee shall attend 
the meeting of the Promotion Committee as an Observer This com- 
mittee shall, however, be a 1 ccommendatory body and the ultimate 
dflslon regarding promotion will rest with the Managing Director who 
will ordinarily give due consideration to the recommendations of the 
committee-” 

The provisions in clause 8(b) of Ext. M14 being similar, it is unnecessary 
to quote the 5 ame over again. 

That the above were the provisions in force at the time ot the impugned 
promotions, is admitted by the Untons It follows therefore that promotion shall 
tv> at the discretion of the Management and that the ultimate decision rests with 
the Managing Director. The Promotion Committee contemplated in the above 
provisions is only to help the Managing Director and it is only a recommendatory 
body- It is also seen that the workmen's representative In the Promotion Com- 
mittee is only an Observer- Now we will see whether any of those provisions 
have been violated in this case, in regard to the attacked promotions- The 
relevant evidence consists of U 10 evidence of WW8 the Production Manager and 
WWlO the Secretary of the Company who were members cl the Promotion Com- 
mittee and WW11. the General Secretary of the Union No 2 who was the Observer 
in the relevant Promotion Committee WW1, being the Observer in a subsequent 
Promotion Connittee, we arc not very much concerned with his evidence, in 
this matter- We will examine the evidence if WW11 He swears that he was 
the Observer tn the Promotion Committee which made the recommendations re- 
garding the attacked promotions Ha also states that it was a list of selected 
persons which was placed before the Committee, that he had pointed cut the 
defects in the Marks system, lhat the criteria for promotion had not been pre- 
viously published that the qualification for promotion had been preO msly fixed 
and the cadre strength in each category hud not been fixed etc He also proves 
Ext- W42, to W47 Ext W47 is concerning Government Servant only and that 
came into force long after the disputed promotions- The other documents which 

came into existence after the disputed promotions arc mainly concerned with 

the future criteria for promotions, which ended probably in Ext W 1 , dated 17th 
June, 1965, where by It has been leclared that the promotions in lower categories 
of employees mentioned therein will be governed purely by seniority and the 
recommendations of the Officer., under whom the employees aie working provided 
they have got a clean confidential record- That does not In arv ’va~ i -'mlidate 
the svstem adopted for promotions in 1964 Thus the evidence of WWll does 
not go to establish victimisation, malaflelds or unfair labour practice 

Coming to the evidence of WW6, he swears to tic o-isteneo of n Selection 

Committee of which he was the Chairman He nr that the basis of the 

selections were discussed tn the Promotion CommlUee. The selection was then 
made by the Selection Committee and the selection v’-'s made on the above basis 
and then it was presented to the Promotion Committee wh»re the Observer was 
also present. Th e existence of a Selection Committee which helped the Promotion 
Committee cannot be construed as a violation of the prove ions In the Standing 
Orders. It appears that the Selection Committee only functioned a K a sub- 
committee which worked under the directions of the Promotion Committee- 
Moreover, the existence of that Committee was not taken up specifically as a 



3434 THt GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 25, 1967/ASVINA I, 1889 [Part II— 


violation ol the provisions o£ the Standing Orders in the pleading of the Unions' 
Coming to the evidence of WW10, the following extract from his deposition was 
specifically relied upon by tne Management. 


“There are recognised Unions in the Factory, by the Management, one" 
aililiated to the INTuC, one of the AiTCJC and one to, the UTUC. 
We have about 600 workers in the factory. As far as I am aware no. 
Officer in the Company and I have no prejudice or ill will against any 
of the employees or workmen ol the Company Including the ol refined 
to this Board. In effecting the promotions in this case, the manage- 
ment and the members in the Promotion Committee acted moBt bona fide 
and in the best interest”. 


“Among the 31st employees, mentioned in this reference M/s A 
Venkidachalam, K- Velayudhan Nair, C. C- Cherian (No, 9) r' 
Balakrlshna PlUai No. 17 and R. Velayudhan Naii (ho. 21 ) are ’ the 
Union Officials- The fact that these persons were Union Office-bearers 
has never lnflunced our decisions in the matter of these promotions- 
We give time-off to office-bearers of Union who attend Conferences 
or discussions either in the Company premises or outside- This time 
off given Is not considered as absenteeism on loss of pay. It is consi- 
dered as on-duty”. 


No doubt th s above portion was brought out in cross by the Management’s 
counsel. But it is noteworthy that nothing has been brought out in the re- 
examination questioning the above statement of the witness. His evidence as It 
stands, there Is no reason to disbelieve his testimony. 


The Unions have not adduced any reliable evidence to show that the Manage- 
ment had any prejudice or grudge against any one of the above 31 persons. 
There is also no positive evidence that any one of the 31 persons was denied 
promotion or that the cage of any one was not considered for promotion, because 
of his Trade Union activities. It. was also pointed out on behalf of the Manage- 
ment that there was no evidence to show that there were any strained relations 
between the Management and the 31 employees in question or from which such 
an inference was possible. 


We will next go Into the details of the promotions effected. In the first instance 
we win take Into' consideration the case of eight A grade Pjocass Operators 
promoted as charge Hand Operators in the plant which is one of the items attacked 
against. It appears that on 1st February, 1964, 23 senior most A grade Operators 
named in Ext. MIA were considered for promotion by the Promotion Committee, 
as charged Hand Operators- In fact there were only 25 A Grade Operators at that 
time- Their names and the marks obtained by them under several heads are 
given In Ext- MIA- The criteria foUowed are given in Ext. Ml. The Promotion 
Committee recommended 8 charge hands for promotion on the basis of marks 
obtained and the criteria provided in Ext. Ml. It appears that the second part 
of the criteria on page 2 of Ml regarding absence on loss of pay of more than 
14 days in either of years of 1962 and 1963 was waived because it was found 
that If they applied that criteria only 3 persons were qualified for consideration 
for promotion to the 8 vacancies which meant that they will have to promote 
hi expcr enced B grade Operators or take from outside. That was done for bene- 
flttlng the maximum number of A grade Operators- The 8 A grade Operators 
who * r er j selected for promotion under Ext. Ml list for promotion were forwarded 
to the Managing Director and he cuntl-med and approved their promotion and 
uQCordin.iy they were promoted as charge-hand Operators from lGlh February, 
1954. The above said facts are sworn to by MY/I, the Personnel-cum-Welfare Officer- 
Of course be has sworn that his knowledge is from the records only ard that 
It was net in the company at that time He joined the company only in SojPembsr 
1961, iu t’> il enparity However the above lacts sworn to fiy MV/1 rr: not 
disputed ii. a iss-oxami.natio i by the Unions. The above set o£ prnmr Eons is 
alts ‘hod hv p jst of the failed candidates in these proceedings. Three r ' them 
did not come forward to attack the promotions. Another set namely N is. 14, 
18 3, and and 2, among the list of persons attacking these promotions have 
'-oh . luent , bven up their contention^. Thus the remaining persons, atmeking 
Inc Mwni, m; are numbers 15, 16, 1, 13, 17, 4, 6, 21 and 7 according to the list 
of persons nodded. 0_ Ihes Sri R. Balakrlshna Fillai, alone has come forwaid 
to swear as WW1. No dout I, he is the Secretary of one of the Unions arid an 
ai,"rWod party In this grou i. There Is n question mooted bv the Unions that 
the criteria fixed in Ml, wa not proper and that was intended to avoid certain 
persons which according to the Unions may amount to victimisation an,] unfair 
labour practice. Here again we have to revert to the provisions in the Standing 
Or ffirs to examine the competency of the Management to fix such standards- 
In the first place. Ihere is nr thing in Ext M13. Cl 20i'B) prohibiting fixation of 
mch criteria by the Management. When It la specifically provided that promotion 



3435 


t ‘ FC - 3(h)] l HE GA^El'lE OF IMJIA : SnPl EMBER 23, 19t>7/ASVINA 1, 1889 


shall be at the discretion of the Management and that the ultimate decision re- 
garding promotion will rest with the Managing Director, we think that the com- 
petency of the Management in fixing the criteria for promotion cannot be ques- 
tioned. In other words, it is the function of the Management to lay down the 
criteria- But at the same time, the criteria will be open to attack to see whether 
the same was intended for avoiding any particular employees or to see whether 
there was any victimisation, malafides or unfair labour piactice involved in setting 
up the said criteria. It is seen from the evidence that the said criteria was 
applied lO one and all alike all the 25 persons were subjected to the same test. 
That goes a long way against the contentions of the Unions. No doubt, they were 
tested under several heads, -ts .seen from Ext. Ml and MIA, It was the eight 
persons vvho scored the highest marks, who were selected, subject to the solitary 
instance, namely the case of No, 5 Sri Venkitachalam in Ext. Ml(a). He is No. 1 
in the list of persons notified among the claimants in these proceedings. He scored 
a total of 82 marks only and No. 15, Sri N. S. Pillai who scored only 79 marks 
as per Ext- MIA were promoted So also No- 24, Sri K. Sankara Moorthl, who 
snored 82 marks, i.e. the same marks as Sri Venkitachalam also was promoted. 
It is this, apparent injustice, which was the target of attack against Ml and MIA. 
Sri Venkitachalam was avoided by the virtue of the first part of the criteria on page 
2 of Ml. That provision enjoins that those of the employees who were on loss 
of pay lor more than 50 days on an average for 1902 and 1 9GB will be excluded 
lor consideration ior promotion- Admittedly, Venkitachalam, is an Union official. 
According to the Union, such a provision was included to exclude the Union 
workers like Venkitachalam and R. Balakrishna Pillai. It may be observed here 
that Sri R. Balakrishna Pillai, No. 11 in Ext. Ml(n) got only 41 marks and he 
was eliminated on account of the lower marks. All the other employees In this 
group got only lower marks than the promoted candidates. So on the basis of 
Exts, Ml and MIA, they could have no complaint and their grievances appear 
to be unfounded. 

However. r?garding Sri A Venkitachalam we wish to make the following 
obse<w : d'on ; on equitable grounds. It has come out in evidence that Sri A. Venkita- 
chalam has absented himself on some occasions on accoun! of bad health also. 
It was casually pointed out that a trmsfer to some other section lik" clerical 
Section may be useful to him. In view of his present health conditions and 
considering the fact that, he is an active Union official, the Management would do 
''veil to giv= him a transfer to some other section according to his qualification, 
if rmrJ when he applies for the same This suggestirn wc make on account of 
equitable considerations and because ho had scored good marks and failed on 
account of the test of excessive absenteeism. 

Coming to the question of excessive absenteeism to be put as a criterion, against 
promotion, a lot of evidence have been put in by both sides- MW1 swears that, 
ttie abst- r+eeism on loss of P'iv is very high in this factory, coming to an average 
of 17 to 18 per cent and that from his experience it has been found that absentee- 
ism above about 7 per cent is considered as bad by many managements and 
industries He also would add that not only such absentees will not be promoted 
but they will be discharged from the service oi the factory hi other companies. 
Tie would also further add that absenteeism of workers would further affect the 
quantity and qualify of production j id the absenteeism of charge hands will also 
alfect effectively- He was the Assistant Commissioner for Labour (Ceniral), before 
he joined the company In September 1964. Thus he was speaking from his previous 
experhme Tn this question, the Unions have produced Ext- W12, to show that 
such absenteeism exists) in other factories also- Ext. W12, is the 16th Report by 
the Third Lok Sabha Committee on Public 1 Undertakings in March 198(5 On page 
l’l, para 77, it is observed as follows: — 

“A rather disturbing feature which the Committee noticed was on absenteeism 
rate of 18 per 1 cent in the factory. They were Informed that authorised 
leav* accounted for 8 per cent and the balance alone could be credited 
to absenteeism. Even this is a high figure. The Committee recommend 
thnt effective steps should be taken to reduce absenteeism even by 
offering incentives, if necessary.” 

The Unions relied upon the statement in para 78 of the same book that in 

F.A.C T A'waye also absenteeism has increased. That also has been criticised by 
the Committee. Ext M15, is a statement showing the number of days on which the 
25-A Grade Operators have absented themselves on loss of nay. Ext. M18 is the 
same statement for 1964 to 1966 regarding Sri A- Venkitachalam and 7 other 
Operators. Ext. M15 shows that Venkitachalam absented on loss of pay in 1962, 
for 182 days and in 1963, for 115 days- Ext M13 shows that in 1964. 1965 and 



3436 i he gazette of India : September 23, 1967/asvina i, isso t r ap r u- 


1068 the absenteeism of Sri Venkitachalam was at the rate of 176, 212 and 176 
respectively. These Exts- also show that some others also were absenting them- 
selves on loss oi pay to a great extern. Ext. Ml (a) would show that seven out 
of the 25 employees considered ror promotion were disqualified on the ground of 
excessive absenteeism, though all others excepting Vcnkitehalam, got only lower 
marks. In the above circumstances, It cannot be sain tnai the Company was 
unjustified in taking that point as a criterion against promotion. It may be alter 
consideration of all the above aspects that the Managing Director has passed an 
order on Juiy 16tn, 1966, copy of which is Ext. W9, to the effect that in order to 
discourage absenteeism in the factory, with a view to increasing production efforts, 
in future, no employee who has more than 50 days leave on loss of pay on the 
average in the 3 calendar years preceding the year In which the vacancy is eanction- 
ed to be filled up, will be considered for promotion/seleetion, to higher grades/ 
posts. That shows that now it has been settled that this excessive absenteeism 
will be treated a disqualification. 

There is a case for the Unions that the criteria should have been published 
earlier- The basis on which the promotions in question were effected on the 
reoemmendations of the Promotion Committee contained in Exts Ml to M7 the 
genuineness of which has been admitted by the Unions. Those documents also 
would show that the claims of most of the 31 employees named In the order of 
reference were duly considered for promotion- In the circumstances the fact 
that the criteria were not published earlier has not seriously prejudiced the 
omployees in question. It follows therefore that their grievances are unfounded. 

Incidentally, the Unions pointed out two cases of promotions given to M/ s. 
.K. V- George and V. Donas in 1963 in which the principle of absenteeism was 
ignored. Those were promotions which took place before the disputed promotions 
which were effected in 1964. It was only subsequently that steps were taken to 
in 'he rising absenteeism with special reference to the consideration of em- 
ployees for supervisory posts and as a result, the criterion of disqualifying men 
having an average of over 50 days absence on loss of pay for two previous years 
(1902 and 1963) was introduced and marks also were allotted for attendance. 
It was under these circumstances that this criterion was not applied for the selection 
of M/s. K. V, George and V. Donas. It is pointed out on behalf of the Manage- 
ment, that after the criteria was Introduced in 1964, as per Ext. Ml, no promotion 
in Supervisory Posts have been made without the criteria of absenteeism b°ing 
strictly applied to one and all; and now that rule has come to stay as per Ext. W9 

Another point taken up by the Unions was that before the present Manage- 
rirfnt took over the Company, different criteria prevailed when A Grade Operators 
were promoted. In the first place there is no clear evidence or data produced to 
show the criteria under which promotions were effected in those earlier days. 
Ext M13 and M14 had not come into effect in those days. Those p-omotions 
made long ago are also not in dispute in these proceedings- Even assuming that 
different criteria were followed in those days, that does not mean that the present 
Management cannot apply different criteria subsequently. There appears to have 
been .no Promotion Committee in those days which came into effect only by 
Ext. M13 and M14. Consequently promotions made In those days based cn the 
subjective satisfaction and recommendation of the respective officers and depart- 
mental heads, cannot be compared with the promotions effected by the present 
Management mainly on the basis of the provisions in M13 and M14- 

This leads us to the point raised by the Unions that the distribution of marks 
(weightage to various factors) adopted for promotions was not fair and that 
very low weightage only was given for service and seniority and that the opi- 
nions and impressions of the officers concerned were given too much weight. In 
tliis connection, the question of filling up Ext. W4, confidential report form 
was also made the subject matter of criticism. The main thing which was pointed 
out in this regard was that the adverse comments made in such confidential re- 
ports were not brought to the notice of the employees concerned. It is in this 
connection that, the union relied upon Ext. W47 regarding the keeping of confi- 
dential records of Government servants, wherein there is a provision for com- 
munication of such remarks to the employees concerned. As has alreadv been 
pointed out, Ext.. W17 cannot be made applicable to the employees in factories 
and it may be noted also that even in Governments the rules came into existence 
only in August 1966- 

No doubt it may be necessary for the sake of natural justice that such ad- 
verse comments may be notified to them so as to afford an opportunity to such 
employees to amend their ways and conduct in future. However in this cose. 



3fc. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE Oh INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA 1, 1889 3437 


it has not been established by the unions as to the particular manner in which 
such non-notiflcations has prejudiced the employees in question. There is 
no case tor the unions that any particular superior was prejudiced towards any 
particular employee in question and that any particular supervising officer who 
had occasion to deal with the confidential reports had done any prejudicial 
act to any employee concerned. So the arguments in this regard of the unions 
have only to be repelled. Coming to the question of more weightage for senior- 
ity, it was pointed out that for all non-selection posts, the main criteria should 
be seniority by length of service, unless proved inefficient or unsatisfactory on 
record- In this connection, it is also pointed out that the total marks for service, 
according to Ext. Ml was 35 out of a total of 165 and that was not fair and was 
unjust. It cannot be said that seniority alone could be the criterion, even in the 
lowest cadres but seniority cum suitability should have been the criteria. That 
principle was not seriously opposed on behalf of the unions. So it was for lind- 
ing out suitability, more percentage of marks were allotted by the Management, 
We think, that the same cannot come within the perview of victimisation, un- 
fair labour practice or malafldes, when it is seen that the same rule was made 
applicable to one and all of the employees concerned, Further it is seen that 
some of the other items for which more marks have been put, as confidential 
reports interviews etc- could also partly depend upon their length in service 
and experience and application and aptitude to their work. However it may 
be recalled in this connection that no management is competent in fixing their 
own standards in the case of promotions, provided malafldes have nof been 
made out. 


That the Management had no idea of victimising the union officials is also 
seen from another circumstance pointed out by the management. Reference 
was made to Ext. M 8 , from which it is seen that Sri A. Sukumaran W/No. 578 
Joint Secretary of the Titanium Workers Union and Sri A. Jawaharlal, another 
Trade Union official (WWJ) of the workers’ Union have been promoted. In this 
connection, it was also pointed out that excepting for WW11, Balakrishna Pil’ai, 
the aggrieved persons have not come forward to swear to their individual griev- 
ances. Even Sri Venkitachalam (No. 1 in the list) has not gone into the box, 
though he was taking active part in the proceedings like cross-examining the 
witnesses arguing his case and even submitting hearing notes. The individual 
rase regarding No. 1 Venkitachalam has already been dealt with. As leeards the 
others in the above group of A grade Process Operators, the only point they 
have to urge in their favour is seniority as against those already promoted as per 
Ext. Ml list. Most of the complainants have secured only very poor marks 
under Ext. MIA. On the whole the arguments of the unions in general, have 
only to be repelled. 


Promotion of 5 charge-hand fitters as Assistant Supervisors , — 

The next point for consideration would be the attack against the promotion of 
5 charge-hand fitters as Assistant Supervisors, by Sri K. Madhavan who was not 
promoted. It is seen that there were 5 posts of Assistant Supervisors to be filled 
up from the category of charge-hand fitters. Six senior most, charge-hand fitters 
were interviewed in December 1963. The selection list is Ext. M 3- On the basis 
of the marks scored by them, five candidates were selected. Sri K. Madhavan, 
W/No. 198. No. 25 in the list of persons mentioned in the order of reference and 
No. 6 in Ext, M3 complains that he was denied promotion unjustifiably. No 
doubt, as is seen from Ext. M3, he got the same marks as that of Sri K. N. Chal- 
lappah Achari, No. 3 in Ext. M3, Between the two, Sri Chellappan Achari was 
selected because he got mo*e marks in the interview — 19 as against 17 as can be 
(Seen from Ext, M3, As regards attendance both of them got 5 marks each and 
for length of service 8 marks each. Sri Madhavan has not come forward to 
iswear particularly regarding his alleged preferential claims if any as against the 
promoted Chellappan "Achari, nor as to how the Management has acted prejudi- 
cially to him legally or factually- In these circumstances, we hold that the 
unions have not established how the complaint of denial of promotion to Sri 
Madhavan is not justified. The claim in this respect of Sri. Madhavan has only 
to be denied. 


Promotion of one A Grade Electrician as charge-hand Electrician . — 

There was vacancy of a charge-hand in the electrical section in May 1964. 
It appears that a practical test was held in which the senior most four electri- 
cians were called for the test. The selection list is Ext. M4, Only Sri K. Goni- 
nathen Nair, No. 1 in Ext. M4 sat for the test. He secured 133 marks out of 200 
and was promoted, as he got the qualifying marks. Sri S. Sukumaran Nair and 



3438 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVIXA 1 , 1880 [Pari H~ 


Sri K. Sivasankaran, No. 8 and No. 12, respectively in the list of persons attached 
to the reference order and No. 3 and No. 4 respectively in Ext. M4 have raised 
complaints against the promotion. Sri Francis Decru?, No. 2 in Ext. M4 who is 
stated to be senior to the complainants have not come forward to impeach the 
taid promotion. MW1, has given evidence regarding this promotion. He has 
svvorn that Sri Gopinathan Nair has passed the Electrical Supervisors tests also. 
It may also be noted here that neither Sri Sukumaran Nair nor Sri Sivasanka- 
ran has gone into the box to show how the promotion of Sri Gopinathan Nair 
was illegal or irregular. In these circumstances the complaint in this respect is 
baseless and has only to be rejected. 

Promotion of 4 A Grade fitters as charge-hand fitters . — 

The following persons in the list attached to the reference order have challen- 
ged this set of promotions. 


Name 


Serial No. in the list. 


1. P. Kumaran Nair 

27 

2. B. Dass 

28 

3. Kuttan Pillai 

29 

4. C. Thomas John 

H 

5. C. C. Verghese 

23 

6. C. C. Cherian 

9 

7. P. Krishna Pillni 

10 


Of the above 7 persons Sri B. Dass No 28 and Sri Kuttan Filial S- No. 29, did 
not press their claims at the time of arguments. So the claims of the other five 
a'one were pressed by the unions and their claims alone arise for consideration. 
Of the above 5, Sri C. C. Cherian and Sri c. C. Varghese alone went into the 
box as WW2 and WW8 respectively. MW l, has sworn to the case of the Manage- 
ment, regarding their case in this respect. The complaint of the first three 
namely M/s . Kumaran Nair Dass and Ruthin PUlai. is that they were not given an 
opportunity to mrticinate in the se'f--eti«n charge-hand fitters. Of these, as we 
have already stated, the case of SI. No, 27, Sri Kumaran Nair, alone arises for 
consideration. It appears that there were three vaccancies of fitters charge-hands- 
A practical test was given to 5 senior, A grade fitters on 5th November 1963. 
Ext. M0 is the selection list. Those three who got the highest marks were 
selected. Another vacancy arose within 6 months of the test and on the recom- 
mendation of the promotion committee, Sri K. Subbayan Arhari, No. 4 in Ext, 
M8, who stood fourth according to ihr ra.u ko was selected- The first two (M/s. 
Kumaran Nair and Dass) were not recommended for consideration hy the Engineers 
concerned which was a critcrian followed for that promotion. The circumstances 
and the principles under which that selection was made, has been set fourth in 
para 8 of the written statement of the Management; that aspect has been sworn 
to by MW1. One of the principles observed in that selection was that only those 
who have been recommended by at least two of the engineers, out of four were 
considered for selection. Thus the above two persons (M/s. Kumaran Nair and 
Dass) who were not so recommended got disqualified for selection. Here it may 
be noted that the said Sri Kumaran Nair has not got Into the box. Hence the 
evidence of MW1, in this respect stands unchallenged. 

As regards Sri Kuttan Pillal S. No. 29, In the first place, he gave up his con- 
tentions. Further he has all along been working as Rubber I.iner, which is a 
different trade, from a fitter’s trade Hence he was not considered for selection. 
This aspect has been sworn to by MW1, So there is no merit in his complaint 
also. 

Now we will consider the case of Sri C. Thomas John (S. No. 11) in the list. 
It appears that he got the least marks under M8 and ho failed in the practical 
test having got only 15 marks out of 50 marks, and therefore he was not selected, 
A contention was raised by union No. 1 that Sri Subbayan Achari, No. 4 in Ext. 
M6 was given higher mark for length of service than Sri Thomas John, even 
though both of them joined the company on the same date. This so called ano- 
moly was explained by MW1. Sri Thomas John was promoted as A Grade fitter 
only on 1st November 1958 whereas Sri Subbayan Achari was promoted as A 
Grade fitter as early as 18th September If 50. The marks for length of service 
waa based on the 'service of the workmen concerned in the category m which 
they were working viz. as A Grade fitters. Thus Subbayan Achari got 8 marks 



Six, 3(iij] THE GAZETTE OI INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1067/ASVJNA 1, 1 889 3339 


.more than Sri Thomas John according to his length of service in the category. 
Thus it is clear that the claim of Sri Thomas John as against Sri Subbayan 
Achari is unfounded and devoid of merit. 

Sri C. C. Varghese: 

Next, we will consider the case of Sn C. C. Varghese (S. No. 23) in the list, 

He has examined himself ns WWli and has proved Exts. W14 and W13 and W40. 
Ext. 40 is the certificate of proficiency regarding the training he had in the trade 
of weldors (electricity). Ext. W14 is the petition filed by him on 14th February 
1961 attacking the promotion ol ins junior, K. N. Divakaran (W/No. 257) who 
waj promoted as charge hand welder with effect Irom 1st January 1961. His case 
Is that the above said Sn Dlvakarun’s promotion, superseding his legitimate 
cianns \W! illegal, and that he was not Cc iioidered at the time of selection under 
Ext. M 6 , Ext. \v 13, is unothei petition nn a by him on 7th February 1966 regarding 
the promotion of Divakaran, who was h is junior. Prima facie his case appears 
to be a hard ease. Hut his claim m these pioceedings is disputed by the Manage- 
ment on the following leenmcal gicunds. Management relies upon Ext. Will and 
Exis. \\ U and W39 settlements according to which his dispute cannot come up 
ini" LOnsiclcrution belote this ArLniatiou Bcaid. In Ext. W19, it was specifically 
agreed between the management and the unions that those specific cases of denial 
of promotions utter 1st November 1963 alone were to be reviewed. From Ext. 
W20, they rely upon the provision under clause 3 (lii) that no persons already 
promoted will be reverted as a result of the settlement which may be arrived at 
between the parties in these proceedings. Further, they rely upon the fact that 
there was already a settlement regarding the claims of Sri C- C. Varghese on 
12th October 19G1 under Ext. W39 which runs as follows:— 

“The Managing director agreed to review- the cases of the Fitters and Welders 
mentioned in item III (a) and (b) of the Union’s letter dated 14th February 1991, 
most sympathetically, on 1st January 19H2- That that agreed settlement was 
inclusive of the case oi Sri C. C, Varghese could be seen from Ext. W33. The con- 
tention put forward by the Management now is that, there was already a settle- 
ment regarding Sri Varghese in Ext. 39 and hence that cannot be reagitated now. 
The unions on the other hand would contend that even inspite of Ext. W39, the 
managing director has not done anything till now, even after 5 years regarding 
the said Sri C, C. Varghese. That appears to be a hard state of affairs. Under 
such circumstances his claim could have been considered at the time of the 
promotion of A Grade fitters as charge hand fitters, It also appears from the 
evidence and circumstances that his technical qualification under Ext. W40 was 
not taken into account in promoting Sri Divakaran as against Sri Varghese. The 
only point sworn to by MW1 in favour o 1 Sri Divakaran’s promotion is that Sn 
Divakaran has studied up to V from white Sn Varghese has studied only upto 
Malayalam 6 th class and hence Divakaran had better general qualifications. As 
regards W4G, certificate the management would say that the same was not pro- 
duced before the management for consideration of his claims. In support of that 
argument, Management has produced Ext. M12 workmen’s Record regarding Sn 
C. C. Varghese. It is true that the certificate had not been specifically mentioned 
in any of the relevant columns in Ext. M12. But in the column of “last employers’ 
he has stated corporation electric workshop Madras, wherefrom he had obtained 
Ext. W40. Another aspect pointed out on behalf of the Management in regard 
to the claim of C. C, Varghese is that Divakaran’s promotion was affected in 
1961, based on the recommendations of the then engineers, concerned, who are 
not now in the service of the company. Ext. Ml 3 and the provisions regarding 
promotion committee came into existence long after Sri Divakaran’s promotion. 
In 1961, the promotions were not done through a promotion committee; 'but weio 
based on the subjective satisfaction and recommendation of the departmental 
officers concerned. Hence the said promotion cannot be reconsidered now, on 
the question of violation of any particular principle or rule of law. As against 
Sri Varghcse’s claims for being called in for consideration at the time ot Exr. M 6 
promotion, it was pointed out by the Management that Sri Varghese is a welder 
and not a fitter and the trade of welder being different, he was not entitled to be 
considered as charge hand fitter. As regards the agreement in Ext. W39, MWl 
would swear that the management considered Sri Varghese’s claim most 
sympathetically on 1st January 1962 for promotion, but due to the delay in ex- 
pansion programme to raise to 50 tons production, there is no scope for additional 
-vacancy The reason for the delay is stated to be beyond the control of the 
management like foreign exchange, import of machinery etc. The management 
would also argue that It would not be conducive to the proper and smooth 
working of the welding section, if Sri Divakaran’s Promotion is to be interfered 
with after six years, now: which would create heart burning to Sri Divakaran. 
Nevertheless, accepting the equitable as well as the legal arguments of the 



344° mE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/AS VINA 1, 1889 [Part If 


management we are constrained to observe that the Management is in duty 
bound to adhere to the solemn promise made to the employee concerned under 
Ext. W39 and consider Sri Varghese’3 case most sympathetically by implementing- 
their undertaxing in some way or other, either by an immediate promotion by 
creating a vacancy or by making good his loss by increasing his total emolu- 
ments.” 

Sri C. C. Cherian: 

Now we will consider the case ot Sri C. C. Cherian Si, No. 9 in the list. He 
has examined himself as WW2 and has proved Ext. W3. He was not called in 
for consideration at the. time of Ext. M6 promotion of A grade fitters to charge 
hands. The management would say that he was not called in because he was 
a machinist and not a fitter, at the time of selection under Ext. M6. His com- 
plaint is that his juniors were promoted without giving him an opportunity for 
undergoing the tests. On his behalf, the union has put forward the following 
arguments. That he is a fitter is clear from Ext. W3 order appointing him, 
which clearly states that he is raised to grade I fitter with effect from 12th June 
1951. That is supported by Ext, W2 letter from the company to him offering 
him the post of fitter. In the face of Exts. W3 and W2 it is idle to content that 
he is not a fitter. But the management would say that he is doing the functions 
of a machinist along with two helpers. As against this, the union has rightly 
pointed out that there is no recognised cadre or post as machinist in the company. 
Nothing, in the form of records has been placed before us to show that there is 
such a post. Hence it is clear that he is a fitter, doing the duties of a machinist. 
It is further pointed out on his behalf by the union, that the faqt that he is asked 
to do another duty by the company without his consent or willingness, will not 
give right for the Management to avoid him when a promotion comes. Again 
there is no separate post of machinist charge hand and the same charge-hand 
supervises both fitters and machinist. It is therefore clear that he is a fitter 
and he also ought to have been given an opportunity for test and interview on 
5th November i963 along with the persons mentioned in Ext. M6. Nevertheless 
owing to the agreements in Exts. W19 and W20, it would be improper to set aside 
the promotions already made. We therefore recommend that Sri C. C. Cherian’s 
case also will be considered for promotion as early as possible. 

Lastly, we will consider the case of Sri P- Krishna Pillai, S- No- 10, in the list. 
According to the union to which he belongs, he is also a fitter, though he is doing 
the duties of a turner. His claims also ought to have been considered on 5th 
November 1963 along with the persons in Ext. M6. He was not called for inter- 
view at that time. According to the Union, the charge-hand post is common to 
both fitters and turners. But here it may be stated that Sri Krishna Pillai has 
not come forward to swear in support of his case nor has he produced any docu- 
ments in his favour. On the other hand MWl swears as follows: P. Krishna 
Pillai is a turner, The trade of a fitter is not like that of a turner. There is no 
post of a charge-hand in that trade, that is turner trade. When the management 
asserts that he is not a fitter but a turner, the burden of proof is on the union to 
prove that Sri Krishna Pillai is really a fitter, by producing his order of appoint- 
ment or order of promotion as in the case of Sri C. C. Cherian. In the written 
statement of the Management, they have stated that when a post of charge-hand: 
is created in that category of turner. Sri Krishna Pillai’s case will be considered. 
Sri Krishna Pillai having not established that he is a fitter, we think that we 
are constrained to hold that his claim is not proved. 

Promotion of six general labourers as B. Grade Fitters — 

The following persons in the list attached to the reference dispute this set of 
promotions. 


Name 


Serial No. in the list 


1. K, Arjunan 

22 

2. K. Sankaran 

24 

3, P. Madhavan 

20 

4. Sundarsanan, V. 

30 

5. Aliar Kunju 

31 


Sre. 5<ii 1 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEP I EMBER 23, 1957/ASVINA 1, 1SS£) 3441 


Of the above, the union did not press the claims of M/s. P. Madha\ an and 
Ahyar Kunju SI. No. 2S and 31 respectively. Hence, really the claims of the 
other three persons arise for consideration. These persons are general labourers, 
doing unskilled work m the various departments in the Factory. In January 
1964, there were four vacancies of B Grade fitters. A practical test was held on 
28th December 1963 and the selection list is Ext. M7 genuineness of which is not 
challenged by the unions. Ten senior most general labourers working in the 
Engineering section were called for a trade test (practical test). Out of these 
4 persons who got the highest marks were promoted on 3rd January 1964. 3 
more vacancies arose within six months of the test and hence no fresh test was 
conducted and the next three in the order of rank based on the total number of 
marks were promoted through the promotion committee. Those three were, M/s. 
T. George M. Sreenivasan and P. Thampikunju, No. 3, 10 and 4 respectively in 
Ext. M7. Out of these. Sreenivasan declined the promotion. Ext. M21 is the 
of bee order offering promotion to Sreenivasan and Ext. M22 is the office order 
informing Sri Sreenivasan that his promotion was cancelled, since he declined 
to accept the same. 

SH K ■ Arjunan: 

Sri Arjunan is No. 6 m Ext. M7. He secured only the lowest total number of 
marks (83) and failed in the practical test securing only 13 marks out of 50. 
Thus he was not promoted. He has given evidence as WW3 and has produced 
Ext. WS, office memo, dated 25th April 1963, granting him an additional incre- 
ment of Rs. 5 in appreciation of the good work done by him and Ext. W17 copy 
of a petition dated 6 th June 1966 presented by him to the Managing Director, 
indicating his complaint that his juniors were promoted. His complaint appears 
to be that even without holding any test, his juniors. M/s. T. Ramakrishnan 
Vamadevan. K. Vijayan and Chakrapani were promoted. MW1 has given evi- 
dence regarding this aspect. He would swear that general labourers are unskilled 
workmen, working in different department in the company and are interchange- 
able from department to department. The Trade Unions also have not objected 
to these transfers. They are transferred in the exegencies of the requirements 
:n the company and sometimes at their own request. Sri Arjunan had not 
requested for a transfer to any other department. When these general labourers 
are transferred, e.q. in the Rigger section or some other section, the workers get 
some training and when a promotion comes there, those trained men are usually 
preferred in that section. The allegation that some of these transfers are made 
to favour these employees, is demed MV/1 has explained how, some of the 
■juniors of Arjunan has been transferred to other sections and subsequently pro- 
moted In cross-examination nothing has been brought out for disbelieving MW1 
regardmg this aspect. Accepting his evidence we do not see anv improprietory. 
victimisation or unfair labour practice regardmg the promotions of the above said 
a ! 1 '■gc I luniors. It follows therefore that there is no substance in the above 
f id con, plaints of Sri Arjunan and his claims are therefore denied 

M'i. K Sankaran and V ■ Sudharsanan : 

Mr. K. Sankaran (SI No. 24) and Sri Sudhai-anan (SI. No. 30) h.<ve not come 
'orv/ard to swear regarding their claims. Sri K. Sankaran is an unskilled general 
labourer in the production department. The rigging section is not a part of the 
production department but is attached to the engineering department MW1 
swears the 1 Sankaran cannot therefore ask for a promotion as rigger in the 
rigging lection. Rigging is a job which calls for physical vigour, strain and 
n's^fei.’e. Only those general labourers who are used to the working m the 
Rigging section as helpers are generally found to be able to cooe with the difficult 
work of rigging. MWl also swears that it was because of that when a promotion 
arises m that section, workers with experience in that section alone are promoted 
after a test. 


In general, the promotions referred to in Ext. M 8 was also in a way attacked 
by some of the unions. Here it may be pointed out that the promotions referred 
to in Ext. M 8 , are not strictly subject matter before this Arbitration Board. The 
promotions as per M 8 , are promotion from B grade operators to A grade opera- 
tors. MWl swears that the criteria for M 8 promotion is given in Ext. W7, except 
the notes ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) under it, which notes came into operation only on 28th 
July. 1966 subseouent to the promotions under M 8 . Ext. M 8 , M10 and M10(A1 
are the copies of the original orders. In the circumstances, as explained by MWl. 
we do not see any substance in the contentions of Sri Sankaran & Sri Sudarsanan. 
So their claims are also only to be denied 



3442 I HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA 1 , 183!) [Pari II- 


M/s ■ T. Sukumaran Nair and R. V, George : 

Lastly we come to the complaints regarding the cases oi M/s, T. Sukumaran 
Nair and R. V. George No. 19 and No. 20 respectively in the list of persons 
attached to the order of reference- Sri Sukumaran Nair has been examined as 
WW7. Their complaint is chat they were denied promotions as plant controller. 
They were process supervisors and they should have been promoted to the post 
of plant controller. Sri Sukumaran Nair has sworn that a vacancy arose in the 
post of plant controller in 1965 and for which himself and R. V. George were also 
claimants. Ignoring their seniority and length of service, another junior hand, 
one Sri K. C- Filial who had a total service of two years only as process super- 
visor had been promoted as plant controller. Overlooking their claims Shri 
K. C. Pillai was given acting charge as plant controller on a few occasions and at 
that time, they hud protested. The copy of the grievance petition filed by him 
on 28th June 1964 is Ext. W10. According to him, promotion should have been 
based on experience and training only and tire general practice in the company 
had been to attach more importance to experience and training. On that crite- 
rion either Sukumaran Nair or R. V. George ought to have been preferred against 
Sri K. C. Pillai. This appears to be the gist of their complaint. According to 
the management, the post of a plant controller is managerial and responsible 
post and does not come under the purview of the standing orders or Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947. MW1 has sworn that the Management nas never taken any- 
body other than a science graduate as plant controller. According to him, this has 
always been the practice, ever since the company come into functioning. The 
plant controller is in over all control over the plant and production in the com- 
pany. That aspect is proved by Ext. M16, office order. The management has 
also produced Ext. M17. The Copy of the reply by the managing director to 
Sukumaran Nair, in reply to the W10 complaint, where in the claims of Sukumaran 
Nair has been refuted. In Ext. M17, it is further stated that the minimum qua- 
lifications required for the plant controller’s post is a graduation in science and 
considerable experience as process supervisor. In so far as the two supervisors 
referred to In Ext. M10, who has been permitted to work in casual vacancies 
of plant controllers, one is a B.Sc. having considerable long experience as super- 
visor and the other is a B.Sc. coupled with M.Sc., (tech.) JVTW1 swears that Sri 
T- Sukumaran Nair and Sri R- V- George did not possess the required qualifica- 
tions. Sri Sukumaran Nair is a failed intermediate in History, and Sri George 
has only an S.S.L.C. to his credit. Sri K. C. Pillai and Sri T. I. Cherian were 
promoted as plant controllers on 17th February, 1966. They were process super- 
visors prior to their promotion. Sri K. C- Pillai is a B.Sc., f Science) and M.Sc , 
(tech.) Sri T. I. Cherian is a graduate in science. These facts are sworn to by 
MW1- He further swears that the plant controller's post Is not governed by 
Ext- M13 or M14- The promoted persons had acted as plant controllers also before 
their promotions; while M/s. Sukumaran Nair and George had never even acted 
as plant controllers. Sukumaran Nair, himself admits in cross examination that 
there is no plant controller now in service who is not a graduate in science- lie 
also admits that he is not a graduate in science- He also admits that he is cnly 
an intermediate, passed in two parts and failed in subjects (history). For the 
foregoing reasons, we do not see any ground for interfering with the promotions 
given to Mr. K. C. Pillai and Mr, T. I. Cherian, as against M/s. Sukumaran Nair 
and R. V. George. Their claims are therefore denied. 

Before closing, we wish to ’add a few words regarding the latter part of the 
issue referred to us namely ‘‘if not to what relief are they entitled". Regarding 
reliefs; we have to bear in mind, the agreement of the parties in Ext. W19 and 
W20. In Ext. W19, under para 4(a) it has been agreed that if any persons were 
recommended for promotion, as a result of the review, they will be promoted 
in the next available vacancies in the cadre to which the promotion has been 
recommended. So also, in Ext. W20, under the head promotions in para 3(lii) 
it had been specifically agreed between the Management and the unions that 
“no person already promoted will be reverted as a result of para (i) above". 
Most of the promotions In this case were early in 1964 and three years are now 
over. Interference with those promotions will upset the industrial peace in the 
factory. It is also seen that the promotions were effected from among the exist- 
ing employees and no fresh hands were taken from outside. It is further seen 
that promotions were effected on the basis of some test or other, or on the basis 
of some criteria, though some of them might not have been notified earlier. 
Thus on equitable considerations also interference with the promotions effected 
would create dlssentions and heart burn among the employees and will upset 
the industrial peace. Hence, as regards the deserving and hard cases referred 
to above the management will look into their claims in the light of the observa- 
tions made above most sympathetically and without delay and will try to redress 
tneir grievances in whatever manner possible. We also wish to observe In 



Si c. 3(H)] THE CAZETTE OE INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, J9G7/ASVINA J, 1889 3.^3 


general that it would he better and healthy, in the interests of all concerned 
that the criteria for promotions are notified earlier in consultation with the 
unions, as far as possible, and also to bring to the notice of the persons concern- 
ed the adverse remaiks made in confidential records and got their explanations 
whenever necessary and thus giving them an opportunity to amend their ways 
and for improving themselves. It is also gratifying to note that subsequent to 
the promotions in question the management is declaring its policies and criteria 
definitely as is seen from documents like Ext, W9, Another redeeming and en- 
couraging feature noted in Ext. W42 which is clear from the following question 
can also be quoted with advantage regarding the cordial relations coming into 
existence between the unions and the management. 

“The unions agreed that it is essential to have a definite pattern to be followed 
for promotions, so that personal prejudices and predilictions of supervisory offi- 
cers 'would have little impact on the overall result. They however felt that 
the quantum of marks for the various factors may need some slight adjustments. 
The Managing Director welcomed the suggestions regarding the allocation of 
marks for various factors which would receive his earnest consideration. He also 
agreed to look into any specific cases of alleged injustice if pointed out to him”. 

T If the unions and the management would go ahead in the spirit expressed in 
the above paragraph much dissentions and discord could be avoided and indus- 
trial peace could be established within the factory. 

He take this opportunity to thank the Management and the Unions for their 
hearty cooperation with us and the efficient way in which they participated in 
the proceedings. 

We pass this award accordingly, subject to the observations made above. 
The award will come into effect within 30 days of the publication of the Award 
in the Gazette. 

c. Dated this the 2 6th day of July 1967. 

1. Sri C. M. Mathew, 

Chairman. 


2. Sri. A. Karunakaran, 

(Member) 

3. Sri K. Janardhanan Pillai, 

(Member) 


4. Mr. J. B, Soutak, 

(Member) 

5. Sri P. Balachandra Menon, 

(Member) 

6. Prakulam Bhasi, 

(Member) 


7. Sri C. M. Stephen, 
(Member) 


Note of Dissent 


While I agree with the observations and findings in the award regarding pro- 
motions and while I fully share the views of the Chairman and other Honourable 
Members regarding absenteeism, I would suggest that Shri A. Venkitachalam 
and Sri R. Balkrishna Pillai who are office bearers of recognised unions be 
treated differently because their absence from -work has been also due to their 
union activities. There are industries and Government concerns which allow full 
leave of absence for the employees who are office bearers of recognised Unions, 
In case of promotions such leave of absence is never considered a bar and I sug- 
gest that such healthy procedure be followed in the Titanium Products Ltd-, also 
so that industrial peace can be better secured. 

Sd/- P. Balachandra Menon. 

I agree with Shri Balachandra Menon’s views. 

(Sd.) Illegible. 

I agree with the above note of dissent. 

(Sd.) Illegible. 


List of Appendices 


I. Documents ■marked, on the side of the management 


Ml. — Criteria for promotion, 

Ml, (a) — Selection list of chargehand. 

M2. — Circular No. 18/64, dated 28th December 1964 of the Travancore 
Titanium Products Limited. Trivandrum. 



3444 ™ E GA7ETTE OF INI,IA : SEPTEMBER 23, 19G7/ASVINA 1, 1883 [Paid It- 


M3. — Selection of Assistant Supervisors from chargehand fitters, dated 31st 
December, 1963. 

M4. — Selection of the post of the post of chargehand Electricians from A 
Grade Electricians, dated 5th June, 1964. 

M5. — Statement of A Grade fitters their appointment and the date on which 
they were promoted to A Grade. 

M6.— Selection of charge hands from A Grade fitters, Practical Test on 51 h 
November, 1963. 

M7. — Selection of B Grade Fitters Practical Teat on 26th December, 1963. 

M8. — Order No. PWO(81), dated July 1, 1966 of the Manager of the Tita- 
nium Products Limited. 

M9. — Order No. MD.43/66, dated 28th July 1966 of the Managing Director 
of the Travancore Titanium Products. 

M10. — Order No. MD.47/66, dated August 12, 1966 of the Managing Director. 

M10(a). — Appendix III Criteria for promotion. 

Mil. — Statement regarding absenteeism. 

M12.— Workmen’s Record of Sri C. C. Varghese. 

M13. — Copy of the certified Standing Orders for the workmen. 

M14. — Copy of the certified Standing Orders for staff. 

M15. — Statement showing the number of days on which the 26A Grade 
operation absented themselves on loss of pay in 1962 and 1963. 

M16. — True copy of the office order issued by the Managing Director, dated 
6th May, 1965. 

M17. — True copy of the reply, dated 13th August, 1964 given by the manage- 
ment to the grievance petition filed by Sri Sukumaran Nair. 

M18 — The Statement showing the absence on loss of pay in 1964 to 1966 
of A. Venkitachalam and 7 other process operators. 

Copy of Order dated 20th March, I960. 

M19. — Granting special allowance to Sri N. Kuttan Pillal- 

M20.— Copy of the implementation of agreement dated 12th October, 1961. 

M20(a). — Memorandum of settlement, dated 12th October 1961 — Imple- 
mentation report. 

M20(b).— Minutes of the discussion on 1st March, 1962. 

M21. — Copy of promotion order dated 25th May, 1964 given to Sri 
Srinivasan. 

M22. — Communication addressed to Srinivasan when he declined to accept 
promotion. 


II. Documents marked on the side of the workers 

pVl. Order No. Est. 2/65, dated 17th June 1965 regarding promotion in 

Lower categories of employees. 

W2.— Letter No. TAM/SRS/8395, dated 29th November 1949 of the Secretary, 
Travancore Titanium Products Ltd., to Sri C. C. Cheriyan. 

W3.— Inter Office Memo., dated 12th June 1951 from the Managing Director 
to Mr. C. C. Cheriyan. 

■^4— Form of Employees Report of the Travancore Titanium Products 
Ltd., Trivandrum. 

rff 5 Memorandum of settlement, dated 5th August 1961 between the 

management of Travancore Titanium Products Ltd., Trivandrum and 
the Titanium Products Labour Union. 

W6— Letter dated 12th October 1961 from the Managing Director to four 
employees, viz. N. Krishnan Nair N. Surendranathan Nair. N. 
Slvasankara Pillal and A. Venkitachalam, 

W7.— Criteria adopted for promotion from 'B' Grade to ‘A’ Grade operators. 

■W8, B Grade to A grade operators. Date of sanction of posts, 29ih 

November, 1965. 

W9.— Order No. MD. 40/66, dated July 10, 1966 of the Managing Director. 



Sec, 3(u)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, I967/ASVINA 1, 1839 3445 


WlO.— Copy of Grievance petition dated 28th June 1864 from T. Sukumaran 
Nalr, Process Supervisor. 

Wll. — Letter, dated 25th October 1966, by Management to Thankappan Nair 
(vide annexure to Titanium Products Labour Union), 

W12. — Report by Parliamentary Committee para, 77, 

W13, — Copy of petition, dated 7th February 1966 from C. C. Varghese, Work 
No. 208. 

W14. — -Copy of petition, dated 14th February 1961 from C. C. Varghese. 

- W15.— Copy of petition, dated 21st May, 1961 from C. C. Varghese. 

WIG, — Copy of certificate of good work issued to K. Arjunan work No. 76. 

W17. — Copy of petition, dated 6th June, 1961 from K. Arjunan. 

W18. — Copy of letter No. TFL4/D-8/83-64 from the General Secretary to 
the Managing Director. 

W19. — Copy of Memorandum of settlement, dated 5th November 1964. 

W20. — Copy of Memorandum of settlement, dated 22nd October 1065. 

W21. — Copy of letter, dated 14th February 1966 from the General Secre- 
tary to the Managing Director, 

W22. — Copy of summary of discussions held 8th October 1966. 

W23. — Copy of Memorandum of settlement, dated 4th March 1965. 

W24. — Copy of letter, dated 31st March I960 from the Chief Administrative 
Officer, to the General Secretary, Titanium Products Labour Union. 

W25. — Copy of letter, dated 31st May 1960 from the Chief Administrative 
Officer to the General Secretary. 

W26. — Copy of letter, dated 17th January 1961 from the Managing Director 
to the General Secretary. 

W27. — Copy of letter dated 30th May 1961 from the General Secretary to 
' the Managing Director, 

W28,— Copy of letter, dated 26th June 1961 from the Secretary to the 
General Secretary of the Titanium Products Labour Union. 

W29.— Copy of letter, dated 28th June 1061 from the Secretary to the 
General Secretary, Titanium Products Labour Union. 

W30.— Copy of letter dated July 4, 1961 from the Secretary to the General 
Secretary, Titanium Products Labour Union. 

W3L— Copy of letter, dated 3rd April 1964, 

W32.— Copy of letter, dated 26th May 1964. 

W33. — Copy of Inter offl.ee Memo., dated 17th May 1965. 

W34. — Copy of memorandum of settlement, dated 25th March 1966. 

W35— Copy of letter, dated 31st December 1965 from the Personal Cum 
Welfare Officer, to the General Secretary, Titanium Products Labour 
Union, > 

W35(a). — Copy of order, dated 30th December 1965. 

W36.-— Copy of amendment of Acting Allowance Rules, dated 14th January 
1966, 

W37. — -Copy of order, dated 15th July, 1966. 

W38.— Copy of letter, dated 14th February 1961 from the Titanium Workers 
Union to the Managing Director. 

W39.— Copy of Memorandum of settlement, dated 12th October 1961. 

W40— Copy of certificate of Proficiency, dated 10th June 1947. 

W41.— Copy of petition, dated 25th March 1960 from C. C. Varghese. 

W42. — Copy of Minutes, dated 11th March 1S64. 

W43.— Copy of letter, dated IGth March 1964 from the General Secretary 
to the Managing Director. 

W44,— Copy of letter, dated 24th March 1964 from the General Secretary, 
Titanium Workers Union to the Managing Director. 

W45. — Copy of letter, dated 18th March 1964. 

W46, — Copy of letter, dated 12th July 1963. 



; 344 6 Tllb; gazette of India: September 23, i%7/ \svina i, issn [Pmu ji- 


W47. — Copy of Instructions for preparations and Maintenance of Confi- 
dential Reports on Government Servants. 

W48— Amendment to the Certified standing orders No. M. 240/(4)/65, 
dated 15th June 1966. 

W48 fa). —Extract from the Conciliation Report No. C. 25(81/64, dated 2nd 
May 1964. 

W49.— Extract from the Minutes and modifications made by the Regional 
Labour Corpmissioner (C) Madras on the standing orders for staff 
and workmen of Travancore Titanium Products Ltd., Trivandrum. 

W50. — Extract from the award of the Industrial Tribunal, Trivandrum in 
Industrial Disputes No. 20/1961. 

W51, — Extract from the D.O. letter of the Regional Labour Commissioner 
to the Secretary, Travancore Titanium Products Limited and to the 
General Secretaries of the Three Unions functioning in Travancore 
Titanium Products Ltd., concerning amendments to Ihe Promotion 
clauses in the standing orders. 

III. Witness ex apnined on the side of the Management 
MW1. — J. K. Mani, Personal-Curn-Welfare Officer. 

IV. Witness examined on the side of the Unions 
WW1. — Jawahar, Process Operator. 

WW2. — C. C. Cheriyan. 

WW3,— P. S. Sankaran Nair, Process Supervisor, 

WW4.- — K. Koshy, Plant Controller. 

WW5. — P. Ananthanarayanan, Plant Manager. 

WW6. — N. Sthanunath, Production Manager. 

WW7. — T. Sukumaran Nail', Process Supervisor. 

WW8.-C. C. Varghese. 

WW9.-K, Arjunan. 

WW10. — N. R. Nair, Secretary. 

WW11. — R. Balakrishna Pillai, Process Operator, 

[No. 24/58/66-LRI.] 

New Delhi, the 14 th September 1967 

S.O. 3336. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
-of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Delhi, in the industrial dispute between the employers tn 
relation to the Punjab Cooperative Bank Limited, Amritsar and their workmen 
which was received by the Central Government on the 7th September, 1967. 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, DELHI 

, Present: 

Shri Anand Narain Kaul, Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Delhi. 

29th June, 1967 
Rfeekence I.D. No. 6 or 1966 
Between 

The employers in relation to the Punjab Cooperative Bank Limited, Hall 
Bazar, Amritsar, 

AND 

Their workmen as represented by the All India Bank Employee/ Associa- 
tion, 780-Ballimaran, Chandni Chowk, Delhi, 

Shri Sudesh Verma for the management . 

Sarvashri Durga Das and H. L. Parwana for the workmen. 

AWARD 

By S.O,, dated the 27th April, 1966, the Central Government has referred to 
this Tribunal for adjudication an industrial dispute existing between the employers 
in relation to the Punjab Cooperative Bank Limited, Hall Bazar, Amritsar (to be 
rreferred to hereinafter as the Bank) and their workmen as represented by the 



Sec, 3(i<>] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA 1 , 1889 3447 - 


All India Batik Employees’ Association, 780-Balllmaran, Chandnl Chowk, Delhi 
(to be referred to hereinafter as the Association), The following are the terms 
of reference:— 

"1. What should be the quantum of bonus payable to the employees of the 
Punjab Cooperative Bank Limited, Amritsar, for the year 19C4? 

2, Whether, out of the bonus payable under item 1 above, the management 
are justified in making any deductions on account of bonus paid for 
the year 1962, in accordance with the Award of the Industrial Tribu- 
nal, Chandigarh, dated the 16th March, 1966 and published with the 
Notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of 
Labour and Employment No. S.O. 978, dated the 22nd March, 1965. 
If so, to what extent.’’ 

2, Both the aforesaid parties have submitted to me their respective written 
statements and rejoinders. They have also filed their respective calculation 
charts. It was agreed between the parties that the issues will be the same as 
the terms of reference. 

3. Briefly stated the case of the Association, as set out in its written statement, 
is that the Bank announced its profits for the year 1962 hut did not pay any 
bonus to its employees as was required under the provisions of the Desai Bonus 
Award. The matter went to the Industrial Tribunal, Chandigarh for adjudication 
which gave its award on tho 16th March, 1965, directing the Bank to pay bonus 
to the employees for the year 1962 at the rate of one month's basic pay and 
accordingly the Bank implemented the award of the Chandigarh Tribunal and 
made the payment to the employees at the rate of one month’s basic pay in 
April, 1965. Again tor the year 1961, the Bank announced its profits but did 
not pay any bonus to its employees as was required under the provisions of 
the Desai B'onus Award. This action of the Bunk, according to the Association, 
is not justified, inasmuch as the payment of Bonus Act, 1965, provides that even 
if the concern does not show profits in any particular year and shows loss, it 
must pay bonus equivalent to 4 per cent of the total wage earned by an employee 
in the specific year for which the bonus is claimed. It is further alleged that 
the Bunk offered to the employees the payment of bonus at reduced quantum 
for the year 1964 on the ground that in terms of the provisions of the Payment 
of Bonus Act, 1965, the employees were entitled to only 4 per cent. According 
to the Association, the Bank did not actually make the payment and contended 
that as bonus for the year 1962 was paid at a higher rate under the Award, so 
the bonus for the year 1964 at 4 per cent under the Payment of Bonus Act 
stands adjusted against payment of bonus for the year 1962, It is further alleg- 
ed that the bonus dispute for the year 11,62 was actually not pending prior to ■ 
the payment of Bonus Ordinance and moreover the provisions of Section 39 of 
the Payment of Bonus Act make it quite clear that the very provisions of the 
said Act shall be in addition to and not in derogation to any corresppnding law 
relating to investigation and settlement of tho bonus dispute. According to the 
Association, therefore, the action of the Bank in deducting and/or reducing the 
minimum bonus payable for the year 1964 at the rate of 4 per cent of the wages 
earned by the employees for the said year in terms of the provisions of Sec- 
tion 10 of the Payment of Bonus Act, 19*65, is unjustified and illegal. 

4, The Bank in its written statement has taken some preliminary objections 
which are to the effect that the union filed a plaint in the Labour Court, Jullundur 
on the matter in dispute on the 28th December, 1965, which was subsequently 
withdrawn by the union that, although technically no decision on merits was 
formally given by the Court but the Court after hearing the interested parties 
considered the union's case as not tenable and allowed it to be withdrawn. Ac- 
cording to the Bank, the Labour Court, Jullundur, was competent to decide the 
matter and the withdrawal under these circumstances must be considered as 
amounting to acceptance of the contentions raised in its written statement and 
therefore the matter should be treated as finally closed The Bank has invoked 
the principles of resjudicata in support of its stand that the matter cannot be 
agitated again. 

5. On the merits the case of the Bank is that the bonus dispute in respect of 
the year, 1962, was referred by the Government on the 21st July, 1964, to the 
Chandigarh Tribunal, which gave its award on tho 16th March, 1965 and there- 
fore, the dispute was pending on the 1st December, 1964. The Bank has pleaded 



3448 1H E GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA 1 , 1889 [Paso II- 


that for such disputes which were pending on 1st September, 1964, Section 33 of 
the Payment of Bonus Ordinance makes the following provisions: 

“Section 33: Where immediately before the 2nd September. 1964, any indus- 
trial dispute regarding payment of bonus relating to any account- 
ing year ending on any day in the year, 1962, and any subsequent 
accountmg year w r as pending before the appropriate Government or 
before any Tribunal or other authority constituted under the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947, or under any corresponding law relating to 
investigation and settlement of industrial disputes in a State, such 
dispute shall be decided in accordance with the provisions of this 
Ordinance." 

Section 34 of the said Ordinance makes the provisions of ^he Ordinance to over- 
ride the terms of any award, agreement etc. made before the commencement 
of the Ordinance. The Bank, therefore, contends that the award given by the 
Chandigarh Tribunal on the 16th March, 1965, became void and over-ridden and 
the bonus for the year 1962 had to be re-deterrnmed in accordance with the said 
Ordinance and the payment already made on the basis of the Chandigarh Tribu- 
nal’s award becomes adjustable on re-calculatton. It is, pleaded that the Bank 
management re-calculatcd the bonus payable for 1962 and lt.64 under the said 
Ordinance and after deducting what had already been paid under he "over- 
ridden" award, tendered the remaining sum payable to workmen in August, 
1965, which was, however, not accepted by the workmen and is lying at their 
disposal. The management, therefore, contends that the claim of the workmen 
be dismissed with costs. 

6. According to the rejoinder filed on behalf of the Association, the preliminary 
objections raised by the Bank in its written statement are unfounded and base- 
less inasmuch as the Labour Court did not decide the issue under reference as 
admitted by the Bank itself and the question of 'res judicata' does* not arise- 
According to the Association, the application was withdrawn due to some techni- 
cal defects and permission to file fresh application was sought from the Labour 
Court, which allowed the petitioners to withdraw the application with liberty 
to file fresh application. This Tribunal has, therefore, full powers to adjudicate 
upon the dispute. 

7. On the merits of the case, it is stated that the Bank is bound to pay mini- 
mum 4 per cent of the total wages earned by the employees for the year 1964 
towards bonus having regard to the provisions of Section 10 of the Payment ol 
Bonus Act. Every year for the purpose of bonus, according to the Association, 
is a distinct year and no adjustments can be made by an employer against bonus 
on any account. The amount of bonus due for a particular year must he paid by 
an employer. It has further relied upon the Provisions of the Desai Award on 
Bonus for the banking industry having regard to Section 39 of the Payment of 
Bonus Act according to which the provisions of the said Act shall be in addi- 
tion and not in derogation of the Industrial Disputes Act or any corresponding 
law relating to investigation and settlement of the industrial disputes and has 
attempted to show that according to the calculations under the Desai Bonus 
Award, the bonus due to the employees for the year 1964 comes to Rs, 35,529. 
According to the Association, the management has failed to establish that there 
was any pendency of the bonus dispute for the year 1962 prior to 29th May, 
1965 and in fact the bonus dispute for the year 1962 was no more pending prior 
to the payment of Bonus Ordinance. The award given by the Chandigarh Tribu- 
nal on the 16t.h March, 1965, has ulready been implemented by the management 
and if the management had any grievance against the said award, it should have 
approached the proper legal authorities to get the award set aside, and in the 
presence of the binding character of the award, this Tribunal cannot Interfere 
with the award of the Chandigarh Tribunal, since it cannot sit as an appellate 
court over the award of that Tribunal. The plea taken up by the management 
that it has not paid any dividend for the last six years under directions from 
the Reserve Bank of India has nothing to do with the payment of bonus for the 
year 1964, According to the Association, it is wrong on the part of the manage- 
ment to suggest that the Desai Bonus Award has become a dead letter and Sec- 
tion 39 of the payment of Bonus Act, according to the Association, is a short 
answer to the plea. 

8. After hearing the parties on the points raised by them in their pleadings 
or at the hearing I recorded my tentative conclusions on the 6th January, 1967, 
which are as follows: — 

“(1) It seems to me that in the face of the provisions of Section 34 of the 
Payment of Bonus Ordinance, 1965, the directions if any given 


Sec. 3(ii)] l'HE' GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA 1, 1889 3449 - 


regardlng bonus in what is known as the Desai Award are no longer 
applicable and the provisions of the Ordinance or of the Payment 
of Bonus Act, 1965, have the effect of superseding of such directions 
contained in any previous award m so far as they are inconsistent 
with the provisions of the Ordinance or of the Act. 


(2) Section 39 of the Ordinance has not the effect of saving the provisions 
of the Desai Award since it is only an award and not “a law relating 
to investigation and settlement of Industrial disputes in force in a 
State.” The provisions of the Desai Award, cannot therefore, be 
invoked in the present dispute. 


(3) The award of the learned Chandigarh Tribunal was passed in March, 
1965, prior to the promulgation of the Payment of Bonus Ordinance, 
1965. The award was not appealed against and has in fact been 
implemented. I do not think such an award, which was not subsist- 
ing on the date of the promulgation of the Ordinance could be re- 
opened. The provisions of the Ordinance arc not retrospective in 
operation. The provisions of Section 33 of the Ordinance only mean 
that if any dispute regarding Payment of Bonus relating to any 
accounting year ending on any day in the year 1962 was pending 
before any Tribunal or other authority, such a dispute shall he 
decided in accordance with the provisions of the Qrdinanqe. It 
may be that the dispute regarding bonus for 1962 was pending before 
the 2nd September, 1964, with the Industrial Tribunal, Chandigarh 
but that dispute had been finally disposed of and the award imple- 
mented before the Ordinance came into force. The provisions of 
Section 33 of the Ordinance even read with Section 34(1) cannot 
have the effect of nullifying any award already passed by a compet- 
ent authority. An award which has been implemented and is not 
subsisting is not covered by the provisions of S. 34(1). In any case 
it is not for the respondent Bank to decide such a question and it 
was only an authority before which such a dispute was pending or 
before which such a dispute is taken that could have been compet- 
ent to decide it. The present dispute cannot be decided on the basis 
of the provisions of the Ordinance which stand repealed. 


(4) It is not for this Tribunal to sit in judgment over the decision of the 
Chandigarh Tribunal or re-open that award. 


(5) The Ordinance was superseded by the Act and subsequently the cor- 
responding provisions of even Section 33 and of Section 34(2) of the 
Act have been declared void by the Supreme Court. It is doubtful 
if these provisions can now be invoked.” 


9. In the light of these conclusions, the calculation charts filed by the Associa- 
tion based on the provisions of the Desai Award became infructuous and the 
union was directed to file, with advance copy to the management a fresh calcula- 
tion chart based on the provisions of the Payment of Bonus Act, 1985, showing 
the available surplus, if any, if the Association claims the benefit of the provi- 
sions of Section 11 of the Act. The management was directed to file its counter 
■chart, if any, or its comments on the fresh chart. While the Association filed 
the bonus calculation chart on the date fixed for the purpose, the management 
failed to file the same and took repeated adjournments and it was only on the 
imposition of costs that the calculation chart was filed by the management and 
the case was then fixed for further proceedings. 


10. I have again heard the learned representatives of the parties namely 
Sarvashri Durga Das and H. L. Parwana on behalf of the workmen and Shri 



3450 THE CAZET'lE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ AS VINA 1 , 1889 [Part 1 I-- 


Sudesh Verma on behalf of the management. In the light of the tentative conclu- 
sions recorded on 0th January, 1967, the workmen now claim only 4 per cent 
as bonus in terms of Section 10 of the Payment of Bonus Act and Shri Parwana 
has declared that he does not claim the benefit of Section 11. Therefore the 
claim is confined to 4 per cent of the wages earned by each employee during the 
accounting year or Rs. 40 whichever is higher. The term ‘wages’ has been defin- 
ed in Section 2(211 of the Act itself and it includes Dearness Allowance. Shrl 
Sudesh Verma in reply to Shri Parwana had nothing to say against a claim based 
on Section 10 of the Act except the plea already taken in regard to adjustment 
against the payments made for the year 1902. This plea has been already rejected 
in my tentative conclusions. These tentative conclusions are affirmed and an 
award is passed accordingly that bonus for the accounting year, 1964, shall be 
paid to each' employee in accordance with the provisions of Section 10 of the 
Act. This disposes of term No. 1 of the reference. There shall be no deductions 
out of the bonus payable as above, on account of any bonus paid for the year 
1962 under the award of the Industrial Tribunal, Chandigarh. This disposes of 
term No. 2 of the reference. I make an award accordingly and direct that it 
will be implemented within 6 weeks of the publication of the award in the Official' 
Gazette. 

(Nine pages), 

29th June, 1907. 

(Sd-) Anand Narain Kaul, 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Delhi. 

[No. F. 51/49/65-LRIV.j 


New Delhi, the 15th September 1967 


S..O. 3357. — -In exercise of the powers conferred by section 39 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby directs that the 
powers exercisable by it under sub-section (1) of section 34 of the said Act, shall, 
in respect of the offences punishable under Chapter VI of that Act, be exercis- 
able also by all the Deputy Chief Labour Commissioners (Central) and all the 
Regional Labour Commissioners (Central). 


[No. P. 1/78/67-LRI.j 


S.O. 3358.— Whereas the Central Government being satisfied thal the public 
Interest so required had declared by a Notification made in pursuance of the 
provisions of the proviso to sub-clause (vi) of clause (n) of section 2 of the In- 
dustrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), (being the Notification of the Govern- 
ment of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Depart- 
ment of Labour and Employment) No. S.O, 957, dated the 15th March 1967 the 
zinc mining industry, to be a public utility service for the purposes of the said; 
Act for a period of six months from the 25th March, 1967; 


And whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that public interest 
requires the extension of the said period by a further period of six months; 


Now therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub-- 
clause (vi) of clause (n) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947) the Central Government hereby declares the said industry to be a pubUc 
utility service for the purposes of the said Act for a further period of six months- 
from the 25th September, 1967. 


[No. F. 1/83/67-LRI.l) 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA 1, 1889 - , 


New Delhi, the 1 6th September 1067 

S.O. 3359. — Whereas the Central Government being satisfied that the public 
interest so required had declared by a notification made in pursuance of the 
provisions of the proviso to sub-clause (vi) of clause '(n) of section 2 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), [(being the notification of the Govern- 
ment of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (De- 
partment of Labour and Employment) No. S.O. 268, dated the 15th March 1967)], 
the lead mining industry, to be a public utility service for the purposes of the 
said Act for a period of six months from the 25th March, 1967; 

And whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that public interest 
requires the extension of the said period by a further period of six months; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub- 
clause (vi) of clause (n) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby declares the said industry to be a 
public utility service for the purposes of the said Act for a further period of six 
months from the 25th September 1967. 

[No. F. 1/83/67-LRL] 


ORDERS 


New Delhi, the 13 th September 1967 

S.O- 3360 — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an Industrial 
dispute exists between the employers In relation to the Punjab National Bank 
Limited Calcutta and their workmen In respect of the matter specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus- 
trial Tribunal, Calcutta constituted under section 7A of ths said Act 

Schedule 


Whether the action of the management of the Punjab National Bank Limited 
Calcutta, in requiring Shri Harihar Singh, Godown Chowkidar, to retire from 
service with effect from the 1st July 1967, was justified? If not, to what relief Is 
the workman entitled? 

TNo- 51/49/67-LRIII-II 

S.O. 3361. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers In relation to the British India Steam 
Navigation Company Limited, Calcutta and their workmen in respect of the 
matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said' dispute for adjudication to the Indus- 
trial Tribunal, Calcutta, constituted under section 7A of the said Act- 


Schedule 

(1) Whether the watchmen of Messrs British India Steam Navigation Company 
Limited, Calcutta are entitled to get the Interim relief and dearness allowance as 
recommended by the Central Wage Board for Port and Dock Workers? If so, from 
what date? 


(2) Whether the demand of the watchmen of Messrs British India Steam Navi- 
gation Company Limited, Calcutta for grant of festival holidays which are allow- 
ed to other permanent employees is justified? If so, to what relief are they 
entitled? 


(3) Whether the demand of the watchmen of Messrs British India Steam Navi- 
gation Company Limited, Calcutta for leave travel concession is justified? If 
so, to what relief are they entitled? ^ 28/fll/07 . LRnI . 1 , 




3452 the gazette of India : September 23 , 1967/asvina i, issa [Past ii- 


New Delhi, the 14 th September 1967 

S.O. 3362,— Whereas an industrial dispute exists between the employers in 
relation to Messrs Darabshaw B. Cursetjee’s Sons, Bombay and their workmen 
represented by the Transport and Dock Workers’ Union, Bombay; 

And, whereas the said employers and workmen have under sub-section (1) 
of section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 or 1947), agreed to refer 
the said dispute to arbitration by a written agreement and have forwarded to 
the Central Government under sub-section (3) of the said Act, a copy of the 
said arbitration agreement; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of sub-section (3) of section 10A of the said Act, 
the Central Government hereby publishes the said arbitration agreement which 
was received by it on the 4th September, 1967. 


(AGREEMENT) 

(Under section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947) 

Between 


Name of Parties: 

Representing employers — M/s. Darabshaw B. Cursetjee’s Sons. 

Representing workmen^-' The Transport & Dock Workers’ Union, Bombay. 

It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following industrial dis- 
pute to the arbitration of Shri Salim M. Merchant, at present Presiding Officer, 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, City Ice Building, Bazargate, Bombay-1. 


(i) Specific matter in dispute is as follows: — 

"Whether the claim of the Dock clerks of M/s. Darabshaw B. Cursetjee’s 
Sons, for Acting Allowance is justified in respect of all import 
vessels handled by the Company and where the Company has not 
employed Assistant Supervisors. If so, from what date the arrears 
of Acting Allowance should be paid?" 

(ii) Details Of the party to the dispute including the name and address of 
the establishment or undertaking involved. 

M/s. Darabshaw B. Cursetjee’s Sons, Darabshaw House, Ballard Estate, 
Bombay-1. 

(iii) Name of the Union, if any, representing the workmen in question. 

The Transport & Dock Workers’ Union, Bombay. 

(iv) Total number of workmen employed in the undertaking affected — 26. 

(v) Estimated number of workmen affected or likely to be affected by the 

dispute — 26. 

We further agree that the majority decision of the arbitrator shall be binding 
on us. 

The arbitrator shall make his award within a period of six months or within 
such further time as is extended by mutual agreement between us in writing, In 
case the award is not made within the period aforementioned, the reference to 
arbitration shall stand automatically cancelled and we shall be free to negotiate 
for fresh arbitration. 



*40.3(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASV1XA l, 1 1-'-' 3453 


I, Salim M. Merchant, hereby consent to act as Sole Arbitrator in this matter. 

Sd/ Salim M, Merchant, 

Bombay, 29-8-67, 

Signature of the Parties, 

For Darabahaw B. Cursetjee’a Sons, 

v 1 

Sd/- Illigihle, 

Partner. 

Representing employer, 

Sd/- Illigible. 

Secretary, Transport & Dock Workers 
Union, Bombay. 
Representing workers. 

Sd/- Illigible. 

President, Transport & Dock Workers 
Union, Bombay. 

[No. 28/92/67/LRin.] 

New Delhi, the 16th September 1967 

S-O- 3363. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an Industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Andhari Mica Mine of 
Messrs Chatturam Horilram (Private) Limited, Jumritelalya and their workmen 
in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1047 (14 of 1047), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said disputes for adjudication to the addi- 
tional Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the said 
Act. 


Witnesses: 

<1) Sd/- Illigible. 
(2) Sd/- Illigible. 


Schedule 

(1) Whether the management of Messr s Chatturam Horilram (Private) 
Limited, Post Office, Jumritelaiya, was justified in terminating the services of the 
following workers of the Andhari Mica Mines at Jorasimar7 

(1) Manger Singh (2) Lalu Singh (3) Ganesh Singh (4) Nando Singh 
(5) Bandhan Singh (6) Anup Singh (7) Jagadish Singh (8) Sarju 
Singh (0) Kedar Singh (10) Parvat Singh (11) Darwka Singh (12) 
Gopal Singh (13) Narayan Singh (14) Parvat Singh No, 2 (16) 
Jamuna Singh (16) Bandhu Singh (17) Jublal Singh (18) Laldhari 
Singh (19) Kailu Singh (20) Narayan Singh No. 2. 

(2) If not, to what relief are the said workmen entitled? 

[No. 20/6/67-LR.L] 

S.O. 3364. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Central Bank of India 
Limited, Agra and their workmen in respect of the matter specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
(d) of sub-secton (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of 
which Shri Mithan Lai shall be the Presiding Officer, with headquarters al 
Allahabad and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Tribunal. 

Schedule 

Whether the action of the management of the Central Bank of India Limited, 
Belangani, Agra in terminating, with effect from the 1st June, 1967, the services 
of Shri K. D. Kaushik. Clerk-cum-tvpist at Etawah Branch of the Bank, was 
justified? If not, to what relief is the workman entitled? 


[No. 51/44/ 67/LRIII.] 



3454 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; SEPTEMBER ZS, 1967 /ASVINA 1 , 1889 [Part II- 


S.O. 3365.— Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Central Bank of India 
Limited, Lucknow and their workmen in respect of the matter specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the 
said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
(d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of 
which Shri Mithan Lai shall be the Presiding Officer, with headquarters at 
Allahabad and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Tribunal. 

Schedule 

Whether the action of the management of the Central Bank of India Limited, 
Lucknow in refusing to allow Shri Ran Bahadur Singh, peon in their branch 
at Gorakhpur to officiate as Jamadar from May 1967, is justified? If not to 
what relief is he entitled? 


[No. B 1 / 40 / 67 /LRIII.] 


S.O. 3366. — Whereas the Central Governmen* is of opinion that an industri"il dispute exists 
between the employers in relation to the Polipathar Clay Mine of Perfect Porterv Contrary Ltd. 
Jabalpur and their workmen in respect o c the matter specified in the Schedule hereto cruexed, 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desiiable to refer the said d'spute for 
adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred ly clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 cf 1947), the Central Government h,rebv refers the t aid 
dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur constituted under section 0 th 
said Act. e 


Schedule 

“Whether the employers in relation to the Polipathar Clay Mine of Perfect Pottery Ccmpany 
Limited, Jabalpur (Madhya Pradesh) were justified in closing the said mine and re- 
trenching the following 81 workers with effect from the 1st July, 1967. 

If not, to what relief are the workmen entitled ? 


SI. Name Father’s Name Ticket No 

No. 


1 Shri Ram Prasad 

2 Shri Hiralal 

3 Shri Baredi , 

4 Shri Pardeshi 

5 Shri Mannu . 

6 Shri Mohan . 

7 Shri Fatte 

8 Shri Ramesh 

9 Shri Jageshwar 

10 Shri Kodu 

11 Shri Indrabhan 
iz Shri Mangal 

13 Shri Bhura 

14 Shri Rampati 

15 Shri Kunware 

16 Shri Samna 

17 Shri Moti Lai 

18 Shri Houla bux 

19 Shri Samna 

20 Shri Mithai Lai 


Mansaram 
Kamla Prasad 
Padka . 
Bhulai . 
Mohan . 
Sodhu . 
Chhidami 
Pam Rafan 
Ramadhar 
Mool Chand 
Ramdeo 
Gajai 
Sukhdeo 
Deo Sharan 
Jugga . 
Sukhdeo 
Ram Kumar 
Sheikh Md. 
Birbal 
Lalloo . 


878 
788 
55 1 
7fo 

871 

8to 

89 

888 

900 

876 

910 

963 

754 

797 

814 

815 
867 
700 
752 
757 



Sec. *(U)} TftE'teAZEliTE ofr INDIA: SEPTEMBER 2S. 19W/ASVINA 1. 18*9 3455 


SI. 

Name 


Father’j Name 

Ticket No. 

No. 






21 Shri Shyam 

22 Shri Kandhilal 

23 Shri Budai 

24 Shri Achchhe Lai 
23 Shri Sheopal . 

26 Shri Ayodhya Prasad 

27 Shri Dwarka . 

28 Shri Surajbhan 

29 Shri Jodha 

30 Shri Ramdulare 
3 r Shri Charan Lai 

32 Shri Chhotclal 

33 Sh* Bakhat Singh , 

34 Shri Bharosa . 

35 Shri Ghurai . 

36 Shri Kashi 

37 Shri Hanuman 

38 Shrijagaldeo 

39 Shri Baijnath . 

40 Shri Mahesh . 

41 Shr i Sukhdeo 

42 Shri Bishesar . 

43 Shri Sonelal . 

44 Shri Paramlal 

45 Shri Sukhlal . 

46 Shri Jagdeo . 

47 Shri Daddilal 

48 Shri Shyamlal 

49 Shr i Phool Ghand . 

50 Shri Ramdulare 

51 Shri Dulichand 

52 Shri Bakhcdi 

53 Shti BaboolaJ 

54 Shri Raghunath 

55 Shri Tugga 

56 Shri Ganga Prasad . 

57 Shri Ram Lakhan . 

58 Shri Bhura 

59 Shri Pancham Puri . 
do Shri Surajdin 

dl Shri Mani 
d2 Shri Ramphal 
d3 Shri Vishwanath 
d4 Shri Dasaiya . 

<55 Shri Tikaram 
•66 Shri Bihari 
^7 Shri Munua Singh 
d8 Shri Ramesh . 
d9 Shri Gouri Shanker 

70 Shri Kishor; Lai 

71 Shri Ramdhani 

72 Shri Soore 

73 Shri Murari 

74 Shri Chunnilai 

75 Shri Lakhanlal 

76 ShriAmritlal . 

77 Shri Awaseri . 

78 Shri Phool Chand 

79 Shri Ram Bishal 

80 Shri Nanhelal 

81 Shri Teji Lai. 


Ramadhln 
Sheodin. 
Gayadin 
Mahadeo 
Sheodhare 
. Vaaudeo 
Kamls 
. Ghutku 
. Bishram 
. Harmohan 
. Sujhelal 
Rambas 

. Todar Singh 
. Kallo . 

Mangal . 

. Mahadeo 
Ramadhin 
. Girdhari 
Ram Manoha 
Ramesh war 
. Baldeo . 

, Sadhoo . 

. Chunnilai 
. Hemraj . 

Mangal . 

. Jodhan 
. Buddha 
. Tilakoo 
. Kimnoo . 

. Buddha 
. Ghasl . 

. Baraiya . 

. Badri 
, Kalka . 
Danga . 
Sheobaiak 
. Mouni . 

. Sukhial . 

. Chhote Puri 
Devi 
Lalla 

. Chunni . 

. Shanker. 

Rama . 

. Lukai . 

. Pusu 

Kandhi Singh 
Mahadeo 
Shikhtoo 
. Jamuna 
Mahabir 
. Binte 
Bintc . 
Dharampai 
. Patiram 
. Durjan . 

Murli . 

. Mandar . 
Ganga Ram 
Jhunni . 
Shankar. 


767 

768 

770 

771 
776 

781 

782 

784 

785 

788 

789 
792 
796 
809 
820 
832 
841 

844 

845 

846 
848 
850 

855 

856 
858 
»S9 

865 

866 
875 
884 

887 

889 

891 

894 

895 
89 9 
901 

905 

906 

907 

915 

916 
918 
927 
957 
964 

1150 

1170 

117X 

1172 

1176 

n8r 

1184 

1185 

1186 

X187 

1191 

1x92 

U93 

1196 

1197 


[No. 36/29/67-LRI.] 

3. S. SAHASRANAMAN, Under Secy. 



345*5 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER X*, 1967/AW«¥A <I;W [PmITH- 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 14th September 1907 

SO. 3367 — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
83 of the Mines Act, 1952 (35 of 1952), the Central Government hereby exempts 
women employed in concreting work at Barsua Iron Ore Mine of M/s. Hindustan 
Steel Limited, from the operation of the provisions of section 4fi of the said Act 
In so far as the said provisions prohibit the employment of women on surface 
after 7.00 p.m, subject to the conditions that no woman so exempted shall be 
permitted to be employed in such work between the hours of 10.00 p,m. and 
5.00 a.m. and that the periods of work of every such woman shall be so arranged 
that there shall be an interval of not less than eleven hours between successive 
periods of work- 

[No. 0/4/07-M-I.] 
J. D- TEW ARI, Undej Secy. 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 


New Delhi, the 15th September 1907 


S.O. 3368. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section (3) 
of section 17 of the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 1952, (19 of 1952), the 
Central Government hereby directs that every employer in relation to an estab- 
lishment exempted under clause (a) or clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 
17 of the said Act, or in relation to an emp’oyee or a class of employees exempted 
under paragraph 27, or as the case may be, paragraph 27A, of the Employees’ 
Provident Funds Scheme, 1952, — 


(1) shall Invest every month within a period of fifteen days of the date of 
collections not less than 80 per cent (eighty per cent.) of the provident fund 
accumulations in respect of the em ^iyees in such establishment, or such em- 
ployee or as the case may be, such class of employees, which are available after 
making provision for refunds to outgoing members or their nominees or heirs, 
in Government securities (hereinafter referred to as ‘Central Government securi- 
ties’) as defined in sub-clause (i) or sub-clause (ii) of clause (a) of sub-section 

(2) of section 2 of the Public Debt Act, 1944 (18 of 1944), being securities created 
and issued by the Central Government; 

(2) shall invest within the period specified in direction (1) above the balance 
of the said accumulations which are so available in any Government security 
(whether created and issued by the Central Government or by any State Govern- 
ment) referred to In clause (a) of the said sub-section (2) of section 2 of the 
Public Debt Act, 1944 (18 of 1944) or in any Savings or other Certificates issued 
by the Central Government; 

(3) shall not re-invest such accumulations (whether invested in securities 
created and issued by the Central Government or in certificates issued by the 
Central Government or in securities created and issued by a State Government) 
in any securities other than ‘Central Government securities’; 

(4) shall not convert any securities or certificates referred to in direction (3) 
In which such accumulations have been invested into any securities other than 
'Central Government securities’; and 


(5) shall formulate proper procedure for prompt investment of such accumu- 
lations In accordance with the aforesaid directions and shall have it approved by 
the Regional Provident Fund Commissioner concerned. 

fNo. 36(7)/07-PF-I.7 


P, SADAGOPAN, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 19 th September 1907 

S.O. 3369. — In exercise of the powers conferred ^y siib-section (3) of section 1 
of the Employees’ State Insurance Act. 1948 (34 of 1948) , the Central Gov rn 
ment hereby appoints the 24th day of September, 1907 as the date on 



Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, IflflT/ASVINA I, I860 3457 
_ ■ ■ - ■ , . . ■ 

provisions of Chapter IV (except sections 44 and 45 which have already been 
brought into force) and Chapters V and VI [except sub-section (1) of section 79 
and sections 77, 78, 79 and 81 which have already been brought into force] of 
the said Act shall come into force in the following area In the State of Kerala, 
namely: — 

The area comprising the revenue village of Kodumba in the Palghat Taluk 
In the Palghat District in the State of Kerala. 

[Fi'e No, 13(14)/07-HI.] 
H. C. MANGHANI, Under Secy. 

MINISTRY OF INFORMATION & BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 11th September 1907 

S.O. 3370. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5(1) of the Cine- 
matograph Act, 1952 and sub-rule (3) of rule 8 read with sub-rule 2 of rule 9 
of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1958, the Central Government hereby 
appoints following persons as members of the Advisory Panel of the Central 
Board of Film Censors at Madras with immediate effect- 

1. Smt. Indira S. Mehta 

2. Dr. T. N. Ramachandran 

3. Shri T. S. Pattabiraman 

4. Shri K. R. Sundararajan 

[No- U/3/65-F(C).l! 

H- C. KHANNA, Dy. Secy. 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 8th September 1967 

S.O. 3371. — In pursuance of the Directions issued under the provisions of the 
enactments specified in the First Schedule annexed hereto the Central Government 
after considering the recommendations of the Film Advisory Board, Bombay here- 
by approves the film specified in column 2 of the Second Schedule annexed hereto 
In all its language versions to be of the description specified against it in column 0 
of the said Second Schedule. 

The First Schedule 

(1) Sub section (4) of the Section 12 and Section 16 of the Cinematograph 
Act, 1952 (Central Act XXXVII of 1952). 

(2) Sub-section (3) of Section 5 and Section 9 of the Bombay Cinemas 
(Regu’atlon) Act, 1953 (Bombay Act XI of 1953) - 

r 3) Sub-section (4) of Section 5 and Section 9 of the Saurashtra Cinemas 
(Regulation) Act, 1953 (Saurashtra Act XVII of 1953). 

The Second Schedule 


S. Title of Lergth Name of the Ntune of the pro- Whether a Scientific film or • 
No the film 35 mm Applicant ducer film intended fur educational 

,, purposes or a film dealing with 

news and current events or a 
documentary film 


123 4 5 


6 


1 Mahara h- 2 K 4 M Director of Piibbcity, Govern- Film derling with news and 
tra News ment ot Maharashtra, Bombay. current eventB (For release in 

No. 183 Maharashtra Circuit only) 


[No. F. 24/1/67-FP App. 1 192 ] 

S.O. 3372, — In pursuance of the directions issued under the provisions of each 
of the enactments specified in the First Schedule annexed hereto, the* Central 
Government after considering the rcommendatfons of the Films Advisory Board, 
Bombay hereby approved the films specified in column 2 of the Second Schedule 



3458 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 2S, 1967/ASVINA 1 , 1889 [Part II- 


annexed hereto in Gujarati to be of the description specified against each In 
column 8 ctf the said Second Schedule- 

The First Schedule 

(1) Sub-section 4 of the Section 12 and Section 16 of the Cinematograph 
Act, 1952 (Central Act XXXVII of 1952). 

(2) Sub-section (3) of Section 5 and Section 9 of the Saurashtra Cinemas 
(Regulation) Act, 1953 (Saurashtra Act XVII of 1953) - 

(3) Sub-section (4) of Section 5 and Section 9 of the Bombay Cinemas 
Regu'ation) Act, 1953 (Saurashtra Act XVII of 1953) - 

The Second Schedule 


S. Title of Length Name of the Name of the Pro- Whether a scientific film or a 
No the film 35 mm Applicant dueer film intended for educational 

purposes or a film dealing 
with news nnd current events 
or a documentary film. 


6 


1 Mahiti- 
chitra No, 

84 


198 • 12 M Director of Information, Govern- Film dealing with news and 
ment of Gujarat, Ahmedabad. current events (For release 

in Gujarat Circuit only). 


a Slbarkar- 599 J 4 M Dc. 

tha Vikas 
Darshan 


Documentary film (For release 
in Gujarat C’rcuit only). 


3 Rakhe 304 • 50 M 
Chetrata 


Do. 


Film intended for educational 
purposes (For release in 
Gujarat Circuit only). 


[No. F. 24/1/67-FF App. 1193 1 


S.O. 3373.— In pursuance of the Directions issued under the provisions of each 
of the enactments specified in the First Schedule annexed hereto the Central 
Government after considering the recommendations of the Film Advisory Board, 
Bombay hereby approves the film specified in column 2 of the Second Schedule 
annexed hereto in Hindi to be of the description specified against it in column 6 
of the said Schedule. 


The First Schedule 

( 1 ) Sub-section (4) of Section 5 of the Uttar Pradesh Cinemas (Regulation) 
Act, 1955 (Uttar Pradesh Act Not. 3 of 1956)- 

The Second Schedule 


S. Title of Length Name of the Name of the pro- Whether a scientific film or a film 
No the film 35 mm Applicant duccr intended for educational 

purposes or a film dealing 
with news and current events 
or a documentary film 


234 5 


6 


1 Aic Mere 298 ’ 7 cm Director of Informadon, Gove n- Documentary film (For release 
Bachchc ment of Uttar Pradesh, Luck- in U. P. circuit only), 

now. 


[No. F. 24/1/07-FP App. 1194.] 



*C. »(1I)J tHB GsOarrrK OTINDL4 .SSITOMBER m, 1907/AJTINA L 1989 345 $ 


S.O. 3374. — In pursuance of the directions issued under the provisions of each 
of the enactments specified in the First Schedule annexed hereto, the Central 
Government after considering the recommendation of the Film Advisory Board, 
Bombay hereby approves the film specified in column, 2 of the Second Schedule 
■annexed hereto in all its language versions to be of the description specified against 
dt in column 6 of the said Second Schedule. 

The Fihst Schedule 

•(I) Sub-sectlcn (2) of Section 5 of the Assam 
1953 (Assam Act XIV of 1953). 

Cinemas (Regulation) Act, 


The Second Schedule 


S. Title of Length 
No. the film 35mm 

Name of the Name of the Pro- 
Applicant ducer 

Whether a scientific film or a 
film intended for educational 
purposes or a film dealing 
with news and current events 
or a documentary film 

, 12 3 

4 5 

6 

1 Sonali 4<I7 

Dhananir M 

Sadhu 

* ! 

Director of Information & Public 
Relations, Govt, of Assam, 
Shillong. 

Documentary film (For release 
in Assam Circuit only). 


[No. F. 24/1/67-FP App. 1196 ] 


New Delhi, the 14 th September 1967 

S.O. 3375.— In pursuance of the directions issued under the provisions of each 
•of the enactments specified in the First Schedule annexed hereto the Central 
•Government after considering the recommendations of the Film Advisory Board 
Bombay hereby approves the film specified in column 2 of the Second Schedule 
annexed hereto in Gujarati to be of the description specified, against it in 
•column 6 of the said Second Schedule. 

The First Schedule 

(1) Sub-Section 4 of the Section 12 and Section 16 of the Cinematograph 

Act, 1952 (Central Act XXXVII of 1962); 

(2) Sub-Section (3) of Section 5 and Section 9 of the Saurashtra Cinemas 

(Regulation) Act, 1953 (Saurashtra Act XVII of 1953); 

(3) Sub-Section (4) of Section 5 and Section 9 of the Bombay Cinemas 

(Regulation) Act, 1953 (Saurashtra Act XVII of 1953), 




The Second 

Schedule 


Title of the 
/No. film 

Length 

35mm 

Name of the 
Applicant 

Name of the 
Producer 

Weather a Scientific film 
or a film intended for edu- 
cational Purposes or a film 
dealing with news and cur- 
rent events or a document- 
ary film. 

I 2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

( 1 ) Turang No 
Kasabi 

279.31 M 

Director of Information, 
Government of Gujarat, 
Ahmedabad, 

Documentary film (For 
relacse in Gujarat Circuit 

only). 


[No. F. 24/1/67-FP App. 1199]. 

BANU RAM AGARWAL, Under Secy. 




34^o t.he oajf.tte of inwi.% w, ' li titM pm rr_ 


MJNI8TRY OS’ COMMERCE 

New Delhi, the 13 th September 1967 

S.O. 3376. — In exercise of the powers conferred under sub-section (1) of Section 
6 of the Central Silk Board Act. 1948 (61 of 1948), the Central Government here- 
by appoints Shri Mahabir Dass, Member, Rajya Sabha and Member of the 
Central Silk Board as Vice-Chairman of the Central Silk Board for the period 
upto and including the 12th May, 1969, 


[No. F. 22/1/67 -Tex(G).J 
K. SR1NIVASAN, Dy. Secy!. 


< Office of the Jt. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports) 

ORDERS 

Bombay, the 24 th July , 1967 

Subject. — Order for cancellation of Custom copy of the licence No. P/CGf 
2053323 dated 10 th November, 1965, issued in favour of M/s, The 
Government Woollen Mills, Srinagar, Kashmir. 

S.O. 3377.— M/s, The Government Woollen Mills, Kashmir was granted an 
import licence No. P/CG/2053323 dated 10th November, 1965, for Rs. 18,66,033 
for the import of woollen textiles machinery from Belgium under Belgian Credit 
(Deferred Payment Terms) for the licensing period AM 65. They have applied 
for a duplicate custom copy of the licence on the ground that the original cus- 
tom copy of the licence has been lost or misplaced. It is further stated that the 
original licence was not registered with any Customs House and not utilised. 

2, In support of this contention, the applicant has filed an affidavit on a 
stamped paper duly attested before the Justice of Peace, Greater Bombay. I am 
satisfied that the original custom copy of the licence No. P/CG/2053323 dated 
10th November, 1965, has been lost or misplaced and direct that a duplicate 
custom copy of the licence should be issued to the applicant. The original 
custom copy of the licence No. P/CG/2053323 dated 10th November, 1965, is 
cancelled. 

[No. Y.J 


Bombay, the 21th July 1967 

Subject, — Order for cancellation of Customs purposes copy of licence No.. P/ssf 
1530048 dated 12 th February, 1965, for Rs. 1688 issued in favour of 
M./s. New Poona Industries, Bombay Poona Road, Mile No. 103/2* 
5 . No. 227 and 228/1, Post PlmpH Penicilin Factory Pimprl, Dist. 
Poona, Mah. State. 

S.O. 3378. — M/s. New Poona Industries, Poona was granted an import licence 
No. P/ss/1530048 dated 12th February, 1965, for Rs. 1,688 for the import items 
shown on the reverse of this order for the licensing period AM-65 from G.C.A. 
They have applied for a dup’icate copy of the licence on the ground that the 
original Customs purposes copy of the licence has been lost or misplaced. It is 
further stated that the original licence was registered with Bombay Customs 
House and was utilised for Rs. 1264. 

2. In support of this contention, the applicant has filed an affidavit on a 
stamped paper duly attested before P. M. Dandekar, Notary, Maharashtra State I 
am satisfied that the original licence No. P/ss/1530048 dated 12th February, 
1965, has been lost or misplaced and direct that a duplicate Customs purposes 
copy of the licence should be issued to the applicant. The original licence 
No. F/S3/1530048 dated 12th February, 1965, is cancelled. 


[No. 3.] 


Sbc. Tl « GAMTTB W INMA t -MrTEMWLR’ M/f9fl^tA9TIKK 1, 1889 3^5 1; 


Bombay, the 11th August 1967 

Subject. — Order of cancellation of Customs purposes copy or licence No. P/ss/' 
1554658 dated 25 th August, 1966, for Rs. 43,648 issued in favour of 
M/s. U.K. Roller Flour Mills 263, Central Avenue Road , Schepne, 
Lakadganj Lay out, Nagpur-2. 

S.O. 3379. — M/s, U.K. Roller Flour Mills, Nagpur was granted an import 
licence No. P./s$/1554658 dated 25th August, 1966 for Rs. 43,648 for the import 
Items shown on the reverse of this order for the licensing period AM-67 from* 
B.C.A. They have applied for a duplicate copy ot the licence on the ground that 
the original Customs purposes copy of the licence has been lost or misplaced. 
It is further stated that the original licence was not registered with any Customs 
House and not utilised. 

2. In support of his contention, the applicant has filed an affidavit on a- 
stamped paper duly attested before the Court of the Taluka Magistrate, Nagpur.. 
I am satisfied that the original licence No. P/ss/1554658 dated 25th August, 1966, 
has been lost or misplaced and direct that a duplicate Customs purposes copy 
of the licence should be issued to the appheant. The original licence No. P/ss J 
1554658 dated 25th August, 1966, is cancelled. 

[No. 4.3, 

Smt. M. D’ Costa, 

Dy. Chief Controller of Imports & Exports 
for Jt. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports.. 


(Offlce of the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, New Delhi) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 8 th September 1067 

8.0. 3380. — M/s. Philips India Ltd., Calcutta were granted an Import Licence- 
No- G/DG/ 2 100430/ C /XX / 17-18 / CH/ 17-18, dated 4th December, 1963 for Rs. 6,584 
for the Import of spare parts for Speech input equipment falling under 78 (VIII) /IT 
cf the I.T-C- Schedule. As the above licence which has not been fully utilised 
lias expired cn 30th May, 1964 with an un-utilised balance, both the copies of it - 
are hereby cancelled. 

[No. F. 132-P/ Cont-/63-64/ GLS/592 ]! 


New Delhi, the 11 th September 1967 

S.O. 3381. — M/s. The S. K, F. Ball Bearing Co. Pvt. Ltd,, Bombay were granted' 
an Import Licence No- G/RC/2083416/R/IB/20/CH/19-20, dated 25th November, 
1904 fc*r Rs. 3,720, for the import of 4 Nos- Axle Box Housing Complete as per Drg. 
No. Z4107-A falling under 65<5)(iii)/V of the I.T-C. Schedule. As Controller of 
Stores, Southern Railway, Madras has cancelled the Railway Order No. EAI/142/ 
S/7972, dated 12th October, 1964 both the copies of the above Import Licence, 
vhich have not been utilized, are hereby cancelled. 

[No. 19O-S/Rly-/64-05/GLS/0O2-T 
S. A. SESHAN, 

Deputy Chief Controller of Imports and Exports 
for Chief Controller of Imports and Exports; 


MINISTRY OF FOOD, AGRICULTURE, COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND 

CO-OPERATION 

(Department of Food) 

New Delhi, the 18 th September 1987 

8.0. 3382. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 42 of the Warehous- 
ing Corporation Act, 1962 (58 of 1962), tht Central Warehousing Corporation,. 




3462 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1907/ AS VINA l", 1*89 [Past ll- 


with the previous sanction of the Central Government, hereby makes the follow- 
ing regulations further to amend the Central Warehousing Corporation Employees’ 
Provident Fund Regulations, 1902, namely : — 

1. (1) These regulations may be called the Central Warehousing Corporation 
Employees’ Provident Fund (Amendment) Regulations, 1967. 

(2) These regulations shall come Into force on the date of their publication in 
the Official Gazette. 

2. In the Central Warehousing Corporation Employees’ Provident Fund Re- 
gulations, 1902, (hereinafter referred to as the said regulations), in regulation 

(i) in clause (b), the words “or from the beginning of the month follow- 
ing that in which he completes his period of probation whichever is 

. later” shall be omitted : 

(ii) in the proviso, for the words “other than casual remuneration from the 
Corporation”, the words "remuneration from the Corporation, other 
than casual remuneration," shall be substituted. 

3. In the said regulations, for regulation 10, the following regulation shall be 

substituted, namely: — i 

‘TO. Corporation's contribution : — Save as otherwise provided, the Corpora- 
tion shall contribute to the Fund every month as employer’s contribu- 
tion an amount equal to the amount subscribed by each of the subscri- 
bers : 

Provided that the amount contributed by the Corporation in respect of 
any subscriber shall not exceed 8-1/3 per cent of the pay earned by 
the subscriber during that month: 

Provided further that the Corporation shall not be liable to make any 
such contribution in respect of a subscriber who has been permitted 
to subscribe to the Fund under the proviso to regulation 7." 

[No. F.20-8/07-SG.II.] 
DEVAKI NANDAN GOYA!., Under Secy. 


(Department of Agriculture) 

New Delhi, the 4 th September 1907 

S.O. 3383. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricul- 
tural Produce (Grading and Marking) Act, 1937 (1 of 1937), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby makes the following rules further to amend the Cotton Grading and 
Marking Rules, 1962, the same having been previously published as required by 
the said section, namely:- — 

1. These rules may be called the Cotton Grading and Marking (Amendment) 
Rules, 1907- 

2, In the Cotton Grading and Marking Rules, 1902, in the Table under Sche- 
dule I, against item VIII, after entry 9 in column 2. the following entry shall be 
Inserted, namely: — 

“10 Suyodhar”. 

[No. 13-9/07-AM.I 


New Delhi, the 13 th September 1967 

S.O. 3384.-'— The following draft of certain rules further to amend the Cardamom 
Grading and Marketing Rules, 1962. which the Central Government proposes to 
make, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural Pro- 
duce (Grading and Marking) Act, 1937 (1 of 1937) are published, as required by 
the said section for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby 
and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on 
or after the 10th October, 1907. 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date aforesaid, will be considered by the Cen- 
tral Government. I , „ * , . f 




Sec. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASV1NA 1, 1889 3463 


Draft Rules 

1. These rules may be called the Cardamom Grading and Marking (Amend- 
ment) Rules, 1967. 

2. In the Cardamom Grading and Marking Rules, 1962, — 

(1) in rule 1, for sub-rule (2), tne following sub-rule shall be substituted, 
namely: — 

“(2) They shall apply to Cardamom ( Elettaria cardamom ) (capsules, 
seeds and powder) produced in India;” 

(ii) in rule 3, for the words and figures ‘‘Schedules I to' VI”, the words, 

figures, and letter "Schedule I to VIA” shall be substituted; 

(iii) in rule 4, for the words and figures “Schedule I to VI” the words, figures, 

and letter “Schedules I to VIA” shall be substituted; 

(iv) for rules 5 and 0, the following rules shall be substituted, namely: — 
“6. Grade designation marks: — 

(1) The grade designation mark in the case of cardamom (Sapsules. 

seeds and powder) packed in polythene or paper bags shall con- 
sist of a design incorporating the number of the certificate of 
authorisation, the word “Agmark” and the grade, approved by 
the Agricultural Marketing Adviser. 

(2) The grade designation mark in the case of Cardamom (Capsules, 

seeds and powder) packed in tin or glass containers shall consist 
of a paste-on label, specifying the grade designation and bearing 
the design of a map of India with the word ‘Agmark”. 

(3) The grade designation mark in the case of Cardamom (Capsules. 

seeds and powder) packed in containers of Jute or Cloth or 
Wooden cases as also in containers in which sealed polythene- 
bags of graded cardamom (Capsules, Seeds and Powder) are 
packed, snail consist of label specifying the grade designation 
and bearing a design consisting of an outline map of India with 
the word ‘‘Agmark” and the figure of the rising sun with the 

words ‘Produce of India' and ( '^TRrTW xPTlT ) resembling 
the one as set out in Schedule VII. 


0. Methods of Marking: — 

(1) The grade designation mark shall be securely affixed to or printed 

on each container in a manner approved by the Agricultural 
Marketing Adviser. 

(2) In addition to the above, the following particulars shall also be 

clearly and indelibly marked on each containers: — 

(a) Date of packing In code or plain letters, 

(b) Lot number, and 

(c) Net weight. 

(3) An authorised packer may, after obtaining the prior approval of 

the Agricultural Marketing Adviser, mark his private trade mark 
on a container, In a manner approved by the said officer, provid- 
ed that the private trade mark does not represent a quality or 
grade different from that indicated by the grade designation mark 
affixed to or printed on the container in accordance with these 
rules.”. 



3464 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER. 25, 1907/ASVJNA 1, 186$ [Bast II- 


- . ”* 

(4) after Schedule VI, the following schedule VIA shall be added, 
namely: — 


Schedule VI-A. 

(See rules 3 and 4 ) 

Grade designation and definitions of quality of Cardamom powder. 


Grade 

"Designation 


Special Characteristics. 


Moisture Total • Ash 

percent aah percent insoluble 
by weight by weight indilute 
Max. Max. Hcl percent 

by weight 
Max. 


General Characteristics 


I 234 


5 


Standard . 14^0 8'0 3 - 01 . Cardamom powder shall be the material 

obtained from the Seeds separated from the 
capsules of Electariacardamomum (L). 

2 ."Tt shall be free from admixture, from mould 
growth, from insect infestation or mustry 
odour. 

3 . It shall be free from coarse particles and 
ground to such a fineness that the whole 
of it passes through a 500 micron sieve. 


[No. F. 13-21 /67-AM.] 
E. K. BALASUNDARAM, Under Secy. 


(Department of Co-operation) 

New Delhi, the 6 th September 1907 

S-O. 3385- — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5B of the Multi-Unit 
Co-operative Societies Act, 1942 (6 of 1042) and In supersession cf the former 
Ministry of Community Development and Co operation (Department of Co-operation) 
Notification No- 3-14/64-CT, dated the 29th/30th January, 1965, the Central Govern- 
ment hereby directs that all the powers or authority exerciseable by the Central 
Registrar of Co-operative Societies under the said Act, shall also be exerciseable 
by Sbrl R- Pasupathi, Director of Industries and Commerce, Madras, in respect of 
the Multi-Unit Industrial Co-operative Societies which are or are deemed to be 
actually registered in the State of Madras, subject to the condition that any 
proposal for registration of new Multi-Unit Industrial Societies or amendment to 
"the bye-laws of existing or 1 new Multi-Unit Societies shall have the prior approval 
of the Central Government. 

[No. 7-13/66-Credit] 

S.O. 3386 — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5-B of the Multi-Unit 
Co-operative Societies Act, 1942 (6 of 1942) and in supersession, of the Ministry of 
.Food, Agriculture, Community Development and Co-pperation (Department 
of Co-operation). Notification No. 7-13/ 66-Credit, dated the 2nd January, 1967, 
•the Central Government hereby directs that the following amendment shall be 
made In the Notification of the Government of India in the former Ministry of 
Community Development and Co-operation (Department of Co-operation), No- S.O- 





Sko, 5(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; SEPTEMBER 25, 1%7/ASVINA 1 , 1839 3465 


1503, dated the 28th June, 1961, published at page 1556 of Part II, Section 3(11) of 
the Gazette of India of the 3th July, 1961, namely : — 

In the said Notification against Serial No. 18, loir the entry "Shri D. K- Jain”, 
the entry "Shri Bishan Dass” shall be substituted. 


[No. 7-13/60-Credit.] 
V- V. NATHEN, Dy. Secy. 


(Indian Council of Agricultural Research) 

New Delhi, the 16 th September 1967 

H.O. 3387, — In pursuance of Regulation 2(Iv) of the Standing Finance Committee 
Regulations, 1940, Dr. K. Rami ah. Vice Chancellor, Orissa University of Agri- 
culture and Technology, Bhubaneswar and a member of the Governing Body of 
the Indian Council of Agricultural Research has been elected by that Body to 
be a member of the Standing Finance Committee of the Council for a period 
of one year with effect from the 30th May, 1967, or till such time as his successor 
is duly elected by that Body, whichever is later, 

TNo, 35(l>/6,7'-CDN(I).] 
R. B, JAIN, Under Secy. 


w-ifai f fa wjrwi 

df ftcvfV, l6f(TcT«p; 196 7 

qHo W,o 3388 — farT f-TORiTrfT, 1940 $ 2 ( 4) TT 

T d’ ftr g/o tgo T4dT, 3WT'lfd, ufpfT $fa rni jjWrfjiT 
tjw u cr<r vr ffa si jR it i vfuri ^ smfrf-irw $ Rnur, *Ft srtft faw iru 
T isirf fdU Ti *TT^i fahRT 30 lit, 1 967 3 CT Ef<7 t farr 

wir tt ;.urc dg srefar ti Punnr sra W'rfiuFrfr fd^if^r tc Ttii 
%n r sfr tfi Tf'i ^ t < f-rtrffaj tc faqr wr 5 1 

[ffo 35 ( l)/67-^fV<»^rc» tr-To ( 1 )] 

W;To sfip ^"T, Tfar I 


DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS 
(P- and T. Board) 

New Delhi, the 31st August 1967 

S.O 3389. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (2) of rule 9, clause 
(b) iof sub-rule (2) of rule 12, and sub-rule (1) of rule 24, read with rule 34, 
of the Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965, 
the President hereby makes the following further amendments in the Notification 
of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Communications (Posts and 
Telegraphs) No. S-R-O. 620, da»*cd the 26th February, 1967, namely:— 

In the Schedule to the said Notification, in Part II — General Central Service, 
■Class III- under the heading “Office of Managers, Telegraphs/Tele_phones Work- 
shops’’, against the entry “Draftsman Grade I; Building Overseer; Welfare Superin- 
tendent; Assistant Supervisory Test Clerk; Inspector c4! Watch and Ward; Nurse; 


3466 the gazette of India : September 23, 1967/asvina i, 1889 [Part ii— 


Electrician; Head Test Clerk’’ in column 1, below the existing entries "Manager. 
Workshops”, "AU" and “General Manager, Posts and Telegraphs Workshops'' 
occurring respectively in columns 3, 4 and 5, thtf following entries shall respectively 
be inserted, namely 


3 


4 


5 


"Officers of General Central (i) to (iv) Manager Workshops”. 

Service Class I, in Senior 
Time Scale. 

[No. 7-7/67-WK.;? 

K- RHARATHAN, 

Asstt. Director General (SG-) 

(P. & T. Board) 

New Delhi . the 16 th September 1967 

S.O. 3390.- — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 21 of the Indian Post 
Office Act, 1898 ( 6 of 1898) the Central Government hereby makes the following 
rule further to amend the India Post Office Rules, 1933, namely: — 

1. These rules may he called the Indian Post Office (Ninth Amendment) Rules. 
1967. 

2, In rule 183 (b) of the Indian Post Office Rules, 1933, for the words “Madras,. 
Mysore” the words “Madras, Meerut, Mysore” shall be substituted- 

[No. 24/3/67-CI.J 

DALJINDER SINGH, 
Director Postal Technical. 


CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECT TAXES 
Income-tax 

New Delhi, the 12 th September 1987 

S-O. 3391 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 
122 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) and all other powers enabling it in 
that behalf, the Central Board of Direct Taxes, New Delhi, hereby makes the 
following amendments in the schedule appended to itj Notification No. 62, dated 
7th July, 1967, namely:— 

I, Against A-Range, Nagpur under column (2) the following entries shall be 
added : — 

(14) Incometax Officer, Assessment -I, Nagpur, 

(15) Incometax Officer, Assessment-II, Nagpur. 

(16) Incometax Officer, Assessment-V, Nagpur. 

(17) Incometax Officer, Administration, Nagpur. 

(18) Incometax Officer, Collection, NagpUr. 

(19) Incometax Officer, Central Circle-I, Nagpur. 

(20) Incometax Office^ Central Circle-II, Nagpur, 

(21) Incometax Officer, Central Circle-Ill, Nagpur. 

II. Against B-Range, Nagpur under column (2) the following entries shall be 
added: 

(6) Incometax Officer, Assessment-Ill, Nagpur. 

(7) Incometax Officer, Assessment-IV, Nagpur, 

(8) Incometax Officer, Assessment- VIj Nagpur, 

(9) Incometax Officer, Assessment-VII, Nagpur. 



Sfc. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23. 1967/ASVTNA 1, 188!) 3467 


111. Against Raipur Range, Raipur under column (2) the following entries 
shall be added: 

(10) Incometax Officer, Assessment-!, Raipur. 

(11) Incometax Officer, Assessment-II, Raipur. 

(12) Incometax Officer, Assessment-Ill, Raipur. 

113) Incometax Officer, Asscssment-IV, Raipur. 

(14) Incometax Officer, fylt—r.i Vet-on and Collection, Raipur. 

(15) Incometax Officer, Jagdalpur. 

This Iv otiflca) ion shall lakt.^ Tect from 12th September, 19437. 

Explanatory Note 

The amendments have become necessary on account of the creation ol' new 
wards by abolishing the existing incometax circles and wards at Nagpur and 
Raipur in the Commissioner’s charge and also on account of opening of a new 
Incometax Circle at Jagdalpur. 

(The above note does not form part of the notification, but is intended to be 
merely clariflcatory). 


[No. 99 (F. No. 50/20/67-ITJ).] 


New Delhi, the 13 th September 1967 


S.O. 3392. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (i) of Section 
122 oC the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of FBI) and o x all other powers enabling 
it in that behalf, the Central Board of Direct Tuxes hereby makes the following 
amendments in the Schedule appended to Its Notification No 81-Income-tax, dated 
the 21st June, 1966, namely: — 

In the said schedule against ‘B’ Range, Madras under Column 2, the following 
shall be substituted, namely: 

‘B’ Range, Madras 

1. City Circle II (All Sections), Madras 

2. Salaries Circle, Madras. 

3. Salaries Circle I, Madras. 

4- Salaries Circle II, Madras- 

,6. Special Survey Circle (All Sections), Madras 

6. Special Investigation Circle ‘A’. Madras. 

7. Special Investiirauon Circle ‘B\ Madras 
8- Tax Recovery Circle, Madras- 

9. Central Circles I, II, III, IV, V, VI. VII, VIII, IX 
and X. Madras 

10. City Circle VTT fall Sections), Madras. 


Explanatory Note 

The amendments have become necessary on account of creation of a new 
Central Circle X at Madras. 

(The above note does not form a part of the notification but is intended to 
be merely clariflcatory) . 

[No. 100 (F. No. 50/138/67-ITJ) ! 
F- G. GANDHI, Under Secy- 


Estate Duty 

New Delhi, the 18th September 1967 

S.O. 3393. In exercise of the powers conferred bv the second proviso to sub- 

section" (2) of section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 ( 34 of 1953), the Central 
Board of Direct Taxes hereby direds that the Income-tax Officer uonnmted as 
Additional Assistant Controller of Estate Dutv and posted to the Estate Duty 
cum Income-tax Circle, Hyderabad shall perform his functions as an Assistant 



3468 THE GAZETTE OF TNDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA 1, 1889 [Pari II- 

Controller of Estate Duty to the exclusion of the Assistant Controller of Estate 
Duty. Estate Duty cum Income-tax Circ'e. Hyderabad, jn respect of such estates 
or classes of estates as may be assigned to him. 

2. This notification shall come into force on the 23th day of September, 1967. 

[No. 17— F.No. 21/94/67-E.D.j 

G. R. HEGDE, Secy. 

CENTRAL BOARD OF EXCISETAND CUSTOMS 
Customs 

New Delhi, the 23rd September 1967 

S.O. 3394, — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 9 of the Customs 
Act, 1962 (52 of 1962), the Central Board of Excise and Customs hereby declares 
Jullunder in the State of Punjab to be a warehousing station. 

[No. 97/67— Customs F. No- 3/44/67-Cus. VII.] 

M. S. SUBRAMANYAM, Under Secy. 

CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE 

Manufactured Products 
Baroda, the ai August 1967 

S.O. 3395.— In exercise of the powers conferred on me under Rule j of the Centra] Fxdse Rules 
I944, I empower the officers of Central Excise C Electorate, Baroda, not below the rank specified 
in column No. 4 of the table, to exercise, within their jurisdiction, the power of the "Collector'* 
under Rules mentioned in column No. 3 in the said table. 

Table 


Nature of powers conferred on Collectors Rule Collectors powers 

No. delegated to all 

officers not helow 
the rank of Superin- 
tendent. 

(I) 00 (3) (4) 

1 To accept first A. S. P. application for full period for 96 ZA(i) Superintendents. 

which special procedure can be availed of. 

2 To accept first A. S. P. application for a period less than 96ZA(2) Do. 

the prescribed period. 

3 To determine the period for which a manufacturer may 96ZA(3) Assistant Collector. 

be precluded from working under the special proce- 
dure for failure to give proper notice for not avail- 
ing of such procedure during the period for which 
permission has been granted to him. 

4 (a) To accept renewal application in form A. S. P. 96ZAU) Superintendent. 

(b) To condone delay in submission of A. S. P. appli- do. (i) Superintendent 
cation for renewal for condoning 

delays not exceed- 
ing 15 days. 

(it) Assistant Col- 
lector for condon- 
ing delays ex- 
ceeding 1 J days. 


S. 

No. 



Sec. 3 (H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23 , 1967 /ASVINA I, 1889 9^,9 


( 1 ) l-J (V (-0 


5 To condone delay in submission 1 f cpfl'innon for re- qoZD( 2) (/_) Superintendent for 
m >val in form A. K 6 and to c >nd< ne djavs in mak- for condoning 

•ng rnonihh deposits. delays not exceed- 

ing 5 days. 

Ut) Assistant Col- 
lector if the 
delay exceeds 
the limits under 
fi) uhoie. 


t> To impose following penalties Ini mfi-oc Jji ation e'tc. 


(1 ) to demand duty at full rate 
111) to confiscate goods 

(tit) to impose penalty not exceeding R c.oo ol- 


96ZF(i)1 
<)6ZI'(ii) V 
ufiZFoC, j 


Adjudicating Offi- 
cers in accordance 
with their Emits 
of powers. 


[No. 6/67.] 

A. R. SIIANMUGAM, Collector. 

OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE 
Central Excise 

Bangaiare , the 23rd August 1967 


S.O. 3396. —In exercise of the powers tested in me under Rule s of the Central Excise Rules c 
1944, I herein empower the Central Excise Officers of the Mysore Central Excise Colledorate 
specified in Col. 1 tf Ihc table below to exerc't within their ic'peetivc jurisdiction the powers 
of Collector under the rule enumerated in Col. 2 ..nd subiect to the c n-fitions and lirmntvn set 
out in Col. 3 of the said table. 


Rank of Officer 


I 


C. Ex. Nature nf tile powers under the 
Rule rule delegated 


Extent of 
limitations 


2 


3 


4 


1. Superintendent. 

, 96ZA( 1 1 

To accept First A.S.P. applicanon 
for full period for which 
special procedure cun be availed 

of. 

p. Do. 

yfi/Adtt 

To accept first A. S. P. applica- 
tion for a period less than 
the prescribed period. 

3. Asstt. Collecti r. 

. 96ZA1 3) 

To determine the period for 
which a manufacturer may be 
precluded from working under 

The special procedure for failure 
to give pioper notice for not avail- 
ing of 'uch procedure during 
the period for which permis- 
sion has been grunted to him. 

4. Supcrinrendcni. 

. 9 fiZ.\t 4 ’ 

ta) To accept renewal applica- 
tions in form A.S.P. 

Do 

Do. 

(b) To condone delay in sub- For oondo ning eluy.s 
mission of A.S.P. appli- not cxxceedigni5 days 

cation for renewal. 



3470 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA - SEPTEMBER 23. 1967/4SVIW 1 , 1889 [P \Rr IT— 


1234 


Asstt. Collector. 


5. Superintendent. 


Asstt. Collector. 


9 6ZA(4) 

(b) To con lone delay in sub- 
mission of A.S.P. appli- 
cation for renewal. 

Tor condoning de- 
la' s exceeding 1 5 
day>. 

96ZD(2) 

To condone deL — ,n ‘■-nbnussion 
of apphe tion imoval m 

foTn A.k 6 J > condone 

delays in making ,m nfhly de- 
posits. 

K i i For condonmg de~ 
lays not exceeding 
S days. 

i til For ccndonmg de- 
lays if the delav 
exceeds the limits 

Do. 

Do. 

under item (i) 
above 


6. Adjudicating officers m 96 ZF\i) To un ->o„e follow. ng penalties 
accordance with the-r 96ZF(n) tor nu-Meclaration etc. — 
limits of powers. g6ZF(iv) To demand du f y at full rate. 

To confLeatc goods. 

To i nno-e peiial ' not e'-ceedirg 
P 2 o x> 


(Issued from f.ie C. No. I . ,/oT/ot 13. 2.) 

C. T A ITLALT Collector, 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CUSTOMS & CENTRAL EXCISE 

Shillong, the 31st Av.gust 1967 


S.O. 3397. — In exercise of the powers conferred upon me under Rule 5 of the 
C. E. Ru'es, 1944 and in partial modification of this Collectorate Notification 
No. 3/CE/67 dated 28th April, 1967, I hereby empower the Central Excise 
Officers specified in column 2 of the sub-joired table to exercise within their 
jurisdiction the powers of the “Collector” under the Centre ) Excise Rules enume- 
rated in column 1 thereof subject to the limitations set out in column 3 of the 
said table. 



Table 


C. E. Rules 

Rank of Officer Junior (upgraded) 

Limitations 

(i) 

( 2 ) 

(3) 

Rule 47 ( 4 )— 

Superintendent, C.E. and Senior Superinten- 
dent where there is o junior Superinten- 
dent in-charge of any particular Range or 
Factory. 

To permit the manufacturer not to 
make entries where there are no 
transactions. 

Rule 53 

Do. 

Do. 


[No. 6/CE/67.] 


A. K. BANDYOPADHYAY, Collector. 






Sec. 3(ii)] THE f. \/ET1 E OF IXDIV: SEPTEMBER 23, I967/ASVINA ), 1889 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs) 

REPORT OF THE CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE 
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 

For the Ye'ir July I, 1906 — June 30, 1967 
New Delhi, the 4th September 1967 

S.O. 3393.— In accordance WrffiTsfcetion 53(2) of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 
I'JJt, the Centra 1 Board of Directors lias submitted to the Government of India 
the hallowing report on file working and ^c.ounis of the Bank tor Ihe •year ended 
June 30, 1967 

I. OVER A r L J RENDS IN THE ECONOMY 

The year July 1966-June 1967 witnessed a continuation of serious difficulties 
in respe t ot the internal as well as the external balance of the economy The 
si.L sfcanUui dcvalu.uion of the Indian rupee, in June 1966 necessitated far-reaching 
adjustments in relative prices, costs and the pattern of investment. However, 
these adjustments, difficult as they aU\ ays are, proved even more so because of 
the severe drought following the previous years, creating new problems internally 
as we 1 at in the country’s external trade and payments- Domestic availabilities, 
both in the agricultural and hi the industrial sectors declined sharply because 
of the adverse agricultural season- National income in real terms is estimated 
to have shown a rite oi about 3 per cent in 1966-67* as against a decline of 

3-7 per cent m 1965-06; it was lower hr 0 6 per cent than in 1964-65 Fiices 

continued to rise and the pressure lor upward adjustments in Incomes gathered 

further strength The shortages in the supplies of raw materials, the sharp rise 

m import costs and the slow-down in investment both in the public and pnvate 
sectors resulted in the latter part ut the year under review in an emex genre of 
recessionary conditions in several basic and capital goods industries. The rate of 
growth of industrial production at 2-6 per cent in 1966-67 (April-March) was 
lower than in 1965-66 (5 4 per cent). 

2- As against the adverse trend in production, liquidity in the eronomv, which 
had already been high in the previous years, expanded further during the year, 
although at a slower pace than m 1965 06 The major fnctc-r contributing to the 
expansion of liquidity was the large budgetary deficits of the Central and State 
Governments financed by recourse to the banking system Bank credit to the 
private sector also showed a larger expansion (han in the preceding year In 
the result, the gap between aggiegate demand and c upply widened and this was 
reflected m a substantial rise in prices. The index of wholesale prices went up 
bv about 16 per cent during the year- This, following the rise of 10 per cent 
recorded in 1965-66, caused serious hardship to the vulnerable sections of the 
community- Some nine-tenths ol the rise was on account of food articles This 
order of increase in prices together with its impact on the cost of living index 
necessitated some adjustments in wages and salaries, the effect of which could not 
but be to accentuate the budgetary difficulties of the Central and State Governments 
and to add to inflationary pressures. 

3- On the side of external receipts and payments, the drought affected the 
country’s capacity to export agr culture-based products and at the same time 
necessitated larger imports ol food and raw materials The harden of servicing 
the accumulated foreign debt* also added to the payments difficulties Foreign 
aid receipts during the year were also- lower than in 1965-66. As a result, there 
was severe pressure on the foreign exchange reserves, which declined by $ 159 
million as against an increase ol $ 255 million during 1965-66, Net of a repurchase 
equivalent to $ 57:5 million from the International Monetary Fund in 1966-67 
and a net purchase of $ 162:5 milfion from that source in 1965-66, the reserves 
showed a fall equivalent to $ 102 million in 1966-67 as compared with a rise of 
$ 93 million in the previous year. 

4- A number of measures w r ere taken during the year to moderate price rises 
and to create a stable and competitive environment for increasing production, 
promoting exports and speeding up import substitution. CrPdlt policy was ndltisten 
in the direction of greater flexibility but within an overall frame-work of restraint. 
Special measures were taken to moderate the immediate impact of devaluation 
on prices, particularly the prices ol essential commodities Quantitative r---i no- 
tions on imports were relaxed to meet the requirements of priority mdu'-tries 
To provide an incentive for increased output and efficiency, production anrl price 


*Fiscal year 



347 2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA. SEP f FATHER g3, 19G7/ASVINA 1, 1889 [PA*r II- 


controls were removed in respect of certain industrial products and licensing 
requirements were relaxed In respect of several industries Controlled distriou- 
tion of items of mass consumption was extended and supplies were augmented 
through imports and procurement- Higher support prices were announced ror 
major agricultural commodities and price increases were permitted in respect 
of certain Industiial products whose cost'- had risen. 

Output. Prices and Price Policy 

8 The Increase in output in both agriculture and Industry was only of the 
order of .1 per cent m 1968-87, In agriculture, -Abe, Increase was not even enougn 
to make up for the decline of as much as 17pex cent in the previous 'year 
The output of foodgrams estimated at 76 million tonnes, though higher by 4 million 
tonne- than the output in 1985-68, was far below the level of 89 million tonnes 
in 1964-65- Amongst nen-food crops, only raw jute and mesta and groundnut 
showed some measure of improvement In raw cotton the output was only 
slightly higher than in the previous year while sugarcane output declined. Adverse 
weather conditions, which persisted over large parts of the country, were responsible 
for the inadequate performance of agriculture In some States like Rajasthan. 
Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh the rains failed for the second year in succession 
There was extensive damage to the kharif crops in Bihar and Eastern and Central 
U.P- Lack of rains in the winter months and unseasonal rains later affected 
the rabi crops also to some extent, 

8 The shortfalls in agricultural output resulted in shortages of raw materials, 
and, to the extent they co-uld not be made good by imports, tended to restrict 
production. Industries which use raw materials of agricultural origin like cotton 
texU’es, ]ute manufactures, sugar, tea and vanaspati registered declines ranging 
from 1 per cent to 19 per cent during the financial year- A section of capital 
goods Industries also recorded lower production owing to- some cuts in public 
sector investment outlays- Thi.4 group comprised railway wagon building, plit 
Iron castings and heavy structural?. The fall in the production of these industries 
in turn adverse^ affected the demand for intermediate products. There were, 
however, a number of industries which were ab'e to record higher average rates 
of growth- Important, amongst the.se are aluminium manufactures, petroleum 
products, radio receivers, fertilisers, electric cables and wires, cotton yarn, auto- 
mobiles, batteries and soap; of these the last six had. in fact, recorded declines 
In output last year. In the result, for the financial year 1966-67, industria pro- 
duction showed a growth rate of 2 3 per cent as compared with 5-4 cent in 1905416 
and 5-6 per cent in 1964-65- 

7. In recent months, several industries in the metallurgical and mglneerins 

group have encountered sizeable falls in demand, and this has resulted in cut- 
backs in production and labour lay-off-. In some industries, it would appear, 
capacity had grown faster than was warranted by the growth of demand in related 
sectors' A slowing down of the mfia' innary prt/ccss manifests itself nrrmally 
in recessionary conditions which can, *o an extent, be regarded as a corrective 

to the “over-heat mg" of the economy ear'ler. Even so, it Is necessary to guard 

against an m-t c-sivo swing of the rule in tlie downward direction. Moreover 
it’ has to be I opt in mmd that the situation in India has not been one merely of 
excess demand, a major aggravating factor has been the low aval' abilities on 
the supply side because of exceptionally adverse weather conditions. It Is, there- 
fore, part iculer’v important to ensure that the recessionary trends do not spread 
out of deepen too far so as tu endanger the longer-term prospects of investment 
and growth. 

8. Prices continued to rise at a high rate- During July 1960-June 1967, the.y 

wcorded an increase of 15-8 per cent as compared with an Increase of 18-3 per 

ont recorded in 1965-66- Almost nine-tenths of the rise In the general index in 

f)664>7 was accounted for by the food articles group, which increased by 27-9 

per cent. Industrial raw materla's and manufactures, on the other hand, showed 
much smaller price increases, viz ■ 1 * 6 per cent and 3 • 0 per cent, respectively- 
la 1985-66 the largest rise had been recorded by prices of industrial raw materials 
(28-8 per cent) loPowed by fend articles (19-5 per cent) and manufactures ()1-7 
pel cent). The Increase in the general price level had Its impact on the All-India 
consumer price Index for working class (base; 1949=100) which moved up by 
(2-2 per cent between July 1966 and June 1967. In 1965-66, the Index rose by 
13-5 per cent. 

9- All important items of food articles registered increases, the increase being 
more marked In rice (26 per cent), wheat (47 per cent), pulses (61 per cent) 
and gur (163 per cent). Among industrial raw materials, raw cotton recorded 
a rise of 17 per cent and oil-seeds of 9 per cent; prices of raw jute, on the other 



Srr. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA 1, 1889 3473 


hand, declined by 29 per cent, as against a rise of 45 per cent in 1965-66. Items 
of manufactures, which showed a marked rise in their prices were cotton and 
woollen textile (6 per cent), oilcakes (15 per cent), chemicals (9 per cent) and 
■eather (26 per rent)- Under the impact of declining raw jute prices, prices of 
jute manufactures fell sharply by 24 per cent in contrast to a rise of 22 per cent 
1.1 i960 66 . 

10 Remedial action to alleviate the! hardships to the consumers comprised 
oicgei imports, improvement of distribution facilities, increased reliance on the 
mice mechanism in suitable cases and a liberalisation of physical controls with 
a view to stimu'ating production Thus, imports of ioodgralns were stepped up 
Tom 7-5 million tonnes in 19&5— to a record level of 10-4 million tonnes during 
1906 During 1967, an Import programme of about 10 million tonnes is envisaged. 
Of this, 4:4 million tonnes were imported upto July 10, 1967 as compared with 
5*5 million tonnes imported in the corresponding period of 1966. Similarly, ar- 
rangements were made to import raw cotton, jute and vegetable oils. Procure- 
ment operations were intensified and there was a substantia 1 expansion of the 


areas of controlled distribution, The coverage of statutory and informal 
rationing was extended. The number of fair price and ration shops was increased. 
Also, some States fixed maximum wholesale and retail prices for rice and wheat. 
In regard to cottnn, mills were ordered not to keep more than two months’ 
stocks and to observe an extra holiday every week between December and April 
and later once every fortnight. Requisitioning of cotton was also resorted to. 
At the same time, arrangements were made for larger imports of raw cotton. 
Measures to ensure that other essential articles were made available to consumers 
at reasonable prices considered of informal arrangements with manufacturers of 
products hke soap, matches, baby food, bicycle tyres and tubes to enable regular 
flow of supplies at reasonable prices. 

11 . To stimulate production, guaranteed minimum support prices were levLsed 
upwards for wheat and gram for the 1966-67 season and enhanced minimum 
support prices for paddy (standard variety) and coarse cereals have been an- 
nounced for the 1967-68 kharif season. The minimum prices for sugarcane and 
for raw jute (Assam bottoms) for 1966-67 were increased v hi’e ceiling and floor 
prices for raw cotton were revised upwards. In the industrial sector, price 
me'-pEiies were granted to several industries which included cotton textiles, coal, 
sugar, iron and steel and automobiles and tracks. To facilitate larger output of 
essential items, the Import policy for components, raw materials and spare parts 
was liberalised in respect of 59 priority industries. 

12 . The policy of exempting Industries from the licensing provisions ot the 
Industrie'- (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951, initiated in May 1966, was 
extended f> 31 additional industries bringing the total of industries so far exempted 
to 42- Licensing requirements were also done awav with in respect of a'l industrial 
units It, tending to diversify production, manufacture new items and Step up output 
upto 25 ’-pr cent beyond Tcensed capacity provided no additional plant or machinery 
is 'use, I rtild no’ additional foreign exchange is needed. Spinning mills having 

1 stiir.J'L.' 1 unto 25 00U, new textile proper dng units and expansion of ex ’sting 
units - e a’an been exempted from licensing requirements- The policy of relaxing 
controls =■-. rvtlvelv was carried further during the year For the 1967-68 agri- 
cultural season, statutory Cf ntrj! <n 1 otton prices is to be remove 1 , while in the 
place of riatntorv floor prices, minimum suoport prices which are about 5 to 10 
per cent above the floor prices fur the 1966-67 season have been announced In 
the case cf sugar, the minimum orice of sugarcane has been raised from Rs. 2 12 
ti, ID 2 7,1 r”-’ mound for a recovery of 9 4 ppr cert or ’ess and the baric excise 
on fv^o’w sugar bus been reduced Sugar is pmpo’ed to be partially 
decon+T'oI'ed md an Incentive for higher production is to be given by wav of 
a rabate rt the r;.le of 50 per cent of basic excise duly for production in excess 
ck 60 per cent of that in the preceding season. The priro ard distribution err trait: 
on 3 I 1 categories id steel were removed, eflpchve May 1, 1967 wbi'e 'he scheme of 
decontrol of cement introduced in January 1966 was extended for another year.* 

* oerlod fm which special terms are offered to foreign private Investor-' fr 1 
setting up fertiliser units was a'so extended upto end-1967. 

Budgetary Operations 

1 The resources position of the Central and State Governments during the 
financial year 1966-67 was affected adversely by the deterioration in the economic 
situation Net revenue receipts of the Union Government were a litt'e lower than 
originally expected. There was a decline in small savings collections and the 
market borrowing programme was also smaller- Outlays, on the other hand, rose 
substantially, deEP’tel the economy measures undertaken, owing to increase in 
assistance to States for scarcity relleC, rise in food and ferti’Lser subsidies as 
a result cf higher rupee costs of Imports following devaluation and larger imports 


•In July 1967, price and distribution controls on all categories of coal, (except 
distribution control on cooking coal required by metallurgical consumers, e^g., 
steel plants) have been removed. 



3474 THE GAZET1 E or INDIA: SEP 1 EMBER ”3, 1907/ASVlNA 1, 1889 [Taxi II- 


of these itcrtis, the Increase in dearness allowance following higher prices, increased 
outlays on agricultural schemes in order to step up food production and additional 
liabilities arising from unauthorised overdrafts by the States. The net result 
was that as against an overall deficit of Rs 32 crores anticipated m tho Centre's 
budget, revised estimates show a deficit cf as much as Rs. 813 crores- The 
resources position of the States was also subject to similar strains Though in 
Iheir budgets lor 196G-07, the States had provided for smaller outlays, they had 
to Incur sizable additional expenditures on account of increases in dearness 
allowance following the rise in the cost of living and relief measures which 
became necessary in the wake of the drought and the difficult iood situation. 
At the same time, they experienced shortfalls in 'revenue, particularly land rvenue. 
During the year, some of the States continued to run unauthorised overdrafts 
with the Reserve Bank, and the Centre had to make additional funds available 
for clearing them- The total amount of such assistance granted by the Central 
Government to the States during the financial year ending March 19(17 amounted 
to Rs. 108 crores- Towards th e end of I960 the Reserve Bank informed Lhc Slates, 
with the approval q! the Central Government, that in c j ,tn unaut’’ ji od ov re- 
draft persisted for a period of one week or more, the Bank would m future, 
issue a notice to the State Government calling upon it to take steps to eliminate 
the overdraft within a period of three weeks, failing which II would be open 
to the Bank to stop payments on account of the State. Simultaneously, the 1 mits 
for the grant of clean and secured ways and means advances by the Reserve Bank 
were suitably increased to provide for greater assistance to the State Governments 
for temporary periods The new limits as well as the procedure lor dealing 
w,lth unauthorised overdrafts beyond these limits were brought into i-rcc with 
filed from March 1, 1967- 

14. Recognising the inflationary impact of the budgetary deficits on the economy 
and the psychology of inflation nourished by the continuance of such deficits, the 
budget of the Union Government for 1967-68 reiterates the need for fiscal discipline 
and seeks to restrict outlays to the resources that could be mobilised in a non- 
inflationary manner- The estimated aggregate expenditure of the Centre during 
19(17-68 at Rs 4993 crores Is lower by about Rs. 336 crores than the revised 
estimates for 1966-67- The new tax proposals as originally presented weie 
designed to- provide the' Central Government, after allowing for Slates' shaie. 
Rs- 81 crores In a full year and about Rs- 68 crores in the current year, which 
together with additional revenue expected in the current year from revision of 
postal rates would have been adequate to offset the deficit of Rs. 68 crores. The 
yield from the new tax measures will, however, be smaller by Rs. 15-4 ciorcs 
in a full year and by Rs- 11-5 crores in the current year as a result of the con- 
cession subsequently announced- 

15- In the case of State Governments, the final budgets for 19G7-C-! show a 
considerable widening of their deficits owing mainly to a substantial rise in 
expenditure. The aggregate deficit before new taxation works out to Rs. 150 
crores- So far, eleven States have proposed additional taxation measures estimated 
to yield Rs- 28 crores which would only partly cover their deficit totalling Rs- 55 
crores- Proposals for additional taxation are under consideration by some of 
the remaining States also. On the other hand, a number of States have announced 
concessions in land revenue and similar steps are being contemplated by some 
others. Already during the first quarter of the current financial year, assistance 
had to be given by the Centre to some States amounting to Rs 32-71 crores to 
clear their overdrafts by end-June 1967- There is lately some evidence that the 
States have taken action to avoid recourse to unauthorised borrowing from the 
Reserve Bank. The situation in some States is, however, one of inadequate re- 
sources relatively to the projected expenditures. There is, therefore, urgent need 
for further effort on their part to mobilise additional resources and to exercise the 
utmost economy in expenditure so as to avoid unauthorised recourse to the 
Reserve Bank. 

16. The tax proposals of the Union Government for 1967-63 which are essentially 
made to avoid deficit, also attempt to provide relief in deserving cases, to promot# 
savings and investment and to stimulate exports. In respect of personal incomes, 
a new allowance for maintenance of dependent parents or grandparents has been 
provided, subject to certain conditions. Certain provisions of the Annuity Depcsit 
-Scheme have also been liberalised- To encourage contractual and other small 
savings, the limit of contribution to the various tax-free media of savings has 
been raised. With a view to encouraging Investments, the ceiling limit of unearned 
income for purposes of surcharge has been raised while dividend incomes of Rs. 500 
and below are allowed as a deduction from taxable income. As regards corporate 
taxation, undertakings whoso profitability is usually low in the initial years are 



Me. 3(ii)] I HI' GX/tllE OI- IMRV. St PI EMBER 23, 1967/ASVIN \ J , I SS9 34-75 


allowed lu tarry !< l'ward the unabsorbed benefits of tux-holiday for eight years 
lroiu 1hi fumimwinent of business. To provide incentives lor the growth and 
devoioUiiiem oi ,m-.11 a.al medium-jcale industries, the income limit lor ron 'ersionaJ 
rule of 'n\ has been doubled. The development rebate at the priority rate, as 
against too existing genera 1 rate, is now allowed, with a view to promoting 
i-eientiiii iP-.eunv m the country On the othci hand, excise duties have been 
raised to rrtu.ii domestic consumption and to augment exports, to mop^ up 
high profits and to allow some increase 111 prices in socially desirable directions. 
With a view to correcting the adverse trends in exports duties were reduced in 
itspect oi inte manufactures, tea." manganese ore and iron ore- 

17 Tin mobile ation of resoutc "s through inatket borrowings and small savings 
in liRjri-Oi was .somewhat smaller than anticipated Borrowings from the market 
bv the Union Government wore lor a total gross -u.n oi Its 275 crimes as against 
Ho 23b crorp'. envisaged in the budget estimate for 1986-67. Two cash-cum- 
conversiou iunn.-,, viz. a 5-year 4.) per cent Loan 1971 (Re-issue) and a 25-year 
5. 1 per , t-ni Loan 1981 were floated in July 1966. The State Governments floated 
loans in September 1986 tor an aggregate sum of Rs 9.1-50 ciore 3 at yields ranging 
from 5 lit per cent to 5 73 per cent The subscriptions to these leans amounted to 
F.s. J3.4 crores of which Rs. 97 5 crores were retained- The net market borrowings 
‘iy the LI ntre and the States worked out to Rs 176 7 crores and were smaller than in 
1985-88 (Rs 210.8 crores). Consequently, the gilt-edged prices by and large held 
their levels. In contract to a decline of 1:5 per cent in 1965-66, the all-India index of 
Government and semi-government securities rose fractionally (0.7 per cent) over the 
year. During the year, Reserve Bank’s open market operations resulted in larger 
net sales of Rs. 53 crores (excluding purchases from the State Bank of India on 
account of P.L. 430 and P.L, 665 funds) than in 1965-66 (Rs. 42.3 crores). 

18. There was a sizable decline in net collections oi small savings which 
aggregated Rs. 126.8 crores in the financial year 1966-67 compared with Rs. 151 
'.Tores in 1965 06 Almost the whole of the decline was in respect of po-st-office 
savings bank deposits. This was partly the result of lower collections by way 
of motor-scooter deposits and partly due to sizable withdrawals. 

19 The difficult economic situation hart its impart on the Investment programme 
In the public sector under the Fourth Five-Year Plan The proposed, Plan outlay 
for 1 967-63- -the second vear of the Fourth Plan, at Rs. 2,246 crores is only 
marginally higher, in financial terms, than that in the first year (Rs. 2,221 ciores). 
The outlays bv the Centre, Union Territories and the States are estimated at 
Rs. 1,172 crores, Rs 64 crores and Rs- 1,610 crores, respectively. The corres- 
ponding figures for 1966-67 were Rs 1.148 crores, Rs- 64 crores and Rs. 1,009 
crores. respectively- The resources for these outlays reckoned at Rs. 2,192 erorfes 
fall short by Rs 54 crores; the shortfall is entirely in the States. The total Plan 
outlay uuyi’ng the first two years of the Plan would thus amount lo Rs. 4,467 
crores. as against the total of Rs 16 000 crores envisaged for the period cf the 
Fourth Plan 

The Corporate Sector 

20 The difficulties which the private corporate sector has been experiencing 
for the past few years in raising adequate resources from the open market, 
particularly risk capital, increased during the year under review- The persistent 
rise in prices and the diversion oi available savings into appreciating assets like 
leal estate, precious metals, etc. reduced the flow of fresh funds to the new issue 
market. At the same time, there was an increase in capital costs of projects 
following devaluation of the rupee. Consequently, the new issue activity and the 
activity on the stock market were at very low- levels and the corporate sector 
had to rely heavily on the financial institutions for loan assistance and under- 
writing support. Reflecting these trends, the Reserve Bank’s Index of variable 
dividend industrial securities (base : 1961-62—100) declined from 81 at the end of 
June 1966 to 77 1 bv mid September and after moving up to 84.4 by about mid- 
Februnry 1967, declined again to 77 7 at the end of June 1967 Over the year, 
there was a net decline of 4-1 per cent In 1965-66, the Index showed no" net 
change- 

21. A comparative assessment ol the trend in consents lor capital issues for 
the full year under review relative to the previous year is not possible since with 
the abolition of capital issues control for certain categories, of companies in 
November 196G, data relating to consents, which indicate investment intentions, 
are not complete. Comparing the position for the calendar year 1966 with that 
lor 1965. consents for capital issues, particularly equity issues in 1966, were 
considerably lower than In 1965 Consents for issue of shares (other than bonus 



3476 THK GAZETTE oi- INDIA. SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA 1 , 1889 [Part 11- 


and miscellaneous issues) and debentures amounted to Rs- 66 erores in 1966 
compared with Rs 86 erores in 1965- Consents lor bonus issues, on the other 
hand, amounted to Rs. 147 erores In 1966, compared with Rs- 5 erores in 1S65 — 
the phenomenal rise in these issues in li)6G resulting from the abolition of the 
bonus issues tax announced in the budget for 1H6G-67- Security-wise, consents 
for equity issues declined from Rs. 53 erores in 1965 to Rs. 42 erores in 1966 and 
those for debentures and preference shares declined frurn Rs. 21 erores and 
Rs- 12 erores, respectively, In 1965 to Rs. 18 erores and Rs. G erores, in 1966. 

22. Despite the relaxation in the licensing control under the Indust] Ls Act 
and a substantial liberalisation of the control, over capital issues, the capital 
market throughout the year remained apathetic- Almost all new issues had ro 
rely heavily on institutional support in the shape of contributions to securities 
issued. 

29- The operations of term-lending institutions were at a lower level in L96G-67 
than in the preceding year. This was partly the result of a reassessment of 
project costs following devaluation and the consequent increa r e in the cost of 
imports of capital goods, raw materia s, spares and components, which delayed 
the consideration of applications- Besides, the continuing underwriting support, 
and the consequent locking up oi funds limited the scope for consideration of 
further applications. Aggregate financial assistance @ sanctioned by them by 
way of loans, underwriting and direct subscription to shares and debemurea was 
substantially lower at Rs 127 erores in 196G-67 (April-March) as against Rs 164 
crorss in 1965-66 (April-March). Disbursements were, however, higher at Rs. 124 
erores as against Rs. 107 erores in the previous year, Loans sanctioned by the 
IDBI were marginally lower at Rs. 55 erores in 1966-67 as against Rs. 56 erores 
in 1965-66, but disbursements rose from Rs- 33 erores to Rs. 43 crqres. The IDBI 
scheme of rediscounting of bills was liberalised during the year with a view to 
providing assistance to a larger number of industrial concerns. Besides these 
terms-lending institutions, the Unit Trust of India and the Life Insurance Corpo- 
ration of India continued to provide substantial funds to the private corporal? 
sector through their underwriting and investment operations. The increase in- 
investments by the Unit Trust of India amounted to nearly Rs- 6 erores in 1966-67 
as compared with Rs 1 ernre in 1965-66- This was made possible by the im- 

siderable improvement in the sales of units by the Trust. The gross sa = .; oi 

units by the Unit Trust of Ind 1 a during 19GG-G7 amounted to Rs. 9 erores as 
cn npared with Rs. 2 erores in 1965-68- The figures for net sales, that is, gross 

s-l's less repurchases, for the two years were Rs. 7 erores and Rs. 1 crore, 

respectively- The investments in shares and debentures by the Life In -urance 
Corporation increased from Rs. 159 erores in March 1965 to Rs 1C3 erores in , 
March 1966- The small-scale industrial sector continued to receive substantial 
assistance through the Government of India’s Credit Guarantee Scheme, which 
was libera jsed during the year and through the various schemes of assistance 
operated by the State Bank of India and its subsidiaries. 

Money, Credit and Credit Policy 

24 Money supply continued to expand though at a considerably slower rate 
In abso ute terms money supp’v increased by Rs. 307 erores during the year 
under review as against Rs 445 erores in the preceding year The inrunl raU s 
of expansion were 6 6 per cent and 10.5 per cent, respectively- Beth deposit 
money and currency with the public recorded smaller increases than tr 11’ 61-66, 
the increase in the former at Rs. 14 1 erores was less than In the previous year 
by Rs- 91 erores, while currency with the public rose by Rs 166 crore.5 or Rs. 4* 
erores leu than the increase in 1465-66 Total monetary resources (i-e- money 
suup’y wdh the pubic plus time deposits with banks) increased by Bo ,2c cure, 
or by 8,2 per cent as against Rs. 668 erores or by 11.3 per cent last year. The 
rate of monetary expansion was in excess ot the growth in real proihut, and 
the slowing down of the rate of expansion of monetary demand brought no relief 
to the price situation — in fact, prices rose during the year only at a slightly lour; 
rate than in 1965-66- 

23. Extension of bank credit to both) the public and private sectors was 
responsible for the monetary expansion- The Government’s net indebtedness to 
the banking system recorded, Jiowever, an appreciably smaller increase during 
the year As Rs 187 erores the Increase was less than one-third of the increase 
in the previous year (Rs. 634 erores) (a) (b). The Reserve Bank’s credit to 
Government sector declined steeply from Rs- 410 erores to Rs- 193 erores and 
that by other banks showed a contraction of Rs. LI erores In contrast to an 
expansion of Rs, 224 erores (a) in the preceding year. The increase in net bank 

@ The institutions included are the IDBI, IFC, ICICI, SFCs and SIDCs. In- 
order to make figures comparable, assistance in foreign currencies has been 
calculated at post-devaluation value in both the years, 

(а) Adjusted for P.L, 480 and P.L. 665 deposits with banks in India other 
than the Reserve Bank of India. 

(б) Excluding the effect of revaluation of certain assets of the Reserve Bank 

-•* * the devaluation of the rupee. 



Sec. S(u)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA 1, 1889 3477 


"redlt to the private sector, on the other hand, was considerably higher at Rs 151 
crores as against only Rs. 16 crores (a) In the previous year. The increase in 
foreign exchange assets (net) held by the Reserve Bank of Rs. 22 crores 
(as against a fall of Rs- 64 crores (b) last year) also contributed to the 
expansion in money supply. The combined expansionary impact of these factors 
on mono} supply was partially oilset by the Increase of Rs. 71 crores (Rs. 160 
crores last year) In net non-monetary liabilities of the banking system. Money 
supply with the pub ic showed a much larger contraction in the 1966 slack season 
(Rs. 126 crores) than in the slack season of 1965 (Rs. 43 crores). This was 
followed by a smaller expansion of- Rs. 469 crores during the 1966-67 busy season 
char, m the busy season of 1963-66 (Rs- 482 crores) 

26 Faster rate of credit expansion accompanied by a slower pace of deposit 
growth was the main feature of the credit situation during the year- Consequently, 
the I quidity pn'it'on of banks was under some pressure as was reflected in the 
credit-deposit ratio which moved up, over the year, from 72.9 per cent to 74.9 
per cent Credit expansion amo ntmg to Rs 332 crores (or 14.4 per cent) during 
the year was larger than in 1965-66 (Rs, 226 crores or 10.9 per cent) . Scheduled 
commercial banks’ deposits,- on the other hand, rose by Rs- 358 crores (or 11.4 
per cer.t) compared with Rs, 462 crores @ or 17 '1 per cent in 1965-66. 

j 1 . For quite sometime now, the banking system has been under pressure to 
expand credit beyond its resources The working capital needs of industry have 
gone up because of the rising costs of raw materials and labour and the drying 
up of the capital market has aggravated the situation of credit shortage- In 
this background and in view at the same time of the pervasive character of 
inflationary pressures in the economy, credit policy has sought to balance the 
claims of credit expansion with the overall availability of savings in the economy- 
The accent of monetary policy has necessarily had to be on restraining any aggra- 
vation of inflationary pressures by keeping to the minimum In extent and duration. 
Centra 1 Bank credit to commercial banks. At the same time, in operating its policy 
the Reserve Bank has been mindful of the need to finance genuine productive activity 
for ultimately it is the increase in production as much as The restraint in aggregate 
demand which would correct the inflationary situation. This has called for efforts 
at a better distribution of credit in line with set priorities. It is In this sense that 
the employment of selective credit controls has to be viewed. As they have rperated 
in this country, these controls have tried to limit the expansion of bank credit 
against certain commodities which are either essential items of consumption or raw 
material for industry and which are in short supply and in which speculative 
activity has been In evidence. Increasingly, however the scope of selective controls 
is being widened so as to operate in the more positive direction of enlarging the 
flow of credit to essential sectors through a system of preferential rediscounts. 

28. It the slack season of 1966, the hanks were asked to strive for the return 
flow of credit extended in the 1965-66 busy season. The announcement of devalua- 
tion necessitated a fresh review of the policy for the 1966 slack season because of 
the apprehensions of strain on banks’ liquidity. At the discussions with the banks 
and industry it was indicated bv the Reserve Bank that the llnuidily position of 
banks would improve rather than experience any pressure, because of larger 
deposit accretion and that in fact this strengthened the need for mopping up 
excess liquidity arising m the bankin? system. Further, the demand for credit 
was expected to show a sharp increase in the 1966-67 busy season due to libera- 
lisation of import licensing and higher rupee cost following devaluation. The 
banks were, therefore, called noon to bring about a reduction in credit In the 
1966 s’ack season and also to Invest the entire increase in the deposit resources 
during the slack season in Government securities so that they would be In a 
position to finance n large proportion of credit expansion in the following busy 
sea: on, from them own resources- At the same time it was indicated to the 
banks that the Bank would supplement their resources at the Bank rate to meet 
the demands of priority sectors in the busy season, provided the banks themselves 
utilised to the maximum their own resources to finance those sectors- Though 
the general tenor of policy wns one of credit restraint in the slack season, to 
provide for the oosslbt’ity of increase in bank advances for financing Government 
procurement and allied c*perations the Bdl Market Scheme was kept open for 
this special purpose beyond June 30. Selective control continued to operate in 
the form of prescription of, ceilingp and/or minimum margins in respect of 
advances against commodities in short supply such as foodgrafns, oilseeds, sugar, 
raw cotton and kapas, 

29- Over ttm slack season of 1966, bank credit contracted by Rs. 86 crores 
compared with Rs. 93 crores in the 1965 slack season. On the other hand, the 
growth in deposits at Rs- 265 crores was substantially higher than the increase 


@ Adjusted for Rs. 21 crores transfer of P.L. 480 funds. 



3478 THE GA7E1IE OF INDIA: Sbl' 1 1- MJJl'R 73 , I'K.7/ \SVIN V I, 1889 [Pain II- 


(Rb 178 crores) in the 19(35 slack season- In line with the advice of the Reserve 
Bank, the hanks increased their investments in Government securities by Ks 298 
crores helping thereby to raise the investment deposit ratio by ri 9 percentage 
poults to 3L 3 per cent over the season us against 3-2 percentage points over the 
1985 slack season. With this large rise in investments, the combined net liquidity 
rati 5 o J scheduled commercial banks improved by end-Oetober ldoli lu 9 3 per 
cent us against 38-1 per cent at the end ui the 19(35 slack season. 

30- Notwithstanding this, it was felt that banks on their own might r< l b e 
in a position to meet the* requirements arising irom t xpectutions ul agrlcuitui al 
recovery and larger quantum of imports following import liberalisation In for- 
mulating credit policy for the busy season of 1466-67, therefore, the Bank announced 
an enhancement of its accommodation at Bank rate to the commercial banks 
to finance the seasonal expansion. Banks were given an additional refinance facility 
at Bank rate for an amount equivalent to 10 per cent of their actual ret liquidity 
ratios as at the end of the 19(!G slack season- This facility was avui'uDle to u'l 
banks, irrespective of the level of their net liquidity' ratios, so tint every bank 
would have some volume off Bank rats refinance even if its net liquidity ratio 
dipped below 30 per cent. In addition, any excess over October 28, I960 let el of 
a bank's advances to State Governments and approved agencies for food procure- 
ment and allied activities was also made eligible for refinance at the Bank rate- 
While there was thus an enlargement of refinance available at Bank rate in 
order to prevent any excessive credit expansion there was provision for the levy 
of a penal rate of 10 per cent for borrowings in excess of the amounts that 
could be borrowed at Bank rate in terms of the new policy; the Bank also 
retained the discretion of charging higher deterrent penalty rate if such excess 
borrowings were either continuous or large This penalty rate, however, was 
to be made applicable only to excess borrowings over what the banks, were 
entitled to at the Bank rate- A corollary to the liberalisation of refinance facilities 
was the step taken to cjirect the additional credit flow into priority sectors of the 
economy- Accordingly, a directive was issued to larger Indian and all foieign 
commercial banks that not less than 80 per cent of their seasonal credit expansion 
should be made to Industry (which was defined fairly widely) and against export/ 
import bills. 

81. In order to' Impart some flexibility to the deposit rates without disturbing 
the ba'-ic policy in this respect, the minimum rates prescribed by it in February 
1965 on bank deposits for 3 and 6 months were rescinded, while "enlinuing the 
minimum prescribed for deposits for one year and for savings bank deposits. 

32- The increase in credit during the 1966-67 busy season at Rs. 423 crores 
was much larger than in the 1965-66 season (Rs. 310 crores). On the other hand, 
deposit growth at Rs- 168 crores was less than in the 1966-66 season (Rs. 235 
crores alter adjusting P.L. 480 transfers of Rs. 21 crores). The higher volume 
of credit was financed by banks mainly by drawing down their investments and 
by recourse to borrowings from the Reserve Bank- Liquidation of investments in 
Government sacuriti.es amounted to Rs 198 rrores (Rs. 27 crores In 1965-66). 
Banks’ borrowings from the Reserve Bank were also larger by Rs. 41 crores 
(Rs, 28 crores in 1965-66) this busy season. At their peak, borrowings from the 
Reserve Bank in the 1966-67 season touched Rs. 140 crores on March 31, 1967 
compared with Rs. 107 crores on March 11, 1966. The liberalisation of credit 
is reflected in that though the peak borrowing was .substantially higher, the highest 
point reached for the weighted average rate paid on borrowings was lower at 
6,6 per cent (for the week ended March 17, 1967) compared with 7.5 per cent 
in the previous year (lor the week ended April 1, 1966). The rising demand for 
funds was reflected in the progressive hardening of call money rates during the 
1966-67 busy season, particularly in the month of March. The highest rates were 
recorded at Bombay during the week ended March 31 (12.0 per cent) and at 
Calcutta during the week ended March 24 (13.2 per cent). 

33. Though the seasonal credit expansion was less thap had originally been 
anticipated, in the light ot the downward adjustment of production and import 
estimates, the pace of credit growth turned out to be more than was warranted 
by the supply situation. In particular, the sizeable expansion in clean advances 
by February 1967 emphasised the need to control the direction as well as the 
Volume of bank credit. Banks were, therefore, cautioned in March 1967 to 
regulate their credit expansion In accordance with the directive regarding credit 
distribution between industry, import and export sectors, on the ore hand, and 
other activities, on the other and to exercise control over clean advances and 
against commodities in short supply- However, on representations made to the 
Bank that many banks had frozen the limits granted to trade customers, with a 
view to complying with the directive of the Bank, they were advised to effect 



iu. 3(h)] THE (.A/FI'TE OI 1NDI\ . SkPTFMllFK 23, 1967/AXVINA 1, 1889 3479 


u p: -Tentage rerluction in sanctioned limits so ns to avoid undue dislocation of 
activity. The Bank also sounded another cautionary note to mitigate the possibility 
of banks borrowing more than their Bank rate entitlement. It was made clear 
that tne penalty rate o7 10 per cent would be levied even on small and occasional 
excess borrowings from the Bank and further that while the penal rate of 10 
per cent would apply to small excess borrowings upto one week, for any continuous 
excess beyond a week, the penal rate would rise by 1 per cent per annum, In 
respect of the short-fall of every one point or a fraction thereof in a bank’s net 
liquidity ratio below 80 per cent- 

34. Tr reinforce general credit control measures, selective credit controls were 
also moditled towards the close of the busy season. Advances to mills and tiade 
against cotton and kapas - were restricted beginning from April-May 1907 to 85 
per cenL of the average level in each two-month period of the earlier year and 
only cnch storks as were covered by permits for purchase/movement issued b.y 
the Textile Commissioner were eligible ior such advances*- Exportable varieties 
of indigenous cotton were, however, exempted from these restrictions. In regard 
to advances against paddy and rice to parties other than official agencies, banks 
were asked to maintain, in each two-month period beginning March/ April 1967, 
an average aggregate level of credit which shou’d not exceed 55 per cent m 
Andhra Pradesh, ,i0 per cent hi Maharashtra and 65 per cent in all other States 
taken together oi the level of such credit maintained during the corresponding 
period of 1904-65 (March 1964 — February 1965V 

33. In anticipation of the continuance o( demand for credit even beyond the 
conventional end of the busy season (owing mainly to larger requirements of 
import financing ), the commercial banks were advised to meet the demand for 
credit and in ord. r fn inable them to Overcome the difficulties they might en- 
counter m do in x j, tile lacilltv of the additional Bank rate tranche was continued 
until June 30, 1367 i.e. until the date the Bill Market Scheme itself was kept 
onrn. Bank 1 were al > advised to utilise their deposit acretion for meeting 
t .-MpnticU ircdi. needs such as Import Unarming, ior repp.wnent of borrowings 
from in ■ Reserve Bank end for bul'dmg up their investment portfolio during the 
slaci< season oi 1967. At the same time, it was emphasised that banks should 
keep luder strut contra, their advances against domest.c commodities in short 
supply, as well a . their unsecured advances. 

•16. In the urnt two rr. mths a( the ciurcnt slack se-mon, credit contraction 
amouiuM to R 43 crime . js eompaiecl with Rs- 35 eror?v in the corresponding 
period u( I960, but the rletusil growth was smaller, being Rs. 46 rrorcs compared 
with Rs, 12(1 cro: . On present indications, it is expected that seasonal eontiaction 
in credit would be somewhat larger than in 1906, but at the same lime the addition 
to deposes ma\ l-w much lower in view, among other things, of the Central Gov- 
ernment decioUi” to avoid deficit financing in the currtut linaneijl year- 'J he 
attempt m Ici'iii luting anrl i.nplem.nting credit policy ha- thus Leon cout'iiuall.v 
to hiiunc': tiit' r aims of crcd’t expansion against the overall availabi ilv r ol 
savincs au>i 11 is iri th's c mtext that the techniques of regulating the quantum 
and duration ot Re i er\ e Bank credit to commercial banks and of seeking a better 
distribution ot b mk credit in line with the accepted prior t ; .; have to be viewed 
Balance of Payments 

37 The external payments situation during the year showed a sharp deterio- 
ration. This was dim mainlv to difficulties rtca'cd by the poor p-’rformance in 
agriculture wluh ted coed cvpori availabiiilies of important agriculture-based 
exports and necessitated at the xunr time 'arse imports oi food grains and raw 
materia 1 :, to make good the domestic shortages In addition, there were difficulties 
of a transitional naluie l'or a brief period after devaluation in getting trade and 
payment: adjusted to the new situation arising therefrom. 

28- The foreign exchange reserves were drawn 'down over the year 1966-67 
by $ 159 million after meeting a repurchase obligation of $ 57.5 million from 
the International Moneta y Fund. In the pievicus accounting year, the reserves 
had shown a rise of $ 255 million; but this included a net drawing of $ 200 
million from the I.M.F. and a payment of $37.5 million to the I.M.F. in February 
1966 rn warns the additional gold subscription. If thora transactions with rbc 
I.M F. are excluded, the draft on reserves during 1906-67 would amount to $102 
million in contrast with an addition to reserves of $ 93 million in 1965-66, The 
adverse swing of $195 million in reserves (excluding transactions with the 
IM.F.) over the year was the < ombinod result of a significant drop in exports, 
larger outgo by way of interest and amortisation payments on foreign loans and 
smaller inflow of foreign aid. 

*The minimum margin of 50 per cent on such advances imposed on August 5, 
1965 was discontinued. 



3480 I he GA/tl-IE OF INDIA • 5EPTEMBFR 23, 1967/ASVINA 1 , 1889 [T ART ll- 


39. The pause in aid authorisations following the outbreak of hostilities with 
Pakistan in September 1965 slackened the utilisation of aid; the magnitude of 
aid utilised (gross) which had risen continuously during the Third Plan from 
$711 million in 1961-62 (Apnl-Mareh) to $1,621 million in 1965-66 came 
down rather sharply to $ 1,474 million in 1966-67 (April-Marcb). At the same 
time, debt service charges (interest and amortisation payments) which had risen, 
following the increasing resort to external assistance from $ 191 million in 
1961-62 to $316 million in 1965-66, moved up further to $369 million in 1966-67, 
In the result, the net inflow of aid which had shown a striking advance during 
the Third Plan from $ 520 million to $ 1,305 million, fell by $ 200 million to 
$ 1,105 million in the first year of the Fourth Plan- There was, however, a 
substantial increase in the authorisations of fresh aid during the year. The 
pledges of $ 900 million in the form of non-project assistance together with larger 
authorisations from non-Consortium countries resulted in a significant step-up 
in fresh authorisations of aid from $ 1,362 million in 1965-66 to $ 2,082 million in 
1966-67. 

40 As regards details of foreign trade transactions, data are available from 
the v ustoms record for the period June 1966-May 1967- During this period exports 
at $ 1520 million were $189 mil’ ion or 11 per cent below the previous year’s. 
A nu nurr of factors were responsible for this decline- Continued drought reduced 
the export availabilities of commodities such as jute and tobacco- In Items such 
as sugar, tea, coffee, oilcakes and manganese ore a decline In international prices 
adversely affected export realisations. In the earlier months after devaluation 
there was a dislocation of trade with the rupee trade area pending re-negotiation 
of bilateral trade agreements on the basis of the revised par value of the rupee- 
Further, as regards exports to other countries, there was a certain amount of 
postponement of purchases by foreign importers and sales by Indian exporters in 
anticipation of a reduction in export duties or increase in export assistance. 

41. Almost all commodities recorded declines, with notable exceptions of leather, 
hides and skins, iron ore, iron and steel and cashew kernels. The bulk of the 
decline was on account of a few maior items, viz., jute manufactures, tea, cotton 
textiles and tobacco unmanufactured. Export earnings from tea were, to some 
extent, adversely affected by the weakness in international demand, while the 
faU or nearly 16 per cent in exports of jute manufactures was partly due to the 
fibre shortage resulting from two successive short crops and intense competition 
from Pakistan- The sharp contraction in the value of exports of tobacco vn- 
rn'w’i’neiured to almost two-thirds the level ot the previnns year nas mainly 
linked to a short -fall in production combined with poor offtake by the U S.S.R. 
in vH°w of a good crop In that country. High prices of ertton manufactures, 
resulting from a rise in the prices of indigenous and impotted raw cnlton. affected 
cotton textile exports adversely. 

42 VI ith the initial difficulties of the post-devaluation period overcome and 
with the adjustments apd reductions that have been made in export duties cn 
tea, jute manufacturers, iron ore, manganese ore, raw wool, and raw cotton, an 
improvement in export trends could be expected in the coming months. Three 
main items, viz., jute manufactures, tea and tobacco unmanufactured which regis- 
tered ■< sharp decline after devaluation can be expected to ’how an improvement 
In 1967-68. The prospects of a good jute crop in 1967-68 coupled with the recent 
export duly reductions should enable the Industry to improve Its export perfor- 
mance. Tea shipments in recent months have been fairly encouraging and if 
International price and demand continue at current levels, tea exports are expected 
to show an improvement. The tobacco crop is also reportedly good and inter- 
national prices have been firm. A recovery in unmanufactured tobacco exports 
can thus be expected. 

43- The import liberalisation initiated after the devaluation of the rupee in 
June 1966. with the help of non-proiect aid from Consortium countries, was 
continued further during the year. The basic aim of the import policy was to 
provide imported raw materials, components and spares so as to sustain highrr 
production levels in export-oriented and other essential Industries While the 
import requirements of 59 priority industries were liberalised in June 1966. under 
-the imoort policy for 1907-68 announced in May 1967. licensing for the pilmity 
industries was further simplified and an element of continuity introduced by 
enabling units in the priority sectors to obtain further licences as and when 
neoes s a r v A special scheme for registered exporters was introduced in Align'd 
I960 to enable manufacturer exporters to replenish the import content in terms 
of raw materials, components and spares against the exports of specified products. 
Notwithstanding the liherahsatinn of imports, further progress was made in restric- 
ting imports of less essential items and items which are now indigenously produced 



Skc. 3(1'0J the GAZE'l TE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23. 19G7/ASVINA 1 , 1B89 3481 


44- Although import licences issued i;i the period subsequent to devaluation 

were much higher than in the previous year, total imports (according to Customs 
data) during June 1966-May 1167 at $2,625 million were $ 387 million or 

about 13 per cent lower as compared with the previous year. Excluding cereals, 
fertiliser?, other chemicals, raw cotton and raw jute, imports of ail major items 
showed sizeable decline The decline in imports in the post-devaluation period 

<s accounted for by a number of factors. First, there is normally a considerable 
lap. between the issue of an import licence and its actual uti l&ution; thus the level 
of impi rts in the post-devaluatiorr'twelve months reflects the strict import policy 
pursued In 1965-66 rather than th? eilects of the recent liberalisation. Secondly, 
the liberalisation resulted in a virtual disappearance of premia on import licences 
and with Ihe simplification in procedure, the need for excessive inventories was 
obviated- Thirdly, the higher costs of imports consequent to devaluation neces- 
sitated a reassessment of production plans based on imported inputs- _ Fourthly, 
ihe rp"''ssionary conditions in some industries were reflected in a decline in th* 
demand for imported inputs. 

.Assessment and IToPscets 

45- The review of the economic situation in 1966-67 attempted in the foregoing 
paragraphs brings out clearly the persistence of serious imbalances in the econonyy, 
both internal and external, which have been further aggravated by the lailure 
of monsoons for the second year in succession- The shortfall in agricultural 
output has given a further Impetus to the upward trend in prices- It has also 
Adversely affected some of our key exports, raw material supplies for which were 
greatly reduced. At the same time, it has dampened the demand in certain respects 
The steady increase in the price of foodgrains and the impoverishment of the 
agrarian economy in parts of the country afflicted bv the drought have caused 
11 fall in the demand for certain consumer goods like textiles, and for goods’ 
transport services- These trends have also reacted adversely on the capacity 
of the community to save 

46. While a good monsoon this year can make all the difference between a 
reasonably satisfactory ecoromte situation and acute privation, it must be stressed 
Vhat the imba ances in the econonjy that have persisted for several years now 
can be rectified only through sustained effort over a number cf years- The bask: 
problem is not only th e restoration of stability but the imparting of strength to 
ihe economy for the larger effort that is neeued, both on domestic investment 
and on exports- Thus, the food problem, the problem of price rises, the difficulties 
caused by the recession and the paramount need to secure larger foreign exchange 
aarnings cannot be viewed in Isolation from one another; they have to be con- 
sidered together In the context both of the short-term and the long-term needs 
if the economy- This Is why in adapting fiscal, monetary and investment po'icies 
to the needs of the immediate future, it Ls essential continuously to keep In mind 
Ihe longer-term objective of creating an environment for all-round and orderly 
* conomlc growth. 

47. The continuing upward trend in prices makes it essential in the immediate 
luturp to concentrate on the ways and means of securing price stability — and. 
Indeed, of some price reduction In respect of the basic items that enter into the 
cost of living. This problem has to be tackled partly from the supply side and 
lijnrtlv from the demand side. As to the latter, the decline In fixed investment, 
ll»oth public and private, that has been noted earlier, a’ffiough disturbing from a 
long-term point of view, should tend to reduce the pressure on rrlres. On the 
either hana some Investment in buffer stocks especially of foodgrains, together 
with provision of the necessary bank finance would be desirable despite the 
urgency of securing a fall In prices as early as possible. The demand for con- 
numption goods/ in the coming year cannot but have an upward trend since 
11 ration a! income and consumption in per capita terms have been relatively low 
to the last few veard because of the stagnancy of agricultural output. The policy 
ol avoiding deficit financing enunciated by the Government of India 
would mean that bv and large the imnacl of budgetary operations on 
the volume of aggregate demand would be neutral, provided the same discipline 

1 s adopted by the States. On the side of supply the rains this year have been 
' etislactory over almost all parts of the country and the chances of a sireable 
increase In agricultural production appear, at this stage, to be good. With a 
treasonable improvement in the supplies of domestic raw materials 'and with the 
large availability of imported raw materials In consequence of the liberalised 
1 -imort policy, industrial production over the next twelve months as a whole should 
*lso show a significant improvement. To view of the appearance of recessionary 
rends m certain industries some corrective action by way of selective liberalisation 



3482 T HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA 1, 1889 [PARr 


of credit hah 1 already been Initiated. It Is also proposed to undertake some 
Advance ordering of capital goods by the public sector. These and similar 
measures will need to be supplemented by adequate effort from industry itse-f 
(or increasing productivity and reducing prices and unit costs- On the whole, 
'll would be reasonable. In the coming year, to expect some, but not yet adequate 
lessening of the imbalance between overall demand and supply. 

48. The expected increase in agricultural output and in incomes provides a 
(avouraoie bans for evolving a long-term policy with regard to prices, incomes 
and costs- In this contest, the prices of foodg rains and of other agricultural raw 
i laterlals have a crucial role- While it Is Important not to permit a sharp fall 
i l these prices, there is need for some downward adjustment, taking into account 
]; articuiarly the importance of reducing costs and increasing the competitiveness 
i f Indian industry in the export market- The stress of food policy at this juncture 
nnust be on a vigorous procurement effort both for meeting the immediate needs 
df distribution and with a view to building up a huller stocks for the longer run 
in the industrial field, the current recession from the conditions of a sellers 
i larket at home which had prevailed hitherto offers a ohal’enge, which will have 
1 o be met by offering price reductions and enlarging the market — especially the 
i xport market - rather than by curtailing output and employment In short, 
,i ’though “Incentive” pricing cannot be disregarded either in agriculture or in 
industry, an appropriate incomes poliev should seek an improvement in incomes 
i hrougn increases in productivity all along the line rather than through an increase 
in prices- 


49- Tne balance of payments continues to be under severe pressure. Over the 
year ending June 1067, the foreign exchange reserves showed a fall of $ 159 
million and some further seasonal fa 1 in the next fsw months is to be expected 
A substantial improvement is conditional upon two factors: (a) availability of 
larger export surpluses as a resu t of increased production, and (b) a strengthening 
of the competitiveness of Indian exports in world markets. This latter is of 
(particular importance in view of the prici rises that have occurred since devalu- 
ation- To this end, both fuller utilisation of installed capacity and steady effort 
to bring down unit costs are essential- Above al, there is need for an uni emitting 
drive to build up export markets through an appropriate organisational effort 
»'ii the part of industry and traue- 

50. In the complex economic situation confronting the country at the present 
time, any action that aggravates overall Inflatlona "V pressures has to be avoided. 
However, with the accent of budgetary policy on elimination of deficits, monetary 
policy can, within an overall frnmowor.t of restraint, be selectively reflatlonary- 
elome measures in that direction have recently been announced against ths back- 
ground o.‘ tile recessionary trends affecting certain industries and ihj special 
importance in that context of export promotion. How far this policy of selective 
monetary ease could he carried would of course, have to be decided in the light 
*"f the emerging situation Credit policy for the next busy season will have to 
lake into account the probable overall performance of the monsoon. The range 
of monetary techniques available to the Reserve Bank has increased considerably 
i a recent years and these instruments of policy will have to be used flexibly in 
( rdcr to faci Itate an increase in production and in exports. The overall Emit to 
fiscal and monetary relaxation, it must bp stressed, is set by the availability of 
real savings, which, In turn, depends on ov^-all economic performance as indicated 
bv the growth of real income and ihc rnnl.unmcut of Inflationary nressurcs Spe 
clal stress is needed In this context on getting the maximum results from the In- 
vestments. both public and private that have already been made and on creation 
and maintenance of a climate favourable to a sustained growth of savings and 
investment 

51. Mobilisation of the real savings of the community will thus have to com- 

mand high priority in the onerations of the commercial banks as of other financial 
intermediaries This calls; for an exnnn'dnn of the banking net-work, both terri- 
torially and to starta of society net yet covered by it so as to enlarge the area of 
petivffv of the organise 1 flcmcinl seeto”. This m-v wil 1 harm to be 'hor 1 by 
the commercial and co-onm-di,—. ivtin^ l'undp-ns rik-a-i^s the rural econo- 

■u be regarded as complementary rather than competitive As >mn/-. *-nt 
as the mobilisation of dopo-it® i ih 'ole of the banking system in allocating credit 
in terms of national priorities This re nflcntaiinu of the policies and procedures 
of commercial banks has t-> go hand In hand with closer co-ordination between 
I hem ihc cn-onerative banks and the industrial flnon'dri^ institutions Tn that 
end, the assislancc and guidance of the Reserve Bank will continue to be available. 



S*c, S(ity] : THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : ' SEPTEMBER IS&7/ASViNA 1, 1889 3483 


II. DEVELOPMENTS IN INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND COMMERCIAL BANKING 

52. The developments during the year in commercial and co-operative banking 
and in the provision of industrial finance are brought out in this. and the subse- 
quent sections- 

53- In the held of commercial banking, further efforts were made during the 
year to strengthen the banking structure through voluntary mergers and through 
annual inspections and supervision. The branch expansion programme of the 
State Bank and its subsidiaries and other commercial banks Continued to make 
progress. Stringent measures were taken by the Bank during the year to regulate 
the business of non-banking Institutions. In the field of Industrial finance, the 
institutional machinery built up over the last several years played an Important 
role In meeting the increasing demand for funds made upon it- 

Industrial Finance: Industrial Development Bank of India and other Term-leading 

Institutions 

54. The Industrial Development Bank of India further expanded its operations 
during the year 1966-07. total assistance (excluding guarantees) sanctioned by 
the IDBI aggregated Rs- 63-76 crores during 1966-07 (July-June), as compared 
with Rs- 67. 93 crores during 1965-66. Disbursements were higher at Rs. 59-30 
crores as compared with Rs. 51-10 crores in the previous year- Since its Inception 
in July 1904 till the end of June 1967, the IDBI sanctioned assistance amounting 
to Rs. 177 13 crores and disbursed Rs. 134-25 crores- On June 39, 1967, outstanding 
assistance (including outstanding refinance assistance sanctioned by the Refinance 
Corporation for Industry upto end-August 1964) amounted to Rs, 144.26 crores 
and outstanding commitments Rs b 3 ,22 crores- 

55 Direct financial assistance sanctioned by the IDBI comprising loans, under- 
writing of shares and debentures and guarantees for loans and deferred payments 
during 1966-67 (July-June) was lower at Rs- 33-83 crores on 33 applications relat- 
ing to 25 concerns, compared with Rs. 59-56 crores on 49 applications in respect of 
38 concerns in 1965-66- Of the total direct assistance sanctioned, loans accounted 
for Rs- 23,67 crores in respect of 19 applications, compared with Rs. 35-46 crores 
on 23 applications last year; underwriting of shares amounted to Rs. 2-32 crores 
in respect of 10 applications, compared with Rs- 7.54 crores on 22 applications 
in 1965-66 and guarantees for loans and deferred payments Rs. 7,85 crores on 
4 applications as against Rs. 16,67 crores on 4 applications last year The bulk 
of the direct assistance sanctioned was in respect of new projects in vital sectors 
like fertilisers and alloy and special steels and chemicals; a part of the loan 
assistance was in response to requests for additional finance from industrial units 
to meet the over-runs in project cost arising from the devaluation of the rupee 
in lune 1966, In several cases, the assistance was sanctioned in participation 
with other financial institutions; in the cgsfe of large projects, the co-operation 
of commercial banks was also enlisted, particularly in the matter of rupee loans 
on a cash basis- Disbursals of direct assistance during 1966-67 (July-June) aggre- 
gated Rs 25.90 crores— -Rs. 20.71 crores on account of loans and Rs- 519 crores 
in respect of underwriting of shares and debentures as compared with Rs. 25-23 
crores disbursed during the previous year, Commitments outstanding on June 
30, 1967, it. respect of loans and underwriting assistance totalled Rs- 37 88 crores- 


56. Under the scheme for refinancing of industrial loans, the IDBI sanctioned 
145 applications for Rs- 20.72 crores during July 1906-June 1967, as compared 
with Rs 20 35 crores in respect of 173 applications during 1965-66 Disbursal 
of industrial loans totalled Rs. 19-49 crores, as against Rs- 21.38 crores during 
1965-66. Under the scheme for refinancing of medium-term export credits four 
applications for Rs. 0.58 crore were sanctioned and the amount disbursed was 
Rs 0.37 crore. In regard to the scheme for guarantee of advances to the private 
sector coal industry, the IDBI issued 3 guarantees for Rs 5.8 lakhs, as against 
11 guarantees for Rs. 58.4 lakhs in the previous year, bringing the total number 
and amount of guarantees issued so far to 62 and Rs. 3.95 crores, respectively. 


57. An important development concerning refinance was the reduction in the 
Tate in respect of refinance of industrial loans from 6& P«r cent (which had been 
in force since March 5, 1965) to 6 per cent, effective July 1. 1967: the application 
of the reduced rate is subject to the condition that the institution availing ol 
refinance does not itself charge cti its corresponding loan more than 8J per cent 
per annum. In other rases, the normal rate of 6* per cent per annum continues 
to be applicable. In November 1906, the penal charge hitherto levied on financial 
institutions for earlier repayment of the loan or part ^hereof was discontinued. 


3484 THE GAZETTE OF INDIAN SEPTEMBER 23 , 1967/ASVWA 1; IBB9 [Pa«t II- 


58- Subscription by the IDBI to shares and bonds of financial institutions 
amounted to Rs. 7-40 crores during the year as against Rs. 1-67 crores in 1905-60. 
Of this, Rs 6 crores (out of total sanctions of Rs. 3 crores) were disbursed to 
the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India against the issue of 
special debentures, representing Governments, budgetary assistance to the ICICI- 
The Bank also contributed Rs- 25 lakhs to the share capital of the. Madras Industrial 
Investment Corporation Ltd., Rs- 6-25 lakhs to the share capital of the Jammu 
and Kashmir State Financial Corporation, and R3- T09 crores to the bonds Issued 
by the State Financial ' Corporations of Andhra Pradesh, Mysore. Maharashtra, 
Kerala, Uttar Pradesh and. Orissa and also" the Madras Industrial Investment 
Corporation- The total contribution of the IDBI since its inception to the shares 
and bonds, of statd financial corporations aggregated Rs- 5.24 crores, which was 
financed by recourse to borrowings from the National Industrial Credit (Long 
Term Operations) Fund': of the Reserve Bank of India- 

69 The coverage, of (he scheme for rediscounting of bills arising out of sales of 
indigenous machinery on deferred payment basis was extended to include all 
machine making industries from November 15, 1966, in order to encourage indi- 
genous machinery manufacturers and thus give an impetus to import substitution. 
To prevent diversion ’of such assistance to larger projects and as assistance under 
the Scheme could only be medium-sized, it was decided that cases involving re- 
discounting of bills for more than Rs. 25 lakhs relating to any purchaser, over 
a year, should obtain prior clearance from the IDBI. At the same time, in order 
to extend the benefit of the scheme to a larger segment of small purchasers, 
the minimum amount of the transaction was lowered from Rs 1 lakh to Rs- 50,000 
generally and in case of agricultural implements to Rs. 15,000. The procedures 
governing the scheme was also simplified during the year, Under the Scheme, 
the Bank rediscounted bills for Rs. 7-09 crores as compared with only Rs. 2.25 
crores during 1905-86, bringing the total bills rediscounted since the inception 
of the scheme in April 1965 to Rs- 9-42 crores. 

60- The Report for 1965-60 referred to the introduction on April 1. 1966, by the 
IDBL of- the Scheme for participation iti loans and guarantees, to supplement the 
refinance operations with a measure of risk-sharing with other institutions on a 
systematic basis- Under this scheme, the IDBI sanctioned upto the end of June 
1967 Rs- 5.08 crores by way of loans to 5 industrial concerns in participation with 
eligible financial institutions; of this amount Rs 3.09 crores were disbursed- The 
extent of IDBI’S participation In the scheme varied between 56 per cent and 80 
per cent of the -total assistance. 

6L The resources position of the IDBI was strengthened during the year through 
borrowings from" the Government and the Reserve Bank which are the main source 
of funds besides repayment of assistance disbursed. Total borrowings from the 
Reserve Bank amounted to Rs. 5.24 crores and from the Government Rs. 127 5 
crores Borrowings from Government are inclusive of Rs, 33 ’50 crores drawn up to 
end-August 1964 by the Refinance Corporation for industry Ltd Borrowings from 
the Government during the year amounted to Rs. 34.60 crores- In addition, during 
.lime 1967, a sum of Rs 10 crores was received from the Reserve Bank of India, by 
way of further subscription towards the issued capital of the IDBI, thus raising it 
to Rf- 26 crores- 

62 “ In the context of reduced level of activity in the capital market, substantial 
assistance was provided to the corporate sector during the year by other financial 
institutions. The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India sanction- 
ed net assistance of Rs. 19,12 crores during the year ended March 1967 as against 
Rs. 23.09 crores® in 1965-66. Of this, loans in foreign currencies amounted to 
$ 6.4 million or Rs, 6.30 crores, rupee loans Rs. 5.65 crores, guarantees Rs. 1 crore, 
underwriting of shares and debentures Rs. 5.93 crores and dirert subscription to 
shares Rs 0.24 crore, The amount actually disbursed was higher at Rs. 22'0O 
crores — Rs. 12:92 crores in foreign -currencies and Rs. 9.68 crores in rupees^as 
against Rs. 19 29 crorest disbursed in the preceding year. Since its inception in 
1955 upto the end of March 1967. the Corporation sanctioned net assistance aggre- 
gating Rs. 184.87 crores to 433 companies which was made up of foreign currency 
Joans of the equivalent of Rs- 104:99 crores. rupee loans Rs- 36.70 crores, guarantees 
Rs- 3 25 crores, underwriting of shares and debentures Rs, 33.83 crores and direct 
subscription to shares and debentures Rs. 6-10 crores. The amount disbursed till 
March 1967 aggregated Rs- 122.34 crores or two-thirds of the total sanctions and 
comprised Rs, 73.52 crbres in foreign currencies and Rs, 48.82 crores In rupees. 
Outstanding loans and advances of the Industrial Finance Corporation of India rose 


@ Rs, 29.60 crores' at post-devaluation value. 
f Ffs. 25 3 O crope? at post-devaluation value. 



5*c. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE* OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 28, 1967/ASVINA 1, 1889 34^5 


substantially by Rs. 23.97 crores during the eleven-month period July 1986 — May 
1967, as against Rs. 10-' 08: crores during the whole of 1905-66; those of the Stata 
Financial Corporations increased by Rs. 10.54 crores during the year as against 
Rfl.10'97 crores during 1965-66. The Industrial Finance Corporation of India and 
the State Financial Corporations also invested in shares of industrial concerns, both 
as direct subscription and as part of the underwriting arrangement. 

63 With the increasing reliance of the corporate sector on term-lending institu- 
tions for a substantial part of its financial requirements, these Institutions further 
augmented their resources during the year. The Industrial Credit and Investment 
Cru-oor,i( ion obtained during the yyar 1966-67 ( April-March) an advance of (i) 
Rs. a noi s 10 m be Uoven mcnL ui India (rclerred to in the last year's Report), 
bringing total borrowings so far from Government to Rs. 32 50 crores, and (il) 
Rs o rim ''"on', he IPBT agi”n;l the issue ot 5jj per cent Special Debentures. 
As 1 , 11 .1 eigu ' unci', r. 1 t, a i.esh lire 1 i credit of DM 5 million w as ob- 
tained from the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederauibau of the Government of Federal 
Republic of Germany bringing the total credit sanctioned by that institution to 
DM 65 million. The Industrial Finance Corporation of India issued 5i per cent 
twelve-year bonds for R$, 6 crores in September 1966, while a further loan of 
DM 85 million. Two state financial corporations, viz., Uttar Pradesh and Madras 
in February' 1967 bringing the total loans sanctioned by it to the Corporation to 
DM 85 million. Two state financial corporations, viz,, Uttar Pradesh and Madras 
Industrial Investment Corporation raised their paid-up capital by Rs. 45 lakhs 
and Rs 50 lakhs respectively, while seven corporations floated bonds for an 
aggregate sum of Rs, 6 50 crores. At the end of June 1967, seven State financial 
corporations had accepted fixed deposits aggregating Rs. 13 65 crores. Besides, 
the state financial corporations availed themselves of borrowing facilities from 
the Reserve Bank against Government securities and ad hoc bonds. Some of the 
Corporations took advantage of the refinancing facilities made available by the' 
IDBI. At the end of June 1967, total refinancing facilities made availed of by 
fourteen corpi cations (including MIIC) and outstanding aggregated Rs. 14-01 
crores. , — 

64. During the year, six State Financial Corporations were inspected by the 
Reserve Bank in terms of Section 37A of the Slate Financial Corporations Act, 
while the inspection of one more was in progress at the close of the year. 
FinaiiciMg of Smaljl-Scale Industries ; 

65 An important development relating to financing of small-scale industries was 
the widening of the coverage, during the year, of the Government of India scheme 
for the guarantee of advances granted to small-scale industries, by specified banks 
and financial institutions. Hitherto, under the scheme, only those industrial units 
whose investment of a capital nature (i.e. investment in land, building -and plant 
and machinery," including the capitalised value of rented promises, if any, but ex- 
cluding the amount spent on housing and omeniites for workers) did not exceed 
Rs. 5 lakhs, were treated as small-scale industries for purposes of - the j scheme. 
Effective March 1, 1967, however, the definition of small-scale industries for the 
purpose of the scheme was revised, so as to include all industrial undertakings, 
having, investment In plant and machinery ol a value not exceeding Rs 7J lakhs. 
The list of credit institutions eligible to avail of the guarantee facility was also 
expanded to include all "central cooperative hanks and "specified non-scheduleri 
banks while the scheme of guarantee assistance was itself liberalised by increas- 
hj- the cover against loss in respect of any one advance ffom Rs- 1 lakh to Rs- 2 
lakhs and by extending the guarantee for term advances from 7 years to 10 years- 

66. During the year ended June 1967, the Reserve Bank, which is entrusted with 
the administration of the scheme, received 19,137 applications for credit limits 
aggregating Rs. 82:31 crores, compared with 14.208 applications for Rs- 00-19 crores 
during- 1905-66 and 9,015 applications for Rs. 39:29 crores in 1964.-65-,- ^The amount, 
for which guarantees were issued was higher at Rs. 65-97 crores in 1966-07 as ; 
against Rs. 50-45 crores in 1965-66 and Rs. 29:47 crores In 1964-65, Since the In- 
ception of the scheme in July 1960 tilt the end of June 1907, the Bank received 
53 545 applications for guarantee in respect f>f credit limits amounting to Rs 227 9 1 ' 
crores and issued 44,928 guarantees coveting credit limits amounting to RS. 172:63- 
crores. Though the bulk of the applications continued to be received from tne 
State Bank of India other specified credit institutions have been increasingly taking 
advantage of the facility under the scheme. Since the inception qf the scheme up- 
to June 1967, 77 claims aggregating Rs- 9:74 lakhs were paid under the scheme- 

67 The State Bank of India under Its liberalised scheme increased its assistance 
to small .-rile Industrial- unit' small-scale industrial. co-operatlver and units in the 
Rural lutlr.es Project* T 1 number of units t^sLted r< .rum 9,3 j > at tfi p 




3486 rHE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 2S, 1967/ASVINA I, 1889 [Part II- 


end ol March 1966 to 11,142 by end-March 1967, and the working capital limits 
sanctioned to them from Rs. 51-93 crores to Rs. 60-97 crores. At tlie end of March 
1967, the outstanding advances under the -scheme stood at Rs- 36 20 crores. The 
working capital limits sanctioned by the seven subsidiaries of the bank under the 
liberalised scheme also increased -from Rs. 13 73 crores in respect of 2,213 units at 
the end of March 1966 to Rs- _18'86 crores in respect of 3,133 units at the end of 
March 1967. The outstandings were Rs- 8-36 crores at the end-March 1967- 

68- Other assistance provided by the State Bank and. Its subsidiaries Includes (1) 
medium-term credit facilities to small-scale industi-les for expansion and moderni- 
sation, (ii) assistance under the Instalment Credit Scheme to small and medium- 
sized business concerns, engaged in approved manufacturing operations, for faci- 
litating purchase of equipment or maeninery, and (ill) advances to units engaged 
In export industries- 

Unit Trust of India. 

69. The operations of the Unit Trust of India during 1966-87 were marked by 
an impressive recovery in the sale of units, in contrast to the sharp decline in the 
oreceding year Total units sold during the year 1966-67 (July-June) aggregated 
Rs, 9' 24 crores in respect of 41,570 applications; of this Rs. 9 16 crores in respect 
of, 41,516 applications were invested bv individuals. In 1965-66, only Rs. 2 15 
crores worth of units under 10,024 applications were sold. 

70. Repurchases of units during the year 1966-67 amounted -to Rs 1.99 crores, 
of which Rs- 1 crore was accounted for by a single institutional unit-holder; this 
works out to 6.9 per cent of the aggregate funds subscribed by unit-holders. In 
J965-06, repurchases amounted to Rs, 109 crores- The total. number of unit-holders 
on June 30, 1967 exceeded 1,69,000 as against 1,34,821 a year ago- 

71 The Trust has announced an income distribution to unit holders for the 
year iti66-67 at the rate of -7 per cent — the same as that for the previous year. 
This is free of income-tax upto Rs. 1,000 to individual unit holders, irrespective 
of their other income 

72, As part of the sales promotion effort, the network of individual agents for 
canvassing sale of units, tef erred to ih last Report, is being expanded. The 
number of agents and stock-brokers on the Trust’s approved list now exceeds 800. 
Besides these agents and stock-brokers, units are being sold through over 14,000 
post offices and 4,000 branches of leading commercial banks. 

73 The work relating to sale and repurchase of units has been decentralised 
effective Julv 1, 1967- From that date, the four offices of the Trust at Bombay 
Calcutta, Delhi ami Madras have been dealing with the work relating to sale and 
repurchase of units emanating from their respective regions (which correspond 
to the four currency circles of the Reserve Bank), The Trust will thus be in a 
position to offer better and prompt service to unit-holders in the region concerned. 
Besides, the regional offices should be of help in the larger task of mobilisation 
of savings. 

74- The total investments of the Trust at the end of May 1967 aggregated Rs 33 0 
Crores and covered a wide range of manufacturing, financial and public utility 
enterprises. Of the total investments, ordinary shares of corporate enterprises 
accounted for Rs. 13 7 crores (40 8 per cent), preference 'shares Rs. 3 7 crores 110 
per cent), debentures Rs. 12 8 crores (38:1 per cent), bonds of public corporations 
Rs- 0-07 crores (21 per cent) and the balance of Rs. 2 .7 crores (8 0 per cent) repre- 
sented advance deposits In respect of purchase of debentures add preference shares, 
application money and treasury bills. Incidental to its investment activities, the 
Trust continued to provide underwriting faculties, with respect to new Issues by 
Old and established companies by way of firm commitment to invest upto the 

a -«lJ s ^ rw ^T m - . 

75. The Wording Group on Saving-cu™ -Insurance Plan appointed by the 
Reserve Bank at the request of the Trust (vide last Report) completed its work 
and submitted its Report to the Bank. It is expected that a Savings-cum-Insurance 
Plan would be initiated by the Trust before long with the cooperation and assis- 
tance of the life insurance Corporation. 

76. A classification of unit-holders according to the "size of transactions shows 
that roughly one out of nine applications during the calendar year 1966 was for 
ten units, and one out of four applications was for 20-50 units.’ Roughly, one m 
five applications was for 60 — 100 units. Thus, almost six out Of every ten applica- 
tions were for 100 units or less- Salary and wage earners continued to be the 




J-fc. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE Of INDIA: SEPTEMBER., SI 1567/ASVINA 1, 1889 3484 - 


.largest single group investing in units- This category accounted for 50 per cent 
of the number of the applications and absorbed 40 per cent of the number of units 
sold. 


Strengthening of the Banking- Structure 

77. The process of consolidation of the banking system in the country, through 
voluntary mergers of non-vlablc units with others, made, further progress during 
the year._ Six banks transferred their liabilities and assets to five ether banks, 
while the business of three banks was acquired by the State Bank of India under 
Section 35 of the State Bank of India Act, 1955. In 1965-00, 14, Banks had 
transferred their liabilities and assets to eleven other banks, while the business 
of three banks was taken over by the subsidiaries of the State Bank During the . 
year under review, no bank was amalgamated with another bank either under 
Section 44 A or under Section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act- As regards li- 
quidation of banks during the year, two non-scheduled banks were ordered to be 
wound up by Court, while four non-scheduled banks went into voluntary liquids- ' 
tions, after obtaining from the Reserve Bank a certificate under Section 44(1) of 
the Banking Regulation Act, 1949- The Reserve Bank issued such certificates to 
sixteen non-scheduled banks during the year, to enable them to go Into voluntary 
liquidation- 

78. Annual inspection of all banks, which is an integral part of the process of 
strengthening the banking structure, was made In respect of 52 scheduled banks 
and 15 non-scheduled banks during the year, under Section 35 of the Banking Re- 
gulation Act, 1949- In addition, scrutiny of affairs of 22 banks was carried cut 1 
for various purposes including (1) judging whether there is a prirna, facie case 
for misfeasance proceedings, (2) for issue of certificate under Section 44(1), (3) 
for determining the future set-up of banks, and (4) for determining the progress 
made in rectificatic,n of defects- 

79. Seventy-four banks sent comments/ representations on the Inspection le- 
ports. After examining these, directions were issued to 37 banks, while 14 banks 
were asked to submit periodical progress reports- In the case of 15. banks, no 
action was considered necessary, while the remaining 8 cases were under consi- 
deration- With a view to pointedly bringing to the notice of banks the main 
defects in their working, representatives of such banks were called for informal 
discussions, and the need lor taking urgent steps for removing those defects was 
Impressed upon them. In order to reduce the time-lag between the completion of 
the inspection reports and taking final action thereon, simultaneously with the 
forwarding of copies of inspection reports, eight banks were asked to take certain 
specific steps and to submit monthly/quarterly progress reports- At present 
51 banks (31 scheduled and 20 non-scheduled) are working under directions Issued 
by the Reserve Bank and submitting periodical reports, while 20 other banks are only 
submitting monthly/quarterly progress reports- In 35 cases, observers were deput- 
ed to attend the Board/ Committee meetings of the banks- 

80. In view of a considerable flab in recent years In the volume and range of 
guarantee business of commercial banks, the Bank appointed an Informal Advi- 
sory Committee under the Chairmanship of one of the Deputy Governors of the 
Bank for assessing the Implications for the baking system of this increase In the 
guarantee business and examining the need for its regulation. On the basis of 
the recommendations of the Committee, the Governor laid down on Mav 3, 1967, 
certain guldlines for the banks in respect of the total volume of guarantee busi- 
ness of individual banks, the purpose of the guarantee, the period of maturity, 
security offered and distribution of risk. 


Deposit Insurance Corporation 

81. The number of banks insured under the facility provided by the Deposit 
Insurance Corporation, which had 'declined from 138 at the end of June 1965 to 
107 by end-June 1986, declined further to 90 by the end of June 1967- This was 
the result -of registration of one new bank and cancellation of registration in res- 
pect of 12 banks- Of these 12 banks, cancellation of 9 cases was due to transfer 
of their deposit liabilities and equivalent assets. In the case of one bank (because 
of its merger with another institution) and in the case of the remaining two banks 
the cancellation was consequent upon the sanction by the Central Government cf 
a scheme for the administration of the banks under the Defence of India Rules. 


82. The Corporation’s liability for payment of the insured deposits was attract- 
ed during the year in the case of two insured banks for a total of Rs. 18 '62 lakhs. 
Since Its inception in January 1962 upto the end of June 1907, the Corporation, 



3488 G AZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA 1 , 1889. [Part II- 


met claims aggregating Rs- 57 21 lakhs In respect of 11 banks. During the year 
the Corporation received reimbursements amounting to Rs 18 40 lakhs, total 
reimbursements received since 1962 amounting to Rs. 32'53 lakhs and relating to 
11 banks- 

83- A development soon after the close of the year was introduction in the 
.Lok Sabha on July 17, 1967 of the Deposit Insurance Corporation (Amendment) 
Bill, 1967 to amend the Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 1961, so as to extend 
the scheme of deposit insurance to cover State, centra) and larger primary non- 
agricultural credit societies, i.e., urban co-operative banks with paid-up capital 
and reserves of Rs- 1 lakh or more. 

Branch Expansion programme 

84. The Report for 1965-66 referred to the progress made under the first three- 
year branch expansion programme which concluded on July 31, 1965- By end- 
June 1967, the number of offices opened under the programme rose to 602 of which 
224 were at unbanked centres. Under the second expansion programme covering 
the two-year period August 1965 to July 1967, the Bank approved the opening of 
663 offices, oj! which 239 are to be at unbanked centres. Upto the end of June 
1967, licences were issued for 508 new offices, of which 172 are at unbanked centres 
Against these licences, banks have opened 389 offices, including 139 at unbanked 
centres. 

85. As part of the second and third branch expansion programmes launched 
by the State Bank of India, two more centres were approved during the year (July 
1986-June 1967) under the second expansion programme bringing the total num- 
ber of approved centres under that programme to 165; against "these, the State 
Bank has so far opened 143 branches, of which 11 branches were opened since 
July 1966- The bank was advised that branches at centres approved under the 
second expansion programme should be opened by December 1968, and that no 
additional centres would be approved under this programme- Under the third 
expansion programme, in terms of which the State Bank is required to open 319 
brandies at Treasury/ Sub-Treasury centres during the five years 1964 to 1968, it 
has so far opened 185 branches, ol which 60 were opened during the year ended 
June 1967. 

86. During the year July 1966 to June 1967, the subsidiaries of the State Bank 

of India opened 52 branches under the second five-year expansion programme, of 
which four were one-man offices. Thus, during July 1966 to June 1967, the State 
Bank and its subsidiaries together opened 123 branches under their expansion pro- 
grammes. The total number of offices of the State Bank and its subsidiaries, as 
at the end of June 1907, stood at 2,146. Other scheduled banks (i.e. other than 
the State Bank of India and its - id-.ii.,, lies) opened 184 new offices during the 
year at places which were not td by either a scheduled bank or a 

non-scheduled bank having paid-up > ,pitaT ur.*' .eserves of over Rs- 50,000 and 
268 new offices at other centres- In additio, offices were added as a result 
of amalgamation/take-over of offices of non-sciieauied banks consequent upon 
transfer of their assets and liabilities, On the other hand, 13 offices were closed 
during the year ended June 19B7, The total number of offices of scheduled bank* 
thus increased by 470 during the year ended June 1967 from 6,122 to 0,592. 

87- Five more clearing houses were established during the year under review, 
thus bringing the total number of clearing houses in the country to 89 at the end 
of June 1967. Of these, 7 are managed by the Reserve Bank, 68 by the State Bank 
of India (including the one that was previously managed by a commercial bank) 
and 14 by the subsidiaries of the State Bank of India- 

Regulation of Business of Non-Banking Institutions relating to Acceptance of 
deposits. 

88- Mention was made in last years' R'eptW: Of the two directives issued by the 
Reserve Bank in January 1966— one to non-banking non-financial companies 
(except those under. certain exempted categories) and the other to non-banking finan- 
cial companies which carry on or finance hire-purchase business— and the amend- 
ments made to the directives on April 4 and June 29, I960. The directive issued to 
non-banking non-financTai companies was further amended on September 7. 1966 
In order to permit intercorporate investments in the form of deposits among Gov- 
ernment companies. 

89- A Survey of deposits with non-banking companies as of March 81, for the 
years 1962 to 1966 was carried out by the Bank during the year. According to 
the Survey, the total number of deposit accounts in the non-banking corporate 




Sec. 5(il)] THE GAZETTE Of INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ AS VINA 1, 1689 3489 


Hector increased by about 1 lakh, and the total volume of deposits by about Rs. 75 
crores to Rs. 209 crores during the period March 1962 to March 1965.- The Survey 
also disclosed that the less well-managed and smaller-sized private limited com- 
panies continued to rely on deposits to a much larger extent than was justified 
by their capital base — indicating, pri mo facie, over trading preceded or followed 
by the acceptance of commitments which were unduly large in relation to their 
own financial position, liquid resources or ability to repay the deposits within 
relatively short-term periods- In the context of this and the reported failure of 
some companies in and around Delhi, two new directives were issued on October 
29, 1966 in supersession of all the earlier notifications and orders, viz ■ the Non- 
Banking Financial Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 1966, and the Non- 
Banking Non-Financlal Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 1966. These new 
directives came into effect from January 1, 1967. The Non-Banking Financial Com- 
panies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 1966 are applicable to all financial companies, 
Irrespective of whether they accept deposits or not, while the Non-Banking Non- 
Financial Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions 1966 are applicable only to those 
non-flnanclal companies which have been accepting deposits from the public, The 
two directives taken together broadly provide for — 

(1) controlling terms and conditions on which deposits can be accepted; 

(ii) restriction of deposits to 25 per cent of paid-up capital and free reserves 
In the case of both non-banking financial and non-banking non- 
financial companies, other than housing finance and hire-purchase 
finance companies; companies having deposits in excess of the ceiling, 
were allowed a period of two years to bring the deposits within the 
ceiling; 

(ill) maintenance of liquid assets equivalent to 10 per cent of outstanding 
deposits in the case of hire-purchase and housing finance companies; 

(iv) ensuring that hire-purchase debts are collected within a reasonable 
period; 

(v) furnishing of Information in sufficient detail by financial companies 
regarding their operations, and by non-flnacial companies regarding 
their deposits and hire-purchase transactions. The Bank also issued 
two orderH on April 4, 1967, regarding payment of Interest on pre- 
mature withdrawal of deposits- 

III. DEVELOPMENTS IN CO-OPERATIVE BANKING 

90. In the context of the programmes for the intensive development of agricul- 
ture. which are likely to generate an increasing demand for credit, the need for 
strengthening The co operative credit structure has become paramount- An* effec- 
tive implementation of the crop loan system, to which a reference was made In 
the last year’s Report and the reorganisation of primary agricultural credit societies 
on the basis of viability received emphasis during the year- Important develop- 
ments In the sphere of co-operative banking were (i) the inclusion of twelve State 
co-operative banks In the Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, (ii) 
the enactment of the Banking Regulation (Co-operative Societies) Rules, I960, 
which came into force with effect from December 3. 1966 and (iii) the issue of 
directives to co-operative banks under Section 21 of the Banking Regulation Act. 
1949 restricting their advances against cotton and kapas, following the Imposition 
of similar restrictions on advances of scheduled commercial banks. 

91. In the sphere of co-operative credit policy an Important development was 
the appointment by the Reserve Bank of the All-India Rural Credit Review Com- 
mittee In July 1966 and a Working Group on Industrial Financing by Co-operative 
Banks in June 1967, In pursuance of the recommendations made by the Banks 
Standing Advisory Committee on Rural and Co-operative Credit. The All-India 
Rural Credit Review Committee under the chairmanship of Shri B. Venkatappiah, 
Is required to review the supply of rural credit in the context of the Fourth Plan 
generally, and In particular Tfi the context of the requirements of the Intensive 
programmes of agricultural production contemplated In different parts of the 
country, and make recommendations, particularly in respect of the progress of the 
nupply of rural credit, the working of the crop loan system, the progress and 
significance of rural branches of commercial banks, the schemes of rural pilot 
centres and one-man offices of the State Bank, and the progress made in respect 
of agricultural credit corporations and allied mattters- 

92. The Working Group on Industrial Financing by Co-operative Banks under 
the chairmanship of Shri P- N. Damry, Deputy Governor, is to examine the existing 
situation regarding the resources available to co-operative processing industries ana 



3 9 0 rHE GAZETTE Of INDIA : SEPTEMBER ?3f lpt67/ASylNA .1, 188» [Pari II- 


co-operative cottage and small-scale , Industries from the co-operative banking 
structure As also the question 6f bringing closer inter-relationship between the 
various types of co-operative banks and between the higher financing agencies and 
these banks from the point of view of ensuring adequate flow of funds to co- 
operative processing industries and cottage and small-scale industries. 

Co-operative Credit: Policy, Procedures and Operations 

93. With a view to assisting the process of implementation of the crop loan 
systerti, the Reserve Bank prepared and published a manual in June 1966 for 
distribution to the Co-operation and the Agriculture Departments of the State Gov- 
ernments, the State co-operative banks, the central banks and others concerned. 
The manual has been translated Into regional languages- As In 1965-66, the officers 
of the Bank participated in the "STate Level Conferences on the crop loan system 
organised by the Government of India In the various States, so as to facilitate a 
proper understanding of the system in all its aspects. 

94. In the context "of providing adequate finance for stepping up agricultural 
production, the Conference of State Ministers for Co-operation held at Hydera- 
bad in June 1 EKI-1 had emphasised the need for the reorganisation of primary 
agricultural credit societies on the basis of viability (vide 1963-64 Report). 
The Conference had recommended that the State. Governments should carry 
out surveys of all existing societies, work out, for each area, the volume of busi- 
ness ' necessary lo attain a viable status and formulate specific programmes for 
enabling the societies to attain viability. Accordingly, most of the State Govern- 
ments nave carried out the surveys and the societies which are very weak or 
which do not have chances of attaining the desired standards are to be liquidat- 
ed, or amalgamated. The total number of societies is expected to be thua 
reduced from 2.01 lakhs at the end of 1964-65 to 1.28 lakhs by the end of the 
Fourth Plan. With a view to enabling the societies to meet their establishment 
charges till they reach the necessary level of loan business, the Government of 
India decided m May 1966 to raise the level of subsidy for appointment of 
paid managers. 

95. During the year, the Bank decided that ‘C’ class co-operative banks 
which had adopted the crop loan system or were working ini special project 
areas or were serving areas affected by drought and scarcity and which had 
approached the Reserve Bank for loans from the National Agricultural Credit 
(Stabilisation) Fund, should be exempted from maintaining non-overdue cover 
for borrowings from the Bank, if a request to that effect was received. A 
similar concession in maintenance of non-overdue cover was agreed to be given 
to ‘A’ and ‘B’ class banks also in areas affected by drought if they applied for it. 
The total credit limits sanctioned by the Bank to the State co-operative banks 
for financing seasonal agricultural operations and marketing of crops at the 
concessional rate of 2 per cent below the Bank rate increased from Rs. 212.69 
crores in 1905-66 to Rs. 226.26 crores in 1966-07, Drawals aggregated Rs. 282.97 
crores during the above period, while repayments were Rs. 291.90 crores: the 
outstandings at the end of the year were Rs. 134.80 crores as against Rs. 143.73 
crores at the end of 1965-66. A sum of Rs. 1.70 crores was also sanctioned to 
two State co-operative banks at Bank rate to enable them to convert short- 
term loans granted by them to central co-operative banks for seasonal agri- 
cultural operations and marketing of crops, into medium-term loans. The amount 
drawn and outstanding was Rs, 0,68 crore. 

90. The Reserve Bank also sanctioned special credit limits at the concessional 
rate of 2 per cent below the Bank rate for the high-yielding varieties pro- 
gramme during kharif and rabi 1966-07 aggregating Rs, 17.74 crores and Rs. 
13.50 crores, respectively. The amounts drawn by State co-operative banks 
were Rs. 3.94 crores and Rs. 2,34 crores, respectively. It may be added that the 
granting of such special limits has been discontinued from the current year 
(1907-68) in consultation with the Government of India. The requirements 
of the high-yielding varieties programme for 1967-68, will however be fully taken 
into consideration while considering the total short-term agricultural lending 
programme of the central banks. 

97, In view of the reduction of the period (from 18 months to 6 months) 
and in the volume of short-term credit (from full value of the consignment to 
50 per cent) made available by the Government of India to State Govern- 
ments. for distribution of chemical fertilisers, and the likely inability of co- 
operatives to take up the responsibility without adequate financial assistance, 
the Reserve Bank indicated its willingness to sanction credit limits to State 



Sic. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA 1, 1889 3491 . 


co-operative banks, at Bank rate against Government guarantee under Section 
17(4) (cl oi the Reserve Bank of India Act lor financing stocking and distribu- 
tion of chemical fertilisers. Credit limits aggregating Rs. 27 crores were sanc- 
tioned operative during the calendar year, lyti7, but no drawals had been made 
on them till the end of June 1967, 

98. The medium-term credit limits for agricultural purposes sanctioned dj r 
the Reserve Bank during 1900-67 at a concessional rate of 14 per cent below 
the Bank rate amounted to Rs. 15,34 crores, as compared with Rs. 14.06 crores 
sanctioned last year. Drawals on limits came to Rs. 8.37 crores as compared 
wilb Rs. 7.45 crores in the previous year; outstandings as on June 30, 1967 
were Rs, 15.41 crores. The Reserve Bank has also decided to sanction medium- 
term loans to State co-operative banks for financing the purchase of shares liv 
co-operative cotton ginning and pressing societies, groundnut oil mills and rice 
mills. Some policy aspecis regarding' medium-term loans from the Reserve 
Bank were reviewed at the thirty-sixth meeting of the Bank’s Standing Ad- 
visory Committee on Rural and Cooperative Credit held on May 23, 1907. While 
agreeing to the continuation of the existing policy of reimbursement followed 
by the Reserve Bank for sanctioning medium-term loans to State co-operative 
banks for agricultural purposes, the Committee noted that (i) in deserving 
cases, the basic level would be suitably relaxed by the Reserve Bank, if ne- 
cessary spontaneously, and (ii) the inadequate drawals of medium-term credit 
limits by State co-operative banks could be remedied if the co-operative bank* 
sent their applications in time to the Reserve Bank and the Stale Govern- 
ments executed their guarantees quickly. The Committee recommended that 
if relevant conditions were satisfied, the Reserve Bank might consider granting, 
medium-term loans for five years to a larger extent than at present, so that 
the needs of a well-designed programme of intensive development in an area 
did not suffer for want of medium-term funds. If a longer period was found- 
necessary, the cultivators should be advised to approach co-opeiative land mort- 
gage banks. 

99 It was mentioned in the last Report that In respect of financial accom- 
modation to State co-operative banks for financing the production and market- 
ing of handloom weavers' societies, the assistance would be on the basis of 
actual production and sales and not on the number of looms and the scale of 
finance fixed per loom. However, in view of the difficulties experienced ,by the 
societies in complying with the requirements of the change-over, particularly 
those relating to the maintenance of 10 per cent margin and fixation of assis- 
tance on the basis of past sales, the Bank agreed to treat, as a temporary 
measure, certain items of assets as cover for borrowings in lieu of the margin 
of ten per cent prescribed. The Bank also agreed to fix the normal credit limit 
for a society at one-fourth instead of one-fifth of its actual production in the 
previous year, in addition to a reasonable estimate of the likely increase ire- 
production in the current year. The credit limits sanctioned by the Bank for 
financing the production and marketing activities of handloom weavers’ so- 
cieties for the financial year 1966-67, at the concessional rate of 14 per cent 
below the Bank rate under Section 17(2) (bb) or (4)(c) of the Reserve Bank 
of India Act totalled Rs. 6.48 crores as compared with Rs. 6.73 crores in 1965- 
66. The drawals amounted to Rs. 4.87 crores and outstandings at the end of 
the year stood at Rs. 4.85 crores. In addition, a sum of Rs. 0.17 crore wak 
drawn by one State co-operative bank under Section 17(4) (a) of the Reserve 
Bank of India Act at the concessional rate for financing handloom weavers' 
co operatives during 1966-67 and the entire amount was outstanding at the end Of 
the financial year. The Bank also sanctioned Rs. 1.00 crore at Bank rate under - 
Section 17(2) (a) or (4)(c) of the Reserve Bank of India Act for financing com- 
mercial or trade transactions of apex handloom weavers’ societies for the finan- 
cial year 1966-67. Drawals aggregated Rs. 0.58 crore and outstanding were 
Rs. 0.24 crore at the end of the financial year. 

100. As scarcity conditions continued to prevail in certain parts of the coun- 
try, the National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation) Fund had to be utilised 
again for converting, Into medium-term loans, the short-term dues to the Re- 
serve Bank from the State and central co-operative banks in the affected area*. 
During the year, Rs. 7,45 crores were sanctioned to four State co-operative 
banks on behalf of 79 central co-operative banks at the concessional rate of 
14 per cent below the Bank rate, against which the State co-operative bankg - 
drew Rs. 8.43 crores. The inrmlementation of the scheme of building up the agri- 
cultural credit stabilisation funds at various levels of the co-operative credit 
structure (vide 1964-65 and 1965-66 Reports) was pursued by the Reserve* 
Bank with the Government of India and the State Governments. During 



3492. THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1907/ASV1NA I, 1889 [Pa*T li- 


the financial year 1986-67, the Government of India provided Rs. 6.78 crore# 
to eight State Governments to enable them to strengthen the stabilisation 
funds of the State co-operative banks, The All-India Rural Credit Survey 
Committee had also recommended the creation of Agricultural Credit (Relief 
and Guarantee) Funds by the Central and State Governments to meet situation# 
arising out ot recurring natural calamities, necessitating writing off of the 
dues of co-operative credit institutions, Such funds have been created by all 
the State Governments but the total amount to their credit was only Rs. 97.00 
lakhs as on March 31, 1960. The Bank is pursuing the question of augmenting 
the amounts available in these funds and of a Fund being set up for the pur- 
pose by the Government of India, 


101. Loans amounting to Rs. 2.47 crores were sanctioned to 14 State Govern- 
ments during the financial year 1966-67 out of the National Agricultural Credit 
(Long-term Operations) Fund to enable them to contribute to the share capital 
of 46 central co-operative banks, 1780 primary agricultural credit societies and 
five central land mortgage banks. The State governments drew a sum of R». 
2.27 crores against these sanctions and repaid Rs, 3.47 crores in respect of pre- 
vious loans. The total amount due from the State governments as on March 
31, 1967 was Rs. 28.22 crores. 


102. As in the previous year, the Reserve Bank of India convened in March 
1907 a meeting of the representatives of the central land mortgage banks, the 
Life Insurance Corporation of India, the State Bank of India and the Govern- 
ment of India to discuss the debenture programme of the central land mortgage 
banks. A programme of Rs. 57.40 crores was approved on the basis of an 
assured support totalling Rs. 30 crores from the Government of India, the Life 
Insurance Corporation of India, the State Bank of India and the Reserve Bank of 
India. The support from the Government of India, which will amount to Rs. 10 
crores, Is subject to the condition that (1) the Stale Governments concerned will 
contribute a specified amount to the debentures of their land mortagage banks, 
and (11) the land mortgage hanks will have to show, as cover for the contributions 
made by the Central Government, unencumbered mortgages of an equal or larger 
amount for certain specified purposes. The support from the three public sector 
institutions is, on the other hand, subject to the condition that at least 00 per cent 
of the loans shown as cover for debentures should be for productive purposes, 


103 A development of significance in this context is the increased role of 
commercial banks In supporting the debentures of land mortgage banks. The 
Bank addressed a letter to the commercial banks in September 1966, explaining 
the importance of the programme of land development being financed by the 
land mortgage hanks and the relative merits of investment in their debentures 
as compared to oilier types of securities. The commercial banks increased their 
support to the debentures of land mortgage banks from Rs, 0.93 crores in the 
financial year 1965-66 to Rs. 3.85 crores in 1966-67. 

104. During the year ended March 1907, central land mortgage banks Issued 
ordinary debentures for Rs. 58.02 crores, of which Rs. 4.37 crores were taken up 
by the Bank, while the State Bank, the Life Insurance Corporation, the State 
Governments and the Government of India subscribed Rs. 34.81 crores. The 
contributions from co-operative institutions were Rs, 13,34 crores and the balance 
was taken up, among others, by commercial banks. The Bank also subscribed 
to the rural debentures issued by the central land mortgage banks to the extent 
of Rs. 1.63 crores in the agreed proportion (Bank support: the public response) 
nf 8-7 On June 30, 1907, the Bank’s holdings in ordinary and rural (includ- 
ing special) debentures were Rs. 20.74 crores and Rs. 7.20 crores, respectively. 


105. During the year under report, 127 non-agrlcultural credit societies were 
included in the list of primarv co-operative banks while 79 societies, 
earlier classified a= primarv co-operative banks, were excluded from the 
list. Further, four State co-operative banks were included In the list and one 
bank was deleted, bringing the total number of State co-operative banks to 29 
«s at the end of June 1987, The number of central co-operative banks was re- 
duced from 382 to 381 due to amalgamation. As a result, the total number 
of co-operative banks brought under the Banking Regulation Act Increased dur- 
ing the vear from 1,600 to 1.850. The latter consisted of 29 State co-operative 
banks 381 central co-operative banks and 1240 primary eo-ooerative banks. 
Also.- under the provision of Section 42. twelve State co-onerntive banks were 
Included in the Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act. 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; SEPTEMBER 23, I967/ASVINA 1, 1889 


3493 


106. The number of licensed co-operative banks as on 30 June 1967 wa* 
seven consisting of one State co-operative bank, three central co-operative 
banks and three newly registered primary co-operative banks all of which were 
issued licences during the year 1966-67. Licences were also issued to eight co- 
opei tive banks for opening fifteen new places of business at various centres, 
wbil ■ one application for such licence was rejected and one was withdrawn. 


107. i view of the shortage of raw cotton and kapas and the sharp rise 
in their , ■ ices, the limited control imposed on advances of scheduled commercial 
banks against these commodities was extended to similar advances made by 
State i.na central co-operative banks. A directive was issued to all 
scheduled State co-operative banks on April 22, 1967 and, to all non- 
Scheduled State co-operative banks and central co-operative banks on 
May 2, 1967, restricting their advances against cotton and kapas to 
a percentage of such advances during or at the end of specified periods. 
Advances to co-operative cotton mills were later exempted from the provisions 
relating to ceiling requirement of these directives, while certain central co- 
operative banks in Gujarat which represented were given an extension of lime 
for bringing down their advances, 


108. During the year, seventeen State co-operative banks, 263 central co- 
operative banks, and 178 primary co-operative banks were inspected 
on a statutory basis in terms of Section 35 of the Banking Regula- 
tion Act, 1949, of which 69 primary co-operative banks were inspected by the 
officers of the State co-operative banks on behalf of the Reserve Bank of India as 
provided for under Section 35(1) of the Banking Regulation Act and the rest by 
the officers of the Reserve Bank of India. The inspection of the central land 
mortgage banks and apex handloom weavers’ co-operative societies continued to 
be done on a voluntary basis. Nine central land mortgage banks and three apex 
handloom weavers’ co-operative societies were inspected during the year- 


Co-operative Development 


109. The Bank’s Standing Advisory Committee on Rural and Co-operative 
Credit met thrice during the year under report and considered subjects 
such as the policy regarding industrial co-operative banks and allied matters 
and the medium-term loan policy of the Reserve Bank (vide para 98 1, The 
Committee was of the view that for becoming eligible for obtaining credit limits 
as well as a licence from the Reserve Bank of India, the industrial co-operative 
banks should be operating in contiguous and. compact areas, their Individual 
membership should be gradually reduced and they should not undertake any 
non-banking business. The organisation of a new industrial co-operative bank, 
according to the Committee, will be justified if there is a sufficient number of 
industrial co-operatives of varied character in the area and the existing central 
co-operative bank in the area is weak or is otherwise unable or unwilling to 
meet the credit needs of industrial co-operatives- Also, the new as well as the 
existing inustrial co-operative banks should be in a position to raise adequate re- 
sources and function as viablb units. The Committee has also suggested (i) the 
constitution of a Working Group to study the question of ensuring adequate flow 
of funds for industrial financing through co-operative banks and (il) a study to be 
undertaken of advances against cotton and kapas by co-operative banks in Gujarat 
in the light of developments during the year. 


130. The Annual Conference of the Registrars of Co-operative Societies and 
the Conference of State Ministers for Co-operation were held in New Delhi 
in June and October 1906, respectively. The Conference discussed subjects 
such as the provision of credit facilities for the High-yielding Varieties Por- 
gramme, the crop loan system, the programme of revitalisation of primary ■cre- 
dit societies, the scheme of outright grants to special bad debt reserves of co- 
operative banks and societies and the strengthening of consumers’ co-operatives. 


Ill The Informal Group on Institutional Arrangements fop Agricultural 
Credit had recommended as a transitional arrangement, the establishment of 
agricultural credit' corporations in the Eastern States, Rajasthan and the Union 



3494 TH£ CAZEUE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVIN A 1, lg*9 ' [Part Jl^ 

Svely °nttle°headway lr ( wide ReZrt^'T^ Cre ^ bas m ad e ‘cc^a^ 

ment of such cor^rat ons bv A bl T V' P r ovidmg fo r the estaWish- 

]ike] y to he intaSSTS Parliament 1 ^ ZL't - 

official ?eSS?ives er of h (he’rn S in p ^ evioUs y earS - with the official and non- 
March-May 1S07 llnnf c ( °-°P el : atlve movement in different States during 

tfonal 01 hi 6 primH 7 credit s tru ctnre S on"thI U basiT o?' impOrtanTo^ra- 

meffective b m'rancern 1 ent.K for preval< r n . ce ' of overdues, inadequacy of deposits and 
arrangements for supervision and audit were discussed. The follow- 
up of these discussions is being pursued by the Agricultural Credit Department 
with a view to securing timely implementation of agreed decisions. 

Linking between Co-operative Credit and Marketing 

1 ’ 1 ?'i, The integrated scheme of rural credit which has been under implementa- 
tion following the recommendations of the All-India Rural Credit Survey Uom- 
imttee (19541 envisages a close co-ordination between co-operative credit and 
marketing particularly from the point of ensuring that credit provided for agri- 
cultural production is recovered out of the sale proceeds of crops. The value of 
agricultural produce marketed by co-operatives increased from Kb. 300 crores in 
1064-65 to Rs. 360 crores in 1965-66. Out of 2.01 lakh primary agricultural credit 
societies at the end of 1964-65, 1.25 lakh societies were affiliated lo marketing 
societies. 

114. Upto the end of the Third Five Year Plan. 12,288 rural godowns and 
2,681 godowns of marketing societies were assisted under the co-operative plans; 
the storage capacity of these godowns when completed will be about 2 million 
tonnes. In . addition, the co-operatives have from their own resources constructed 
about 1,000 godowns at mandi level and 1,500 godowns in the rural areas. 
Agricultural Refinance Corporation 

* 

115. During 1966-67, the Agricultural Refinance Corporation sanctioned 15 
schemes relating to the development of land such as land reclamation and soil 
conservation, different types of plantation crops like rubber tea, coffee, coconut, 
etc., and development of fisheries. The States to be benefited by these 15 schemes 
are Assam, Bihar, Kerala, Madras, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Mysore? 
The total financial outlay involved in these schemes is Rs. 10.53 crores and the 
Corporation’s commitment amounted to Rs. 8:53 crores or 81 per cent of the outlay. 
Of the 15 schemes, 4 schemes are to he financed by central land mortgage banks, 
the refinance amounting to Rs. 5 29 crores to be provided In the form of subscrip- 
tion to the special development debentures to be floated for the purpose- 2 
schemes involving refinance of Rs. 1.28 crores are through a State co-op e ratlve 
bank and the remaining nine schemes involving Rs. 1.96 crores of refinance are 
to he financed by scheduled banks. The total number of schemes sanctioned by the 
Corporation during its four years of working is 42, * involving a financial outlay 
of Rs. 43.29 crores, the Corporation’s commitment being Rs. 35.34 crores. 

116 In addition to the schemes actually sanctioned, several schemes are Under 
the consideration of the Corporation. These include schemes for land reclama- 
tion, minor Irrigation, wells and pump sets, development of fisheries, grapes etc- 

117 During the year under review the Corporation disbursed a sum of fca. 1.92 

safe 

so far disbursed Rs. 0.98 crores. 

list A few changes in the policy and procedures of the Corporation were 

Saaw-Jtfavtfnss 

♦The number of schemes and the financial outlay have been reduced » Jc^mes 

• nrtinned to the State Bank of India and one scheme Sanctioned to the Madhya Pradesh State 
cSeSve it Bank £ the earlier years were withdrawn and refinance cancelled. 



Sec, 3(U>] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA 1, 1889 3495 


prepared on a project basis with assured inputs, technical aid and administrative 
and supervisory facilities from the concerned State Governments. The guide- 
lines on which such schemes should be formulated have been prepared and cir- 
culated among the State Governments and the Central Land Mortgage Banks. 

These schemes are, however, not to replace the normal finance provided for this 

purpose by the land mortgage banks. 

119. As regards its financial assistance through scheduled banks for schemes 

for the development of plantation crops, the Corporation had hitherto agreed 
to provide financial assistance for the setting up of a processing unit for a planta- 
tion crop, only (i) if it formed an integral part of a composite scheme for the 

development of a plantation crop and (ii) if financial assistance was also sought 
for in respect of the main development viz., new planting /replanting or extension 
of plantation. The Corporation has since decided that refinance facilities might 
also be provided for setting up a processing unit alone for a plantation crop pro- 
vided (i) it is satisfied about the need therefor and (ii) the activity is linked to 
a programme of development with assured finance from some other agency for 
the main development envisaged by an estate, 

120. During the year under review, the Corporation brought out two booklets 
one each on Rubber and Tea Plantations for the benefit of planters, explaining 
in detail the terms and conditions and the procedure to be followed for obtaining 
refinance from the Corporation in respect of schemes for the development of these 
plantation crops. 


IV. EDUCATION AND TRAINING 

121. Recognising the importance of education and training for raising the quality 
and standard of banking personnel, the Reserve Bank of India has been taking 
an active part in sponsoring, organising and conducting appropriate courses for 
different, categories of hanking personnel. The Bank has been providing training 
to the personnel of commercial and co-operative banks as well as to its own 
■staff. Further progress was made in this direction during the year under review- 
In order to meet the increasing demands of banking institutions for training 
facilities, the Bank decided to set up another college— the third of its kind— for 
banking personnel to be located at Poona. The Governor of the Bank laid the 
foundation stone for the proposed college in May 1967. In 1954, the Bank had 
set up Bankers’ Training College in Bombav for the benefit of the supervisory 
staff of commercial banks, while a second college was c et up bv the Bank 'I 1 
Madras in 1963. main’v for the training of its own iunior supervisory staff. A 
further step that is being taken hv the Reserve Bank is the Institution of a course 
in banking for the managerial personnel of urban co-operative banks. The BanK 
is nlreadv running courses for the managerial staff of State and central co-opera- 
tive banks. With the extension of the Banking Regulation Act. 1949 to regulate 
inter alia the banking operations of the State, central anfi primary co-operative 
banks. It has become imperative to provide adequate training facilities for the staff 
of the co-operative banks, so that they may become more proficient In the tech- 
niques of banking. 

122 During the year, the Bankers’ Training College, Bombay, conducted four 
senior courses, three Intermediate ones and one course each in foreign exchange 
and personnel and organisation In addition, two courses were conducted at 
the College for the managerial staff of co-onerative banks, in which 51 officials 
participated. So far, four such courses have been conducted in which 107 trainees 
have received training In response to requests from representatives of some 
hanks, the Bank also organised a course of two weeks' duration at the Bankers 
Training College, for th° supervisory inspection staff of medium and small com- 
mercial banks. This course covered techniques and procedures of inspection and 
was attended by 23 bank officials- The total number of bank officials who received 
training during' the vear was 328 Since the inception of the College in 1954, 2,670 
candidates have received training in different courses. 

123. As regards training facilities for its own staff, the College at Madras con- 
ducted (i) 5 general courses in which 221 employees participated, (ii) 3 inspection 
courses for 72 employees and (iii) induction courses for newly appointed mnior 
officers grade II for different departments of the Bank and rural credit officers, 
for its Agricultural Credit Department. 

124. The Zonal Training Centres at Bombay, Calcutta, Madras New Delhi and 
Nagpur conducted training courses for the clerical staff. Induction courses were 
conducted for the new entrants and advanced courses for the clerical staff at 
senior level. 



3496 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; SEPTEMBER. 2S, 1%7/AS\'INA 1,1889 [Part II- 


125. A Hindi Section has been set up in the Department of Administration and 
Personnel at the headquarters in Bombay. The Section is engaged in the trans- 
lation of some of the Bank’s publications, departmental manuals, etc. 

126. Hindi classes are also run on a voluntary basis for the benefit of the stall 
at certain centres. 


V. ACCOUNTS AND OTHER MATTERS 


127. During the accounting year ended June 30, 1967. the Bank’s income, after 
making statutory and other provisions, amounted to Rs. 86T2 crores as against 
Rs. 67- 33 crores in the previous year. The expenditure, which included egtaDliBh- 
ment expenses and provision for sundry liabilities and contingencies, amounted 
to Rs. 25T2 crores, as against Rs. 17'53 crores last year. The net profit available 
for payment to Central Government was Rs- 60 crores as against Rs. 50 crores paid 
last year. 

128. The contributions to the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Opera- 
tions) Fund, the National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation) Fund ana the 
National Industrial Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund this year were R: 16 
crores. Rs. 9 crores and Rs. 10 crores, respectively, as against Rs. 15 crores, Rs. 0 
crores and Rs. 5 crores, respectively, last year. 

129. The rise of Rs. 17-69 crores in income this year was mainly due to In- 
creased earnings by way of discount on Treasury bills and interest on security 
holdings- The rise of Rs. 7 59 crores in expenditure is mainly under the head 
‘Agency Charges', There has also been some increase under ‘Establishment’ and 
‘Security Printing’. The Increase under the head 'Agency Charges’ is due to pro- 
vision made for payment of commission at enhanced rate to the State Bank of 
India and its subsidiaries on turnover of Government transactions tor the years 
1963-66 and 1968-67 for which scales of commission have yet to be fixed. The 
increase under the head ‘Establishment’ is mainly due to payment of dearness 
allowance at enhanced rates to ‘Award Staff’ owing to the rise in index figures, 
revision of pay scales of the Class IV staff and increments granted to the staff 
in the time scales of pay. The increase under ‘Security Printing’ is due to rise 
in the manufacturing cost of Bank Note Forms and increase in the indents for 
their supply. 


Auditors 

130 The accounts of the Bank have been audited by Messrs S. B, Billimoria 
and Co. of Bombay, Messrs Brahmayya and Co. of Madras and Messrs Ray and 
Ray of Calcutta, who are appointed by the Government of India as auditors of 
the Reserve Bank of India for the year 1966-67 by notification No. F. 3(54)--BC/ 
66 dated October 5, 1966 issued in exercise of the powers conferred by Section au 
of the Reserve Bank of India Act. 


The Central Board 

131 Shri P C Bhattacharyya retired as Governor of the Bank on the expiry 
of his 'term of' office on June 30, 1967, Shri M. R Bhid e relinquished his post of 
Deputy Governor of the Bank with effect from the close of business on January 
25 P 1967 to take over as Chairman of the Life Insurance Corporation of India. 
Dr. B. K. Madan also relinquished office as Deputy Governor, with effect fo 
the close of business on January 31, 1967 to join the International Monetary Fund 
in the capacity of India’s Executive Director. The Board wishes to place on re- 
cord its high appreciation of the valuable services rendered by the retiring Gov- 
ernor and the Deputy Governors. 

132 Shri L- K. Jha has been appointed as Governor of the Bank for a Period 
of five years with effect from July 1, 1967 Shri A. Baku was appointed a, a 
Deputy Governor of the Bank for a period of five years as from January 24 1967 
In the vacancy caused by the retirement of Shri C- S- Divekar. Shri J. J- Aniarla 
was appointed at a Deputy Governor for a period of three years with effect W 
Eehrtmrv 1 1967 vice Dr B. K. Madan. Shri P. N. Damry was appointed as the 
Sh Deputy Governor for a period of five years. Shri Damry took up his 
appointment on February 13, 1967. 

m shri s. Jagannathan ICS gfSK 

K iSe" Se S. Ehoath.lWs.m Shri C P. N. Singb 

Ind Prof. M MuSb retired as Directors from the Central Board of the Bank on 




Ste. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 2J, 1997/ AS VINA 1, 1889 349 -r 


the expiry of their terms of office on January 14, 1907, but both were re-nominat- 
ed by the Government of India as Directors of the Central Board in terms of 
Section 8(1) (c) of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. Shrl M. Sudarsanam 
resigned from the Central Board of the Bank with effect from December 30, I960 
and the consequential vacancy was filled by the nomination of Shri J1 Ramdave 
Row as a Director of the Bank from June 8, 1967. Dr. Triguna Sen also resigned 
his Directorship of the Central Board with effect from March 13, 1987 and the 
resultant vacancy is yet to be filled by the Government of India. 

134. Shri N. D. Nangia relinquished office as Executive Director with effect 
from the close of business on March 18, 1967 to take over as Chairman. Industrial 
Finance Corporation of India, New Delhi. Shri D. N. Maluste has been appointed 
as Executive Director with effect from that date vice Shri Nangia 

135. Eight meetings of the Central Board were held during the year four in 
Bombay, two in New Delhi and one each in Calcutta and Madras. The Com- 
mittee of the Central Board held fifty-two meetings, of which two were held in 
Calcutta, one each In New Delhi and Madras and the rest in Bombay. 

Loral Boards 

136. Dr. Triguna Sen, a Member of the Eastern Area Local Board, resigned 
his membership from October 5, 1966 and Shri A. K. Sen was nominated in the 
consequential vacancy with effect from December 23, 1966. 

137. Shri M. Sudarsanam resigned his membership of the Southern Area Local 
Board with effect from December 23, 1966, and the resultant vacancy was filled 
with effect from May 7, 1967 by the nomination of Shri M. K. Ramachandra in 
terms of Section 12(3) of the Reserve Bank of India Act. 

Opening and Closing of Offices 

138. The Note Cancellation and Verification Sections at Ludhiana, which had 
been functioning since February 1948, were closed down on May 20, 1967, and the 
staff and work of the sections were transferred to New Delhi office, 

Bank’s Premises 

A. Office Premises 

139. The construction of the Bank’s new office building at Patna and the 
second phase of construction of the building at Kanpur is nearing completion. 
The first phase of construction of the office building (fe., Annexe) at Hyderabad 
is in progress and that in respect of the office building at Bangalore will start 
shortly. 

140. The work pertaining to the reclamation of the plots taken up by the Bank 
at the Backbay Reclamation, Bombay is in progress and the plans of the office 
building on these plots are being finalised. The proposed office buildings at 
Chandigarh, Bhubaneshwar, .Trivfhdrum, Jaipur and Gauhati and the proposed 
sub-office buildings at Poona, Gorakhpur and Tiruchirapally continue to be in 
the planning stage. 

141. Land has been secured for the office building at Bhopal and for the sub- 
office building at Aimer. Proceedings for the acquisition of a plot for the office 
building at Ahmedabad are in progress, 

B. Residential Quarters 

142. The construction of the additional building consisting of 8 officers* 
quarters and 14 single rooms at Veer Savarkar Marg, Dadar, has since been 
completed, 

143. The construction of additional officers’ quarters at Calcutta is nearing 
conrnletion, The construction of staff auarters at Singhi Park, Calcutta and 
Rajendranagar, Patna, is in progress. Staff quarters at Bangalore and Bhuba- 
neshwar and additional staff quarters at Bombay, New Delhi and Madras are in 
the planning stage. Efforts are being made to acquire suitable land for staff 
quarters at other centres. 

C. Miscellaneous 

144- The construction of the Staff Training College and Hostel at Poona has 
been taken in hand. 




3498 THE gazette of India : September 23, 1967/asvinA 1, 1889 [pa*t ii- 


Employer-Employee Relations 

145. During the year, an agreement was reached between the representatives 
of the Bank and the representatives of the All-India Reserve Bank Workers’ 
Federation In regard to the revision of scales of pay and allowances and certain 
• other conditions of service of Class IV employees. The agreement was signed by 
both parties on February 7, 1967. As regards workmen employees in Class II 
and Class III. no agreement, could, unfortunately, be reached, despite prolonged 
discussions. The Employees' Association, however, respondent constructively to 
the approach of the management and, instead of pursuing an agitational ap- 
proach. which would have affected adversely the normal functioning of the Bank 
and caused grave inconvenience to the public, agreed to have the points in dis- 
pute referred to a mutually acceptable arbitrator. On the joint request of the 
Bank and the Association, accordingly, the Government of India, on February 
15, 1967, referred the dispute to Shri T. L. Venkatarama Iyer, a retired Judge 
of the Supreme Court of India for arbitration under Section 10(A) of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947. The arbitration proceedings are at an advanced stage 
The decisions of the Arbitrator, which will have been arrived at after the fullest 
-consider n Hon of all the material interests involved, will, it is hoped, reinforce 
the traditions of mutual understanding and co-operation existing between the 
-management and staff whose common task it is to render service to the public. 



RESERVE I 

BALANCE SHEET 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. p. Rs. p. 

Notes held in the B inking De- 
partment .... 33,83,12,471-00 

Nates in circulation . . 3032,30,35,221 -oo 

< 

Total Notes issued. . . 3085,13, 47,632-00 


Total Liab ill tie* 


3»3S, 13,47, 6*2 00 



8 ( 11 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 38 , 1997 /ASVINA I, 188 & 



BANKING DEPARTMENT 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Capital Paid-Up 

Reserve Fund , . , ... 

National Agricultural Credit (Long-Term Operations) 

Fmd 

National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation) Fund 

National Industrial Credit (Long-Term Operations) 
Fund ... 


Deposits : — 
la) Government 

'tO Central Government . 

(if) State Governments .... 

'(6) Banks 

(0 Scheduled Commercial Banks 
(if) Scheduled State Co-operative Banks . 

K(iff) Non-Schedaled State Co-operative Banks. . 
v(w) Other Banks . 


(e) Others 
Bills Payable 

Other Liabilities. . 


Rs. p. 

5,00,00.000 ■ 00 

80.00. 0cgooo • oo 

1 3 1.00. 00.000 'oo 
25,00,00,000-00 

30,00,00,000-00 


50,69,72,606-46 
12,14,14,428 -34 


I47.54j33.6io- 79 
8,7S,73.755'5i 
96,41,625 ‘59 
9.79,902-84 


3 [9,03,61*429- 35 

27,99,53,41 5 -13 
47.79,79,6i7-74 


Notes. 

Rupee Coin 
Small Coin 

Bills Purchased and Discounted 

(a) Internal 

(b) External ....... 

(c) Government Treasury Bills .... 
Balances held Abroad* ..... 

Investmentsf 

Loans and Advances to 

(0 Central Government .... 

(if) State Governments* ..... 

Loans and Advances to : — 

(j) Scheduled Commercial Banks 1 
(ri) State Co-operative Banks* 

(iff) Others ....... 

Loans, Advances and Investments Ecom National Agri- 
cultural Credit (Long-Term Operations; Fund 

(a) Loans and Advances to : — 

(i) State Governments ..... 

(if) State Co-operative Banks . . 

(iff) Central Land Mortgage Banks. 

(b) Investment in Central Land Mortgage Bank 

Debentures. ...... 

Loans & Advances from National Agricultural Credit 
(Stabilisation) Fund, Loans and Advances to State 
Co-operative Banks. ..... 


Rs. p. 

33,83,12*471-00 

81,5040° 

2,5Cb257'22 


365,94,60,247-72 

21,50*42,934-01 

266,97,56,765-05 


26,36,00,000-00 

11,5340,000-00 

141,52,15,78008 

2*43,80,000-00 


28,3343,439-63 
15,41, 16*487 02 

7,19,92485 00 

84i454o6-75 


35PO TMl GAZETTE Of INDIA: SEPTEMBER. 23, _ 1967/A3VINA 1, 1880 [Pa*T II- 


5^4,15,360 'Oo 


Loans, Advances and Investments from National In- 
dustrial Credit (Long-Term Operations) Fund. 

(o) Loans and Advances to the Development Bank 
(6) Investment in beads, 'debentures issued by the 
Development Bank . 

Other Assets 


50,91,16454-27 


Total Liabilities .... 886^)640,391 '75 Total Assets 8S64640491-75 


Contingent liability on partly paid shares Rs. 10,504501-05. (Sterling Investments of £50,000/- converted @ Rs. 100 =£4 -76 19). 

•Includes Cash and Short-Term Securities. 

t (0 Excluding Investments from the National Agricultural Credit (Long-Term Operations) Fund and the National Industrial Credit (Long-Term 
Operations) Fund. 

(#) Includes £ 50,000 and U.S. $997- 500 held abroad. 

1 Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long-Term Operations) Fund. 

1 Includes Rs. Nil advanced to Scheduled Commercial Banks against usance bills under Section I 7 ( 4 X C ) of the Reserve Bank of India Act. 

* Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Lcng-Tenn Operations) Fund and the National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisa- 
tion ) Fund. 


G. BALASUBRAMANIAN, 
CMtf Accountant. 


Battd, the list July, 1967. 


L. K. JHA, 

B. N. ADARKAR, 
A. BAKSI, 

J. J. ANJARIA, i 
P. N. DAMRY, ' 


Governor. 

Deputy Governor. 
Deputy Governor. 
Deputy Governor. 
Deputy Governor. 


.I0j£ flB$l T YNIASY /4961 UJttW&UUS : YltlNI iO 344 . 3 ZV 0 UfO? '°*S 


PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT 


FOR THE YEAR ENDED 


INCOME 

Interest, Discount, Exchange, Commission, etc. 1 

EXPENDITURE 

Establishment ....... 

Directors’ & Local Board Members’ fees and Expenses 

Auditors’ Fees 

Rent, Taxes, Insurance, Lighting, etc. 

Law Charges ...... 

Postage arid Telegraph Charges 

Remittance of Treasure .... 

Stationery, etc. ...... 

Security Printing (Cheque, Note Fomas, etc.) . 
Depredation and Repairs to Bank Property 

Agency Charges 

Contributions to Stall and Superannuation Funds 
Miscellaneous Expenses. .... 


Net arailable balance 


Surplus payable to the Central GoremmenL 


June 30,1967 jane 30, 1966 


Rs. p. 


Rs. p. 


85,12,17,798-63 67,52,54,502-47 


Jtme 30, 1965 


Rs. p. 
6246,61,523-98 


10^4,00,952-84 

8,94415,875-37 

7,51414498-81 

67,605-07 

71490- 87 

63 , 596-75 

30,000- 00 

30,000 ■ 00 

30,000-00 

58,19,576-85 

4045,684-58 

36,03,995-68 

I 4 > 7 o 8-45 

48,332-67 

18,967-99 

8,50,377-65 

7,76425-43 

5,38,765-95 

44,26,080 ■ 96 

44,614398-57 

4141,836-27 

16,15,830-06 

20,27,981 - 10 

14,04^75-10 

4,65,24,897-71 

3,94,184299-90 

2^8,34,512-20 

68^1,357-31 

49,01,584-56 

47,86406-15 

7383,59,733 ■ 25 

2,60,72,804 ■ 94 

245,19473-05 

7,32,000-00 

7,32,000-00 

7,32,000-00 

353 I 33774-50 

3242,547-34 

28^2,031-00 

60,00,00,903 -98 

504x900,377-14 

48,00,00,765-03 

85,1247,798-63 

67 , 52 , 5 +, 5<«- 47 

6246^1,523 ’ 98 

60,00,00,903 ■ 98 

50,00,00,377-14 

48,004x3,765-03 


3J02 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASvlNA 1, 1889 






RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT 


By Balance on 30th June, 1967. ...... 80,00,00,000- 00 

By transfer from Profit and Los« Account . .... Nil 

Total So^xt, 00,900 00 


1 After making usual or necessary provisions in terms of Section 47 of the Reserve Bank of India Act. 

L. K. JHA. 

Governor. 


B. N. ADARKAR, 

Deputy Governor. 


A. BARS I. 

Deputy Governor. 


J. J. AN J ARIA, 

P. N. DAMRY, 

Deputy Governor. 
Deputy Governor. 

G. BALASUBRAMANIAN, 


CAw/ Accountant. 




REPORT OF THE AUDITORS 

TO THE PRESIDENT OF INDIA, 

We, the undersigned Auditors of the Reserve Bank of India, do hereby report to the Central Government upon the Balance Sheet and Accounts of the 
Bank as at 30th June, 1967.? 

We have examined the above Balance Sheet with the Accounts, Certificates and Vouchers relating thereto of the Central Office and of the Offices at 
Calcutta, Bombay and Madras a nd with the Returns submitted and certified by the Managers of the other Offices and Branches, which Returns are incorporated 
in the above Balance Sheet, and report that where we have called for explanations and information from the Central Board such information and explanations 
have been given and have been satisfactory. In our opinion, the Balance Sheet is a full and fair Balance Sheet containing the particulars prescribed by 
and in which the assets have been valued in accordance with the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 and the Regulations framed thereunder and is properly 
drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Banks affairs according to the best of our information and the explanations given 
to us, and a* shown by the Books of the Bank. 


Daud , tht 2IJ( July, 1967. 


S. B. Billimoria & Co., 1 

Brahma yta & Co., \ Auditors. 

Rat & Rat, j 

[No. F- 3 ( 6 o)BC/ 67 -I 
D.N. GHOSH, Dy. Secy. 


$881 'I YNIASV/496I 'CS : VJQNI 40 JJXJLHZYO *HX Kjl)? ' ot $ 




-II 'l VNJAIV/A06I '« HpJMffXdflS ■ yWNj 40 4IX.4ZVO 3H4 to £ £ 


eportti i— 


(a) Government 

(0 Central Government . 
(£) State Governments 


(ft) Banks 


(0 Scheduled Com merc ial Banks 
(u) Scheduled State Co-operative Banks 
■'*) Non-Scheduled State Co-operative Banks 
irw) Other Banka . 


(c) Others 

30 * Payable 
Other liabilities 


Loons ana advance* at . — 

(f) Scheduled Commercial Banket 
(tf) State Co-operative Banka) . 

(iff) Other* 

70,19,944x10 Loans, Advance* tod Investment* from National Agricul- 
tural Credit (Long Term Operation*) ;Fundt — 

5,11,49,000 (a) Loans tnd Advances to:— 

(0 State Governments 


uS49^o,ax 

5.51.21.000 

1.06.41.000 
12,85, ocx) 


(a) Stite Co-operative Banks 
(ta) Central Land Mortgage Banks 
(ft) Investment in Central Land Mortgage Bank Debentures 

Loans and Advances from National Agricultural Credit 

(Stabfliaalxvo? Fund;— 

Loans and Advance* to State Co-operative Banks 
Loaai, Advances and Investments from National Indoatrial 
Credit (Long Term Operarkaia) Fund; — 


(a) Loans and Advance* to the Development Bank 

293,73 >48,000 (ft) Investment in bond*) debentures issued by the 
De v elopment Bank 
36 i 9 S, 4 o,ooc Other Assets 

39,32,254)00 


6 , 99 , 95^00 

156,63,144)00 

3,07,80,000 

28,32,344X10 

14 , 67 ^ 8,000 

7,30^0,000 

, 5 , t^ too 

5,24,154300 

31,91,35,000 


Rupee* . 851,52,23,000 


Rupee* 851,52,23,000 


•Include* Cash and Short-term Securities. 

♦•Exdudrng investments from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund and the National Indoatrial Credit (Long Term 
Oper at ions) Fund. 

^Excluding Loan* and Advance* from the Nations! Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fond, bat including temporary overdrafts to 
State Governments, 

tlndtodes Rs. NIL advanced to scheduled commensal hanks against usance biB* under section 17(4X0) erf the Reserve Bank of India Act. 
tt Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund and the National Agricultural Credit (Stabili- 
sation) Fund. 

Dated the 6th day of September, 1967. 


0'S 


***■ ®W] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; SEPTEMBER 28 , 1967 /ASVINA 1 , 1889 



Ad AaxiJi.t pursuant to the Reserve Bank ot I nils Act, 1934, for we we** eodad to* I’t day of September 1967. 

l»JL'g D3PABTMBNT 


Liabiutos 

Rs. 

Rs, 

Assn 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Notes held in the Banking Department , 

Nates in circulation 

42,17,92,000 

2893,42,96,000 


Gold Coin and Bullion 1— 

( 4 ) Held in India 
(6) Held outside India 

115,89,23,000 


Total Note* issued . 


2935,6o,S8,oos 

Foreign Securities .... 

166^2,00/000 





Total . 

Rupee Coin .... 

Government of India Rupee Securities 

Internal Bills of Exchange and 
other commercial paper . 


282,31/25,000 
78, 38/144x30 

2574 , 9 I, 59 j°°o 

Total Uabilttubi 


2935/0,8 >,000 

Total A*sm 


2935,60,88,000 

Dated the 6th day of September 1967. 




B. N. Adakkax, 
Dy. Governor. 


[No- J F.3(3)-BC/67.] 


3 506 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER. 2S, 1M7/ASVINA 1, 1889 [Pa*t 11- 




New Delhi, the 14 th SteptetHber 1967 

S O. 3400. — Statement of the Affairs oftt e Reserve Bank of India as on the 8th September, 1967. 

FAS tHO DKPA'tTWEWI 


LiatjiLrnss 


Rj, 

Asst* 


Ks. 

OritB! P. id Uo . 

• • 

5 , 00 , 00.700 

Notes ...... 

* 

I9i«>4, 64, 000 




Roper Coin ... 

• 

. 2 40.000 

Reserve Fund 

• * 

hC,00^>C,000 

S ro S !1 C<* fa *-*••«« 


• 3,68,000 

NatLrri Agiim'ru-ai 1 r 4 1 
Term Operaf cs- Fund 

(Loni, 

* • 

131 , 90^000 

Bills I orchard and Discounted— 

(a) Interns! .... 






0) Enema! 

. 

, 

National AftieL.lu.re! Credit 

U « cn s i>c h«r>ci 


25 , 00 , .Q 43 CO 

it) Go esexcEt Treasory bill* 

Balaice* Held Abroad" . , 

• 

296,13,^,000 

, 30,98,82,000 

NatU-cai C ■'cji st ir Oi • (Long T n 
t-T-ns) F , t • 

30 , 0 ^ 00,000 

limaneats"" .... 


190,87501,000 




Li a ,f a - d Advances to : — 






(1, Central Government 






£- St»>!- G >vtr'-m:nta@ 


20,2^,54,000 

Deposits— 



Lear* ind Advance* to t — 






it Stfa-dulrd CXnu:»xiai BnfciT . 

* a 

• 7 > 5 ^, 8 o,oto 

(a) O^emmect— 



in) State Co-operativ* Bank*)+ 

• « 

. 164,11,31,000 

fT Crn't^l Go rem e ‘ 


'J>oS s :,roo 

'HO O (t-e** .... 

* 

2,75,80,000 


8 (H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 28, 1967/ASVINA 1, 1889 3507 



t i i n ( s 


C 


C a - 

"I S .... 

' I 

( i 

v / ' ' J 

( < . 11. 

, ill p \ r is 
Other L t lt>*» 


J 3 ’. 


cr d rw* 

Co ■ r vr f "’tTe Bo u., 
ita s C '-'■pera'' ve Bank' 


Rupees 


R'. 


o 

co 


J.o Adv 


t _ i- m .aO'6 Agr cultural 

• Fuiu 


r 3>2 ,42, 


d\a - 


> 

u u. 




*30,40,0.. 
f 3 -7 ; 

9-L"o, 

ii 

272,26/ a, oo 
;o rr 19,"' r 

35,25,73, oj Od-er Asters 

817,51.71.°^ 


( . rfiouitaia C t 
«‘j £ a e Co- 2 athe os . 


* - f.'I tf ejm . 

, - . .0— 

1 Advances to 'he "eve! '■'-err n 


e a 

. t . i* aao 


lures 13 a 2 b. 


Re a 


I 

I 

23 , "2 31 •' • |' 

14,4s, 84,100 J l 

7,3°, 8- o' 1 


8,55.0 


5 , 24,15 f 0 


^ 1,85,2 5 cop 
817,51,71 000 


•Includes , usd' 1-te.rc Securities. J 

••Excluding 1 is." T , ts from the National Agricultural v^rean (i^ong T.nn Ope rations) Fund and the National la 1 n trial L.’s-dlt (Long Te'm I 

O, ei- 00s 1 Fore.. 

@ Exc'u Img an 1 * Advances from the National Ag'-cuburjl Credit (Long Term Operst om) FunL hu<- including temporary overdrafts to 
Mate Governments. 

t Includes Rs NIL aivanced to scheduled comnercial brVts a3im t usancebtPs under Sec ion 17(4X0) of the Reserve Bank of India Act. 

tfExclu ling 1 cuds sro Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund and the National Agnculturs Credit (Stabili- 
sation) Fund, 

pa ted the 13 th day of Spetember, 1967. 


THE CA 7 ETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23 , 1967 /ASVINA 1 , 1889 [Part II- 



8 


LlABiimES 

Ra. 

Ra. 

Assets 

Pi. 

Ra. 

Notes held in the Banking Depart- 
ment ... 

Notea in Circulation ■ < 

I9b4r64) ooc 

2954^1,93,0°° 


Gold Coin and BnHkm : — 

(a) Held in India .... 
0) Held outride India 

115.89^5^00 


Total Notes issued . 


2973,56,57.000 

Foreign Sectmtkr .... 

166,42,00,000 





Total . 

Rupee Coin ..... 

Goranment of India Rupee Securities 

Internal Bid* of Exchange and other 
sanmercia! paper 


282,31,25,000 

76,33,73,000 

2614,91.59,000 

Total Lubiutos 


2973»56,57>«» 

Total .Assets 


2973,56,57. °°o 


Dated the 13th day ot' September 1967, B. N, Adakkak, 

Dy. Governor. 
[No F. 3(3)-BC/67.) 


N 

li 

'1 

ij 


An Account pursuant to the Reaerve Bank of India Act, 1934, far the week ended the 8th day of September, 1967 

Inn DtPASTMBsr 


5(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 19G7/ASV1NA 1, 1889 3509 



$510 IHE GAZETTE O* iNDIA: SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ASVINA 1, 1889 [PAJiT it. 


S-O. 3401. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1849 (10 of 1949), the Central Government, on the recommenda- 
tion of the Reserve Bank of India, hereby declare that the provisions of section 9 
Of the said Act shall not apply to the New Bank of India Ltd., New Delhi, in 
respect of the agricultural lands measuring about 4,209 square yards held by it 
at Batala Road, Amritsar, till the 5th September, 1968. 

[No, F. 15(17)-BC/67.] 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the lltH September 1067 

8.0. 3402. — In tins Department Notification S.O. 2995, dated the 26th August, 
V967, for the words "till the 1st August, 1966 ’’, read ‘till the 1 st August, 1988-’ 

[No- F. 15(16)-BC/67.] 

V. SWAMINATHAN, Under Secy. 


; (Department of Revenue and Insurance) 

Estate Duty 

New Delhi, the 11th September 1967 

S.O- 3403. — The Central Government hereby renews the appointment of the 
undermentioned Valuers whose names were previously published as S.O. 2580 in 
Part II, Section 3(ii) of the Gazette of India, dated 1st August, 1964 hereto given 
in Schedule-1 & II for a further period of five years with effect from 12th July, 
1967 and the 18th July, 1967, respectively. 

Schedule-1 contains the names of persons whose present term of appoint- 
ment expired on Ilth July, 1967. 

Schedule-2 contains the names of persons whose present term of appoint- 
ment expired on 17th July, 1967. 

2. The scale of charges for the remuneration ol Valuers appointed by the 
Central Government for valuing any property shall be as fixed below and no 
such Valuer shall charge a fee at a scale higher than the scale so fixed: 

Provided that where two or more properties are required to be valued:— 

(i) by a Committee of Arbitration or by a third Valuer in pursuance of a 

single order, or 

(ii) by a Valuer, in pursuance of a single reference made by a Controller 

of Estate Duty or at the instance of an accountable person, 

all such properties shall be deemed to constitute a single unit of property for 
the purposes of fixing the fee payable to the Committee or the Valuer, as the 

case may be: 

Provided further that where the same property or properties, required to be 
valued by the same Committee of Arbitration or, as the case may be, by the 
same Valuer, la or are common to more than one case and the valuation relates 
to the same date, the Committee of Arbitration or the Valuer shall be entitled 
to charge fees at the scale fixed below only in one case and In the remaining case 
or cases the said Committee of Arbitration or Valuer shall be entitled to charge fees 
not exceeding rupees one hundred per case 

Scale of Charges 

On the first Rs. 50,000 ol' the property 50 valued J% 0 | me value. 

On the next Rs. 1 , 00,000 of the property so valued. f% of die value. 

On the balance of the property so valued. ... of the value. 

3. Notwithstanding anything contained in paragraph 2, the remuneration pay- 

" In ’ ' 1 « /- . 0 . 


Sec. 3(B)] 

THE GAZETTE OF 

INDIA: SEPTEMBER 28, 

1967/ASVINA 1, 1889 3511 



APPENDIX 




Schedule — I 


SI. No. 

Name 


Address. 


I. Engineers! Surveyors/ Architects 


i Shri Noorani, K, A., B,E. (Civil)j M.I.E. 
(Ind.) 


2 ' Shri Rathod, M. P. 

B.E. (Civil), M.I.E. (Ind.), 

M.R.S.H. (Lotjd.) M.A.S.C.E. (N.Y.) 

2 Shri Anand, R. G. 

G.D. (Arch.), F.I.I.A. 


4 Shri Kilra, K.R. 

B.A. (Hons.), C.E., M.I.E. 

5 Shri Venkatcsh Rao, C. R., B.Sc., B.E., 

A. M.I.E. 


c/o M/s. Karim Noorani St Co., 
Mustafa Building, 

Sir P. M. Road, Fort, - 
Bombay. 

c/o-M/s. M.P. Rathod & Co., 

6, Union Bank Building, 3rd Floor, 
Apollo Street, Fort, 

Bombay- 1. 

c/o M/s. Anand Aptay & Jhabvala, 
Architects & Town Planners, 

3/90, Connaught Circus, 

New Delhi. 

U-20, South Extendon-IT, 

New Delhi- 16, 

“Osmanla Buildings” 

Narasimharaja Road, 

Bangalore-2. 


1 Shri Chakravoni, N., M.A., F.C.A, 

2 Shri Dastur, D. N., F.C.A. 

3 Shri Kanga, J. R., F. C A. 

4 Shri Kapur, N. D„ F.C.A. 


II. Accountants. 

c/o M/s. N. Chakravorti & Co., 
Chartered Accountants, 

8/2, Hastings Street, 

Room No. 30, 2nd Floor, 
Calcutta-x. 

c/o M/s. D. N. Dastur & Co., 
No. 140-44, 5th Floor, 

New Stock Exchange Building, 
Apollo Street, Fort, 

Bombay-!. 

c/o M/s, J. R. Kanga A Co., 
Wadia Building, 

123, Mahatma Gandhi Road, 
Fort, Bombay-i. 

c/o M/s. N. D, Kapur & Co., 
Chartered Accountants, 

Flat 2-A, Shankar Market, 
Connaught Circus, 

New Delhi- 1. 


Schedule U 


SI. No. 


Name 


Address 


1 


2 


3 


Engineers /Surveyors/ Architects 


Shri Joglckar, P. G., 

B.E. (Bom.), M.I.E. (Ind.) 

Shri Mahal, B. S., 

M.I.E. (Ind.), A.M.I.E.E. 


27, New Palasia, 
Indore. 

Village Hangoli, 

P.O. Mustafabad, 
District Ambala. 


Shri Shah, P. C., 
B.E. (Civil) 


Dundiwala Nivas, 
Ashapuri Road, 
Navsari. 


[No. 1B/F. No. B/45/G7-E.D.1 
G. R. HEGDE Dy. Sect'. 



3512 the GAZETTE OF INDIA; SEPT. 2S, 1%7/ASVINA l, 1389 [Tart 11-Sec. S{U>[ 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance) 

ORDER 

Stamps 

New Delhi, the 23 rd September 1087 

8.0. 3404. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub section 
(I) of section 9 of the Indian Stamps Act, 1899 (2 of 1809), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby reduces, one-half, the stamp duty chargeable under the said Act 
on mortgages without possession by the Industrial concerns In the Union Terri- 
tories of Delhi and Chandigarh in favour of the Delhi Financial Corporation. 

2. This order shall be deemed to have taken effect from 1st April 1987. 

(No. 9-67— F. No. l/47/67- J Cus-VII'^tampa,] 
M. S. SUBRAMANYAM, Under Secy. 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance) 

Corrigendum 

New Delhi, the 16th September 1967 

8-0. 3405— In the Notification No. S.O. 2908 dated 24th AuRust 1967 published 
in Part II— Section 3— Sub-section (ii) of the Gazette of India dated 2nd 
September, 1967 at? Page 3141 for “Shri Sripatl Chatterjl" read “Shri R. K. 
Malhotra." 

[No. 102 (F.No. 46/14/66-ITB) .] 

WASIQ ALI KHAN. Dy. Secy- 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE OENERAL MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS. 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED HY THF MANAGER OF PUB \ TCATIONR, DELHI, 1967 



