REGISTERED No. D . 222. 


The Gazette min 


of India 


met groot 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


= 


= = = = = 


= = == = 


No. 7 ] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 12 , 1955 


NOTICE 


The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were publfshed upto the gih 
February 1955 - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


Iwue 
No. 


- - - 
Subject 


No. and date 


Iuued by 


- 


- 


- - 


36 


S . R . O . 282 , dated 

22nd January 1955. 


the Ministry of Law 


The Central Government ap 

pointa certain datcs on which 
the Wakf Act, 1954 shall 
comc into force in certain 
Stutes 


37 


S . R . O . 283, dared the 31st 

January 1995. 


Election Commission , Final list of candidates for 
India . 

clection to the House of the 
People from the Srivilli 
puthur Constituency . 


Ditto 


S . R . O . 284 , dated the 31st 

January 1955 . 


Final list of candidates for 

election to the Hol6e of th 
People from the Kanpur 
District (Central) Consti 
tuency . 


38 


S . R . O . 285 , dated the int 

February 1955 . 


Delimitation Com - 
mission , India . 


| 


Corrections in the Delimitation 

Commission s Final Order 
No. 19 , dated the 4th Octo 
ber 1954 . 


39 i S . R . O . 286 , dated the 2nd | Ministry of Finance | Exemption from Customs Duty 
February 1955 . 

(Revenue Division ) . leviable on certain articles 

when imported into India 
or into the State of Pondi 
cherry . 


40 


S . R . O , 287, dated the 3rd 

February 1955 


Final Order No, 22 . 


Delimitation Com - 
mission , India . 


- - 


- 


- 


( 297 ) 


298 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12 , 1955 


PART II - Sec. 3 


Issue 


No, and date 


Issued by 


1 


Subiect 


No. 


41 | S . R . O . 329 , dated the 4th 

Į February 1955 . 


Election Commission , Final list of candidates for 
India . 

election to the House of the 
Peopl: from Gorakhpur 
District (North ) Consti 
tuency , 


Ditto 


S . R . O . 330 , dered the 4th ! 

February 1955. 


l inal list of candidates for 

clcction 10 the House of the 
People from Lucknow District 
(Central) Constituency . 


42 


S . R . O . 331, dated the 3rd | Ministry of Infor- | 
February 1955. 

mation and Broad 
casting 


Certificate by the Central 

Government regarding the 
nature of certain films, 


43 


S . R . O . 332, dated the Ministry of Com - | Amendment made in 
sth Febi uary 1955 . 

merce and Industry . Second Schedule to 

Indian Tarifl Act, 1934 , 


the 
the 


44 


S . R . O . 333 , dated 

5th February 1955 . 


the Ministry of Finance 

Į (Revenuc Division ) 


Exemption from duty of 

customs leviable on certain 
goods when exported from 
India or the State of Pendi 
cherry . 


45 


S . R . O . 334, dated 
5th February 1955 . 


the 


Ditto 


Exemption from excise duty 

leviable on unmanufactured 
tobacco 


S 


. 


Copics of thç Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on indent to the 
Medager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be submitted so as to reach the 
Manager within ten days of the date of issue of this Gazette. 


PART II — Section 3 


Statutory Rules and Orders issued by the Ministries of the Governme 

of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) and Central Authoritw . 
( other than the Chief Commissioners ) . 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 


New Delhi, the 5th February 1955 


S . R . O . 339 . — In pursuance of sub - rule ( 5 ) of rule 114 of the Representation of 
the People ( Conduct of Elections and Election Petitions ) Rules, 1951, the namey 
of the person shown in column I of the Schedule below who having been nomina 
ted as a candidate for bye - election to the House of the People from the consti 
tuency specified in column 2 thereof, and having appointed himself to be his 
election agent at the said election , has , in accordance with the decision given 
by the Election Commission under sub - rule ( 4 ) of the said rulę , failed to lodge 
the return of election expenses within the time and in the manner required and 


PAFT II SEC . 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12 , 1955 

299 

- - - - - 
has thereby incurred the disqualifications under clause ( c ) of section 7 and 
section 143 of the Representation of the Periple Act, 1951 ( XLIII of 1951), 1s 
hereby published :- - 

SCHEDULE 
- - - - - - - 

- - - - - 
Name of the Candidate 

Name of constituency 
. 
I 

- - - - 
Shri Fagu Murmu, Village Baishnabporc , 

Midnapor Jhargram 
P . O . Sildah , Union - Belpahari ( 17) , 
P . S . Binpur, District Midnapore, 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


[ No . WB- P /55 -BYE ( 1).] 

By Order, 

P . N . SHINGHAL , Secy . 
- - - - - - - - - 

- - - 

- - - 
MINISTRY OF LAW 

Neu Delhi, the 2nd February 1955 
S . R . O , 340 . — The following Proclamation issued by the Governor of the Colony 
and Protectorate of Kenya is published below for general information : 

" PROCLAMATION NO . 4 

( S . A . J. & L . 94 / 3 ) 
THE MAINTENANCE ORDERS ENFORCEMENT ORDINANCE 

( CAP. 16 ) 

PROCLAMATION 
E . BARING - By His Excellency the Honourable Sir Evelyn Buring , Knight 

Commander of the Most Distinguished Order of Saint Michael and 
Saint George , Knight Commander of the Royal Victorian Order , 
Governor and Commander - in - Chief of the Colony and Protectorate of 

Kenya . 
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 10 of the Maintenance Orders 
Enforcement Ordinance and of all other powers thereunto enabling , 1 hereby 
proclaim that the said Ordinance shall extend to the Republic of India excepting 
the State of Jammu and Kashmir . 

Proclamation No. 87, dated the 1st day of October , 1938 (which appears at 
Page 536 of Volume V of the Law of Kenya is revoked . 

Given under my hand and the Public Seal of the Colony at Nairobi this 31st 
day of December , 1953. 
GOD SAVE TIIE QUEEN" . 

[ No. F.26 ( 1) / 54 - L. ] 

R . S . GAE, Dy . Secy . 
- - - - - - - - - - - 

MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 4th February 1955 
S . R . O . 341. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso in column 3 , 
against entry 3 ( a ) of the table annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 
1951, the Central Government hereby dirccts that the excmption enjoyed by 

Desai Shri Ramprasad Karsanji 

a Ruler of Vagavad , shall be valid only in respect of one revolver or pistol, 
one rifle , two breech loading guns and one muzzle loading gun . 

[No. 20 - Police. IV . ) 


300 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12, 1955 [PART II — SEC 

- - = 
S . R . O . 342. - In exercise of the powers conferred by entry 3 ( b ) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I of the Indian Arms Rules , 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify 

Tikayat Shri Pradip Chandra Singh Deo , 
a member of the family of the Ruler of Kharsawan for the purpose of that entry . 

[No. 21 -Police IV . ] 
S . R . O . 343 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 27 of the Indlan 
Arms Act, 1878 ( XI of 1878 ) , the Central Government is pleased to exempt the 
three parties of touring Judges of the Nepal Government proceeding to different 
districts in Nepal terai through Indian territory from all the prohibitions and 
directions contained in the said Act in respect of - 
( a ) First party 

One Mark 3 rifle No. 24227 with 25 twentyfive ) rounds of ammunition ; 
one 38 bore pigtol No. 11291 with 25 ( twentyfive ) rounds of ammunition ; 

( for Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal) . 
(b ) Second party 

One Mark 3 rifle No. 37761 with 25 ( twentyfive ) rounds of ammunition ; 
one 38 bore pistol No. 813836 , with 25 ( twentyfive ) rounds of ammunition ; 

( for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar ) . 
( c ) Third party 

One Mark 3 rifle No. 24227 with 25 (twentyfive ) rounds of ammunition ; 
one .38 bore pistol No. 90312 with 25 ( twentyfive ) rounds of ammunition : 
( tor Uttar Pradesh and Bihar ) . 

[No. 22 -P .IV . 
C . P . S . MENON , Under Socy . 


New Delhi, the 7th February 1955 
S . R . O . 344 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution read with Articles 313 and 372 thereot and Paragraph 10 of 
the Adaptation of Laws Order , 1950 , the President hereby directs that the follow 
ing further amendment shall be made in the Rules published with the notifica 
tion of the Government of India in the late Home Department No . F .9 - 19 / 30 - Esta , 
dated the 27th February , 1932, namely : 


In the Schedule to the said Rules , under the heading " Department of Com 
munications" and the sub -heading " Indian Posts and Telegraphs Department" 
and the category " ( A ) Services " for the entries relating to ( 1 ) Ministerial Sto 
in Clerical Grade ( including Divisional Store Depots ) and Stenographers and 
( ii ) All Class IV Staff under item 4 ( b ) office of the Controller of Telegraph 
Stores ( including Stores Depots ) the following shall be substituted namely : 


4 (h ) ( fice of the Controller of Telegraph Stores ( including stores Depots) 
Ministerial Staff in Controller of (a ) Officer of (i) Controller of Telegrapha . 
clerical grades ( in - Telegraph Stores . Telegraph En - & 
cluding Divisional 

gineering and ( v ) . 
Stores Depots ) and 

Wireless Ser 
Stenographers . 

vicc, Class II . 
( b ) Controller of All Chief Controller of 
Telegraph 

Telegraph Storts . 

Storon . 
All Class IV Staff . Officer of Tele- Oficer of Tele - All Controller of Telegraph 
graph Engincer - graph Engineer 

Stures. 
ing and Wireles ing and Wireless 
Survice Class II Service Class II 
or Administra - or Administra 
live Oncer. tive Officer. 
Controller of Controller of All Chie Controller 
Telegraph Stores Telegraph Scores 

Telegraph Storcs . 
( Jahalpur) (Jabalpur). 

[ No . 7 /25 / 54 -Ests.] 


PART II - SEC. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12, 1955 301 
- - - - 

- - - - 

- - - - - 
New Delhi, the 8th February 1955 
S . R . O . 345 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to articlc 309 
of the Constitution , read with articles 313 and 372 thereof and paragraph 19 of 
the Adaptation of Laws Order , 1950 , the President hereby directs that the 
following further amendments shall be made in the rules published with the 
Totification of the Government of India in the late Home Department No. F .9 / 19 / 
30 - Ests ., dated the 27th February , 1932 , namely : 

In the Schedule to the said rules, under the heading " Department of Labour" 
and sub - headings Omce of the Chief Adviser Factories and Inspectorate, Dock 
Safety , Bombay / Calcutta /Madras , under Class IV posts, in the last column for 
the words " Secretary , Ministry of Labour , the words " Deputy Secretary , Minis 
try of Labour shall be substituted . 

[No. 7 / 3 / 53 - Ests. ] 
S . P . MAHNA , Under Secy. 


- 


- - - 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 4th February 1955 
S .R . O . 346 - In pursuance of Clause ( 22 ) of Article 366 of the Constitution 
of dia the President is hereby pleased to recognise Thakor Shri Dilipsinhji 
A inhji as the Ruler of Punadra with effect from the 16th November 1954 
in succession to the late Thakor Shri Ajitsinhji Shivsinhji. 

[No. F . 15 /01/ 54 -PB.] 

V . VISWANATHAN , Joint Secy, 
— - — - — - 

MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 1st February 1955 
S . R . O . 347. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) section 3 
of the Diplomatic and Congular Omcers (Oaths and Fees ) Act , 1948 (XLI of 
1948) , the Central Government hereby authorises Shri S . C . Chatterji, Assistant 
Registrar, Embassy of India , Rome, to perform the duties of a Consular Agent 
with immediate effect and until further orders . 

[No. 95 - Cons / 55. ] 
I. S. CHOPRA , Joint Secy. 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE ( REVENUE DIVISION ) 

ESTATE DUTY 

New Delhi, the 4th February 1955 
S . R . O . 348 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) ot section 4 
of the Estate Duty Act , 1953 ( 34 of 1953) , the Central Government hereby 
directs that the following further amendment shall be made in the notification 

the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Revenue Division ), 
S .R . O . 2683 , dated the 16th August, 1954 , namely : 
In the Appendix to the said notification , under the head " II. 

ACCOUNTANTS " , Serial numbers 148 and 161 and the cntries 
relating thereto shall be omitted 

[No. 2 .) 
R . K . DAS , Dy . Secy. 


CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 12th February 1955 
S . R . O . 349. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 
43B of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 VIII of 1878 ) , the Central Government hereby 
directs that a drawback shall be allowed in accordance with , and subject to , 


302 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12 , 1955 PART II - SEC , 3 

- - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - - - - P Z = - - - - 
the provisions of the said section and any rules made thereunder, in respect 
of duty -paid foreign cork used in the manufacture of crown corks when such 
crown corks are manufactured in , and exported from , India or shipped as stores 
on board a ship proceeding to a foreign port. 

[No. 16 .1 

[ F . No. 32 / 14 / 54 -Cus. I. ) 
S . R . O . 350. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 3 ) of section 
43B of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 ( VIII of 1878 ), the Central Government hereby 
makes the following rules , the same having been previously published as required 
by sub -section ( 3 ) of the said section , namely : - - 

RULES 
1 . Short title . These rules may be called the Customs Duties Drawback 
(Crown Cork ) Rules, 1954, 
2 . Definitions. - In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, 

( a ) the Act means the Sea Customs Act , 1878 ( VIII of 1878 ) ; 
( b ) " cork means natural or composition cork imported into this country 

in the form of rod or disc , on payment of customs duty ; 
(c ) crown cork means a closure of the type used in an aerated water 

bottle , and fitted with a cork disc ; 
( d ) cork disc means a disc cut out of imported cork to size and shape 

suitable for being fitted into crown curks ; 
( e ) quarter means a period of three months beginning with the first day 

of Junuary , the Arst day of April , the first day of July , and the first 

day of October ; 
( f) “registered manufacturer means a manufacturer of crown corks , 

registered under rule 5 ; and 
( g ) section means a section of the Act . 
3 . Foods in respect of which drawback may be allowed . - - Subject to the pro - 
visions of the Act and these rules , a drawback shall be allowed in the case of 
crown corks (hereinafter referred to as the goods ) manufactured in , and exported 
from , India or shipped as stores for use on board a ship proceeding to a foreign 
port , in respect of any duty -paid cork actually used in the manufacture of such 
goods. 

4 . Period for which drawback admissible . A drawback under inese rules 
shall be admissible for the period during which a notification under sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 43B in respect of the goods is in force , 

5 . Registration of manufacturers . - ( 1 ) A drawback permissible under these 
rules shall apply only in respect of the goods manufactured by a person registered 
under , and for the purposes of, these rules by a Chief Customs Omcer , aufliorised 
in this behalf by the Chief Customs Authority (hereinafter referred to as the 
authorised Chief Customs Officer ) . 

( 2 ) An application for registration shall be made by a manufacturer of the 
goods to the authorised Chief Customs Officer. 

( 3 ) Such application shall describe the varieties , brands, if any, and other 
specifications of the goods in respect of which registration is desired and shall. 
In respect of every such variety or brand , furnish 
( a ) the description and quantity ( viz., the average thickness and diameter, 

and the average weight per 100 gross discs ) of different varieties of 
duty - paid cork used in the manufacture of one hundred gross crown 

corks; 
( b ) the average amount of customs duty based on the average value of 

importations of such varieties of duty -paid cork during the preced 
ing six months and the average duty paid thereon , on the quantities 

referred to in the foregoing sub - clauso . 
( 4 ) The authorised Chief Customs Officer may , if he is satisfied that the 
provisions of these rules have been complied with , register the applicant as a 
registered manufacturer , 

( 5 ) Subsequent to such registration , the registered manufacturer shall not 
alter the composition of any brand or variety of the goods or the shape and 
size of the imported corks used in their manufacture , without the prior per 
mission of the authorised Chief Customs Officer. 


- 


PART II — SEC . 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12, 1955 

303 
- - - -- - - 
( 6 ) Any registered manufacturer contravenilig the provision of the last pre 
ceding sub - rule shall render himself liablc to have his registration cancelled , 
besides any other penalties to which he may be subject under the Act and these 
rules. 

6 . Rate of drawback , — ( 1 ) Where the Customs Collector is satisfied that a 
- claim for a drawback is established under these rules , such drawback shall bo 
paid at the rate indicated hereiunder , 

( 2 ) The drawback of duty admissible under these rules on the shipment of 
the goods in the prescribed manner shall be seven - eight of the average amount 
of Customs duty paid on cork used in the manufacture of the goods. 

( 3 ) Such drawback shall be determined at the beginning of every quarter 
by the Chief Customs Authority or the authorised Chief Customs Officer on the 
basis of statements furnished by the registered manufacturer and verified by 
a Customs Officer , of the value of importations and duty paid thereon during 
the preceding 6 months or any longer period as the Customs Collector may 
deem convenient, of cork used in the manufacture of the goods . The drawback 
shall be determined as so much per one hundred gross of each variety or brand 
of crown corks. 

( 4 ) The rate of drawback so determined shall be in force for the quarter 
for which it has been determined under sub - rule ( 2 ) and shall apply to all ship 
ments made during that quarter from aliy port in India , 

7 . Manager of allowing drawback . Drawback shall be allowed on the ship 
ont of the goods from any port 111 India subject to the following conditions, 
namely , 
( a ) the shipper of the goods shall make a declaration on the relative ship 

ping bill, - 
( i ) that a claim for the drawback under section 43B is being made , and 
( ii ) that , to the best of his knowledge and belief , the composition of the 

goods and the size and shape of the cork discs used in the manu 
facture of the goods have not been altered subsequent to registra 

tion save in accordance with the provisions of rule 5 sub - clause ( 5 ) ; 
( b ) the shipper shall , in the shipping bill , furnish , in addition to inform 

ation required under section 29, such additional information as 
may , in the opinion of the Customs Collector, be necessary for the 
purpose of verifying the claim for a drawback , and , in particular , 
the Customs Collector may require such additional information in 

respect of the following matters, namely : 
( i ) the description of the goods including particulars of any brand or 

trade mark attached to the goods; 
( ii) the name of the registered manufacturer , his registration number 

and the Chief Customs Authority or the authorised Chief Customs 

Officer by whom he has been registered ; 
( iii) the variety of cork discs used , such as natural or composition , fine 

or superfine and 
(iv ) the particulars of the shape and size of the cork discs . 
8 . Powers of Customs Collector. For the purpose of enforcing these rules, 
the authorised Chief Customs Officer or the Customs Collector may 
( a ) require a registered manufacturer to produce any books of accounts 

or other documents of whatever nature relating to the imported 
cork used in the manufacture of the goods and the value and duty 

paid on such imported cork ; and 
( b ) require the production of such certificates , documents and other 

evidence, in respect of each claim of drawback as muy be necessary . 
9 . Access to manufactory. - A registered manufacturer of the goods in respect 
vf which a drawback is claimed under these rules shall be bound to give access 
to every part of his manufactory to any officer of the Central Government specially 
authorised in this behalf by the authorised Chief Customs Officer , to enable 
the officer 60 authorised to inspect the processes of manufacture, and to verify 
by actual check or otherwise the statements made in support of the claim for 
drawback . 

[No , 17.1 
[F . No . 32 / 14 /54- Cus.I.] 
JASJIT SINGH , Dy. Secy . 


. 


. 


. 12 , . 


Ini 


II- . 


ESSES 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 7th February 1955 
S . R . O . 351.- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
3 of the Land Customs Act, 1924 (XIX of 1924 ) , read with the notification of the 
Government of India in the late Finance Department (Central Revenues ) No. 5944, 
dated the 13th December, 1924, the Central Board of Revenue hereby appoints 
for the areas adjoining the foreign frontier separating West Pakistan from India . 
the officers of the Government of Punjab specified in the Schedule hereto an 
nexed , to be Land Customs Omcers within the jurisdiction of the Collector of 
Land Customs, Delhi. 

THE SCHEDULE 
( 1 ) All Police Officers of the Punjab Armed Police of and above the rank 

of Inspector ; 
( 2 ) All Police Officers of the Punjab Armed Police of and above the rank 

of Head Constable posted to the border districts of Gurdaspur , 

Amritsar and Ferozepore ; and 
( 3 ) All Police Officers of and above the rank of Head Constable posted in 

the District Police Force of the border districts of Gurdaspur , 
Amritsar and Ferozepore . 

[No. 28. ) 
W . SALDANHA , Secy . 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

New Delhi, the 12th February 1955 
S . R . O . 352 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Dhoties 
(Additional Excise Duty ) Act , 1963 ( 39 of 1953 ) , the Central Government here . 
by makes the following rules , namely : 

1. Short title -- These rules may be called the Dhoties Fixation of Collective 
Quota Rules , 1955 . 
2 . Deinitions. In these rules , unless the context otherwise requires, 
( a ) the Act means the Dhoties (Additional Excise Duty ) Act, 1953 , (99 

of 1959 ) ; 
( b ) collective quota means the total of the undivided quota fixed under 

section 3 , for all mills included in a particular group ; 
(c ) section means a Section of the Act ; and 
( d ) Textile Commissioner has the same meaning as in the Cotton Textiles 

( Control) Order , 1948. 
3 . Mulls in rospect of which a collective quota may be ixod . - Subject to the 
provisions of the Act, the Textile Commissioner may fix a collective quota in 
respect of mills , 

(i) which are under a common ownership or management; or 
( li) which may be placed by the Textile Commissioner , by order in writ 

ing, within a single group , 
4 . Applicationg for collectivo quotas . - Mills desirous of having a collective 
quota fixed for them shall apply to the Director ( Production & Development) . 
office of the Textile Commissioner , Bombay , in the Form annexed to these rules. 
Such applications shall be received in the office of the Textile Commissioner not 
less than 30 days before the commencement of the quarter for which the collec 
tive quota has been applied for, 

5 . Procedure for fixation of collective quota . - When the Textile Commissioner 
has fixed a collective quota for a group of mills , he shall by order in writing . 
intimate to the mills concerned and to the central excise officers in charge of the 
said mills , the collective quota Axed for the group , the period for which the 
collective quota shall be valid , the mill or mills from which dhoties shall be 
allowed to be cleared under the collective quota, and the respective share of the 
collective quota allocated to each such mill. 

6 . Alteration in collective quota once fixod . - -No alteration shall be permitted 
in the collective quota fixed for a group of mills or in its allocation as between 
the units in a group during the currency of the quarter to which the collective 
quota pertains . 


PARTISEC 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12 , 1955 


305 


7 Mills to furnish such informatyon etc , as may be required Mills applying 
for a collective quota shall produce or cause to be produced such documents or 
furnish such infoimation as the Textile Commissioner may from time to time 
require in support of applications. 

8 Power to issuo supplementary instructions. -- - The Textile Commissioner 
may , from time to time, issue written instructions providing for any matters 
incidental or ancillary to or arising out of these rules 


FORM OF APPLICATION 

( See rule 4 ) 
Important - This Form should be completed and sent to the office of the 
Textile Commissioner , CST Section , Ballard Estate , Bombay No 1 , Mills are 
advised in their interests to post the return under a certificate of posting or by 
registered post with an asknowledgement due 
1. Names of the mills which desire to form a group 

for the purpose of collective quota , 
2 Address of each mill in the group 
3. Tex Mark No. of each mill in the group . 
4 . State / States in which the mills are situated . 
5 . Name and address of the Managing Agents . 
6 Permissible quota for each mill in accordance with 

the provisions of the Dhoties ( Additional Excise 

Duty ) Act, 1963 , 
7 Reasons why a collective quota for the group of 

mills 19 desired 
8 . The name or names of the mills from which 

clearance of dhoties is desired and the propor . 
tion in which the collective quota is to be 

allocated . 
9 The period for which collective quota is required 
I hereby declare that the particulars given above , in so far as I can ascertain , 
are accurate and complete . 
Date 
Place 

Signature of the 

Managing Agents , 
NOTE - Collective quota will be allowed only for a full quarter or quarters 
and not for any portions thercof, 

[No 9 ( 21 ) -CT ( A ) /54 1 ] 
A K CHAKRAVERTY , Under Secy 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 1st February 1955 
S . R . O . 353 . - IDRA / 6 / 1 , In exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 of the 
Industries ( Development and Regulation ) Act, 1951 (LXV of 1951 ) , the Central 
Government hereby establishes for the group of scheduled industries engaged in 
the manufacture and production of telephones, telegraph apparatus and wireless 
communication apparatus, electric lamps, electric fans, batteries dry cells and 
storage, radio receivers and house service meters and panel instruments , a Deve 
lopment Council which shall consist of the following members, namely : 
I Shri T R Gupta Messrs Jay kinginecring Works, 183 - A , Prince being persons who 
Anwai Shah Road , Calculta -31. 

( in the opinion of 
2 . ShriR D . Char , Moysts Standard Batteries Ltd , 43 , Foihes Street, 1 the 

Cential 
Fort , Bombay 

Government are 
3 . Prof. S . K . Roy , Messta Bengul Electric Lamps Works, 7 , Old Court capable of icpre 
Housc Street ( 2nd Floor), Calcutta 

senting the interest 
4 . Mr. J . E . Reid , Meests General Electric Co of India (Mfg ) Ltd , ol owners of 
55 , Targtala Road , Garden Reach , Calcuttu - 24 

industrial under 
5 Shri R . K Phatak , C / O All India Radio Merchants Association , Fateh lakings in the 
Manzıl, Opera Housc , Bombay -4 . 

group of the said 
6 . Shri Y . A Fazalbhoy , Gencral Radio und Appliances Lid , 16 , New scheduled 
Qucens Road , Bombay - 4 

dustries. 


1 


306 


THE GAZEITE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12 , 1955 


( PART II - Sec. 3 


. 


7 . Scientific Adviser, Ministry of Defence , New Delhi 


. 


. 


. 


being porsons who in 
the opinion of the 
Central Govorni 
ment have special 
knowlodge of 
matters relating to 
the technical or 
other aspects of 

the group of the 
I said scheduled 

industries, 


8 . Shri B . V . Baliga , Officer on Special Duty , Bharat Electronic, 

Kashmir House , New Delbi. 


9. Shri Indravaden M . Oza, 33, Lajpatrai Road , Vile - Parle , Bombay - 24 being persons who in 

the opinion of the 
Central Govern 
ment are capable of 
representing the 
interest of persons 
cmpioyed in the 

industrial under 
10 . Shri R . J. Mohta , Secretary - Treasurer, Enginocring Mazdur Sabha taking in the 
Kaingar Sadan , Nawab Tank Road , Mazagaon , Bombay - Io . 

group of the said 
scheduled in 
dustries , 


II, Shri M . Hayath , Momber, Hydro -Electric, Central Water and Power being persone who in 
Commission , Bikaner House , New Delhi. 

the opinion of the 
Central Gover 
ment are capable of 

representing tho 
12 . Lt. Col. B . M . Chakravarty , Superintendent, Technical Division Es- interests of con 
tablishment, Dehra Dun . 

sumers of goods 
(With Shri J. C .Maitra , Assistant Superintendent of Development, TDE manufactured and 
( I. & E .) , Dohra Dun , as alternate member . 

I produced by the 
13 . Shri S . T . Thadani, Diroctor of Supplies, Shahjahan Road , New Delhi. 1 group of the said 

scheduled 

in 
dustries . 


2 . Shri T . R . Gupta shall be the Chairman of the said Development Council 

8. The Central Government hereby assigns the following functions to the said 
Development Council, namely : 
( 1 ) Recommending targets of production , co - ordinating production pro 

grammes and reviewing progress from time to time. 


( 2 ) Suggesting norms of efficiency with a view to eliminating waste , 

obtaining maximum production , improving quality and reducing 
costs . 


( 9 ) Recommending measures for securing the fuller utilisation of the 

installed capacity and for improving the working of the group of the 
said scheduled industry , particularly of the less efficient units . 


( 4 ) Promoting arrangements for better marketing and helping in the 

devising of a system of distribution and sale of the produce of the 
group of the said scheduled industries which would be satisfactory 
to the consumer . 


( 5 ) Promoting standardisation of products. 
(8 ) Promoting or undertaking the collection and formulation of statistics. 


( 7 ) Promoting the adoption of measures for increasing the productivity 

of labour, including measures for securing safer and better working 
conditions and the provision and improvement of amenities and 
Incentives for workers . 


[ No. 5 ( 14 ) IA ( G ) / 54.] 


7 , B , SAKSENA , Dy. Secy . 


PART II - SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12 , 1955 


307 


- - - 


- 


S . R . O . 854 / IDRA / 6 / 2 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 of the 
Industries ( Development and Regulation ) Act , 1951 ( LXV of 1951) , the Central 
Government hereby establishes for the scheduled industries engaged in the 
manufacture and production of electric motors and of machinery and equipment 
for the generation , transmission and distribution of electric energy ( excluding 
house service meters and panel instruments ) , a Development Council which shall 
consist of the following members , namely : 


1. Slui N . W . Gurjar, Mesara Kuloskar Electric Co., Lid., 460 /2 , 18th being puisons who 
Cross Malleswuram , Bangalore - 3 . 

in the opinion of 
2 . Shri T . S . Sitapati, Messrs Nationul Insulated Cable Co. of India Ltd ., [ the Central 
4 , Dalhousie Square East, Calcutta 

Government are 
3 . Mr. C . M . Humfrcy , Director, Messrs Associated Electrical Industriesa capable of re 
Mfg . Co., Ltd ., Calcutta , 

presenting the 
4 . Mr. A . Rutishauser , Head of Electrical Deptt ., Volcas Ltd ., 19 , Graham interest of owners 
Road , Ballard Estate , P . O . Bag 10008 , Bombay - I . 

of industrial under 
5 . Mr. T , G .May , Managing Director , Gencral Electric Co . of India Ltd . I takings in the 
" Magnate House " , Chittaranjan Avenue, Calcutta , 

said scheduled 
industries. 


6 . Shri N , N . Tengar, Technical Director, Tata Hydro - Electric , Bombay being persons who 

in the opinion of 
the 

Central 
Government have 
special knowledge 
of matters re 
lating to the 
technical or other 
aspects of tho said 

scheduled in 
7 . Prof. M . S . Thacker, D 50 gr, Indian Institute of Science, Bangaloro dustries . 


8 . Shri K , M . Chingappa, Deputy Chief Electrical Enginçer, Damodar boing persons who 
Valley Corporation , Anderson House , Alipore , Calcutta - 27 . 

in the opinion of 
the Central 
Government havo 
special knowledgo 

matters 
relating to the 
technical or other 
aspects of the 
said scheduled 

industries . 
9. Shri M . S . Balsawar, Messrs Coorla Spg. and Wvg . Mills Co., Ltd ., being a person who 
Kurla , Bombay , 

in the opinion of 
the 

Control 
Government la 
capable of repro 
senting the 
interests of per 
song employed la 
industrial under 
takings in the 
said scheduled 
industrles . 


10 . Shri M . Hayath , Member , Hydro -Electric , Central Water and Power being persons who 
Commission , Bikaner House , New Delhi, 

in thc opinion of 
11. Shrl P . C . Mookerjee , Member (Engineering), Rallway Board , New | the Central 
Delhi. 

Government are 
12 . Shri D . V . Kohli, S . O . I., -10 - C . s Branch , Kashmore House, New capable of row 
Delhi. 

presenting the 
loterests of con 
sumerg of goods 
manufactured and 

produced by the 
13 . Shri S . T . Thadani, Director of Supplies, Directorate General of said Scheduled 
Şupplies and Disposals, New Delhi. 

industries. 


308 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12 , 1955 


[Part 11Sec, 3 


2 . One more person who in the opinion of the Central Government is capable 
of representing the interests of persons employed in industrial undertakings in 
the said scheduled industries shall be appointed by the Central Government to 
be a member of the said Development Council. 

3 . Shri N . N . Icngar shall be the Chairman of the said Development Council. 

4 . The Central Government hereby assigns the following functions to the said 
Development Council , namely : 
( 1 ) Recommending targets of production , co -ordinating production pro 

grammes and reviewing progress from time to time. 
( 2 ) Suggesting norms of cfficiency with a view to eliminating waste , 

obtaining maximum production , improying quality and reducing 

costs . 
( 9 ) Recommending measures for securing the fuller utilisation of the 

installed capacity and for improving the working of the said 

scheduled industries , particularly of the less efficient units 
( 4 ) Promoting arrangements for better marketing and helping in the 

devising of a system of distribution and sale of the produce of the 
said scheduled industries which would be satisfactory to the 

consumer . 
(5 ) Promoting standardisation of products. 
( 6 ) Promoting or undertaking the collection and formulation of statistics . 
( 7 ) Promoting the adoption of measures for increasing the productivity 

of labour, including measures for securing safer and better working 
conditions and the provision and improvement of amenities and 
incentives for workers . 

[No. 5 ( 14 ) IA ( G ) / 54. ] 
B . B . SAKSENA, Dy. Secy . 


DEPARTMENT OF ATOMIC ENERGY 

Bombay, the 1st February 1955 
S . R . O . 355. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 10 ot the Atomic 
Energy Act, 1948 (XXIX of 1948 ), the Central Government hereby directs that 
the following amendments shall be made in the Atomic Energy (Control of Pro 
duction and Use ) Order , 1954 , namely : 
In the said Order 
( 1) clause 4 shall be re - numbered as sub - clause ( 1 ) of clause 4 and after 

sub - clause ( 1 ) as so renumbered , the following sub - clause shall be 

inserted , namely : 
“ (2 ) A licence issued under sub - clause ( 1 ) shall be effective throughout 

the territories of India to which the Act extends." ; 
( 2 ) clause 5 shall be re -numbered as sub - clause ( 1) of clause 5 and after 

sub - clause ( 1 ) as so renumbered , the following sub - clause shall be 

inserted , namely : 
" (2 ) a license issued under sub -section ( 1 ) shall be effective throughout 
the territories of India to which the Act extends" . 

[ No . RMD / 1 (4 )/ 533 -1376 . ] 

N . K . DRAVID , Joint Sery . 
MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

(Agriculture ) 

New Delhi, the 2nd February 1955 
S . R . O . 356 . - Under Section 4 ( VII ) of the Indian Cotton Cess Act, 1923 ( XIV 
of 1923 ) the Central Government are pleased to renominate Shri R . G . Saraiya 
as a representative of Cooperative Banking on the Indian Central Cotton Com 
mittee, with effect from the 1st April, 1955. 

[No. F .1 - 12 / 54 - Com .II. ] 
R . L , MEHTA , Dy. Secy . 


- 


PART II Suc 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12 , 1955 

309 
- - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - = - - - - - - - - - - - - = - - - - - - - - 

(Agriculture ) 

Neu * Delhi, the 2nd February 1955 
S . R . O . 357 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 
7 of the Indian Oilseeds Committee Act, 1946 ( IX of 1946 ) the Central Govern 
ment is pleased to appoint Shri R . S . Krishnaswamy , I. Ç . S ., Vice - President, 
Indian Council of Agricultural Rescarch and er - officio Additional Secretary to 
the Government of India , Ministry of Food & Agriculture, to be the President of 
the Indian Central Oilseeds Committee with effect from the 15th January , 1955 , 
vice Shri K . R . Damle , I. C . S ., who has proceeded on deputation abroad , 

[ No . F .5-5 /55 - Com -I.] 


New Delhi, the 4th February 1955 
S . R . O . 358. - In pursuance of the provisions of Sub -Section ( 1 ) of Section 4 
of the Indian Oilseeds Committee Act , 1946 ( IX of 1948 ) , the State Government 
of Madhya Pradesh have re -nominated Shri S . N . Mushran , M . L . A ., Narasimhpur, 
District Hoshangabad , as a member of the Indian Central Oilseeds Committee , 
with effect from the 1st April, 1955. 

[No. F .6 - 1 / 55 -Com - I.] 


New Delhi, the 5th February 1955 
8 .R . O . 359 .- - The following draft of a further amendment to the Indian Oil 
Keedy Committee Rules, 1947, which it is proposed to make in exercise of the 
powers conferred by section 17 of the Indian Oilseeds Committee Act, 1946 ( IX 
of 1946 ), is published as required by sub - section ( 1 ) of the said section , tor the 
information of all persons likely to be affected thereby ; and notice is hereby 
given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 10th 
March , 1905 . 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 

Draft Amendment 
For sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 20 of the said Rules , the following sub - rule shall be 
substituted , namely :- - - 
" ( 2 ) A member of the Committee who is not in the service of the Govern 

ment shall be entitled to draw in respect of any journey performed 
by him for the purpose of attending & meeting of the Committee or 
of a duly constituted Sub -committee thereof, such travelling and 
halting allowances as would be admissible in respert of 
such journeys to Government servants of the first grade serving 
under the Central Government." 

(No. F .5 - 74 /54-Com - I.] 

F . C . GERA , Under Secy . 
MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 4th February 1955 
S ,K . O . 360. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -sections ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) 
of section 7 of the Drugs Act, 1940 (XXIII of 1940) , the Central Government 
hereby directs that the following further amendment shall be made in the 
notification of the Government of India , in the Ministry of Health No. 
F . 1 - 3 / 47 - D ( II), dated the 13th September, 1948 , constituting the Drugs Consulta 
tive Committee , namely : - - 
In the said notiAcatlon , under the heading Nominated by State Govern 

ments for entry 10 , the following entry shall be substituted , 

namely : 
* ( 10 ) Major K . N . Rao, M . D ., D .G .O ., F . C . C .P ., F . J. C . S ., Primary 
FRCS. (Eng.) , Director of Medical Services, Andhra State " 

( No. F. 4-2 / 55 -D .] 
KRISHNA BIHARI, Under Secy . 


dia , riendment" shes, Central Goveand (2 ) 


310 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12 , 1955 
THE 


[ PART II - SEÇ 3 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 8th February 1955 


S . R . O . 361.- In exercise of the powery conferred by Section 17 of the Cinema 
tograph Act 1952 (XXXVII of 1952 ) the Central Government hereby exempts 
cinematograph exhibition of Alms in the premises of educational institutionis in all 
part C States from the operation of section 10 of the aforesaid Act subject to 
the following conditions: 
1. Only films of a predominantly educational nature, certified as such by 

the Central Board of Film Censors or one of the former State Boards 
or Alms approved as scientific films, Alms intended for educational 
purposes , films dealing with news and current events , of docu 
mentary films approved by the Film Advisory Board shall be so 

exhibited or permitted to be exhibited , 
2 No film which has been certifled by the Central Board of Film Censors 

us a former State Board of Film Censors as suitable for public exhi 
bition restricted to adults only shall be exhibited or permitted to 

bc exhibited to a person who is not an adult, 
3 . No film which has been declared as uncertified or whose exhibition has 

been suspended under the Cinematograph Act 1952 (XXXVII of 

1952 ) shall be exhibited or permitted to be exhibited . 
4 No admission fee , except to the extent required to cover expenses, shall 

be charged . 
5 No person other than students and staff of the Institution , Members of 

the Managing Committees of the Institutions and any guest specially 
invited by the authorities or the Institutions and those cnumerated 

under condition (11 ) below shall be admitted to the show , 
6 . Only 16 mm , non - inflammable or 35mm . non - inflammable Alms and film 

strips shall be exhibited or permitted to be exhibited . 
7. No advertisement films shall be exhibited or permitted to bc exhibited . 
8. The licensing authority shall be informed at least 48 hours in advance 

of the time and place of such exhibition , 
9. All Institutions which avail themselves of this exemption shall main 

tari a register of the Alms exhibited and comply with any other 
directions that may be issued in this behalf by the State Govern 
ment. The register shall be open to inspection by duly authorised 

officers of the State Government. 
20. This exemption shall be valid for a period of onc year with effect from 

the date of issue of this notification , unless revoked earlier . 
11. Employees of the State Government, members of the Central Board of 

Film Censors and its Advisory Panels and Regional and Assistant 
Regional Officers of the Board engaged in the discharge of their 
official duties shall be admitted to the place where the exhibitions 
are held and to the film shows 

[No. 6 / 6 /45 FC .] 
D . KRISHNA AYYAR , Under Secy . 


( Central Board of Film Censors ) 

ORDER 

Bombay , the 1st February 1955 
S . R . O . 362. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the Arst proviso to sub 
rule ( 9 ) of rule 22 of the Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules , 1951, the Chairman , 
Central Board of Film Censors , hereby directs that the applications for certifica 
tion of " Bengal films" and "Madras films" , excepting shots not exceeding 
2 ,000 feet in 35 mm , and 800 feet in 16 mm . other than newsreels and trailers, 
Imported into India from abroad shall be made and delivered to the Regional 
Omcer , Central Board of Film Censors , Bombay, with effect from the 15th 
February , 1955 . 

[No. 63 / SEC / 54.] 
B . D . MIRCHANDANI, 

Chairman , 


311 


PART II - ŞLC 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12, 1955 
- - - = = = = = 

- = = = = = = - = = 
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 

( Transport Wint ) 

MERCHANT SHIPPING 

New Delhi, the 4th February 1955 
S . R . O . 363. The following draft of certain further amendments to the Indian 
Merchant Shipping ( Load Line ) Rules, 1934 , which it is proposed to make in 
exercise of the powers conferred by section 219 of the Indian Merchant Shipping 
Act , 1923 (XXI of 1923 ) , is published as required by the said section for the 
information of all persons likcly to be affected thereby ; and notice is hereby given 
that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 2nd March 1965 


Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 

Draft Amendments 
In the said Rules , 

( 1 ) In clause ( a ) of sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 3 , after the words and that" , the 
words " having regard to the period for which the load line certificate is to be 
issued or renewed ” shall be inserted ; 

( 2 ) in rule 15 , the last sentence " Where end coamings are protected , the 
Assigning Authority may modify these requirenients " shall be omitted ; 

( 3 ) in rule 16 % 
( i) after the first sentence , the following sentence shall be inserted , namely : — 
" The ends of the wood covers shall be protected by galvanised steel bands 

efficiently secured ." ; 
( ii) the following Note shall be added at the end , namely : 
" NOTT - The provision made in the second sentence shall not apply to wood 

covers in use prior to the 4th February , 1955 , but when in the opinion 
of the Assigning Authority the renewal of any such ( over becomes 

necessary, the provision shall be given effect to ." ; 
( 4 ) to rule 19, the following sentence shall be, added , namely : 
" Cleats shall be of a pattern approved by the Assigning Authority and 

shall be set to fit the taper of the wedges; but this provision shall not 
apply to any ship the keel of which was laid before the 4th Febrụary , 
1955 ." ; 


(5 ) in rule 20 , sub - rule ( b ) shall be rclettered as sub - rule ( c ) , and after 
sub - rule ( a ) , the following sub - rule shall be inserted , namely : 
“ ( b ) Wedges shall be made from tough wood cut to a taper of 1 in 6 and 

shall be not less than 1 inch thick at the toe ; but this provision shall 
not apply to any ship the keel of which was laid before the 4th 

February , 1955 ." ; 
(6 ) for rule 21, the following rule and Note shall be substituted, namely : 

“ Security of hatcllway covers 
21. Where the coamings are required to be 24 inches high , steel bars or 

other equivalent means shall be provided for efficiently and inde 
pendently securing each section of hatchway covers after the 

tarpaulins are battened down . 
At all other hatchways in exposed positions on free -board and superstruc 

ture decks , ring bolts or other fittings for lashings shall be provided . 
Where the hatchway covers extend over intermediate supports, steel bars 

or their equivalent shall be itted at each end of each section of the 

covers. 
NOTE . -- The provisions of this rule shall apply to any ship ( i ) the keel of 

which is laid on or after the 4th February, 1955 , and ( ii ) the keel 
of which was laid before the said date , if in the opinion of the Assign 
ing Authority compliance with such provisions is reasonable and 
practicable " ; 


312 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12 , 1955 [PART II – Sec. 3 

-- - - - - - - 

- 

- - - - 
( 7 ) in rule 31 

( 1 ) in sub - rule ( a ) , the last sentence " Cast iron shall not be accepted for such 
valves where attached to the sides of the ship ." shall be omitted ; 
( ii ) to sub - rule ( c ), the following sub - rule shall be added , namely : -- 
" ( d ) Cast iron shall not be accepted for valves and discharges led through 

the ship s sides below the treeboard deck or through the sides of 

enclosed superstructures : 
Provided that the foregoing provision shall not apply to any ship the keel 
of which was laid before the 4th February, 1955 ." 

[ No. 42 -MA ( 3 ) /54.) 

S. K . GHOSH , Dy. Secy. 
- - - - --- - 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS 

(Posts and Telegraphs) 

New Delhi, the 4th February 1955 
S . R . O . 364 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section of the Indian 
Telegraph Act , 1885 (XIII of 1885 ) the Central Government hereby directs that 
with effect from the 18th March , 1955 , the following further amendment shall be 
made in the Indian Telegraph Rules, 1951, namely : - : 
In the first column of the Table annexed to sub - rule (i ) of rule 430 of the 

said rules, under the heading " Exchanges " , the words " Jharia " , " Loya 
bad " and " Sinidih " shall be omitted . 

[ No. PHA -48- 11 / 52. ] 


S . R . O . 388 . In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rule ( 5 ) of rule 490 
of the Indian Telegraph Rules , 1951, the Central Government hereby specifies tho 
16th day of March , 1955 , as the date from which the message rate system shall be 
introduced in the Dhanbad , Jharia , Katrasgarh , Loyabad and Sinidih exchanges . 

[ No. PHA -48-11 / 62.1 
V . M . BHIDE , Dy. Secy , 


New Delhi, the 5th February 1955 
S . R . O . 386 . - Whereas on January 21, 1956 , an accident occurred five miles 
south of Gauhati aerodrome to a Dakota aircraft VT -COZ of the Indian Airlines 
Corporation , engaged , in a scheduled flight from Calcutta to Gauhati on a 
freighter service, regulting in the death of all the three members of the crew 
on board , 

And whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is expedient to hold 
a formal investigation of the said accident. 

2 . Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by rule 75 of the Indian 
Aircraft Rules, 1937, the Central Government directs that a formal investigation 
of the said accident be held . 

The Central Government is further pleased to appoint Shri N . S . Lokur, 
Chairman , Railway Rates Tribunal and Air Transport Licensing Board, to hold 
the said investigation . 
The Central Government is also pleased to appoint: 
( 1 ) Shri K , L . Puri, Director of Aeronautical Inspection , Civil Aviation 

Department; and 
( 2 ) Capt . K . Vishwanath , Divisional Operations Manager , Air India Inter 

national 
to act as Assessors to the said investigation , 

[ No. 17 - A / 3 - 55 . ) 


PART II - Stc. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12, 1955 

313 
= 

- - - - - - 
S . R . O . 367. . Whereas on Fcbruary 2 , 1955, an accident occurred ncar Nagpur 
to s Dakota aircraft , VT -LVB , ( 1 the Indian Airlines Corporation , engaged in a 
scheuule , Hisht from Nagpur to Delhi on the north -bound night air service , 
Esultat 111 che ueath of all the passengers and the four members of the crew 
on bouill , 

licht where it peut , tov . Crnital Government that it is expedient to hold 
a focinul investigation of the said accident. 

2 . INOX , therefore, in exercise vi the powers conferred by rule 75 of the Indian 
A1241 utu Kules , 1937 , the Centrul Government directs that a formal inyestigation 
of the said accident be held , 

The Central Government is further plcased to appoint Shri N . S . Lokur , 
Chairman , Kuilway Rates Tribunal and the Air Transport Licensing Board , to 
hold the said investigation , 
7 he Central Government is also plcased to appoint: 
( 1 ) Shri K . L . Puri, Director of aeronautical Inspection , Civil Aviation 

Department; and 
( 2 ) Capt. K . Vishwanatha , Divisional Operations Manager, Air India Intor 

national 
to act as Assessors to the said investigation . 

[ No. 17 - A / 4 - 55 . ] 

B . N . JHA, Secy . 
- - 

- - 
MINISTRY OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH 

New Delhi, the 1st February 1955 
S .K . 0 . 368 . - in exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Mines and 
Minerals ( Regulation and Development ) Act, 1948 (LIII of 1948 ) , the Central 
Governincnt hereby directs that the following further amendment shall be made 
in the Mineral Concession Rules , 1949, namely : 

In sub - clause ( b ) of the proviso to clause (il) of rule 46 of the said Rules, 
for the words " cxceeding such limits" , the words " not exceeding twice such 
limits " shall be substituted . 

[NO. MII - 159 (5 ) / 54 . ] 
T , GONSALVES , Dy , Secy . 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


New Delhi, the 4th February 1955 
S . R . O . 869. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Mines 
and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1948 (LIII of 1948) , the Central 
Government hereby directs that the following amendments shall be made 
in the Mineral Concession Rules , 1949 , namely : 

In the said Rules 
1. In rule 13 
( a ) in the first sentence of sub -rule ( 1 ), the words " and if he is an indivi 

dual olher than a citizen of India , unless the prior approval of the 

Central Government has been obtained ” shall be onnitted ; 
( b ) after sub -rule (1) , the following sub -rule shall be inserted , namely : 
" ( 1 - A ) ( a ) Where such person is a company, it shall be incorporated 

under the Indian Companios Act , 1913 (VII of 1913 ) ; and where 
such person is a partnership firm , it shall be registered under the 

Indian Partnership Act, 1932 ( IX of 1932). 
( b ) Where such person is an individual and is not a citizen of India 

or where such person is a partnership firm which consists of one or 
more partners who are not citizens of India , the State Government 
shall not grant any prospecting licence to such person without the 
previous approval of the Central Government." 


- 


= 


314 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12, 1955 [PART IL- SEC. 3 

STE 

- - - -- 

- - - 

- -- -- - - 
2 . In rule 26 – 
( a ) in the first sentence of sub - rule ( 1 ) , the words " and if he is an 

individual other than a citizen of India , unless the prior approval 

of the Central Government has also been obtained" shall be omitted ; 
(b ) after sub -rule (1), the following sub -rule shall be inserted , namely : 
“ ( 1 - A ) ( a ) Where such person is a company , it shall be incorporated 

under the Indian Companies Act , 1913 (VII of 1913 ) ; and where 
such person is a partnership firm , it shall be registered under the 

Indian Partncrship Act , 1932 ( IX of 1932 ) . 
( b ) Where such person is an individual and is not a citizen of India 

or where such person is a partnership firm which consists of one 
or more pariners who are not citizens of India , the State Government 
shall not grant any mining lease to such person without the 
previous approval of the Central Government.” 

[No. M . II- 152 (33) / 54 .] 
S .R . O . 370 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 8 of the Mines 
and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1948 (LIII of 1948 ), the Central 
Government hereby directs that subject to its control the powers exercisable by 
a State Government under the Mineral Concession Rules, 1949, shall be exercised 
in the State of Manipur by the Chief Commissioner of that State . 

[ No . M .II. 152 ( 101) / 5 
M . MALHOTRA , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING AND SUPPLY 

New Delhi, the 2nd February 1955 
S . R . O . 371. — The following draft of further amendments in the Petroleum 
Rules , 1937, which it is proposed to make in exercise of the powers conferred by 
Bection 4 and sub - section ( 1 ) of section 29 of the Petroleum Act, 1934 (XXX of 
1934 ) , is published , as required by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 29, for the informa 
tion of all persons likely to be affected thereby ; and notice is hereby given that 
the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 28th February , 1955 . 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date specified will be considered by the Central 
Government. 

Draft Amendment 
In sub -rule ( 1) of rule 7 of the said Rules, 

( a ) the port of Chittagong shall be omitted ; 
(b ) for the port of Karachi , the port of Kandla shall be substituted . 

[No. S & PII - 104 ( 1 ) /65.] 
U . N . SRIVASTAVA , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 

New Delhi, the 4th February 1956 
S .R . O . 372. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947 ) , the Central Government hcrcby publishes the following award 
of the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the matter of an application under section 
33A of the said Act from Shri Sourcndra Kumar Mukerjee , a workman of the 
Lodna Colliery Company ( 1920 ) Limited . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD 

APPLICATION No. 76 OF 1954 

( arising out of Reference No. 5 of 1955 ) 
In the matter of an application U / s 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947. 

PRESENT 
Shri L . P . Dave, B .A ., LLB . - Chairman . 


PART II - - Sec . 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12 , 1955 - 315 

= - - - - - - - - - - 

PARTIES 
Sourendra Kumar Mukerjce , c / o Koyla Mazdoor Panchayat, Jharia P .O ., 
Dist. Manbhum - -Complainant. 

Vs. 
Lodna Colliery Company (1920 ) Limited , Jhasia P . O ., Dist. Manbhum 
Opposite Party . 

APPEARANCES 
Shri Lalit Burman , General Secretary , Loyabad Labour Union , and Secre 

tary , Bihar Trade Union Congress , P . O . Dhanbad , Dist. Manbhum 

For the Complainant. 
Shri U . S . Majumdar , Personal Assistant to the General Manager, M / 8 Lodna 

Colliery Co . ( 1920 ) Ltd ., Post Box No . 135 , Jharia , Bihar - For the 
Opposite Party . 


AWARD 
This is a complaint under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

2 . The complainant alleged that he had been in thc employment of the 
pposite party since 25th September 1946 ; that the opposite party refused work 
Urally to him from 22nd February 1954 to 27th April 1954 ; but allowed him to 
resume work on 28th April 1954 . He then worked from 28th April 1954 to 4th 
May 1954 ; but was discharged on 5th May 1954 without any notice or change 
sheet. This action of the opposite party was in violation of the standing orders 
and also against the provisions of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, as it 
was taken during the pendency of Reference No . 5 of 1954 without the express 
permission in writing from this Tribunal. Hence this complaint. 

3 . The opposite party contended that it had not yet discharged the complainant 
as alleged , and hence the present complaint was premature and was not main 
tainable . It was then allcged that there was an illegal strike at the colliery 
from 8th February 1954 to 19th March 1954, and that during this period loyal 
workers were prevented from attending to their legitimate duties by threats , 
intimidation and show of violence . It was further alleged that the complainant 
committed several acts of misconduct as detailed in the written statement. On 
1st April 1954 , he was charge sheeted for the same. After completing necessary 
enquiries the opposite party made an application under Section 33 of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act to the All India Industrial Tribunal (Colliery Disputes) for 
permission to dismiss the complainant. That application is still pending . It was 
urged therefore that the complainant should be dismissed. 

4 . It is an admitted fact that the complainant was working as an electrical 
apprentice at the Lodna Colliery from about 1946 . It is also an admitted fact 
that there was a strike at the Lodna Colliery between 23rd November 1953 to 21st 
December 1953 and again from 8th February 1954 to 19th March 1954. The com 
plainant s case is that he was refused work from 22nd February 1954 to 27th 
April 1954 but he was allowed to work from 28th April 1954 to 4th May 1954 
when his services were terminated orally . He has Aled the present complaint 
under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act alleging that the opposite party 
had terminated his services during thc pendency of Reference No. 5 of 1954 
without obtaining the permission in writing from this Tribunal as required by 
Section 33 of the Act . 


5 . A dispute between the management of Lodna Colliery and their workmen 
was referred for adjudication to this Tribunal by the Government of India , 
Ministry of Labour, Order No. LR . 2 ( 16 ) / 54, dated 20th April 1954 and was 
numbered as Rcfcrcnce No . 5 of 1954 . If the opposite party took any action 
against any of its employees before 20th April 1954 , it could not amount to a 
breach of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, " o far as the proceedings of 
Reference No . 5 of 1954 ( pending before this Tribunal) were concerned ; because , 
at that time, there was no reference pending before this Tribunal between the 
management of the Lodna Collicry and thcir workmen . Mr. Burman , who 
appeared for the complainant, conceded that he could not ask for any relief in 
respect of the alleged stoppage of work between 22nd February 1954 to 27th 
April 1954. He howcver urged that the subscquent stoppage of work from 5th 
May 1954 amounted to a breach of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, as 
admittedly at that time Reference No. 5 of 1954 was pending before this Tribunal. 

6 . The opposite party has urged that it has not dismissed the complainant and 
also that it has made an application to the All India Industrial Tribunal (Colliery 


AX 


316 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12, 1955 [PART II - Sec . 3 
- - - - - - - - = = = 

- - = - = = - - 
Disputes ) under Section 33 for permission to dismiss him and that the said 
application is still pending before that Tribuna ). In view of this contention of 
the opposite party denying that they have dismissed the complainant, the only 
question that was urged before me was that the opposite party had no right to 
withhold the wages of the complainant even during the period of suspension . 
The standing orders of the colliery prohibits suspension of an employee without 
pay , whether pending an enquiry or as a punishment, for a period exceeding ten 
days. It was therefore urged on behalf of the complainant that the opposite 
party was not justified in withholding the payment of wages to the complainant 
for a period beyond 15th May 1954 . On the other hand , the opposite party urged 
that it had not susponded the complainant but that the complainant had been 
absent from duty from February onwards ( as he had joined the strike ) . The 
opposite party denied that the complainant had been allowed to work from 28th 
April 1954 to 4th May 1954 . 


7 . The first question for my consideration therefore is whether the com 
plainant had been allowed to work from 28th April 1954 to 4th May 1954 as 
alleged by him . The complainant has been cxamined at Exhibit 25 . He has 
stated that he was allowed to work from 28th April 1954 to 4th May 1954 and 
that he was stopped from work from 5th May 1954. In support of this allegation , 
he has produced a chit, Exhibit 19 , written by Supervisor Nani Gopal Dutt to 
the attendance clerk on 28th April 1954 asking him to allow the romplainant 
work from that date . Nani Dutta has been examined on behalf of the manage 
ment at Exhibit 24 . He has denied that the complainant worked from 28th April 
1954 as alleged . He has admitted the above slip ; but he says that after he gave 
this slip , the complainant was not allowed to work by the Assistant Manager 
Mr. Mishra and the complainant informed him ( Dutta ) accordingly and that 
thercupon he wrote another slip Exhibit 20 to Mr. Mishra. I do not believe 
Mr. Dutta . It may be noted at this stage that neither Mr. Mishra nor the 
attendanre clerk has been examined by the management to show that the com 
plainant was not allowed to work from 28th April 1954, though the supervisor gaye 
him the slip Exhibit 19 for that purpose, 


8 . The management s case is that a charge sheet Exhibit 16 was issued to the 
complainant on 1st April 1954 but he refused to accept it. There is no evidence 
in support of this contention . The charge sheet Exhibit 16 purports to be attested 
by two persons to show that it was refused by the complainant hut neither of 
these persons has been examined as a witness . In this connection , I may also 
mention that in the application under Section 33 made by the management against 
the present complainant before the All India Industrial Tribunal ( Coliery Dis 
putes ) , no allegation has been made that a charge sheet was issued to the com 
plainant on 1st April 1954 or that it was tendered to him personally or that he 
refused to accept it. In that application , it was alleged that a charge shcet was 
issued on 30th June 1954 and that it was sent by registered post to the com 
plainant. I may also point out that Mr. Dutta in his deposition Exhibit 24 has 
admitted that he did not know on 28th April 1954 about any order of suspension 
passed against the complainant. If a charge sheet had been issued against the 
complainant before 28th April 1954, I am sure that the supervisor would have 
heen aware about it and in such a case he would not have issued the slip 
Exhibit 19 addressed to the attendance clerk allowing the complainant to work . 
I further think that unless the supervisor had got specific authority from his 
supervisors , he would not have issued that slip . This slip clearly supports the 
complainant s case that he was allowed to work from 28th April 1954 . 

9 . I may here also refer to a letter Exhibit 20 written by the complainant to 
the Agent of the colliery on 7th May 1954. In that letter , he has specifically 
mentioned that he was allowed to work from 28th April 1954 and that he worked 
in his former place till he was stopped from work from the morning of 5th May 
1954 . No reply was sent to this letter by the management. This also would 
support the complainant s allegation that he had worked at the colliery from 
28th April 1954 to 5th May 1954. 

10 . The mana - amont have produced their pay rolls which show that the com 
plainant was phsont during this week . I do not attach much importance to these 
pay rolls because none of the persons who wrote them was examined before me. 

11 . On the whole , after going through the evidence and circumstances in the 
case, I am satisfied that the romplainant was allowed to resume work on 28th 
April 1954 and that he was stopped from work from 5th May 1954 . This would 
mean that the stoppage of work started from 5th May 1954 and this was after 
the order of Reference in Reference No. 5 of 1954 was made. Even if this stop 
page of work was because of the alleged suspension of the complainant, the 


PART II. - Sec. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBNUARY 12, 1955 317 
= - = = - -- - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - 

- - - ---- - - - 
management could not suspend him without pay for more than ton days, Trey 
have already applied for permission to dismiss the complainant hy an application 
under Section 33 made before the All India Industrial Tribunal (Colliery Dis 
putes ) and the question whether such permission should be given to him or not 
will be considered and decided by that Tribunal. Till the complainant is actually 
dismissed , he must be paid his wages cven though he may remain under 
suspension . 


12. It was then argued before me that the present complaint must be dismissed 
because of the award passed in Reference No. 5 of 1954 . The order of Govern 
ment was for adjudication of certain ( specific ) disputes relating to reinstatement 
of certain workmen and payment of wages to them . A compromise was entered 
into between the management and the workmen as represented by the Koyala 
Mazdoor Panchayat and the Bihar Colliery Mazdoor Sangh on 18th September 
1954 . There was a further compromise on 17th November 1954. An award was 
passed in terms of the two compromises . One of the terms of compromise entered 
into on 18th September 1954 was that " It was agreed that the company would 
withdraw the proceedings commenced by it under Section 33 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act against the employees of the Lodna Group of Collieries" . Another 
clause was that " It was agreed that the proceedings started by the workers avainst 
the company under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act would likewise be 
withdrawn by them forthwith ." It was urged that because of this clause , the 
complainant was bound to withdraw the present complaint, and if he did not do 
so , the Tribunal should dismiss the complaint because of the above clause of the 
compromise , 


13 . The complainant is not a member either of the Koyala Mazdoor Panchayat 
or the Bihar Colliery Mazdoor Sangh . The management alleged that he was a 
member of the Kovala Mazdoor Panchayat and examined the Vice - President of 
the Koyala Mazdoor Panchayat Mr. Sharma at Exhibit 23 In his evidence , 
Mr. Sharma has stated that the complainant was at no time a memher of their 
union . He further stated that the complainant had giyen an authority to their 
union to appear on his behalf in connection with the application made by the 
management under Section 33 of the Industrin ) Disputes Act ; but cxcepting this , 
the complainant had not given any authority to the union to represent him or to 
appear on his behalf before any other authority or Tribunal. Tois would mean 
that the complainant had not given any authority to the Koyala Mazdoor 
Panchayat to represent him or to appear on his behalf in Refercncc No. 5 of 1954 . 
Any agrcement entered into between the management and the Koyala Mazdoor 
Panchayat would thus not bind the complainant. 


14 . The question then is as to what would be the effert of the award passed 
in the above case , As I mentioned above, the order of reference specified certain 
specific points for adjudication under Section 10 ( 4 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act , 
this Tribunal could adjudicate on those points and on matters incidental thereto . 
An award passed in the case would bind all worlmen - - whether they appeared 
before thc Tribunal or not- - so far as it decided the specific points that were 
referred to the Tribunal or matters tat were incidental thereto . Il during the 
pendency of a reference , the management committed a breach of Section 33 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, it would giyn a right to the aggrieved workman to 
approach the Tribunal under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act . That 
would be a separate proceeding and could not forni part of the award in the 
main reference . Of coursc , it would be open to a workman or workmen concerned 
to agree to withdraw such a complaint made by him or by them . The union 
also could agree to do so on behalf of its members ; but it would not bind those 
workmen who were not members of the union or had not given any authority to 
the union to represent them in the complaints Aled by them . In my opinion , 
therefore, the clause in the award that the proceedings started by the workmen 
would be withdrawn by them could not be said to be part of an award as such 
in that matter ; it would be only an agreement between the mangur nient and the 
workmen who were represented by the unions who signed that apreement. 


15 . In this connection , I may also point out that the management have also 
not so far carried out the clause agrering to withdraw all applicalions made by 
them under Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, though they were a party 
to the above agreement and the agreement was certainly binding on them . It 
does not lie in the mouth of a person who does not carry out his part of an agree 
ment to insist on another party s carrying out that party s part of the agreement. 
On this ground also , the management cannot ask that the present complaint 
should be dismisscd because of the above agrecments, 


318 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12, 1055 


[ PART II - Sec . 3 


- 


- - - 


- 


16 . In the result , it is ordered that the complainant should be paid his wages 
and dearness allowance and other emoluments from 15th May 1954 till he is 
properly dismissed and tiat he should be continued to be paid these amounts 
during the period of his alleged suspension . The arrears due to him up - to - date 
should be paid to him within thrce wecks of the award becoming enforceable 
and the future amounts should be paid to him as and when they fall due. 

I pass my award accordingly . 
The 25th January 1955 . 

( Sd.) L . P . DAVE , Chairman , 
Central Government s Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad. 

[No. IR - 2 ( 16 ) / 54. ] 
A . NARAYANAN , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 4th February 1955 
S . R . O . 373 . - In pursuance of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 16 of the Employees 
State Insurance Act, 1948 (XXXIV of 1948 ) , the Central Government is pleased 
to appoint Shri P . D . Seth as the Chief Accounts Officer in the Employees Stat 
Insurance Corporation with effect from the forenoon of the 1st February , 195 
for a period of one year in the first instance . 

[No. SS .134 ( 41) . ] 
New Delhi, the 7th February 1955 
S .R . O . 374 . — The Government of the State of Punjab having nominated , in 
( nercise of the powers conferred hy clause ( l ) of section 4 , read with sub - section 
( 9 ) of section 5 , of the Employees Stato Insurance Act , 1948 (XXXIV of 1948 ), 
Sliri Mangat Rai, I. A . S . Secretary , Transport Co -operative , Industries and Labour 
Departments , Chandigarh , as a member representing the State of Punjab in the 
Employees State Insurance Corporation in the place of Shri R . P . Kapur, I. C . S ., 
the following amendment is made in the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Labour . No. S . R . O . 2155 , dated the 16th November, 1953 , 
namely : - 
In the said notification , for item 12 (which relates to Shri R . P . Kapur , 

I.C .S .), the following item shall be substituted , namely : 
" 12 . Shri Mangat Rai, I. A . S .. Secretary , Transport, Co -operative, 
Industries and Labour Departments , Chandigarh ," 

[No, SS.121(98).1 
K . N . NAMBIAR , Under Secy . 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 7th February 1955 
S . R . O . 378 . - - In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of labour No . S . R . O . 3304 . dated the 20th October 1954 published at pages 2557 
2558 of the Gazette of India Part II Section 3 , dated the 30th October 1954 , at 
page 2558 for " ( 5 )" before the words " No Child " read " (4A ) ” . 

[No. LWI-24 ( 153 )53. ] 
New Delhi, the 9th February 1955 
S . R . O . 376 In evercise of the powers conferred by sections 7 and 9 of the 
Minimum Wages Act, 1948 ( XI of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby nominates 
Shri T , K . Parameswaran Nambiar, Secretary , Madras Port Trust, to be a member 
of the Advisory Board appointed in the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Labour, No . S . R . O . 2088 , dated the 21st June, 1954, vice Shri 
T . S . Parasuraman , and directs that the following amendment shall be made in 
the said notification , namely : 

Under the heading " ( 2 ) Representatives of Employers " , for the entry " 1 . Shri 
T . S . Parasuraman , Deputy Secretary to the Government of India , Ministry of 
Transport, New Delhi" , the following entry shall be substituted , namely : 
" 1. Shri T . K . Parameswaran Nambiar, Secretary , Madras Port Trust.” 

[ No. LWI- 2 ( 26 ) / 54 - ( 1i) . ] 


PART II - Sec . 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 12 , 1955 319 

- - - 

New Delhi, the 10th February 1955 
S . R . O . 377. - In exercise or the power s conforrod by sections 7 and 9 of the 
Minimum Wages Act , 1948 (XI of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby nominates 
Shri P . D Mello , General Secretary, Transport and Dock Workers Union , Nagindas 
Chambers, Frere Road, Bombay — 1 , to be a member of the Advisory Board 
appointed in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour , 
No. S . R . O . 2088 , dated the 21st Junc, 1954, in the vacancy caused by the resignation 
of Shri Dinkar Desai and directs that the following amendment shall be made 
in the said notification , namely : 

Under the heading “ ( 3 ) Representatives of Employers " , for the entry " 4 . Shri 
Dinkar Desai, Servants of India Society , Sardar Vallabhbhai Road , Girgaum , 
Bombay - 4 " , the following entry shall be substituted , namely : 
“ 4 . Shri P . D Mello , General Secretary, Transport and Dock Workers Union , 
Nagindas Chambers , Frere Road , Bombay - 1 ." 

[ No. LWI-2 ( 26 ) /54 - (i). ] 
A . P . VEERA RAGHAVAN , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 8th February 1955 
S .R . O . 878 . - In pursuance of paragraph 4 of the Employees Provident Funds 
Scheme, 1952 , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Hrishikesh 
Banerjee, Assistant Secretary , West Bengal Committee of the All India Trade 
Union Congress , 249, Bowbazar Street, Calcutta - 12 , to be a member of the 
Regional Committee for the State of West Bengal in the vacancy caused by the 
resignation of Shri Indrajit Gupta and directs that the following further amend 
ment shall be made in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour No. S .R . O . 1278 dated the 20th June, 1953 , namely : 
“ ( 9 ) Shri Hrishikesh Banerjee, Assistant Secrctary , West Bengal Com 

mittee of the All India Trade Union Congress , 249 , Bowbazar Street, 
Calcutta - 12." 

[PF , 516 ( 10 )WB.] 
TEJA SINGH SAHNI, Under Secy . 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY TITE MANAĢER , GOVT, OF INDIA PRESS , NEW DELHI 
AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1955 


