REGISTERED NO. D. 14 


2 
: 


. 


. 


. LT 


. 


The Eazette 


of # ndia 


Raha 


= 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 
- - - - - = = - - 

= = = 
No . 12 ) NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, MARCH 31, 1959/PHALGUNA 30, 1880 
- - = = — 

- - - - - - - - - - 

NOTICE 
The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the oth March , 

1959 3 


- - 


- - 


- - - - 


- - - - - - - - - 
No, and date 


Issue 


Issued by 


Subject 


No. 


36 . S . Os. 539 and 540 , dated 5th Miristry of Com 
March , 1959. 

merce and Indus 
try . 


Granting recognition perma 
nently to the Sauraslıtra Oil 
and Oilseeds Association , 
Rajkot in respect of forward 
contracts in Groundnut Ker 
nels and Groundnut Oil 
respectively . 


37 . S .O . 541, dated 9th March , Ministry of Law . 

1959. 


Declaration containing the name 

of the candidate elected by the 
elected members of the Bom 
bay State Legislative Assem 
bly to fill , vacancy in the 
Council of States , 


Approval of Alms specified there 


38 . S . O . 542 , dated 9th March , Ministry of Infor- 
1959 . 

mation and Broad 
casting . 


in . 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
Indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines , Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of these 
Gazettes, 


PART II — Section 3 – Sub -section (ii ) 
Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern 

ment of India ( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central 
Authorities ( other than the Administrations of Union Territories ). 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 

New Delhi, the 10th March 1959 
S . O . 605 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
13A of the Representation of the People Act, 1950 (43 of 1950 ) , the Election 
Commission , in consultation with the Government of Madhya Pradesh , hereby 

( 647 ) 


648 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21, 1959 /PHALCUNA 30 , 1880 (PART II 


nominates Shri S . M . N . Raina , Deputy Secretary to that Government , as the 
Chief Electoral Officer for the State of Madhya Pradesh , from the 1st March , 1959 
and until further orders . 

[No. 154 /6 / 58 /4363.] 

By Order, 
S . C . ROY, Secy . 


New Delhi, the 13th March 1959 
s . O , 606 . - Whereas the election of Shri Shankar Deo Vedalankar , as a member 
of the House of the People from the Gulbarga constituency of that Ilouse was 
called in question by an elcction petition presented under Part VI of the 
Representation of the People Act , 1961 ( 43 of 1951) , by Shri B . Shyam Sunde" . 
resident of Devappa Building , Gazipura , Gulbarga ; 

And whereas, the Election Tribunal appointed by the Election Commission in 
pursuance of the provisions of Section 86 of the said Act, for the trial of the said 
election petition , dismissed the said elcction petition by an Order dated the 15th 
October , 1957, published in the Gazette of India , Extraordinary , Part II, Section 3 , 
No. 580 , dated the 11th December , 1957 ; 

And whereas, the High Court of Mysore at Bangalore , on an appeal of Shri B 
Shyam Sunder set aside the said order of the Election Tribunal, by its judginent 
dated the 28th February , 1958 , published in the Gazette of India , Extraordinary , 
Part II - Section 3 , sub - section (ii ) , No . 73 dated the 30th April, 1958 and remand 
ed the said petition for the further trial ; 

And whereas, the said Election Tribunal, after further trial of the petition has, 
in pursuance of the provisions of Section 103 of the said Act, sent a copy of its 
Order in the said petition to the Commission ; 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of the provisions of Section 106 of the said Act . 
the Election Commission hereby publishes the said Order of the Tribunal. 


BEFORE THE ELECTION TRIBUNAL AT GULBARGA 

Thursday , the 29th day of January , 1959 

ELECTION PETITION NO . 431 OF 1957 
BEFORE SHRI R . HANMANTH RAO , B . A ., LL . B ., MEMBER ELECTION 

TRIBUNAL , GULBARGA 
Shri B . Shyam Şunder son of B . Manikyam , caste Mala , age 52 , Occupation 

Political worker, Resident of Devappa Building , Gazipura , Gulbarga , 

Petitioner . 
By : Shri Shankar Rao , Borgaonkar , Barrister -at-law and Shri Mahabubul 
Hasan , B . A ., LL .B ., Advocate . 

| Versus 
1. Shri Shankar Deo Vedalankar, son of Mr. Balaji Rao , Caste Arya Samaj. 

Age 32, Occupation Social Worker , C / 0 , Shri Dattatrya Rao Awaredi. 

Kanada Sahitya Sangh , Jagat Gulbarga . 
2 . Mr. Mahadco Appa Rampure Congress Leader , Gulbarga , Congress Com 

mittee, Gazipura , Gulbarga , 
3 . Mr. Sharangouda Inamdar, M .L .A ., Gazipura, Gulbarga. 
4 . Mr. R . V . Bidap , B . A ., LL. B ., Advocate , Blder, 
All candidates that contested the Election from the constituency , 

- Respondents. 
By : Shri Venkat Rao Deshpande, B .A ., LL .B ., Advocate for Respondents i 

and 2 . 


SEC. 9 ( 11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :MARCH 21 , 1989 / PHALGUNA 80, 1980 


649 


JUDGMENT 
This is an Election Petition under Section 80 of the Representation of Peoples 
Act , 1951 presented by Shri B . Shyam Sunder on 3rd May 1957, before the 
Election Commission of India challenging the validity and the legality of the 
election of Shri Shanker Dco, Respondent- 1 to the House of the People ( Lok 
Sabha ) from the Gulbarga Parliamentary ( Double Member ) Constituency to fill 
the Reserved seat on grounds of ( 1 ) corrupt practices and ( 2 ) the incompetency 
of Respondent- 1, an Arya Samajist to represent the Scheduled Caste . The 
Petitioner has prayed that the election of Respondent - 1 be declared void and 
incffcctive and he be declared to be duly elected under Sections 100 and 101 of 
the said Act . As Sarvashri Mahadevappa Rampure , Sharan Gouda Inamdar, and 
R . V Bidap were candidates for the general seat of Gulbarga Parliamentary 
( Doublc Member ) Constituency , they too have been impleaded as Respondents 
2 to 4 . The Election Commission appointed this Election Tribunal on 30th May , 
1957 (Gazette of India , dated 15th June, 1957 ) . When the Election Petition was 
rcceived by this Tribunal notices were issued to the Respondents. Respondents 
1 to 3 filed their written statements but Respondent No. 4 was set etparte as he 
did not enter his appearance in spite of service of notice . Issues were framed 
on 27th August 1957, and the Election Petition was dismissed on 15th October , 
1957, as the Petitioner failed to produce evidence on that date . The Petitioner 
went in appeal and the Hon ble High Court , Mysore State , remanded the case 
with a direction that the Petitioner be allowed to produce evidence only in 
regard to issue No . 1 which runs as follows: " Is Respondent- 1 an Arya Samajist 
by creed , belief and profession and so not a member of the Scheduled Caste ? " 

2 . The Petitioner has examined ( 11 ) witnesses including himself . Respondent- 1 
has stepped into the witness -box and produced one witness in the Court. He 
got two witnesses examined on Commission . ( 13 ) Documents have been exhibited 
on behalf of the Petitioner while ( 10 ) documents have been produced by 
Respondent- 1 . The other respondents have not adduced any evidence in the case . 

3 . It is necessary to mention at the outset that the Petitioner raised the objection 
before the Returning Officer on 1st February 1957 at the time of the scrutiny of 
the nomination papers that as Respondent- 1 belonged to Arya Samaj which does 
not believe in caste system he is not a person from the Scheduled Caste . On 
behalf of Respondent- 1 the objection raised was met on two grounds ( 1 ) 
Respondcnt- 1 was already a sitting member of Mysore Legislative Assembly from 
Humnabad Double Member Constituency representing the Reserved seat for the 
Scheduled caste and ( 2 ) he had produced a certificate under Section 33 ( 2 ) to 
the effect that he belongs to Scheduled Caste . The Petitioner contended then 
that in the former clection none might have raised the question and so it cannot 
he taken as a conclusive proof of the Respondent bcing a person from the Scheduled 
Caste and that the Certificate produced might have been obtained by the 
Respondent concealing the fact that he belonged to Arya Samaj. The Returning 
Officer called upon the Petitioner to produce documents in support of his con 
tentions but he asked for time which the Returning Officer did not grant and the 
nomination paper of Respondent- 1 was accepted as taking him to belong to 
Scheduled Caste ( Samagar ) . 

4 . The Petitioner states that Respondent - 1 is an Arya Samajist by creed , belief 
and profession and therefore not a member of a Scheduled Caste for any area in 
any State of India and so he was not qualified to All the Reserved seat of the 
Gulbarga Parliamentary Constituency. The Petitioner has enumerated six facts 
from which he wants that an inference be drawn that the Respondent- 1 is an 
Arya Samajíst . I do not think it ncccssary to specify these facts at this stage for 
I shall deal with each of them separately in view of the material in record . 


5 . Respondent- 1 denies the allegations of the Petitioner that he is an Arya 
Samajist by creed , belief and profession and not a member of the Scheduled 
Caste . He claims to be a member of the Scheduled Caste and as such qualified to 
All the Parliamentary seat from a Reserved constituency in any area in any 
State of India , Respondent- ) further submits that even if it is assumed without 
admitting that the allegation of the Petitioner that the Respondent is an Arya 
Samaiee is correct cyen then he will not be disqualified to fill a Parliamentary 
seat from the Reserved Constituency . A person merely becausc he becomes a 
member of Arya Samal or sympathises with its movements, programme or acti 
vities will not cease to be a Scheduled Caste member and he will not be deprived 
of his legal and political rights as a member of the Scheduled Caste . Respondent - 1 
mentions in his written statement that Arya Samaj is not a caste but it is only 
a Reformist movement started by Swamy Dayanand Saroswati to eradicate 
several social and religious evils that had crept in the Hindu Religion and Society . 


650 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : M 
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21 , 1959 / PHALGUNA 90, 1880 [PART II 

- = = - 

= - - = 
He too asserts that Respondent- l is Samgar by caste and so competent to fill the 
Reserve seat for Scheduled Caste. Respondent- 3 has filed a written statement in 
support of the Petitioner . In the rejoinder the Petitioner again asserted that 
as soon as a member belonging to the Scheduled Caste converts to Arya Samaj 
Faith or to any other Faith he ceases to be a Scheduled Caste member and conse 
quently he would be deprived of the rights and privileges which he could have 
enjoyed as a member of the Scheduled Caste , 


6 . I shall now proceed to give my findings on the six facts cnumerated by the 
Petitioner in his Petition for drawing the inference that Respondent - 1 is an Arya 
Samajist. 


( a ) The Respondent- 1 is the " Snataka " of Gurukul Kangari, Haridwar, a reli 
gious institution of Arya Samaj . That institution confers the degree of 
" Vedalankar " to a student who gets converted to Arya Samaj and ceases to be 
a member of the Scheduled Caste . Respondent- 1 has admitted that he is a 
Snatak ( Bachelor ) of Gurukul University Kangri but has denied that the said 
University 1 $ & religious institution of Arya Samaj and that it confers the degree 
of " Vedalankar" to a student who gets converted to Arya Samaj and ceases to 
be a member of any caste . It will now have to be seen whether Gurukul at 
Kangari 18 a religious institution or not and whether it confers the degree of 
" Vedalankar" on candidates belonging to Arya Samaj only . P . W . 1 hag deposed 
that from the rules of Gurukul Kangari it is evident that only persons having 
Yadnopayita ( sacred thread ) are given the degree of Vedalankar after having 
gone through Vedarambha Sanskar. Shankar Deo Respondent - 1 has deposed that 
it is not necessary for admission in Gurukul Kangari that a student should be an 
Arya Samajist. The evidence tendered by Pandit Indra Vidya Vachaspati s / o 
Swamy Shradha Nandji, the Vice Chancellor of Gurukul Kangari University 
( R . W . 3 ) is very important in this connection He states that Gurukul Kangari 
is an Educational Institution in which there is no bar of religion , caste or creed 
for admission into it . Vedarambha Sanskar is a Sanskar made at the time of 
admission of students in the Gurukul. This is not a conversion ceremony . It is 
not a Shuddi Sanskar. In the Vedarambha Sanskar a Yadna is performed and all 
the students who have no Yadno Pavita are invested with it . This witness has 
no personal knowledge as to whether Respondent- 1 went through the Vedarambha 
Sanskar or not as he came to Guruku ) Kangari from its branch institution at 
Kurukshetra . The witness admits that from the prefix Bramhachary to the 
name of Respondent- 1 it has to be inferred that his Upanayana Sanskar had been 
performed at Kurukshetra . It is clear from the evidence of the Vice Chancellor 
of Guruku ) University that Upanayana Sanskar or Vedarambha Sanskar of 
Respondent- 1 must have been performed at the time of his admission either at 
Gurukul Kangari or at its branch Gurukul Kurukshetra . Late Lala Lajpat Rai 
in his book " Arya Samaj " has specified that the Gurukul was established by the 
Vegetarian Şection of the Arya Samaj with a view to impart education as pro 
pounded by Dayanand in his works, giving more attention to proficiency in Vedic 
Sanskrit and character building on Vedic lines . In view of these circumstances , 
it is clear that Respondent- 1 went through the Vedarambha Sanskar or the 
Upanayana Sanskar at the time of his admission to Gurukul. 


( b ) The second point urged by the Petitioner is that after getting the degree 
of Vedalankar from Guruku Kangari, Respondent- 1 got admission in Dayanand 
Anglo Vedic ( D . A . V .) College as an Arya Samajist. The Respondent admits 
that he joined D . A . V , College but he denies to have done so as an Arya 
Samajist. The admissions into DA V . College are not restricted to only Arya 
Samajees but are open to any person irrespective of caste , creed or Religion . The 
witnesses of the Petitioner have no personal knowledge as to whether only an 
Arya Samajist is admitted in the D . A . V . Collegc or not, and so the testimony 
of Shri Hazarilal Rohtagi, Principal DAV College ( R . W . 4 ) shall have to be 
relled upon . He deposes that in the application for admission presented in 1949 by 
Respondent- 1 he noted his caste as Arya . He has also offered an explanation that 
one who thinks himself to be a Reformer amongst the Hindus and does not believe 
in birthwise caste system calls himself an Arya. It is clcar from this that though 
Respondent- 1 might not have got himself admitted as an Arya Samajee in the 
D . A . V . College he did mention in the application form that he was an Arya 
a person not believing in birthwise caste - system . 


( c ) The third circumstance to which the Petitioner has referred to is that 
after returning from Agra to Hyderabad , Respondent- 1 worked as an Arya 
Samaj Upadeshak ( Preacher ) in Hyderabad . P .Ws. 1 to 3 Shamsunder, B . Venkat 
Swamy and Chandrapal have deposed that Respondent- 1 worked as Arya Samaj 


Sec. 3 (ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :MARCH 21 , 1959 / PHALGUNA 30 , 1880 


651 


Upadeshak but the Respondent contends that he worked as a Pracharak for the 
upliftment of Harijans and not as an Arya Samajee Upadeshak . Respondent- 1 
states that he submitted an application giving therein a scheme for the upliftment 
of Harijans and requested that he may be appointed to do that work under 
the auspices of the Arya Pratinidhi Sabha, Hyderabad . R . W . 2 Pandit Narenderji, 
the President of Arya Pratinidhi Sabha , Hyderabad has produced the scheme 
that the Respondent had submitted on 27th April 1951 and the application that 
he had given on 1st May, 1951 for his being appointed to do the work of Harijan 
uplift ( Dalitcdhar ) on a remuncration of Rs. 100 ( Exs . Di and 2 ) . R . W . 2 draws 
a distinction between the general Pracharaks of the Arya Samaj and the 
Pracharaks who are appointed for specific purposes to work under the auspices 
of the Arya Samaj. Be as it may , this much is proved that Respondent- 1 worked 
as Upadeshak in 1951 under the auspices of Arya Pratinidhi Sabha, Hyderabad . 

( d ) It is alleged that Respondent- 1 married a girl from an Arya Samaj family 
according to Arya Samaj rites and that an Arya Samaj Pandit Shri Madan Mohan 
Vidyasagar was the Purohit at that marriage ceremony . The Respondent states 
that he married a Hindu woman according to Vedic rites and that he does not 
know whether Shri Madan Mohan Vidyasagar who performed the marriage was 
an Arya Samajee or not . P . W . 4 Gopdeo Shastry who was present at the marriage 
of Respondent - l deposes that it was celebrated according to Vedic rites of Arya 
Samaj and this must have been done on the ground of the Respondent being an 
Arya Samajist . The marriage was performed at Arya Samaj Mandir Udagir . 
P . W . 8 Naganath Rao states that the wife of Respondent- 1 belonged to Panchala 
(Sonar ) caste and the marriage was performed according to Arya Samaj rites. 
P . W . 2 B . Venkat Swamy states that he used to congratulate Respondent- 1 for 
getting himself married with a girl belonging to another caste . The Respondent 
too admits that his wife belongs to Sonar caste and that Madan Mohan Vidyasagar 
was the Purohit who performed his marriage . It is proved from this evidence that 
the marriage of Respondent- 1 was performed according to Arya Samaj rites . 


( e ) and ( f ) In an article under the caption " The Political Struggle of Arya 
Samaj, Hyderabad " published in the book " Vinayak Rao Abhinandan Grantha " 
Pandit Narenderji has referred to Respondent- 1 as an Arya Samaj candidate who 
was elected in the first General Elections (Ex , P - 1 ) . It is suggested on behalf of 
the Petitioner that the mention of Respondent- 1 as an Arya Samajec by Pandit 
Narenderji supports the contention of the Petitioner that Respondent- 1 is an Arya 
Samajee. Pandit Narenderji was examined by Respondent- 1 ( R . W . 2 ) and he 
has offered the explanation that he referred to Respondent- 1 as one of the Arya 
Samajists in the State because the list contained the names of the persons who 
are not Arya Samajists but who had sympathies for the Arya Samal programme 
and activity . I went through the extract of the article marked Ex . P - 1 and find 
myself unable to agree with the explanation given by R . W . 2 for the list is of the 
Arya Samajees elected for the Vidhan Sabha and it has not been mentioned any 
where that the sympathisers of the Arya Samaj have also becn included in it . 
It is true that a person is not bound by what others say about him but it is a 
circumstance which shall have to be taken into consideration along with other 
facts . This article was reproduced in Vivrati, a Hindi monthly magazine, Ex . P -5 . 


7 . There is one more piece of evidence which has been produced on behalf of 
the Petitioner and that was not referred to in the Election Petition . In fact this 
evidence was adduced after the petitioner had closed his evidence . I allowed him 
to produce this evidence as it was stated that the Petitioner had no knowledge 
of these facts till 26th November 1958. Ex , P - 11 is the letter addressed to the 
Petitioner by Captain Surya Pratap , the Pradhan of Arya Samaj Sultan Bazaar . 
Hyderabad in which he informed the petitioner that Respondent- 1 was enlisted 
as a member of the Arya Samaj Sultan Bazaar in the Anta Ranga Sabha held 
on 26th September 1953, and that he had paid subscription of Rs. 10 per month 
upto March , 1956 and thereafter at the rate of Rs. 2 per month . Ex . P - 12 is a 
copy of the Resolution of the Arya Samaj Sultan Bazar dated 26th February , 
1953 from which it is evident that Shri Shankar Deoji Vidvalankar was admitted 
as the Sabhasad (member ) of the Arya Samaj by the Anta Ranga Sabha , Exhibit 
P - 13 shows that Respondent- 1 paid a sum of Rs. 30 as subscription for the period 
April 1956 to June, 1957 on 18th June 1957. These copies were furnished to the 
Petitioner by P . W . 11 Captain Surya Pratap at his request . P . W . 11 had brought 
with him the original proceeding -book and the Register showing the payment made 
by Respondent- 1 at the time of tendering evidence . Captain Surya Pratap has no 
personal knowledge of the facts to be found in Exhibits P - 12 and 13 and his 
evidence is based on the record that has come into his custody after his being 
elected the Pradhan in the month of May , 1958 . P . W . 11 admits that for becoming 
a member of an Arya Samaj a person has to submit an application for that purpose 


652 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21, 1959 /PHALGUNA 80, 1880 (Part II 


in a prescribed form , No such application of the Respondent has been produced 
in the Court . The production of such an application was quite essential for 
establishing that the Respondent- 1 had offered to become a member of the Arya 
Samaj. P . W . 11 has admitted that there are some subscribers of the Arya Samaj 
who are not registered Arya Samajists. From these facts the only inference that 
can be drawn is that Respondent- 1 was not a registered Arya Samajee though he 
was an Arya Samajee . The conclusion that I have drawn is supported by Ex , 
D - 9 which is a list of the members of Arya Samaj Sultan Bazar prepared by 
Sarvashri Surya Pratap , Surya Datta Sharma and Narenderji on 22nd April, 1958 
after scrutinising the records of the Arya Samaj Sultan Bazar and it does not 
contain the name of Respondent- 1. 

8 . Some other acts of Respondent- 1 which would connect him with Arya Samaj 
movement have also been referred to by some of the witnesses of the Petitioner 
P . W . 2 B . Venkat Swamy who is the joint Secretary of Arya Pratinidhi Sabha , 
Hyderabad has produced 14th Annual Report of Arya Pratinidhi Sabha and the 
relevant portion in it is marked Ex . P - 6 which shows that during the period under 
report Respondent- 1 performed one Shuddhi and twenty sanskars . He parti 
cipated in the Utshava ( Celebration ) at Yadgir and delivered about 100 speeches . 
He established Arya Samaj Mandırs and worked in the Veda Weck ( Saptah ) at 
Umari. He preached Satyartha Prakash and did propaganda work in connection 
with Sammelan ( Conference ) . P . W . 3 Chanderpal states that Respondent- 1 has 
written a foreword to a pamphlet " Swargame Santa Sammelan " which preaches 
the principles of Arya Samaj, Ex . P - 7 . The name of the Respondent also finds a 
place in a pamphlet published in 1955 by Shri Bansilal Byas , Mantri Arya Prati 
nidhi Sabha , Hyderabad , in the list of Pratishtith ( distinguished ) Aryas given in 
1t (Ex . P - 4 ). It is argued on behalf of Respondent- 1 that Pratishtith Arya does 
not signify that the person referred to as such is a registered Arya Samajee . I 
agree with this line of reasoning but the fact remains that Respondent- 1 was 
referred to by the Arya Pratinidhi Sabha, Hyderabad as a distinguished Arya. 
Exhibit P - 3 is the 13th Annual report of Arya Pratinidhi Sabha , Hyderabad 
published in 1944 in which it has been mentioned that Pandit Shanker Deoji 
Udagir inspected 37 Samajs , gave 138 lectures , performed 23 Vaidic Sanskars 
and enrolled 4 members . With respect to this document it is contended that 
Pandit Shankar Deoji Udgir is not the Respondent and so he is not connected 
with any work referred to in the report. As no questions regarding the identity 
of Pandit Shanker Deoji referred to in the report and Respondent- 1 were put 
to any witness during the course of the cross- examination , I And no substance in 
the objection raised at the stage of the arguments . Respondent- 1 has not said 
anything in his sworn testimony with respect to the publications Exs. P - 3 . 4 . 6 
and 7 and so there appears to be no reason to discard this documentary evidence . 
Exbibit P - 2 is a copy of the judgment of the Magistrate Bidar in the case Mahadu 
178 . Subhadrabai on the Ale of his Court in which Respondent- 1 is referred to as 
Arya and his occupation being Mochi . The description of an accused given in A 
complaint has no legal significance when the particular fact has not been discussed 
and decided in the body of the judgment. 

9 . It would now be advisable to specify the several circumstances on which 
Respondent- 1 relies for rebutting the evidence led by the Petitioner , 
( a ) Respondent 1 was getting a scholarship from Uttar Pradesh Govern 

ment while studying in D . A . V . College as a person belonging to 
the Scheduled Caste . R . W , 4 , the Principal of D . A . V . College hus 
issued a certificate Ex . D - 8 to the effect that Respondent i belongs 
to Scheduled Caste and as such was granted a Scheduled Caste 
scholarship by the Government of Uttar Pradesh . This shows that 
while Respondent 1 was studying in D . A . V . College he availed the 
opportunity of obtaining a scholarshp on the basis of his caste by 
birth but that does not mean that he did not then profess the Arya 

Samaj çreed . 
( b ) Respondent 1 was on hunger strike for two days at D . A . V . College 

AS Harijan students were not admitted to mess with other caste 
Hindus. R . W . 4 , the Principal of D . A . V . College has also referred 
to this incident and has stated that as Shankar Deo was not allowed 
to mess in the hostel run by a Brahmin Cook on the ground of his 
being a Scheduled Caste person , he went on hunger strikc. From 
this incident the inference that can be drawn would be not in favour 
of Respondent i but against him . for it shows that Respondent 1 
claimed cqual status with the other caste Hindu students on the 
ground that there should be no distinction made in the hostel on 
the basis of caste by birth as he was an Arya Samajee . 


653 


SEÇ, 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21 , 1959 /PHALGUNA 80 , 1880 


( c ) Respondent 1 claims that he arranged a very big conference of Harijars 

at Bidar in 1951 (Ex . D - 3 ) but this can only mean that he worked 
for raising the standard of Harijans by holding their conference . 
It does not signify, however , that he was not professing the Arya 

Samaj faith . 
( d ) The Petitioner s witnesses have also admitted that Respondent i was 

elected for the Hyderabad Legislative Assembly in 1952 from the 
Reserved Scat of the Scheduled Caste , Humanabad . He was also 
the President of Harijan , M . L . As. Association , Hyderabad . This also 
shows that he took the benefit of the caste of his birth at the time 
of the General Elections in 1952 and nobody challenged it on that 
occasion on the ground of his being an Arya Samajee. The previous 
election cannot estop the petitioner from raising the issue that he 

has done in this election petition . 
( e ) Respondent i was the President of the Hyderabad Branch of the 

Depressed Classes League of which Shri Jagjivan Ram , Minister 
for Railways , is the founder and he is now the General Secretary 
of that All India Organisation . This conduct of Respondent 1 shows 
that he is actively participating in an organisation which tries to 
raise the standard of Harijans but that too cannot be taken to be a 
circumstance to rebut the evidence of the Petitioner that he belongs 
to Arya Samaj. In view of the above discussion , I hold that Res 
pondent 1 is an Arya Samajist by creed , belief and profession and 
it has now to be seen as to whether he continues to be still a member 
of a Scheduled Caste or not. 


10. Article 330 of the Constitution of India directs that seats shall be reserved 
in the House of the People for the Scheduled Castes. The President of India 
has in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( 1 ) of Article 341 of the 
Constitution of India has made the order which is known as " The Constitution 
( Scheduled Castes ) Order 1950 " which specifies the castes that would be includ 
ed in the Scheduled Castes for the purpose of Reserved seats . Chambar, Mochi 
and Samagar of the earstwhile Hyderabad State are included amongst the 
Scheduled Castes by this order . Section 3 of the said Order reads " Notwith 
standing anything contained in paragraph 2 , no person who professes a religion 
different from Hinduism shall be deemed to be a member of a Scheduled caste ." 
This necessitates the consideration as to whether Arya Samaj is a religion 
different from Hinduism or not . 

11 . The Petitioner deposcs that Arya Samaj is not included in the Scheduled 
Caste and it is not to be found in the list prepared by the Central Government 
in this regard . The Arya Şamajişts follow " Satyartha Prakash " . As the Arya 
Samajists do not recognise idol worship , Avatars , birthwise caste system and 
performance of Shradhas like the Hindus, they are followers of a religion other 
than Hinduism . Similarly P . W . 2 Venkat Swamy states that an Arya Samajist 
is not a Hindu and he gets his religion or faith entered in Census Register as 
" Vaidic Dharmi" or " Arya Samajee " . The religion of the Arya Samajists is 
Vaidic Dharma. This witness has also admitted that Swamy Dayanand did not 
establish any new Religion but he made the people realise what they had for 
gotten about their religion . The Arya Samajists do not believe in Puranas and 
some Shlokas of Geeta . The witness has also stated that Swamy Dayanandji 
has interpreted the word “ Arya " as a righteous person and Arya Samaj as a 
society consisting of righteous persons believing in truth ( Satya ) and following 
the Vaidic Dharma, P . W . 6 Ganpat Rao who is a Chambhar by caste states 
that persons belonging to the Schcduled Castes think that Respondent 1 belongs 
to Arya Dharma and there is a great difference between Arya Dharma and the 
Religion of untouchables . P . W . 11 Shri Surya Pratap , the Pradhan of Arya 
Samaj, Sultan Bazar also thinks that Arya Samaj and Hinduism are different 
religions. In Arya Samaj Varna is determined by Guna, Karma and Swabhava 
and not on the basis of birth . 


12 . R . W . 2 Pandit Narenderji states that Arya Samaj is not a separate reli 
gion from that of Hinduism but it is the name of an Organisation consisting of 
persons who propagate the real religion as found in the Vedas. An Arya Sama 
jist does not think himself to be separate from the Hindu . R . W . 3 Pandit Indra , 
Vice Chancellor , Gurukul Kangari University has expressed the opinion that 
Arya Samaj is not a religion , Dharma or caste but it is a reformist society of 
Hinduism . R . W . 4 Hazarilal Rohatgi, Principal, D . A . V . College, also states that 
a person who thinks himself to be a reformer amongst the Hindus and does not 
believe in birthwise caste - system calls himself an " Arya " . A letter addressed 


654 


THE GALETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21. 1959 / PHALGUNA 80 , 1880 [Parr II 

= -- - - - 
by Dr. S . Radhakrishnan , Vice President of India , to Respondent 1 on the 23rd 
November , 1958 has been produced by Respondent 1 and it is marked Ex , D - 10 . 
It reads " Your letter of the 14th November , 1958 . Arya Samaj is a reform 
movement. I take it within Hinduism , So any one who joins the Samaj does 
not cease to be a Hindu , that is my view . " When the original letter was sent 
to Dr. S . Radhakrishnan by this Court he admitted that it was written and 
signed by him and that he did not know that it was in connection with an 
Election Petition . 

13 . It would be advisable to refer in brief to the genesis of Arya Samaj. 
Arya Samaj was founded by Swamy Dayanand Saraswati in 1875 enunciating 
the " ten principles " of that school of thought. The object of Swamy Dayanand 
was to revive the Vedic Faith ; The Vedas were the sheet- anchor of his propa 
ganda and his scheme of reform . Swamy Dayanand has observed in Satyartha 
Prakash " My conception of God and all other objects in the universe is found 
ed on the teachings of the Veda and other true Shastras , and is in conformity 
with the beliefs of all the sages from Brahma down to Jaimini. I offer a state 
ment of these beliefs for the acceptance of all good men . That alone I hold 
to be acceptable which is worthy of being believed in by all men and in all 
ages . I do not entertain the least idea of founding a new religion or sect." 
The Arya Samaj by Lala Lajpat Rai, page 89. What the founder of a particular 
school of thought had in his mind about his movement is a very relevant fact 
and so it shall have to be taken that Swamy Dayanandji was not the originator 
of a new religion but he wanted to reform the religion of his birth i. e . Hinduism . 

14 . It is beyond the pale of controversy that Arya Samaj does not believe 
in polytheism , Avatars ( Incarnations) , performance of Shradhas , caste system 
and such other matters. If non -belief in these matters cuts at the root of 
Hinduism then certainly Arya Samaj shall have to be taken as a separate reli 
gion . There is no authoritative definition of Hinduism . The petitioner , when 
asked to define Hinduism during the course of the cross examination , has rightly 
stated " Hinduism is the way of life propounded during the last three thousand 
years by customs, manners and ceremonies evolved during that period ." Dr. 
Radhakrishnan in his book " The Hindu View of Life " at page 21 observes 
" Hinduism is thereforc not a definite dogmatic creed but a vast, complex , but 
subtly unified mass of spiritual thought and realisation ." At page 77 of the same 
book , he further observes : " Hinduism is more a way of life than a form of 
thought. While it gives absolute liberty in the world of thought, it enjoins 
a strict code of practice . The theist and the atheist, the sceptic and the agnostic 
may all be Hindus if they accept the Hindu system of culture and life , Hinduism 
insists not on religious conformity but on a spiritual and ethical out- look in life." 
When Hinduism is not a dogmatic creed then it has the potentialities of keeping 
within its fold new thoughts and ideas. Hinduism is not static but is dynamic 
and so it can accommodate in itself new thoughts which are the results of ever 
changing environment. Looked at from this point of view Arya Samaj is an 
essentially Hindu Organisation and it is not a separate religion . 


15 . It is argued on behalf of the Petitioner that as Swamy Dayanand is deg 
matic in his assertions and says that one who disrespects the Vedas should be 
turned out of the Nation and the Country , his school of thought is static just 
like Christianity and Mohammadanism and so it shall have to be treated as a 
separate religion other than Hinduism . I do not agrec with this point of view , 
for variety is the quint essence of Hinduism or Hindu culture and , no amount 
of diversity in thought can remove a person from the Hindu fold . In spite of 
his dogmatic assertions Swamy Dayanand would find a place in Hinduism . 
Though the Petitioner has relied upon page 54 of " Religion and Society " by 
Dr. Radhakrishnan , I think it does not support him but is in consonance with 
the view that I have taken . The relcvant passage on page 54 runs; " Hinduism 
is not bound up with a creed or book , a prophet or a founder , but is persistent 
searth for truth on the basis of the continuously renewed experience . Hinduism 
is human thought about God in continuous evolution . Therc is no end to its 
prophets and scers , no limits to its canonical books. It welcomes all new experi 
ences and new expressions of thought or truth . Light is good in whatever lamp 
it may burn , even as a rose is beautiful in whatever garden it may bloom ." 


16 . The Petitioner relying on " Teachings of Mahatma Gandhi" edited by Jay 
Parvesh Chander urges that Mahatmaji called himself a Sanatani Hindu as he 
believed in the Vedas, Upnishdas , Puranas , Avtars, rebirth and Varna, Shrama 
Dharma but the Arya Samaj has discarded these beliefs , except the Vedas and so 
it cannot be a Hindu movement. I am not inclined to accept this line of 
reasoning for Mahatmaji has also condemned caste - system as is to be found in 


Sec . 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :MARCH 21, 1959/ PHALGUNA 30 , 1880 


655 


- 


Its present popular and crude senge. He too calls himself to be a reformer 
through and through . (Pages 287 and 293 ) . 

27 , The Petitioner has referred to page 169 of " Kulliyat Arya Musafeer " by 
Shri Lekharam in which he observes that Aryas think , due to several reasons, 
that the names Hindustan and Hindu are very bad and also to page 13 of the 
" Arya sumaj is a world movement" by Ganga Prasad Upadhya in which it has 
been specified that Arya Samaj is not a Hinduism . Every observation in a book 
has reference to its context and if it is read bereft of its context it would give 
a meaning which the author had never intended . Shri Lekharam dislikes the 
words " Hindu and Hindustan " as they are not to be found used in old sanskrit 
books and they appear to have their origin from the River Sindhu . This opinion 
of Shri Lekharam is not sufficient for treating Arya Samaj as a separate religion 
from Hinduism . Similarly Shri Ganga Prasad Upadhya wanted to emphasise 
that Hinduism was thrown open to the whole world by the Arya Samaj as it had 
started " Shuddhi" movement. This also cannot be a reason for admitting Arya 
Samaj as a separate religion for what Arya Samaj intended to do was to convert 
the non -Hindus to the Hindu fold . For the reasons specifed above , I hold that 
Arya Samaj is not a separate religion and that the Arya Samajists are also Hindus . 


18 . Though there is no authoritative pronouncement ag to whether an Arya 
Samajee is a Hindu or not for the purposes of the Constitution ( Scheduled Castes ) 
Order , 1950 still the rulings on this point in other connections would also be 
relevant for the purposes of this case . In A . I. R . 1935 Allaha d 924 , it was held 
that Arya Samaj cannot be regarded as a new Religion entirely different from 
Hindu .sm in the same way as Christianity or Islam would be. In 1922 Patna , 
378 it is observed " Dayanandis are Hindus." If the Brahmos are Hindus the Arya 
Şamajists are more so because though professing to be monotheistic they believe 
in the supremacy of the Vedas . Though n 1923 Calcutta 265 the matter was 
discussed with respect to Brahmo Samaj, the yardstick that their Lordships 
Applied was as to whether the founder of the sect was a Hindu or not and did he 
ever abjure his ancestral religion . Applying that test it will have to be said that 
Swamy Dayanand was a mere reformer who professed to restore the ancient 
faith to its original purity . In view of the above case law Arya Samajists are 
Hindu and Arya Samaj is not a separate religion . 


19 . There are several enactments which are made applicable to Arya 
Samajists and a reference to them also would not be out of place. It appears that 
some doubts had arisen about the validity of inter - caste marriages that were 
being performed by the Arya Samajişts and so the Arya Marriage Validation 
Act, 1937 was brought into force . In that piece of legislature , it is specified that 
persons known as Arya Samajists are a class of Hindus. Similarly personal laws 
governing the Hindus have been recently enacted in which Arya Samaj is 
referred to as a form of Hindu religion . These enactments are : the Hindu 
Succession Act, the Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act, the Hindu Adoption 
Act, the Hindu Marriage Act. The learned Counsel for the Petitioner argues that 
it a system of personal law is made applicable to persons of a specific religion 
they do not by its operation become Hindus ipso factor. He supports his con 
tention by referring to Khojas who are Muslims and they were being governed 
by Hindu law in the matter of succession and inheritance . It is true that the 
Hindu law was applicable to the Khojas in the matter of succession and inheri 
tance but its origin was in custom and usage. Be as it may , one thing is undis 
puted that the personal law that has governed the Arya Samajists for the last 75 
years or more is no other than the Hindu Law . 


20 . The learned Counsel for the Petitioner argues that as persons professing 
Arya Samaj are liable to punishment U / Ss. 3 and 4 of the Untouchability 
( Offences ) Act 1955 , it must be construed that Arya Samajists are separate from 
the untouchables and so, they cannot be grouped with the Scheduled Castes . It 
is not clear from the Act as to whether an untouchable professing Arya Samaj 
creed can be punished under it or not. That would be a question of the interpre 
tation of the Act and so I do not propose to traverse that ground . 


21 . Relying on the following Government Publications, it is urged that Arya 
Samaj , if not a religion , is at any rate a caste separate from the Scheduled Castes 
referred to in the Constitution ( Scheduled Castes ) Order, 1950 : 

1. Census of India paper No. 2 , 1953 at page 31. 
2 . Census of India , 1951, Vol. 9 Hyderabad, table D - 2, page 153 and table 

D - 3 , page 157 (Govt. Press, Hyderabad ) . 
3 . Census of India 1941 Vol. 43, Mysore, Part II tables at page 356 , 


656 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA MARCH 21, 1959 / PHALGUNA 80, 1880 


[PART II 


4 Census of Mysore , 1941, page 21, Vol 23, Part I, page 151 

5 Census of India, 1951, Vol 23, Part I, Report Mysore page 112 
It is true that in these Government Publications Aryas are shown as a ceste 
amongst the Hindu since 1941 It is contended on behalf of the Petitioner that 
the Arya Samajists agitated that they should be shown separatcly in the Census 
Report and so the caste " Arya " was added to the list of castes that had been 
prepared prior to 1941This may be true but that has no legal significance 
Section 15 Indian Census Act forbids the admission of such entries in the Census 
Reports as legal evidence in a case Besides this , the purpose of taking the 
census is to find out the numerical strength If for the purpose of determining 
the strength of the persons that have accepted the Arya Samaj school of thought, 
they were shown separately in some tables or reports by the Census authority , 
that does not mean that they form a separate caste In fact it would be a great 
travesty to dub the Arya Samajists as forming a separate caste when one of the 
cardinal principles of their creed is to discard and scrap the birthwise caste 
system It is clear from this that the Arya Samajists have no caste of their own 
It is true that they believe in Varna Vyavastha and Varna is to be determined on 
the merit (Guna Karma of each individual) When RW 3 Pandit Indra was 
asked about the Varna of Respondent- 1 he said that he was Kshatriya by Varna 
The Varna Sanstha as admitted by the Arya Samajists is quite different from 
what is known as the caste system amongst the Hindus In the result there is no 
such caste amongst the Hindus as that of an Arya or the Arya Samajists 

22 There is no room for doubt that thc Arya Samaj takes keen interest in 
the social uplifting of the lower castes The Arya Samaj tries to achieve this 
goal by adopting the following two methods ( 1 ) the raising of the status of castes 
not entitled to wear the sacred thread by admitting them to that privilege and ( 2 ) 
raising the untouchables to the rank of touchables and educating them to higher 
Bocial ideals with a view to cventually confer on them social equality with other 
Hindus - The Arya Samaj by Lala Lajpat Ral page 257 In the instant case 
also it appears that Respondent- 1 was made to wear the Yadnopavita at the 
Vedarambha Sanskar and facilities wcre given to him to get higher education 
but these things alone cannot deprive Respondent- 1 of the valuable right that 
has been conferred on persons belonging to his caste under Article 330 of the 
Constitution of India This right can be taken away only when it is proved that 
Respondent- 1 professes a religion different from Hinduism A caste is the result 
of birth and not of choice or volition As observed in 1958 Andhra Piadesh , 
724 " mere performance of a ceremony which is performed by the twice born 
class would not elevate a Shudra of the IV class with the status of a twice born 
class but it may be said that as times are changing and there is very little 
importance to caste or creed and there is a tendency to intermix or inter -marriage 
this thing may disappear ” In the light of this ruling inter caste marriage or 
Vedarambha Sanskar are not sufficient to deprive Respondent- 1 of the right that 
he has acquired by birth - 1958 Bombay, 296 Both the parties have relied upon 
AIR 1954 Supreme Court 236 in which the Appcllant belonged to the " Mahanu 
bhav " Pantha " which does not believe in caste Their Lordships of the 
Supreme Court have observed that in such cases three factors are to be taken 
into consideration ( 1 ) the reaction of the old body ( 2 ) the intentions of the 
individual himself and ( 3 ) the rules of the new order it is necessary to bear in 
mind that Mahanubhav Pantha is over one thousand years old while the Arya 
Samaj was started about 75 years ago There is no evidence in this case shout 
the reactions of the old body , for no person belonging to the Samgar caste of 
Bidar District has been examined in this case The witnesscs of the Petitioner 
who mostly claim to belong to Arya Samaj have merely stated that Respondent- 1 
professes Arya Samaj and Arya Samaj does not believe in caste system This is 
not enough for the purpose of this case There should be express evidence to 
show that a person professing Arya Samaj was outcasted by the persons belonging 
to the caste of his birth As for the intention of the individual is concerned 
there are many circumstances which show that Respondent- 1 did not abjure the 
caste of his birth Not believing in the caste - system is one thing while ahjuring 
the caste is another The Political and social consequences of the acceptance of 
Arya Samaj are to be determined in a common sense practical way rather than on 
theological and theocratic grounds By no stretch of imagination can it be said 
that a reform movement which had been started for the amelioration of the 
scheduled castes could have thought of depriving its members of the political and 
social advantages that may be conferred on them in the future To my mind a 
person belonging to a scheduled caste, on professing Arya Samaj , would not 
lose the benefits of the caste in which he was born but in addition to it his status 
would be raised as far as possible When Respondent- 1 was refused admission 
in the mess at DAV College he went on hunger strike so that the Harijan students 


Sec. $ (ii)j THE GAZETTE OF INDİA :MARCH 21 , 1959 /BHALGUNA $0, 1880 


654 


muy be allowed to take their food in the common dining hall along with students 
ol other çastes. This mean that Respondent- 1 was conscious of his caste and 
further more the authorities of the foremost institution of the Arya Samajists 
ve. D . A . V . College had not till then been able to abolish the distinctions of caste . 
Theory is one thing and practice another. When Respondent- 1 completed his 
education he chose to work under the auspices of Arya Sama) for the upliftment 
of Harijans. He was elected to the Hyderabad Legislative Assembly in 1952 from 
the Reserved seat of the Scheduled caste, Humanabad . He was the President of 
the Harijan M . L .As. Association , Hyderabad . He is the General Secretary of 
the All India Dcprcssed Classes League . He had arranged a conference of 
Harijans at Bidar in 1951. It is vehemently urged that the pamphlet issued on 
that occasion Ex . D - 3 does not refer to Samgar caste but there is a reference to 
Mochi caste which is only a Hindi word for the Kannada word Samgar . Pre 
suming for a moment that the list in Ex . D - 3 does not specifically refer to 
Samgar caste that does not in any way effect the nature of the activities that 
Respondent- 1 was carrying on at that time. In view of the above facts it is 
amply proved that in spite of professing Arya Samaj Respondent- 1 did not sever 
his connections with the Scheduled Castes . I feel justihed in taking this view 
for P . W . 2 B . Venkat Swainy who professes Arya Samaj for a period of more 
than 30 years admits that he is the President of Hyderabad Mudiraj Conference 
and the Chairman of the Reception Cominittce of the All India Mudiraj Con 
terence . Shri B . Venkat Swamy is a Mudiraj by birth and his association with 
Mudiraj Organisation establishes that neither has he severed his connections with 
his caste -men nor has he bccn outcasted by them . The rules of the new order 
only express their disapproval of the caste system and claim that Varna should 
be determincd by Guna Karma. There is nothing in the new order to presume 
than the Political benellts given to scheduled castes were directed to be 
relinquished by persons professing the Arya Samaj. It is advisable to mention 
here that Respondent- 1 was grunted a scheduled caste scholarship by the Govern 
ment of Uttar Pradesh while he was studying in D . A . V . College in 1949 – 1951 
( Ex . D - 8 ) . By applying the tests laid down in 1954 Supreme Court 236 Respon 
dent- 1 continues to be a member of the scheduled castes . 

23 . It has been contended on behalf of the Petitioner that no witnesses of the 
Samgar caste have been examined on behalf of Respondent- 1 to prove that he 
still continues to be a member of the Scheduled caste. When an election is 
challenged on a certain point it is for the Petitioner to adduce evidence to prove 
all the aspects material for the decision of the objections raised by him . Most of 
the witnesses of the Petitioner are Arya Samajists . The only relevant witness 
examined by the. Petitioner in this regard is P . W . 6 Ganpat Rao who is chambhar 
by çaste . Ile states that as the attitude of Shankar Deo Respondent was not good 
towards the untouchables they were not satisfied with his work . The Respondent 
used to try to win over the untouchables to Arya Samaj and so they were dis 
satisfied with him . The dissatisfaction of some of the persons belonging to the 
Scheduled Caste at the activities of the Respondent cannot be a reason for pre 
suming that he does not belong to the scheduled caste. He has not given any 
Instance of the scheduled caste people disclaiming persons of their caste pro 
fessing Arya Samaj. 


24. The Respondent has produced an extract from the Lok Sabha debates , 
Part I, dated 12th September , 1957 which runs as follows: 
" 1607 - A , Shri Siddiah : Will the Minister of Home Affairs be pleased to state 

whether members of the scheduled castes who have become Arya 
Samajists are considered to be Scheduled castes ? 

Answer 
SHRIMATI VIOLET ALVA : Yes " 
The questions and answers in the Legislatures have not the force of law or case. 
law and so no legal significance can be given to it. 

25 . The learned Counsel for the Petitioner vehemently urges that Respondent- 1 
who professes Arya Samaj, has not only deceived himself but has deceived the 
public also by concealing his true faith and creed. He did not mention in the 
pamphlet issued on thc occasion of the conference at Bidar , that he belonged to 
the Samgar caste . No applications of Respondent- 1 in which he had referred to 
himself as Şamgar have been produced and so , it is clear that Respondent avoids 
calling himself a Samgar. Even in the body of the deposition , Respondent has 
not said that he belongs to Samgar caste . It is of utmost importance that persons 
who want to take part in public life and rcpresent the people should have Arm 
convictions and beliefs. They should not change their faith or creed to gain 
political ends . 


68 


THË GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 2i, 1959 /PHALGUNA SO, igid 


Barr Ji 


G 


. 


NL 


26 . There might be a grain of truth in the line of reasoning adopted by the 
learned Counsel for the Petitioner but an Election Tribunal is not expected to 
899669 the moral values of the acts of the candidates but its duty is to decide the 
point in issue in view of the law in force . It is true that Respondent- 1 has not 
stated in his deposition that he belongs to Samgar caste but has claimed himself 
to belong to the Scheduled caste . But this does not in any way affect the merits 
of the case, for at every stage of the election proceedings he represented himself 
to belong to the Scheduled caste ( Samgar ) . Had he been asked about his caste 
amongst the scheduled castes, he would have answered it. If persons claiming 
to be reformers and not believing in caste - system , want to cling to their castes 
of birth for obtaining seats in the Legislatures, then they cannot be forbidden 
to do so , in view of the provision of the Scheduled Castes Order . 


27. In view of the above discussion the finding of issue No. 1 is as follows: 


Shri Shankar Deo Respondent is an Arya Samajist by creed, belief and pro 
fegajon but in spite of that he is a member of the scheduled caste . In the result , 
the Election Petition has to be dismissed . 


28 . Besides the costs already awarded to the Respondents 1 and 2 by the 
Hon ble High Court, it is advisable to drect that Respondents 1 and 2 be paid 
Rs. 300 and Rs. 100 respectively towards costs . 


ORDER 


The Election Petition presented by Shri B . Shyamsunder against Shankar Deo 
and others Respondents is dismissed . Respondents - 1 and 2 be paid Rs. 300 and 
Rs. 100 respectively towards costs . 
Sd ./ VENKAT RAO , 
Advocate for Respondents 1 and 2. 
Sd . / - S . M . HASAN , 
MAHADEVAPPA RAMPURE , 
Advocates for Petitioner. 

Sd./ - R , HANMANTHA RAO , 
Member Election Tribunal Gulbarga . 

Sd ./ - SHANKARDEO. 


[No. 82 /431 /57/ 4565 .] 

By Order, 
DIN DAYAL, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 


New Delhi, the 11th March 1959 


$ . O . 607. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
and clause ( 5 ) of article 148 of the Constitution , and after consultation with the 
Comptroller and Auditor General in relation to persons serving in the Indian 
Audit and Accounts Department, the President hereby makes the following rule : 
Where the President is satisfied that any powers exercisable by the 

appointing authority under any rules made under proyiso to article 
309 or clause (5 ) of article 148, or continued under article 313, of the 
Constitution should be exercised by him , he may also exercise the 
said powers . 


[No . F . 59 / 2 / 57 -Ests ( A ). ] 
L . M . NADKARNI, Jt. Secy . 


Sec. $ (Uj THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21, 1959 / BHALGUNA 30, 1880 

= 
MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

| New Delhi, the 13th March 1969 
S . O . 608 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Foreign 
Jurisdiction Act , 1947 (47 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendment to the Karaikal Cultivating Tenants Protection 
(No. 2 ) Order , 1958 , namely : 
In clause 2 of the said order, for the words " six months" the words " one 
year " shall be substituted . 

[No. F . 38 ( 1) / 58 - Eur. W .] 
A . DAS GUPTA , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 17th March 1959 
THE PONDICHERRY STATE (PREVENTION OF CLASS HATRED ) ORDER , 1959 

S . O . 609 , - Whereas by virtue of the agreement dated the 21st October , 1954 , 
entered into between the Government of India and the Government of France 
the Central Government has jurisdiction in and in relation to the State of 
Pondicherry ; 

And whereas it is considered necessary and expedient that adequate provision 
be made in the State of Pondicherry for the avoidance and prevention of interne 
cine conflict amongst the citizens of the State of Pondicherry . 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Foreign 
Jurisdiction Act, 1947 ( 47 of 1947 ) , and of all other powers enabling it in that 
behalf , the Central Government hereby makes the following order , namely : 

1. ( 1 ) This Order may be called the Pondicherry State (Prevention of Class 
Hatred ) Order, 1959. 

(2 ) It shall apply to the whole of the State of Pondicherry . 
(3 ) It shall come into force at once . 

2 . Whoever by words, either spoken or written , or by signs , or by visible 
representations, or otherwise , promotes or attempts to promote feelings of enmity 
or hatred between different classes of the citizens of the State of Pondicherry 
shall be punished with imprisonment which may extend to two years, or with 
fine or with both . 

Explanation . - It does not amount to an offence within the meaning of this 
paragraph to point out, without malicious intention and with an honest view to 
their removal, matters which are producing or have a tendency to produce , feel 
ings of enmity or hatred between different classes of the citizens of the State of 
Pondicherry . 

[No. F . 36 (2 ) -Eur ( W ) /59 .] 

S . DUTT, Foreign Secy . 


---- 


660 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs ) 
New Delhi, the 12th March 1959 


--- 


-- 


- 


S .O . 610 . – Statement of the Affairs of the Resteve Bank of India, as on the 6th March 1959. 

BANKING DEPARTMENT 


Rs. 


Liabilities 

Rs. 

Assets 
Capital paid up . . . . . . 5 ,00 ,00 ,000 Notes 

7 .33,62 ,000 
Reserve Fund . . . . . . . 80 ,00 ,00 .000 Rupee Coin . 

2 ,88,000 
National Agricultural Credit (Long -term Operations 

Subsidiary Coin . . . . . 

393,000 
Fund 

25, 00 .00,000 

Bills purchased and Discounted : 
National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation ) Furd . 3,00 , 00 ,000 (u ) Internal : : : : 
Deposits : 

(#1 Extemal . . . . 
(a ) Government 

(c) Guvertmert Treasury Buils . 

4 ,26 ,06,000 
( 1) Central Government . . 52,04,17 ,000 Balances held abroad * . . . 

32 ,45 , 84,000 
(2 ) Other Governments , 18,31,97,000 * * Lsans and Advances to Goverr ments 

23,39,83,000 
(b ) Banks . . 65 ,59,68 ,000 tOther Leans and Advances . 

20 ,05,27,000 
(c ) Others . . 115,85,40,000 Investments . . . . 

255,71,74 ,000 
Bills Payable . 23 ,62 ,29 ,000 Other Assets . . . . 

11. 95 ,39 ,000 
Other Liabilities 

38 ,21,05 ,000 
Rupees . . 426,64 , 56 ,000 Rupees . 

426 ,64, 56 , 000 
Includes Cash & Short term Seaurities . 
* * Includes Temporary Overdrafts to State Governments . 

The item Other Loans and Advances includes Rs. 5,53,24 ,000 - advanced to scheduled banks against usance bills urder Section 17 (4 /(c ) of the 
Reserve Bank of India Act . 
Dated the IIth day of March 1959 . 


111EGAZETTEO1INDIA:MARCH21,1959/PIIALGUNA30,1880 


(PART1) 


- 


- 


An Account pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act , 1934 , for the week ended the 6th day of March 1959. 

ISSUE DEPARTMENT 


- 


- 


Liabilities 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Assets 


Rs. 


Rs. 


8 ,33,62 ,000 


Notes held in the Banking Depart . 

ment 
Notes in circulation . . . 
TotalNotes issued . . 


117, 76:03,000 


1688,58 ,23,000 


1696 ,91, 85 ,000 


178 , 00 , 89 ,000 


A . Gold Coin and Bullion : 

(a ! Held in India . . . . 

(b Held outside India . . 
Foreign Securities . . . 

TOTAL OF A , . 
B . Rupee Coie . . . . . 
Gvernment of India Rupee Securities . 
Interra ] Bills rf Excharge and other 
L interciel paper . . . . 

TOTAL ASSETS . . 


295,76 ,92 ,000 


129 , 70 - 39 ,000 


Sec.3(ii)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MARCH21,1959/PHALGUNA90,1880 


1271, 474 ,51,000 


TOTAL LIABILITIES 


1565,91.85,000 


1596 ,91,85 ,000 


Dated the 11th day of March 1959. 


. 


H . V . R JENGAR , 

GOVERNOR. 
[No. F . , 3 (2 -BC /59 .] 


A . BAKSI, 
Jt. Secy . 


661 


662 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MARCH 21, 1959 / PHALGUNA 30 , 1880 


[PART II 


RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 

(Central) 

New Delhi, the 10th March, 1959 
S . O , 611 — The following list of Government Securities etc , in the custody of the Reserve 
Bank of India , New Delhi as on the 3180 December, 1958 deposited under paragraphs IOI and 
108 of the Government Securities Manual (3rd Edition ) is published for the information of 
officers concerned . Any discrepancy in the list should be brought to the notice promptly . 

A . Inder to list of Government Securities etc ., deposited under paragraph rol of the Government 
Securities Manual, 


Delhi as on the weathercegra Édition biophili to the notice 


Delhi/New Delhi 


Item 


No. 





. 


18 


33 


1 - 3 


28 - 29 


23 


Central Board of Irrigation & Power, Curzon Road , New Delhi . 
Controller of Central Radio Stores Depot , New Delhi. . 
Chief Commissioner , Delhi, . . . . . . . . . 
Deputy Commissionci , Delhi, . . . . . . . . . 
District & Sessions Judge, Delhi , . 
District Judge, Delhi. . . . 
Director of Education , Delhi Province , Delhi. . 
Director, Indian Council ofMedical Research , New Delhi. 
Director General, All India Radio , New Delhi. . . . . 
Director General of Archaeology in India , New Delhi . . 
Executive Engineer, C -Division , C .P . W .D ., New Delhi. . 
Financial Adviser & Chief Accounts Officer, Northern Railway, New Delhi. . 
Honorary Treasurer , All India Women s Education Fund Association , New 

Delhi . . . . . . . . . 
Land Development Officer , New Delhi. . . . . . 
Oficer Comnanding , HQ - 1 Armed Division , Engineers, New Delhi 
Officer Commanding , 39 ASLT. Pd . Pk. Coy -Clo 56 A . P .O ., New Delhi, 
Miniger, Guvern not of In Ila Press, New Delhi. 
Pay & Accounts Officer, Ministry of Food & Agriculture, New Delhi, . 
Pay & Accjunts Officer, Ministry of Works, Housing & Supply, New Delhi. 
President & Secretary , Indian Central Sugar - canc Committee , New Delhi. 
Secretary to the Government of India , Ministry of Defence, New Delhi. . 
Treasurer of Charitable Endowmcats for India , New Delhi. . . . 
Under Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of Home Affairs, New 
Delhi. . . . . . . 

. . . 
Secretary Minis .ry of Rallways , Government of India , Rallway Board , New 

Delhi 
Under Secretary to the Goverment of India , Partition Secretariat , New Delhi. 
Vice President and Additional Sccretary , Indian Council of Agricultural Research , 

New Delhi 
Gorakhpur F . A . & Chief Accounts Oficer, N . B . Rallway , Gorakhpur. . . 
KASAULI. . . . 

. . . 

. . . 
President Pasteur Institute & Secretary Government of India, Department of 

Education Health and Lands , Kefaull. . . . . . . . 
MEERUT 

oint Controller of Defenco Accounts ,Meerut. . . . . . . 
ŞIMLA 
The Excise & Taxation Officer, Himachal Pradesh , Himachal Dham , Simla . . 
SOLAN . 
Secretary, Municipal Committee , Solna. . , , , , , , 


܂.ܐܼܼܲ܂ܕܕܨܨܗܨܫܬ݂ܶ&ܕܕ8،ܐܽܘܘܕܢܐܬܕܕܗܗ. 


36 - 59 


1 


30 -- - 31 


35 


SEC . 8 (ü )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :MARCH 21, 1959/ PHALGUNA 30. 1880 


663 


B . Index to list of Government Securities etc. deposited under paragraph 108 of the Govern . 

mant Securities Manual. 


Item 


No, 


AGRA. 


The Commandant, Central Ordnance Dapot, Agra. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


13 


BHOPAL 


Finance Secretary, Bhopal. . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


21 


DELH /NEW DELHL 


Chief Administiative Officer, Government of India , Ministry of Defonce, Now 

Delhi. 


The Chief Chelst, Central Revenues , Control Laboratory , Government 

India , Agriculture Rescarch Institutc , New Delhi. . . . . 
Cheif Ordinance Oficer, Ordinance Depot, Shakoor Basti , Delhi . . . 
Commandant, Central Ordinance Depot, Delhi Cantt . , , , , , 
Currency Officer , Reserve Bank of India , Issue Department, New Delhi. . . 
Deputy Commissioner & Chairman District Soldiers and Airmen s Board , Delhi. 
The Director , Malaria Institute of India , Delhi. . . . . . . 
Directorate of Sugar & Vanaspati, Ministry of Food & Agriculture New Delhi. . 
Director General of Supplies & Disposals, New Delhi. . . . . . 


Executive Engineer , C -Division , C .P. W .D . New Delhi. . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


General Manager , Govt. of India Press, New Delhi.. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Housing Commissioner, Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply, New Delhi. . 


Pay & Accounts Officer, Ministry of Food & Agriculture, New Delhi. . 


. 


. 


President of India , C /o Secretary to the Government of India , Ministry of Home 

Affairs, New Delhi. . . . . . . . . . . 


Secretary, Relief & Rehabilitation , Delhi St, Government, Delhi, 


. 


. 


Secretary to the Govt. of India , Ministry of Home Affairs , New Delhi . 


. 


. 


S 


Under Secretary , Government of India , Miristry of Rehabilitation , New Delhi , 


& 


Under Secretary , Government of India , Ministry of Transport & Communications 

(Communications Department ), New Delhi , 


Under Secretary , Government of India , Ministry of Transport & Communications 
(Department of Transport), New Delhi. . 

, 


19 


664 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21, 1959 / PHALGUNA 30 , 1880 


[PART II 


List of Government Securities in the Custody of Reserve Bank of India New Delhi on the 31st 

December, 1958 Deposited in terms of Rule 12 (6 ) (5 ) (it) of Public Debt Rules 1946 


4 % 


Administrator 


Depositor 


N 
1964 


4 % 
1960 -70 


38 % 
1974 


25 % 
1976 


U . P . 


Total 


1967 


200 


200 


Public Debt 
Office , New 
Delhi 


300 


IQO 


I. Shri Sarup Narain 
2 . ShriMurari Lal 
3 . Shri Ranjit Lel . 
4 . Shri Balram , 
5. Ajmer State Co 

operative Bank 
Ltd ., Ajmer. . 


100 
500 


300 


. . 


TOO 


100 


List of Government securities in the Custody of Reserve Bank of India , New Delmas on the 3151 December, 1958 deposited in terms of Rules 12 (4X6X * ) 

the Public Debi Rules 1946 


of 


Administrator 


3 % 
1959-61 


Total 


31 % 
NP. B . 

1961 


31 % 
1962 


3 % 
C . L . 


NH 


31 % 
N . P . B . 

1967 


N .PL 


31 % 
Io years 
T . S . D . 


1960 


1961 


1964 


1946 


Cert . 


1907 


Cert 


Public Debt Office , Reserve 

Bank of India ,New Delhi 


.. 


. 


soo 


4900 


1100 


200 


200 


200 


1000 


500 


1200 


9800 


Stc.$(li)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MARCH21,1959/PHALGUNA80;1880 


665 


Lis , 


operiment Securities in the custody ofthe Reserve Bank of India ,New Delhi on the 31st December 1958 deposited under para 108 of the Govern 

ment Securities Manual, 3rd Edition 


la 


· Nameofperson or fund on whose behalf 

held 


3 % V . L . 3 % 1958 

1957 


31 % 
N . P . B . 
1961 


3 % 1959 - 

61 


31 % 
N . P . L . - 

1964 


3 % Loan 

1964 


3 
N . P . B . 

1965 


3 % 1963 

65 


N . P . B . 

1967 


- 


- 


I. Secy ., Relief & Rehabilitation to Delhi State 

Govt. , Delhi , 


2. Executive Engineer,"C’ Divn , C.P. W . D., 


. 


. 


. 


.. 


.. 


.. 


.. 


New Delhi. 


3 . Dy . Commissioner & Chairman , Distt. 

Soldiers & Airmen s Board , Delhi. 
4 . President of India c /o Secy, to Govt. of 

India , Home Affairs , New Delhi. 
5 . Secy . to Govt. of India , Ministry of Home 

Affairs , New Delhi. 
6 . ChiefAdmn. Officer , Govt of India , Minis 

try ofDefence , New Delhi. 


THỂCÀzETTEOFINDIA:MARCH2,1938PHALGUNA80,1880[PARTI 


7 . Currency Officer, Reserve Bank of India , 


7. Currency Officer Reserye Bank of India, 


. 


. 


600 


. 


. 


.. . 


2000 


IOIO 


7800 


1100000 


Iogoo 


8 . Director General of Supplies & Disposals , 

New Delhi. 
9 . Director, Malaria Institute of India , Delhi. 
IO . The Chief Chemist, Central Revenues, Con 

trol Laboratory , Govt. of India , Agriculture 

Research Last., New Delhi. 
II. General Manager, Govt. of India Press , New 

Delhi. 


12 . Directorate of Sugar & Vanaspati, Ministry 


12 . Directorate of Sugar & Vanaspati,Ministry 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


.. 


13. Commandant, Central Ordnance Depot , 

Agra , 
14. Commandant , Central Ordrance Depot , 

Delhi Cantt. 


Depot , 


Chief Ordnance Officer Ordnance 

Shakur Basti (Delhi). 


.. 


" 


1100 


16 . Pay & Accounts Officer , Ministry of Food & 40000 11000 

88500 
Agriculture , New Delhi. 
17. Under Secretary to the Govt. of India , Shares of Indian Telephone Industries Ltd . - 359 scrip of 3, 58 ,545 shares . 

Ministry of Transport & Communications 

( CommunicationsDeptt.) , New Delhi. 
18 . Under Secretary to the Govt of India , Min - Share Certificates of Rehabilitations Housing Corporation , Ltd., Delhi - 7 scrip of 20,000 shares. 

istry of Rehabilitation , New Delhi. 
19 . Under Secretary to the Govt . of India , Min - 18 scrip of 37180 shares of the Hindustan Shipyard Ltd , 

istry of Transport & Communications 

(Deptt. of Transport ), New Delhi. 
20 . Housing Commissioner, Ministry of Shares of Ashoka Hotels Ltd ., 3 scrip of 4462 shares. 

Works , Housing and Supply, Ner Delhi, 
21. Finance Secretary , Bhopal, A / c. President of 4 scrip of 1200 shares of Bank of Bhopal, 

India . 


92c.fll)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MARCH21,1959/PHALGUNA30,1880 


667 


List of Government Securities in the custody of the Reserve Bank of India , New Delhi on the 3111 December , 1958 de posited under para 

108 of ik Government Securities M tual, 3rd Edition 


668 


SL 
No. 


Name ofperson or fund on whose behalf 

held 


| 


S . 


4 % 
1960- 70 


4 % Loan 3 % 197 - 

1972 75 


21 % 
Loon 
1976 


3 % Con, 
Loan 
1946 


T. S. 


P . O . 
5 Yrs . 

N . S . 
Certifica- 

tes 


7 - Yrs . 

N . S , 
Cert. 


I. Secy . Relief & Rehabilitation to Delhi State 

Govt., Delhi . 
2 . Executive Engineer, C Diy ., CP. W . D , New 

Delhi. 
3 . Dy . Commissioner & Chairman , Distt . 


. . 


3. Dy.Commissioner & Chairman, ,, Distt. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


20200 


20200 


.. 


1500000 


200000 


5800000 


14800000 


4. President of India c /o Secy . to Govt. of 

India , Home Affairs, New Delhi . 
5. Secy , to Govt. of India ,Ministry of Home 

Affairs, New Delhi. 
6 . ChiefAdmn. Officer, Govt . of India , Minis 

try of Defence , New Delhi. 
7 . Currency Officer, Reserve Bank of Lndia , Is 

sue Deptt . , New Delhi. 
8 . Director General of Supplies & Dispoals , 

New Delhi, 
9 . Director ,Malaria Institute of India , Delhi. 
10 . The Chief Chemist, Central Revenues , Con - 

trol Laboratory , Govt. of India ,Agriculture 

Research Inst. , New Delhi, 
II. Gerxeral Manager,Govt. of India , Press, Nei 

Delhi. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MARCH21,1959/PHALGUNA30,1880 


I 2000 


28300 


23000 


114600 


I0000 


: 





- 


:: 


- 


: 


[PARTII 


: 


12 . Directorate of Sugar & Vanaspati,Ministry 

of Food & Agriculture , New Delhi, 


13. Commandant, Central Ordnance 

• Agra . 


Depot, 


Commandant, Central Ordnance 
Delhi Cantt . 


Depot, 


15 . ChiefOrdnance Officer , Ordnance Depot, 

Shakur Basti (Delhi). 


13000 


19000 


6700 


11100 


10000 


16 . Pay & Accounts Officer ,Ministry of Food & 

Agriculture ,New Delhi. 
17. Under Secretary to the Govt of India , 

Ministry of Transport & Communications 
(Communications Deptt.) , New Delhi . 


Shures of Indian Telephone Industries Ltd . - 359 scrip of 3, 58 ,545 shares. 


. 


. 


18 . Under Secretary to the Govt. of India , Share Certificates of Rehabilitations Housing Corporation, Ltd ., Delli - 7 scrip of 20 ,000 shares . 

Ministry of Rehabilitation , New Delhi. 
19 . Under Secretary to the Gɔvt. of India, Mi- 18 scrips 37180 shares of the Hindustan Shippud Ltd . 

nistry of Transport & Communications 

(Dept . of Transport ), New Delhi. 
20 . Housing Commissioner,Ministry of Works, Shares of Ashoka Hotels Ltd ., 3 scrip of 4462 shares 

Housing and Supply, New Delhi, 
21. Finance Secretary , Bhopal, Aſc. Peesident 4 scrip of 1200 shares of Bank of Bhopal. 

of India 


Serto,(11)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MARCH21,1959/PHALGUNA30,1880 


969 


List of Government Securities in the custody of the Reserve Bank of India , New Delhi on the 31st December, 1958 deposite onda pe 108 of the Govern 

ment Securities Marwal 314 Editios 


Name of person or fuad on wayze behalf P . O . 10 - Yes . P . 0 , P . O . 12 - Yrs. 4 % 
held 

N . P . 12 - Yr3 . N . P . S . Mains 
Certifi . N . S , Cer - Cert . 1963 
cate 

tificate 


4 % 
Madras 

1967 


4 % 
Madras 

1968 


Madras 

1964 


39 UP, 
1961- 66 


25 % 
Lean 
1902 


I. Secy . Relief & Rehabilitation to Delhi State 

Govt., Delhi. 


2 . Executive Engineer, C Divn . , C . P. W . D ., 

New Delhi. 


3 . Dy. Eenmissioner & Chairman , Distt . 

Soldiers & Airmen s Board , Delhi 


4 . President of India clo Secy. to Govt, of 

India , Home Affairs , New Delhi. 
s . Secy . to Goyt, of Ladia ,Ministry of Home 

Affairs , New Delhi. 
6 . Chief Admo . Officer, Govt. of India , Minis - 1 

try of Defence , New Delhi . 
7 . Currency Oficer , Reserve Bank of India , Is - 

sue Deptt., New Delbi. 
8 . Director General of Supplies & Disposals, 

New Delhi. 


. . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MARCH21,1959/PHALGUNA30,1880[PartII 


. . 


200 


1150 


140615 


1000 


31000 


- 


9 . Director, Malaria Institute of India , Delhi . 


1000 
500 


. . 

500 


10 . 


SO 


The Chief Chemist, Central Revenues , Core 
trol Laboratory , Govt. of India , Agricul 

ture Research Inst., New Delhi. 
General Manager , Govt. of India Press, New 

Delhi. 


II. 


3000 


12. Directorate of Sugar & Vanaspati, Ministry 

of Food & Agriculture , New Delhi . 


.. 


.. 


Agra, 


6300 


500 


Delhi Cantt. 


13. Commandant,Central Ordnance Depot, 
24 Commandant, Central Ordnance Depot, 
15. Chief Ordnance Office Ordnance Depar, 
16. Pay & Accounts Officer,Ministry of Food 


.. 
6300 
6100 
192665 


.. 
9500 
2400 
99000 


.. 
. 
. 
21100 


.. 
. 
. 
.. 


.. 
. 
. 
. 


.. 
. 
. 

100 


. 
. 
. 
. 


15. Chief Ordnance Officer , Ordnance 


Depot , 


2400 


und 


.. 


ZIIOO 


100 


. 


& Agriculture , New Delhi, 
12 Under Secretary to the Govt . of India , Mini- Shares of Indian Telephone Industries Ltd . - 359 scrip of 3, 58 , 545 shares . 

stry of Transport & Communications 

(Communications Deptt.), New Dehi. 
Under Secretary to the Govt. of India Share Certificates of Rehabilitations Housing Corporation , Ltd ., Delhi- 7 scrip of 20 ,000 shares . 

Ministry of Rehabilitation , New Delhi. 
Ja Under Secretary to the Govt. of India, 18 scrip of 37180 shares of the Hindustan Shipyard Ltd . 

Ministry of Transport & Communich 

tions (Deptt. of Transport ), New Delhi. 
20 . Housing Commissiona ,Ministry of Works, Shares of Ashoka Hotels Ltd . 3 scrip of 4462 shares . 

Housing and Supply , New Delhi. 
21 . Finance Secretary , Bhopal, A /c. President of 4 scrip of 1200 shares of Bank of Bhopal. 

Indio 


8pc.$(ii)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MARCH21,1999/PHALGUNA30,1880 


671 


List of Gooernment Securities in tile oustudy of the Reserve Bank of India , Neto Delle on the 31st December 1958 de postei der para los of the Goveti 

ment Securities Manual 3rd Edition 


su 


SI. 


Name of person or fund on whose behalf 


3 + 


Zio 


470 


No. 


heldt 


U . P . E . E . Andhra 
Act Bonds 1967 


Andhra 

1963 


M . P . 
1967 


4 % 3 % 

49 3 - 0 
Bombay Hydera - Hydera - Nizam Nizan 
St. Dev . bad 1951- bad St. Govt. 

Govt. 
L . 1964 61 Des . 1963 Loan Loza 

1360- 70F 1365-70F 


I. Secy , Relief & Rehabilitation to Delhi State 

Govt. , Delhi, 
2. Executive Engineer , C Divn ., C .P . V . D ., 

New Delhi 


3. Dy. Commissioner & Chairman,. Distt. 


3 . Dy . Commissioner & Chairman , Distt. 

Soldiers & Airmen s Board , Delhi. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


" . 


4 . President of India c o Secy , to Govt. of 

India , Home Affairs, New Delhi. 
5 . Secy . to Govt. of India , Ministry of Home 

Affairs, New Delhi. 
6 . Chief Admn. Officer, Govt. of India , Minis 

try of Defence , New Delhi. 
7 . Currency Officer, Reserve Bank of India , Is 

suc Deptt , New Delhi. 
8 . Director General of Supplies & Disposals, 

New Delbi. 
9. Director, Malaria Institute of India , Delhi. 
10 . The Chief Chemist, Central Revenues Con 

trol Laboratory , Gopt. of India , Agriculture 

Research Inst., New Dehi. 
II. GeneralManager, Govt. of India Press , 

New Delhi. 


----------------- THEGWEIIEOFINDIA:MARCH211959/PHALGUNA$0,1880 

ES [Part11 

: 


13200 


5000 


. 


12 . Directortte of Sugar & Vanaspati , Ministry 

of Food & Agriculture, New Delhi. 


Agra . 


S 


13. Commandant, Central Ordnance Depot. 
14. Commandant, Central Ordnance Depot, 
15. Chief Ordnance Oficer, Ordnance Depot. 


.. 
. 
. 


.. 
. 
. 


.. 
. 
. 


.. 
. 
. 
6000 


Delhi Cantt. 


.. 
. 
. 
52000 


. 
. 
. 


- 


.. 
. 
. 
. 


Sec.9(ii)] 


15. Chief Ordnance Oficer , Ordnance Depot, 


=- 


-= 


16 . Pay & Accounts Officer , Ministry of Food 

& Agriculture , New Delhi. 


3100 


Under Secretary to the Govt . of India , Minis - Shares of Indian Telephone Industries Ltd ., - 359 scrip of 3 , 58 , 545 shares . 

try of Transport & Communiations 
(Communications Depit.), New Delhi, 


- 


- 


- 


18 . Under Secretary , to the Govt of India , Share Certificates of Rehabilitations Housing Corporation , Ltd .,Delhi - 7 scrip of 20 , 000 shares , 

Ministry of Rehabilitation , New Delhi. 
19 . Under Secretary to the Govt . of India , 18 Scrip of 37180 shares of the Hindustan Shipyard Ltd . 

Ministry of Transport & Communications 

(Deptt . of Transport), New Delhi, 
20 . Housing Commissioner, Mlinistry of Works, Shares of Ashoka Hotels Lid . 3 scrip of 4462 shares. 

Housing & Supply , New Delhi. 
21. Finance Secretary , Bhopal, A c President of 4 scrip of 1200 shares of Bank of Bhopal . 

Ir. dia . 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MARCH21,1959/PIHALGUNA30,1880 


- 


- 
- 


: 


-- 


= 


T= 


= 


- 


673 


- 


674 


Securities held by the Reserve Bank of India New Delld on the 31st December 1958 deposited under para 107 of the Government securities montal (3rd 

Edition ) 
S1. Name of person or fund on whose behalf 21 % 4 % Tra 

31 % 2 % 
No . held Nizam vancore Bonds Bonds Loan 

Total 
Govt . 

Cochin 1962 1963 1960 
Loan 1963 

1363 - 73F 
I Secy , Relief & Rehabilitation to Delhi State 

1000 
Govt., Dahi, 
2 Executive Engineer C Dim . C . , P . W D . 

2175 
New Delhi, 


56875 


3 Dy. Conmissioner , & Chairman , Distt. 

Soldiers & Airmen s Board , Delhi. 


1700000 


4 . President of India c / o Secy , to Govt . of 

India , Home Affairs , New Delhi. 


5 Secy , to Govt. of India , Ministry of Home 

Affairs , New Delhi. 


20600000 


THIGAZETTEOFINDIA:MARCH21,1959/PHALGUNA80,1880 


6 


Chief Admn, Officer Govt . of India , Minis 

try of Defence , New Delhi 


3000 


a Is- 


. 


1900 


1900 


. 


3100 


7 Currency Officer, Reserve Bank of India Is 

sue Deptt., New Delhi 
8 Director General of Supplies & Disposals, 

New Delhi. 


. 
1000 


1000 


771997 . 10 


1000 


1500 


9 Director,Malaria , Institute of India Delhi. 
10 The Chief Chemist, Central Revenues , Con 

trol Laboratory , Govt. of India Agricul 

ture Research Inst., New Delhi 
11 GeneralManager, Govt. of India Press , 

New Delhi 


3300 


[PARTII 


400 


12 Directorate of Sugar & Vanaspati, Ministry 

of Food & Agriculture , New Delhi 


13 Commandaat, ConsnlOrdnance 

Agrа . 


Depot. 


14 Commandant, Central Ordnance 

Delhi Cantt . 


Depot , 


15800 


15 ChiefOrdnance Officer, Ordnance Depot, 

Shakur Basti (Dcihi) . 


8500 


16 


Pay & Accounts Officer, Ministry of Food & 

Agriculture , New Delhi, 


14000 


38000 


777965 


Shares of Indian Telephone Industries Ltd . - 359 strip of 3,58,545 shares. 


17 Under Secretary to the Govt of India ,Mini 

stry of Transport & Communications 
(Communicatioos Deptt ), New Delhi. 


Share Certificates of Rehabilitations Housing Corporation , Ltd ., Delhi - 7 scrip of 20 ,000 shares. 


18 Under Secretary to the Govt. of India Minis- 

try of Rehabilitation , New Delhi 
19 Under Secretary to the Govt. of India , Minis - 18 

try of Transport & Communications 

Deptt, of Transport), New Deibi. 
20 Housing Commissioner , Minisory of Works , 

Housing & Supply , New Delhi. 
21 Finance Secretary , Bhopal , A / c President of 4 

India . 


Spd.$(11)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MARCH21,1959/PHALGUNA20,1800 


scrip of 37180 shares of the Hindustan Shipyard Ltd . 


Shares of Ashoka Hotels Ltd , 3 krip of 4462 shares. 


scrip of 1200 shares of Bank of Bhopal 


675 


CENTRAL 


676 


Securitiesheld by the Reserve Bank of India New Dellut on the 31st December 1958 deposited under para, 101 of the Government securities Manual (3rd 

Edition ) 
- - - 

- 

31 % 
Serial Administrators. 

31 % 
Depositor N . P . B . 

3 % N . P. B . 
1961 

1963-65 1965 


No. 


IN 


.. 


Do. 


A / C , 
I Director, Indian Council of Medical Re 
search , New Delhi. 
Do . 

Paslakimedi Trust Fund . . . . 

Lt. Col. Amir Chand Trust Fund . . 
4 Secretary , Ministry of Railways Govt. of M /s. Dina Nath Sheo Pershad (Contractor). 

India , Railway Board , New Delhi. 
5 Honorary Treasurer, All India Womens Edu - All India Women s Education Fund Associa 
cation Fund Association, New Delhi, 

tion , 
6 Manager,Govt. of India Press , New Delhi , Shri Kanshi Ram Kaushal. 

Shri Kishan Sarup Saxena Cashies . . 
8 Secretary to Govt. of India , Alisistry of oth Cavalry Regiment Scholarship Fund . 

Defence , New Delhi, 
9 President Pasteur Institute & Secretary Pasteur Institute . , , , , , 

Government of India Deptt of Education 

Health & Lands , Kasauli. 
10 Land Development Officer, New Delhi . Annual Tent of Shri Sanatan Dhaçam Sabha 

Lakshmi Narain Temple Trust & Budbist 
Temple , 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MARCH21,1959/ÞHAI.GUNA30,1880 


Do . 


II The Under Secretary , Govt. of India, Parti 

tion Secretariat, New Delhi, 
12 Director General of Archaeology in India , Registrar University of Calcutua . 

New Delhi. 


SPARTII 


13 


Indian Council of Agricultural Research 


- 


10 . 11 400 


5 , 00 ,000 


9 . 50 ,000 


16 ,49, 500 


Vice President & Additional Saretary Indian 

Council of Agricultural Research , Ner 
Dohi. 


Central Sugar Cane Committee. 


. 


. 


. 


20.00,000 


10. 00 ,000 


. 


14 President & Secretary , Indian Conra Sugar Indian Central Sugar Cane Committee . 

Cane Committee , New Delhi 
IS Pay & Accounts Officer, Ministry of Works, His. Meckarzie Lyall & Co . Calutta. 

Housing & Supply , New Delhi 


. 


., 


. 


O 


. 


. 
. 


II. 


16 Treasurer of Charitable Endowments for 

India , New Delhi, 
17 Joint Controller of Defence Account, Meerut Contractors. . . . . 
18 Chief Commissioner, Delhi , 

Itnaduddaula Eodowment Fund 
19 Director of Education , Delhi Province, Delhi Kewal Ram Bai ; Lal Education Fund 
20 Director General , All India Radio , New Delhi 
21 District Judge, Delhi . . . . 
22 Executive Engineer, C .P . W . D ., C Division , 

New Delhi. 


Sec.$(11)]THEGAZETJEOLINDIA:MARCH1,1959/PHALGUNA30,1880 


23 Officer Commanding , HQ I Am Div . Engi- CRE ist. Indian Armed Division General 
neers , New Delhi. 

Fund . 


24 Officer Commanding , 39 ASit . Fd , P . K . CO ., 

C /o . 56 A . P . O ., New Delhi. 
25 Controller of Central Radio Stores Depot , 

New Delhi. 


26 Under Secretary to the Govt. of India , Minis 

try of Home Affairs , New Delhi, 


27 Central Board of Litigation & Power , Curzon 

Roed , New Delhi. 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- - 


----------- 


677 


CENTRAL 


- 


673 


Securities held by the Reserve Bank of India Neto Delhi on like 3131 December 1998 Deposited under pære, 101 of the Government Securitiesmoral 

(3rd Edition ) 


Administrators 


Depositor 


31 % 
NB. B . 

1967 


A / C 


1,48 ,200 


Į Director, Indian Council of Medical Resear . 

seard , New Delhi. 


13,25,400 


1,81,400 

24 ,400 


2 ,32, 900 


Do . Partakimedi Trust Fund , 

. 
Do. 

* Lt. Col. Amis Chand Trust Fund . . 
4 Secretary , Ministry of Railways Govt. of M /s. Dina Nath Shea Pershad (Contractor ) 

India , Railway Board , New Delhi 
s Honorary Treasurer , All India Womens Edu - All India Women s Education Fund Associa 

cation Fund Association , New Delhi. . tion . 
6 Manager , Govt . of India Press , New Delhi. ShriKanshiRam Kaushal . . . 
Do. 

ShriKishan Sarup Saxena Cashier. . . 
8 Secretary to Govt. of India Ministry of oth Cavalry Regiment Scholarship Fund . 

Defence , New Delhi. 
9 President Pasteur Institute & Secretary Pasteur Institute . . . . . .. 

Government of India Dept. of Education 

Health & Lands, Kasauli . . . 
10 Land Development Officer , New Delhi , Annual Tent of Shri Sanatan Dharam Sabha 

LakshmiNarain Teraple Trust & Budhist 
Tempke . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MARCH21,1959/PHALGUNA30,1880 


. . 


16 , 900 


4300 


.. 


61,900 


61,900 


66 , 900 


11, 300 


II The Under Secretary , Govt. of India , Parti 

tion Secretariat , New Delhi. 
12 Director General of Archaeology in India , Registrar University of Cakurta . 

New Delhi. 


2 , 000 


[PARTII 


+ 


Indian Council of Agricultural Research 


, 


Vice President & Additional Secretary Indian 

Council of Agncultural Research , New 
Delhi 


63,09,400 


1 . President & Secreary, Indian Central Sugar Indian Central Sugar Cane Committee 

Canc Committee , New Delhi 


. 


SEC.$(u)] 


1 ,601 


25 ,000 


15 Pay & Accounts Officer , Ministry of Works Ms Meckanzıc Lyall & Co , Calcutta . 

Housing & Supply , New Delhi 
16 Treasurer of Charitable Endowments for 

India , New Delhi 


1,22 ,800 
1,90 ,500 


17 Joint Controller of Defence Account,Meerut Contrac .ors 
18 Chief Commissioner , Delhi 

Itmaduddaula Endowment Fund 
19 Director of Education, Delhi Province , Delhi Kewal Ram Bani Lal Education Fund 
20 Director General, All India Radio , New Delhi 
21 District Judge, Deihi 
22 Executive Engineer, C PW. D ., C Diy 

S1on , New Delhi, 


THECAZETTEOFINDIA·MARCH21,1959/PHALGUNA$0,1880 


23 Officer Commanding , HQ 1 Arm Div . Engi- CRE Ist Indian Armed Division General 
neers , New Delhi. 

Fund 


24 Officer Commanding , 39 ASit. Fd , P K Co , 

Co. 56 APO , New Delhi, 
25 Controsker of Central Radio Stores Depot, 

New Delhi. 
26 Under Secretary to the Govt. of India ,Minis 

try of Home Affairs, New Delhi 
27 Central Board of Irrigation & Power, Curzon 

Road , New Delhi. 


6 , 17 ,700 


2 ,00, 000 


680 


CEV TRAL 
Seartilies held by the Reserve Bartal of India , Vesti Dellai on the 31st December , 1958 Depustiat under para 1. 1 of the Gullinent Securities manual 

3rd Eduion ) 


Serial 
No . 


Administrators 


Depositur 


4 . 
Madras 

1968 


P . O . 12Yr, P . 0 . 10Yr. 3196 New 
N . S . Cer - N .P . Cer - Horrah 
tificates tficates Bridge 


Total 


Deb . 


I Director , Indian Council of Medical Re 

search , Nex Delhi. 


16 ,73 ,600 


Do . 


. . 


7 


M 


Du . 


Parlakimedi Trust Fund . . . 

Lt. Col. Amir Chand Trust Fund . . . 
# Secretary, Ministry of Railways Guit of M s. Dina Nath Shev Pershad (Contractor . 

India , Railway Board , New Delhi, 


1.61,400 
26 , 400 
10 ,000 


10 ,000 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MARCH21,1959/PHALGUNA30,1880 


? 32 , 700 


. . 


5 Honorary Treasurar, All India Womens Edu - All India Women s Educatria Fund Asse 
cation Fund Association, New Delhi. 

ciation . 
6 Manager, Gott. of India Press , New Delhi , Shri KanshiRam Kaushal. . . . 
Do. 

Shri Kishan Sarup Saxena Cashier. . . 
8 Setetary to Gort, of India Ministry of Hoth Cavalry Regiment Scholarship Fund , 

Defence , New Delhi. . . 
y Preudent Pasteur Institure & Seretary Pasteur Institute . 

Government of India Deptt, of Education 

Health & Lands , Kasauli, 
10 Land Development Officer , New Delhi , Annual Tentof Shri Sanatan Dharam Sabha 

Lakshmi Narain Temple Trust & Budhist 
Temple . 


300 


500 
21,200 


1 , - 8 , 500 


II, 300 


II 


The Under Secretary. Guvt. of India , Parti 

tion Secretarjat. Next Delhi. 


250 


- 


Į2 Director General of Archaeology in India . Registrar University of Calutta . 

New Delhi, 


[PartII 


- 


2 ,000 


- 


13 


. 


. . 


1,04,20 , 300 


Vice President & Additional Secretary Indian Indian Council of Agricultural Research . 

Council of Agricultural Research , New 
Delhi, 


. 


10 ,00 , 000 


SEC.8(!!)], 


26 .600 


60, 000 


GA 


14 President & Secretary, Indian Central Sugar Indian Central Sugar Cane Committee. 

Cane Committee , New Delbi . 
15 Pay & Accounts Officer, Ministry of Works, M s.Meckanzie Lyall & Co., Calcutta . 

Housing & Supply , New Delhi. 
16 Treasurer of Charitable Endowments for 

India , New Delhi. 
17 Joint Controller of Defence Account,Meerut Contractors. . . . . . 
18 Chief Commissioner ,Delhi , . Itmaduddaula Endowment Fund . . 
19 Director of Education , DelhiProvince , Delhi Kewal Ram Baij Lal Education Fund . 
20 Director General, All India Radio , New Delhi 
21 District Judge, Delhi . . . . 
22 Executive Engineer, C . P . W . D ., C Divi 

sion , New Delhi, 


. 
. 


1 , 22 ,800 
1,90 ,500 


und 


OF 


900 
8 ,000 


64 ,600 


.. 


1. 000 


1 ,000 


. 


22 Officer Commanding , HQ i Arm Div . Ergi- CRE Ist Indian Armed Division General 
neers, New Delhi, 

Fund , 


5 . 000 


5 .000 


1,000 


21,10, 


2 Officer Commanding, 39 ASlt. Fd . P . K . Cor 

Cio . 56 A . P . O ., New Delbı. 
25 Controller of Central Radio Stores Depot, 

New Delhi. 


500 


500 


. 


1 , 000 


6 . 17 ,700 


26 Under Secretary to the Govt of India , 

Ministry of Home Affairs , New Delhi. 


27 Central Board of Irrigation & Power , Curzon 

Road , New Delhi 


. 


.. 


.. 


2,00. 000 


682 


Administrator 


3 


Depositor 


Administrator 


Depositor 


31 % 
60 NP. B . 

1961 


21 % 
196I 


21 % 
1962 


37 % 
Bonds 
1962 


1964 


31 % 
N . P . L . N .PL 
1964 1965 


. 


. 


. 


1000 


19,600 92,300 


1,500 


1000 


50500 


8600 


367000 


28 Financial Adviser & Chief Ac . Ale Contractors 

counts Officer , Northern Riy., 

New Dalhi. 
29 Do, . . . Govt. Servants 
30 Financial Adviser & Chief Ac- Contractors . 

counts Officer , N . E . Railsay, 
Gorakhpur. 


: 


.. 


.. 


. . 


: 
. 


: 
. 


. . 
1,600 


.. 
16 ,700 


. . 
30000 


. . 
3100 


. 
25400 


3600 


. . 


Do . 

. . . Govt. Servants . . . 
32 District & Sessions Judge, Delbi Sis Ganj Gurdwara , . 
33 Deputy Commissioner, Delhi . Mirza Latafat Hussain Tehsil 

Bailifi . 
34 Excise & Taxation Officer, Hima- M / s Dyer Meakin Breweries Ltd . 

chal Pradesh , Simle 
35 Secretary ,Municipal Committee , 

Solan . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MARCH21,1959/PHALGUNA80,1880 


Do. 


36 Pay & Accounts Officer,Ministry 

of Food & Agriculture , New 
Delhi. 

. . . Ms. Party & Co. Ltd . . . 

Wallace Flour Mills Co . Ltd ., 

Bombay. 
. . M /s. Val Chand Nagar Industri 

jes Ltd . 
. . M /s. Venkateshwar Flour Mills , 

Lucknox . 


LET 


[PARTII 


Do. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. . 
. . 


Do . 


Sec.9(il)] 


. 


. 


. . 


Do . , 


Do. 


Do . . 


Do . 


Do. 


10000 


Do. 
Do. 
Do. 


. Ram Lal Harbans Lal, Julludur 
. M /s. Indian Vegetable Products 

Ltd ., Bombay . 
. R .B .L . Banarsi Das & Co. Ltd., 

Ambala Cantt . 
Salig Ram Nathani, Raipur . 

Manmal Uttam Chand 
. M /s. B .C . Pal & Co., Calcutta . 
· D & P Products Ltd., Bombay . 
. M /s Kalipada Sinba . 
. M /s. Hari Chand Madan Gopal 
. R .B . Jesaram Fatehchand 

Amrit Vanaspati & Co. Ltd . , 
. M /s R . Sen & Co ., Calcutta . 
. M s Delhi Cloth & Genral Mills 

Co . Ltd ., Delhi. 
. Ghoshal Banerjee & Co., 

Calcutta . 
. Shri Srinivas Rao Raghoji 

Gulburga. 
Smt. Saradambal, Madras . 
. M /s. Kirosimal Ramchand . 

Bichhoria , Kosi Kalan 

.. (Mathura ) 
. M /s Orphan Tea Co ., Cakurta . 

Shri H . K . Dave , Clearance , 

Forwarding & Shipping 
Agent. Bhavnagar, 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MARCH21,1959/PHALGUNA80,1880 


. 


. 


.. . 


. 


. 


5400 


D 


. 


600 


Do. 


10800 


Do. 


DO. 


. 


8600 


683 


684 


3970 


4 % 


701 


P . O . 


ICO 


Si. 
No. 


Administrator 


Depositor 


3 % 
1963 


3 % 
1970 


2000 
1974 


Yr 


1896 


30 
Con , 
1946 


1066 
68 


1960 
70 


T5 


97 


NS 
Cert 


i 


195000 


2100 


58800 


2400 


62700 


1000 


302700 


900 


. 


. 
. 


. 
9300 


. . 
31500 


. 
32400 


. . 
. 


. 
20500 


. . 
600 


. . 
156000 


. 
2500 . 


25 Financial Adviser & Chief Ac - Alc Contractrs . 

couts Officer , Northern Rly . . . 
New Delhi. 

Da. · · · Govt. Servants . 
3 Financial Adviser & Chief Ac - Contractors , i 

counts Officer N . E . Railway, 
Gorakbpur . 

Du. . . . Govt. Servants . 
32 District & Sessions Judge , Delhi Sis Ganj Gurdwara 
33 Deputy Commissioner , Delhi , Mirza Latafat Hussain 

Bailiff 


. 


1000 


4900 


. . 
. . 
Tehsil 


100 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MARCH21,1959/PHALGUNA30,1880[PARTIT 


34 Excise & Taxation Officer , Hima- M / s Dyer Meakin , Breweries 
chal Pradesh Simia . 

Ltd . 20 , 000 


2000 


35 Secretary , Municipal Committee , 

Solan . 


500 


36 Pay & Accounts Officer , Minis 

try of Food & Agriculture , 
New Delhi. 


IOIO 


Do. 
Do. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


.. 
.. . 


Di. 


. 


. 


. M /s Party & Co . Ltd. . . 
. Wallace Flour Mills Co. Ltd . 

Bombay . 
. M s Wal Chand Nagar Industries 

Ltd . 
. M /s Venkateshwar Flour Mills 

Lucknow . 


.. 


20000 


. 


. 


. 


50000 


i 


S003 


= 


Lt 


-- SEC,3(ii)] 


D . . 


2500 


25000 


5900 


Ram Lal Harbans Lal , Jullundur 
. M s Indian Vegetable Products 

Ltd . , Bombay. 
. R . B . L . Banarsi Das & Co . Ltd ., 

Anbala Cantt. 
, Salig Ram Nathani, Raipur . 

Mfanmal Uttam Chand 
M s B .C . Pal & C ., Calcutta . 
D & P Products Ltd ., Bombay 
M /s Kalıpada Sinlia . . 

M / Hari Chand Madan Gopal 
. R . B . Jesaram Fatehchand - 

Amrit Vanaspati & Co. Ltd . . 
· M /s R . Sen & Co . Calcutta , 
. Alls. Delhi Cloth & General Mills 

Co . Ltd . , Delhi. 
Ghosal Banerjee & Co., Cal - 

cutta . 
ShriSrinivas Rao Raghoji, Gul 

burga . 
- Smt. Saradambal, Madras . 


Dn . 


. . 


Du. 


Du. 


31000 


26537 


----- THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MARCH21,1959/PHALGUNA30.1880 

--- 

= 

"= 


Du. 


JIU 


Do . 


.. 


Do. 


Do . 


Du. 


Du. 


· 


· 


. . 
· MB: Kirorima. Ramachandathura , 


Bichhoria , Kosi Kalan (Mathura . 


. 


.. 
.. 


De 


M s Orphan Tea Co., Calcutta 


. 


12500 


. . 


D 


. 


. Shri H . K . Dave , Clearance . 

Forwarding & Shipping 
Agent, Bhavnagar . 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - -- - - - - - 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


685 


4 % 


Administrator 


Depositor 


P . 


P . O . 
I2 Yı. MP 
N . S . 1964 
Cert. 


31 % 4 % 
Bombay Bombay 

1962 1963 


Bombay 

1964 


7 


Mysore 
St Dev. 
1963 


1968 


. . 


500 


.. 


125000 


GA 


.. 
. 


. . 


28 Financial Adviser & Chier Ac- Alc Contractors . . 

counts Officer, Northern Rly ., 
New Delhi. 

Do . . . . Govt. Servants . . . 
30 Financial Adviser & Chief Ac - Contractors . . . . 

counts Officer, N . E . Railway , 
Gorakhpur. 

Do . . . . Govt Servants . . . 
32 District & Sessions Judge, Delhi Sis Ganj Gurdwara . . 
33 Deputy Commissioner, Delhi . Mirza Lalafat Hussain Tehsil 

Bailiff. 
34 Excise & Taxation Officer, Hima. M /s Dyer Meakin Breweries Ltd . 

chal Pradesh Simla . 
35 Secretary , Municipal Committee, 

Solat . 
36 Pay & Accounts Officer , Minis 

try of Food & Agriculture , 
New Delhi 

Do, . . M /s Parry & Co, Ltd . . . 
Do. , . Wallace Flour Mills Col Ltd ., 

Bombay . 
Do . . . Mla Wal Chand Nagar Indus 

tries Ltd . 
. M /s Venkateshea Flour Mills 

Lucknow , 


EOFINDIA:MARCH21,1959/PHALGUNA30,1880 


25000 


, 


. , 
.. 


[PARTII 


. 


:: 


: 


, Ram Lal Harbans Lal, Jullundur 
. M /s Indian Vegetable Products 

Ltd ., Bombay. 
. RB. L . Bararsi Das & Co. Ltd ., 

Ambala Cantt. 
Satig Ram Nathani, Raipur . 
Manmal Uttam Chand 
M /s B .C . Pal & Co., Cakutta . 

D & P Products Ltd., Bombay 
. M /s Kalipada Sinha , . 
· M s Hari Chand Madan Gopal 

R . B . Jesaram Fatehchand 

Amrit Vanaspati & Co. Ltd . . 
. M /s R . Sea & Co., Calcutta , 
M /s Delhi Cloth & General Mills 

Co . Ltd ., Delhi. 
Ghosal Banerjee & Co., Cat 

cutta 
. Shri Srinivas Rao Raghoji, 

Gulpurga . 
- Smt. Saradambal, Madras 
. M / s. Kirorimal Ramchand 

Bichhoria , Kosi Kalan 

(Mathura ). 
. M /s Orphan Tea Co., Calcutta 
Shri H . K . Dave Clearance 

Forwarding & Shpping Apents , 
Bhavanaga , 


8:::::::::: 


SEC.3(li)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MARCH21,1959/PHALGUNA80,1880 


. .. 


.. 


: 


:: 


:: 


rem 


687 


- - - - 


- 


- - - 
- - - - 


- - 


- - - 


688 


31 


liminiratuit 


Dopript 


Iral 


40 313 , 
Bornbay U . P . F . C . P . 
1967 1 . Act. 7 . 4 . C . 

Bond Bunds 


H . U . P . 
State 
Dy. 
1903 


1963 


L . P . 
vn 


1964 


1 


) 


25000 


1339100 


24 Fucial Alvis & Chief AC- Alu Cnstracks 

Mots Officer , Northern Rly . . 
New Delhi. 


24 


Do 


Gut, Setyants 


1000 ) 


1020 


sco 


90030 


452 , 00 


. 


6300 


33300 


TOO 


2000 


30 Fuancial Adviser & Chief Ac- Contractoss . 

counts Officer , N E . Railway, 
Gorakhpur. 

Dis. . . . Gyt. Servants . . 
32 District & Sessiun Judge, Delhi Sis Gari Gurdwara . . 
33 Deputy Commissioner. Delhi - Mirza LataſatHussain Tehsil 

Bailiff. 
34 Excise & Taxation Officer, Ni s Dyer Meakin Breweries I td . 

Himachal Pradesh Simla . 
35 Secretary , Municipal Committee , 

Solan . 
36 Pay & Accounts Officer , Ministry 

of Food & Agriculture . New 
Delhi. 

Do. . . . Mi s Party Co . Ltd . . . 
Do . 

. . Wallace Flour Mills Co. Ltd , 

Bombay . 
M /s Wal Chand Nagar Industries 

Ltd . 


TIEGAZETTFOFINDIA:MARCH21,1959/PHATGUNA30,1880 


75009 


25500 


16000 


T01100 


. . 


20000 


50000 


. 
. 


" 0000 


. 
. 


M /s Venkateshwar Flour Mills, 

Lucknow 
, Ram Lal Harbans Lal , Jullindur 
. M /s. Indian Vegetable Pinducts 

Ltd ., Bombay . 


Dn. 


. . 


. . 


20000 


[PARTII 


Do . 


. 


. 


. 


R . B . L . Banarasi Das & Co . Ltd . , 

Ambala Cantt . 


. . 


. . 


25000 


II 


.!(11)] 


2 . 220 


5320 


5000 


5900 


10000 


12000 


.. 


ავეე 


Salig Ram Nathani, Raipur . 
Manmal Uttam Chand 
M /s B . C . Pal & Co., Calcutta . 

D & P Products Ltd ., Bombay 
· M /s. Kalipada Sinha 

M /s. Hari Chand Madan Gopal 
R . B . Jesaram Fatehchand 
Amrit Vanaspati & Co . Ltd . , 
M / s R . Sen & Co ., Calcutta . 
M /s Delhi Cloth & GenralMills 

Co . Ltd . , Delhi, 
Ghoshal Banerjee & Co ., 

Calcutta . 
. Shri Srinivas Rao Raghuji, 

Gulburga. 
Smt. Saradambal, Madras . 
M s Kirosimal Ramchand . 
Bichhoria , Kosi Kalan 
Mathilra ). 


57500 


3005) 


$ 


5800 


THEGAZETTFOFINDIA:MARCII21,1959/PHALGUNA30,1880 


W 


5 


. 


600 


10800 


19400 


M /s Orphan Tea Co . Calcutta . 


. 


125200 


54 


Do , 


Skoo 


Shri H . K . Dave , Clearance , 

for warding & Shipping Agenis , 
Bhavanager. 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


[No. Sec . 1140 /AgrAdmil- 59 ] 
Sd. Illegible 

Manager . 


689 


690 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21, 1959 / PHALGUNA 80 . 1880 [ PART II 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

| ERRATUM 
In the notification of the Central Board of Revenuc, No. $ . O . 504, dated 2nd 
March , 1959, published in the Gazette of India , Part II - Section 3 ( 11) , dated 7th 
March , 1959 , the following correction is to be made : - 
At page 595, proviso to rule 6 ( 2 ) , 3rd and 4th line 

for the word " recommended " read " recommenced " . 


- 


- - - --- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - -- 


- 


- 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE , BARODA 
Amendment No. 1 / 1959 to Central Excise Notifications 

Baroda , the 28th February 1959 
S . O . 612 . The following further amendment shall be made in the Baroda 
Central Excise Collectorate , Central Excise Notifcation No. 1 / 1958 . 
After Rule 180 appearing in colump 3 against Sr. No . 4 of the table in the 

said Notification , the full stop shall be changed into a comme and 

the following shall be added : 
" and proviso to Rule 174 " . 

(No. V ( a ) 24 - 1 / T /55.12441.) 

R . PRASAD , Collector. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

New Delhi, the 28th February 1959 
8 . 0 . 613. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of section 1 
of the Standards of Weights and Measures Act, 1956 (89 of 1956 ) , the Central 
Government hereby appoints the 1st day of April, 1959 , as the date on which 
the provisions of the said Act shall come into force in respect of the following 
classes of undertakings to the extent specified , namely : 
“ Cotton textile mills in so far as they undertake the sale of yarn and cotton 

textile products ( other than cloth ) or the stamping of cloth , yarn 
and other cotton textile products ," 

( No. SMC - 15 ( 4 ) / 59 / 1. ) 
8 . 0 , 614 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 14 of the Standards 
of Weights and Measures Act, 1956 ( 89 of 1956 ), the Central Government hereby 
permits , in respect of undertakings mentioned in the Notification of the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry S .O . 613 dated the 
28th February 1959 the continuand of the use , for a period of 2 years from the 
1st day of April, 1959, of any weight which immediately before that date , was in 
use in respect of the said undertakings , 

[No. SMC - 15 (4 ) / 59 / 2 . ] 
K . V . VENKATACHALAM , Jt. Secy . 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 11th March 1959 
S . O . 615 / IDRA / 18G / 27 / 59 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
18G of the Industries ( Development and Regulation ) Act , 1951 ( 65 of 1951 ) , the 
Central Government hereby makes the following amendment with effect from 
the 1st July, 1958 in the Cement Control Order, 1958 , namely : -- 

In the Schedule to the said Order, for the entries against Serial Number ( ) 
the following entries shall be substituted, namely : 
" ( 7) M /s . Dalmla Dadri Cement Ltd ., Dalmia Dadri - Rs . 58 00 ” . 

(No. Cem -8 ( 19 ) / 58.] 


Sec . 3 (i ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :MARCH 21 , 1959 /PHALGUNA 30 , 1880 


691 


S 


= 


8 , 0 . 616 / IDRA / 18G / 28 /59. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
18G of the Industries (Development and Regulation ) Act , 1951 ( 85 of 1961 ) , the 
Central Government hereby makes the following amendment in the Cement 
Control Order , 1958, namely : 

In the Schedule to the said Order , for the entries against serial number (19) , 
the following entries shall be substituted , namely : 
" ( 19 ). Messrs. Birla Jute Manufacturing Co. Ltd ., Cement Department 
Satna Cement Works, Satna - Rs. 62 - 00 " . 

[No, Cem -8 ( 32 )/ 58.] 
B . B . NAG , Under Secy . 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 11th March 1059 
S . O . 617 . - In the Ministry of Commerce and Industry s Notification No, S . O . 
506 , dated the 27th February , 1959 published at page 800 of the Gazette of India 
Part II , Section 3 , Sub - section (ii) , dated the 7th March , 1959. 
In clause ( 5 ) of the said notification : 

1 . Delete sub - clause (li) . 
2 . Re-number sub -clause ( iii) as sub - clause ( ii ) . 

[No. F . 14 (2 ) - TMP /58 .] 
K . RAJARAMAN , Under Secy . 


( Indian Standards Institution ) 
New Delhi, the 24th February 1959 


S . O . 618 - In pursuance of sub - regulation ( 1) of regulation 8 of the Indian Standards Insti 
tution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies 
that two licences , particulars of which re given in the Schedule hereto annexed , have beco granted 
authorizing the licensees to use the Standard Mark , 


THE SCHEDULE 


-- - 


--- -- 


- 


-- - 


- - 


Period of Validity 
$ 1. Licence No -- 
No, and Date 

From 


- Name and Address Article 
of the Licensec covered by 

the Licence 


Relevant Indian 

Standard 


To 


I . CM / L -1172 - 3 - 1959 

13 - 2 - 1959 


1 - 3 - 1960 


M / s. Metallica Antifric 
Works Private tion Bear - 
Ltd ., II , Worli ing Alloys . 
Road , Bombay- 18 . 


IS : 25 - 1950 Speci 
fication for Anti 
friction Bearing 
Alloys. 


2 . CM L - 118 

19 - 2 - 1959 


2 - 3 - 1959 


1- 3- 196û 


M /s. Bengal Ply - Tea -Chest 
wood Manufac - Plywood 
turing Co. , 23 / 24, Panels . 
Radh , Bazar 
Street, Clacutta . 


IS : 10 - 1993 Speci 
fication for Ply 
wood Tea - Chests 
(Revised ) . 


- 


- - - 


— 


— 


. - - 


(No, MDC/ 12 (232)- L . 
LAL C . VERMAN , 

Director, 


692 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21 , 1959 / PHALGUNA 30 , 1880 


[ PART II 


(Indian 


Standards Institution ) 


New Delhi, the 10th March 1959 


S , O . 619 - In pursuance of sub - regulation ( 1 ) of regulation of the Indian Standards Institution 
( Certification Marks ) Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that 
a licene , particulars of which are given in the Schicdule hereto annexed , has heen granted 
authorizing the licensee to use the Standard Mark . 


THT SCHEDULE 


Si. Licence 
No. No . and 

i Date 


Period of Validity 

- - 
From To 


Naic and address 
of the Licensee 


Article covered Relevatit Indian 
hy thc Licence Siandard 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


. . 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


I , CM /L -119 

9 - 3 - 1959 


16 - 3- 1959 15 - 3- 1960 


M /s. Colink In - Ink , Drawing , 
dustries, 69, In - Waterproof, 
Justrial Area , Black . 
Najafgarh Road , 
New Delhi , 


IS : 789 - 1955 
Specification for 
Ink , Drawings 
Waterproof, 
Black 


- 


- 


- 


[Nos , MDC 124274 - .). 


Noy Dulhi, ille 1011 March 1959 
S . 0 . 620 . - In pursuance of sub - regulations ( 2 ) anıt 13 ) of regulation 3 of thic Indian Standards 
Institucion (Certification Marks ) Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution hereby rotifies 
that the Indian Standards , particulars of which are given in the Schedule heiclo annexed , have heen 
established during the period ist on 15th March 1959 . 
THE SCHEDULE 

- . - - 


Serial Nu. dud title of the Indian 
No. 

Standard established 


Bricf Particula; 


No, and title of the 
Indian Standard or 
Standards , 11 any , 
Superseded by the 
new Indian Standard 


( 1 ) 


13 ) 


17 ) 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


1. 


S : 505- 1958 Specification 
for China- Clay for Rubber 
Industry . 


This standard frescriles thic re 
quircments and methods of 
sampling and test 101 china 
clay uscu in rubber industry 
as a reinforcing material and 
as a filler (Price Ry , 2 00 ). 


2 . 


IS : 910 - 1958 Specification 
for Combined Key for Hy 

ranı, Hyuirant Cover 
and Lowei Valve, 


This stundard lays down the 
requirements regarding mate 
rial, shape and dimensions, 
and manufacture of combined 
key for hydrant , hydrani cover 
and lower valve designed to 
wperate the hydrant, lower 
valve ud to lift the hydiunt 
covei . (Piica Re. I ol , 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - 


SFC. 8 ( 11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :MARCH 21, 1959 / PHALGUNA 80 , 1880 


693 


- 


- 


- 


11 ) 


( 3 ) 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


3 IS : 927- 1958 Specification for 

This standard layy down the 
Firc Hooks. 

requirements for material . 
shape and dimensions, manu 
facture and text liv tire hook . 

Price Re. 1 . 00 ). 
7 . IS : 1256 - 1958 [Code of Build 

This code stipulates standards. 
ing Byelaws. 

provisions and requirements 
for safe and stable design . 
methods of construction and 
sufficiency of materials in 
structures and regulations for 
maintenance of equipment , use 
and occupancy of all structures 

and premises. 
The requiremcot, of thus code 

shall be held to be the mini 
mum requirements in the in 
terest of publc health , sulely 
and sanitation in the construc 
tion of buildings Construc 
tions and equipment which 
vary from bul cqual or exceed 
the requirements laid down 
in this code , shall be given due 

consideration . (Price Rs. 5 .00 ). 
5 . IS : 1273 - 1958 Specification für 

This standard prescribes the re 
Leather Pump Buckets 

quirements of learlier pump 
Made from Chrome Tanned 

huckets made from chromu 
Leather , 

tanned leather , aur use in water 
system when lemperature is 
likely to be higher than normal 

temperature . (Puce Rs 1 : 50 ) . 
6 . IS : 1279 - 1958 Spccilication 

This standard cover, the require 
for Electrically Welded Mild 

ments for electrically welded 
Stcel Boiler and Supcrhcatur 

mild steel boiler and super 
Tuhes . 

heater tubes, for design steam 
temperatures not exceeding 
455C (or S5oof ). Price 

Re. 1 . 00 ). 
- - -- — 

Copies of these Indian Standards are available for sale with the Indian Standards Institution, 
Manak Bhavan , 9 Mathura Rond , New -Delli - 1 and also at its Branch Offices at 12 ) 40 /40A 
Cawasji Patel Street , Fort, Bombay - i , lii ) P - JI Mission Row Extension , Clacutta - 1, ( 012 ) 2 / 2 . 
First Line Beuch , Madras - 1. 

[No.MDC/11/ 4).] 
C . N . MODAWAL . 
Deg:ity Dir . ctor (Marly , 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


MINISTRY OF STEEL , MINES AND FUEL 


the fyese,COMME&SODA.MO,COST 


(Department of Iron and Steel) 

New Delhi, the 13th March 1959 
S . O . 621 / ESS , COMMI & S /15 ( 1 ) / A . M . ( 1 ) 59.- - The followig Nosilicata . i , d by 
the Iron and Steel Controllet du Clause 15 ( 1 ) of the Iron and Sleel /Curtoll Order , tush is 
published for general information 

" NOTIFICATION 


In exercise of thep ericu - ferred by Suh - clause ( 1) Clause 15 ifihe Iron and Sie ! 1, 1 Wir 
Order , 1956 and with the approval of the Central Government the Iron and Stec Coture lichi 


694 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21 , 1959 / PHALGUNA 30 , 1980 


[PART II 


notifies the following sectional extras for M : tric Sections of Structurals vix , Joists , Channels , 
Angles & Tees : 

Base Price Item No. 3 - Structurals . 


Extra per ton 


Metric Section 


Wt. in Kg 

Metre 


Long TonM etric Ton 


Rs. nP, 


R . OP . 


1. Joists. 


7 . 10 


67 .01 
44 . 47 
40 - 06 


44 . 92 


150 X SO 
200 x 60 
225 x 80 

75 x 50 
100 X 50 
125 X 75 
150 x 80 
175, X 90 
200 X 100 
100 X 75 
125 Y 75 
150 x 80 


12 . 80 
6 - 10 

8 . 00 
II . 90 
14 : 20 
16 . 70 


68 -09 
45 . 19 
40 . 70 
4564 
43 - 45 
32 . 08 
33 : 58 
13 . 38 
22 .67 
38 . 86 
29 . 40 
31 . 97 


42 . 76 
31 . 57 
33 . 05 
13 : 17 
22 . 31 
38 . 25 
28 . 93 
31 .46 


19 . 80 


II . 50 
13. 00 
14 . 90 


Base Price Item No. 3 - Sirujiurals . 


- 


- 


- 


Extra per ton 


Metric Section 


Wt. in Kg/ 

Metre 


Long Ton 


Metric Ton 


- 81 


— 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Rs. nP. 


Rs. nP . 


175 go 
200 X 100 
225XIIO 
250 x 125 
300 X 140 
350 X 140 
400 X 140 
450 X 150 


19 . 30 
25 . 40 
31 2 
37 . 3 


II . 57 
17 : 58 
16 . 70 
19 . 95 
13 - 47 
7 . 57 
8 .05 
7.54 


11. 39 
17 . 30 
16 
19 . 63 
13 . 26 


44 2 


52 - 4 
61 . 6 
72 . 4 


7 : 42 


2 . Channels. 


5 . 8 


7 . 9 


II - 2 
13 . 9 

7 . 9 


10 : 7 


14 4 


1716 


100 X 45 mm 
125 x 50 mm . 
175 x 60 mm 
200 X 70 mm 
100 X 50 mm 
125 X 65 mm 
150 X 75 mm 
175 x 75 inm 
200 x 75 mm 
100 X 56 min 
125 x 65 mm 
150 X 75 mm 
175 x 75 mm 
200 X 75 mm 
225 x 80 
250 x 80 
3007. 90 
350 X 100 
400 X 100 


90 . 90 
70 . 57 
15. 74 
14 . 24 
66 . 76 
$ 2 12 
38 - 46 
10 .01 

9 -61 
57 . 36 
43 . 93 
33 . 78 
9 . 24 
8 . 95 
8 . 36 
3 . 14 


89 . 46 
69 45 
15 : 49 
14 .01 
65 . 70 
51 . 30 
37 .85 
9 .85 
9 . 46 
56 . 45 
43 : 23 
33 . 25 
9 . 09 
8 . 23 


2006 


9 . 2 
12 : 7 
16 . 4 
19 : 1 
22 - 1 


8 -81 


25 . 9 


30 - 4 


3 : 09 


35 - 8 


42 . 1 
494 


17 . 81 


17 . 33 


SEC . 3 (11)] , 


GA 


OF INDIA :MARCH 21 , 1959 /PHALGUNA 80 , 1880 


695 


Extra per ton 


Equal Angles 


Long Ton 


Metric Ton 


Rg. nP . 


Rs. 9P. 


66 . 67 
5333 
66 -67 . 
53 . 33 
33 . 33 
38 . 33 
25 .00 
63. 33 
38 - 33 
25 . 00 
25 . 00 
55 . 00 
28 . 33 
16 - 67 
16 .67 


65 . 62 
$ 2 . 49 
65 . 6 
52 : 49 
32 . 80 
37 . 72 
24 . 60 
62 . 33 
37 . 72 
24 .60 
24 . 60 
54 . 13 
27 . 88 
16 : 41 


$ 5 . 00 


16 . 6 


16 -67 
53 : 00 
28 - 33 
16 . 67 
16 -67 


56 .62 


20 X 20 X 3 mm 
26 X 20 X 4 nim 
25 X 25 X 3 mm 
25 X 25 7 . 4 mm 
25 X 25 X 5 mm 
30 X 30 X 4 mm 
30 X 30 X 5 mm 
35 X 35 X 3 mm 
35 X 39 X 4 mm 
35 X 35 X 5 mm 
35 X 35 X 6 mm 
40 X 40 X 3 mm 
40 X 40 X 4 mm 
40 X 40 X 5 mm 
40 X 40 X 6 mm 
45 X 45 X 3 mm 
45 X 45 X 4 mm 
45 X 45 X 5 mm 
45 X 45 X 6 mm 
50 X 50 X 3 mm 
50 X 50 X 4 mm 
50 X 50 X 5 mm 
SOX 50 X 6 mm 
55 X 55 X 5 mm 
55 X 55 X6 mm 
55 X 55 X 8 mm 
55 X 55 X Iom 
60 X 60 X 5 mm 
60 x 60 x 6 mm 
60 X 60 X 8 mm 
60 X 60 X IQ MID 
65 x 65 x 6 mm 
65 x 65 x 8 mm 
65 X 65 X 10 mm 
70 X 70 X 5 mm 
70 X 70 X 6 mm 
70 X 70 X 8 mm 
70 X 70 X 10 mm 
75 x 75 x 5 mm 
75 X 75 X6 mm 
75 X 75 X 8 mm 
75 X 75XIo mm 
80 x 80 x 6 mm 
80 X 80 x 8 m 
80 x 80 X Io mm 
80 x 80 x 12 mm 
90 x 90 x 6 mm 
90 X 90 X 8 mm 
90 X 90X Io mm 
90 X 90 X 12 mm 
100 X 100 X 6 mm 
100 X 100 X 8 mm 
ΙΧτουX IO mm 

IOO X 100 X 12 mm 
IIO XIIOX, 8 mm 
IIO XIIOXIO mm 
IIO XIIOX 12 mm 
110X110X15 mm 
130 X 130 X 8 mm 
200 X 200 X 12 mm 
200 X 200 X 15 mm 
200 X 200 X 18 mm 
200 X 200 X 25 m 


56 .67 
46 .67 
40 . 00 
56 . 67 
56 . 67 
46 . 67 
40 - 00 
53 : 33 
40 . 00 
33 . 33 
53 . 33 
53 : 33 
40 : 00 
33 . 33 
53 . 33 
53 . 33 
40 . 00 
33 . 33 
50 . 00 
33 . 33 
25 . 00 
25 . 00 
46 -67 
26 .67 


27 . 88 
16 - 41 
16 - 41 
54 . 13 
27 . 88 
16 - 41 
16 . 41 
55 . 77 
55 . 77 
45 - 93 
39 . 37 
55 . 77 
55 .77 
45 -93 
39 - 37 
52 . 49 
39 : 37 
32 . 80 
52 . 49 
52 . 49 
39 : 37 
32 - 80 
52 . 49 
52 : 49 
39 : 37 
32 . 80 
49 21 
32 . 80 
24 . 60 
24 .60 
45 .93 
26 . 25 
6 :56 
6 . 56 


46 .67 
26 .67 


45 . 93 


6 . 67 
26 .67 


26 . 25 
6 . 56 
6 . 56 
26 . 25 
6 . 56 
6 . 56 
6 . 56 
19 . 68 
13 . 12 
13 . 12 
13 : 12 
13 . 12 


6 .67 
20 . 00 
13 : 33 
13 . 33 
13 . 33 
13 : 33 


ur 


21, 


. 80 


II 


3(6) Unequal Angles Metric sizes 


Extra per ton 
Long Ton Metric Ton 


Rs. DP 


Rs. nP . 


.... 


12XXX 


.............. 


.. 


.......... 


30 X 20 X 4 mm 
30 X 20 X 5 mm 
40 X 25 X 3 mm 
40 X 25 X 4 min 
40 X 25 X 5 mm 
40 X 25 X 6 mm 
45 X 30 X 3 mnt 
45 X 30 X 4 mm 
45 X 30 X 5 mm 
45 X 30 X . 6 mm 
50 X 30 y 3 mm 
50x30x4mm 
30 X 30 X 5 mm 
SO X 30 X 6 mm 
60 X 40 X 5 mm 
60 X 40 X 6 mm 
60 X 40 X 8 mm 
65 X 45 X 5 mm 
65 X 45 X 6 mm 
65 X 45 X 8 mm 
70 X 45X 5 mm 
70 X 45 X 6 mm 
70 x 45 x 8 mm 
70 X 45 X 10 mm 
75 X 50 X 6 mm 
75 x 50 x 8 mm 
75 X 50 XIo mm 
80 X 50 X 5 mm 
80 X 50 X 6 mm 
80 X 50 X 8 mm 
80 X 50 XI0 mm 
90 x 60 x 6 mm 
90 x 60 y 8 mm 
90 X , 60 XIo mm 
90 X 60 X 12 mm 
100 X 65 X 6 mm 
100 X 65X 8 mm 
100 X 65 X 10 mm 
100 X 75 X 6 mm 
100 X 75 X 8 mm 
100 X 75 X 10 mm 
100 X 75 X 12 mm 
125 X 75 X 6 mm 
125 X 75 X 8 mm 
125 75 X 10 mm 
125 X 95 X 6 mm 
125 X 95 X 8 mm 
125 ( 95 X IO mm 
125 X 95 X 12 mm 
ISO X 75 X 8 mm 
I90X75X Jo mm 
ICOY 75X12 mm 
150 XII5 X 8 mm 
ISO XIIS X IO mm 
ISO X IIS X 12 mm 
I50 X 115 X 15 mm 
200 X 100 X 10 mm 
200 X 100 X 12 mm 
200 X 100 X 15 mm 
200 X 150 X 10 mm 


5967 
46 . 33 
76 . 33 
49 .67 
38 00 
38 . 00 
76 . 33 
49 .67 
38 . 00 
38 . 00 
76 . 33 
49067 
38 . 00 
38 . 00 
28 . 00 
28 . 00 
21. 33 
63 . 33 
63 . 33 
53 . 33 
63 33 
63 . 33 
53 : 33 
46 . 67 
63. 63 
$ 3 : 33 
46 -67 
60 . 00 
60 . 00 
46 .67 
40 .00 
60 . 00 
46 .67 
40 . 00 
40 . 00 
56 .67 
40 . 00 
31 . 67 
56 .67 
40 . 00 
31. 67 
31 -67 
53 . 33 
33 . 33 
13 . 33 
53 : 33 
33 . 33 
13 : 33 
13 : 33 
33 . 33 
13 . 33 
13 : 33 
26 .67 
6 .67 
6 .67 
6 -62 
6 . 67 
6 .67 
6 . 67 
13 : 33 


58 . 73 
45 . 60 
75 : 12 
48 . 88 
37 . 40 
37 . 40 
75 . 12 
48 .88 
37 . 40 
37 . 40 
75 . 12 
48 . 88 
37 . 40 
37 . 40 
27 . 36 
27 : 56 
20 . 99 
62 . 33 
62 . 33 
52 : 49 
62 . 33 
62 : 33 
52 - 49 
45 . 93 
62 : 33 
52 . 49 
45 . 93 
$ 9 -05 
59 05 
45 . 93 
39 : 37 
59 .05 
45 - 93 
39 : 37 
39 37 
55 . 77 
39 . 37 
31 : 17 
55 : 77 
39 37 
31 : 17 
31 17 
52 . 49 
32 . 81 
13 : 12 
52 : 49 
32 . 81 
13 . 12 
13 : 12 
32 . 81 
13 . 12 
13 : 12 
26 . 24 
6 . 56 
6 : 56 
6 . 56 
6 . 56 
6 . 56 
6 . 56 
13 . 12 


.......... 


..... 


.. 


..... 


.... 


. 


. 


21, . . , 


3 (6) Unequal Angles Metric sizes 


Extra per ton 
Long Ton Metric Ton 

Rs. n . Rå. DP . 


200 X 150 X 12 mm 
200 X 150 XI5 mm 
200 X 150 X 18 mm 


13 . 33 
13 : 33 
13 : 33 


13 . 12 
13 . 12 
13 . 12 


4 . Tees : 


56 -67 


80 X 80 X 8 mm 
100 X IOO XI0 mm 
100 X 50 X 5 mm 
ISO X 75 X 8 mm 


40 .00 
50 - 60 


76 . 67 


55 .77 
39 . 37 
75 . 46 
49 21 


The above extras for Metric Sections are applicable to the Base Price item No . 3 (Structuralo ) 
under Appendix I (Extra List) of the Ga zette of India notification No. S . O . 2249 -ESS , COMMY 
IRON & STEEL - I5 ( 1 ) & 27 ( 1 ) published in Part II, Sec . 3 , sub -section (ii ), dated the Ist November , 
1958. 

A . S . BAM , 
Iron and Stecl, Controller." 

(No. SC (A )-2 (300 ) 58 .] 


New Delhi, the 14th March 1959 


8 . 0 . 622 / E $ 8 . 00MM . / IRON AND STEEL - 2 ( C ) / AM ( 38 ) . - In exercise of the 
powers conferred by sub - clause (c ) of clause 2 of the Iron and Steel ( Control) 
Order , 1956 , the Central Government hereby directs that the following further 
amendment shall be made to the notification of the Government of India , in the 
Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel, No . S . R . O . 2041/ ESS . COMM . / IRON AND 
STEEL -2 ( c ) , dated the 11th June, 1957, as amended from time to time, namely : 


In the Schedule annexed to the said notification , in column 2 thereof, against 
BIHAR , for the existing entry No . 1 , the following shall be substituted , namely 


" 1. Additional Under Secretary, Department of Industries and Cooperation , 

Government of Bihar ." 


( No. SC (A )- 1( 3) / 59.) 


New Delhi, the 17th March 1959 
S . O . 623 / ESS . COMM . / IRON AND STEEL 15 ( 1 ) / Am ( 2 ) . - - The following Notif 
cation løgued by the Iron and Steel Controller under proviso to Clause 15 ( 1 ) of the 
Iron and Steel (Control) Order , 1956 is published for general Information : 


NOTIFICATION 


In exercise of the powers conferred by proviso to sub -clause ( 1 ) of clause 15 
of the Iron and Steel (Control) Order, 1956 and with the approval of the Union 
Government the Iron and Steel Controller hereby notifies the following special 
concessional Col. I and Col. II ) maximum selling prices for Wire and Wire pro 
ducts to be supplied by Registered Producers and by Controlled Stockholders 
respectively to the manufacturers of engineering goods for fabricating iron and 
steel products for export purposes only . 


SCHEDULB OF Base Prices — WIRE AND WIRE PRODUCTS 


Base 
Price 
Item 
No. 


Max. Base prices f.0 . r. Calcutta , Bombay , Madras, 
Tatanagar and Burnpur per Long ton 

and Metric ton , 


Materials 


Col. I 


Col. II 


For sales by the Indian 
Steel & Wire Products 


For sales by Controlled 

Stockholders 


Ltd . 


Untested 


Tested 


Untested 


Tested 


6 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 
670 . 87 


Hard Bright Wire 2 to 3 SWG 


693 . 91 


728 .91 


mm 


660 : 27 


682 . 95 


717 . 39 


Annealed Wire 2 to 3 SWG , 


711 . 87 


721 . 87 


Ro. 
705 - 87 
694 . 72 
746 - 87 
735 .07 
818 . 76 
805 . 82 


756 . 87 


710 . 46 


744 . 91 


700 . 62 
783 . 76 


3 . 


Galvanised Wire 2 to 3 SWG 


802 .61 


837 . 61 


771. 38 


789 . 93 


824 . 37 
895 - 04 


Telegraph Wire 2 to 3 SWG 


860 - 04 


846 - 45 


880 . 90 


Barbed Wire 12G St rånd with 

14G Barb . 


943 . 94 


929 . 02 


908 - 94 
894 . 58 
793 : 28 
780 . 75 


Wire Nails 2 to 3 SWG 


. 


833 . 28 


820 : 11 


Spring Steel Wire (45 ? 

55 % Carbon content) 


lo 


1629 . 91 


1699 . 91 


1604 . 16 


1673 .05 


8 . 


Signal Wire Galvanised 48 to 

54 tons TS . . 


1902 : 04 


1972 : 04 


1871 . 99 


1940 . 88 


N . B . - Figures shown above the line indicate prices per Long ton and figures 
shown below the line indicate prices per Metric Ton ). The above price for Wire 
and Wire products are subject to the terms and conditions of sale by the Indian 
Steel and Wire Products Ltd ., Indranagar and Controlled Stockholders respec 
tively as given under Schedule II of the Notification published in the Gazette 
of India Part II, Section 3 ( il) , dated 1st November , 1958 under S . O , 2249 -ESS . 
COMM / Iron & Steel 15 ( 1 ) & 27 ( 1 ) . These prices will come into effect from 
219t March , 1959, and notwithstanding the rate at which an order has been 
booked or materials paid for , shall apply to all deliveries eftected on or after that 
date. 


$ & c. $ ( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21, 1959 / PHALGUNA 30 , 1880 


699 


All indents for supply of Wire and Wire products by the Registered Producers 
for which the above concessional prices are applicable at Column I rates , shall 
be placed through the Iron and Steel Controller , Calcutta and shall be franked 
" Export Promotion " under a seal of that organisation and signed by an Officer 
not below the rank of a Deputy Iron and Steel Controller . Indents for supply 
of Wire and Wire products at Col. II concessional prices from the specified Con 
trolled Stockholders shall be placed on the Controlled Stockholders direct on the 
authority of the Quota Certificates issucd by the Deputy Chief Controllers 
( Export Promotion ) at Madras, Bombay and Calcutta and the Deputy Director 
of Export Promotion , Ministry of Commerce and Industry , New Delhi, Indents 
from the Controlled Stockholders for re - imbursement of stocks should be duly 
supported by the Quota Certificates cashed by them and for which re -imburse 
ment is sought. 

A . S. BAM , 
Iron and Steel Controller." 


( No. SC (A )-2 (296 ) /58.] 
J. S. BAIJAL , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

( Department of Agriculture ) 
( Indian Council of Agricultural Research ) 

New Delhi, the 9th March 1959 
S . O . 624 . _ Under Section 4 ( iv ) of the Indian Cotton Cess Act, 1923 ( 14 of 1923 ) , 
the Central Government have nominated Shri Ramnath A . Podar as a representa 
tive of Bombay Millowners Association , Bombay, to be a member of the Indian 
Central Cotton Committee upto 31st March 1960 vice late Shri V . N . Chandavarkar. 

[No. 1- 12 / 58 -Com II .] 


New Delhi, the 12th March 1959 
S . O . 625 .-- " Whereas it appears to the Central Government to be necessary 
and expedient go to do for securing the equitable distribution of an essential 
commodity , namely coal: 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the 
Essential Commodities Act , 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) , the Central Government hereby 
directs that every person who owns or manages a cotton ginning or pressing 
factory shall on or before the 15th May , 1959, submit to the Secretary , Indian 
Central Cotton Committee , 14 , Nicol Road , Ballard Estate , Bombay - 1 , a statement 
in the form in the schedule appended hereto , containing true and accurate informa 
tion relating to matters mentioned therein , 


SCHEDULD 
( Intormation to be furnished by Ginning and Pressing Factories. Factories 
which do not intend to work during 1959 -60 season must clearly mention so at 
the top of this form ) . 
1. ( a ) Full name and postal address of the factory . 

(b ) Press Mark ( in the case of a pressing factory ) . 
2 . Name of the railway station at which the factory normally receives coal 
und the name of the railway on which the station is situated . 

3. Normal date of commencement and date of finishing of work in the factory , 


4 . Number of bojas of cotton (Int) of 392 lbs , each ginned (by steam power 
only ) in the factory during 1957 -58 season . 

8 . Number of bojas of cotton ( lint) of 392 lbs . each ginned ( by steam power 
only ) in the factory during 1958-59 season (up to the 30th April, 1959) . 


700 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21, 1959 / PHALGUNA 30 , 1880 


[PART JI 


6 . Number of bales of raw cotton pressed (by steam power only ) in the factory 
during 1957-58 season , 

7 . Number of bales of raw cotton pressed (by steam power only ) in the 
factory during 1958 -59 season ( up to the 30th April, 1959 ) . 

8 . Type of power plant installed in the factory . ( State whether steam , pro 
ducer gas, diesel or electric . Give detalls for gin and press separately ) . 

9. Total number of gins installed in the factory . (State whether single , double 
roller or saw gins) . 

10 . Total number gins which will work in 1959 -60 season by ( a ) Steam 
power ( b ) Other than steam power , 

11. Number of half presses installed in the factory . 
12. Number of full presses installed in the factory . 

13. Tons of coal consumed by the factory ( for ginning and / or pressing cotton 
only ) during the season 1957 - 58 . 

14 . Tons of firewood or fuel other than coal consumed by the factory ( for 
ginning and / or pressing cotton only ) during the season 1957 -58. 

15 . Tons of coal consumed by the factory (for ginning and /or pressing cotton 
only ) during the season 1958 -59 (up to the 30th April , 1958 ) . 

16 . Tons of firewood or fuel other than coal consumed by the factory ( for 
ginning and / or pressing cotton only ) during the season 1958 -59 ( up to the 30th 
April , 1969) . 

17 , Quantity of coal that the Secretary, Indian Central Cotton Committee , 
Bombay , recommended that the factory should receive during the 1958 -59 season . 

18 . Quantity of coal sanctioned by the Deputy Coal Controller (Distribution ) , 
Calcutta , for 1968- 59 season (Glve number and date of sanction ). 

19. Quantity of coal actually received by the factory as a result of items 17 
and 18 above during the 1958 -59 season (up to the 30th April, 1959 ) . 

20 . Tons of coal, if any, purchased by the factory from the market during the 
1968 - 59 season in addition to the quantity shown against item 19 . 

21. Tons of coal held in stock on the 30th April , 1959 . 

22. Tons of coal received after the 30th April, 1959 up to the date of making 
this application , as a result of Items 17 and 18 . 

23.. Tons of coal to be received after the date of this application , against R / R 
held by the factory as a result of Items 17 and 18 . 


24 . Tons of frewood or fuel other than coal held in stock on the date of making 
this application . 

25. Quantity of ( i ) Kapag (unginned cotton ) and ( it ) ginned but unpressed 
cotton actually held in stock in the factory premises on the 30th April, 1959, to 
be ginned and pressed . 


26 . Estimated quantity of cotton ( in bales of lint) expected to be ginned and / 
OT pressed during the 1959 -60 season ( including stocks shown against item 25 ) 
by steam power . 


27. Estimated quantity of coal in tong excluding the stocks of fuel shown 
against items 21, 22 , 23 and 28 required by the factory during 1959 - 60 season , 
Please also specity the number of instalments and the respective months in which 
it is desired that the required quantity should reach the factory . 


28 . Tons of coal and / or firewood not in possession of the factory but in which 
the factory has any lien or interest on the date of this application . 

29 . If the factory is a member of any pool, name and address of the Secretary 
of the pool may be given here , 


SEC. 3 ( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :MARCH 21 , 1959 /PHALGUNA 90, 1880 


701 


30 . Whether the factory was silent during 1958 -59 season . If silent owing to 
pool, please give name and postal address of the Pool Secretary . 

NOTE , - ( a ) Factories which were silent in the 1958 -59 season should produce a 
certificate in original from a local Government Gazetted Officer , to the effect 
that the factory will work during the 1959 - 60 season , which should indicate also 
his opinion regarding the estimated output ( ginning and pressing of cotton sepa 
rately ) of the factory . 

(b ) Output and consumption figures should invariably be given in the unit 
prescribed herein . 

( c ) Application should be complete in every respect. Incomplete information 
may entail delay in issue of permits . 

I declare that the factory is not receiving supplies of coal under any other 
priority classes or under recommendation from any other recommending authorities 
for the purpose for which the coal quota has now been applied for. 


Date 


Signature of Factory Manager or Proprietor . 


NOTE . — 1 , In respect of figures of stocks of fuel (vide items 21, 22 and 24 above) 
it is essential that not only stocks in possession of the factory should be shown 
but also any stocks that it may have a licn on / or that may be held by any of the 
partner or sister concerns should be shown with details, 

2 . Change of proprietorship of the factory must be intimated to the Secretary , 
Indian Central Cotton Committee , Bombay - 1, immediately the change is made. 

3. In case the factory does not require coal after the application has been made 
Or the recommendation has been issued , the factory must telegraphically intimate 
to that effect to the Secretary , Indian Central Cotton Committee , Bombay - 1. In 
the meantime, any coal, which happens to be despatched to the factory should be 
taken delivery of by the factory without delay and kept in its possession pending 
disposal instruction . Should a factory which has applied for the coal tail to take 
delivery in time, the demurrage charges and other expenses incurred on that 
account shall be borne by the factory ." 

[ No. 1- 20 /59- Com . II .] 
AJUDHIA PRASADA, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS 

( Department of Transport ) 

( Trapaport Wing ) 

MERCHANT SHIPPING 

New Delhi, the 4th March 1959 
S . O . 626 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 5 of the Indian Merchant 
Shipping ( Seamen s Employment Office, Bombay ) Rules, 1954, the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints Shri N , H . G . Grant, as member of the Seamen s Employ 
ment Board ( Foreign - going ) at the port of Bombay in place of Shri H . L . Murray 
since resigned , and makes the following amendment in the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Transport No. 12 -MT (52 ) / 57, dated the 
28th August, 1958, namely : 

In the said notification , for entry No. 7, the following entry shall be substi 
tuted , namely : 

“ 7 . Shri N . H . G . Grant” . 


[No. 15 -MT ( 2 ) /59.] 


S . K , VENKATACHALAM , Dy. Secy . 


702 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21, 1959 / PHALGUNA 30 , 1880 


(Part 10 


New Delhi, the 10th,March 1999 


(Department of Transport) 

New Delhi, the 17th March 1959 
8 .0 . 627. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (2 ) of section 1 
of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 ( 44 of 1958 ) , the Central Government hereby 
Appoints the 17th day of March 1959 as the date on which Part IV of the said 
Act shall come into force. 

(No. 33 -MS( 222 ) /58 - I. ] 

( Transport Wing ) 
8 . 0 . 028 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 15 
of the Merchant Shipping Act , 1958 , ( 44 of 1958 ) , the Central Government hereby 
constitutes the Shipping Development Fund Committee with effect from the 17th 
March 1959, and appoints the following officials to that Committee with effect 
from the same date, namely : 
(1) Dr. Nagendra Singh , I. C . S ., Director General of Shipping and Joint 

Secretary , Ministry of Transport and Communications; 
( ii) Shri S . S , Shiralkar , Joint Secretary , Ministry of Finance . 
Dr. Nagendra Singh shall be the Chairm in of the Committee . 

[No. 33 -MS( 222 ) /58 - II. ) 
S . K , GHOSH , Dy . Secy . 


New Delhi, the 12th March 1959 
S . O . 629 . - In pursuance of sub -rule (5 ) of rule 430 of the Indian Telegraphs 
rules, 1951, the Central Government hereby specifies the 16th day of April 1959 , 
as the date on which message rate system will be introduced at Vellore Telephone 
Exchange . 

[ No. 42 - 8 / 57- PHC.] 


8 . 0 . 630 . - La pursuance of sub - rule ( 5 ) of rule 430 of the Indian Telegraphs 
rules, 1951, the Central Government hereby specifles the 16th April 1959 as the 
date on which message rate system will be introduced at Mysore Telephone 
Exchange. 

[ No. 11 -8/ 59- PHC.] 
K . K . SARAN , Dy. Secy . 


(Department of Communications) 

( P , & T .) 

New Delhi, the 10th March 1959 
8 .0 . 681. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 21 of the Indian Post 
Office Act , 1898 ( 6 of 1898 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the following 
further amendment in the Indian Post Office Rules, 1933, namely : 
Clause (c) of sub -rule (1) of rule 46- B of the said rules shall be omitted . 

[No. 3 /3 / 57 -CI.) 
B . G . DESHMUKH , Under Secy . 


- 


- - 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 
(Once of the Chlef Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 21st February 1959 
S .O . 632 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (1 ) of section 
# of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabutation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 


Sec . $ ( 11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21, 1959 / PHALGUNA $0 , 1880 


703 


1954 ) , the Central Government hereby, in addition to thelr existing duties , ap 
points all the Sub - Divisional Ofcers (Civil) in the State of Punjab as Additional 
Settlement Commissioners in that State for the purpose of performing within 
their respective jurisdictions the functions assigned to an Additional Settlement 
Commissioner by or under the said Act , in respect of agricultural lands in rural 
areas including houses, cattle sheds and vacant sites, etc , if any, allotted along 
with any such lands in such areas. 

[No. 3 ( 3 )Policy-II/ 59 . ] 
RAJA LAL GUPTA, P .C .S ., Under Secy . 
- - - — 
MINISTRY OF LABOUR & EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 11th March 1959 
8 . 0 . 633. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
13 of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ), the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints Shri Sham Mohan Lal, to be an Inspector for the whole of 
the State of Andhra Pradesh for the purposes of the said Act and of any scheme 
made thereunder, in relation to an establishment belonging to , or under the 
control of, the Central Government or in relation to an establishment connected 
with a railway administration , a major port, a mine or an oil- fleld or a controlled 
industry . 

[No. PF - 1 / 31 (548 ) 59. ] 


S . O . 634 . — In pursuance of paragraph 3 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Employees Provident 
Funds Scheme, 1952 , the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour No. S .R . O . 1861, dated the 31st October , 1952 , namely : --- 

In the said notification , for entry " 10 . Shri M . L . Tapuriah , Director, Kamla 
Mills Ltd ., 45 / 47, Apollo Street, Bombay - 1” , the following entry shall be substi 
tuted , namely : 
" 10 . Shri D . S . Bakhle , Deputy Chairman , The Millowners Association , 
Elphinstone Building, Veer Nariman Road , Bombay - 1" . 

[No. PF.11. 1 (3 ) / 58 .) 
P . D . GAIHA, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 11th March 1959 
8 . 0 . 635. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 
of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Delhi, in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Hindustan Commercial Bank Limited , Gorakhpur and their work 
men . 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DELHI 
PRESENT: 
Shri E . Krishna Murti , Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 

26th February , 1959 . 
I.D . No. 200 OF 1958 

BETWEEN 
The employers in relation to the Hindustan Commercial Bank Lunited , 

Gorakhpur. 


AND 


Their workmen . 
Shri Onkar Nath - for the management. 
Shri H . L . Parvana - for the urorkman . 


* 704 


THE GAZETI E OF INDIA : MARCH 21, 1959 / PHALGUNA 30 , 1880 


[Part II 


= 


AWARD 


By G . O . No. S . O . LRII - 10 ( 113 ) /58, dated the 7th October, 1958, the industrial 
dispute, between the employers in relation to the Hindustan Commercial Bank 
Limited , Gorakhpur , and their workman , Shri G . N . Singh , whose dispute has been 
taken up by the U . P . Bank Employees Union , Gorakhpur , has been referred to 
this Tribunal for adjudication under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act , 1947. 


2 . The term of reference is as follows:- - 
Whether the duties performed by Shri G . N : Singh , a workman of the 

Hindustan Commercial Bank Limited , Gorakhpur, are those of a 
supervisor or of a Head Clerk for the purpose of special allowance 
payablc under paragraph 164 of the award of the All India Industria ) 
Tribunal ( Bank Disputes) constituted by the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour No. S . R . O . 35 , dated 
the 5th January , 1952, as modified by the decision of the Labour 
Appellate Tribunal in the manner referred to in Section 3 of the 
Industrial Disputes ( Banking Companies ) Decision Act , 1955 (41 of 
1955 ) . 


3 . The allegations in the statement of claim are, that Shri G . N . Singh was 
posted at the Gorakhpur Branch of the Hindustan Commercial Bank Limited on 
9th March 1955 as Head Clerk , that Shri G . N . Singh was performing various 
duties of a supervisory nature , in checking various accounts , that however the 
Bank did not pay him the special allowance payable to him , that the Bank hari 
deliberately maintained wrong designation in the case of Shri G . N . Singh , and 
contravened the terms of the Bank Award , that duties similar to those performed 
by Shri G . N Singh are normally performed by Supervisors in other banks, and 
that Shri G . N . Singh is entitled to be paid special allowance at the rate of Rs. 40 
per month from 7th March , 1955 . 


4 . The reply of the Bank is, that it is not true , that Shri G . N . Singh was 
entrusted with any duty which could make him Departmental Incharge , as alleged 
by him , that the duties performed by him are of those of Head Clerk , prescribed 
by the Bank , that the Head Clerks have limited and lesser responsibility than 
that of Accountants , that Shri G . N . Singh has not been performing any duties 
similar to those of Accountant or Sub -Agent or Supervisor, that he is not entitled 
to special allowance of Rs. 40 per month , that comparison with other banks is not 
valid , when the Hindustan Commercial Bank Limited is only a C Class bank , 
that, in any case , the representation for special allowance was made after a long 
delay of 15 years, and that he is not entitled to the amount, as claimed . 

5 . The issue , that arises for determination , is :— 


Whether Shri G . N . Singh performed the duties of a Supervisor , and is 

entitled to special allowance payable under paragraph 164 of the 
award of the All India Industrial Tribunal (Bank Disputes ) . 


6 . This is a dispute between the Hindustan Commercial Bank Limited , Gorakh 
pur, and their workmen , 


7. The dispute arises with reference to Shri G . N . Şingh , an employee of the 
Hindustan Commercial Bank Limited , Gorakhpur. His designation in the said 
Branch is that of a Head Clerk . The contention on behalf of the workman is , 
that he has been in fact doing the duties of a Supervisor , and that he is 
accordingly entitled to special allowance of Rs. 40 per month , payable under 
paragraph 164 of the All India Industrial Tribunal (Bank Disputes ) award , referred 
to in the course of arguments by either side as " Sastry Award " . Even in the 
item of reference there is mention of paragraph 164 of the said award , and it lays 
down certain categories of employees , who are to be paid special allowance. 
Among them category No. 9 includes Supervisors, Superintendents , Sub 
accountants , departmental- in -charges , and others . For a C Class bank the 
special allowance prescribed is Rs. 40 per month . It is admitted , that the 
Hindustan Commercial Bank Ltd is a C Class bank , and that is why special 
allowance of Rs. 40 a month is claimed on behalf of Shri G . N . Singh . 

8 . The contention on behalf of the Bank is, that the employee in question has 
been doing only the duties of a Head Clerk , and not of a Supervisor, and that he 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Sec . 8 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21, 1959 /PHALGUNA 30, 1880 

- = 

- 
is not entitled to the allowance , as demanded . The point for decision is , whether 
Shri G . N . Singh has been doing the duties of a Supervisor, as alleged by him , to 
be included in Category No. 9 , for whom special allowance has been prescribed . 
It is true, that he is designated as Head Clerk , Ext , M / 16 is the order , dated 
7th March 1955 , transferring him to Gorakhpur as Head Clerk . The reason for 
the transfer is stated to be the fact, that the Agent at Gorakhpur remained out 
of station on account of inspection of godowns, legal cases, and development of 
business . Ext. M / 14 is a copy of the letter dated 23rd December 1957, wherein 
Shri G . N , Singh demanded Rs. 40 per month as spccial allowance . Reference 
may be made in this connection to the observations in the Sastry Award in para 
graphs 167 and 168 . In paragraph 167 the following observations occur : — 


" In big banks where there is a hierarchy of officers there may be a chief 

accountant, accountants and sub - accountants . In most of those cases 
the " accountants " will probably be officers . There will however be 
incumbents of such posts , though going under the dignified designation 
of accountants who are in reality only senior clerks doing higher 
type of clerical work involving an element of supervision over other 
clerks as part of their duties. In such cases where they can properly 
be regarded as workmen the minimum allowances which we have 
fixed for sub - accountants would equally apply to them ." 


In paragraph 168 there is mention of certain categories described by such terms 
as junior assistants and senior assistants. It is observed therein , " that the terms 
do not by themselves indicate the nature of the work entrusted to them . 
Irrespective of their designation , in so far as their work falls under clerical 
work , though of a higher type , as explained by us in our discussion relating to 
categories of workmen in our award in a later chapter , they must also be entitled 
to the scales of pay , minimum special allowance etc . which we have prescribed 
for the appropriate kind of work during such periods as they are in charge of 
that kind of work . " It is , therefore , clear, that the designation of a particular 
employee is not the test. The question , whether he is entitled to the special 
allowance prescribed depends upon the actual duties performed by him , irrespec 
tive of the designation . In the award of the Labour Appellate Tribunal at page 83 
there is reference to the fact, that the various categories are not helpful, and 
that the appropriate allowance would have to be paid having regard to the duties 
and responsibilities of a post . Moreover , Ext. M / 1 is a book of instructions Alled 
on behalf of the Bank , and nowhere is there a category of Head Clerk , or the 
duties pertaining to such an employee . It is perfectly obvious, that inerely 
because Shri G . N . Singh was designated as Head Clerk , that is no reason for 
depriving him of the special allowance . The true test would be about the duties 
that he had been actually performing in the Bank . 


9 . In order to prove , that Shri G . N . Singh had been actually performing the 
duties of a Supervisor in the Gorakhpur Branch ever since he was transferred 
there, reliance has been placed on a considerable body of evidence. At the outset 
I may refer to the oral evidence, that has been adduced in this case , Shri G . N . 
Singh deposes as ww1, that Ext. W / 1 contains the duties, that he has been 
actually performing since he became a Head Clerk . He has been signing in 
various documents of the Bank as Accountant or Officer - in - charge. He is Depart 
mental Incharge of Savings Bank , current account, fixed deposit, call and short 
term deposit , bills department, clearing department, bills payable department, 
and despatch department. He gave instructions to the clerks whenever any 
irregularities were existing . He has been doing also clerical duties when there 
was shortage of staff . WW2 is Shri G . C . Kapur, who is Accountant in the New 
Delhi Branch of the Bank since August , 1957. The evidence of Shri Kapur is . 
that he was designated as Head Clerk prior thereto , and he served as Head Clerk 
in the Delhi Branch . He was being paid Rs. 15 , the special allowance payable 
to Head Clerk in accordance with the Sastry Award: But he agitated for payment 
of Rs. 40 , as he was performing supervisory functions. A representation was 
made through the Union in 1955 or 1956 . The Union took up his case and ulti 
mately there was a compromise before the Labour Commissioner, Kanpur , by 
which the Bank agreed to pay him Rs. 40 . This agreement was arrived at in 
1957. Since then he is called Accountant. When his attention is drawn to Ext. 
W / 1 , the list of duties performed by Shree Singh , he says, that he had been 
performing duties, items Nos. 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 9, 13 , 14 , 15 , 16 , 17, 18 , 19 , 20 - 30 , 32 and 
33 . In short, Shri Kapur says, that there is no other duty , which he has been 
performing , and which he performs, other than those mentioned in Ext. W / 1 . In 
fact the duties in Ext. W / 1 are more than what he has been actually discharging . 


706 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21, 1939 /PHALGUNA 30 , 1880 [Part II 

- - - - 
WW3 is Shri Har Narayan , who is Supervisor in Chandni Chowk Branch of the 
Bank . An order was passed , that he should be paid Rs. 40 , special allowance . 
only in May , 1958 . Prior thereto he was being raid only Rs. 15 , as he was 
designated Head Clerk . When he raised a demand through his Union , there was 
an arrangement before the Labour Commissioner , Kanpur , and the Bank agreed 
to pay him the special allowance. He has deposed , that he has been performing 
the same duties even after he was designated as Supervisor in May , 1958 . Even 
before this , when he was designated as Head Clerk , he was discharging the same 
duties as he is now discharging as Supervisor. In the list, Ext. W / 1, he has been 
performing duties listed there as items No. 4 - 8 , 11 , 12, 15 - 18 , 19 in part, 20 , 21, 
22 . 23 and 28 in part , 30 , and 33 . He countersigns certain documents as Accountant 
along with the Agent. That there were demands raised through the Union for 
payment of special allowance in respect of the above -mentioned workmen , and 
that agreements were reached before the Regional Labour Commissioner, Kanpur, 
cannot be disputed. Exts . W / 21 and 22 are letters that were addressed by the 
Union to the Bank , and Ext. W / 23 is a reply of the Bank dated 20th August , 1956 , 
rejecting the claim of Shri G . C . Kapur, Shri Har Narayan , and Shri D . P . 
Mehrotra for special allowance of Rs. 40 , as they were only Head Clerks. Exis . 
W / 27 — 33 relate to the correspondence with the Regional Labour Commissioner 
in respect of the above claim . Exts . W / 24 and 25 are copies of the compromise 
dated 13th March 1958 , wherein it was agreed , that Rs. 40 per month would be 
paid to Messrs . G . C . Kapur and Har Narayan from 1st August 1957 by way of 
special allowance. The above evidence does establish , that Shri G . N . Singh has 
been performing duties similar to those performed by Messrs . G . C . Kapur and 
Har Narayan , and that the Bank recognised the fact, that the two latter were dis 
charging supervisory functions, entitling them to receive the special allowance or 
Rs. 40 , even though they were styled as Head Clerks. Shri G . N . Singh has been 
performing not only the duties which they have been performing , but also other 
duties , over and above those which they had been performing, and more parti 
cularly listed in Ext. W / 1 . In such circumstances, I fail to see how it can be 
held , that he is only a Head Clerk , and not a Supervisor, and that he is not dis 
charging any supervisory functions. 


10 . However, reference has been made on behalf of the Bank to Exts , M / 17 – 21. 
Ext . M / 21 dated 29th October 1956 has been produced as containing the duties 
fixed by the Head Office for Shri G . N . Singh . _ There is an endorsement thereon , 
that the employee accepted it under protest. Ext. M / 17 is the copy of duty list 
given by Shri G . N . Singh dated 23rd December 1957. Ext . M /37 is an extract of 
duty list, as given by the Branch , and attached with the audit report . A perusal 
of this list shows, that Shri G . N . Şingh was checking C / D ledgers . Sayings 
Bank , Cash Book , P & L , Central Accounts Statements , I. B . C . and O . B . C ., and was 
doing the duty of Passing of routine, and supervision over office routine work , and 
Stationery , Exts . M / 31 — 36 are documents produced by the Bank , ag containing 
the duty list of Sub - Agents , Accountants and Assistant Accountants at various 
Branches and Sub - Branches . A perusal of the lists , Exts . M / 37 and W / 1 would 
show , that Shri G . N . Singh has been performing practically the same duties as 
those performed by the several employees as in Exts , M / 31 – 36 . 


11. Again , according to the evidence of Shri G . N . Singh , he has been signing 
Mo Accountant, or Officer-in -charge singly , or with the Agent in various forms 
relating to transactions with the Bank . Exts. W / 4 - 20 are the forms in question , 
and the evidence of Shri G . N , Singh is , that he has been signing in all such 
papers as Accountant or Omcer - in - charge. On behalf of the workman , attention 
has been drawn to Ext. M / 1 , Chapter IV , in relation to bills. At page 11 , with 
reference to Inward Bills , there is a provision , that bills should be sent to the 
Officer - in - charge for checking . Exts . M / 18 – 20 have been produced as entries 
checked by Shri Singh in this connection . Exts. M /22- - 30 have been produced 
to show , that he allowed cheques to pass on his own responsibility for amounts 
over and above Rs. 500 . Exts . M / 38 and 39 have been filed as copies of ledgers 
relating to Savings Bank and Current Deposit , that were checked by Shri Singh . 
Ext. M / 41 has been filed to show , that Shri G . N . Şingh was initialling along with 
Shri M . P . Singh , the Agent, pages in the Subsidiary Register . Again , in Chapter 
VII , page 23 , it is laid down , that a Supervisor will be responsible to the 
Accountant for efficient working of the department and also offrin e ni Sub 
Accountant in his absence. In the Gorakhpur Branch , it is admitted , that there 
is no Accountant. The evidence of Shri G . N . Singh is , that in the Gorakhpur 
Branch , there are two clerks, 3 Godown -keepers, 2 Cashiera , 2 Prons, and 2 
armed guards, excluding himself and the Agent. It is reasonable to hold that he 


- 


has been doing the duties of a supervisor in the absence of an Accountant or a 
Sub -Accountant, and , in fact, he has been signing in places indicated as Accountant 
or Officer - in - charge, In Chapter I of Ext. M / 1 , relating to opening of Current 
Deposit , there is a provision , that the Officer - in - charge should put his initials after 
careful examination . In case of over - drafts , limits should be initialled by the 
Officer - in - charge of the department. Itens 7 and 8 in Chapter I at page 1 contain 
instructions relating to the checking of entries in current account by a Supervisor , 
or Officer - in - charge. It is clear from the evidence , that Shri G . N . Singh has 
been discharging all these duties . Again , Exts , M / 2 — 10 contain certificates on 
balances for various months. Certain of the entries are certified to be correct 
by Shri Singh . Particularly , attention has been drawn on behalf of the workman 
to Exts . M / 4 - 7, and 9 , wherein Shri G . N . Singh has signed as Officer - in - charge. 
Nextly , attention has been drawn to Ext. M / 15 , which is a circular relating to the 
issue of withdrawal forms for Savings Bank account. Provision has been made 
therein for signatures of the Bank Supervisor dealing with the Savings Bank 
Account before issue of such forms. It is the case of the workman , that he has 
been supervising the issue of withdrawal forms, 


12 . On behalf of the Bank , Exts . M /54 – 65 have been produced to show , that 
Shri Singh had been dealing with cheques only upto a limit of Rs. 500 , and that 
this shows, that he was not discharging any supervisory functions. On behalf of 
the workman emphasis is laid on Exts . M / 67 – 80, showing that he was dealing 
with cheques for amounts larger than Rs. 500 . Nextly , Exts , M / 46 – 53 have been 
referred to , and these contain certificate of balances . They relate to certain 
months during the period between October 1958 and August , 1958 . They contain 
entries, that certain items were checked by Shri G . N Singh as Head Clerk , and 
some by the Agent. It should be pointed out, that they are not signed by Shri G . 
N . Singh as Oficer - in - Charge. The contention on behalf of the Union is , that the 
dispute arose between Shri G . N . Singh and the Bank in regard to the payment 
of special allowance , and , therefore, he was not permitted to sign in the above 
mentioned documents , though he had been pepmitted to sign in the places indicated 
for the signatures of Accountant and Officer - in - charge in documents of a prior 
period . In this connection reference may be made to Ext. M / 11 dated 27th May 
1957, addressed by the Head Office to the Agent at Gorakhpur, objecting to the 
fact , that in Form No. 103 Shri Singh was every month giving the certificate as 
Officer - in - charge of the bills. Exts . M / 2 — 10 , and 46 - 53 are in form No. 103 . In 
Ext. M / 11 the Agent was informed , that Shri Singh should be allowed to sign as 
Head Clerk and not by any other designation , Ext. M / 12 is the reply of the 
Agent, and therein it is stated , that formerly Shri G . N , Singh used to sign form 
No. 103 as Officer - in - Charge of the Bills Department, but, after the receipt of the 
letter , dated 10th October 1956 , he was not allowed to sign as such . Further a 
List is given of the duties which he was performing. Obviously , after Shri Singh 
raised a dispute about the payment of special allowance, it was made to appcar, 
that he was not discharging duties of a supervisory nature . This cannot however 
make any difference to the conclusion , that he was in fact performing duties 
pertaining to the office of Supervisor , or an Officer - in - charge, 


13 . Whatever doubts might exist are dispelled by the power of attorney , that 
was granted in the name of Shri Singh , a copy of which is marked as Ext. W / 2 . 
This is dated 30th March 1955. A perusal thereof shows, that, in fact, he was 
empowered to discharge all kinds of duties in connection with the business of 
the Bank . The evidence of Shri G N . Singh is that he was given a power of 
attorney of A Class . According to the evidence of WW2, Shri G . C . Kapur, he 
had been given a power of attorney of the B Class. B Class is inferior to A 
Class . When Shri G . C . Kapur, who is holder of power of attorney of B Class , 
has been termed as " Accountant" , and is being paid special allowance as such , it 
is not reasonable to hold , that Shri G , N , Singh is not discharging functions of a 
supervisory nature , when he is the holder of power of attorney of the A Class , 
which is superior to that of B Class . Clauses 1 - 5 relate to the acts to be done 
by Shri G . N . Singh jointly with any other officer of the bank , and No. 6 , 7 and 
8 relate to acts to be done singly , and without joining any other officer of the 
bank . Cause 9 empowers the holder of the power of attorney to do such acts 
As may be needed necessary in the course of general business of the bank , 


14 . A consideration of the entire evidence establishes , that Shri G . N . Singh 
has been doing duties of a Supervisor, and an Officer - in - charge ever since he 
joined the Gorakhpur Branch . Though he has been termed as " Head Clerk " , he 
has been doing duties pertaining to the office of Supervisor , and has been per 
formning at least the same duties as those performed by WW8 2 and 3 , if not more 


708 


OF 


. : MA . 


21, 


I 


AL 


A $0 , 1-880 


[Part II 


= 


The fact, that he has been designated only as "Head Clerk ” does not matter in 
the least. He does come within category No . 9 of paragraph 164 of the Sastry 
Award , and he is entitled to special allowance of Rs. 40 per month . I find 
accordingly . 

15 . The next question is as to the date from which he is entitled to recover 
the amount of special allowance . No doubt, the claim has been made for the 
allowance from 7th March 1955 , In the management s written statement it is 
stated , that the representation was made for special allowance in November , 1950 . 
As a matter of compromise , Messrs . G . C . Kapur and Har Narayan were agreed 
to be given the special allowance from Ist August 1957 . Realising this , Shri 
Parvana for the workman has agreed , vide memorandum , Ext. W / 34 , that the 
special allowance may be paid to Shri G . N . Singh also from 1st August 1957. This 
seems to be fair and reasonable , and no exception can be taken to the same. It 
was the duty of the Bank to have implemented the terms of the Award . I find , 
that Shri G . N . Singh is entitled to recover special allowance at the rate of Rs. 40 
per month from 1st August, 1957. 

18 . In the result , an award is passed as follows: 


( i) The duties performed by Shri G . N , Singh of the Hindustan Commercial 

Bank Limited , Gorakhpur, are those of a Supervisor of a C Class 
bank for the purpose of special allowance of Rs. 40 per month , pay 
able under paragraph 164 of the award of the All India Industrial 
Tribunal ( Bank Disputes ) , as modified by the decision of the Labour 
Appellate Tribunal in the manner referred to in section 3 of the 
Industrial Disputes ( Banking Companies) Decision Act , 1955 (41 of 
1955 ) , and it is hereby directed , that the management of the Hindustan 
Commercial Bank Limited , Gorakhpur shall pay to Shri G . N . Singh 
such special allowance at the rate of Rs. 40 per month , payable to a 
Supervisor of a C Class bank , as in category No. 9 in paragraph 164 

of the award , stated above, from 1st August 1957 onwards. 
( i ) No order as to costs. 
( Thirteen pages ) 
the 26th February , 1959. 

E . KRISHNA MURTI, 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Delhi. 

[ No. LRII/ 10 (113 )/ 58 .) 
New Delhi, the 14th March 1959 
8 . 0 , 636 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section o 
of the Industrial Disputes (Banking Companies ) Decision Act, 1955 (41 of 1955 ), 
the Central Government hereby specifies the Central Government Industrial 
Tribunal at Nagpur constituted under section 7A of the Industrial Disputes Act , 
1947 ( 14 of 1947 ), by the notifcation of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour No. 768, dated the 10th March , 1957, as industrial tribunal to which any 
matter as is referred to in the said sub - section may be referred for decision under 
that sub -section , 

( LR .II. 10 ( 77 ) /58-1.) 
New Delhi, the 18th March 1969 
8 . 0 . 637.- - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award 
of the Industrial Tribunal, Nagpur at Bombay , in the industrial dispute between 
the employers in relation to the Chargaon Group of Manganesc Mines of Messrs . 
Best Minerals (Private ) Ltd ., Nagpur and their workmen regarding dismissal 
of 99 Koal Community Workers : 
BEFORE SHRI P . D . VYAS , JUDGE, CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 

TRIBUNAL , NAGPUR AT BOMBAY 
REFERENCE ( CGIT ) No. 7 of 1958 . 

AN ADJUDICATION BETWEEN 
The employers in relation to the Chargaon Group of Manganese Mines of 
Messrs . Best Minerals (Private ) Limited , Nagpur 

AND 

Their Workmen . 
In the matter of an industrial dispute regarding dismissal of 99 Koal Com 
munity Workers . 


- 


- 


- 3 

. 21, sv . 
- - - - - - 
APPEARANCES : 
Sarvashri A . S . Bobde and G . L . Sanghi, Advocates with Shri A . V . 

Bhide _ for the Management. 
Shri N . H . Kumbharc, Advocate for the workmen , 


AWARD 


In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of the sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , the Central Government was 
pleased to refer an industrial dispute between the employers in relation to the 
Chargaon Group of Manganese Mines of Messrs. Best Minerals ( Private ) Ltd ., 
Nagpur and their workmen for adjudication to me under the Government Order 
No. LRII / 11- ( 17) / 58 , dated 9th May , 1958 . The dispute relates to the matters 
specificd in the schedule annexed to the said order. 


THE SCHEDULE 
( 1 ) Whether the management was justifled in dismissing 99 Koal Com 

munity Workers whose names are given in the list , hereto annexed ; 
( 2 ) If not , to what relief are these workers entitled ? 


List of Koal Community Workers dismissed from Chargaon Group of Mines of 

Messrs. Best Minerals (Private ) Limited , Nagpur 


1. Shireeram Mallu Koal. 
2 . Jamini Mallu Koal. 
3 . Ramfal Chhatradhari. 
4 . Mahingi Ramfal. 
5 . Chhota Bhawani Koa ). 
8 . Sukhawar Chhota . 
7 . Lahani Kisan . 
8 . Chunnilal Badal, 
9 . Maiki Chunnilal, 
10 , Dularie Bansi, 
11 . Kausal Dulare. 
12. Mangal Bansadhari, 
13 . Nathu Gopal. 
14 . Babulal Hira , 
15 . Sugri Babulal. 
18 . Sahadeo Kandhal. 
17. Sukawar Sahadeo . 
18 . Betasia Budhai. 
19 . Kallu Pyarelal. 
20 . Narmad Kallu , 
21. Poto Gougu . 
22. Basodi Bhura . 
23 . Mungia Basodi. 
24 . Wadaka Pandhari. 
25 . Sakiva Wadka . 
26 . Lila Onkar , 
27. Rania Ganesh , 
28. Pyarelal Kalloo . 
29. Punia Pyarelal. 
30 . Manto Narmad . 
31 . Rajau Manted . 
32 . Bhaiyalal Chaita . 
33. Maingi Bhayallal. 
94 . Sukharam Manta . 
36 . Mulai Bhanta . 
36 . Dubasia Mulai. 
37. Munni Sukharam , 
38 . Parbati Ramdayal, 
39 , Hiralal Dulare, 
40 . Budhu Dulare. 
41. Kashi Hiralal. 
49 . Shanti Budhu . 
43. Chhoti Dulare . 
44 . Ramlya Pyarelal. 


710 


. 


GA 


OF 


A : MARCH 21, 1959/ PHALGUNA 50 , 1880 


[PART II 


45. Majla Kalu . 
46 . Chhota Kalu . 
47 . Nimiya Majla . 
48 . Satiya Chhota . 
49 . Bhaiyalal Chhota . 
50. Sukhawar Bhaiyalal . 
51, Poladina. 
52. Ramprasad Pola . 
53. Sukhawar Pola . 
54. Fagni Gainu . 
55 , Baisakhi Bansi. 
56 . Nayell Bai Sakhu . 
57. Ramlal Bhagirath , 
58. Bansanti Ramlal, 
59 . Ramlal Rajje . 
60. Rambai Shamlal. 
61. Bisram Shipai. 
62, Bisram Bharat. 
63 . Rajni Bisram . 
04 . Bhaddi Banchal , 
65 . Tijau Mangal. 
66 . Munia Tljau . 
67. Babulal Chaitra . 
68 . Itwaria Babulal. 
89 . Pancham Mahanu . 
70 . Itwaria Pancham . 
71, Mahesha Thakurdin , 
72 . Kharia Hari. 
73, Sukhawar Mulai. 
74 . Hiria Radhve . 
75 . Badri Baisakhu . 
76 . Kandhi Mangalal. 
77 . Babi Bhaiyalal. 
78 . Sudarshan Baldeo . 
79 . Pusu Firtu . 
80 . Dhuria Mahengu . 
81. Daya Dhuria . 
82. Batasla Dhuria . 
83 . Kamla Daya . 
84. Laghu Gopal 
85 , Shipai Kalu . 
86 . Kaundhi Mangal, 
87 . Kanhaiyalal Bhaiyalal. 
88 . Taya Bhaiyalal, 
89. Shamle Munde . 
90 . Soni Şamle. 
91, Rangu Sipal. 
92 . Khodia Mantilal. 
93 . Pusia Godhilal, 
94 , Hidi Gahenu . 
95 . Dalla Chaita . 
98 . Sunder Dalla . 
97 . Dharmi Shankar , 
98 . Mahengi Shambhoo . 
99 . Baini Babulal. 


N . B .— The addresses of workers are c / o General Secretary , Manganese Koyala 
Khan Kamgar Union , near Mahal, Nagpur . 


2 . On the usual notices being issued , the General Secretary , Manganese 
Koyala Khan Kamgar Union has filed the statement of claims on behalf of the 
workmen and the Secretary of Best Minerals (Private ) Limited , has Aled the 
written statement on the employers behalf, 


3 . The list of the 99 dismissed workmen together with their names is attach 
ed to the schedule annexed to the Government Order of reference . In this list 
we find that at serial Nos. 76 and 86 the name of the same person appears and 
to the number of persons concerned really comes to 98 out of whom admittedly 


SEC, 9 (11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21, 1959 /PHALGUNA 50 , 1880 


711 


4 , namely those at serial Nos . 76 (86 ) , 78 , 79 and 87 are outsiders. The remain 
ing 94 are the workers concerned , out of whom 55 have been taken back in the 
result of the apologies tendered by them . The question of the said apologies 
I will discuss later , but for the time it may be stated that 55 workers out of 
94 concerned workmen having already been taken back in employment, the 
dispute now survives to the remaining 39 workmen in order to see whether the 
management was justified in dismissing them and if not to what relief they are 
entitled , 


4 . The case on behalf of the workmen is that the incident took place on 
11th January , 1958 when the demarcation of the boundaries between the 
Chargaon Group of Manganese Mincs of Messrs. Best Minerals ( Private ) 
Limited and adjoining Mine was going on . The General Manager of the Com 
pany , Shri Parashar Singh and Chargaon Group Mine Manager , Shri Dayalal 
Joshi went to the spot where the coolies of the Government Surveyors were 
working on the boundary for demarcation and inquired of one of the coolies, 
viz ., Kowandhi as to under whose orders he was doing that work . Even though 
the said coolie explained the matter, they began to abuse him and even to beat 
him in the hot exchange of words with the result that one female worker Smt. 
Poto being his sister - in - law came to his rescue, She was also however beaten 
and this, on her cry for rescue, led to the gathering of thc workers who were 
all Kole by caste . A false charge was made against them that the General 
Manager , Shri Parashar Singh was beaten by them with chappals and shoes 
and they were wrongfully suspended and later dismissed without making proper 
inquiry . 


5 . The case on behalf of the management is that on the day of the incident, 
i . e . , on 11th January , 1958 at about 1 - 30 P . M . some four men belonging to Kole 
community were found working in an attempt to extract ore within the area 
of Chargaon Minę after removing the boundary pillars. On receipt of the 
report , the General Manager , Shri Parashar Singh soon rushed to the scene 
along with the Mine Manager , Shri Dayalal Joshi and both of them objected to 
and remonstrated against the activities of the said four persons. These persons 
however turned aggressive and began abusing them in an insulting and offensive 
manner . They at the same time gave a loud alarm and cried out to thcir fellow 
workers to join , with the result that all the 95 Kole workmen employed in the 
Chargaon Mine rushed to the scene with shoes, chappals and sticks in their hands 
and surrounded Shri Parashar Singh with the intention of assaulting him . Had 
not the victim then been promptly rescued by Shri Dayalal Joshi and other 
employees , the events would have led to grave consequences . On his rescue 
Shri Parashar Singh along with Shri Dayalal moved to a little distance away 
but the said rioters again advanced towards Shri Parashar Singh and assaulted 
him with the result that those who intervencd for his rescue received some minor 
injuries. It was then that these workers left but while leaving again threatened 
Shri Parashar Singh and Shri Dayalal with dire consequences. A complaint 
was soon thereafter lodged to the Police against all the workmen including the 
aforesaid four outsiders who took part in the assault and rioting and the proceed 
ing against them is now pending in the Criminal Court. It is not true that the 
management has acted with any ulterior motive by taking revenge on all the 
Kole caste workers and it was because of the misconduct committed by them 
that the action was taken against them under the standing orders . They were 
also suspended from work for three days and served with a charge - sheet to show 
cause why they should not be dismissed for misconduct in assaulting and rioting 
against their superiors. The reply given by them was considered to be evasive 
and unsatisfactory and after full and proper inquiry they were dismissed from 
service . In the circumstances the action of the management was justified and 
the concerned workmen are entitled to no relief. 


6 . It is an undisputed fact that all the concerned workmen belonging to the 
Kole community have been dismissed for the alleged incident on 11th January , 
1958 . They were suspended for three days under an order, dated 12th January , 
1958 and it was on the next day , i.e ., on 13th January , 1958 that they were all 
served with a stereotyped charge - sheet alleging that they all collectively during 
working hours in Chargaon Mines on 11th January , 1958 assaulted the General 
Manager , Shri Parashar Singh and abused him as well as beat him with chappals , 
shoes and sticks. It is an undisputed fact that the workers submitted their 
replies to the charge - sheet served on them but without making any further 
Inquiry under an order , dated 15th January , 1958 they were all dismissed from 


atisorder 
der the station 


712 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21, 1959 / PHALCUNA 30 , 1880 PART II 

- = = - - 
service . The reason assigned in the order is that the reply given by the con . 
cerned workmen was found unsatisfactory as not being in conformity with true 
state of things . It is obvious from the dismissal order that the management 
arrived at its own conclusion , as to what according to it the true state of things 
was , without making any further inquiry into the charge - shcet served on the 
concerned workmen or without affording them an opportunity to make their 
defence. Even the employers representative at the time of the hearing conceded 
that it is not their case that all the workers who were charge- sheeted assaulted 
or beat the Gencral Manager and that all of them could not be said to have taken 
part to the same extent. He however argued that each person ought to show 
that he took no part in actual assault or beating. In the first place it is up to 
the management to establish that on proper inquiry they had enough material 
to come to the conclusion that the workers concerned were guilty of the charge 
levelled against them and it is not that simply because the management was 
out with any charge of misconduct against them they should have proved their 
innocence . Even otherwise the management has given no such opportunity to 
any of the workers by holding an inquiry and on an assumption that the replies 
given by them were unsatisfactory as not being in conformity with the true 
state of things, it passed the order dismissing all of them from service . The action 
is alleged to have been taken under the standing orders and the standing order 
Nos , 29 , 30 and 31 relate to disciplinary action for misconduct. The standing 
order No. 29 enumeratcs acts or omissions amounting to misconduct and the 
clause ( h ) thereof refers to riotous or disorderly behaviour on the mine or 
any act of subversive discipline. The standing order No. 30 states in clear terms 
that no order of dismissal on the ground of misconduct shall be made unless 
the workman is informed in writing of the alleged misconduct and is given 
an opportunity to cipuin the circumstances alleged against him . The standing 
Order No . 31 inter uieu suales that in zwarding punishment the Manager shull 
take into account the gravity of tlie misconduct , the previous service , if any , 
of the workman and any other cxtenuating or aggravating circumstances that 
may exist. No such procedure was followed and a large number of workers 
irrespective of the length of their se . vice or their previous record were dis 
missed en masse on a common stereotyped charge. Not only no inquiry was 
held as contemplated under the standing orders but even the ordinary principles 
of natural justice were not complicd with . Without allowing any opportunity 
to the wokers to make their defence, they were all dismissed on an assumption 
that what they stated in their reply to the charge - sheet was uptrue and the 
charge levelled against them by the management was true. In the replies which 
the workers filed, they had not only denied the charge but they even described 
what according to them was the correct picture of the incident that took place 
on 11th January , 1958 vide the annexures G - 1 , G - 2 and G - 3 , dated 14th January , 
1958 to the employers written statement. The inquiry was thus on the fact 
of it called for but no inquiry was made and just on the next day the manage 
ment hastened with the dismissal orders . 


7. It may be noted that up to this stage there was not the slightest admission 
or suggestion on the part of the workers that they had committed the misconduct 
with which they were charged and they were subsequently made to give the 
apologies tendered by them in the circumstances I will presently refer to. It 
was when the Conciliation Officer intervened in the matter that there was some 
talk regarding the apology by the workmen but even at that stage none of the 
workers tendered any apology though advised by the Conciliation Officer as it 
can be seen from the management s letter, dated 29th January , 1958 ( annexurc 
I) addressed to the R . L . C . ( C ) . It is true that sometime thereafter 55 workers 
tendered apologies as per annexures J and K where they are made to admit 
the misconduct and express regret but obviously they have done so under the 
inducement of getting back their cmployment. Any such act on their part can 
not prejudice the remaining workmen who have declined to apologise and against 
whom it is for the management to establish that they have rcally committed 
the misconduct and are liable to be dismissed from service . Any such apologies 
given by some of the workers in the circumstances of the case in order to get 
themselves re - employed cannot be a substitute of a regular inquiry which was 
required to be made under the standing orders . 


8 . There are two conflicting versions on both the sides . The management 
alleges that becausc their officers asked some of the outsiders not to extract ore 
from their mines , the workers belonging to their community gathered in a large 
number and assaulted and beat the General Manager . The workers version on 


= 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21, 1959 / PIJALGUNA 80 , 1880 713 
- - - - - - 

- - - - - - SS 
the other hand is that those outsiders were the coolics doing the work of boundary 
demarcaţign and it was because one of these persons was beaten and abused 
by the General Manager and the Mine Manager that one female workçr related 
to him came to his rescue and when she was also beaten the other workers of 
the community turned up for help . The workers denied to have committed any 
act of assault or beating and their case was that it was out of revenge on the 
persons belonging to Koal community that they were all dismissed from service . 
Naturally therefore it was absolutely unjust on the part of the management to 
assume that their story was true and what the workers alleged was untrue with 
out making any inquiry . As a matter of fact if the management s story is true , 
then the only nutural course for the Gencral Manager and the Mine s Manager 
who are alleged to have gone on the spot on a report that some outsiders were 
unauthorisedly extracting ore from the mine, was to inform the Police and to 
take proper legal action . The incident had nothing to do with the normal work 
ing of the Minc nor would there be any occasion for the concerned workmen 
to rush up to the spot except under some such circumstances as alleged by them . 


9 . The Gencral Manager , Shri Parashar Singh now in his deposition Ex . MW - 1 
alleges that in the incident which took place on 11th January, 1958 , out of the 
many , 16 took a prominent part as per list given by him . The list consists of 
12 workers in the Mine and 4 outsiders who according to him started the quarrel 
because they were asked not to extract ore as they were unauthorisedly doing 
in the minc. He goes to the extent of saying that the employers are not prc 
pared to reinstate these 12 workmen inasmuch as the said 4 outsiders are closely 
related to them and the said outsiders at the time of the incident gave him a 
threat that on the next occasion he would not go free and be killed . It has 
never before been the case of the management cither in the complaint to the 
Police or in the written stotement now Aled that any of the workers or that these 
12 workers took a prominent part in the incident which took place on 11th 
January , 1958 . No inquiry has been marle on any such basis and in fact giving 
a complete go -byc to the inqui y contemplated under the standing orders, all 
the Viorkers concerned have been dismissart because according to the General 
Manager tlie statements, which they inade in reply to the charge - sheet were 
untrut . In the written statume-nt no such threat of killing has been specifically 
referred to and it is there vagucly alleged in paragraph 6 that Shri Parashar Singh 
and Shri Dayalal were threatened with dire consequences. In my opinion the 
General Manager who is alleged to be the so - called - victim of the incident cannot 
be considered an independent witnes and his testimony has to be judged with 
great caution , 


10 . The cmployers representative relied on the case of Turner, Hoare and 
Company Limited and its workmen , Bombay Government Gazette, Part I - L , 
August 9 , 1951, page 4043 at p . 4044 referred to at pages 202 and 203 of the Com 
panion Volume to Digest of Labour Law Cases by V . B . Kher but there the facts 
were entirely different. It was because of particular facts and circumstances 
of the case that the Tribunal held that the omission on the part of the Company 
to give the concerned workman an opportunity to explain the misconduct alleged 
against him has not so seriously prcjudiced him as to call for interference with 
his dismissal. In the present case the action of the management is entirely 
one - sided and with no justification the story alleged by the workers in reply 
to the charge-sheet served on them has been discarded without holding any 
inquiry and giving them an opportunity to make their defence . The action on 
the part of the management being in - ustainable , the workers concerned are 
entitled to the normal remedy of reinstatement with full back wages and I have 
not been satisfied as to why they should be denied the same simply because 
the Manager in the course of the hearing has come forward with the new story 
that some of the workers took a prominent part and that they are related to 
the four outsiders who gave him the thrcat of killing . If really any such threat 
was given so as to endanger the safety of his life, in all probability the General 
Manager would have inimediately reported the matter to the Police and taken 
steps to take security of food behaviour as permissible under law Nothing 
of the kind has been done by him and it is only to defcat the workers claim 
of reinstatement that the new story has been adversed in this reference at the 
fag end of its hearing . 


11 . I, thus, direct that the remaining 39 persons who have not been taken 
back because they declined to tender any apology should be reinstated on their 
original posts with full back wages and these are the workers at serial Nos . 1 , 2 , 


714 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21 , 1959 /PHALGUNA 30 , 1880 


[Part II 


3 , 4, 5 , 6 , 8 , 9, 10 , 11. 12 , 16 , 17 , 18 , 19 , 20 , 21, 22, 23 , 24 , 25 , 26 , 27, 34, 37 , 45 , 46 , 
47 , 48 , 51, 52 , 53 , 57, 58 , 71, 72, 73, 74 and 77 in the list attached to the schedule 
annexed to the Government Order of reference . 

P . D . VYAS, 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 

Nagpur. 
The 10th March , 1959. 

[No. LRII / 11 ( 17 ) / 58 .) 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 11th March 1959 
S . O . 638 . — Whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Gaslitand Colliery of the 
New Manbhoom Coal Company Limited and their workmen in respect of the 
matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 


SCIIEDULE 
Whether the dismissal of Shri Sirajuddin Miah , Haulage Engine Khalasi of 
Gaslitand Colliery, was justified ? Whcthcr he is entitled to any relief and if so , 
to what relief ? 

No. LRII2 ( 115 ) 58. 


New Delhi, the 14th March 1959 


S . O . 639 , - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Nowrozabad Colliery of 
M / s . Associated Cement Co . Ltd . and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 1A and clalise (d ) 
of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , 
the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with 
Shri F . Jeejeebhoy, Chairman , Labour Appellate Tribunal, as the Presiding Officer , 
with headquarters at Bombay , and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
said Industrial Tribunal , 


THE SCHEDULE 


( I ) Whether the mutual agreement dated the 25th July 1957 between the 

management of the Nowrozabad Colliery and their workmen 
represented by the Nowrozabad Colliery Mazdoor Sangh , P . O . Nowroz 
abad should be treated as legally valid agreement and whether it is 

still binding on the parties. 
( II ) What should be the standard of " loading" of a tub - -whether upto the 

" water level" at the coal face or upto thc water level on the surface . 
( III ) Whether a loaded tub should be measured at the coal face and not on 

the surface . If so , whether the deductions made from the earnings, 
the miners as a result of shortage found on the surface be refunded 
to the miners, and if so , from what date . 


Syc . (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21, 1959 / PHALGUNA 80 , 1880 


715 


- - 


- 


( IV ) Whether the drilling of shot holes , stemming of shot holes, water bailing . 

shot- ſiring, dragging of cables , etc. form part of the normal duties of 
a miner . If not, what relief the miners are entitled to for having 

done these jobs and from what date ? 
( V ) Whether the miners should be paid extra wages for the manufacture of 

earthen pallots and if so , at what rate and from what date ? 
(VI) Whether the monthly paid staff are entitled to any acting allowance 

while employed in jobs of higher categories and responsibilities . If 

So , at what rate , 
(VII) Are the workers entitled to wages for the period from 30th July , 1958 to 

12th August , 1958, and if so , to what extent ? 
( VIII ) Whether there were incremental scales of pay for monthly rated work , 

men before the publication of the award of the All India Industrial 
Tribunal (Colllery Disputes ) and if so , whether the workmen have 
been adversely affected by the introduction of new scales of pay with 
eflect from 1st January - 1957. If they have been adversely affected 

to what relief they are entitled ? 
(IX ) Whether the retirement of Saryashri Jahangir Khan , Charka . Ali 

Mohammad , Ram Prasad and Ramadhin was justified and whether 
they are entitled to any relief. 

[LRII- 1 ( 122) /58. ] 


s . O . 640 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
(dispute cxists betwcen the employers in relation to the Kotma Colliery of the 
Associated Cement Company Ltd . and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedulc hcreto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 
1947) , the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with 
Shri F . Jeejeebhoy , Chairman , Labour Appellate Tribunal, as the Presiding Officer , 
with headquarters at Bombay, and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
said Industrial Tribunal , 


THE SCHEDULE 


( i) What should be the standard of loading of a sub -water upto the 

" water level" at the coal face or upto the " water level" on the surface . 
vil Whether a loaded tub should be measured at the coal face and not on 

the surface. If so , whether the deductions made from the earnings, 
of the miners as a result of shortage found on the surface be refunded 

to the miners, , and if so, from what date . 
Gui) Whether the drilling of shot holes , stemming of shof holes, water bail 

ing, shot- firing, dragging of cables , etc . form part of the normal duties 
of a miner. If not, to what relief the miners are entitled for having 

done these jobs and from what date . 
( iv ) Whether there were incremental scales of pay for monthly rated workmen 

before the publication of the award of the All- India Industrial Tribunal 

( Colliery Disputes ) and if so whether the workmen were adversely 
affected by the introduction of new scales of pay w . e. f, 1st January 
1957. If they were adversely affected to what relief they are entitled to . 


[LRII -1 (123) / 58.] 
S . O . 641.-- . Whercas certain workmen of the Central Bank of India Limited 
represented by the U . P . Bank Employees Union (Kanpur Unit ) have demanded 
payment of conveyance allowance to the godown keepers in respect of their 
official visits to godowns to and from the Bank s premises under paragraph 548 
of the award of the All- India Industrial Tribunal ( Bank Disputes ) . Bombay . 
constituted by the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour No. S . R . O , 35 , dated the 5th January , 1952 , as modified by the decision 
of the Labour Appellate Tribunal in the manner referred to in section 3 of the 
Industrial Disputes ( Banking Companics ) Decision Act, 1955 (41 of 1955 ) : 


716 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21, 1959 /PHALGUNA 80 , 1880 


[PART IL 


And whereas the Central Government is of opinion that a difficulty or doubt 
has arison as to the interpretation of paragraph 548 of the said award in respect 
of the matter specificd in the schedule hereto annexed ; 

Now , therefore, in cxcrcise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of 
scction 6 of the Sald Act , the Central Government hereby refers the said matter 
for decision to the Industrial Tribunal, Nagpur, constituted as an Industrial 
Tribunal in this bohall by the notification of the Government of India in the 
- Ministry of Labour and Employment No. S . O , 636 dated 14th March , 1959 . 

SCHEDULE 
Whether having regard to the terms of appointment and the nature of duties 
expected of them and the provisions of paragraph 548 of the Award of the All 
India Industrial Tribunal ( Bank Disputes ) constituted by the notification of the 
Governinent of India in the Ministry of Labour No. S . R . O . 35 , dated the 5th 
January , 1952 , modilied as aforesaid , the godown keepers of the Central Bank of 
India Limited are entitled to claim any conveyance allowance in respect of their 
official visits to godowns to and from the premises of the Bank and , if so , whether 
şuch allowance should be paid even in cases where cycles are provided by the 
Bank for the purpose . 

(LR , II . 10 ( 77) / 58 . ] 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 11th March 1969 
S . O . 642. — In the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour 
and Employment S . O . 2289 published on page 2156 of the Gazette of India , Part II , 
Section 3 ( 11) dated the 1st November , 1958, the words " paragraph 663 of" may be 
deleted . 

[No. LRII /3 ( 30 ) / 58.] 
K . D . HAJELA , Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 12th March 1959 
S . O . 643 . - In pursuance of sub - section (5 ) of section 5 of the Coal Mines 
Labour Welfarc Fund Act, 1947 (32 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby 
publishes an estimate of receipts into and expenditure from the General Welfare 
Account of the Coal Mines Labour Housing and General Welfare Fund during 
the year 1958 - 59 together with a statement of the accounts and a report of the 
activities Ananced during the year 1957 - 58 from the General Welfare Account of 
the said Fund . 


REPORT 
1 . Act. The Coal Mines Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1947 , under which the 
organisation has been set up to formulate and implement schemes for the promo 
tion of welfare of labour employed in the Coal Mining Industry , was in force 
throughout India Including the Khasi and Jaintia Hill district of Assam but 
excluding the State of Jammu and Kashmir . 


2 . Rules. — During the year under revicw thc Coal Mines Labour Welfare Fund 
Rules , 1949 were amended so as to provide for : -- 
( a ) Extension of the Rules to the whole of India including the United Khasi 

Jaintia Hill district of Assam but excluding the State of Jammu and 

Kashmir ; 
( b ) The resignation of non official nominated member taking effect from 

the date of its acceptance or on the expiry of 30 days of the date 

of its receipt by the Chairman , whichever is earlier ; 
( c ) Revision of the standards of dispensary services to be provided by 

owners of collieries for the purpose of grant- in -aid from the Fund , 
( d ) Waival of any of the requirements of dispensary services specified in 

the prescribed standard ; 


SEC. 3 ( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21. 1959 / PHALGUNA 80 , 1880 


7 17 


( e ) Eligibility of inspection of dispensary services by medical licentiate 

having fifteen years experience as a medical officer - in - charge of a 

colliery dispensary : 
( 1) Presentation of chalan in duplicate, instead of in triplicate , in the 

treasury while depositing cess on coal and coke despatched other 

wise than by rail; 
( g ) Appointment of Secretary or the Joint Secretary to the Government 

of India , Ministry of Labour & Employment as Chairman of the Coal 

Mincs Labour Welfare Fund Advisory Committee ; 
( h ) Appointment of the Executive Engineer of the Coal Mines Welfare Fund 

as a member of the Housing Board in place of the Superintending 

Engineer, which post has since been abolished ; and 
( i) Appointment of the Vice-Chairman of the Coal Mines Labour Welfare 

Fund Advisory Committee as Chairman of the Madhya Pradesh 
Coalfield Sub - Committee . 


3. Advisory Committee. -- On the expiry of its three year term , the Coal Mines 
Labour Welfare Fund Advisory Committee was reconstituted under Section 8 
of the Coal Mines Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1947 in October , 1957. During the 
year under review the Committee met three times on the 7th May , 1957, the 24th 
September , 1957 and the 4th February , 1958. Besides the quarterly statements 
of Receipt and Expenditure, the revised estimates and the budget estimates of 
the Fund , the quarterly progress reports on the activities of the Organisation 
and the annual statements in forms A , B , C in respect of the housing account 
of the Fund , the Advisory Committee inter alia considered the following important 
subjects : 


( 1 ) Payment of grant for the water supply arrangements at Rama Krishna 

Mission T .B . Sanatorium , Ranchi. 
( 2 ) Payment of an annual grant of Rs. 10 ,000 for anti - V . D . campaign to 

Messrs Şingareni Collieries Company in the Andhra Pradesh Coal 

field , 
( 3 ) Proposals for increasing the grant for Sports in the Jharia Coalfield . 
(4 ) Continuance of the payment of the grant- in -aid to the Jharia and 

Asansol Mines Board of Health for running Maternity & Child 

Welfare Centres . 
(5 ) Payment of grant- in - aid to Jharia Mines Board of Health for running 

4 more Maternity & Child Welfare Centres . 
( 6 ) Reservation of five additional beds at the Pendra Road T .B . Sanato 

rium . 
(7 ) Water supply scheme for the Raniganj Coalfield . 
( 8 ) Report on V . D . Survey in Coalfields. 
( 9 ) Payment of grant- in - aid to the Hazaribagh Mines Board for running 

and maintaining Maternity & Child Welfare Centres . 
( 10 ) Proposals for provisions of radio sets to Primary Schools in the Andhra 

Pradesh Coalfield . 
(11) Implementation of the recommendations of the Director , Malaria Insti 

tute in India in regard to Anti-Malaria Operations in the Coalfields . 
( 12 ) Implementation of the New Housing Scheme for Coal Miners. 
( 13 ) Constitution of a Regional Board for the Madhya Pradesh Coal Mining 

агеа. 
( 14 ) Integration of the Chanda and the Rajasthan Coalfields with the nearest 

Coalfield Sub - Committee . 
( 15 ) Provision of improved type of chulas in miner s houses. 
( 16 ) Domiciliary treatment to colliery workers sullering from T . B . and 

payment of special grant- in - aid for special diet . 
( 17 ) Criteria for admitting T .B . patients in the T . B . clinics of the Organi 

sation and in the different sanatoria where the fund has reserved 

beds. 
( 18 ) A note on occupational diseases like solicosis and pneumoconlosis , etc ., 

of the miners in the coalfields. 


718 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21, 1959/ PHALGUNA 30, 1880 [PART II 


- 


- 


( 19 ) A proposal for supply of foot wear to coal miners . 
( 20 ) A proposal for construction of T .B . Hospital in the Bihar and West 

Bengal Coalfields. 
(21 ) Payment of an ad -hoc grant of Rs. 1 lac to the State Government of 

Bihar for the establishment of a vocational and a technical training 

centre for the benefit of the miners children . 
( 22 ) Proposal for electrification of Bhuli Township , 
( 23 ) Proposal for the construction of kutcha houses at collieries having 

short lives and remodelling , etc ., of existing miners houses. 
( 24 ) Estimates for sinking of wells in the Bihar and Ranigunj coalfields. 
( 25 ) Proposal to convert the Regional Hospital, Searsol into a T . B . Hospital. 
( 26 ) Question of payment of advances from out of the Coal Mines Labour 

Welfare Fund to Consumers Co - operatives and Credit Societies . 
( 27) Report of the Standing Committee on the working of the Multi- purpose 

Institutes of the Coal Mines Labour Welfare Organisation , 
( 28) Question of treating T . B . Isolation Hostel at Dishergarh belonging to 

Dishergarh Group T . B . Relief Society and other similar institutes 
and colliery hospitals providing required facilities as " Units " under 

the Domiciliary Treatment scheme of the Fund . 
( 29 ) Provision of primary education facilities in the coalfields. 
4. Sub . Committees. The Finance Sub - Committee and the Orissa Coalfield 
Sub - Committee were reconstituted on the expiry of their three years term by 
the Advisory Committee at its meeting held on the 4th February , 1958 . 


The Finance Sub -Committee met three times on the 3rd May , the 13th Septem 
ber , 1957 and the 21st January , 1958 to review quarterly statements of receipts 
and expenditure and to examine schemes involving expenditure from the Coal 
Mines Labour Welfare Fund . 


The following Coalfield Sub - Committees met on the dates as shown against 
each : 


1. Bihar Coalfield Sub - Committee — 18th April, 1957 and 9th December, 

1957 . 
2 . Hazaribagh Coalfield Sub - Committee — 18th April , 1957 and 9th December, 

1957. 
3. West Bengal Coalfeld Sub - Committee24th June, 1957, 20th August, 

1957 and 21st December , 1957 . 
4 . Orissa Coalfield Sub - Committee 17th June, 1957 , 13th August, 1957 and 

24th December, 1967 . 
5. Assam Coalfleld Sub - Committee 4th September , 1957 and 10th Decem 

ber, 1957 . 
6 . Andhra Pradesh Coalfleld Sub - Committee _ - 13th August, 1957 and 8th 

November , 1957. 
7. Madhya Pradesh Coalfeld Sub - Committee - 9th May , 1957, 30th August, 

1957 , 6th October , 1957 and 29th December , 1957 . 
8 . Vindhya Pradesh Coalfield Sub - Committee - 21st Aprli , 1967, 22nd August, 

1957 and 29th November , 1957 . 
5 . Co - ordination Committee . - - The Advisory Committee , at its meeting held on 
the 4th February , 1958 , reconstituted the Co -ordination Committee . 

6 . Standing Committee . - The Standing Committee constituted by the Advisory 
Committee to review the progress of the various schemes of the Fund met three 
times on the 1st June, 1957, the 23rd September , 1957 and the 20th January , 1958 
and made certain recommendations for effecting improvements in the activities 
of the Multi -purpose Institutes. The report of the Standing Committee was placed 
before the Advisory Committee at its meeting held on the 4th February , 1958 , 
when the Committee decided that the financial implications involved on the pro 
posals made by the Standing Committee be examined and placed before the next 
meeting of the Committee. 


6. Stamelino review the 


othe 23rd Septere 


SRC 3 (ti)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21, 1959/ PHALGUNA 30, 1880 


719 


Hospitals and other Medical Facilities 


1 . Central Hospital, Dhanbad . The hospital entered the seventh year of its 
existence giving specialised treatment to the colliery workers. The average daily 
number of in - patients treated in the hospital during the year was 250 against 
241 during the previous year . 


Construction of all buildings in connection with the scheme of expansion of 
the hospital, viz ., additional wards, three bungalows for junior doctors , flye 
quarters for Class III staff , twenty - four quarters for Class IV staff and extension 
to the nurses hostel was completed. The wards were opened on the 1st February , 
1958. The air - conditioning plants for operation theatre and labour room started 
functioning , Construction of the recreation and social workers rooms was also 
completed during the year. 


Statistics of patients treated in various departments of the hospital are given 
in the following table : - 

TABLE I 


( 1 ) Our Patient s Department 

(a ) New cases during the year under review 

Colliery 
Depri . 
Others 


14039 
5487 
2485 


22011 


Deptt. 


: 


: : 


: 


: : 


19309 
6981 
2838 


. 


29128 


TOTAL 
(b ) Old cases during the year under review 

Colliery 
Deptt . 
Others 

TOTAL . . . . 
( 2 ) Indoor Pationi s Department 

(a ) Now cases during the year under review 

Collicry . . . . . 
Deptt. 

. . . . . 
Others 

TOTAL 
( b ) Discharged during the year : 

Cured 
Rclieved . 
Otherwise 

, , , , 
Dead . . 


. 


4583 
449 
107 


. 


5199 


, 


2660 
1432 
615 
205 


TOTAI, 


. 


4910 


91. 343 


51139 
59366 


(c) Total parient days of the inpatient during 

the year udder revieno 
(3) Total patienı days in the O . P .D . 
. ( a ) During the year under review . 

(6 ) During the previous year . . 
( 1) Medical cascs during the year under review 

O . P . D . 
New 
Old 
Indoor . . . . . 

Total . . . . 


Dept. 


Colliery 

4165 
[0193 
1908 


2219 
4159 
318 


Oilers 

910 
1564 
65 


Tocal 
7294 
15916 
2291 


- - 


. 


16266 


6696 


2539 


2550I 


PART II 


720 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21, 1959 / PHALGUNA 90 , 1880 
= = 

- - - - = 
(5 ) Surgical cases Juring the year under review 
O . P . D . 

Colliery Deptt . Olhra , 
New 

5100 2038 

777 
Old 

4069 1324 

724 
Indoor 

1658 

35 

56 
TOTAL 

11627 3397 1557 
(1) No. of operaion done during the present year 
(11) No of plaster done during the present yeur 


Total 
7951 
6917 
1749 


16531 


1280 
1337 


New 


. 


(6 ) Maternity and Gynav case during the year under revicw 
O . P . D . 

. . . 
Old 

1154 
. . . . . . . 1340 
Indoor 
TOTAL , . 

. , 3108 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


364 
309 
42 


1823 
2243 
744 


614 


81 


71 ) 


491 


4810 


2029 


649 


260 


(7 ) Eye & E . N . T . Department. 

0 . P . D . 
New 
Old . 
Indoor . . 

TOTAL 


921 


409 


2938 
1496 


166 


255 


263 


3205 


1062 


430 


4697 


7 


166 


125 


986 
108 


X2 


21 


(8 ) Dental Department. 

O . P . D . 
New 

: 
Old , . 
Indoor 

Total . . . . . 777 
* Operation done during the year ( Eye and E . N . T . Deptt.) 

138 + 7 
Major . . . . : : 514 
(i ) Minor 


- 14 


187 


130 


1094 


(9 ) V . D . Department. 

O . P . D , 
New 

. . : 
Indoor 


IIO 


: 


Old 


: 


: 


: 


: 


: 


50 


: 


110 


. 


468 


1055 
2448 

152 
3655 


M 


TOTAL 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


, 


580 


1 26 


1518 


( 10 ) Anaesthetic Department. 
Total cases during the present year 

904 
(11) PathologicalInvestigation done 

During the present year . . . . . . . . . . 23 ,380 
(12 ) Radiological Department. 
No. of patients X -rayed 

5275 
No . of patients screened 
TOTAL . . . . 

. . . 6793 
(13 ) Rehabilitation Centre 

Indoor Outdoor Total 
No . of Patients treated 

550 936 
These figures include 80 patients who are being taught some other vocation . 
( 14) The Ambulance van carried 509 patients and covered 11 ,893 miles during the year under 

review ; 


386 


Sec . 9 (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21, 1959 / PHALGUNA SO , 1880 


721 


= 


- 


- 


- 


- 


( 15 ) SocialWorker utach the hospitalwrote 383 letiers on bchalf of the patients and helped 

them in loaning Ilindi , laking advantage of recreational facilities etc . 


2 . Central Hospital, Asansol.- - The hospital which started functioning in April, 
1955 was completing its third year of existence . All the sections of the hospital 
werc functioning . Almost all the posts sanctioned for the hospital were Alled 
up . Construction of two more bungalows for senior doctors was completed during 
the year . 

The hospital has a sanctioned bed strength of 165 . The average daily number 
of in - patients treated in the hospital during the year was 237. The scheme for 
expansion of the hospital from 165 beds to 250 remained under consideration . 

A rehabilitation centre , similar to the one at the Central Hospital, Dhanbad 
was also functioning. A children s section of the centre was opened in October , 
1957. The children enjoy games and take part in exercises under the supervision 
of the Gymnasium Instructor, 

Statistics in respect of patients treated in the various departments of the 
hospital are given in the table below : 


TABLE II 


(1 ) Out-patient Department 

(a ) New cases during the year uridor reviews 


Colliery 
Deptt. 


: 
. 


: 
. 


: 
. 


: 
. 


: 


: 


13 , 348 
3 , 143 

960 


Others 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


TOTAL 


. 


. 


17 , 451 


(b ) Old casos during the year under review : 

Colliery 
Deptt. . . . . . 
Others 


. 


23, 366 
3 , 338 

872 


TOTAL 


, 


, 


27 , 576 


( 2 ) Indoor -patients Department 

(a ) New cases during the year under review : 

Colliery . . . : 
Deptt . 

: 
. . . . . 

; 


. 
. 


4 , 910 
224 
154 


crs 


5 , 288 


. 


TOTAL . . . 
(b ) Discharged during the year under review : 

Cured 
Relieved 
Otherwise 
Dead 


3 ,236 
1 , 404 
323 
253 


SC 


TOTAL 


5 , 216 


347 


(s) Total patient days in the indoor department during the year under review - 86 ,437. 
(3) Total patient days in the out- patient department : ~ - 45,027 . 
(4 ) Medical cases during the year under review 
O . P . D . 

Colly. Deptt. 

Others 

Total 
New . . . . . . 

4630 1906 351 6887 
Old . . . . . . . 

9035 1869 

ILISI 
Indoor , . 

. . . 

1832 144 

50 
(5 ) Surgical cases during the year under review 
O . P . D . 

3062 288 

3509 
5895 

251 
Indoor . . . . . 1567 

1649 
(1) No . of operations done during the year . 898 
(1 ) No. of plaster donc during the year. 682 


2026 


Old 


6216 


[Part II 


Old 


. 


. 


. 


722 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21, 1959 /PHALGUNA 30 , 1880 

- - - 

- 

- - 
(6 ) Maternity and Gynaecological cases during the year under review 

O . P . D . 
New 

1731 

233 
952 

239 
Indoor 

. 1127 
( 7 ) Eye & E . N . T . Department . 
New . . . 

2042 

324 
Old 

1868 

373 
Indoor 
Operation done during the present Year ( Eye & E .N . T . Deptt .) 

Major . . . . . . . 
Minor 

38 I 


2028 
1271 
1217 


3889 
5709 
317 


308 


8 


238 


( 8 ) Dental Department 

O . P . D . 
New 
Old 
Indoor 


570 
IQO2 


793 
1397 


2 


(9 ) V . D . Department 

O . P . D . 
New 

. . . . 345 
Old . . . . . . . 1801 
Indoor 

77 
( 10 ) Anaestheric Department. 

Total cases during the year . . . 1422 
( 11 ) Pathological investigations donc during the year 15367 
( 12 ) Radiological Department 
No. of patients X - rayed 

5369 
No. of patients screened 

2025 
(13 ) Rehubilitation Centre 

Indoor Outdoor Total 
No. of patients treated . . 

354 468 822 
( 14 ) The ambulance van carried 959 patients and covered 16228 miles during the year under 

review . 
( 15 ) The Social Workers attached to the hospital wrote 747 letters on behalt 
of the patients and helped them in learning Hindi, taking advantage of 
recreational facilities , etc . 


3 . Regional Hospitals . The four Regional Hospitals - cum -Maternity and Child 
Welfare Centres at Katras and Tisra in the Jharia Coalfield and at Chora and 
Searsole in the Raniganj Coalfield entered the tenth year of their existence and 
continued to render useful service. The Regional Hospital at Jamai in the Pench 
Valley Coalfield was opened by the Union Deputy Labour Minister on the 28th 
April, 1957. The outdoor department of the hospital was only functioning at the 
beginning. The in -door department started functioning from November , 1957. 
Construction of the 18 bedded Regional Hospital at Dhanpuri in the Vindhya 
Pradesh Coalfield was completed and the out- door department was started during 
the last quarter . Statistics about the number of patients treated at the various 
Regional Hospitals during the year are given in the table below : 


TABLE ILI 


- 


Regional Hospitais 


Outdoor 
Patients 


Indoor 
Parients 


Total 


. 


806 


762 


Katras 
Tisra 
Searsole 
Chora . 
Jamai 


5079 
5142 
4402 
8560 
2091 


625 
1401 


5885 
$ 904 
5027 
9961 
2091 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Sec. $ (l!)] THE GAZETIE OF INDIA : MARCH 21, 1959 /PHALGUNA 30 , 1880 


723 . 


The ambulance van attached to the Regional Hospital, Katras carried 342 
patients covering a distance of 9 , 290 miles . The ambulance van which had been 
supplied to the Ballarpur Colliery in the Chanda Coalficld by the Fund was 
withdrawn and attached to the Regional Hospital, Jamai with effect from the 27th 
November , 1957 . The van was used to carry 25 patients covering a distance of 
569 miles . Supply of new ambulance vans, one for each of the Regional Hospitals 
at Tisra , Searsole, Chora and Jamai was awaited from the D .G . S . & D , with 
whom indents had already been placed . 


All the residences for the staff of the 30 bedded Regional Hospital at Naisarai 
in the Karanpura -Ramgarh Coalfield and of the 50 bedded hospital at Phurso in 
the Bokaro Coalfield were comploted and electrifed . Construction of the 
hospital building at Naisarai was in progress ; 60 per cent, roofs had been cast. 
Tenders for the other hospital building were being invited . The Chief Mining 
Engineer , Rallway Board had offered land for construction of a thirty bedded 
Regional Hospital at Kurasia in the Kerea Coalfield and the State Government 
had been asked to transfer the surface rights to the Fund . Estimates for con 
struction of the hospital were under preparation . 


4 . Maternity and Child Welfare Centres. Besides the four centres attached 
to the Regional Hospitals in the Jharia and Raniganj Coalfields, maternity and 
child welfare centres were also run by the Jharia and Asansol Mines Board of 
Health for which thc Fund has been paying an annual grant of Rs. 50 ,000 to each 
of the Boards. 


The maternity and child welfare services of the Jharia Mines Board of Health 
cater to about 160 collieries . In addition to the existing 28 active maternity 
and child welfare centres grouped under nine circles , one new centre at Katras 
in Katras circle and three new centres at Nirsa , Mugma and North Laikdih 
Collieries under one circle , viz ., Nirsa were started during the year . 


The centres are being run in the same line as advocated by the Indian Red 
Cross Society. Domiciliary midwifery service through trained dals, midwives 
and health visitors is also made available for registered cases of the centres . 
Free distribution of medicines, milk , fruits, germinated grame, etc ., are made 
available , 


The Lady Health Visitor of the Fund in the Orissa Coalfield paid home visits 
and gave ante -natal and post - natal advice to women in the collieries of Talcher 
and Sambalpur Coalfields. The number of visits paid by her are given below : 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- 


Ist visit 


Re- visit 


- - 


- - 


. 


. 


. 


- - - 
Ante -natal 
Infant 

Toddler · 
Confinement 
Friendly visit 


. 
· 
· 


. 
· 
· 


27 
38 
54 


· 


· 


· 


358 
552 

648 
Post- natal visit 
Family visit 


349 


293 


248 


The maternity and child welfare centre at Jatachappa in the Pench Valley 
Coalfeld started functioning during the year . The ten bed maternity block 
constructed as an adjunct to the Government hospital, Chanda at the cost of the 
Fund continued to function , The Fund is paying an annual grant- in -aid of 
Rs. 1, 000 for its maintenance . 


5 . Anti - T . B . Measures. - The two 12 bedded T. B . clinics , one at Katras in the 
Jharia Coalfield and the other at Searsole in the Raniganj Coalgeld continued 
to render useful service to colllery patients suffering from T . B , 


The total number of patients treated at the Katras T . B . Clinics was 100 (male 
52 and female 48 ) and that at the Searsole Clinic 287 (male 230 and female 57 ) . 


"724 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21, 1959 / PILALGUNA 80 , 1980 (Part II 

-- = - - = - = 
Beds were also reserved by the Fund in different recognised sanatoria for 
treatment of colliery patients . The following table shows the number of beds 
reserved and occupied as on the 31st March , 1958 : 

TABLE IV 


Name of Sanatoria 


No, of beds 
reserved 


No. of 
beds 
occupied 


1, R . K . Mission T . B . Sanatorium , Ranchi 
2 . Mahadevi Birla T . B , Sanatorium , Ranchi 
3 Govt. T . B . Sanatorium , Chhindwara ( M . P .) . 

Pendra Road Sanatorium , Korea ( M ) . 
5 Govt. T . B . Santorium , Nowgong ( V . P .) 
6 .. Christian Mission T . B . Sanatorium Johrat Assam 


TOTAL 
- 


- — 


— 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- -- 


- - - - 


Administrative approval has been accorded for the construction of two 100 
bedded T . B . Blocks to be attached to the Central Hospitals at Dhanbad and 
Asansol. The question of increasing the number of beds of the existing institu 
tions is under consideration . 


To give relief to colliery workers suffering from T .B , and undergoing treat 
nent at the T . B . Clinics of the Fund or admitted in the beds reserved at different 
sanatoria , a scheme for payment of subsistence allowance to the dependents of 
such colliery workers was sanctioned . The rate of allowance in each case will 
be limited to a maximum of Rs. 50 per month for a pcriod not exceeding six 
months. The allowance will be paid only in those cases where the patient 
happens to be the only earning member in the family and has no other means 
of income. The table given below will indicate the number of cases where such 
allowance was sanctioned during February and March , 1958 . 


TABLE V 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


-- 


- - - 


- 


- 


No. of 
patients for 
whom paid 


Rate of 
allow1e 


Pennod forwhich sunctioned 


Rs. 


so 


Six months or d . tc of discharge if it be earlier . 

Do . 


45 


Do . 


TMMom 


35 


uurunuo 


Do . 
3 months 21 days 
5 months 23 days 
5 months 6 days 
4 months 
3 months 8 days 
3 months 28 days 
Six months or date of discharge it earlier . 

- - - 


6 . Dispensaries. — The two dispensaries run by the Fund , one at the Bhuli 
township in the Jharia Coalficld and the other at Mugma in the Mugma Coalfield 
treated 27 , 805 and 9 ,722 cases respectively . In addition to the static dispensary 
at Mugma, the mobile medical unit sanctioned for the coalfield started function 
ing during the year . Setting up of the mobile medical units , one each for the 
Karanpura -Ramgarh and Pench Valley Coalfields was awaiting supply of vans 
from the Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals with whom indents had 
already been placed . 


SEÇ. 8 (ul)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :MARCH 21 , 1959 / PHALGUNA 80, 1880 


725 


7. Ayurvedic dispensaries. — A scheme for the establishment of eleven Ayur 
vedic dispensaries in different coalfields was sanctioned . Two dispensaries were 
opened in November , 1957 at Khas Jeenagora and Bokaro Collieries in accommo 
dation offered by the collicry owners . Another was started at Jagjiwan Nagar 
on the 10th December, 1957 and the fourth at Kothagudium on the 8th March , 
1958 . 


8 . X - ray facilities. The work done by the X - ray plants supplled to colliery 
hospitals by the Fund for facilitating diagnosis is given in the table below ! 


TABLE VI 


- 


--- - - - - 


Namcof colliery hospital 


No. of No. of 
fluorascopic Radiography 
investigations 


371 


52 


I. Giridih Collieries Hospital 
2 . Barakui Hospital in Pench Valley 
3 . Nowrozabad Collicry Hospital in V . P . 
4 . Kothagudium Collieries Hospital in Andhra Pradesh 
5 . Margherita Hospital in Assain 


384 


755 
1613 
269 
1309 
226 


, 


2426 


16 


Supply of threc more plants onc cach to the Jamadoba, Kustore and Bhowrah 
Collleries Hospital was awaiting supply of plants from Directorate General of 
Supplies with whom indents had alrcady been placed, 

9. Family Counselling . – The work done at the centres functioning at the 
medical institutions of the Fund is . given in the table below ! 


TABLE VII 


- - 


- 


- 


No. of cases 


Hospital 


No. of No. of 
Cases to 1 sterilisation 

whom 
contracep 
ţions sup 
plied free 


Old 


New 


144 


1 . Central Hospital, Dhanbad 
2 . Central Hospital, Asansol 
3 . Maternity & Child Welfare Centre , 
Katras . 
Do . 

Tisra 
Do . 

Searsolc 
Do. 

Chora 


إمام 


- 


324 


28 

13 
344 
45 


ΤοΤΑΙ. 


355 


6565 


100 


Family planning lectures and demonstrations were also given to mothers in 
all the 32 maternity and child welfare centres run by the Jharia Mines Board 
of Health . The number of women who attended for advice was 1, 340 ( 1st visit ) 
and 1, 761 ( re - visit ) . 

The field workers of the women s welfare section of the Organisation con 
tinued vide propaganda regarding the advantage of family planning among the 
women folk in thc Jharia , Mugma and Raniganj Coalfields. Thrce hundred and 
thirty -two kamins were given advice during the year . 

10. Artifcial Limbs. - Under the scheme of supplying artificial limbs to dis 
abled colliery workers at the expense of the Coal Mines Labour Welfare Fund , 
fifteen disabled miners were sent to the Military Artificial Limb Centre, Poona 
and provided with artificial limbs during the year . A total sum of Rs. 13 ,385 . 73 


726 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21 , 1959 /PHALGUNA 30, 1880 [Part II 


was spent during the year on this account. This includes expenditure on T . A .. 
etc ., to cover the journeys to Poona and back of the disabled miners including 
their escort, 

11. Leprosy Relief. — The Dhanbad and District Leprosy Relief Association 
maintains a hospital at Tetulmari and six clinics at different places . The Tetul 
mary Leprosy hospital consists of one block of 12 beds constructed at the cost 
of the Fund and is being utilised for treatment of infectious lepers from collie 
ries . In the block twelve old and fourteen new patients were treated during the 
year , Recurring grant is being paid by the Fund for treatment of colliery 
patients at the said block . Another ten - bedded ward which was also constructed 
by the Fund was expected to be utilised soon , 

The Asansol Mines Board of Health is also maintaining a Leprosy hospital 
at Asansol with four clinics . A 24 -bedded ward constructed by the Fund at the 
Asansol Leprosy Hospital is being utilised for treatment of colliery patients for 
which the Fund pays grant- in -aid . 

Financial assistance for maintenance of Dispensaries by Colliery Owners 

The Coal Mines Labour Welfare Fund pays annual grants - in - aid to such of 
the colliery owners as maintain dispensaries of the prescribed standard for the 
benefit of labour employed in their collieries. The amount of grant under the 
scheme is the amount of the cess at the rate of eight pies per ton recovered in 
respect of coal or coke despatched from the colliery less the proportionate cost 
of recovery or the amount spent on the maintenance of the dispensary , whichever 
is less . The following table indicates the position as on the 31st March , 1958 
of the applications received , inspections conducted and payments of the grant 
in - ald made, for the years 1950 — 1956 . 


TABLE VIII 


No, of 
applications 

received 


Year 


Amount paid 


No . of No, of 
dispens - dispens 
aries aries 

found 
be ins confor 
pected 

ming to 
standards 


yet 


No. of No . of 
dispens- dispens 
aries aries 
which inspected 
were 
found 
not con 
forming 
upto the 
standards 
primu 
fucie 


to 


Rs . 


1950 
1951 
1952 
1953 
1954 
1955 
1956 


Nil 
Nil 
Nil 
Nil 
Nil 


25 97 , 931/ 15 / 9 
38 1, 60 , 244 / 1 / 
33 1 ,69 , 069 / 2 / 
41 2 , 92 , 654/ 12 / 3 
39 2 ,48 , 269/ 14 / 
37 2 , 42 , 161. 23 np . 
31 2 , 13 ,531. 19 np . 


With a view to providing incentive to colliery owners to improve the existing 
dispensaries , a scheme of financial assistance was sanctioned . The financial assist 
ance under the scheme will consist of an interest free loan equal to the actual 
cost of construction of new buildings or for improvement in existing buildings 
for dispensaries , including purchase of equipments , subject to a maximum of 
16 times the annual grant- in -aid admissible under the former scheme. The loan 
is ropayable in not more than 32 annual instalments, Upto the 31st March , 1958 , 
two applications had been received , one from Messrs. Selected Satgram Collierles 
Limited for provision of services at one colliery and the other from Messrs . Bird 
& Co . Limited in respect of six collieries . 


Anti -malaria operation 
1. Area of operation . — Malaria Control Operations were continued in the 
Coalfields of Jharia and Hazaribagh , in Bihar, Raniganj in West Bengal, Pench 


S&C. 8 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :MARCH 21, 1959/ PHALGUNA 80, 1880 


727 


Valley and Korea in Madhya Pradesh , Chanda in Bombay, Margherita in Assam , 
Talcher and Sambalpur in Orissa and Singaroni Collieries in Andhra Pradesh . 
Number of collicries and adjoining villages controlled and approximate popula 
tion protected during the year are given in the following table : - - 

TABLE IX 


Coalfield 


No , of No , of 
collieries villages 
controlled controlled 


Approximate 
population 
protected 


383 


214 


Jharia 
Raniganj 
Hazaribagh 
Pench Valley 
Chanda 
Korea 
Margherita 
Talcher 
Sambalpur 
Hyderabad 


2 , 99 , 000 
2 ,66 ,000 
1 ,28 .000 
58,000 
32 , 000 
37 ,000 
22 ,000 
( 11,000 

8 ,000 
188 , 000 


TOTAL 


. 


. 


. 


699 


446 


19 ,69,odo 


Extension of malaria control operations in Vindhya Pradesh Coalfield through 
the agency of the State Government of Madhya Pradesh was pending with that 
Government. The State Government had agreed to take up the work on behalt 
of thc Fund , the Fund paying the non - recurring expenditure on equipment and 
the recurring expenditure on staff. 


2 . Aid under National Malaria Control Programme.- This year the following 
quantities of insecticides were received under National Malaria Contral 
Programme: 
D .D . T . 100 % 

. . . . . . . . . 30 ,000 lbs . 
D . D . T . 75 % 

.· 

.. 

. . . . . . . 48 , 400 lbs . 
B . H . C . 50 % . . . 

. . . . . . $ 9 ,360 lbs . 
Dieldrin 

. . . 2 , 300 lbs. 
3 . Anti - larval measures.. . With the advent of spring there is a spurt in the 
brceding of mosquitoes , chiefly culicine which though not transmitting malaria 
are a nuisance , to control culax mosquito nuisance in the non - spraying season 
therefore, antilaryal measures , chiefly application of malarial to the breeding 
grounds of mosquitous , were carried out in some Coalfields to a limited scale. 
Extension of the mcasures throughout the Coalfields as recommended by the 
Director , Malaria Institute of India remained under consideration , A proposal 
to utilise the savings from anti-malaria operations, as a result of free supply of 
Insecticides under the National Malaria Control Programme, in anti-mosquito 
and anti- larval measures and treatment of malaria cases encountered in the coal 
fields and on minor drainage works was approved . Special rounds of spraying 
were also given to such of those collieries that supplied labour to combat the 
culucine mosquito nuisance . 


4 . Drug prophylaxis - Ten thousand and eighty persons received paludrine 
tablets during the year both as a suppressive in microscopically positive cages 
and as a blanketing dose in new arrivals in the coalfields from outside the con 
trolled areas , 


5 . Study of parasataenia . To afford diagnostic facilities to colliery medical 
officers, blood slides of suspected fever cases were examined by the Malaria 
Officers of the Organisation and the results communicated to them . Such study 
of parasataemia was carried out in Jharia , Raniganj, Hazaribagh , Pench Valley , 
Chanda and Talchur Coalfields. Examination of a total of 8 ,656 blood slides a 
tever cases from different collieries revealed that only 283 were positive for 
malaria parasite. This small number of positive slides indicates a very low 
degree of transmission of malaria . 


M 


. 


21 , 


ir 


it ww ; 1 


[ Part II 


6 . Entomological Observation . Entomological observations on the density of 
anophylinc mosquitoes were carried out. Density in controlled areas continued 
to be very low . No infected mosquito was detected on dissection . 

7 . Malaria morbidity . — Malaria morbidity rate continued to be very low . The 
rate per thousand of population during the year 1957 is given in the following 
tablc : - - 


TABLE XID 


Coelfeld 


January 


Feb . March 


April 


May 


June 


July 


August Sept. 


Oct . 


Nor. 


Dec . Remarks 


. 
, 


2 .2 
1 2 


3 .8 
3. 3 


2 .7 
3 .5 


2 .3 
1 .8 


. 
. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 
. 


1 . 5 


1. 68 


- 


----- 


- 


4:19 


- 


Jharis . 
Ranigani . 
Hazaribagh . 
Pench Valley . 
Chanda 
Korea 
Margherita . 
Talcher . 
Sambalpur . 
Hyderabad . 


1 9 

.4 
1- 97 
1.71 
5 . 63 
3 . 45 
Nil 
45 
22 5 
0 . 57 


1. 8 
1. 8 
108 
1. 33 
4 . 22 
3 . 44 

Nil 
1- 7 
17 1 
0 .4 


2 . 9 

1. 7 
2 7 
1.84 
470 
4 : 14 
0 -09 

1. 
14 . 9 
0 .7 


2 .3 
16 
1 - 77 
1.35 
4 .63 
3 .94 
0 . 1 
1 4 
143 
0. 4 


2 .2 

2. 0 
3 : 47 
2 .03 
4 .75 
5 . 82 
0 . 7 
0 .8 
* 5 =4 
0 .7 


2 .9 

3 .6 
2 . 04 
2 .74 
7 41 
8 .77 
3. 8 
0 . 7 
* 1. 4 
0.6 


3 .3 

2. 40 
2 .07 
3 .53 
7 .60 
8. 16 
1.3 
03 
+ 1. 5 
0 .28 


- 


2 .3 

3 .7 
2 . 2 
2 .92 
5 .24 
5 .72 
0 .95 

0 6 
24.1 
0 . 5 


2 . 35 
4 .77 
5 .93 
0 .4 
II 

.8 
0 .4 


- 


. 


. 
. 


2•12 
5. 18 
7.99 
4:2 
0 . 1 
* 3 .9 
0 . 3 


. 
. 
. 
. 


3:0 
0 .4 
*60 
0 .7 


2:02 
4 .93 
5 .78 
0 06 
0 2 
19 . 2 
0. 5 


9 


. 


. 


@ locuding the malaria incidence figures from Rampur Collier) . 
Due to lock - out of Rampur Colliery , the Colliery hospital of Rampur Colliery was closed 203 10 malaria incidence report was availat le from the 
hospital. 


= 


- 


= 


... 


. 


* : M . . 


21. 


ALA . A 80, 1880 


( Part II 


SSRES 


8 . Annual Health Exhibition . — This section participated in the Annual Health 
Exhibition organised by the Jharia Mines Board of Health , Dhanbad and spon 
sored by the Coal Mines Welfare Fund , Lectures and demonstrations were held 
to educate the miners in malaria prevention and control, 


Miners Institutes 


For providing educational and recreational facilities to colliery workers and 
their dependents , miners institutes , each comprising a Centre for the welfare 
of women and children , an Adult Education Centre and a Children s Parks, are 
established in the various coalfields. For obvious reasons, these centres have 
to be located in suitable buildings in the vicinity of workers dwellings. Due to 
shortage of such buildings, the Organisation are erecting its own buildings at 
central places where suitable pieces of land are made available by colleries on 
reasonable terms. The difficulty in obtaining such pieces of land accounts for 
the slow progress in the establishment of miners institutcs . Out of 60 institute 
buildings, sanctioned for construction in various coalfields, forty - six had only 
been completed upto the end of the year, as shown in the following table : 


TABLE XIV 


No. 


No, completed with location 


Coalfield 


sanctioned 


No. under No. yet to 
constructiod be 

constructed 


Jharia 


. 


. 


. 


. 


13 


1 . Bhuli 
2 . Bhulanbararcc 
3 . Loyabad 
4 . Lodna 
5 . Malkera 
6 , Jumadoba 
7 . Tata Sljua 
8 . South Balliari Kendwadih 
9 . Kusunda -Nayadce 
10 . Mudidih 
11. Digwadih 


Mugma 


. 


I . Cbauch 


. 


Bokaro 


. 


1. Nirsa . , 
2 . Saltore 
1 . Bokaro No. I . 
2 . Bokaro No. II . 
3 . Kargali No. I . 
4 . Kargali No . II . 
5 . Swang 
6 . Jelangdih , . 


Ramgarh 


. 


Karan pura 
Ramgarh 


. 


: 


. 


5 


: 


I. Religora 
2 . Sirka 
3. Bhurkunda 


Giridih 


1 . Benladih 


. 


. 


Ranigani 


. 


1. Chinkauri , 
2 . Jaykay Nagar 
3 . Shankerpur 
4 . Methani 
5 . Sitalpur 
6 . Damoda 


Pench Vallca 


. 


. 


Newtonchiki 


. 


3 
4 


Korea 


: 
- 


. 


. 
- 


I . Damua 
2 . Chandametto , 
1 South Jhagrokhand 

2 . Kurasia 
- - 


- 


SES , ( 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; SARCII 21 1959 / PHILGUNI 30), 1880 

- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - = 


2T 
= 


= 


I 


Vindya Pradesh 


, 


. 


3 


1 . Nuwuzbal 
2 . Burhar 
3 . Birsingpur 
I . Ballarpur . 


. 


Chanda 
Assam 
Talcher 
Sambalpur 
Hyderabad 


, 


, 


I 


. 


Yellandu 


1 . Dubelbera 
I . Hingir- Rampur . 
1 . Birley Pit . , 
2 . Ramavaram 
3 . Collie line 
4 . Incline No. 3 
5 . Tandur No. I 
6 . Tandur No, II 
7 . Sasti 


Total 


60 


46 


3 


Il 


In spect of the 11 buildingy to be constructed , negotiations with collieries 
for gitt at lease on payment of nominal rent of suitable piece of land on reason 
able terms were in progress. Construction of the Institute building at Chanch 
Colllery in the Mugma Coalfield reached 3 feet above plinth . Work on the build 
ines at Newton Chickli Colliery in the Pench Valley Coalfeld and at Yellandu 
in Andhra Pradesh was nearing completion . 

Centres for the welfare of women and children 
1 . Centres and their location - - The women and children s welfare section 
which was started in April 1947 entered the eleventh year of its existence , Up 
to the end of last year 47 centres were functioning in the various Coalfelds. 
During the year under review five more centres started functioning . Pending 
construction of the miners institute buildings , the centres are located in accom 
modation temporarily made available by colliery owners . The table below 
indicates the position as on the 31st March , 1958 : — 

TABLE XV 

- - - - - - - 
No. funcrjoning with location No, yet to 
senctioned 

be started 


Cralfield 


senctioned 


4 


Jhatia 


. 


. 


. 


13 


1. Pacherdil ( Fund s Building ) 
2 . Bhulanbararve inimers Instituto 
3 . Bhuli 
4 . T # 11 Sijua 
5 . Kusunda -Novadce 
6 . 147720 103 
7 . Mukera 
8 . Lodua 
9 . Loyabad 
10 . South Balliari 

Kendwadih 
II . Digwadih 
12 . Mudidih 
13 , Kustore (Colly building) 
1, Nirsa 

(M . I.) 
2 . Salturc 


Mugma 


. 


. 


. . 


3 


Bukarı) 


1. Hokalo NO, I 
2 . Bukaro No. II 
3 . Kargali No. I 
4 . Kargali No . II 
5 . Swang 
6 . Jerånpdih 


PART JI 


732 
- - 


THE GA/ ELJE OB IVIA : VIRGIL 21, 1959 / PHALGUNA YO , 1880 
- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - 


- - 


PU - 


_ 


- 


_ 


- 


— 


Karanpura , Ramgarh 


, 


I 


Giridih 
Ranigan ) 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


4 


1. Religora 

M .I.) . 
2 . Sirka 
3 , Bhurkunda 
4 . Karanpura 

Dia-khund ( Colly . Build11. ) 
Bariadih 

(Miners Institute ) 
1. Chinkauri 
2 . Methani 
3 . Jaykaynagar 
4 . Sitalpur 
5 . Shankerpur 
6 . Damoda 
7 . Jambar Selected (Cully , building ) 
1 . Fkleliri 
• Dimu.2 

(Miners institute) 
1 . Chaldamutta 
1 . Suruh Thayrakhand 
2 . Kurusia 
1. Nowszabad (Micry Institute ) 
2 . Bir hi gpur 
3 . Burhur 
1, Balurpur 

(Colly , building ) 
1. Deulbera 

(Miners Institute) 


Pench Valley 


. 


. 


3 


Korea 


Vindhya Pradesh 


. 


. 


. 


. 


1 


Changa 
Talchor . 
Sambalpur . 
Assam 
Andhra Pradesh 


(Colly building) 
( Miners Institute ) 


. 


, 


9 


Baragolai 
1 . Birley Pit 
2 . Ramavaran 
3 . Coolic Line 
4 . Incline No. 3 
5 . Ladien - cum -Mat , & 

Child Welfare 

Centre . 
6 . Tandur No . I 
7 . Tardur No. 2 

s. S sti 
- - - - - - - - 


- 


1011 


A women s woltare contre wa , opened at Paluna Colliery in Rajasthan during 
the year. The centre had to be closed due to certain difficulties experienced by 
the staff . It was , therefore , decided to open adult education centre at the colliery 
instead of a women s welfare centre 


2 . Children s welfare The centres continued to provide elementary cducation 
to workers children up to Class II. The children attending the centres were 
given bath in the morning by the Aya of the centre. They were then dressed 
with the garments supplied free by the Organisation . Free supply of garments 
to children twice a year has been sanctioned by Government. In all the centres 
Balsabha was organised by the children themselves under the guidance of Sevikas 
cvery Saturday and discussions on topics of general interest to children were 
held . Healthy and interesting games continued to be organised in all the centres . 


There were 2 ,544 children on roll on the 31st March , 1958 in all the centres 
( excluding those in Andhra Pradesh ) . Six hundred ninety - five children were 
promoted to higher classes during the year . The number of children referred 
to higher schools was 192. 

3 . Milk and tiffin to children ..- - Supply of milk and timn to children atlending 
the centres at a cost of Rs. 185 non - rccurring per centre and Rs. 36 per child 
per annum recurring was introduced at all the centres Chura , gur, fruits and 
UNICEF milk powder were supplied to the children on ( very working day 
between 8 - 30 and 9 AM 


SLC. 3 (in ) THE GVETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21, 1959 / PHALGUNA 30 , 1880 733 

- - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - -- 

- - 
4 . Medical check -up of Health of children - Arrangments were made for 
medical examination of the children attending the centres, Weighing machines , 
health cards, multi - vitamin tablets were provided at all the centres for efficient 
implementation of the scheme. Medical Officers of the Fund and in places where 
there were no Fund s medical institutions, the medical officers vi Selected colliery 
hospitals were required to check - up the health of the children every quarter . 
Their reports and prescriptions were being followed up by the field worker of 
the centres concerned , who were to arrange for treatment according to prescrip 
tion cither" at the Fund s Medical Institutions or in the colliery hospitals . Multi 
vitainın tablets wrre distributed at the centres arcording to prescription . Height 
and weight of the children had to be taken by the Field Worker monthly . She 
had to record improvements in the Health Cards and also maintain the progress 
register . 


5 . Welfare of womcil. — Vocational tra ning to workers WIVUS and other feinala 
dependants continued to be given in all the centres . At each centre , one sewing 
machine and other materials required for handicrafts are provided . Knitting 
wages were also paid to kamins to encourage them to take up this vocation as 
a cottagr industry venture . 


There were 478 kamins on roll on thc 31st March , 1958 in all the centres 
( excluding those in Andhra Pradesh ) . Thc Kamins knitted quite a large nuniber 
* f Sweaters, Frocks, Blouses , Shirts, Pants , etc ., during the year. 


To encouragc the kamins to learn reading and writing literacy classes were 
hold in all the centres . Two hundred and sixty - flye kamins were attending the 
classes . A total of 194 kamins were niade literate during the year , bringing 
the total from the commencement of the drive in 1955 to 449 . 


6 . Dhowrah piszt. - - The Ficid Workers or Centres- in - charge were to dhowrahs 
daily and spent three hours . They spent at least five minutes in cach house and 
talked to the women in a friendly manner on various matters connected with 
the general welfare of the miners families and the improvement of their standard 
of living , such as education , cottage industrics, kitchen - gardening , poultry kecping , 
tvil effects of drinking and gumbeling , civic duties, the hygiene and economic 
methods of lood preservation , etc . They also assist the women folk in admission 
to hospitals as and when necessity arose Propaganda rogurding the advantage of 
family planning was carried on by the Field Workers of the Bihar and Bengal 
Coalfields Three hundred and thirty - two kamins were given advice during the 
year , 


7 Cultural actizaties - - For providing recreation to women attending the 
centro , rudios or gramophones with records have been provided at the centres . 
Magazines are also supplied 


Saraswati Puja , dramatic performances and picnic wire organised at many 
of the centres. A danre - drama Krishna Lecla was staged at the Patherdih 
Women s Welfare Centre and also at Jagjivan Nagar on the 6th and 7th May , 
1957 and it was highly appreciated The miners welfare work was celebrated 
at all the crntics from 26th January to 1st February , 1958 . Knitting and craft 
competition were held during the week . Sports were also organised and prizes 
were awarded to children and kamins according to thcir success . 


8 . Gardening . – To beautify the promises of the institutas, gardening was intro 
duced , Necessary implements like land -mover , garden scissors, spades , etc , were 
supplied 


Adult Education Centres 


1 contres and they locat201 .- - The working of the Adult Education Scheme 
stepped into the scventh year of its cxistcnce . Pending construction of miners 
institute buildings the rult ducation ( pnties are also run in temporary accom 
nindation offered by collici y owners . Upto the end of last year 50 centres had 
tecn functioning. Threr New centres started functioning during the year . The 


734. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21, 1959/ PHALGUNA 30, 1880 


[PART D 


following table will indicate the location of the varlous centres as on the 31st 
March , 1958 : 


TABLE XVI 


Coalfield 


No. 
sanctioned 


No . of functioning with location 


No , to be 
opened 


Phuria 


. 


. 


. 


13 


(Miners, Institute ) 


(Colliery building ) 
(Miners, Institute ) 


Mugma 
Bokaro 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


3 
7 


I, Bhuli 
2 . Tata - Sijua 
3. Malkera 
4 . Bhulan buraree 
5 . Lodna 
6 . Tamadoba 
7 . South Balliari 

Kenduadih 
8 . Kusunda Nayadih 
9 . Mudidih 

10 . Loyabad 
II . Digwaith 
12 , South Tisra 
13 . Kendwadih 
I. Niisa 
2 . Saltorc 
1 . Bokaro No. I 
2 . Bokaro No . II 
3 . Kargali No. 1 
4 . Kargall No . II 
5 . Swang 
6 . Jorangdili 
1 . Religuru 
2 . Sirku 
3 . Bhurkunda 
4 . West Bokaro 
5 . Sone Valley Hutar 
I . Beniadih 
I . Chinakuri 
2 . Methani 
3 . Jay -kay -nagar 
4 . Sitalpur 
5 . Shankarpur 
6 . Damoda 
7 . Jambad Selected 
1 . Deulberg 
2 . M . & S . M . Colliery 
I . Hinger Rampur 
I . Damua 
2 . Chandametta 
3 . Eklehra 
I. South Jagrakhand 
2 . Kutasia 


Karanpura -Ramgarh 


, 


Giridih 
Ranigant 


( Colliery building) 
(Miners Institute) 


. 


Talcher 
Sambalpur 
Pench Valley 


, 


. 


(Colliery building ) 
Miners Institute ) 
(Funds building) 
(Miners Institute ) 
(Miners Institute ) 


Korca 


( Colliery building ) 
(Miners Institute ) 


Vindhya Pradesh 


, 


I. Nowrazabad 
2 . Burhur 
3 . Birsingpur 
I. Ballarpur 


Chanda 


I 


Andhra Pradesh 


. 


I 


I , to 4 Io mincro institutes at Kothagudium . 
5 & 6 . In Miners institutes at Tandur . 
7 . Sasti (Miners Institute ) 


A894m 
Rajasthan . 

TOTAL 


. 


. 


I 
62 


53 


$ , 3 ( ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21, 1959 /PHALGUNA 90 , 1880 

1001735 


Efforts were being continued to find suitable accommodation for the remaining 
ninc centres. The centre at Rajasthan was expected to start functioning shortly . 

2 . Education to miners . The adult education instructor teaches the workers 
3 R s and acquaints them with labour laws. He also imparts them social educa 
tion so that they may be useful citizens. Through the media of radio and daily 
newspapers the workers are given information of current day affairs. Instruc 
tion is also imparted in the elementary principles of hygiene, nutritive value of 
ditrerent diets , temperance , etc . The workers attending the centres , elect their 
own leader who is paid an allowance of Rs. 25 p .m . from the Organisation , 

More than 8 ,300 workers had enrolled themselves at the centres . The average 
daily attendance was about 4 ,000 either for recrcation or for literacy purposes . 
Nine hundred and thirty -six adults were made literate during the year. The 
total number of adults made literate upto the end of the year was 5 ,487. 

The post literacy programme continued to be looked after . A small library 
containing about 400 books was being maintained at each centre , which was 
used by a fairly large number of persons. 

Lectures were arranged at all the centres. On an average Afty -six lectures 
were given at each centre . 

Study tours and excursions to places of interest were arranged . About hund . 
red workers from four centres visited Sindri Fertilizer Factory, Maithon Dam , 
Chittaranjan Locomotive and Bokaro Thermal Plant. 

3 . Cultural activities . During the year 55 musical concerts, 4 physical and 
yogic feats, 12 Birha programmes, 26 magic shows, 3 folk dances , 12 kawali pro 
grammes and 13 variety shows were held at different centres . Bhajan and Kirtan 
were weekly features at the centres . Twenty social, historical and mythological 
dramas were staged by the workers , Two football and two volley -ball tourna . 
ments were arranged during the year. Badminton , Table tennis and Carrom 
board were daily features at some of the centres and Tennicolt Ring, Ludo and 
Chess at all the centres. 

4 . Other activities . - - All national festivals , viz ., Republic Day , Independence 
Day and Gandhiji s Birth Day were celebrated in a befitting manner at all the 
contres - Rabindra Jayanti, Babu Kuwar Singh Day , Tulsi Jayanti, Krishna 
Jayanti. and Saraswati Puja were also celebrated at some of the centres . Miners 
Welfare Weck , Health Week and other campaigns and drives were also arranged . 

The 16 mm Alm projector in the Jharia Coalfield was used for exhibition of 
177 shows during the year . Provision of such film projectors in other coalflelds 
was awaiting supply of units from the Director -General of Supplies and Disposals 
with whom indents had already been placed . 

Other Educational and Recreational Activities 
1 . Primary Schools.- - Grants - in - aid continued to be paid to the three schools 
in Talcher , four in Andhra Pradesh and one cach in Assam , Darjeeling and Korea 
coalfields as detailed below : 
Talcher . . . 1. M . & S . M . Riy . Dara Collicry School : 235 O p . m . 
2 . Deulbera Colliery School 

282 0p. m . 
3 . Villicra Colliery School 

89 2 P .m . 


90 


Andhra Pradesh T . St. Mary s School 

900 p .m . 
2 . St. Andrew s Mission School 

p .m . 
3 . Hindi Pathsala 

p . m . 
4 . Tandur Kindergarten School 

90 Op. m . 
Assani 

. . , Lower Primary School at Chera - Punji , too o p .m . 
Darjeeling . , . Begrakote M . E . School 

100 

D . n . 
Қоса , Lahiri School 

, 

200 op. m . 
For the period from the 1st July , 1957 to the 28th February , 1958 , a sum of 
Rs. 1, 203 was sanctiuncd for payments to M . & S . M . Railway Colliery School, as 
additional grant A non - recurring grant of Rs. 500 was also sanctioned for pay 
ment to the Lahiri School for purchase of furniture and equipment. 

The question of continuance of the grants - in - aid to the aforesaid ten schools 
was considered by the Advisory Committee at its meeting held on the 4th 
February , 1958 and it was suggested that the grants might be continued upto 
the 31st March , 1959 , that the managements concerned might be informed that 


- 


736 

THE GAZETTE OP INDII ; VIRCH I , 1959 / PHALLUVA 30 ANO Piri II 
- = - = - - - - = = = - 

-- - - - - -- - - - -- - 
The Fund would not be responsible for the grant after that date and that they 
should approach the State Government concerned for necessary financial assist 
ince , 

In regard to the question of opening primary schools in the miners institutes 
and other hired buildings , it was approved by the Advisory Committee that in 
view of the fact that in the miners institutes instruction to children upto class II 
Standard was already being imparted , these might be converted into full- fledged 
primary schrols and that the matter might be taken up with the State Govern 
ments conce1 ! 10d who should be requested to provide staff and salary for those 
schools , l commodation and au pnient being made available at the institutes by 
the Fund . 

2 . Technical and Vocational Training Centre. In regard to the technical and 
vocational tiaining centre which had been proposer un he started at Bhuli as a 
joint enterprise of the State Government of Bihar and the Coal Mines Welfare 
Organisation , the State Government revised their proposal. They decided to 
start the Centre at Dhanbad in buildings to be constructed by them and requested 
The Coal Mincs Labour Welfare Organisation to pay an ad hoc grant of Rs. 1 lac 
for reservation of 50 per cent. of the seats for the dependants of coal miners 
and to allow them to start the centre temporarily at Bhuli pending construction 
of the permanent buildings at Dhanbad . În vicw of the fact that the institute 
would be located at Dhanbad which is an important mining area, it should 
necessarily attract miners dependants in large number . It was , therefore , con 
sidered that there should be no necessity for any special reservation upto 50 
per cent, of scats for miners dependants or for muking any ad hoc grant to 
the State Government. The State Government will, however , be allowed to 
utilise the buildings at Bhuli for temporary location of the institute on payment 
of rent. A representative of the Coal Mines Labour Welfarc Fund Advisory 
Committee will be a member of the Committec for selection of candidates for 
admission to the institute . 

3 . Training of Welfare Personnel. In the Second Five Year Plan a scheme 
for the training of 500 welfare personnel to be run by the Coal Mines Labour 
Welfare Organisation had been included . The scheme was sanctioned towards 
the end of the year . Detailed estimates were submitted for sanction , The 
training was to commence early in 1958 -59. 

The scheme envisages imparting of training to persons to enable them to 
run welfare and social education centres, to organisc community welfare to 
nianage small canteens, reading rooms and such other multi- purpose welfare 
programmes and activities . Both men and women will be trained . The period 
of training will be six months. The trainces will be drawn partly from the 
( entral and State Governments , and employers and workers associations and 
partly from thc Coal Mines Labcur Welfare Organisation . Arrangeme:its for 
board and lodging of the trainers will be made by the Organisation . The charges 
fixed for each trainee, will be made by the Organisation . The charges fixed for 
cach trainee are Rs. 50 p .m , for board and lodging and Rs. 200 for tuition fee . 

4 . Grant of Scholarship . - The scheme of grant of scholarship to sons and 
daughters of colliery employees at the rate of Rs. 20 p . m . per scholar for general 
# ducation and at Rs . 30 for technical education was introduced during the year. 
Thirty -nine scholarships for general education and six for technical education 
were awarded . 

5 . Games and Sports . The amounts sanctioned for organising games and sports 
for colliery workers in different coalfields during the year are given below : 

R : 
1. Tharia . . 

7 , 500 
2 , Kaniganj 

, 500 
3 . Giridih 

500 
1 . Ramgarh -Karanpura 

1 ,000 
5 . Bokaro 

1.800 
6 . Chanda 

2 ,000 
- Andhra Pra .leyle 

8 , 000 
8 . Assam 

500 
9 . Talche 

1 .000 
TO , Smabalpur 

1 ,000 


6 . Health Weeti. — Health weck / fortnight was oganised in the Jharia , Rani. 
Lanj, Hazaribagh and Andhra Pradesh coalfields. A grant of Rs 3 500 was made 
towards its observance in cach of the Jharia , Raniganj and Hazaribanlı coalfields 
and a sum of Rs. 6 ,000 was spent for organising it in Andhra Pradesh coalfields, 


SFC . 3 ( i)) THIE GWEITE OF INDIA : MARCH 21, 1959 / PIIALGUNI 30 , 1880 737 

= - = - - - 
7. Miners Welfare Week — The Miners Welfare Week was observed during 
January , 1958 in all the Fund s institutions in different coalfields . The total 
amount sanctioned for cxpenditure in the various coalfields for this WAS Rs. 9 , 000 
( Rupees Nine thousand only ) . 

8 . Exhibition of Films. The mobile cinema units in the Jhariu , Raniganj, 
Karanpura , Ramgarh and Pench Valley coalficlds gave a total of 627 shows during 
the year. In the Andhra Pradesh coalfields 9 films were shown through the film 
projecto s run by the Fund in that arca . The projectors having become oid , new 
ones were purchased towards the end of the year . 

Enforcernent Statutory Prorsuuns 
1 . Coal Mines Pithead Baths — The Coal Mines Pithead Bath Rules , 1946 con 
tinued to be administered by the Coal Mines Labour Welfare Organisation Under 
The Rules it is obligatory to pruvide pithead baths at every coal ruine whose 
monthly output during the previous calendar year exceeded 500 tons. Exemption 
from the provision of pithead baths is granted in case of those mines , the resunrres 
of which are not sufficient to enable them to make adequate supply of water 
and also to those which are likely to be exhausted within the next three years . 
The total number of cullicries where pithead baths hul been completar lhů 185 
and that of collieries where they were under construction was 89. 


2 . Creches in Coal Mines. The administration of the Mines Creche Rules , 
1946 continued to be the responsibility of this Organisation . Under the Rules 
it is obligatory for every colliery to provide a creche cxcept at those collieries 
whose productive capacity is likely to be exhausted within the next three years . 
Crches had been completed in a total of 336 millieries and they were under 
constructior in 99 collierles. Supply of dirt to inil Irin at the creches Was Iliade 
compulsory . Introduction of diet as a statutory obligation had improved matters . 
Attendance of children increased as also the popularity of the creches . 

3 . Prosecutions. For contravention of Coal Mines Pithead Bath Rules and 
Mincs Creche Rules 97 prosecutions were launched during the year . 

4 . Training of Creche Attendants. — The Mines Creche Rules provides for 
prescribing qualifications for creche attendants . In order to enable colliery owners 
to get trained stall, the Fund arranged for the training of creche attendants . 
Collieries where creche attendants are employed arc required to re - imburse to 
The Fund the cost of training charges at Rs. 500 per candidate . 411 candidates 
had been trained upto the 31st March , 1958 and 252 colliery companies had 
deposited training charges at Rs, 500 per candidate , 

5 . Maternity Bencfit. — The Mines Maternity Benefit Act and the Rules made 
thereunder are also administered by the Coal Mines Labour Welfare Organisa 
tion. During the year mines maternity benefit was paid in a total of 3 .159 cases, 

6 . Workmen s Compensation . The members of the Inspectorate of the Orga 
nisation have been following up cases of accidents in coal mines whirh Involve 
payment of compensation under the Workmen s Compensation Act. No legal 
authority to enforce quick settlement of such cases has , however , bron given . 
Out of a total of 4 ,870 cases reported , 3,637 cases were followed up during the 
vear , 3 , 593 were admitted and 144 were not admitted . Payment was made in 
3 , 105 cases . 


Maurice cream cheery day for 


Water Supply 


1 . Jharia Coalfield . - - The Damodar Water Supply Scheme of the Jharid Water 
Board was included under the National Water Supply and Sanitation Scheme 
( Rural) and no assistance was the efore granted to the Board out of the Coal 
Mines Labour Welfare Fund , as previously decided . 

The request of the Jharia Water Board for grant of a sum of Rs 1, 20 , 000 
for augmenting the Buard s existing water supply arrangement was dropped for 
the present. The question of payment of subsidy of Rs. 25 .000 from the Fund 
to the Board for the work of survey of water supply in the Jharia Coalfield was 
also dropped . 

2 . Hyderabad Coulfield . The scheme of water supply received from MeseTS . 
Singareni Collieries Limited was examined and found to have not been submitted 
in the form of a regular works estimate . The company was required to submit 
revised scheme, 


738 


THE GAZE I SE O IDI1 : MARCH 21 1959 , PIIALGI VA 30 , Inde [PART 1 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - = 
3 . Pench Valley Coalfields. A copy of the survey report of the water supply 
scheme for the Pench Valley Coalfield was received from the Public Health 
Engineer, Madhya Pradesh . The Government of Madhya Pradesh was requested 
to consider the question of implementing the scheme with the assistance they 
might get under the Water Supply and Sanitation Programme of the Government 
of India , Ministry of Health and the Planning Commission . 

The schemc prepared by Messrs. Shaw Wallace & Co. for augmenting water 
supply arrangement in the company s collicries was under examination , 

4 , Raniganj Coalfield , - A copy of the water supply scheme prepared by the 
Chief Engineer , Public Health Engincering Department, Government of West 
Bengal was received . The Advisory Committee considered the scheme at the 
meeting held on the 24th September , 1957 and decided that the State Govern 
ment of West Bengal might be requested in the first instance to sponsor the 
scheme. The State Government was requested to consider the desirability of 
implementing the scheme and enquired as to what amount the State Government 
would contribute towards the total cost of the scheme, 

5 . Vindhya Pradesh . The water supply scheme submitted by the collery 
in the Vindhya Pradesh Coalfields were considered by the State Government 
and found to be defective. They proposed that fresh comprehensive survey 
should be undertaken before preparing scheme. The Vindhya Pradesh Govern 
ment requested the Government of India to sanction grant of Rs. 10 , 000 for con 
ducting the survey . In reply , it was stated that the Public Health Engineering 
Department of Madhya Pradesh Government would be the appropriate authority 
for conducting the survey with such assistance as may be available from the 
Central Public Health Organisation and that the cost for conducting survey should 
be borne by the State Government of Madhya Pradesh . 

6. Giridih Coalfield .- Construction of 8 wells in the Giridih Coalfield by the 
Pund was completed . 

7 . Other Coalfields. -- The water supply Committee consisting of 4 members 
met on the 14th May, 1957 and 21st December , 1957 and examined the follow 
ing schemes of water supply . 
1. Water Supply Scheme of the West Chirimi Colliery . 
Du . 

Birsinghpur Collicry . 
Do. 

North Chirimiti Colliery . 
L ut dih Group of Colliery of M /s. Andrew Yulc & Co . Ltd . 
For Collieries at the Eastern side of Pench Valley belonging 

10 M /s . Amalgamated Coalfields Ltd . Parasia . 
Do . 

Joypur Colliery Assam . 

Dilly Colliery , Assam . 
Do . 

Newton Chikili Colliery , Parasia , 
Do . 

Bokaro , Swang and Jerangdih Colliery. 
Do . 

Tandur Colliery . 
Do. 

Sasti Colliery , 
Do , 

Birsinghpur, Colliery. 
The collicries were asked to furnish further details and the Coalfield Sub - - 
Committees were requested to furnish their recommendations on a few schemes . 

8 . Wells. - Estimates and plans in respect of wells to be constructed at various 
collieries in the Hazaribagh and Raniganj Coalfields were considered by the 
Finance Sub - Committee and the Advisory Committee at their meetings held on 
the 21st January , 1958 and the 4th February , 1958 respectively and approved . 
The recommendation of the Madhya Pradesh Coalfeld Sub - Committca in rcgard 
to sinking of wells were to be considered by the Water Supply Committee at the 
meeting to be held in May, 1958 . 

Other Amenities 
1 . Death Benefit . The scheme for grant of financial assistance from the Fund 
to the widows and school going children of colliery workers who meet afrath 
As a result of fatal accidents at the collierles at the following rates, was in opera 
tion during the year : 
( 1 ) A monthly allowance of Rs. 10 per month to the widow of the deceased 

worker for a period of two years . 
( 2 ) A scholarship of Rs. 5 per month to each of the children of the deceased 

worker attending school for a period of three years . 


Do. 
10. 


inimitvioNaag 


10. 


Ev 


; 


30 , 


- 


- 


- 


A total sum of Rs. 14 , 160 had been sanctioned for payment to 83 widows and 
8 children . 

2 . Co - operative Movement in the Coalfields. -- Among the social problems of 
the coal mining labour, indebtedness is one of the most outstanding. Considering 
the plight of the coal miners as a result of the activities of the usurious money . 
lenders , the co - operative movement in the coalfields, which was dormant, bad 
to be given fresh impetus. It was considered necessary that the Coal Mines 
Labur Welfare Organisation should take initiative in the matter and in collabo 
ration with the State Co -operative departments concerned get as many Consumers 
Co- operative and Credit Societies established as possible. 

Conferences of officers of the Bihar State Co -operative Department and the 
Fund and representative of colliery workers and employers were held at Dhanbad 
on the 1st November and the 16th December , 1957 to discuss the matter . Meet 
ings were also held with the Co - operative authorities of West Bengal. The 
Inspectorate of the Organisation were asked to enforce vigorous drive by contact 
ing collicry workers and employers and organising societies . 

The post of an Inspector in Co -operatives under the Fund was created to 
render necessary guidance in establishment and running of co -operatives . Three 
employees of the Fund were deputed for training in the 3 -week short course 
training in co - operatives of the Regional Training Institute, Barsul in West Bengal . 

The question of grant of advances from the Fund to thosc societies requiring 
financial assistance was under consideration , 

3 . Crafts Training . Two employees of the Organisation , one Field worker 
of the women s welfare section and an Adult Education Instructor were deputed 
to undergo training in Ambar Charkha. They completed the training. Arrange 
ments were being made to introduce the craft in two of the miners institutes . 

A scheme for introduction of basket making craft in some of the miners 
Institutes on an experimental basis was being prepared . The post of an Instructor 
in basket making was created for imparting training in the craft. 

Administration 
The following table indicates the sanctioned strength of the Organisation and 
number of posts Alled in and lying vacant as on the 31st March , 1958 : 

TABLE XVII 
- - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - 

- - - - 
Category of post 

Sanctioned Filled Vacant 


Class ! 
Class II 
Class III 
Class IV 


807 


898 
768 


91 


723 


Statement of Account of the General Welfare Pund for the year 1957 - 58. 


- - - 


Receipts 


Rs. 


Expenditure 


Rs. 


- 


. - 


. 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- - - 


- - 


- - - - - 


- - -- - 


- - - 


- 


- 


Opening blance on 1- 4 - 1957 


3 ,50 ,30 ,208 


Expenditure during the year 

1957 - 58 . . . 
Closing balance on 31 - 3- 58 . 


61.86, 250 
3 .10 .23, 525 


Receipt during the year 1957 - 58 . 


30 , 79 ,567 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


- - - - 


TOTAL 


. 


. 


3,81,09,775 


3 ,81, 09 , 775 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


- - - 


Estimates of Receipty into and Expenditure from the General Welfare Fund during the your 
1958 - 59 (original). 
Reccipts 

Expenditure 
Rs. 21 , 24 , 100 

Rş. 1,01,45 ,000 

(No. MII - 15 ( 13 ) 58. 


740 


I 


, E 21 . - 21 , dw , 

$ 0 , wu 15 ] } 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - 
New Delhi, the 21st March 1959 
S . O . 644 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 83 of the Mines Act, 
1952 ( 35 of 1952 ), the Centra ! Government hereby makes the Tullowing amendment 
to the notification of the Government of India , Ministry of Labour & Employment, 
S . O . 1 .377 , dated the 3rd July 1958 , namely : 

In the said notification , in Schedule I, under column 1, for The entry " Mosaboni 
mincs owned by M / s . Indian Copper Corporation Ltd ., PO Mosabon , District 
Singhbhum " , the following shall be substituted , namely , 
" Pathargora, Kondadiah , Mosaboni, Bodia , Surda, Lapso and Rajkharsawan 

mines owned by M / s Indian Copper Corporation Ltd ., P . O . Mosaboni 
Distt . Singhbhum " . 

[No. MIII - 5 (4 ) / 59 .I 
P . N . SHARMA, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 13th March 1959 
S . O . 643 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 14 of the Industrial 
Employment ( Standing Orders ) Act , 1946 ( 20 of 1946 ) , and in supersession of the 
late Department of Labour Notification No. LR . 11 ( 53 ), dated the 10th May , 1957, 
the Central Government hereby exempts the industrial establishments under the 
ownership or management of the port authority administering the port of 
Vizagapatam ( including the Dry Dock ) from all the provisions of the said Act 
subject to the following conditions, namely : 
( 1 ) to port authority shall publish or cause to be published consolidated 

rules relating to the matters set out in the Schedule to the said Act 
in a pamphlet form in the English language and the language or 

languages understood by the majority of the workmen ; 
( 2 ) before making any amendment to the said rules the port authority 

shall inform the workmen concerned by a notice on the notice board 
of the proposed amendment and shall consider any objection or 
suggestion that may be made thereto within twentyone days of such 

notice ; 
. ( 3 ) a copy of the pamphlet referred to in clause ( 1 ) above and a copy of 

cvery amendment thereto shall be supplied to each of the workmen 
concerned . 

[No, LR - 1/ 59 / 1 / 27 / 57 -1.) 


SO . 646 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 14 of the Industrial 
Employment ( Stunding Orders ) Act, 1946 ( 20 of 1946 ) , the Central Government 
hereby makes the following amendments in the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Labour No . S . R . O . 890 , dated the 8th May 1952 : 
for clause ( 2 ) the following clauses shall be substituted, namely : 
" ( 2 ) before making any amendment to the said rules the port authority 

shall inform the workmen concerned by a notice on the notice board 
of the proposed amendment and shall consider any objcction or 
suggestion that may be made thereto within twentyone days of such 

notice ; 
( 3 ) a copy of the pamphlet referred to in clause ( 1 ) above and a copy of 

every amendment thereto shall be supplied to each of the workmen 
concerned ." 

[No. LR - 1/ 59 / 1 / 27 /57 - 11. 1 


S . O . 617. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 14 of the Industrial 
Employment ( Standing Orders) Act, 1946 ( 20 of 1948 ) , the Central Government 
hereby makes the following amendments in the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Labour No. S .R . O . 892 , dated the 7th May 1932 : 
for clause ( 2 ) , the following clauscs shall be substituted , namely : 
- ( 2 ) before making any amendment to the said rules the port authority 

shall inform the workmen concerned by a notice on the notice board 


- 


- 


: - - 


3 ( ii)] 

A . - 21, 

na ww , - 41 
- - -- - - - - - - - = = = - - = 
of the proposed amendnient and shall consider any ohjtction or 
Suigkastloi that may be made there s Thin twenty -one days of suicli 

notice ; 
( 3 ) a copy of the pamphlet referred to in clause ( 1 ) above , and a copy of 

every mendment thereto shall be supplier to each of the workinen 
concerned . " 

[ No, LR - 1/ 50 / 1/ 27 / 57 - III. ] 


S . O . 648. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 14 of the Industrial 
Employment ( Standing Orders ) Act , 1946 ( 20 of 1946 ) , the Central Government 
hereby exempts the industrial cstablishments under the ownership or manage 
ment of the port authority administering the port of Kandla from all the pro 
visions of the said Act subject to the following conditions, namely : 
( 1 ) the port authority shall publish or causc to be published consolidated 

rules relating to the matters set out in the Schedule to thc said Act 
in a pamphlet form in the English language and the language or 

languages understood by the majority of the workmen ; 
( 2 ) before making any amendment to the said rules the port authority 

shall inform the workmen concerned by a notice on the notice board 
of the proposed amendment and shall consider any objection of 
suggestion that may be made thereto within twenty - one rlay s of such 

notice ; 
( 3 ) a copy of the pamphlet referred to in clause ( 1 ) above and a copy of 

cvery amendment thereto shall be supplied to each of the workmen 
concerned . 

(No. LR - 1/59 / 1 / 27 /57 - IV . ) 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 16th March 1959 
8 . 0 . 649 . - -Whereas an industrial dispute exists between the Bombay Dock 
Labour Board and their workmen , represented by the Transport and Dock Workers 
Union ; 

And whereas the Bombay Dock Labour Board and the Union have under sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 - A of the Industrial Disputes. Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947) 
referred the dispute to arbitration by an Arbitration Agreement have forwarded 
to the Central Government under sub -section ( 3 ) of the said section a copy of the 
sal Arbitration Agreement; 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of suh - sertion ( 3 ) of section 10 - A of the said Ach, 
the Central Government hereby publishes the said Arbitration Agreement. 


FORM C 

AGREEMENT 
( Under section 10 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947) 

BETWEEN 
The Bombay Dock Labour Board 


AND 


Works 


Stevedore Works registered under the provisions of Bombay Dock 
( Regulation of Employment ) Scheme, 1956 , 


Name of Parties 
Representing Employers.-- The Bombay Dock Labour Board . Bombay. 
Representing Workmen . — The Transport & Dock Workers Union , Bombay . 

It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following disputes to the 
arbitration of Shri F . Jeejeebhoy, presently President of the Labour Appellate : 
Tribunal, City Ice Bullding, Bazar Gate Street, Bombay . 


* 742 . THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21 , 1959 / PHALGUNA 80 , 1880 [PART II 

2S 
The matters in dispute are as follows : 
" ( 1 ) Whether the registered workers, both monthly and in pool, as well as 

the Staff should get 10 days sick leave with full pay and allowances 
in a year as against 7 days sick leave being granted to them at 

present ? 
( 2 ) Whether the registered workers working in the pool should get weekly 

off with pay ; and if so what should be the rate of payment for the 
samne and whether the payment in respect of the weekly off days 
should be exclusive of payment calculated under clause 31 of the 

Bombay Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1956 ? 
( 3 ) Whether the guaranteed minimum wages in accordance with clause 31 

of the Bombay Dock Workers ( Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 
1956 and holiday wages of the pool workers under clause 35 of the 
said Scheme should be calculated on the basis of their respective 

dally wage rates ? 
(i ) The workmen s union is the Transport and Dock Workers Union having thelr 
office at Nagindas Chambers Frere Road , Bombay - 1 . 

(il ) The total number of workmen employed in the undertaking affected is 5500 . 

( iii) The estimated number of workmen affected or likely to be affected by the 
dispute is 5500 . 

(Iv ) We further agree that the decision of the said Arbitrator shall be bgrilng 
on us. 

Dated the 26th day of February 1959 
Sd / 

Sd / 
Secretary. President 

Secretary . 
The Bombay Dock Labour Board , 

Transport & Dock Workers Union , 
Representing Employers. 

Representing the Workmen 
Witness 

Sd / 

Sd / 
I, F . Jeejeebhoy, hereby consent to act as sole Arbitrator in this matter , it 
Government so desires, 

Sd / - F . JEEJEE HOT . 
CC . Secretary , Ministry of Labour & Employment, Govt . of India etc, etc , 

(No. LR IV - 28 (49 ) / 58 .] 
A . L . HANDA, Under Secy . 


Sd / 


ERRATUM 
In Ministry of Labour and Employment Notification No . MI- 3 ( 2 ) /58, dated 
27th February , 1959 , published in the Gazette of India , Part II - Section 3 ( ii ) . 
dated 7th March , 1959 , as S .O . 526 , the following correction is to be made : - - 
At page 612 , last line of the Notification 

for " Central Government under clause ( e ) ( ii) by section 12 ( 1 ) ] " 
read " Central Government under clause ( e ) ( ii) of section 12 ( 1 ) 1" 
- - - - - - - - - - 

- - - 
MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 14th March 1959 
S . O . 650 . - It is hereby notifcd for general information that Shrimati Incunati 
Chimanlal, a member of the Central Board of Film Censors , retired under the 
proviso to sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 4 of the Cinematograph ( Censorship ) Rules , 1958 , 
with effect from the 5th March , 1959. 

[No F . 11 / 5 /59- FC . ] 


S . O , 651, - In cxercise of the power s ( unferrell by sub -rule ( ) of rule 4 of the 
· Cinematograph ( Censorship ) Rules, 1958 read with section 3 of the Cinematograph 
Act , 1952 ( 37 of 1952) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shrimati 
Poornima A . Pakvasu , as a member of the Central Board of Film Censors with 
immediate effect pice Shrimati Indumati Chimanlal retired , 

(NO , F . 11 / 5 / 59 -FC . ] 


SFC. (11 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 21, 1959 /PHALGUNA SO , 1880 


743 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 14th March 1959 
S . O . 652. — The Central Government hereby : 
( a ) directs, in pursuance of the provisions of the Order of the Government 

of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No . S . R . O . 
3805 , dated the 26th December , 1955 and in modification of the Crder 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Information and Broad 
casting No. S . O . 534 , dated the 28th February 1959 that the Advisory 
Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors at Bombay shall consist 

of 31 members with immediate effect ; and 
(b ) notifles for general information that Shrimati Poornima A , Pakvasa , a 

member of the Advisory Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors 
at Bombay shall cease to be a member of the said Advisory Panel with 
immediate effect on her appointment as a member of the Central 
Board of Film Censors . 

[No. 11 / 2 /57 - FC . ] 
D . R . KHANNA, Under Secy . 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVT. OF INDIA PRESS, 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1959 


