REGISTERED NO . D . 22% 


The Gazette 


of 


India 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No . 19) 


NEW DELHI, SATURDAY,MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


NOTICE 
The undermentioned Gazettes of India extraordinary were published upto the 3rd 
May, 1962: - - 


Issue 
No. 


No. and Date 


Issued by 


Subiect 


- - - - - - - - 


- 


- - - - - - - 


-- 


- 


- - - - - - - 


- 


- 


- - - - - - - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


182 SO 1205, dated 24th April, Ministry of Com - 
1962 . 

merce & Industry 


Application for renewal of re 

cognition and grant in res 
pect of forward contracts 
in groundnut oil . 


183 SO . 1206 , dated 24th April , 

1962. 


Election Commig - 

sion , India 


Appointment of A8818tant 

Returning Officer to assist 
the Returning Officer. 


Declaration to fill the vacancy 

in the Council of States. 


184 SO 1269 , dated 25th April, Ministry of Law 

1962 
185 So 1270 , dated 26th April, Election Commis 
1962 . 

810n , India 


Appointment of Assistant Rc 

turning Officer to a9818t the 
Returning Officer. 


186 SO 1271 , dated 27th April , 

1962 . 


Ministry of Infor 
mation & Broad 
casting 


Approval of films Specified 

therein . 


187 SO . 1272 , dated 28th April , 

1962, 


Ministry of Com - Requirements in respect of goods 
merce & Industry 

imported from abroad speci 
fied in column ( 2 ) of Part I 

of the Schedule . 
Ministry of Finance The Central Civil Services ( Re 

vised Pay ) fifth Amendment 
Rules , 1962, 


188 S 0 . 1273 , dated 28th April, 

1962 , 


189 SO 1274 , dated 28th April, 

1962 . 


Ministry of Com - 
merce & Industry 


Fixation of price for the various 

grades and qualities of rubber 
and latex of different con 
centrations 


(1485) 


1586 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 / VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


[Pakr II 


Issue 
No . 


No. and Date 


Issued by 


Subject 


190 S . O . 1275 - E $ S . COMM / Iron 

& Steel- AM (58 ), dated 28th 
April, 1962 , 


Ministry of Steel & 
Heavy Industries 


Notifying the amendments 

to the normal selling prices . 


Cabinet Secretariat 


191 S . O . 1276 , dated 28th April, 

1962. 


Amendment in the Government 
of India (Allocation of Busi 
ness ) Rules, 1961. 


192 S. O . 1277 , dated 1st May, 1962. Election Commis 

sior , India 


193 S . O . 1278 , dated 2nd May, 1962 


Ditto. 


Corrigendum in S . O . No. 975 , 

in the Gazette of India Extra 
ordinary , Part II Section 3 ( ii), 

dated the 2nd April, 1962. 
Resignation of Shri M , K . 

Krishnappa elected to that 
House from the Tumkur 
Parliamentary Constituency in 
the State of Mysore . 


S . O . 1279 , dated 2nd May, 1962 


Ditto . 


Appointment of dates with 
respect to the bye - electon to be 
held in the Tumkur Parlia 
mentary Constituency . 


S .O . 1280, dated 2nd May , 1962 . 


Ditto . 


Fixation of hours of polling for 

the election . 


194 S . O . 1366 , ESS , COMM / Iron Ministry of Steel & 

and Steel AM (61), dated 3rd Heavy Industrica 
May, 1962. 


Notifying the revised maximum 
normal sclling priccy of wire and 
wire products , 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
Indent to the Manager of Publications , Civil Lines , Delhi, Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Gazettes . 


PART II — Section 3 - Sub - section (ii ) 
Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern 

ment of India ( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central 
Authorities ( other than the Administration of Union Territories ) . 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 


New Delhi, the 2nd May 1962 


S . O . 1373 . - In pursuance of sub - rule ( 5 ) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules , 1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the name of the person shown 
in column 1 of the Schedule below who having been a contesting candidate for 
election to the House of the People from the constituency specified in the cor 
responding entry in column 2 thereol, at the election held in 1962 has, in accord 
ance with the decision given today by the Election Commission under sub - rule ( 4 ) 
of the said rule , failed to lodge any account of his election expenses and will 
accordingly become subject to the disqualification under clause ( c ) of section 7 of 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the expiration of two months from 
the date of the said decision , 


Sec. 8(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1587 


SCHEDULE 


Name of contesting candidate 


Name of constituency 


Shri Bhagirath , Village Gokula , 
C / O Şhri Banarast Lal, Cloth 
Merchant, Shamerganj, 
P . O . Ramsanehighat, 
Barabanki. 


Ramsanehighat 


[No. UP-HP /29/ 62( 12 )/ 36633.] 
New Delhi, the 3rd May 1962 
S . O . 1574 . — In pursuance of the provisions of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 86 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes 
a copy of the Election Petition No. 42 of 1962, presented to the Commission on the 
7th April. 1962, under section 81 of the said Act, by Shri Partap Singh Daulta , son 
of Shri Man Singh , village Chimni, Tahsil Jhajjar , District Rohtak , calling in ques 
tion the election to the House of the People from the Jhajjar constituency of that 
House of Shri Jagdev Singh son of Shri Prit Singh , village Barhana , Tahsil Jhajjar, 
District Rohtak . 
BEFORE THE ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA , NEW DELHI. 

Presented to me by Shri Pratap Singh Daulta whose 

signature has been obtained in the margin and attes 
Sa .1 - PRATAP SINGH DAULTA, ted as having been signed before me this the seventh 

day of April, One Thousand Nine Hundred and Sixty 
two , 


Signature attested . 
Sd. / - K , K . SETHI, 7 -4 -62 

Sd . / - K . K . Serir, 7- 4 -62. 
Under Secretary , 

Under Secretary , 
Election Commission , India . 

Election Commission , India . 
ELECTION PETITION No. 42 OF 1962 
IN THE MATTER OF THE REPRESENTATION OF THE PEOPLE ACT , 1951 

AND 
IN THE MATTER OF ELECTION TO THE HOUSE OF THE PEOPLE FROM 
JHAJJAR CONSTITUENCY . 

Partap Singh Daulta , son of Shri Man Singh , resident of village Chimni, Tehşli 
Jhajjar, District Rohtak - Petitioner . 

Versus 
1. Jagdev Singh , son of_ Shri Prit Singh , resident of village Barhana , Tehsil 
Jhajjar, District Rohtak . - Respondent No. 1 , 

2 . Ram Pat, son of Shri Lekh Ram Chamar , resident of village Ismaila , District 
Rohtak . — Respondent No . 2 . 

3 . V . N . Kaushik son of Shri G . R . Kaushik , resident of 118 , Than Singh Nagar , 
New Delhi- 5 - - Respondent No . 3 . 

4 . Jagan Nath , son of Shri Tehla Ram , resident of Delhi Gate, Reward, District 
Gurgaon .- - Respondent No . 4 , 

PETITION under Section 81 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951. 


Respectfully Showeth : 

1 . That the Notifcation No. S . O . 231 , dated 20th January 1962, the President of 
India called upon all Parliamentary Constituencies in the State of Punjab to elect 
members in accordance with the provisions of the Representation of the People 
Act , 1951 and of the rules and orders made thereunder. 


1588 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :MAY 12 , 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


[PART II 


2 . That by Notification No. $ .O . 233, dated January 20, 1982, the Election Com 
mission appointed , with respect to each of the above said elections 

(1) the 27th January 1962 , as the last date of making nomination : 


AND 


( L ) the 24th February 1962, as the date on which a poll shall , if necessary be 

taken , 


3 . That the petitioner and the respondents were , along with four other persons, 
duly nominated as candidate for election to the House of the People from the 
Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency . 


4 . That the result of the election to the House of the people from the Jhajjar 
Parliamentary Constituency was declared by the Returning Officer on the 27th 
February , 1962, and the petitioner and the respondents got the following number of 
votes respectively : 
Petitioner , 

. . 111005 
Respondent No. 1 

118667 
Respondent No. 2 

20665 
Respondent No. 3 

. . . 6929 
Respondent No. 4 

1 . 20433 


The respondent No . 1 was thus declared elected to the House of the People from 
the Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency , having secured the largest number of votes. 


5 . That there is a faction of Arya Samaj Leaders in the Hindi speaking area of 
Punjab comprising the following persons : 
(1) Jagdev Singh , Respondent No. 1, Vice President, Arya Prati Nidhi Sabha, 

Punjab . 
(11) Pandit Budh Dev, President, Arya Prati Nidhi Sabha, Punjab . 
( iii ) Professor Sher Singh , Member, Antring Sabha Arya Prati Nidhi Sabha, 

Punjab . 
(lv) Mahashe Bharat Singh , Assistant Secretary , Arya Prati Nidhi Sabha , 

Punjab 
( v ) Acharya Bhagwan Dev, Member, Antring Sabha Arya Prati Nidhi Sabha, 

Punjab . 
( vi) Pyare Lal, Bhajnik , Secretary Gurukul, Jhajjar. 
(vii) Badlu Ram , Ex -M .L . A ., Political Lieutenant of Professor Sher Singh . 


4 . That the above mentioned persons, were amongst the chilet organisers of the 
llegal Hindi agitation in the year 1957. The real object of this agitation was to 
promote feelings of enmity and hatred between the Sikhs and Hindus of Punjab 
on the ground of religion and language , and afterwards to exploit these feelings for 
the promotion of their prospects in the general election to be held in 1962 . That 
subsequently they actually exploited these feelings for the promotion of the elec 
tion prospects of respondent No. 1 . 


7 . That the above named persons had also organised a Vijay Divas (Victory 
Day ) on the 1st January 1958 in Chhotu Ram Park , Rohtak just after the termina 
tion of the Hindi agitation , and on and from that day the respondent No. 1 began to 
hold himself out as a prospective candidate for the election to the House of the 
People from the Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency . Acharya Bhagwan Dey while 
introducing respondent No. 1 to the audience held him out as prospective candidate 
for Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency to oppose the petitioner, The respondent 
No. 1 in his speech declared that he could defcat the petitioner with the help of the 
Arya Hindi Satagrahis if they work hard for three years to come. 


8 . That the respondent No . 1 and his agents , mentioned in Para 5 above con 
tinued to hold small and big meetings in the Jhajjar Parliamentary and other 
Punjab Assembly constituencies of the Hindi area of Punjab and in those meetings 
they systematically appealed to the electorate to vote for the respondent No. 1 and 
their other candidate on the ground of their religion and language . They also 
systematically used the religious symbol namely the " OM DHAWAJ” in all these 
meetings. 


SEC. 8( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1589 


In these meetings, the respondent No . 1 and his agents also made a systematic 
appeal to the electorate to refrain from voting for the petitioner, who was a sitting 
member of the House of the People from the Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency , 
on the grounds of his being an enemy of the Arya Samaj and Hindi language . One 
of these meetings was held in village Bahu Akbarpur District Rohtak on 4th Feb 
ruary 1958 . This meeting was organised and attended by the respondent No . 1 and 
his agents, supporters mentioned in paragraph 5 . In this meeting respondent No. 1 
and his supporters exhorted the audience to punish the petitioner along with Ch . 
Ranbir Singh then M . P . now a Minister of the Punjab State and Ch . Ram Singh 
IPS then DIG , Ambala Range and got all the three ex - communicated from rell 
gious and social Biradri of Haryana on the ground that petitioner along with Ch . 
Ranbir Singh and Ch . Ram Singh I. P . S . were enemies of Arya Samaj as they 
opposed Hindi agitation . 


Full particulars of the above said village Bahu Akbarpur meeting are given in 
Schedule " A " attached to this petition , 

9 . That on 30th April 1981 the persons mentioned in para 5 above organised a 
political convention in Daya Nand Math Rohtak , for the purpose of announcing 
openly their intention to participate in the coming general election of 1962. The 
formation of Haryana Lok Samiti was announced in this convention . The name 
" Haryana Lok Samiti" was meant to be a camouflage for the faction of the Arya 
Samaj organisation dominated by the persons named above. The propaganda and 
appeal disseminated from the platform of the so called Haryana Lok Samiti con 
tinued to be in the name of Arya Samaj ( A religious organisation ) and its flag the 
" OM DHWAJ” , Full particulars of this meeting are given in Schedule " A " . 


I 


10 . That the respondent No. 1 and his agents inaugurated their regular elec 
tion campaign in a big way , on the 2nd and 3rd December , 1961, at village Bohar 
by organising the fourth session of the Haryana Arya Maha Samelan . The 
leaflet calling this convention is attached herewith as Annexure " B " * , 


11 . That in their speeches made in the various sittings of this convention , the 
respondent No . 1 and his agents made a systematic appeal to the audience to 
vote for the respondent No. 1 and refrain from voting for the petitioner on the 
ground of religion and language, promoted feelings of enmity and hatred between 
the Sikhs and Hindus of Punjab , and also brought undue influence to bear on 
the electorate by inducing them to believe that any body not yoting for the 
respondent No. 1 and voting for the petitioner will become an object of divine 
displeasure and spiritual censure. A summary of the speeches made by the 
respondent No . 1 and his agents is given in Schedule " C " attached to this petition . 


12. That the respondent No. 1 and his agents mentioned in para 5 above, held 
Public Meetings in furtherance of the election prospects of the respondent No. 1 
at the following places in the Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency and in Rohtak 
Town on dates given against them in Column 2 : 


Place of Meeting 


Date 


1 . Beri 
2 . Barhana 
3 . Dighal 
4 . Akheri Madanpur 
5 . Sampla 
6 . Ladpur 
7. Majra Dubaldhan 
8 . Pakasma 
9 . Asaudha 
10 . Jhajjar 
11. Badli 
12 . Dulhera 
13. Sisana 
14 . Bahadurgarh 
15 . Rohtak 


10 - 12-61 
19 - 12 -61 

7 - 1 - 62 
10 - 1 -62 
12 - 1 -62 
16 - 1 -62 
19 - 1 -62 
28 - 1 - 62 

7 - 2 -62 
11 - 2 -62 
12 - 2 -62 
15 - 2 -62 
16 - 2 -62 
18 - 2 -62 
4 - 2 -67 


*Not printed . 


159 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :MAY 12 , 1962 / VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


[PART II 


In these meetings, the respondent No . 1 and his agents made a systematic appeal 
to the electorate to vote for the respondent No . 1 and refrain from yoting for 
the petitioner on the ground of his religion and language, promoted feelings 
of enmity and hatred between the Sikhs and Hindus of Punjab , depicting 
petitioner as an agent of Sikhs, brought undue influence to bear on the elec 
torate by inducing them to believe that any body not voting for the respondent 
No . 1 and voting for the petitioner will become an object of divine displeasure 
and spiritual censure . A summary of the speeches made by the respondent 
No. 1 and his agents at the various meetings are given in Schedule " D " 
attached to this petition . That these meetings were arranged by various Ved 
Parchar Mandals . One of the leaflets indicating this practice is Schedule " D " . 


13. That on and from 1st January, 1958, the day on which the respondent 
No. 1 with the election held on 24th February , 1962 , in prospect, held himself 
out as a prospective candidate the respondent No . 1 and his agents used and 
made appeals to the religious symbol namely OM DHWAJ ( the flag of the 
Arya Samaj bearing the word OM on it ). The full particulars of this corrupt 
practice are given in Schedule " E " attached to this petition . 

14 . That respondent No. 1 and his agents realising that their propaganda 
on religion and language could influence only the peasantry which was under 
Arya Samaj influence , he and his agents set up on a plan to get non - agricultur 
ist votes spoiled by inducing with the help of bribery three non -agriculturist 
candidates to contest the election . Non - agriculturist as a whole are a strong 
base of Congress in Hindi speaking area of punjab . 
( a ) On the eve of election Ram Pat respondent No . 2 was paid Rs. 2 , 000 

as bribery by respondent No. 1 in Daya Nand Math Rohtak on 
10th December, 1961 and promised three thousand more if he 

was to spoil near about 20 , 000 Harijan votes . 
( b ) Similarly V . N . Kaushik respondent No. 3 was paid by respondent 

No. 1 Rs. 5 ,000 in Daya Nand Math Rohtak on 6th December , 1961 
and promised two thousand more if he could spoil near about 

10 , 000 votes of the Backward Communities. 
( c ) The respondent No. 4 Jagan Nath was paid Rs. 5 , 000 in Daya Nand 

Math Rohtak by respondent No. 1 on 18th December , 1961, In 

order to induce him to contest and to spoil refugee votes . 
That in this way the respondent No. 1 committed corrupt practice which 
resulted into a loss of 48027 votes to the petitioner , Votes secured by rcs 
pondents No. 2 , 3 and 4 were Congress votes in Assembly Constituencies of 
Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency. The total number of votes secured by 
Congress in seven Assembly Constituencies is 158316 whereas secured in 
Parliament is 111005 . 

Consolidated result of seven Assembly Constituencies comprising Jhajjar 
Parliamentary Constituency (House of the People ) is Schedule " F " * 

15. That respondent No . 2 Mr. Ram Pat arranged to secure a Republican 
Party ticket which was founded by Doctor Ambedkar a Harijan leader . H . 
demanded votes from Harijan Chamars appealing them to vote for their own 
caste man i. e . Ram Pat respondent No . 2 . Whatever yotes he secured was the 
result of the corrupt practice 0 : appealing by the candidate to vote for him on 
the ground of his caste , 

16 . Respondent No . 3 made pure caste appeal by declaring himself a candi 
date of Backward Castes. Backward Communities have got some rights by 
their birth in services and other field of social development. In election mat 
ters however, law forbids candidates to appeal to vote for him on the ground 
of his caste or religion . 

17. ( a ) That Mr. Jagan Nath respondent No. 4 made approaches in the name 
of his " Punjabi Biradri" 1.e . appeal based upon raste considerations. 

(b ) That he exploited religious feelings of the voters of Jhajjar Parliamen 
tary Constituency in general and for women folk in particular . He declared 
that Ram Baba a saint of Rewari want to go in Parliament through him . 
Symbols of " RAM RAM " made of brass and other metals covered bis and his 
followers dress. They sang religious songs with a drummer through streets 
exhorting people to vote for Ram Baba for establishment of Dharam Raj in 
India , 


* Not printed . 


Sec . 8(li)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 12 , 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1591 


18 . That respondent No . 1 exploited caste feelings of Dhanak caste by get 
ting an appeal issued by onc Attar Singh Dhanak resident of Akheri Madan 
pur, who was a candidate with the samc symbol on Arya Samaj i. e . Haryana 
Lok Samiti candidate . Similarly respondent No. 1 exploited caste feelings of 
Balmikis by getting an appeal issued to this caste by one Ram Dhari Balmiki 
who was contesting Assembly seat from Meham Reserved Constituency . The 
leaflets are Annexures " C " and " D " . 

19 . That in the Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency there are about 6592 
votors , who are members of the Armed Forces of the Union who are entitled 
to vote by postal ballot within the meaning of Section 60 of the Representation 
of the People Act, 1951. Under Rule 23 of the Conduct of Elections Rule 1981, 
postal ballots were to be sent to all these electors. The Returning Omcer 
delayed the despatch of the postal papers to these electors with the effect that 
out of seven thousand ballot papers sent, only 2277 ballot papers were received 
back in time which included Civil Service Personnel while thousands were 
received after the 24th February , 1962 and were not counted . Out of the 1, 869 
valid ballots received back in time and counted , 989 ballots namely 52 . 9 per 
cent were in favour of the petitioner while the 47 . 1 per cent were in favour of 
all the remaining eight candidates . 

Delay in despatch of postal ballot papers , ineans non - compliance with the 
provisions of Section 60 of the Representation of the People Act , 1951, and of 
Rule 23 of the Conduct of the Election Rules , 1961. The result of the election , 
in so far as it concerns the respondent No. 1 and the petitioner , has been 
materially affected by the non - compliance of the provisions of Section 60 and 
Rule 23 by the Returning Officer of the Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency . 

20 . That the clection to the House of the People from Jhajjar Parliamentary 
Constituency is void on the following grounds : 
( a ) Corrupt practices as detailed in the various paragraphs and schedules 

of this petition have been committed by the respondent No. 1 and 

by other persons with the consent of the respondent No. 1 ; 
( b ) the result of the election , in so far as it concerns the respondent 

No . 1 has been materially affected by 
( 1) Corrupt practices committed in the interest of the respondent 

No. 1 by the agents of the respondent No. 1, and 
( li ) corrupt practices committed by respondents No . 2, 3 and 4 in the 

interest of respondent No. 1 , 
( iii ) non - compliance with the provisions of Section 60 of the Repre 

sentation of the People Act 1951, and Rule 23 of the Conduct of 

Election Rules, 1961, by the Returning Officer of the Constituency . 
21. That two thousand rupees have been deposited in the Government 
Treasury at Rohtak in favour of the Election Commission as security for the 
costs of this petition , A Treasury Receipt for the same is attached herewith as 
Annexure " I" " , 

It is, therefore, respectfully prayed that an Election Tribunal be constituted 
to try this petition , and after a trial the election of the respondent No. 1 to the 
House of the People from the Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency, be declared 
void , and all the respondents be disqualified from standing as a candidate in 
any future election . 
Dated : 6 - 4 -62 , 

PRATAP SINGH DAULTA , 
PLACE : Chandigarh , 

Petitioner . 
Verification . - - I, Pratap Singh Daulta , candidate for the election to the 
House of the People from the Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency , do hereby 
solemnly verify that the statements of fact made in paragraphs 1 to 11 and from 
13 to 18 and 21 above are true to my knowledge, the statements of fact made 
in paragraph 12 are true to my belief based on reports of meetings and speeches 
made to me by Satbir Singh Rana BA , son of Ch . Abhe Ram resident of 
Kundal, the statements of fact made in paragraph 19 are true to my knowledge 
derived from an examination of the relevant official records, and the submissions 
of law have been made as advised . 
Dated : 6 - 4 - 62 , 

PRATAP SINGA DAULTA , 
PLACE : Chandigarh . 

Petitioner . 


* Not printed. 


Iro2 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


[PAKT II 


SCHEDULE " A " 
Particulars about Bahu Akbarpur Meeting 
This meeting was held on 4th February , 1958 in village Bahu Akbarpur 
District Rohtak . In order to distinguish it from an ordinary political meeting 
It was advertised as " SARV KHAP PANCHAYAT" which literary means a social 
gathering of all the "Gots " residing in Hindi speaking area of the Punjab . This 
was to seek sanction for ex - communicating ( i ) D . I. G . Ram Singh ( ii ) petitioner 
and ( iii ) Ch . Ranbir Singh then M . P . 

Out of many who spoke notable were respondent No. 1 , all Arya Samaji 
leaders mentioned in para 5 . Ch . Dharam Singh Rathee then M . L . A ., Ch . Nanhu 
Ram then M . L . A . addressed the meeting. All made highly provocative speech 
against the petitioner . 

The Pandal as usual was covered with " OM Flag and Arya Samaj religious 
teachings printed on clothes. All persons who went in jail in Hindi Andolan 
of 1957 were special invitees . 

Relevant portion of the speech delivered by respondent No. 1 is given below : 
Speech was in Hindi. English translation is given below : 

" Arya Sajjano this was the village where Kairon Shahi helped by Daulta , 
M . P ., and Ranbir Singh , M . P ., committed henous crime against villagers . 
You remember so many persons were beaten , women folk Insulted 
The excuse was that Hindi Premi were Ilkely to attack Sikh constables 
escorting some leaders outside the district. If to rescue from police custody 
was an offence then it was not committed by all villagers. Any way we are 
to punish Kairon s agents . The mover of the resolution for cx - communicating 
has explained in detall what Ram Singh ( I. P . S .) , Daulta and Ranbir Singh were 
doing in Hindi agitation . Daulta addressed more than two hundred meetings 
opposing Hindi agitation . It was only the last year that we elected him M . P . 
from my Constituency . I did not contest on Congress ticket simply because 
Daulta was my relative . Professor Sher Singh had assured me the Congress 
ticket but I refused. Now I have been ordered by your leaders to contest him 
in 1962 but that is far of date . This man along with his friends deserve immedi 
ate punishment and I support the resolution to ex - communicate all the three, 

The resolution was passed by raising hands and audience were subject to 
an oath that Ranbir Singh and Daulta will not be allowed to enter into 
Parliament again . The oath was administered by Pandit Budh Dev who was 
described by respondent No. 1 as Guru of Haryana people ," 

Verification . - I, Pratap Singh Daulta, candidate for the election to the House 
of the People from the Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency , do hereby solemnly 
verify that the statements of fact made in all paragraphs in Schedule " A " are 
true to my knowledge . 
Dated : 6 - 4 - 62, 

PRATAP SINGH DAULTA , 
PLACE ; Chandigarh . 

Petitioner 


SCHEDULE " A " 
Particulars of the Schedule " A " 

Formation of Haryana Lok Samiti 
On the eve of election held in 1957 Professor Sher Singh and his associates 
mentioned in para 5 were Chief supporters of Congress and Sardar Partap Singh 
Kairon . Reason was that Prof. Sher Singh figured in Punjab Cabinet as Deputy 
Chief Minister Punjab . Sardar Kairon could not include Prof. Sher Singh in 
his cabinet, after elections. At the time of allotment of the tickets Congress 
High Command made it clear in writing to Sardar Kairon that Prof. Sher Singh 
was allowed to contest with the condition that he would not be included in 
cabinet again and he was not included . In order to impress on Congress High 
Command that only Prof . Sher Singh can maintain peace in Haryana, Hindi 
agitation was started by the leaders mentioned in para 5 . The pressure sought 
to be exercised on High Command produced opposite results and Prof Sher 
Singh was expelled from Congress Party . Since then respondent No. 1 along 
with others mentioned in para 5 used Arya Samaj platform for their political 
purposes and for brightening election prospects of 1902 . 


Sec . 8( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1593 


On approach of election some comuflage was sought to cover the religious 
body namely Arya Samaj and was found through a convention held on 30th 
April, 1961, presided over by Prof. Sher Singh in Daya Nand Math Rohtak . 

Mahashe Bharat Singh acted as stage Secretary. Among the speakers were 
all the leaders mentioned in para 5 . At the time of this convention some 
understanding was arrived with communişts also. Three communist workers 
from Rohtak attended this convention . They were Dharam Singh Sampalwal,, 
Raghbir Singh Jakhar and Shiv Narain Vatts . Pandit Siri Ram Ex . M . L . A . was 
also one of the invitees, he, however did not arrive at any working arrange 
ments with arrangements with Arya Samajis. As usual " Om Flags " were flying . 
in this convention also attended by all Hindi Satyagrahis who went jail in 1957 
Hindi agitation . In this convention Prof. Sher Singh had made it clear that 
Sh . Ranbir Singh will be opposed by Badlu Ram Ex- M . L . A ., the petitioner will 
be opposed by the respondent No. 1 and Prof. himself will contest from his 
old Constituency . 

Verification . - I, Partap Singh Daulata , candidate for the election to the 
House of the People from Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency , do hereby 
solemnly verify that statements of facts made in all paragraphs in Schedule " A " 
Are true to my knowledge , 


Dated : 6 -4 -62 , 
PLACE : Chandigarh . 


PARTAP SINGH DAULATA , 

Petitioner , 


SCHEDULE " C " 


Particulars of the Bohar meeting held on 2nd and 3rd December, 1961, 
It was arranged by Ved Parchar Mandal Pakasma Circle . The two days 
session started with the Yaga Havan a religious ceremony . After mid - day meals 
confcrence started with Hindi Samelan , Swami Santosh Anand presided it . 
The respondent No , 1 and his supporters mentioned in para 5 all addressed the 
meeting. Acharya Bhagwan Dev narrated history of Hindi agitation , criticised 
the Government for compulsory Punjabi Education in Haryana , He severly 
criticised the petitioner and Ch , Ranbir Singh then M . P . In the last he asked 
audienc : to vote for Haryana Samiti people who fought Hindi agitation and 
will fight against Punjabi in future. 

Prof . Sher Singh criticised anti- Hindi attitude of Punjab Government, com 
pulsion of teaching of Punjabi and necessity of having Matric standard of 
Punjabi for Haryana in respect of service recruitment. He appealed the audi 
ence to vote for those candidates only whọ can fight against Punjabi for Hindi, 
Only the candidates of Haryana Lok Samiti can do so . 

Respondent No, I made a brief speech said that Hindi is not only question of 
language but it was part and partial of their Dharma. If you want to protect 
your Dharm and language you should vote for Haryana Lok Samiti. He told 
the audience that Haryana Lok Samiti is according to dictates of " Satyarath 
Parkash " Samulaş 6 . Therefore, no question of other flag arises . Arya Samaj 
flag is to be flag of Haryana Lok Samiti. " We are all Sanyasis and Pan 
prasthis and only Tyagis can rulc India . With this purpose we are going to 
Legislatures . We want to fly our religious flag not only in Chandigarh Secreta 
riat, not only on Parliament building but whole over the World ," In the last 
respondent No. I uttered a couplet which in Hindi reads like this : " Uthae 
Dhwaja Om Ki" ham phirenge : " Usi Ke lle ham Jiyenge marenge" . Its render 
ing in English is , “ Let us resolve to take Om Flag for twenty four hours with 
us. We will live for it , we will die for it.” Others who made similar speeches 
besides the persons mentioned in para 5 were Raghbir Singh Siwana and Ram 
Mehar Pleader Rohtak . 

Three resolutions were adopted . According to the first resolution Arya 
Samaj fought for Hindi, will fight for Hindi therefore people should vote for 
Arya Samaj Leaders and for nonelse. According to the second resolution 
Government was urged to abolish Punjabi from Haryana . According to the 
third resolution the Samelan supported the language policy of the Arya Samelan 
held in Delhi on 21st May, 1981. After these speeches and resolutions Pandit 
Budh Dev distributed nearly five thousand Manpatras among those who went to 
Jail in 1957 in Hindi agitation . 

On 3rd December , 1961, next day before lunch various religious ceremonies 
were performed and after lunch political session started . It was presided over 
by Prof. Sher Singh , respondent No. 1, Prof. Ram Singh , president of Hindu 


1594 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ;MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1894 


( PART II 


Maha Sabha , Raghbir Singh Siwang made speeches. The main burden of their 
speeches was that next election was a " Dharma Yudh " , a battle with Sikhs and 
that Haryana Lok Samiti will fight the agents of the Sikhs petitioner and Ch . 
Ranbir Singh , M . P . and other Congress men were depicted as agents of Sikhs. 

Three resolutions were adopted , one for making a representation to Das 
Commission another for amendment in Hindu Code Bill and the third was in 
respect of Haryana people services of Punjab State. 

The session ended with Shri Budh Dev s Ashirvad , Shri Budh Dev gave his 
Ashirvad after administering the oath from the audience for voting for Haryana 
Lok Samiti, 

He warned the people that he was " Brahm " and that any body violating the 
pledge given to " Brahm ” will go . 

Verification . - I, Partap Singh Daulata , candidate for the election to the 
House of the People from the Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency , do hereby 
solemnly verify that the statements of fact contained in the various paragraphs 
of Schedule " C " are true to my knowledge. 
Dated : 6 - 4 -62, 

PARTAP SINGH DAULATA , 
Place : Chandigarh . 

Petitioner . 


SCHEDULE " D " 


Summary of the Particulars of the meeting held on 10 - 12 - 61 in village Beri , 

Jhajjar Assembly Constituency in Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency . 


The meeting was held under president of Shri Siri Chand president of Beri. 
The meeting was started with Piare Lal Bhajan " PIARA JHANDA OM KA " and 
after making a brief speech showing respondent No. 1 contribution to Hindi Ando 
lan of 1957 . He gave another Song " HARYANA LOOTLIYA DHADI WALON 
NE " Sh , Badlu Ram Ex , M . L . A , said that Prof. Sher Singh who is candidate from 
Jhajjar Constituency is a lion of Haryana. He only can liberate Haryana from 
Sikhs. Sidhanti ( Respondent No . 1 ) and Sher Singh were in Jail when Agitation 
was going on where were Pt. Bhagwat Dayal and Daulata . 

Nanhu Ram M .LA , narrated his favourite story of the boat which was drowned 
because one eyed man was in the boat and the boat was compared with Congress . 
He said that Congressmen were after permits and Kotas. Lok Sanriti Walas were 
fightig for Hindi and for Haryana. 

Jagdev Singh Sidhanți (Respondent No. 1) said " Daulata says that I am 
illiterate . This is the lio . I can read all the Vedas and Shasteras but I am 
opposed Punjabi s teaching in Haryana, Daulata says in olden days Sanyasis 
will go in Tapovan but in Kalyug they are running after Officers in Parliament 
and Assemblies. I am going to Parliament for Dharam , for this Flag . Daulata 
is Nastik and takes meat. That his anti Hindi you know all over the district. He 
( Daulata ) opposed Hindi Aandolan in 1957 whereas I ( respondent No. 1 ) went to 
Jail for Hindi" . He said , he was going to Parliament for the protection of 
Brahmins, Cows and ladies , 

Acharya Bhagwan Dev : “ War is between Dharam and Adharam between Hindi 
and Punjabi, between Haryana and Sikhastan ." Haryana Lok Samiti will fight 
for Hindi, for Haryana ; for Om Flag which will be hoisted at Chandigarh and 
Delhi. Prof. Sher Singh gave facts and figures showing discrimination with 
Haryana . He challenged the publication of Poster by Pt. Bhagwat Dayal alleging 
his signatures on Sachar Formula . He said he would like to go to Assembly to 
expell Punjabi from Haryana. 

In the last Pt. Budh Dev was asked to give Ashirvad to audience. He agreed 
to give Ashirvad with one condition . The condition was that audience should 
take a pledge to vote for Haryana Lok Samiti, candidates . President asked 
audience to raise their hands to assure Pandit Ji that his command will be 
respected. There upon Pandit Ji gave Ashirvad for the success of Haryana Lok 
Samati and warned persons stating that in case audience went back to their 
pledge they will go to Narak (Hell) as they have pledged before representative 
of the " Brahman ” . 

In this meeting more than seven thousand were given to Prof Sher Singh for 
his election compaign and the meeting ended . 


SEC. 5 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1595 


2 . Summary of the particulars of the meetings held on 19 - 12- 61 in village Bahrana , 
Bahadurgarh Assembly Constituency in Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency . 

The meeting was presided over by Lala Bakhtawar Lal, The meeting started 
with Piare Lai s Bhajan " PIARA JHANDA OM KA " and after making a brief 
speech showing respondent No. 1 contribution to Hindi Andolan of 1957. He 
gave another Song “ Haryana Loot Liya Dhadi Walon Ne" . 

Raghbir Singh Counseller Delhi, said that Sher Singh can rescue Haryana 
from Sikhs. 

The respondent No. 1 Jagdev Singh Sidhanti said that it was his own village 
and he need not to say much . He further said that petitioner does not believe in 
god , takes his meals at ASHOKA HOTEL where Cow s flesh is served . He 
thanked the villagers for giving him money , 

Acharya Bhagwan Dev narrated the history of Hindi Agitation in 1857 speak 
ing mostly on the contribution of respondent No. 1 for the success of that agita 
tion and that of Petitioner s opposition to that Andolan . He asked persons to 
vote for Sidhanți ( Respondent No. 1 ) who will fight for Hindi. 

Prof. Sher Singh gave facts and figures about services, criticised Govt. for 
compulsory cducation Gurmukhi in Haryana. He assured removal of compulsion 
if Haryana Lok Samiti wins in the Election . 


3 . Summary of the particulars of the meeting held on 7 - 1 - 1962 in Dighal, Bahadur 

garh Assembly Constituency in Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency . 
Piare Lal started meeting with his favourite song : - " OM KA PIARA 
JHANDA ” and after making a short specch about the greatness of Om Flag he 
said Hardwari Lal ( Congress candidate Assembly ) and the petitioner ( Partap 
Singh Daulata ) both are Sikh agents and are bad character persons because they 
drink and eat meat, 

Shri Raghbir Singh Siwana , Sh . Kanwal Singh made speeches but nothing 
objectionable . 

Acharya Bhagwan Dev narrated the history of Hindi Andolan . Sh . Jagdev 
Singh contribution in that Struggle and Petitioners opposition to Hindi Andolan 
and asked audience to vote for Capt. Kanwal Singh in Assembly Constituency 
and Shri Jagdev Singh in Parliamentary Constituency . Shri Sher Singh gave 
facts and figures showing discrimination to Haryana and criticising Govt. for the 
compulsory teaching of Gurinukhi in Haryana. Some money was given to Sh . 
Jagdev Singh Sidhanti ( respondent No. 1 ) and the meeting ended . 


4 . Summary of the particulars of the meeting held on 10 - 1 - 1962 at Akheri Madan 

Pur in Salhwas Constituency . 
The mseting was started with Piare Lal s Bhajan in praise of " Om Flag 
JHANDA PIARA OM KA " and said that this flag should be holsted all over the 
world . He said that Prof. Sher Singh Acharya Bhagwan Dev and Jagdev Singh 
(Respondent No. 1 ) always worked under this Flag . This flag was in their hands 
when they fought in Hyderabad when they fought for the protection of Hindi in 
1957 and this the Flag which is in our hand when we are going to battle for 
Haryana liberation through ballot papers and then he gave his favourite song 
“ HARYANA LOOT LIYA DHADI WALON NE " . 

He was followed by Raghbir Singh Sewag so called Counseller of Delhi. He 
criticised cogress on its failure of economic Helds and accused Punjab Govt, for 
discrimination with Haryana Acharya Bhagwan Dey said congress has allotted 
Its tickets from your assembly constituency , Chand Ram Chamar has given ticket. 
Every where Chamars got congress tickets , Dhanaks and Balmikies were given to 
tickets by Congress. This was great injustice Arya Samaj always come to help 
the under dog . We have picked on Attar Dhanak of your village as our candi 
date . All Jats should vote for this boy . In Parliament sitting M . P , who belongs 
to village Chimni is enemy of Hindi you know that Shri Jagdev Singh ( respondent 
No. 1 ) is making preparation for fighting election since Hindi Agitation days. 
This is our sure seat. You have to take care of Attar Singh , 

Jagdev Singh Sidhanti ( respondent No . 1 ) I have always worked under Om 
Flag as Mahashe Piare Lal told you . I worked for some time in Jullundur Divi 
sion for Arya Samaj. I saw where that Sikhs want to rule entire Punjab , Thig 
is a pity that this country belongs to Hindus and Aryas but others want to rule 


1596 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 / VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


[Parr Ł 


us . When there is no Sikh population in Haryana why Punjabi is taught here . 
I am contesting Daulata who is Nastik ; takes cow flesh , who opposed Hindi 
Andolan and wants Gurmukhi to continue in Haryana Schools. He is a trusted 
lieutenant of Sardar Partap Singh Kairon . Daulata and his leader Nehru both are 
anti Arya Samaj and anti God , I think that Om Flag is a great spiritual power 
So , we hold it . He asked audience to vote for Assembly constituency and for 
Parliament to Attar Singh and himself respectively . 

Ch , Nanhu Ram then M . L . A . told the audience that the present congress was 
not of Gandhi and was under bad influence . He asked Dhanaks and Balmikies 
to be up and fight Chamars for their liberation . 

Sh , Sher Singh M . L . A , gave facts and figures to show that Haryana was being 
ignored by Sikh Chief Minister . He criticised Govt. for teaching Gurmukhi in 
Haryana . Some money was paid to Attar Singh . 
5 . Summary of the Particulars of the meeting held in SAMPLA on 12 - 1 - 1962 , 

Sampla Assembly Constituency in Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency . 


The meeting was started by Piare Lal s Bhajan " JHANDA PIARA OM KA " 
and after Bhajan said ; " there are two camps in election battle arrad against each 
other. One is headed by Sardar of Kairon and another headed by Dharam Putar 
Prof. Sher Singh . This is battle of Maha Bharat. Partap Singh Kairon and 
Partap Singh Daulata are on the side of " Adharm " . Sidhanti ( Jagdev Singh ) 
and Ch . Ram Sarup are on the side of Dharam . Siri Ram Sharma is also a stoog 
of Pratap Singh Kairon . After Piare Lal Sh . Vishva Mittar gave a song " Utho 
Jago Hyya Sebera " and asked the auidence to vote for sidhanti ( Jagdev Singh 
respondent No. 1 ) . He said Partap Kana (blind of one eye ) is traitor of Hindi 
and Arya Smaj. He will sell out Haryana to sikhs." 

Master Nanhu Ram said that congress was spending lacs to get Sher Singh 
defeated in Jhajjar constituency . He said " Here in Parliament contest is between 
Sidhanti ( Jagdev Singh respondent No. 1 ) and Daulata . Sidhanti ( Jagdev Singh ) 
knows all the four " Vedas " where as Partap Kana is a " Nastik ” till yesterday he 
was communist . Now he has turned himself into a Congressman , The boat which 
has among its passengers any and any one eyed man is served to be drowned . 
After him Ram Pat Banprasti gave a song " AYE DESH DAROI GANDHI TOPI 
DHAR KE ” , he was followed Acharya Bhagwan Dev, Said it was not congress 
who made Hindi National Language, credit goes to Arya Samaj under whose 
pressure congress accepted Hindi as national language . Who says that Parents 
of Sumer Singh who died in Hindi Andolan were given of compensation of 
Rs. 10 , 000 it was only 3 , 000 . One congressman has written a booklet and has 
objected to the display of Om Flag in our meeting and on our Motors . This is 
our right to do so we live for this Flag and weare prepared to die for this. In 
this booklet it is written that a telegram has been given to Election Commissioner 
on using of our Om Flag as party Flag by Haryana Lok Samiti - - Election Com 
missioner cannot stop it. 

Sin . ilarly Pt. Şiri Ram Sharma who is a candidate from Sampla Constituency 
has written in his news papers " Haryana Tilak ” Arya Samaj was doing great 
harm to Haryana by briving religion and " Om Flag " in election . We want to 
convert the entire the country in onc religion . One kind of living , one kind of 
food and dress . 


Partap Singh Kairon described Sher Singh a girlish Politician of Haryana. 
Let him know that our girls are very brave we will tear out every hair from 
Kairon s beard . Haryana has produced Sobrave persons who conquered 
"Mughals" . One of our man murdered Governor of Aurengzeb . We will finish 
Sikhs from Punjab . If you yote for Lok Samiti you can liberate Haryana from 
Sikhs. 


Ch , Ram Sarup said Maru Singh was against Congress now he is in Congress 
whereas I am constant in politics. He was followed by Ram Dhari created hetred 
against Chamar Community saying that Chamars have deprived Balmikies and 
Dhanaks of their rights . He said that Congress Raj was chamar Raj, Dhanak 
and Churas should vote against Congress . The respondent No . 1 Jag Dev Singh 
Sidhanti congratulated the villagers of Naya Bans where Saheed Samer Singh 
was born , who sacrified his life for the cause of Hindi in Hindi Agitation . Now 
again there is battle between Dharam and Adharam . Hindi is national language 
why people of Haryana should read Gurmukhi. Haryana Lok Samiti will liberate 
Hindi from Punjabi and Haryana from Şikhas . Those who say that Arya Samaj 
should remain out politics want Adharam Raj in India by keeping away Dharam 


SEC. 3(it)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1597 


from Politics . Haryana Lok Samiti has been firmed in accordance with the dic 
tates of Satyarath Prakash chapter Six . " He, who says that Ram Sarup is not 
an Arya Samaji tells halt truth . He supported Arya Samaj in Hindi Andolan so 
he deserves your votes." 

Daulata says that I am illiterate . I am graduate from the Punjab University . 
Daulata is Nastik . He is communist at heart. I am going to Parliament for pro 
tection of Cows, Brahmans and ladies. Daulata is going simply to build another 
Bungalow in Delhi," Capt. Kanwal Singh candidate on Haryana Lok Samiti ticke 
from Bahadurgarh Constituency told the audience that for the protection of 
Haryana, Congress must be defeated on polls . 

Raghbir Singh who posed himself as counseller of Delhi ( in fact he was not) 
criticised congress on its economic and political failures . 


Ch . Sher Singh was the last to speak gave figures to prove that Haryana is 
not getting its proper share in services . He said that Haryana should be gayed 
from Punjabi Language and its way is to vote for Haryana Lok Samiti, He denied 
to brave signed Sachar Formula which was responsible for teaching Gurmukhi 
in Haryana. 


6 . Summary of the particulars of the meeting held in Ladpur on 16 - 1 - 1962 from 

Jhajjar Assembly Constituency of Jhajjar Parliamentary constituency . 
The meeting started with Piare Lal Bhajan " PIARA JHANDA OM KA " and 
after making a brief sperch showing the contribution of Arya Samaj is to Hindi 
Andolan in 1957. He gave another song A " HARIYANA LOOT LIYA DHADJ 
WALON NE " Pt. Ram Singh of Beri said " Daulata is communist at heart . He 
only wants to grind his own axe . He is selfish and traitor . Do not vote for him ." 


Raghbir Singh counseller Delhi said that Sher Singh and Sidhanti ( Jagdev 
Singh respondent No. 1 ) only fight for Haryana . So , vote for Haryana Lol 
Samiti candidate . 


Jagdev Singh Sidhanti ( Respondent No. 1 ) said , " I stayed at Jullundur, 
There I saw administration work and campared with that of Haryana division . 
Here in Haryana Govt. is doing nothing for the betterment of the people . I always 
served Arya Samaj and Om Flag . I fought for Hindi against Gurmukhi and went 
in Jail. Daulata is Nastik (Does not believe in God ) does not believe in Om and 
eats meat. He also says me illiterate but I ani graduate of Punjab University . I 
ain going to Parliament to serve Brahamans, Cow and Kahya (Virgin Girl) . 

Acharya Bhawgan Day said , " Battle of Dharam and Adharm has started . 
Gurmukhi forcibly introduced in Haryana . You fought for Hindi language. 
Daulata and other congress walas opposed Hindi Agitation , Defeat Congress and 
vote for Haryana Lok Samiti candidates. Prof. Sher Singh gave facts and figures 
to show that there is discrimination in services In Haryana . Congress allotted 
tickets to all Chamar candidates while ignoring Dhanak and Balmīkies . He also 
told audicnce that he never signed on Sachar Formula ." 

Sh , Dharam Pal also made speech and Chander Singh gave a song. After 
meeting cnded . 


7 . Summary of of the particulars of the meeting held in village Majra ( Dubal 
dhan ) , Jhajjar Assembly Constituency in Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency . 
The meeting was presided over by Lal Ram Niwas resident of village Majra . 

The meeting was started with Piarc Lal s Bhajan " JHANDA PIARA OM KA" . 
After this Bhajan he said that this was the battle of Dharam and Adharam . On 
one side there were Arya Samaj and Om Flag whereas on the other there were 
Kairon s beard and his congress walas agents. The Sikhs had totally looted the 
Haryans. After this speech he gave a second song : - " Haryana Loot Ke Kha Liya 
Dhadi Walon Ne Attar Singh Dhanak a candidate of Haryana Lok Samiti from 
Salhawas Constituency said audience that Congress allotted tickets to Chamars 
in all reserve constituencv in Haryana. “ So , it is the party of Chamars and there 
is a Chamar Raj." Congress discriminately ignored all other castes of Harijans 
t.e . Dhanalcs and Balmikis . He further told the Dhanak community to vote for 
Prof. Sher Singh and Sidhanti ( Jagdev Singh respondent No. 1 ) as his and their 
pārty was one and the same i. e . Haryana Lok Samiti. They i.e . Jagdev Singh 
respondent No. 1 and Prof. Sher Singh were helping him whole heartedly . If 
Dhanaks of my caste want to seem successful they should help and vote for the 


1598 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22 , 1881 


Part I ] 


candidates of Haryana Lok Samiti as they have Om Flags for which this Dharam 
Yug is being fought to keep the Flag high and up ." 

Ram Dhari Balmiki said , " I am a candidate from Meham constituency . Some 
times ago I was in Congress Party but importance is given to Chamars only in 
this party , All other Harijans are ignored , " He further said that he would 
persuade his caste fellows i. e . Balmikies to help and caste their votes in favour 
of the candidates of Haryana Lok Samiti as he, also was candidate for Haryana 
Lok Samiti. 

Nanhu Ram M . L . A . said , " I was congress President but I resigned congress on 
the ground that all the corruption of Zamindar leaguers entered this party . 
Those person who criticised and condemned the congress now the same person 
have their hold on congress . The boat of Congress will sink as there is one eyed 
man among the passengers in the boat . The Sikhs are looting the Haryana . 
The money is taken through taxes from the people of Haryana and is spent in 
Punjabi region . If you want yoke of Sikhs thin vote for Congress otherwise yote 
for the candidates of Haryana Lok Samati whose beloved Flag is Om Flag ." 

Jagdev Singh Sidhanti ( respondent No . 1 ) I always served Om Flag . I lived 
for time in Jullundur. The whole of the capital got from Haryana is being spent 
in Jullundur division . I fought battle against meat eater in Military . Partap 
Singh Daulata takes meat . In the rule of Congress the Cows are slaughtered . 
Hindi language is in danger and the Punjabi (Gurmukhi) has made compulsory 
in Haryana. Daulata is supporter of Gurmukhi and enemy of Hindi as he ( Daulata ) 
opposed Hindi Agitation in 1957, I am going to Parliament for protection of 
Brahmans, cows and Kanyas ( Virgin Girls ). Daulata says me illeterate. I am 
graduate from Punjab University . In order to serve Haryana I adopted Prof. 
Sher Singh as my leader . 

Prof . Sher Singh , M . L . A . gave facts and figures to show that Haryana is not 
getting its proper share in services . Surely Partap Singh Kairon would be 
thrown away from the Chief Ministership . He further said , " Give defeat to con 
gress so that due share of Haryana can be achieved . Those , who want the right 
for Haryana , want to support Haryana Lok Samiti, want prorgess of Hindi and 
want to abolish Gurmukhi from Haryana raise their hands and given pledge to 
vote for Haryana Lok Samiti whole heartedly and will maintain the respect of 
Om Flag " . Some money was given to Prof. Sher Singh for his election Campaign . 

In the last Pt. Budh Dev was asked to give his Ashirvad to audience . He 
agreed to give ashirvad with one condition . The condition was that audience 
should take a pledge to vote for Haryana Lok Samiti candidates. President asked 
audicnce to raise their hands to assure Pandit Ji that this command will be res 
pected . Thereupon Pandit Ji gave ashirvad for the success of Haryana Lok 
Samiti and warned persons stating that in case auidence went back to their 
pledge they will go to Narak (Hell) as they have pledged before representative 
of Brahmin , After this meeting ended . 


8 . Summary of the Particulars of the Meeting held on 18 - 2 - 1962, in village 
Pakashma, Simpla Assembly Constituency in Jhajjar Parliamentary 

Constituency . 


The meeting was held under the Presidentship . of Pt. Tale Ram . This meeting 
of Haryana Lok Samiti was convened by Ved Parchar Mandal Pakashma Ch , 
Ram Bhaj Hooda Advocate nephew of Ch . Ram Sarup candidate for Assembly 
Constituency on Haryana Lok Samiti Ticket acted as stage Secretary , 

( 1) Sh , Piare Lal Bhajnik started with his usual Bhajan inpraise of " OM 
FLAG ” , after this Bhajan he pointed out towards a big Om Flag Axed near the 
stage." People of Haryana see towards this flag. This is Dharam Flag . There 
is a battle between Sikhs of Punjabi region and Hindus of Haryana, All rights 
of Haryana people are with the Sikhs. If you vote for this flag, it promises to 
bring your rights ." Then he gave another song. The Arst line of this Song was 
" HARYANA LOOT LIYA DHADI WALON NE " . 


This was highly provocative and created bitter feelings against Sikhs. He 
further said that Sher Singh , Sidhanti ( Jagdev Singh respondent No. 1 ) and 
other candidates of Haryana Lok Samiti can liberate Haryana from Sikhs. 


Master Nanhu Ram then M . L . A , said that old Congress is dead and those Jamin 
dar leaguers have joined Congress who used to beat Congress Walas . He asked 
audience to vote for Haryana Lok Samiti, 


SEC. 8(II)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1999 


- - - - 


Acharya Bhagwan Dey said , It was Sampla Constituency which gave largest 
recruitment in Hindi Andolan in 1957 . In this Dharam Yudh you are supposed to 
give largest votes to Haryana Lok Samiti. 

Sh . Jagdev Singh Sidhanti went in Jail for Hindi Bhasha whereas Daulata 
opposed Hindi Andolan . " I am accused for giving Ram Şarup ticket of Haryana 
Lok Samiti on the ground that Ch , Ram Sarup is not an Arya Samaji. I did no 
wrong in this matter Ch . Maru Singh is an Arya Samajist who opposed Hindi 
Andolan like Daulata , so man like Daulata and Maru Singh cannot be called Arya 
Samajists as they opposed Hindi Andolan in 1957. Ram Sarup supported it that 
is why we have given him " Om Flag" for contesting Election . Recognisition of 
an Arya Samaji is that he, who holds Om Flag is Arya Samaji and he deserves 
your votes . 

Ch . Ram Sarup said that he was M . L . A , from this Constituency long ago and 
that he served people with Zeal. " Some body has written a booklet depicting 
me of an enemy of Arya Samaj. I was with Arya Samaj in Hindi Andolan in 
1957 , that is why I got Haryana Lok Samiti ticket. Do not read such booklets 
I deserves your votes because I am friendly with Arya Samaj and I am Hindi 
Premi" . 

Jagdev Singh respondent No. 1 “ I am apposing Pratap Singh Daulata sitting 
M . P . At heart he is communist . He does not believe in God , he is nastik . He 
takes cow s flesh when does not get other meat plate in Hotels . I am guardian 
of this " Om Flag " , under this Flag I fought battle against meat eaters in Army, 
I am going to Parlament for the protection of Kanya ( Virgin Girls ) Brahmin 
and Cows. Congress Walas say that Sidhanti knows only how to do a " Hawan " . 
Yes , I will see there that Parliament will start with Yoga Hawan and side by 
side the National Flag, this flag of Dharam be displayed at Parliament building , 
Cheers . If you have any love for Hindi then vote for me and for Ch . Ram 
Sarup . If you love Sikhs and Partap Singh Kairon then vote for their agents 
Partap Singh Daulta and Maru Singh " . 

" Professor Sher Singh gaye facts and figures of various departments in order 
to prove that Punjabi region gets lions share . He explained to the audience 
how Hindi Andolan was started and how Daulata and Maru Singh opposed it . 
He warned the audience that if Hindi Andolan and this election andolan were 
not properly understood by them then Punjabi will remain predominent langu 
age in Punjab by Pt. Nehru" . 

Pt. Budh Dev Vidya Alankar , stage secretary introduced Pt. Budh Dev as 
Dada of Haryana and said that he will give his Ashirwad . " Pt Budh Dey asked 
audience to raise their hands towards sun and to give " Vachan " (pledged ) that 
they will vote for sun . Sun was symbol for the various candidates of Haryana 
Lok Samiti” . 

After this Vachan ceremony Pt. Budh Dey warned the audience that if they 
would go back from their vachan they will go to “ Narak " (Hell ) If they keep 
to their words then it will be the victory of Om flag . 

After the Ashirwad and oath administering ceremony by Pt. Budh Dev 
meeting ended with songs. 
9 . Summary of the particulars of the meeting held on 7th February , 1962, 

in village Asudha , Jhajjar Assembly Constituency in Jhajjar Parlla 

mentary Constituency . 
The meeting was started with Piare Lal s Bhajan " JHANDA PIARA OM KA" 
He said that the respect of Om Flag was in their hands and gave a second song : - 
" HARAYANA LOOT KE KHA LIYA DHADI WALON NE " . 

Nanhu Ram M . L . A . said audience " Ch . Kanwal Singh is a Haryana Lok Samits 
candidate from your constituency and his opponent is a person who for his whole 
served the Government service . He (Congress candidate ) never selected the 
youths of Haryana for posts in Punjab while he was the member of Public Service 
Commission . He never follows politics . All bad men have entered the congress 
party and the old good persons have left congress . “ Kanwal Singh candidate of 
Haryana Lok Samiti said that he had contested election last time from this con 
stituency . I served and will serve this locality . " If you give me Chance this 
time I will fight for the rights of Haryana " . 

Acharya Bhagwan Dey said , " the residents of this village participated to a 
great extent in Hindi Andolan " One person also was given a all of the people of 


1600 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 / VAISAKHA 22 , 1864 


(Part II 


this locality are Arya Samajis. You should face the congress bravely . In Con 
gress vote the cows are slaughtered . In this Government no attention or regard 
is paid to Haryana . Daulata and Ranbir Singh bother opposed Hindi Agitation 
that is why Congress allotted them in tickets . 


Jagdev Singh Sidhanti ( Respondent No. 1 ) said , " I served and worked for 
Arya Samay and also worked under the guide of Om Flag . I fought for Hindi 
language. Daulata who is my opponent is enemy of Hindi and supporter of 
Gurumukhi He (Petitioner ) is an agent of Sikhs. He says me illiterate . I 
am graduate of Punjab University . I fought against meat - eaters in Army, I 
am going to the Parliament for the protection of Kanya (Virgin Girl) , cows and 
Brahmins. 


Sher Singh , M . L . A . said " some people say that I signed on Sachar Formula , it 
is quite lie . Our battle is for the rights of Haryana, 45 per cent services should 
be given to Haryana people while on 5 per cent, services is given . Kairon not 
at all wants to give rights to Haryana . In services compulsory matric standard 
Gurmukhi has been introduced in Haryana . This compulsion of Gurmukhi should 
be abolished . Make Haryana Lok Samiti successful so that we may get rights 
of Haryana and compulsion of Gurmukhi be abolished 


Besides these Haryana Lok Samiti candidates two communists Sh , Bhim 
Singh and Mange Ram Vats also delivered speeches . 


10 . Summary of the particulars of the meeting held on 11th February , 1962 in 

Jhajjar Town , Jhajjar Constituency in Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency . . 

This meeting was presided over by Lala Paras Ram resident of Jhaitar . The 
meeting started with Piare Lal s Bhajan " JHANDA PIARA OM KA ” After this 
- song he said " , It is battle of between Dharam and Adharam , between Beard 
walas and Arya Samajis. Chimniwalas ( Petitioner ) is a supporters of Beard 
walas and Sher Singh and Sldhanti ( Respondent No . 1 ) fight for Haryana 
- Chimniwala (petitioner ) also opposed Hindi Agitation in 1957. 

Attar Singh Dhanak said , " In congress rule only chamars are considered Hari 
jans that is why I am contesting election . Prof. Sher Singh and other candl 
dates of Haryana Lok Samiti are on my back , IL Dhanaks ot my caste want to 
see me successful then they vote for Prof. Sher Singh and for other candidates 
of Haryana Lok Samiti" . Ram Dhari Balmikel said , " All Baimikees must help 
Prof Sher Singh and other Haryana Lok Samiti candidates . I adopted my leader 
Prof , Sher Singh on the ground to fight for Haryana . So , elect Haryana Lok 
Samiti candidates " . 

Ram Dhari Gaur said , " I am Haryana Lok Samiti candidate from Gohana 
Constituency . Some persons propagate among Brahmins that Pt Bhagwat Dayal 
Is Brahmin but I am also Pandit so all of my caste brothers should vote for 
Haryana Lok Samiti candidates so that a battle for the rights of Haryana can be 
fought. 

Budh Ram , ML .A . said , " Prof. Sher Singh always fought for Haryana. We 
fought for Hindi Agitation . In Haryana Gurmukhi is compulsory . Partap Singh 
Kairon called Sher Singh the girl of Haryana . You people should show Karron 
whether Sher Singh is a brave man of Haryana or a girl" . 

Mahasha Bhart Singh a candidate of Haryana Lok Samiti from Rohtak con 
stituency said , " I will appeal to Sainis and others to vote for Arya Samajis . By 
doing so we can raise Haryana and Hindi language high and up . 

Kanwal Singh said , “ Congressman due to party discipline cannot raise voice 
for Haryana. Help Haryana Lok Samiti candidates only Haryana Lok Samili 
can fight for Haryana Tickets have allotted such persons who were not in Con 
gress by last years " , 

Nanhu Ram , M . L . A . said . " only Nehru is good man in congress party . Many 
other are thieves . Partap Singh Daulata used to abuse congress and now he is 
in congress. Pt. Bhagawat Dayal is outsider not of this locality . He ( P4 . Bhag 
wat Dayal ) knows nothing about this area " . 

Acharya Bhagwan Dev said " We fought Hyderabad Andolan under the 
guide of Om Flag and also fought Hindi Agitation . Now this election is a battle 
for the rights of Haryana. Elect Haryana Lok Samiti candidates otherwise 
there will be Sikha shahi in Haryana . These refugees are worse than Muslims. 


Src. 3 ( ii) ] 


THE GAZEITE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKHA 22. 1884 


1601 


One and a half million thieves (refugees ) have been settled in Haryuna . What 
good for Haryana atrator can do like Partap Singh Kairon . For the prosperity 
of Hindi language and Haryana you should vote for the candidates of Haryana 
Lok Samiti" . 

Jagdev Singh Sidhanti (respondent No . 1 ) said , " seeing discrimination in Har 
yana I became ready to contest election and Prof. Sher Singh adopted my leader. 
Partap Singh Dualata cats meat and is enemy of Hindi whereas I am contest 
ing election for the progress of Hindi language, Partap Singh Daulta says me 
illiterate . I am graduate of Punjab University and know six languages . I am 
going to Parliament for the protection of Brahmin , cow and Kanya (Virgin 
girl ) Prof. Sher Singh said , " Partap Singh Kairon confer all rights to sikhs not 
to Haryana only 5 per cent. rights are given to Haryana . A poster, printed by 
some one congresswala , bearing my signature on Sachar Formula is quite 
wrong . He appealed audience to vote for the candidates of Haryana Lok 
Samiti ” . 

In the last Pt. Budh Dev was asked to give Ashirvad as " Dada " ( greatest 
Pandit ) of Haryana, He said he will give Ashirvad only if audience gave him 
“ Vachan " to vote for Haryana Lok Samiti candidates. People were asked to 
raise their hands towards sun and to remember sun on the day of polling . This 
is significant that Haryana Lok Samiti has chosen sun as symbol for their candi 
dates. He warned , " those who go back from thc pledge given to the highest 
Brahman of Haryana will go to Narak (Hell) . 
11. Summary of the particulars of the meeting held on 12th February , 1962 , in 
village Badli, Jhajjar Assembly Constituency in Jhajjar Parliamentury 

Constituency . 


The meeting was started with Piare Lal s Bhajan " JHANDA PIARA OM KA " 
He further said , " It is a battle between Dharam and Adharam . It is the ques 
tion of respect of Arya Samaj and of Om Flag. You have to tell in election 
whether you want rights of Haryana or want to be the slaves of the Sikhs and 
also gave a second song : 


" HARYANA LOOT KE KHA LIYA DHADI WALON NE " Nanhu Ram M . L . A . 
said , " The taxes realised from Haryana are spend for the prosperity of JUL 
LUNDUR division , Congress party almost has ended only it is alive for noth 
ing . The bad character men are controlling the congress . The Zamindar 
leaguers have over come Congress . Those who sacrificed for Congress have no 
importance these days. You should vote for the candidates of Haryana Lok 
Samiti for the rights of Haryana. Attar Singh Dhanak appealed his caste peo 
ple to vote for Prof . Sher Singh and for other candidates of Haryana Lok 
Samiti. 


Jagdev Singh Sidhanti (Respondent No . 1 ) said , " I always served Arya Samaj. 
Seeing discrimination and unjustice with Haryana I adopted Prof. Sher Singh as 
my leader and on the insisting of people I am contesting election . Partap Singh 
Daulta who is my apponent is an enemy of Hindi, eats mcat and is agent of 
Kairon and of the Sikhs. He (petitioner ) says me illiterate . I am graduate of 
Punjab University known six languages. 


Prof . Sher Singh said , " unjustice with Haryana is going on . Inspite of 45 per 
cent rights only 5 per cent rights are given to Haryana . The money realised 
from Haryana is spent in Jullundur division . Besides chamars not a single ticket 
given to other Harijans by Congress. Whether Balmikis or Dhanuks are Harijans 
or not. “ He further appealed audience to vote in favour of the candidates of 
Haryana Lok Samiti for protection of Hindi language , for Om Flag and for the 
rights of Haryana . 


In the last Pt. Budh Dev was asked to give Ashirvad to audience. He agreed 
to give Ashirvad with one condition . The condition was that audience should 
take a pledge to vote for Haryana Lok Samiti candidates . The audience was 
asked to raise their hands to assure Pandit Ji that his command will be respected . 
Thereupon Pandit Ji gave ashirvad for the success of Haryana Lok Samiti and 
warncd persons stating that in case audience went back to their pledge, they 
will go to Narak (Hell) as they have pledged before representutivs of the 
" Braham ." 


After this the mceting was over. 


1602 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 19 , 1962 / VAISAKHA 22 , 1864 


(PART II 


12. Summary of the particulars of the meeting held on 15th February 1962 in 

Dulhera , Bahadurgarh Assembly Constituency in Jhajjar Parliament Consti 

tilency . 
The meeting was started with Piare Lal s Bhajan " Jhanda PIARA OM KA " and 
said , " on 24th Feb . 1962 all of you have to decide whether you want keep Haryana 
under the rule of Beard Walas ( The Sikh ) or want rule of the people residing in 
Haryana, If you want to maintain respect of Om Flag or not. Levying taxes 
in Haryana the realised money is spent in the area of the Sikhs" After this he 
gave second song " HARYANA LOOT LIYA DHADI WALON NE ” . 

Nanhu Ram M . L . A . said , " congress has become corrupt now . The old persons 
have resigned congress. Now there is a hold on congress of such persons who were 
anti congress , Şiri Chand and Daulata ( Petitioner ) used to abuse congress and 
congress is their monoply . All Haryana rights are given to Punjabi region . He 
appealed audience to vote for Kanwal Singh a candidate of Haryana Lok Samiti 
Jagdev Singh ( respondent No. 1 ) and Haryana Lok Samiti can only bring 
rights to Haryana . 

Kanwal Singh said , " I contested election as an opposition candidate last time 
in 1957. In the period of last five years no constructive work has been done in 
this locality . If you vote for congress no work will be done for you . I will 
fight for the rights of Haryana with Prof Sher Singh . In all reserve consti 
tuencies tickets have been allotted to the chamars only other castes 1.e . Balmikis 
and Dhanaks have been ignored totally whereas Haryana Lok Samiti allotted 
tickets to Attar Singh Dhanak from Salhawas constituency and Ram Dhari Balmiki 
from Mehma constituency . 

Jagdev Singh Sidhanti ( respondent No. 1 ) said , " I remained in Jullundur for 
some time, all sorts of facilities and rights are prior to Punjabi region in com 
parison with Hindi region . My opponent is Pratap Singh ( Petitioner ) on congress 
ticket . He takes meat and opposed Ilindi Agitation in 1957. In congress rule 
the Cows are slaughtered . In Ashoka Hotel beaf is served there. Nehru also 
takes meals there . Partap Singh ( Petitioner ) to takes meals there. He 
( pctitioner ) says me illiterate I am graduate of Sanskrit and know six languages. 

Prof. Sher Singh M . L . A . said " Om Battle is for the right of Haryana. We say 
that 45 per cent rights should be given to Haryana in accordance with its popula 
tion but only 5 per cent rights are given . Secondary is a compulsion of Punjabi 
in Haryana. He fought agitation for Hindi language and will fight it needed . 
He further appealed audience to vote for the candidates of Haryana Lok Samiti 
and said those who are ready to vote in favour of Lok Samiti raise there hands. 
People raised their hands up . Prof. Sher Singh thanked the audience and 
moeting ended . 


13 . Summary of the Particulars of the meeting held on 16th February 1962 in 

village Sisana , Sampla Assembly Constituency in Jhajjar Parliamentary 
Constituency . 

The meeting started with Piare Lal s Bhajan “ JHANDA PIARA OM KA SADA 
RAHEGA UNCHA " , after the song he said " this eloction is Kabaddi played by 
two tcams one is Dharam Pala and the other is Adharam Pala . Kairon is Korwa 
of Maha Bhart and Lok Samiti candidates are Pandwas headed by Dharam Putar 
Sher Singh , Kairon s friends Daulata and Maru Singh arc Daryodhan and 
Shukni." Then he gave another song " HARYANA LOOT LIYA DHADI WALON 
NE " , 

Ram Bhaj Hooda who acted as stage Secretary said " the candidates of Haryana 
Lok Samiti will fight for Haryana rights " . 

Ram Dhari Balmiki who was candidate from Meham Constituency on Haryana 
Lok Samiti ticket said , " so far as Harijans are concerned congress Raj is Chamar 
Raj. Balmikies and Dhanaks should revolt against it." He further told that 
Haryana Lok Samiti was friend of Dhanak and Balmiki castes, Haryana Lok 
Samiti gave ticket of Arya Samaj to a Balmiki in Mcham constituency and a 
Dhanak in Salhawas constituency . According to him it was thr interests of these 
two castes to vote for Arya Samaj candidates otherwise Balmiki candidate from 
Meham and Dhanak candidate from Salhawas will losc their elections. 

Jagdev Singh respondent No . 1 " Daulata says that I am illiterate , I know 
Dharam , education , he knows English . H cannot read a word from or Shastras 
He is agent of Sikhs. He is Lieutenant of Partap Singh Kairon who is a fanatic 
Sikh . If you wunt to liberate Haryana from Sikhs, vote for me." 


Sro. 3( 11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1603 


Ch . Badlu Ram assured the audience , " that Prof. Sher Singh will be the next 
Chief Minister of Punjab and will remove compulsion of Punjabi from Haryana." 

Sh , Ram Mehar Hooda stated that Police was of two kinds, one has red turban 
as its headgear and other C . I. D . which has no turban . " Maru Singh is Congress 
man with a congress turhan whereas Siri Ram is a hidden Congressman . He 
said beware of Şiri Ram also ." 

Ch . Ram Sarup : " It is village of Dahiyas and I was responsible for pushing 
Ch . Tika Ram to Ministership who was Dahiya. All others were in lavour of 
Ch . Suraj Mal of Hissar. I deserve votes of Dahiya Gotar , I will serve you 
again as before . Pt. Budh Dev Vidya Alankar: — Stage Secretary introduced 
Pt. Budh Dev as Dada of Haryana and told that h will give his Ashirvad . 

Pt. Budh Dev asked audience " to raise their hands towards Sun and to give 
Vachan that they will vote for sun . Sun was symbol for the various candidates 
of Haryana Lok Samiti." 

Afler this Vachan ceremony Pt, Budh Dev warned that if they would go back 
from their words they will go to Hell. If they keep their words then it will be the 
victory of our " Om Flag " . 

After the Ashirvad and oath administering ceremony by Pt. Budh Dev 
meeting cnded with songs sung by Piare Lal Bhajnik . 


14 . Summary of the particulars of the meeting held on 18th February 1962 in 

Bahadurgarh , Bahadurgarh Assembly Constituency in Jhajjar Parliamentary 
Constituency . 

The meeting was started with Piare Lal s Bhajan " Jhanda Piara Om Ka" : He 
said , " it is battle between Dharam and Adharam . Sher Singh is the leader of 
Haryana and Lok Samiti walas fight for Haryana, Vote for the candidates of the 
Haryana Lok Samiti oth - rwise Haryana will go under the voke of Sikhs. After 
this he gave a second song. " HARYANA LOOT LIYA DHADHI WALON NE " . 

Nanhu Ram M . L . A . said , " no share is being given to Haryana . Kairon wants 
to ruin Ilaryana. So that the people of Ilaryana huve no voice. In Congress 
there are slaves of Kairon . The boat of the Congress will sink because one eyed 
man is that and the same person is now a Congress man who some times ago 
used to criticise the Congress Party . 

Attar Singh Dhanak appealed his cast : fellows to vote in favour of Kanwal 
Singh and Sidhanti ( respondent No. 1 ) Ram Dhari Balmiki. He made appeal to 
the Balmikis to elect the candidates of the Haryana Lok Samiti as thc congress 
is only the party of Chamars . Badlu Ram Ex . M .LA, said the audience only 
Prof. Sher Singh is the leader of Haryana . Under his guidance all of we are 
fighting for Haryana . Kanwal Singh Tought against the English and now will 
fight against the Sikhs. He further appealed the audience to vote for Kanwal 
Singh and Sidhanti ( respondent No. 1 ) . 

Kanwal Singh candidate of Haryana Lok Samiti said , " I contested last election 
and you people voted for me but I could not succeed . Within the period of five 
years no constructive work has been done in this constitucncy . The realised 
money from Haryana is being spent in Punjabi region . We fight against this . 


Jagdev Singh Sidhanti ( respondent No. 1 ) said , " I remained in Jullundur for 
some time and saw constructive work done by the Government but here in 
Haryana it is equal to Zero . Gurmikhi forcibly has been introduced in Haryana. 
We fought agitation for the protection of Hindi language. Partap Singh Daulata 
(Petitioner ) and other congress man opposes this agitation . In Congress rule the 
Cow are slaughtered , Daulata says me illiterate but I am a graduate of Punjab 
University and know six languages . I am going to Parliament to fight a battle 
for Haryana. " 


Acharya Bhagwan Dev said , " some persons say that we use Om Flag. I tell 
them they also can use this Om Flag if they want it . One day this Om Flag will 
fly over the whole of the world . Arya Samaj fought Hindi Agitation . Gurmukhi 
should not teach in Haryana. Now it is battle for th right of Haryana. The 
pcoplc residing in Ilaryana arc ready to sacrifice every thing for the protection of 
Haryana . In order to get the rights for Haryana and for the progress of Hindi 
Language . You should vote for candidates of the Haryana Lok Samiti. Partap 
Singh Daulata opposed the Hindi Agitation . He is an ill hearted man and is an 
agent of Kairon and the Sikhs, 


1604 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


[Part II 


Prof. Sher Singh ML.A . said , " Inspite of 45 per cent rights only 5 per cent 
rights have been given to Haryana , We will fight for this He further told , " I 
never signed on Sachar Formula There should be no compulsion of Matric 
standard of Gurmukhi in posts In Congress only Chamars are considered 
Hallans Neither Balmiki nor Dhanak given a congress ticket He appealed 
the audience to vote in favour of the candidates of Haryana Lok Samiti, 

In the last Pt Budh Dev was asked to give his Ashirvad as DADA ( greatest 
Pandit ) of Haryana He said he will give Ashirvad only if audience give him 
" Vachan " ( Pledge ) to vote for Lok Samiti candidates " People were asked to 
raise their hands towards sun and to remember şun on the day of Polling This 
is significant that Lok Samiti had chosen sun as a symbol for their candidates He 
warned those who go back from the pledge will be given to the highest Brahmin of 
Haryana will go to Hell, The meeting ended 


15 Summary of the Particulars of the meeting held on 4th February 1962 Anaj 

Mandt Rohtak , Rohtak Assembly Constituency in Rohtak Parliamentary 
Constituency . 

The meeting started with Piare Lal s Bhajan in praise of " Om Dha ” After 
this Bhajan he made a commentary on the importance of " Om Flag " . The second 
song was " HARYANA LOOT LIYA DHADI WALON NE " Piare Lal was followed 
by Ram Pat Banprasthi He gave u song criticising Congress Government for 
Cow Slaughter, 

Sh , Attar Singh Lok Samiti candidate from Salhawas Constituency asked 
Dhanaks and Balmıkies to refrain from voting Congress because congress 18 
enemy of these two castes " 

Ram Dharı Gaur candidate of Haryana Lok Samiti from Gohana Assembly 
constituency persuaded audience to vote Haryana Lok Samiti in order to liberate 
Haryana from Sikhs or Punjabi Region Sh Nafe Singh Samiti candidate from 
Rai Assembly Constituency started with a humerous story He asked to raise 
Haryana by voting Haryana Lok Samiti candidates and asked people to raise 
Om Flag higher and higher 
Ram Dharı Balmiki supported Attar Singh Dhanak and asked Balmıkies and 
Dhunak : to vote for Haryana Lok Samiti and to get congress defeated . As 
according to him Congress was enemy of these two castes 

Sh Badlu Ram criticised for imposing Gurmukhi on Haryana people and he 
asked audience to vote against congress So that Haryana Lok Samiti candidates 
were in position to remove Gurmukhi from Haryana 

Mahasha Bharat Singh who was candidate on Haryana Lok Samiti ticket from 
Rohtak assembly constitucncy thanked those who donated for his elections 

Sh Ram Sarup Khadwalı asked audience to vote for Haryana Lok Samiti 
because they were free to fight for Haryana where as Congress-men under 
discipline 

Sh Nanhu Ram , Sh Munı Ram Bagrı, Shri Devi Lal (MLA ) Swami Atma 
Nand and Prof Sher Singh emphasised on Haryana s meager share in Government 
services Swami Santosh Anand made highly provocativc speech He said Arya 
samaj fought always against " Papees " ( Irreligious elements ) It fought in 
Hyderabad against Nizam . It fought against Nawab of Loharu " Now it will 
Aght against Sikhs His sentence that he, who will vote for Congress will give 
his daughter to Sikhs, was height of his attempt to create hatered against Sikhs 
and thus refraining audience to vote against congress candidates 

Sh Jagdev Singh respondent No. 1 said that some time he remained Jullundur. 
" Punjabı Hindu think that Partap Singh Kairon who was the leader of Congress 
in Punjab was a better enemy of Hindus and Hinduism Let us liberate Haryana 
from Sikhs and the way is to defeat congress in election " 

In the last Pt Budh Dev was asked to give his Ashirvad as " Dada " ( greatest 
Pandit ) of Haryana, He said , " He will give Ashirvad only if audience give him 
" Vachan " to vote for Lok Samiti candidates People were asked to raise their 
hands towards sun and to remember sun on the day of polling This is significant 
that Lok Samiti had chosen Sun as symbol for their candidates He warned , 
" those who go back from the pledge given to the highest Brahman of Haiyana 
will go to Hell ” 

Verification - - I, Partap Singh Daulata , candidate for the election to the house 
of people from the Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency, do hereby solemnly verify 


Sec . B{ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1881 


Idos 


that the statements of fact made in all paragraphs in Schedule " D " are true to 
my knowledge through Satbir Singh Rana, B . A . son of Ch . Abhe Singh resident 
of Kundal, District Rohtak . 


Dated ; - 4 -1962. 
Place : Chandigarh . 


PARTAP SINGH DAULATA , 

Petitioner , 


SCHEDULE " E 


That Arya Samaj is a Dharmik body. It is an organised Church , Ils religious 
symbol is " OM DJIWAJ" i. e . Word OM in Sanskrit Lipi printed on red cloth . 
This religious symbol used in clertion matters by any candidate or by any political 
party . Respondeat No, I and his agents violated this dictate of law in the 
following manners : 


( i) In all public meetings held by or arranged by respondent No . I and his 

agents OM DHWAJ was displayed in large number on stages and 
Pandals . 


(ii ) The candidate and his supporters fixed OM DHWAJ to their cars and 

jeeps during election campaign . 


( iii ) The supporters of the Lok Samiti fixed OM Flags on election offices and 

their houses . Sometimes more than on thousand Hags could be 
seen in one village. Workers of Lok Samiti on cycles and on foot 
carried Om Flags with them and asked people to vote for this Om 
Flag and Arya Samaj. Every meeting was started and closed with 
a song by Pyare Lal Bhajnik , asking the people to keep Daya Nand s 
flag high and up . First headline of the song was " JHANDA PIARA 
OM KA SADA RAHEGA UNCHA " , i. e. Our beloved Om Flag will go 
higher and higher . 


( iv ) On 24th February 1962 when polling was going on , on the booth of 

respondent No. I and on those of his colleagues in Assembly Consti 
tuencies Om Flag was abundantly displayed to show the people that 
their booth were the booths of Dharma. 


Verification . - I, Partap Singh Daulata , candidate for the election to the House 
of the People from the Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency, do hereby solemnly 
verify that the statements of facts contained in various paragraphs of Schedule 
" E " are true to my knowledge . 


Dated : 6 - 4 -82. 
Place : Chandigarh . 


PARTAP SINGA DAULATA , 

Petitioner. 
[No. 82 /42 /62.] 


New Delhi, the 4th May 1982 


S . O . 1375 . In pursuance of the provisions of suh - section ( 1 ) of section 86 of 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the Election Commission hercby 
publishes a copy of the Election Petition No. 221 of 1962, presented to the Com 
mission on the 12th April, 1962, under section 81 of the said Act, by Shri Prabhu 
Narain Singh , son of late Shri Pratap Narain Singh , resident of Ck , 82 / 77 , 
Kashipura, Varanasi, calling in question the election to the House of the People 
from the Chandauli constituency of that House of Shri Bal Krishna Singh , son 
of Shri Arjun Singh , village Akorha Kalan , Pargana Majhwar , District Varapagi. 


1606 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


(Part 1) 


4 


Sd . / - BAKHTYAR , HUSAIN , Presented to me by Shri Bakhtyar Husain 

Signature attested . who has been duly authorised by the petitioner 
Sd . / - K . K . Serir, to present this petition and whose signature has 

12 - 4 - 62, been obtained in the margin and attested as hav 
Under Secretary , ing been signed before me this the twelfth of 
Election Commission , India . April one thousand nine hundred and sixty 

two. 


Sd ./ - K , K , SETHI, 

12 - 4 -62, 

Under Secretary , 
Election Commission , India . 


TO 


THE ELECTION COMMISSIONER OF INDIA , NEW DELHI 

ELECTION PETTIION No. 221 OF 1962 
Prabhu Narain Singh a Candidate for Election to the House of People from 
53 Chandauli, Varanasi District, son of late Pratap Narain Singh , age 45 yrs, r / o 
Ck . 62 / 77 Kashipura, Varanasi 


Vs. 


1 . Sri Bal Krishna Singh so, Arjun Singh , village 1 
Akorha Kalan , Pargana Majhwar, District Varanasi. 

The contesting candidate 
2. Sri Moti Ram slo Sri Raghunandan , village 

of the Lok Sabha other 
Rinauta , Pargana Hajhwar, Varanasi. 

than the petitioner , 
3 . Sri Harihar s / o Rambadan Singh , village Bhur 
kura , Pargana Kera, Varanasi , 

. . . . .. . . . Respondent, 
Election petition of Sri Prabhu Narain Singh and others under section 81 of 
the Representation of the peoples Act of 1951 and rules made under the said 
Act. 


The petitioner begs to state as follows: 


( 1 ) That the petitioner was a candidate for election to the House of People 
from the Chandauli constituency 53 Parliament in the District of Varanasi which 
was held on 19th , 21st and 23rd of February, 1962 , 


( 2 ) That the petitioner was a sitting member of Parliament having defeated 
the Congress Candidate , Pt. Jagat Narain Dube in the by Election last. 


( 3 ) That besides the petitioner there were three more candidatcs cxcluding 
the petitioner for clection who have been shown as respondent No. 1, 2 and 3 as 
party in this petition . 


( 4 ) That the respondent No . 1 was a Congress nominęc who along with the 
candidates of assembly constituencies namcly Pt. Kamlapati Tripathi, Shree 
Shyam Lal Yadav , Shree Ram Lakhan , Shree Raj Narain Singh and Shree Himmat 
Bahadur Singh were sponsored as Congress candidates in the Assembly 
constituency , within the 53 Chandauli Parliamentary constituency , who were 
acting as agents of the respondent No . 1 for election purposes for and on behalf 
of the Congress Political Party . 


( 4 ) ( a ) That the persons named below were persons who acted as Returning 
Oficer of the State Assembly Constituencies of Chakia , Chandauli , Muhaich and 
Kutchar, and who were actively helping the Congress candidates as also against 
the petitioners and they are also guilty of corrupt practices and they conducted 
thcmsclves with partjality against the petitioner for the furtherance of the Elec 
tion and prospects of the Congress Candidates , Respondent No. 1 in the constitu 
ency as such they have violated the provisions of Sections 129 , 134 , and 135 of 
the R . P . Act. The Returning Officers referred to above are ( 1 ) Shree Jwala 
Prasad R . O . of Chakia , (2 M . C . Jain R . O . Mahaich and Chandauli, ( 3 ) S . C . 
Dixit, R . O , Katehar , 


Sķo . (41)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


1607 


NO. peabhu 
- 17,235 230,074 . 


( 5 ) That the result of the Election was declared on the 28th of February 
1962 by the District Magistrate at 12 - 10 P . M . as Returning Officer of the Chan 
dauli Lok Sabha u / r 64 showing the result of the counting as below : - - 

1. Respondent No. 1 Bal Krishna 85117 . 
2 . Respondent No. 2 Moti Ram 44390 . 
3 . Petitioner No. 1 Prabhu Narain Singh 83, 332, 
4 . Respondent No. 3 Harihar 17 , 235 . 

Total No. of Valid Votes Pollud , 230 ,074 . 
Total No. of rejected votes 11,097. 
Total No. of Tender votes not mentioned , 
Total No . /Voters on the rolls of the Chandauli Lok Sabha Constituency 

were as follows: 
( 1 ) 84445 (Mahich ) ( 2 ) 84525 (Moghul Sarai) ( 3 ) 78476 (Chakia ) 

( 4 ) 92030 Katehar (5 ) 82862 Chandauli and accordingly . 
i.e . total of 4 ,22, 338 Respondent No. 1 was declared to be elected from the 

said constituency and accordingly a certificate was issued to the res 
pondent No. 1 on the 28th of February , 1962, as required under 60 
of the Election Rules . 


( 6 ) That the aforesaid elcction was not a free and a fair election by reason 
of corrupt and illegal practices as defined u / s 123 ( 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 ) and also u / s 
125 of the R . P , Act, 1951 and in utter disregard of the Election Law and rules 
and with material irregolarity which extensively prevailed at the aforesaid elec 
tion in the constituency as hereinafter stated , which materially affected the result 
of the Election . 

( 7 ) That a concisc statement of the material facts on which the petitioners 
relies are as follows: 
( a ) That corrupt practices by the respondent No . 1 through his agent in 

election who were candidates in the assembly constituency also by 
conveyance of electors in hire and procured vehiclcs to and from 
polling stations details of which are given in Schedule 1 within the 

meaning of sec. 123 ( 5 ) . 
( b ) That the respondent No. 1 has incurred expenditures in contravention 

of sec. 77 of the R . P . Act. 
( 8 ) That the corrupt practices specified in section 123 of thc R . P . Act, have 
been committed by the returned candidate respondent No. 1 and the election of 
the said candidate is void . Particulars of the corrupt practices resorted to are 
given in detail in the following sub -paragraphs and the Schedules attached with 
this petition on the basis of information already available . The petitioners crave 
leave to add to these particulars at a later date , if and , when all the election 
papers are examined . 

( 8 ) ( i) That most of the teachers of Primary and Middle School, Patwaris 
and employees and staff of the Antarim Zila Parishad Varanasi, wer appointed 
as Polling personals , cspecially , the village teachers who were deputed as Polling 
personals in his own village at Polling stations in which the said teacher were 
teaching against the rules thereunder , they influcnced their respective village 
voters in favour of respondent No , I who is an influential member of the Antarim 
Zila Parishad , Varanasi and was connected with the educational establishment 
of the Parishad . 

(ii) That the employees of the institutions who were appointed as Polling 
Officers were either members of the Congress Party Or they professed marked 
Political leaning towards Congress Candidates as against the petitioner . A list 
of such polling prsonals are given in Schedule showing their names and their 
employment with their other details particularly in the Chandauli assembly 
constituency . 

( 8 ) ( 2 ) That Shree Pt. Kamlapati Tripathiji was the Education Minister and 
as such he exercised great influence over the principles of education institutions 
in all the assembly constituencies under 53 Chandauli, And , he influenced them 
to exercicn their pressure unon the voters to vote for the respondent No. 1, to 
the exclusion of the petitioner , 

( 8 ) ( 3 ) That School teachers worked as Canvassers for respondent No, 1 and 
his partics, in the Villages in the Constitucncy , and also they helped the respond 
ent No. 1, when they served as Oficial Polling Clerks to do various duties at the 


1608 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 / VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


PART II 


Polling Stations on the Polling days. A very large number of Official Polling 
Clerks in this constituency who were drawn from the District Board School 
indulged in all sorts of malpractices to help the respondent No. 1. Their list is 
included in the Schedule . 

( 9 ) That thc corrupt practices mentioned above had materially affected the 
result of the election in this constituency . 

( 10 ) That the result of the Election has been materially affect: d by non - com 
pliance with the Provisions of R . P . Act and rules , particulars of which as far 
as available , are given below . 

( a ) The Polling Omcial parties for Chakia Chandauli, and Mahaich Constitu 
encies in the Lok Sabha consist - d of personals having a leaning towards res 
pondent No. 1 and his party , who were the Congress Candidates of the said 
Conytituencies and the appointed Polling Parties violated the provisions of sec 
tions 125 and 134 of the R . P . Act and rules and instructions issued thereunder , 

( b ) That, in furtherance and with the object of helping of the election of the 
respondent No. 1 , the distribution of ballot papers to different polling stations of 
the constituencies wure totally inadequate and short of the number of the regis 
tered voters attached to thosc polling station ; with the result that a large number 
of voters could not exercise their franchise to vote , and wer : not supplied with 
ballot papers on account of shortage. Instances of this nature were complained 
of in Polling No. 80 and 81 Shahpur in particular and also at several other 
Polling Station detailed horcinafter in the petition . 


( 11 ) That voters totalling to about 4000 were ordered to be included in the 
roll and when they went to exercise their vote at their polling station they were 
returned on the plea that the amended roll was not received by their respective 
presiding Officers and thus a vast number of voters were not permitted to exer 
cise their franchise to vote . The above non - compliance with the R . P . Act and 
rules , was possible only by the concerted action of the returning Officer of Chakia , 
Chandauli, Mahaich and Katchar to which stations the votes belonged . 

( 12 ) That many of the polling stations particularly at Chakia , Chandauli, and 
Mahaich Ballot papers for the Lok Sabha were not given at all to ignorant voters , 
who were told to go away after casting their vote for the assembly , as their vote 
were cast and when they had left the Polling booths their ballot papers for the 
House of People were issued were either left blank or marked for respondent No. 
1 by the Presiding Othcer himself or through Polling Officers supporting the res 
pondent no . 1 , Polling Stations where this was done are glven in this petition 
particularly at 51, 52, and 53 Polling Stations in Mahaich constituency. 

( 13 ) That Ballot papers of absent and dead voters were issued and marked by 
the Polling Officers in favour of respondent No . 1 and put in the ballot box , 

( 14 ) That the Ballot Papers account in form No. 16 kept by the Presiding 
Officers were totally wrong and against the instructions, they disclosed serious 
lack of duty so that no proper check of ballot papers received , or used , can be 
properly made and in several polling stations these accounts , when compared with 
the returns of the returning officers, several discrepencies and mistakes are found. 
which fully establish the wrong counting made, against the counting instructions 
and rules . This resulted in iniscount, specific instances of Polling Station are given 
hereafter . 

( 15 ) That all the irregularities and illegalities were made possible by not making 
proper arrangements for counting and no eflective supervision were allowed to 
be made, in as such as no reasonable ratio , between the number of counting assis 
tants employed and candidate s counting agents , were allowed although under the 
rules, 16 counting Agents were permissible for the 16 counting tables for parlia 
mentary constitucncy, but the number of counting agents of the petitioner was 
curtailed and reduced to 5 instead of at least 12 permissible under rule 52 read 
with section 47 of the R . P . Act 1951. 

( 18 ) That form No. 21 u / r 45 of the Election Rules, has not been Alled in as 
prescribed , and similarly form Nos. 20 and 21 under rules 57 and 64 are also 
incomplete, as the total number of tender votes have not been shown either 
in form No . 20 or 21 , which should have been taken from form No. 16 ; thus the 
whole counting is incomplete in several respects to justify recount and scrutiny, 

( 17 ) That at the time of close of the counting in the 53 Chandauli Parlia 
mentary Constituency , in its assembly constituencies, objection was made to the 
assistant Returning Officers particularly to C . D . O . Chandauli, and Mahaich Shri 


Sec . S(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962/ VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1609 


M . C . Jain and also Ş . D . O . Katehar and Chakia i.e . to Mr. S . C . Dikshit and Shri 
Jwala Pd . for recount, but they returned back the application , by saying that only 
the District Magistrate as Returning Omcer of the Parliamentary Constituency can 
make an order for recount u / r 63 of th - Election rules ; where upon the Petitioner 
made such an application to the District Magistrate as Returning Omcer, on the 
28th of February 1962 in writing , before any return in form 20 or 21 was prepared , 
but the Returning Officer , wrongfully rejected the application although he was 
informed that the Election Commission has likewise , been applied for , recount, 
simultaneously . 

( 18 ) That the District Magistrate although has passed an order refusing re 
count, the same has not been delivered or any copy issued to the petitioner in spite 
of a proper application therefor . The order is clearly unjustified , and beyond the 
scope of the Returning Officer and the same could not have been rejected , under 
the rule , 

( 19 ) That for the facts and reasons stated below the result of the clection , in 
so far as it concerns the returned candidate 2 .e , respondent No . 1, has been 
materially affected by the improper reception , refusal and rejection of a vast 
number of votes, which were void and in fact the petitioner has received a 
majority of valid votes in the clection and that but for the votes obtained by 
the respondent No. 1 by corrupt practices , the petitioner would have obtained a 
vast majority of valid votes over those polled by the respondent No. 1 and the 
election of the respondent No . 1 is liable to be declared void and the petitioner 
is entitled to have been duly elected . 

( 20 ) That the provision of rule 93 of the Conduct of Election Rules 1961 relating 
to the production and inspection of election papers were not 
complied with , which is clear from the fact that when the petitioners 
applied for inspection of account and other papers connected with 
the election on 23rd March 62 before the Returning Officer , Varanasi and it be 
came known that the petitioner was Aling an election petition , the local authori 
ties and the respective assembly officers in the parliamentary election consti 
tuency of the petitioner got alarmcd , and they began to put all sorts of obstruc 
tions in the way of getting proper inspection by the petitioner and the return 
ing officers concerned are believed to have employed various means and ways 
to impede and obstruct the inspection by the petitioner by mishandling and re 
handling bundles of election papers behind the back of the petitioner which will 
bo evident from the check of the seals of the bundles which previously had borne 
the signatures of the candidates agents , which has now disappeared . All this 
was committed by the returning officers concerned without any authority fron ) 
a competent court or a tribunal, in direct breach of rule 93 of the conduct of 
election rules . Several complaints regarding the conduct of the returning 
officers concerned were made both to the D . M , as returning officer of the Parlia 
mentary constituency , and also to the Election Commissioner particularly on the 
following dates 29, 30 , and 31 mark , 1962, 3 - 4 -62, 4 -4 -62 and 5 - 4 -62. As a result 
of which the petitioners have not been able to get proper inspection . The details 
given in the petition have been given as far as possible in the peculiar circum 
stances of the case . 

(21 ) That the Returning Omcer of the Parliamentary Constituenry , before 
declaration of the result failed to give due consideration to the grounās praying 
for recount under rule 63 of the Conduct of Election Rules , namely , about the 
wrong procedure adopted and wrong counting made in the constituencies under the 
parliamentary constituency specially by the Returning Officer Mr. M , C . Jain , Shri 
Jawala Pd ., Mr. S . C . Dikshit , the Asstt. Returning Officer in the constituencies of 
Chandauli, Mahaich Chakia and Katehar l.e . the counting of which were made at 
Chakla , in the soldiers board , and in the Antarim Zila Parishad and in the Collec 
torate compound and vicinity . 

( 22 ) That the interested counting assistants have as a matter of fact included 
the ballot papers of other candidates in the bundle of ballot papers of Congress 
Candidate respondent No. 1, and thus swelled its numbers . These bundles were 
not permitted to be looked into and could not he checked by the petitioner s agent 
on the plea that they are not permissible to be checked by the candidate or the 
counting agents . 

( 23 ) That thousands of ballot papers , amongst the cleven thousands rejected 
ballot papers in the parliamentary constituency , were found to have been marked 
on the back side of the ballot paper , because the symbols appear clearly on the 
back side as well, and the symbol of the petitioner was marked by the votere with 
stamps on the back side of the ballot paper thereby clearly Indicating the intention 


1610 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/ VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


[PART II. 


of the yoters to cast their vote in favour of the petitioner and there was not the 
slightest doubt about the vote having been cast for the petitioner. 


( 24 ) That on a proper scrutiny and recount of the ballot papers both counted as 
valid and also rejected as invalid , in accordance with rules 56 and 39 of the Conduct 
of Election Rules , not less than six thousands ballot papers amongst the rejected 
ballot papers will be found to have been cast for the petitioner and they are good 
and valid votes for the petitioner and they could not have been rejected in any 
case or treated as a vote recorded on a ballot paper liable to be rejected or to make 
it doubtful to which candidate the vote has been given . In any case counting instruc 
tions contrary to the provisions of the Election Futes 39 and 56 can have no effect . 
The confusion in counting was mainly caus: d on account of not permitting 16 
counting agents as prescribed in rule 52 of the election rule read with section 47 
of the E . P . Act as referred to before in this petition . 

( 25 ) That several hundred of ballot papers issued by Presiding Officers in the 
constituency were wrongfully rejected although the votes recorded thercon were in 
l avour of the petitioner without assigning any valid ground. Such ballot papers 
were in the nature of incorrect printing of the symbol of the communist candidate 
Hari Har, whose symbol of ear of corn was not printed and a star was wrongly 
printed instead on account of this the vote cast in favour of petitioner No. 1 upon 
he tree symbol on the ballot were not counted for him and the baliot paner was 
wrongly rejected . Such ballot papers numbered more than one hundred at one of 
the several polling stations. The exact number can be ascertained after inspection 
of Ballot Papers , 

( 26 ) That a number of complaints about counting were brought to the notice 
of Shri M , C . Jain the Returning Officer of Mahaich and Chandaull and Sri Jawala 
Prasad Srivastava for Chakla and Sri S . C . Dikshit for Katehar , but they expressed 
their inability to accept the complaint which should be submitted to the District 
Magistrate as Returning Omcer of the Parliamentary constituency . The Returning 
Officers referred to above failed to exercise their independant and impartial judge 
ment on account of their questionable alliance or leanings with the Congress 
Candidates of the respective constituencies particularly from Chandaull who 
happened to be the ex -Minister of the State of U . P . 

( 27 ) That the confusion in counting will be abundantly clear from the follow 
ing , wherein the discrlpancies and mistakes in the ballot paper account of the Presid 
ing Officers , as compared with those of the Returning Officers result of count, have 
been clearly brought out. 


" A KATEHAR CONSTITUENCY 
( 1 ) At Polling Station No. 6 Dan , Ganj. 
The Serial No. of Ballot Papers received was 229726 to 231377 – 1852. 
Serial No. of Ballot Papers issued to voters t. e. 229726 to 231178 — 1452. 

While in the Returning Omcers result of counting has been shown cnly 452 . 
It is not understandable how these 1000 ballots recelved and issued to voters 
have been accounted for. It is suspected that these 1, 000 ballot papers were mark 
cd for the petitioner and have been done away with and the accounts has been 
made up for 452 only . 

( 2 ) At Polling Station No. 16 Bhopapur, the Ballot paper account of the Pre 
siding Officer differs from the result of counting given by the Returning Officer . 

( 3 ) At Polling Station No. 19 Ayare Higher Secondary Schools, the ballot 
paper account shown does not tally with the ballot papers actually received and 
similarly ballot papers returned show a difference of not less than 6 or 3 votes which 
are not counted in the number of serials of ballot papers issued . Thus the Ballot 
papers alleged to have been used by voters is in fact , in excess of 557 shown by 
the Presiding Oncer and returning officer . The whole account is A falsel - made 
up one and imaginary . That at this polling station secrecy was violated by the 
presiding officer and he himself used to cross stamp marks on the ballot papers 
and not done by the voters. More than a hundred ballot papers were thus cross 
stamped hy the Presiding Officer and when he was detected in this nefarious and 
wrongful work , he was made to note the fact of marking at least 55 ballot papers 
whose numbers are 247747 to 247801. All this was highly objectionable and 
seriously illegal and the said corrupt practice and non - compliance with the pro 
visions and rules regarding elections extensively adopted other polling stations 
also materially effected the result of the election of the returned candidate which 
is vold . 


Şec , 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1611 


( 4 ) At Polling Station No . 18 Shri H . C . Singh the Presiding Officer com 
mitted all these ilegal acts to favour the Congress Candidate who was his Intimate , 
having secret alliance with them to safeguard his temporary encumbent. 

( 5 ) At Polling Station No. 19 , Ayara High r Secondary School, the Serial No. 
of Ballot papers received at this Polling Station bears serial numbers from 248300 
to 249000 which a total of 701 but the Presiding Officer shows only 649 ballot 
papers to have been received . The excess of 52 ballot papers remains unexplain 
ed . Either the Presiding Omcer has uttlised them for the candidate of his choice 
l.e . in favour of respondent No . 1, or have wrongfully got them cast elsewhere which 
can only be ascertained after counting , checking and comparing the ballot papers 
polled in all the 5 constituencies , and see if the said serial numbers are found 
there. Besides , the serial numbers of ballot papers riot used has been shown to 
be from 24700 to 24900 which series has not been received at this polling station 
by the Presiding Oncer . Further the serial No. of ballot papers issued to voters 
has been noted to be from 2448.300 to 24599 that is begining from 7 digits and 
ending with 5 digits which appears to be absurd and cannot yield 395 as the total 
No. All this appears to be result of premeditation designed and to fraudulently 
concealed the actual state of affairs and the mystery can be revealed only on the 
secrutiny and accounting of the ballot papers . It is relevant to note that 6 ballot 
papers have been cancelled which appears to be of the series of ballot papers re 
ceived while the ballot papers isşued to voters and those not used do not belong 
to the series of the ballot papers received at this polling station . All this goat 
maal is the result of concerted action of the Congress Candidates in this con 
stituency and the Polling staff who appears to have been selected by the return 
ing oficer to fulfil the wishes of the respondent No . 1 and his supporters . The 
polling group at this polling station was admittedly in unholy alliance with the Con 
gress Candidates as , the same kind of gross negligence is found at polling station 
No. 19 in Mughal Şarai Constituency where the same polling party was deputed 
on 21 - 2 - 1962 . 

(6 ) In Polling Station No. 22 Shiy Rampur, the ballot paper account show 
that 1323 ballot papers were received contained in the serlal numbers of ballot 
papers received from serial numbers 251275 to 252421 and 251801 to 251849 and 
252003 to 252129 while ballot papers not used are from 252219 to 252421 i. e . 203 
leaving the number of ballot papers issued to voters numbering 1120 while the 
account of the returning officer showing total No. of ballot papers round in box is 
given as 512 this leaves 608 ballot papers unaccount for in this polling station . 
Either they have been done away with in favour of the candidate for their choice to 
the prejudice of the petitioner or disposed of according to their sweet will, 

( 7 ) At Polling Station No. 23 the serial number of ballot papers have not been 
glven so as to detect the dlsposal of 145 ballot papers wrongly shown to be missing. 

( 8 ) At Polling Station No. 25 Palhi Patti, the ballot papers actually received 
from serial No . 254218 to 255066 i.e . 849 but it has been wrongly shown to be 720 
and does not account for 129 of the ballot papers received and further the ballot 
papers issued to voters by serial No . from 254218 to 254696 and 255066 which when 
counted means 480 ballot papers this account when compared by the result of 
counting by the returning officer shows that there are 81 ballot papers short at 
the counting . This too is a clear indication of the fact that at this polling also as 
at several other polling stations hallot papers have been misused , mishandled 
and utilised for thc benefit of respondent No. 1 or for any other candidate of the 
choice of the returning officer or of the Presiding omcer s Party . The polling 
parties under the returning officer have been clearly guilty of partiality favouritism 
to make a free and fare clection Impossible . 


( 9 ) At Polling Station No . 26. Luskerpur Primary School the same thing has 
happened as at Polling Station No . 25 i,e , from the serials of the ballot papers re 
ceived from 255067 to 256101, 255085 to 255099 and 255399, 255515 and 256082 to 
256099 the total number of ballot papers received comes to 1070 as against 1000 
wrongly shown while the total number of ballot papers issued to voters should be 
650 which we got after deducting 420 from 1070, The result of counting given by 
the rcturning ofcer is only 577 . Thus 73 ballot papers remain unaccounted for in 
this poll. If they were cast for the petitioner they may have been destroyed which 
is most probable in view of the conduct of the presiding officer exhibited in most 
of the polling stations in these constituencies. 


( 10 ) At Polling Station No. 27 Laksharput also ballot papers received from 
Serial No. 256102 to 257197 give a total of 1,099 as against 918 wrongly shown . This 
excess of ballot papers numbering to 178 remain unaccounted for and must have 


1612 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 , VAIJAKIIA 22, 1884 


[Part II 


been destroyed by the Presiding Officer as they were cast for the petitioner . Besides 
at this poll It appears that some series for 258020 have been received as It disclosed 
in the serial numbers noted for issued to voters and also others not used but these 
serials have not been mcntioned in the serial number received . Thus the whole 
counting and the ballot papers account have been a juglery and a mistery created 
by the presiding officer and the returning ofiicor in this polling station . 

(11) Similarly at Polling Station No . 19 Kahada Primary School serial numbers 
of ballot papers received by the Presiding Officer is from 257898 to 258000 and 
259001 to 259608 1. 2 . a total of 700 ballot papers out of which ballot papers issued 
to voters are numbered 257900 to 258000 and 259001 to 259488 which totals to 578 
but in the return 100 ballot papers have been shown less by the Returning Omeer 
us a result of counting. The returning officer or the Presiding Omcer appears to be 
done away with the 100 ballot papers which are issued to the voters were cast by the 
voters in favour of petitioner, 

( 12 ) At Polling Station No. 31 the Presiding Officer s account when compared 
with that of the Returning Officer s shows a deficit of one ballot paper . 

( 13 ) At Polling Station No . 33 Bablyaw Primary School the serial numbers of 
ballot papers have been purposely omitted by the Presiding Omcer to avoid a 
detection of the Irregularity and illegality committed by him at the polling statlon 
so that no check can be made regarding yalld votes cast at the polling station , 
Shri Hari Nath Lal is Asstt . Master Government Inter College Jakhini whose 
appointment to the post was due to the mercy of the Congress Candidate of the 
constituency where Jakhini is situate . 

( 14 ) At Polling Station No. 34 a comparison of the Presiding Odcer s account 
and the result of the returning officer shows a difference of one hallot paper . 

( 15 ) At Polling Station No . 38 Tari Primary School from the serial numbers of 
the ballot papers ręcelved the total comes to 855 and 791 as wrongly shown and 
on detecting the number of ballot papers not used i. e . 280 the total number of 
ballot papers issued to voters comes to 572 . The result of the counting by the 
returning officer shows 511 as found in ballot box . The Presiding Omcer there 
fore , as has been usual in this contituency must have spoiled 62 ballot papers 
which were presumbly cast in favour of the petitioner . 

( 16 ) At Polling No. 38 Cholapur Junior High School on checking the Presiding 
officer s hallot papers account it is found that ballot papers not used of the said 
poll has been inflated and shown to be 376 but it should be 276 thus the number 
of ballot papers issued to voters comes to 725 and not 612 in this aspect 100 ballot 
papers have been unaccounted for at this Station . In this Station the Presiding 
Oficer has been illegally not issuing Loksabha Ballot Papers to the voters for 
their marking and he used to return the voters after the cast of the Assembly 
vote and thereafter used the blank ballot of the Loksabha to the advantage of the 
Congress Candidate by marking cross stamp in favour of the Congress Candidate . 
This is borne out hy the detection and the complaint hy one yoter Budia who was 
not given any ballot paper for Loksabha and on her hew and cry she was supplied 
with the Loksabha Ballot Paper which was treated as tender ballot paper . After 
this complaint the Polling personales are reported to have been changed . This 
serious discrepancy is fully supported by the result of counting of Shri S . C . Dikshit 
the Returning Officer of the constituency as also from the Presiding Officer s 
diary as well as the complaints made at this poll. 

( 17 ) At polling station No , 39 Gosalpur Primary School there is difference of 
at least one vote between ballot paper account of the Presiding Officer and the 
result of the Returning Officer . 

( 18 ) At polling station No. 40 Gosalpur Primary School on a check of the figures 
noted by the Presiding Omcer in his ballot papers account we find that the ballot 
papers issued to voters according to the serial number given should be 628 while 
the Presiding Officer has shown 625 thus 6 ballot papers remains unaccounted 
for by comparison of the Presiding Officer s account and that of the Returning 
Omcer 


( 19 ) At polling station No . 42 Imlia Primary School three ballot papers remains 
uparcounted for when compared with the account of the Presiding Omcer and the 
Returning Officer . 


100 ) At Polling Station No 44 Chhanht Primary School it appears that the 
Ballot Papery should be 609 as received instead of 704 which those issued to voters 


Sec . 8( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKTIA 22. 1884 


1613 


comes to 478 thus a comparison between the Presiding Oncer s Account and 
that of the Returning Omcer there is a difference of 100 votes found in excess in 
the ballot box . This is a very serious matter and establishes the corrupt inten 
tions and work of the polling party in collusion with the Returning Omcer Shri 
S . C . Dikshit . 

(21) At Polling Station No. 13 Umraha Primary School the Presiding Officer s 
account is totally a faked up account as no check can be made from the figures 
given in the ballot papers account as their serial numbers given cannot be checked . 
This is clear from the s. no. of ballot papers given in the account. 

(29 ) At Polling Station No. 46 Umraha Primary School the practic of giving 
the Assembly ballot paper to the voters and with -holding the Loksabha ballot 
papers by the Presiding Omcer at this place also has been prevalent as has been 
mentioned hereinbefore in certain polling stations, At this Polling Station one 
Mr. Ram Bans son of Akshaibar of village Mohandaspur elector at Roll No . 67 
reported that on demand of the second ballot paper for Loksabha which was not 
given before was refused and upon Ailing the complaint in writing by him the 
Presiding Officer very reluctantly issued one and it is believed that this Polling 
Officer has been doing this nefarious work since the beginning of Poll. The 
accounts given by him of the ballot papers are faked up as will appear from the 
Ballot paper accounts for not used and those issued to voters . A scrutiny of the 
Ballot Papers after inspection with thn announts of this Presiding Ofcer will reveal 
that the ballot papers serial number has been shown to have been issued to voters 
and the same numbers have been shown as not used thus there is a make up of 
154 ballot papers which remains unexplained . 

( 23) At Polling Station No . 47 Primary School Umraha, the Returning Officer 
Mr. Dikshit has clearly favoured the respondent No. 1 by adding one hundred votes 
to respondent No. 1 and this establishes the Returning Officer s leaning and mental 
dishonesty for the candidate of his choice . The result of the counting for respon 
dent no. 1 should have been 272 but the Returning Omcer has given a grace of 
100 votes to him and shown 372 as valld votes cast for respondent no . 1. This is 
highly objectionable and the Returning Officer is guilty under section 129 and 
134 of the Representation of People Act under which he is liable to be punished 
considering all the circumstances and his conduct in the election of this constitu 
ency . 

(24 ) At Polling Station No. 52 Rauna Khurd Primary School the Presiding 
Omcer s Ballot Account show that he artually received 540 ballot papers and 
returned not used only 275 ballot papers and those issued to voters comes to 265 
while the Returning Omcer s Counting Result shows that 524 ballot papers were 
found in the ballot box thus the excess ballot papers found in the ballot box riun 
bering 259 establishes a serious charge against the Returning Officer Shri S . L 
Dikshit in inflating the ballot box with extra ballot papers . It also appears that 
the Presiding omcer prepared a totally imaginary account of ballot papers show 
ing the receipt of 799 ballot papers as against 540 resulting from the serial number 
of ballot papers given by him . The Presiding Officer at this place was Shri J . P . 
Chaturvedl who is A . D . I. O , ( Information ) (Department ) under Shri Kamla Pati 
Tripathi the formal Information Minister of the State who is also a congress 
Candidate from Chandauli Assembly constituency. This clearly establishes the 
currents and under current and alliances between the Assembly candidate and the 
respondent No . 1 with the Polling Parties employed in this constituency as engi 
necred by the Returning Officer Shri Dikshit. 

( 25 ) At Polling Station No. 53 Rauna Khurd the Returning Oficer Shri S . C . 
Dikshit has visited this place and hud been encouraging the Presiding Officer to 
favour the Congress Candidate as has been reported by the Polling Agents at this 
place where all the Congress Candidates were influencing the polling parties for 
the Congress. 

( 26 ) At Polling Station No. 57 Aigara Primary School the Presiding Officer 
Shri Rajendra Narain Lal docs not give the serial number of the Ballot Papers 
not used or the ballot papers issued to the voters or the hallot papers cancelled 
to avoid checking and the mere figures of total number of ballots under those 
heads show that the ballot papers issued to voters should be 637 and not 486 
therefore a result of counting showing the ballot papers found in the box to be 
686 is totally wrong and does not explain from where 49 ballot papers have been 
imported in the box . 

( 27 ) At Pollint Station No. 62 Mharari Junior High School it is disclosed in 
the Presiding Officer s diary that 35 ballot papers from 288131 to 285165 to belong 


T614 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA MAY 12 , 1962 /VAIZAKHA 22, 1884 


{ PART II 


to some other constituency in the Lok Sabha and the ballot papers within those 
numbers or others in the series that were cast at this Poll should not have been 
counted at the counting and they should have been rejected by the Returning 
Officer Shri Dikshit which he has not done in contravention to his duty as a 
recurning officer and he is guilty under sections 129 and 134 for breach of his 
oficial duty . 

( 28 ) At Polling Station No 72 Chandravati Private School the ballot account 
does not give any account for ballot paper no 294272 and thus return has been 
very negligently prepared . 

( 29 ) At Polling Station No 81 Shahpur Primary School on account of shortage 
of ballot papers the polling was suspended for three hours as mentioned herein 
after in this pctition on account of less supply of ballot papers by the Returning 
Officer in violation to instructions of the election commission It may be clearly 
stated that a Polling Station No 81 Shahpur Primary School the total number of 
Electors on the roll are about 1200 The returning officer supplied only 400 ballot 
papers at the polling station in direct violation to instructions for supply of ballot 
papers equal to the number of voters alloted to a particular polling station Thus 
at the said polling station the 400 ballot papers were exhausted by mid day and 
the parliamentary casting of votes was suspended for about three hours during 
which time hundreds of votes of petitioner melted away and could not cast their 
votes for want of hallot papers for the parliament Complaint was made with 
the presiding officer to that effect and voters as many as 200 had to go away with 
out casting their parliamentary votes It is worthy to note that Sri Dixit the 
ieturning officer refused the inspection of the preriding officer s diary of this 
Polling Station to conceal his lapse of duty . 

( 30 ) At Polling Station No 82 Primary School Narainpur two ballot papers 
nos 987924 and 387925 have not been accounted for by the Presiding Officer 

(31) At Polling Station No 94 Barhanpura Primary School the Presiding 
Omcer does not account for 100 ballot papers which appear to have been misused 
by him and he has shown only 700 ballot papers as receipt A note by the 
Presiding Officer to the effect that 100 ballot papers have been handed over to 
Sector Magistrate cannot be sustained and may be a lame excuse to make up 
the accounty particularly for the reason that when the ballot papers are supplied 
to a Presiding Olicer it is his duty to at once note them down in form no 16 
which is completed later at the close of the Poll 


" B " CHANDAULI CONSTITUENCY 
( 1 ) At Polling Station No 1 R Primary School the ballot papers account 
given by the Presiding Omcer has been shown to be 691 while the serial numbers 
of ballot papers received from 144001 to 144733 which works 731 similarly the 
ballot papers issued to voters when worked out from serial numbers 144001 to 
144592 works out 592 and not 550 the result of counting given by the returning 
officer Shri M C Jain is only 551 and it is not knowable how the Returning Omcer 
has done away with 41 ballot papers 

( 2 ) At Polling Station No. 2 Khurja Primary School the ballot pupers received 
has been shown to be short by 6 ballot which cannot be explained as to how those 
6 ballot has been disposed oft when they have been issued to voters and not account 
ed for 

( 3 ) At Polling Station No 7 Darbeshpur the actual hallot papers were received 
are actually number 871 while the serial of ballot papeis not used and those of 
ballot papers issued to voters are given in serials numbers 447 to 678 and 6 . 2 to 
440 which are totally unintelligible and these serials have not been shown in the 
ballot papers received The whole returned appears to have been based upon 
imaginary calculations and serial numbers The Presiding Omccr of this place 
have very negligently done his duty and is guilty of breach of official duty in 
connection with election under section 134 RP Act 

( 4 ) At Polling Station No 8 Primary School Chandauli the Presiding Officer 
has failed to give the serial numbers of ballot papers not used or issued to voters 
making a check of the Ballot Papers impossible and the Presiding Officer concerned 
is guilty under section 134 of the R Þ Act 


( 5 ) At Polling Station No 12 JHS Chandauli the serial number 153533 
appears in three places in the accounts ze for ballot papers not used and for 
ballot papers issued to voters and it is evident that the ballot papers account havo 


SEC, 3( ti )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962 / VAISAKHA 22 , 188 + 


1615 


been given in a slip shod way which becomes meaningless and not capable of 
being checked . 


( 6 ) At Polling Station No 13 Bisauri Primary School the serial number of 
ballot papers issued to voters has not been noted by the Presiding Officer in his 
returned and thus no check can be made in a correct way and the slip attached 
in the accounts appears to have been subsequently introduced when the papers 
being colisigned to the Record Room . 

( 7 ) At Polling Station No 22 the counting result by the returning officer it 
correctly added comes to 532 while the actual ballot papers issued to voters is 
shown to b 633 in the presiding officer s hallot paper account. Further more 
the difference of 100 ballot papers issued at this polling station remains 
unexplained us to how these have been disposed off and in wiose lavour they 
have been cast . 


( 8 ) At Polling Station No, 25 and 26th - ballot papers accounts are totally 
incorrect and they show excess of three in one and 10 in the other which remains 
unexplained . 


( 9 ) At Polling Station No. 31 and 32 thc accounts are incorrect as it shows 
an cxcess of one ballot paper and three ballot papers in them respectively . 


( 10 ) At Polling Station No. 34 Baraini Junior High School there is absolute 
black out about the serial numbers required in the Bollot Papers account and no 
body can check how matters stand at this polling station . This absence of serial 
number of ballot papers is a pointer to the facility to absorb collected ballot 
papers from other polling stations and swell thc votes of the respondent No . 1 
without fear of detection . A full scrutiny about the Ballot Papers issued to all 
the polling stations may bring to light the serious departure and non observance 
of rules facilitating corruption among the polling parties , 


( 11) At Polling Station No. 38 Amra the excess of one hallot paper in the 
result of counting by the Returning Officer when only 509 ballot papers were 
issued to voters at this Poll is starting and points to the fact that frec ballot 
papers have been available to the miscreants to swell the counting by illegal 
practices. 


( 12 ) At Polling Station No. 41 Asna Primary School the serial numbers of 
Tallot papers cancelled does not show to count correctly and the account is 
totally incorrect. 


( 13 ) At Polling Station No. 42 Asna Primary School the serial numbers of 
ballot papers given cannot be explained and does not give th : result noted in the 
total number column thus no proper check can be made. 


( 14 ) At Polling Station No . 45 Jalalpur Primary Pathshala the Presiding 
Omiccr has given 123 ballot papers to be illegible but no serial number of them 
has been given nor those ballot papers have been shown to have been returned 
as not used . 


( 15 ) At Polling Station No. 47 Kamharia Primary School the ballot papers 
received were 185771 to 186421 i.e . 651 ballot papers out of which hallot papers 
not used have been shown to be 131 thus only 528 ballot papers appears to have 
been issued to voters. It is strange that 018 ballot papers were found in ballot 
box as noted by the Returning Ofcer . This swelling of ballot papers in the ballot 
box is a serious matter and it points to the fact that the votes of the respondent 
No. 1 has be : n swelled by importing ballot papers from other polling stations. 


( 16 ) At Polling Station No. 49 Dighi Primary School ballot papers received 
by the Presiding Officer was 200322 to 202321 the total number of ballots comes 
to 2 ,000 , out of which ballot papers not used is 257 and ballot papers issued to 
voters should have been 1 ,742 which has be - n shown wrongly as 742. Thus a total 
of 1, 000 ballot papers issued to voters remains unfound in the result of the 
counting. It is probable that 1 ,000 ballot papers have been shuffled in counting 
by the returning officer some where in the constituency to inflate the respondent 
No . 1 s ballots or the 1 ,000 ballots have been done away with which were really 
cast for the petitioner . This glearing discrepencies of 1 ,000 ballot papers issued 
to voters is important enough for scrutiny and recounting of all the ballot papers 
in thc parliamentary constituency . 


1616 


IHE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962 / VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


[PART II 


( 17 ) At Polling Station Nos. 50 , 53, 54, 55 , 56 , 58 , 59, 62, 67, 70 , 71, 76 , 77, 78, 
80 , 82 , 86 , there are a difference of several votes ranging from one to 11 in each and 
every of the Polling Station showing thụt the Presiding Officer have totally con 
fused the counting making a check of the counting account of ballot papers 
impossible . 

( 18 ) At Polling Station No. 90 Salimpur Primary School, the ballot papers 
received actually numbered 900 while the accounts have been given for 800 only 
the 100 ballot papers received by the Presiding Officer remains unaccounted for. 

“ C ” CHAKIA CONSTITUENCY 
( 1 ) At Polling Station No. 6 Secondarpur North that total number of ballot 
papers issucd to voters is only 531 but the ballot papers found in the box as a 
result of counting actually comes to 553 but the returning officer has blindly put 
it at 551. It is unexplainable how this excess of 2 votes found place in the ballot 
box . 

( 2 ) At Polling Station No. 13 Shikargunj Kothi Maharaja Saheb an excess 
of 100 votes have been recelved by the Presiding Officer but he only account for 
945 ballots and it is not understandable what has been done with the 100 ballot 
papers actually received . The serial given in the Presiding Officer s Account is 
totally uncheckable and confusing one. Purposely done to avoid checking. 

( 3 ) At Polling Station No. 30 there is an excess of one ballot paper in the 
result of counting . Similarly at polling station No. 31 there is an excess of one 
ballot papers in the result of counting . 

( 4 ) At Polling Station No. 34 Kharunja the serial numbers of ballot papers 
not used and those issued to voters have not been shown to avoid checking . 

(5 ) At Polling Station No. 36 Saidpur Primary School on proper checking it 
will found that there is an excess of 9 ballot papers over the Presiding Officer s 
accounting and the result of counting. 

( 6 ) At Polling Station No. 40 Direhu the ballot papers of the account of the 
Presiding Officer shows the serial number of received ballot papers have not 
been shown or if shown they are only 527 and all of them appears to have been 
issued to voters. Now then 273 ballot papers shown to have been not used come 
from . The account is a faked one and does not admit of checking . 

( 7 ) At Polling Station No. 46 Karnaul Primary School at this polling station 
it is strange where from the ballot paper No. 54866 has come as the said number 
does not And place among the ballot papers rereived . The whole account is 
suspicious and uncheckable . 

( 8 ) At Polling Station No. 58 Aman Sarkari Chaunai went of serial number 
for ballot papers not used and for ballot papers issued to voters it cannot be 
ascertained if the account is correct. The omission has been purposely made 
to avoid the detection . 

( 9 ) At Polling Station Nos. 77, 78 , and 81 there is a difference of one ( 1 ) vote 
in cach of the Polling Stations between the account of the Piesiding Officer and 
the result of counting by the Returning Officer . 

“ D ” MAHAICH CONSTITUENCY 
( 1 ) At Polling Station No. 14 Awahi Primary School the ballot papers actually 
received was 1 ,800 and thos , issued to yoters was fourteen hundred and five 
while the Returning Omcer gives the account for only 405 . How the one thousan . 
votes have been wrongfully disposed off remains unexplained . 

( 2 ) At Polling Station No. 21 Madhopur the accounts are imaginary as no 
Aerial numbers have been given of the Ballot Papers issued to voters and no check 
is possible . Similarly at Polling Station No. 25 Kamalpura College no check car 
be mnade for want oť serial numbers of ballot papers not used and ballot paper : 
issued to voters . 

( 3 ) At Polling Station No. 28 Bihari Primary School the result of countini 
noted by the Returning Officer gives a total of 400 and not four hundred and 
Afty . It is not explainable where those Afly ballot papers have gone. 

( 4 ) At Polling Station No. 27 Bahri the actual ballot papers issued to voter 
comes to four fiftysix instead of four thirty flve and it is not understandable hot 


Sec . 3(1 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


1617 


the twenty - two ballot papers being dealt with as the Returning Officers result of 
counting shows only for thirty -three ballot papers in the box. 

( 5 ) Al Polling Station Nos. 34 , 36 , 41 there is a difference of one ballot paper 
in each of the polling which remains unexplained , 

( 6 ) At Polling Station No . 77 Mathela the ballot papers received by the 
Presiding Officer are 999 and the number of ballot papers and used should be 477 
Instead of 377 wrongly shown thus th : ballot papers issued to voters comes to 
522 and it has been wrongly shown to be 622 and the same numbers have been 
shown in the ballot box . It is strange how 100 votes have swelled in the Ballot 
Box . 

( 7 ) At Polling Stution No. 79 Kaili Primary School from the serial number 
received the total comes to 759 out of which 518 ballot papers have been shown 
to be not used . Thus leaving 341 ballot papers issued to voters. It is not 
understandablo how 200 ballot papers found misplaced in the Ballot box . 

( 8 ) At Polling Station No . 83 Kanwar from the ballot papers received comes 
to 1, 400 and not 900 as wrongly noted and from the ballot papers işgued to 
voters it comes to a total of eleven hundred and eighty - four. It is not understand 
able where the five hundred votes have disappeared from the result of counting 
given by the Presiding Officer the whole thing is suspicious and appears to be 
conspired by the respondent No . 1 in alliance with the Polling Party . 

( 9 ) At Polling Station No. 86 Balua Higher Secondary School the accounting 
cannot be checked for want of serial numbers of ballot papers not used and 
issued to voters this probably done with a design to avoid checking . 

" E " MOGHAL SARAI 
( 1 ) Al Polling Station Nos. 4 , 9 , 10 , 13, 18 , there are difference of one or 2 
votes at each polling station between the two accountings. 

( 2 ) At Polling Station No. 19 it is found when the serial numbers of ballot 
papers issued to voters are added comes to 733 which has been wrongly noted 
as 693, the result of counting only accounts for 693 and does not account for 40 
ballot papers issued to voters . 

( 3 ) At Polling Station Nos . 26 , 27 it appears that there is difference of three 
and onę vote respectively which remains unexplained . 

( 4 ) At Polling Station No. 33 Shahjan the ballot papers account cannot be 
properly checked for want of serial numbers . The total number of ballot papers 
actually comes to 752 as received and if the number of ballot papers not used 
shown to be 404 is deducted from those received it leaves a balance of 348 as 
having been issued to voters which has been wrongly shown to be 645 which 
number is also shown to have been found in the ballot box . This excess of 298 
ballot papers in the ballot box is a mystery . 

( 5 ) At Polling Station No. 71 no proper check can be made for want of serial 
numbers and total numbers of ballot papers not ysed and ballot papers issued to 
voters. This was highly undesirable and negligence of duty by the Presiding 
Officer . 

( 6 ) At Polling Station No . 73 Balua Junior High School the ballot papers 
shown as received is only one thousand forty -eight but on counting the serial 
numbers given it comes to twelve hundred and forty - four. It is not known how 
these excess ballot papers have been disposed off because no serial numbers of 
ballot papers not used and those issued to voters have been given thus the excess 
of 196 ballot papers remains unexplained . 

( 28 ) To sum up the figures referred to in the five constituencies mentioned in 
the pages from 13 to 33 about the polling stations of the constituencies it may 
be stated that at Katehar constituency a total of 3 ,074 are affected . Similarly at 
Chandauli guch ballot papers number to 1, 466 and that at Chakla , the figure is 116 
and Mahaich 1,876 . Similarly at Moghal Sarai 1t numbers 545 . Thus the total 
in whole constituency the ballots affected by the conduct of the polling officials 
and the returning officers about 7 ,076 votes are proved to have been affected 
which have not been counted or taken into account of in the counting result of 
the returning officer. 

( 29 ) That the Election of Lok Sabha Constituency at Chandauli has not been 
held by fair and legal methods and the so called majority of votes of the respon 
dent No . 1 over the petitioner said to be of 1, 785 votes is totally wrong and is the 


1618 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :MAY 12, 1952 / VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


[PART II 


result of illegalities , irregularities, non -compliance and corrupt practices committed 
by the polling partius , Returning Officer and against the Conduct of Election 
Law . Congress Candidate i. c . the respondent No. 1. The clection of the 
respondent No . 1 is liable to be set aside. 


( 30 ) That the rcal state of affairs sl.own in pages from 13 to 33 will be further 
borne out by a comparison of the marked copy of ballot papers with those given 
in form No, 16 and the bundles of ballot papers the inspection of which , when 
permitted will fully support the allegation made in this petition , Account and 
scrutiny therefore of the ballot papers are indispensible for the disposal of the 
petition which is also prayed . 


(31) That the accounts submitted by th respondent No, 1 are false and the 
expenditure incurred by him is much higher . He has hidden many expenses 
such as those incurred on the printing of pamphlets and voters cards for polling 
days and other items of printing in publicity and those incurred on his polling 
agents on the day of polling and a fairly good amount spent on petrol in 
the Jeeps supplied to him by Sri Kamlapati Tripathi. The accounts therefore 
should be rejected . 

(32 ) That as the result of above mal-practices of the respondent No. 1 the 
petitioner was declared defeated . 

(33 ) That a deposit of Rs. 2 ,000 has been made by th : petitioner as required 
by law and the Government Treasury receipt showing such a deposit is being 
attached with this petition and five copies of his petition attested by the petitioner 
to be true copies of the petition are also attached , 
Prayer : 
( a ) The petitioner therefore prays the following among other reliefs that 

the election of respondent No . 1 as member of the House of People 
(Lok Sabha ) of the Indian Union bc declared void and the petitioner 
be declared duly elected for the said House . 

OR 
(b ) The election of the respondent No. 1 be declared vold . 
( c ) That the cost of the proceedings incurred by the petitioner be awarded 

to the petitioner against respondent No. 1 . 
( d ) That any other and further relief to which petitioner be found entitled 
before the tribunal be granted to him . 

VERIFICATION 
I, Prabhu Narain Singh , the petitioner do hereby verify that the contents of 
this petition contained in the paras 1 to 26 and 28 to 33 are true to my personal 
knowledge and those in para . 27 given in pages 13 to 33 are true to my 
knowledge derived from partial inspection of the incomplete records and from 
other sources which I believe to be true. Verified this the 10th day of April 1962 
in the Civil Court compound , Varanasi. 


SCHEDULE No. 1 


( 1 ) Vehicle No , U . P . L . 3177 Public carrier owned by Shri Ram Sakal Singh , 
Village Dharaull, P . O . Kanta , Varanasi was hired by Shri Bal Krishna respon 
dent No. 1 and voters were carried on 19th February 1962 from village Savaya 
to Polling Station Bigauli and back . Complaint made to Sector Oncer on duty 
and Presiding Omcer Bisauli but they paid no attention and encouraged the res 
pondent No. 1 to continue the said corrupt practices. 

( 2 ) Similarly Jeep No. 2562 owned by Shri Shiva Kedar Singh , village Baraura 
Chakia , Varanasi was hired by respondent No . 1 to carry women voters from their 
village attached to the Polling Station Lehra on 19th February 1962 to the said 
Polling Station and back . 

( 3 ) U . P . L . 3994 stage carriage owned by Shri Ram Arya Ojha , village Phutia , 
Chandauli, Varanasi was also hired by respondent No. 1 and voters were carried 
from the villages attached to Chandauli on 19th February 1962 to the said Polling 
Station and back . 

( 4 ) U . P . L . 600 Private Station Wagon owned by Sm , Prema Bhulpur, Varanasi 
was hired by respondent No. 1 and voters were carried by the agent of respondent 


SEG 8(11 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


1619 


No 1 on said vehicle from the villages attached to the Polling Station Baburi 
and back 

As far as possible the following list of voters carried on vehicle as alleged 
above are given below 
I. Shri Madho 

67 Kedar 
2 Gauri Shanker. 

68 Phulpati 
3 Sri Sukalı 

69 Kumari 
4 Rukmini 

70 Bhulani 
5 Buggu 

71 Sun iri 
6 . Bichni 

72 Shiva Narain 
7 . Sukhnandan 

73 Samiathia 
8 Siri 

74 Ram Ganesia 
9 . Birhal 

75 Kulvantia 
IO . Badal 

76 Lachmina 
II. Bachani 

77 Changur 
I2 , Kishore 

78 Ram Sunder 
13 . Sarju 

79 Marachia 
14 Chulsa 

80 Paudharid 
15 Kumar 

81 Nanhak 
16 Bagesari 

82 Udasi 
17 Gokul 

83 Dcomurat 
18 Gobind 

84 Nankesta 
19 . Sukhrani 

85 Bhagwanti 
20 Deo Narain 

86 Kashinath 
21 . Samrathi 

87 Jagarnath 
22 Makula 

88 Aliyanın 
23 . Bechan 

89 Ram narcsh 
24 Ramduları 

90 Rama 
25. Rupa 

91. Jagrani 
26 Dhaneshra 

92 , Sumitra 
27 Buliharı 

93 Phulhari 
28 Munshi 

94. Zahuran 
29 . Shivnandan 

95. Mangari 
30 , Dallu 

96 . Rajkalian 
31 Narkanday 

97 . Phuları 
32 , Sumari 

98 . Dukhnı 
33. Fakıran 

99 . Sumari 
34 Pyarı 

100 Tulsi 
35 . Baijnath 

IOI Surgati 
36 . Muneshra 

102 , Shyamkaran 
37 Gajadhar 

IO3 Ramdhani 
38 . Namji 

104 , Tlakdhari 
39 . Muneshra 

105 Gauri 
40 . Toria 

106 Şumari 
41 Khunkhun 

107 . Mantorna 
42. Dass1 

108 Sobhnath 
43 . Rambası 

109 Salık 
44 . Nahdei 

IIO , Ragho 
45 . Gopi 

III, Umrehi 
46 . Ram Lal 

112 . Jhingtu 
47. Ramkunwar 

113 . Shiva Kumar 
48 . Bhaguai 

114 . Samji 
49 . Kajju 

I15 Kumari 
50 Budhmani 

116 . Gopal 
51. Arjun 

117 . Smarathi 
52 . Basmati 

118 Dhankunri 
53 . Nantorna 

119 Shrinivas 
54 Sugauti 

120 . Surat 
55 . Bishnath 

121 Pujari 
56 Manai 

122 Budhni 
57. Mangra 

123 . Sumari 
58 Gopal 

124 Phulbasia 
59 Kanhai 

125 Gonia 
60 Rampatti 

126 Kaulpatti 
61 Dhankepra 

127 Jokhani 
62 Ramdai 

128 Chaneshri 
63 l akhpatti 

129 Lachia 
64 Sunari 

130 , Punja 
05 Suraati 

131 Tetra 
66 . Basantja 

13 : Rajkalia 


1620 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 / VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


PART II 


133 . Mukha 
134 . Lalla 
135 . Şurahi 
136 . Patiraj 
137. Omkar 
138 , Mahadeo 
139 . Surews 
140 . Mahadeo 
141. Sami 
142 , Sonkali 
143 . Slighra 
144. Kashi 
145 . Sita 
146 . Ramdhar 
147 . Amardeo 
148 . Muneshwar 
149 . Ramji 
ISO . Bhagwani 
Igr. Tetra 
152 . Lullawr.ti 
153 . Rama 
154 , Musafir 
155 . Becharia 
156 . Mulakrafi 
157 . Hajari 
158 . Ram karan 
159 . Sobha 
16o . Jangi 
I61. Saniya 
162 , Baiju 
163 . Kauli 
164 , Kalia 
165 . Chura 
166 . Dulari 
167 . Santu 
168 . Phekni 
169 . Shivenath 
170 . Manjhari 
171. Jagropan 
172 , Sama 
173 . Kulwanti 
174. Ujagir 
175 . Sumitra 
176 . Ramrati 
177 . Bhagmani 
178 . Pyarc 
179 . Kalawati 
180 . Markandcy 
181. Kunwar 
182. Kishore 
183 , Surgati 
184 . Marachi 
185 . Dhanukraji 
186 . Jamuna 
187 . Sursati 
188 . Jadunath 
189. Aditya 
190 . Achalbar 
191. Chandar 
192 . Heera 
193 . Hankunward 
194 . Kabutari 
195. Chanda 
196 . Hanika 
197 . Sahijad 
198 , Dhunan 
199 . Markandey 
200 . Anrudh 
201, Shivadhani 
202. Manika 
203 . Maya 
204 . Subedar 


205. Halvaldar 
206 . Lili 
207 . Girja 
208 . Muharmani 
209 . Sonbarta 
210 . Singhari 
211 , Bhulan 
212 . Manika 
213 . Phulmati 
214 . Phulbasi 
215 . Kasturba 
216 , Mangari 
217 . Muneshwar 
218 . Dudhnath 
219 . Phulnath 
220 . Mekhuri 
221. Atarbas 
222, Romji 
223. Lachman 
224 . Bharat 
225 . Mangai 
226 . Samwa 
227. Şalideo 
228 . Muneshwari 
229 . Muniya 
230 . Mukhusm 
231, Chhotu 
232 . Chunia 
233 . Suthag 
234 . Kabutera 
235 . Sukhram 
236 . Cudani 
237 , Ramdasi. 
238 . Bangi 
239 . Jangi 
240 . Badri 
241 . Dwarika 
242 . Phakent 
243 . Ram Dulari 
244 . Madhava 
245 . Jajdamba 
246 . Farsad 
247 . Sakal 
248. Gange 
249 . Bhagwan 
250 , Sudin 
251 . Sukhdei 
252 , Dashrath 
253 . Parasuram 
254 . Pakhandi 
255 . Chekhur 
256 . Batha 
257 . Jagannath 
258 . Bukhu 
259 . Dukhu 
260 . Kharpattu 
261 , Reja 
262. Ramkhusl 
263. Ballar 
264 , Girja 
265, Bihari 
266 . Bulara 
267. Dhonda 
268 . Nand Kishore 
269 . Bechena 
270 . Jahrani 
17Ị, Chung 
272 . Jokhana 
273 . Sama 
274 . Lalti 
275 . Pherantu 
276 . Chedulli 


Sec. 8( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962/ VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1621 


DUDODV 


278 . Bangu 

334 . Njhal 
279 . Phulwarla 

335 . Natyar 
280 . Shyam Lal 

336 . Basmati 
281 , Cherai 

337. Samvanti 
282 , Lachiya 

338 . Kalpnath 
283 . Ladi 

339 . Jagannath 
284 , Jasam 

340 . Ram Naresh 
285 . Chedi 

341. Prabhavati 
286 . Sulian 

342 , Sharda 
287 . Basuli 

343 . Patti 
288 . Samu 

344 . Daya 
289. Chauthi 

345 . Aliyar 
300 . Faudi 

345 . Bhrijunath 
301. Bithalu 

347 . Bansropan 
302 . Putai 

348. Sursati 
303 . Jagannath 

349 , Kamla 
304 . Balloo 

350 . Bajrangi 
305. Ramdas 

351. Sahrangi 
306 . Tengeri 

352 , Manikraj 
307 . Budhu 

353 . Raorangi 
308 . Misri 

354 . Sloka 
309 . Dukhi 

355 . Rajjan 
310 . Deonandan 

356 . Ram Raj 
311 , Mithai 

357. Jagrani 
312 . Sahdeo 

358 . Tengri 
313 . Teemal 

359. Bhulan 
314 . Bandeo 

360 . Ramvanti 
319. Teemal 

371, Chhabaraji 
316 . Kapilmuni 

372 . Fouidar 
317 , Huani 

373 . Sahodara 
318 . Dargahi 

374 . Hauldar 
319 . Pannar 

375 . Malti 
320 . Şahdeo 

376 . Bijai Bahadur 
321 . Badri 

377 . Bachhan 
322 , Ram Chandar 

378 . Prabhavati 
323 . Shyamsundar 

379 . Ram Naresh 
324 . Bai Ruchi 

380 , Punjabi 
325 . Kripa Shanker 

381. Radhey 
326 . Harihar 

382. Dulari 
327 . Badri 

383 . Ganesh 
328. Bhola 

384. Sita 
329 , Dulari 

385. Radhey 
330 . Sharda 

386 . Jagardco 
331, Kailash 

387. Hecra 
332 . Ram Sevak 

388 . Lokenath 
333 . Chura Devi 

PRABHU NARAIN SINGH , 

VERIFICATION 
I, Prabhu Narain Singh the petitioner do hereby verify that the contents of 
this Schedule , pages 1 to 7 are true to my knowledge derived from enquiries 
made and no part of it is false. Verified this the 10th day of April 1962 in the 
Civil Court compound , Varanasi. 

SCHEDULE No. 2 
Schedule showing the list of Polling Officials were deputed at the same place 

where had they been working 


Polling 


Station 


Serial 

Polling Station 
No . Name 

Address 

where posted . 
I Shri Rama Murat . . Master Primary School, Baubat- 27 . Baubatput, J. H . 
2 

Ditto . 
Kamal Tewari . 
» 
3 Raghubansh Mani Singh Master Primary School, Parewa 29 , Parwea Pry . School 
>> Babunandan Lal 

Do. 

Do . 
Ramparickan Singh , Master Primary School Rampur 32 Rampur School. 
6 Chinta ManiPandey . 

Do. 

Do . 


pur . 


school, 


Ditto . 


autun 


1622 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :MAY 12 , 1962 /VAINAKUA 22 , 1884 


(PART II 


Serial 
No. 


Name 


Address 


Polling 
where 


Station 
pogted . 


Master J.H . School Barahani 


33, Batahani J.H . 

School. 


Do. 


Do, 


Do. 
Do, 
Do, 


OVO 


Do, 


II 


7 Shri Rajani Ram 

Narrendey Shukla 
» Ram Charan 

Nargad Singh , 

Raghunath Singh 
I2 33 Karpath Ram . 

Chirai Singh . 
14 » Ambika Singh . 

» Chandrika Pd , , 


• Master Primary School, Rewasa 35 , Rewasa Primary 

School, 
Amra 27 , Primary School , 

Amra . 


Do . 


Do . 


Do. 


Do. 
Do. 


Do . 


n 


Anna 


41, Primary 

Asna. 


School, 


Hardeo Singh , 
Sudama Singh . 


Do. 


Do . 


17 


» 


Do. 


Paikushi 


Do, 


Ramjan Dubey 
Ram Bachan 


Do. 


Jalalpur 


School 
Paikushi. 

Do. 
45, Primary School, 
Jalalpur. 

Do , 


ad 


20 


» 


Guru Prasad 


, 


Do. 


Mahaich Assembly Constituency Chandauli Parliamentary Constituency . 


Do . 


Do. 


Do . 


21 Shri Matiullah Khan 

Master J.H , School, Anati 17, J. H . School, Anati 
Do, 

Do. 
Alakhanarain 
Dharamdco Singh . Master Primary School, Dabaria 19 , S . School , Da 

baria , 
Ram Awadh Pandey , 

Do, 
Rani Surat Pandey . Master Primary School, Madho- 21, Primary School, 
pur. 

Madhopur. 
Jhari Ram , . Master Primary School, Madhupur Do . 

Do, 
29 . Raghubanash Rum . Master Junior High School, 123, Junior High 

Kamalpur. 

School, Kamalpur, 
Ram Pharsingh 

Do. 

25 , Do.. 
Ilardev Pandey 

Do . - - 

Do. 
Ram Kuval Upadhya 

Do. 
Mali Singh . Master Primary School, Bahari 27, Primary School , 

Bahari. 
Nand Kishore Lal , 

Do. 

Do . 
Bhoolan S !ngh Master Primary School, Negura 28 , Primary School 

Negura , 
36 » Musat Ram . 

Do. 
37 21 

Shahhnath Misra Master Primarv School, Negura 
I-Iafizullah Ansari 

Do 
39 m Hanuman Upadhya Master Primary School, Khadan 30 , Primary School, 

Khadap 
» Chaniradip Awasthi . 

Do . 

Do . 


Do . 


Do. 


29 


Do . 


Do. 


Alughal Sarai Assembly Constituency Chandauli Parliamentury Constitueucy , 
41 Shri Madan Mohan 

Master Primary School, Niamta - 2 , Niamtabad Primary 
had . 

School, 
42 Bhagratı Tisari 

Do.. 

Do, 
13 1 Murari Prasad Master Primary School 

4 Pachokher Primary 
Pachokher 

School. 
44 Moti Prasad 

Do. 

Do, 
45 g Mohd . Jaki . . Muster Primary School , Bhupari 6 , Bhapari Primary , 

School. 
16 17 Nand Kishore 

Do. 
47 m Jugut Narain Singh . Master Primary School, Sarna 7, Primary School, 

Sarna. 
48 Sarja Pd . . . , 

Do. 


Do . 


Do. 


SEC, 8( li)] 


1623 


= 


= 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 

- - - - - - - - - - - - -- -- - - - - - - - 

Polling 
Namo 

Adlress 

where 


Şerial 
No . 


Station 
posted . 


49 


Shri Mohủ , Saleem . 

AbdulGaffar . 
Subhan Husain . . 


Do. 


Do . 


Do. 


Aftab Ahmad 
Maula Bux . 


. 


Rahmat Ali 


, Mister Junior High School , Ali- 21. Juni IIigh 
nagur. 

School, Alinagar, 

Do. 

30 , Primary School, 
Patpara . 

Patpara . 

Do. 
. Master Primary School, Kalesar 40 , Primary School 

Katesai. 
Do . 

39 , Primary School, Kat 

csar. 
Master Primary School, Chandosi 42 , Chandogi. 
. 

Do. 
Master Primary School, Ch . 49 , Chandrakha Prl 
andrakha . 

mary School, 
Do, 

Do 
: Master Primary School, Dahia 51, Primary School, 

Dahia . 

Do. 


Harish Charan 
Babban Singh 
Baliram Prasad 


. 
, 
. 


MoDo, 


Chiranji Pd . 
Nijamuddin . 
Kalloo Ram 


: 


o 


Do. 


612 


04 


, 


Do. 


pul 
Do 


Ben 


1121 


Chukia Assembly Constituency Chindusi Parliumentury Constitucncy . 
Ram Moorsti Singh Ilead Master Primary School, Primary School, 
Kodachaki, 

Koduchaki. 
Ram Pd . Tripathi Assti. Master Primary Schoul, 

Do. 
Kodachaki. 
Jugpat Tripathi 

Head Master Primary School, 3, Primary School, 
Kudru . 

Kuurat . 
Raj Nath Lal , . Asytt, Do. 

Do . 
Salig Ram . . Master Prunary School, Garliwa 4, Primary School, 

Garliwa. 
Chandra Dhar Lal 

Do. 
Bhagwan Upadhya Master J. IIigh School, 

6 , Sikanderpur North 
Sikanderrur . 

Primary School. 
Bhagwati Pande 

Do. 

Do, 
Sripati Tripathi . . Master J. H School, Sik - 

7 , Sikanderpur Prim 
anderpur. 

ary School. 
Rani Kuber Misra 

Do, 

Do . 
Bhon Ruj Pd . i justº Prinry School, Bhikiam - 8 , Primury School, 

Bhjklıımpur. 
Vibhuti Narain . 

Do, 
Master prundy School, Lallia 12, Latha Kala Pri 

mary School, 
Ramji Diwidi . Asstt. Du 

Do. 
Hari Shanker Lal . Head Master J. H . School, Sitar - 13 , Sitarganj Hothi 
ganj 

Maharaja Saheb . 
Daya Shanker Lal Asg! 1. Do . 
Sankatha Pd . . . Master J. H . School, Sitar - 14 , Do. 
Ram Kumar Diwidi . 

ganj Do. 
Akshai Bar Pandey . Head Master Primary School, 15 , Nawabganj Prim 
Nawabganj. 

ary School, 
Sheomurti Singh , Asstt. Do . 

Do. 
Sheo Raj Singh 

Master Primary School, Sultanpur 4 , Sultanpur, Primary 
Radha Slıyam Chaube 

Do . 
Lok Nath Singh . Master Junior High School, 5 , Junior IIigh School 
Danguni. 

Danganj. 
Sheo Bodh Chaut 

Do , 

Do, 
Ram Autar Lal 

Master Junior High School, 6 , Danganj Junior High 
Dangani. 

School, 
Ram Pa, Singh . 

Do, 

Do. 
Sherda Chaube . . Master Primary School, Roop 9 , Roop Chandpur 
Chandpur. 

Primury School. 
Jai Mangal Yadava 

Do. 

Do. 
Ganga Pa , Singh Master Primary School, Tilma- 10, Tilmapur. 

pur, 


Do . 


5 


Do, 


Schnol. 


Do. 


87 


9 


» 


1624 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHTA 27 , 1284 


(PART II 


Serial 


Serial 
No. 


Name 


Name 


Address 


Polling 
where 


Address 


Station 
posted . 


90 Shri Madho Singh . 
91 » Ram Shanker Ram 


Do . 


Do . 


Do. 


Mahendra Pratap 
Bananarain Singh 
Shreenath Singh 
Jangali Pd , . 
Shcomangal Pathak 
Pannoo Pd. 
Ram Surat Singh 
Srinath Pande . 


. Master Primary School, Tilmapur, 10 , Tilmapur 
Do . 

II, Primary School, 

Tilmapur. 
· Master Primary School, Bhopapur 16 , Bhopapur, 
Do. 

Do . 
• Master Primary School, Sheo 23, Sheoræmpur. 
Rampur. 
Do, 

Do. 
: Master J.H . Cholapur 

37 , Cholapur J. High 
School. 

Do. 
• Master Primary School, Umroha 45, Primary School, 

Umraha , 

Do. 
. (Presiding Officer ) Panchayat 30 , Primary School, 

Raj Inspector Panchayat Office Dight (Chandault). 
Dighi (Chandauli). 
Clerk Do . 

Do. 


Do. 


Do . 


100 
IOI 


Dwarika Pande . 
Taruni Kumar , 


102 
IO3 


, 


Do . 
Do . 


104 
IOS 


S . B . Singh 
Ram Chiranjiva 
Sankatha Pruşad 
Badri Pragad . 
Parag Nath Migra 


3 


Secretary Do , 
Peon Do, 
Master P . School Dighi Chapdayli 50 P . School Dighi 


Do . 


106 


The above Instances are only illustrative and this Schedule can be added to 
in vast numbers hereafter . 

प्रभुनारायण सिंह 
VERIFICATION 
I, Prabhu Narain Singh the petitioner do hereby verify that the contents of 
this Schedule pages 1 to 5 are true to my knowledge derived from enquiries made 
and no part of it is false . Verifled this the 10th day of April 1962 in the Civil 
Court compound, Varanasi. 

प्रभुनारायण सिंह 
Copies of this petition is hereby attested by the petitioner under his own 
signature to be a true copy of the petition , 

प्रभुनारायण सिंह 
[No. 82 / 221 /62. ) 

By Order, 
C . B . LAL , Under Secy .. 


New Delhi, the 3rd May 1962 
S . O . 1976 . — Whereas the clection of Shri Surendranath Dwivedi as a member 
of the House of the People from the state of Orissa from the Kendrapara Parla 
mentary constituency , has been called in question by an election petition presented 
under Part VI of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (43 of 1951) by 
Shri Banbehari Mohanty , son of late Rangadhar Mohanty , resident of village 
Mantiri, P . O . Sunguda , P . S . Salipur , District and Munsim Cuttack , Orissa. 

And whereas the Election Commission has caused a copy of the petition to 
be published in an official gazette and has served a copy thereof by post on each 
of the respondents under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 68 of the Representation of 
the People Act, 1951 ( 43 of 1951) ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 86 , 87 and 88 
of the said Act, the Election Commission hereby appoints Shri Brij Mohan Lall, 
a retired * as the member of the Election Tribunal for the trial of the said pctition 
and Bhubaneswar as the place where the trial of the petition shall be held . 
* Judge of the High Court at Allahabad . 

[No . 82 / 54 /62.2 


Sra. ( ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 / VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


1625 


S . O . 1377.- - In pursuance of sub -rule (5 ) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules , 1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the name of the person shown 
in column 1 of the Schedule below who having been a contesting candidate for 
election to the House of the People from the constituency specified in the cor 
responding entry in column 2 thereof , at the election held in 1962 bag, in accord 
ance with the decision given today by the Election Commission under sub - rule ( 4 ) . 
of the said rule, failed to lodge any account of his election expenses and will 
accordingly become subject to the disqualification under clause ( c ) of section 7 of 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the expiration of two months from 
the date of the said decision , 

SCHEDULE 


Name of contesting candidate 


Namo of contituency 


Karimnagar , 


Shri Sangayya Post Jagtial 
District Karimnagar , 
Andhra Pradesh , 


[No. AP - HP / 37 / 62 ( 1 ) .] 
$ . O . 1378. - In pursuance of sub - rule (5 ) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules , 1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the name of the person shown 
in column 1 of the Schedule below who having been a contesting candidate for 
election to the House of the People from the constituency specified in the cor 
responding entry in column 2 thereof , at the election held in 1982 has , in accord 
ance with the decision given today by the Election Commission under sub - rule ( 4 ) 
of the said rule , failed to lodge any account of his election expenses and will 
accordingly become subject to the disqualifcation under clalise ( c ) of section 7 of 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the expiration of two months from 
the date of the said decision . 

SCHEDULE 


Name of contesting candidate 


Name of confituency 


1 


Secunderabad . 


Shri J . Venkatesham , 
6 - 7 - 181, Bansilalpet, 
Secunderabad, 


[No. AP -HP / 32 / 62 ( 2 ) / 36719 .) 
S . O . 1979. - - In pursuance of sub - rule ( 5 ) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby notifles the name of the person shown 
in column 1 of the Schedule below who having been a contesting candidate for 
election to the House of the People from the constituency specified in the cor 
responding entry in column 2 thereof , at the election held in 1962 has , in accord 
ance with the decision given today by the Election Commission under sub - rule ( 4 ) 
of the said rule , falled to lodge any account of his election expenses and will 
accordingly become subject to the disqualification under clause ( c ) of section 7 or 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the expiration of two months from 
the date of the said decision . 


SCHEDULE 


Name of contesting candidate 


Name of contituency 


Shri Kommareddi Bapayya 
Swatantra Party Office, Eluru . 


Eluru . 


(No . AP -HP / 11 / 62 ( 3) / 36713 . ) 


1626 


"THE ( A / FTTF OF INDIA MAY 12 , 191 - VAJ54 


A 22 . That 


PART II 


New Delhi, the 4th May 1962 
So. 1380 — In pursuance of the provisions of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 86 of 
the Representation of the People Act, 1961 the Election Commission hereby pub 
Lishes a copy of the Election Petition No 150 of 1962, presented to thc Commis 
sion on the 11th April , 106 . Under section 81 of the said Act , by Shri Harikishore 
Singh son ol Shri Jugal Kishore Singh , village & PO Chamanpur PS Sheohar, 
District Muzaffarpur, calling in question the election to the House of the People 
from the Pupri constituency of that House of Shri Shashi Ranjan Prusad Sahu , 
son of Shri Matuk Prasad Sahu yıllage & PO Rajkhand , P S Katra , District 
Muzaffarpur 

IN THE COURT OF ELECTION TRIBUNAL , 
Through 

The Election Commission of India , 
1, Aurangzeb Road , New Delhi 

Election Petition No 130 of 1962 . 
In the matter of an election petition under section 80 and 81 of the Represen 
lation of the People Act 1951 

AND 
In the matte . of an election petition challenging the clection of 13 Pupri par 
liamentary constituency of The House of the People , 

AND 
In the matter of Shri Harikishore Singh son of Shri Jugal Kishore Singh , 
village and PO Chamanpur, PS Shcohar , District Muzaffarpur ( Bihar ) 
Petitioner 

Versus 
1 Shri Shashi Ranjan Prasad Sahu , on of Shri Matuk Prasad Sahu , village 
and PO Rakhand PS Katra District Muzallarpur ( Bihar ) 

2 Shu Nasiruddin Jidai Khan son of Md Yakub Khan , resident of village 
Parsauni Tahılbar POParsauni, Mahilbai PS Belsand District Muzaffarpur 
( Bihar ) 

Shri Jugendia Prasal Singh , son of Shri Jamuna Singh , resident of village 
Morsand PS Saidpur, District Murallarpur ( Bihar ) 

4 San Inana fralvarl sun of Shri Dhouha Singh resident ol village Rampur, 
PS Saipur District Muzaffarpur ( Bihar) - Respondents . 

The humble petition on behall of the above named petitioner 
Most respectifully sheweth 

( 1 ) That for the election of the member of the Parliament from Pupri con 
stituency of the House of the People the following different dates were fixed 
by the authorities — 
Date for filing nomination paper from 13th January 1902 to 20th January 

1962 
Date for the scrutiny of thc nomination papers, 22nd January 1962 
Date for withdrawal of the Nomination — 25th January 1963 
Date for polling — 21st February 1462, 23rd February 1962 and 25th Feb 

ruary 1962 
dat for counting of Ballot papers - 26th February 1962, 27th February 

1962 and 28th February 1962 
Date on which the result was announced — 1st March 1962 
( 2 ) That all together candidates mentioned helow , filed their nomination 
papers before the Returning Oficer for the said election 

( 1) Sri Harikishore Singh (On behalf of P S P ) 
(il) Sri Shashi Ranjan Prasad Sahu (On behalf of Congress ) 
(iii ) Sri Naguruddin Haldar Khan (On behalf of Swantantra Party ) 
(iv ) Sri Jogendra Prasad Singh (On behalf of Socialist Party ) 
( v ) Sri Thakur Prasad Singh ( Independent) 
( vi) Sri Pawan Kumar Thakur ( Independent ) . 


" Sec. 3( 11 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962 / VAISAKHA 22. 1884 

1627 
= = = = 

= = = = = = = = = = 
( 3 ) That the noinination papers of all the above candidates were accepted 
on 22nd January, 1962 by the Returning Officer , 

(4 ) That one of the candidates Sri Pawan Kumar Thakur withdrew his can 
didature and hence there was a contest between the remaining flye candidates. 

17 lhat after the counting the respondent No . I was declared elected on the 
Ist March , 1962 . 

(6 ) That the election of Respondent No. 1 is illegal and void and fit to 
be set aside. 

( 7 ) That the respondent No. 1 has got a firm in his name styled as S , Ranjan 
and Brothers for contract business . 

( 8 ) That since the respondent No. 1 is joint with his other two brothers named 
as Shri Rajani Ranjan and Kumud Ranjan they all have got joint interest in 
the said Arm but the work of the firm is mainly managed by the respondent 
No . I and his 2nd brother Shri Rajani Ranjan and his son Shri Kartik Kumar, 

(9 ) That the Respondent No. I himself , through his firm M / s . S , Ranjan and 
Brothers and through his brother Rajani Ranjan has got several contracts with 
the Central Government which are still subsisting, 

( 10 ) That the Respondent No. 1 himself , through his firm M / s . S , Ranjan & 
Brothers and his broth , r Shri Rajani Ranjan has got contracts with Central 
P .WD. Food Storage Division , P . & T . Division , Civil Aviation Division and 
otlier divisions for construction of Government Food Godowns at Muzaifarpur, 
Telephone Exchange Muin building Muzallarpur, Aerodrome and Patahi (Muzat) 
arpur ) , External service at Patna Aerodrome etc. and the above contracts were 
subsisting at the time of the nomination and election of the Respondent No . 1 , 

(11) l hat the Respondent No. 1 has got several other dirert and indirect 
contracts with different departments of the Central Government which had been 
subsisting at the line of his election and are still subsisting 

( 11 ) That the Respondent No . was dlsquailled under section 7 ( d ) of Re 
presentation of the People Act, 1951 to he chosen to fill the scat. 

( 13 ) That the nomination paper of respondent No, I was improperly accepted 
which has materially affected the result of the election . 

( 14 ) That since the respondent No. 1 was clearly disqualified to be a can 
didate for the said election , the votes cast in his favour were all wasted votes. 

( 1.7) That the petitioner having got the highest valid votes sh uld be declar 
ed is duly pleted candluate . 

( 16 ) That the petitioner has deposited Rupees 2 , 000 as security money in 
favour of the Election Commission for the cost of the petition under section 117 
of the Representation of the People Act Challan of which is enclosed herewith ; 

It is , thcrefore , preyed that your honour may be pleased tu sunt this peti 
tion , Call Lor the records of the case and alter hearing the pallacy be further 
pleased to declare the election of the respondent No 1 to be void and also 
pleascd to declare the petitioner to be duly elected or pass any other order or 
orders as your honour may deem Alt and propcr . 

And for this the petitioner shall ever pray . 
Dated the, Ith April 1962 , 

HARI KISHORE SINCH . 


VERIFICATION 


1, Harikishore Singh , son of Shri Jugal Kishore Singh , village and P . O . 
Chamupur, PS Sheohar , District Muzaffarpur do hereby verify at Palna on 
the 9th of April, 1962 and declare that th - contents of the paragraphs 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 
7 , 8 , 12 , 13 , 14 , and 16 of the election petition are truc to my knowledge and 
that of pard graphs 9 , 10, 11 ere partly true to my knowledge and partly based 
un reliable information believed to be t ve and that of paragraphs 6 , 15 are sub 
mission to the Court , 
Dated the, 9th April 1962 . 

HARI KISHORE SINGH . 

[No. 82/ 130 / 62.] 


1628 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKJIA 22 . 1884 


[PART 1F 


S . O . 1381. - In pursuance of the provisions of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 86 of 
the Representation of the People Act, 1961, the Election Commission hereby pub 
lishes a copy of the Election Petition No . 294 of 1962, presented to the Com 
mission on the 14th April , 1962, under section 81 of the said Act, by Shri Ram 
asrcy Pd . Chaudhary, son of Babu Chhatrudharı Chaudhary , deceased of village 
and P . O . Keonta , District Darbhanga , calling in question the election to the 
House of the People from the Samastipur constituency of that House of Shri 
Satya Narain Siriha , son of Shri Beni Pd , Singh of village Shambhupatti, P . S . 
Samastipur , District Darbhanga . 
PETITION UNDER SECTIONS 80 AND 81 OF THE REPRESENTATION OF PEOPLES 

ACT, 1951 
BEFORE THE ELECTION COMMISSION , NEW DELHI 
An election petition under Article 329 of the Constitution of India read with 
sections 80 and 81 of the Representation of the Peoples Act, 1951. In respect of 
the election to the Lok Sabha (House of People ) from 16 -Samastipur Parliamen 
tary constituency in the Darbhanga District of the State of Bihar , held on 18th , 
21st , 23rd , and 25th of February , 1962 . 

ELECTION PETITION No. 294 OF 1962 . 

BETWEEN : --- 
Shri Ramnasrey Pd . Chaudhary son of Babu Chhatradhari Chaudhary , deceased 
of village and P . O . Keonta of Darbhanga District . An elector in 103 , Dalsing 
hsarai West Assembly constituency and candidate for 16 Samastipur Parliamen 
tary constituency to the House of People . 


Versus 


1. Sri Satya Narain Sinha , son of Shri Beni Pd . Singh of village Sham 

bhupatti P . S . Samastipur Distt. Darbhanga Returned Candidate - Res 

pondent. 
2 . Sri Rajendra Mahto , son of Shri Janakdhari Mahton of village Patepur 

Gopinath P .O . Gighra District Darbhanga - - Defeated candidate 

Respondent. 
3 . Sri Banarsi Pd . Sah son of Shri Şarjug Sah of village and P . O . Naya 

nagar in the district of Darbhanga - deteated candidate - Respondent. 
4 . Sri Hemant Kumar Chaudhary son of Sri Ramasrey Pd , Chaudhary of 

at and P . O . Dalsinghsarai Distt. Darbhanga - Retired candidate - Red 

pondent. 
5 . Rejeshwar Patel son of Sarjoog Patel yillage Akhtiarpur P . O . Chan 

daull District Darbhanga - Retired candidate Respondent. 
The humble petition states as follows: 

1 . That The petitioner is an elector, his name, being included in the electoral 
roll for 16 , Seinastipur Parliamentary constituency in serlal No. 1 from village 
Keonta in Dalsinghsarai West Assembly constituency . 

2 . That on 13th January 1962 the aforesaid constituency was called on to 
elect a member for House of People , 20th January 1962 being the last date for 
filling nomination paper . 

3 . That the petitioner , ſled his nomination paper on 18th January . 1962 and 
respondent No. 1 . respondent No. 2 , respondent No. 3 and respondent. 4 and 5 
also filled their nomination papers. 

4 . That the nomination paper of the petitioner along with the respondents 
were declared valid by the Returning Officer , Darbhanga . 

5 . That this petitioner was the candidate , on behalf of the Swatantra Party 
of India , whereas respondent No. 1 was candidate , on behalf of Congress Party , 
respondent, No. 2 was candidate , on behall of Praja Socialist Party , respondent 
No . 3 was candidate on behalf of socialist party , and respondent No . 4 and 5 
were independent candidates , who withdrew their candidature. 

6 . That during the election the respondent No. 1 and respondent No . 2 , their 
workers and party members made speeches falsely indicting the Swatantra party 
as a party of Rajas and Maharajas and Zamindars trying to take back the Zamin 
dari and establish their tyrannical rule over the tenantry . Respondent No. 1 


SEC. 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1629 


and his workers and party men exhorted to muslim voters inhabiting the con 
btituency to vote for the congress on the ground that they are only safe in the 
hands of the congress. They also canvassed vote on ground of castism . On many 
diflerent Occasions they also delivered speeches making false imputation to the 
Swatantra Party as also to this petitioner . The instances , date, time and persons , 
making speeches are enumerated in Annexure A hercin below annexed . 


7 . That the congress party workers agents of respondent No i distributed 
to the knowledge and connivance of the respondent No. 1 leaflets casting heinous 
and false aspersions on the character of this petitioner and made false imputa 
tions against this petitioner s whole fanily . " Instances of such leaflets are 
enumerated in Annexure B herein below annexed . 


8 . That respondent No. 1 got printed one booklet of song namely JAWANE 
KI- HAWA 1 O 

ET) written and published by Sri Ramdeo Singh of 
village Khajuri in P . Ş . Samastipur in the District Darbhanga containing bitter 
songs against Swatantra Party and their leaders in village dialect . The agents 
and workers of Respondent No. 1 distributed this booklet in the whole of con 
stituency and all the songs were sung on loudspeakers . One particular instance 
is on the orcasion of Sri Jawahar Lal Nehru visit on 15th February , 1962 at 
Sam : stipur and inciting rommunal feeling in Hindus and creating hatred against 
Swatantra Party . This pamphlet also falsely said that this party will take back 
Zamindari This book is mentioned in Annexurę Chcrein below annexed . 

9 . That corrupt practices were employed during election by the congress and 
the workers, agents of respondent No. 1 to his full knowledge and such corrupt 
practices are enumcrutcd in Annexur : D here , is annexed . 


10 . That the voters were given temptations to vote for Respondent No . 1 and 
one such temptation was given to voters at village Chandsuri in Dalsinghsarai 
P . S ., where Rspundeni No 1 promised to have bridge over river Baluahı construct 
ed . And in fulfilment to that promise respondent No . I laid down the foundation 
stone of the bridge on 8th February, 1962 and addressed a large meeting request 
ing electorate to vote for him as he construct the bridge at his own cost . And 
other inducements offered by Rcspondent No . 1 or on behalf of Respondent No . 1 
are enumerated in Annexure D herein below annexed . 

11 . That during election Government vehicles and Government requisitioned 
vehicles for election duty were used by respondent No. 1 for carrying people 
to the places where election mectings were held on behalf of respondent No . 1 , 
particularly on the occasion of Prime Minister s visit at Samastipur on 15th 
February , 1962 in conncction with the election campaign on behalf of Respon 
dent No. 1 and on that date the use of Government vehicles and Government re 
quisitioned vehicles for election duty for carrying people from Dalsinghsarai to 
Samastipur and registration number of such vehicles are given in Annexure E 
herein below annexed , 

12 . That the Government Rallway employees were working for canvassing 
vote for respondent No. 1 with his full knowledge . Namely Sri Lalbahadur 
Chaudhary and Braj Kishore Jha both passengers guides posted at Samastipur 
only for this purpose . Sri Ramkripal Singh guard and Sri Birbahadur Singh , 
clerk of D . T .S . office, Samastipur were also utilised by Respondent No. 1 for his 
election work . And all the four workers of Respondent No. 1 took leave from 
- the Railway. The post of passenger guide was only created to accommodate Sri 
Lal Bahadur Chaudhary , and Brajkishore Jha resident of this constituency , so 
that they may work for respondent No. 1 

13 . That secrecy of ballot were not maintained by recording ballot paper 
serial No. against the name of elector in the copy of the electoral roll set apart 
for the purpose by the Polling officer, due to this very practice Respondent No . 1 , 
his election agent Sri Purshottam Pd , Singh and others use to canvass to the 
voters that if they did not vote for the Respondent No. 1 they would be in a 
position to know as to what they did as they were ruling party . That due to 
this thing in practice and propaganda the people out of fear that the secrecy of 
voting will be known to respondent No . 1 . The electoral dared not to go against 
him . So the rule framed under the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961, section 
38 ( 2 ) Is ultra vires and Infringes the constitution of voting by secret ballot . 

14 . That on Booth No. 34 , M . E . School, Dalsinghsarai on 21st February, 1962 
Congress Party flag was used within 100 yards of the above booth and canvassing 
were made by workers of Respondent No. 1 within 100 yards of the Polling booth . 


1630 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :MAY 12 , 1962 VALAKIA 22, 1897 [PART II 

ZZG 
Sri Devi Pd . Agrawal hired rickshaw for carrying voters, he was also polling - agent 
for Rcpondent no. 1 . 

15 . That on booth No. 33 in National High School on 21st February 1962 at 
Dalsinghsarai Sri Satyapal Mishra Pulling agent of Respondent No. 1 hired rick 
shaw for carrying voters and this matter was reported to the Presiding Officer 
of that booth , for that application he also refused to grant receipt at the instiga 
tion of Sri J . Pathak Anchal Adhikari, Dalsingsarai. On this booth also 
National M . E , school was open , which is in the same compound and workers of 
Respondent No. 1 , took advantage of this and canvassed vote within the compound 
of that school. On the same day that is on 21st February, 1962 , Sri Ramakant 
Singh , and Sri Gobardhan Bhai Patel hired 50 rickshaws for carrying voters on 
booth Nos, 26 , 27 , 28 , 29, 30 , 31 , 32 , 33 , 34 , 35 , 36 , 37 , 38 , and 3y , of Samastipur 
East Assembly constituency . On that very day Sri Sitaram Pankaj hired 25 
rickshaws for Dalsinghsarai town booth No. 33 , 34, 35 , 36 , from Samastipur. 


18 . That Booth No. 48 , and 49 , on 21st February , 1962 , in Gram Panchayat 
Bhawan Sahit in Dalsinghsarai west Assembly constituency , the above booths 
weię located just by the side of Congress Parliamentary election office located 
in the Gaddi of Sri Moshaheb Mahto. For this , objection was raised at the time 
of selection of polling -booth . There they used to collect voters and canvass for 
their votes which was within 100 yards of the booth . The congress flag was 
also used on that day within 100 yards of the above booths. For which Sri 
Shilwant Kumar Chaudhary , election agent of Sri Ganga Pd . Dass, a candidate 
from 103 West Dalsighsarai Assembly constituency filed objection to the respec 
tive Presiding officers, 

17 . That on 23rd February , 1962, in Uda Hat Portable booth in Samastipur 
West Assembly constituency minorities were threatened at the point of revolver 
by Sri Purshottam Pd . Singh , election agent of Respondent No. 1 , and Srl 
Sitaram Pankaj a worker of Respondent No. 1. And for this authorities were 
informed . No challenge of votes were entertained by the Presiding Omcer and 
Sri Yadu Chaudhry a Polling agent of the petitioner was threatened by the 
Presiding Officer , Zonal Magistrate, Shri J . Pathak , election - agent of Respon 
dent No. 1 , and he was compelled to leave the booth . Similarly the Polling 
Agent of Respondent No. 2 , were also threatened and were compelled to leave 
the booth . Bogus votes were polled . The Presiding Omcer used to get the 
voters identified by the Polling agent of Respondent No. 1, All these incidents 
were reported to the Returning Officer, Samastipur, 

18 . That the account, submitted by the Respondent No. 1, and Respondent 
No. 2 , is also wrong and incorrect. The Respondent has left many expenses in 
curred by him - Respondent No. 1 , has spent more than the limit fixed by the 
law . 

19 . That the petitioner has deposited a sum of Rs. 2 ,000, only in the Govern 
ment treasury in favour of Secretary, Election Commissioner , New Delhi as 
security to the cost of the election petition . The treasury receipt being No. 9 
dated 11th April , 1962 , is attached herewith . 

That the result of the election of the petitioner has been materially effected 
by the above mentioned corrupt and illegal practices committed by Respondent 
No. 1, and Respondent No. 2 , and through their agents to the knowledge of Res 
pondent No . 1, and Respondent No. 2 , with their connivance. 
In view of the facts set forth above it may be declared that the election 

of Respondent No. 1, is void and be set aside and it is further pray 
ed that further declaration be given that the petitioner himself has 
been duly elected or any respondent, other than respondent No. 1, 
has been duly elected . 

Sd. / - RAMASREY PRASAD CHAUDHARY, 

11th April, 1962. 


VERIFICATION 


I, Ramasrey Pd , Chaudhary , do hereby solemnly declare that the above 
statements of this petition are true to the best of my knowledge and belief . 


Sd . / - RAMASREY PRASAD CHAUDHARY, 

11th April, 1962 . 


Sec . 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


1631 


ANNEXURE A 


19 - 1-62 Kishanpur Thana Congress Committee . Sri Satyanaran Singlı Respondent 

No. 1 . 
20 -2 - 62 Bclari , Pataılı , Siripur Gahar Pethu Pt. Harinath Mishra on behalf of 

Rahua, Barhetta , Nagargan14 , Jalalpur , Respondent No. I. 
25- 1-62 Throughout the Constituency . . Sri Lakshinikant Jha Yotsh ? 

M . L . C . 
Shashikant Jha on behalf of 

Respondent No. I . 
25 - 1 -62 

Ditto . . . . Balgobid Mahto , Ramrachha 
to 

Mahto Banwari Mahto , Jitu 
25- 2 -62 

Malto , Gayanchand Mahto , 
Jaddunandan Mahto , Ramjco 
Mahto on behalt of Respondent 

No. 1 & 2 , 
29-1-62 V . Narghoghi . . . . . Sri Satyanarain Singhi. 

8 - 2 - 62 V . Nagarvasti . , , . . 
to 

Satmalpur 
12 -2 -62 Mathurapur & Other places . . . Shah Umair M .P . 
II- 2 -62 Dalsinghsarai M . E . School ground , Satyanarain Singh , Satyapal 

Mishra , Ramgovind Nayak , 
Rameshwar Singh , Babulal 

Surekha , 
Ditto , V . Sahit . . . . . . Sri Satyanarain Singh , Suresh 

Chandra Tiwari, Rameshwar 

Singh , Satyapal Mishra . 
7 - 2 -62 Samastipur 

Sri Jagjiwan Ram . 
1 - 2 -62 

Ditto . . . . Sri Jafar Imam . 
to 

Ex. -Law and Jail Minister , 
7 - 2 -62 
2-2- 62 In Sahitganj . . . . . Dr. Syed Mohemmad M .P. 

Kutipara 

Hussainashool compound , 
15 - 2 -62 Samastipur , , , , , Prime Minister 
8-2 -62 V . Bochha Mow . . . . . Sri Rajendra Mahto 

ANNEXURE B 
1 . Kisanpur Majdoor Bhalyo Sabdhan , by thana congress committee 

Dalsinghsarai, Printed by Pravat Press, Samastipur . 
2 . Kalka Kukarmi, as Sadhu ke Vesh me by Dalsinghsarai ke Khista Ka 

Nagrik . 
3. Babu Satyanarain Singh - Se meri Koi Sikayat nahi by Sibnandan 

Singh Pagra , printed by Prabhat Press , Samastipur and many 
others . 


II 


12 
13 


ANNEXURE C 
1 . Jawane ki hawa written and published by Ramdeo Singh V . Khajurl: 

P . O . Ghataho, Darbhanga, printed by Sri Rambhajjan Press , 
Samastipur, 

ANNEXURE D 
1. Hiring of bullock carts for carrying voters by Polling agents of Respon 

dent No. 1 and 2 , on almost all booths. 
2 . Bribery to Harijans for giving votes to Respondent No . 1, on the 17th ,. 

20th , 22nd, and 24th s night of February , 1962, by Raspondent No. 1 , 

Election -agent, and Polling agents of Respective areas . 
(i ) Ganga Paswan - village Paghra . 
( 11) Pancha Lal Mehtar village Kalyanpur . 
( iii ) Padumkant Jha, Kalyanpur. 
( iv ) Ramautar Rai, Kalyanpur. 
( v ) Mahabir Rai, Chora Tabhaka, 


1622 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKHA 22. 1884 


PART II 


( vi) Jamun Sada- Balkishunpur, 
( vii ) Khakhar Paswan - Khan Mirjapur. 
( vili) Jugal Thakur - Ajnoul. 
( ix ) Ramkhelawan Chaudhary, Ashinchak and others. Inducement offered 

by Respondent No. 1, his agents and by Baleshwar Ram at present 

Parliamentary Secretary, Bihar . 
1 . Promotion of U .P . school Malpur, P . S . Dalsinghsarai to M . E . school. 
2 . Re- opening of Dhepura L .P . school. 
3 . Application to M . E . school, Simari. 
4 . Grant- in - aid to Bazidpur Bombaiya M . E . school. 
5 . Promise of raising of M .E . school, Kalyanpur to H .E . school. 
6 . Grant to Mathurapur M . E . school. 
7. Donation to Chansurai Library by Respondent No. 1. 

ANNEXURE E 
On 15th February, 1962 , plying of Government vehicles for carrying people 
from Dalsinghsarai to Samastipur tor Prime Minister election mecting . 

B . R . H . 1380 
B .EH 5241. 
B . R . H . 

8668 
and on the same day and for the same purpose the following vehicles were used 
which were requisitioned for election Duties. 

B . R . R . 7685. 
B . R . R . 6743 
B . R . R . 6457, 
B .RR . 157 , 
B . R . R . 

6040 . 
B . R . N . 4020 . 

Sd. / - RAMASREY PRASAD CHAUDHARY , 

11th April, 1962. 

VERIFICATION 
I, Ramasrey Pd . Chaudhary , do hereby , declare that the above statements of 
this petition are true to the best of my knowledge and information , 

Sd . / - RAMASRAY PRASAD CHAUDHARY , 

11th April , 1962, 
AFFIDAVIT 


I, Ramasrey Pd . Chaudhary son of Babu Chhatradhari Chaudhary , deceased of 
village and P . O . Keonta of Darbhanga District, aged about 66 years , do hereby 
solemnly affrm as follows: 

1. That I am the applicant in this case . 

2. That the contents of this election petition are true to the best of my 
knowledge , information and belief. 

Sd. / - RAMASRAY PRASAD CHAUDHARY , 

11th April , 1962. 

[No. 82 / 294 / 62.) 


S . O . 1382 . - In pursuance of the provisions of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 86 of the 
Representation of the People Act , 195 ) , the Election Commission hereby publishes 
a copy of the Election Petition No. 321, of 1962, presented to the Commission on 
the i6th April, 1962, under section 81 of the said Act, by Shri Vishwanath Yadav 
Tamaskar, Advocate , Durg, Tahsil and District Durg , Madhya Pradesh , calling 
in question the election to the House of the People from the Durg constituency of 
that House of Shri Mohanlal Bakliwal, son of Shri Premsukh , shop - keeper, Durg , 
Tahsil and District Durg, Madhya Pradesh . 


Sec , 3( 1l)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962 / VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1633 


BEFORE THE ELECTION COMMISSIONER , NEW DELHI 

ELECTION PETITION No. 321 OF 1962 
Vishwanath Yadav Tamaskar, Advocate, Durg , Tahsil and District Durg , 
( M . P . ) . — Petitioner , 

Versus 
1. Mohanlal Bakliwal, son of Premsukh , Shop Keeper , Durg , Tahsil and Dist 
rict Durg 

2 . Nandlal Sharma, son of Pandit Harishchandra Sharma, R -581 , Shankar 
Road , New Delhi. 

3 . Namdas , son of Ghondul, by profession Agriculturist of village Mura , Tahsil 
and District Raipur, M . P .- - Respondents . 

Petition under section 81, of the Representation of People Act , of 1951 , for 
challenging the election of Respondent No . 1, who has been declared elected as 
a Member of the House of People from Durg Parliamentary Constituency No . 19 , 
in Durg District and for declaring the Petitioner as duly elected Member instead . 

The case of the Petitioner is as under : 

1. That there has been a general election all over the country le., Bharat for 
election of Members to the House of People in the year 1962 , 
2 . That the Schedule of Election was as under :-- 

( 1) Notice of Election , 13th January , 1962, 
(11) Filing of Nominations, 13th January , 1962 to 20th January, 1962 . 
(lii ) Scrutiny of Nomination Papers, 22nd January , 1962. 
(iv ) Withdrawal of Nomination Papers, 25th January , 1962 , 
( v ) Elections in the Constituency, 19th February , 1982 and 24th February , 

1962 . 
( vi) Declarations of the result, 28th February , 1962 . 
3 . That Shri R . N . Chopra , I.A . S ., Collector, Durg , was appointed ng Returning 
Officer , Durg , for conducting the clections in the District. 

4 . That five persons fled their Nomination Papers for this Parliamentary 
Constituency, viz ., ( 1) Vishwanath Yadav Tamaskar, ( 11) Namdas , ( 111) Mohanlal 
Bakllwal ( lv ) Vishwaraj Singh , and ( v ) Nandlal Sharma. 

After the scrutiny, they were declared as validly nominated candidates ( vide 
EX™A . 1 ) . But before the date of withdrawal, Shri Vishraj Singh withdrew his 
nominations. Thus, leaving the Petitioner and the respondents as the only con 
testants ( vide Ex * A . IT ) . 

3 . That on 28th February 1962, in the counting of votes , Shri Mohanlal Bakllwal 
of Durg was declared to have been duly elected to All the Parliamentary Seat, 
securing 88 ,539 votes. The other candidates secured votes as under : 

( a ) Vishwanath Yadav Tamaskar - 59,671 (P .S .P .) . 
( b ) Namdas - 24 , 173 (Republican ) . 

(c ) Nandlal Sharma - 39 ,798 (R .R .P .) . 
The total number of rejected votes were 13 ,851 . The total number of votes 
valldly polled , 2 , 12 , 181 (Vide Ex . A . II ). 

Belog aggrieved by the said Election , the Petitioner Alles this Election Petition : 

5 . ( a ) That in the texture of the Durg Parliamentary Constituency there are 
very many Harijan ( Satnami) yoters who are not normally amenable to the 
influence of Şatnami Head of Chhattisgarh Division and mostly , subscribed to the 
Republican creed . As such , it was almost positive that these vetes might have in 
All certainty gone to the Petitioner. They could not go to Ram -Ralya candidate , 
the respondent No. 3 Respondent No . 1, therefore, sensing this position managed 
to set up a Harian candidate from the Republican Party who could cut down 
the votes of the Petitioner from Satnami Community . He, therefore , through 
his Congress workers and his agents , made Namdag stand so that he might 

" Not printed , 


1634 


THE GAZET TE OF INDIA :MAY 12 , 1902 /VAIJAKIJA 22. 1884 


[PART II 


reduce the number of votes likely to be obtained by the Petitioner from Republi 
can Satnamis and promised that he i. e ., respondent No, 1 , would do some good 
turn at Bhilal Steel Project either for service or for Mining contract. Namdas, 
thus, contested as a candidate of the Republican Party and secured 24 , 173 . 

5 . ( a ) ( 2 ) . That Namdas never for once stood in the Constituency, nor did 
he meet people of the Constituency, nor did he advertise his candidature in the 
Constituency . He had come only to All in the form , and thereafter, he never 
took any interest in the election . He was , therefore , a dummy set up by res 
pondent No. 1 to divide the Petitioner s votes . Namdas, respondent No. 2 , had 
also stood from Arang Constituency, in the Ralpur District . 


5 . ( a ) ( 3 ) . That the respondent No. 1 , through his agent Shri Ram Narayan 
Purohit, the permanent Secretary , Madhya Pradesh Congress Committee , Bhopal, 
got one pamphlet published in the Shree Press of Bhopal purporting to be 
addressed from Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru to Shri Mohanlalji Bakllwal, respondent 
No . 1. It is Ex. * AIII. 

5 . ( a ) (4 ) . That the respondent No. 1, Mohanlal Bakliwal not being satisfled 
with the leaflet containing the blessings of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru , got another 
pamphlet published from Laxmi Press . Raipur, through the same agency i.e ., Shri 
Ram Narayan Purohit, permanent Secretary of Madhy ) Pradesh Congress Com 
mittee Bhopal, purporting to be from the " Pradhan Mantry , Pandit Jawaharlal 
Nehru " . It purported to bear the date 19th February 1962. 

5 . ( a ) ( 5 ). That the Durg Municipal Urban area and the entire Bhilai area 
was comprised in Durg Parliamentary Constituency . The speech of Pandit 
Jawaharlal Nehru delivered on 14th February 1962, did not have had the desired 
effect on the electors in the Parliamentary Constituency . T he respondent No . 1, 
therefore, got thr alleged blessing and sent the same bv special men to the majority 
of the voters in the Constituency . But he realised that the first appeal will not 
have had the desired effect specially on the Government servants of Durg District 
and Bhilai Steel Project area . Therefore , another appeal purporting to be from 
the Pradhan Mantri. Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru , was also distributed in the Consti 
tuency , which the Petitioner humbly submits , did materially affect the result of 
the Petitioner s election and had the effert of dissuading the votrs both Govern 
ment servants and other voters from voting for the Petitioner to the great extent , 

5 . ( a ) (6 ) . That the respondent No . 1 in making Namdas, respondent No. 2 , 
stand for the Par iamentary Seat and the distribution of the leaflets alleged to 
have been signed by the Prime Minister of India , Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru , did 
cause enough mischief and materially cut down the votes of the Petitioner. Reg 
pondent No. 1 reduced the votes of the Petitioner by 24 , 173 by these methods . 
The result, was that the Petitioner was defeated in the election and got only 
59 ,671 votes . 

5 . ( a ) ( 7 ) . That the blessings of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru and the blessings of 
Prime Minister , Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru , are Ex . * A3 and Ex . * A . 4 respectively . 
They are Aled with the petition . 

6 . That the Petitioner has been in public life for the last 30 years and repre 
septed MP. Legislative Assembly in the years _ 1937 - 38 . In the first general 
election of 1952, he was elected as a M . L . A . from Bemetara Constituency , and in 
the year 1957 election , he was elected as a MLA. from Durg Legislative Assembly 
Constituency in the Madhya Pradesh . 

7 . That the Petitioner had been functioning as a Defacto Leader of the opposi 
tion in the New State of M . P . Legislative Assembly at Bhopal, 

8 . That the petitioner fought the elertion on the Praja Socialist Party ticket, 
the respondent No . 1 who has been declared elected for the Durg Parliamentary 
Seat . has entrusted with the task of fighting the prestige seat of Durg Parlia 
mentary Constituenry on congregg ticket. The main plank of attack of the Peti 
tinant against the congress candidate has been that, that organisation has oblitera 
ted the distinction between the Government and the Congress Party . 

9 . That the petitioner could have been declared elected , but for the corrupt 
practire committed by the respondent No. 1 , and his party -men and his agents 
with his consent. The agent is Shri Dhanraj Deshlahara . 

10 . That the election of the respondent No . 1 as duly elected Member for the 
Durg Parliamentary Constituency is llable to be declared void and set aside and 

* Not printed . 


n 


SEC. 8 ( l)1 


THẺ GAZETTE OF INDIA : MÁY 12, 1962 VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


165 


the Petitioner is entitled to be declared to be elected for the self -same Constituency , 
on the following facts and grounds : 

GROUNDS 
( 1) That the respondent No. 1 circulated the leaflet ( Ex . A . 3 ) , purporting to 
be sent by Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru on 19th February 1962. It contained the 
heading " the blessings of Jawaharlal Nehru " to Shri Mohonlal Bakliwal, the 
Congress candidate from Durg Parliamentary Constituency . In the body , it 
mentioned that " I hope that the electors should vote for respondent No . 1 , 
Mohonlal Bakliwal and would make him successful. The leaflet was distributed 
amongst the clectors by the Provincial Congress Committee and also by the 
Election Organisers of the Durg District Congress Committee. 

( ii) That yet another pamphlet was distributed on 22nd February 1962 at 
Durg and Bhilai purporting to be signed by Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru with his 
blessings qua Prime Minister to the respondent No. 1 Mohonlal Bakliwal, the 
Parliamentary candidate from Durg Constituency , containing exactly the 
same words as in Ex . A . 3 . This pamphlet is * Ex . A .4 . It was directive to the 
electors and more particularly , to the Government servants that the respondent 
No. 1 , Mohonlal Bakliwal must be made successful, 


( ill ) That the Petitioner does not vouchsafe about the genuineness of the origi 
nals of the leaflets being at all signed by Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru . But assum 
ing that it has beon done , the use of the words " Pradhan Mantrl" in the leaflet 
amounts to use of national symbol or emblem at the election in favour of the 
respondent No. 1 for furtherence of the prospects of the election of the respondent 
No. 1 and for prejudicing the prospects of election of the Petitioner . It also 
amounts to undue influence on the electorates . 

( iv ) That the Petitioner asserts that th - use of the national symbol i. e ., the 
words " Pradhan Mantri" and the name of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru amounts to 
corrupt practice committed by the respondent No. 1 and also by his agents with 
his consent. 

( v ) That this conduct of the respondent No. 1 and his agents is nothing short 
of corrupt practice. It is a flagrant and highly objectionable form of use of 
national symbol or emblem . The use of expression " Prime Minister " is use of 
National Symbol. The entire Nation claims to have a Prime Mitiister in the 
democratic form of Government. Prime Minister is , therefore, a National Symbol: 
It is just like use of Government machinery in favour of a particular candidate . 
The use of prefix " Prime Minister " has been deliberately made to hoodwink the 
mass of subborned Government servants and law abiding mass of electors into 
submission and feeling that some kind of Government farman is issued to which 
they had to pay a homage. 

( vi ) That the Constitution of India requires the alles, ience to it through the 
National Symbol, such as , President of India , Prime Minister of India and the 
like. The misuse of the National Symbol, such as the name of the Prime Minister 
has been to create subservience in the minds of the electors in the Constituency 
who are Government servants , pensioners , and other law - abiding electors , the 
like. Pandit Jawaharlal is not the head of the Congress, but is the head of the 
Government of India . 


(vii ) That the result of the election has been materially affected as a result 
of the corrupt practice committed by the respondent No. 1 and his agents in 
getting the leaflets (* Ex . A . 3 and A . 4 ) mentioned above published through the 
Congress Agency and printed in Shree Press , Bhopal and Laxml Press , Ralpur 
respectively , 
11. That, but for this publication , the Petitioner would have easily succeeded . 
( a ) That if the respondent No. 1 had not made respondent No. 2 , Namdas 

stand as a candidate for this Parliamentary Constituency Seat on the 
promise that he would get him good position in Bhilal, the Petitioner 
would also have easily succeeded . This corrupt practice is hit by 
section 123 ( I - A ) ( b ) sub - section ( i) of the representation of People 

Act , 1951, 
(b ) That the result of the election being materially affected by the leaflets 

and the candidature of Namdaş, respondent No . 2 at the instance of 
respondent No. 1 ; the election of respondent No. 1 is liable to be 


*Not printed . 


i656 


THẾ GAZETTẾ of INDIA MÁY 12, 1962 VÀtsAkÁ 25 , 1881 


PART tỉ 


declared void and set aside under section 100 ( 1 ) ( d ) ( II ) of the Repre 
sentation of People s Act , if not under section 100 ( 1 ) (b ) of the same 

Act . 
( c ) That the Petitioner has herewith field documents * Ex . A . 3 and * Ex . A .4 

published on the 19th February 1962 mentioned above, and alleged to 
be signed by Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru and Prime Minister Pandit 
Jawaharlal Nehru which , according to the Petitioner , lşa corrupt 
practice vitiating the election of the respondent No. 1, The details of 
the said document are glven as particular duly verified and filed as 
Ex . A . 3 and A .4 They be treated as forming part of the Petition . The 
other documents also Aled along with the Petition be treated as forming 

part of this Petition . 
12 . That the Petitioner had deposited a sum of Rs. 2000 / - as security for the 
cost as per receipt showing that the amount has been deposited at Durg, on 12th 
Aprill 1962 in favour of the Secretary , Election Commission of India , as security for 
costs of the election Petition as required by section 117 of the Representation of 
People Act , 1951. 

13 . That the Petitioner is filing requisite number of copies of this Petition , he 
has also fled the documents as per llst . 

It is therefore, prayed that the election of respondent No . 1 as duly elected 
Member of House of People for Durg Parliamentary Constituency No . 19 from 
M . P ., declared by the Returning Officer, Durg, on 28th February 1982, be declared 
void and set aside. 

( ii ) That the Petitioner be declared instead as duly elected Member of the 
" House of People " from Durg Parliamentary Constituency No. 19 , in M . P .. as 
being the only duly nominated candidate , who has not committed any corrupt 
practice . 

(lii ) That the declaration be given under section 101 of the Representation of 
People s Act, 1951. 

( vi) That the costs of the Petitioner be awarded against the respondent No. 1 . 

( v ) That any other relief which may be deemed just and proper, may also 
kindly be granted . 

VISHWANATH YADAV TAMASKAR , 

Petitioner . 
VERIFICATION 
1. Vishwanath Yadav Tamaskar , the Petitioner , do hereby verify that the 
allegations made in paras 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 5 . ( A ) ( 7 ) , 6 , 7 , 8 , 12 , 13 , are true to my 
personal knowledge and those of paras 5 . ( a ) ( 1 ) , 5 . ( A ) (2 ) , 5 ( A ) ( 3 ) , 5 . ( A ) ( 4 ) , 
SCA ) ( 5 ) , 5 ( A ) ( 6 ) , 9 , 10 ( i) to 10 (vii ) , 11 ( a ) ( b ) ( c ) are true according to the 
Information reçelved by me and believed to be true . Verified and signed on this 
12th day of April 1962 , at Durg . 

VISHWANATH YADAV TAMASKAR , 

Petitioner. 
PARTICULARS OF CORRUPT PRACTICE 
1. Making Namdar stand as a candidate for the Durg Parliamentary Consti 
tuency No. 19 , under a promise by respondent No . 1 , 

2 . Publication of a leaflet published by Shree Press , Bhopal, Ram Narayan 
Purohit , Permanent Secretary of the M .P ., Provincial Congress Committee , at 
Bhopal, purporting to be blessings of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru to Shri Mohonlal 
Bakliwal, respondent No . 1 . 

3 . The publication of a leaflet published by Shri Ramnarayan Purohit , Perma 
dent Secretary , M .P ., Provincial Congress Committee , at Laxmi Press , Raipur, 
purporting to be blessings of the Prime Minister , Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru to 
Shri Mohanlal Bakliwal, respondent No. 1. 

VISHWANATH YADAV TAMASKAR , 


*Not printed 


SEC. 8(li). 


THE GAzỆTE OF INDIẢ : MÁY 12, 1962 VISA HA 92 , 1884 


1637 


VERIFICATION 
I, V . Y . Tamaskar , do hereby verify that the above particulars are true to 
any information had , and believed by me to be true. Signed this 12th day of 
April 1962 , at Durg . 

VISHWANATH YADAV TAMASKAR . 

[No, 82 / 921 /62.] 


S . O . 1383 . — In pursuance of the provisions of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 86 
of the Representation of thc People Act , 1951, the Election Commission hereby 
publishes a copy of the Election Petition No . 322 of 1962 , presented to the Com 
mission on the 16th April, 1962, under section 81 of the said Act, by Shri Om 
Prakash , son of Pandit Ram Sarup , 15 — Dewan Hall, Chandni Chowk , Delhi, 
calling in question the election to the House of the People from the Bhopal 
constituency of that House of Shrimati Maimuna Sultan , near Fire Brigade, 
Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh . 

BEFORE THE ELECTION COMMISSION , NEW DELHI 

ELECTION PETITION NO. 322 of 1962 
Shri Om Prakash s / o Pt. Ram Sarup , 15 - Dewan Ilall, Chandni Chowk , 
Delhi- - Petitioner . 

Versus 
Mst. Maimuna Sultana, M .P ., ncar Fire Brigade, Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh 

(Returned candidate ) - - Respondent. 
Election petition under S . 81 , Representation of the People Act calling in 
question the election of the respondent to the House of the People ( Lok Sabha ) 
from the Bhopal Lok Sabha Constituency No . , at the general elections held 
in February , 1962. 

The petitioner states as follows: 

( 1 ) The general elections to the House of the People took place in February / 
March , 1962, in pursuance of a notification issued by the President of India under 
S . 14 , Representation of the People Act , 1951, for the purpose of constituting a 
new House on the expiration of the duration of the existing House , 

( 2 ) The Bhopal Parliamentary Constitucncy No. in Madhya Pradesh 
consisted of five Madhya Pradesh Assembly constituencies , namely , Sanchi, 
Budhni, Ashta Bairasia , Barcilly , Bhopal, Naya Bhopal and Sehore . 

( 3 ) The Election Commission , acting under $ 30 , Repres -ntation of the 
People Act, 1951, by notification in the official gazette issued the following elec 
tion programme. 

( a ) 20 - 1 - 1962, the last date for making nominations, 
( b ) 22 - 1 -62, the date for scrutiny of nomination papers, 
( c ) 25 - 1 -62, th : last date for withdrawal of candidatures, 
( d ) 19 -2 -62, the date of poll for Sanchi Assembly Constituency area. 

21 - 2 -62, the date of poll for Budhni, Ashta , Bairasia , 
23 - 2 - 62 , the date of poll for Bareilly , 

25 -2 - 62 , the date of poll for Bhopal, Naya Bhopal and Sehore . 
( 4 ) The parties to the petition and three other persons, namely , Kumari 
Mohini Devi, Shri Mahipal Pathak and Shri Shiy Charan were declared to be 
contesting candidates and a poll became necessary . 

( 5 ) The petition r was a candidate for the Hindu Maha Sabha, the respond 
ent for the Congress and Shrimati Mohini Devi for the Communist Party of 
India , Shri Mahipal Pathak for Bharatiya Jan Sangh and Shri Shiva Charan an 
independent candidate ; and they were allotted symbols 1.e , Horse and Rider , Two 
bullocks with yoke on , ears of corn and sickl-, Lamp and Lion respectively , 

( ) The poll took place on the appointed dates at the various polling stations, 
the counting of votes took place on the 27th of February, 1962 of Sanchi 
Assembly Constituency at Raisen , on the 28th February , 1962 of Bareilly Assembly 
Constituency at Raisen , on the 26th February , 1962 o Bairasia and Budhni 


1628 


THË GAZETTĚ OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


[Part It 


Assembly Constituencies at Sehore, on the 27th of February , 1962 of Ashta and 
Sehore Assembly Constituencies at Sehore and of Bhopal and Naya Bhopal 
Assembly Constituencies at Schore . 

( 7 ) According to the declaration of results announced on the 28th February , 
1962, the particulars about voting for the Constituency are these : 
Total Electorate 

5 , 18 , 346 
Total Votes for Polling Stations 

2 , 36 ,088 
Rejected votes 

8 ,796 
Valid votes 

2 ,27 , 292 
Om Prakash 

63, 898 
Mahipal 

38 ,211 
Maimoona Sultana 

83 . 204 
Mohini 

34,010 
Shivcharan 

7 ,969 
and the respondent No. 1 was declared as elected . 
(8 ) The respondent No. 1 has been guilty of the corrupt practices of undue 
influence ( S . 123 ( 2 ) 1, Appeal on the ground of religion (S . 123 ( 3 ) ], the publica 
tion of a false statement of fact in relation to the personal character of the 
petitioner and in relation to his candidature ( S . 123 (4 ) ] and the hiring or procur 
ing of vehicles for the conveyance of voters ( S . 123 ( 5 ) ], 

( 9 ) Particulars of the corrupt practice of undue influence arc stated below : 

The respondent s husband , Mr, Mujtaba , is the Executive Officer of the Munici 
al Board, Bhopal and held that post during the period of the election . By 
virtue of his position , he was able to exercise , and actually exercised , undue 
Infuence on voters by showing or promising to show favour to them or by hold 
Ing out threats of various kinds to take action against others. 

He authorised his oversecrs to pay a sum of Rs. 60 , 000 towards payment of 
outstanding bills of or as advances to contractors of the Board to influence their 
votes and to persuade them to canvass for the respondent amongst their 
employees and labour force . This was done contrary to rules without the requi 
site previous sanction of the Board by a resolution , 

Certuin unauthorised persons, the poorer folk , had been in occupation by 
squatting without any permission or authority on land belonging to the Board , 
near Gumbux Talaiya . Proceedings for their dispossession had been taken 
earlier but had been dropped or kopt in abeyance On the eve of the elections 
fresh notices were issued and action thereon was suspended after the respond 
ent s husband acting through members of his subordinate staff, had successtully 
influenced the votes of those poorer folk , 

In doing all these acts and engaging in all these activities hc, Mr. Mujtaba . 
acted with the consent of the respondent and as her agent. 

( 10 ) A poster ( * Annexurc A ) was published and widely distributed amongst 
the electorate on the eve of the clection in open places and at meetings held to 
further the respondent s election in various parts of th : Constituency with the 
consent and at the instance of Shri Amarchand Rohilla election agent of the 
respondent. 

The said poster purports to have been published by one Shaukat Bhopali who 
acted as the respondent s agent and active supporter during the election . He 
had been seen actively canvassing for her and he invariably always attended 
and addressed public meetings convencd for or on behalf of the respondent s 
election , 

Thc said poster was intensively distributed at a Congress election meeting 
held on 23rd February , 1962 at about 8 or 9 P . M . in Motia Park , Suhzimandi, 
Bhopal City , which was attended and addressed by important Congress workers. 
Dr. Shanker Dial, then Education Minister of Madhya Pradesh Statc and Shri 
Govind Sahai may be particularly mentioned , Dr. Shanker Dial had engaged 
himself in active campaign to support the respondent s candidature as her agent 
and canvasser throughout the period of election . 

The said poster in so far as it criticises the Communists as denying God , the 
holy prophets , the day of resurrection , etc ., is an appeal on the ground of religion . 
References to verses from Muslim holy scriptures lend th appeal a religious 
halo . It contains a direct appeal to with - hold all contact , co -operation and sup 
port on the ground of religion . 


SEC. 3 (1 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 / VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


1639 


The said poster was issued, published and distributed by and with the consent 
of the respondent s election agent for the furtherance of the prospects of the 
election of the respondent. The circumstances outlined here prove the commis 
sion of the corrupt practices of undue influence and appeal on the ground of 
religion . 

( 11 ) ( a ) Dr. Shankar Dial Sharma, Education Minister , agent and a great and 
active supporter of the respondent, with the consent of the respondent, indulged 
in publication , through speeches in public meetings , of false statements of facts 
which he either believed to be false or did not believe to be true in relation to 
the personal character of the petitioner and in relation to the candidature , beir 
a statement calculated to prejudice the prospects of the candidate s elcction , 

In public meetings held at Station Bajaria , Bhopal, on the 20th February , 1962 
on 21st February , 1962 at Mangalvara , Bajaria and Shahjahanabad , Bhopal, and 
on 23rd February , 1962 at Imami Gate , Dr, Shankar Dial in his speeches repeated 
ly made the following statement: 
" The Petitioner has entered into a secret and unholy conspiracy with the 

Communist candidate for Bhopal Assembly seat. Shakir Ali and 
Communist Candidate Mohini Devi have been set up as candidates to 
Parliament for dividing Muslim votes, and making Petitioner s elec 
tion safe . As a part of this conspiracy , the Petitioner bullied and 
threatened Shri Udhavdas Mehta, Hindu Sabha leader of Bhopal and 
coerced him to contest election from Bhopal Assembly Constituency 

as a dummy of the Communist Candidate to the Assembly ." 
(b ) The Congress Party issued a poster , Bullctin No. 10 , Bhopal Chunao 
Darpan ( Reflection of Bhopal election in the mirror ) ( Annexure B ) . It was 
issued to further the prospects of Congress candidates for the Assembly and 
Parliamentary seats from the Bhopal area at their instance and with their con 
sent. This bulletin was circulated amongst the clectorate at the instance of the 
respondent s clection agent by her workers and other ordinary persons available 
on ordinary wages. The pamphlet was distributed in public meetings held on 
the 20th February , 1962, 21st February , 1962 and 23rd February , 1962 held at 
Station Bajariya, Mangalwara , Bajaria and Imamigale , Bhopal respectively by 
Prithviraj, Radheshyam , Ram Kishan . 

The said bulletin contains false aspersions on the personal character of the 
petitioner by imputing dishonourable conduct to him . It is also false in relation 
to his candidature in referring to an unholy pact between the Communists and 
the Hindu Mahasabha candidates. Its publication was calculated to prejudice and 
it actually prejudiced the election prospects of the petitioner . 

( c ) In engaging all the aforesaid activities and other activities of similar 
nature, Dr. Shankar Dial on account of his connections with Bhopal Constituency 
acted as the agent of the respondent. Alternatively he was certainly a person 
who engaged in these activities with the consent and approval of the Respondent. 

(12) Particulars about the corrupt practice of hiring vehicles for the convey 
ance of voters: 
( 1 ) Truck No . M . P . B . 4004 was procured to carry voters from village 

Babai to Amravat polling station and from village Barba to Bari 
Khurd polling station on 23rd February , 1862, during and before the 
polling hours. Name of the proprietor ; Badri Prasad s / o Mundri 

Lal of Badi. 
( 2 ) Lady voters of Bairagarh Kalan were carried back to their village in 

a bus arranged by Congress Workers at 4 - 00 P .M . 
( 3 ) On 25th February , Congress candidate and his agent used the follow 

ing vehicles for bringing their volers at polling stations at Balragarh . 
M . P . B . 3673 
M . P . B . 3007 
M . P . B . 2810 
M . P . B . 159 
M . P . B . 1536 
M . P . B . 2638 
M . P . B . 3746 
M . P . B . 1948 
M . P . B . 1548 
M . P . B , 1624 
M . P . B . 4575 
M . P . B . 1195 
M . P . B . 2783 


1640 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


[PART II 


Protest against this was made to the presiding Officers on the polling day 

giving the number of vehicles . 
( 13 ) The said election of the respondent is liable to be declared void on 
account of the Commission of corrupt practices mentioned in paragraphs ( 8 ) to 
( 12 ) . 

(14 ) Bhopal Treasury Receipt No. 3, dated 9th April, 1962 , relating to the 
deposit of two thousand rupees as security for costs of the petition to satisfy the 
requirements of S . 117 , Representation of People Act, 1951 is attached herewith . 

(15 ) An affidavit in form 25 , required by R . 94 - A , Conduct of Election Rules , 
1961, relating to the allegations of corrupt practice is also attached herewith . 

( 16 ) The petitioner was a contesting candidate at the election and is entitled 
to present and maintain this election petition , 

( 17 ) It is, therefore, prayed ( 1 ) that the election of the respondent to the 
House of the People from Bhopal Parliamentary Constituency No, at the general 
elections held in February , 1962 may be declared void , ( 2 ) that election against 
Shri Amar Chand Rohilla , respondent s clection agent, and Dr. Shanker Dial , 
above mentioned , may be taken under S . 99, Representation of the People Act, 
1951 and appropriate orders passed , and ( 3 ) costs of the petition may be award 
ed against the respondent. 

( 18 ) The result of election , dcclaring the respondent to be duly elected was 
announced by the returning officer on 28th February , 1982. The last day of 
limitation falls on 14th April, 1962. That day and 15th April, 1962 are public 
holidays on which the office of the Election Commission is closed . It is presented 
on 18th April, 1962 and is within limitation in view of S . 10, General Clauses Act . 

Your humble petitioner , 
( Sd .) OM PRAKASH , 

12- 4 -62 


VERIFICATION 
Verifled that the contents of clauses ( 1 ) to ( 7 ) and ( 14 ) to ( 16 ) are correct 
to the best of my knowledge and clauses ( 8 ) to ( 15 ) and ( 17 ) are correct to the 
best of my bellef, this 12th day of April, 1962 at Delhi, 
Attested to be true copy . 
( $ d .) OM PRAKASH . 
12 - 4 -62. 

(No. 82 / 322 / 62 . ] 


New Delhi, the 5th May 1962 
S . O . 1384 . In pursuance of the provisions of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 86 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes 
A copy of the Election Petition No. 318 of 1962, presented to the Commission on the 
16th April, 1962, under section 81 of the said Act, by Shri Rilli Chamar son of 
Shri Şunne Chamar, resident of Ward No . 6 , Naraiya Muhal, Tikamgarh , calling in 
question the election to the House of the People from the Tikaingarh constituency 
of that House of Shri Kure Mate son of Shri Adku , Resident of Chamrola , District 
Tikamgarh . 

ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA . 

NEW DELHI. 

ELECTION PETITION No. 318 , 1962 . 
Under Section 81, of the Representation of the People Act, 1951. 
Rilli Chamars/ o , Sunne Chamar , aged 33 years Ward No. 6 Naralya 
Muhal, Tikamgarh ( M . P . ) . - -Petitioner , 

Vs. 
Kure Mate s / o . Shri Adku r / o Chamrola District Tikamgarh (M . P .) - Res 

pondent. 
the humble Petition of the above named Petitioner respectfully sheweth as 
follows: 

1. That, it having been decided to hold a General Election for the purpose of 
Constituting a New House of the People on the expiration of the duration of the 


Sec. 3( 11 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1641 


then existing House , the President by notification published in the "Gazette of 
India " on the 30th January , 1902 , was pleased to call upon all Parliamentary 
Constituencies ( other than those within the States of Kcrala and Punjab and 
the Union Territorics of Della and Himachal Pradesh ) in pursuance of the pro 
visions contained in Sub - Section ( 2 ) of Section 14 of the Repcsentation of the 
People Act, 1951, to clect Members in accordance with the provision of the said 
Act, and the Rules made thereunder : 

2 . That in the State of Madhya Pradesh , Tikamgarh is a (Reserved Scheduled 
Caste ) Parliamentary Constituency No. 5 . 

9 . That the Election Commission by Notification published in the Official 
Gazette dated the 13th January , 1962, in exercise of the powers conferred by Sec 
tion 30 , of the Repesentation of the People Act, 1951, appointed : 

(a ) the 20th January , 1962, as the last date for making nominations; 
( b ) the 22nd January , 1962, as the last date for the scrutiny of the nomina 

tions; 
( c ) the 25th January , 1962, as the last date for the withdrawal of Candi 

datures ; and 
( d ) the 31st March , 1962, as the last date before which the Election was to 

be completed ; 
And with respect for the Election by Tikamgarh (Reseryed Scheduled 

Caste ) Parliamentary Constituency No. 5 , February , 20th , 21st, 22nd 
and 24th as the last date for taking the Polls in different Legislative 
Assembly Constituencies comprised within the said Parliamentary 

Constituency . 
4 . That the Petitioner is and was at all material times an Elector enrolled as 
Serial No. 434 , of the Electoral Roll 1961. relating to Tikamgarh Assembly Con 
stituency which forms part of Tikamgarh Parliamentary Constituency . 

5 . That the Petitioner is a Member of Chamar Caste which is a Scheduled 
Caste in relation to the Districts of Datia , Tikamgarh , Chhatarpur, Panna , Satna , 
Rewa, Sidhi and Sahdol of the State of Madhya Pradesh . 

6 . That the Pctitioner is and was at all material times fully qualificd to be 
chosen to All A reserved Scheduled Caste Seat in the House of the People as 
provided in the Representation of the People Act , 1951. 

7 . That in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 21 of the Representa 
tion of the People Act, 1951, the Election Commission appointed the Collector , 
Tikamgarh as the Returning Oficer of the said Constituency . 


8 . That the Petitioner delivered and caused to be delivered according to the 
provisions of Section 33 , of the Representation of thc People Act, 1951, three 
nomination papers on the 18th and 20th January , 1962 . the Returning Officer for 
the Tikamgarh Parliamentary Constituency duly filled in and completed in the 
prescribed Form and signed by the Petitioner and by the Elcctors of the Con 
stituency as proposers . 


The Petitioner also made a declaration in all of his nomination papers that 
he is a member of Chamar Caste which is a Scheduled Caste in relation to the 
Districts of Datia , Tikamgarh , Chhatarpur, Panna, Satna , Rewa, Sidhi and Sahdol 
of the State of Madhya Pradesh . 


9 . That the petitioner had also deposited Rs. 250 in cash on 18th January, 
1962, with the Returning Officer for Tikamgarh Parliamentary Constituency . 

10 . That besides the Petitioner , the Respondent and five others namely , 
Kamoda, Balram Das , Ghanshyam , Bhaiya Lal and Ram Deen had also presented 
their nomination papers to the Returning Omrer , Tikamgarh , Shri, Balram Das 
Chamar was the recognised Candidate of the Congress Party and the Petitioner 
was also a Candidate of the said Party . 

11 . That on the 22nd January , 1962 , the said Shri Kamoda Chamar , made an 
Application to the Arturning Officer supported by an Affidavit that the said Shri. 
Balram Das belonged to Jatav Casto which he had not mentioned in his declara 
tion for being a Member of Scheduled Casie and that Jatav Caste was a separate 
Caste which was not a Scheduled Caste for Tikamgarh , Datia , Chhatarpur , Panna , 
Satna . Rawa, Sidhi And Sahdol Districts of the State of Madhya Pradesh and 
that Balram Daş had concealed his own raste Jatav 


1642 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 / VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


[Part II 


12 . That the Returning Omccr heard the Counsel of Shri Balram Das and 
Kamoda Chamar, On behalf of Shri Balram Das it was stated before the Re 
turning Officer that the Balram Das was a Chamar by Caste in the Area concerned . 

13 . That the learned Returning Officer held that Jatay was regarded as Dis 
trict Sub - Caste of Chamar but it has not been included in the list of Scheduled 
Caste for the Districts of Former Vindhya Pradesh Region and that the alterna 
tive mentioned in the list were exhaustive. 

He further held that the Scheduled Caste as listed in the President s Order 
must be related to the Geographical Area in which the person resided , Outside 
that Arca he could not be recognised as a member of any Scheduled Caste . 

14 . That the learned Returning Officer did not consider the decision of an 
Election Tribunal holding that it was based on the Schedule of a different Order . 
Ile also did not give any wcight to a Caste Certificate of the Collector Chhatar 
pur dated the 20th June, 1956 , issued to Shri Balram Das to the effect that he 
belonged to Scheduled Caste of the District recognised as Scheduled Caste in the 
Constitution ( Scheduled Caste ) Order 1950 , ( Part C . State ) Order 1951, 


15 . That the learned Returning Officer rejected the nomination papers of Shri 
Balaram Das and he declared the Petitioner , the Respondent and Shri Kamoda 
and Bhaiya Lal and Ram Deen as Validly nominated Candidates for the Elec 
ti - n 

16 . That Shri Bhaiya Lal and Shri Ram Deen withdrew their Candidatures on 
the 25th January , 1962, and the Pctitioner the Rispondent and Kamoda were de 
clared as the constesting Candidates for the said Election . 

17. That Polls for the said Election were held on the notified dates and as a 
result of the Election the Respondent was declared elected as a member of the 
House of the People for the said Constituency. 


18 . That the total number of Voters for the Election was 450501, out of which 
221529 valid Votes were Polled and 14966 Votes were rejected . The Respondent 
obtained 97647 Votes Shri Kamoda obtained 66359 Votes and the Petitioner got 
57555 Votes . 


19. That the Petitioner submits that the Elcction of the Respondent is void 
under Section 100 ( 1 ) ( C ) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and 
Ales this Petition challenging the validity of the Election on the following 
grounds : 
( a ) Because Shri Balram Das belonged to the Chamar Caste which is a 

Scheduled Caste in the District of Datia , Tikamgarh , Chhatarpur, 

Panna, Satna, Rewa , Sidhi and Sahdol. 
(b ) Because at Nowgong within the District of Chhatarpur the place at 

which Shri Balram Das resides, Jatay is not a separate Caste from 
the Caste of Chamar. The terms Jatay and Chamar are synonymous 

included in the Chamar Caste in the Area . 
( c ) Because Shri Balram Das did not belong to any Jatav Caste known as 

separate and distinct Caste from the Chamar Caste in the Area . 
( d ) Because the nomination papers of Shri Balram Das had been impro 

perly rejected . 
( e ) Berausc the Returning Officer was not competent to hold an enquiry 

about actual Caste of Shri Balram Das and he ought to have acccpt 
ed the declaration made by him in the nomination papers as correct. 
Shri Balram Das had completed the nomination in the prescribed 
Form and such Order of the Returning Officer reiccting the nomina 

tion paper of Shri Balram Das was in excess of his jurisdiction , 
( 1) Becauce the nomination paper of Ghanshyam was also improperly re 

jected , 
g ) Berause on the date of his Election the Respondent was disqualifed for 

membership of Parliament as there subsisted a Contract entered into 
in the Course of his Trade or Pusiness by him with the P . W . D . Irri 
gation Department Madhya Pradesh Government for the execution 
of the work undertaken by the Government for the Construction of 
the Hira Nagar Bawri Tank Agterment No 16 , 17 , and 18, of 1959 
to 1900 


SEC, 8( ii )] 


HỀ GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 , VAISAKIA 22, 1884 


1643 


( h ) Because the nomination paper of the Ruspondent was improperly accept 

ed which materially effected the Election of the Respondent. 
(i ) Because the Respondent and his Agents induced the Electors of the 

Constituency to Vote for the Respondent on the basis of Communa 
lism committing the corrupt practice of undue influence which pre 
vailed throughout the constituency some of the particulars are set 

forth in Annexure thereto . 
(j ) Because the Respondent and his Agents and supporters induced the 

Electors to Vote for Respondent on the promise of providing seryices 

and lands for them . 
( k ) Because the Respondent, his Agents and supporters procured persons 

who were not Electors to Vote for the Respondent and thus improper 
Votes were received which materially affect the Election of the Res-- 

pondent. 
( 1) Because at Chandera Polling Station in the Lidhura Assembly Con 

stituency some Voters were not allowed to Vote and had to go away 
whereafter some others Voters were allowed to Vote and thus Votes 
were refused which materially affects the Election of the Respon 
which matcrially affects the Election of the Respondent. 

dent. 
( m ) B causc wide sprcad undue influence prevailed throughout the arca of 

the Tikamgarh , Jatara , Lidhaura Legislative Assembly Constituencies 
within the Parliamentary Constituency and the Respondent obtained 
Votcs by undue infuence which materially affect the Election of the 

Respondent 
( n ) Because the respondent, his Agents and supporters requested the 

electors to vote or refrain from voting on communal grounds , 
( 0 ) Because the respondent, his Agents and supporters procured the assis 

tance for the furthcrance of the prospects of the election of the res 
pondent of persons in service of the Government, namely Patwaries 
und Chawkidars and other Police Officers. 


her Police the Gover the recured 


PRAYER 
20 . It is therefore prayed that the election of the Respondent be declared void 
with costs . 
Tikamgarh . 

Petitioner. 
Dated 11th April, 1962. 

( RILLI S / o , SUNNE CHARMKAR , 

Nuraiya Mohalla , Tikamgarh ) . 


VERIFICATION 


I Rilli S /0 , Sunne R / O . Tikamgarh , this day the 11th April , 1982 , at Tikamgarlı 
verify that the contents of the petition para 1 to 20 and the particulars para 1 to 
7 annexed thereto have been written at my instructions and are true to my per 
sonal knowledge and on information received from my Agents and supporters , 
which I believe to be true . 

Tikamgarh . 
Dated 11th April, 1962 . 

RILLI CHARMKAR , 


PARTICULARS OF CORRUPT PRACTICES 
1. That Shri Laxmi Narayan Naik Candidate for Legislative Assembly for the 
P . S . P . from Lidhaura Assembly Constituency with others of his Party as the 
Agents and Supporters of the Respondents got Pamphlet published copv of which 
attached to the effect to Appeal to Aherwar Chamars tu vule ſur the Respondent 
on the Communal basis . 


2 . That Shri Parwat Ahorwar Sub - Inspector of Mohan Garh in the Lidhaura 
Legislative Assembly Constituency terrorised Congrega volers hy king away 
the Flag of the Party fixed outside the Booth and threatened them . 


1644 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1362 / VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


(PART II 


3 . That at Lidhaura Balaji Lodhi and his party people in the Lidhaura Assemb 
ly Constituency picked quarrels with the Voters of the Congress party and beat 
them and similar things were done by Prakash Chundra Jain at Chandera and 
Babu Lal Chaubey at Digora Polling Station . 

These people obstructed the peaceful Meetings and canvassing of the Congress 
Party and caused widespread undue inilucnce to prevail throughout. 

4 . That Panna Lal Patwari Potpura and Dundi Alias Kamtua Chowkidar of 
Nadanwara canvassed for the Respondent in their Polling Stations at the time of 
the Election at the instance of the Respondent, his Agents and supporters. 

5 . That Munna Lul Naik a Polling Officer of Bamhauri Polling Station , openly 
canvassed for the Hespondent at the instance of the Respondent his Agents and 
Supporters inside the Polling Booth . 

6 . That Raghraja Khakron Bari who was a Voter died before the Election and 
Karan Singh caused his wife Chipri Bari to Vote in place of Raghuraja . 

7 . That Harprasad alias Halkcy of Lahurgawan Hanumat Singh Jaron of the 
same Village canvassed in the Polling Booth at Lahurgawan at the Election for 
the Respondent at the instance of the Respondent, and his Agents and supporters . 

RILLI CHARMKAR , 


VERIFICATION . 
I Rilli S / o . Sunne R / o . Tikamgarh , this day the 11th April , 1962 , at Tikam 
garh verify that the contents of the particulars, para 1 to 7 have been written at 
my instructions and are true to my personal knowledge and on the information 
received from my Agents and supporters , which I believe to be true, 

RILLI CHARMKAR . 

[No. 82 / 318 / 62 .] 
S . O . 1885 . — In pursuance of the provisions of sub -section (i) of section 86 of 
The Representation of the Pçople Act , 1951, the Election Commission hereby pub 
Iishes a copy of the Election Petition No . 258 of 1962, presented to the Commis 
sion on the 12th April, 1962 , under section 81 of the said Act , by Shri Khubchand 
Baghel, S / o Shri Judawan Singh , Resident of Tatyapara , Raipur, District Raipur, 
Madhya Pradesh , calling in question the election to the House if the People from 
the Mahasamund constituency of that House of Shri Vidyacharan Shukla , S / o 
Pandit Ravishanker Shukla , Resident of Budhnpara , Raipur, District Raipur, 
Madhya Pradesh . 
TO 
THE ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA , NEW DELHI, 

ELECTION PETITION No. 258 OF 1962, 
Shri Khubchand Baghel s / o Shree Judawan Singh r / o Tatyapara, Raipur, 
District Raipur, M . P . . . . . . . . . Petitioner , 

VERSUS 
1. Shree Vidyacharan Shukla s / o Pandit Ravishanker Shukla , río Budhapara , 
Raipur , Dist. Raipur M . P . 

2 . Shrce Indradeo Tandon s /o Sira Singh resident of Village : Jhara , P . O , Kha 
lari, Tahsil Mahasamund , Distt. Raipur M . P . 

3 . Shree Dharmjit Singh s / o Tribhuwan Singh r / o Sarangarh, District Raigarh , 
M . P . 

4 . Shree Ramsingh 3 / o Ganesh Ram , r / o Lalpur P .O . Bagbahara, Tehsil Maha 
suniund , Dist. Ralpur M . P . 

PETITION UNDER SECTION 80 and 83 OF THE REPRESENTATION OF THE 
PEOPLE ACT, 1951 calling in question the election of MAHASAMUND LOK 
SABHA CONSTITUENCY from the State of Madhya Pradesh , 

The Petitioner named above submits as under : 

1. The petitioner and the four respondents were contesting candidates for the 
Lok Sabha from the Mahasamund Lok Sabha Constituency of the State of M . P . 
in the last general elections. 


Sec . 8(81)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 19, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


1645 


2 . As a result of the Poll the respondent No. 1 namely , Shree Vidyacharan 
Shukla was declared elected to the Lok Sabha from the aforesaid Constituency on 
27th February 1962 . 

3 . The total number of votes polled by the respective candidates is given 
pelow : 

Shree Vidyacharan Shukla (Respondent 1 ) — 56 ,664 . 
Shree Khubchand Baghel ( Pelitloner ) - 53, 872 . 
Shree Dharmjcct Singh (Respondent No . 3 — 23 , 889 . 
Shree Ramsingh ( Respondent No. 4 ) — 14 ,532 . 

Shree Indradeo Tandon (Respondent No. 2 ) - 9 , 138 . 
4 . In the aforesaid election the Petitioner represented the Praja Socialist Party , 
the Respondent No . 1 represented the Congress Party , the Respondent No. 3 repre 
sented the Ram - Rajya Parishad , the Respondent No. 4 represented the Jan Sangh 
and Respondent No. 2 represented the Republic Party , 

5 . The respondent No. 1 to prejudice the prospects of the petitioner s election 
published in the name of Shree Tikamchand Jain a pamphlet , in Ilindi, niorked 
hercwith as ANNEXURE - I.* The respondent No. 1 himself as also his agents and 
workers with his consent distributed the said pamphlet in the whole Constituency 
between the 16th and 23rd February 1962. 

6 . Shrce Tikamchand Jain in whose name the said pamphlet was published is 
Secretary of Mandal Congress Committee, Mahasamund , and was an important 
agent and worker of Respondent No. 1 . The pamphlet was published in the name 
of Shrec Jelni with full consent and knowledge oť Respondent No. 1 . in ctfect at 
was a publication by Respondent No. 1 in the name of Shree Tikamchand Jain . 

7 . The said pamphlet in the last two paras contains statement of iets relating 
to the personal character and conduct of petitioner . In particular, the pamphle 
states: 
Translated from Hindi, 
( i) " Shree Khubchand Baghel for his own ends levelled false and filthy 

charges against respected and honoured leader ( late Pandit Ravi Shan 
ker Shukla ) which were published from time to time in the Blitz , a 
newspaper of Communist Party . During the course of proceedings for 
defamation when occasion arose for proving the charges Shree Baghel 
backed out and the Newspaper Blitz on 26th of January 1982, the Re 
public day , publicly and unconditionally apologised for publishing 
false and deceitful charges made by this leader . But Shree Baghel is 
habitual in such conduct and he knows that his political status is 

based on such groundleys foundation , 
( 11 ) " Shree Khubchand Baghel was President of the Reception Committee of 

Betul Praja Socialist Party Conference . Shree Khubchand Baghel has 
not yet furnished account of Rs. 16 , 000 which were raised as subscrip 
tion for the conference although the reception committee has been 
repeatedly demanding the accounts . Where has this money gone ? 
Having known these facts you ( Voters ) can yourself decide as to how 
far such unscrupulous leader and party can beneſlt you or the con 

stituency . 
8 . It is entirely false that the potitioner levelled any charges or made any 
allegations regarding Pandit Ravishanker Shukla which were published in the 
Blitz . The Blitz in its issue dated 20th July 1957 published certain allegations 
against pandit Ravishanker Shukla which were reported to have been made bly 
Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia , tho Socialist Leader in one of his speeches made in the 
First week of July 1957 at Delhi and Dr. S . M . Hasan on earlier occasions. The 
respondent No . 1 who is one of the sons of Pandit Shukla has filed a suit being 
suit No. 12B of 58 in the Court of Civil Judge, Jabalpur for delamation against 
Dr . Lohia , and Editor and staff correspondent of Blitz . The petitioner had nothing 
to do with the making or reporting of the said charges of allegations against Pt. 
Shukla or with the sult Aled by respondent No. 1 . He was not approached or cal 
led upon by any one to substantiate these charges or allegations nor was there 
any question of his backing out from proving the charges or allegations. As al 
ready stated the petitioner was wholly unconnected and unconcerned with any 
charges or allegations against Pandit Shukla published in BLITZ as also with the 

* Not Printed 


t646 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ·MAY 12 , 1962/VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


Part II 


defamation case Aled against Dr Lohla and Blit . The respondent No 1 as also 
his agent and worker Tikamchand Jain knew that the statement of facts made in 
the pamphlet in this respect are false By making this false statement the respon 
derit No 1 attacked the petitioner s personal conduct and character in that the 
petitioner made false and Althy allegations against late Pandit Shukla whose me 
mory is much honoured and respected in the Constituency , has now backed out in 
substantiating them , has thus put the Blitz in trouble and that the petitioner is 
habitual in such conduct. 

9 It is also false that the petitioner was President of the Reception Committee 
of Betul Praja Socialist Party Conference The petitioner was never eritrusted 
with a sum of Rs 16 ,000 / - or any sum in respect of that conference nor was any 
account demanded from him by the reception Committee or any one The Respon 
dent No 1 and his agent and worker Shrce Tlkamchand Jain knew that the alle 
gations made in this respect in the said Pamphlet are false or at any rate they did 
not believe it to be true By making these false allegations the respondent No 1 
attacked the personal character and conduct of petitioner and falsely suggested 
that the petitioner has been guilty of misappropriating a suin of Rs 0 ,000 / 
raised by subscription for the Betul Praja Socialist Party Conference . 

10 The aforesaid statements of facts made in the pamphlet as already stated 
related to the personal character and conduct of the petitioner , were false to the 
knowledge of respondent No 1 and Shree Tıkamchand Jain , the Agent and worker 
of respondent No. 1, and also to the knowledge of other agents and workers of 
respondent No 1, who distributed the pamphlet with the consent of respondent 
No. 1 The allegations were reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects of 
the petitioner s election The respondent No 1 , his agent Shree Tıkamchand Jain 
as also other agents and workers of Respondent No 1 distributing the pamphlet 
were guilty of corrupt practice under Section 123 ( 4 ) of RP Act, 1951. 
11 The perticulars of the corrupt practice are as follow 
( A ) The pamphlet- - Annexure- 1 - to the petition was printed at Saraswati 

Printing Press Mahasamund in the name of Shree Tikamchand Jain 

who is shown as publisher 
( B ) The said pamphlet was distributed in the entire constituency by res 

pondent No i himself and his agents and workers with his consent 
details of distribution at a few places which could be gathered at the 
time of drafting the petition are given below : - - 


Names of persons 


Places of distribution 


Date of 
Distri 
bution 


16 - 2 -62 


18 - 2 -62 


22 - 2 -62 
17 -2 - 62 


19- 2 -62 


I . Shree Vidyacharan Shukla , Res Village Birkoni, (Mahasamund Assembly 
pondent No I ) 

Constitucncy ) 
Village Tamora 
(Mahasamund Assembly Constituency ) 

Town Mahasamund 
(ii) Tıkamchand Jain rlo Maha Town Mahasamund 

gamund 
(ini ) Rameshchandra Shukla s / o Village Rajım 

Ambika Charan Shukla , nep - (Rajim Assembly Constituei cy ) 
hew of Respondent No I 

Town Sarangarh 
(10 ) Ram Ratan Nayak r /o Baram - In all the villages of polling station , baram 
kela , 

kela 

(Puasorc Constituency) 
In all the villages of polling station , Tausir 

(Pussore Constitucncy ) 
In all the villages of polling station , Kha - 

khanni. 
(Pussore Constituency ) 
In all the villages of polling station , Kanthi 

Palı , 
(Pussore instituency ) 


15 - 2 -62 
15 - 2 -62 


16 - 2 -62 
17 -2 - 62 


18 - 2 -62 


SFC . 8( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1647 


Names of persons 


Places of distribution 


Date of 
Distribution 


(v ) Het Ram Pandit r o Dansura. Village Dansara in Sarungarh Constituency 16 -2 -62 

Town of Sarangarh , 
( vi) Janki Prasad Mehar r /o Rai In all the villages of polling station , Tarckcla. 15 -2 -62 
garlı , 

Pussore Constituency ) 
In ull the villages of polling station , Jam - 16 -2 -62 

dalka. 

(Pussore Constituency ) 
( vii) Prithi Palsingh r /o Raigarh . Town Besangurlı . . 

17 - 2 -62 
(viii) Keshavchandra Gupta ro In all the villages of polling station , Badç 18 -2- 62 
Bale - Nawapara 

Nawarara . 
(Pussore Constituency ). 
In all the villages of polling station , Khajra - 17 - 2 -62 

garhi. 
( Pussore Constituency ) 
In all the villages of polling station , Khori 28 - 2 -62 

gaon . 

(Pussore Constituency ) 
(ix ) MohanlalNayak r /o IInthi In all the villages of polling station , Kanthi 17 - 2 -62 
I apali. 

Pali. 
(Pussore Constituency) 
In all the villages of polling station , Hirri. 18 - 2 -62 

(Pussure Constituency ) 
(x ) Suresh Prasad Pandey rlo In all the villages of polling station , Bud 16 - 2 -62 
Parpada . 

buda . 
(Pussore Constitucncy ) 
In all the villages of polling station , Nadigaon 17- 2-62 

and Lukurar . 
(Pussore Constituency ). 


12 . The election of the returned candidate , the respondent No. 1 Shree Vidya 
rharan Shukla is vold because of corrupt practice committed by him his agents 
and workers with his consent, as stated above . 

13 . The corrupt practice as detailed above was committed at such an extensive 
scale that but for the votes obtained by the returned candidate by corrupt prac 
tires the petitioner would have obtained a majority of the valid votes. 

14 . A security deposit of Rs . 2 ,000 / - has been made as required by Section 117 
of the R . P . Act. 
PRAYER 
The Petitioner claims: 
( i) A declaration that the election of returned candidate Shree Vidya Cha 

ran Shukla , respondent No . 1 , is vold : 
( ii) Any other relief that may in the circumstances of the case be deemed 

At and Proper . 


KHUBCHAND BACHEL. 


Raipur: 9 - 4 - 1962 . 
VERIFICATION 


I . Khubchand Baghel, s / o Judawan Singh , resident of Tatyanapara , Raipur, 
Madhya Pradesh , declare that the contents of paras 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 7 , 8 , 9 and 14 of the 
petition are true within my personal knowledge and the contents of paras 5 , 6 , 
10 , 11, 12 and 13 are believed by mę on credible inforzation received to be 
correct. 

Signed and verified at Raipur on this 9th day of April 1962 . 


KHUBCHAND BAGIEL, Petitioner. 


1648 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


PART II 


Enclosures: 

1 . Pamphlet marked - Annexure- 1 . 
2 . Receipt of security deposit of Rs. 2 ,000 / 
3 . Affidavit in support of corrupt practices . 
4 . Five extra copies of petition , Annexure- l and Affidavil. 

KHUBCHAND BAGHEL , Petitioner . 

[No. 82 / 258 /62.] 


New Delhi, the 7th May 1962 
S . O . 1386 , - In pursuance of thc provisions of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 86 of 
the Representation of the People Act . 1951, the Election Commission hereby 
publishes a copy of the Election Petition No. 324 of 1962, presented to the Com 
mission on the 16th April, 1962 , under section 81 of thr said Act , by Shri Sardar 
Mal son of Shri Jorawar Mal, Advocate , Dhaddhon Ka Bagh , Moti Dungari Road , 
Jaipur, calling in question the election to the House of the People from the 
Jaipur constituency of that House of Shrimati Gayatri Devi wilę gi Maharaja 
Man Singhji , Rajmahal, Jalpur . 

THE ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA NEW DELHI. 

ELECTION PETITION No. 324 OF 1962 

Relating to Jaipur constituency of Lok Sabha 
Sardar Mal S / o Zorawarmal, Advocate Dhaddhon Ka Bagh Moti Dungari 
Road , Jaipur City . - Petitioner , 

Versus 
Smt. Gayatri Devi W / o Maharaja Man Singhfi Rajmahal Jaipur. - Respondent. 

Election Petition under Sec . 80 & 81 of the Representation of the Peoples Act 
1951 in relation to the election to Lok Sabha from Jaipur Parliamentary Constitu 
ency held on 1st March , 1962 . 

May It please your Honour, 
The Petitioner begs to submit as under : 

1. " That the petitioner is an elector enrolled at No . 607 Part 66 Block 7 of 
Johri Bazar Assembly Constituency Jaipur of the Parliamentary constituency of 
Jaipur . 

2 . That the respondent is a returned candidate having being declared elected on 
1st March 1962 to the Lok Sabha from Jaipur Parliamentary Constitucncy . 

3 . That the respondent is the wife of the Maharaja of Jaipur who has been the 
Rajpramukh of Rajasthan . 

4 . That the election of the respondent to the Lok Sabha is vold on account of 
the following grounds : amongs others : — 

( a ) That the respondent her agents and supporters with her consent committed 
the corrupt practice of bribery as specified in Sec. 123 ( i ) of the Representation of 
the Peoples Act, inasmuch as they induced the voters of Jaipur City Amer Sam 
bher and other villages to vote for the respondent by giving them sweets and 
drinks, by paying illegal gratification and offering to the temples their priests and 
pujaris. Yaganas were also organised at several places and rewards were distri 
buted to the Brahamans in the form of Dakshina . The Particulars and instances 
of this corrupt practice are given in Annexure A . 

( b ) That the respondent her agents and supporters with her consent engaged 
religious priests and pufaris of temples who propagated amongst the illiterate peo 
ple in the name of religion . There was systematic appeal made to the electors that 
" Ashtagrah Yog " i. e . eight plannet combination had set in and they would perrist 
it the stars are not pleased Maharani. the respondent who had star as her symbol 
and as such had stars with her , could save them if she is pleased . She was a 

Goddesstat" . They further made a false propaganda that the respondent was 
sure to win and if the electors did not vote for her Wrath of God will fall on them . 
They can be saved from the evil effects of the Ashtagrah Yog only when the 
respondent comes in power after she is elected . 

Religious ceremony i. e . the Vagnas were organised by the respondent her agents 
and supporters in the temples of Tarkeshwarji, Dinanathji and Govindevji in 


BRO . B( 11 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 / VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1649 


Jaipur City amongs many others and at Amer , Phagi, Sambher , Dodu and various 
other places between 27th Januray, 1962 and 10th of February and the Pujaris 
Prients and Mahants of these temples made a systematic appeal in the name of 
religion to vote for the respondent. Due to this propaganda the electors could not 
excercise their free wlll and were unduely influenced to vote for the respondent. 

That the respondent was always accompanied by Jagirdurs and Thakhurs who 
went in Jeeps with her fully armed and canvassed for her . They 
amongs the voters who argued with them and threaten them to vote for the respon 

created terror 
dent. Thakur Bhanu Pratap Singh of Dudu , Thakur of Mehlan and Thakur of 
Jobner actually thcaten the residents of their Jagir areas with dire consequences it 
they did not vote for the respondent. 

Thus the respondent is guilty of the corrupt practice of undue influence as 
Specified in Sec , 123 Sub -Section 2 of the representation of the Peoples Act . 

( c ) That the respondent and her husband summoned the Ex - Jagirdars and 
Thakurs of the erstwhile Jalpur State and a meeting of all these were held in the 
City Palace Jaipur where all these Rajputs were given vow to support the respon 
dent. An appeal was made in the meeting that the election of the respondent was 
a prestige question for the entire Rajput community and if they have Rajput blood 
in them they should be prepared to sacrifics every thing for this election . This 
Vow was taken by taking a sword in hand by everybody who was present in the 
meeting. This mecting was held in the last week of January. Şimllar type of meet 
Ings were organised in Dudu , Jobner, Chome during the period between 1st and 
10th of February , Consequently all the Jagirdars and Rajputs carried on a propa 
ganda on the basis of community that they would vote and would canvass support 
for the respondent. 

Thus the respondent her agents and supporters with her consent made appeals 
In the name of castes and community to vote for the respondent and thus the 
respondent is guilty of the corrupt practises mentioned in Sub -Clause 3 of Sec . 123 
of the representation of the Peoples Act . 

( d ) That the respondent her agents and supporters with her consent hired and 
procured vehicles for carrying the voters to the polling stations from their regl 
dences. Electors were actually carrycd in such vehicles and therefore , the cor 
rupt practice as specified in Sec . 123 of the Representations of Peoples Act was 
committed by the respondent. The particulars of the corrupt practice are detail 
ed in Annexure B . 

( e ) That the respondent had committed the corrupt practice as specified in 
Sec . 123 Sub -Section 6 in as much as the expences actually incurred or authorised 
by her have exceeded the prescribed limits the respond - nt has spent less but hag 
Aled a return showing only Rs. 19 thousands as the actual expenses incurred by 
her . The respondent has not shown many items of her expenditure which were 
actually incurred and much less has been shown in other items. The particulars 
are given in Annexure C . 

5 . That the above mentioned corrupt practices have extensively prevalled in 
the chostituency and but for these corrupt practices the respondent could not 
succeed , 

6 . The Petitioner contends that the election of the respondent is void and the 
petition is fled with in limitation and the security deposit of Rs. 2 ,000 has been 
made in the name of the Election Commission . The receipt of paying is attached 
herewith , 
It is therefore, prayed that 
1 . The Election Petition be accepted and the election of the respondent to 

the Lok Sabha be set aside and fresh election be ordered , 
2. Costs of the petition be awarded , 
3 . The respondent be held guilty of having committed the corrupt practices 

detailed above and be disqualified , 
4 . Any other relief which may be deemed At may be awarded . 
Delhi - Dt. 16 -4 - 1962. 

Sd .) - SARDAR MAL , 

Petitioner, 


1650 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 / VAISAKIIA 22 , 1884 


[Part It 


VERIFICATION 
I, Sardar Mal S / o Zoraver Mal resident of Moti Dungri, Road , Jaipur, verity 
on oath that the contents of paragraphs 1 to 6 with their Sub -paragraphs are true 
to the best of my knowledge and belief and information received from friends 
which I considered to be true. 
Verified at Delhi, on 16 - 4- 1962. 

Sd./ - SARDAR MAL , 

Petitioner . 


ANNEXURE A 


1 . The respondent, her agents and supporters with her consent organised 
Yagnas during the period between 28th January and 10th February in the temples 
of Tarkeshwarji, Dinanathji , Govindevji in Jaipur City and at Amer , Phagi , 
Sambher , Dudu and several other places. She visited all these places on different 
dates and made offerings to the temple and subscribed towards these Yagnas . 
The Priests who had assembled their in large number were paid rewards and 
they blessed the respondent. 

2 . The respondent, her agents and supporters with her consent distributed 
wine bottles and sweets to the voters in Jaipur City on the night of 20th February 
and on 21st February 1. e . on the polling date Laddus were distributed on all the 
polling stations of Jaipur City on behalf of the respondent. 


3 . The respondent and his agents employed about 2 ,000 workers to vote and 
convess for the respondent on the promise that they would be patd Rs. 3 to 5 
per day as reward . They were actually paid for the period they worked between 
26th January, 1962 to 26th February , 1962 . 


4 . That it was a part of the propaganda of the respondent that the grain 
would be made cheaper if the voters voted for her . In fourthernce of the pros 
pectus of her election , the respondent her agents and supporters with her consent 
got cheap grain shop opened in Chandpur Bazar and Atish In Jaipur City on or 
about the 15th of February where cheap grain was sold to the electors and at 
the very same time the person was extreçting a promise from them that they 
would vote for the respondent. Such shops were also opened in Sambher and 
other places . 


5 . That the respondent on or about the 15th of February visited village 
Mamada and promised to pay a sum of Rs. 2 , 000 to the Agrawal community for 
constructions of their schools. The respondent paid Rs. 500 on the very day and 
Rs. 1500 were paid after 2 or 3 days through Shri Bhanu Pratap Singh of Dudu 
who was her agent, 

6 . The respondent her agents and supporters paid different amount in the 
form of offerings to the temples named above between 27th January to 10th 
February, 1962 . She promised to give silver doors to the temple of the Dinanathjt. 

VERIFICATION 
I Sardar Mal s / o Zorawar Mal verity on oath that what stated above in 
Annexure A is correct to the best of my knowledge and Information which I 
believe to be true. 
Delhi-- Dt. 16 -4 -1962 . 

Sd. ) - SARDAR MAL , 

Petitioner. 
ANNEXURE B 
The respondent procured all the people of her husband s garage and were all 
used to bring the voters. 

2 . The respondent procured and hired at least 100 Tongas in which the votery 
were taken to the polling stations in Jaipur City . Among others the respondent 
procured Jeep No . RJL 6324 , RJL 8373 , RJL 2484 , RJL 4048 , RJL 4064, these 
vehicle carried the voters to the polling stations in home area. 

3 . The respondent, her agents and supporters with her consent procured Jeep 
No, RJQ 3244 and RJL 375 and Taxi Tongas of Ajmer No. 483, 488 , 475 and 18 
for carriage of the voters and these vehicles actually carried the voters to polling 


SEO. 8(it )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1651 


stations No. 30 and 31 in Amer . There are several other instances which will 
be added afterwards 

VERIFICATION 
I, Sardar Mal S / o Zorawar Mal resident of Moti Dungri Road , Jaipur , verify 
on oath that the contents of the above paragraphs are true to the best of my 
knowledge and beliet and information which I consider to be true . 
Delhi-- Dt. 16 - 4 - 1962. 

( Sd.) SARDAR MAL 

Petitioner . 
ANNEXURE C 


The respondent freely distributed plastic badges bearing the symbol of the 
respondent and the actual expenditure according to the petitioner comes to 
about Rs. 30 , 000 but the respondent has shown m her return a meagre sum of 
Rs. 265 . 90 saya paisa . 

2 . The respondent got a big bold installed in the temple of Govindevji in 
which through electric automatic contrivance . It was explained as to how a yoter 
will cast vote in favour of the respondent. The manufacturing cost of this as 
well as the electricity charges cannot be less than Rs. 3 ,000 but no expenditure 
in this regard has been shown by the respondent . 

3 . The respondent at Şargasuli Jalpur and at various other places got an 
installation of electric neon signs of the respondent symbol but no expenditure 
in this regard also has been shown . The petitioner estimates that at least 
1 ,000 Rs. must have been spent on this item , 

4 . The respondent and her agents hired about 1, 000 cycles on Re. 1 per day . At 
least Rs. 20,000 must have been spent on this item which is omitted in the 
expenses, 

5 . The respondent employed about 4 , 000 paid workers on the polling dates 
and 1, 000 generally for a period of one month at a rate of Rs. 3 to 5 per day 
but no expenditure on this item has been shown. According to the petitioner 
atleast 25 ,000 Rs. must have been spent on this item . 


6 . The respondent engaged Lawyers S / Shri Chiranji Lal Agarwal, C , N . 
Sharma, Ladli Lal and others for legal advice in the matter of Aling nomination 
and scrutiny. The fees which is 5 ,000 minimum paid to the lawyers has not been 
shown in the expenses . 

7 . The respondent offered at least Rs. 1 ,00 , 000 ag charities in the form of 
offerings to the temples, donations to the Schools and other institutions, Dakshinas 
( Rewards) to the Pandit ctc ., has been omitted . 

8 . The respondent invited cinema actors namely , Prem Nath and others, but 
the expenses incurred in their travelling and boarding loadging have not been 
Included in the return of the expenses . According to the estimates of the peti 
tioner the respondent must have spent at least 5 , 000 rupees on this item . 

9 . The respondent has not included any expenditure with regard to the public 
meetings, processions, receptions, erection of arches , stages and on mikes and 
loud speakers . The respondent held at least 50 big meetings and about 100 small 
meetings . According to the petitioner not less than 5 ,000 rupees must have been 
spent on this item , 

10 . The respondent employed a drama party consisting of about 15 actors and 
actresses who went from place to place and staged dramas to canvass support 
for the respondent. They went in a lorry of the Rajmahal and their travelling 
and other expense cannot be estimated at less than 25 , 000 rupecs. But this big 
Item has been omitt : d from the return of the election expenses . 

11. At least 100 tongas in Jaipur and large number in other towns and 
similarly about 100 other vehicles were hired by the respondent, but only 4 or 
8 have been shown in the return . In the same way the cost of Petrol and Mobiloil 
paid by the respondent is much higher than the amount shown in the return . The 
respondent must have spent at least more than Rs. 20 . 000 on the petrol, oil and 
hire of these vehicles , but only a meagre sum has been shown in the return , 


1652 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 / VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


[Part II 


12. That the respondent, her agents and supporters got the name, symbol with 
a request to vote for her bearing the name of the respondent painted on boards 
and at various places numbering ahout 5 ,000 in Jaipur City and all villages and 
towns by means of water and oil painting. The expenditure on one buard cannot 
be less than Rs. 5 . Besides , several flags with Star mark and blue cloth bearing 
the symbol of the respondent were freely distributed to the tongas, rikhshas , 
shop -keepers and all the town , and ! ! vi the constituency . The expenditure 
on this item is not less than Rs. 5 , 000 . Thus in all Rs. 25 , 000 have been incurred 
on the publicity through painted boards. 

13 . That expenditure in regard to posters, bookluts, hand bills etc. is shown 
much less . 

Besides , the above the several other heads under which the expenditure was 
incurred or authorised by the respondent, but much less has been shown . 


That the return Ale by the respondent is false and the actual expenditure has 
exceeded the prescribed limits . 

VERIFICATION 
I Sardar Mal S / o Shri Jorawar Mal, Advocate resident of Moti Dungri Road , 
Jalpur, verify on oath that the contents of Annexure C stated above are true 
to the best of my knowledge and information which I think to be true , 

(Sd .) SARDAN MAL , 

Petitioner . 
Delhi - Dt. 184 -1982. 


[No. 82 / 324 / 82 . ] 

By Order 
K . K . SETHI, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 5th May 1962 
S . O . 1387. — In pursuance of the provisions of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 86 of 
the Representation of the People Act , 195 ) , the Election Commission hereby pub 
lishes a copy of the Election Petition No . 216 of 1962, presented to the Commission 
on the 12th April, 1962 , under section 81 of the said Act, bly Shri Patel Chhotabhai 
Desaibhai, Resident of Ajarpura , Taluka Anand, District Kaira, Gujarat State , cal 
ling in question the election to the House of the People from the Anand consti 
tuency of that House of Shri Narendrasinhji Ranjitsinhji Mahida , Resident of 
Baroda , Vishrambag , Laxml- Villas Place Compound Baroda , District Baroda . 
Gujarat State . 
BEFORE THE ELECTION COMMISSION , NEW DELHI 

ELECTION PETITION No. 216 OF 1962 

DISTRICT : KAIRA 
In the matter of the representation of the People Act, 1951. 

AND 
In the matter of the conduct of Election Rules. 1961, 

AND 
In the matter of the Election to the House of the People, Anand Parllamentary 
Constituency . 

AND 
In the matter of calling in question the Election of Shri Narendrasinhji 
Ranjitsinhji Mahida. 

Patel Chhotabhai Desaibhai aged 51 years residing at Ajarpura , Taluka 
Anand, District Kalra , Gujarat State - Petitioner . 

Versus 
1. Shri Narendrasinhji Ranjitsinhji Mahida, aged 49 ycars, residing at Baroda . 

2 , Maniben Vallavbhai Patel, aged 60 years, residing at Navjiwan Karyalay, 
Ahmedabad , Opponents . 

THE HUMBLE PETITION OF THE PETITIONER ABOVENAMED . 
Most respectfully showeth : 

1 . That the petitioner is a citizen and a national of India , and is an ordinary 
resident of village Ajarpura in Kaira District. That the petitioner is an elector 


SEC . ( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1653 


in relation to the House of People, Anand Parliamentary Constituency in Kaira 
District . The name of the petitioner has been registered in the electoral roll of 
village Ajarpura of the said Constituency . The petitioner is not subject to any 
of the disqualification mentioned in $ . 16 of th - Representation of the People Act , 
1950 (hereinafter referred to as the Act of 1950 ) or under any other law . That 
the petitioner was over 25 years of age on the qualifying date . The petitioner 
was entitled to vote at the general election of the parliamentary seat to the 
House of the People held on 21st, 23rd and 25th February , 1962 in the said 
Constituency . 

2 . That Respondent Nos, 1 and 2 had Aled thelr nominations for a seat in the 
House of the People for the Anand Parliamentary Constituency (hereinafter 
referred to as the said Constituency ) in Kaira District of Gujarat State . The 
Anand Parliamentary Constituency consisted of the area comprised of the 
following: 

Parliamentary Constituency , Anand 


Date of Poll 


Scrial No , and Name of 
Parliamentary Constiru 

ency 


Sr, No. and Name of 
Assembly Constituency 


? 14 . Anand 


. 


. 


. 


. 


z3rd February , 1962 
21st February , 1962 
25th February, 1962 
21st February , 1962 
25th February , 1962 
23rd February, 1962 
23rd February, 1962 


go Dhandhuka 
91 Umreth 
92 Anand 
93 Sunav 
94 Petlad 
97 Cambay 
98 Matar 


. 


. 


The said Constituency was a single inember constituency . The nomination 
papers of the Respondents Nos . 1 and 2 were accepted by the Returning Officer 
on 22nd January , 1962 . The Respondent No. 1 was nominated as a candidate by 
the Swatantra Party . The Symbol chosen by the Swatantra Party for the elec 
tion was Star . This Symbol was recognised by the Election Commission and as 
such the Star was thc Symbol of the Respondent No. 1. The Respondent No. 2 was 
a candidate of the Congress Party and the Symbol of the Congress candidate 
consisted of two bullocks with yoke on . That the Respondent Nos . 1 and 2 were 
the only contesting candidates . That the election took place on the dates specified 
hereinabove in thn respective Assembly Constituency . The result of the said 
election was declared by the Returning Officer on the 1st March , 1962 at Kaira . 
That the Respondent No. 1 secured 1,69,116 votes as against 1 ,46 , 387 votes secured 
by th . Respondent No. 2 and he was declared elected by the Returning Officer 
by a majority of 22 , 729 votes . That the Anand Parliamentary Constituency is of 
4 ,69,662 voters . The petitioner says that nearly 60 per cent voters out of the said 
number of voters belong to Kshatriya Community . In the Umreth Assembly 
Constituency there are 31, 944 Kshatriya Voters out of a total of 79, 932 voters . In 
the Anand Assembly Constituency there arc 30 ,493 Kshatriya Voters out of a 
total of 75 ,792 voters. 


3 . The petitioner says that the Respondent No. 1 and one Shri Natversinhji 
Keshari Sinhji Solanki, and Bhagwansinhji Chhasthia (hereinafter referred to 
as the said " Solanki" and the said " Chhasthia " ) are the recognised heads and 
leaders of eminence of the Kshatriya Community ( hereinafter refirred to as the 
said community ) in Kaira District as well as in the Gujarat. Their followers 
attach great value to their orders and instructions and respect thcir word with 
sanctity . Their orders, instructions and requests were and are even treated as 
religious commands. 


4 . That they addressed several meetings of their followers and appealed to 
them that it was the primary " DHARMA " of all their followers to help the 
candidature of the Respondent No, l as his Bhandhavas. The Respondent No. 1 , 
the said Shri Solanki and Chastia gave " FARMAN " to all the Kshatriya voters 
of the said constituency to vote for the Arst Respondent on the ground of rell 
glon , caste and community . The petitioner says that Shri Solanki and Shri 
Chhastia were the agents and active supporters of the first Respondent and they 
were acting with the consent of the Respondent No. 1. 


1654 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKIJA 22. 1884 


[ PART II 


5 . That the Respondent No. 1 released a statement ( Nivedan ) under his signa 
ture under the caption " I HAVE LEFT CONGRESS TO CONVEY THE VOICE 
OF THE PEOPLE " . The petitioner sets out the following excerpts as indicating 
the author s drift: 

" I am not ashamed of being a kshatriya . I say it with pride yes , I am a 
kshatriya, a descendant of the courageous and the brave kshatriyas such as Ram 
and Krishna ; I am a descendant of religious prophets like Budha and Mahavir . 
I am the heir of great personages of their Age with luşture of kshatriya ( Prince 
ly ) class likc Gandhiji and Sardar. He is a kshatriya who obsryes the 
KSHATRA DHARMA - DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF KSHATRIYA and thus 
anybody can become a kshatriya . Is it a sin or a stigma to become a kshatriya 
in this country ? No , we ure kshatriyas and have remained the defenders of the 
people . We know how to win kingdom and throne and it is only we who know 
to renounce it . The wholc history of India bcars witness to th same. I am a 
kshatriya and as kshatriyas are my BANDHAVAS , surely they (kshatriya ) would 
support me is obvious and natural. Lord Krishna lifted the mount Govardhan 
for the protection of the people but it received supports of sticks by cvery one 
of the Gopalag shepherds; so shall I want your support. There is no doubt that 
all the troubles will vanish if you make that support available . 

I enjoin upon every kshatriya to become a good kshatriya and I ask every 
Brahmin to become a good Brahmin . The four class system ( Varnas ) of our 
society is unparallel in the whole world . If people attain the best virtues by 
means of their respective qualities and action , then they can become illustrious 
citizens of the country . In that way our national character can be maintained 
and it may also shine; if somebody asks you to cease to be a kshatriya it pains 
me so much that I cannot describe it. We may be poor , but on that account we 
are not disheartened , nor shall we be so in future . Poverty is not a thing to be 
ashamed of. It is enough for us if we are not repressed or are not led away 
by other s influence . I, therefore , say do not lose courage and have faith . Faith 
is the only true strength . This is the time of our test. But we have no other 
go but have to cross it over . 

Who said that we wanted to regain our kingdom throne ? Mr, Nehru is al 
ways worried about it, but I assure him that we the kshatriya never think of 
regalning them once the kingdoms and thrones have been given over . But we 
shall not tolerate if the undeserving persons come to ascend that throne, claiming 
to be the masters ; we have never surrendered to injustice nor shall we do so , 
this is our pledge. This is our vow ; and the same is our support . It is my wish 
that people in this country may cultivate courage. Their bodies become energe 
tic and strong. Their sentiments may remain true and selfless . Nobody may 
interrupt their affairs without rhyme or reason . Their agriculture may continue 
to be prosperous. Shri C . Rajagopalachari has made an auspicious beginning 
by founding a new party throughout the country . Bhaikaka has started beating 
the Rannobat . Bravo ; invitations are at our doors ; we have got an opportunity 
to maintain the reputation of our forefathers; The swatantra party has warned 
us; and encouraged by patting our backs; we have to give them support. So 
let us plunge in . Come out, victory is ours." Marked Annexure " A " is the said 
statement, tru ? translation into English of the said statement is annexed here 
with . Marked Annexure " A1" is daily newspaper containing statement of the 
first Respondent. The petitioner craves leave to refer to and rely on the said 
statement as if its contents are specifically set out herein . 

6. In the said statement the Respondent No. 1 had directly appealed to 
kshatriya to support his candidature as a kshatriya . That the said appeal to 
the said community is made with the object of using it as direct inducement to 
vote for respondent No . 1 himself and to refrain from voting for any other person 
on the ground of his religion , race , caste and community for the furtherance of 
the prospects of his election and for prejudicially affecting the election of the 
Respondent No. 2 . The tenor of the statement is to appeal the voters as mem 
bers of caste and / or community to vote for the Respondent No. 1. 

7 . The petitioner says that the said statement of the Respondent No. 1 was 
also intended to promote feeling of enmity and / or hatred between different 
classes of Indian citizen on the ground of religion , race , caste and community for 
the furtherance of the prospects of his , election and for prejudicially affecting 
the election of the Respondent No. 2 . The Respondent No . 1 also wanted the 
voters to get prejudice against Congress Candidate . 

8 . The petitioner says that the Respondent No. 1 along with his agents and 
supporters with the consent of the Respondent No, 1 carried on propaganda by 
widely circulating the said statement, by orally saying the contents of it to the 


Sec . $ (11 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


1655 


voters at the public meetings and otherwise and also by publishing the same in 
the daily paper Swatantra Sarjan , dated 20th February , 1962, throughout the 
length and breadth of the constituency and in particular Anand, Vadod , Napad , 
Umreth , Kunjrao, Ode, Ahima, Kasor, Khambolaj, Khankhanpur, Khankuva, 
Tarnol, Dagajipara , Dhureta , Partapura , Neghava , Ratanpura , Rasnol, Lingada, 
Pansora , Samarkha, Sarasa , Sili, Sureli, Sundalpura , Saiyadpura , Kamijpura , 
Adas, Karmsad , Chikhodra , Gamdi, Jor, Navali, Bakrol, Boriavi, Mogar, Ram 
nagar, Rambhvel, Vagashasi, Valasan , Vera , Sandesar , Sundan , Hadgul, Ankla 
vadi, Cambay and villages around Cambay , Petlad, and villages around it , 
Sundarna, Vadadala , Pandori, Paraj, Sunay and villags around it and Matar as 
well as other villages around Matar , to effect that since the Respondent No. 1 
is a " KSHATRIYA " , their community voters should vote for him . That the said 
propaganda was carried on to appeal the voters of the said community on the 
ground of his religion , caste and community to further the prospects of the 
Respondent No. 1 s election who was a Kshatriya, and to refrain the voters from 
voting for the Respondent No. 2 , who was not a Kshatriya . 

9 . The petitioner says that the tenor of the statement made by the Respondent 
No. 1 was such that it was in fact and intent calculated to appeal the voters of 
the said community to vote for him on the ground of his religion , caste and 
community and to excite caste and communal feelings. At the end of the said 
statement the expression " JAI SOMNATH " has been used which has historically 
acquired a special meaning and great religious efficacy and significance . " JAI 
SOMNATH " Is the titular God of Kshatriyas . A kshatriya would offer his life 
in the name of God Somnath . The said word is used for exciting kshatriyas in 
the name of religion . The Respondent No . 1 has in his statement used the said 
slogan in that context. I lle use of the words " JAI ŞOMNATH ” was intended to 
excite religious feelings and also to promote feelings of hatred between differ 
ent classes of citizens of India on ground of religion , race, caste or community 
and thereby induced the voters of his community to vote for him . It was a 
systematic appeal by the Respondent No. 1 to vote for him on the ground of his 
religion , race, caste and community , for the furtherance of the prospects of his 
election and for prejudicially affecting the election of the Respondent No . 2 . 

10 . That the circulation of the said statement in the constituency in the man 
ner stated hereinabove and otherwise had greatly affected the prospect of Res 
pondent No . 2 from being elected and had interfered with the free exercise of 
the electoral rights of the voters in his constituency . The petitioner says that 
the circumstances under which and the context in which the said statement was 
made, it was a direct compelling inducement on the voters which was intended 
to interfere with the free exercise of clectoral rights . The voters, majority of 
whom were ignorant, illiterate villagers were susceptible to such propaganda and 
have been unduly influenced by such direct compelling appeal. The petitioner 
says the above practices amount to corrupt practice within the meaning of sec 
tion 123 of the Act of 1951. 

11. The said appeal was further accelerated by another appeal in the name 
of religion and religious symbol. This appeal was carried on by the Respondent 
No. 1 , his agents and others with the consent of the Respondent No. 1 by the 
use of religious symbol in several leaflets by saying that the " SWATANTRA 
PARTY " carried the emblem of Star of “DHRUVA " which represents the five 
qualities of being eternal, firm , guide , resolute and devoted to religion which 
are cgually the virtues of kshatriya and as such they should vote for Respond 
ent No . 1. The said symbol was used for inducing Hindus as well to vote for 
Respondent No. 1 in the name of religion , The Respondent No. 1, his agents and 
supporters with the consent of Respondent No. 1 gave a religious impetus to it 
and thus obtained votes of Hinduş by appealing the voters to vote on the ground 
of religion and by use or appeal to religious symbol. Marked Collectively 
Annexure B ( 1 ) to B (6 ) are the leflets. 

12 . The aforesaid appeals were carried on by Respondent No. 1 , his agents 
and others with his and their consent by oral propaganda and by circulation of 
statements & leaflets . The said appeals amount to corrupt practice within the 
meaning of section 123 of the Act of 1951 and that the said corrupt practice 
adopted by the Respondent No. 1, his agents and others with the consent of the 
Respondent No. 1 hay operated to reduce the number of votes secured by the 
Respondent No . 2 . If the said corrupt practice had not been adopted by the 
Respondent No. 1 his agents and others with the consent of Respondent No. 1 
it would have enhanced and added number of votes in favour of the second 
Respondent. Such addition would have not only wiped out the majority com 
manded by the returned candidate but the second Respondent would have com 
manded majority over the returned candidate and would have been declared 
elected . 


1656 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962, VAISAKHA 24, 1884 


PART II 


13 . That the said Shree Solanki who is the Secretary of the Swatantra Party 
made a statement on 18 - 2 - 1962 and published the same under his signature . That 
the said statement was published in the daily paper " Swatantra Sarjan " under 
the caption " THE KSHATRIYA SHOULD GIVE MOUTH FILLING ŘEPLY TO 
THE CRITICS BY MAKING SWATANTRA PARTY VICTORIOUS." Marked 
Annexure " C " is the leaflet containing the statem nt. " C1" is a copy of the said 
daily paper . The petitioner sets out the following excerpts indicating the drift : 
" What is all this ? The kshatriya population of Gujarat may know that in 

this election fight people have to respond to this cold blooded joke 
by an equally cool headed reply . The elections will be over within 
the coming 7 days and the results will also be declared within three 
days thereafter . It is a matter of merc ten days within which we 
have to give those cracking such jokes and disparaging our leaderg 
before the public , such a mouth filling reply that they would never 

again have the courage to utter any, such name." 
The leaflets containing the said statement of Shri Solanki were freely distributed 
at the instance and with the consent of the Art Respondent in the said consti 
tuency . The said statement was also given wide publicity by the said daily 
paper . The said statement contains a direct appcal to vote for the first Respondent 
on the ground of religion , race, caste and community . The said statement hug 
been made and published at the instance of the first Respondent and / or with his 
consent to induce the kshatriya voters to vote for the first Respondent. The said 
statement is a compelling inducement to the voters in an insiduous manner inter 
fering with the free exercise of electoral rights . That the voters have been 
unduly influenced by such corrupt practice. The said statement is attempted at 
promoting feelings of hatred against different classes of the citizens of India on 
the ground of religion , race, caste and community for the furtherance of the 
prosperts of the election of Respondent No. 1 and for prejudicially affecting the 
election of the Respondent No. 2 . 

14 . That the Respondent No. 1 his agents and others with the consent and 
connivance of the Respondent No. 1 and his election agent have widely circulated 
and distributed booklcts at public places and in the meetings of the election 
campaign in the constituency under the caption " SEE HOW BADLY YOU ARE 
TRAPPED " and surely " IF YOU LIKE TO DO SOMETHING YOU SHOULD 
VOTE FOR THE SWATANTRA PARTY .” Marked Annexure " D " is the booklet 
On the cover page is depicted a man tied with rope thrown in a caundrol showing 
leaping fre around it. In the Booklet there is one picture which depicts a man 
who is threatened with a pistol creating an impression on the mind of the voter 
that the land -holders would be deprived of their land at the point of pistol. 
All the pictures in the booklet are designed with the object of creating fear in 
the mind of the voters with a view to refrain them from voting for the Congress 
The pictures and the writings in the booklet create horror and terror in the mind 
of the yoters . The pictures unduly influenced the voters. The petitioner says 
that the same amounts to corrupt practice of undue influence within the meaning 
of Section 123 ( 2 ) of the Act of 1951. 

15 . That the election campaign committee of the Swatantra Party had issued 
a leaflet under the caption " PUBLIC SHOULD TEACH A LESSON TO THE 
POWER - BLIND CONGRESS ." It refers to the " REIGN OF RAVANA ." The 
Congress ruln is compared with reign of Ravana. The expression " REIGN OF 
RAVANA " has acquired a special connotation and meaning . It means reign of 
terror, fear and immorality . The said expression criats before the mental screen 
of the voters a scene of " RAVANA RAJYA " and fear in the minds of the voters 
that they would meet with the same fate of " RAVANA RAJYA " if they vote for 
the second Respondent. That by publishing and distributing such leaflots and 
making propaganda in public meetings, created terror, fear and hatred in the 
minds of the voters and such other feclings which has internered with the free 
exercise of electoral rights. The said leaflets were published and distributed 
with the knowledge and consent of the Respondent No. 1 by his agents for unduly 
influencing the voters in an insiduous manner interfering with the free exercise 
of the electoral rights. The majority voters , who are ignorant and illiterate 
persons are susceptible by such propaganda were unduly influenced by such 
corrupt practices. The said leaflet was calculated to undulv influence and inter 
fere with the free exercise of voting . Marked Annexure " E " is the said leaflet . 

18 . That the Respondent No. 1 and his agent with his consent have issued and 
widely distributed leaflets with Star as the symbol with a prefix Dhruva which 
mans eternal, firm , rcsolute and devoted to religion , The recognised symbol of 
the party is " STAR " without a prefix " DHRUVA " . The petitioner says that the 
Respondent No. 1 and the Swatantra Party with the consent of the Respondent 


Sec. 8 (il ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKUA 22 , 1884 


1657 


1 


No. 1 as his agent had used the prefix " DHRUVA " with a view to give religious 
impetus, and to appeal the voturs to vote for the Respondent No. 1 and the 
Swatantra Party candidate in the name of religion by using religious symbol of 
" DHRUVA " . This amounts to corrupt practice within the meaning of section 
123 ( 3 ) of Act 1951, 

17 , The petitioner says that the Secretary of the Gujarat Kshatriya Sabha held 
conventions of kshatriya workers of the Taluka on the date and at the place 
shown below : 


Taluka 


Date 


Cambay . 
Anand . 
Petlad 
Matar , 


30 - 1 - 62 
26 - 1 -62 
21 - 1 - 62 
29 - 1 -62 


Present at the said conventions were Respondent No. 1, said Shri Solanki, 
Chhastia , on Chhatrasing, Shri Udesinh Vadodra , Narendrakumar Lala and others . 
The leaflet announcing the holding of the said conventions bears the emblem of 
" SOMNATH " and also recites the slogan of " JAI SOMNATH " . Marked Annexure 
" F " is the said leaflet . The petitioner says that the said conventions were sponsor 
ed and held at the instance and / or with the consent of Respondent No . 1 with a 
view to solicit votes for him of his caştc and community . The conventions were 
accordingly held at the aforesaid Taluka places in the presence of the aforesaid 
persons and they addressed the workers to vote for the Respondent No. 1 as a 
kshatriya. They also appealed the workers to canvass votes for Respondent No. 
1 of his community . The said conventions were attended by large number of 
kshatriya workers and leaders of the Taluka . The said speakers and in parti 
cular th : Respondent No. 1 and the said Shri Solanki also told the voters to vote 
for the Dhruva Star, the symbol of Swatantra Party in respect of Legislative 
Assembly of the Gujarat State and if they fail to vote for the Swatantra Party 
they would be failing in their kshatriya Dharma, as a true kshatriya would not 
be on the side of injustice. The Respondent No . 1 further told the voters that " I 
ENJOIN UPON EVERY KSHATRIYA TO BECOME GOOD KSHATRIYA ," The 
Respondent No . 1 also said that " WE HAVE NEVER SURRENDERED TO IN 
JUSTICE NOR SI1ALL WE DO SO , THIS IS OUR PLEDGE ; THIS IS OUR VOW ; 
AND THE SAME IS OUR SUPPORT" . 


19, The said speakers thereby created an impression on the voters that the 
election was a Alght, and by so doing arous - d communal feelings in their mind 
and thereby appealed them to vote for Respondent No. 1 as also for the other 
candidates of the Swatantra Party . It was said by the Respondent No . 1 and 
Shri Solanki that Shri C . Rajagopalechari has laid foundation for the 
" SWATANTRA PARTY " Bhaikaka is beating " Rannaubat" . Kshatriyas are 
known for showing their khamir and when there is an invitation knocking our 
doors they should rise to the occasion to maintain their reputation . Finally he 
had told them to cast their votes for him and the Swatantra Party only and 
appealed to the voters to secure votes of other too . 


20 . The petitioner says that similar conventions were held at Borsad , Thasra , 
Anand , Nadiad, Kapadwanj, Matar , Balasinor and Mahemdabad . In all the said 
conventions the Respondent No. 1 and the said Shri Solanki and Shri Chhastia 
were present among others and had made similar appeals to the voters in similar 
language. 


21 . The petitioner says that by the said propaganda and by appealing the 
voters to vote for Respondent No. 1 and the candidate of the Swatantra Party the 
Arst Respondent himself and / or other persons mentioned hércin as agents with 
the consent of the Respondent No. 1 interfered with the free rise of the 
electoral rights and hy creating communal feeling made the voters to believe 
that they would fail in their kshatriya dharma if they did not vote for the res 
pondent No . 1 as a kshatriya and for the candidats of the swatantra party . It 
was a religious appeal, 


22. The petitioner says that the first Respondent and the Swatantra Paksha 
election propaganda committee at the instance of and / or with the consent of the 


1658 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :MAY 12, 1982 /VAISAKHA 22, 1681 


[PART II 


first Respondent sponsored public meeting at the following places on the dates 
and time shown against the villages . 


Name of Village 


Date 


Time 


NNN 


Navali 
Napad (Khandhali Dampera , Vanshillpia ) 
Boriavi . 
Lambhavel 
Bakrol , 
Karamsad 
Adas . 
Mogar . 
Ramnagar 
Vera - Khadi 
Kherda 
Vasad (AnakalavadiRajapura ) 
Vaghasi . 
Gamadi 
Chi hodra 
Ragnol . 
Ajarpura 
Gana 
Meghava 
Mogari . 
Jitodia . 
Vadod . 
Jor. . 
Valasan . 
Sandhegar 


21 - T -62 
21- 1 -62 
22 - 1 -62 
22 - 1 -62 
22 - 1 -62 
22 - 1 -62 
23 - 1 -62 
23 - 1 - 62 
23 - 1 -62 
23 - 1 -62 
23 - 1 -62 
23 - 1 -62 
24 - 1 -62 
24 - 1 -62 
24 - 1 -62 
24 - 1 -62 
24 - 1 -62 
25 - 1 -62 
25 - 1 -62 
25 - 1 -62 
25 - 1 -62 
26 - 1 -62 
26 - 1 -62 
26 - 1 -62 
26 - 1 -62 


9 A . M . 
7 PM , 
2 P . M . 
4 P . M . 
6 PM , 
8 P . M , 
9 P . M . 
12 Noon . 
2 P . M . 
2 PM 
SP. M . 
8 P . M . 
9 P . M . 
10 P . M . 
2 P . M . 
5 P . M , 
8 P , M . 
9 P . M . 
IO P . M . 
2 P . M . 
4 P . M , 
II A , M . to 5 P . M . 
6P . M . 
7P . M . 
8 P .M . 


The said villages are situated in the Parliamentary Constituency. The said meet 
ings were announced in leaflets published by the swatantra party Election Pro 
paganda Committee at the instance and with the consent of the first Respondent. 
That the said leaflet also bears names of the said Shri Solanki and one - bhai 
Dadubhai who are the agents of the first Resp . Marked Annexure " G " is the said 
leaflet . The petitioner says that the sald meetings were attended by a large number 
of voters. The petitioner further says that the said meetings were addressed by 
the said Shri Solanki and the said Shri Chimanbhai Dadubhai Desai and among 
other things had particularly appealed to the kshatriyas to vote for th - Respon 
dent No. 1 as a kshatriya and also asked them to vote for Shri Bhallalbhai Daya 
bhai Patel by casting their votes for the candidate of swatantra paksha , 


23 . The petitioner further says that the meetings were announced to be held 
in following villages at the time shown against each Village, 


Name of the Vlllage 


Date 


Time 


. 


Halgul-Gopalpara 
Vagasi . . 
Gamadi . 
Anand . . 


13 - 2 - 62 
13 - 2 -62 
13 - 2 -62 
13 - 2 -62 


9 A . M . 
I P , M , 
3 P . M . 
8 P . M . 


The said announcement of the public meetings was made by circulating a leaflet 
published by the propaganda committee Anand Taluka, Swatantra Party . The 
pctitioner says that the said leaflet was published and circulated at the instance 
and with the consent of the Respondent No. 1, Marked Annexure " H " is the salà 
leaflet. The petitioner says that the said meetings were attended by the Arst 
Respondent, the said Solanki and Shri Chhasatia and others . In each village 
number of voters attended the meeting held at the instance and in the presence 
of the Respondent No. 1 . The petitioner says that in the course of their address 
the first Respondent and Shri Chhasatia appealed particularly to the kshatriya 
voters to vote for Respondent No. 1 and the other swatantra party candidates 
contesting election for the Legislative Assembly , namely for Shri Bhallalbhai 


SEC. $(U ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962 / VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


1659 


Dyabhai Patel. The said meetings were also addressed by Shri Solanki who made 
a similar appeal to the kshatriya voters. 


24 . The petitioner further says that the Secretary of the Swatantra Party , 
Gujarat , at the instance and with the consent of the Respondent No. 1 and one 
Shri Bhailalbhai Dyabhai Patel of Anand published and circulated a leaflet 
announcing that a procession will be taken out on 23 - 2 - 1962 between 3 p . m . and 
4 p . m . from Azad Maidan under the leadership of the Respond . nt No . 1 and the 
said Shri Bhailalbhai Patel. It was also stated in the said leaflet that the said 
procession will be then converted into a public meeting at the place known as 
Lotia Bhagol. Marked Annexure " I " is a copy of the said leaflet. The said locality 
is a place where several houses of kshatriyas are situated . That the procession 
was attended by nearly 15 , 000 voters out of whom nearly 5 , 000 to 6 , 000 voters 
were kshatriya who had come from other places of the said constituency . The 
said mecting was among others addressed by the Respondent No. 1, Shri Chasatia 
and Shri Bhailalbhai Patel. All of them in the course of the address made a 
pressing appeal to the voters of the community of the Respondent No. 1 to vote 
for him as a kshatriya and also to vote for the swatantra party candidate Shrl . 
Bhailalbhai Patel. They requested the voters to make both of them victorious . 


25 . The petitioner says that the Annexures " A " , collectively " B " , " C " , " D " and 
" E " were distributed by the agents of the Respondent No . 1, with his consent at 
all the meetings and conventions held by the Respondent No. 1 and his agents at 
the instance and with the consent of the Respondent No, l . 


26 . All the aforesaid corrupt practices left no free will to the voters in the 
exercise of their electoral rights and the same prevailed so evtenslyely that the 
election was not a free election . 


27. The petitioner submits that the corrupt practices as set out herein above 
were committed by the first Respondent and by his agents with his consent. The 
Detitioner also submits that the result of the election has been materially affected 
by the corrupt practices committed in the interest of the first Respondent by him 
self and by his agents with his consent. The petitioner says that the election in 
the said constituency has not been a free election as corrupt practices of undue 
influence , of appealing to vote on the ground of religion , race, caste , and com 
munity , appeal in the name of religion and use of and appeal to religious symbol and 
of promoting feeling of hatred on the grounds of religion , race , caste and com 
munity etc . were committed by the first Respondent and his agents with his 
conscnt. The petitioner submits that the second Respondent would have secured 
a considerably larger number of votes than she actually did and would have 
succeeded . The petitioner submits that but for the said corrupt practice , the 
first Respondent would have been defeated . The petitioner , therefore, submits 
that the election of Arst Respondent should be declared to be void and should be 
set aside. 


28 . Receipt of Rs. 2 ,000 deposited as required by S . 117 of the Act of 1951 is 
lodged herewith . 


29 . Under the circumstances the petitioner prays: 
( a ) That the election of the 1st Respondent be declared void and the 2nd 

Respondent be declared elected or fresh election be directed to be 
held ; 


(b ) That the Respondent No. 1 be directed to pay the cost of this petition ; 

( c ) That such other appropriate relief be given as is deemed necessary . 
Ahmedabad , 
Dated 10th April 1962. 

Sd / - Illegible. 
( Signature of the petitioner ) 


1. Chhotabhai Desaibhai Patel, the petitioner residing at Ajrapura, this 10th 
day of April 1962, verify that the contents of paragraphs 1, 3 , 4 , 5 , 9 to 17 & 28 
are correct to my own knowledge and the contents of paragraphs 2 to 9 and 12 


1660 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ;MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


[Part II 


to 27 are correct to my belief based upon information received and believed to 
be true . 
Ahmedabad , 
this 10th day of April 1962 . 


( Signature of the petitioner ) 


Drafted by 
JASHBHAI B . PATEL, 

Advocate, 
Gujarat High Court , 

Ahmedabad , 
Notes: Annexures A to I not printed . 


[No. 82 / 216 / 62.) 

By Order, 
V . RAGHAVAN , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Expenditure ) 

New Delhi, the 2nd May 1962 
S . O . 1388. - In pursuance of clause ( 3 ) of article 77 of the Constitution and 
of all other powers enabling him in this behalf, the President hereby makes the 
following rules to amend the Delogation of Financial Powers Rules, 1958 , namely : 

1. These rules may be called the Delegation of Financial Powers (Ninth ) 
Amendment Rules , 1962. 

2 . They shall be deemed to have come into force on the 23rd April, 1962 . 

3 . In Schedule VII to the Delegation of Financial Powers Rules , 1958 , against 
the entries relating to the powers of Heads of Departments regarding write off 
of losses on account of " Deficiencies and depreciation in the value of stores 
included in the stock and other accounts " . as substituted by the Ministry s notifica 
tion No. F . 12 (72 ) - EII ( A ) / 61 dated the 3rd March , 1962, ( Amendment No. 111) , 
the following shall be inserted in columns 2nd and 3 , namely : 

- 
Col, 2 

Col, 3 


( vil ) Director General of Health Services, 


5 , 000 


(No. F . 1 ( 20 ) -EII ( A ) / 62 .] 
C . R . KRISHNAMURTHI, Dy . Secy . 


( Department of Economic Atalrs) 

Ne Delhi, the 41* May, 1962 
8 . 0 . 1389 . -- Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India , us on the 27th April, 1962 


SEC,8(il)] 


BANKING DEPARTMENT 


Liabilities 


Rs. 


Assets 


Rs. 


5,03,00 000 
80 ,00,00 ,000 


Notes , 
Rupee Coin 


, 
. 


, 
. 


39 ,91, 71,000 

2 ,88 ,000 


. 


4 ,01, 000 


50 ,00 ,00 ,000 
6 ,00 ,00 , 000 


Capital paid up 
Reserve Fund 
National Agricultural Credit (Long -term Operations) 

Fund 
National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation ) Fund . . 
Deposits : 

(a ) Government 

( 1 ) Central Government , . 

( 2 ) Other Governments . . . . 
(6 ) Banks 

(c ) Other . . . . 
Bills Payable 
Other Liabilities , , , , , , , 


Subsidiary Coin . 
Bills Purchased and Discounted : 

(a ) Internal 
(6 ) External 

(c) Government Treasury Bits 
Balances beld abroad * 
* * Loans and Advances to Governments 
Other Loans and Advancest 
Lovestments . . . . . 
Other Assets . . . . . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MAY12,1962/VAISAKHA22,1884 


53,63, 59 ,000 
14,28,50 ,000 
85, 14 , 87,000 
153 ,04,28,000 

30 ,43, 20 , 000 
63,48,01,000 


48,02,29, 000 

6 , 54 , 59 ,000 
I10 , 25 , 23 , 000 
127,81,81,000 
172 ,66 ,66 ,000 
35,73,27,000 


Rupees 


541,0245 ,000 


Rupees 


541 ,02,45,000 


* Indudes Cash & Short-term Securities. 
* * Includes Temporary Overdrafts to State Governments . 
The item Other Loans and Advances includes Rs. 9,80,00,000 /- advanced to chetuled banks against usance bills under Section 17( 4Xc) of the 

Reserve Bank of Lodie Act. 
Dated , the 2nd dry of May , 1962 . 


1991 


- 


An Account pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 , for the week ended the 27th day of April, 1962 

ISSUB DEPARTMENT 


1662 


Liabilities 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Assets 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Notes held in the Banking Department 
Notes ia circulation . . . 
Total Notes issued . . . . 


39 , 91,71,000 
2123, 04 ,45, 000 


117, 76 ,03,000 


2162 ,96 , 16 ,000 


105 .86 , 07 ,000 


A . Gold Coin and Buition : 

(a ) Held in India , 
(b ) Held outside India . 
Foreign Securities . . 

TOTAL OF A . . 
B . Rupee Coin . . . 
Government of India Rupee 

Securities . . . 
Internal Bills of Exchange and 
other commercial peper , 


223,62 ,19 000 
119 ,32, 75 ,005 


1820 ,01,31, 000 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MAY12,1902,VAISAKHA22,1884 


TOTAL LIABILITIES 


2162, 96 ,16 ,000 


TOTAL ASSETS 


TUIA 


. 


2162,96, 16 ,000 


P . G . BHATTACHARYTA , 

Governor 


Dated the 2nd day of May, 1962 . 


[No . F . 3(2 )-BC /62.] 
A BAKSI, Jt. Secy . 


PART1) 


Sec . 8(11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1663 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 


INCOME- TAX 
New Delhi, the 4th May 1962 


S . O . 1390 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by şub - section ( 1 ) of section 
122 of Income- tax Act , 1961 (43 of 1961 ) , and in supersession of all the previous 
notifications in this regard , the Central Board of Revenue hereby directs that the 
Appellate Assistant Commissioners of Income- tax of the Ranges specified in 
column 1 of the schedule below shall perform their functions in respect of all 
persons and incomes assessed to income- tax or super - tax in the Income- tax 
Circles , Wards and Districts specified in the corresponding entry in column 2 . 
thereof :- - 


SCHEDULE 


Range . 


Income-tax Circles , Wards and Districts 


‘ A ’ Range, Bangalore 


. 


. 


. I. Bangalore City Circle I. 

2 . Rural Circle , Bangalore . 
3 . Shimoga Circle, 
4 . Kolar Circle . 

5 . Estate Duty- cum - Income- Tax Circle , Bangalore . 
. 1. Bangalore City Circle II. 

2 . Salary Circle , Bangalore , 
3 . Special Investigation Circles A & B Bangalore. 
4 . Bellary Circle . 
5 . Tumkur Circle . 


B Range, Bangalore 


, 


. 


Mangalore 


. 


Dharwar 


. 


. 


I. Mangalore Circle . 
2 . Coorg Circle . 
3 . Udipi Circle . 
4 . Mysore Circle , 
5 . Hasan Circle . 
6 . Estate Duty - cum - Income-tax Circle , Mangalore. 
1 . All Income-tax Wards of Dharwar Districts having 

headquarters at Dharwar . 
2 , Karwar Circlc . 
3 . Davngere Circle . 
4 . Raichur Circlc . 
5 . Estate Duty - cum - Income- tax Circle , Dharwar . 
6 . Chitaldurg Circle. 


. 


. 


. 


Belgaum 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


1. All Income- tax Wards of Belgaum Districts having 

headquarters at Belgaum . 
2 . All Income- tax Wards of Bijapur District having 

headquarters at Bijapur. 
3 . Gulbarga Circle . 


Where an Income - tax Circle , Ward or District or part thereof stands trans 
ferred by this notification from one Range to another Range, appeals arising out 
of assessments made in that Income-tax Circle , Ward or District or part thereof 
and pending immediately before the date of this notification before the Appellate 
Assistant Commissioner of the Range from whom that Income- tax Circle , Ward 
or District or part thereof is transferred shall, on and from the date this notifica 
tion shall take effect be transferred to and dealt with by the Appellate Assistant. 
Commissioner of the Range to whom the said Circle , Ward or District or part : 
thereof is transferred . 


This notification shall come into force on 7th day of May, 1962 . 


1664 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1902 /VAISAKHA 22, A87 


(PART II 


Explanatory Note 


The amendments have become necessary on account of the Re- organisation of 
the Appellate Ranges, in the charge of the Commissioner of Income- tax , Mysore. 


( The above note does not form a part of th “ notification but is intended to be 
merely clarificatory ) . 

[No. 19 ( F . NO . 50 / 13 /62-IT ).1 
New Delhi, the 7th May 1962 


S . O . 1391. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
122 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) and in supersession of all previous 
notifications in this regard , the Central Board of Revenue hereby directs that the 
Appellate Assistant Commissioners of Income- tax of the Ranges specified in 
coluunn I of the schedule below shall perform their functions in respect of all 
persons and incomes assessed to income-tax or super - tax in the Income- tax Circles , 
Wards and Districts specified in the corresponding entry in column 2 thereof :- . 


SCHEDUIR 


Range 


Income- tax Circles, Wards and Districts 


- 


"" A Rangc , Calcutta 


, 


. 


. 


B ’ Range , Calcutta 


mit C Range, Calcutta 


. 


. 


. 


D Range, Calcutta 


, 


E Range, Calcutta 


I. Companies District- - I , Calcutta , 
2 . District- - II ( 3 ), Calcutta . 
1. Companies District - 1, Calcutta . 
2 . 24 Parganas. 
I. Companies District- - III, Calcutta. 
2 . Cinema Circle - I, Calcutta , 
3 , Cinema Circle - - II , Calcutta , 
4 . Foreign Section , Calcuita. 
I . Estate Duty cum - Income- tax Circle , Calcutta , 
2 , Non - compunies ( Income-tax cum Excess Profits 

Tax ), District - - I , Calcutta . 
3 . Non - companies ( Income- tax cum Excess Profits 

Tax , District- - II , Calcutta . 
4 . Projcct Circle- - I , Calcutta . 
3 . Project Circle- - II , Calcutta . 
6 . Hooghly. 
I . District, V , Calcutta , 
2 . District - - V ( I ) , Calcutta . 
3 . District- - y ( 2 ), Calcutta . 
4 . District- - IV (3 ), Calcutta , 
5 . Special Survey Circler - V , Calcutta , 
6 . Special Survey , Circle- - X , Calcutta . 
1. District--- I (I ), Calcutta. 
2 , District- - II ( 2 ), Calcutta . 
3 . Special Survey Circle - - VII, Calcutta , 
1. Special Survey, Circle -- III , Calcutta. 
2 . District- - I (2 ), Calcutta . 
3 . District - - III ( 2 ), Calcutta , 
I . Special Circle- -- I , Calcutta . 
2 . Cases which have been assigned and which will be 

assigned from time to time by the Board . 
3 . District- - III ( 1 ), Calcutta , 
I . Special Circle - - II , Calcutta , 
2 . Cases which have been assigned and which will 

be assigned from time to time by the Board . 
3 . Special Survey Circle I, Calcutta . 
4 . Murishidabad. 
5 . Companies District- - IV , Calcutta , 
6 . District- - VII, Calcutta . 
7 . Nadia . 


of Range, Calcutta 


. 


. 


. 


G Range , Calcutta . 


. 


. 


H Range, Calcutta 


. 


. 


. 


" I Range , Calcutta 


. 


. 


. 


Suc. 3(11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1665 


Range 


Incomu-tax Circles, Wards and Districts 


J Range, Calcutta 


. 


Burdwan Range 


. 


Jalpaiguri Range 


M Range , Calcutta 


1. District - IV (2 ), Calcutta . 
2 . Special Survey Circle VI, Calcutta . 
3 . District VI, Calcutta . 
I. Burdwan , 
2 . Birbhum , 
3 . Asansol. 
4 . Bankura - Purulia . 
1 . Jalpaiguri Income tax Circle , Jalpaiguri, 
2 . Darjecling Income- tax Circle , Siliguri. 
1. Special Survey Circle -- II, Calcutta. 
2 . Special Survey Circle - - VIII , Calcutta . 
3 . Special Survey Circle - IX , Calcutta , 
4 . Howrah . 
1 . Case 8 which have been assigned and which will 

be assigned from time to time by the Board . 
2 . Midnapore . 
3. Special Survey Circle _ IV , Calcutta . 
I , Cooch - Behar, 
2 . Refund Circle , Calcutta . 
3 . District IIIA , Calcutta . 
4 . District VA , Calcutta . 
5 . Central Salaries Circle , Calcutta . 
6 . Railways & Miscellancous Salaries Circle , Calcutta , 
I . West Dinajpur. - Malda . 
2 . District- - IY ( 1 ), Calcutta . 


N Range, Calcutta 


. 


. 


O Range, Calcutta 


. 


. 


p Range, Calcutta 


Where an Income-tax Circle , Ward or District or part thereof stands trans 
ferred by this notification from one Range to another Range , appeals arising out 
of assessments made in that Income- tax Circle , Ward or District or part thereof 
and pending immediately before the date of this notification before the Appellate 
Assistant Commissioner of the Range from whom that Income-tax Circle , Ward 
or District or part thereof is transferred shall, from the date this notiflcation shall 
take effect , be transferred to and dealt with by the Appellate Assistant Com 
missioner of the Range to whom the said Circle, Ward or District or part thereof 
is transferred . 

This notification shall take effect from 14th day of May , 1962 . 


Explanatory Note 
The amendments have become necessary on account of the Re-organisation of 
the Appellate Ranges in the charge of the Commissioner of Income-tax , West 
Bengal, Calcutta . 
( The note does not form a part of the notification but is merely clarificatory ) . 

[No. 21 ( F . No. 50 / 16 /62- IT ) .) 

D . V . JUNNARKAR , Under Secy . 
CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 12th May 1962 
$ . 0 . 1992 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by claus s ( c ) and ( d ) section 
il of the Sea Customs Art, 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , the Central Board of Revenue hereby 
makes the following further amendments to its notifcation No . 197 -Customs dated 
the 28th June, 1958 , namely : 

In the Schedule to the said notification . 

(1 ) for the existing entries relating to whart No. 21, the following shall be 
substituted , nemely : 
" Cochin Port 21 Cochin 211 Coal herth - R . C . platfo - m All cargo Landing 

Port 40 ft. wils and 350 long; thct 

und 
Authority apprach armas, 20 ſt , wide and 

Shipping " : 
IIS long connecting tho 
platform to shoro , 


1666 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


[PART II 


( 2 ) after the entries relating to wharf No. 21 ag so substituted , the following 
shall be added , namely :-- 
" Cochin Port 22 Cochin New Wharf on the Ernakulan All goods Landing 
Port sido „ of Willingdon Island 

and 
Authority Northernmogt berth out of 

Shipping" . 
the 4 deep water berthg under 
construction , plus too lergth 
of the wha f at the North and 
which is shallow the total 
length being 600 capable of 
berthing one medium size 
stcamer , The northern and 
wcgtcrn sides arc walled up 
while on the southern sides 
contruction of the other berths 
is in progress The Eastern side 
faces the backwater on the 
Ernakulam side . 

[No. 67 / F . No. 34 / 2 / 62 -Cus. IV .] 

S . VENKATESAN , Sęcy . 


COLLECTORATE OF CENTRAL EXCISE , PATNA 

( Bhagalpur Division ) 

NOTICE 

Patna , the 12th May 1962 
$ . 0 . 1393. - Whereas it appears that the goods as mentioned in the under 
mentioned table seized in the vicinity of the Indo - Pakistan border at Pakur 
Railway Station , were imported by land from Pakistan in contravention of the 
Rules and Notifcations as mentioned against each . 


SI. ? Date & place of 
No. seizure 


By whom detected . 


Rules contravened 


Descrip - Quantity 
tion 
of goods 


I . 


I A . M . on 30th De 
cember , 1961, 328 
Down train et 
Pakur Railway 
Station , 


Sixty 
Kilo 
grams. 


1. Shri B . Mukher - Cinna- 
jce , Dy, Superin - mons in 
tendent. 

two 
2 . Shri V . A . Menon gunny 
P . I . O . , Bhagalpur bags . 
Divisional Office. 
3 . Shri Badri Prasad , 

Sub - Inspector , 
4 . Shri Tewary , 

Sepoy . 
5 . Shri Ambika 
Singh , Sepoy of 
Customs and Cen 
tral Excise . 


Section 5 ( I ) of the 
Land Customs Act, 
1924 , Section 3 of 
Import Export con 
trol act, 1947 and 
Section 19 of the 
Sea Customs Act , 
1878 . 


2 . Now , therefore, any person claiming the goods is hereby called upon to 
show cause to the Assistant Collector of Central Excise and Land Customs, 
Bhagalpur Division , Bhagalpur why the above mentioned goods should not be 
confiscated under Section 5 ( 3 ) of the Land Customs Act , 1924 rcacl with Section 
167 ( 8 ) and 168 of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 and why a penalty should not be 
Imposed on him under Section 7 ( I) ( C ) of tho Land Customs Act, 1924, read with 
Section 167 ( 8 ) of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 . 

3 . If such an owner falls to turn up to claim the above mentioned unclaimed 
goods or to show cause against the action proposed to be taken within 15 days 
from the date of publication of this notice in the Government of India Gazette , 
the goods in question will be treated as unclaimed and the case will be decided 
accordingly 

No. VIII ( 10 ) 2 / 62 . ) 
H . P , SEN GUPTA , Asstt . Collector 


· SEC. 3(ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1667 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CUSTOMS AND CENTRAL EXCISE , 

PUBLIC NOTICE 

CENTRAL EXCISE 

Pondicherry , the 24th April , 1962 
SUBJECT : - Central Excise - Finance Bill 1962 _ Imposition of Central Excise duty 

on certain articles and changes in the existing rates of duty . 
8 . 0 . 1394 . - It is notified for the information of the Trade that Central Excise 
duty has been imposed on the undermentioned articles for the first time with 
effect from 24th April 1962 by the Finance ( 2 ) Bill 1962 at the rates noted below 
against each : 

ANNEXURE I ( B ) 
1962 (April) Budget Proposals at a glance 

(NEW ITEMS ) 


Commodity 


Tariff 


Rate of duty 


Duty cxemption if any 


Item 


No. 


2 


I All products derived from IIA 5 % ad valorem . 

refining of crude petrol 

eum , N . O . S . 
2 Acids (Nitric , Hydrochloric, 14G 10 % ad valorem . 

Rulphuric and their aphy 

drides ) . 
3 Gases (compressed , liquified 14H 

(1) Gases used in the same 
or goldified ). 

factory for manufacture of 

other excigable goods not 
(1) Oxygen 

10 % ad valorem . to be charged to duty . 
i ) Chlorine 
(11) Ammonia 
( iv ) Carbonic acid 

50 % ad valorem ( it ) Tariff value for ammonia 
( carbon dioxide) 

fixed . 
(U ) Refrigerant gases, 

20 % ad valorem . 
N . O . S . 
4 . Rubber products, the 16A 
following 
(1) Latex foam sponge . 

20 % ad valorem + 1) By exemption notifica 

tion the cffective rates of 
duty on Latex , foam 
spongc and camel back 
have been fixed as Rs 
I 25 per Kg, and so np 

per Kg. respectively . 
5 ( 11 ) Plates , sheets and 

20 % ad valorem 
strips. 

(ii) All other products have been cxempted , 
5 Plywood and allied Products 

By exemption notification 
Plywood for tea chests 16B 10 % ad volorem 

the effective rates of duty 
(11) All others 

15 % ad valorem on plywood for tca 

cliests has been fixed 30 

nl . per Sq, metre , 
6 Jutemanufactures 
© Hessian 

Ro, 250 per metric Yarn waste , waste yarn 
tonne 

chindics and rags cxempt 

cd , 
( 11 ) All others 

Rs. 125 per metric 
tonne. 


22A 


1668 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


(PART II 


10 % 


ad valorem 


7 Asbestos cement products . 230 
& Iron and steelproducts . 26AA 

(i) Bars , rods , coils 

wires , etc . 


( 11 ) Plates and sheets in 

cluding Galvanised 
or corrugated plates 

And sheets . 
(iii) Uncoated plates and 

sheets intended for 
tinning . 


5 % ad valorem , plug (1) Iron and steel manufac 

duty in pig iron or tures if made from duty 
steel ingots as the paid pig iron steel in 
case may be. 

gots cxempted from the 
duty equivalent to duty 
leviable under itern 25 

Or 26 . 
7 - 1 /2 % ad valorem ( 11) Castings (other than 
plus duty on pig pipes ard tubes) of weight 
irou or strel as the below I tonnc exempted . 
case may be. 
Do. 

(111) Products falling under 

sub - ticm (it) to (o ) if 
made from Products 
having paid duty under 
sub - item to be glven 
benefit of the duty pay 

able under sub - ftem (1) . 
5 % ad valorem plus 
duty on pig iron 
or steel as the case 
may be . 
5 % ad volorem plus 

duty on steel ingot. 


(iv ) Pipes and tubes, 

rolled , forged or 
cast. 


15 % ad valorem 


( u) All other steel cast 

ings. 
9 Electric wires and circles all 33B 

sorts N . O . S . 
(1) Insulated wires de 

signed to work in 
circuit of less than 
Io amperes and at a 
pressure not exceed 

Ing 250 volts. 

( ir) Al others 
1o Gramophones , parts and 

accessories and gra 
mophone-records. 
(1) gramophones , or 

record players , in 
cluding radiograms. 


5 % 


ad valorem 


37A 


20 % ad valorem 


( 1 ) By exemption Notifica 

tion the following specific 
rates have been fixed for 

records and needles . 
Records : 


(11) parts and accessories 


30 % ad valorem 


15 % ad valorem 


(üt) gramophone records 

all sorts other than 
matrices . 


(1) designed to play at revo 

lution exceeding 70 

R . P . M . 35 nP . 
( ii ) designed to 70 np . 

play at revo - cach . 
lutions in 
excess of 40 
but not 70 

R . P . M . 
( iii) Others 

Rs. 2 . 50 

cach. 
Needles if 25 P . for 
made of steel every 200 

or fraction 


30 % ad valorem . 


(iv ) Matrices for records 

impressed . 
(0 ) Needles for style . 


(a ) Wholly made of steel 
(6 ) Others 


20 % ad valorem 
25 % ad valorem 


( 2 ) All parto 

except the 
essential ones 
have been 
exempted . 


Str. * t )) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1660 


2 . The manufacturers of the above articles within the state of Pondicherry 
should : — 
( i) apply to the Collector of Customs and Central Excise, Pondicherry 

for a Central Excise Licence in form A . L . 4 furnishing the details 
required therein , for the manufacture, storage and disposal of such 

excisable commodities ; 
( ii ) obtain the licence in form L , 4 granted by the competent authority 

under the jurisdiction of the Collector of Customs and Central 

Excise Pondicherry ; 
( iii ) clear such excisable commodities from the factory on payment of the 

Central Excise duty at the appropriate rates by presenting the appli 
cation for clearances in the proper form and duly permitted by the 

proper Central Excise Officer ; 
(iv ) maintain accounts of the production , storage and clearance of such 

excisable _ commodities in the proper form and submit returns in 

forms RT. 3 , R . T . 4 and RT. 5 ; and 
( v ) observe all the Central Excise formalities as required under the 

Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 and the rules made thereunder . 
3 . The following changes in the first schedule to the Central Excises and Salt 
Act , 1944 have been introduced by the Finance ( 2 ) Bill 1962 and they are 
reproduced below for the information of the trade: - 


ANNEXURE I ( A ) 


1982 (April) Budget Proposals at a Glance 

(EXISTING ITEMS) 


Si. Tariff 
No . Itcm 


Commodity 


Remarks 


Unit Existing Proposed 

rate of rate of 

duty duty 
4 5 


1 


2 


3 


I 


3 


. 


) Looge tea . 
Zone I 
Zone II 
Zonc III A 


. 
. 
. 
. 


Basic DUTY 
Kg . 

IO P . 
„ 15 OP . 
p . 29 OP . 


. 


15 nP . The zones have been 

renumbered as I , II , 
25 nP. III, IV and V , res 

pectively . 
Darjeel 
ing) 35 np . 
(Others .) 
45 OP . 
IS OP . 

The rebate will be 

given by adjust 
ment in the export 
duty . 


Zone III B 
(11) Export rebate 


, 


» 


35 pp . 


© Unmanufactured 

tobacco . 
Şub - items 
I (1 ) 
I ( 2 ) ) 
I (3) 


Kg . 


14) 


Rs. 2 . 50 Rs, 2 -60 
Rs. 16 . 50 Rs, 16 . 90 
Rs. 2 .20 Rs. 2 : 25 
RX, 2 .00 Rs. 2 . 05 
Rs, 1 . 14 R4, 2 25 

(Rawa ) 
Rs. 1 . 20 

(others ) 
Rs. 2 . 20 Rs. 2 . 25 


The entry relating to 
mwg has been 
omitted from gub 
Item I( s ). 


I(6) 


. 


1670 


THË GAZETTĖ OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


[PART DI 


3 


4 


5 


6 


(2 ) Cigarettes : 
Existing tariff to be replaced as below : 
Cigarettes of which the valuc per 1000 . 


Date of duty per 1000 cigarettes 


Bexceed Rs. 


Does not exceed Rs. 


Rs. 


(112 ) 15 . 


. 


3 


6 


8 


5 


II 


6 


12 


(1) 35 . . . 

25 - 30 
( 11 ) 25 . . . . 

: 35 

12 . 95 
. 25 

6 .65 
(iv ) 7 . 50 

15 

2 . 90 
7 : 50 

I 30 
Motor Spirits 

Present complete cxemption in respect of Benzene , 

Benzol, Toluene, Toluol, power alcohol and light 
solvent Naptha used for special industrial purposes 
modified Instead of complete exemption a duty of 

5 % ad valorem will now be charged . 
Refined diesel oil and vapo The exemption in respect of certain mineral oils 
rising oil. 

falling under this itemn has also been similarly 

modified . 
Asphalt and Bitumen 1 ) A ncw sub -item " Tar" has been added with 27 % 

ad valorem as the rate of duty . 
(11 ) Tar used as fuel in the manufacturing factory 

exempted from duty . 
V.N . E. Oils 
(1) Units employing upto 4 

Nil Oil produced in such 
ghenies/ Chekkus etc. of 

units have been 
Bengel Type or 2 of any 

exempted . 
other type. 
(1 ) Groundnut Oll and 

Compounded rate 
castor Oil 

for these oils will 
be 15 % higher 
than the ratco pres 
cribed for other 
oils (except coconut 

oil.) 
(it) Licence fcc — Revised 

es below . 
(a ) if the duty payable is 

all or not more than 
Rs. 1, 000 / - in a year . 

Rs. 75 
( ) if the duty payable in a 

year exceedo Re. 
1, 000 . 

Rs . 100 
Vegetable Product. 
Slab exemptions for the first 

30 ,000 quintals with 

drawn. 
Paints and Varnishee. 
0 Cellulose Lacquers . 
This sub - item has been revised ; the effect is that 
( a ) Nitroc ellulose Ancillaries in liquid form is to be assessed at Rs. 1 * 40 per litro 

As nitrocellulose Lacquers : 
( ) A new sub-item for other cellulose lacquers has been provided rate of duty 

Rs. r . o per litre . 
Dyes : Tariff definition changed , 
Patent and Proprietary Mediclacs . 

Definition changed to include branded medicines, 
(U ) Rate of duty 

10 % 71 % 

By notification 


0 


13 


8 
9 


14D 
4 


SEC . 9(11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22 . 1884 


1671 


I 


2 


10 


14€ 


Cosmetics and Toilet prepa 

rations, 


Condition of eligibi 

lity for the exemp 
tiong slightly 
changed . 


II 


15 


Soap 
Exemption revised and re 

duced as below : 
(1) Soap produced with the 

aid of power 
(a ) Household and laundry 

809750 tonnes. 
(6 ) Toilet, monopole or 

Complete exemption . 
textile soap - 25 tonnes ] 
(ii) Soap produced without 

the aid of power - 
(a ) first 100 tonncs - free 
(6 ) next 200 tonnes , partial exemption at the 

current concessional rater . 


12 


ISA 


13 


17 


Plastics : 
A new sub - item " ( ) Not otherwise specified " has been 

added . 
Paper 
Newsprint 

. Exemption withdrawn . 
(11) Straw board 

. Exemption limits rounded 

up to 125 and 375 metric 

tonnes respectively . 
( iii ) Pulp board NOS . (a ) Exemption limits 

rounded up . 
(6 ) Exemption will be avail 

able only to such manu 
facturer whose annual 
output of all paper and 
reper board taken to 
gether doce not exceed 

5000 metric tonnes . 
Rayon and synthetic fibre 
and yarn .- - - 

Rs. 
Tariff rate 

Kr. 3 : 35 

4 50 
Effective rare : 
( 1) Rayon yarn 

Rs. 

Ro. 
(1 ) Below 75 deniers Ko. 3 . 00 
(it) 75- 100 deniers 

2 : 25 3 . 00 
( til) above 100 kg . 

I 50 200 
(2 ) Staple fibre yarn 

Nil Nil 
(3 ) Staple fibre 

1 . 00 
( 4 ) Godet waste 

0 . 75 I 00 
Cotton yarn 
Tariff rates 
(I ) of 35 or more count . Kg, 15 nP . 30 nP . 
(2 ) of less than 35 munts . Ką. 10 P . Is nP . 


14 


18 


Rs. 


4 : 00 


0 . 75 


15 


18A 


Effective Rates : 
(1 ) of 48 or more counts . kg. 
( 2) of 35 or more but less Ki 

than 48 counte 


15 nl . 
is nP . 


27 np. 
18 nl . 


Effective ratc afixed by 

notification , 
Yarn 188ued in hank 
will have concession 
of 1o NP per kg. 80 
that the effective 
ratc per kg , for such 

yarn . 
Will Be 17 np . 8 IP , 

3 . 5 np. And nin 
Iwpectively. 


( ) of 17 or morc but less Kg. 

than 35 county . 


10 ni , 


13 : 3 np 


YYYY 


1672 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962/VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


[ Part II 


I 


2 


- - - 


(4 ) of less than 17 counts 


kg . 


10 EP . 


10 nP . 


Compounded 
have been 
separately , 


rates 
fixed 


16 


18B 


3 . 25 


1. 60 


17 


19 


metre 


22 : 1 


Woollon yarn 
( a ) Tariff rate 
( 1) Worsted yarn 

10 % ad 15 % ad 

valor om valorem 
(2) Others 

5 % ad 7 . 5 % ad 

valoran valorem 
(6 ) Compounded rates : 
(1 ) Worsted yamn 
( a ) of 60 counts 

Kg. 2 10 
advalorem , 
(b ) of less than 60 counts Kg. 

2. 50 
(2) Others 

• Kg. 0 .40 0 . 60 
Cotton fabrics 
(a ) Duty at grey stege 

Rs. nP. R . np . 
( 1) Superfine 

29 - 3 

27 . 5 
( 2 ) Fine 

0 : 20 
3 ) Medium A 

9 : 0 

o 08 
(4 ) Medium B 

60 0 : 0 $ 
( 5) Coarse 

4 . 8 

O 03 
(b ) Differential duty on 

processed cloth 
( 1 ) Bleaching 

Inp . ) 5 nl . For bleaching dyeing & 
( 2 ) Dyed , printed , 

3nP . I printng . 
merceriged . 
(3) Shrink -proofing etc . . , 

6nP . J 25 nP . for all other processes . 
(c) Powerloom 

(1) manufacturers employing upto 4 powerlooms 

exempted . 
(11) Revised compounded rates fixed for manu 

facturers employing s to 49 looms. 
( it ) if so or more powerlooms are installed to pay 

the standard rates . 
Woollen Fabrics 
The following changes have been made by notification : 
(1) unprocessed fabrics have been exempted from duty , including additional 

duty and handloom cess . 
( 11 ) processed fabrics will pay basic duty @ 5 % ad valorem and the additional duty 

and handloom cegs at existing rates. 
(111 ) Compounded levy allowed to smaller units is being withdrawn . 
Rayon and Artsilk fabrics. 
As in the case of woollen fabrics, the following changes have been made by notific 

tion in this case also 
(1) Unprocessed fabrics completely exempted. 
(it) processed fabrics to pay basic duty at 3 . 5 nP . per sq . metre and additional 

duty and handloom cess at the full tariff rates. 
(tt) Compounded levy system is being withdrawn , 
Plg iron 

) Pig iron and steel ingots made from old scrap or 
Stcel ingots 

Į scrap of duty paid metal have been exempted. 


18 


21 


21 


1922 


20 - 25 
21: 26 


226A Copper and alloys, 

(1) Crude metal 

Manufactured 


· Tonne 

3 Ro. 300 


Rs 100 
Ro 300 


This is a new sub - item , 
if made from duty 
paid crude metal 
the effect rate will 
be Rs. 200 /- per 
tonne , 


SEC . 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MÁY 12, 1962 VAISAKHA 92 , 1884 


1673 


Aluminium . 
(1) foils . Tonne Rs. 500 Rs. 600 This has been put in a 

separata sub - iten . 
24 - Air conditioning machinery 

These two items have been combined with a 
Refrigerators 

new tariff description and the scope has 
been somewhat widoned . 


(1 ) Complete 
( it ) Parts 


20 % ad 20 % ad 

valorem valorein 
20 % ad 30 % ad 

by notification , 
valorem vulorem but certain esson 

tial parts have been 

exempted . 
An explanation has been added lo this item to 

exclude electric motors used in gramo 
phones from the scope of this itemn . 


23 . 30 


Electric Motors 


26 


31 


Nil 


10 % ad 
valorom 


By notification . 


Electric Batteries. 
Plates produced in a factory 

employing not more than 

5 workers. 
Electric Bulbs 
Miniature bulbs 


27 


32 


No 


Nil 


Ratcs Tlie exemption has 

been modified . 
frwna 2 nl . 
to IonP . 
each . 

Specific rates of duty 

have been fixed by 
exemption nol 
fication . 


28 


33A 


Wireless receiving sets 


. 


.. 


. . 


29 


34 


Motor Vehicles , 
sub -items 
(i) Auto cycles etc . 


, 


( 2 ) Motor Vehicles of nor 

more than 16 H . P . 


No. Rs. 175 Rs. 175 
cach. or 71 % 

ad valorem 
whichever 

is higher. 
No . ] Ry. 1000 Rs. 1000 

Or 10 % 
ad valorem 
whichever 

is higher. 
The effective rates of matches for so s, have been 

increased roughly hy 50 nľ , per gross, except in 
the case of B class factories where the increase 18 
47 nP , per grogs. Rates for matches of 40 s 
(bamboo splints ) have also been proportionately 
increased , 


30 


38 


Matches, 


The introduction of cxcise duties as aforesaid on new articles and changes 
in the existing rates of Central Excise duty in respect of the aforesaid items 
come into forre from the mid -night of the 23rd /24th April, 1962 

No . 2 / 1962. ] 
M . V . N . RAO , Collector 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY 

New Delhi, the 3rd May 1962 
S . O . 1398 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 14 of thc Standards 
of Weights and Measures Act , 1956 (89 of 1956 ) , the Central Government hereby 


1674 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 19, 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


Parr ff 


makes the following amendment in Notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Commerce and Industry s . o . 1222 dated the 30th May, 1961, 
namely : 
In the said notification , for the words " not exceeding one year" , the words 
" not exceeding sixteen months" shall be substituted . 

[No. SMC- 15 (3 ) / 62. ] 

K . V . VENKATACHALAM , Jt. Secy . 

New Delhi, the 4th May 1962 
S .O . 1396 . — The Central Government, having considered in consultation with 
the Forward Markets Commission , the application for recognition made under 
Section 5 of the Forward Contracts (Regulation ) Act , 1952 ( 74 of 1952 ) by The 
Ludhiana Grain Exchange Limited , Ludhiana, and being satisfied that it would 
be in the interest of the trade and also in the public interest so to do, hereby 
grants , in exercise of the powers conferred by section o of the said Act , recogni 
tion to the said Exchange for a period of three years ending the 11th May , 1965 
in respect of forward contracts in gur. 

2 . The recognition hereby granted is subject to the condition that the said 
Exchange shall comply with such directions as may from time to time be given 
by the Forward Markets Commission , 

[No. 34 (4 ) - TMP / FMC / 62. ] 
T . S . KUNCHITHAPATHAM , Under Secy . 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 5th May 1982 
S . O . 1397 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1955 , the Central Government hcreby directs that the power 
to make orders under clauses ( f ) and ( j ) of sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 3 of the 
said Act shall, in relation to any non -ferrous metal to which the Non - Ferrous 
Metals Control Order 1958 for the time being applies , be exerciseahle also by the 
Development Officer (Metals ) - Dr. P . Dayai. 

This is in supersession of S . O . No. 2163 , dated the 28th September, 1989 , and 
will take effect from 7th May 1962. 

[No. 5 ( 2 ) /MET/ 02. ] 
N . CHIDAMBARAM , Dy. Secy . 


Secg(ll)] 


Vexe Delhi, the 7th May, 1962 
S . O . 1398 . - In exercise ofthe powers conferred by the proviso to Article 309 ofthe Constitition , the Presideat hereby makes the following 
rules namely — 

I. Short title . These rules may be called the Small Scale Industries Organisation Class III - Ministerial Posts ) Recrutment Rules , 1962 . 

2 . Application - These rules shall apply for recruitment to the posts in the Small Scale Industries Organisation specified in column 2 of the 
Schedule annexed hereto . 

3 . Namber , classification and scale of pay. The number of posts, their classification and the scales of pay attached to them shall be as 
specified in columns 3 to 5 of the said Schedule . 

4 . Mathod of recruitment, age limit and other qualifications. — The method of recruitment, age limit , qualifications and other matters 
connected there with shall be as specified in columns 6 to 12 of the Schedule aforesaid : 


Provided that the maximum agelimit prescribed for direct recruitment may be relaxed in the case of persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes 
Tribes, and other special categories in accordance with the orders issued by the Central Government from time to time. 


5 . Disqualification ( 1 ) No person , who has more than one wife lying or who having a spouse living, marties in any case in which such 
marriage is void by reason of its taking place during the life time of such spouse, shall be eligible for appointcent to the fort . 

( 2 ) No woman , whose marriage is void by reason ofthe husband hafing a wife living at the timeof such marriage , or who has married a person 
who has a wife living at the time of such marriage , shall be eligible for appointment to the posts : 

Provided that the Central Government may , if satisfied that there are special grounds for so ordering, exempt any person from the operation of 
this rule . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MAY12,1962/VAISAKHA22,1884 


1675 


SCHEDULE 


1676 


( See rules 2 , 3 and 4 ) 


Serial Name of post 


No. 


No. of Classifi - Scale of pawy Whether Age limit Educational Whether age 
posts cation 

selection for and other and educa - 
post or direct qualifications tional 
non - selec - recruits required qualifications 
tion post 

prescribed for 

the direct 
recruits will 
apply in the 
case of 
promotees 


Period of Method of 
probation , recruitment 
if any whether by 

direct 
recruitment 

or transfer 
and percentage 

of vacancies 
to be filled 
by various 
methods 


In case of 
rectt . by pro 
motion /transfer , 
grades from 
which promotion 
to be made 


12 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


1ο 


II 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MAY12,1962/VAISAKHA22,1884 


Not Not 
applicable applicable 


2 Class III Rs. Non - 
Ministerial 110 - 3 - 125 selection 

(Non 
gazetted ) 


Not 
applicable 


0 12 year 


I Gestetner 

Operator ( Senior ) 
Headquarters ) 
Office . 

I 
Small Industries } 

Service Institute , 
Bombay Ij 


Cant percent By promotion of 
by promotion gestetner opera 
failing which tor (junior) 
by transfer . with not less 

than three years 
experience in 
the grade . By 
transfer of per 
sons in similar 
or equivalent 
grade from other 
Central Govt. 
Offices . 


[No. 25 -SSI(C)(29) 61.) 
K . N . R . PILLAI, Under Secy . 


PARTli 


SFC 8( ii )] 


TIF GIFTTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 ,VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1677 


ORDER 


New Delhi, the 5th May 1962 


S . O . 1399 / IDRA / 6 / 17 - - In pursuance of Clause ( c ) of Rule 2 of the Develop 
ment Councils (Procedural ) Rules, 1952 , the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shri N . Narasimhan , Assistant Development Officer, Development Wing , New 
Delhi, as the Secretary of the Development Council established by the Order of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce & Industry No . S .O . 1258 
dated the 17th April, 1962 for the scheduled industries engaged in the manufacture 
or production of Paper, Pulp and Allied Industrles, with cflect from the 17th 
April, 1962 , 

[No. 4 ( 38 ) L .Pr. / 61. ) 


CORRIGENDUM 
New Delhi, the 5th May 1962 


S . O . 1400. - In the Ministry of Commerce and Industry Order No. S . O . 819 
Jated the 16th March 1962 ( as amended from time to time ) , published in Part II 
Section 3 Sub Section (ii) of the Gazette of India dated the 24th March , 1962: 
For 21. Shri J. K . Jayawant, Secretary , Rashtriya Mill Mazdoor Sangh , 25 , 

Government Gate Road , Parel, Bombay - 12. 
Reud 21. Shri G . K . Jayawant, Secretary , Rashtriya Mill Mazdoor Sangh , 
Parel Tank Road . Parel, Bombay - 12 , 

[No. 1 ( 3 ) L .Pr. / 62. 1 
B . R . ABHYANKER, Under Secy . 


PATENTS ANI) DESIGNS 


New Delhi, the 4th May 1962 


S . O . 1401. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 72 of the Indian 
Patents and Designs Act, 1911 ( 2 of 1911) , the Central Government hereby 
appoints the Director, Indian Institute of Technology , Kharagpur, for the purposes 
of the said section and makes the following further amendment in the notifcation 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry , No, S . R .O . 
081 dated the 23rd March , 1955 , namely : 

In the said notification, after item No. (25 ) , the following item shall be added , 
namely :-- - 


" (20 ) The Director, Indian Institute of Technology, P .O . Kharagpur Tech 

nology , Kharagpur , S . E . Rly ." 


[No. 18 ( 5 ) - TMP / 62 . 1 


J. C . ELING , Under Secy. 


( Indian Standards Institution ) 
New Delhi, the 30th April 1962 


S . O . 1402, In pursuance of sub - regulations ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of regulation 3 
of the Indian Standards Institution ( Certification Marks ) Regulations, 1955 , the 
ludian Standards Institution hereby notifles that the Indian Standard , particulars 
of which are given in the Schedule hercto annexed , has been cştablished during 
the period 16th April to 30th April 1962. 


1678 


TIIE GAZE ITF OF INDIA MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKHA 22 , 1881 


[PARS II 


THE SCHEDULE 


- 


Si 


No and Title of the Indian 

Standard established 


Bricf Parttilass 


No 


No and Title of the 
Indien Standard 
or Standards, iſ 
any , guperscded 
by the new Indian 

Standard 


( 3 ) 


I IS 1991 - 1962 Specification for 

This standard prescribes the 
Animal Casings for Sausages 

requirements and themethods 
of test for animal casings 
derived from sheep and goats , 
cattle and hogs (Price 
Rs 2 50 ) 

- - - - 
Copies of this Indian Standard are available, for sale, with the Indian 
Standards Institution Manak Bhavan , 9, Mathura Road New Delhi- 1 , and also 
at its Branch Ofices at ( 1 ) 332 Di Dadabhoy Naoroji Road , Fort, Bombay - 1 , 
( 11 ) Third Floor , 11, Sootei kın Street , Calcutta - 13 , ( 111) 2 / 21, First Line Beach , 
Madras - 1, and ( iv ) 14 /69, Cıvıl Lines , Kanpur 

[No MD / 13 2 ] 


So , 1403 . — In partial modification of the rate of marking fee for Macaroni, 
Spaghetti and Vericelli, notified in the Schedule annexed to the Ministry of 
Commerce and Industry ( Indian Standards Institution ) , Notification No SO773 , 
dated 28th March 1961, published in the Gazette of India , Part II — Section 3 -- - 
Sub -section ( 11 ) , dated the 8th April 1961, the Indian Standards Institution 
hercby notifies that the marking fee per unit for Macaroni, Spaghetti and Vermi 
cel t details of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed , has been revis 
ed The levised rate of marking fee shall come into force with cffect from 
15th April 1962 


THE SCHEDULE 


si 
No 


Prolu t/Clais of Product No and Title of relevant Unit 

Indian Standard 


Marking Fcc per Unit 


I 


Macaroni, Spaghetti an IS 1485 - 1959 Specification One 
Vermicelli 

for Macaroni, Spaghetti kg 
and Verinicelli 


2 DP per unit with a 
minimum ofRs 1, 000 oo 
for production during 
a calendar year 


[ No MD / 18 2 ] 


New Delhi, the 3rd May 1962 


SO 1404 - In partial modification of the Standard Marks notified in the 
Schedule annexed to the Munistiy of Commerce and Industry ( Indian Standards 
Institution ) Notification No SO 420 , dated the 11th February 1959 published 
in the Gazette of India , Part II Section 3 – sub - section ( 11 ) , dated the 21st 
February 1959, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifics that the Standard 
Marks for Antifriction Bearing Alloys all grades, design of which together with 
the verbal description of the design and the title of the relevant Indian Standard 
is glven in the Schedule hereto annexed , have been specified . 


Sec. $(ll)] 


THË GA; 


, of 


A : MAY 12, 


VALSA 


22 , 


These Standard Marks for the purpose of the Indian Standards Institution 
(Certification Marks ) Act, 1952 and the Rules and Regulations framed there 
under , shall come into force with immediate effect. 


THE SCHEDULE 


Dezign of the 
Standard Mark 


SI. 


Product Class of No. and Title of 
Product 

relevant Indian 

Standard 


Verbal Description of 
the design of the 
Standard Mark 


No . 


als : 254 


Antifriction Bcaring 

Alloys 


IS : 25 - . 961 Spect- 
fication for Anti 
friction Benring Al 
loys . 


GRADE I 


The monogram of the 

Indian Standards 
Institution , con 
cisting of letters 
ISI, drawn in the 
exact style and 
relative propor 
tions as indica 
ted in Col, ( 2 ) , 
the number desig 
nation of the In 
dian Standard 
being inscribed 
on the top side of the 
monogram and the 
relevant grade 
designation being 
gubscribed under 
the bottom side 
of the monogram 
as incicated in 
the design for 
"GRADE I in 
column ( 2 ). 


[No. MD / 17 : 2 .] 
C . N . MODAWAL , 
Head of the Certifcation Murks Division . 


ERRATA 


S . O . 1405 . - - In the Ministry of Commerce & Industry ( Indian Standards 
Institution ) Notification , Part II, Section 3 , Sub - section ( ii ) , dated 5th February 
1902, published in the Gazette of India , dated 7th April 1962; the following 
mistakes may be corrected : – 
Page 1114 , S . No. 11, col. 5 , line 2 

for Road read Row . 
Page 1116 , S . No. 6 , col. 7, line 1 

for IS : 561- 1953 read IS : 561- 1958 . 


S . O . 1406 .-- In the Ministry of Commerce & Industry ( Indian Standards 
Institution ) Notification published under S . O . 909 in the Gazette of India , Part II , 
Section 3 , Sub - section (ii) , dated 31st March 1962 , the following printing mis 
take may be corrected : - - 
S. No. 5 Col. 4 , line 1 , 

for IS : 114991- 57 
read 13 : 1144 - 1957 . 


i 


HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 / VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


[PART II 


MINISTRY OF STEEL & HEAVY INDUSTRIES 

(Department of Iron & Steel) 

New Delhi, the 5th May 1962 
S . O . 1407 / ESS. COMM / Iron & Steel - AM ( 859) . — The following Notification 
issued by the Iron and Steel Controller under Sub - clause 1 of Clause 27 of the 
Iron and Steel (Control) Order, 1956 , is published for general Information : - - 

" NOTIFICATION 
In exercise of the powers conferred by Şub - cląuse 1 of Clause 27 of the Iron 
and Steel (Control ) Order , 1956 and with the approval of the Central Govern 
ment, the Iron and Steel Controller hereby notifies the following amendment to 
the prices under schedule V - defectives and scrap of the Ministry of Steel, Mines 
& Fuel, Iron and Steel Control, Calcutta Notification No. ISC / AP / 6260 published 
in Part III , Section 1 of the Gazett . of India dated 24th December 1980 : 

Amendment 
Under Part III — Melting scrap , 
Item No. 10 , 
For the existing entries substitute the following: 


Rate per M / Ton at all Rallhead Stations in India 

Col. I Col. II Col. III 


10 . Ingot Mould Scrap 

( 50 Kg. and under ) Rs, 192 /- 


Rs. 207 / 


A . N . BANERJI, 
Iron and Steel Controller ." 

(No. Sc ( C ) -2 ( 147) / 60 .] 
J. S . BAIJAL , Under Secy 


(Department of Iron and Steel) 

New Delhi, the 7th May 1962 
S . O . 1408 / ESS .COMM / IRON & STEEL / 4 , 5 , 7 , 18 & 20 . – The following Notifi 
cations issued by the Government of India and published in the Gazette of India , 
Part II, Section 3 , are hereby cancelled : 
1 . No . S . R . O . 657 / ESS .COMM / IRON AND STEEL - 4 , 5 , 18 and 20 dated 

23rd February , 1957 issued by the late Ministry of Heavy Industries 

and published in the Gazette of India dated the 2nd March , 1957 . 
2 . No . S . O . 2510 / ESS. COMM / IRON AND STEEL 4 , 5 & 7 dated the 4th 

November , 1959 issued by the late Ministry of Steel, Mines und Fuel 

in the Gazette of India dated the 14th November, 1959. 
3 . No . S . O . 209 / ESS .COMM / IRON AND STEEL -- 4 , 5 & 7 dated the 15th 

January , 1960 issued by the late Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel 

and published in the Gazette of India dated the 23rd January , 1960. 
4 . No. S . O . 2322 / ESS . COMM / IRON AND STEEL - 4 , 5 & 7 dated the 15th 

September , 1960 issued by the late Ministry of Steel, Mincs and Fuel 

and published in the Gazette of India dated the 24th September, 1960 . 
5 , No. S . O , 439 / ESS .COMM / IRON AND STEEL — 4 , 5 , 18 & 20 dated the 

16th February , 1961 issued by the late Ministry of Steel, Mines and 
Fuel and published in the Gazette of India dated the 25th February , 
1961. 

( No . SCCA ) - 1 ( 55 ) / 62 . ] 
H , S. GILL , Under Secy . 


Sec . 8(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962/ VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1681 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 


( Department of Agrloulture ) 


New Delhi, the 30th April 1962 


S . O . 1409. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Agricultural 
Produce (Grading and Marking ) Act, 1937 ( 1 of 1937 ) , the Central Government 
hereby makes the following ruleg, the same having been previously published as 
required by the said Section , 


MYROBALAN GRADING AND MARKING RULES , 1962 


1. Short title and application . ( 1 ) These rules may be called the Myrobalan 
Grading and Marking Rules, 1962. 

(2 ) They shall apply to Myrobalan ( Terminalia chebulla ) produced in India . 
2 . Definitions. In these rules, — 
( a ) " Agricultural Marketing Adviser" means the Agricultural Marketing 

Adviser to the Government of India ; 


( b ) " Schedule" means a Schedule to these rules . 


3 . Grade dosignations. Grade designations to indicate the quality of Myrobalan 
shall be as set out in column 2 of schedules I to IV . 


4 . Definition of quality . The special and general characteristics of the quality 
indicated by such grade designations shall be as set out in columns 3 to 6 of 
Schedules I to IV . 


5 . Grado designation marks. The grade designation mark shall consist of a 
label bearing a design ( consisting of an outline map of India with the word 
" AGMARK " and the figure of rising sun with the words " Produce of India " ) 
resembling that set out in Schedule V and specifying the grade designation , 


6 . Method of marking. - ( 1 ) Thę grade designation mark shall be securely 
applied to each container in a manner approved by the Agricultural Marketing 
Adviser In addition to the grade designation mark , each container shall be 
marked with such particulars and in such manner as may be specified by the 
said officer from time to time. 


( 2 ) An authorised packer may after obtaining the prcvious approval of the 
Agricultural Marketing Adviser mark his private trade mark on a container in 
a manner approved by the said officer ; provided that the private trade mark does 
not represent a quality or grade of myrobalan different from that indicated by 
the grade designation mark affixed on the container in accordance with these 
rules. 


7 . Method of packing . - ( 1 ) Sound and clean jute gunnies shall be used for 
packing myrobalans and these shall be securely closed and sealed in a manner 
approved by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser , 


( 2 ) Each package or container shall contain only myrobalans of one grade 
designation only . Where more than one package is put in a large container , all 
the packages shall bear Agmark labels and the outer container shall also bear 
the Agmark label, 


8 . Special conditions of Certificate of Authorisation . In addition to the con 
ditions specified in rule 4 of the General Grading and Marking Rules, 1937 , the 
conditions set out in Schedule VI shall be the conditions of every Certificate of 
Authorisation issued for the purpose of these rules . 


I 682 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


[PART II 


SCHEDULE I 

( See rules 3 and 4 ) 
Grade designations and definition of quality of whole myrobalan nuts commercially known as fubul 
pores ” grown in the States of Madhya Pradesh , Bihar, Orissa and Andhra 

Pradesh 


Trade Name 


Grade - . 
Designation 


Gencral charac 

teristics 


Special characteristics 
Colour * Extraneous 

natter 
not 
exceeding Tolerance 
(by weight) 
( 4 ) 

(5) 


(6 ) 


J . I . S . 


I. Jubulporc 

No. I Special 


2 . Jubulpore 

No. I . 


J. I. 


Yellow to I percent Shall not contain Shall be bound 
yellowish 

more than 5 per- and solid nuta 
brown 

cent Tubulpore free from in 
No. II . 

sect attack and / 

or broken nuts 
Do . 2 . 5 percent Shall not contain 

more than is per Do. 
cent Jubulpore 

No, il . 
Yellowish 3 . 0 percent Shall not contain Do. 
to brownish 

more than 25 
black 

per cent deca 
yed and hollow 

nuts. 
Brownish 5 percent 
black 


Jubulpore 
Average 


J.A . 


4 . Jubulpore 

No. 11 


J. II 


* This comprises dust, crushed matter, sceds and other foreign matter . 


SCHEDULE II 

( See rules 3 and 4 ) 
Grade d signations and definition ofquality of crushed myrobalan derived from whole nuts commercially 
known ; qubbulpores " grown in the States of Madhya Pradesh , Bihar , Orissa and Andhra 

Pradesh 


Trade Dame 


Special characteristics 
Grade 

General characteristics 
designation 

* Myrobalan * * Chicken Kernel 
dust not feed not seeds not 
exceeding exceeding exceedng 
(by weight ) (by weight) (by weight) 
. (3 ) ( 4 ) (5 ) 

(6 ) 


I , Crushed No. I 

International 


C . I. I . 


26 percent 


10 percent 


3 percent 


2 . Crushed No. I , C . I. 


5 percent 


Ig percent 


4 percent 


Shall be made from 
whole nuts J. I. S . 
quality of Sche 
dule I. 
Shall be made from 
whole nuts of 

Tubulpore Avc 
rage (J . A .) of 
Schedule-Y 


3 . Crushed Average 


C . A . 


Io percent 


20 percent 


5 percent 


* Anything passing through 16 mesh sieve . 
* * Anything passing through 8 mesh sieve . 


Sec. 3( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 / VALSAKHA 22 , 1884 


1683 


A 


SCHEDULE III 

( See rules 3 and 4 ) 
Grado losignations and definition of quality ofchole myrobalan nuts commercially known as“ Bhimlis" 

grown in the States of Maharashtra and Mysore 


Special characteristics 


Trade Name 


Grade - 
designation 


- - 


General 

characteristics 


Colour 


Tolerance 


* Extrancous 
matter 
not 
exceeding 
(by weight) 


( 6 ) 


- (1) (2 ) 
L Bhimlig Fine B . F . 


(3 ) 
Greenish to 
yellowish 


. Bhimlis No. 1 B . I. 


Yellow to 
brownish 


I percent 5 percent of Shall be sound and 
next lower grade solid nuts free from 

insect attack and / or 

broken nuts . 
I percent Shall not con - Shall be sound and 

tain more than Bolid nuts free 
5 percent hol- from Insect attack 
low and deca - end, or broken nuts. 

yed nuts . 
2 . 5 percent Shall not con 

Do. 
tain more than 
25 percent hollow 
and decayed 
nuts . 


. Bhimlig 
Average 


B . A 


Do . 


* This comprises dust, dirt, crushed matter,seeds and other foreign matter. 


* This 


SCHEDULE IV 


( See rules 3 and 4 ) 
Grade designations and definition of quality of whole myrobalan nuts commercially knoron as “ Raja 

pores " grown in Maharashtra and Mysore States 


Special characteristics 


Trade name 


Grade 
designation - 


General 
characteristics 


Colour 


Colour 


n eren met een 


Tolerance 


* Extraneous 
metter not 
exceeding 
(by weight) 

( 4 ) 


( 3) 


( 5 ) 


(6 ) 


1 . Rajapore No. R . I. 


to 


Brownish 

brownish 
black 


Shall be sound and 
Bolid nuts frce from 
insect attack and /or 
broken nuts . 


2 . Bombay 

J . I. 


B . J. I. 


Brownish 
black to 
black 


I percent Shall not con - 

tain more than 
6 percent de 
cayed and hol - 

low nuts . 
5 percent Shall not con 

tain more than 
so percenthol 
low and decayed 

nuts . 
IQ percent 


3 . Rajapore 

No. 2 . 


R . II. 


Do, 


* This comprises dust, dirt, crushed matter , seeds and other foreign matter. 


1684 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :MAY 12 , 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


Fakt O 


SCHEDULE V 


( See Rule 5 ) 


MAP OF INDIA 


< AGMARK 


UCA 


भारतीय उत्पाद 
இருசியப்பொருள்கள் 
2002or Goedjes 


PROD 


NOTE , — The Tamil and Telugu words will not occur in the labels in case where 
commodities are graded for the purpose of export. 


SCHEDULE VI 


( See Rule 8 ) 


( 1 ) An authorised packer shall make such arrangements for testing 
myrobalans as may be prescribed, and samples thercof shall be forwarded to such 
control laboratory as may be notifind from timc to time by the Agricultural 
Marketing Adviser to the Government of India , 


( 2 ) An authorised packer shall provide such facilities to Inspecting Officers 
duly authorised by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of 
India , for the sampling , testing and affixation of grade designation marks ag 
may be prescribed from time to time by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser to 
the Government of India . 


( 3 ) All instructions regarding the methods of sampling, analysis , packing etc . 
which may be issued by the Agricultural Marketing Advisor to the Government 
of India , shall be strictly observed . 


[ N .). F . 17 - 2 /61 -AM .) 


SEC . 3( il )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962 / VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


1685 


S . O . 1410 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural 
Produce (Grading and Marking ) Act, 1937 ( 1 of 1937 ) , the Central Government 
hereby makes the following rules, the same having been previously published . 


CARDAMOM GRADING AND MARKING RULES, 1962 


1. Short title and application ( 1 ) These rules may be called the Cardamom 
Grading and Marking Rules , 1962 . 


( 2) They shall apply to Cardamom 
and intended for export . 


Elettaria cardamomum produced in India 


2. Defpitions.- - In these rules : 


( a ) " Agricultural Marketing Adviser " means the Agricultural Marketing 

Adviser to the Government of India ; 


(b ) " Schedule" means a Schedule to these rules. 


3 . Grade Designations. - Grade designations to indicate the 
Cardamom shall be as set out in column 1 of Schedules I to VI, 


quality of 


4 . Definition of quality . - - The quality indicated by the grade designations shall 
be as set out against each designation in Schedules I to VI. 


5 . Grade Designation Marks . The Grade designation mark shall consist of 
a label bearing a design ( consisting of an outline map of India with the word 
AGMARK and the figure of rising sun with the words " Produce of India " ) 
resembling that set out in Schedule VII. 


6 . Method of Marking . - ( 1 ) The grade designation mark shall be securely 
applied to each container in a manner approved by the Agricultural Marketing 
Adviser , In addition to the grade designation mark , each container shall be 
marked with such particulars and in such manner as may be specified by the 
aforesaid officer from time to time. 


( 2 ) An authorised packer may , after obtaining the previous approval of the 
Agricultural Marketing Adviser , mark his private trade mark on a container 
in a manner approved by the said Officer , provided that the private trade mark 
does not represent a quality or grade of cardamom different from that indicated 
by the grade designation mark affixed on the container in accordance with these 
rules, 


7 . Method of Packing .- ( 1 ) Cardamom capsules shall be packed in clean and 
sound containers e .g . wooden cases suitably lined with water -proof or oraft paper 
or new jute bags with water - proof lining . 


plate 


containers or 


Cardamom Seeds shall be packed in clean and drytin 
wooden cases lined with water -proof of craft paper, 


( 2 ) Each container shall be securely closed and sealed in a manner approved 
by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser , 


( 3 ) Each package or container shall contain only goods of the crop of the 
year specified and ot one grade designation only . Where more than one package 
is put in a large container, all the packages shall bear Agmark labels and the 
outer container shall also bear an Agmark label indicating particulars of the 
contents . 


8 . Special Conditions of Certificate of Authorisation . - In addition to the con 
ditions specified in rule 4 of the General Grading and Marking Rules, 1937 , the con 
ditions set out in Schedule VIII shall be the conditions of every certificate of 
Authorisation issued for the purpose of these rules 


1686 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


[PART 1) 


SCHEDULE I 


(Ses rulce 3 And 


4 ) 


Grade ,designations and definitions of quality of ALLEPPY GREEN * Cardamoms 


Grade designa - 

tion 


Special characteristics 
Trade Name - 

- Weight in 
Empty Immature Size G ./ L . General 
and and Diameter 

characteristics 
malformed shrivellcd of holes in 
capsules , capsules , m . m . of the Minimum 
percent percent seive on 
by count, by weight which 
Maximum Maximum retained 

Tolerance 
35 percent 


AGS 


AGS _ 


Cardigan 


to 


4 . 0 


Cardamom 
Superior 


00 


5 .0 


385 


The carda 
mom shall bo 
the dried cap 
gules 

of 
Elettaria care 
damom grown 
in South India 
kiln dried ; 


AGS I 


3 . 0 


70 


10 


, Shipment 

Green I 


350 having a rea 

Honably uniform 
shade of green 
colour three 
comered and 
having a ribbed 
appearance . 


AGS 2 


Shipment 
Groti 2 


3 . 0 


7 . 0 


320 


The capgutc . 
shall be free 
from visible 
mould and 
Insect infestation . 


AGL 


. Light 


. 


. 


260 Thrip marka 

alone on the 
capsules shall 
pot lead to the 
conclusion that 
the capsuler 
have been in 
fosted by In 
gocts . 


Tolerance of grey and cream colours upto 25 per cent permitted . 


Definition of termin 


Foot and malformed capsules. Capsules which bav : DO gecds or are scantily filled with seeds . 
For this purpose 100 capsules selected at random from the sample shall be opened out and the num 
ber of empty and malformed capsules counted . 

Immature and shrivelled capsules. - Caprules which are not fully developed . 


Osn . 3(11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : MAY 12 , 1982 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1687 


SCHEDULE II 


( See rules 3 and 4 ) 
Grade, designations and definitions of quality of COORG CLIPPED CARDAMOMS. 


Grade 
Designation 


Trade Name 


General 
characteristics 


Special characteristics 

Weight 
Empty Unclipped Immature Size G / L . 
and capsules and (Dia - Minimum 
mal- percent Shrive - meter 
formed by lled of 
capsules count capsules holes 
percentMaximum per in m , m . 
by 

cut of the 
count 

by 

Bieve 
Maxi 

weight on 
Ішті 

Maxt which 
mum retained 

Tole 
Tance 
Es per 
cont. 


5 . 0 


0 . 0 


0 . 0 


8 . 5 


30 


30 


40 


00 


Coors Green 
or Motta 
Groen 


Shipment . 


3.0 


5.0 


70 40 


390 


435 The Cardamom 

shall be the 
driod capsula 

of Elettaria . 
385 Cardo 

grown in 
Mangalore and 
Coorg districts 
of Mysore ; 
colour ranglag 
from pale yellow 
to brown 
global shape 
skin ribbed or 
smooth ; tho 

pedicels scparo 
260 ted . The capsules 

shall be free 
from visible 
mould and in 
sect infestation . 

Thrip morta 
alone on the 
Capsule Chall 
not lead to 
the conclusion 
that the cap 
gulcs have 
been infested 
by insects. 


Light 


. 


.. 


.. 


35 


Definition of torms 
Empry and malformod capsules .- Capsules which have po scedo or are scentily filled with geeds. 

For this purpose Too Capsules selected at random from the sample shall be opened out and tho 
number of empty aid malformed Capsules counted . 

Immature and shrivelled capsules. - Capsules which are not fully developed . 
Unclipped Capsulas .- Capsules in which the tips have not been trimmed . 


1688 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


[PART II 


SCHEDULE III 


( See Rules 3 and 4 ) 


Grade, designations and definitions of quality of BLEACHED OR / AND HALF BLEACHED 

Cardamom . 


Special characteristics 


Grade designation 


ature 


Weight G / L 
Maximum 


Empty and Immature 
malformed and Shri 
capsules ; velled 
per cent capgulcs 
by count per cent 
Maximum by weight 

Maximum 


Gencral charac 
teristies 


Size 
(Diameter 
of holes 
in mm . of 
the sleve 
on which 
retained ) 
Tolerance 
$ 5 per cent 
Maximum 


BL 1 


. 


0.0 


0.0 


8 .5 


340 The cardamom 

shall be the fully 
developed dried 
capsules of Elcttaria 
cardamomum . 


BL 2 


on 


270 


bleached and/ or hall 

bleached by şul 
phuring i Co 
lour ranging from 
pale cream to white ; 


BL 3 . . 


(1 ) 


( 1 


) 


o o 


280 Global or three 

cornered with skin 

ribbed or smooth . 
The capsules shall 

be free from 
vigibe mould and 
insect infestation . 
Thrip marks alone 
on the capsules shall 
not lead to the 
conclusion that the 
capsules have been 
Infestd by insects . 


Definition of terms. 


Empty and malformed Capsules - Capsules which have no secds or are scantily filled with 
seeds. For this purpose 100 Capsules gelected at random from the sample shall be opened out and 
the number of empty and malformed Capsulce counted . 


Immature and 


Shrivelled Capsules. - Capsules which are not fully developed . 


SEC. $ (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962 /VALSAKHA 22 , 1884 


1689 


SCHEDULE IV 


( See Rules 3 


and 4 ) 


Grade designation and definitions of quality » 


LEA CHABLE WHITE Cardamoms 


Special characteristics 


Grade designa 

tion 


Trade name 


Empty Immature Size , Wcight General 
and and (Dig - G . / L . characteristics 
mal - Shrivel- meter 
formed led of holes 

Capsules capsules in m . m . 
percent percent of the Minimum 
by count by sicye 
Maxi- weight on which 
mum Maxi- retained ) 
mum Tole 

rance 
£ 5 per 
çent. 


(2 ) 


BWI 


10 


0 .0 


7 .0 


460 


. Mysore /Manga 

lore Bleachable 
Cardamom A . 
Clipped 


Thc cardamoms shall 

be the fully deve 
loped dried cap 
sules of Blottaria 
Cardamomum grown 
in Mysore State 
with a reasonable . 


BW 


2 


1.0 


0 .0 


7 .0 


Mysore /Mangalore 
Bleachable 
Cardamom A . 
Unclipped 


460 uniform shade of 

white , light green 
or light grey co 
lour and guitable 
for bleaching. 1 


BW 


3 


. 


2 . 0 


0 . 0 


4 . 3 


Mysore /Mangalore 
Bleachable 
Bulk Carda 
mom Clipped 


435 The capsulcs shall be 

free from visible 
mould and insect 
infestation , 


BW 4 


2 : 0 


0 : 0 


4 . 3 


Mysore /Mangalore 

Bleachable 
Bulk Carda 
mom -Unclip 

ped . 


435 Thrip marks alone 

on the capsules shall 
not lead to the con 
clusion that the 
capuules have been 
infested by Insects , 


Dafinition of terms. 

Empty and malformed capsules. - Capsulcs which have no seeds or are scantily filled with serds . 
For this purpose 100 capsules selected at random from the sample shall be opened out and the 
rumber of empty and malformed capsules counted . 

Immature and shrtvolled capsules. - Capsules which are not fully developed . 


1690 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :MAY 12 , 1962/VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


[PART II 


SCHEDULE V 

( See Rules 3 and 4) 
Grade designations and definitions of quality of ALLEPPEY CARDAMOM SEEDS 


Grade designation Trade name 


General characteristici 


Extra 


Special characteristics 

- 
* * Light Weight 
nicous Seeds in G . / L . 
matter percent Minimum 
percent by weight 
by weight Maximum 
Maximum 


(3 ) 


AS 1 


. Prime 


I . O 


3 .0 


675 Shall be the decorticated 

and dry gecds of any 
variety of Elettarta 
cardamomum grown in 
Kerala 
State and the Southern 
districts of Madras State . 
The secds shall be free 
from visible mould and 
insect infestation . 


460 


AS 2 
AS 3 


· Shipment 
, * Brokous 


5 . 0 


Definicion of forms 
* Brokons. — Include brown , red , immature and shrivelled seeds. 

Extannus matter . - Includes calyx pieces , stalk bits and other foreign matter. 
* * Light seeds. Include seeds brown or red in colour and broken , immature and shrivelled seed 


SCHEDULE VI 

( Sec Rules 3 and 4 ) 
Grade designations and definitions of quality of MANGALORE CARDAMOM SEEDS 


General characterlstics 


Grade designation Trade Name Special characteristics 

Extr . Light Weight 
neous seeds in G ./ L , 
matter Percent Minimum 
percent by weight 
by weight Maximum 
Maximum 


3 ) 


MSI 


Primo 


. 


IO 


30 


6 73 


Shall be the decorticated 
and dry scode of any 
variety of Blottarta oat 
damomum grown In Marr 
galore and Coorg districte 
of Mysore State 
The seeds shall be free 
from visible mould end 
Insect infestation . 


0 


MO 2 
MS 3 


Shipment 
. * Brokens 


200 
90 


. . 


. 


Definition of terms : 

* Brokons. - Include brown , red , immaturc and shrivelled seeds. 
Extranerus matter . - Includes Calyx pieces, stalk bits and other foreign matter. 
* * Light seeds. - Include seeds brown or red in colour and broken , immature and shrivelled sceda, 


SEC. ( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 / VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


1691 


SCHEDULE VII 

(See Rule 5 ) 
MAP OF INDIA 


MARK 


IONI 


भारतीय उत्पाद 
இந்தியப் பொருள் 
296 au coeur 


NOTH . - - The Tamil and Telugu words will not occur in the labelo in care where 
commodities are graded for the purpose of export . 


SCHEDULE VIII 

( See Rule 8) 
( a ) An authorised packer shall make such arrangements for testing Carda 
noms as may be prescribed , and samples thereof shall be forwarded to such 
control laboratory as may be notified from time to time, by the Agricultural 
Marketing Advisor. 


1692 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAI 12, 1962 ,VISAKHA 22, 1881 


[PART II 


( b ) An authorised packer shall provide such facilities to Inspecting Officers 
duly authorised by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser for sampling, testing and 
afflxation of grado designation marks , as may be prescribed from time to time. 

(c ) All instructions regarding the methods of sampling and analysis , sealing 
and marking the containers and maintenance of records, etc . which may be issued 
from time to time by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser shall be observed . 

[No. F . 17 - 12 /81- AM (1 ) .] 
V . S . NIGAM , Under Secy. 


(Indian Comelite Astanatural Res 


( Department of Agriculture ) 
( Indian Council of Agricultural Research ) 

New Delhi, the 3rd May 1962 
S . O . 1411 .- - In pursuance of the provisions of clause ( 1 ) of section 4 of the 
Indian Coconut Committee Act , 1944 ( 10 of 1944 ) the Government of India have 
been pleased to appoint the Joint Secretary to the Government of India , Ministry 
of Finance , Agriculture Division , New Delhi as a member of the Indian Central 
Coconut Committee for the period ending 31st March 1965 . 

[NO. 12 -2 / 62- Com .I. ] 
S . O . 1412 . - - In pursuance of the provisions of clause ( f ) of section 4 of the 
Indian Coconut Committee Act , 1944 ( 10 of 1944 ) the Government of India have 
been pleased to appoint the Agricultural Commissioner with the Government of 
India , New Delhi- 1 / Additional Agricultural Commissioner with the Government 
of India , New Delhi- 1 as a member of the Indian Central Coconut Committee for 
a period of three years ending 31st March 1965 , 

[No. 12 - 2 / 62-Com . I. ] 
New Delhi, the 6th May 1962 
8 . 0 . 1413 . - The Government of Madhya Pradesh having nominated the Oil 
seeds Development Officer , Directorate of Agriculture, Bhopal and renominated 
Shri Suresh Chandra, Secretary, Madhya Pradesh Young Farmer s Association , 
Gotegaon District , Narsingpur, as members of the Indian Central Oilseeds Com 
mittee to represent the State Government and the Oilseeds growers of the State 
respectively under Şub -Section ( e ) and ( f ) of Section 4 of the Indian Ollseeds 
Committee Act, 1948 ( 9 of 1946 ) , the Central Government hereby notifles that 
the aforesaid persons shall be members of the said Committee for the period 
ending 318t March , 1965 . 

[No. 8- 22 / 62 - Com .II. ] 
SANTOKH SINGH , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 1st May 1962 
S . O . 1414 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( f ) of section 3 
of the Dentists Act, 1948 ( 16 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby nomi 
pates the following persons as members of the Dental Council of India with 
veffect from the 5th August , 1962, namely : -- 

1. Col. N . N . Bery . 

Hony , Dental Adviser, Ministry of Health , 

13 , Curzon Road , New Delhi. 
2 . Dr. N . Pinto De Rosario , 

Staff Surgeon (Dental ) , 

Willingdon Hospital, New Delhi. 
3 . Dr. J. C . Manchanda, 

Principal. 
Punjab Dental College, 
Amritsar . 


Sec. 9 (!!)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1693 


4. Col R . N . Dogri , 

Army Dental Corps, 

Armed Forces Dental College, Poona. 
6 . Dr. L N Mathur , 

Dental Surgeon , 
College of Medical Sciences , 
Banaras Hindu University , Varanasl. 


(No. F , 3 - 2 / 02 -MIL ) . 


S . O . 1415 . - Dr. Amiya Kumar Şen , 162 / 21 / 1, Lake Gardens, Calcutta -31 bas 
been duly elected as a member of the Dental Council of India under clause 
( d ) of section 3 of the Dentists Act, 1948 ( 16 of 1948 ) , with effect from the 
20th March , 1962 vice Dr. ( Capt . ) P . Mukherjee whose term of office expired . 
on the 19th March , 1962, 

[No. F . 3 -2 / 62 -MIL ) 
R . MURTHI, Under Secy 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT & COMMUNICATIONS 

(Department of Transport ) 
( Transport Wing ) 

PORTS 

New Delhi, the 30th April 1962 
S . O . 1416 . - In pursuance of rules 33 and 34 of the Harbour Craft Rules for 
the Port of Madras, 1935, the Central Government hereby makes the following : 
further amendments to the rules for the grant of certificates of competency or 
permits to Masters and Syrangs , Engineers and Engine -drivers of mechanically 
propelled craft plying in the port of Madras published with the notification of 
the Government of India , in the late Department of War Transport No. 19 - P 
( 13 ) / 40 - III, dated the 28th May , 1946, namely : 
In the said rules, 
( 1) in rule 19 , for the words " the last" the word " one" shall be substi 

tuted ; and 
(2 ) In rule 22 the words " the last" shall be omitted. 

[No. 13 - PG ( 19 ) / 62.) 
HARBANS SINGH , Under Secy , 


(Departments of Communications and Civil Aviation ) 


New Delhi, the 30th April 1962 


8 . 0 , 1417 ,---- On his resignation Shri S . R . Vasavada ceased to be a Member 
of the Boards of the Indian Airlines Corporation and Air India International 
Corporation with effect from 7th December , 1961, 

[No. 3 -CA (6 ) / 61. J 


New Delhi, the 5th May 1962 


S . O . 1418 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 4 of the Air Cor 
porations Act , 1953 (27 of 1953), the Central Government hereby appoints , with 
Immediate effect, Shri S . R . Vasavada as a Member of the Air India International 
Corporation and the Indian Airlines Corporation . 


[No. 3 -CA ( 6 ) / 81 ) 


K . GOPALAKRISHNAN , Dy. Secy . . 


1694 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


Part II 


(Department of Communications & Civil Aviation ) 

( P . & T . Board ) 

New Delhi, the 4th May 1962 
8 . O . 1419 . - In pursuance of sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 11 , clause (b ) of sub - rule ( 2 ) of 
rule 14 of sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 23 of the Central Civil Services (Classifcation , Con 
trol and Appeal) Rules, 1957, the President hereby makes the following further 
Amendments in the Schedule to the notifcation of the Government of India in the 
late Ministry of Communications ( Posts and Telegraphs) No . S . R . O > 620 dated the 
28th February, 1957, namely : 

In the said Schedule , 

in Part II , General Central Service, Class III, under the heading " Office of the 
General Manager , Posts and Telegraphs Workshops and other Ofices under bl. 
Jurlødiction " , for the existing entries in columns 1 to 5, the following sub-headings 
and entries shall be substituted , namely : 


2 


3 


BEC,ü 


Office of the GeneralManager , Posis and 
Telegraphs Workshops . 
Office Superintendent . General Manager, Posts 

Telegraphe Workshops , 


All 


and Generai Manager , Post and 

Telegraphs Workshops. 


Posts and Telegraphs Workshop 

Board . 


Deputy General Manager, Posts 

and Telegraphs Workshops . 


) to (ii) General Manager , Posts and 

Telegraphs Workshops . 


General Manager , Posts and 

Telegraphs Workshops . 


Industrial Relations Assistant, Deputy GeneralManager, Posts Deputy General Manager, Posts All. 
Staff in Higher and lover Selec - and Telegraphs Workshops . and Telegraphs Workshops . 
tion grades or in identical scales 
of pay ; Assistant Foreman . 


Assistant General Manager, (i) to ( il) Deputy General Manager , Posts 
Posts and Telegraphs Work 

and Telegraphs Workshops. 
shops. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MAY12,1962/VAISAKHA22,1884 


Draftsman Grade I 


Deputy General Manager, Posts Deputy General Manager , Posts All 

and Telegraphs Workshops, and Telegraphs Workshops , 


General Manager, Posts and 

Telegraphs Workshops. 


Officers in Class II. 


(i) to ( iu ) Assistant General Manager , 

Posts and Telegraphs Work 
shops. 


All other posts 


Assistant GeneralManager, Posts Assistant GeneralManager, Posts All . Deputy General Manager, Posts 
and Telegraphs Workshops . and Telegraphs Workshops. 

and Telegraphs Workshops. 
Officers in Class II, 

(1) to (i ) Assistant General Manager, 

Posts and Telegraphs Work 
shops. 


cm 


1695 


1696 


3 


and 


Ojrces of Managers, Telegraphs/ Telephones Workshoos, 
Security Officer ; Planning Ins - Manager , Workshops . 
pector ; Industrial Relations 
Assistant; Staff in Higher and 
Lower Selection grades or in 
identical scales of pay ; Exchange 
Inspector Grade I ; Chief Store 
Keeper ; Medical Officer (Class 
III) ; Laboratory Assistant ; 
Chemist ; Head Draftsman ; 
Design Draftsman ; Assistant 
Foreman , 


Manager, Workshops, 

All General Manager , Posts 

Telegraphs Workshops. 
Officers of General Central (1) to (iii ) Manager, Workshops . 
Service Class I in Senior Time 
scale . 


Manager, Workshops . 


All 


General Manager , Posts and 

Telegraphs Workshops , 


Draftsman Grade I ; Building Manager, Workshops . 
Overseer ; Welfare Superin 
teadent ; Assistant Supervisory 
Test Clerk ; Inspector of Watch 
and Ward ; Nurse ; Electrician ; 
Head Test Clerk . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MAY12,1962/VAISAKHA22,1884 


Officers in Class II 


(1) to ( iii ) Officers of General Central Ser 

vice Class I in Senior Time 
Scale . 


All other posts . 


All, 


Manager , Workshops. 


Officers of General Central Officers ofGeneral Central Ser- 

Service Class I in Senior vice Class I in Senior Time 
Time Scale . 

Scale . 


Officers in Class II . 


(1) to ( in ) Oficers of General Central 

Service Class I in Senior 
Time Scale. " 


(No. 44 /5/62-DISC.) 


PARI 


Sec . 8(ti)] 


THE GAZETTÈ OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


1697 


New Delhi, the 12th May 1962 
S .O . 1420. — In pursuance of sub - rule 11, clause (b ) of sub -rule (2 ) of rule 14 
and sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 23 of the Central Civil Services ( Classification , Control 
and Appeal) Rules , 1957 , the President hereby makes the following amendment 
in the notification of the Government of India in th : late Ministry of Communi 
vations (Posts and Telegraphs) No, S . R . O . 620 , dated the 28th February , 1957 , 
namely : 
In part II, General Central Service , Class III of the schedule to the said 

notifcation , under the heading " Telegraph Offices under the charge 
of officers of Telegraph Trac Service , Class I or Class II, Officers 
of Telegraph Engincering and Wireless Service , Class II, Telegraph 
Masters and Telegraphists " , after the item " Ministerial staff in Cleri 
cal Grades " in column 1 and the entries relating thereto , the follow 
ing item and entries shall be inserted , namely : 


(3 ) 


Inspectors 

Peong . 


Director of Tele 

graphe All Director of 
Posts and Tele 
graphs. 


Officer of Telegraph 

Traffic Service, Class 


of Officers of Telcgraph Officer of Tele All 

Traffic Service, graph Traffic Ser 
Class I Tole- ice , Class I , Tele 
graph Traffic Scr - graph Traſlic Ser 
vicc Class II , and vice , Cluss II and 
Telegraph Engin - Telegraph Engin 
cering and Wireless ecring and Wireless 
Service , Class II Service Class II 
( in respect of staff (in respect of staff 
in Telegraph Offi - in Tclegruph offi 
ces under his ad - ces under his ad 
ministrative control) ministrutivc con 

trol) . 
Officer of Tele - (i) to (iii) 
graph Traffic Ser 
vice, Class II (in 
respect of staff 
working in an office 
under the charge 
of an Officer 
of Telegraph 
Traffic Service , 

Class II), 
Divisional Engineer Divisionul Engineer, All 

Telegraphs ( in Telegraphs (in 
respect of telegraph respect of telegraph 
offices under the oflices under the 
charge of non charge of non 
gazetted officials gazetted officials 
in Assam , Mysore in Assum , Mysore 
and Orissa Circles ) and Orissa Circles ) 
Personal Assistant Prsal Assistant, All 

Traffic in respect Traffic ( in respect 
of Staff working in of staff working in 
other Telegraplı other telegraph 
Officc8 ). 

affices). 


Director of Telc 

graphg ; Director of 
Posts and Tele 
graphs. 


Director of Tele 

graphs ; Director of 
Posts and Telo 
graphs. ; 


[No. 44 / 10 / 60 -DISC . ) 

D . K . AGARWAL , 
Assistant Director General ( Sea ) . 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING & SUPPLY 

New Delhi, the 25th April 1962 
S . O . 1421.-- In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the Prcsident hereby makes the following rules to amend the 
Upper Division Clerks ( Directorates of Inspection , Calcutta , Bombay , Madras 


1698 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :MAY 12 , 1962/VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


(Part 11 


Kanpur, Tatanagar , Burnpur and N . W . I. Circle , New Delhi ) Recruitment Rules, 
1961 , published with the notification of the Government of India , Ministry of 
Works Housing and Supply. G . S . R . 819 dated the 8th June, 1961 , namely : 

1 . These rules may be called the Upper Division Clerks (Directorates of 
Inspection , Calcutta , Bombay, Mudras, Kanpur , Tatanagar , Burnpur and N . W . I . 
Circle , New Delhi) Recruitment Amendment Rules, 1962. 

2 . In the Schedule to the Upper Division Clerks ( Directorates of Inspection , 
Calcutta , Bombay , Madras , Kanpur, Tutanagar, Burnpur and N . W . I. Circle , New 
Delhi) Recruitment Rules, 1961, for the existing entry in column 10 , the following 
entry shall be substituted, namely - 
" 2 years" . 

[No. 49 / 24 / 60-ESII.] 
New Delhi, the 2nd May 1962 
S . O . 1422 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules to amend the 
Upper Division Clerks ( The Government Test House, Calcutta ) Recruitment Rules, 
1961, published with the notification of the Government of India , Ministry of 
Works, Housing and Supply G . S . R . 818 dated the 8th June, 1961, namely : — 

1. These rules may be called the Upper Division Clerks ( The Government 
Test House , Calcutta ) Recruitment Amendment Rules, 1962. 

2 . In the Schedule to the Upper Division Clerks ( The Government Test House , 
Calcutta ) Recruitment Rules , 1961, for the existing entry in column 10 , the follow 
ing entry shall be substituted namely 
" 2 years " . 

[No. 49 (23) / 60 -ESII.] 
R . RAJAGOPALAN , Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 2nd May 1962 
S . O . 1423 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Public 
Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants ) Act, 1958 (32 of 1958 ) . the Central 
Government hereby appoints the Manager , Hotel Janpath , New Delhi, being a 
gazetted ofcer of the Government, to be the estate officer for the purposes of the 
said Act in respect of the premises of Hotel Janpath , New Delhi. 

[ No . 15 (8 ) / 62-EEII.) 
R . C . MEHRA , Under Secy . 


(Department of Rehabilſtation ) 
( Office of the Chlef Settloment Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 1st May 1962 
S . O . 1424. - In exercisc of the powers confcrrcd by Sub - Section ( 1 ) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act , 1954 (44 of 
1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri P . N . Bhanot , as Settlement 
Commissioner for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such 
Commissioner by or under the said act with effect from 1st May, 1962 . 

[ No, 12 ( 2) / ARG /62-( 11 ).] 


New Delhi, the 2nd May 1962 
8 .0 , 1428 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Scction ( i) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 , ( 44 of 
1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Mrs. Santosh Duggal as Assistant 
Settlement Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such 
officers by or under the said Act with effect from the date she took charge of her 
office , 

[No. 8 / 133 / ARG / 81.] 


Sec . 3(ii)] 


THF GAZETIE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962/VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


1699 


$ . 0 . 1426 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Sec 
tion 3 of the Displaced Persons ( Cloims) Supplementary Act, 1954, the Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri Gulab L . Ajwani as Additional Settlement 
Commissioner for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to him by 
or under the said Act with effect from 1st July , 1961. 

This office Notification No. 11 (45 ) / CSC / AI- 61, dated 19th July 1961 is hereby 
cancelled 

[ No. 5 ( 10 ) / ARG -61.) 


New Delhi, the 3rd May 1962 
S . O . 1427 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Section ( 1 ) of Section 
6 of the Administration of Evacuee Property , 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) the Central 
Government hereby appoints for the State of Rajasthan , Shri T . N . Mathur , 
Managing Omcer in the Office of the Regional Settlement Commissioner , Jaipur 
as Assistant Custodian for the purpose of discharging the duties imposed on Cus 
todian by or under the said Act with effect from the date he took over charge 
of his otce. 

[No. 7 ( 3 ) / ARG -62 .] 


S . O . 1428 .- - In cxercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of Sub 
Section (2 ) of Section 16 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation ) 
Act . 1954 (44 of 1951) the Central Government hereby appoints for the State of 
Rajasthan , Shri T . N . Mathur, Managing Omcer in the Ofice of the Regional 
Settlement Commissioner, Jaipur , as Managing Omrer for the custody , manage 
ment and disposal of Compensation Pool with cllect from the date he took over 
charge of his office , 

[ No . 7 (3 ) / ARG -62 .) 
New Delhi, the 7th May 1962 
S . O . 1429 . — In cxercise of the powers conferred by Sub -Section ( i ) of Section 
of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehubilitation ) Act, 1954 , ( 44 of 
1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri B . R . Kher as Assistant 
Settlement Onicer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such 
oficers by or under the said act with effect from the date he took charge of his 
office . 

INO. 8 / 138 / ARG / 61. ] 


s . O 1430 . — In cxercise of the powers conferred by Sub -Section ( i ) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Conipensation & Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 . (44 of 
1954 ) the Central Government hereby appoints Shri V . S . Jha as Assistant Settle 
ment Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such officers 
by or under the said Act with effect from the date he took charge of his orc. 

[No . 10 ( 85 ) / ARG /01. 1 
KANWAR BAHADUR, 
Scttlement Commissioner ( A ) and 

Ex -Officio Dy. Sccy . 


(Department of Rehabilitation ) 
(Оfice of the Chief Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 1st May 1962 
$ . O . 1431. — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Şub - Section ( 2 ) of 
Section 34 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 
( 44 of 1954 ) , I hereby delegate to Shri P . N . Bhanot , Settlement Commissioner 
with effect from 1st May, 1962 the following powers of the Chief Settlement Com 
missioner : 

1. Power to hear appeals under Section 23 of the said Act . 
2 . Power to hear revisions under Section 24 of the said Act. 

[No. 12 (2 ) /ARG /62 -IV . ] 


1700 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


[Papi JI 


8 . 0 . 1432 . - In cxercise of the powers conferred on me by Section 5 of the 
Administration of Evacuee Property Act , 1950 (31 of 1970 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints Shri P . N . Bhanot, Settlement Commissioner as Deputy 
Custodian General of Evacuee Property with effect from the forenoon of 1st May , 
1962 until further orders, 

[No. 12 ( 2 ) / ARG / 62-VI.] 


S . O . 1438 . - In exercise of the powers conferred on me by sub - Section ( 3 ) of 
Section 55 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act ( 31 of 1950 ) . I S . W . 
Sylveshwarkar hereby delegate to Shri P . N . Bhanot, Deputy Custodian General 
of Evacuee Property , all powers vested in me under the said Act. 

[No. 12 ( 2 ) /ARG / 62 -VII. ] 
New Delhi, the 2nd May 1902 
8 . 0 . 1484 . - In exercise of the powers conferred on me by sub - section ( 2 ) 
of Section 10 of the Displaced Persons ( Claims) Supplementary Act , 1954 ( 12 of 
1964 ) , I have delegated to Shri Gulab L . Ajwani, Additional Settlement Com 
missioner with effect from the 1st July , 1961, the following powers of the Chief 
Settlement Commissioner : 
1 . Powers to call for the record of any case decided by the Settlement 

Officer and pass order in the case under proviso to sub - section ( 3 ) 

of Section 4 of the said Act. 
2 . Special powers of revision under Section 5 of the said Act in respect 

of cases decided under the Displaced Persons ( Claims) Act, 1950 

(44 of 1950 ) . 
This office Notification No. 11 (45) /CSC /AI- 61, dated 19th July 1961 is hereby 
cancelled , 

[No. 5 ( 10 ) / ARG - 61 .] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 5th May 1962 
S . O . 1435 . — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by sub -section ( 2 ) of 
Section 34 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation & Rehabilitation ) Act , 1954 
(44 of 1954 ) I , Ş . W . Shiveshwarkar, I. C . S ., Chief Settlement Commissioner , 
hereby delegate my powers under Rules 84 and 86 of the Displaced Persons 
(Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Rules , 1955 , to condone the delay in submission 
of applications for substitution uncler Section 9 of the Displaced Persons ( Com 
pensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 (44 of 1954 ) by successors -in - interest of 
deceased claimants or applicants for Rehabilitation Grant to the following Officers 
of the Settlement Organisation : 

1 . Shri I. L . Panjani Regional Settlement Commissioner , Jalpur . 
2 . Shri S . S . Bisen - Regional Settlement Commissioner , Lucknow . 
3 . Shri R . Dayal- - Regional Settlement Commissioner, Patna . 
4 . Shri J. S . Bajaj. Regional Settlement Commissioner , Bombay . 

[ No. 4 (4 ) / Comp. & Prop./ 62.] 
S . W . SITIVESHWARKAR , Chlef Settlement Commissioner . 

(Department of Rehabilitation ) 
(Offilce of the Chlef Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 3rd May 1962 
S . O . 1436 . - In exercign of the powers conferred by Sub - Section ( I ) of Section 
8 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (Act XXXI of 1950 ), the 
Central Government hereby appoints for the State of Rajasthan Shri H . S . 
Unadhyaya, Tehsildar in the office of the Regional Settlement Commissioner Jaipur 
with effect from 1st May , 1962 as Assistant Custodian for the purpose of discharging 
the duties imposed on the Custodian by or under the said Act. Shri H . S . 
Upadhyaya will exercise the powers only so long as he holds the post of Tehsildar 
in the office of the Regional Settlement Commissioner , Jaipur. 

[No. F . 7 / 11 /59 (II) - Pd .II ( L & R ). ] 


the Registonline for thep 


oorect Shriblica 


SFC . 8 ( ii ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKHA 22 . 1884 


1701 


S . O . 1437 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section 
( 2 ) of section 16 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act , 
1954 ( 44 of 1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri H . S . Upadhyaya , 
Tehsildar in the Ollire of the Regional Settleinent Commissioner , Jaipur with effect 
from 1st May, 1962 as Managing Officer for the purpose of performing the func 
tions assigned to the Managing Omcer by or under the said Act . Shri H . S . 
Upadhyaya will exercise the powers only so long as he holds the post of Tehsildar 
in the office of the Regional Settlement Commissioner Jaipur, 

[No, F . 7 / 11 / 59 ( II) - Pol. II ( L & R ). ] 

M . J. SRIVASTAVA , 
Settlement Commissioner & 

Ex - Oficio Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION & BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 4th May 1962 
S .O . 1438. -- In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 ( 1) of the 
Cinematograph Act, 1952 read with rule 4 of the Cinematograph (Censorship ) 
Rules, 1958 , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri S . s . Vasan as a mem 
ber of the Central Board of Film Censors with immediate effect. 

[ No. F . 11 / 14 / 59 .] 
B , S . DASARATHY , Dy. Sery . 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 2nd May 1962 
9 . 0 . 1439. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Kirkend Colliery and their workmen , 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DHANBAD 

REFERENCE No. 59 OF 1961. 


PARTIES : 


Employers in relation to the Kirkend Colllery . 


AND 


Their workmen . 
PRESENT : 

Shri Salim M . Merchant, B . A . LL .B ., Presiding Officer . 
APPEARANCES : 
Shri Lalit Burman , Secretary, Bihar Koyla Mazdoor Sabha, for the workmen . 
Shri S . Sanyal, Manager , Kirkend colliery , for the employers . 
STATE : Bihar. 

Industry : Coal. 


Dhanbad , dated the 17th April 1962 

AWARD 
The Government of India , Ministry of Labour and Employment, by Order 
No. 2 / 144 /61-LRII dated 29th July 1961, made in exercise of the piyers conferred 
by clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 47) , was pleased to refer the industrial dispute between the parties above 
named in respect of the subject matters stated in the following schedule to the 
said order, for adjudication to me. 
" Whether the management was justified in stopping Shri Muhammad Yasin 

from work with effect from 1st May 1961. If not, to what relief he 
is entitled ? " 


1702 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962/VAIŞAKHA 22 , 1884 


[Part II 


2 . After the parties had fled their written statements the dispute was taken 
up for hearing at Dhanbad and after being part heard , was adjourned to 16th 
April, 1962, to enable the union to take inspection of certain registers and records 
of the colliery called for by it. 

3 . At the hearing on 16th April, 1962, after the partics had made their 
submissions at some length , they negotiated for a settlement and later on field a 
joint application recording the terms of settlement and prayed that an award be 
made in terms thereof, A copy of the said joint application of the parties is 
annexed hereto and marked Annexure A and it shall form part of this award . As 
I am satisfied that , in the facts and circumstancos of the case , the settlement 
reached between the parties is fair and reasonable , I accept the same and make 
an award in terms thereof, 
4 . No order as to costs. 

( Sd.) SALIM M . MERCHANT, Presiding Officer. 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad . 

ANNEXURE A . 
BEFORE THE PRESIDING OFFICER , CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 

TRIBUNAL , DHANBAD , 

REFERENCE No. 59 OF 1961. 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to Kirkend Colliery 

AND 
their workmen , represented by Blhar Koyla Mazdoor Sabha 
This humble petition on behalf of the parties above named most respectfully 
submit: 
1 . That the parties have amicably settled the dispute on the folowing terms: 
( a ) That the management will pay a sum of Rs. 250 / - ( rupees two hundred 

Afty ) in full and final settlement to Shri Md. Yasin . 
( b ) That Shri Md. Yasin with have no other claim on recelpt of the above 

amount. 
( c ) That the payment will be made on 18th April , 1962, in the office of the 

Tribunal 
( d ) That Shri Md. Yasin will vacate the dhowroh within a week from the 

date of the payment. 
It is therefore humbly prayed that the matter may kindly be disposed of on 
the above terms and an award may be made accordingly . 

Dhanbad , dated the 16th April , 1962 . 
For the Employers : 

For the workmen : 
S . SANYAL , Manager Kirkend Colliery, 
Witness : ( C . K . MUKHERJEE ). 

LALIT BURMAN , Secretary , 
Bihar Koyla Mazdoor Sabha , 

(MD. YASIN ). 

Before me. 
(Sd .) SALIM M . MERCHANT, Presiding Officer , 

Dhanbad , 16 - 4 -62 . 

[No, 2 / 144 /61-LRII. ] 
New Delhi, the 3rd May 1962 
S . O . 1440 . In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the matter of an application under Section 
33A of the sald Act from Shri Nanhak Mallah , Bucketman , of Woyabad Ropeway, 
rio M / s . Indian Mine Workers Federation , Dhanbad , 


Sec. $(t )} 


THE GAZETTÉ OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 /VAÍŞAKHA 22 , 1884 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , 

DHANBAD 
APPLICATION No. 107 OF 1960 

( arising out of Reference No. 27 of 1960 ) 
Re: In the matter of a complaint under Section 33A of Industrial Disputes Act, 

1947 (XIV of 1947) . 
PARTIES : 
Nanhak Mallah , Bucketman , 

Loyabad Ropeway, Station A , 
c / o Indian Mine Workers Federation , 
P . O . Dhanbad , District Dhanbad , Bihar -- Complainant. 

Vs. 
1. Chief Mining Engincer, 

M / s . Bird & Co . ( P ) Ltd .. 

P . O . Sijua , District Dhanbad . 
2 . The Ropeway Engincer , 

Loyabad Ropeway , 
P .O . Bansjora , District Dhanbad - Opposite parties . 


PRESENT : 
Shri Salim M . Merchant, B . A ., LL . B ., Presiding Oficer . 
APPEARANCES ; 

Shri Lalit Burman - for the complainant . 
Shri S . S . Mukherjea , Advocate , with 
Shri J. L . Sinha , Group Personnel Officer — for the opposite parties, 


STATE : Bihar . 


INDUSTRY : Coal . 


Dhanbad , the 17th April 1962 


AWARD 
This is a complaint purporting to be under Section 33A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 against the complainant s alleged suspension from his service 
with effect from 7th November , 1960 . The complaint is filed as arising out of 
Reference No. 27 of 1960 , 

2 . After the usual notices were issued and the opposite parties had fled their 
written statements in reply , at the hearing of this complaint on 16th April 1962 
Shri Lallt Burman for the complainant stated that he did not want to prosecute 
this complaint and wished to withdraw the same as the complainant has been 
taken back in service and has been paid his due wages . The complaint shall 
therefore stand dismissed as withdrawan . No order as to costs . 


( Sd .) SALIM M . MERCHANT, 

Presiding Officer, 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 

Dhanbad . 


DHANBAD ; 
The 17th April, 1962. 


[ No . 8 / 32 / 62-LRII.) 


New Delhi, the 7th May 1962 
$ . 0 . 1441. - - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to Messrs. T . P , Sao, Owner of Ghatkuri and Bijoy Iron and Manga 
nese Mincs, Post Office Chaibasa, District Singhbhum and their workmen . 


1404 


THẾ GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


[Part II 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA . 

REFERENCE NO. 1 OF 1962 


PARTIES : 

Employers in relation to Messrs T . P . Sao , Owners of Chatkuri & Bijoy Iron 

& Manganese Mines 


AND 


Their workmen . 
PRESENT : 

Shri L . P . Dave - Presiding Officer, 
APPEARANCES : 

For the Employers - Shri S . C . Sen , Advocate Shri T , Tewari, a representative of 
the firm . 

For the workmen - Shri Patit Paban Pathak , an Officer of the All India Trade 
Union Congress. 
STATE : Bihar 

INDUSTRY : Iron & Manganese Mines . 


AWARD 
The Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment, by their 
order No, 23 / 6 / 61-LRII dated 21st March 1961, referred the Industrial dispute exist 
ing between the employers in relation to Mcssrs T . P . Şao, owner of Ghatkuri ana 
Bijoy Iron and Manganese Mines and their workmen in respect of the question 
whether the workers of the above mines were entitled to a profit sharing bonus for 
the year 1959 -60 and it so at what rates, was referred for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Dhanbad . By subsequent order No. 4 / 90 / 61 -LRII dated 13th Decem 
ber 1961, proceedings in relation to the above dispute were withdrawn from the 
Dhanbad Tribunal and transferred to this Tribunal for disposal according to law , 

2 . Both the workmen and the employers filed their written statements before the 
Dhanbad Tribunal, The workers contended that the Company is in existance in this 
Industry for more than fifteen years, that it is selling its Iron and manganese ore to 
the State Trading Corporation and to the Tara Iron & Steel Co ., that the wage con 
ditions existing in the company are very miserable; that the workers were getting 
Re, 1 / - per day for males and - / 14 } - annas for females and that these rates were 
Increased by two annas in December 1960 ; that no dearness allowance is paid to the 
workers ; that the company is making huge profits ; that the nett profit in respect of 
Iron ore would be over Rs. 8 / - per ton and in the case of manganese It would be 
still higher ; that looking to the proflts of the company the Union prays that three 
month s wages should be awarded to the workmen for the year 1959 - 60 as profit 
sharing bonus. 

3 . The employers contended that the various allegations made by the Union were 
not correct on material facts ; that the Union in their charter of demand had asked 
for one month s bonus for the year 1959 - 60 ; that it is not appreclated how and why 
It has increased its claim to three months; that the allegation that the nett profit in 
the case of iron ore exceeds Rs. 8 / - per ton is a pure surmise and guess work and 
is not true ; that the principles for payment of honus are now well settled by a 
series of decisions of the Supreme Court and according to them bonus would become 
payable only if there was a surp }us avallable out of the profit earned by the employer 
during that year , that the employers have worked out the available surplus accord 
ing to that formula and appended it as annexure A to their written statement and 
according to this not only was there no available surplus but there was a deficit 
and hence no bonus should be awarded to the workmen during this year. 

4 . The dispute in the present case relates to the profit sharing bonus for the year 
1959 -60 . The employers are the owners of Chatkuri and Bijoy Iron and Manganese 
Mines, They have other business like that of Excise also , but we are not concerned 
with that business in the present reference ; because the present dispute is between 
the above employers and their workmen in the above mines. The workmen claim 
a profit sharing bonus for the year 1959 -60 which claim is denied by the employers. 


5 . The employers have Aled several statements, most important of which is a 
statement prepared by a Chartered Accountant who has also prepared a statement 
of available surplus according to thc formula which was laid down hy the Labour 
Appellate Tribunal in the case of Mill Owners Association , Bombay V , Rastriya Mill 


SEC. $(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


1705 


Mazdoor Sangh , 1952 L . A . C . 433 which has been approved of by the Supreme Court 
in several cases , the most important of them being the case of Associated Cement 
Co . Ltd . v . their workmen ( 1959) ILLJ . 644 : The employers have also examined 
Shri Guha who is a Chaltered Accountant and who has prepared different state 
ments . The workmen have not led any evidence excepting producing a statement 
which according to them would show a sufficient available surplus for granting 
bonus . 

6 . According to the statements ( TS and Ti , produced by the employers, their 
gross profits for the year come to Rs. 91, 143.87 np . Out of this , they have deducted 
25 ,646 . 35 nP . for depreciation on assets (see Ti ) , They have also deducted a gum 
of Rs. 11, 354 . 54 np. as the proportionate Head Office expenses and then showed 
the balance of profits for the Mining section as Rs. 54 , 143 . 00 . Out of this nett 
proflt, they claim a deduction of Rs. 30 , 280 . 00 by way of interest on average 
capital at the rate of 6 per cent, Rs. 22 , 314 . 00 for income tax and Rs. 9, 000 . 00 as 
remuneration for the partner s service to the business and they , therefore , say 
that there is a deficit of Rs. 7 , 451 ( statement T2 ) . To put in a tabulated form , 
the employers statements can be summarised as under — 

Gross Profits : Rs . 91, 143 .87 np . 


Deductions : 


(1) Depreciation on aggets , . 
( ii ) Proportionate Heii ofice Exp . , 
(lii) Return on Capital @ 6 % . . . 
(iv) Income Tax , Surcharge , Sup er Tax . 
(v) Remuneration for Partner s service , 


. 


. 
, 


Rs. 25 ,646 .55 nP . 

» 11, 354 51 np . 
» 30, 280. 00 np . 
„ 22 ,314 00 np . 

9,000 00 np . 


Rs. 98 ,595 . 06 np . 
This shows no available surplus . 

7 . So far as workmen are concerned, the calculation of available surplus as made 
by them is as under ( see statement T4 ) . 

Profit : Rs. 91,143 .87 np . 
Deductions ; 

(1) Head office expense . . . . . Rs. 11,354 51 np . 
(ü ) Depreciation 

6 , 572 00 np. 
( iii ) Income Tax 

» 22 ,314 .00 np . 
(iv) Return on Capital @ 4 % . . . » 20,000 .00 np . 
Nett avallable surplus + Rs . 30, 903.36 np. 

8 . It will be seen from the above that there is no dispute between the parties 
about the amount of the gross profit. There is also no dispute about the deductions 
tor Head Office expenses which both the parties have taken as 11. 354 .51 nP . Simi 
larly there is no dispute regarding the amount to be deducted , for Income tax 
namely Rs, 22,314 / -. There is a dispute only in regard to three items. The first is 
regarding depreciation . According to the employers , they claim a deduction of 
Rs. 25,646 .55 np . for depreciation while the workmen urge that the deduction for 
depreciation should be Rs. 6 ,572 / -, The second dispute is regarding return on capital . 
The employers claim deduction of Rs. 30 ,280 / - at the rate of 6 % on the average 
capital employed in the year while the workmen say that the deduction on this 
account should be only Rs. 20 ,000 / - at the rate of 4 % on the capital employed . 
The last dispute is regarding the item of Rs. 9 ,000 / - claimed by the employers for 
remuneration in respect of services rendered by the partners which item is disputed 
by the workmen , 

9 . Before I proceed to discuss the above three items, I máy mention that the 
principles that should govern the grant of bonus to the workers were laid down for 
the Arst time by the Labour Appellate Tribunal in the well known case of Mill 


1706 


THẾ GAZËTTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHẢ 23, 1884 


PART JÍ 


Owners Association Bombay , 1952 - L . A . C ., 433 . The principles laid down 
above case by the Labour Appeilate Tribunal have been approved of by the Supreme 

in the 
Court in a number of cases, the most important of them being the case of Associated 
Cement Co . Ltd , Vs, their workmen ( 1959 ) ILLJ. 044 where the Labour Appellate 
Tribunal formula was very carefully examined by the Supreme Court and approved 
of. It was held that the above formula had worked satisfactorily and that it was 
enough to meet reasonably the claims of the industry and labour for fair - play and 
justice. According to the formula , several items have to be deducted from the gross 
profits to arrive at the available surplus and if there is available surplus, it is to 
be distributed between the labour, the industry and the shareholders . These items 
have to be worked out notionally on the oretical grounds. 

10 . From the amount of gross profits , there should be a first deduction for de 
preciation . Only the notional normal depreciation should be deducted . Initial de 
preciation and additional depreciation allowed for income tax purposes is not be 
be taken into consideration . The next item that has to be deducted from the gross 
profits is Income tax . In determining the income tax , the full statutory deprecia 
tion as allowed under the Income Tax law must be deducted from the gross profits 
and the tax calculated on the balance . The next charge on the gross profts is 
return on paid up capital and working capital. Ordinarily a return of 6 per cent 
on the paid up capital should be allowed ; but this can be suitably varied 
according to the circumstances of each case . The return on reserve used as 
working capital has to be fixed by the Tribunal at its discretion . The next and 
important item of deduction from the gross profits is the allowance for rehabilita 
tion including replacement and modernisation . The balance , if any , remaining 
after the above deductions have been made from the gross profits would represent 
the surplus available for distribution , Labour, the industry and the shareholders 
are entitled to claim a share therein . The intio of distribution between these 
claimants would depend on various factors, for example , the existing wages scales 
in the concern , necessity for setting apart à gratuity fund, financial position of the 
employer , rebate of income tax available to the employers on the amount of 
bonus etc . 

11. The formula for bonus is based on two considerations. The first is that labour 
19 entitled to claim a share in the trading profits of the industry because it hay 
partially contributed to the same and the second is that labour is entitled to claim 
that the gap between Its actual wages and the living wage should , within reason 
able limits, be filled up . 

12. Applying the above principles to the facts of the present case , it may be 
noted as mentioned above that there is no dispute about the gross proflts , nor lg 
there any dispute about the amount to be deducted for Head Omice expenses . There 
is also no dispute about the deduction in respect of income tax . The dispute is only 
regarding depreciation , return on capital and remuneration to partners . It may be 
noted at this stage that no amount is claimed to be deducted on the ground of 
rehabilitation , replaccments or modernisation , 

13 . The Arst and the most important item in dispute is regarding depreciation , 
As I mentioned above , the employers claim a deduction of Rs. 25 ,646 .56 np . under 
this head . They have worked out this amount in a chart which is marked T - 3 . 
According to the statement T - 4 of the workmen , they dispute items 12 to 16 of the 
chart T - 3 . They dispute items 12 to 14 on the ground that they would not be 
chargeable in this year but would be chargeable in the next year and they dispute 
Items 15 and 16 on the ground that they are not heads of depreciation . 

14. Now , so far as items 15 and 16 are concerned , they are amounts for com 
mission and stamp expenses in respect of purchase of new trucks and the interest 
on the amount spent in purchasing these trucks. According to the workmen , these 
Items cannot be said to be items of depreciation . Even if they are not items of 
depreciation and are not allowable as such , they would have to be allowed as work 
ing expenses . It would thus not make any difference for practical purposes. I 
would , therefore, grant the deduction claimed by the employers In respect of these 
two items. 

15 . Coming to Items 12 to 14, they are items of depreciation claimed in respect 
of two Compressors , four Welding machines and flve new trucks which were pur 
chased during the year 1959 - 60 . In the case of the compressors and welding ma 
chines , depreciation is claimed for four months while in the case of the five new 
trucks, depreciation is claimed for six months. Shri Guha in his evidence has 
stated that these five new trucks were purchased on 25th February 1960 . If that 
was so , I cannot understand how depreciation can be claimed or allowed in respect 
of the same for a period of six months. I was told that under the Income tax law 
they can claim depreciation to this extent. No authority was shown to me in 


Sec. $ (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1707 


support of this proposal, but assuming that under the Income tax Tāw , depreciation 
can be allowed for these new trucks for a period of six months, I do not think that 
the same can be allowed when working out the available suplus according to the 
Labour Appellate Tribunal formula . As held by the Supreme Court, the amount of 
depreciation to be deducted is a noțional depreciation . The initial depreciation or 
additional depreciation allowed for Income tax purposes is not to be taken into 
consideration . In the case of Associated Cement Co., Ltd , the statutory doprecia 
tion allowed under Income Tax law was 165 ,49 lakhs, but the notional normal 
depreciation allowed for the purpose of Anding avallable surplus to consider the 
grant of bonus was 100 . 22 lakhs. In other words, though under the Income Tax 
law , the employers may be entitled to a larger depreciation , they cannot claim the 
same in making the deduction for arriving at the available surplus; because only 
notional depreciation has to be allowed . As the trucks were purchased towards the 
end of February , they worked for hardly 11 months during the year . I think that 
the normal depreciation that can be allowed for the purpose of working out the 
bonus formula should be on the basis of two month s depreciation . In other words , 
in respect of the amount of ks, 13 , 952. 50 nP . claimed under Item 14 , I think that 
the notional depreciation that can be allowed under this head would be 
Rs. 4 ,650 . 83 nP . 

16 . Regarding compressors and welding machines , there is no evidence as to 
when they were purchased and in the circumstances , I would allow the deprecia 
tion as claimed by the employers, Calculating accordingly , the deduction that can 
be allowed under the head of depreciation would be Rs. 10 , 344, 88 OP , ( and not 
Rs. 25 ,646. 55 nP .) 

17 . The next item in dispute is the item about return on paid up capital. 
The employers have claimed a sum of Rs. 30, 280 / - under this head stating that the 
Average capital during the year was Rs. 5 , 04 , 673 / -. The workm - n urge that only 
Rs. 20 , 000 / - should be allowed on this head , at 4 per cent. on the capital. 

18 . As I mentioned earlier , ordinarily 6 per cent is allowed as return on capital. 
No doubt this can be suitably varicd according to the circumstances of each case. 
But no special circumstance are alleged or proved in the present case and I see no 
reason why a return of less than 6 per cent should be allowed on capital. It may 
be noted that the amount claimed is a return on capital and not a return on reserve 
or other funds, 

19. An attempt was made during the cross examination of Shri Guha to show 
that the working capital was not 5 , 00 , 000 and odd . No doubt in the schedule of 
computation of capital, Shri Guha has arrived at the capital hy taking the average 
of the capital on the first day of the year and the capital on the last day çf the 
year ; but in his deposition , he has also stated that he did verify as to what was 
the capital used in the middle of the year and he found that gcnerally it was more 
than the one at the beginning and at the end . It may also be noted that according 
to the statement T4 of the Union they have agreed to a deduction of 20, 000 / - by 
way of the return on the capital at 4 per cent. On this basis , the capital would work 
out at Rs. 5 ,00 , 000 / -. In other words, there is not much difference in the amount 
of capital as urged by the employers in their statement and as aclmitted by the 
Union in theirs. The only dispute was regarding the rate of return and I think 
that the employers are entitled to a return of 6 per cent. I would , therefore, up 
hold the employers contention on this point. 

20 . The last item disputed by the workmen is an amount of Rs. 9000 / - which 
is claimed by the employers as remuneration for services of the partners rendered 
to the business . No doubt if an employer has actually looked after the business, 
provision for reasonablc remuneration for such employer would have to be niade 
as a prior charge to be deducted from the profits of the year for determining the 
available surplus. In this connection , reliance was placed on behalf of the employ 
ers on the case of Kodancri Estate and its workmen 1960 - I L ,LJ, 273 and the case 
of Kapoor & Co . and their workmen 1960 - I L . L . J . 510 . In the first case , a member 
of a joint Hindu family who owned the business was actually looking after the 
business and was devoting his full time and energy for the said tusiness. The 
Supreme Court held that provision for reasonable remuneration must be made for 
him . In the latter case, the Proprietor was working as Manager and his salary 
was regularly debited in the account books. The Supreme Court held that this 
item could not be challenged for the amount would have to be spent if any other 
person had been employed as a Manager , 

21. In the present case , however , there is no evidence to show as to whether all 
the three partners or any of them are looking after the working of this business 


1708 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


[Part I 


and as to what time they spend after it. None of the partners has gone in the 
witness box nor has any one else stated anything about it . The only evidence in 
the case is the evidence of Chartered Accountant Shri Guha, who can obviously 
have no personal knowledge as to whether the partners are looking after the busi 
ness or not , nor can he have any personal knowledge as to what time they spend 
therein . He has admitted however that the partners are also looking after the 
other business of the Arm , 

22 . As against this , the workmen have also led no evidence and they have & 180 
not stated as to whether the partners do any work or not . All that the workmen 
have said in their statement T4 is that partners services can not be allowed in 
preference to the claim of bonus for the workmen . Indirectly , therefore , they have 
admitted that the partners must be doing some work for this business also . 

23. In view of this unsatisfactory state of evidence and in view of the fact that 
It is not shown as to what work the partners are actually doing and for how 
much period , I would allow half the amount claimed by the employers under 
this head i.e . I would allow Rs. 4 ,500 / - under this head , 

24 . On the above basis, let us now make the relevant calculations. The gross 
profit is Rs. 91, 143 . 87 nP , Out of this , the following items will have to be deduc 
ed : 
(1) Depreciation . 

Rg. 16 , 344 . 88 np . 


( II) Head office expenses 
( il ) Income Tax . . 
(iv ) Return on Capital . 
(V ) Remuneration to partners 


11,354 : 51 P . 
22 ,314 . 00 OP . 

30 , 280 . 00 OP . 
4 , 500 .00 np . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


„ 


Total : Rs. 84,793 39 nP . 
Deducting this from the gross profit of Rs . 91, 143 -87 n .P ., the available surplus 
would work out at Rs. 1 , 350 / - . 


25 . This brings me to the last question as to how this surplus should be distrl 
buted or as to what amount should be awarded to the labour by way of bonus . 
One of the important things to be considered in this connection is as to what the 
wages of the workmen are . It was admitted before me both on behalf of the 
workmen as well as on bchalf of the employers that the wages of the workmen 
varied from Re, 1 per day to Rs. 1 / 6 / - per day. Taking the maximum wage of 
Rs. 1 / 6 / - per day, a workman would earn Rs . 35 . 75 np . per month for 26 working 
days. Admittedly , no dearness allowance is paid to any workman , but grains are 
supplied at concession rates. I am told that the grains so supplied are 16 seers per 
head per month and they are supplied at the rate of 4 seers a rupee as against the 
market price of 13 seers a rupee . Even after taking this concession into account, 
It would be clear that the workmen get very low wages and that their wages are 
much less than living wage . 


26 . It was also conceded before me by both sides that if the workmen were 
awarded a bonus equal to one month s wages , the employer would be required to 
pay about Rs. 6 .000 / - , Looking to the fact that total available surplus is Rs. 6 , 350 / 
and looking to the fact that the employers would get something by way of rebate 
In Income tax for the amount paid as bonus and looking further to the fact that 
the workmen are getting very low wages, I would award them i bonus equal 10 
20 ( twenty ) days wages which I believe would require payoient of about 
Rs. 4 , 000 / 


27 In the result , I hold that the workers are entitled to a profit sharing bonus 
equal to 20 (twenty ) days wages for the year 1959 -60 and I pass my award ar 
cordingly . 

L . P . DAVE , Presiding Officer. 
Dated. Calcutta , The 25th April, 1962 . 

[No. 29 /6 / 61 -LRII.) 


Sec, 3 (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1709 


ORDERS 


New Delhi, the 2nd May 1962 
S . O . 1442 . — Whereas , the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the cmployers in relation to the $ italdasji Selected Colliery 
and their workmen in respect of the matter specified in the Schedule hereto an 
nexed ; 

And , whereas, the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal, with 
Shri Hemanta Kumar Chaudhury as the Presiding Officer with headquarters at 
Patna , and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Industrial Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the management was justified in not re -employing the three retrench 
ed workmen , Sarvashri Naresh Kurni, Dipan Keot and Gour Chandra Mazumdar, 
water supplier , pump khalasi and munshi respectively ? If not, to what relief are 
they entitled and from what date ? 

[No. 2 / 241/ 61-LRII . ) 
New Delhi, the 3rd May 1962 
8 .0 . 1443,- - Whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the East Bastacolla Colllery 
and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed ; 

And , whereas. the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act . 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal, with 
Shri Hemanta Kumar Chaudhury as the Presiding Omrer, with headguarters at 
Patna , and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Industrial Tribunal. 


SCHEDULE 
Whether the dismissal of Sri Balal Kewat by the management of East Bastacolla 
Colliery was justified ? If not, to what relief is he entitled ? 

[No. 2 / 34 / 82-LRII.] 


S . O . 1444 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central 
Government hereby makes the following amendment in the Order of the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment No. $ . O . 1188 , dated 
the 17th May, 1961, namely : - - 
In the Schedule to the said Order , after the word " paragraph ” and before 

the figure and letter " 164 ( b ) " , the figure and words " 163 and para 
graph " shall be inserted . 

[No. 10 ( 39 ) / 60 -LRIV .] 
New Delhi, the 7th May 1962 
S . O . 1445 . — Whercas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the cmployers in relation to the Sitasongi mine of Seth 
Gopikisan Agarwal and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, ( 14 of 1947) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the In 
dustrial Tribunal, Bombay , constituted under section 7 - A , of the said Act . 


1710 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 [PART II 
- - - - - -- - - - 

= - - - 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the management of Sitasongi Mine of R . S . Seth Gopikisan Agar 

wal was justifled in reducing the piece rates per frame of 10 Cit., of 
chilly boulder ore from Rs, 16 to Rs. 12 and to Rs. 14 in week ending 
1st February , 1962 , and 8th February , 1962 , respectively in respect of 
the workmen employed in Section No. 1 , of the said mine. If not 
what relief should be given to thc workmen concerned and from 
what date ? 

[No, 23 /8 /62-LRII.) 


New Delhi, the 8th May 1962 
$ .O . 1446 . - Whereas , the cmployers in relation to the Chirimiri Colliery and 
their workmen represented by the Chhattisgarh Colliery Workers Federation , 
Post Office Chirimiri, District Surguja (Madhya Pradesh ) have jointly applied 
to to Central Government for reference to a Tribunal of an industrial dispute 
in respect of the matters set forth in the said application and reproduced in the 
Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas, the Central Government is satisfied that the said Chhattisgarh 
Collicry . Workers Federation represents a majority of the workmen ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) . the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal. with 
Shri Ganesh Prasad Bhutt as the Presiding Omcer , with headquarters at Indore 
City and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Industrial Tribunal. 

THE SCHEDULE 
FORM ‘ A ’ 

( Rule 3 ) 
Form of application for the reference of an industrial dispute to a Tribunal 

under Section 10 ( 2 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 . 
Whereas an industrial dispute exists between the Management of Chirimiri 
Colliery , Amrit Bhavan , Residency Road , Nagpur, and the Workmen of Chirimiri 
Colliery , P . O . Chirimiri, S . E , Rly ., District Surguja , Madhya Pradesh , represented 
by the Chhattisgarh Colllery Workers Federation . P . O . Chirimiri, and it is 
expedient that the dispute specified in the enclosed statement which is connected 
or relevant to the dispute should be referred for adjudication by a Tribunal an 
application is hereby made under section 10 ( 2 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947, that the said dispute should be referred to a Tribunal 

A statement giving the particulars required under rule 3 of the Industrial 
Disputes ( Central ) Rules , 1957, is attached . 


Dated : 9th March 1962 
For the Management 
Sd / 
General Manager 
Chirimiri Colliery Company, 
" Amrit Bhavan" , Residency Rd., 
Post Box 83, Nagpur -1 . 


For the Workmen 
Sd / 

Sd / 
Vice President 

Secretary 
Chhattisgarh Colllery Workers 

Federation , P . O . Chirimiri, 
Dist. Surguja , Madhya Pradesh , 


To 


The Secretary , 
to the Government of India , 
Ministry of Labour and Employment, 
New Delhi. 


Statement required under rule 3 of the Industrial Disputes ( Central ) Rules 
1957 to accompany tha form of application prescribed under sub - section ( 2 ) of 
Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 


Sec. $ (11 )1 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1711 


(a ) Parties to the dispute including the name and address of the establish 

ment or undertaking involved , 
Management of Chirimiri Colliery known as CHIRIMIRI COLLIERY 
COMPANY, Amrit Bhavan , Residency Road , Nagpur - 1. 

AND 
Workmen of Chirimiri Collicry as represented by CHHATTISGARH 

COLLIERY WORKERS FEDERATIUN , P . O . Chirimiri, Distt. Surguja , 

Madhya Pradesh . 
(b ) Specific matter in dispute 
“ Whether the workmen of Chirimiri Colliery are entitled to wages for 

the strike period from 23rd February 1962 to 4th March 1962. 
( c ) Total number of workmen employed in the undertaking affected — 1, 900 . 
( d ) Estimated number of workmen affected or likely to be affected by the 

dispute — 1, 100 . 
( e ) Efforts made by the parties themselves to adjust the dispute , 


There were mutual discussions for several days betwcen the Chhattisgarh 

Colliery Workers Federation and the Management of Chirimiri 
Colliery Company which did not result in resolving the dispute . As 
the strike continued the management thought it best to request tele 
graphically the Regional Labour Commissioner ( C ) , Jabalpur, to 
conciliate in the matter . Conciliation proceedings were , there ore, 
started and an agreement on all the points was arrived at except 
that the Chhattisgarh Collicry Workers Federation claimed wages 101 
the workers during the period of strike 1. e . 23rd Februury to 4th 
March 1962 . As no agreement could be arrived at on this point, the 
partics agreed to refer the dispute for adjudication . 

[No. 8 / 38 / 02 -LRII. ] 
S . O . 1447 . Whcreas , the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to East Bastacolla Colliery and 
their workmen in respect of the matter specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in cxercise of the powers conferred by scction 7A and clausc 
( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal, with 
Shri Hemanta Kumar Chaudhury as the Presiding Officer with headquarters at 
Patna, and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Industrial Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 


Whether the transfer of Shri Biru Sen to Upper Kendra Colliery is justifica ? 
If not, to what relief is he entitled ? 

[ No . 2 /41 /62- LRII.] 
A . L . HANDA , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 3rd May 1962 
S.O . 1448. - Whereas , in the opinion of the Central Government:~ 
( 1 ) the rules of the provident fund of M / s . Naffar Chandra Jute Mills 

Ltd ., Kankinarah , 24 , Parganas and M / s . Premier Stores Supplying 
Company Ltd ., 6 / 1 , Dilarjung Road , Calcutta - 2 (hereinafter refer 
red to as the said cstablishments ) , with respect to the rates of con 
tribution are not less favourable to the employees therein than 
those specified in section 6 of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 
1952 ( 19 of 1952) ; and 


( 2 ) the employees in the said establishments are also in enjoyment of 

other provident fund benefits which on the whole are not less 
favourable to the employees than the benefits provided under the 
Employees Provident Funds Scheme, 1952 (hereinafter referred to 
as the said Scheme ) in relation to the employees in any other 
establishment of a similar character ; 


1712 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


( PART II 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers _ conferred by clause ( a ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) oř section 17 of the Employees Provident Funds Act , 1932 ( 1y of 
1962 ) , the Central Government, hereby, exempt the said establishments with 
effect from the 1st November 1952 and the 1st February , 1968 respectively from 
the operation of all the provisions of the said Scheme, subject to the conditions 
specined in Schedule hercto annexed , which are in addition to the conditions 
mentioned in the Explanation to sub - section ( 1 ) of the said section 17 . 

SCHEDULE 

Conditions of exemption 
Every establishments shall have a provident fund scheme in force the rules 
of which with respect to the rates of contribution shall not be less favourable 
than those specified in section 6 of the Act and the employees shall also be in 
enjoyment of other provident fund benefits which on the whole shall not be 
less favourable to the employees than the bencfits provided under the Act or 
any Scheme in relation to the employees in any other establishment of a similar 
character and these rules shall be followed in all respects . 

2 . The employer in relation to each establishment (hereinafter referred to 
As the employer ) shall within three months of the date of publication of this 
notification , amend the constitution of the Provident Fund maintained in respect 
of the establishment in regard to the following matters, namely : 

( a ) the Provident Fund shall rest in a Board of Trustees and there 

shall be a valid instrument in writing , which adequately safeguards 
the interests of the employees and such instrument shall be duly 

registered under section 5 of the Indian Trusts Act , 1882 ( 2 of 1882 ) ; 
( b ) the Board of Trustees shall consist of an equal number of represen 

tatives of the employees and the employer and all questions before 

the Board shall be decided by a majority of votes ; 
( c ) the employer shall nominate one of his representatives on the Board 

as the Chairman who may exercise a casting vote if so provided 
under the rules of the establishment. Where a casting vote is 
exercised or where no casting vote is cxercised but the opinion of 
the representatives is equally divided , the matter shall be referred 
to the Regional Provident Fund Commissioner or the State Provident 
Fund Commissioner appointed under the said Scheme (hereinafter 
referred to as Regional / State Commissioner ) within whose jurisdic 
tion the factory to which the matter relates is situated and whose 

decision in the matter shall be final. 
3 . The Provident Fund rules of any establishment shall not be amended 
except with the previous approval of the Regional / State Commissioner. Where 
any amendment affects the interests of the employees , before giving his approyal, 
the Regional/ State Commissioner shall give a reasonable opportunity to the 
employees to explain their point of view . 


4 . ( a ) The employer shall maintain accounts of the Provident Fund in such 
manner and submit such returns to the Regional / State Commissioiner as the 
Central Provident Fund Commissioner may, from time to time direct . 


( b ) The employer shall furnish to the Regional / State Commissioner such 
accounts relating to the Provident Fund of the establishment as the Central 
Provident Fund Commissioner may prescribe from time to time. He shall also 
furnish an annual statement of account or a Pass Book , in such form as may 
be approyed , to each subscriber who , but for the exemption , would have been 
member of the Fund established under the Employees Provident Fund Scheme, 
1952 


( c ) The employer shall make all investment of accumulations accruing after 
the date of exemption in securities of the Central Government. The reinvest 
ment or conversion of securities on maturity shall also be in the securities of 
the Central Government. The employer shall formulate a procedure for prompt 
Investment of provident fund moneys and shall get it approved from the con 
cerned Regional/ State Commissioner . 


5 . The employer shall afford such facilities for inspection of the accounts 
of the Provident Fund as the Central Provident Fund Commissioner may from 
time to time specify . 


SEC. $ (11) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1884 


1913 


6 . All expenses involved in the administration of the Provident Fund Scheme 
including the maintenance of accounts , submission ur accounts and returns, lr uns 
fer of accumulations and payinent of inspection charges shall be borne by the 
employer . 

7 . The cmployer shall display on the notice board of his establishment in 
English , a copy of the approved rules and the translation of salienic points of the 
rulos in the language or the majority of workers respectively . 

8 . The employer shall within 3 months of the date of publication of this 
notification transfer to the Board of Trustees the accumulations standing to the 
credit of thc cmployees who but for the exemption would have been inembers 
of the Statutory Fund . 

9 . When the Fund is wound up or cxcmption of the establishment is cancel 
lod , accumulations standing to the credit of the employees who, but for the 
oxcmption , would have been members of the Statutory lund shall be transfer 
red to that Fund as soon as possible and , in any case not later than 30 days 
in the case of securities and not later than 10 days in the case of cash ji hand 
or bank , together with a statement or statements as may be required by the 
Regional / State Commissioner or Commissioners concernea. 

10 . The employer shall accept the past provident fund accumulations of an 
employee who is already a member of the Employees Provident Fund or an 
exempted lund and who obtains cmployment in his establishment. Such an 
employee shall immediately be admitted as a member ol the establishments 
Provident Fund . His accumulations which shall be transferred within 3 months 
of his joining the establishment shall be credited to his account. 

11. The employer shall provide for nomination in his provident fund rules 
in accordance with the provisions contained in paragraph G1 of the Employces 
Provident Funds Scheme, 1952, 

12 . The amount of contributions shall be calculated to the nearest quarter of 
a rupee ; thut is, 12 - 5 naye paise or more shall be counted as the next lugher 
quarter of a rupee and Tractions of a rupee less than 12 . 5 naye paisc shanī bc 
ignored . The amounts of inspection charges and damages shall be calculated to 
the nearest 5 naye paisc ; that is , 2 . 5 naye paise or more shall be counted as 
5 naye paise und any amount less than 2 . 5 naye paise shall be ignored . 

13 . On all repayable loans granted by establishments interest shall be charged 
at the rate of 4 ) per cent or 1 per cent above the rate allowed on the balance 
to the credit of the members whichever is higher . 

14 . The employer shall pay to the Regional / State Commissioner inspection 
charges payable , failing which damages shall be paid at a rate fixed by the 
Central Government from time to time. 

15 . Exemption granted by this notification is liable to be withdrawn by the 
Central Provident Fund Commissioner for breach of any of the aforesaid con 
ditions or for any other suflicient cause which may be considered appropriate . 

[No. 9 ( 9) 61- PF . II .] 
P . D . GAIHA , Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 4th May 1962 
S . O . 1449, - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Madras, in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Bank of Madura Limited and their workmen . 

BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , MADRAS . 
Thursday , the twelfth day of April , One thousand nine hundred and sirtu 
two (22nd day of Chaitru , 1884 Saka ) : 

PRESENT 

Sri K . Ramaswami Goundar, B . A ., M .L . 

INDUSTRIAL DISPUTE No. 8 OF 1962, 
On the matter of dispute between the wurkmen and the management of 

Bank of Madura Limited , Madurai ) . 


1714 


THE GAZETT 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKHÀ 23, 1884 


( Pari 11 


BETWEEN ; 

The General Secretary , 
Bank of Madura Employees Union , 
Malabar House , 
Railway Street Road , 
Coimbatore . 


AND 
The Secretary , 
Bank of Madura Limited , 
Nos. 82 -83, East Avanimoola Strcet , 

P . E . No. 76 , Madurai. 
REFERENCE : 
Order No . 51 / 2 / 62 -LR IV , dated 12th March , 1962 , Ministry of Labour and 

Employment, Government on India , New Deihi. 
ISSUES: 
" ( 1 ) Whether the Bank of Madura Limited was justified in placing Sarva 

shri A . R . Sambandam and S . Venkataraman under Suspension ? if 
so , was the suic company under any obligation to pay any subsis 
tence or other allowance or wages to the aioresaid workmen in res 

pect of the period 01 the suspension ! 
( 2 ) Whether the subsequent termination of the services of the aforesaid 

workmen was justitied ? 
( 3 ) What relief, if any, are thc workmen entitled to ?” 
This dispute coming on for hearing on Tuesday and Wednesday the 10th and 
11th days of April, 1962, and on this day , upon per using the reference , viaim and 
counter siatements and all other papers material to this dispute unu upon ticaring 
Sri P . J , Scetharaman , Advocate 101 the Union and Sri G . Swaminatha lycr, Law 
Othcer for the management, the Tribunal passed the fullowing . 


AWARD 


This reference relates to two of the employees of the Bank of Madura Limited , 
A . R . Sambandam and S . Venkatraman , whose seryices have been terminated on 
charges of misconduct. The Bank has got its head oflice at Madurai with bran 
ches in a number of places, such as Coinbatore, Cochin , Alleppey etc . The union 
which represents these two workers has filed a claim statement setting out the 
circumstance in which the action was taken against them and contending ihat it 
was an act of victimisation on the part of the management as they happen to be 
office - bearers of the Bank Employees Union , and that the ternunation of their 
services was illegal and unjustified , and praying that they should be reinstated 
with full back wages and continuity of service. The buk has filed a counter 
statement maintaining that the action taken against them was justified in the 
circumstances and that the decision taken after a domestic enquiry cannot be 
questioned in this reference as it was a full and fair enquiry made after giving 
the employees cvery opportunity for defending themselves against the charges . 


2 . We may first consider the charges against the first of them , namely A . R . 
Sambandam . In August, 1961, he was v orking in the Coinbatorc branch as 
cashier , when he was transferred as cashier to the Cochin bronch , IIc according 
ly joined the Cochin branch on the 21st August, 1961. On 4th September , 1961, 
a Memo of charge Ex . W - 2 , was served upon him to show cause why disciplinary 
action by way of dismissal should not be taken against him , and the charge was 
that he has been soliciting and accepting gilts from constituents of the Bank . On 
28th September , 1961, the Bank issued an additional Memo Ex . W - 2 ( a ) giving 
particulars of the persons from whom the gift was received , as well as the 
amounts received . It will be seen from that Memo that he is alleged to have 
received gilts from five constituents of the Bank , all belonging to Dharapuram in 
Coimbatore District, of small amounts such as Rs. 2 , 3 or 5 . It also mentions four 
other persons of the same place from whom Sambandam is alleged to have 
solicited gifts . Pending enquiry on those charges . Sambandam was placed 
under suspension by the order Ex . W - 3 , dated 11th September, 1961. The con 
ciliation Officer interfered in the matter but without success . Subsequently , on 
25th September , 1961, Sambundum was served with a mnemo Ex . W - 5 , containing 
additional three heads of charges: 


Sec. 3 (ii ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKIIA 22 . 1884 


1715 


( 1 ) The first was that he applied for casual leave and permission from 23rd 
to 27th August and landed over the Icave letter and the safe - keys to the Officer 
in - charge at his residence , when the officer told him that he was going out of 
the station on 24th August and thercfore could not grant him casual loave ; but 
the keys were handed over to the OMcer and the leave was availded of on loss of 
pay ; as Cashier in joint custody of the Bank s safe -kcys, Sambandam had com 
mitted a grave breach of discipline by absenting himself from Cochin without 
sanction and handing over the keys to the ofcer , who was holding the other joint 
keys and hence acted in an irresponsiblc munner and against the interest and 
safety of the Banks cash and securities , 

( 2 ) The sccond charge was that Sambandam applied for one - day leave on 
2nd September, 1961, on the ground that he had to attend a function in Virechilai ; 
he did not go there on that date, but went to Coimbatore ; that is to say , he 
applied for leave on a false ground. ( 3 ) The third was that Sambandam appli 
ed on 31st July , 1961, for privilege leave for 12 days from 5th August, 1961, for 
eye - testing and eye - treatment, and after obtaining sanction , spent the time in 
going about Dharapuram Salem , Madras and other places , that is to say , he 
made a false statement for obtaining leave . 

3 . There was an enquiry on those four charges , and the enquiry officer found 
him guilty on all the charges, and accepting that finding thc management passed 
the Order Ex . W - 7 , dated 26th December , 1961, terminating his services with 
immediate effect . 

4 . It is now well established that as against the findings the domestic enquiry 
this tribunal cannot sit in jur!: ment as a court of appeal, and the limits of its in 
terference are defined by the Supreme Court in the Indian Iron and Steel Co., 
Ltd ., case , ( 1958 S . C . R . 867 ) , in which it is laid down that such interference can 
only be on the following grounds : 
" . . . . In cases of dismissal on misconduct, the Tribunal does not , however , 

art as Court of appeal and substitute its own judgement for that of 
the management. It will interfere ( i ) when there is want of good 
faith , ( ii ) when there is victimisation or unfair labour practice , ( iii) 
when the management has been guilty of a basic error or violation of 
a princlple of natural justice, and ( iv ) when on the materials the 

finding is completely baseless or preversc " . 
5 . We have therefore to consider , in the light of thosc principles , whether any 
such ground exists in this case for interference. As stated above, the first charge 
was that Sambandam has been soliciting and accepting gifts from the consti 
tuents of the Bank , which is against discipline. The Bank has framed Staff 
Regulations and Rulcs of Service, marked as Ex M - 3 . Article 19 of those regu 
lations provides that an employee shall not solicit or accept any gift from a con 
stituent of the Bank or from a subordinate employee. Two of the constituents 
of the Bank mentioned in Ex . W - 2 ( a ) were examined . It may be mentioned that 
Sambandam , as the Vice -president of the Bank Emplovecs Union , has been col 
lecting donations 10 augment the funds of the union . The evidence of one of the 
constitucnts was that Sambandam asked him a donation of Rs. 5 for the union , 
And he paid it and obtained a receipt. The nvidence of the other constituent was 
that Sambandam asknd him donation for the union . It is therefore clear that 
the donation which Sambandom asked for and received from the constituents of 
the bank were all for the union and not for himself . This fact is admitted by 
Sambandam himself. The Enquiry Otror held that even acceptance of any gift 
for the union is prohibited by article 19 of the Staff Regulations and therefore he 
is guilty of serious misconduct. It must be stated that Sambandam did not solicit 
or collect donations for the union during working hours or in the bank premises. 
That he did at Dharanuram and not even at Coimbatore where he was cmployed . 
But the rontention is that the acceptance of any gift from constituents of the 
Bank even for the Union ju drohibited by that article . Ordinarily , a gift implies 
that it benefits the person who arrepts it . There may be good reasons for pro 
hibiting any employee from securing any benefit to himself from any constituent 
to whom by reason of such gift the employee would be induced to show some 
special favour. There is no such compelling reason to extend this prohibition 
even to cases where donations are collected for public or charitable purposes or 
other deserving causes . If the intention of the regulation was to prohibit even 
such donations , the relnvant article had to be drafted in clear language so as to 
leave no room for any doubt. On the absence of such clear languapr . there is n ? 
Tusuncation to give an extended meaning to the word gift in that article and 
And this employee guilty herange out of office hours and from constituents in 


1716 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


[Part II 


other places, he collected small donations for the union . If there is any ambigui 
ty or doubt in regard to the scope of that article , it must go to the benefit of the 
employee who is in the position of an accused . In my view , therefore, Sambandam 
was not guilty of the breach of the regulation by reason of his collecting small 
donations from the bank s constituents in other places for the purpose of the 
union , 


6 . As regards the second charge , namely , that he absented himself from 
Cochin from the 23rd to 27th August, without sanction , handing over the joint 
keys to the officer who was holding the other set of kcys and therefore acted in 
an irresponsible manner . At that time Sambandam was working in the Cochin 
Branch of which one Murugappan was the Officer - in - charge. He was the officer 
competent to grant leave to the Cashier . And so , Sambandam presented to him 
a leave application on 23rd August, 1961. The leave application bcars an endorse 
ment of the Omcer - in - charge to the effect that the leave was sanctioned on loss 
of pay . It also makes a record of the fact that the Cashier s safe - keys were 
handed over to the Agent. It is therefore mcaningless to say that the Cashier 
left the station without sanction . But, it was urged that Sambandam should not 
have, under any circumstances , handed over the safe keys to the Officer - in - charge 
who was already holding the other set of keys and thereby placed the cash and 
the securities of the Bank in jcopardy. Sri Swamintha Iyer who appeared for 
th management was not able to draw my attention to any of thc regulations of 
the Bank in regard to the handing over the keys that under no circumstances the 
( 7zhier could hand over the keys to the officer - in - charge who is already holding 
th : other set of keys. It so happened that in the present case , the other two 
clcks who could receive the keys from the cashier were not available . It was 
the duty of the Omccr - in - charge to give directions as to the custody of the keys. 
He gave no such directions, but received the keys himself. I fail to see why 
Sambandam should be punished for what the Officer- in - charge did or omitted to 
do . He should have refused the leave and compelled Sambancam to stay on or 
having granted the lcave he should have given appropriate directions as to what 
Sambandam should do with the keys . The direction he gave was to receive the 
keys himself, It was not the contention of the management that the Cashier 
could have taken the keys himself when he left the station on Icave. He had to 
hand over the keys before he left. The officer - in - charge did not direct the 
cashier to hand over the keys to somebody else. There is no rule or regulation 
brought to my notice that even in such circumstances the cashier should not 
have handed over the keys to the Officer . It was pointed out by the managc 
ment that there was no such urgency for Sambandam to leave the station after 
handing over the keys to the Officer - in - charge , but he could have waited in the 
station till someone else became available to take over the keys from him . This 
line of reasoning is meaningless , for when once the leave was sanctioned he had 
a right to leave the station after handing over the keys to such person as the 
officer - in - charge might direct. It will also be seen from the evidence of the 
Officer - in - charge that during those days he had himself obtained the sanction of 
the higher authorities to leave the station , and so he had handed over his set of 
keys to the Officer - in - charge at the Alleppey Branch , so that at the time when 
Samhandam handed over his set of keys , the oicer - in - charge did not have with 
him his own set of keys. This , Sambandam knew , as he was told so at that time. 
Thus, when Sambandam handed over his keys, both the sets of keys had not gone 
into the hands of the officer - in - charge. It was pointed out that it was open to 
the Officer - in - charge to obtain his own set of keys from Alleppey and make use 
of both scts of keys. But Sambandam could not ordinarily be experted to con 
template and provide for all such contingencies. Sambandam might not know 
when the keys at Alleppey would become available to the Officer - in - charge . It 
the circumstances were such that the Cashier should not leave the station , hand 
ing over the keys to the Officer - in - charge, it was clearly the duty of the Officer 
to have refused the leave and compelled the cashier to remain in the station , 
The finding of the enquiry - offirer was that the sanction given by the Officer - in 
charge cannot be considered to be a willing sanction but a sanction obtained by 
coercion , I should only characterise that finding as fantastic . It is difficult to 
imagine what coercion or compulsion the cashier could have exercised on the 
Omcer - in - charge for obtaining the sanction . It may be that the Oficer - in - charge 
was reluctant to grant it ; but it is utterly meaningless to say that it was extracted 
out of him hy coercion or compulsion Inriecil, the Officer himself in his letter 
dsted 26th August. 1961, to the Head Office reported that he granted the leave 
on loss of pay to the Cashier and received the keys, and that the cashier presgedt 
him for leave. The enquiry - officer also found that Sambandam had acted in a 
most irresponsible manner without raring for the Bank s interest in not retrain 
mg at Cochin but going to Coimbatore where he had no urgent business . It is 


Sec . S(ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 12, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


1717 


difficult to understand this finding, for, when once the leave was sanctioned by 
a competent authority , he had the necessary permission to leave the station , If 
Sainbandam s Icaving the station was deterimental to the bank s interest, it was 
clearly the duty of the Officer - in - charge to have prevented it by refusing to grant 
the leave. Sri Scctharman appearing for the union contended that there is no 
article in the Bank s Regulations ( Ex . M - 3 ) prohibiting the handing over of the 
keys to the Officer - in - charge who was holding the other set of keys. But, under 
Article 25 an employee who " knowingly does anything detrimental to the in 
terests of the Bank ” will render himself liable for punishment. On the facts of 
tlus case , it is clear that Sambandum did not knowingly do anything detrimental 
to the interests of the Bank . What he did was done with the full sanction and 
concurrence of the competent authority . There is no article in the Bank s regu 
latföns providing that under no circumstances the cashier should hand over his 
set of keys to the Officer- in - charge. In my view , this charge must fail. 

7 . The other two charges may be taken together . Sambandam applied for 
leave on 2nd September 1961 on the ground that he had to attend a function at 
his sister s house In Virachilai and did not go there, but spent the time at Coim 
batore , and similarly he applied for 12 days privilege leave in August 1961 or 
eye testing and eye treatment but spent the time going about other places ; in 
other words he obtained leave on both the occasions on false grounds . The expla 
nation offered by Sambandham was not accepted by the Enquiry -Officer. His 
Anding was that on both the occasions he applied for leave on false grounds 
which is against the staff regulations. But there is nothing in the staff regulations 
(Ex . M - 3 ) to constitute false grounds in leave applications into an act of mis 
conduct. In the absence of any such regulations, it will not be permissible for the 
management to terminate the services of an employee on that ground . The 
remedy is to amend the regulations or to refuse leave to employees who resort to 
false grounds. 

8 . It follows that none of the charges on which Sambandam was sent out of 
service is legally sustainable , and the findings of the Enquiry Officer must be 
characterised as perverse and call for the interference by this Tribunal. 

9 . Sri Seetharaman for the union also contended that in this case, the order 
Ex . W - 7 terminating the services of Sambandam was passed by the Secretary of 
thc Bank , and under the regulations he was not the competent authority to do so . 
It will be seen from Article 3 of the regulations that Sambandam as cashier will 
fall under category D . The management contended that he would fall under cate 
gory E as he was only an assistant in the cash department. But the order Ex 
W - j shows that Sambandain was a cashier in Coimbatore and was transferred to 
Cochin Branch as cashier . It will also be seen that in the charge - sheets Exs . W - 2 
and W - 5 , as well as in the orders W - 3 and W - 3 ( a ) , Sambandam is described only 
as Cashier of the Cochin Branch and not as an assistant in the cash department. 
It must therefore be taken that he belongs to category D . That being so , under 
article 27 of the Regulatlons, the Secretary is given no power to pass the order of 
discharge or dismissal against that category of employees . It follows that the dis 
charge of Şambandam from service by the Secretary was made by an authority not 
competent to do so . 

10 . The result is that the discharge of Sambandam from service was utterly 
unjustified , and in all the circumstances of this case it seems to me that he was 
made the victim of those charges only because as Vice - President he was collecting 
donations for the union and actively participating in its organisation . 

11 . The other employee concerned in this reference is Venkataraman , a clerk 
in the Central Office at Madurai. In September October 1961, chargc memos Exs . 
W - 8 and W - 8 ( a ) were served upon him charging him that on the evening of 7th 
September 1461 at about 6 - 30 P .M . after office hours, he went upstairs to the office 
and typed some private letter and interfered with the Steno - Typist s drawer and 
runsacked the papers . Pending enquiry he was plared under suspension by the 
order Ex . W - 9 dated 27th October 1961. An enquiry was held on that charge , and 
the enquiry papers are filed as Fx , M -4 , Thrre witnesses were examined in sup 
port of the charge namely , the Inspector of Branches Mr, P . K . Srinivasan , AC 
countant Ratnam , and th - Peon Pitchai. I have been taken through their evi 
denme and I And that not one of them has spoken to the charge that this clerk 
opened the drawer of the Steno -typist s table and rangaked the papers. No doubt, 
the drawer remained open , but they did not depose and that it was the clerk who 
opened it. They do not know if the clerk ransaked the papers in the drawer . The 
Enquiry Officer s Anding that this clerk would have stealthily gone upstairs to the 
Stenographer a tahle to fish out Information relating to union matters , is based on 


1718 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1962 /VAISAKHA 22 , 1884 


[Part 1] 


pure imagination . What all the witnesses saw was that this clerk was typiny a 
paper on the steno - typist s typewriting machine. His table way downstairs , and 
because he found the machines there all locked up , he went upstalrs to do do this 
small typing. Peon Pitchai saw it and reported to the Accountant Ratnam , who 
came and remonstrated with Venkataraman , The Inspector of Branches was then 
writing his report and he also went upstairs. All that the cvidence establishes in 
this case is that on the machine of the stenotypist, shortly after office hours, this 
clerk typed a small private matter. This is all the misconduct which the clerk 
was guilty oť and no other . It will be seen that this clerk is employed in the 
very same oilice, and not a stranger to it . There is no evidence that he stealthily 
went upstairs to spy out information for the union . There is no evidence that he 
had any criminal Intent when he went upstairs. The fact that he typed some pri 
vate letter on the typewriter belonging to another clerk of the same olce is cer 
tainly not an offcncc entailing loss of his job . There is nothing in the regulations 
justifying the termination of his services for this peccadills . To terminate his 
services under such circumstances seems to me perverse and an act of victimisa 
tion for his being a member of the executive committee of the union . It will also 
be seen that under Art . 27 of the Staff Regulations, the Secretary of the Bank can 
pass the order of dismissal in regard to this clerk who falls under category E . 
But instead of doing so , the matter appears to have been placed before the Board 
of Directors, who accepted the findings of the enquiry officer and resolved to ter 
minate the services of this clerk . When the clerk applied for the copy of the find 
Ings of the Enquiry Officer , the Secretary refused to comply with his request on 
the ground that it was a confidential document. It will be seen that if the Secre 
tary had passed the order terminating the services of the clerk , he would have 
had the right of appeal to the Board under Article 29 . By the procedurę adopted 
by the Secretary , the clerk was denied not only his right of appeal but also the 
right to obtain a copy of the Enquiry Officer s findings . In the above circumstan 
ces , I feel compelled to interfere with the punishment awarded to this employee . 


12 . In the result, in the case of both these employees , the charges are unsus 
tainable , and they did not deserve to be sent out of service . Circumstances point 
to the Inference that all their trouble was due to the fact that they were active 
members of the union . Both these employees must therefore be reinstated with 
back wages and without break in the continuity of service . In view of this find 
ing , it is unnecessary to consider the question of suspension raised under Issue 
No. 1 . 


13. An objection was taken by the management as to the maintainability of 
this reference on the ground that the office -bearers of the union were not duly 
Authorised to raise this dispute on behalf of these employees, and therefore it 
must be regarded as an individual and not an industrial dispute . It is true that 
a dispute relating to an individual worker can become an industrial dispute only 
If It is sponsored by the union or by a considerable number of workers. In this 
case the union has produced the minutes book Exs, W - 12 and W - 12 ( a ). Ex . W - 12 
Is the minutes of the emergency meeting of the executive committee and unit 
representatives , wherein a strong protest was recorded against the suspension of 
Şainbandam And Venkataraman . It authorised the office -bearers of the union to 
take all necessary steps to safeguard the interests of the employees . Ex . W - 12 ( a ) 
is the minutes of the emergency meeting of the Central Committee and the active 
workers held on 28th January 1962 , resolving that an application should be fled 
to the Government of India for a reference of this dispute for adjudication , and 
authorising the General Secretary to take necessary steps. It will thus be seen 
that the individual disputes of these two employees were sponsored by the union , 
as a result of which this reference was made by the Government. It was conten 
ded for the management that there was no meeting of the general body , in which 
any such resolution was passed. But according to the bye - laws of the union , the 
general body shall consist only of the representatives elected from among the mem 
bers of each Branch at the rate of one representative for every ten employees . 
As this dispute is sponsored by the union , about whose representative capacity 
there is no controversy , it must be considered to be an Industrial dispute . 


13 . There will be an award as stated above. 


(Sd .) K . RAMASWAMI GOUNDAR, 

Industrial Tribunal. 
INo. 81 ( 2 ) /42 - LRIVI 


Sec. Scil)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 12 , 1982/VAISAKHA 29 . 1884 


Now Delhi, the 7th May, 1962 
S . O . 1450. - In pursuance oi section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1 : 47 ( 14 
of 1947 ), the Cential Government hereby publishes the followilib award of the 
Labour Court, Dhanbart, in the matter of an application under section 33 - A of 
the said Act from Shri Kant Kumar Dwiyedı, X - employce ol line United Com 
mercial Bank Limited , 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT LABOUR COURT, DHANBAD 

APPLICATION No. 284 OF 1961 
(arising out of Rulerence No. 1 of 1960 of the National Industrial Tribu 

nal ( Bank Disputes) Bombay ) . 
In the matter of complaint under Section 33 - A , of Industrial Disputes Act, 

1947 (XIV of 47) , translerred from the file of the National Indus 
trial Tribunal ( Bank Disputes) , Bombay , by letter No. NIT ( Banks ) / 
134 / 60 , dated 27th January , 1961, 


PARTIES : 
Shri Kant Kumar Dwiycdi, c / o Bihar Provincial Bank Employees Associa 
tion , Mokhtartoli, Patna - 3 . — Complainant , 

Vs . 
The United Commercial Bank Ltd ., Muzaffarpur , having its H . O . at 2 India 
Exchange Place , Post Bux No . 2455 , Calcutta - 1 . - Opposite party . 

PRESENT: 
Shri C . B . Mitter, M . A . M . L ., Presiding Officer, 
APPEARANCES : 

No appearance for the applicant, 
Shri R . V . Govindan , Law Omcer, for the Bank . — Opposite party . 

Dhanbad , the 30th April, 1962. 
STATE : Bihar, 

INDUSTHY : Banking. 
AWARD 


This application is under Section 33 - A , of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 47 ) , has been filed by one Kant Kumar Dwivedi on the allegation that 
although he was appointed as a clerk to All in a permanent post on 15th February , 
1960, and was shortly thercafter deputed to work as a clerk - cuni - Assistant 
Godown Kooper, and although he had all along been performing hus duties con 
scientiously to the satisfaction of his superiors, the opposite party terminuted his 
services by their letter dated 19th August , 1960 , at a time when he had already 
completed six months of service und had earned the right to be contirmed as per 
Sastry award . This termination , according to the applicant, violated the provi 
sions of Section 33 , firstly because that an industrial dispule concerning the 
employces in the banking companies was pending before the National Industrial 
Tribunal ( Bank Disputes ) and secondly because, no notice of termination was 
given to the petitioner nor was the procedure for such termination as laid down 
in the award was adopted by the Bank . It is further contended that the action 
of the Bank in terminating the service of the applicant when he had already com 
plcted six motns four days of service was maluſille and that as such this court 
might be pleased to pass necessary orders in the case . 


2 . It is contended by the Bank in its reply that as the applicant was appointed 
on a temporary basis the provisions of Section 33 , were not attracted at all. It 
is next contended that the applicant was not appointed to fill a permanent post 
and that it was wrong to suggest that the Bank in terminating his services was 
actuated by the malafide motive of depriving the workman of his right to con 
firmation . It is further alleged that the services of the applicant were terminated 
as his work was found not satisfactory and that the reasons for such termination 
were not disclosed as otherwise the interests of the applicant would have been 
harmed thereby . It is finally , contended that that as the applicant was a tempo 
rary employer, it was neither necessary to give him any notice of termination 
nor was it necessary to serve on him a show cause noti s nor to follow the pro 
cedure laid down in Sastry Award , 


420 


THE ĞAZ, OF INDIA : MAY Iž, 1962 /VAISAKHA 22, 1834 


iPart II.--Sec. 3 (U )] 


3 . The contention of the Bank that the provisions of Section 33 , are not attract 
cd in a case of termination of service or a temporary cmployee must lall as there 
is no such word qualifying the term workman that section in the case bet 
ween State Bank of India , Indian Stall Association and State of India ( 1951 - 1 
L . L . J . P . 97 ) , the Appellate Tribunal of india observed that it was well settled 
that even a temporary workman was entitled to the protection allorded by Sec 
tions 33 and 33 - A of the Act . 

4 . The next contention of the Bank is that as it was a case of termination of 
service simpliciter strictly in conformity with the terms of the appointment, it 
was not necessary for them to follow the procedure laid down in Section 33 ( 2 ) 
( b ) of the Act . Here the Bank stands on good ground. It was well settled that 
the employer would be required to seek the approval of the Tribunal before 
whom the reference is pending only in a case where the action taken by them 19 
punitive . ( Atma Singh V8. Anil Starch - 1960 - I - L , L . J . p . 77 ) . Where , therelore , 
the services are merely terminated without any intent to punish the incunibent, 
the provisions of Section 33, of the Act would not be attracted at ail. It is true 
that the court has been cmpowered to examine the bonafides of the employers 
and to satisfy itself that thc termination was not a more camouflage resorted to 
by them with a view to avoid the dilatory procedure of charge sheeting the 
cmployee and enquiring into the charges, But in this case no materials have 
been placed on record by the workman to assist the court in coming to a flnding 
of malafide on the part of the Bank , und on the principle that law would always 
presume the absence of what is edious and dishonourable . I am constrained to 
hold that the contention of the bank that it is a case of termination simpliciter 
should stand . 

5 . It is of course true that according to the Sastry Award even a temporary 
employee is entitled to have 14 days notice of termination . But in order to found 
a complaint under Section 33 - A , it is not suiticicnt merely to conclude that there 
has been a violation of the terms of the Sastry Award . It is essential to deter 
mine if the provisions of Section 33 , have been contravened . According to this 
Şection the employer in discharging or dismissing an employee for misconduct is 
required to act in accordance with the standing orders. But when no punitive 
element is discernible in the action taken by the Bank , it would be idle to con 
sider if the standing orders or for the matter of that the terms of Sastry Award 
have been contravened , 

6 . In the result , the complaint is ordered to be dismissed. There will be no 
order as to costs . 

DHANBAD , 
The 30th April, 1962. 

$ d ./ - C . B . MITTER , 

Presiding Officer , 
Central Government Labour Court Dhanbad . 

No . 56 (3 ) / 62 - LRIV .) 
B , R . SETH , Dy. Secy . 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 3rd May 1962 
S . O . 1461. — In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour and Employment No. S .O . 669 , dated the 27th February , 1962 , published 
at pages 603 and 604 in Part II , Section 3 , Sub - section ( 11) ot the Gazette of India , 
dated the 3rd March , 1962, 

for " 3 Maragowdanahalll" , 
read " 3 Naragowdanahalll” . 

[No. F . 13 (5 ) / 82. ] 
BALWANT SINGH , Under Secy . 


PHINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANACFR OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1962 


