o 222 


REGISTERED No. D. M2 


9TRH " 

IZhe (Baxctte of JJndia 


ffrfWr d Mgfo i t r 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


tfo 52] tjf STfolTT, f^BT 24, 19 66 /«tVt 3, 1888 

No. S3] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 24, 1966/PAUSA 3, 1888 

f R HRT ^ Wft ^ fa *1% SR?m tffWT * *<T R XJST K\ RT I 

Separate paging is given to this Part In order that It may be filed 
as a separate compilation. 

«?fiW 

NOTICE 

^mci $ w^iTHTTtii uam 10 faiFsp - , 1966 ?ep sj^ifacr fat* i 

The under mentioned Ga7ettes of India Extraordinary were published up to the loth 
December, 1966 


Issue 

No. 

No and Date 


Issued by 

Subject 

406 

S.O. 31S71, dated 
comber, inert. 

5th Do- 

Ministry of Commerce 

Further amendment in the Tex- 
tile Commissioner’s notifica- 
tion No. S.O. 2094, dated 
6th Tuly, 1966, 

407 

S.O. 3rt72, dtted 
ccmbcr, xyhfi, 

5th De- 

Ministry of Home 
Allans. 

The Punjab Reorganisation (Re- 
moval of Difficulties!, Order 
No. 2 of 196b. 

408 

S.O. 3 / >73 , d Ped 
Cember, 1966. 

5th Do- 

Election C mytiission, 
India 

Designating Returning Officers 
for the Parliamentary Cons- 
tituencies in the Union 

Territory ol Delhi, 


S.O. 3674, dated 
comber, xo66. 

5th De- 

Do. 

Appointing some officers to 
assist the Returning Officers. 

409 

S.O. 3675, dated 
cember, 1966. 

6th De- 

Do. 

Corrections in the Delimita- 
tion Commission! i’s Order 
No. 9, dated ifirh Septem- 
ber, 1965 relating to the State 
of Madras. 

410 

S.O. 3S76, dated 
cember, 1966. 

6th De- 

Do. 

Cvr*;nni m the Delimita- 
tion C immission’j Order No. 
17, dated 22nd July, 1966, 
relating to the Union Territory 
of Delhi. 


( 3501 ) 




3502 l_HK GAZITTl or INDIA : DECEMBER. 24, 1068/PAUSA 3. 1888 [Pam U- 


Itsue No. and Date 

No. 

Isiued by 

Subject 

41 1 S.O. 3789, dated 7th De- 
cember, 1966. 

Ministry of Information 
and Broadcasting, 

Approval of the film as specified 
therein. 

417 S.O. 370 1, dated 9-h De- 
cember, 1966. 

Ministry of Commerce. 

Further amendment to the 
Exports (Control Order, 

1962. 

413 S.O. 3791, dated rath De- 
cember, 1966. 

Election Commission, 
India. 

Designating the Divisional 
Commissioner, Jammu and 
the Divisional Commissioner, 
Srinagar as the Officers to 
Whom appeals shall lie front 
the decisions of the Registra- 
tion Officer* of the Parllame*- 
tary Constituencies. 


ott SW otwiet Tfsrc^r trftm wm* faftnr u t ^-u , 4 »mr 

‘rt'TTT <rr wr sft i jtbitt 4 «mr y^r irsmf ^ mft nft dTfj« 
10 fjpr ^ 4bnr n^r m ffij' i 


Copies of the Gaiette* Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied cm 
Indent to the Manaier of Publication*, ’ Civil Line*, Delhi. Indent* should be 
aubmitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of Issue of 
these Gaieties. 


HPT H-nw* (ii) 

PART II — Section 3 — Sub-section (ii) 

(ustt hTm •V**') west wit 4 trumf atfr *k mi i wwi w* *Vrw) 

5n r rvrrr»rf wkr wfr i 

Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern- 
ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administration of Union Territories). 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 

New Delhi, the 21 st November 1906 


S O. 3886. — In pursuance of section 109 of the Representation of th* People 
Act 1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes the Order pronounced on the 
•th November, 1966 by the Election Tribunal, Jhunjhunu. 

BEFORE THE MEMBER ELECTION TRIBUNAL, JHUNJHUNU 
SHRI MOHAMMED RAZA ALT KHAN, R.H.J.S. 


Election Petition No. 269 of 1902 

Kldmalsingh son of Shri Chand Singh caste Rajput resident of village 
Tehsil Chlrawa, District Jhunjhunu — Petitioner. 


Lama, 


Versus 

U) Shri Murarka Radhey Shyam Ramkumar son of Shri Murarka Ramkumar 
Shri Niwas, caste Vaishya, resident of Nawalgarh at present at Carmical 
Road, Bombay. 




Me. 8(11)3 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966/PAtjSA 3, 1S88 


35°I 


(2) Th. Raghubir Singhji son of Rawan Rishan Singhji, caste Rajput, resident of 
Bissau at present residing at Bissau House, Hawaii Sahar Garbi, Khetri Road, 
Jaipur, 

(3) Shri Ghasl Ram son of Shri Jaita Ram caste Jat, resident of Bas Ghasi 

Ramka, Post Office Bagar, District Jhunjhunu. v 

(4) Shri Maliram son of Shri Laxmichand, caste Raigar, resident of Ralgar 
Mohalla, Nawalgarh, District Jhunjhunu. 

(5) Shri Biharilal Bhartiya ion of Shri Rameshwarji Peeramal Arichwal caate 
Brahman resident of Bagar, Dist. Jhunjhunu, 

(8) Shri Loyalka Chiraniilal, Sri Ram Chandra son of Shri Ramchandra caste 
Vaishya resident of Pilnni at present residing at Share and Stock Broker 
Stock Exchange, New Building, Appolo Street, Fort Bombay. 

(7) Returning Officer, Shri V. I. Rajgopal I.A.S. ('Jhunjhunu Parliamentary Cons- 
tinuency) at present posted as Director Small Saving at Jaipur — Respondent. 

Election Petition under section 81 of the Representation of People Act, 1881, 
to set aside election of Shri Murarka Radheyshyam Ramkumar. 

Present; 

Shri Girdhar Gopal Bhargava Advocate counsel for the petitioner. 

Shri Ganesh Narain Sharma and Shri Mahabeer Prasad Jain counsel for Rtt~ 
p ondent No. 1, 

Shri Gokul Prasad Sharma counsel for Respondent No. 2. 

JUDGMENT 

This Election Petition was presented hy one Ridmal Singh, an elector in th* 
Jhunjhunu Parliamentary Constituency u/s 81 of the Representation of People 
Act, T51 (hereinafler to be referred as the Act), before the Election Commis- 
aion, India, New Delhi on 12th April, 1962. In pursuance of section 86(3) of the 
Act this petition was sent to this Tribunal for trial. 

The facts giving rise to this petition briefly stated are these: — 

The third general election for the House of People was held In the month 
of February, 1962. There were six candidates for Jhunjhunu Parlla- 
mentary Constituency whoso nomination papers were accepted aa 
valid by the Returning Officer of the said Constituency. The scrutiny 
of the nomination papers was effected by the Returning Officer on 
22nd January, 1962 and the actual poll took place on 21st, 23rd and 
25th February, 1962. The counting of the ballot papers commenced 
from 26th February, 1962 and the result was declared by the 
Returning Officer on 28th February, 1962. For the sake of conveni- 
ence, the votes secured by each candidate to the Jhunjhunu Parlia- 
mentary Constituency are given below: — 

Votes Secured 


(1) Shri Murarka Radhey Shyam Ramkumar Respondent 

No. 1 81,051 

(2) Shri Raghubir Singhji Respondent No. 2 77,591 

(3) Shri Ghasi Ram Respondent No. 3 71,551 

(4) Shri Mali Ram Respondent No. 4 24,039 

(5) Shri Beharilal Bhartiya Respondent No. 5 7,805 

(6) Shri Lovalka Chiranjilal Ramchandra Respondent 

No. 6 0,276 


As a result of the above announcement Respondent No. 1 Shri Murarka 
Radheyshyam Ramkumar (hereinafter to be referred as Respondent No, 1) whs 
declared by the Returning Officer to be elected by a majority of 3,460 votes from 
his nearest rival Shri Raghubirsingh (hereinafter to be referred as Respondent 
No. 2). 



3504 Gi V 


OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24, 1966/PAUSA 3, 1888 


[Pa*t 11— 


This petition was originally presented on 12th April, 1982 before the Election 
Commission and was received here on 24th May 1962. There were certain pre- 
liminary objections on behalf of the Respondent No. 1 that some essential parti- 
culars about the allegations were not given. The amendment of the petition was 
accordingly ordered and the amended petition was presented on 3rd October 1903. 
The additional written statement was filed by Respondent No. 1 on 19th November 
1963 but the Tribunal by its order dated 2nd December 1963 did not entertain 
it. 


The Respondent No. 1 also presented recrimination application on 26th June 
1962 against Respondent No. 2 and its reply was presented on 9th July 1962. 

It will appear that the petitioner has made several allegations under various 
paras of the petition. The allegations have been classified under various item* 
hut instead of making a verbatim repetition of the paras I propose to give a classi- 
fied resume of the allegations by way of introduction while the allegations in 
their essential details will he dealt with at the appropriate place along with the 
findings of the issues. 


The allegations in the Election Petition may be classified in tw T o main parts, 
the first relates to the improper rejection of the nomination paper of one Sfiri 
Balji, while the second relates to irregularities in counting, change of polling 
stations and corrupt practices. The allegations in the second part are contained 
in paras 13 and 14 and their respective sub-paras. Para No. 13 consists of 12 sub- 
paras of which sub-paras (i) to (v) and (xii) refer to the irregularities in count- 
ing, mishandling and tampering with the ballot papers (covered in issues No. 10. 
11, 12, 13, 14 and 22 and 23,) while sub-paras (vi) to (xi) of para No. 13 deal 
with the allegations and irregularities as a result of change in poiling stations 
and thus depriving the electors of the exercise of their right of franchise, (cover- 
ed in issues No. 15, 16, 17, 18 19, 20 and 21). Para No. 14 of the petition is very 
important and deals with the allegations of corrupt practices said to have been 
committed by Respondent No. 1 (one). These allegations are again divided in 
sub-paras (a) to (h) (covered by issues No. 24 to No. 30). 

Para No. 14(a) to (d) [covered in issues No. 24 (a), (b) (c) and (d)], relate to 
the allegations that Respondent No. 1 made payment of Rs. 5,000 to each of the 
eight congress candidates for the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly and also paid 
Rs. 1.000 by way of subscription to Congress Party for furthering the cause of 

election of Respondent No. 1, further the Respondent No. 1 procured 30 brand 
new jeeps, two station-wagons and one buick car for election purposes, 

Allegations in para 14 (d). (i), (ii), (iii) and 14 (e) [covered in issues No. 25(a), 
(b), (c), No. 26(a), (b)]> relate to the depreciation charges of 30 jeeps, 2 station 
wagons and one buick car, ranging upto Rs. 1,27,000 and expenses of Rs. 18,000 
incurred by Respondent No. 1 on hire of 10 jeeps and also payment of Rs. 4,000 
to the drivers of jeeps, and incurring of expenses of Rs. 36,000 on petrol and 
Rs. 3,000 on mobile oil. 

Allegations in para 14(f) (covered in issue No. 27) relate with the travelling 
expenses alleged to have been Incurred by Respondent No. 1 of 20 salaried em- 
ployees which were called by him from outside. 

Allegations in para No. 14(g) (covered in issue No. 38 (a) (b) and No. 29(a) 
(b) refer to the expenses incurred oh meetings at various places as well a* 
meetings arranged on the occasion of the visit of Shri Morarji Desai, entailing 
an expenditure of Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 5,000, respectively. 

Allegations in para No. 14(h) (covered in issue No. 30) deal with regard to 
the alleged messes run at two places, Nawalgarh and .Thunjhunu, by respondent 
No. 1, who incurred Rs. 12,000 towards the expenses of these messes. 

Rest of the paras of the petition Nos. 15, 16. 17 refer to the presentation of 
the petition within thn time prescribed making security deposit for presenting 
the petition aa required by section 117 of the Act and lastly the relief asked for. 

To sum up. the petitioner has challenged the election of Respondent No. 1 
and has prayed that it be declared void and that he may be disqualified on the 
following grounds: — 

(1) That the Returning Officer wrongly rejected the nomination paper of 
Balu, as such, the election of Respondent No. 1 is liable to be set 
aside u/s 101 of the Act. 



3505 


SBC. THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 2i, 19GG/PAUSA 3,1888 


(2) That there had been irregularities in counting and change of polling 

stations, further there was mishandling and tampering with the 
ballot papers which materially all'ccted the result of election. 

(3) That Respondent No, 1 has committed corrupt practices:— 

(1) As he has Incurred far greater expenses than Rs, 28,000 as prescribed 
in Rule 90 of the Conduct of Election Rules, 1901. 

(ii) That he has committed corrupt practices of incurring or authorising 
expenses in contravention of section 77 of rhe Act between the 
date of notification calling the election which was 13th January 
1902 and the date of declaration of result on 28th February, 1962. 

The petitioner in the concluding para of the petition has further prayed and 
asked for the relict that election of Respondent No. 1 may be declared void and 
Respondent No. 2 be declared as duly elected candidate for the Jhunjhunu 
Parliamentary Constituency and. further Respondent No. 1 be also declared as 
disqualified u/s 140 of the Act (which entails disqualification for membership of 
the Parliament and of the Legislature of any State for a period of six years). 

The Respondent No. 1 filed his written statement on 10th September 1962 be- 
fore the election Tribunal which runs into 43 paras. Of these paras No. 1 to 16 
■deal with the preliminary objections with regard to the affidavit filed along with 
the petition that material facts about some of the allegations have been lacking 
in the petition. In other paras of the written statement the Respondent No 1 
kas denied that rejection of the nomination paper of Balji was improper, while 
gaaraa No. 16 to 41 of the written statement contain the parawlse replies of the 
allegations made in the petition. 

The Respondent No. 1 has completely denied allegations about irregularities 
in counting, tampering with the ballot papers and change of polling stations. 
He has also denied the corrupt practices as detailed in para No. 14 of the petition. 
In the end the Respondent No. 1 has prayed that the petition is false and fri- 
volus and should be dismissed with costs. 

On behalf of the petitioner 77 witnesses have been produced in support of the 
petition and in rebuttal 13 witnesses have been produced and examined before 
the Tribunal and 7 witnesses have been examined on commission on behalf of 
Respondent No. 1, A number of documents have been produced on both the 
rides but 29 documents have been exhibited on behalf of the petitioner and 7 
documents have been exhibited on behalf of the Respondent No. 1. 

In support of recrimination application 8 witnesses have been produced on 
behalf of Respondent No. 1 and 7 witnesses have been produced in rebuttal on 
ikehalf of Respondent No. 2. 

As many as 38 issues were framed on the pleadings of the parties on 3rd 
December 1963 which are as under:— 

(1) Whether the petitioner Shri Ridmalsingh is an elector in the Jhunjhunu 

Parliamentary Constituency and is entitled to present the petition? 

(2) Is the affidavit dated 14th August, 1902 in support' of the allegations of 

corrupt practices contained in the petition barred by law of limita- 
tion? If so, is the petition not maintainable? 

(3) Whether the petition docs not disclose a cause of action so far as the 

ground of improper rejection of the nomination paper of Shri Ballu 
& concerned? 

(4) Are the allegations contained in paragraphs No. 1 to 12 and Para IS, 

sub-para (ii) of the petition inconsistent with the relief No. 2 and 
are embarrasing and prejudicial to the Respondent No. 1? Are they 
liable to be struck off? 

(5) Did the Returning Officer fail in his duty at the time of the presenta- 

tion of Shri Ballu’s nomination paper to satlsty himself whether th* 
names and electoral roll rumbers of the candidate and his proposer 
as entered in the nomination paper were the same as entered in the 
electoral roll and, If so, what is the consequence thereof? 

(6) Did the Returning Officer fail in his duty to permit Shri Ballu or his 

proposer to correct the entry of his nomination paper and, if so, 
what is the consequence thereof? 



3^06 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24, 1986/PAUSA 3. 1888 


[Part II— 


(7) Did the nomination paper of Shri Ballu contain the defects as record- 

ed by the Returning Officer? If so, were these defects of unsubs- 
tantial character and the nomination paper was improperly rejected? 

(8) Did the nomination paper of Shri Ballu contain other defects as stated 

in para 11 of the written statement? If so, were those defects of a 
substantial character and his nomination paper was liable to be reject- 
ed for those defects also? 

(9) Did the Returning Officer act illegally in rejecting the nomination 

paper of Shri Ballu, though no candidate, election agent of any 
candidate or any other person present at the time of scrutiny object- 
ed to the nomination paper or to the identity of the proposer of 
Shri Ballu? If so, what is its effect? 

(10) Did the Returning Officer fail to observe the provisions of the R.P. Act 

and the Rules as alleged in para No. 13(i) of the petition and the 
events mentioned in the para 1 3 (i) spoiled about 10,000 votes east 
in favour of Respondent No. 2 which were later on rejected and 
about 5,000 ballot papers got inlc marks which were illegally and 
improperly counted in favour of respondent No. IT If so, did it 
materially affect the result of election? 

(11) Did the Returning Officer reject thousands of votes cast in favour of 

respondent Nos. 3 to 6 and count the same in their favour? If so, 
what was the number of such votes? 

(12) Did the Returning Officer improperly count votes In favour of respon- 

dent No. 1 which deserve to be rejected? If so, what was their 
number? How did it affect the result of the election? 

(13) Did the counting authorities improperly place ballot papers cast m 

favour of respondent No. 2 in the bundles containing the ballot 
papers cast in favour of respondent No. 1? If so, what was the 
number of such ballot papers and how it affected the result of the 
election? 

(14) Did the counting authorities improperly mix votes cast in favour of 

respondent Nos, 3 to 6 and count the same in their favour? If so, 
what was the number of such voles and how did it affect the result 
of the election? 

(IB) (a) Were the voters of the electoral roll part No. 33 of the Gudha 
Assembly constituency to rnrt their votes at nolling station No. 5 
In Pukhta Dharamsala Bhorki and voters of the electoral roll part 
No. 34 to cast their votes at poking station No. 6 situate in Glllon- 
ki-Dhani in the same constituency according to the official Gazette 
notified list of polling stations u/s 25 of the Act? 

(b) Did the Returning Officer allow the voters of electoral roll No. 33 to 
cast their votes at pollintr station No. 6 Gillon-ki-Dhani and the 
voters of electoral roll oart No. 34 to cast their votes at polling 
station No. 5 at Pukhta Dharamsala Bhorki? 

'(c) Whether this change was Illegal and votes polled void? 

(d) Whether due to this chanec only 450 voters could cast their votes at 

polling station No. 5 and 53(1 at polling station No. 67" 

(e) Were any number of voters deprived of their franchise due to thi» 

change? 

(f) Is so, how many? 

(g) How these matters affected the result of the election? 

(18) Was the Polling station No. 18 changed without notice from Tbanmal 
Chunnilal Dharamsal to Durgaram’s Dharamsal in Jasrapur? Did 
the voters not know this change in polling station and thev could 
not cast their votes? If so, what was the number of such voters and 
how did it affect the result of election? 

(17) Was the Polling station Bissau No. 4 changed from Islamia Madarsa 
to Boitramji’s Dharamsal Bissau?, If so, were the voters misled by 



' 35°7 


aw. »(lt)] THK GAZETTE OF INDIA : DICIMBI.r ti, /f AUIA I. 


this change and could not cast their votes. If *o, how many and 
how this change affected the election result? 

(18) (a) Were wrong and unauthorised ballot paper* uaed at Kakrana P.S. 

No. 24 and at Mandawa P.S. 53? 

(b) Were such votes cast at Kakrana P.S. and .Mandawa P.S. void and, if 

so, what was their number? 

(c) What would be the effect of the use of such unauthorised ballot paper* 

on the election? 

(19) Were tendered votes cast at the election? If go, how many and whethea 

they were required to be counted and, if not counted, how it affected 
the result of the election? 

(20) Was the Returning Officer required to issue any notice to the eletcora 

posted on election duty of the Jhunjhunu Parliamentary constituency 
and he failed in that? If so, what was the number of such electora 
and how non-issue of the notice affected the result of the election? 

(21) Whether the authorities entrusted with the duties of counting tampered 

with the result-sheets at the time of counting as alleged in para No. 
13 (xi) of the petition? If ao, how did it affect the reault of tha 
election? 

(22) (a) Did the Returning Officer suspend the counting In the night of 26th 

February, 1962 at 11 p.m. and recommence on 27th February, 190> 
at 9 AJM. 

(b) Were the counted and the doubtful ballot papers not resealed during 
the interval and, there was tampering of the ballot papers in favou* 
of respondent No. 1 during the period of auapension? If ao, what in 
its effect? 

(23) Did the Returning Officer adjourn the counting of ballot paper* o» 

28th February 1962 at 5 a.m. for 5 hours and during that suspension 
doubtful votes were not sealed and they were tampered with in 
favour of respondent No. 1? If so, what was the number of such 
votes and what would be its effect on election? 

(24) (a) Did the respondent No. 1 pay Rs. 5,000 to each of the eight congres* 

candidates for the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly for furthering 
the cause of his election between 13th January 1992 and 28th Febru- 
ary 1962? 

(b) Did the resp'ndeffi No. 1 pay Rs. 1,000 bv way of subscription to th* 

Congress Party for furthering the prospect off his candidature on 
13th January 1902 or on any other date thereafter before 19th Janu- 
ary 1902? 

(c) Did the respondent No, 1 purchase and procure not less than SO brand 

new jeeps and two brand new station wagons and use them for hi* 
election purposes? 

(d) Did the respondent No. 1 u»e one old buick c*r and 10 hired jeep* for 

his election purposes? 

If so, have the above expenses of the hire of jeep* and depredation charge* 
of Station Wagons, jeeps *nd old buick car not been included in th* 
Election Expenses Return of the respondent No. 1? What Would b* 
the effect? 

(25) (a) Did the respondent No. 1 incur depreciation charge* of each jeep 

between 13th January, 1962 and 28t.h February 1902 at Rs. 4,000 for 
each station wagon at Rs. 3.000 and for old buick car at R*. 1,000? 

(b) Was the daily hire of one jeep Rs. 60T 

(c) Did the respondent No. 1 incur the expense* of R*. 18,000 for hire oi 

10 jeeps till 28th February 1902? 

If so, have these expenses not been shown in the electio* Expenses Retun* 
of the Respondent No. 1 and what would be it* eff*et on th* election? 




lfo 8 AHE GAZETTE or INDIA: DECEMBER 24 , 1966/PAVSA J, 1888 


[Past II— 


(20) (a) Did the respondent No. 1 incur the expenses of Rs. 4,000 for pay at 
drivers and cleaners of 30 jeeps and ope buick car? 

(b) Did the respondent No. 1 incur expenses of Rs. 36,000 for petrol and 
Rs, 3,000 for Mobil-oil used between 13th January 1962 and 28th 
February 1962? 

If so, have these expenses not been shown in the Election Expenses Return 
of the respondent No. 1? What would be its effect? 

(27) Did the respondent No. 1 incur expenses of Rs. 4,000 for travelling 

and other purposes of his 20 salaried employees between 13th Janu- 
ary 1962 and 28th February 1962? If so, have these expenses not been 
shown in his return of election Expenses? What would be its effect? 

(28) (a) Whether the respondent No. 1 held election meetings in Jhunjhunu 

parliamentary constituency on different dates from 19th January 
1962 to 19th February 1962 at places mentioned in para 14(g) (i) of 
the election petition? If so, whether the respondent No. 1 incurred 
expenses of Rs. 10,000 for such meetings. 

(b) Have these expenses not been shown In the Return of Election 
Expenses and what would be its effect on the election? 

(29) (a) Did Shri Morarji Desai come to sponsor the cause of election of 

respondent No. 1 and did the respondent No, 1 arrange meetings for 
Shri Morarji Desai, at Nawalgarh, Mandawa, Jhunjhunu and Bissau? 

(b) Did the respondent No. 1 incur the expenses for the said meetings and 
feeding of Shri Morarji Desai and his party amounting to Rs. 5,000? 

If so, have these expenses not been shown in the election expenses return 
and what would be Its effect? 

(SO) Was the respondent No. 1 running two messes at Jhunjhunu and Nawal- 
garh towns from 29th January 1962 and he incurred expenses of 
Rs. 12,000 on both those messes upto 28th February 1962? If so, 
have these expenses not been shown in the election expenses return 
and what would be Its effect on the election? 

(11) Whether the petition does not disclose a cause of action even after 
the amendments made in the election petition so far with respect to 
the the corrupt practices set out in Paras 14(b), 14(c), 24(d)(1) 

14(d) (ii), 14(d) (hi), 14(e), 14(f) (il) and 14(h)? If so, what is its 
effect? 

(32) Did the respondent No, 2 incur expenses for contesting the parliamen- 

tary and assembly elections seats more than Rs. 25,000? If so Is ft 
against law and amounts to a corrupt practice? What would be its 
effect? 

(33) Did the respondent No. 2 show more expenses for his assembly elec- 

tion than actually incurred and less for the parliamentary seat? If 
so, what was the amount incurred for parliamentary election? What 
would be the effect of this? 

(14) Did the respondent No. 2 incur expenses as stated in para 3 and its sub- 
paras of the recrimination application Bled by the respondent No. 1? 
Have these expenses not been shown in the election expenses Return 
of the respondent No. 2? If so, what would be its effect? 

(36) Did the respondent No. 2 Incur the expenses as mentioned in para No. 
4 and its sub-paras of the recrimination? If so, what would be Its 
effect? 

(36) Did the respondent No. 2 commit the acts of bribery as contained in 

para No. 4 of the recrimination application? If so, what would be 
its effect? 

(37) Is the recrimination petition not entertainable as it was not presented 

to the authority entitled to receive it? If so, what would be its 
effect? 

(J8) To what relief the parties are entitled? 



35o» 


icc, Jtui)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24, 1966/PAUSA 3, 1888 


Of the above issues No. 1 to 9 have been already disposed of by this Tribunal. 
Issue No, 1 was not contested, while issues No. 2 and 4 are based on the pre- 
liminary objections of Respondent No. 1 about limitation and allegations in paras 
No. 12 and 13 being inconsistent with the relief asked for. These have been 
decided on 16lh December 1963. 

The issues No. 3, 6, 6, 7, 8 and 9 relate to rejection of Balji’s nomination 
.paper. These have been also disposed of on 23rd December 1963 by this Tribunal, 
while deciding election Petition No. 295 of 1962. An appeal against the order of 
the Tribunal has been also rejected by the Hon'ble Rajasthan High Court vide it* 
judgment dated 26th August 1904 and reported in A.I.R. 196'S Rajasthan Page 23. 

Thus the issues from 1 to 9 have been already disposed of and only the issues 
under part II which are Nos, 10 to 32 will form subject matter of this judgment. 
The issues from 33 to 37 relate to points raised in recrimination application filed 
by Respondent No, 1 and reply thereto by Respondent No. 2 are also covered in 
this Judgment. 

Finding of Issue No. 10 

This Issue relate* to para 13(1) of the petition. The petitioner has alleged 

that on 26th February 1962 counting commenced at Police Lines, Jhunjhunu 
under the tents. Ther e were 90 ballot boxes which were placed on 90 tables. 
No sooner counting commenced there were heavy rains followed by hailstorm. 
Thus the ballot papers got wet and ink sprinkled on the ballot papers, besides, 
there were also ink marks by mishandling of the ballot papers. Further the 
ballot papers were collected haphazardly in great hurry. These ballot paper* 
because of rains had to be carried inside the rooms but they were neither placed 
in the ballot boxes nor duly sealed, thus there was clear contravention of rule 9(> 
of the Conduct of Election Rules, 1901 (hereinafter to be referred as Rules). 
Since the ballot papers were left in possession of the counting parties, the agent* 
of respondent No. 1 manipulated and spoiled the votes cast in favour of respondent 
_No. 2 which were about 10,000 In number, and later on rejected. It Is further 
urged that there were 5,000 ballot papers which were plain, had got Ink mark* 
but were illegally counted in favour of respondent No. 1. Thus there was non- 
compliance of Act and Rules, by the Returning Officer which materially affected 
the result of election. 

It has been further urged that respondent No. 1 has not denied the fact that 
there were rains and the ballot papers were removed from the tents to the room*. 
In this connection attention has been drawn to the statement of the Returning 
Officer Shrl V. I. Rajagopal, the then Collector, Jhunjhunu to show that his replies 
are non-committal in nature, while special reference has been made to his replie* 
to questions No. 16 and No. 17. On behalf of respondent No. 1 it has been urged 
that there is no evidence on record from the petitioner’s side that ballot paper* 
were spoiled and that no evidence has been led by the petitioner to substantiate 
his allegations. 

I have gone through the evidence led by the parties on this point. The mo»t 
Important witness which could be from petitioner’s side is P.W. 78 Amar slngh. 
He was election agent of Shri Raghuveersingh respondent No. 2. In his cross- 
examination he has admitted that during the counting and after, he did not see 
anyone committing any mischief although he had his own doubts. This shows that 
the witness was very vigilant but could not And any mischief being committed. 
The next Important witness Is Durgasingh P.W. 44. He was also an election agent 
who has deposed that he saw many irregularities being committed but did not 
make any complaint. It may seem strange that Amarsingh who had certain doubt* 
about the manipulations being committed in the ballot papers while Durgasingh 
who noted other Irregularities, but both remained silent and did not bring these t* 
the notice of the Returning Officer. This plainly shows that if there had been any 
manipulations or Irregularities, they would have surely brought to the notice of th* 
Returning Officer. As for other witnesses examined by the petitioner they ar* 
Ghaslram P.W. 11, Shriram P.W. 45 and Ramswroop P.W 64. Gbasiram P.W. 11 
savs that he did not see any Irregularity being committed during the counting. 
Shriram P.W. 45 also does not make mention of any Irregularity. As for the 
evidence of R'amswroop P.W. 64 It is quite vague and In no way proves the peti- 
tioner's contention more so, in his cross-examination he has admitted that he 
receives pension from respondent No, 2 and thus he is an Interested witness. 

It may be mentioned that during the trial of this petition an application wa* 
presented by the petitioner on 22nd February, 1964 under rule 93 for the scrutiny 
and inspection of ballot papers. The Tribunal allowed this application and the 



3510 1Hl CAZKTTI 07 INDIA: DAOMBEJL 24, 1966/PAUSA 3, 1888 


[Paht IX— 


scrutiny and inspection before the Tribunal continued from petitioner’s side for 
•bout a week commencing from 23rd March 1964. But it may be signiilcantly 
mentioned that not a single ballot paper could be pointed which bad either been 
spoiled or which was though blank but ink marks were made upon it and thus, 
•ounted in favour of respondent No. l. 

Now coming to the replies to the question Nos. 10 and 17 in the statement of 
Shri Rajagopal, Returning Officer, as referred to by the petitioner. The Returning. 
Officer has stated that the ballot papers were removed in the minimum time pos- 
sible and that he does not remember whether they were sealed or not. But when 
his statement as a whole is read, it may appear that in his reply to question 18 he 
has deposed that the agents of the parties were present on the spot and none of 
them complained or drew his attention or any of the Assistant Returning Officers 
that any ballot paper had got spoilt by getting wet or otherwise. From the above 
it would apoear that the petitioner has failed to prove that 10,000 ballot papers 
cast in favour of respondent No. 2, were spoilt and that 6,000 ballot papers cast in 
favour of respondent No. 1 bad got ink marks and wer e illegally or improperly 
counted in favour of respondent No. 1. The issue i* accordingly decided against 
the petitioner. 

finding of istus No. 11 

This issue relate* to par* No, 13(111 of the petition. It 1» a part of Issue No. 10„ 
The burden of this issue is also on the petitioner. It is urged on behalf of the 
petitioner that thousands of votes which had been cast in favour of respondents 
No, 2 and No. 3 were Improperly rejected. The number of votes rejected, a* 
alleged in the petition is 12352. As already stated that on on application by the 
petitioner the Tribunal allowed inspection and scrutiny which continued for a'-out 
a week from 23rd March 1964, but the petitioner failed to point out a sing e ballot 
paper which wai Improperly rejected, the issue is accordingly decided against ^he- 
petitioner. 

findino of issue No. 12 

This issue relates to para No. 13(111) of the petition. It ha» been urged by the 
petitioner that 10,000 votes cast in favour of respondent No. 1 were invalid and 
uhould have been rejected and tnis materially ailected the result of th e election. 
In this connection one has to see whether out of the 81,051 Votes cast In favour of 
respondent No. 1, 10,000 votes were really invalid and should have been rejected. 
In this connection learned counsel for tn e petitioner has relied on the statement 
•f Durgasingn P.W. 44 and I have gone through bis statement, In his examinatlon- 
in-chief he has deposed that ho was the counting agent of respondent No. 2 (Th. 
Raghuvecrsingh) and was present on the day of counting till 5.30 p.m. He has 
deposed that some of the ballot papers cast in favour of respondent No, l bearing 
double marks which ought to have been rejected by the counting parties were 
treated as valid, Similarly ballot papers bearing the cross for Th. Raffiuveersingh 
respondent No. 2 were included in the bundles of ballot papers of Shri Murarka 
respondent No.’ 1. The witness has a. so relerred to the number of ballot papers of 
respondent No. 1 bearing double marks which were 650, besides 350 ballot papers 
which were cast In favour of Th, Raghuvecrsingh respondent No. 2 were counted 
In favour of Shri Murarka respondent No. 1. But In bis cross-examination the 
witness has admitted that in spite of all this he did not mention about these 
Irregularities to Shri Azhar Hussain agent of respondent No. 2 nor brought to the 
notice of other officers who were present at the time of counting. As for the 
number of ballot papers referred to above he admits that be did not actually 
count them but had given the approximate number, The witness also failed tp 
mention the polling station, the place and the village when these ballot papers 
were cast This show* that the statement of the witness Is quite vague. It will 
thus appear out of the twenty two coun-'ing agents of respondent No. 2. only one 
could be produced as a wltne«s, who says about the irregularities being committed 
during the counting. But surprisingly enough this witness also state-- that he 
mentioned about these Irregularities to Azhar Hussain agent of respondent No. 2 
three or four days after the election result had been announced. It may appear 
•trange that the witness who according to his own version had seen the irregul- 
arities being committed did neither mention to Azhar Hussain nor anv other scent 
ef respondent No, 2 who were present during the counting. In the concluding part 
•f his cross-examination he has given out that the petitioner Is driver of Th. 
Raghuvecrsingh respondent No. 2. The petitioner has failed to discharge the 
burden upon him and the Issue Is decided accordingly. 



s«c, ?(!.)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER. 24, 1966/PAL3A 3, 1888 


35 “ 


Finding of issue No, 13 

This issue relate to para No. 13(iv) of the petition. It is urged by the petitioner 
that the authorities incharge of the counting, improperly placed about 5,00U ballot 
papers in favour of respondent No, 1 which the .Returning Officer a-*0 counted in 
favour of respondent No. 1, thus it materially allected the result of election. Th» 
learned counsel for the petitioner has relied on the statement of two witnesses 
Ghaslram P.W. 11 and Shriram P.W, 45. I have closely gone through the state- 
ments of both the witnesses. Ghasiram P.W. 11 no where deposes that 5,000 votes 
cast In favour of respondent No. 2 were Improperly placed in the bundle of the 
ballot papers cast in favour of respondent No. 1. In his examination-in-chicf be 
states that when it began to rain, counting was suspended for some time, th* 
ba.lot papers were neither placed in the boxes nor they were sealed. But he admit* 
that he did not make any complaint in the tnalter to anybody. It may seem 
quite unnatural that witness Ghasiram who was himself a candidate for election 
•nd is respondent No. 3, and had secured 71,560 votes, should have remained in- 
different to irregularities in counting and did not make any complaint about them 
to the Returning Officer or his assistants. It also appears from his statement that 
he told about these irregularities to his agent Shri Vishnudutt and asked him to 
make complaint in the matter but he does not know whether any complaint was 
made or not. Anyway from the statement of this witness it is not proved that 
5.UUU voles which had been cast in favour of respondent No. 2 had been improper- 
ly placed in the bundles of votes cast in favour of respondent No. 1. 

Coming to the statement of Shriram P.W. 45, he has deposed that when the 
counting had been stopped for some time, the boxes were not sealed but in his 
cross-examination he says that he had brought tile irregularities committed by 
counting authorities to the notice of respondent No, 2 Th. Raghuveersingh. The 
witness has admitted that the ballot papers of Th. Raghuveersingh had been placed 
in the bundles of the ballot papers cast in favour of other candidates but he could 
neither mention the number of ballot papers nor he could say about the bundle of 
the ballot papers or the name of the Candida lea. It may be also mentioned that the 
witness has admitted that he was in service of Thikana Bissau from 11)38 to 1955 
■nd served there in the capacity of Tehsildar and is now drawing pension from 
Th. Raghuveersingh. There is not a single witness from petitioner’s side who could 
prove that 5,000 ballot papers of respondent No. 2 had been improperly placed in 
the bundles of ballot papers of respondent No. 1. On a reading of the statement of 
both the witnesses It Is crystal clear that both are interested witnesses. They are 
under the influence of respondent. No. 2 and thus what they had deposed in ex- 
amination-in-chief was shaken m their cross-examination. The petitioner has failed 
to discharge the burden of tho issue which is decided against him. 

Finding of issue No. 14 

This issue relates to para No. 13(v) of the petition. Th e petitioner has urged 
that 5000 votes cast in favour of respondent No. 2 were improperly mixed with the 
votes of respondent No. 3 and respondent No. 6 and were counted in their favour, 
This materially affected the result of the election. In olher words by this improper 
mixing of votes respondent No. 2 got 5000 votes less than respondent No. 1, which 
were actually casi, in his favour. The learned counsel for the respondent has relied 
on the statements of witnesses P.W. 11, and P.W 45. As already stated that I have 
perused the statement of these witnesses and there Is nothing to show that 5000 
votes cast In favour of respondent No. 2 were improperly mixed with the votes 
cast In favour of respondents No 3 and 9 and thus the petitioner has failed to 
prove the allegation, 

Lastly before concluding my findings on issues No. 10 to 14, which are based on 
the allegations for Improper counting and mishandling of the ballot papers, I may 
stress that the witnesses have fai ed to prove the mishandling of ballot papers and 
irregularities in the counting of the votes. Besides the election agents as well as 
counting agents of the respondent No. 2 have clearly admitted that they did not 
either make any complaint at the material time or made a request to the authorities 
for rechecking and scrutinizing of ballot papers alleged to have been mishandled. 
Thus the only inference deduceable from all this is that the allegation is an after 
thought otherwise it would have been brought to the notice of the authorities con- 
cerned. In this connection I may also refer to the Punjab Legislature Council 
Ferozepur case (M.K.) Pir Akbar All Ps. Chaudhri Nailb Uddin P 80. which ha* 
been considered by the Election Tribunal, Alwar in case Election Petition No 460 
of 1957— Raja Mansingh & others Vs. Shrl Abid All & another [reported in Rajas- 
than Gazette dated 2nd July, 1959 Part 5(d) Page 147 (107)]. In the above referred 



[Part II— 


3512 A HE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24 , I966/PAUSA 8, 18SS 


Punjab Legislative Council case it has been held that a failure of the petitioner and 
his agents to bring to the notice of the Presiding Officer the commission of a 
corrupt practice at the time is a dear indication of the falsity of the evidence. 
Further it may also be significantly pointed, that it is the duty of the petitioner 
to bring to the notice of the Returning Officer at the time of the counting of vote* 
if he thinks that there is some mishandling of the votes or that irregularities are 
committed. The petitioner has faiied to discharge the onus about the irregularities 
or mishandling of the ballot papers and 1 And the issue accordingly. 

Finding of issue No. 15 

Issues No. 15 to 20 deal with regard to the irregularities about change of polling 
stations without due notice and the use of unauthorised ballot papers at the polling. 

Issue No. 15 relates to the para No. 13(vi) of the petition. This issue is sub- 
divided in seven parts i.e. (a) to (g), of these issue No. 15(a) is the main issue and 
the determination of the rest of the issues is based on the finding of issue 
No. 15(a): — 

It has been urged on behalf of the petitioner that the Returning Officer, 
Jhunjhunu Parliamentary Constituency had notified list of polling stations in the 
official gazette as required u/s 85 of the Act, According to the notification the 
voters of the electoral roll part No. 33 of the Gudha Assembly Constituency were 
to cast their votes at polling station No. 5 situated in Pukhta' Dharamsala Bhorkl 
while the voters of electoral roll part 34 were to cast their votes at polling station 
No. 6 which was situated at Gllon-ki-Dhani in Gudha Constituency. But the 
Returning Officer without regard to the provisions of the Act and Rules made a 
change at the last moment and allowed the voters of electoral roll part No. 33 to 
cast their votes at polling station No. 6 instead of polling station No. B and also 
asked the voters of part No. 34 to cast their votes at polling station No. 5 Instead 
of polling station No. 6. Thus by this change Instead of 910 votes only 450 vote* 
were cast at polling station No. 5, while at polling station No. 6 only 536 votes 
were cast as against 887. Thus at both the polling stations only 986 votes were 
cast and 820 voters were deprived of their right of franchise. In support of this 
plea the petitioner has examined 7 witnesses which are Madansingh P.W. 18, 
Ramlal P.W. 19, Ghlsaram P.W. 54, Mehtabslngh P.W. 56, Badri Prasad P.W: 57, 
Laisingh P.W. 58 and Ridmalsingh P.W. 77. These witnesses have been adduced to 
■prove that they were voters but could not exercise their right of franchise because 
■of the change of the polling stations at the last moment. 

Before I may discuss the evidence produced by the petitioner I first deal with 
the legal aspect of the matter. The learned counsel for the petitioner in this con- 
nection has referred to A.I.R. 1959 Assam 128 wherein it has been held that where 
an election is held at a polling station, which was not published as directed by the 
Election Commission, it is in substance a non-compliance with the provisions of 
section 25 of the Act. And if the polling station is proved to have been shifted 
after the publication of the list of the polling centres from one place to another, 
there Is non-compliance of the provisions of section 57 of the Act. It has been 
further provided that In such a case the election of the returned candidate will be 
declared void It the non-compliance with the provisions of the Act or the Rules or 
orders made thereunder has materially affected the result of th e election. 

In the first place assuming that 812 voters failed to exercise their 
right of franchise simply due to change of polling station, and that 
all these would have voted for the respondent No. 2, even then it would not 
have materially affected the result of election because respondent No. 1 secured 
3460 votes more than respondent No. 2. As for the Assam citation relied upon by 
the learned counsel for the petitioner I may point out that it has no application 
to the circumstances of the present case. The mere argument that the remaining 
voters would have also voted in favour of particular candidate is nothing but 
surmise and such surmises cannot be taken as materially affecting the result of 
election. It may be significantly remarked that in the Assam case there was change 
of polling station from one village to the other at an appreciable distance and even 
outside the constituency and the voters could not know the place where they were 
to cast their votes. In the present case only places of polling stations In the same 
village was changed and which were not at a great distance and the voters could 
easily know the changed Dolling station in the small village. Both Bhorki and 
Gllon-kl-Dhani, the two villages where a change had been made in place of polling 
Nation are very small villages and the voters could easily cast their votes at the 
changed polling stations. 

Now coming to the actual evidence adduced on behalf of the petitioner. Of 
the eight witnesses examined, seven are residents of Bhorki. There the voters of 



sat . ( , Cj , OF l . . . -24 , o, 


electoral roll part No. 33 were to cast their votes at polling station No. 5, Two- 
witnesses P. W. 18 Mad an Singh and P. W. 19 Ramlal have deposed that they had 
cast their votes at the changed polling station Gilon-ki-Dhanl. Not only this but 
even tneir iarnuv members had also cast their votes. P. W, 55 Risalsingh and 
P. W. 5(i Mehiabsingh have stated that they did not cast their votes but their family 
members had cast their votes. P. W. 54 Ghisaram has also admitted that all the 
voters ol the village belonging to Bhorki had gone to Gllon-ki-Dhani the changed 
polling station and had cast their votes. From a bare reference of the statements 
of the above witnesses it will transpire that inspite of the change of the polling 
station, the voters exercised their right of franchise. 

The Petitioner in order to prove his contention that 812 voters were deprived 
of the right of franchise should have produced such witnesses who could have- 
deposed that as a result of the change in polling stations they were deprived of 
their right of franchise. From a perusal of the statements of the abov e witnesses 
it will appear that even such witnesses who did not cast their votes for one reason 
or other, their family members inspite of the change in polling station did exercise 
their right of franchise. 

It may further be mentioned that not a single witness has appeared in the 
witness box who could say that simply as a result of change of polling station* 
he failed to cast his vote. As 1 have already mentioned that taking the petitioner’s 
case at its best and assuming that 812 voters were deprived of their right of 
franchise, the number of voters so deprived, does not materially affect the result 
of election and, as such, issues No. 15(a) to 15(g) are decided against the petitioner. 

Finding of issue No. 10 

This issue relates to para No. I3(vii) of the petition. It has been urged on 
behalf of the petitioner that in Khetrl Assembly Constituency one polling station 
was notified at village Jasrapur in Thanmal Chunnilal Dharamsala but later on 
the polling station was changed to some other Dharamsala in the same village. 
The voters at this place were 894 but no voting was made and the voters could 
not cast their votes. Had there been no change in the polling station, 894 votes 
would have cast In favour of respondent No. 2. But no evidence has been led by 
the petitioner in support of this contention. As I have already pointed out in my 
finding of issue No. 15, that the allegation of the kind that voters deprived of the 
right of franchise would have also voted in favour of a particular candidate is. 
nothing but a surmise and such surmises are untenable and devoid of any force. 
There is also no corroboration on record that by change in the polling station in 
village Jasrapur votes could not be cast. It may also be pointed that Jasrapur is 
a small village and change of polling station in the very village from one Dharam- 
aala to another cannot materially i Sect the casting of the votes. The issue is, 
therefore, found against the petitioner. 

Finding of issue No. 17 

This issue is based on para No. 13(vli)(b) of the petition. The petitioner’s- 
contention Is that in Khetri Assembly Constituency in Babai village poking station 
No. 29 was originally in Dharamsala Tiwarlyan but It was changed to some other 
place. The number of voters who were to cast ihelr votes at this place was 900 
and if there had been no change of the polling station, all he 900 voters would, 
have cast, their votes but on.y 510 persons cast their votes while 490 were de- 
prived of their right ol franchise. 

Similarly ir\ Mandawa Assembly Constituency in Bissau a polling station was 
originally notified in Islamia Madarsa but later changed to Boitram-kl-Dharamsala. 
There were 950 voters who were to cast their votes at this polling station but. 
because of the change only 556 voters could exercise their right of franchise and 
394 voters were deprived of It. Thus at both the polling stations number of voters 
who could not exercise their right of franchise was 884. The petitioner did not 
examine any witness to show that as a result of change of both the polling stations, 
884 voters could not cast their votes. It is a mere conjecture that if the voters had 
■cast their votes, they would have cast In favour of respondent No, 2. The- 
issue is accordingly decided against the petitioner. 

Finding of issue No. 18 

This issue relates to para 13(vlli) of the petition. The petitioner’s contention, 
is that unauthorised ballot papers were used at two polling stations. In Gudha. 
Assembly Constituteney at Kakrana polling station No. 24 ballot papers No. 596981. 



4 


. 24, , '/Pi l l 9 , [Part 11 — 


to 597100 were unauthorised. While in Mandawa Assembly Constituency at 
Mandawa polling station No. 53 the ballot papers from numbers 597881 to 598000 
were also unauthorised. Thus the total 240 votes were void. In this connection 
reference has been made of rule 56(ii)(g) but there is no evidence whatsoever on 
this point. Assuming that the ballot papers were unauthorised, but it has not been 
shown that those ballot papers If had not been declared void, would have been 
cast in favour of respondent No. 2. The petitioner’s contention that these votes 
would have been cast in favour of respondent No. 2 is merely a conjecture and • 
guess work for which there is no place, the issue is accordingly found againBt the 
petitioner. 

Finding of issue No. 19 

This issue relates to para No, 13 (ix) of the petition but the learned counsel for 
the petitioner did not press this issue during the course of arguments and, as such 
it is found against the petitioner. 

Finding of issue No. 20 

This issue relates to para No, 13(x) of the petition. The petitioner’s contention 
is that the Returning Officer did not issue any notice to the Government employees 
of Jhunjhunu Parliamentary constituency, who were posted on election duty. The 
number of such voters on election duty was 1491 who were working in 231 parties. 
It Is urged that without the issue of such notice all these voters were deprived of 
their right of franchise. Had a notice been issued to them, they would have 
■exercised their right of franchise by postal ballots. In this connection I may refer 
to rule 20 of the Conduct of Election Rules, which provides that a voter who is on 
election duty if he wards to exercise his right of franchise he should send an appli- 
cation as prescribed in form No. 12 to the Returning Officer. On receipt of such 
application in the prescribed form, If the Returning Officer is satisfied that the 
applicant is a voter and that he has been posted on election duty, then a ballot 
paper will he issued to him. But here the petitioner could not point out the 
name of a single Government employee out of the 1491 persons posted on election 
dutv who applied in the prescribed form No. 12 and inspite of such application, 
ballot paper was not issued to him. It was the duty of the persons posted on 
election duty to apply for the issue of ballot papers in the prescribed form and. 
as such, no responsibility can be laid on the Returning Officer. This issue is ac- 
cordingly decided against the petitioner. 

Finding of issue No. 21 

This issue relates to allegations made in para No. I3(xi) of the petition. It 
has been urged by the petitioner that at the close of polls every Presiding Officer 
has to prepare a ballot paper account in form No, IS which he has to enclose In 
a separate cover with the concerned ballot papers which are sent in accordance 
with rule 45. After the ballot papers are counted, the ballot papers account is 
signed by the Returning Officer as well as the counting supervisors. But in the 
following cases the form No. lfl do not bear the signature of the counting super- 
- visors and in some cases do not bear even the signatures of Returning Officer: — 

1. Polling Station No. 44 Chirawa — Pilani Assembly Constituency 

2. Polling Station No. 24 Dhol Khedu — Gudha Assembly Constituency 

3. Polling Station No. 13 Kakrnna— Gudha Assembly Constituency. Form No. 

15 of the above polling stations do not bear the signature of the Presid- 
ing Officers 

4 . Form No. 16 of polling station No. 11 of Gudha Assembly Constituency 

seems to have been tampered with 

5. Form No. 18 of Polling Stations No. 53 and 54 of Khetri Assembly Cons- 

tituency do not bear the signatures of Counting Supervisors. 

6. Form No. 16 of Polling Station No. 53 of Surajgarh Assembly Constituency 

do not bear the signature of Counting Supervisor, 

7. Form No. 16 of Polling Station No. 22, Nawalgarh Assembly Constituency 

do not bear signature of the Returning Officer 

8. Form No. 16 of Polling station No. 5 of Gudha Assembly Constituency 

replaced by a hand-written form. 

It has been further urged that since the signatures of the counting supervisor* 
■ or the Returning Officer were not made on form No. 16 of polling station No. 13 
.and No. 24 of Gudha Assembly Constituency they seem to have been tampered with 



bee. 3(n)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24, I966/F\iJS k 8 , 1688 31515 


which follows that the result sheets have been also tampered with. It has bee* 
pointed out that at the commencement 01 the counting oi the votes of the Jhun- 
jhunu Parliamentary Constituency when b/ulot papers were opened, respondent 
No. 2 or his agents who were present at the spot, did not make such complaint. 
Further by a mere omission of signatures on ballot papers account, It cannot be 
inferred that the account or result sheets were at all tampered with. It will be 
appreciated that In a Parliamentary Constituency where the number of pollln* 
stations runs to 2.11, an omission of signatures on ballot papers account of 0 or 
7 polling stations is not material, more so when It was not reported to the Return- 
ing Officer or Counting Supervisor. The Issue is, therefore, decided against the 
petitioner. 

Finding 0 } issue No, 22(a) and No. 23 

These issues relate to para No. 13(xii) of the petition. It has been urged on 
behalf of the petitioner that counting of ballot papers of Jhunjhunu Parliamentary 
Constituency commenced at Jhunjhunu on 26th February, 1962 which continued 
upto 11 p.m., it then again commenced on 27th February at 9 o.m. It is urged 
that during the suspension of counting the ballot papers were not sealed as pro- 
vided by rule 60 and thus there was a tampering of ballot papers In favour of 
respondent No. 1. Again on 28th February the Returning Officer suspended and 
adjourned the counting at 5 a.m. for 5 hours It is further urged that 
during the 5 hours when the counting was suspended and when the election agents 
of respondent Nos. 2 to 6 had - 'ome from the counting place, 6000 doubtful ballot 
papers were tampered with in favour of respondent No. 1. 


Rule 60 provides that the Returning Officer shall as far as practicable proceed 
continuously with the counting In case he has to suspend counting he will keep 
the ballot papers and other papers packed and sealed with hi 3 own seal and seals 
of such candidates and elction agents as desire to affix their own sealB. It appear* 
that there could be no objection for suspending the counting but what the peti- 
tioner objects is that ballot papers had been tampered with during the period o4 
suspension of counting both on 26th and 28th February 1902. In this connection. 
I may refer to the statement of P.W. 76 Amarsingh. He has deposed that except 
that there was no seal on the ballot papers there was no other defect, In his cross- 
examination he further deposed that he did not see anyone making any mischief 
or committing any malpractice or tampering with the ballot papers. Ghaslram 
P.W. 11 Is also an important witness as he himself was a candidate from Jhunjhunu 
Parliamentary constituency. He says that he did not see that any wrong had hap- 
pened. The statements of Shri Ram P.W. 45 and Ramswroop P.W. 64 do not throw 
any light on the matter. Durgasingh P.W. 44 says that he saw various wronge 
being done but did not make any complaint. Similarly Ramswroop P.W 64 wh* 
was also a counting agent of respondent No. 2 admits that he did not mention 
of the wrongs f o the Returnin' 1 Officer or the Assistant Returning Officers present 
on the spot. All these allegations simply show that they are after thought and 
the petitioner has failed to substantiate them. The issue Is accordingly decided 
against the petitioner. 


Finding of issue No 24 


Before I deal with Issue No. 24 It is worthwhile to give an analysis of the paras 
of the petition on which issues Nos 24 to 29 are based, Para No. 14 comprises of 
eight sub-paragraphs on which nine issues commencing from Nos. 24 to 52 have bee* 
framed. Of the nine Issues issues Nos. 24. 26. 26. 28 a n d 29 have been split in 
further aub-lssues. Thus Issue No. 24 is classified Into 4 issues (a) to (d). Issue 
"No. 25 classified into 3 issues (a) to (c), issue No. 26 has two parts (a) and (b) 
issue No, 28 has two parts (a) and (b), again Issue No. 29 is split In two parte 
(a) and (b). All the above mentioned issues refer to one or other corrupt 
practices. 

Now coming to the finding with regard to these issues, I may refer to sectlo* 
100 of the Act which deals wifh grounds on the hnsls of which an election may be 
•declared void, The relevant portion of section 100 is as under:- — 

“Section 100 — Grounds for declaring election to be void: — 

(1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2) if the Tribunal is of 
opinion — 

(a) ... 



. 24, I9C6/PAUSA 8, 1*88 


[Part If— 


(b) that any corrupt practice has been committed by a returned candi- 

date or his election agent or by any other person with the consent 
of a returned candidate ot his election agent; 

(c) ... 

(d) ... 

the Tribunal shall declare the election of the returned candidate to be 
void.” 

Further the corrupt practices are detailed in section 123 of the Act. These 
corrupt practices have been classified In 7 major heads some of these are referred 
In the petition before this Tribunal. As for discharge of burden of proof about the- 
commitment of corrupt practice, It may be mentioned that it Is well-settled that 
an enquiry Into the allegations about the commission of corrupt practices like those 
enumerated in section 123 of Act 1951, is of a quasi criminal nature and the evi- 
dence required to prove such allegations does not fall short of the standard requited 
to prove a criminal charge. The onus lies on the petitioner to prove such allega- 
tions of corrupt practices made by him and in case of doubt the benefit goes to>the- 
respondent as it goes to an accused in a criminal trial. It is a rule of prudence 
which is well-settled by this time that the evidence of an accomplice being tainted' 
generally requires corroboration before it is acted upon and a finding in favour of 
any corrupt practice is given bv a Tribunal. In this connection I may refer to an 
important ruling of the Rajasthan High Court reported in A.I.R, 1964 (1904) Raj. 
P.21 wherein it has been held that: — 

“When 1 a candidate for election, either to the State Legislature or the Parlia- 
ment, is charged with the commission of any corrupt practice, the' 
charge is almost in all respects similar to a criminal charge as the law 
prescribes severe punishment for it. Hence the criterion to assess 
the evidence must also> be the same as in criminal case and the evi- 
dence must establish the charges conclusively beyond all reasonable 
doubt.” 

All the High Courts are at one on this principle that the burden to prove 
corrupt practices on the person who alleges it and in this connection I may refer 
to A.I.R. 1964 M-P- Page 92/93 wherein it has been laid down that: — 

“It is now firmly settled that the burden of establishing a corrupt practice 
is On the person alleging it and that it must be established beyond' 
reasonable doubt by clear and positive evidence. A conclusion on a 
charge of corrupt practice cannot be based on mere conjectures or 
surmises which cannot take the place of legal evidence.” 

The same principle has been reiterated in E.L.R. 22 Page 249 In more unequivocal 
terms: — 

“The onus of proving corrupt practices lies on those who assert their com- 
mission and they have to be established beyond the possibility of a 
reasonable doubt, The evidence in their support need not necessarily 
' be direct, but it is well settled that circumstantial evidence and the 
inference deducible the^cPom must be such os to lead to the only 
reasonable conclusion of the commission of the corrupt practices 
alleged. No conjecture or surmise, however, attractive or even plau- 
sible can take the place of proof, and if two equally reasonable infer- 
ences or conclusions are possible, one innocent and the other guilty, 
the former should nomarlly prevail.” 

Again in dealing with the allegations by the Election Tribunal about the com- 
mission of c,,rrupt practices I may further refer to the pronouncement of Supreme 
Court reported in A.I R. 1966 S.C. Page 773 wherein their Lordships of the Supreme 
Court have held that: — 

“Where an Election Tribunal deals with allegations about the commission 
of corrupt practices by a returned candidate, the charges framed are 
in the nature of quasi-criminal charges. The proof of the charge has 
a double consequence; the election of the returned candidate Is set 
aside and he i icu-red subseiunt disqualification as well. Therefore, 
when a charge of this kind is framed aaginst the returned candidate, 
it has to be proved satisfactorily.” 

I need not refer to other citations which lay down the same principle about 
discharge of burden of proof with regard to corrupt practices but it has to be 



See. I(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21. 1966/PAU3A 8 , 1888 3517 


mentioned that the person alleging corrupt practices should prove it beyond reason- 
able doubt and cannot be allowed to take advantage of the weakness of the 
opposite party. It is in the context of the above settled principle of law that I 
propose to proceed with the findings of the issues: — 

Finding of issue No. 24(a) 

This Issue No. 24(a) relates to the para No. 14(b) of the petition. It is alleged 
by too petitioner that respondent No. 1 has committed corrupt practices of incurring 
oc authorising expenses in contravention of section 67 of the Act between the date 
of notification calling the election i.e. 13th January 1962 and the date of declaration 
o£ the election result which was 28th February 1862. In this connection It has 
been urged that respondent No. 1 paid Rs. 5,000 to each congress candidate of the 
Rajasthan Legislative Assembly In Jhunjhunu Parliamentary Constituency for 
farthering the cause of his election for the parliamentary seat. It may be pointed 
that the Jhunjhunu parliamentary constituency consists of 8 Rajasthan Legislative 
A^embly constituencies and accordingly a sum of Rs. 40,000 1„ alleged to be paid 
by respondent No. 1 to all the 8 congress candidates of the Rajasthan Legislative 
Assembly but this amount has not been shown in the amount of election expenses 
and that it exceeds the prescribed limit of Rs. 25,000 permissible for parliamentary 
election. 

In support of the above allegations the petitioner has examined two witnesses 
Babulal P.W. 10 and Jagmalslng P.W. 70. Babulal P.W. 10 has deposed that 
respondent No. 1 had paid Rs. 5,000 to one Sheonathsing in Tlbra Guest House, 
.Jhunjhunu In his presence and had also told Sheonathsing that he had paid the 
similar amount to rest of the seven congress candidates of the Rajasthan Legisla- 
tive Assembly. The witness has deposed that when the amount was paid to 
Shenoathsingh, only respondent No. 1 and Shenoathsingh were present. He says that 
he had told this to other persons of his Mohalla but he does not actually remember 
their names. Jagmalsingh P.W, 70 has deposed that Ramnaraln. a congress candi- 
date for Mandawa constituency for Rajasthan Legislative Assembly, was told by 
respondent No. 1 that the canvassing In Mandawa Assembly Constituency had been 
very poor, whereupon Shri Ramnaraln told him that It was for lack of funds. At 
this respondent No. 1 paid Rs. 5.000 to Shrl Ramnaraln and when he pressed for more 
funds respondent No. I told him that similar amount he had paid to other congress 
candidates. Here it may be significantly pointed out that Babulal mentions the 
payment of Rs. 5,000 to Sheonath Singh and Jagmalslng refers the payment of the 
same amount to Ramnarain. But both of these whom amount was paid have not 
been examined by the petitioner. It was petitioner’s duty to produce the persons 
concerned whom the amount was paid. Babulal’s statement about payment of 
Rs. 5,000 is based on hearsay which is inadmissible in evidence and cannot be relied 
upon. The same is the case with respect to the statement of Jagmalslng P.W. 70 
which cannot be trusted as Ramnaraln who received the amount could have been 
the best witness. Lastly J mav q|sn '■•■■Per to the statement of Ridmalsingh petitioner 
on this point. In bis cross-examination he has deposed that respondent No. 1 did 
not pay Rs. 5,000 to any of the Congress candidates for assembly seats Individually 
or collectively in his presence. All that ha heard was from Babulal and nobody 
elae told him about It. He also says that he did not enquire about the date of 
payment dt Rs. 5,000 to Sheonathsing from Babulal nor enquired about the dates 
of payments to other persons, On a perusal of the statement of petitioner it will 
appear that his evidence la also based on hearsay as to what he heard from Babulal, 

It is worthy of note that with regard to the alleged payment of Rs. 5,000 to 
each of the congress candidate in eight Rajasthan Legislative Assembly constituen- 
cies only 2 witnesses have been produced to prove payment for only two Assembly 
Constituencies. Even that evidence, as I have already pointed out, is not at all 
helpful to the petitioner. The respondent No. 1 has denied making payment to any 
of the congress candidates. I am not disposed to palce any reliance on the testi- 
mony of the witnesses of the petitioner and thus the petitioner has failed to dis- 
charge the burden of proof of payment of Rs. 5,000 by respondent No. 1 to each of 
the eight congress candidates and the issue Is decided accordingly. 

Finding of issue No. 24(b) 

This Issue relates to para No. 14(c) of the petition. It has> been alleged by the 
petitioner that respondent No. 1 paid Rs, 1.000 to the Congress Party between 13th 
January, 1962 to 19th January, 1902. In this connection the learned counsel for the 
petitioner has argued that on respondent No. l’s own admission the payment of 
Ra. 1,000 is proved. I have closely gone through the statement of respondent No 1, 
who has denosed that along with bL apolinntlon for obtaining congress ticket he 
had deposited Rs. 3,000 but this amount was paid much earlier than 13th January, 



3518 1 HZ GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24, 1966/PAUSA 5, 1888 


[Part II- 


1982 and accordingly was not shown In the expenditure items. He has also deposed 
that he did not pay Rs. 1,000 between 13th to 19th January, 1962 and out of Rs. 3,000 
deposited along with the application, a sum of Rs. 2,500 will be refunded t D him. 
It will appear that there Is no evidence whatsoever produced by the petitioner to 
now that a sum of Rs. 1,000 was paid between 13th and 19th January, 1962. I may 
here also refer to the statement of Ridmalsing petitioner himself on this point. 
He says that Rs. 1,000 was not paid in his presence but he has heard in the market 
that respondent No. 1 has paid Rs. 1,000 to the Congress party. It may appear 
fantastic that the petitioner dees not remember the name of the person who had 
told him about the payment of Rs. 1,000. Such an evidence cannot for a moment 
stand the test of proof reqiured for discharging the onus which lies upon the peti- 
tioner, the issue is accordingly found in tho negative. 

Finding of issue No. 24(c) 

This Issue relates to para No. 14(d) oi the petition. It has been urged by the 
petitioner that respondent No. 1 purchased and procured not less than 30 brand 
new jeeps, two brand new station wagons for his election purpose. In support of 
this allegation the petitioner has examined 9 witnesses which are P.W. 5, P.W. 6, 
P.W. 8, PW. 9, P.W. 10. P.W. 11, P.W 14 P.W. 16, P.W: 67 and P.W, 77'. Before 
I deal with the evidence adduced by the petitioner I may refer to the relevant law 
regarding corrupt practices committed by respondent No. 1. Section 123 mentions 
the corrupt practices for the purpose of the Act, and sub-section '5 of the said 
section is as under: — 

"The hiring or procuring whether on payment or otherwise of any vehicle or 
vessel by a candidate or his election agent or by any other person 
(with the consent of a candidate or his election agent) for the con- 
veyance of any elector other than the candidate himself, the members 
of his family or his agent, to and from any polling station provided 
under section 25 of the Act or a place fixed under sub-section (i) of 
section 29 for the poll.” 

It will appear from the above that if the candidate cr his agent or any other 
person with the consent of a candidate or his election agent, hires or procures 
whether on payment or otherwise any vehicle for the conveyance of any elector to 
or from any polling station it has been held to be a corrupt practice. It may be 
pointed that under this sub-section the actual user of the vehicle or vessels for 
carrying electors is not a corrupt practice in itself but what is necessary to proye 
is that the procurement was made by the candidate or his agent or anybody else by 
their consent which is a corrupt practice. 

This issue refers to purhase and procurement. It is possible that one may not 
purchase vehicle but he may arrange procurement of the same. So far rurchase of 
vehicles is concerned, there is not an iota of evidence whatsoever that the vehicles 
were purchased by respondent No. 1. Even the petitioner nowhere mentions in Ills 
long statement that respondent No. 1 did ever purchase the vehicles referred to in 
paragraph No. 14(d) of the petition. 

Coming to the procurement of the vehicles I first take up the statement of 
Radheyshyam P.W. 5. He has deposed that there were 20 to 25 vehicles which he 
used to 'see standing at the house of respondent No, 1 in Nawalgarh and thus he 
inferred that these vehicles were used for election purpose. Further there is also 
no evidence as to from whom these vehicles were procured nor any particulars about 
the date when they were procured and places from where procured have been 
givn out. To take the petitioner’s case at Its best and assuming that 20 to 25 
vehicles used to stand at the house of respondent No. 1 but unless it is proved 
beyond doubt that these vehicles were procured by respondent No. 1 and that they 
were actually used for conveying electors to and from polling stations, such on 
evidence falls short of the actual standard of proof required for proving a corrupt 
practie. It has been urged on behalf of respondent No. 1 that the witness is pre- 
judiced against him. The reason being that the witness was a Munim of Gaddilal 
Seksaria who removed him from service but the witness believes that this removal 
was caused at his instance. But even if the witness may have been prejudiced, his 
evidence is difficult to believe. The next witness is Dr. B. S: Gupta P.W. 6. This 
witness has deposed that he used to go to see the patients at the house of respondent 
No, 1 when he saw about 20 to 25 vehicles standing at his house. On behalf of 
respondent No. 1 it has been argued that this witness is also an interested one be- 
cause there have been several civil & criminal cases pending in various courts 
between the witness at Naharsingh, who was President D.C.C. and was supporting 
the respondent No. 1 who was a congress candidate. But apart from the fact whe- 
ther the witness had been interested or not, his evidence is inconceivable as he 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24, I966/FAUSA 5, 1888 3519 


could not give out name of a single patient and the diagnosis of any one of the 
patients whom he treated at the house of respondent No. 1. A mere averment that 
the witness saw 20 to 25 vehicles at the house of respondent No. 1 does not carry 
conviction that they were all procured by respondent No. 1 and actually used for 
conveying electors. 


As for other witnesses, the statement of Habib Khan P.W. 8 is merely hear- 
say as his deposition is based on what he heard from other drivers and no reliance 
can be placed on his evidence. Shyamlai P.W. 9 is another witness. He says 
that there were about 30 to 40 vehicles but he failed to prove whether these 
vehicles were actually used for conveying electors to and from any polling 
stations. The statements of P.W. 10 Babulal, as well as P.W. 11 Ghasiram are 
also difficult to believe. Then there is the evidence of witnesses Durgashankar 
P.W. 14 and Hameshwar P.W. 15, both are drivers. P.W. 14 says that he used 
to drive the jeep of respondent No, 1. He has admitted that he is the member 
of Swfltantra party. P.W. 15 is Rameshwar, who alleges that he drived jeep of 
respondent No. 1 for one month. He further admits that he was also driver of 
the vehicle of one Surja Aheer which he drived for 4 years. But strangely enough 
he could give the number of respondent’s car which he drived only for a month 
but could not mention the number of the car of Surja Aheer which he drived 
for 4 years. Apart from these discrepancies both these witnesses have failed 
to substantiate that the vehicles were used for conveying electors. Bachansingh 
P.W. 16 is another witness. His knowledge about 20, 25 vehicles is based on the 
simple presumption that once when he had gone to see one Berisalsingh at Tibra 
Guest House, Jhunjhunu, than he saw these vehicles standing This Berisalsingh 
has been examined on commission by respondent No, 1 in rebuttal and he has 
deposed that he did not at all visit Jhunjhunu during the trriod Bachansingh 
alleges to have seen him at Tibra Guest Blouse, Jhunjhunu, Thus the statement 
of Bachansingh. who on his own 'admission is Secretary, Swatantra Party, does 
not carry conviction. The next witness is Shyamsunder P.W. 20. mentions 
that there were 8 to 10 jeeps while curiously enough Bhagirath P.W. 67 mentions 

that there was only one jeep. Lastly there is the statement of Ridmalsingh 

(P.W. 77) petitioner himself. He has clearly admitted that he does not know 

whom did the jeeps belong nor h e has any knowledge that they were taken 

on hire. In fact the witness has clearly admitted that he does not know whether 
the jeeps were procured by respondent No. 1 and who met their expenses. The 
witness has also admitted that he is in the service of respondent No. 2 and 
receives salary from him. 

On a careful study of the evidence regarding this issue I am of the view that 
the petitioner has utterly failed to prov c that 30 jeeps and 2 station wagons were 
purchased or procuredb y respondent No. 1. Mention may be made that during 
election contest it is common practice that the rival candidates and their agents 
always, keep a watch on the activities of one another, specially of such activities 
that may come under corrupt practices. Had 30 jeeps and 2 station wagons were 
at all procured by respondent No. 1 as alleged by the petitioner, it was quite 
easy for the petitioner to prove bv cogent facts but no such evidence; was forth- 
coming. Here I may significantly refer to E.L.R'. 20 Page 443, wherein it has 
been held that if an election is sought to be set aside on the ground of corrupt 
practice, it is the dutv of the petitioner to prove that ground affirmatively and 
for that purpose he has to relv first and last on the strength of bis evidence 
and not on the weakness of the evidence of respondent. Further it has been 
held that it is necessary to prove that the procurement was for the specific 
purpose us mentioned in sub-section (5) of section 123 of the Act for conveying 
electors to and from any polling station. In the instant ease mere sweeping 
references by a few witnesses here or there that there were 25 to 30 jeeps stand- 
ing at the residence of respondent No 1 or at the Guest House, do not inspire 
confidence especially when a corrupt practicp is to be established in all its 
material details, the issue is accordingly found against the petitioner. 

Finding of issue No. 24(d) 

This issue relates to para No. 14(d) of the petition. It has been also urged 
on petitioner’s behalf that respondent No, 1 used one old buick car and 10 hired 
jeeps for his election purpose. The learned counsel for the petitioner in this connec- 
tion has relied on the statements of his witnesses P W. 5, PW. 8 , P,W. 9, P.W.10. 
P.W. 11. P.W. 14, P.W, 15. PW. 16, P.W. 67 and P.W. 77, I have examined their 
evidence on record and it is worthwhile to mention that the petitioner was to 
prove that respondent No. 1 had procured one old builk car and 10 hired jeeps. 



3520 1HE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24, 1966/ PA USA 3, 1888 [Part II- 


Secondly he was also to prove that these vehicles were used for election pur- 
poses as required u/s 123 (5). The witnesses appearing on behalf of the peti- 
tioners have deposed that in those days the daily hire of jeep was from Rs. 30/- 
to Rs. 50/- per day excluding petrol. This has been stated by P.W. S Habib 
Khan, P.W. 9 Sita Ram and P.W. 11 Ghasiram, Durgashankar P.W. 14 has stated 
that six jeeps were hired while Bachansingh P.W. 16 and Ridmalsingh P.W. 77 
have deposed that they neither know names of the owners whose vehicles were 
hired and nor the amount paid for each jeep as hire by respondent No. 1. Thus 
on a perusal of the evidence on record the petitioner has failed to prove that 
jeeps were hired by respondent No. 1. Similarly, there is no evidence with 
regard to the Buick car. Further as required u/s 123 (5) of the Act, there is 
no evidence specifying that the alleged jeeps were carrying electors to and from 
any polling station. It is probable that there may be more jeeps than 10 and 
also similar number of bricks but unless it is proved by strong evidence that 
they were procured by respondent No. 1 and were actually put to use by hipa 
for electors, it cannot be said that any corrupt practice had been committed and 
the issue is accordingly found in the negative. 

Finding of issue No. 25(a) 

This issue relates to para N. 14(d) (i) of the petition and is with regard to 
the depreciation charges of 30 jeeps, two new station wagons and one old buick 
car alleged to be procured by respondent No. 1. It is urged that from 13th 
January, 1962 to 28th February, 1962 the amount of depreciation charges of 
aech jeep was Rs. 4000/- bringing the total amount for 30 jeeps to Rs. 1,20,000/-. 
As for station wagons, the depreciation charges are alleged to be Ka. 3000/- for 
each station wagon and for one old buick Rs, 1000/-. Thus in all there were 
depreciation charges to the tune of Rs, 1,27,000/-. I may mention that the 
finding of the issue rests on the finding of issue No. 24(c). In case the purchase 
and procurement of the 30 brand new jeeps and 2 station wagons and one old 
buick car and their use for election purposes, is proved a further examination 
for their depreciation charges may be called for but in mv finding of issue 
No. 24(c) (d) I have already observed that the petitioner has failed to prove 
the procurement of 30 jeeps, 2 station wagons ana one buick car and their use 
for election purposes, by respondent No. 1, as such finding of this issue is also 
in the negative. Anyway, I may briefly refer to the evidence led by the petitioner 
who has examined five witnesses who are P.W. 8, P.W. 10, P.W. 14, P.W. 15, P.W. 16 
and he himself appeared as P.W. 77. Of these P.W. 8 Habib Khan, P.W. 14 
Durgashankar and P.W. 15 Rameshwar are ail drivers. Habib Khan P.W. 8 has 
not said a single word about depreciation charges, Similarly P.W. 15 Rameshwar does 
not state anything about the depreciation charges. As for Durgashankar PW- 14, 
he says that he. was the driver of respondent. No. 1 and has deposed that after 
the use for a month or so of a new vehicle, there is the deprivation in its prices 
to the extent of Rs. 4000/- to Rs. 5000/-. In his cross-examination he has said 
that before election he used to ply a contractor’s heavy truck for carrying stones. 
He has also admitted that he neither purchased nor sold any new or old jeep or 
station wagon. Similarly, he admits that he did not mention about the deprecia- 
tion to anybody. It may be pointed that this witness has said nothing about 
depreciation of the alleged jeeps and station wagons. As for witnesses P.W, 5 
Radheshyam, P.W. 10 Babul al, P.W. 16 Bachansingh they are also silent! about 
the alleged depreciation. P W. 8 Habib Khan has deposed that price of a new 
jeep, after its use deprlclates to four annas in a rupee. He has admitted that he 
has no workshop and he works as mechanic when called by anybody. He has 
also deposed that petitioner Ridmalsingh is motor driver. The statement of 
the witness is more or less of a general nature not giving any particulars of the 
depreciation in the prices of the alleged jeeps and station wagons. As for the 
statement of th e petitioner Ridmalsingh himself, he has deposed that there was 
depreciation of about Rs, 1,27,000/- In the prices of 30 jeeps, 2 station wagons 
and one buick car, as given in his petition. He also admits that personally he 
does not own any vehicle and is a servant of respondent No. 2 Th, Raghuveer- 
slngh drawing a salary of Rs. 150/- to Rs. 200/- P.M. He further admitted that 
he neither purchased nor disposed of anv jeep or station wagon. There is the 
solitary statement of Ridmalsingh P.W, 77 the petitioner himself and it is not 
supported bv anv witness. He is evidently interested being a servant of respon- 
dent No. 2 and his lone testimonv is hardly of anv avail, to prove the alleged 
depreciation referred to in para No. 14(d) (i) of the petition and the issue Is 
found against the petitioner. 

Finding of Issue No. 25 (b) 

This issue relates to para No. 14(d) (ii) of the petition The petitioner’s 
allegation is that the hire of one jeep engaged bv respondent No. 1 was Rs. 00/- 
per day and thus the total amount of hire paid by respondent No. 1 for 10 days 



Sic. 8 (H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER IM. 19G6/PAUSA 3, 1888 3521 


J.e. till 28th February, 1962 was Rs. 18,000/- i n all. In this connection the learned 
counsel for the petitioner has drawn my attention to the statements of witnesses 
BW 3 Ismail, P.W. 8 Habib Khan, P.W. 9 Sitaram, P.W. 11 Ghasiram, P.W. 14 
Durgashankar, P.W, 16 Bachansingh and Ridmalsingh P.W. 77, I may iirst refer 
to the statement of Ridmalsingh petitioner who has stated that Jeeps and vehicles 
were used for a month and Rs. 18,000/- were spent on hire, while witnesses 
P.W. 3 Ismail, P.W. 8 Habib Khan, P.W. 12 Ladusingh, P.W. 14 Durgashankar and 
P.W 16 Bachansingh have deposed nothing about the hire of the jeeps and the 
total expenses incurred. Thus there remain statements of two witnesses P.W. 8 
Sitaram and P.W. 11 Ghasiram. Of these former has deposed that the charge 
for a jeep for a day was from Rs. 30 to 50, but in his cross-examination he clearly 
says that he does not know the total hire of jeeps paid, while the later (P.W. 11) 
does not even know the period when the jeeps were taken on hire as well as 
the amount paid. It is thus clear that the statement of the petitioner is not 
corroborated by any witness, and a mere assertion that the jeeps were taken on 
hire certainly does not carry conviction, unless the material fact about each jeep 
and hire settled with their’ owners and the amount paid to each by respondent 
No. 1 are proved. Not only this but it was also to be established that such jeep 
was used by respondent No. 1 for election purpose. From a perusal of the 
evidence on record it is obvious that the petitioner has failed to make out a 
ease and the issue is found accordingly. 

Finding of issue No. 26(a) 

This issue relates to para No. 14(d) (iii) of the petition. The petitioner's 
allegation is that respondent No. 1 incurred expenses to the extent of Rs, 4,000/- 
on the pay of drivers and cleaners of 30 jeeps and one Buick car and to prove 
this there is the sole testimony of the petitioner Ridmalsingh P.W, 77. He says 
that on every vehicle there was a driver drawing Rs. 100/- P.M. and a cleaner 
receiving Rs. 60/- P.M, Thus the total amount on the salaries of cleaners and 
drivers spent was Rs. 4960/-. In his cross-examination the petitioner has admit- 
ted that nc itlier th e drivers and cleaners were employed in hi s presence nor 
salaries were paid in his presence. No other evidence in support of this allegation 
has been brought on record and I find the issue against th e petitioner. 

Finding of issue No. 26(b) 

This issue relates to para No. 14(e) of the petition. It is urged on petitioner’s 
behalf that from 13th January. 1962 to 28th February, 1962 respondent No. 1 
incurred a sum of Rs. 36,000/- as expenses for petrol and Rs. 3000/- for mobil 
oil. It will be obvious diat before proving expenses for petrol and mobil oil, the 
petitioner should have proved the procurement of jeeps, station wagons and 
buick car and their use for election purpose by the respondent No. 1 but this has 
not been done. The petitioner has examined six witnesses. Only Ridmalsingh 
petitioner (P.W. 77) has deposed that the expenses on petrol and mobil oil 
incurred by the respondent No. 1 come to Rs 36,000/- and Rs. 3000/-, respectively. 
But in his cross-examination he has admitted that the petrol and mobil oil were 
not purchased in his knowledge, but the items of petrol and mobil oil and their 
expenses as mentioned in the petition are given approximately. The statements 
of witnesses P.W. 2, P.W. 9, and P.W. 12 also do not show that the expenses 
on petrol and mobil oil used in the vehicles were incurred bv respondent No. 1. 
It is also obvious that figures of consumption and the expenditure alleged to he 
incurred on petrol and mobil oil are based on assumption that for propelling the 
vehicles petrol and mobil oil are necessary. There is no witness who could Iiave 
stated on his personal knowledge about the consumption of petrol and mobil oil 
in vehicles procured by respondent No. l and th e expense? incurred by him. 
The witnesses have stated on simple assumption, which have no evidentiary 
value. The issue is. accordingly decided against the petitioner. 

Finding of issue No. 27 

This issue relates to para No. 14(f) (ii) of the petition. The petitioner's con- 
tention is that respondent No. 1 engaged 20 salaried employees between isth 
January, 1962 and 28th February, 1962 for clPction work and expenses thus incur- 
red on those employees on the travelling and other purposes amounted to 
Rs. 4009/-. To prove this issue, the petitioner has nx-arniri-d and four 

other witnesses which are P.W, 2 Mohd. Ismail, P.W. 3 Ismail, P.W. B Radhev- 
shvam. P.W. 16 Bachan Singh. The petitioner (P.W. 77) has stated that 20 
persons had come fi-om outside and he further stated on his personal inferences 
that from their living standard each must be getting Rs. 500/- ns salary p.M. 
and travelling expenses of each must be Rs. 200/-. This is what he assumes and 



3522 A HE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24, 1966/PAUSA 3, 1 BH 8 


[Paht II— 


not the actual amount of salary or the travelling expenses which might have 
been incurred by respondent No. 1. As for the number of employees there are 
serious discrepancies in the statements of the petitioner as well as his witnesses. 
P.W. 3 says that there were six or seven persons coming from outside and salary 
of each of them might be Rs. 300/- to Rs. 400/- P.M. Mohd. Ismail P.W. 3 says 
that there were seven or eight employees while Radheshyam P,W. 5 also says 
that there were eight or ten persons and each of them might be getting Rs, 300/ 
to Rs. 500/- P.M. . Thus none of the witnesses supports the statement of the 
petitioner. Besides, the petitioner has deposed that he could neither mention 
the name of any of the employees nor the names of the concerns in which they 
wer e employed. In cross-examination he admits that he had enquired from the 
employees themselves who had told him that they were employed by Murarka 
and their expenses were met by him but he does not remember the name of 
even a single employee from whom he enquired, so much so that he did not 
remember the names of the persons from Jhunjhunu who were working for 
respondent No. 1. It is strang e that not only the petitioner but even other wit- 
nesses failed to stand the test of cross-examination, Radheyshyam P.W. 5 has 
said that he did not mention to anybody about respondent No, 1 incurring such 
expenses, P.W. 2 also says that he docs not know nor enquired the names of 
those employees. On a careful scrutiny of the evidence on record, it is obvious 
that the statement of witnesses are untenable and no credence can be attached 
to them. Tile petitioner has failed to establish the allegation made in para 
No. 14(f) of the petitioner and the issue is found against him. 

Finding of issue No. 28 

This issue relates to para No. 14(g) (i) of the petition. The two issues No, 28 
and No. 29 relate to the meetings alleged to be held at the instance of respondent 
No. 1. Issue No. 28 deals with the meetings in general alleged to be held at 
various places in support of respondent No. 1 while issue No. 29 refers to the 
meetings held specifically when Shrl Morarji Desai Ex-Finance Minister, Govern- 
ment of India visited Jhunjhunu Parliamentary Constituency, 

So far as issue No, 28 is concerned the petitioner’s contention is that in 
Jhunjhunu Parliamentary Constituency right from 19th January, 1962 to 19th 
February, 1962 meetings were held at various places as mentioned in para 
No. 14(g) (i) of the election petition, and that respondent No. 1 incurred expenses 
to the extent of Rs. 10,000/- on such meetings. It may be mentioned that the 
total number of meetings held as alleged in the petition is fifty one. I have 
gone through the evidence led by the petitioner and on a careful study of the 
evidence on record it is obvious that the petitioner has failed to produce any 
evidence about the meetings alleged to he held at the following 15 places: — 

Salampur, Badagoan, Pilanl Chlrawa, Budhana. Singhana, Bajwa, Udaipur, 
Chirana, Jhajhad, Mandawia, Malsisar, Bhanuri, Ladusar and Ramgarh. 

Before I may deal further with regard to meetings at other places, it is 
worthwhile to mention that, the petitioner has examined 30 witnesses to prove 
that meetings were held at various places. These witnesses have admitted that 
they had been either associated and worked for or were in service of respondent 
No. 1 during his election campaign. The learned counsel for the respondent 
No. 1 thus! at the very outset has drawn my attention to these witnesses who 
have been deserters. Sis plea is that the evidence of such, witnesses who on their 
own admissions are deserters is in itself sufficient to arouse strongest suspicion 
as to their bonaflde because it has been only on very rare occasions that any one 
has voluntarily come forward and given evidence against any one to whom he 
was genuinely disposed of. In this connection be has referred E.L.R. 19 Page 
417. I may, however point out that on a perusal of the record, the number of 
such witnesses (deserters) is thirty and the number of places where meetings 
are alleged to be held and proved by such witnesses being 24 which are as 
under: — 

Bissau, Kali-Pahari, Dhundlod, Khetri, Bajawa, Gudh'a, Nua, Mines, Mahan- 

Far. Patoda. Churl Ajcetgarh, Bai, Dabri, Titanwad, Niradhnu; Tamkor; 

Surajgarh, Bagar, Nangal, Nawalgarh, Togda, Tain, and Jeetas. 

Thus it may |y> significantly mentioned that to prove charges of corrupt prac- 
tices, the petitioner has to make out a case against the respondent beyond reason- 
able 1 doubt and the statements of the witnesses who are deserters have to be 
examined very carefully because in view of the aforesaid citation the very fact 
that they are deserters arouses strongest suspicion as to the bonafides of such 
witnesses. 



3«C THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMAEs Sti HJfiH/TAUSA' 3, l'8BB 35a £ 


I now first take up the places where evidence for meetings has been adduced 
by the petitioner: — 

1. Jhunihunu : — It is urged that a meeting was held by respondent No. 1 at 
Jhunjhunu and to prove this five witnesses have bern examined. P.W. 8 Habib 
Khan, P.W, 9 Sitaram. P.W. 10 Babulal P.W. 11 Ghasiram, and P.W. 12 Laduram. 
It will appear from a perusal of these statements that there is no direct evidence 
about the expenses incurred by Respondent No. 1 on the meeting P.W. 9 Sitaram 
has deposed that he was present in th e meeting held in Motilal College, Jhun- 
jhunu but he could say nothing about the. expenses incurred at the meeting. The 
same is the case with regard to other witnesses, and their testimony is of no avail. 


.? 


2. Bissau: — As for meeting at Bissau, Maliram P.W. 13 has deposed that a sum 
of Rs 200/- to Rs. 250/- was incurred by respondent Nq. 1 for this meeting. But 
from his evidence it appears that he has no personal knowledge and what he has 
averred is al 1 based on presumption and surmise. Other witnesses examined by 
the petitioner are P.W, 14 Durgashankar Parmeshwar P.W 15, Hiralal P.W. 1 
and they have also failed to prove that a sum of Rs. 250/- was spent for thp 
meeting. Their evidence cannot be safely relied upon as on their own admis- 
sion they were associated with respondent No. 1 and, as such, they are deserters. 
Mention may be made that on behalf of respondent No. 1 D.W. 10 Narsinghdev 
has appeared in the witness box and ho has stated that no meeting was held by 
Respondent No. 1 at Bissau and nothing was incurred on this meeting It also 
appears that Muliram P.W. 13, Durgashankar P.W. 14. Parmeshwar P.W. 16 And 
Hiralal P.W. 17 are residents of Bissau, they are interested persons as they had 
worked for Th. Raghuveersingh respondent No. 2, 


Bhnrki: — As for meeting at Bhorki, it is alleged that a sum of Rs. 300 had 
been incurred on the meeting by Respondent No. 1. The witnesses produced in 
support of this al’egation are Ramlal P.W. 19, Dhansmgh P.W. 52, Ghlsararn 
P.W. 54, Resalsingh P.W. 55. Mehtabsingh P.W. 56 and Badri Prasad P.W. 57- 
The witnesses P.W 54, 55, 56 do not mention anything about the meeting while 
the statement of witnesses P.W. 19, P.W. 52 and P.W. 57 are based on hearsay 
which are inadmissible in evidence, thus allegation is accordingly not proved. 


Togra - — As for meeting at Togra only one witness has been adduced by the 
petitioner and he is Khemchand P.W. 20. He says that a sum of Rs. 104/- was 
paid to him by respondent No. 1 but he did not make any mention about the 
expenses of the meeting to anybody. In cross-examination he clearly admits that 
for generations he is Choudharl of Bissau Thikana. he is evidently an interested 
witness and, therefore, cannot be relied upon. 

Bhojasar : — As for meeting at village Bhojasar, one witness Bhanwarsingh 
P.W. 22 has been examined by the petitioner. He says that a sum of Rs. 28/- was 
paid to him by Ramkumar for meeting expenses. He further says that the meet- 
iru£ was arranged by one Ramkumar but Ramkumar has not boon produced. The 
witness is a tutored one as he mentioned the date of the meeting but could not 

f ive the date of only ten days back. He admits that he is ITiterate and that he 
id not do other work through Ramkumar except the meeting work, his state- 
ment as such cannot be relied. 


Kali-Pahari : — As for the meeting at Kali-Pahari, it is urged that Rs. 255/- 
were incurred for the meeting expenses by respondent No. 1. Two witnesses P.W. 
23 and P.W. 24, Samandarsingh and Baghsingh, respectively, have been produced 
to prove the expenses but their statements are based on hearsay. They are deser- 
ters and thus their testimony is not worthy of reliance. 


M andrela : — As for meeting in village Mandrela, it is urged on petitioners 
behalf that a sum of Rs. 175/- was spent by respondent No. 1 and in thus con- 
nection he has referred to statement of Sale Khan P.W. 25, but he says that the 
expenditure was done by one Prithvisingh who has not been produced, thus his 
statement is also of no avail. 


Sultana- — For aVegations of meeting Bt Sultana the petitioner has produced 
witness PW. 27 Moolsingh, who has deposed that a sum of Rs. 20/- was spent on 
the meeting. He i= evidently a tutored witness as he says that Ramsingh _ had 
asked him to nrnpogate for the meeting but Ramsingh has not been examined. 
His statement, therefore, is not worthy of reliance. 

Surajgarh ■ — For the allegation of meeting at Surajgarh, the petitioner has 
urged that a sum of Rs. 150/- was spent at the meeting by respondent No. 1. In 
this connection two witnesses Vishvanath P.W. G5 and Mungaram P.W. 66 have 



(Taut II— 


3524 1 H_E GtAZXTTl OF 1NQ1A 1 PKCKMBZR 24, 19M/PAUSA 8, 1888 


been adduced The statement of both the -witnesses does not carry conviction as 
they are quite unnatural. P.W. 65 does not remember his own expenditure be- 
sides he is a deserter and his evidence, therefore, cannot he relied. 


Khetri ;- — For allegations of meeting at Khetri, a sum of Rs. 150/- is alleged to 
be spent on the meeting and the witnesses to prove this expenditure are P.w.li) 
Narainsingh and P.W. 37 Mangilal. The statement of P.W 29 Nearly shows that 
he is a tutored witness. He was introduced to respondent No. 1 by P.W. 37. He 
was put various questions in cross-eyamination but he doe not remember the 
details as to the recovery of amount lent by him in the last 3 months. He aWo 
failed to prove the expenditure of Rs. 150 on the meeting. Similarly the state- 
ment of P.W, 37 Mangilal cannot be also relied upon as he is also a deserter. 


Thtnlod.:— As for meeting at Dundlod the petitioner has a’leged that respon- 
dent No. 1 spent Rs. 70/- on the expenditure for the meeting and to support this, 
the witnesses produced are Shyamsunder P.W. 28 and Sampatsingh P.W. 69. 
P.W. 28 has admitted that he received a sum of Rs. 3,600/- from Th. Raghuveer- 
singh respondent No. 2 and made repairs of vehicles for hi m. This witness is 
evidently an interested witness. Similarly statement of P.W. 59 also does not 
help the petitioner who says that he did not work for anyone except respondent 
No. 1. On his own admission he is a deserter and his evidence too cannot be 
trusted. 


Bajawa : — As for meeting at Bajawa the petitioner has produced two witnesses 
Bhaguram P.W. 30 and Jagatsingh P.W. 31. It is urged that a sum of Rs. 159/- 
had been incurred for the meeting by respondent No. 1. Bhaguram P.W. 30 has 
deposed that he was prevailed upon by Mst. Sumitra to work for respondent No. 1 
but Mst. Sumitra who was instrumental for arranging the alleged meetings has 
not been examined. Further Bhaguram who on his own admission had served 
respondent No. 1 but has now appeared against him, as such, he is a deserter and 
his evidence cannot be relied. The statement of Jagatsingh P.W. 31 is also not 
material as he himself admits that for the first time he has mentioned in the 
court that a sum of Rs. 160/- was paid for the meeting by respondent No. 1. The 
petitioner has accordingly failed to prove this allegation. 


Babai: — It is urged that a meeting was held at Babai and a sum of Rs. 70/- 
wae spent by respondent No, 1. In support of this Bachansingh P.W. 32 ajnd 
Nathusingh P.W. 33 have been produced. Bachansingh P.W. 32 has deposed that 
he was introduced by one Birjusingh to respondent No. 1 but this Birjusingh has 
not been examined by the petitioner. The witness has also admitted that he does 
not remember his personal expenses of even for the last few months but strangely 
enough he could remember the expenses incurred by him two years before for 
holding the alleged meeting. It is something unnatural and his evidence is not 
free from suspicion as he Is also a deserter. Nathusingh P.W. 33 has no personal 
knowledge about the expenses of the meeting. All that he says is based on what 
Bachansingh had conveyed to him. Further it is admitted that both the witnesses 
worked for Th. Raghuveersingh in election and according’y they are interested 
witnesses and no reliance can be placed on their evidence. 

Gudha : — It is urged that a sum of Rs. 250/- was incurred for meeting held at 
Gudha and to support this two witnesses Madho Prasad P.W. 34 and Zorawarsingh 
P.W. 35 have been adduced. They have deposed that the amount was spent by 
him for holding a meeting to sponsor the cause of respondent No. 1. It will appear 
that both these witnesses on their own admission had been working for respon- 
dent No, 2 Th. Raghuveer Singh a rival candidate of respondent No. 1. It fc 
thus inconceivable that respondent No. 1 would have at all entrusted them with 
any work during his election campaign. Further the witnesses have alleged that 
they received Rs. 250/- for meeting expenses from respondent No. 1 which had 
been disclosed by them for the first time on y before the Tribunal as such their 
evidence is quite unnatural and unworthy of any credence. 


Nua : — As for meeting at Nua it is alleged that a sum of Rs. 195/- was spent 
by respondent No. 1 for holding a meeting at Nua and Shri Dashrathsingh P.W. 36 
has been produced to prove it but he is an interested witness. On his own ad- 
mission the witness had Muwafl land for generation from Thakur of Bissau. H* 
has also stated that he was introduced to respondent No. 1 by one Berisalsingh, 
which Berisalsingh has been examined on behalf of respondent No. 1, who has 
deposed that he did not introduce him to respondent No. 1. The witness is an 
interested one and his testimony cannot be relied. 



sec. THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 19M5/EAUSA S, IM& 3535 


Minas:— It is alleged that a sum of Rs. 50/- was incurred by Respondent No. 1 
as expenses for meeting held at Minas. Two witnesses Ganpatram P.W. 73 aid 
Juntharam P.W. 74 have been examined but their statements are contradictory 
to each other. P.W. 73 says that he arranged the meeting and spent Rs. 50/- and 

E aid Rs. 10/- to Juntha for propaganda work. As against this Juntha P.W. 74 
as deposed that meeting was arranged by him and he spent Rs. 50/- while pro- 
paganda work was carried by one Balu. Besides both have alleged their dose 
association with respondent, as such they are deserters and their evidence cannot 
be relied. 

Mahansar: — It is alleged that a sum of Rs. 90/- was spent on the meeting fcv 
respondent No. 1 held at Mahansar. To prove this Baluram P.W. 71 and ITamf 
P.W. 72 have been examined but their statements are contradictory to each other 
as regards the expenses of the meeting. They both have deposed their close asso- 
ciation with respondent No. 1 but in the witness-box they have ranged themselves 
against the candidate for whom they alleged to have worked, they are, as such, 
deserters and their evidence is not free from suspicion. 

Patoda:- — It is urged that a meeting was held at Patoda by respondent No. 1 
and a sum of Rs. 100/- was spent by him. One Kalyan Singh P.W. 69 has beem 
produced to prove the expenditure on this meeting. He says that he was intro- 
duced to respondent No. 1 by Shri Ramnarain but Shri Ramnarain has not bee* 
examined and no satisfactory explanation has been given for his non-production. 
Further this witness is also a deserter and no reliance can be placed on his evi- 
dence. 

Churi-Ajeetgarh:— At Churi-Ajeetgarh a sum of Rs. 250/- is alleged to have 
been incurred by respondent No. 1 for the meeting. In support of this, witnesses 
Madanlal P.W. 38 and Laxminarain P.W, 39 have been produced. The former 
has deposed that he did not mention this to any one before but it is quite un- 
natural. Besides he also failed to give the particulars of the items of expendi- 
ture made by him, he is also a deserter and his evidence cannot be relied. As 
for the statement of Laxminarain P.W. 39, he says that arrangements for the 
meeting were made by Madanlal P.W. 38 and not by him. He is silent as regards 
the expenses incurred and accordingly his evidence is of no avail. 

FatehpuT :■ — It is alleged that a meeting was held at Fatehpur at the instance 
of respondent No. 1 and a sum of Rs. 300/- was incurred by him. Gajanand 
P.W. 40 has been examined to prove expenses of this meeting. The witness has 
deposed that two persons one Brij'al and other Ranglal had told him to make 
arrangements for providing meals to 200 persons in connection with the meeting 
and a sum of Rs. 350/- was paid by Ranglal. Both Brijlal and Ranglal were 
important witnesses but none of them has been examined and the lone testimony 
of Gajanand P.W. 40 cannot be relied. 

Bat: The petitioner has alleged that a sum of Rs. 160/- was incurred by res- 
pondent No, 1 for holding a meeting at Bai and to prove this he has examined 
Narain P.W. 41 and Banesingh P.W. 42 but both these witnesses have contradicted 
each other. Narain has denied that his father was Choudhari of Bissau Thakur 
but Banesingh P.W. 42 says that Narain’s father was a Choudhari, Banesingk 
P W. 42 has admitted that he was a Border (a person who gets land in return of 
his services) of Thikana Bisau, and as such Banesingh and Narain both are closely 
associated with Thakur Raghuveersingh Respondent No. 2 and as they are in- 
terested witnesses and no reliance can be p'aced on their evidence. 

Dabri: — The petitioner has alleged that a sum of Rs, 58 was spent by Res- 
pondent No. 1 for a meeting at Dabri. To prove this three witnesses Baghsingh 
P.W. 43, Sheoram P.W. 47 and Khinwaram P.W. 48 have been examined. The 
statements of P.W. 43 and P.W. 47 cannot be relied upon as both are interested 
witnesses. Baghsingh P.W, 43’s uncle has been Telisi'dar in Bisau Thikana while 
Shobharam P.W. 47’s father has been closely associated with Thakur of Bisau 
as Choudhary of the Thikana, Thus it is not at all surprising that both these 
witnesses should have appeared to prove their loyalty and discharge the obligation 
which they owe to respondent No. 2. As for the statement of Khinwa Ram P.W. 
48 he says that he kept account of expenses Rs. 58/- of the meeting but he failed 
to produce their accounts. It is a"so worthy of note that the witness alleges to 
have spent a sum of Rs, 2600/- on the marriage of his son, did not maintain the 
account of marriage of expenses. All these witnesses according to the statement 
of Bhagwana D.W. 4 and on their own admission are interested witnesses and, as 
such unworthy of any reliance, 


[Part II- 


3526 lHE GAZETTE or INDIA: DECEMBER 24, 1906/PAUSA 3 , 1883 


Nangal: —According to the petitioner a sum of Rs. 84/- is alleged to have been 
incurred by respondent No. 1 for meeting at Nangal. Phoolsingh P.W. 46 has 
appeared in the witness-box, who says that a letter had been addressed to him 
by respondent No. 1 to hold a meeting in the village Nangal. The witness has 
neither adduced this letter nor he made a mention to anyone about the expenses 
incurred in the meeting. It. is for the first time before the Tribunal that the wit- 
ness has deposed about the meeting and expenses incurred by him. The state- 
ment in itself is unworthy of any credence and, as such, unreliable. 

Kari : — The petitioner has alleged that a sum of Rs, 45/- was spent by res- 
pondent No. !. Laxmansingh P.W, 50 has been examined to prove this expenditure. 
The witness has deposed that the amount had been received by him from one 
Jagan. His statement is based on hearsay as Jagan told him that the expenses 
had been incurred by respondent No, 1, accordingly his statement is inadmissible 
in evidence. 

Titanwad : — According to the petitioner respondent No. 1 had incurred a sum 
of Rs. 70 for holding a meeting at Titanwad. Lalji P.W. 49 and Lichman P.W. 51 
have been examined to prove the expenses incurred at the meeting, P.W. 49 
has stated that it was one Sheonathsingh through whom everything was arranged 
by Respondent No. 1 but Sheonath Singh has not been examined. The witness 
has also deposed that one Sugansingh who was doing Th. Raghuveersingh respon- 
dent No. 2’s propaganda work, presided over the meeting arranged on behalf of 
respondent No. 1. This seems to be quite unnatural that respondent No, 2’s active 
worker Sugan Singh should have ever presided the meeting held in support of 
respondent No. 1. The statement of P.W. 49 cannot, therefore, be relied. As for 
statement of Lachman P.W. 51 it is also unworthy of any credence as h!e says 
that the meeting was organised by one Shivnathji and expenses were incurred by 
Lalji P.W. 49. 

Niradhnw . — The petitioner has alleged that a sum of Rs. 30/- was incurred 
for the meeting held by respondent No. 1 at Niradhnu and to prove this one 
Puranram P.W. 60 has been examined. On his own admission he is associated 
with respondent No. 1 but in the witness-box he has appeared against respondent 
No. 1 and, as such, he is a deserter and his testimony cannot be accepted. 

Tamkor : —According to the petitioner a sum of Rs. 95/- is alleged to have 
been spent on meeting at Tamkor. To prove this three witnesses Nanusingh 
P.W. 61, Meghraj P.W. 62 and Johri P.W. 63 have been examined. I have gone 
through the statements of Nanusingh P.W. 61 and Meghraj P.W. 62 but their 
statements are contradictory to each other, P.W. 61 says that when he gave the 
account of expenses nobody was present, while P.W. 62 says that he himself and 
many others were present at the time. Nanusingh P.W. 61 has also admitted that 
he received land from Thikana Bissau, this witness is evidently an interested 
witness while the testimony of other witnesses is unworthy of any reliance. 

Swajgarh: — It is urged that a sum of Rs. 185/- was incurred by respondent 
for holding meeting at Surajgarh. To prove this allegation Vishvanath P.W. 65 
and Mangaram P.W. 06 have been examined by the petitioner, P.W. 00 has ad- 
mitted that he did not disclose to anyone before this that a meeting was arranged 
by respondent No. 1. The witness also does not remember items of expenditure 
made by him, he is also a deserter and according’y no reliance can be placed on 
his testimony as well as on the lone testimony of Mangaram P.W. 60. 

On a careful perusal of the statements of witnesses examined by the petitioner 
it is obvious that the petitioner has failed to produce any cogent evidence corro- 
borated by material witnesses. The burden heavily lay on the petitioner to 
prove beyond any reasonable doubt that the meetings were held at the instance 
of respondent No. 1 and that the alleged expenses were incurred by him. On a 
closer analysis it is evident that out of the 51 p’accs where meetings are alleged 
to have been held, no evidence has been addured for meetings at 15 places which 
are alleged to be held and the expenses incurred by the respondent No. 1. As 
for meetings alleged to be held at twenty other places the petitioner has examined 
witnesses but most of them are deserters and their evidence is not free from 
suspicion. It is further to be mentioned that mere allegation that meetings were 
held is not enough un'ess it is proved that the meetings were held at the instance 
of respondent No. 1 and that all the expenses incurred on these meetings were 
borne by the said respondent. The petitioner has failed to substantiate his alle- 
gations of tile meetings as well as expenses incurred by Respondent No, 1 and 
the issue is accordingly decided against the petitioner. 



Sun. S(i()i 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24, 1088/J>AU5A 3, 1888 


3527 


Issue No. 28 (b) 

In view of the finding on Issue No. 28(a), this issue is also decided against the 
petitioner. 

Issue No. 29(a) (b) 

The petitioner’s allegation in para No. 14(g) (ii) is that respondent No. 1 had 
called Shri Mornrji Desai, Ex-Finance Minister, Government of India to address 
election meetings to support and sponsor his candidature and that Respondent 
No. 1 incurred all the expenses of the meetings addressed by Shri Morarji held at 
Nawalgarh, Mandawa, Jhunjhunu and Bissau. It is common ground that Shri 
Morarji Desat participated in the election campaign of Jhunihunu Parliamentary 
Constituency and addressed meetings on 29-1-62 and 30-1-62 held at the afore- 
said places. Now the main point for determination is whether respondent No. 1 
called &hri Morarji and incurred the expenses of the meetings addressed by him. 

Before deahng further it is worthwhile to refer to basic principles with regard 
to expenses incurred by a candidate, specifically with regard to meetings. Section 
77 of the Act provides that every candidate at an election shall keep a separate 
and correct account of all expenditure in connection with the election, incurred 
or authorised by him or by his election agent between the date of the publication 
of the notification calling the election and the date of the result thereof, both 
dates inclusive. Sub-section (1) is of general nature but sub-section (2) pro- 
vides that the account shall contain such particulars as may be prescribed while 
sub-section 3 provides that the total of the said expenditure shall not exceed such 
amount as may be prescribed. It may be here pointed out that it is only when 
the sum total of the expenditure as incurred or authorised by a candidate ex- 
ceeds the prescribed limit, there is the contravention of section 77 of the Act and 
a corrupt practice under section 123 (6) is committed but at the same time ac- 
cording to E.L.R. 16 Page 103, a mere contravention of sub-section (1) and (2) 
of section 77 is no longer a corrupt practice. 

The learned counsel for the petitioner in support of his contention has argued 
that even if the expenses were incurred by any association or agency which is 
interested in the success of the candidate as A.I.C.C., P.C.C. or D.C.C. they 
will be deemed to have acted as an agent of the candidate and that the expenses 
incurred or authorised by any Body or agency, shall be included in the return 
of election expenses. In support of this contention he has referred to E.L.R. 10 
Page 57 (Election Tribunal, Nagpur — 28-4-54), wherein it has been held that: — 

“If an association or a society is interested in the success of a candidate 
and members of that society or organisation canvass for the candidate such 
association or society and every member of such association or society would 
be an agent of the candidate under section 79(a) of the Representation of 
the People Act, 1951. and the expenses incurred by them would not be un- 
authorised expenses.” 

It has been further held that: — 

"Therefore, the expenses incurred after the nomination of a candidate by 
the candidate himself or by his election agent or by other persons (such as 
the All India Congress Committee, the Provincial Congress Committee and 
the District Congress Committee in the case of a congress candidate) and all 
other persons who took part in the election campaign, and by visitors who 
visited the constituency to support the candidature of the candidate and to 
canvass votes on his behalf are expenses incurred or authorised by the 
candidate for the 'conduct and management’ of his election and should be in- 
cluded in the return of election expenses.” 

As against the above citation the learned counsel for Respondent No. 1 has re- 
ferred to a later ruling of Allahabad High Court E.L.R. 20 Page 176 (December, 
1958), which lays down that only such expenditure which has been incurred or 
authorised by the candidate or his election agent is to be included in the election 
expenses. It has been further held that the word ‘authorised’ was not equivalent 
to the expression ‘with the consent or the knowledge of’ and that even if the res- 
pondent knew that the All-India or the District Congress Committee had incurred 
some expenditure, in this behalf, such expenditure could not be treated as 
expenditure ‘incurred or authorised’ by the respondent. So much so that even 
the burden of proving that A.I.C.C. or D.C.C. have incurred some expenditure 
in this matter and the amount of expenses that they have incurred was on the 
petitioner and not on the respondent. 



[J'A»T II— 


3528 THE GAZETTE OE INDIA: DECEMBER 24, 1 S 66 /PAUSA 3, 1888 


I may point out that I have given my best consideration to the citation which 
has been referred upon misconception. This citation is based upon section 79(a) 
of the Act but sub-section (a) has been omitted by Act 27 of 1956-Sec. 43 and 
thus clause (a) is no longer good law and accordingly all citations based on the 
interpretation of sub-section (a) are obsolete and the petitioner’s contention fail 
on merits. 

Now in this view of the matter it is crystal clear that to prove corrupt practice 
u/s 123 (6) of the Act it was obligatory upon the petitioner to show that the 
expenditure was incurred or authorised by respondent No. 1 and if he fails to 
prove, any amount of expenditure whatsoever made by any Body, organisation 
■or society or otherwise, respondent No. 1 cannot be held responsible for the same 
and accordingly it is not a contravention of section 77 of the Act, 

In the context of the above discussion I now proceed to deal with the alle- 
gations with regard to meetings held in connection with Shri Morarji Desai’s 
visit. 

It has been alleged that Respondent No. 1 arranged meetings on the occasion 
of the visit of Shri Morarji Desai at Nawalgarh, Mandawa, Jhunjhunu and Bissau 
and incurred expenditure on those meetings. I first deal with the meeting 
alleged to be held at Nawalgarh. ' 

Nawalgarh : — The petitioner examined seven witnesses in support of his con- 
tention who are P.W. 1, P.W. 2, P.W. 3, P.W. 5, and P.W. 6. Th e respondent 
No. 1 on his part has examined himself and two witnesses D.W. 7 and D.W. 13. 
It appears from Abdul Gani P.W. l’s statement that he is prejudiced against 
respondent No. 1 as the nomination paper of Balji another candidate and -a 
close relative of the witness, was got rejected by Respondent No. 1, his evidence 
accordingly is not to b e trusted. As for witnesses Mohd, Ismail P.W. 2 and 
Ismail P.W. 3, both have deposed that Shri Morarji came to Nawalgarh and n 
tea party was arranged In his honour at the Town Hall which was attended to 
by about 150 persons. Mohd. Ismail P.W. 2 has further deposed that a meeting 
was arranged and the expenses for the same were incurred bv respondent No. 1 
which were about Rs. 2000/-. While Ismail PW, 3 says that tne expenses on the 
meeting were Rs. 1000/-, But the evidence of both these witnesses is based on 
conjectures and hearsay. Again Mohd. Ismail P.W. 2 says that he does not 
know the name of the persons from whom he heard that respondent No. 1 had 
called Morarji, as for expenditure met by respondent No. 1 he inferred this 
because chairs for the meeting had been brought from the house of respondent 
No. 1 Similarly Ismail P.W 3 says that he heard from Sagnrmal Munim of 
respondent No. 1 that the expenditure was incurred by him, Radheyshyam 
P.W. 5 is another witness, who deposed that a party was held at Nawalgarh and 
about 200 persons were offered meals. This was arranged by respondent No. 1 
who incurred Rs. 800/- to Rs. 900/- towards its expenditure and thereafter a 
public merting was addressed bv Morarii Desai, But in his cross-examination he 
admits that he does not know whether Congress called Morarji and nor he knows 
who paid his expenses. Dr B. S. Gupta P.W. 6 has deposed that meeting was 
arranged bv respondent No, 1 at thp time of Morarjl’s visit and all the expenses 
(cere met by him. But in his cross-examination he admits that there had been 
tivil and criminal cases pending between the witness and Shri Naharsingh Presi- 
dent D.C.C. who had been all out to sunnort respondent No. 1 The witness 
failed to stand the test of cross-examination, he is an interested witness and 
his testimony is impaired. 

Jhunjhunu : ■ — As for meeting at Jhunlhunu, the petitioner has produced 5 
witnesses who are P W. 9. P.W. 10, PW 11, P.W.- 12 and P.W. 10. Sitaram 
P.W. 9 has deoosed that Morarii D-sai came to support respondent No. 1, a 
congress candidate and 0 sum of about Rs. 2000/- or Rs. 2500/- might have been 
incurred bv respondent No. 1 Another witness B=bulal PW 10 says that a meet- 
ing was arranged in Jhunjhunu which was addressed bv Morarji According to 
him n sum of Rs. 800/- to Rs. 1000/- might have b^en gnent bv respondent No. I 
Similarly Ghaslram P.W, 11 has deposed that a meeting was held in Gandhi 
Chowk Jhunjhunu and a sum of Rs 1000 /. to Rs 1500/- might have been spent. 

witness has admitted In cross-examination that he has no idea whether the 
meeting was called bv D C C, or not. As for the exDenses he admits that it is 
guess work and beyond that he has no knowledge. Bachan Singh P.W. 10 snvs 
that he was Dresent at the meeting addressed bv Morarii and a sum of Rs 2000/- 
must havn been spent. In cross-examination he savs that he does not know 
who sp-nt the amount and that he has no knowledge whether Morarji was 
called by P C.C. or D.C.C... From the above analysis of the statements of the 



3£C. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; DECEMBER 21. 1906/PAU3A J. 1888 3529. 


witnesses it is abundantly clear that they above failed to prove that respondent 
No. 1 called the meeting in connection with Shri Morarp’s visit and that he 
incurred expenses for such meeting. All they have deposed is that the meeting 
was held and that expenses had been incurred but who called £<hri Morarji and 
incurred expenses for the meeting, the witnesses are not definite and their state- 
ments are quite vague, as such, their evidence is not material. 

Bissau : — As for meeLing at Bissau, the petitioner has examined two witnesses 
Maliram P.W. 13, Hlralal P.W. 17. Maliram P.W. 12 has deposed that meeting 
was arranged, by respondent No. 1 and an expenditure to the extent of Rs. 800/- 
to Rs. 1000/- might have been incurred. In cross-examination the witness failed 
to mention names of the persons making arrangement and admits what he has 
stated merely by bis own conjectures. Heeralal P.W. 17 says that some amount 
was paid to him by Murlidhar on behalf of respondent No, 1 for arranging the 
meetmg but he failed to remember the amount which was actually paid to him. 
In his cross-examination he admitted that formerly he used to give revenue t© 
Th. Raghuveersingh respondent No. 2 and thus he is an interested witness and no 
reliance can be placed on such evidence. 

Mandawa : — For meeting at Mandawa the petitioner has examined Dhonkal 
P.W. 53. He says that Morarji addressed a meeting at 7 p.m. in the market of 
Mandawa and a sum of Rs. 200/- to Rs, 400/- must have been spent. There was 
also a tea party after the meeting to which he also joined. He has further de- 
posed that all these expenses were incurred through Birjusingh but he does not 
know how such, money was actually spent. It may be pointed that Birjusingh 
was a material witness who should nave been examined hut neither he has been 
produced nor a satisfactory explanation for his non-production has been forth- 
coming, and accordingly it is not proved that the expenses for the meeting were 
incurred by respondent No. 1. 

Lastly I may refer to the statement of petitioner Shri Ridmalsingh himself 
about the meetings held at the four places. He has deposed that a sum of 
Rs. 5000/- to Rs. 6000/- must have been spent on the meetings and the tea 
parties arranged in connection with Shri Morarji Desai’s visit. In cross- 
examination he clearly admits that he is not definite as to who incurred these 
expenses nor he enquired from D.C.C., P.C.C. or A.I.C.C. about the expenditure 
incurred ip this connection. 

Now coming to the rebuttal. I may point out that respondent No. 1 has 
examined himself as well as two other witnesses Sngarmal D.W. 7 and Shri 
Morarji Desai, D.W. 7 says that he is a munim of Shri Murarka Respondent 
No. 1. he admits that Shri Morarji Desai visited Nawalgarh but no expenses 
were incurred on his visit by respondent No. 1- Respondent No. 1 has also denied 
that any expenses were incurred by him or by anyone of his election agents about 
the arrangements and meetings of Shri Morarji Desai. Shri Morarji Desai who 
had been examined on commission has clearly said that respondent No. 1 did 
not incur any expenditure on his visit to Jhunjhunu Parliamentary Constituency 
and so far as he knows the P.C.C. incurred the expenses of his visit. 

From the above analytical survey of the evidence it is self evident that the 
petitioner has failed to establish that Shri Morarji Desai was called by respon- 
dent No. 1 and that the expenses for meetings and on other items were met by 
respondent No. I, As already observed that in order to prove a corrupt practice 
it is essential that the petitioner should establish it with reasonable certainty. 
But here the petitioner has adduced witnesses who have based their statements 
either on their personal whims or individual conjectures lacking at the same in 
material particulars. 

Having gone through the evidence in the light of the relevant law as well 
as the totality of circumstances, I am of the view that the petitioner has failed 
to discharge the burden of the issue upon him, I therefore, decide the issues 
No. 29 (a! and (bS against him. 


Issue No. 30 

It has been alleged by the petitioner that from 19th January, 1962 till 22nd 
February, 1962 respondent No. 1 had been runnine two messes one at Jhunjhunu 
and other at Nawalgarh and the expenses on these two messes which come to 
Rs, 12,000/- were incurred by him. To prove this the petitioner has examined 
10 witnesses which are Mohammed Jsmil P.W. 2, Ismail P.W. 3' Radheyshyam 
P.W. 5. Habib Khan PW. 8, Sitaram P.W. 9. Babnlal P.W. 10, Ghasiram P.W. 11, 
Durgashankar P.W. 14, Baohansingh P.W. 16 and Ridmalsingh P.W, 77. In his 



3530 ABE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24 , 1966 / PA US A 3, 1888 


[Part II- 


statement the petitioner has deposed that about 250 persons used to take meals at 
both the places. In his cross-examination he admits that he did not go and 
see these messes, but enquired from the cook and other persons. He has further 
deposed that the cooks were Prahlad and Heera from whom he heard about 
these messes. He also says that all the information which he could gather within 
15 days was kept in writing by him It is surprising that the witness who had 
got all the information recorded with him did not produce to corroborate his 
statement. He also admits that he has no personal knowledge about any corrupt 
practices committed by respondent No. 1. On his own admission it is pertinent 
to note that he knew about the messes and expenditure only through Prahlad 
and Heera, which is all hearsay and is accordingly inadmissible in evidence. 
As for the two witnesses Mohammed Ismail P.W. 2, and Ismail P.W. 3. Mohd. 
Ismail P.W. 2 has deposed that the mess continued for a month, in the beginning 
40 to 50 persons used to take meals but afterwards their number increased to 
300 to 400 and the average expenses per day were Rs. 200/- to Rs. 250/-. In 
cross-examination he admits that he neither knew the persons who used to work 
there in the mess nor he could mention name of a single person out of the 300 
to 400 persons who used to take their meals every day. It is strange that the 
witness who is a resident of Nawalgarh, could not know names of any of the 
persons who used to take meals or served in the mess. Similarly Ismail P.W. 3 
also could not give the name of any cook or any of persons who used to take meals 
nor he could mention date when mess started as such the testimony of both 
these witnesses deserves no credence. Habib Khan P W. 8’s statement is of no 
avail specially when he says that he does not know whether any mess was run 
bv Respondent No. 1 in Jhunjhunu. Sitaram P.W. 9. Babulaj P.W. 10, wad 
Gh a si ram P.W. 11 have been examined by the petitioner to prove the alleged 
mess set up in Jhunjhunu at Tibra Guest House. Sitaram P.W. 9 has deposed 
that 200 to 250 persons used to take meals in th e mess. In his cross-examina- 
tion he says that he did not go to take meals there but he saw the persons from 
a distance in the Guest House. It does not stand to reason that the witness, by 
mere seeing 'persons in the Guest House could infer that a mess was run, wherein 
200 to 250 nersons used to take meals. Babulal P.W. 10 and Ghasiram P.W. 11 
have alleged that a mess at Tibra Guest House Jhunjhunu was run by Respon- 
dent No. 1 but both of these hav e failed to substantiate that the expenses were 
really Incurred bv Respondent No. 1. Durgashankar P.W. 14 and Baehansin^h 
P.W 16 have deposed that there mas a mess and about 100 to 200 persons used 
to take meals but their testimony is impaired in cross-examination as they couH 
not substantiate the allegations that the mess had been run and th e expenses 
were incurred, by respondent No. 1. 

Coming to the hebuttal evidence I may point out that respondent No. 1 has 
himself appeared in the witnessbox and has denied in unequivocal terms tWt 
any mess in Jhunjhunu or Nawalgarh was run by him and the alleged expenses 
were incurred bv him, Sagarmal DW. 1 is the Munim of Respondent No. 1 who 
savs that Respondent No. 1 did not make any arrangements for mess either at 
Nawalgarh or at Jhunjhunu. 

From the above scrutiny of the evidence it is quite clear that the petitioner 
has failed to substantiate the allegation® that the Respondent had incurred ex- 
penses on two messes to the tune of Rs. 12,000. The issue is, therefore decided 
against the petitioner. 


Finding of Issue No. 31 

It is urged on behalf of the respondent No. 1 that the petition does not dis- 
close cause of action with respect to corrupt practices set out in various sub- 
paras of para No. 14. It may be pointed that the petition was received here on 
24th May, 1962. Since respondent No. 1 had made preliminary objection that 
some essential particulars about the allegations in the petition were lacking the 
Tribunal accordingly ordered amendment and the amended petition was Present- 
ed on 3rd October, 1963. 


I have gone through the relevant paragraphs of the amended petition and it 
will appear that the assertions made by the petitioner in his petition disclose 
cause of action entitling the petitioner to the relief claimed for. The Respondent 
No. 1 could not point out a single or more facts which do not disclose cause of 
action with respect, to the corrupt practices alleged by the petitioner The issue 
is accordingly decided against the respondent No 1 



sec. 8 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 34, . ./PAUSA 3* 1888 , 3531 


Finding of issue No. 32 

Issues No. 32 to 37 relate to recrimination. On 15th June, 1962 the respondent 
No. 1, u/s 97 of the Act filed statement of recrimination. The main contentions 
in the statement of recrimination are that Respondent No. 2 was a candidate both 
for Jhunjhunu Parliamentary Constituency as well as for Mendawa Assembly 
Constituency. The respondent No. 2 has filed his return of expenses in connec- 
tion with Jhunjhunu Parliamentary Constituency and according to return his 
expenses are Rs. 21,583.74 while his expenses in connection with his election to 
the State Assembly as incurred b.y him, as p:r return are Rs. 4,558-36 which are 
in addition to the sum of Rs. 21,583.74 stated to have been spent by him for the 
Parliamentary Constituency. It is then urged that according to rule 90 a candi- 
date for election to the Parliamentary Constituency is permitted to incur maxi- 
mum expenses only to the tune of Rs. 25,000, and is not entitled to incur expenses 
in excess of the said maximum under any circumstances. Since the Mandawa 
Assembly Constituency forms part of the Jhunjhunu Parliamentary Constituency 
thus the Respondent No, 2 should not have spent more than Rs. 25,000 while on 
his own showing he has incurred expenses totalling Rs. 26,142.10 np. Thus it was 
a contravention of section 77 of the Act and accordingly he is guilty of a corrupt 
practice under' provisions of section 123 of the Act. 

In reply respondent No. 2 has traversed all the grounds mentioned in the peti- 
tion and emphatically denied the allegations levelled against him. He has admit- 
ted that he was a candidate both for Mandawa Assembly Constituency as well 
as Jhunjhunu Parliamentary Constituency but the law does not enjoin upon a 
candidate standing both from a Parliamentary Constituency as well as Assembly 
Constituency (forming part of the same parliamentary constituency) and not 
to incur more than Rs. 25,000 for both the constituencies, and thus there was no 
contravention of section 77 of the Act and no corrupt practice has been commit- 
ted as envisaged in section 123 of the Act has been committed by him. 

I have given my best consideration to the point raised by Respondent No. 1. 
It will appear that part VIII of the Rules deal with election expenses. Rule 00 
provides that the maximum election expenses which a candidate can incur for 
Parliamentary Constituency shall not exceed Rs. 25,000 for which he is to keep 
an aecount as required u/s 77 of the Act. In the case of a constituency of 
State Assembly clause (ii) of Rule 90 provides that expenditure to be incurred 
in connection with any Assembly Constituency is to be kept u/s 77, it shall not 
exceed Rs 6,000 in the State of Rajasthan. In case had there been a limit for the 
maximum expenditure to be shown u/s 77 for a candidate standing for both Par- 
liamentary Constituency as well as State Assembly Constituency, there would 
have been a separate provision but there is no such restriction. Thus in view 
-of the relevant provision of the law as it stands, it cannot be said that Respon- 
dent No 2 had exceeded the prescribed limit for his election because expenditure 
incurred by him for the Assembly Constituency cannot be added to the expenses 
what he had incurred in the Parliamentary Constituency and, as such, there was 
no contravention of section 77 and no corrupt practice has been committed by 
Respondent No, 2. Tire issue is, therefore, decided against Respondent No. 1. 

FI ndng of Issue No, 34 

It has been urged by Respondent No. 1 that Respondent No. 2 spent a total 
sum of Rs. 15,000 for paying to the various assembly candidates in Jhunjhunu 
Parliamentary Constituency for furthering the prospects of his election as well 
as his election propaganda for the Parliamentary Constituency. As these expenses 
had been incurred and/or authorised by Respondent No. 2 he ought to have dis- 
closed them in his return of expenses filed by him. The particulars of the 
amount alleged to he paid by him are give^ in sub-paras (b), (c), (d) and (e) of 
para 3 of the recrimination application which are as under: — - 

1. Rs. 6,000 paid to Shri Shivnarain Chhachhia, a Swatantra Party candi- 

date for the Surajgarh Assembly constituency which forms part of 
the Jhunjhunu Parliamentary Constituency. 

2. Rs, 4,000 paid to Shri Chunnilal Gujar a Swatantra Party candidate for 

the Kbetri Assembly Constituency which also forms part of the 
Jhunjhunu Parliamentary Constituency. 

3. Rs. 1,600 paid to Shri Banshidhar Sharma a Swatantra Party candidate 

for Fatehpur Assembly constituency. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966/PAUsA 8 1338 


3533 


[Part H- 


4 Rs. 4,000 paid to Shri Jlvarajsingh a Swatantra Party candidate for the 
Gudha Assembly Constituency which also forms part of the Jhun- 
jhunu Parliamentary Constituency. 

On a perusal of the evidence adduced by Respondent No. 1 it appears that to 
prove the above alleged four payments, no evidence has been produced bv Res- 
pondent No. 1 about payments with respect to part (d!) to Shri Banshldhar 
Sharma and part (c) to Shri Jivarajsingh of Rs. 1,500 and Rs, 4,000 respectively. 
A# for allegation of payments under (b) to Shri Shivnaram of Rs. 6,000 and (c) 
to Shri Chunnilal Rs. 4,000, Respondent No. 1 has examined only one witness 
Kedarmal R.W. 1. The witness has deposed that a sum of Rs. 6,000 was given to 
Shivnarain in his presence. But he is a chance witness as he has deposed that 
Me was taken to Respondent No, 2 for getting his car approved by Respondent 
No. 2 for his election purpose but the car was rejected. It is inconceivable that 
an amount for election propaganda would have been paid to Shivnarain by Res- 
pondent No. 2 in the presence of a stranger who had met him causally for the 
jQn*t time. As for payment of Rs. 4,000 to Shri Chunnilal Respondent No, 1 has 
examined Prakashchand who says that Rs. 4,000 were given to Chunnilal by 
Respondent No. 2 In hl$ presence. But In cross-examination he says that the 
notes were not counted and that Maliram and one or two more persons were also 
present. But neither Maliram has been examined nor any of the other persons 
who are alleged to have been present on the spot have been examined. In rebut- 
tal Respondent No 2 has appeared in the witness-box and has denied in clear terms 
the payment of the alleged sums to the above named persons. 


Coming to the expenses of Rs. 1.500 as alleged to be incurred according to 
spb-para (t) of para 3, it is urged that during the period between 19th January, 
1#02 to 20th February. 1962 Respondent No. 2 had held meetings at the following 
l4acee ) 


Fatehpur, Ramgarh, Nawalgarh, Bissau, Surajgarh, Jhunjhunu, Alsisar, 
Gangiasar, Malsisar, Mandawa, Mukandgarh, Mehendsar, 

a*d several other places where he made all the arrangements for such meetings 
and incurred and/or authorised the expenses and such expenses would easily come 
to Rs. 1,500. 

On a perusal of the evidence on record there is evidence only about a meeting 
held at Nawalgarh and that is also not reliable. In this connection Respondent 
No. 1 has examined Ramswaroop R.W. 8 who has deposed that a meeting was 
held at Nawalgarh and arrangements for the meeting were made by one Hariram 
and a sum of Rs. 150 was incurred on the arrangements which was paid by 
Thakur Sahib to Hariram. He further says that Biriusingh and Th. Madansingh 
also used to work for Th. Raghuveersingh. From the statement of Ramswroop 
it is obvious that Hariram was the main witness who made all arrangements and 
that the amount was also paid to him. It is strange that Respondent No. 1, instead 
d examining Hariram who could be the main witness for proving the meeting 
and alleged expenses should have left him and examined Ramswroop R.W. 8 a 
casual witness and his testimony cannot be relied. 

It may be pertinent to note that it Is alleged that meetings were held at seve- 
ral places but only names of 12 places where meetings were held have been given 
arid for meetings at the twelve places except for meeting at Nawalgarh, there is 
not an iota of evidence to prove that Respondent No. 2 held meeting. Respondent 
No. 1 has accordingly failed to prove that Rs. 1,500 were incurred by Respondent 
No. 2 on the meetings. 

There is also an allegation by Respondent No. 1 appearing in sub-section (g) 
of para 3 for running a mess at Bissau by Respondent No. 2. It is urgent that a 
mess was run by Respondent No. 2 at Bissau from 19th January, 1962 to 28tb 
February, 1962 and expenses incurred on the mess have not been' shown in the 
return of expeness filed by Respondent No. 2, which at a very conservative esti- 
mate, would amount to Rs. 7,000. I have gone through the evidence led by Res- 
pondent No. 1 but out of 8 witnesses examined by Respondent No. 1 not a single 
witness has said anything about the mess as alleged to have been run by Respon- 
dent No. 2 at Bissau and the expenses incurred by him. On the other hand Res- 
pondent No, 2 has appeared in the witness-box in rebuttal and hag emphatically 
denied the allegation that a mess was run by him at Bissau and that he incurred 
any expenses on the alleged mess. 



3kg. THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966/PAUSA 8, 1888 


From the above discussion It is obvious that the expenditure by Respondent 
No. 1 as alleged in para 3 and its sub-paras of his recrimination application are 
not proved. The issue is accordingly decided against respondent No. 1, 

Finding of Issue No, 35 

This Issue relates to expenses alleged to have been incurred by respondent No. 
2 in para 4 sub-paras (a) to (k) of recrimination. I have examined the evidence 
as adduced by the petitioned but there is no evidence to support the allegations 
made under sub-paras (a) to (k) of para 4 except for para (e). It is alleged that 
Respondent No. 2 paid a sum of Rs. 1000|-to one Shri Basantilal for the purpose of 
construction of a school building in village Khakada. In support of this allegation 
Basantilal R.W, 3 has been examined by Respondent No. 1 who says that Respon- 
dent No, 2 had come to Mahabeer Purohlt and it was through him that he was 
called and a sum of Rs. 100 was paid but it is strange enough that Mahabeer 
Purohit who was the main witness has not been examined. In his cross-examina- 
tion the witness has deposed that though the amount was received for construction 
of a room in the school but the witness did not maintain any list of persons who 
contributed for the school, nor there is any Committee or body to lookafter the 
school. The statement of this witness accordingly has no material bearing on the 
point and no credence can be attached to it. Since the respondent No. 1 failed to 
produce any evidence to prove the allegations made in para 4 and its sub-paras, 
the issue is decided against him. 

Finding of Issue No. 36 

This Issue relates to para No. 4 of recrimination with specific reference to the 
acts of bribery alleged to have been committed by respondent No. 2 under various 
sub-paras of para 4. In my finding of issue No. 35 I have already stated that there 
is no evidence on record with reference to any of the allegations referred in sub- 
paras (a) to (k) of para No. 4 except for the allegation in sub-para (e) which is 
also not proved. The result is that the issue is decided against respondent No. 1. 

Finding of Issue No. 33 

It is urged by the Respondent No, 1 that the Respondent No. 2 has shown more 
expenses for the Assembly election than actually incurred and less for Parliament- 
ary seat. As already observed in the finding of the above issue, the expenses 
incurred by respondent No. 2 for both the constituencies as per return and furnish- 
ed by him are as under: — 

1. Jhunjhunu Parliamentary Constituency Rs. 21,583.74 

2. Mandawa Assembly Constituency Rs. 4,558.36 

Total Rs. 26,142.10 

It will appear that the expenses incurred by Respondent No. 2 as per return 
are much less than the maximum prescribed limit as permissible under Rule 90. 
But as alleged by the Respondent No, 1 that the expenses as per return as shown 
by the Respondent No. 2 are not correct, the burden lay heavily upon Respondent 
No. 1 which he has failed to discharge and the issue is found accordingly. 

Finding of Issue No. 37 

This recrimination application was presented on 26-6-62 u/s 97 of the Act before 
the Member, Election Tribunal. Jhunjhunu. The petition and relevant papers were 
received from the Election Commission on 24-5-62 and the petition was fixed for 
hearing on 1-6-62. 

As per record of this petition, it is evident that on 15-6-62 an application along 
with notice of intention to recriminate by the 1st Respondent and statement of 
recrimination were presented by Shri M. P. Jain Advocate before the Munsarim of 
the Court. But on the said date the Election Tribunal was closed and the Member 
of the Tribunal was also out of headquarters on leave. The learned counsel for 
Respondent No. 2 has objected to this presentation before the Munsarim, who. it is 
urged was not authorised to receive the notice. But it may be pointed that the 
civil courts had been closed for the period on account of summer vacation as 
declared by the Hon’ble High Court from 4-6-02 to 1-7-62 which was also ‘a period 
of vacation for the Election Tribunal. In this view of the matter I rely on E.L.R. 
13 Page 385 and accordingly a notice of Intention to recriminate and the recrimina- 
tion petition could have been even presented on the reopening day of the civil 



3534 1HS GAZETTE 07 INDIA: DECEMBER 24, 1966/P AUSA 6, 1888 


[Pari II- 


courts i.e. 2nd July, 1902. As for th e presentation before a proper authority, it 
may be pointed that when the Member, Election Tribunal resumed on 25-6-62 it 
was put up before him and orders were passed on 26-6-62, Thus it will appear 
that not only the recrimination petition was within limitation but it was a proper 
presentation before the Member, Election Tribunal. The issue is, therefore, decid 
ed against Respondent No. 2. 

Finding of Issue No. 38. 

The result of the above findings is that the petitioner has failed to prove that 
any corrupt practice were committed by Respondent No. 1 or his election agents 
or any other person with his consent. The petitioner hal also (ailed to substantiate 

any grounds in his petition which would justify the declaration of election of 
Respondent No. 1 as void, or any other relief claimed for. 

Order 

The Election Petition, therefore, fails and is hereby dismissed with this further 
direction that the petitioner will pay Rs. 500/- as costs to the contesting Respon- 
dent No. 1. The other respondents would neither pay nor receive any costs of this 
Election Petition. The recriminatory petition is also dismissed with costs. 

Sd./- M. Raza Ali Khan, 

Member, Election Tribunal, 
Jhunjhunu. 


Pronounced in the open court this 8th day of November, 1966. 

Sd,/- M, Raza Ali Khan, 

Member, Election Tribunal, 

Jhunjhunu. 
[No. 82/269/62.]. 


Delhu the 9th December 1966 


S.O. 3887. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 21 and sub-section (1) of section 
22 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby appoints, In 
respect of each of the Parliamentary Constituencies in the Union Territory of Himachal Pradesh 
as determined by the Delimitation Commission in its Order No. 19, dated the 18th November, 
1966, and specified in column r of the Table below, — 

(а) the officer specified in the corresponding entry in column 2 of the Baid Table to be th e 

Returning Officer; and 

(б) the officers specified in the corresponding entry in column 3 of the said Table to be 

the Assistant Returning Officers. 

Table 


Name of the Consti- 
tuency 

Returning Officer 

Assistant Returning Officer 

1 

2 

3 

I, Mahasu . 

Deputy Commissioner, Mahasu. 

1. Deputy Commissioner, 
Kinnaur, . 

2. Deputy Commissioner, 

Kulu. 

3. Revenue Assistant, Mahasu. 

4. Sub-Divisional Officer (Civil), 
Rampur, 

5. Magistrate 1st Class, Theog. 

6. Magistrate 1st ClasB, Rohru. 



Sec. 8 (H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966/I'AUSA 3, 1888 - 3535 



2. Simla , . . Dtouy Cj.nnissioner, Simla. 1. Deputy Commissioner 

Mahasu. 

2. Deputy Commissioner, Sirmur. 

3. General Assistant, Simla."! 

4. Magistrate ist Class, Solan. 

3. Hamirpur . . , Diputy Commissioner, Kangra. 1. Deputy Commissioner, 

Bilaspur. 

2. General Assistant, Kangra. 

4 . Kangra . . . Deputy Commissioner, Kangra. General Assistant, Kangra. 

5. Chamba . . . Deputy C ommissiotior, Chamba. i. Deputy Commissioner, 

Kangra. 

2. Deputy Commissioner,! 
Lanaul-Spiri. 

3. Deputy Commissioner, Kulu. 

4. Revenue Assistant, Chamba. 

5. Sub-Divisional Officer (Civil) 

at Kaza. 

6. Naib Tahsildar, Pangi, 

6, Mandi . . Deputy Commissioner, Mandi. I. Deputy Commissioner, 

Kangra. 

2. Revenue Assistant, Mandi.! 

3. Revenue Assistant, Kangra. 

rNo. 434/HP/66] 

Delhi , the 14 th December , 1966 

S. O- 3888 — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 21 and sub-section 

(1) of section 22 of th; Rmresontation of the People Act, tpst, and in supersession of its previous 
notification No. 43 j/MT/66, dated the 22nd June, 1966, the Election Commission hereby appoints, 
in respect of eachofthe Parliamentary constituencies in the State of Maharashtra, specified in 
column 1 of the Table below: — 

(a) the officer specified in the corresponding entry in column 2 of the said Table to be the 
Returning Officer, and 

(b) the officer specified in the corresponding entries in column 3 of the said Table to be 
the Assistant Returning Officers: 

Ta&le 

Name of the Returning Officer Assistant Returning Officers 

Constituency 

1 ^ 3 3 

1. Rajapur . Collector of Ratnagiri (1) Pram Officer, Sawantwadi Division, 

Sawantwadi. 

(2) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector, 

Ratnagiri. 

(3) Prant Officer, Ratnagiri Prant. 

(4) Special Deputy Collector, Ten- 
ancy Appeals (II), Ratnagiri at Kanka- 

vali. 







3536 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1986/PAUSA ?, 1888 


[Part II— 


i 


2 


3 


2# Ratnagiri , . Collector of Ratnagiri. (i) Special Deputy Collector, Tenancy 

Appeals (I), Ratnagiri. 

(2) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector 
Ratnagiri. 

(3) Prant Officer, Chiplun "Prant. 

(4) Prant Officer, Dapoli Prant. 

3.Kolaba . . Collector of Kolaba, Ali- (i) Prant Officer, Mahad Prant. 

bag. (2) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector 

Kolaba at Alibag. 

(3) Prant Officer, Alibag. 

(4) Prant Officer, Panvel Prant. 


4. Bombay South 


5. Bombay Central 
South. 


Collector of Bombay, (1) Special Land Acquisition Officer 
and Bombay Suburban No. 2, Bombay. 

District. 

(2) Assistant Commissioner (Revenue), 

Bombay Division, 

(3) Special Land Acquisition Officer 

No. 4, Bombay. 

(4) Deputy Collector, Bombay & Resident 

Deputy Collector, Bombay Suburban 
Distt. 

Collector of Bombay & (1) Deputy Collector, Sales Tax, Bombay, 

Bombay Suburban Dls- (2) Deputy Collector Bombay & Resident 
trict. Deputy Collector Bombay Suburban 

District. 


(3) Assistant Commissioner (General) 

Bombay Division. 

(4) Special Land Acquisition Officer 

No. 6, Bombay. 


6. Bombay Central 


7. Bombay North 
West. 


8. Bombay North 

East 


Additional Collector, (1) Deputy Collector Leave Reserve 
Bombay Suburban Dis- Commissioner’s Office, Bombay, 

trict. j Division. 

(2) Special Land Acquisition Officer 

No. 5, Bombay, 

(3) Assistant Commissioner (Spply) 

Bombay Division. 

(4) Special Land Acquisition Officer 

Nol 7, Bombay. 

(5) Additional Collector, Income Tax 

Recoveries, Bombay . 


Additional Collector. 
Bombay, Suburban 
District. 


Deputy Commissioner, 
Bombay Division. 


(J) Deputy Collector Leave Reserve,- 
Bombay Suburban District. 

(2) Additional Deputy Collector, Bombay 

Suburban District. 

(3) District Deputy Collector, Bombay 

Suburban District. 


(1) Special Land Acquisition 

No. 8, Bombay. 

(2) Special Land Acquisition 

(High Ways), Bombay. 

(3) Prant Officer, Thana. 


Officer 

Officer 


(4) special Deputy Collector, for Tenancy 
Appeals, Thana. 



tile, 8 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966/PAUSA 3, 1888 3537 


1 


2 


3 


o, Bhivvandi . Collector of Thana. (1) Pram Officer, Panvel Division at 

Panvel. 

(2) Administrator, Ulhasnagar 

(3) Prapt Officer, Thana Prant, Thana, 

(4) Prant Officer, Bhiwandi Prant, Thana 

(5) Prant Officer, Haveli Division, Poona, 

10 . Dchanu Additional Collector, (1) Special Land Acquisition Officer 

Thana. Upper Valterna Scheme, Thana. 

(2) Prant Officer, Dahanu Prant, Dahanu. 

(3) Special Land Acquisition Officer, 

Second Milk Colony, Dahanu. 

(4) Special Land Acquisition Officer, 

Ulhas Valley Project, Thana. 

(j) Prant Officer, Nasik, 


*1. Nasik . • Collector of Nasik. (1) Prant Officer, Nasik, 




(2) Prant Officer, Niphad. 

(3) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector, 

Nasik, 

12. Malcgaon . 

. Collector of Nasik. 

(1) Prant Officer, Malegaon Division, 

Malcgaon. 

(2) Land Acquisition Officer, Defence 

Project, Nasik. 

(3) Special Deputy Collector, Tenancy 

Appeals, Nasik. 

13. Nandurbar - 

. Collector of Dhulia. 

(1) Prant Officer, Dhulia. 

(2) Prant Officer, Nandurbar. 

(3) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector, 

Dhulia. 

14. Dhulia 

. Collector of Dhulia. 

(t) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector, 

Dhulia. 

(2) Prant Officer, Dhulia. 

(3) Prant Officer, Amalncr Division. 

(4) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector, 

Jalgaon. 

15. Jalgaon 

. Collector of J algaon , 

(1) Prant Officer, Chalisgaon Division. 

(2) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector, 

Jalgaon. 

(3) Resident Deputy Collector, Jalgaon. 

(4) Land Acquisition Officer, Defence 
Project, Bhusawal. 

16 . Buldana 

. Collector of Buldana 

(1) Prant Officer, Jalgaon Division. 

(2) Land Acquisition Officer, Defence 
Project, Bhusawal. 

(3) Sub-Divisional Officer Malkapur. 

(4) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector, 
Buldana. 



3538 


CL 



17 . Kho tngaon 


18. Akola 


19. Amravati 


20 . Rarrtfofc 


21 . Nagpur 


23 . Bhandara , 


23. Chimur 


OF : 24, /PAU 3 A 8 , 1888 [Part IT- 


2 


3 


. Collector of Buldana. (1) Set-Divisional Officer, Mohkar. 

(2) Sub-Divisional Officer, Khamgson. 

(3) Sub -Divisional Officer, Jalgaon. 

(4) Sub-Divisional Officer, Wasliim. 

. Collector of Akola.T (1) Sub-Divisional Officer, Akola. 

(2) Sub-Divisional Officer, Akot. 

(3") Leave Reserve Deputy Collector, 
Akola. 

(4) Sub-Divisional Officer, Balapur. 

(5) Sub-Divisional Officer, Mangrulpir. 

(6) Sub-Divisional Officer, Murtazapur. 

. Collector of Amravatf.’ (l) Sub-Divisional Officer, Daryapur. 

(2) Sub-Divisional Officer, Achalpur. 

(3) Sub-Divisional Officer, Amravati. 

(4) Nazul Officer, Amravati 

(5) Sub-Divisional Officer, Chandur. 

(6) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector, 
Amravati. 

. Collector of Nagpur. (r) Sub-Divisional Officer, Achalpur. 1 

(2) Sub-Divisional Officer, Morahi. 

(3) Deputy Collector, Land Reforms, 

Nagpur.^ 

(4) Sub-Divisional Officer, Katol. 

(5) Sub-Divisional Officer, Saoner. 

(6) Sub-Divisional Officer, Ramtek. 

. Collector of Nagpur. (1) Sub-Divisional Officer, Umrer. 

(2) Special Land Acquisition Officer 

N. I. *T., Nagpur. 

(3) Rent Controller and Deputy Collector, 

Nagpur. 

(4) Nazul Officer, Nagpur. 

(5) Deputy Collector and City Magistrate, 

Nagpur. 

(6) Sub-Divisional Officer, Nagpur. 

, Collector of Bhandara, (r) Sub-Divisional 'Officer, Bhandara. 

(2) Sub-Divisional Officer, Gondla. 

(3) Special Deputy Collector, Land 

Reforms, Bhandara. 

. Collector of Bhandara. (1) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector 

Bhandara. 

(2) Sub-Divisional Officer, Sakoli. 

(3) Special Deputy Collector, Land 

Reforms, Chanda. 

(4) Sub-Divisional Officer, BrabmapurL 

(5) Sub-Divisional Officer, Warora. 




MC. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24, 1966/PAUSA S, 1888 3539 



2 


3 


24. Chanda 


25. Wardha 


26. Yeotmal 


27. Nanded 


28. Latur 


29. Parbhani 


30, Jalna , 


. Collector of Chanda, (1) Sub-Divisional Officer, Gadchiroll. 

(2) Sub-Divisional Officer, Sironch. 

at Aheri. 

(3) Deputy Collector, Rajura. 

(4) Sub-Divisional Officer, Chanda. 

(5) Sub-DiviBional Officer, Warora. 

. Collector of Wardha. (1) Sub-Divisional Officer, Arvl. 

(2) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector, 

Wardha. 

(3) Sub-Divisional Officer, Wardha. 

(4) Sub-DiviBional Officer, Hinganghat. 

(5) Sub-Divisional Officer, Wani. 

(6) Sub-Divisional Officer, Kolapur. 


, Collector of Yeotmal. (1) Sub-Divisional Officer, Kolapur. 

(2) Sub-Divisional Officer, Yeotmal. 

(3) Sub-Divisional Officer, Darwha. 

(4) Sub-Divisional Officer, Pusad. 

(5) Resident Deputy Collector, Yeotmal. 

. Collector of Nanded. (1) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector, 

Nanded. 

(2) Deputy Collector Land Reforms' 

Nanded. 

(3) Deputy Collector, Nanded. 

(4) Deputy Collector, Dcgloor. 

. Colletor of Osmanabad. (1) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector, 

Nanded. 

(2) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector' 

Parbhani. 

(3) Deputy Collector, Sailu. 

(4) Special Land Acquisition Officer, 

Osmanabad. 

(5) Deputy Collector, Udgir. 

(6) Deputy Collector, Latur. 

. Collector of Parbhani. (1) Deputy Collector Land ceilings 

Parbhani.' 1 

(2) Deputy Collector, Hingoll, 

(3) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector, 

Parbhani. 

(4) Deputy Collector, Sailu. 


. Collector of Aurangabad. (1) Deputy Collector, Jalna. 

(2) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector’ 

Aurangabad. 

(3) Special Land Acquisition Officer, 

Jayakwadi Project, Aurangabad. 

(4) Assistant Collector, Bhir. 



3540 THE GAZETTE of INDIA: DECEMBER 24 , 196 B/PAUSA 3 , 1388 


[Part H— 


i 


2 


3 


31. Aurangabad) 


32. Bhii . 


33. Osmanabad 


34. Sholapur 


33. Pandhirput. 


J6. Ahmednagar 


37. Kopitgaon 


Collector of Aurangabad. (l) Deputy Collector, Vaijapur. 

(2) Special Land Acquisition Officer, 
Aurangabad. 

( 3 ) Project Officer, Urban Community 

Development Pilot Project, Auranga- 
bad. 

(4) Assistant Collector, ij Aurangabad. 

(5) Special Land Acquisition Officer, 

Jayakwadi Project, Aurangabad. 

Collector of Bhir. (t) Deputy Collector, Ambajegai. 

(2) Assistant Collector, Bhir. 

(3) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector, 

Bhir. 

(4) Deputy Collector, Land Reforms* 

Bhir. 

(5) Deputy Collector, Ambajegai. 

Collector of Osmausbad. (t) Deputy Collector, Latur. 

(2) Assistant Collector, Osmanabad 

( 3 ) Special Land Acquisition Officer, 

Osmanabad. 

(4) Deputy Collector, Udgir. 

(5) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector, 

Osmanabad. 


Collector of Sholapur. (i) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector, 

Osmanabad. 

(2) Special Deputy Collector for Tenancy 
Appeals, Sholapur. 

(3) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector, 

Sholapur. 

(4) Prant Officer, Sholapur Division, 

Sholapur. 

Collector of Sholapur. (l) Prant Officer, Pandharpnr Division 

Pandharpur. 

(2) Special Deputy Collector (Land 

Ceiling) for S. M. S. F. C. A. P. 
Ltd., Malshiras. 

(3) Prant Officer, Sholapur. 

(4) Prant Officer, Madha Division, 


Collector of Ahmednagar,[| (i) Prant Officer, Parncr Division, Ahmcd- 

nagar. 

(2) Leave Reserve Deputy .Collector, 

Ahmednagar. 

(3) Prant Officer, Rahuri Division, Ahroed- 

nagai. 

Collector of Afrtq-dnagar, (1) Deputy Collector and Agricultural 

Land Tribunal, Nagar Taluka. 

(2) Special Deputy Collector for Tenancy 

Appeals, Ahmednagar. 

(3) Special Land Acquisition Officer, 

Mula Project, Ahmednagar, 

(4) Prant Officer, Sangamner Division 



Sec. 301)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966/PAUSA 8, 1888 


I 

2 

3 

38, Khed 

. Collector of Poona. 

(1) Special Deputy Collector for Tenancy 

Appeals, Poona. 

(2) Prant Officer, Junnar Division’ 

Khed. 

(3) Assistant Commissioner (Revenue), 

Poona Division, Poona. 

(4) Special Land Acquisition Officer, 

(9), Poona, 

(5) Deputy Collector and Agricultural 

Land Tribunal, Baramati. 

(6) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector 

Commissioner’s Officer, Poona. 

39. Poona , 

Collector of Poona. 

(1) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector 

Poona. 

(2) Assistant Commissioner (Land Ceilings, 

Poona. 

(3) Special Land Acquisition Officer 

(5), Poona. 

(4) Assistant Commissioner (Supply) 

Poona Division, Poona. 

(j) Additional Sub-Divisional Magistrate, 
Poona. 

(6) Deputy Collector of Sales Tax Re- 
coveries, Poona Division. 

40. Baramati 

Additional Collector, Poona (1) Special Deputy Collector (Land 

Ceiling) for S. M. S. F. & C. A. P. 
Ltd., Malshiras. 

(2) Prant Officer, Madha Division. 

(3) tDeputy Collector of Income Tax 

Recoveries, Poona. 

(4) Special Lund Acquisition Officer, 

(Southern Railway), Poona . 

(5) Deputy Collector for Land Ceilingj 

Walchandnagar, 

(6) Prant Officer, Baramati Division, 

Baramati. 

41 . Satara} 

Collector of Satara. 

(1) Prant Officer, Phaltan Division, 

Phaltan. 

(2) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector, 

Satara. 

(3) Prant Officer, Satara. 

(4) Prant Officer, Mahablcshwar Division* 

Mahableshwar, 

42 . Karad 

, Collector of Satara, 

(1) Prant Officer, Mahableshwar Division, 

Mahableshwar. 

(2) Prant Officer, Satara Division, Satara. 

(3) Additional Special Land Acquisition 

Officer, Koyna Project, Satarii. 

(4) Prant Officer, Walva Division, Sangli. 

43, Sangli 

. Collector of Sangli. 

(1) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector, 
Sangli. 

(2) Prant Officer, Miraj Division, Miraj’ 

(3) Special Land Acquisition Officer, 

Broad Guage , Miraj. 




3542 THE GA2ETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, X9B9/PAUSA 3. 1888 


[Tart TT . 


1 


2 


3 


44. Hatkanangale. 


45. Kolhapur 


. Collector of Kolhapur. (1) Special Deputy Collector Land Ceilings* 

Kolhapur. 

(2) Agricultural Lands Tribunal, Hatkan- 

angale. 

(3) Prant Officer, Shahu Wadi Division, 

Kolhapur. 

(4) Prant Officer, Kanvir Division, 

Kolhapur. 

. Collector of Kolhapur. (1) Prant Officer, Sawantvvadi Division, 

Sawantwadi. 

(2) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector, 

Kolhapur. 

(3) Prant Officer, Karvir Division, Kolha- 

pur 

(4) Prant Officer, Gadhinglaj Division. 


Note: — The reference to “Prant Officer” or Deputy Collector” shall in respect of any 
Prant which is for the time being In charge of an Assistant Collector be taken to be a 
reference to the Assistant Collector. 


[No. 434/MT/66 (2)] 

By Order, 

PRAKASH NARAIN, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi , the 14 th December 1960 

S.O. 3889. — In pursuance of sub-section (5) of Section 6 of the Haj Committee 
Act. 1959 (51 of 1959) the elections, at the meeting of the Haj Committee held 
on the 23rd October, 1906. of Shri M, Fflki, Chairman, and Shri Shahid Kakhiri 
and Shri Khattal Muaa Fhanlband, as Vice-Chairmen of the Haj Committee for 
the nest terms of Office, are hereby notified. 

[No. M.II. 1181(41) /60.J 

V. A. KIDWAI, 

Director (PV)- 


fosfr, 1 4 1966 

qRo ?fto 3890 — ffiSf Tfafa qfsrftqTl, I 959 ( 1959 ^7 5l) 7?f tTRl 6 
TOPH ( 5 ) qft ^ nftfcT 2 3 tfi&K 1966 JraTd 7 T 

tpl OT sfr sflT 3T3WFT $ TT sft STiffa 7f|T 

tfTT 3TCT krfW'TfWT fw 'STldT % I 

[ir° 11. 1181 ( 4 1 ) / 6 6 J 
t£o 

ftw I 





HIC, B{ |] . GA ; OF INDIA : DECEM L 24, 1966/PAUSA 9, 1888 3543 

L ' , 1 i 1 ' 1 1 , ; — .. 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 19th December 1960 

S.O. 3891. — In pursuance of clause (1) of article 239 of the Constitution and 
all other powers enabling him in this behalf and in supersession of the notifications, 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs, No. S.O. 2803 dated the 
23rd September, 1963 No. S.O. 2672 dated the 29th July, 1964, and in partial modi-, 
flcation of — 

(i) the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of States. 

No. 104-J (S.R.O. 460) dated the 24th August, 1960, in so far as it 
relates to the exercise of powers and discharge of functions under the 
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898), by the Lieutenant 
Governor of Himachal Pradesh and the Chief Commissioner of Tripura; 
and 

(ii) the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Home 

Affairs No, F. 2/1/57-Judl. II, dated the 3rd June, 1957, in so far as. 
it relates to the exercise of powers and discharge of functions under 
the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898), by the Chief Com-, 
missloner of Manipur; 

the President hereby directs that the Lieutenant Governors of the Union territories 
of Delhi and HImaehal Pradesh and the Chief Commissioners of the Union terri- 
tories of Manipur and Tripura shall, subject to the control of the President and 
until further orders, exercise the powers and discharge the functions of the appro- 
priate Government under section 401 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 
of 1898), within their respective territorial jurisdictions, except in respect of — 

(a) cases involving the sentence of death where such sentence has not been 
commuted; 

(b) cases where the sentence is for an offence against any law relating to any 
of the matters enumerated in List I in the Seventh Schedule to the 
Constitution; and 

(c) cases where the order referred to in sub-section (4A) of section 401 of 
the said Code is passed under any law relating to any of the matters 
enumerated in List I In the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution. 

[No. F.2/11/00-UTL.J 
P. N. VASUDEVAN, Dy. Secy, 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 9th December 1960 

S.O. 3892. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 6(1) of the Cinema-, 
tograph Act, 1962, and sub-rule (3) of rule 8 read with sub-rule 2 of rule 9 of the 
Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1958, the Central Government hereby appoints 
the following persons after consultation with the Central Board of Film Censors, 
as a member of the Advisory Panel of the said Board at Madras with immediate 
effect. 

1. Shri M. K. Thanikachalam. 

2. Shri R. Jawahar, 

3. Shri K. E. Arunachalam. 

4. Shri Soora Nagamiah Chetty. 

5. Shri P. Unni Krishnan. 


INo. 11/3/85-FC.]’ 



[Part II— 


3544 GAZETTE OF INDIA I DECEMBER 24, 190«/rAlJS\ 3. 1888 


New Delhi, the 12 th December 1906 

S.O. 3893. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5(1) of the Cinema- 
tograph Act, 1952, and sub-rule (3) of rule 8 read with sub-rule 2 of rule 9 of the 
' Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1958, the Central Government hereby appoints 
the following persons after consultation with the Central Board of Film Censors, 
as a member of the Advisory Panel of the said Board at Bombay with immediate 
.effect. 

1. Kumari Vatsala Nadkarnl. 

2. Smt. Nirmala Srivastava. 


[No. 11/4/66-FC.] 


New Delhi, the 13 th December 1966 

S.O. 3894. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5(1) of the Cinema- 
tograph Act, 1952, and sub-rule (3) of rule 9 read with sub-rule 2 of rule 9 and sub- 
rule (3) of rule 8 of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1968, the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby re-appoints Smt. Nalini Debl Routroy after consultation with the 
Central Board of Film Censors, as a member of the Advisory Panel of the said 
Board at Calcutta with immediate effect. 

fNo. 11/3/66-FC.] 


S O. 3895. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5(1) of the Cinema- 
tograph Act, 1952, and sub-rule (3) of rule 8 read with sub-rule 2 of rule 9 of the 
'Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1968, the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shri Parltosh Sen after consultation with Central Board of Fllrn Censors, 
as a member of the Advisory Panel of the said Board at Calcutta with immediate 
effect. 


[No. ll/3/68-FC.(l 


New Delhi, the 17 th December 1960 

S.O. 3896. — in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5(1) of the Cinema- 
tograph Act, 1952, and sub-rule (3) of rule 9 read with sub-rule (21 of rule 9 and 
sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1958, the Central 
Government hereby re-appoints Smt. Sarojini Vardappan, after consultation with 
■the Central Board of Film C^nsprs, as a member of the Advisory Panel of the said 
.Board at Madras with Immediate effect. 


[No. F. 11/3/65-FC.l 


ORDERS 

Now Delhi, the 13th December, 1966. 

S. O.3897. — In pursuance of the directions issued under the provisions of each 
of the enactments specified in the First Schedule annexed hereto, the . Central Government 
after considering the recommendations of the Film’ Advisory Board, Bombay hereby 
approves the films specified in column 2 of the Second Schedule annexed hereto in Gujarati to be 
of the description specified against each in column 6 of the said Second Schedule. 


The First Schedule 


' ■ 1 

(1) Sub-Section <4) of Section 12 and Section 16 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (Cen- 
tral Act XXXVII of 1952). 


(2) Sub-Section (3) of Section ; and Section 9 of the Saurashtra Cinemas (Regulation 
Act, 1953 (Saurashtra Act , XVII of 1953). 


(3) Sub-Section (4) of Section 5 and Section 9 of the Bombay Cinemas (Regulation) Act, 
1953 (Saurashtra Act XVII of 1953). 



SEC. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1968/PAUSA 8 , 1S88 > 3545 ; 




The Second Schedule 


31 . Title of the 

No. film 

Length 
35 mm 

Name Name 

of the of the 

Applicant Producer 

Whether a Scientific film 
or a film intended for edu- 
cational purposes or a film 
dealing with news and 
current events or a docu- 
mentary film. 

I 2 

3 

4 3 

6 

1 Mahitichitra No. 73 

263 M 

Director of Information, 
Government of Guja- 
rat, Ahmedabad. 

Film dealing with news 
and current events (For 
release in Gujarat Cir- 
cuit only). 

2 Mahitichitra No. 74 

241 M 

Do. 

Do. 



[No. F. 24/1/66-FP App. 1x41.] 

S.O. 3898. — In pursuance of the Directions issued under the provisions of the' 
enactments specified in the First Schedule 5 annexed hereto the Central Government after 
considering the recommendations of the Film Advisory Board, Bombay hereby appr9vesthe film 
specified in Column 2 of the Second Schedule annexed hereto in all its language versions to be Of 
the description specified against it in column 6 of the said Second Schedule. 



The First Schedule 


(1) Sub-Section (4) of the Section 12 and Section 16 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 " 
(Central Act XXXVII of 1952). 

(2) Sub-Section (3) of Section 5 and Section 9 of the Bombay Cinemas (Regulation) Act,. 
1953 , (Bombay Act XI of 1953). 

(3) Sub-Section (4) of Section 5 and Section 9 of the Saurashtra Cinemas (Regulation) 
Act, 1953 (Saurashtra Act XVII of 1933). 



The Second Schedule 


SI. Title of the 

No. film 

Length 
35 mm 

Name Name 

of the Of the 

Applicant Producer 

Whether a scientific film' 
or a film intended for edu- 
cational purposes or a 

film dealing with news and 
current events or docu- 
mentary film. 

1 2 

3 

4 5 

6 

1 Maharashtra News 

No. 174 

295 M 

Directorate of Publicity, 
Govt, of Maharashtra, 
Bombay. 

Film dealing with news 
and current events (For 
relcasc jn Maharashtra 
Circuit only) 


[No. F.24/1/66-FP App,H40.] 

D. R.KHANNADy. Secy 


3546 'I'MK GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1996/PAUSA 3 , 1888 [Part R- 


MINISTRY OF FOOD, AGRICULTURE, COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND 

COOPERATION 

(Department of Co-operation) 

New Delhi, the 15 th December 1906 

S.O. 3899. — In exercise of the power conferred by Section 5B of the Multi-Unit 
Cooperative Societies Act, 1942 (6 of 1942) and In supersession of the former Minis- 
try of Community Development and Cooperation (Department of Cooperation) 
notification No. 3-14/G4-CT dated the 31st May, 1965, the Central Government here- 
by directs that the following amendment shall be made in the notification of the 
Government of India In the former Ministry of Community Development and Co- 
operation (Department of Cooperation) No. S.O. 1593, dated the 28th June, 1081 
published at page 1555 of Part II, Section 3(ii) of the Gazette of India of the 8th 
July, 1001, namely:- — 

In the said notification against serial No. 15 for the entry ‘'Shri S. S. Verma” 
the entry "Shrl R. N. Sengupta’’ shall be substituted. 

[No. 7-13/06-Credit.] 
V. V. NATHEN, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT & AVIATION 
(Department of Transport and Shipping) 

(Transport Wing) 

Merchant Shipping 
New Delhi, the 12 th December 1966 

S.O. 3900. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 218 
of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 (44 of 1958), read with rules 3 and 4 of the 
National Welfare Board for Seafarers Rules, 1063, the Central Government hereby 
makes the following amendment in the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Transport and Aviation, Department of Transport Shipping and 
Tourism . (Transport Wing) No. S.O. 1883, dated the 10th June, I960, namely: — 

In the said notification, for the existing entries against serial number 40, the 
following entries shall be substituted, namely: — 

"Shri . S. K. Bose, Director, Seamen’s Representative of societies interested 

■Employment Office, Calcutta. in Welfare of semen.” 

[No. 14-MTU4)/65.] 

B. B. LAL, Under Secy. 


(Department of Aviation and Turlsm) 

New Delhi, the 15 th December I960 

S.O. 3901. — On his resignation Shri S. R, Vasavada ceased to be a Member of 
•the Boards of the Indian Airlines Corporation and Air India Corporation with 
■effect from 5th December 1966, 

[No. 3-CA(16)/06.] 
J. N. GOYAL, Jt. Secy, 


MINISTRY OFMINES AND METALS 

New Delhi, the 12 th December 1900 


S O 3902.— Whereas by the notification of the Government of India in the late 
Ministry of Steel, Mines and Heavy Engineering (Department of Mines and 
Metals) S O. No, 42 dated the 28th December, 1903, under sub-section (1) oi 


Sec. 8 (li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966/P AUSA 8 , 1888 \ 3547 


Section 4 of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1967 (20 
of 1967), the Central Government gave notice of ita intention to prospect for coal 
in 5035-00 acres (approximately) or 2039:18 hectares (approximately) of lands in 
the locality specified in the Schedule appended to that notification. 


And whereas by the notification of the Government of India in the late Minis- 
try of Steel and Mines (Department of Mines and Metals) S.O. No. 3884 dated the 
7th December, 1965 under aub-section (1) of Section 7 of the said Act, the Central 
Government gave notice specifying a further period of one year commencing from 
the 28th December, 1965, as the period within which the Central Government may 
give notice of Its intention to acquire the lands or of any rights In or over such 
lands described in that notification; 


And whereas the Central Government Is satisfied that coal is obtainable in 
whole of the said land; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of 
Section 7 of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1057, the 
Central Government hereby gives notice of its intention to acquire— 

(a) the lands measuring 773:80 acres (approximately) or 313:39 hectares 
(approximately) described in Schedule ‘A’ appended hereto; and 


(b) the rights to mine, quarry, bore, dig and search for, win, work and 
carry away minerals In the lands measuring 4261:20 acres (approxi- 
mately or 1725:77 hectares (approximately) described in the Schedule 
‘B’ appended hereto: 

Note 1. — The plans of the area covered by this notification may be inspected 
in the Office of the Deputy Commissioner, Dhanbad (Bihar), or in the Office of 
the Coal Controller, 1, Council House Street, Calcutta or In the Office of the 
National Coal Development Corporation Ltd., (Revenue Section), Darbhanga 
House, Ranchi (Bihar). 

Note 2. — Attention is hereby invited to the provision in section 8 of the Coal 
Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1967, which provides aB 
follows: 

8(1) "Any person interested in any land in respect of which a notification 
under section 7 has been issued may, within thirty days of the issue 
of the notification object to the acquisition of the whole or any part 
of the landor of any rights in or over such land. 

Explanation . — It shall not be an objection within the meaning of this Section 
for any person to say that he himself desires to undertake mining 
operations in the land for the production of coal and that such opera- 
tions should not be undertaken by the Central Government or by any 
other person. 

(2) Every objection under sub-section (1) shall be made to the competent 

authority in writing, and the competent authority shall give the 
objector an opportunity of being heard either in person or by a legal 
practitioner and shall, alter hearing all such objections and after making 
such further inquiry, if any, as he thinks necessary, submit the case 
for the decision of the Central Government together with the record 
of the proceedings held by him and a report containing hia recom- 
mendations on the objections. 

(3) For the purposes of this Section, a person shall be deemed to be in- 

terested in land who would be entitled to claim an interest in com- 
pensation if the land or any rights in or over such land were acquired 
under this Act”. 


It may he noted that the Coal Controller, 1 — Council House Street, Calcutta-1, 
has been appointed by the Central Government as the competent authority under 
the Act. 


3548 i"Hl GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 19S6/PAU8A 3 , 1888 [Part II- 

SCHBDULE ‘A’ 

4 All Rights’ PARBATPUR BLOCK Drg. No. Rcv/29/66 

SUB-BLOCK-I Dated 6-10-66 

Jharia Coalfield 

(showing lands to be 
acquired.) 

Serial Village Thana ’ Thana District Area Remarks 

number number 


1 Parbatpur . Chas 204 Dhanbad Part. 

2. Batbinor . Chas 20J Dhanbad Parr. 

Total area : 95- to acres (Approximately) 

OR 38-52 Hectares (Approximately), 


Plot numbers to be acquired in village Parbatpur : 

626 to 736, 7 37(P), 738(F) , 739 to 745, 746(P)> 747 (P), 748(P;,749(P), 75i(P), 762(P), 763 (F), 
765(P)j 766(F), 767(F), 768(P), 769 to 815, 8i6(P;, 817(F), 818 to 828 ard 2330. 

Plot numbers to be acquired in village Batbinor: 

95o(P), 95*(P)j 9S3(P). 9$6(P), 961(F), 962 and 963 (P). 

BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION OF SUB-BLOCK I. 

3— 4 Line passes through plot numbers 751, 746, 747, 749, 748, 738, 737, 762, 763, 

765, 766, 767, 768, 816 and 817 in village Parbatpur, through plot numbers 952, 950. 
9 52, 953, 961, 956 and 963 in village Batbinor and meets at point ‘4’. 

4 — 3 Line passes along the part northern boundary of Road in villages Batbinor and Par- 

batpur and meets at point ‘3’. 

3 — 2 Line passes along the part southern boundary of Railway In village Parbatpur and 

meets at starting point ‘2’. 


‘AU Right' 


SCHEDULE 

SUB-BLOCK-II 

(Showing lands to be 
acquired) 

Serial 

number 

Village 

Thana 

Thana 

number 

District 

Area 

Remarks 

r. 

Parbatpur 

Chas 

204 

Dhanbad 


Part. 

2. 

Batbinor 

Chas 

205 

Dhanbad 


Part. 



Total area : 

325-30 acres (approximately) 





OR 131 

■75 Hectares (Approximately) . 






XEC. 3(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24. 1966/PAUSA 3, 1888 ,3549 


Plot numbers to be acquired in village parbatpur : — 

810 to 1241, 1242(F), 1241 to 1249. 1250 (P), i25i(P)j 1252, 1253, 1254, 1255(F), I26 i(P), 
I 27l(P), 1273, X27 S(Fj, I276(P;, 1277(P), 1278, 1279, i28o(P;, I28 i(P), 1282 to 1287, I288(P), 
1289,1290, i29i,i292(P), I297(P), 1299CP), I300(P), i3oi(P), I3«3(P), i384fP), !3S<(jP), 1386, 
*387, 1388(F), 1389(F), 139°, i39 I > I 392, 2333,2334, 2335, 2336(F), 2501 (P), 2503(P), 2504(F), 
3505, 2506, 2507(F), 25 o8(Pj, 25io(P), 251 t(P), 2512, 2513 25i4(P), 25i5(P), 2517(F), 
25i8(P), 2519, 2520, 2521 (P), 2550 and 2551. 

Plot numbers to be acquired in village Batbinor : 

298o(P), 2982(F), 2983(F), 2984 to 3007, 3008(P), 3009, 3°io(P), 3oi3(P), 3°I4(P), 3015, 3016 
and 3017 (P). 

boundary description of SUB-BLOCK II 

5 — 40 Line passes through plot numbers 2980, 2982, 2983, and 3010 in village Batbinor and 

meets at point ‘40’. 

40 — 7 Line passes through plot numbers 3010, 3008, 3010, 3013, 3014, and 3017, In village 
Batbinor and passes along the part common boundary of villages Parbatpur and Ku- 
raya or Babugram, Parbatpur and Uparbandha and meets at point '7’. 

7 — 6 Line passes through plot numbers : 2521, 2518, 2517, 2518, 2515, 2514, 2508, 2511, 

2508, 25m, 2508, 2507, 2508, 2501, 2504, 2336, 1250, 2503, 1250, 1251, 1255, 1261, 
along tht part northern boundary of plot numbers 1261, 1249, through plot numbers 
1242,1271, 1275, 1276, 1277,1280,1281, 1301,1300, 1299, 1288, 1297,1292, 1389, 
1388 1383, 1384 and 1385 in village Parbatpur arid meets at point ‘6’. 

6 — 5 Line passes along the southern boundary of Road in villages Parbatpur, Batbinor and 

meets at starting point ‘5“. 


‘AH Rrlghts’ 


Schedule 

SUB-BLOCK 

hi 

(Showing lands to be 
acquired) 

Serial 

number 

Village 

Thana Thana 

number 

District 

Area 

Remark* 

1 , 

Parbatpur 

. Chas 

204 

Dhanbad 


Part. 

2, 

Nayaban or 
Pabratanr 

Chas 

209 

Dhanbad 


Part. 

3. 

Talgaria 

. Chas 

210 

Dhanbad 


Part 

4- 

Fatepur 

. Chas 

212 

Dhanbad 


Part. 


Total area : 3 53’4o acres (approximately) 

OR 143-13 Hectares (approximately) 


Plot numbers to be acquired in village Parbatpur : 

I400(P), 1416CP,, I434(P), I435(P), 14370 *), 1 439(F), 15051?,/, 1506CP), i 507(P), 1508, 1509(F)’ 
i5to(P), 1527(F), i53i(P), x532(P), 1 533(F), 1537(F), 1 541(F), r542(P), I543(P), I544(P)> 1545(F), 
I546CP), l56o(P), l55i(P), 1552(F), i 553(P), I557(P), 15580*), 1560(F), iS6i(P), I567(P), t568(P), 
1569(F), 1 58 4(P ), 1585(F), 1592(F), t593(P), t6o2(P), 1603(F), 11506(F), t607(P), i6ti(P), i‘6i2(P) j 
1614(F), I670(P), 1671, 1672(F), 1678(F), 16790*), t68o(P), i682(P), 1725(F), 1726(F), 

1727, 1728, 17290*), 1730(F), i73t(P), 1732(F), 1744(F), t746(P), 1746, 1747(F), I748(P), I77°(P), 
18410*), 18740*), 2017(F), 20i8(P), 2019(F), 2020(P), 2040(F), 2044(P), 2046(P), 2054(F), 2055, 
2056(F), 20570*), 2058F), 2059(P), 2061(F), 2062(F), 2063 to 2070, 207i(P), 2072(P), 2081(F), 
2203(F), 220 )(P), 2210(F), 2211 (P ) , 2212(F), 2227(P), 2233(P), 2234, 2235(P), 2236(P), 2256F), 
2257, 2258, 2259 (P), 2260(F), 22St(P), 2263F), 2264(P), 2265CP), 2266(F), 22670*), 2268, 2269(F), 
2270(F), 230t(P), 2302(P), 2315(F), 2316 to 2321, 2323, 23Z4(P), 2327, 2328(P), 2337, 23380*), 
2339(F), 2340CP), 2341, 2342, 2343, 2344(F), 2 363(P), 2364, 2365, 2366(P), 2367, 2368, 2369, 
2370, 237i(P), 2372, 2373 (P), 2374, 2375CP), 2376, 2377(F), 23S9(P), 2390, 239i(P), 2392, 
2393 (P), & 2394 to 2404. 




3550 


IMS GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24, 1966/FAUSA S, 188? 


[Part II— 


Plot numbers to he acquired in village Nayaban or Pahratanr : 


1375©, 1376, 1377(1*)) 1378(F), 1449(D) 145°(P\ T 454(F)) 1455(F), 1456 to 1459, 146°©, 
14620?), 1463 to 147a, i473(P), 1474(F), I 5 T 5(P)) i5i6(P), i5i9(P), *590©, 2591, 2592,2593© 
a6o6(P), and 2607©. 


Plot number -. to be acquire 7 in villag ' T a! gat i r : 

24Q(P), It o(P), 25 t(P), 252(F), 253(P\255(P'), 256(F), 257 (P'I, 258, 219(D) 2fi0, 26 l(P),262P) 7 

207 (P), 208(F), 306©, 30710 311 ) 3 I2(P), 313 to 343 ' 344 (P), 345 to 405, 4 ° 6 ©, 407 (F), 409 ©, 
418F) 410(F) 420, a2t(D. 422 (P), 423 to 456, 457 (F), 458 ©, 460(F), 461 to 465, 466(F), 467©, 
487©’ 48’8(P\ 480(F), 4Qi(P), 504(F), 505 to 555, 556©. 557(F). 558, 550(P), 563(F)- 564(F), 
565(P)' 566©, 567©, 1681"?), 626(P), 629©, 65KP), 614(F), 655(F), 656(^3, 6 57 to 66o, 66i(P), 
662 to 667, 668(F), 669, 6701 P)) 67 i(P)- 673 10717. 7 i 8 fP), 719 (F), 720(F), 721(F), 72?©, "34©, 
736(P) 753(P), 807(F), 809©, 810(F), 8ir(P), 8i2(Pt- 813(F). 814, 8l«©. SlO(F), 817(F), 852(F). 
8536P)’, 851, 855, 856(F),’ 857- 8;8(P), 867(F), 930(F)- 93KP), 1012(F), 1013, 1014(F), 1015 (D) 
1023(F) 102.1.’ t025©- T026(P). TTo8(D- III 3 , 1114(F), IIl6, 1 1 17, IU8, III0.TI2O, 1121(F), 
1 126 (P)t 243(F), 124KP1, t 280 (P), t?qo6P), 1201, 1292(F), 129?©, i294(F\t205(P),t?o6 to 13015, 
1306(F) 5 1307, I308(P), 1300, T3T0(P), 1312©. 1313, 1314, I31 C (F), 1310(F), 1510(F), 1556©, 
1557(F) I559(P), 15606P), 161KP), 1643(F), 164.’©, 1641©, 7646 to 1658, 1650(F) 1660(F), 
t66i(P) 1662, 166VP). ,664©, 1660©. 1670© t6 7 c© ifto to 1707 - 1708©- I'CJ©, 
1710, I7TI, 1712(F), "1713(F), 171.I. 1715 (F)- 17166P). T^i 7 to 1771, J772(P). 1773, 1783(F)- 1784©, 
1787(F) I788(P), l7So(P), J70i(P). 1701(F), 1796(F), 1802(F). tR2I, 1R22, 1823(F), t827(P). 
1829©’ 1830, 1831, 1832, 1833, 1836, ’1K37,' 1838, 1839, 1840(F), 1841©. 1842©, 184?(P) and 

X844©' 


Plot numbers to be acquired in village Fatrpur: 

1446P), 145(F). 148(F), T49(P), I53(P), i<4©, 155(F), I56(P), 157 . 158) t 59, 1 0, i6i(P), 
162(F), 164©, 165©, 166, T67. 168, 160, i 7 o(P). 171 to 175, 176(F). 177©, 239©, 24i(P), 242©, 
243©, 244 to 250, 251(F), 252(F), 253(F), 255<P), 277(F), 278, 27 9 (P), 2R0, 281©, 282(P), 284(F). 
285(P), 286, 287, 288©, 2Ro(P), 290(F), 9I5(P), 95^©, 959©, 967(P), 963(F), 964©, 965©., 
9 66(P), 967(F), 968(F), 960(F), 070, 071, 078(F), 08' (F). 985(P)- oR6(P), 987, 088, 980©. 9S0(P), 
993(P), 994(D) 99 8(P), 099©, 1000(P), 1002(F). J01 9 (P), 1027(P), 1028, T02 9 (P), 1030(F), 1031, 
T032(P), 1033©, 1034(F), 1035(F). 1036, 103"(P). 1038. 103 9 (P). T040(P), io65(P). 10C6, 1067(F), 
xo68 to 1074, to75(D> 1094©, 1095(F), 1 096©, 1097(F), ioo8(P), 1099, 1100©, 
iioi(P)j 1119©, 1120©, 1 t2i (P), 1122(F), n23(P), 1126(F), 1134©, H3 6 ©, 
1137©, 1138(F), ii39(P). 1146(F). 1205©, 1254(F)- 1255(F)- 1256©. 1257(F), 1258(F)- 1719, 
1260©, 1262©, 1263©, 1264©, I266(P), 1267© 1283©. 1301©- 1302(F)- 1303(F)- 

1304(F) 1305©, 1308(P), I3o 9 (P), 1312, 1313- 1314©, 1315 K> 1326, i327(P), 1328©, 

1329©, 1330©. 1331 to 1362,1363©, 1383(F), 1384©, 1385©, 1386 to 1416, 1417©, 
1424(F), 1425©, 1426©, 1427(F), 1428(F), 1429(F), 1430©, 1431©, 1432(F), 1433(F), 

1439©, I455(P), 14566P), 1457(F), 1458©, 1459(F)- 1460©, 1461(F). 1462(F). 1463©, 

1464©, 1496©, 1506(F). i7i8(P). 1719, i~20, 1721(F), J7226P), i 7 36(P), 1737(F), 1738, 

1739©, 1740, 1741, T742©, 1743©. 1744©. 1747©, 1748 to 1709, 1800(F), 1805©, 1806©, 
1807©, 1808, i8oq, i8io(P), 1811(F), 1S12, 1813, 1814©, 1815©, i8i6(P),& 1821. 


Boundary Description 0/ Sub-Block III 

31 — 30 Line passes through plot numbers 239, 242, 241, 177, 176, 170, 154, 155, 149, 156, 
148, 145 and 144 in village Fatepur through plot numbers 1108, 1114) 1026, 1025, 1023, 1015, 1014, 
1012, 1306, 1012, 1308, 1310, along tbe part Eastern, Southern and part Western boundary of plot 
number 1311, through plot numbers 1310, 1716, 858, 867, 856, 930, 931, 853, 422, 421, 419, 418, 
409, 406, 407, 344, 249, 250, 251, 252, 253, 255, 256, 257, 259, 262, 261, 297, 298, 306 and 312 in 
village Talgaria, through plot numbers 1375, 1377, T375, 1378, 1455,1454- 1460. 1462. 1450. 1449, 
1473, 1474, 2607, 1515, 1516, along part western boundary of plot number 2607. tHergh plot 
number 1519, along western and part Southern boundary of plot number 1518. tbjovgh plot number 
1519 along Eastern boundary of plot number 2588 in village Nayatan or Fabratenr and meets at 
point '30’. 

30 — 29 — 28, Lines pass through plot numbers 2606, 2590 ard 2593. in vjJIrgc NTrit 1 an trd 
Pabratanr, through plot number 2018 in village Paibatpur, then passet elf rg tbr pn t tain , r 1 c t r~ 
dary of Road (plot No. 2018 and 1400) In villag Patbatpur, tbtougb plot ri rr bets 1614. 16 J2 16 jj, 
1607, 1606, 1603, 1602, 1593, 1592, 1585, 1584, 1569, 1568, 1567, jy6r Wr 1**8. jt<-. 

1552, 1551, 2328, 1505, along eastern boundary of plot number ’1504, tbrcugb plot" ru n 1 1 i t ]"■>' 
1510, 1434, 143J, I437j 1439, 1416 and 1400 in village Paibatpur ard meet at point ‘28’. 



s so. 8 (il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, L&ff/TAUSA S, 1888 j 3551 


23 — 27 Line passes along the part northern boundary of Railway in village Parbatpur and 
meets at point ‘27’- 

27-26-25-24 Lines pass through plot numbers 1416, 1737, 1435, 1434, 15 jo. 1507, 1506, 
2328, 1531, 1532, 1533, 1527, 2270, 22.69, 22^3, 22f t. 22 C o. 2255;, 2335, ; 3*- - & S 301 in vdltfe 
Parbatpur and meet at point ‘24’. 

24-23 Line passes along rhe pan northern boundary of Railway in village Parbatpur ard 
meets at point ‘23’. 

23-22-21-20-19-38 Lines pass through plot m rrb ers 2353 2391 2389 2375 2 3' 7- 2375, 
2371; 2363, 2371, 2366, 2371, 2373, 2344, 2339; 2338. 2340. 2338, 22C9, 2210, jjii. 2203, alorg 
part southern boundary of plot nun ter 2201, through plot rentiers 2203. 2212.. 21JI, 2227.. 2211, 
2324, 2235, 2233, 2235, 2236, 2256 2259, 22fO, lit I. 22 6f_. 22 C A: 72(0, ZZ(( ■ 22 ( 7. If; 3- If 37; 
1545; I54 1 ; 1545; t54 2 ; 1543, 1544; 154 6 , 1551, 1550, 1551, 1874, 1841, 1682, 1611, 1612, 1614, 
1680 1679, 1678, 1672, 1726, 1725, 1726, 1732, 1731, 1730, 1729; 1744, I 74J; 1744 and 1747 in 
village Parbatpur and meet at point ‘18’, 


18-17-16-15-14-13-12, Lines pass through pkl rr nTtn 1747, 1748.- 1770. 1017. 2019. zee o, 
2040 , 2057, 2044, 2046, 2054, 2056, 2058. 2059, 20f 2. ref i- ic8t. 2072. 2071, in village Parbatpur 
along the part common boundary of villages Parbatpur end Talgarin erd through plot numbers 753, 
723, 718, 719, 720, 721, 734, 736, 654, 655, 656. 6 61, ( f I. 6(8, 670, 671, 626, 6:9, 62 6. 556, 18:9, 
557; 568, 567, 566, 8ro, 809, 807. 81 1. 815. J823. R17, 816. it£8. 487, 852, 853, 1796, 1559; 1802, 1856, 
in village Talgaria, ibiough plotrr mbris jf06, 1456. 1455. 14ft . 1,457, 1459- 1460. 146 1. 149 6, 146 3, 
1464, 1429, 1464, 1428, 1427. 142(1, 1425, 1424. 1233. ’5V2. cf 3. c?f". c(V. r < rf {• ifo.ife.cff, 
986, 978, 994, 993, 998, 1029, 1030, 1039, JO40, 1037, 1 ico. K94. icg 5. ard 1098 ir villlr g c T - 1 1 ■ h - 
pur and meet at point ‘12’, 

12-11-10 Lines pass through plot numbers 1C98, Tcc.7, 1096- 1305,1304, 15C8, 13091308,1327, 
1328, 1329, 1330, 1075, 1067. 1065, 1417, 1747, 1744, 1743 1 1722. 1739; 1718, 1722. 1721, 1736; 
1737,1800,1805,1806,1807, 1810,1811,1815,1814 1816, and 1283, in village Fatepur ard 
meet at point '10'’ 

10-43 Line pa.-^es along the part common boundry of villages Fan pur Erd /mlabad ard 
meets at point ‘43’.; 


43- 42-41-44 Lines passthrough plol numbers 1283, 1383, 1384. 1385, 136 3. 1301. 1134. 1362 
1303, 1314, 1308, 1309, 1304.1305, 1122, 1121. 1122. 1123, 1122,1126, 1134, 1138, 1137, 1136, 1255, 
1307, 1258, 1260, 7262, 7263, 7264, 12 66, 1267. ard 1205 in villtge Fatepur and meet ai point ‘44’- 

44- 37 Line passes along the part light barh 01 River Dtrrodar in village Fatepur and meets 

at point ‘37’- 

37-36-35-34 Lines pass through plot numbers 1205, 1267. J2f 6. 1257. 7256. 1254. 1138. u39, 
1134, 1146, 1122, 1121, 1120, rrr9, lico, 1101, 1035, 1034, 1033, 1032, 1027, lc 02, icco, 593, 

989, 990, 969, 965, 9C4. 963- 962, 959. 958, 915, IJ33, 7427. 7428, Tr)32. 1420. 7,-30. Trsr. J/jc , 

1463, 7463, 1458, 1455., in village Fatepur, through plot rirrbrrf Jfff, 1557. iffn, ifCj. 8 f 3. ffg, 
487, 489, 813, 4911 R I3; 812, 563, 564, 563- 565, 56 8, 557. 559. 504', 457, 458, 460, 467, 466- 85?; 
it nd 1772, in village Talgaria and meet at point ‘34’. 

34-33-32-37 LineB pass through plot nvrrbtrr 1772, 1783, 1784, 1787, 7788, 1789, 1791, i6Tr, 
1645, 1644, 1643, 1659- 1660, 1661, 1663, 1664, 1369, 1370, 1679, 1708, 1709. 1510, 1319, 1777, 

1713, 1716, 1715, 1716, 1312, 7375, 124a, 1244, 1827, 1295, 1294. I29 q - 7292, 1290. J804, 18/?., 

1842, 1847, 7840, 7290, 1289, 7126 and 1121, in village Taigarjp through plot lumbers 16 j. jf 7, 
1 64, 165,253, 255,252,251,277 along the common boundaiy of plol numbers 276 and 278,' through 
plot numbers 282, 288, 289, 290, 285, 284, 282, 281, 279, 243, and 239, in village Faupur ard meet 
starting point '31’. 

Schedule — B 


PARBATPUR BLOCK ( Talgaria ) 
SUB-BLOCK— jV 


Mining rights 3 

(showing lard where rights to mine, quarry, bore, dig ard search for win, work and carry away 
minerals are to be acquired.) 


Jharia Coalfield 


Serial 


Village 

Thana 

Thana 

District 

Area Remarks 

No, 



number 



1 

2 

Tetengabad 
Maihiladi or 

Jogidi 

Jharia 
. Jharia 

90 

91 

Dhanbad 

Part. 

Part. 

3 

Bardubhi 

Jharia 

92 

)) 

Part. 




3552 lH K GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1965/PAU8A 8 , 1888 


[Pact II- 


si. 

No. 

Village 

Thana 

Thana 

Number 

District 

Area 

Remark 

4 

Jatudih 

. Jharia 


104 

' Dhanbad 

Part 

5 

Gausadih 

. Jharia 


105 

JJ 

Part 

6 

Jarma . 

. , Jharia 


106 

1) 

Part 

7 

Parbatpur 

. . ChaS 


204 


Part 

8 

Batbinor 

. . Chas 


205 


Part 

9 

Diborda 

. . Chas 


208 


Part 

10 

N ivaban or Pabratanr 

. Chas 


209 


Part 

II 

Tdlgaria 

, Chas 


210 


Part 

12 

Silphor , 

. . Chas 


21 1 


Full 

13 

Fatepur 

. Chas 


212 


Part 

14 

Kendulia 

. Chas 


215 

JJ 

Part 

15 

Tilatanr . 

. . Chas 


216 


Part 

16 

Birajdi 

. . Chas 


217 


Full 

17 

Nawadi 

. . Chas 


218 


Full 

18 

Karmatanr 

. Chas 


219 

D 

Full 

19 

D :bagrarn 

. Chas 


220 

3 i 

FulL 

20 

Uparbandha 

Chas 


221 


Part 

21 

Jugidi 

Chas 


222 

iJ 

Part 

22 

Mahal 

. Chas 


225 

yy 

Part 


Total 

. area : 

4217-50 

acres 

(Approximately) 




OR : 

1 708 ■ 09 Hectares (Approxlm atcly). 


Plot number to be acquired in village Tetengabad : 

253 (P). 

Plot number to be acquired in village Majhiladi orjogidi : 
< 5 o 8 . 

Plot number to be acquired in village Bardubhi : 

969. 

Plot number to be acquired in village gatudih : 

652. 

Plot number to be acquired in village Qansadih : 

167. 

Plot 't imber to be acquired in village Jarma : 

568 .] 

Plot ni nhers to be acquired in village Parbatpur : 


1 to r>5. ;)>(P),522(P), 623, 51 615, 3 19, 1242(F), i25o(P),i25i(P),t255(P),i2j6 to 1260,1261 
(P), 1262 to 1270, I27I("P), 1272, 1271, I275(P), I275(P), I277(P), 1280(F), i28i(P),t 288(P'), 1292 
(P),i293 to 1296, 1297(P), 1298, 1299(F), 1300(F), 1301(F), 1302 to 1382, 1383(F), 1384(F), I385(P), 
1388(F), 1389(F), 1393 to 1399, I400(P), 1401 to 1415, i4i6(P), 1417 to 1433, t434(P), H35 (”)> 
1435, 1 437(P>, x 438, t439(P), 1440 to 1504, t 5°5(P)> i5o4(P), 1507(F), 1509(F), t5tp(P), I5 11 t0 
1526, 1 5 17^), 1528, 1529, 1530, t53 I (P'> 1532(F), t533(P), 1534, 1535, 1536, i537(P), 1538, i539’ 
1540, 1 5 'Fj, 1 5 )2(P), 1543(F), i5u r P)> t545 (P), t5 46(P), 1547, 1548, r549> I55°(P), tSStCP) > 
I552(P), I553(P), 1554, t555> 1556, i557(P), i558(P), X559 t56o(P), 1561 (P), 1562 to 1566, 1567, 
(P) I558 (P), i 569(P), 1570 to 1583, 1584(F), 1585(F), 1586 to 1591, i592(P), X 393(P), 1594 to 1601, 
r602(P), 1 5 o 3(P), 1604, 1605, t6o5(P), 1607(F), 160S, 1609, i6ro, l6n(P), i6i2(P), 1613, i6i 4(P ) 
t6t5 toi ) 59 ,t 572(P), 1673 tot 577, 1 r73(P ), 1 679F), i 68 o(P), 168 i,iS 82(P), 1683 to 1724, 1725 
t726(P), t729(P), t73?(P), t73t(P), t732(P), 1733 to 1743, I744(P), T 745(P), 1747 (P), r 748(P)> 
1749 to 1769, t770(P),i77i to 1840, l84t(P), 1842 to 1873, i874(P'), 1875 to 2016, 2017(P), 2018 (P), 
20E9 (P), 202o(P), 202 [ to 2039, 20J0 (P), 2041, 2042, 2043, 2044(P), 20 45, 2046(P), 
2047to2053,2054(P), 2055(33), 2057(P), 2o58(P),zo59(P'- 2060, 2 o5i(P), 2oS2(P), 207t(P), 

2072(P), 2073 to 20 io, 208i(P), 2032 to 2201, 2202, 2203(P), 2204 to 2208, 220p(P), 2210 (P)j 
22It(P), 2212(33), 22X3 to 2226, 2227(P), 2228 to 2232, 2233(P), 2235(P), 2236(P), 2237 tO 2255> 
2255(P), 2259(P), 225 o'P), 226 i(P), 2262, 2263(P), 2264(P), 2265(F), 2266(p), 2267(F), 2269 (P), 
2270(P„ 2271 to 2300, 230I(P), 2302(F), 2 3°3 to 2314, 231 5(P), 2322, 2324(P), 2325, 2326, 2 32 



8m. 9(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 84 , lWfl/fAUSA. .8, 1889 3553 


23 29, 2331, 2332, 23361 p y , 2338(F), 2339(P), 2340F;, 2344(P), 2345 to 2362. 2363FJ, 2366(F), 
2371(F), 2373(P), 2375(P), 2377(F), 2378 to 2388, 2389(F), 2391(F), 2393(F), 2403 to 2500 
2501F), 2502, 25O0F), 2504(P), 2507(P), 2508F), 2309, 25to(P), 2511(F), 25i4(P),25i5(P)> 2516, 
2517(F), 2518(F), 252I(P) & 2322 to 2249. 

Plot number to be acquired in village B a thin or : 

2237(F). 

Plot numbers to be acquired in village Diborda : 

lll(P), ii2(P), 113, H4(P), 119(F), I20',P;, 121(F), I22(‘P , 124(F), I2;i.P) 1 2 6 10158, 133(F), 
I4 I (P), I54(P), 626, P), 627F), 630, P), 631 tP), 6381P), 639(F), 640(F)- 641F). 643(F)- 6t- P), 
666(F), 667(P), 668(P), 669, 670(F), 671(F), 6721P), 673 to 781, 782 (P), 783(F)- 7=4(P), 7831P), 
798(P), 799(P), 8oo(.P), 801 to 804, 805JP), 8n,P), 812, 813, 814, 813.P), 816 to 826, 827(F), 
832(P), 836F), 837(P), 838(P), I242(P), 1248(F), 1249(F), I250(P), I253(P), 1254(F), 1255 to 
1264, 1269, i27o(P) & 1272. 

Plot numbers to be acquired in village Mayaban or Pabratanr : 

2(P), 3 to 622, 623 (P), 624 to 627, 628(P), 629 (P), 630(F), 645<P).. fz<P), f 47 648,649, 

6JO^P), 651 652(P), 655tP), 656 to 665. 666 P - 6c, ,P). < K(P; ( l ) D ' ' 1 < i < r', I375(P), 

I377 (P), i? 78(P), J379 to 1448, 1449(F), I450(P)- I45C 1452, 1453, J454(P). I455(P), l4to(P) 
1461, 14621 P;, I473(,P), I474(P;, 1475 to 1514, 1515. P), I5l6ip), 1517. 1518. 1519(F); 15:0101850, 
iS5t(P), 1852, i853(P), 18541P), i 855 (P)- 1856(F), 1857(F), i 859(P), i86o(P), l86i(P). 1862 to 
2589, 259o(P), 2593(P), 2594 to 2605, 26061P) and 2607(P). 

Plot numbers to be acquired in village Talgaria : 

I to 248, 249CP), 25°(P), 25I(P), 2521.P), 253(Pj, 254, 255(F), 2561P). 2571 P). 259(F), 26KP)* 
262(P), 263 to 296, 297(F), 298* P), 29910 305, 306(F), 3 12( Pi, 344(F) 406'P' 4071P' 408, 409(F), 
410 to 417, 418(F), 419F), 421 (P). 42: (P), 45/t.P), 4581 P), 459. 46c ip', 46 ( p 467(F) 46811486., 
487(F), 488(F), 489(F), 490, 49KP), 492 to 503, 504tP), 556 (P)- 557'P) S^iP 5(0 5(1. 562 3 
563(P), 564(F), 565(P), 566, P), 567(F), 568(F), 569 to 625, 626(P,, 627, 628, 629(F), 630 to 650, 65KP) 
652, 653, 654F), 655(P), 6561.P), 66t(P), 668(P), 67o(P), 671(F), 672, 718(F), 7I9(P), 720(P), 
721(F), 722. 723(P). 724 to 733, 7341P), 735 7361P' 1 737 t<‘ 7 52, 755 (P) 75* d Hi U ' P' Sc 8, 
809(F), 8101P), 8ii(P), 8t2 P), 8i3(P), 815 P), 8j6 P). 8i7(P), 818 to f 51 Bj2(P' R53 (P) 8s6(P), 
858(P), 859to866,867iP),8C8to929,93G^P),93Jip).932toioii,ioi:(p) tonP 1C151P) 1016 
to 1022, i023tP), 10251 P), 1026 1 P"i. 1027 tono7, notiP), iiocj to m: 11141P) m; nmP', 
1122, 1123, 1124, 1125, 11261P), 1127 to 1242, 1243 (P\ 12441PV 1245 to 1288’. I2F5(P), 
1290(F), 1292(F), 1293(F), 1294(F), 1295(F), 13061P), 130HP), I3IC(P), 1311, I3I2(PV 1315(F), 
1316, 1317, 1318, 1319(F), 1320 to 1509, t5ic(P), 15H to 1555, 15561P), i55"(P), 1558, 
I559(P), 1560(F), 1561 to 1610, i6lI(P), 1612 to 1642, 16431P), I644(P), 164* P). 1655(F), 
r66o(P), l66l(P), 1663 P), i 66"4 iP 1 1665 1166,1660 166 8.166 5(1 ',' i6h(P' 1671'P U 1678, 
i679(P), 1708(F), 17091P;, I7I2(P), I 713(P), I7I5'P), 17I6‘P), 1772(F)- 1774 to 1782.1783(F), 
I784 (Pj, 1785, 1786, 1787(F), I7R8(P), 1789(F), I7S0. t79 I (P;, 1792, 1793, 1794- T V95(P), 
I796(P), 1797 to 1801, i 802(P), 1R03 to 1820, 1823' P), 1824, 1825, 1826, 18271P), 1828, 
i829(Pj, 1834, 1835, 1840(F), 184HP), i842(P;, i84£'.P). jM 4(P), 1845 ard 1846, 

Plot numbers to be acquired in village Silphor : 

2 to 267, 270 to 2721, 2723 to 3215, 3217 to 4264, 4266 to 4451, 4453 to 4467. 

Plot numbers to be acquired in village Fatepur: 

1 to 143, 144(F), 145(F), U6, 147, 148(P), 149(F), 150, 151, 152, 153(F), 154(F), 155(F), 156 
(P), t6i(P), i 62(P), 163, 164F), I65(P), I7°(P), 176(F), 177(F), 178 to 238, 239(F), 240, 241(F), 242 
(P), 243(F), 251(F), 252(F), 253(P), 254, 255(P), 256 to 276, 277(F), 279(P), 28KT) '282(P), 283, 
284(F), 285(P), 288(F), 289(F), 290(F), 291 to 914, 915(F), 916 to 957, 958(F), 959(F), 960, 961, 

962(F), 963(P), 964(F), 9 6 5(F), 966(F), 967(P), 968(F), 969(F), 972 to 977, 978(F), 979 to 982, 
983(F), 984, 985(F), 986(F), 989(F), 99°(P), 991, 99 2 , 993(P),994(P), 995, 996, 997, 998(F), 999(P), 
IOOO(P), 1001, I002(P), 1003 to 1018, 1019(F), 1020 to 1026, I027(P), 1029(F), I030(P), I032(P), 
I033(P), 1034(F), 1035(F), 1037(F), I039(P), 1040(P), 1041 to 1064, I065(P), 1067(P), 1075(F), 
1076 to 1093, 1094(F), I095(P), I096(P), 1097(F), 1098(F), iioo(P), iioi(P), 1102 to 1118, 1119(F), 

1 1 20(P), II2I(P), II22(P), 1134(F), 1138(F), 1139(F), 1140 to 1145, I146(P), 1x47 to 1204, 
I205(p), 1206 to 1253, I254(P), 1256F), 1257F), IZ66F), 1267(P), 1283(F), 1304(F), 13O5F), 
1306, 1307, 1308F), 1309(F), 1327(F), 1328(F), 1329(F), 1330F), 1417F), 1418 to 1423, 1424F), 
1425F), 1426F), 1427(F), 1428CP), 1429(F), 1430(F), 1431(F), 1432(F), I433F), 1434 to 1438, 
I439(P), 1440 to 1454, 1455F), H56F), 1457(F), 1458(F), i459(P), 1460(F), 1461F), 1462(F), 
1463CP), 1464F), 1465 to 1495, 1496F), 1497 to 1505, 1506F), 1507 to 1717, 1718F), 1721(F), 
1722(F), 1723 to 1735, I736F), 1737(F), 1739(P), I742F), I743F), 1744(F), 1745, 1746, I 747 ( p ), 
1800F), 1801, 1802, 1803, 1804, 1805F), 1806(F), 1807(F), i 8 xo(P), iSii(F), 1814(F), 1815F), 
i8i6(P), 1817 to 1820, 1822 and 1823. 



3554 iHE GAZETTE Ot INDIA i DECEMBER 24, 1966/PAUSA 3, 1688 


[Part II— 


Plot numbers to be acquired in village Kendutia: 

i CP). 2(P)> 3(P). 4 to 8, 9 CP), io, ii, i2(P), 13, 14, I5(P), 22(P), 23, 24(P), 25(P), 27(P), 45(P), 
46 , 47(P). 43, 49(P), 5->(P), 64(F), 67(F), 63(P), 69(P), 70(F), I02(P) and 207(P). 

Plot nutubers to be acquired in village Tilatanr : 

1 to 5J3, 554(P)> 555 to 552, 5S4 to 589, 59*7), 591 to 627, ^628(P), 629(P), 63c(P), 6 ji(P) 
and 634 to 639, 

Plot numbers to be acquired in village Birajdi: 

1 to 65. 


Plot numbers to be acquired in village Nawadi \ 

1 to 310. 

Plot numbers to be acquired in village Karmatanr : 

1 to 556. 

Plot numbers to be acquired in village Debagram : 

1 to 2918. 

Plot numbers to be acquired in village Uparbandha : 

498, 499(P)> 5 i 6 (P)j 668(F), 6 ig, 670, 67t, 672(P))and j573(P). 

Plot numbers to be acquired in village Jugidi : 

1, 2(P), 3(P), 4(P), 3*(P), 35 W l), p'F), 4t(P), 42'?), 524(F), 5t5(P), 5F5(P), 540(F),'' 541 
54 2(P), 5«(P), 5 >7(P), 553(P), 5 5>(P), 5?*P), 581, 5I1&), 5 83(P), 584(F) and 6o2(P). 

Plot numbers to be acquired in village Mahal: 

1361CP), I360(P), 1363, i364(P), 1365 to 1370, i37i(P), I374(P), 1375 to 1378, 1379(F) 
I393CP), 1 397(F), 1398, 1399, 1400, 1401(F), 1402 to 1408, I409(P), 141°, I4 h(P), 1412 to 1438, 
1439(F), 1 44°0P), 1441, I44 2 (P), I443(P), 1484(F), 1486(F), 1487 to 1525, I526(P), 1527, 1528(F), 
1529(F), 1532CP), i626(P), 1627, 1628, 1629, i 630(P), t632(P), 1633 to 1638, 1639OP), 1640 to 
1644, 1 645(F), 1646CP), 1647, 1648(F), i660(P), i66l(P), i663(P), 1664(F), 1665(F), 1666, 

1667, 1668(F), 1669, 1670, 1671, i 6 7 2(P), 1941(F), 1942(F), 1948 to 1951, I952(P), 1953(F), 1954, 
1956, 1957(F), r 958 to 1984, 1985(F), 1986 to 1989, 1990(F), 1992(F), 1993 (f), 1994(F), 2177CP), 
2178, 2179, 6872(F), 689o(P), 689i(P), 6892, 6893, 6894, 6895, 6896(F), 6905(F), 6906(F), 
6907, 6908, 6909(F), 6910, 6 9 n(P), 6912, 6913, 6914, 6915(F), 6916(F), 7005,7006,7007,7024, 
7050(P), 7051, 7052 & 7076. 

BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION : 

1 — 2. Line pisses through plot number 253 (Damodar River) in village Tetengabad, through 
plot numbers 2, 623, 629, 628, 630, 645, 646, 650, 652, 655, 656, 681, 667, 681, 680, 1857, 1856, 
2855, 1854, 1853, 1851, 1859, i860, 1861 in village Ntyaban or Pabratanr, through plot numbers 
Til, 112, 114, 120, 119, 121, 122, 123, 125, t54, I4L 139, I4 1 , 672, 671, 670, 668, 667, 666, 665 , 
■643, 641, 640, 639, 638, 631, 630, 627, 62 6, 838, 837, 836, 832, 827, 815, 811, 805, 799, 800, 798, 
T270, 784, 783, 785, 782, 1248, 1249, 1250, 1253, 1254, 1242, in village Dtborda, through plot 
numbers 596 and 522 in village Parbatpur and meets at point ‘2’, 

2 — 3. Line passes along the part southern boundary of Railway in villageJParbatpur and meet* 
at point ‘3’. 

3 — 4. Line passes along the part n arthern boundary of Road in village Parbatpur and Batblnor 
and meets at point ‘4’. 

4 — 5. Line passes through plot number 2237 in village Batbinor and meets at point ‘5’. 

5— 6. Line pisses along the part southern boundary of Road in village Batbinor and along 
the southern boundary of Road in village Parbatpur and meets at point ‘6’. 

6— 7. Line passes through plot numbers 1385, 1384, 1383, 1388, 1389, 1292, 1297; 1288, 
1299,1300,1301,1281,1280,1277,1276,1275, 1271, 1242, and passes along the part northern 
boundary of plot number 1249 and 1261, through plot numbers 1261, 1255, 1251, 1250, 2503, 
1250, 2336,2504, 2501, 2508, 2507, 2508, 2510, 2508, 2511, 2508, 2514, 2515, 2318, 2517, 2518, 
and 2521, in village Parbatpur and meets at point ‘7*. 




Sic. 8 (H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24, 19$/P,AU£A , ' 3555 


7- 8. Line passes along the part common boundary of villages Parbatpur and Uparbandha, 

part common boundary of villages Upitbandha and De bagram and through plot numbers 499, 
516,499,658, 673, 672, invillage Uparbandha and through plot numbers 2, 4, 3, along the southern 
boundary of plot number 35 and through plot numbers 32, 42, 40, 41, 524, 525, 526, 525, 540, 

542, 566*1 567, 568, 569, 580, 582, 583, 582, 534, 602, in village Jugidi, through plot numbers 6872, 
6891, 6890, 6896, 69 3 9, 6911. 6909, 6935, 6936, and 6916 in village Mahal and meets at point '8’. 

8- 9-10. — Lines pass through plot numbers 6916, 69x5, 2177, 1990, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1985, 
*952, 1953, 1957, X9U, 1941, 1 372, 1653, 16S4 1663, i65i, 1660, 1668, 1645, 1646, i6u8, 1639, 
1632 1630, x 326, 1526, 1532, 1529, 1528, 152M .i486, 1484, 1442, 1443, 1440, 1439, 1397, 1393, 
1401, 1393, 1409, 1411, 1409, 1379, 1374, 1371, 1362, 1361, 1364, 7050, in village Mahal through 
plot nuaiaars 554, 590, 631, 630, 629, 62S, in village Tilatanr, through plot number 207, m 
village Kmdulia and pisses along the part common boundary of villages Tilatanr and Kendulia 
nd through plot numbers 102, 70, 69, 68, 67, 64, 50, 49, 47, 25, 27, 45, 24, 22, 15, 12, 3, 9a 3, 2, 
and 1 in village K endulia passes along the common boundary of villages Tilatanr and Amla- 
baL pirt cam "pan bouaiary of villages Amlabad and Fatepur and meet at point ‘io’. 

10-11-12-13-14-15. Lines p 18s through plot numbers 1283, 1816, 1814, 1815, 1811, 1810, 
1S07, 180S, 1805, 1800, 1737, 1736, 1721, 1722, 1718, 1739, 1742, 1743, 1744, 1747, I4 1 ?, Io6 3, 
1057, 1075, 1330, 1329, 1328, 1327, 1308, 1309, 1304, 1305, 1096, 1097, 1098, 1095, 1094, 1 too, 
1037, 1040, 1039, 1030, 1029, 998, 993, 994, 978, 986, 985, 983, 969, 968, 967, 966, 965, 963, 962, 
1433, 1424, 1425, 1426, 1427, 1428, T464, 1429, 1464, 1463, 1496, 1461, 1460, 1459, 1457, 1456, 
1455, 1456, 1506, in village Fatepur and through plot numbers 1556, X802, 1559, 1796, 853, 852, 
487, 488, 816, 817, 1823, 815, 811, 807, 809, 810, 566, 567, 568, 557, 1829, 556, 626, 629, 626, 
671, 670, 668, 651, 661, 656, 655, 654, 736, 734, 721, 720, 719, 718, 723, and 753 in village Tal- 
garia and meet at point ‘15’. 

15- 16. Line passes along the part canypon boundary of villages Talgsrla and Parbatpur 
and meets at point ‘16’. 

16- X7-i8-I9“20. Line pass through plot numbers 2071, 2072, 2081, 2061, 2062, 2059, 

2058, 2056, 2054 2045, 2044, 20J7, 2040, 2020, 2019, 2017, 1770, 1748, 1747, 1744, 1745, 1744 

1729, 1730, 1731, *732, 172b, 1725, 1726, 1672, 1678, 1679, 1680, 1614, 1612, 1611, 1682, 1841 
1874, i55i, 1550, 1551, I54b, 1514, 1543, 1541, 1545, 1541, 1545, 1537, 1533, 2267, 2266, 2269 
2254, 2265, 2261, 225o, 2259, and 2256 in village Parbatpur and meet at point ‘20’. 

20-21-22-23. Lines pm through plot Nos. 2256, 2236, 2235, 2233, 2235, 2324, 22IX, 222 L, 
2211, 2212, 2203, along part southern boundary of plot number 2201, through plot number 
2203, 2211, 2210, 2209, 2338, 1340, 2338, 2339, 2344, 2373, 2371, 2366, 2371, 2363, 2371, 2375* 
2377, 2375, 2389, 2391 and 2393 in village Parbatpur and meet at point ‘23’. 

23- 24. Lines passes along the part northern boundary of Railway in village Parbatpur and 
meets at point ‘24’. 

24- 25-26-27, Lines pass through plot numbers 2301, 2302, 2315, 2259, 2260,2261, 2263, 
2269, 2270, 1527, 1533, i53 2 > 1531, 2328, 1506, 1507, 1510, 1434, 1435, 1437 and 1416 in village 
Parbatpur and meet at point ‘27’. 

27- 28. L'oe Pissrs along the part northern boundary of Railway in village Parbatpur and 
meets at point ‘28’. 

28- 29-30. Lines pass through plot numbers 1400, 1416, 1439, 1437, 1435, 1434, 1510, 
1509, along eastern boundary of plot number 1504, through plot numbers 1505, 2328, 1551, 1552, 
1553, 1557, 1558. 1568, 1561, T567, 1568, 1569, 1584, 1585, 1592, 1593, 1602, 1603, 1606, 1607, 
i6it, 1612, 1614. and then passes along the part eastern side of plot number 2018 (Road) in vil- 
lage Parbatpur and plot number 2593 (Road) in village Nayaban or Pabratanr and through ploj 
number 2018 in village Parbatpur and plot numbers 2593, 2590 and 2606 in village Nayaban or 
Pabratanr and meet at point ‘30’. 


3 -31-32. Lines pass along the eastern boundary ol t)lot number 7 s88 , through plot number 
1519, along part southern and eastern boundary of plot number 1518, through plot number 1519, 
along part western boundary of plot number 2607, through plot numbers 1516, 1515, 2607, 1474, 
1473, 1449, 1450, 1462,1460,1454, 1455,1378, 1375, 1377, 1375, in village Nayabati or Pabratanr 
and through plot numbers 3t2, 306, 298, 297, 261, 262, 259, 257, 2 56, 255, 253, 252, 251, 250, 
249, 344, 407, 406, 409, 418, 419, *421, 422,853, 931, 930, 856, 867, 858, 1716, I3xo, passes along 
the southern and Part western and part eastern boundary of plot number 1311, and through plot 
numbers 1310, 1308, tot2, 1306, 1012, 1014, 1010, 1023, 1025, 1026, 1x14 and 1108 in village 
-palgatla, through plot numbers 144, 145, 148, 156, 149, 155, x53, 154, 170, 176, 177, 241, 242, 
239, 2 43, 279, 281, 282, 284, 285, 290, 289 and 288 in village Fatepur and mret at point ‘32’. 



3556 ttfK GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966/PAUSA 5, 188ft 


[Part II— 


32-33-34-35-36. Lines pass through plot numbers 288, 282, passes along the common 
boundary of plot number 276, and 278 through plot numbers 277, 251, 252, 255, 253, 165, 164, 
162, and 161 in village Fatcpur and through plot numbers 1121, 1x26, 1289, 1290, 1840, 1841, 
1842, 1843, 1844, 1290, 1292, 1293, 1294, 1295, 1827, 1244, 1243, ISIS, 1312, 1716, 1715, 1716, 
1713, 1712, 1319, ijio, 1709, 1708, 1679, 1670, 1669. 1664, 1663, 1661, x66o, X659, 1643, 1644,. 
1645, 1611, 1791, 1789. 1788, 1787, 1784. 1783, 1773, 853, 466, 467, 460, 458, 457, 504, 559, 557, 
568, 565, 563, 564, 563, and 812, in village Talgaria and meet at point ‘36’. 

36- 37. Line passes through plot numbers 812, 813,491, 813,489,487, 852, 853, 1795, 1560 
1557, and 1556 in village Talgaria, through plot numbers 1455, 1458, 1462, 1463, 1439, 1431, 
1430, 1429, 1432, 1428, 1427, 1433, 915, 958, 959, 963, 963, 964, 965, 969, 990, 989, 993, iooo > 
1002, 1027, 1032, 1033, 1034, 1019, 1035, iioi, 1100, 1119, 1120, 1121, 1122, 1146, 1134, 1139, 
1138, 1254, 1256, 1257, 1376, 1267, and 1205 in village Fatepur and meets at point ‘37’. 

37- 38-39, Lines pass along the part common boundary of villages Fatcpur and Dungri 
common boundary of villages Dungri and Sxlphor, common boundary of Petia and Silphor (i.e 
along the part right bank of River Damodar) and then pass along the common boundary of vil- 
lages Petia and jarma (Damodar River) and meet at point ‘39’. 


39-1. line passes along the part left bank of River Damodar through villages Jaima, Garstdih, 
Jatudih, Bardubhl, Majhiladih or Jogidi and Tetengabad and meets at point staitirg point ‘i’_ 


Schedule 

(Mining Rights) Parbatpur Block ( Jcdgaria ) 

SUB-BLOCK V 


Serial number Village Thana Thana District Area Remarks 

number 


1. Fatepur Chas 2X2 Dhanbad 


Part 


Total area: 43 - 70 acres (approximately) 

OR 17-70 Hectares (approximately) 


Plot numbers to be acquired in village Fatepur-. 

1121CP), ii22(p), xi23(P), 1124, 1125, IX26(P), IIZ7 to 1133, 1134(F), 1135, ii36(P;,il37(P> 
1 138(F), 1205CP), i255(P), 1258(F), i26o(P), 1261, I262(P), 1263(F), 1264(F), 1266, 1266(F), 
I267(P), 1368 to 1282, 1283(P), 1284 to 1300, i30i(P), 1302(F), I303(P), 1304(F), I3°5(P), I308(P),. 
1309(F), 1310, I3xi, 1314(F), 1363(F), 1364 to 1382, 1383(F), I384(P), and 1385CP). 

BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION : 

41-42-43. Lines passthrough plot numbers 1121, 1x28, 1305. 1304, 13C9, 1308, 1314, 1303 
1302, 1134, 1301, 1363, 1385, 1384, 1383, and 1283 in village Fatepur and meet at point '43’. 

43-44. Line passes along the part common boundary of villages Fatepur and A mlabad, 
and Fatepur and Dungri and meets at point ‘44'. 

44-41. Line passes through plot numbers 1205, 1267, 1266, 1264, 1263, 1262, 1260, 1258, 
1301, 1255, 1136, 1137, 1138, 1134, 1126, 1122, 1123, 1122, and IX2X in village Fatepur and meet 
at starting point ‘41’. 


No. C2-20(3i)/63.) 
RAM SAHAY, Under Secy. 



Bic. 9(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 84. ■ IWIB/PAUSA 9, J 88 S . ; 3557 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 29th November 1966 

S.O. 3903. — In pursuance of clause (c) of sub-section (1) of Section 21 of the 
State Bank of India Act, 1955 (23 of 1955), the Central Government, In consultation 
with the Reserve Bank of India, hereby nominates the following persons to be 
members of the Bombay, Calcutta, Madras, New Delhi, Kanpur and Ahmedabad 
Local Boards of the State Bank of India respectively with effect from the 1st 
December, 1966: — 


Bomba y Local Board 

1. Shri Zafar Futehally, Juhu Lane, Andheri, Bombay. 

2. Shri K. C. Maitra, Sankey Electrical Stamping Ltd., Wakefield House, 

Ballard Estate, Bombay. 

3. Dr. D. T. Lakdawala, Department of Economics, University of Bombay, 

Bombay. 


Calcutta Local Board 

1. Shri D. P. Goenka, 17, Belvedere Road, Alipore, Calcutta. 

2. Shri Amitava Pal Chaudhury, "Faraday House", P-17 Mission Row Exten- 

sion, Calcutta-13. 

3. Shri P. P. Chakravarti, 160, Bipin Behari Ganguli Street, Calcutta. 

Madras Local Board 

1. Shri P. Brahmayya,- -9, Dr. C, P. Ramaswamy Iyer Road, Madras. 

2. Shri K. S. Karayalar, Thycaud, Trivandrum. 

3. Shri N. Ramaratnam, Kaumudl, Warren Road, Madras, 

New Delhi Local Board 

1. Shri S. K. Das, A59, Kailash Colony, New Delhi-14. 

2. Shri Kirpa Narain. 4, Raj Narain Road, Civil Lines, Delhi, 

3. Shri J. B. DadachanJI, Dadachanji & Co., 4th Floor (Rear Side). Jeevan 

Vihar, 3, Parliament Street, New Delhi-1. 

Kanpur Local Board 

1. Shri K. M. Wilcox, British India Corporation Ltd., Sutherland House, 

Kanpur. 

2. Shri Devendra Swarup, 15/96, Civil Lines. Kanpur. 

3. Dr. Rajendra Rohatgi, 16/29, Civil Lines. Kanpur. 

Ahmedabad Local Board 

1. Shri Rohit C. Mehta, Ram Nivas, Panchvatl, Ellisbrldge, Ahmedabad. 

2. Shri Jadavjl K. Modi, Chairman, District Central Co-operative Bank, 

Bhavnagar. 


'UNo. F. 8/83/60-SB.I 



New Delhi , the 14 th December 1&66 


S.O.3904 — Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India a* on the 9th December 1966 

Banting DtPAarslsKT 

Ljamlittbs Rs, Assets Rs. 


Capital Paid op ... 3,00,00,000 Notes 18,87,73,000 

Rtqjee Cote 4,50,000 

Reserve Fund , . 8o,M/x,aoa Small Coin . 3,39,000 


National Agricultural Credit (Long 
Term Operations) Fund * * 


Sit* Purchased and Discounted : — 
115,0^,00^x0 {«) infernal 


(I) External 


National Agricultural Credit 
(Stabilisation) Fond 


(e) Government Treasury Bills 
i^ooyodiooo Balance* Held Abroad* 


National Industrial Credit (Long term 

Operation*) Fund . 20^>3/yyx: Investments •• 

Loan* and Advances to — 


327,89.53^00 

23,18,18,000 

108^,29,000 


(i) Central Government 

(ii) State Governments @ 


79>66.88,ooo 


353 8 iHE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24 , V 96 6 /PADSA S. 1888 [Pa»t II- 


Deposits : 

(a) Government— 


(0 Central Government 

i°b 39 > 32 ,°oo 

(a) State Governments . 

5,51,04,000 

(6) Banks 


(i) Scheduled Commercial Banks 
(si) Sdieduled Stste Co-3perati»e Banks 
(is) Non-Scheduled State Co-operative Banks 
(m) Other Banks 

118,63,94,000 

4,77,03,000 

53 . 70,000 

6,19,000 

(c) Others .... 

268,28,52^00 

Bills Payable . 

Other Liabilities .... 

37 > 3 1 > 96 / s °o 

65,48.39^°° 

Rupees 

840,00,09^300 


Lotas sad Adnnfes eo t— 

(f) Scheduled Co mm ercial Banks t . • • 18,06,70,000 

(*0 State Co-operative Banksff .... 170,39,84,000 

(to) Others ....... 2,70,51,000 

Loans, Advances and Investments from National Agricultural 
Credit (Long Term Operations) Fond — 

(a) Loans and Advances to 

(i) State Governments 29,19,25,000 

( ii ) State Co-operative Banks .... i3r46,90>°oo 

(in) Central Land Mortgage Banks 

(i) Investment in Central Land Mortgage Bank Debentures 7,11,01,000 


Loans and Advances from National Agricultural Credit 
(Stabilisation) Fund — 

Loans and Advances to State Co-operative Bank s 4,06,51,000 

Loans, Advances and Investments from National Industrial 
Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund— 

(a) Loans and Advances to the Development Bank . 4,42,46,000 

(t) Investment in bond s/debentures issued by the 
Development Bank. ...... 

Other Assets 32,50,41,000 

Rupees . 840,00,09,000 


•Includes Gash and Short-term Securities. 

••Excluding investments from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fusd and the National Industrial Credit (Long Term 
Operation*) Fund. 

% Excluding Loans and Advances from the Na'iooal .Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund, but including temporary overdrafts to 
State Governments. 

t Tod ude» Rs. 2,60,00,000 advanced to Scheduled Commercial Banks against usance bills under section 17(4X0) of the R, B. I. Act. 
ffExdading Loans sad Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund and the Nati nal A; ricultural Credit (Stabili- 
sation) Fund. 

Qted. the 14th day of December, r 966 . 


Mo. 5(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, IMfl/SAUSA », 1S$9 3559 


An account purwant to the Reserve Bank of Ind» Act, 1934, tor the wee* ended th* 9th day at December i 9&6 

Ini DwAmtntr 


LuaiunE* 

Ri. 

R*. 

AaiTs 

Ri. 

Ra. 

Note* held in the Banking Depart- 
ment 

Note* in Ctrcolttioa 

18,87,73,000 

2864,04,19,000 


Gold Gun and Bullion : — 

(a) Held in India . 

(J) Held otinide India 

113,89,23,000 


Total Note* iatcai 


2882,91,92,000 

Foreign Secaritie* 

181,42,01,000 





Total 


297,31^000 




Rupee Coin 


85^9,0 1/xx 




Government of India Rupee Securities 


2499 , 9 1,59000 




Internal Bill* of Exchange and other 
commercial paper 



Tom LlAStLITlEJ 


2882,91,92,000 

Total Assets 


2882,91,92^000 


Dated the 14th day of December, 1966. P. C. BHATTACHARYYA, 

Governor. 

[No. F. 3(3>BC/66.] 


35<So 1HE GAZETTE OI INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966/fAUSA 8, 1888 [Fabi-IIl- 


Ma. 8 (H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24, 1966/PAUSA 8 , 1888 3561 


New Delhi , the 15th December 1906 

S.O. 3905. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (7) of section 
36 of the State Bank of India’ Act, 1955 (23 of 1955) and in continuation of this 
Department's notification No. F.4/92/61-SB dated the 16th December, 1964, the 
Central Government, in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India, hereby 
directs that for the purpose of the conduct of the business of the Bank of 
Baghelkhand acquired by the State Bank of India under section 35 of the 
said Act, during the period between the 1st January 1967 and the 31st Decem- 
ber, 1968 both days inclusive: — 

(1) Section 33 of the State Bank of India Act shall apply as if: — 

(a) Clause (i) has been substituted by the following clause namely "(i) 

the advancing and lending of money and the opening of cash credits 
with or without security”; and 

(b) In clause (iv). the words “upon any of the securities specified in sub- 

clauses (a) to (d) of clause Cl)” have been omitted and for the 
words “for or into any of the other investments above specified” 
the words “for and into any other investments” have been substi- 
tuted. 

(2) The State Bank shall be exempt from clauses (a) and (c) of sub-section 
tfl) of section 34 and clause (a) and sub-clause (ii) of clause (b) of sub-section 
<3) of that Section, in so far as they preclude the State Bank from:— 

(i) continuing or realising the loans or advances made for a period longer 

than six months or made against the security of Immovable proper- 
ty; 

(ii) continuing or realising the loans or advances made against any nego- 

tiable instrument which does not carry on it the several responsibi- 
lities of at least two persons or firms unconnected with each other 
in general partnership or docs not mature within six months of 
the date of the loan or advance. 

[No. F.4/29/60-SB] 


New Delhi, the 17 th December 1966 

S.O. 3906. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949) the Central Government, on the recommendation 
of the Reserve Bank of India, extends for a period of one year till the 31st De- 
cember 1967, the exemption granted in S.O. 774 dated the 19th March, 1966, to 
the National Bank of Pakistan, Calcutta and the Habib Bank Ltd., Bombay, from 
the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 11 of the said Act. 

[No. F. 17 (17)-BC/66.] 

V. SWAMINATHAN, Under Secy. 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance) 

New Delhi, the 15th. December 1966 

S.O. 3907. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (5) of section 5 
■of the Emergency Risks (Goods) Insurance Act, 1962 (62 of 1962), the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby makes the following scheme further to amend the Emergency Risks 
(Goods) Insurance Scheme issued with the notification of the Government of India 
In the Ministry of Finance (Department of Economic Affairs) No, S-O. 3945, dated 
the 26th December, 1962, namely: — 

1. (1) This Scheme may be called the Emergency Risks (Goods) Insurance 
^(Fourth Amendment) Scheme, 1966. 

(2) It shall come into force on the first day of January, 1967. 

2. In the Emergency Risks (Goods) Insurance Scheme, for paragraph 10, the 
following paragraph shall be substituted, namely: — 


“10. Rate of Premium. 




3562 GAZETTE OF INDIA i DECEMBER 24 , 1968/tAUSA 9, 1888 


[Part II— 


(1) Subject to the provisions of sub-paragraph (2) the premium payable under 
any policy of insurance Issued in respect of the quarter ending on the 31st day of 
March, 1967 shall — 

(a) in the case of a policy in force on the 31st day of December, 1966, be 
nil: 

(to) in any other case, be at the rate of six paise for every hundred rupees 
or any part thereof of the sum insured, subject to a maximum of 
twenty-five rupees. 

(2) The Central Government may, in its discretion, at any time during the said 
quarter, revise the premium payable under the policies referred to in sub-para- 
graph (1). 

(3) Where the amount of any premium payable under sub-paragraph (1) in- 
volves a fraction of a rupee, the premium shall be rounded off to the nearest 
rupee. The premium shall be payable in one lump sum in respect of the entire 
quarter for which the policy is in force: 

Provided that if any goods become insurable or are insured under this Scheme 
after the commencement of the quarter, the premium shall be payable in one lump 
sum, which shall be equivalent to the amount payable in respect of goods insur- 
able during the entire quarter reduced by an amount which bears to the first men- 
tioned amount the same proportion as the number of completed months in that 
quarter before the goods become insurable or are insured bears to three, the actual 
amount due in accordance with this proviso if it involves a fraction being rounded 
off to the nearest rupee. 

(4) Where the premium has been revised under sub-paragraph (2), the provi- 
sions contained in the proviso to sub-paragraph (3) shall apply for the purpose of 
calculation of the additional amount of premium payable or of the amount of pre- 
mium refundable, as the case may be, as a result at such revision, as if all the 
policies came into force on the date of such revision. 

[No. F. 10(6)-INS.I/66-ERI(I).]' 

S.O. 3908. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (6) of section 3 
of the Emergency Risks (Factories) Insurance Act, 1962 (63 of 1902), the Central 
Government hereby makes the following scheme further to amend the Emergency 
Risks (Factories) insurance Scheme issued with the notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Economic Alfairs) No. S.O. 
3946 dated the 26th December, 1962, namely:— 

1. (1) This Scheme maly be called the Emergency Risks (Factories) Insurance 
(Fourth Amendment) Scheme, 1966. 

(2) It shall come into force on the first day of January, 1967. 

2. In the Emergency Risks (Factories) Insurance Scheme, for paragraph 8, the 
following paragraph shall be substituted, namely: — 

“8, Rate of premium. 

(1) Subject to the provisions of sub-paragraph (2) the premium payable under 
any policy of insurance issued in respect of the quarter ending on the 31st day of 
March, 1967, shall — 

(a) in the case of a policy in force on the 31st day of December, I960, be 

nil; 

(b) in any other case, be at the rate of ten paise for every hundred rupees 

or any part thereof of the sura insured, subject to a maximum of 
twenty-five rupees. 

(2) The Central Government may, In its discretion at any time during the said 
quarter, revise the premium payable under the policies referred to In sub-para- 
graph (1). 

(3) Where the amount of any premium payable under sub-paragraph (1) in- 
volves a fraction of a rupee, the premium shall be rounded off to the nearest rupee. 
The premium shall be payable in one lump sum in respect of the entire quarter for 
which the policy Is in force: 

Provided that if any factory becomes insurable or is insured under this Scheme- 
after the commencement of the quarter, the premium shall be equivalent to the 
amount payable In respect of factories insurable during the entire quarter reduced 
by an amount which bears to the first mentioned amount the same proportion as 




S«C. 8(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24, lOaO/PAUSA. S, 1888 356 


the number of completed months In that quarter before the factory becomes In- 
surable or is insured bears to three, the actual amount due in accordance with 
this proviso if it involves a fraction being rounded off to the nearest rupee. 

(4) Where the premium has been revised under sub-paragraph (2) the provi- 
sions contained in the proviso to sub-paragraph (3) shall apply for the purpose of 
calculation of the additional amount of premium payable or of the amount of 
premium refundable, as the case may be, as a result of such revision, as if all the 
policies came into force on the date of such revision.” 

[No. F.101 (5)-IN9.I/66-ERI(II).] 
RAJ K. NIGAM, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Revenue & Insurance) 

Insurance 

New Delhi, the 17th December 1966 

S.O. 3909. — Whereas the Central Government is satisfied that by Articles 3(2), 
13 and 16 of Section II (Law concerning foreign insurers) of Japanese Laws Relat- 
ing to Insurance Business 1963, insurance companies incorporated in India are 
required as a condition of carrying on insurance business in Japan to comply with 
certain special requirements not imposed on Insurers of that country under the' 
Insurance Act, 1938 (4 of 1936) (hereinafter referred to as “the Act”): 

Now, therefore. In exercise of the powers conferred by section 62 of the Act, 
tho Central Government is pleased to direct that the following requirements, being 
requirements as similar as may be to the said special requirements, shall be impos- 
ed on all insurers constituted, Incorporated or domiciled or having their principal 
place of business in Japan (hereinafter referred to as Japanese Insurers) as a 
condition of their carrying on the business of insurance in India, namely: — 

The Act shall apply to Japanese insurers as if after Section 62 of the Act the- 
following new section were added, namely: — 

“02A. Special requirements to be compiled with by Japanese Insurers. — (1) 
In the case of Japanese insurers a period of not less than three years 
from the date of their incorporation shall have elapsed before an 
application for registration is made and that they shall have shown- 
profits in their latest published accounts. 

(2) Japanese insurers shall hold in India assets in Rupees equivalent to the 

reserve for unexplred risks in respect of premiums written in India 
less reinsurances of general insurance contracts in the Rupee currency 
entered into by them in India. 

(3) Japanese insurers shall not enter into contracts of Insurance in any cur- 

rency other than the Rupee without the previous approval of the- 
Central Government”. 

[No. F. 107-IE(1)/66.J 
A. RAJAGOPALAN, 
Officer on Specal Duty and' 
Ex-Officio Jt. Secy. 


CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECT TAXES 

Income-Tax 

New Delhi, the 12th December 1966 

S.O. 3910.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 122* 
of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) and of all other powers enabling it in that 
behalf, the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby makes the following further 
amendments in the schedule appended to Its Notification No. 17-Income-tax dated! 
14th January, I960, namely: 

Against Nasik Range, Nasik under columns 2, the following shall b e added; 

16. A-Ward, Malegoan 

17, B-Ward, Malegoan 



3564 Tttz GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1M6/PAUSA 3. 1 B 88 


[Part II- 


Explanatory Note 

The amendment has become necessary on account of abolition of E Ward 
Nasik and creation of new wards known as A & B-Wards, Malegoan in the 
Commissioner’s charge. 

(This note does not form part of the notification but is intended to be merely 
clarlflcatory) . 


[No. 119/F. No. 5O/4/60-ITJ.1 
P. G. GANDHI, Under Secy. 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE, ALLAHABAD 

Allahabad, the 18th November 1966 

S.O. 3911. — In supersession of Central Excise Allahabad Collectorate Notifica- 
tion No. l/CE/81 dated 1st March, 1961 and in exercise of the powers conferred 
on me under proviso to Rules 15 and 16 of Central Excise Rules, 1944, I here- 
by notify In the enclosed schedule the areas, in which growers and curers of 
tobacco will be exempted from declaration of their area and yield respectively 
under the above rules provided that the area cultivated and the auantity of tobacco 
cured by a grower/ curer does not exceed in the maxima specified In cols. 3 and 
4 of the schedule In respect of the areas notified in Col. 2 thereof. The above 
exemptions under Rules 15 and 16 of Central Excise Rules, 1944, will not apply 
to flue-cured tobacco and tobacco other than flue-cured used In the manufacture 
of cigarettes, smoking mixtures for pipes and cigarettes and biris. 

Schedule showing Revenue jurisdiction of areas in Allahabad Collectorate ex- 
empted under Rules 16 & 16 of Central Excise Rules, 1944. 


Si. 

No. 

Name of Districts or portion thereof 

Exempted Exempted Remarks 
areas in Qty. in 

Acres. Kgs. 

1 

2 

3 4 5 


1. (a) Entire Varanasi Distt. except parganas Asnao, Kondh 3 

and C viuthu ofGyanourTahsil. 

(b) Pirgatiis Astiao, Kindh md Ch juthar of Gyanpur 10 

Tchsilcxcopt villages Sherpur,Godhraj and Gopiganj 

2. (a) Entire M'rzipur Distt. except portion of parganas 3 

KisiWar and Kantit of Mirzapur Sadar Tehsil lying 
to the north of river Ganges. 

(b) Portions of puganas KasiWar and Kantit of Mirzapur 10 


Sadar Tehsil lying to the north of river Ganges except 
villages Manwa, Jogpatti, Kachhwa and Khamaria. 

3. Entire District of Ohasipur Except the : — 

(ij Village Anau of Ghaztpur Tehsil. . , .1 

(tQ Villages D:Waitha& G.ahmar of Zamania Tehsil. j 

(iii) VillagesJalalabad s Mandia,Miaihari,Burharpur, V 3 

Bahariabad and N likdeh of Saidpur T ehsil. 

(iv) Villages Raj pur, Parasa,Utraon and Chattarpur of I 

Pargana Mohammdabad . J 

4, Entire JaunpurDistt.excaptJauiipucanl Michhlishahar 3 

tehsilsaoi parganas GiazaraofKarakat Tehsil. 


45 

45 

45 

45 


45 


45 


5, Entire Allahabad Distt. except Sirathu and Manjhanpur 3 45 

Tchsils and areas within Corporationlimits of Allahabad 
City. 

<5. Patti And Pratapgarh tehsils of Pratapgarh Distt. . 3 45 






#«a. 5(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966/PADSA 3, 1888 35^5 


7- 

(a) Azamgarh Sadar Tehsil except areas within the Mu- 
nicipal limits of Azamgarh city and Parganas Atraulia 
and Koria of Phoolpur tehsil and whole of Lalganj 
tehsil excluding pargana Deogaon of Azamgarh 
District. 

3 

45 


(6) Entire Sagri Tehsil excluding villages : — 

(0 Binsgaon, Jolaiapur, Gopalpur, Jamilpur Azamat- 
garh & Jeaupur of Sagri Pargana & 

(ii) V. Miharajganj of Gopalpur Pargana. 

3 

45 


(c) Entire Garha Pargana of BalliaDistt. . 

3 

45 


(a) Entire Doaba Pargana of Ballia Distt. except village Bairia 
C«) Entire Ballia Pargana of Ballia Distt. except villago 

3 

45 


Chhata. 

3 

45 

■8. 

Entire Gorakhpur District 

3 

45 

9- 

Entire Deoria District. 

3 

45 

IO. 

Miu, KarwijNaraini and Banda Tchslla of Banda District 

4 

45 

II. 

EntireBareillyDistrictexceptBarcilly Municipal area. 

4 

45 

12, 

Entire Budaun District except Badaun Municipal limits 
and Sahas Wan town of tehsil Sahas wan. 

4 

*'5 

13 . 

Entire Pilibhit District 

4 

45 

14- 

(а) EitireShahjanpur Teh. except Sahahjanpur city and] 
villages Badshahnagar and Nagar Pal. 

(б) E ltireTilhar Tehsil except Tilhar town. 

4 

4 

45 

45 


(c) Entire Tehsils Jalalabad and Powayan. . 

4 

45 

15 . 

Entire Hardoi District Except Pargana Gopamar of 
Hardoi Teh,, Pehani village and Shahabad town of 
Shahbad Teh.; 

4 

45 

1 6, 

Entire Tehs. Bilari, Amroha, Hasanpur and villago 
PakarWa of Moradabad Teh. of Moradabad District. 

3 

45 

17 . 

Entire Bijnor District 

3 

45 

is. 

Eitire RamourDistrlctoxceptSaurTeh. j . 

3 

45 

19 - 

Entire Almorha District ...... 

IO 

45 

20 * 

Entire Nainital District . . .... 

10 

45 

21 * 

Entire PauriGarhwal District . - . . . , 

IO 

45 

22, 

Entire TehriGarhawal District, .... 

IO 

45 

23 . 

Entire Saur Tehsil excluding V. Tatida, Sar Bhat Baqqal 
and Mustafabad. 

IO 

45 

24 . 

Entire Thakurdwara and Mordabad Tehsils except V. 
Paratwara of Moradabad Teh. of Moradabad District 

IO 

45 

25 - 

Entire Sultanpur District . ..... 

3 

45 

■26. 

Entire tehsils Mohanlalganj and Lucknow except® Luck- 
now Municipal Limits, (ii) Amethi (iii) Salempur & 

(iv) Nagrani 

4 

45 

27 . 

Entire tehsil Safipur of Unnao Distt. except villages Ban- 
garmau, Moradabad, Unwan, Udshala, Bhansar 
Miusarah, Tejpur ; Jegtapur, Hasapur, Raghunapur, 
Fatchpurj Hamza and Khals. 

4 

45 

28. 

(а) Entire Unnao T ehsil except villages Padari, Khurd, 
Padooda, Atwa & Raithuna. 

(б) Entire Hasangatvj Teh. except villages MohaW,AsiWan 
Rasollabad, Hasanpur and Moraiyan. . 

4 

45 


4 

45 

29 . 

Entire Milihabad Tehsil except villages Mohana, Charo- 
wan, Ghandanpur, Nagar, Malinabad, Kumrawan, 
Indara, Narosa & U sarana . 

4 

45 

30 . 

(a) Entire Gonda Distt. esxceptNawabganj Tehsil. 

(b) Nawabganj Tehsil. ..... 

4 

45 

3 

45 



3566 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24, 1966/PAUSA 3 , 1888 [Part II- 


I 2 

3 

4 5 

31. Entire Basti District. 

3 

5 

32. ( a ) Bahraich and NanptraTehsils of Bahraich District.' 

4 

45 

33. ( b ) Kaserganj Tchsilof BaharaichDistricL. 

3 

45 

34. (a) Entire tehsil Khcri of Lakhimpur Distt, except the 

villages (i) Pangi Khcri KunWarpur, Motipur, Pahar- 
khan Ka Purwa of Pargana Khcri, (ii) Ashokapur, 
Bandha Diha, Jokhapurwa, Kaikusnn and Pandari 
of Pargana Srinagar and Pallin of Pargana Pallia. 

3 

45 

35. ( b ) EntircTehsilMohamdiofLakhimpurDiRtt. except 

the villages (i) Mohamdi of Pargana Mohamdi (ii) 
Barwar of Pargana Pasgawan;(iii) Kurali of Pargana 
Haidrabad (iv) Mohammadpur of Pargana Magadpur 
and(v) Babona of Pargana Kasta. 

(c) Entire Tehsil Nighasan of Lakhimpur District excep 1 
the villatea (i) Dhaurara Jokhpurwa, Majharia, 
Abhaipur, Lunianpurwa of Pargana Dhaurara, (ii) 
Bhojhia, Idlispur Isanagar, Bershingpur, GurWa, 
Kurtay, Rudarpur, Janakpurwa, Hulaspunva and 
Ganeshpur of Pargana Isanagar(iii) Singhai, Nighasan 
Guraria, Jamahaura, Pandia, and Barotha of 
pargana Bighasa (iv) Paliakalan of pargana Palia. 

3 

3 

45 

45 

36. ( a ) Entire Misrikh Teh. of Sitapur Distt. except the 

villages (i) Tilliani, Aunt, Vazeernagar, Scothan, 
Bhikanpur, Imlia, Saidpur and Meerpur of Pargana 
Misrikh. 

(ft) Machhretta of pargana Machhreta. 

(iff) Gangapur of pargana Gondlarnau, . . 

(iv) Palia, Palia, Tikra, Chhaba, Bcgampur and Kusaila 
of Pargana Maholi. 

(ti) Kundera of Pargana Kurauna. 

( vi ) Bansi, Biswan & Faridpur of Pargana, Chaundhara 
(uff) Aurangabad of Pargana Aurangabad. 

3 

45 

Entire tehsil Sitapur of Sitapur. .... 

3 

45 

(f>) Distt. except the villages: — 



(i) Khairabad of Pargana Khairabad. 

(ft) Sitapur and Bilhera of PurgaUa Sitapur. 

(fit) Hargaon, Kcotikalan and Turtipuv of Pargana 

Hargaon. 



(«) Entire Sidhauli Tehsil of Sitapur Distt. except pargana"' 
Mohamoodabad and except the villages : — ' 

3 

45 

(i) Dharampur, Babapur, Diorvan, Runda, Khamaria, 
Padaria, Ramdiari, Helpara, Gaogolin, Itaya, and 
Karuapur of pargana Sadarpur. 

(it) Sahcla, Hardiapurwa, Raghevaprr, TeWaripur, 
Naherwal and Budheypurwa of pargana South Kund- 
ri. 



36. ( d ) TambaurParpanalyingintheeastofChaukariverin 

BisWan Tehsil except the villages Patrasa, Deoria, 
Zalampur, Seota, Akbarpur, Dhakia, Roha, Datauni. 

4 

45 

37. Entire Distt. Faizabad except Ajodhya, Municipallimits 
ofTanda; villages Khajayan,Surahurpur, Jalalpur, 
Shahzadpur (Akbarpur.) 

4 

45 

38, Entire Distr. Rai Bareilly except villages Jais, Nasirabad, 
Saina, Chak, Ahora, Tantapur Bhilampur, Chandni, 

Mira, Swaya Paunev, Maukhanduli, Bhai, and Kila 

Red Bareilly. 

4 

45 



Sza 8(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24, 19G8/PACSA 3, 1888 . 3567 


I 2 

- 3 4 5 

39, Entire District Barabanki except: — 

4 45 

(a) Villages Paisar, Sldhaur, Amdahn, Partapganj, Ma- 
liamudabad, Mitai, Bharigaon, Pindlin, Abrahimpur, 
Masuli and Shahpur. 


Trilokpur, Kimuor, Tanda, Mohammdupur, Bhagauli , 
Fatehpur Madanpur, Chandoori, Baddosari, Shahpur, 
Lalli, Shari and Kathari . 


Bisain, Bahrauli, Tikaitganj, Kurai, Mahmud-Bichun- 
pur, Jahangirabud,BandjinngarandNidura. 


40. Entire Districts Chamoli and Pithauragarh. 

10 45 

41. Entire Tehsils Fatehpur and Bindki of District Fatehpur 

3 45 

[No. 5/CE/1906] 
V. PARTHASARATHY, 
Collector- 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 

New Delhi, the nth December 1966 

S.O 3912.— The Central Government, having considered in consultation with 
the Forward Markets Commission, the application for renewal of recognition made 
under section 5 of the Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1952 (74 of 1952) by 
the Pepper and Ginger Merchants' Association Limited, Bombay, and being satis- 
fied that it would he in the interest of the trade and also in the public interest so 
to do, hereby grants, In exercise of the powers conferred by section 0 of the said 
Act, recognition to the said Association for a further period of 3 years ending the 
18th January, 1970 in respect of forward contracts in pepper within the limits of 
Greater Bombay as defined in the Bombay General Clauses Act, 1904 (Bombay 
Act 1 of 1904), as in force in the State of Maharashtra. 

The recognition hereby granted is subject to the condition that the said Asso- 
ciation shall comply with such directions as may from time to time be given by 
the Forward Markets Commission. 

[No. 34(14)-Com, Genl. (FMC)/60.] 
New Delhi , the lDth December 1966 

S.O. 3913. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (b) of section 2 
of the Foreign Awards (Recognition and Enforcement) Act, 1961 (45 of 1961), the 
Central Government hereby declares tho Federal Republic of Germany, to be a 
territory to which the Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign 
Arbitral Awards, set forth in the Schedule to that Act applies. 

[No. U(2)-Com(Genl)/04.T 
M. L. GUPTA, Under Secy. 


New Delhi , the 19tli December 1966 

S.O. 3914.— In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 4 of the Coii; Industry 
Act, 1953 (45 of 1953), read with sub-rule (1) of Rule 5 of the Coir Industry 
Buies, 1954, as amended by the Coir Industry (Amendment) Rules, 1963, and with 
reference to this Ministry’s Notification S.O. 2072 dated the 31st August, 1966, the 
Central Government hereby appoints the following persons as members of the 



[Part II— 


3568 THE GAZETTE Of INDIA) DECEMBER 24, 1966/PAUSA 3, 1888 


Coir Board under the category "(b) Persona engaged in the production of husks;, 
coir and coir yam and in the manufacture of coir products” for the period ending; 
with the 31st day of August, 1969: — 

1. Shri T. V, Thomas, Chairman, Municipal Council, Alleppey. 

2. Sri C. G. Sadasivan, President, Coir Factory Workers’ Union, Shertallai. 

3. Shri M. Kanaran, Coir Workers’ Union Kozhikode. 

[No. 21 (1) /66-TEX. (E) 1 


CORRIGENDUM ~ 

New Delhi, the 13th December 1966 

S.O. 3915. — In the Government of India, Ministry of Commerce Notification 
No. S.O. 2043 dated the 18th August, 1966, published in Part II, Section 3, sub- 
section (ii) of the Gazette of India dated the 3rd September, 1960, the full stop 
occuring after the words "or Deputy Textile Commissioner appointed by the Cen- 
tral Government” shall be deleted and the word "and” substituted In its place. 

2. This Ministry's corrigendum of even number dated the 7th November, 1966 
is hereby cancelled. 


[No. 1(4) Tex. (I)/06.] 
A. G. V. SUBRAHMANIAM, Under Secy. 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 13th December 1900 

S.O. 3916. — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Notification No. S.O. 1029, 
dated the 28th Much, 1966, 1 hereby direct that the Producer, specified in column 1 of the Table 
below of the goods as specified in column 2 thereagainst shall sol' 3-11 tonnes of the goods in 
his possession to the persons specified in the corresponding entry in column 3 of the said table 
for purposes of m nuficcurc for etoort, at the price indicated thcrcagainst in column 4 subject 
to the conditions enumerated in column 5 of the said tabic. 


Table 


Name of the firm Specification Name of the Price Conditions 

(Producer) of goods exporter 


1 


2 


3 


A 


5 


The Secretary, Joint 
Plant Committee, 
18, Rabindra Sara- 
ni, Calcutta. 


G. I. Sheets M/s. Frick India At normal con- 

Ltd., 13/3, Main trolled price 

10' x 4' — 18 Mathura Road, at the time of 

Gauge — .3- 8 Faridabad delivery, 

tonnes. (Punjab). 

G.I. Sheets 


8'x3' — 16 Gauge 
— 0-3 tonnes 
Total: — 3* 11 tonnes. 


Supplies to be 
made to the 
exporters 00 

an immediate 
basis either at 
Delhi or 

Faridabad. 


[No. 3 r (r i)/66-EP/Engg.] 





Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, I966/PAUSA 3, 1888 , 3569 


SO. 3917. — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Notification No, S.O, 1020, dated 
the 28th March 1966, 1 hereby direct that the Producer, specified in column 1 of the Table below 
of the goods as specified in column 2 there against shall sell 39 365 tonnes of the goods in hi* 
possession to the persons specified in the corresponding entry in column 3 of the said table for 
purposes of manufacture for export, at the price indicated thercagainst in column 4 subject to 
the conditions enumerated in column 5 of the said table. 


Table 


Name of the 
firm (producer) 

Specification 
of goods 

Najrje of the 
exporter 

Price 

Conditions 

X 

2 

3 

4 

5 

Mis. Hindustan 
Steel Ltd., 
Rourkela. 

C.R.C.A. 

Sheets. 

Ahmedabad Eagle 
Engineering Enterprise 
Pvt. Ltd., 410 Naroda 
Railway Crossing, 

Naroda, Ahmedabad. 

Normal 

J.P.C. 

Price. 

On a apriority basis 
through H.S.L. 

Sales Branch at 
Rourkela. 


(No. 31/15/66-EP (Hogg). ] 


New Delhi, the 15 th December 1966 

S.O. 3918. — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Notification No. 

S.O. 1029, dated the 28th March, 1966, I hereby direct that the Producer, specified 
In Column I of the Table below of the goods as specified in Column 2 thereagainst 
shall sell 227 Kgms. of the goods in his possession to the persons specified in the 
corresponding entry in column 3 of the said table for purposes of manufacture for 
export, at the price indicated thereagainst in column 4 subject to the conditions 
enumerated in column 5 of the said table. 


Table 


Name of the 
firm (Producer) 

Specflcatlon 
of goods * 

Name of the 
exporter 

Price 

Conditi one 

I 

2 

3 

4 

5 

M/s. Chase Bright 
Steel Ltd., 

Vaswan Mansions, 
Dinshaw Vacha 
Road, Bombay. 

Bright Steel 

Rods 

EN 3 B-2' diam. 

Bharat Diamond 
Industries 
t6/A-Khrt- 
wad ; , 12th Lane, 
Bombay-4 BR 

Normal 
Selling 
Price 
as on the 
dates of 
delivery. 

Supplies 
to be made 
immediately. 


[No. 31(8) /06-EP (Engg.).] 


8.0. 3919. — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Notification No 

S.O. 1029, dated the 28th March, 1966. 1 hereby direct that the Producer, specified 
in Column I of the Table below of the goods as specified in Column 2 thereagainst 
shall sell 38.5 tonnes of the goods in his possession to the persons specified in the 
corresponding entry in column 3 of the said table for purposes of manufacture for 
export, at the price indicated thereagainst in column 4 subject to the conditions 
enumerated in column 5 of the said table. 



3570 


1 HE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24, 19G6/PAUSA 3, 188S 


[Part II— 


Table 


Name of the Specification Name of the Price Conditions 

firm (Producer) of goods exporter. 


I 

2 

3 

4 

5 

Indian Aluminium 

Aluminium 

Calcutta Wire 

Normal 

Supplies 

Go.) Ltd., 

Wire Rods 

Works, 6, Til- 

selling 

should be 

Calcutta. 

of electro- 

Jala Road, 

price at 

made imme- 


lytic 

quality. 

Calr.utta-46. 

the time 
of delivtry. 

diately as the 
delivery 
of the export 
order haa to be 
completed by 
the end of 
December 1966. 


[No. 31(9)/ 66-EP(Engg,)J 
By Order etc. 

A. C. BANERJEE, Director 

Essential Commodities (Regulation of Production and Distri- 
bution for Purposes of Export) Order, I9(5G. 


MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM & CHEMICALS 

New Delhi, the 9th December 1966 

S.O.' 3920- — Whereas by a notification of the Government of India In the 
Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals S.O. No. 3176 dated the 14th October, 1966 
under sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of 
Right of User in Land) Act, 1962 (60 of 1962). the Central Government declared 
its intention to acquire the right of user in the lands specified in the Schedule 
appended to that notification lor the purpose of laying pipelines; 

And whereas the competent authority has, under sub-section (i) of section 6 
of the said Act, submitted report to the Government; 

And, whereas, the Central Government has, after considering the said report, 
decided to acquire the right of user in the lands specified in the Schedule ap- 
pended to this notification; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (i) of sec- 
tion 6 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby declares that the right 
of user In the said lands specified in the Schedule appended to this notification Is 
hereby acquired for laying the pipelines and in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of thaf section, the Central Government directs that the right 
of user in the said lands, shall instead of vesting in the Central Government 
vest on the date of the publication of this declaration in the Oil and Natural Gas 
Commission free from all encumbrances. 


State : Gujarat 

Schedule 
District : Broach 


Taluka : Ankleshwar 

Village 

Survey No. 

Acre 

Guntha Sq. Yds. 

Piludra , 

2^8 

0 

2S 112 

Adadra 

70 

0 

12 34 

[No, 31/38/63-ONG-Vol. 7.] 


S.O. 3921. — Whereas by a notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals S.O. No, 3175 dated the 14th October, 1966 
under sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of 
Right of User in Land) Act, 1962 ( 50 of 1962), the Central Government declared 
its intention to acquire the right of user in the lands specified in the Schedule 
appended to that notification for the purpose of laying pipelines; 



Sue, 8(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1900/P AUSA 3 , 1888 


3571 


And whereas the competent authority has, under sub-section (i) of section 6 
of the said Act, submitted report to the Government; 

And, whereas, the Central Government lias, after considering the said report, 
decided to acquire the right of user in the lands specified in the Schedule ap- 
pended to this notification; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (i) of sec- 
tion G of the said Act, the Central Government hereby declares that the right of 
user In the said lands specified in the Schedule appended to this notification is 
hereby acquired for laying the pipelines and in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of that section, the Central Government directs that the right 
of user in the said lands, shall instead of vesting in the Central Government, 
vest on the date of the publication of this declaration in the Oil and Natural Gas 
Commission free from all encumbrances. 


State : Gujarat 

Schedule 

District : Kaim 

Taluka : 

Anand 

Village 

Survey No. 

Acre 

Guntha Sq, Yds. 


Anand 

. 1144 P 


0 

3 

104 

33 

H45 


0 

6 


D 

1174 


0 

8 

43 

)1 

1253 


0 

I 

• 0 

33 

1300 /T 


0 

I 

0 

33 

1298 /E 


0 

3 

52 

3 5 

1295 


0 

5 

5 

J) 

1177 


0 

13 

68 

D 

U47 


0 

4 

10 

1 3 

849 





849 


0 

37 

0 


853 





5' 

734/t 


0 

4 

60 

33 

H 14 /P 


0 

5 

95 

Vtisad , 

. 15/1 


0 

5 

87 

33 

932 


0 

22 

10 

»3 

677 /P 


0 

10 

112 

Vadol . 

. 617 


0 

0 

95 

33 

273/3 


0 

1 

«7 

33 

601/2 


0 

I 

0 

Adas . 

. i49 


0 

15 

93 

33 

67 1 


0 

0 

112 

33 

671 


0 

9 

0 

33 

153 


0 

« 

no 

Bakrol 

- 2332/2 


0 

3 

54 

Jol . 

9 


0 

1 

100 





(No. 31/41/04-Col, 

I.! 




C. P. 

JACOB, Under Secy, 


New Delhi , the 18th Deceinber 1966 

S.O. 3922. — Whereas Bombay Port Trust should be enabled, for the purpose of 
preparing “MASTER PLAN” for the development of Port of Bombay, now under 
preparation by their Consulting Engineers, M/s. Bertlin and Partners, to furnish 
Information to the latter relating to detailed statistics of the POL Traffic handled 
at the Port of Bombay during 1965-66. 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of sub-rule (4) of revised Rule 52 of the Defence of 
India Rules 1962, read with sub-clause (vi) of clause (b) of that sub-clause, the 
Central Government horeby authorises Bombay Port Trust to furnish information 
relating to detailed statistics of the POT. Traffic handled at the Port of Bombay 
during 1965-66, notwithstanding the provisions of Government of India Order No 
GSR 136 dated the 21st January, 1964: 

Provided that the said concern undertake In writing that they shall not publish 
or reveal or cause or allow to be published or revealed such Information or extracts 
therefrom except with the previous permission in writing of the Central 
Government. 

[No. F. 31(103) /66-Tech.]! 

S. SUNDARARAJAN, Under Secy. 



MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY 
(Indian Standards Institutions) 

New Delhi, the 9 th December 1966 

S. O. 3923 — la pursuance of sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 8 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955, as subse- 
quently amended, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that eleven licences, particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto 
annexed have been granted authorising the licensee s to use the Standard Mark. 

T® SCHEDtJLE 


SI. Licence No. Period of Validity Name and Address of Article/Process Covered 

No. (CM/L — ) From To the Licensee by the Licence Relevant Indian Standard 

and Elate 


1 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


1 CM/L-1353 
23-11-1966 


2 CMJL -1354 
30-11-1966 


3 CM/L-1355 
30-11-1966 


4 CM/L- 1 356 
30-U-1966 


1-1-67 


1-12-66 


1-12-66 


1-1-67 


31-12-67 


30-11-67 


30-11-67 


31-12-67 


M/s. Kores (India) Ltd., Pan- Carbon paper for type-wnters, 
chpakhadi Village, Huta- type III. 
tma Maruti Road, Thana 
(West) having their office 
at Plot No. 10, Off Haines 


Road, Worli, Bombay- x 8. 

M/s. Bengal Sports Goods In- 
dustries Co-operative Society 
Ltd., 45 B. T. Road, Ba- 
ranagore, Calcutta-50. 

M/s. Bengal Sports Goods 
Industries Co-operative 

Society Ltd., 45 B. T. 
Road, Baranagore, Cal- 
curta-50. 


Footballs, volleyballs, basket- 
balls and Water polo balls. 

Shuttle cocks. 


IS : 1551-1959 Specification 
for carbon paper for type- 
writers. 


IS : 417-1965 Specification for 
footballs, volleyballs, basket- 
balls and water polo balls 
(revised). 

IS : 415-1963 Specification for 
shuttlecocks (revised). 


M/s. Travancore Chemical BHC Water dispersible powder IS : 562-1962 Specification for 
Mfg. Co. Ltd., EIoot Udyog- concentrates. BHC Water dispersible pow- 

mandal, P. O., Via Alwaye, der concentrates. 

Kerala State having their 
Regd. office at Kalam- 
massery, Alwaye, Kerala 
State. 


3572 GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966/rAUSA 3, 1888 [Part II- 



5 CM/ 1,-1357 16-12-66 15-12-67 M/s. P. T. C. Sanghvi Co., Rolled brass sheets and strips IS : 410-1959 Specification for 

30-11-1966 no, Shiva) inagar, Poona-5. grade Rs. 63. rolled brass plate, sheet, j 

strip and foil (revised), I 

6 CM/L-1358 1-12-66 30-11-67 M/s. Shamsher Sterling Cable Weather proof polyt h e ne in- IS : 3035 (Part IT) — 1965 Spe- 

30-1 [-1966 Corpn. Ltd., Plot No. 7, striated, taped, braided and cification for thermoplastic in- 

S. S. I., Kirol Ghatkopar, compounded cable with alu- sulated .weather proof cables, 
Bombay-77 having their Regd. minium conductors of the polythene insulated, taped 
Office at Vaswani Mansions, following types : braided and compounded. 

Dinsha Vacha Road, Bom- 
bay-i. 

(t) Single core, 250/440 volts 
grade ; 

(a) Twin core, 250/440 
volts grade ; and 
(to) Single core, 650/1, too 
volts grade. 

7 CM/L-1359 1-12-56 30-11-67 M/s. Sky tone Electricals (In- Weatherproof polythene insu- IS : 3035 (Part II) — 1965 

30-11-1966 dia), 43, Industrial Area, lated, taped, braided and Specification for thenno- 

Faridabad having their office compounded cables with alu- plastic insulated weather - 
at265S Sadar Thana Road, minium conductors of the proof cables, polythene in- 
Delhi-6. following types : sulated, taped, braided and 

compounded . 

(t) Single core, 250/440 volts 
grade ; 

(a) Single core, 650/1 100 
vohs grade j and 
(tit) Twin core, 250/440 volts 
grade. 

8 CM/L-1360 1-12-66 30-11-67 M/s. Ankar Industries, Jes- BHC dusting powders . IS : 561-1962 Specification for 

30-11-1966 ssore Road, P. O. Madh- BHC dusting powders. 

yamgram, District 24 Par- 
ganas. 

9 '''M/L-1361 1-12-66 30-11-67 M/s. Ankar Industries, Jessore DDT dusting powders 18:564-1961 Specification for: 

30-11-66 Road, P. O. Madhyamgram, DDT dusting powders. 

Distt. 24 Parganas. 

10 CM/I. -1 362 1-12-66 30-11-67 M/s. Ankar Industries, Jessore DDT Water dispersible powder IS : 565-1961 Specification for 

30-11-1966 Road, P. O. Midhyamgram concentrates . DDT water dispersible 

Distt. 24 Parganas. powder concentrates. 


Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966/PAUSA 8, 1888 3573 



Vi 

'-J 


I 2 3 

6 

5 

4 

7 

ii CM/L-I363 1-12-66 

30-1 r-1966 

30-11-67 

The Bangalore White Lead 
Syndicate Ltd., G.T. Road, 
Konnagar, Distt. Hooghly 
(West Bengal) haying their 
office at GilLatiders House, 
Netaji Subhas Road, Cal- 
cutta- 1. 

Basic carbonate of lead (white 
lead) for paints). 

IS ; 34-1950 Specification for 
basic carbonate of lead (white 
lead) for paints. 

psio. MD/33 :i6.] 


a 


1 HE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24 , 1966 /PAUSA 3 . 1888 rp A Rf IV 



New Delhi, the 14 th December 1966 

S.O- 3924. — la pursuance of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 8 of the . Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks') Regulations.. iy_,j 
as subsequently amended, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that ninety-one licences, particulars of which are given, in the Schedule 
hereto annexed , have been renewed. 

The Schedule 


s 


SI 

No. 

Licence No. 
and Date 

Period of Validity 

From To 

Name and Address of 
the Licensee 

Article/Process covered by 
the Li ence 

Relevant Indian Standard 

(1) 

(2) 

(3) (4) 

(5) 

(6) 

(71 


i CM/L-21 . . 1-12-66 30-11-67 M/s Devidayal Metal Indus- Wrought aluminium and alumi- IS: 21-1959^ Specification fo r 

3-12-1956 tries, Tulsiram Gupta Mills mum alloy sheets, strips and wrought aluminium and alu~ 

Estate, Darukhana. Bombay- circles. minium alloys for utensils 

ro. (second revision). 


H 

X 

w 

o 


w 

H 

H 

W 

O 

*1 


2 CM/L-36 

4-11-1957 


3 CM/L-37 
4-11-1957 


4 CM/L-3S 
4-11-1957 


5 CM/L-39 
4-11-1957 


16-1 1-66 


16-11-66 


16-1 1-66 


15-11-67 The National Insulated Hard-drawn stranderd aluminium IS: 398-1961 Specification for 
Cable Co. of India Ltd., and steel-cored aluminium hard-drawn stranded alurni- 
Shamnagar (24 Parganas, conductors for overhead power nium and steel-cored alu- 
W. Bengal) having their transmission purposes. minium conductor for over- 

Regd. OfficeatNicco House, head power transmission pur- 

Hare Street, Calcutta-i. poses (re Need k 


15-11-67 The National Insulated Cable Rubber-insulated cables^and (i) IS: 434(Part I) — 1964 Speci- 


Co. of India Ltd., Shamnagar 
(24 Parganas, W. Bengal ) 
having their Regd. Office 
atNiccoHouse.Hare Street, 
Calcutta- 1. 


fixation for rubber 

insulated cables with copper 
conductors (revised:. 


flexible cords of all types and 
sizes specified in IS: 434 
(Part I) — T964 and IS: 434 
(Part III — -1964. 

- (ii) IS: 434 (Part II) — 1964 Specifi- 

cation for rubber insulated 
cables with aluminium con- 
ductors (reidsed). 


15-11-67 The National Insulated Cable 
Co. of India Ltd, Shamnagar 
(24 Parganas, W. Bengal ) 
having their Regd. Office at 
Nicco House, Hare Street, 
Calcutta-i. 


Cotton covered round copper IS: 450-1964 Specification for 
conductors cotton-covered round copper 

conductors (revised). 


16-11-66 15-11-67 M/s. Rashtriya Metal Industries Wrought aluminium and IS:2i-i959 Specification for 

Ltd, Kurla Road, Andheri aluminium alloy utensils wrought aluminium alloys for 

(East) Bombay-41. ' ; utensils (second revision). ' 




6 CM/L— 40 . ' 

4-11-1957 


7 CM/L — 66 
7 - 2-1958 


8 CM/L— 105 

31-10-1958 

9 CM/L — 107 

4-11-1958 

10 CM/L — 109 
4-11-1958 


11 CM/L— 123 
2I-5-I959 


12 CM/L-150 
15-10-1958 


13 CM/L — 243 
23-11-1960 


r6-H-66 I5-II-67 At/ 3 - Rashtriya Metal Industries Wrought aluminium and alumi- 

Ltd, Kurla Road, Andheri nium alloy sheets, strips and 
(East), Bombay-41. cixcles. 

1-12-66 30-11-67 M/s. Woodcrafts (Assam) Tea-chest plywood panels. 

Prop Jayshiee Tea & Indus- 
tries Ltd., P.O. Mariani , 

Distt. Sibsagar. 

1 6-1 1-66 15-11-67 M/s. Sylvan Plywood Mills, Tea-chest plywood papels. 

Kottayam ( Kerala ). 

16-11-66 15-11-67 The Assam Veneer & Saw Mills Tea-chest plywood panels. 

Limited, 9 Clive Row, Cal- 
cutta- 1- 

•16-11-66 15-11-67 M/s. Savlar Paint & Varnish (1) Oil paste for paints, zinc 

Works, Vihar Lake Road, oxide, 

SakiNaka, Ktxrla, Bombay-37. 

(2) Oil paste, for paints, zinc 
oxide, reduced, 

(3) 011 paste for paints to 
Indian Standard, 

(4) Colours. 


IS : 21 — 1959 Specification for 
wrought aluminium and 
aluminium alloys for utensils 
( second revision)* 

IS: 10—1953 Specification for 
ply wood tea-chests (revised). 


1-12-66 30-11-67 M/s. Punhotham Gocoldas Tea-chest Plywood panels. 

Plywood Co., Pappinissert) 

(Kerala State). 

1-11-66 31-10-67 The Packing Materials Corpo- Waterproof packing paper, 
ration, Khed Gaily, Off 
Gokhaie Road (South), Bom- 
bay-28.- 

T-12-66 30-11-67 M/s. Hindustan Tin Works 18-litre square tins. 

Pvt. Ltd., G. T. Road, 

Ghuiabad. 


IS: 10 — 1953 Specification for 
plywood tea-chests ( revised). 

IS: 10-1953 Specification for 
plywood tea- die st s ( revised) 

(LIS; 98 — 1950 Specification 

for oil paste for paints zinc 
oxide. 

(2) IS 99 — 1950 Specification 

for oil paste for paints, zinc 
oxide, reduced. 

(3) IS:92 — 1950 and IS: 93 — 
1950 Specification for oil 
& past, 

(4) for paints to Indian 
Standard colours. 

IS :io — 1953 Specification for 
plywood tea-chests (re wed) 


IS : 1398 — 3960 Specification 

for packing paper, waterproof 
bitumen laminated. 


IS: 916 — 1958 Specification for 
1 8-litre square tins. 


HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 /PAU 9 A 3, 1888 [Fart II- 


1 4 CM/L-302 

25-5-196 1 


15 CM/L-351 
31-10-1961 


16 CM/L-352 
31-10-1961 


1-12-66 30-11-67 


M/t. National Plywood Indus- Tea-chest plywood panels 
tries, 6, Gorapada Sarkar 
Lane, Calcutta-4. 


16-11-66 


16-11-66 


15-11-67 Mis- Bharat Wood Works 
Private Ltd., P.O. Dibrugarh, 
Assam. . 


Tea-chest plywood panels 


IS : 10-1953 Specification for , 
plywood tea-chest (rettsed) ^ 

IS:io-i9S3 Specification for 
plywood tea-chests (revised) 


15-11-67 M/s. Devidayal Cable Industries Type Voltage 

Private Ltd., Gupta Mills, G rade Conductor 

Estate, Darukb ana, Reay Road, PVC insulated cables 

Bombay- 10. (i) Single Core') 250/440 Copper (i) IS 1694 (Part I)— 1964 Specifi- 

(unsheathed) , &650/ aluminium cation for PVC in,iii S r«t 
(11) Single Core f 1100V cables (for voltage ud to 

(PVC sheathed) j »ooV) with 

(revised). 

(ii) IS . 694(Part II) — i964Speci- 
ficatron for PVC insulated 
cabl . f * Cw voltages up to 
1100V) with aluminium con- 
ductors (revised). 


17 CM/L-358 
20-11-1961 


1-12-66 


30-11-67 M/s. Indian Traders Pvt. Ltd., 
Industrial Area, Najafgarh 
Roadj New Delhi -15. 


Type Voltage 

Grade Conductor 
VIR cables for fixed wiring 
(i)TRS (Tough rubber (i) is 


sheathed) 


(ii) Braided 250/440 

and com- &650/1100 

pounded volts 
(in) Weather - 250/440 
proof. 650/1100 

volts 


25 0/440 \ Copper ^S^ti^ 4 Kibbfcffi 

V ° ItS Minium SSSoS-M* - 

1 


f 


(o)!S ^34 (Part II)— 1964 

Specification for rubber-insu- 
lated cables with aluminium 
conductors (revised). 


18 CM/L-359 
20-11-1961 


1-12-66 


30-11-67 M/s. Burma-Shell Oil Storage Dieldrin etnulsifiable concentrates IS- 1054 io<;7 ■ 

& Distributing Co. of India Ltd., I?,. 1 ?*' Specification 

Bunnah-Shell House, Ballard ™ t “*“ dnn emuisifiable con- 

Estate, Bombay-i. centrales. 


fcc. S(il)] THE GAZETTE OF INbtA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 /PAUSA 3 , 1888 



(I) <*) (3) (4) 


(5) 


( 6 ) 


(7) 


19 - CM/L-423 
19-6-1962 


20. CM/L-463 
11-10-1962 


21. CM/L-464 
24-10-1962 


22. C A 4 /L— 46 7 
30-10-1962 


23. CM/L-492 
26-12-1962 


24. CM/L-564 

19-7-1963 


25. CM/L-589 

14-10-1963 


z-12-66 


1-12-66 


14-11-56 


14-11-66 


1-12-66 


x-12-66 


16-11-66 


30-11-57 The Vikon Electrical Works Semi-enclosed electric fuses, 
(Private) Limited, G.T. Road, 15 amp 250 volts, with H.C. 

Goraya CPanjab). andMEMtvpefusebasesand 

carriers. 

30-11-67 M/s. Basant Pran & Company, Metal clad switches, 15 amp, 250 
9, Old Court House Street, Cal- volts, with HC type fuse base 
cutta. andcarrier. 

15-11-67 M/s. Geo Industries and Insec- BHC Water dispersible powder 
tiddes (India) Pvt . Ltd . , concentrates . 

Field No. 82/83(3) Sathankadu, 

Kaladipet, Madras-19. 

15-11-67 M/s. Shalimar Tar Products Bitumen felts for Waterproofing 

(1935) Limited, 26, Lake Road, and damp -proofing type 3 

Bhandup, Bombay- 78 having grade 1 . 
their office at 6 Lyons Range, 

Calcutta. 

30-11-67 M/s. Alma Electrical Corpn . Pvt. Metal clad switches, 15 amp 250 
Ltd., Garia Mathurapur Road volts, with MEM type fuse 
Gorala, 24 Pargams having base and carrier, 
their office at 2 India Exchange 
Place (2nd Floor), Calcutta-i . 

30-11-67 M/s. Assodaied Tube Wells Flushing cisterns, high level. 
(India) Private Ltd., Modina- 
gar having their office at 12, 

Scmdia House, New Delhi. 


IS: 2086-1963 Specification for 
carriers and bases in reWirable 
type electric fuses up to 650 volts 
(revised). , 

IS : 1567-1960 Specification for ■ 
metal clad switches (current 
rating not exceeding 100 
amperes), 

IS: 562-1962 Specification for 
BHC water dispersible powd er* 
concentrates (second revision). 

IS: 1322-1959 Specification for I 
b itume n felts for waterproofiing ' 
and damp-proofing. [ 


18:1567-1960 Specification for 
metal clad switches (current 
rating not exceeding 100 
amperes. 

IS: 774-1964 Specification for 
flushing cisterns for water 
closets and urinals (valveless 
si phonic type) ( second revisim). 


I5-H-67 


M/s. P.V.C. Wires & Cables Pvt. 
Ltd., 1, Ishan Ghosh Road, 
Calcutta-8. 


Type Voltage Conductor (f) IS (694 (Part- 1 ) 1964 Specifi- 
Grade cation for PV C insulated cables 

PVC Insulated Cables. (for voltage up to 1100 V) with 

(i) Single 250/660& Copper or copper conductors (revised). 
core(un- 450/1 100 aluminium 
sheathed) volts 

(«) Flat 250/440 Copper (it) IS: 694 (Part II) — 1964 
twin with volts. only. Specification for PVC insulated 

orwithoux cables (for voltage upto xrooV) 

earth con- with aluminium conductors 

timiity con- (revised). 

ductor 
(PVC shea- 
thed). 



THr GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24, I9S6/PAUSA* 3, 1888 



26. CM/L-59I 
21-10-1943 


27. CM/L-592 
21-10-1963 


28. CM/L-593 
28-10-1963 


61-11-56 15-11-67 M/s.ShalimarTar Products Bitumen (plastic) for Water-proof- 

(1935) Limited, 26 Lake Road, ing purposes. ; 

Bhandup, Bombay-71 having 
their office at 16 Bank Street, 

Bombay- 1. 

16-11-65 15-11-67 Mi's. Shalimir Tar Products Preformed fillers for expansion 

(1935) Limited, 25 Lake Road, joint in concrete non-extruding 
Bhandup, Bombay-71 having and resilient type (bitumen im- 
their office at 15 Bank Street, pregnated fibre). 

Bombay- r. 

16-11-66 15-11-67 The Metal Box Co of India Ltd., i8-3itre square tins. 

Jeppo, Mangalore having their 
office at Barlow House, 59 C, 

Chowringhee Road, Calcutta- 
20. 


29. CM./L-595 
30-10-1963 


1-12-66 30-11-67 M.'s. Pesticides India, Udnsagar) Endrin emu Billable concentrates 

Road, Udaipur. 


30 . CM/L- 59 S 
7-H-I963 


31, CM/L-7S0 

10-9-1964 


x-12-66 30-11-67 M/s. Skytone Electricals (India), (1) Single core (unsheathed) PVC 

43-liidu.s trial Area, Faridabad insulated cables, 250/440 volts 
having their Head Office at and65o/-noo volts grades 
265 5-Sada r Thana Road, With coppe r or aluminium con- 

Delhi-6. ductors, 

(2) Single core (sheathed) PVC 
insulated cables, 250/440 volts 
grades with copper or alumini- 
um conductors; 

(3) Single oore (sheathed) PVC 
insulatedcables, 650/noovolts 
gradewith copper conductors, 
only; and 

(4) Twin-twisted (unsheathed) 
flexible cords, 250/440 volts 
grade with copper conductors 
only. 

15-11-44 15-11-67 M/s. S.R. Sharma& Sons, 140, Brass ball valves (horizontal 

RaiBahadur R.N.GuhaRoad, (plungertype) 15 mm size. 

Dum Dum, Cakntt*-38 having 
their office at 8 5 Netaj i Subhas 
Road, Calcutta- 1. 


IS: 1580-1960 Specification for 
bitumen (plastic) for water- 
proofing purposes . 


IS: 1S38-1961 Specification for 
preformed fillers for expansion 
joint in concrete non-extruding 
and resilient type (bitumen 
impregnated). 

IS: 916-195S Specification for 
18-litre square tins. 


IS: 1310-1958 Specification for 
e odiin emulsifiab le co tice ntr a tes . 

(0 IS: 694 (Par t-I) 1964 Specifi- 
cation for PVC insulatedcables 
(for voltage tip to nco V) with 
copper conductor (revised). 

(ti) IS : 694 (Part II) — 1964 Spe- 
cification for PVC insulated 
cables (forvoltage uptoiiooV) 
with aluminium conductors 
(revised). 


IS: 1703-1962 Specification for 
ball valves (horizontal type) 
including floats for water supply 
purposes. 


Sue. 8(H)] THE GAZETTE OI INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966/P AUSA 8, 1886 



32. CM/L-802 i6-ii-66 15-11-67 M/s. K.L.Malhotra Brothers, 

23-10-1964 WX-83,BastiNau,Jullundur: 

City. 


Badminton racket frames, super IS: 831-1957 Specification for 


and special grades of the follow- 
ing brands: 

(1) Viking Malbro, fitted with 
steel shift 

<«) Viking Malbro, fitted with 
Woodenshaft(Chaiapion 
Model) 

<«0 Tlte Rock, fitted with steel 
shaft. 


badminton racket frames. 


33. CM/I — 809 

26-10-1964 

34. CM/L — 810 

26-10-1964 

35. GMJL — 815 

30-10-1964 

36. CM/L— 816 

30-10-1964 

37. CM/L — 823 

2-11-1964 


38. CM/L — 824 
2-11-1964 


39. CM/L — 827 
2-1 1- 1^ 


1-11-66 31*10-67 M/s Aeron Steel Rolling Mills, 

Jullundur City. 

1-11-66 31-10-67 M/s Aeron Steel Rolling Mills, 

Jullundur City. 


16-11-66 15-11-67 


M/s Shaniquga Sago Factory, 
Shevapet, Salem-2. 


16-11-66 15-11-67 M/s Poni Sago Factory, Omalur 

Road, Salem-5. 

16-11-66 15-11-67 M/s Swadeshi Industries Ltd., 

33, Neta/i Subhash Road, Cal- 
cutta. 


16-11-66 15-11-67 M/s Swadeshi Industries Ltd., 

33, Netaji Subhash Road, Cal- 
cutta. 


Structural steel (standard quality) IS 1226—1962 Specification for 

structural steel (standard qua- 
lity) {third revision). 

Structural steel (ordinary quality) IS:t977— 1962 Specification for 

structural steel (ordinary 

quality). 

Sago (Saboodana) IS 1899 — 1956 Specification for 

sago (saboodana). 

Sago (saboodana) IS: 899 — 1956 Specification for 

sago (saboodana). 


Structural steel (standard quality) IS:2a6 — 1962 Specification for 
for sections up to 25 nyn dia structural steel (standard qu 
or square and other sections of lity) {third revision). 
equivalent area. 


Structural steel (ordinary qua- 
lity) for sections np to 25 mm 
dia or square and other sections 
of equivalent area. 


IS:i977 — 1962 Specification for 
structural steel (ordinary 
quality). 


16-11-66 15-11-67 M/s Jindal Steel Works, Maler- Structural steel (standard qua- 
kotla. lity). 


IS:226 — 1962 Specification for 
structural steel (standard qua 
lity) ( third revision). [ 


3 j 80 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1960/PAUSA 8 , 1888 [Pam II— 





40 CM/L — 828 

2-11-1964 

41 CM/L — 831 

2-110964 


42 CM/L — 832 
2-11-1964 


43. CM''L— 834 
9-11-1974 


44 CM/L — 839 
23-11-1964 


45 CM/L— 840 
23-11-1964 


16 - 11-66 


16-11-66 


16-11-66 


1-12-66 


r-r2-66 


1-12-56 


15-11-67 


15-11-67 


15-11-67 


30-U-67 


31 - 5-67 


30-11-67 


M/s Jindal Steel Works, Makr- 
kotla.. 

M/s Aggarwal Hardware Works 
Private Ltd., 167, Chittaranjan 
Avenue, Calcutta. 


M/s Aggarwal Hardware W'orks 
Private Ltd., 167, Chittaran- 
jan Avenue, Cakmtta. 


M/s Special Steels Limited, 
Dattapara Road, Borivli (East!, 
Bombay-66. 


M/s Industrial Research Corpo- 
ration, 2/70 East Mada Street, 
Thiruvattmiyur, Madras-41. 


Structural steel (ordinary qua- 
lity). 

Structural steel (standard quali- 
ty), tested steel rounds up to 
1' (25 mm) dia and flats up 
to i*xi' to 2'xJ' (25 mmx6 
mm to 50 minx 12 -7 mm) and 
sections of equivalent area. 

Structural steel (ordinary qua- 
lity), tested steel rounds up to 
1* (25 nu|i dia and flats up to 
i'xJ' to 2*xj' (25 mmv6 mm 
to 50 mm to 12' 7mm) and 
sections of equivalent area. 

Steel Wire for the core of steel- 
cored aluminium conductors 1 
for overhead power transmi- J 
ssion purposes. 


Dye-based fountain pen ink 
(blue, green, red, violet). 


IS:i977 — 1962 Specification for 
structural steel (ordinary 
quality). 

IS : 226 — 1962 Specification for 
structural steel (standard qua- 
lity) {third revision ) . 


IS:i977 — 1962 Specification for 
structural steel (ordinary 
quality). 


IS :39s — 1961 Specification for 
Hard-drawn stranded alumi- 
mium and. steel-cored alumi- 
nium conductors for overhead 
power transmission purposes 
{revised). 

IS:i22t — 1957 Specification for 
dye- based fountain pen ink 
(blue, green, violet, black and 

red). 


M/s Shamsher Sterling Cable 
Corporation Ltd., Kirol-Ghat- 
kopar, Bombay-77 having their 
Registered Office at Vaswani 
Mansions, Dinsha Vacha Rd., 
Bombay-i. 


Type Volt3ge Conduc- (i) IS 1694 (Part L — 1964 Spe- 

Grade tor cification for PVC insulated 
(a) PVC -insulated cables cables (for voltage up to 

(i) Single core 250/440 Copper 1100 V) with copper conduc- 

(unsheathed) & or alu- tors (revised). 

650/1100 minium 
volts. 

(ii) Single core 25o/44oAluminium (iPi IS:694(Part ID-T964 Spe- 

(PVC srteath- & only. cification for PVC insulated 
edl 650/1 100 V cables (for voltages up to 

(b) PVC flexible cords 1100 VI with aluminium con- 

(iii) Twin twis- 250/440 Copper ductors (revised). 

ted (unshea- volts only 

thed) 


(iv) PVC insu- 250/440] 
Iated andj volts 
sheathed. 


Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966/PA USA 3, 1988 3581 



U) (2) (3) (4) (5) 


( 6 ) 


(7) 


46 GM'L-846 

28-11-1964 


47 CM/L-847 
28-11-1964 


1-12-66 30-11-67 M's Kanknarrah Co. Ltd., 1 Clark Jute hessian 

Ghat Road, Bhatpara, 24 Par- 
ganas having their Office at 
4 Clive Row, Calcutta-!. 

1-12-66 30-11-67 M/s Kanknarrah Co. Ltd., 1 Jute sackings 

Clark Ghat Road, Bhatpara, 

24 Parganas having their 
Office at 4 Clive Row, Cal- 
cutta-i. 


4S CMJL-S50 
28-11-1964 


49 CM/L-851 
28-11-1964 


1-12-66 30-11-67 M's Howrah Mills Co. Ltd., Jute hessian 

493/C/A, G. T. Road, South 
Howrah having their Office 
at 4 Clive Row, Calcutta- 1. 

1-12-66 30-11-67 M/s Howrah Mills Co. Ltd., Jute sackings 

493/C/A, G.T. Road, South 
Howrah hating their Office 
at 4 Clive Row, Calcutta-i. 


50 CM /L- 8-5 8 
28-11-1964 


51 CM/L-859 
28-11-1964 


1-12-66 .30-11-67 M/s Auckl and Jute Co. Ltd., Jute hessian 

Jagatdal, 24 Parganas having 
their Office at Chartered Bank 
Building, Calcutta-i. 

1-12-66 30-11-67 M 's Auckland Jute Co. Ltd., Jute sackings 

Jagatdal, 24 Parganas having 
their Office at Chartered Bank 
Building, Calcutta-i. 


IS :2S 18-1964 Specification for 
Indian hessian. 


IS :i94 3-1964 Specification for 
A-twiii jute bags (revised" 1 ! . 
18:2566-1965 Specification for 
B-twill jute bags {revised], 
18:2874-1964 Specification for 
heavy cee jute bags. 

IS :2875-i964 Specification foi 
jute corn sacks. 

18:2818-1964 Specification for 
Indian hessian. 


18:1943-1964 Specificatio'11 for 
A-twill jute bags (revised. 

18:2566-1965 Specification for 
B-t will jute bags (revised). 

18:2874-1964 Specification for 
heavy- cee jute bags. 

18:2875-1964 Specification for 
jute com sacks. 

18:2818-1964 Specification for 
Indian hessian. 


IS :i943-J964 Specification for 
A-twill jute bags (revised. 
18:2566-1965 Specification for 
B-twill jute bags {revised), 
18:2874-1964 Specification [for i 
heavy cee jute bags. 
18:2875-1964 Specification for ll 
jute corn sacks. il 


3582 1 GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966/PAUSA 3, 1888 [Pwirr II- 



52 CM'L-S65 i-12-66 30-11-67 The Northbrook Jute Co. Ltd., Jute hissian 

28-11-1964 Champdany, Distt. Hooghly, 

having their Office at Char- 
tered Bank Building. Cal- 
cutta-i. 

53 CM'L-866 i-12-66 30-11-67 The Northbrook Jute Co. Ltd., Jute sackings 

28-11-1964 Champdany, Distt. Hooghly, 

having their Office at Char- 
tered Bank Building, Cal- 
cutta-i. 


54 CM/L-883 
28-11-1964 


55 CMJL-S84 
28-11-1964 


t-12-66 30-11-67 M/s Hastings Mills Ltd,, Rishra, Jute hessian 

Hooghly, having their Office at 
14 Netaji Subhas Road, Cal- 
cutta- 1. S 

"1-12-66 30-11-67 M's Hastings Mills Ltd., Rishra, Jute sackings 

Hooghly, hating their Office 
at 14 Netaji Subhas Road Cal- 
cutta- 1. 


56 CM/L-8S5 

28-11-1964 


57 CM/L-SS6 

2S-11-1964 


1-12-66 30-H-67 M/s Fort William Co. Ltd., Jute hessian 

47/4S Rai Narain Roychow- 
dhury Ghat Road, Shibpore, 

Howrah having, their Office 
at 14 Netaji Subhas Road, 

Calcutta-i. 

r-12-66 30-11-67 M/s Fort William Co. Ltd., Jute sackings 

47/48 Raj Narain Roychow- 
dhury Ghat Road, Shibpore, 

Howrah, having their Office 
at 14 Netaji Subhas Road, 

Calcutta- 1. 


IS *2818-1964 Specification for 
Indian hessian. 


IS: 1 943- 1964 Specification for 
A-twill jute bags (revised). 

IS 12566-1 965 Specification for 
B -ttvi.il jute bags (rei'iwd). 

18:2874-1964 Specification for 
heavy cee jute bags. 

18:2875-1964 Specification for 
jute corn sacks. 

18:2818-1964 Specification for 
Indian hessian. 


IS 11943-1964 Specification tor 
A-twilI jute bags (revised) * 
IS:2566-i965 Specification for 
B-tWil! iute bags, (revised'}, 
15:2874-1964 Specification fo- 
heavy cee jute bags. 
18:2875-1964 Specification for 
jute corn sacks. 

18:2818-1964 Specification for 
Indian hessian. 


18:1943-1964 Specification for 
A-twill jute bags (revised), 
18:2566-1965 Specification for ' 
B- twill jute bags (revised). 

I S : 28 74- 1964 Specification for 
heavy cee jute bags. 
18:2875-1964 Specification for 
jute corn sacks. 


:. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDL\ : DECEMBER 24, 1966/PAUSA 8 , 1888 , 3583 



( 6 ) 


(I) (2) (3) (4) (5) 


58 CMJL-889 
28-11-1964 


59 CM''L-89° 
28-11-1964 


1-12-66 30-11-67 M/s Megna Mils Go. Ltd., PXh Jute hessian 

Jagatdal, 24 Parganas having 
their Office at 16 Strand 
Road, Calcutta- 1. 

1-12-66 30-11-67 M f s Megna Mills Co. Ltd., P.O. Jute sackings 

Jagatdal, 24 Parganas having 
their Office at r6 Strand Road, 

Calcutta- 1. 


60 GM/L-891 
28-11-1964 


f,l GM/L-892 
2S-11-1964 


1-12-66 30-11-67 M/s Alliance Jute Mills Co. Jute hessian 

Ltd., P.O. Jagatdal, 24 Par- 
gattas having their Office at 
3 Netaji Suhltns Road, Cal- 
cutta-!. 

t-12-66 30-11-67 M's Alliance Jute Mills Go. Lid,, Jute sackings 

P. O. Jagatdal, 24 Parganas 
having their Office at 3 Netaji 
' S ub has Road, Calcutta-i. 


62 GMJL-903 
28-11-1964 


1-12-66 30-11-67 M/s Gagalbhai Jute Mills (P) Jute hessian 

Ltd., Sijberia, P.O. UBieria, 

Howrah having their Office 
at rS Netaji Subhas Road, 

Calcutta-i. 


CO 


TS -.2818-1964 Specification for 
Indian hessian. 


18:1943-1964 Specification for 
A-twill jute bags (muirt/i. 

18:2566-1965 Specification for 
B-twill jute bags (revised). 

18:2874-1964 Specification for 
heavy cee jute bags, 

IS.-2875-J964 Specification for 
jute corn sacks. 

18:2818-1964 Specification for 
Indian hessian. 


IS: 19431-964 Specification foi 

A-twill jute bags (revised'). . 

IS -.2566-1965 Specification for 
B-twill jute bags (revised). 

18:2874-1964 Specification. for 
heavy cee jute bags. 

15:2875-1964 Specification for 
jute com sacks. 

18:2818-1964 Specification for 
Indian hessian. 


§ 

s 

w 

H 

V 


nj 

> 


oc 


63 CM/L-904 
28-JI-I964 


1-12-66 30-11-67 M-'s Gagalbhai Jute Mills (PI Ltd, Jute sackings 
Sijberia, P.O. Liberia .Howrah 
having their Office at 18 Netaji 
•Subhas Road, Calcutta-7. 


IS : 1943-1964 Specification jj 
for A-twill jute bags Revised). I 
IS : 2566-1965 Specification 
for B-twill jute bags (revised). :j 


IS : 2874-1964 Specification 
for heavy cee jute bags. 

IS : 2875-1964 Specification 
for jute com sacks. 


a 

1 



64 CAi'L-905 

28-11-1964 


65 CM'L-9o6 
28-11-1964 


1-12-66 30-11-67 M/s Caledonian Jute Mills Co. Jiite hessian 

Ltd., 18 Mehta Road, Bade- 
kafinagar, Bodge Budge, 24 
Parganas having their Office 
at 9 Brabourne Road, 

Cilcutta-i. 

1-12-66 30-11-67, M's Ciledoniau jute Mills Co. Jutesackings 

Ltd. 18 Mehta Road, Bide- 
kalinagar. Budge Budge, 

24 Parganas having their 
Office at 9 Brabotlme Road, 

Calcutta-I. 


66 CM/L- 9 I 3 
28-11-1964 


6- CM/L-914 
28-11-1964 


1 - 12-66 30-11-67 M's Bally Jute Co. Ltd, 5 Jute hessian 

Scott Kerr Road, Baliy, 

Howrah having their Office at 
15 India Exchange Piace, 

C alcutfa-i . 

1-12-66 30-11-67 M''s. Bally JuteCo. Ltd., 5 Scott Jutesackings 

Kerr Road, Bally, Howrah 
having their Office at is India 
Exchange Place, Calcutta-i. 


CM'L-qts 
28-1 i-i9 i% 1 


69 CM'I!-qi 6 
2S-ri-i9 < 4 


1-12-66 30-11-57 M/s Birla Juic Mfg. Co. I.ld., Jute hessian 

Birfapur, 24 Parganas having 
their Office at 15 India Ex- 
change Place, Calcutta- 1. 

1-12-66 3011-67 M/s Birla Jure Mfg. Co. Ltd., Jutesackings 

Birlapur, 24 Parganas having 
their Office at 15 India Ex- 
change Place, Calcutta-i. 


IS : 2818-1964 gpecificatioh | 
for Indian hessian. 


IS : 1943-1964 Spec'ficatio 11 ; 

for A-tWill juic hags (re vised ). ; 

IS : 2566-1965 Specification 
for II -twill jute bags (revised). 

IS ! 2874-1964 Specification 

for heavy cev jule bags. 

IS : 2875-1964 Specification , 

for iute corn bags. 

IS : 2818-1964 Specification I 

for Indian hessian, ; 


IS : 1943-1964 Specification 

for A-tWil! jute bags 1 retdsed'. 

IS : 2566- 1965 Specification 
for B-tWill iute bags (revised). ■] 
LS ; 2874-1964 Specification 

fui he ivy cee iute bag-,. 

IS : 2875-1964 Specification 

for jute com sacks. 

IS : 2818-1964 Specification 

for Indian hessian. 


IS : 1943-1964 Specification 

for ,\-l will jute bags trerised). 

IS : 2566-1965 Specification 

for B- twill jute bags (revised '. 

IS : 2874-1964 Specification 

for heavy cee jute bugs . 

IS : 2875-1964 Specification 

for jute corn sacks. 


:. 3 (it)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24 , 1966 /PAUSA 3 , 1888 3585 



(3) 


(4) 


(5) 


( 6 ) 


(7) 


CO 


GO 


70 CM/L-917 
’8-11-1964 


7i cm'l-9is 
2R-11-1964 


1-12-66 30-11-67 M/s Soorah Jute Mills Co, Ltd, Jute hesjian 
102 Narkeldanga Maiu Road 
Calcutta- 1 1 having their 
Office at 15 India Exchange 
Place., Calcutta- 1. 

1-12-66 30-11-67 M/s Soorah Jute Mills Co. Ltd, Jute sackings 

102 Narkeldanga Main 

Road, Calcutta-ii having 
their Office at 15 India Ex- 
change Place, C,ilcutta-r, 


73 CM/L-919 
28-11-1964 


3 CM/L-920 
2S-H-1964 


M-12-66 30-11-6’ TheNaihali Jute Mills Co. Llti., Jute hessian 

t.O. Hazinagar, 24 Parganas 
having their Office at33 Netaji 
Subhas Road, Calcutta-i, 

1-12-66 30-11-67 The Naihati Jute Mills Co. Ltd., Jute sackiugs 

P.O. Hazinagar, 24Praganas 
having their Office at 33 
Netaji Subhas Road, 

Calcutta- 1. 


74 CM;'L-927 1-12-66 30-11-67 M/s Champdany Jute Co. Ltd,, Jute hessian 

(Well irtgo ton Jute), G.T. 

Road, Rishra, Hooghly having 
their Office at 2 Netaji Subhas 
Road , Calcutta- 1 . 

75 CM/L-92S r-t2-6S *10-11-67 .M/s Champdany Jute Co. Ltd., Jute sackings 

28-11-1964 (Willingoton Jute), G.T. Road, 

Rishra, Hooghly having 
their Office at 2 Netaii Subhas 
Road, Calcutta-i. 


IS : 2818 — 1964 Specification 

for Indian hessian 


IS : t943— 1964 Specificatio 11 
for A- twill jute bags (revised) 
IS : 2566—1965 Specification 

for B-tWill jute bags (revised) 
IS : 28 74 — .1964 Specification 
for heavy cee jute bags 
IS : 2S75 — 1964 Specficiatinn 

for jute corn sacks 

IS - : 2818 — -1964. Specification 
for Indian hessian 


IS : 1943 — 1964 Specification 
for A- twill jute bags ( revised ) 
IS : 2566 — 1965 Specification 
B -twill jute bags (t£ vised) 

IS : 2874 — 1964 Specification 
for heavy cee jute bags 
IS : 2875 — .1965 Specification 
for jute corn sacks 

IS ; 2818 — 1964 Specification 
for Indian hessian 


IS : 1943 — 1964 Specification 

for A- twill jute bags (revised) 
IS : 2566 — 1965 Specification 
for B -twill jute bags (revised) 

IS : 2874 — 1964 Specification 

for heavy cee jtrte bags 
TS : 2875 — 1954 (Specification 
for jtjte corn_sacks 


35 86 THE gazette of india: December 24, 1966/fausa. s. ms [part ii- 



7 6 CM'L-945 

28-11-1964 


77 CM'L-946 
2R-11-1964 


1-12-66 30-11-67 M.'s Ganges Mfg. Go. Ltd., Bans- Jute hessian 

beria, Hooghly having their 
Office at II Rabindra Sarani, 

Calcutta-i. 

1-12-66 30-11-67 M's Ganges Mfg. Co. Ltd., Bans- Jute sackings . 

beria, Hooghly having their 
Office at 11 Rabindra Sarani. 

Calcutta-I. 


78 CM/L-957 
28-11-1964 


79 CM/L-95S 

28-11-1964 


1-12-66 30-11-67 M/s Prabartak Jute Milts Lid., Jute hessian 

Kamarhatti, B.T. Road, 24. 

Parganas having their Office 
at 5 Synagogue Street, 

Calcutta- 1. 

r-12-66 30-11-67 M/s Prabartak Jute Mills Ltd., Jute sackings 

Kamarhatti, B. T. Road, 24 
Parganas having their Office 
at 5 Synagogue Street, 

. Calcutta-i. 


80 CM/L-959 

28-11-1964 


St CMjL-960 
28-11-1064 


i-t2-66 30-11-67 M/s Reliance Jute Mills Co. Ltd., Jute hessian 

Rly. Station Kankinarrah. 

P. O. Bhatpara, 24 Parganas 
having their Office at 9 
Brabourne Road, Calcutta-r. 

1-12-66 30-11-67 M/s Reliance Jute Mills Co. Ltd., Jute sackings 

Rly. Station Kankinarrah, 

P . O. Bhatpara, 24 Parganas 
having their Office at Brabourrte 
Road, Calcutta- 1, 


IS : 2S18 — 1964 Specification 

for Indian hessian 


IS : 1943—1964 Specification 

for A twill jute bags (revised) 
IS : 2566 — 1965 Specification 
for B- 1 will jute bags (revised) 
IS : 2874 — 1964 Specification 
for 'heavy cee jute bags 
IS : 2875^ — 1964 Specification 

for jute corn sacks 

IS : 2818 — 1964 Specification 
for Indian hessian 


IS : 1943 — 1964 Specification 
for A-twill jute bags ijevised) 
IS : 2566 — 1965 Specification 
for B- twill jute bags (revised) 
TS : 2874 — 1964 Specification 
for heavy cee jute bags 
IS : 2875 — 1964 Specification 
for jute corn sacks 

IS : 2818 — 1964 Specification 

for Indian hessian 


IS : 1943 — 1964 Specification 
for A-twill jute bags (revised) 
IS: 2566 — 1965 Specification 
for B-lwill jute bags ( revised) j 
IS : 2874 — 1964 Specification 
for heavy cee jute bags 
IS : 2875 — J 9^4 Specification 
for jute corn sacks 



.1 


Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OR INDIA: DECEMBER St, 1%6/PACSA 3, 1888 1 3587 



- CO (2) 0) (4) (5) 


( 6 ) 


(7) 


82 CM/L-961 
28-11-1964 


83 CM/L-962 
28-11-1964 


84 CM/L-969 
28-11-1964 


85 CM/L-970 
28-11-1964 


86 CM/L-1126 
12-8-1965 


87 CM/L-1157 
28-101965 


1-12-66 30-11-67 M/s Kanoria Co. Ltd., Chengail Jute hessian 

Rly. Station P.O. Chakasi, 

Howrah having rheirOffice at 
18 Mullick Street, Calcutta-7 

1-12-66 30-11-67 M/s Kanoria Co. Ltd., Chengail Jute sackings 

Rly. Station, P. O. Chakasi, 

Howrah having their Office at 
18 Mullik Street, Calcutta-7. 


1-12-66 30-11-67 M/s Bhutoria Bros (P) Ltd., 130 Jutehessian 

Dharamtolla Road, Saikia, 

Howrah having their Office 
at 56 Netaji Subhas Road, 

Calcutta-i. 

1-12-66 30-11-67 M/s BhutoriaBros (P)Ltd., 130 Jute sackings 

Dharamtolla Road, Saikia, 

Howrah having their Office 
at 56 Netaji Subhas Road, 

Calcutta- 1. 


IS 2818 — 1964 Specification 

for Indian hessian 


IS : 1943 — 1964 Specification 
for A-twill jute bags (revised) 
IS : 2566 — 1965 Specification 
for B -tw ii 1 j ut e ba gs (revised) 
IS : 2874 — 1964 Specification 
for heavy cee jute bags 
IS : 2875 — 1964 Specification 
for jute corn sacks 
IS : 2818—1964 Specification 
for Indian hessian 


IS : 1943 — 1964 Specification 
for A-twill jtue bags (revised) 
IS : 2566 — 1965 Specification 
for B-twill jute bags ( revised ) 
IS : 2874-1964 Specification 

for heavy cee jute bags 
IS : 2875 — 1964 Specification 
for jute corn sacks 


16-11-66 15-11-67 The Fort William Co. Ltd., (Steel ©Steel wire ropes for general IS : 2256—1963 Specification 

Wire & Rope Division) 6/A, engineering purposes for steel wire ropes for general 

G. T. Road, Konnagar, Dt. (ii) Round strand galvanized engineering purposes 
Rooghly, West Bengal having steel wire ropes for shipping 

their Regd Office at i4,Netaji purposes IS : 2581 — 1963 Specification 

Subhas Road, Calcutta-i. for round strand galvanized 

steel wire ropes for shipping 
purposes 

1-11-66 31-1067 M/s Hindustan Lever Ltd., Grand Poultry feeds (chick mash, gro- IS : 1374—1964 Specification 

Trunk Road, Ghaziabad wer mash and layer mash) for poultry feeds (revised) 

(W.P.) having their Office at 
Express Building, Bahadur Shah 
Zafar Maig, New Delhi. 


3388 IHF. GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, ,1966/PAUSA 3 , 1888 



88 CAi/L-n6o 
29-10-1945 


89 CM/L-1161 
2-11-1965 


90 CM/L-1163 
4-11-1965 


91 CM/L-1167 
23-11-1965 


! 6- 1 1-66 15-11-67 At/s Bharat Pulverising Mills Atalathion dusting powders, IS : 2568 — 1963 Specification 

Private Ltd., Hexamar House, fo r malathion dusting powders 

Sayani Road, Bombay-28. 

n 

16-11-66 15-11-67 M/s Madhya Pradesh Iron & Structural steel (standard quality) IS : 226—1962 Specificatio , 

Steel Works Private Ltd. . for structural steel (standax 

Nandini Road, Bhilai-l(ALP-) quality') (third revision) 

16-11-66 15-11-67 The Leeds Meter Alfg. Company Water meters (domestic type) IS : 779 — 1965 Specification 

15 mm size ' for water meters (domestic 

type) (second revision) 

Atathuradas Mills Compound, Ltd., 

Delisle Road, Lower Parol, 

Bombay-13 having theiroffice 
at Gateway Building, Apollo 
Bunder, Bombay-i . 

1-12-66 30-11-67 The Indian Iron & SteelCo. Ltd., Aiild steel and medium steel IS : 432—1960 Specification for 

Burnpur Works, P.O. Burnpur, tensile steel bars and hard- mild steel and medium tensile 

Distt. Burdwan, West Bengal, drawn steel wire for concrete steelbars and hard-drawn steel 

having tbeir Office at 12 reinforcement wire for concrete reinforce- 

Aiission Row 1 , Calcutta- 1, ment (revised) 


S. K. SEN, 

Deputy Director General, 





359 ° 


iHE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24, 1966/PAUSA 3, 1888 


[Part II— 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT 

New Delhi, the 15 th December I960 

S.O. 3925. — In pursuance of the provisions of Rule 45 of the Fundamental Rules, 
the President hereby makes the following rules further to amend the Allotment of 
Government Residences (General Pool in Delhi) Rules, 190 3, contained in Part 
VIII-Division XXVI-B of the Supplementary Rules issued with the Government of 
India Finance Department letter No. 104-CSR, dated the 4th February, 1922, 
namely: — 

1. These rules may be called the Allotment of Government Residences (General 
Pool in Delhi) Fifth Amendment Rules, 19GG, 

2. In the Allotment of Government Residences (General Pool in Delhi) Rules, 
1963 (contained in part VIII-Division XXVI-B of the Supplementary Rules). 

In item (i) of the table under S.R. 317-B-11(2), the words ‘Resignation, dis- 
missal, removal or termination of service’ shall be substituted by the 
words “Resignation, dismissal or removal from service, termination of 
service or unauthorised absence without pennisslon,” 

[No. F.3/5/66 -Acc.I.] 
K. C. JOSHI, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR, EMPLOYMENT AND REHABILITATION 
(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 13 th December 1960 

S-O. 8926. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Industry/West Ena Colliery of East Industry Colliery Company 
(Private) Ltd., P.0, Dhansar (Dhanbad) and their workmen, which was received 
by the Central Government on the 0th December, 1906. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT 

DHANBAD 

In the matter of an industrial dispute under Section 10(1) (d) of The Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947. 

Reference No. 30 of 1964 

Employers in relation to the Industry/West Ena Colliery of East Industry 
Colliery Company (P) Ltd. 

Vs. 

Their Workmen 


Present: 

Shri Raj Kishore Prasad. — Presiding Officer, 

For the Employers , — Shri K. V. Ayyar, Group Welfare Officer of the Com- 
pany. 

For the Workmen ,— Shri Shankar Bose, along with the concerned workman 
in person. 

State: Bihar. Industry: Coal. 


Camp: Patna, dated the 10th October, 1966, 

AWARD 

By its Order No. 2/8/64-LRII dated 26th March, 1904, the Government of 
India, Ministry of Labour and Employment, referred under Section 10(1) (d) of 
The Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, to this Tribunal for adjudication, an industrial 
dispute existing between the employers in relation to the Industry/West Ena 
Colliery of East Industry Colliery C. fP) Ltd., P.O. Dhansar, (Dhanbad)' and (heir 



^c. 11(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24. 19U6/PADSA 3, 1888 


workmen in respect of the matters specified in the schedule annexed to the said 
order reference which is reproduced below: 

Schedule 

‘‘Whether the management of Industiy/West. Ena Colliery (East Industry 
Colliery Company (Private) Limited) was justified jn terminating 
the services of Dr. M. Hazra, Medical Officer of the colliery by their 
letter dated 11th November, 1963? If not. to what relief is the work- 
man entitled?" 

2. On 20th May, 1964, the Employers filed their written statement in which 
several objections were taken but it may be mentioned that the objection taken 
regarding individual dispute was not pressed at the hearing. The case of the 
management was that Budhan Mandril, a miner, who was absenting from a long 
time appeared in the colliery on 7th AugusL, 1963 and Dr, M. Hazra, the concern- 
ed workman, made a false recommendation that the said Budhan Mandat was 
sick and under his treatment from 5th June, 1963 to 6th August, 1963 and was 
fit for duty from 7th August, 1963; that when this fact was made known to the 
Manager he sent for the sick register for verification but on getting the scent the 
Medical Officer Dr, M. Hazra intercepted the Register on the way and got false 
entries of sickness entered in the Register by putting pressure on the trainee 
Compounder; that, therefore, a chargesheet was issued to Dr. M. Hazra on 9th 
August, 1963, to which he gave a reply on 10th August, 1963, and, thereafter, a 
departmental enquiry was held in presence of Dr, Hazra and at the said enquiry 
his misconduct was established, and, therefore, his services were- terminated by 
offering him one month's wages in lieu of notice and as such his termination of 
service was justified and he was not entitled to any relief. 

3. On 20th June, 1964, a rejoinder to the employers' statement was received 
from the concerned workman from the General Secretary, Colliery Mazdoor 
Sangh, wherein the case of the workman was stated. Dr, Hazra’s case was that 
he was in the colliery for about 14 years and had a blameless record throughout 
but he was arbitrarily and mala fidely dismissed without any fault of his; that a 
chargessheet was issued to him on false and concocted charges based on a preme- 
ditated conspiracy to remove him from service by omitting deliberately to men- 
tion the specific clause in the Standing Orders in terms of which he was alleged 
to have committed the alleged misconduct to which he replied denying the char- 
ges; subsequently, however, more than three months later and without any ex- 
planation for the long interval, the Manager of the Colliery informed him alleging 
that enquiry had been held on 22nd August, 1963, and 28th August, 1963, and as 
a result of the said enquiry he was dismissed with effect from 11th November, 
1963; that hiq services had been terminated In violation of the principles of natural 
justice under the seemingly innocuous garb of terminating his service without due 
notice but the said dismissal was void. ab initio, and, therefore, it was in-operar 
tive and the enquiry was also vitiated and invalid; that, as such, the termination 
of his service be set aside and he be reinstated to his previous post with full back 
wages, 

4. When the case was taken up for hearing on 11th October, 1966, Shri K, V. 
Ayyar, Group Welfare Officer, represented the management and Shrl Shankar 
Bose represented the concerned workman who also was personally present. Both 
the parties filed documents, which, with mutual consent, were taken in evidence 
and marked Exhibits on both sides. Documents of the management were marked 
Exts. M. to M. 31, and documents of the union were marked Exts. W. to W. 2. 
The company also filed original enquiry papers but they were returned as the 
true copies filed were correct. None of the parties examined any witness but both 
of them argued the case and after arguments were concluded, award was reserv- 
ed. 


5. Put shortly, the facts of the case may bo stated in their chronological order 
with their exhibit numbers as below: 

7-8-19G3 . — Budhan Maridal .gave a written statement on which his thumb 
impression was taken (Ext. M- 9) (English)-Ext. M- 16, M- 17 and 

M-27 (Hindi) in which he stated that due to a fall of piece of coal 
from the roof at the time of cutting coal he got injury in his finger 
and he took treatment from the Colliery Doctor for a month and 
thereafter when ho d ; d not become fit ho went home and after 
reaching home he fell ill and due to this he stayed at home for a 
month and returned to the colliery after becoming alright. This 
statement is witnessed by one Lalu Mandal who has also put his 
thumb Impression. 



[LMrt II— 


35 9 2 I HE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24, lUGG/PALSA a, 1883 


7-8-1963. — On the same day, Gangadhar Majwndar, the trainee Compounder, 
wrote a letter to the Manager in Bengalee, of which the English 
translation is Ext. M- 15, in which he stated that he went to bring the 
sick; register from the quarter of the Compounder Babu but on the 
way Dr. Hazra obstructed him and compelled him to write Budhan 

Mandal’s name in the register and seeing the delay in my coming 

Compounder Babu sent one Muslim who met me and said that Labour 
Officer had wanted this Register but Dr. Hazra told him to go and he 
was taking the Register with him and that Muslim has seen that 
Hazra compelled him to write, and, therefore, Muslim may be called 
and he may be able to tell the whole matter. 

9- 8-1963. — The Manager Issued a ehargesheet Ext. M to Dr. Hazra asking 

him to show cause why disciplinary action should not be taken against 
him because Budhan Mandal, Miner, was absent for two months from 
5th June, 1903, to 6th August, 1963, from his duty and he allowed 

him to resume duty on 7th August, 1963, making him sick for the 

above period, although from the office record it appears he was not 
Sick at all and he admitted himself that he was at his home for more 
than one month and that he did not take medicine from him for that 
period and further that on 7th August, 1963, he snatched the register 
from Shri Gangadhar Maiumdar, trainee compounder, who was taking 
the sick register to/the office and compelled him to enter the name of 
Budhan Mandal in the sick register and that it was regrettable that 
inspite of several verbal warnings he has not removed these defects 
in himself. 

10- 8-1963. — Dr. Hazra submitted his explanation Ext. M-l to the ' above 

ehargesheet stating that Budhan Mandal reported sick on 5th June, 
1963, and periodically he took medicine from the dispensary as per 
the prescription and he was also advised to take rest and to the best 
of his knowledge he was sick and he could not say whether his report 
as stated by the Manager was correct and further stated that the 
al’egation brought against him that the sick register was snatched 
away from the compounder and he compelled the compounder to 
enter the name of Budhan Mandal was absolutely false. 

‘ 22-8-1963. — Shri V. N. Pathak, Labour Welfare Officer, held the enquiry in 

E resence of the concerned workman and recorded the statement of 
ihanapathi Dutta, Compounder, Ext. M - 3 (English') -Ext. M-24 
(Hindi) and of Gangadhar Majumdar, trainee compounder, Ext. M-4 
( English )-Ext. M-24A (Hindi); Muslim Mia Ext. M - 5 (English')- 
Ext. M - 25 (Hindi) and of Rupan Turi Ext. M-6 (English) -M-26 
(Hindi). It may be mentioned that none of the above witnesses of 
the company were cross examined by Dr. Hazra as mentioned in the 
enquiry papers. The enquiry however was adjourned to 28th August, 
1963. 

28-8-1983. — On this date the Enquiry Officer recorded the statement ot 
Budhan Mandal who confirmed his earlier statement Ext. M-7 (Eng- 
lish) -Ext. M-16 and M - 17 and M - 27 (Hindi) and stated that the 
sick ticket was kept in his shirt and was washed away when launder- 
ing. On that day the statement of Dr. Hazra Ext. JVT-8 (English)- 
M - 28 (Hindi) was also recorded by the Enquiry Officer and Dr. Hazra 
affirmed that he replied to the ehargesheet which is now Ext. M-l is 
correct and he has nothing further to say and no witness to examine. 

30-8-1903.— Shri V. N. Pathak, Enquiry Officer, submitted his enquiry report 
Ext. M-2 in which he found that £>r, Hazra had given a false certi- 
ficate to Budhan Mandal and pressed the trainee compounder to 
enter the name of Budhan Mandal in the register of sickness on 5th 
June, 1963, 6th June, 1963, and 8th June, 1963, and thus he was guilty 
of the charges brought against him, and, therefore, the only action 
in such a case which could be was removal from service and he re- 
commended accordingly. 

2-9-1963.—' The Manager sent a letter to the Director Ext. M- 21 recommend- 
ing that the charges against Dr. Hazra have been proved and since he 
is an officer of the company he recommended as a special case that 
instead of dismissing him from service his services should be terminat- 
ed with wages in lieu of one month's notice and, therefore, approval 
of the action was asked for. 

' 10-10-1963.- — The Director informed the Manager Ext. M - 20 giving approval 
to the termination of the service of Dr. Hazra. 



5f_c. 3(ii)] DIE 0A7.E1 I E OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, 1966/PALSA a, 1H88 3593 . 


11-11-1963.— The Manager wrote a letter to Dr. Hazra Ext. M- 10-M-22 
informing that his services have been terminated with immediate 
effect and he should collect his dues. 

28-12-1963. — Reply to the union’s complaint to the Conciliation Officer (C) 
Ext. M - 23 by the Company’s Group Labour Officer. 

6. It may be mentioned at the out set that the Enquiry Officer Shri V. N. 
Pathak, who was Labour Welfare Officer of the company, died admittedly on 5th 
October, 1966, a week before the commencement of the hearing of the case during 
the pendency of the reference. I wanted him to be examined before the Tribunal 
in order to clarify certain points arising out of the statement of Muslim Mia Ext. 
M-5-M-25. Muslim' Mia in his statement before Shri V, N. Pathak on 22nd August, 
19G3, Ext. M-5 which is in English-Ext. M - 25 (Hindi) stated the ''when [ was 
returning I met the Welfare Officer in front of the union’s Office. 1 gave him 
also the entire story’’. In the Hindi Ext. M - 25 he stated that he told the Welfare 
Officer the entire story about Doctor Babu. It, therefore, stiuck me that when 
tie knew all the facts about the case from the start he should not have himself 
conducted the enquiry because he could have been examined as a witness by 
either side or as a court witness by the Tribunal and when he concealed this fact, 
as it is not known whether he was told the Manager about this fact, he ceitalnly 
was not justified in doing so and as such the enquiry held by him cannot be said 
to be fair and proper and in accordance with the principles of natural justice. 
For that reason, I w-anted the Welfare Officer to be examined and then it was 
stated on behalf of the management that he was dead but unfortunately although 
ihe reference remained pending from 6th April, 1964, till 4th October, 1966, for 
about two years, the management did not make any attempt to examine him 
before the Tribunal. It may be said that the management did not anticipate that 
he would die, and, therefore, no previous attempt was made, but I have no doubt - 
that the management must have known from at least Muslim Mia that while re- 
turning from the house of compounder Babu where he went to bring the sick 
register, with the sick register he rnet the Welfare Officer on the "way near the 
union’s office and narrated to him as admitted by him all the facts of the case upto 
that stage, which was really the crucial stage; It appears, therefore, that the 
enquiry held and conducted by such an Enquiry Officer on no account, in my 
opinion, can be held impartial and free from prejudice and fair and proper. On 
this ground alone the enquiry must be held to be Invalid and set aside, It is a 
well-known principle that not only justice should be done but it must appear that 
justice is being done. If a person having knowledge of the facts of the case from 
a prosecution witness is allowed to hold the enquiry I doubt very much if the 
uecused can be said to be satisfied that justice is being done to him although he 
may do justice. In the circumstances, apart from the other points which a;ise 
in this case, I think the enquiry must be held to be inva’id and set aside. 

7. There is another point which struck me which unfortunately was not pressed 
by any party. It may be that I am wrong, but whenever it may be, I simply 
record that fuct for consideration if occassion a v ises. Dr. M Hazra it appears, 
on the letter of the Manager Ext. M-2 1 “is an officer of the company”. Can such 
an officer of the company come within the word “workman" as defined in Section 
i!(s) of The Industrial Disputes Act so as to make the dispute between the em-- 
ployers and this officer an industrial dispute within the meaning of Section 2(kV 
of the Act. Unfortunately this point was not raised, and therefore no evidence 1 
was adduced by any side to show whether he draws wages exceeding Rs. 500 per 
month or he comes within Section 2(s)(IV) of the AM. Be that as it may, I do 
not express any opinion on this point and do not on this ground, therefore, reject 
the reference. 

8. I may however express my opinion on the sick registe” Ext M - 30 on which’ 
alone reliance was placed by the management and 'also by the Enquiry Officer in 
his report Ext. M-2 as will appear from page 2 where he says in paragraph 2 that 
"the register of sickness is the main important piece of er’irlenre." The three en- 
1'ies refied upon are (i) under date 5th June. 1963, SI No. 2338; /li) under date 
8th June, 1983, SI. No. 2338, and serial No. 2346, and (iiil under date 8th June, 
1963, SI. No. 2495, It is said that Si. No. 2338 in the name of Budhan Mandal 
under date 5th June, 1963, and the name of Budhan Mandal under date 5th June, 
1983, and the name of Budhan Mandal under entry No. 2346 under date 8th June. 
1963. and also the name of Budhan Mandal under entry No. 2495 under date 5th 
June, 1963, were written by Gangadhar Majumdar Trainee compounder ,on being 
complied by Dr. Hazra on the way to do so as supported by Shri Muslim Mia. 
On looking at the Register, however, it will appear that under entry No. 2346, 
assuming the name of Budhan Mandal was written under pressure bv’the trainee 
compounder, but what about the Initial In the last column against that entry " 



r PART ]I— 


3594 1HE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24, I96G/FALSA 3, I8S3 


which appears to bo similar to the other initials above and below them which 
the management admitted were of Dhanapati Dutta, compounder. It is not the 
ease of trainee compounder that he was also pressed and forced to forge the initial 
of the compounder; that is also not the case of Muslim Mia, how then does this 
initial of the compounder which is not denied hv him come between ‘his earlier 
and subsequent initials against entry No, 2340. There is no explanation on behalf 
of the management. Then again, on examining the Register Ext. M- 30 further it 
appears that there is not one but there arc several entries which appear lo have 
been inserted or written later on and not in the ordinary course as they appear 
to be, for instance, under Si, No. 2343 under date 8th June, 1963, there is one 
name Diiu Mahato or something written by another ink without filling in the 
other columns. The writer of this appears to be also the writer ot the name under 
Si. No. 2330 of Lutan and under SI. No 2352 of Babulal. Under date 7th June, 
1963, the name of Dibi Mahato has been written under Si. No. 2463 without filling 
in the other columns. Likewise, the narhe of Ramdeo under SI. No. 2465 and 
Abdul Mia under SI. No. 2470, which are signed by the compounder. There arc 
several such writings through, out the Register which show that whenever there 
was necessity of entering new names they were entered in the blank space by the 
compounder. For these reasons, in my opinion this sick Register Ext. M - 30 does 
not inspire any confidence, and if this goes, there is absolutely no reliable evidence 
on which Dr. Hazra can be said to be guilty of any misconduct. 


9. It is not denied by the management that Dr. Hazra was in the service of 
the company for the last about fourteen years and during this period not a single 
■chargesheet was issued against him and, therefore, simply saying that orally he 
was told is not enough and sufficient to find him guilty of any such misconduct. 
It is a very serious offence for a Doctor to forge or to get forged the medical 
register and to show a man sick although he is not sick because if his misconduct 
is proved his name would be struck off bv the Indian Medical Association and, 
therefore, such a charge should not be lightly levelled against a Doctor. It is 
very easy to get statements under pressure from persons, like Budhan Mandal, or, 
Muslim Mia, or the like, and, therefore, no reliance can he placed on their evidence 
in the absence of documentary evidence, 

10. It is really surprising as to why in the chargesheet it is not mentioned as 
to what particular standing order has been ronriavened by the workman for which 
he may be held to be guilty. It Is not said by the management that it has no 
certified standing orders of its own. If b had sai 1 so the model standing orders 
could have been applied to it but curiously enough, as rightly pointed out in the 
written statement of the union, no where it is slated under what specific clause 
of the Standing Orders in terms of which he had committed an offence. Obvious- 
ly therefore it has to be held in the absence of evidence on behalf of the manage- 
ment ihat his services have been terminated not in terms of (he Standing Orders 


11 For the reasons given above, therefore, I hold that the management of 
Industry/West Ena Colliery of M/s. East Industry Colliery Co. CP) Ltd., was not 
justified in terminating the services of Dr. M. Hazra, Medical Officer of the Col- 
liery, by the letter dated 11th November, 1903, Ext. M- in — Ext. M- 22. and there- 
fore the said order of the company terminating his services is set aside and the 
concerned workman Dr. M. Hazra is reinstated with effect from 11th November. 
1903, to his former post with full hack wages and other emoluments to which 
he may be entitled with continuity of service. 


12 This is the award which I make and submit to the Central Government 
under Section 15 of the Act. 


Sd./- Raj Kishork Prasad, 
Presiding Officer, 

Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
Dhanbad. 


[No. 2/8/64-LRII.] 


New Delhi, the 15 th December 1966 

S.O 3927.--Tn pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad. in_ the industrial dispuie between the employers 
in relation lo the Digwadih Colliery of Messrs Tata Iron and Steel Company 



Sec. S(li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 21, I966/P\U«A 3, 1888 3595 


Limited, Jamadoba, Post Office Jealgora (District Dhanbad) and their workmen, 
which was received by the Central Government on the 8th December, 1966. 
PjEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, DHANBAD 
In the matter of an industrial dispute under Sec. 10(1) (d) of The Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947. 

Reference No, 195 of 1965 

Employers in relation to the Digwadih Colliery of Messrs Tata Iron & 
Steel Company Limited, Jamadoba. Post Office Jealgora (Dhanbad) 

Vs. 

Their Workmen. 

Present: 

Shri Raj Kishore Prasad, Presiding Officer. 

For the Employers — None. 

For the Workmen — None. 

State: Bihar. Industry: Coal. 

Camp: C-21, Haaz Kims, New Delhi-16 
Dated , the 19th November , 1966 

AWARD 

By its Order No. 2/117/65-LRII dated 27th November 1965. the Government of 
India, Ministry of Labour and Employment, New Delhi, relerred to this Tribunal 
for adjudication under Sec. 10(1) (d) of The Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, an 
industrial dispute existing between the employers in relation to the Digwadih 
Colliery of M/s. Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd.. Jamadoba, P.O. Jealgora. (Dhanbad) 
and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the schedule annexed to 
the order of reference which is reproduced below: 

Schedule 

“Whether the refusal of the management of the Digwadih Colliery in plac- 
ing Shri Jagdish Singh. Munshi. in the grade of Rs. 60-5-100 with 
effect from the 23rd July, 1959 is justified? If not, to what relief is 

the workman entitled?" 

2. On 15th November 1966 both the parlies filed a joint petition of compromise 
dated 10th November 1966 signed by the Chief Mining Engineer on behalf of the 
Employers and by the Secretary, Colliery Mazdoor Sangh, on behaff of the con- 
cirmed workman 'and the union and attested by two witnesses stating therein the 
terms of the agreement and jointly prayed that an award in terms of the said 
compromise which is marked Annexure ‘A* be made, 

3. I have read the terms of the compromise and, in my opinion, they are fair 
and in the interest of both parties, and, therefore, the compromise is accepted and 
recorded. 

4. That accordingly the reference is disposed of in terms of the compromise 
and an award is made in terms of the compromise Annexure ‘A* and the said 
compromise Annexure 'A‘ shall form a part of the said award. 

5. This is the award which I make and submit to the Central Government 
under Sec. 15 of the Act. 

(Sd.) Raj Kishore Prasad, 
Presiding Officer. 

Central Government Industrial Tribunal. 

Dhanbad. 

BEFORE THE PRESIDING OFFICER. CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 

TRIBUNAL, DHANBAD 

Ref. No. 195 of 1965 

Fartxe9; 

Sri Jagdish Singh, Munshi, Digwadih C.o'liery. 

Vk. 

Employers in relation to Digwadih Colliery of M/s. Tata Iron & Steel Co. 
Ltd., Jamadoba, Jealgora P.O. 



[Pari II— 


3596 HE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24, I906/PAUSA 3, 1833 


The parties mentioned above jointly submit that they have further discussed, 
the matter and settled the dispute by mutual negotiation. The terms of the com- 
promise are as follows: — 

(1) Sri Jagdish Singh, Munshi, will be upgraded to Gr. II Clerk with effect 
from the date from which he has been filling both sides of the prescribed form 
and submitting it in time, viz. 25th March 1963, 

( 2 ) This is being done as a special gesture and will not be taken as a pece- 
dent. 

The parties mentioned above jointly pray that the Hon’ble Tribunal may be 
pleased to make an Award according to the terms of the compromise' 
mentioned above. 


(Sd.) Illegible. 

Chief Mining Engineer, 

For Employers, 

The Tata Iron & Steel Cq. Ltd.. 

(Sd.) Illeglb’e. 
Secretary, 

Colliery Mazdoor Sangh. 
For Union. 

Dated: 10-11-66. 

Witnesses : 

1. (Sd.) Illegible. 

2. (Sd.) Illegible. 

[No. 2/117/65-LRII.} 


S.O. 3928, — In pursuance of section 17 ol the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, in the industrial dispute between the employers in- 
relation to the East Bhaggatdih Colliery of Messrs East Bhaggatdih Colliery Com- 
pany (Private) Limited, Post Office Jharia (Dhanbad) and their workmen, 
which was received by the Central Government on the 8 th December, 1966. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, 

DHANBAD 

In the matter of an industrial dispute under Sec. 10(1) (d) of The Industrial' 
Disputes Act, 1947. 


Reference No. 34 of 1964 

Employers In relation to the East Bhaggatdih Colliery ol Messrs East Bhag- 
gatdih Colliery Company (Private) Limited, P.O. Jharia, (Dhanbad) 

Vs. 


Their Workmen. 

Present: 

Shri Raj Kishore Prasad, Presiding Officer, 

For the Employers — Shri K, V. Ayyar, Group Welfare Officer of the Com- 
pany. 

For the Workmen — Shri S. K. Rai, Secretaiy, Khan Mazdoor Congress, 
Jharia, 

State: Bihar. Industry: Coal. 

Camp: Patna, dated the 19th October, 1966 

AWARD 

By its order No. 8/181/63-LRII, dated 26th March, 1964, the Government of 
India, Ministry of Labour and Employment, referred under Section 10(1) (d) of 
The Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, to this Tribunal for adjudication, an industrial 
dispute existing between the employers in relation to the East Bhaggatdih Col- 
liery of Messrs East Bhaggatdih Colliery Company (Private) Limited, P.O 



Sec. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966/PAliSA 1888 


Jharia, (Dhanbad) and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the 
schedule annexed to the said order of reference which is reproduced below: 

Schedule 

“Whether the dismissal of Shri Prabhu Gararia, Coal cutter of East Bhag- 
gatdih Colliery with effect from the 22nd June, 1963 by the manage- 
ment of East Bhaggatdih Colliery Company (Private) Limited is 
justified? If not, to what relief is he entitled?” 

2. On 20th May 1964 the company filed its written statement in which it was 
said that on a written complaint dated 25th May 1963 from Lugan Manjhi, who 
was assaulted by the concerned workman and another, a chargesheet was issued 
and thereafter a departmental enquiry was held at which witnesses were exa- 
mined on behalf of the company as well as on behalf of the accused and at the 
said enquiry the concerned workman was found guilty of the charge, and, there- 
after, for proved misconduct he was dismissed with effect from 22nd June 1963 
and as such he was not entitled to any relief, 

3. On 6th July 1964 a written statement of the concerned workman was also 
filed by the General Secretary, Colliery Mazdoor Sangh in which it was alleged 
that the fact that Lugan Manjhi was in the habit of taking bribe for giving good 
working face was in the knowledge of the company and due to the adverse atti- 
tude of the company towards the concerned workman, Lugan was giving much 
trouble to the concerned workman by not giving him proper consideration in 
respect of his working faces so much so that even i.u 24th May 1963 he was not 
allotted any working face at all because the concerned workman was not pre- 
pared to oblige him by bribe; that out side the mine an altercation took place on 
25th May 1963 between Lugan Manjhi and the concerned workman due to their 
old quarrel in course of which Lugan Manjhi gave a cut with his teeth on the 
concerned workman which matter was immediately reported to the management 
but to no effect; the management with a malaflde motive issued charges on ima- 
ginary grounds and even out side the complaint of Lugan Manjhi to which the 
concerned workman gave a reply denying all the charges but an enquiry was 
instituted against him and at the said enquiry principles of natural justice were 
thrown to the winds for the reasons given in paragraph 12 of the written state- 
ment; that the defence witnesses were examined including the concerned work- 
man but they were not at all cross-examined by Lugan Manjhi and in spite of 
that their evidence was rejected by the Enquiry Officer who reported guilty against 
the concerned workman; that, therefore, the enquiry was vitiated and should be set 
aside and the dismissal of the workman set aside and he shou’d be reinstated 
with full back wages with effect from 22nd March 1963. 

4. The case was taken up for hearing on 10th October, 1966, and at the hearing 
Shri K. V. Ayyar, Group Welfare Officer of the Company represented the manage- 
ment and Shri S. K. Rui, Sercreta' y, Khan Mazdoor Congress Branch, appeared 
for the concerned workman. Both the parties filed documents, which with mutual 
consent, were taken in evidence and marked exhibits for the parties. Documents 
filed by the management were marked Exts. M. to M. 17 and those filed by the 
union were marked Ex ts. W. and W. 1. Buth the parties examined one witness 
each. The management examined M.W, 1 Shri Bisheswar Nath, Enquiry Officer, 
and the workman examined W.W. 1, Shri Prabhu Gararia, the concerned work- 
man, After arguments were heard, award was reserved, 

5 The material facts of the case may shortly be stated in their chronological 
order as be'ow; 

25-5-1963 . — Lugan Manjhi made a written complaint to the Manager of the 
Colliery Ext. M. complaining against Prabhu Gararia, the concerned 
workman, and Kalu Past saying that they “attacked him at a time 
and assaulted him indiscriminately in presence of so many workers 
of the 1st shift reported at the pit mouth for duty.” 

25-5-1963. — A chargesheet Ext. M. 1 was issued to Prabhu Gararia In which 
it was said that he along with Kalu Pasi “picked up a quarrel with 
him (Lugan Manjhi), behaved with him in a fighting and riotous 
manner and assaulted him (Lugan Manjhi), near the Rest Shed at 
at No. 2 Pit.” 

12-6-1963. — Prabhu Gararia submitted his explanation Ext. M. 2 denying, 
the allegation and saying that lugan Manjhi demanded gratification 
from him about which he had reported to the Manager and ne never 
assaulted Lugan Manjhi, and the charge is framed only to harass and 
victimise him. 



3598 *HE GAZETTE OP INDIA: DECEMBER 24 , 1906 /PAUSA 3, 1888 


[Part II- 


17-6-1963,— A joint enquiry was held into the charge sheets against both 
Kalu Passi and Prabhu Gararia by Shri Bisheshwar Nath, M.W. 1 
Welfai’e Officer, and at the said enquiry on 17th June, 1903, Lugan 
Manjhi, Mining Sirdar of No. 2 Pit Ext. M ~ 3 was examined and cross 
examined only by Kalu Passi, 

10-6-1963, — On this date the Enquiry Officer recorded the statements, on 
behalf of the company, of Bishun Dusadh, Tyndal Mazdoor Ext. M-4; 
R. N. Sarkar, Overman-in-Charge, Ext. M-5; Ravindra Pandey, Ext 
M- 6; and of the concerned workman, pTabnu Gararia, Pick Miner 
No, 2 Pit, Ext. M - 7 and of the other accused Kalu Passi, Pick Miner, 
No. 2 Pit Ext. M. 8 and also of the defence witnesses cf the two 
accused,- namely, Chhotak Bhar, Pick Miner No. 2 Pit Ext. M. 9; Maha- 
rani Din Pandey, Coal Cutter No, 2 Pit Ext. M. 10; Ramkhelawan 
Kurmi, Coal Cutter No. 2 Pit Ext. M. 11 and Shyamlal Thakur, Water 
Mazdoor Ext. M. 12. 

20- 6-1963. — As a result of the enquiry held on 17 th June, 1963, and 18 th 

June, 1663, the Enquiry Officer M. W. 1 submitted his report. Ext. M, 
14 against Prabhu Gara’ia and Kalu Passi holding Prabhu Gararia 
guilty of the charges and recommending that he should be dismissed 
and finding Kalu Passi to be an associate of Prabhu Gararia “though 
he did not take the main part in assault” and therefore, he recom- 
mended that a lenient view should be taken against him and award- 
ed a lesser punishment which he think would be that his period of 
suspension should be without wages and any benefits. 

21- 6-1903, — The Director informed the Manager by a letter Ext. M. 17 that 

he accorded his approval to the dismissal of Prabhu Gararia for 
assaulting Lugan Manjhi, 

2-0-1963. — The Manager informed by a letter Ext. M. 13 Prabhu Gararia. 
the concerned workman, that after the evidence the management 
have decided to award him punishment of dismissal from service, and, 
therefore he was dismissed from service. 

2-4-1964, — The present reference was received from the Ministry, 

0. The original enquiry papers ore also on the record and are marked Exts. M. 3 
to M. 12, which are also the exhibit markes of the typed true copies tiicreof. 

7, I have very carefully considered the arguments presented by both sides and 
to me it appears that the Infirmities pointed out on behalf of the wo kman, which 
I will deal in detail hereinafter, are such that they cannot be ignored and in view 
of these infirmities I am unable to uphold the domestic enquiry to be fair and 
proper and in Accordance with the principle of natural justice. I will now pro- 
ceed to consider the several infirmities one by one, 

8, Joint-Enquiry . — The joint enquiry has very much prejudiced, in my opinion, 
Prabhu Gararia and this will be obvious from the fact that although the evidence 
against both Prabhu Gararia and Kalu Passi is equally balanced, still the 
Enquiry Officer, as rightly alleged in para 14 of the written statement by the 
union, “from a preconceived notion came to a perverse finding of guilt against 
Shri Gararia”, and, found Kalu Passi only an associate of Prabhu Gararia as the 
Enquiry Officer said “he did not take the main part in assault”. This finding is 
obviously perverse and against the evidence as rightly contended on behalf of the 
workman. As against Prabhu Gararia the witnesses who speak that he assulted 
Lugan Manjhi are Lugan Manjhi himself Ext, M. 3; and, Bishun Dusadh, Ext. M. 4 
whereas, as against Kalu Passi the ■witnesses who say that he also assaulted 
Lugan Manjhi are Lugan Manjhi himself, Ext. M. 3; Bishun Dusadh Ext. M 4 and 
R. N, Sarkar. Ext. M. 5. We, therefore, find that if we leave out the complainant, 
there are two witnesses, namely, Bishun Dusadh Ext. M. 4 and R. N. Sarkar; Over- 
man-in-charge Ext. M. 5 who specifically stated that Kalu Passi was assaulting Lu- 
gan Manjhi. In case of Prabhu Gararia if we leave out Lugan Manjhi the complai- 
nant, the only witness left is Bishun Dusadh Ext. M. 4. It may be mentioned that 
R. N. Sarkar Ext. M. 5 Is Overman-in-charge and he does not state that Prabhu Gara- 
rla assaulted Lugan Manjhi but he does state as just now mentioned that Kalu 
Passi assulted Lugan Manjhi. Inspite of this overwhelming and reliable evidence 
of two independent witnesses namely, Bishun Dusadh, Ext, M. 4 and R. N. Slrkar, 
Ext. M 5 against Kalu Passi It is surprising that the Enquiry Officer in his report 
Ext. M. 14 says in the last paragraph of his tepprt that “Evidence and circumstan- 
ces against Shri Kalu Passi have proved and established that he was an associate 
of Prabhu Gararia although he did not take main nart in assult,, therefore, in his 
case I would recommended the management to take lessor punishment which I 



3ec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, J966/EAG3A 3, 1888 3599 


think would be that his period of supension should be withput wages and without 
benefit,” and inspite of only one independent witness, namely, BIshun Dusadh 
Ext. M. 4, the Enquiry Officer finds Prabhu Gararia guilty deserving of dismissal. 
I have no doubt in my mind that the Enquiry Officer was prejudiced against Pra- 
bhu Gararia as rightly mentioned in para 14 of the written statement by the union, 
and therefore, returned a verdict of guilty against Gararia and of not guilty against 
Kalu which on the evidence he could not have. For these reasons, I am of the opi- 
nion that the joint enquiry has very much prejudiced the concerned workman be- 
cause it appears the Enquiry Officer has taken the view that one of the two must be 
held guilty and he found Gararia guilty, as probably he was more prominent. For 
these reasons, therefore, there is a clear bias on the part of the Enquiry Officer. 
In this evidence M.W. 1, the Enquiry Officer has stated that by mentioning in his 
enquiry report Ext. M. 14 that Kalu Passi did not take main part in .the assult 
what he meant was that he did not assault Lugan Manjh i. To this Enquiry Officer, 
the Tribunal put the statements of the company's witnesses to point out as to how 
he justified the statement that Kalu Passi did not assault Shri Lugan Manjhi and 
after reading the statements of all the witnesses of the company Exts. M. 3 to M. 6 
he admitted that as against Prabhu Gararia two witnesses, namely, Lugan Manjhi, 
the complainant, Ext. M-3 and Bishun Dusad Ext. M-4 stated that he assaulted 
Lugan Manjhi, whereas, as aginst Kalu Passi three witnesses, namely, I ugan 
Manjhi, the complainant, Ext, M-3, Bishun Dusadh Ext. M. 4 and R. N. Sarkar 
Ext. M. 5 stated that Kalu Passi assaulted Lugan Manihi. In his enquiryy report 
he said that Prabhu Gararia should be dismissed and Kalu Passi should be treated 
leniently. He however later said that he took the case of Prabhu more serious 
■because of the evidence of Bishun Dusadh Ext. M. 4 who has nothing to do under- 
ground but he admitted that Overman-in- Charge was superior to Tyndal Mazdoor 
which Bishun Dusadh was. From his evidence, therefore, also it is clear that the 
Enquiry Officer was prejudiced against Gararia. Reading, therefore, his report 
along with the evidence in court, there can be no doubt that the report is biased 
and, therefore, it cannot be accepted as fair and proper. 


9, On looking into the original statements of the three witnesses of the com- 
pany Exts. M. 3 to M. 5 it appears that the thumb impression or signature of 
Prabhu Gararia. was not taken on any of them to show that these depositions 
were taken in his presence and recorded in his presence and concluded at the 
place be’ow where his signatures or thumb impressions appeared. This specific 
allegation was made in pa^a 12 of the written statement bv the union. On ques- 
tion being asked by the Tribunal the Enquiry Officer M.W. 1 stated in his cross 
examination that he maintained a file for each enquiry separately in which he 
noted down the day to day proceedings of the enquiry as to what happended on 
a particular day and which witness was examined and what action was taken by 
him and he admitted that he had got the file of those cases but he could not pro- 
duce it. He further admitted that the fact that he gave an opportunity to cross 
examine the witness of the company hut he refused is not noted any where in 
the enquiry proceedings. He was working in the colliery since 1st November, 
1959, and since 1959 he was holding enquiry into complainants and since then he 
said that he has held twenty-five or thirty enquiries and still it was surprising 
that he did not know that he should have taken the signatures or thumb impres- 
sions of the accused before him at the end of the deposition of each witness to 
stop him from taking any objection. This is also wanting. 


10. Another important fact to be noticed is that although four defence witnes- 
ses were examined, namely. Exts. M~ 9, M-10, JVf-11 and M-12 and none of them 
were cross-examined by the complainant and still their statements were not 
referred by the Enquiry Officer for no reason whatsoever. Only in the last but 
one paragraph of his report he has said that ‘‘One important point to be noted in 
the evidence of the workmen and their witnesses is that Shri Lugan Manjhi is 
alleged to have beaten Prabhu Gararia. This fact itself is a proof of assault by 
Shri Lugan Manihi. Biting with teeth is the weapon of a person who is helpless 
and at bay.” He does not. consider the evidence of DWS nor does he say that 
he rejects their evidence. He has not discussed the evidence of the defence witnes- 
ses nor given any reason as to why the un-challcnsed evidence of the defence 
witnesses should not be acted upon in the circumstances. For the above reasons, 
in my opinion, the domestic cnauirv was not fair and proper and in accordance 
with the principles of natural justice, and, therefore it must be rejected, 

11. As no Independent evidence has been adduced before the Tribunal on the 
evidence at the domestic enqquiry, it is impossible to come to a finding that the 
misconduct of “the concerned workman has been established. In the circumstances, 
his dismissal must be set aside. 



3600 in * GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24. 1966/PAUSA S. 1838 


[Pakt 21— 


12. I may observe that the punishment of dismissal inflicted on Prabhu Gararia 
is disproportionate and must arbitrary and discriminatory as compared with that 
of Kaiu Passi when there were two independent witnesses proving assault by 
Kalu Passi on Lugan Manjhi and there was only one independent witness of 
assault by Gararia on Lugan eliminating the complainant in both cases. I cannot 
understand why Kalu Passi should be given only suspension without wages and 
this mamshould be given only dismissal. It does not stand to reason and it can- 
not be justified on any account. It is most unfair and shocking to conscience. It 
only shows that the management was determined any how to get rid of him 
because probably of the strike, as appears from Ext. M- 16, and, therefore, he was. 
dismissed, whereas Kalu Pass! against whom there was equal evidence, rather the 
evidence was more and also more reliable, he was given only lesser punishment 
of suspension. For these reasons, also the punishment of dismissal must be set 
aside. 

13. In either view the dismissal is set aside and he is reinstated to his previous 
job as coal cutter at No. 2 Pit of the Colliery of the management with effect from 
22nd June, 1963, since when he was dismissed as per letter Ext. M. 13 with full 
back wages and other monetary benefits to which he is entitled. 

14. This is the award which I make and submit to the Central Government 
under Section 15 of the Act, 

Sd./- Raj Kishore Prasad, 
Presiding Officer, 

Central Government Industrial Tribunal. 

Dhanbad. 

[No. 8/181/63-LRI1.J 


New Delhi, the 10th December 1966 

S.O. 3929. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, No. 2, Calcutta, in the industrial dispute between the em- 
ployers in relation to the Ningha Colliery, (Post Olllce Kallpahari, Burdwan), and 
their workmen, which was received by the Central Government on the 13th 
December, 1966. 

CENTRAL! GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL NO. 2 CALCUTTA 
Reference No. 43 of 1966 


Parties : 

Employers in relation to the Ningha Colliery, P.O. Kalipaharu 

And 

Their workmen. 

Present : 

Shri S. K, Sen — Presiding Officer. 

State: West Bengal. Industry: Coal Mines. 


AWARD 

By order No, 6/88/05-LR.II dated 23rd July 1963, the Government of India, 
referred for adjudication an Industrial dispute between the employers in relation 
to the Ningha Colliery, P.O. Kallpahari, Burdwan and their workmen arising from 
the dismissal of one workman named Shri Ramgrihi Ram, Winding Engine Oil 
Mazdoor of Ningha Colliery. 

2. After the issue of notices to both parties to file their written statements, the 
management and union have filed a joint petition stating that the dispute arising 
from the dismissal of the workman R'amgrihl Ram has been amicably settled; and 
that the dismissed workman has been re-employed by the management with effect 
from 26th July 1905, i.e. from only 3 days after the date of order of reference by 
the Government. This reference case Is, therefore, disposed of In terms of the 
Joint petition of compromise which shall form part of the award. 

Let this award be sent to the Government for necessary action. 

(Sd.) S. K. Sen, 

Dated ; 9th December 1966. Presiding Officer. 



SBC. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966/PAUSA 3, 1888 360 I 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL, GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL NO. 2 

CALCUTTA 

Referred No. 43 of 1966 

Industrial dispute. 

Between 

Employers in relation to Ningah Colliery, P.O. Kalipahari, Dist, Burdwan. 

And 

Their workmen represented by the colliery Mazdoor Congress, Gorai Mansion, 
G. T. Road, Asansol, Burdwan. 

The humble petition of the Company and the Union most respectfully 
.sheweth; — • 

1. That the above dispute is now pending before this Hon’ble Tribunal and 
■both the Union and the Company was directed by this hon’ble Tribunal to file 
their respective Written statement. 

2. That the parties immediately after the conclusion of the conciliation proceed- 
ings in this dispute and before the above order of Reference was made by the 
Government of India, came to an amicable settlement as follows : 

(a) That the workmen Shri Ram Grihi Ram will be allowed to work on and 

from 26th July 1965 In the Employer's Ningah colliery i.e. Srlpur 
Nos. 4, 5 & 6 pits colliery of M/s. Lodna Colliery Co. (1920) Ltd. as a 
changemcn in the Lamp Cabin on the surface without any adverse 
change in his wages and emoluments which he was earning as a 
Winding Engine Oil Mazdoor. 

(b) That the period of non-employment of Ram Grihi Ram on and from 

16th February 1965 to 25th July 1965 will be treated as if he was laid 
off and would be paid laid-off compensation. 

3. That in terms of the above settlement. Sri Ram Grihi Ram is working from 
26th July 1965 and also received Rs. 205/80 P. on 3rd December 1965 as his lay-off 
compensation. 

4. It is, therefore, submitted that a ‘No-DIspute’ award may be made by this 
hon’ble Tribunal. 

And for this act of kindness your petitioner 
are in duty bound shall ever pray. 
(Sd.) Illegible. 

Signature of the Union Secretary of 

Colliery Mazdoor Congress, 
‘‘Gorai Mansion” 

G. T. Road, Asansol, 
[No, B/88/65-LRII.] 

S.O. 3930. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 (14 
■of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, No, 2, Calcutta, in the Industrial dispute between the em- 
ployers in relation to the Messrs Katras Jherriah Coal Company Limited, (Manag- 
ing Agents: Andrew Yule & Company, Limited, Registered Office 8 Clive Row, 
Calcutta-1), Post Office Dishergarh, District Burdwan, and their workmen, which 
was received by the Central Government on the 13th December, 1966. 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL NO. 2, CALCUTTA 
Reference No. 7 of 1966 

Parties : 

Employers in relation to the Messrs Katras Jherriah Coal Company Limited, 

And 

Their workmen represented by the Colliery Mazdoor Union, 27, G. T, Road. 
Bastin Bazar, Asansol. 

Present: 

Shri S, K. Sen — Presiding Officer. 

Appearances : 

On behalf of employers — Shri P. P. Ginwalla, Bar-at-Law, Shri D. Narsingh, 
Advocate, Shri A. Choudhuri. 

On behalf of workmen — Shri N. R\ Roy, Shri Keshab Banerjee. 

State: West Bengal. Industry: Coal Mines. 


(Sd.) Illegible, 

Signature of the Employer 
Manager, 



[Par r II- 


3602 I'M* GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24, 1966/PAUSA S, 1838 


AWARD 

By Order No. 8/175/64-LRII dated 27th January 1965 a dispute between the 
management of the Seebpur colliery of Messrs Katras Jherriah Coal Company 
Limited managed by Messrs Andrew Yule & Company, Limited, and its workmen 
represented by the General Secretary, Colliery Mazdoor Union, Asansol, was 
referred to the Tribunal for adjudication, The subject matter of the dispute con- 
tained in the terms of reference settled between the parties are as follows: — 

"l. Whether the closure of Seebpur Colliery of M/s. Katras Jharia Coal Co. 
Ltd., is justified and if so, is it due to the circumstances beyond the 
control of the management? 

2. What relief in either of the case each workman is entitled to?” 

The Seebpur colliery belonging to Messrs Katras Jherriah Coal Company Limit- 
ed consisted of two inclines and 2 quarries. One of the inclines was known as the 
K incline and coal of Koithi seam was mined therein, and the other Incline known 
as the P incline and coal of the Ponlati seam was mined therein. 

2. Witness No. 1 for the management, Shrl W, N. Batra, Mining Engineer, who 
was acting as the Agent of Seebpur colliery, said that the distance between the 
two inclines is about 2000 ft,; that between the K incline and K grip quarry is 
about 500 ft.; that between the K incline and Bank Simulia quarry is about 5000 ft. 
and between P incline and Bank Simulia quarry Is about 4000 ft. These distances 
roughly agree with the distances given by the only witness on behalf of the union, 
namely Bipln Behari Singh who said that the quarry is at the distance of 500 or 
600 ft. from the K incline and that the other incline is at the distance of about 
half a mile from the K incline and that Bank Simulia quarry is at the distance of 
about one mile from K incline. 

3. Working of the K incline was closed down on 26th October, 1964 and that 
of the P incline on 28th October, 1984 and the workers of the two inclines were 
laid off. The working in the two quarries continued for 8 or 9 months more but 
in July 1965 the quarries also were closed down. We are in this ease concerned 
with the workmen of the K incline and the P incline and not concerned with 
the workmen of the two quarries, The number of workmen concerned in the 
two inclines who were laid off is 437. They were paid compensation under Section 
25FFF, Sub-section (1), proviso, which provides that where an undertaking is 
closed down for any reason whatsoever, any workman who has been in continu- 
ous service for not less than one year in that undertaking immediately 
before such closure shall be entitled to notice and compensation in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 25F, as if the workman had 
been retrenched; provided that where the undertaking is closed on account of 
unavoidable circumstances beyond the control of the employers, the compensa- 
tion to be paid to the workman under clause (b) of Section ^5F shall not exceed 
the average pay for 3 months. The management, holding that the two inc'ines 
had been closed down on account of unavoidable circumstances beyond their 
control, paid compensation accordingly, that is, one month’s notice pay and 3’ 
months’ average pay as compensation. The workmen claimed that as Seebpur 
colliery consisted of two inclines and two quarries, and two quarries were still 
working when the two inclines were closed down, it was not a closure of the 
undertaking as a whole and that they were retrenched under the provision of 
Section 25F and they are, therefore, entitled to compensation under provision 
of Section 25F of the Industrial Disputes Act. This could make a considerable 
difference in the compensation; for instance the workman examined as the witness 
on behalf of the union namely, Bipin Behari Singh, said that he had been in 
continuous service in Seebpur colliery for 20 years; therefore under Sec. 25F 
clause (b) he was entitled to receive 10 months’ compensation instead of 3 
months’ compensation under the proviso of Sub-section (1) of Section 25FFF, 
There was an attempt of settlement before the Conciliation officer of the dispute 
between the workmen and the employers, but the only settlement they arrived 
at was that the matter be referred to a Tribunal with the prescribed terms of 
reference already quoted above, 

4. There was a preliminary objection raised on behalf of the employers that 
the Tribunal has no jurisdiction because the undertaking has been altogether 
closed down. This preliminary objection was heard by Shrl L. P. Dave who 
by his order dated 19th March, 1966 over-ruled the preliminary objection. In 
addition to the reasons given by Shri Dave, I may state that since the addition 
to the Industrial Disputes Act of Sec. 25FFF, and of a new 3rd schedule of which 
item 10 specifically mentions closure of an establishment as a matter within the 
jurisdiction of Industrial Tribunal, an objection to jurisdiction on the ground of 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; DECEMBER 24, 1966/PALiSA 8, 1838 3603 


a bonafide closure can no longer be entertained. The reference has, therefore, 
now to be decided on merits. 

5, The first question is whether the closure of the two inclines was justified 
and whether it was due to circumstances beyond the control of the management. 
On tliis point, witness No. 1 for the management W. N. Batra, the Agent, har 
stated that the K incline had to be closed down due to underground lire and that 
the P incline had to be closed down due to immediate threat of inundation. He 
added that on getting a report from the Manager he went underground into the 
K incline to ascertain whether the danger was there and he confirmed that there 
was danger of fire and that it was not possible to keep anyone at work there. He 
informed the department of mines and the K incline was thereafter sea ed off 
completely under instructions of the department of Mines by building stopping 
walls of brick and cement. This evidence is fully borne out by the evidence of 
witness No. 2 for the management, Shri P. R. Sharma, under Manager who was 
acting as Manager of Seebpur colliery at the time of the closure. Even the 
witness for the union, Shri Bipin Behari Singh, admitted in cross examination 
that because of collection of dangerous gas it became impossible to continue 
work in the K incline. 


6. As regards the P incline, the agent W. N. Batra stated that on 27th Oct. 64 
he went down the P incline and in his opinion there was serious danger of water 
suddenly filling up the incline and so he directed the Manager not to employ 
men there because of the danger of the Inundation. He said that this also was 
reported to the department of Mines and that within 3 days of the closure of 
the P Incline on 28th October, 1964, that incline was wholly flooded by water. 
He further explained that P incline was surrounded by water logged areas 
consisting of. old workings and that the management had to take special per- 
mission from the department of Mines to work in P incline, and that after the 
submission of the report regarding threat of inundation the department of Mines 
withdrew the permission to work in the P incline. This evidence as to inundation 
of the P incline was fully corroborated by P. R. Sharma, the acting Manager 
at the time of the closure. This witness proved 3 reports as to Water level, Ext. 
A. A1 and A2, showing that the water level was gradually rising and he said 
that if the water levels in the old working were nigher than levels at which 
work was going in the P. incline there would be danger of flooding and that 
there was such danger of inundation by leakage through a barrier of coal between 
the old workings and the area where work was going on in the P incline. Bipin 
Behari Singh examined for the union was a worker of the K incline and he 
agreed that the P incline had to be closed down because of collection of water 
and subsidence of roads within the incline, but he did not see whether P incline 
was completely flooded shortly after the closure of work, apparent^ because 
he had no occasion to go there. In view of the evidence discussed, there can 
be no doubt that the closure of the two inclines was justified and furiher that it 
was due to circumstances beyond the control of the management. 

7. The nixt question is about re’ief that each work man is entitled to. If 
there was closure of the undertaking, than Sec. 25FFF would apply and the 
compensation already given by the management would be appropriate. Shri 
N. R. Roy appearing on behalf of the union has. however, urged that the closure 
of the two Inclines should not be taken as equivalent to a closure of an under- 
taking, as according to him the undertaking is the entire Sccbpur colliery, 
which was under one management, and which consisted of 2 inclines as well as 
2 quarries in which work went on for another & or 9 months. Shri Roy has, 
therefore, urged that the 437 workmen should be deemed to have been retrenched 
and are entitled to compensation under Section 25F. Shri Ginwalla, appearing 
on behalf of the management, has urged that each incline and each quarry com- 
prised a separate mine and a separate undertaking, and that the management 
was correct in applying Section 25FFF of the Industrial Disputes Act. Parties 
have refe“red to certain decisions in support of their respective arguments. But 
the decisions are not quite apposite. In AIR I960 SC 815 (Tea District Labour 
Association, Calcutta, V. Ex-employees), the facts brieflv are that the Tea 
District Association maintained certain agencies at different places in India for 
supplying labour to the Tea gardens, but as the necessity for such recruitment 
lessened two of the recruiting stations or agencies, at Koraput and Gunjam, were 
closed down. The Supreme Court held that the closure of the two agencies must 
be deemed to be closure within the meaning of Section 25FFF. In that case the 
company had already given compensation as for retrenchment; although the appeal 
succeeded the company did not ask for refund of any amount back from the 
employees. The case however has been cited bv Shri Ginwalla to show that 
different agencies at different stations, although under the control Of the same 



[Part II — 


3604 1HE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24, 1 966/ PA USA 3, 1888 


association or company lor recruiting labour, were regarded as separate undertak- 
ings. A similar case cited by Shri Ginwaila is 1962 (I) LLJ 409 (Indian Cable 
Company Limited V. its Workmen). In that case also the company was carrying on 
business at various places in India and decided to close down one of its branches 
and the workmen employed at that branch were paid off. The Supreme Court held 
that the conclusion was inescapable that each branch of a company would 
normally be regarded as a distinct industrial establishment. 

8. As against these cases, Shri Roy relied on 1963 (2) LLJ 86, (Hotel 
Ambassador V. its Workmen). In that case however all the workmen were 
employed at the same place and they were merely divided into certain cate- 
gories or departments. In order to effect economy, the management abolished 
one department and distributed the work among employees in other departments. 
Naturally this was held to be a case of retrenchment and not closure. This case 
is hardiy analogous to tbe facts of the present case. It was a clear case of 
retrenchment. 

9. The respective positions of the 2 inclines and the 2 quarries have already 
been given above. Regulation 30 clause (a) of the Coal Mines Regulations 1957 
provides every system of workings heiowground inter-connected in such a manner 
that communication is practicable from any one part of the system to any other 
part by means of galleries, channels or drifts belowground shall be deemed to 
constitute one mine. If access from one system of such workings belowground 
to another such system is not practicable, each such system shall be deemed to 
constitute a separate mine. In the present case the 2 inclines and 2 quarries are 
not inter-connected and therefore under Regulations 30(a) they constitute sepa- 
rate mines. It Is true that they were under a common management, there being 
the same Manager, Agent and office staff for their management as the evidence 
has shown, but the management proved that for this purpose it had to obtain 
special permission from the department of Mines. Ext. B is a letter of authori- 
sation dt. 18th Jan,, 1963 from the Chief Inspector of Mines, Dhanbad, for the 
appointment of the same Manager for more than one coal mines under Coal 
Mines Regulations 31(4). Tills document shows that the Chief Inspector of 
Mines under Regulation 31(4) of the Coal Mines Regulations 195^7 per- 
mitted that the same person might act as the Manager at the same time 
of all the mines at Seebpnr colliery owned by Messrs Katras Jherriah 
Coal Company Limited. Thus the department of Mines regarded the 
inclines and the quarries as separate mines and gave special per- 
mission under Regulation 31(4) of the Coal Mines Regulations 1957 so that one 
person might act as Manager of all of them. Shri N. R. Roy has urged that since 
the office staff and the Manager were common, the establishment should also be 
regarded as one and not as 4 separate units. Shri Rov has also pointed out that 
the workmen whether employed in the inclines or in the quarries were appointed 
by the Scebpur colliery and identity cards and service cards were granted to 
them in the name of Scebpur colliery, e.g. Exhibit 1 and 1A. Shri Bipin Behari 
Singh has deposed that though he was a worker of the K incline he was occa- * 
sionaliy asked to work in the quarry. But It appears from the cross examination 
that this was an exception rather than the rule, and the workmen employed in 
each incline and each quarry were separate groups, It was only when either 
there was no work for a workman in an incline or there was shortage 
of worker in one of the quarries that one workman was occasionally 
deputed from one place to another. This sort of deputation may be done 
by the same management even from one colliery to another. This does 
not make the inclines and the quarries into one common establishment. It Is 
to be noted that though the workmen and the union claim the benefits of re- 
trenchment under Section 25F of the Industrial Disputes Act, they did not claim 
that the provision of Section 25G should have been applied to the retrenchment. 
Section 25G provides that when any workman in an industrial establishment Is 
to be retrenched and he belongs to a particular category of workmen, the 
employer shall ordinarily retrench the workman who was the last person to be 
employed in that category. Therefore, if the Inclines and the quarries were 
regarded as the same undertaking, the workmen of the inclines when the inclines 
had to be closed down might claim that the senior workmen at least should be 
put to work in quarries but there was no such claim made. To a certain extent, 
this may be regarded as a tacit admission that so far as the working at least is 
concerned, the Inclines and the quarries were separate undertakings. Further, 
it has already been stated that after 8 or 9 months the quarries were also closed 
down. The workmen employed therein naturally received the benefits under 
25FFF of the Act and they could not claim any superior benefit because the 
complete colliery was closed down at that time. Tn the circumstances, it is 
reasonable to hold that even the workmen of the inclines when they were closed 
down would only get the benefits under Section 25FFF and not under Section 



8ec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966/PAPSA 3, 1838 1 360 


25F of the Industrial Disputes Act, This however is an incidental consideration. 
The main reason for my decision is that each incline and each quarry under the 
Mines Regulations 1957 is a separate mine, and so far as the workmen of the 
inclines are concerned, though they might be emp oyed by -the Secbpur colliery, 
they were separate and different groups of workmen from the workmen working 
in the quarries. Each incline and each quarry must therefore be considered a 
.separate undertaking within the meaning of section 25FFF, 

10. I therefore hold that each workman of the incline was entitled to relief 
under Section 25FFF of the Industrial Disputes Act, which benefit appears al- 
ready to have been paid out. My decision therefore is as follows: — 

i*b J 

(i) that the closure of the 2 inclines of Seebpur colliery of Messrs Katras 
Jherriah Coal Company Limited was justified and was due to circum- 
stances beyond the control of the management; and 

(li) that each workman of the two inclines is entitled only to the benefits 
under Section 25FFF of the Industrial Disputes Act which he appears 
already to have received. If In any case such benefit has not been 
paid, he would be entitled to receive the same. 

No order as to costs, Let this award be submitted to Government for 
necessary action. 

Sd./ S. K. Sen, 

Presiding Officer, 

[No. 8/ 175/ 64-LRII.j 

ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 13th December 1966 

S.O. 8931. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers In relation to Messrs Pure Kustore Collieries 
Eirvut^a owners of Pure Kustore Colliery, Post Office Kusunda D'-mie* 
and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred bv clause id) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government, hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus- 
trial Tribunal, Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the said Act, 

Schedule 

Whether the action of the management of Pure Kustore Colliery of Messrs 
Pure Kustore Colliery Company Limited, Post Office Kusunda, Dis- 
trict Dhanbad, in dismissing the workmen named below with effect 
from the dates mentioned against their respective names amounted 
to victimisation? 


Name of the worker 


Designation 


Date of dismissal 


i. Shri Pumamashi Chamar 

Miner 

T4-5-1964 

2 . Shri Mukhu Ah'r 

-do- 

31-8-1964 

3. Shri Foudar Tcli 

-do- 

31-8-1964 

4. Shri Jamuna Bhar 

-do- 

31-8-1964 

5. Shri Paltan Bhar 

-do- 

31 - 8-1964 

6. Shri Khedam Bhar 

-do- 

31-8-1964 

7. Shri Haru Dhari 

Trammer 

31-8-1964 


If so, to what relief are the workmen entitled? 


[No. 2(134) /06-LRIL) 



^6o6 GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24, 1966/PAUSA 3, 1888 [Part II- 


S.O. 3932. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Golden Sinidih Colliery, 
Post Office Tundee, District Dhanbad, und their workmen In respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947 (14 of 1947), the Cen- 
tral Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial 
Tribunal. Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

Whether Chandan Mai Jain, Managing Contractor at Golden Sinidih Col- 
liery, Post Office Tundee, District Dhanbad, was justified in refusing 
employment to Shri Ram Lochan Ram, Fireman, with effect from the 
20th July, 1966? 

If not, to what relief is the workman entitled? 


[No. 2/165/66-LRII.] 

S.O. 3933.— Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Chora Colliery No. 10 Pit 
and 1 and 2 Incline Post Office Chora, District Burdwan and their workmen in 
respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus- 
trial Tribunal, No. 2, Calcutta, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

Whether the dismissal of Shri Muruli Pal, Line Ministry by the manage- 
ment of Chora Colliery No. 10 Pit and 1 and 2 Incline, Post Office 
Chora, District Burdwan, with effect from the 7th December, 1965, 
was justified? If not, to what relief is the workman entitled? 

[No. 8/35/66-LRII.] 
BALWANT SINGH, Under Secy. 


. (Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 15th December 1966 

S.O. 3934. — Whereas the Central Government, having been satisfied that the 
public interest so required had, in pursuance of the provisions of sub-clause 
(vi) of clause (n) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947) 
declared by the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation No. S.O, 1727, dated the 6th June, 1966, 
the banking industry carried on by a banking company as defined in clause (bb) 
of section 2 of the said Act, to be a public utility service for the purposes of the 
said Act for a period of six months from the 29th June, 1966; 

And whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that public interest 
requires the extension of the said period by a further period of six months; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub- 
clause (vi) of clause (n) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby declares the said industry to be a public 
utility service for the purposes of the said Act for a further period of six months 
from the 29th December, 1966. 


[No, F. 1/88/60-LRL] 



3EC. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966/PAUSA 3, 1888 


New Delhi, the 16th December 1906 

S.O. 3935. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Indus- 
trial Tribunal, Bombay in the industrial dispute between the employers in relation 
to Messrs Nathani Steel Yard, Bombay and their workmen which was received by 
the Central Government on 13th December, 1906, 

BEFORE SHRI S. TAKI BILGRAMI, PRESIDING OFFICER. INDUSTRIAL 

TRIBUNAL, BOMBAY. 

Reference (IT-CG) No. 1 of 1965. 

Between 

Messrs. Nathani Steel Yard, Bombay 

And 

The workmen employed under them. 

In the matter of abolition of contract system. 

Appearances ; 

Dr. A. V. R. Rao with S. G: Kukadam for the company, 

Shri H. K. Sowani, Advocate, with Shri Manohar G. Kotwal, Secretary, 
Transport and Dock Workers’ Union, for the workmen. 

AWARD 

This is a reference under Section 10(1) (d) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947), made by the Government of India for adjudication cxf a dispute 
between Messrs. Nathani Steel Yard, Bombay and their workmen, which arises 
out of the following dispute raised by the workmen: — 

(1) Whether the demand of the workmen who are employed by the con- 

tractors of M/s. Nathani Steel Yard, Bombay engaged in the said 
Steel Yard for work In connection with the Port, for abolition of con- 
tract system Is justified? 

(2) If so, to what relief are the workmen entitled? 

2. The above dispute was first referred to Shri Salim M. Merchant and there- 
after transferred under Section 7A and Section 33B(1) to Shri M. R. Meber and 
on his retirement referred to me for adjudication. 

3. The parties have arrived at a settlement and pray for an Award in terms 
thereof. An award Is made In terms of the said settlement annexed hereto and 
the reference stands disposed of. 

Sd./- S. Taki Bilgrami, 

Presiding Officer. 

30-11-1966 

Memorandum of Settlement In respect of Reference (IT-CG) of 1965 before 
Sri Taki S. Bilgrami, Presiding Officer, Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, 
regarding a dispute between Messrs. Nathani Steel Yard and the work- 
men engaged by the Contractor represented by the Transport and Dock 
Workers' Union, Bombay, regarding the abolition of the contract 
system. 


On 2nd January 1963, the Transport and Dock Workers’ Union, Bombay, raised 
certain demands on behalf of some workers engaged by the Contractors Rams- 
chandra for doing the work of loading and unloading of Nathani Steel Yard, Bombay, 
After the failure of the mutual negotiations, the Union referred the matter to the 
intervention of the Regional Labour Commissioner, Bombay, but as it was found 
that these workers were engaged by the contractors and not by the Nathani Steel 
Yard, the dispute was not admitted in Conciliation. Again on 17th June 1963, the 
Union sent a demand to the Management, requesting thp workers who were to be 
taken by the contractors should be taken under their direct employment. As 
again the mutual negotiations failed the matter was once again referred to the 
Central Labour Commissioner, Bombay. The matter was referred to the Conci- 
liation Officer on 23rd July, 1963, joint discussions took place on 2nd August 1963, 
and Conciliation proceedings ended in a failure on 30th August 1963. A failure report 
was sent to the Central Ministry of Labour and Employment by the Conciliation 
Officer on 2nd September 1963 under intimation to the parties, conveying their 



3608 iHE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24, 1966/PAUSA 8 , 1888 [Part II- 


respective stands to the Government. On the receipt of the report of the Conci- 
liation Officer, the Government of India vide their letter, dated 4th December 1964 
referred the above dispute to the adjudication of Sri Salim Merchant, Industrial 
Tribunal, Bombay, constituted under Section 7(a) of the Industrial Dispute Act. 
.Again after some time vide the letter dated v/ 28/ 62/ 63 dated 26th June 1965, the 
Government of India, Ministry of Labour and Employment issued another notifica- 
tion referring the dispute to the adjudication of Sri Meher M.R., Presiding Officer, 
Industrial Tribunal, Bombay. Sri Meher sent the parties a letter dated 31st Julv 
1965 asking them to file their respective justification statements. Accordingly the 
management and the Union filed their statements on 1st November 1965 and 17th 
September 1965 respectively. The case was first fixed for hearing on 9th November 
1965 and thereafter it was adjourned from time to time with the mutual consent 
.of the parties for the negotiating a mutually acceptable settlement till 16th Septem- 
ber 1988, when the following agreement was arrived at between the parties. 

Terms of the Agreement 

1. It is hereby agreed that the workers who are so far working with contractor 
Tor loading and unloading operations, of Nathani Steel Yard and who could be 

provided reasonably continuous work and whose names as given by the union are 
given in the annexure appended herewith, will be taken under the direct employ- 
.ment of the Management, from the date of settlement. 

2. If the loading and unloading work require more than the labour that Is 
being absorbed os per the annexure referred to in clause 1, the Management 
reserves the right to engage such labour on contract basis whenever required, for 
.such duration as may be necessary without entailing upon themselves the respon- 
sibility of absorbing them in their direct employment like workers mentioned in 
the annexure cited above. 

3. The workers, as per the annexure appended herewith, who will be taken in 
the direct employment of the company as per the demand of the union, will be 
absorbed In the unskilled category and In the scale fixed for them by another 
agreement with Bombay Mazdoor Union on 14th July 1906, i.e., Rs. 1-25-0. 10th 
February 1965. But they will be given a higher start of Rs, 1-45 P. per day to 
begin with from the date of settlement, as per the request of the Union. 

4. The said workers who are now going to be absorbed in direct employment 
as per the particulars specified in the annexure, will also be given, as a gesture 
of good will of the management an ex-gratia amount of Rs. 78/- per worker and 
hope they will render them better and more efficient work in view of the fact 
'the management has now agreed to take under them directly in employment, giving 
them additional benefits. 

5. Provident Fund.— The workers like the rest will be governed by the Emp- 
loyees' Provident Fund Act. 

6. Sick-leave. — The said workers like the rest of the workers will be governed 
by the ESIC Scheme and will be entitled to the benefits thereunder, 

7. Casual-leave. — The workers will be entitled of 7 days casual leave for year. 
Tt is non-accumulatlve. Not more than two days casual leave will be allowed at 
a time but the workers will be allowed to prefix or suffix their casual leave to a 
holiday. They will not be entitled to encash casual leave. 

8. Paid Holidays. — The said workers will be entitled for 5 paid holidays in a 

year as per the prevailing practice. 

9. Uniforms. — The said workers will be given after one year of continuous 
eervicej from 1st December 1966, two pairs of uniforms to each per year, as per 
the existing practice. 

10. Earned-Lenve. — The said workers like the rest of the workers will be entitl- 
ed to leave with pay at the rate of one day lor every twenty days of work performed 
by them in the previous year. 

11. Dearness Allowance.— (i) During the first half year of their service i.e. 

from 1st October to 31st March, 1967, the said workers will get a dearness allowance 
equivalent to 75 per cent of the Bombay cotton textile scale for the working days 
of the month. M>l iffl 



Sec, 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966/PAUSA 3, 1888 3609 ' 

(ii) During the second year of service i.e. from 1st April to 31st March, 1988, 
85 per cent of the revised cotton textile scale for the days of the month worked' 
will be given. 

(iii) During the last 1& years, i.e. from 1st April 1968 to 31st October, 1969,- 
which is the third year of settlement, the workers will get 90 per cent of the Bom- 
bay cotton textile scale for the days of the month worked. 

12. Gratuity. — The following scheme of gratuity will be made applicable to- 
workers from the date of settlement: — 

(1) On the death of a worker, while in the service of the firm or his being, 
physically or mentally handicapped, for further service — 26 "days basic 
wages subject to a maximum of 15 months basic wages, payable to 
him or his heirs or executors, as the case may be. 

(Ii, On retirement or resignation.— After 15 years of continuous service, 13 
days basic wages, subject to maximum of 15 months basic wages. 

(Hi) On termination of service. — After 5 years of continuous service, 7 days 
basic wages, after ten years of continuous service — 10 days of basic 
wages subject to a maximum of 15 months basic wages. 

(iv) Gratuity will not be paid to a workman discharged or dismissed for mis- 

conduct causing financial loss to the extent of the loss suffered by the- 
Arm. 

(v) Wages for the purpose of the gratuity shall be the last drawn basic wages. 

on the date or event of death, resignation, or termination or abondon- 
ment of service as the case may be. 

(vi) Continuous service means for the purpose of this agreement, service 

which is not broken by any termination of service by discharge or 
dismissal or resignation or abandonment of service. 

13. Engineering wage board — Adjustment that may be necessary after the sub- 
mission of the report and acceptance of recommendations to the extent applicable 
to the workers of this company. 

(i) If the Wage Board for the Engineering industry awards any final monetary 
benefit or relief which is recommended by the Government, such relief to the 
extent applicable to the company shall be considered on the consolidated wages 
that are in existence as a result of this settlement. 

(ii) If such increases awarded by the wage board and recommended by the 
Government is granted than what has already been granted under this settlement, 
the difference will be made good to the workmen affected by the docision of the 
wage board from the date on which the award of the wage board becomes effective. 

(iii) If, however, any monetary final Relief, awarded by the Wage Board and 
recommended by the Government falls short of what has already been given, by the 
company under this settlement, the workmen shall not be required to reimburse the 
same, excess amount to the company. 

14. Payment of adjustments offered vide clause 4 above will be made along with, 
the wages for the month of November. 1966. 

15. Duration of the settlements. — The settlement shall come into force with 
effect from 1st October 1906 and shall remain in force for a period of three years 
from the date of operative of settlement, ending with 31st October, 1969, and the 
workmen or the Union or other shall have no right whatsoever to raise any fresh 
demands regarding any of the above matters or agitate for the same during the 
operation of the settlement. 

(Sd.) Illegible, 

M/s. Nathani Steel Yard. 

Adjacent to Vidhya Vihar Rly, Station, 

Bombay-77, (Sd.) Illegible, 

Transport and Dock Workers’ Union,. 

Bombay- 

10th November 1960. 

List of the workers in the employment of M/s Nathani Steel Yard- 

1. Shri Bala Mahadu. 

2. Shri Prabhakar Tukaram 

3. Shri Dyaneshwar Shanker. 



3610 GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24, 1966/PAUSA 3, 1888 


[Part II- 


4. Shiri Ramdhanl. 

5. Sbri Sldhari Prasad, 

6. Sbri Sharmuraj. 

7. Sbri Baiju Prasad. 

8 Shri Chhabilal 

9. Shri Kanhaiyalal- 

10. Shri Tukaram Sitaram. 

11. Sbri Satyaba Tukaram. 

12. Shri Raghu Genu. 

13. Shri Raghunath Maruti. 

14. Sbri Namdeo Gajoo. 

15. Shr' Balkoo Ananda. 

16. Shri Rama Aba. 

17. Shri Dadoo Jiwra. 

18. Shri Sitaram Ganpat. 

19. Shri Pandurang Abaji. 

20. Shri Nizauddin. 

21. Shri Khandu Rakhma. 

22. Shri Ramchandra Vithoba. 

23. Shri Santlal Bhikoo. 

24. Shri Nana Bhau Rafiboo. 

25. Shri Baboo Dagdoo. 

26. Shri Rajaram Hari. 

27. Shri Sopana Lahanoo. 

28. Shri Sopana Bapoo. 

29 . Shri Mahipat Rambhar, 

30. Sbri Tatyaba Kondiba. 

31. Shri Jaislngh Vithoba. 

32. Shri Tambi Dev Taigo. 

33. Shri Mahadeo Vithoba. 

34. Sbri Baban Nagoo. 

35. Shri Dasarath Tukaram. 

36. Shri Sona Manjapa. 

37. Shri Laxmibai Ganpat. 

38. Shri Rama Genoo. 

39. Shri Kashinath Maruti. 

40 Sbri Sakharam KIsan. 

41. Shri Laxman Shripat. 

42. Shri Dhondibau Maruti. 

43. Shri Namdeo Rambhau. 

44. Shri Hasan Yusuf. 

45. Shri Ramoo Bala. 

46. Shri Pancham Hari. 

47. Shri Pandurang Shivram. 

48. Shri Ananda Govinda. 

49. Shri Ram Shantaram. 

50. Shri Banshl Tatyaba. 

51. Shri Ram Dhaneshwar Sumir, 

52. Sbri Dukhram Sechan. 

53. Shri Yeshwant Deoji. 



Sec. 3(il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966/PAUSA 3, 1888 


54. Shri Ananda Rajaram Sagre. 

55. Shri Dyandeo Shivram Ichke, 

56. Shri Gajaraj. 

57. Shri Maruti Baboo Renuse. 

[No. 28(62) /63-LRIV.l 


S.O. 3936.— In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Labour Court, Hubli in the industrial dispute between the employers in relation 
to the management of the quarries of Messrs Bagalkot Cement Company Limited, 
Bagalkot, District Bijapur and their workmen which was received by the Central 
Government on the 3rd December, 1966. 

IN THE LABOUR COURT AT HUBLI 
Dated 28th November, 1966. 

Central Government Reference (ID) (LCH) No. 15 of 1966. 

Present : 

Sri Syed Azizuddin Ahmed, M.A., B.L., Presiding Officer. 

Between 

The Workmen of M/s. Bagalkot Cement Company, Ltd.. Bagalkot, represented 
by the General Secretary, Bagalkot Cement Co., Workers Union Venkatpet, BagaL 
kot. — I Party. 


AND 

The Management of M/s. Bagalkot Cement Company Ltd., Bagalkot, Dist. Bija- 
pur. — II Party. 

This is a reference U/s 10(1) (d) read with Section 7 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, made by the Government of India, Ministry of Labour and Employment, 
New Delhi, dated 21st January 1966. The point of dispute referred for adjudica- 
tion is as under: — 

“Whether the retrenchment by the management of the following 45 work- 
men on the 24th October, 1964 is proper and justified? If not, to what 
relief are they entitled? 


S.No. Name [ 

1. S. S, Koppal 

2. A. V. Deshpande 

3. K. K. Maktedar 

4. S. A. Badami 

5. Gadigeppa Mallappa 

6. Chanbasappa Sangappa 

7. Dhulappa Nagappa 

8. Rudrappa Ramappa 

9. Neelappa Nanappa 

10. Yalgurdappa Yankappa 

11. Basappa Dundappa 

12. Chaqdrappa Rangappa 

13. Dongarisab Alligab 

14. Topanna Thakarappa 

15. Manappa Havalappa 

16. Shivaputrappa Bhimappa 

17. Irappa Laxman 

18. Kasimsab Hasansab 

19. Aminsab Dongarisab 

20. Hamajasab Husensab 

21. Dhariyappa Nagappa 

22. Rajesab Allisab 

23. Teekappa Gopanna 


S.No. Name 

24. Grupadappa Girimallappa 

25. Vithal Govindappa 

26. Irappa Ganapateppa 

27. Ghanabasappa Sangappa 

28. Keshappa Japanna 

29. Basaveraj Honakeriappa 

30. Babu Dharamappa 

31. Maliyappa Sangappa 

32. Vitbal Chandrappa 

33. Mahibubsab Husensab 

34. Yamanappa Bhimappa . 

35. Ramappa Bhimappa 

36. Shankarappa Dundappa 

37. Gadeeppa Parappa 

38. Konappa Sorappa 

39. Ramappa Siddappa 

40. Adiveppa Shivalingappa 

41. Irappa Chanabasappa 

42. Rahimansab Husensab 

43. Ramappa Haleppa 

44. Jeevappa Gopanna 

45. Hanamantnppa Basappa 


™ 2 ' -J he , < r ause „ cif the aggrieved workmen has been sponsored and espoused by 
Ihe Bagalkot Cement Company Workers’ Union, Venkatpet, Bagalkot. Biiaour 
District represented by its General Secretary. Sri N. K. Upadhyaya, President 



[ Part 


3612 iHE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24, 1966/PAU8A 3, it.-'-l 


of the union appeared for the I Party while Sri B. Narayanaswamy, Advocate 
appeared for the II Party. 

3. In response to the notice issued by this Court, the I Party tiled its claim 
Statement, dated 28-2-1960 and the II Party its Counter Statement, dated 28-6- 
1966. 

4. The present industrial dispute relates to the retrenchment of forty-five 
workmen of the II Party management. The case of the I Party is that all these 
forty-five workmen were permanent employees of the Company, and they were 
working in the Company’s lime-stone mines as ‘mazdoors’ and 'mares’ with a 
continuous service of more than 7 to 8 years. On 21-4-1964 the management re- 
fused work to some of the aggrieved workmen, who had attended their duties in 
‘C’ shift from 14,00 hours to 22.00 hours and had worked for one and half hours. 
The retrenchment is in violation of the provisions of 15 (a) of the Standing 
Orders of the Company in as much as two weeks' notice was not served on the 
aggrieved workmen. The management did not comply with the procedure laid 
down in Sec. 25-G of the Industrial Disputes Act. It gave the go by to the 
principle ‘last come first go’. Further, the management had violated the Indus- 
trial Truce resolution, dated 3rd November, 1962, which stated that dismissals, 
retrenchments, and discharges should be avoided during the present emergency. 
Thus, the whole action of the management is illegal and ultravires. Hence 
the workmen have to be reinstated with back wages and with costs. The IT Party 
resisted the Claim Statement. It filed a detailed Counter Statement travel sing 
the allegations in the Claim Statement of the I Party. The pith and substance 
of the Counter Statement is that the retrenched workmen were working as tem- 
porary hands and were made permanent with effect from 1st January, 1964. 
They were made permanent on the specific understanding that their services 
would be terminated as soon as the belt-conveyer was installed. This is evi- 
denced by a copy of the undertaking given by the workmen marked Annexure A. 
The workmen were retrenched by tne Company as per notice dated 24th October, 
1964, As they were superfluous to requirement for reasons stated in the said 
notice. The copy of the notice is appended and marked as Annexure B. The 
retrenched workmen were offered a month’s wages in lieu of notice and retrench- 
ment compensation in accordance with the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 and all 
other dues. All of them have accepted the wages in lieu of notice, retrenchment 
compensation and all other dues, Due to installation of the belt conveyer from 
the quarry to the factory, the work of transportation of crushed lime stone to 
the factory from the quarry by tubs, which the concerned workmen were all 
along doing was not available and hence they were rendered surplus to require- 
ment. The management in effecting the retrenchment has followed the proce- 
dure laid down in Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 and only the junior most workmen 
have been retrenched. 

6. The II Party denied the fact that it had not followed its Standing Orders 
or the provisions of Chapter V A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. The con- 
cerned workmen were served with individual noti"e on 24th October, ] 964 stating 
the reasons for which the retrenchment was effected. The company had also 
put up a general notice on the notice-board, informing the concerned workmen 
that they were being retrenched as they were rendered superfluous to require- 
ment due to the installation of belt conveyor. It was further stated that the 
Industrial Truce resolution dated 11th March, 1962 referred in the Claim State- 
ment does not in any way impose a legal bar in respect of retrenchment of work- 
men if it become necessary due to rationalisation of machinery and more effi- 
cient methods of manufacture. There is nothing illegal in the action _ of the 
company in retrenching these workmen and they are not entitled to be reinstated 
nor are they entitled to any relief. 

7. In addition to the Point of Dispute, referred for adjudication, on 28th 
June, 1966 the following issue was raised: — 

Whether the I Party proves that the II Party management has not followed 
its standing order provision 15 (a) and Sec. 15 G of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 while effecting the retrenchment of the aggrieved 
workmen? 

8. The I Party examined in all four witnesses and closed its evidence 
while in rebuttal, the II Party examined in all two witnesses. Three documents 
were marked as exhibits for the I Party and twelve for the II Party. 

FINDINGS 

9. These two issues may, better, be discussed together. Annaji, W.W.l. Syed 
Abdulkhader, W.W. 3 who are the mates and the other witnesses Vithal, W.W. 2 
and Shankarappa. W.W. 4 who are the ordinary workmen admitted that they 



Src. 3(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1MS/PAUSA 3, 1888 3 g I3 


wore all daily rated workmen getting Rs, 3-50 per day. They deposed that they 
were not served with the notice of termination and tho same was not put up 
on the notice-hoard of the factorv. Anna;)!. W.W. 1 says that the Works Mana- 
ger orally told him that he and the other 14 workmen working under him were 
no longer reouired and that they had been retrenched. Similarly, Syed Abdul- 
khadar. W.W, 3 deposed that on 25th October, 1964 when he came to duty the 
Watchman told him that he had been retrenched. The witnesses of the I Party 
W.W. 1 to W.W. 4 make a grievance of the fact that, the workmen, who were 
iunior to them have been retrenched while they who were senior to them had 
been retrenched. They cited the names of Nineanoa Sirur, Saheblnl. Ningappa 
Siddnnpa, Dadahhal. lMohmad Ghouae. Rate Saheb, Hanamanta, Narayana, Basayya 
and Yalta bv way of example. All these witnesses admit having received the 
retrenchment compensation, one month’s wages in lieu of notice and other dues. 
In rebuttal. B. S. Mani, M,W. 1 Chief Time-keeper, who has been working under 
the II Party since last eleven years deposed that for the year 1962 they were 
getting the work of tub-loading through a contractor. Orlginady all the 45 ag- 
grieved workmen used to work under a contractor. Ex. M-7 is the work order 
end Ex. M- 3 is the order abolishing the contract system in the department. The 
workers, who were working under the contractor were taken over by the manage- 
ment as temporary workers. Ex. M-9 is the file containing the undertakings given 
by e^r-h one of the aggrieved workmen when they were taken as temporary 
workmen. For a proper anpralsal of the real nature of the dispute between 
the parties, it would be better to reproduce in full one such undertaking of the 
workman. It runs thus: 

Q. T, No. 42 


To, 

The Mines Manager, 

Bagalkot Limestone Mines, 

Bagalkot. 

Temporary Appointment 
Sir, 

It has been, explained by your officers to me that I have been recruited by 
you as a temporary worker for loading of tubs of limestone at the quarry. 


I know that the work will be of temporary nature and as the company pro- 
poses; to instnl a belt conveyor within a short time, mv work will be limited to 
a *->w months, any wav not more than five months from today. At the end of 
thus ner’od my work with vou will come to an end and I shall have no claim 
whatsoever in resnect of this work excepting what appertains to temporary em- 
ployment for a limited period. 

T am signing this letter to indicate that I have perfectly understood the tem- 
porary nature of mv employment and I am fully aware that it will come to an 
end within a period of six months from today. 

I am grateful to you for giving me, during my period of employment with 
you, the wages of an unskilled labourer, as introduced in ail cement factories. 

Yours faithfully 
* * * * 


L.H.T.I. of Irappa Taxman Bagalkot: 

Bagalkot, 

Doted 15th December, 1962. 

When the workmen were made permanent a fresh undertaking was taken from 
them as per Ex. M-1. It runs thus: — 

"Anotxttre ‘A’ 

Mines Manager, 

Bagalkot Limestone Mines, 

Bagalkot. 

Sir. 

T am grateful to vou that at mv request you have made mv Temporary ap- 
pointment. in+p a permanent one with efFect from 1 st January, 1964, on mv having 
completed continuous service which makes me eligible for being made Permanent. 
T am glad lhat the companv will grant me all the privileges of a permanent ap- 
pointment like Provident Fund, Leave and retrenchment compensation. 



3614 1,1E GA7ETTE OF INDIA : -DECEMBER 24, 196S/FAUSA 3, 1888 [Part II- 


You have explained to me that rav appointment will be terminated as soon as 
the Belt Convevpr is installed and that my work with you will come to an end 
on that day, and that I shall have no claim for continuity of my service. 

I am signing this letter to Indicate that I have perfectly understood the nature 
of my employment and that tt will come to an end as soon as the Belt Conveyor is 
installed. 


Yours faithfully, 


Date:— 

By seeing the Master "Ledger. Ex TVC — 10, the witness stated that, Saheblal Sagar, 
SI. No. 902. Ningappa — Siddaooa. SI. No. 1004, Dadabhai Kotwal. SI. No. 993, 
Hanamantappa Sivarayrmpa. Sd. No. 1009, Gangsppa Sivappa, S. No. 1007, Siddappa, 
Bflsapoa, SI. No. 1011. Rajesaheb Imamsaheb. SI No. 004 , Naravan Govtndappa, SI. 
No. 1010 were all confirmed on 1st January, 1964. The aggrieved workmen SI. 
No. 945 to 900 in Ex. M- — 10, each one of them was also confirmed on 1st January 
1964 Thev were retrenched on 21st April, 1964 as seen from Ex. M— 10(a). R.O. 
Yalgi. SI. No. 478 joined the ex-service In the ouarry on 17th September, 1956. 
Siddappa Bannidinnl Is an Independent contractor, be is not an employee of the 
company and his name does not figure In Ex M — 2. There ha? been practically 
very little cross-examination of this witness. Sivaputrappa M. W. 2. Time-keeper 
of the Ilnd Party deposed that the management had served a notice of change to 
the union as per Ex, M— 11. A general notice as per Ex. M— 2 was put up on the 
notlce-Bonrd by 1 the neon in bis person and under hts Inspection, himself took perso- 
nally letters to the individual aggrieved workmen but thev refused to receive the 
letters. Two such letters have been marked Exs M — 3 and M— 4 and the others 
collectively as Ex. M — 12. His peon pasted .tho duplicate of the individual letters 
on tho notice hoard under his instruction. The general notice of retrenched In 
Kannarese version was also pasted on the notice board in his presence During 
the course of his cross-examination ho further clarified that he presented the letters 
fop service when the workmen were on duty on 24th October. 1964. 

9. Sri N. K. Upadhvava. the learned representative of the I Party assailed the 
retrenched of the aggrieved workmen on three grounds. The first being that th« 
management did not contact the workmen to communicate them the reasons for 
retrenchment. Secondly, the principle of 'last come first go’ as prescribed in Seo 
tion 25G was not observed. Thirdly, notice as laid down In Section 25 F (r.) was 
not served on the appropriate Government. He also pointedly invited my attention 
to the Industrial Truce Resolution referred to in the Claim Statement. He refer- 
red to the following rulings during the course of his arguments: 

(1) 1955 LLJ (2) page 395. 

(21 1957 LL.T (1) page 243. 

(3) 1960 LXJ (1) page 251. 

10. Sri B. Narayanaswamy, arguing for the Party submitted that the conten- 
tion of the learned representative arc devoid of substance He submitted that from 
unimpeachable evidence the management has stablisbed the fact, that the manage- 
ment did serve the retrenchment orders on the aggrieved workmen as evidenced hv 
the testimony of Shlvaputra, M.W. 2, hot the agrrieved workmen had refused to 
serve them. The duplicate of the orders were pasted on the notice botord of the 
factory in the presence of this witness and under his instruction by his peon Kul- 
karni. This being so, it cannot he contended that the management 'hd not contact 
the workmen to communicate them the reasons of retrenchment, He argued that 
due regard has been given to the principle of ‘last come first go’ in effecting re- 
trenchment. Thirdly, that there has been due compliance of the provision 15A of 
the Standing Orders and Section 25G of the T.D. Act. 1947, Lastly, he submitted 
that retrenchment has been effected when it became inevitabV and there has bcert 
no violation of the Industrial Truce Resolution, dated 3rd November. 1962 stated 
by the T Party in its Claim Statement. T gave my wakeful attention to the deci- 
sions referred to above. 

11. In thp first, ruling, which’ is of the Labour Appellate Tribunal of India, it 
lias been observed: 

"There must he an order terminating their services and it must be communi- 
cated to the workmen concerned. As the company had declared a 



i)ic. Jt(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; DJECEjvIBFK 2-1. 1966/l’AlJSA 5, 1883 


3615 


lock-out following the strike and the workmen could not, therefore, 
have access to the ntoice board oi the company, a general notice of 
dismissal allixed on the notice board ot the company cannot toe consi- 
dered to be effective. Similarly the oiler to reinstate the workmen, 
who would report for duty within the stipulated time should be in- 
factual In the circumstances, etc.” 

It is apparent to the naked eye that this ruling is not on all fours with the facts 
of the present case. Herein we nave got the sworn testimony of Shivaputra, M. W.;; 
that he personally took the letters (order of retrenchment) to the individual work- 
men and they had refused to serve them. The duplicate or these orders were past- 
ed on the notice board in his presence and under his instruction oy his peon 
Kulkarni. There is no reason to disbelieve the sworn testimony of this witness. 
The points canvasssed in the soeond ruling are different and they have no bearing 
on the facts of the present case. In the last decision It has been observed: 

“The Sci tion 25 E(b) provides that no workmen shall be retrenched until 
the condition in question has been satished. Hence, it cannot be 
contended that when the sanction imposed in mandatory terms a condi- 
tion precedent non-compliance wim the said condition would not ren- 
der the impugned retrenchment invalid and inoperative”. 

The argument of Sri N. K. Upadhyaya is that the retrenchment of the aggrieved 
workmen is invalid and inoperative. We shall just examine the validity of this 
argument. All the four witnesses examined by the I Party have admitted the re- 
ceipt of retrenchment compensation, one month's wages in lieu of notice and other 
dues, Prom credible evidence it has been established that the notice of retrench- 
ment detailing the reasons was presented to them for service and that they had 
refused to serve it- Thereupon, the same was pasted on the notice board. Ad- 
mittedly no notice in the prescribed form has been served on the appropriate Gov- 
ernment. We shall just consider the ellect of nonservice of such notice. In a rul- 
ing reported in 11104 LLJ (1) 351/057 (S.C. ) it has been observed: 

“There does not appear to be present any compelling consideration which 
would justify the making of the provision presciibed by Clause ‘C’ 
a condition precedent as in the case ol Clauses ‘A’ and ‘B’. There- 
fore, having regard to the object which is intended to be achieved by 
Clauses ‘A’ and ’B’ as distinguished from the object which Clause 
‘C’ has in mind, it would not be unreasonable to hold that clause ‘C 1 
unlike Clauses 'A' and 'B‘ Is not a condition precedent.” 

In the instant case, in the absence of any evidence to show that the workmen re- 
ceived the compensation amount and one month’s wages in lieu of notice volunt- 
arily they can have no claim to reinstatement, There does not seem to be much 
truth in the allegation that the management had given the go by to the principle 
of ‘last come first go’ as seen from the testimony of B.S. Mani, M.W. 1, Chief Time 
Keeper, which has been referred above After the adjournment of the case for 
passing of the award, Sri N. K. Upadhaya, tile learned representative of the I Party 
sent a list of 34 persons with a covering letter dated 24th October, 1966. This is in 
support of his contention that these 34 persons, who are juniors, were retained in 
service by the management In preference to the aggrieved workmen, who were 
seniors. No notice of this list can be taken at this stage. In a ruling reported In 
1966 LLJ (2) page 324 the Lordships of the Supreme Court have expressed their 
view on the principle of 'last come first go’ In these words: 

“The rule of “first come last go” is intended to secure an equitable treatment 
to the employees when, having regard to the exigencies of the business, 
it is necessary to retrench some employees. But in the application 
of the rule the inteests of the ubsiness cannot be overlooked. The 
rule has to be applied where other things are equal and the manage- 
ment act fairly to the employees. Where however the management 
bona fide retains staff possdssing special apptitude in the interests of 
the business, it cannot be assumed to have acted unfairly merely be- 
cause thfe rule “first come, last go” is not observed.” 

In the same ruling it has been further held 

“It is an accepted principle of industrial law that in ordering retrenchment 
ordinarily the management should commence with the latest recruit 
and progressively retrench employees higher up in the list of seniority. 
But this rule is not immutable and for valid reasons may be departed 
from.” 

The witness has suggested the names of certain workmen, who were retained in 
service in preference to them. Sri Mani, M.W. 1 showed with reference to the 



3616 lTi £ GAZETTE Ot’ INDIA: PfcCEMBEK. 24, 193G/PAUSA S 1888 [Part ll- 


Master Ledger that this was not correct. Strictly speaking, the names of these 34 
workmen should have been suggested to Sri Mani, M.w. 1 and his explanation 
should have been taken. In the absence of tins, no notice can be taken oi this list. 
Sri B. Narayanaswamy rightly contended that the industrial Truce Resolution refer- 
red to by the learned representative of the I Party has no legal binding effect. At 
best It Is only of a moral value. As a natural corollary to the above discussion, this 
issue is decided against the I Party. 

The next important point to be considered is, whether the retrenchment is pro- 
per and justified? This question revolves round the propriety of the introduc- 
tion of the conveyor belt by the management. Sri N. K- Upadhyaya argued witn a 
certain amount of motion that the management ought not to have in- 
troduced the conveyor belt for transporting crushed lime stone to the factory 
from the quarry, which the concerned workmen were ah along doing by means of 
tubs. They could have very well deferred this to a future date In view of tho pre- 
sent condition of the workmen, who have been so hard hit by soaring prices. In 
answer to this Shri B. Narayanaswamy replied with a certain amount of amphasis 
that our economy is changing, automation is coming in. It would be futile to 
stop it. The right of the management to rationalise the industry has been ac- 
cepted in several decisions of our High Court. In a labour force of more than 1000, 
the management have retrenched only 45 workmen after giving due considera- 
tion to the subject. They did so, when it was inevitable. The introduction oi 
conveyor belt was anticipated long before the retrenchment. The aggrieved 
workmen, who were working under a contractor were taken over by the manage- 
ment on the specific understanding that they would be letrenched when a con- 
veyor belt was introduced. They were also made permanent on the same under- 
standing. Now they cannot turn round and say that the management was not 
justified in terminating their services and that their action was not Justified. 
Annaji, W.W. 1, who is the star witness of the I Party admits it during the course 
of cross-examination that after the conveyor belt was installed there was no work 
for loading the tubs. 

Thus, it would be seen that the aggrieved workmen were rendered superfluous 
to requirement consequent to the introduction of the conveyor belt, From the 
evidence on record and on an overall consideration of the facts and circum- 
stances of the case, I hold that the retrenchment of the 45 workmen mentioned 
in the order of reference was proper and justified. 

AWARD 

It is held that the retrenchment by the management of the 45 workmen, men- 
tioned in the order of reference la proper and justified. They are not entitled 
to any relief. The parties shall bear their own costs. 

Place: Hubli. 

Date: 28-11-1906 

(Sd.) Syed Azizuddin Ahmed, 
Presiding Officer, Labour Court, Hubli 
Annexure 

Centra! Govt. Reference ( ID ) ( LCH ) No. 15/19665 
Witnesses examined for I Party} 

W.W, 1 , . Annaji Venkatesh Deshpande 

W.W.a . . . Vithal Govindappa 

W.W. 3 . , . Syed S/o Abdulkhadar 

W.W.4 . . . Shankarappa Dundappa 

Witnesses examined for 11 Party 

M.W. 1 . . . B.S. Mani 

M.W.2 . . . Shivaputrappa Sankarappa Hcbballi ’ 

Documents marked for I Party 

Exhibits : 

W — 1 . , . Temporary token of Sri A.V. Deshpnnde 

W — 2 . . . Permanent token of Sri A.V. Deshpande 

W— 3 . List of temporary workers who were in service upto 31-7-1C65 1 



8ec. 3 (H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 /PAPSA 3 , 1888 3617 


Documents marked for II Party 

True copy of letter signed and given by the retrenched workman 
, General notice of retrenchment dated 24-10-1964 
. Letter of retrenchment dated 24-10-1964 of Sri A.V. Deshpande . 
. Letter of retrenchment dated 24-10-1964 of Sri Vithal 
Govindappa. 

, Letter ot retrenchment dated 24-10-1966 of Sri S.A. Badami 
. Letter of retrenchment dated 24-10-1964 of Sri Shankarappa 
Dundappa. 

. Letter No. W/o Quarry/4-5162 dated 1-6-1962 addressed to Sri 
Murnal. 

. Ixtter No. W/o Quarrv/4-9103 dated 17/18-12-62. 

. File containing letter from employees dated 15-12-62. 

. Copy of Master Ledger of appointments. 

, Copy of notice of change doted 24-10-1964 
. 40 individual retrenchment letters dated 24-10-1964. 

(Sd-) Syed Az ztiDOtN Ahmrd, 

Presiding Officer, 

Labour Court, Hubli. 

[No. F. 36 / 32 / 65 /LRI.] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 13 th December 1966 

S.O, 3937 — -Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an Industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Canara Bank Limited and 
their workmen in respect of the matter specified in the Schedu’e hereto annexed. 

And, whereas the Central Governmnet considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 A and clause 
(d) of sub-section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947 ), the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of which 
Shri B. S. Somasundram shall be the r esiding Officer, with headquarters at 
Madras and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Tribunal. 

Schedule 

Considering his previous service and the present nature of work, whether 
Shri U. Surendra Shenoy is elegible for promotion to the post of 
Assistant Accountant without a written test. If so from what date 
he should be promoted as an Assistant Accountant? 

[No. 51 / 41 / 66 -L.R. IV.] 


M — 1 
M — 2 
M — 3 
M— 4 

M — 5 
M— 6 

M— 7 

M — 8 
M— 9 
M — 10 - . 
M— 11 
M — 12 

Place : Hubli 
Date: 28-11-1966. 


New Delhi, the 16 th December I 960 

1 *. 3 

S.O. 3938 — Whereas an Industrial dispute exists between the General Manager, 
Bhilai steel Plant of Hindustan Steel Limited, Bhilai, in relation to Rajhara Iron 
Ore Mines (hereinafter referred as the said Company) and their workmen repre- 
sented by the Khadan Mazdoor Congress. Rajhara, Post Offire Dalll — Rajhara. 
District Durg (hereinafter referred to as the Union); 

And, whereas, the said Company and the Union have by a written agreement, 
In pursuance of the provisions of sub-section ( 1 ) of section 10 A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947 ), agreed to refer the said dispute to arbitration of 
the person mentioned therein, and a copy of the said arbitration agreement has 
been forwarded to the Central Government; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of sub-section ( 3 ) of section 10 A 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947 ). the Central Government hereby 
publishes the said arbitration agreement, which was received by it on the 5th 

December, 1966 , 



3618 1HE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 24, 196G/TAUSA 3, 1888 |Part ll- 


Agreement 

(Under Section 10-A of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947) 

Between 

Representing the employers — 1. Shri L. J. Kale, Sr, Labour Officer (Mines) 
Bhilai Steel Plant. 

2, Shri S. Balakrishnan, Personnel Officer (Mines), Bhilai Steel Plant. 
Representing the workmen — Shri P. K. Sengupta, General Secretary, Khadan 
Mazdoor Congress. 

It Is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following industrial dispute 
to the arbitration of Shri D. Panda, Regional Labour Commissioner (Cetral), Jabal- 
pur, 

(I) Special matter in dispute.— In the light of the discussions between the parties 
before Shri P, N. Razdan, the then Regional Labour Commissioner (Central), 
Jabalpur on 31st May 1965 whether Shri S. Mukherjee, Chargeman, Rejhara Mines 
of Bhilai Steel Plant is entitled to promotion in the scale of Rs. 325 — 475, if so. ; 
from what date. 

(ii) Details of the parlies to the dispute. — General Manager, Bhilai Steel Plant 
of Hindustan Steel Ltd., Bhilai (Durg-MP), in relation to Rajhara Iron Ore Mines 
and their workmen represented by Khadan Mazdoor Congress, Dalli-Rajhara 
(Durg-MP). ) 

(ill) Name of the union representing the workmen in Question. — -Khadan 
Mazdoor Congress, Rajhara, P.O, Dalli-Rajhara (Distt. Durg M.P.): 

(iv) Total number of workmen employed in the under-taking affected.— -2300. 

(v) Number of workmen affected by the dispute . — 1. 

The Arbitrator shall make his award within a period of 9 months from this 
date or within such further time as extended by mutual agreement between us 
in writing. In case the Award is not made within the period aforesaid the re- 
ference to arbitration shall stand automatically cancelled and we shall be free 
to negotiate for fresh arbitration. 

(Sd.) P. K, Sengupta, 

(Sd.) L. J. Kale, 

29-10-66. 

Accepted 

(Sd.) S. Balakrishnan (Sd.) D. Panda, 

Witnesses Regional Labour Commissioner (Central) Jabalpur, 

1. (Sd.) K. N. Dixit, 

2. (Sd.) P. S. Nair, 

Bhilai 

29-10-06. 

[F. No. F. 37/13/66-LR-I.j 

S.O. 3939. — Whereas an industrial dispute between the State Bank of Patiala 
and Its workmen in respect of the matter specified In the Schedule hereto annexed 
was referrd for adjudication to Shri K, L. Gosain, Presiding Officer, Industrial 
Tribunal at Chandigarh by the Order of the Government of India in the late 
Ministry of Labour and Employment No. S.O. 4227 dated the 2nd December, 1964; 

And, wheTeas the award of the said Industrial Tribunal was published by the 
notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Labour and Em- 
ployment No. S.O. 850 dated the 6th March, 1965; 

And, whereas the High Court of Punjab by Its decision dated the 5th September, 
1966, has quashed the aforesaid award and has remanded the dispute for rehear- 
ing by the Industrial Tribunal and disposal In accordance with law; 

And, whereas the services of Shri K. L. Gosain have ceased to be available; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
(d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947). 
the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with Shri 
Ishwar Das Pa war as the Preside- " Officer with headquarters at Chandigarh and 
refers the said dispute to the said Industrial Tribunal for adjudication. 



Sec, 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966/PAUSA 3, 1888 


Schedule 

1. Whether the management of the State Bank of Patiala was justified in 

terminating the services of Shri Devinder Pal Verma (Clerk-qum- 
typist) with effect from the 3rd May 1963? 

2. If not, to what relief is the 'workman entitled? 

[No. F. 55(42)/66-LRIV.] 
A. L. HANDA, Under Secy. 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 13 th December 1966 

S.O. 3940. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section ( 1 ) of section 4 
of the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act. 1948 (9 of 1948). the Cen- 
tral Government hereby makes the following Scheme further to amend the Bom- 
bay Unregistered Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1967 the 
- same having been previously published as required by the said sub-section, 
namely: • — 

1. This Scheme may be called the Bombay Unregistered Dock Workers (Regu- 
lation of Employment) Amendment Scheme, 1966. 

2 . In the Bombay Unregistered Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) 
'Scheme, 1957, in clause 16, after sub-clause (3), the following sub-clause shall be 

inser ted, namely:- — 

“(4) An appellant shall not he entitled to be represented hy a legal practi- 
tioner before the appellate authority, but he shall be entitled to be 
represented bv a representative of the registered trade union of 
which he is a member or by a listed worker.”. 

[No. 630/2/66-Fae.I.] 

S.O. 3941. — -In exerr ; co o f the powers conferred bv sub-section (1) of section 4 
of the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act.. 1948 (9 of 1948) the Cen- 
tral Government her°bv make- the following Scheme further to amend the Madras 
Unregistered Dock Workers (Regulation of Emblovmentl Scheme, I9 r >7, the same 
having been previously published as required hy the said sub-section, namely: — 

1. This Scheme mnv be called the Madras Unregistered Dock Workers (Regu- 
lation of Employment) Amendment Scheme, 1966. 

2. In the Madras Unregistered Dock Workers (Regulation of Emplo-'unppt) 
Scheme. 1967, in clause 16, after .sub-clause (3), the fo’lowing sub -clause shall be 
inserted, namely: — 

"(4) An appellant shall not be entitled to be represented by a local practi- 
tioner before the appellate authority but Be shall be entitled to h« 
represented by a representative of the registered trade union of which 
he is a member or by a listed worker,”. 

[No. 830/2/60-Fac-2 ] 

S.O. 3942— In exercise of Iho powers conferred by s;uh-=.=ctinn (ii n f section 4 
of the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act, 1948. (9 of 1948) the Cen- 
tral Government, herebv makes the following Scheme further to emend th* Cal- 
cutta Unregistered Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme. 1957. the 
same having been previously published as required by the said suh-section. 
namely: — • 

1. This Scheme may be called the Calcutta Unregistered Dock Workers (Regu- 
lation of Employment) Amendment Scheme, 1966, 

2. In the Calcutta UnnerWercd Duck Workers (Regulation of Employment) 
Scheme 1957, in clause 16, after sub-clause (3), the following sub-clause sha 1 ! be 
inserted, namely: — 

“(4) An appellant shall not be entitled to be represented Uv 3 legal practi- 
tioner before the aooeBate authority but be shall be entitled to bp 
represented by a representative of the registered trade union of which 
be is a member or by a listed worker.”. 

[No, 630/2 /G6-Fac-3,1 
R. C. SAKSENA. Under Secy- 



3620 1HE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DEC. 24, 19ee/PAUSA 3, 1888 


[Part II— Sec. 4] 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi , the 14 th December 1966 

S.O. 3943. — In pursuance of Sub-section (1) of Section 14, Sub-section (1) of 
Section 15, Sections 16, 17 and 18 of the Personal Injuries (Compensation in In- 
surance) Act, 1983 (37 of 1063) the Central Government hereby authorises the 
Chief Inspector of Plantations. Assam appointed under Section 4(1) of the Plan- 
tations Labour Act, 1951 to exercise the powers under Sections 14, 15, 16, 17 and 
18 of the said Act throughout the State of Assam and Inspectors of Plantations, 
Assam, appointed under Section 4(1) of the Plantations Labour Act, 1951 to 
exercise the powers under Sections 14 and 15 of the said Act within their respec- 
tive jurisdiction, 

[No. 3/40/66-Spl. Fac. II.] 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi , the 14 th December 1966 

S.O. 3944. — In the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation No. S.O. 3416, dated the 1st November, 
1966 published in Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (ii) of the Gazette of India 
Extraordinary dated the 12th November, 1966; 

Please rend “Inspectors of Factories, Mysore State” in place of "Inspector 
of Factories, Mysore and 

“ Inspectors of Plantations, Mysore State”, in place of “Inspector of Planta- 
tions, Mysore.”. 

[No. 3/40/66-Spl. Fac. II.] 
N. N. CHATTERJEE. Jt. Secy. 


(Department of Labour & Employment) 

New Delhi, the 16th December 1966 

S.O. 3945. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to thp establishment known as 
Messrs Kir'oskar Consultants Limited, Elphinstone Road, Kirkee Poona-3 have 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of section 
1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
satd Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 1st day of 
April 1906. 

[No. 8(34)/66-PF.lI.] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 7th December 1966 

S.O. 3940.— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Emplopees' 
State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government, having regard 
to the seasonal nature of the industry carried on in the factory, he eby exempts, 
for a further period of one year with effect from the 1st January, 1967, every fac- 
tory which is exclusively engaged in wool pressing either with or without cotton 

f iressing and ginning, from the payment of the employers’ special contribution 
eviable under Chapter VA of the said Act. 

, [No, F.7(10)/66-Hl,] 

DALJIT SINGH, Under Secy. 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 17 th December 19G6 

S.O. 3947. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (1) of article 258 of 
the Constitution and in supersession of the notification of the Government of India 
In the late Ministry of Labour No. S. R. O. 877, dated the 4th March, 1954, the 



Smo. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA . DECEMBER 24, 1960/PAIJ&A 3, 1868 3611 


President hereby entrusts to the Government of Mysore, with their consent, the 
functions of the Central Government under the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 
(11 of 1948), in so far as such functions relate to the fixation, review and revision 
of minimum rates of wages fixed under the said Act for employees engaged in 
stone-breaking or stone-crushirvg operations carried on in any quarry situated 
within the State of Mysore, 

[No. LWI-1-2 (21) /65.] 

S.O. 3948 — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section (1) 
of section 3, read with clause (iii) of sub-section (1) of section 4, and sub-section 
(2) of section 5, of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 (11 of 1948), the Central 

Government hereby fixes the minimum rates of wages payable to certain catego- 
ries of employees employed on a contract basis on the construction or mainte- 
nance of roads or in building operations and in stone breaking or stone crushing 
undertaken by the Indian Institute of Technology, Hijli Kharagpur specified in 
the Schedule annexed hereto, the same having been previously published as 
required by clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 5 of the said Act, and directs 
that this notification shall come Into force on and from the 16th January 1967. 

Schedule 


Categories of employees 
employed on a contract basis 
Unskilled 


All inclusive minimum 
rates of wakes per day 


Mazdoor adult (female) Rs. 1.80 

Mazdoor adolescent Rs. 1.60 

Mazdoor Child Rs. 1.36 


Note:— The rates of wages indicated above shall be exclusive of the wage due 
For the weekly day of rest. 

[No, LWI-l-7<9)/86.) 
O. P. TALWAR, Under Secy 



BONIS TRY OF EDUCATION 

Nets Delhi, the Ijti December 1966 

S. 0 . 3949. — WHEREAS the Central Government is of opinion that, by reason of their historical or archaeological importance, itii desirable to preserve 
the antiquities mentioned in the notifications of the Government of India in theMiwstryofEducationNos.S.O. 2405,2406 andz^oy dated the 2nd August, 
1966 issued under sub-section (1) of SectlonasoftheAncientMontiinentsandArchaeotogicalSitesandRemains Act, 1958 (24 of 1958) and specified in the 
Schedule below, in a public place ; 

Now, THEKHVORE, in pursuance of sub- section (1) of section 26 of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1958 (24 of 
1958) the Central Government hereby orders that the said antiquities shall be purchased compulsorily at their market value. 

THE SCHBDULE 


Serial State 

No. 

1 2 


District Tehsil Locality Description of antiquity Ownership 

3 4 5 6 7 


Remarks 


1 

ll 


8 


1 Madhya Pradesh 

Satna 

Nagod 

Near Village 
Pataora. 

The sculpture shows a 
prince seated and pla- 
ying on a Vina and two 
men dancing. It bears 
two inscriptions in the 
Brahmi script of Sunga 
period, which read res- 
pectivdy. Vamboma- 
noavaye sa Jatakam and 
vedisa ayatnaya dana 
rana. 

Shri Lai Singh and Shri 
Gopal Singh, local 
Thakurs of village Pat- 

aura. 

Originally from Bharhut, 
the sculpture is now 

studded as a beam 

over two pi liars of the 

chhatn on the outskirts 
of village Pataora. The 
sculpture has been 

published by Gen. 

Cunningham in Stupa 
of Bharhut , plate 26 
figure 8. 

2 Madhya Pradesh 

Satua 

Nagod 

Bhatanwara 

A rail piliar with a central 
medallion presenting a 
royal group or assembly 
and a horse, with the 
half medallion on tap 
showing a woman just 
above a curtain. On 
the other side of the 
pillar the half meda- 
llion presents a similar 
pattern but a man subs- 
tituting the woman. 

Disputed sculptures clai- 
med by the following 
brothers Urmila Pra- 
tap Singh, Virendra 
Pratap Singh, Kanwar 
Shri Prstap Singh and 
Vi jay Pratap Singh. 

Originally from Bharhut, 
these sculptures are 
now fitted into the 
masonry' of the Garhi at 
Bhatanwara, wherein 

Shri Urmila Pratap 

Singh is now residing. 


3622 1H£ GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER W, 1906/PAUSA S, 1889 [Past U- 


3 Madhya Pradesh 


4 Madhya Pradesh 


and the Central me- 
dallion shows a scene 
of a prince shooting 
in the sky. Above 
this is an inscription in 
Brahmi script of the 
Sujlga period j mor- 
giiamijat mitasadana. 

Size 90'ix 12-i/ifx 
10- 1/2'. 

. Satna Nagod Bhatanwara A rail pillar showing a As above Aa above. 

rider on horse-fish 
in the central medallion 
on one side and on 
the other two crabs 
clutching two men. 

There is also an ins- 
cription in Brahmi 
script of the Sunga 
period, which reads 1 
Karahakata utaraga- 
dhikasa thabhoda. 

Size 6 S-i/ 2 'xu-i/ 2 ' 

XI2*. 

Satna Nagod Bhatanwara A coping piece with cen- ; As above. As above. 

tral portion well pre- 
served, showing in the 
bighU of the KalpdvalH, 
mountain climbers and 
elaborate Kanthi, or 
necklet and earrings 
both circular ones and 
along karanavtshtnvi . 

Towards one end, 
the tail of an elephant 
is visible though the 
rest of the figure has 
been chiselled off for 
using the piece as a 
beam. This is also 
fixed as beam over ca- 
pitals of two pillars. 

Size 56 'J£i 2 'xi 3 -i/ 2 '. 


Sic. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966/P AUSA S, 1B88 362 3 


5 Madhyi Pradesh , Satna 


* Mskihya Pradesh Satn* 


Nagod Bhatanwara A coping piece, covered As above. 

with accumulated dirt 
and dust but showing 
a series of lotuses and 
a row of bells, a 
common motif at Bhar- 
tnit. Size 7i'Xi3-t/4* 

13-1/2'. 

Nagod Bhatatrrwara Octagonal shaft of a As above, 

pillar with an inscription 
in three lines in Brahmi 
script of Sunga period 
which reads : Suganara 
Agartja torana. Size 
?«'. 


As above. 


7 Delhi 


National 
Muaeum , New 
Delhi. 


A rectangular panel from 
Bharhut depicting the 
relics of Buddha being 
carried on an elephant 
after the division of 
relics. It is in two 
fragments. Size of left 
hand piece: 48-3/4'x 
11-1/2'. Size of right 
h*nd piece: 5a- 3/4' > 
11-1/2'. 


Shri B. P. Sharma, 34, 
South Patel Nagar. 
New Delhi. 


As above. 


The panel for the 
purchase of which the 
National Museum is 
negotiating, is said 
to have been purchased 
by Shri B. P. Sharma 
from Shri Urmjla Pratap 
Singh, now residing 
in the Garhi at Bhatan- 
wara, Tehsil Nagod, 
District Satna, Madhya 
Pradesh . 


[No. F.8-20/66 (C.2>— CAI (5).J 
A.S. T A I .WAR, Under Secy. 


VRtKTSD ns INDIA *Y THS Q*HERAL MANAGIR, GOVERKMEITT OT INDIA PRSS6, 

n*w mJB and rutLtaam bt tbs manage* or rv»ucATtoHs, snnt, 1996 


3524 1 HI GAZETTE OF INDIA; DECEMBER Z 4 , IWW/PAUSA S, lgS8 [Pa*t 11 - 



