एमिली . 10 222 


NEGISTERED No. D . 222 


SECRETARIA 


RIAT 
LIA 


भारतको राजपत्रा ACRETAN 
The Gazette of India 6,23 xOy 1972 


TRAL SE 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


सं . 43]] 
No. 430 


नई दिल्ली, शनिवार, अक्टूबर 21, 1972/ आश्विन 29, 1894 
NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 21 , 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


इस भाग में भिन्न पृष्ठ संख्या दी जाती है जिससे कि यह अलग संकलन के रूप में रखा जा सके । 
Separate paging is given to this part in order that it may be filed 

as a separate compilation 


- 


- 


- 


- 


भाग II - खण्ड - उपखण्ड ( i ) 
PART II - Section 3 - Sub-section ( ii ) 


( रक्षा मंत्रालय को छोड़कर ) भारत सरकार के मंत्रालयों और ( संघ क्षत्र प्रशासन को छोड़कर ) 

केन्द्रीय प्राधिकरनों द्वारा जारी किये गए विधिक आदेश और अधिसूचनाएं । 
Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Government of India 
(other than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central Authorities ( other than the 

Administration of Union Territories.) 


MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATION 

___ ( P . & T. Board ) 


New Delhi , the 12th October 1972 


S. 0. 28TE-In pursuance of nara( a ) of Sention III of 
Rule 434 of Indian Telegraph makes antroduced 
by s. o. No. 627 , dated 8th March, 1960 , the Director 
General, Posts and Telegraphs, hereby specifies the 16th 
November , 1972, as the date on which the Measured 
Rate system will be introduced in Palanpur Telephone 
EExchange , Gujrat Circle . 


संचार विभाग 

( डाक - तार बोर्ड ) 
नई दिल्ली , 12 अक्तूबर 1972 
स्थायी आदेश 285 1. -- स्थायी आदेश संख्या 627 , 
दिनांक 8 मार्च 1960 द्वारा लागू किए गए भारतीय तार नियम , 
195 1 के नियम 434 के खण्ड III के पैर ( क ) के अनुसा : 
डाक -तार महानिदेशक ने पालनपुर टेलीफोन केन्द्र में दिनाक 
16 - 11- 72 से प्रमाणित दर प्रणाली लाग करने का निश्चय 
किया है । 


[ संख्या 5 - 6/ 72-पी०एच०बी०] 


INo. 5 - 6 / 72- PHB. ] 

4291 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29, 1894 


[PART I 


4292 


New Delhi, the 13th October 1972 


S : 0 , 2852 . - In pursuance of para (a ) of Section III of 
Rüle 434 of Indian Telegraph Rules, 1951, as introduced 
by S.Ó . NO. 627, dated ģth March , 1960, the Director 
General, Posts and Telegraphs, hereby specifies the 
16th November , 1972 , as the date on which the Measur 
ed Rate System will be introduced in Bharananganam 
excha ige connected with Palai Telephone System , 
Kerala Circle . 


the following persons to be members of the Develop 
ment Council for the scheduled Industries engaged in 
the manufacture and production of Automobiles , Auto 
mobile Ancillary Industries, Transport Vehicle Indus 
tries. Tractors, Earth moving Equipment and 
Internal Combustion Engines in place of members 
and Internal Combustion Engines in place of members 
appointed under the Government of India in the late 
Ministry of Industrial Development and Company 
Affairs (Department of Industrial Development) Order 
No. S .O . 3243 - IDRA / 6 / 16 , dated the 10th September , 
1970 , as amended from time to time, whose tenure of 


[ No . 5-38 / 72 -PHB (17 ).1 


A . S . VOHRA , 
Assistant Director General ( PHB ) . 


Development Council for Automobiles , Automobile 

Ancillary Industries , Transport Vehicles Indus 
tries, Tractors and Earth Moving Equipment 
and Internal Combustion Engines. 


Chairman . 


pro foront, 13 47927 1972 


1 . Shri T . S . Krishna , Chairman - M / s . TVS 

Lucas Ltd ., 37 , Mount Road , Madras-6 . 


Ashok Ley and Ltd ., Ennore, Madras . 


3 . Shri J. S . Talaulicar , Chief Executive, M / s . 

Tata Engineering and Locomotive Co ., Ltd ., 
24 , Bruce Street, Fort, Bombay . 


et ATK 2852 .---- FITT ATT HETT 627, 
feria 8 AT 1960 TT TT fafi torante att fira , 
1951 of fifth 434 # que III # À2T (F ) # THT 
डाक -तार महानिदेशक ने भरनंगलम टेलीफोन केन्द्र में पलाई 
24791 gott Rot Hoit à pet g feria 16 - 11- 72 
से प्रमाणित दर प्रणाली लागू करने का निश्चय किया है । 


4 . Shri K . V . Sardesai, Chief Executive ( Jeep Divi . 

sion ) , M / s . Mahindra and Mahindra Ltd ., Gate 
way Building, Apollo Bunder, Bombay - 1 . 


5 . Shri N . K . Firodia , Chairman, M / s . Bajaj Tempo 

Lid ., Chinchwad , Poona . 


6 . Shri S . L . Bhatter, President, M / s. Hindustan 

Motors Ltd ., P . O . Uttarpara , Distt . Hooghly , 
West Bengal 


[FO 5-38) 72--Torzoato ( 17 ) ] 


7 . Shri M . S . Shastri, Executive Director, M / s . 

Automobile Products of India Ltd ., Bombay . 


TO TETO ATERT, 
सहायक महानिदेशक (पी०एच०बी० ) । 


8 . Snii B . R . Sule , Executive Director, International 

Tractors Ltd ., C / 0 . M / s . Mahindra and Mahin 
dra Ltd ., Gateway Building , Apollo Bunder , 
Bumbay. 


y . Shri V . T . Velu , Chairman , M / s . V . S . T . Tillers 

Ltd ., 22 , Mahatma Gandhi Road , Bangalore - 1 . 
10 . Shri C . S . Kirloskar , Managing Director , M / s. 

Kirloskar Cummins Ltd ., Kothrud , Poona- 1 , 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT 


ORDER 


11. Maj. Gen . O . M . Mani, Managing Director , M / s . 

Bharat Earthmovers Ltd ., Kolar Gold Fields, 
Mysore. (Government undertaking) . 


New Delhi, the 11th October 1972 


12 . Smt. Sharayu A . Daftary , M / s. Standard Radia 

tors Ltd . , Bombay . 


13 . Dr. Pranlal Patel, Chairman , M / s. Malleable 

Iron and Steel Castings Co . Pvt ., Ltd ., Mathur 
das Mills Compounci, Lower Parel, Bombay . 


S . O . 2853. - IDRA /6 / 16 .- In exercise of the powers 
conferred by Section 6 of the Industries (Development 
and Regulation ) Act, 1951, read with rules 2 , 4 and 5 
of the Development Councils (Procedural) Rules 1952 , 
the Central Government hereby appoints, for a period 
of two years with effect from the date of this Order. 


14 . Shri M . K . Jhawar, Managing Director , M . 

Usha Automobile and Engg., Pvt., Ltd ., 17. 
Princep St: eet , Calcutta - 13 . 


SEC . 3( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4293 


- 


अध्यक्ष 


1. श्री टी०एस० कृष्ण 

अध्यक्ष - - मैसर्स टी०वी०एस - ल्युकाज लिमिटेड , 
37, माउण्ट रोड, मद्रास - 6 


2. श्री के०एस० रामास्वमी , 

महाप्रबन्धक , 
मैसर्स अशोक लीलैण्ड लिमिटेड, इन्नर, 
मद्रास 


15 . Shri Kundan Lal, Secretary General, All India 

Motor Union Congress , 16 - A , Asaf Al Road , 

New Delhi. 
16 . Shri N . Mahalingam , Chairman , Anamalai Bus 

Transports Ltd ., ( A . B . T . ) , Pollachi, Coimba 

tore Distt., Tamil Nadu . 
17. Shri K . N . Talwar, President, Federation of 

Auto - Dealers Association , 534 , Vallabh Bhai 

Patel Road, Bombay - 7. 
18 . Shri G . S . Sethi, President, Federation of All 

India Auto Spare Parts Dealers Association , 

3620, Netaji Subhas Marg, New Delhi - 6 . 
19 . Shri R. S . Boga, General Manager ( Administra 

tion) , CEAT Tyres of India Ltd., Bhandup. 

Bombay - 78. 
20 . Shri M . W . Pradhan , General Manager , BEST , 

Bombay . 
21 . Shri Y . S . Venkateswaran, Deputy Director 

General, Indian Standards Institute, Manak 
__ Bhawan, 9 , Bahadur Shah Jafar Marg , New 

Delhi . 
22. Shri K. . . . 

2 . nent Commis 
sioner, . . 

Nirman Bha 
wan, New Delhi . 
23 . Dr. S . P . Luthra , Director, Indian Institute of 
Technology, 29 - Haus Khas, New Delhi , 

Secretary 
Shri B .S . V . Rao, Development Officer ( Auto . ) , — 
D .G . T . D . Udyog Bhawan , New Delhi- 11 . 

[ No . 1 ( 111 ) / 72 - A. E.I. ( I) . ] 


3. श्री जे०एस० तलौलीकर , 

मुख्य कार्यपालक , 
मैसर्स ट टा इंजीनियरिंग एण्ड लोकोमोटिव 
कम्पनी लिमिटड , 
24, बस स्ट्रीट , फोर्ट , 

मुम्बई 
4. श्री के०वी० सरदेसाई, 

मुख्य क र्यपालक ( जीप डिवीजन ) , 
मैसर्स महिन्द्र एण्ड महिन्द्र लिमिटेड , 
गेटवे बिल्डिग , अपोलो बन्दरा , 
मुम्बई - 1 


5. श्री एनके ० फिरोडिया 
अध्यक्ष , 
मैसर्स बजाज टैम्पो लिमिटेड , 
चिन्चवाड , पूना 


V . P . GUPTA , Under Secy . 
औद्योगिक विकास मंत्रालय 

आदेश 
नई दिल्ली, 11 अक्टूबर 1972 
का०मा० 2853 . -- आई डी आर ए / 6 / 16 - - विकास परिषद 
( प्रक्रियात्मक ) नियम , 1952 के नियम 2, 4 और 5 के साथ 
पठित उद्योग ( विकास और विनियमन ) अधिनियम , 1951 की 
धारा 6 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार 

ऑटोमोबाइल , ऑटोमोबाइल अनुषंगी उद्योग , परिवहन 
यान उद्योग , ट्रैक्टरों अर्थमूविंग उपस्कर और अन्तर्दहन इंजिनों 
के विनिर्माण और उत्पादन में लगे हुए अनुसूचित उद्योगों के लिए 
विकास परिषद् के सदस्यों के रूप में निम्नलिखित व्यक्तियों को 
भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व प्रौद्योगिक विकास और कम्पनी कार्य 
मंत्रालय ( प्रौद्योगिक विकास विभाग ) के समय - समय पर यथा 
संशोधित आदेश सं०का०या० 3243 - आई०डी०पार ०ए०/ 6 / 16 
तरीख 10 सितम्बर, 1970 के अधीन नियुक्त उन सदस्यों , 
जिनकी पदावधि समय के बीत जाने से या अन्यथा समाप्त हो चुकी 
है, के स्थान पर इस आदेश की तारीख से दो वर्ष की अवधि के लिए 
एतद्द्वारा नियुक्त करती है : --- 


6. श्री एस०एल० भट्ट , 

अध्यक्ष , 
मैसर्स हिन्दुस्तान मोटर्स लिमिटेड, 
डाकघर उत्तरपारा, जिला हुगली, 

पश्चिमी बंगाल 
7. श्री एम०एस० श स्त्री , 

कार्यपालक निदेशक , 
मैसर्स ऑटोमोबाइल प्रोडक्ट्स आफ इण्डिया लिमिटड , 


8. श्री एस०आर० सुले , 
कार्यपालक निदेशक , 
इण्टरनेशनल ट्रैक्टर्स लिमिटेड , 
मार्फत मैसर्स महिन्द्र एण्ड महिन्द्र लिमिटेड , 
गेटवे बिल्डिंग , अपोलो बन्दर, 

मुम्बई 
9. श्री बी०टी० वेलु , अध्यक्ष , 
मैसर्स वी०एस० टी टिलर्स लिमिटेड , 
22, मह त्मा गांधी रोड, 
बंगलौर-- - 1 


यान उद्योग , ट्रैक्टरों , अर्थ मूविंग उपस्कर, अन्तर्दहन इंजिनों के 
लिए विकास परिषद् 


4294 THE GAZETTE OP INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 

Purn 
- - - - - -- 
10. श्री सी०एम०किर्लोस्कर , 

19. श्री पार०एस० बोगा, 
प्रबन्ध निदेशक , 

मिहाप्रबन्धक ( प्रशासन ), 
मैसर्स किर्लोस्कर कम्मिन्स लिमिटेड, 

[सिएट टायर्स माफ इण्डिया लिमिटर, भाण्डप. 
कोठरूद, पून - 1 । 

मुम्बई-- 781 
11. मेजर जनरल श्रो०एम० मानी , 

20. श्री एम०डब्ल्यू . प्रधान , 
प्रबन्ध निदेशक , 

महा प्रबन्धक: बेस्ट , 
मैसर्स भारत अर्थमवर्स लिमिटेड, 

मुम्बई ।। 
कोलार गोल्ड फोल्ड्स , मैसूर , 

21. श्री बाई ० एस० वेंकटेश्वरन , 
( सरकारी उपक्रम ) । 

उप-महानिदेशक , 
12. श्रीमती शरायु ए० दफ्तरी , 

इण्डियन स्टैण्डर्स इंस्टिट्यूट , 
मैसर्स स्टैण्डड रेडिएटर्स लिमिटेख, 

मानक भवन , 
मुम्बई । 

9. बहादुरशाह जफर मार्ग, 
13. डा० प्राणलाल पटेल, अध्यक्ष , 

नई दिल्ली । 
मैसर्स मैलिएबिल पाइरन एण्ड स्टील कास्टिग कम्पनी , 

22. श्री के० एल० नम्जप्पा , 
प्राइवेट लिमिटेड, 
मथरा वास मिल्स कम्पाउण्ड, लोअर परेल , 

विकास प्रायुक्त , 

लघु उद्योग, 
मुम्बई । 

निर्माण भवन , नई दिल्ली । 
14. श्री एम०के० झावर, 
प्रबन्ध निदेशक , 

23. डा० एस०पी० लूपरा , 
मैसर्स ऊषा प्रॉटोमोबाइल एण्ड इंजीनियरिंग , 

निदेशक , 
प्राइवेट लिमिटेड , 

इण्डियन इंस्टीट्यूट प्राफ टेक्नॉलाजी , 
14 -प्रिन्सेप स्ट्रीट , 

29. हौज खास, नई दिल्ली । 
कलकत्ता -- 13 । 

सचिव 
15. श्री कुन्दन लाल, 

श्री बी०एस०बी० राव , 
महासचिव , 

विकास अधिकारी ( माटो ), 
पाल दण्डिय मोटर यानियन कांग्रेस , 

डी०जी०टी०डी० उद्योग भवन , 

नई दिल्ली -11 । 
12- 1 T मम अनी रोड, नई दिल्ली । 

[सं० 1 ( 211 )/ 72- ए०ई०प्राइ०1) , 
16. श्री एन० महालिंगम 
अध्यक्ष, 

वी०पी० गुप्ता , 
अन्नामलाई बस ट्रांसपोर्ट लिमिटेड ( ए०बी०टी० ) , 

प्रवर सचिव । 
पोल्लची कोयम्बटर मिला , 
तामिलनाडु । 

DEPARTMENT OF COMPANY AFFAIRS 
17. श्री के ०एन० तलवार , 

New Delhi, the 11th October 1972 
अध्यक्ष, 

S . 0 . 2854. - In pursuance of sub - section ( 3 ) of Section 
फैट " प्रॉफ प्रॉटोडोलर्स एसोसिएशन , 

26 of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices 

Act, 1969 (54 of 1969 ) , the Central Government hereby 
524, वल्लभ भाई पटेल रोड , 

notifies the cancellation of the registration of : 

( 1) M / s . Steel and Allied Products Limited (Certi 
मुरबई- 7 । 

ficate of registration No . 697 / 1971 dated the 

22nd February , 1971 ) . 
18. श्री जी०एस० संठी, 

( 2 ) M / s . Anglo American Marine Company Limit 
अध्यक्ष, 

ed (Certificate of registration No . 851 / 72 dated 

the 31st May , 1972) . 
फैडरेशन आफ आल इण्डिया प्रॉटो स्पेयर पार्टस डीलसं 
एसोसिएशन , 

under the said Act. 
3620 नेताजी सुभाष मार्ग, 

[ No. F . 22 / 31 / 72- M. II .: 
नई दिल्ली - 6 । 

S. BALARAMAN, Under Secy 


Sec . 3( 1) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


429 $ 


कम्पनी कार्य विभाग 
to farefit, 11 qer , 1972 


AWARD 
By Order No. L -32011 / 12 / 71 - P & D , dated 28th Octo 
ber , 1971, the Government of India , in the Ministry 
of Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment ) , referred the following industrial 
dispute existing between the employers in relation to 
the management of Messrs S . A . Aziz and Company , 


adjudication , namely : 


" Whether the demand for employment of Shri S . 

Mandal Warsi as Watchman Supervisor under 
Messrs S . A . Aziz and Company, Calcutta is 
justifled ? If so , to what relief, is the workman 
entitled ? " 


ei o9T0 2854 . - -fffirit ta fraFort 1977 
front affah 1969 ( 1969 FT 54 ) #7 STUT 26 #7 
39- *** ( 3 ) TETUT # # estet Apaita Taart yh 
अधिनियम के अन्तर्गत निम्नांकित पंजीकरणों का विलोपन , प्रधि 
para A :- - 
(1 ) # o feitas qus fe moueat fato, 

(Hoflancur TATT Tao 697/ 1971 

fanta 22 4rt, 1971) 
( 2 ) # Det af # TEATRO Foto , 

(PFERUT SATT TA PO 851/72 fatih 
31 F 1972 ) 

[FO 22 /31/ 72 -94 . ( 2 )] 
एस० :बलरामन , प्रवर सचिव । 


2. To - day when the case was called on for hearing , 
the management and the union representing the work 
man fled a memorandum of compromise duly signed 
by the Manager of the management and the General 
Secretary of the union concerned as well as by the 
workman concerned and stated that the parties have 
settled the dispute amicably . The terms of compro 
mise appear to be fair , equitable and beneficial to the 
workman . The terms are , therefore, recorded and an 
award is rendered in terms of the compromise petition 
which shall form part of the award . 


( Sd .) S . N . BAGCHI , 


Dated , 29th Sept. 1972 . 


Presiding Officer. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND REHABILITATION 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUS 

TRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 

REFERENCE No . 111 OF 1971 
In the matter of an Industrial dispute between the 
management of M / s. S . A . Aziz & Co ., 

AND 
Workman Sri S . Mondal Warshi. 

The humble joint petition of compromise of the 
ubove named parties most respectfully 
SHEWETH ; 


New Delhi, the 10th October 1972 


S . O . 2855 . - In pursuarice of section 17 of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central Gov 
ernment hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal at Calcutta , 
in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the management of Messrs S . A . Aziz and 
Company , Calcutta and their workmen , which was 
received by the Central Government on the 4th Octo 
ber , 1972 . 


( 1 ) That without prejudice to their respective 

merits and contentions, the parties have 
amicably settled their dispute and differences 
which gave rise to the instant reference on 

the following terms: 
( A ) That the employer company will engage 

Sri S . Mondal Warshi as Watchman Super 
visor as and when working ghips are 
available . 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 

TRIBUNAL AT CALCUTTA 
REFERENCE No . 111 of 1971 


( B ) That the workman will not press for the 

back wages and shall have no other claim 


PARTIES : 


Employers in relation to the management of 
Mesers S . A . Aziz and Company, Calcutta , 

AND 
Their workmen , 
PRESENT; 

Sri S , N . Bagchi-- Presiding Officer . 
APPEARANCES : 
On behalf of Employers - Sri R . N . Chatterjee, 

Manager 


reference, 
In the circumstances the parties pray that the 
terms of the above compromise and treating this joint 
petition as a part of the award , 

And for this act of kindness the petitioners as in 
duty bound shall ever pray . 
S . MONDAL WARSHI 

RAMNARAYAN CHATTERJEM , 
Concerned Workman . 

Manager , 
Witness P . SEN . 
Dnted , September 29 , 1972 

[No. L -32011 / 12 /72 - P & D .) 
V . SANKARALINGAM , Under Secy , 


On behalf of Workmen - Sri P . Sen , General Sec 

retary , Dock Mazdoor Union , 
STATE ; West Bengal 

INDUẾTRY : Port & Dock 


4296 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II 


- 


- 


Ver 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 


fied and legal; and if not to what relief the 
13id - off workmen are entitled ? 


New Delhi, the 10th October 1972 


S . 
No. 


Form 

B No . 


Name 


Designation 


S . O . 2856 In pursuance of section 17 of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central Gov 
ernment hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 2 ) . 
Dhanbad in the industrial dispute between the em 
ployers in relation to the management of Pyrites , 
Phosphates and Chemicals Limited , Post Office 
Amjhore , District Shahabad ( Bihar ) and their work 
men , which was received by the Central Government 
on the 4th October , 1972. 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUS 

TRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO . 2 ) AT DHANBAD 


PRESENT: 


I 2288 Shri Motilal Choudhry Loader Operator 
2 2350 , SaguniChoudhry 

Do . 
3 2153 , Bihari Singh . S . Car / L . Operator 
4 2377 , RamKeshwar Singh Ls. 0 . Car Operator 

II 
5 2168 Dhup Narain Singh L . Operator 
6 2054 Halim Mian . S .Car Operator 
7 2283 Nagina Singh . L . Operato 
8 2136 Rajdew Ram No. II S .Car Operator 
9 2269 Bishwanath Yadav - II L . Operator 
IO 2212 Mohan Chaudhary S . Car Operator 
II 2085 Kadar Singh 

S .Car Operator 
12 2219 RaghuniChaudharyII S .Car Operator 
13 2427 » Rahim Khan . L . Operator 
14 2031 „ Md. Islam . S . Car Operator 
15 2021 Mukgdeo Singh . S .Car Operator 
16 2095 » Ram Charitar Singh L . Operator 
17 2169 » Bihsun Choudhary L . Operator 
18 2230 5 Ram CharitarSingh 

Do . 
2473 Niaz Ahammad . S . Cal. Operator 
20 2783 S . P . Chauras a 

Do . 
21 3282 , Satyanarayan Pandey 
22 2799 » A .N .G . Nair . Do 
23 2735 Bisheshwar Singh . Do 
24 2268 , Ram Keshwar Chou 
dhry 

. S . Car Operator 


Shri Nandagiri Venkata Rao, Presiding Officer . 


REFERENCE NO. 49 OF 1971 


In the matter of an industrial dispute under S . 10 ( 2 ) 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. : 


19 


PARTIES : 


Do. 


Employers in relation to Pyrites Phosphates and 

Cherr : ro : Timur . Post Office Amjhore, Dis 
trict S ! :: : 3 : ? 13 :1: 2 " ) . 


AND 


Their workmen . 


APPEARANCES : 


On behalf of the employers - Shri S . S . Mukherjee , 

Advocate . 
On behalf of the workmen - None. 
STATE : Bihar. 

INDUSTRY : Chemical. 
Dhanbad , 30th September 1972 

AWARD 


On the joint application of the employers in relation 
to Pyrites. Phosphates and Chemicals Limited , Post 
Office Amjhore District Shahabad and their workmen 
represented by Rashtriya Pyrites Mazdoor Sangh , 
Amjhore , and on being satisfied that the said Rash 
triva Pyrites Mazdoor Sangh represents the majority 
of the said workmen , the Central Government in exer 
cica of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of Sec 
tion 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 referred the 
industrial dispute existing between the parties, men 
tionen in the schedule for adjudication to this Tribunal 
constituted under S .7A of the said Act by its order No . 
L .- 29011 / 1 / 71 - LR . IV . The schedule is reproduced 
below : 


2 . The employers as well as the workmen filed their 
statement of demands. After filing their written state 
ment through Shri R . K . Jha, Vice President, Rash 
triya Pyrites Mazdoor Sangh on 22nd October 1971, 
the workmen chose to remain absent inspite of 
adjourning the case on five hearings . Hence , the case 
had to proceed in accordance with Rule 22 of the In 
dustrial Disputes ( Central) Rules , 1957 . Arguments 
were heard in the case on 7th June 1972 and till : today 
also no one appeared for the workmen . The employers 
were represented by Shri S . S . Mukherjee , Advocate 
and on their behalf a witness was examined and Exts . 
M1 to M4 were marked . The dispute referred to is in 
respect of the employers laying off 24 shuttlecar and 
loader operators with effect from 17th October 1970 . 
According to the employers the management had de 
ployed shuttle car and loaders for the drivage of their 
roadways , 6 working sets being in use and 3 kept as 
spares during the course of working it was found 
that the geological conditions did not permit the equip 
ment for proper and suitable use , and as such 
shuttlecar and loaders could not be used to their full 
capacity , the board of directors appointed a technical 
committee in order to achieve the aim of fast driv 
age and the committee recommended to limit the use 
of the equipment and as such the use of shuttlecars 
and loaders was limited to 2 working sets and the re 
maining equipment was ordered to be taken out of 
the mine temporarily , the management for this 
reason had to lay off the 24 shuttlecar and loader 
operators under S .25 ( C ) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act , 1947 and they were paid lay off compensation as 
per the Act and , therefore the lay off of the 24 , work 
men for 41 days from 17th October 1970 . was legal and 
justified . The workmen filed their statement pleading 
that the management had erred in two aspects of the 
dispute - ( 1 ) in laying off workmen for insufficient 
grounds and ( 2 ) in choosing the names of the onera 
tors for laying off from duty . According to the work 
men the management, if at all they had to lay on some 


SCHEDULE 


" Whother the action of the management of Pyrites , 

Phosphates and Chemicals Limited , Post 

fice Amjhore, District Shahabad ( Bihar) , 
in Taving off the following twenty - four 

tla car and Loader Operators from 17th 
October, 1970 to 7th December. 1970 is justi, 


ŠEc . 30 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29 , 1894. 


4297 


S . 0 .2857 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Gov - . 
ernment hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal Dibrugarh in the industrial dis 
pute between the employers in relation to the man 
agement of Messrs Assam Oil Company Limited , 
Digboi and their workmen , which was received by 
the Central Government on the 29th September , 1972 . 


workmen , they ought to have done in accordance 
with Section 20G of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
by adopting tne principle of " first come last go " . 
Thus, accoruing to ine workmen the laying off of the 
24 arfected workmen was illegal and unjustified . Ext. 
MI is the extract from the minutes of the board of 
directors of the employers held on 11th April 1968, 
constitutiigine technical advisory Committee to 
examine the project report for production of 1 .0 / 0 .5 
million tonne of pyrites per annum . Ext . M2 is the 
extract from the recommendations of the technical 
advisory Committee fixing the size of trunk road at 
approximately 3 .70m x 2 .75 m . Ext. M3 is the office 
order from the office of Mines Manager and dated 15th 
October 1970 stating that the use or shuttlecars and 
loaders in the mining project having been restricted 
to 2 sets, the 24 affected workmen are laid off with 
effect from 17th October 1970 . Ext. M4 is the covering 
letter from the Chief Mining Engineer dated 22nd 
October 1970 to the Regional Labour Commissioner 
( C ) Dhanbad enclosing therewith the information of 
lay off . MW . 1 is the under manager of the employers 
since May , 1967. It is in his evidence that there were 
a total of 9 sets of shuttlecar and loaders of which 0 
were working sets and 3 stand by , that since the 


IN THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 

TRIBUNAL , ASSAM AT DIBRUGARH 


PRESENT: 


Shri G . N . Borah , M . A ., LL . B ., Barrister - at- law , 


trial Tribunal, Assam , Dibrugarn . 
In the matter of an industrial dispute between : - - 
The Management of M / S . Assam Oil Company 
Limited, Post Officer Digboi, Assam . 

AND 
Their workmen represented by Assam Oil Com 

pany Labour Union , Digboi. 

REFERENCE NO. CENTRAL 5 OF 1968 . 
APPEARANCES : 

For the Management .--- Shri J . K . Ghose , Advocate, 
For the Union . - Shri A . B . Roy , Advocate. 


could not be properly used owing to geological dis 
turbances and roof trouble , that in order to implement 
the recommendation of the technical advisory com 
mittee the employers had to limit the operation to 2 
working sets and that in the result the 24 affected 
workmen were laid off with effect from 17th October 
1970 . The definition of " lay off” is to be found in 
S . (kkk ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 and it 
is as following : - 

lay off (with its grammatical variations and 

cognate expressions ) means the failure, re 
fusal or inability of an employer on account 
of shortage of coal, power or raw materials , 
or the accumulation of stocks or the break 
down of machinery or for any other reason to 
give employment to a workman whose name 
is borne on the muster rolls of his industrial 
establishment and who has not been re 
trenched ." 


AWARD 


The Government of India , Ministry of Labour Emp 
loyment and Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour 
and Employment) by its Order No. 25 / 18 / 67 - LR . I dated 
1st March , 1968 was pleased to refer an industrial ais 
pute existing between the management of Messrs . 
Assam Oil Company Limited , Digboi, and their work 
men represented by Assam Oil Company Labour Union 
Dgboi, to my predecessor Shri S . C . Barua, the then 
Presiding Officer , Industrial Tribunal, Dibrugarh , under 
section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 , 
as amended , for adjudication of the following issue : 
Whether the dismissal of Shri K . T . Das , Registered 

No. 26154 with effect from the 13th December , 
1966 by the management of MessiS. Assam Oil 
Company Limited , Digboi, is justified , and if 
not , to what relief is he entitled ? 


It emerges from the definition that the failure on 
the part of the employer to give employment to a 
workman for any reason is a " lay off” . Of course 
" any reason " should be analogous to shortage of coal 
etc . mentioned in the definition . I consider that the 
geological conditions and the roof trouble mentioned 
by MW . 1 are analogous to the reasons mentioned in 
the definition . Hence , the lay off of the affected work 
men could not be called illegal or unjustified . The 
second ground pleaded by the workmen also has no 
substance , because S .25G applies to retrenchment and 
not to lay off. Hence, there is no force in either of 
the grounds pleaded by the workmen . 


3 . I, therefore , find that the action of the manage 
ment of Pyrites, Phosphates and Chemicals Limited , 
Post Office Amjhore, District Shahabad ( Bihar ) in 
laying off the twenty - four shuttle car and loader 
operators from 17th October , 1970 to 7th December , 
1970 was justified and legal and , consequently , they 
are not entitled to any relief. The award is made 
accordingly and submitted under S . 15 of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act , 1947 . 


On receipt of this Notification , this reference was 
duly registered and notice was issued to the parties to 
file their written statements and in response to this 
notice the parties filed their Written Statements . The 
management also filed their Additional Written State 
ment. Thereafter , my predecessor Shri S . C . Barua 
retired from service and I was appointed in his posi 
tion , when on 23rd June , 1970 I received a petition 
from the Union on behalf of the workman praying for 
expeditious hearing of this case . The Government was 
thereafter moved to insert my name in the order of 
reference in place of Shri S . C . Barua to enable me 
to entertain this reference. The Central Government 
accordingly by their Notification No. 25 ( 18 ) / 67 -LRI 
( LR IV ) dated 27th November , 1970 was pleased to 
appoint me as the Presiding Officer for purpose of this 
reference in place of Shri S . C . Barua and proceed 
with the case from the stage at which it is transferred 
and dispose of the same according to law . As the case 
was ready by now , it was fixed fo :" . - , . " 
first time on 22nd May , 1971 and on 
dates . In the course of hearing, the management exa 
mined 3 (three ) witnesses and proved as many as 11 
( eleven ) documents . The Union likewise examined 
two witnesses but proved no documents . 


( Sd.) N . VENKATA RAO . 


Presiding Officer, 
Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal 

(No. 2 ) Dhanbad . 
[NO . L .29011 / 1 / 71-LR . IV .] 


4298 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21. 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


(PART II. 


in favour of the management of the domestic enquiry 
proceedings were conducted in a fair and proper 
manner and the management have been able to prove 
their case against the affected workman in such a 
tair proceedings. 


The case for the management in short is that the 
affected workman was on duty at the Compressor Sta 
tion No . 2 and during his duty hours it was noticed 
that certain amount of mercury, was stolen from this 
station by cutting a tube of a meter and the affected 
workman was consequently chargesheeted for this 
offence and after a due enquiry he was dismissed fronı 
service . 

At the outset, the learned Counsel for the manage 
ment submitted that this reference is not maintainable 
as no industrial dispute existed between the parties 
as mentioned in the order of reference . It will be 
noticed that the order of reference states the manage 
ment of M / s . Assam Oil Company Limited Digboi, 
V8. Their workmen represented by Assam Oil Com 
pany Labour Union , Digboi, and no industrial dispute 
existed as such , Section 2A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act (hereinafter called the Act ) is not attracted in 
this case in so far as the Union raised no dispute with 
the management before this reference was made. The 
Counsel submits that this point was duly raised by 
the management in their Written Statement and there 
has been no denial of this point from the Union . The 
Union s Witness No. 2 also admits in his statement 
that they raised a dispute on behalf of the workman 
for the first time before the Government and not be 
fore the managemcnt. The Management s Witness No. 
3 also makes the same statement. The learned Counsel 
submits that Section 2A of the Act is not relevant in 
this case. In support of this case , the Counsel cites 
the following rulings: 
1. Sindhu Re- setllement Corporation Limited V8 . 

Industrial Tribunal of Gujarat and others 

reported in 1968, FLR , page 307 . 
2 . Fedders Lloyd Corporation (Private ) Limited . 

vs. Lt. Governor , Delhi through Under Secy ., 
(Labour ). Delhi and others. - reported in 1970 , 
A .J. R , Delhi, page 60 . 


These objections raised by the management, in my 
opinion , have no force . After the incorporation of 
Section 2A of the Act , the restrictions on individual 
to raise an industrial dispute is withdrawn and the 
Union can sponsor the cause of the individual at any 
stage. In this case , the affected workman consistently 
raised a dispute against the management over his dis 
missal and the Union stepped in to spouse the cause 
of this workman only before the Government. The 
reasons for delay by the Union in sponsoring the cause 
of the workman have been sufficiently expressed by 
the Union Secretary Union witness No. 2 in his deposi 
tion . In the circumstance, in my opinion this refer 
ence cannot be considered as bad merely because the 
union raised rio dispute before the management first 
and raised the dispute on behalf of the workman for the 
first time before the Government. The Supreme 
Court s case of The Bombay Union of Journalists vs . 
The Hindu , Bombay , reported in 1961, LL . J ., Volume 
II , page 436 , lends support to this view even before 
the promulgation of Section 2A of the Act . Further , 
It must also be remembered that this reference is made 
under section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Act. Under this sec 
tion , all the Government has to see is that an indus 
trial dispute does exist or apprchended at the material 
time and since it is not dented by the parties that the 
dispute did exist at the time of the reference the mere 
fact that the Union did not sponsor the cause of the 
workman at the earlier stage is immaterial. The cases 
cited by the learned Counsel for the management 
( supra ) have no bearing on the present case . In those 
cases, the affected workman made no representation 
before the management but only to his Union and the 
Union also made no representation to the management 
before approaching the Government for referring the 
matter for adjudication . In this view of the matter , 
the objections raised by the management regarding 
the maintainability of this reference is overruled . 

Now to come to the merits of the reference. It is 
a settled law that the Tribunal ought to give an award 


It is noticed that the Union have assailed the domes 
tic enquiry proceedings as defective as the same was 
conducted in distinct violation of the principles of 
natural justice . The Union alleged that persistent re 
quest was made by the affected workmari for a repre 
sentation of his choice before the domestic enquiry . 
But this request was denied to him and he was thereby 
greatly prejudiced as he has no education and did 
not follow the full impact of the proceedings . The 
management have allowed the representation to their 
workmen in almost all cases in the past and there was 
no reason why representation should have been denied 
to this workman . The Counsel for the workman next 
submits that the enquiry was held in a frightful hurry 
and no time was given to the workman to prepare 
his defence . It will be also recalled that the enquiry 
was held on two different dates . The workman was 
not suspended from work and he was asked to appear 
in the enquiry almost immediately the day after he 
was chargesheeted . Then again , the workman thought 
that the enquiry had concluded on the first day but 
he was again called for the enquiry on 25th November , 
1966 right from his duty without any notice . Nothing 
happened on this date for the management to continue 
the enquiry as no order sheet was maintained in this 
enquiry . The Counsel submits that the Opposite Party 
had no mind to attend this enquiry which was con 
ducted in utter disregard of the principles of natural 
justice , He attended the same lest he be again charged 
of insubordination . The Counsel then submits that 
the workman was not allowed to adduce his own evi 
dence . It is mentioned in the enquiry proceedings , 
Exhibit - 2 , that one Shri M . L . Paul was examined 
on behalf of the Union but the Counsel submits the 
tact 18 that Shri Paul was never cited by the workman 
As his witness . The Counsel finally submits that the 
findings of the enquiry proceedings are perverse as the 
case against the workman has never been proved by 
the management at the domestic enquiry. The work 
man was charged of nemligence of his duties and this 
charge has not been proved . It was the consistent 
defence of the workman that the meter which was 
tempered with by an outsider was not in his charge 
and the management could not prove that it was the 
duty of this workman to attend to this meter also , 
Since no duties was cast on the workman , he cannot 
be held guilty of negligence . As such , the findings 
of the enguiring officer that he ( the workman ) is 
guilty of negligence of his duties is entirely perverse . 
The learned Counsel further states that the enquiry 
was conducted with the very idea to prosecute the 
workman . The management state that with the cut 
ting of the tube of the meter there was a hissing sound 
of escaping gas from the meter which ought to have 
been heard by the workman and inspite of this sound 
the workman failed to report the fact to his immediate 
superior Shri P . K . Barua immediately after the occur 
ance. Shri P . K . Barua who arrived at 6 . 55 AM , at 
the Station gald that he heard the hissing sound of 
escaping gas, whereas the another Company s witness 
Shri P . L . Dey said that he arrived at the Station at 
the same time 1. e . at 6 . 30 A . M . and heard no hissing 
sound of escaping gas from the cut meter. Thus , there 
was contradiction in the statements made by these 
two witnesses and the Counsel submits that in order to 
make the workman guilty of the offence Mr. Malik 
was introduced on 25th November , 1986 . He is an 
officer of another department of the Company and not 
directly superior to the affected workman . He said 
in his deposition made before the enquiring officer 
that he came to the Compressor Station at 8 A . M . and 
heard the hissing sound . The Counsel submits that 
All these go to show that although the evidence of 
the company s witness Shri P . L . Dev and Shri M . L . 
Paul (who was not cited by the workman as his wit 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


Sec. 3 (ü )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 

4299 

- - - - - - - - - 
: 1055 ) were in favour of the aftected workman yet the what principles the Company allows or refuses the 
enquiring officer sought to find his guilty and he was representaion to the workmen . But it is certain that 
therefore biased against the workman , 

this matter of representation cannot be left to the 
In reply to these arguments , the learned Counsel for 

naked discretion of the management. When the 
the management stales that the ailected workman has 

management have themselves admitted in the course 
been charged only of negligence which is a misconduct 

of hearing that they in some cases allowed represen 
under the Standing Orders of the Company and this 

tation to the workmen of his own choice I see no 
charge is amply proved against the workman in the 

reason why this request for representation should have 
enquiry . It cannot be denied that the affected work 

been denied to this workman , It is noticed that the 
inan was in charge of the Compressor Slation and 11 

workman at first asked for Shri Biswas , Joint 
was his duty to report to his superior anything that 

Secretary , Assam Oil Company Labour Union , 
may go wrong in that station . Since he failed to 

to represent him and this was refused on the 
report this tempering of the moter in time to his 

ground that he could not be spared due 
superior he must be held guilty of this offence of 

to the nature of his work . Thereafter, the work 
negligence . There is nothing wrong on the part of 

man was asked for one Shri N , P . Das , who is 
the management to hold the enquiry on two different 

s School Muster. This request was also denied to hi . 
dates as there is nothing to show in the enquiry pro 

on the same ground. It is not understood why a 
ceedings that it was 

school Master could not be spared to represent the 
concluded on the first day and 
as such the evidence of Mr. Malik is valid . Besides, 

workman in the enguiry . The management contena . 
the Counsel submits , that the enquiry 

that representation is not important and that denial of 

proceedings 
were conducted in a fair and proper manner and that 

representation cannot by itself vitiate the proceedings 
there has not been any violation of the principles of 

unless it can be shown that it has prejudiced the work 
natural justice and when the findings are not perverse 

man . I feel, the workman has definitely been pre 
the Tribuna . Dught to givo its approval to the dişmis 

judiced . There is evidence before this Tribunal that 
sal order of the managenient without going through 

che affected workman is a scmi- literate person and 
the evidences recorded before it . As regurds represen 

since he was not allowed any time whatsoever to pre 
Hition , the Counsel submits that the right of represen 

pare his defence it was meet and proper for the 
lation is not inherent in the principles of natural 

Management at least to allow this workman to be 
justice . Further , the Standing Orders of the Company 

represented by a person of his choice . Principles of 
do not also provide for such representation . It is true 

natural justice are not the embodied principles , They 
that the Company have allowed representation in 

tre just unwritten rules that a man of common intelli 
some cases but this cannot be taken 

font should follow in conducting in enquiry . Thesc 

as a 
practice as there are also a nuinber of cases in which 

principles are basically that the workman ought to be 
the Company denied representation to the workmen 

given adequate opportunity to depend himself and that 
as will he evident from Exhibit - 10 . In support of these 

the whole proceedings are conducted in such a manner 
contentions, the learned Counsel cites the following 

that the workman has no grievance whatsoever. In 
cases: - - 

the instant case , I am constrained to say that the 

management did not follow even these basic princi 
1 . Sur Enamel and Stamping Works Limited , 115 ples of natyral justice in so far as ( 1 ) while keeping 

Their Workmen . -- reported in 1963 , A . I. R . the workman on duty 1 10 PM . on 21st November , 
S . C ., page 1914 , 

1966 he was asked to appear for enquiry at 8 AM , on 

the following day ; ( 2 ) then again , at the enquiry the 
2 . Kulindy ( N .) and others 19s. Tata Locomotive and 

workman was not allowed to be represented by any 
Engg . Company. , Jamshedpur. — reported In 

person of his choice for reasons best known to the 
1980, L . L . J ., Volume II, page 228 , ( a Supreme 

management although there is a practice in this Com 
Court case ) . 

pany that request for representation of a person of 
3 . Brooke Bond India ( Private Limited , 275 , S . 

his choice is usually allowed . Representation was 
Subha Raman & another .. - - reported in 1961, 

denied to the workman even though the management 
L . L . J ., Volume II, S .C ., page 417 . 

fully knew that the workman is a semiliterate person 

not at all conversant with the procecdings ; ( 3 ) it is 
4. Harinagar Sugar Mills vs. Their Workmen . -- noticed that no prior information was given to the 

reported in 1961, L L . J., Volume II, page 611. workman that the enguiry will continue on 25th No 
( a Patna High Court case ) . 

vember . 1966 . He was just asked to appear before the 
On perusal of Exhibit - 1 , the Chargesheet, it is noticed 

enquiring officer in the morning of 25th November , 
that the workman was charged on 21st November , 

1966 again on which date Mr. Malik was examined . It 
1966 at 2 - 50 P .M . and he was asked to appear at the 

is rot known why Mr. Malik could not be examined or 
pnquiry on 22nd November , 1966 at 8 A . M . It is admit 

21st November , 1966 . From the entire circumstances 
ted by the management that the workman was not 

I have reasons to believe that Mr. Malik is introduced 
suspended from work and that he was on duty till purposely to re - inforce the management s case against 
10 PM on 21st November, 1966. Thus the workman . The management s case is that the 
it is clcar that the workman was not 

meter in question was in the room of which the work 
given any chance to prepare his defence. Then again , man was incharge and during his duty hours some 
it is noticed that the workman did not sign the charge time at 3 A. M . in the morning of 21st Novemher . 1966 
shect, Exhibit - 1, in token of his acceptance . Further, the meter in question was cut and the mercury was 
it is also noticed that at the enquiry on 22nd November stolen from the meter . The management s case further 
1966 the workman tervently requested the manage Is that when the Suction meter is cut there will be 21 
Jient that he may be allowed to be represented by a loud hissing sound of gas emiting from the meter un 
Denon of his choice. But this was denied to him . It less the valves are isolated . The sound will be so loud 
Is not understood why was there such frantic hurry on 

that it is bound to he heard by a person from any 
the part of the manageme - to hold the enguiry. It corner of the room . The workman was therefore guilty 
the offence committed by the workman was so severe of gross negligence of duty in so far as he did not 
and henious as that the prerproceedure would have report of this cut to his superior immediately but only 
goen to suspend the workian from service, issue at A A . M . To substantiate the management s case , 
hargesheet on him and houd an enquiry after giving two witnesses were examined by the enquiring 
him adequate time to prepare his (workman ) defence oncer — one Shri P . L . Dey and the other is Shri P K . 
It is true that the Standing Orders of the Company Baruah and Shri M . L . Paul alleged to be a witness 
does not provide for any representation of the work on behalt of the workman ( although the workman 
nan But the management do not deny the fact that denied of having cited him as his witness ) . Shri P . L . 
n many cases representatives of his own choice were Dey in his evidence before the enquiring officer said 
allowed to the workmen while in other cases it was that he came into the Compressor Station on duty to 
refused as per Exhibit - 10 . It is not known under read the meter in question at about 6 - 30 A . M . and he 


4300 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 

(PART 11 
- 

- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - 
Heard no hissing sound from the cut meter in question . 
He only saw that some mercury split on the ground 

no sovner he saw this cut in the meter he informed 

this matter to his immediate superior 
Sri P . k . Baruah , on the other hand , yala that he 

Shri P . K . 
came to the Station on receipt of a telephone call 

Baruah . He did not know when this meter was cut 
from Shri k . T . Das, the workman , at about 6 - 55 a m . 

and there was no hissing sound to attract him . Now , 
and he heard the hissing sound loud enough for any 

how far this affected workman s defence is tenable in 
one in the loom to hear and the valves were not 

the light of the charges levelled against him ? It must 
Isolated then , Sri M . L . Paul, the Ouman on duty on 

be remembered that the affected workman has not 
that night, also said that he heard no sound emitting 

been charged of cutting the meter in question nor of 
from the cut nictor. Thus on 21st November 1966 over 

stealing mercury from it . He is charged only of negli 
whelming evidence was in favour of the workman . 

gence of duty. It is not denied by the management 
Yer the management chose to defer this enquiry and 

that the all ected workman has been in service with 
examined one more witness who could speak in their 

this Company for 22 years and that these meters were 
favour on another date without even giving a prior 

placed in a seperate house outside the Compressor 
notice to the workman . Thus, I must say that the 

Station and a seperate man was put in charge of these 
management held the enquiry in a blatent disregard 

meters. It was only recently these meters were brought 

to this room . Except for the verbal statement of M . W . 
of the principles of natural justice, 

No . I and M . W . No . 2 , there is nothing to show in the 
The next question is whether the charge of gross record that the affected workman was responsible for 
Nogligence of duty is proved against this workman in working of the meters on the right hand side of the 
the domestic enquiry . The management s witness Sri room . Even trom Exhibit- 8 , it cannot be gathered that 
P , K . Baruah states in the enquiry in unequivoca ] the affected workman is responsible for the meters in 
terms that this workman is not responsible for reading question . This cxhibit was issued in 1965 when these 
of the meters in the bay in which the meter in ques meters on the right hand side were not in the room 
tion was situated . He also says that the affected Thus since I have no documentary evidence to prove 
workman is responsible for all the equipments in ine that the affected workman is responsible for all the 
rooin . It is not known how a man can be held res equipments in the room and since the management 
ponsible for a equipment of which he has nothing to admit that the affected workman had nothing to do 
do . To make a man responsible for break down of an with the meters on the right hand side, I must take 
equipment it must be specifically proved that he is that he cannot be ne. d responsible for the break down 
responsible for this equipment and this proof is lack of the meters in question . Further, the affected work 
ing in the whole inquiry proceedings . The findings mon could be charged of the offence of negligence of 
of the enquiry proceedings are therefore perverse . 

duty if he was the only person who had access to this 
In the above view of the matter , I am inclined to room , But this is not so . I have the evidence that the 
reject the enquiry proceedings as in my opinion it person in charge of the Annexe also came to the 
was conducted in distinct violation of the principles 

room for Alling the log book . There is also the evi 
of natural justice and that the findings of these pro dence that the affected workman goes away on duty 
ceedings are also perverse . 

from the Compressor Station every hour to the cooling 

tower leaving the Station without any attendance to 
The next question is , have the management been the knowledge of the management. The management 
able to prove their case before this Tribunal ? The argues that even though the affected workman was 
material evidence in this regard are the depositions not responsible for the meter in question he should 
of Shri P . K . Baruah , M . W . No. 1 , Mr. Malik , M . W . have noticed the damage on account of the hissing 
No. 2 and also that of the affected workman , U . W sound of encaping gas emitting from the meter which 
No. ) . From a perusal of the entire evidences , the thic M . W . No . 1 and M . W . No, 2 state are loud enough 
following facts can be said to be established ( 1 ) that for anyone to hear from any place of the Compressor 
the workman was on duty from 10 p . m . to 6 a .m . and room even when all the machines in the room are in 
during his duty hours the Suction meter in question operation . On this , I must turn to thc evidence of 
was cut and certain amount of mercury lying on the Sri P . L . Dey , a management s witness to the domestic 
floor ; ( 2 ) that there arc two sets of meter in the enquiry . He was the Grst person to enter the Com 
room . One set was on the right hand side and the pressor room after the affected workman reported the 
other was on the left hand side about few feet away matter to his superior , the M . W . No . 1, Sri Baruah , as 
from the entrance door of the Conipressor Station , and he was not examined before this Tribunal. He cate 
the affected workman is not responsible for reading gorically said that he heard no hissing sound from 
of the set of meters on the right hand side in which the cut meter as early as 6 , 30 A . M , The affected work . 
the cut mcter in question was situuted ; ( 3 ) that the man s alleged witness Sri M . L . Paul, the Ollman , also 
machines in the room were running with good amount said in the enquiry that it is his duty to go round the 
of noise ; ( 4 ) that there is another building about 50 ft . machinces every hour and oil the machines , when 
away from this Compressor Station No. 2 known as 

ever necessary , and he found nothing unusual nor did 
Anncxe and a person is placed on duty in this 

he hear any hissing sound from the meter and he 
Annexe to look after the machineries placed in this 

noticed the damage in the meter only at 5 . 30 A . M . 
room . But there is one log book placed on the table 

Thus, two of the earliest visitors to the Compressor 
on which the affected workman works and both these 

Station said that they heard no hissing sound . There 
workmen had to make entries in this log book after 

is no reason to doubt the statements of these witnesses 
every hour and this man naturally has to come from 

as the enquiry was held so quickly after the incident 
the Annexe to this room where the cut meter 19 that the affected workman had practically no chance 
situated every hour ; ( 5 ) that there was also a cool 

to discuss the matter with these witnesses before the 
ing water tower about 250 ft. away from the Station 

commencement of the enquiry . Although Sri P . L 
und it was the duty of the affected workman to go to 

Dey and Sri M , L , Paul were not examined hefore 
this tower every hour and inspect and adſust the 

this Tribunal, I feel the Tribunal is entitled to take 
valves, if necessary ; ( 6 ) finally , that there is a door 

into account these statements made by them in the 
very near the right hand side meter and just by the 

domestic enquiry which forms a part of the record 
side of the door outside the room there is a telephone 

of this case although three proceedings are found to 
booth open for all employees to phone. 

be defective on other grounds. 
On these facts , the affected workman s defence 19 Further , I feel there is another aspect to this matter. 
that since he has nothing to do with the meter on the The effected workman did after all report the incident 

few 
right hand side he had no reason to doubt that one to his superior Shri P , K , Baruah . He only did 
of the meters was tempered with . He only noticed hours late as it will be noticed from the reading of 
this when he went to telephone at about 5 . 30 AM . to the meter. It is not known how the management have 

The mis 
the Telephone Booth just outside the room in course suffered on account of this late reporting . 
of his duty to And out the position in the field and 


SEC. 3 ( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4301 


chief could not have been prevented even if the 
affected workman reported the matter earlier than he 
did . Thus, from this point of view also , the affected 
workman cannot be held guilty of negligence, 

Thus to sumarise a workman can be held guilty of 
negligence of duty only when it can definitely be 
proved that the equipments were in his charge and 
that the break down of these equipments occurred 
Huring his duty hours . While the management could 
Di sve that the equipments were tempered with during 
duty hours of the affected workman they could not 
prove that these equipments were in charge of this 
workman . The affected workman cannot therefore be 
neld guilty of negligence of duty . 


Their workmen . 
APPEARANCES : 
On behalf of the employers - Shri S. S . Mukher 

jee , Advocate . 
On behalf of the workmen : Shri B . Lal, Advocate . 
STATE : Bihar . 

INDUSTRY :Coal. 
Dhanbad, 25th September , 1972 . 

AWARD 
The Central Government, being Of opinion that an 
industrial dispute exists between the employers in 
relation to the West Bokaro Colliery of Messrs West 
Bckaro Limited , Post Office Ghatotand , District Hazari 
bagh and their workmen , by its order No. 2 / 187 / 70 
LRII, dated 9th February, 1971 referred to this Tri-- 
bunal under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Dis 
putes Act , 1947 for adjudication the dispute in respect 
of the matters specified in the schedule annexed there 
to . "The schedule is extracted below : 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of the management of the 

West Bokaro Colliery of Messrs West Bokaro 
Limited , Post Office Ghatotand , District Haza 
ribagh in terminating the services of Shri 
Dharm Nath Singh , Stone Dusting Mazdoor 
was justified ? If not to what relief is the 
workman concerned entitled and from what 
date ? " 


In the result , the only issue in this reference is 
90swered as follows: - - 
The dismissal of Sri K . T . Das, Regd . No. 26154 

with effect from the 13th December , 1966 by 
the management of Messrs . Assam Oil 
Company Limited , Digboi, is not justified and 
he should therefore be reinstated in his 

service with continuity of service . 
tave this ‘Award on this 23rd day of September , 
1972 , at Dibrugarh . 

(Sd .) G . N . BORAK , 


Presiding Officer, 
Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal, 

Dibrugarh , Assam . 


2 . The employers as well as the workmen filed their 
statement of demands. The employers filed their re 
joinder also to the statement filed by the workmen . 


[No. 25 (18 ) / 67 -LR .IV ) . ] 
S . S . SAHASRANAMAN , Under Secy . 


S . O . 2858 . In exercise of section 17 of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central Gov 
ernment hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Governmerit Industrial Tribunal No. 2, Dhan 
bad in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the management of West Bokaro Col 
liery of Messrs West Bokaro Limited , Post Office Gha 
totand , District Hazaribagh and their workmen ; which 
was received by the Central Government on the 30th 
September , 1972 . 


3 . Dharm Nath Singh , the affected workman was a 
Stone Dusting Mazdoor in West Bokaro colliery of 
the employers . He was granted leave from 13 - 4 - 1970) 
to 29 -4 - 1970 , but he did not return to duty within 8 
days of the expiry of the leave so granted and the 
employers terminated his service as a permanent 
workmen . These facts are not in dispute . According 
to the workmen the affected workman having fallen 
ill applied for extension of his leave on the ground 
of his sickness vide his medical certificate sent to the 
management under the certificate of posting on 25th 
April, 1970, that the management did not reply to 
the application , that the letter dated 1st June, 1970 
terminating the services of the affected workman was 
issued when he had already reported for his duties, 
that the management has terminated the services of 
the affected workman to victimise him for his trade 
union activities and for his being a member of Koyala 
Shramik Sanghthan and that, as such the action of the 
management was unjustified . According to the em 
ployers when he failed to return within 8 days of the 
expiry of the leave originally granted to him , the 
affected workman automatically lost lien on his ap 
pointment and he was kept in badli list as per stand 
ing orders of the colliery . The employers denied 
having received any application for extension of 
leave as pleaded by the workmen . They have also 
denied that the affected workman had come to the 
colliery before the termination letter dated 1st June , 
1970 was sent to him or that he was victimised for 
his trade union activities. The workmen were repre 
sented by Shri B . Lal, Advocate and the employers 
by Shri S . S . Mukherjee , Advocate . On behalf of the 
employers 2 witnesses were examined and Exts M4 
and M5 and W1 to W .3 were marked . On behalf of 
the workmen also 2 witnesses were examined and 
Exts. W . 12 and W . 13 were marked . Exts . W . 4 to 
W . 11 for the workmen on admission by the employ 
ers and Exts. Mi to M3 for the employers on admis 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT 
INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO. 2) 

AT DHANBAD 


PRESENT : 


Shri Nandagiri Venkata Rao, Presiding Officer . 

REFERENCE NO . 29 OF 1971 . 
In the matter of an industrial dispute under S . 

10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947 . 


PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the West Bokaro Col 

liery of Messrs West Bokaro Limited , Post 
Office Ghatotand , District Hazaribagh . 

AND 


4 . It is an admitted position that the affected work 
man was a Stone Dusting Mazdoor in West Bokaro 
colliery of the employers that he was granted leave 
from 13th April, 1970 to 29th April, 1970 and that he 


4302 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


(Pakr 11 


- - - 


qid not report tu duly within 8 days of the leave so 
granted . Clause 11 of the standing orders , Ext. M3 
(marked on admission by the workmen ) lays down 
inter-alia : 


-- - - - - 
allected workman reported for duty at the colliery . 
The affected workman also did not refer to the date , 
bul says that he came to the colliery after about a 
month of expiry of leave. When he did not return 
within 8 days of expiry or the leave , on what date the 
terinination letter Ext , M4 was delivered to him after 
he returned from leave become immaterial. In these 
circumstances and in view of the decision of the Sup 
reme Court referred to above, termination of his ser 
vice was automatic and the employers cannot be 
found fault for it . 


" If the employee remains absent beyond the pe 

riod of leave originally granted or subse 
quently extended he shall lose his lien on his 
appointment unless : 
(i ) he returns within 8 days of the expiry of 

the leave, and 
( ii ) gives an explanation to the satisfaction of 

the Manager of his inability to return be 
fore the expiry of leave. In case the em 
ployee loses his lien on the appointment he 
shall be entitled to be kept on the Badli 


list " 


The Supreme Court has pointed out in National Engi 
neering Industries Ltd , Jalpur v . Hanuman ( AIR 1968 
S . C . 33 ) , that under such circumstances the work 
mans s seryke terminates automatically . The case of 
tlie workmen is that the affected workman had sent an 
application or a medical certificate on 25th April, 1970 
for extension of his leave. This application and the 
medical certificate are denied by the employers , No 
copy of guch an application or the medical certificate 
is brought on record . A certificate of posting. Ext. 
W . 5 , dated 25th April, 1970 is produced . Ext . W . 5 
by itself is not a proof that an application or a medical 
certificate for extension of leave was gent. It only 
gives rise to the presumption that a letter was sent. 
The affected workman was the proper person to speak 
as to who had written the letter or which Doctor had 
issued the medical certificate and how it was sent. 
Ile is examined as WW . 1. He did not speak about 
his sending any medical certificate under the certifi 
cate of posting . Ext. W . 5 . He says that the letter on 
his behalf was written by Baijnath Singh , his brother 
and in the letter he had prayed for an extension of 
leave by a month , that the letter was brought from 
his village to the colliery by his brother , Baijnath 
Singh and that he did not know in what language his 
brother had written the letter . In view of this evid 
ence the certificate of posting, Ext. W , 5 becomes mean 
ingless . But the affected workman , WW . I stated 
Again that his hrother Baijnath Singh had posted the 
letter and he did not come to the colliery , Baijnath 
Sirch was the proper person to speak what he had 
written in the letter , whether he had posted it and 
from which post office he obtained the certificate of 
posting Ext. W .5 . But Baijnath Singh is not examin 
ed , although he is the brother of the affected work 
man . The affected workman , WW1 has in his evid 
ence that after coming to the colliery he had handed 
over to Verma, the Labour Officer his medical certi 
flcate and also Ext. W .5 , but at a later stage he clari 
Aled that he got the medical certificate after he re 
covered completely and the game certificate he had 
given to Verma the Labour Officer . According to 
him . he did not remember from what date and in what 
month he had fallen ill , but he was ill for about a 
month und for about 15 or 16 days he wag in -patient 
in the hospital at Ekma and for the remaining days 
he used to go to the hospital and get medicines. The 
medical certificate is Ext. W . 4 and it is dated 31st 
May , 1970 , stating that the affected workman was 
under treatment of the Doctor from 30th April, 1970 
This is the only medical certificate which is brought 
on record . But according to the workmen the medi 
cal certificate was sent on 25th April, 1970 under the 
certificate of pogting. Ext. W .5 , In para 2 of their 
statement the workmen had stated he fel ] ill and 
applied for extension of his leave on the grourid of 
sickness vide his medical certificate sent to the man 
agernent under the certificate of posting on 25th April, 
1970 . " In view of this evidence it is difficult to be 
lieve that the affected workman had sent any applica 
tion for extension of his leave or a medical certificate 
within 8 days of the leave granted . On behalf of the 
workmen to date is mentioned on which date the 


5 . It was pleaded on behalf of the workmen that 
because the affected workman was a member of 
Koyala Shramik Sanghatan he was victimised and 
that in case of Thakur Mondal and several others 
who were members of INTUC union the management 
had shown discrimination by allowing them to re 
sume duties even though they had also overstayed 
he granted leave by more than 8 days . In support 
of the contention the Secretary , Koyala Shramik 
Sanghatan iş examined as WW . 2 . Exts W . 6 to W .11 
show that Anant Mistry , Ramadhar Singh , Latif 
Mian and Mohinad Jalli, all workmen of the same 
colliery were reinstated in their jobs after their ser 
vices were terminated for overstaying the granted 
leave in terms of clause 11 of the standing orders, 
Ext. M3 and these exhibits , Exts . W6 to W . 11 
were marked on admission by the employers . MW . 1 
has admitted that the union mentioned in Exts . W . 7 
and W . 9 means the Colliery Mazdoor Sangh , an 
INTUC union . It follows that these four workmen 
were re - instated after their services were terminat 
ed for overstaying the granted leave by more than 
8 days because their cases were represented by Col 
llery Mazdoor Sangh , an INTUC union . Shri B . Lal, 
the learned Advocate for the workmen has referred 
me to the decision of the Patna High Court in Pure 
Kustore Colliery v . Bhajan Dusad and others , ( 1969 - I 
L .LJ, 129 ) . In that decision the management had not 
terminated the services of 36 workmen although they 
had overstayed their leave by more than 8 days, but 
because the affected workman in that case belonged 
to Khan Mazdoor Congress his service was terminated . 
It is to be remembered that in the instant case the 
case of the workmen is not that services of the work 
men belonging to Colliery Mazdoor Sangh were not 
terminated and service of the affected workman was 
terminated because he belonged to Koyala Sharamik 
Sanghatan . Their case as pleaded and as proved by 
Exts . W .6 to W . 11 is that the 4 workmen referred to 
in Exts . W . 6 and W . 11 and one Thakur Mondal were 
reinstated after their services were terminated for 
overstaying the granted leave by more than 8 days. 
In this view the decision of the Patna High Court is 
to be distinguished . In the present case the dispute is 
not as regards reinstatement of the affected work 
man , but it is as regards justification of termination 
of his service The services of the 4 workmen referred 
to in Exts . W .6 to W . 11 and of Thakur Mondal were 
also terminated as was done in the case of the affected 
workman without any discrimination for overstaying 
the granted leave . If the case of the workmen is 
that the above referred to 5 workmen were re - instated 
but not the affected workman , It is beyond the pre 
sent reference . This Tribunal is not competent to 
convert the dispute referred to in respect of justifica 
tion for termination of services of the affected work 
man into the dispute as regards justification in refusing 
to reinstate him in service as the employers had done 
in the case of other 5 workmen . Regarding the other 
trade union activities of the affected workman there 
is absolutely no evidence . Hence , there is no scope 
to contend that termination of services of the affected 
workman was for victimisation for his trade union 
activitieg . 

6 . I. therefore, find that the action of the manage 
ment of West Bokaro collery of Messrg West Bokaro 
Limited , Post Office Ghatotand , District Hazaribagh in 


Sec. 3(1 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4303 


- - 


- 


- - - 


terminating the services of the affected workman 
Dharm Nath Singh , Stone Dusting Mazdoor was justi 
fed and consequently , he is not entitled to any relief . 
The award is made accordingly and submitted under 


( Sd .) N . VENKATA RAO , 

Presiding Officer , 
Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal 

(No. 2/ 187/ 70-LRII .) 
S . O , 2859 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Indus 

al Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central 
Government hereby publishes the following award of 
1.114: Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , 
in the industrial dispute between the employers in lo 
lation to the management of Mithapur Colliery of 
Messrs Mithapur Coal Company , Post Office Searsole 
Rajbari, - District Burdwan and their workmen , which 
was received by the Central Government on the 4th 
October , 1972. 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 

AT CALCUTTA 

REFERENCE No . 109 OF 1971 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the management of 

Mithapur Colliery of Messra Mithapur Coal 
Company , 

AND 
"Their Workmen , 
; HENENT: 

Sri S . N . Bagchi-- Presiding Oficer. 
APPEARANCES : 
On behalf of Employers . Sri Gulab Chand Gidiya , 

Accountant. 
On behalf of Workmen - Absent. 
ST ITE : West Bengal 

INDUSTRY : Coal Mine. 

AWARD 
By Order No. L / 1912 / 69 / 71 - LRII, dated 16th Octo 
ber , 1971, the Governinent of India , in the Ministry 


3 , As none of the parties have submitted any state 
ment of case and as the union has also not turned up 
10 - day knowing that to -day is fixed for peremptory 
hearing of the case , it can be presumed that there is 
no dispute existing at present between the parties 
ind as such I render a no dispute award in the 
inatter under reference . 
This is my award . 

( Sd .) S . N . BAQCHI, 

Presiding Officer. 
Dated , September 27, 1972, 

[No. L - 1912 / 69 / 71 -LRII. 1 
( Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 10th October 1972 
S . O . 2860 . -- In pursuance of section 17 of the In 
dustrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central 
Government hereby publishes the following award 
of the Central Government Industrial Friburial, 
Hyderabad , in the industrial dispute between the 
employers in relation to the Singareni Collieries Com 
pany Limited , Ramagundam Division , Post Office 
Godavarikhani (Andhra Pradesh ) and their work 
men , which was received by the Central Government 
on the 4th October , 1972 . 
BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL ( CENT 

RAL ) AT HYDERABAD 
PRESENT: 
Sri P . S . Ananth , B .Sc , B . L ., Chairman , Indus 
trial Tribunal, Andhra, Pradesh , Hyderabad , 
INDUSTRIAL DISPUTE No. 47 or 1971 

BETWEEN 
Workmen of Singareri Collieries Company Limi 

ted , Ramagundam Division , P . O . GODA 
VARIKHANI 

AND 
Management of Singareni Collieries Company 

Limited , Ramagundam Division , P . O . GODA 

VARIKHANI. 
APPEARANCES : 

Sri A . Lakshmana Rao, Advocate , for Workmen , 
Srl M . Shyam Mohan , Personnel Oicer, s . C . Co ., 
Ltd . for Management. 

AWARD 
Thc Government of India , Mnistry of Labour , Em 
ployment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment) by ito Order No. 7 / 50 / 70 - LR . II 
dated : 29th May. 1971 referred the following dispute 
under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 (hereinafter referred to as the said " Act ) 
for adjudication by this Tribunal, namely ; 
" Whether the mariagement of Singarent Colliertes 

Company Limited , Ramagundam Division , 
Post Office Godavari Khani ( Andhra Pradesh ) 
are justified in terminating the services of 
Sarvashri Metta Lingaiah , Salla Manthaiah 
and Syed Jani, Loading and Un - loading 
Mazdoors in the Coal Screening Plant, Goda 
varikhani, Ramagundam Division - I with 
effect from the 30th August, 1970 ? If not, to 

what relief are the workmen entitled ? " 
This reference was taken on file as Industrial Dispute 
No. 47 of 1971 and notices were issued to the paties , 
For the purpose of convenience the workmen , who are 
claimants, are referred to as the Petitioners and the 
Singareni Collierles Company Limited , Ranmagundam 
Division is referred to as the respondents in the 
course of this award . 

2 . The petitioners are represented by the Andhra 
Pradesh Singareni Collieries Mazdoor Sanghi (herein 
after referred to as the said Sangh ) and the Vice 
President of the said Sangh Aled the claims statement 
r onteding as follows: The petitioners are perma 
nont employees of the respondents working as load 
ing and un - loading mazdoors since 1968 in the Coal 
Screening Plant of the Company , while they were go 


and Employment ) , referred the following industrial 
dispute existing between the employers in relation to 
the management of Mithapur Colliery of Messrs 
Mithapur Coal Company and their workmen , to this 
Tribunal, for adjudiration , namely : 
" Whether the workmen of Mithapur Colliery of 

Messrs Mithapur Coal Company . Post Office 
Searsole Rajbari, District Burdwan are en 
titled to any compensation for their forced 
unemployment from the 17th May, 1971 to the 
9th July , 1971 by their employers ? If so , with 
what details ? " 


3 . To - day is the date fixed for peremptory hearing 
of the case. The union appeared on 16th August 1972 
but none appeared on behalf of the management when 
the date was fixed for hearing . But the union did 
not file any statement of its case nor the management. 
To - day when the case was called on for hearing Sri 
Gulab Chund Gidiya , Accountant of the manage 
mont, came to represent the case for the management 
but none turned up for the union . The notice of the 
peremptory date of hearing was duly served on the 
management on 25th August 1972 . The union knew 
the date on 16th August 1972, Axed for peremptory 
hearing today . For the management the gentleman 
wlio has appeared submitted that the management 
did not get the notice of this date of peremptory hear 
ing but the record shows that the management got 
the notice on 25th August 1972. Therefore, I cannot 
accept the statement of the gentleman who has 
appeared for the management and I shall not adjourn 
the case . 


4304 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[PART II 


working the Management wanted to send them as 
Coal Fillers. So on 28 - 8 - 1970 the claimants were 
sent to the Colliery Doctor for medical examination 
to test their fitness for appointment us Coal Fillers. 
The doctor had written the words unfit against each 
of the workmen , Neither the reason for finding each 
of the workmen uniit nor the defect found in them 
is recorded by the doctor . On the basis of this vaguo 
linding of the doctor , the Management terminated the 


purportng to act under the Standing Order 13 . The 
action of the Management in terminating the scrVICE 
of the petitioners is illegal and improper being viola 
live of the principles of paiural justice. The Manage 
ment passed the orders of termination in colourable 
exerciscs of their power under the Standing Order 
13 . The doctor did not find that the petitioners were 
unfit for the job of loading and unlouding mazuoor 
which they were doing for the past four years . The 
nature of the standard medical test differs from post 
to post. Assuming without conceeding that the 
doc or found the workmen unfit for the post of Coal 
Fillers the managenient is not justified in terminat 
ing the services of the petitioners . The petitioners 
got themselves exatnind in December, 1970 by it 
competent Civil Surgeon of the Government Head 
quarters Hospital, Karimnagar and the medical certi 
ficates issued to them show that they do not slutter 
froin any defect disabling them from working in the 
cual mines, As 2 matter of fact the managerient 
made use of the vague and unconnected remark of 
the doctor 19 à ruse to terminate the services of the 
workmen As a matter of fact One Bharatara ) . 
having some defective eye sight was discharged alon : 
with the three workmen concerned in this dispute 
He was also loading and unloading mazdoor. Alter 
lie got the defect rectified he was re - employed by the 
Managment with continuity of service . The job of 
logding and unloading mazdoor is quite different from 
that of coal filler, which is more arduous and to be 
done underground It is not within the power of the 
management to alter the very nature of the work 
rune Dy a particular workman and then to discharge 
him from service on the ground of his not being iil 
for the new job . The petitioners could not secure 
any other joh since termination of their services with 
effect from 30 - 8 - 1970 inspite of their best cfforts . So 
the order of management may be set aside and they 
may be reinstated into service with back wages. 


medical fitness was not agreeable to the Union re 
presenting them and so the petitioners have fofelted 
ever this chance to be reexamined . The Manage 
mnent cannot show any relief when the services of the 
workinen were terminated simpliciter and when there 
is no relief liko reinstatement with back wages with 
effect from 30 - 6 - 1 , 70 and as the peritiorier s art nut 
direct eriployees of the company and as there is no 
cmployer - employee relationship between the company 
aid the petitionery. 

4 . The dispute that is referred to for adjudication 
hy this Tribunal is whether thc Management of 
Singareni Collieries Company Limited , Ramagundam 
Division are justified in terminating the services of 
Metta Lingaiah , Salla Manthaiah and Syed Jani, 
Loading and Unloadirig Mazdoors in the coal screen 
ing plant, Godavari Khan , with effect from 30 - 8 - 1970 ? 

5 . The petitoners , who are threc in number, were 
adrnittedly working as loading and unloading Maz 
dvors under the respondent in the Coal Screening 
Plant at Godavari khani. The Management proposer! 
to send the petitioners as Coal flllers and so they were 
Send to the respondents Doctor M . W . 1 ( Dr . C . Ven 
kateswara Rao ) for medical examination un 28 - 8 - 1970 
and they were found unfit by M . W . 1 . Ex , M 1 M 2 
and M3 are the incdical vicers reports relating to 
the petitioners Metta Lingaiah , Salla Manthaiah and 
Syed Jani respectively . Subsequent to the medical 
reports Exs M1 to M3, the l espondent teğminated the 
Services of the petitioners. In order to show that the 
petitioners were only working as temporary workers 
the itsrondent filed the paysheet Exs.M4, M5 and 
M6 for certain periods. Now it is cominon ground 
that the petitioners were found unfit to work as coal 
fillers in the mines . M . W . 1 did not mention in the 
certificates that the petitioners were unflt for doing 
tven the job of loading and unloading mazdoors in 
the Coal Screening Plant, which they were doing 
prior to their examination by M . W . 1. 

6 . After the scrvices of the petitioners were termi 
nated , they got thmselves examined by the Civil 
Surgcon in the District Headquarters Hospital, 
Karimuagar, W . W . 1 Matta Lingaiah , W .W2 is Salla 
Mantaiah and they are two of the petitioners. Ex . 
W1 is certificate issued by the Civil Surgeon , District 
Headquarters Hospital, Krimnagar to W . W . 1 stating 
that the left eye is effective for which treatment 19 
suggested and that, in the doctors opinion , the visioni 
that the W . W . 1 is having is quite good to perform 
his duties. Ex , W2 is the certificate issued by the same 
Doctor to W . W . 2 . This certificate is to the effect 
that W . W . 2 is a normal person . Ex W . 3 is a similar 
certificate issued by the same Doctor to the other 
pctitioner Syed Jani. Now it has to be seen whether 
the action of the management in icrminating the ser 
vices of the pctitioners is justified . No doubt one 
of the contentions of the respondent is that the peti. 
tioners are only temporary workers and so the reg 
pondent can terminate their services at any time 
inder Order 13 ( c ) of the Standing Orders of the 
Company and that in as much as the present order 
of termination is only an order of termination simpli 
liter , the petitioners cannot raise any objection , But 
the evidence in this case shows that the services of 
the petitioners were terminated because of the medi 
cal certificats issued by MW ) . So, as rightly con 
tended by the learned counsel for the petitioners . 31. 
is only a rolourable exercise of the power but it 
is not a case of an order simpliciter . As already 
stated the petitioners were sent by the respondent 
to M . W . I to see whether the petitioners were fit for 
doing the work of coal Allers. The evidence in this 
case does not at all shows that it is at the request 
of the petitioners for the post of coal Allers that the 
petitioners were sent for medical examination . On the 
other hand the evidence in this case clearly shows that 

the respondent himself sent the petitioners for medical 
pxamination with the idea of giving them the jobs of 
inal Allers in case they were medically found At It 
is seen from Ex . MI to M3 that the petitioners were 
founi unft only for working as coal Allerg . 


3 . The respondent Aled a reply statement contend 
ing as follows. The petitioners are not permanent 
employees of the respondent. It is admitted by the 
pctitioners that the petitioners were proposed by the 
management to send them to work as coal fillers. In 
pursuance of this proposal the three workmen were 
sent to the medical officer on 28 - 8 - 1970 to test their 
physical fitness and the medical officer after examin 
ing them carefully , found them wanting and so dec 
lared them as unfit for employment in the mines . J , 
is not incumbent for the management to state the 
reasons and it is the prerogative of the company tu 
terminate the service of all other employees who are: 
not covered by the Standing Orders . The manage 
ment has the right to ierininate the services of any 
temporary workmen under 13 ( c ) of the Standne 
Orders. The assumption that if the petitioners were 
found unft for the cost of coal fillers they should 31 
least be allowed to work in any casual capacity as 
loading and unloading mazdoors 18 unwarranted . The 
averment that the petitioner s were found it by Civil 
Surgeon of the Government District Headquarters 
Hospital is irrelevant as the medical officer of the 
collieries is the competent certifying officer. The 
reference to one Bharataraju is beyond the issue . 
There is no change or alteration in the nature of 
The work as alleged by the petitioners as they are 
not covered by the Standing Orders. The offer by 
the management to re - examine the petitioners by a 
Medical Board of the Company to find out their 


S & C . 3( )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 

1305 
S . .. - - - - - -- -- 

- - - - - - - 
7. So far as W . W . 1 is concerned , according 10 the petitioners as loading and unloading mazdoors in 
M . W . 1 , he was having hypher tension , 150 / 100 With lhe Coal Screening Plant, which is the work that they 
left venticular hypetrophy and so for this reason he were quins prior to the medical examination and which 
was uniit , According to him so far as the hypher WORK was still available for the petitioners . Without 
tunsion 13 concerned it can only be controlled but adopting to his course of the respondent straight away 
not cured . So far as W . W . 2 is concerned , according cerminated the services of the petitioners on the 
to M . W . 1, he was suffering from pulimory TB. on ground that they were unfit to work as coal Allers, 
the right side and so he was made unfit. He himself certainly such an action of the respondent cannot be 
says that so far as 1 . B . cases are concerned if they jlstilled . The learned counsel for the petitioners also 
are permanent employees they would send the L untended that iſ the petitioners were found inedically 
patients either to Bellarnpalli or to Kothagudem as untit for certain detects they should have been given 
regards their Atness for duty and that the persons an opportunity to get them tested again and that in 
whose names were put to him in the cross examina this case as a matter of fact after they were made 
tion were not made unfit by him though they were untit they approached the Government Doctor who 
T . B . patients because they had improved with the Certified that they were fit for work and so the action 
treatment. He himself admits that the pulmonary of the respondent cannot be justified He relied upori 
TB, can be cured by T . B , specialist when he is asked tlie decision reported in ANGLO - FRENCH MILLS v . 
why W . W . 2 way made unfit, he says that so far as MUNIAMMAL [ 1986 ( I ) LLJ, page 695 ) . In that case 
he is concerned he was made unnt because he was 

the respondent therein was declared by Company s 
á jemporary einployee , At the same time he says Doctor to be of unsound mind and on that report the 
that he does not know the meaning of temporary 

services of the respondent therein were terminated . 
employee but that in the letter sent to him it was Though their Lordships In that case observed that the 
mentioned as temporary employee. So far as W . W , 1 

conduct of the Company was not merely bonafide, but 
is concerned he says that his left eye sight was 6 . 60 

it was for good and sufficient reasons, judged fron the 
and so he made him unlit because, according to the 

point of view of equity and common sense , their Lord 
Mines Act, a person if one defective eye with vision 

ships after considering Article 47 ( c ) of the French 
6 /60 is unfit. He himself admits that the defective Labour Code observed that tlie employer could take 
vigion mentioned in Ex , Mi may be cured by treat & ction to terminate the services of a worker , for men 
ment. According to him W . W . 1 with his defect noted tal or physical incurable infirmity , only after affording 
in Ex . Mi cannot work in Coal Screening Plaut though this opportunity for a cure or at least for a sufficient 
fie inay work on surface . When he is asked why reliabilitation for the worker to be restored to the 
trcatment was not suggcated to these pcrsons he says eflicient performance of duty . Though in the Standing 
that all he can say is that they were sent for medical Orders of the respondent there is no such specific pro 
examination and not for giving any treatment and vision made, stili justice required that the workmen 
so he gave his report as to whether they are fit to 

who were working under the respondent atleast for 
work in and around the mines . He says that it is 

four years should have been given an opportunity to 
the practice in the Collieries to make unfit persons 

get proper treatment before finally making them unlit. 
who had defective vision . At the same time he 

However in this case even th question of giving trat 
admits that he made one Bharataraju and Chandraiah 

ment does not arise because the petitioners never 
unfit due to defective vision and that again he dec applied for the post of coal Allers and so far as the 
lared them fit after one month after they were made detects noted by M . W . 1 are concerned they are not 
unft, since those persons were wearing spects and such defects which could prevent the petitioners from 
since he found them fit with glasscs when he re doing the work of loading and unloading in the Coal 
examined them . His whole evidence now shows that 

Screening Plant. If the petitioners who were all along 
it is because these three persons were said to be 

working as Coal Screening Plant loading and unload 
temporary persons they were not referred to the 

ing mazdoors and who never asked for the job of coal 
hospital at Kothagudem or any treatment was sug fillers are sent for medical examination for isguingu 
gested , 

Certificate as to whether they were fit to work as coal 
fillrs and if their services are terminated on the ground 

that they were unfit to work as coal Allers , certainly 
8 . Even though it is said that it is because the peti guch an action on the part of the respondent is nothing 
tioners were temporary persons they were not given short of victimisatie and unfair labour practice . As 
any further chance . The evidence ofMW . 1 shows that already stated , it is not a case of the resppondent that 
it is only from what was written in the memos sent they were found unfit to work as loading and unloading 
by the Company he came to know that they were mazdoors or that the work in the Coal Screening Plant 
temporary employecg. Now the evidence in this case was closed down and that as the petitionerg being 
shows that the petitioners had worked for atleast four temporary workmen appointed for a limited period 
years prior to the termination of their services. The their services were terminated . The respondent care 
evidence also shows that these persons were working 110t now contend that the order is termination simplici 
as Coal Sercening Plant Loading and unloading maz tor and it is a clear case of unlawful termination but 
doorg. Under Standing Order 2 ( f ) ( iv ) a temporary not a case of bonafide action on the part of the res 
employee is one who is engaged for work which is 61 pondent. On a consideration of the evidence in this 
an essentially temporary in character likely to be case , I am satisfied that the action of the respondent 
finished within a limited period . The nature of the in terminating the services of the petitioners cannot at 
work done by the petitioners prior to the termination all be justified . 
of their services does not show that it was only a 
work of essentially temporary character likely to be 
finished within limited period. It is not the cage of 

9 . For all the aforesaid reasons so far as the dispute 
the respondent that the loading and unloading maz referred for adjudication le concerned I hold that the 
doors in the Coal Screening Plant was only a tempo Management of Singareni Collierics Company Limited , 
rary work which was completed within a limited Ramagundam Division . Pogt Omice : Godavari Khani 
period and so the services of the petitioners were ( AP ) are not justified in terminating the services of 
terminaled . The whole case of the respondent is Sarvasri Metta Lingaiah , Salla Manthalah and Syed 
that in order to past the petitioners as coal Allers they Jani Loading and Unloading mazdoors in the Coal 
were sent for medical examination and that since Screening Plant, Godavari Khani , Ramagundam Divi 
M . W . 1 found them unfit to do the duties of coal fillers sion I with effect from 30th August, 1970 and so the 
their services were terminated. If according to the petitioners are entitled to be reinstated with back 
respondent the petitioners would not be employed as wages. So orders passed by the respondent terminat 
coal Allers and when the evidence also shows that the ing the services of the petitioners are set aside and 
petitioner ncver applied for the job of coal fillers , in the respondent is directed to reinstate the petitioners 
the ugua ) course the respondent should have continued as loading and unloading Mazdoors in the C . S .P . with 


4306 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


(Part ] 


S . O . 2861. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central 
Government hereby publishes the following award 
uſ the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, No . 
3 , Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between the 
employers in rclation to the management of Ena 
Colliery of Messrs North West Coal Company 
Limited , Post Office Dhansar, District Dhanbad and 
their workmen , which was received by the Central 
Government on the 6th October , 1972 , 


effect from 30 - 8 - 1970 and the respondent is also direc 
led to pay the back wages from 30 - 8 - 1970 . 

Dictated to the Stenographer , transcribed by him 
and corrected by me and given under my hand and the 
seul of this Tribunal, this the 14th day of September , 
1912 , 

APPENDIX OF EVIDENCE : 
Witnesses examined 

Witnesses examined 
for Petitioners : 

for Respondent ; 
W . W . 1 ; Metta Lingaiah M . W . 1 : Dr, C . Venkateswar 
W . W . 2 : Salla Manthaiah 

Rao . 
W . W . 3 : Mohd . Afzal. 

Documents exhibited for Petitioners : 
Ex .W1: Medical certificate dated 23rd December 

1970 Issued by Dr. V . Seshagiri Rao Civil 
Surgeon , Specialist and Superintendent Dis 
trict Head Quarters Hospital, Karimnagar to 

Metta Lingaiah , 
Ex .W2: Health and age certificate dated 21st De 

cember 1970 issued by Dr . V . Bhoom Reddy . 
Asstt. Surgeon and Asstt . Professor to Man 

taiah , 
Ex , W . 3 : Health and age certificate dated 21st De 

cember 1970 issued by Dr. V . Bhoom Reddy , 
Asstt . Surgeon and Asstt . Professor in Surgery 

to Syed Jani, 
Ex . W .4 ; Letter dated 31st December 1970 of the 

Secretary , of A . P . Singareni Collieries Maz 
door Sangh , Ramagundam addressed to S . 
Sankarappa Asstt. Labour Commissioner ( C ) . 

Hyderabad , 
Ex. W .5 : Letter dated 15th November 1970 of the, 

Agent, S . C . Co , Ltd ., Ramagundam to The 
Medical Ofñcer , Ramagundam for remedical 

exarnination of two workert . 
Ex . W . 6 : Letter dated 26th November 1970 of the 

Agent S . C . Co . Ltd ., Ramagundam I addressed 
to the Medical Omcer , Ramagundam for re 

medical examination of B . Rajam . 
Ex . W . 7 : Letter dated 16th November 1970 of 

Medical Officer , Ramagundam Division to the 

Agent , Ramagundam I . 
Ex . W .8 : Letter dated 11th December 1970 of Medi 

cal Officer , Ramagundam Division addressed 

to the Agent, Ramagundam I, 
Ex. W . 9 : Letter dated 25th August 1970 of Agent, 

Ramagundam I addressed to the Medical 
Officer , Ramagundam regarding medical exa 

mination , 
Ex . W . 10 : List of T . B . Patients for the ycars 1971 

72 ot Godavari Khani Colliery Ramagundam 
Division 

Documents exhibited for Respondent 
Ex.M1: Medical Officer s report dated 28th August 

1970 in respect of Metta Lingaiah , 
Ex.M2: Medical Officer s report dated 12th July 

1970 in respect of Salla Manthaiah , 
Ex .M3: Medical Officer s report dated 12th July 

1970 in respect of Syed Jani. 
Ex ,M4 ; Pay sheet of the Company Remegundam 

Division for the Daily rate temporary workers 
for week ending 27th August 1966 paid on 2nd 

September 1966. 
Ex .M5 : Pay sheet of the Company , Ramagundam 

Division for the Daily rate temporary maz 
doors for week ending 11th Novembrr , 1967 

nald on 17th November 1967. 
Ex.MA: Pay sheet of the Company Ramagundam 

Division for the daily rate temporary mazdoors 
for week ending month of June, 1968 paid on 
5th July , 1968 . 

( Sd.) P . S . ANANTH , 

INo. 7 / 50 / 70 - LRII 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVT. INDUSTRIAL 

TRIBUNAL NO . 3 , DHANBAD 

REFERENCE No. 24 OF 1970 
PRESENE : 

Sri B . S . Tripathi, Presiding Officer . 
PARTIES; 
Employers in relation to the management of Ena 

Colliery of M / s . North West Coal Co , Ltd ., 
P . O . Dhansar, Distt . Dhanbad . 

AND 
Their workmeni, 
APPEARANCES . 
Fur Employers - Shri J. N . P . Sahi, Labour and 

Law Adviser, Bharat Coking Coal Ltd . 
added as a party vide Order No. 14 , dated the 

23rd March , 1972 . 
For Workmen - Shri S . D . Dasgupta , Joint Gen 

eral Secretary , Colliery Mazdoor Sangh . 
INDUSTRY : Coal 

STATE : Bihar. 
Dated , Dhanbad , the 30th September, 1972 

AWARD 
The present reference arises out of Order No. 
2 / 17 /70- LRII, dated the 274h November , 1970 of the 
Central Government in the Ministry of Labour, Em 
ployment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
& Employment) under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the In 
dustrial Disputes Act, 1947 in relation to an indus 
trial dispute between the parties, mentioned above, 
with respect to the matters specified in the schedule 
of reference which is extracted below : 


SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of the management of Ena Col 

liery of M / S . North West Coal Company Limited , 
Post Office Dhansar, District Dhanbad in 
terininating the services of Shri Doman Mal 
lah , Haulage Khalasi with effect from the 6th 
January, 1969 was justified ? If not , to what 

relief is the workman concerned entitled ? " 
2 . The parties to the reference have Aled thcir 
written statements elaborating their cages relating to 
the reference. I do not however consider necessary 
to mention here their respective claims as in the 
meantime the concerned parties settled the dispute in 
question out of Court amicably and the terms of 
settlement have been embodied in the compromise 
petition signed by the representatives of the respec 
tive parties . The compromise pettiion was received 
by the Tribunal through post and neither the parties 
nor their representatives appeared before the Tribu 
nal to verity the settlement arrived at by the parties . 
The representatives of the parties however turned up 
on receipt of the notice from the Tribunal on 29th 
September , 1972 and they verified before me the dis 
pute between the parties have been amicably settled 
as per terms embodied in the compromise petition and 
prayed for making an award in terms thereof. 


Sec. 3 ( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4307 


3 . I have carefully pergued and considered the terms 
of the settlement in the light of the reference and 
the cases of the parties and I find that the terms are 
quite fair , just and equitable . There is no reason why 
an award shall not be made in terms and conditions 
laid down in the memorandum of settlement and I 
make award accordingly . The memorandum of settle 
ment shall form part of the award and is marked 
Annexure A thereof. 

4 . Let the award be submitted to the Central Gove 
rnrnent Under Section 16 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947. 

( Sd .) B . S . TRIPATHI, 

Presiding Oincer . 

ANNEXURE A 
BEFORE THE HON BLE PRESIDING OFFICER , 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 

(No . 3 ) AT DHANBAD . 
In the matter of : 

REFERENCE No. 24 OF 1970 . 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to Ena Collery of M / s. 
North West Coal Limited . 

And 
Their workmen . 

MEMORANDUM OF SETTLEMENT 
All the parties in the present proceedings have 
amicably settled the dispute involved in the present 
Reference on the terms hereinafter. 

( 1 ) That Sri Doman Mallah ( H . E , Khalasi) the 
workman concerned in the present Reference shall be 
reinstated by the management of Ena Colliery of M / s . 
North West Coal Co . Limited on and from 16th June, 1972 
without any back wages and that he will work as 
H . E . Khalasi for 3 days and as Onsetter for 8 days 
in each week or he may work in another capacity also 
in the mine and paid accordingly as per respective 
category rate . 

( 2 ) That the period intervening from the date of 
termination (which gave rise to the present Reter 
ence ) till the date of resumption of duty shall , for the 
purpose of continuity of services , be treated as leave 
without pay , but the workman concerned will be eli 
gible to proportionate leave or quarterly bonus pro 
vided he puts in proportionate qualifying attendance 
during the remaining period of current year or current 
quarter , as the case may be. 

( 3 ) . In the event of the failure of the concerned 
workman to report for work within a fortnight from 
20th June, 1972 the workman concerned shall have no 
right for re- employment etc . under this agreement. 

( 4 ) The above terms finally resolve the dispute bet 
ween the parties and , therefore , there is no subsisting 
dispute for adjudication in the present Reference 

(5 ) The parties shall bear their own cost of pro 
ceedings. 

It is, therefore, prayed that the Hon ble Tribunal 
may be pleased to accept this Settlement and to give 
its Award in terms thereof. 


For Bharat Coking Coal Ltd . 
J . N . P . SAHI, 

Labour & Law Adviser 
Bharat Coking Coal Ltd . 

(No. 2 / 17 / 70 -LRII. ) 
S . O . 2862 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Gov 
ernment hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, No. 2 , 
Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between the em 
ployers in relation to the management of Pootkeo 
Colliery of Messrs Bhowra Kankanee Colliery Limit 
ed , Post Ofçe Kugunda , District Dhanbad and their 
workmen , which was recelved by the Central Govern 
ment on the 5th October , 1972 . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUS 

TRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO . 2 ) DHANBAD 
PREBENT : 
Shri Nandagiri Venkata Rao, Presiding Officer. 

REFERENCE No. 6 OF 1971 
In the matter of an industrial dispute under S , 10 ( 1 ) 
( d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the management of Poot 

kee Colliery of Messrs Bhowra Kankanee Col 
lieries Limited , Post Omce Kugunda, District 
Dhanbad. 

AND 
Their workmen . 
APPEARANCES : 
On behalf of the employers - Shri S . S . Mukherjee , 

Advocate , 

AND 
Bharat Coking Coal Ltd . 
On behalf of the workmen - Sardar Jagir Singh , 

General Secretary , Minę Karamchari Sangh 
STATE : Bihar. 

INDUSTRY : Coal. 
Dhanbad , the 30th September, 1972 

AWARD 
The Central Government, being of opinion that an 
industrial dispute exists between the employers In 
relation to the management of Pootkee Colliery of 
Messrs Bhowra Kankanee Collieries Limited , Post 
Office Kusunda, District Dhanbad and their work 
men , by its order No . 2 / 26 / 70 - LR . II, dated 11th De 
cember 1970 referred to this Tribunal under Section 
10 ( 1 ) ( d of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 for adju 
dication the dispute in respect of the matters specified 
in the schedule annexed thereto . The schedule is ex 
tracted below : 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of the management of Pootkeo 

Colliery of Messrs Bhowra Kankanee Collieries 
Limited , Post Office Kusunda, District Dhan 
bad was justified in refusing work to Shri 
Sharfuddin , Electric Fitter with effect from 
the 12th September , 1969 ? If not, to what re 

lief is the workman concerned entitled ? " 
2 . Employers as well as the workmen filled their 
statement of demands. The workmen have also fled 
rejoinder to the statement of the employers . 

3 . The dispute 18 as regards refusal of work with 
effect from 12th September 1969 to the affected work 
man . Sharfuddin , Electric Fitter of Pootkee Colliery 
of the employers . Admittedly , the affected workman 
went on leave with effect from 28th January 1967. The 
case of the employers is that the affected workman 
was granted leave on the grounds of domestic affairs 
from 28th January 1987 to 13th February 1967, that 
an application from the effected workman , undated 
was received in the colliery on 20th February 1967 
that on the same day the employers informed him that 


For the Employer 
S . P . CHATTERJEE , 

Manager , 
Ena Colliery 


For the Workmen 


( Sd .) 


( Sd .) S . D . DAS GUPTA , 
Jt. General Secretry , 
Colliery Mazdoor Sangh . 
( Sd .) DOMAN MALLAH, 
Workman concerned , 


4308 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[PART II — 


( ii ) gives an explanation to the satisfaction of 

the manager of his inability to return before 
the expiry of leave . In case the employee 
loses his lien on the appointment he shall be 
entitled to be kept on the Badli list . 


It leave is refused or postponed the fact of such 

rcfusal or postponement and the reasons 
therefor shall be recorded in writing in a 
leave register to be maintained for this pur 
pose and if the employee so desires, a copy 
of such entry in the register shall be supplied 
to him ." 


the extension sought for was refused , that on March 1, 
1967 the employers iniormed him through a letter that 
his lien has been terminated in accordance with tne 
standing orders for remaining absent beyond inu 
period of 8 days after expiry on the granted leave ang 
that the atfected workman came to the colliery on 
19th September , 1969 and filed a petition pleading his 
aliness for the prolonged absence. According to the 
workmen due to his iliness the affected workman had 
sent applications dated 12th February, 1967 and 28th 
February , 1967 under registered post for extension of 
his leave , that after he was declared fit to resume his 
duties on 11th September , 1969 he reported at the 
colliery for duties on 12th September, 1969, that he 
had handed over the postal registration receipts to 
the welfare officer who had promised to allow him 
to resume his duties after consultation with the 
manager and that on 19th September, 1969 be sub 
mitted another application , but it was of no avail. 
In the rejoinder the workmen denied all the allega 
tions made by the meployers which were contrary to 
those taken by the workmen . While the case was 
pending for receipt of documents the colliery was 
taken over by the Government of India under the 
Jharia Coking Coal Mines (Emergency Provisions) 
Ordinance , 1971 and Coking Coal Mines (Emergency 
Provisions ) Act, 1971 with effect from 17th October , 
1971 and on the application of the workmen , at first 
The custodian and the custodian general and then 
the Bharat Coking Coal Ltd . was impleaded a party . 
The Bharat Coking Coal Ltd . also filed a statement 
Flopting the statement of the employers and fur 
ther pleading that there did not exist any relation 
ship of employer and employee between them and the 
affected workman , that there was no Industrial dis 
pute between them and the workmen and that they 
are in no way liable or responsible for any act of the 
past management prior to the date of taking over of 
the colliery . The workmen were represented by 
Sardar Jagir Singh , General Secretary , Mine Karma 
chari Sangh and the employers and Bharat Coking 
Coal Ltd . by Shri S . S . Mukherjee , Advocate. On 
admission by the workmen , Ext , M1 for the employers 
and on admission by the employers , Exts . W . 1 to W . 3 
for the workmen were marked . On behalf of the em 
ployers a witness was examined and Exts . M2 to M6 
were marked . On behalf of the workmen 3 witnesses are 
examined and Exts . W . 4 to W . 9 were marked . No 
witness was examined and no document was marked 
for the Bharat Coking Coal Ltd . 


4 . The affected workman did not return within 8 
days of the leave granted and as such under the above 
clause of the standing orders he lost lien on his em 
ployment automatically . In this view I am supported 
by the decision of the Supreme Court in National En 
gineering Industries Ltd ., Jaipur v . Hanuman (AIR 
1968SC , 33 ) . It is to be remembered that the 
affected workman cannot be exempted from the opera 
tion of clause 11 of the standing orders inasmuch as 
he is not a miner or a loader . The case of the work 
men is that the affected workman had sent two appli 
cations respectively on 12th February , 1967 and 23rd 
February , 1967 for extension of his leave under regis 
tered post . The employers have denied receipt of 
either of the applications. But Ext. Mi is a letter in 
Urdu from the affected workman , admittedly received 
by the employers on 20th February , 1967. It was re 
celyed within 8 days of the expiry of the leave. 
Though there is no express prayer for extension of 
leave the intention of the affected workman , obviously 
was for extension of the leave. There is no law that 
an application for extension of leave from a workman 
should be granted by the employers automatically if it 
is received before the expiry of the leave granted or 
within 8 days thereof . The employer has a discretion 
in the matter to grant the extension prayed for or 
refuse it. Of course , the discretion requires to be 
exercised judicially . In the pleading of the workmen 
as well as in the evidence of the affected workman it 
is stated that even before proceeding on leave the 
affected workman was sick since December, 1966 
under treatment by the colliery medical officer and 
he had applied for and granted leave from 28th Janu 
ary , 1967 on the gorund of his sickness . But his appli 
cation for leave, Ext . M2 clearly states that the leave 
was granted on domestic affairs . The letter , Ext. Mi 
states that the leave granted to the affected workman 
was upto 13th February , 1967 but owing to misfortune 
he had fallen ill due to which he cannot reach hig 
place of work in time and that when he becomes 
normal he would appear. The affected workman , 
WW . 1 says that having gone home he became more 
sick and as such he was under treatment of Dr. Baj 
rang Sahay at Raflaganj from 8th February, 1967 to 
28th August 1967 . It emerges that when he sent, Ext. 
Mi letter the affected workmen was under treatment 
of Dr. Bajrang Sahay . But neither that fact was 
mentioned in the letter, Ext. M1 nor the letter was 
accompanied by any certificate from Dr. Bajrang 
Sahay , In the letter , Ext. M1 there was no period 
mentioned for which extension was sought for. Under 
the circumstances it cannot be said that the employer 
were not justified in refusing the extension of leave or 
that they were actuated by any motive in rejecting 
the extension applied for. Neither it is pleaded nor 
proved that there was any cause for the employers to 
victimise the affected workman . According to the 
employers they sent a letter on 20th February , 1987, 
Ext. M3 and subsequently one more on Ist March 1967 , 
Ext. M4 to the affected workman pointing out that 
the extension was refused and he had lost lien on his 

appointment. These letters are denied by the work 
men , MW . 1 could not prove satisfactorily that these 


3 . It is an admitted position that the affected work 
man was granted leave from 28th January , 1967. Ext. 
M2 is the leave application of the affected workman 
and it points out that the leave was granted from 
28th January, 1967 to 13th February , 1967. Ext. W2 is 
a letter of the affected workman in Urdu and it clearly 
states that the leave was granted upto 13th February , 
1967. Therefore , the affected workman was to report 
for duties on 14th February , 1967. But, admittedly , he 
reported for duty in the month of September , 1969, a 
period of more than 25 years . The certified standing 
orders governing the colliery are Ext. M6 and clause 
11 thereof is as following : - 


" Any direct employee of the company other than 

a miner or loader who desires to obtain leave 
of absence shall apply in writing to the head 
of his department or the manager of the col 
liery . Employees who due to illiteracy do 
not apply in writing must apply verbally . If 
the employee remains absent beyond the 
period of leave originally granted or subse 
quently extended he shall lose his llen on his 
appointment unless : 


8 days of the expiry 


of 


( i ) he returns within 

the leave, and 


Sec . 3(1 ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4309 


Central Government Industrial Tybunal, No. 3 , Dhan 
bad , in the Industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the management of Ena Colliery belonging 
to Messrg North Western Company Limited , Post 
Onice Dhangar , District Dhanbad and their workmen , 
which was received by the Central Government on the 
6th October , 1972 . 


REFERENECE No . 46 OF 1970 
Present : 

Sri B . S. Tripathi, Presiding Officer. 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the management of Ena 

Colliery belonging to M / s . North West Coal 
Co . Ltd ., P . O . Dhansar, Dist . Dhanbad . 

AND 
Their workmen , 
APPEARANCES ; 
For Employers . - Shri J . N . P . Sahi Labour and Law 

Adviser of Bharat Coking Coal Ltd ., - added ag 
a party vide Order No. 10 dated the 23rd 
March , 1972 . 


For Workmen .- Shri S . Dasgupta , Joint General 

Secretary , Colliery Mazdoor Sangh , 


INDUSTRY : Coal. 

STATE : Bihar. 
Dated , Dhanbad, the 30th September , 1972 , 


letters were received by the affected workman . But 
there is no duty cast on the employers to inform & 
workman that the extension sought for by him wag 
rejected or that he had lost llen on his appointment. 
A workman on leave cannot gave himself from the 
operation of Clause 11 of the standing orders by 
merely sending a letter for extension of leave and stay 
away for years together on the ground that the em 
ployers did not inform him of rejection of his leave . 
The affected workman , WW . 1 says that a person by 
name Rahamatullah , belonging to his own village 
works at the colliery as a minor and the affected 
workman used to write letters to Rahamatullah In 
forming him about his ( affected workman s ) sickness 
and requesting him to report the same to the man 
agement and request for extension of his leave. Raha 
matullah is examined as wW . 2 and he supports the 
statement of the affected workman , WW . 1 . But Raha 
matullah , wW . 2 does not say that any time during 
the last 21 years he made enquiry in the office of the 
manager as to the fate of the letter , Ext, M1 sent by 
the affected workman . Under these circumstances it 
does not appear that the silence on the part of the 
affected workman for as long a period as more than 
2 years was bona fide . According to the affected 
workman he appeared at the colliery for duties on 
12th September , 1969 and he was refused work . I 
consider that the employers were justified in doing so 
inasmuch as the affected workman had already lost 
llen on his appointment 23 years back , 

5 . Among the objections taken by the Bharat Coking 
Coal Ltd . the one relating to their liability is crucial, 
Their contention is that they are not responsible to 
discharge the liability incurred by the previous man 
agement. Pending the reference before this Tribunal 
the Government of India took over the management 
of 214 coking coal mines, including the Pootkee col 
llery of the instant case . The Bharat Coking Coal 
Ltd . is a Government company . Under the provisions 
of the Ordinance and the Act under which the colliery 
was taken over the Administration or management of 
the colliery was taken over by the Government of 
India as a running concern with all its properties and 
assets . No part of the management, administration , 
property or assets relating to the colliery seems to 
have been left with the previous management. All the 
workmen of the colliery as they were under the pre 
vious management were taken over without any 
break in service. Consequently , all of them have 
become employees of Bharat Coking Coal Ltd . The 
decision of the Supreme Court in Bihar State Road 
Transport Corporation v . State of Bihar ( 1970 - 11 - L . L . 
J . 138 ) is a case on the point. In view of this decision 
I have no hesitation to hold that Bharat Coking Coal 
Ltd . is successor - in - title of the previous management 
as far as the colliery is concerned . But in the instant 
case the question of liability of the Bharat Coking Coal 
Ltd ., does not arise, for the action of the previous 
management itself does not give rise to any liability , 

6 . I, therefore , find that the action of the manage 
ment of Pootkee colliery of Messrs Bhowra Kankanee 
collieries Limited , Post Office Kusunda , District 
Dhanbod was justified in refusing work to the affected 
workman , Sharfuddin , Electric Fitter with effect from 
the 12th September, 1969 and consequently , he is not 
entitled to any relief. The award is made accordingly 
and submitted under S . 15 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947. 

(Sd . ) N . VENKATA RAO, 

Presiding Omcer , 
Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal 

(No. 2 ) , Dhanbad . 

[No. 2 / 26 / 70 - LRII. ) 


AWARD 
The Central Government in the Ministry of Labour 
Employment & Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment) being of the opinior: that an Indugt 
rial dispute exists between the parties named above 
referred the dispute Under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the In 
dustrial Disputes Act, 1947 by its Order No . 2 / 82 / 70 
LRII dated the 19th August, 1970 to this Tribunal for 
adjudication with respect to matters specified in the 
schedule annexed thereto . The schedule is extracted 
below : 


SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of the management of Ena 

Colliery belonging to M / s . North West Coal 
Co . Ltd ., P . O . Dhansar, Digt. Dhanbad , in 
changing the mode of grant of sick leave from 
14 days with full pay to 30 days with half pay 
with effect from the 27th February , 1970 18 
justified ? If not to what relief are the work 
men entitled ? ! 


2 . The parties to the reference have fled their res 
pective written statements in justifcation of their 
claims. I do not consider it necessary to mention the 
cases of the parties appearing in their written state 
ments in as much as the dispute between them has been 
settled amicably out of Court. The terms of settlement 
have been embodied in the memorandum of settlement 
which has been duly signed by the authorised represen 
tatives of the parties . The parties or their authorised 
representatives did not turn up on the date Alxed to 
verify the settlement in question . However the autho 
rised representatives of the parties appeared before me 
on 29th September , 1972 and they verifed the memo 
randum of settlement and submitted that an award be 
made in terms of the settlement in question . 

3 . I have carefully perused and considered the terms 
of the settlement in the Ught of the reference and the 
cases of the parties and I And that the terms are quite 
fair and reasonable . I see no reason why an award 
shall not be made in terms and conditions of the memn . 


S . O . 2863,-- In pursuance of section 17 of the Indust 
rial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central Gov 
ernment hereby publishes the following award of the 


4310 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 . 1894 


[PART II — 


BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (CENTRAL ) 

AT DHANBAD 


randum of settlement and I make the award according 
ly . The memorandum of settlement shall form part of 
the award and is attached thereto as Annexure A . 

4 . Let the award be submitted to the Central Gov 
ernment under Section 15 of Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947. 


PRESENT: 

Sri P . S . Ananth , B .Sc., B . L ., Chairman , Industrial 


B . S TRIPATHI, Presiding Officer , 


ANNEXURE A 


BEFORE THE HON BLE PRESIDING OFFICER , 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 

(NO . 3 ) AT DHANBAD 


Industrial Dispute No. 81 of 1971 
BETWEEN : 
The Workmen of Singareni Co lieries Company 

Limited , Ramaundam Division , No . 1, ( R . O . ) 
Godavari Khani, A . P . 

AND 
The Management of Şingareni Collieries Company 

Limited, Ramagundam Division , No. 1, ( P . O .) 
Godavari Khani, A . P . 


In the matter of : 


REFERENCE No. 46 OF 1971 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to Ena Colliery of Messrs 

North West Coal Co . Ltd , 


AND 


Their workmen , 


Memorandum of Settlement 


Sri A . Raghuramulu , Vice- President, A . P . Singareni 

Collieries Mazdoor Sangh - -for workmen . 
Sri M . Shyam Mohan , Personnel Officer , and Sri 

P . Papa Rao , Div ., Personnel Officer for 
management. 

AWARD 
The Government of India , Ministry of Labour, Em 
ployment and Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour 
and Employment) by its Order No, L / 2112 / 30 / 71 - T- R 
II , dated 8th November , 1971 , referred the following 
dispute under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Dis 
putes Act, 1947 (hereinafter referred to as the said 
Act) to this Tribunal, for adjudication , namely : 

" Whether the management of Ramagundam Divi 


All the parties in the present proceedings have aml 
cably settled the dispute inyolved in the present 
Reference on the terms hereinafter stated : 

( 1 ) That the workmen concerned in the present Refer 
ence shall be allowed by the management of Ena Col 
liery of M / s . North West Coal Co . Ltd . from 1 - 1 - 1972 
15 days sick leave with full pay in case of monthly 
rated workmen . 

( 2 ) The aforesaid management shall pay a sum of 
Rs. 100 ( R .11pees one hundred only ) as cost of proceedings 
to Joint General Secretary, Colliery Mazdoor Sangh . 

( 3 ) The above terms finally resolve the dispute bet 
ween the parties and , therefore, there is no subsisting 
dispute for adjudication in the present Reference , 

It is , therefore , prayed that the Hon ble Tribunal 
may be pleased to accept this Settlement and to give 
its Award in terms thereof , 
For the Employers : 

For the Workmen : 
S . P . CHATTERJEE , 

· S. DAS GUPTA , 
Manager , 

Joint General Secretary , 
Ena Colllery . 

Colliery Mazdoor Sangh . 


was justified in refusing to give the scale of 
Rs. 205 – 337 with effect from the 19th Novem 
ber , 1968 , to Sarvashri Ch . Ellalah A . Rajaiah , 
V . Narsinga Rao and S . Satyanarayana, Tur 
bine Attendants in Power House , Ramagun 
dam ? If not, to what relief are the said work 

men entitled " 
This reference was taken on Ale as Industrial Dispute 
No. 81 of 1971 and notices were issued to the parties . 
For the purpose of convenience the claimants , who are 
the workmen of Singareni Collierles Company Limited , 
Ramagundam Division , are referred to as the petitioners 
and the Singareni Collieries Company Limited , Rama 
gundam Division , is referred to as the respondent in 
the course of this Award . 


For Bharat Coking Coal Ltd . : 

J . N . P . SAHI, 
Labour and Law Adviser, 

Bharat Coking Coal Ltd . 
Dated 5th August, 1972. 

[No. 2 / 82 / 70- LRII.] 


New Delhi, the 11th October 1972 
8 . O . 2864 ,- - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby publishes the following award of the Cen 
tral Government Industrial Tribunal, Hyderabad , in 
the industrial dispute between the employers in rela 
tion to the management of Ramagundam Division - I of 
Singareni Collicries Company Limited , Post Omce 
Godavari Khani ( Andhra Pradesh ) and their workmen . 
which was received by the Central Government on the 
4th October, 1972 


2 . The petitioners are represented by Andhra Pra 
desh Singareni Collieries Mazdoor Sangh (hereinafter 
referred to as the said Sangh ) and the Vice - President 
of the said Sangh Aled the claims statement contend 
ing as follows: The petitioners are permanent employees 
under the respondent. All these four persons were 
working as Junior Drillers in the Prospecting Depart 
ment of the respondent in the scale of Rs. 180273 
till 25th August, 1967. With effect from 26th August, 
1987, the petitioners were transferred to the Power 
House at Ramagundam . On transfer to the Power 
House the respondent stopped the payment of Rs. 30 . 00 
per month paid as allowance to cach of the petitioners 
every month till 25th August, 1967, and continued pay . 
ment of wages in the scale of 180 — 273. In the Power 
House these four workmen were engaged in doing the 
work of erection of turbines under the direct supervl 
sion of erection engineers and experts. The Arst tur 
bine was commissioned on 19th November, 1988 , and the 
second turbine was commissioned in July, 1969. Ever 
since the transfer of these four persons they attendent 
to the work relating to the turbines . As per the wages 
schedule the turbinę attendants are placed in the grade 


Sec. 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / AŞVINA 29, 1894 


43 II 


dam Division -I of Singareni Collleries Company Limit 
ed was justified in refusing to give the scale of 
Rs. 205 - 337 with effect from the 19th November, 1968 , 
to Saryashri Ch . Ellaiah , A . Rajaiah , V . Narsinga Rao 
and S . Satyanarayana , Turbine Attendents in Power 


workmen entitled ? 


of Rs. 205 – 337. Though these four persons as of right 
are entitled for the grade of Rs. 205 - 337 from the 
date they were transferred to the power house, having 
regard to the fact that the first turbine started working 
from 19th November , 1968 , and that all power house 
staff was put on probation from 19th November , 1968 , 
the petitioners claim that they should be placed in the 
grade of Rs. 205- 337 atleast from 19th November , 1968. 
Rejecting the just and lawful claim of the workmen 
the respondent started paying the wages of turbine 
attendant in the grade of Rs. 205 – 337 with effect from 
1st June, 1909 . The payment of wages is a condition 
of service . No change can be effected as regards the 
wages without following the procedure laid down under 
Section 9 ( A ) of the said Act. Notice under Section 
9 ( A ) dated 22nd September , 1968, was given eilecting 
change in conditions of service of these four workmen 
with effect from 13th October , 1968 . As such under no 
circumstances the respondent is justified in paying the 
reduced wages of Junior Driller till 13th October , 1968 , 
So wages in the scale of Rs. 205 - - 337 with effect from 
19th November , 1968 , and allowance at the rate of 
Rs. 30 .00 per month each from 26th August, 1967, to 
18th November, 1968, should be paid and if not an 
allowance at the rate of Rs. 30 . 00 per month each 
from 26th August , 1967 to 31st May, 1969 , should be 
paid , 


5 . The relevant facts as gathered from the evidence 
on record may be briefly stated . The petitioners were 
originally working in the Prospecting Department of 
the respondent as Junior Drillers and they were in . 
the grade of Rs. 43 – 82 and they were also getting a 
special allowance of Rs. 30 per month . According to 
the petitioner they were entitled to the allowance of 
Rs. 30 . 00 per month as special allowance whereas the 
contention of the respondents representative is that 
this allowance of Rs. 30 .00 was given to them while 
working in the Prospecting Department only as " Jun 
gle Allowance whenever they worked in the site . 
When power house at Godavari Khani in Ramagun 
dam was under construction , the petitioners were 
transferred to Power House as seen from the evidence 
of M . W . 1 ( A . M . Mathew ) , who is working as Senior 
Divisional Engineer , Power House , Godavari Khani. It 
is seen that the petitioners were given training on the 


3 . The respondent Aled a counter contending as 
follows: All the petitioners working as Assistant Dril 
lers in the scale of Rs. 180 — 273 till their transfer 
having been found surplus at that time in the Prospec 
ting Department were put at Power House to get train 
ing as Turbine attendants. The power house was under 
erection and the first turbine started functioning satis 
factorily in June , 1960 . After that they were put on 
training as Turbine Drivers and they were paid acting 
allowance from 1st June, 1969, and they were promoted 
as Turbine Drivers from 1st October , 1969 , in the grade 
of Rs. 205 – 337 . Attending to work relating to turbine 
means only attending to work regarding completion of 
turbine erection etc., and it should not been working 
as Turbine Drivers . The duties and responsibilities 
attached to Turbine Drivers are quite different from 
that of attending to work relating to Turbine erection , 
So it is , baseless and untrue to say that these persons 
were working as Turbine Drivers since they came to 
the Power House . While it is true that the grade of 
Turbine Drivers is Rs . 205 -- - 337 , it should not automa 
tically mean that these persons who were originally 
Junior Drillers at the time of transfer , should be given 
this grade as soon as they come to power house . It 
is not correct to say that these persons have done the 
job of erection of Turbine. It is a contractor firm that 
has done the erection . They were engaged on the job 
training with the payment of due acting allowance 
from 1st June , 1969 . Subsequently they were promoted 
as turbine drivers from 1st October , 1969 . Even after 
transfer to the Power House till their promotion as 
Turbine Drivers on 1st October, 1969, they were getting 
their due wages as Junior Drillers besides the acting 
allowance As Turbine Driver from 1st June, 1969. The 
special allowance of the petitioners is called " Jungle 
Allowance " of Rs. 30 . 00 per month and this allowance 
is payable only to the staff of the prospecting Depart 
ment who work in camps or in jungles as the case 
may be. Il boring operations are conducted in a 
junglę area , jungle allowance will be paid to workers 
at the rate specified for the workers who attend to 
duty for at least four days in a week . Since the peti 
tioners were working from August, 1967 at Power House 
till their promotion the payment of jungle allowance 
therefore does not arise . The special allowance is not 
being paid to any one in the Prospecting Department 
who do not work in the camp site . So the allegations 
made by the petitioner in this regard are not true and 
not based on facts and so the claim of the petitioners 
is liable to be dismissed . 


bine Drivers. After the petitioners were transferred 
to the Power House they were paid the special 
allowance of Rs. 30 .00 for some time and afterwards 
it was stopped , and when the petitioners were intimat 
ed that the special allowance paid to them till August, 
1967, to June, 1968 by oversight would be deducted , 
they sent an application the original of Ex . W . 1 dated 
21st July , 1968, to M . W . I stating that they may be 
given the scale of Rs. 205 - - 337 from August, 1967, in 
case they decided to make the deduction of special 
allowance paid and that if the said scale is not given 
and it any deduction is made it would be illegal deduc 
tions. Now in the claims statement it is prayed that 
the respondent should be directed to pay the wages 
in the scale of Rs. 205 - 337 with effect from 19th 
November, 1968, and allowance at the rate of Rs. 30 .00 
per month each from 26th August , 1967, to 18th Novem 
ber , 1968, or pay the allowance at the rate of Rs. 30 
per month from 26th August , 1967 , to 31st May , 1969 . 
So far as the payment of allowance of Rs. 30 .00 per 
month is concerned , it is not covered by the reference 
and though the parties have let in some evidence as 
regards the payment of this allowance any finding now 
given on the question of the special allowance of 
Rs. 30 . 00 would be beyond the scope of the reference . 
So I do not propose to say anything about the special 
allowance that was given to the petitioners and it is 
open to the petitioners to take such other steps that 
they may be advised in the matter , so far as the ques 
tion of special allowance is concerned . 


6 . So far as the Power House is concerned , the evi 
dence in this case is that the Arst turbine was com 
missioned in November , 1968 and that the second tur 
bine was commissioned subsequently and now the 
evidence of M . W . 1 is that the position of the Power 
House from November, 1968, to October, 1969 , was only 
on a trial basis , 

7. It is seen from Ex . W , 2 , which is a copy ot the 
representation dated 20th October , 1968, made by the 
petitioners , that that representation was made in view 
of the notice given by the respondent dated 22nd 
September , 1968 , intending to change the service condi 
tions by discontinuing the special allowance of Rs. 30 .00 
per month from 13th October , 1968. A perusal of Ex . 
W . 2 also shows that the petitioners referred to their 
application , the original of Ex . W . 1 in it and stated that 
though they had sent that application and requested 
that their employment might be changed in accordance 
with the nature of duties assigned to them and that 
the appropriate scale of Rs. 205 - 337 may be given 
Instead of giving that scale the management had given 
the notice stating that the remuneration would be re 
duced without changing their designations and so the 


4 . The dispute that is referred to this Tribunal for 
adjudication is whether the management of Ramagun 


4312 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29 , 1894 


(PART II - 


request to designate them as Turbine Drivers in the 
scale of Rs. 205 – 337 may be conceded . Subsequent 
to the original of Ex . W . 2 there is nothing to show 
whether the request of the petitioners were considered 
or not. Ex . W . 3 is the copy of the notice dated 19th 
November , 1968, issued by M . W . 1 which is to the effect 
that as advised by the General Manager all persons 
working in the Power House for maintenance and run 
ning staff would be on probation for a period of six 
months . Another notice the original of Ex , W . 4 dated 
28th May, 1969, was issued by M . W . 1 which is to the 
effect that the operation staff would be fixed in diffe 
rent categorieg 28 per the Wage Board Recommenda 
tions and that they would be paid acting allowance 
wherever there was difference in the present category 
and the proposed category from 1st June, 1969 , till 
13th August , 1969, after which they would be made 
permanent in the categories depending upon the satis 
factory reports regarding performance of their duties. 
Later on the respondent issued office orders the origi 
nals of Exs. M . i to M . 4 dated 23rd October, 1969, to 
the present petitioners appointing them as Turbine 
Drivers on an initial salary of Rs . 205 .00 per month in 
the Grade of Rs. 205 - 337 on probation for a period of 
six months with effect from 1st October , 1969. In view 
of the order the originals of Exs. M . 1 to M , 4 , the 
petitioners were placed in the grade of Rs. 205 - 337 
only from 1st October , 1969 . Now the claim of the 
petitioners is that as the Arst turbine started working 
from 19th November , 1968 , and as all the power house 
staff was put on probation from 19th November , 1968 , 
they should have been placed in the grade of Rs. 205 – 
337 at least from 19th November , 1968 . Now it has to 
be seen whether this claim of the petitioners is justif 
ed . 


on the Turbine side prior to June 1969 and when he 
recommended the other persons according to him , in 
April of May , 1969, in the usual course even if W . W . 1 
requested him to recommend his case , he could not 
have recommended W . W . l s case also because his 
evidence is to the effect that it is only from June, 
1969, that W . W . 1 was given training on the Turbine 
side. So I am satisfied that even by June, 1969 W . W . 1 
worked on the turbine side along with the other peti 
tioners and that that is why W . W . 1 recommended his 
case also along with the other petitioners. 

9 . Now it is seen from the original of Ex . W . 3 
that particular notice dated 19th November, 1968, 
was issued intimating all the persons working in the 
Power station for maintenance and running staff that 
they would be on probation for a period of six months 
and that this notice was issued as advised by the Depu 
ty General Manager. Now it is only in view of the 
notice Ex , W . 3 that the petitioners contention is that 
they should have been given the grade of Rg. 205 - 337 
from 19th November, 1968 , but not from 1st October, 
1969 . The learned counsel for the petitioners con 
tended that under Clause 2 ( b ) (11) a probationer is one 
who is provisionally employed to All in a permanent 
vacancy and has not completed three months service 
in that post and so in the usual course if any person is 
placed on probation it should be only for a period of 
three months, but not for a period of six months and 
$ 0 placing the petitioners on probation for a period 
of six months It itself opposed to the Standing Orders . 
However it is not necessary to go into this aspect of 
the matter , because the whole question now to be con 
sidered is whether the petitioners should have been 
placed in the grade of Rs. 205 – 337 from 19th Novem 
ber , 1968, as contended by the petitioners or whether 
the action of the respondent in placing the petitioners 
in the grade of Rs. 205 – 337 from 1st October , 1969 , 
is correct . If Ex . W . 3 is taken into consideration 
then the petitioners would be deemed to have been 
placed on probation from 19th November , 1968 . Evi 
dently the notice Ex, W . 3 was issued because of the 
fact that the first Turbine was commissioned in Novem 
her, 1968. If Ex . W . 3 is taken into consideration then 
in the usual course after the completion of the pro 
bation the petitioners should have been placed in the 
grade of Rs. 205 – 337 with effect from 19th Novomber , 
1968. 


8 . So far as the petitioners are concerned the evidence 
of M . W . 1 is that the petitioners continued to be only 
Junior Drillers till 1969 ( .e . ) subseqcently to their 
transfer to the power house also that as W . W . 1 was 
the Junior most he was put as a clerk in the stores 
and the other three petitioners were given work some 
times on the turbine side and that it is only from 
June , 1969 that W . W . 1 was given training on the 
turbine side, that out of the petitioners he first recom 
mended three persons excluding W . W . 1 in April, or, 
May , 1969 for being taken on the turbines , that then 
W . W . 1 approached him and said that he also being 
the Junior Driller he should also be given a chance 
as Turbine Driver and so he recommended his casc 
also . So the evidence of M . W . 1 shows that it is only 
from June, 1969 , that W . W , 1 was given training on 
tho turbine side and that when he recommended the 
cage of the other three petitioners, since W . W . I also 
approached him he also recommended his case. Ac 
cording to W . W . 1 when they were transferred to the 
Power House they worked under foreign engineers 
when erection was going on , that they were given 
training in the turbines, that the erection and trial 
went on till November , 1968, and that M . W . 1 and the 
Rumanlan Engineers were also instructing them at the 
time of eracting the power house . He admits that when 
he came to the power house he was doing the duties 
at the stores only for some time. According to him 
he worked in the stores for about five or six months 
and that thereafter he was working in the erection , Şo 
even from the evidence of w . W . 1 it is seen that he 
was working in the stores for some time. But it has 
to be seen whether W . W . 1 worked only for about five 
or six months as stated by him or till June, 1969 , as 
stated by M . W . 1. At this stage reference may be 
made to Ex . W . 2 . W . W . 1 has also signed in that 
representation dated 20th October , 1968, which was in 
reply to the notice of the management dated 22nd 
September, 1968 , wherein the conditions of service were 
sought to be changed by stopping the special allowance 
of Rs. 30 . 00 . The petitioners including W . W . 1 had 
also claimed the scale of Rs 205 – 337. Evidently 
M . W . 1 is making a mistake when he says that only 
from June , 1969, that w . W . 1 was given training on 
the Turbine side. It really W . W . 1 , was not working 


10 , Now it is contended by the respondent s repre 
sentative that it is only due to some mistake that this 
notice was issued on those lines and that the petition 
erg are taking advantage of this mistake of the date 
and that it is only Exş. M . 1 to M . 4 which are the rele 
vant documents and that it is only under these orders 
that the petitioners were appointed as Turbine Drivers 
and placed on probation and so the respondent ig per 
fectly correct in giving the grade of Rs. 205 – 337 with 
effect from 1st October 1969. No doubt it is seen from 
Exs, M . I to M , 4 that the petitioners were appointed 
as Turbine Drivers with effect from 1st October , 1989. 
Normally , no doubt, in view of Exs. M . i to M . 4 it 
can be said that the petitioners were appointed as Tur 
bine Drivers with effect from 1st October , 1969 . But 
in this case there are other documents and other evi 
dence to show that the petitioners had been working 
in the power house on the turbine side from a date 
prior to 1st October , 1969 . So if the management issued 
any orders which are contradictory certainly the emp 
loyees can take advantage of the earliest order in their 
lavour and insist that they should have been given the 
particular grade from the date mentioned in the earliest 
document. M . W . 1 says that the originals of Exs. W , 3 
and W . 4 were signed by him , that all the petitioners 
were on probation first and that action was taken as 
per the original of Ex . W . 4 . If Exs, W . 3 and W . 4 
are taken into consideration then , certainly , the Orders 
the originals of Ex, M , 1 to M , 4 passed by the manage 
ment cannot be sustained . Ex , W . 3 clearly shows 
that after the first Turbine was commissioned all the 
staff in the power house connected with the mainte 
nance and running were placed on probation for a 


Sec. 3(ü )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVÍNA 29 , 1894 


4313 


1969 and that the respondent should pay the difference 
of wages between 19th November, 1968 , and 30th Sep 
tember , 1969 , to the petitioners within a month from 
the date of the publication of the award . 


Award is passed accordingly . 
Dictated to the Stenographer , transcribed by him and 
corrected by me and given under my hand the seal of 
this Tribunal, this the 2nd day of September , 1972 , 

P . S . ARAUTH , 

Industrial Tribunal. 
APPENDIX OF EVIDENCE : 


Witnesses examined 


Witnesses examined 


for workmen : 


for employers : 


W . W . 1 S . Satyanarayana. 


M . W . 1 A . M . Mathew . 


Documents exhibited for workmen : 


Ex . W . 1 


period of six months and Ex , W . 3 also shows that it 
is only pursuant to the order of the Deputy General 
Manager that M . W . 1 Issued that notice . Ex. W . 4 
which is dated 28th May, 1969, also shows that the 
operation stall would be Axed in different categories 
as per the Wage Board Recommendations and that they 
would be paid the acting allowance . The evidence of 
M . W . 1 is that the petitioner were being given acting 
allowance . Now he wants to say that the period from 
November , 1968 to 28th May, 1969, was not considered 
as probationary period and that it was considered only 
as training period . When once he himself had issued 
the notices the originals of Ex . W . 3 and W . 4 , his 
present evidence that the period from November , 1968 , 
to 28th May , 1969 , was not considered as probationery 
period and that so far as the period from 28th May, 
1969 , to lst October , 1969, is concerned he must have 
advised the management that their probation should be 
extended cannot at all be accepted . If in spite of 
Ex . W . 3 the management issued different orders subse 
quently , certainly those orders cannot be valid orders . 
The respondents representative no doubt contended 
that when it is a case of promotion and when an em 
ployee is appointed for the first time in the newly creat 
ed post, even the seniormost employee will have no 
right and that it is left to the Management to fix up 
Any employee and he relied upon the decision reported 
in Vishnu Sugar Mills v . their workmen ( 1960 
( II ) LLJ, page 272 — Supreme Court ] . But so far as 
the present case is concerned it is not a case where the 
petitioners are claiming any promotion to the new post . 
All that the petitioners say is that they should have 
been given the grade from 19th November , 1968, as 
per the earlier documents of the management but not 
from 1st October, 1969, and now the petitioners have 
satisfactorily entablished that it is only from 19th 
November, 1968 , that they were placed on probation 
for the Arst time. So if the management had taken 
into its head to issue some other orders subsequently 
quite contrary to their earlier orders without any 
reason or rhyme certainly the petitioners cannot be 
bound by any such orders , I am unable to accept the 
contention of the respondent s representative that the 
petitioners are taking advantage of the mistake in the 
date and are claiming that their grade should be fixed 
from 19th November, 1988 . No doubt it is also contend 
ed by the respondent s representative that the peti 
tioners after receiving increments raised their protest 
only in the month of June, 1971, and that the manage 
ment had acted only bonafide, but from Exs. W . 1 
and W . 2 it is clear that they have been agitating for 
this grade of Rs. 205 – 337 even from August, 1968 . 
So there is no force in the contention of the respon 
dent s representative that the petitioners had made only 
a belated demand. On a consideration of the entire 
evidence in this case I am satisfied that the respondent 
is not justified in refusing to give the scale of 
Rs. 205337 with effect from 19th November , 1968. 


Letter dated 21st July, 1968 , of four 
Junior Drillers addressed to the Erection 
Engineer , Power House regarding special 
allowance , 


Ex. W . 2 


Letter dt. 20th October, 1968 of four 
junior Drillers addressed to the Agent, 
Ramagundam Division -I regarding special 
allowance . 


Ex . W . 3 


Notice dt. 19th November, 1968 issued by 
Erection Engineer, 18 M . W . Power Station 
stating all the persons working in power 
station would be on probation for a period 
of 6 months. 


Ex . W .4 


Notice dt. 28th May, 1969 of Erection 
Engineer, 18 M . W . Power station regard 
ing fixing of different categories as per 
Wage Board recommendations acting 
allowance and permançncy to operational 
staff . 


11 . For all the aforesaid reasons so far as the dispute 
referred to this Tribunal is concerned I hold that the 
management of Ramagundam Division - I of Singareni 
Collleries Company Limited was not justified in refus 
ing to give scale of Rs. 205 – 337 with effect from 19th 
November , 1968, to Sarvasri Ch . Ellaiah , A . Rajalah , V . 
Narsinga Rao and S . Satyanarayana, Turbine Atten 
dents in the Power House, Ramagundam and that they 
are entitled to the scale of Rs. 205 – 337 with effect 
from 19th November, 1968, instead of from 1st October , 


Ex , M . 1 


Documents exhibited for employers: 

Copy of the appointment order dt. 23rd 
October , 1989 of the company communi 
cated to Sri S . Satyanarayana , 


4314 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[PART II 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


Ex , M . 2 


Copy of the appointment order dt. 23rd 
October, 1969 of the company communi 
cated to A . Rajaiah , 


December , 1971, and further denying him per 
manancy in the post of Fitter Helper is justi 
fied ? If not, to what relief is the workmen 
entitled and from what date ? " 

[ No. L / 2012 / 23 / 72 - LRII , ] 
KARNAIL SINGH, Under Secy . 


Ex . M . 3 


Copy of the appointment order dt. 23rd 
October , 1969 of the company communi 
cated to V , Narasimha Rao . 
Copy of the appointment order at. 23rd 
October , 1969 of the company communi 
cated to Ch . Ellaiah , 


Ex. M . 4 


श्रम और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय 
( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 

प्रादेश 
नई दिल्ली , 15 मितम्बर , 1972 


( Sd.) P . S. ANANTH, 


Industrial Tribunal. 


[ No. L- 2112 / 30 / 71-LRII. ] 


का०मा० 2865 - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे 
उपाबर अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में सेन्दरा यांमजोरा 
कोलियारी, जो इस समय भारत कोकिंग कोल लिमिटेड के प्रबन्धतंत्र 
के अधीन है, डाक घर झरिया , जिला धनबाद के प्रबन्धतंत्र से 
सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक प्रौद्योगिक 
विवाद विद्यमान है । 


ORDER 


New Delhi, the 15th September 1972 


और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विधाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के 
लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय समझती है ; 


S. O . 2865.---- Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the management of Sendra 
Bansjora Colliery at present under the management 
of Bharat Coking Coal Limited Post Office Jharia , Dis 
trict Dhanbad, and their workmen in respect of the 
matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


अतः, अब , औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 
का 14 ) की धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खगड ( घ ) द्वारा 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा 
उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7 - क के अधीन गठित 
केन्द्रीय सरकार औद्योगिक प्रधिकरण, ( संक्या 1 ) धनबाद को 
न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 


And whereas the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause (d ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Cen 
tral Government hereby refers the said dispute for 
adjudication to the Central Government Industrial Tri 
bunal (No. 1 ) , Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A 
of the said Act . 


अनुसूची 
" क्या मेन्दरा बांस जीरा कोलियरी का प्रबन्धतंत्र जो इस समय 
मैसर्स भारत कोकिंग कोल लिमिटेड के प्रबन्धतंत्र के अधीन 
है , डाकवर झरिया , जिला धनबाद के प्रवन्धतन्त्र की श्री 
मोहम्मद कुर्बान , फिटर हेल्पर को 6 दिसम्बर, 1971 से 
काम से रोकने और इसके अतिरिक्त उसे फिटर हेल्पर के पद 
पर स्थायित्व देने से इन्कार करने की कार्यवाही न्यायोचित है ? 
यदि नहीं , तो कर्मकार किस अनुतोष का और किस तारीख 
से हकदार हैं? " 


SCHEDULE 


[ संख्या एल0/ 2012/ 23 / 72- एल०प्रार० 2] 


" Whether the action of the management of Sendra 

Bansjora Colliery at present under the man 
agement of Messrs Bharat Coking Coal 
Limited , Post Office Jharia , District Dhan 
bad, in stopping Shri Md. Kurban, Fitter 
Helper from work with effect from the 6th 


करनैल सिंह, अवर सचिव । 


SEC. 3di)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4315 


- - . 


Department of Labour and Employment 

New Delhi, the 29th June 1972 
S . O . 2866 .- Whereas by the notification of the Gov 
ernment of India in tre Ministry of Labour and Reha 
bilitation ( Departiment of Lahour and Employment ) No. 
S . O . 51 :3, dated the 211 December , 1971 , the Central 
Government had declared the coal industry to be a 
public utility service for the purposes of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act , 1947 (14. of 1947 ) , for a further 
period of six months from the 8th January , 1972. 

And , whereas the Central Government is of opinion 
that public interest requires the extension or the said 
period by i further period of six months; 

Nov, therefore, in exerclsc of the powers conferred by 
the proviso to sub - clause (vi) of clause (n ) of section 
2 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby declares the said industry 
to be a public utility service for purposes of the said 
Act for a further period of six months from the 8th 
July, 1972. 


नई दिल्ली , 3 जुलाई , 1972 
काव्या० 2867--- भी उठल्युर/ भचिवा० 15 ( 1 ) रेलवे / बाने / 
तेलक्षेत्र/ एटी०एम० / 72. -. -मजदूरी संदाय अधिनियम , 1936 
( 1936 का 4 ) को धारा 2 4 के साथ पठिन धारा 15 को उपधारा 
( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार 
एतदद्वारा प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14) 
की धारा 7 क के अधोन गठित केन्द्रीय सरकार प्रौद्योगिक अधिकरण , 
कलकत्ता के पीठासीन अधिकारी को , पश्चिमी बंगाल राज्य में 
बर्दवान जिले में रेल में , वाय- परिवहन सेवाओं, खान और तेल 
क्षेत्र में नियोजित व्यक्तियों की मजदूरी में कटौती से या मजदूरी के 
संदाय में देरी से उत्पन्न सभी दावों की सुनवाई और विनिश्चय 
के लिए भी प्राधिकारी नियक्त करती है । 


[ सं०एस - 31012/ 9 / 72/ एलमार - III ) 


[ No. F. S. 11025 / 15 / 72- LR. I.] 
श्रम और रोजगार विभाग 
नई दिल्ली , 29 जून , 1972 


का० आ० 2866 - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार ने भारत सरकार के 
श्रम और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधि 
सूचना सं० का ० प्रा० 5 13 तारीख 29 दिसम्बर, 1971 द्वारा 
कोयला उद्योग को प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 
का 14 ) के प्रयोजनों के लिए 8 जनवरी, 1972 से छः मास 
की और कालावधि के लिए लोक उपयोगी सेवा घोषित किया था ; 


S . O . 2868 . - - PWA/ Sect . 15 ( 1 ) Railways / Mines / Oil 
fields / ATS / 72.- - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub- section ( 1 ) of section 16, read with section 24, of the 
Payment of Wages Act , 1936 (4 of 1936 ) , the Central 
Guvernment hereby appoints the Presiding Omcer of 
the Central Government Industrial Tribunal ( No. 2 ) , 
Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act , 1947 (14 of 1947 ), to be also the authority 
to hear and decide for the District of Dhanbad in the 
State of Bihar all claims arising out of deductions from 
the wages , or delay in payment of the wages , of persons 
cmployed in that District in the railways, air transport 
services, mincs and oilfields. 


और यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि लोक हित में उक्त 
कालावधि का छ : मास की और कालावधि के लिए बढ़ाया जाना 
अपेक्षित है ; 


[ No. S. 31012 / 9 / 72 / LR. III .] 


अत : अब , औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 
का 14 ) की धारा 2, के खंड ( द ) के उप खंड ( VI ) के परन्तुक 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों को उक्त अधिनियम के प्रयोजनों के लिए 8 
जुलाई, 1972 से छ: मास की और कालावधि के लिए लोक उप 
योगी सेवा घोषित करती है । 


[ सं० फा० एस-11025/ 15/ 72 -एल० पार०I ] 


सा० का० 2868: — पी उठल्यू ए/ सविा० 15 ( 1 ) 
रेलवे/ खाने) तेलक्षेत्र ए० टी० एस०/ 72 . - मजदूरी संदाय 
अधिनियम , 1936 ( 1936 का 4 ) की धारा 24 
के साथ पठित धारा 15 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा प्रौद्यो 
गिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 
7-क के आधीन गठित केन्द्रीय सरकार प्रौद्योगिक प्रधिकरण 
( सं० 2) , धनबाद के पीठासीन अधिकारी को , बिहार 
राज्य में धनबाद जिले रेल में , वायु - परिवहन-सेवाओं, 
खान और तेल क्षेत्र में नियोजित व्यक्तियों की मजदूरी में कटौती 
से या मजदूरी के संदाय में देरी से उत्पन्न सभी दावों की सुनवाई 
और विनिश्चय के लिए भी प्राधिकारी नियुक्त करती है । 


New Delhi , the 3rd July 1972 


5 . 0 . 2807. PWA/ Sect. 15/ ( 1 ) Railways / Mines / Oil 
fields /ATS / 72 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - section ( 1 ) of section 15 , read with gection 24 , of the 
Payment of Wages Act . 1936 ( 4 of 1936 ) , the Central 
Government hereby appoints the Presiding Onicer of 
the Central Government Inciustrial Tribunal at Calcutta , 
constituted under section 7A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1847), to be also the authority to hear 
and decide for the District of Burdwan , in the State of 
West Bengal, all claims arising out of deductions from 
the wages or delay in payment of the wages of persons 
employed in that District in the railways air transport 
services , mines and oilfields, 

[ No. S. 31012 / 9 / 72 / LR. III. ] 


[सं० एस- 310 12/9/ 72- एल पार• III ] 


4316 


[PART 11 — 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 

- - - - - - -- - . - . - - - -- - - - - 
ORDERS 
New Dclhi, ihc 7th June 1972 

- . - - - . -- - - 
$ . 0 . 2869.-- -Whereas the industrial disputes specified 2. 76 of 1971 , . G . O . No , 24 / 3 / 70 - 
in the Schedule hereto annexed (hereinafter referred 

LRIII datod Sop - 

tember , 5 , 1970 . 
to as the said disputes ) are pending before Shri Aftab 
Ahmad , Presiding OMcer , Industrial Tribunal with 
headquarters at Kanpur ; 


The Staff Manager : 
Punjab National 
Bank , Parliament 
Street, New Delhi, 
through theGeneral 
Secretary , All India 
Bank Employeey Fe 
deration , 26 / 104, 
Birhanu Road , Kan 
pur - I , 


And whereas Shri Aftab Ahmad s services have ceased 
to be available ; 


3. 79 of 1971. 


G . O . No. L 42012 / The Regional Mana 
17 / 71 - LRIII, ger , Food Corpora 
dated Septemct 9 , ton of India , 4 , GO 
1971. 

khlay Marg, Luck 
now and their work 
men . 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 7A and sub -section ( 1) of section 33B of the 
Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ), the Central 
Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal 
with Shri II. S . J. Naqvi as the Presiding Officer with 
headquarters at Kanpur, withdraws the proceedings in 
relation to the said disputes from Shrl Aftab Ahmad 
and transfers the same tı ) Shri S , H , J. Naqvi, Presid 
ing Officer , Industrial Tribunal, Kanpur, for the dis 
posal of the suid disputes, with the direction that the 
said Tribunal shall proceed with the proceedings from 
the stage at which they are transferred to it and dis 
pose of the same according to law . 


4 . 81 of 1971, 


L , 17012 /571 
LRIdated Octo 
ber , 30 , 1971, 


The Zonal Manager , 
Goneral Assurance 
Society Limited , 
Northern Zono, 36 , 
Netaji Subhus Road , 
Dolhi Vs. Tho Pre 
sident,Genorul Asgu 
Tanco Employees 
Unfon , D - 16 / 1 Paper 
Mill Colony, Luck 
now . 


SCHEDULE 


5 . 11 /72 


L , 12025/272 
LRIII dated Ja 
nuary 24 , 1972, 


SI. A di. cise No . Notification No . 
NO. 

und dute 


Names of the parties. 


The Mnager , Char 
tered Bank , Mahat 
ma Gandhi Marg , 
Kanpur and the So 
rotary , U . P . Bank 
Employces Union 
C ! o Hindusta Com 
mercial Bank Limited 
Meston Road , Kan 
pur- i . 


- - . . - . - . 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


1, 751f1971 , 


6 . 15 081972 


G . O . No. L120121 Th :GineralManager , 
35/71- LRII, Ajm ., Allahabau 
date : September Bank , 14 , India Ex 
2 , TY7I. 

change Placo , Cal . 


L . (2012 / 10671 
LRIII datou Fc - 
bruary 24 1972. 


The Regional Mana 
ger , Bank of Baroda 
4 , Park Road , Luck 
now and the General 
Secrotary , U . P . Bank 
Employees Federa 
tion , 26 , 106 , Birhana 
Roud , Kunpur. 


man Sri Sudhir Ku 


tary, U . P . Bank Em 
ployoes Union , CO 
Punjab National 
Bank , Shyamganj, 
Bareilly . 


[No. L -12025 / 14 / 72-LRIII. ] 


SEC. 3( ii ) ] 


___ 4317 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 

--- 
आदेश 


- 


-- 


- -- -- - 


नई दिल्ली , 7, जून , 1972 
का० प्रा० 2869. --यत: इसमे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट औद्योगिक विवाद इसे इसमें इसके पश्चात् उक्न विवाद कहा गया है 
श्री आफताब अहमद , पीठासीन अधिकारी , प्रौद्योगिक प्रधिकरण , कानपुर मुख्यालय के समक्ष लम्बित है ; 


और यतः श्री श्राफताब अहमद की सेवायें अब उपलभ्य नहीं रहीं । 
अतः , अब, प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 7क और धारा 33 ( ख ) की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए, केन्द्रीय मरकार , एतदद्वारा , एक औद्योगिक अधिकरण गठित करती है जिसके पीठासीन अधिकारी श्री एम० एच० 
जे ० नकवी होंगे, जिनका मुख्यालय कानपुर होगा , और श्री आफताब अहमद से उक्त विवाद से सम्बद्ध कार्यत्राहियों को वापस लेती है और 
उसे उक्त विवाद के निपटान के लिए श्री एम० एच० जे० नकवी , पीठासीन अधिकारी, प्रौद्योगिक अधिकरण , कानपूर को इस निदेश के साथ 
अन्तरित करती है कि उक्न अधिकरण , और आग उसी प्रक्रम में कार्यवाही करेगा जिस पर वह उमे अन्तरित की गई है और विधि के अन 
सार उसका निपटान करेगा । 


अनुसूची 


क्रम सं० 


न्या मामला सं० 


अधिसूचना सं० और तारीख 


विवाद के पक्षकार 


____ 1 


2 


1. 


1971 का 75 


सा० प्रा० सं० एल 12012/ 35/ 71 - एल आर० ] महाप्रबंधक प्रशा०, इलाहबाद बैंक, 14, इंडिया 
III ; तारीख सितम्बर 2, 1 

एक्चेंज प्लेम , कलकत्ता तथा इसके कर्मचारी 
श्री सुधीर कुमार , मार्फत सचिव , यू० पी० 
बैंक कर्मचारी युनियन, द्वारा पंजाब नेशनल 
बैंक , श्यामगंज, बरेली । 


2. 1971 का 76 


मा० प्रा० का० सं० 24/ 3/ 70--एलपार III कर्मकारी वृन्द, प्रबंधक, पजाब नेशनल बैंक , 
तारीख सितम्बर 5, 1970 

पालियामेंट स्ट्रीट, नई दिल्ली, द्वारा महा सचिव , 
आल इंडिया बैंक कर्मचारी परिसंध 26/ 104 
बिरहाना गेड, कानपुर 


3. 


1971 का 79 


मा० प्रा० सं० एन 42012/ 17/ 71 - एल पार दि रीजनल मैन जर फूड कारपोरेशन आफ इंडिया , 
III , तारीख सितम्बर 9, 1971 

1, गोखने मार्ग , लखनऊ तथा इसके कर्म 


चारी 


4 . 1971 का 81 


एल० 17012/ 5 / 71 - एल आर आई , तारीख, दि जोनल मैनेजर , जनरल एश्योरेंस सोमायटी 
अक्तूबर 30, 1971 

लिमिटेड , नार्दन जोन , 36, नेताजी सुभाष 
रोड, दिल्ली बनाम दि प्रेसिडेंट जनरल एश्या 
रेम कर्मचारी युनियन डी - 16/ 1, पेपर मिल 
कोलोनी , लखनऊ 


5. 11 / 72 


एल० 12025 / 2/ 72- एल पार III तारीख जनवरी दि मैनेजर , चार्टर्ड बैंक , महात्मा गांधी मार्ग , 
24. 1972 

कानपुर तथा सचिब यू०पी० बैंक कर्मचारी 
यूनियन मार्फत हिन्दुस्तान कमीयल बैंक 
लिमिटेड , मैस्टन रोड , कानपुर - 1. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4318 


[PART II — 


- -- 


- - 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


- - 


6 . 1972 का 15 | 


एल- 120 12/10/ 6/ 71- एल पार III तारीख दि रीजनल मैनेजर , बैंक आफ बड़ोदा , 4 
फरवरी 24, 1972 

पार्क रोड , लखनऊ तथा महासचिव , यू० 
पी० बैंक कर्मचारी फैडरेशन 26 / 106 , 
बिरहाना रोड, कानपुर । 


[सं० एल -12025 /14 /72-एल पार III ] 


New Delhi, the 17th June 1972 


केन्द्रीय सरकार प्रौद्योगिक प्रधिकरण जबलपुर को न्यायनिर्णयन 
के लिय निर्देशित करती है । 


S . 0 . 2870. - - Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the Punjab National Bank and 
their workmen in respect of the matters specified in 
the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


अनुसूची 


And whereas the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the sald dispute for adjudication ; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudi 
cation to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
Jabalpur , constituted under section 7A of the said Act ; 


" क्या श्री जगदीश प्रसाद चौहान को परिवीक्षाधीन चपरासी 
के रूप में सेवा को 27 अगस्त , 1970 से समाप्त करने और उसे 
27 नवम्बर , 1970 से चपरासी एंव रक्षक के रूप में निरन्तर सेवा में 
मानने की पंजाब नेशनल बैंक के प्रबन्ध मण्डल को कारवाही न्यायो 
चित थी ? यदि नहीं तो बह किस अनुतोत्र का हकदार है ? 


[ संख्या एल० 12012/ 24 / 72-एल० आर०III ) 


SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of the management of Punjab 

National Bank in terminating the services of 
Shri Jagdish Prasad Chauhan , as a probationer 
peon with effect from the 27th August, 1970 
and treating him as being on continuous ser 
vice as peon - cilin - guard with effect from the 
27th November, 1970 was justified ? If not, to 
what relief is he entitled ? " 


[ No. L-12012 / 24 / 72- LRIII.] 


New Delhi , the 21st June 1972 
S . O . 2871, — Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the Indian Overseas Bank and 
their workmen in respect of the matter specificd in the 
Schedule hereto annexed ; 
____ And , whereas , the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 7A , and clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of sec 
tion 10 , of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 1.1 of 1947) . 
the Central Government hereby constitutes an Indus 
trial Tribunal of which Thiru G . Gopinath shall be the 
Presiding Omcer, with headquarters at Madras and 
refers the said dispute for adjudication to the sata 
Tribunal . 


नई दिल्ली, 17 जून , 1972 


SCHEDULE 


का० प्रा० 2870. - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे 
उपाबदध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में पंजाब नेशनल 
बैंक से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक प्रौद्यो 
गिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 


" Whether the action of the management of the 

Indian Overseas Bank in dismissing from scr 
vice Shri B. K . R. Pal with effect from the 30th 
November, 1970 is justified ? If not, to what 
relief is he entitled ? " 

[ No. L. 12012 / 25 / 72 / LRIII. ] 


और यतः, केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के 
लिए निर्देशित करना वाछनीय समझती है ; 


नई दिल्ली , 21 जन , 1972 


अतः, अब , औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 
का 14 ) की धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा 

प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा 
उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धार 7- क के अधीन गठिन 


का० आ० 2871 . - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय 
कि इससे उपाबद्ध अनुमूची में विनिदिष्ट विषयों के बारे में इंडियन 


SEC. 3(ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4319 


- - .. - - .. -- - 


ओबरसोज बैंक से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के 
बीच एक औद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है । 


और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन 
के लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय समझती है ; 


और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन 
के लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय समझती है ; 


अतः, अब , प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 
का 14 ) को धारा 7- 2 और धारा 10 को उपधारा ( 1 ) के 
खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार 
एतद्वारा एक प्रौद्योगिक अधिकरण गठित करती है , जिसके 
पोठामीन अधिकारो थोरु जी० गोपीनाथ हांगे , जिनका मुख्यालय 
मद्रास में होगा और उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिकरण को न्याय 
निर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 


अत ., अब , औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 
का 14) की धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा 
उक्त विवाद को उफ्त अधिनियम की धारा 7 -क के आधीन गठित 
केन्द्रीय सरकार प्रौद्योगिक अधिकरण (दिल्ली ) को न्यायनिर्णयन 
के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 


अनुसूची 


अनुसूची 
" क्या बंक प्राफ बड़ौदा के प्रबन्ध - मन्डल की , श्री करतार 
सिह चावला को 27 जलाई, 1971 से बैंक की अम्बाला शहर 
की शाखा में प्रधान रोकड़िया सी के पद से वंचित रखने की 
कार्यवाही न्यायोचित है ? यदि नहीं तो वह किस अनुतोष का 
हकदार है ? 

[सं० एल० 1 20 12/ 18/ 72/एल० आर० III] 


" क्या इंडियन ओवरसीज बैक के प्रबन्ध - मन्डल की , श्री बी० 
के० आर० पाई को 30 नवम्बर , 1970 में मेया में पदच्युत 
करने को कार्रवाई न्यायोचित है । यदि नहीं तो वह किम अनु 
तोष का हकदार है ? 


- . 


. 


- 


. 


. 


. 


- 


- 


New Delhi, the 23rd June 1972 


[मं० एल० 120 12/ 25/ 72/ एल ० आर० III] 


S . 0 . 2873. - Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the Punjab National Bank 
and their workmen In respect of the matter specified 
in the Schedule hereto annexed : 


Neur Delhi , the 22nd June 1072 


S . O . 2872 . — Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an inclustrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the Bank of Baroda and their 
workmen in respect of thie mater specifcd in the 
Schedule hereto annexed ; 


And , whoreas, the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in excrcise of the powers conferred 
by clause ( d ) of sub- section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Dispu. os Act , 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adju lica 
tion to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
Delhi constituted under sartlon 7A of the said Act, 

SCIIEDULE 
“ Whether the action of the management oť Bank of 

Baroda in depriving Shri Kartar Singh Chawla 
of the post of Head Cashier C at Ambala City 
branch of the Bank with effect from the 27th 
July , 1971 is justifled ? It not , to what relief is 
he entitled ? " 


And whereas the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 

Now therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause ( d ) of sub-section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 1•4 of 1947 ), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudi 
cation to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
( No . 2 ) , Dhanbad constituted under section 7A of the 
said Art. 


SCHEDULE 


[ No. L. 12012/ 18 / 72 / LRIII. ] 


नई दिल्ली , 22 जून , 1972 


" Whether the action of the management of the 

Punjab National Bank in not adhering to rota 
tion in the matter of providing temporary 
employments to Shri Arjun Prasad in the 
Gaya Branch Office of the Bank is justifled ? 
If not, to what relief if any, is the workman 
entitled " 


का० प्रा० 2872 - - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है 
है कि इसमे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में 
बैंक आफ बड़ोदा से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के 
बीच एक औद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 


[ No. L. 12012/ 27 / 72 / LRIII . ] 


अनुसूची 


4320 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 

[ PART II 

- - - - - -- - - -- - - - -- - - 
नई दिल्ली 23 जून , 1972 

में सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्म 
का० प्रा० 2873 -- -- अतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय 

कारों के बीच एक औद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 
है कि इस से उपाबद्ध अनगुची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में 

और यतः, केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन 
पंजाब नेशनल बैंक 

के लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय समझती है ; 

से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों 
और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक औद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 

प्रतः, अब , प्रोपोगिक विवाद अधिनियन , 1947 ( 1947 
और यतः, केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन 

का 14 ) की धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त 
के लिए निर्देशित करना यांछनीय समझती है ; 

शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा 

उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7 -क के प्राधीन गठिन 
प्रतः, प्रब , औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 

केन्द्रीय सरकार प्रौद्योगिक अधिकरण कलकत्ता को न्यायनिर्णयन 
का 14 ) की धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा 

के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा 
उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7 - क के प्राधीन गठित 

अनुसूची 
केन्द्रीय सरकार प्रौद्योगिक प्रधिकरण ( सं 2 ) , धनबाद को न्याय 
निर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 

" क्या श्री केशव मग्न भट्टाचार्य, स्टेट बैंक आफ इण्डिया , 
कलकत्ता के रीकड़ कुली, अपने द्वारा किए गये कर्तव्यों की 

प्रधति के आधार पर लिपिक का पारिश्रमिक पाने का हकदार 
" क्या पंजाब नेशनल बैंक के प्रबन्ध - मन्डल की बैंक के गया 
शाखा कार्यालय में श्री अर्जुन प्रसाद को अस्थायी रोजगार व्यवस्था 

यदि हां , तो किस तारीख से ? 
के मामले में बारी- बारी पर न जमें रहने की कार्रवाई न्यायोचित 
है ? यदि नहीं , तो कर्मकार किस अनुतोष का , यदि कोई है , 
हकदार है ? " 

[सं० एल० 12012/ 34/ 72 / आई० आर० III ] 
[ सं० एल० 120 12/ 27/ एल० प्रार० 3] 

New Delhi, the 29th June 1972 
S . O . 2874. - Whereas the Central Government ] s of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the $ .0 . 2875 . — Whereas the Central Government is of 
employers in relation to the State Bank of India and 

opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
their workmen in respect of the matter specified in 
the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

employers in relation to the State Bank of India and 

their workmen in respect of the matter specified in the 
And whereas the Central Government considers it 

Schedule hereto annexed ; 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 

Now therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred And whereas the Central Government considers it 
by clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the 

desirable to refer the said dispute for a ljudication ; 
Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Cen . 
tral Government hereby refers the said dispute for 
adjudication to the Central Government Industrial Now therefore , in cxercise of the powers conferred by 
Tribunal, Calcutta constituted under section 7A of the 

clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Indus 
said Act. 

trial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1147 ), the Central Gov 
SCHEDULE 

ernment hereby refers the said dispute for adjudica 
“ Whether by virtue of the nature of duties perfor tion to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
med by him , Shri Keshab Saran Bhattacharjee , Cush No. 2, Dhanbad constituted under Section 7A of the 
Coolie of the State Bank of India , Calcutta is entitled 

which 

said Act. 
to the remuneration of a Clerk ? If so , from 
date ? " 

SCHEDUI, E 
[ No. L. 12012/ 34 / 72 /IRIII ] 

" Whether the action of the management of the 

State Bank of India, Hazaribagh in terminat 
नई दिल्ली , 29 जून , 1972 

ing the services of Shri Rajendra Prasad , 

Cashier with effect from the 6th September , 
का० प्रा० 2874 . --- यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय 

1989 Is justified ? If not, to what relief is he 

entitled ? " 
है कि इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में 
स्टेट वेंक प्राफ इंडिया --- -- 

[ No. L .12012/ 37/ 72 |TRIII. ] 


- 


- 


man . 


SEC . 3(ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29 , 1894 

4321 
- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - .. . - .. . --- - -- - - - - - - - - -- -- -- - - . . .......... . -:- . - - - - - - - - - - . 
____ का० प्रा० 2875. -- यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार की गय 
है कि इस में उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में 
स्टेट बैंक आफ इण्डिया में सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके 

Kanpur & their wor 
कर्मकारों के बीच एक औद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 

2 . S . O . No . 4425dated the 22nd De 

ID ). 

cember , I967 . 
और यतः, केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन 
के लिए निदेशित करना वांछनीय समझती है ; 

[ N ). F. 701466 -1. R.IV LR-I ] 
अतः, अब , औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 
का 14 ) की धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा 
उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7 - क के अधीन गठित 

नई दिल्ली , 1 जलाई , 1972 
केन्द्रीय सरकार प्रोद्योगिक अधिकरण सं० 2 , धनबाद को 
न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 

का०पा - 2876.- यत : इमसे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट प्रौद्यो 

गिक विवाद (जिसे इसमें इस के पश्चात् उक्त विवाद कहा गया है ) 
अनुसूची 

श्री मिठन लाल , पीठासीन अधिकारी, औद्योगिक अधिकरण 

मख्यालय इलाहाबाद , के समक्ष लम्बित हैं ; 
" क्या स्टेट बैंक आफ इण्डिया , हजारीबाग के प्रबन्ध मन्डल 
को श्री राजेन्द्र प्रसाद, रोकड़िया की सेवाओं को 6 सितम्बर , 

और यत : श्री मिठन लाल को मेवाएं अब उपलब्ध नहीं रहीं ; 
1969 से समाप्त करने को कार्यबाहो न्यायोचित है ? यदि नहीं , 
तो वह किस अनुतीष का हकदार है ? 

अत : अब प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 

का 14) की धारा 7 - क और धारा 33 ( ख ) की उपधारा ( 1 
[ मं० एल० 120 12/ 37/ 72/ प्राई० आर० 3] द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद् 

हारा, एक औद्योगिक प्रधिकरण गठित करती है जिसके पीठासीन 

अधिकारी श्री एल० एल० नकवों होंगे, जिनका मुख्यालय कानपुर 
New Delhi , the 1st July 1972 

होगा , और श्री भिठन लाल से उक्त विवाद से सम्बद्ध कार्यवाहियों 
S. 0 . 2876. - whereas the industrial dispute specified in 

कोवापस लेतो है ओर उसे उक्त विवाद के निपटान के लिए प्रोयो 
the schedule hereto annexed (hereinafter referred to as 

गिक अधिकरण , कानपुर को इस निदेश के माय अन्तरित करलो 
the said disputes ) are pending before Shri Mithan Lal, 
Presiding Officer , Industrial Tribunal with headquarters है कि उक्त अधिकरण और भाग उसी प्रक्रम से कायवाही करेगा 

at Allahabad; and whereas Shri Mithan Lal s ser 
vices have ceased to be available ; 

जिस पर वह उसे अन्तरित की गई है और विधि के अनुसार उसका 
Now , therefore , in cxcrcise of the powers conferrcd 

निपटान करेगा । 
by section 7A and sub - section ( 1) of section 33B of the 
Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central 

अनुसूची 
Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal 
with Shri S . H . J. Naqvi as the Presiding Officer with 
headquarters at Kanpur, withdraws the proceedings in क्रम अधिसूचना स० और तारीख विवाद के पक्षकार 
relation to the said disputes from Shri Mithan Lal and 
transfers the same to Shri S . H . J. Naqvi , Presiding 

सं० 
Oficer , Industrial Tribunal, Kanpur, for the disposal of 
the said disputes with the direction that the said Tri 
bunal shall procecd with the proceedings from the stage 
at which they are transferred to it and dispose of the 
same according to law . 

1 का० ० सं० 2213 क्षेत्रीय प्रबंधक , प्रोरियन्टल 

तारीख 22 जून , 1947 फायर एंड जनरल इंशो 
SCHILDULE 

रेंश कम्पनी लिमिटेड, 

भारगवा एस्टेट , माल रोड 
Notification No . & date Namcg of tho parties 

कानपुर और उनके कम . 
कार । 


efore the clerrechied in 


- - 


- - - - - -- - - - -- - - 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


No. 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


यथोक्त 


2 का० प्रा० सं० 4425 

तारीख 22दिसम्बर, 1967 


I. S . O . NO. 2213 datesthe 22nd Junc , The Regional Mana 
1967 . 

ger , The Oricntal 
Fire and General 
Ingurance Company 
Limited , Bhargwa 
Estate, Thc Mall , 


___ .. - - - - 


.. 


-- - . 


- . - . 


[ सं० फा० 70/ 14/ 6d -एल० आर० 4/एल० पार ।] 


4322 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 

(PART II -- 
.. . .... .- - - .- - - -- - - - - - - --- - - - .- - . - - 

- - - - - - - - - - , - - - - - -- - - 
New Delhi, the 7th October 1972 

period aforementioned , the rcfcrence to arbitration 

shall stand automatically cancelled and we shall be 
S . O . 2877. -- Whereas an Industrial dispute exists bel free to negotiate for fresh arbitration . 
ween the employer in relation to the management of 
Hindustan Zinc Limited at Zawar Mines, Udaipur and 

Signature of the partics : 
their workmer represented by the Zawar Mines Maz 

Representing employer : 
door Sangh ; 

Sd / - Illegible 
And whereas the said employers and the workmen 

26- 9 - 72 
have by a written agreement in pursuance of the pro 

Representing workmen . 
visions of sub- section ( 1 ) of section 10A of the Indus 

Sd/ - Illegible 
trial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947) agreed to refer 
the said dispute to arbitration of the person mention 

26 - 9 - 72 
ed therein and a copy of the said arbitration agree 

Witnesses : 
ment has been forwarded to the Central Government ; 

Now thercfore , in pursuance of the Provisions of 1 . Sd / - Illegible 
sub- section ( 3 ) of section 10A of the Industrial Dis 
putes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government 2. Sd / - Illegible 
hereby publishes the said arbitration agreement which 
was received by it on the 29th September , 1972 . 

[ No L -2013 / 4 / 72 - LR.IV . ] 
( AGREEMENT ) 

S. S . SAHASRANAMAN, Under Secy . 
( Under S. 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ) 


नई दिल्ली , 7 अक्तबर, 1972 


BETWEEN 


Name of parties : 
Representing employer - Shri V . D . Bakshi, Chieľ 

Personnel Omccr . 


का०या० 2877.-- यतः जावर माईन्म , उदयपुर में हिन्दुस्तान 
जिक लिमिटड , के प्रबधतंत्र मे सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मब 
कारों के बीच, जिनका प्रतिनिधित्व जावर माईन्स मजदूर संघ करना 
है , एक औद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है । 


Representing workmen - Shri Shankar Das , Secre 

tary , Zawar Mincs Mazdoor Sangh . 
It is hereby agrced between the parties to refer the 
following industrial dispute to the arbitration of Shri 
R . J . T . D . Mello, Chief Labour Commissioner , Gov 
ernment of India , New Delhi. 


और यतः उक्त नियोजकों और कर्मकारों ने प्रोद्योगिक विवाद 
अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 11) की धाग 10- क की उप 
धारा ( 1 ) के उपबन्धों के अनुसरण में एक लिखित करार द्वारा उपन 
विवाद को उममें वर्णित व्यक्ति के मान्यम के लिए निर्देशितकर 
का करार कर लिया है और उक्त माध्यम करार की एक प्रति केन्द्रीय 
मरकार को भेजी गई है । 


(i ) Specific matter in dis . 

pute 


What should be daily 
working hours of the 
general shift workers 
of Zawar Mines . 


( 11 ) Details of the parties Hindustan Zinc Limited, 

to the dispute includ Zawar Mines and the 
ing the name and ad workmen of Zawar 
dress of the establish Mines, P. O . Zawar 
ment or undertaking Mines Udaipur (Rajas 
Involved . 

than ) . 


अतः, अब , प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 
का 14) की धारा 10 - क की उपधारा ( 3 ) के उपबन्धों के अन 
मरण में , केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त माध्यस्थम् करार को , जो उसे 29 
सितम्बर , 1972 को मिला था , एतद्वार। प्रकाशित करती है । 


Zawar Mines 

Sangh 


Mazdoor 


( iii ) Name of the union, 

if any , representing 
the workmen in ques 
tion 


(करार ) 


2500. 


( iv ) Total number of 

workmen employed in 
the undertaking affect 
ed 


( प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 की धारा 10 - क के अधीन ) 

बीच 
पक्षकारों के नाम : 
नियोजकों का प्रतिनिधित्व करने वाले : 


170 


( v ) Estimated number of 

workmen affected or 
likely to be affected 
by the dispute 


श्री वी० डी० बेकशी, 

मुख्य कार्मिक अधिकरी, 
कर्मकारों का प्रतिनिधित्व करने वाले 


We further agree that the decision of the Arbitra 
tor shall be binding on us . 


श्री शंकर दाम , सचिव , 
जावर माईन्म मजदूर संघ , 


The Arbitrator shall make his award within a 
period of threc months or within such further time 
as is extended by mutual agreement between us in 
writing . In case the award is not made within the 


पक्षकारों के बीच निम्नलिखित प्रौद्योगिक विवाद को श्री 
प्रार० जे० टी० डीमेलो, मुख्य श्रमायुक्त , भारत सरकार, नई दिल्ली 


SEC. 3( 1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


43 : 


2 


Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 
Employment) No. S. O . 2775 , dated the 5th July, 1971 , 
the Central Government having regard to the location 
of the State Transport Workshops at Meenakshipuram 
and Ranithottam of the Kanya Kumari Branch of the 
Tamil Nadu State Transport Department in an area 
in which the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the 
said Act are in force , hereby exempts the said work 
shops from the payment of the employer s special con 
tribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act 
for a further period of one year with effect from the 
29th July , 1972 upto and inclusive of the 28th July , 
1973 . 


[ No. F .S .38017 ( 40 ) / 72 - HI. ] 
( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 
नई दिल्ली , 4 जून, 1972 


के माध्यस्थम् के लिए निर्देशित करने का एतद्द्वारा करार दिया 
गया है : - - 
( i ) विनिर्दिष्ट विवाद प्राविषयः । ज पर पाईना के सामन्य 

पारो के श्रमिकों के 
प्रतिदिन के कार्य घंटे 

का होने चाहिएं ? 
( ii ) विवाद के पक्षकारों का हिन्दुस्तान जिंक लिमिटेड , 

विवरग जिसमें अंशवलित जावर माईनस और 
स्थापन का उपक्रम का जावर माईन्स के श्रमिक , 
नाम और पता भी डाकघर जावर माईन्स , 
सम्मिलित है । 

उदयपुर ( राजस्थान ) 
( iii ) यदि कोई संघ प्रश्नगत जावर माईन्स मजदूर संघः 

कर्मकारों का प्रतिनि 
धित्व करता हो तो उसका 

नाम । 
( Vi ) प्रभावित उपक्रम में नि - 2500 

योजित कर्मकारों की 
कुल संख्या । 
विवाद द्वारा प्रभावित 170 
मा सम्भाव्यतः प्रभावित 
होने वाले कर्मकारों की 

प्राकलित संख्या । 
हम यह करार भी करते हैं कि मध्यस्थ का विनिश्चय हम पर 
आबाद्ध कर होगा । 

मध्यस्य अपना पंचाट तीन मास को कालावधि या इतने और 
समय के भीतर जो हमारे बीच पारस्परिक लिखित करार द्वारा 
बढ़ाया जाय , देगा । यदि पूर्व वर्णित कालावधि के भीतर पंचाट 
नही दिया जाना तो माध्यस्थन के लिए निदेश स्वत : रद्द हो जाएगा 
ओर हम पर माध्यस्थम् के लिए बातचीत करने को स्वतंत्र होंगे । 

__ पक्षकारोंके हस्ताक्षरः 
नियोजकों का प्रतिनिधित्व करने वाले 

( ह0/ - ) अपाठ्य 26 / 9/ 72 
कर्मकारों का प्रतिनिधित्व करने वाले 

( ह0/ - ) अपाठय 26/ 9/ 72 
साक्षी 

(ह0/ - ) अपाठ्य 
( ह0/ - ) अपाठ्य 
(सं० एल० - 2901314172 - एल० आर० IV ) 

( एम० एस० सहस्रानमन ) 

अवर सचिव , भारत सरकार । 
( Department of Labour and Employment) 

___ New Delhi , the " 4th June 1972 
S . O . 2878. - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 73F of the Employees State Insurance Act , 
1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , and in continuation of the notifica 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of 


का० प्रा० 2878 कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 
( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 73च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रम और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम 
और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं०का० प्रा० 2775, तारीख 
5 जुलाई, 1971 के क्रम में केन्द्रीय सरकार , तमिलनाडु राज्य 
परिवहन विभाग की कन्याकुमारी शाखा के मीनाक्षीपुरम् और 
रानीथोट्टम स्थित राज्य परिवहन कर्मशाखाओं की ऐसे क्षेत्र में , 
जिसमें उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 4 ओर 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवृत्त हैं , 
अवस्थिति को ध्यान में रखते हुए उक्त कर्मशालामौ को उक्त 
अधिनियम के अध्याय 5-क के अधीन उद्ग्रहणीय नियोजक 
के विशष अभिदाय के संदाय से 29 जुलाई, 1972 से 28 जुलाई, 
1973 तक, जिसमें वह दिन भी सम्मिलित है, एक और वर्ष की 
अवधि के लिए एतदद्वारा छूट देती है । 


[ सं० फा० एस० 38017 ( 40 )/ 72-एच आई ] 


S . O . 2879 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 87F of the Employees State Insurance Act, 
1948 (34 of 1948 ) , and in continuation of the notifica 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 
Employment ) No. S . O . 481 , dated the 11th January , 
1972 , the Central Government hereby exempts the 
Hindustan Shipyard Limited , Visakhapatnam from all 
the provisions of the said Act for a further period of 
one year with effect from the date of expiry of the 
period specified in the said notification . 

[ No. S.38017 (43 ) / 72 - HI .1 . 


4324 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


PART II - - 


- 


का०मा० 2879. -- कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 
( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 87 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए तथा भारत सरकार, श्रम और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और 
रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना संख्या का० प्रा० 481, तारीख 
11 जनवरी, 1972 के क्रम में , केन्द्रीय सरकार हिन्दुस्तान शिप 
यार्ड लिमिटेड, विशाखापटनम् को उक्त अधिनियम के सभी उपबंधों 
से , उक्त अधिसूचना में विनिर्दिष्ट कालावधि के अवसान की तारीख 
से , एक वर्ष की और कालावधि के लिए एतदवारा छूट देती है । 

[ सं०फा०एस 38017 ( 43 )/ 72- एच पाई ] 


contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said 
Act for a furthr period of one year with effect from 
the 4th July , 1972 upto and inclusive of the 3rd July , 
1973. 

[ No, F .S.38017 (47 ) / 72 - HI. ] 
का०या० 288 1. - -कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 
( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 73च दवारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रम और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम 
और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं० का० प्रा० 3580 तारीख 
18 अगस्त, 1971 के क्रम में केन्द्रीय सरकार बंगलौर नगर निगम 
को सेन्ट्रल इंजीनियरिंग वर्कशाप , बंगलौर के ऐसे क्षेत्र में , जिसमें 
उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 4 और 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवृत्त है, की अव 
स्थिति को ध्यान में रखते हुए उक्त वर्कशाप को उक्त अधिनियम के 
अध्याय 5- क के अधीन उदग्रहणीय नियोजक के विशेष अभिदाय के 
संवाय से 4 जुलाई, 1972 से 3 जुलाई, 1973 तक , जिसमें यह 
दिन भी सम्मिलित है, एक और वर्ष की अवधि के लिए एतदद्वारा छुट 
देती है । 

[ सं० फा एस० 38017 ( 47)/ 72-एच पाई ] 


8 . 0 . 2880, - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 73Fot the Employees State Insurance Act , 
1948 ( 34 of 1948) , and in continuation of the notifica 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 
Employment ) No . S . O . 3668 dated the 7th August , 1971 
the Central Government having regard to the location 
of the factory , namely , Central Jail Industrial Section , 
Central Jall, Madras, in an area in which the provi 
sions of Chapters IV and V of the said Act are in 
force , hereby exempts the said factory from the pay 
ment of the employer s special contribution leviable 
under Chapter VA of the said Act for a further period 
ot one year with effect from the 12th August, 1972 upto 
and inclusive of the 11th August , 1973. 

[ No. F .601 ( 32 ) / 70 - HI.] 


New Delhi, the 22nd June 1972 


का०मा० 2880 . कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 
( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 73च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रम और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम 
पोररोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं० का० प्रा० 3668तारीख 
7 अगस्त , 1971 के क्रम में केन्द्रीय सरकार सेन्ट्रल जेल 
इन्डस्ट्रियल सेक्शन , सेन्ट्रल जेल , मद्रास , नामक कारखाने की ऐसे 
क्षेत्र में , जिसमें उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 4 और 5 के उपबन्ध 
प्रवत्स है, अवस्थिति को ध्यान में रखते हुए उक्त कारखाने को उक्त 
अधिनियम के अध्याय 5- क के अधीन उद्रहग्रणीय नियोजक के विषेश 
अभिदाय के संवाय से 12 अगस्त , 1972 से 11 अगस्त , 1973 
तफ ,जिसमें वह दिन भी सम्मिलित है, एक और वर्ष की अवधि के 
लिए एतदद्वारा छूट देती है । 


S . O . 2882. - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 737 of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 
( 34 of 1948 ), and in continuation of the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and 
Rebabilitation ( Department of Labour and Employment) 
No. S . O . 2232 , dated the 27th May, 1971 , the Central 
Government, having regard to the location of the factory 
namely , Chamarajasgara Water Works Tippegondana 
halli in Bangalore District in the State of Mysore in 
which the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the said 
Act are not in force , hereby exempts the said factory 
from the payment of employer s special contribution 
leylable under Chapter VA of the said Act of a further 
period of one year with effect from the 5th June, 1972 
upto and inclusive of the 4th June, 1973 or until the 
enforcement of provisions of Chapter V of the said Act 
in those areas, whichever is earlier , 


[ No. F . S. 38017/ 57 / 72- HI.] 


नई दिल्ली , 22 जुलाई, 1972 


[ संख्या फा० 601 ( 32) / 70-एच आई ] 


8 . 0 . 2881. - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 73F of the Employees State Insurance Act, 
1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , and in continuation of the notifica 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 
Employment) No . $ . O . 3580 dated the 18th August, 1971 
the Central Government having regard to the location 
of the Central Engineering Workshop , Bangalore , be 
longing to the Bangalore Municipal Corporation in an 
area in which the provisions of Chapters IV and y of 
the said Act are in force , hereby exempts the said 
workshop from the payment of the employer s special 


का ० ० 2882. - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 
1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 73ध दारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रम और पुनर्वास 
मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं० 
का० प्रा० 2232 तारीख 27 मई, 1971 के क्रम 
में केन्द्रीय सरकार चाम - राजसागर वाटर वर्क्स , टिप्पेगोंड 
नाहली नामक कारखाने की मैसूर राज्य में बंगलोर जिले 
में , जिनमें उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 4 और 5 के उपबन्ध 
प्रवृत्त नहीं हैं , अवस्थिति को ध्यान में रखते हुए उक्त कारखाने को 
उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5 - क के अधीन उग्रहणीय नियोजक के 
विशेष अभिदाय के संदाय से 5 जून , 1972 से 4 जून , 1973 
तक , जिसमें वह दिन भी सम्मिलित है, एक और वर्ष की अवधि 
के लिए या तब तक के लिए जब तक कि उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 


SEC. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4325 


। 


5 के उपबन्ध उन क्षेत्रों में प्रवृत्त नहीं हो जाते, जो भी पहले हों 
उसके लिए, एतद द्वारा छूट देती है । 

[ गं० फा० एस ० 38017( 57 ) / 72- एच पाई ] 


अध्याय 5 - 2 के अधीन उग्रहणीय नियोजक के विशेष प्रभिदाय 
के संदाय से 28 अगस्त, 1972 से 27 अगस्त , 1973 तक , जिसमें 
वह दिन भी सम्मिलित है, एक और वर्ष की अवधि के लिए एतदद्वारा 
छूट देती है । 

[ फाइल सं ० एस ० 38017( 54 )/ 72 - एच . पाई ] 


S . O . 2883. --In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 87 of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 
( 34 of 1948 ) and in continuation of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and 
Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) 
No. S . O . 2974 dated the 17th July , 1971 , the Central 
Government hereby exempts the National Chemical 
Laboratory , Poona , under the control of the Council of 
Scientific and Industrial Research from all the provi 
sions of the said Act for a further period of one year 
with effect from the date of expiry of the period speci 
fied in the said notifcation . 


[ No. F . S- 38017 ( 61) /72- HI. ] 
का ० प्रा० 2883. - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 
1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 87 द्वारा प्रदत शक्तियों का 
प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रम और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय 
श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं० का० प्रा० 
2974, तारीख 17 जुलाई, 1971 के क्रम में केन्द्रीय सरकार, 
वैज्ञानिक और प्रौद्योगिक अनुसंधान परिषद् के नियंत्राधीन राष्ट्रीय 
रसायन प्रयोगशाला, पूना को उक्त अधिनियम के सभी उपबन्धों 
से उक्त अधिसूचना में विनिर्दिष्ट कालावधि के अवसान की तारीख 
से एक वर्ष की और अवधि के लिए , एतद्वारा छूट देती है । 


New Delhi, the 24th June 1972 
S . 0 . 2885. . .. In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 87 of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 
( 34 of 1948) and in continuation of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and 
Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) 
No . S . O . 2228 , dated the 27th May , 1971, the Central 
Government hereby exempts Messrs Indian Refineries 
Limited , Gauhati from all the provisions of the said Act 
for a further period of one year with effect from the 
24th January , 1972 upto and inclusive of the 23rd 
January , 1973 . 

[ No. F . S - 38017( 2) / 71 - HI. ] 
नई दिल्ली , 24 जून, 1972 
का० प्रा० 2885 . - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम 
1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 87द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों , 
का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रम , रोजमार और 
पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना 
सं० का० प्रा० 2228 तारीख 27 मई, 1971 के क्रम में केन्द्रीय 
सरकार एसद्वारा मैसर्स इंडियन रिफाइनरीज लिमिटेड, गोहाटी 
को उक्त अधिनियम के सभी उपब धों से 24 जनवरी , 
1973 तक , यह दिन भी सम्मिलित करके , एक वर्ष की अवधि 
के लिए छूट देती है । 

[ सं० फा० एस - 38017 ( 2 )/ 71 -एच आई ] 


[मं० फा ० एस ० 38017 ( 61 )/ 72- एच प्राई ] 


S . O . 2884 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 73F of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 
( 34 of 1948 ) , and in continuation of the notifcation of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and 
Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) 
No. S . O . 83 , dated the 7th December , 1971, the Central 
Government having regard to the location of the 
Tirumala Tirupathi Dev - asthanam Transport Garage 
Workshop Tirupathi, in an area in which the provi 
sions of Chapters IV and V of the said Act are in force , 
hereby exempts the said workshop from the payment of 
the employer s special contibution leviable under Chap 
ter VA of the sald Act for a further period of one year 
with effect from the 28th August, 1972 upto and inclu 
sive of the 27th August, 1973 . 


[ No . F . S. 38017 / 54 / 72- HI.] 


New Delhi , the 4th. June 1972 
S. O . 2886. --- In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 73F of the Employees State Insurance Act , 
1948 (34 of 1948 ) , and in continuation of the notifica 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 
Employment) No. S . O . 3679 dated the 7th August, 1971 
the Central Government having regard to the location 
of the Kerala University Press , Trivandrum , in an area 
in which the provisions of Chapter IV and V of the 
said Act are in force , hereby exempts the said press 
from the payment of the employer s special contribu 
tion leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act for a 
further period of one year with effect from the 9th 
July , 1972 upto and inclusive of the 8th July , 1973 . 

[ No. F . S. 38017 ( 48 ) / 72 - HI. ] 

नई दिल्ली , 4 जूलाई, 1972 
का० प्रा० 2886. -कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 
( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 73च दद्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रम , और पुनर्वास मन्त्रालय ( श्रम 
और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिचना स० का० प्रा० 3679 , तारीख 
7 अगस्त , 1971 के क्रम में केन्द्रीय सरकार केरल विश्वविद्यालय 
मुद्रणालय , त्रिवेन्द्रम, के ऐसे क्षेत्र में , जिसमें उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 
4 और 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवत्त हैं , की अवस्थिति को ध्यान में रखते हुए 


का ० प्रा० 2884. - - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 
1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 73च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए भारत सरकार के श्रम और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय 
( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं०का०मा० 83 
तारीख 7 दिसम्बर, 1971 के क्रम में केन्द्रीय सरकार तिरूमाला , 
तिरुपति के देवस्थानम ट्रांसपोर्ट गैरेज वर्कशाप तिरुपति के ऐसे क्षेत्र में , 
जिसमें उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 4 और 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवृत्त हैं , 
अवस्थिति को ध्यान में रखते हुए उक्त वर्कशाप को उक्त अधिनियम के 


4326 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II . 


नई दिल्ली, 12 जुलाई , 1972 


उक्त मुद्रणालय को उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5-क के अधीन 
उद्ग्रहणीय नियोजक के विशेष अभिदाय के संदाय से 9 जलाई, 1972 
से 8 जुलाई. 1973 तक , जिसमें यह दिन भी सम्मिलित है, एक और 
वर्ष की अवधि के लिए एतदद्वारा छूट देती है । 


[ सं० फा० एस० 38017 ( 48 ) / 72-एच आई ] 


का० प्रा० 2888 . - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिक 
नियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 1 की उपधारा 
( 3 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार 
एतद्द्वारा 13 अगस्त , 1972 को उस तारीख के रूप में नियत 
करती है जिसको उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 4 ( धारा 44 और 
45 के सिवाय जो पहले ही प्रवृत्त की जा चुकी हैं ) और अध्याय 
5 और 6 [ धारा 76 की उपधारा ( 1 ) और धाग 77 , 78 , 
79 और 82 के सिवाय जो पहले ही प्रवृत्त की जा चुकी है के 
उपबन्ध प्रान्ध्र प्रदेश राज्य के निम्नलिखित क्षेत्रों में प्रवृत्त होंगे , 
अर्थात् : 


New Delhi, the 10th July 1972 
S . O . 2887. - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub- section ( 3 ) of section 5D of the Employees Provi 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 
of 1952 ) , and in supersession of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and 
Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour and Emplov 
ment) No. S .O . 377, dated the 17th December , 1971 , the 
Central Government hereby appoints Shri B . N . Raval 
as Regional Provident Fund Commissioner for the 
whole of the State of Maharashtra and the Union 
territory of Goa , Daman and Diu to assist the Central 
Provident Fund Commissioner in the discharge of his 
duties, vice Shri K . S . Naik , 


"प्रोदातुर नगरपालिका और कुड्डापाह जिले में प्रोद् 

दातुर तालुक में प्रोद्दातुर और कोथापल्ली के राजस्व 
ग्रामों की सीमा के भीतर का क्षेत्र । " 

[ संख्या फा० 38013( 13 )/ 72-एच ० आई० ] 


[ No . 17 / 80 / 65 / PF -I ( i) . 


नई दिल्ली, 10 जुलाई, 1972 
का० प्रा० 2887 . कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन 
निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) की धारा 5घ की उप 
धारा ( 2 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए और 
भारत सरकार के श्रम और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार 
विभाग ) की अधिसुचना सं० का० प्रा० 371 तारीख 17 दिसम्बर , 
1971 को अधिक्रांत करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार भविष्य निधि आयुक्त 
को उसके कर्तव्यों का निर्वहन करने में सहायता देने के लिए श्री 
के० एस० नायक के स्थान पर श्री बी० एन० रावल को समस्त 
महाराष्ट्र राज्य और गोवा, दमन और दीव संघ राज्य क्षेत्रों के लिए 
एतद्वारा प्र. देशिक भविष्य निधि आयुक्त नियुक्त करती है । 


New Delhi, the 17th July 1972 
S . O . 2889 , - Whereas it appears to the Central Govern 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Quickker s Paper Converting Machinery Manu 
facturing Company, 39 , Makardah Road , Salkia , 
Howrah, including ( i ) Quickker s Paper Converting, 
Machinery Manufacturing Company, 17A, Place 
Court, 1 Kyd Street, Calcutta and (ii ) Quickker s 
Paper Converting Machinery Manufacturing Company , 
20 Chanditala Main Road , Behala , Calcutta -53 have 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees Provi 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 
1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said establish 
ment; 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers 
conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said 
Act, the Central Government hereby applies the pro 
visions of the said Act to the said establishment, 


[ सं० 17 ( 80)/ 65-पी० एफ० 1 (i) ] 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of December, 1970 . 


[ No. S. 35017( 25 ) /72 - PF . II ] 


नई दिल्ली, 17 जुलाई, 1972 


New Delhi, the 12th July 19722 
S . O . 2888. - - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - section ( 3 ) of section 1 of the Employees State 
Insurance Act , 1948 ( 34 of 1948) , the Central Govern 

ment hereby appoints the 13th day of August , 1972 as 
the date on which the provisions of Chapter IV ( except 
. sections 44 and 45 which have already been brought 
Into force ) and Chapters V and VI (except sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 76 and sections 77, 78 , 79 and 81 which 
have already been brought into torce ) of the said Act 
shall come into force in the following areas in the 
State of Andhra Pradesh namely : 
" The area within the limits of Proddatur muni 

cipality and within the limits of the villages of 
Proddatur and Kothapally in Proddatur Taluk , 
Cuddapah district. " 


का० प्रा० 2889 . -- प्रतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैयस क्विकर्स पेपर कनवटिंग मशीनरी मैन्यूफेक्चरिंग 
कम्पनी, 39, मकराह रोड , मल्किया , हावड़ा, जिसमें (i ) 
क्विकर्म पेपर कनवटिंग मशीनरी मैन्यूफेक्चरिंग कम्पनी , 17 ए , 
पैलेस कोर्ट , 1 किडस्ट्रीट , कलकत्ता और ( ii ) क्विकर्स पेपर 
कनवटिंग मशीनरी मैन्यूफेक्चरिंग कम्पनी, 20 , चण्डीतल्ला 
मेन रोड , बेहाला , कलकत्ता - 53 सम्मिलित हैं , नामक स्थापन से 
सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर 


[ No. F . S. 38013 / 13 / 72 - HI .] 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


SEC. 3 ( ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 

4327 
-- - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - 
महमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कु म्ब पेंशन 

का० प्रा० 28 11. - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त 

होता है कि मैसर्स गनेशका कनोई टी कम्पनी ( प्रा० )लि०, पी - 8 
स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए : 

मिशन रो एक्सटेंगन , कनकता - 1 नामक स्थान से सम्बद्ध 
अतः , अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधाग ( 4 ) नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या छम बात पर सहमत हो 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए, केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 

गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लाग करती 

1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू 

किए जाने चाहिए । 
यह अधिसूचना 1970 के दि पन्धर के इकनोमवें दिन को 

अत:, पत्र , उस अधिनियम को धारा 1 को उपधारा ( 4 ) 
प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 

द्वारा प्रदन शक्तियों का प्रयोग करने हए , केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
[सं० 35017( 25 )/72-पो एफ 2] अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती 


1 


यह आ सूचना 1970 के अप्रैल के प्रथम दिन को प्रवत हुई 
समशी जाएगी । 


S . O . 2890 . - In exercisc of the powers conferred by the 
first proviso to section 6 of the Employees Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 (19 of 
1952 ) , the Central Government , after making neces 
sary enquiry into the matter , hereby specifies with 
effect from the 1st April, 1970, the establishment 
known as Messrs Ganeshka Kanoi Tea Company ( Pri 
vate ) Limited, P - 8, Mission Row Extension, Calcutta 
1, for the purposes of the said proviso , 


[ सं० 8/ 201/ 70-पी०एफ० 2( ii ) ] 


[ No. 8 / 201 / 70 / PF- II (ii ) ] 


S . O . 2892. - Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of 
the employees in relation to the cstablishment known 
as Messrs Raja Charity Trust, 150 / A , Mount Road , 
Madras - 2 including its Depots at ( 1 ) No . 19, 20 , 21 , 
Mookar Nallamuthu Street , G . T . Madras, ( 2 ) 23/ 1306 , 
Mahatma Gandhi Road Ernakulam , Cochin - 16 , and 
( 3 ) 2 / 108 , I Block I. Main Road , Rajaji Nagar. Bang 
alore - 10 , have agreed that the provisior s of the Em 
ployecs Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 
1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the 
said establishment ; 


का० प्रा० 2890 - केन्द्रीय सरकार कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम, 1952 ( 1952 का 
19 ) की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तु क द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हार , सम्बद्ध विषय में अावश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात् 1 अप्रैल, 
1970 से मैसर्स गनेशका कनोई टी कं० ( प्रा . ) लि० . पी - 8. 
मिशन रो एक्सटेंशन , कलकत्ता - 1 नामक स्थापन को नदवारा 
उक्त परन्तु क के प्रयोजनों के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती हैं । 


. 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers con 
ferred hy sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , 
the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establish :nent . 


[ सं० 8( 20 ! )/ 70- पी . एफ० 2( ii )] 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April, 1970 . 


[ No . S. 8 ( 208) / 70 - PF . II ( 1) ] 


S . O . 2891, — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern 
ment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Geneshka Kanoi Tea Company Private Limited , 
P - 8, Mission Row Extension, Calcutta - 1 have agreed 
that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds 
and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , 
should be made applicable to the said establishment; 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers 
confcrred by sub - section 14 ) of sertion 1 of the said 
Act , the Centrel Government hereby applies the pro 
visions of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April. 1970, 


का० प्रा० 2892 . - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैमर्स राजा चैरिटी ट्रस्ट , 150/ T , माउन्ट रोड , 
मद्राम- 2, जिसमें ( 1 ) सं० 19, 20, 21 मकर नल्लामन्यू स्ट्रीट , 
जी० टी० मद्राम , ( 2 ) 23 /1306, महात्मा गांधी रोड, 
एर्णाकुलम , कोचीन-16 और ( 3 ) 2/ 108, आई इलाक , मेन 
रोड, राजाजी नगर, बंगलौर - 10 में स्थित उसके डिभी सम्मि 
लित हैं , नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों 
की बहपंख्या इस बात पर महमन हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 
का 19) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिएं 


[ No. 8 / 201 / 70 - PF . II (i) ]. 


4328 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[PART II 


अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा 
( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार 
उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू 
करती है । 


S . 0 . 2894. - In exercise of the powers conterred by 
first proviso to section 6 of the Employees Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , 
the Central Government, after making necessary en 
quiry into the matter , hereby specifies , with effect from 
the 31st July , 1970 , the establishment known as Messr s 
Associated Leather Enterprise Private Limited , 1 , 
Sangachi Ist Lane, Calcutta -48 for the purposes of the 
said proviso . 


यह अधिसूचना 1970 की अप्रैल के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जायेगी । 


[ No 


S. 35018/ 46 / 71 / PF -II (11).] 


[ सं० एम० 8 ( 208 ) / 70-पी०एफ० - 2 ] 


8 . 0 . 2893. -- Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
The Associated Cement Companies Limited (Chanda 
Cement Works, P .O , Cement Nagar , District Chanda 
including its branch , M /s . Sindda Limestone Quarry , 
District Yeotmal (Maharashtra ) have agreed that the 
provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and 
Farmily Pension Fund Act , 1852 ( 19 of 1962 ) , should be 
made applicable to the said establishment; 


का० प्रा० 2894. -- केन्द्रीय सरकार कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम, 1952 ( 1952 का 
19) की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुये, सम्बद्ध विषय में प्रावश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात् 31 
जुलाई, 1970 मे मैसर्स एसोसिएटिड लदर इटरप्राइज प्राइवेट 
लिमिटड, 1 - सपगाची फस्ट लेन , कलकत्ता - 46 नामक स्थापन 
को एतद्वारा उक्त परन्तुक के प्रयोजनों के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट 
करती है । 

[ सं० एस० 350 18 ( 47) / 71-भ० नि० 2 ( ii )] 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by such sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , 
the Central Government thereby applies the proyi 
sions of the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of March, 1970 . 


S . O . 2898 .- - Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
the Lok Shikshann Sanstha, Sirmour District , Rewa 
( M . P. ) have agreed that the provisions of the Em 
ployees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 
1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the 
said establishment; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by subsection (4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


. [ No. S .35017 ( 88 ) / 71 - PF . II ] 
का० प्रा० 2893 . -पतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसस एसोसिएटिड सीमेंट कम्पनी लिमिटेड , ( चंदा 
सीमेन्ट वर्क्स, पो० प्रो० सीमेंट नगर, जिला चन्दा, तथा इसकी 
शाखा , मैसर्स सिंदौला लाइम स्टोन क्वारी , जिला यवतमाल 
महाराष्ट्र नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों , 
की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 
का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 


This notification sha l be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of January , 1972. 


[ No. S .35019 ( 43 ) / 72 -PF.II .] 


का० प्रा० 2895 . - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि दि लोक शिक्षण संस्था , सिरमुर जिला , रिया , 
( म० प्र० ) नामक स्थापन से सम्बन्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों 
की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 
के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 


प्रतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा 
( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार 
उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लाग 
करती है । 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 


यह अधिसूचना 1970 के मार्च, के 31 वें दिन को प्रवृत्त 


यह अधिसूचना 1972 की जनवरी के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हई समझी जाएगी । 


हई समझी जायगी । 


[सं० एस- 35017 ( 88 )/ 71 -पी० एफ० 2) ] 


[ स० एस - 350 19 ( 43 )/ 72 -पी० एफ० 2] 


SEC. 3( i)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4329 


m 


निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त 
स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 


S . O . 2896 . - - Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Surendra Process Works, Shantinagar Industrial 
Estate, Unit No. 1 Ground Floor, Vokola Bombay - 55 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees 
Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 
( 19 of 1952) , should be made Applicable to the said 
establishment ; 


प्रतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार 
उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू 
करती है । 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - scction ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notifcation shal be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty - first day of March, 1971 . 

[ No. S. 35018 ( 23 ) / 72- PF .II. ] 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 के सितम्बर के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुए समझी जाएगी । 


[सं० एस - 35019 ( 20)/ 72– पी एफ 2 ] 


का० प्रा० 2896. - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार जो यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स सुरेन्द्र प्रोसेस वर्क्स , शांतिनगर ईन्डस्ट्रियल एस्टेट 
यूनिट न० 1 , ग्राउन्ड फ्लोर , वकीला बम्बई - 55 नामक स्थापन से 
सम्बन्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसध्या इस बार पर सहमत 
हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि 
अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन 
को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 


S . O . 2898. - Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Loose leaf Combines , 6 Krishnappa Maistry 
Street, Woods Road , Madras- 2 have agreed that the 
provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be 
made applicable to the said establishment; 


अत :, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 
____ यह अधिसूचना 1971 की जुलाई के इक्तीसवें दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment 


[ सं० एस० 35018( 23)/ 72-पी० एफ० 2] 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of March, 1972 . 

[ No. S . 35019 ( 53) / 72-PF .II.] 
का० प्रा० 2898. - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स लूज लीफ कम्बाइनस - 6 कृष्णप्पा मैस्त्री बुड्स 
रोड, मद्रास - 2 नमाक स्थापन से सम्बद्धनियोजक और कमचारियों 
की बहसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 195 2 ( 1952 का 19 ) 
के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 


S . 0 . 2897. - Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs National Motors Proprietor Mohan Enterprises 
( Rajasthan) Private Limited , Nayapura, Kota have 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees Provident 
Funds and Family Pengion Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should 
be made applicable to the said establishment; 


प्रतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतददवारा लाग करती है । 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment, 


यह अधिसूचना 1972 की मार्च के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of September , 1971 . 


[सं० फा० 35019( 53)/ 72-पी एफ - 2] 


[ No. S .35019 ( 20 ) / 72 - PF .II .] 


का० प्रा० 2897. - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स नैशनल मोर्टस प्रोप्राइटर मोहन इटरप्राइसेस 
( राजस्थान ) प्राइवेट लिमिटेद , नयापुरा, कोटा नामक स्थापन से 
सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसख्या इस बात पर 
सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन 


S . O . 2899.....- Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs CEFIC , 5, Kiron Sankar Roy Road , Calcutta- 1 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees 
Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 
(19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said 
establishment; 


4330 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[Part II - 


.. 


. 


- 


- 


Now , therefore , in cxercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


यह अधिसूचना 1970 के सितम्बर के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हई समझी जाएगी । 


This notification shal be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty - first day of March, 1971 . 


[ सं० एस --35018 ( 25 )/ 72- पी एफ 2] 


[ No. S.35017 (19 ) / 72 - PF.II . ] 


का० प्रा० 2899. - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स सीइक , 5, किरण संकर गय रोड, कलकत्ता - 1 , 
नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या 
इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और 
कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के 
उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिएं । 


S . 0 . 2901. - Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Navin Printers, 6 , Krishnappa Maistry Street, 

Woods Road, Madras - 2 have agreed that the provisions 
oľ the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , should be made applicable 
to the said establishment; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


प्रतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 


यह अधिसू वना 1971 को मार्च , के 31 वें दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 


This notification sha l be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of March, 1972 . 

[ No. S.35019 ( 54) / 72- PF . II .] 
का० प्रा० 2801 . - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार का यह 
प्रतोत होता है कि मैसर्म नवीन प्रिटिस , 6, कृष्णप्पा मस्त्री 
स्ट्रीट , वुड्स रोड , मद्रास - 2 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक 

और कर्मचारियों की बहु संख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि 
कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 
1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू 
किये जाने चाहिौं । 


[ सं० एम - 35017 ( 19 )/ 72 – पी एफ 2] 


S . O . 2900 .-— Whereas it appears to the Centrul 
Government that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 

Messrs Poona Gut Factory Kanchan Depot , 29/ 1 , Wan 
wari, Poona, Sholapur Road, Poona - 1 have agreed that 
the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952 ) , should 
be made applicable to the said establishment; 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करने हुये केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन का तवाग लागू करती 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub -section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


यह अधिसूचना 1972 की मार्च के प्रथम दिन को प्रवत्त 
होई समझी जायेगी । 


[सं० एम -- 350 19 ( 54) / 72 - पी० एफ० 2 ] 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of September , 1970 . 


[ No . S. 35018 ( 25 ) / 72 -PF.II . ] 


का० प्रा० 2900.-~ ~ यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स पूना गट फैक्ट्री, कंचन डिपो, 29/ 1, बनवाही , 
पूना , शोलापुर रोड , पूना - 1 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक 
और कमचारियों की बहसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि 
कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 
1952( 1952 का 19) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लाग 
किए जाने चाहिएं । 


S . O . 2902. - ] n exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause ( b ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 5A of the Em 
ployees Provident Funds and Fami. y Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ), the Central Government hereby 
appoints the Internal Financial Adviser and Deputy 
Secretary to the Government of India , Ministry of 
Labour and Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour 
and Employment ) , as a member of the Central Board 
of Trustees, and makes the following further amend 
ments in the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabili 
tation ( Department of Labour and Employment ) No . 
S . O . 2412 dated the 6th July , 1070, namely. 


In the said notification , for the entry against serial 
number 3, the following entry shall be substituted , 
namely : 


अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्ववारा लागू करती है । 


" Internal Financial Adviser and Deputy Secretary 

to the Government of India , Ministry of Labour 


Sec. 361y 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4331 


- - 


- 


and Rehabiltation, (Department of Labour and 
Employment ), New Delhi. 

[ No. 12 ( 2 ) / 68- PF .II. ] 
का० मा० 2902 : -कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और 
कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) की 


यह अधिसूचना 1970 के अक्तूबर, के प्रथम दिन को प्रस 
हई समझी जायगी । 

[सं० एस० 35019 ( 73) / 71--पी० ए402] 


का प्रयोग करते हुये केन्द्रीय सरकार, भान्तरिक वित्त सलाहकार 
और भारत सरकार के उपसचिव , श्रम और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय 
( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) को केन्द्रीय न्यासो बोर्ड के एक 
सदस्य के रूप में एतद्वारा नियुक्त करती है और भारत सरकार 
के श्रम, रोजगार और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार 
विभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं० का० नि० 2412 तारीख 6 
जुलाई, 1970 में निम्नलिखित पौर संशोधन करती है , अर्थात् : 


8 . 0 . 2904. - Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority or too 
employees in relation to tne establishment known as 
Messi s National Marketing Corporation , Pokhran Road 
No . 2 , MaJiwada, Thana - b have agreed that the provi 
slons of the Employees Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made 
applicable to the said establishment; 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by subsection ( 4 ) ol section 1 of the said Act , the 
Contral Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirtieth day of September, 1971. 


[ No. S. 35018 (17) / 72-PF. II (1) .] 


उक्त अधिसूचना में , क्रम सं० 3 के सामने वाली प्रविष्टि 
के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टि प्रतिस्थापित की जायेगी 
प्रर्थात् : 
" मान्तरिक वित्त सलाहकार और भारत सरकार के उप 

सचिव , श्रम और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार 
विभाग ) , नई दिल्ली " । 

• [ सं० 12( 2)/ 68 -पी० एफ० 2) 


का० प्रा० 2904-- यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैसर्स नेशनल भाटिग कारपोरेशन , पोखरन रोड , नं० 2, 
माजीवाड़ा, थाना - 6 नामक स्थान से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्म 
चारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी 
भविष्य निधि पार कुटंब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 
का 19) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 


S . O . 2903. - whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Sree Arasanayagi Chit Fund (Private ) Limited , 
Sattur and its Branches at Madurai, Virudhunagar and 
Sivakasi have agreed that the provisions of the Em 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन | एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 


Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 


यह अधिनचना 1971 की सितबर के तीसवे दिन को प्रदत्त 
हुई समझो जाएगी । 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment, 


[सं० एस० 35018 ( 17)/ 72 -पी० एफ० 2 (i) ] 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of October , 1970 . 

[ No. S . 35019 ( 73 ) / 71 - PF.II .] 


S . O . 2905 . -- In exercise of the powers conferred by 
Hile IT S NOviSo to bection G _ 01 time Employees Provi 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 
195 ? ) , tlie celuidd Government, alter niacing necessary 
eriliuiry into the mutter, he. eby specities witi eifect 
from the con cptember, 1971, the establishment known 
as WESSIS walional Marketing Corporation , Poknilau ) 
Road No . 2 , 2 .2lwada , Thaila - 6 for the purposes of the 
said proviso, 

[ No . S. 35018 (17 ) / 72 -PF.II ( 11 ). ] 


का० प्रा० 2903.-- - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स श्री आरसान्याजी चिट फण्ड ( प्राइवेट ) लिमिटेड , 
सैचुर तथा मदुराई, विरूदूनगर तथा सिवाकाशी में उसकी शाखायें 
नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या 
इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और 
कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के 
उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किये जाने चाहिये ; 

अत :, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुये केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
मधिनियम के उपबन्ध उस्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती 


का० प्रा० 2905. -- केन्द्रीय सरकार कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि भोर 
कूटम्ब पशन निधि अधिनियम , 195 2 ( 195 :) का 19 ) की धारा 
6 के प्रथम परन्तक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , संबन 
विषय में आवश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात् 30 सितम्बर, 1971 


4332 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


( PART II 


- 


- - - 


से नेशनल मार्केटिंग कारपोरेशन , पोखरन रोड नं० 2, माजीवाड़ा , 
थाना - 6, नामक स्थापन को एतदद्वारा उक्त परन्तुक के प्रयोजन के 
लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 


[स० एस० 35018( 17)/ 72-पी०एफ० II ( ii )] 


का० प्रा० 2907. - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स क्यु० 987 छत्रपति कोप्रापरेटिव मिल्क सप्लाई 
लिमिटड, छत्रपति पोस्ट राजा प्लायम , रामनाङ जिला नामक 
स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहसंख्या इस 
बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 
और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 
का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 

अतः, प्रब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती 


यह अधिसूचना 1972 की मार्च के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त हई 
समझी जाएगी । 

[ सं० एस० 35010( 51 )/ 72 -पी०एफ० 2(i)] 


S . O . 2906 . -- Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Manipal, Plumbing and Water Supply Works, 
Manipal, Udipi Taluk , Mysore State have agreed that 
the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be 
made app .icable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification sha l be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of June, 1971. 

___ [ No. S.35019 (49 ) / 72-PF . II .] 
का मा0 2 06.- यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि 
मैसर्स मनीपाल , प्लम्बिग एण्ड वाटर सप्लाई वर्क्स, मनीपाल, उडीपी 
तालक , मैसूर राज्य नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और 
कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी 
भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 
का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिएं । 

प्रतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधि 


S . O . 2908. - -In exercise of the powers conterred by 
first proviso to seclion 6 of the Employees Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , 
the Central Government, after making necessary enquiry 
into the matter, hereby specifles with effect from the 
1st March, 1972, the establishment known as Messrs 
Q . 987 Chatrapatti Co - operative Milk Supply Society 
Limited , Chatrapatti Post , Rajapalayam, Ramand Dis 
trict for the purposes of the said proviso . 


[ No. S. 35019 (51)/ 72 -PF.II( 11 ).] 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 की जून के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई 
समझी जाएगी । 


का० प्रा० 2908. - केन्द्रीय सरकार कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि , अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 
19 ) की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए , सम्बद्ध विषय में आवश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात् 1 मार्ष, 
1972 से मैसर्स क्यू० 987 छत्रपति कोआपरेटिव मिल्क सप्लाई 
लिमिटेड, छत्रपति पोस्ट , राजापलायम , रामनाङ जिला नामक 
स्थापन को एतद्वारा उक्त परन्तुक के प्रयोजन के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट 
करती है । 

[सं० एस० 35019 ( 51 )/ 72-पी०एफ० 2( ii )] 


[ सं० एस० 35019 ( 49 )/ 72 -पी० एफ० 2] 


S . 0 . 2907. - Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrg Q . 987 Chatrapatti Co -Operative Milk Supply 
Limited , Chatrapatti Post, Rajapalayam , Ramnad Dis 
trict have agreed that the provisions of the Employees 
Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 
( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said 
establishment; 


S . O . 2909. - Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Sowraj Pictures , Hari Palace Building , Jullundur 
City including its branch care of Simla Talkies Ferozpur 
City have agreed that the provisions of the Employees 
Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 
( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the sald 
establishment ; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub -section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the Cen 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the sald establishment ; 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of March , 1972. 

[ No . S. 35019 ( 51 ) / 72 - PF .II (11 ) . ] 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come foto 
force on the first day of November , 1971 . 

[ No. S. 35019 ( 52 ) / 72- Pr .III) .J 


Sec . 361) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 


4333 


- 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April, 1971 . 

[ No. S.35019 ( 103) / 71-PF. II (1). ] 


का० प्रा० 2909 - - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि ममर्स स्वराज पिक्चर्स , हरी पैलेस बिल्डिंग , जलन्धर 
शहर, जिसमें इसकी शाखा मार्फत शिमला टाकीज, फिरोजपुर शहर 
सम्मिलित है । नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों 
की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटुम्बपेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 
के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिएं ; 


का० प्रा० 2911 - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैमर्स लक्ष्मी स्टार्च लिमिटड , नचाराम , इन्डस्ट्रियल 
एरिया , हैदराबाद नामक संस्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और 
कर्मचारियों की बहुसंखया इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी 
भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 
का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लाग किए जाने चाहिए । 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एनद्वारा लागू करती 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हर केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लाग करती 
है । 


___ यह अधिसूचना 1971 के नवम्बर के प्रथम दिन को प्रवत्त 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ सं० एस -35019( 52 )/ 72-पीएफ 2(i) ] 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 की अप्रैल के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई 
समझी जाएगी । 

[सं०एम - 35019( 103 )/ 71 -पीएफ 2(i) ] 


8 .0 . 2010 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
first proviso to section 8 of the Employees Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , 
the Central Government after making necessary enquiry 
into the matter , hereby specifes with effect from 1st 
November , 1971 the establishment known as Messrs 
Sowraj Pictures , Hari Palace Building , Ju lundur City 
Including its branch care of Simla Talkies Ferozpur 
City for the purposes of the said provişo . 


[ No. S . 35019 ( 52)172- PF. II ( ii ).] 


S . O . 2912 . - In exercise of the powerg conferred by 
Arst proviso to section 6 of the Employees Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 (19 of 1952) , 
the Central Government, after making necessary en 
enquiry into the matter, hereby specifes with effect from 
the 1st April, 1971 the establishment known as Messrs 
Laxmi Starch Limited , Nacharam , Industrial Area , 
Hyderabad , for the purposes of the said proviso . 

[ No . S. 35019 ( 103 ) / 71- PF .II (11 ) .] 


का० प्रा० 2910 - केन्द्रीय सरकार कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निषि और कुटुम्बपेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 
की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हए सम्बद्ध विषय में प्रावश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात् नवम्बर , 
1971 के स्वराज पिक्चर्स , हरी पैलेस बिल्डिंग , जलघर शहर , 
जिसमें इसकी शाखा मार्फत शिमला टाकीज , फिरोजपुर शहर 
सम्मिलित है , नामक स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा उक्त परन्तुक के प्रयोजनों 
के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 


का० प्रा० 2912 ---- केन्द्रीय सरकार कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कूटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 
19) की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हए, सम्बद्ध विषय में आवश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात् 1 अप्रैल, 
1971 से मैसस लक्ष्मी स्टार्च लिमिटेड , नयाराम , इन्डस्ट्रियल 
एरिया, हैदराबाद नामक स्थापन को एतद्वारा उक्त परन्तुक के 
प्रयोजनों के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 

[सं० एस- 35019( 103 )/ 71-पीएफ2(ii)] 


[सं० एस - 35019( 52)/ 72- पीएफ 2 (ii) ] 


S . 0 . 2911 . - Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Laxmi Starch Limited , Nacharam , Industrial 
Area , Hyderabad have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to 
the said establishment ; 


S . O . 2913. - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the first proviso to section 8 of the Employees Provi . 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 
1952) , the Central Government , after making necessary 
enquiry into the matter , hereby specifies with effect 
from the 30th June, 1971 , the establishment known as 
Mesgr $ Pharmaceutical and Chemical Indentor s A 
Division of Sarabhai Song ( Private ) Limited , Acharya 
Jagadish Chandra Bose Road , Calcutta - 20 for the pur 
poses of the said proviso . 

[ No. S. 35017 (23 ) / 72 - PF , II(ii).] 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the gald Act to the said establishment, 


4334 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ Pirrr 


का० प्रा० 2913. - - केन्द्रीय सरकार कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 
और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) की 
धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , 
संबद्ध विषय में आवश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात् 30 जून , 1971 से 
मैसर्स फार्मास्यूटिकल एण्ड कैमिकल इंडेंटर्स (माराभाई सन्स 
( प्राइवेट ) लिमिटेड का प्रभाग ) , 1, प्राचार्य जगदीश चन्द्र बोस 
के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 

[ सं० एस - 35017 ( 23) / 72-पीएफ 2 (ii) ] 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of January , 1971. 

[ No. S. 35019 ( 177) / 71- PF .II. ] 
का० प्रा० 2915 . - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स न्यू लूक प्राइवेड लिमिटेड , नई दिल्ली - 20 , 
रीगल बिल्डिंग , कनाट प्लेस , नई दिल्ली नामक स्थापन से 
सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहसंख्या इस बात पर 
सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि 
अधिनियम, 1952 ( 1952 का 19) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन 
को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 


S . O . 2914 . - Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Pharmacutical and Chemical Indentors ( A Divi 
sion of Sarabhai Sons ( Private) Limited ] , 1 , Acharya 
Jagadish Chandra Bose Road , Calcutta - 20 have agreed 
that the provisions of the Employees Providert Funds 
and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should 
be made applicable to the said establishment; 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा 
4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार 
उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लाग करती 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


___ यह अधिसूचना 1971 की जनवरी के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जायगी । 

[ सं० एस-35019( 177)/ 71-पी०एफ० 2] 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirtieth day of June, 1971 . 

[ No . S. 35017 ( 23) / 72- PF.II (i). ] 
का० प्रा० 291 4. ---यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स फार्मास्युटिकल एण्ड कैमिकल इंडेन्टर्स ( साराभाई 
सन्स ( प्राइवेट लिमिटेड का प्रभाग ) , 1 - आचार्य जगदीश चन्द्र 
बोस रोड, कलकत्ता - 20, नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और 
कर्मचारियों की बहमख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी 
भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 
का 19 ) के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किये जाने चाहिएं ; 


New Delhi, the 18th July 1972 
S. 0 . 2916. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the 
first proviso to sectioh 6 of the Employees Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952), 
the Central Government after making necessary en 
quiry into the matter , hereby specifies with effect from 
the 1st April 1970 the establishment known as Messrs 
Raja Charity Trust , 150 / A , Mount Road. Madras - 2 in 
cluding its Depots at ( 1) No . 19 , 20 , 21 , Mooker Nalla 
munthu Street , G . T . Madras, ( 2 ) 23 / 1306, Mahatma 
Gandhi Road, Ernakulam, Cochin-16, and ( 3 ) 2 / 208, I 
Block I, Main Road , Rajaji Nagar , Bangalore - 10 for the 
purposes of the said proviso . 


[ No. S.8 ( 208) / 70 - PF .II ( ii ).] 


अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 


नई दिल्ली, 18 जुलाई, 1972 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 के जून के 30वें दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई 
समझी जायेगी । 

[सं० एस - 35017( 23 )/ 72-पीएफ 2(i) ] 


S . O . 2915 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Govern 
ment that the emplover and the mainrity of the em 
plovees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Nu - Look Private Ltd ., New Delhi, 20 -Regal 
Buildin Connaught Pince , New Delhi have agreed that 
the nrovisions of the Emplovees Provident Funds and 
Familv Pehsion Fund Act. 1952 (19 of 1952). should be 
made applicable to the said establishment; 


का० प्रा० 2916. - - केन्द्रीय सरकार कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि , अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 
का 19) की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का 
प्रयोग करते हुए, सम्बद्ध विषय में आवश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात् 
1 अप्रैल , 1970 से मैसर्स राजा चैरिटी ट्रस्ट , 150 / ए, माउन्ट 
रोड , मद्रास - 2, जिसमें ( 1 ) नं० 19, 20, 21, मूकर नल्लामुन्यू 
स्ट्रीट , जी . टी . मद्रास , ( 2 ) 23/ 1306 , महात्मा गांधी 
रोड , रणकुनमए कोचीन - 16, और ( 3 ) 2 / 208, आई ब्लाक , 
मैन रोड , राजाजी नगर , बंगलौर - 10 में स्थित उसके डिपो भी 
सम्मिलित हैं , नामक स्थापन की एतदद्वारा उक्त प्रयोजनों के 
लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 


Now , therefore in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


[ सं० एस-8( 208)/ 70-पी०एफ०-II ( ii ) ] 


Sec. sani _ 


Sec. 300 ] 


_ THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 


4395 


New Delhi, the 21st July , 1972 
S . O . 2917. In pursuence of clause ( e ) of sub - sec 
tlon ( 1 ) of section 5 - A of the Employees Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 
1952 ) , 
(1) Shri Sisir Kumar Ganguly , General Secretary 

I.N . T . U .C , Bengal Branch , Calcutta ; and 
( 11) Shri V . R . Hoshing, M . L . A ., General Secretary . 

Rashtriya Mill Mazdoor Sangh , Bombay ; 
as members of the Central Board of Trustees and 
makes the following further amendments in the noti 
fication of the Government of India . in the Ministry 
of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation ( Depart 
ment of Labour and Employment) No. S . O . 2412 , dated 
the 6th July , 1970, namely: - -- 

In the said notification against serial Nos 28 and 29 , 
for the entries , the following entries shall be substi 
tuted , namely : 
" ( 28 ) Shri Sisir Kumar Ganguly, General 

Secretary , IN T . U . C . Beneal Branch , 177 | B , 

Acharya Jagadish Bose Road, Calcutta - 14. 
(29 ) Shri V . R . Hoshing, M .L . A ., General Serre 

tary . Rashtriya Milt Mazdoor Sangh . Mazdoor 

Manzil , G . D . Ambekar Marg, Parel , Bombay 
12 ". 

[ No. 3 ( 5)/ 69- PF .II.] 
नई दिल्ली , 21 जुलाई , 1972 
का० प्रा० 2017 . -- - कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि पोर 
कुटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) की 
धारा क की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( क ) के अनुसरण में केन्द्रीय 
सरकार --- 


New Delhi, the 24th July 1972 
5 . 0 . 2918. - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
first proviso to section of the Employees Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , 
the Central Government after making necessary enquiry 
Into the matter , hereby specifles with effect from the 
30th April, 1972 , the establishment known as Messrs 
Shroffs Engineering Private Limited S , No. 635 . Kalali 
Road , Atladra District Baroda , for the purposes of the 
said proviso . 

___ [ No. S. 35019 ( 40) / 72 . PF .II ( 11).] 

नई दिल्ली , 24 जुलाई 1972 
का० प्रा० 2918.- केन्द्रीय सरकार , कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 
और कूदम्ब मेंशन निधि अधिनियम, 1952 ( 1952 का 10 ) 
की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हए, सम्बद्ध विषय में आवश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात 30 
अप्रैल , 1972 से श्राफ्म इजीनियरिंग प्राईवेट लिमटेड 
एस न . 635 , क्लाली रोड , पातलाद्रा डिस्ट्रिक्ट , बड़ौदा , 
नामक स्थापन को एतदद्वारा उक्त परन्तुक के प्रयोजनों के 
लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती हैं । 


[ स० एस० 35019( 40 ) / 72 पी० एफ० 2(ii )] 


- 


- 


- 


( i) श्री शिशिर कुमार गांगली , महा सचित्र आई० एन० 

टी० य० सी० बंगाल शाखा, कलकता ; और 
( ii ) श्री बी० पार होशिंग, वि० म० म०, महासचिव , 

. राष्ट्रीय मिल मजदूर संघ, बम्बई ; 
को केन्द्रीय न्यासी बोर्ड के मदस्यों के रूप में एनश्वारा नियन 
करती है और भारत सरकार के श्रम , रोजगार और पुनर्वास 
मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना म० का० प्रा० 
2412, तारीख 6 जुलाई, 1970 में निम्नलिखित और संशोधन 
करती है, अर्थात् : --- 

उक्त अधिसूचना में , क्रम सं० 28 और 29 के मामने , 
प्रविष्टियों के स्थान पर, निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टियां प्रतिस्थापित की 
जाएंगी, अर्थात् : 
" ( 28 ) श्री शिशिर कुमार गांगली, महासचिव , 

आई० एन० टी० य० मी० बंगाल शाखा , 177 / बी , 

आचार्य जगदीश बोस रोड , कलकत्ता - 14 । 
( 29 ) श्री बी० पार होशिंग, बि० स० म०, महासचिव , 

राष्टीय मिल मजदूर मंजिल , जी० डी० अम्बेकर 
मार्ग, परेल , बम्बई - 12 " । 

[ सं० 12( 5)/ 69 –पी० एफ० 2] 


New Delhi, the 24th July 1972 
S . 0 . 2919 - Whereas it appears to the Central Govern 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em 
ployees in relation to the cstablishment Ponown as 
Messrs United Investment Corporation, 14 / 1B, Ezra 
Street . Calcutta - 1 have agreed that the provisions of 
the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952) should be made applicable 
to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section (4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the sald establishment. 

This notifcation shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April , 1971 . 

___ [ No. S. 35017 (14) / 72- PF .II.] 
नई दिल्ली , 24 जुलाई 1972 
का प्रा 2919.--यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है 
कि मैसर्स युनाईटेड इन्वेस्टमेंट कार्पोरेशान , 14/ 1बी, इजरा 
स्ट्रीट , कलकत्ता - 1 नामक स्थान से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और 
कर्मचारियों की बहमख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई 
ह कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि 

अधिनियम , 1952 ( 195 2 का 19 ) के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन 
" को लागूकिए जाने चाहिए ; 

" अतः , अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लाग 
करती है । 

यह अधिन चना 1971 के अप्रैल, के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[स० एस० 35017( 14)/ 72 पी०एफ० 2] 


4336 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


(PART II. 


S . O . 2920 . -- Whereas it appears to the Central Govern 
ment that the employer and the majority oi the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs New India Machine Manufacturing Company , 
4 , Chandni Chowk Street, Calcutta - 13 have agreed that 
the provision of the Employees Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be 
made applicable to the said establishment; 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा ला 

यह अधिसूचना 1971 की मई के 31वें दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई 
समझी जाएगी । 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


[ सं० एस० - 35017( 54)/ 71-पी०एफ०2] 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of March , 1971 . 

[ No . S. 35017 / 11 / 72-PF.II .] 


S . O . 2922 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Govern 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Bosco Machinery Private Limited , 4 Chandni 
Chowk Stret , Calcutta-13 have agreed that the pro 
visions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made 
applicable to the said establishment; 


का प्रा० 29 20. - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स न्यू इण्डिया मशीन मैनुफैकचरिंग कम्पनी , 4 
चान्दनी चौक स्ट्रोग, कलकत्ता - 13 नामक स्थापन से सम्बन्ध 
नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो 
गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटाब पेंशन निधि अधि 
नियम 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) , के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू 
किए जाने चाहिए । 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section (4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


अतः अब उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लागू करती है । 


यह अधिसुचना 1971 के मार्च के 31वें दिन को प्रवत्त हुई 
समझी जाएगी । 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirtieth day of April, 1971 . 

___ [ No. S. 35017/15 /72-PF.II .] 
का०पा० 2922. - - यतः, केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैसर्स बोसको मशीनरी प्राईवेट लिमिटेड , 4, चान्दनी चौक 
स्ट्रीट , कलकत्ता - 13 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और 
कर्मचारियों की बहसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी 
भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 
का 19) , के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए , 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद,द्वारा लागू करती है । 
__ यह अधिसूचना 1971 के अप्रैल के 30वें दिन को प्रवत्त 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 


[ सं० एस० 35017 ( 11) / 72 -पी०एफ० 2] 


S . O . 2921.- Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Economic and Political Weekly , Skylark 284 
Frere Road , Bombay - 1, have agreed that the provisions 
of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pen 
sion Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , should be made ap 
plicable to the said establishment; 


[सं० एस० 35017 ( 15)/ 72 -पी० एफ० 2 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment . 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of May, 1971 , 


S . O . 2923. . Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Agricultural Produce Market Committee, New 
Monda , Nanded have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the 
said establishment; 


[ No . S. 35017 / 54 / 71 / PF .-II .] 


का०पा० 292 1.-~- यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स इक्नोमिक एण्ड पोलिटिकल वीकली, स्काईलार्क , 
284 फेरे रोड, बम्बई - 1 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और 
कर्मचारियों की बहसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी 
भविष्य निधि और कुटम् - पेंशन निधि अधिनियम, 1952 
( 1952 का 19 ) , के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लाग किए जाने 
चाहिए ; 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
hv sub- certion ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of October , 1971. 


[ No. S. 35017 ( 69 ) / 71 - PF.II .] 


. 


Sec. 301) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 ; ASVINA 29, 1894 

4331 

- - - - - - - - -- - - - - 
फा०मा० 2923. - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 

Messrs G . Loucatos and Company, Mercantile Cham 

bers , Graham Road , Ballard Estate, Bombay - 1 , have 
होता है कि मैसर्स एग्रीकलबरल प्रोडयस मार्केट कमेटी, न्यू मोन्डा , agreed that llię provisions of the Employees Provident 

Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 18 of 
नानवेश , नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की 

1952 ), should be made applicable to the said establish 
बहसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य 

ment; 
निधि मोर कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 

Now , therefo . e , in exercise of the powers conferred 

by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
19), के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिएं ; 

Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 

the suid Act to the said establishment, 
प्रतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) This notiAcation shall be deemed to have come into 

force on the thirty first day of December , 1970 . 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए सरकार उक्त अधिनियम 

[ No. S - 35018/ 31 / 72- PF . II. ] 
के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती है । 

का० आ० 2525 - - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
यह अधिसूचना 1971 के भक्टूबर के इकत्तिसवें दिन को 

होता है कि मैसर्म जी० लोकाटीस एण्ड के० कम्पनी , मरकन्टाइल 
प्रवत हुई समझी जाएगी । 

चम्बरी, ग्राहम रोड , बलाई एस्टेट , मुमबई - 1 नामक स्थापन से 

मम्बद्ध नियोजनक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात 
[सं० एस० - 35017 ( 69 ) / 71 - पी०एफ० 2] 

पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटम्ब 

पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) , के उपबंध 
8 . 0 . 2924 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Govern उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Indo -Overseas Trading Agencies , Gaumukh 

श्राः , अब उतन अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
Bhuvan , Opposite Masjid Railway Station , Bombay - 9 , द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्र य सरकार उक्त 
have agreed that the provisions oť the Employees Pro 
vident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 अधिनिराम के उगबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लागू करती 
of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said estab 
lishment ; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment , 


यह अधिसूचना 1970 के दिसम्बर के इकत्तीसवें दिन को 
प्रवृत्त हुइ समझी जाएगी । 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty Arst day of December , 1971 , 


[ सं० एस०- 350 18( 31 )/ 72 -पी०एफ० 2] 


[ No. S -35018/ 30 / 72-PF.II. ] 


S . O . 2926 .-- - Whereas it appcars to the Central Govern 
ment that the cmployer and the majority of the em 
ployecs in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Satyanarayan Bishnukumar , 14 , Naurmall Lohia 
Lana, Calcuttu - 7 have agreed that the provisions of 
the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , should be made applicable 
to the said establishment ; 


का०प्रा० 2924.-- -यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स इण्डो प्रोवरसीज ट्रैडिंग एजेन्सीज गोमुख भवन , 
मसजिद रेलव स्टेशन के सामने , बम्बई - 9 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध 
नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत 
हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि 
मधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19) , के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन 
को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 

प्रतः, प्रज, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एसद्वारा लागू करती है । 

मह अधिसूचना 1971 के दिसम्बर के इकत्तीसवें दिन को 
प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 


Now , therefcre, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section l of the said Act , the 
Central Government hcreby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment, 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty Arst day of March , 1071 . 


[ No. S . 35017 ( 12 ) / 72 - PF. II. ] 


[सं० एस0 - 35018 ( 30 )/ 72- पी०एफ० 2] 


का० प्रा० 29 26. ---यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रसित 
है कि भैसम सत्यनारायण विषण कुमार , 14 , नरमल लोहिया 
लेन , कलकत्ता - 7 नामक स्थान पर से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और 
फर्मचारियों की बहसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है 
है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटम्ब पेंशन निधि 
अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ), के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को 
लागू किए जाते चाहिए ; 


8 . 0 . 2926 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Govern 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4338 


PART 1 


अतः, अब उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लागू करती 


का० प्रा० 2928. - केन्द्रीय सरकार कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटम्ब पशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 
19) की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियो का प्रयोग 
करते हए, संबंध विषय में मावश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात 31 
मई , 1971 से इण्डो इन्डस्ट्रियल कापम्लक्स , पी - 22, स्वखों 
लेन , कलकत्ता - 1 नामक स्थापन को एतदद्वारा उक्त परन्तुक 
के प्रयोजनों के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 की मार्च के इकतीसवें दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हई समझी जाएगी । 


[ सं० एस० 35017( 12)/ 72-पी०एफ०2 ] 


[सं० एस० 35017 ( 33)/ 72- पी०एफ० 2 () ] 


S . O . 2927 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Govern 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Indo Industrial Complex , P -22- Swal ow Lane, 
Calcutta - 1 , have agreed that the provisions of the Em. 
ployees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 
1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the 
said establishment; 


s . 0 . 2929. - whereas it appears to the Central Govern 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs. Raja dye House , 27 - B , Eswaran Koil Street, 
(North ) Tiruppur- 4 have agreed that the provisions of 
the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable 
to the said establishment ; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment, 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April, 1972. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of May , 1971. 


[ No. S -35017 ( 33 ) / 72 - PF .II- (1) .] 


[ No . S - 35019 ( 64 ) / 72- PF . II. ] 


का० प्रा० 2927. - - पत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
है कि मेसर्स इण्डो इन्डस्ट्रियल काम्पलेक्स , पी - 22 स्वैलो लेन , 
कलकत्ता - 1 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों 
की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी 
भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 
( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाते 
चाहिए; 


का० प्रा० 2929. -- यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीस 
होता है कि मैसर्स राजा डाई हाउस , 27 - बी , ईश्वरन कोइल स्ट्रीट 
( उत्तर ) , तिरुप्पर-- 4 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और 
कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि 
कर्मचाभी भविष्य निधि और कूटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 
1952 ( 1952 का 19) के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लाग 
किए जाने चाहिए ; 


अत :, अब उक्त अधिनियम कीधारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू करती है । 


५ असः, अम उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लाग करती 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 की मई के इकत्तीसवें दिन को 
प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 


यह अधिसूचना 1972 के अप्रैल के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 


( सं० एस, - 35017( 33 )/ 72 -पी०एफ 2(i)] 


[ सं० एस० 35019( 64 )/ 72 -पी० एफ० 2] 


2 


S . 0 . 2928. - --In exercise of the powers conferred by 
first provişo to section 6 of the Employees Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , 
the Central Government after making necessary enquiry 
into the matter , hereby specifles with effect from the 
31st May, 1971 the establishment known as Messrs Indo 
Industrial Complex P -22 Swallow Lane, Calcutta- 1 for 
the purposes of the said proviso . 

[ No. S . 35017 / 33 / 72 - PF.II ( I ). ] 


S . O . 2930. - Whereas it appears to the Central Govern 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs . Kunkumam Printers and Publishers , Perun 
thanni, Trivandrum - 8 , including its branches Kunku 
mam Weekly , Trivandrum -8 and Keralasabdam Weekly 
Trivandrum - 8 have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 ( 18 of 1952 ), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 


SEc. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4339 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 के अक्तूबर के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub -section ( 4 ) of section I of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the sald establishment. 

This notification shall come into Inroc on the Thiriy 
first day of May, 1972. 

[ No . S - 35019 ( 60 ) / 72- PF. II.] 


[ सं० एम० - 35019 ( 65 )/ 72-पी०एफ० 2] 


कामा० 2930.- यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि 
मैसर्स कुकुमम प्रिन्टर्स , एड पब्लिस पेमनथनी , त्रिवेन्द्रम - 8 जिसमें 
इसकी शाखाएं , कुकुमम वीकली , त्रिवेन्द्रम - 8 और केरल सब्दनम 
वीकली ,त्रिवेन्द्रम -- 8 मम्मिलित है नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक 
और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या , इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि 
कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 
( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने 
चाहिए । 


S . O . 2932 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov . 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in rclation to the establishment known as 
the Messrs Tenzing Transports ( P ) Ltd , 9 - 1 - 71 , Raja 
ratnam Street, Sivakasi, Tamil Nadu State have agreed 
that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds 
and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , 
should be made applicable to the said establishment. 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of June, 1971 . 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्एद्वारा लागू करती 


[ No . S. 35019 ( 113 ) /71 - P. F.II (1) ] 


· वह अधिसूचना 1972 की मई के इकक्तोमवें दिन को प्रवृस 
होगी । 

[ सं० एस० - 35019( 60 )/ 72- पी०एफ० 2] 


का० प्रा० 2932.----यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स तेनजिंग ट्रांसपोर्टस (प्रा० ) लिमिटेड, 9 - 1 - 71 
राजरतनम स्ट्रीट , शिवकाशी, तमिलनाड राज्य नामक स्थापन 
से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर 
सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कूटम्ब पेंशन निधि 
अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19) के उपबन्ध उक्त 
स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 


S . O . 2931 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Govern 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs . Tradesworth , Lake Road , Commercial Building , 
Tezpur , Assam have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 


अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लाग करती है । 


Now, therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 की जून के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त हु 
समझी जाएगी । 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
forec on the first day of October , 1971 . 


[सं० एस०- 35019(113 )/ 71--पी० एम० 2 (i)] 


[ No. S- 35019 (65 ) / 72- PF.II.] 


का० प्रा० 293 1 - - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स ट्रेडसर्थ, लेक रोड़, कमर्शियल बिलिडिंग , तेजपुर , 
असम नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बह 
संख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 

और कुटम्बपेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19) के 
उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लाग किए जाने चाहिए ; 


S. O . 2933.--- In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the first proviso to section 6 of the Employees Provi 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 
1952) , the Central Government, after making neces 
sary enquiry into the matter , hereby specifies with 
effect from the 1st June, 1971 the establishment known 
as Messrs Tenzing Transports ( P ) Limited , 9 - 1 - 71 , 
Rajaratnam Street, Sivakasi, Tamil Nadu State for the 
purposes of the said proviso . 


[ No. S. 35019 (113 ) / 71- PF. IT. (ii).] 


अत :, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा 
( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार 
उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती 
है । 


का० प्रा० 2933 . - - केन्द्रीय सरकार, कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कूटम्बपेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 
की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हुए , सम्बद्ध विषय में आवश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात् 1 जून 1971 
से तेनजिंग ट्रांसपोर्टस ( प्रा . ) लिमिटेड, 9 - 1 - 71, राजरत्नम 


4340 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVÍNA 29. 1894 


[ PART 11 


स्ट्रीट , शिवाकाशी, तामिलनाड्राज्य , नामक स्थापन को एतद् 
द्वारा उक्त परन्तुक के प्रयोजन के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 


निधि और कुटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 
19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 

अतः, अब , उक्स अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती है । 


[ सं० एस० 35019 ( 113) / 71–पो० एफ० - 2 ( ii ) ] 


S . 0 . 2934 .- -- Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment, known as 
the Annavar Adike Company Limited , Sagar ( Shimoga, 
District ) have agreed that the provisions of the Em 
ployees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 


यह अधिसूचना 1972 की जानवरी के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जायगी । 


[सं० एस० - 35019( 33 )/ 72-पी० एफ० 2] 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April , 1. 972, 

[ No. S.35019/ 57 /12- PF.II.] 


S . O . 2936 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Jawahar Higher Secondary School Neyveli including 
its branches at Block No. 9 , Annexe and Block No. 18 , 
Child Welfare Centre , Neyvcli have agreed that the 
provisions of the Employees Provident Fund Family 
Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , should be made 
applicable to the said establishment ; 

Now. therefore, in exercise of the powers confer 
red by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , 
the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of June, 1970. 

[ No. S. 35019( 160) / 71 - PF. II .] 


का . पा . 2934. - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स अन्नावर आदिके कं . लिमिटेड , सागर ( शिमोगा 
जिला ) नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की 
बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 
19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लाग किए जाने चाहिए । 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती है । 

यह अधिसूचना 1972 के अप्रैल, के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जायगी । 


का प्रा . 2936. --- यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि जवाहर हायर सेकेन्डरी स्कूल , नेवेली, जिसमें ब्लाक नं0 9 
एनेक्सी और ब्लाक न० 18 चाइल्ड वेलफेयर सेन्टर , नेवेली , स्थित 
उसकी शाखाए सम्मिलित हैं , नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक 
और कर्मचारियों की बहसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्म 
चारी भविष्य निधि और कटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 
( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने 
चाहिए ; 


[ सं० एस० 35019 ( 57) / 72 पी०एफ० 2] 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । । 


S . O . 2935 . --- Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Tabor Estate, Asambur ( B. O . ) , Yarcaud 
( Post ) Salem District have agreed that the provisions 
of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pen 
sion Fund Act , 1952 (19 of 1952 ) , should be made ap 
plicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powerg conferred 
by sub - section (4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of January , 1972 . 


यह अधिसूचना 1970 की जून के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त समझी 
जाएगी । 


[सं० एस - 35019 ( 160 )/ 71-पी० एफ० 2 ] 


____ [ No. S. 35019 ( 33 ) /72- PF. II ] 


का . पा . 2935. - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैसर्स टाबर इस्टेट, असमबर ( बी० प्रो० ) येराकुड ( पोस्ट ) 
सलेम जिला नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों 
की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य 


S . O . 2937. - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the cm 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
the Bharat Forge Employees Cooperative Credit 
Society Ltd ., Mundhava , Poona - 1 have agreed that the 
provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 (19 of 1952 ) , should be 
made applicable to the said establishment; 


SEC . 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4341 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the Cen 
tral Government hereby applies the provision of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of May, 1971 . 

[ No. S.35018( 18 ) /72- PF.II (1).] 


Industrial Estate , Masrani Lane, Kurla , Bombay - 70 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees Pro 
vident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 
of 1952), should be made applicable to the said esta 
blishment ; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the raid Act , the Cen-- 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said cstablishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of October , 1971. 

INo. S -35018/ 27 / 72 - PF. II.] 


का० प्रा० 2937:- - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैमसं भारत फोर्ज एमप्लाईज कोमा परेटिव क्रेडिट सोसा 
यटी लिमिटेड, मुन्धवा, पूना -1 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक 
और कर्मचारियों की बहसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो 
गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्बपेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 
1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए 
जाने चाहिए । 


का० प्रा० 2939.-- - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स बीके मेटल इन्डस्ट्रियल, 37 और 38 सिंधपुरा 
इन्डस्ट्रियल एस्टेट , मसरानी लेन , कुर्ला मुम्बई - 70 नामक 
स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस 
बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब 
पेशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 195 2 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त 
स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 


अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदन शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधि 
नियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती है । 


। 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 की मई के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई 
समझी जाएगी । 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 का उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रमोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लाग करती है । 


[सं० एम०35018( 18 )/ 72-पी० एफ० 2(i) ] 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 के अक्टूबर के इक्तीसवें दिन की प्रवृत्त 
समझी जाएगी । 


[ सं० एस० 35018 ( 27 )/ 72-पी० एफ० 2] 


S . O . 2938. - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the Arst proviso to section 6 of the Employces Provi 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 (19 of 
1952 ) , the Central Government . After making necessary 
( nquiry into the matter , hereby specifies with cffect 
from the 1st May , 1971, the establishment known as 
The Bharat Forge Employecs Cooperative Credit 
Society Ltd ., Mundhwa, Poona - 1 for the purposes of the 
said proviso . 


[ No. S .35018 (18) / 72- PF,II ( ii ) .] 


S . O . 2940 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernmcnt that the employer and the majority of the cm 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Chemico Gaumukh Bhuwan Masjid Bunder 
Bridge , Bombay - 9 have agreed that the provisions of 
the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable 
to the said establishment; 


का० प्रा० 2938. -- केन्द्रीय सरकार कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 
और कटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) की 
धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हुए , सम्बद्ध विषय में आवश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात् 1 मई, 1971 
से भारत फोर्ज एमप्लाईज़ कोआपरेटिव क्रेडिट सोसायटी लिमिटेड , 
मुन्धवा पूना - 1 नामक स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा उक्त परन्तुक के प्रयो 
जनों के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub- section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the Cen 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of December , 1071. 

[ No. S - 35018/ 29 / 72 - PF.II. ] 


[ सं० एम०-35018 ( 18)/ 72-पी० एफ० 2 ( ii ) ] 


का० प्रा० 2940 : - - यत : केन्द्रीय मरकार को यह प्रनीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स कैमिको गोमुख भुवन मसजिद बन्दर ब्रिज , 
बम्बई- 9 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक पीर कर्मचारियों को 
बहमख्या इग बात पर महमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 
और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के 
उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 


S . O . 2939. - -Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority wf the cm 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Beckay Metal Industrial, 37 and 38 Sidhpura 


4342 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[PART II — 


अत :, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधि 
नियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लागू करती है । 

यह अधिसूचना 1971 की दिसम्बर के इक्तीसवें दिन को 
प्रवृत हुई समझी जाएगी । 


का०या० 2942. --केन्द्रीय सरकार कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और 
कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) की धारा 
6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हर, संबद्ध 
विषय में आवश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात प्रथम जुलाई 1970 से 
मैसर्स डा० घाटे एण्ड एसोसिएट्स , माल्डन हाउस, 29- न्यू मेरीन 
लाइन्स , मुम्बई - 20 नामक स्थापन को एतदद्वारा उक्त परन्तुक के 
प्रयोजनों के लिए विदिष्ट करती है । 


[सं० एस० 35018 ( 29)/ 72-पी० एफ० 2] 


[सं० एस०- 350 18 ( 35 )/ 72-पी०एफ० 2(ii)] 


S . O . 2941 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the em 
ployces in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Dr. Ghate and Associates , Maldon House, 29 
New Marine Lines, Bombay - 20 , have agreed that the 
provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , should be 
made applicable to the said establishment; 


S . O . 2943. - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the cm . 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs . Three Stars Engineers, Ghaswala Estate , New 
Building, No. 3 , Shop No. 6 , 173 Arthur Road , Tardeo , 
Bombay - 34 have agreed that the provisions of the Em 
ployees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment: 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
hy sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the Cen 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the Cen 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said cstablishment. 


This notifcation shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of July , 1970 . 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of March , 1971 , 


[ No. S -35018 ( 38 ) / 72 - PF .II ( i). ] 


[ No . S-35018 (38 ) / 72 -PF . II. ] 


का० प्रा० 2941.- यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है 
कि मैसर्स डा० धाटे एण्ड एसोसिएट्स , माल्डन हाउस, 29-यू मेरीन 
लाईन्स , मम्बई- 20 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्म 
चारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी 
भविष्य निधि और कटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 
का 19) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 


का० प्रा० 2943 -- यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैसर्स थो स्टार्स इन्जीनियर्स , धामवाला एस्टेट, न्यू बिल्डिंग , 
सं0 - 3, शाप सं० - 6, 473--प्रार्थर रोड , तारदेव , मुम्बई - 34 
नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या 
इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब 
पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 195 2 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त 
स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 


अत :, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधि 
नियमके उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 


अत :, अब , उक्त अधिनियम , की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हा केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त प्रधि 
नियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 


यह अधिसूचना 1970 की जुलाई के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी आएगी । 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 के मार्च के इकत्तीसवें दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 


[ सं० एस० 35018( 38 )/72-पी० एफ० 2] 


[ सं० एस०- 35018 ( 35 ) / 72 -पी०एफ० 2(i) ] 


301 


S . O . 2942. - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the first proviso to section 6 of the Employecs Provi 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 
1952 ) , the Central Government. After making necessary 
enquiry into the matter , hereby specifies with effect 
from the 1st July , 1970 the establishment known as 
Messrs Dr. Ghate and Associates, Maldon House, 29 
New Marine Lines , Bombay - 20 for the purposes of the 
said proviso . 


S . O . 2944 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs . Ketu Textiles, 732 . SIS Vithaldas Lane, M . J . 
Market , Bombay - 2 have agreed that the provisions of 
the Employers Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable 
to the said establishment; 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the Cen 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 


[ No. S - 35018 ( 36 ) / 72 - PF.II ( 11 ). ] 


SEC . 3( 1) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4343 


%3 


. 


. . 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the Thirtleth day of June, 1971 . 

[ No. S.35018 ( 39) / 72- PF.II . ] 


का० प्रा० 2944. - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है 
कि मैमर्स केतु टैक्सटाइलस , 732, सर विठ्ठलदास लेन , एमजे० 
मार्केट, मुम्बई, 2 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्म 
चारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी 


S . O . 2946. ---In exercise of the powers conferred by 
first proviso to section 6 of the Employees Provi 
dent Funds and Family Pensioth Fund Act , 1952 (19 of 
1952 ) , the Central Government, after making necessary 
enquiry into the matter, hereby specilies with effect 
from the 30th November, 1971 the establishment. known 
as Messrs Footwear Equipment , 257, Jodhpore Park, 
Calcutta- 31 including its branch at 16, Prince Anwar 
Shah Road , Calcutta - 33 for the purposes of the said 
proviso . 


[ No. S.35017 / 30 / 72- PF.II (ii). ] 


का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम , की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन का एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 

यह अधिसूचना 1971 के जून के तोसवें दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई 
समझो जाएगो । 

[ मं० एस० 35018 ( 39)/ 72-पी०एफ० 2 ] 


का० प्रा० 2946.-- केन्द्रीय सरकार कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 
कुटुम्ब पशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19) की धारा 
6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए संबद्ध 
विषय में प्रावश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात 30 नवम्बर, 1971 से 
फुटवियर इक्विपमेंट 257, जोधपुर पार्क , कलकत्ता - 31 जिसमें 
16 प्रिन्स अनवरशाह रोड कलकत्ता - 33 में इसकी शाखा सम्मिलित 
है, नामक स्थापन का एतद्द्वारा उक्त परन्तुक के प्रयोजनों के लिए 
विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 

[ सं० एस० 35017 ( 30) / 72 -मी ० एफ० 2( ii ) ] 


S . O . 2945 .- _ Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Footwear Equipment , 257, Jodhpore Park , Cal 
cutta -31 including its branch at 16 , Prince Anwar Shah 
Road , Calcutta -33 have agreed that the provisions of 
the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable 
to the said establishment; 


S. 0 . 2947 . - whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Sukhdeodass Beheti and Company , 14, Nurmal 
Lohia Lane , Calcutta - 7 have agreed that the provisions 
of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ), should be made applicable 
to the said establishment; 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub -section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the Con 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the Cen 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirtieth day of November, 1971. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of March, 1971 . 


___ [ No. S 35017 / 30 / 72 - PF .II (i ). ] 


INo. S - 35017 (22 ) /72- PF . II .] 


का० प्रा० 2945, - --यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
हैं कि मैंमर्स फटवियर इक्विपमेंट, 25 7, जोधपुरपार्क , कलकत्ता 3 1, 
जिसमें 16 -प्रिंम अनवर शाह रोड , कलकत्सा - 33 में इसकी शाखा 
सम्मिलित है , नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों 
की बहसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम ,1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 
के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 


का० प्रा० 2947. - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है 
कि मैपर्स सुखदेवदास बहेती एण्ड कम्पनी , 14, नरमल लोहिया ग्लेन 
कलकत्ता , 7 नामक स्थापन मे सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों 
की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 
के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम, की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम , के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लाग करती है । 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम , की धाग 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लागू करती है । 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 के नवम्बर, के तीसवें दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 के मार्च के 31वें दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई 
समझी जाएगी । 


[ सं० 


म० - 35017 ( 30 ) / 72 -पी० एफ० 2( ) ] 


[ सं० एस०--35017 ( 22 )/ 72 -पी० एफ० 2] 


4344 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 1894 


[ PART IL -- 


- - - - - 


S . O . 2948 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the ein 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Chaturbhai Enterprise , 2 , Gurudas Dutta Garden 
Lane, Calcutta - 4 have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Tund 
Act , 1952 (19 of 1952 ), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम 
के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लाग करतो है । 


Now , therefore , in excrcise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the Cen 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 के सितम्बर के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई 
समझी जाएगी । 

[सं० एस० 35017 ( 31 )/ 72-पी० एफ० 2] 


said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of March, 1971 . 


[ No. S - 35017 ( 21 ) / 72 - PF.II.] 


S . O . 2950. - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the niajority of the em 
ployees in relation to the cstablishincnt known as 
Messrs Bichitra , 65 G , T , Roud , (South ) Howrah , have 
agrecd that the provisions of the Employees Provident 
Funds and Family Pension fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , 
should be made applicable to the said establishment : 


का० प्रा० 2948.--- यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैसर्स चत्तरभाई इंटरप्राइम , 2, गरदाम दस्ता गार्डन लेन , 
कलकत्ता - 4 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों 
की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर महमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 
और कुटम्भ पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19) के 
उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किया जाने चाहिए ; 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub- section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act . the Cen 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
Said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of Septemler , 1971, 


अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधि 


[ No. S - 35017 ( 32) / 72- FF.II. ] 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 के मार्च के 31वें दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई 
ममझी जाए गी । 


[ सं० एस० - 38017 ( 21 ) / 72 पी० एफ02] 


का० आ . 2950 . - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैसर्स विचित्रा, 65-जी०टी० रोड, ( साउथ ) हावड़ा नामक 
स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात 
पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुदम्ब पेंशन 
निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबंध उक्त 
स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 

प्रतः, अब उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 को उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम 
के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतनधारा लाग करती है । 


S . O . 2949 . ---- Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the on 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Mess s Grace Sanitary and Marble Company , 2 
Brabourne, Road , Calcutta - 1 have agreed that the pro 
visions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be inadc 
applicable to the said establishment; 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 के सितम्बर के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हई ममझी जाएगी । 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub- section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the Cen 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 


( स० एस० 35017 ( 32 )/ 72-पी० एफ02 ) 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of September, 1971 , 


[ No. S -35017 / 31/ 72- PF,II.] 


s . O , 2951, - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the cm 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as the 
Messrs Everest Laminators, 41- Chowringhee Road , Cal 
cutta -16 and its factory at Madhymagrant , District 24 , 
Parganas, West Bengal have agreed that the provisions 
of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable 
to the said establishment: 


का० प्रा० 294 9. - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होना है कि मैसर्म ग्रेग मैनिटरी एइ मारबल क० , 2, बार्न रोड , 
कलकत्ता - 1 नामक स्थापन से मम्ब नियोजक और कर्मचारियों 
की बहसंख्या इस बात पर गहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 
और कुटम्भ पैशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 
के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू कर जाने चाहिए ; 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the Con . 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of thn 
said Act to the said establishment. 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


SEC . 3( 6) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 

4345 

. . . .. . . . . .. . 
This notification shall be decmed to have come into 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
force on the thirty first clay of May , 1979. 

by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the Cen 

tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
[ No. S. 35017( 34 ) / 72- PF . II (1) . ] said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
का० प्रा . 2951.-- - यत :, केन्द्रीय मरकार को यह प्रतीत होता ___ force on the first day of November , 1970 . 
है कि मैमर्स एवरेस्ट लेमिनेटर्स , 41- चौरगी रोए, कलकत्ता -16 

[ No. S. 35018 ( 19 ) / 72 - PF . II.] 
नामक स्थापन और माध्यमग्राम,जिला 24- परगना , पश्चिमी बंगाल 

का० प्रा० 295 3. - ~- यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
में उसके कारखाने से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों को 

होता है कि मैमर्स आपटिक इडिया , 1144, सदाशिव पेठ पूना - 30 
बहुसंख्या इमबात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 

नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या 
और कुटुम्भ पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के 

इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटम्ब 
उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 

पैशन निधि अधिनियम 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबंध उक्त 
अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम को धारा 1 को उपधारा ( 4 ) 
के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लागू करती है । 

द्रवारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
यह अधिसूचना 1972 की मई के इकनीसवें दिन को प्रवत्त अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लागू करतो है । 
होंगी । 

यह अधिसूचना 1970 के नवम्बर के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
[ स० एस०- 35017 ( 34 )/ 72-पी० एफ० 2(i)] हुई समझो जाएगी । 

[ सं० एस० 35018 ( 19)/ 72-पो० एफ० 2] 


S . O . 2952.--- In exercise of the powers conferred by 
first proviso to section 6 of the Employees Provin 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952. (19 of 
1952 ) , the Central Governincnt, after making necessary 
enquiry into the matter , hereby specifies with effect 
from the 31st May , 1972, the establishinent known as 
Messrs Everest Laminators. 41 -Chowringhee Road, Cal 
cutta - 16 and its factory at Madhymagram , District 24 , 
Parganas, West Bengal for the purposes of the said 
proviso . 


S .O . 2954 , - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and themajority of the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Laxmi Flour Mills, Factory Shamnoor Road , 
Devangere including its office at Mandipet , Devengere , 
Mysore State have agresd that the provisions of the 
Employees Provident Funds and Family Fension Fund 
Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the Cen 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions if the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of March , 1971. 

[ No. S . 35019 ( 87 ) / 71- PF.II ( i). ] 


[ No. S. 35017 ( 34 ) / 72 - F.II ( ii ) .) 


का० श्रा ) 1952. - केन्द्रीय सरकार कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 
और कुटंम्भ पैशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) को 
धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए 
सबद्ध विशय में आवश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात 31 मई 1972 से 
एवेरेस्ट लेमिनेटस 41- चौरंगी रोड, कलकत्ता - 16 नामक स्थापन 
और मध्यमग्राम . जिला - 2.4- परगना पश्चिमी बंगाल में उनके कारखाने 
को एतदद्वारा उक्त परन्तुक के प्रयोजनों के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करतो है । 


[ सं० एस० 35017( 34 )/ 72-पी० एफ० 2( ii ) ] 


का० प्रा० 295 4.-- --यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैभर्स लक्ष्मी फलोर मिल्म , फॅक्टरी, शामनर , रोड, 
देव नगर तथा इसकी शाखा मंडीपेट, देवनगर , मंसूर स्टेट नामक 
स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात 
पर महमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन 
निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन 
को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को ए तद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 

यह अधिसूचना 1971 के मार्च, के प्रथम दिन को प्रवत्त हुई 
सममी जाएगी । 

[ सं० एस 0-35019( 87) / 71-पी० एफ० 2 ( i) ] 


S . O . 2953 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Goy 
ernment that the employcr and the majority of the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 

Messrs Optique India , 1144 , Sadashiv Peth, Poona- 30 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees Pro 
vident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 
of 1952) , should be made applicable to the said esta 
blishment ; 


2 


4346 


- - 


- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 

[ PART II - - 

- - - 
S. 0 . 2955. --.In exercise of the powers conferred by tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
the first proviso to section of the Employees Provi said Açı 1o the said establishnient. 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 
1952 ), the Central Government, after making necessary This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
enquiry into the matter , hereby specifies with effect force on the first day of January , 1972. 
from the lst March, 1971 the establishment known as 
Messrs Laxami Flour Mills , Factory Shamnoor Road , 

[ No. S.35019( 18) /72- PF. II .] 
Devangere including its office at Mandipet, Devangere 
Mysore State for the purposes of the said proviso , 

का० प्रा० 225 6.--- यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
[ No. S.35019 ( 87) / 71 - PF.II( ii ).] 

होता है कि मैसर्स वेन्कटश्वरा प्रायरन वर्ष स , 40/ 1, व्हाइट्स रोड, 
मद्रास- 14 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की 

बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 
का० प्रा० 2955. - - केन्द्रीय सरकार कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 

और कटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 
और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम, 195 2 ( 195 2 का 19 ) की 

के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 
धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 

अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
हुए, संबद्ध विषय में आवश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात् 1 मार्च, 1971 
से लक्ष्मी फलोर मिल्स, फैक्टरी शामनूर रोड़, देव नगर तथा इसकी 

द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 

अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती है । 
शाखा मंडी पेट, देव नगर, मैसूर स्टेट नामक स्थापन को एतद्वारा 
उक्त परन्तुक के प्रयोजनों के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 

यह अधिसूचना 1972 की जनवरी के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 

हई समझी जाएगी । 
[ म० एस०- 35019 ( 87) / 71-पी० एफ० 2 (ii) ] 

[सं० एस 0- 35019 ( 18) / 72-पी० एफ० 2] 


S .O . 2956 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Venkateswara Iron works, 40 /1, Whites Road , 
Madras-14 have agreed that the provisions of the Em 
ployees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ), should be inade applicable to 
the said establishment ; 


S. O . 2957. -- In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 73F of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 
( 34 of 1948 ), the Central Government, having regard to 
the location of the factories specified in2 column (4 ) of 
the Schedule hereto annexed in treag specificd in 
column (3) of the said Schedule in the State of Bihar 
in which the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the 
said Act are not in force, hereby exempts the said 
factories from the payment of eroployer s special 
contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said 
Act for a period of one year from the dates 
publication of this notification in the Official Gazette or 
until the enforcement of provisions of Chapter V of 
the said Act in those areas, whichever is earlier . 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powerg ronferred . 
by sub -section (4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the Cen - 


SEC. 3 (ii ) 
- - -- -- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29 , 1894 
- :-. - .- . - -- 

- - .. 
- 

- - - - - - -- . - - - - - - 


4347 
- - - - - 


- 


- - - 


- - - - 


-- - - -- 


_ .- . ..- - - 


SCHEDULE 


कारखाने का माम 


क्रम सं० जिले क्षेत्र का 

का नाम नाम 


Name of Arcu 


Namo of the factory 


$ 1. 
No . 


Name of 
District 


- - - 


- - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - 


- - .. . 


• , . 


- - --- - 


(1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


I. Dhanbad 


. 


Mohuda . 


3. 


गया 


टेहटा 


कम्पनी ( प्राइवेट लिमिटेड , 
मधुपुर और डाकघर मधुपुर , 
संथाल परगना 
42 - 2394 -43 
मैसर्स सिन्हा एण्ड सन्स , टेहा 

रेलवे स्टेशन , पी० जी० लाइन , 
गया । 
42 - 2272 - 43 
मैसर्स शाह टाइल्स , नवादा , मारा 

शाहाबाद । 


Madhupur . 


42 - 3398 - 53 
Messrs Jai Steel In - 
dustry Mohuda 

More, P . O . Mohuda 
Dhanbad . 
42- 2783 

MessrsM. L . Bose & 
Co., ( Pvt . ) Ltd . , At 
and P . O . Madhupur , 
Santhal Pargana . 
42 - 2394- 436 
Messrs Sinha and 
Sons, Tehta Rail 
way Station, P . G , 
Line,Gaya . 


2 . Santhal Par - 

gan . 


___ 


शाहाबाद पारा 


3. Gaya 


Tchta 


- - -- - - 


- 


[ सं० फा० एस० 38014 ( 24 )/ 72- एच ० प्राई ० ] 


4. Shahabad 


Arrah . 


42 - 2272 - 43 
Messt s Shah Tilys 

Nawada Arrah , Sha 
habad . 


S . O . 2958 . In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 88 of the Employees State Insurance Act , 1948 
the Goyernment of India in the Ministry of Labour , 
Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment ) No . S . O . 3675 , dated the 7th August , 
( 34 of 1948 ), and in continuation of the notification of 
1971 the Central Government hereby exempts the pre 
17th November , 1961 employees of the India Meteoro 


[ No. F. S -38014( 24) /72- HI ] 


tion of the said Act except Chapter VA for a further 
period of one year with effect from the date of expiry 
of the period specified in the said notification subject 
to the conditions specified in paragraph 2 below: 


2 . ( i) The aforesaid factory ghall maintain a register 
showing the names and designations of the employees ; 


and 


का० आ० 2957 ---- कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 
1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 73च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची के 
स्तम्भ ( 4 ) में विनिर्दिष्ट कारखाने की , उक्त अनुसूची के स्तम्भ 
( 3 ) में विनिर्दिष्ट बिहार राज्य के ऐसे क्षेत्रों में , जिसमें उक्त 
अधिनियम के अध्याय 4 और 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवृत्त नहीं हैं , अवस्थिति 
को ध्यान में रखते हुए, उक्त कारखाने को , उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 
5 - क के अधीन उग्रहणीय नियोजकों के विशेष अभिदाय के संदाय 
से , इस अधिसूचना के शासकीय राजपत्र में प्रकाशन की तारीख 
से एक वर्ष की अवधि के लिए या तब तक के लिए जब तक उक्त 
माधिनियम के अध्याय 5 के उपबंध उन क्षेत्रों में प्रवृत्त नहीं हो जाते , 
जो भी पहले हो, एतद्द्वारा छूट देती है । 

अनुसूची 


( ii ) that , notwithstanding this exemption, the em 
ployees shall continue to receive such benefits under 
the said Act to which they might have qualified on the 
basis of contributions paid before the dates of cxemp 
tion, 


[ No. F . S- 38017 ( 60 ) / 72- HI. ] 


-- - - - - 


- - - - - 


-- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


कारखाने का नाम 


क्रम सं० जिले का क्षेत्र का 

नाम नाम 


का प्रा० 2958. - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 
1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 88 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रम , रोजगार और 
पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना 
सं० का० प्रा० 3675, तारीख 7 अगस्त , 1971 के क्रम में , केन्द्रीय 
सरकार पूना स्थित दी इन्डिया मेटियो - रो- लोजिकल डिपार्टमेंट 
वर्कशाप के 17 नवम्बर, 1961 के पूर्व के कर्मचारियों को , अध्याय 
5 -क के सिवाय उक्त अधिनियम के प्रवर्तन से , उक्त अधिसूचना 
की कालविधि के अवसान की तारीख से एक वर्ष की और अवधि 
के लिए निम्नलिखित पैरा 2 में विनिर्दिष्ट शर्तों के अधीन रहते 
हुए , एतद्वारा छूट देती है : --- 


1. 


धनबाद मोहुदा 42 - 3398--53 

मैसर्स जय स्टील , इन्डस्ट्री 

मोहुदामोर , डाकघर मोहुदा , 
धनबाद । 


संपाल मधुपुर 42 - 2783 
परगना 

मैसर्स एम० एल० बोस एण्ड 


2 


2. ( i ) पूर्वोक्त कारखाना एक रजिस्टर रखेगा जिसमें 

कर्मचारियों के नाम और पदनाम होंगे ; और 


- - - -- . 


4348 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29. 1894 


IPART II 


( ii ) इस छूट के होते हुए भी , कर्मचारी उक्त अधिनियम 

के अधीन ऐसी प्रसुविधाएं प्राप्त करते रहेंगे जिनके 
लिए वे छूट की तारीख से पूर्व संदत्त अभिदायों के 
अाधार पर अहित हुए हों । 
[ सं० फा० एस० 38017 ( 60 ) / 72 - एच० आई . ] 


मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं० का० 
श्रा० 3678 तारीख 7 अगस्त , 1971 के क्रम में केन्द्रीय सरकार 
अांध्र यूनिवसिटी प्रेस, वाल्टेर नामक कारखाते की ऐसी क्षेत्र में , 
जिसमें उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 4 और 5 के उपबंध प्रवृत्त है 
अवस्थिति को ध्यान में रखते हुए उक्त प्रेस को उक्त अधिनियम के 
अध्याय 5क के अधीन उद्ग्रहणीय नियोजक के विशेष अभिदाय के 
संदाय से 10 जुलाई , 1972 से 9 जुलाई , 1973 तक जिसमें वह 
दिन भी सम्मिलित है, एक और वर्ष की कालाविधि के लिए एतद् 
वारा छूट देती है । 


[ सं० एस० 38017( 46 )/ 72 - एच० आई० ] 


8 . 0 . 2959, — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 73F of the Employees State Insurance Act , 1948 
( 34 of 1948 ) , and in continuation of the notilication of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour 
and Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour and Em 
ployment ) No . S . O . 3670 dated the 7th August , 1971 the 
Central Government having regard to the location of 
the Government Photo Registry , Poona, in an area in 
which the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the said 
Act are in force , hereby exempts the sald Photo Registry 
from the payment of the employer s special contribu 
tion leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act for a 
further period of one year with effect from the 11th 
August, 1972 upto and inclusive of the 10th August , 
1973 . 


S . O , 2961 , - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 73F of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 
( 34 of 1948 ) , and in continuation of the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour 
and Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour and Employ 
ment ) No . S . O . 3362, dated the 18th August, 1971 the 
Central Government having regard to the location of 
the 220 K . V . Sub - Station Sahupuri, belonging to the 
Uttar Pradesh Electricity Board , in an area in which 


[ No . F . S . 38017 / 6:2 / 72- HI. ] 


are in force, hereby exempts the said Sub - Station 
from the payment of the employer s special contribu 
tion leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act for a 
further period of one year with effect from the 1st 
August , 1972 upto and inclusive of the 31st July , 1973 . 


[ No. F . S -38017 ( 49 ) / 72- HI . ] 


का० प्रा० 2959 --- कर्मचारी राज्य अधियनयम , 1948 
( 1948 का 34) की धारा 73-च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रम और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम , 
और रोजगारविभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं० का०मा० 3670 तारीख 
7 अगस्त , 1971 के क्रम में केन्द्रीय सरकार गवर्नमेंट फोटो रजिस्ट्री , 
पूना की ऐसे क्षेत्र में , जिसमें उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 4 और 5 
के उपबंध प्रवृत्त है, अवस्थिति को ध्यान में रखते हुए उक्त फोटो 
रजिस्ट्री को उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5क के अधीन उग्रणीय 
नियोजक के विशेष अभिदाय के संदाय से 11 अगस्त , 1972 से 
10 अगस्त, 1973 तक जिसमें वह दिन भी सम्मिलित है, एक और 
वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए एतद्वारा छूट देती है । 

[ सं० फी० एस० 38017 ( 62)/ 72 - एच ० आई० ] 


का० आ० 296 1--- कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनमिय , 
1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 73च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रम और पुनर्वास 
मन्त्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं० का० 
प्रा० 3362, तारीख 18 अगस्त , 1971 वे क्रम में केन्द्रीय 
सरक र उत्तर प्रदेश विद्युत बोर्ड के 220 के० वी० सब स्टेशन 
साहपूरी की ऐसी क्षेत्र में , जिसमें उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 
4 और 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवृत हैं , अवस्थिति को ध्यान में रखते हए 
उक्त सब-स्टेशन को उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5क के अधीन 
उद्ग्रहणीय नियोजक के विशेष अभिदाय के संदाय से 1 अगस्त , 
1972 से 31 जुलाई 1973 तक जिममें वह दिन भी सम्मिलित 
है, एक और वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए एतद्द्वारा छूट देती है । 

[सं० एस० 38017( 49 )/ 72-एच० आई० ] 


S. O . 2960. - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 73F of the Employees State Insurance Act , 1948 
( 34 of 1948 ) , and in continul on of the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, 
and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employ 
ment ) No . S . O . 3678 , dated the 7th August , 1971 , the 
Central Government having regard to the location of 
the factory , namely , Andhra University Press , Waltair , 
in an area in which the provisions of Chapters IV and 
V of the said Act are in force , hereby exempts the said 
press from the payment of the employer s special con 
tribution leylable under Chapter VA of the said Act 
for a further period of one year with effect from the 
10th July, 1972 upto and inclusive of the 9th July , 1973 . 


[ No. F . S - 38017( 46 ) / 72 - HI. ] 


S . O , 2962 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 73F of the Employees State Insuran : e Act , 1948 
( 34 of 1948 ) , and in continuation of the rolification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, 
Employment and Rehabilltation (Department of Labour 
and Employment) No . S .O . 1141 dated the 22nd Febru 
ary , 1971 the Central Government having legard to 
the location of the factories specified in column ( 4 ) of 
the Schedule hereto annexed in areas specificd in 
column ( 3 ) of the said Schedule in the State of Maha 
rashtra in which the provisions of Chapters IV and V 
of the said Act are not in force , hereby exempts the 
said factories from the payment of employer s special 


का० प्रा० 2960 - - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 
1948 ( 1948 का 34) की धारा 73च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रम और पुनर्वास 


SEC . 3( ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4349 


___ - 


- 


- 


contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said 
Act for a further period of one year with effect from 
the date of expiry of the period specified in the said 
notlication or until the enforcement of provisions of 
Chapter V of the said Act in those areas, whichever is 
earlier . 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 90 of the said Act and in continuation of the 
notifcation of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
und Employment) No. S . O . 3914 , dated the 18th Septein 
her, 1971, the Central Government . after consultation 
with the Employees State Insurance Corporation , 
hereby exempts the above mentioned factory from all 
lhe provisions of the said Act for a further period of 
one year with effect from the 6th July , 1972 upto and 
inclusive of the 5th July , 1973 . 


SCHEDULE 


Namo of area 


Name of the factory 


Nume of 
District. 

( 2 ) 


( 1) 


( 4 ) 


[ No . F . S- 38017 ( 45 ) / 72 - HI ] 


I . Kolaba 
2 . Kolaba 


. 
. 


Pen 
Rolia . 


Messrs Prabhat Kala 

Mandir . 
Mcasts Premier Paper 
Mills , Limited . 


का० प्रा० 2963 - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि भारत सरकार के भारत सरकार मुद्रणालय , कोरटी 
त्रिचुर जिला ( केरल राज्य ) के कर्मकारों को , कर्मचारी राज्य 
बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) के अधीन उम्बंधित 
प्रसूविधाएं जैमी सारतः प्रसुविधाएं प्राप्त हैं । 


[ No. F . S.38017 / 39 / 72 - HI .] 
का० प्रा० 2962 - - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 
( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 73च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रम , रोजगार और पुनर्वास 
मन्त्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) , की अधिसूचना सं० 
का० प्रा० 1141 तारीख 22 फरवरी, 1971 के क्रम में केन्द्रीय 
सरकार इममे उपाबद्ध अन्स ची के स्तम्भ ( 4 ) में विनिर्दिष्ट 
कारखानों की उक्त अनमूची के स्तम्भ ( 3 ) में विनिदिष्ट महा 
राष्ट्र राज्य के ऐसे क्षेत्रों में , जिसमें उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 
4 और 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवृत्त नहीं हैं , अवस्थिति को ध्यान में रखते 
हुए उक्त कारखाने को उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5क के अधीन 
उदग्रहणीय नियोजक के विशेष अभिदाय के संदाय में , उक्त अधि 
सूचना में विनिदिष्ट अवधि की समाप्ति की तारीख से एक वर्ष 
की अवधि के लिए या तब तक के लिए जब तक कि उक्त अधि 
नियम के अध्याय 5 के उपबन्ध उन क्षेत्रों में प्रवृत्त नहीं हो 
जाते , जो भी पहले हो , एतद्द्वारा छूट देती है । 

अनुसूची 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 90 धार। प्रदत्त 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रम और 
पुनर्वास मन्त्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना 
सं0 391 4 तारीख 18सितम्बर , 1971 के क्रम में केन्द्रीय सरकार 
कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा निगम से परामर्श करने के पश्चात् , एतद 
द्वारा उक्त कर्मशाला को उक्त अधिनियम के प्रवर्तन से 6 जुलाई, 
1972 मे 5 जुलाई, 1973 तक , जिसमें यह दिन भी सम्मि 
लित है , एक और वर्ष की अवधि के लिए छूट देती है । 

[ सं० फा० एम- 38017 ( 45 )/ 72-एच० प्राई० ] 


की । 


S . O . 2964 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 87 of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 
(it cf 1948 ) and in continuation of the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of labour 
ard Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour and Em 
ployment ) No. S . O . 497, dated the 25th January , 1972 
the Central Government hereby exampts the Damogar 
Valley Corporation sub - station , Howrah , from all the 
provisions of the said Act for a further period of one 
year with effect from the date of expiry of the period 
specified in the said notification , 


कारखाने का नाम 


क्रम सं० जिले का 

नाम 
( 1 ) ( 2) 


क्षेत्र का 
नाम 
( 3 ) 


[ No . F . S. 38017 / 63 / 72 - HI. ] 


कोलाबा पैन 


मैसर्स प्रभात कला मन्दिर 


[ सं० फा० एम०- 38017 ( 39 )/ 72-एच पाई . ] 


का० प्रा० 2964 - - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 
1948 ( 1948 का 34) को धारा 87 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्चम और पुनर्वास मन्त्रा 
लय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं० का० प्रा० 
197 तारीख 25 जनवरी, 1972 के क्रम में केन्द्रीय सरकार 
एतदद्वारा दि दामोदर येलो कार्पोरेशन सब -स्टेशन हावड़ा को 
उक्त अधिनियम के सभी उपबन्धों मे उक्त अधिसूचना में विनि 
दिष्ट अवधि की समाप्ति की तारीख से एक वर्ष और की अवधि 
के लि छुट देतीए है । 


S . O . 2963. — Whereas the Central Government is 
satisfied that the employees of the Government of 
India Press , Koratty , Trichur District (Kerala State ) 
belonging to the Government of India are otherwise in 
receipt of benefits substantially similar to the benefits 
provided under the Employees State Insurance Act, 
1948 ( 34 of 1948) . 


[ सं० फा० एम - 38017( 63 )/ 72-एच० प्राई० ] 


[ PART 11 


4350 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


- 


Si. Nameof Distriat Name of arsa 


Name of Factory 


No . 


S . O . 2965 . .In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 73F of the Employees State Insurance Act , 1948 
( 34 of 1948 ) , and jn ( ontinuation of the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and 
Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour and Employ 
ment ) No. S . O . 2771 dated the 5th July , 1971 the 
Central Government having regard to the location of 
the factory, namely , Drainage Main Pumping Station , 
Ramnad Road , Madurai belonging to the Madurai 
Municipality , in an area in which the provisions of 
Chapters IV and V of the said Act are in force, hereby 
exempts the said factory from the payment of the 
employer s special contribution levlable under Chapter 
VA of the said Act for a further period of one year 
with effect from the 31st May, 1972 upto and inclusive 
of the 30th May, 1973, 


( 2 ) M / s. Kalna Pow 
crloom Cooperativo 
Union Limitod . 


Guskara 


M /s . Guskara Oil 
Mills and Company . 


Memari 


[ No . F. 3817 / 42 / 72- HI. ] 


M / s. C . P. Casting 
Co - operation .) 

M/ s. Dasghora Hand 
made Paper Centre 


2. 


Hooghly 


. 


Dasghora. 


. 


3. Jalpaiguri 


. 


Ehtiasal 


. 


( I ) M /s. Mooljce Iron 

and Steel Industries , 
( 2 ) M / s. Fertrazzinis , 


4. 


Nadia . 


. 


Taherpur. 


. 


M / s. Tahcrpur Power 

loom No. 2 Coopera 
tive Society Limi 
tod , R . I. C . Produc 
tion Centre. 


का० प्रा० 2965 - - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 
1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 73च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हए और भारत सरकार के श्रम और पुनर्वास मन्त्रा 
लय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं० का प्रा० 
2771 तारीख 5 जुलाई, 1971 के क्रम में केन्द्रीय मरकार 
मदुराई म्युनिसिपैलिटी के ड्रेनेज मेन पपिंग स्टेशन , गमानन्द 
रोड , मदुराई नामक कारखाने के ऐसे क्षेत्र में , जिसमें उक्त अधि 
नियम के अध्याय 4 और 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवृत्त हैं , अवस्थिति को 
ध्यान में रखते हार उक्त कारखाने को उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 
5 क के आधीन उद्ग्रहणीय नियोजन के विशेष अभिदाय के संदाम 
से 31 मई , 1972 में 30 मई , 1973 तक जिसमें वह दिन भी 
मम्मिलित है , एक और वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए एतदद्वारा 
छुट देती है । 

[ सं० फा० एम- 38017 ( 42 )/ 72-एच०आई० ] 


5 . Purulia. 


. 


Purilia . 


( 1 ) M / s. NMirjarmull 
Rameshwarlal Alu 
minium Factory. 


Jhalda 


. (1) M /s. Madras Shcl 

lace Factory . 
( 2 ) M / s. Shree Gopal 
Shellace Factory . 


Rangadian 


, 


M /a ,Giri Raj Agar 
walla , 


[ No . F . S . 3821765, 72 - HI ] 


S . O . 2066. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 73F of the employees State Insurance Act , 1948 
(34 oť 1948) , and in contribution of the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour 
and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employ 
ment ) No . S . O . 5306 dated the 4th November , 1971 the 
Central Government, having regard to the location of 
the factories specified in column (4 ) of the Schedule 
hereto annexed in areas specified in column ( 3 ) of the 
said Schedule in the State of West Bengal in which 
the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the said Act 
are not in force hereby exempts the said factories from 
the payment of employers special contribution leviable 
under Chapter VA of the said Act for a further period 
of one year from the date of expiry of the period 
specified in the said notification or until the enforce 
ment of provisions of Chapter V of the said Act in 
those arens , whichever is earlier . 

SCHIDULE 


का० प्रा० 2966 : - - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 
1948 ( 19 48 का 34 ) की धारा 73च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते है ये और भारत सरकार के श्रम और पुनर्वास 
मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं० का० 
श्रा० 5306, तारीख 4 नवम्बर , 1971 के क्रम में केन्द्रीय 
सरकार इसमे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची के स्तम्भ ( 4 ) में विनिर्दिष्ट 
कारखाने की , उक्त अनुभूची के स्तम्भ ( 3 ) में बिनिदिष्ट 
पश्चिमी बंगाल राज्य के ऐसे क्षेत्रों में , जिसमें उक्त अधिनियम 
के अध्याय 4 और 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवृत्त नहीं हैं . अवस्थिति को 
ध्यान में रखते हुये, उक्त कारखाने को , उक्त अधिनियम के 
अध्याय 5 क के अधीन उद्ग्रहणीय नियोजकों के विशेष अभिदाय 
के संदाय से , उक्त अधिसूचना में विनिर्दिष्ट अवधि के अवसान 
की तारीख से एक और वर्ष की अवधि के लिये या तब तक 
के लिये जब तक उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5 के उपबन्ध उन 
क्षेत्रों में प्रवृत्त नहीं हो जाते , जो भी पहले हो , एतद्द्वारा छूट 
देती है । 


- 


- - 


si. 
No . 


Namo of 

District 


Name of arca 


Namo ofthe Factory 


( 4 ) 


I. Burdwan 


. 


Kalna 


( I ) M/ s. Bapuji 
Powerloom and In 
dugtries Cooperative 
Sociсty Limited . 


SEC . 3(ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4351 


- 


- 


- 


- 


अनुसूची 


क्रम जिले का नाम 


क्षेत्र का नाम 


कारखाने का नाम 


सं० 


( 1) 


( 2) 


( 3) 


( 4 ) 


S . O . 2967. - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 73F of the Employees State Insurance Act , 1948 
( 34 of 1948) , and in continuation of the notification of 
the Government of In ia in the Min : : try if labour, 
Employment and Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour 

4 Erronment) NO . S . O . 5324 dated the 12th Novens 
ber. 1971 the Central Government having good to the 
lo ation of the factories specified in coli ? ( 4 , of the 
Sched , le lierelo annexed in areas sper . ? il coiumn 
( 3 ) of the said Schedule in the State of West Bengal 
in which the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the 
said Act ara rot in force , hereby exeinpts the soi ; 
factories from the payment of employer s specal 
contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said 
Act for a further period of one year from the date of 
expiry of the period specified in the said notifica ! on 
or until the enforcement of provisions of Chapter V of 
the said Aut in those areas, whichever is earlier . 

SCHEDULE 


1 


बर्दवान 


कलना 


( 1 ) मैसर्स बापूजी 
पावरलम एण्ड इंडस्ट्रीज 
कोआपरेटिव सोसा 
इटी , लिमिटेड । 
( 2 ) मैसर्स कलना 
पावरलूम कोनाप 
रेटिव यूनियन लिमि 


Name of 
District 


Name of Area Name of the factory 


( 3 ) 


I . Malda 


. 


Khejuriaghat . I. Messrs . Temporary 

Crushing Screening 

and Batching Plant . 
Malda. 

Messrs . Kalindri Fac 
tory . 


गुसकारा मैसर्स गुसकारा पायल 
मेमारी मिजल एण्ड कम्पनी 

मैसर्स सी० पी० कस्टिग 

कारपोरेशन । 
2 हुगली . दसघोरा ( 1 ) मैसर्स दसघोरा 

हंडमेड पेपर सेन्टर 
3 जलापाइगुड़ी . एकटियासल ( 1) मैसर्स मूलजी 

आयरन एण्ड स्टील 
एन्डस्ट्रीज 
( 2 ) मैसर्स फेराजिनिस 


4 नादिया 


. ताहिरपुर 


मैसर्स ताहिरपुर पावर 
लूम नं० 2 कोग्राप 
रेटिव सोसाइटी लिमि 
टेड , आर० आई० 
सी० प्रोडक्सन 
सेन्टर । 


[ No. F. S . 38017/64*72- HI] 
का० प्रा० 2967 : - - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 
1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 73च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुये और भारत सरकार के श्रम , रोजगार और 
पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना 
सं० का० प्रा० 5324, तारीख 12 नवम्बर , 1971 के क्रम 
में केन्द्रीय सरकार इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची के स्तम्भ ( 4 ) में 
विनिर्दिष्ट कारखाने की , उक्त अनुसूची के स्तम्भ ( 3 ) में विनिर्दिष् : 
पश्चिमी बंगाल राज्य के ऐसे क्षेत्रों में , जिसमें उक्त अधिनियम 
के अध्याय 4 और 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवृत्त नहीं हैं , अवस्थिति को ध्यान 
में रखते हये , उक्त कारखाने को , उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5 - क 
के अधीन उद्ग्रहणीय नियोजकों के विशेष अभिदाय के संदाय से , 
उक्त अधिसूचना में विनिर्दिष्ट अवधि के अवसान की तारीख 
से एक और वर्ष की अवधि के लिये या तब तक के लिये जब तक 
उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5 के उपबन्ध उन क्षेत्रों में प्रवस 
नहीं हो जाते , जो भी पहले हो , एतद्द्वारा छूट देती है । 

अनुसूची 


5 पुरुलिया 


. पुरुलिया 


( 1 ) मैसर्स मिर्जामुल 
रामेश्वर लाल ऐल 
युमिनियम फैक्टरी । 


झालढा 


( 1 ) मैसर्स मद्रास 

शैलाक फैक्टरी । 
( 2 ) मैसर्स श्री गोपाल 
शैलाक फैक्टरी । 


क्रम जिले का नाम क्षेत्र का नाम कारखाने का नाम 
सं० 
( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) ( 4 ) 
1 मालवा . खेजुरियाघाट 1. मैसर्स टेम्पोरेरी 

क्रशिंग स्क्रीनिंग एण्ड 

बेचिंग प्लांट । 
मालडा मैसर्स कालिन्द्री फैक्टरी । 


रगाडियन 


मैसर्स गिरि राज अग्र 
वाला । 


[ सं० फा० एस० 38017( 65 )/ 72-एच० आई० ] 


[ सं० फा० एस० 38017( 64) / 72 - एच० आई० ] 


4352 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 

[ PART II 
- - - - - - - - - - ------ - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - -- - 

- : . - - - - 
S. O . 2968. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 

S . O . 2970 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 736 of the Employees State Insurance Act section 73F of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 
1948 ( 34 of 1948) , the Central Government having 134 ot 1948 ) , and in continuation of the votification of 
regard to the location of the Vishwa Bharati Spinning the Government of India in the late Ministry of Labour 
and Weaving Co -operative Society Limitz , Kavad Employment and Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour 
Village , Post Angaon , Taluka Bhiwandt District Tharia ard Employnicht) No. S . O . 1306 , dated the oth March , 
In an area ir : which the provisions of Chapters IV and 1971, the Central Government having regard to the 
V of the jald Act are in force , hereby exempts the said lecation of the: factory specifled in column ( A ) of the 
fartory from the payment of the employer s special Schedule he. eto annexed in the area specified in 
contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Colu ,17 ( 3 ) of the said Schedule in the State of Andhra 
Act for a period of one year with effect from the date Pradcsh in which the provisions of ( hapters IV und V 
of publication of this notifcation in the Oncial Gazette . of the said Act are not in force , hereby exempts the 

[ No. F . 602 ( 48 : / 70 - HI .] 

said factory from the payment of employer s special 

contribution le rlable under Chapter VA of the said 
का० प्रा० 2968 : - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , Act for a furtier perlod of ore year with effect from 

the date of expiry of the period specified in the said 
1938 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 73च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 

notifcation or until the enforcement of the provisions 
का प्रयोग करते हये , केन्द्रीय सरकार विश्व भारती स्पिनिंग एण्ड 

of Chapter V of the said Act in the sald areas, which 

ever is earlier. 
वीविंग कोआपरेटिव सोसायटी , लिमिटेड, कबाद ग्राम , डाकघर 

SCHEDULE 
अनगाव , तालक भिवान्डी , जिला थाना की , ऐसे क्षेत्रों में , जिसमें 
उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 4 से 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवृत्त हैं , अव 

Name of Name of Area Namo of tho factory . 
स्थिति को ध्यान में रखते हये , उक्त कारखाने को , उक्त अधिनियम 

District 
के अध्याय 5क के अधीन उदग्रहणीय नियोजकों के विशेष अभि 

(I ) ( 2) 

(3 ) 

( 4 ) 
चाय के संदाय से , इस अधिसूचना के शासकीय राजपत्र 
में प्रकाशन की तारीख से एक वर्ष की अवधि के लिये एतद्द्वारा 

_ r. Warangal . Brahmanapally Messrs Sri Venkatas 

wara Tile Works , 
छट देती है । 
[ सं० फा० 602 ( 48 )/ 70 - एच० आई० ] 

[ No. F. S. 38017 ( 37)/ 72- HI] 

का० प्रा० 2970 : - - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 
S. 0 . 2969 .-- -In exercise of the powers conferred by 1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 73च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
section 73F of the Employees State Insurance Act , 1949 
( 34 of 1948 ), and in continuation of the notification of का प्रयोग करते हुये और भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व श्रम , रोजगार 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour 
and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Emp 

और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना 
loyment) No . S . O . 3689 , dated the 3rd September , 1971 , 

सं० का० प्रा० 1306 तारीख 6 मार्च, 1971 के क्रम में 
the Central Government havine regard to the location 
of the factories , known as ( 1 ) Jamalpur Drainage केन्द्रीय सरकार इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची के स्तम्भ ( 4 ) में 
Pumping Station and ( 2 ) New Suburban Drainage 
Pumping Station belonging to the Ahmedabad Muni विनिर्दिष्ट कारखानों की उक्त अन् सूची के स्पश्भ ( 3 ) में विनिर्दिष्ट 
cipal Corporation , Ahmedabad , in an area in which 

आंध्र प्रदेश राज्य के ऐसे क्षेत्रों में , जिसमें उक्त अधिनियम के 
the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the said Act 
are in force , hereby exempts the said factories from अध्याय 4 और 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवृत्त नहीं हैं , अवस्थिति को 
the payment of the cmployer s special contribution 
leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act for a ध्यान में रखते हुए उक्त कारखाने को उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 
further period of one year with cffect from the 1st 
June, 1972 upt , and inclusive of the 31st May , 1973. 

5 - 4 के अधीन उदग्रहणीय नियोजक के विशेष अभिदाय के 
[ No. F . S. 38017 / 28 / 72 -1 !T. ] संघाय से उक्त अधिसूचना में विनिर्दिष्ट अवधि की समाप्ति की 
का० प्रा० 2969 : -कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , तारीख मे एक वर्ष और की अवधि के लिये या तब तक के लिए 
1948 ( 1948 का 3.1 ) को धाग 73च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियो जब तक कि उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5 के उपबन्ध उन क्षत्रों 
का प्रयोग करते हुये और भारत सरकार के श्रम , और पुनर्वास में प्रवत्त नहीं हो जाते , जो भी पहले हो , एतद्द्वारा छुट देती 
मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना संख्या 
का० प्रा० 3689 , तारीख 3 सितम्बर , 1971 के क्रम में केन्द्रीय 
मरकार अहमदाबाद म्युनिसिपल कारपोरेशन अहमदाबाद , के 
( 1 ) जमालपुर ड्रेनेज पम्पिग स्टेशन , और ( 2 ) न्यू मबर्बन ड्रेनेज 
पम्पिग स्टेशन, नामक कारखानों को एसे क्षेत्रों में , जिसमें उक्त 

म जिले का नाम क्षेत्र का नाम कारखाने का नाम 
अधिनियम के अध्याय 4 और 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवृत्त हैं , अवस्थिति 
को ध्यान में रखते हुए, उक्त कारखानों को उक्त अधिनियम के 
अध्याय 5क के अधीन उदग्रहणीय नियोजक के विशेष अभिदाय 
के संदाय से 1 जून , 1972 में 31 मई, 1973 तक , जिसमें 
घह तारीख भी सम्मिलित है एक वर्ष की और अवधि के लिये 

1. बारंगल . वृद्मानापली मैमर्स श्री वेंकटेस्वरा 
एतद्द्वारा छूट देती है । 

टाइल वर्क्स । 
[ सं० फा० एम० 38017( 28) / 72 - घ० प्राई०] 

[ सं० फा० एस० 38017 ( 37)/ 72 -एच ० आई० ] 


अनुसूची 


(1 ) 


( 2) 


( 3) 


( 4 ) 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - - - 


SEC. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1072 ; ASVINA 29 , 1894 

4353 
- - - - - - - - - - - -. - .- - . 

- - - - . - - -- - - - 
CORRIGENDUM 

S . O . 2973 . In exercise of the powers conferred by 

section 27 of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 ( 11 of 
New Delhi, the 24th July 1972 

1948 ) , the Central Government hereby adds to Part I 
S . O . 291, - In the notification of the Government of 

of the Schedule to that Act the employment in Ochre 
India in the late Ministry of Labour Employment and 

Mines , notice of its intention to do so having already 
Rehabilition ( Department of Labour and Employ 

been given hy the notification of Government of India 
Hellt ) No. S . O . 1306 dated the 6th March, 1971 Publish 

in the Ministry of Labour and Rehabilitation ( Depart 
ed in the Gazette of India, Part II, section 3 , sub-sec . 

ment. of Labour and Employment ) No . So003410, dated 
tion ( 11 ) dated the 27th March, 1971 , at page 1558 , in 

the 1st September , 1971 , as required by the sald sec 
line 5 , for " are in force read. " are not in force ". 

tion. 
[ No . F. S .93917( 371 / 72 - HI. 

[ No. LWI . 1 - 2 ( 37 ) / 67- WE( MW) . ] 

HANS RAJ CHHABRA, Under Secy . 
DALJIT SINGII. Under Secy . 
शुद्धि पत्र 

का० प्रा० 2973 -न्यूनतम मजदूरी अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 
नई दिल्ली, 24 जुलाई, 1972 

का 11 ) की धारा 27 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए 
केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा उक्त अधिनियम की अनसूची के भाग 1 

में पाकरेव खानों के नियोजन को जोड़ती है ; केन्द्रीय सरकार के 
का० प्रा० 2971 . - - भारत के राजपन्न , भाग 2, खण्ड 3 , 

ऐसा करने के प्राशय की सूचना उक्त धारा वारा यथाप्रपेक्षित 
उपखण्ड ( ii ) , तारीख 27 मार्च, 1971 में प्रकाशित भारत 
सरकार के भूतपूर्व श्रम , रोजगार और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम 

भारत सरकार के श्रम और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार 
और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं० का० प्रा० 306, 

विभाग ) की अधि सूचना सं० का० प्रा० 3410, तारीख 1 सितम्बर , 
तारीख 6 मार्च, 1971, के पृष्ठ 1558 पर, चौथी पक्ति में 

1971 द्वारा पहले ही दी जा चुकी है । 
" प्रवृत्त है " के स्थान पर "प्रवृत्त नहीं है " पढ़ें । 

[सं० एल० डब्ल्यू०आई०1- 2( 37 )/ 67डब्ल्यू ०ई ०( एम० डब्ल्यू०)] 

हंसराज छाबड़ा अवर सचिव । 


__ [ मं० फा० एम० 38017( 37 )/ 72 -7.च० आई० ] 


दलजीत सिंह , अवर सचिव । 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

___ New Delhi , the 1st July 1972 
S . O . 2972 , — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 27 of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 (11 of 
1948 ) , the Central Government hereby adds to Part 
I of the Schedule to that Act the cmployment in Ste 
atite Mines ( including the mines producing Seaps 
tone and Tale) covered under the Mines Act , 1952 
( 35 of 1952) , notice of its intention to do so having 
already been given by the notification of Government 
of India in thc Ministry of Labour and Rehabilitation 
( Department of Labour and Employment ) No. S. O . 
3899, dated the 21st September , 1971 . as required by 
the said section , 


(Department of Labour and Employment). 

New Delhi, the 6th July 1972 
s . o . 2974. ---.In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 27 of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 ( 11 of 1948) , 
the Central Government hereby adds to Part I of the 
Schedule to that Act the emp oyment in Asbestos Mines 
notice of its intention to do so having already been 
given by the notification of Government of India in 
the Minis ry of Labour , Employment and Rehabilita 
tion ( Department of Labour and Employment ) No . 
S. O . 21 , dated the 27th November, 1971, as required 
by the said section. 

[ No. LWI-I- 2 (15 ) / 67 - WE ( MW) ] 


( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 
नई दिल्ली, 6 जुलाई, 1972 


( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली, 1 जुलाई, 1972 
का० प्रा० 2972 - न्यनतम मजदूरी अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 
का 11 ) की धारा 27 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए 
केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा स्टिएटाइट खानों में नियोजन (जिसके 
अन्तर्गत सेलखड़ी और टल्क का उत्पादन करने वाली खाने भी हैं ) 
जो खान अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 35 ) के अन्तर्गत 
प्राता है , को इस अधिनियम की अनुसूची के भाग I में जोड़ती है 
जिसके करने के प्राशय की सूचना भारत सरकार के श्रम और 
पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना 
सं० का ० प्रा० 3899, तारीख 21 सितम्बर, 1971 द्वारा पहले 
ही दी जा चुकी है, जैसा कि उक्त धारा द्वारा अपेक्षित है । 


का० प्रा० 2974. - --न्यूनतम मजदूरी अधिनियम , 1948 
( 1948 का 11) की धारा 27 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा , उक्त अधिनियम की अनुसूची 
के भाग I में , एस्बेस्टास खानों में नियोजन को जोड़ती है उसके 
ऐसा करने के प्राशय की सूचना भारत सरकार, श्रम , रोजगार 
और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना 
सं० 21 , तारीख 27 नवम्बर, 1971 द्वारा , उस धारा द्वारा 
यथाप्रपेक्षित , पहले ही दी जा चुकी है । 
[ एल० डब्ल्यू० आई० 1 -2( 15)/ 67-डब्ल्यू ० ई० ( एम० डब्ल्यू०) ] 


New Delhi, the 15th July 1972 
S . O . 2975 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub- section (2)" of section 28 of the Minimum Wages 


[ एल० उठल्यू ० आई० - 1 / 2 ( 41 ) / 67 -डठल्यू ० ई० ( एम ० डब्ल्यू०) ] 


- 


- - - 


: - 


- - 


- 


4354 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 

[PART 11 – 
- - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - 

- - -- - -- - - -- - - - 
Act , 1948 ( 11 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby 

( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 
directs that for a period of five years from the date of 
publication of this notification , in the Official Gazette , 

नई दिल्ली, 3 जुलाई 1972 
the provisions of sections 12, 13, 14 and 18 of the said 
Act shall not apply to railway servants who are on 
time scales of pay approved by the Central Government 

का० प्रा० 2976. डाक कर्मकार ( नियोजन का विनियमन ) 
and governed by the provisions of Chapter VIA of the अधिनियम 1948 ( 1948 का 9 ) की धारा 5-क की उपधाराओं 
Indian Railways Act , 1890 ( 9 of 1890 ) , and the Indian 
Railways Establishment Code and who are employed ( 3) और ( 4) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय 
in any scheduled employment on Railways. 

सरकार एतदद्वारा श्री गोविन्द एच० सेठ को श्री एल०एम० नदकरनी 
[ No . S. 32014 / 3 / 71 - WE ( MW) . ] 

के स्थान पर बम्बई डाक श्रम दोर्ड के सदस्य के रूप में नियुक्त करती 
HANS RAJ CHHABRA , Dy. Seçy. 

है और भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व श्रम , रोजगार और पुनर्वास 
नई दिल्ली , 15 जुनाई, 1972 

मन्त्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना संख्या 
का० प्रा० 2975 . - - न्यूनतम मजदूरी अधिनियम , 1948 

का० प्रा० 582 तारीख 9 फरवरी , 1967 में और आगे निम्न 
( 1948 का 11 ) की धारा 26 को उपधारा 2 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 

लिखित संशोधन करती है, अर्थात् : - -- 
का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकर पतद्वारा निदेश देती है , 

उक्त अधिसूचना में , - 
कि इस अधिसूचना के राजपत्र में प्रकाशन की तारीख से 5 वर्ष 

( 1 ) "केन्द्रीय सरकार का प्रतिनिधित्व करने वाले 
की अवधि के लिए उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 12, 13, 14 

सदस्य " शीर्षक के अन्तर्गत , मद्द ( 1 ) के लिए 
और 18 के उपबन्ध उन रेल कर्मचारियों पर लागू नहीं होंगे 

निम्नलिखित मदद को प्रतिस्थापित किया जाएगा , 
जो केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा अनुमोदित वेतन के काल वेतन मान पर 

अर्थात् : 
हैं और भारतीय रेल अधिनियम , 1890 ( 1890 का 9 ) 
के अध्याय 6क के उपबन्धों, और भारतीय रेल स्थापन संहिता 

"( 1 ) श्री गोविन्द एच० सेठ, बम्बई, पोत के न्यासी 
द्वारा शासित हैं तथा जो रेलवे में किसी अनसूचित नियोजन में नियो 

बोर्ड के अध्यक्ष . . . . . . . अध्यक्ष । " 
जित हैं । 

( 2) पैरा 2 के लिए, निम्नलिखित पैरा प्रतिस्थापित 

किया जाएगा , अर्थात् :- . 
[सं० एस०-32014( 3)/ 71-डब्ल्यू ० ई० ( एम० डब्ल्यू ०] 

"( 2 ) केन्द्रीय सरकार श्री गोविन्द एच० सेठ को । 
हंस राज छाबड़ा, 

एतद्वारा उक्त बोर्ड के अध्यक्ष के रूप में नामित करती है । " 
उप सचिव , भारत सरकार । 

2. यह अधिसूचना 21 मार्च, 1972 से लागू हुई मानी 

जाएगी । 
(Department of Labour and Employment) 

[ सं० 51/ 5/ 68-फैक० II /पी० और डो०] 
New Delhi , the 3rd July 1972 

New Delhi, the 17th July 1972 
S . O . 2976. ---In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub -sections ( 33 ) and ( 4 ) of section 5A of the Dock 

S . O . 2977 , -- In exercise of the powers conferred 
Workers ( Regulation of Employment) Act, 1948 ( 9 of 

by sub-section ( 1 ) of section 8 of the Dock Workers 
1948 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri 

( Regulation of Employment) Act, 1948 ( 9 of 1948 ) , and 
Govind H . Seth , as a member of the Bombay Dock 

in continuation of the notification of the Government 
Labour Board vice Shri L . M , Nadkarni and makes the 

of India in the late Ministry of Labour and Employ 
following further amendments in the notification of 

ment No. 528 / 199 / 65- Fac . ( S . O . 517) , dated the 10th 
the Government of India in the late Ministry of Labour, 

February , 1966, the Central Government hereby 
Employment and Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour 

appoints the following Deputy Chairmen of Dock 
and Employment ) No. S . O . 582, dated the 9th February , 

Labour Boards to be Inspectors in addition to the 
1867 , namely : - - 

Labour Enforcement officers ( Central) and Conciliation 

Officers ( Central ) ( now designated as Assistance La 
In the said notification. 

bour Commissioners ) at the Ports mentioned against 
( 1 ) under the heading " Members representing the them for the purposes of the said Act, namely : - - 

Central Government ", for item ( 1 ) , the follow 
ing item shall be substituted , namely :---- 
" ( 1 ) Shri Govind H . Seth, Chairman of the I . Deputy Chairman, Bombay . Bombay Port. 
Board of Trustees of the Port of Bombay 

2 . Deputy Chairman, Calcutta. . 
Chairman . " 

Calcutta Port, 

3 . Deputy Chairman ,Malras. Madras Port . 
( 2 ) for paragraph 2 , the following paragraph shall 
be substituted , namely : 

4. Deputy Chairman , Cochin. . . Cochin Port . 
" ( 2 ) The Central Government hereby nominates 

5 . Diputy Chairman , Visakhapatnam . Vigukhapatnam Port. 
Shri Govind H , Seth us Chairman of the said 
Board. " 

6. Deputy Chairman, Mormugao . Mormugao Port. 
2 . This notification shall be deemed to have come 7 . Deputy Chairman Kandla. . . Kandla Port. 
into force on the 21st March , 1972. 
[ No. 51 / 5 / 68- Fac. II / P & D .] 

[ No . 5 -18013/ I/ 72- P & D ] 


Sc. 3 ( i) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29 , 1894 

4355 
- -- - - - - - - - - - - 
नई दिल्ली , 17 जुलाई 1972 

2 . Any objections or suggestions which may be re 
का 0 प्रा 02977-- डाक कर्मकार ( नियोजन का विनियमन ) अधिनियम 

ceived from any person with respect to the said Draft 

Scheme on or before the date so extended will be con 
1948 ( 1918 का 9 ) की धारा 6 की उपधारा (j ) द्वारा प्रदत्त 

sidered by the Central Government. 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत मरकार के भूतपूर्व श्रम 
और रोजगार मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना स0 528/ 199/ 65 

Draft Scheme 
( का0 प्रा0 517 ) तारीख 10 फरवरी , 1966 के क्रम में , 
केन्द्रीय सरकार , डाक श्रमिक बोर्ड के निम्नलिखित उपाध्यक्षों को , 1. Thls Scheme may be called the Kandla Dock Wor 
अर्थात् : --- 

kers ( Regulation of Employment ) Amendment Scheme , 
1972. 


1. उपाध्यक्ष , बम्बई - - बम्बई पत्तन 
2 . उपाध्यक्ष , कलकत्ता - -कलकत्ता पत्तन 


2. In the Kandla Dock Workers (Regulation of Emp 
loyment ) Scheme, 1969 , in item (c ) of sub -clause (1 ) 
of clause 16, for the words " and in case " the words 
" and in no case " shall be substituted . 


3. उपाध्यक्ष , मद्रास - मद्रास पत्तन 


[ No. 57/ 4 / 70-P & D .] 


4 . उपाध्यक्ष , कोचीन ---- कोचीन पतन 
5. उपाध्यक्ष , विशाखापटनम -- विशाखापटनम पत्तन 
6 . उपाध्यक्ष , मरमुगाव - - मरमुगाव पत्तन 
7. उपाध्यक्ष , कांडला - - कांडला पत्तन 


उनके सामने वणित पत्तनों पर उक्त अधिनियम के प्रयोजन के 
लिए एतद्द्वारा श्रम प्रवर्तन अधिकारी ( केन्द्रीय ) और सुलह अधिकार 
( केन्द्रीय ) (जिन्हें अब सहायक श्रम आयुक्त पदनामित किया गया 
है ) के अतिरिक्त निरीक्षक नियुक्त करती है । 


एस० प्रो० 2978 . ---डाक कर्मकार 
( नियोजन का विनियमन ) अधिनियम, 1948 ( 1948 का 9) 
की धारा 4 की उपधारा ( 1) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा कांडला डाक कर्म 
कार ( नियोजन का विनियमन ) सशोधन स्कीम , 1970 ( इससे 
उपाबद्ध ) के प्रारूप पर जो भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व श्रम, रोजगार 

और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना 
सं० का ० प्रा० 1319 तारीख, 17 मार्च, 1971 के साथ प्रकाशित 
हुआ है, आक्षेप या सुझाव आमन्त्रित करने के प्रयोजन के लिए विनि 
दिष्ट तारीख को 15 अप्रैल , 1971 से बढ़ कर इस अधिसूचना के 
प्रकाशन की तारीख से एक मास की तारीख करती है । 


[ सं० एम० 18013/1/ 72 पी० एण्ड डी०] 


2. उक्त प्रारूप के बारे में किसी भी व्यक्ति से इस प्रकार 
बढ़ाई गई तारीख को या उससे पूर्व प्राप्त होने वाले प्राक्षेपों या सुझावों 


पर केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा विचार किया जाएगा । 


S . 0 . 2978. -- In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub -section ( 1 ) of section 4 of the Dock Workers ( Re 
gulatiori of Employment) Act, 1948 ( 9 of 1948 ) , the 
CentralGovernment hereby extends the date specified 
for the purpose of inviting objectioons or suggestios 
on the draft of the Kandla Dock Workers (Re 
gulation of Employment ) Amendment Scheme , 
1970 ( annexed hereto ), published with the noti 
fication of the Government of India in the 
late Ministry of Labour, Employment and 
Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour and Emp 
loyment) No. S. 0 , 1319 , dated the 17th March, 1971 
from the 15th April, 1971 to a date one month from 
the date of publication of this notification . 


प्रारूप स्कीम 


1. इस स्कीम का नाम कांडला डाक कर्मकार ( नियोजन का 


विनियमन ) संशोधन स्कीम , 1972 होगा । 


4356 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29 , 1894 


PART II ..... 


2. कांडला डाक कर्मकार (नियोजन का विनियमन ) स्कीम , 
1969 में खण्ड 16 के उपखण्ड ( 1 ) की मद (ग ) के अंग्रेजी पाठ 
में " खण्ड इन केस " शब्दों के स्थान पर " खण्ड इन नो केम " शब्द 
प्रतिस्थापित किए जाएगे । 


(2) Whether the action of the Commissioners for the 

Port of Calcutta in declaring Shri S . P. Bhattar 
charjee senior to Shri P . K . Bhattacharjee Is 
justified ? If not, what should be their inter 
seniority ? 


[ No. L - 32012 / 1 / 72- P & D .] 


[ स० 57 ( 4 ) / 70 - पी० एण्ड डी० ] 


श्रादश 
नई दिल्ली, 3 जुलाई, 1972 


ORDERS 


का० प्रा० 2979 -- यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है 
कि इस से उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में कलकत्ता 
पत्तन प्रायुक्त , कलकत्ता से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्म 
कारों के बीच एक प्रौद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 


New Delhi, the 3rd July 1972 


. और यतः, केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन 
के लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय समझती है ; 


S. O . 2979. - Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the management of the Calcutta 
Port Commissioners, Calcutta and their Workmen in 
respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed%3B 


And , whereas, the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the sald dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause (d ) of sub -section (1) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudica 
tion to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
Calcutta , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 


प्रतः, अब , प्रोद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 
का 14 ) की धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा 
उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7 -क के अधीन गठित 
केन्द्रीय सरकार औद्योगिक अधिकरण कलकत्ता को न्यायनिर्णयन 
के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 

अनुसूची 


( 1 ) मया प्रायुक्त के सचिव-विभाग के अधीन सुरक्षा वि 
भाग के उच्च श्रेणी लिपिक ( चयन श्रेणी ) के पद पर श्री पी० 
के . भट्टाचार्य और एस० पी० भट्टाचार्य को , उस पद पर 
समायोजन के लिए उनकी उपयुक्तता के अवधारण के लिए , छः 
महीनों तक परीक्षण पर रखने की कलकत्ता के पत्तन प्रायुक्त 
की कार्यवाई न्यायोचित थी ? यदि नहीं , तो उपयुक्तता के 
निर्णय के लिए सही प्रक्रिया क्या होनी जाहिए ? 


EDULE 


(1) Whether the action of the Commissſoners for 

the Port of Calcutta in putting Shri P . K . 
Bhattacharjee and Shri S . P. Bhattacharjee on 
trial for six months in the post of Upper Divi 
sion Clerk (Selection Grade) in the Security 
Section under the Secretary s Department of 
the Commissioners for determining their guit 
ability for adjustment against the post was 
justified ? If not, what should be the correct 
procedure for judging suitability ? 


( 2 ) क्या एस०पी० भट्टाचार्य को श्री पी० के० भट्टाचार्य 
जी से वरिष्ठ घोषित करने के कलकत्ता के पत्तन प्रायुक्न की 
कार्रवाई न्यायोचित है ? यदि नहीं तो उनकी आपस में वरिष्ठता 
क्या होनी चाहिए ? 


[ सं० एल० 32012/ 1/ 72 - पीडी० 


]ए 


SEC. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29 . 1894 


4357 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


अधिकारी , राष्ट्रीय प्रधिकरण , कलकत्ता के समक्ष लम्बित 


New Delhi , the 12th July 1972 
S . O . 2980. — Whereas the industrial dispute specified 
in the Schedule annexed is pending before Shri B . N . 
Banerjee, Presidink Officer, National Tribunal , Calcutta ; 

And whereas , the services of Shri B. N . Banerjee, 
the Presiding Officer of the said National Tribunal have 
ceased to be available ; 


Now, therefore, .in exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 7B , and sub - section ( 1 ) of section 33B of 
the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 (14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby constitutes a National Tri 
bunal with Shri B . N . Bagchi as Presiding Officer, with 
headquarters at Calcutta and withdraws the proceed 
ings in relation to the said dispute from Shri B , N , 
Banerjee and transfers the same to Shri B . N . Bagchi, 
Presiding Omcer, National Tribunal. Calcutta for the 
disposal of the said proceedings with the directions that 
the said National Tribunal shall proceed with the pro 
ceedings from the stage at which they are transferred 
to it and dispose of the same according to law . 


और यतः उक्त राष्ट्रीय अधिकरण के पीठासीन अधिकारी 
श्री बी० एन० बनर्जी की सेवाएं अब उपलभ्य नहीं रहीं । 
। अतः, अब, प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 
का 14 ) की धारा 7-क और धारा 33 ( ख ) की उपधारा ( 1 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद् 
द्वारा, एक राष्ट्रीय अधिकरण गठित करती है , जिसके पीठासीन 
अधिकारी श्री एम० एन० बागचो होंगे जिनका मुख्यालय कलकत्ता 
होगा और श्री बी०एन० बनर्जी मे उक्त विवाद से सम्बद्ध कार्यवाहियों 
को वापिस लेती है और उक्त कार्यवाहियों को निपटाने के लिए 
श्री एम . एन . बागची पीठासीन अधिकारी, राष्ट्रीय अधिकरण , 
कलकत्ता को इस निर्देश के साथ अन्तरित करती है कि उक्त 
राष्ट्रीय अधिकरण और प्रागे उसी प्रफम से कार्यवाही करेगा 
जिम पर वे उसे अन्तरित की गई हैं और विधि के अनुसार उन्हें 
निपटाएगा ; 


HEDULE 


अनुसूची 


Parties to the Dispute. No. & date of S . 0 . No. of 

referance to Gazette and 
A National 

date of 
Tribunal. publication. 
- - - - - - . . - - 

- ~ - ~ 
Bargemon represented by - N ), 72/ 10 / 70 - Extraordinary 

P & D dated 25th Gazetre S . O . 
( I ) Calcutta Port Shramic August 1970 No. 2814 , dt . 
Union, Calcutta- 23. . 

dutod tho 25th 

August, 1970 . 
(2 ) Calcutta Port and Dock 

Work r. , Union , Calcutta 

- 23. 
( 3 ) Calcutta Dock Wokors , 

Union, Calcutta - 23 . 
( 4 ) Wzst Bngal Dock Mazdoor 

Union , Calcutta - 23 . 
(5 ) Calcittu Boatman s Union , 

Calcutta -23. 


विवाद के पक्षकार 


राष्ट्रीय अधि - राजपत्र की 
करण को का० प्रा० 
भेजे गये नि - सं० पौर प्र 
देश को सं० काशन की 
पोर तारीख तारीख 


and 


the owners of bargos ligh 
ters and boats " ropresented 

by 
( 1 ) The Bengal River Trans 

port Association , Cal 

cutta- I . 
( 2 ) Tha Calcutta River Trans 

port Association, Calcutta 


. 


( 3 ) Messrs Fraser and Com 
pany , Calcutta- I . 


बजरे वाले जिनका प्रतिनिधित्व : - सं० 72/ 10/ प्रसाधारण 
( 1 ) क नकला पोर्ट श्रमिक पुनि - 70-नो एंड राजपत्र का० 
यन कलकला-23 

डो० तारोज प्रा० मं० 2814 
( 2 ) ककस्ता पोर्ट एण्ड डाक 

वर्कर्स यूनियन , फलकस्ता-23 25 अगस्त , 
( 3 ) कलकत्ता डाक वर्कर्स यूनि - 1970 , तारीख 25 
यन , कलकत्ता - 23 

अगस्त , 
( 4 ) पश्चिमी बंगाल डाक -मज 

1970. 
दूर यूनियन, कलकत्ता- 23 
( 5 ) कलकल्ला बोटमेन यूनियन 
कलकता- 23 ने किया है । 
और 


[ No. 72 / 10/ 70-P & D -Vol.III .] 

O . P . TALWAR , Dy. Secy. 


नई दिल्ली, 12 जुलाई, 1972 


का० प्रा० 298 9. - ~ पतः इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में 
विनिदिष्ट औद्योगिक विवाद श्री बी० एन० बनर्जी, पीठासीन 


4358 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II 


- - - - . 


विवाद के पक्षाकर 


राष्ट्रोम अधि - राजपन्न की 
करण को का० सा० 
भेजे गए नि - सं० र प्र 
देश की सं० काशत की 
और तारीख तारीख 


बजरों, मालवोटों और नौकाओं 

के स्वामी जिनका प्रतिनिधित्व :---- 
( 1 ) बंगाल रिवर ट्रांस्पोर्ट मंगम , 

कलकत्ता - 1 
( 2 ) कलकत्ता रिवर ट्रांस्पोर्ट संगम , 

कलकत्ता - 1 , 
( 3 ) मैमर्स फ्रेसर एण्ड कम्पनी , । 
कलकत्ता - 1 
ने किया है । 


1580 तारीख 17 अप्रैल , 1970 को अधिकृत करते हुए , केन्द्रीय 
सरकार एतद् द्वारा मोल्डिग सैंड की खुदाई में लगी सभी खानों को 
उक्त अधिनियम , के सभी उपबंधों से , सिबाय धारा 7 , 8, 9, 44, 
45, 46 तथा उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 9 के उपबन्धों की निम्न 
लिखित शर्तो के अध्यधीन मुक्त करती है , अर्थात् : 
( i) उत्खनन के उच्चतम से निम्नतर बिन्दु तक कहीं 

भी गहराई 1 . 5 मीटर से अधिक न हो ; 
(ii ) किसी एक दिन नियोजित व्यक्तियों की संख्या 20 से 

अधिक न हो ;. 
( iii) उत्पनन के लिए विस्फोटक प्रयुक्त न किए गए हों , 

और 
( iv ) खुदाई उपस्थित धरातल से नीचे तक न हो । 


[ सं० एम- 29014/ 10/ 72-एम० आई० ] 

बी० के० सासैना, 
अवर सचिव , भारत सरकार । 


[ सं० 72/ 10/ 70-पी० एंड डी०-जिल्द III ] 

__ प्रो० पी० तलवाड़, 
उप मचिव , भारत सरकार । 


( Department of Labour and Employment 

New Delhi, the 19th July 1972 


(Department of Labour and Employment 


S . 0 . 2982. - -In pursuance of sub-section ( 4 ) of sec 
tion 3 of the Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund Act, 
1946 ( 22 of 1946, the Central Government hereby pub 
Jishes the following report of the activities financed 
from the Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund during the 
year ending the 31st March. 1970 , together with a 
statement of accounts for that year and an estimate 
of receipts and expenditure of the said Fund for the 
year 1970 - 71. 


New Delhi , the 10th July 1972 
S . O . 2981 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub -section ( 1 ) of section 83 of the Mines Act , 1952 ( 35 
of 1952) , and in supersession of the notifications of the 
Government of India in the late Ministry of Labour 
Employment and Rehabilitation ( Department of 
Labour and Employment ) No . S . O . 4301, dated the 17th 
October , 1969 and No, S . O . 1580 , dated the 17th April, 
1970, the Central Government hereby exempts all the 
mines working moulding sand from all the provisions 
of the said Act except those contained in sections 7 , 8 , 
9 , 44 , 45 , 46 and the provisions of Chapter IX of the 
said Act, subject to the following conditions, namely : 
( i ) the depth of the excavation measured from its 

highest to its lowest point nowhere exceeds 1. 5 

metres ; 
( ii ) the number of persons employed on any one 

day does not exceed 20 ; 
(ili) explosives are not used in connection with 

the excavation ; and 
(iv ) the workings do not extend below the super 
jacent ground . 

[ No. S -29014 / 10 / 72 - MI. ] 
B . K . SAKSENA , Under Secy . 


PART I 
1. General . - The Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund 
has been constituted under the Mica Mines Labour 
Welfare Fund Act , 1948 ( 22 of 1946 ) for the financing 
of activities to promote the welfare of labour employ 
ed in the mica mining industry . Some of the major 
Activities enumerated for this purpose Are sanitation 
medical facilities , housing. water supply, education, 
general improvement in the standard of living and 
recreational facilities . 


2 . The Act provides for the levy as a cess of a duty 
of customs on all mica exported from the territorieg 
to which the Act exteri s at a rate not exceeding 61 
mer cent od malorem . The rate fixed for the present, 
howerrer , is 21 ner cent ad. raTorem. The collections 
are alloented for expenditure on welfare measter 
Among the various mica .producing areas in propor 
tion to their average production . 


( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली , 10 जुलाई 1972 
का० श्रा० 298 1 . खान अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 35 ) 
की धारा 83 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हए और भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व श्रम , रोजगार और 
पूनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं० 

201 - - 17 अक्टबर , 1969 और सं० का० प्रा० 


3 . To Advice the Central Government on matters 
connected with the administration of the Act the 
Central Government has constituted three Advisory 
Committees ( representing the Government the owners 
of mira minns and the workmen emploved in the mice 
mining industry ) in inn inch for thon States of 
Andhrn Penilesh Pihar pl Postnathon , To co -ordinnte 
the Antiviting of the rerrignal Funds thore prog for 
mare y Co -ordinating Committee consisting pp117 
cials only . In order to give representation to the 


SEC. 3( ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4359 


from T . B . by way of aid of Rs. 50. 00 per month as 
subsistence allowance and Rs. 50 . 00 per month for 
special diet for six months continued to be provided . 
The Scheme of domiciliary treatment of T . B . patients 
among mica miners was continued in Rajasthan . 


mica mine workers and mica mine employers, the 
Committee was replaced on the 5th October, 1967 by 
a Tripartite Central Advisory Board under the Chair 
manship of the Joint Secretary in the Ministry . The 
first meeting of the Board was held at Hyderabad cn 
the 28th December , 1967. On the expiry of the life 
of the Board which was for a period of one year, the 
Board was reconstituted on the 26th November, 1968 
and its tenure was fixed for three years . At the 
second meeting of the Board held on the 14th Decem 
ber 1968 at Bhilwara (Rajasthan ) , the Board recom 
mended that each State Advisory Committee should 
have the Labour Minister of the State as its Chair 
man . The recommendation was accepted by the Cen 
tral Government and the Labour Ministers of the 
States have been made Chairmen of the State Advi 
sory Committees . 


4 . The following welfare measures have been under 
taken in the States of Bihar , Andhra Pradesh and 
Rajasthan : 
(i) Medical facilities 

(a ) Hospitals . -- A 100 -bed Central Hospital at Karma 
( Bihar ) , a 30 -bed Regional Hospital at Tisri ( Bihari, 
a 14 - bed Hospital at Kalichedu ( Andhra Pradesh ) 
and a 30 -bed Central Hospital at Gangapur (Rajasthan ) 
continued to be maintained from the resources of the 
Fund . The dispensary at Talupur ( Andhra Pradesh ) 
was converted into a 10 - bed hospital. A 50 - bed T . B . 
Hospital at Karma ( Bihar ) and a 16 -bed T . B . Ward 
attached to the hospital at Kalichedu and a 30 -bed 
T . B . Clinic at Tisri (Bihan ) also continued to func 
tion . 

(b ) Other medical facilities , Other medical institu 
tions set up from the finances of the Fund comprised 
Static Dispensaries, Ayurvedic Dispensaries , · Mobile 
Medical Units, Maternity and Child Welfare Control , 


( ii) Educational facilities.- Nine Multipurpose Insti 
tutes , each with an Adult Education Centre and a 
Women s Welfare Section , provided educational and 
recreational facilities to workers , training in handi 
crafts like sewing etc., to the female workers and 
dependents of miners in Bihar . In two women s Centres 
in Andhra Pradesh and seven such Centres in Rajas 
than , gir s and women workers were taught tailor 
Ing , stitching, etc . Educational facilities for miners 
children were being provided in 6 Elementary 
Schools, 2 High Schools and 2 Adult Literacy Centres 
in Andhra Pradesh , 4 Primary Schools , 4 Middle 
Schools , and 7 Feeder Centres in Bihar, 2 Primary 
Schools , 1 Middle School, 24 Adult Education Centres 
and 5 Feeder Centres in Rajasthan . Besides these , 
one evening Mining School was functioning in Andhra 
Pradesh . It imparted training facilities to miners in 
mining trades. 

In the schools in Andhra Pradesh , children of mica 
miners were provided with facilities like free mid - day 
meals , milk , books, slates and clothing . Milk , tiffin 
books, slates , clothing, . . 

miners 
children attending tha 

- , . . Com 
munity centres and Schools in Bihar. The children 
attending the Multipurpose Institutes in Bihar were 
siven bath daily for which oil and soap were provided 
by the Institutes . Mid -day meals, books. slates and 
other stationery articles were supnlied to the school 
going children of mica miners in Rajasthan . 


Frur boarding houses in Bihar and two in Andhra 
Pradesh continued to be run for the children of mica 
miners studving in schools and colleges . A hostel set 
up at Gangapur (Rajasthan ) for whildren of mira 
miners studying in Higher Secondary Schools con 
tinued to function . 


tions during the year is as under : - 


Medical Institutions 


Anthra 
Pradesh 


Bilar 


Blizz+ 421 


Scholarshins were granted to the children of mica 
minors studving in schnols and colleges in Bihar, 


Ayurvelic Dispensaries. . 
Static Dispensaries . . 
Mobile Medical Units. 
Maternity and Child Welfare ! 

$ mall Comm inity Cantris. 


were granted for both general and technical education 
Mica Mineral children studying in schools were also 
rranted re - imbursement of tuition fee in Bihar . A 
anhnnls Health Prooramme was introduced in the two 
Higher Serondary Schools and six Elamentary Schools 
under the Fund organisation in Andhra Pradesh , 


· Six beds in Government Welfare Fund T . B . and 
Chest Diseases Hospital, Nellore , were reserved for 
the exclusive use of mica miners and their families . 
Arrangements were continued for the treatment at 
the Tetulmari Leprosy Hospital of mica miners of 
Bihar who suffer from Leprosy . An X - ray plant 
was installed during the year at the Government 
Hospital, Gudur, with financial assistance from the 
Fund to the extent of Rs. 24 , 000 towards its cost . 

( c ) Assistance to T . B . patients. - Subsistence allow 
ance at Rs. 50 .00 per month continued to be granted to 
the dependents of mica miners who were under treat 
ment in the T . B . Ward attached to the Central Hospi 
tal, Karma. 

The scheme of domiciliary treatment of T . B . and 
Silicosis patients was also continued . The patients 
attending the out - door denartment of the TB. Hospi 
tal. Nellore , were oranted travelling allowance A 
Rehabilitation - rum - Convalesnenre Home set up in 
Rihar for workers cured of T . R .. continued to func 
tion Financial assistance to mica miners suffering 


( iii ) Recreational facilities. - Four mobile cinema 
units (three in Bihar and one in Rajasthan ) , gave free 
show s in different mining centres. Radio sets con 
tinued to he provided for the recreation of mica 
minors and their families . In Bihar . the recreational 
facilities were provided at Multimurnace Institutos . 
Community and Feeder Centres. Dut-noor and in 
ainor recreational facilities were also provided in the 
Centrec sub - rentres and feeder rentres in Rainathan . 
and 15 Renseational Clubs in Andhra Pradesh , Bhaian 
and Kirtan parties were oroonised in different mining 
grond. Annual Sports were also conducted in the form 
of Zonal Tournaments and prizes were distributed to 
the winners . 


( iv ) Drinking water facilities. - 80 wells ( 74 in 
Bihar and 6 in Andhra Pradesh ) were constructed 
those sunk durino 1960 - 70 Twelve additinnal hy 
the Fund Organisation Out nf thoca 14 wells ware 
wolle 3 in Rihar and 9 in Andhra Prartesh - were also 
cunk under the subsidy Srheme under which the mine 
owners who sink wel s get a cuhsidy equal to Rs 7 ENO 
des vell or 75 per cent of the cost of construction , 
whichever is less . 


4360 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II 


( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 


नई दिल्ली , 19 जुलाई , 1972 


का० प्रा० 2982- - अभ्रक खान श्रम कल्याण निधि अधि 
नियम , 1946 ( 1946 का 22 ) की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार , 31 मार्च, 
1970 को समाप्त होने वाले वर्ष के दौरान अभ्रक खान श्रम कल्याण 
निधि से वित्त पोषित क्रियाकलाप की निम्नलिखित रिपोर्ट उस वर्ष 
के लेखा के विवरण और उक्त निधि के वर्ष 1970 - 71 की प्राप्तियों 
और व्यय के प्राक्कलन के सहित एतद्वारा प्रकाशित करती है । 


( v ) Horising facilities. The progress of housing in 
the three regions was as under : 
( a ) In Bihar , a departmental colony consisting of 

50 houses was provided at Jorasimar. An 
other colony of 48 houses at Domchanch had 
been completed. Construction of 500 low cost 
houses at a cost of Rs. 1,600 each was also 

sanctioned. 
( b ) In Andhra Pradesh , sixteen houses under the 

Low cost Housing Scheme were under con 
struction and nearing completion Work 
orders for 12 more houses were issued . Seven 
houses were constructed under the " Bild Your 
Own House Scheme ". Construction of 5 more 
houses under the same scheme was in pro 
gress.. In addition to the sanction already 
accorded to a departmental colony of 50 
houses at Shah Mines , sanction was given to 
the construction of another colony of 40 

houses at Talupur . 
( c ) Jn Rajasthan. part subsidy to 48 mica mine 

" Build Your Own House Scheme" had been 

workers for construction of houses under 
( vi ) Financial help in case of accidents. - The 

Scheme relating to the grant of financial 
paid . 
assistance from the Fund to the widows and 
children of mica miners who die as a result 

of accidents was continued . 
( vi ) Consumer s Co - operative Stores . One whole 

cale ( Central ) Consumers Co - operative 
Stores with seven hranches and five primary 
stores in Bihar and four primary consumers 
ro - operative stores in Andhra Pradesh can 
tintent to funntion In Raiasthan region olan 
consumer gonde arrn -r - Tird to micr mining 
population through six co - operative Stores . 


भाग 1 


___ 1. साधारण : -- अभ्रक खान श्रम कल्याण निधि का गठन 
अभ्रक खाम श्रम कल्याण निधि अधिनियम , 1946 ( 1946 का 
22 ) के अधीन अभ्रक खान उद्योग में नियोजित श्रमिकों के कल्याण 
की अभिवृद्धि करने के क्रियाकलाप का वित्तपोषण करने के लिए 
किया गया है । इस प्रयोजन के लिए प्रगणित कुछ बड़े क्रियाकलाप 
स्वच्छता , चिकित्सीय सुविधाए , आवसन , जलप्रदाय , शिक्षा रहन 
सहन के स्तर में सामान्य सुधार तथा आमोद- प्रमोद की सुविधाएं 


PART II 


____ 2. अधिनियम में उन राज्य क्षेत्रों से , जिन पर अधिनियम का 
विस्तार है ,निर्यात की गई सभी अभ्रक पर 61 प्रतिशत मूल्यानुसार 
से अनधिक दर पर , उपकर के रूप में सीमा शुल्क के उद्ग्रहण के 
लिए उपबन्ध है । किन्त अभी के लिए नियत दर 2 प्रतिशत 
मूल्यानुसार है । सग्रहण विभिन्न अभ्रक उत्पादक क्षेत्रों में उनके 

औसत उत्पादन के अनुपात में , कल्याणार्थ व्यय के लिए आवंटित 
किए जाते हैं । 


* Statement of Accounts for the ye ır 169- 70 . 


Receipts . 


Exden liture 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Epanditure 11 
ring the yar. 


52 , 49, 692 


I, 56, 25 , 927 


Opaning balance 
on Ist April, 
1969 

. 
Rocriots during 

the year . 
. TOTAL . 


Closing balance. 1, 43, 60023 


39, 85 ,588 


1, 96. 10, 615 


1 ,95. 0 , 615 


* prires in licatiihy Acc ) 17+ antG 
in the Appropriation Accounts. 


ral Contral Reven les 


3. अधिनियम के प्रशासन से सम्बद्ध विषयों के बारे में केन्द्रीय 
सरकार को सलाह देने के लिए केन्द्रीय सरकार ने ( सरकार का , 
अभ्रक खानों के स्वामियों का और अभ्रक उद्योग में नियोजित 
कर्मकारों का प्रतिनिधित्व करने वाली ) तीन सलाहकार समितियां 
गठित को हैं अर्थात् अांध्र प्रदेश , बिहार तथा राजस्थान राज्य में 
प्रत्येक के लिए एक एक समिति 1 प्रादेशिक निधियों के क्रियाकलाप 
को समन्वित करने के लिए पहले एक समन्वय समिति थी जिसमें 
केवल सरकारी व्यक्ति थे । अभ्रक खान कर्मकारों और अभ्रक 
खान नियोजकों को प्रतिनिधित्व देने के लिए उस समिति के स्थान 
पर 5 अक्टूबर , 1967 को एक त्रिपक्षीय केन्द्रीय सलाहकार बोर्ड 
बनाया गया जिसके अध्यक्ष मन्त्रालय के संयुक्त सचिव थे । उस 
बोर्ड की पहली बैठक हैदराबाद में 28 दिसम्बर, 1967 को हुई 
थी । वह बोर्ड एक वर्ष की अवधि के लिए था और बोर्ड के जीवनकाल 
के समान्त हो जाने पर , वह 26 नवम्बर , 1968 को पुनर्गठित 
किया गया और उसकी अवधि तीन वर्ष नियत की गई । बोर्ड की 
दूसरो बैठक में , जो भीलवाड़ा ( राजस्थान ) में 14 दिसम्बर , 
1968 को हई थी , बोर्ड ने यह सिफारिश की कि प्रत्येक राज्य 


PART III 
Aktials Receipts & Expen liture for the year 1970 - 71. 
Receipts . . . . . . Rs. 31 ,47, 209 
Exp3n liture . . . . . Rs. 43,71 ,500 

INo. F. Z - 16015 / 3/ 7I M - III] 

P . R . Nayar , 
Under Secy . 


436r 


SEC . 3( 1)] 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972, ASVINA 29 , 1894 

- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
सलाहकार ममिति का अध्यक्ष उस राज्य का श्रम मन्त्री होना वाई में उपचार हो रहा था , प्राश्रितों को 50 . 00 १० प्रतिमास 
चाहिए । केन्द्रीय सरकार ने यह सिफारिश स्वीकार कर ली और के हिसाब से निर्वाह भत्ता दिया जाता रहा । 
राज्यों के श्रम मन्त्री राज्य सलाहकार समितियों के अध्यक्ष बना 

क्षय रोग और सिकतामयता के रोगियों के गह- उपचार की 
दिए गए हैं । 

स्कीम भी जारी रखी गई । क्षय रोग अस्पताल, नेल्लोर, के बहिरग 
4. बिहार , प्रांध्र प्रदेश और राजस्थान राज्यों में निम्नलिखित विभाग में आने वाले रोगियों को यात्रा भत्ता दिया गया । क्षय रोग 
कल्याणार्थ उपाय प्रारम्भ किए गए हैं : - - 

से ठीक हुए कर्मकारों के लिए में बिहार में स्थापित पुनर्वास - एव 
( 1 ) चिकित्सीय सुविधाए 

उल्लास गृह काम करता रहा । क्षय रोग से पीडित अभ्रक खनिकों 

लिए विशेष भत्ते के रूप में 50 रु० प्रतिमास और छह मास के 
( क ) अस्पताल - - निधि के साधनों से करमा (बिहार ) 

को निर्वास भोजन के लिए 50 रु० प्रतिमास की वित्तीय सहायता 
में एक 100 शय्याओं वाला केन्द्रीय अस्पताल , तिसरी 

दी जाती रही । अभ्रक खनिकों में से क्षय रोग के रोगियों की 
(बिहार ) में 30 शय्याओं वाला एक प्रादेशिक 

गृह - उपचार स्कीम राजस्थान में जारी रखी गई । 
हस्पताल कालीचेड़ ( आंध्र प्रदेश ) में 14 शरमाओं 
वाला एक हस्पताल और गगापुर ( राजस्थान ) में 

(II ) शिक्षा सम्बन्धी सुविधाएं - बिहार में नौ बहुउद् 
30 शैय्यानों वाला एक केन्द्रीय अस्पताल बनाए 

देशीय संस्थानों में , जिनमें से प्रत्येक में , एक प्रौढ़ शिक्षो केन्द्र और 
रखे गए । तालपुर ( आंध्र प्रदेश ) के औषधालय 

एक नारी कल्याण अनुभोग है , कर्मकारों को शिक्षा और प्रामोद 
को 10 शय्या वाले एक अस्पताल में बदल दिया 

प्रमोद की सविधाएं, महिला कर्मकारों और खनिकों के आश्रितों 
गया । करमा (बिहार ) में 50 शय्या वाला एक 

को सिलाई प्रादि जैसी दस्तकारी में प्रशिक्षण दिया गया । आन्ध्र 
क्षय रोग का अस्पताल और काली चेड स्थित 

प्रदेश में दो नारी केन्द्रों में और राजस्थान में ऐसे ही सात केन्द्रों 
अस्पताल से सलग्न 16 शय्या वाला एक क्षय रोग 

में लड़कियों और महिला अर्मकारों को दर्जीगीरी , सिलाई प्रादि 
वार्ड तथा तिसरी ( बिहार ) की 30 शय्या वाली 

निखाई गई । खनिकों के बच्चों को शिक्षा सम्बन्धी सुविधाएं 
एक क्षय रोग क्लीनिक काम करते रहे । 

आन्ध्र प्रदेश में 6 प्रारम्भिक स्कूलों, दो हाई स्कूलों और 2 प्रौढ़ 
( ख ) अन्य चिकित्सीय सुविधाए: -- निधि की पूंजी से 

माक्षरता केन्द्रों में , बिहार में 4 प्राथमिक स्कूलों , 4 मिडिल 
स्थापित किए गए अन्य चिकित्सा संस्थानों में 

स्कूलों और 7 फीडर ( पूरक ) स्कूलों में और राजस्थान में 2 
स्थैतिक औषधालय आयुर्वेदिक औषधालय , चल 

प्राथमिक स्कूलों , 1 मिडिल स्कूल, 24 प्रोढ़ शिक्षा केन्द्रों और 5 
चिकित्सा -- यूनिटें , मातृ और शिशु कल्याण केन्द्र 

पूरक केन्द्रों में दी जाती रही । इनके आलावा , आन्ध्र प्रदेश 
आदि समाविष्ट हैं । इस वर्ष के दौरान इन चिकित्सा 

में एक सांयकालीन खनन स्कूल चलता रहा । उसमें खनिकों 
सस्थानों का प्रादेशिक वितरण निम्न प्रकार से है : - - 

को खनन व्यवसायों में प्रशिक्षण सुविधाएं दी गई । 


राजस्थान 


चिकित्सा संस्थान प्रांध्र प्रदेश बिहार 

आयुर्वेदिक औषधालय . 3 
स्थैतिक प्रौषधालय . 2 
चल चिकित्सा - यूनिटें . 
मातु और शिशु कल्याण 

छोटे सामुदायिक केन्द्र 4 


सरकारी कल्याण निधि क्षय रोग और छाती रोग अस्पताल , 
नेल्लोर , में छह शय्याए अभ्रक खनिकों और उनके 
कुटुम्ब के अनन्य उपयोग के लिए आरक्षित की गई थी । लेटुभारी 
अस्पताल में बिहार के उन अभ्रक खनिकों के , जो कुष्ठ से पीड़ित 
हैं , उपचार के प्रबन्ध बनाए रखे गए । इम वर्ष के दौरान एक एक्स- रे 
सन्यन्न सरकारी अस्पताल , गुड़र , में , निधि से उसकी लागत मझे 
24000 रु० को वित्तीय सहायता से लगाया गया । 


आन्ध्र प्रदेश के स्कूलों में , अभ्रक खनिकों के बच्चों को मुफ्त 
मध्याहन भोजन , दूध पुस्तकें , स्लेटे और वस्त्र जैसी सुविधाएं 
दी गई । बिहार के बहाउद्देशीय संस्थानों , सामदायिक केन्द्रों 
और स्कूलों में जाने वाले खनिकों के बच्चों को दूध , टिफिन, 
पुस्तकें , स्लेटें , वस्त्र आदि दिए गए । बिहार में बहुउद्देशीय 
संस्थानों में जाने वाले बच्चों को रोज नहलाया गया जिसके लिए 
तेल और मावन की व्यवस्था संस्थान ने की । राजस्थान में अभ्रक 
खनिकों के स्कूल जाने वाले बच्चों को मध्याहन भोजन , पुस्तकें 
स्लेटें और अन्य लेखन सामग्री दी गई । 

स्कूलों और कालेजों में अध्ययन करने वाले अभ्रक खनिकों 
के बच्चों के लिए बिहार में चार और आन्ध्र प्रदेश में दो क्षात्रावास 
चलाये जाते रहे । उच्चतर माध्यमिक स्कूल में अध्ययन करने वाले 
अभ्रक खनिकों के बच्चों के लिए गंगापुर ( राजस्थान ) में स्थापित 
होस्टल चलता रहा । 

अभ्रक खनिकों के बिहार , आन्ध्र प्रदेश और राजस्थान 
के स्कलों और कालेजों में अध्ययन करने वाले बच्चों को छात्रवृत्तियां 
दी गई । ऐसी छात्रवृत्तियां साधारण और तकनीकी दोनों ही 
प्रकार के शिक्षा के लिए दी गई । अभ्रक खनिकों के उन बच्चों 


( ग ) क्षय रोग के रोगियों को महायता : - - उन अभ्रक 
ख निकों के , जिनका केन्द्रीय अस्पताल , करमा से सेलग्न क्षय रोग 


TH3 GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART 11 -- 


को जो स्कूलों में पढ़ने हैं , बिहार में ट्यूशन फीम की प्रतिपूति 
भी की गई । 


आन्ध्र प्रदेश में निधि संगठन के प्राधीन , दो उच्चतर माध्य 
मिक स्कूलों और छह प्रारम्भिक स्कूलों में एक स्कूल-स्वास्थ्य 
कार्यक्रम शुरू किया गया । 


की एक और कालोनी के मनिर्माण की मन्जूरी 

दे दी गई थी । 
( ग ) राजस्थान में , " स्वयं अपना मकान बनाइए स्कीम " 

के आधीन मकानों के सन्निर्माण के लिए 48 अभ्रक 
खान कमकारों को भागिक महायकी संदत्त कर 
दी गई थी । 


( VI) दुर्घटनाओं की दशा में आर्थिक सहायता उन अभ्रक 
खनिकों की जो दुर्घटनाओं के परिणामस्वरूप मर जाते हैं , विधवानों 
और बच्चों को निधि में मे वित्तीय महायता देने सम्बन्धी स्कीम 
को जारी रखा गया । 


( III ) प्रामोद प्रमोद की सुविधाएं - चार चल-सिनेमा युनिटों 
ने ( तीन बिहार में और एक राजस्थान में ) विभिन्न खनन केन्द्रों 
में मुफ्त चलचिव प्रदशिन किए । अभ्रक खनिकों और उनके 
कुटुम्बों के पापोद प्रमोद के लिए रेडियों सेट दिये जाते रहे । 
बिहार में बहुउद्देशी संस्थानों, सामुदायिक और पूरक केन्द्रों 
में प्रामोद प्रमोद की सुविधाएं दी चई । बहिरंग और अंतरंग 
प्रामोद प्रोमोर की सविधाएं भी राजस्थान में केन्द्रों , उप केन्द्रों , 
और फीडर केन्द्रों में तथा भान्ध्र प्रदेश के 15 आमोद प्रमोद क्लबों 
में दी गई । विभिन्न खनन क्षत्रों में भजन और कीर्तन मण्डलियां 
संगठित की गई । वार्षिक खेलकूद का भी प्रायोजन जोनल टूर्ना 
मन्ट के रूप में किया गया और विजताओं को पुरस्कार वितरित 
किए गए : 


( VII ) उपभोक्ता महकारी स्टोर : - बिहार में एक थोक 
( केन्द्रीय ) उपभोक्ता सहकारी स्टोर, जिसकी सात शाखोएं हैं 
और पांच प्रोथमिक स्टोर तथो आन्ध्र प्रदेश में चार प्राथमिक उप 
भोक्ता सहकारी स्टोर काम करते रहे राजस्थान प्रदेश में भी 
अभरक स्खनन सम्बन्धी लोगों को उपभोक्ता माल छह सहकारी 
स्टोरों से सप्लाई किया गया । 


भाग II 


1969 - 70 वर्ष का लेखा विवरण 


कुएं ( 74 बिहार में और 6 प्रान्ध्र प्रदेश में ) बनवाए गए । 
इनमें से 14 कुएं वह हैं जो 1969- 70 वर्षमें गलाए गए थे । 
बारह और कुएं भी ( 3 बिहार में और 9 आन्ध्र प्रदेश में ) उस 
सहायकी स्कीम के प्राधीन गलाए गए जिसके प्राधीन उन खान 
स्वामियों को , जो कुएं गलाते हैं , 7500 रु० प्रति कु या संनि 
र्माण की लागत के 75 प्रतिशत के बराबर इनमें से जो भी कम 
हो उसके बराबर , सहायकी मिलती है । 


प्राप्तियां 
1 अप्रल , 1969 को 
अयअधिशेष 1, 56, 25, 027 F० 
वर्ष के दौरान 

प्राप्तियां 39, 85, 588 रु० 


व्यय 
वर्ष के दौरान 
व्यय 52, 49, 692 रु० 
अन्त अतिशेष 


( V ) प्रावास सुविधाएं : - उक्त तीनों प्रदेशों में आवसन 
की प्रगति निम्नलिखित है : 


1 , 43, 60, 92350 


योग 


1, 96, 10, 615 रु० 


1, 96 , 10, 615 


विनियोग लेखा में केन्द्रीय राजस्व के महालेखापाल द्वारा उपदर्शित 
अंक । 


भाग III 


( क ) बिहार में 50 मकानों वाली एक विभागीय कालोनी 

जोरासिमार में बनाई गई । 48 मकानों वाली एक 
अन्य कालीनी डोमछांच में पूरी हो गई थी । 
1, 600 रु० की लागत के 500 कम लागत वाले 
मकानों के मन्निर्माण की भी मजूरी दे दी गई 

थी । 
ख ) आन्ध्र प्रदेश में , कम लागत वाले मकानों की 

स्कीम के आधीन सोलह मकान निर्माणाधीन 
के पोर बनकर तैयार होने वाले थे । 12 

और मकानों के लिए वर्क आदेश जारी कर 
दिए गए थे । सात मकान " स्वयं अपना मकान 
बनवाईये स्कीम " के प्राधीन बनाये गये थे । उसी 
स्कीम के प्राधीन 5 और मकानों के सनिर्माण 
का काम चालू था । शाह माइन्स में 50 मकानों 
की विभागीय कालोनी के लिए पहले ही दी जा 
थुकी मन्जूरी के अतिरिक्त सालपुर में 40 मकानों 


1970 - 71 वर्ष की वास्तविक प्राप्तियां और व्यय 
प्राप्तियां . 

. . 31, 47, 209 २० 
व्यय . . 

. 43, 71, 500रु० 
[सं० फा० जैछ० 160 16/ 3/ 71- एम0 - 3] 


पी० पार नैयर, 
अवर सचिव , एम० डब्ल्यू । 


Sc. 3(1 ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29, 1894 


4363 


(Departmont of Labour and Employment 

ORDERS 
New Delhi, the 11th May 1972 
8 . 0 . 2983. — Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the management of Jotcjanki 
Khas Colliery of Messrs Banerji Santan , Post Office 
Toposl, District Burdwan and their workmen in res 
pect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed%3B 


प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा 
उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7-क के अधीन गठित 
केन्द्रीय सरकार औद्योगिक प्रधिकरण , कलकत्ता , को न्यायनिर्णयन 
के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 


अनुसूची 


And whereas the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 


" क्या मैसर्स बनर्जी सन्तन की जोतेजानकी खास कोलियरी, 
डाकघर , टोपोसी , जिला बर्दवान के प्रबन्ध द्वारा 6 जनवरी , 
1972 से निम्नलिखित कर्मकारों को काम से रोकना न्यायोचित है ? 

यदि नहीं, तो कर्मकार किस अनुतोष के हकदार हैं ? 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the 
Industrlal Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947) , the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudica 
tion to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
Calcutta, constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 


क्रमांक 


नाम 


पदनाम 


" Whether the management of Jotejanki Khas Col 

llery of Messrs Banerji Santan , Post Office 
Toposi, District Burdwan are justified in stop 
ping from work the following workmen , with 
effect from the 6th January , 1972 ?. If not, to 
what reller are the workmen entitled ? 


SCHEDULE 


S1. 
No . 


Name 


Designation . 


. 
. 


1. Shri Shankar Gope. . . 
2 . Shri Rabi Lachan Gope. . 
3. Shri Khirodh Bouri . . . 
4. Shri woman Mondal. 
5. Shri Badal Mondal . 
6. Shri Choudhary Kora . 
7 . Shri Arun Mondal . 
18. Shri Rogan Mia . 

9 . Shri Chootu Mia . . 
ro. Shri Saffuruddin Mia . 
II . Shri Latu Mia . 
12 . Shri Islam Mla. 


Line Mistry . 
Trammor . 
E. Khalsal. 
Chaprasi. 
Night Guard. 
Trammer . 
Pump Khalagi. 
L . Mozdoor, 
Pick Miner . 
Pick Mindr . 
Pick Miner . 
Pick Minor , 1 


___ श्री पबी लूहान गोप 

श्री रिवरोध बोउरी 
श्री डोमन मोंडल 
श्री बादल मोडल 
श्री चौधरी कोरा 
श्री अरुण मोडल 
श्री रोगन मियां 

श्री चूट्ट मिया 
. श्री सफरुद्दीन मियां 
11. लाटू मियां 

श्री इस्लाम मियां 


लाइन मिस्त्री 
ट्रैम्मर 
ई० खलासी 
चपरासी 
रात्रिरक्षक 
ट्रैम्यर 
पम्प खलासी 
एल० मजदूर 
पिक खनिक 
पिक खनिक 
पिक खनिक 
पिक खनिक 


[ संख्या एल0/ 19 12/ 28/ 72 -एल० प्रार०- 2 ] 


New Delhi , the 20th May 1972 


[ No. L / 1912 / 28/ 72 -LRII . ] 
( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 

मादेश 
नई दिल्ली , 11 मई, 1972 
का०मा० 2983. -यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है क इससे 
उपावद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में मैसर्स बनर्जी 
सन्तन की जोतेजानकी खास कोलियरी, डाकघर टोपोसी , जिला 
बर्दवान के प्रबन्ध से सम्बद्ध नियोजको और उनके कर्मकारो के बीच 
एक प्रौद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 

और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन 
के लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय समझती है ; 

प्रतः, अब, प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 
का 14 ) की धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा 


S . O . 2984 . Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the management of Madhujore 
Colliery of Messrs Madhujore Coal Company Private 
Limited , Post Omce Kajoragram , District Burdwan and 
their workmen in respect of the matters specifed in 
the Schedule hercto annexed ; 


And whereas the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause ( d ) of sub- section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the 
Industrinl Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudi 
cation to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
Calcutta , constituted under section 7A of the said Act, 


4364 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II 


SCHEDULE 


Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudi 
cation to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
Calcutta, constituted under section 7A of the said 
Act . 


SCHEDULE 


“ Whether the action of the management of Madhu 

fore Colliery of Messrs Madhuiore Coal Com 
pany Private Limited , Post Office Kajoragram , 
District Burdwan , in stopping Shri Surajnath 
Singh, Mining Sirdar , from work with effect 
from the 21st June, 1971 and subsequently 
dismissing him from service with effect from 
the 2nd December , 1971, is justified ? If not, 
to what relief is the workman entitled ? ” 


[ No . L / 19012/ 14 / 72 -LRII . ] 


नई दिल्ली, 20 मई, 1972 


Whether the management of Ardhogram Khas 

Colliery of Mesers R . K . Agarwala and Sons 
Private Limited , Post Office Ardhooram , 
District Rankura . was instified in refusing 
employment to Sarvashri Ram Shankar Roy , 
Sunervisor. Sunil Kumar Raneriee , Attendance 
Clark and Kosta Bouri. Guard with effect 
from the 8th November, 1971 ? Tt not . to 
what relief are these workmen entitled ? " 

EN. L /19012 / 23 / 72-LRII.J 

KARNAIL SINGH. Under Seey . 
का० प्रा० 20९८ यता केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे 
उपाव अनपत्री में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में मैसर्स प्रार० के० 
अग्रवाला एंड सन्म प्राइवेट लि . की अग्धोग्राम खाप कोलियरी , 
डाकघर, परधोगाप , जिना बंकरा के प्रबंध ये सम्बद निपोजकों 
और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक प्रौद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 


का० प्रा० 2984 - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे 
उपाबद्ध अनसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में मैसस मघजोरे 
कोल कम्पनी प्राइवेट लिमिटेड की मधुजोर कोलियरी , डाकघर 
कजोराग्राम, जिला बर्दवान के प्रबंध से साबद्ध नियोजकों और उनके 
कर्मकारों के बीच एक प्रौद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 


और यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के 
लिए निदेशित करना वांछनीय समझती है ; 


अतः अब , प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 
14 ) की धारा 10 की उपधारा (1 ) के खंड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्ति 
यों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा उक्त विवाद को 
उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 8 क के अधीन गठित केन्द्रीय सरकार 
प्रोद्योगिक अधिकरण , कलकत्ता को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित 
करती है । 


और यत : केन्दीय सरकार उस्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के 
लिए निर्देशित करना वांतीय समझती है ; 

अत • पत्र , पौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 
का 14) की धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खंड ( घ ) दारा 
प्रदन शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए . केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा 
उक्न विवाद को रक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7 - क के अधीन गठित 
केन्द्रीय सरकार प्रौद्योगिक अधिकरग , कलकत्ता को न्यायनिर्णयन 
के लिए निर्देशित करनी है । 


अनपत्री 


अनुसूची 
" क्या मैमर्स मधुजोरे कोल कम्पनी प्राइवेट लिमिटेड की मधु 
जोरे कोलियरी, डाकघर , कजोरा ग्राम , जिला बर्दवान के प्रबंध 
मंडल की श्री सूरजनाथ सिंह, खनन सिरदार को 21 जून , 1971 


" कण मै पर्म ग्रार० के० अग्रवाला एंड मन्स प्राइवेट लि . की 
अग्धोग्राप खाप कोलियरी . डाकवर परधोपाम . जिला बंकरा के 
प्रा पंडल नाग पर्व श्री रामगंकर राग . पर्यवेक्षक , सुनिल कुमार 
बनर्जी, एटेन्डेंप क्लर्क प्रौर कैस्नों बौरीगाई को 8 नवम्बर , 1971 
से काम से मना करना न्यायोचित था ? यदि नहीं तो ये गर्मकार 
किस अनतोष के हकदार हैं ? " 
[ [म० एल०/ 19012/ 23 / 72 -एल० पार० - 2] 

करनैल सिंह , अवर सचिव । 


च्युत करने की कार्यवाही न्यायोचित है ? यदि नहीं तो कर्मकार 
किस अनुतोष का हकदार है ? " 

[ संख्या एल०/19012 /14/ 72 -एलआर० -2 ] 


S . O . 2985 . - Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the management of Ardhog 
ram Khas Col’ iery of Messrs R . K . Agarwal and Sons 
Private Limited , Post Office Ardhogram, District 
Bankura and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


(Department of Labour and Employment 

ORDERS 
New Delhi, the 5th June 1972 
s . O 2986 . - Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
emnlovers in relation to the management of Singareni 
Collieries Company Limited , Belampalli Division , Post 
Office Re amnalli, (Andhra Pradesh ) and their workmen 
in respert of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed ; 


And Whereas the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 


Now , Therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause ( d ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947) , the Central 


And whereas the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 


SEC. 3Cit ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4365 


And whereas the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute 100 adjudication ; 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 7A and clause (d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government herepy constitutes an 
industrial Tribunal with Shri P . S , Ananth , as Presiding 
Officer witā neadquarte£s at Afzal Lodge , Tilak Road , 
Ramkote , Hyderabad - 1, and refers the said dispute for 
adjudication to the said Industrial Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of the management of Singareni 

Collieries Company Limited , Belampalli Divi 
sion in redesignating Shri M . A . Karim as 
Assistant Draughtsman and placing him in the 
grade of Rs. 243 - 440 at the time of implement 
ing the recommendations of the Centia . Wage 
Board for Coal Mining Industry is justified ? 
If not, to which grade and designation is he 
entitled and from which date " 

[ No. L / 21012 / 6 / 72 -LRII . ] 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause ( d ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of section du of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1941 ), the Cen 
tral Government hereby reiers the said dispute for ad 
judication to the Central Government Industrial Tri 
bunal, Calcutta, constituted under section 7A of the 
said Act. 

SCHEDULE 


" Whether the management of Madhujore Colliery 

of Messrs Madhujore Coal Company Private 
Limited , Post Office Kajoragram , District 
Burdwan is justified in stopping from work 
Shri Ramlaknan Shaw , Mining , Sirdar , with 
effect from tae 16th November , 1971 ? It not , 
to what relief is the workman entit. ed ? " 

INo. L / 19012 / 13/ 72- LRII. ] 


( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 

प्रादेश 

नई दिल्ली , 5 जून 1972 
का०मा० 2986 - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे 
उपाबद्ध अनुसूची मे बिनिर्दिष्ट विषयो के बारे में सिगरेनी कोलि 
यरीज कम्पनी लिमिटेड, बेलामपाल्ली प्रभाग , डाकघर बेलाम 
पाल्ली ( प्रान्धप्रदेश ) के प्रबन्यतन से सम्बद्ध नियोजको और 
उनके कर्मकारो के बीच एक ओद्यागिक विवाद विद्यमान है । 

और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के 
लिए निर्देशित करना वाछनोय समझती हे ; 


नई दिल्ली, 9 जून , 1972 
का० प्रा०2987. - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इस से 
उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयो के बारे में मैसर्स मधुजोरे 
कोल कम्पनी प्राईवेट लिमिटेड की मधुजोर, कोलियरी, डाकघर , 
कजोरा ग्राम ,जिला बर्दवान के प्रबंधसे सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके 
कर्मकारों के बीच एक औद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान हैं ; 

और यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के 
लिए निर्देशित करना वाछनीय समझतो है ; 
___ अतः, अब, प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम 1947 ( 1947 
का 14 ) की धारा 10 को उपधारा ( 1 ) के खड ( घ ) द्वारा 
प्रदत्त शक्तियो का प्रयोग करते हुए . केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा 
उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम को धारा 7 - क क प्रधान गाठेत 
केन्द्रीय सरकार औद्योगिक प्रधिकरण , कलकत्ता को न्यायनिर्णयन 


अतः, अब , औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 
का 14) की धारा 7- क और धारा 10 को उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड 
( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियो का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार 
एतद्वारा एक औद्योगिक अधिकरण गठित करती है जिसके 
पीठासीन अधिकारी श्री पी० एस० अनन्थ होगें , जिनका मुख्यालय 
अफजल लाज तिलक राड़, रामकोट, हैदाराबाद - 1 होगा और उक्त 
विवाद को उक्त आधागक अधिकरण, का न्यायानणयन , 
के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 


अनुसूची 
" क्या मैसर्स मधुजोर कोल कम्पनी प्राइवेट लिमिटेड की 

मधुजोर कोलियरी, डाकघर कजोराग्राम , जिला 
बर्दवान के प्रबधमडल को , श्री राम लखन था , 
माईनिंग निरक्षर को , 16 नवम्बर , 1971 
से कम से रोकना न्यायोचित है ? यदि नहीं , 
कर्मकार किस अनुतोष का हकदार है ? " . 


अनुसूची 
" क्या सिगरेनी कोलियरीज कम्पनी लिमिटेड, बेलमपाल्ली 
प्रभाग के प्रबन्धतत्र की कोयला खनन उद्योग सम्बन्धो केन्द्रीय 
वेतन बोर्ड की सिफारिशा का कार्यान्वत करते समय , श्री एम० ए० 
करीम को , सहायक ड्राफटसमेन के रूप म पुन . पदनाामत करने 
और उन्हे 245 - 440 रुपये के प्रड म रखने का कार्यवाहा न्यायाचित 


[ संख्या एल० / 19012/ 13/ 72 - एल० मार• II ] 


[ सं० एल०/ 21012/ 6 / 72- एल० आर० 2] 

New Delhi, the 9th June 1972 
S . O . 2987.- Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispuie exists between the 


New Delhi, the 13th June 1972 
S . O . 2988. Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an inuustrial aispule exists between the 
employers in relalion 10 lue mdiidgenen Of East 
Bnuggaldia Coillery of MESSES Dhalal LUKlug Coal 
Limited , Post Vulce jhalla , District Dhanudd , duu weir 
workmen in respect of ine malleis specued the 
Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And Whereas the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 
___ Now, theretore, in exercise of the powers conterred 
by clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 ot the 
Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 (14 of 1947) , Lne Lential 
Government hereby relers the said dispute for adjudi 
cation to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal 


Coinery of Messes Madnujore Coal Company Private 
Limited , Post Office Kajoragram , District burdwan and 
their workmen in respect of the matters specified in 
the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


4366 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II 


( No . 1)m Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of the 
said Act . 


tion to the Central Government Industrial Tibunal, 
Jabalpur, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 


SCHEDULE 


SCHEDULE 


" Whether the action of the management of East 

Bhuggatdih Colliery of Messrs Bharat Coking 
Coal Limited , Post Office Jharia , District 
Dhanbad , in stopping from work Shri Ali 
Hussain , Haulage Engine Khalasi, with effect 
from the 15th October , 1971 , is justifled ? If 
not, to what relief is the workman entitled ?" 


" Whether the management of Messrs Rewa Coal 

fields Limited , Post Office Dhanpuri, District 
Shahdol (Madhya Pradesh ) was justified in 
terminating the services of Shri Maniram , 
ShotArer, with effect from the 23rd June, 19727 
If not , to what relief is the workman entitled ? " 

[ No . L / 22012/ 22/ 72 - LRII .] 


[ No. L / 2012 / 7 /72- LRII . ] 


नई दिल्ली, 13 जून, 1972 


का० प्रा० 2989. - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है 
कि इससे उपाबस अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में रेवा 
कोल फील्ड्स लिमिटेड , डाकपर धनपुरी, जिला शहडोल ( मध्य 
प्रदेश ) के प्रबन्ध से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के 
बीच एक औद्योगिक विवाद विधमान है । 


आदेश 


का० प्रा० 2986. - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे 
उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में मैमर्स भारत कोंकिंग 
कोल लिमिटेड की ईस्ट भग्गतडीह कोलियरी, डाकघर झरिया , 
जिला धनबाद, के प्रबंध से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके 
कर्मकारों के बीच एक प्रौद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 


__ और यत: केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन 
के लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय सममती है । 


और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के 


अनः, अब , प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 
का 14 ) की धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा 
उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7 -क के अधीन गठित 
केन्द्रीय सरकार प्रौद्योगिक प्राधिकरण, जबलपुर को न्यायनिणयन 
के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 


अत :, अब, औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 
का 14 ) की धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खंड ( घ ) द्वारा 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा 
उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7 - क के अधीन गठित 
केन्द्रीय सरकार औद्योगिक प्रधिकरण, ( संख्या 1 ) धनबाद को 
न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 


अनुसूची 
" क्या मैसर्स रेवा कोल-फील्ड्स लिमिटेड, डाकघर धनपुरी , 
जिला - शहडोल ( मध्य प्रदेश ) के प्रबन्धमण्डल का 23 जून , 1972 
से श्री मनीरा शाट फायरर की सेवामों को समाप्त करना न्यायो 
चित था ? यदि नहीं , तो कर्मकार किस अनुतोष का हकदार 


अनुसूची 
" क्या मैसर्स भारत कोकिंग कोल लिमिटेड , की ईस्ट भग्गतडीह 
कोलियरी, डाकघर झरिया , जिला धनबाद के प्रबंधमण्डल की , श्री 
अली हुस्सैन , हाउलैज इंजिन खलासी को 15 अक्तूबर , 1971 
से काम से रोकने की कार्यवाही न्यायोचित है ? यदि ह नहीं , 
तो कर्मकार किस अनुतोष का हकदार है ? " 


[ संख्या एल ०- 22012/22/ 72- एल० पार०- 2] 


New Delhi, the 14th June 1972 


[ सं० एल०/ 2012/ 7/ 72- एल० प्रार० - 2 ] 


S . O . 2989 . - - Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the management of Rewa 
Coalfields Limited , Post Office Dhanpuri, District Shah 
dol (Madhya Pradesh ), and their workmen in respect of 
the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


S . O . 2990 . - Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the management of North 
Keshalpur Colllery of Messrs North Keshalpur Colliery 
Company Private Limited Post Office Katrasgarh , Dis 
trict Dhanbad , and their workmen in respect of the 
malters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


And , whereas, the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 


And , whereas, the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause (d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudica 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudica 
tion to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
( No . 1 ), Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the 
sald Act . 


SEC . Itii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4367 


- 


- 


- 


--- 


SCHEDULE 


“ Whether the action of the management of Selected 

Fatka Colllery , Post Office Nirsahatti, Dis 


SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of the management of North 

Keshalpur Colliery of Messrs North Keshalpur 
Colliery Company Private Limited , Post Office 
Katrasgarh , District Dhanbad in stopping 
Sarvashri Dharani Mallik , Surface Trammer 
and Lilu Mallick , Underground Trammer from 
duty with effect from dhe 8th November , 1971 
is justified ? If not , to what relief are the said 
workmen entitled ? " 


Subash Prasad Sinha, Munshi of the colliery , 
with effect from the 26th November , 1971 , is 
justified ? If not , to what relief is the said 
workman entitled ? " 


[ No. L / 2012 /38 / 72- LRII.] 


[ No. L / 2012 / 25 / 72- LRII.] 


नई दिल्ली, 15 जून 1972 


नई दिल्ली, 14 जून , 1972 


का० प्रा० 2991 - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे 
उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में , सिलेक्टेड फातका 
कोलियरी, डाकघर निरसाचट्टी, जिला धनबाद के प्रबंध से सम्बन 


का० प्रा० 2990 . न्यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है 
कि इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में मैसर्स 
नौर्य केशालपुर कोलियरी कम्पनी प्राईवेट लिमिटेड की नॉर्थ केशालपुर 
कोलियरी, डाकघर कतरासगढ़, जिला - धनबाद के प्रबन्ध से 
सम्बर नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक प्रौद्योगिक 
विवाद विद्यमान है । 


मान है । 


और यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायननिर्मयन 
के लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय समझती है ; 


और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन 
के लिए निर्देशित करना बांछनीय समझती है ; 


अत : अब, प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 1947 
का 14 ) की धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खंड ( घ ) द्वारा 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा 
उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7-क के अधीन गठित 
केन्द्रीय सरकार प्रौद्योगिक प्रधिकरण ( संख्या 1 ) धनबाद को 
न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 


अतः, अब , औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 
का 14 ) की धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा उक्त 
विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7-क के अधीन गठित 
केन्द्रीय सरकार प्रौद्योगिक अधिकरण ( संख्या 1 ) धनबाद को 
म्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 

अनुसूची 
" क्या मैसर्स नार्थ केशालपुर कोलियरी कम्पनी प्राइवेट लिमि 
टेड की नार्थ केशालपुर कौलियरी , डाकवर कतरासगढ़, जिला 
धनबाद के प्रबन्धमण्डल की सर्वश्री धारानी मल्लिक, सरफेस 
ट्रेमर और लीलू मल्लिक , अन्डर ग्राउंड ट्रेमर को 8 नवम्बर, 
1971 से काम से रोकने की कार्यवाही न्यायोचित है ? यदि नहीं 
तो उक्स कर्मकार किस अनुतोष के हकदार हैं ? " 

[ सं० एल०- 2012/ 25/ 72/ एल० पार०- 2] 


अनुसूची 
" क्या सिलेक्टेड फासका कोलियरी, डाकघर निरसाचदी , 

जिला धनबाद के प्रबंधमंडल की , कोलियरी 
के मुंशी, श्री सुभाष प्रसाद को 26 नवम्बर, 1971 
से काम से रोकने की कार्यवाही न्यायोचित है ? 
यदि नहीं , तो उक्त कर्मकार किस अनुतोष का 
हकदार है ? " 


[ संख्या एल / 2012/ 38/ 72 -एल० पार० - 2] 


New Delhi, the 15th June 1972 
S . O . 2991, — Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the management of Selected 
Fatka Colliery , Post Ollice Nirsachattı, District Dhan 
bad , and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specifled in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


S . 0 . 2992 . - Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the management of Industry 
West Ena Colliery belonging to East Industry Colliery 
Company ( Private ) Limited, Post Office Dhansar , Dis 
trict Dhanbad and their workmen in respect of the 
matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


And whereas the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 


And whereas the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dipute for adjudication ; 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1917 ( 1.3 of 1947) , the Central 
Government hereby rcfers the said dispute for adjudi 
cation to l ic Control Grernreut Industrial Tribunal 
(No. 1 ) , Dhanbad , ronstituierl under section 7A of the 
said Act , 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central 
Governinent hereby refers the said dispute for adjudl 
cation to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal 
( No. 1 ) . Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the 
said Act . 


4368 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


( PART 11 


SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of the manageinent of Industry 

/ West Ena Colliery kelnging to East Industry 
Col .iery Company (Fria! e ) Limited, Post 
Office Dhansar , District Dhanbad , in not poing 
wages to Shale Pickers in accordance with the 
recommendations of the Wage Board for Coal 
Mining Industry is justified ? It not, to what 
relief are the workmen entitled and from 
which date ? ? 


section 33 and section 33A of the said Act and arising 
out of the said disputes , from Shri Gopal Narain 
Sharma and transfers the same to Shri Mohd . Yaqoob 
Khan Presiding Officer , Industrial Tribunal, Jaipur, for 
The disposal of the said proceedings with the direction 
that the said Tribunal shall proceed with the said pro 
ceedings from the stage at which they are transferred 
to it and dispose of the same according to law . 


SCHEDULE 


( No . L / 2012 / 28/ 71 - LRII. ) 


SI . 
. No . 


Partios to the dispute . 


Roference Numbor 
and the date of tho 
Industrial Tribunal 


फा० प्रा० 2992- यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे 
उपायद मनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में ईस्ट इंडस्ट्री कोलियरी 
कम्पनी (प्राइवेट ) लिमिटेड की इंडस्ट्री/ वस्ट इना कोलियरी, डाक 
पर- धनसार, जिला धनबाद के प्रबंध से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके 
कर्मकारों के बीच एक औद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 


3 


-- 


मौर यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के 
लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय समझती है ; 

अतः, अब, प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 
का 14) की धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खंड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा उक्त विवाद 
को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7- क के अचान गठित केन्द्रीय सरकार 
भौद्योगिक अधिकरण (संख्या 1 ) धनबाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के 
लिए निर्देशित करती है । 


I. Employers in relation to M/ s. Bika - No. 24( 66 )/ 68 - LRI , 

ner Gypsums Limited , Bikaner dated 23- 8 - 1968 . 

Andthçirworkmen 
2 . Employers in relation to M / a , No . 24 (26 ) / 66 - LRI, 

Bikaner Gypsuns Ltd ., Bikanor dated 27 - 6 - 1966 . 

and their workoon . 
3. Employers in relation to M / s. No . 24( 33)/ 67- LRI 

Bikaner Gypsums Ltd., Bikaner dated 15 -12-1967 . 

andtheir workmen . 
4 . Employurs in relation to M / 8. No. 24 (35), 67 -LRI 

Bikaner Gypsuiny Ltd ., Bikaner dated I8- 12. 1967. 

und ther workmen , 
5. M/ s. Jalpur Udhyog Ltd., Sawai- No.36( 33)/ 69 -LRIY 

Madhopur and their workine. dated 27 - 10 - 1969 . 
6. M / 3. Bhiwara ani Company, Bhil- ND. 24( 62), 69 - LRIV 
Wara and their workm - n . 

dated I2 - II - 1969 . 
7 . M / S. Bhilwara and Company , Bhil - No. 24 ( 63 ) / 69 - LRIV 
wara and their workmen . 

dated I2 -11 - 1969 . 
8. M / s. Bhilwara ani Company , Bhil- N0. 24 ( 36 ), 69 - LRIV 
and their workmu. 

dated I2 - 11 - 1969 . 
9 . M /s. Jaipur Minerals D , velopinont No. 36 (41)/69- LRIY 

Syndicate Ltd., Jaipur and their dated 25 - 11 - 1969 . 
workinen . 


अनुसूची 


" क्या ईस्ट इंडस्ट्री कोलियरा कम्पनी ( पाइवेट ) लिमिटेड , 
की इंडस्ट्री/ वेस्ट इनाकोलियरी , डाकघर, धनसार, जिला धनबाद 
प्रबंध मंडल को , कोयला खनन उद्योग के लिए वतन बोर्ड को सिका 
रिशों के अनुसार शाले पिक की वतन भुगतान न करने को कार्य 
बाही न्यायोचित है ? यदि नहाँ ता कर्मकार किस अनुतोप के और 
किस तारीख से हकदार है । " 


[ संख्या एल0 / 2012/ 23/ 71 - एल० प्रार - 2 ] 


New Delhi, the 19th June 1972 
8 . 0 . 2999 , — Whereas the industrial disputes specified 
in the Schedule hereto annexed are pending before Shri 
Gopal Narain, Sharma, Presidilig Oillcer , Industrial 
Tribunal, Rajasthan , Jaipur; 


10. M / S. Jaipur Udhyog Ltd ., Sawai - No . 12 ( 1 )170 - LRIV . 

Madhopur and their workmen. dated 2 - 2 - 1970 .. 
I , M s. Biknor Gypsum Ltd ., Bika - No . 24 ( 77 )/69- LRIY 
ner and thoir workmcn . 

dated 26. 3.1970 
12. M / s. Bikaner Gypsum Ltd ., Bika - No. 30( 3 )/ 70 - LRIV. 
nor and their workmon . 

dated 12 - 5 - 1970. 
13, Mohammed & Sons Gypsum Con - No. 24( 76 )/69 -LRIV 

tractorsJodhpur and their work - dated 30 - 9 -1970 . 

men. 
14 . Shri A1 1Krim Stone Contractor , No . 12( 35 )170 - LRIV . 

Molak Store Kota and their dated 27 -11 - 1970 . 

workin an. 
15 . M /s. Bikaner Gypsum Ltd ., Bikaner No. 30 (7 ) 70 - LRIV . 
and their workinan. 

dated 19 - 2 - 1971 . 
15 . Suri Sultan Akthyar Anwar Stone L - 29012( 3 ) : 71- LRIY 

Limited Stono Mine, Ramganj- dated 6 - 4 -71, 

mandi and their workmen , 
17. Ms. Jaipur Mineral Development L - 29011 ( 9 )/ 71 - LRIV 

Syndicate Ltd ., Jaipur and dated 11 - 5 - 1971. 

Their workimen. 
jo . M / s. Bikaner Gypsum Lid ., Bikaner L - 25011 (3 ) , 71 - LRIV 
and thuir workinen , 

_ dated 23 - 7 - 197I. 


And whereas the services of the said Shri Gopal 
Narain Sharma, are no longer available ; 


And whereas for the ends of justice and convenience 
of parties , the said disputes should be disposed of with 
out further delay ; 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 7A, and sub- section ( 1 ) of sectlon 33B of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Cen 
tral Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tri 
bunal with Shri Mohd . Yaqoob Khan as the Presiding 
Omcer, with headquarters at Jaipur, withdraws the 
proceedings in relation to the said disputes and the 
Applications under the proviso to sub -section ( 2 ) of 


Lady 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4369 


3 


- 


- 


2 . 9- 3-1970 


. Taipur Udyog Ltd., 
Swaimadhopur 

Do. 


. . 


Vs. Shri Rames , 
___ shwar . 
Vs. Shri Chiran 
jilal. 


3. 9- 3-1970 


[ L - 29011 ( 30 )/ 72 - LRIV .] 


1 . 


नई दिल्ली , 19 जून , 1972 


19 . Rajasthan Automle Power Project L - 29011 (251171-LRI 
Kota and their workmen . 

dated 31 - 8 - 1971. 
20 . Tungs -ton Pariyojna Kheti Ki , L - 10( 47) 70 - LRIV. 

Bhankhri Degana and their work- dated 31 - 8 - 197I . 

men . 
West Sakhat Labour Contractor L - 29012 (26 ): 71 -LRIV 

Co -operative Society Sukhat, dated 25 - 10 - 1971. 

and their workmen . 
22 . Shri Sultan Akhtuar Mine Owner L - 20012 ( 28 ) I - LRI 

Sathilkheti New Village , Ram - dated 20 - 10 - 1971. 

ganjmandi and their workmen . 
3 . Ms. Jeidur Minerals Development L -29012 (21 ) 71 - LRIV 

Syndicate Ltd ., Jaipur and their dated II -II - I97I 

workmen . 
24. Western Bengal Chaliate Limi. L - 29011 ( 40 )71- LRIV 

ted . Khetri Copper Project, Khe - dated 14-12- 197I . 

trinagar and their workmen . 
as . Mohammet & Sons Gynsım Con - L - 25012 ( 2 ) 71 -LRIV 

tractor, Nagpur and their work - dated 28- 12 - 1971. 

men . 
46 . Tugstone Mine Project, Degana , L -29012 (6 ) :71 -LRIV . 
a ad their workmen . 

____ dated 31 - 12 - 197I. 
* 7. Ml« Trin ir Minoris Dayalonment N , 24( 1 ) /67 -LRT. 

Syndicate Private Ltd ., Jaipur dated 21 - 10- 1967 . 
and their workmen. 


का०या० 2995 .- -यतः इस से उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट 
औद्योगिक विवाद, श्री गोपाल नारायण शर्मा, पीठासीन अधिकारी , 
प्रौद्योगिक अधिकरण राजस्थान , जयपुर के समक्ष लम्बित हैं ; 
3 और यतः श्री गोपाल नारायण शर्मा की सेवाएं उपलब्ध नहीं 
रही हैं : और यतः उक्त विवाद को न्याय के उद्देश्य और पक्षकारों 
की सुविधा के लिए और आगे विलम्ब किए बिना निपटाया जाना 
चाहिए । 
१ . अतः , अब , औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम, 1947 ( 1947 
का 14 ) की धारा 7 - क और धारा 33ख की उपधारा ( 1 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा 
एक प्रौद्योगिक प्रधिकरण गठित करती है जिस के पीठासीन अधिकारी 
श्री मोहम्मद याक्व खां होंगे, जिन का मुख्यालय जयपुर होगा , 
श्री गोपाल नारायण शर्मा से उक्त विवादों और उक्त अधिनियम की 
धारा 33 की उपधारा ( 2 ) के परन्तुक और धारा 33 के अधीन 
और उक्त विवादों से उद्भूत आवेदन पत्रों से सम्बद्ध कार्यवाहियों 
को वापिस लेती है और उन्हें निपटाने के लिये श्री मोहम्मद याकूब 
खां , पीठासीन अधिकारी , प्रौद्योगिक अधिकरण जयपुर, को इस 
निदेश के साथ स्थानान्तरित करती है कि उक्त अधिकरण और 
आगे कार्यवाहियां उसी प्रक्रम से करेगा जिस पर वे उसे 
स्था नन्तरित की जायें और विधि के अनुसार उन का निपटान करेगा । 

. अनुसूची 


- 


Particulars of the applications complaints pending before the In 
dustrialTribunal . Rajasthan , jaipur under Section 33A of Industrial 
hisputes Act 1947 . 


31. Date of Application 


Parties to the dispute 
Applicant. Opposite Party 


- 


- 


- 


- 


__ क्रम 

संख्या 


विवाद के पक्षकार 


औद्योगिक अधिकरण को 

निर्देश संख्या और तारीख 


1. 9 - 5 - 1969 . Shri Ram Nath Singh Vs. Taipur Udh 

yog Lt . , Swa 

imadhopur . 
2. 7 - 3 - 1970 . Shri Matadeen Singh Vs. Do. 
३. 7- 12-1970 * . Shri Ramzan Vs . Mohd . and 

Sons , Gypsum 
Contractor 

Jodhpur. 
+ 14- 6-1971. . Shri Sukhdev Singh Vs. Phalodi Quar 

ry Jaipur Udhyog 

Ltd ., Sawaima 

Lhopur . 
5. 14 -6- 1971 Shri Surjeet Singh Vs. Do. " 
6. 14 -6-1971 . . Shri Gangoliya . Vs . Do . 
7. 14 -6-1971 . Shri Deva . . vs . Do. 
8. 14-6 - 1971 . Shri Devi Ram . Vs. Do. 


1 1 


2 


3 


1. मैसर्स बीकानेर जिप्सम्स संख्या 24 ( 66) / 68 - एल . 
लिमिटेड , बीकानेर से सम्बद्ध पार - तारीख 23- 8 - 1968 
नियोजक और उनके कर्मकार । 
2. मैसर्स बीकानेर जिप्सम्स संख्या 24 ( 26 ) / 66 एल० 
लिमिटेड , बीकानेर से सम्बद्ध आर - 1 तारीख 27 - 6 
नियोजक और उनके कर्मकार । 1966 
3. मैमर्स बीकानेर जिप्सम्स संख्या 24 ( 33 ) / 87 
लिमिटेड, बीकानेर से सम्बद्ध एल० मार - 1 तारीख 
नियोजक और उनके कर्मकार । 15 - 12 - 1967 


Particulars of Miscellaneous Cases under Section 33 (2 ) (b ) of the 
-Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 . 


1 . 18 - 1- 1969 


. 


M s. Bikaner Gypsum Vs. ShriNathu 
Ltd ., Bikaner. 

Singh. 


4370 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II 


- 


12 


2 


17 . मैसर्स जयपुर मिनरल्स डेवेलप - एस - 29011 ( 9 ) / 71 
मेंट सिडकेट , लिमिटेड , जयपुर एल0 प्रार0 - 4, तारीख 
और उनके कर्मकार । 

11 - 5 - 1971 


18. मैसर्स बीकानेर जिप्सम लिमि - एल - 25011 ( 3 )/ 71 
टेड , बीकानेर और उनके कर्मकार । एल0 आर0 - 4, तारीख 

23 - 7 - 1971 


19. राजस्थान उडोमोले पावर प्रा - एल0- 29011 ( 25 )/ 71 
जेक्ट, कोटा और उनके कर्मकार । एल0 आर0 - 4, तारीख 

31 - 8 - 1971 


20. टंगस्टन परियोजना खेती की संख्या 10 ( 47 ) / 70 - एल0 
भाखरीदेगाना और उनके कर्मकार । प्रार0 - 4 , तारीख 

31 - 8 - 1971 


21. वैस्ट साखात लेबर कंट्रैक्टर एल - 29012 ( 26 ) / 71 
को - आपरेटिव सोसायटी सुखात , एल0 आर0 - 4, तारीख 
२ कोटा और उनके कर्मकार । 25 - 10 - 1971 


4. मैसर्स बीकानेर जिप्सम्स संख्या 24 ( 35) / 87 
लिमिटेड, बीकानेर से सम्बद्ध एल0 प्रार0 - 1 तारीख 
नियोजक और उनके कर्मकार । 18 - 12 - 1967 
5. मैसर्स जयपुर उद्योग लिमि - संख्या 36( 33)/ 69 
टेउ, सवाई माधोपुर और उन के एल0 पार0- 4, तारीख 
कर्मकार । 

27 - 10 - 1969 
8. मैसर्स भीलवाड़ा एण्ड कम्पनी, संख्या 24 ( 62 ) / 69 
भीलवाड़ा और उनके कर्मकार । एल0 आर0- 4, तारीख 

12 - 11 - 1969 
7. मैसर्स भीलवाड़ा एण्ड कम्पनी , संख्या 24 ( 63)/ 69 
भीलवाड़ा और उनके कर्मकार । एल0 प्रार0 - 4, तारीख 

12 - 11 - 1969 
8. मैसर्स भीलवाड़ा एए3 कम्पनी, संख्या 24 ( 36) / 89 
भीलवाड़ा और उनके कर्मकार । एल0 पार0 - 4, तारीख 

___ 12 - 11 - 1969 
9. मैसर्स जयपुर मिनरल्स डेंव- संख्या 36( 41 ) / 69 
लपमेंट सिंडीकेट , लिमिटेड , एल0 प्रार0- 4, सारीख 

अयपुर और उनके कर्मकार । 25 - 11 - 1969 
10. मैसर्स अयपुर उद्योग लिमिटेड संख्या 12( 1) / 70 
____ सवाई माधोपुर और उनके एल 0 आर0 - 4, तारीख 
कर्मकार । 

2 - 2 - 1970 
11. मैसर्स बीकानेर जिप्सम लि0, संख्या 24( 77 ) / 89 
बीकानेर और उनके कर्मकार । एल0 मार - 4, तारीख 

28 - 3 - 1970 
12. मैसर्स बीकानेर जिप्सम लि0, संख्या 30 ( 3 ) / 70 
बीकानेर और उनके कर्मकार । एल0 प्रार0 - 4, तारीख 

12-05 - 1970 
13. मोहम्मद एण्ड सन्स जिप्सम संख्या 24 ( 76 ) / 89 . 

कंट्रेक्टर्स , जोधपुर और उनके कर्म - एल0 पार0 - 4, तारीख 
कार । 

30 - 9 - 1970 
14. श्री अम्बुल करीम , स्टोन संख्या 12( 25) / 70 
कट्रैक्टर, मोदक स्टोर कोटा और एल0 पार0 - 4, तारीख 
उनके कर्मकार । 

27 - 11 - 1970 
15. मैसर्स बीकानेर जिप्सम लिमि - संख्या 30 ( 7 )/ 70 
टेड , बीकानेर और उनके कर्मकार । एल0 आर0 - 4 , तारीख 

19 - 2 - 1971 


22. श्री सुल्तान अख्तयार माइन एल - 29012 ( 28 )/ 71 

मोनर साथुलखेदी न्यु विलेज , एल0 प्रार0 - 4, तारीख 
रामागंज मंडी और उनके कर्मकार । 20 - 10 - 1971 


23. मैसर्स जयपुर मिनरल्स डेवेलप - एल - 29012 ( 21 )/ 71 
मेंट सिंडीकेट , लिमिटेड , जयपुर एल0 पार0 - 4, तारीख 
और उनके कर्मकार । 

11 - 11 - 1971 


24. पैस्टर्न बंगाल कोल फील्डस एल - 29011/ 40 / 71 
लिमिटेड , खेतड़ी कापर प्राजेक्ट , एल0 आर0 - 4, तारीख 
खेतड़ी नगर और उनके कर्मकार । 14 - 12- 1971 


25. मोहम्मद एण्ड सन्स , जिप्सम 
कंट्रेक्टर, नागपुर और उनके 
कर्मकार । 


एल0- 25012 ( 2) / 71 
एल0 पार0 - 4, तारीख 
28- 12 - 1971 


26. टंगस्टन माइन प्रांजेक्ट, देगाना एल - 29012 ( 6 ) / 71 
और उनके कर्मकार । 

एल 0 प्रार0 - 4, तारीख 
31 - 12 - 1971 


16. मैसर्स सुल्तान अक्तयार अनवर एल - 29012 ( 3 ) / 71 
स्टोन लिमिटेड स्टोन माइन , एल0 आर0 - 4, तारीख 
रामगंज मण्डी और उनके 6 - 4 - 71 
कर्मकार । 


27. मैमर्स जयपुर मिनरल्स डेवे- संख्या 24 ( 1 )/ 67 

लपमेन्ट सिंडीकेट प्राइवेट लिमि - एल0 प्रार0 - 1 , तारीख 
टेड, जयपुर और उनके कर्मकार । 21 - 10 - 1967 


SEC. 3di ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4371 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 की धारा 33-2 के 

अधीन प्रौद्योगिक अधिकरण , राजस्थान , जयपुर 
के समक्ष लम्बित आवेदन पत्रों ।शिकायतों का ब्यौरा । 


S. O . 2994 , Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the management of Last 
Bhuggatulh Colliery of Messrs Bharat Coking Coal 
Limited , Post Ollice Jhuria , District Dhanbad and their 
workmen in respect of the matters specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas, the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 (14 of 1947 ), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudica 
tion to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
( No. 1 ), Dhanbad, constituted under section ZA of the 
said Act . 


क्रमांक आवेदन - पत्र 

की तारीख 


विवाद के पक्षकार 
प्रावेदक विरोधी पक्ष 


SCHEDULE 
1 . " Whether the action of the management of East 

Bhuggatdih Colliery of Messrs Bharat Coking 
Coal Limited , Post Onice Jnaria , District Dhan 
bad in stopping from work for Shri Kudrat 
Mian , Winuing Engine Khalasi with effect from 
the 17th October, 1971 is justified ? If not to 
what relief the said workman is entitled ?” 


1 9-- 5 - 69 श्री रामनाथ सिंह बनाम जयपुर उद्योग 

लिमिटेड , सवाई 

माधोपुर । 
2 7. 3-- 70 श्रीमातादीन सिंह बनाम यथोक्त ---- 
3 7--12 - 70 श्री रमजान बनाम मोहम्मद एण्ड 

संस , जिप्सम 
कंट्रैक्टर, जोध 

पुर । 
4 14- 6 - 71 श्री सुखदेव सिंह बनाम फालोदी क्वारीं 

जयपुर उद्योग 
लिमिटेड, सवाई 

माधोपुर । 
5 1 - 6 - 71 श्री सुरजीत सिंह बनाम - यथोक्त - - 
6 14-- 6 - 71 श्री गंगोलिया बनाम -यथोक्त 
7 14 - 6 - 71 श्री देवा बनाम - यथोक्त - - 
8 14 - 6 : 71 श्री देवी राम बनाम - यथोक्त 


2 . “ Whether the action of the management of East 

Bhuggatdih Colliery of Mosers Bharat Coking 
Coal Limited , Post Office Jharia, District Dnan 
bad in stopping from work to Shri Shankar 
Ram General Mazdoor with ellect from the 1st 
October , 1971 1s justified ? If not to what relief 
is the said workman entitled ? " 


[ No. L / 2012/ 16 / 72- LRII . ] 


का० प्रा० 2994. - - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है 
कि इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में मैसर्स 
भारत कोकिग कोल लिमिटेड की ईस्ट भुगगतडीह कोलियरी , 
डाकघर झरिया , जिला धनबाद के प्रबन्ध से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों 
और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक औद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान 


और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन 
के लिए निर्देशित करता वांछनीय समझती है ; 


प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 की धारा 33( 2) ( ख ) । 

के अधीन विविध मामलों का ब्यौरा 


1 18- 1 - 69 मैसर्स बीकानेर बनाम श्री नत्थु सिंह 

जिप्सम लिमिटेड , 
बीकानेर । 


__ अतः , अब , प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 
का 14 ) की धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( ध ) द्वारा 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा 
उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7- क के अधीन गठित 
प्रौद्योगिक अधिकरण , (संख्या 1 ) धनबाद को न्यायनिर्णयन 
के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 


29- 3 - 70 


मैसर्स जयपुर बनाम श्री रामेश्वर 
उद्योग लिमिटेड , 
सवाई माभोपुर । 

यथोक्त - - बनाम श्री चिरंजी लाल 


3 


9 


- 3 - 70 


अनुसूची 
1. " क्या मैसर्स भारत कोकिंग कोल लिमिटेड की ईस्ट 
भुगगतडीह कोलियरी, डाकघर झरिया , जिला धनबाद के प्रबन्ध 
मण्डल की श्री कुदरत मियाँ, वाइडिंग इंजन खलासी को , 17 
अक्तूबर , 1971 से काम करने से रोकने की कार्यवाही न्यायोचित 
है ? यदि नहीं , तो उक्त कर्मकार किस अनुतोष का हकदार 


[ सं० एल-29011( 30)/ 72- एल० प्रार० 4] 


4372 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 

| PART JI -- 
न 
2. " क्या मैसर्स भारत कोकिंग कोल लिमिटेड की ईस्ट 

अनुसूची 
भगवतीह कोलियरी, डाकघर- झरिया , जिला धनबाद के प्रबन्ध 

" क्या मैमर्स राज फ्लोरिग स्टोन कंपनी , रामगंज मण्डी के 
मण्डल की , श्री शंकर राम , सामान्य मजदूर को , 31 अक्तूबर , 

प्रबंधतंत्र को , उनकी सातालखेडी लाइम स्टोन क्वारी में नियुक्त 
1971 से काम करने से रोकने की कार्यवाही न्यायोचित है ? यदि 

श्रीमती भूरी सेवाराम , महिला मजदूर के धारणाधिकार को 4 जन 
महीं, तो उक्त कर्मकार किस अनुतोष का हकदार है ? " 

वरी, 1971 से समाप्त करना और बाद में उसको क्वारी की बदली 

सूची में न रखना न्यायोचित था ? यदि नही, तो वह किस अनुतोष 
[ सं० एल- 2012/ 16/ 72- एल० आर०- 2 ] 

की हकदार है । 

[ संख्या एल 29012 ( 10 ) / 72-- एल०आर०- 4 ] 
New Delhi, the 24th June 1972 
S. O . 2995 ... - Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the management of Satalkhedi 

New Delhi, the 26th June 1972 
Lime Stone Quarray of M / s . Raj Flooring Stone Com 
pany, Ramgunjjmandi and their workmen in respect 

S. O . 2996. - - Whereas the Central Government is of 
of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 

employers in relation to the management of North 
And whereas the Central Government considers it Jhagrakhand Colliery of Messrs Jhagrakhand Collieries 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 

( Private ) Limited , Post Office Jhagrakhand Colliery , 

District Surguja , and their workmen in respect of the 
Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by matters specified in the Schedule hcreto annexed ; 
section 7A and clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 (14 of 1947 ) , 

And whereas the Central Government considers it , 
the Central Government hereby constitutes an Indus 

desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 
trial Tribunal with Shri Mohd. Yaqoob Khan as Presi 
ding Officer with headquarters at Jalpur and refers the 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
sald dispute for adjudication to the said Industrial 

by clause ( d ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the 
Tribunal. 

Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 (14 of 1947 ) , the Central 
SCHEDULE 

Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudica 

tion to the Central Governinent Industrial Tribunal, 
" Whether the management of Messrs Raj Flooring Jabalpur, constituted under seclion 7A of the said Act. 

Stone Company, Ramgunjmandi ( District 
Kota ) was justified in terminating the lien of 

SCHEDULE 
Shrimati Bhuri Sewaram , Female Mazdoor, 
employed in their Satalkhedi Lime Stone 
Quarry , with effect from 4th January , 1971 and 

" Whether the management of North Jhagrakhand 

Colliery of 
the 

Messrs Jhagrakhand 
subsequently not retaining her name on 

Collierles 
( Private) Limited , Post 
If not to what 
badll list of the Quarry ? 

Office Jhagrakhand 

Colliery , District Surguja ( Madhya Pradesh) , 
relief is she entitled . 

was justified in terminating the services of 

Shri N . M . Kar , Surveyor , with effect from the 
[ No . L - 29012 ( 10 ) / 72 -LR -IV .] 

10th November , 1970 ? If not , to what relief 
is the workman entitled ? " 

___ [ No. L / 22012 / 9 / 72- LRII . ] 
नई दिल्ली , 24 जून , 1972 

नई दिल्ली , 26 जून, 1972 
का० प्रा० 2995 -~ यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे 

का० आ० 2696. -- यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है 
उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिदिष्ट विषयो के बारे मे मसस राज पनो 

की इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में मैसर्स 

झगरा खण्ड कोलियरी ( प्राईवेट ) लिमिटेड की नार्थ झगरा 
मंडी के प्रबंध से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक 

खण्ड कोलियरी, डाकघर झगराखण्ड कोलियरी, जिला सरगुजा 
प्रौद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 

के प्रबन्ध से सम्बन्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक 
और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन 

प्रौधोगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 
के लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय समझती है ; 

पौर यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन 

के लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय समझती है ; 
प्रतः अब, औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 
का 14) की धारा 7 - क पीर धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के 

अतः, अब , प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 
खंड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार का 14 ) की धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त 
एतदद्वारा एक प्रौद्योगिक प्रधिकरण गठिन करती है जिसके पीठा शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा उक्त 
सीन अधिकारी श्री मुहम्मद याकूब खान प्रोद्योगिक प्रधिकरण होंगे , विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7-क के अधीन गठित 
जिनका मुख्यालय जयपुर होगा और उक्त विवाद को उक्त प्रौद्योगिक केन्द्रीय सरकार औद्योगिक अधिकरण , जबलपुर को न्यायनिर्णयन 
अधिकरण , का न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 

के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 


SEC . 3( ) ; 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4373 


Name 


Designation 


Stopped from 


No . 


अनुसूची 
" क्या मैसर्स झगराखण्ड कोलियरीज ( प्राइवेट ) लिमिटेड 
की नार्थ झगराखण्ड कोलियरी , डाकघर- झगरा खण्ड कोलियरी , 
जिला सरगुजा ( मध्य प्रदेश ) के प्रबन्धमण्डल का , 10 नवम्बर 
1970 से श्री एन० एम० कार, सर्वेक्षक की सेवात्रों को समाप्त 
करना न्यायोचित था ? यदि नहीं , तो कर्मकार किस अनुतोष 
#T OTT ? " 


8 - 12 - 1971 

Do . 
Do. 
Do . 
Do. 


Do 


[ PEUT 59 - 22012 / 9/ 72- TETO 9770 - 2 ] 


Do. 


Do . 


Do. 
Do. 


Do. 


Do . 


Do. 
Do. 


Do. 


New Delhi, the 28th June 1972 
S . O . 2997 . - Whereas the Central Governmen 
is of opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers inrelation to the managément of Sri Amritnagrar 
Selected Colliery, Post Office Raniganj, District Burdwan and 
their workmen in respect ofth matters spacified in the Schedule 
hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exzrcise of the powers conferred 
by clause (d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section to of the Industrial 
Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby 
refers the said dispute for adjud cation to the Central Govern 
ment Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , constituted under section 
7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the management of Sri Amritnagar Selected 
Colliery , Post Office Raniganj, District Burdwan , are justified 
in refuging employment to 124 workmen , whose names and 
designations are given in the Annexure , from the dates indicated 
against each ? If not, to what relief are these workmen 
entitled ? 

ANNEXURE TO SCHEDULE 


Do . 
Do. 
Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do . 
Do. 


Do. 


Do. 
Do. 


23 Ananda Routh . Roof Dreser 
24 Rameswar Routh . Banksman 
25 Satya Narain Yadav Engine Khilasi 
26 Baban Yadav . . Fireman 
27 Kanswar Nunia Firenin 
28 Ranswar Saw 

Roof Dresser 
29 Sitaram Kahar 07- setter 
30 Dhaneswar Ram Loa ler 
31 Branh tew Ram . . Bank nın 
32 Rin “atan Prasai . Banksmın 
33 Cunfrika Bhagat . S urfac ; Trannar 
34 Janardhan Singh . Leader 
35 Dina Nath Sonar Pump Khalasi 
36 Bharath Lal Sonar . Boiler Khalasi 
37 Sambhi Prasad . Surface Trammer 
38 Kishori Sonar . . Loader 
39 Ramrith Singh Roof Dresser 
40 Ramjatan Singh . . Loader 
41 Dyrup Narain Singh . Loader 
42 Ran Sahai Saw , Roof Dresser 
43 Ran thaniMahato . Onsetter 
44 Ramıwatar Mahato . Surface Haulage 

Khalasi 
45 Bindeswar Mahato . Banksman 
46 Manial Singh 

Loader 
47 Ganga Kurmi . . Banksman 
48 Jagai Krirmi . . Eng ne Khalasi 
49 Syambihari Singh . Onsetter 
50 Jhagra Ahir 

Banksman 
51 Jabbar Mia . . Loader 
52 Teju Mia . Roof Dresser 
53 Jumman Mia . . Chain Kutter 
54 Khalil Mia . . Chain Kutter 1 
55 Raghu Paswan . Surface Trammer 
56 Mahesh Prasad . . Surface Trammer 
57 Hardew Singh . Surface Trammer 
58 BedeshiMonadal Engine Khalasi 
59 Ramlal Pashi . . Roof Dresser 
60 RamlalMahato RoofDresser 
61 Badri Saw 

RoofDresser 
62 Samahru Singh Roof Dresser 
63 Pachu Singh . Tigger Khalasi 
64. Mathura Prasad Tigger Khalasi 
65 Gouul Saw . . Driller 
66 Bhukhal Das . . RoofDresser 
67 Sarju Paswan . Loader 
68 Abdhesh Singh . Explosive Carrier 
69 Raghu Nath Mahato Loader 
70 Sadhu Saw . Machine Helper 
71. Joginder Saw . . Loader 
72 Jugal Saw , , Loader 
73 Ramjit Tewary Drill Man 
74 Rahey Bauri . . Banksman 


Do, 


Do, 
Do. 


Name 


Designation 


No . 


Stopped 

from 


Do . 
Do. 


Do. ! ! 
D0, 7 
Do . 


Do. 


3 - 12 - 71 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do . 
Do. 
Do: 
Do, 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 
Do . 


Do. 


Do. 
Do . 


Do . 


I Sitaram Singh 

Overman 
2 Manabir Singh . . Machine Driver 
3 Babulal Singh . Loader : 
4 Ambika Prasai . Timber Mistry 
5 Sarju Shaw . . . Driller 
6 Biseswar Mahato . Surface Trammer 
7 Bhuneswar Yalır Loader 
8 Titu Das . Loader 
9 Vdai Mahato . . Machine Cooly 
IO Nageswar Mahato . Loader 
II Khemlal Mahato Loaler 
12 Baldew Mahato . Loader 
13 Tetor Prosai . Loader 
14 Jugeswar Ram Loader 
15 Gonori Singh . Expi Carrier 
16 Mungeswar Ram . Loader 
17 Ramlal Yadav . Loader 
18 Bujharath Harijan . Loader 
19 Ramdhari Mauah . Loader 
20 Matho Das . . Loa ler 
21 Bhagu Saw . . Loader 
22 Chandra Sekhar Trammer 

Biswakarama 


Do . 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 
Do. 
3 - 12 - 1971 

Do. 
4 -12 - 1971 
4 - 12 - 1971 

5 - 12 - 1971 
8 - 12 - 1971 

Do . 
Do. 
Do, 
Do. 
Do. 


Do. 


Do . 


Do . 


Do. 


Do . 


Do. 
Do. 


4374 


[PART II — 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 
: - - - 

- - - - - 


YER 


s . 


Nane 


Designation 


Stopped 

from 


S . 


Name 


Designation 


Stopped 

from 


No. 


No . 


- - - 


- - 


8 - 12 1971 

Do, 
Do. 
Do, 
Do, 


8 - 12 - 1971 
9 - 12- 1971 


Do . 


Do . 
Do , 


103 Mahajan Kewat Leader 
104 Jamuna Prasad Roof Dregger 
105 Balju Sonar . Bankaman 
106 Ramdew Singh , . Chaprasi 
107 Gopal Biswakarama , U . G , Trammer 
108 Antu Bhuia , Picking Cooly 
109 Munulal Napit . Roof Dresser 
IIO Shibu Ram , . Fitter Mistry 
III Kamcsar Singh . Roof Dregger 
112 Chatu Pashi , Loader 


IO - 12 - 1971 

Do, 
Do. 

Do. 
II- 12 - 1971 
12 - 12 - 1971 


Do . 
Do. 


Do. 


Do . 


Do . 


Do. 


28 - 12 - 1971 
31- 12 - 1971 


Do . 


Do. 


75 Mukgudan Das Eng , Khalasi 
76 Ramoswur Mahato . Loader 
77 Ramu Mahato . . Loader 
78 Budhuiu Roura Loader 

Lour 
80 Dashi Kamin . . Picking Kamin 
81 BudhniKamin Picking Kamin 
82 Lakhi Kamin . Picking Kamin 
83 Jogo Kole . Picking Cooly 
84 Gouri Ram , , Surfaco Trammer 
85 Jugeswar Prasad , RoofDroser 
86 Gun licha Pruthan . Wago ı Loader 
87 Brindresh Saw 
88 Soharari Saw , . Loader 
89 MuniMahato . . Loner 
90 Gobindur Sui . . Wagon Loader 
91 Jahar Malato , , Loader 
92 Bhutu Kolc , Roof Dresser 
93 Jamaluddin Miu . Roof Dresser 
94 SahadmlMiu . . C . C . M . Driver 
95 Baldeb Kolo . Rool Dresser 
96 Pairoo Mia , . Roof Dresser 
97 Tarapada Dewashi . Pump Khalashi 
98 Kanaih Mallick . Loader 
199 Kulia Saw . . Loader 
100 Kesho Goura . . Loader 
101 Kaloo Parlkasha . Loader 
102 Dibakar Bisai . Loader 


Do. 
Do . 
Do, 
Do. 


114 Nawringi Singh Filer Helper 
115 Dagarath Biswakarma Trammer 
116 Ramashis Harijan . Loader 
117 Sita Mahato . . Roof Dresser 
118 Rambinai Singh Loader 
119 Ramegwar Singh Eng. Khalasi 
120 BeniMahato . . Roof Dresser 
121 Lalan Prasad , . Driller 
122 Shiv Prasad Nunia Banksman 
123 Ramchanda Mahato Loader 
124. Nitai Routh . . Boiler Khalasi 


Do . 
Do. 
Do . 
Do . 
Do. 
Do . 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 


12 - 1 - 1972 
27 - 9 - 1971 

4- 12 - 1971 
4 - 12 - 1971 
20 - 12 - 1971 
4 - 12 - 1971 
4 - 12- 1971 
4 - 12 - 1971 
C - 12 - 1971 
1 - 12 - 1971 " 


Do . 


[No, L / 19012 /36 /72-LRII.) 


SEC . 3 ( 1 ) ]] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4375 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


नई दिल्ली, 28 जून , 1972 
का० प्रा० 2 99 5. -- यतः केन्द्रीय परकार को गय है कि इससे उमाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में श्री अमृतनगर सिलेक्टड 
कोलियरी, डाकघर रागीगंज जिला बर्दवान के प्रबन्ध - मण्डल से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक औद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान 


और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय समझती है ; 

अतः अब , प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए, केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा उक्त 
प्रौद्योगिक प्रधिकरण , कलकत्ता को न्यायनिणयन के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 


अनुसूची 
" क्या श्री अमतनगर सिलेक्टेड कोलिवरी डाकबर गगीगेज , जिला बर्दवान के प्रबन्धमण्डल का , उन 124 कर्मकारों को , जिनके नाम व 
पदनाम उपाबंध में दिए गए हैं , उनके सामने दी गई तारीखों से काम न देना न्यायोचित है यदि नही, तो ये कर्मकार किस अगतोष के हकदार हैं 


- अनुसूची का उपाबन्ध 


क्रमांक 


नाम 


पदनाम 


कम से रोका गया 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


1 सीताराम सिंह 
2 मनबीर सिंह . 
3 बाबुलाल सिंह 
4 अम्बिका प्रसाद 
5 सरजु शाव . 
6 विशेश्वर महतो 
7 मुनीश्वर यादव 
8 टीटू दास . 
9 उदय महतो . 
10 नागेश्वर महतो 
11 नेमलाल महतो . 
12 बलदेव महतो . 
13 टटोर प्रसाद . 
14 जगेश्वर राम . 
15 गनोरी सिंह . 
16 मंगेश्वर राम . 
17 रामलाल यादव 
18 भारथ हरिजन 
19 रामधारी मल्लाह 


भोवरमैन 
मशीन ड्राईवर 
लोडर 
टिम्बर मिस्तरी 
ड्रिलर 
सफस ट्रेमर 
लोडर 
लोडर 
मणीन कुली 
लोडर 
लोडर 
लोडर 
लोडर 
लोडर 
एक्सपलोसिव कैरियर 
लोडर 
लोडर 

लोडर 
, लोडर 


3 - 12 - 71 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
वथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
4-- 12 - 1971 


5 - 12 - 1971 
8 -- 12- -1971 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 


. 


. 


4376 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART IF 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


20 माधो पास 
21 भुगु साब . . 
22 चन्द्र शेखर बिस्वकर्मा . 
23 मानन्द राउथ 
24 रामेश्वर राउथ 
25 सस्य नारावण यावष 
26 बबन यादव . 
27 कामेश्वर नुनिया 
28 रामेश्वर साव . 
29 सीतारम कहार 
30 धनेश्वर राम . 
31 प्रहमदेव राम . 
32 रामरतन प्रसाद 
33 चन्द्रिका भगत 
34 जनार्धन सिंह 
35 दीना नाथ सुनार 
36 भारत लाल सुनार 
37 शम्भु प्रसाद . 
38 किशोरी सुनार 
39 रामीरथ सिंह . 
40 रामजतन सिंह 
41 ध्रव नारायण सिंह 
42 राम सहाय साब 
43 रामधगी महतो . 
44 रामावतार महतो 
45 बिन्देश्वर महतो 
46 मण्डल सिंह 
47 गंगा कुर्मी . . 
48 जगाई कुर्मी . . 
49 श्याम बिहारी सिंह . 
50 झगरा पहीर . 
51 जब्बर मियां . 
52 तेजु मियां . 
53 जुम्मन मियां . 
54 खलील मियां . 
55 रघ, पासवान . 


लोडर 
लोडर 
ट्रैमर 
रूफ सर . 
बैंकस्मैन 
इजन खलासी 
फायरमैन 
फायरमैन 
रूफ ड्रेसर 
आन - सैटर 

लोडर 
. बैंकस्मैन 

बैंकस्मैन 
सर्फेस ट्रैमर 
लोडर 
पम्प खलासी 
बेलर खलामी 
सफेंस द्वैमर 

लोडर 
. रूफ ट्रैमर 

लोडर 
लोडर 
रूफ मर 
मान- सटर 
सफेंस हालेज खलासी 

बक्समैन 
. लोडर 

बैंक्समैन 
इंजन खलासी 

आन -सेटर 
वैक्समैन 
लोडर 

रूफ ड्रेसर 
. चेन कट्टर 

बेन कट्टर 
. सर्फेस ट्रैमर 


8 - 12 - 1971 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्स 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
वथोक्त 
यथोषत 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोफ्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
मथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यषोस्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 


यथोक्त 


यथोक्त 


- - 


SEC. 3 (ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4377 


( 1) 


( 2 ) 


( 3) 


( 4 ) 


. 


8 - 12 - 1971 
यथोक्त 


यथोक्त 


56 महेज प्रसाद . 
57 हरदेव सिंह . 
58 बदेशी मोनाडल 
59 रामलाल पाशी 
60 रामलाल महतो 
61 जबद्री माब . 
62 समाहरु सिंह . 
63 पषु सिंह . 
64 मथुरा प्रसाद . 
65 गोकुल साब . 
66 भुखल दाम 
67 सरजु पासवान 
68 अवधेश सिंह . 
69 रघु नाथ महतो 
70 साधू साब . 
71 जोगिन्दर साब 
72 जुगल साब . 
73 रामजीत तिवारी 
74 राधे बाऊरी . 
75 मुकसूदन दास 
76 रामेश्वर महतो 


यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 


. सर्फेम ट्रैमर 

सर्फेस ट्रम्मर 
इंजन खलासी 
रूफ ड्रेसर 
रूफ ड्रेसर 
रूफ ईसर 
रूफ ड्रेसर 
तिग्गर खलासी 
तिग्गर खलासी 
ड्रिलर 
रूफ ड्रेसर 
लोडर 
एक्सपलोसिव कैरियर 

लोडर 
___ मशीन हैल्पर 

लोडर 
लोडर 
ड्रिलमैन 
बैंकस्मन 
इंजन खलासी 
लोडर 
लोडर 
लोडर 
लोडर 
पिकिंग कमीन 
पिकिंग कमीन 
पिकिंग कमीन 

पिकिंग कुली 
___ सर्फेस ट्रैमर 
. रूफ ड्रेसर 

वैगन लोडर 
लोडर 
लोडर 
लोडर 
वैगन लोहै 
लोडर 


78 बुधि प्रारोउरा 
79 मंगुरु दास 
80 दाशी कमीन .. 
81 बुधनी कमीन . 
82 लखी कमीन 
83 जोगो कोले . 
84 गौरी राम . 
85 जुगेश्वर प्रसाद 
86 गुंदिचा प्रधान 
87 बिन्देश साब . 
88 सोहारे साब . 
89 मुनी महतो . 
90 गोविन्दर सुई 
91 जहार महतो . 


यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्न 
गथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
ययोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
ययोक्त 
यथोक्त 


. 


4378 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21. 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


(PART 11 — 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


- - - - 


. 


92 भुटू कोले . 
93 जमालुद्दीन मियां 
94 सहादुल मियां . 
95 बल्देब कोले 
96 पाईरू मियां . 
97 तारापदा देवाशी 
98 कनेह मलिक 
99 कुलिया साब . 
100 के शो गोउरा . 
101 कालू पारिकाशा 
102 दिबाकर बिमाई 
103 महाजन केवट 
104 जमुना प्रसाद 
105 बैजू सुनार . 
106 रामदेव सिंह . 
107 गोपाल बिश्वकर्मा 
108 अन्तु भुईया . 
109 मुन्नूलाल नापीत 
110 शिबु राम . 
111 कामेश्वर सिंह 
112 चातु पाशी 
113 रामदेव यादव 
114 नवरंगी सिंह . 
115 दशरथ विश्वकर्मा 
116 रामाशीष हरिजन 
117 सीता महतो 
118 राम बिनाई सिंह 
119 रामेश्वर सिंह 
120 बेनी महतो 
121 लल्लन प्रसाद 
122 शिव प्रसाद ननिया 
123 रामचन्द्र महतो 
124 निते रोउथ . 


• रूफ ड्रेसर 

8 - 12 - 1971 
रूफ है सर 

यथोक्त 
सी० सी० एम० ड्राईवर यथोक्त 
कक ड्रसर 

यथोक्त 
रूफ ड्रेसर 

यथोक्त 
पम्प खलासी 

यथोक्त 
लोडर 

यथोक्त 
लोडर 

यथोक्त 
लोडर 

यथोक्त 
लोडर 

ययोक्त 
लोडर 

ययोक्न 
लोटर 

ययोक्त 
रूफ हैमर 

9 -- 12 - 1971 
बैक्स मैन 

यथोक्त 
चपरासी 

10 - 12 - 1971 
. यू०जी० ट्रैमर 

यथोक्त 
पिकिंग कुली 

यथोक्त 
. रूफ ईसर 

यथोक्त 
फिटर मिस्तरी 

11 - 12 - 1971 
रूफ ईसर 

12- 12- 1971 
लोडर 

यथोक्त 
लूजमैन 

28 - 12- 1971 
फिटर हैल्पर 

31 - 12 - 1971 

12- 1 - 1972 
लोडर 

27 - 9 - 1971 
रूफ ईसर 

4 - 12 - 1971 
लोडर 

4 - 12 - 1971 
इंजन खलासी 

20- 12 - 1971 
. रूफ ड्रेसर 

4-- 12 - 1971 
. ट्रिलर 

4 - 12 - 9171 
. बैंक्समैन 

4-- 12 - 1971 
लोडर 

8 - 12- 1971 
बायलर खलासी 

1 - 12 - 1971 " 


[ सं० पल - 19112/ 36/ 72- एल० पार० - 2 ] 


SEC. 3di) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4379 


New Delhi, the 30th June 1972 


S. O . 2998. -. - Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the management of Madhujore 
Colllery of Messrs The Madhujore Coal Company ( Pri 
vate ) Limited Post Office Kajoragram , District Burdwan 
and their workmen in respect of the matters specified 
in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


S . O . 2999 , – Whereas the Central Government is op 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the management of Messrs 
Kalyanpur Lime and Cement Works Limited , Banjari 
(Shahabad ) and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


And, whereas , the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the sald dispute for adjudication ; 


Now , therefore, in cxercise of the powers conferred 
by clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central 
Government her by refers the said dispute for adjudica 
tion to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
Calcutta , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 


___ And , whereas , the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exerciso of the powers conferred 
by clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 (14 of 1947 ), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudica 
tion to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
( No. 2 ) Dhanbad constituted under section 7A of the 
sald Act. 

SCHEDULE 
" I. Whether the action of the management of 

Kalyanpur Lime Stone Quarry Post Once 
Banjari (Shahabad ) in not granting leave for 
the period commencing from 31st March 1971 
and ending with 3rd April 1971 to their work 
man Shri Gopichand Mallah is justifled ? If not, 
to what relief is the said workman entitled ? 


SCHEDULE 


" Whether the management of Madhujore Colliery 

of Messrs The Madhujore Coal Company (Pri 
vate ) Limited , Post Office Kajoragram, District 
Burdwan is justified in dismissing Shri Bal 
kishun Ahir , Trammer with effect from the 13th 
November, 1971 ? If not , to what relief the 
workman is entitled ? " 


[ No. L / 19012/ 20 / 72-LRII.] 


II. Whether the action of the said management in 

refusing work to the said workman with effect 
from 5th April 1971 to 13th April, 1971 1s 
Justifed ? If not. to what relief if any is the 
said workman entitled ? " 

___ [ No . L- 29012 (13) / 72-LR.IV .] 
नई दिल्ली, 30 जून , 1972 


का० प्रा० 29 98 - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है 
कि इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में मैसर्स 
घी मधुजोरे कोल कम्पनी( प्राइवेट लिमिटेड, की मधुजोरे कोलियरी 
डाकघर कजोरा ग्राम , जिला बर्दवान के , प्रबन्ध मंडल से सम्बद्ध 
नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक प्रौद्योगिक विवाद 
विद्यमान है । 


का ० प्रा० 2999 - - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार की गय है 
कि इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिदिष्ट विषयों के बारे में 
मैसर्स कल्याणपूर लाईम एण्ड सीमेण्ट वक्स लिमिटेड , बंजारी 
( शाहाबाद ) के प्रबन्ध से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों 
के बीच एक प्रौद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 


और यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन 
के लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय समझती है ; 


अतः, अब , प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 
का 14 ) की धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा 
उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7-क के अधीन गठित 
केन्द्रीय सरकार औद्योगिक प्राधिकरण , कलकत्ता को न्यायनिर्णयन 
के लिए निशित करती है । 


और यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्षयन 
के लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय समझती है ; 

अतः, अब , प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 
का 14 ) की धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा 
उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7 क के अधीन गठित 
केन्द्रीय सरकार प्रौद्योगिक अधिकरण , ( संख्या 2 ) धनबाद को 
म्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 


अनुसूची 
" क्या मैसर्स दी मधुजोरे कोल कम्पनी ( प्राईवेट )लिमिटेड 
की मधुजोरे कोलियरी, डाकघर कजोराग्राम , जिला बदवान 
के प्रबन्ध रण्डल का , 13 नवम्बर , 1971 से श्री बालकिशन 
अहीर, ट्रैपर को पदच्यत करना न्यायोचित है ? यदि नहीं , 
तो कर्मकार किस अनुतोष का हकदार है ? " 


अनुसूची 
" 1. क्या मैसर्स कल्याणपुर लाईम स्टोन क्वारि, डाकघर 

बजारी ( शाहाबाद ) के प्रबन्धमण्डल की उनके 
कर्मकार " श्री गोपीचन्द मल्लाह को 31 मार्च, 
1971 से प्रारम्भ होने वाली और 3 अप्रैल , 
1971 को समाप्त होने वाली अवधि के लिए 
छठी मंजूर न करने की कार्यवाही न्यायोचित है ? 
यदि नहीं , तो उक्त कर्मकार किस अनुतोष का 
हकदार है ? 


[ सं० एल -1901 - 2/ 20/ 72--एल० प्रार०- 2) 


4380 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II 


2. क्या उक्त प्रबन्धमण्ल की उक्त कर्मकार को 


न देने की कार्यवाही न्यायोचित है ? यदि नहीं , 
तो उक्त कर्मकार किस अनुतोष का . यदि कोई हो , 
हकदार है ? " 
[ सं० एल - 29012( 13)/ 72- एल०आर० - 4 ] 


समाप्त करने की कार्रवाई न्यायोचित है ? यदि नहीं, तो कर्मकार 
किस अनुतोष का हकदार है ? " 

[ सं० एल०- 36012/ 3/ 72-पी एण्ड डी ] 

बी० शंकरालिंगम , अवर सचिव । 


New Delhi , the 19th July 1972 


$ . O . 3000 . — Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the management of Messrs 
Ivan Milutinovic Pim , Vasco da Gama (Goa ) and their 
workmen in respect of the matters specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas, the Central Government consi 
ders it desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudi 
cation ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers con 
ferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute 
for adjudication to the Central Government Industrial 
Tribunal, Bombay , constituted under section 7A of 
the said Act. 


SCHEDULE 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 
TOffice of the Chlet Labour Commissioner ( Contral) ] 
New Delhi, the 14th July 1972 

ORDERS 
$ . 0 . 3001. - Whereas an application has been made 
under section 19 ( b ) of the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965 
by Messrs Tandur and Nayandgi Stone Quarries Pvt. 
Ltd . ( employer) in relation to their establishments 
mentioned in the Schedule below for extension of the 
period for the payment of bonus to their employees for 
the accounting year ending on 30th September, 1971 . 

And whereas being satisfled that there are sufficient 
reasons to extend the time I have, in exercise of the 
powers conferred on me by the proviso to clause ( b ) 
of Section 19 of the said Act read with the notiAcation 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour 
and Employment No. WB. 20 (42 ) / 65 dated the 28th 
August, 1965, passed order on 3rd July , 1972 extending 
the period for payment of the said bonus by the said 
employer by three months ( 1. e . up to 31st August , 
1972 ) from the last date for payment of bonus under 
clause ( b ) of Section 19 of the Act. 

Now this is published for information of the employer 
and all the employees of the said establishment. 

THE SCHEDULE 
Name and address of 

Establishment ( s) 
__ the employer ( s ) 
M / s . Tandur and Navandgl 
Stone Quarries Pvt . Ltd ., 
6 - 1 - 1063 / B / 2, Raj Bhavan 
Road , Hyderabad-4 , A, P . 

[ No. BA-18 ( 10 ) / 72 -LS.I.] 
( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 
[ मुख्य श्रम प्रायुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) का कार्यालय 
नई दिल्ली , 14 जुलाई, 1972 

प्रादेश 
का० प्रा० 300 1. --- : मैसर्स तन्दूर और नवम्दगी स्टोन 
क्वारीज प्रा . लिमिटेड (नियोजक ) ने नीचे की अनुसूची में 
वणित अपने स्थापनों के सम्बन्ध में 30 - 9 - 71 को समाप्त 
होने वाले लेखा वर्ष के लिये अपने कर्मचारियों को बोनस के 


" Whether the action of Messrs Ivan Milutinovic 

p . m . Capital Dredging Contractors , Mormugao 
Harbour (Goa ) in terminating the services of 
the workman Shri R . Kuttan, Pillai Helper 
with effect from 26th April, 1972 , is justified ? 
If not, to what relief is the workman entitl . 
ed ? " 


[ No . L -36012 / 3 / 72 - P & D . ] 
V . SANKARALINGAM , Under Secy. 
नई दिल्ली , 19 जुलाई, 1972 
का० प्रा० 3000 --- यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि 
इम से उपायक अनसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में मैसर्स 
हवान मिलटिनोबिक पिम , वस्कोडिगामा , गोपा के प्रबन्धमण्डल 
से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक प्रौद्योगिक 
विवाद विद्यमान है ; 

और यतः, केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिणयन 
के लिए निशित करना वांछनीय समझती है ; 

प्रतः, अब, प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 
14 ) की धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा उक्त 
विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7-क के अधीन गठित केनीय 
मरकार औद्योगिक अधिकरण, मुम्बई को न्याय निर्णयन के लिए 
निर्देशित करती है । 


1965 की धारा 19 ( ख ) के अधीन आवेदन बोनस दिया है । 

और यतः यह समाधान हो जाने पर कि समय बढ़ाने के लिये 
पर्याप्त कारण है , मैंने भारत सरकार के श्रम और रोजगार मन्त्रा . 
लय की अधिसूचना सं० डब्ल्यू. बी - 20 ( 42 )/ 65 तारीख 
28 अगस्त , 1965 के माथ पठित उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 
19 के खण्ड ( ख ) के परन्तुक द्वारा मुझे प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हये 3 - 7 - 72 को उम्त नियोजक द्वारा उक्त बोनस के 
संदाय की कालावधि को अधिनियम की धारा 19 के खण्ड ( ख ) 
के अधीन बोनस के संदाय को अन्तिम तारीख से तीन महीने 
( अर्थात 31 - 8 - 72 तक ) बढ़ाने का आदेश दिया है : 

अब इसे उक्त स्थापन के नियोजक और सभी कमचारियों 
की सूचना के लिये प्रकाशित किया जाता है । 


अनुसूची 


" क्या मैसर्स इवान मिलटिनोविक -पिम -केपीटल इजिंग 
कान्टषटस , मारमुगालो हारबर ( गोपा ) की , 26 अप्रैल, 1972 
से अपने कर्मकार श्री पार० कुटन पिल्लई, हेल्पर, की सेवाओं का 


Sxc. 3(th 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4381 


अनुसूची 


स्थापन 


नियोजक / नियोजकों का नाम 

और पता 


खण्ड ( ख ) के परन्तुक द्वारा मुम्न प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हये 3 - 7 - 72 को उक्त नियोजक द्वारा उक्त बोनस संदाय की 
कालावधि को अधिनियम की धारा 19 के खंड ( ख ) के अधीन 
बोनस के संदाय की अन्तिम तारीख से तीन महीने ( अर्थात् 
31 - 8 - 72 तक ) बढ़ाने का आदेश द दिया है । 


मैसर्स तन्दूर और नवन्दगी स्टोन 

क्वारीस 6-- 1/ 1063/बी० / 2 
प्रा० लिमिटड, राजभवन रोड 
हैदराबाद - - 4 ( प्रा० प्र० ) 


अब इसे उक्त स्थापन के नियोजक और सभी कर्मचारियों 
को मुचना के लिये प्रकाशित किया जाता है 


अनुसूची 


स्थापन 


[ स० बी० ए० 16 ( 10 ) 72 एल० एस० प्राई ] 


नियोजक /नियोजकों का नाम 

और पता 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 
S. O . 3002 . -- whereas an application has been made 
under section 19 ( b ) of the Payment of Bonus Act , 1965 
by Messrs Gingurthi Stone Quarrying Company ( em 
ployer ) in relation to their establishments mentioned 
in the Schedule below for extension of the period for 
the payment of bonus to their employees for the ac 
counting year ending on 30th September, 1971 . 


मैसर्स गिनगरती स्टोन क्वारिंग 

कम्पनी तन्दूर , जिला 
हैदरावाद ( ग्रा० प्र० ) 
[सं० बी० ए० 16 ( 11 ) / 72 एल एसI ] 

( प्रार० जै० टी० डोमेलो ) 
मुख्य श्रम प्रायुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) 


New Delhi, the 29th June 1972 


S . O . 3003 . - -In exercise of the powers conferred by 
Clause ( a ) of Sub - Section ( 2 ) of Section 18 of the DP 
( Compensation & Rehabilitation) Act , 1954 ( 44 of 1954 ) , 
the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Uttam 
Singh, Asstt . Administrator PEPSU Townships Develop 
ment Board as Managing Officer for the Custody , 
Management and Disposal of compensation pool in the 
area of Rajpura & Tripura Township with immediate 
eflect. 


And whereas being satisfied that there are sufficient 
reasons to extend the time I have , in exercise of the 
powers conferred on me by the proviso to clause (b ) 
of Section 19 of the said Act read with the notification 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour 
and Employment No. WB. 20 ( 42 ) / 65 dated the 28th 
August , 1965 , passed order on 3rd July, 1972 extending 
the period for payment of the said bonus by the said 
employer by three months (1. e, up to 31st August , 
1972 ) from the last date for payment of bonus under 
clause ( b ) of Section 19 of the Act . 

Now this is published for information of the employer 
and all the employees of the said establishment. 

SCHEDULE 
Name and address of 

Establishment 
the employer ( 8 ) 

M / s. Gindurti Spain Quarries 
Company Tandur, Distt . 
Hydrabad ( A. P.) 

[ No . BA - 16 ( 11 ) / 72 - LS. I. ] 

R. J . T . D MELLO , 
Chief Labour Commissioner (Central ). 


__ [ No. 7 ( 2) ARG/ 63. ] 

A . L . HANDA , Dy. Secy . 
( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 


नई दिल्ली, 11जुलाई, 1972 


का० मा० 3002: - मैसर्स गिनगुरती स्टोन क्वारीग 
कम्पनी (नियोजक ) ने नीचे की अनुसूची में वर्णित अपने 
स्थापनों के सम्बन्ध में 30 - 9- 71 को समाप्त होने वाले लेखा 
वर्ष के लिये अपने कर्मचारियों की बोनस के संदाय की 
कालावधि को बढ़ाने के लिये बोनस संदाय अधिनियम , 1965 
की धारा 19 ( ख ) के अधीन आवेदन दिया है । 


का० प्रा० 3003 . – विस्थापित व्याक्त ( प्रतिकर 
तया पुनर्वास ) अधिनियम 1954 ( 1954 का 44 ) की धारा 
16 की उपधारा ( 2 ) के खण्ड ( क ) द्वारा प्रदत शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार इसके द्वारा श्री उत्तम सिंह , 
सहायक प्रशासक, पेप्सू उपनगर विकास बोई , को तत्काल 
प्र व से राजपुरा तथा त्रिपुरा के उपनगरीय क्षेत्रों में मावजा 
भण्डार की अभिरक्षा, प्रबन्ध तथा निपटान के लिए प्रबन्ध अधिकारी 
के रुप में नियुक्त करती है । 


और यतः यह समाधान हो जाने पर कि समय बढ़ाने के लिये 
पर्याप्त कारण हैं , मैंने भारत सरकार के श्रम और रोजगार मंत्रालय 
की अधिसूचना सं० डब्ल्यू० बी - 20 ( 42 )165 तारीख 28 
अगस्त , 1965 के साथ पठित उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 19 के 


[ संख्या 7 ( 2 ) / ए . प्रार०जी० 63] 

प्र . ल . हाडा, उप सचिव । 


4382 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II 


- 


- - 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 


New Delhi, the 7th August 1972 


S . O . 3005 . — Whereas the Central Government has in 
pursuance of clause ( c ) of Section 4 of the Employees 
State Insurance Act , 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , nominated, Shri 
B. V . Adavi, Deputy Secretary to Government of India , 
Ministry of Finance (Department of Expenditure ) as a 
member of the Employees State Insurance Corpora 
tion , in place of Shri D , K . Jain ; 


S. O . 3004 . - Whereas the Central Government has in 
pursuance of clause (b ) of section 8 of the Employees 
State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948 ), nominated Shri 
B . V . Adayi, Deputy Secretary to the Government of 
India , Ministry of Finance Department of Expendi 
ture), on the Stunding Committee of the Employees 
State Insurance Corporation , in place of Shri D , K . 
Jain ; 


Now , therefore, in pursuance of section 4 of the Em 
ployees State Insurance Act , 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) . the 
Central Government hereby makes the following further 
amendment in the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Ile 
habilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) 
S . O . No . 2763, dated the 27th May , 1971, namely: 


Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 8 of the Em 
ployees State Insurance Act , 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the 
Central Government makes the following amendment 
in the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Labour and Rehabilitation ( Department of 
Labour and Employment) NO , U - 16013 / 7 / 71-HI dated 
the 17th September , 1971 , namely : - - 


In the said notifcation under the heading " [No 
minated by Central Government under clause ( C ) of 
Section 4 ] ", for the entry against item 6 , the following 
entry shall be substituted namely : - - 


In the sald notification, under the heading “ [ No 
minated by the Central Government under clause ( b ; 
of section 8 ] " , for the entry against item 4 , the follow 
ing entry shall be substituted . namely : 


" Shri B. V . Adavi , Deputy Secretary to Government 

of India , Ministry of Finance Department of 
Expenditure ) " . 


[ F . No. U 16013 ( 6) / 71 - HI. ] 


" Shri B. V . Adavi, Deputy Secretary to the Govern 

ment of India , Ministry of Finance , Depart. 
ment of Expenditure . " 


[ No. H . 16013 / 6 / 71 - HI ( I) . ] 


का० प्रा० 3005 : - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार ने , कर्मचारी 
राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 
4 के खण्ड ( ग ) के अनुसरण में श्री बी० वी० प्रदायी, उप -सचिव , 
भारत सरकार, वित्त मंत्रालय ( व्यय विभाग ) को श्री डी० के० जैन 
के स्थान पर कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा निगम के रूप में नामनिर्दिष्ट 
किया है । 


( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 


नई दिल्ली, 7 अगस्त , 1972 


का० प्रा० 3004 : - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार ने , कर्मचारी 
राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 8 
के खण्ड ( ख ) के अनुसरण में , श्री बी० वी० अदावी , उप सचिव 
भारत सरकार, वित्त मंत्रालय ( व्यय विभाग ) को , श्री डी० के० जैन 
के स्थान पर कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा निगम की स्थायी समिति 
में नाम निर्दिष्ट किया है : 


अतः अब कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम 1948 ( 1948 
का 34 ) की धारा 4 के अनुसरण में केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा 
भारत सरकार, के श्रम , रोजगार और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और 
रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं० का ० आ० 2763 तारीख 
27 मई , 1971 में निम्नलिखित और संशोधन करती है , अर्थात : 


अतः, अब , कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 
( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 8 के अनुसरण में केन्द्रीय सरकार, 
भारत सरकार के श्रम और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार 
विभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं० यू० 160 13/ 7/ 71 -एच० आई० , 
दिनांक 17 सितम्बर , 1971 में निम्नलिखित संशोधन करती 
है , अर्थात: - - 


उक्त अधिसूचना में “ (केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा धारा 4 के 
खण्ड ( ग ) में नाम निर्दिष्ट ) " शीर्षक के नीचे मद 6 के सामने 
की प्रविष्टि के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टि प्रतिस्थापित की 
जाएगी , अर्थात : 

" श्री बी० वी० प्रवावी, उप - सचिव , 
भारत सरकार, वित्त मंत्रालय ( व्यय विभाग ) " 


__ [ फा० सं० यू० - 16013 ( 6) / 71- एच प्राई ] 


उक्त अधिसूचना में “ ( केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा धारा 8 के खण्ड 
( ख ) के अधीन नामनिर्दिष्ट ) " शीर्षक के नीचे मद 4 के सामने 
की प्रविष्टि के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टि प्रतिस्थापित की 
जाएगी , अर्थात : - - 


" श्री बी० वी० प्रदायी , 
उप- सचिव , भारत सरकार, 
वित्त मंत्रालय , ( व्यय विभाग ) " 


New Delhi, the 14th August 1972 
S . O , 3006 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs . The Co -operative League oť the USA , AIFACS 
Building, Raf Marg , New Delhi, have agreed that the 
Provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and 
Famlly Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952), should be 
made applicable to the said establishment; 


[ मं० एच० 160 13/ 6/ 71 -एच० आई० ( )] 


SEC. 3 ( 1 ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4383 


-- - - - - - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


Now , therefore in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section I of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the sald establishment. 


Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be 
made applicable to the said establishment; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub- section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act. the 
Central Government hereby applics the provisions of 
the sail Art to the said establishment, 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of February , 1971. 

___ [ No . S. 35019 (71) / 72- PF .II (i).] 
नई दिल्ली, 14 अगस्त , 1972 


का० प्रा० 300 6. - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैसर्स को - आपरेटिव लीग आफ यू०एस०ए० , ए० आई० एफ० 
ए० सी० एस० भवन रफी मार्ग , नई दिल्ली नामक स्थापन से 
सम्बद्धनियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत 
हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कूटम्ब पशन निधि अधि - * 
नियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू 
किए जाने चाहिए । 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into , 
force on the thirty first day of December , 1970 . 

[ No . S. 35018 ( 52 ) / 72- PF.II(i).] 
का० प्रा० 31008.-~- यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स ई० जे० दस्तूर एण्ड कम्पनी डोल-बिन - शीर 
द्वितीय मंजिल 69 - 71 धोगा स्ट्रीट, बम्बई नामक स्थापन से 
सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत 
हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और फूटम्ब पेंशन निधि 
अधिनियम 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन 
को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 

अतः अब उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लागू करती 


" 


अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम को धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उन स्थापन को एनद्वारा लागू करती है । 


stic 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 की फरवरी के प्रथम दिन को प्रवत्त 
हुई समझी जायगी । 


यह अधिसूचना 1970 के दिसम्बर के इकत्तीसवें दिन को 
प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ सं० एम -35018( 52 )/ 72 -पी०एफ० 2(i) ] 


[ सं० एस० 350 19 ( 71 ) / 72 - पी० एफ० 2 ( i) ] 


S . O . 3007. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the 
first proviso to section 6 of the Employees Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , 
the Central Government, after making necessary en 
quiry into the matter hereby specifies with effect from 
the 1st February , 1971 , the establishment known as 
Messrs The Co - operative League of the USA , AIFACS 
Building, Rafi Marg , New Delhi, for the purposes of the 
said proviso . 


[ No. S. 35019 (71 )/ 72 - PF .II ( ii). ] 
का० प्रा० 3007. -- केन्द्रीय सरकार कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम, 1952 ( 195 2 का 19 ) 
की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हए , संबं विषय में आवश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात 1 फरवरी 
1971 से मैसर्स को - आपरेटिव लीग आफ यु० एस० ए०, 
ए०आई०एफ०ए०सी०एस० भवन रफी मार्ग नई दिल्ली नामक 
स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा उक्त परन्तुक के प्रयोजनों के लिए 
विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 


$ . O . 3009. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the 
first proviso to section 6 of the Employees Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , 
the Central Government, after inaking necessary en 
quiry into the matter, hereby spccifies with effect from 
the 31st December , 1970 , the Establishment known as 
Messrs E . J . Dastur and Company, Dol - Bin- Shir , 2nd 
Floor, 69 -71 Ghoga Street, Bombay for the purposes of 
the said proviso . 

[ No. S.35018 (52) / 72- PF .IT( ii).] 
का० प्रा० 3009.----कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और 
कुटुम्ब पणन निधि अधिनियम 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) की 
धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हा केन्द्रीय सरकार इस विषय में आवश्यक जांच कर लेने के 
पश्चात् एतदद्वारा मैसम ई० जे० दस्तर एण्ड कम्पनी डोल -बिन - शीर 
द्वितीय मंजिल 69 - 71 धोगा स्ट्रीट मुम्बई नामक स्थापन को 
31 दिसम्बर 1970 से उक्त परन्तुक के प्रयोजनों के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट 
करती है । 

[ सं० एम- 350 18/ 52/ 72-पी०एफ० 2( ii) ] 


[सं० एस० 35019 ( 71 ) / 72 -पी०एफ०2 (ii ) ] 


S . O . 3008, Whereas it appears to the Central Govern 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment kñown as 
Messrs. E . J . Dastur and Company, Dol- Bin -Shir, 2nd 
Floor , 69- 71 Ghoga Street , Bombay have agreed that 
the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and 


S . O , 3010 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
the Messrs Larsen and Tourho and Allied Concerns 
Employees Co operative Credit Society Limited . L & T 
Welfare Centre , Sakivihar Road , Bombay - 72 have agreed 
that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds 
and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ), should 
be made applicable to the said cstablishmche; 


4384 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART 11 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - - - -- 


- - - - - 


- 


- - - - - - 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


Messrs. Mahaveer Drug House, A. S . Char Street , 
Bangalore- 2 . A and its branch Office at . 111 / 2 , 
Marathagath , Hubli- 20 have greed that the provisions 
of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952). should be made applicable 
to the said establishment; 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirtieth day of June , 1970 . 


[ No. S . 35018( 36 ) / 72- PF .II (i). ] 


Now , therefore in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section (4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of January, 1972. 


का० प्रा० 3010 - यत केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह 
प्रतीत होता है कि मैमर्स लारसन एण्ड टोबरो एण्ड अलाइड कन्सर्नज 
एम्पलाइज़ कोआपरेटिव ऋडिट सोसाइटी लिमिटेड , एल एण्ड टी 
बैलफयर सैन्टर साकीबिहार रोड, मुम्बई- 72 नामक स्थापन 
से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर 
सहमत हो गई है कि कमचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब प शन 
निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबंध उक्त 
स्थापन को लाग किए जाने चाहिए ; 


[ No. S. 35019(62)/ 72- PF. II .] 
का० प्रा० 30 12. - - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स महावीर ड्रग हाउस , ए० एस० चार स्ट्रीट , 
बंगलौर- 2 ए नामक स्थापन और 111 / 2, मराठा गली , हुबली 
20 में उसकी शाखा से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की 
ब संख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 
और कुटम्ब पशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 
के उप ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम को धारा 1 को उपधारा ( 4 ) 
धारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लाग करती है । 


यह अधिसूचना 1970 के जून के तीसवें दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई 
समझी जाएगी । 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लाग करता है । 


[ सं० एम - 350 18 ( 36 ) / 72-पो० एफ० 2 (i ) ] 


यह अधिसूचना, 1972 की जनवरी के इकतीसवें दिन को 
प्रवृत हई समझी जाएगी । 


[सं० एस- 35019( 62 ) / 72 -पी० एफ० 2 ) ] 


S . 0 . 3011. - - In exercise of the powers conferred by the 
first proviso to section 6 of the Employees Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
the Central Government, after making necessary en 
quiry into the matter , hereby specifles with effect from 
the 30th June, 1970 the establishment known as Messrs, 
Larsen and Toubro and Allied Concerned employees 
Co-operative Credit Society Limited , L & T Welfare 
Centre , Sakivihar Road , Bombay - 72 for the purposes to 
the said provlso . 


S . O , 3013 . Whereas it appears to the Central Govern 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs . Everite Sales Corporation , 35 -Kamla Market , 
New Delhi, have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employecs Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 

Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 


[ No. S. 35018 (36) / 72- PF .II ( ii ).] 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the sald Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
. force on the first day of February , 1970 . 


का० प्रा० 3011 . - केन्द्रीय सरकार कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटुम्ब पणन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 
19 ) की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हए संबद्ध विषय में आवश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात 30 
जन 1970 से लारसन एण्ड टोबरो एण्ड अलाइड कसनज 
एम्पलाइज कोआपरेटिव कैडिट सोसाइटी लिमिटेड , एल एण्ड टी 
वैलफयर सैटर , साकी विहार रोड , मुम्बई- 72 नामक स्थापन को 
एतद्वारा उक्त परन्तुक के प्रयोजनों के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 

[ सं० एस - 35018 ( 36 ) / 72-पी० एफ० 2 ( ii ) ] 


[ No . S. 35019( 79) / 72- PF.II. ] 


का० प्रा० 30 13. - -यत: केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह 
प्रतीत होता है कि मैसस एवराइट सेरुश कार्पोरेशन , 35- कमला 
माकट , नई दिल्ली नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्म 
चारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी 
भविष्य निधि और कुटम्ब पशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 
का 19) के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लाग किए जाने चाहिए । 


S . 0 , 3012. -- Whereas it appears to the Central Govern 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 


SEC. 3( ii ) ]] 


4385 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 


- . - - - - - - 


- 


- - - - - - - - 


- 


: 


- . -- 


This Notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the Arst day of July , 1970 . 


अतः, अब उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती है । 


[ No. S 35019 ( 81 ) / 72 - PF. II ] 


- 


- 


यह अधिसूचना 1970 की फरवरी, के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ सं० एस -35019 ( 79) / 72-पी०एफ० 2 ] 


कि मैसर्स निप्पन इलेक्ट्रिक कम्पनी लिमिटेड, 56, जनपथ , फस्ट 
फ्लोर, पाल्पस , बिल्डिंग , नई दिल्ली नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध 
नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत 
हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि 
अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन 
को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 

अत :, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा 
( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार 
उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लाग करती 


S . O , 3014 . Whereas It appears to the Central Govern 
ment that the employer and the mafority of the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs . Indiari Textile , 277, Dharamraj Galli M . J . 
Market. Bombay - 2 including its office at 557, Chira 
Bazar , Bombay - 2 , have agreed that the provisions of 
the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act , 1952 (19 of 1952). should be madee applicable 
to the said establishment; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-sertion ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applicg the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


यह अधिसूचना 1970 की जुलाई के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ सं० एस . 35019 ( 81)/ 72- पी ० एफ ० 2) ] 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty -first day of May, 1971. 

[ No. S. 35018 ( 44) / 72 - PF .II. ] 


का० प्रा० 30 14 . - - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैर्सस इंडियन टैक्सटाईल , 277, धर्मराज गली , एमजे० 
मार्किट , बम्बई- 2 नामक स्थापन जिसमें 557 चीरा बाजार , 
बम्बई - 2 स्थित उसका कार्यालय सम्मिलित है से सम्बद्ध नियोजक 

और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि 
फर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 
( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने 
चाहिए 


S . 0 . 3016 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Govern 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 

Messrs Dey Radio Service, 168, Dharmtalla Street , 
Calcutta including its branch , Dey Radio Service, 7 , 
Chandi Approach , Calcutta - 13. have agreed that the 
provisions of the Employee s Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ), should 
be made applicable to the said establishment; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub -section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, tho 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 


प्रतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 1 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
प्रधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 

यह अधिसूचना 1971 की मई के इकतीसवें दिन को प्रवत्त 
इई समझी जाएगी । 

[ सं० एस० 35018( 44 )/ 72-पी० एफ० 2 ] 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty -first day of May , 1971 . 

[ No . S. 35017 ( 29)/72-PF. II ] 
का ० प्रा० 30 16. - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स में रेडियो सर्विस , 168, धरमतला स्ट्रीट , 
कलकत्ता, जिसमें उसकी शाखा, डे रेडियो सविस , 7, चण्डी एप्रोच , 
कलकत्ता - 13 सम्मिलित है , नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक 

और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि 
कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 
( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन के लाग किए जाने 
चाहिए ; 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती है । 
___ यह अधिसूचना 1971 की मई के इकतीस दिन प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ सं0 35017 ( 29)/ 72 - पी ० एफ ० 2] 


S . O . 3015 . — Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Nippon Electric Company Limited, 56, Janpath, 
Ist Floor, Alps Building , New Delhi have agreed that 
the provisions of the Employee s Provident Funds 
and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) . 
should be made applicable to the said establishment; 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub- section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


4386 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 . 1972/ ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II 


भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 
का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 


S . O , 3017 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known 29 
Messrs Polyolefins Industries Limited , 5th Mile Stone 
thana Belapur Road Thana, including its Head Office 
at Neville House Curnonbhy Road , Bellard Estate , 
Bombuy- 1 , have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 

Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 के दिसम्बर के प्रथम दिन को प्रवास 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of November , 1967. 


[ संख्या एम ० 35019 ( 58) / 72- पी ०एफ० - 2] 


[ No. S. 35017 ( 60 ) / 71 - PP. II ] 


का ० ० 30 17. - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स पोलियो लफिन्म इंडस्ट्रीस लि०, पांचवां मील स्टोन , 
थाना बेलपुर रोड , थाना तथा इसका मुख्य कार्यालय - नेविले 
हाउस कुरियनमी रोड, बैलर्ड एस्टेट , बम्बई - 1 नामक स्थापन 
से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहसंख्या इस बात पर 
महमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि अधिनियम , 1952 
( 1952 का 19) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने 
चाहिए ; 


$ . 0 , 3019 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
cmployees in re ation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Eastern Agencies Handloom House Annexe, 38 
Police Court Lane, Dadabhai Naoroji Road , Bombay - 1 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees 
Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 
( 19 of 1952 ) should be made applicable to the said 
cstablishment. 


अत :, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम 
के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub -section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment, 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of December , 1971 , 


यह अधिसूचना 1967 के नवम्बर के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ सं० एस०- 35017 ( 60)/ 71 -पी० एफ ० 2] 


[ No. S. 35018 ( 49 ) / 72- PF.II .] 


S . O . 3018. - Whercas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employcr and the majority of the 
employces in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs East India Paint & Chemicals Works Lirni. 
ted , Pendurthi, Visakhapatnam have agreed that the 
provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should 
be made upplicable to the said establishment; 


का० प्रा० 30 19.-- - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैमर्स ईस्टर्न एजेन्सीज , हैन्डलम हाउस एनेक्से , 38 
पूलिम कोर्ट लेन , दादाभाई नौरोजी रोड, बम्बई - 1 नामक स्थापन 
से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर 
महमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन 
निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त 
स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub- section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम क उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती है । 


This notification shall be dcemed to have come into 
force on the first day of December , 1971. 


[ No. S . 35019 ( 58 ) / 72 - PF .II. ] 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 के दिमम्बर के इकत्तीसवें दिन को 
प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 


का ० आ 0 30 18. - -यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स ईस्ट इंडिया पेन्ट एण्ड कैमिकल्स वर्कस लिमिटेड , 
पेण्डुर्थी, विशाखापटनम नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और 
कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी 


[सं० एस० 35018 ( 49 ) / 72-पी० एफ० - 2] 


SEC 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21 , 1972/ ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4387 


भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्बपेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 
का 19 ) के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 


6. 0 . 3020.---- Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Hindustan Shipping Company, J . K . Building, 

Narottam. Morarji Marg, Ballard Estate, Bombay - 1 , 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees 
Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 
(19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the gaid 
establishment ; 


प्रतः अब उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
प्रधिनियम के उपबंध उपत स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू 
करती है । 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) ot section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 के जून के 30वें दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई 
समझी जाएगी । 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirtieth day of September , 1970. 

[ No. S. 35018 ( 50 ) / 72 - PF.II.] 


[सं० एस- 35018( 42 )/ 72-पी०एफ० 2] 


का० प्रा० 30 20. - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैससं हिन्दुस्तान शिपिंग कम्पनी, जे० के० बिल्डिंग , नरो 
तम मोरारजी मार्ग, बलाई एस्टेट , मुम्बई- 1 नामक स्थापन से 
सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर 
सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन 
निधि अधिनियम 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबंध उक्त 
स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 


8 . 0 . 3022 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Mahaveer Iron Works , Dharwar Road , Bel 


ployees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 


अतः अब उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियो का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लाग करती 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub- section ( 4 ) of Bection 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establisament. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of March . 1972. 


[ No. S . 35019 ( 56 ) / 72- FF. II .] 


__ यह अधिसूचना 1970 के सितम्बर के तीसवें दिन को प्रवृत 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ सं० एस० 35018 ( 50 ) / 72-पी०एफ० 2] 


का० मा . 3022. - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैसर्स महावीर पायरन वर्क्स , घरवर रोउ , बेलगांव नामक 
स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस 
बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटम्ब 
पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19) के उपबंध 
उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 


S . O . 3021 , — Whereas it appears to the Central Goy 
ernment that the employer and thc majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishnicnt known 89 
Messrs Nicolls and Company , Karmani Building, Sir, 
P . M , Road, Fort, Bombay , have agreed that the pro 
visions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made 
applicable to the said establishment; 


मत :, मन , उक्त मधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती है । 


by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hercby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


यह अधिसूचना 1972 की मार्च के प्रथम दिन को प्रवत्त हुई 
समझी जाएगी । 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirtieth day of June, 1971, 


[ No. S- 35018 (42) / 72- PF.II .] 


[सं० एस०.35019( 55 )/ 72-पी०एफ० 2] 


का० आ० 3021. - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मेसर्स निकल्स एंड कंपनी, कारमानी बिल्डिंग, सर पी० एम० 
रोड , फोर्ट बम्बई नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्म 
चारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी 


8 . 0 . 3025. - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs. Vaish Brothers, 25 - Regal Buildings , New Delhi 


4388 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART 11 - - 


. 


. . 


- . 


. 


have agreed that the provisions of the Employees 
Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 
( 18 of 1052 ), should be made applicable to the said 
establishment; 


प्रत :, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 
___ यह अधिसूचना 1971 के अप्रैल के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April, 1971. 


[ सं० एस० 35019( 85 )/ 72-पी०एफ० 2 ] 


[ No. S. 35019 ( 82) / 72 -PF.II .] 


का० प्रा० 3023. - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैसर्स वैस अदर्स , 25- रीगल बिल्डिंग्स , नई दिल्ली नामक 
स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या हम 
बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारो भविष्य निधि और परिवार 
पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबंध 
उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 


$ . 0 . 3025 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov. 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Indian Press Service, 16 - A , Friends Colony, 
New Delhi have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employecs Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , should be made applic 
able to the sald establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of December , 1968 . 

[ No. S. 35019( 83 ) /72- PF.II.] 


अत :, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 को उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 के अप्रैल , के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
ही समझी जाएगी । 

[सं० ए 1035019 ( 82 ) / 72-पी० एफ० 2 


1114 


का० प्रा० 3025 .- यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैसर्स इण्डियन प्रैस सविस , 16 - ए, फ्रेंडस कालोनी , नई दिल्ली 
नामक स्थापन से सम्बन्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहसंख्या इस 
बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और परिवार 
पणानिधि अधिनियम , 195 2 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबंध उक्त 
स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 


अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम कीधारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा 
प्रहत शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम 
के उपबंध उक्त स्थान को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 


S . O . 3024. -- Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of ine 
employees in relation to the established known as 
Messrs Burlingtons, Ashoka Hotel, New Delhi have 
agreed that the provisions of the Emyloyecs Provi 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 
of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said cstab 
lishment; 


यह अधिसूचना 1968 के दिसम्बर, के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई 
समझो जाएगी । 


Now , therefore, in exercisc of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


[ सं० एस० 35019 ( 83 ) / 72-पी० एफ० 2] 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April , 1971. 


[ No . S . 35019 ( 85 ) / 72- PF.II. ] 


S . O . 3026 . - Whereas it appears that the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of 
the employees in relation to the establighment known 
as Messrs Rishi Roop Udyog, Barry Market, Sadar 
Bazar , Delhi including its branch at 6 / 14 , Kirti Nagar , 
Industrial Area New Delhi have agreed that the pro 


Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , should 
be mide applicable to the said establishment; 


का० श्रा० 3024. - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैसर्स बलिंगटन्स , अशोक होटल , नई दिल्ली नामक स्थापन 
से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहाख्या इस बात पर 
सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन 
निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के सबंध उक्त 
स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


Sec . 3di) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972, ASVINA 29, 1894 


4389 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


-- 





This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of January , 1971. 

[ No. S. 35019( 86 ) /72- PF. II. ] 


S . O . 3028. - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov . 
ernment that the cmployer and the majority of the 
Employers in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Vummidi Bangaru Chetty & Company 3 , 
Nagacswara Rao Road , Madras - 17 have agreed that 
the provisions of the Employecs Provident Funds and 
Fainily Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ), should 
be made applicable to the said cstablishment; 


का०मा० 3026 - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैसर्स ऋषि रुप उद्योग , बारी मार्केट , सदर बाजार , दिल्ली , 
इसके अन्तर्गत इसकी शाखा 6 / 14, कीर्ति नगर , इण्डस्ट्रीयल एरिया , 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the sid Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the Arst day of March , 1971 , 


__ [ No. S . 35019/ 17 / 71- PF . II . ] 


चारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी 
भविष्य निधि और परिवार पेंशन निधि अधिनियम 1952 ( 1952 
का 19) के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लागू करती है । 
___ यह अधिसूचना 1971 को जनवरी के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई 
समझी जाएगी । 

[ सं० एस -350 19 ( 86 ) / 72-पी० एफ० 2] 


का० प्रा० 3028.- यत: केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि सम्मिडिगारु चैटीएएड कं०, 3, नागेशवाड़ा राव रोड , 
मदास - 17, नामक स्थापन मे सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों 
की बहसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1975 का 
19 ) के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 


अत:, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 


8 . O . 3027. — Whercas it appears to the Central Gov . 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Sri Raman Theatre, West Bouldeward, Pondi 
cherry have agreed that the provisions of the Em 
ployees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 के मार्च के प्रथम दिन को प्रवत्त हुई 
समझी जाएगी । 


[ सं० एस - 350 19 ( 17) / 71 -पी० एफ० 2 ] 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by gub -section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notiAcation shall be dcemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April , 1972. 


S . 0 . 3029 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Goy 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
emp oyees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Punjab Tractors Limited 10 Sector 9 - A Chandl 
garh 11 have agreed that the provisions of the Emp 
loyees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 
1952 19 of 1952 ) should be made applicable to the said 
establishment . 


[ No . S . 35019 ( 87) / 72- PF.II . ] 


का० प्रा० 2027. -यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैसर्स श्री रमण थिएटर , वेस्ट बल्ले वार्ड , पांडिचेरी नामक 
स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात 
पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और परिवार पेंशन 
निधि अधिनियम 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबंध उक्त 
स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the soid Act. the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisiong of 
the sald Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be dcemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April, 1972 , 


[ No. S . 35019 ( 74 ) / 72 - PF .II ] 


प्रतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उयत 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लाग करती है । 


यह अधिसूचना 1972 के अप्रैल के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई 
समझी जाएगी । 


का ० प्रा० 3 029 - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मंगर्स पंजाब ट्रैक्टर्स लिमिटेड, 10 सेक्टर 9 -ए, चंडीगढ़ 
11 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बह 
संख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और 
कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 
के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लाग किये जाने चाहिए । 


[सं० एस-350 19 ( 87)/ 72-पी० एफ० 2] 


4390 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29, 1894 


[PART II 


- 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा की 1 उपधारा ( 4) द्वारा 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती है । 

यह अधिसूचना 1972 के अप्रैल, के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई ] 
समझी जाएगी । 

[सं० एस - 35019( 74)/ 72 - पी ० एफ ० 2 ] 


___ का० प्रा० 303 1.- यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है 
कि टी०टी० इन्वेस्टमेंट एण्ड ट्रेडस प्राइवेट लिमिटेड , 3 कैथेड्रल 
रोड, मद्रास , जिसके अन्तर्गत टेन्टेक्स , वालन बन रोड़, 
थांजायुर स्थित उसका कारखाना भी है, नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध 
नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत 
हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि 
अधिनियम 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को . 
लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लाग 
करती है । 


यह अधिसूचना 1972 के जनवरी के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हई समझी जाएगी । 


[ सं० एस ० 35019( 7) / 72 -पी०एफ० 2] 


S . O . 3030 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Ajitmal Kanhaiyalal, 154, Jamunalal Bazaz 
Street Calcutta - 7 including its branch at 86 , New 
Cloth Market , Ahmedabad have agreed that the pro 
visions of the Employees Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , should 
be made applicable to the said establishment ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act. to the said establishment . 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of July , 1971. 

[ No. S. 35017 ( 41) / 72 - PF .II.] 
का प्रा० १०१० - यनः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है 
कि मैसर्स अजीतमल कन्हैया लाला 154, जमना लाल 
बजाज स्ट्रीट कलकत्ता जिसकी शाखा 86 न्यू क्लोथ मार्केट , 
अहमदाबाद में है, नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और 
कर्मचारियों की बहसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है 
कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 
1952 ( 1952 का 19) के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू 
किए जाने चाहिए ; 

अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 

वह अधिसूचना 1971 की जुलाई के इकत्तीसवें दिन को 
प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[सं ० एस - 35017 ( 41)/ 72 -पी०एफ०2] 


S . 0 . 3032 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Edde, 3 - N , Janpath, Cannaught Place, New 
Delhi have agreed that the provisions of the Emplo 
yees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 
1952 (19 of 1952) , should be made applicable to the 
said establishment; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of February , 1971, 


[ No . S. 35019 ( 38 ) / 72- PF . II . ] 


का०या० 3032. - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि 
मैसस इडे , 3- एन , जनपथ कनाट प्लेस , नई दिल्ली , नामक स्थापन से 
सम्बध नियोजकों और कर्मचारियों की बहसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत 
हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधि 
नियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को 
लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 


S . 0 . 3031 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the emp oyer and the majority of the 
emplovees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs T . T . Investments and Trades Private Limited , 
3 Cattedial Road . Madras including its Factory at 
Tantex Wallen ona Road . Tanjavur have agreed that 
the nroviaions of the Emplovees Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , should 
be made applicable to the said establishment; 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्रद्वारा लागू करती है । 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
bv suh -section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 के फरवरी के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत हुंई 
समझी जाएगी । 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of January , 1972 . 


INo. S. 35019 ( 7 ) / 72-PF. II. 


[ सख्या एस० 35019 ( 38 )/ 72-पी० एफ०२ 


Sxe. 3(ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


S . O . 3033 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in re ation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Nuart Press 57 -58 H . G . Road, Gamdevi 
Bombay - 7 have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 


मतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त प्रधि 
नियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वाग लागू करती हैं । 

यह अधिसूचना 1971 के दिसम्बर के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत हई 
समझी जाएगी । 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the sald Act, the 
Central Government herehy applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


[ संख्या एम० 35019 (10)/ 72-मी० एफ० 2)] 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of July , 1971. 


[ No. S . 35018 ( 53 ) / 72- PF. II. ] 


का० प्रा० 3033. - -- यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैमर्म नुप्रार्ट प्रेस, 57- 58 एच० जी०रोर, गोमदेवी , मुम्बई 7 
नामक स्थापन से सम्बनध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहसंख्या 
इस बात पर महमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब 
पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त 


S . O . 8035 ,- - - Whereas it appears to the Central Govern 
ment that the cinployer and the majority of the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment .. known as 
Messrs. National Chemicals, Handloom House Annexe, 
38 Police Court Lane. Bombay - 1 , have agreed that the 
provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 (19 of 1952), should be 
made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now therefore in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub- section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act , to the said establishment . . 

This notifcation shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty Arst day of December , 1971. 

__ [ No . S- 35018 / 28 / 72- PP .II. ] 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदन शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधि 
नियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लागू करती हैं । 


यह अधिपूचना 1971 की जुलाई के इकतीसवें दिन को 
प्रवृत हुई मममी जाएगी । 


[ संख्या एस० 35018 ( 53)/ 72 -पी० एफ० 2 )] 


* का०या० 3035 - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि 
मैसर्स नेशनल फैमिकल्स , हैन्डलूम हाउस अनैक्सी, 38 - पुलिस 
कोर्ट लेन , मुम्बई - 1, नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्म 
चारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी 
भविष्य निधि और कूटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 
का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 
। अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त मधि 
नियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती है । 

यह अधिसूचना 1971 के दिसम्बर, के इक्तीसवें दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 


S . O . 3034 . ... Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Sri Gajalakshmi Theatre Private Limited , 
Tiruppur, Coimbatore have agreed that the provisions 
of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pen 
sion Fund Act , 1952 (19 of 1952 ) , should be made 
applicable to the said establishment; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section ( 4 ) of section 1 ot the sald Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
thc said Act to the said establishment. 


[ सं० एस - 35018( 28 )/ 72-पी०एफ० १] 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the Arst day of December , 1971 . 


New Delhi, the 18th August, 1972 


[ No . S-35019 / 10 / 72-PF. II. ] 


का० प्रा० 3034. --- यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैपमै श्री गजनश्मी थियेटर प्राइवेट लिमिटेड, तिरपुर , कोए. 
म्बटर नामक स्थापन से सम्बदध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बह 
संख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और 
कटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उप 
धन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 


S . O . 3036..-.- Whereas it appears to the Central Govern 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Precision Optics & Machineries ( Private ) Limi 
ted P -26, Graham Lond, Calcutta - 40 including its fac 
tories No. 1 Bonhooghly , Industrial Estate, Shade E / 1. 
Block - 1 , Calcutta - 35 and Factory No. II, P - 26 , Grahamo 
Land, Calcutta -40 have agreed that the provisions of 
the Employees Provident Funds and Family Ponzion 
Fund Art 195 ? ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicablo 
to the sald establishment; 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers confered 
by sub- section ( 4) of section 1 of the said Act, the 


4392 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II 


Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act, to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirtieth day of June, 1971. 

[ No . S-35017(360/ 72 -PF . II (1).] 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 के दिसम्बर के इकत्तीसवें दिन को 
प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 


[सं० एस० 350 18( 33 )/ 72 -पी०एफ० 2] 


नई दिल्ली , 16 अगस्त 1972 


का 0ग्रा0 30 36 - - पत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैमर्स प्रीसीजन प्राप्टिक्स एण्ड मशीनरीज प्राइवेट लिमिटेड , 
पी - 26 ग्राहम लैंड, कलकत्ता - 40, जिस में इस के कारखाना सं0 1 
बानहगली , इन्डस्ट्रियल एस्टेट , ग्रेड ई ) 1लाक - 1 कलकत्ता 
35 तथा कारखाना सं0 2 पी0 26 ग्राहम लैड कलकत्ता - 40 
सम्मिलित है, नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों 
की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 
और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 
के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिये ; 


S . O . 3038. - Whereas it appears to the Central Govern 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs. Mahendra J. Shah , Syrian Church Road , Coim 
batore - 1 have agreed that the provisions of the Em 
ployees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now therefore in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub- section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the sald Act, to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April, 1972 . 


[ No. S.35019 (89) / 72- PP .II(i).] 


प्रतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 के जून के तीसवें दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई 
समझी जाएगी । 


[ सं० एस - 35017 ( 35 ) / 72-पी० एफ ०2 ( i ) ] 


का० प्रा० 3038 यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्म महेन्द्र जे० शाह, सिरियन चर्च रोउ, कोयम्बटूर 
नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहु 
संख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 
और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम, 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 
के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किये जाने चाहिये । 

अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा 
( 4) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय 
सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद् 
द्वारा लागू करती है । 


s . o . 3037 . -- . Whereas it appears to the Central Govern 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs. Crystal Chemicals , 38 Police Court Lane, Fort 
House , Bombay - 1, have agreed that the provisions of 
the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pengion 
Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable 
to the said establishment; 

Now therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section (4 ) of section 1 of the sald Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions oť 
the said Act, to the sald establishment, 


यह अधिसूचना, 1972 के अप्रैल के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हई समझी जाएगी । 


This notiAcation shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of December, 1971. 


[ सं० एस० 35019( 89)/72-पी०एफ 2 (i)] 


[ No. S. 35018 / 33 / 72- PF .II.] 


का० प्रा० 3037 - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरफार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैसर्स क्रिस्टल कैमिकल्स , 38, पुलिस कोर्ट लेन , फोर्ट हाउस , 
मम्बई - 1 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बह 
संख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 
और कूटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम, 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 
के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किये जाने चाहिये । 


S . O . 3039 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
first proviso to section of the Employees Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act . 1952 (19 of 1952) , 
the Central Government, after making necessary en 
quiry into the matter , hereby specifles with effect from 
the 30th June, 1971 the establishment known as Messrs 
Precision Optics and Machinerles ( Private ) Limited , 
P - 26 , Grahams Land, Calcutta -40 including its Factory 
No. 1 Bonhooghly . Industrial Estate , Shade E / 1 , Block - 1 
Calcutta - 3A and Factory No. II P - 26 , Grahams Land , 
Calcutta - 40 for the purposes of the sald proviso. 


अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा J की उपधाग ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनिया के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती है । 


[ No. 3- 35017 / 35 / 72/ PF-II(11).] 


SEc . 3( i)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 


4393 


फा० प्रा० 30 39 - केन्द्रीय सरकार कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 
पौर कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 195 2 का 19 ) 
की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हुए , सम्बद्ध विषय में प्रावश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात् 30 जून , 
1971 से प्रीसीजन प्राप्टिक्स एण्ड मशीनरीज प्राइवेट लिमिटेड , 
पी - 26 ग्राहम लैण्ड, कलकत्ता 40 जिसमें इसकाकारखाना संख्या । । 
बानहुगली, इण्डस्ट्रियल , एस्टेट , ग्रेड , ई / 1, छलांक - 1, कलकत्ता- 35 
तथा कारखाना संख्या 2 पी - 26 ग्राहम लैण्ड , कलकत्ता -40 
सम्मिलित हैं । नामक स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा उक्त परन्तुक के 
प्रयोजनों के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 

[ संख्या एस- 350 17 ( 35 )/ 72-पी० एक - 2 ( ii )] 


___ का० प्रा० 3041 - - केन्द्रीय सरकार कर्म वारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटम्ब पेंगन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 
19) की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तु क द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए, सबद्ध विषय में प्रावश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात् 
1 अप्रैल, 1971 से मैसर्स वल्ड पिचर सर्विसिज लि० - 51 
बाबर रोड़, नई दिल्ली - 1 नामक स्थापन को एतद्वारा उक्त 
परन्तुक के प्रयोजनों के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करता है । 

[सं० एस० 35019( 84)/ 72 -पो० एफ० - 2 (ii )] 


S . 0 . 3040. - - Whereas it appears to the Central Govern 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment known us 
Messrs . Anand Wire Netting Company , 47 Sidhpura 
Industrial Estate , Masrani Lane, Kurla Bombay - 70 have 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 (19 of 1952), 
should be made applicable to the said establishment. 

Now therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub- section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act , to the said establishment . 

This rotiAcation shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of October, 1971 . 

___ [ No. S- 35018 / 28/ 72- PF.II.] 
का०मा० 3040 - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है 
कि मैसर्स आनन्द वायर कं०, 47, सिधपुरा इन्डस्ट्रियल एस्टेट , 
मसरानी लेन , करला , मुम्बई - 70 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक 
और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि 
कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुंटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 
( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए 
जाने चाहिए । 


S . O . 3042. - Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of 
the employees in relation to the establishment known 
as Messrg Estate Babu Lal Agarwalla , 169 - A . Maha 
tma Gandhi Road , Calcutta - 7 including its Temples 
and Chhattar at 190 , Mahatma Gandhi Road , Calcutta 
and at Atkhamba, Vrindaban , District Mathura 
Uttar Pradesh and Pucca Tola at Ramsitapara , Nabad 
wip , District Nadia have agreed that the provisions of 
the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952) should be made applica 
ble to the said establishment; 

Now therefore, in exercise of the powers con 
ferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of Section 1 of the said Act, 
the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirtieth day of September , 1970. 


[ No. S. 35017( 39 ) / 72- PF. II .] 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 को उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम 
के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लाग करती है । 


का० आ० 3042 - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स स्टेट बाबलाल अपवाला , 169 - ए , महात्मा 
गांधी रोड, कलकत्ता - 7 तया इसके टेम्पलप पीर उतर - 190 , 
महात्मा गांधी रोड़, कलकत्ता तथा अटखम्बा , बन्दाबन , जिला 
मथुरा , उत्तर प्रदेश और पक्का टोल - रामसीतापारा नबदविप , 
जिला नादिया , नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों 
की यह संख्या इस बात पर महमन हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम, 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 
के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 के भक्तूबर के इकतीसवें दिन को 
प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ सं० एम० - 35018 ( 26 )/ 72 -पी० एफ० -2 ] 


अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद् द्वारा लागू करती 


S . O , 3041. - In exercise of the powers conferred 
by the first proviso to section 6 of the Employees Pro 
vident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 
of 1952 ) , the Central Government, after making neces 
sary enquiry into the matter , hereby specifies with 
effect from the 1st April, 1971 the establishment known 
as Messrs World Feature Services Ltd.. 51- Babar 
Road, New Delhi - 1 for the purposes of the sald pro 
viso . 

[ No. S . 35019 ( 84 ) / 72 - PF.II (ii ) ] 


हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[सं० एस०- 35017( 39 )/ 72-पी० एफ० - 2] 


4394 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART 11 -- 


S . O . 3043. - Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of 
the employees in relation to the establishment known 
as Messrs World Feature Services Ltd . 51- Babar Road , 
New Delhi- 1 have agrced that the provisions of the 
Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act , 1952 (19 of 1952 ) should be made applicable 
to the said establishment ; 

Now , therefore in exercise of the powers con 
fered by sub -section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , 
the Central Government hereby applies the provi 
sions of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
torce no the first day of April, 1971. 

[ No. S. 35019 ( 84 ) / 72- PF. II (i) .] 
का० प्रा० 3043 - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है 
कि मंसर्स वल फिचर सविसेज लि . 51 वाबर रोड , नई दिल्ली 1 
भामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या 
इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि मौर 
परिवार पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के 
उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लाग किए जाने चाहिए । 

प्रतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लाग करती है । 

यह अधिसूचना 1971 के अप्रैल के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हई समझी जाएगी । 

[सं० एस- 35019 ( 84 )/ 72-पी०एफ० 2 (1) ] 


8 . 0 . 3045. - In exercise of the powers conferred 
by the first proviso to section 6 of the Employees 
Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 
( 19 of 1952 ) , the Central Government, after making 
necessary enquiry into the matter , hereby specifies 
with effect from the 1st April, 1972. the establishment 
known as Messrs Mahendra J . Shah , Syrian Church 
Road , Coimbatore- I for the purposes of the said pro 
viso. 

[ No. S . 35019 ( 89) / 72-PF.II ( ii ).] 
का० प्रा०3045 - - केन्द्रीय सरकार कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 
मौर कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 
की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हुए, सम्बर विषय में आवश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात् 1 अप्रैल , 
1972 से मेसर्स महेन्द्र जे० शाह, सिरियन धर्च रोष, कोयम्बटूर- 1 
नामक स्थापन को एतद्वारा उक्त परन्तुक के प्रयोजनों के लिए 
विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 

[सं० एस० 35019 ( 89)/ 72-पी०एफ० 2( ii ) ] 


S . O . 3044. - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the cstablishment known as 
Messrs D . K . Stores Agency , 10E, Gopal Lal Tagore 
Road , Calcutta - 36 have agreed that the provisions of 
the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1962 ( 19 of 1952 ), should be made applica 
ble to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the Thirty first day of December, 1970 . 

[ No. S- 35017/ 36 / 72 -PF. II ] 
का . मा . 3044 - - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
★ कि मैसर्स जी० के० स्टोर्स एजेन्सी, 10ई , गोपाल लाल टैगोर रोड , 
कलकत्ता- 36 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों 
की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 
19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 


New Delhi, the 89rd August 1972 
S . O . 3046 . Whereas M / s. Biological Evans Limited, 
Bombay - 1 has been amalgamated with M / s. Evans 
Medical Limited , and the new company is called 

M / S. Biological Evans Limited , Das Chambers , situated 
at Dalal Street, Bombay - 1 (hereinafter referred to as 
the said establishment) ; 

And whereas the appropriate Government in respect 
of the said establishment is the Central Government 
for the purpose of grant of exerription under section 
17 of the employees Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952) as the said con 
cern has its branch at Calcutta . 

And whereas the Government of Maharashtra has 
cancelled their earlier notification No . EPF / 1165 / Lab . l , 
dated the 17th August , 1965 1ssued under Section 17 ( 1 ) 
of the Employees Provident Funds und Family Pen 
sion Fund, Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) exempting M / s. 
Biological Evans ( Pvt . ) Limited , Cooks Building , 
324, D . N . Road , Bombay vide their notification No. 
EPF / 1171 / 148743 / Lab. 1 , dated the 9th November , 
1971 to enable the Central Government to grant exemp 
tion to M / s . Biological Evans Limited , Das Chambers , 
Dalal Street , Bombay - 1 . 

And whereas in the opinion of the Central Govern 
ment, the rules of the provident fund of the said estab 
Ushment with respect of the rates of contribution are 
not less favourable to the employees therein than those 
specified in section 6 of the said Act , and the employees 
are also in enjoyment of other provident fund benefits 
which on the whole are not less favourable to the 
employees than the benefits provided under the said 
Act or under the Employees Provident Funds Scheme, 
1952 ( hereinafter reterred to as the sald Scheme ) in 
relation to the employees in any other establishment of 
a similar character : 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 17 of the 
Baid Act , and subject to the conditions specified in the 
Schedule annexed hereto , the Central Government 
hereby exempts the said establishment, with effect 
from the 10th November , 1971 from the operation of 
all the provisions of the bald Scheme and in pursuance 
of sub - section ( 3 ) of the said section 17 , the Central 
Government hereby directs that: 


प्रतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लाग करती है । 

यह अधिसूचना 1970 की दिसम्बर के इकतीसवें दिन को 
प्रवृत हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ सं० एस० 35017( 36 )/ 72-पी०एफ० 2] 


( a ) the employer in relation to the gald establish 

ment shall pay within Afteen days of the close 
of the month to the Employees Provident 
Fund , inspection charges at the rate of 0 . 09 
per cent ( zero . point zero nine per cent ) of 


. 


. - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


.. - . 


- 


- . 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


SEC. 3( i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972, ASVINA 29 , 1894 

4395 
- - .- -. -- - . - -- - - 
the pay (basic wages, dearness allulance, and the State Government has cancelled their earlier 
retaining allowance , if any, and cash value of notification dated the 17th August , 1965 vide their 
food concession admissible thereon ) for the notification No , EPF / 1171 / 148743 / Lab . 1, dated the 9th 
time being payable to the enployees of the November , 1971 to enable the appropriate Government 
suid establishment who would have become namely the Central Government to grant excinption 
members unlihe said Scheme but for this under Section 17 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Act to the newly formçu 
exemption; 

establishment M / s . Biological Evans Limited, Pas 

Chambers , Dalal Street , Bombay - l . 
(b ) the said employer shall invest the provident 

fund contributions in accordance with the Now while issuing a formal notification the Govern 
directions issued by the Central Government ment or ladla hereby makes it clear that the interests 
from time to time . 

of no person would be adversely affected by reason of 

this formal notification taking effect from 10th Novem 
THE SCIIEDULE 

ber , 1971 . 
1. The employer shall submit such returns to the 

[ No. 11 / 60 / 67- PF . 1I ] 
Regional Provident Fund Commissioner as the Central 
Government may, from time to time, prescribe . 

नई दिल्ली , 23 अगस्त 1972 
2. The employer shall furnish to each employee an 
annual Statement of Account or Pass Book , 

का० श्रा० 30 46. - - यतः मैसर्स बायलोजिकल ईवन्स 
3 . All expenses involved in the administration of the लि . मुम्बई -- 1, मैसर्स ईवन मैडिकल लि . के साथ समामेलित 
Fund including the maintenance of accounts , submis 
sion of accounts and retuns, tranfer of accumula 

हो गई है और नई क पनी का नाम मैमर्म बायलोजिकाल ईवन्म 
tions, payment of Inspection charges etc ., shall be borne लि , दास चैम्बर्ग , दलाल स्ट्रीट पर स्थित , मम्बई - 1 ( जिसे इसमें 
by the employer. 

इसके पश्चात् उक्त स्थापन हा गया है ) हो गया है ; 
4 . The employer shall display on the Notice Board 
of the establishment a copy of the rules of the Fund 
as approved by the appropriate Government and , as , 

पौर यतः कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटम्ब पेंशन निधि 
and when amended , along with a translation of the 
salient points thereof in the language of the majority of 

अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19) की धारा 17 के अधीन 
the employees. 

छट मन्जूर करने के प्रयोजन के लिए, चूंकि उक्त समुत्थान की 
5 . Where an employee who is already member of the 

गारवा कलकत्ते में है उक्त प्रशासन के संबंध में समचित सरकार 
Employees Provident Fund ( Statutory Fund ) or the 
Provident Fund of another exempted establishment is केन्द्रीय सरकार है । 
employed in his establishment, the employer shall 
Immediately enrol him as a member of the Fund of the 
establishment, and accept the past accumulations in 

और यतः महाराष्ट्र सरकार ने कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और 
respect of such employee and creclit to his account. 

कुटम्ब पगन निधि पधिनियम , 195:2 ( 1952 का 19 ) की 
6 . The employer shall enhance the rate of provident 
fund contribution appropriately if the rate of provi 

धारा 17 ( 1 ) के अधीन जारी की गई अपनी पूर्वतर अधिसूचना 
dent fund contributions for the class of establishments 

स० ई० पी०एफ० 1165 / श्रम - 1, तारीख 17 अगस्त , 1965 , 
in which his establishment falls is enhanced under the 
Employees Provident Funds and Family Fersion Fund जिसमें अपनी अधिसूचना सं० ई० पी० एफ० 1171 / 148743 
Act , 1952 so that the benefits under the provident fund 
scheme of the establishment shall not become less अम - 1, तारीख 9 नवम्बर, 1971 के अनुसार की गई मैसर्स 
favourable than the benefit provided under the Em 
ployees Provident Funds and Family Perisdon Fund 

बायलोजिकल ईन्स ( प्रा . ) लिमिटेड , कुक्स बिल्डिंग , 3 24 , 
Act , 1952. 

डी . ए. रोड, मुम्बई को छूट देने वाली अधिसूचना , केन्द्रीय 
7 . The establishment shall submit an audited balance सरकार को मैसर्स बायलोजिकल ईवन्स लिमिटेड , दाम चैम्बर , 
sheet of its provident fund every year to the Regional 
Provident Fund Commissioner within 3 months of the दलाल स्ट्रोट , मम्बई - 1 को छट देने को सक्षम बनाने के लिए 
close of the year , 

रद्द कर दिया था । 
8 . No amendment of the rules of the provident fund 
shall be made without the previous approval of the 
Central Provident Fund Commissioner . Where any 

और पतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय में अभिदाय की दरों की 
amendment is likely to alect adversely the interests 
of the employees, the Central Provident Fund Commis 

बाबत उक्त स्थापन के भविष्य निधि निमन उसके कर्मचारियां 
Bloner shall, before giving his approval, give a reason 
able opportunity to the employees to explain their 

के लिए उन विमा से कम प्राकून नहीं हैं जो उन अधिनियम को 
point of view . 

धारा 6 में विनिर्दिष्ट हैं , और कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि को अन्य 
Memorandum. 

प्रसविधाएं भी पा रहे हैं , जो कर्मचारियों के लिए कुल मिलाकर 

उन प्रसुविधाओं मे कम अनुकुल नहीं हैं , जो , उसी प्रकार के किमी 
M / 8 . Biological Evans Limited , Cooks Building , 
324 , D . N . Road , Bombay is a covered establishment 

अन्य स्थान के कर्मचारियों के संबंध में , उक्त अधियम के 
under the Employees Provident Funds & Family Pen 

अधीन और कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि स्कीम , 1952 (जिन इसमें 
sion Fund Act , 1952. The State Government of Maha 
rashtra vide their notification No . EPF / 1165 / LAB / 1 , इसके पश्चात् उक्त स्कीम कहा गया है ) के अधीन दी जाती है ; 
dated the 17th August, 1965 granted exemption under 
Section 17 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Act to the above cstablishment. 
Consequent on the company s shifting of the office and 

प्रतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 17 की उपधाग ( 1 ) 
amalgamation with M / s . Evans Medical Ltd ., Bombay 
the whole office is housed at Das Chambers , Dalal के खण्ड ( क ) द्वारा प्रदत शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और इसमे 
Street, Bombay and acquired net work of branches 
departments in different States. This has changed the 

उमाबद्ध अन्मुची में विनिर्दिष्ट शतों के अधीन रहते हार , केन्द । । 
status of the establishment so far as the appropriate 
Government under Section 2 ( a ) of the Act is concerned 

सरकार उक्त स्थापन को उक्त स्कीम के सभी उपबन्धों के प्रवर्तन 


4396 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART fl 


से एतदद्वारा 10 नवम्बर , 1971 से छूट देती है और उक्त धारा 
17 को उपधारा ( 3 ) के अनमरण में केन्द्रीय सरकार एतवाग 
निदेश देती है कि - - 
( क ) उक्त स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक उक्त स्थापन 

के उन कर्मचारियों को , जो यदि छट न दी गई 
होती तो , उक्त स्कीम के अधीन सदस्य हो गए 
होते , तत्समय देय वेतन के ( आधारिक मजदूरी, 
महंगाई भत्ता , प्रतिधारण भत्ता , यदि कोई हो , 

और उस पर अनुज्ञेय खाद्य रियायत का नाद 
मुल्य ) 0 . 09 ( शन्य दशमलव शन्य नौ प्रतिशत ) 
की दर से निरीक्षण-प्रभार मासान्त के पन्द्रह 
दिन के भीतर कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि को देगा : 


नियोजक भविष्य निधि के अभिदायों की दर मचित 
___ रूप से बढ़ा देगा ताकि स्थापन की भविष्य निधि स्कीम 

के अधीन की प्रसुविधाएं उन प्रसुविधामों से कम 
अनुकल न हो जाएं जिनकी व्यवस्था कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटान्न पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 

के अधीन है । 
7. स्थापन अपनी भविष्य निधि का संपरीक्षित तुलन-पत्र 

हर वर्ष प्रादेशिक भविष्य निधि आयुक्त को वर्षान्त 
के तीन मास के भीतर भेजेगा । 


( ख ) उक्त नियोजक भविष्य निधि अभिदायों को , 

केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा समय समय पर निकाले गए 
निदेशों के अनुमार, विनिहित करेगा । 


निधि प्रायुक्त के पूर्व अनुमोदन के बिना में किया 
जाएगा । जहां किसी संशोधन से कर्मचारियों के हितों 
पर प्रतिकूल प्रभाव पड़ना सभाव्य हो वहां केन्द्रीय 
भविष्य निधि आयुक्त , अपना अनुमोदन देने से पूर्व , 
कर्मचारियों को अपना दृष्टिकोण स्पष्ट करने का 
युक्तियुक्त अवसर देगा । 


अनुसूची 
1 . नियोजक प्रादेशिक भविष्य निधि आयुक्त को वे विवर . 

णियां भेजेगा जिन्हें केन्द्रीय सरकार समय समय पर 

विहित करे । 
2. नियोजक प्रत्येक कर्मचारी को वार्षिक लेखा-विवरण या 

पास बुक भेजेगा । 


ज्ञापन 


3. निधि के प्रशासन , जिसमें लेखाओं का बनाए रखना , 

लेखानों और विवरणियों का भेजा जाना, संचयों का 
अन्तरण ,निरीक्षण-प्रभारों आदि का संदाय सम्मिलित 
हैं , में अन्तलित सभी व्ययों का वहन नियोजक द्वारा 
किया जाएगा । 


4. नियोजक ममुचित सरकार द्वारा अनुमोदित निधि के 

नियमों की एक प्रति स्थापन के सूचना -पट्ट पर प्रदर्शित 
करेगा और जब कभी उनमें संशोधन किया जाएगा 
तर कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या की भाषा में उसकी 

मुराय मुख्य बातों का अनुवाद भी प्रदर्शित करेगा । 
5 . यदि कोई ऐसा कर्मचारी, जो कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 

( कानूनी निधि ) या छुट - प्राप्त किसी अन्य स्थापन 
की भविष्य निधि का पहले ही से सदस्य है, उसके 
स्थापन में नियोजित होता है तो नियोजक स्थापन की 
निधि के सदस्य के रूप में उसका नाम तुरंत ही दर्ज 
करेगा और ऐसे कर्मचारी की बाबत उसके पिछले 
संचयों को स्वीकार कर के उन्हें उसके खाते में जमा 
करेगा । 


मैसर्स बायलोजिकल ईवन्स लिमिटेड, कुक्स बिल्डिंग , 324 , 
डी० एन० रोड, मुम्बई, कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब 
पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 के अधीन आने वाला स्थापन है । 
महाराष्ट्र सरकार ने अपनी अधिसूचना संख्या ई० पी० एफ० 
1165/ श्रम / 1, तारीख 17 अगस्त , 1965 के अनुमार उक्त 
अधिनियम की धारा 17 ( 1 ) ( क ) के अधीन उक्त स्थापन को 
छूट दी थी । कम्पनी के कार्यालय का स्थान परिवर्तित हो जाने 
तथा मैसर्स ईवन्स मैडिकल लिमिटेड, मुम्बई के साथ समामेलित 
हो जाने के परिणामस्वरूप सम्पूर्ण कार्यालय दाम चैम्बर्स, दलाल 
स्ट्रोट , मुम्बई में आ गया है और विभिन्न राज्यों में की शाखाओं/विभागों 
का पूरा कार्य होता है । इसमे , जहां तक अधिनियम की धारा 2 ( क ) के 
अधीन समुचित सरकार का संबंध है, स्थापना की हैसियत बदल गई 
है और समुचित सरकार को समर्थ बनाने के लिए, अर्थात् केन्द्रीय 
सरकार को नवीन रूप से गठित स्थापन मैलर्स बायलोजिकल ईवन्स 
लिमिटेड, दाम चैम्बर्स , दलाल स्ट्रीट , मुम्बई- 1 को अधिनियम की 
धारा 17 ( 1 ) ( क ) के अधीन छूट देने के लिए, राज्य सरकार ने 
अपनी अधिसूचना संख्या ई० पी० एफ० 1171/ 148743/ श्रम- 1, 
तारीख 9 नवम्बर , 1971 के अनुमार तारीख 17 अगस्त , 1965 
बाली अपनी पूर्वतर अधिसूचना को रद्द कर दिया है । 


6. यदि उस वग के स्थापनों के लिए , जिसमें नियोजक का 

स्थापनाता है, भविष्य निधि के अभिदायों की दर 
कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि 
अधिनियम , 1952 के अधीन बढ़ा दी जाए तो 


अब , एक प्रस पिक अधिप नना जारी करके केन्द्रीय सरकार , 
एतद्वारा , यह स्पष्ट करती है कि इस प्रलपिक अधिसूचना के 
तारीख 10 नवम्बर, 1971 से प्रभावी होने के कारण किसी भी 
व्यक्ति के हितों पर कोई प्रतिकूल प्रभाव नहीं पड़ेगा । 

[सं० 11/ 60/ 67-पी०एफ० 2 ] 


SEC. 3( 1) ]] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 . ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4397 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


-- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- - - - 


- - - 


New Delhi, the 26th August 1972 
S . 0 . 30477 . - -.In pursuance of Clause ( a ) of suh- para 
graph ( 1 ) of paragraph 4 of the Employees Provident 
Funds Scheme, 1952, the Central Government hereby 
appoints the Secretary to the Government of Tamil 
Nadu , Labour and Employment Department, as the 
Chairman of the Regional Committee set up for the 
State of Tamil Nadu and makes the following further 
amendment in the notification of the Government of 
India in the late Ministry of Labour No. SRO 3381, 
dated the 2nd November , 1954 , namely :- -- 

In the said notifcation , against item 1, for the exist 
ing entry in the first column , the following entry shall 
be substituted , namely : 
" The Secretary to the Government of Tamil Nadu , 
Labour and Employment Department . Madras. " 

[ No. 12 (8 ) /64 -PF . 11 (I). ] 


अधिसूचना संख्या का० प्रा० 2412 तारीख 6 जुलाई, 1970 
में निम्नलिखित पीर संशोधन करती है , अर्थात् : --- 

उक्त अधिसूचना में , मद 12 के सामने , प्रथम स्थम्भ में 
विद्यमान प्रविष्टि के स्थान पर, निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टि रखी जाएगी , 
अर्थात्: 
" सचिव, तामिलनाडु सरकार, श्रम और रोजगार विभाग , 
मद्रास । " 

[संख्या 12( 5 )/ 69 - पी एफ० ( 2) ] 


नई दिल्ली , 26 अगस्त 1972 


का० ० 3047 कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि स्कीम , 1952 
के पैरा 4 के उपपैरा ( 1 ) के खंड ( क ) के अनुसरण में केन्द्रीय सर 
कार , तमिलनाडु मरकार के श्रम और रोजगार विभाग के सचिव 
को तामिलनाइ राज्य के लिये गठित क्षेत्रीय ममिति के अध्यक्ष 
के रूप में नियुक्त करती है और भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व 
श्रम मंत्रालय को अधिसूचना संख्या का० नि० प्रा० 3381, 
तारीख 2 नवम्बर , 1954 में निम्नलिखित और संशोधन करती 
है ; अर्थात् : - - 

उक्त अधिसूचना में , मद 1 के मामने , विद्यमान प्रविष्टि 
के स्थान पर निम्निलिखित प्रविष्टि रखी जाएगी , अर्थात : 
" सचिव , तामिलनाडु सरकार, श्रम और रोजगार विभाग , 

मद्रास । " 
[ सं० 12 ( 8 ) / 64-पी० एफ० 2 (ii ) ] 


New Delhi, the 28th August 1972 
S . O . 3049. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Doulat and Company, Siddiamber Bazar , Hyde 
rabad , Andhra Pradesh have agreed that the provisions 
of the Employees Provident Funds and Famlly Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable 
to the said establishment; 

Now . therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notiAcation shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of February , 1972. 

[ No. S. 35019 ( 63 ) / 72 - PF .II . ] 


नई दिल्ली , 28 अगस्त , 1972 
का० प्रा० 3049 . -- यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह 
प्रतीत होता है कि मैसर्स दौलत एण्ड कम्पनी ,सिद्दी अम्बर बाजार , 
हैदराबाद , आंध्र प्रदेश नामक स्थापनन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और 
कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्म 
चारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 
( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने 
चाहिए । 


अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती 


S . O . 3048 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause ( c ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 5A of the Em 
ployees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fnud Act , 
1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) the Central Government hereby ap 
points the Secretary to the Government of Tamil Nadu , 
Labour and Employment Department, as member of the 
Central Board of Tristees , and makes the following fur 
ther amendment in the notiAcation of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Labour. Employment and 
Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employ 
ment ) No. S . O . 2412, dated the 6th July , 1970, namely : . 

In the said notification against item 12 . for the exist 
ing entry in the first column, the following entry shall 
be substituted , namely : --- 
" The Secretary to the Government of Tamil Nadu , 
Lahour and Employment Department, Madras. " 

___ INo. 12 (5) / 69- PF . IJ. ] 
का० प्रा० 3048 कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब 
पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 195 ? ( 1952 का 19 ) की धारा 
5 क की उपधारा ( 1 ) के रखंड ( ग ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का 
प्रयोग करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार , तामिलनाडु सरकार के श्रम 

और रोजगार विभाग के सचिव को केन्द्रीय न्यासी बोर्ड के सदस्य 
के रूप में एतद्द्वारा नियुक्त करती है, और भारत सरकार के श्रम , 


___ यह अधिसूचना 1972 के फरवरी के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[सं० एम० 35019( 63 )/ 72-पी०एथ०- 2] 


S . O . 3050 . — In exercise of the powers confered by 
the first proviso to section 6 of the Employees Provi 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 10 of 
1952 ) , the Central Government, after making necessary 
enquiry into the matter. hereby specifles with effect 
from the 1st December , 1970 the establishment known 
as Messrs B. G . Shirke and Company, 1205, Apte Road , 
Poona- 4 for the purposes of the said proviso . 

[ No. S . 35019 ( 25 ) / 71 - PF . II (11). ] 


4398 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II 


-- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


का० आ० 30 50 . - केन्द्रीय सरकार कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 
का 19 ) की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का 
प्रयोग करते हुए, सम्बद्ध विषय में श्रावश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात् 
1 दिसम्बर 1970 में श्री० जी० शिरके एण्ड कम्पनी , 1205, 
प्राप्टे रोड , पूना - 4 नामक स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा उक्त परन्तुक 
के प्रयोजनों के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 

[ सं० एस०- 35019( 25 )/ 71-पी० एफ० 2( ii )] 


का० प्रा० 3052. - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैमर्म गांधी या ट्रेडिंग कम्पनी , अश्विनी कुमार रोड , 
मूरत - 3 नामक स्थापन मे सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों 
की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 
का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 को उपधारा 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 के अप्रैल के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ सं० एम० - 350 19 ( 92 )/ 72-पी० एफ० 2] 


S . O . 3051 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Industrial Trading Company , 147, M , G Road , 
Fort Bombay - 1 have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act , 1952 (19 of 1952) , should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section ( 4 ) of section of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the zaid establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty -first day of December , 1971. 

[ No. S. 35018( 57) / 72- PF . II . ] 
का० आ० 305 1 . - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स छन्डस्ट्रियल ट्रेडिंग कम्पनी , 147, एम० जी० 
रोड , फोर्ट मुम्बई- 1, नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्म 
चारियों की बहसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी 
भविष्य निधि और कूटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 
का 19 ) का उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 


S . O . 3053.- - Whereas it appears 10 the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs T . C . Modi Processing Works, Ashwini Kumar 
Road , Surat - 3 have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in cxercise of the powers conferred 
by sub -section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Antral Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
frince on the first day of April, 1971 . 

[ No. S. 35019/ 91 / 72- PF. II.] 
का० आ . 30 53. - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैमर्स टी० सी० मोदी प्रोसेसिंग वर्क्स, अश्विनी कुमार 
रोड , भूरत - 3 नामक स्थापन मे मंबद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारयों 
की बहसंख्या इम बात पर महमत हो गई है कि कर्मनारी भविष्य 
मिधि और कुटुम्ब पंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 195 2 
का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लाग किए जाने चाहिए ; 
अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधि 
नियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन्न को एतद्द्वारा लाग करती है । 

यह अधिसूचना 1971 अप्रैल के प्रथम दिन को प्रवन हुई 
समझी जाएगी । 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधाग ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लाग करती 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 के दिसम्बर के इकत्तीसवें दिन को 
प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 


[सं० एस० 35018 ( 57 ) / 72-पी०एफ० 2 ] 


[सं० एम० 35019( 91 )/ 72 -पी० एफ० 2] 


S . O . 3082, - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Gandhi Yarn Trading Company , Ashwinikumar 
Road, Surat - 3 have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now , therelore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - sectlon ( 4 ) of section 1 of the sald Act , the 
Central Government hereby Applles the provisions of 
the said Act to the sald establishment. 


S . O . 3054 . – Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 

Messrs Synthetic Products Corporation 64 - A , N . I. T . 
Faridabad have agreed that the provisions of the Em 
ployees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 _ ot 1952 ) , should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
torce on the first day of January. 1970 . 


This notifcation shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April, 1971. 

[ No. S . 35019 / 92 / 72 - PF . II . ] 


[ No . 8 / 100 / 70- PF .II (1) .] 


SEC. 3( 1) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4399 


का० प्रा० 3054, - - प्रतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को पह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैपर्म सिन्थेटिक प्रोडक्टम कार्पोरेशन , 64 - एन० आई० 
टो० फरीदाबाद नामक स्थापन में सम्बदध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों 
को बहुसंख्या इस बात पर महमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि प्रौर कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 
के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 

अतः, अब, उत पापम को धारा ( 1 ) को उपधारा 4 
द्वारा प्रदान गतिमा काम करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एनद्वारा लागू करतो है 
यह अधिसूचना 1970 के जनवरी के प्रथम दिन को प्रात 
हुई ममझो जाएगो । 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 को उपधारा ( 4 ) 
वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हर केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एनद्वारा लागू करती है । 

यह अधिसूचना 1970 के अप्रैल के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जायगी । 


[ मं० एस - 35019 ( 175 )171 - पी एफ 2 ( i ) ] 


[ पं० 8/ 100/ 70 -पी० एफ - 2 (i )] 


S . O . 3057 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the first proviso to section 8 of the Employees Provi 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 
of 1952, the Central Government, after making neces 
sary enquiry into the matter, hereby specifics with 
effect from the 1st April 1970 the establishment 
known as Messrs WMI DELHI (PRIVATE ) Limited , 
E - 2, Defence Colony , New Delhi for the purposes of 
the said proviso . 

[ No . S.35019/ 175 / 71- PF. II ( ii ) . ] 


8 , 0 , 3055 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the Arst proviso to section of the Employees Provi 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952 ) , the Central Government , after making necessary 
enquiry into the matter hereby specifies with effect 
from the 1st January , 1970 the establishment krown 
as Messrs Synthetic Products Corporation , 64 - A , N . I, T ., 
Faridabad for the purposes of the said proviso . 

[ No. 8 / 100 / 70 - PF.II (11). ] 
का० प्रा० 3055. -- - केन्द्रीय सरकार कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 
और कदम्ब गन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 
को धारा 6 के प्रथप परन्तुक द्वारा प्रानों का प्रमोश 
करते हर , सम्बदध विषय में प्रावश्यक जांशो के सवान 
1 जनवरी, 1970 से मै पर्म लिन्थेटिक प्रोडक्टम कार्पोरेशन, 64 - 
एन० आई० टो० फरीदाबाद नामक स्थान से नदद्वारा उन 
परन्तु फ के पयो नतों के लिए प्रिनिदिष्ट करनी है । 


का० प्रा० 305 7. - केन्द्रीय सरकार कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटुम्ब में शन निधि अधिनियम, 1952 ( 195 2 का 19 ) 
को धारा के उपम परन्तु द्वारा प्रदान गस्तियों का मोग करने 
हर, सम्यन्ध विषय में आवश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात 1 अप्रैल , 
1970 में मैनर्स डब्ल्यू एम आई देह नो (प्रा० ) लिमिटेड, ई - 2, 
उिस फालोतो, न्यू दिल्ली नामक स्थान को झारा उक्त 
परत के प्रयोजनों के निरनिनिर्दिष्ट करनी है । 


[ सं० 8/ 100/ 70- पो एफ० - 2 ( ii ) ] 


( सं० एम० 350 19 ( 175 )/ 71 -मो० एकर 2( ii ) 


$ . 0 . 3056 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Goy 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs WMI DELHI ( PRIVATE) , LIMITED, E - 2 , 
Defence Colony, New Delhi have agreed that the 
provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , should 
ho 17711c applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub -section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment, 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April, 1970 . 


[ No . S. 35019 / 175 / 71 - PF .II ( i) . ] 


S . O . 3058 .- Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Vishnu Textiles, Gandhi Colony, Ashivini 
kumar Road , Strat 3 have agreed that the provisions 
of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pen 
sion Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made 
applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applics the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April, 1971 , 


होता है कि पैटर्म उच्य एम पाई देहली ( प्रा . ) लिमिटेड , ई - 2 , 
रिफंप कालोनी, न्य दिल्ली नामक स्थान से सम्बद्ध नियोनकों और 
कर्मचारियों की बहसंख्या इस बात पर महमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी 
भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 
का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लाग किए जाने चाहिए ; 


INo. S. 35019 ( 93 ) /72- PF .II . ] 


10 


4400 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 

[ PART II 

- - - - 
का० प्रा० 3058 . - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 

S . 0 . 3060 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 

ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
होना है कि मैसर्स विष्णु टैक्स टाइल्म, गांधी कालोनी, अश्विनी 

employees in relation to the establishment known as 

Messrs L . Abdur Rahaman Khan and Sons, Dhone , 
कुमार रोड, सूरत 3 नामक स्थापन मे सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और 

Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 

Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , should be made applicable to 
कमचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर पहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी 

the said establishment: 
भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम, 1952 Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 

by sub -section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
( 1952 का 19) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 

the said Act to the said establlshment. 
चाहिए ; 

This notifcation shall be deemed to have come into 

force on the thirty first day of January , 1908 . 
अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 को उपधारा ( 4 ) 

[ No . 8 ( 61 ) / 68 - PF . II . ] 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हूए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एनद्वारा लागु करती है । 

का ० पा ० 3060. - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
यह अधिसूचना 1971 के अप्रैल, के प्रथम दिन को प्रवन 

है कि मसर्स एल ० अब्दुर रहमान खान एण्ड सन्स , ढोन , करनौल 
हई ममझो जायगो । 

( डिस्ट्रिक्ट ) नामक स्थापन्न से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और कर्मचारियों 

की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर महमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य 
[ मं० ए० 350 19 ( 23 ) / 72-मो० एक . 2] 

निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 

19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 
S . O . 3059. — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov ___ अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम , की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 

द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधि 
Messrs A . V . M . Marimuthu Nadar and Sons, Sri 
Meenakashi Oil Mills , 109 - A , Ettayapuram Road , Tuti 

नियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 
corin - 2 Tamilnadu have agreed that the provisions of 
the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable 

यह अधिसूचना 1968 के जनवरी के इक्तीसवें दिन को प्रवृत्त 
to the said establishment; 

हुई समझी जायगी । 
Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section (4 ) of section 1 of the said Act the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

[सं० 8( 61)/ 68 - पी ० एफ ० 2] 
This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of March, 1970 . 

S . O , 3061 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
[ No . 8 / 161 / 70 - PF, II . ] ernment that the employer and the majority of the 

employees in relation to the establishment known as 

Messrs A. V . Meyyappan, 38 , Arcot Road , Madras - 26 
का पा ० 305 9. - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 

have agreed that the provisions of the Employees 

Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 
है कि मसर्स ए ० बी० एम ० मरियुथु, नाडार एण्ड सन्स , श्री मीनाक्षी (19 of 1952) , should be made applicable to the said 

establishment ; 
प्रायल मिल्स , 109-ए,इट्टायापुरम रोड, तूतीकोरन - 2, तमिलनाडु 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
नामक स्थान से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या by sub -section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 

Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और the said Act to the said establishment. 
कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम, 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के This notification shall be deemed to have come into 

force on the first day of February , 1972. 
उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिएं : 

[ No. S. 35019 ( 30) / 72- PF . II (1). ] 


प्रतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधि 
नियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थानपन्न को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 

यह अधिसूचना 1970 के मार्च के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई 
समझी जायेंगी । 


का ० पा ० 306 1. -- यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैसर्स ए ०वी ० मेयापन, 38, प्रारकोट रोड, मद्रास - 26 नामक 
स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात 
पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कूटम्ब पेंशन 
निधि अधिनियम , 195 2 ( 1952 का 19) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन 
को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 


SEC . 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBFR 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29, 1894 


4401 


अंतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधि 
नियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती है । 


यह अधिसूचना 1970 के दिसम्बर, के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जायगी । 


[ सं० एस - 35019 ( 25 )/ 71 — पी एफ 2(i )] 


___ यह अधिसूचना 1972 को फरवरी, के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जायगी । 


[सं० एस - 35019( 30 )/ 72– पी ० एफ ० 2(i) ] 


S . O . 3062. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the 
first proviso to section 6 of the Employees Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 (19 of 1952 ) , 
the Central Government after making necessary enqui 
ry into the matter , hereby specifies with cffect from 
the 1st February, 1972 the establishment known as 
Messrs A . V . Meyyappan, 38, Arrot Road, Madras- 28 
for the purposes of the said proviso . 

[ No. S . 35019 ( 30 ) / 72 - PF. II (ii) . ] 


S . O . 3064 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
the Pondicherry State Cooperative Land Mortgage 
Bank Limited , Bussy Street , Pondicherry have agreed 
that the provisions of the Employees Provident Fundis 
and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , should 
be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub- section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April, 1972 . 

[ No, S. 35019 / 96 / 72- PF . II . ] 


का पा ०30 6 2. - केन्द्रीय सरकार कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 
और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 
की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हुए, सम्बद्ध विषय में आवश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात 1 फरवरी 
1972 से ए० वी ० मयापन 38, प्रारकोट रोड , मद्रास - 26 नामक 
स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा उक्न परन्तुक के प्रयोजनों के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट 
करती है । 


का० प्रा० 3064. - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि दो पाण्डचेरी स्टेट को - आपरेटिव लैण्ड मार्गेज बैंक लिमिटेड 
बुस्सी स्ट्रीट पाण्डुचेरी नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और 
कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी 
भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब मेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 
का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन्न को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 

प्रतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 


[ सं० एस० 35019( 30) / 72- पी एफ 2 (ii) ] 


नियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है ; 


समझी जायगी । 


S . O . 3063 , - -Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs B. G . Shirke and Company , 1205, Apte Road, 
Poona -4 have agreed that the provisions of the Em 
ployees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of December , 1970 . 


[ सं० एस० - 350 19( 96)/ 72-पी० एफ० 2] 


[ No , S . 35019 ( 25 ) / 71 - PF. II (i ). ] 


का ० प्रा० 306 : . - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैसर्स बी ० जी० शिरके एण्ड कम्पनी, 1205, आप्टे रोड 
पूना - 4 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की 
बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कूटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 
19) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 


S . O . 3065 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Shere Punjab Co -operative Transport Society , 
Limited , 233, Kamla Market, New Delhi including its 
branches at ( i) Delivery Godown, Ramnagar , Delhi (ii ) 
Townshop, No. 2 Faridabad and ( ili) Ballabgarh , Har 
yana have agreed that the provisions of the Employees 
Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 
( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said 
establishment; 


अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लागू करती है । 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of December , 1971. 

[ No. S. 35019 ( 90 ) / 72- PF . II (1) .] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 

( PART 11 --- 

- - -. . - - - - - -.. .- . 
का० प्रा० 3063 - -घत. केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 

S . O . 3067 , - Whereas Messrs The Original Fire and 

General Insurance Company Limited , Oriental Build 
है कि मैसर्स शेरे पंजाब कोप्रापरेटिव ट्रांसपोर्ट , लिमिटेड , 233 , 

ing, Mahatma Ghandi Road , Bombay - 1 , ( hereinafter 

referred to as the said establishment) has applied for 
कमला मार्केट, नई दिल्ली, जिसमें इसकी (i ) डिलीवरी गोडाउन 

exemption under clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of sec 
tion 17 of the Employees Provident Funds and Family 

Pension Fund Act, 1952 (18 of 1952 ) ; 
जामनगर, दिल्ली , ( ii) टाउनशीप सं० 2, फरीदाबाद और ( iii ) 

And whereas in the opinion of the Central Govern 
बल्लभगढ़ हरयाणा में की शाखाएं भी सम्मिलित हैं , नामक स्थापन ment, the rules of the provident fund of the said estab 

lishment with respect to the rates of contribution are 
से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर not less lavourable to the employees therein than those 

specified in section 6 of the said Act, and the employees 
सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटम्ब पेंशन are also in enjoyment of other provident fund benefits 

which on the whole are not less favourable to the ein 
निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन ployees than the benefits provided under the said Act 

or under the Employees Provident Funds Scheme, 1952 
को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 

(hereinafter referred to as the said Scheme) in relation 
to the employees in any other establishment of a simi 

lar character ; 
अतः , प्रब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधि by clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 17 of the 

said Act, and subject to the conditions specified in the 
नियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 

Schedule annexed hereto , the Central Government 
hereby exempts the said establishment from the opera 

tion of all the provisions of the said Scheme and in 
__ यह अधिसूचना 1971 के दिसम्बर, के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 

pursuance of sub -sectlon ( 3 ) of the said section 17 , the 

Central Government hereby directs that, - , 
हुई समझी जायगी । 

( a ) the employer in relation to the said establish 
[ सं० एस-- 35019( 90 )/ 72 - पी एफ 2 (i) ] 

ment shall pay within Afteen days of the close 
of the month to the Employees Provident 

Fund , inspection charges at the rate of 0 .09 
S . O . 3066 .- _ Whereas it appears to the Central Govern 

per cent (zero point zero nine per cent) of the 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em 

pay ( basic wages , dearness allowance, retain 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as the 

ing allowance, if any , and cash value of food 
Messrs Dada and Company, 49 - Old Tharagupet Banga 

concession admissible thereon ) for the time 
lore -2A have agreed that the provisions of the Em 

being payable to the employees of tne said 
ployees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 

establishment who would have become riem 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to 

bers under the said Scheme but for this exemp 
the said establishment ; 

tion ; 
Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 

( b ) the said employer shall invest the provident 

fund contributions in accordance with the 
by sub- section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 

directions issued by the Central Government 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

from time to time. 
This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the Arst day of May, 1972 . 

THE SCHEDULE 
[ No . S. 35019 ( 88) / 72- PF . II. ] 

1 . The employer shall submit such rcturns to the 

Regional Provident Fund Commissioner as the 
का० प्रा० 3066. - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 

Central Government may , from time to time, 

prescribe. 
है कि मैसर्स दादा एण्ड कम्पनी , 49 - अोल्ड थरागुपेट, बंगलौर , 

2 . The employer shall furnish to each employee 
2 ए नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की 

an Annual Statement of Account or Pas3 Book . 

3 . All expenses involved in the administration of 
बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 

the Fund including the maintenance of 

accounts , submission of accounts and returns, 
पौर कुटुम्बपेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 

transfer of accumulations, jayment of inspec 

tion charges etc . , shall be borne by the em 
के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 

ployer , 


4 .4 The employer shall display on the Notice Board 


अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थान को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती 


Fund as approved by the appropriate Govern 
ment and , as and when amended , alonpwith a 
translation of the salient points thereof in the 
language of the majority of the emcloyees . 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 की मई के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई 
समझी जायगी । 

[ म . एम -3501 9( 488)/ 72-पी० एफ० 2] 


5 . Where an employee who is already i amter of 

the Employees Provident Fund ( Statutory 
Fund ) or the Provident Fund of another ex 
empted establishment is employed in his 
establishment, the employer shall immediately 
enrol him as a member of the Fund of the 
establishment, and accept the past accumula 
tions in respect of such employee arid credit 
to his account. 


Sms. 360 ] 


TH . GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4408 


6 . The employer shall enhance the rate of provi 

dent fund contribution appropriately if the 
rate of provident fund contributions for the 
class of establishments in which his establish 
ment falls is enhanced under the Employees 
Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act , 1952 so that the benefits under the provi 
dent fund scheme of the establishment shall 
not become less favourable than the benefit 
provided under the Employees Provident 

Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952. 
7. The establishment shall submit an audited 

balance sheet of its provident fund every year 
to the Regional Provident Fund Commissioner 

within 3 months of the close of the year . 
8 . No amendment of the rules of the provident 

fund shall be made without the previous 
approval of the Central Provident Fund Com 
missioner . Where any amendment i Ukely to 
affect , adversely the interests of the employees , 
the Central Provident Fund Commissioner 
ghall before giving his approval, glve a 
able opportunity to the employees to explain 
their point of view . 

INo . S.- 35014 / 21 / 72 / PF -II .] 


की दर से निरीक्षण -प्रभार मास के अन्त के पन्द्रह 

दिन के भीतर कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि को देमा ; 
( ख ) उक्त नियोजक भविष्य निधि अभिदायों को , 

केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा समय - समय पर निकाले 
गए निदेशों के अनुसार, विनिहित करेगा । 

अनुसूची 
1. नियोजक प्रादेशिक भविष्य निधि प्रायुक्त को वे विवरणियां 
भेजेगा जिन्हे केन्द्रीय सरकार समय - समय पर विहित करे । 

2. नियोजक प्रत्येक कर्मचारी को वार्षिक लेखा -~-विवरण 
या पास बुक भेजेगा । 

3. निधि के प्रशासन , जिसमें लेखानों का बनाए रखना ; 
लेखानों की विवरणियों का भेजा जाना , संचयों का प्रत्यारण , 
निरीक्षण-प्रभारों आदि का संदाय सम्मिलित हैं , में अन्सवलित सभी 
म्ययों का वहन नियोजक द्वारा किया जाएगा । 
____ 4. नियोजक समुचित सरकार द्वारा अनुमोदित निधि के 
नियमों की एक प्रतिस्थापन के सूचना -पट्ट पर प्रशित करेगा 
और जब कभी उनमें संशोधन किया जाएगा तब कर्मचारियों की 
बहसंख्या की भाषा में उसकी मुख्य- मुख्य बातों का अनुवाद भी 
प्रदर्शित करेगा । 


5. यदि कोई ऐसा कर्मचारी , जो कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 
( काननी निधि ) या छट प्राप्त किसी अन्य स्थापन की भविष्य 
निधि का पहले ही से सदस्य है, उसके स्थापन में नियोजित होता 
है तो नियोजक स्थापन की निधि के सदस्य के रूप में उसका नाम 
तुरन्त ही दर्ज करेगा और ऐसे कर्मचारी की बाबत उसके पिछले 
संचयों को स्वीकार करके उन्हे उसके खाते में जमा करेगा । 


मा० मा० 3067. - - यत : मैसर्स वी प्रोरियन्टल फायर एंड 
जनरल इन्स्योरेन्स कम्पनी लिमिटेड , मोरियन्टल बिलिंग , महात्मा 
गान्धी रोड, मुम्बई - - 1 (जिसे इसके इसमें पश्चात् उक्त स्थापन 
माहा गया है ) ने कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुदम्ब पेंशन निधि 
मधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) (जिसे इसमें इसके पश्चात 
उक्त अधिनियम कहा गया है ) की धारा 17 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के 
खंड ( क ) के अधीन छूट देने के लिए पावेवन किया वे ; 

पौर यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय में प्रभिदाय की दरों की 
बाबत उक्त स्थापन के भविष्य निधि नियम उसके कर्मचारियों 
के लिए उन नियमों से कम अनुकूल नहीं हैं जो उक्त अधिनियम 
की धारा 8 में विनिर्दिष्ट है और कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि की अन्य 
प्रसुविधाए भी पा रहे हैं जो कर्मचारियों के लिए कुल मिलाकर 
उन प्रसुविधाओं से कम अनुकूल नहीं है , जो , उसी प्रकार के किसी 
अन्य स्थापन के कर्मचारियों के संबंध में , उक्त अधिनियम के अधीन 
मोर कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि स्कीम , 1952 (जिसे इसमें इसके 
पश्चात् उक्त स्कीम कहा गया है ) के अधीन दी जाती है ; 

प्रत : मब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 17 की उपधारा ( 1 ) 
के खंड ( क ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और इससे 
उपाबक अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट पातों के अधीन रहते हए , केन्द्रीय 
सरकार उक्त स्थापन को उक्त स्कीम के सभी उपबन्धों के प्रवर्तन 
से एतद्वारा छूट देती है और उक्त धारा 17 की उपधारा ( 3 ) 
के अनुसरण में केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा निदेश देती है कि : - - 


8. यदि उस वर्ग के स्थापनों के लिए, जिसमें नियोजक का 
स्थापन प्राता है , भविष्य निधि के अभिदायों की दर कर्मचारी 
भविष्य निधि और कुटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 के अधीन 
बढ़ा दी जाए तो नियोजक भविष्य निधि के अभिदायों की वर 
समुचित रूप से बढ़ा देगा ताकि स्थापन की भविष्य निधि स्कीम 
के अधीन की प्रसुविधाएं उन प्रसुविधाओं से कम अनुकूल न हो 
जाएं जिनकी व्यवस्था कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन 
निधि अधिनियम , 1952 के अधीन है । 

7 . स्थापन अपनी भविष्य निधि का संपरीक्षित तुलन -पत्र 
हर वर्ष प्रादेशिक भविष्य निधि आयुक्त को वर्षान्त के तीन मास 
के भीतर भेजेगा । 


( क ) उक्त स्थापन से सम्बय नियोजक उक्त स्थापन 

के उन कर्मचारियों को , जो , यदि यह छट न दी 
गई होती तो , उक्त स्कीम के अधीन सदस्य हो 
गए होते, तत्समय देय वेतन के ( माधारिक मजदूरी , 
महंगाई भत्ता, प्रतिधारण भत्ता , यदि कोई हो , 
पौर उस पर अनुशेय खान रियायत का नकद 
मूल्य ) 0 . 09 ( पन्य दसमलव शुन्य नौ ) प्रतिशत 


8. भविष्य निधि नियमों में कोई भी संशोधन केन्द्रीय भविष्य 
निधि पायुक्त के पूर्व अनुमोदन के बिना नहीं किया जाएगा । जहां 
किसी संशोधन से कर्मचारियों के हितों पर प्रतिकूल प्रभाव पड़ना 
संभाध्य हो वहां केन्द्रीय भविष्य निधि आयुक्त , अपना अनुमोदन 
देने से पूर्व, कर्मचारियों को अपना दृष्टिकोण स्पष्ट करने का युक्ति 
युक्त अवसर देगा । 

[ सं० एस -35014 ( 21 )/ 72-पी०एफ० 2] 


4404 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II 


S . O . 3068. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the first provişo to section 6 of the Employees Provi 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 
1952 ) , the Contral Government, after making necessary 
enquiry into the matter , hereby specifies with effect 
from the 1st December , 1971 , the establishment known 
as Messrs Shere Punjab Co -operative Transport Socie 
ty Limited 233, Kam. a Market , New Delhi including 
its branches at (1 ) Delivery Godown , Ramnagar, Delhi 
( ii) Townshop No. 2 Faridabad ( ili ) Ballabgarh , Har 
yana for the purposes of the said proviso . 

[ No . S. 35019 (90) / 72-PF . II (ii). ] 
का० प्रा० 3068. - कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कटम्ब पेंशन 
निधि अधिनियम, 1952 ( 195 2 का 19 ) की धारा 6 के प्रथम 
परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार 
इस विषय में आवश्यक जांच कर लेने के पश्चात् एतद्वारा मैसर्स 
शेरे पंजाब कोप्रापेरेटिव ट्रान्सपोर्ट सोसाइटी लिमिटेड, 233, 
कमला मार्केट , नई दिल्ली, जिसमें इसकी (i ) डिलीबरी गोडाउन , 
रामनगर, दिल्ली, (ii) टाउनशीप सं० 2, फरीदाबाद और 
( ii ) बल्लभगढ़ हरयाणा में की शाखाएं भी सम्मिलित हैं 
नामक स्थापन को 1 दिसम्बर, 1971 से उक्त परन्तुक के प्रयोजनों 
के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 

[ सं० एस० 350 19 ( 90)/ 72-पी० एफ० 2( ii ) ] 


$ . o . 3070 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - section ( 1 ) of section 13 of the Employees Provi 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 
1952 ) , and in supersession of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Em 
ployment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment) No. S . O . 4409 dated the 22nd Octo 
ber , 1969, the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shri S . D . Thapad to be an Inspector for the whole of 
the State of Mysore , for the purposes of the said Act 
and of any Scheme framed thereunder , in relation to 
any establishment belonging to , or under the control 
of the Central Government, or in relation to any 
establishment connected with a railway company , a 
major port, a mine or an oilfield or a controlled in 
dustry or in relation to an establishment having de 
partments or branches in more than one Ştate . 

[ No . A12016 ( 8 ) / 72- PF .I.] 


का० प्रा० 3070. - कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि अधिनियम 
1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) की धारा 13 की उपधारा ( 1 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के 
भूतपूर्व श्रम , रोजगार और पुनर्वास मन्त्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार 
विभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं० का० प्रा० 4409 तारीख 
22 अक्तूबर 1969 को अधिकान्त करते हुए , केन्द्रीय 
सरकार एतद्द्वारा श्री एस० डी० थापड को उक्त अधिनियम 
और उसके अधीन विरचित किसी स्कीम के प्रयोजनों के लिए 
केन्द्रीय सरकार या उसके नियंत्रणाधीन किसी स्थापन के संबंध 
में या किसी रेल कम्पनी , महापत्तन , खान या तेल क्षेत्र या 
नियंत्रित उद्योग से सम्बन्धित किसी स्थापन के सम्बन्ध में , जिस 
के एक से अधिक राज्य में विभाग या शाखाएं हों , सम्पूर्ण मैसूर 
राज्य के लिए निरीक्षक नियुक्त करती है । 

[ सं० ए0- 12016 ( 6) / 72-पी० एफ० 1 ] 


New Delhi, the 29th August 1972 
S . O . 3069. .. In exercise of the powers confered by 
sub -section ( 1 ) of section 13 of the Employees Provi 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 
1952 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri 
H . T . Trivedi to be an Inspector for the whole of the 
State of Gujarat for the purposes of the said Act and 
of any Scheme framed thereunder in relation to any 
establishment belonging to , or under the control of 
the Central Government, or in relation to any estab 
lishment connected with a railway company , a major 
port , a mine or an oilfield or a controlled industry , or 
in relation to an establishment having departments 
or branches in more than one State . 

[ No. A. 12015 (1) / 70 - PF.I.] 
नई दिली , 19 अगस्त , 1972 
का० प्रा० 306 9.- कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन 
निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) की धारा 13 की 
उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय 
सरकार एतदद्वारा श्री एच० टी० त्रिवेदी को उक्त अधिनियम 

और उसके अधीन विरधित किसी स्कीम के प्रयोजनों के लिए 
केन्द्रीय सरकार के या उसके नियंत्रणाधीन किसी स्थापन के संबंध 
में या किसी रेल कम्पनी , महापत्तन , खान या तेल क्षेत्र या नियंत्रित 
उद्योग से संबन्धित किसी स्थापन के संबंध में या किसी ऐसे 
स्थापन के संबंध में जिसके अधिक राज्यों में विभाग या शाखाएं 
हैं, सम्पूर्ण गुजरात राज्य के लिए निरीक्षक नियुक्त करती है । 

[ सं० एस - 12015 ( 1 ) / 70 पी० एस० 1 ] 


S . 0 . 3071. -- In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - section ( 1 ) of section 13 of the Employees Provi 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 
1952) , and in supersession of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Em 
ployment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment ) No. S. O . 1313 dated the 8th April, 
1967, the Central Government hereby appoints Shri 
M . M . Chtale to be an Inspector for the whole of the 
State of Maharashtra for the purposes of the said Act 
and of any Scheme framed thereunder , in relation to 
any establishment belonging to , or under the control 
of , the Central Government, or in relation to any es 
tablishment connected with a railway company, a 
major port, a mine or an oilfield or a controlled indus 
try or in relation to an establishment having depart 
ments or branches in more than one State . 

[ No. A - 12016 ( 7) / 72 - PF.I.] 


का० प्रा० 3071. कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि अधिनियम , 
1952 ( 1952 का 19) की धारा 13 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व 
श्रम , रोजगार और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय , ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 
की अधिसूचना सं० का० प्रा० 1313 तारीख 6 अप्रैल , 1967 
को अधिक्रान्त करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा श्री एम० एम० 
चितले को उक्त अधिनियम और उसके अधीन विरचित किसी 
स्कीम के प्रयोजनों के लिए केन्द्रीय सरकार के या उसके नियंत्रणाधीन 


S5c. : ( i ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4405 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


किसी स्थापन के संबंध में या किसी रेल कम्पनी, महापत्तन , खान 
या तेल क्षेत्र या नियंत्रित उद्योग से संबंधित किसी स्थापन के 
संबंध में या ऐसे स्थान के सम्बन्ध में जिसकी एक से अधिक राज्य 
में विभाग या शाखायें हो सम्पूर्ण महाराष्ट्र राज्य के लिए निरीक्षक 
नियुक्त करती है । 

[ सं० ए-12016( 7) / 72-पी०एफ० 1 ] 


का०या० 3073. - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैसर्स दि कोल ट्रेडिंग कम्पनी लि० , पी - 38 इंडिया एक्सचेंज 
प्लेस , कलकत्ता - 1 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्म 
चारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी 
भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 
का 19 ) के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 

अत :, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 को उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 

यह अधिसूचना 1971 के अगस्त के एक तोसवें दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[सं० एम- 35017 ( 43)/ 72-पीएफ 2] 


New Delhi, the 1st September 1972 
S . O . 3072 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Asoka Press of Messrs Asoka Charities, 11 / 238 
Dr. Naniappa Road , Coimbatore - 18 have agreed that 
the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should 
be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment . 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April , 1972. 

[ No. S. 35019 ( 102) / 72 - PF .II . ] 


S. O . 3074. - Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of 
the employees in relation to the establishment known 
as Messrs Namoka Private Limited , 73A Ganesh 
Chand Avenue, Calcutta - 13 have agreed that the pro 
visions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ), should be made 
applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub -section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirtieth day of June 1971 . 

[ No. S.35017/ 44 /72-PF.II.] 


कोयम्बद 
संख्याइशन 
निधि 


नई दिल्ली , 1 सितम्बर 1972 
का० प्रा० 3072. --- यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स अशोक चैरिटीज के मेसर्स अशोक प्रेस 11/ 238 
डाक्टर ननजप्पा रोड , कोयम्बटूर - 18 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध 
नियोजक और कर्मचारियों को बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत 
हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधि 
नियम, 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू 
किए जाने चाहिए । 

अत :, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हर केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती है ; 

यह अधिसूचना 1972 को अप्रैल के प्रथम दिन की प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ सं० एस - 35019 ( 102) / 72-पी०एफ० 2] 


का० प्रा०3074 . - यतः केन्द्रीय सेरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैसर्स नमोका प्राइवेट लिमिटेड , 73 गणेश चन्द , एवेन्य , 
कलकत्ता- 13 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों 
की बहुसंख्या इस पर सहमत बात हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य 
विधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 
19 ) के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 

अत :, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 को उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सेरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्दारा लागू करती है । 

यह आधसूचना 1971 के जून के तीसवें दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई 
समझो जाएगी । 

[सं० एस० 35017( 44 )/ 72-पो०एफ० 2] 


S . O . 3073 . - Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of 
the employees in relation to the establishment known 
as Messrs The Coal Trading Company Limited , P - 38 , 
India Exchange Place, Calcutta - 1 have agreed that 
the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 (19 of 1952) , should 
be made applicable to the said establishment; 


150 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty - first day of August, 1971 . 

[ No. S.35017 ( 43 ) / 72- FF.II.] 


S . O . 3075 . - Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that the employer and the majority of 
the employees in relation to the establishment known 
as Messrs Gayways Publitity Private Limited , 
45 - Panchkuin Road , New Delhi have agreed that the 
provisions of the Employees Provident Funds - and 
Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should 
be made applicable to the said establishment; 


4406 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
torce on the first day of August, 1969 . 

[ No. S .- 35019/ 103 / 72- PF. II .] 


S . O . 3077 . - -Whereas it appears to the Central Govern 
ment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known 
as Messrs Auto Sobressa Lentes, P . O . Box No . 16 , 
Panjim , Goa have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

. Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub -section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of October , 1971. 

[ No. S.35018 / 56 / 72- PT.II .] 


का० प्रा० 3075. - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है 
कि मैसर्स मेवेज पब्लिसिटि प्राईवेट लिमिटेड , 45, पंचकुई रोड , नई 
दिल्ली नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की 
बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 
और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 
के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 


अत :, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती है । 


- फा० प्रा० 3077.- यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैसर्स माटो सोतसा लेण्डीज पोस्ट आफिस वापस न० 16 ए 
पंजिम, पोमा नापक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोज ों और कर्म 
चारियों को बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी 
भविष्य निधि और कुटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 
1952 का 19 के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 


यह अधिसूचना 1969 के अगस्त के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 


[ सं० एस- 350 19 ( 103 )/ 72-पी० एफ० 2 ] 


अतः , अब , जक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लागू कर ी है । 
__ यह अधिसूचना 1971 के अक्टूबर के इकतीसवें दिन को 
प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 


8 . 0 . 3076 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Govern 
Government that the employer and the majority of 
the employees in relation to the establishment known 
as Messrs Hotal Solmar, Panjim, Goa, have agreed 
that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds 
and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , 
should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub -section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of December, 1971 . 

[ No. S - 35018 ( 58) / 72 - PF .II . ] . 


[ सं० एस० 35018 ( 56 )/ 72 -पी० एफ० 2 ] 


का० प्रा० 3076.- यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स होटल सोलमार, पंजिम , गोला नामक स्थापन 
से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और कर्मचारियों की बहसंख्या इस बात पर 
सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटम्ब पेंशन 
निधि अधिनियम 1952 ( 1952 का 19) के उपबंध उक्त 
स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 


S . 0 . 3078 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
the Suryapet Co -operative Land Mortagage Bank 
Limited . Suryapet , have agreed that the provisions of 
the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act , 1952 (19 of 1952) , should be made applicable 
to the said establishment ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of January, 1971. 


[ No . S. 35019 (101 ) / 72- PF.II .] 


अत :, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती 


मह अधिसूचना 1971 के दिसम्बर के इकतीसवें दिन को 
प्रवृत्त हुई, समझी जाएगी । 


का० प्रा० 3078.- पतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि सूर्यपेट कोआपरेटिव लैंड मारगेज बैक लिमिटड सूर्यपेट 
नामक स्थापन से सम्बर नियोजक और कर्मचारीयों को बहुसंख्या 
इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और 
कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 195 2 ( 195 2 का 19) के उपबंध 
उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 


[ सं० एस० 35018( 58) / 72-पी०एफ०2] 


Suc. 3(ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4407 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करत हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लागू करती है । 

यह अधिसूचना 1971 की जनवरी के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 


का०मा० 3080 . - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैसर्स प्रोडलाबारी कम्पनी लिमिटेड, राजेन्द्रनाथ मुकर्जी रोड , 
कलकत्ता नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों 
की बहुसख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 
19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने 
चाहिए ; 

अतः , अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लागू करती 


[ सं० एस० 35019( 101 )/ 72 -पी०एफ० 2 ] 


S . O . 3079 , - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Process Syndicate, 21 , Darya Ganj, Delhi- 6 , 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees 
Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 
( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said 
establishment ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section (4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April, 1970 . 


___ यह अधिसूचना 1971 के अप्रैल के तीसवें दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 


[ सं० एस० 35017( 45 )/ 72 -पी०एफ० 2 (i) ] 


INo . S. 35019 ( 109 ) / 72 - PF. II. ] 


S . O . 3081. - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the first proviso to section 6 of the Employees Provi 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 (19 of 
1952) , the Central Government, after making necessary 
enquiry into the matter . nereby specifies with effect 
from the 30th April, 1971 the establishment known as 
The Oodlabarį Company Limited , 11, Rajendra Nath 
Mukherjee Road , Calcutta -1 for the purposes of the 
said proviso . 

[ No . S . 35017 / 45 / 72- PF .(ii ).] 


का०मा० 307. - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैसर्स ब्रोसेस सिंडिकेट , 21 दरियागंज , दिल्ली - 6 नामक 
स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस 
बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और 
कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधिः अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19) 
के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन. को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 

अतःअब , उक्त अधिनियम कीधारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम 
के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लागू करती है । 

यह अधिसूचना 1970 के अप्रैल के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 


का०या० 3081 - कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 
और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 
की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार इस विषय में आवश्यक जांच कर लेने 
के पश्चात् एतद्वारा प्रोडलाबारी कम्पनी लिमिटेड, 11 , 
राजेन्द्र नाथ मुकर्जी रोड , कलकत्ता - 1 नामक स्थापन को 20 अप्रैल 
1971 से उक्त परन्तुक के प्रयोजनों के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती 


[सं० एस० 35017( 45 )/ 72- पी० एफ० 2 ( ii )] 


[ सं० एस० 350 19( 109)/ 72 -पी० एफ० 2 ] 


S . 0 . 3082. - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Goa Mineral Ore Exports Association , Vaglo 

Building , Rua Conde De Torres Novas Post Box No . 113 , 
Goa , have agreed that the provisions of the Employees 
Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 
(19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said 
establishment; 


S . O . 3080 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov . 
ernment that the employer- and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Oodlabari Company Limited , 11 , Rajendra Nath 
Mukherjee Road , Calcutta - 1 have agreed that the pro 
visions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act , 1952 (19 of 1952 ) , should be made 
applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub- section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
foree on the thirtieth day of April, 1971. 

[ No . S- 35017 / 45 / 72- PF. II (i) .] 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powerg conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of December , 1971. 

[ No. S. 35018 (60) / 72-PF.II.] 


4408 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II - 


- 


- 


का० प्रा० 3082 यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स गोवा मिनरल और एक्सपोर्टस एसोसिएशन , 
वागलो विल्डिंग, स्नाकोंडेडि टोरेस नोवात , पोस्ट वाक्स नं0 113 
गोबा नामक स्थापन से सम्बन्ध नियोजकों और कर्मचारियों , 
की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 195 2 का 
19 ) के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 

अत : अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा 
( 4) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार 
उक्त अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन कॉ एतद् द्वारा लागू 
करती है । 

यह अधिसूचना 1971 के दिसम्बर एकतीसवें दिन 
को प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ सं० एस० - 35018 ( 60 )/ 72-पी० एफ II 


S . O . 3084. - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Shri Ambica Silk Mills , Ashwinikunar Road , 
Surat- 3 have agreed that the provisions of the Em 
ployees Provident Funds and Femily Pension Fund 
Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , should be made applicable to 
the said establishment ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April, 1971. 

[ No. S. 35019 / 94 / 72 - PP .II.] 
का० प्रा० 3084. - --यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स श्री अम्बिका सिल्क मिल्स , अश्विनी कुमार रोड , 
सूरत 113 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और कर्मचारियों 
की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटुम्बपेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952( 1952 का 19 ) 
के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 

यह अधिसूचना 1971 के अप्रैल के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[सं० एस० 35019 ( 94 )/ 72 -पी० एफ० 2 ] 


S . O . 3083. - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Badri Prasad Ashok Kumar , 2 , Gurusaday Road , 
Calcutta - 19 have agreed that the provisions of the Em 
ployees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act , 1952 (19 of 1952) , should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section (4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment . 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of December , 1969. 

[ No. S. 35017 / 47 / 72 - PF .II . ] 


का० प्रा० 3083. - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स बद्री प्रसाद अशोक कुमार, 2, गुरुसदय रोड , 
कलकत्ता - 19 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों 
की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम, 1952 ( 195 2 का 19 ) 
के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 


S . O . 3085 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs United Investment Corporation , 2 , Gurusaday 
Road , Calcutta - 19 have agreed that the provisions of 
the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable 
to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub- section ( 4 ) of section l of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of December, 1969 . 

___ [ No. S. 35017 (46) / 72-PF.II . ] 
का० प्रा० 3085. - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स यूनाइटेड इनवेस्टमेंट कारपोरेशन 2, गुरुसदय 
रोड, कलकत्ता 19 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों 
की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 
के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 

अत:, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधि 
नियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 

यह अधिसूचना 1969 के दिसम्बर के एकतीसवें दिन को 
प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 


प्रतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लागू करती है । 


यह अधिसूचना 1969 के दिसम्बर के एकतीसवें दिन को 
प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 


[ सं० एस० - 35017 ( 47 )/ 72 -पी० एफ० 2] 


[सं० एस० 35017( 46)/72-पी० एफ० 2 ] 


SEC . 3 (i ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29 . 1894 


4469 


S . O . 3086 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 

Messrs Saco Rubbers Private Limited , G , T . Road, 
Kundli, District Rohtak have agreed that the provisions 
or the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable 
to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of February , 1972 . 

[ No . S . 35019/ 25 / 72- PF .II (1 ). ] 


S . O . 3088. - - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs H . Bloch Engineering Private Limited , Veer 
Nariman Road , Bombay - 20 have agreed that the pro 
visions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1962 ) , should be made 
applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conterred 
by sub - section (4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of October , 1971. 


[ No. S. 35018 (61 ) / 72 -PF .II (1). ] 


का० प्रा० 3086 . -~-यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैसर्स सैको रबर्स प्राईवेट लिमिटेड , जी० टी० रोड, कुण्डली , 
जिला रोहतक नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और कर्मचारियों 
की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर हमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम, 1952 ( 195 2 का 19 ) 
के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 

यह अधिसूचना 1972 के फरवरी , के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुइ समझी जाएगी । 


का० प्रा० 3088 . ~ यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स एच ब्लाच इंजीनियरिंग प्राइवेट लिमिटेड , 
वीर नारीमन रोड, बम्बई- 20 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक 
और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है 
कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 
1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने 
चाहिए । 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लाग करती है । 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 के अक्तूबर , के इक्तीसवें दिन को 
प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 


[ सं० एस - 35018( 61 )/ 72-पी० एफ० 2 (i)] 


[ सं० एस० 350 19 ( 25 )/ 72 -पी० एफ० 2(i) ] 


S .O . 3087, -- In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the first proviso to section 6 of the Employees Provi 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 
1952) , the Central Government. after making necessary 
enquiry into the matter . hereby specifies with effect 
from the 31st October , 1971, the establishment known 
as Messrg H . Bloch Engineering Private Limited, Veer 
Nariman Road , Bombay - 20 for the purposes of the said 
proviso . 

[ No. S. 36018 ( 61 ) / 72- PF , II ( 11) . ] 


S . O . 3089. - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Joseph Roadways Pattiveerahpati, Madurai 
District , Tamil Nadu , have agreed that the provisions 
of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable 
to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the sald Act to the said establishment. 

This notiAcation shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April, 1972 . 


therecente(4) o hereby appliesen 


[ No. S. 35019 / 107 / 72- PF .II.J 


का० प्रा० 3087. - केन्द्रीय सरकार, कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटुम्बपेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 195 2 का 19 ) 
की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हुए , संबद्ध विषय में आवश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात् 31 अक्टूबर, 
1971 मैसर्स से एच ब्लाक इंजीनियरिंग प्राइवेट लिमिटेड , वीर 
नारीमन प्रोड, बम्बई - 20 नामक स्थापन को एतद्वारा उक्त 
परन्तुक केप्रयोजनों के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 


का० प्रा० 3089 . - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स जोसेफ रोडवेज पट्टी वीरानपटी, मदराई जिला , 
तामिलनाडु , नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्म वारियों 
की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 
का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 


[ सं० एस० 35018 ( 61 )/ 72 -पी०एफ० 2 (ii ) ] 


4416 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II --- 


- 


- 


- 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 को उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को सातद्वारा लागू करती 


यह अधिसूचना 1972 के अप्रैल के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ सं० एम० -- 35019 ( 107)/ 72 -पी०एफ०2] 


S . 0 . 3092. - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 13 of the Employees Provi 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 
1952 ) , and in supersession of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and 
Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour and Employ 

ment ) No. S . O . 48 dated the 1st December 1971 , the 
Central Government hereby appoints Shri A S . Satta 
nathan to be an Inspector for the whole of the State 
of Madhya Pradesh for the purposes of the said Act 
and of any Scheme framed thereunder , in relation to 
any establishment belonging to , or under the control 
of, the Central Government, or in relation to any 
establishment connected with a railway company , a 
major port, a mine or an oilfield or a controlled indus 
try or in relation to an establishment having depart 
ments or branches in more than one State. 

[ No . 17 / 2 / 67 - PF .I (11).] 


8 , 0 , 3090 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the first proviso to section of the Employees Provi 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 
1952 ) , the Central Government , after making necessary 
enquiry into the matter, hereby specifles with effect 
from the 1st February , 1972 the establishment known 
as Messrs Saco Rubbers Private Limited . G . T . Road , 
Kundli, District Rohtak for the purposes of the said 
proviso. 

[ No. S. 35019/ 25 / 72 - PF .II ( 11 ). ] 


का० प्रा० 3090. - केन्द्रीय सरकार कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 
का 19 ) की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का 
प्रयोग करते हुए, सम्बद्ध विषय में आवश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात् 
1 फरवरी, 1972 से मैसर्स सैको रबर्स प्राइवेट लिमिटेड , जी० 
टी० रोड, कुण्डली , जिला रोहतक नामस्थापन को एतद्वारा 
उक्त परन्तुक के प्रयोजनों के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 

[ सं० एस० 35019 ( 25)/ 72-पी० एफ० 2( ii ) ] 


का० प्रा० 3092 . - कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब 
पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) की धारा 13 
की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए और 
भारत सरकार के श्रम और पुनर्वास मन्त्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार 
विभाग ) की अधिसूचना संख्या का प्रा० 48 तारीख 1 दिसम्बर, 
1971 को अधिक्रांत करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा श्री ए . 
एस० सत्तनाथन को उक्त अधिनियम और उसके आधीन विरचित 
किसी स्कीम के प्रयोजनों के लिए केन्द्रीय सरकार के या उसके 
नियंत्रणाधीन किसी स्थान के सम्बन्ध में या किसी रेल कम्पनी , 
महापत्तन, खान या तेल क्षेत्र या नियंत्रित उद्योग से सम्बन्धित 
किसी स्थापन के सम्बन्ध में या किसी ऐसे स्थापन के सम्बन्ध में 
जिसके विभाग या शाखाएं एक से अधिक राज्यों में हों , सम्पूर्ण 
मध्य प्रदेश राज्य के लिए निरीक्षक नियुक्त करती है । 


[ सं० 17( 2 )/ 67-पी०एफ० 1 (ii )] 


New Delhi , the 5th September 1972 
S. 0 . 3091 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - section ( 2 ) of section 5D of the Employees Provi 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 
1952) , and in supersession of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and 
Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employ 
ment ) No . S . O . 36 dated the 27th November, 1971, the 
Central Government hereby appoints Shri A. S . Satta 
natthan as Regional Provident Fund Commissioner for 
the whole of the State of Madhya Pradesh to assist 
the Central Provident Fund Commissioner in the dis 
charge of his duties, vice Shri T . Sadasivaya , 

[ No. 17 / 2 / 67- PF.I(1), ] 


नई दिल्ली , 5 सितम्बर , 1972 


S . O . 3093. ---In exercise of the powers conterred by 
sub -scction ( 1 ) of Section 13 of the Employees Pro 
vident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 10 
of 1952 ) , and in supersession of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Em 
ployment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment) No. S . O . 3349 dated 13th September 
1968, the Central Government hereby appoints Shri 
N . T . Kuruvilla to be an Inspector for the whole of 
the State of Tamil Nadu and the Union Territory of 
Pondicherry for the purposes of the said Act and of 
any Scheme framed thereunder , in relation to any 
establishment belonging to , or under the control of, 
the Central Government, or in relation to any estab 
lishment connected with a railway company , a major 
port , a mine or an oilfield or a controlled industry or 
in relation to an establishment having departments or 
branches in more than one State . 

[ No . A -12018/ 6/ 72- PF .I. ] 


. का० प्रा० 309 1 . - कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब 
पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) की धारा 5 घ 
की उपधारा ( 2 ) द्वारा प्रवस्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और 
भारत सरकार के श्रम और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार 
विभाग ) की अधिसूचना संख्या का० प्रा० 36 तारीख 27 नवम्बर , 
1971 को अधिकान्त करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार श्री टी०सदासिवैया 
के स्थान पर श्री ए० एस० सत्तनाथन को केन्द्रीय भविष्य निधि 

आयुक्त को उस के कर्तव्यों का निर्वहन करने में सहायता देने के लिए , 
समस्त मध्य प्रदेश राज्य के लिए एतद्वारा प्रादेशिक भविष्य निधि 
प्रायक्त नियुक्त करती है । 

[संख्या 17( 2 )/ 67 -पी० एफ० 1( i)] 


का० प्रा० 3093. - कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और 
कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 195 2 का 19) की 

की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रम , रोजगार और पुनर्वास 
मन्त्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं० 
का० प्रा० 3349 , तारीख 13 सितम्बर , 1968 को अधित 


SEC . 3( i) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4411 


करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा श्री एन० टी० कुरूबिला 
को उक्त अधिनियम और उसके आधीन विरचित किसी स्कीम 
के प्रयोजनों के लिए केन्द्रीय सरकार के या उसके नियंत्रणाधीन 
किसी स्थापन के सम्बन्ध में या किसी रेल कम्पनी , महापत्तन 
खान या तेल क्षेत्र या नियंत्रित उद्योग से सम्बन्धित किसी स्थापन 
के सम्बन्ध में या ऐसे स्थापन के सम्बन्ध में , जिसके एक से अधिक 
राज्य में विभाग या शाखाएं हों , सम्पूर्ण तमिलनाडू राज्य और 
पांडिचेरी संघ राज्यक्षेत्र के लिए निरीक्षक नियुक्त करती है । 


का० प्रा० 3095 - कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और 
कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) की 
धारा 13 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रम , रोजगार और पुनर्वास मन्त्रालय 
( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसुचना सं० का० प्रा० 
3577 तारीख 27 सितम्बर, 1968 को अधिक्रांत करते हुए , 
केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा श्री पी० हरिदासचर को उक्त प्रधि 
नियम और उसके प्राधीन विरचित किसी स्कीम के प्रयोजनों 
के लिए केन्द्रीय सरकार के या उसके नियंत्रणाधीन किसी 
स्थापन के सम्बन्ध में या किसी रेल कम्पनी, महापत्तन , खान 
या तेल क्षेत्र या नियंत्रित उद्योग से सम्बन्धित किसी स्थापन के 
सम्बन्ध में या ऐसे स्थापन के सम्बन्ध में जिसके एक से अधिक 
राज्य में विभाग या शाखाएं हों , सम्पूर्ण केरल राज्य और पांडिचेरी 
संघ राज्य क्षेत्र के मेहे क्षेत्र के लिए निरीक्षक नियुक्त करती है । 


[ सं० ए० 12016 ( 5 )/ 72-पी०एफ०I ] 


$ . 0 . 3094 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - section ( 1 ) of section 13 of the Employees Provi 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 
1952 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri 
B . L . Chopra to be an Inspector for the whole of the 
States of Punjab , Haryana and Himachal Pradesh and 
Union Territory of Chandigarh for the purposes of the 
said Act and of any Scheme framed thereunder in re 
lation to any establishment belonging to or under the 
control of the Central Government or in relation to 
any establishment connected with a railway company , 
a major port , a mine or an oilfield or a controlled in 
dustry or in relation to an cstablishment having de 
partments or branches in more than one state . 

[ No. A -12015/ 2 / 70 - PF .I. ] 


[ सं० ए-12016( 4)/ 72- पी० एफ० -I] 


का० प्रा० 3034 - कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और 
कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 

की धारा 13 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा श्री बी० एल० चोपड़ा , 
को उक्त अधिनियम और उसके आधीन विरचित किसी स्कीम 
के प्रयोजनों के लिए केन्द्रीय सरकार के या उसके नियंत्रणाधीन 


S . O . 3096. --- In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - section ( 1 ) of section 13 of the Employees Provi 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 
1952 ) , and in supersession of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Department of Social 

Welfare No. S . O . 393 dated 31st January, 1966, the 
Central Government hereby appoints Shri A . S . 
Lakshmanan to be an Inspector for the whole of the 
State of Andhra Pradesh for the purposes of the said 
Act and of any Scheme framed thereunder , in relation 
to any establishment belonging to , or under the control 
of, the Central Government, or in relation to any es 
tablishment connected with a railway company, a 
major port, a mine or an oilfield or a controlled indus 
try or in relation to an establishment having depart 
ments or branches in more than one State . 


[ No . A- 12013 / 1 / 72 - PF.I.] 


खान या तेल या नियंत्रित उद्योग से सम्बन्धित किसी स्थापन के 
सम्बन्ध में या किसी ऐसे स्थापन के सम्बन्ध में जिसके एक 
से अधिक राज्यों में विभाग या शाखाएं हैं , सम्पूर्ण पंजाब , हरियाणा, 
हिमाचल प्रदेश, राज्यों तथा चन्डीगढ़ के केन्द्रीय शासित क्षेत्र के 
लिए निरीक्षक नियुक्त करती है । 

( सं० ए-120 15 ( 2)/ 70-पी० एफ०I ) , 


का ० प्रा० 3096 -- -- कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और 
कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 
की धारा 13 की उपधारा ( 1) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए, भारत सरकार के सामाजिक कल्याण विभाग की 
अधिसूचना सं ० का ० प्रा० 393 तारीख 31 जनवरी, 1966 

को अधिक्रांत करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा श्री ए० 
एस ० लक्षमनन को उक्त अधिनियम और उसके अधीन विरचित 
किसी स्कीम के प्रयोजनों के लिए केन्द्रीय सरकार के या उसके 
नियंत्राणाधीन किसी स्थापन के सम्बन्ध में या किसी रेल 
कम्पनी , महापत्तन , खान या तेल क्षेत्र या नियंत्रित उद्योग से 


S . O . 3096 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub- section ( 1 ) of section 13 of the Employees Provi 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 
1952), and in supersession of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Em 
ployment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment ) No. S . O . 3577 dated 27th Septem 
ber, 1968, the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shri P . Haridasachar to be an Inspector for the whole 
of the State of Kerala and the Mehe Area of the Union 
territory of Pondicherry for the purposes of the said 
Act and of any Scheme framed thereunder in relation 
to any establishment belonging to , or under the control 
of, the Central Government, or in relation to any es 
tablishment connected with a railway company, a 
major port, a mine or an oilfield or a controlled In 
dustry or in relation to an establishment having de 
partments or branches in more than one State . 

[ No . A- 12016/ 4 / 72 - PF .I. ] 


सम्बन्ध में जिसके एक से अधिक राज्य में विभाग और शात्राएं 
हों , सम्पूर्ण आन्ध्र प्रदेश राज्य के लिए निरीक्षक नियुक्त करती 


[सं० ए-12013(1 )/ 72 -पी०एफ.०-I] 


10 . 3099.- In 


the Emplostiral 
Govern 
specifled 


SL. 
No. 


- . .. - - 


4 


4412 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 

[ PART JI - - 

- -- - - - - - - 
S . O . 3097 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 

___ New Delhi, the 8th September 1972 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 

S . 0 . 3099. - In exercise of the powers conferred 
Messrs CHOWGULE REAL ESTATE and CONSTRUC by section 72 - F of the Employees State Insurance Act. 
TION COMPANY , PRIVATE LIMITED, Chowgule 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ), the Central Government, having 
House , Marmugao, Ilarbour, Goa , have agreed that the 

regard to the location of the factories specified in 
Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should column ( 4 ) of the Schedule hereto annexed in areas 
be made applicable to the said establishment; 

specified in column ( 3) of the said Schedule belonging 
Now , Therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 

to Beas Sutluj Link Project, Sunder Nagar, in the 
by sub -section ( 4 ) of Section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 

State of Himachal Pradesh in which the provisions 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

of Chapters IV and V of the said Act are not in force, 
This notification shall be deemed to have come into hereby exempts the said factories from the payment 
force on the first day of July , 1970 . 

of employers special contribution leviable under 
[ No. S. 35017 / 21 / 72 -PF.(II) ( i) .] Chapter VA of the said Act for a period of one year 

from the date of publication of this notification in the 
नई दिल्ली 6 सितम्बर 1972 

Official Gazette or until the enforcement of provisions 

of Chapter V of the said Act in those areas , which 
का० प्रा० 30 97 . यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 

ever is earlier . 
होता है कि मैसर्स चौगुले रीयल एस्टेट एण्ड कन्सट्रकशन कम्पनो 

SCHEDULE 
प्राइवेट लिमिटेड , चौगुले हाउस , मारमुगाप्रो हारबर , गोमा 

Nama Name Name of the 
नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और कर्मचारियों की 

Ofthe Of the Factory 
बहसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कर्मचारी भविष्य 

District Arcax 
निधि और कुटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 

3 
का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 

Factorios belonging to the 
अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा 

Beas, Sutlej Link Project : 

1. 
( 4) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार 

Mandi Sunder Auto Ship , Sunder Nagar 

( Himachal Pradesh) Nagar 
उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू 

- do - do - Carrer Shop , Sunder Nagar 
करती है । 

- do -do - Machine Shop , Sunder Nagar 
यह अधिसूचना 1970 के जुलाई , के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 

- do 

Lubrication Shop Sunder Nagar 

Welding Shop , Sunder Nagar 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 

- do - do Tractor Shop , Suņder Nagar 
[ सं० एस - 35017 ( 21) / 72-पी०एफ० 2( 1) ] 

- do - Rigging Shop , Sunder Nagar 
- do - do Pipe Shop , Sunder Nagar 

Slapper Structure Shop , Slappar 

- do -Do- Oxygen Gas Plant, Slappar 
S . O . 8098 . - In exerciso of the powers conferred by 

- do - Acetyleno Plant, Slapper 
the first proviso to section 6 of the Employees Provi 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 

- do - - do - Penstock Fabrcation Shop , Slappr 
1952 ) the Central Government , after making necessary 

[ File No. S. 38014 ( 25 ) /72- HI ] 
enquiry into the matter, hereby specifles with effect 
from the 1st July , 1970 the establishment known as 

नई दिल्ली , 8 सितम्बर, 1972 
Messrs CHOWGULE REAL ESTATE AND CONS 
TRUCTION COMPANY, PRIVATE LIMITED , Chowgule 
House Marmugao , Harbour , Goa for the purposes of 

का० प्रा० 3099 . . . . कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 
the said proviso . 

1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 73च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
[ No . S. 35017/ 21 / 72- PF.II ( ii ) .] 

का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार इससे उपाबद्ध अनसची 

के स्तम्भ ( 4 ) में विनिर्दिष्ट व्यास , सतलज लिंक प्रोजेक्ट , 
का० प्रा० 2098 . - . . . कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और 

सुन्दर नगर के कारखाने की , उक्त अनुसूचीके स्तम्भ ( 3 ) में 
कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 

विनिर्दिष्ट हिमाचल प्रदेश राज्य के ऐसे क्षेत्रों में , जिसमें उक्त 
की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार इस विषय में आवश्यक जांच कर लेने के 

को ध्यान में रखते हुए , उक्त कारखाने को , उक्त अधिनियम के 
पश्चात् एतदद्वारा मैसर्स चौगुले रीयल एस्टेट एण्ड कन्सट्रकशन 

अध्याय 5- क के प्राधीन उद्ग्रहणीय नियोजकों के विशेष अभिवाय 
कम्पनी , प्राइवेट लिमिटेड , चौगुले हाउस , मारमुगारो हारबर , 

के संदाय से , इस अधिसूचना के राजपत्र में प्रकाशन की तारीख 
गोपा नामक स्थापन को 1 जुलाई , 1970 से उक्त परन्तुक 

से एक वर्ष की अवधि के लिए या तब तक के लिए जब तक उक्त 
के प्रयोजनों के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 

अधिनियम के अध्याय 5 के उपबन्ध उन क्षेत्रों में प्रवत्त नहीं हो 

जाते , जो भी पहले हो , एसद्वारा छूट देती है । 
[ सं० एफ- 35017 ( 21 )/ 72 पी०एफ० 2 (ii ) ] 


लं 


- do 


- do 


- do 


-do 


-do 


SEC. 3(11) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972/ ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4413 


अनुसूची 


क्रम जिले का नाम क्षेत्र का नाम कारखाने का नाम 


सं० 


( 1) 


( 2) 


( 3 ) 


व्यास , सतलज लिंक प्रोजेक्ट 

के कारखाने 
पाटो शाप , सुन्दरनगर 


सुन्दरनगर 


S .O . 3101. — In exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 73 - F of the Employees State Insurance 
Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ), and in continuation of the 
notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Labour and Rehabilitation 
( Department of Labour and Employment 
No. S . O . 2770, dated the 5th July , 1971, the 
Central Government having regard to the location of 
the Steam Laundry attached to the King George 
Hospital, Visakhapatnam , in an area in which the pro 
visions of Chapters IV and V of the said Act are in 
force, hereby exempts the said Laundry from the 
payment of the employer s special contribution levia 
ble under Chapter VA of the said Act for a further 
Deiod of one year with effect from the 1st August , 
1972 upto and inclusive of the 31st July , 1973 . 

[ No . S- 38017 ( 41 ) / 72- HI.] 
का० प्रा० 3101 . . - - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 
1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 73- च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रम और पुनर्वास 
मन्त्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं० 
का० प्रा० 2770 तारीख 5 जुलाई, 1971 के क्रम में केन्द्रीय 
मरकार किग जार्ज अस्पताल , विशाखापत्तनम के साथ लगे हुए 
स्टीमर लाऊंड्री की ऐसे क्षेत्र में , जिसमें उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 
4 और 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवरत है , अवस्थिति को ध्यान में रखते 
हुए उक्त लाऊंडी को उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 
5 -क के प्राधीन उद्ग्रहणीय नियोजक के विशेष अभिदाय के संदाय 
से 1 अगस्त , 1972 से 31 जुलाई, 1973 तक जिसमें वह दिन 
भी सम्मिलित है, एक और वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए एतदद्वारा 
छुट देती है । 

[ मं० फा० एस० - 38017 ( 41 ) / 72 -एच०आई० ] 


1 मण्डी 

(हिमाचल 

प्रदेश ) 
यथोक्त 
3 यथोक्त 

यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 

यथोक्त 
____ यथोक्त 


2 


यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्ता 
यथोक्त 


केरेर शाप , सुन्दरनगर 
मशीन शाप , सुन्दरनगर 
लुब्रीकेशन शाप , सुन्दरनगर 
वेल्डिंग शाप , सुन्दरनगर 
ट्रैक्टर शाप , सुन्दरगनर 
रिगिंग लाप , सुन्दरनगर 
पाइप शाप , सुन्दरनगर 


___ यथोक्त 


स्लेप्पर 


स्ट्रक्चर शाप, स्लेप्पर 


10 यथोक्त 


यथोक्त 


प्राक्सीजन गैस प्लान्ट , 

स्लेप्पर 
एसिटीलीन प्लान्ट , स्ले 


11 . यथोक्त 


यथोक्त 


प्पर 


12 यथोक्त 


यथोक्त 


पेनस्टाक फैब्रिकेशन शाप , 
स्लेप्पर 


[ सं० फा० एस० 38014 ( 25 ) / 72-एच 1 ] 


S . O . 3100. -- The Central Government hereby res 
cinds the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Labour and Rehabilitation (Department 
of Labour and Employment) No. S. O . 787 dated the 4th 
January , 1972 published at page 997 of the Gazette of 
India Part II, Section 3 , sub - section (il ) dated the 4th 
March, 1972. 

[ No . F . 602( 33 ) / 70- HI. ] 


S . O . 3102 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 73F of the Employees State Insurance Act , 
1948 ( 34 of 1948) , and in continuation of the notifi 
cation of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour and Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour and 
Employment ) No. S . O . 3060 dated the 31st July , 1971 
the Central Government having regard to the loca 
tion of the factory , namely Sharavathy Hydro Elec 
tric Generating Station in Jog in an area in which the 
provisions of Chapters IV and V of the said Act are 
not in force hereby exempts the said factory from 
the payment of the employers special contribution 
leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act for a fue 
ther period of one year with effect from the 30th 
August , 1972 upto and inclusive of the 29th August , 
1973. 

__ [ No , S. 38017 ( 74 ) / 72 - HI .] 
का० प्रा० 3102 - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 
1948 का ( 1946 का 34 ) की धारा 73च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत मरकार के श्रम और पुनर्वास 
मन्त्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं० 
का० प्रा० 3080, तारीख 31 जुलाई , 1971 के क्रम में केन्द्रीय 
सरकार जोग में स्थित शरबती हाइड्रो इलेक्ट्रिक जेनेरेटिंग स्टेशन 
नामक कारखाने की ऐसे क्षेत्र में , जिसमें उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 
4 और 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवृत हैं , अवरथिति को ध्यान में रखते हए 
उक्त कारखाने को उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5 क के अधीन 
उग्र हणीय नियोजक के विशेष अभिदाय के संदाय से 30 अगस्त , 
1972 से 29 अगस्त , 1973 तक जिसमें वह दिन भी सम्मिलित 
है, एक और वर्ष की अवधि के लिए एतद्द्वारा छूट देती है । 

[सं० फा० एस० 38017 ( 74 )172 - एच आई ] 


का० प्रा० 1300 ---- केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा भारत 
सरकार के श्रम और पुनर्यास मन्त्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 
की अधिसूचना सं० का० प्रा० 787, तारीख 4 जनवरी , 1972, 
जो भारत के राजपत्न , भाग 2, खण्ड 3, उपखण्ड (II ), तारीख 
4 मार्च, 1972 के प्रष्ट 997 पर प्रकाशित हुई थी , को विखंडित 
करती है । 

[सं० फा० 602 ( 33 )/70- एच पाई ] 


4414 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


के प्रधोन उद्ग्रहनीय नियोजक के विशेष अभिदाय के संदाय से 
4 सितम्बर , 1972 से 3 सितम्बर , 1973 तक जिसमें वह दिन भी 
मम्मिलित है , एक और वर्ष की अवधि के लिए एतद्वाग छूट 
देती है । 


S . O . 3103. — In exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 73- F of the Employees State Insurance Act, 
1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , and in continuation of the notifica 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour and Rchabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment) No. S . O . 3059, dated the 31st July , 
1971 the Central Government having regard to the 
location of the Vaccine Institute . Nagpur in an area 
in which the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the 
said Act are in force , hereby exempts the said Insti 
tutę from the payment of the employer s special Con 
tribution levịable under Chapter VA of the said Act 
for a further period of one year with effect from the 
4th September, 1972 upto and inclusive of the 3rd 
September , 1973 . 

[ No. F . S - 38017 / 73 / 72- HI. ] 


[ सं . फा० 38017 ( 72 )/ 72 -एच० पाई० ] 


का० आ० 3 103: - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 
1948 ( 15148 का 34 ) की धारा 73च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हर और भारत सरकार के श्रम और पुनर्वास 
मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं० 
का० आ 0 2059, तारीख 31 जलाई, 1971 के क्रम में केन्द्रीय 
सरकार टीका संस्थान, नागपुर की ऐसे क्षेत्र में , जिसमें उक्त 
अधिनियम के अध्याय 4 और 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवृत्त हैं , अवस्थिति को 
ध्यान में रखते हुए उक्त संस्थान को उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5 - क 
के अधीन उदग्रहणीय नियोजक के विशेष अभिदाय के संदाय मे 
4 सितम्बर , 1972 से 3 मितम्बर , 1973 तक जिसमें वह दिन 
भी सम्मिलित है , एक और वर्ष की अवधि के लिए एतद्वारा 
छूट देती है । 


S . O . 3105. - In exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 73-F of the Employees State Insurance Act 
1948 (34 of 1948 ) . and in continuation of the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour and Rehabilitation Department of Labour 
and Employment ) No. S. O . 3671 dated the 7th 
August , 1971 the Central Government having regard 
to the location of the factory , namely Haryana Vete 
rinary Vaccine Institute, Hissar , in an area in which 
the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the said Act 
are in force, hereby exempts the said factory from 
the payment of the employers special contribution 
leviable under Chapter VÀ of the said Act for a 
further period of one year with effect from the 30th 
September. 1972 upto and inclusive of the 29th Sep 
tember , 1973. 


[ No. F . 38017 / 70 /72- HI. ] 


[ सं० फा० एम० 38017/ 73) 72 - एच० आई० ] 


का० प्रा० 3 105 : - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 
1948 ( 1948 का 34) की धारा 73च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करने हर प्रोर भारत परकार के श्रम और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय 
( श्रम प्रो रोजगार विभाग ) को अधिपूचना सं० का० प्रा० 
3671 , तारीख 7 अगस्त , 1971 के क्रम में , केन्द्रीय सरकार, 
हरियाणा गण-चिकित्मा टीका संस्थान , हिसार नामक कारखाने 
की ऐसे क्षेत्र में , जिसमें उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 4 और 5 के 
उपबन्ध प्रवृत हैं , अवस्थिति को ध्यान में रखते हुए उक्त कारखाने को 
उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5 - क के अधीन उग्रहनीय नियोजक 
के विशेष अभिदाय के संदाय से 30 मिम्बर , 1972 से 
29 सितम्बर , 1973 तक , जिसमें वह दिन भी मम्मिलित है, 
एक और वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए एतद्वारा छूट देती है । 


S . O . 3104. --.In exercise of the powers conferred 
by gection 73F of the Employees State Insurance 
Act, 1948 (34 of 1948 ) , and in continuation of the noti 
fication of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour and Rehabilitation (Derartment of Labour 
and Employment) No. S . O . 3920 dated the 18th Sep 
termber , 1971 the Central Government having regard 
to the location of the Electric Suh - station No. IV , 
New Delhi Municipal Committee Market Lane. New 
Delhi in an area in which the provisions of Chapters 
IV and V of the said Act are in force , hereby exempts 
the said Sub - station from the payment of the emn 
lover s special contribution leviable under Chapter 
VA of the gaid Act for a further period of one year 
with effect from the 4th September, 1972 upto and 
Inclusive of the 3rd September, 1973. 


[ सं० फा० 38017( 70)/ 72-एच० आई०] 


[ No. F . 38017 / 72 / 72- HI. ] 


का० प्रा० 3104: - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 
1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 73 च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करने हए और भारत सरकार के श्रम और पूमवमि 
मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं० 
का० प्रा० 3920, तारीख 18 सितम्बर, 1971 के क्रम में केन्द्रीय 
सरकार, नई दिल्ली नगर पालिका ममिति, मार्केट लेन , नई दिल्ली 
के विदयत उप -स्टेशन मं० 4 कोरोमी क्षेत्र में , जिसमें उक्त अधिनियम 
के अध्याय 4 और 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवृत्त हैं , अवस्थिति को ध्यान 
में रखते हए उक्त उप -स्टेशन को उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5-क 


S . 0 . 3106. " - In exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 73F of the Employees State Ingurance Act , 
1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , and in continuation of the notifica 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment) No. S . O . 3688 dated the 3rd Sep 
temher, 1971 lhe Central Government having regard 
to the location of the factory, namely , Electric Meter 
Workshop and Instrument and Relay Section . Nirman 
Bhavan , New Delhi in an area in which the provisions 
of Chapterg IV and V of the said Act are in force , 
hereby exempts the said factory from the payment 
of the employers special contribution leviable under 
Chapter VA of the said Act for a further period of 
one year with effect from the 11th September , 1972 
upto and inclusive of the 10th September , 1973 . 


INo. F . S - 38017 / 75 / 72- HI. ] 


SEC, 3(ii) : 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4415 


का० प्रा० 3106 : - कर्मचारी राज्य बोमा अधिनियम , 
1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) को धारा 73च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रम और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय 
( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं० का प्रा० 
3688, तारीख 3 सितम्बर , 1971 के क्रम में केन्द्रीय सरकार , 
कारखाने, अर्थात , इलेक्ट्रिक मोटर वर्कशाप एण्ड इन्स्ट्रूमें एण्ड 
रिले मेक्शन , निर्माण भवन , नई दिल्ली की , उस क्षेत्र में जिपमें 
उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 4 पोर 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवृत हैं , अवस्थिति 
को ध्यान में रखते हुए उक्त कारखाने को उक्त अधिनियम के 
अध्याय 5क के अधोन उद्ग्रहणोय नियोजक के विशेष अभिदाय के 
संदाय से 11 सितम्बर, 1972 से 10 सितम्बर, 1973 तक 
जिसमें 10 सितम्बर, 1973 दिन भी सम्मिलित है, एक और 
वर्ष की अवधि के लिए एलद्वारा छूट देती है । 


और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधि 
सूचना सं० का० प्रा० 2763, तारीख 27 मई, 1971 में और 
आगे निम्नलिखित संशोधन करती है , अर्थात् : - - 

उक्त अधिसूचना में "[ राज्य मरकारों द्वारा धारा 4 के खण्ड 
( घ ) के अधीन नाम निर्दिष्ट ] " शोषक के नीचे क्रमांक 14, के 
सामने को वर्तमान प्रविष्टि के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टि 
प्रतिस्थापित की जाएगो , अर्थात् : - - 

" श्री एम० एम० राजेन्द्रन , 
सचिव, तामिलनाडु सरकार, 
श्रम और रोजगार विभाग, 
मद्रास । " 
[ संख्या फा० यू . 201/ 1/ 70 -एच आई - खण्ड 2] 


[ सं० फा० एस० 38017/ 75/ 72-एच० आई० ] 


S . O . 3107. - -- Whereas the State Government of 
Tamil Nadu has , in pursuance of clause ( d ) of section 
4 of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 
1948 ) nominated Shri M . M . Rajendran , Secretary to 
the Government of Tamil Nadu , Department of 
Labour and Employment, to represent that State on 
the Employees State Insurance Corporation , in place 
of Shri V . S . Subbalah ; 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of section 4 of tho 
said Act, the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendment in the notification of 
the Government of India in the late Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation ( Department 
of Labour and Employment) No. $ . O . 2763, dated the 
27th May, 1971 , namely : 

In the said notification under the heading " [Nomi 
nated by the State Governments under clause ( d ) 
of section 4 ] ", against Serial No . 14, for the existing 
entry . the following entry shall be substituted , 
namely : 


S . O . 3108 . — Whereas the State Government of 
Himachal Pradesh has, in pursuance of clause ( d ) 
of section 4 of the Employees State Ingurance Act , 
1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , nominated Shri Salig Ram , Minis 
ter for Labour, Government of Himachal Pradesh to 
represent that State on the Employees State Insu 
rance Corporation in place of Shri Sukh Ram . 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 4 of the 
Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , 
the Central Government hereby makes the following 
amendment in the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and 
Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employ 
ment ) S . O . No . 2763 , dated the 27th May . 1971, 
namely : 

In the said notification under the heading " [Nomi 
nated by State Governments under clause ( d ) of sec 
tion ] " , for the entry against Item 11 A , the follow 
ing entry shall be substituted , namely : 
" Shri Salig Ram , Minister for Labour, Govern 
ment of Himachal Pradesh , Simla ." 

___ [ No. F . Z-16016 / 2 / 71 - HI. ] 


" Shri M , M . Rajendran , 
Secretary to the Government of Tamil Nadu , 
Department of Labour and Employment, 
Madras. " 

[ No. F . U.201 / 1 / 70 - HI-Vol .II .] 


का ० प्रा० 3 108 - यनः हिमाचल प्रदेश राज्य सरकार 
ने कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम, 1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) 
की धारा 4 के खण्ड ( घ ) के अनुसरण में श्री सालिग राम , श्रम 
मंत्री , हिमाचल प्रदेश सरकार को श्री सुख राम के स्थान पर कचारी 
राज्य बीमा निगम के उस राज्य का प्रतिनिधित्व करने के लिए 
नामनिविष्ट किया है । 


का० प्रा० 3107-- यतः कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 
1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 4 के खण्ड ( घ ) के अनुसरण 
में तमिलनाडु की सरकार ने श्री एम० एम० राजेन्द्रन , सचिव , 
तामिलनाडु सरकार, श्रम और रोजगार विभाग , को श्री वी० एस० 
सुब्बाइया के स्थान पर कमचारी राज्य बीमा निगम में उस राज्य 
का प्रतिनिधित्व करने के लिए नामनिर्दिष्ट किया है ; 

अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 4 के अनुसरण में 
केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व श्रम , रोजगार 


अतः, अब , कमचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 
का 34 ) की धांग 4 के अनुसरण में केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा 
भारत सरकार के श्रम , रोजगार और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और 
रोजगार विभाग ) , की अधिसूचना का० प्रा० सं० 2763 , 
तारीख 27 मई , 1971 में निम्नलिखित संशोधन करती है , 
अर्थात् : - - 


उक्त अधिसूचना में “[ राज्य सरकारों द्वारा धारा 4 के 
खण्ड ( घ ) के अधीन नामनिर्दिष्ट ] " शीर्षक के नीचे मद 11 -क 


4416 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21. 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II 


के सामने को प्रविष्टि के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टि रखी 
जाएगी, अर्यात् : - - 

" श्री मालिग राम , 
श्रम मंत्री, 
हिमाचल प्रदेश सरकार , 
शिमला । " 


[ सं० फा० जेड - 16016/ 2/ 71 - एच आई ] 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

___ New Delhi , the 8th August 1972 
S . O . 3110 . — Whereas the Central Government having 
been satisfied that the public interest so required had , 
in pursuance of the provisions of sub - clause ( vi) of 
clause ( n ) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 
1947 ( 14 of 1947 ), declared by the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and 
Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employ 
ment) NO. S . O . 517 dated 22nd January , 1972 , seryice 
in the pyrites mining industry, to be a public utility 
service for the purposes of the said Act, for a period 
of six months from the 22nd Fobruary , 1972 . 

And whereas the Central Government is of opinion 
that public interest required extension of the said 
period by a further period of six months; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by the proviso to sub- clause ( vi ) of clause ( n ) of sec 
tion 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act . 1947 (14 of 1947 ) , 
the Central Government hereby declares the said ser 
vice to be a public utility service for the purposes of 
the said Act for a further period of six months from 
the 22nd August , 1972. 

[ No . F . S. 11025 / 3 / 72- LR.I.] 
S . S. SAHASRANAMAN. Under Secy . 


CORRIGENDUM 
New Delhi, the 8th September 1972 


S . O . 3109. In the notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Labour and Rehabilitation 
( Department of Labour and Employment ) No. S . O . 
764 dated the 3rd February , 1972 , published at pages 
988 and 987 of the Gazette of India, Part II , Section 
3 , Sub- section ( ii ) dated the 4th March, 1972 at page 
986 
(a ) in line 11 for " are not in force" read " are in 

force " ; 
(b ) in lines 16 to 17 omit " or until the enforce 

ment of the provisions of Chapter V of the 
said Act in those areas , whichever is ear 
lier " . 

[ No. F . 603 ( 33 ) / 70 - HI .] 
DALJIT SINGH , Under Secy . 


श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 

( नई दिल्ली , 8 अगस्त , 1972 
का० प्रा० 3110 यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार ने, यह समाधान 
हो जाने पर कि लोक हित में ऐसा अपेक्षित है , औद्योगिक 
विवाद अधिनियम, 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 2 के 
खण्ड ( ढ) के उपखण्ड ( 6 ) के उपबन्धों के अनुसरण में , भारत 
सरकार के श्रम और पुनर्वास मन्त्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 
की अधिसूचना सं० का० प्रा० 517 तारीख 22- 1 - 1972 
द्वारा पाइराइट्स खनन उद्योग में सेवा को उक्त अधिनियम के 
प्रयोजनों के लिए 22 - 2 - 1972 से छः मास की कालावधि 
के लिए लोक उपयोगी सेवा घोषित किया था ; 


शदिध पत्र 


नई दिल्ली , 8 सितम्बर , 1972 


का० प्रा० 3109 :- भारत सरकार के श्रम और 
पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) को अधिसूचना 
सं० का० प्रा० 764, तारीख 3 फरवरी , 1972 जो भारत के 
राजपत्र , भाग 2 खण्ड 3, उपखण्ड ( ii ) , तारीख 4 मार्च, 1972 
के प्रष्ठ 987 पर प्रकाशित हुई थी , में पृष्ठ 987 पर --- 

( क ) नत्रों पंक्ति में “प्रयन नहीं है " के हयान पर 

_ "प्रवृत्त है ” बढ़ें , 


और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि लोक हित में उक्त 
कालावधि का 6 मास की और कालावधि के लिए बढ़ाया जाना 
अपेक्षित है ; 


( ख ) 13 से 15 पंक्ति में से “ या तब तक के लिए, 

जब तक की उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5 के 
उपबन्ध उन क्षेत्रों में प्रवन नहीं हो जाते, जो भी 
पहले हों " शब्द निकाल दें । 


अतः, अब , औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 
का 14 ) की धारा 2 के खण्ड ( 8) के उपखण्ड ( 6 ) के परन्तुक 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार एत 
दद्वारा उक्त सेवा को उक्त अधिनियम के प्रयोजनों के लिए 22- 8 
1972 मे 6 मास की और कालावधि के लिए लोक उपयोगी सेवा 
घोषित करती है । 

[ संख्या फा० 11025 / 3 / 72- एल० आर० - 1 ] 

एस ० एस० सहस नामन , अवर सचिव । 


[ सं० फाइस 603( 33 )/ 70 - एच आई ] 

दलजीत सिंह , अवर सचिव । 


SEC. 3( i)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21; 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4417 


ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 


अभियोजन का संचालन के लिए, श्री जे०पी० दबे , अधिवक्ता , 
जबलपुर को विशेष लोक अभियोजक नियुक्त करती है । 


New Delhi, the 2nd August 1972 


[ संख्या 225/ 35/ 71 - ए० बी० डी० II ] 


3 


बी० सी० बंजानी, अवर सचिव । 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 
New Delhi, the 19th August 1972 


S . O . 3111. - - In exercise of the power conferred by 
sub- section ( 1 ) of section 13A of the Representation of 
the People Act, 1950 , the Election Commission, in con 
sultation with the Government of Tripura , hereby 
nominates Shri Sukumar Chakraborty , Judicial Secre 
tary , Tripura Government, as the Chief Electoral Officer 
for the State of Tripura with effect from the 7th July , 
1972 and until further orders vice Shri Amitable 
Dutta. 

[ No. 154/ TP / 72. ] 

By Order, 

A , N . SEN , Secy . 
भारत निर्वाचन आयोग 

नई दिल्ली 2 अगस्त , 1972 
एस० प्रो० 3111. --- लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 
1950 की धारा 13- क की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए , निर्वाचन आयोग निपुरा सरकार के परामर्श 
से , श्री अभिताभ दत्त के स्थान पर, श्री सुकुमार चक्रवर्ती, 
न्यायिक सचिव , त्रिपुरा सरकार, को 7 जुलाई , 1972 से 
अगले आदेशों तक त्रिपुरा राज्य के लिए मुख्य निर्वाचन आफिसर 
के रूप में एतद्वारा नामनिर्देशित करता है । 

[सं० 154/त्रिपुरा/ 72]. 

आदेश से , 
एस० एन० सेन, सचिव । 


S . O . 3113 . — In pursuance of the clause ( 1 ) of the 
article 239 of the Constitution , the President hereby 
directs that the Administrator of Union territory of 
Mizoram shall, in respect of that territory and subject 
to the control of the President, also exercise the 
powers and discharge the functions of the Central 
Government under the Explanation to section 25 of 
the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 ( 26 of 1881 ). 

[ No. 13 / 19/ 72 - MZ.] 


I. P . GUPTA , Deputy Secy. 


गृह मंत्रालय 


नई दिल्ली, 19 अगस्त, 1972 


CABINET SECRETARIAT 

(Department of Porsonnel ) 

New Delhi, the 4th September , 1972 
S . O . 3112 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - section ( 1 ) of section 492 of the Code of Criminal 
Procedure, 1898 ( 5 of 1898 ) , the Central Government 
hereby appoints Shri J . P. Dubey , Advocate , Jabalpur , 

Special Public Prosecutor for conducting the pro 
secution, in the case arlsing out of RC No. 6 / 70 - Jabal 
pur, against Shri S . P . N . Sharma, ex - Pilot Officer and 
others, in the Court of Session Judge, Jabalpur , 

___ [ No. 225 / 35 / 71 - AVD.-II.] 
B . G . VANJANI, Under Secy . 


एस० प्रो० 31 13.--- संविधान के अनुच्छद 239 के खंड ( 1 ) 
के अनुसरण में , राष्ट्रपति एतद्द्वारा यह निदेश देते हैं कि मिजोराम 
संघ शाशित क्षेत्र के प्रशासन परक्राम्यसंलेख--- अधिनियम , 1881 
( 1881 का 26 ) की धारा 25 के स्पष्टीकरण के अन्तर्गत 
उस संघ - शाशित क्षत्र के संबंध में राष्ट्रपति के नियंत्रण के अधीन 
केन्द्रीय सरकार की शक्तियों का भी प्रयोग करेंग और एस संघ 
शासित क्षेत्र का कार्य देखेंगे । 


[ सं० 13/ 19/ 72 -एम० जड ] 


प्राई० पी गुप्ता, उप सचिव । 


मंत्रिमंडल सचिवालय 

( कामिर्का वभाग ) 
नई दिल्ली , 4 सितम्बर, 1972 


New Delhi, the 25th August 1972 


S . O . 3114 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
Subrsection ( 1 ) of section 25 of the Code of Civil 
Procedure, 1908 (6 of 1908 ) and with the consent of 
the Government of the State of Maharashtra , the 
Central Government hereby transfers the proceedings 
of Special Civil Application No . 18 of 1971 from the 
Court of the Judicial Commissioner of Goa, Daman 
and Diu at Panaji to the High Court at Bombay . 


एस० ओ० 3112. -- दण्ड प्रक्रिया संहिता , 1898 
( 1898 का 5 ) की धारा 492 की उपधारा ( 1 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हये केन्द्रीय सरकार , 
एतद्द्वारा , सशन कोर्ट , जबल पुर में श्री एस० पी० एन० 
शर्मा , भूतपूर्व पाईलट आफिसर और अन्यों के विरूद्ध 
पार सी सं० 6/ 70 जबलपुर से उत्पन्न मामले में अभियुक्त के 


[ No. 5/ 2/ 72- GP.] 
By orders and in the name of the President of India . 

S. C . VAISH, Deputy Secy . 


4418 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[PART II— 


हेतुक था , उक्त प्ररूप में न्यायोचित ठहराई गई दर पर नवीकरण 
फीस की इजाजत दे सकेगा । 


नई दिल्ली, 25 अगस्त , 1972 
एस० प्रो०3114. - - सिविल प्रक्रिया संहिता 1908 ( 1908 की 
5 बी ) की धारा 25 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए , तथा महाराष्ट्र राज्य की सरकार की 
सहमति से , केन्द्रीय सरकार सन 1971 की "स्पेशल सिविल 
एप्लोकेशन संख्या 16 " की कार्यवाही को एतद्वारा पणजी 
स्थित गोपा, दमण व दीव के न्यायिक आयुक्त के न्यायालय से 
उच्च न्यायालय, बंबई , को स्थानान्तरित करती है । 


[ संख्या 21 / 40/ 72-जी० पी० ए० II ] 

अमर सिंह, मचिव । 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 7th August 1972 


[संख्या 5/2072 -जी० पी० ] 
भारत के राष्ट्रपति के आदेश से तथा उनके नाम में 

सूरेश चन्द्र वैश्य , उप सचिव । 


S . O . 3116 . - In pursuance of sub - sections ( 1 ) , ( 4 ) and 
( 5 ) of Section 8 of the Haj Committee Act , 1958 
(No. 51 of 1959 ) , the election of Shri Ahmed B . Zakaria 
as Chairman and Shrimati Shirin $ . Somjee and Shri 
T . Abdul Wahid as Vice -Chairmen of the Haj Com 
mittee , Bombay , at the meeting of the Committee held 
on the Bth August, 1972, is hereby notified. 


[ No. M II . 1181 / 19 / 70. ] 


ORDER 
New Delhi , the 5th September 1972 


R . C . ARORA , 
Director (Wana and Haj Affalrs .) 


विदेश मन्त्रालय 


S . 0 . 3115 . - In pursuance of sub-rule 3 of rule 57 
of the Arms Rules 1982, the Central Government 
hereby exempt in the public interest Hrs . Birgitt Her 
belt wife of Shri G . Herbelt Consulate General of the 
Federal Republic of Germany in India from the pay 
ment of fee for the grant of renewal of any licence in 
from III set out in schedule III to the said Rule in 
respect of the arms and ammunition covered by the said 
licence : 

Provided that if the application for renewal of any 
such licence is not made within one month of the 
date on which the licence expires, the Licencing 
Authority , may, unless the applicant satisfies the 
Licensing Authority that he had sufficient cause for 
not making the application during that period , levy 
renewal fee at the rate of pustified in the form , 


नई दिल्ली , 7 अगस्त , 1972 
__ एस० ओ० 3116. --- हजसमिति अधिनियम , 1959 ( 1959 
का 51 ) की धारा 6 की उपधारा ( 1 ), ( 4 ) और ( 5 ) के 
अनुसरण में हजसमिति , बम्बई के अध्यक्ष और उपाध्याक्षों के पदों 
पर निम्नलिखित व्यक्तियों केनिर्वाचन को इसके द्वारा अधिसूचित 
किया जाता है ; इसके यह निर्वाचन 5 अगस्त 1972 को उक्त 
समिति की बैठक में हुमा : 
1. अध्यक्ष : श्री महमद बी० जकारिया 

उपाध्यक्ष श्रीमति शीरीन एस० सोमजी 
3. उपाध्यक्ष : श्री टी० अब्दुल वाहिद 


AMAR SINGH , Dy. Secy . 


प्रादेश 


[ सं० एम- II-1181/ 19/ 70] 

पार० सी० अरोड़ा , 
निदेशक ( वाना एवं हज कार्य ) । 


नई दिल्ली , 5 सितम्बर, 1972 
एस० प्रो० 31 15. -..- पायध नियम , 1962 के नियम 57 के 
उपनियम 3 के अनुसरण में , केन्द्रीय सरकार भारत में फेडरल 
रिपब्लिक आफ जर्मनी के महा कोंसल ( कानसुलेट जनरल ) 
श्री जी . हरबेल्ट की पत्नी श्रीमती बिरजिट हरबेल्ट को उक्त 
नियम की अनुसुची 3 में उपणित प्ररूप 3 में किसी अनुज्ञप्ति 
की , उक्त अनुज्ञप्ति के अन्तर्गत आने वाले प्रायुध और गोला 
बारूद के बारे में , मंजरी या नवीकरण के लिये , फीस के संदाय 
से लोकहित में , एतद्द्वारा छूट देती है । 

परन्तु यदि किसी अनुशाप्ति के नवीकरण के लिये श्रावेदन , 
उस तारीख से , जिसको अनशप्ति ममाप्त होती है, एक मास 
के भीतर नहीं किया जाता है तो अनुज्ञापन प्राधिकारी , यदि 
आवेदक अनुज्ञापन प्राधिकारी का समाधान कर देता है कि 
उसके पास उस अवधि के दौरान आवेदन न करने का पर्याप्त 


MINISTRY OF WORKS AND HOUSING 

(Directorate of Estates ) 

New Delhi , the 11th August 1972 
8 . 0 , 3117 . - In pursuance of the provisions of rule 
45 of the Fundamental Rules , the President hereby 
makes the following rules further to amend the Allot 
ment of Government Residences (General Pool in 
Delhi ) Rules, 1983 , namely :--- - 


1. ( 1 ) These rules may be called the Allotment of 
Government Residences (General Pool in Delhi) Fifth 
Amendment Rules , 1972 . 


SEC. 3(ii) ] 


THE GAZATTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4419 


2 . Amendment of Rules 817- B - 12 . - In the Allotmont 
of Government Residences (General Pool in Delhi) 
Rules, 1983, in rule 317 - B - 12 , in sub -rule ( 1 ) , for the 


apply where the Central Public Works Department 
certifies that the accommodation is not yet ready for 
occupation " , the following portion shall be substitut 
ed , namely : 


" Provided that nothing contained herein ahall 

apply where the Central Public Works De 
partment certifies that the accommodation 18 
not it tor occupation, " 


[ No, F . 18011( 17 ) / 88 - POL.T.) 


R. B. SAXENA, 
Dy. Director of Estates ( Policy ) 

ex -officio , Under Secy. 
( सम्पदा निदेशालय ) 


( 2 ) They shall come into torce on and from the first 
day of September, 1972 . 

2 . In the Allotment of Government Residences 
(General Pool in Delhi) Rules, 1963, in S . R . 317- B - 11 in 
the Table below sub -rule ( 2 ) , under the heading Events , 
in item (ix ) after the expression " F . R. 86 , tne following 
shall be inserted , namely : 
" or earned leave granted to Government servants , 
who retiro under F . R. 56 (1 ) ". 

[ No. F.12033 ( 7) / 71- Pol ( i ).] 

R- B. SAXENA, 

Dy. Director 

of Estates ( Policy ) 
निर्माण भौर पावास मन्त्रालय 

( सम्पदा निदेशालय ) 

मई विस्ली, 11 अगस्त, 1972. 
का . पा . 3117. -- राष्ट्रपति , मूल नियम के नियम 
45 के उपबन्धों के अनुसरण में , सरकारी निवास स्थानों 
का प्रावंटन (दिल्ली में साधारण पूल ) नियम , 1963 में पौर 
संशोधन करने के लिए एतदद्वारा निम्नलिखित नियम बनाले 
हैं , अर्थात् : 
1. ( 1 ) इन नियमों का नाम सरकारी निवास स्थानों 
का भावंटन ( दिल्ली में साधारण पूल ) पांचवां संशोधन नियम , 
1972 होगा । 

( 2) ये नियम 1 सितम्बर, 1972 से प्रवृत्त होंगे । 
2. सरकारी निवास स्थानों का प्रावंटन (दिल्ली में साधारण 
पूल ) नियम , 1963 में अनु० नि . 317 ख -11 में , उपनियम 
( 2 ) के नीचे की सारणी में , “ घटनाएं " शीर्षक के नीचे, मद 
( IX ) में , “ सेवा निवृत्ति पूर्व छुट्टी या मू०नि० 86 के माधीन 
अनुदत्त नामन्जूर - छुट्टी " अभिव्यक्ति के पश्चात् , निम्नलिखित 
मन्तः स्थापित किया जायगा , प्रर्थात् : 

___ " या ऐसे सरकारी सेवकों को अनुदरत उपाजित छुट्टी जो 
मू० नि० 56( - 1 ) के आधीन सेवानिवृत्ति होते हैं " । 


नई दिल्ली , 7 सितम्बर 1972 
का० प्रा० 3118.--- राष्ट्रपति, मूल नियमके नियम 45 के उपबंधों 
के अनुसरण में , अनुपूरक नियम के भाग 8, प्रभाग 26- ख 
में अंतविष्ट , सरकारी निवास स्थानों का आवंटन (दिल्ली में 
साधारण पुल ) नियम , 1963 में पीर संशोधन करने के लिये 
एतद्वारा निम्निलिखित नियम बनाते हैं । प्रर्थात्: - - 


1. संक्षिप्त नाम पौर प्रारम्भ.--- ( 1 ) इन नियमों का 
नाम सरकारी निवास स्थानों का प्रावंटन (दिल्ली में साधारण 
पूल ) छटा सशोधन नियम , 1972 होगा । 


( 2) ये नियम राजपत्र में प्रकाशन की तारीख को प्रवृत्त 
होंगे । 


2. नियम 317. - ख - 12 का संशोधन - सरकारी निवास 
स्थानों का भावंटन ( दिल्ली में साधारण पूल ) नियम , 1963 
में , नियम 317 - ख - 12 में , उपनियम ( 1 ) में " परन्तु इसमें 
मंन्तर्विष्ट कोई भी बात उस दशा में लागू नहीं होगी जहां केन्द्रीय 
लोक निर्माण विभाग यह प्रमाणित कर दें कि वह जगह अधि 
भोग के लिये भभी तैयार नहीं है " भाग के स्थान पर ,निम्न 
लिखित भाग प्रतिस्थापित किया जाएगा , मर्यात :----- 


[ सं० फा० 12033 ( 7)/ 71 -नीति ( 2 ) ] 

राम बहादुर सक्सेना, 

उप सम्पदा निदेशक ( नीति ) । 
( Direotorate of Estates ) 
New Delhi, the 7th September 1972 
S . O . 3118. ---In pursuance of the provisions ot rule 
45 of the Fundamental Rules , the President hereby 
makes the following rules furiher to amend the 
Allotment of Government Residences (General Pool 
in Delhi ) Rules, 1963 contained in Part VIII , Division 
XXVI- B of the Supplementary Rules , namely : 


" परन्तु इसमें प्रतषिष्ट कोई भी बात उस मामले में लाग 
नहीं होगी जिसमें केन्द्रीय लोक निर्माण विभाग यह प्रमाणित 
कर दे कि मावास अधिभोग के योग्य नहीं है । " 


[ सं० फा• 18011 ( 17 )/ 68-निति -1 ] 


1. Short title and commencement. - ( 1 ) These rules 
may be called the Allotment of Government Re81 
dences (General Pool in Delhi) Sixth Amendment 
Rules, 1972. 

(2 ) They shall come into force on the date of their 
publication in the Official Gazette. 


रामबाहदुर सक्सेना , 
उप सम्पदा निदेशक ( नीति) पौर पदेनप्रवर सचिय । 


4420 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[PART II , 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
( Department of Expenditure ) 

New Delhi, the 10th August 1972 
S . O , 3119 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred 
by the proviso to article 309 and clause ( 5 ) of article 
148 of the Constitution , and of all other powers enabl 
ing him in thus behalf , the President, after consultation 
with the Comptroller and Auditor General of India 
in respect of persons serving in the Indian Audit and 
Accounts Department hereby makes the following rules 
further to amend the General Provident Fund (Central 
Services ) Rules, 1960, namely : 

- 1.,(1 ) These rules may called the Gerferal Provi 
dent Fund ( Central Services ) Seventh Amendment 
Rules, 1072. 

(2 ) They shall come into force on the date of their 
publication in the Oficial Gazette . 

2 . In rule 8 of the General Provident Fund (Central 
Services ) Rules, 1960 , in sub - rule ( 4 ) , for the opening 
paragraph, the following shall be substituted , namely --- 

" The amount of subscription so fixed may be 
reduced once at any time during the course of the 
year or may be enhanced twice during the course of 
the year ". 


(Department Banklag ) 

New Delhi, the 17th August 1972 
S. 0 . 3121 . - - In pursuance of clause ( d ) ot sub - section 
( 1 ) of Section 8 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 
1934 ( 2 of 1934 ) , and in supersegsion of the agtification 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance, 
Department of Banking, No. F . 3 (47 ) - BC /69, dated 
the 25th October , 1969 , the Central Government hereby 
nominates Shri N . C . Sen Gupta , to be a Director of 
the Central Board of the Reserve Bank of India , vice 
Shri A . Baksi . 

[ No. 9-1 (5)-72 / BOL.] 

V . M . BHIDE , Addi. Secy. 
( बैंकिग विभाग ) 
नई दिल्ली , 17 अगस्त , 1972 


एस० मो0 3 121. --- भारतीय रिजर्व बैंक अधिनियम , 1934 
( 1934 का 2) की धारा 8 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( प ) के 
अनुसरण में , और भारत सरकार, वित्त मंत्रालय, बैंकिंग विभाग 
की अधिसूचना संख्या एफ० 3 ( 47) -बी०सी०/ 69 दिनांक 25 
अमटूबर, 1969 का अधिक्रमण करते हुए, भारत सरकार एतद्द्वारा 
श्री एन० सी० सेन गुप्ता को , श्री ए० नक्सो के स्थान पर , भारतीय 
रिजर्व बैंक के केन्द्रीय मंडल का एक निदेशक नामित करती है । 


[ No. 13 / ( 2 ) - E . V . ( B ) / 72. ] 
S . S . L . MALHOTRA , under Secy . 


[ संम्मा 9 - 1 ( 5) - 72/बी० मो० I ] 


ह :- वी० एम० भिडे, अपर सचिष । 


( Department of Banking) 

New Delhi, the 11th August 1972 
S . 0 . 3120.---In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 53 of the Banking Regulation Act , 1949 (10 of 
1949), the Central Government, on the recommenda 
tion of the Reserve Bank of India , hereby declares that 
till the 1st February , 1973 , the provisions ot section 10B 
of the said Act shall not apply to the Bari Doab Bank 
Ltd., Hoshiarpur . 

[ No. 16 (1 )- BC / 71- II .] 
K . YESURATNAM , Under Secy . 


( Department of Banking , 

New Delhi, the 22nd August 1972 
S. 0 . 3122. - In exercise of the powers conterred 
by Section 53 read with Section 68 of the Booking 
Regulation Act, 1949 ( 10 of 1940 ) , the Cantral Govern 
ment, on the recommendation of the Reserve Bank of 
India , hereby declares that the provisions of pub 
section ( 1 ) of Section 11 of the said Act shall not 
apply to Cooch Betar Central Co - operative Bank 
Limited , Cooch Behar for the period from 1st March, 
1969 to 28th February , 1973. 

[ No. F . 8/1 / 72- AC. ] 


L . D . KATARIA, Dy. Secy . 


( बैंकिंग विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली, 11 अगस्त , 1972 
एस० प्रो० 3 120 . - -बैंकिंग विनियमन अधिनियम, 1949 
( 1949 का 10वां ) की धारा 53 में प्रवत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए, भारत सरकार , भारतीय रिजर्व बैंक की सिफारिश 
पर, एतद्वारा घोषणा करती है कि उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 
10 बी के अनुबन्ध दी बारी दोप्राब बैंक लिमिटेड, होशियारपुर 
पर पहली फरवरी , 1973 तक लागू नहीं होंगे । 

[सं० 16 ( 1)- जी सी/ 71 II ] 

के० येसुरस्नम , अवर सचिव । 


( बैंकिम विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली, 22 अगस्त, 1972 
एस० प्रो0 3 122.--- बैंकिम विनियमम अधिनियम , 
1949 ( 1949 का 10वां ) की धारा 56 के साथ पठित धारा 
53 के द्वारा प्रदत्त पाक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार , 
भारतीय रिजर्व बैंक की सिफारिश पर एलद्वारा घोषित करती है 
कि उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 11 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के उपमन्ध 
कूच बिहार सेन्ट्रल को - आपरेटिव बैंक लिमिटेड, कूच बिहार 


Sma 3( i) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4421 


पर 1 मार्ष , 1969 से 28 फरवरी, 1973 तक की अवधि 
के लिए लागू नहीं होंगे । 


[संख्या एफ ० 8/1/ 72-ए ० सी०] 


ल ०६० कटारिया , उप सचिव । 


( बैंकिंग विभाग ) 
नई दिल्ली , 24 अगस्त , 1972 
एस ० ओ० 3 124. - बैंककारी कम्पनी ( उपक्रमों का अर्जन 
और अन्तरण ) अधिनियम, 1970 ( 1970 का 5 ) की धारा 7 की 
उपधारा ( 3 ) के खण्ड ( क ) के परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का 
प्रयोग करते हुए, भारत सरकार, एतद्वारा , श्री पी०डी० 
कसबेकर के स्थान पर श्री एम ० के ० वेंकटाचलम , संयुक्त सचिव , 
बैंकिंग विभाग , वित्त मंत्रालय, नई दिल्ली को बैंक माफ इण्डिया के 
प्रथम निदेशक बोर्ड का सदस्य नियुक्त करती है । 

[ संख्या एफ० 9-4 ( 28) / 72 - बी • प्रो० ( I) ] 


8. 0 . 3125 . - In exercise of the powers conferred 
by proviso to clause ( a ) of sub -section ( 3 ) of section 
7 of the Banking Companies (Acquisition & Transfer 
of Undertakings ) Act , 1970 (5 of 1970 ) , the Central 
Govt . hereby appoints Shri M . Dandapani , Director , 
Department of Banking, Mințstry _ of Finance, New 
Delhi, as a member of the First Board of Directors 
of Union Bank of India in place of Shri P . K . Kaul, 
with effect from 1st September , 1972. 

[ No . F. 9-4 ( 28) / 72- BOI (III).] 


(Department of Banking ) 

New Delhi, the 24th August 1972 
8 . 0 . 3123. - - In exercise of the powers conferred 
by proviso to clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 3 ) of Section 
7 of the Banking Companies ( Acquisition & Transfer 
of Undertakings) Act , 1970 ( 5 of 1970 ) , the Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri D . N . Ghosh, Joint 
Secretary, Department of Banking, Ministry of Finan 
ce, New Delhi as a member of the First Board of Direc 
torst of United Commercial Bank in place of Dr. Ashok 
Mitra, with effect from 1st September . 1972 , 

[ No. F . 8 -4 ( 28 ) / 72 - BOI ( II ) . ] 
D . M . SUKTHANKAR, 

Director . 
(ॉकंग विभाग ) 
नई दिल्ली, 24 अगस्त , 1972 
एस . मो० 3123. - - बैंककारी कम्पनी ( उपक्रमों का 
मन और अन्तरण ) अधिनियम , 1970 ( 1970 का 5 ) की 
धारा 7 की उपधारा ( 3) के खण्ड (क ) के परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , भारत सरकार , एतद्वारा, डा . 
प्रलोक मित्र के स्थान पर श्री डी० एन • घोष , संयुक्त सचिव , 
किंग विभाग, वित्त मंत्रालय , नई दिल्ली को 1 सितम्बर, 1972 से 
यूनाइटेड कमर्शियल बैंक के प्रथम निवेशक बोर्ड का सदस्य नियुक्त 
करती है । 

[ सं० एफ० 9-4 ( 28)/ 72 -बी० ओ० I ( II) ] 


एस प्रो० 3 1 25 . --बैंककारी कम्पनी ( उपक्रमों का पर्जन और 
अन्तरण ) अधिनियम , 1970 ( 1970 का 5 ) की धारा 7 की उप 
धारा ( 3) के खण्ड ( क ) के परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए, भारत सरकार , एतदद्वारा श्री पी० के० कौल के स्थान 
पर श्री एम० दण्डपाणि , निदेशक , बैंकिंग विभाग, वित मन्त्रालय , 
नई दिल्ली को 1 सितम्बर, 1972 से यूनियन बैंक माफ 
इण्डिया के प्रथम निदेशक बोर्ड का सदस्य नियुक्त करती है । 

[ संख्या एफ० 9 - 4 ( 28 )/ 72 -बी० पी० I (III )] 


मे० एम ० सुकथनकर, निवेशक । 


S . 0 . 3126.....In exercise of the powers conferred 
by proviso to clause ( a ) of sub -section ( 3 ) of Section 
7 of the Banking Companies ( Aquisition & Transfer 
of Undertakings ) Act, 1970 (6 of 1970 ) , Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri D . M , Sukthankar , 
Director, Department of Banking , Ministry of Finance 
New Delhi as a member of the First Board of Directors 
of Bank of Maharashtra in place of Dr. R . M . Honavar, 
with effect from 1st September, 1972 . 

[ No. F. 9-4(28) / 72- BOT (IV).] 
एस० प्रो० 3 126. - - * ककारी कम्पनी ( उपक्रमों का पर्जन 
और अन्तरण ) अधिनियम, 1970 ( 1970 का 5 ) की 
धारा 7 की उपधारा ( 3 ) के खण्ड ( क ) के परन्तुक 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, भारत 
सरकार , एतवद्वारा, डा० प्रार . एम० होनावर के स्थान 
पर श्री डी० एम० सुकथनकर , निदेशक बैंकिंग विभाग , वित्त 
मन्त्रालय , नई दिल्ली को 1 सितम्बर , 1972 से बैंक आफ महाराष्ट्र 
के प्रथम निदेशक बोर्ड का सदस्य नियुक्त करती है । 


( Department of Banking ) 

New Delhi, the 24th August 1972 
S . 0 . 3124 . - In exercise of the powers conferred 
by proviso to clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 
7 of the Banking Companies ( Acquisition and Trans 
ler of Undertakings ) Act , 1970 (5of 1970 ) , the Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri M . K . Venkatacha 
lam , Joint Secretary , Department of Banking , Ministry 
of Finance , New Delhi, as a member of the First Board 
of Directors of Bank of India in place of Shri P . D . 
Kasbekar. 

INo. F . 9 -4 (28) / 72 - BOI (I ).] 


[ संख्या एफ० 9 -4( 28 )/ 72 -बी० प्रो . I (IV ) ] 


4422 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


TAIT II 


( बैंकिंग विभाग ) 


S . O . 3127 . - In exercise of the powers conferred 
by proviso to clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 3 ) of Section 
7 of the Banking Companies (Aquisition and Transfer 
of Undertakings ) Act, 1970 (6 of 1970 ) , the Central 
Government hereby appoints Dr. D . N . Saxena , Joint 
Secretary, Department of Banking, Ministry of Finance , 
New Delhi, as a member of the First Board of Direc 
tors of Bank of Baroda in place of Shri A . K , Dutt , 
with effect from 1st September, 1972. 

[ No . F . 9 - 4 ( 28 ) -72 / ROI ( V ) .] 
एम०प्रो० 3127. बैंककारी कम्पनी ( उपक्रमों का अर्जन और अन्तरVI 
अधिनियम , 1970 ( 1970 का 5 ) की धारा 7 की उपधारा 
( 3 ) के खण्ड ( क ) के परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हए, भारत सरकार, एतद्वारा , श्री ए० के० दत्त के स्थान पर 
डा० डी० एन० सक्सेना, संयुक्त सचिव , बैंकिंग विभाग वित 
मन्त्रालय , नई दिल्ली को 1 सितम्बर , 1972 से बैंक प्राफ 
बड़ौदा के प्रयम निदेशक बोर्ड का सदस्य नियुक्त करती है । 

[ संख्या एफ० 9- 4 ( 28 )/ 72 - पी० प्रो० 1 ( V ) ] 


एस ० प्रो 03129 : - भारतीय रिर्जव बैंक अधिनियम, 1934 
( 1934 का दूसरा ) की धारा 45 की उपधारा( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्धारा निदेश 
घेती है कि भारतीय रिजर्व बैंक दी जम्मू एण्ड काशमीर बैंक लिमिटेड 
प्रथवा भारतीय स्टेट बैंक (समनुषंगी बैंक ) अधिनियम , 
1959 ( 1959 का 38 ) में उल्लिखित किसी भी समनुषंगी 
बैंक अथवा बैंकिंग कम्पनीज ( उपक्रमों का अभिग्रहण और अन्तरण ) 
मधिनियम, 1970 ( 1970 का 5 वी ) की पहली अनुसूची के 
कालम 2 में निर्दिष्ट किसी भी निगमित निकाय को , स्टेट बैंक 
माफ इण्डिया ऐक्ट , 1955 के द्वारा गठित भारतीय स्टेट बैंक के 


अपना अभिकर्ता नियुक्त कर सकता है । 


[सं . 3 ( II ) -बी० ओ• III / 72 ] 


New Delhi, the 29th August 1972 


8 . 0 . 3128. - In exercise of the powers conferred 
by proviso to clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 3 ) of Section 
7 of the Banking Companies ( Aquisition and Transfer 
of Undertakings ) Act, 1970 (5 of 1970 ) , the Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri N . Sethuraman , 
Director , Department of Banking , Ministry of Finance , 
New Delhi, as a member of the First Board of Direc 
torg of Dena Bank in place of Shri S . M . Kelkar, with 
effect from 1st September , 1972. 

[ No. F . 9 - 4 ( 28 ) / 72- ROI ( VI ) .] 

___ D. N . GHOSH, It. Secy. 
एस० पो० 3128 बैंककारी कम्पनी ( उपक्रमों का प्रजन और 
अन्तरण ) अधिनियम , 1970 ( 1970 का " 5) की धारा 7 की 
" उपधारा ( 3) के खण्ड ( क ) के परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का 
प्रयोग करते हुए, भारत सरकार, एतदद्वारा , श्री एम० एम० केलकर 
के स्थान पर श्री एन० सेतुरामन , निदेशक , बैंकिंग विभाग, वित्त 
मन्त्रालय , नई दिल्ली को 1 सितम्बर, 1972 मे देना बैंक के प्रथम 
निदेशक बोई का सदस्य नियुक्त करती है । 
[ संख्या एफ० 9-4 ( 28 )/72-बी० मो०1 ( VI ) ] 

डी० एन० घोष 
संयुक्त सचिव , भारत सरकार । 


S . 0 . 3130. - In exercise of the powers conterred 
by section 53 of the Banking Regulation Act , 1949 ( 10 
of 1949 ) , the Central Government on the recommenda 
tion of the Reserve Bank of India hereby declares 
that the provisions of Section 9 of the said Act shall 
not apply , till the 18th July , 1973 to the New Bank of 
India Limited , in respect of the agricultural land 

measuring 2200 Sg. yards held by it at Sultanwind 
Gate , Amritsar . 

[ No. 14 (5 ) - B. O .III / 72. ] 
K . YESURATNAM , Under Secy . 


नई दिल्ली , 29 अगस्त 1972 


( Department of Banking ) 

New Delhi, the 26th August 1972 
S . O . 3129 , - In exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 45 of the Reserve Bank 
of India Act , 1984 ( No. 2 of 1934 ) the Central Govern 
ment hereby directs that the Reserve Bank of India 
may appoint the Jammu and Kashmir Bank Limited , 
or any subsidiary Bank 89 defined in the State Bank 
of India ( subsidiary banks ) Act , 1959 (No. 38 of 1959 ) 
or any body corporate specified in column 2 of the first 
schedule to the Banking companies ( Acauisition and 
transter of undertakings) Act , 1970 ( No. 8 of 1970 ) as 
its agent, in addition to the State Bank of India consti 
tuted by the State Bank of India Act 1958 , at any 
place within the State of Jammu and Kashmir , 


0 . बेकिंग नियमन , अधिनियम , 1949 
( 1949 का 10वां ) की धारा 53 द्वारा प्रपत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार , भारतीय रिजर्व बैंक की सिफारिश पर एतद् 
द्वारा घोषणा करती है कि उक्त प्रधिनियम की धारा9 के उपबन्ध 
18 जुलाई, 1973 सक दी न्यू बैंक आफ इण्डिया लिमिटेड के 
संबंध में लागू नहीं होंगे , जहाँ तक उनका संबंध सुल्तानविन्ड गेट, 
ममृतसर स्थित उपयुक्त बैंक की 2200 वर्ग गज कृषि भूमि से है । 

नई दिल्ली , 29 अगस्त 19 72 
[सं० 14( 5) - बी ० प्रो० III/ 72] 


के . येसूरस्नम , 
अवर सचिव , भारत सरकार । 


[ No. 3 ( 11) - B.O . III / 21 


SEC . 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTORAL 21, 1972, ASVINA 29 , 1994 


4423 


( Department of Revenue and Insurance ) 

New Delhi, the 3rd August 1972 
S . O . 3131 . In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - section ( 2 ) ( b ) of Section 80G of the Income-tat 

Act, 1961 ( 43 of 1981 ) , the Central Government 
hereby notifieg Shree Trimbakeshwar Temple, Trim 
bak, Distt. Nasik is of historic and archeological 
Importance and a place of public worship of renown 
throughout Maharashtra State and outside it for the 
purposes of the said section . 


[ No . 149| F . No. 176/34/ 72 -IT ( AI ).] 

___ B. MADHAVAN, Under Secy . 


( राजस्य मौर बीमा गिभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली , 3 अगस्त , 1972 
एम० प्रो० 313 1.- प्रायकर अधिनियम, 1961 ( 1961 का 
43) को धारा 803 को उपधारा ( 2 ) ( अ ) द्वारा परत शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हर , केन्द्रीय सरकार श्री त्यम्बकेश्वर टम्पल , 
प्रयम्बक , जिला नासिक को उक्त धारा के प्रयोजनों के लिए ऐति 
हासिक पीर पुरातत्वीय महत्व का पोर सम्पूण महाराष्ट्र राज्य 
और उसके बाहर प्रख्यात लोक- उपासना का स्थान प्रधिसूचित 
करती है । 
[म . 149/ फा० सं० 178/ 34/ 72- आ० क० ( ए 1) ] 

बी० माधवन, प्रवर सचिन , । 


2. यह प्रधिसूचना जो अधिसूचना सं0 161 ( फा० सं० 
404/ 26/ 71- आई टी सी सो ) तारीख 29 मई, 1971 को 
प्रतिष्ठित करती है, तुरन्त प्रवृत होगी । 
[ सं० 146 / फा० सं० 404/ 235 / 72 - प्राई ० सी०सी०] 

New Delhi, the 16th August 1972 
S . 0 . 3133. — In exercise of the powers conterred 
by sub - clause ( iii) of clause ( 44 ) of section 2 of the 
Income- tax Act, 1961 ( 43 of 1961 ) , the Central Govern . 
ment hereby authorises Shri P . C . John who lo a 
Gazetted Omcer of the Central Government to exercise 
the powers of a Tax Recovery Officer under the said 
Act. 

2 . This Notification shall come into force with im 
mediate effect . 

[ No. 157 / F . No. 404 / 245 / 72 -ITCC.] 

A. K . NASTA, Under Secy , 

नई दिल्ली , 16 अगस्त , 1972 
एस०प्रो० 3133.- आय -कर अधिनियम , 1961 ( 1981 का 43 ) 
की धारा 2 के खण्ड ( 44 ) के उपखण ( ii ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हए, केन्द्रीय सरकार श्री पी० सी० जान को , जो 
केन्द्रीय सरकार के राजपत्रित अधिकारी है , उक्त अधिनियम के 
मधीन कर वसूली अधिकारी की शक्तियों का प्रयोग करने के लिए 
एसद्वारा प्राधिकृत करती है । 

2. यह अधिसूचना तुरन्त प्रवृत्त होगी । 
[ सं० 157( फा० से . 404/ 245 / 72 - आईटी०सी०सी० ] 

ए . के . नास्ता , अपर सचिव । 


( Department of Revenue and Insurance ) 

INCOME- Tax 
New Delhi, the 28th July 1972 
S .O . 3132 . - In exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - clause ( iii ) of clause ( 44 ) of section 2 of the 
Income -tax Act, 1981 ( 43 of 1961 ) , the Central Gov 
ernment hereby authorises Shri Joginder Singh who is 
a Gazetted Officer of the Central Government, to 
exercise the powers of a Tax Recovery Officer under 
the said Act . 

2 . This Notiflcation which gupersedes Notification 
No. 181 ( F. No. 404 / 26 / 71 - TrCC ) , dated 29th May , 1971 
shall come into force with immediate effect. 


( Department of Economle Affairs ) 
( Office of the Controller of Capital Issues ) 

__ New Delhi , the 5th August 1972 
S. 0 . 3134 . In this Ofice, Notification s . o . No. 379, 
dated the 31st January, 1972, for the words the perlod. 
between the 1st June, 1972 and 9th September, 1872 
(both days inclusive ) the words the period between 
the 1st July 1972 and 5th August , 1812 ( both days 
inclusive ) may be subsitituted . 

[ No. F. 2 ( 2) - CCI / 72.] 

RAJ K . NIGAM , 
Addl. Controller of Capital Issues . 
( प्राधिक कार्य विभाग ) 
( पूंजी निर्गम नियंत्रक का कार्यालय ) 

नई दिल्ली , 5 अगस्त , 1972 
का . मा० 3134. - इस कार्यालय की दिनांक 31 
जनवरी 1972 की अधिसूचना सा० प्रा० संख्या 579 में , "पहली 
जून 1972 और 9 सितम्बर, 1972 ( दोनों दिनों सहित ) 
के बीच की अवधि " शब्दों के स्थान पर " पहली जुलाई 1972 
पौर 5 अगस्त 1972 (दोनों विनों सहित ) के बीच की पवधि " 
सदरजाएं । 


[ No. 146 / F. No . 404 / 235 / 72 -ITCC.] 


( राजस्व और बीमा विभाग ) 


प्राय-कर 


नई दिल्ली, 28 जुलाई 1972 
" एप० प्रो० 3132.- प्रायकर अधिनियम , 1961 ( 1981 का 43 ) 
" की धारा 2 के वाड ( 44) के उपाठ ( iii ) द्वारा पदम शविनयौ 
का प्रयोग करते डर, केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा श्री जोगिन्दर सिंह 
को , जो केन्द्रीय सरकार के राजपत्रित अधिकारी है, 31 अधिनियम 
के अधीन कर बसूनी अधिकारी की शक्तियों का प्रयोग करने के 
लिए नाधिकृत करती है । 


[ सं . का . 2 ( 2) - सी . सी . भाt० / 72 ] 

राज . . जिनम , 
अतिरिक्त पूंजी निर्मम मिला । 


THE GAZETTE OM ANEXA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 /ASVINA- 29 . 1894 


OOT LECTORATE OF CENTRAL EXVESE 
CALOUTTA AND ORISSA 

CENTRAL EXCISE 
Calcutta , the 18th February 1971 
9 . 0 . 8185 .- In exercise of the powers conferred 
upon mer under Section 2 ( a ) of the Produce Cess Act , 
1968 ( 15 of 1966 ) read with Government of India , 
Ministry of Food , Agriculture, Community Develop 
ment , and Cooperation (Department of Agriculture) 


Notification No . G SR . 884 dated 26th March , 1969 
and in supersession of the Collectorate Notification 
No . 2 -CE / 70 / dated oth March , 1970 , I, Shri N . Mookher 
jee, Collector of Central Excise , Calcutta and Orisba , 
hereby authorise the Central Excise Omcers specified 
in column 1 of the Table below to exercise within their 
respective jurisdiction the powers of "Collector " under 
the Produce Cosg Act , 1986 in regard to the functions 
under various sections of the said Act as enumerated 
in columns 2 and 3 of the said Table . 


TABLE 


Rank of Officer 


In regard to 


Relevant Section of the Produce Cess Act, 

1966 , 


An officer not below the rank of an Inspector Power to inspect Mills etc , 

13 ( 1 ) & 13 (2 ). 
of Central Excise , 
Supdt. of C . R . 

Furnishing of the particulars about the 7 

Mills . 
Submission ofmonthly returns. . . 8 
Collection of Cou . . . . . . 9(1) & 9 ( ). 
Recovery oftoms due . 

19 ( a) (b ) & (c ) . 
Anett, Collr. of Central Exclee . . . Adtudfcation of Offences etc . . . . 10 


[ No . 1/ 71.] 
N , MOOKHERJEE, 

Collector , 


Sic. 3iy] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : OCTOBER 21, 19.72 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


deos 


MART 


केन्द्रीय उत्पाद शुल्क समाहरणालय कलकत्ता पौर मीसा 

के ग्रीय उत्पाद शुल्क 
कलकत्ता , 18 फरवरी , 1971 


एस० मो० 3135 -भारत सरकार के खाद्य, कृषि, सामुदायिक विकास तथा सहकारिता मंत्रालय ( कृषि विभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं० 
सा . का . नि . 884, दि . 26 - 3- 69 के साथ पठित उत्पाद उपकर अधिनियम , 1966 ( 11966 का 15 ) की धारा 2( क ) के मबीन 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए प्रोर समाहरणालय की अधिसूचना सं० 2 -के० 30/ 70,दि० 8 - 3 - 70 को अधिकांस करते हुए मैं , 
श्री एन० मुखर्जी, समाहर्ता, केन्द्रीय उताव शुल्क , कलकत्ता मोर उड़ीसा, निम्म सारणी के स्तम्भ 1 में विनिर्दिष्ट केन्द्रीय उत्पाद शुल्क 
अधिकारियों को अपनी अपनी अधिकारिता में उत्पाद उपकर अधिनियम , 1966 के मधीन उक्त प्रधिनियम की विभिन धारामों के अन्तर्गत 
उक्त सारणी के स्तम्भ 2 पोर 3 में प्रगणित कार्यों के सम्बन्ध में समाहर्ता की शक्तियों का प्रयोगकरने के लिए एतद्वारा प्राधिकृत करता 


सारणी 


पदाधिकारी का मोहदा 


सम्बन्ध में 


उत्पाद उपकर अधिनियम की सम्बद्ध धारा 


पदाधिकारी, जो केन्द्रीय उत्पाद शुल्क के मिसों मादिकीनिरीक्षण शक्ति 
निरीक्षक के पद से निम्न नहीं है । 


13( 1) और 13 ( 2) 


मधीक्षक, केन्द्रीय उत्पाद शुल्क 


मिलों के बारे में विशिष्टियां प्रस्तुत करने 
के सम्बंध में 
मासिक रिटन के प्रस्तुतीकरण के सम्बन्ध में 
उपफर के संग्रहण के सम्बन्ध में 
बाकी राशियों की पुनः प्राप्ति के सम्बन्ध में 


9 ( 1 ) और ( 2 ) 
12( क ) ( ब ) और ( ग ) 


16 


सहायक समाहर्ता केन्द्रीय उत्पाद शुल्क अपराधों मादि के निर्णय के सम्बन्ध में 

अपराधों की संरचना के सम्बन्ध में 


18 


- 


- 


[ No 1/ 71 ] 
एन० मुबर्णी, 
समाहर्ता 


OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX , 

RAJASTHAN 


Direct Taxes, Ministry ot Finance, Department ot 
Revenue & Insurance, Government of India , New 
Delhi, I , the undersigned , hereby publish tho names 
and other particulars of the assessees who during the 
financial year 1971 - 72 have been essensed on a total 
income of Rs, 1 lac or more ( in cases of Individuals 
and Hindu Undivided Families ) and on an income of 
Rs . 10 lacs or more (in the cases of Firms, Association 


Jaipur, the 31st July 1972 
S . O . 3136 , - In exercise of powers delegated by the 
Central Government under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
287 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 ( 43 of 1961) and 
under the authority given by the Central Board of 


been considered necessary in pubậc interest . 


4426 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29 ,. 1894 


[PART II -- - 


NAMES OF INDIVIDUALS , AND HINDU UNDIVIDED FAMILIES ASSESSED OVER Rs. 1,00,00 /- DURING 

THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1971 - 72 . 


s . 


Nameand complote address of the asses9cc 


Status 


Income assessed 


Asstt . 

ycar 


Remarks 


No. 


Indi. 


1 ShriMinnualalSutane , Prop . Hazarimal Milapchand, Gopalji - ke 
Rusta, Jaipur . . 

Do. 

Do . 
4 Shri Bhagwiqlal Mudi, plo . M /s. Jhalani Trading Co ., Jaipur 
$ Shri Harish Chand Badar, plo Cosmopolitan Trading Co., J.B . Jaj . 
pur . . . . . 

Do. 


68 - 69 
69 - 70 
67 - 68 
69 - 70 


11,31,010 
4 ,23, 603 
3 ,79, 313 / 
3, 13 ,081/ 


Du , 


68 - 69 
69 - 70 
67- 68 
62 -63 
60 - 61 
70 -71 
69 - 70 


2, 72 ,703/ 
1 ,60 , 463 / 
4 . 49 , 190 / 
2 ,34,083 / 
1, 28 ,662 / 
1,02 ,882/ 
1,03, 560 / 


68 -69 
69 - 70 
69 - 70 
69 - 70 
69 -70 
69 -70 
68 -69 
67- 68 
67 -68 

67 - 68 
67-68 
67 -68 
68 -69 
68 -69 
68 -69 


1,01,023 / 
1, 37 ,063 / 
1,71, 296 / 
1,65, 808 / 
1, 36 , 508 ) 
1, 80 , 550 / 

1 ,4 , 540 / 
1,22,812 / 
1, 13 ,662/ 
1, 49 ,5000 / 
1 , 56 , 996 / 
2 , 17,050 / 
1, 36 , 402 / 
1 , 36 ,703 / 
1 , 35 , 536/ 


69 - 70 


1,08 ,250 / 


Do. 
IO Shri Pademhind Tutuka Subhash Marg , C - achome, Jaipur , . 
II Shri Suail Kunir Dicebhaji, P /O M /s. Shantilal Durlabhji, Jaipur 
12 Shri Bitaldis , plo M / 3. India Plets Migs , Co ., Industrial Estate , 

Jaipur . . . . . . . . . . . 
13 

Do, 
14 Shri Kushalchand , P /o M /s. K . D . Jhaveri, Nathmalka - Chowk , Jaipur 
IS Smt. S . K . Bader , p /o abovc . . . . . . . . , 
16 Shri Gulabchand p /o above . . . . . . . , 
17 Shri Poonamchand Bader , Jaipur 

HUR 
13 M3, Tokuldas Haldas , Lalkatla , Jalpur . . . . . Indl. 
19 Shri Dilichand , p / o Heeralal Chhaganlal, J. B ., Jaipur . . 
20 Shri Raj Roop Tank, p / o above , , , , , , , » 
21 Smat Kanchand Bai, p /o M /s . Cosmopolitan Trading Co. . 
22 Smt, Chakka Bai, plo above . . . . , , 

, 
23 Shri Sagarmal Daga, p / 0 M /s . Sagarmal Daga & Co., Jaipur 
24 ShriWazir Mohd . p /o senco Ghat Gite , Jaipur . . Indl. 
25 Shri Zahoor Mohd . p / o above . . . . 

. . , 
26 Shri Bazir Mohd . p / o above . . . . . . . 
27 Shri Hamiddum through his representative Shri Nazir Ahmed , Fatch 

pur . . . . . . 
28 Shri Tayyabali, through his respresentative Shri Nazir Ahmed , Farch 

pur . 
29 Shri Vallabhadas Khundelwal, Ghaura Rasta , Jaipur 
30 Shri Utamchand Jain , 664 , Adarsh Nagar , Jaipur 
31 Shri Bhawani Singh ,Raj Mahal, Jaipu 
32 Shri Prithvira ), Raj Mahal, Jaipur , , , 
33 Shri Brijmohan , plo M /s. Ramsingh Garg, Almer 
34 Shri Ramshingh Garg , plo above . . . . 
35 Smt, Glewari Bai Minsinghka Bhilwara . 
36 Shri Dalchand p / o Todji Paharmal Gangapur 
37 Shri Mingilal, D / o above 
38 Shri falsingh (deceased ) through 1/h Shri Ajai Singh Shahpura , 
39 Shri Bhim Singhji of Kota . . . . . . 
40 Shri Midhusudan M . Parockh , Ramganjmandi 
41 Shri Bhim Singhji of Kota 
42 Smt, Gulab Sundari Bai , Rapana , Kota 
43 Shri Baluram P /o M / s. Medira . . . . . . HUF 
44 Shri R . N . Bangur , Didwana . . . . 

. . Indl. 
45 

D . . 
46 Shri P . D . Bangur, Didwang . 

Do. 
48 Paragram Kanali, Sardarpura, Jodhpur . . . . 

Do . 


69 -70 
69- 70 
65-66 
69- 70 
69 - 70 
67- 68 
67 - 68 
67-68 
67 -68 
67- 68 
69 - 70 
70 - 71 
68 -69 
68 -69 
68- 69 
67 -68 
71 - 72 
67 -68 

71 - 72 
67- 68 
68 -69 
69 - 70 


1 ,08 , 250 / 
2 , 22 ,800 / 
1, 02 , 200 / 
1, 84 .954 ) 
2 ,07,488 / 
1,01, 580 / 
1, 24 ,010 / 
1, 11,662 / 
1 ,00 ,237 / 
1 , 00 , 275 / 
2, 12 ,370 / 
2 , 49,800 / 
1 ,06 ,550 / 
1,62 ,,500 / 
1, 21 ,0501 
1.,02 , 460 / 
2, 20 , 982 ) 
2 ,02 , 773 / 
2 ,04 , 964/ 
1 , 96 , 190 / 
1 , 60 , 280 / 
1 , 35 ,3801 


47 


49 


SEC. 3(1 ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4427 
- ----- - ... .. . - - . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


NAME OF FIRMS, COMPANIES AND ASSOCIATION OF PERSONS ASSESSED OVER Rs. 10 ,00 ,000 /- DURING THE 

FINANCIAL YEAR 1971- 72 . 


- - 


- । - - - - - 


s . 
No . 


Name and complete address of the assessees. 


Status 


Income assessed 


Remarks 


Aggtt . 

year 


70 - 71 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. Co. 
. Co. 


70 - 71 


I 
3 
3 
4 
5 


M/s. Rajasthan Small Industrics Corporation, Jaipur 
Rajasthan State Warehousing Corporation , Jaipur . 
M/s. Sambhar Salts Ltd ., Jaipur . . . . 
M /s. Gangananagar Sugar Mills, Jaipur . . 
Maharaja Shri Umaid Mills Ltd., Pali . . . 


69 - 70 
69 - 70 


12, 29, 369/ 
17, 21 ,140/ 
15,14 ,509 / 
18, 21,723/ 
56 , 32 ,0 ( CI 


. 


. 

. 


. 

. 


Co. 
Co . 


71 - 72 


[ No . A - 2 / Publica/ 72- 73/ 2204 ] 

V . S . DESIKACHARI , 
Commissionor of Income Tax 

Rajasthan , Jaipur 


प्रायकर आयुक्त कार्यालय , राजस्थान , जयपूर 


कर 


31 जुलाई, 1972 


प्रादेश 


विभाग, भारत सरकार, नई दिल्ली द्वारा दी गई प्रधारिकता के 
अधीन, में अधोहस्ताक्षरों एतद्वारा उन व्यक्तियों के नाम 
तथा अन्य विवरणों को प्रकाशित करता है , जिनका वित्तीय वर्ष 
1971- 72 के दौरान ( व्यक्तियों और हि०म०कु०के मामलों में ) 1 
लाख रू० या इससे अधिक की कुल प्राय पर औरफर्मों, व्यक्ति संगम 
तथा कम्पनियों के मामलों में ) 10 लाख रु० या इससे अधिक की प्राय 
पर निर्धारण हुआ है, जिनका प्रकाशन लोक हित में प्रावश्यक समझा 
गया है । 


एस० प्रो० 3 136. – प्रायकर अधिनियम 1961 
( 1961 का 43 ) की धारा 287 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के अधीन 
केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा प्रदत शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए 
और केन्द्रीय प्रत्यक्ष कर बोर्ड, वित्त मंत्रालय , राजस्व और बीमा 


4428 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II 


- 


अनुबन्ध 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


. ०सं० 


करदाना 


प्रस्थिति निर्धारण वर्ष निर्धारित प्राय ( रू० ) 


- 


- . 


- 


- 


- 


1 श्री मन्नालाल मुराना, मालिक हजारीमल मिलापचन्द गोपालजी का रास्ता,जयपुर । व्यष्टि 


11 , 31 , 010 


68 - 69 
69 - 70 
67 - 68 


69 - 70 


4 श्री भगवान नान मोदी , भागीदार मैसर्स झालानीट्रेडिंग कं० जयपुर । 
5 श्री ख्रिश्चन्द वेदर , मागोदार कोस्मोपोलिटन ट्रेडिंग कं० जौहरी बाजार, जयपुर । 


68 - 69 


69 - 70 


4 , 23, 605 
5 , 79 , 513 
3, 13, 081 
2, 72, 703 
1, 60 , 462 
4, 49,190 
2, 34,083 
1,28,682 
1, 02, 882 


67 - 68 
62 - 63 
60 - 61 
70 - 71 


69 - 70 


1, 05, 560 


1,01,023 
1 , 37, 063 


68 - 69 
69 - 70 
69 - 70 
69 - 70 
69 - 70 


1, 71, 296 


1 , 65, 808 


69 - 70 
68 - 69 
67 - 68 
67 - 68 


10 श्री पदम चन्द मुका सुभाषमार्ग , सी- स्कीम , जयपुर । 
11 श्री सुनील कुमार दुर्लभ जी , भागीदार मैसर्स शान्ती लाल दुर्लभ जीजौहरी बाजार , 

जयपुर । 
12 श्री विठल दास भागीदार, मैसर्स इन्डिया फैटट्स में नयुफक्चरिंग कं०, इन्डस्ट्रीयल 

इस्टेट , जयपुर । 
13 
14 श्री माल वन्द भागीदार मैसर्स के० डी० सवेरी, नथमल का चौक, जयपुर । 
15 श्री एस० के० बेदर, भागीदार उपरोक्त 
16 श्री गुलाबचन्द , भागीदार , उपरोक्त 
17 श्री पूनमचन्द बेदेर , बी० एन० जयपुर । 

हि०म०कु० 
18 मैपर्न गोकून दास हरिदास लाल कटला , जयपूर । 

यष्टि 
19 श्री मोरन्द भागोदार, हीरालाल छगनलाल , जौहरी बाजार, जयपुर । 
20 श्री राजरूप टांक , भागीदार 
21 श्रीमति कं वन बाई भागीदार ,मैसर्स कौस्मोपोलिटन ट्रेडिंग कम्पनी, जयपुर 
22 श्रीमति छक्का बाई, भागीदार 
23 श्री मागरमल डागा, भागीदार मसर्स सागरमल डागा एण्ड कम्पनी, जयपुर । 
24 श्री वजीर मोहम्मद भागीदार जैमको, घाट ग्रेट, जयपुर 
25 श्री जहर मोहम्मद , भागीदार उपरोक्त 
28 श्री जोर मोरमद भागोदार, उपरोक्त 
27 श्रोमोदुम द्वारा प्रतिनिधि श्री नजीर अहमद, फतेहपुर 
28 श्री तरपूब अली द्वारा नजीर अहमद, फतेहपुर 
29 श्री बल्लभदाम खण्डेलवाल चौरा रास्ता, जयपुर 
30 श्री उत्तम चन्द जैन, 864 प्रादर्श नगर, जयपुर 
31 श्री भवानी सिंह , राजमहल जयपुर 
32 श्री पचोराज, राजमहल , जयपुर 
33 श्रीवनमोहन भागोदार , मैनर्स रामसिंह गर्ग, अजमेर 


67 -68 
67 - 68 
67 - 68 
68 - 60 
68 - 69 
68 - 69 
69 - 70 
69 - 70 
69 - 70 
65 - 66 
69 - 70 
69 - 70 


1, 36, 508 
1, 80, 550 
1, 44 ,540 
1, 22, 812 
1, 13, 682 
1, 49, 500 
1, 56,996 
2 , 17, 050 
1, 38, 402 
1, 36,703 
1, 35, 536 
1 ,08, 250 
1,08, 250 
2, 22,800 
1, 02, 200 
1 , 84, 954 
2, 07, 488 


67 - 68 


1 , 01, 580 


SEC . 3 (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29, 1894 


4429 


क्र०सं० 


करदाता 


प्रस्थिति निर्धारण वर्ष निर्धारित प्राय ( रु . ) 


- 


- - - - 


- - - 


67 - 68 


1 , 24, 010 


67 - 68 


1, 11 , 662 


67 - 68 


1 , 00, 257 


67 - 68 


1 , 00 , 257 


69 - 70 


2 ,12, 370 


34 श्री रामसिंह गर्ग , भागीदार उपरोक्त 
35 श्रीमति षेवरी बाई मानसिंहका , भीलवाड़ा 
36 श्री डाल चन्द , भागीदार टोउजी पहाड़मल, गंगापुर 
37 श्री मांगीलाल , भागीदार उपरोक्त 
38 श्री जयसिंह (मृत ) द्वारा श्री अजय सिंह , साहपुरा 
39 श्री भीमसिंह जी, कोटा 
40 श्री मधुसूदन एम० पारीख, रामगंज मंडी 
41 श्री भीम सिंह जी कोटा 
42 श्रीमति गुलाब सुन्दरी बाई , बापना , कोटा 
43 श्री माल राम भागीदार , मैसर्स मदिरा क्रय विक्रय संघ , कोटा 
44 श्री पार० एन० बान्गुर , डीडवाना 


70 - 71 


2 , 49 , 800 


68 - 69 


1, 06,550 


68 - 69 


1 ,62, 500 


68 - 69 


1 , 21 , 050 


T 


67 - 68 


1 , 02, 480 


71 - 72 


2, 20 , 982 


67 - 68 


2, 02, 773 


46 श्री पी० डी० बांगुर, डीडवाना 


71 - 72 


2 ,04, 964 


67 - 68 


1 , 96, 190 


48 श्री परसाराम कानाजी , सरदार पुरा, जोधपुर 


68 - 69 


1, 60 , 280 


49 


69 - 70 


1 ,55 , 380 


कमी, भक्त पंगम और कम्पनियों के नाम जो वित्तीय वर्ष 1971 - 72 के दौरान 10, 00 ,00000 से अधिक पर निर्धारित हुए । 


क० सं० निर्धारिती का नाम व पता 


प्रस्थिति निर्धारण वर्ष निर्धारिती प्राय 


. . - - - - - - -- 


कम्पनी 


70 - 71 


12, 29, 369 


70 - 71 


17 , 21, 140 


1 पंसर्स राजस्थान स्माल इन्डस्ट्रीज कारपोरेशन , जयपुर 
2 राजस्थान स्टेट वेयर हाउसिंग कारपोरेशन , जयपुर 
3 मै ससं सांभर साल्ट लि०, जयपुर 
4 मैसर्स गंगानगर सुगर मिल्स , जयपुर 


69 --70 


15 ,14, 509 


69 - 70 


18, 21, 723 


5 महाराजा श्री उम्मेदमिल्म , लिमिटेड , पाली 


71 - 72 


56, 32, 066 


+ 


- 


- - 


[सं० ए/1/ विविध/ स्टेट / 72 - 73 ] 
ह० वी० एस० देसिकाचारी, 

प्रायकर आयुक्त , 
राजस्थान , जयपुर । 


4430 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[Part 


- 


Range 


Income- tax Circles & 

Oficers 


Income- tax 


No. 


CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECT TAX 

Now Dolhi, the 12th June, 1972 

INCOME TAX 
S . O . 3137 — In cxercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 122 of the Income- tax Act , 1961 
( 43 of 1961) and of all other powers onabling it in that behalf and 
in supersession of all the previous Notifications in this regard , 
the Central Board of Direct Texts heareby directs that the 
Appellate Assistant Commissioner of Income tax of the ranges 
specified in column ( 2 ) of the Schedule below , shall perform 
their functions in respect of all persons and incomes 288088cd 
to income-tax or guper -tax in the Income-tax Circles by the 
Income- tax Officer specified in the corresponding entry in column 
(3 ) thercof : 

SCHEDULE 


5 


Appellate 

I . All Income-tax Officers of Circle I. 
Assistant 

Circle II , Circle III ,Circle IV : 
Commissioneer , Circle V and Circle VI, Ahmedabad 
Ahmedabad Range other than those mentioned against 
Ahmedabad 

Serial Nos. 2 , 3 & 4 above . 


2 . Mehsana Circle , 
3 , Patna Circle 
4 . Palanpur Circle , 


Range 


No . 


Income-tex Circles & Income-tax 

Officers 


3 


6 Appellate 

I . Circle I , Baroda 
Assistant 2 . Godhra Circle . 
Commissloaer , 3 . Potlad Circle 
A Range 4 . Broach Circle , 
( H . Q ) Baroda 


7 Apellate 

I . Circle II, Baroda , 
Assistant 2 . Nadiad Circle 
Commissionor , 3 . Anand Circle 
B Range 4 . Bulsar Circle 
(H . Q .) 
Baroda . 


f . Surat Circle 
2 . Navsari Cicle . 


Appellate 
Assistent 
Commissioner , 
Surat Range 
( H . Q .) 
Surat , 


9 Appellate 

1. Jamnagar Circle 
Assistant 2 . Bhuj Circle 
Commissioner, 3 . Forhandar Circle . 
Jamnagar Range 
(HQ ) , 
Jamnagar . 


1 Appellate 1. Special Investigation Circle I 
Assistant 

Ahmedabad , 
Commissioner , 2 . Special Investigation Circle II, 
Special Rango, Ahmedabad . 
I, Ahmedabad . 3 . Special Investigation Circle III , 

Ahmedabad 
4 . Special Investigation Circle IV , 

Ahmedabad , 
5. Special Investigation Circle , V , 

Ahmedabad , 
6 . Special Investigation Circle VI , 

Ahmedabad . 
7 . Special Investigation Circle VII, 

Ahmedabad , 
2 Appellate 

Circle I- A ( Spealal), Ahmedabad . 
Assistant 

Circle I - B (Reyen uc ) , Ahmedabad , 
Commissioner, Circle I - C (Special), Ahmedabad , 
Special Rango Circle I- D Revenue) , Ahmedabad . 
II , Ahmedabad , Circle I- E (Companies ), 

Ahmedabad . 
Circle I- F (Special), Ahmedabad . 
Circle I - G (Revenue ), Ahmedabad , 
Circle I - I (Revenue ) , Ahmedabad , 
Circlo I - J (Special), Ahmedabad , 
Circle I- M (Ravenue ), Ahmedabad . 
Circle 1- 0 (Companies), 

Ahmedabad , 
3 Appellate ? I . Circle II - A (Companies ), 
Assistant 

Ahmedabad , 
Commissioner, Circle II - B (Companics ) , Ahmedabad 
Special 

Circle II - C (Special), Ahmedabad .: 
Reage III , 

Circle II - D (Special) , Ahmedabad 
Ahmedabad . Circle II - E (Special) , Ahmedabad , 

Cirice II - F (Revenue) , Ahmedabad , 
Cirico II - G (Revenue), Ahmedabad . 

Circle : II - H Revenue), Ahmedabad . 
2 . Cirice III - A (Companico ), 

Ahmedabad . 
Cirice III- B (Companies ), 
Ahmedabad . 
Circle III- C ( Special), Ahmedabad . 
Circle III - D (Revenue), 
Ahmedabad , 
Circle III - E (Revenue) , 

Ahmedabad . 
4 Appellate 1, Cirlce IV - A ( Companies), 
Assistant 

Ahmedabad , 
Commissioner , Circle IV - B (Special) , Ahmedabad , 
Special Range Circle IV - C (Revenue ) , Ahmedabad . 
Ahmedabad. Circle IV - D (Revenue) , Ahmedabad . 

Clrlce IV - E (Revenue), Ahmedabad , 

Circle IV - F (Revenue) , Ahmedabad , 
2 . Circle V - A ( Special) Ahmedabad . 
2 . Circle V - B (Revenue ) , Ahmedabad . 
3 . Circle VI- D ( Trust ), Ahmedabad . 


10 


Appellate I . Bhavnager Circle 
Assistant 2 . Surendranagar Circle 
Commissioner , 3 . Amreli Circle 
Bhavnagar 
Range (HQ , 
Bhavnagar 


II Appellatc 

Assistant 
Commissioner , 
Rajkot Range 
(HO ) , 
Rajkot. 


1, Rajkot Circle 
2 , Morvi Circle, 
3 . Junagadh Circle , 


All appeals in respect of any asacosce pending immediately 
before the date of this Notification shall, from the date this 
Notification takes effect transferred to and dealt with by 
th : Apellate Assistant Commissioner of the Range who has 
jurisdiction over that Asseges as per this Notification . 


This Notification shall take effect from the 15th Junc, 1972 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29, 1894 


SEC. 3( 1) ] 

- - - - --- - 


4431 


- - - - 


- 


( 1) 


( 2) 


( 3 ) 


Explanatory Note : 
The amendments have become necessary consequent on 
calignment of jurisdrion of Appellate Assistant Commissioner 
in Commissioner s charge . The nomenclature of following 
Ranges have been changed as mentioned below : 


Existing nomenclature 


Changed nomenclature 


Appellate Assistant Commis - Special R11ge- I , Ahmedabad 
sioner , A - Range ( HQ) , 

Ahmedabad . 
Appellate _ Assistant Commis- Special Range II , Ahmedabad 

sioner , B - Range ( HQ) 

Ahmedabad 
Appellate Assistant Commis - Specil Range - III , Ahmedaba 

sioner , C - Range ( HQ ) , 

Ahmedabad 
Appellate Assistant Commis - Specaal range IV , Ahmedabad 
sioner , D - Range, ( HQ ) 

Ahmedabad . 
Appellate Assistant Commis- Ahmedabad Range , 
sloner , E - Range (HQ ) 
Ahmedabad . 


3. विशेष अन्वेषण सकिलji, 

अहमदबाद । 
4. विशेष अन्वेषण सकिल iv , 

अहमदाबाद । 
5 . विशेष अन्वेषण सकिल v , 

अहमदाबाद 
6. विशेष अन्वेषण सकिल vi , 

अहमदाबाद । 
7 . विशेष अन्वेषण Viil 

महमदाबाद । 


2 सहायक आयुक्त 

( अपील ) , 
विशेष रेंज il 
प्रहमदाबाद । 


( The above Nite does not form apart of the Notification 
it is intnded to be merely clarificatory) . 

[ No. 109 ( F. No. 261 / 4/ 72 - ITJ] 


P . K . S HARAN, 

Under Secy . 
केन्द्रीय प्रत्यक्ष कर बोर्ड 

मायकर 

नई दिल्ली, 12 जून , 1972 
एस०प्रो0 31 37- आयकर अधिनियम , 1961 ( 1961 का 43 ) की 
धारा 122 की उपधारा ( 1) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का और उस निमित्त 
उसे समर्थ बनाने वाली सभी अन्य शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए 
और इस संबंध में सभी पर्व अधिसूचनाओं को प्रतिष्ठित करते हुए , 
केन्द्रीय प्रत्यक्ष कर बोर्ड एतद्वारा निदेश देता है कि नीचे को अनु 
सूची के स्तम्भ ( 2 ) में विनिर्दिष्ट रेंजों के सहायक आयकर पायुक्त 
( अपील ) , उसके स्तम्भ ( 3 ) में की तत्स्थानी प्रविष्टि में निर्दिष्ट 
मायकर अधिकारियों द्वारा आयकर सकिलों में प्रायकर या अधि 
कर के लिए निर्धारित सभी व्यक्तियों और पार्यो के बारे में अपने 
कृत्यों का पालन करेंगे : - - 

अनुसूची 


सकिल 1 - 2 (विशेष ), अहमदा 

बाद । 
मफिल 1 - ख ( राजस्व ), 

महमदाबाद । 
सकिल 1 --- (विशेष , अहमदा 

बाद । 
सकिल 1 - 4 ( राजस्व ), अहमदा 

बाद । 
सर्किल 1 - ~- ( कम्पनी ), अहमवा 

बाद । 
सकिल 1 -- (विशेष ) , अहमदा 

बाद । 
सकिल 1 - छ ( राजस्व ) 

अहमदबाद । 
सफिल 1 - ( राजस्व ) , 

महमदाबाद । 
सकिल 1 - 3 (विशेष ) , 

अहमदाबाद । 
सकिल 1 -1 ( राजस्व ), 

अहमदाबाद । 
सफिल 1 - ण ( कम्पनी ) , 

अहमदाबाद । 


क्रम 


प्रायकर सकिल और प्रायकर 

अधिकारी 


3 सहायक प्रायुक्त 

( अपील ) , 
विशेष रेंज ii, 
प्रहमदाबाद । 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


1. सकिल ॥ -क ( कम्पनी ) , 

अहमदाबाद । 
सफिल i- ख ( कम्पनी ), 
अहमदाबाद । 
सकिल ii - ग (विशेष ), 
अहमदाबाद । 
सकिल - ख (विशेष ), 
अहमदाबाद । 
सकिल i - 3 (विशेष ), 
अहमदाबाद । 


1 सहायक आयुक्त 

( अपील ), 
विशेष रेंज , । 
अहमदाबाद । 


1. विशेष अन्वेषण सकिल 1, 

अहमदबाद 
2. विशेष अन्वेषण सकिल i , 

अहमदाबाद । 


- -- - - 


-- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


4432 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


( PART 11 -- 


4432 

( 1 ) 


- 


- 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


6. सहायक आयुक्त । 


1. सकिल 1, बड़ोदा । 


( अपील ) , 2. गोधरा सकिल । 
क रेंज (मुख्यालय ) प्र 
बड़ौवा । 


सर्किल ii - च ( राजस्व ) , 
अहमदाबाद । 
सकिल ii - छ ( राजस्व ), 
अहमदाबाद । 
सकिल i - ज ( राजस्व ) , 

प्रहमाबाद । 
2. सकिल iii - क ( कम्पनी ) , 

प्रहमाबाद । 
सकिल ! ii - ख ( कम्पनी ), 
अहमदाबाद । 
सफिल iii - ग (विशेष ), 
अहमदाबाद । 
सफिल iji - ख ( राजस्व ) , 
अहमदाबाद । 
सकिल iii- ( राजस्व ), 
अहमदाबाद । 


7 सहायक प्रायुक्त ( अपील ) , 1. सकिल ii, बड़ौदा । 

ख रेंज ( मुख्यालय ) , 2. नदियाड सकिल । 
बड़ीडा । 

3. मान्नद सकिल । 
4. बुलसर सफिल । 


सहायक आयुक्त ( अपील ) 
सूरत रेंज ( मुख्यालय ), 


1. सूरत सकिल । 
2. नवसारी सर्किल । 


सूरत । 


4 सहायक आयुक्त 

अपील ), 
विशेष रेंज iv , 
अहमदाबाद । 


1. सर्किल iv - क ( कम्पनी ) , 

अहमदाबाद । 
सकिल iv - ख (विशे ) 
अहमदाबाद । 


9 सहायक आयुक्त ( अपील ) , 1. जामनगर सकिल ; 

जामनगर रेंज ( मुख्यालय ) , 2. भुज सकिल । 
जामनगर । 

3. पोरबन्दर सकिल । 


10 सहायक प्रायुण्त ( अपील ), 1. भावनगर सर्किल । 

भावनगर रेंज ( मुख्यालय ), 2. सुरेन्द्र नगर सकिल । 
भावनगर । 

3. अमरेली सकिल । 


अहमदाबाद 
सकिल iv – घ ( राजस्व ) , 
महमदाबाद । 
फिल - ( राजस्व ) , 
महमाबाद । 
सफिल iv - घ ( राजस्व ) , 

महमाबाद । 
2. सकिल -क (विशेष ) , 
__ अहमदाबाद । 
2. सकिल v - ख ( राजस्व ) , 

अहमदाबाद । 
3. सकिल vi - ( न्यास ) , 

अहमदाबाद । 


11 सहायक आयुक्त ( अपील ) , 1. राजकोट सकिल । 

राजकोट रेंज ( मुख्यालय ) 2. मोरवी सकिल । 
राजकोट । 

3. जूनागढ़ सकिल । 


इस अधिसूचना की तारीख से ठीक पूर्व किसी निर्धारिती की 
बाबत लम्बित सभी अपीलें , इस अधिसूचना के प्रभावी होने की 
तारीख से उस सहायक आयुक्त ( अपील ) को , जिसकी , इस 
अधिसूचना के अनुसार उस निर्धारिती पर प्रिधकारिता है, अन्त 
रित कर दी जायेंगी , जो उनके संबंध में कार्यवाही करेगा । 


5 सहायक प्रायुक्त 

( अपील ) , 
महमदाबाद रेंज । 
अहमदाबाद । 


1. ऊपर क्रम सं० 2 , 3 और 

4 के सामने वणित से भिन्न 
सकिल , सकिल ii , सर्किल , 
iii, सफिल iv , सकिल V और 
सकिल Vi अहमदाबाद के 
सभी प्रायकर अधिकारी । 
2. मेहसाना सकिल । 
3. पाटन सकिल । 
4. पालनपुर सर्किल 


यह अधिसूचना 15 जून , 1972 से प्रभावी होगी । 
[ सं० 100 ( फा० सं० 26 1/ 4/ 72-प्राई टी जे ] 

पी० के० शरण , 
प्रवर सचिव , केन्द्रीय प्रत्यक्ष कर बोर्ड । 


Sec . 3 (1 ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 20 , 1894 


4433 


(1) 


(2) 


(3) 


9 Special 


Range -VII, Gompanies Circle - II ( I), II (2 ) 
Bombay . 11(3 ), 11 (4 ) & IT (S) ITO 

Charges only . 


S . O . 3138 — In exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 122 of the Income- tax Act , 1961 
( 43 of 1961) agd of all other powers enabling it in that behalf 
and in supergcssion of all previous Notifications in this regarii , 
the Central Board of Direct Taxes , hereby directs that the 
Appellate Agsistant Commissioners of Income- tax of the 
Ranges specified in column 2 of the Schedule below shall 
perform their functions in rcgpect of all persons and incomcs 
angchged to Income Tax Super Tax in the Income- tax Circles 
Wards and Districte , specified in the coriessponding entry in , 
column 3 thereof - 


10 Special 

Bombay . 


Range- VIII, I . Companies Circle - II except 

18t to 5th ITO : Charges . . 
2 . Igt, 2nd , 3rd , 4th , 5th & 

6th ITOs Charges of API 

Ward . 
3 . 18 , 3rd , 5th & 8th ITOs 

charges of C - I Ward , Bombay 


SCHEDULE 


II Special 


Range- IX , 
Bombay 


Range 
( propaed ) 


Income- tax Ward / Cir . 

& Districts . 


I. Tot, 2nd , 3rd , 4th , 5th , 

6th , 7th and 8th ITOs 

Charges of C - II Ward . 
2 . 18t, 2nd , 3rd , 4th & sth 

ITO . Charges of A - III 
Ward . 


3 


12 Special 


Range - X , 
Bombay 


I. X -Ward . 
2 . Ist, 2nd, 3rd , 4th , 6th and 

Toth ITOs Charges of A - V 
Ward . 


13 


C -Range , Bombay 


I Special Rangc - I, Companies Circle I ( I ), 1 ( 2 ), 
Bombay 

I (3 ) & I( 4 ) ITOs Charges 

only . 
2 Special Range- II , 1. Companies Circle- I except 
Bombay 

1 ( 1), ( 2 ), I (3) and I(4 ) 

2 . ist I. T . O ., of B . R . C . 
3 Special Range - III, I. A fat, 2nd , 3rd , & 8th ITO , 
Bombay 

of A - IY Ward . 

2 . I. T .Os of Film Circle. 
4 A - Range , Bombay , I. Bombay Circle 

2 . N . R . R . C . 

Salaries Branch II 
4 . Forcign Section . 

ItOs of S . I. B . I. to V . 
6 . Salarics Branch - I. 
7 . B .R . C . except Ist IT . O . 
8 . A - IV Ward except. 18t 

2nd 3rd , and 8th I. T .Os 

Charges . 
5 Special Range- Iy , Companics Circle - Iy ( 1) , V (zi, 
Bombay 

IV (3 ), IV (4 ), IV ( 5), IV (6 ) & 
IV G I. T .Os Charges 
only . 


1. Evacuee Circle - I. 
2 . A - I Ward except 1st to 

6th ITOS Charges 
3 . C - I Word except ist, 3rd 

5th , & 8th ITO . . Chargce . 
4 . C - II Wards except ist to , 

8th ITOs Charges . 
5 . A - III Ward except ist 

to sth ITO Charge8 . 
6 . A - V Ward except 1st, to 

2nd , 3rd , 4th , 6th and 
Ioth ITOs Charges . 


14 


Special Range -XI , 1. 18t, 2nd , 3rd , & 4th , 
Bombay 

9th ITO Charges of B . S . D . 

(West ). 
2 . 18t, 2nd , 8th and 9th 

ITOB Charges of G - A 
Ward . 


15 


Special Range- XII, 

Bombay 


1. 18t , 2nd, 3rd , 6th and 10th 
ITOS Charges of B . S . D . 

(East.) 
2 . Ist, 2nd , 3rd , 4th , sth , 

6th , 7th , 8th and 9th ITO : 
Charges of E - Ward . 


6 Special Rango - V , 

Bombay . 


1. Companies Circle IV except 

18t to 7th I. T . Os Charges . 
2 . ITOs of Companies Circle - V 
3 . 18t, 2nd , & 3rd ITOs of 

B - I Ward . 


7 Special Range - - VI , 

Bombay 


16 Special Range - XIV , I. Companics Circle - III except 
Bombay Ist to 7th ITO ! Charges . 

2 . Ist, 2nd, 3rd , 4th , 5th , 
6th 16th and 17th ITOS 

Chargcs cf B - III Wand . 
17 Special Range - XIII , Companies Circle - III ( 1 ) TII( 2 ) 
Bombay 

III(3 ), III(4 ), III (S), III (6 ) , 
& IIIG ITO Charges 


I . 18t, 2nd , 3rd , 4th , & 5th 

ITOS of Market Ward . 
2 . 18 , 2018 3rd, & 4th ITO : of 

C - III Ward . 
3 . 1st , 2nd , 3rd & 4th ITOS 

of B - II Ward . 
4 . 1st, 2nd , 3rd , 4th and sth 

ITOS of A -II Ward . 
I , Evacuce Circle — II. 


18 


D - Range , Bombay , 


L - III War 1 except 18t, 2nd , 

3rd 4th , 5th , 6th , 16th 
and 17th ITO : Charges. 


8 B -Range, Bombay , 


19 Special Range- XV , I, I. T .Os of Hindi Circle. 
Bombay 

2 . Ist, 2nd and 3rd ITO : 

of G -Ward . 


3rd ITO , Charges. 
3 . Market Ward except ist 

to 5th ITO : Charges . 
4 . A - II Ward except ist to 

sth ITOs Charges . 
5 . B - II Ward except 1st to 

4th ITO ! Charges . 
6 . C - III Ward except 1st 

to 4th ITOB Charges . 


20 Special Range- VXI, I. 18t, 2nd , & 3rd , ITOs of 
Bombay 

C - IT Ward . 
2 . Ist, 2nd, 3rd , 17th , 18th 

19th and 20th ITO : of 
D - ] Ward . 


4434 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II -- 


___ I 


जिलों में आयकर या अधिकर के लिये निर्धारित सभी व्यक्तियों 
और पायके बारे में अपने कृत्यों का पालन करेंगे : 


क्रम सं० 


रेंज (प्रस्थापित ) 


आयकर वार्ड / सफिल 

और जिले 


21 . 


E- Range , Bombay . 


3 


1 . विशेष रेंज - I, बम्बई 


3 . 18t , 2nd, 9th , 14th and 

15th ITO : Charges of 

C - V Ward . 
4 . Ist , 2nd, 3rd , ath, sth 
and Toth ITO Charges of 

C -IV Ward. 
I . E - Ward except Ist to 9th 

ITOS Charges . 
2 . G - Ward except Ist to 3rd 
___ ITOs Charges . 
3 . GA - Ward except 191, 
2nd, 8th and 9th ITOR 

Charges . 
4 . B . S . D . (West) exccpt 18t, 

2nd , 3rd, 4th & 9th ITOS 

Chargea. 
5. B. S . D . ( East ) except rat , 
- 2nd, 3rd, 6th and Toth 

ITO . - Charges . 
I . D - I Ward cxcept Ist, 2nd, 

3rd , I7th , I8th , I9th end 

2oth ITOS Charges . 
2. D - II Ward except Ist , 
__ 2nd and 3rd ITOS Charges . 
3 . C -IV Ward except Ist , 

2nd , 3rd, 4th 5th and 
___ Toth ITOB Charges . 
4 . C - V Ward except 18t , 

2nd, 9th 14th and I5th 
ITOS Charges . 


केवल आई० टी० प्रो . 
के प्रभाराधीन कम्पनी 
सफिल 1 ( 1 ), 1 ( 2), 
1 ( 3 ) और 1 ( 4 ) । 
1. 1 ( 1), 1 ( 2), 1 ( 3 ) 

और 1 ( 4 ) को छोड़कर 


22. 


F - Range , 


Bombay . 


2 . विशेष रेंज - II; बम्बई 


2. बी . पार० सी० का 
1 आई०टी० ओ० । 


3. विशेष रेंज - III , बम्बई । 1. क - IV .वार्ड के 1, 2, 

3, और 8 आई० टी० 
प्रो० । 
2 . फिल्म सकिल के आई० 
टी० मो० 


4. " क - रेंज , बम्बई 


thereof Stands transferred by this Notification from one Range 
to another Range , appeals arising out of assessments made in 
that Income-tax Circle , Ward or District or part thereof an 
pending immediately before the date of this Notification before 
the Appellate Assistant Commissioner of Range from whom 
that [ 15 n -.: . " :. :, Wari or District or part thereof is 
Cranferret shall from the date this Notification shall take 
effect be transferred to and dealth with by the Appellate 
Assistant Commissioner of the Range to whom the said Circle , 
Ward or District or part there of is transferred , 

This Notification shall take effect from I - 7 -1972 . 


1 . बम्बई सकिल । 
2. एन० मार० आर० 

सी . । 
3. वेतनशाखा - II 
4. विदेश अनुभाग । 
5 . एस० आई० बी० I से 

Vके माई० टी० मो० । 
6 . वेतन शाखा - I 
7. 1 पाई०टी० पो० को 
छोड़कर बी० पार० सी० । 
8. आई . टी . प्रो० के 
प्रभागधीन 1, 2, 3, 

और 8 को छोड़कर 
क - IV वार्ड । 


INo. I23 ( F. No 261/ 9/ 72 -IT ]] 
Explanatory Note . 

This notification has become necessary consequent 
on realignment of jurisdiction of A . A . Cs. in commis 
sioner s charge and transfer of one post of A . A . C . from 
Ahmedabad to Bombay City Charges. 

( The above note does not form a part of Notification 
but is intended to be clarificatory ) . 


नई दिल्ली , 26 जन , 1972 


5 . विशेष रेंज -IV , बम्बई 


एस . मो0 3138 . - आयकर अधिनियम , 1961 
( 1961 का 43 ) की धारा 122 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा 
प्रवत्त शक्तियों और उस निमित्त उसे समर्थ बनाने वाली 
सभी अन्य शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हये और इस सम्बन्ध में सभी 
पूर्व अधिसूचनाओं को प्रतिष्ठित करते हुये , केन्द्रीय प्रत्यक्ष कर बोर्ड 
एतद्वारा निदेश देता है कि नीचे की अनुसूची के स्तम्भ 2 में 
विनिर्दिष्ट सहायक आयकर आयुक्त ( अपील ) , उसके सतम्भ 3 
में की तस्स्थानी प्रविष्टि में विनिर्दिष्ट प्रायकर सकिलों , वागें और 


केवल आई० टी० ओ० के 
प्रभाराधीन कम्पनी सकिल 
- IV ( 1 ), IV ( 2 ) , 
IV ( 3), IV ( 4) , IV 
( 5 ) IV ( 6 ) और IV 
( 7 ) । 


SEC . 3 (ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 


4435 


2 


3 


10. विशेषरेंज - VIII बम्बई 


6. विशेष रेंज -- V बम्बई 


11 . विशेष रंज - I 


बम्बई । 


7 . विशेष रेंज -- VI, बम्बई 


आई० टी० ओ० के 
प्रभाराधीन 1 से 7 को 
छोड़कर कम्पनी मकिल 
IV । 
2. कम्पनी सकिल - V के 

आई० टी० ओ० । 
3. ख - वार्ड के 1, 2, 3 

आई० टी० प्रो० । 
4. क - II वार्ड के 1, 2, 

3, 4 और 5 आई० 
टी० प्रो० । 
1. बाजार यार्ड के 1, 

2, 3, 4 और 5 आई० 
टी० प्रो० । 
2. ग - III वार्ड के 1 , 2, 

3 और 4 आई० टी० 
प्रो० । 
3. ख - II वार्ड के 1, 2, 
• 3 और 4 आई० टो० 

प्रो० । 
4. क - II वार्ड के 1, 2, 

3 4 और 5 आई० 
टी० श्रो० । 


12 . विशेष रेंज - बम्बई । 


13. ग -रेंज , बम्बई । 


1. आई० टी० ओ० के 
प्रभाराधीन 1 से 5 को 
छोड़कर कम्पनी सकिल 
III 
2. क - 1 वार्ड के आई . टी . 
मो० के प्रभाराधीन 1, 

2, 3, 4, 5 और 6 । 
3 . ग - वार्ड, बम्बई के आई० 

टी० ओ० के प्रभाराधीन 
___ 1, 3, 5 और 8 । 
1 . ग - II वार्ड के प्राई . 
टी . प्रो . के प्रभाराधीन 
1, 2,3, 4, 5,6 , 7 और 81 
2 . क - III वार्ड के प्राई० 
टी० मो० के प्रभाराधीन 
1, 2, 3, 4 और 5 । 
1 . x - वार्ड । 
3. क - V वार्ड के प्राई . 
टी० ओ० के प्रभाराधीन 
1, 2, 3, 4, 6 और 10 । 
1 . निष्कांत सकिल - I 
2 . आई०टी० ओ० के 
प्रभाराधीन 1 से 6 को 
छोडकर क - I लाई । 
उपआई०टी० प्रो० के 
प्रभाराधीन 1, 3, 5 और 8 
को छोडकर ग - I वार्ड । 
4 . आई . टी० मो० के 
प्रभाराधीन से 8 को छोडकर 
ग - II वार्ड । 
5 . आई० टी० ओ० के 
प्रभाराधीन 1 से 5 को छोड 
फर क -III वार्ड । 
6. आई० टी० ओ० के 
प्रभाराधीन 1 , 2 , 3, 4 
6 और 10 को छोड़कर, 
क - V वार्ड । 
1. बी० एस० डी० ( पश्चिम ) 

के आई० टी० प्रो० के 
प्रमाराधीन बी० एस० 
डी० 
2. छफ - वार्ड के प्राई०टी० 
प्रो० के प्रभाराधीन 1 
2, 8 और 91 


8. ख -रेंज , बम्बई 


1. निष्क्रांत सकिल - II 
2. आई० टी० पी० के 
प्रभाराधीन 1 से 3 को 
छोड़कर ख -- 1 वार्ड । । 
3. प्राई० टी० ओ० के 
प्रभाराधीन 1 से 5 

को छोड़कर बाजार वार्ड । 
4. प्राई० टी० प्रो० के 
प्रभाराधीन 1 से 5 को 
छोड़कर क - IIवाई । 
5. आई० टो० पी० के 
प्रभाराधीन 1 से 4 को 
छोड़कर ख - II वार्ड । 
6. आई० टी० प्रो० के 
प्रभाराधीन 1 से 4 को 
छोड़कर ग - - III वार्ड । 


14. विशेष रेंज - XI बम्बई 


9. विशेष रेंज - VII , बम्८ ई 


केवल पाई० टी० पी० के 
प्रभाराधीन कम्पनी सर्किल 

- II ( 1 ), II ( 2 ) , 
II ( 3 ) , II ( 4 ) और 
II ( 5 ) । 


4436 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


( PART II 


- 


- 


- 


3 


- - - - 


- - - - 


- 


- 


21. हु. - रेंज - बम्बई 


1. आई० टी० ओ० के 
प्रभाराधीदन 1 से 9 को 
छोड़कर ड० - वार्ड । 
2. आई० टी० मो० के 
प्रमाराधीन 1 से 3 को 
छोड़कर छ - वार्ड । 
3. आई० टी० ओ० के 
प्रभाराधीन 1 , 2, 8 

और 9 को छोड़ कर 
छ क - वार्ड । 
4. आई० टी० ओ० के 

प्रभाराधीन 1 , 2, 3 , 
4 और 9 को छोड़ कर 
बी० एस० डी० ( पश्चिम ) । 


15. विशेष रेंज - XII बम्बई 1. बी० एम० डी० ( पूर्व ) 

के आई० टी० प्रो० के 
प्रभाराधीन 1, 2, 3, 6 

और 10 । 
2. 30 - वार्ड के आई०टी० 
प्रो० के प्रभाराधीन 1, 
2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 , 

और 9 । 
16. विशेष रेंज - XIV बम्बई . 1. आई० टी० ओ० के 

प्रभाराधीन 1 से 7 को 
छोड़कर कम्पनी सफिल - II 
2. व - IIIवाई के आई० 
टी० प्रो० के प्रधाराधीन 1 , 

2 , 3, 4, 5 , 6 , 16 

और 17 । 
17. विशेष रेंज - XIV बम्बई केवल आई० टी० ओ० के 

प्रभाराधीन कम्पनी सकिल 
- III ( 1 ), III ( 2 ) , 
III ( 3) , III ( 4 ), III 
( 4) , III ( 5) , III ( 6 ) 

और III ( 7 ) । 
18. घ -रेंज बम्बई 

आई०टी० ओ० के प्रभारा 
धीन 1 , 2, 3, 4, 5, 
6, 16 और 17 को छोड़ 

कर ख --- III वार्ड । 
19 . विशेप रेंज - XVवम्बई . 1. हुण्डी सकिल के आई० 

टी० ओ० । 
2. छ - वार्ड के 1 , 2 और 
3 आई० टो० श्रो० । 


5. आई० टी० ओ० के 
प्रभाराधीन 1, 2, 3, 
6 और 10 को छोड़कर 
बी० एस० डी० ( पूर्व ) । 


22. च -रेंज - बम्बई 


1. आई . टी . प्रो० के 
प्रभाराधीन 1 , 2, 3, 
17 , 18, 19 और 20 
को छोड़ कर ध - I वार्ड । 
2 . आई० टी० आँ० के 
प्रभाराधीन 1, 2 और 
3 को छोड़करघ - IIवार्ड । 
3. आई . टी० प्रो० के 
प्रभाराधीन 1, 2, 3, 
4, 5 , और 10 को 

छोड़ कर ग -IV वाई । 
4. आई० टी० ओ० के 
प्रभाराधीन 1, 2 , 9 
14 और 15 को छोड़कर 
ग ---- Vवार्ड 


..- 


- 


- 


20. विशेष रेंज -- XIV बम्बई . 1. घ -- - II वार्ड के 1, 2, 

और 3 आई०टी० ओ० । 
2. घ - 1 बाई के 1, 2 , 
3, 17 , 18, 19 और 
20 आई० टो० श्रो० । 
3. ग - V वार्ड के भाई० टी० 
प्रो० के प्रभाराधीन 1 , 
2 , 9, 14 और 15 । 
4. ग - IV वाई के आई० 
टी० ओ० के प्रभाराधीन 
1 , 2 , 3, 1, 5 और 
10 । 

- -- - - - 


__ जहां इस अधिसूचना द्वारा कोई प्रायकर सकिल, वार्ड या 
जिला या उसका कोई भाग एक रेंज से दूसरे रेंज के अन्तरित 
हो गया हो वहां उस आयकर सर्किल , वार्ड या मिले या उसके 
किसी भाग में किये गए निर्धारणों के परिणाम स्वरूप को गई अपील 
जो इस अधिसूचना को तारोन से ठीक पहले उस रेंज के , जिससे 
वह आयकर सकिल, बाई या जिला या उसका कोई भाग अन्तरिन 
गकर दियाया है, सहायक प्रायुक्त ( अपील ) के समक्ष लम्बित 


3 


SEC, 3 ( 1) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVIMA 29 , 1894 

4437 
- - 
थीं , इस अधिसूचना के प्रभावी होने की तारीख से उम रेंज के 
जिसको उक्त सफिल वार्ड या जिला या उसका कोई भाग अन्तरित 
कर दिया गया है, महायक प्रायुक्त ( अपील ) को अन्तरित कर 4 Varanasi Range , 1, Varanasi. 
दी जायेंगी , जो उनके सम्बन्ध में कार्यवाही करेगा । 

Varanasi, 

2 . Special Circle, Varan asi. 

3 . Special Survey Circle , 
TE ufugaal 1- 7 - 1972 Tret Etti 

Varanasi. 

4 . Project Circle , Varanasi. 
[FO 123/4T0 do 261/9 /72 - 9150 to go 

5. Jaunpur. 
6 , Azamgarh . 
7. Ballia . 

8 . Gorakhpur . 
Allahabad Range , 1. Allahabad . 
Allahabad . 

2 . Mirzapur, 
3. Faizabad . 


4 . Salary Circle , Allahabad . 


Nero Delhi , the 301h , June, 1972 


6 


A - Range , Bareilly . , 1, A -Ward , Bareilly , 

2 . B -Ward , Bareilly . 
3 . Haldwani. 
4 . Shahjahanpur, 
5 . Nainital, 


S , 0 . 3139. - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - section ( 1 ) of section 122 of the Income- tax Act , 1961 ( 43 
of 1961) and of all other powers enabling it in that behalf and 
in supersession of all previous notifications in this regard , the 
Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby directs that ihe Appcllate 
Aggistant Commissioners of Income- tax of the Ranes specified 
in column 2 of the schedulc below shall perform their functior 
in respect of all persons and incomes assessed to Income- tax 
or Super - tax in the Income- tax Circles , Wards and Districts 
specified in the corresponding entry in column 3 thereof: 


Y 


B -Rangá , Bareilly . 


. 


1. Barcilly Circle excluding : 
(i) A -Ward , Bareilly , 
( ii ) L - Ward , Barcilly . 
2 . Pilibhit , 
3 . Budaun . 
4 . Almora . 


SI. 
No . 


Ranges 


Income-tax ,Circles , Wards 

and Districts 


1 


IZ 


8 Special Morudabad . 


Special 

Lucknow , 


Range , 


I, A -Ward , Moradabad , 
2. B -Ward , Moradabad . 
3. A -Ward , Najihabad . 
4 . A -Ward , Bulandshahr. 


1, A -Ward , Circlc - I , Lucknow , 
2 . B - Ward , Circle - I , Lucknow . 
3 . C -Ward , Circle - I, Lucknow , 
4 . A -Ward , Circlc - II, Lucknow , 

(which existed upto 31- 5 
1968 and from 1 - 8 - 68 to 

1 - 6 -69 and thereafter ). 
5 . Company Circle , Lucknow . 
6 . Special Circle , Lucknow , 


9 


2 A - Rango , Lucknow 


1. Circle - I , Lucknow exclu 

ding : 
(1) A -Ward , Circle - 1, Lucknow , 
(ii) B - Ward , Circle - I , 

Lucknow . 
(iii ) C -Ward , Circle - I, Lucknow . 
( iv ) F - Ward , Circle - I 

Lucknow . 
2 . Salary Circle , Lucknow . 
3 . Circle - II , Lucknow (which 

existed upto 31 -5 -68 and 
from 1 - 8 - 68 to 1- 6 -69 and 
thereafter ) excluding A 
Ward , 


Moradabad Range , 1 , Moradabad Circle cxclud 
Moradabad , 

ing - 
(1) A - Ward , Moradabud , 
( ii) B - Ward Moradabad . 
2 . Najibabad Circle , exclud 

ing : 
A - Ward , Nijibabaci, 
3 Chendausi. 
4. Rampur. 
5 . Bulandshahr Circle exclde 

ing : 
A -Ward ,š. Bulandshahr. 
6 . Kashipur, 


3 B -Range , Lucknow . 


I. F -Ward , Circle - I, Lucknow . 
2 , Hardoi. 
3 , Bahraich , 
4 . Sitapu . 

Lakhimpur Kheri, 

Başti. 
7 . Gonda . 


Whicro an Income- tax Circlc , Ward or District or 
part thereof stands transferred by this notification from one 
range to another range , appeals arising out of assessment 
made in that Income-tax Circle , Ward or District or part 
thereof and pending immediately before the date of this Noti 
fication before the Appellate Assistant Commissioner of the 


4438 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART I} 


2 


range from whom that Income-tax Circle , Ward or District or 
part thereof is transferred shall, from the date this notification 
takes effect be transferred to and dealt with by the Appellate 
Assistant Commissioner of the range to whom the said circle , 
ward or district or part thereof is transferred , 


This notification shall take effect from 15- 7 - 72 . 
EXPLANATORY NOTE : 

Tho amendments nave becomenecessary with a view to 
rationalising the Jurisdiction of A .A . Cs and their work lead 
distribution. 

[ No . 129( 261/ 1/72- ITJ)] 


5 . कम्पनी सकिल , लख 
नऊ । 
6. विशेष सफिल, लख 
नऊ । 


2. क - रेंज , लखनऊ 


1. सकिल - 1, लखनऊ , 
निम्नलिखित को छोड़कर : --- 
( i ) क -वार्ड , सकिल - , 

लखनऊ । 
( ii ) ख -वार्ड , सकिल- I, 

लखनऊ । 
( iii ) ग - वार्ड , सर्किल 

I, लखनऊ । 
( iv ) च - वार्ड , सकिल 
I, लखनऊ । 


नई दिल्ली 30 जून, 1972 
एस . प्रो० 3139. - - प्रायकर अधिनियम , 1961 
( 1961 का 43 ) की धारा 122 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त 
शक्तियों और उस निमित्त उसे समर्थ बनाने वाली सभी अन्य 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुये और इस सम्बन्ध में सभी पूर्व अधि 
सूचनाओं को प्रतिष्ठित करते हुये , केन्द्रीय प्रत्यक्ष कर बोर्ड एतद्वारा 
निदेश देता है कि नीचे की अनुसूची के स्तम्भ 2 में विनिर्दिष्ट 
सहायक आयकर आयुक्त ( अपील ) , उसके सतम्भ 3 में की 
तत्स्थानी प्रविष्टि में विनिर्दिष्ट प्रायकर सर्किलों, वार्डो और जिलों 
में प्रायकर या अधिकर के लिये निर्धारित सभी व्यक्तियों और 
पायों के बारे में अपने कृत्यों का पालन करेंगे :-- - 


2. वेतन सकिल , लखनऊ । 
3. क - वार्ड छोड़कर मफिल 
--II, लखनऊ । ( जो 
31 - 5 - 68 तक और 
1 - 8 - 68 से 1 - 6 - 69 
तक और उसके पश्चात् 
विद्यमान था ) । 


3. ख -रेंज, लखनऊ 


क्रम सं० 


रेंज 


आयकर सर्किल , वार्ड और 

जिला 


1. च - वार्ड, सकिल -I, लख 

नऊ । 
2 . हरदोई । 
3. बहराईच । 
4. सीतापुर । 
5. लखीमपुर खेरी । 
6. बस्ती । 
7. गोण्डा । 


3 


1. विशेष रेंज, लखनऊ 


ANA 


4. वाराणसी रेंज , वाराणसी 


1. क - वार्ड, सर्किल - 1, 

लखनऊ । 
2. ख - वार्ड , सकिल - 1 , 

लखनऊ । 
3. ग - याई , सकिल - 1 , 

लखनऊ । 
4 . क - वार्ड , सकिल - II , 
लखनऊ ( जो 31 - 5 . 
1968 तक और 1 - 8 . 
68 से 1 - 6 - 69 तक 
और उसके पश्चात् विद्य 
मान था ) । 


1. वाराणसी । 
2 . विशेष सकिल , वारा 

णसी । 
3. विशेष सर्वेक्षण सकिल , 

वाराणसी । 
4 . परियोजना सकिल , 

वाराणसी । 
5 . जौनपुर । 
6. आजमगढ़ । 
7. बलिया । 
8 . गोरखपुर । 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - - 


- - - 


. . 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- - - 


- - 


SEC. 3( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 ASVINA 29 , 1894 

4439 
- - - - ...... . . ... . --. - - - . - . . 

जो इस अधिसूचना की तारीख मे ठीक पहले उस रेंज के , जिससे 

वह आयकर सकिल , वार्ड या जिला या उसका कोई भाग अन्तरित 
5. इलाहाबाद रेंज , इलाहाबाद 1. इलाहाबाद । 

कर दिया गया है , महायक आयुक्त ( अपील ) के 
2. मिर्जापुर । 

समक्ष लम्बित थीं , इस अधिसूचना के प्रभावी होने की तारीख 
3. फैजाबाद । 

से उस रेंज के , जिसको उक्त सर्किल , वार्ड या जिला या उसका 
4. वेतन सकिल, इलाहा कोई भाग अन्तरित कर दिया गया है, महायक आयुक्त ( अपील ) 
बाद । 

को अन्तरित कर दी जायेंगी , जो उनके सम्बन्ध में कार्यवाही करेगा । 
6 . क -रेंज , बरेली 1 . क - वार्ड , बरेली । 

यह अधिसूचना 15- 7 - 72 से प्रभावी होगी । 
2. ख - वार्ड , बरेली । 

[ सं० 1 29( 261 / 1/ 72- आई० टी० जे०) ] 
3. हल्दवानी । 
4. शाहजहांपुर । 
5 . नैनीताल । 

New Delhi, the 20th July 1972 

S . 0 . 3140 . In exercise of the powers conferred by 
7. ख -रेंज, बरेली 1 . बरेली सकिल, निम्न sub -section ( 1) of section 122 of Income Tax Act 1961 

(43 of 1961), and all other powers enabling it in that 
लिखित को छोड़कर : -- 

behalf, the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby makes 
(i ) क - वाई , बरेली । the following amendments in the Schedule appended to 

its Notification No. 89 ( F . No. 261 / 16 / 72 -ITJ ) dated the 
( ii ) ख -वार्ड , बरेली । 15th May, 1972. 
2. पीलीभीत । 

In the said Schedule, against the following Ranges of 

the Appellate Assistant Commissioners of Income- tax , 
3. बदायू । 

addition as noted against each shall be made in column 
4. अलमोड़ा । 

Nagpur Range, Nagp : it . 27. I. T . O ., Shuvcy Circle , Nagpur 
8. विशेष , मुरादाबाद 1. क -वार्ड , मुरादाबाद । 

Akola Range, Akola. . 20. I. T . O ., C - Ward, Chandrapur . 
2. ख - वाई , मुरादाबाद । 

21. I. T . O ., Survey Circle, Akola . 
3. क - वार्ड , नजीबाबाद । 

22. I. T . O ., A - Ward , Yeotmal . 
4. कदाई, बुलन्दशहर । 

23. I. T . 0 ., B- Ward, Yeotmal. 

Aurangabad Range, Aurnga - I9 . I. T . O ., Parbhani. 
9. मुरादाबाद रेंज , मुरादाबाद । 1. मुरादाबाद सकिल , 

__ bad. 
निम्नलिखित को छोड़ कर : 

20. I. T . O ., Bhir. 

This notification shall take effect from 31st July , 1972. 
(i) क - वाई , मुरादा 
बाद । 

[ No. 144. ( F . No. 261 / 16 / 72 -ITJ). ] 
( ii ) ख -बार्ड , मुरादा 
बाद । 

नई दिल्ली, 20 जुलाई 1972 
2. नजीबाबाद मफिल , 
निम्नलिखित को छोड़करः 

एम० प्रो . 3140 .-- - प्रायकर अधिनियम , 1961 
क - वार्ड , नजीबाबाद । ( 1961 का 43 ) की धारा 122 की उपधारा 
3 चंदौसी । 

( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का , और उसको उम 
4. रामपुर । 

निमित्त समर्थ बनाने वाली सभी अन्य शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
5 . बलन्दशहर किल , 

करते हए, केन्द्रीय प्रत्यक्ष कर बोर्ड, अपनी अधिसूचना मं० 89 
निम्नलिखित को छोड़कर : 

( फा० सं० 261/ 16/ 72 -पाई टी जे ) नारीख 15 मई , 1972 
क - वार्ड , बुलन्दशहर । 

से संलग्न अनुमवी में एतदद्वारा निम्नलिखित संशोधन करता 
6 . काशीपुर । 


है । 


- - - - . 


- 


उक्त अगसूची में , सहायक प्रायकर ग्रायुक्त ( अपील ) को 
निम्नलिखित रेजों के सामने, स्तम्भ 2 में प्रत्येक के सामने यथा 
लिखित परिवर्तन किए जाएंगे । 


जहां इस अधिसूचना द्वारा कोई प्रायकर मकिल , वार्ड या 
जिला या उसका कोई भाग एक रेंज से दूसरे रेंज को अन्तरित 
हो गया हो यहां उस आयकर भकिल , वार्ड या जिले या उसके 
किसी भाग में किए गए निर्धारणों के परिणामस्वरूप की गई अपीलें 


नागपुर रेंज, नागपुर 


27 आयकर अधिकारी, सर्वेक्षण 

सकिल, नागपुर । 


4440 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II --- 


- 


- 


- 


विशेष रेंज , जबलपुर । 


रायपुर रेंज , रायपुर । 


अकोला रेंज , अकोला । 20 प्रायकर अधिकारी , ग-- 

बार्ड, चन्द्रपुर । 
21. प्रायकर अधिकारी , मवक्षण 

मकिल, अकोला । 
22 आयकर अधिकारी, क -वार्ड , 

यवतमाल । 
23. आयकर अधिकारी, ख - वाई , 

यवतमाल । 
औरंगाबाद रेंज , औरंगा- 19. आयकर अधिकारी, परभणी । 

बाद । 20. आयकर अधिकारी , भिड । 
यह अधिसूचना 31 जुलाई, 1972 से प्रभावी होगी । 
[ सं० 144 ( फा० सं० 26 1/ 16/ 72 - पाई टी जे ) ] 


8. आयकर अधिकारी, क-1 

वाई, जबलपुर । 
9. प्रायकर अधिकारी , क - II 

वार्ड, जबलपुर । 
29. आयकर अधिकारी , क -वार्ड , 

भिलाई । 
30. आयकर अधिकारी, ख -वार्ड , 

भिलाई । 
31. आयकर अधिकारी, ग-वार्ड , 

भिलाई । 


$ . O . 3141. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - section ( 1 ) of section 122 of Income Tax Act, 1961 
( 43 of 1961 ) , and all other powers enabling it in that be 
half, the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby makes 
the following amendments in the Schedule appended to 
its Notification No . 100 ( F . NO . 261 / 7 / 72 -ITJ ) dated the 
31st May, 1972: - - 
(1 ) In the said Schedule, against • the following 

Ranges of the Appellate Assistant Commis 
sioners of Income-tax , addition as noted 

against each shall be made in column 2 . 
Special Range , Indore . 9 . Incometax Officer , B -Ward , 

___ Indorc . 
Special Range, Jabalpur. . 8. Incometax Cfficer, A - I Waids, 

Jabalpur, 
9 . Incometax Officer , A - II Waid , 

Jabalpur. 
Raipur Range, Raipur . . 29.Incometax Officer , A - Ward, Bhilai 

30 . 

B -Ward , Bhilai. 
31 . 

C - Ward , Bhilai . 


(ii ) उक्त अनुसूची में , सहायक आयुक्त ( अपील ) , 
इंदौर रेंज , इंदौर के सामने , स्तम्भ 2 के नीचे, क्रम सं० 2 में , 
" आयकर अधिकारी, ख -वाई , इंदौर के स्थान पर , " आयकर 
अधिकारी प्रशासन , इंदौर " प्रतिस्थापित किया जाएगा । 
यह अधिसचना 3 1 जुलाई , 1972 मे प्रभावी होगा । 
[ सं० 145 ( फा० सं० 26 1/ 7/ 72-- आई टी जे )] 

पी० के० शरण, अवर सचिव , 
केन्द्रीय प्रत्यक्ष कर बोर्ड । 


CORRIGENDA 


fi ) In the sald Schedule, against Appellate Assis 

tant Commissioner Indore Range, Indore un 
der column 2 at S . No . 2 , " I. T . O . B . ---Ward , 
Indore" shall be substituted by " I. T . O . Admini 
stration , Indore . 


INCOME- TAX 
New Delhi, the 30th June 1972 
S . O . 3142 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 122 of the Inrome- tax Act , 
1961 (43 of 1961) and all other powers enabling it in 
that behalf , the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby 
directs that the following corrections shall be made in 
the Schedule to its Notification No. 96 ( F . No. 26 / 12 / 72 
IT .J ). dated the 29th May. 1972: ---- 
( 1 ) In serial No . 2 for " SPECIAL RANGE , AGRA " 

Tead. " RANGE II , AGRA . " 


This notification shall take effect from 31st July , 
1.972. 

INo. 145 ( F . No. 261 / 7 / 72-ITJ). ] 


( 2 ) In serial No. 3 for " RANGE II , AGRA " read 

" RANGE III . AGRA. " 
( 3) In serial No. 5 for "SPECIAL RANGE. KAN 

PUR ” read " RANGE I, KANPUR ." 


एस० प्रो० 3 1 41 .--- प्रायकर अधिनियम , 1961 
( 1961 का 43) की धारा 122 की उपधाग 
( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदान गक्तियों का , और उमको उस 
निमित्त समर्थ बनाने वाली सभी अन्य शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करने हए, केन्द्रीय प्रत्यक्ष कर बोर्ड, अपनी अधिसूचना सं0 100 
( फा०सं . 261 / 7/ 72 - आई टी जे ) , तारीख 31 मई , 1972 
मे संलग्न अनुमूची में एतद्द्वारा निम्नलिखित संशोधन करता 


( 4 ) In serial No. 6 for " RANGE I. KANPUR" read. 

" RANGE II , KANPUR. " 
( 5 ) In serial No. 7 for " RANGE II , KANPUR " read 

" RANGE III , KANPUR. " 
(6 ) In serial No. 8 ( or " RANGE ITI , KANPUR " read 

" RANGE IV , KANPUR ." 
( 7 ) In serial No . 11 under columns (2 ) and ( 3 ) Delete 

the existing range and circles and add the 

following : - 
Col. ( 3 ) 

Col. ( 3 ) 
" RANGE - III, MEERUT" 

" CENTRAL CIRCI ES AT MLERUT" 


. 


( 1 ) उक्त अनुसूची में , सहायक प्रायकर आयुक्त 
( अपील ) की निम्नलिखित रेंजों के मामने , स्तम्भ 2 में प्रत्येक के 
सामने यथा लिखित परिवर्तन किए जाएंगे । 
विशेष रेंज , इंदौर । 

9. आयकर अधिकारी , ख - वाई , 

इंदौर । 


[ No . 134 ( F , No. 281 / 12 / 72 -ITJ). ] 


4441 


- 


- 


- - 


SEC, 3 (ii) ] 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 ASVINA 29, 1894 
" .. .. -- - . . --- - -- - - - - ----- - -- -- - -- . . .. 

( 3 ) in Colunin (2 ) against B - Range, Amritsar, delete 
शुद्धि पत्र 

the existing Income- tax Circles , Wards and Districts 
आय कर 

appearing in item 1 and substitute the following : - 

]." All Central Circles which have or had their 
नई दिल्ली , 30 जन , 1972 

headquarters at Amritsar , Ludhiana , Ambala 
and Srinagar and Central Circles III , IV and 

V of Kanpur. 
एस० प्रो० 3 1 42. - - आयकर अधिनियम 1951 ( 1961 का 43 ) 

II. The existing Explanatory Note shall be deleted 
की धाग 1 22 की उप धाग ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियाँ का और 

and the following shall be substituted : 
उसको उस निमित्त समर्थ बनाने वाली सभी अन्य शक्तियों का प्रयोग " This Notification has become necessary conse 
करते हुए, केन्द्रीय प्रत्यक्ष कर बोई एतद्द्वारा निदेश देता है कि 

quent on realignment of jurisdiction of Appeal 

late Assistant Commissioners within the Com 
उमकी अधिसूचना मं० 96 ( फा० सं० 261/ 12/ 72 - पाई टी जे ) 

missioner of Income- tax s charge , in view of 

work -load etc . 
नारीख 29 मई 1972 को अनुसूची में निम्नलिखित शुद्धियां की 

[ No . 140 ( F . No. 261 / 19 / 72 -ITJ.) ] 

P. K . SHARAN, Under Secy . 
जाएंगी : - - 

Central Board of Direct Taxes. 
( 1 ) क्रम मं० 2 में , "विशेष रेंज, प्रागग के स्थान 

नई दिल्ली , 17 जुजाई 1972 
पर रेंज - 2, आगरा ” पढ़ें । 

एस० प्रो० 3143.- - प्रायकर अधिनियम 1961 
( 2 ) क्रम सं० 3 में , “ रेंज - 2 आगरा " के स्थान पर 

( 1961 का 43 ) की धारा 122 की उपधारा ( 1 ) 
"रेंज - 3, आगरा पढ़ें । 

द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों और उस निमित्त उस समर्थ 
( 3 ) क्रम मं० 5 में , "विशेष रेंज , कानपुर " के स्थान पर, 

बनाने वाली सभी अन्य शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय 
रेंज - 1, कानपुर ” पढ़ें । 

प्रत्यक्ष कर बोर्ड एतद्वारा निदेश देता है कि उसकी अधिसूचना 

सं0 99 (फा० सं० 261/ 19/ 72- पाई० टी० जे० ) तारीख 
( 4 ) क्रम सं० 6 में , "रेंज - 1, कानपुर ” के स्थान पर 

31 - 5 - 1972 की अनुसूची और स्पष्टीकारक टिप्पण में निम्न 
" रेंज - 2, कानपुर ” पढ़ें । 

लिखित शुखियां की जाएंगी : --- 
( 5 ) क्रम सं० 7 में , “रेंज - 2, कानपुर " के स्थान पर 
" रेंज - 3, कानपुर " पढ़ें । 

1. उक्त अनुसूची में : 
( 6 ) क्रम मं० 8 में , रेंज - 3, कानपुर " के स्थान पर 

( 1 ) "अमृतसर रेंज के स्थान पर 
" रेंज - 4, कानपुर " पढ़ें । 

"क -रेंज, अमृतसर ” पढ़ें । 
( 7) क्रम मं० 11 में , स्तम्भ ( 2 ) और ( 3 ) के नीचे 

( 2 ) “ केन्द्रीय रेंज, अमृतसर " के स्थान पर 
विद्यमान रेंज और सकिल लप्त कर दिए 

" ख - रंज , अमृतसर ” पढ़ें । 
जाएंगे :---- 

( 3 ) ख -रेंज , अमृतसर के सामने स्तम्भ ( 2 ) में मद 1 में 

पाने वाले विद्यमान आयकर सर्किल , वार्ड और 
स्तम्भ ( 2 ) 

स्तम्भ ( 3 ) 
"रेज - 3 मेरठ " " केन्द्रीय सर्किल , मेरठ , 

जिले हटा दें और निम्नलिखित रखें : - - 

1. “सभी केन्द्रीय सर्किल , जिनके मुख्यालय अमृतसर , 
[सं०134 (फा०सं० 261 /12/ 72 - आई टी जे )] 

लधियाना , अम्बाला और श्रीनगर में हैं या थे 

और कानपुर के केन्द्रीय सकिल III, V 
और V " 


New Delhi, the 17th July 1972 


II . विद्यमान स्पष्टीकारक टिप्पण हटा दिया जाएगा और 
निम्नलिखित रखा जाएगा :--- 


S . O . 3143 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
Sub -section (1 ) of Section 122 of the Income- tax Act , 
1961 (43 of 1961 ) and of all other powers enabling it in 
that behall , the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby 
directs that the following corrections shall be made in 
the Schedule and Explanatory Note to its Notification 
No . 99 ( F . No. 261 / 19 / 72-ITJ) dated 31st May , 1972 : 


" यह अधिसूचना कार्याधिक आदि को ध्यान में रखते 

हुए प्रायकर प्रायुक्त के प्रभार के भीतर सहायक 
प्रायुक्त ( अपील ) की अधिकारिता के पुनः 
संरेखन के परिणामस्वरूप प्रावश्यक हो गई है । " 


I . In the said Schedule : 


( 1) for " Amritsar Range," read " A -- Range, Amritsar." 

( 2) for " Central " Range, Amritsar " read " B - Range, 
Amritsar." 


मं० 140 ( फा० सं० 26 1- 19- 72 - पाई०टी० जे० ) 


- 


- 


1 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


4442 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 25. 197: / ASVINA 29 , 1894 

[ PART It -- 

- - - - - - - - - - - - 
INCOME- TAX 

Sortion 3, sub -section (li ) dated the 11th May, 1963 , as 

amended from time to time 
New Delhi , the 20th June 1972 

I. Against S . No , 7 - A , Delhi (Central ) , under column 
S . O . 3144. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 

3 of the Schedule appended thereto , 
sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 121 of the Income- tax Act . 

( i ) the following entries shall be deleted : 
1961 (43 of 1961 ) the Central Board of Direct Taxes 
hereby makes the following amendments to the Sche 

3 . Central Circles I and II at Ludhiana . 
dule appended to its Notification No. 20 ( F . No. 55 / 1 / 62 
IT ), dated the 30 h Auri], 1963 , published as S . O . 1293 

4. Central Circles I, II and II at Amritsar . 
on page 1454 - 1457 of the Gazette of India , Part II Sec 

( ii ) the existing ite , ns No . 5 to 8 shall be re 
tion 3 , Sub -section (ii ), dated the 11th May , 1963 as 

numbered as 3 to 6 
amended from time to time. 

II . Against S . No. 13, Punjab, Jammu & Kashmir and 
I. Against S . No. 5A , Bombay City ill, under 

Chandigarh , under column 3 of the Schedule appended 
Column 3 of the Schedule appended thereto , 

thereto , the existing entry shall be substituted by the 
for A - I Ward and A - III Ward read C - IB Ward . 

following: 
If. Against S . N . 5B , Bombay City IV , under column 

" States of Punjab, Jammu & Kashmir and Union 
3 of the Schedule appended thereto , for C - IV 

Territory of Chandigarh including Central 
Ward read A -I Ward and A -III Ward . 

Circles at Ludhiana and Amritsar and Central 
This Notification shall take effect from 26th June, 

Circles III - VII , Ludhiana ( previously known 
1972 . 

as Special Circles, Wards A - E , Ludhiana) and 

excluding Central Circle at Srinagar and also 
[ No . 117 ( F. No. 187 / 13 / 72- IT ( AI) . ] 

excluding Income- tax Circle for Kangra and 
Chamba Districts of Himachal Pradesh at 

Pathankot. " 
आयकर 

This notification shall come into force on the 1st 
July , 1972. 


नई दिल्ली , 20 जून , 1972 


| No . 124 (F . No. 187 / 14 / 72-IT ( AI) .] 


T . P. JHUNJHUNWALA, Secy . 
Central Board of Direct Taxes. 


एस० प्रो० 31 44.--- आयकर अधिनियम , 1961 
( 1961 का 43) की धारा 121 की उपधारा ( i ) द्वारा प्रदत्त 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय प्रत्यक्ष कर बोर्ड , भारत के 
राजपन , भाग 2, खण्ड 3, उपखण्ड ( ii ), तारीख 11 मई, 
1963 के पृष्ठ 145 4 - 1457 पर का० प्रा० 1293 के रूप में 
प्रकाशित , अपनी अधिसूचना सं० 20 ( फा० सं० 55 / 1/ 62 
आई टी ) , तारीख 30 अप्रैल , 1963 से संलग्न समय - समय पर 
यया संशोधित अनुसूची में एतद्वारा निम्नलिखित संशोधन करता 


नई दिल्ली , 27 जून , 1972 


1. क्र० सं० 5क , बम्बई नगर 3 के सामने , उससे संलग्न 

अनुसूचो के स्तम्भ 3 के नीचे, क - 1 वार्ड और 
क - 3 वार्ड के स्थान पर , ग - 4 वार्ड पढ़ें । 


एस० ओ० 3145.-- - आयकर अधिनियम , 1961 
( 1961 का 43 ) की धारा 121 की उप-धारा ( i) द्वारा प्रदत्त 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय प्रत्यक्ष कर बोर्ड , भारत के 
राजपत्र , भाग 2, खण्ड 3, उप खण्ड ( ii ) तारीख 11 मई , 
1963 के पृष्ठ 145 4 से 1 457 पर का० प्रा० 1293 के रूप 
में प्रकाशित अपनी अधिसूचना सं० 20 ( फा० सं० 55/ 1 / 
62- पाई टी ) तारीख 30 अप्रैल, 1963 से संलग्न समय - समय 
पर यथा संशोधित अन सूची में एतद्द्वारा निम्नलिखित संशोधन 
करता है : - - 


2. कं० सं० 5 - ख , बम्बई नगर 4 के सामने , उससे 

सलग्न अनुसूची के स्तम्भ 3 के नीचे, ग - 4 वार्ड 

के स्थान पर , क - 1 वार्ड और क - 3 बार्ड पढ़ें । 
यह अधिसूचना 26 - 6 - 1972 से प्रभावी हो । 

[ सं० 117 ( फा० सं० 187/ 13/ 72 - पाई टी ( ए 1 ) ] 


I. क्र० सं० 7-क , दिल्ली ( केन्द्रीय ) के सामने , उससे 

संलग्न अनुसूची के स्तम्भ 3 के नीचे , - - 


New Delhi, the 27th June 1972 


( i) निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टियां लुप्त कर दी जाएंगी : --- 

3. केन्द्रीय सर्किल i, और ii , लुधियाना । 
4 -केन्द्रीय सकिल i, ii और iii अमृतसर । 


(ii ) विद्यमान मद सं० 5 से 8, मद 3 से 6 के रूप में 

पुन : संख्यांकित की जाएंगी । 


S. O . 3145 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub -section ( 1) of Section 121 of the Income-tax Act, 
1961 ( 43 of 1961 ) , the Central Board of Direct Taxes 
hereby makes the following amendments to the Schedule 
appended to its Notification No. 20 ( F . No. 55 / 1 / 62 -IT ), 
dated the 30th April, 1963 published as S . O . 1293 on 
pages 1454 to 1457 of the Gazette of India Part II , 


II . ० सं० 13, पंजाब, जम्मू और कश्मीर और 

चण्डीगढ़ के सामने , उससे संलग्न अनुसूची के 


SEC. 3(I ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4443 


- - - 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


कर बोर्ड एतदद्वारा निदेश देता है कि कोई सहायक प्रायकर प्रायुक्त , 
जो सम्पदा शुल्क - अपील-नियन्त्रक नियुक्त हुआ हो , जिसका 
मुख्यालय बरेली में हो , 


स्तम्भ 3 के नीचे, विद्यमान , प्रविष्टि के स्थान 
पर , निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टि प्रतिस्थापित की 

जाएगी : -- 
" पंजाब , जम्मू और कश्मीर राज्य और चण्डीगढ़ 

संघ राज्य क्षेत्र जिनके अन्तर्गत केन्द्रीय सकिल , 
लुधियाना मौर अमृतसर और केन्द्रीय सर्किल 
III - VII लुधियाना ( जो पहले विशेष 
सकिल , वार्ड क - ऊ, लुधियाना के नाम से जाने 
जाते थे ) भी हैं और जिनके अन्तर्गत 
केन्द्रीय सकिल , श्रीनगर नहीं है और जिनके 
अन्तर्गत हिमाचल प्रदेश के कांगड़ा और 
चम्ग जिलो के लिए पठानकोट स्थित पाय 

कर सकिल भी नहीं हैं । " 
यह अधिसूचना 7 जुलाई, 1972 से प्रवृत्त होगी । 
[सं० 124 ( फा० सं० 187/ 14 / 72- पाई टी (ए 1 )] 


( क ) मत व्यक्तियों की सम्पदा, जो सम्पदा शुल्क सहा 

यक नियन्त्रक द्वारा सम्पदा शुल्क के लिए निर्धारित 

की गई हो , और 
( ख ) मृत व्यक्तियों को सम्पदा, जिसके सम्बन्ध में सम्पदा 

शुकमहायक नियन्त्रक द्वारा दिए गए किसी आवेश 
के विरुद्ध सम्पदा शुल्क अधिनियम , 1953 की 
धारा 62 के अधीन अपील की गई हो , 


की बाबत वहां जहां ऐसे सहायक नियन्त्रक ने , सम्पदा शुल्क अधि 
नियम , 1953 के अधीन अपने कृत्यों का प्रयोग करते हुए नीचे 
वर्णित प्रायकर प्रायुक्तों : --- 


प्रायकर आयुक्त , लखनऊ । 


प्रायकर प्रायुक्त , कानपुर । 


टी० पी० मुनमुनवाला , सचिव , 

वेन्द्रीय प्रत्यक्ष कर बोर्ड । 


की अधिकारिता के भीतर समाविष्ट किसी क्षेत्र में ऐसे निर्धारण 
किए हों या ऐसे प्रादेश दिए हों सम्पदा शुल्क- अपील-नियन्त्रक के 
कृत्यों का पालन करेगा । 


2 . यह अधिसूचना 15 जुलाई , 1972 से प्रवृत्त होगी । 


[ सं० 7/ फ० सं० 301/ 77172 - १०डी० ) 


बलवीर सिंह , 
सचिव , केन्द्रीय प्रत्यक्ष कर बोर्ड । 


ESTATE DUTY 

New Delhi, the 13th July 1972 
S. 0 . 3146. --In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - section ( 2A ) of Section 4 of the Estate Duty Act , 
1953 ( 34 of 1953) , the Central Board of Direct Taxes 
hereby direct that an Assistant Commissioner of 
Income- tax , appointed to be the Appellate Controller 
of Estate Duty with headquarters at Bareilly , shall per 
form the functions of an Appellate Controller of Estate 
Duty in respect of, 
( a ) the estates of deceased pergons assessed to 

estate duty by an Assistant Controller of Estate 

Duty , and 
(b ) the estates of deceased persons in relation to 

which an appeal lles under section 62 of the 
Estate Duty Act, 1953 , against an order passed 

by an Assistant Controller of Estate Duty . 
where such Assistant Controller has in exercise of his 
functions under the Estate Duty Act, 1953 made such 
assessments or passed such orders in any area com 
prised within the jurisdiction of the Commissioners of 
Income-tax mentioned below: 

Commissioner of Income-tax , Lucknow . 

Commissioner of Income-tax , Kanpur , 
2 . This notification shall come into force with effect 
from the 15th July, 1972 . 

[ No . 7 / F . No. 301 / 77 /72- E. D . ] 

__ BALBIR SINGH, Secy ., 
Central Board of Direct Taxes . 


DEPARTMENT OF SUPPLY 


New Delhi, the 28th March , 1972. 


S . O . 3147 . - -In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-rule ( 2 ) of rule 9 , clause ( b ) of sub -rule ( 2 ) of rule 
12, and sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 24 , read with rule 34 , of the 
Central Civil Services (Classification , Control and 
Appeal) Rules , 1966 , the President hereby directs that 
the following further amendment shall be made in the 
notification of the Government of India in the late 
Ministry of Industry and Supply (Department of Sup 
ply and Technical Development ) No. S . R . O . 3687 , dated 
the 12th October , 1964 , as amended by notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Supply No , S . O . 
1381, dated the 2nd February , 1971 , namely : 


सम्पदा शुल्क 


In the Schedule to the said notification , for the 

entry " Deputy Director General ( Administra 
tion ) " wherever it occurs, the entry " Director 
of Administration " shall be substituted. 


INo . File 17 ( 1) / 87- V . ] 


का० मा . 3146 . - सम्पदा शुल्क अधिनियम , 1953 
( 1953 का 34 ) की धारा 4 की उपधारा ( 2 ) द्वारा 
प्रदत्त पाक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय प्रत्यक्ष 


S . S . PURI , - 
Director ( Vilgilance ) . 


4444 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[PART II 


MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE 
पूति विभाग 

(Department of Agriculture ) 
& fapt, 28 TTE , 1972 

New Delhi, the 18th July , 1972 . 

S . O . 3148 . - The following draft of certain rules fur 
GĦO ao 3147 - - il fafar (aff701 , 

ther to amend the Seed Potatoes Grading and Marking 
Haut 97 9977 ) fata 1965 À fauh 9 59- 624h ( 2 ) Rules , 1963, which the Central Government proposes to 

make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 
fauh 12 # 39 futh ( 2 ) $ 10g ( T ) 74 34 FT of the Agricultural Produce (Grading and Marking ) Act, 
साथ पठित नियम 2.1 के उप-नियम ( 1 ) के द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का 

said soction , for information of all persons likely to be 
प्रयोग करते हुए , राष्ट्रपति एतदवाग निदेश देते हैं कि भारत affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the said 

draft will be taken into consideration on or after 30th 
सरकार के भतपूर्व उद्योग और पूर्ति मंत्रालय ( पूर्ति तथा September, 1972 . 
@ ntatit fanta faHTT ) # ATCe 12 # 4187, 1964 77 Any objection or suggestion which may be received 

from any person with respect to the said draft before 
अधिसूचना संख्या एस० पार० ओ० 3687 में , जो भारत मरकार 

the date so specifled will be considered by the Central 
er ga name Ft ar TET 297971, 1971 wit afat 

Government. 

Draft Rules 
संख्या एस०प्रो० 1361 द्वारा संशोधित की गई थी , और आगे 

1 . These rules may be called the Seeds Potatoes Grad 
निम्नलिखित संशोधन किया जाएगा अर्थात् : - - 

ing and Marking ( Amendment) Rules, 1972 . 
3 aTTito # , " 39 Farfa 9 ( TAITAA ) " 

2. In the Seed Potatoes Gruding and Marking Rules, 

1983 : 
की प्रविष्टि के लिए, जहां भी वह जाए, "प्रशासन निदेशक " प्रविष्ट्रि 

(1) in rule 3 for the words and figures " Schedule 
प्रतिस्थापित की जाएगी । 

II" , the words and figures " Schedules II and 

III ” shall be substituted . 
[peut $ TO 17 (1 )}67-31 ] 
( li ) in rule 4 for the words and figures " Schedule 

II " , the words and figures " Schedules II and III " 
एस० एम० पूरो, 

shall be substituted . 
figurii ( afat ) 

( lil ) after Schedule II , the following Schedule 

shall be added namely : 
SCHEDULE III 
( See rules 3 and 4) 


Grade designations and definition of equality of Seed Potatoes of Kufri 


Chandramukhi variety . 


Size 


Grazie 
designation . 


Gineral characteris- 


Under size 


Disease 


Damage 


tics 


Conformity 
tu varietal 
characteristics 


Earth and / or 
extraneous 

matters 


over size 


7 


. 


4 — 1 


. Above 55 mm . 

in length 


4 - II 


46 mm , to 
55 mm . in 
length . 


The tubers shall be No off - type 2 % under 
reasonably clean , tubers allowed sized by 
healthy , firm with in excess of count. 
charactersițiç 

1 % by count. 
shape and col 
O !ir of the varicty 
and each tiher hav 
ing at least three 
well - developed via 
ble eyes . 


4 - III 


25 mm . tu 
45 mm . in 
length . 


No pimpled Not to exceed Not to exceed 
(Nematode more than 3 % 1 % by 
infected or as under 

weight. 
acab infected ) (1) upto 1 % sli 
tubers allowcd ghtly cracked & 
Blight or bac - bruised tubers ; 
tcria infected 
tubers not to (ii) upto 2 % in 
exceed 1 % by gect damaged 
count. 

provided the in 
jury doce not 
impair the sced 
quality ; 
(ili) Superficial 
blemishes , not 
likely to affect 
keeping quality , 
shall not exceed 
in aggregate 1 / 4 
of the total area 
of a tuber , 


- 


- - 


- - 


N . B . Tuber of Kufri Chandramjkhi variety arc oval, slightly longer than “ sup -to - date" , flattened and attractive , Colour of the 
kin is white ard that of the flesh is dull white, Eyes arc flats, concentrated on the crown region . The number of eyes is more tha 


ENO, F . 13- 8 / 71- C & M . ] 


SEC . 3(ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 


4445 


कृषि मन्त्रालय 


( कृषि विभाग ) 


नई दिल्ली, 18 जुलाई 1972 


का० प्रा० 3148 - बीज पाल श्रेणीकरण और चिह्नन नियम , 1963 में और संशोधन करने के लिये कतिपय नियमों का , जो केन्द्रीय 
सरकार कृषि उत्पाद ( श्रेणी करण और चिह्नन ) अधिनियम , 1937 ( 1937 का 1 ) की धारा 3 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए बनाने की प्रस्थापना करती है, निम्नलिखित प्रारूप उक्त धारा द्वारा यथाअपेक्षित , उससे संभाव्यत : प्रभावित होने वाले सभी व्यक्तियों 
की जानकारी के लिये एतद्द्वारा प्रकाशित किया जाता है और एतद् द्वारा सूचित किया जाता है कि उक्त प्रारूप पर 30 - 9 - 1972 को या 
पश्चात विचार किया जाएगा । 

उक्त प्रारूप के बारे में किसी भी व्यक्ति से , इस प्रकार विनिर्दिष्ट तारीख से पूर्व प्राप्त होने वाले आक्षेप या सुझाव पर केन्द्रीय सरकार 
द्वारा विचार किया जायेगा । 

प्रारूप नियम 


1 . इन नियमों का नाम बीज पाल श्रेणीकरण औरचिहन ( संशोधन ) नियम , 1972 होगा । 


2. बीज पाल श्रेणीकरण और चिहन नियम , 1963 में :- - 
(i) नियम 3 में, " अनुसूची if " शब्द और अंकों के स्थान पर “ अनुसूची ii और ii " शब्द और अंक प्रतिस्थापित किए जाएंगे । 
( ii ) नियम 4 में “अनुसूची ii " शब्द और अंकों के स्थान पर " अनुसूची ii और iii शब्द और अंक प्रतिस्थापित किए जायेंगे । 
( iii ) अनुसूची ii के पश्चात् निम्नलिखित अनुसूची जोड़ी जायेगी, अर्थात् :- - 

अनुसूची -III 

(नियम 3 और 4 देखिये ) 
कुफरी चन्द्रमुखी किस्म के बीज पाल के श्रेणी अभिधान तथा क्वालीटी की परिभाषा 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


श्रेणी अभिप्रान 


प्राकार 


साधारण लक्षण 


किस्म के लक्षणों से अन रूपता 


ए - 1 


लम्बाई में 55 मि०मी० से अधिक आलुकन्द उचित प्रकार से स्वच्छ,स्मथ, किस्म से भिन्न पालकन्द गिनती में । प्रतिशत 

ठोस हों और किस्म के विशिस्ट से अधिक अनमय नहीं होंगे । 
आकार और रंग के होंगे तथा 
प्रत्येक पालकन्द में कम से कम तीन 

सुविकसित अंकुरण क्षम पाखें होंगी । 
लम्बाई में 46 मि० मी० से 55 मि० मी० 

-- यथोक्त 

--यथोक्त 
तक । 
लम्बाई में 25 मि०मी० से 45मि० मी० 

-- यथोक्त 

- यथोक्त 
तक । 


ए - 2 


ए - 3 


- -- - 


--- - - ----- - 


- - - 


- - -- 


4446 


SEC . 3 (i ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


- - - - -- - - -- - - - - 


रोग 


क्षति 


सामान्य प्राकार से छोटे 
आकार या बड़े ग्राकार 
का 


मिट्टी और/ या वाहय 
पदार्थ 


वजन द्वारा 1 % से 
अधिक नहीं होंगे । 


के । 


गिनती में 2 प्रतिशत, उठे हुए दाने वाले ( ( नेमाटोड संदूषण वाले नीचे लिखे अनुसार 3 % से अधिक नहीं 
किस्म से छोटे आकार अथवा फालूद संदूषण वाले अनुछेद नहीं होगी : 

होंगे । चिस्ती अथवा जीवाणु संदूषित 1. 1 % तक हल्के दरार वाले और 

कन्द गिनती में 1 % से अधिक नहीं होंगे । खरेचि वाले मालूकन्द ; 
ययोक्त 

2 . 2 % तक जन्तु द्वारा क्षत बशर्ते कि उस 

क्षति से बीज की क्वालिटी में फर्क न 

पाता हो ; 
यथोक्त 

करने वाले बाहरी धम्ने जोकि कन्द के 
कुल प्राकार के कुल 1 से अधिक नहीं 


होंगे । 


विशेष ध्यान दीमिये : कुकरी चन्द्रमुखी किस्म के कन्द अंडाकार अद्यतन किस्म के थोड़े लम्बे , चपटे तथा आकर्षक होते हैं । छिलके 

का रंग सफेद तथा गुदे का मद्धिम सफेद होता है । पाखे चपटी तथा शिखर क्षेत्र पर संकेन्द्रित होती है । प्रांखों की 
संख्या अद्यतन से , अधिक होती है । 

[ सं० फ० 13 - 8 / 71-ऋण तथा विषणन 


New Delhi, the 2nd September, 1972 . 
S . O . 3149. In exercise of the powers conferred by 
Section 6 of the Agricultural Produce (Grading and 
Marking ) Act, 1937 ( 1 of 1937) , the Central Government 
bereby declares that the provisions of the said Act shall 
apply to the following article. namely : - - 
Cocorrut (including Copra ) 

___ [ No. 13-5 / 72- C & M. ] 
T . D . MAKHIJANI, Under Secy . 


of the Government of India , in the Ministry of Food , 
Agriculture , Community Development and Cooperation 
(Department of Cooperation ), No, L / 11011/ 2 / 70 - Coord , 
dated the 27th March , 1971, the Central Government 
hereby directs that all the powers and authority exercis 
able by the Central Registrar of Cooperative Societies 
under the said Act shall, in relation to the cooperative 
societies specified in column ( 2 ) of the Table below , be 
exercisable also by the officers specified in the corres 
ponding entry in column ( 1 ) of the said Table , subject 
to the following conditions namely : 


नई दिल्ली , 2 मितम्बर , 1972 


( 1) that the powers and authority so delegated shall 
in respect of the following cooperative societies be exer 
cisable by the said ofñcers only in relation to matters 
pertaining to settlement of disputes , appeals, revision 
and review and execution of awards, decisions, decrees 
and orderg : - 


का० प्रा० 3149.-- - कृषि उपज ( श्रेणीकरण और चिह्नन ) 
अधिनियम , 1937 ( 1937 का 1 ) की धारा 6 द्वारा प्रदत्त 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा घोषित 
करती है कि उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध निम्नलिखित वस्तु को 
लाग होंगे , अर्थात् : - - 
" नारियल (जिसके अन्तर्गत गरी भी है ) " 

[ सं० 13- 5 / 72-ऋण तथा विवरण ] 
टी०डी०माखीजानी , अवर सचिव । 


( 1) All India Central Land Development Banks 

Cooperative Union Limited , Hyderabad , 
Andhra Pradesh , 


(2 ) All India State Cooperative Banks Federation 

Limited , Bombay , Maharashtra . 


(3 ) National Cooperative Union of India Limited . 

Delhi. 


(4 ) National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing 

Federation Limited , Delhi. 


(5 ) National Cooperative Consumers Federation 

Limited , Delhi. 


(Department of Cooperation ) 

New Delhi, the 22nd August, 1972 
S . O . 3150.. — In exercise of the owers conferred by 
section 5B of the Multi-unit Cooperative Societies Act , 
1942 ( 6 of 1942 ) , and in supersession of the notification 


(6 ) National Federation of Cooperative Sugar 

Factories Limited , Delfi. 


$ & c. 3( 11) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4447 


_ 


(7 ) National Federation of Industrial Cooperatives 

Limited , Delhi. 
(8 ) National Cooperative Housing Federation Limi 

ted , Delhi, 
(9 ) Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Limited , 

Delhi. 


( 11) All India Industrial Cooperative Banks Feder 

ation Limited , Bangalore . 
( 12) National Cooperative Dairy Federation of India 

Limited , New Delhi. 


( 2 ) that in the exercise of the powers and authority 
so delegated in relation to the matters specified in ( 1 ) 
above ( other than appeals , revision and review ) , the 
said officers shall compel with such directions as may 
he issued by the Control Registrar of Cooperative 
Societies . 


(10 ) All India Federation of Cooperative Spinning 

Mllls Limited , Bombay. 


TABLE 


Officers 


Multi -unit cooperative societies, 


- - 


- - - - - 


All multi- unit Cooperative socleites which actually are or 
are deemed to be registred in the State of Andhra Pradesh . 


All m :ilti- init cooperative societies which actually are or arc 
lecmed to be registered in the State of Assam . 


All multi-unit cooperative societies which actually are or are 
deemed to be registered in the State of Bihar . 


All multi- unit cooperative societies which actually are or are 
deemed to be registered in the State of Gujarat . 


All milti- init coucrative societies which actually are or are 
deem : to be registered in the State of Haryana. 


All milti- unit coopeative Societies which actually are or arc 
checmed to be registered in the State of Himachal Pradesh 


I Registrar of Cooperative Societies for the State of Andhra 

Pradesh appointed under acction 3 of the Andhra Pradesh 

Cooperative Socieites Act, 1964, 
2 Registrar of Cooperative Societies for the State of Assam 

appointed under scdtion 3 of the Assam Cooperative So 

cicties Act , 1949 . 
3 Registrar of Cooperative Societies for the State of Bihar ap 

pointed under section 6 of the Bihar an .. Oriasa Cooperative 

Societies Act, 1935. 
4 Registrar of Cooperative Societies for the State of Gujarat 

appointed under section 3 of the Gujarat Cooperative So - 

cieties Act, 1961. 
5 R zistrar of Cyperative Societies for th : State of Haryana 

200 intel under section 3 of the Puliah Cortive S . 

cieties Act, 1951 as in force in the State of Haryana. 
6 Registrar of Cooperative Societies for th : State of Himachal 

Pradesh appointed under section 3 of the Himachal Pradesh 

Cooperative Societies Act, 1956 . 
7 Razistrar of Cooperative Societies for the State of Kerala 

appointed under section 3 of the Kerala Cooperative So - 

cieties Act, 1969 . 
8 Registrar of Cooperative Societies for the State of Ma thya 

Pradesh appointed under section 3 of the M . P . Cooperative 

Societies Act, 1960. 
9 (i) Registrar of Cooperative Societies for the State of Mahi- 

rashtra appointed in ter section 3 of th : Viharashtra 

Cooperative Societies Act, 1960. 
(il) Divisional Joint Registrar of Cooperative Societios , 

Bombay Division , Bombay . 
15 Registrar of Coperative Societies for the State of Mysore 

og vinted in ler section 2A of the Mysore Cooperative 

Societies Act, 1959 . 
ti Registrar ofC erative Societies for th : State of Orissa 

aopsinted under section 3 of the Orissa Coperative So 

cieties Act , 1962 , 
IZ Registrar of Cyperative Societies for the State of Punjab 

aoppintet under section 3 of the Punjab Coopertiye So 

cieties Act , 1961 , 
13 Registrar of Cyperative Societies for the State of Rajasthan 


All multi - unit cooperative societies which actually are or 
are deemed to be registered in the State of Kerula . 


A ll nilti- init cooperative societies which actually are or arc 
deemed to be registered in the State of Madhya Pradesh . 


All multi-unit cooperative societies, which actually are or 
are deemed to be registered in the State of Maharashtra, 


All multi-init berative societies which actually are or are 
decmed to be registered in the State of Mysore , 


All milti-unit cooperative societies which actually are or are 
deemed to he registerd in the State of Orissa 


All multi - unit cooperative societies which actually are or are 
deemed to be registered in the State of Punjab . 


All multi- init cooperative ocieties which actually are or are 

deemed to be registered in the State of Rajasthan . 


Societics Act, 1965. 
14 (1) Registrar of Cooperative Societies for the State of Tamil 

Nadu apn vinted under section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Co 

Operative Societies Act , 1961. 
( ii) Toint Registrar of Coopcrative Societics ( Intensive Agri 

ciltural Area Programme), Tamil Nadu, Madras . 


All multi- unit cooperative societies which actually are or 
are decmcd to he registered in the State of Tamil Nadu . 


4448 


THE GAZETTE CF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVĪNA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II 


( 2) 


15 Registrar of Cooperative Societies for the State of Uttar Pra 

desh appointed under section 3 of the Uttar Pradesh Co decmed to be registered in the State of Uttar Pradesh . 

operative Societies Act, I965 . 
16 (i ) Registrar of Cooperative Societies for the State of West 

Bengal appointe under section of the Bengal Cooperative All multi- unit cooperative societies which actually are or arc 
Societies Act, 1940 . 

deemed to be registered in the State of West Bengal. 
( ii ) AdditionalRegistrar of Cooperative Societies, West Bengal, 

Calc : itta . 
17 Registrar of Coopeative Societies for Chandigarh appointed All multi-unit cooperative societies which actually are or are 

under setion 3 of the Punjab Cooperative Societies Act , deemed to be registered in theUnion torritory of Chandigarh , 

196r as in force in the Union territory of Chandigarh. 
18 Registrar of Cooperative Societies for Delhi appointed under All myılti-unit cooperative societies which actually are or are 

fcction 4 of the Bombay Cooperative societies Act, 1925 deemed to be registered in the Union tcrritory of Delhi 

us cxtended to Dehi. 
19 Registrar of Cooperative Societies for Gun , Daman and Diu , All multi-unit cooperative socictics which actually arcor 

appointed under Section 3 of the Maharashtra Cooperative are deemed to be registered in the Union territory of Goa , 
Societies Act , 1960 , as applicd to the Union territory of Daman and Diu . 

Goa , Daman & Dil . 
zn Registrar of Cooperative Societies for Manipur appointes All multi - unit cooperative societies which actually are or are 

under section 3 f the Assain Couporative Societies Act, deemed to be registered in the Union territory of Manipur. 

1949 , as extended to Manipur . 
21 Registrar of Cooper ilive Societies for Pondicherry appointes All multi-unit cooperative ocieties which actually are or are 

uin ,ler section 3 of th : Pondicherry Cooperative Societies deemed to be registered in the Union territory of Pondi 
Act , 1965 . 

cherry . 
22 Registrar of Coopera ive Societies for Tripura uppointes under All m. ilti - unit cooperative societies which actually are or are. 
___ section 4 of the Bombay Cooperative Sosi ties Act , I925 , deemed to be registered in the Union territory of Tripura . 

as extended to Tripura . 


. 


actually 


23 (i) Th : Director of In .lustries and Commerce, Tamil Nadu . 
( 11) Th : Joint Director of Industries and Com nerce , Tamil 

Nadu . 


All multi- uint industrial cooperative societies which 
are or are deeme 1 to be registered in Tamil Nadu . 


- 


- 


[ No . L/ THOLI 2/ 70 - Coord ] 
R. SRINIVASAN, Dy. Secy , 


( सहकारिता विभाग ) 


नई दिल्ली, 22 अगस्त , 1972 


का० प्रा० 3150. - - यह एकक सहकारिता पोसायटी अधिनियम 1942 ( 1942 का 6 ) को धारा 5 ख द्वारा 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के खान , कृषि, सामुदायिक विकास और महकारिता मंत्रालय ( महकारिता 
विभाग ) की 27 मार्च1971 की अधिस चना संख्या एल /11011 / 2 / 70 को प्रा० को अधिफ्रान्त करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार 
एतद्द्वारा निदेश देती है कि उन अधिनियम के अधीन केन्द्रीय रजिस्ट्रार सहकारी सोसाईटो द्वारा सोमनव्या प्राधिकार नीचे की मारणी 
के स्तम्भ ( 2 ) मैं विनिर्दिष्ट सरकारी सोसाइटियों के संबंध में उक्त सारणी के स्तम्भ ( 1 ) मैं की तत्माथानी प्रविष्टि मैं विनिदिष्ट 
अधिकारियों द्वारा भी निम्नलिखित शर्तों के अधीन रहने हुए प्रपोकाव्य होंगे , अर्थात् , : - - 

( 1 ) कि निम्नलिखित महकारी सोमाइटियों को बाबत इस प्रकार प्रत्या पोजिन शक्तियां और प्राधिकार उन अधिकारियों द्वारा 

केवल विवादों का निपटारा, अमोल पुनरीक्षण और पुनविनोकन प्रोर पंचाटों , विनिश्चयों, डिक्रिनों प्रोर प्रादेशों के निष्पादन 

से संबंधित मामलों के संबंध में प्रयोक्तव्य होंगे : 
1, अखिल भारतीय केन्द्रीय भूमि विकास बैंक महकारी संघ लिमिटेड , हैदराबाद, आन्ध्र प्रदेश । 
2. अखिल भारतीय राज्य सहकारी बैंक परिसंघ लिमिटेड, मुम्बई, महाराष्ट्र । 
3. भारतीय महकारी संघ लिमिटेड , दिल्ली । 
4. राष्ट्रीय कृषि सहकारी विपणन परिषद लिमिटेड, विल्ली । 
5. राष्ट्रीय सहकारी उपभोक्ता परिसंघ लिमिटेड दिल्ली । 
6. राष्ट्रीय सहकारी चीनी कारखाना परिसंघ लिमिटेड, दिल्ली । 


SEC. 3 (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29 , 1894 


_ _ 


4449 


4449 


7. राष्ट्रीय प्रौद्योगिक सहकारी परिसंघ लिमिटेड, दिल्ली । 
8. राष्ट्रीय सहकारी प्रावास परिसंघ लिमिटेड, दिल्ली । 


9 . भारतीय कृषक उर्वरक महकारी समिति लिमिटेड, दिल्ली । 


10. अखिल भारतीय सहकारी कताई मिल परिसंघ लि० , बम्बई । 


11. अखिल भारतीय प्रौद्योगिक सहकारी बैंक परिसंघ लि . , बंगलोर । 
12. भारतीय राष्ट्रीय सहकारी डेरी परिसंघ लि . , नई दिल्ली । 
( 2 ) उपरोक्त ( 1 ) में विनिर्दिष्ट मामलों ( अपील पुनरीक्षण और पुनविलोकन से भिन्न ) से संबंधित इस प्रकार प्रत्यायोकित शक्तियों 

और प्राधिकारों का प्रयोग करते हुए उक्त अधिकारी ऐमे निदेगों का अनुपालन करेंगे जैसे कि केन्द्रीय रजिस्ट्रार महकारी सोमाइटी 
द्वारा जारी किए जाएं । 

सारणी 


० संख्या 


अधिकारी 


बहरकक सहकारी मोसाइटियां 


1. आन्ध्र प्रदेश सहकारी सोपाइटी , अधिनियम , 1964 की धारा 3 वे सभी बहुएफक महकारी सोसाइटियां जो प्रान्ध्र प्रदेश राज्य 

के अधीन नियुक्त , प्रान्त्र प्रदेश राज्य के लिए रजिस्ट्रार सहकारी में वास्तविक रूप से रजिस्ट्रीकृत है या रजिस्ट्रीकृत समझी गई 

मोसाइटी । 
2. असम सहकारी सोमाइटी अधिनियम , 1949 की धारा 3 के अधीन वे समो वहएकक सहकारी सोमाइटियो जो असम राज्य में वास्त 

नियुक्त असम राज्य के लिए रजिस्ट्रार सहकारी सोसाइटी । विक रूप से रजिस्ट्रीकृत हैं या रजिस्ट्रीकृत समझी गई है । 
3. बिहार और उड़ीसा सहकारी सोसाइटी अधिनियम 1935 की धारा में सभी बहाएकक महकारी सोमाइटियां जो बिहार राज्य में 

6 के अधीन नियुक्त , बिहार राज्य के लिए रजिस्ट्रार वास्तविक रूप में रजिस्ट्रीकृत हैं या रजिस्ट्रीकृत समझी गई है । 

सहकारी सोसाइटी । 
4. गजरात सहकारी सोसाइटी अधिनियम , 1961 की धाग 3 के वे सभी बहएकक सहकारी सोमाइटियां जो गुजरात राज्य में 

अधीन नियुक्त गुजरात राज्य के लिए रजिस्ट्रार सहकारी वास्तविक रूप से रजिस्ट्रीकृत है या रजिस्ट्रीकृत समझी गई है । 

सोसाइटी । 
5. हरियाणा राज्य में यथाप्रवृत्त पंजाब सहकारी सोसाइटी अधिनियम , वे सभी बहुएकक सहकारी सोसाइटियां जो हरियाणा राज्य में 

1961 की धारा 3 के अधीन नियुक्त हरियाणा राज्य के लिए वास्तविक रूप से रजिस्ट्रीकृत हैं या रजिस्ट्रीकृत समझी 
रजिस्ट्रार सहकारी सोसाइटी । 

गई है । 
6. हिमाचल प्रदेश सहकारी सोसाइटी अधिनियम , 1956 की धाग 3 वे सभी बहुएफक सहकारी सोसाइटियां जो हिमाचल प्रदेश राज्य 

के अधीन नियुक्त , हिमाचल प्रदेश राज्य , के लिए रजिस्ट्रार में वास्तविक रूप से रजिस्ट्रीकृत है या रजिस्ट्रीकृत समझी गई है । 

सहकारी सोसाइटी । 
7. केरल सहकारी सोसाइटी अधिनियम , 1969 की धारा 3 के अधीन ये सभी बहएकक सहकारी सोमाइटियां जो केरल राज्य में वास्त 

नियुक्त केरल राज्य के लिए रजिस्ट्रार सहकारी सोमाइटी । विक रूप से रजिस्ट्रीकृत है या रजिस्ट्रीकृत समझी गई है । 
8. मध्य प्रदेश सहकारी सोसाइटी अधिनियम , 1960 की धारा 3 के वे सभी बहुएकक महकारी सोमाइटियां जो मध्य प्रदेश में वास्त 

अधीन नियुक्त मध्य प्रदेश राज्य के लिए रजिस्ट्रीकृत सहकारी विक रूप से रजिस्ट्रीकृत है या रजिस्ट्रीकृत समझी गई है । 
सोसाइटी । 
( i ) महाराष्ट्र सहकारी सोसाइटी अधिनियम , 1960 की धारा ) 
3 के अधीननियुक्त महाराष्ट्र राज्य के लिए रजिस्ट्रार सहकारी वे सभी बहुएकक महकारी सोसाइटियां जो महाराष्ट्र 
सोसाइटी । 

ए राज्य में वास्तविक रूप में रजिस्ट्रीकृत है या रजिस्ट्रीकृत 
( ii ) मण्डल संयुक्त रजिस्ट्रार सहकारी सोसाइटी, मुम्बई मण्डल | समझी गई है । 

मुम्बई । 
10. मैसूर सहकारी सोसाइटी अधिनियम , 1968 की धारा 2 क के ये सभी बहुए कक सहकारी सोसाइटियां जो मैसूर राज्य में वास्त 

अधीननि र राज्य के लिए रजिस्ट्रार सहकारी सोसाइटी । विक रूप से रजिस्ट्रीकृत है या रजिस्ट्रीकृत समझी गई है । 


4450 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29 . 1894 


( PART II - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


11 . उड़ीसा महकारी सोसाइटी अधिनियम , 1962 की धारा 3 के वे सभी बहुएकक सहकारी सोसाइटियां जो उड़ीसा राज्य में 

अधीन नियुक्त उड़ीसा राज्य के लिए रजिस्ट्रार सहकारी सोसाइटी वास्तविक रूप से रजिस्ट्रीकृत है या रजिस्ट्रीकृत समझी गई । 
12. पंजाब सहकारी सोसाइटी अधिनियम , 1961 की धारा 3 के अधीन वे सभी बहुएकक सहकारी मोमाइटियां जो पंजाब राज्य में 

नियुक्त पंजाब राज्य के लिए रजिस्ट्रार सहकारी मोसाइटी । वास्तविक रूप में रजिस्ट्रीकृत हैं या रजिस्ट्रीकृत समझो गई है । 
13. राजस्थान सहकारी सोसाइटी अधिनियम , 1965 की धारा 3 के वे सभी बहएकक सहकारी सोमाइटियां जो राजस्थान राज्य 

अधीन नियत राजस्थान राज्य के लिए रजिस्ट्रार सहकारी में वास्तविक रूप से रजिस्ट्रीकृत या रजिस्ट्रीकृत समझी गई 

सोसाइटी । 
14. ( i ) तामिल नार सहकारी सोसाइटी अधिनियम , 1961 की ] 

धारा 3 के अधीन नियुक्त , तामिल नाडू, राज्य के लिए रजिस्ट्रार | वेसभी बहुएकक सहकारी सोसाइटियां जो तामिल नार राजा 
सहकारी सोसाइटी । 

में वास्तविक रूप से रजिस्ट्रीकृत हैं या रजिस्ट्रीकृत समझी 
( ii ) संयुक्त रजिस्ट्रार, सहकारी सोसाइटी ( सधन कृषि क्षेत्र । गई हैं । 

कार्यक्रम ) तामिल नाड , मद्रास । 
15. उत्तर प्रदेश सहकारी सोसाइटी , अधिनियम , 1965 की धारा 3 वे सभी बहएकक सहकारी सोसाइटिया जो उत्तर प्रदेश राज्य में 

के अधीन नियुक्त , उत्तर प्रदेश राज्य के लिए रजिस्ट्रार सहकारी वास्तविक रूप से रजिस्ट्रीकृत है या रजिस्ट्रीकृत समझी गई है । 
सोसाइटी । 
( i ) बंगाल सहकारी सोसाइटी अधिनियम , 1940 की धारा 9 
के अधीन नियक्त पश्चिमी बंगाल राज्य के लिए रजिस्ट्रार सह । सभीबदएकक सहकारी सोसाइटियां जो पश्चिमीबंगाल राज्य 
कारी सोसाइटी । 

में वास्तविक रूप से रजिस्ट्रीकृत है या रजिस्ट्रीकृत समझी गई है 
(ii) प्रपर रजिस्ट्रार सहकारी सोसाइटी , पश्चिमो बंगाल , कलकत्ता । ) . 
17 . पंजाब सहकारी सोसाइटी अधिनियम , 1961 जैसा चन्डीगढ़ राज्य के सभी बहुएकक सहकारी सोसाइटियां जो बडीगढ़ राज्य क्षेत्र 

क्षेत्र में प्रवत्त हैं , की धारा 3 के अधीन नियुक्त चंडीगढ़ के लिए में वास्तविक रूप से रजिस्ट्रीकृत हैं या रजिस्ट्रीकृत समझी 

रजिस्ट्रार सहकारी सोसाइटी । 
18. दिल्ली र यथा विस्तारित मम्बई सहकारी सोसाइटी अधिनियम , वे सभी बहुएकक सहकारी सोसाइटियां जो दिल्ली संघ राज्य 

1925 की धारा 4 के अधीन नियुक्त दिल्ली के लिए रजिस्ट्रार क्षेत्र में वास्तविक रूप से रजिस्ट्रीकृत हैं या रजिस्ट्रीकृत समझी 
सहकारी सोसाइटी । 

गई है । 
10 गोवा , दमन और द्वीप संघ राज्य क्षेत्र में लाग महाराष्ट्र सहकारी वे सभी बहुएकक सहकारी सोसाइटियां जो गोवा , दमन और द्वीव 

सोसाइटी अधिनियम 1960 की धारा 3 के अधीन नियुक्त सघ राज्य क्षेत्र में वास्तविक रूप से रजिस्ट्रीकृत हैं या रजिस्ट्री 

गोपा , दमन और दीव के लिए रजिस्ट्रार सहकारी सोसाइटी । कृत समझी गई हैं । 
0 मणिपर पर यथा विस्तारित असम सहकारी सोसाइटी अधिनियम , वे सभी बहुएफक सहकारी सोसाइटियां जो मणिपुर संघ राज्य 

1949 की धारा 3 के अधीन नियुक्त मणिपुर के लिए रजिस्ट्रार क्षेत्र में वास्तविक रूप से रजिस्ट्रीकृत हैं या रजिस्ट्रीकृत समझी 

सहकारी सोसाइटी । 
21. पांडिचेरी सहकारी सोसाइटी अधिनियम, 1965 की धारा 3 के वे सभी बहुएकक सहकारी सोसाइटियां जो पांडिचेरी संघ राज्य 

अधीन नियुक्त पांडिचेरी के लिए रजिस्ट्रार सहकारी सोसाइटो । क्षेत्र में वास्तविक रूप से रजिस्ट्रोकृत हैं या रजिस्ट्रीकृत समझी 


22. त्रिपुरा पर यथा विस्तारित मुम्बई सहकारी सोसाइटी अधिनियम , वे सभी बहुएकक सहकारी सोसाइटियां जो त्रिपुरा संघ राज्य 

1923 की धारा 4 के अधीन नियुक्त त्रिपुरा के लिए रजिस्ट्रार क्षेत्र में वास्तविक रूप से रजिस्ट्रीकृत हैं या रजिस्ट्रीकृत समझी 

सहकारी सोसाइटो । 
23. i ) निदेशक उद्योग और वाणिज्य , सामिल नाडु । वे सभी बहएकक सहकारी सोसाइटियां जो तामिल नाडु में वास्त 
( ii ) संयुक्त निदेशक उद्योग और वाणिज्य तामिल नाड़ । विक रूप से रजिस्ट्रोकृत हैं या रजिस्ट्रीकृत समझी गई है । 

[ सं एल 11011 /2/ 70-को प्रा ] 
प्रार० श्रीनिवासन , उप सचिव । 


SEC. 3(ii)] 


4451 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


( 3 ) ( 1 ) कानपुर के उन क्षेत्रों परजिन्हें केन्द्रीय सरकार 
समय समय पर इस बारे में आदेश जारी कर निर्दिष्ट करे ; 


( 2 ) संघीय सरकार के कार्यों मम्बन्धी सेवा कार्य 
करने वाले उन सभी व्यक्तियों पर जो कानपुर में नियुक्त हों और 
जिनके वहां पर मुख्य कार्यालय हों और जो उपर्यत क्षेत्रों में 
रहते हैं । 

ये नियम लागू होंगे 


परन्तु केन्द्रीय सरकार प्रादेश जारी कर किसी श्रेणी अथवा 
वर्ग के व्यक्तियों को इन नियमों की परिधि से अलग कर सकती है । 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING 

(Department of Health ) 

New Delhi, the 6th July 1972 
S . O . 3151. -.-In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the proviso to article 309 and clause ( 5 ) of article 148 
of the Constitution and after consultation with th : 
Comptroller and Auditor General in relation to persons 
serving in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, 
the President hereby makes the following rules . 
namely : -- 
___ 1 . Short title , commencement and extent. --- ( I ) These 
rules may be called the Central Government Health 
Scheme, ( Kanpur ) Rules , 1972 . 

( 2 ) They shall come into force on the 17th July , 1972 . 
( 3 ) They shall extend to:---- 
( i ) such areas in Kanpur as the Central Govern 

ment may , from time to time, by order rnade i: 

this behalf, specify ; 
( ii) all persons serving in connection with the 

affairs of the Union stationed and having their 
headquarters at Kanpur and residing in the 

areas aforesaid . 
Provided that the Central Government may , by 

order , exclude any class or category of persons 

from the scope of these rules . 
2 . Instructions relating to Delhi, Bombay , Allahabad , 
Meerut and Calcutta Schome to apply to Kanpur, — No ! 
withstanding anything contained in the Secretary of 
States Services ( Medical Attendance ) Rules , 1938 . the 
Central Services (Medical Attendance ) Rules , 1944 , or 
the All India Services (Medical Attendance ) Rules, 
1954 , the instructions issued from time to time by the 
Central Government relating to the Central Govern 
ment Health Scheme as in force in Delhi, Bombay . 
Allahabad , Meerut and Calcutta shall apply mutatis 
mutandis in respect of persons mentioned in clause 
( ii ) of suh - rule ( 3 ) of rule 1 ; 

Provided that the Central Government may, from 
time to time, by order made in this behalf , modify the 
said Scheme in so far as it is applicable to Kanpur. 


2 . दिल्ली , बम्बई , इलाहाबाद, मेरठ और कलकत्ता 
योजना सम्बन्धी अनदेगों का कानपर पर लाग होता 
मक्रेटरी ग्रांव स्टेटस मविसज ( चिकित्मा परिचर्या ) नियमानी 
1938 केन्द्रीय संवाए ( चिकिन्मा परिचया ) नियमावला 
1944 अथवा अखिल भारतीय नंबर ( चकित्मा परिचर्या) 
नियमावली 1954 में निहित किमी भी बात के होते हुए भी 
केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा केन्द्रीय सरकार स्वास्थय योजना के बारे में 
समय समय पर जारी किये गये अन देश जैसे कि दिल्ली , बम्बई 
इलाहाबाद मेरठ और कलकता में लागू हैं । 


पावश्यक परिवर्तन महित नियम 1 के उप नियम ( 3 ) 
के खण्ड ( 2 ) में निर्दिष्ट व्यक्तियों पर लागू होंगें । 

परन्तु केन्द्रीय सरकार समय समय पर इस बारे में प्रादेश 
जारी कर उक्त योजना में जहां तक वह कानपुर में संबंधित है , 
सशोधन कर सकती है । 


[ सं० पत्र 24-- 12/ 71 -के० स्वा० यो० ( नीति ) ] 


[ No. F.24-12/ 71-CGHS ( P) .] 


New Delhi, the 15th Julv. 1972 


स्वास्थय और परिवार नियोजन मंत्रालय 


( स्वास्थ्य विभाग ) 


S . O . 3152 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the proviso to article 309 and clause ( 5 ) of article 148 
of the Constitution and after consultation with the 
Comptroller and Auditor General in relation to persons 
serving in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, 
the President hereby makes the following rules 
namely : 


___ 1, Short title, commencervent and extent. - ( I ) These 
rules nay be called the Central Government Health 
Scheme ( Calcutla) Rules . 1972 . 

2. They shall come into force on the 1st August, 1972. 
3 . They shall extend to : 


नई दिल्ली 6 जुलाई 1972 
एम० प्रो० 3151:---- मंविधान के अनुच्छेद 309 
के परन्तुक तथा अनुन्छेद 148 के खण्ड ( 5) द्वारा प्रदन शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारतीय लेखा परीक्षा और लेखा विभाग 
में कार्य करने वाले व्यक्तियों के संबंध में नियंत्रक और महालेखा 
परीक्षक से परार्मश करने के पश्चात राष्ट्रपति एतद्दवारा 
निम्नलिखित नियम बनाते हैं अर्थात : - - 

1 . संक्षिप्त शीर्षक प्रारम्भ और कार्य क्षेत्र .-- ( 1) ये 
नियम केन्द्रीय सरकारी स्वास्थय योजना ( कानपुर ) नियमावली 
1972 कहलाये जायें । 

( 2 ) ये 17 जुलाई 1972 से लागू होंगे । 


( I) such areas in Calcutta as the Central Govern 

ment may , from time to time, by order made 
___ in this behalt , specify ; 


( il) all persons serving in connection with the 

affairs of the Union stationed and having their 
headquarters at Calcutta and residing in the 
areas aforesaid ; 


Provided that the Central Government may by 
order , exclude any, class or category of persons from 
the scope of these ruleg . 


4452 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / AŞVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART 


- 


New Delhi, the 17th August 1972 


2 . Instructions relating to Delhi, Bombay , Allahabad , 
Meerut and Kanpur Scheme to apply to Calcutta -Not 
withstanding anything contained in the Secretary of 
States Services (Medical Attendance ) Rules 1938 , the 
Central Services (Medical Attendance) Rules . 1944, or 
the All India Services (Medical Attendance ) Rules , 1954 
the instructions issued from time to timeby theGovern 
ment of India relating to the Central Government 
Health Scheme as in force in Delhi , Bombay , Allah 
bad . Meerut and Kanpur, shall apply mutatis mutandis 
in respect of persons mentioned in sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule . 

Provided that the Central Government may , from 
tinme to time, by order made in this behalf , modify the 
said Scheme in so far as it is applicable to Calcutta . 

[ No. F. 24-5 / 70- OGHS ( P). ] 


S . 0 . 3153. - - Whereas in pursuance of the provisions 
of clause ( b ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 3 of the Indian 
Medical Council Act, 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ), Dr. Ramanlal 
K . Desai, MD. DTM & H ( London) , FCCP, FICA, ( New 
York ). Konpith . Sural- 1 , has been elected by the Soutl 
Gujrat University to be a member of the Medica 
Council of India with effect from the 8th September , 
1972 ; 


Now , therefore , in pursuance of the provisions of 
slib -section ( 1 ) of section 3 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby directs that Dr, Raman ) al K . 
Desai, whose name appears at Serial No . 36 under the 
heading elected under clause ( b ) of sub-section ( 1 ) of 
section 3 in the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Health, No. F . 5 -13 / 59 - MI , dated 
the 9th January , 1960, shall continue to be a member 
of the Medical Council of India for a further period 
of five years or until his successor is elected , which 
ever is longer with effect from the 8th September , 
1972. 

[ No. F. 4 -33 / 71 - MPT . ] 
P . C. ARORA. Under Secy . 


नई दिल्ली, 15 जलाई, 1972 
का० प्रा० 3152. - -नंविधान के अनुच्छेद 309 के 
परन्तुक और अनुच्छेद 148 के खंड ( 5 ) द्वारा 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए और भारतीय 
लेखा परीक्षा और लेखा विभाग में काम करने वाले कर्मचारियों 
के सम्बन्ध में नियंत्रक और महालेखाकार मे पगमर्श करने के पश्चात् 
राष्ट्रपति एतद्द्वारा निम्नलिखित नियम बनाते हैं , नामत : 

1. संक्षिप्त शीपक , प्रारम्भ और मीमा . - - ( 1 ) ये 
नियम केन्द्रीय स्वास्थ्य योजना ( कलकत्ता ) नियमावली , 
1972 कहे जायं । 

( 2 ) ये 1 अगस्त, 1972 में लागू होंगे । 
( 3 ) इमकी मीमा इस प्रकार होगी । 
(i ) कलकत्ता के ऐसे क्षेत्र जिन्हें केन्द्रीय सरकार 

समय समय पर आदेश जारी करके विनिर्दिष्ट 

करें ; 
( ii ) केन्द्र सम्बन्धी कार्यों में लगे सभी व्यक्ति 

तथा जिनके मख्यालय कलकत्ता में हैं और 
जो उक्त भत्रों में रह रहे हैं ; 


नई दिल्ली , 17 अगस्त , 1972 
का० प्रा० 3153. यत : भारतीय चिकित्मा परिषद् 
अधिनियम 1956 ( 1956 का 102 ) की धारा 3 
की उप -धारा ( 1 ) के खंड ( ख ) के अनुसरण में , 
डा० रमनलाल के० देसाई, एम० डी० , डी०टी०एम०एड० 
एच० ( लन्दन ) , एफ०सी०पी०, एफ० आई०सी० ए० ( न्यूयार्क ) , 
कानपीथ , मूरत - 1 को दक्षिण गजगत विश्वविद्यालय द्वारा 8 
मितम्बर , 1972 से भारतीय चिकित्सा परिषद का मदम्यनिर्वाचित 
किया गया है । 


बपत केन्द्रीय सरकार किसी आदेश द्वारा लोगो के किमी वर्ग 
अथवा श्रेणी को इन नियमों की परिधि से अलग न करे । 

2. दिल्ली, बम्बई, इलाहाबाद, मेरठ और कानपुर योजना 
में सम्बन्धित हिदायतं कलकत्ता पर लाग होंगी । राज्य सचिव 
मेवाएं ( चिकित्सा परिचर्या) नियमावली 1938 केन्द्रीय मेवाएं 


अत : अब उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 3 की उप -धारा ( 1 ) 
के उपबंधों का अनुसरण करते हुए केन्द्रीय मरकार एतद्वारा निदेश 
देती है कि डा . रमनलाल के० देसाई, जिनका नाम भारत सरकार 
के स्वास्थय मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना संख्या एफ० 5 - 13/ 59-चि . I 
दिनांक 9 जनवरी, 1960 में धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खंड 
( ख ) के अधीन निर्वाचित शीर्षक के अन्तर्गत क्रम संख्या 36 पर 
उल्लिखित है 8 सितम्बर , 1972 से आगे और पांच वर्ष की अवधि 
तक अथवा जब तक उनके उत्तराधिकारी का निर्वाचन नहीं हो जाता , 
जो भी बाद में हो , बने रहेगे । 

[ सं० फ० 4 - 33/ 71- एम०पी०टी० ] 


प्रकाश चन्द्र अरोरा , अवर सचिव । 


( Department of Health ) 


New Delhi, the 10th August 1972 


मेवाएं (चिकित्सा परिचर्या ) नियमावली , 1954 के रहते हए 
दिल्ली , बम्बई, इलाहाबाद , मेरठ और कानपुर में चल रही केन्द्रीय 
स्वास्थ्य योजना के सम्बन्ध में केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा समय समय 
पर जारी की गयी हिदायत इम नियम के उप नियम ( 3 ) मे विहित 
लोगो पर आवश्यक परिवर्तन सहित लागू होगी । 

परन्तु केन्द्रीय सरकार समय सबय पर इम सम्बन्ध में बनाये 
गये आदेश द्वारा कलकत्ता से सम्बन्धित इस योजना में परिवर्तन 
कर सकती है । 

[ सं० एफ० 24- 5/ 70-के स्वा०यो० ( नीति ) ] 


S . O . 8154 , — Whereas the Central Government have 
in pursuance of the provisions of clause (1 ) of section 
3 of the Dentists Act, 1948 ( 16 of 1948 ) nominated the 
following persons to be members of the Dental Council 
of India with effect from the 5th August , 1972 : 
1 . Dr. Vimala Sud , BDS, MSD , Professor of Dental 

Surgery, Jawaharlal Institute of Post -graduate 
Medical Education and Research , Pondicherry 


SEC . 3(ii)]] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4453 


- 


- - - - - - - 
2. Major General R . N . Dogra , Director, Dental 

Health Services , Army Medical Directorate , 
New Delhi. 


3 . Dr. J . D . Kapadia , BDS, FICD, President , Indian 

Dental Association, " Nataraj , 25 , Luz Church 

Road , Mylapore , Madras- 4 . 
4 . Dr. S . P. Gupta , C - 6, Vivekanandpuram, 

ILucknow . 


अनः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 3 का अनुसरण करते 
हए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदवाग भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व स्वास्थय 
मंत्रालय की अधिसुचना मं० एफ० 3 - 2/ 62 -एम . II दिनांक 17, 
अक्टूबर , 1962 में आगे और निम्नलिखित संशोधन करती है , 
नामतः - -- 


Now , therefore, in pursuance of section 3 of the said 
Act , the Central Government hereby makes the follow 
ing further amendment in the notification of the Goy 
ernment of India in the late Ministry of Health No . 
F .3 - 2 / 62-MII , dated the 17th October . 1962, namely : 


उक्त अधिसूचना में "धारा 3 के खण्ड ( च ) के अन्तर्गत 
मनोतीन " शीर्षमें क्रम संख्या 2 3, 4, और 5 की प्रविष्टियों के लिए 
निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टियां रखी जाएंगी, नामत: - - 


2 . डा० विमला सद, बो० डी० एम० , एम० एम० डोस , 

दन्त शल्य चिकित्मा के प्राध्यापक , 
जवाहरलाल स्नात्तकोत्तर चिकित्मा शिक्षा 
अनमंधान संस्थान , पाण्डिचेरी । 


2. Dr. nan surmedical 


In the said notification , under the heading " Nomi 
nated under clause ( f ) " of section 3, for the entries 
against serial Nos. 2 , 3 , 4 and 5 , the following entries 
shall be substituted , namely : 
2 . Dr. Virmala Sud , BDS, MSD, Professor of 

Dental Surgery , Jawaharlal Institute of Post 
graduate Medical Education and Research , 

Pondicherry . 
3. Major General R . N . Dogra, Director, Dental 

Health Services , Army Medical Directorate , 

New Delhl. 
4 . Dr. J. D . Kapadia , BDS, FICD , President , Indian 
___ Dental Association, Nataraj . 25 , Luz Church 

Road , Mylapore , Madras -4 . 
5 . Dr. S . P . Gupta , C -6 , Vivekanandpuram , 

Lucknow . 


3 . मेजर जनरल पार० एन० डोगरा , 

निदेशक , दन्त स्वास्थय सेवाएं , 
सशस्त्र सेना चिकित्मा निदेशालय , नई दिल्ली । 


4 . डा० जे० डी० कपाडिया , बी० डी० एम० , 

एफ० आई० सी० डी०, अध्यक्ष , भारतीय दन्त मंघ , 
नटराज , 25 , लूज चर्च रोड , मैलापोर, 
मद्रास - 4 । 


[ No. V . 12013/ 3 / 72 - MPT .] 
V . S . TALWAR, Dy . Secy . 


5 . डा० एम० पी० गुप्ता , 

सी - 6, विवेकानन्दपुरम, लखनऊ । 


( स्वास्थय विभाग ) 


नई दिल्ली, 10 अगस्त , 1972 


[ संख्या पत्र : बी० 120 13/ 3/ 72--एम० पी० टी० ] 


वो० एस० तलवाड़ , उप मचिव । 


एम० प्रो० 3154. - - यत : दन्त चिकित्सा अधिनियम , 
1948 ( 1948 का 16 ) की धारा 3 के खण्ड ( च ) के उपबन्धों 
का अनुसरण करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एनद्वारा 5 अगस्त , 
1972 से निम्नलिखित व्यक्तियों को भारत की दन्त चिकित्मा 
परिषद का सदस्य मनोनीत करती है : 


1 . डा० विमला सूद , बी० डी० एम० , एम० एम० डी० , 

दन्न शल्य चिकित्मा के प्राध्यापक , 
जवाहरलाल स्नात्तकोतर चिकित्सा शिक्षा 
और अस संधान संस्थान , पाण्डिचेरी । 


2 . मेजर जनरल पार० एन० डोगरा , 

निदेशक, दन्त स्वास्थय सेवाएं , 
मशस्त्र सेना चिकित्मा निदेशालय नई दिल्ली । 


(Department of Health ) 
New Delhi, the 7th September 1972 
S . O . 3185 . — In pursuance of clause ( d ) of rule 2 
of the Indian Medical Council Rules, 1957 , and in 
supersession of the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Health , Family Planning , 
Works, Housing and Urban Development (Department 
of Health) No. 4 - 17 / 68- MPT , dated the 24th March, 
1971, the Central Government hereby appoints Dr. 
H . N. S . Grewal , Deputy Director , Health, Regional 
Omce, Patiala as Returning Officer for the conduct of 
election of a member under clause ( c ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 3 of the Indian Medical Council Act , 
1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) in the State of Punjab. 

[ No. F . 4 - 27 / 71 - MPr. ] 
( स्वास्थ्य विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली , 7 सितम्बर, 1972 
का० प्रा० 3155. --- भारतीय चिकित्सा पपिद की 
नियमावली , 1957 के नियम 2 के भाग 
( घ ) का अनुसरण करते हुए तथा भारत सरकार के 
स्वास्थ्य , परिवार नियोजन , निर्माण और प्रावास , और नगर 


3 . डा० जे० डी० कपाडिया बी०डी० एम० , एफ० आई० 

सी०डी० , अध्यक्ष भारतीय दन्त संघ , नटराज 
25, लूज चर्च रोड, मैलापोर मद्राम - 4 


4 . डा० एस० पी० गुप्ता , 

सी - 6, विवेकानन्दपुरम, लखनऊ । 


4454 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II 


the following serial number and entries shall be 
inserted , namely :- - 
" 46. Dr. C . K . Jayarama Panicker, Professor of 
Bacteriology , Medical College, Calicut - 8 " 

[ No. 4 -33 / 71 - MPT .] 


विकास मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना सं० 4 - 17 / 68 - एम०पी०टी० 
दिनांक 24 मार्च, 1971 का निवर्नन करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार 
एतद्द्वारा डा० एच० एन० एम० ग्रेवाल , उपनिदेशक स्वास्थ्य 
प्रादेशिक कार्यालय पटियाला को पंजाब राज्य में भारतीय चिकित्सा 
परिषद अधिनियम , 1956 ( 1956 का 102 ) की धारा 3 की 
उपधारा ( 1 ) के भाग ( ग ) के अन्तर्गत एक सदस्य का चुनाव 
करने हेतु निर्वाचन अधिकारी के रूप में नियुक्त करती है । 

[ सं० प० : 4 - 27/ 71 - एम० पी० टी० ] 


का० प्रा० 3157. --- यत : भारतीय चिकित्सा 
परिषद अधिनियम , 1956 ( 1956 का 102 ) 
की धारा 3 की उप -धारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( ख ) के 
उपबन्धों का अनुसरण करते हुए कालीकट विश्वविद्यालय ने 
मेडिकल कालेज , कलकत्ता - 8 के जीवाणु विज्ञान के प्राध्यापक 
डा० सी० के० जयराम पणिकर को 19 मई, 1972 से भारतीय 
चिकित्सा परिषद का सदस्य निर्वाचित किया है । 


New Delhi, the 8th September 1972 
S .O . 3156. - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - section ( 2 ) of section 11 of the Indian Medical 
Council Act, 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) , the Central Govern 
ment, after consulting the Medical Council of India , 
hereby makes the following further amendment in 
the First Schedule to the said Act, namely : 

In the said Schedule , after the entry relating to the 
South Gujarat University , the following entry shall 
be inserted, namely : 

“ Meerut Bachelor of M .B . B . S . Meerut" 
University Medicine and 

Bachelor of 
Surgery 

[ No. V. 11015 / 30 / 72- MPT.] 
नई दिल्ली , 8 सितम्बर 1972 


अतः, अत्र , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 3 को उपधारा ( 1 ) 
के उपबन्धों का अनुसरण करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा 
भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व स्वास्थ्य मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना संख्या 
5 - 13/ 59 -चि०, दिनांक 9 जनवरी, 1960 में आगे और 
निम्नलिखित संशोधन करती है, अर्थात् : -- 

उक्त अधिसूचना में , "धारा 3 को उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड 
( ख ) के अधीन निर्वाचिन " शीर्ष के अन्तर्गत क्रम नंख्या 45 और 
नत्मम्बन्धित प्रविष्टियों के बाद निम्नलिखित क्रम संख्या और 
प्रविष्टियां रखली जायें : - - 


" 46. डा० सो० के० जयराम पणिकर , 
जीवाणु -विज्ञान प्राध्यापक , 
मेडिकल कालेज , कालीकट , - 8. 

[ सं० प० 4 - 33/ 71 -एम०पी०टी० ] 


क्यू०एम० एच० जिन्जानो , उस सचिव । 


का० प्रा० 3156. - - भारतीय चिकित्मा परिषद अधि 
नियम , 1956 ( 1956 का 102) की धाग 11 की उप -धारा ( 2 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार भारतीय 
चिकित्सा परिषद से परामर्श करने के पश्चात् एतद्द्वारा उक्त 
अधिनियम की प्रथम अनुसूची में आगे और मंशोधन करती है ; 
अर्थात - - 

उक्त अन्सूची में , दक्षिण गुजरात विश्वविद्यालय से सम्बन्धित 
प्रविष्टि के बाद निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टि रख लो जाय ; अर्थात : --- 
"मेरट विश्वविद्यालय वैचलर ऑव एम ०बी०बी०एस० मेरठ 

मेडिसिन एण्ड 
बैचलर गांव 

सर्जरी 
[ सं०प०वी० 11015/ 30/ 72- एम०पी०टी० ] 


ORDERS 


New Delhi, the 22nd August , 1972 . 


S . O . 3158 . - Whereas by the notification of the Go 
vernment of India in the late Ministry of Health No. 
15 - 1 / 62- MI , dated the 26th July. 1962 . the Central Go 
* *ernment has directed that the Medical qualification , 
N .D ., C . M . awarded by the University of Mcgill, Mon 
tereal, Canada shall be a recognised medical qualifica 
tion for the purposes of the Indian Medical Council 
Act, 1956 (102 of 1956 ) ; 


And whereas Dr. Cecilia Leslie Kuloy , who possesses 
the said qualification and who is also registered as a 
medical practitioner in her own country is for the time 
being attached to the Holy Family Hospital, New Delhi 
for the purposes of charitable work ; 


S . O . 3157. - Whereas in pursuance of the provisions 
of clause (b ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 3 of the In 
dian Medical Council Act , 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) , Dr. C . K . 
Jayarama Panicker , Professor of Bacteriology, Medi 
cal College , Calicut- 8 , has been elected by the Uni 
versity of Calicut, to be a member of the Medical 
Council of India with effect from the 19th May , 1972 ; 

Now , therefore in pursuance of the provisions of 
sub -section ( 1 ) of sectiori 3 of the said Act, the Cen 
tral Government hereby makes the following further 
amendment in the notification of the Government of 
India in the late Ministry of Health No. 5 - 13 /59 -MI, 
dated the 9th January , 1960 , namely : 

In the said notification , under the heading " Elected 
under clause (b ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 3 ” , 
after serial No. 45 and the entries relating thereto , 


Now , therefore , in pursuance of the proviso to sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 14 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby specifies 
( i) a period of two years from the date of publica 

tion of this Order in the Official Gazette, or 
(ii) the period during which Dr. Cecilia Leslie Kuloy 

is attached to the said Holy Family Hospital, 
New Delhi whichever is shorter , as the period 


SEC . 3( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972 ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4455 


- - - 


_ _ 


- - 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


to which the medical practice by the aforesaid 
cortor shall be limited . 

[ No. F . 19 -30 / 71- MPT .] 


( ii) the period during which Dr. Walter Gilary And 

erson is attached to the said Masini Sewa Man 
dal. Malwa Church Council, Ratlam , whichever 
Is shorter , as the period to which the medical 


प्रादेण 


[ No. V. 11016 / 15 / 72 - MFT. ] 


नई दिलली. 26 अगस्त , 1972 


नई दिल्ली , 22 अगस्त , 1972, 
एम० प्रो : 158 --- अन भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व स्वास्थ्य 
मंत्रालय के 26 अलाई . 197 की अधिसूचना मं० 16 - 1 ) 
12- चि - 1 द्वारा केन्द्रीय सरकार ने निदेश दिया है कि भारतीय 
चिकित्मा परि - पद अधिनियम , 1956 ( 1956 का 102 ) के 
प्रपोजनों के लिए यनिनिटो प्राव भोगिन , मोटोरल द्वारा प्रदान 
एम० डी० मो०एम० चिकित्मा ग्रहना मात्य चिकिमा अर्हता 


एम० ग्रो० 3 159. - यत : भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व स्वास्थ्य 
मंत्रालय की 1 अप्रैल, 1960 को अधिसूचना सं० 17- 2/ 59 
एम० प्राई द्वारा केन्द्रीय सरकार ने निदेश दिया है कि भारतीय 
चिकित्मा परिपद अधिनियम , 1956 ( 1956 का 102) के 
प्रयोजना के लिए टोरान्टी विश्वविद्यालय , कनाडा द्वारा प्रदान 
" एम०ट्रो० " नामक चिकित्मा अर्हता मान्य चिकित्मा अर्हता होगी ; 


होगी ; 


और यन . डा० मेनिलिया नेस्त्री कलाई को जिनके पान उक्त 
अहना है तथा जो पंजीकृत चिकित्मक भी है और जो धर्मार्थ कार्य 
के प्रयोजनों के लिए फिलहाल होलो फमिली अस्पताल , नई दिल्ली 
के माथ मम्बन्ध है । 


और यत : डा . वाटर गिलेरी एन्डरसन को जिमके पास 
जन अहता है तथा जो अपने देश में भी एक चिकित्मक के रूप में 
पंजीकृत हैं शिक्षा और धर्मार्थ कार्य के प्रयोजनों के लिए फिलहाल 
मामही मेवा मण्डल , माल्वा चर्च कौंसिल , रतलाम , मध्य प्रदेश के 
माथ सम्बद्ध हैं । 


और अब , उक्न अधिनियम को धारा - 4 को उपधारा ( 1 ) 
के परन्तक के भाग ( ग ) का पालन करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार 
एतदद्वाग - - 

( 1 ) मरकारी राजपत्र में प्रकाशित होने की तिथि से 

दो वर्ष की अवधि तक अथवा 
( 2 ) उस अवधि को जब तक ट्रा० सेमिलिया लेस्ली 

कुलाई होली फेमिली अस्पताल , नई दिल्ली के 
साथ सम्बद्ध रहते हैं , जो भी कम हो वह अवधि 
विनिर्दिष्ट करती है , जिसमें पूर्वाक्त डा० मेडिकल 
प्रक्टिम कर सकेगे । 

[ सं० प० उफ . 19 - 39 / 71-एमपी टो० ] 


अतः, अव , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 14 की उपधारा ( 1 ) 
के परन्तक के भाग ( ग ) का पालन करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार 
एतद्द्वारा : 
( 1 ) 19 मार्च, 1972 से आगे 2 वर्ष की अवधि को 

अथवा 
( 2 ) उम अवधि को जब तक डा . वाल्टरगिलेरी एन्डरसन , 

ममिही मेवा मण्डल, माल्वा चर्च कौसिल, रतलाम 
के माथ सम्बद्ध रहते है , जो भी कम हो वह अवधि 
विनिर्दिष्ट करती है, जिममे पूर्वोक्त डा० मैडिकल 
प्रक्टिम कर मकेगे । 
[ सं० पत्र : वो 11016/ 15/ 72-एम० पो टो० ] 


New Delhi, the 8th September 1972 
S . O . 3160. - Whercas by the notification of the 
Government of India in the late Ministry of Health 
No. S . O . 2446 dated the 23rd July , 1962, the Central 
Government las directed that the Medical qualifica 
tion , " M . D ." granted by the University of George 
town, Washington , shall be a recognised medical qua 


New Delhi, the 26th August, 1972 
S . O . 3159. — Whcrcas 3y the notification of the 
Governinent of India in the late Ministry of Health No . 
17 -2 / 59- II, dated the 1st April, 1960, the Central 
Government has directed that the Medical qualification , 
" NI. D . " granted by the University of Toronto , Canada 
shall be a recognised medical qualification for the pur 
Poses of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 ( 102 of 
1956 ) ; 

And whereas Dr. Walter Gilary Anderson , who posses 
ses the said qualification and who is also unroled as 
medical practitioners in his own country is for the time 
being attached to the Masini sewa Mandal, Malwa 
Church Council, Ratlam , Madhya Pradesh for the pur 
poses of teaching and charitable work ; 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of clause ( c ) of the 
Proviso to sub - section ( 1 ) of section 14 of the said Act , 
The Central Government hereby specifies . 

( i) a further period of two years with effect from 

___ the 19th March, 1972 . or 


Council Act, 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) ; 

And Whereas Dr. Eileen Niedfield , who possesses 
the said qualification and is registered as mcdical 
cractioner in her own country, is for the time being 
Fttached to the Holy Family Hospital , Mandar, 
Ranchi District , for the purposes of teaching, re 
search and charitable work ; 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of clause ( c ) of the 
proviso to sub- section ( 1 ) of section 14 of the said 
Act, the Central Government hereby specifles 
(i) a further period cnding with the 31st Decem 

ber, 1972, or 


4556 


- . 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 

[ PART II .... 
3 . - - - 

- - - - - 
( ii ) the period during which Dr. Eilcen 
Niedfield is attached to the said Holy Family 

( 2 ) उस अवधि को अब तक डा० ईलीन नीडफील्ड होली 
Hospital, Mandar, Ranchi District, whichever 
is shorter , as the period to which the medical फेमिली हास्पिटल, मन्दर , जिला रांची के साथ सम्बद्ध रहते हैं , 
practice by the aforesaid doctor shall be 
limited . 

जो भी कम हो , वह अवधि विनिर्दिष्ट करती है , जिसमें पूर्वोक्त 
[ No. V . 11016 / 17 / 72 - MPT. ] डा० मेडिकल प्रैक्टिस कर सकेंगे । 
Q . M . H . ZINJANI, Dy. Secy . 

[ सं०प०वी० 11016/ 17/ 72- एम०पी०टी०] 
नई दिल्ली , 8 सितम्बर, 1972 

[ क्यू ० एम० एच० जिन्जारो उप सचिव ] 
का० प्रा० 3160.-.- यतः भारत सरकार के 
भूतपूर्व स्वास्थ्य मंत्रालय की 23 जुलाई , 1962 

MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND SOCIAL WELFARE 
की अधिसूचना सं० 2446 एस०प्रो० द्वारा केन्द्रीय सरकार 
ने निदेश दिया है कि भारतीय चिकित्सा परिषद् अधिनियम , 

(Archaeological Survey of India ) 
1956 ( 1956 का 102) के प्रयोजनों के लिए य निवर्सिटी श्राव 

ARCHAEOLOGY 
जार्ज टाउन , वाशिंगटन द्वारा प्रदत्त एम० डी० चिकित्मा ग्रहता 

New Delhi, the 14th August 1972 
मान्य चिकित्सा अर्हता होगी ; 

S . O . 3161. — Whereas by notification of the Govern 

ment of India in the Ministry of Education & Youth 
और यतः डा० ईलीन नीडफील्ड की जिसके पास उक्त अर्हता Services S . O . 2717 dated the 28th June, 1969, published 

in Part II, Section 3 , sub - section ( li) of the Gazette of 
है और जो अपने देश में चिकित्सक के रूप में पंजीकृत हैं , शिक्षण , India dated the 12th July 1969 , the Central Government 
अनुसंधान एवं धर्मार्थ कार्य के प्रयोजनों के लिए फिलहाल होली 

gave notice of its Intention to declare the ancient monu 

ment specified in the Schedule below to be of national 
फेमिली हास्पिटल , मन्दर , जिला रांची के साथ सम्बद्ध है । importance . 

And whereas no objections have been received to the 
अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 14 की उपधारा ( 1 ) 

making of such declaration . 
के परन्तुक के भाग ( ग ) का अनुसरण करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
एतद्द्वारा 

by sub - section ( 3 ) of section 4 of the Ancient Monu 

ments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1958 
( 1 ) 31 दिसम्बर , 1972 को समाप्त होने वाली अागामी ( 24 of 1958) , the Central Government hereby declares 

the said ancient monument to be of national import 
अथवा 

ance. 


अवधि 


THE SCHEDULE 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


8 


II 


9 


10 


II 


State 


District 


si. 
No. 


Tahsi) 


Locality 


Name of 


Area 


Boundaries 


Owner - 
ship 


Remarks 


mounment 


Revenue plot 
numbers to bo . 
includod urdor 
protection 


Spiti 


Tabo 


Himachal Lahaul 
Pradosh . and Spiti 


Village 
properly . 


Budhist Mo 
nastery roge - 
ther with ad - 
jacent area 
comprised in 
Survey Plot 

No. 16as 
shown on the 
attached plan. 


Survey Plot J5 Bis - North : - . 

No . 16 as was and Waste land 
shown on the IS Bis 
attached plan . wasi. East : 

Wasta land 


South : 
Şurvey plot 

Nos . I , 4 , 5 . 
6 and 12 , 


West : 
Survey plot 

Nos . 13, 14 . 
IS and I7 . 


[ No. F . 2 / 1 / HP / 1 / 69 - M. ] 
A. B . CHANDIRAMANI , 
Joint Educational Adviser , 


SEC . 3(ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4457 


शिक्षा और समाज कल्याण मन्त्रालय 


( पुगतत्व सर्वेक्षण विभाग ) 


द्वारा केन्द्रीय सरकार ने नीचे दी गई अन सूची में विनिर्दिष्ट प्राचीन 
स्मारक को राष्ट्रीय महत्व का घोषित करने के अपने प्राणय की 
सूचना दी थी । 

और यतः ऐमी घोषणा करने पर भी कोई आक्षेप प्राप्त नहीं 


( पुरातत्य ) 


नई दिल्ली , 14 अगस्त , 1972 


का० प्रा० 3161 , - - यत : भारत के राजपत्र दिनांक 
12 जुलाई , 1969 के भाग 2, खण्ड 3, उपखण्ड ( 2 ) में 
प्रकाशित शिक्षा तथा युवक सेवा मंत्रालय , भारत सरकार की 
अधिसूचना संख्या का० प्रा० 2717 , दिनांक 28 जून , 1969 


अतः, अब, प्राचीन स्मारक तथा पुरातत्वीय स्थल और 
प्रवशेष अधिनियम, 1958 ( 1958 का 24 ) की धारा 4 की 
उपधारा ( 3 ) द्वारा प्रदन शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय 
मरकार एतद्द्वारा उक्त प्राचीन स्मारक को राष्ट्रीय महत्व का 
घोषित करती है । 


अनुसूची 


क्रमांक 


राज्य 


जिला 


तहसील 


स्थान 


स्मारक का नाम 


1 


2 


3 


4 


1 हिमाचल प्रदेश 


लाहौल और स्पीती 


स्पीती 


ताबू 


संलग्न नक्शों में दिखाये गये सर्वे प्लाट संख्या 16 

में समाविष्ट संलग्न क्षेत्र सहित बौद्ध बिहार 


क्षेत्र 


सीमाएँ 


स्वामित्व 


टिप्पणी 


संरक्षण के अधीन सम्मिलित की 
जाने वाली राजस्व प्लाट संख्या 


8 


10 


11 


ग्राम सम्पत्ति 


संलग्न नक्शे में दिखाई गयी सर्वे 15 बिसवा और 15 - उत्तर बंजर भूमि पूर्व- बंजर भूमि दक्षिण 

बिसवान्सी 

सर्वे प्लाट संख्या 1, 4, 5 , 6 और 
12 पश्चिम सर्वे प्लाट संख्या 13, 
14, 15 और 17 


[ सं० एफ० 2/ 1/एच / पी / 1/ 69 एम ] 

श्री अ० ०० चन्दीरामाणी, 
सम्पर्क शिक्षा सलाहकार । 


4458 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


( PART II 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND 

BROADCASTING 


Nele Delhi, the 23rd August 1972 
S .O . 3162 - The Central Government hereby accept 
the resignation of Smt. Ammu Swaminathan from 
membership of the Advisory Panel of the Central 
Board of Film Censors, Madras with immediate effect. 

[ No. F .11/4 / 72 -FC .] 


हए, केन्द्रीय सरकार ने श्री लक्षमण उद्यावर , अधीक्षक , केन्द्रीय 
f i TTS TOT 16 . 1972 À 3 77 . 1972 
( अपरान्ह ) तक श्री डी० गनिगम , जिनको छुट्टी दी गई है , 
के स्थान पर स्थानापन्न महायक प्रादेशिक अधिकारी. केन्द्रीय 
फिल्म सेंसर बोर्ड , मद्रान नियक्त किया है । 

[pesht 2/ 41/72– 4 ( ) ] 


मुचना और प्रमारण मंत्रालय 


एप० एन० मिनल , अबर मचिव । 


7 farmatt, 23 ATE 1972 
TFAO FO 3162 . - FT HAAT TEST THAT 
प्रम्म स्वामिनाथन का केन्द्रीय फिल्म से मेर बोई के मद्राम सलाह 
कार पैनल की सदस्यता से त्याग -पत्र तत्काल में स्वीकार करती 


[ FETT 50 


11/ 4/ 72 – 7:53 ( r) ] 


New Delhi, the 30th August 1972 
S . O , 3163. - In cxercise of the powers conferred by 
Rule 10 of the Cinematograph ( Censorship ) Rules, 
1958 , the Central Government has been pleased to 
appoint Shri Luxman Udyavar , Superintendent, Cen 
tral Board of Film Censors, as officiating Assistant 
Regional Officer , Central Board of Film Censors , 
Madrsa with effect from 16th May , 1972 to 3rd June, 
1972 ( afternoon ), vice, Shri D , Ramalingam granted 
leave . 

[No. 2 / 41 /72- FC .] 
S . N . MITAL, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS 

ORDER 
New Delhi, the 26th August 1972 
S . O . 3164 , Iri exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 9, clause (b ) of sub - rule ( 2 ) of 
rule 12 and sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 24 of the Central Civil 
Services ( Classification , Control and Appeal ) , Rules , 
1965, and in supersession of the notification of the Gov 
ernment of India in the Ministry of Communications 
No. S . R .O , 631- B , dated the 28th February , 1957 , the 
President hereby directs that , 
( 1 ) in respect of the posts in the General Central 

Service , Class II, specified in column ( 1 ) of 
Part I of the Schedule to this Order , the autho 
rity specified in column ( 2 ) shall be the 
Appointing Authority and the authority speci 
fed in column ( 3 ) shall be the Disciplinary 
Authority in regard to the penalties specified 

in column (4 ) ; 
( 2 ) in respect of the ports in the General Central 

Service, Class III and the General Central 
Service , Class IV , specified in column ( 1 ) of 
Part II of the said Schedule the authority 
specified in column ( 2 ) shall be the Appoint 
ing Authority and the authorities specified in 
columns ( 3 ) and ( 5 ) shall be the Disciplinary 
Authority and Appellate Authority respec 
tively in regard to the penalties specifled in 
column ( 4 ) . 


a farnit, 30 FT , 1972 
filo FTO 31637679 (AT) fyrirt, 1958 
के नियम 10 केद्वारा दिये गये अधिकारों का प्रयोग करते 


SCHDULE 


GENERAL CENTRAL SERVICES , CLASS II 


Authority competent to impose penalties and penaltics which it may 
impose with reference to item number in rule II. 


D -scription of Post 


Appointing authority 


Authority 


Penalities . 


- 


- - -- - - 


( 2 ) 


Alnitcu ve Ofic 


Wireless Adviser to the Govera - 

ment of India 


Wireless Adviser to the Govern 
ment of India 


c. 3 (1 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA . OK ! ORER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4459 


Part II 
General Ceniral Sorvice, Class III 


Authority competent to impoge penalties and 
penaltics which it may impoge with reference 

to item numbers in Rule II ) 


Description of Post. 


Appointing A : thority 


Appallate Authority 


Authority 


Penaltie - 


+ 


- 


- 


- 


I 


TECHNICAL POSTS 

1 . Technician Grade I 
2. Technician Grade II 
3 . Draftsman. 


Wireless Adviser to the Govern - Wireless Adviser to the Govern - All 
ment of India . 

ment of India . 


Secretary to the Go 
vernment of India, 


NON - TECHNICAL POSTS 

1 . Accountant 
3 . Upper Division Clerk | 
3 . Lower Division Clerk. 

Steno -typist . 


All 


Wireless Adviser to the Govern- 

ment of India . 


Mircrathiacrote Gover 


Wireleas Adviscr to the Govern- 
ment of India . 


Secretary to the Go 
vernment of India . 


5. 


Driver 


. 


. 


General Contral Service , Class IV 


1. Daftry 
1 . Peon 
3 . Chowkidar 
4 . Mazdoor . 

Mali 
Sweeper. . 


| Eng!ner-in -Charge Monitorlag Engineer-in - Charge Monitoring 
Organisation . 

Organisation . 


All 


Wireless Advloer to 
the Government of 
India . 


INo. C. IIO12 / 2/ 72 - VI8 .] 
A. S. BHATNAGAR , Jt. Secy, 


पुंचार मंत्रालय 


मादेश 


फा० प्रा० 3164 .. राष्ट्रपति, केन्द्रीय सिविल सेवा ( वर्गीकरण , नियन्त्रण और अपील ) नियम , 1965 के नियम 9 के उप-नियम ( 2 ) , 
नियम 12 के उप-नियम ( 2 ) के खण्ड ( ख ) औरनियम 24 के उप -नियम ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए तथा भारत सरकार , 
संचार मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना सं० का०नि०मा० 631 - बी , तारीख 28 फरवरी, 1957 को अधिकान्त करते हुए एतदद्वारा निदेश देते हैं कि : --- 


( 1 ) इस आदेश की अनुसूची के भाग 1 स्तम्भ ( 1 ) में विनिर्दिष्ट साधारण केन्द्रीय सेवा , वर्ग II के पदों के सम्बन्ध में स्तम्भ ( 2 ) 

में विनिर्दिष्ट प्राधिकारी नियुक्ति प्राधिकारी होगा और स्तम्भ ( 3 ) में विनिर्दिष्ट प्राधिकारी स्तम्भ ( 4 ) में विनिर्दिष्ट 
शास्तियों के सम्बन्ध में अनुशासन प्राधिकारी होगा , 


उक्त अनुसूची के भाग II के स्तम्भ ( 1 ) में विनिर्दिष्ट साधारण केन्द्रीय सेवा . वर्ग III और साधारण केन्द्रीय सेवा वर्ग IV के 
पदों के सम्बन्ध में स्तम्भ ( 2 ) में विनिर्दिष्ट प्राधिकारी नियुक्ति प्राधिकारी होगा और स्तम्भ ( 3 ) और ( 5 ) में विनिर्दिष्ट 
प्राधिकारी स्तम्भ ( 4 ) में विनिर्दिष्ट शास्तियों के सम्बन्ध में क्रमश : प्रशासन प्राधिकारी मौर अपील प्राधिकरण होगा । 


4460 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29 , 1894 


__ _ Par - 


[ PART II-- 


D 


. . 


. 


अनुसूची 
भाग I 


साधारण केन्द्रीय सेवा वर्ग II 


पद का विवरण 


नियुक्ति प्राधिकारी 


शास्तियां अधिरोपित करने में सक्षम प्राधिकारी तथा वे 

शास्तियां जिन्हें वह अधिरोपित (नियम 11 के 
__ मदों के संदर्भ में ) कर सकेगा 


प्राधिकारी 


शास्तियां 


( 1 ) 


( 3 ) 


प्रणासन अधिकारी । 


भारत सरकार के 


मभी 


भारत सरकार के 
बेतार सलाहकार 


बेतार सलाहकार 


भाग II 
माधारण केन्द्रीय सेवा , श्रेणी III 


पद का विवरण 


नियुक्ति प्राधिकारी 


अपीलीय प्राधिकारी 


शास्तियां अधिरोपित करने में सक्षम प्राधि - 
कारी तथा वे प्रशास्तियां जिन्हें वह अधिरोपित 
(नियम 11 के मदों के संदर्भ में ) कर मकेगा 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - 


प्राधिकारी 


शास्तियां 


- 


- 


- 


. .. . 


.. . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - . 


. .. . . 


__ ( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 5 ) 


- 


- 


तकमीकी पद 


मभी 


सचिव , भारत सरकार 


1. तकनीशियन ग्रेड In 
2 . तकनीशियन ग्रे II 
3. पाल्पकार 


भारत मरकार के बेतार भारत मरकार के बेतार 
सलाहकार 

सलाहकार 


सभी 


यथोक्न 


गैर- तकनीकी पद 
1. लेखाकार 
2. उच्च श्रेणी लिपिक 
3. निम्न श्रेणी लिपिक 
4. प्राश-टंकक 
5. ड्राइवर 


भारत सरकार के बेतार भारत सरकार के बेतार 
मलाहकार 

मलाहकार 


Sec . 3 ( 1 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 
- - . - - - . -- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -- ....- ---- . .. . - - - - - - 


- - 


- - 


- - 


केन्द्रीय सामान्य सेवा श्रेणी IV 


- - 


- -- - - - - -- -- - - - - - - - - - -- -- --- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


पद का विवरण 


नियक्ति प्राधिकारी 


अपीलीय प्राधिकारी 


शास्तियां अधिरोपित करने में सक्षम प्राधिकारी 
तथा वे शास्तियां जिन्हें वह अधिरोपित (नियम 
___ 11 के मदों के संदर्भ में ) कर सकेगा 


प्राधिकारी 


शास्तियां 


( 2 ) 


( 4 ) 


( 5 ) 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


1 . दफ्तरी 


सभी 


2. चपरासी 
3. चौकीदार 


भारत सरकार के तार 

सलाहकार 


अनुश्रवण संगठन 


अनश्रवण संगठन 


4. मजदूर 


5 . माली 


6. झाकण 


- - - -- 


- - - 


- - - 


- - 


-- - - 


- - 


- - - - 


[ म . सी . 11012/ 2/ 72-वि -जि . ] 


प्रानन्दस्वरूप भटनागर , संयुक्त मचिव । 


One 


DEPARTMENT OF ATOMIC ENERGY 

ORDER 
Bombay the 21st August, 1972 . 
S . O . 3165 . — In exercise of the powers conterred by 
sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 9 , clause ( b ) of sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 
12 and sub -rule ( 1 ) of rule 24 of the Central Civil Şer 
vices (Classification , Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965 , 
the President hereby directs that the following amend 
Ments shall be made in the Order of the Government 
of India in the Department of Atomic Energy No . S . O . 


5187 . dated the 3rd December, 1970 , published In the 
Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section ( ii ), 
clated the 27th November . 1971 , namely : -- 

In the Schedule to the said notification - - 
( 1 ) in Part 1 -- General Central Service, Class II , -- 
( a ) for itenm " ( vi) Power Projects Engneering Divi 

sion " and the entries relating thereto , and 
(b ) for item " (vii ) Madras Atomic Power Project" , 

the following items and entries shall respec 
tively be substituted, namely : 


Folanat the sche Governms.o . 


" (vi) Posts in Power Projects Engineoring Divisiin . 


- 


w 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - -... 


- . - - - - ---- 


- - - - -- 


Scientific , Technical and Admi - 

ministrative post . 


Director 


Director 


All ; 


( vii) Posts in Madras Alomatic Power Project. 
Scientific , Technical and Ad- Chief Project Engineer . 

ministrative poste . 


Chief Project Engineer , 


All ; , 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


4462 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[PART 1 


. 


(c ) afler ice .n x ) sai che carries relatjag chacoto , the following item and entries shall be inesrtod , namely 
" (X - A ) Posts in Reactor Rascarh Centre 


- 


3 


ALI 


( a) Scientiic and Technical Project Director 

Project Director 

All 
post . 
(b ) Administrative post . 

Project Director 

Project Director 
(2 ) in Put II - General Central Service, Class III - 

(a) fyrilen (V) Post in the Rajasthan Atomic Power Project" and the enrties relating thereto. 
(6 ) för item “ (vii ) Power Project Engineering Division ” , and 
( c ) foriran " ( viii ) Posts in Midras Ato nic Power Pivjezť ani in 21tries relating thereto , the following item and entrie shall 

respectively by ubtituted , namely : 


" (V) Posts in Rajasthan Atomic Power Project 


3 


Station Superintendent Opera - 
tion and Maintenance Group . 


Station Superintendent, Opera - 
tion and Maintenance Group . 


All 


Director , Power Pro 
ject Engineering 
Division . . 


(a ) Scientific , Tachnical ani 

Administrative posts in Op- 
eratig and Maintenance 
Group . 
( b ) Scientific and Technical 
posts in Construction Group 


Chief Project Engineer. 


Chief Project Engineer. 


All 


Director, Power Pro 

ject Engineering 

Division . 
Director , Power Pro 
ject Engineering 
Division . 


(c) Ainipistrative posts 
Construction Group . 


in 


Chief Ad.ninistrative Officer 


Chief Administrative Officer. 


All 


“ (vii) Posts in Power Projects Engineering Division . 
(a ) Scientific and mechnical Head, Engineering Division . Head , Engineering Division . All 

posts . 
( b ) A linististrative posts . Manager , Administrative Services Manages Administrative Services , All 


Engineering 
Director" ; 


(viii) Posts in Madras Atonmic Power Project . 


M 


. 


(a ) Surcarific and Technical 

posis . 


Chief Project Engineer. Chief Project Engineer . 

All Director Power Pro 

ject Enginecring Di 

vision . 
Manager, Administrative Services Mnager Administrative Services . All Director, Power Project 

Engineering Division " 


(6 ) Aininistrative posts . 


( c) after iten (xii) ani the entries relating thereto , the following items and entries shall be inserted , namely : 


All 


" (xü -A ) Posts in Reactor Research Centre 
(a ) Administrative posts. Chief Administrative Officer . Chief Administrative Officer . 

Project Director . 
(6 ) I echnical posts. . . Chief Administrative Officer Chief Administrative Officer . All Project Director" , 
(3) in Part III - General Central Service , Class IV 

(a ) for item " (vii) Power Project Engineering Division and the entries relating thereto , and 
(b ) for ite.n " (viii ) Posts in Madras Atomic Power Project" and the entries relating thereto , the following item and entries sha 

respectivly be substituted , namely : 


(8) Technical post. 


Administrative Officer 


Administrative Officer 


ALI 


Division . 


(6 ) Administrative post . 


. Administrative Offices . 


Administrative Officer. 


All 


Manager, Admins 
trative Service " .; 


SEC. 3(ii ) ] 


4463 


THE GAZETTE OF INDİA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


"(viii ) Posts in Madras Atomic Power Project. 


3 


- 


- 


- 


( a) Technical posts . . . Administrative Officer . 

Administrative Officer. 

All Chief Project Engine er 

Manager , Adminis 
( b) Adminitsrative posts. Administrative Officer. ] Administrtive Officer . 

All trative Servisce " ; 
( c) after item "(xii ) Posts in H } Witer P :5jets " andthe entries relating thereto, the following items and entries shall be inserted , 

__ namely : 
" (xii - A ) Posts in Reactor Research Centre . 


45 


(a ) Administrative posts . 


. 


Senior Administrative Oficer 


Senior Administrative Officer . 


All 


Chief Administrative 
Officer . 


( 5 ) riznical posts . 


. 


Senior A .l.ninistrative Oncer. 


Senior Administrative Officer . 


All 


Chief Administrativo 
Officer . 


[ No. 22(1)/68- Adm.] 
D . C . CHOPRA , Under Secy . 


परमाणु ऊर्जा विभाग 

आदेश 


बम्बई, 21 अगस्त , 1972 


का० प्रा० 3165 राष्ट्रपति , केन्द्रीय सिविल सेवा (वर्गीकरण , नियन्त्रग और अपील ) नियम, 1965 के नियम 9 के उप -नियम ( 2 ) 
नियम 12 के उप -नियम ( 2 ) के खण्ड ( ख ) और नियम 24 के उप-नियम ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए एतद्द्वारा 

वम्बर, 1971 के भारत के राजपत्र के भाग दो , खण्ड तीन , उप- खण्ड ( । ) में प्रकाशित परमाणु ऊर्जाविभाग द्वारा 
जारी भारत सरकार के आदेश संख्या , का० प्रा० 5187 दिनांक 3 दिसम्बर, 1970 में निम्नलिखित संशोधन किए जायें , नामतः - - 


उक्त अधिसूचना की अनुसूची में : 
(1 ) भागा -- साधारण केन्द्रीय सेवा, वर्ग II में ,-- 

(क ) मद "( VI ) विद्युत् परियोजना इंजीनियरी प्रभाग तथा उससे सम्बन्धित प्रविष्टियों के स्थान पर, तथा 
( ख ) मद " ( VII ) मद्रास परमाणु विद्युत् परियोजना " के स्थान पर क्रमशः निम्नलिखित मद तथा प्रविष्टियां शामिल की जायें , 

नामतः -- 


"( VI ) विद्युत परियोजना इंजीनियरी प्रभाग में पद 


निदेशक 


निदेशक 


सभी 


वैज्ञानिक, तकनीकी तथा 
प्रशासनिक पद 


( VII ) मद्रास परमाणु विद्युत् परियोजना में पद 
वैज्ञानिक , तकनीकी 

मुख्य परियोजना इंजीनियर सभी 
तथा प्रशासनिक पद 
( ग ) मद ( X ) तथा उससे सम्बन्धित प्रविष्टियों के बाद निम्नलिखित मद तथा प्रविष्टियां शामिल की जायें, नामतः --- 


4464 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OK TOBER 21. 19:72 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II --SEC. 4 


-- 


- 


- 


- 


M 


eam 

mama 


- 
- 


- 


- 

- 


- 


- . - 


- 


- 


- 


. 


moon 


- - 


- 


a 


- 


- 


m 


-- - 


- 


- 


- 


( Xक ) रिएक्टर अनुसंधान केन्द्र में पद 


+ 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


सभी 


( क ) वैज्ञानिक तथा परियोजना निदेशक 

परियोजना निदेशक 
तकनीकी पद 
( ख ) प्रशासनिक पद 

परियोजना निदेशक परियोजना निदेशक 

सभी 
( 2) " भाग II - साधारण केन्द्रीय सेवा, वर्ग III " में -- 
( क ) मद “ ( V ) राजस्थान परमाणु विद्युत परियोजना में पद" तथा उससे सम्बन्धित प्रविष्टियों के स्थान पर, 
( ख ) मद “( VII ) विद्युत परियोजना इंजीनियरी प्रभाग " के स्थान पर , तथा 
( ग ) मद “ ( VIII ) मद्रास परमाणु विद्युत परियोजना में पद " तथा उससे सम्बन्धित प्रविष्टियों के स्थान पर क्रमशः निम्नलिखित 

मद तथा प्रविष्टियां शामिल की जायें , नामतः --- 
" ( V ) राजस्थान परमाणु विद्युत परियोजना में पद 


IT 


- 


HARIHARM 


A 


- 


- 


- 


un - 


arm 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


( क ) संचालन तथा अनुरक्षण वर्ग स्टेशन अधीक्षक , संचालन स्टेशन अधीक्षक, संचालन सभी निदेशक , विद्युत परियोजना 
में वैज्ञानिक तकनीकी तथा प्रशास - तथा अनुरक्षण वर्ग तथा अनुरक्षण वर्ग 

इंजीनियरी प्रभाग 
निक पद 
( ख ) संनिर्माण वर्ग में वैज्ञानिक तथा मुख्य परियोजना इंजी- मुख्य परियोजना इंजी सभी निदेशक, विद्युत परियोजना 
तकनीकी पद 

नियर नियर 

इंजीनियरी प्रभाग 
( ग ) संनिर्माण वर्ग में प्रशासनिक पद मुख्य प्रशासन अधिकारी मुख्य प्रशासन अधिकारी सभी निदेशक , विद्युत परियोजना 

इंजीनियरी प्रभाग " ; 
" (VII ) विद्युत परियोजना इंजीनियरी प्रभाग में पद 
( क ) वैज्ञानिक तथा तकनीकी पद प्रधान, इंजीनियरी प्रधान, इंजीनियरी प्रभाग सभी निदेशक 

प्रभाग 
( ख ) प्रशासनिक पद 

प्रबंधक, प्रशासनिक सेवायें प्रबंधक प्रशासनिक सेवायें सभी निदेशक " ; 
“ ( VIII ) मद्रास परमाणु विद्युत परियोजना में पद 
( क ) वैज्ञानिक तथा तकनीकी पद मुख्य परियोजना इंजी - मुख्य परियोजना इंजी 

निदेशक , विद्युत परियोजना 
नियर नियर 

इंजीनियरी प्रभाग " ; 
( ख ) प्रशासनिक पद प्रबंधक , प्रशासनिक सेवायें प्रबंधक , प्रशासनिक सेवायें सभी निदेशक , विद्युत परियोजना 

इंजीनियरी प्रभाग " ; 
( ग ) मद ( XII ) तथा उससे सम्बन्धित प्रविष्टियों के बाद , क्रमशः निम्नलिखित मद तथा प्रविष्टियां शामिल की जायें, नामतः - - 


" ( XII -क ) रिएक्टर अनुसंधान केन्द्र में पद 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


5 


( क ) प्रशासनिक पद 
( ख ) तकनीकी पद 


मुख्य प्रशासन अधिकारी मुख्य प्रशासन अधिकारी 
मुख्य प्रशासन अधिकारी मुख्य प्रशासन अधिकारी 


सभी 
सभी 


परियोजना निदेशक 
परियोजना निदेशक " ; 


- 


- 


- 


- 


SFE . 3 (i ) | 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA . . ( TOBER 21 , 1972/ ASVINA 21, 189.1 


4465 


. 


.. . 


-- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - - 


- 


- 


. 


. 


- . . . . 


( 3) "भाग III - साधारण केन्द्रीय सेवा, वर्ग IV " में --- 

( क ) मद " ( VII ) विद्युत परियोजना इंजीनियरी प्रभाग " तथा उसमे सम्बन्धित प्रविष्टियों के स्थान पर, तथा 
( ख ) मद " ( VIII ) मद्रास परमाणु विद्युत परियोजना में पद " तथा उसम सम्बन्धित प्रविष्टियों के स्थान पर क्रमश: निम्नलिखित 

मद तथा प्रविष्टियां शामिल की जायें , नामतः - - 


प्रशासन अधिकारी 


सभी 


प्रधान , इंजीयिनरी प्रभाग 


" ( VIL ) विद्युत परियोजना इंजीनियरी प्रभाग में पद 
( क ) तकनीकी पद 

प्रशानन अधिकारी 
( ख ) प्रशासनिक पद 

प्रशासन अधिकारी 
"( VIII ) मद्रास परमाणु विद्युत परियोजना में पद 


प्रशासन अधिकारी 


सभी 


प्रबंधक , प्रशासनिक सेवायें " ; 


( क ) तकनीकी पद प्रणागन अधिकारी प्रशामन अधिकारी 

मभी मुख्य परियोजना इंजीनियर 
( ख ) प्रशासनिक पद प्रशासन अधिकारी प्रशासन अधिकारी 

मभी प्रबंधक , प्रशासनिक सेवायें " ; 
( ग ) मद " ( XII ) भारी पानी परियोजना में पद ,, तथा उससे सम्बन्धित प्रविष्टियों के बाद क्रमश: निम्नलिखित मद तमा 

प्रविष्टियां शामिल की जाये , नामत : 

“ ( XII-क ) रिएक्टर अनुसंधान केन्द्र में पद-. 
( क ) प्रशासनिक पद 

वरिष्ठ प्रशासन अधिकारी वरिष्ठ प्रशासन अधिकारी मभी 
( ख ) तकनीकी पद वरिष्ठ प्रशासन अधिकारी वरिष्ठ प्रणामन अधिकारी मभी मूख्य प्रशासन अधिकारी , 

[ सं 22 (i) 68-प्रशासन ] 
दुर्गा चरण चोपड़ा, अवर सचिव । 


MINISTRY OF STEEL AND MINES 

( Department of Mines ) 


And whereas the Central Government, after consider 
ing the report aforesaid , and , after consulting the Gov 
ernment of Orissa , 15 satisfied that the lands measuring 
45 . 35 acres (approximately ) or 18 . 37 hectares (approxi 
mately ) described in the Schedule appended hereto ghould 
be acquired ; 


New Delhi, the 26th August, 1972 . 


8 . 0 . 3166. . - Whereas by the notification of the Gov 
erminent of India in the late Ministry of Petroleum and 
Chemicals and Mines and Metals (Department of Mines 
and Metals ) No . S . O . 1642 , dated the 15th April, 1971 
issued under sub - section ( I) of section 7 of the Coal 
Bearing Areus ( Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957 
( 20 of 1957), the Central Government gave notice of its 
intention to acquire lands in the locality specified in the 
Scl cdule appended to that notification : 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conterred 
by sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 9 of the said Act , the Cen 
tral Government hereby declares that the lands measur 
Ing 45 . 35 acres ( approximately ) or 18. 37 hectares ( ap 
Proximatoly ) described in the said Schedule are hereby 
Acquired. 


2 . The plans of the area covered by this notification 
may be inspected in the Office of the Collector, Dhen 
kanal (Orissa ) or in the Omce of the Coal Coneroller , 
J, Souncil House Strcet, Calcutta or in the National Coal 
Developnient ( Corporation Limited ( Revenne Section 
Darbhanga House , Ranchi (Bihar ). 


And whereas the competent authority in pursuance of 
section 8 of the said Act has made his report to the 
Central Government: 


SCHEDULE 
Bharatpur Block (Talcher Coalfiolds . 


Drawing No . Rev/ 74 / 72 . 
( Showing land acquired ). 


ALL RIGHTS : 


Village 


Police Station 


Sub -Division . 


District . 


Sl. 
No . 


Area . 


Remark . 


. 


. 


1. Bharatpur , 
2. Lachhmanpur 


Colliery 
Colliery 


Talcher 
Talcher 


Full . 
Part . 


Dhankanal 
Dhenkanal 

( approximately) 
( approximately ) 


Total arca 


* 


or 


. 45: 35 acres . 

18 : 37 hectares 


4466 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 , 1972/ ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II. r 


- 


-- 


Plot zumbers acquired in village Bharatpur. 

I to 25 . 
Plot numbers acquired in village Lachhmanpur : 

35( P ), 40( P ), 4T ( P ), 50 ( P ), 452( P ), 57 ( P ), 60( P ), 6r to 66, 67( P ), 68( P ), 69 ( P), 70 to75, 76 ( P ), 77 (1 ), 78 to 82, 83 ( P ), 84, 87, 88 to947 
95(P ), 96( P ), 97(P ), 99( P ), 228 ( P), 229, 230, 274,( P ) and 309 . 

BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION 
1 - 2 Line passes along the western boundary of village Bharatpur and also the part northern boundary of village Balanda (which 

is also the part common boundary of South Balanda already acquired under sub - 8cction ( 1 ) of section 9 of the Coal Bearing 

Areay ( Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957 vide $ . 0 , No. 702, dated the 18th March , 1960 ) and meets at point z . 
2 - 3 Line passes along the purt southern boundry of plot numbers 6 , 5 and 230 in yillage Lachhmanpur and meets at point 3 . 
3 - 4 . 

Line passes through plot numbers 228 , 83 and along the western boundary of plot Nos. 84 , 87 and part western boundary 
of plot number 90 , through plot numbers 99 , 97, 96 , 95 , 77, 76 , 68 , 68 , 67, 35 , 40 and 41 in village Lachlimanpur and meets 

at point 4 . 
4 - 5 . Line passes through plot numbers 41 , 50 , 52 ,60, 57 and 274 in village Lacchhmanpur and meets al point s . 
5 - 6 . Line passs along the part common boundary of villages Lachhmanpur and Nakhatrapur , Lachhmanpur and Balande which 

is also the part common bouldnary of Sagannath pur Block (North Balanda) acquired under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 9 of 
Coal Bearing Areas ( Acquisition and Development ) Act , 1957 vides. O . No. 1334, dated the 24th April , 1962 ] and mects 

point 6A . 
6 - 7 - 8 Lines pass along the part Northern boundary of village Bharatpur (which is alo the common boundary of vllages Bharatpur 

and Balanda and also which are the part common boundary of Jagannathpur Block (North Balanda ) acquired under sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 9 of Coal Bearing Areas ( Acquisition and Development) Act , 1957 vide S .O . No . 1334 , dated the 24th 
April, 1962 ) andd meet at point 8 . 


8 - 9 - 10 - II Lines pags along the eastern boundary of village Bharatpur (which are also the common boundary of Bharatpur and Baland 


II - I 


( Acquisition and Development) Act , 1957 vides. O . No. 702 , dated the I8th March, 1960] ardmcet at point II . 
Linc passes along the southern boundary of village Bharatpur (which is also the common boundary of v llages Bhertapur 
and Balanda and also part common boundary of South Balanda acquired under sub - section ( 1 ) of section of Coal Bearing 
Areas ( Acquisition and Development ) Act , 1957 vide S . O . No. 702 , dared T8th March , 1960] and meets at starting point 


इस्पात और खान मंत्रगालय 


( खान विभाग ) 


[ No . C3. 2( 5)/ 70- C5.] 

A . 9. DESHPANDE. Unedr Secy . 
एकड़ ( लगभग ) या 18. 37 हेक्टेयर ( लगभग ) परिमाप की भमि 
को एतद्वारा प्रजित किया जाता है । 

2. इस अधिसूचना के अन्तर्गत आने वाले क्षेत्र के रेखांकों 
का निरीक्षण कलक्टर, घनकामल ( उड़ीसा ) के कार्यालय में , 
अथवा कोयला नियंत्रक , 1, कांउसिल हाऊस स्ट्रीट, कलकत्ता के 
कार्यालय में अथवा राष्ट्रीय कोयला विकास निगम लिमिटेड ( राजस्व 
अनुभाग ) , दरभंगा हाउस , रोधी (बिहार ) के कार्यालय में किया 
आ सकता है । 


नई दिलली, 26 - अगरत 19 72 . 
का० प्रा० 3166 यत : कोयला वाले क्षेत्र ( अर्जन पौर 
विकास ) अधिनियम , 1957 ( 1957 का 20 ) की धारा 
7 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के अर्थ ल भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व पेट्रोलियम 
और रसायन तथा खान और धातु मंत्रालय ( खान और धातु 
विभग ) की अधिसूचना संख्या का० प्रा० 1642 सारीख 15 


अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट परिक्षेत्र में भूमि को अजित करने के अपने 
आशय की सूचना दी थी ; 


मनुसूची 

भरतपुर खंड 
तालपेर कोयला - क्षेत्र 

ड्राइंग संख्या राज० / 74/ 72 
( अजित की गई भमि को 
दर्शित करते हुए ) 


और यतः सक्षम प्राधिकारी ने उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 
8 के अनुसरण में अपनी रिपोर्ट केन्द्रीय सरकार को दे दी है ; 


सभी अधिकार 


ग्राम 


क्रम 
संख्या 


पुलिस उप प्रभाग जिला क्षेत्र टिप्पणियो 
थाना 


और यतः उपर्युक्त रिपोर्ट पर विचार करने और उड़ीसा 
सरकार से परामर्श करने के पश्चात् केन्द्रीय सरकार का समाधान 
हो गया है कि इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में वर्णित 45 . 35 एकड़ 
( लगभग ) या 18 . 37 हेक्टेयर ( लगभग ) परिमाप की भूमि 
को जित किया जाना चाहिए ; 

अतः अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 9 की उपधारा ( 1 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद् 
द्वारा यह घोषणा करती है कि उक्त अनुसूची में वर्णित 45 . 35 


1 भरतपुर कोयला खान तालचेर धेनकानल पूर्ण 
2 लच्छमनपुर कोयला तालचेर धेनकानल भाग 

खान 
कुल क्षेत्र : 45 . 35 एकर ( लगभग ) 

अपवा 18. 37 हेक्टयर ( लगभग ) 


SEC . 3 (i.) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA. 29, 1894 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


.. - 


- - - .. . - - - - 


ग्राम भरतपुर में अजित किए गए प्लाटों की संख्या : 


1 से 25 


ग्राम लच्छमनपुर में अजित किए गए प्लाटों की संख्या : 


___ 35( पी ), 40( पी ), 11 ( पी ), 50 ( पी ), 52 ( पी ), 57 
( पी ), 60 ( पी ), 61 से 66, 67( पी ), 68 ( पी ), 59( पी ), 70 
से 75, 76 ( पी ), 77 ( पी ), 78 से 82, 83 ( पी ), 84, 87, 88 
से 91, 95 ( पी ), 96(पी ), 97( पी) , 99 ( पी ), 228(पी ), 
229, 230, 27 4 ( पी ) और 309. 


6 - 7 - 8 लाइने ग्राम भरतपुर की भागत: उत्तरी सीमा से 
[ जो भरतपुर और बालन्दा ग्रामों की भी सामान्य सीमा है तथा 
जो कोयला वाले क्षेत्र ( अर्जन और विकास ) अधिनियम , 1957 
की धारा 9 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के अधीन का० प्रा० संख्या 1 334 , 
तारीख 24 अप्रैल, 1962 द्वाग अजित जगन्नाथपुर खंड ( उत्तरी 
बालन्दा ) की भी भागतः सामान्य सीमा है ] होकर गुजरती है और 
बिन्दु 8 पर मिलती है । 
____ 8 - 8--10 - 11 लाइनें ग्राम भरतपुर की पूर्वी सीमा से [ जो 
भरतपुर और बालन्दा ग्रामों की भी सामान्य सीमा है और कोयला 
याले क्षेत्र ( अर्जन और विकास ) अधिनियम , 1957 की धारा 9 
की उपधारा ( 1 ) के अधीन का० प्रा० 702 तारीख 18 मार्च, 
1960 द्वारा अर्जित दक्षिणी बालन्दा की भी भागतः सामान्य 
सीमा है ] होकर गुजरती है और बिन्दु 11 पर मिलती है । 
____ 1 ] - 1 लाइन ग्राम भरतपुर की दक्षिणी सीमा से [ जो भरतपुर 

और बालन्दा ग्रामों की भी सामान्य सीमा है और कोयला वाले क्षेत्र 
( अर्जन और विकास ) अधिनियम , 1957 की धारा 9 की उपधारा 
( 1 ) के अधीन का० प्रा० संख्या 702 तारीख 18 मार्च, 1960 
द्वारा अजित दक्षिणी बालन्दा की भी भागत : सामान्य सीमा है । 
होकर गुजरती है और प्रारम्भिक बिन्दु 1 पर मिलती है । 

[ सं० को० 3--2 ( 5 )/ 70को05 ] 
ए० एस० देशपांडे, अवर सचिव । 


सीमा वर्णन 


_ 1 - 2 लाइन ग्राम भरतपुर की पश्चिमी सीमा और ग्राम 
बालन्दा की भागतःउत्तरी मीमा से [ जो कोयला वाले क्षत्र ( अर्जन 
और विकाम ) अधिनियम, 1957 की धारा 9 की उपधारा ( 1 ) 
के अधीन का० आ० संख्या 702, तारीख 18 मार्च, 1960 द्वारा 
• पहले ही अजित दक्षिणी बालन्दा की भी भागतः सामान्य सीमा है ] 
गुजरती है और बिन्दु 2 पर मिलती है । 

2 - 3 लाइन ग्राम लच्छमनपुर में प्लाट संख्या 6, 5 और 230 
की भागतः दक्षिणी सीमा से होकर गुजरती है और बिन्दु 3 पर 
मिलती है । 


ac 


___ 3 - 4 लाइन ग्राम लच्छमनपुर में प्लाट संख्या 2 28, 83 से 
और प्लाट संख्या 81, 87 की पश्चिमी मीमा मे तथा प्लाट संख्या 
90 की भागतः पश्चिमी सीमा से , प्लाट संख्या 99, 97 , 96 , 
95, 77, 76, 69, 68, 67, 35, 40 और 4 1 मे होकर गुजरती 
है और बिन्दु 4 पर मिलती है । 


ORDER 
IRON AND STEEL CONTROL 

Calcutta , the 1st September 1972 
S . O . 3167 . — In exercise of the powers conferred 
on me by Notification No. S . O . 1436 dated 18th April, 
1967 under the Essential Commodities ( Regulation of 
Production and Distribution for purposes of export ) 
Order , 1966. I hereby direct that the firm specified in 
Columri I of the Table below shall sell the goods as 
specified in Column 2 there- against to the firm speci 
fled in the corresponding entry in Column 3 of the 
said table for purposes of manufacture of Engineer 
ing goods for export at the price indicated there 
against in Column 4 subject to the conditiong enume 
rated in Column 5 of the said table . 


4 - 5 लाइन ग्राम लच्छमनपुर में प्लाट संख्या 41, 50, 52, 
60, 57 और 274 गे होकर गुजरती है और बिन्दु 5 पर मिलती 


Name of thh Spocification 
firni 

of goods. 


Name of the Price Condition 
exportor. 


5 - 6 लाइन लच्छमनपुर और नक्षत्रपुर, लच्छमनपुर और 
बालन्दा ग्रामों की भागत : मामान्य सीमा से [ जो कोयला वाले 
क्षेत्र ( अर्जन और विकास ) अधिनियम , 1957 की धारा 9 की 
उपधारा ( 1 ) के अधीन का० प्रा० संख्या 1334, तारीख 24 
अप्रैल, 1962 द्वारा अजित जगन्नाथपुर खंड ( उत्तरी बालन्दा ) 
की भी भागत : सामान्य मीमा है ] होकर गजरती है और बिन्दु 
6- क पर मिलती है । 


M /s. Indian H .B .Wiros M 8. Super At Supply 
Steel & Wire 36 241 M / Cycle & cur shoald bo 
Products Ltd Tones ( Thir - Allige Indu - cnt made On 
Indranagar , tysix point stries, Gill mar - export pro 
Singhbhum, two four one Road, Ludhi kot duction 
Tatanager. M / Tons only ) iana- 3 price. basis ( i.o. 

priority 

next to 
Defence 


[ No . F . PR- V / 5 / 121 / 72.] 

By order etc . 

T. GHOSH, 
Director of Export Production 
and Iron and Steel Controller. 


4468 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 ASVINA 24, 1894 

- - - -- - - -- - - - - - 
आदेश 


[ PART II - - 
- - - -- -- - - - - -- 


- - - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- -- - 


लोहा और इस्पात नियंत्रन 
कलकत्ता , 1 मितम्बर, 1972 


का०मा० 3167. -- - ESS : COMM / RPDE/ 78 -- - अावश्यक वस्तु (निर्यात के प्रयोजनों के लिए उत्पादन और वितरण का 
विनियंत्रण ) प्रादेश , 1966 के अन्तर्गत अधिसूचना सं ० का प्रा० 1436 दिनांक 18 अप्रैल, 1967 के द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हए मैं , एतदद्वारा नीचे दिए गए तालिका के स्तम्भ 1 के फर्म को स्तम्भ 2 में उल्लेखित वस्तुओं को , स्तम्भ 3 में नामांकित फर्म को इंजीनियरी 
वस्तुओं के उत्पादन तथा निर्यात हेतु स्तम्भ 4 में दिए गए मूल्य पर, स्तम्भ 5 में दिए गए शर्त पर विक्रय करने का आदेश देता हूं । 


फर्म का नाम 


वस्तुओं का विस्तृत विवरण निर्यातक का नाम 


मूल्य 


23 

.. -- - 
मैसर्स इंडियन स्टील एंड एच ०वी० वायर्स 36 . 241 सुपर सायकिल एंड सामान्य मूल्य जो माल के माल का भुगतान निर्यात 

वायर प्रोडक्टस लिमिटेड, टन ( छत्तीस दशमलव दो इलायड इंडस्ट्रीज भूगतान के समय हो प्राथमिकता के आधार पर 
इंद्रनगर, टाटानगर, सिंगभूम चार एक टन सिर्फ ) गील रोउ लुधियाना - 3 

( अर्थात ऐसी प्राथमिकता 
जो प्रतिरक्षा के माल 
के भुगतान के बाद हो ) 
देनी होगी । 


[सं०पी०प्रार० -वी०/5/ 121/ 72] 


प्राज्ञा से इत्यादि 

टी० घोष , 
निर्यात उत्पादन निदेशक 

और 
लौह तथा इस्पात नियंत्रक । 


MINISTRY OF SHIPPING AND TRANSPORT 

( Transport Wing ) 
New Delhi , the 8th August 1972 


S. O . 3168. -- Shri R . P. Ojha, Secretary to the Govern 
ment of Punjab , Transport Department, is appointed 
as Member of the Working Group , constituted vide the 
Ministry of Shipping and Transport Resolution 
No. 39 - TAG ( 3 ) / 72 , dated the 7th July , 1972 , to examine 
the question of language to be used for the display of 
registration marks on motor vehicles , vice Shri Kulwant 


नौवहन और परिवहन मन्त्रालय 

( परिवहन पक्ष ) 
नई दिल्ली , 8 अगस्त , 1972 
एस० प्रो० 3168 . --पंजाब सरकार के परिवहन विभाग 
के सचिव, श्री पार० पी० प्रोझा को श्री कुलवन्त सिंह के स्थान 
पर उस कार्य दल का सदस्य नियुक्त किया जाता है जो मोटर 
गाड़ियों पर पंजीकरण चिन्ह के प्रदर्शन के लिए प्रयुक्त की जाने 
वाली भाषा के प्रश्न पर जांच करने के लिए नौवहन और परिवहन 
मन्त्रालय के संकल्प सं० 39- टी ए जी ( 3 )/ 72 दिनांक 7 जुलाई, 
1972 में गठित की गई है । 


Singh. 


[ No . 39 -TAG ( 3) / 72. ] 


[ सं० 39-टी ए जी ( 3)/ 72] 
एन . ए . ए . नारायणन , 

अवर सचिव, 


N . A . A . NARAYANAN , Under Secy . 


SEC, 3 (i ) } 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4469 


ELECTION COMMISSION INDIA 

New Delhi, the 11th September, 1972 
S . O . 3169, - In exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 13A of the Representa 
tion of the People Act, 1950 , the Election Commission 
of India , in consultation with the Government of 
Uttar Pradesh , hereby nominates Shri Kailash Nath 
Goyal, Secretary to the Government of Uttar Pra 
desh , Judicial and Legislative Departments and Legal 
Rememberancer to that Government, as the Chief 
Electoral Omcer for the State of Uttar Pradesh with 
effect from the date he takes over charge and until 
further orders zice Shri Prem Prakash . 

[No . 154 /UP /72.] 
भारत निर्वाचन प्रयोग 
i fart, 11 ft ., 1972 


5 . Shri Badi Uddin , son of Shri Hasim Uddin , 

aged about 39 years resident of 40 , Dhondipur, 

Allahabad . 
6 . Shri Brajesh Narain Brajesh , aged about 53 

years , son of Shri Har Narain , residing at 
Santosh Sadan , Sindhi Colony, Lashkar , Gwa 

lior. 
7 . Shri Prem Chandra , Father s name not known , 

r / o Village and post Jaisra , District Allahabad . 
8 . Shri Mangla Prasad , son of Shri Banwari Lal, 

aged about 69 years , resident of village Bam 

pur Upraha , Bampur, District Allahabad . 
9 . Shri Ratan Singh Raizada, father s name not 

known, resident of 1- B , Beli Road , New Katra , 

Allahabad . 
10 . Shri Sat Narain , Father s name not known , 

resident of village Karkuni, Post Madhopur 

Naini, Tahsil Karchhana, District Allahabad . 
11. Shri Indu Dev , aged about 64 ycars, son of Late 

Shri G . C . Dev , residing at 7 , Albert Road , 

Allahabad (Petitioner No. 1 ) . 
2 . Shri H . P . Pandeya , son of Late Shri J . P . 

Pandeya , resident of 4 , Lowther Road , South 

Malaka , Allahabad (Petitioner No. 2 ) . 
13 . Shri Kamta Nath Agarwal, aged about 45 years 

son of Late Shri Kedar Nath Agarwal, resi 
dent of 261, Chak , Allahabad ( Petitioner 

No.4 ) . — Respondents . . . 
CORAM : 

HON BLE MR, JUSTICE K . S . HEDGE 

HON BLE MR, JUSTICE A , N . GROVÉR 
HON BLE MR. JUSTICE D . G . PALEKAR 

31st Day of July , 1972. 


To BỊ o 3 1 6 9 . - > 16 graffira aff14 , 
1950 of ETCT 13 of 7 JTETT ( 1 ) TTT TEA 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, भारत निर्वाचन आयोग , उत्तर 
प्रदेश सरकार के परामर्श से , श्री प्रेम प्रकाश के स्थान पर , श्री 
कैलाश नाथ गोयल , मचिव, उत्तर प्रदेश सरकार , न्यायिक और 
विधायी विभाग और सरकार के विधि -परामर्शी को उनके 
कार्यभार सम्भालने की तारीख से अगले आदेशों तक , उत्तर 
प्रदेश राज्य के लिए मुख्य निर्वाचन आफिमर के ना में 
TTGERET AAfift7 FTATORI 

Tao 154, 3 :50,72] 
New Delhi, the 21st September 1972 
S . O . 3170 . - In pursuance of clause ( b ) of sub 
sectior. ( 2 ) of section 116C of the Representation of the 
People Act , 1951 (43 of 1951 ) , the Election Commis 
sion of India hereby publishes the order of the Supreme 
Court of India pronounced on the 31st July , 1972, on 
an appeal from the judgment and order dated the 9th 
August, 1971 of the High Court of Judicature at Allaha 
bad in Election Petition No. 4 of 1971. 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA 

CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION 

CIVIL APPEAL No. 1340 (NCE ) OF 1971 
Appeal under Section 116 - A of the Representation 
of the People Act, 1951 from the judgment and Order 
dated the 9th August, 1971 of the Allahabad High 
Court at Allahabad in Election Petition No. 4 of 1971. 


For the Appellant : Mr. E . C . Agarwal, Advocate . 
For Respondent No . 1: Mr. S . C . Agarwal, Advocate. 
For Respondent No. 2 : Miss Kailash Mehta, Advocate . 

The appeal above mentioned being called on for 
Orders before this Court on the 31st day of July , 1972 
UPON Mr. E . C . Agarwala Counsel for the Appellant 
informing the Court that the Appellant herein does 
not want to press the appeal above -mentioned this 
court doth order : ( 1 ) That the appeal above -mentioned 
he and is hereby diminissed as not pressed ; ( 2 ) That 
there shall be no order as to costs of this appeal. 

Witness the Hon ble Mr. Sarv Mittar Sikri, Chief 
Justice of India at the Supreme Court New Delhi 
dated this the 31st day of July , 1972. 

( sd ) Dy. Registrar. 

[No . 82 / 4 /UP / 71 .) 


ORDERS 


Shri Sheo Narain Kakrania , aged about 65 , years , 

son of Late Shri Babu Lal Kakrania , residing 
at “ Kakrania Bhawan " 377 / 116 Mohtashim 
gani, Allahahad. 3 . — Appellant. 

Versius 


1, Shri Hamwati Nandan Bahuguna , father s name 

not known , residing at 13 - B , Hastings Road , 

Allahabad . 
2 . Shri Krishna Kumar son of Shri Jagdeo Prasad , 

aged about 27 years , resident of 319, Ahiyapur , 

(Malviya Nagar) , Allahabad . 
3 . Shri Chandrama son of Shri Deo Saran , aged 

About 27 years , resident of Fatehpur Karchana , 
District Allahabad , at present residing at 252 , 

Bahadurganj, Allahabad . 
4 . Shri Taipal Singh Kashyap son of Shri Bhupal 

Singh , aged about 35 years, residing at 1 , 
Mahatma Gandhi Marg , Allahabad . 


New Delhi, the 2nd September 1972 
S . O . 3171 . — Whereas the Election Commission is 
satisfied that Shri S . Nallappan , S / o Shri Sinnappan , 
Kottagoundampatti Post. Salem - 11 , A contesting can 
didate for election to the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assem 
bly from 82- Omalur assembly constituency , held in 
March , 1971 has failed to lodge an account of his 
election expenses as required by the Representation of 
the People Act 1951 , and the Rules made thereunder : 

And whereas , the said candidate , even after the due 
notice has not given any reason or explanation for the 
failure and the Election Commission is satisfied that 
he has no good reason or justifcation for such fallure . 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the 
said Art, the Election Commission hereby declares the 
said Shri S . Nallappan to be disqualified for being 
chosen as, and for being a member of either House of 


4470 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II . 


Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly or Legisla 


from the date of this order . 


__ 1951 तथा तीन बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा अपेक्षित अपने . 
निर्वाचन व्ययों का कोई भी लेखा दाखिल करने में असफल 
रहे हैं ; 


[ No. TN/ LA/ 82/ 71 ( 8 ) . ] 


श्रादेश 


नई दिल्ली 2, मितम्बर , 1972 


एस० मो० 3171,-- - यत :, निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान 


निर्वाचन के लिए 82 प्रोमालूर निर्वाचन क्षेत्र से चुनाव लड़ने 
वाले उम्मीदवार श्री एस० नाल्लाप्पन सुपुत्र श्री सोनाप्पन, पोस्ट 
कोट्टागोंडान्पट्टी, मलेम - 11, लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 
1951 तथा उद्धीन बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा अपेक्षित अपने 
निर्वाचन व्ययों का कोई भी लेखा दाखिल करने में असफल रहे 


और, यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने उसे सम्यक सूचना 
दिये जाने पर भी , अपनी इस असफलता के लिए कोई कारण 
अथवा स्पष्टीकरण नहीं दिया है ; तथा निर्वाचन आयोग का 
यह भी समाधान हो गया है कि उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए 
कोई पर्याप्त कारण या न्यायोचित्य नहीं है । 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धाग 10 - क के अन मरण 
में निर्वाचन आयोग एतद्द्वारा उक्ल श्री मेनगोडा गोनहर को 
संमद् के किसी भी मदन के या किसी राज्य को विधान सभा 
अथवा विधान परिषद् के मदस्य चने जाने और होने के लिए , 
इस आदेश की तारीख में तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए 
निरहित घोपित करता है । 

[ सं० तमिल -वि० म०/ 80/ 71/ 9] 


और, यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने, उसे सम्यक सुचना 
दिये जाने पर भी , अपनी इम असफलता के लिए कोई कारण 
प्रथवा स्पष्टीकरण नहीं दिया है ; तथा निर्वाचन आयोग का 
यह भी समाधान हो गया है कि उसके पास इस अपफलता के लिए 
कोई पर्याप्त कारण या न्यायोचित्य नहीं है ; 

अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10--ग के अनुसरण 
में निर्वाचन आयोग एतद्वारा उतत श्री एम . नाललाप्पन को 
संसद के किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान सभा 
अथवा विधान परिषद् के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए , 
इस आदेश की तारीख से तीन वर्ष को कालावधि के लिए निहित 
घोषित करता है । 

[मं० तमिल -वि० म० / 82/ 71/ 8] | 


S . O . 3173, — Whereas the Election Commission is 
satisfied that Shri M . Samikkannu Padayachi, 58 
Easwarankoil Street, Elavanrasur, Tirukoilur Taluk, 
Tamil Nadu , a contesting candidate for election to the 
Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly from 65 - Ulundurpet 
assembly constituency , held in March , 1971 has failed 
to lodge an account of his election expenses in the 
manner required by the Representation of the People 
Act , 1951, and the Rules made thereunder ; 

And whcrcas , the said candidate , cven after the due 
notice has not given any reason or explanation for the 
failure and the Election Commission is satisfied that 
he has no good reason or justification for such failure. 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the 
said Act, the Election Commission herehy declares the 
said Shri M . Samikkannu Padayachi to be disqualified 
for being chosen as , and for being , a member of eithes 
House of Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly or 
Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this order. 

[ No. TN/ LA/ 65 / 71 ( 10 ) .] 


S. O . 3172. - whereas the Election Commission is 
stalsfled that Shri Sengoda Gounder S / o Shri Rama 
Gounder, Ukkarmparuthikadu, Kolathur, Salem Dis 
trict, Tamil Nadu , a contesting candidate for election 
to the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly from 80 
Mettur assembly constituency held in March, 1971 has 
flalled to lodge an accounrt of his election exprenses as 
required by the Representation of the People Act, 
1951, and the Rulcs made thereunder ; 

And whereas , the said candidate even after the due 
notice has not given any reason or explanation for the 
failure and the Election Cominission is satisfied that 
he has no good reason or justification for the failure . 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the 
said Act, the Election Commission hereby declare the 
said Shri Sengoda Gounder to be disqualified for being 
chosen as , and for being , a member of either House of 
Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly or Legis 
ative Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this order. 


एम० प्रो० 3 173. - यत :, निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो 
गया है कि मार्च, 1971 में हए तमिलनाडु विधान सभा के 
" निर्वाचन के लिए 65 - उलनदूरपेट निर्वाचन क्षेत्र से चनाव 
लड़ने वाले उम्मीदवार श्री एम . ममीक्कान्नू पदयाची, 53 
ईस्वरनकोइल स्ट्रीट, ऐलावानामुर, तिरुकोइलर तालुक , तमिलनाडु 
लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 1951 तथा सद्धीन बनाए गाए 
" नियमों द्वारा अपेक्षित रीति से अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों का लेखा 
दाखिल करने में असफल रहे हैं ; 


[ No. TN/ LA/ 80 / 71 ( 9 ). ] 
एस० प्रो० 3172- - यत : निर्वाचन अायोग का समाधान 
हो गया है कि मार्च, 1971 में हए तमिलनाइ विधान सभा निर्वाचन 
के लिए 80 मेस्तूर निर्वाचन क्षेत्र से चुनाव लड़ने वाले उम्मीदवार 
श्री सेनगोडा गोनडर सूपुत्र रामा गोनडर उक्काम्पारूथीकाड, 
कोसाथुर , जिला सलेम , तमिलनाडू लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम 


और यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने उसे सम्यक् सूचना 
दिये जाने पर भी , अपनी इस प्रसफलता के लिए कोई कारण 
अथवा स्पष्टीकरण नहीं दिया है ; तथा निर्वाचन आयोग का 
यह भी समाधान हो गया है कि उसके पाम इस श्रमफलता के लिए 
कोई पर्याप्त कारण या न्यायोचित्य नहीं है । 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10-क के अनुसरण 
में निर्वाचन आयोग एतद्द्वारा उक्त श्री एम० समीरकान्त पदयाची 


SEC . 36ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4471 


को संमद के किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान सभा 
अथवा विधान परिषद् के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए , 
इस आदेश की तारीख से तीन वर्ष का कालावधि के लिएनिगहन 
घोषित करता है । 


New Dolhi tho 22nd August 1972 
S . O . 3175. - In pursuance of the provisions of section 21 
of the Representation ofthe People Act , 1951 ( 43 of 1951) and 
in suparsession of its Notification No . 434/ AP/ 7I, dated the 
Ifth January , 1971, as subsequently amended , the Election 
Commission litreby designates , in consuliation with the Go 
vernment of Andhra Pradesh , the officer of Govornment specified 
in column 2 of the Table below as the Returning Officer of the 
parliamentary constitutency in the State of Andhra Pradesh as 
specified in column I of the said Table against such offiers of 
Government : - - 

TABIH 


[ मं० हमिल -वि० स० / 65/ 71 /10 ] 


S . O . 3174 . — Whereas the Election Commission is 
satisfied that Shri Murshad Ali , S / o Shri HoshmatAli , 
Mohalla Qulla , Aonla Tahsil, District Bareilly , Uttar 
Pradesh , a contesting candidate for election to the 
House of the People from 10 - Aonla Parliamentary 
Constituency , has failed to lodge an account of his 
election expenses as required by the Representation 
of the People Act , 1951 , and the Rules made there -- 
under ; 


Name of the constitutency 


Returning Officer 


2 . And whereas , the said candidate even after due 
notices has not given any reason or explanation for 
the failure and the Election Commission is satisfied 
that he has no good reason or justification for such 
failure ; 


3. Now , therefore, in pursunce of section 10A of the 
said Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the 
said Shri Murshad Ali to be disqualified for being 
chosen as and for being a member of either House of 
Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly or Logis 
lative Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this order , 


[ No. UP - HP/ 10 / 71 ( 23 ) . ] 

By Order 
A . N . SEN, Secy . 


J . Srikakulam 
2 . Parvathipuran ( S 
3 . Bobbili 
4 . Visakhapatrnatri 
5 . Bhadrachalam (ST ) 
6 . Anakapalli . 
7 . Kakinada , 
8 . Rajahmundry 
9 . Amalapuram (SC ) 
I0 . Narasapur . 
II , Eluru 
12. Gudivada , 
13. Vijayawada . 
14. Machilipatnam 
15 . Ongole 
16. Guntur 
17 . Narasaraopat 
19. Kavali 
19. Nellore (SC) 
20 . rirupatthi (SC ) 
21. Chittoor 
2 . Rajampct , 
3 . Cuddapah . 
24 . IIidupur 
25 . AnantapLI 
26 . Kurnool 
27, Nandyal 
28 . Nagarkurnool ( SC ) 
29. Mahbubnagar 
30. IIyderabad 
31 . Secunderabad 


एम० प्रो० 3174. --- यतः निर्वाचन आयोग का गमाधान 
हो गया है कि लोक सभा के लिए निर्वाचन के लिए 10 - आनंला 
मंसदीय निर्वाचन क्षेत्र से चुनाव लड़ने वाले उम्मीदवार श्री 
मरशद अली मपुत्र श्री हशमत अली मोहल्ला किला , तहसील 
आयला जिला बरेली ( उत्तर प्रदेश ) लोक प्रतिनिधित्व 
अधिनियम 1951 तथा तद्धीन बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा 
अपेक्षित अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों का कोई भी लेखा दाखिल 
करने में असफल रहे हैं ; 

और यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने , उसे मम्यक सूचनाएं दिये 
जाने पर भी अपनी छम असफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथवा 
स्पष्टीकरण नहीं दिया है ; और निर्वाचन आयोग का यह भी 
ममाधान हो गया है कि उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई 
पर्यात कारण या न्यायोचित्य नहीं है 


Collector , Srikakulam. 
Collector , Srikakulam . 
Collector , Srikakulam . 
Collector , Visakhapatnam . 
Collector, Khammam . 
Collector, Vishakhapatnam . 
Collector, East Godavari . 
Collector , East Godavari . 
Collector , East Godavari . 
Collector, West Godavari . 
Collector, West Godavari . 
Collector, Krishna. 
Collector , Krishna. 
Collector , Krishna. 
Collector , Ongole . 
Collector , Guntur . 
Collector, Guntur, 
Collector , Nellore , 
Collector, Nellore . 
Collector , Chittoor. 
Collector , Chittoor . 
Collector , Cuddapah. 
Collector , Cuddapah. 
Collector , Anantapur . 
Collector, Anantapur . 
Collector, Kurnool. 
Collector, Kurnool, 
Collector , Mahbubnagar . 
Collector , Mahbubnagar . 

Collector , Hyderabad , 
. Special Officer , Municipal Cor 

Duration of Hyderabad , 
, Collector , Medak . 

Collector , Medak , 
Collector, Nizamabad . 
Collector , Adilabad . 
Collector , Karimaagar 
Collector , Karimnagar , 
Collector, Warangal. 
Collector , Khammam . 

Collector, Nalgonda 
. Collector , Nalgonda, 


32 . Sildipot (SC) 
33 . Afedak 
34. Nizamabad . 
35. Adilabad . 
36 . Peddapalli (SC) . 
37. Karimanagar 
38 . Warangal , 
39 . Khainmain 
40 . Nalgonda . 
41 . Mirya ! guida , . 


- - - - - 


- 


- - - 


- 


अतः अब उक्न अधिनियम की धारा 10क के प्रन मरण 
में निर्वाचन अायोग एतद्वारा उक्त श्री मुरशद अली को 
संमद के किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य को विधान सभा अथवा 
विधान परिषद् के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए एम 
आदेश की तारीख से तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निहित 
घोषित करता है । 

[मं० उ० प्र० लो०म०/ 10/ 71( 23 )] 


[ No . 434/ AP/ 72( 1). ] 
नई दिल्ली , 22 अगस्त 1972 
एम० ओ० 3175 . --.- लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 1951 
( 1951 का 43 ) की धारा 21 के उपबंधों के अनमरण में और 
तत्पश्चात यथासंशोधित अपनी अधिसूचना सं० 434/ ग्रा० 
प्र० / 71 तारीख 14 जनवरी 1971 को अधिक्रांत करते हुए 
निर्वाचन अायोग अांध्र प्रदेश सरकार के परामर्श से नीचे 
की मारणी के स्तम्भ 2 में विनिर्दिष्ट सरकारी अधिकारी को 
में सरकारी अधिकारी के सामने उक्त मारणी के स्तम्भ 1 में 


आदश से 
ए० एन० मैन, सचिव । 


4472 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II — 


पमा विनिर्दिष्ट आन्ध्र प्रदेश राज्य के मंसदीय निर्वाचन - क्षेत्र 
के रिटर्निंग आफिसर के रुप में एतदद्वारा पदाभिहित करता 


- - - - 


- - -- - 


- - - - - - - - -- 


सारणी 


निर्वाचन क्षेत्र का नाम 


रिटर्निंग आफिसर 


37. करीमन रनग 

कनस्टर करीमनगर 
38. वारंगल । 

कलस्टर वारंगत । 
39. खाम्माम 

कलक्टर खम्माम । 
40 . नालगोंडा 

कलक्टर नालगोंडा । 
41. मिग्यालगुडा 

कलक्टर नालगोंडा । 

- . -- , - - . 
[ म . 434/ ग्रा० प्र०/ 72 ( 1 ) ] 


- 


- 


2 


S . 0 . 3176 . --- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 22 or the Representaton of the People Act 
1951 and in supersession of ing notification No. 434 / AP /71, dated 
the 14th January, 1971 , as subsequently amended , the Election 
Cynnission hereby appoints the officer of Government ay speci 
fied in column 2 of the Table below as Assistant Returning Officer 
to assist the R - turning Officer of the Parliamentary constitutency 
in the State of Andhra Pradesh ag specified in column I of the 
yaid Table against guch officer of Government in the performance 
of the functions of such Returning Officer : 

TABLE 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Returning Officer of 
Parliamentary constitutency 


Assistant Returning Officer 


। 


] 


1. श्री काकुलम 
2. पार्वथीपुरम ( अजजा ) 
3. बोब्बिली 
4. विशाखापटनम् 
5 . भद्राचालम ( अजजा ) 
6 . अनाकापल्ली 
7. काकीनाड़ा 
8 . राज मुंद्री 
9. अमालापुरम ( अजा ) 
10. नरसापुर 
11. इलुरु 
12. गुडिवाडा 
13. विजयवाड़ा 
14. मछलीपटनम 
15 . मोंगोल 
16. गन्दूर 
17. नरसाराप्रोपेट 
18. कवाली 
19. नेल्लोर ( अजा ) 
20 . तिरुपति ( अजा ) 
21. चित्तूर 
22. राजमपेट 
23. कडप्पा 
24. हिन्दुपुर 
25 . अन्तपुर 
26. कर्नूल 
27. नंदीयाल 
28. नगारकर्नूल ( अजा ) 
29. महबूबनगर 
30. हैदराबाद 
31 . सिकन्दराबाद 


कलक्टर श्रीकाकुलम । 
कलक्टर श्रीकाकुलम । 
कलक्टर श्री काकुलम । 
कलक्टर विशाखापटनम 
कलक्टर रखाम्माम । 
कलक्टर विशाखापटनम । 
कलक्टर पूर्व गोदावरी । 
कलक्टर पूर्व गोदावरी । 
कलक्टर पूर्व गोदावरी । 
कलक्टर पश्चिम गोदावरी । 
कलक्टर पश्चिम गोदावरी 
कलक्टर कृष्णा । 
कलक्टर कृष्णा । 
कलक्टर कृष्णा । 
कलक्टर ओंगोल । 
कलक्टर गुन्टूर । 
कलक्टर गुन्दर । 
कलक्टर नेल्लोर । 
कलक्टर नेल्लोर 
कलक्टर चितर 
कलक्टर चित्तूर 
कलक्टर कडप्पा 
कनक्टर कइप्पा 
कलक्टर अनन्तपुर 
कलक्टर अनन्तपुर । 
कलक्टर कर्नूल । 
कलक्टर कर्नूल । 
कलक्टर महबूबनगर । 
कलक्टर महबूबनगर । 
कलक्टर हैदराबाद । 
विशेष अधिकारी , हैदराबाद 

नगर निगम । 
कलक्टर मेडक । 
कलक्टर मेडक 
कलक्टर निजामाबाद 
कलक्टर आदिलाबाद । 
कलक्टर करीमनगर 


I Returning Officer of I Personal Assistant to Co 

Srikakulam parliamenta - !lcctor , Srikakulam . 

ry constitutency 
2 Returning Officer of 2 Personal Assistant to Col 

Parvathipuran (ST) Ilector , Srikakulam . 
parliamentary consti 

tutency . 
3 R turning Officer of 3 , Personal Assistant to Col 

Bobbili parliamentary lector , Srikakulam. 

constitutency . 
4 Returning Officer of 4 , Personal Assistant to Col 

Visakhapatnain parlia - lector , Visakhapatnam . 

mentary constitutency , 
5 Returning Officer of 5 Personal Assistant to Col 

Bhadrachalam (ST) lector , Khammam . 
parliamentary cons 

titutency . 
6 Returning Officer of 6 Personal Ass stant to Col 

Anakapalli parliamen - lcctor, Visakhapatnam . 

tary constitutency . 
7 Returning Officer of 7 Personal Assistant to Col 

Kakinada sparliamentary lector East Godavari. 

constitutency . 
8 Returning Officer of 8 Personal Assistant to Col 

Rajahmundry parlia - lector , East Godavari , 

mentary constitutency . 
9 Returning Officer of 9 Personal Assistant to Col 

___ Amalapuram (SC) par - lector , East Godavari . 

liamentary constitutency 
10 Returning Officer of 10 Personal Assistant to Col 

Narsapur parliamentary . lector , West Godavari. 

constitutency . 
IL Returning Officer of li Personal Assistant to Col 
, Eluru parliamentary Icctor, West Godavari. 

constitutency , 
12 Returning Officer of 12 Personal Assistant to Col 

Gudivada parliamen - lector, Krishna. 

tary constitutency . 
13 Returning Officer of 13 Personal Assistant to Col 

Vijayawada parliamen lector , Krishna . 

tary constitutency . 
14 Returning Officer of 14 Personal Assistant to Col 

Machilipatnam parlia - lector Krishna , 
mentary constitutency . 

- - - - - - - - - - - 


32. सिद्दीपेट ( अजा ) 
33. मेंडक 
34 . निजामाबाद 
35 आदिलाबाद 
36. पेड्डापल्ली ( अजा ) 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- -- - 


- . - 


- 


-- 


- 


- 


SEC . 3 (ii) ] 


4473 


- : 


- 


- - 


- - - - . - - . .. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 

-- - - -- - - - - -- - - 
2 

( 1) 


I 


( 2 ) 


- 


- . .. . . 


- - 


Personal Assistant , 

Collector, Nalgonda, 


to 


40 Returning Officer of 40 

Nalgonda parliamentary 

constitucncy 
41 Returning Officer of 41 

Miryalguda parliamenta - 
_ ry constituency 


Personal Assistant 

Collector Nalgonda . 


to 


- - 


- 


- - 


[ No . 434/ AP/72(2 )] 

___ By Order, 
NAGASUBRAMANIAN , Secy . 


एस०प्रो०3176 - लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 1951 की धारा 
22 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, 
और तत्पश्चात् यथा संशोधित , अपनी अधिसूचना सं0 434/ 
प्रा० प्र० / 71 , तारीख 14 जनवरी, 1971 को अधिकान्त 
करते हए, निर्वाचन आयोग , नीचे की सारणी के स्तम्भ 2 में 
या विनिर्दिष्ट सरकारी अधिकारी को , ऐसे सरकारी अधिकारी 
के सामने उक्त सारणी के स्तम्भ 1 में , यथा विनिर्दिष्ट आंध्र प्रदेश 
राज्य के संसदीय निर्वाचन क्षेत्र के रिटर्निंग आफिसर की , ऐसे 
रिटर्निंग आफिसर के कृत्यों के पालन में , सहायता करने के लिए , 
सहायक रिटर्निंग आफिसर के रूप में , एतदद्वारा नियक्त करता 


सारणी 


- 


to 


15 Returning Officer of 15 Personal Assistant to Col 

Ongole parliamentary lector Ongole , 

constitutency . 
16 Returning officer of 16 Personal Assistant to Col 

Guntut parliamentary lector , Guntur , 

constitutency . 
117 Returning Officer of 17 Perşonal Assistant to Col 

Narasur aopet parliamen - Icctor , Guntur , 
1 tary constitutency . 
18 " Returning Officer of 18 Personal Assistant to Cole 

Kavali parliamentary lector , Nellore , 

constitutency . 
| 19 Returning Officer of 19 Personal Assistant to Col 

Melloro ( SC ) parlia - lcctor , Nellore, 

mentary constitutency 
20 Returning Officer of 20 Personal Assistant to Col 
____ Tirupathi (SC) parlia - lector , Chittoor . 

mentary constitutency . 
21 Returning Officer of 21 Personal Assistant to Col 

Chittoor parliamen- lector , Chittoor . 

tary constitytency . 
22 Returning Officer of 22 Personal Assistant to Col 

Rajaimpet parliamen - lector , Cuddapah. 

tary constitutcncy . 
23 Returnng Officer of 23 , Personal Assistant to 

Cuddapah parliamentary Collector Cuddapah 

constituency . . 
24 Returning Officer of 24, Personal Assistant to 

Hindupur parliamentary Collector, Anantapur, 

constitucncy 
25 Returning Officer of 25 Personal Assistant to Collec 

Anantapur parliamentary ctor, Anantapur. 

___ constituency . 
26 Returning Officer of 26, Personal Assistant to 

Kurnool parliamentary Collector , Kurnool. 

constituency. 
27 Returning Officer of 27, Personal Assistant 

Nandyul parliamentary Collector, Kurnool. 
___ constituency. 
28 Returning Officer of 28 , Personal Assistant to 

Nagarkurnool (SC ) par - Collector, Mahbubnagar 

liamentary constiluency. 
29 Returning Officer of 29 , Personal Assistant to 
____ Mahbubnagar parliamen- Collector , Mahbubnagar. 

tary constituency . 
30 Returning Officer of 30 , Personal Assistant 

to 
Hyderabad parliamentary Collector , Hyderabad . 

constituency . 
31 Returning Officer of 31, Deputy Commissioner, Mur 

Secunderabad parliainen - nicipal Corporation of 
___ tary constituency. 

Hyderabad , Hyderabad. . 
32 Returning Officer of 32 Personal Assistant to 

Siddipet (SC ) parliam - Collector , Medak. 

cntary constituency , 
33 Returning Officer of 33 , Personal Assistant to 

Medak Parliamentary Collector Medak . 

constituency . 
34 Returning Officer of 34 , Personal Assistant to 

Nizamabad parliamentary Collector , Nizamabad , 

___ constiuency . 
35 Returning Officer 9f35 Personal Assistant to 

Adilabad parliamentary Collector, Adilabad . 

constituency . 
36 Returning Officer of 36 , Personal Assistant 

- to 
___ Peddapalli ( SC ) parliam - Collector , Karimnagar. 

entary constituency , 
37 Returning Officer of 37 Personal Assistant to 

Karimnagar parliamentary Collector , Karimnagar , 

constituency . 
38 Returning Officer of 38 Personal Assistant to 

Warangal parliamentary Collector, Warangal. 

co stituency . 
39 Returning Officer of 39 Personal Assistant to 

Khemmam parliamentary Collector , Khammam . 
constituency. 


संसदीय निर्वाचन क्षेत्र का 

रिटर्निंग आफिसर 


सहायक रिटर्निंग 

आफिसर 


संसदीय निर्वाचन क्षेत्र का 

रिटर्निंग आफिसर 
1 . श्रीकाकुलम 


2. पार्वथीपुरम ( अजजा ) 


3. बोम्बिली 


4. विशाखापटनम 


कलक्टर का निजी सहायक 

श्रीकाकुलम । 
कलक्टर का निजी सहायक , 

श्रीकाकुलम । 
कलक्टर का निजी सहायक , 

श्रीकाकुलम । 
कलक्टर का निजी सहायक , 

विशाखापटनम । 
कलक्टर का निजी सहायक , 

खम्माम 
कलक्टर का निजी सहायक , 

विशाखापटनम । 
कलक्टर का निजी सहायक , 

पूर्व गोदावरी । 


5. भद्राचलम ( अजजा ) 


6. अनाकापल्ली 


7. काकीनाड़ा 


- 


- - - - 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- - - 


4474 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II — 


. . . . . 


. . 


. - 


. 


- - - - - 


29. महबूबनगर 


30. हैदराबाद 


31. मिकन्दराबाद 


32. सिद्दीपेट ( अजा ) 


33. मेडक संसदीय 


संसदीय निर्वाचन क्षेत्र के रिनिग ग्राफीमर 
8. राज मुन्द्री 

कलक्टर का निजी सहा प्रक , 

पूर्व गोदावरी । 
9. अमलापुरम ( अजजा ) कलक्टर का निजी सहायक , 

पूर्व गोदावरी । 
10. नरसापुर 

कलक्टर का निजी सहायक , 

पश्चिमी गोदावरी । 
11. इलुरू 

कलक्टर का निजी सहायक , 

पपिचमी गोदावरी । 
12. गुडिवाडा 

कलक्टर का निजी महायक , 

कृष्णा । 
13. विजयवाड़ा 

कलक्टर का निजी महायक , 

कृष्णा । 
14. मछलीपटनम 

कलक्टर का निजी महायक , 

कृष्णा । 
15. ओंगोल 

कलक्टर का निजी सहायक , 

ओंगोल । 
16. गुन्टूर 

कलक्टर का निजी महायक , 

गुन्टूर । 
17. नरसारामोपेट 

कलक्टर का निजी सहायक , 


34. निजामाबाद 


35. आदिलाबाद 


कलक्टर का निजी सहायक , 

महबूबनगर । 
कलक्टर का निजी सहायक , 

हैदराबाद । 
उपायुक्त , हैदराबाद नगर 

निगम हैदराबाद । 
क नक्टर का निजी सहायक , 

मेडक । 
कलक्टर का निजी सहायक , 

मेडक । 
कलक्टर का निजी सहायक , 

निजामाबाद । 
कलक्टर का निजी सहायक , 

आदिलाबाद । 
कलक्टर का निजी सहायक , 

करीमनगर । 
कलक्टर का निजी सहायक , 

करोमनगर । 
कनस्टर का निनो मायक , 

वारंगल । 
कलक्टर का निजी सहायक , 

खम्माम । 
कलस्टर का निनो महायक , 

Titif 
कलक्टर का निजी सहायक , 

पालगोंडा । 


36. पेड्डापल्ली ( अजा ) 


37 . करीमनगर 


38. वारंगल 


39 . खम्मेनाम 


18. कवाली 


40. नालगोंडा 


19. नेल्लोर ( अजा ) 


41. मिरयालगुडा 


20. तिरुपति ( अजा ) 


- - - 


- - - 


- . 


21. चित्तूर 


सं० 434/प्रा० प्र०/ 72 ( 2 )] 

प्रादेश से, 
वी० नागसुब्रमण्यन , सचिव । 


22. राजमपेट 


23. कड़प्पा 


कलक्टर का निजी महायक 

नेल्लोर । 
कलक्टर का निजी सहायक , 

नेल्लोर । 
कलक्टर का निजी सहायक , 

चित्तर । 
कलक्टर का निजी सहायक , 

चित्तर । 
कलक्टर का निजी सहायक , 

कडप्पा । 
कलक्टर का निजी सहायक , 

करप्पा । 
कलक्टर का निजी सहायक , 

अनन्तपुर । 
कलक्टर का लिजी नहायक , 

अनन्तपुर । 
कलक्टर का निजी सहायक , 

कर्नुल । 
कलक्टर का निजी सहायक , 

कर्नूल । 
कलक्टर का निजी सहायक , 

महबूबनगर । 


24. हिन्दुपुर 


25. अनन्तपुर 


26. कर्नूल 


MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE 

( Department of Agriculture ) 
New Delhi, the 13th September, 1972 
S . O . 31717. — In exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause ( i ) of rule 4 of the General Grading and 
Marking Rules , 1937, the Central Government here 
by fixes the following charges for Agmark labels to 
be affixed on the containers of Senna Leaves and 
Pods graded under Agmark ; namely 
( a ) When the grading is done in any authorised 
premises in case of Senna leaves. - Rs, 2 .50 per 

bale of 

230 . Kg. 
(b ) When the grading is done in any authorised 
premises in case of Senna Pods. - Rs. 2 .50 per 

bale of 

280 Kg. 
[ No. 13 -19/ 68- C. & M.] 


27 . नंदीयाल 


28. नागरकर्नूल ( अजा ) 


Sec. 3( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 

4475 
- 
कृषि मंत्रालय 

4 , Definition of quality . - The quality of saffron in 
dicated by the respective grade designations shall be 

as set out against each grade designation in column 
( fa fouT) 

3 to 6 of Schedule I. 


76 farsit , 13 ft , 1972 


FOTO 3177– TYTT STUPEUT 

face , 
1937 face 4 v ( 1 ) ITT GT offrait FTTTTT 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार ऐगमार्क के अधीन श्रेणीकृत सनाय की 
पत्तियों और फलियों के प्राधानों पर लगाए जाने वाले एगमार्क 
लेबलों के लिए एतद्द्वारा निम्नलिखित शुल्क नियत करती है , 
TUTTE - 
( + ) a Torta UT FART I 2 . 50 TO gfa 

faut # art # faiaft 230 fio OTO TIE I 
प्राधिकृत परिसर में किया 

TATTI 
( CT ) E tutti qara 2 . 50 tofa 

T utti ar fetitft 230 fefio OTO TİE 
परिसर में किया गया हो । 

F013- 1 9 /68 -FT TE TH 


5 . Grade Designation marks. — The grade designa 
tion mark shall consist of either : 
( i ) a design incorporating the number of the 

Certificate of Authorisation , the word Ag 
mark and the grade approved by the Agri 

cultural Markcting Adviser, or 
( ii ) a label specifying the grade approved by the 

Agricultural Marketing Adviser and bearing 
the design ( consisting of an outline map of 
India with the word Agmark and the figure 
of the rising sun with the words " Produce 
of India " and " wroty 3gra " resembling the 

one as set out in Schedule II . 
6 . Method of marking. - ( 1 ) The grade designation 
mark shall be securely affxed to or printed on each 
container in a manner approved by the Agricultural 
Marketing Adviser . 

( 2 ) In addition to the above, the following particu 
lars shall also be clcarly and indelįbly marked on 
each container, namely : 


( a ) Date of packing in code or plain letters ; 
( b ) Crop year ; and 
( c ) Net weight. 


New Delhi, the 15th September 1972 
S . O . 3178 . — The following draft rules, which the 
Central Government propose to make, in exercise of 
the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural 
Produce (Grading and Marking ) Act, 1937 ( 1 of 
1937 ) , are published as required by the said section 
for the information of all persons likely to be allcct 
ed thereby and notice is hereby given that the said 
draft will be taken into considesration on or after 
the expiry of a period of one month from the date 
on which the official Gazette containing this notifica 
tion is made available to the public . 

Any objections or suggestions which may be re 
ceived from any person with respect to the said draft 
before the date so specificd , will be considered by the 
Central Government. 


( 3 ) An authorised packer may , after obtaining the 
prior approval of the Agricultural Marketing Adviser, 
mark his private trade mark on a container, in a 
manner approved by the said officer , provided that 
the private trade mark does not represent a quality 
or grade of saffron different from that indicated by 
the grade designation mark affixed to the container 
in accordance with these rules. 


7. Method of packing. — ( 1 ) Saffron shall be packed 
in only new and clean tins, glaşs or plastic containers, 
polythenc bags , or any other suitable container . 


( 2 ) The container shall be sccurely closed and 
sealed in a manner approved by the Agricultural 
Marketing Adviser , 


( 3 ) Each container shall contain 
grade designation only , 


saffron 


of one 


8 . Special conditions of authorisation . In addition 
to the conditions specificd in rule 4 of the General 
Grading and Marking Rulcs, 1937, the following 
special conditions shall be observed by packers to the 
satisfaction of Agricultural Marketing Adviser, 
namely : 


Draft Rules 
The Saffron Grading and Marketing Rules, 1972. 

1, Short title and application . — ( 1 ) These rules may 
be called the Saffron Grading and Marking Rules, 
1972 . 

( 2 ) They shall apply to saffron (Crocus satirus . 
Linnaeus ) produced in India . 

2. Definitions. In thesc rules, unless the context 
otherwise requires - 
( a ) Agricultural Marketing Adviser means the 

Agricultural Markcting Adviser to the Gov 

ernment of India ; 
(h ) Schedule means a Schedule appended to 

these rules . 
3 . Grade designations. The grade designations to 
indicate the quality of Suffron shall be as set out in 
column 2 of Schedule I. 


( 1) An authorised packer shall make such 

arrangements for testing saffron as the Agri 
cultural Marketing Adviser may specify by 
general or special order from time to time, 


( 2 ) An authorised packer shall provide such faci 

lities to the Inspecting Officers duly authoris 
ed by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser in 
this behalf as may be necegsary for them to 
discharge their duties under these rules. 


4476 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART IT -- 


- 


- 


SCHEDULE I 

(See rule 3 and 4 ) 
Grade designations and definitions of quality of saffron produced in 


India . 


mman 


Sl. 


Grade designation 


Special characteristics . 
Colour Floral waste Foreign 

content, matter , 
percent , percent , 
maximum maximum 


Matter 
volatile at 
103°c. kby 
weight , 
maximum 


Total Ash insol 

ash " , by in l! el o 
weight by weight 
maximum maximum 


Aqueous 

extract ) 
by weight 
maximum 


Total 
Nitrogen 
by weight, 

maximum 


- 


-- 


(1) 


(2) 


(3) 


(4) 


(5) 


(6) 


(3) 


(8) 


9) 


( ) 


14 


, Deep red 

Light redish 
" to bright red 


8•o * 


1.5* 


550 * 


I . Special . 
2. Standard 

General chara - 
cteristics 


I 


( II ) 


Saffron shall : 

(a) be the dried full , cut or broken stigmas of the plantbotanically known as Crocus sativus, Linneous ; 
( b ) have the characteristicstrong , aromatic , pleasent and slightly iodinated smell- with bitter and slightly pungent taste and be 

free from any foreign taste or smell, specially the musty smell or taste ; 
( c ) be free from living insects , and moulds , and shall be practically free from dead insects , insect fragments and rodent conta 
? mination visible to the naked eye ( corrected if necessary for abnormal vision ) with such magnification as may be necessary 

in the particular case ; and 
( d ) notcontain any added foreign colouring matter . 


Dafinitions : - I. Floral waste : - Yellow filaments, pollens , staments , part of ovary and other parts of the flower of Crocus sativus 

Linnaeus . 
2. Foreign matter : - Sand, earth, dust, leaf, stem, chaff and other vegetable matter. 


- 


- 


NOTE : - * On dry basis, i. e. , moisture and volatile matter fre : basis as calculated from Column 6. Sulphuric acid di phenyl amine 

test determined by standard method . 


SCHEDULE II 

(See rule 5) 
Design for the grade designation mark 

MAP OF INDIA 
Note :- The Tamil and Telugu words willnot occur in the lables in case where commdodities are graded for the purpose of export. 

No. 8 - 2/68- C & M ] 
T . D . Makhijani, Under Secy . 


ऐसी विनिर्दिष्ट तारीख से पूर्व उक्त प्रारूप की वाबत किसी 
व्यक्ति से प्राप्त किन्हीं आक्षेपों या सुझावों पर केन्द्रीय 
सरकार द्वारा विचार किया जाएगा । 


नई दिल्ली, 15 सित्मबर 72 
का० प्रा० 3178 . ~ - निम्नलिखित प्रारूप नियमों को , जिन्हे 
केन्द्रीय सरकार, कृषि उपज ( श्रेणीकरण और चिह नन ) अधिनियम , 
1937 ( 1937 का 1 ) की धारा 3 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का 
प्रयोग करते हुए , बनाने की प्रस्थापना करती है, उक्त धारा द्वारा 
यथा अपेक्षित , उन सभी व्यक्तियों की सूचना के लिए , जिनका 
एतदद्वारा प्रभावित होना सम्भाव्य है, प्रकाशित किया जाता है 
और एतद्द्वारा यह सूचना दी जाती है कि उक्त प्रारूप पर , उम 
तारीख से , जिस तारीख को इस अधिसूचना की अन्तविष्ट करने 
वाला राजपत्र जनता को उपलब्ध कराया जाय , एक माम की 
अवधि की समाप्ति पर या के पश्चात विचार किया जाएगा । 


प्रारुप नियम 
केशर श्रेणीकरण और चिहनन नियम , 1972 
1. संक्षिप्त नाम और लागू होना . -- 1. इन नियमों 
का नाम केशर श्रेणीकरण और चिहनन नियम , 1972 

होगा ; 
2. ये भारत में उत्पादित केशर ( क्रोकेम सटाइवस , लिनायस ) 


पर 


SEC. 3 ( 1) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4477 


- 


- - 


॥ 


2 . परिभाषा . -- - इन नियमों में जब तक कि मंदर्भ में अन्यथा 
अपेक्षित न हो : 


( क ) कृषि विपणन मलाहकार में , भारत सरकार 

कृषि विपणन सलाहकार अभिप्रेन है ; 
( ख ) “ अनुसूची " से इन नियमों से मंलग्न अनुसूची अभिप्रेत है । 

3. श्रेणी प्रभिाधान , केशर की क्वालिटी को उपणित 
करने वाला श्रेणी अभिधान ऐसा होगा जैसा कि अनुसूची 1 के 
स्तंभ 2 में उपणित है । 

4. क्वालिटी की परिभाषा -विभिन्न श्रेणी अभिधानों द्वारा 
उपर्दाशत केशर की क्वालिटी वह होगी जो अनुसूची 1 के स्तम्भ 
3 से 6 में प्रत्येक श्रेणी अभिधान के सामने उपणित है । 

5. श्रेणी अभिधान चिहन . - - श्रेणी अभिधान चिहनन्या तो 
( 1 ) एक ऐसी डिजाइन होगी जिममें प्राधिकार प्रमाण पत्र 
की संख्या “ गमार्क शब्द और कृषि विपणन मलाहकार द्वारा 
अनुमोदिन श्रेणी दी गई हो, या 

( 2 ) एक एमालेबल होगा, जिम में कृषि विपणन मनाह 
कार द्वारा अनुमोदित श्रेणी विनिदिष्ट की गई हो और जिस पर 
अनुसूची 2 में उपणित डिजाइन से मिलती जुलती ऐसी डिजाइन 
होगी (जिममें ऐगमार्क शब्द के सहित भारत के मान चित्र का 
रेखांक और Produce of India भारतीय उत्पाद शब्द माहित उगते 
हुए सूर्य का चिन्न होगा । 


( 2 ) प्राधान पात्र कृषि विपणन सलाहकार द्वारा अनमोदित 
रीति में मजबूती से बन्द और मुद्रावन्द किया जाएगा । 

( 3 ) प्रत्येक प्राधार पात्र में केवल एक ही थेणो अभिधान 
की केशर होगी । 

8. प्राधिकरण की विषेशत- सामान्य श्रेणीकरण और चिह्न 
नियम , 1937 के नियम 4 में विनिर्दिष्ट शतों के अतिरिक्स पकर 
को निम्नलिखित शनों का पालन कृषि विपणन सलाहकार के 
मामाधान प्रद रूप से करना होगा अर्थात् : - - 
( 1 ) प्राधिकृत पैकर केणर का परीक्षण करने के ऐसे 

प्रबंध करेगा जैसा कि कृषि विपणन मलाहकार 
समय - समय पर सामान्य या विशेप आदेश द्वारा 

विनिदिष्ट करे । 
( 2 ) प्राधिकृत पैकर, कृषि विपणन मलाहकार द्वारा 

इम निमित्त सम्यक रूप से प्राधिकृत निरीक्षण 

अधिकारियों को ऐसी सुविधा प्रदान करेगा 
जमी कि इन नियमों के अधीन उनके अपने कर्तव्यों 
के निर्वहन के लिए आवश्यक हो । 
अनुसूची 1 

( नियम 3 और 4 देखिए ) 
भारत में उत्पादित केशर के श्रेणी अभिधान और क्वालिटी 
को परिभाषायें । 


- - . .. - - 


- - - - . 


. - - . 


- 


- 


- । 


- 


- .. 


- 


। 


- . 


क्रम श्रेणी 


विशेष लक्षण 


मं० अभिधान 


रंग 


पुष्प क्षय विजातीय 
अन्तवस्तु , पदार्थ प्रतिशत 
प्रतिशत अधिकतम 
अधिकतम । 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


__ 1 


2 


1 विशेष 
2 मानक 


0 . 5 
1 . 0 


6 . ( 1 ) श्रेणी अधिधान चिहन कृषि विपणन सलाहकार द्वारा 
अनुमोदित रीति से प्रत्येक प्राधान पात्र पर अच्छी तरह से चिपका 
होगा या मुद्रिस होगा । 

( 2 ) उपर्युक्त के अतिरिक्त, निम्नलिखित विशिष्टियां भी 
स्पष्ट और अमिट रूप से प्रत्येक प्राधार पात्र पर चिठिन को 
जायेगी, अर्थात् । 

( क ) पकिंग की तारीख - - सांकेतिक या स्पष्ट अक्षरों में ; 
( ख ) फसल - वर्ष ; और 

( ग ) शुश भार । 
( 3 ) प्राधिकृत पैकर , कृषि विपणन सलाहकार से पूर्व अनु 
मोदन प्राप्त करने के पश्चात् उक्त अधिकारी द्वारा अनुमोदित 
रीति में प्राचार पात्र पर अपना निजी व्यापार चिह्न अंकित कर 
सकेगा , परन्तु यह तब जबकि निजी व्यापार चिहन इन नियमों 
के अनुमार पावार पात्र पर लगाए गए श्रेणो अभिधान चिह न 
द्वारा उशित के गर की क्वालिटी या श्रेणी से भिन्न क्वालिटी 
या श्रेणी को व्यक्त न करता हो । 


गहरा लाला 5 
हल्के साप 15 
से चमकीला 
लाल 


- - - - - . " 


- - - - 


. . 


- ... - - - 


- 


-- 


- - - 


-- 


1030 नं पर वाष्पहीन भार के आधार भार के आधार 
भार के आधार पर प्रति - पर कूल भस्म पर एच सी आई 
गत अधिकतम 

प्रतिशत अधिकतम अविलेप भस्म 

प्रतिशत अधिकतम 


- 


- 


- 


- 


11 


8 . 0 


1 . 5 


- . 


- . - - 


- 


- - 


- 


-.. - .- . 


. . - - - .. 


- . - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - - -- - - 


7. पकिग की पद्धति : ( 1 ) केणर को केवल नए और 
स्वच्छ डिबी, गोशे या प्लास्टिक के अाधार पात्रों में 
पोलीथीन के थैलों में या किमी अन्य उपयुक्त प्राधार पात्रों में 
पैक किया जायेगा । 


परिभाषाएं : 1. पुप्प क्षय : क्रोकस स्टाइक्स लिनायस पुष्प के 
पीले तन्तु , पराग , पुंकेशर अंडाशय का भाग और अन्य भाग । 


4478 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II 


10 


11 


2. विजातीय पदार्थ : रेत , मिट्टी, धूल , पत्ती , उंठल ,. 
भसा और अन्य वनस्पति पदार्थ । । 


साधारण लक्षण 


प्राणियों के संदूषण से 
मुक्त होगी । 
( घ ) कोई विजातीय रजक 
पदार्थ मिला हुआ हो । 


भार के आधार पर भार के 
जलीय निष्कर्ष प्रति - आधार पर 
शत अधिकतम कुल नाईट्रोज 

प्रतिशत 
अधिकतम । 


- 


- 


- 


10 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


55 . 0 


2 


नोट : कृषक आधार पर अर्थात स्तम्भ 6 में गणना के अनुसार 

नमी और बाष्पशील पदार्थ मुक्त सलफ्युरिक एसिड 
डाई-फेनिल एमीन परीक्षा - सकरात्मक होगा । पुष्प 
क्षय अन्तवस्तु मानक विधि द्वारा अवधारित की जाएगी 

अनुसूची- 2 

( नियम 5 देखिए ) 
श्रेणी अधिधान चिहन की डिजाइन 

भारत का मानचित्र 
टिप्पण : :-- - इम दशा में जहां वस्तुओं का निर्यात के प्रयोज 
के लिए श्रेणीकरण किया गया है, लेबलों पर तमिल और सेल 
शब्द ही होंगे । 

[सं० 8- 2/ 68-सी० एन्ड एम० ] 
टी० डी० माखीजानी, अवर सचिव । 


No 


केशर 
( क ) बनस्पति शास्त्र में 
फोकस स्टाइक्स लिन्नायम 
नाम से ज्ञात पौधे के 
मुखे , काटे गए या टुकड़े 
किए गए वृन्त होंगे । 

( ख ) तिक्त और हल्के 
तीखे स्वाद माहित , लक्षण 
सूचक तीक्षण, वासिक , 
मथुर और हल्की अयो 
हीन की गंध की होगी 
और विजानीय स्वाद या 
गंध , विशेष रूप से फफंद 
गंध या स्वाद से मुक्त 
होगी । 
( ग ) जीवित कीटों और 
फफूंद से रहित होंगी और 
ऐमे अवर्धन सहित जैसा 
किसी मामले विशेप में 
आवण्यक हो नंगी प्रांख 
से दिखाई पड़ने वाले 
( असाधारण द्रष्टि के लिए , 
यदि आवश्यक हो , 
ठीक करके ) व्यावहारिक 
रूप से मत कीटों , कीट 
शरीर भागों और कृत्तक 


MINISTRY OFPETROLEUM AND CHEMICALS 

( Department of Petroleum ) 
___ New Delhi , the 14th September 1972 
S . 0 . 3179.- - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that it is necessary in the public nterest 
that for the transport of petroleum from Sanand - 34 
to GGS near SIP in Gujarat State , Pipelines ghould 
be laid by the Oil & Natural Gas Commission; 

And whereas it appears that for the purpose of 
laying such Pipe lines , it is necessary to acquire the 
Right of User in the land described in the schedule 
annexed hereto ; 

Now , therefore, in excrcise of the powers conferred 
by Sub - section ( 1 ) of the section 3 of the Petroleum 
Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land ) Act, 
1962 ( 50 of 1962 ) , the Central Government hereby 
declares its intention to acquire the right of user 
therein ; 

Provided that any person interested in the said 
land may, within 21 days from the date of this noti 
fication , object to the laying of the pipelines under 


Gas Commission, Construction & Maintenance Divi 
sion , Makarpura Road , Baroda - 9 ; 

And every person making such an objection shall 
also state specifically whether he wishes to be heard 
in person or by a legal practitioner . 


SCHEDULE 


PIPELIAE FROM WELL NO . STANWS- 34 (SIP ) TO G .G .S . NEAR SIP . 

Districr : Me hsana Tal : Kalol 


State : Gujarat 


Village 


Survey No. 


Hectare 


Are 


P. Are 


HAJIPUR . 


. 


. 


. 


615 / 3 
615/ I - A 

615 / a - B 
1423 


०००० 


THOL . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


[ No . 11 ( 4 ) / 72 - L & L. ] 


SEC 3( 0 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4479 


अनुसूची 


पैट्रोलियम और रसायन मंत्रालय 

( पैट्रोलियम विभाग ) 
नई दिल्ली , 14 मितम्बर , 1972 


-, - , . .. . 


कुनां संख्या सनद - 34 ( एस आई पी ) से एस आई पी के 
समीप जी जी एम तक पाइपलाइन बिछाने के लिए 

गज्य : गुजरात जिला - महसाना तालुकाः कलोल 
गांव सर्वेक्षण संख्या हेपटर ए पार ई पी ए पार ई 
हाजीपुर 615/ 3 005 

615 / 1 -ए 

615/ ए - बो 0 1586 
थोल 1123 007 

93 


24 


का० प्रा० सं० 3179. ---यत केन्द्रीय सरकार 
को यह प्रतीत होता है कि लोकहित में यह आवश्यक है कि 
गजरात राज्य में सनद - 34 में एम० आई० 
पी० के समीप जी जी एम तक पंट्रोलियम के परिवहन 
के लिए पाइपलाइन तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैम आयोग द्वारा बिछाई 
जानी चाहिए । 

पीर यतः यह प्रतीत होता है कि ऐसी लाइनों को बिछाने 
के प्रयोजन के लिए एतदपाबद्ध अनमुची में वर्णित भूमि में उपयोग 
का अधिकार अजित करना आवश्यक है । 

अतः, अत्र , पैट्रोलियम पाइपलाइन ( भूमि के उपयोग 
के अधिकार का अर्जन ) अर्धाि यम 1962 ( 1962 का 50 ) 
की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उसमें उपयोग का अधिकार अजित 
करने का अपना प्राशय एतद्वारा घोषित किया है । 


बणर्ने कि उक्त भूमि में हितबद कोई व्यक्ति, उस भूमि के 
नीचे पाइपलाइन बिछाने के लिए प्राक्षेप सक्षम प्राधिकारी, - - - 

- - - - -- तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस पायोग , निर्माण और 
देखभाल प्रभाग , मकरपुरा रोड बडोदा - 9 को इस अधिसूचना 
की तारीख मे 21 दिनों के भीतर कर सकेगा । 

और ऐमा आक्षेप करने वाला हर व्यक्ति विनिर्दिष्ट यह 
भी कथन करेगा कि क्या वह चाहता है कि उसकी सुनवाई व्यक्ति 
हो या किसी विधि व्यवसायी की मार्फत । 


[ सं० 11 ( 1 ) / 72 -- लेबर एण्ड लेजिस ] 
New Delhi , the 16th September 1972 
S . O . 3180. --- Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that it is necessary in the public interest 
that for the transport of petroleum from Kadi- 10 to 
Kadi - 4 in Gujarat State, Pipelines should be laid by 
the Oil and Natural Gas Commission ; 

And whereas it appears that for the purpose of 
laying such Pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the 
Right of User in the land described in the schedulo 
annexcd hereto ; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferr 
ed by sub - section ( 1 ) of the section 3 of the Petro 
leum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land ) 
Act , 1962 (50 of 1962 ) , the Central Government 
hereby declarcs its intention to acquire the right of 
user therein ; 

Provided that any person interested in the said 
land may , within 21 days from the date of this noti 
fication , object to the laying of the pipelincs under 
the land to the Competent Authority , Oil and Natural 
Gas Commission Construction and Maintenance Divi 
sion , Makarpura Road, Baroda - 9 ; 

And every person making such an objection shall 
also state specifically whether he wishes to be heard 
in person or by a legal practitioner, 


SCNEDULE 
Pipeline From D .S. Kadi- 10 To Kadi-4 
Dist : 

Mchaşana 


State : Gujarat 


Tal : Kadi 


___ -- -- - - - 


- - 


Village 
--- -- - - - - -- - - - 


Survey No . 
- - -- -- - -- - -- - -- -- - 


P . Arc 


Hectare 
- -- - - - - - - - 


Are 


-- - -- -- 


- 


LAXMIPURA . 


. 


. 


274/ I & 2 
273 

272 
V . P . Cart track 

269/ 2 

1962 
V . P . Cart track 

V . P . Cart track 
- - - - - 


-००००००० 


KADI 


- 


- 


- 


[ No. 11 (3 )/ 72- L & L. ] 


नई दिल्ली, 18 सितम्बर , 1972 


का आ० 3180 , — यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह 
प्रतीत होता है कि लोकहित में यह प्रावश्यक है कि गुजरात 
राज्य में काड़ी / 10 से काडी 4 तक पेट्रोलियम के परिवहन के 


लिये पाइपलाईन तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस प्रायोग द्वारा बिछाई 
जानी चाहिये । 

और यतः यह प्रतीत होता है कि ऐसी लाइनों को बिछाने 
के प्रयोजन के लिये एतद्पाबद्ध अनुसूची में वर्णित भूमि में 
उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करना आवश्यक है । 


4480 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II 


गांव 


सर्वेक्षण संख्या हैक्टर ए०भार०ई० पी ए० प्रार०ई० 


- - - - -- - - - --... - . -. .... 


काडी 1962 


. 


बी पी कार्टट्रैक 
वी पी कार्टट्रैक 


05 43 
.. 02 62 
02 48 


1 


___ अतः अब, पैट्रोलियम पाइपलाइन ( भूमि में उपयोग 
के अधिकार का अर्जन ) अधिनियम , 1962 ( 1962 का 
50 ) की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उसमें उपयोग का 
अधिकार अजित करने का अपना प्राश्य एतद्वारा घोषित 
किया है । 

बशर्ते कि उक्त भूमि में हितबद्ध कोई व्यक्ति , उस भूमि के नीचे 
पाइपलाइन बिछाने के लिये आक्षेप सक्षम प्राधिकारी तेल 
तथा प्राकृतिक गैस आयोग , निर्माण और देखभाल प्रभाग , 
मकरपुरा रोड़ बडोवा - 9 को इस अधिसूचना की तारीख 
से 21 दिनों के भीतर कर सकेगा । 

और ऐसा आक्षेप करने वाला हर व्यक्ति विनिर्दिष्ट यह 
भी कथन करेगा कि क्या वह चाहता है कि उसकी सुनवाई 
व्यक्तिशः हो या किसी विधि व्यवसायी की मार्फत । 


[सं० 11/ 3/ 72 लेवर एंड लेजिस 


S . O . 3181. Whereas it appears to the Central 
Government that it is necessary in the public interest 
that for the transport of petroleum from Well No . 
50 to GGSI in Gujarat State, Pipelines should be laid 
by the Oil and Natural Gas Commission ; 


And Whercas it appears that for the purpose of 
laying such Pipelincs , it is necessary to acquire the 
Right of User in the land described in the schedule 
annexed hereto ; 


अनुसूची 
डी० एम० काडी - 10 से काडी 4 तक पाइपलाइन 
राज्य : गुजारत जिला : मसाना तालुकाः काडी 


Now , Therefore , in exercise of the powerg conferred 
by Sub -section ( 1) of the section 3 of the Petroleum 
Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land ) Act , 
1962 ( 50 of 1962) , the Central Government hereby 
declares its intention to acquire the right of user 
therein ; 


गांव 


सर्वेक्षण संख्या हैक्टर एपार० ई ०पीए पार ०ई० 


- 


- 


लक्ष्मीपूरा 274/ 1 तथा 2 

273 


06 
03 


73 
66 


272 
वीपी कार्टट्रेक 
269/ 2 


Provided that any person interested in the said land 
may , within 21 days from the date of this notification , 
object to the laying of the pipelines under the land 
to the Competent Authority , Oil and Natural Gas 

Commission , Construction and Maintenance Division , 
0 00 75 

Markarapura Road , Baroda - 9 . 
00439 

And every person making such an objection shall 
0 13 73 

also state specifically whether he wishes to be heard 

in person or by a legal practitioner , 

SCHEDULE 
PIPELINE FROM WELL NO . 50 (KFC ) TO G .G .S. I 
Dist : Gandhinagar 

Tal : Gatusdhinagar 


State 


: Gujarat 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Village 


Survey No. 


Hectare 


Are 


P . Are 


SERTHA . 


. 


. 


. 


31 


91 


40 


696 
695 
694 
693 
692 
799 
719 


००००००० 


N 


+ 


० 


II 


[ No. 20 (3) / 87 -TOC / L & L Vol III.] 


का० प्रा० 3181 . - - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि लोकहित में यह आवश्यक है कि गुजरात राज्य में 
कुमा संख्या - 50 से जी० जी० एस० - 1 तक पेट्रोलियम के 
परिवहन के लिये पाइपलाइन तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस आयोग 
द्वारा बिछाई जानी चाहिये । 


और यतः यह प्रतीत होता है कि ऐसी लाइनों को बिछाने 
के प्रयोजन के लिये एतदद्वारा अनुसूची में वर्णित भमि 
में उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करना आवश्यक है । 

अत: अब, पैट्रोलियम पाइपलाइन ( भूमि में उपयोग के 
अधिकार का अर्जन ) अधिनियय , 1962 ( 1962 का 


Sr.C. 3 (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1824 


4481 


- - - -- - - - - - -- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


693 


अन्म ची 


- 


- 


- 


सेरधा 


02 


50 ) की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का गांव सर्वेक्षण संख्या हैक्टर ए आर ई पी ए पार ई 
प्रयोग करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उसमें जपयोग का अधि 
कार अजित करने का अपना प्राश्य गनदहाग घोषित किया 

09 
692 

06 
बशर्ते कि उक्त भूमि में हितबद्ध कोई व्यक्ति , उस भमि के 

799 
नीचे पाइपलाइन बिछाने के लिये आक्षेप ममक्ष प्राधिकारी, 

719 

92 
- - - - तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस आयोग , निर्माण और देखभाल 
प्रभाग , सकरपुरा रोड, बरोदा - 9 को इम अधिगचना की [ संख्या 20/ 3/ 67– पाई०पी० सी० एल०एंड एल० ) जिल्द - iii] 
नारीख से 21 दिनों के भीतर कर सकेगा । 

S . O . 3182 . - Whereas it appears to the Central 
और ऐसा आक्षेप करने वाला हर व्यक्ति विनिर्दिष्टतः Government that it is necessary in the public interest 

that for the transport of petroleum from Well No. 153 
यह भी कथन करेगा कि क्या वह चाहता है कि उसका to GGSV in Gujarat State , Pipelines should be laid by 
मनवाई व्यक्तिगत हो या किसी विधि व्यवसायी को मार्फत । 

the Oil and Natural Gas Commission ; 

And whereas it appears that for the purpose of 
laying such Pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the 
Right of User in the land described in the schedule 

annexed hereto; 
कुंा संख्या 50 ( के एफ क्य ) से जी० जी० एम० I तक 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
पाइपलाइन 

by sub - section ( i ) of the section 3 of the Petroleum 

Pipelines ( Acquisition of Right of User in land ) Act , 
गज्य : गुजरात जिला : गांधीनगर तालक : गांधीनगर 1962 ( 50 of 1962 ) , the Central Government hereby 

declares its intention to ucquire the right of uger 
- . - ., . . - - - 

therein , 
गांव गक्षण संख्या हैक्टर एपार ई पी ए पार ई 

Provided that any person interested in the said 

land may , within 21 days from the date of this noti 
..... - .- - .- - - ..- - . - - - - - - - - - fication , object to the laying of the pipelines under the 

Jand to the Competent Authority , Oil and Natural 
1696 000 

31 Gas Commission , Construction and Maintenance Divi 

sion, Makarpurn Road , Biruda - 0%; 
695 

0 08 

91 

And every person making such an objection shall 
691 

ulso state specifically whether he wishes to be heard 

in prison or by a legal practitioner. 

SCHEDUL); 

PIPELINE FROM WELL NO . K - 153 ( KHH) TO G . G . S . V . 
State : Gujarat Dist : Mohgana 

Tal : Kalol 
- - - -- - - - . - . - - . . . . . 

- -- - - - - - 
Village Survey No. 

Ilectare 

Arc 

P . Are. 
VADABVSWAMI _ _. ... . . ... 

- - - - 

_ 04 _ _ . _ _ _ _ .. . 27 _ _ 
[ No, 20 ( 3 ) / 67 -TOC / L & L - VOL. III .] 

R. N. CHOPRA, Under Secy . 
का० मा० 3182. - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह कारी -- मेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैम आयोग , निर्माण और 
प्रतीत होता है कि लोकहित में यह प्रावण्यक है कि गजरात देखभाल प्रभाग , मकरपुरा रोड , बरोदा - 9 को इम अधिसूचना 
राज्य में कंधा मंख्या 153 से जी जी एग - V नक पेट्रोलियम की तारीख में 21 दिनों के भीतर कर सकेगा । 
के परिवहन के लिये पाइप लाइन तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस 

पीर गेला आक्षेप करने वाला हर व्यक्ति विनिर्दिष्टत . 
प्रायोग द्वारा वि छाई जानी चाहिये । 

यह भी कथन करेगा कि बया बह चाहता है कि उसकी मनवाई 
और पत : यह प्रतीत होता है किमी लाइनों को बिछाने 

व्यक्तिग: हो या किसी विधि व्यवसायी की मार्फत । 
के प्रयोजन के लिये एतद्पाबद्ध अनुसूची में वर्णित भमि में 
उपयोग का अधिकार अजित कर । पावश्यक है । 

ग्रा मख्या के - 153 ( के एच ई ) में जी जी एम V तक 
अतः, अत्र , पैट्रोलियम पाइपलाइन ( भाग में उपयोग पाइपलाइन 
के अधिकार का अर्जन ) अधिनियग , 1962 ( 1992 का गज्य : गजात जिला : महसाना तालका : कमाल 
50) की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 

- - - - - - - - । . - - - 
का पयोग करते हा केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उसमें उपयोग का गांव सर्वेक्षण संख्या हैक्टर ए प्रारई पी ए पार ई. 
अधिकार अजित करने का अपना ग्राहय एतदद्वारा घोषित 
किया है । 

वादव म्ामी 1320 0 27 
बणते कि उक्त भमि में हिनबद्ध कोई व्यक्ति उम भूमि 
के नीचे पाइप लाइन बिछाने के लिये प्राक्षप समक्ष प्राधि 

मार एन० चौपड़ा , प्रवर सचिव । 


- - - - - -- - - 


- - 


- - 


- - - - 


- - 


- - - - . 


. 


- 


- . . - - - -- 


- 


_ 


_ _ . . . . 


__ I32 


- 


. 


- . . 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


. . . . 


. . 


अनसनी 


.. - - 


- 


- 


- - - - 


[सं० 20/ 3/67-प्राई यो नी /एल० एंड एल-जिल्द II ) 


4482 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II 


IL - LL PP 


ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE , PALDL 

AHMEDABAD 

CENTRAL EXCISE 
Ahmedabad , the 15th April 1972 


New Delhi, the 30th August 1972 


S . O . 3183 .- In exercise of the powers conferred on 
me under Rule 51 of the Central Excise Rules , 1944 , 
as Collector of Central Excise, Ahmedabad , the fol 
lowing instructions are issued for the manufacturers 
of power driven pumps falling under Item No. 30A of 
the 1st schedule to the Central Excise & Salt Act, 1944 , 
( 1 of 1944 ) , since it is very expedient for the manu 
facturers of said power driven pumps to design dis 
tinguishing marks for identification of their excisable 
products , 


The manufacturers of power driven pumps shall 
assign the following distinguishing marks on a plate 
aflixed on the pump itself or such distinguishing marks 
may be prominently engraved on the pump - body : - - 


S . O . 3184 . In pursuance of section 106 of the Re 
Presentation of the People Act , 1951, the Election 
Commission hereby publishes the decision dated the 
201h July , 1972 of the High Court of Judicature at 
Patna in Election Petition No. 10 of 1971, 

ELECTION PETITION No. 10 OF 1971 
Sri Mahabir Paswan V . Sri Jagjivan Ram and others . 

Today is the date fixed for commencing the hear 
ing of this election petition . This date of hearing was 
fixed under this Court s order No. 51 dated 4th July , 
1972 . As that order will show , the election petitioner 
wanted adjournment of the hearing of the case for a 
month to enable him to move the Supreme Court 
against the orders of this Court which had been passed 
on the preceding day as also earlier. After having 
heard the two sides though ordinarily I was not in 
clined to adjourn the hearing of the case any further 
in view of its hearing having already been delayed 
but I allowed the petitioner two weeks time from 
that day (4th July , 1972 ) 1o obtain stay orders , if any , 
from the Supreme Court. It was, however, made 
clear in that very order that if the petitioner failed 
to bring stay orders fom the Supreme Court by that 
time the hearing of the case would be positively 
taken up on 20th July , 1972 and the petitioner was 
directed to bring his witnesses , for whom he had 
already taken dasti summons, at the rate of five wit 
nesses per day as already fixed . 


( 1 ) Name of the manufacturer , L4 number and 

situation of the factory ; and 


(2 ) Factory running serial number and year. 
This notification takes effect from 1st May , 1972. 


IN 


[ No , 1 / 1972 .] 
M . K . PUNSHI, 

Collector . 


समाहर्ता कार्यालय केन्द्रीय उतादन शुल्क , पाल्डी, अहमदाबाद 

कोन्द्रिीय उत्पादन 


ARHITTE , 15 


, 1972 


go dto 3183 .- YET , 37967 [ EH 
दाबाद, के रूप में , मुझे जो शक्तियां प्रदत्त की गई हैं , उनका प्रयोग 
Fiat 59, 1944 ( 1944 77 1 ) FT THE F # 
व लवण अधिनियम की प्रथम सूची के उ० क० मद के अर्न्तगत 
आने वाले विद्युत् चलित पम्पों के अभिनिर्माताओं के लिए निम्न 
लिखित अनुदेश जारी किये जाते हैं । उक्त विद्युत् चलित पम्पों 
के अभिनिर्मातामों को , अपने उत्पादन शुल्क योग्य उत्पादों पर , 
पहचान के लिये , मुभित्रक चिन्ह डालना अत्यधिक उपयोगी है । 

विद्युत् शक्ति से चलने वाले पम्पों के अभिनिर्माता या तो , 
ये निम्नलिखित सुभिक चिन्ह पम्प पर लगी हुई प्लेटों पर नियत 
करेगें या ये चिन्ह पम्प यन्त्र पर स्पष्ट रूप में अंकित किये जाएंगे । 


It is to be noted that this election petition was 
filed on 26th April, 1971 and it was admitted on 
13th May , 1971. Several dates intervened in the 
meanwhile on which orders had to be passed on the 
prayers made mostly on behalf of the petitioner , 
Eventually the issues in the case were settled on 7th 
January , 1972 in presence of the parties. Thereafter 
also the case dragged on for several dates in which 
necessary orders were passed regading the prayers 
of the parties. On 4th May , 1972, which was before 
this Court closed for the annual vacation , the hearing 
of this election petition was fixed to commence from 
3rd July , 1972 ( Court opened after the annual vacation 
on 26th June, 1972) . On that day (4th May, 1972 ) the 
petitioner s request for issue of dasti surmons to 
his witnesses, which had already been filed was allow 
ed and they were ordered to be summoned at the rate 
of five witnesses per working day commencing from 
3rd July , 1972 . When the matter was placed beforc 
the Court on 3rd July , 1972, which was the date 
fixed for the commencement of the hearing of this 
case, on behalf of the election petitioner my 
attention was invited to his four petitions, two dated 
1st July , 1972 and the other two dated 3rd July , 1972 . 
After hearing both sides I passed necessary orders on 
these petitions on 3rd July , 1972 rejecting all of 
them . At that very time I also rejected the peti 
tioner s prayer for adjournment of the case. This 
having been done learned petitioner s counsel wag 
called upon to commence the hearing and state the 
facts of the case on his behalf so that recording of the 
cvidence , as fixed from before , could commerce from 
the next day , i.e. 4th July , 1972. Learned Counsel, 


FT FTA , 


ATO 4 FIT TO AMT 


( 1 ) graffam 
कारखाने की स्थिति । 


( 2 ) 474 FT T # T. TITATI 
ufugaar of 1972 am I 

[To 1/1972] 
एम के पुन्मी, समाहर्ता । 


EC, 3 ( ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4483 


however , stated that he would inform the Court next 
day (4th July , 1972 ) as to what stepg he would take 
against those rejections of his petitions. He further 
said that if necessary he would request the Court 
to grant him time to move the Supreme Court against 
them . Since by that time it wus 3. 55 P . M . and there 
was no sufficient time left to take up the hearing of 
the case the matter was left at that place with a direc 
tion to learned petitioner s counsel to come prepared 
on 4th July , 1972 to commence the hearing of the 
case . He was also asked to bring his witnesses in 
Court for their evidence ori 4th July , 1972 ( those wit 
nesses had been summoned for 3rd July , 1972 ) , It was 
also made clear to him that if he liked to move this 
Court for time to go to the Supreme Court he must 
do so in the first hours on the next day ( 4th July , 
1972 ) so that if that prayer was not allowed the hearing 
could commence in time, 

When the case was called out on 4th July, 1972, 
learned counsel for the petitioner informed the Court 
of his decision to move the Supeme Court against its 
orders passed on 3rd July , 1972 as also against some 
other orders passed earlier, and , accordingly , he pray 
ed for one month s time to enable him to move the 
Supreme Court. He was , however , allowed two 
weeks time for that purpose . It is to be noted that 
though those carlier orders had been passed by this 
Court much before but the petitioner never thought 
of going to the Supreme Court against any of them nor 
he ever requested this Court for time to enable him to 
go to the Supreme Court against any of them . 

When the case has been called out today Mr. Gorakh 
Nath Singh , learned counsel for the petitioner hos 
requested for further adjornment of the hearing on 
the ground that as his information goes the petitioner 
is not at Patna but is away to Delhi at present for 
moving the Supeme Court against the above orders of 
this Court. Mr. Singh does not , however , disclose 
any basis for this information . It is submitted from 
the petitioner s side that the other side has also 
consented to the adjournment Mr. Kamala Kant Pra 
ead , learned counsel for the respondent, however , says 
that he has no need for adjournment and is ready to 
take part in the hearing commenced , but if the Court 
is inclined to grant adjournment to the petitioner, ag 
prayed for, he will not stand in the way and it is for 
the Court to decide whether he should be given fur 
ther adjournment in the circumstances . As I have 
already noted , the hearing of the cage was firmly 
fixed for today , i. e . 20th July , 1972 in cage the peti 
tioner failed to bring stay order from the Supreme 
Court by this time. No intimation fom the Supreme 
Court has been received till now by this Court re 
garding the petitioner s having moved that Court go 
far. There ig also nothing from any Advocate of the 
Supreme Court that the Supreme Court has already 
been moved or is about to be moved by this petitioner 
in this matter . In these circustances it is not at all 
possible to accommodate the petitioner any more with 
further adjournment of the hearing . He should have 
realised the importance of the firm order of this Court 
dated 4th July , 1972 under which he was allowed two 
wecks time to enable him to move the Supremc 
Court, as desired , and bring stay order , if any , and 
failing that the hearing would positively commence 
from today ( 20 - 7 - 72 ) . But not to speak of bringing 
any stay order from the Supeme Court there is no 
authentic information placed before this Court on 
petitioner s side to show that he has actually initiated 
any action in the Supreme Court against any of the 
above referred to orders of this Court for which he 
had been allowed two weeks adjournment under this 
Court s order dated 4th July . 1972 . This election peti 
tion having been filed on 26th April, 1971 is by now 
15 months old . Section 86 ( 7 ) of the Representation of 
the People Act, 1951 enjoins that every election peti 
tion shall he tried as expeditiously as possible and 
endeavour shall be made to conclude the trial within 
six months from the date on which the election petition 
is presented to the High Court for trial. It is thus 
manifest that any further adjournment of the hearing 
of this case for which no sufficient ground has been 


made out by the petitioner will amount to adding to 
the delay which has already taken place in completing 
the hearing of this case within the scheduled time. 

On the above facts the prayer for adjournment of 
the case as mude by Mr, Gorakh Nath Singh is reject 
ed and he is called upon to comnience the hearing . I 
am even prepared to accommodate in to the extent 
that he should state his facts of the case , whereafter, 
I shall hear the facts of the other side by his counsel, 
who is present, and commence the recording of the 
evidence of petitioner s witnesses from tomorrow . 
Mr. Singh , however, expreses his inability to take up 
any step today in connection with the hearing because 
of absence of his client and for want of necessary ins 
tructions in the matter and leaves court room to attend 
to his other work . The circumstances , as they are, 
creates an uneasy feeling in my mind that the peti 
tioner lacks the usual enthusiasm of an election peti 
tioner to have the case heard as soon as possible . On 
the other hand for reasons best known to him , he is 
anyhow trying to delay its disposal which is unlike 
an election petitioner whose anxiety normally is to 
have the petition heard without any undue delay SO 
that he can reap the fruit of his success , if any . In 
such a situation , there seems no way out but to reject 
his prayer for further adjournment as done, and to 
dişmiss this election petition for default, which I must 
observe is due to the non - cooperative attitude of the 
petitioner . 

Section 57 of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951, requires every election petition to be tried by 
the High Court as nearly as may be , in accordance 
with the procedure applicable under the Code of Civil 
Procedure 1908 to the trial of suits , subject to the 
provision of this Act and rules made thereunder . 
There is nothing in this Act and rules made thereunder 
it which can bc interpreted as requiring the Court to 
drag on an election petition even if the petitioner 
does not choose to prosecute the petition or lead evi 
dence. In the Bench decision of this Court in Sawalia 
Behari Lali Verma V . Tribikram Deo Narain Singh 
and others ( A . I. R . 1965 Patna 373 ) it has been clear 
Jy laid down that if the petitioner does not take steps 
when thc case is fixed for hearing , it is the inherent 
jurisdiction of the Tribunal to dismiss the election 
petition and the position , indeed , would be a baffling 
one if it were to be laid down that even if the peti 
tioner chose not to prosecute a petition or lead 
evidence , the Tribunal must go on with the case . 


On the facts and circumstances stated above, I dis 
miss this election petition for default of the petitioner . 
In the circumstances of the case there will be, how 
ever , no order as to costs . 


Let the substance of this decision be intimated imme 
diately to the Election Commission of India and the 
Speaker of the Lok Sabha and also send an authenti 
cated copy of the decision to the Election Commission 
of India . 

( Sa ) C . P . SINHA. 

Deputy Registrar . 
[No. 82 / BR / 10 /71. ] 


New Delhi, the 27th September 1972 


S . O . 3188 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 13A of the Representation 
of the People Act, 1950 , the Election Commission of 
India . in consultation with the Delhi Administration , 
hereby nominates Shri Rajnikant, Secretary (Law and 
Judicial) , Delhi Administration , as the Chief Electoral 
Officer for the Union Territory of Delhi from the fore . 
noon of the 23rd September, 1972 and until further 
orders . 


[No. 154 / DL / 72. ] 


4484 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 

( PART JL . 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - 
- - - - - 

- -- - 

- - - - - - - -- - - - - 
New Delhi, the 29th September 1972 

The following dates were fixed by the Election Coni. 

mission for various matters in connection with the 
S . O . 3186. - In pursuance of section 107 of the Rerre aforesaid election - 
sentation of the People Act , 1951 (43 of 1951) , the 
Election Commission hereby publishes the Order , dated 

February 1 to 8 , 1971 – Nomination papers were 
the 6th August, 1971 and 19th May , 1972 of the High 

invited and could be Aled during this period 
Court of Delhi in Election Petition No . 2 of 1971 , 

(both dates inclusive ). 

February8 , 1971 – Date for scrutiny . 
IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI, 

February 11, 1971-- Lagt date for withdrawal of 
ELECTION PETITION No, 2 OF 1971. 

nomination papers , 

March 5, 1971 - Date of poll , if necessary . 
Shri Kanwar Lal Gupta , Ex -member of Parlia 

March 10 , 1971 – Dates for counting of votes. 
ment (Lok Sabha ), resident of 2258 / 62 , Mad 
ganj, Sadar Bazar , Delhi - Petitioner. 

The election challenged by this petition was from the 
Versus 

Delhi Sadar Parliamentary Constituency . 
1 . Shri Amar Nath Chawla , resident of FXV / 7643 , 

The first Issue is : 
Ram Nagar , New Delhi. 

" Whether paragraphe 9 , 12 , 18 to 21 and 24 to 26 
2 . Shri F . R . Khan , resident of 387, Hauz Qazi, 

of the petition or any of them lack in the 
Delhi, 

statement of materiāl tacts and full particu 

lars ? If so , what effect. 
3 . Shri Chuni Lal, r / o XV / 6095 , Gali Basti Mandir 
Sat Narain , Nabi Karim , New Delhi, 

Before I deal with these paragraphs separately it 

may be proper to state the scope of section 83 ( 1 ) ( a ) & 
4 . Shri Ali Mohd . Qabaristan Mandodia , Mir Dard ( b ) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, 
Road , New Delhi. 

hereinafter referred to as the 1961 Act . Section 83 

provides for the contents of the petition and the first 
5 . Shri Jai Parkash , r /0 2281 / 83, Madgan ), Sadar 

requirement of clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 1 ) Is that it 
Bazar, Delhi. 

shall contain a concise statement of the material facts 
on which the petitioner relles. Clause ( b ) of sub 

section ( 1 ) requires that an election petition shall set 
Election Petition under section 80A to 84 of the 

forth full particulars of any corrupt practice that the 
Representation of People Act , praying that this Hon ble 

petitioner alleges , including as full a statement ag 
Court be pleased : 

possible of the names of the parties who are alleged to 
(a ) to get aside the election of respondent No. 1 have committed guch corrupt practice and the date and 
and held that the same is void . 

place of the Commission of each such practice . I may 

here state that it is the contention of the petitioner that 
( b ) to declare that the petitioner has been duly 

the petition does not suffer from any of these defects 
elected to the Lok Sabha from Delhi Sadar 

and that, in any event, particulars have been supplied 
Parliamentary Constituency . 

in the replication Aled by the petitioner . 
( c ) to pass such other orders as required under 

Quite a few authorities have been cited at the bar 
section 99 of the Act. 

bringing out the distinction between "material facts " 
( d ) any other relief which thig Hon ble Court and " particulars " but I do not think it is necessary to 
may deem fit and proper in the circumstances 

deal with all of them as this distinction has been 

brought out and explained by the Supreme Court in 
of the cage. 

Samant N . Balakrishna etc , v . George Fernandez and 
( e ) Award cost of the proceedings . 

others, reported in A . I. R . 1969 Supreme Court 1201. 
The learned Chief Justice has stated : 
" The word material shows that the facts necessary 

to formulate a complete cause of action must 
PRESENT: 

be stated. Omission of a single material fact 
The Hon ble Mr. Justice S . N . Andley 

leads to an incomplete cause of action and the 

statement of claim becomes bad . The function 
For the petitioner : Mr. S . N . Marwaha with M / s . Ashok 

of particulars is to present as full a picture of 
Marwaha and K . C , Dua , Advocates . 

the cause of action with such further informa 

tion in detail as to make the opposite party 
For the respondents : Mr. D . D . Chawla with M / s , M . K . 

understand the case be will have to meet 
Chawla and V . P . Nanda , Advocates . 

There may be some overlapping between 

material facts and particulars but the two are 
JUDOMENT. — This petition has been Aled by Kanwar 

quile distinct. ” 
Lal Gupta to challenge the election of Amar Nath 
Chawla , respondent No. 1. to the Lok Sabha in the 

Again , 
General Elections which were held in March , 1971 . 

" In stating the material facts it will not do merely 
The other contesting candidates are respondents Nos 

to quote the words of the section because then 
2 to 5 . Respondent No . 1, the returned candidate , has 

the efficacy of the words material facts will 
Aled his written statement in which , apart from the 

be logt, The fact which constitutes the corrupt 
reply on merits , several preliminary objections have 

practice must be stated and the fact must be 
been raised . Two of the contesting and defeated can 

correlated to one of the heads of corrupt 

practice. Just as a plaint without disclosing 
petitioner has Aled hig replication to the writton state 

a proper cause of action cannot be said to be 
ment Aled by respondent No. 1 

a good plaint, so also an election petition with 
out the material fact relating to a corrupt 

practice is no election petition at all. 
On July 16 , 1971, four Isgues which were ordered to 

A peti 

tion which merely cites the sections cannot be 
be treated as preliminary Issues were framed and this 

said to disclose a cause of action where the 
order will dispose of the aforesaid preliminary Issues. 

allegation is the making of a false statement." 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


-- - 


- 


Slc . ( 11 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 

4485 
-- - - - - -- 
In a later decision reported in A . I. R . 1970 Supreme respondent No . 1, his election agent, Jai Parkash Goel, 
Court 276 in re : Jitendra Bahadur Singh v . Krishna and other persons printed and published hand bills anu 
Behari and others it was observed that the material posters during the election period containing allegationis 
facts required to be stated are those facts which can against the personal character of the petitioner which 
be considered as material supporting the allegations are set out: 
made. In other words they must be such facts as to 
afford a basis for the allegations made in the petition . 

Paragraph 21 alleges that these posters were pated 

at various places in the entire constituency and were 
As I understand these decisions material facts are 

conspicuously displayed with a view to lower the 
those which constitute the cause of action or in other 

petitioner in the eyes and estimation of the voters of 
words they are l acts on the basis of which one or other 

the constituency and to cause prejudice to the propects 
of the grounds set out in section 100 of the 1951 Act 

of the election of the petitioner . The place where 
for declaring an election to be void is made out while 

these posters were printed has also been mentioned . 
particulars are with rcpect to the material tacts 

In my opinion paragraphs 20 and 21 do not suffer from 
alleged . 

lack of a concise statement of material facts and 
Paragraph 9 of the petition merely asserts that the 

comply with the provisions of section 83 ( 1 ) ( a ) of ihe 

1951 Act . However , full particulars have not been 
election of the respondent No . 1 is void and is liable to 
be set aside by this Court on the grounds which are 

given and I order the petitioner to supply the particu 
enumerated . The grounds enumerated are merely a 

lars as mentioned in the Schedule to this order . 
paragraph oľ some of the clauses of section 100 of 
the 1951 Act without saying anything more . This Paragraph 24 charges respondent No . 1 and Jai 
paragraph is in the nature of a general statement o . Parkash Goel who is alleged to be an active worker 
the case of the petitioner and is connected with sub and agent of respondent No. 1 . It is alleged that 
Sequent paragraphs wherein specific pleas have been meetings were held and in such meetings respondent 
raised with respect to the grounds. It is , therefore , No. 1 and Jai Parkash Goel made statements attacking 
not necessary to consider whether paragraph 9 is or is 

the personal character of the petitioner as are contained 
not in compliance with the provisions of section 83 in Annexure D to the petition which is a poster . In 
( 1 ) ( a ) and (b ) of the 1951 Act and it is not necessary this paragraph also facts constituting the cause of 
to strike off this paragraph either for lack of a concise action have been mentioned when read with annexure 
stalement of material facts or for lack of particulars . D . Therefore , paragraph 24 does not suffer from lack 
The fate of this paragraph will depend upon the tatę of a concise statement of material facts . However , 
o : the other paragraphs in which details of the grounds 

tome further particularg Aro required and they are 
have been given . 

mentioned in the Schedule to this order . 


Paragraph 12 of the petition alleges that the election 
was held on the basis of imperfect and defective elec 
toral rolls and , for this reason , the election of respot 
dent No. I was yold and was liable to be set aside. 11 
is not necessary to decide this Issue in relation to this 
paragraph as in my discussion of Issue No . 2 I am 
making an order that this paragraph is to be struck off 


Paragraph 25 of the petition alleges a contravention 
of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 77 of the 1951 Act which 
provides that the total of the expenditure incurred by 
the candidate at an election shall not exceed the 
prescrlbed limit which in the case of the present 
constituency wag placed at Rs. 10 ,000 / - and the excess 
of expenditure over the prescribed limit is one of the 
corrupt practices as provided by sub - section ( 6 ) of 
Section 123 of this Act for which the election of the 
returned candidate can be declared to be void . 


In substance , the allegations in paragraphe 18 and 19 
of the petition are that invalid and void ballot papers 
which had been treated to a mechanical and chemical 
process were substituted and were counted as valid 
votes in favour of respondent No . 1 . The cause of 
action which is alleged talls within the scope of sec 
tion 100 ( 1 ) ( d ) ( iii) and ( iv ) of the 1951 Act . The 
material facts which have given rise to this cause of 
action are that these invalid and void ballot papers 
had been treated to a mechanical and chemical process 
ag a result of which a mechanically imprinted mark 
appeared on the ballot paper while the mark made by 
the voter disappeared . In other words, the allegation: 
14 that the mark on these ballot papers was not made 
by the instrument supplied for the purpose in violation 
of rule 56 ( 2 ) (b ) and ( h ) of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules , 1961. In my view , the material facts which 
constitute the cause of artion have been given . In so 
far as full particulars are concerned it is alleged that 
they could not be given as the Election Commission din 
not permit inspection of these ballot papers on applica 
tion by the petitioner . Even so , some particulars may 
be necessary and they have been specified in the 
Schedule annexed to this order . 


The allegations in pare raph 20 of tho petition are 
that respondent No. 1 and his election agent incurred 
or authorised expenditure in contravention of section 77 
of the extent of about Rs. 5 lacs while the prescribed 
limit or expenditure is Rs. 10 , 000 / - only . The material 
fact which constitutes the cause of action is the excess 
of expenditure over the prescribed limit and that fact 
is the allegation that expenditure of about Rs. 5 lacs 
was incurred or authorised by respondent No . 1 and 
his election agent. The material fact has thus beeit 
stated in the petition and I do not think this paragraph 
suffers from the absence of a concise statement of 
material facts as contended by respondent No. 1 , I 
therefore hold that the allegations in paragraph 25 fulal 
the requirements of section 83 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the 1951 Açt . 


1, however , find that full particulars of this corrupt 
practice have not been given and I direct the petitioner 
to furnish further particulars as mentioned in the 
Schedule to this order . 


· Paragraph 20 recites some of the corrupt practices 
which are alleged to have been committed by respon 
dent No. 1 , his election agent and other persons with 
the consent of respondent No . 1 or his election agent 
These corrupt practices , shortly stated , are the printing 
and publication of hand bills and posters attacking the 
personal character of the petitioner . It is alleged that 
the statements made therein were false which the 
respondent No . 1 , his election agent and other persons 
acting with their consent believed to be false or did 
hy believe to be true in relation to the personal 
character or conduct of the petitioner which statements 
were reasonably calculated to prejudice the progcent: 
of the petitioner s election . Then , it is stated that 


Paragraph 26 of the petition Alleges that respondent 
No . 1 has not lodged any account of his expenditure in 
relation to the election expenses as required under 
section 77 of the 1951 Act in the prescribed manner 
nor have any accounts been maintained as prescribed . 
It is further alleged that the account lodged by res 
pondent No. 1 was not verifed according to law and 
was not accompanied by original vouchers as required 
under the provisions of the 1951 Act and that such an 
account is no account. This corrupt practice is covered 
by section 100 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the 1951 Act and I And that 
the material facts which constitute the cause of action 
are contained in this paragraph . Even the particulars 
have been furnished because it has been indicated that 


4486 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 19.3.1 

LLARI 11 
- - = = - = - - - - - - 

- -- - . _ i - - - 

-- - - -- - - -- - 
the complaint is that no accounts have been main of respondent No . 1 that the 1950 Act is not mentioned 
tained ; the account Aled is not according to law and in this sub -clauşe . 
original vouchers have not been filed , I do not think 
any further particulars are necessary so far as the 

Now , the olectoral rolls for parliamentary consti 
allegations in this paragraph are concerned , 

tuencies are prepared under section 13 - D of the 1950 

Act and section 15 of this Act provides for the prepara 
I . therefore , hold that none of the paragraphs meri tion of an electoral roll for every constituency. Sec 
tioned in this Issue suffer from the defect of lack of a tion 16 of the 1950 Act specifies the disqualifications 
concise statement of material particulars but the peti for registration in an electoral roll. Section 21 provides 
tioner must furnish further particulars as indicated in for their preparation in the prescribed manner by 
the Schedule to this order with respect to paragraphs 18 reference to the qualifying date and their revision . 
to 21; 24 and 26 . 

Section 22 provides for their correction . Section 23 

provides for the inclusion of names in the electoral 
Issue No. 2 is : 

rolls . The orders made by the Electoral Registration 
" Whether the allegations made in paragraph 12 of Omcer under section 22 or 23 are made appealable by 
the petition are outside the scope of section 100 

section 24 section 30 bars the jurisdiction of Civil 
of the Act ." 

Courts to entertain or adjudicate upon any question 

whether any person is or is not entitled to be registered 
Paragraph 12 of the petition alleges that the clection in an electoral roll for a constituency ; or the question 
was held in the basis Imperfect and defective electoral of legality of any action taken by or under the autho 
rolls and, for this reason , the election of respondent rity of an Electoral Registration Offlcer, or of any 
No. 1 was void and was liable to be set aside. It is decision given by any authority appointed under this 
further alleged that these imperfect or improper elec Act for the revision of any such roll . It is , therefore , 
toral rolls were used in the election despite protests by clear that the preparation of electoral rolls is governed 
the petitioner , his workers and his party . Details to by the 1950 Act and not by the 1951 Act . The 1951 
show that the electoral rolls were imperfect and im Act merely provides the right to vote by section 6 
proper have been given and they are : 

which , inter alia states that it is only a person who is 

and not a person who is not entered in the electoral 
( a ) that names were included in the electoral rolls 

roll of any constituency , who shall be entitled to vote 
on a large scale in violation of the provisions 

in that constituency . Therefore , even though a person 
which are relevant for making inclusion of 

may be eligible to vote he shall not be entitled to vote 
names in the electoral rolls ; 

in any constituency if his name is not entered in the 
(b ) that a large number of applications which electoral roll of that constituency . The right to vote 
were neither in the prescribed forms nor were 

is a personal right which is attached to the person who 
properly Alled nor exhibited as required by the 

is eligible to vote . He can vote only if his name is 
provisions of the Registration of withdrawal entered in the electoral roll for his constituency . If 
Rules and in respect of which no objections his name is not entered , the right to vote of only that 
were invited , were received on the eve of person is taken away and it is for him to agitate in 
election by various Registration Omcers and the manner prescribed by the 1950 Act for the inclu 
the names of such persons, whose applications sion of his name. 
should have been rejected , were illegally in 

The matter is concluded against the petitioner by 
cluded in the electoral rolls ; 

decision of the Supreme Court. The first decision is 
( c ) that just on the eve of electiong a large number 

reported in A . I. R . 1971 Supreme Court 1348 in re : 
of names were deleted from the electoral rolls 

Pumapakari Ravappa Belagali v . B . D . Jatti and others. 
in contravention of the Representation of the Where it has been observed that the ambit of section 
People Act, 1950 (hereinafter referred to as 100 ( 1 ) ( d ) ( iv ) does not entitle the Court in an elec 
the * 1950 Act ) and rules and orders framed tion petition to sct aside an election on the ground of 
thereunder and the Registration of Electoral 

non - compliance with the provisions of the Act of 
Rolls ; 

1950 or any rules made thereunder with the exception 
( d ) that the electoral rolls did not contain the of section 16 of this Act and that in an election peti 

names of several thousand persons who hari tion the correctness of the electoral roll cannot be 
attained the age of 21 years on the qualifying gone into . The Supreme Court approved the view to 
date . 

that effect taken by a Full Bench of the Punjab and 

Haryana High Court in Roop Lal Mehtra v . Dhan 
At the stage of arguments it was slated by the Singh and others reported in A . I. R . 1968 Punjab 1. 
counsel for the petitioner that there was a contraven In an earlier decision reported in A . I. R . 1970 Supreme 
tion of sub - section (3 ) of section 23 of the 1950 Act Court 340 in Regarding : Kabul Singh v . Kundan Singh 
with regard to grounds ( a ) ( b ) ( c ) above and a contra and others the Supreme Court observed that the right 
vention of sections 19 and 21 of the 1950 Act and to vote being purely a statutory right the validity of 
Article 326 of the Constitution with regard to ground any vote has to be examined on the basis of the provi 
( d ) above, 

sion of the Act. After noticing provisions of the 1950 

Act relating to the preparation of electoral rolls it 
Apart from the reply to the said allegations on was observed that these preparation formed a complete 
merits respondent No . 1 pleaded that the allegations Code by themselves in the matter of preparation and 
related to electoral rolls whose legality or correctness maintenance of electoral rolls ; that the entries found 
cannot be gone into in an election petition and it is in the electoral rolls are final and they are not open 
only this aspect of the matter which is to be decided to challenge either before a Civil Court or before a 
under this Issue. 

Tribunal which considers the validity of any election . 
The grounds on which an election can be held vold 

I, therefore , hold that the objections raised in sub 
are set out in section 100 of the 1951 Act and this 

patas ( a ), (b ) and ( c ) of paragraph 12 of the petition 
section does not contain any specific ground to the cannot be the subject matter of this petition . 
effect that an election can be declared voirl if imper 
fect and defective electoral rolls have been used . The 

With regard to the objections raised in sub - para 
argument of the petitioner is that , this ground is ( d ) above, reliance on sections 19 and 21 of the 1950 
available to him under sub - clause ( lv ) of clause ( d ) Act is misconceived because assuming there was any 
of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 100 of the 1951 Act non -compliance of these sections, the non - complicance of 
providing that the result of the election in so as any provisions of this Act cannot be raised as a ground 
it concerns a returned candidate has been materially under section 100 ( 1 ) ( d ) and ( iv ) of the 1951 Act . 
affected by any non - compliance with the provisions of The next argument is that in so far as sub -para ( d ) 
the Constitution or of the 1951 Act or of any rules or is concerned there has been a non - compllance of 
orders made under this Act . It is contender on behalf Article 321 of the Constitution which provides for the 


SLC . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 

4487 
= - = - = - = 

- - - - . . . 

-- -- - - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - 

- 

-- - - - - - - - - 
elections to the House of the People to be on the basis of the actual voting becane visible by the time of 
of adult suffrage ; that is to say , every person who is counting of votes and the effect of the chemicals was 
a citizen of India and who is not less than twenty one that the markings made on the ballots by the voters 
years of age on such date as may be fixed in that be disappeared by the time of counting . It is further 
half by or under any law made by the appropriate alleged that a large number of ballot papers did not 
Legislature and is not otherwise disqualified under this bear the signatures of the Presiding Officers at the 
Constitution or any law made by the appropriate back and as such they were invalid but they were 
Legislature on the ground of non - residence , unsound counted as valid . The petitioner goes on to say that 
ness of mind , ( rime or corrupt or illegal practice , shall a prayer was made to the Election Commission by a 
be entitled to be registered as a yoter at any such petition for inspection of these ballot papers but it 
election , As stated by me already , the right to vote was turned down thereby depriving the petitioner ol 
is a personal right and although the Constitution has an opportunity to prove the truth of his allegations. 
declared that the election shall be on the basis of adult 

It is contended on behalf of respondent No. 1 that 
suffrage the right to vote is subject to the conditions 

barring the allegation regarding the absence of signa 
mentioned in Article 326 years on the qualifying date 

tures of the Presiding Officer at the back of the ballot 
does not conter the right to vote because such a person 

papers , the other allegations regarding what may be 
inay he otherwise disqualified Article 326 of the 

described in short as the employment of a mechanical 
Constitution does not impose an obligation upon any 

or chemical process do not fall within the four corners 
body to include in the electoral roll the name of cvery 

of section 100 of the 1951 Act and cannot be investi 
person who is above te age of 21 years . It merely gives 

gated . It is contended that these allegations amount 
a right to such a person , unless he is otherwise disqua 

to the votes being rendered void and the only grounds 
lified , to have his name included in the electoral roll. 

on which votes can be rendered void or contained in 
There cannot , therefore , be said to be any non - compli 

section 62 of the 1951 Act. This section deals with the 
ance with Article 326 of the Constitution as contended 

right to vote and provides , inter alia , that a person who 
by the petitioner . 

is not entered in the electoral roll is not entitled to 
For all these reasons I hold that the grounds raised 

vote ; that a person who is subject to any disqualifi 
in paragraph 12 of the petition cannot form the 

cations referred to in scction 10 of the 1950 Act shall 
subject matter of this election petition and I order 

not be entitled to vote ; that no person shall vote in 

more than one constituency ; that no person shall vote for 
that paragraph 12 of the petition be struck off . 

more than once in the same constituency and that no 
Then , Issuc No. 3 is in these terms: 

person shall vote who is confined in a prison . In my 
" Whether the allegations made in paragraphs 18 

view this contention has no force . Section 62 of the 
and 19 of the petition are outside the scope 

1951 Act is by no means exhaustive of the votes which 
of section 100 of the Act ? " 

may be void . 

The allegations in paragraph 18 and 19 have to be 
Paragraph 18 contains the allegations that the verdict 

read with the allegations in paragraph 9 in which the 
declared by the Returning Officer is not the verdict 

petitioner has alleged , inter alia , that the result of the 
of the clectorate at the poll and that the defeat of the 

election in so far as it concerns respondent No. 1 has 
petitioner and the success of respondent No. 1 was 

been materially affected , inter alia , by reception of 
the result introduction of fraudulent ballot , say about 

votes which are void or by improper rejection of valid 
a lac or more ballot papers , in a systematic manner 

vote . 
which was facilitated by virtue of the amendment in 
rule 56 ( 1 ) of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 1961. 

In short , the allegations in paragraphs 18 and 19 

amount to saying that the mark on over a lac ballot 
To substantiate these allegutions it has been alleged , - 

papers is a mark made by some mechanical or chemi 
( a ) that it was noticed by the petitioner and his 

cal process and is not a mark made by the voter with 
counting agents that the stamp marks on the 

the instrument supplied for the purpose. These allega 
cow and calf symbol in thousands of ballot 

tions appear to me to fall clearly within clause (b ) 
papers were uniform exactly on the same 

of sub -rule ( 2 ) of rule 56 of the Conduct of Elections 
place and of uniform density and were bright 

Rules , 1961, which relates to counting of votes and 
and fresh as against the stamp marks on the 

which provides that the Returning Officer shall reject 
Deepak symbol which were diffused , dispersed 

a ballot paper iſ to indicate the vote , it hears no mark 
and of divergent density or brightness ; 

at all or bears a mark made otherwisc than with the 
( b ) that on some ballot papers , the stamp ink instrument supplied for the purpose . The theory 

was spread over the whole symbol column advanced by the petitioner has been described as 
as if it had been sprcad by a roller and was fantastic by respondent No. 1. But that is a matter 
due to incomplete or defective trcatment of of proof with which I am not concerned at this stage. 
the paper chemically ; 

If the allegations are true then undoubtedly such ballot 

papers which have been treated by a mechanical or 
( c ) that the colour and thickness of the paper of 

chemical process should have been rejected under rule 
such ballots was different from the other 

56 ( 2 ) ( b ) of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 1981. In 
ballot papers; 

my view the allegations squarely within the pruview 
( d ) that in some ballot papers some faint marks 

of section 100 ( 1 ) ( d ) ( iii ) and ( iv ) taken with the 
appeared on places where they could not nor 

allegation that the result of the election , in so far as 
mally have come as a result of folding of 

it concerns respondent No . 1, has been materially 
the ballots ; and 

affected by a non - compliance of the aforesaid rule . 
( e ) that about a lac of ballot papers bore mark I, therefore, hold that the allegations in paragraphs 

ings which could not be the act of human 18 and 19 of the petition can be investigated in this 
hand but could be the result of a chemical petition . 
process used on such ballot papers . 

The last issue is Issue No. 4 and it Ts in these 

terms. 
On these allegations it is contended that these marks 

" Whether the question about the alleged invalidity 
could not have been put by the voters at the time of 

of the amendment to rule 56 of the Conduct 
polling but had appeared as a result of some mechani 

of Election Rules , 1981 is beyond the scope 
cal and / or chemical process and that quite a large 

of an election petition and not within the 
percentage of chemically treated and mechanicaliy 

jurisdiction of my Court trying the election 
imprinted ballot papers had been smuggled in 

petition .” 
In paragraph 19 it is alleged that as a result of the 

The allegations with respect to this Issue are con 
chemical treatment, the markings of the cow and tained in paragraphs 13 to 17 of the petition and 
calf" symbol which were not discernible at the time relate to the amendment of rule 56 ( 1 ) of the Conduct 


4488 


Siste Indicace with lestie 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 

[Pari Il--- 
- - - . . - - . - -- - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - - -- --- -- -- - - - - - - - - - - - . - - . - - - - - -- - - 
of Elections Rules 1961, and its substitution by a new Is not contemplated by the 1951 Act. As has been 
rule . This substitution was brought about the Central held by the Supreme Court in 1964 Supreme Court 
Government by notification No. S . O . 479 dated January reports 892 in Re: Jagan Nath v . Jaswunt Singh and 
27, 1969 in exercise of the powers conferred by sec others the general rule is well settled that the statu 
tion 169 of the 1951 Act . 

tory requirements of election law must be strictly 

observed and that an election contest is not an action 
In paragraph 13 it is alleged that this amendment 

di law or a suit in equity but is a purely statutory 
had been brought about mala fide by the Central 
Government and Election Commission of India acting 

pluceeding unknow to the common law and that the 

luurt possession no common law , power . It has been 
in consonance with the wishes of the Prime Minister, 

stated in A . I. R . 1952 Supreme Court 64 in re ; N , P . 
Smt. Indira Gandhi. Paragraph 14 reproduces the 
existing and the substituted rule 56 ( 1 ) . Paragraph 

Ponnuswami V . The Returning Officer , Namakkal 

Constituency , that where a right or liability is created 
15 again reiterates mala fides and alleges that the 

by a sutute which gives a special remedy for enforc 
amendment was brought about without following the 

ing it , the remedy provided by that statute only must 
procedural and other legal requirements in contraven 

be availed of any that in relation to elections it is 
tion of the provisions of section 189 of the 1951 Act 
despite the protest of the petitioners party and other 

the sole right of the Legislature to examine and deter 

mine all matters relating to the election of its own 
political parties in the country . Paragraph 18 states 
that this amendment was brought in even though the 

members and if the Legislature takes it out of its own 

hands and vestes in a Special Tribunal an entrely new 
Election Commission and the Central Government 
knew and were aware that it could not be placed 

hud unknown jurisdiction that special jurisdiction 
on the table of either the Lok Sabha or the Rajya 

should be exercised in accordance with the law which 

creates it . It is clear that it is not within the scope 
Sabha they were not in session and that it was made 

of the 1951 Act that an election Court even though it 
obviously with the desire to avoid scrutiny by Parlia 

be the High Court having preexisting ordinary and 
ment to say that the amendment ought not to be made . 

extraordinary jurisdiction can try an election petition 
Paragraph 17 alleges that the action of the Central 
Government was with the ulterior motive to introduce 

r pass orders therein otherwise than in accordance 

with the provisions of this act. The fact that the 
invalid ballot papers which has been treated by a 

High Court tryniig an election petition has pre - existing 
chemical and mechanical process and grounds are set 

urdinary and extraordinary jurisdiction does not effect 
out to show that there was an ulterior motive . 

the matter. The position is some what the same as 
The jurisdiction to try an election petition has been 

of a Hingh Court hearing a reference under the Income 
conferred on High Courts by Section 80A of the 1951 

Tax Act , 
Act . Before the amendment of this act by Act No. 
47 of 1966 , this jurisdiction has been conferred upon 

In the case of K . S . Venkataraman and Co. Pvt. Ltd . 
Election Tribunals constituted under this Act. 

v . State of Madras. ( 60 I. T . R . 112 ) the Supreme Court 
The right to file an election petition is not a common 

held that the authorities constituted under the Income 

Zax Act are not concerned with whether the provi 
law right. It has been conferred by the 1951 Act. It 

sions of the Act are good or bad and the question of 
Is true that High Court have their ordinary and extra 

Ultra Vires is foreign to the scope of its juridiction , 
ordinary jurisdictions. But election petitions cannot 

Having said that the Supreme Court went on to say 
he tried in exercise of these jurisdiction . Therefore 

that as the question of Ultra vires cannot arise in the 
the jurisdiction to try an election petition conferred by 

order of the Income Tax Tribunal, the High Court can 
the 1951 Act is a special jurisdiction and it follows that 

not possibly give any decision on the question of vires 
it has to be exercised in accordance with the provi 

of any provisions of this act while hearing a ref . If 
suons of the statute conferring the jurisdiction . 

the argument of the petitioner that question of Ultra 
Provisions are made in various sections of the 1951 Fires is beyond the scopc of only such authorities 
Act for the presentation of petitions ( Section 81 ) parties which are constituted by the statue and not where 
to the petition (section 82 ) contents of the petition jurisdiction has been conferred upon an existing court 
( Section 83 ) relief that may be claimed by the peti having its own ordinary and extraordinary jurisdic 
tioner ( Section 84 ) trial of election petitions ( Section tion where to be accepted the High Court would be 
86 ) procedure before the High Court (Section 87) entitled to consider the question of Ultra Vires of a 
documentry evidence (section 93 ) secrecy of voting provisions of the Indian Income Tax Act even while 
( section 94 ) answering of criminating questions and exercising its jurisdiction under section 66 ( 1 ) of the 
certificate of indemnity ( section 95 ) expenses of wit Indian Income Tax Act 1922 . It is therefore , clear 
nesses ( section 96 ) recrimination when seat claimed that the fact this High Court has its own ordinary 
( section 97 ) decision of the High Court ( section 98 ) 

and extraordinary jurisdiction would not lead to the 
other orders to be made by the High Court (section 

conclusion that while trying an election petition in 
100 ) grounds on which a candidate other than the re exercise of jurisdiction conferred by the 1951 Act, it 
turned candidate may be declared to have been elected can adjudicate upon the vires of this Act or of any 
( Section 101) procedure in case of an equality of votes rules or orders made thereunder . The election peti 
( Section 102 ) communication of orders of the High tion has to be tried in accordance with the provisions 
Court ( Section 103 ) transmission of order to the of the 1951 Act . 
appropriated authority etc , and its publication (Sec 
tion 106 ) and effects of orders of the High Court 

J , therefore, hold that this Court has no jurisdiction 
( Section 107) provisions are also made for withdrawal in determine the question of vires of the amended 
of election petitions (Section 109 ) procedure for with rule 10 ( 1 ) of the Conduct Elections Rules, 1961. 
drawal of election petitions ( Section 110 ) report of with 
drawal by the High Court to the Election Commission 

In conclusion , as stated earlier , I have for the sake 
( Section 111) Abatement of election petitions ( Ser 

of convenience mentioned the particulars required with 
tion 112 ) and Abatement or substitution on death of 

reference to each paragraph and sub - paragraph in the 
respondent ( Section 116 ) . 

schedule , to this order . These particulars should be 
All these provisions show that while trying an eler furnished to the Registry of this court in writing by 
tion petition the High Court is exercising a limited 

August 19 , 1971, with advance copy to the counsel 
jurisdiction as prescribed and circumscribed by the for respondent No. 1 the petition will be listed on 
1951 Act and it would not be permissible to the High August 20 , 1971, for framing of Tesues on merits on the 
Court to try the petition in a manner other than the please that survive and for further proceedings. 
manner provided or to make orders other than the 
orders provided . There is no provisions in the 1951 

( Sd .) S . N . ANDLEY , 
Act conferring upon the High Court the jurisdiction to 

Judge . 
declare any provisions to be ultra vites. Such an order 


Sec . 3( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 

4489 
- - - - -- - - _ = = 

- - - --- - 
- - - - - - - 

- - - - - - -- 
- - - =- = - - = - - - - ---- - - -- - 
E . P . No. 2 / 1971. 

3 . Shri Chuni Lal resident of XV / 6095 , Gali Basti 
Schedule of Particulars required . 

Mandir , Sat Narain , Nabi Karim , New Deihi. 

4 . Shri Ali Qabaristan Mandodia , Mir Dard Road , 
Paragraph and Particulars required . 

New Delhi. 
Sub - paragraph 
of the petition , 

5 . Shri Jal Parkash , resident of 2281 /83, Madganj, 
IX ( a ) The names of the counting agents of the petitioner 

Sadar Bazar, Delhi - Respondents . 
referred to in this sub -pargarph . 

Election petition under Sectio :. 80A 10 34 of the Re 
19 . The dates on which actual counting took place . 

presentation of People Act , 1951 praying that this 

Hon ble Court be pleased : 
20( a) 

( 1 ) The names and other particulars like rosi 
dences of the other persons" referred to in thi 

( a ) to set aside the clection of respondent No . 1 and 
sub pagraraph . 

hold that the same is vold . 
( 2 ) The dates ; tjme/ and places where the 
impugned statement of acts were published 

( b ) to declare that the petitioner has teen auly elect 

ed to Lok Sabha from Delhi Sadar Parliamentary Cons 
The Domex and other particulare like residences 
of the " other person who printed and pub 

tituency . 
lished the hand bill annexure " al and the 
date / s and places when and where the hand 

( s ) to pass such other orders as required under Sec 
bill was published . 

tion 99 of the Act. 
90 ( a ) ( 1 ) The names and other particulars like addresses ( d ) any other relief which this Ilon ble ( uurt raey 

of the " other agents and workers " referred to eun . At and proper in the circumstances of the case . 

in this suh - paragraph . 
( 2 ) The date s į limes and places where the ( e ) award cost of the proceedings. 

facts in the poster annexure A were rally 
repeated and the date / s ; times and place /s 

This the 19th day of Miny , 1972 . 
of thc public meetings alleged to have been 

PRESENT : 
held . 
( 3 ) The names and other particulars like addresses The Hon ble the Chief Justice 
of the persons who are alleged to have orally 
repeated the contents of anncxure A . 

For the petitioner : Mr. S . N . Marwaha with Mr. 

K . C . Dua, Advocates . 
20 ( 3) (1 ) The name and addrces of the " agent" re 
ferred to in this sub -paragraph , 

For the Respondent : Mr. D . D . Chawla with Mr. V . P . 

Nanda for respondent No . 1 and Mr. C . M . Oberlo for 
( 2 ) The date ; time s and places where the 

respondent No : B ; 
poster referred to in this sub -paragraph was 

published . 
( 2 ) The name of the press where the aforesaid 

Judgment; S . N . Andley ( C .J .) 
poster was printed . 

The petitioner , Kanwar Lal Gupta , has challenged 
( 1 ) Particulars of the “ various placeg " where the 

the election of respondent No. 1, Amar Nath Chawla , 
posters were paated and displayed , 

to Parliament in the mid - term general elections held 

in 1971 . The elections to Parliament prior thereto had 
( 2 ) The names and vther particulars like addresses 

been held in February, 1967, before the expiry of its 
of the other persons referred to in this Ave year term . The President Issued a notification on 
paragraph . 

January 19, 1971, under section 14 of the Representation 

of the People Act, 1951 hereinafter called " the Act " 
The dates, time, s and places when and where 

calling upon Parliamentary Constituencies in the States 
meetings referred to in this paragraph are 

and in ti Union Territories of the Republic of India to 
alleged to have becn held , 

elect members to teh Parliament. The Election Com 
( 1 ) Details of the items or heads of expenses missions of India published the programme for the said 

incurred by respondent No, I in addition to clections as follows: 
the items of heads of expenses mentioned in 

the election Accornt filed by respondent No. 1, February 1 to 8 . 1971 : Period during which nomination 
( 2 ) Particulars of the purpose for which the 

papers could be filed , 
unauthorised expense was incurred (. g. the 
amount has been spent in hiring cars or other 

February 9, 1971 : 

Date for scrutiny. 
vehicles , in holding meetings or publishing 

Last date 

February II, 1971 : 
statements or posters or the 

for withdrawal of 
like. In other 
words full particulars of the amounts expended 

nomination papers . 
together with the particulars of the purpose 
for which these amounts were expended , 

March 5 , 1971 : 

Date of poll, if necessary. 
August 6 , 1971. 

March 19 and II, 1971 : Dates for counting of votes . 
(Sd ) S . N . ANDLÆY , 
Judge. 

Seven parliamentary Constituencies were delimited in 

the Union Territory of Delhi and one of them with 
IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI 
which this petition is concerned is the Delhi Sadar 
ELECTION PETITION No. 2 of 1971 

Parliamentary Constituency which consists of over two 

lacs voters. 
Shri Kanwar Lal Gupta , Ex -Member of Parliament 
(Lok Sabha ) . resident of 2256 / 62, Madganj, 

The petitioner Aled his nomination paper to contest 
Sadar Bazar, Delhi- - Petitioner . 

the election from the Delhi Sadar Parliamentary Cons 
Versus 

tituency havirg been set up as a candidate for the Bhar 
1. Shri Amar Nath Chawla , resident of XV - 7643 , 

tiya Jana Sangh which had been allotted the symbol 

Deepak . Respondent No. 1 contested the election from 
Ram Nagar , New Delhi. 

this constituency ag a candidate of the Congress which 
2 . Shrt F . R . Khan , resident o 387, Hauz Qazi , had been allotted the symbol of cow and calt . Nine 
Delhi, 

other persong Aled their nomination papers but six of 


4490 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 /ASVJNA 29 , 1894 


[ Part II 


- - - 


and full particulars of the allegations in the petition . 
It was urged that the allegations in paragraphs 12 , 
18 of the petition were outside the under section 100 
of the Act. It was further that the question about 
the invalidity of the amendment of rule 56 of the Con 
duct of Elections Rules , 1961 was beyond the scope or 
an election petition and was not within the jurisdiction 
of any court trying an election petition . The following 
preliminary Issues were framed by me on July 10 , 
1971 , on these preliminary objections:-- 
1 . Whether paragraphs 9 , 12 , 18 to 21 and 24 to 

26 of the petition or any of them lack in the 
statement of material facts and full particu 
lars ? It so , to what effect . 


them withdrew from the contest and , as a result, the 
election from this constituency was contested by , 

1. Kanwar Lal Gupta , the petitioner ; 
2 . Amar Nath Chawal, resporident No. 1 , 
3 . F . R . Khan , respondent No. 2 ; 
4 . Chuni Lal, respondent No. 3 and 
5 . Ali Mohd . respondent No . 4 . 
The result of the counting of votes was as follows: 

1. Amar Nath Chawla98 , 108 votes . 
2 . Kanwar Lal Gupta - 55, 305 votes . 
3 . F R Khan - 2,031 votes . 
4 . Chuni Lal – 1, 095 votes . 

5 . Ali Mohd . - 369 yotes. 
The total number of valld votes polled was 1 ,56, 907 
and the total number of rejected votes was 1 ,621 . 
Having secured the majority of votes , respondent No. 
1 was declared elected to Parliament from the Delhi 
Sadar Parliamentary Constituency . 

The election of respondent No . 1 is sought to be 
challenged on the ground that he committed various 
corrupt practices. It was alleged that Jai Parkash Goel , 
who was not a contesting candidate , was also guilty 
of corrupt practices and he was impleaded in this 
petition as respondent No . 5 . 

In paragraph 9 of the petition , a gummary of the 
grounds on which the election of respondent No. 1 was 
sought to be set aside is given and it is stated that 
corrupt practices have been committed by respondent 


of the petition are outside the scope of section 

100 of the Act ? 
3 . Whether the allegations made in paragraph 18 

and 19 of the petition are outside the scope 

of section 100 of the Act ? 
4 . Whether the question about the alleged invalidi 

ty of the amendment to rule 56 of the Conduct 
of Elections Rules 1961, is beyond the scope of 
an election petition and not within the jurisdic 

tion of any Court trying the election petition . 
These preliminary işsues were decided by my order 
dated August 6 , 1971. On Issue No . 1 , I held that “ None 
of the paragraphs mentioned in this issue suffer from 
the defect of lack of a concise statement of material 
particulars but the petitioner must furnish further 
particulars as indicated in the Schedule to this order 
with regpect to paragraphs 18 to 21; 24 and 25 " . Such 
particulars have been furnished by the petitioner, On 
Issue No. 2 , I held that " the grounds raised in para 
graph 12 of the petition cannot form the subject matter 
of this election petition , and paragraph 12 of the peti 
tion was ordered to be struck off . On Issue No . 3 , I 
hela that " the allegations in paragraphs 18 and 19 of 
the petition can be investigated in tels petition ." On 
Issue No. 4 , I held that " this Court has no Jurisdiction 
to determine the question of vires of the amended rule 
36 ( 1 ) of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 1981. " It may 
be stated that the petitioner Aled an application for 
review of this order in go far as it related to the 
averments made in paragraph 12 of the petition and 
this application was dismissed by me by my order 
dated August 27 , 1971 . 

On August 4 , 1971, the petitioner Aled I. A . No. 1150 
of 1971 for proper cunstody and inspection of the 
ballot papers . While this application was pending , 
Issues on merits were framed by me on September 3 , 
1971 and these are : 
1. Whether about a lac or more. fraudulent ballot 

papers were found at the time of counting to 
have been introduced as alleged in paragraph 

18 of the petition ? 
2 . Whether these ballot papers were implanted 


the consent of respondent No. 1 or his election agent 
and that the result of the election is so far ag it con 
cerned respondent No . 1 has been materially affected 
by corrupt practices committed in the interest of res 
pondent No . 1 by agents and other persons other than 
his election agent; by reception of votes which were 
vold ; by improper rejection of valid votes and by non 
compliance of the provisions of the Constitution ; of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1950 ; of the Repre 
sentation of the People Act, 1951 and the rules and 
orders framed and made under the said Acts . The 
details of these grounds are given in paragraph 12 ; 
14 , 18 to 21 and 24 to 26 of the petition . Shortly stated , 
it was alleged in paragraph 12 of the petition that the 
election had been held on the basis of Imperfect and 
defective electoral rolls ; it was alleged in paragraph 14 
of the petition that the amendment made in rule 56 
of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 1961, was mala fide 
and , therefore , invalid ; it was alleged in paragraphs 
18 and 19 of the petition that about alac or more ballot 
papers which had been chemically and mechanically 
treated had been fraudalently introduced ; it was alleg 
ed in paragraphs 20 and 21 of the petition that respon 
dent No, 1 , his election agent and other persons with 
his consent including Jai Parkash Goel ( respondent 
No . 5 ) had printed and published a handbill and a 
poster containing statements in relation to the personal 
character or conduct of the petitioner which were false 
and which these persons did not believe to be true and 
which statements were reasonably calculated to pre 
judice the prospects of the petitioner e election ; it was 
alleged in paragraph 24 of the petition that these state 
ments were repeated by respondent No. 1 and res 
pondent No. 5 in public meetings and also orally during 
the course of canvassing and in paragraphs 25 and 26 
of the petition it was alleged that respondent No. 1 
and incurred or authorised expenditure in contraven 
tion of section 77 of the Act over the prescribed limit 
of Rs. 10 , 000 . On these allegations it was prayed that 
the election of respondent No. 1 may be held to be 
void and set aside ; that the petitioner may be des 
clared to have been duly elected to Parliament and 
other orders as required under section 9 of the Act 
be passed . 

Written statements were filled on behalf of respon 
dents No . 1 , 2 and 5 but this petition has been contest 
ed only by respondents No . 1 and 5 . In the written 
statement, certain preliminary objections were raised 
by respondent No . 1 regarding lack of material facts 


tioned inspections 
pendere 


petition ? 
3 . Whether these ballot papers had been 
cally treated ? 


chemi 


4 . Whether As a result of the alleged chemical 

treatment. the markings on the cow and call 
symbol which were indiscernible at the time 
of actual voting became visible by the time 
of counting of votes as alleged in paragraph 

19 of the petition ? 
5 . Whether the effect of the alleged use of chemi 

cals was that the markings made by the voter 
on the ballot paper disappeared by the time 
of counting of votes as alleged in paragraph 

19 of the petition . 
6 . On proof of any of the above Issues whether 

these votes were rendered void ? 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


SEC , 3 (11) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 

4491 
= = . .. - - - ---- - - - - - - - - 

- -- - - - -- - - - - 

- - - - - - - - 
7, On proof of any of the above Issues, whether sult of this order was that the petitioner was held 

the result of the election in so far as respon disentitled to lead any evidence on Issues Nos. 1 to 7 . 
dent No. 1 is concerned has been materially I, therefore, directed that the parties shall lead 
affected ? 

evidence on the remaining Issues. Considerable evi 
8 . Whether respondent No. 1 his election agent dence has been led by the petitioner and respondent 
and other persons with the consent of res 

No , I and respondent No. 5 has appeared as his own 
pondent No , l or hig election agent committed witness . The counsel for these three parties have 
the corrupt practice as alleged in paragraphs 

addressed oral arguments . 
20 and 21 of the election petition ? 

The petitioner has first taken up arguments on Issue 
Note : Evidence as to these corrupt practices and 

No. 10 which relates to the incurring or authorising 
as to the other persons will be confined to 

by respondent No. 1 of expenditure beyond the preg 
the particulars furnished by the petitioner in 

cribed limit of Rs. 10 , 000 / - in contravention of sec 
compliance of my order dated August 6 , 1971. 

tion 77 of the Act and thereby committing the corrupt 
9 . Whether respondent No. 1 and Jai Parkash practice contemplated by section 123 ( 6 ) of the Act. 

( respondent No . 5 ) with his consent held This Issue is bassed upon paragraph 25 of the peti 
meetings wherein the statement mentioned tion which states : 
in annexure B to the petition was repeated 

" That the respondent No. 1 incurred or authoris 
at public meetings and orally during canvass 

ed the expenditure in contravention of sec 
ing in the constituency as alleged in Fara 

tion 77 of the Act and thereby committed 
graph 24 of the petition ? 

Corrupt practice falling under section 123 ( 6 ) 
Note : The proof of these allegations will wc con 

of the Act. Prescribed limit of expenditure 
fined o the particulars furnished by the peti 

is Rs. 10 ,000 , - for a Parliamentary Consti 
tioner in compliance of iny order dated 

tuency in the Union Territory of Delhi while 
August 6 , 1971 

the respondent No. 1 has incurred an expen 
10 . Whether reguondent No. 1 incurred or authoris 

diture of over Rs. 5 lakhs." 
ed the expenditure beyond the prescribed 

In paragraph 25 of his written statement, respon 
limit of Rs. 10 , 000 / - in contravention of 
section 77 of the Represer. tation of the Peo 

dent No. 1 has a verred that he has lodged true, full 

and correct account of election expenses supforted 
ple Act , 1951 and thereby committed the 
corrupt practice under 

the pres 
by vouchers with the Returning Officer in 
section - 123 (6 ) of the 

cribed form as required by rule 86 of the Conduct of 
Act as alleged in paragraph 25 of the peti 

Election Rules, 1961 and as provided in elections 77 
tion ? 

and 78 of the Act. It was further pleaged that no 
Note : The proof of these allegations will be con details or particulars of the alleged expenditure by 

fined to the particulars furnished by the peti respondent No. 1 of over Rs. 5 lakhs had been given . 
tioner in compliance of my order dated Aug. In the particulars furnished in purguance to my order 
6 , 1971, 

with reference to this allegation , the petitioner has 
11. Whether respondent No. 1 has not lodged any alleged that respondent No. 1 had , in fact , spent 

account of hig expenditure in relation to the amounts tar in execess of the amounts as mentioned in 
election expenses in the prescribed manner the statement of expenses. The details of these parti 
as required by section 77 of the Representa culars are : 
tion of the People Act, 1951 ? If so , to what 
effect ? 

i Stationery , , R4, 5 ,000 /- over and above the 

declared amount of Rs. 22 . 5o . 
12. Whether respondent No. 1 has not maintained 
Or lodged the account required by section 77 

2 . Perrol . . . Rs. 25 ,000 / - oyer and above the 
of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, 

declared annount of Rs . 509 - 39. 
in the prescribed manner and has incurred 
disqualification disentitling him to continue 
As a member of the House of the People 

3 . Electricity and loud 

. . . Rs 10 , 000 /- over and above the 
Whether the account lodged by respondent 

declared amount of Rs. 182 50 . 
No . 1 is not verified according to law and is 

4 . Tent and furniture Rs. 50 ,000 /- over and above 
not accompanied by original voucherg ? If so , 

the declared amount of 
to what effect ? 

Rs. 620 ) , 
14. Whether any orders are required to be passed 

5. Flags, banners and Rs. 50 ,000 / - over and above the 
against respondent No . 5 under section 99 ( 1 ) 

badges , , 
of the Representation of th People Act, 1951, 

declared amount of Rs. 718 / 
if the allegatioris of corrupt practices against 

6 . Telcphone . . , Rs. 5 , 000 / - over and above the 
him are proved ? 

declarcat amount of R ... 46 : 1 - . 


om 


speaker 


7. Printing handhill , and R .,. 1, 50 , 000 ovzr ai d above 
blocks 

the declared amount of 

Rs. 265. 18 . 
8 . Hiring of taxis and Rs. 1, 00 , 000 / - over and atoyc 
scooters . . . the declared amount of 

Rs. 265: 18 . 


9 . Food 


Rs. 25 ,000/ - over and above 

the declared amount of 
Rs. 60 / 


As will be seen , the first seven Issues related to 
about a lac or more ballot papers being void on the 
ground that they have been implanted after having 
been subjected to a chemical treatment as result of 
which the markings made by the voters on the ballot 
papers disappeared by the time of counting of votes , 
By my order dated September 3 . 1971, the applica 
tion for production , custody and inspection of ballot 
papers was disposed of and apart from giving direc 
tions as to the custody of the ballot papers , I made an 
order for a general inspection of the ballot papers on 
the terms contained in this order . Respondent No . 1 
Alled an appeal against the order for inspection in 
the Supreme Court which was disposed of on October 
22 , 1971. Shortly stated , the Supreme Court allowed 
a limited inspection of about 600 selected ballot 
papers on examination of which I was to decide whe 
ther a further probe was necessary . The implemen 
tation of the order took some time and ultimately I 
found by my order dated November 15 , 1971 , that a 
further probe was not necessary . The inevitable re 


10 , 260 polling booths 


Rx. 50 /- per polling hooth , 

apart from payment of chart 
age and to workers for chairs , 
tables , shamianas , durrics , 
iced water , estables and 
entertaininent . 


11. Prime Minister s meet- Ry . 900 - on garlands alone . 
ing. 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Rs. 


4492 ILT GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 

[ PART II 
- - - - - - - - - - 

- - --- - - -- 
12 , Public And Corner R . 300 / - per mecling for and 2 Chadarg for each of the 12 meetings at an ag tre 

mcetirgs numbering durries , garlands, chairs , gate charge of Rs. 15 / - per meeting but the places 
about 200 . banners, ant posters . 

where the meetings are held are not specified in the 

bill. The charge for each durri is 0 - 50 palse ; for each 
13 . Distribution of hund - Rs. 1, 00 , 000 / 

Takhat 0 . 50 paise and for each Chadar Re . 1 / - and the 
bills ; payting of posters , 

consolidated charge of Rs. 15 / - per meeting includes 
printing of poytery in 

cartage According to respondent No. 1 and Bhag Mal 
cluding paper for 35 

Tandan (RIW . 14 ) , the proprietor of Tandan Tent and 
poyler s and 69 Hand 

Furniture House . It is the further case of respondent 
bills , 

No. 1 that Sainl Electric Worke supplied loudspeakers 
and also furnished the light arrangements for these 

12 meetings on a consolidated charge of Rs. 180 / - AS 
The details of these were given as under : -- 

per the receipt ( xhibit R . 27 ) dated March 4 , 1971 , 
Aled by respondent No. 1 with his return of election 

expenses. For the remaining 11 meetings , the furniture 
I, Printing or identity slips, posters and hand 
bills including cost of paper; cost of distri 

and electric equipment were supplied by Agarwal, Tent 

Housę as per their bill -cum - receipt dated April 7 , 1971 
bution and pasting . 

75 ,000 / 

( Exhibit R . 26 ) . This bill states that Agarwal Tent 

House supplied for each meeting one Takhat 6 x 3 
Expenses on public incetings and correr 

four durtles ; two Chandnis ; one microphone and tour 
moetings including expenses on low 

flood lights for a total amount of Rs. 400 / - including 
speakery , stage , light , durtics , announce 

Rs. 100 / - for cartage and Rs. 40 / - as labour charges for 
monts , si : glify . 

50 000l. . 

removing the goods at night. Some of the places 

where the goods were supplied are mentioned in this 
3 . Ex - 0403 on chavcyance incl ling polling 

bill ag Sabzimandl; Andha Mugal; Gulabi Bagh ; Sadar 
day to bring yuters lo the polling booths 

Bazar and then the bill stated " eto " . It further states 
by using 300 [axis and 500 scooters on the 

that these goods were supplied during the month of 
polling day . 

44 ,500 / 

February , 1971. 
Flags banners , plucards, stencils on walls , 

The case of the petitioner is that altogether respon 
badges including cluih , rulli and bamboog 

dent No. 1 held 40 and 50 meetings and about 150 corner 

40,000 / 
etc . 

meetings which were lavishly furnished and which 
Shamiana9, durries , chairs , cables, fans 

according to the petitioner and his witnesses would 
iced water, food cic. provided on the day 

have cost hundreds of rupees per meeting . 
of polling on all polling booths 

40,000 /-, 

The first point to be determined in the number of 
Expenses incurred for the purchase of yotey 

meetings which were held by respondent No. 1, The 
and providing country -made liquor to the 

details of the 23 meetings are given by respondent No . 1 
vocery on the day of polling 

. 75 , 000 /- , 

in his statement on March 31, 1972 These details 

are : 
Expenacs incurred on engagement of 
workers 

75, 000 / - . 

1 . Malkaganj; 

2 . Roshanara Road ; 
Expenses on food , postage and other miscel 

3 . Two meetings at Clock Tower Sabzimandi. 
lanouds expenses , garlands erc . . . . 48 , 500 / - . 

4 . Two meetings at Chowk Chhe Tooti 

5 . Chuna Mandi 
Application fee for candidature deposited 

6 . Tel Mandi, 
with Delhi Pradesh Congress 

7 . Lachhmanpurt 
Cominittee . . . . . 1 ,000 / -. 

8 . Katra Karim . 
10 . Prime Minister s niyeting . . . . 

9 . Neemwala Chowk . 
50,000 /-, 

10 . Narayan Market . 
II. Permanent perjonal telcphones . 

11. Bagichi Tatu Shah 
1, 000 /- . 

12 , Qasabpura . 

13 . Bara Tooti 
The reply of respondent No. 1 with regard to these 

14 . Deputyganj, 
alleged expenses is short . He states that the so - called 

15 . Two meetings at Teliwara , 
particulars are bogus and coked up and the petitioner 

16 . Kishanganj. 
has acted reckessly in giving the alleged figures of 

17. Two meetings at Andha Mugal 

18 . Nangia Park . 
expenditure which are altogether fictitious. 

19 . Birla Mills . 
During the courses of arguments , the petitioner has 
not supported the tall claims made by him in his 

It is the further case of respondent No . 1 that one of 
particulars . I will now proceed to deal with the peti 

the meetings at Tellwara which was 
tioner s case in this Issue with reference to the various 

announced for 

February 24 , 1971, was cancelled because of a fire in 
items of expenditure . 

the neighbourhood but admittedly the furniture etc . 

had been supplied for this meeting . 
The Arst subject on which the petitioner has address 
ed his arguments in the number of meetings of respon 
dent No. 1 and the expenses thereon incurred by him , 

The petitioner s claim of 40 to 50 meetings was not 
The case of respondent No . 1 is that in February and adhered to in arguments and it is claimed that in 
upto March 2 , 1971 , 22 meetings had been held on his 

addition to these admitted meetings, there were 9 other 
behalt on which he incurred the expenses. He admits 

meetings held by respondent No . 1 and these are : 
having incurred the expense for the furniture etc. for 

1. One meetings at Bagichi Tau Shah on 15th 
these meetings which he arranged through ( 1 ) Tandan 

February , 1971 . 
Tent and Furniture House ; ( 2 ) Saini Electric Works 

2 . One meeting at Clock Tower , Sabzimandi, op 
and ( 3 ) Agarwal Tent House. He has produced the 
bill of Tandan Tent and Furniture House (Exhibit 

18th February , 1971. 
R . 25 ) for Rs. 180 / - for 12 meetings held between 

3. One meeting at Qasabpura on 18th February , 
February 20 , 1971 and March 2 , 1971. According to 

1971. 
this bill (Exhibit R . 25 ) dated March 4 , 1971, Tandan 

4 . One meeting at Tel Mandi on 19th February . 
Tont and Furniture House gupplied 20 durrles , 6 Takhats 

1971 . 


Sec. 3 ( 1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1994 

4493 
- -- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - 
5 . One meeting at Chuna Mandi on 17th February , 7. On 2nd March , 1971 at Ara Kashan Lachhman 
1971 . 

puri 
6. One meeting at Multani Dhanda on 18th Febru 
ary, 1971, 

These meetings are admitted by respondent No. 1 in 

his statement on March 31, 1972 . In addition to these 
7. One meeting at Chowk Saghara on 18th Febru admitted meetings, the list ( Exhibit P . W . 7 / 1 ) nventions 
ary, 1971 . 

that a meeting scheduled to be held at Chuna Mandi on 
8 . One meeting at P Block Andha Mugal on ist 17th February , 1971 was cancelled . It further mențions 
March , 1971. 

a meeting at Multani Dhanda on 18th January, 1971 in 
9 . One meeting at Lachhmanpuri Chowl on 2nd 

respect of which it is stated that T . Sohan Lal, a 
March , 1971. 

Congress candidate for election to Parliament from the 

Karol Bagh Constituency , was one of the speakers . It 
It is an admitted case or the parties that for holding 

is the case of respondent No . 1 that this meeting must 
meetings in Delhi, permission of the sub divisional have been a meeting organised by T , Sohan Lal and 
magistrate of the Ilaga concerned had to be obtained . 

was not a meeting organised by respondent No. 1 . Om 
The entire Delhi Sadar Parliamentary Constituency is 

Parkash Marken ( RIW . 1 ) , admittedly a worker of 
covered by four police stations, namely ( 1 ) Police respondent No. 1 , has denied in his statement dated 
Station Roshanara Road ; ( 2 ) Police Station Paharganj 

February 7 , 1972 , any meeting of respondent No. 1 at 
( 3 ) Police Station Sabzimandi and ( 4 ) Police Station Multani Dhanda on 18th February, 1971. He has also 
Sadar Bazar . Police Officers posted at these four police 

stated that the area of T . Sohan Lal also fell in Multani 
stations were examined by the petitioner himself, From Dhanda in the jurisdiction of police station Paharganj 
the registeres maintained by their respective police and that he might have held this meeting for his own 
stations, they prepared lists of the meetings which were 

election . It appears to me that the case of respondent 
arranged within the jurisdiction of their respective 

No. 1 that he did not hold any meeting on 18th Febru 
police stations by various political parties. Although 

ary, 1971 at Multani Dhanda is correct. The list ( Ex 
several other witnesses have spoken orally about the hibit PW . 7 / 71 ) also shows that meetings which were 
places and dates where meetings were held by respon 

scheduled to be held at Multani Dhanda on 22nd Febru 
dent No . 1 , there is reliable conclusive documentery 

Ary , 1971; at Ara Kashan on 27th February , 1971 and 
evidence from the records of these police stations Lachhmanpuri on 1st March , 1971 were cancelled . 
about the places where the meetings were held . 

Lastly , Ram Murti Sharma (PW . 8 ) who was posted 
Khem Raj Dutt ( PW . 1 ) is the Station House omcer at police station Subzimandi haş Aled a list (Exhibit 
of police station Roshanara Road . He has Aled a list PW 8 / 3 ) of meetings held by respondent No. 1 within 
of the meetings held by respondent No. 1 which is the jurisdiction of this police station . These meetings 
Exhibit PW . 1 / 1. According to this list , the following are : 
two meetings were held by respondent No. 1 within the 

1. On 16th February, 1971 at Clock Tower, Sabzi 
jurisdiction of this police station 

mandi, 
1. On 23rd February , 1971 at Nangla Park . 

2. On 16th February, 1971 at K Block Andha 
2. On 24th February , 1971 at Birla Mills compound , 

Mughal 
These two meetings are admitted by respondent No. 1 

3. On 19th February , 1971 at Roshanara Road . 
in his statement dated March 31, 1972 . to be his meet 

4. On 1st March , 1971 at P Block Andha Mughal, 
Ings. 

5. On 23rd February , 1971 at Malkaganj. 
Ramesh Chand ( PW . 6 ) is posted at police station 

6 . On 2nd March , 1971 at Ghantaghar Subzimandi. 
Sadar Bazar . He has also Aled a list (Exhibit PW . 6 / 5 ) 
of meetings held within the jurisdiction or the Sador 

All these meetings are admitted by respondent No. 1 
Bazar police station . One part of the list pertains to 

in his statement dated March 31 , 1972. 
meetings of the Congress ; another to meetings of the 
Jane Sangh and the third to meetings of other political 

According to these four lists ( Exhibit PW . 1 / 71 ) ; 
parties. According to this list , respondent No . 1 held Exhibit PW . 6 / 5 ; Exhibit PW . 7 / 1 and Exhibit PW . 8 / 1. 
the following meetings: 

the total meetings held by respondent No . 1 are 22 and 
1. On 13th February , 1971 at Kishanganj. 

if the cancelled meeting of Tellwara on 24th February , 

1971 is added , the case of respondent No. 1 that he had 
2. On 15th February , 1971 at Baichi Tatu Shah . 

arranged 23 meetings stands proved . 
3. On 18th February , 1971 at Qasabpura . 

I will now deal with the other witnesses on whöge 
4 . On 20th February , 1971 at Chowk Bara Tooti. 

evidence the petitioner relies to show that meetings in 
5 . On 21st February, 1971 at Deputy Ganj. 

addition to the 23 meetings admitted by respondent 
6 . On 21st February , 1971 at Tellwara . 

No. 1 and as proved by the aforesaid four lists were 

held by him . These witnesses belong to the C . I. D . 
7. On 25th February, 1971 at Narayan Market. 

( Special Branch ) , Delhi, Mahinderpal Singh ( PW , 20 ) 

is an Inspector in the C . I, D . (Special Branch ) at Delhi. 
These meetings are admitted by respondent No . 1 in 

He stated that during the election period his statt used 
his statement dated March 31 1972 . The list (Exhibit 

to cover election meetings and that the meetings held 
P . W . 8 / 5 ) also mentions that a meeting was scheduled 

by respondent No. 1 were also covered . He further 
to be held on 24th February , 1971 at Teliwara but 

stated that persons who were sent to to cover these 
it was cancelled and this fact is also confirmed by the 

meetings used to take the purport of the speeches 
statements of respondent No. 1 and his witnesses . 

either in shorthand or from memory and reports about 
Chaman Lal ( P . W . 7 ) is posted at police station the speeches used to be submitted to the Deputy Supe 
Paharganj. He has also Aled a list ( Exhibit PW . 7 / 71 ) rintendent of Police , C . I. D . He was then asked to 
of meetings held within the area of this police station . produce his records of these meetings which were 
The details of these meetings according to the list covered by his staff and , in answer , he produced an 
( Exhibit PW . 7 / 1 ) are : 

affidavit of the Inspector General of Police , claiming 
1. On 19th February , 1971 at Tel Mandi. 

privilege . By my order dated January 12 , 1972 . the 

claim of privilege was upheld . Earlier I had made an 
2 . On 22nd February , 1971 at Chuna Mandi 

order on January 4 , 1972, directing this witness to 
3. On 24th February, 1971 at Chowk Chhe Tooti. give to the counsel for the petitioner a list of the 
4 . On 25th February , 1971 at Katra Karim 

persons who were deputed to attend the Congress meet 

ings in this constituency together with their official 
5 . On 1st March , 1971 at Chowk Chhe Tooti. 

addresses ; the dates of meetings attended the times of 
6 . On 2nd March , 1971 at Chowk Neemwala. 

the meetings and the list of the speakers at auch meet 


- - - - 


- - 


4494 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21. 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 

[ PART 11 – 
- -- -...-- -- - - - - -- - -- - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - 
ings. Such a statement was furnished by this witness Karim and Chowk Neemwala in Nabi Karim on 26th 
to the counsel for the petitiorier and through 1 . A . February 1971 and 2nd March 1971. respectively . The 
No. 645 of 1972 , a prayer was made on behalf of the meeting in Chowk Neemwala on 2nd March 1971 is 211 
petitioner to read this statement, filed with the applica adniitted meeting and is also mentioned in the list 
Lion , as evidence this case . By my order dated Exhibit PW . 7 / 1 , in view of the fuct that the meeting 
April , 20 , 1972 , this prayer was refused. However , the at Chowk Nabi Karim on 26th February 1971 is not 
petitioner produced some of these C . I. D . personnel to mentioned in any of the aforesaid four lists , it is diffi 
speak orally abou , the meetings covered by them . 

cult to rely upon the mere memory of this witness to 

hold that this meeting was held . 
The first witness is Umesh Chander ( PW . 39 ) who 
stated that he covered election meetings in this consti 

Nand Lal (RIW . 8 ) has spoken of a meeting on 1st 
tuency and attended meetings at Chhe Tooti in Pahar March 1971 in P Block Andha Mughal and Bhara Rani 
ganj; Ghantagbar in Sabzimandi ; Tel Mandı ; Amarpuri (RIW . 11 ) has spoken of a meeting at Lachhmanpuri 
Colony in Paharganj; Chowk Azad Market and near Chowk on 2nd March 1971 . These two meetings are 
Imperial Cinema. He did not state that all these were claimed to be meetings additional to the 23 admitted 
Congres, meetings of respondent No. 1. It was argued meetings. This claim is made on a rather involved re 
on behalf of the petitioner that the meetings at Chowk asoning. It is argued that according to the statement 
Azad Market and Amarpuri Colony posed to by this dated 29th March 1972 of Subhas Arya ( RIW . 35 ) , the 
witness were meetings of respondent No . 1 In addition 12 meetings which were furnished by Tandan Tent and 
to the admitted meetings . This claim is belied by the 

furniture House were big meetings and the remaining 
Ust Exhibit PW . 66 / 5 in which the meetings at these 11 meetings furnished by Agarwal Tent House were 
two places are stated to be meetings of political parties 

small meetings . It is then urged that Subhas Arya 
other than the Congress and the Jana Sangh . 

( RW1 35 ) has not stated that these two meet 
The next witness is Ranbir Singh ( PW . 49 ) who is a 

ings were big meetings and inasmuch as the 
Sub - Inspector in C . I, D . (Special Branch ) . He states 

furniture at these meetings corresponded to the 

furniture supplied by Agarwal Tent House , two 
that he covered three or four election meetings on 
respondent No . 1. He further states that he attended 

meetings must be small meetings . The argu 

ment the advanced is that this furniture could not 
moetings at Pahari Dhiraj and three other places , 
According to the petitioner , the meeting at Pahari 

have been supplied by Tandan Tent and Furniture 
Dhiraj is an additions meeting. The meeting at Pabari 

House because they supplied furniture only for the 12 
Dhiraj is shown in the list Exhibit PW . 6 / 5 as a meet 

big meeting and this furniture could not have been 
ing of political parties other than the Congress and the 

supplied by Agarwal Tent House because they did not 
Jana Sangh . Respondent No. 1 has also denied in his 

supply any furniture in March . 1971. The conclusion 
statement dated April 3, 1972 , about the holding of any 

which is sought to be arrived at from this process of 
meeting at Pahari Dhiraj on 27th February , 1971 or on 

reasoning is that these two meetings must be small 
any other date . This statement was made to contradict 

meetings which were not furnished by Agarwal Tent 
the statement of the petitioner made on January 25 , 

House and , therefore, must have been furnished by 
1972, that respondent No . 1 had organised a meeting 

some other person . There is no substance in his argu 
at Pahari Dhiraj on 27th February , 1971 which he 

ment . These two meetings are meetings which were 
attended and at which respondent No. 1 and respondent 

admitted by respondent No . 1 and which are mention 
No, 5 and spoken . In view of the documentary evidenca ed in the list Exhibit P . W . 8 / 3 as to the meeting at 
furbished by the list Exhibit PW . 6 / 5 that the meeting p Block Andha Mughal on 1st March 1971 and in the 
at Pahari Dhiraj on 27th February , 1971 was not of the list Exhibit PW 7 / 1 as to the meeting at Lachhman 
Congress or the Jana Sangh , I accept the statement of puri chowk on 2nd March 1971 and it is impossible to 
respondent No . 1 within regard to this meeting and conceive that two big meetings and / or two small meet 
reject the petitioner s contention that this meeting was ings were held at the game places at the same time. 
a meeting of respondent No. 1. 

The distinction drawn by Subhash Arya (RIW . 35 ) bet 

ween big meetings and small meetings appears to me 
The next witness is Daulat Ram (PW . 12 ) who is a 
Sub - Inspector in the C . I. D . ( Special Branch ) . He 

to be a distinction without a difference . 
has stated that he covered two election meetings of 
respondent No . 1 at Chowk Bara Tooti and at Hathi 

Another meeting which is alleged to be a meeting of 
Khana, Bahadurgarh Road. The contention of the 

the respondent is the meeting which was held on 28th 
petitioner is that the meeting at Bahadurgarh Road is 

February 1971 at Idgah . This meeting has been des 
an additional meeting. This witness has spoken from 

cribed by witnesses either as the Idgah meeting or the 
memory and his statement about this meeting cannot 

Prime Minister s meeting because the Prime Minister, 
be accepted in view of the fact that no meeting at 

Smt. Indira Gandhi, spoke at this meeting . Govind 
Bahadurgarh Road is mentioned in any of the tour 

Ram Verma (PW . 19 ) has admitted in his cross - exami 
lists Exhibits PW . 1 / 1 ; PW . / 5 ; PW . 7 / 1 and PW . 8 / 3 nation on December 23 . 1971. that Idgah itself is not 
as having been held by respondent No. 1. 

in the Delhi Sadar Parliamentary Constituency and 

the place where the Prime Minister g meeting was held 
The next witness is Sukhbir Singh (PW . 46 ) who is is in the Karol Bagh constituency . It is not disput 
2 Head Constable in C . 1. D . ( Special Branch ) . He ed hy the petitioner and there is evidence to that 
has stated that he covered one meeting of respondent effect on the rcord that T . Sohan Lal was the Congress 
No . 1 in this constituency on 26th February, 1971 at candidate from the Karol Bagh constituency . Reg 
Chhoti Masjid , Bara Hindu Rao . This meeting is pondent No . 1 denies in his statement on April 3 , 
mentioned in the 1st Exhibit PW . 6 / 6 as a meeting 1972 , having any hand or incurring any expense in 
organised by other political parties and not by the connection with the Idgah meeting. Subhagh Arva 
Congress . It is true that permission to hold a meeting TRIW . 35 ) who fa alleged by respondent No. 1 to be 
at this place had been granted by Exhibit PW . 6 / 1 but in charge of the Congress election once in tho Delhi 
according to the statement of Şubhash Arya ( RIW . 35 ) Sadar Parllamentary Constituency and who arranged 
dated 29th March , 1972 this meeting was not held . In for the meetings of respondent No . 1 has said in his 
view of the fact that a meeting at this place is not statement dated March 29 , 1972 that he did not have 
mentioned as a meeting of the Congress in the ligt Any hard in making any arrangement including the 05 
Exhibit PW . 8 / 5 and further in view of the statement taining of permission or gupply of furniture etc. for the 
of Subhash Arya ( RIW . 35 ) that this meeting was not Idgah meeting held on 28th February 1971 . Trilochan 
held , I hold that respondent No. 1 did not hold this Singh ( RIW . 5 ) states in his examination on February 
meeting . 

8 . 1972 that on 28th February 1972, five election meet 

ings were held in different parts of Delhi at which 
The next witness is Sher Singh ( PW . 46 ) of the Smt. Indira Gandhi gpoke and that he was present 
C . I . D . ( Special Branch ) who has spoke about covering At three of hege meetings including the one at Idgah . 
two meetings of respondent No . 1 in Chowk Nabi Ile states that when Smt. Indira Gandhi came up 


Stc (in ] 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 4495 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - : - - - - - - - -- - -- - - - - - - -- - 

. . . . .- - - - - - - - - - . 
the stage in this meeting, respondent No . 1 and T . of law and pleading and the other the burder of 
Sohan Lal, Congress candidate from the Karol Bagh e s ablishing a case the former is fixed as a question 
consiituency , algo came up on the Stage. He further Oj aw on the absis of the pleadings and is unchanged 
states that respondent No . 1 ; T . Sohan Lal and Radha during the entire trial, whereas the latter is not 
Ramanı, President of the Delhi Pradesh Congress Com constant but shifts as soon as a party adduces suffi 
mittee , spoke first and then Smt, Indira Gandhi spoke lient evidence to raise a presumption in his favour , 
at this meeting for 30 or 35 minutes. In cross - exma it is necessary for the application of this principle of 
mination he asserts that this meeting was arranged shifting burden of proof that the party on whom the 
by the Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee but it was burden of proof lies initially has adduced sufficient 
not particularly arranged for respondent No. 1 because evidence to raise a presumption in his favour. There 
in her speeches in election meetings, Smt. Indira is no evidence adduced by the petitioner , apart from 
Gandhi did not speak about any particular candidate oral statments of his own witnesses who were not 
but generally in favour of all Congress candidates . 

connected with the expenge for arranging the Idgah 

meeting, that it had been arranged by respondent 
The petitioner has relied upon various circumstances No. 1. The question of the burden shifting, therefore , 
to show that this Idgah meeting was arranged by , loi does not arise . It had also been observed in this case 
and at the expenge of respondent No . 1 . The first that if a plaintiff has in his possession relevant ac 
circuiristance is that respondent No . 1 has , with his count books to show that he was in possession of the 
return af expenses , Aled a voucher, of Rs. 35 dated foods sold and that the sale was effected for a parti 
28th February 1971 for the hire of scooter No . DHR cular consideration , he should produce such books and 
64 which states " publicity for Prime Minister 8 a . m . if such books are withheld , the Court can draw a 
to 7 p .m ." . This voucher is at page 19 of the file presumption against him under sectior. 114 of the Indian 
Exhibit PW . 5 / 1 . The argument is that if the Idgah Evidence Act. The books of the Delhi Pradesh Con 
meeting had not been arranged by , for or at the ex press Committee cannnot be said to be the books of 
pense of respondent No . 1 , he would not have fled respondent No. 1 apart from the fact that the burden 
this voucher in connection with this meeting as to of proving that the Idgah meeting was at big expense 
expenses incurred in his election In his cross - exa is not upon him , I fall to see the application of the 
niination on April 5 , 1972, respondent No, 1 has stated principles enunciated in this case to the facts of the 
that on 28th February 1971 he had sent his wife and present cage . Then , the petitioner has produced K . K . 
one Miss Abrol in a scooter to the Qasabpura area to Srivastav (PW . 47) , an attorny of the Delhi Electric 
ask the women of that locality to attend the ideah Supply undertaking who has produced an application 
meeting. He was not asked in cross - examination to for a temporary electric connection for the Idgah 
explain why he had shown this expense of Rs . 35 in nrcling which purports to have been made by one 
connection with the expenses incurred by hin in his Swami Atan Bodh . This Swami Atam Bodh has not 
electon but he has stated that the expense on the been produced by the petitioner . It is not possible 
Idgah meeting was incurred by the Delhi Pradesh for me to accept the argument that because Swami 
Congress Committee who must be having the neces Atam Bodh applied for the electric connection of 
sary records. In saying so he corroborates the testi Idgul meeting it could not have been a meeting at 
mony of Trilochan Singh ( RIW . 5 ) . It is not possible the expenge of the Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee 
to hold that the Idgah meeting was by , for or at the and, therefore, should be held to be a meeting held at 
expenge of respondent No. 1 mercly on the basis of th expense of respondent No. 1 . If the petitioner has 
the aforesaid voucher for Rs. 35 . The obvious ex faild to prove his case connecting the idgah meeting 
planation for including the aforesaid voucher in his with respondent No. 1 in relation to its expenses , I do 
own return of expenses is that it had been incurred not see why respondent No, 1 should have been ex 
upon a scooter in which his wife and Miss Abrol were pected to produce Radha Raman , President of the 
Rent in the Qasabpura area which a undoubtedly in Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee or even Swami 
the Delhi Sadar Parliamentary Constituency . The Atam Bodh . It is then contested that the petitioner 
next circumstance relied upon by the petitioner is had summoned records from the Delhi Pradesh Con 
that respondent No , I was not only present at the gress Committee and Chandu Lal Parwana ( PW 38 ), 
Idgah meeting but he also spoke there. No conclu it wermanent Secretary , was examined without oath , 
sion can be derived from this fact because the fact This witness admity that the Delhi Pradesh Congress 
that a person is a candidate from a particular cons Conimittee spent moncy on all the constituencies 
tituency does not preclude him from attending elec 

which were being contested by the congress but no 
tion meetings held in another constituency or election separate record of amounts spent in each constituency 
meetings which may be organised by the politcal party Has maintained by them . He also states that they 
to which he belongs and where the leader of that did not maintain any record of the meetings addressed 
political party is to speak . Then it is argued that by the Prime Minister . While the petitioner has re 
there is no evidence that T . Sohan Lal who was the lied upon the account books of the Delhi Pradesh 
Congress Candidate from the Karol Bagh constituency Congress Committee at item No. 12 of his list of re 
bore the expenses of the Idgah meeting which fell liance, the summons issued to the General Secretary 
in his constituency . This argument is futile because of the Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee containing 
it is no body s case that T . Sohan Lal bore the ex a list of records required to be produced merely men 
penses of the Idgah meeting . On the other hand , the tioned the records relating to public meetings " Includ 
case of respondent No. 1, in corroboration to the ing that of the mceting addressed by the Prime Minis 
statement of Trilochan Singh ( RIW . 5 ) , is that the ter." No specific record relating to the expense of the 
Idgah meeting was arranged by the Delhi Pradesh 

Idgah meeting was summoned from this witness . Taking 
Congress Committee . It is then argued that there the aforesaid circumstances into consideration indi 
was evidence which could be summoned by respondent vidually and collectively it cannot be said that the 
No . I to prove conclusively that the expenses of the petitioner hag discharged the burden of connecting 
Idgah meeting were borne by the Delhi Pradesh respondert No. 1 with the Idgah ineeting so as to enable 
Congreg Committee and this evidence would comprise me to hold that the Idgah meeting was by, for or at 
the records of the Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee 

the expense of respondent No. 1, 
which would have shown that the expense of the Idgah 
meeting was borne by them . It is further argued 

In the result , I hold that the petitioner hay failed 
that Radha Raman , President of the Delhi Pradesh to prove either that respor.dent No . 1 held any meet 
Congress Committee , has not been produced . Reliance ings additional to the 23 meetings admitted by him 
is , placed by the petitioner on the case reported in or the Idagh meeting . 
A . I. R . 1961 Supreme Court 1316 in re . Kundari Lal 
Rollaram v . Custodian , Evacuee Property , Bombay , 

Then I come to the question as to whether the ex 
where in dealing with a case of pregumption under penses at the ineetings of respondent No. 1 were as 
section 118 of the Negotiable Instruments act , it has stated by him , that is , Rs. 30 per meeting for the 12 
been observed that the phrase " burden of proof" has meetings for which arrangements were made through 
two meanings - one the burden of proof as a matter Tandan Tent and Furniture House and Saini Electric 


4496 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 

1PART 1! 
- = - = = - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - 
Works and Rs. 40 per meeting for the 11 meetings estimated on a conservative basis where it was possi 
furnished by Agarwal Tent House or whether the ble to arrive at such estimate . This decision was ap 
expenses were much more. It is argued that it is proved in Magraj Patodia s case reported in A . I. R . 
established on the record by the testimony of various 1971 Supreme Court 1295 . Therefore, in dealing with 
witnesses , Arstly , that the rates of hiring of furniture the question of expenses incurred or authorized by 
and electric equipment were much more than the respondent No . 1 or his election agent, it will have 
rates mentioned in the bills of Tandan Tent and to be established , first on the evidence on record that 
Furniture House ; Saini Electric Works and Agrwal additional items of expenses not shown by the return 
Tent House and secondly , that the furniture , other ed candidate in his return of expenses were actually 
furnishings and electrict arrangements at all thege incurred or authorised and it is only then that it will 
meetings were on a much larger and higher scale be necessary to estimate such expenses on a conser - 
than the furniture and electric equipment described in vative basis on the evidence on the record. It is in the 
the bills of the aforesaid three firms which have been light of this principle that it will have to be found 
detailed earlier in this judgment. It is , therefore , whether respondent No . 1 incurred or authorised ex 
contended that I should rely upon the testimony of penditure on the 23 meetings in excegs of the expen 
these witnesses and hold that the furnishings at these diture admitted by him , 
meetings were on a much larger and higher scale and 
that I should estimate the expenses according to the 

Madan Lal Khurana ( PW . 10 ) belongs to the Jana 
estimates given by the witnesses as to the scale of 
furnishings. 

Sangh Party and was the Chief Whip in the Metro 
politan Council Delhi. He ig also the Joint Secretary 

of the Delhi Pradesh Jana Sangh party . He has 
Section 77 of the Act requires a candidate to kecp stated in his examination in - Chief on December, 21 , 
separate and correct account of all expenditure in 1971 that he saw several meetings on behalf of res 
connection with the election incurred or authorized pondent No. 1 in several areas in the constituency but 
by him or by his election agent between the dates he heard what was being said only in one of the 
specified in the section . The liability imposed by meeting which was held on March 1 ,1971, in 
this section is in respect of expenditure incurred or Chowk Chhe Tooti sitting in his office. According to 
authorized by him or by his election agent. There him there were durries , dais, chairs , arrangement for 
forę, a petitioner has to prove the incurring or autho light and loudspeakers in the meetings of respondent 
rizing of that expenditure. It is contended that even No . 1 which he saw . His estimate of expenses per 
of the actual amount incurred or authorized by the meeting is about Rs. 500 to Rs. 700 . He has not given 
returned candidate is not proved , it is for this court the number of durries, the number of Takhats of 
to make an estimate of the expenditure that must which the dais was made, the number of lightg or the 
have been incurred or authorized by the returned number of loudspeakers so as to show that they were 
candidate upon the evidence in the case . Reliance for more than are to be found in the bills of Tandan Tent 
this proposition ig placed on a Division Bench Judg and Furniture House ; Saini Electric Works or Agrawal 
ment of the Bombay High Court reported in ( 1958 ) Tent House . He hag also admitted in his cross - examina 
17 Election Law reports 37 in Re : Shivram Sawant tion on the aforesaid date that he did not attend any of 
Bhonsale v . Pratap Rao Deorao Bhonsale . The Divi 

the meetings referred to by him but only saw them 
sion Bench were hearing an appeal against the deci and heard the meeting at Chowk Chhe Tooti from his 
sion of an Election Tribunal, The Election Tribunal office which was about 150 or 200 yards from the place 
had found that certain items of expenditure had been of the meeting. From the statement of this witness 
suppressed and had not been shown in the return of it is not possible to come to a conclusion that in res 
expenses Aled on behalf of the returned candidate pect of the meeting at Chowk Chhe Tooti or the other 
but it did not take them into consideration in arriv meetings of respondent No. 1 at Chuna Mandi. Tel 
ing at the total figure of expenditure incurred hy the Mandi, Dal Mandi and Multani Dhanda which this 
returned candidate on the ground that the exact witness alleges to have seen , the aforesaid items of 
amount that must have been spent had not been prov furnishings were more in number than have been 
ed by the petitioner, The Division Bench then went mentioned in the bills of the aforesaid three firms 
into the various itemg which were alleged to have been and it is not possible for this Court to estimate the 
suppressed and with respect to certain items found expenses on this evidence . I may only add that the 
that they had been suppressed . There was therefore, only additional item of furniture deposed to by this 
a finding that the returned candidate had incurred or witness is " chairs " . He has not been corroborated as 
authorised the expenses on certain items which had to this item by any evidence worth the name. 
not been ghown in the return of election expenses. 01 
this finding the Divigion Bench observed , - 

The next witness is Joginder Nath Karur ( PW . 14 ) 
“ If the Tribunal comes to a conclusion that an 

He is a Secretary of the Nabi Karim Mandal of the 

Jana Sangh . In his examination - in - chief on Decem 
item of expenditure has been suppressed in 

ber 22 , 1971. he has stated that he saw a meeting on 
the return of election expenses , the mere fact 

respondent No. 1 in Neemwala Chowk , Nabi Karim 
that there is no sufficient evidence about the 

on March 2 , 1971 where he saw a decorated gtage : 
amount that must have been spent is no 

loudspeakers, lights and durries . When his examina 
ground for saying that the matter is to be 

tion - in - chief was continued on December 23, 1971, he 
ignored . As far ag possible it would be the 

amplified his statement with respect to the lights by 
duty of the Tribunal to assess the amount of 

stating that there were mercury bulbs and that there 
expenses as best it can . We do not suggest 

must have been 100 to 200 durries . In so far as the 
that the Tribunal should enter into any region 
of speculation or merely try to guess the 

various items of furnishings are concerned . there is 
amount that must have been spent. But It 

no inconsistency between the statement of this witness 

and the furnishings supplied by the aforesaid three 
would generally be poggible to arrive at an 
Amount of expenditure on a conservative 

firms except in respect of durries . The estimate of 
basis and where it is possible arriva at any 

this witness is really no estimate because of the big 

gar between 100 and 200 . The evidence of this wit 
such estimate , such estimated amount should 
be held as not hown by the candidate in his 

negg is insufficient to come to a definite finding ag to 

the number of durries at the meeting held at Neem 
election accounta ." 

wala Chowk and in view of the fact that he belongs 

to the political party of the petitioner , it is not diffi 
Speculation or guess has , therefore, been ruled out cult to assume that in the matter of his egtimate of 
even in cases where expense on a particular item is the number of durries , there is exaggeration apart 
proved to have been incurred or authorized but the from the fact that the statement is not definite . It 
actual amount incurred or authorized ha , not been Is not . therefore, possible to make an estimate on the 
proved . What has been held to be necessary to he testimony of this witness with reference to the ex 
done is that the amount of expenditure should be penses of the meeting at Chowk Neemwala , 


- - 


- 


SEC . 3 (ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972/ ASVINA 29 , 1894 

4497 
- - - - - . - - - - - - - - - - - - - . - - — - = - = 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
The next witness is Parmodh Kumar ( PW , 15 ) It is , therefore , highly improbable that for these two 
who is a supplier of tents, shamlanas and crockery meetings respondent No . 1 would have hired any fur 
on hire . He states that he knows respondent No. 1 niture from a different source in addition . 
and that he hired out durries , stage, loudspeakers 

I have, 

therefore, no hesitation in rejecting the testimony of 
etc . to him during the election period . He has pro PW . 15 and the argument that the respondent had 
duced the following three bills or such supplies : incurred an expense of Rs. 1142. 50 for hire of furni 
plieg : 

ture through this witness , 
1 . Bill No . 263 dated 20 - 2 - 1971 for Rs. 368 . 
( Exhibit PW . 15 / 1 - A .) 

The next witness is Om Parkash Sachdeva (PW . 

21 ) . In his examination - in - chief he did not discloge 
2 . 3111 No. 270 dated 24 - 2 - 1971 for Rs. 414 .50 , his political affiliation but in his cross - examination 
(Exhibit PW . 15 / 1 - B .) 

hę admitted that for the 1st three years he had been 
3. Bill No. 271 dated 24 -2 - 1971 for Rs . 360. 

President of the Jana Sangh Mandal, Rahatganj. 
(Exhibit PW . 15 / 1 - C .) 

This witness alleges that he supplied 25 reams of 

paper worth Rs. 920 ,40 to respondent No. 1 which 
All these bills are made out in the name of Respon 

amount is also alleged to have been incurred by res 
dent No . 1. The first two billg are for meetings at 

pondent No . 1 in addition to the admitted amounts . 
Tal Mandi and Chuna Mandi on 19 - 2 - 1971 and 22 

This question I will deal with later . At the moment 
2 - 1971, respectively . The third bill is for supply of 

I am concerned with the statement of this witness as 
loudspeakers. He admits that he keeps accounts 

to the election meetings of respondent No. 1 which 
oľ his business and he maintained account of the 

he is alleged to have seen . He states that he saw 
shamianas and durries which were hired out by him 

four or five meetings of respondent No. 1 and in 
during the election . However , he did not produce 

every such meeting there used to be about 250 dur 
any account other than the bill book containing the 

ries and a big stage for seating about 40 to 50 people , 
aforesaid bills. In cross -examination he stated that 

In cross - examination he belittles the extent of expen 
he did not maintain any receipt books and the pay 

ture on Jana Sangh meetings and then he amplifles 
ments received are entered on the bills itsell . He 

his statement in examination -in - chief by stating that 
went further and stated that he does not maintain 

at Congregg meeting there were 10 or 12 loud 
any cash book or ledger or any other account Book . 

speakery and about 200 fluorescent tubes . He states 
It was also elicited in cross -examination that the 

that the meetings of respondent No. 1 that he saw 
bills in the bill book contain serial numbers and bili 

were at Bara Tootl Chowk ; Azad Market and Ghanta 

ghar Sabzimandi. I have already held that there was 
while the earlier bill No. 285 bears a later ( dated 15th no meeting of respondent No , I at Azad Market and 
February, 1971) was made earlier than the bill No. I state it only for the purpose of showing that mem 
February , 1971 was made earlier than the bull No. bers belonging to a political party can exaggerate to 
256 dated 14th February, 1971 . He further states any extent. This witness has also exaggerated when 
that respondent No . 1 , accompanied by Satya Parkash he speaks of 10 or 12 loudspeakers and 200 fluores 
Maken ( RIW . 33 ) . had come to place the order which cent tubes at the Congress meetings. He has depos 
was dictated to him but he has not produced the ed to these meetings even though he has admitted in 
memorandum which he made at that time. He fur cross - examination that he had not mentioned about 
ther admits that he was a partner of Padam Chand the speeches at these meetings to the petitioner . This 
Goel who was a Member of the Delhi Municipal Cor sort of vague oral statement about the furnishings at 
poration on the Jana Sangh ticket. Respondent No . a meeting unsupported by unimpeachable documentary 
i has denied placing any order with this witnęgs . evidence cannot be accepted so as to enable me to 
No signatures of respondent No. 1 either upon the hold that the furnishings at the meetings of respon 
order placed by him or upon the bill when making 

dent No . 1 were much more than admitted hy him . 
the payment have been shown. There is absence of 
a receipt book . The accounts relating to the furni 

The next witness is Gopal Krishan Arora (PW . 23 ) , 
ture hired which is alleged by this witness in his 

He also has political affinity with the petitioner as he 
examination - in - chief to have been kept by him have 

is a member of the working Committee of the Sadar 
not been produced . In the face of the denial of res 

District Jana Sangh and in March , 1971, he was the 
pondent No. 1, it is not possible to hold conclusively 

Joint Secretary of the Sadar District Jana Sangh . He 
on the basis of the copies of the aforesaid three bills 

admits that he was in charge of the publicity on be 
and in the other circumstances adverted to earlier 

half of the Jana Sangh including issuing of posters , 
that this witness had supplied any furniture to res 

handbills etc . In his examination - in - chief, he states 
ponden ! No, l ag alleged by him . 

that respondent No. 1 must have organised 35 to 40 

meetings during the election period . He exaggerates 
A mere bill book is not, in the strict sense , a book 

here because , according to my finding, respondent No . 
of account. In the face of denial by the person 

1 held only 23 meetings. The witness goes on to say 
sought to be charged as having incurred an expenge , 

that in each meeting there used to be a state to ac 
a bill book cannot be said to be such unimpeachable 

commodate 30 to 35 people; shamianas, chairs , durries , 
documentary evidence which even though supported 

carpets on the dais , loudspeakers, flood lights and de 
by An oral statement can be held to be suficient to 

( oration lights . According to him , the stage was made 
charge a person with liability . The Supreme Court 

of Takhats and tables and in ordinary meetings there 
has said in Pursushothama Reddlar s case reported 

would be 70 to 80 durries while in big meelings there 
in A . I. R . 1972 Supreme Court 608 that in election 

were 300 or 400 durries . Exaggeration is writ large 
cases , though oral evidence has to be appreciated 

on the testimony of this witness because he , talks of 
with great deal of care, the Courts should not reject 

shamianas , chairs , charpets and decoration lights ir 
the oral evidence which is highly probable and is 

each meeting in which statement he is not supported 
corroborated by unimpeachable documentary evid 
ence. The oral evidence of this witness is not even 

by any other witness produced by the petitioner . Ac 
highly probable . Bill No. 263 ( Exhibit PW . 16 / 1 - A ) 

each meeting of respondent No. 1 would be Rs. 500 to 
dated 20th February , 1971 is alleged to be for sup 

Rs. 800 . It is really not necessary to deal in great 
ply of furniture for the meeting of respondent No. 1 

detail with the statement of this witness because here 
at Tel Mandi on 19th February , 1971. Bill No . 270 

again there is exaggeration ; vague statement and no 
( Exhibit PW . 15 / 1 - B ) dated the 24th February , 1971 is 

support from any unimpeachable documentary evid 
for supply of furniture for a meeting of respondent 

ence . In cross -examination he admits that he did not 
No. 1 at Chuna Mandi on 22nd February , 1971. The 

attend any of the meetinga held by respondent No. 1 
meetings at both these places are admitted meetings 
of respondent No . 1 which , prior to 20th February , except for staying there for a minute or 80 while on 

his way from place to place and these meetings were 
1971 were furnished by Agarwal Tent House and 

attended by 2 , 000 or 3 , 000 to 20 ,000 or 25 , 000 pergong. 
subsequent to 20th February , 1971 either by Agarwal 

The improbability of his statement is apparent from 
Tent House or Tandan Tent and Furniture House , 


4498 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 

[ Parr II - 
- - - . . .-- - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - -- - -- 
the fact that he has deposed about the furnishings oi meetings of respondent No . 1 when passing by the 
cach of the meetings of respondent No . 1 even though p . aces where these meetings were being held . Hle 
he stayed in the meetings for a minute or so while lurther states that in these meetings he used to see 
on his way from place to place . No reliance can be stages covered by durries and Chandnis : loudspeakers ; 
placed on his testimony to support the case of the carpets ; lights and that the meetings used to be " Shan 
petitioner that the meetings of respondent No. 1 had dar " . Agairi with regard to the furnishings at these 
any furniture of furnishings in excess of the aclmit meetings, the statement is of the vagues type and it 
ted furniture or furnishings . I may only add with re is not useful at all for the purpose of arriving at a 
bard to this witness that he is one oỉ the omnibus conclusion as to whether the furnishings were more 
witnesses produced by the petitioner who has depos than as admitted by respondent No . 1 or as to their 
ed about practically every aspect of the matter which extent. 
falls for consideration in this case . I have no hesita 
tion in rejecting his testiinony as vague ; highly in 

The next witness is Saly , Pal Chugh (PW . 34 ) who 
probable and exaggerated . 

is another omnibus witness and has political affinity 

with the petitioner as he is a member of the Metropo 
The next witness is Inder Mohan Bhardwaj (PW . 30 ) litan Council from Shakti Nagar- Rahatganj on the 
who is another omnibus witness and admittedly has 

Jana Sangh ticket. Ile states that he saw one meeting 
political affinity with the petitioner because he is a of respondent No . 1 in Nangiu Park , Shakti Nagar 
Councillor of the Municipal Corporation of Delhi from on 23rd , 24th or 25th February , 1071 and two other 
the Pul Bangash constituency on the Jana Sangh ticket meeting - one at Roshnaara Road and the other in 
and his father was a member of the Metropolitan Shakti Nagar near Birla Mills . He states that the 
Council from the Pul Bangash Partapnagar constitu meeting places in all these meetings were very nicely 
ency on the Jana Sangh ticket since 1967. He speaks decorated ; there were flood lights ; durrleş ; double mi 
of three meetings of respondent No . 1 which he attend crophones and his estimate of the number of durrles 
ed . One ineeting was at Chowk Bara Tooti on 22nd for cach meeting is 150 or 200 . This witness is so 
February, 1971 where he saw a big stage made out of vague about the furnishings that he does not talk 
60 or 70 Takhats ; about 200 durries ; 20 or 25 flood even about a stage. Apart from giving the approxi 
ights on the stage and other places ; carpets on the mate number of durries, his statement cannot be 
stage , three microphones on the stage and about 10 helpful in ascertaining the number of lights or any 
loudspeakers in the area of the meeting . According other thing that he might have seen in these meet 
to my findings, there was no meeting of respondent ings. That even the estimate of this witness is exag 
No. 1 at Chowk Bara Tooti on 22nd February , 1971, gerated and vague is amply established by the ques 
Meeting at this place was on 20th February , 1971. tion in croys examination asking him about the dimen 
With regard to the furnishings, particularly the num 

sion of Nangia Park in Shakti Nagar. The witness 
ber of Takhats ; number of flood lights on the stage 

stated that Nangla Park will be about four times the 
and at other places ; carpets on the stage and num length of the Court room and two or three times its 
ber of loudspeakers , this witness has exaggerated and width . He again said that the width will be three 
his statement does not And corroboration from any or four times the width of the Court room . When 
other witness produced by the petitioner . The places 

asked about the dimensions of the court room , he 
from where these furnishings and furniture were ob 

stated that it will be 15 meters in width and 30 meters 
tained are not stated nor has any witness been pro in length whereas in fact, it is about 7 meters in width 
duced by the petitioner who might have furnished and about 15 meters in length . The testimony of this 
this meeting for respondent No. 1. The staternent, witness is completely uselegg for the purpose of deter 
therefore , appears to me to be highly improbable apart mining the question about the extent of the furnishings 
from being unsupported by any unimpeachable docu in the meetings of respondent No . 1 and as to whether 
mentary evidence . The second meeting that he alle these furnishing were more than the admitted fur 
yes to have seen was at Pul Bangash on 26th Febru nishings , 
ary , 1971 and the third meeting at Library Road on 
1st March , 1971 . According to my finding given ear 

The next witness in G , L . Rawal (PW 35 ) , who is 
lier , there were no meetings of respondent No . 1 at 

an Advocate of this Court . He states that he at 
any of these places and , therefore, the extent of fur 

tended two meetings , of respondent No , 1 - -one in 
nishings in these two meetings deposed to by this 

Ahata Kidara Chowk probably on February 23 , 1971 
witness must be based upon imagination rather than 

and the other at Idgah on February 28 , 1971. As I 
upon facts . He states that at the Pul Bangash meet 

have already held that the Idgah meeting was not a 
ing there was a big stage, the size of which he does 

meeting of respondent No . 1 , it is not necessary to 
not give; about 125 durries ; about 15 flood lights ; about 

take into account the furnishings at this meeting . As 
10 loudspeakers and 2 microphones on the stage. For 

to the meeting at Ahata Kidara Chowk, the witness 
the meeting at Library Road , there were about 8 or 

states that there was a very big dais made by raising 
10 Takhats ; about 50 durries , one microphone; 2 loud 

15 or 20 Takhats covered by 20 or 25 durries ; 100 other 
speakers and 5 or 6 flood lights. Subject to what I 

curries ; about 3 or 4 loudspeakers , 2 or 3 microphones 
have said , the extent of furnishings is , at best , a guess 

and 15 or 20 one thousand watts bulbs. According to 
on the part of this witness of which there is no cor 

my Anding , respondent No. 1 did not hold any meet 
roboration from any other witness of the petitioner . 

ing at Ahata Kldara Showk on February 23, 1971 or 
Another aspect which may be taken into considera 

any other date . The details of the furnishings , apart 
tion is that according to this witness the furnishings 

from being vague, given by this witness , therefore , 
at the three meetings which he has alleged to have 

lose all significance and one can only say that the wit 
geen were not identical and differed considerably from 

ness imagined this meeting and the furnishings there 
meeting to meeting. This is true also of the other 

in . His statement does not amount to anything on he 
witnesses of the petitioner who are alleged to have 

question that I am examining at present Apart from 
seen more than one meeting. In this situation , it is im 

the fact that the admitted in cross -examination that 
possłble for this Court to make even an estimate of the 

he did not count the Takhats and the durries etc . 
expenses incurred or authorized by respondent No. 1 

whose number he has given in his examination - in -chief 
at each meeting even if it be assumed that expenses 

which was based upon as estimate , I may only add 
of these furnishings were incurred by him . For all 

that this witness is also one of the omnibus witnesses 
these reasons I cannot rely upon the statement of this 

because he has deposed about other matters which I 
witness with regard to the extent of furnishings and 

will deal with when I discuss the relevant issues , 
his testimony in this behalt is completely worthless . 

The next witness is Som Dev Arya (PW ! 32 ) . He 
The next witness is Chuni Lal (PW . 32 ) . He is 

also has political amnity with the petitioner as he 
respondent No. 3 to the petition and was a candidate 

was elected to the Metropolitan Council in the 1967 
for the Congress ( O ) . He states that only one meet 

elections on the Jana Sangh ticket . He states that 
ing was held in his area of Nabi Karim but he saw 

he saw one meeting of the congress on 1st March , 


No. 1. 


30 . 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1874 

4499 
- 

- - - - - - - - - - 
- - - - - - -- -- - 

- - - 

- - - 
- - - -- . .. - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- -- - - . - - - - - - - -- - - - - 
1971 at Ghantaghar, Sabzimandi in which there was particularly when the petitioner saw these meetings 
a stage to accommodate more than 30 people made only on his way and admitted in his cross -examination 
out of Takhuts ; carpets and sheets on the Takhats ; 10 on 2nd February , 1972 that what he had stated about 
ur 12 loudspeakery ; lights; 2 microphones and about the furnishings is only his own estimate which in other 
200 or 250 Curries . He does not give the details of words means speculation , 
all the furnishings and in his cross - examination he 

In this connection it has been argued by the petitioner 
admits that the number of durries mentioned by him 

that the proprietor of Agarwal Tent House of Saini 
in this meeting is based on estimate . He further 

Electric Works has not been produced by respondent 
states that carpets were spread on the stage and 

No. 1 and their evidence has not been made available 
chandnis were over the carpets . According to my find 

to the Court and from this omission a presumption is 
ings, the two meetings of respondent No. 1 at Ghanta 

sought to be raised that their bills which have been 
ghar Subzímandi were on 16th February , 1971 and 

Aled by respondent No. 1 with his return of election 
2nd March , 1971. The entire statement of this witness 

expenses must be false . The argument has only to be 
in connection with an alleged meeting of respondent 

stated to be rejected . It is not for respondent No. I to 
No. 1 on 1st March , 1971 at Ghantaghar , Sabzimandi 

piove the case of the petitioner in an election petition . 
would , therefore, bę from his imagination and not 

The burden lies upon the petitioner to prove that there 
based on iacts . That makes the statement highly im 

has been an excess of expenditure over the prescribed 
probable apart from being vague. 

limit. No inference can , therefore , be drawn against 
The next witness Is Dharam Vir (PW , 56 ) . He hires respondent No . 1 for not producing these two persong. 

But even assuming that an inference is to be drawn 
out shamianas ; furniture and marriage accessories. 

against respondent No . 1 it would lead to nothing be 
He is alleged to have seen a meeting of respondent 

cause the inference cannot go to the extent of proving 
No. 1 on 22nd January, 1971 at Chowk Bara Tooti. 

that the extent of furnishings was such and such and 
The question of any meeting in January, 1971 does 

that the expenses thereof were incurred by respondent 
not arise and the statement of this witness can only 
le described as imaginary. According to him there 
was a stage at this meeting which was big enough to 

Another criticism of the voucher of Saini Electric 
accommodate 25 or 30 persons; about 250 durries; 

Works is that a microphone is not mentioned and the 
c .landnis ; 2 or 3 carpets ; 2 or 3 microphones ; 7 or 8 

dates and places of meetings or their number are not 
loudspeakers and 30 or 35 big flood lights , According 

stated in this voucher (Exhibit R . 27 ) . This voucher , 
to his estimate the stage was made out of 24 or 30 

as already stated , is a voucher - cum -recipect and it states 
Takhats . He then gives the rates on which furniture 

that a sum of Rs, 180 / - hag been charged from respon 

dent No . 1 for loudspeaker and light arrangements. I 
tion that he did not hire out any shamianas, furniture 

do not think any inference can be drawn against res 
etc , to any candidate during these elections. He l ur 

pondent No . 1 either from the lack of details as to the 
ther admits that the rates given by him are of medium 

arrangements or as to the places or dates of meetings. 
class of goods. He then states that the rate given by 

The same remarks would apply to the criticism against 
Tandan Tent and Furniture House are low but one 

the voucher of Tandan Tent and Furniture House ( Ex 
can charge low rates. Nor can he say whether the 

hibit R . 25 ) when it is urged that the place and the 
rates charged are for third class gocals which will be 

date of meetings have not been mentioned . Then it 
lower than the rates quoted by him . Hlis testimony 

is sald that the voucher of Agarwal Tent House is , 
is useless for the purpose of assessing whether the 

according to Subhash Arya ( RIW . 35 ) , for small meet 
furnishings at the meetings held by respondent No. 1 

ings at the rate of Rs. 40 / - per meeting while the com 
were inore than as admitted by hini. 

bined youchers of Tandan Tent and Furniture House 

and Saini Electric Works work out to Rs. 30 / - per 
Then we have the statements of Police and C .I. D . 

meeting for big meeting . As I have already stated , 
Oncers who covered various meetings of respondent 

the distinction between big and small meetings drawn 
No. 1 . They are Khem Raj Kutt ( PW . 1 ) ; Umesh 

by Subhash Arya ( RIW . 35 ) is a distinction without 
Chand (PW , 39 ) ; Daulat Ram ( PW . 42 ) ; Jhangi Ram 

a difference . In view of the statement of Dharam Vir 
( PW . 43 ) ; Ram Chander ( PW . 44 ) ; Sher Singh 

( PW . 56 ) that the rates would vary in accordance with 
(PW . 45 ) ; and Sukhbir Singh ( P . W . 46 ) . These wit 

the quality of the goods, no significance can be attached 
nesses have not given the extent of the furnishings but 

to the aforesaid difference in rates . 
generally speaking , they have stated that in the mect 
ings attended by them , there used to be a dals : micro 

I, therefore , conclude that the petitioner has falled 
phonę; durries ; lighting arrangement and loudspeagers to prove that the furnishings at the meetings of respon 
Some of them have frankly admitted that they do not 
take any particular note of the extent of furnishings the admitted vouchers of the suppliers or that re : pon 
at such meetings . Their statements go to support the dent No . 1 incurred more expenses in furnishings the 
case of respondent No . 1 rather than of the petitioner . meetings than admitted by him . 
None of these witnesses talks of any shamianas; chairs ; 
carpets: fluorescent tubes or the furnishings other than 

Before , I deal with the other specific items of ex 
the admitted furnishings spoken of by other witnesses 

nense claimed by the petitioner to have been incurred 
of the petitioner . 

or authorised by respondent No. 1 over and above the 

admitted items, it is necessary to state first the plead 
Lastly , there is the statement of the petitioner him 

ings of the parties and certain other matters on the 
sell. In his statement dated january 25 , 1972 , he has record . The date of poll was 5th March , 1971 and after 
Arst spoken about the meeting at Pahari Dhiraj on 27th counting of votes on 10th March , 1,971, result was 
February , 1971 and the alleged furnishings therein . declared late in the night of this date . This petition 
Inasmurh as I have held that there was no meeting of was Aled on 24th April , 1971 , that is on the 45th day 

iifter the declaration of the result which was the last 
1971, no note cari be taken of the alleged furnisnings 

day oť limitation according to section 81 of the Act . 
at this meeting for the purpose of determining the The petitioner, therefore , had the maximum tine 
question I am dealing with at present. Then he states allowed by law for making out a case for filing this 
that on his way he must have seen 15 or 20 other petition . 
nectings of respondent No. 1 while talking of the 
various places , he has stated that at some places the 

In paragraph 20 of the petition , allegation is made 
arrangements were more elaborate than at others . Al 

ahout the commission of corrupt practices by respon 
though he has attempted to give the size of the stage 

dent No. 1 or his election agent and details of some of 
and the number of durrſesi flood lights, loudspeakers 

the corrupt practices are then set out. In clause ( a ) 
and microphones , it is not possible to take this cvidence 

of this paragraph , it is alleged that respondent No . 1 . 
into consideration to come to a Anding that the fur 

his election agent (Dr. Roshan Lal RIW . 34 ) and other 
nishings were more than the admitted 

Drrsons with their consent published tatements of fact 
furnishings 


4500 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ Part 11 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- -- 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


enclosed and to a copy of this notice was sent to the 
Chief Election Commissioner . 

Paragraph 23 states that neither respondent No . 1 nor 
any of the aforesaid persons made any demur to the 
notice . This averment is obviously incorrect because , 
admittedly , replies to this notice were sent both by 
respondent No . 1 and respondent No . 5 . 

Paragraph 24 alleges that respondent No . 5 was the 
active worker and agent of respondent No. 1 and also 
asted as his counting agent. Meetings which had been 
held to support the candidature of respondent No . 1 
were addressed by both of them during the election 
days and the impugned statements were repeated with 
embellishment in public meetings and also orally dur 
ing the course of canvassing during the election day 
It is a verred that the petitioner will produce at the 
hearing a tape record of some of the speeches but it 
may be stated that no such tape record was attempted 
to be produced at the hearin !! 


The corrupt practice relating to the excess of expen 
diture over the prescribed limit in this paragraph 
which contains bare averment to that effect. 


which were false and which these persons believed to 
be false Or did not ebilieve to the true in relation to 
the personal character or conduct of the petitioner 
which statements were reasonably calculated to preja 
dice the prospects of the petitioners ele tion . It is 
then stated that respondent No. 1 ; Dr . Roshan Lal 
( RIW . 34 ) and Jai Parkash Goel ( respondent No. 5 ) 
and other persons acting with their consent printed 
and published a handbill during the election period 
with the caption " Dal Ka Theka Khud ko or vole 
Mange Janta Se” . Then the details of this Handbill 
are given in sub -para ( 1 ) " that the petitioner procured 
contract for the supply of pulses to the Army ior his 
brothers and he supplied rotten pulses to the Army 
personally and thereby wanted to feed the Army wiih 
rotten pulse and the fact was exposed in the Parlia 
ment in 1970 ; that the allegation carried the innuendo 
that the petitioner was a cheat and a callous person 
who could stoop so low as to supply rotien stuff to the 
soldiers of the country .” 

Sub - para ( 2 ) then states that this handbill was wide 
ly circulated and distributed throughout the constitu 
ency over the alleged signatures of " Pupils Council" uf 
Sadar Bazar Delhi and the said handbill had been 
printed by Saod Litho Press , Delhi. It is averred that 
the “ Pupils Council" was nothing but a name which 
was invented and adopted by respondent No. 1 ; his 
election agent and his other agents and workers who 
acted with the consent of respondent No. 1 in relation 
to this corrupt practice and other corrupt practices 
during the election period . Sood Litho Press ; Sham , 
Lal who purported to be the Secretary of the socalled 
" Pupils Council" and respondent No . 5 were alleged to 
be the agents of respondent No. 1 and having acted 
with his consent in relation this corrupt practice. It 
was further averred that apart from getting this hand.. 
bill printed and published , respondent No. 1 distributed 
it on a large scale in the constituency during the elec 
tion days through his workers paid or unpaid and the 
facts stated in this handbilį (described as the impugned 
poster ) were orally repeated and were also given quite 
wide publicity in public meetings held in the constitu 
ency during the election period . It is , therefore clear 
that there was a definite averment that the aforesaid 
handbill had been printed at Sood Litho Press and that 
Sood Litho Press ; aforesaid Sham Lal and respondent 
No. 5 were agents of respondent No. 1 acting with his 
consent 

Then sub - para ( 3 ) states that respondent No . 1 by 
himself and by his agent called the petitioner by ridi 
culous name “ Kanwar Dal Gupta and gave an appellia 
tion of calling him " Hero of Pulse Scandal" and these 
statements were published in a poster of the size of 
2 x3 in Devnagari and Persian scripts and this poster 
was also published under the signature of Sham Lal , 
Secretary of " Pupils Council” whose phone number 
was given as 226492 . Here again , the definite case of 
the petitioner is that this poster was published by 
respondent No . 1 and or by his agent who , in the con . 
text of the pleas , must mean the aforesaid Sham Lal. 

Paragraph 21 of the petition contains the allegation 
that the aforesaid handbill and the poster which had 
been printed at the aforesaid Sood Litho Press Darya 
ganj, Delhi, were pasted at various places in the entire 
constituency and conspicuously displayed with a view 
to lower the petitioner in the eyes and estimation of 
the voters and to cause prejudice to the prospects of 
his election . It is averred that the allegations contain : 
ed in both these documents , namely , the handbill 
(annexure A to the petition ) and the poster (annexure 
B to the petition ) were false and baseless and con 
tained matter which was not true, could not be true 
and was false to the knowldge of respondent No. 1 and 
his election agent and other persons who acted with 
his consent in the election , 


Respondent No. 1 filed his written statement on ith 
July , 1971 . With reference to paragraph 20 of ine 
petition , respondent No 1 denied the alleged statements 
relating to the personal character or conduct of the 
petitioner and pleaded that the other question oi the 
said statements being false and believed to be false . 
or not believed to be true or being statements reason 
ably calculated to prejudice the petitioner s election 
did not arise. The alleged circulation and distribution 
of the said handbill was denied and the alleged inven 
tion and adoption by respondent No. 1, his election 
agent, his other agents or workers who acted with his 
consent of the name “ People s Council” was denied . 
Respondent No . 1 further denied that the Sood Litno 
Press or any Sham Lal or Jai Parkash Goel ( respon 
dent No . 5 ) were his agents or acted with his consent. 
Respondent No . 1 denied knowing any such Sham Lal 
It was reasserted that respondent No. 1 did not get the 
said handbill printed or published or distributed or 
having repeated the statement therein orally . Respon 
dent No . 1 further denied having seen the said hand 
bill and asserted that a reply to the notice had been 
given . It was pleaded that the statement in the said 
handbill did not fall within the mischief of section 
123 ( 4 ) of the Act as it showed that the petitioner , in 
his capacity as a Member of Parliament, got contracts 
to his brothers for supply of pulses to the Defence 
Forces and tried to supply rotten pulses for consump 
tion by soldiers : that the matter was exposed in 
Parliament in 1970 and an appeal was made to the 
voters not to re- elect such a person and therefore , 
the said handbill cannot be said to contain statements 
of fact which are false and which the maker either 
believed to be false or did not believe to be true. These 
statements were not, under any circumstances , in 
relation to the personal character or conduct of the 
petitioner but dealt with his conduct as a member of 
Parliament which position he allegedly misused . Res 
pondent No. 1 further denied that he or his agents had 
called the petitioner by the ridiculous name of " Kanwar 
Dal Gupta " or gave him an appellation of " Hero Pulse 
Scandal" or published a poster 2 x3 in Devanagari 
script or persian script. Respondent No . 1 denied the 
publication of such a poster during the election days 
and averred that the poster (annexure B to the peti 
tion ) had been brought into existence by the petioner 
after the election for the purpose of this petition . 


With regard to the allegations in paragraph 21 of the 
petition , respondent No. 1 pleaded that no particulars 
of the pasting or diplay of the alleged posters had 
hopen given . However , the pasting or display of the 
alleged poster by respondent No . 1 . his election agent 
or any other person with his consent was denied . As 
a proposition of law it was submitted that this poster 
does not contain statements of fact relating to the 


In paragraph 22 , the petitioner alleges that he served 
a notice on respondent No. 1 ; respondent No . 5 ; Sood 
Litho Press and Sham Lal and with this notice a copy 
of the handbill ( Annexure A to the petition ) was also 


Sc . (11) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / A ) VINA 24 , 1844 

4501 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - " - -- - - - - - - - - -- - - - 

-- - - . . . - - -- - - - - - - - -- - - -- - 

- . — . 
personal character or conduct of thie petitioner Jeason that the hatawill containeil statements of fact which 
ably calculated to prejudice the prospects of the poli were false and which were either believed to be false 
tioner s election . 

or rol ) elieved to be truc by respondent No. 1 and 
With regard to the allegations in paragraph 22 and 

11ut those statement related to the persona character 
23 of the petition , respondent No . i admitted service 

or conduct of the petitioner and not to his Cunduct 
of the notice dated February , 25 , 1971 upon himsell 

as a member of Parliament. The bringing out of the 
together with a copy of the aforesaid handbill ( anne 

poster (annexure B to the petition ) into existence 
xure A to the petition ). The allegations in the notice 

afte : the cleclaration of the result was denied . 
were stated to have been repudiated by replying to ine 

The correctness of the pleas raised by respondent 
said notice . 

vo . 1 in paragraph 21 of the written statement was 
In reply to paragraph 24 of the petition , 

denied und in reply to paragraphs 22 and 23 of the 

respon 
dent No . 1 denied that Jai Parkash Goel ( respondent 

written staiement it was asserted that respondent 
No. 5 ) was his active worker , agent or a counting 

No . 1 had sent a reply to the notice only after the 
agent. Complaint was made with regard to the lack 

declaration of the result . Here again , the pleadings 
of particulars in relation to the meotings alleged to 

were improved because in the petition were was a 
have been addressed by respondent No . 5 . It was 

Genial of any reply to the notice . 
denied that he and respondent No . 5 used to be common 

With reference to paragraph 24 of the written 
speakers in election meetings held in the constituency statement, the petitioner reasserted that Jai Parkash 
during the election days. Complaint was again made Goel ( respondent No . 5 ) was the active worker , agent 
about the non - specification of the statements alleged to or counting Agent of respondent No . 1 . The other 
have been made at the meetings and the non - produc vlenials in paragraph 24 of the written statements 
tion of the transcript of the alleged tape record . 

were tuled to be false and wrong . 
The allegation in paragraph 25 of the petition that 
respondent No . I had cxceeded the prescribed limit 

With regard to paragraphs 25 and 26 of the written 
of expenses was denied : particulars of the al eged 

statement, IL WAS reasserted that respondent No. 1 
expenditure or over Rs. 5 lacs were called for and 

had spent more than Rs. 5 lacs and the vetails of this 
it was averted that respondent No. I had logod true . 

expense were not necessary in law . Then , with re 
full and correct account of expenditure As required 

gard to the receipts and vouchers Aled by respondent 
by law . 

No . 1 with his return of election expenses specific 

objections are taken as to the infirmities therein 
Replication to the written statement of respondent which are not necessary to be set out. 
NO, I was Hled on July 15, 1971 by the petitioner . 
With regard to paragraph 20 of the written state 

It is , therefore , clear that the petitioner came out 
mont, the statements made in the petition were re with the case that both respondent No. 5 and Shain 
iterated . It was averred that Sham Lal, Mantri Lal were agents of respondent No . 1 particu orly in 
( Secretary ) , People s Council, Sadar , was a Congress connection with the printing and publicatien of the 
worker and actively worked for respondent No . 1. handbill (annexure A ) and the poster (annexure 
Then the case male out in the petition was improved B ) which were alleged to have been got printed 
by stating : - 

from Sood Litho Press . 
" Respondent No. 1 has been responsible not only 

Then as a result of my order dated August 6 , 1971, 
for the publication and circu ation of An 

the petitioner filed better particulars on Auguyt 19 , 
nexure A and B he has also been l esponsi 

1971; and there is justification in the criticism on 
ble for the publication and circulation of 

behalf of respondent No. 1 that the petitioner tried to 
many other handbills and posters amounting 

improve his position with regard to the allegations 
to the corrupt practices . Such handbills are 

in paragraphs 20 to 24 of the petition and the repli 
Antiexules A . 6 , A3, A3, A4 and A . 5 " , 

cation . Instead of confining himself to the Sood 

Litho Press, it was stated the particulars that the 
These annexures which are maillscripts ur hanbills 

handbill ( annexure A ) had been printed on 3rd 
were Aled with the replication and it is averred that 

February 1971 and 24th February 1971 through Sood 
these handbills were also yot printed from Sood Litho 

Litho Press and also from Sarvdeshik Prakashan Ltu . 
Press and that there had been il systematic programme 

hanush Sood Litho Press and also from other presses 
of maligning the petitioner and to issue the circulars 

through Sood Litho Press under the press-line of Soor! 
to achieve the same object Os was ichievou liv thn 

Litho Pross. But the persons who got this handbill 
publication and circulation of annexures A and B . 

print d end published by Sood Litho Press remained 
It was avorrect that the denial of respondent No . 1 

the same, numely , respondent No . 1 ; Dr. Roshan Lal: 
about knowing Sham Lal was believed by the report 

Sham Lal and respondent No . 5 . Its publication wir 
lodged by Shail Tal with the police on 19th February 

allcgeri also to have been done by 11 othịr persons 
1971 in Police Station Sadar Bazar against Kewal Ram , 

out of whom only two need be mentioned , namely , 
rephew of the petlitoner , where it was stated that 

Lila Ram of Nai Basti, Ramnagar , Delhi, and Shiman 
Sham Lal was a Congress worker and was doing elec 

Lal c / o Bajaj Cloth House , Azad Market , Pul Ban 
lion propaganda for the Congress candidate in Mandi 

gash , Delhi. 
Rui which forms a part of the Sadar Parliamentary 
Constituency. With regard to respondent No. 5 it 

There was a further improvement in the petitioner s 
was asserted that he had been giving out the subject 

case when he fled his list of reliance on October 17 , 
matter of the handbill annexures A and the poster 

1971 . In this list of reliance, he mentioned , in addi 
annexurs B to the petition in his speeches in the 

tion to the account books of Sood Litho Press and 
meetings asking the voters not to vote for the peti 

Sarvdeshik Prakashan Ltd ., the account books of Uni 
lioner and that respondent No. I used to be present 

versal Press, Gulshan Art Press ; Chitra Art Press and 
and delivered similar speeches in similar tones in 

Jai Printing Press to show that annexure A and B 
yuch meetings . Then the petitioner has given eight 

to the petition were got printed at these presses also . 
dates between 12th February 1971 and 2nd March 
1971 in Police Station , Sadar Bazar against Kewal Ram , 

It is in the background of the aforesaid facts that 
The rep y to the notice was admitted to have been 

the various items of experise which are alleged by the 
received by the petitioner on March 13, 1971 , and 

petitioner to have been incurred or authorised hy 
it was a verred that it had been poste after respond . 

respondent No. 1 over and above the admitted items 
ent No. 1 had heon declared plerted and that he did 

will have to be examined . 
not disown his liability or responsibility for the public 
cation or circulation of the impuned handbills ani ! 

I will Orst deal with the alleged expenses relatius 
posters until he was declared clecterl. It was incerter 

to the printing of the handhlills annexure s A . 2 0 


4502 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 

[ PART - 
- - = - = - -- - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
4 . 6 and other plied with the replication . An ilem uf Press have a ledger account with the press of this 
Rs. 525 / - is claimed by the petitioner under this head . witness at page 139 ; the entry with regard to bill 
These are t re handbills which were Aled by the peti No, 8991 ( Exhibit P . W . i119 ) K not made in thọ 
tioner with his replication . These case of respondent ledger account of Sond Litn Press as it ought to 
No. 1 is that he did not get any handb ! ls like the have been made on 2411 [ uary 1971 but in the 
handbills A . 2 to A . 6 printed . To prove this item , account entitled " Chhupai Account" , on 26th February 
the petitioner first produced Babu Ram Sharma ( P . W . 1971 . The cross - examination. was directed to alleged 
11 ) . He is an employee in the Servdeshik Press in interpolations in the entire , in the ledger ( Exhibit 
Putaudi blouse , Daryaganj, Delhi, since 1948 . This P . W . 55 , 1 ) and the Works Register (Exhibit P . W . 
press is owned by Sarvdeshik Prakashan Lid . which 55 / 1 ) . The witness admittert at the figure l in 
is a limited company. It is not disputed that Sood the figures 8991 in the Chainsi Account had been 
Litho Press has also its press in the same Pataudi over - written and so were he Agilyes *52 in the amount 
House hullding. This witness was examined on Dec 

525 against this hill . He server the suggestion that 
ember 22 , 1971 i.e ., about 5 months ufter the filing the figures 8991 had been substituted for the figure 
of the replication and 3 months afte ; the filing of the * 39988 but he admitted that the entry relating to bill 
list of re iance . He stated that on 22nd Felruary NO . 8488 was between the iwc lines on the ledger page 
1971. Krishan Avtar Aggarwal , proprietor ciť Soud and not on the line itse I like other entries . He 
Litho Press , came to Sarvdeshik Press in the company clenied the suggestion that ita original entry against 
of respondent No . 1 respondent No. 3 and Taufiq bill No . 8981 was for Rs. 45 and that 4 had been 
Farooqi ( P . W . 2 ), Manager of Sood Litho Press , to substituted by 2 and the Aguic of 5 had been added 
got some work done . These persons wantz :1 nine before it. He admitted that on 24th February 1971, 
pamphlets , drafts of which they had brought to be there was another entry with regard to a bill bearing 
printed . The witness then produced the craft pan 

No. 8991 for Rs. 6 . Although the press maintained 
phists . ( Exhibit P . W . 11 / 1 to Exhibit P . W . J1 / 8 ) . 

a r ?ceipt hook , he stated that he had not issued any 
Some of these pamphlets have certain notings thereon receipt in respect of bill No . 8991 when payment was 
which were identified by this witness to be those of made on 26th February 1971 as , according to him , 
Krishan Avtar Aggarwal and Taufiq Farooqi ( P . W . receipts were issued only when the customer wanted 
2 ) . This withess stated that these han ;115, Ave of it . This excuse appears to be a patent excuse of other 
which corresponded to the handbills A . 2 to A . 6 ( Aled witnesses of the petitioner who have sought to prove 
with the replication ) were printed at his press fur other items, which are dealt with later , the liability 
which bill No . 8991 dated 24th February 197i was for which is sought to be fastened on respondent 
made . Copy of the bill is Exhibit PW 11 / 9 and it is 

No . l . He admitted that the payment regarding bill 
for Rs. 525 . He stated that the bill was only for 

No. 8.991 was not entered in the receipt book . On this 
printing and not for the paper utilised . This bill is 

question it is only necessary to mention one other 
made out not in the name of reincarnent No . 1 huc 

Pact deposed to by this witness that he had not men 
in the name of Sood Litho Pres. T . copy of this 

tioned to anybody the fact that the pamphlets refer 
Gill in the bill book produced by this wtress bears 

red to by him had been printeri iy his press for Sood 
ar endorsement of payment on 251h February 1971 

Litho Press nor had he nentioned to anybody about 
which is stated to be carried to the cash book . The 

the facts stated hy him in Court. 
witness further states that the printing of those w ile 
pamphlets was started in the night of 22nd February 
1971 and continued till the nutt of 24th February 

Serious challenge was , therefore thrown on the 
1971 ; altogether 31 ,000 pamphlets were printed out of 

genuneness of the copy of the bill Exhibit P . W . 11 / 9 
which 12 ,000 were printed in the night of 22nd Feb and the entries relating inereto in the ledger ( Exhibit 
ruary 1971; 10 , 000 during the day of 23rd February P . W . 55 / 5 ). This witness was rot able to explain 
1971 and 9 , 000 during the day , 2416 February 171 fully the discrepancies , and the over -writings. TO 
and respondent No . 1 took delivery of whatever had 

ineet this difficulty , the petitioner produced Chatter 
been printed on 23rd February ! 071. respondent No. 

Sain ( P . W . 55 ) . He states that in 1951 he became the 
3 took dellvery of some of t e prichirts in the even Honorary in charge ( Prabalhitkl of the Sarvdeshik 
ing of 23rd February 1971 and the balance was dell 

Press and the declaration of this press was made in 
vered on 24th February 1971. It appears from the 

his name in 1951. He reninned in charge of this 
prools of the pamphlet Exhibit P . W . 11 / 3 that the 

press till 1962 but the deciuration in his name 
press linc printed was of Sarvesh . k Press but it 17 

continued . He admitted that he was a Director of 
alleged to have been struck C I hy Chhatter Sulu 

the Sarvdeshik Prakashan Limited which owns this 
( P . W . 55 ) who substituted the name of Sood Litho 

press. He stated that the press kept two books, 
Press . This witness dso producerl his works Regis 

namely , cash book and the journal book . Then he 
ter which was later on explied as Exhibit P . W 

amplified his statement by stating that the press main 
55 / 5 during the examination of Chatter Sain ( P . W . 

tained a ledger in addition and stated that the journal 
55 ). This witness aiso lucer the cash hook of 

book pertains to the credit transactions and the ledger 
this press for the perlod 13th April 1969 to 12th April 

contains entried both of the cash transactions entered 
1971 and stated that payment of the bill No . 8991 

in the journal book ( Exhibit PW . 55 / 2 ) . He explaineri 
( Exhibit P . W . 11 / 9 ) is entered in the cash book at 
page 135 on 26th February 1971. He admitted 

that the entry dated 24th February , 1971 of Rs. 6 / - in 
to 

the ledger at page 21 relating to bill No. 8991 had 
maintaining the accounts of this press and making 

been carried from journal book page 112 in respect of 
this entry. Copy of the entrie : li the cash book on 

bill No. 8991 but in the journal book the bill mentioned 
26th February 1971 preparca tv this witness is Exhibit 

in 8845 . He also produced another bill hook (exhibit 
P . W . 11 / 11 and the cish book itself was later exhi 
bited as Exhibit P . W . 55 / 6 through Chatter Sain P . W . 55 / 3 ) relating to the aforesala amount of Rs. 6 

for bill No . 8845 ( Exhibit 
( P . W . 55 ) . The witness also produced the ledger of 

P . W . 55 / 3 - A ) dated 24th 

February, 1971 made out in the name of Arya Mitter 
the press for the period 13th April 1970 to 12th April 
1971 and stated that the payment of the hill is record 

Mandal, Daryaganj, Delhi, for Rs. 26 / - out of which 
ed at page 21 in the Chhapi account, Copy of these 

Rs. 20 were for the cost of 200 post cards ulleged to 
entries Is Exhibit P . W . 11 / 12 and the ledger was have been purchased for Arya Mitter Mandal. He 
later marked as Exhibit P . W . 55 / 1 through Chatter then connected the entry relating to these cards with 
Sain (PW . 55 ) . This witness 2 .mitted having made page 36 of the ledger ( Exhibit PW 55 / 1 ) pertaining 
the entries in the ledger also in cross - examination to Arya Mitter Mandal and stated that the total amount 
hy respondent No . 1 , the witness denied knowing the of the bill had been entered in the ledger at page 176 
Directors of the aforesaid company other than Shri under date 24th February , 1971 in the ledger account 
Krishan , Director in cha . sc . although this witness of Arya Mitter Mandal. He admitted that at page 21 
himself had fled the list of Directors of this company of the ledger containing the Chhapai Account , the 
with the Registrar of Companies on 1th January 1972 . bill No. 8845 had been wrongly entered as 8991. HO 
This list is Exhibit 5 .7 . Ajllogh the Soci Tithi then produced the receipt book of the press for the 


S5c , 3 ( 1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 79, 1844 

4503 
- - - = = - - - - - - - 

-.. . - .. - - - - - - - - 

--- - - - - - - - - - 
period 22nd June, 1970 to 31st March , 1971 ( Exhibit At this stage . I would like to state what I consider 
PW . 55 / 4 ) and stated that receipts for cash payments to be the correct approach to determine whether the 
were issued only when the customers wanted them but returned candidate has incurred or authorised a parti 
otherwise the cash payments were endorsed on the c ular item of expense . In some instances in this case 
bill itself. This part of the statement of this witness alleged suppliers have merely produced copies of their 
which corroborates the statement of Babu Ram Sharma bill books unsupported by any other accounts . In 
( P . W . 11 ) was legitimately criticised on the ground that others, they have produced copies of their bill books sup 
the press being owned by a limited company and ported either by a cash book or a cash books and ledger . 
admittedly maintaining receipt books, it was incon If the particular item of expense is denied by the 
cevable that they will not issue receipts for every returned candidate , the burden to be, discharged by 
ade to them . He then confirmei 

the petitioner in an election petition will be the same 
ment of Babu Ram Sharma ( P . W . 11) that they had as ihe burden upon the alleged supplier if he were 
received printing work from Sood Litho Press in rcs to file a suit for recovery of money for that item . It 
pect of nine pamphlets ( Exhibit PW . 11 / 1 to Exhibit 

is true that books of account legularly maintained in 
P . W . 11 / 8 ) and stated that he did proof reading of the course of business are admissible as relevant pieces 
Exhibit P . W . 11 / 3 ; Exhibit PW . 11 / 4 and Exhibit PW . of evidence but by tlicinselves they are not sufficient 
11 / 6 which bore his markings . He further stated that 

io charge any person with liability . To be books kepi 
152 reams of paper were consumed in printing 31, 000 

in the regular course of business, particularly a cash 
pamphlets like A . 2 to 1 .6 and that the paper had bonk , it is necessary to show that daily balances were 
been supplied by Sood Litho Press . It appears from 

siruck in the cash book and Carricd over to the next 
the cross - examination of this witness that he did nou day . Even in an action by the supplier the sort of 
getting any salary from the press or from the Salv evidence which has been led by the petitioner in this 
deshik Arya Pratinidhi Sabha Although he does not 

case to prove particular items of expense against the 
work in the press or keep its books, he was produced returned candidate will not be enough for a decree to 
to reconsile various enteried therein . He admitted be passed against the returned candidate particularly 
tha ! Ram Gopal Shalwala , who contested clections to 

in the face of his clear and categoric denial. 
Parliament on the Jana Sangh Symbol, in 1967. was 
the Secretary of the Sarydeshik Arya Pratinidhi Sabha 

As already stated , the evidence of Babu Ram Sharma 
and that he contested the 1971 elections of Parliament ( P . W . 11 ) is that respondent No . 1 had come to his 
also on the Jan Sangh symbol but lost to the Congress press accompanied by Krishan Avtar Aggarwal, prop 
candidate . He admitted that Ram Gopal Shalwala rietor of Sood Litho Press ; Taufeeq Farooqi ( P . W . 2 ) 
and , amongst other , Mr. S . N . Marwaha , Advocate for and respondent No. 5 Taufeeq Faroogi ( P . W . 2 ) was 
the petitioner, were Directors of the Sarvdeshik Pra not put any question by the petitioner when he was 
kashan Limited which owns the press and that Mr. examined in Court with regard to the alleged print 
Marwaha is also a Treasurer of the Sarvdeshik Arya ing of Exhibit PW . 11 / 1 to Exhibit PW . 11 / 8 Krishan 
Pratinidhi Sabha since June, 1971. He denicd sugges Avtar Aggarwal has not been produced and the sugges 
tions in cross - cxamination that any manipulations had tion by the petitioner in his statement that Krishan 
heen done with respect to the bill No. 8991 ( Exhibit Avtar Aggarwal is related to respondent No. 5 , apart 
PW . 11 / 9 ) . It is not necessary to respert any more from not having been proved , is not sufficient justifi 
of what this witness has said and I would like to give cation for not producing Krishan Avtar Aggarwal. Res 
my own impressions of the documents which pertain pondent No. 1 has denied going to Sarvdeshik press 
to this bill No. 8991 ( Exhibit PW . 11 / 9 ) for Rs. 525 / for getting these pamphlets printed or for any other 

purpose . Respondent No. 5 has also denied this . He 
The first point to be noticed is that although the 

has also denied his alleged writings on some of the 
bill is made out in the name of Sood Litho Press which 
admittedly has ledger account with the Sarydeshik 

draft pamphlcts. 
Press and which was paid on 26th February , 1971, 

It may also be mentioned that in his statement on 
the bill is not debited to the ledger account of Sood 3rd February , 1971, the petitioner stated that pamph 
Litho Press on 24th February , 1971 hut is entered in lets A , 2 to A . 6 which are some of the pamphlets out 
the Chhapai Account . In the Chhapai account which of the pamphlets Exhibits PW , 11 / 1 to Exhibits PW . 
is at page 21 of the ledger. ( Exhibit PW . 55 / 1 ) there 11 / 8 were got published sometime near about 23rd 
is a clear entry under date 24th February , 1971 relating of 24th February . 1971 and in his statement dated 
to bill No. 8991 for Rs. 6 which is stated to have 25th January , 1972 , he has stated while talking about 
been brought in from journal page 112 . Lower down 

annexure A before going to his counsel to serve a 
on this page, against the date 26th February , 1971, notice, that some of his other workers hud also met 
therefore is another entry relating to bill No. 8991 

him and had shown him other handbills which had 

been issued against him . Since there are not other 
from cash book page 135 . I find from my visual obser pamphlets produced by the petitioner , it would be a 
vation contrary to what the aforesaid two witnesses legitimate inference that he was rcferring to the pam 
have stated that the over -writing of the figure l in phlets Exhibit PW . 11 / 1 to Exhibit PW . 11 / 8 . If so , 
the bill No. 8991 against 26th February , 1971 is clearly It is suprising that when he served notice upon res 
in a different ink than the ink of the Agures 899 . pondent No. 1 and respondent No. 5 through his 
Further thc figures *52 are definitely in a different ink coluisel Lala Ram Gupta (PW . 4 ) , on 25th Februarv , 
than the last figure of 5 in the amount Rs. 525 / - and 1971, he did not mention the pamphlets Exhibits PW . 

11 / 1 to Exhibit PW 1108. Therefore, the argument of 
another figure which looks like 4 , Then under the 

respondent No. 1 that pamphlets Exhibit PW . 11/ 1 
same date 26th February, 1971, another bill No. 8988 to Exhibit PW . 11 / 8 had been brought into existence 
for Rs. 45 / - has been interposed between the two later for the purpose of this petition cannot be said 
printed lines on this page and the ink which this entry to be unjustiArd particularly in view of the fact that 
has been written appears to be more similar to the 
ink of the over -written figure l and the over -written 

replication . 
foure 52 than with the ink of the other figures and 
Antries . Then in the Works Register ( Exhibit PW . Taking all these facts into consideration I am of 
55 / 5 ) at page 33 wherever there is an entry regarding the view that the entries in the ledger and Works 
bilt Exhibit PW . 11 / 9 , there is over -writing of the Register of this press are extremely suspicious and 
figure 1 in the figures 8991 and there is an entry unreliable and cannot go to support the bill No. 8991 
on this page relating to bill No. 8991 for 200 post - cards ( Fxhibit PW . 11/ 9 ) in the name of Sood Litho Press 
for Arya Mitter Mandal. I have already mentioner or to connect he damnhlets Exhibit PW , 11 / 1 to Exhibit 
that even though the press maintains receipts books , PW 11 / 8 with the Sood Litho Press and much less 
there is no receipt for Rs 5251 - 199inst the bill No with respondent No. 1 . The netitioner has , therefore, 
8991 dated 24th February, 1971. 

failed to prove that respondent No 1 incurred or 


- 


- - - 


4104 TIL GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 

iPakr l . 
- - -- - - - - - -- - -- - - - -- - -- - - - - - - - - --- - - 

- - - 

- - 
authorized the expenditure of Rs. 525 ) - with regard admitted that in the cash memo, book which he pro 
to cht alleged pamphlels . 

duced there were cash memo. on which the name of 

the cus,omer did not appear . He states that payment 
Connected with this item is a claim made in respect 

was made to him in cash by respondent No . 1 but 
of a sum of Rs. 3 , 220 / - beilig the alleged cost of paper 

he Wels not able to produce any writing of respondent 
which would be required for printing the aforesaid No. 1 with regard to the purchase of this paper nor 
pamphlets as also the paniphlet untiexure A . 13, alsu 

did he produce the delivery receipt which he must 
filed with the replication . Babu Ram Sharnia ( PW . 

have obtained from 
11 ) has not statud catergorically that the paper was 

the person to whom the paper 

wus delivered . With regard to the claim made by 
supplied by respondeat No, I but he has stated that 

thuis witness, Iny remarks relating to the approach to 
the charges in thie bill Exhibit PW . 11 / 9 l or Rs. 525 / 

such matters made earlier fully apply because in view 
were only for printing suggesting that the paper was 

of the denial of respondent No. 1 about the purchase 
supplied by or on behalf of respondent No . 1 . He has 

of this paper, the oral testimony of this witness even 
then stated that 62 rcams were utilized for printing 

coupled with the entry in the cash book is tot suffl 
the paniphlets Exhibit PW . 11 / 1 to Exhibit PW . 11 / 8 

cient to charge respondent No. 1 with liability parti 
and he has further stated that four reams were uti: 

cularly when the delivery receipt which must have 
lized for printing pamphlets like A . 13 . Chatler Saio 

bren produced . This witness also gave the same away 
( P . W . 56 ) has not wholly confirmed this statement 

by the last sentence in his cross -examination by stat 
because in his evidence on 21st January, 1971, he has 

ing that he had not mentioned about the sale of this 
stated that 62 rcains were consumed in printing 31, 000 

paper or about any other thing to any other person 
pamphlets like A . 2 to A .6 , that is , only 5 out of the 

till the say he made the statement in Court on 3rd 
9 pamphlets . The cost of paper is alleged to be at 

Januarv. 1972. How then did the petitioner produco 
the late of Rs. 50 / - per ream for the paper alleged 

this witness to depose about the sale of paper and to 
to have been utilized for Exhibit PW . 11 / 1 to Exhibit 

bring with him copy of the cash memo, and his cash 
PW . 11 / 8 and at the rate of Rs. 30 / - per ream for the 

hank allegedly relating to this transaction ? 
painphlet A . 13 . No independent evidence has been 
adduced to prove the sourse of this paper or to esta 

The connected item of Rs. 662 / - for printing is de 
blish that this paper was purchased or supplied by or posed to by Krishan Lal ( PW41) , proprietor of Gul 
on behalf of respondent No . 1 . Since the entire story shan Art Press , who has produced the aforesaid bill. 
relating to the printing of the pamphlets Exhibit PW . 
11 / 1 to Exhibit PW . 11 / 8 h : s been held by me to be crant No . 1 and Mrs . Indira Gandhi s appeal for the 
suspicious and unreliable , this item of alleged expense former during the election for which purpose respon 
over and above the ommitted expense trust also be dent No. 1 had come to him . On getting the order 
held to have been not proved, 

from respondent No. 1 this witness states that he asked 

respondent No. I to send the paper which was supplied 
Tlie next item is of Rs. 920 . 40 being the cost of 25 

to him on 20th February , 1971 having been brought 
reams of paper alleged to have been purchased by 

by a Thelewala from Sadar Bazar . He further states 
respondent No . 1 from Om Parkash Sachdeva (PW . 21) . 

that he had given an acknowledgement to the Thele 
Connected with it is another item of Rs. 662 / - for 

punla of having recelved 27 reams of paper According 
printing of this paper alleged to have been done by 

to this witness therefore , he received 27 reams of 
Krishan Lal ( PW . 411 of Gulshan Art Press . He Aled 

paper which had been brought him by the Thelewala 
his bill Exhibit PW , 41/ 1 dated 22nd February , 1971 

whereas according to Om Parkash Sachdeva (PW . 21 ) 
for Rs. 362 / - . for printing the life sketch of respon 

only 25 reams of paper had been purchased by res 
dont No . 1 and bill Exhibit PW . 41 / 2 dated 26th Feb 

pondent No. 1 and despatched to the press of this 
ruary , 1971 for Rs . 300 / - for printing Mrs . Indira 

witness. There is no explanation by this witness as 
Gandhi s appeal for respondent No. 1 . Om Parkash 

to who had supplied the additional two reams of paper . 
Sachdeva (PW . 21 ) has already been disbelieved by 

This fact throws great deal of doubt upon the afore 
me in connection with an alleged meeting at Roshanara 

said two bills Exhibits PW . 41 / 1 and PW . 41 / 2 as 
Road on 19th February , 1971 of respondent No. 1 . 1 

appertaining to respondent No . 1. This witness has 
may only repeat that it was only in the cross - exami 

not produced any books of account in support of these 
nation that he disclosed that he was President of the 

hills and admits that they are copies of the bills in 
Jana Şangha Mandal, Rahatganj, for the last 3 years 

the bill book produced by him . These two bills men 
during which he had been a member of the Jana 

tion the name of regpondent No . 1 but there is no 
Sangha . With regard to this paper, he produced his 

written order placed by him with this witness. His 
cash memo. book containing copy of the cash memo. 

cxplanation is the usual one that the name of every 
No. 3777 dated 22nd February , 1971 ( Exhibit PW . 21 / 1 ) 

partv is mentioned in the bill unless he is told by the 
for Rs. 920 . 40 being the cost of 25 reams of paper of 

morty not to mention the name. To say the least . it 
the size of 20 inch , X 30 inch , to the extent of Rs . 885 ) - 

is susprising that respondent No. 1 did not give these 
plus Rs 35 . 40 for sale - tax . This copy of cash memo. 

instructions to this witness if he had really wanted to 
is not easy to decipher. The witness has stated that 

suppress his name as being the person at those instance 
the name of respondent No. 1 appears on the copy of 

any printing work was done by this witness . This 
this cash memo. He has further stated that respon 

witness has further stated that respondent No. 1 WAY 
dent No . 1, accompanied by another person , whose 

accompanied by Sardar Basant Singh ( RIW . 13 ) when 
name he does not know had personally come to his 

he came to place the order and by Tirath Ram (RIW . 
shop and had purchased this paper which was des 

30 ) when he came to take delivery of the printed 
patched by him to Gulshan Art Press upon a Thela 

matter . Respondent No. 1 ; Basant Singh (RIW . 13 ) 
called by him under the instructions of respondent No. 

and Tirath Ram ( RIW . 30 ) have all denied having 
1 hut no representative of respondent No . 1 has accom 

gone to the printing press of this witness. 
panied the paper to the Press . He admitted that ho 

I may here mention section 127A of the Act which 
gets an acknowledgement of delivery from the person 

contains restrictions on the printing of pamphlets , 
to whom the goods are delivered and these acknow 

posters, etc . This section , inter alia rcquires a decla 
ledgements are tagged by him . Then he states that 

ration as to the indentity of the publisher thereof signeri 
cash sales are entered in the cash book which he had 

by him and attested by two persons and the despatch 
brought to the Court and this sale was entered at 

of a copy of the printed matter to the Chief Electoral 
page No . 89 ( Exhibit PW . 21 / 2 ) in the current cash 

Omcar . This witness admits that he neither obtained 
book . He admitted in cross - examination that the cash 

any declaration from respondent No. 1 nor did he send 

a copy of the printed matter to the Returning Oficer, 
against cash memo, No. 3777 but that is not unusual. 

A suggestion was made that he was a partner of 
It was suggested to him that the name which appeared 

Manoliar Lal Kumar, a Jana Sangh Councillor. but 
oririnally on this cash memo. had been rubbed off 

tha suggestion was denied . However , the witness 
and the name of restondent No. 1 had been suhsti 

admitted that in 1964, he, Manohar Lal Kumar and 
tuted hut he denier the suggestion , He, however, 


$ 5c . 3 ( 1) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / AwVINA 29, 1894 


4505 


two other persons had jointly purchased land for buil 
ding a market . It cannot , therefore , be said that the 
witness is completely disinterested in the petitioner 
or in the jana Sangh . The witness also admitted 
that the bills in the bill book which he produced had 
been prepared by his Manager, Manohar Lal, but 
Manohar Lal has not been produced . Taking an over 
all view of the testimony of Om Parkash Sachdeva 
( P . W . 21) and Krishan Lal (PW . 41 ) , I am of the 
opinion that the petitioner has failed to establish or 
prove the incurring or authorisation by respondent 
No. 1 of the aforesaid two items of Rs. 920 .40 and Rs. 
662 . No significance can be attached to the fact that 
respondent No . 1 has admitted that he got his life 
sketch and Mrs . Indira Gandhi s appeal printed . Acc 
ording to respondent No. 1 , these were printed only by 
Veerendra Printers . The petitioner argues that in 
face of the said admission , it should be held that res 
pondent No . 1 had got these two things printed also 
from Krishan Lal ( P . W . 41 ) on the paper purchased 
from Om Parkash Sachadeva (PW . 41 ) . In view of 
the fact that no connection between respondent No. 1 
and the purchase of paper from Om Parkash Sachdeva 
( PW . 21 ) or the printing thereon from Krishan Lal 
(PW . 41 , has been established , this argument cannot 
be accepted . 

The next item of additional expense claimed by the 
petitioner is of Rs. 1142. 50 for furniture alleged to live 
been supplied by Parmodh Kumar ( PW . 15 ) through 
his bills Exhibit PW . 15 / 1 - A ; Exhibit PW . 15 / 1 - B ana 
Exhibit PW . 15 / 1 - C . The testimony of this witness 
has already been rejected by me while discussing the 
question of aditional furniture alleged to have 
been supplied for the meetings of respondent No . 1 . 
Nothing more need be said about this item which I 
hold disproved so as to charge respondent No . 1 with 
having incurred or authorised this expenses . 

Then I come to the item of Rs. 609 . 50 for painting 
of banners from Prem Chand Grover (PW .51) plus a 
sum of Rs. 277.50 being the price of cloth used for 
these banners . Respondent No. 1 has returned an 
expense of Rs. 112 for 14 cloth banners through this 
very witness vide bill Exhibit R . 13 , Prem Chand 
Grover ( PW .51 has stated that during the elections 
of 1971 , he made cloth banners for several parties 
like the Congress and the Jana Sangh and other inde 
pendent candidates. He maintains a cash book , a bill 
book and a ledger . He produced his bill book which 
contained copies of the following three bills : — 
( 1 ) Bill No . 905 ( Exhibit PW .51/ 3 ) dated 15th 

February 1971 is for Rs. 112 for 14 ( 1341) 
banners. This is the admitted bill which does 

not contain the name of respondent No. 1. 
( 2 ) Bill No. 907 (Exhibit PW . 51 / 2 ) dated 16th 

February 1971 is for painting of all banners 
for Rs. 220 . This bill contains an endorse 
ment of cash and the name of respondent No. 


witness also gives the usual explanation that the nane 
uf ine custoiner is not mentioned in the bill it ine 
customer so desires and that- and this is surprising 
ine person who had gone to him had told him not to 
put down the name of respondent No . 1 in the admit 
iêu bul No. 905 ( Exhibit PW .51 / 3 ) . He admits that at 
the time of taking orders, he makes a record thereof on 
Smali slips whicn , according to nim , are destroyed 
after the work is completed . He also admits that 
although he maintains a register , the receipt of cloth 
or of the order pertaining to these bills is not men 
tioned in that register and he explained voluntarily , 
that this sort of jobs are not mentioned in that regis 
ter which is meant for big jobs like jobs from Burmah 
Shell etc . He denied the suggestion that he had men 
tioned the name of respondent No. 1 in the two dis 
puted bills later . He admits that he maintains another 
bill book which relates to orders where he supplies 
the cloth also but that bill book is not produced . He 
admits that he does not maintain any receipt book . 
Then , he was confronted by his bill Exhibit Rs. 5 / 
and his estimate Exhibit Rs . 6 . Both these documents 
contain the rates for painting of banners including the 
cos , of cloth . The rate in the bill is Rs. 9 .45 and the 
rate in the estimate is Rs. 5 / - per banner . It may 
here be mentioned that the rates in the bills Exhibit 
PW . 51 / 1 to Exhibit PW . 51 / 3 work out to Rs. 9 
or Rs. 8 / - per banner . When confronted by these two 
documents , he explained that the rates mentioned 
therein are concessional. The explanation of this wit 
ness that the representative of respondent No. 1 who 
had placed the order with him had asked him not to 
mention the name of respondent No. 1 in the admitted 
bill and had not made by request in that behalf in 
the two disputed bills does not appeal to me. It will 
be noticed that the difference in the amount of the 
admitted bill Exhibit PW . 51 / 3 and the amount of the 
Gisputed bill Exhibit PW . 51 / 1 is of only Rs. 5 / - . If 
the witness is to be believed , the original bills must 
be in the custody of respondent No. 1 . Why then 
should respondent No . 1 not file with his return of 
expenses the disputed bill Exhibit PW . 51 / 1 and file 
only the admitted bill Exhibit PW . 51/ 3 which does 
not contain his name when the diffcrence is only of 
Rs. 5 / - ? It is argued on behalf of the petitioner that 
it is because of such a lire that a wrongful act is 
detected but the argument has only to be stated to 
be rejected . In view of my earlier observations re 
garding the standard of proof in respect of items the 
responsibility for which is sought to be fastened upon 
thereturned candidate , I have not hesitation in reject 
ing the testimony of this witness, which cannot be 
relied upon in the absence of any written order by 
respondent No. 1 or any other document to connect 
respondent No. 1 with the disputed bills . 

It is further argued on behalf of the petitioner that 
no person has appeared on behalf of respondent No. 1 
to account for the 14 admitted banners while there is 
evidence on the record in the statement of O . P . Bharti 
(RIW 23 ) dated 16th March , 1972 that he saw banners 
of the Congress on all the main road in Sadar Parlia 
mentary Constituency in terms of thousands. Assum 
ing that this statement of O . P . Bharti (RIW . 23 ) is 
true it is not enough to charge. respondent No . 1 
with the corrupt practice under section 123 ( 4 ) of the 
Act unless it is proved that the expense for such thou 
sands of banners was incurred or authorised by him 
or by his election agent. Such vague and indefinite 
evidence cannot be taken into consideration to fasten 
liability on the return candidate in terms of money . 


( 3 ) Bill No. 909 ( Exhibit PW . 51 / 1 ) dated 24th 

February 1971 is for painting of 13 banners 
for Rs. 117 . This bill also contains an en 
dorsement of cash and the name of respondent 
No. 1. 


The witness states that these bills are only in respect 
of painting and do not include the price of cloth which 
according to him , was supplied by the son of respon 
dent No . 1 who was accompanied by an artist known 
as Deepak . He further states that Dr. Roshan Lal 
(RIW . 34 ) was the person who made payment of these 
bills which are entered in his ledger and cash book . 
He then states that 39 meters of cloth would be re 
quired for the banners in bill Exhibit PW . 51 / 1 ; 33 
meters for the banners in bill Exhibit PW . 51/ 2 and 
42 yards for the banners in bill Exhibit PW .51 / 3 . 
According to this witness , the long cloth required for 
these banners was priced at between Rs. 2 .50 
and Rs. 3 per meter. In cross - examination , this 


The artist Deepak , mentioned by this winess , has 
rnt been produced by the petitioner although he was 
rited as a witness. Dr. Roshan Lal (RIW 34 ) , election 
agent of respondent No . 1 , in his statement dated 28th 
March , 1971. denies knowing Prern Chand Gover or 
his firm Krishna Art Studio or having supplied any 
cloth to him or making any payment. In his state 
ment dates 5th April, 1972, respondent No. 1 denies 
knorrin Prem Chand Grover (PW .51) and states that 


4506 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART 11 


SULIN 


he saw am íor the first time when this witness came 
to Court to give evidence although he admits that his 
son , Rajesh , had placed the admitted order for banners 
with Krishan Studio . 


Petitioner has also criticised the production of the 
bill exhibit Rs, 5 and the estimate Exhibit Rs. 6 
procured during the trial of this election petition and 
argued that respondent No . 1 has created evidence and 
u presumption should be raised against him . Reliance 
is placed upon the judgmennt of the Supreme Court 
dated 1st April, 1970 in C . A . No. 1590 of 1969 in 
Re , Ch . Dal Singh y . Narain Singh and another but 
I see no support or the proposition from this judg 
ment. In that case , certain persons, knowing that 
another person was going to be a material witness 
in the clection petition , got an affidavit from that 
person and the Supreme Court was of the yiew that 
this act amounted to an attempt to tamper with the 
evidence of that witness by previously getting a 
writing from him and later an allidayit which had 
been provided by one of those persons. The explana 
tion given by respondent No. 1 for procuring Exhibit 
Rs. 5 and Exhibit Rs. 6 in his statement on 5th 
April, 1972 is that one of his workers over - heard a 
talk betwcen the petitioner and another person during 
the trial of this petition to the effect that in the vou 
cher produced by Prem Chand Grover it was not 
specifically mentioned that it included the cost of cloth 
and it was for this reason that he got an actual bill 
from this witness . Respondent No. 1 was faced with 
the problem that it was not mentioned in the admitted 
bill that cloth was included in the cost of painting and 
in order to prove that the rates given by Prem Chand 
Grover in the admitted bill included the cost of cloth , 
he sent two persons to obtain a bill and an estimate 
for painting banners including the price of cloth . I 
fail to see how this can amount to tampering with 
the evidence. 


for some time. My general observations about the 
approach to such question applies with particular force 
to the statement of this witness who is not supported 
by any documentary evidence much less unimpeach 
able documentary evidence . His statement in exami 
nation - in - chief about his having read two or three 
posters that he pasted is completely belief by his ad 
mission that he is illiterate and has bad eye - sight. It 
is argued that even on the admission of respondent 
No. 1, some posters had been got printed by him but 
no witness has been produced to prove as to who had 
pasted the admitted posters and no amount has been 
disclosed in the return of experiscs as having been in 
curred for pasting of poster which is unbelievable . The 
criticism seems to me to be unjustified . Dr. Roshan 
Lal ( RIW . 34 ) , election agent of respondent No. 1, has 
stated in his examination on 24th March , 1972 that 
the posters which had been given to him had been 
pasted in his Metropolitan Constituency by his workers. 
There is no cross - examination of this witness to ask 
as to whether any of these workers was paid . To 
the same effcct is the statement of Kula Nand Bharti 
( RIW . 4 ) dated 8th February , 1972. This is the wit 
ness who is running the Bharti Vidayala and he states 
that he does not know any Misri Lal (PW . 16 ) as a 
worker in his area . He further states that he had 
given one or two pogters to cach worker to paste in 
the locality . This witness also has been cross - examin 
ed as to whether any expense was incurred in getting 
these posters pasted . Respondent No. 1 in his state 
ment dated 1st March , 1972 has denied knowing Misri 
Lal ( PW . 16 ) or engaging him or paying him any 
money for pasting posters in the constituency . In 
the face of this evidence on behalf of respondent No. 1, 
no reliance can be placed merely upon the oral state 
ment of Misri Lal ( P . W . 16 ) so as to charge res 
pondent No. 1 as having incurred an additional ex 
pense of Rs. 150 . 


The petitioner, has, therefore, failed to prove that 
respondent No. 1 incurred the expense of Rs. 609. 50 
for painting of banners other than the admitted banners 
and Rs * 277. 50 for cloth for the banners . 


Then an amount of Rs. 150 is claimed as an amount 
of additional expense on the allegation that this amount 
was paid by respondent No. 1 to Misri Lal ( P . W . 16 ) 
for pasting posters in the locality . This witness states 
that he pasted some posters for respondent No . 1 and 
the Congresg at the instance of one Bachu Singh who 
has not been produced . He states that he pasted 10 
or 12 thousand posters for respondent No . 1 and the 
Congress party from Shakti Nagar to Shora Kothi 
and upto Baraf Khana. He described the posters. 
He says that some posters contained the photograph 
of Smt. Indira Gandhi and respondent No. 1 ; one pos 
ter was about the petitioner which stated that Lala Ji 
had got out of his New Delhi house and his Darshan 
may be had otherwise he will not be seen for the next 
five or six years and another poster was about Dal 
and it stated that the petitioner had given adulterated 
Dal to the Military. Having stated this his memory 
failed because he could not remember about the other 
posters alleged to have been pasted by him . He states 
that he used to be taken to Bharti Vidayala near 
Shakti Nagar where posters were given to him by 
Kula Nand Bharti ( RIW . 4 ) and that he pasted posters 
at night at the rate of Rs. 5 per hundred posters. His 
charges are alleged to have been paid by the aforesaid 
Bachu Singh . In cross -examination he admitted that 
he had not mentioned about the pasting of posters to 
the petitioner to anybody else ; that he did not keer 
any account and that he did not give any receipt for 

iment made to him . He algo admitted that he past 
ed posters for Congress ( O ) but he could not give the 
subject matter of these posters. He admits that he is 
illiterate and can only sign and he stated that if he is 
shown any poster in Court, he would not be able to 
road if because of bad eye - sight which had been had 


The next item is for Rs. 600 which is alleged to 
have been incurred or authorised by respondent No . 1 
for erigaging the scooter of Amar Nath ( P . W , 17 ) . 
This witness has stated that he is the owner of scoo 
ter No. DLR 9653 which had been hired by respon 
dent No . 1 at Rs. 25 per day from 10th February , 
1971 to 5th March , 1971. In addition respondent No. 
1 is alleged to have borne the petrol expenses and 
paid for the food of this witness through Lila Ram 
who was alleged to be another worker of respondent No. 
1 . He has made a general statement about the use 
to which his scooter was put. In cross - examination 
he admits that he does not maintain any account and 
that the hire paid to him was not entered anywhere 
nor did he give any receipt for the payment made 
to him . He also admitted in cross - examination that 
he did not tell anybody about the hiring of a scooter 
or of payment to him . My general remarkg about 
such evidence would apply with full force to the 
testimony of this witness further the person Lila 
Ram named by this witness was cited as a witness 
by the petitioner but was not produced . In his state 
ment dated 3rd February , 1972 , the petitioned has 
stated that Lila Ram was or e of the person who 
were serving liquor at Nabi Karim during the elec 

inn on behalf of respondent No. 1 but he admitted 
that this Lila Ram was the same person who harl 
fought election against the Congress and Jana Sangh 
during Municipal Corporation elections. I find it dif 
cult to believe that a person who fought an election 
against the Congress would be a worker of respon 
dent No. 1 and the voluntecred statement of the peti 
tioner that Lila Ram was the right-hand man of res 
pondent No. 1 during Parliamentary elections cannot 
be relied upon In his statement dated 3rd April, 
1972 , respondent No. 1 has denied having engaged 
the scooter of this witness or having made anv pav 
ment to him There being no corroborative evidencr 
about the alleged vayment of Rs. 600 to Amar Nath 
( PW . 17 ) and the said LiTa Ram not having been pro 
duced , my conclusion is that the petitioner has failed 
to prove this item of Rs. 600 As an additional ex 
ponse incurred or authorised by respondent No. 1. 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4562 


The next item is a small item of Rs. 54 which is 
sought to be proved by copy of the bill No. 785 ( Exhi 
bit PW , 2 / 1) dated 18th February, 1971 of Sood Litho 
Press for printing posters and handbills . This bill 
was produced by Tauteeq Farooqi ( PW , 2 ) , Manager 
of the Sood Litho Press , and is for printing posters 
and handbills . It is made out in the name of Amar 
Nath Chawla ( respondent No . 1 ) , through J. P . Goel 
( respondent No . 5 ). The bill states that it is for 
printing charges only and this witness has stated that 
he does not know how much paper was utilized for 
printing the posters and handbills in this bill. He 
was examined by the petitioner also to prove that the 
pamphlet annexure A and the poster annexure B 
were printed at the Sood Litho Press. When ques 
tioned , he denied , that theso had been printed at the 
Sood Litho Press. At the request of counsel for the 
petitioner, I made an order under section 154 of the 
Indian Evidence Act and permitted the petitioner to 
cross - examine him . His evidence with regard to the 
printing of annexure A and B will be examined in 
some more detail when I discuss the relevant logue , 
Suffice it to that the witness is unreliable because , to 
use a common phrase , he turned hostile to the peti 
tioner who produced him . In cross -examination , he 
admits that he is a member of the Jana Sangh which 
again is a statement which is ditlicult to believe. He 
further admits that for printing hanbills and posters 
mentioned in the bill (Exhibit PW . 2 / 1), no doalara 
tion was obtained from anybody the obvious reference 
being to section 127 - A of the Act. He further admita 
that he could not say who had made payment of the 
bill ( Exhibit PW . 2 / 1 ) . Respondent No . 1 has denied 
in his statement dated 31st March , 1972 that he had 
got any of the things mentioned in the bill ( Exhibit 
PW . 2 / 1 ) printed from the Sood Litho Press . Ac 
cording to the witness , the accounts of Sood Litho 
Press are maintained by Avtar Krishan Aggarwal, 
husband of the proprietor Smt. Krishna Devi. Avtar 
Krishan Aggarwal has not been produced by the peti 
tioner and the excuse for his non - production has al 
ready been rejected by me while discussing the evi 
dence relating to the pamphlets Exhibit PW . 11 / 1 to 
Exhibit PW . 11 / 8 , The mere oral statement of this 
witness even accompanied by a copy of an alleged 
bill which is disputed cannot be said to be oral evi 
dence which is accompanied by unimpeachable docu 
mentary evidence and in view of the denial of rer 
pondent No . 1, the only conclusion possible is that the 
petitioner has failed to prove that respondent No . 1 
had incurred or authorised the expense of Rs, 54 
represented by the bill Exhibit PW . 2 / 1 . 


Chatter Sain ( P . W . 55 ), 2 1 / 2 reams of papers are re 
quired for printing 5000 handbills such as are mention 
ed in this bill and the cost of that will be Rs. 75 at 
the rate of Rs. 30 per ream , Taufeeq Farooqi ( PW . 2 ) 
has stated that in February March , 1971, Sood Litho 
Press were charging at the rate of Rs. 8 per thousand 
if the composed matter on yellow paper of the size 
of 20 " X 30 " or 18 " X 22 were given to them and 
for printing posters they were charging Rs. 7 to Rs. # 
per thousand if the size of the poster was 18 " X 22 
or 20 " X 30 . He proved the receipt ( Exhibit R . 1 ) 
for Rs . 100 which was given in respect of this bill 
under the signatures of Avtar Krishan Aggarwal. 
After making this statement and a further statement 
with regard to bill No. 785 (Exhibit PW . 2 / 1 ) , the 
petitioner , as stated earlier was allowed to cross - exa 
mination this witness under section 154 of the Indian 
Evidence Act and , apart from the fact that his testi 
mony cannot be relied upon , he has not made it clear 
in his evidence as to whether paper for this bill was 
supplied by respondent No, l. The contention on behalf 
of respondent No. 1 is that it is proved on the record 
that the printing charges for handbills like those men 
tioned in the admitted bull (Exhibit R . 19 ) would be 
between Rs. 6 to Rs. 8 per thousand , therefore, the 
difference between Rs. 20 per thousand , as charged 
in this bill, and Rs. 0 to Rs. 8 per thousand, would 
cover the cost of paper required and that is why after 
writing within brackets as mentioned above, this 
writing was # truck off . It is further contended that 
the words " complete ptg . etc ,” would include the cost 
of paper also . Apart from the statement of Taufeeq 
Farooqi (PW . 2 ) mentioned above about the rates of 
charges for printing of handbills and posters, reliance 
is placed upon the testimony of Gopal Krishan Arora 
( PW . 23 ) who has stated that the charges of type 
printing or litho printing were between Rs. 8 and 
Rs, 12 per matter per thousand and that the rate did 
not vary with the size of the paper or the quantum 
of the gubject matter . Further corroboration is deriv 
ed by respondent No. 1 from the bill dated 15th Febru 
ary, 1971 ( Exhibit R 18 ) filed by respondent No. 1 
with his return of expenses which was issued by Kapur 
Printing Press for printing of 5 , 000 handbills of the 
speech of Mrs . Indira Gandhi. The bill is for Rs. 130 
and it states that this bill is for the cost of composing, 
printing and paper . It is no doubt true that the 
utriking off of the line " for printing charges only " 
in the bill Exhibit PW , 2 / 1 makes the matter guepi 
cious but in view of the fact that Taufeeq Farooqi 
(PW . 2 ) has not spoken clearly as to whether the bill 
was for the cost of paper also and further in view of 
the fact that rates of printing are between Rs. 6 / - and 
Rs. 8 / - per thousand , the argument of respondent No. 1 
that the bill exhibit R . 19 was not only for the cost of 
printing but also for the cost of paper appears to me 
to be more probable . In the absence of any conclu 
sive evidence on behalf of the petitioner that the rate 
of Rs. 20 per thousand could not include the cost of 
paper , I cannot hold that the cost of paper for the 
handbills in exhibit R . 19 has to be taken into consi. 
deration . Nor can I hold on the evidence on record 
that even if the cost of paper is to be added, it was 
incurred or authorised by respondent. No. 1 . 

Then I come to two telephone bills one is exhibit 
PW . 24 / 4 for temporary telephone No. 567954 at the 
Sadar Thana election office of respondent No . 1 for 
Rs. 365 . 80 and the other is bui Exibit PW 24 / 5 for the 
permanent telephone number 262433 for Rs. 327 . 60 at 
the residence of respondent No, 1. 

With regard to the bill Exhibit PW . 24 / 4 , L , D , Kalra 
( PW . 24 ) , Telephone Revenue Ingcpector, has stated 
that a temporary connection No. 567954 was giveri and 
a sum of Rs. 375 / - has been shown by respondent No . 
1 in his return of election expenses and since the am 
ount of this advance is larger than the amount of the 
bill ( Rs. 365 . 80 ) the petitioner has not made out any 
case with regard to the addition of Rs. 365 , 80 in conne 

ction with temporary telephone No. 567954 at the Sadar 
Thana election office . 


Then there is a connected item of Rs. 300 being the 
cost of paper utilized for the printing of posters and 
handbills mentioned in the above bill of Sood Litho 
Press bearing number No. 785 ( Exhibit P . W . 2 / 1) . It 
is argued that the total posters mentioned in this bill 
are 3 , 700 in number and , according to the statement 
of Chatter Sain (PW . 55 ) on 21st January , 1972 , 6 
reams of paper costing Rs. 50 per ream would have 
been utilized . Since I have held that the posters etc . 
mentioned in the bill Exhibit PW . 2 / 1 were not gut 
printed by respondent No . 1 , this claim must fall with 
it. 


Then another small claim of Rs. 75 la urged by the 
petitioner for the paper that must have been used 
for printing 5 ,000 handbills of Mrs . Indira Gandhi s 
appeal which were admittedly got printed by respon 
dent No. 1 at Sood Litho Press vide their blīl Exhibit 
R . 19 dated 27th February , 1971 Aled by respondent 
No. 1 with his return of expenses . This bill bearing 
number 798 states that it is for printing " 5000 / hand 
bills - appeal of Smt. Indira Gandhi. Complete ptg . 
etc ." at the rate of Rs. 20 per thousand and it is for 
Rs, 100 . Below the above writing , exist within brac 
kets the words " ( printing charges only ) " and this 
writing has been struck out in an ink which does ap 
pear to differ from the ink used for the other writing . 

on this blll. According to the calculation given by 


4508 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ Part II — 


The bill Exhibit PW . 24 / 6 is in connection with the 
permanent telephone at the residence of respondent No. 
1 for the period 1st January , 1971 to 31st March , 1971 
for local calls. The conter.tion of the petitioner is that 
this telephone at the residence of respondent No . 1 
must have been used for election purposes and a pro 
portionate amount for February and March , 1971, 
should have becii disclosed by respondent No . 1 with 
his return oľ election expenses. Respondent No . 1 has 
denied that the permanent telephone at his residence 
was used for clection purposes . In any case, it is 
impossible to determine the number of calls that 
may have been made from this telephone during the 
election period for clcction purposes from out of the 
total calls charged for the period 1st January 1971 to 
31st March , 1971, 1, therefore, cannot accept the 
petitioner s contention that the amount of these two 
bills must be added to the amounts shown in the 
return of expenses. 


The next item is of Rs. 30 and the case of the 
petitioner is that this amount was incurred or autho 
rised by respondent No . 1 for announcements of 
meetings by beat of drum . Support is sought to te 
derived from the stutement of Vijendra Jain ( R1W6 ) 
who in his statement on 9th February , 1972 , has 
spoken about announcement of three meetings of rey 
pondent No. 1 . This witness states that the announce 
mcnt was inade through a drumbeater, Sham Lal, at 
the rate of Rs. 10 per announcement and he used to 
pay him this amounts . There is no cross-examination 
by the petitioner to ascertain whether this amount 
was paid by Vijendra Jain ( RIW6 ) from his own 
pocket or he had been authorised to pay it by respon 
dent No . 1 . On the other hand , respondent No . 1 in 
his statement dated 3rd April, 1972 , has categorically 
alfirmed that apart from the expense shown in the 
statement of accounts and the vouchers he did not 
incur jon , authorize any other expenditure. Even 
though , theretore, by the payınent of Rs. 30 for druni 
beating is proved through the testimony of Vijendra 
Jain ( RIW . 6 ) because he is a witness produced by 
respondent No. 1 , no finding can be given that this 
payment by this witness was incurred or authorized 
by respondent No, 1 and , therefore , this item also 
cannot be added as an additional item of expenses . 

The next item is again a very small item of Rs. 5 
for stationery and for this item reliance is placed 
upon the testimony of Kula Nand Bharti (RIW . 4 ) 
on 8th February , 1972, when he stated that the cost 
of the total stationery used in his office was Rs. 4 
or Rs, 5 during the election period . The reasons for 
disallowing the immediately preceeding item of Rs. 30 
apply also to this item which cannot be added an 
additional item of expense . 


coming to give evidence and the place was blank , 
He also denied the suggestion that there was diffe 
rence in the shade of the ink in which the name of 
respondent No . 1 was written and the shade of the 
ink in which the other part of the cash memo. was 
written . It is clear that the entry relating to the 
cash memo ( Exhibit PW , 25 / 1 ) is not connected with 
any specific entry in the cash book . Therefore , as 
and by way of documentary evidence , only the cash 
memo is left for consideration and that by itself 
cannot be said to be such unimpeachable documen 
tary evidence which would be corroborative of the 
oral statement pf this witness . In support of the 
statement of this witness, the petitioner relies also on 
the statement of Satya Pal Chugh ( PW . 34 ) on 3th 
January , 1972, when he stated that on polling booths 
of respondent No, 1 he found , amongst other things, 
big placards and during the election period he saw 
placards on various shops which according to him 
number about 500 . The case of the petitioner is tnat 
this evidence corroborates the testimony of Gulshan 
Rai (PW . 25 ) about the purchase of cardboard and it 
is also contended that a suitable amount should be 
added for the making of these placards. In his state 
ment on 25th January, 1972 , the petitioner has also 
stated that there were placards pasted on carboards 
which were displayed outside the shops throughout 
the constituency and he estimates their number at 5000 
or 6000 and the cost thereof at Rs, 1,500 or Rs. 2 ,000 . , 
The petitioner also talks of hoardings at a cost of 
Rs. 150 and Rs. 200 to Rs. 300 and Rs. 400 each . In 
cross -examination , the petitioner admitted on 2r, d 
February , 1972, that he did not know whether a licence 
from the Corporation was required for erecting the 
hoardings. On being asked as to who had prepared 
the boardings, he stated that it was a person whose 
name was Gulzari Lal who was alive and still In 
Delhi. Gulzari Lal has not been produced . In my 
opinion , the documentary evidence furnished by the 
bill Exhibit PW . 25 / 1 is not of an unimpeachable 
character and , therefore, the amount of Rs. 577. 50 
cannot be gald to have been proved by the petitioner 
as having been incurred or authorised by respondent 
No . 1 . As to the placards, Gulzari Lal has not been 
produced and the entire story of the placards and 
hoardings is based only upon the oral testimony of 
Satya Pal Chugh (PW . 24 ) and the petitioner which 
18 not enough to charge respondent No . 1 with liability . 
I, therefore, reject these claims of the petitioner . 


Then I come to the item of Rs. 577.50 for alleged 
purchase of card - boards. This is deposed to by 
Gulshani Rai ( PW . 25 ) , who states that he carries 
on business in paper, board and aluminum foils . He 
states that respondent No. 1 came to his shop once 
and on 13th February , 1971, card -board was sold to reg 
pondent No. 1 under cash memo. No . 6268 in iespect 
of 20 bumilles for Rs. 577 . 50 . He has produced a 
copy of the cash Memo, (Exhibit P . W . 25 / 1 ) . He 
brought his cash book also but no specific amount of 
Rs. 577 . 50 is entered on the relevant date in the cash 
book because, according to the explanation given by 
this witness , the total of all the cash sales on a parti 
cular day is alone mentioned in the cash book . The 
cash memo. (Exhibit PW , 25 / 1 ) contains the name 
of respondient No. I but there are several cash rnemos, 
in this book which do not contain the name of the 
purchaser . This witness also gives the usual explana 
tion in cross - examination given by other witnesses 
of similar transactions that in the case of cash sales , 
names are entered only at the request of the custo 
mers except in the case where cash sales are made to 
registered dealers. Out of 175 cash memos. in the 
cash memo , book only 8 bear names of the purcha 
bers and only two suchi names are in the hand of this 
witness . His son who made the relevant cash inemo. 
has not been produced . He denied the suggestion 


Then there are two items of alleged additional ex 
pense which may be dealt with together . One for 
Rs. 2 , 75 and the other for Rs. 450 are alleged to have 
been paid by respondent No. 1 for hiring the scooters 
of Krishan Lal ( PW . 29 ) and Prem Nath ( P .W31) . 
Krishan Lal ( PW . 29 ) has stated that his scooter 
was hired by respondent No. 1 from 23rd February , 
1971, till 5th March , 1971, at Rs, 25 per day plus petrol 
and food . He alleges that it was his duty to distri 
bute cloth banners ; posters and mottos amongst 
Congress workers which he used to bring from the 
election office of respondent No . 1 in Sadar Thana 
Road and on the day of polling he carried voters to 
the election office near the polling booths , He 
further alleges that Bhag Mal Tandan ( R1W . 14 ) was 
in charge of his scooter from which he used to nake 
announcements for meetings by a loudspeaker . In 
cross -examination he is not able to remember either the 
names of the other persons who used to ride his 
scooter during the election days or even the name of 
the petrol supplier. He was not able to give the 
dates on which posterg or banners of pamphlets were 
distributed from his scooter . He is again one of 
those witnesses who in his anxiety to show that he 
was not concerned with the petitioner stated that he 
had not told anybody about what he had deposed in 
Court. No documentary evidence has been produced 
to prove any payment by respondent No . 1 for the 
hiring of the Scooter . Similar is the statement of 
Prem Nath ( P . W . 31) Corroboration for the state 
ments of these two witnesses is sought to be derived 
from the statements of Inder Mohan Bhardwaj 
( PW . 30 ) ; respondent No . 3 ( PW . 32 ) ; M , L . Khurana 
PW 10 ). Dharam Vir (PW . 36 ) and the petitinner 


Sec . 3 ( ii ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 


4509 


made from scooters through loudspeakers . Accord 
ing to these witnesses of the petitioner , there were 
several meetings which were announced from scooters 
but Krishan Lal (PW . 29 ) whose scooter is alleged 
to have been hired talks only of announcement of 
one meeting . Prem Nath (PW 31) alleges that his 
scooter was in the use of Bhana Ram ( R1W . 11 ) . The 
case of respondent No, l Is that Prem Nath (PW31 ) 
and one Kashmere Lal belonged to the Jana Sangh 
and they were arrested under section 107 of the Code 
of Criminal Procedure and were let out on ball on 
bonds furnished by Jana Sangh Metropolitan Coun 
cillors . The witness Prem Nath (PW . 31 ) would have 
the Court to believe that he belongs to the Congress 
and that it was hecause he had talked against the 
Jana Sangh to Krishan Lal who belonged to the 
Jana Sangh that he was arrested. The fact that ball 
bonds were furnished by Jana Sangh Municipal 
Councillors is proved by H . A . Ath (RWI. 17) Sub 
Divisional Magistrate , Pahargany who brought the file 
of Criminal cage (State y . Kashmere Lal and Prem 
Nath under Section 107 / 151, Criminal Procedure Code 
which was pending in this Court. He stated that bail 
bonds were furnished in the case of Prem Nath 
( P . W . 31) by a person who described himself as Mono 
har Lal Kumar and the bail bond contained an 
endorsement at the back that the person who had 
furnished the bail bond was the Municipal Councillor 
from Ram Nagar constituency . The Ale was taken 
away by the witness but respondent No. 1 was given 
liberty to Alle certified copies of the ball bonds. These 
certified copies have been Aled . Objection is taken on 
behalf of the petitioner to these certified copies being 
exhibited but the objection is 11l- founded . These 
certified copies are part of an official record and are 
admissible under section 78 of the Indian Evidence 
Act, being public documents . I , therefore , direct that 
these two bail bonds be exhibited as R . 28 and R . 29 , 
Respondent No . 1 has in his statement dated 3rd April, 
1972 , denied having hired the scooter either of Krishan 
L .al ( PW . 29 ) or of Prem Nath ( PW . 31 ) . Bhag Mal 
Tandon ( RIW . 11 ) has also denied having ridden the 
scooter of Krishan Lal (PW . 29 ) . The testimony of 
the other witnesses of the petitioner referred to earlier 
is general and they do not connect the announcements 
from scooters to the scooters of Krishan Lal ( P . W . 29 ) 
and Prem Nath (PW . 31) and cannot , therefore , be 
corroborative of the incurring of the aforesaid two 
amounts . The aforesaid two amounts do not stand 
proved merely on the oral testimony of the witnesses 
referred to above because mere oral testimony with 
out unimpeachable documentary evidence is not suff 
cient to charge the returned candidate with liability . 

The next item is an item of Rs, 104 .71 for electric 
consumption at the Idgah meeting or Prime Minister s 
meeting held on 28th February, 1971 . This claim must 
fall with my finding, already given , that the Idgah 
meeting was not a meeting the expense for which was 
incurred or authorised by respondent No. 1. It may 
be added that K . K . Srivastava (PW . 47 ) who is in 
attorney of the Delhi Supply Undertaking has stateci 
that the application for temporary electric connection 
for the Idgah meeting was signed by one Swami Atam 
Borth of 12 Beadonpura , Karol Bagh and that the con 
sumption was Rs. 104 .71 . Swami Atam Bodh has not 
been produced nor has nay witness on behalf of the 
petitioner stated any connection between Swami Atam 
Both and respondent No. 1 . The claim in respect of 
this item must, therefore, fail. 

Then I come to the next item of claim with regard 
to the cost of material in 247 packets . Before I deal 
with the evidence in connection with these 247 packets 
and the material contained therein , I would like to 
state that the petitioner has left it to this Court to 
assess the value of the material on the basis of the 
aforementioned decision in ( 1958 ) 17 Election Law 
Reports . 

37. That decision can be resorted to only if it is 
proved that certain items of expense which were nl 
curred or authorised by the returned candidate have 


been proved and there is evidence on the record about 
their value. The story about these packets according 
to Subhash Arya ( RIW35 ) is that he had received 
certain material like dummy ballot papers; brass 
seals ; sealing wax ; pencils ; shects of paper and nags 
which he put into 247 packets - one packet being 
meant for one polling both in the entire constituency 
and that apart from Aags and dummy ballot papers , 
the other material had been supplied by the Delhi 
Predesh Congress Committee . He then states that 
these packets were sent to 8 persons whom he had 
nominated as in - charge of the 8 Metropolitan constitu 
encies in the entire Parliamentary constituency . Om 
Parkash Meken (RWI) ; Kehar Singh ( R1W . 3 ) ; Vljen 
dra Jain (R1W .6 ) ; Roshan Lal ( R1W - 34 ) and Shadi 
Lal Gulati (RIW . 32 ) have spoken nbout having re 
ceived such packets but the criticism about their 
evidence is that each of them talks of different articles 
being the contents of the envelopes. It is further 
stated that Kula Nand Bharti (RIW . 4 ) and Nand Lal 
( RIW 8 ) do not speak of receiving these packets . 
It is true that there are oinordiselepancies 
in the statements of the aforesaid witnesses , with 
regard to the contents of the packets but there is no 
contradiction of the statement of Subhash Arya ( RIW 
35 ) that barring the flags and the dummy ballot 
papers , all the other articles had been supplied by the 
Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee . Whatever be said 
about the evidence with regard to thesr packets 
the fact remains that there is no evlience to 
prove either that all the conlents of these packets 
were supplied hy respondent No. 1 or that he had 
incurred or authorised the cost thereof. Further the 
value of the contents of these packets , as stated earlier , 
has not been proved . The petitioner has lett the matter 
at large expecting this Court to assess the value of 
the contents of these packets without any cvidence . 
In these circumstances, it cannot he held that the ex 
pense with regard to the entire contents of the puckets 
was incurred or authorised by respondent No . 1 nor 
can a finding be given as to the cost thereof so as to 
charge respondent No. 1 nor com a finding be given 
as to the cost thereof so as to charge respondent No. 1 
with llability in respect of any specinc amount 

Similarly , this Court is expected to accept the claim 
of the petitioner that the cost of 1000 or 1500 banners 
as displayed by respondent No. 1 in the constituency 
should be charged to respondent No. 1 . The evidence 
is vague, indefinite and inconclusive in determining 
either the number of banners or thril cost . Respon 
dent No. 1 has admitted the palnting of 14 banners at 
a total cost of Rs. 112 ) - at the rate of Rs. 8 / - per 
banner and it is contended that the banners spoken of 
by the witnesses of the petitioner should be calculated 
at this rate ag It is established that there were hanners 
far in excess of the admitted 14 hanners. Madan Lal 
Khurana (PW . 10 ) has stated that respondent No . 1 
and 3 to 5 banners at each pollinz station but he can 
not give the cost of each hanner. He did not know 
where the banners had been painted nor can he give 
the exact words which were painted on th : baniers 
Similarly , Satya Pal Chugh (Pw . 34 ) has snukai ol 
200 banners in his constituency : G . L . Rit91 ( P . W . 35 ) 
has spoken of 150 hanners in his constityynyt - Mooj 
Chand (PW . 180 ) has spolemn of 100 tonnnisi:, his loci . 
lity ; Govind Ram Verma ( PW , 19 ) has apolren of inn 
or 150 banners in his area and Inder Mohan Bharılwai 
(PW . 30 ) has spoken of 300 hanners in his constitu 
ency . 

All these witnesses are in the nature of omnibus 
witnesses and are directly and innlrently connerted 
with the Jana Sangh party to which the petitforer he 
longs. In my view , it is necessary for the purnose of 
establishing the particular corrupt practice regarding 
expenses which I am discussing for a natitinnor to 
prove that the expenses were irrurter nr authorized 
by the returned candidate . It is for him in the face 
of denial by the returned candidate , to prove conclui 
sively the source and the cost of the saditional items 
of expenge . Elections are not merely inatters concom 
ing the immediate parties to the election petition . They 


4510 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II — 


/ 


estimates about the number and the cost which cannot 
be relied upon . It is an impossible task which the 
petitioner wants the Court to perform and to perform 
it without any evidence worth the name. Surely If 
the extent of the posters was as is described by the 
petitioner and his witnesses it should not have been 
difficult for him to produce evidence of the printing 
presses who might have printed these posters and who 
would have with them declarations as required under 
gection 127- A of the Act. The petitioner must fail in 
his allegations that respondent No. 1 spent thousands 
or lace of rupees on posters etc . 


concern a large number of persons who even without 
having any personal or Intimate relation with the can 
didate work during the elections in accordance with 
their political ideologies . Many of such person work 
voluntarily and even make propaganda at their own 
expange without reference to any of the candidates . 
Therefore , unless a petitioner proves conclusively the 
connection of the returned candidate with an alleged 
Item of additional expense , liability for it cannot be 
fastened on the returned candidate merely from tho 
number or quantity of the item which was seen in the 
locality . In this case there is no evidence that respon 
dent No . 1 spent anything on banners other than tho 
14 admitted banners . It 1g argued that in a large 
constituency like the Sadar Parliamentary constituency 
It is inconceivable that banners and for the matter of 
that posters and handbills , were used only in quantities 
admitted by respondent No. 1 . I regret my inability to 
accept this argument which postulates speculation on 
the part of the Court which the Court cannot in 
dulge in a matter which is essentially a matter of 
rupees and paise . I am , therefore , unable elther to 
hold that respondent No. 1 had incurred or authorised 
the expense on banners other than the 14 admitted 
banners or to give a definite finding on their value on 
the evidence on this record . I cannot exclude the 
possibility that even if there were banners in addition 
to the 14 admitted banners, their cost had been incurred 
by other porsong and not incurred by other persons 
and not incurred or authorized by respondent No. 1. 


Then a claim is made that I must assess the cost of 
annouricements through loudspeakers and scooters of 
meetings of respondent No. 1 Such announcements 
have been spoken of by Mądan Lal Khurana ( P . W . 
10 ) Krishan Lal ( P . W . 29 ) Inder Mohan Bhardwij 
( PW . 30 ) ; Prem Nath (PW . 31 ) ! Chunni Lal (PW . 
32 ) ; Dharam Vir (PW , 88 ) and the petitioner himgell . 
Again the evidence 18 vague; indefinite ; inconclusive 
and , in my opinion exaggerated . Apart from the 
admitted amount of Rs. 457 - as per the vouchers at 
page 32 in the Ale Exhibit PW . 8 / 1 . I cannot hold 
that respondent No . 1 has incurred or authorized the 
expense on announcement of meetings on loudspeakers 
and scooters and the petitioner rust fial under this 
head algo . 


Then it is claimed that respondent No 1 spent huge 
Amounts on maintaining numerous election offices . 
According to the petitioner s statement, recorded on 
5th January , 1972 , the head election office of respon 
dent No. 1 wag at Sadar Thana Road which is admitted 
by respondent No . 1 , and he hnd election offices for 
each of the 10 Municipal Wards and at each of the 
247 polling booths. The case of respondent No. 1 
Is that he did not have any elect!on offices except the 
one at Şadar Thana Road . Kula Nand Bharti (Riw . 4 ) 
states that the workers used to work in their houses. 
This claim of the petitioner has al. to be rejected as 
being vague , indiAnite and inconclusive apart from 
saying that the expenses alleged to have been incurred 
or authorized by espondent No. 1 at the alleged 
election offices have not been proved at all. 


The next head of expenses lg for handbills ; posters 
and the cost of pasting the posters. This claim also 
suffers the same defect as is the case with the imme 
diately preceding claim . Main reliance is placed 
upon the testimony of the petitioner himself . Accord 
ing to the petitioner where were 1000 or 1500 posters 
for each meeting; 8 to 10 thousand posters like annc 
xure B 40 to 50 thousand pamphlets like annexure 
A : 30 to 35 thousand handbills Uke handbills A . 2 to 
A8 and A . 13 ; 40 to 50 thousand Ire sketches, of the 
petitioner ; 3 or 4 thousand posters like A , 57 and a 
Ukę number of posters like A . 65 ; 1000 or 1500 of each 
of the posters which were Aled by the All India Con 
gress Committee in this Court ; 25 or 30 thousand of 
each of the pamphlets and booklets produced by Raj 
Kumar Singh ( PW . 20 ) 60 different types of posters 
and 35 different types of handbills ; 10 thousand addi 
tional posters and 50 to 60 thousand handbils about 
2 or 3 thousand posters and handbills about burning 
of children ; 1000 or 1500 posters for each of the meet 
ings ; of respondent No . 1 ; handbills for meetings 
5 . lace identity slips and lacs of dumy ballot 
papers . A mere reading of the statement of the peti 
tioner would convince any one that the claim is tan 
tastic : unreal and even false . Many of the alleged 
posters ; handbills ; pamphlets ; booklets and other print 
ed material have not even been Aled by the petitioner 
in Court . Nor has it been proved by any other 
evidence of the petitioner about the extent, much less 
the number and the variety of these posters etc . A 
part from the statement of his own witnesses like 
Inder Mohan Bhardwat (PW . 302; Chunni Lal (PW . 32 ) ; 
Satys Pal Chugh ( PW . 34 ) . G L . Rawal (PW . 35 ) 
and Som Dev Arva ( PW . 52 ) reliance is nlaced on the 
testimony of A . K Sen ( PW . 38 ) who ig a reporter o . 
the Hindustan Times and toured the constituency dur 
ing the elertion period and wrote an article about it 
( Exhibit P . W . 36 / 11 which was published in the 
Hindustan Times . According to this witness he saw 
posters and streamers all over the palce but he does 
not say which of these posters and streamers were of 
the Congress and which of the Jan Sangh and which 
of the other parties contesting the elertion . The al 
legations and evidence with regard to the poster , etc . 
apart from being yague appear to me to be fantastic 
Here again , the real question is As to the amount in 
curred or authorized by respondent No. 1 on these 
posters . There is no evidence produced by the peti 
toner on thls aspect of the mater apart from giving 


Then it is stated that on the day of polling respon 
dent No. 1 had incurred expenses on stationery ; food ; 
furniture and cartage respondent No 1 has denied 
having made any arrangement at the polling booths on 
the day of polling. Om Parkash Maken ( RIW . 1 ) states 
that on this day , his workers brought small furniture 
from their own houses . There is complete absence of 
evidence on behalf of the pet. tloner as to the actual 
incurring or authorizing of the expenditure by respon 
dent No. 1 on the day of polling although various wit 
nesses of the petitioner like Madan Lal Khurana 
(PW . 10 ) ; Govind Ram Verru ( PW , 19 ) ; Om Parkash 
Sachdeva ( PW , 21) : G . K . Arora ( PW , 23 ) ; I. M . 
Bhardwaj (PW . 30 ) ; Chunni Lal (PW . 32 ) ; G . L . Rawal 
(PW . 35 ) and the petitioner himselt have talked about 
what they saw at the polling booths as to furniture; 
food : stationery and cartage which differs from witness 
to witness . There is no evidence to prove the extent 
of the expenses assuming that these things were avail 
able at the polling booths Nor is there any 
connection between the expenses of these things on the 
polling booths and respondent No 1 in so far as In 
curring of authorizing is concerned . It fe argued that 
respondent No. 1 has himself admitted that he spent 
Rs. ON / - for fond on the counting agents on the davot 
countin , and , therefore he must have suprlied food to 
his workers at the pollino bonths also Even if fond 
was supplied to the workers , no inference can ho 
drawn that it was surplied þv respondent No . 1 . All 
that the witnesses of the netitionne have enoken phout 
la that they saw the workere being supllied with food , 
Tt is possible that the workers had brought their own 
tond and hecause there in this possibility It cannot he 
held that the expense on anything on the gry of polling 
was incurred or authorized by respondent No . 1. Much 


Sec . 3 (11) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4511 


- 


- 


- - 


less can any estimate be made of the cost of the things 
supplied on the day of polling in the complete absence 
of any evidence in the record . 

In the same line is the claim with regard to the ex 
penses alleged to have been incurred by respondent 
No . 1 on corner mcetings . Reliance is placed upon the 
statement of respondent No, 1 on 3rd April, 1072 that 
for his election propaganda he hold corner meetings ; 
had rounds of the constituency ; met people in the 
constituency individually and addressed public meet 
ings . In his statement on 4th April, 1972 respondent 
No. 1 admitted that he had no record of the corner 
normally corner meetings were held in houses but it 
5 or 6 a day. Respondent No. 1 further stated that 
normally cornor meetings were held in houses but it 
depended on the local workers as to how many people 
they called and that the attendance at these corner 
meetings used to be from 5 to 7 persons to about 100 
persons and further that these corner meetngs in 
Katras were held in open spaces . It is contended that 
it is not believable that no arrangement for furniture 
etc . was made for these corner meetings and in the 
absence of any defence that arrangements for those 
corner meetings had been made by other persons, it 
must be inferred that the furniture etc . required in 
these corner meetings wag at the cost of respondent 
No . 1. It is only Inder Mohan Bhardwaj (PW . 30 ) . 
who is one of the omnibus witnesses, who has stated in 
his examination in chief that he had seen 5 or 6 
corner meetings in his Metropolitan constituency and 
in these meetings there were 2 or 3 Takhats , durries 
and lights . The petitioner has not produced any 
evidence to prove as to who had supplied this fuịniture 
at the corner meetings. It was not put by the petitioner 
in cross -examination of either respondent No. 1 or the 
other witnesses of the respondent as to whether there 
was any furniture etc . at the corner meetings , and if 
So , who had supplied and paid for it . Merely from the 
circumstances that there may have been some furni 
ture on these corner meetings as deposed by their 
Mohan Bhardwal (PW . 30 ) it cannot be inferred that 
the expenses thereof were incurred or authorised by 
respondent No. 1. Apart from that, no specific 
amount is claimed by the petitioner as having been 
incurred by respondent No. 1 at the corner meetings 
and the petitioner has merely left the matter to specu 
lation by the Court as to the extent and cost of such 
alleged furniture or as to who had incurred it. In 
this situation , no caso is made out by the petitioner to 
add any amount whatsoever as having been incurred 
by respondent No . 1 to the admitted items of expense . 

Again the amount alleged to have been spent by 
respondent No. 1 on flags; stencils and badges is left to - 
speculation by the Court . As to stencils , Gopal Krishan 
Arora ( PW , 23) has stated on 3rd January , 1972 that 
he found stencils pasted in the entire constituency apart 
from fars, banners, motors and buntings . According 
to him the stencils were on the walls at a distance of 
4 or 5 feet in every street in the constituency and there 
were 2 or 3 different types of subject matters of the 
stencils, the common feature of which was the symbol 
and the name of respondent No. 1 . This oral statement 
is not supported by any documentary evidence . If in 
fact there were any stencils , it would have been casy 
for the petitioner to produce at least photographs there 
of at the hearing of this petition because stencils are 
somewhat durable and remain on the walls for a con 
siderable time. This witness who has political alinity 
with the petitioner has not given either the numher of 
such stencils or the amount that might have been in 
curred upon them and by whom . The petitioner in 
his statement on 25th January 1972 has again made a 
fantastic claim when he states that slogans were put on 
the walls hy stencils by respondent No . 1 in Hindi, 
English and Urdu throughout the constituenav . and 
According to him , the number of such stencils must 
have been in terms of 19cs and the cost thereof between 
Rs. 4 000 / - or Rs , 5 . 000 / -. There is no documentary 
evidence at all to support this estimate of the petition 
er had in the face of the denial of respondent No. 1 in 
his statement on 4th April, 1972 that he did not get 


any stencils painted on the walls in the constituency 
during the election at his expense , the aforesaid state 
ments of the petitioner and Gopal Krishan Arora 
(PW . 23 ) cannot be relied upon so as to charge respon 
dent No . 1 with any liability . As to badges , Govind 
Ram Verma (PW , 19 ) another omnibus witness , stated 
on 23rd December , 1971 in answer to a leading question 
by the counsel for the petitioner that lady workers and 
other workers had badges on their arms when they 
used to go on their rounds ; that some of the badges 
were of cloth and some were of plastic and that they 
contained the figure either of the tricolour or of call 
and cow . This witness has not given the number of 
such badges of the cost thereof, The petitioner in his 
statement on 25th January, 1972 has made another 
fantastic claim without any supporting evidence that 
respondent No. 1 had badges made of cloth and plastic 
in terms of lacs , the cloth badges being worn by the 
workers of respondent No . 1 and the plastic badges 
being distributed throughout the constituency . Res 
pondent No. 1 has admitted purchasing badges worth 
Rs. 50 / - and Rs. 110 / - vide vouchers at pages 23 and 
30 , respectively of the Ale Exhibit P . W . 5 / 1 . It is 
contended that these badges were for only two polling 
stations and in view of the testimony of the petitioner 
and Govind Ram Verma (PW . 19 ) it must be assumed 
that the petitioner must have distributed badges for all 
the 247 polling stations costing Rs. 15 / - per polling 
stations. If I were to accept thig argument, I would be 
speculating as to the number of badges and as to the 
cost incurred or authorised by respondent No . 1. The 
evidence of the petitioner under this head also ls 
merely oral and unaccompanied by unipeachable docu 
mentary evidence . The evidence is interested and for 
all these reasons it cannot be relied upon 80 as to 
fasten liability in respect of any amount on respondent 
No. 1 for alleged purchase of badges . As to flags, the 
same witness Gopal Krishan Arora (PW . 23 ) has stated 
that he found flags throughout the constituency . Accord 
ing to the petitioner in his statement on 25th January , 
1972 , there were cloth flags whose number must have 
been 10 thousand Of 12 thousand . According to him 
the flags were hig as well as small. The cost of each 
small flag including the pole comes to Rs. 1. 50 to Rs. 2 / 
and the cost of the bigger flags varies from Rs. 20 / 
to Rs. 50 each according to its size. He avers that 
the flags were in tricolour of the Congress and were 
fixed on the roofs of houses and shops and on electric 
poles throughout the constituency . Satya Pal Ghugh 
(PW . 34 ) has talked about seeing flags on 25 . or 30 
polling booths in Shakti Nagar , Rahatganj. Similarly 
Som Dev Arya ( PW . 52) in his statement on 18th 
January, 1972 is alleged to have seen flags on the 32 
polling booths in his Metropolitan Constituency. Madan 
Lal Khurana (PW . 10 ) in his statement on 21st Janu 
ary , 1971 has spoken of seeing Congress Aage on 
scooters and taxis before and during the polling . The 
statements of the petitioner and his other witness 
again conjectural as to numbers and unsupported 
by unimpeachable documentary evidence . 


Respondent No . 1 has admitted purchasing 400 flags 
for Rs. 440 vide bill dated 13th February 1971 which 
is at page 49 of the file Exhibit PW . 5 / 1, The state 
ments of Madan Lal Khurana ( PW . 10 ) : Satya Pal 
Chugh (PW . 34 ) and Som Dev Arya (PW .52 ) are non 
sistent with the admission of respondent No . 1 that he 
had purchased 400 flags. It is contended on behalf of 
he petitioner that according to Subhash Arya (R1W 
35 ) flags were sent to him only on March 4 , 1972 , 
which he forwarded to the polling stations and , there 
fore , if any flags were seen in the constituency before 
March . 4 , 1971 , they must be additional flags which 
were purchased by respondent No. 1 . This contention 
is not supported by any oral evidence much less by 
oral evidence supported by unimpeachable document 
ary evidence . Again the petitioner has left the Court 
to speculate as to the number of these items and their 
cost and it is impossible to accept the petitioner s con 
tention to add any amounts in respect of these items 
to the admitted items of expense. 


4512 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ Part II 


- 


- 


- 


- 


The next claim is on the basis that respondent No. 1 
had engaged paid workers which expense he has not 
disclosed in his return of expenses . Mool Chand 
( PW . 18 ) has stated that he saw 50 or 60 women 
working for 15 or 20 days before the election every 
day but he admits that he cannot say whether any 
one of them was paid . He is admittedly relation of 
the petitioner . Inder Mohan Bhardwaj (PW . 30 ) hag 
stated on 5th January 1972 that there were some lady 
Congress workers working for respondent No. 1 who 
were taking rounds in the constituency distributing 
pamphlets and fetching voters . He makes the state 
ment that some of the males and females working for 
respondent No. 1 were paid and that in his Metropoli 
tan constitucncy respondent No. I had engaged about 
300 paid workers at rates varying from Rs. 3 to Rs. 5 
per day . In cross - examination , he admits that he 


Apart from the fact that this Leela Ram has not been 
produced , respondent No. 1 has denied in his state 
ment dated 4th April , 1972 that Leela Ram was one 
of the persons who were his polling agents or counting 
agents or workers. This allegation of the petitioner 
and his statement and the statements of his witnesses 
with regard to the service of liquor appears to me 
to be entirely ungupported by any reliable evidence , 
I have no hesitation in rejecting the petitioner s case 
for addition of any amount towards the service of 
liquor to the admitted expenses . 


in his presence. G . L , Rawal ( PW . 35 ) in his state 
ment on 11th January 1972 has stated that he saw 
posters being pasted by a labourer under the instruc 
tions of two Congress workers but he does not say 
that he saw any payment being made to this labourer . 
There is, therefore , no evidence that any payment was 
made by respondent No. 1 to any person who was 
working for him . He has stated in his examination 
that he had thousands of workers but he has denied 
having made any payment to them . The evidence on 
behalf of the petitioner is again deficient in either 
proving the number of workers or the amount alleged 
to have been paid to them . None of such workers bar 
ring Misri Lal (PW . 16 ) , whose evidence I have al 
ready discussed and rejected , has been produced by 
the petitioner to prove any payment. In these cir 
cumstances and merely on the basis of oral evidence 
which is nothing but an allegation , no amount can be 
charged to respondent No. 1 as an additional item of 
expense , 


On the question of expenses apart from relying upon 
the aforesaid decision reported in 1958 , 17 Election Law 
Reports 37 , the petitioner has relied upon the decision 
of the Supreme Court reported in 68 Doablia s Elec 
tion Cases 337 in regard Dr. M . Chenna Reddy v . V . 
Ramachandra Rao and another and another decision 
of the Supreme Court reported in A . I. R . 1970 Supremo 
Court 1477 in te : D . P . Misra v . Kamal Narayan Sharma 
and another for the proposition that an Inference must 
he drawn against the returned candidate if evidence 
which is available is not produced by him . The 
principle is unexceptional but it applies with greater 
force to the petitioner upon whom the burden lies to 
prove that the returned candidate was guilty of the 
corrupt practice of excceding the expenses over the 
prescribed limit. As I have pointed out while dis 
cussing the various heads, the evidence produced by 
the petitioner is unsatifactory, Inadequate , indefinite , 
inconclusive and in some cases even false and unbe 
lievable. In such a case nothing survives for the 
returned candidate to disprove. The aforesaid deci 
sions of the Supreme Court were cases where the facts 
were within the special knowledge of the returned 
candidate and evidence with regard to the special 
knowledge was withheld from the court. The princi 
ples of these two decisions cannot be applied to the 
sort of evidence which has been adduced in this case 
by the petitioner . I, therefore, hold that the petitioner 
fails on Issue No. 10 . 


The last item of expenses alleged to have been in 
curred by respondent No. 1 is on liquor . The first 
witness is Mool Chand (PW . 18 ) who has admitted 
himself to be related to the petitioner . He has stated 


persons whom he saw working in the Congress elec 
tion office were also seen by him offering drinks to 
voters. Prem Nath (PW , 31 ) has made a voluntary 
statement on 6th January 1972 that in the evenings on 
2nd March 1971 and 3rd March 1971 he carried liquor 
to Prem Basti ; 52 Quarters and Ara Kashan Road . 
He is alleged to be the scooter driver who was engaged 
by respondent No . 1 and whose testimony I have 
already rejected as being false . The petitioner has 
also not lagged behind these two witnesses in making 
a statement about liquor. When his statement in 
examination - in - chief was continued after lunch on 
25th January 1972 he stated that one week before the 
day of polling respondent No. 1 had started extertain 
ing some people with liquor throughout the constítu 
ency and that a considerable amount of liquor wag 
served in the entire constituency during the night of 
polling . In his cross - examination on 3rd February, 
1972 he reasserted about the serving of liquor by 
respondent No. 1 and started that it was served in 


Issue Nos. 11, 12 and 13 are connected with Issue 
No. 10 . It is not necessray to get out the leadinga 
again in extenso because the Issues appcar to me to 
be sufficiently reflective of the pleadings. The case 
of the petitioner is that accounts were not maintained 
or verified in the manner prescribed by the rules and , 
therefore , respondent No. 1 is guilty of the corrupt 
practice contemplated by sub - clouse ( lv ) of clause 
( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 100 of the Art. Sub 
clause ( iv ) relates to non -compliance with the provi 
sions of the Constitution or of the Act, or of any rules 
and orders made under the Act. In case there in any 
non - compliance , a corrupt practice can be said to have 
been committed provided , as stated in clause ( d ) , the 
result of the election , in so far as it concerns a returned 
candidate , has been materially affected . There is not 
an iota of evidence that such a result has been achie 
ved by any non - compliance as alleged . I may state 
Mr. S . N . Marwaha. learned counsel for the petitioner, 
did not even press these Issues in his arguments . The 
answer to these issues will, therefore, be against the 
petitioner . 


ing that it was done in his presence. He has also 
aggerted that liquor was served in Sohan Ganj and 
Malka Gan ) when he was respondent and it was also 
served at Nabl Karim by Leela Ram ; Gulzari Lal and 
Bhag Mal Tandan ( RIW . 14 ), Bhag Mal Tandan (RIW . 
14 ) was not cross -examined about liquor when he came 
As a witness for respondent No. 1 later. Bhana Ram 
(RIW . 11 ) who is alleged to have taken liquor on the 
scooter of Prem Nath ( PW . 31) has denied either taking 
the scooter or liquor anywhere on the scooter at any 
time. Respondent No. 1 in his statement dated 4th April , 
1972, has denied serving any liquor. The aforesaid 
Leela Ram mentioned by the petitioner in his testi 
mony is mentioned as one of the persons in the parti 
culars furnished by the petitioner with reference to 
the allegations in paragraph 20 ( a ) of the petition . 


Then I take Issues Nos. 8 , 9 and 14 together because 
they are connected with each other . Isssuc No. 8 
refers to corrupt practices by respondent No. 1 , his 
election agent and other persons with their consent 
which are get out in paragraphs 20 and 21 of the peti 
tion , Issue No. 9 refers to repetition of the statements 
mode in the poster annexure B by respondent No. 1 
and respondent No . 5 at public meetings and orally 
during canvassine in the constituency as alleged in 
paragraph 24 of the petition . Evidence on these two 
Issues is , hy reasons of my order dated Auvust . 
1971 , confined to the particulars furnished by the 
petitioner . Issue No. 14 is as to whether, if these 
corrurit practices against respondent No. 5 have been 
proved any orders against him are requlred under 
sub - section ( 1 ) of section 99 of the Act . 


>LC . : ( 11 ) ] 


THE GAZETIE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ AsVINA 29 , 3894 


4513 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


I have earlier set out in detail the pleasure of the 


Lo the hanabill annexure A and the poster annexui t 

B in paragraphs 20 to 24 of the petition ; correspond 
ing paragraphs of the written statements of respon 
dents Nos . 1 and 5 ; replication of the petitioner and 
the particulars Iurnishea by the petitioner. I will state 
them again shortly . 


from the fact that the names of the other presses 
mentioned in the better particulars were by way of 
improvement of the case set up in the petition , inere 
is complete absence of evidence to show that these 
annexures were printed at any other press . In fact , 
eyen Babu Lam Sharma ( PW . 11 ) and Chatter Sain 
(PW . 55 ) who are connected with the Sarydeshik 
Press have not stated in their statements that these 
annexures were printed at their press . 

Annexure A is a pamphlet in Hindi and the print 
ing thereon is in red ink Translation of it Aled with 
the petition is not accepted as correct and I will, there 
fore, given my own translation . There are two head 
lines to this pamphlet in big type and the rest of the 
pamphlet is in smaller type. In English it would read 


thus: - - 


The petitioners allegation is that respondent No. 1 ; 
his election agent, Dr , Roshan Lal (RIW . 34 ) ; Jai 
Prakash Goel ( respondent No. 5 ) ; Sood Litho Press 
and Sham Lal were responsible for the printing and 
publication of the handbill annexure A and the poster 
annexure B through the aloresaid Sood Litho Press 
which were extensively distributed in the entire consti 
tituency and similar statements were made by respon 
dent No. 1 and respondent No, 5 public meetings in 
which both of them used to speak , Dr. Roshan Lal 
(RIW . 34 ) respondent No, 5 and Sham Lal were alleged 
to be the agents of respondent No. 1 acting with his 
consent. In the better particulars filed by thc peti 
tioner, an improvement was made in the case by stat 
ing that the handbill annexure A had been printed 
on 23rd February , 1971 and 24th February, 1971 through 
Sood Litho Press and also from Sarydeshik Prakashan 
Limited and other presses which were specified in the 
List of reliance filed by the petitioner . Respondent 
No. 1 denied the printing of the said handbill and 
poster by Sood Litho Press or by any other presses . 
He also denied that respondent No. 6 was his counting 
agent or active workers acting with his consent. 
Respondent No, 5 denied having had anything to do 
with said handbill and poster or its printing ; publica 
tion or distribution . Both respondent No. W and res 
pondent No. 5 denied making any speeches on the 
subject of the handbill and poster. Respondent No. 
1 , thcrcforc , pleased that the other questions of the 
statements made in the handbill and the poster being 
false and believed to be false or not belived to be true 
or being statements reasonably calculated to prejudice 
the petitioncr s election did not arise , Rcspondent 
No. 1 further denied knowing any Sham Lal . As a 
proposition of law it was submitted by respondent 
No . 1 that the statements in the said handbill and 
poster did not fail within the mischief of section 123 ( 4 ) 
of the Act as the aforcsaid statements were not in 
relation to the personal character or conduct of the 
petitioner but dealt with his conduct as a Member of 
Parliament which position hc allegedly misused . 

The corrupt practice comtemplated by section 123 ( 4 ) 
of the Act is : - 
" The publication by a candidate or his agent or 

by any other person , with the consent of a 
candidate or his election agent, of any state 
ment of fact which is falsc, and which he 
cither believes to be false or does not believe 
to be true, in relation to the personal character 


" Contract of pulse to self and yote asked from 

people ” . 
To day the people of Sadar Bazar have to think 
whether they have to re - elect or not kanwar Lal 
Gupta who got pulse contracts worth , lacs of rupees 
for his brothers and tried to supply adulterated ( Sari 
Gali ) pulse to our Army, Now every one should on 
this occasion give a reply to such an opportunist who 
has put this black mark on our face by defeating him 
so that the voters of Sadar Bazar constituency may 
say in the whole of India that the Kanwar Lal Gupta 
who tried to feed adulterated Gali - Sari pulse to our 
Army and about whom the screen was lifted in Parlia 
mcnt in 1970 , will not now in 1971 be sent to deposit 
will be got forfeited as it was forfeited in 1962 from 
the Sadar Bazar area : 
Sood Litho Press 

Pupils Council , 
Delhi- 6 . 

Sadar Bazar, Delhi. 
The poster annexure B is printed on yellow paper 
in red ink . The top - half of this poster is printed in 
Hindi and the same subject matter is repeated in Urdu 
in the lower half. The translation of this poster is : -- 
" Hero of pulse scandal Lala Kanwar Lal Gupta . 

He is coming today in your midst from the 
bath room of his Dupleix Road New Delhi 
bungalow . You should come out of your house 
to see him . Otherwise he again wants to go 
back to New Delhi soon , He is in a hurry . 
Please come to see him in the maximum 

possible numbers , 
Sham Lal, 

Secretary 
Pupils Council Phone No. 226492 . 

(Sood Litho Press ) 
Daryaganj Delhi- 8 . 

Pho, 274487” . 
No date of the printing of this handbill and poster 
is mentioned in the petition but during the course of 
arguments , the case set up was that both of them had 
been printed on 22nd February , 1971 . As stated ear 
lier , the petitioner served a notice dated 25th February , 
1971 ( Exhibit PW . 3 / 1 ) on respondent No. 1 ; respon 
dent No. 5 ; Sood Litho Press and Sham Lal through 
Lala Ram Gupta , Advocate (PW . 4 ) . A copy of this 
notice was also sent to the Chief Election Commis 
sioner , New Delhi, who received it on 27th January , 
1971 as proved by postal acknowledgement due receipt 
( Exhibit PW . 4 / 1 ) . It is the case of the petitioner 
and it is also stated by Lala Ram Gupta (PW . 4 ) that 
a copy of the handbill annexure A was enclosed with 
each notice , Replies to the notice were received from 
respondent No. 1 and respondent No, 5 bearing date 
9th March , 1971 but which appear to have been posted 
on 10th March , 1971. The notice ( Exhibit PW . 8 / 1 ) 
was served on respondent No. 5 on 6th March , 1971 
as pcr acknowledgement receipt admitted by him (Ex 
thibit 9 ) but there is no clear evidence as to when the 
notice was served upon respondent No . 1 but it must 
have been before 9th March , 1971 when he sent A 
reply to this notice . Although the case of the peti 
tioner in the arguments was that both the handbill 


the candidature , or withdrawal, or any candi 
date , being a statement reasonably calculated 
to prejudice the prospects of that candidates 
election ." 


In vicw of the pleadings of the parties , the questions 
that arise are whether respondent No. 1 res 
pondent No. 5 , Dr. Roshan Lal (RIW . 34 ) elec 
tion agent of respondent No. 1 , . Sham 
Lal and Sood Litho Press printed and / or 
published annexures A and B ; whether these anne 
xures contain any statement which is false; whether 
these statements relate to the personal character or 
conduct of the petitioner and whether these statements 
are reasonably calculated to prcjudice the prospects 
of the petitioner s election . The part of the section 
relating to the belief of respondent No. 1 would not 
come into play in view of the case set up by respon 
dent No. 1 in his written statement. The question 
whether these posters were printed at any press other 
than Sood Litho Press would also not arise as , apart 


4514 


THẺ GAZETTẺ OF INDĨA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972 / AsVÌNA 29, 1894 


[ PART II - - 


annexure A and the poster annexure B had been 
printed on 22nd February, 1971 , on the basis of the 
statement of Chhattar Sain (PW . 55 ) and although the 
poster annexure B also contains statements which , 
according to the petitioner , are false, a copy of the 
postcr annexure B was not annexed to the said notice . 
The notice (Exhibit PW , 3 / 1 ) alleged that respondent 
No. 1 was a congress candidate opposing the petitioner 
and Jai Prakash Goel ( respondent No. 5 ) and Sham 
Lal are his election agents and incharge and working 
actively for the furtherance and the prospects of elec 
tion of respondent No. 1 ; that respondent No, 1 res 
ponndent No. 5 and Sham Lal have issued or caused 
to issue the pamphlet annexure A printed at Sood 
Litho Press , Delhi containing false statements , that 
the said three persons, feeling apprehensive or almost 
sure that respondent No. 1 will not be elected in a 
fair and impartial election unless the petitioner is de 
famed or disreputed by publishing false posters or by 
distributing falde hand bills or pamphlets , have issued 
and widely circulated and distributed the said hand 
bull containing false and defamatory statements ; that 
Sood Litho Press is also civilly and criminally liable 
for printing the said hand bill which is defametory 
and circulated to bring the petttioner in low estimation 
of the electorate and voters ; that all the persons whom 
the notice is addressed are civilly and criminally liable 
for the issue and wide distribution and publication of 
the handbill. The notice, therefore , called upon these 
persons to publicly denounce the issue of the poster und 
or contradict the same publicly and issue a statement 
publicly that the contents of the said poster /handbill 
or pamphlet are false and to take all steps to the said 
effect. Although there is a reference to " poster" in 
the notice, this word appears to have been used indis 
criminately for the said handbill . By his reply (EC . 
PW . 4 / 3 ) respondent No. 1 denied all the allegations 
about the issue of the handbill and so did respondent 
No. 5 by his reply (Exhibit PW . 4 / 2 ) . 

I will first deal with the legal aspect of the mattor as 
to whether the statements made in Annexure . A and 
B are false statements relating to the personal char 
acter or conduct of the petitioner . I may state that 
no arguments has been addressed by respondent No . 1 
on the question that if the statements are flase and 
relate to the personal character or conduct of the 
petitioner such statements would not be reasonably cal 
culated to prejudice the petitioner s election . The 
petitioner has undoubtedly stated that the statements 
are false and it contended on his behalf that upon that 
statement having been made, the burden of proving that 
the statements are true, shifts to respondent No . 1 . Reli 
ance is placed upon 1971 ( 3 ) Supreme Court cases 303 
in re : Nepel Chandra Roy V . Netai Chandra Das and 
others where two previous decision of the Supreme 
Court reported in A . I. R . 1965 Supreme Court 677 in 
re : Şheopal Sing v . Ram Pratap and A . I. R . 1967 Supreme 
Court 808 in re : Kumara Nand V . Brijmohan Lal 
Sharma have been noticed . It is observed in the first 
of these cases : 
" The law on the subject is clear. Sub - section ( 4 ) 

of section 123 of the Act requires ( 1 ) that 
there should be publication of any statement 
of fact by a candidate ; ( 2 ) that fact is false ; 
( 3 ) the candidate believes it to be false or 
does not believe it to be true; ( 4 ) the state 
ment is in relation to the personal character 
or conduct of another candidate ; and (5 ) the 
said statement is one being reasonably calcu 
lated to prejudice the prospects of the other 
candidates election . The onus on an election 
petitioner under section 123 ( 4 ) of the Act is 
to show that a statement of fact was publish 
ed by a candidate or his agent or by any 
other person with the consent of the candidate 
or his election agent and also to show that 
the said statement was false and related to 
the personal character or conduct of the other 
candidate . The onus can be discharged by the 
complaining candidatę gwearing to that effect . 
Once that is dons, the burden shifts to the 


candidate making false statement of fact to 

show what is belief was ," 
The Supreme Court did not observe in this case that 
the onus to prove that the statement is false is dis 
charged by the complaining candidate swearing to that 
effect. It is said that this onus can be discharged by 
the complaining candidate swearing to that effect. The 
question whether onus has been discharged or not y 
a mere oath depends upon the facts and circumstances 
of the case . In Sheopal Singh s case the Supreme 
Court observed that: 
" The burden of proof as a matter of law and as 

a matter of adducing evidence is on the party 
who seeks to get the election set aside, to 
establish corrupt practice; but, if he adduces 
suficient evidence , the burden of adtiucing 
evidence shifts on to the other party . That 
apart when the entire evidence has been 
adduced in the case the question of ur 

den of proof becomes merely academical" , 
That question of burden of proof on a complaining 
candidate under section 123 ( 4 ) of the Act has been 
expressed by the Supreme Court in Kumara Nand s 
cuse in these words: 
" So the main onus on an election , petitioner under 

Section 123 ( 4 ) is to show that a statement of 
fact was published by a candidate or his agent 
or by any other person with the consent of 
the candidate or his election agent and also 
to show that that statement was falsa And 
related to his personal character or conduct . 
Once that is proved and the complaining candi 
date has sworn as above indicated , the burden 
shifts to the candidate making the false stute 
ment of fact to show what his belief was. The 
further question as to prejudice to the pros 
pects of election is generally a matter of in 
ference to be arrived at by the tribunal on 

the facts and circumstances of each case ” . 
It is , therefore , clear that the entire burden to prove 
that the impugned statement is false is upon the peti 
tioner and , depending upon the facts of the case , it 
can be discharged by a mere oath of the petitioner 
himself . 

It is contended on behalf of respondent No . 1 that 
in the present case it is not enough for the petitioner 
to establish the falsity of the impugned statements by 
his mere oath because , being a question relating to 
which documentary evidence would exist, he should 
further have brought that documentary evidence before 
the Court. It is true that Kula Nand Bharti ( Riw . 4 ) 
one of the witnesses of respondent No. 1 stated in 
cross-examination on 8th February , 1972, that the 
statements against the petitioner are false but he 
again said that he had never seen this pamphiot and 
he had no knowledge about the correctness or other 
wise of its contents . He then says that the statements 
against the pctitioner in the poster annexure B are 
false but I do not think the petitioner can rely upon 
this sort of a statement to show that coupled with his 
own oath he has discharged the burden of proving 
that the impugned statements are false . Apart from 
the petitioner, his other witnesses like Lala Ram 
Gupta ( PW , 4 ) ; Madan Lal Khurana ( PW , 0 ) ; Inder 
Mohan Bhardwaj ( PW . 30 ) ; G . L . Rawul ( PW . 35 ) ; 
Dharam Parkash Khosla (PW , 48 ) and Som Dev Arya 
(PW , 52 ) have also stated that the statements are 
false . There statements constitute only oral evidence 
of the parties . In addition the petitioner fled the 
report of proceedings in Parliament ( Ex . PW . 57 / 1 ) 
relating to what may be described as the " Dal affair 
and it is with reference to what is contained in this 
report and other evidence on the record that it has 
been contended by the petitioner that the statements 
in the pamphlet and the poster (Annexure A and 
annuexure B respectively ) are false . 

Let me first take the statements in the heartline 
annexure A . The first statement in the headline of 
this handbill means that the petitioner has taken a 


Sec. 3 ( ii: 7 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 24, 1894 


4515 


contract of Dal for sell (Khud ) . It is not disputed 
by the petitioner that he was elected to Parliament in 
February, 1967. His family firm Bhujan Mal Kundan 
Lal, which is a dealer in pulse , had been given pulse 
contracts for the Arst time in April, 1967 , as admitted 
by him in his cross examination on 1st February , 
1972 . The question is whether the word sell (koud ) 
means that the contract was taken by him in his own 
name or docs it include a contract taken in the name 
of his brothers on this family firm of which , according 
to him he is not a partner but of which , according to 
respondent No . 1, he continues to be a benami partner . 
In his statement on 25th January , 1972 , the petitioner 
admitted that the Arm Bhujan Mal Kundan Lal was 
started by his gratid - lather Bhujan Mal and it continu 
ecl even in his father s life time. He further admits 
that he was a partner in this firm in his father s life 
time alongwith his brothers upto 1954 or 1955 buc !elt 
it in 1954 . He feigns ignorance of the fact whether 
the firm was a joint Hindu fami. y Arm prior to his 
joining it but he admits that a partnership deed vas 
exccuted when he became a partner of this ſirm . He 
further states that there were 6 partners in this ſum , 
namely , himself and his five brothers having equal 
shares . Then he states that a deed of dissolution WAS 
executed when he separated from this Arm . He denied 
the suggestion that this deed of dissolution had been 
executed because as a practioner on the Indome- lax 
side he did not want to show his name as a partner ol 
the firm . 

Even if the petitioner was not a partner of 
the arm at the relevant lime his interest in and con 
nertion with the Arm is established by the fact that 
the olkces of both are in the same building adjoining 
each other and that until two years back hc was using 
the telephone of this firm . The petitioner admitted 
that when he was a Member of Parliament in 1 .167 , 
he had intimated to the Parliament Secretarial that his 
office telephone number was 226568 which is the tele 
phone number of this ſirm . Then he admits that even 
after dissolution he had some deposits in the firm 
and it is proved on the record that this firm has lepo 
sits in the name of his wife and daughter which 
have been increasing in terms of thousands year aiter 
year -- the suggestion of respondent No. 1 being that 
the amounts of increase in the deposits represent the 
petitioner s share in the profits of this firm . Bhani 
Ram Gupta , brother of the petitioner who is admilled 
ly a partner of this firm has not been producer nur 
has any other partner of this firm been produced to 
support the petitioner . After all, the firm is a family 
firm which had been started by the grand - father of the 
petitioner and to an outsider it would appear as it 
the petitioner also had continued as a partner of this 
firm . If the petitioner continues to be a partner oi 
this Arm even though henami the use of the 
aforesaid word self would not be a false statenicnt 
but even iſ in fact the petitioner had ceased to te a 
partner of the firm . his brothers and other menilor 
of the family admittedly continued the firm and it still 
remains a family Arm . Further, the petitioner has 
admitted in his statement on lst February, 1972 , that 
he and some of his brothers and nephews are living 
jointly in the house at 44 - E , Kamla Nagar, which is 
owned by all the six brothers. Now , if a person is 
contesting an election and a contract was obtained in 
the name of his brother or his son or any other close 
relation when such relations are living with him joint 
ly , it would not be a false statement to Shy that curh 
a person had obtained the contract for self (KHUS), 
A word sell is comprehensive enough to include bus 
brothers and other members of the family who cor 
stitue the Arm . In my opinion , the use of the wori 
self cannot be said to he a l alse statement. 

Then the pamphlet goes on to say that the petitioner 
got contracts worth lacs of rupees for his brothers, 
Bhani Ram Gupta or any other partner of the firm 
has not been produced to deny that the petitioner har 
got these pulse contracts for this Arm although Bhani 
Ram Gupta is mentioned at item No. 94 in the list of 


witnesses filed by the pelitloner . Further the con 
tracts given to this firm have not been got produced 
by summoning them from the Department concerned 
and for that reason , a suggestion has been made on 
behall of respondent No. 1 that iſ the Ales relating to 
these contracts were available in Court , there would 
have been found some connection between the peti 
tioner and the procurement of these contracts . The 
statement that the contracts were worth lacs of rupees 
is true as the petitioner , in his statement on 1st Feuru 
ary, 1972, admits that the contracts of Da that his 
brothers had were worth lacs . 

The statement in this handbill that the pulse was 
adultorated (Sarl -Gali ) is said to be proved by the pro 
ceedings of Parliament Exhibit PW . 57 / 1 - A . The 
heading of the short notice question pertaining to 
these contracts is " supply of sub - standard Foodgrains 
lor Defence Consumption ." . The petitioner contends 
that “ suh -standard " means " not according to the 
specifications of the contract " but it is difficult for me 
to accept the contention that " sub - standard " cannot 
include adulterated . THIS heading clearly indicates 
that the subject matter of discussion in Parllament 
was the supply of sub - standard foodgrains for Defence 
consumption by the said firm . In answer to one of the 
question , it is stated that out of a total quantity of 
962 tons of Dal and 184 tons of barley supplied by 
this firm from April, 1967 onwards, 18 tons of Dal and 
23 tons o1 bareley had to be rejected as they did not 
conform to the specifications laid down in the contracts. 
The quantity of rejection is considerable and the fact 
remains that the rejection was on the ground that the 
Dal tendered did not conform to the specifications, I 
do not see why it cannot be said with any measure 
of truth that the Dal supplied to the extent of rejectioni 
was aclulterated . The substance of the proceedings of 
Parliament relating to this allair was published in 
various newspapers . Responsible members of Parlia 
ment appear from the proceedings to have stated that 
there was a calculated attempt to defraud the country s 
exchaquer to the tune of at least Rs , 52 lacs in a total 
purchase of Rs. 1 , 88 , 50 ,000 . It is further stated that 
it is not only the country which has been defraudej 
in money but the health of the troops would have scen 
seriously jeopardized because the pu se supplied was 
completely moth -eaten and worm -eaten and that it 
was a serious anti -national act. — While talking of this 
firm and Bhani Ram Gupta , there are questions refer 
ring to petitioner as a brother of Bhani Ram Gupta . 
In fact, there are suggestions to black - list this Arm 
and to institute an enquiry through the Central Bureau 
of investigation . It cannot , therefore , be said that 
any of the aforesaid statements is false . 

Then objection is raised to the description of the peti 
tioner as an " opportunist " . This description of the 
petitioner is justified as true on the petitioner is justift 
ed as ture on the basis of the statement of the peti 
tioner on 25th January, 1972 that : 
" I remained a member of the Delhi Legisla 

tive Assembly till 1957. When its term expir 
ed I did not continue after 1957. The Tall 
Sangh contested the 1958 alections to the VIunl 
cipal Corporation . I had left the Juna Sangh 
in 1955 . I did not apply to the Jana Sangh 
for a ticket of Corporation elections in : 978 . 
I did not apply for the Jana Sangh ticket in 
the 1962 elections to the Parliament and there 
is , therefore, no question of their refusing me 
the ticket. I contested the 1962 Parliamen 
tary elections as an independent. I lost this 
election and my security was forfelted . There 
was a Jana Sangh as well as a Congress canal 
date against me in 1962 elections. I also con 
tested the 1962 elections to the Corporation as 
an Independent candidate . In this election also 
there was a Congress as well as a Jana Sangh 
candidate , I did not think of joining the 
Jana Sangh even then . I was approached by 
the Jana Sangh . In 1963, the Jana Sangh 


4516 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ Part 11 


asked me to join it. I said , I will see how 
the Jana Sangh functions and then I will con 
sider the question of Joining it . I joined the 
Jana Sangh in 1965 on my being asked repea 

tedly and on my being satisfied " . 
In the context in which the word " opportunist " has been 
used , it does not refer to the personal character and it 
is clear from the afore -quoted statement that the peti 
tioner has been changing his political loyalities from 
time to time in contesting various elections. The 
statement that he is an opportunist " cannot be said 
to be false or to relate to his personal character . 

Then comes the statement in the handbill that the 
petitioner who tried to feed adulterated ( Sarl-Gau ) 
pulse to our Army and about whom the screen was 
lifted in Parliament in 1970 should not be sent to 
Parliament in 1971. If my construction of the word 
" sell be correct then , the statement that it was the 
petitioner who tried to feed adulterated pulse to the 
Army cannot be said to be a false statement. That 
there was a discussion in a Parliament about the pulse 
supplied by the firm of the petitioner s brothers is 
proved by the proceeding Exbibit PW . 57 / 1 . The use 
of the word " exposed " is merely rely an exaggeration 
of what happened in Parliament. In my opinion , even 
If it is an exaggeration , the statement cannot be said 
to be false . 

The principles which govern the construction of pam 
pblets or leaflets or posters issued by persons at the 
Hme of elections are well settled . The view of the 
Supreme Court in ( 1964 ) 7. S . C . R 790 in re : Kultar 
singh v . Mukhtiar Singh was expressed in these 
words : 
" The document must be read as a whole and its 

purport and effect determined in a fair , objec 
tive and reasonable manner. In reading such 
document it would be unrealistic to ignore the 
fact that when election meetings are held and 
appeals are made by candidates of opposing 
political parties , the atmosphere is ugyally 
surcharged with partisan feelings and emotions 
and the use of hyperboles or exaggerated 
language, or the adoption of metaphors, and 
the extravagance of expression in attacking 
one another , are all a part of the game, and 
so , when the question about the effect of 
speeches delivered or pamphlets distributed at 
election meetings is argued in the cold atmos 
phere of a judicial chamber , some allowance 
must be made and the impugned speeches of 
pamphlets must be construed in that light. In 
doing so , however, it would be unreasonable 
to ignore the question as to what the effect of 
the said speeches or pamphlet would be on the 
mind of the ordinary voter who attend such 
meetings and reads the pamphlets or hears 

the speeches." 
These observations were accepted in the subsequent 
decision of the Supreme Court reported in A . I. R . 1970 
Supreme Court 1231 in re : Dev Kanta Barooah v . Golok 
Chandra Baruah and others and it was observed that 
though the words used may be harsh , , they would not 
be such as to lead the voters to think that the com 
plaining candidates had a low moral character . With 
regard to the attack against the personal character of 
the complaining candidate , the Supreme Court cited 
the following passage from a decision of Darling J, in 
Gumberland (Cockermouth Division ) case ( 1901) 5 0 , 
M and H 155: - - , 
" You must not make or publish any false state 

ment of fact in relation to the personal 
character or conduct of a candidate; if you 
do, it is an illegal practice . It is not an 
otence to gay something which may be severe 
about another person por which may be un 
Justificable por which may be derogatory un 
less it amounts to a false statement of fact in 


relation to the personal character or conduct 
of such candidate ; there is a great distinction 
to be drawn between a false statement of fact 
which affects the personal character or conduct 
of a candidate and a false statement of fact 
which deals with the political position or repu 
tation or action of the candidate . If that were 
not kept in mind , this statute would simply 
have prohibited at election times all sorts of 
criticism which was not strictly true relation 
to the political behaviour and opinions of the 
candidate . That is why it carefully provides 
that the false statement, in order to be an 
illegal practice, must relate to the personal 

character and personal conduct" , 
It is noticed in Dev Kanta Barooah s case that this 
passage was quoted with approval in the Supreme Court 
decision reported in ( 1969 ) 1 Supreme Court Cases 82 
in re : Gurult Shrihari Baliram Jiyatode V . Vithaltao 
and it was observed " that a false statement of fact , 
which deals with the political position or reputation 
or action of a candidate , cannot be held to be a corrupt 
practice ." The Supreme Court also referred to 
its decision reported in 1962 ( 3 ) Supp . S . C . R . 114 in 
re: Inder Lal v . Lal Singh and observed that false 
imputations against only the personal character of the 
compaining candidate are hit by section 123 ( 4 ) of the 
Act. In other words, it is only the “man beneath the 
politician " who is protected and if any statements are 
made with regard to the political character of the com 
plaining candidate , they will not be hit by the afore 
said section , In Dev Kanta Barooah s case the Supreme 
Court observed that exaggeration is also permissible . 

To summarise my findings on the handbill annexure 
A , I am of the view , 
( 1 ) the statement that contract of Dal was for 

self cannot be said to be a false statement; 
( 2 ) the statement that the petitioner got contracts 

worth lacs of rupees for his brothers is not a 
false statement in respect of the value of the 
contracts and the petitioner has failed to dis 
charge the onus of proving that the statement 
that he got contracts for his brothers is a false 
statement; 


( 3 ) the statement that the Dal supplied was adul 

terated (Sarl-Gali ) is not a falge statement . 
( 4 ) the statement that the petitioner is an oppor 

tunist relates to his political character and can 
not be said to be a false statement as to his 

personal character , and 
(5 ) the statement that the petitioner who tried 

to feed adulterated (Sari-Gall ) pulse to our 
Army and about whom the screen was lifted 
in Parliament in 1970 cannot be said to be a 

false statement. 
Therefore, the handbill annexure A is not hit by 
section 123( 4 ) of the Act. 


Then I come to the poster annexure B . This poster 
has to be construed independently of the aforesaid 
hardbill. The heading of the poster describes the peti 
tioner as the hero of pulse scandal and his middle 
name is stated to be " Dal" instead of "Lal" . Now , 
" Scandal" means " A circumstance or action that offende 
properiety or established moral conceptions or dis 
graces those associated with or involved in it " accorc 
ing to Webster s Third New International Dictionary . 
In view of the proceedings of Parliament Exhibit PW . 
57 / 1 , it cannot be disputed that there was a scandal 
attached to the supply of pulses by the Arm of the pett 
tioner s brothers to the Army. The statement describ 
ing the petitioner as the hero of the scandal may be 
an exaggeration because there 18 no doubt that the 
name of one of his brothers Bhani Ram Gupta and 
of the firm was mentioned in the proceedings in Par 
liament as the supplier of pulges but the connection of 
the petitioner with them was also alleged. It cannot 


Sec . 3 (1 ) ] 


4517 


therefore, be said that the petitioner was not concern 
ed at all with the aforesaid scandal. Apart from the 
petitioner was a sitting member of Parliament from 
the erstwhile Sadar Parliamentary Constituency and 
the implication is that he misused this position . It 
would not be incorrect to say that his description as 
the hero of the scandal really relates to his pollţical 
character rather than to his personal character as he 
was involved in the scandal in his capacity as a poli 
tician . The misdescription of the middle name of the 
petitioner is really only a misdescription and cannot be 
said to be an attack against his personal character, 
This misdescription may even be indecent or improper 


Act. 


The other statements in the poster about the 


Road Bungalow and urging the people to take his 
Darshan before he goes back , can by no stretch of 
imagination be said to be an attack against the perso 
nal character of the petitioner . These statements may 
be ironical ; satirical or even indecent but that is not 
sufficient to make these statements to be false state 
ments relating to the personal character of the peti 
tioner . No part of the poster annexure B can be said 
to be hit by section 123 (4 ) of the Act. 


This conclusion would really be enough to dispose 
of the petition but in view of the fact that the peti 
tioner has a right to appeal to the Supreme Court, I 
will deal with the other contentions which remains to 
be dealt with under section 113 ( 4 ) of the Act. 


The next connected question is about the printing of 
annexure A and annexure B . Both respondent No. 1 
and respondent No. 5 have denied having any hand in 
the printing of this handbill and poster. It may be 
restated that the case of the petitioner is that both 
the handbill and the poster had been printed at the 
Sood Litho Press as the Press - line thereon indicates. 
His further case is that the persons responsible for its 
printing were respondent No . 1 ; Dr. Roshan Lal (RIW . 
34 ) his election agent; respondent No. 5 ; Sham Lal and 
Sood Litho Press. There is no evidence whatsoever 
to connect printing of the handbill and poster anne 
xures A and B with Dr. Roshan Lal ( RIW . 34 ) . So far 
aş Sham Lal is concerned , his name does not appear 
On the handbill annexure A though his name appears 
on the poster annexure B as the Secretary of the 
People s Council. The poster annexure B which 
carries the name of Sham Lal is not mentioned in the 
notice Exhibit PW . 3 / 1 served by Lala Ram Gupta , 
Advocate (PW . 4 ) on behalf of the petitioner . The case 
of printing was improved in the better particulars to 
suggest that the printing had been done not only at 
Sood Litho Press but also at Sarydeghik Press and 
other presses . The case that such printing had been 
done at other presses was also abandoned at the hear 
ing because even Babu Ram Sharma (PW . 11 ) and 
Chatter Sain ( PW .55 ) belonging to the Sarvdeshik Press 
did not own the printing of the said handbill and 
poster, Sham Lal has not been produced as a wit 
ness . 


himself , the witness was unreliable . Even the affida 
yit merely mentions the names of respondent No. 1 
and respondent No. 5 are not the names either of 
Dr. Roshan Lal (RIW . 34 ) or Sham Lal. In the face 
of the categoric denial of this witness about the print 
ing of the handbill and the poster in the Sood Litho 
Press and the absence of any records of this press re 
lating to such alleged printing, no reliance can be 
placed upon his statement in the affidavit Exhibit P . 1 
that these were printed at the Sood Litho Press . 

Babu Ram Sharma ( P . W . 11) is manager of the 
Sarydeshik Press which is stated to be adjacent to 
the Sood Litho Pregs . He states that he saw hand 
bills like annexure A to the petition being printed at 
Sood Litho Press in sets of four and he saw six reams 
of paper which had been printed at Sood Litho Press 
which will make about 12 .000 pamphlets like annexure 
A . He also states that he saw posters being printed 
at Soud Litho Press whose contents had not been read 
by hlm . Council for the petitioner then wanted to 
put the poster annexure B to this witness to ascertain 
whether it had been printed at Sood Litho Press but 
in view of the answer of the witness , the question 
was disallowed. In any case this witness categorically 
stated that no part of annexure B had been printed 
at the Sarydęshik Press . In cross- examination he gave 
the explanation that he saw the printing being done 
in Sood Litho Press because for performing his duties 
he had to go out of the press also . It is difficult for 
me to see why this witness should have gone to the 
Sood Litho Press for going out of his press when there 
is a room in between the two. His statement is un 
impressive and exaggerated and has been rejected by 
me already in connection with the printing of pam 
phlets Exhibits PW .11 / 1 to PW . 11 / 8 . Then , Chatter 
Sain (PW .55 ) also of the Sarvdeshik Press states that 
on 22nd February , 1971 he had gone to Sood Litho 
Press in the afternoon at about 3 .00 P . M . because he 
had to take delivery of a poster which he had given 
to them for printing and that when he went there he 
saw posters being printed and lying on the ground . 
He alleges that he had a look at the poster annexure 
B and asked Aggarwal (meaning the proprietor of the 
Sood Litho Press ) as to why a proof mistake had ap 
peared in the poster that he saw - the proof mistake 
being that instead of the word Lal in the name of the 
petitioner , the words Dal had appeared in this poster . 
He then identified the poster annexure B and further 
axplained that Aggarwal told him that there was no 
mistake in proof reading and also showed him the 
pamphlet annexure A to the petition . This witness 
seems to have been well prepared for the cross - exa 
mination because on being asked , in cross -examina 
llon on 21st January 1972 , about the poster, for which 
he had gone to Sood Litho Press he took out a poster 
from his pocket which was marked as Exhibit P . W . 
55 / 7 . He denied the suggestion that the poster Exhi 
bit PW .5507 had been printed at Sarvdeshik Press for 
the purpose . Although the witness deposed to the 
subject matter of the pamphlet and poster (annexure 
A and B ) , his memory about the subject matter of 
other printed material which he saw at Sood Litho 
Press falled . He Aret admitted that he had gone to 
Şood Litho Press only in connection with the print 
ing of poster Exhibit PW . 55 / 7 but again said that he 
had been to this press several times as it was on his 
way . The testimony of this witness also has been 
rejected by me in connection with the printing of the 
pamphlets Exhibit PW .11 / 1 to Exhibit PW . 11 / 8 . He 
appears to be a witness who is definitely interested 
in the petitioner and his oral statement even with the 
oral statement of Babu Ram Sharma (PW . 11 ) cannot 
conclusively prove that the pamphlet annexure A and 
the poster annexure B were printed at Sood Litho 
Press . It may be emphasised that no declaration of 
Şood Litho Press under section 127 - A of the Act has 
been proved with respect to pamphlet annexure A 
and the poster annexure B . Most important is the 
fact that Avtar Krishan Aggarwal who is the proprle 
tor of the Sood Litho Press has not been produced by 
the petitioner . In the face of the denial of respondent 


Taufeeq Farooqt (PW . 2 ) , manager of the Sood Litho 
Press , was examined by the petitioner himself. He 
denies that the handbill annexure A or the poster 
annexure B were printed at his press even though 
he saw the name and telephone number of his press 
printed on these documents. He states that a reply 
to the notice served by Lala Ram Gupta (PW . 4 ) had 
been sent but this reply has not been proved . This 
witness was allowed to be cross - examined by the peti 
tioner under section 154 of the Indian Evidence Act 
and in cross - examination , his affidavit dated 17th 
August, 1971 (Exhibit P . 1 ) was shown to him , Ob 
jection was raised on behalf of respondent No. 1 about 
the affidavit being exhibited on the ground that the 
petitioner cannot contradict his own witness . It is 
not necessary to deal with this objection because no . 
reliance can be placed on the statement in the afidavit 
which was obtained during the pendency of the peti 
tion particularly when , acrording to the petitioner 


4518 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II 


il such rivalry or even enmity is taken as proved , the 
connection of respondent No. 5 with the pamphlet 
annexure A or the poster annexure B has not been 
pruved . The only document in which thc name of 
Tespondent No . 5 appears with the name of respon 
dent No. 1 is the bill ( Exhibit PW . 2 / 1 ) for Rs. 54 
which has been rejected by me already as having 
any connection with respondent No . 1 . The allegation 


No . 1 and respondent No. 5 and because of the im 
provement by the peltioner in his case with regard 
to the persons and presses responsible for the print 
ing of these two documents i have to come to the 
conclusion that no reliable evidence has been produced 
to prove that respondent No . 1 and respondent No. 5 
were responsible for the printing of the pamphlets 
annexure A or the poster annexure B as alleged 

Further , stated earlier , Sham Lal has also not been 
produced altogether a copy of the notice Exhibit PW . 
3 / 1 with a copy of the pamph . et annexure A was 
served upon him . In his cross - examination on 25th 
January 1972 , the petitioner stated that he had given 
the name of Sham Lal to Lala Ram Gupta , Advocate 
( PW . 4 ) as his name was printed on the pamphlet 
annexure A . This is factually incorrect as the name 
name of Sham Lal appears on the poster annexure 
B but not on the pamphlet annexure A . That a 
person by the name of Sham Lal exists is admitted 
by the petitioner in his cross -examination on ist 
February , 1972 , because he states that he knew Sham 
Lal for a large number of years and met him during 
the election days in connection with annexures A 
and B . He further states that he had met Sham Lal 
before he met his advocate , Lala Ram Gupta (PW . 4 ) . 
He also admits that Sham Lal had issued some other 
handbll. s against him and some in favour of respon 
dent No. 1 earlier and , therefore , he connected Sham 
Lal with the pamphlet annexure A . IIe admit that 
there was a quarrel between his nephew Ram Bhagat 
and Sham Lal which resulted in a report by Ram 
Bhagat against Sham Lal. The petitioner has asserted 
that he has no enmity with Sham Lal who carries on 
business in cotton and foodgrains. In spite of all this , 
Sham Lal was not even attempted to be produced in 
evidence and it is no justification for his non -produc 
tion to say that he would have deposed againyt t e 


of pamphlet annexure A or the poster annexure B 
also remains unproved . 

Then I come to the question whether statements 
such as are mentioned in the aforesaid two documents 
were repeated by respondent No. 1 and respondent 
No . 5 in public meeting . Madan Lal Khurana ( P . W . 
10 ) has stated that on 1st March , 1971, while he was 
sitting his office in Chowk Chhe Tooti he heared res 
pondent No. 1 and respondent No. 5 speaking at a 
meeting where they said that the petitioner had taken 
Dal Thekas and had looted the public ; that the Dal 
which was supplied was adulterated although it was 
meant for the Army which is for the defence of the 
country and that the petitioner was like a traitor to 
the country . I have already disbelieved this witness 
with regard to this meeting because he alleges that 
he heard all this sitting inside his offlce which was 
at a distance of about 150 to 200 yards from the place 
of the inecting . In the face of denial of respondent 
No. 1 and respondent No . 5 and absence of corrobora 
tion as to what was said at this alleged meeting, the 
alleged speeches of respondent No . 1 and respondent 
No. 5 cannot be said to have been proved . It is not 
necessary to go in detail into the testimony of other 
witnesses of the petitioner who have spoken about 
similar specches at other meetings but I will merely 
mention them . They are Joginder Nath Kapur (PW . 
14 ) ; Nand Kishore (PE . 22 ) ; Kundan La ] (PW . 27 ) ; 
Krishan Lal (PW , 29 ) ; Inder Mohan Bhardwaj (PW . 
30 ) ; Satya Pal Chugh ( PW . 34 ) ; G . L . Rawal (PW . 
35 ) ; S . D . Arya (PW . 52 ) and the petitioner himself . 
The evidence of all these witnesses, as has been dis 
cussed by me already in the context of other points 
is op persons interested in the petitioner who have 
been disbelived by me in material particulers either 
with regard to the alleged dates and places of the 


be the position , the onus of proving that the pamphlet 
annexure A and the poster annexure B were got 
printed by respondent No. 1 is upon the petitioner . 
In my view , thc pentioner has failed to discharge 
his oņus and it cannot, therefore, be held that respon 
dent No. 1 had any hand in the printing of the pam 
phlet. annexure A or the poster annexure B lt 
is not necessary to give a finding as to whether these 
two documents were printed by Sham Lal because 
there is no evidence that he acted with the conscut 
of respondent No . 1 or his election agent. 

So far as respondent No . 5 in concerned , the peti 
tioner s case that the former was the counting agent 
of the latter has not been proved . Nor has it been 
proved that respondent No . 5 , even if he got pamph 
let annexure A and poster annexure B printed , got 
them printed or published with the conset of respon 
dent No. 1 or his election agent. The petitioner has 
stated in Court on 24th January, 1972 , that his family 
and the family of respondent No . 5 have had strain 
ed relations from the time of his grand - father and 
such strainer relations continued so much so that res 
pondent No . 5 has been sending letters of complaint 
against him and his family to the authorities . It is 
contended that the yo -called progressive party of res 
pondent No. 5 backed the Congress and , therefore . 
respondent No. 1 in this election and this is proved 
by the report oť A . K . Son ( PW . 36 ) who wrote the 
article Exhibit PW . 36 / 1 published in the Hindustan 
Timies. Respondent No . 1 has denied that respon 
dent No . 5 was his agent or active worker . There is 
no evidence to show that respondent No. 1 or his 
election agent had given their consent to respondent 
No. 5 to publish any statements as are contemp ated 
by section 123 ( 4 ) of the Act. It is true that admit 
ladly respondent No . 5 spoke at two meetings in 
support of respondent No . 1 but that cannot amount 
to consent within the meaning of section 123 ( 4 ) of 
the Act. There has been considerable cross -examina 
tion of the petitioner on 3rd February , 1972 , by res 
pondent No. 5 as to business rivalry between the firm 
of petitioner s brothers and respondent No. 5 but even 


surprising that although such sweeping and , accord 
ing to the petitioner , defamatory statements were made 
by respondent No. 1 and respondent No. 5 in meetings. 
the petitioner has not been able to produce any inde 
pendent testimony and has had to rely upon the testi 
mony of his own party people and workers who could 
not be expected to have attended meetings of respon 
dent No. 1 when they must themselves have been busy 
in the election campaign of the petitioner . Such bare 
oral testimony cannot be relied upon for priving the 
corrupt practice of publication which is in the nature 
of a criminal charge. I may only add that not even 
an attempt was made by the petitioner to introduce 
alleged tape records of speeches containing such state 
ments . 


The same remarks will apply to the testimony of 
witnesses with respect to the pamphlet annexure A 
and the poster annexure B being pasted throughout 
the constituency . In any case the pasting and publl 
cation by pasting of these two documents throughout 
the constituency has not been brought home to res 
pondent No. 1 or respondent No. 5 . If any other 
persons who were interested against the petitioner 
had done so , the consequence cannot fall upon the 
head of respondent No . 1 . 

l hen there is evidence of alleged distribution of the 
pamphlet annexure A throughout the constituency by 
respondent No . 1 and responrient No. 5 by almost the 
very same witnesses and for the same reasons their 
testimony cannot be relied upofl. There are only two 
witnsess whosc testimony need be discussed in this 
behalt , The first is G . L . Rawal (pw . 35 ) , who as 
stated earlier , is an Advocate . He states that on 24th 


S - 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 

4519 
= = = = = 

= 
or 25th February, 1971, he saw respondent No . 1 ; Dr. the Congress and four or five types of posters issued 
Roshan Lal (RIW . 34 ) and respondent No . 5 distribut by the Jana Snath and does not depose to having 
ing pamphlets like annexure A in the lanc where seen any handhill other than the handbill like all 
he was living. He states that Dr. Roshan Lal (RlW . nexure A To this extent his testimony contradicts 
34 ) came to his house and handed over a pamphlet the testimony of many other witnesses of the peti 
Like annexure A to him saying " look at the conduct tioner and the petitioner himsell who state that there 
of the candidate for whom you arc working . " He were numerous types of handbills and posters which 
states that such pamphlets were also seen by him in had been pasted or distributed in the entire consti 
the hands of respondent No , I and other workers. tuency. Although he spoke about the contents of 
Then he identifies the poster annexure PW . 10 / 1 annexures A and B to the petitioner, his memory 
which was alleged to have been brought out by the failed when he was asked about the contents of other 
Jana Sangh in answer to the pamphlet annexure A posters . He admits that when he was told by respon 
and the poster annexure B on or about 28th Febru dent No . 1 that the petitioner was not a good man ,, 
ary , 1971. Admittedly , he has been a member of the he did not reply back to say that whatever was stated 
Jana Sangh for about 18 to 20 years . In cross in Annexure A was wrong. The evidence of this 
examination he improver his statement by stating that witness is merely oral. He cannot be said to be com 
in the meeting in Ahata Kidara Chowk , Dr. Roshan pletely disinterested in the petitioner even though he 
Lal ( RIW . 34 ) also talked about the Dal Scandal. He asserts that he has no friendly relations with him . 
has spoken about yarious posters , handbills , pamph I cannot, therefore, reply upon his testimony to give 
lets and booklets which were alleged to have been à finding that respondent No , 1 handed over to him 
published by respondent No . 1 . He was cross - examin the pamphlet annexure A or had uttered the words 
ed with regard to their contents but after giving the attrlbuted to him . 
bare contents of some of them his memory failed . He 

Although the evidence of 
is alleged to have talked about the pamphlet annexure 

partisan witnesses is 

evidence under the Indlan Evidence Act , in election 
A with the petitioner and Joginder Jain who was the 

petitions it would 
Secretary of the Jana Sangh and who has not been 

not be safe to rely upon such 

evidence iſ any allegations made against the returned 
produced . In my view , the non -production of Jagin 
der Jain inakes the statement of this witness doubtlul. 

candidate are denied by him . An e . ection concerns 

the entire constituency and in this particular con 
Joginder Jain would have been a most important 
witress because he would have deposed not only about 

stituency there were more than 2 lacs vote . It is , 
the exact time when annexure A and / or anricxure 

therefore, surprising that the pctitioner was not able 

to prove the allegations with regard to distribution ; 
B to the petition were brought to his notice but also 

pasting ; oral publicity and other matters alleged by 
about the steps that he is alleged to have taken for 

him by adducing evidence of independent witnesses . 
contradicting the statements makle therein . A sugges 

It cannot be that every persons in the constituency 
tion was made on behalf of respondent No . 1 , that the 

belonged either to the Congress or to the Jana Sungh , 
poster Exhibit PW . 10 / 1 was brought into existence 

The allegations with regard to these matters are so 
after the filing of the petition . In view of the fact 
that the issuance of this poster before the day of pol 

sweeping that a person belonging to another political 
ling would have been a very important factor to 

party or not belonging to any political party would 

be bind iſ he could not see that mass of posters , 
determine when annexure A and annexure B had 

handbills etc ., which must have been exhibited in the 
come into existence and in further view of the fact 
that this poster is not even mentioned in the petition , 

entire constituency iſ the petitioner and his witnesses 
the suggestion of respondent No. 1 cannot be said to 

are to be believed . There is no independent testimony 

worth the name and , therefore, I feel it most unsato 
be without foundation , 

to give a Anding in favour of the petitioner with re 
According to the petitioner, annexures A and B gard to any of these matters. 
to the petition contain scrious allegation against his 
personal character which were likely to affect the 

In view of these conclusions, the petitioner must 
result oť his elculion . Steps taken by his party 

fail on issues Nos . 8 and 9 and consequentially also 

0 Issue No. 14 relating to any orders that may be 
through Joginder Jain or other persons would have 
Leen inportant steps to prove the existence of the 

required to be passed against respondent No . 5 under 

section 94 ( 1 ) of the Act . 
impugned pamphlet and poster. There is consider s 
able laculia in the evidence of the petitioner on this 

In the result , this petition fails and is dismissed 
aspect of the matter. I cannot, thereťore, rely upon 

with costs . The costs are assessed at Rs. 2 , 500 . 
the more oral statement of G . L . Rawal ( PE . 35 ) to 
come to the conclusion that respondent No . 1 or Dr. 

May, 19 , 1972 . 
Roshan Lal ( RIW . 34 ) had given the pamphlet an 
nexure A to him particularly in the fact of denial 

Sd . / - S . N . ANDLEY , 
of those two persons , 

Chief Justice. 
Then I come to the statement to D . P . Khosla ( P . W . 

( No. 82 / 2 / DL / 71. ] 
48 ) who is prartising as a Chartered Accountant arid 
who admittedly belongs to the same association of 
Income- tax practioners to which the petitioner he 
lungs . Ile alleges that he is not a member of any politi 

ORDERS 
cal party but yet almost after one year he remem 
bers the date ( 25th February , 1971) on which respon 

New Delhi, the 30th August 1972 
dent No . 1 came on a round in his area . This witness 
states that he was standing outside his house in the 

S . O . 3187, Whereas the Election Commission is sa 
street where he lives when respondent No. 1 accom tisfied that Shri S . Palaniappan Slo Shri Şengodan , 
panied by 8 or 10 persons came there at 7 . 30 or Varakoorampatti Village, Elampalayampalayam , Tiru 
8 .00 A . M . and gave him the pamphlet annexure A . 

chengode Taluk , Salem District , a contesting candidate 
lle further alleges that respondent No. I told him 

for election to the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly 
that the petitioner was not a good man as he indulged from 89 -Sankari (SC ) assembly constituency , held on 
in such activities as are mentioned in the pamphlet , 

March , 1971 has failed to lodge an account of his elec 
This witness also talks about the poster annexure B , 

tion expenses as required by the Representation of 
Then he states that after a few days, the petitioner the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder ; 
had gone to the stront of this witness and he asked 
the petitioner about what had been stated in annexures And whereas, the said candidate , even after the duo 
A and B on which the petitioner replied that the notice has not given any reason or cxplanation for the 
statements were false . In cross - examination , he de failure and the Election Commission is satisfied that 
roses to seeing four or five types of posters issuel hy he has no good reason or justification for the failurc ; 


4520 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the 
said Act , the Election Commission hereby declares the 
said Shri S . Palanippan to be disqualified for being 
chosen as and for being, a member of either House of 
Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly or Legis . 
lative Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this order . 

[ No . TN / LA/ 89 / 71 / ( 5 ) . ] 
भारत निर्वाचन आयोग 


प्रादेश 


नई दिल्ली , 30 अगस्त , 1972 , 


नई दिल्ली, 1 सितम्बर, 1972 
का० प्रा०3188.- यत:, निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया है कि 
मार्च, 1971 में हए विधान सभा के निर्वाचन के लिए 121 - सुन्दर 
गढ़ निर्वाचन क्षेत्र से चुनाव लड़ने वाले उम्मीदवार श्री सत्यनारायण 
अग्रवाल पो० उजालपुर, जिला सुन्दरगढ़ ( उड़ीसा ) लोक 
प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 1951 तथा तद्धीन बनाए गए नियमों 
द्वारा अपेक्षित अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों का कोई भी लेखा दाखिल 
करने में असफल रहे हैं ; | 

और, यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने उसे सम्यक सूचना दिये जाने 
पर भी अपनी इस असफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टी 
करण नहीं दिया है , तथा निर्वाचन आयोग का यह भी समाधान 
हो गया है कि उस के पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त 
कारण या न्याचित्य नहीं है ; 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10 - क के अनुसरण 
में निर्वाचन आयोग एसदद्वारा उक्त श्री सत्यनारायण अग्रवाल को 
मंमद के किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान सभा अथवा 
विधान परिषद के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए , इस आदेश की 
तारीख से तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निरहित घोषित 
करता है । 


का० प्रा०3187.- यतः,निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो 
गया है कि मार्च, 1971 को हर तमिलनाडु विधान सभा के 
निर्वाचन के लिए 89- संकारी अ० जा० निर्वाचन क्षेत्र से 
चनाव लड़ने वाले उम्मीदवार श्री एम० पालानी अप्पन मुपूत्र 
श्री मेनगोदन , वारकुरमपट्टी , ग्राम , ऐलामपालापा पलाटम , 
तोमचेनगोंडे तालक , जिला मलम , लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 
1951 तथा तदधीन बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा आपेक्षित अपने 
निर्वाचन व्ययों का कोई भी लेखा दाखिल करने में असफल रहे है ; 


और, यतः उक्त उम्मीदवार ने , उसे मम्यक सूचना दिये जाने 
पर भी , अपनी इस असफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टी 
करण नहीं दिया है , तथा निर्वाचन आयोग का यह भी समाधान 
हो गया है कि उसके पास इम असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त 
कारण या न्यायौचित्य नहीं है , 


[ सं० उड़ीसा -वि० स० / 121 / 71 ] 


New Delhi, the 8th September 1972 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10 - क के अनुसरण में 
निर्वाचन आयोग एतद्दारा उक्त श्री एस० पालानी अप्पन को 
संसद के किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान सभा अथवा 
विधान परिषद के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए, इस आदेश की 
तारीख से तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निरहित घोषित करता 


S . O . 3189. — Whereas the Election Commission is sa 
tisfied that Shri Kathirvel, Chandirapatti, Vellalapatti 
Dasampatti Uthangarai, a contesting candidate for 
election to the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly from 
75 -Uthangarai assembly constituency , held in March , 
1971 has failed to lodge an account of his election ex 
penses as required by the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, the said candidate , even after the due 
notice has not given any reason or explanation for the 
failure and the Election Commission is satisfied that 
he has no good reason or justification for the failure ; 
___ Now, therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the 
said Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the 
said Shri Kathirvel to be disqualified for being chosen 
as, and for being a member of either House of Parlia 
ment or of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative 
Council of a State for a period of three years from 
the date of this order , 


[ सं० तमिल वि० स०/ 89/ 71/ ( 5) ] 


New Delhi, the 1st September 1972 
S . 0 . 3188. - Whereas the Election Commission is sa 
tisfied that Shri Satyanarayan Agrawalla , at P. O . Ujal 
pur , District Sundargarh ( Orissa) , a contesting candi 
date for election to the Legislative Assembly from 121 
Sundargarh Assembly Constituency. held in March, 1971, 
has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses 
as required by the Representation of the People Act , 
1951 and the Rules made thereunder ; 


[ No. IN/ LA/75/ 71 (11) . ] 
नई दिल्ली , 8 सितम्बर, 1972 


And whereas, the said candidate even after due 
notices has not given any reason or explanation for 
the failure and the Commission is satisfied that he 
has not good reason or justification for such failure ; 


Now , therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the 
said Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the 
said Shri Satyanarayan Agrawalla to be disqualified 
for being chosen as, and for being , a member of either 
House of Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly 
or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this Order, 


का प्रा03189. .-- यत :निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो 
गया है कि तमिलनाडु विधान सभा के लिए मार्च, 1971 में हए 
निर्वाचन के लिए 75 उत्पांगराय सभा निर्वाचन क्षेत्र से चुनाव लड़ने 
वाले उम्मीदवार श्री काथिरवेल, चन्दिरापट्टी , बेल्लापट्टी , दासमपदी 
उत्थांगराय , लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 1951 तथा तदधीन 
बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा यथा अपेक्षित अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों का 
लेखा दाखिल करने में असफल रहे हैं ; 


[ No, OR- LA/121 / 71. 1 


S 


. 3(ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/AŞVINA 29, 1894 


4521 


- 


और, यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने , उसे सम्यक सूचना दिये जाने 
पर भी अपनी इस असफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टीकरण 
नहीं दिया है , तथा निर्वाचन आयोग का यह समाधान हो गया है कि 
इस के पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण या न्यायोचित्य 
नहीं है । 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10 - 2 के अनुसरण में 
निर्वाचन आयोग एतदद्वारा उक्त श्री काथिरवेल को संसद के 
दोनों सदनों में से किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान 
सभा अथवा विधान परिषद् के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए , 
इस आदेश की तारीख से तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निरहित 
घोषित करता है । 

[ सं० तमिलनाडु वि० स०/ 75 / 71 ( 11 ) ] 
New Delhi, the 11th September 1972 
8 . 0 , 3190 . - Whereas the Election Commission is 
satisfied that Shri Sadhu Ram , Plot No . AC - 2 , Opposite 
Collectorate, Beni Park, Jaipur , Rajasthan State, a 
contesting candidate for election to the House of the 
People from 6 -Dausa Parliamentary Constituency , held 
in March , 1971, has failed to lodge an account of his 
election expenses as required by the Representation 
of the People Act, 1951 and the Rules made there 
under ; 

And whereas, the said candidate even after due 
notices has not given any reason or explanation for 
the failure and the Commission is satisfied that he 
bas no good reason or justification for such failure ; 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the 
said Act , the Election Commission hereby declares the 
said Shri Sadhu Ram to be disqualified for being 
chosen as , and for being , a member of either House of 
Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly or Legisla 
tive Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this order . 

INo . RJ - HP/ 6 / 71. ] 
नई दिल्ली , 11सितम्बर, 1972 
का०मा० 3190. - यत :,निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया है 
कि मार्च, 1971 में हए लोक सभा के निर्वाचन के लिए 6 दौसा 
संसदीय निर्वाचन क्षेत्र से चुनाव लड़ने वाले उम्मीदवार श्री 
साधू राम , प्नाट न० ए० सी० 2, जयपुर , कलक्ट्रेट के सामने , 
बेनीपार्क , जयपुर, राजस्थान लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 1951 
तथा तद्धीन बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा यथा अपेक्षित अपने निर्वाचन 
व्ययों का कोई भी लेखा दाखिल करने में असफल रहे हैं । 

और, यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने , उसे सम्यक सूचनाएं दिये 
जाने पर भी , अपनी इस अमफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथवा 
स्पष्टीकरण नहीं दिया है और इस प्रायोग का यह समाधान हो 
गया है कि उस के पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथवा 
न्यायोचित्य नहीं है । 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10 - 2 के अनुसरण में 
निर्वाचन आयोग एतदद्वारा उक्त श्री साधू राम को संसद् के 
किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान सभा अथवा विधान 
परिषद् के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए इस आदेश की तारीख 
से तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निरहित घोषित करता है । 

[ सं० राज - लो० स० / 6 / 71 ] 


S . O . 3191 , - Whereas the Election Commission is sa 
tisfied that Shri P . Subbarayan , Mazhavarayanallur, 
Kumaragudy Post, Chidambaram Taluk , South Arcot 
Dist. Tamil Nadu , a contesting candidate for election to 
the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly from 60 
Bhuvanagiri assembly constituency , held in March , 
1971 has falled to lodge an account of his election 
expenses in the manner required by the Representa 
tion of the People Act , 1951, and the rules made there 
under ; 

And whereas, the sald candidate , even after the due 
notice has not given any reason or explanation for the 
Lailure and the Election Commission is satisfied that 
he has no good reason or justification for the failure ; 
___ Now , therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the 
said Act , the Election Commission hereby declares the 
said Shri P . Subbarayan to be disqualified for being 
chosen as , and for being , a member of either House 
of Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly or Legis 
lative Council of a State for a period of three years 
trom the date of this order . 

[ No . TN/ LA/ 60 / 71 ( 6) . ] 
का० प्रा० 3191. - - यतः,निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान 
Bो गया है कि तमिल नाडु विधान सभा के लिए मार्च, 1971 में 
हुए निर्वाचन के लिए 60 भुवनागिरि सभा निर्वाचन क्षेत्र से चुनाव 
लड़ने वाले उम्मीदवार श्री पी० सुब्बारायन , मजहावरानल्लर , कुमारा 
गडी पोस्ट , चिदम्बरम् तालुक , दक्षिण अर्कोट जिला , . तमिलनाडु , 
लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 1951 तथा तद्धीन बनाए गए 
नियमों द्वारा अपेक्षित रीति से अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों का लेखा 
दाखिल करने में असफल रहे हैं ; 

और , यतः, उक्त उम्मीदार ने उसे सम्यक सूचना दिए 
जाने पर भी प्रानो इस असफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथवा 
सप्टोकरण नहीं दिया है, तथा निर्वाचन आयोग का यह समाधान 
हो गया है कि उस के पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण 
या न्यायोचित्य नहीं है ; 

प्रस:, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10- क के अनुसरण में 
निर्वाचन आयोग एतद्द्वारा उक्त श्री पी० सुम्बारायन को संसद् के 
दोनों सदनों में से किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान 
सभा अथवा विधान परिषद् के सदस्य चुने जाने पोर होन के लिए , 
इस आदेश की तारीख से तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निरहित 
घोषित करता है । 

__ [सं० तमिलनाडु-वि० स०/ 60/ 71 ( 6) ] 
S . O . 3192 . - Whereas the Election Commission is sa 
tisfied that Shri V . Mohamad Shaik , Kanakkarappattu , 
Uthamasozhamangalam , Chidambaram Taluk , South 
Arcot Dist ., Tamil Nadu , a conteşting candidate for 
election to the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly from 
60 - Bhuvanagiri assembly constituency , held on 
March, 1971 has failed to lodge an account of his elec 
tion expenses in the manner as required by the Re 
presentation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules 
made thereunder ; 

And whereas , the said candidate, even after the due 
notice has not given any reason or explanation for the 
failure and the Election Commission 15 satisfied that 
he has no good reason or justification for the failure . 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the 
said Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the 
said Shri V . Mohamad Shaik to be disqualified for 
being chosen as, and for being, a member of elther 
House of Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART 11 -- 


4522 


or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this order . 


और यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार , ने , उसे सम्यक् सूचना दिए 
जाने पर भी अपनी इस असफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथवा 
स्पष्टीकरण नहीं दिया है ; तथा निर्वाचन आयोग का यह समाधान 
हो गया है कि उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण 
या न्यायोचित्य नहीं हैं ; 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10क के अनुसरण में 
निर्वाचन आयोग एतद्द्वारा उक्त श्री पी० पालनीयानडी को संसद् 
के दोनों सदनों में से किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान 
मभा अथवा विधान परिषद् के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए, 
इस आदेश की तारीख से तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निहित 
घोषित करता है । 

[ सं० तमिलनाडु /वि०स० / 163 / 7 ( 12) ] 
S . O . 3194. — Whereas the Election Commission is 
satisfied that Shri P . K . Ramasamy s / o Karuppan , 
Ponparappi , Jayankondarm Taluk, Tiruchirapalli Dis 
trict, a contesting candidate for election to the Tamil 
Nadu Legislative Assembly from 155 - Jayankondam 
assembly constituency held in March , 1971 has failed 
to lodge an account of his election expenses in the 
manner required by the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder ; 

And whereas the said candidate , even after the due 
notice has not given any reason or explanation for the 
failure and the Election Commission is satisfied that 
he has no good reason or justification for the failure. 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the 
said Art, the Election Commission hereby declares 
the said Shri P . K . Ramasamy to be disqualified for 
being chosen as , and for being, a member of either 
House of Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly 
or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 


का० प्रा० 3192. - --यत : निर्वाचन आयोग का 
समाधान हो गया है कि तमिलनाए विधानसभा के लिए 
मार्च, 1971 में हुए निर्वाचन के लिए 60 भुवनगिरि 
सभा निर्वाचन क्षेत्र से चुनाव लड़ने वाले उम्मीदवार 

श्री वी० माहम्मद शइक , कनकारापट्ट , उत्थ मसोजमंगलम् , 
चिदम्बरम तालुक जिला दक्षिण अर्काट , तमिलनाडु लोक प्रति 
निधित्व अधिनियम , 1951 तथा तद्धीन बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा 
अपेक्षित रीति से अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों का लेखा दाखिल करने में 
असफल रहे ; 
___ और यतः उक्त उम्मीदवार ने , उसे सम्यक् सूचना दिए जाने 
पर भी अपनी इस असफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टीकरण 
नहीं दिया है ; तथा निर्वाचन आयोग का यह समाधान हो गया है 
कि इसके पाम इम असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण या 
न्यायोचित्य नहीं हैं ; 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10- क के अनुसरण में 
निर्वाचन आयोग एतदद्वारा उक्त श्री वी० मोहम्मद शइक को 
संसद के दोनों सदनों में से किसी भी मदन के या किसी राज्य की 
विधान सभा अथवा विधान परिषद के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने 

के लिए , इस आदेश की तारीख से तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए 
निहित घोषित करता है । 

[ सं० तमिलनाडु/वि० स०/ 60/ 71 ( 7) ] 
New Delhi, the 13th September, 1972 
S . O . 3193 . -_ Whereas the Election Commission is satis 
fied that Shri P . Palaniandy , Krishnarayapuram P. O ., 
Kulittalai Taluk , Tiruchirappalli District, a contest 
ing candidate for election to the Tamil Nadu Legisla 
tive Assembly from 163 -Krishnarayapuram assembly 
constituency held in 1971 has failed to lodge an 
account of his election expenses as required by the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules 
made thereunder ; 

And whereas the said candidate, even after the due 
notice has not given any reason or explanation for the 
failure and the Election Commission is satisfied that 
he has no good reason or justification for the failure. 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the 
said Act , the Election Commission hereby declares the 
said Shri P . Palaniandy to be disqualified for being 
chosen as, and for being a member of either House 
of Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly or 
Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this order , 

INo. TN/ LA / 163 / 71 ( 12 ) . ] 
नई दिल्ली 13 सितम्बर , 1972 
का० प्रा० 3193. - - यत :, निर्वाचन अायोग का समाधान 
हो गया है कि तमिलनाडु विधान सभा के लिए मार्च, 1970 में 
हुए साधारण निर्वाचन के लिए 16 3 कृष्णारायपुरम सभा निर्वाचन 
क्षेत्र से चुनाव लड़ने वाले उम्मीदवार श्री पी० पालनीयनडी, पो० 
प्रा० कृष्णागयपुरम , कुलित्तालई तालुक , निचुरापाली जिला 
लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 1951 तथा तद्धीन बनाए गए 
नियमों द्वारा यथा अपेक्षित अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों का कोई भी 
लेखा दाखिल करने में असफल रहे हैं ; 


[ No. TN/ LA/ 155 / 71 ( 13 ) . ] 
का० प्रा० 3194. -- यतः, निर्वाचन आयोग का 
समाधान हो गया है कि मार्च, 1971 में हए , तमिलनाडु 
विधान सभा के निर्वाचन के लिए 155, जायनकोंडम सभा 
निर्वाचन क्षेत्र से चुनाव लड़ने वाले उम्मीदवार श्री 
पी० के० रामास्वामी सुपुत्र करप्पन , पोनपाप्पी , जायनकोडम 
तालुक तिरुचिरापल्ली जिला , लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 
1951 तथा तद्धीन बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा अपेक्षित रीति से 
अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों का लेखा दाखिल करने में असफल रहे हैं ; 

और, यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने , उसे सम्यक सूचना दिये 
जाने पर भी , अपनी इस अमफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथवा 
स्पष्टीकरण नहीं दिया है तथा निर्वाचन आयोग का यह समाधान 
हो गया है कि उनके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण 
अथवा न्यायोचित्य नहीं है । 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10- क के अनुसरण में 
निर्वाचन आयोग एनवाग उक्त श्री पी० के ० रामास्वामी को 
संसद के किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान सभा अथवा 
विधान परिषद के सदस्य चने जाने और होने के लिए इस आदेश 
की तारीख से तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निहित घोषित 
करता है । 

[ म० तमिलनाडु /वि० स०/ 15 5/ 71 ( 1 3) ] 


S5c. 3( i ), 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4523 


भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान सभा अथवा विधान परिषद 
के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए इस आदेश की तारीख से तीन 
वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निरहित घोषित करता है । 


New Delhi, the 15th September 1972 
S . 0 . 3195 . -- Whereas the Election Commission is satis 
fied that Shri Nagarajan, 35. Kalianmankoil Street . 
Mela Thiruppanthurithi, Thanjavur Taluk , Than 
javur District , Tamil Nadu , a contesting candidate 
for election to the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly 
from 169-- Thiruvaiyaru assembly constituency , held 
in March , 1971 has failed to lodge an account of his 
election expenses as required by the Representation 
of the People Act, 1951. and the Rules made there 
-inder ; 

And whercas, the said candidate even after the duc 
notice has not given my reason or explanation for 
the failure and the Election Commission is satisfied 
that he has no good reason or justification for the 
failure . 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the 
gaid Act , the Election Commission hereby declares the 
said Shri Nagarajan to be disqualified for being 
chosen as, and for being a member of either Holso 
of Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly or Legis 
Tative Council of a State for a period ot three years 
from the datr of this order. 


[ गं० तमिलनाडु-वि०स०/ 169 / 71 ( 14) ] 

आदेश से , 
ए० एन० सैन, सचिव । 


[ No . TN/ LA / 169 / 71 ( (14) . ] 

By order , 

A. N. SEN, Secy . 
नई दिल्ली , 15 सितम्बर , 1972 
का० प्रा० 3195 -- ~ यत :निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो 
गया है कि मार्च, 1971 में हुए तमिलनाडु के निर्वाचन के लिए 169 
थिम्ययारुनिर्वाचन क्षेत्र में चुनाव लड़ने वाले उम्मीदवार श्री नागरंजन , 
35 कालियामनकोअल गली , मेला थिरुप्पथरीथी, थंजावत तालक, 
थंजावुर जिला , नगिलनाड, लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 1951 
तथा तद्धीन बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा यथा अपेक्षित अपने निर्वाचन 
व्ययों का कोई भी लेना दाखिल करने में असफल रहे है । 

और , यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने , उसे सम्यक् सूचना दिये जाने 
पर भी , अपनी इस असफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टीकरण 
नहीं दिया है , तथा निर्वाचन पायोग का यह समाधान हो गया है 
कि उसके पाम इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण या 
न्यायोचित्य नहीं है ; 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10क के अनुसरण में 
निर्वाचन आयोग एतद्द्वारा उक्त श्री नागरंजन को संसद के किसी 


MINISTRY OF IIEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING 

(Department of Health ) 

New Delhi, the 17th May 1972 
S . O . 3196 .- - In cxcrcise of the powers conferred by 
the proviso to article 309 of the Constitution , the Pre 
sident hereby makes the following rules regulating 
the method of recruitment of persons to Class IV posts 
in the Central Rescarch Institute , Kasauli , namely : 

1. Short title and commencement. - ( 1 ) These rules 
may be called the Central Research Institute , Kasauli 
( Class IV posts ) Recruitment Rules, 1972. 

( 2 ) They shall comc into force on the date of their 
publication in the official gazette . 

2. Application. These rules shall apply to the posts 
specified in column 2 of the schedule below rules 6 
of these rules . 

3 . Number , classification and scale of pay. - The 
number of the said posts , their classification and the 
scales of pay attached thereto shall be as specified 
in columns 3 to 5 of the said Schedule . 

4 . Method of Recruitment, age limit and other quall 
fications. The method of recruitment to the said 
posts, age limit , qualifications and other matters con 
nected therewith shall be as speciñed in columns 6 to 
14 of the Schedule atoresaid ; 

Provided that the upper age limit prescribed for 
direct recruitment may be relaxed in the case of candi 
dates bclonging to the Scheduled Castes and Schedul 
ed Tribes and other special categories of persong in 
accordance with the general order s issued by the 
Central Government from time to time, 
5 . Disqualifications.-- No person . 
( a ) who has entered into or contracted a mar 

riage with a person having a spouse living, or 
( b ) who, having a spouse living , has entered into 

or contracted a marriage with any person , 
shall be cligible for appointment to the sali 
posts: 


4524 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIR : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II- - 


Provided that the Central Governmentmay , if satisfied that such marriage is permissible under the personal law applicable to 
such person and the other party to the marriag and there are other grounds for so doing , exempt any person from the operation of the 
r ule . 

6 . Saving Nothing in these rules shall affect recruitments and other concessions required to be provided for Scheduled Castes 
and Scheduled Tribes and other special categories of persons in accordance with the orders issued by the Central Government from time 
to time in this regard . 


SCHEDULE 


Serial 
No. 


Name of the post 


No , of 
posts 


Classification 


Scale of pay 


(2 ) 


(3 ) 


(4 ) 


( 3 


) 


Rs.85 - 2 - 95 - 3 - 110 


1. Tin Smith . . 
2 . Farrier 
3 . Head Chowkidar 
4 . Head Sweeper 


Ceneral CentralServices Class 
IV , Non -Ministerial. 

Do . 
Do, 


Rs.75 - 1- 85 -EB -2 - 95 

Do . 
Do . 


Do. 


Whether Selection Post or nonselection post. 


(7 ) 


Not applicable 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Age for Educational and other qualifica - Whether age and educational 
direct tions required for direct 

qualification prescribed for direct 
recruits recruits . 

recruits will apply in the case of 

promotees. 
(8 ) 

( 9 ) 
. 25 yrs . (i) L rate. 

Not applicable. 
( ii ) 2 years experience of Tin 

Sinith s work . 
Ꭰo . 

(i) Literate . 
(ii) 3 years experience of Farrier s 

work . 
. Not appli- Not applicable . 

Not applicable. 
cable . 
. Do. 


Not applicable 


Do. 


Non -Selection 
Non - Selection 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


Do . 


Ꭰo 


Period of probation 

if any 


Method of recruitment In case ofrecruitment by If D . P . C . exists , what is Circumstances in which 
whether by direct recruit promotion /transfer grades its composition . 

U . P . S . C . is to be consulted 
or by promotion or by de - from which promotion / 

in making recruitment. 
putation / transfer and per - deputation / transfer to be 
centage of the vacancies to made . 
be filled by variousmethods 


( 10 ) 


( 11 ) 


(12 ) 


(13) 


( 14 ) 


2 years 


Not applicable . 


Do . 


Do. 


Do. 


Do . 


100 % by direct recruitment Not applicable . 

Not applicable. 
Do 

Do . 

Do , 
100 % by promotion Chowkidar of the Insti- Class IV D . P . C . 

tute with 3 years ser 

vice . 
Do . 

Sweepers or Conservancy Do. . 

sweepers of the Insti 
tute with 3 years ser 
vice . 


Do . 


Do. 


[No . F . 19-57 /71-MA.] 
स्वास्थय और परिवार नियोजन मंत्रालय 

स्वास्थ्य विभाग 

af facant , 17 €, 1972 
एस० प्रो० 3196. - सविधान के अनुच्छेद 309 के परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए राष्ट्रपति एतद्वारा केन्द्रीय अनुसंधान 
संस्थान , कसौली के श्रेणी - 4 के पदों पर भर्ती की विधि को विनियमित करने के लिए निम्नलिखित नियम बनाते हैं , अर्थात : 

1 . # faca TV: TT ATTE :- - ( 1 ) o fata IT RETT FETT, it ( foſt - 496 ) af fagarat, 1972 
कहलवे जा सकेंगे । 

( 2) ये भारत सरकार के राजपत्र में प्रकाशन होने की तिथि से लागू होंगे । 


SEC . 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 20, 189.4 


4525 


2. उपयोजन : -- ये नियम इन नियमों के नियम 6 के नीचे संलग्न अनुसूची के स्तम्भ 2 में निर्दिष्ट पदों पर ला 


3. संख्या,वर्गीकरण तथा वेतनमान : - - पदों की संख्या उनका वर्गीकरण तथा वेतनमान वही होगें जैसा कि उक्त अनुसूची के स्तम्भ 3 से 5 
में निर्दिष्ट हैं । 

4. भर्ती की विधि , आयु सीमा, अर्हताएं आदि : -- उक्त पदों पर भर्ती की विधि , प्रायु सीमा अर्हताएं तथा अन्य वातें वही हांगी जैसा कि उक्त 
अनुसूची के स्तम्भ 6 से 14 में निर्दिष्ट है । 

परन्तु केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा समय-समय पर जारी किये गये सामान्य प्रदेशों के अनुमार अनुसूचित जाति/ अनुसूचित जन जाति तथा अन्य 
विशेष प्रवर्गों के अन्य व्यक्तियों के मामले में सीधी भर्ती के लिएनिर्धारित अधिकतम प्रायु सीमा शिथिल की जा सकती है । 


5 . अनर्हता : कोई भी व्यक्ति : ( क ) जो किसी ऐसे व्यक्ति से विवाह करता /करती है अथवा विवाह की संविदा करता /करती है 
जिसका की पति या जिसकी पत्नी जीवित हो , अथवा 

( ख ) जो व्यक्ति एक पति / एक पत्नी के जिवित रहते हुए किसी व्यक्ति के साथ विवाह करता /करती है अथवा विवाह की संविदा 
करता/ करती है, 

सेवा में नियुक्ति का पात्र नहीं होगा । 


परन्तु केन्द्रीय सरकार यह समाधान होने पर कि ऐसा विवाह ऐसे व्यक्ति औरविवाह के दूसरे पक्षकार पर लागू होने वाली विधि के अधीन 
अनुज्ञेय है, और ऐसा करने के अन्य प्राधार हैं , किसी भी व्यक्ति को इम नियम के प्रवर्तन से छूट दे सकती है । 


6. अपवाद : -- इस संबंध में केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा समय - समय पर जारी किये गये आदेशों के अनुसार अनुसूचित जाति /अनुचित जन जाति 
तथा अन्य विशेष वर्गों के व्यक्तियों के लिए जिन आरक्षणों और अन्य रियायतों की व्यवस्था करना अपेक्षित है उन पर इन नियमों में निहित किसी 
बात का प्रभाव नहीं पड़ेगा । 


अनुसची 


पद का नाम 


वर्गीकरण 


वेतनमान 


पदों 
की 
संख्या 


पद सलेक्शन है मीधी भर्ती के लिए सीधी भर्ती के लिए 
अथवा नानमक- आयु सीमा अपेक्षित पक्षिक तथा 

अन्य अर्हताएं 


1. टोनकार 


85 - 2 - 95-- 3 - 110 रु० 


लाग नहीं होना 


25 वर्ष 


2 मामान्य केन्द्रीय 

मेवा श्रेणी - 3 
अननुसचिवीय 


(i ) साक्षर 
(ii ) टीनकार के कार्य 
का 2 वर्ष का अनुभव 


2. नाल बांधने 

घाला 


1 


लदैव 


75 - 1- 85 - ६० रो० 2- 95 नदेव 


तदैव 


रु० 


( i ) साक्षर 
( ii ) नाल बांधने के 
कार्य का 3 वर्ष का 
अनुभव 


3. प्रधान 

चौकीदार 


1 तदैव 


तदैव 


नान सलैक्शन 


लागू नहीं होता 


लागू नहीं होता 


1 


तदेव 


तदेव 


तवैव 


तदेव 


4. प्रधान सफाई 

कर्मचारी 


तदैव 


तदैव 


तदेव 


+ 


4526 


TUE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II 


- - - 


- - -- 


क्या पदोन्नति से रखे जाने परिवीक्षा की भर्ती का तरीका सीधी पदोन्नति प्रतिनियुक्ति यदि विभागीय पदोसति परिस्थितियां जिनमें 
वाले उम्मीदवारों के अवधि यदि भर्ती द्वारा या पदोन्नति स्थानान्तरण के द्वारा भर्ती के समिति है तो उसका क्या भर्ती के लिए 
मामले में प्रत्यक्ष भर्ती कोई हो । के द्वारा अथवा स्थाना - मामले में वह ग्रेड जिससे पदो- गठन है । 

संघीय लोक सेवा 
किए जाने वाले व्यक्तियों ) न्तरण के द्वारा तथा प्रति प्रतिनिय फ्नि स्थानान्तरण 

श्रायोग से परामर्ण 
के लिए निर्धारित आयु विभिन्न तरीको द्वारा किया जाना है । 

लिया जाता है । 
और शैक्षिक अर्हताए 

भरे जाने वाले पदों की 
लागू होंगी । 

प्रतिशतता । 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


नदेव 


तदेव 


- - 


- 


- 


10 

11 

12 

13 

. . . . . - - .. . - . . - . - - . - - 
1. लागू नहीं होता व शत प्रतिशत मीधी लागू नहीं होता लागू नहीं होता लागू नहीं होता 

भर्तीद्वारा 
2. तदेव 

तदेव 

तदेव तदैव 

तदेव 
3. लागू नहीं होता नदेव शत पतिशत पदोन्नति इम संस्थान के तीन गाल श्रेणी- 4 

तदैव 
द्वारा 

की सेवा वाले चौकी - विभागीय पदोन्नति 

दारों को पदोन्नति देकर समिति 
4 . तदैव तदेव इस संस्थान के सफाई तदव 

सदैव 
किर्मचारियों को पदो 
न त देकर बशर्ते कि 

उन्होंने तीन साल की 
रोया पूरी करली हो । 
- -- . - - - - - - - - - - 

[ सं० प० 19 - 57/ 71 - एम० ई . ] 

गती बालकाण , अवर मचिव । 
New Delhi, the 7th October 1972 

President hereby makes the following rules further 

to amend the Central research Institute , Kasauli ( Fac 
S . O . 3197 . - In exercise of the powers conferred 

tory Manager ) Recruitment Rules, 1965 , namely : — 
by the proviso to article 309 of the Constitution, 
the President hcreby makes the following rules fur 

___ 1. Short title and commencement. - ( 1 ) These rules 
ther to amend the Central Research Institute, 

may be called the Central Research Institute, 
Kasauli, (Deputy Assistant Director ) Recruitment 

Kasauli ( Factory Manager ) Recruitment ( Amend 
Rules, 1967 , namely : 

ment ) Rules, 1972. 
1 . Short title and commencement . - ( 1 ) These rules 

( 2 ) They sliall come into force on the date of thcir 
may be called the Central Research Institute, Kasauli 

publication in the Omcial Gazette , 
( Deputy Assistant Director ) Recruitment ( Amend 
ment) Rules , 1972 . 

2 . Amendment of the Rule . In the Central Research 
( 2 ) They shall come into force on the date of 

Institute Kasauli (Factory Manager ) Recruitment 
their publication in the Official Gazette . 

Rules , 1965 , for rule 5 relating to the disqualification 

clause, the following rule shall be substituteti , 
2. Amendment of the Rules.- - In the Central Research 

namely: 
Institute, Kasauli ( Deputy Assistant Director ) Re 
cruitment Rules , 1967, for rule 5 relating to the dis 

" 5 - Disqualification : — No person , - 
qualification clause , the following rule shall be sub 

( a ) who has entered into or contracted a 
stituted , namely : - - 

marriage with a person having a spousc liv 
" 5. Disqrraigention.: -- No person, 

ing, or 
( a ) who has entered into or contracted a mar 

( b ) who , hoving a spouse living , has entered in 
riage with a person having a spouse living, 

to or contracted a marriage with any per 
or 

son , shall be eligible for appointment to the 

above post : 
( b ) who , having a spouse living , has entered 
into or contracted a marriage with any per 

Provided that the Central Government may , if 
son , shall be eligible for appointment to the 

satisficd that such marriage is permisible under 
above post; 

the personal Law applicable to such person and the 

other party to the marriage and that there are other 
Provided that the Central Government may, if 

grounds for so doing. cxempt any person from the 
satisfied that such marriage is permissiblc under the 

operation of this rule " . 
personal Law applicable to such person and the other 

INo. F . 19 - 30 /71 - MA. ] 
party to the marriage and that there are other 
grounds for so doing, exempt any person from the 
operation of this rule . " 

[ No. F . 19- 30 / 71- MA. ] 

S . O . 31973 , - In exercise of the powers conferred 

by the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution, the 
S . O . 3197A .- - In exercise of the powers conferred President hereby makes the following rules further 

to amend the Central Research Institute, Kasauli, 
hy the proviso to article 309 of the Constitution, the 


S5c. 3 ( ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1864 


4527 


Assistant Director (Non -Medical) Recruitment Rules , 
1968, namely : 

1. Short title and commencement ( 1 ) These rules 
may be called the Central Research Institute , Kasau 
li, Assistant Director (Non -Medical) Recruitment 
( Amendment ) Rules . 1972. 

(2 ) They shall come into force on the date of their 
publication in the Official Gazette . 

2 . Amendment of the Rule .- - In the Central Re 
search Institute . Kasauli, Assistant Director (Non 
Medical ) Recruitment Rules, 1968, for rule 5 relat 
ing to the disqualification clause , the following rule 
shall be substituted , namely : 

“ 5 . Disqualification : - No person , 
( a ) who has entered into or contracted a mar 

riage with a person having a spouse living, 


te 4 : 347 afaftuh ETT 3 347 39- 8377 ( 1) 
के उपबन्धों का अनुसरण करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा 
भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व स्वास्थ्य मंत्रालय के 9 जनवरी, 1960 
oft E FT FETT 5 - 13/59 - 5H - I # ATT ATT Ffafafaa 
# 91797 percit ; TACT :- - 
341 gaat À " ERT 347 37811 ( 1) Aug ( * ) 

में मनोनीत " शीर्ष के अन्तर्गत क्रम संख्या 3 की प्रविष्टि 
के लिए निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टि रख ली जाए, नामतः 
" STO OFO ATTTHA , 
स्वास्थ्य सेवा के निदेशक , 
केरल , त्रिवेन्द्रम " 
[FETT na ato 11013/1/72– 1C# o af osto] 

प्रकाश चन्द्र अरोरा , अवर सचिव , । 


or 


(b ) who , having a spouse living, has entered 

into or contracted a marriage with any person 
shall be eligible for appointment to the above 

post : 
Provided that the Central Government may , if 
satisfied that such marriage is permissible under the 
personal Law applicable to such person and the other 
party to the marriage and that there are other 
orounds for so doing, exempt any person from the 
operation of this rule " . 

[No, F . 19 - 30 / 71 -MA. ] 
SATHI BALAKRISHNA , Under Secy . 


. (Department of Health ) 

New Delhi, the 4th August 1972 
S . O . 3198 .. Whereas the Central Government have 
in pursuance of the provisions of clause ( a ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 3 of the Indian Medical Council 
Act, 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) , and in consultation with the 
Government of Kerala , nominated Dr K . Balaraman . 
Director of Health Services . Kerala , to be a member 
of the Medical Council of India to represent the State 
of Kerala with effect from the 14th June, 1972 vice 
Dr. T. V . Sundareswaran resigned ; 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of 
sub - section ( 1 ) of section 3 of the said Act , the Cen 
tral Government hereby makes the following further 
amendment in the notification of the Government of 
India in the late Ministry of Health No. 5 - 13 /59-MI, 
dated the 9th January , 1960, namely : 

In the said notification , under the heading “ Nomi 
nated under clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
3 " , for the entry against serial No. 3 , the following 
entry shall be substituted , namely : 
“ Dr. K . Balaraman , Director of Health Services , 
Kerala , Trivandrum ." 

[ No . V . 11013 / 1/ 72 -MPT.] 
P . C . ARORA , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Expenditure ) 

New Delhi, the 24th July 1972 
S . O . 3199. - - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the proviso to article 309 and clause ( 5 ) of article 148 
of the Constitution and of all other powers enabling 
him in this behalf , and after consultation with the 
Comptroller and Auditor General of India in respect 
of persons serving in the Indian Audit and Accounts 
Department, the President hereby makes the follow 
ing rules further to amend the Contributory Provident 
Fund Rules ( India ), 1962 , namely : 

1. ( 1 ) These rules may be called the Contributory 
Provident Fund ( India ) 2nd Amendment Rules , 1972 . 

( 2 ) They shall come into force on the date of their 
publication in the Official Gazette . 

2 . In rule 16 of the Contributory Provident Fund 
Rules ( India ), 1962 for Sub - rule ( 2 ) the following sub 
rule shall be substituted , namely : 
“ ( 2 ) Whenever a subscriber is in a position to sa 

tisfy the competent authority about the 
amount standing to his credit in the Contri 
butory Provident Fund account with refer 
ence to the latest available statement of Con 
tributory Provident Fund account together 
with the evidence of subsequent contribution , 
the competent authority may itself sanction 
withdrawal within the prescribed limits , as 
in the case of a refundable advance . In doing 
so , the competent authority shall take into ac 
count any withdrawal or refundable advance 
already sanctioned by it in favour of the sub 
scriber . Where, however , the subscriber is 
not in a position to satisfy the competent au 
thority about the amount standing to his cre 
dit or where there is any doubt about the ad 
missibility of the withdrawal applied for , a 
reference may be made to the Account Offi 
cer by the competent authority for ascertain 
ing the amount standing to the credit of the 
subscriber with a view to enable the compe 
tent authority to determine the admissibility 
of the amount of the withdrawal. The sanc 
tion for the withdrawal should prominently 
indicate the Contributory Provident Fund Ac 
count Number and the Account Officer main 
taining the accounts and a copy of the sanc 
tion should invariably be endorsed to the AC 
count Officer. The sanctioning authority shal) 
be responsible to ensure that an acknowledg 
ment is obtained from the Account Officer 
that the sanction for withdrawal has been 


(Fale a farta ) 

T facit , 4 ET, 1972 
CHO 9103198 _ _ TT : anty forchett ofruar 
afafana , 1956 ( 1956 97 102 ) 4T ETTET 397 39 -ETTI 
( 1 ) के खण्ड ( क ) के उपबन्धों का अनुसरण करते हुए केन्द्रीय 
सरकार ने केरल सरकार के परामर्श से डा ० के ० बालरामन , स्वास्थ्य 
hat farage ,et 87 14 TT 1972 # STO ito ato 
सुन्दरेस्वर्ण जिन्होंने त्यागपत्र दे दिया , के स्थान पर भारतीय चिकित्सा 
परिषद् का सदस्य मनोनीत किया है । 


4528 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[PART II 


noted in the ledger account of the subscriber. 
In case the Account Officer reports that the 
withdrawal as sanctioned is in excess of the 
amount to the credit of the subscriber or 
otherwise inadmissible , the sum withdrawn 
by the subscriber shall forthwith be repaid 
in one lumpsum together with interest there 
on at the rate determined under rule 12 by 
the subscriber to the fund and in default of 
S .,. . * * - 4 . : shall be ordered by the 

" " i .. . : to be recovered from 
his emoluments either in a lump sum or in 
such number of monthly instalments , as may 
be determined by the President." 

[No. 2 (62 ) (ii) - E . V . (B ) / 71. ) 
S . O . 3199AIn exercise of the powers conferred 
by the proviso to article 309 and clause ( 5 ) of article 148 
of the Constitution and of all other powers enabling 
him in this behalf, and after consultation with the 
Comptroller & Auditor General of India in respect of 
Dersons serving in the Indian Audit and Accounts 
Department, the President hereby makes the follow 
ing rules further to amend the General Provident 
Fund (Central Services) Rules, 1960 namely : 


in sucsh number of omnthly instalments as 
may be determined by the President" . 

[No. 2 (62) ( ii )- E .V .( B )/ 71.] 
New Delhi, the 5th August 1972 
S . O . 3200 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the proviso to article 309 and clause (5 ) of article 148 
of the Constitution , and of all other powers enabling 
him in this behalf and after consultation with the Com 
ptroller and Auditor -General in relation to persons 
serving in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, 
the President hereby makes the following rules further 
to amend the General Provident Fund (Central Ser 
vices ) Rules, 1960, namely : 

1. ( 1 ) These rules may be called the General Provi 
dent Fund (Central Services) Fifth Amendment Rules, 
1972 . 

(2 ) They shall come into force on the date of their 
publication in the Official Gazette . 


Rules, 1960 , in the proviso to sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 16 . 
for the words " five years pay " , the figures and words 
" 75 times the monthly pay " shall be substituted . 

[No. F .13 ( 1) -EV ( B ) / 72 -GPF .] 


1. ( 1 ) These rules may be called the General Pro 
vident Fund (Central Services ) 3rd Amendment 
Rules, 1972, 


publication in the Official Gazette. 


New Delhi, the 8th August 1972 
S . O , 3200A .- In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the proviso to article 309 and clause (5 ) of article 148 
of the Constitution , and of all other powers enabling 
him in this behalf, the President, after consultation with 
the Comptroller and Auditor -General of India in res 
pect of persons serving in the Indian Audit and 
Accounts Department, hereby makes the following rules 
further to amend the General Provident Fund (Cen 
tral Services ) Rules, 1960, namely : 

1 . ( 1 ) These rules may be called the General Provi 
dent Fund (Central Services ) Sixth Amendment Rules , 
1972 . 

(2 ) They shall come in force on the date of their 
publication in the Official Gazette . 

2 . In the General Provident Fund ( Central Services ) 
Rules, 1960 , in sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 15 , after clause ( f ) 
and before the Note , the following clause shall be in 
serted , namely : 
“ ( g ) For acquiring a farm land or business 

premises or both within six months before the 
date of the subscriber s retirement" , 

[No. 33 (19 ) - E .V . (B ) / 70 -GPF. ] 


2 . In rule 15 of the General Provident Fund (Central 
Services ) Rules, 1960 , for sub - rule ( 2 ), the following 
sub - rule shall be substituted , namely :-- 
“ ( 2 ) Whenever a subscriber is in a position to 

satisfy the competent authority about the 
amount standing to his credit in the General 
Provident Fund account with reference to the 
latest available statement of General Provident 
Fund Account together with the evidence of 
subsiquent contribution , the competent autho 
rity may itself sanction withdrawal within the 
prescribed limits , as in the case of a 
refundable advance. In doing so , the com 
petent authority shall take into account any 
withdrawal or refundable advance already 
sanctioned by it in favour of the subscriber. 
Where , however, the subscriber is not in a 
position to satisfy the competent authority 
about the amountt standing to his credit ris 
where there is any doubt about the admissi 
bility of the withdrawali applied for, a refer 
ence may be made to the Account Officer by 
the competent authority for ascertaining the 
amount standing to the credit of the subscriber 
with a view to enable the competent authority 
to determine the admissibility of the amount 
of withdrawa] The sanction for the with 
drawal should prominently indicate the Gene 
ral Provident Fund Account Number and the 
Account Officer maintaining the accounts and 
a copy of the sanction for withdrawal should 
invariably be endorsed to that Accounts Officer. 
The sanctioning authority shall be responsible 
to ensure that an acknowledgement is obtain 
ed from the Account Officer that the sanction 
for withdrawal has been noted in the ledger 
account of the subscriber. In case the Account 
Officer renorts that the withdrawal ag sanc . 
tioned is in excess of the amount to the credit 
of the subscriber or otherwise inadmissible the 
sum withdrawn by the subscriber shall forth 
with be repaid in one lump sum together with 
interest thereon at the rate determined under 
rule 11, by the subscriber to the fund and in 
default of such repayment. it shall be ordered 
by the sanctioning authority to be recovered 
from his emoluments either in a lump sum or 


S . O , 3200B . - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the proviso to article 309 and clause ( 5 ) of article 148 
of the Constitution , and of all other powers enabling 
him in this behalf, the President, after consultation 
with the Comptroller and Auditor -General of India in 
respect of persons serving in the Indian Audit and 
Accounts Department, hereby makes the following rules 
further to amend the Contributory Provident Fund 
Rules ( India ) , 1962 namely :- - 

1 . ( 2 ) These rules may be called the Contributory 
Provident Fund ( India ) Fifth Amendment Rules, 1972 . 

( 2 ) They shall come into force on the date of their 
publication in the Official Gazette . 

2 . In the Contributory Provident Fund Rules ( India ) , 


before the Note, the following clause shall be inserted . 
namely : 
" ( g ) For acquiring a farmland or business premises 

or both within six months before the date of 
the subscriber s retirement” . 

[ No. 33 ( 19 )- E . V . / 70 -GPF. ] 


SSc . 3 (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4529 


m 


. 


ww 


- 


This notification shall come into force with effect 
from 17th July , 1972 . 

[No. 1380F . No. 404 |255172- ITCC. ] 

वित मंत्रालय 
( C15FT gic atat faHTT ) 

आयकर 
the farsit, 14 a 1972 
JITO O 320 2 .- - 4771 afefta , 1961 
( 1961 T 43 ) I ETT 2 di gus (44 ) 
उपखन्ड ( iii ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 

, First 77 % Fat Thootit , go to 
सभरवाल और जे ०सी०ढीगरा को जो केन्द्रीय सरकार के राजपत्रित 
अधिकारी हैं , उक्त अधिनियम के अधीन कर वसूली अधिकारियों 
की शक्तियो का प्रयोग करन के लिए, एतद्द्वारा प्राधिकृत करती 


CORRIGENDA 
New Delhi, the 3rd August 1972 
S . O . 3201. In the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Ex 
penditure ) No . S . O . 934 , dated the 1st March , 1972 , 
published at pages 1397 to 1443 of the Gazette of India , 
Part II, Section 3 , Sub - section ( ii) , dated the 1st April, 
1972 : 
( 1 ) at page 1400 , in the Explanation to clause ( a ) 

of sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 10 , for " For the pur 
poses of this clause" , read " For the purposes 

of this clause , the expression " ; 
(2 ) at page 1402 , in rule 19, 
( i) in clause ( a ) of sub - rule ( 3 ) , for " pension , 

bonus or gratuity ” , read “ pension or gra 

tuity " ; 
( ii) in sub -rule ( 4 ) , for " pension , bonus or gra 

tuity ,” , read “ pension or gratuity ,” ; 
( 3 ) at page 1403 , in clause ( c ) of sub - rule ( 1 ) of 

rule 27 , for " on where the Government” , read 

" or where the Government" ; 
( 4 ) at page 1407, in sub - rule ( 4 ) of rule 46 , for 

" sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 30 of these rules, " , read 

" sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 30 " ; 
( 5 ) at page 1410 , in sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 51, for 

" sub - rule (i ) of rule 50” , read " sub - rule ( 1 ) 

of rule 50 " ; 
(6 ) at page 1412, in clause ( b ) of sub - rule ( 11) of 

rule 54 , for " family pension " , read “ family 
pensions” ; 
at page 1414 , in sub - rule ( 1) of rule 60 , for 

" substantially ” read “ substantively ; 
(8 ) at page 1415 , in sub - rule ( 1) of rule 61, for 

" on account of clerical error subsequently : " , 
read “ on account of detection of clerical error 

subsequently :" : 
( 9 ) at page 1422 , in rule 82 , for " 80" , read " 81 ; 
( 10 ) at page 1427, in Form - 5 , in the heading, for 

" 82 ( 1 )” read " 83 ( 1 )" ; 
( 11 ) at page 1430 , in item 1 of Section I of Part III 

of Form - 7 , for " disallowance if any other then 
disallowance indicated in Part II of this Form " , 
read " disallowance , if any , (other than dis 

allowance indicated in Part II of this Form " ) ; 
( 12 ) at page 1436 , in paragraph 2 of Form - 15 , for 

" enclosed Form 17 ." , read “ the enclosed Form 

17." ; 
( 13 ) in Form 18 , 
( i) at page 1438 , in item 15 of Part I, for " Civil 

Services ", read " Central Civil Services” ; 
( ii) at page 1439, in item 1 ( 4 ) of Part III , for 

“ Special” , read " Specific" ; 
( 14 ) at page 1441, in the first paragraph of Form 
20 , for " his " read “ his /her " . 

[No . 6 (8 )-EV ( A ) 172.] 
S . S . L . MALHOTRA , Under Secy . 


Fafaqat 17 Park , 1972 À saa toitu 
[ro 138 /4.7 0 /# 0 404/ 255/ 72– 975 o CT oRoto ] 

New Delhi, the 17th July 1972 
S . O . 3203 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - clause ( iii ) of clause ( 44 ) of Section 2 of the 
Income- tax Act, 1961 ( 43 of 1961 ) the Central Govern 
ment hereby authorises Shri S . N . Joshi who is a 
Gazetted Officer of the Central Government to exercise 
the powers of a Tax Recovery Officer under the said 
Act . 

2 . This notification shall come into force with im 
mediate effect . 

[ No . 141 ( F . No . 404 / 194 / 72 -ITCC . ] 

A . K . NASTA , Under Secy 
is facrit , 17 791 , 1972 
FTO TO 3203.- - 1477 ufafaga 1961 
( 1961 FT 43) 47 8171 2 que ( 44 ) 
उप - खण्ड (iii) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार श्री एस ० एच ० जोशी को , जो केन्द्रीय सरकार 
के राजपत्रित अधिकारी हैं , उक्त अधिनियम के अधीन कर वसूली 
अधिकारी की शक्तियों का प्रयोग करने के लिए एतदद्वारा प्राधिकृत 
Titel 

यह अधिसूचना तत्काल प्रभावित होगी । 
[Fo 141/47 0 B 0 404 / 194 725 oct oft orto ] 

TOO TEAT, 997 91777 1 
(Department of Revenue and Insurance ) 

INCOME- TAX 
New Delhi, the 18th July 1972 
S . O . 3204 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub -section ( 2 ) ( b ) of Section 80G of the Income- tax 
Act, 1961 ( 53 of 1961) , the Central Government hereby 
notifies Shri Ram Temple , Chaphal, Distt . Satara 
( Maharashtra ) to be of historic importance and a place 
of public worship of renown throughout the Maha 
rashtra State for the purposes of the said section . 

[ No. 143 ( F . No . 176 / 38 / 72 - IT (AI) . ] 

B . MADHHAVAN , Under Secy . 


( Department of Revenue and Insurance ) 

INCOME- TAX 
New Delhi, the 14th July 1970 
S .O . 3202 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - clause ( iii ) of clause (44 ) of section 2 of the 
Income tax Act . 1961 (43 of 1961) the Central Gov 
ernment hereby authorises SVShri S . K . Soni, S . K . 
Sabharwal and J . C . Dhingra who are Gazttted Officers 
of the Central Government, to exercise the powers of 
Tax Reconery Officers under the said Act. 


4530 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II 


CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECT TAXES 


INCOME- TAX 


New Delhi, the 22nd March 1972 


( रराजस्व और बोमा विभाग ) 

___ ( पाय -कर ) 

नई दिल्ली , 18 जुलाई 1972 
का० श्रा0 320 4....- प्रायकर अधिनियम, 1961 ( 1961 
का 43 ) की धारा 805 की उपधारा ( 2 ) ( ख ) द्वारा प्रदस्त 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार श्री राम मन्दिर , 
चाफल , जिला सताग ( महाराष्ट्र ) को उक्त धारा के प्रयोजनों 
के लिए एतिहासिक महत्व का तथा सम्पूर्ण महाराष्ट्र में सार्वजनिक 
पूजा का प्रख्यात स्थान एतद्वारा प्रधिमूचित करती है । 
[मं0 143/ फा ० सं ० 176/ 38/ 72- पाई टी ( ए ० प्राई ) ] 

बी० माधयन , अवर सचिव । 


S . O , 3205 .. --In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 126 of the Income -tax Act, 1961 ( 43 of 1961 ) , 
the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby makes the 
following addition to the Schedule annexed to its 
Notificatlon No. 1 ( F . No. 55 / 233 / 63-IT ) , dated 18th 
May , 1964 . 


2 . In the said Schedule the following items shall be 
added below the existing entries : 


- 


- 


. . 


- -- - 


3 


63- A 


st Income - tax 
Officer Saluries 
Circle II, 
Madras. 


Employees and pensioners 

of Leipzig Evangelical 
Luthern Mission , who 
are resident of the Siute 
of Tamil Nadu and 
the Union Territory 
of Pondicherry cxclud 
ing Male and Yanam 
and including Karaikal . 


Inspecting Asstt . Commis - Appellate Asstt. Commissioner Commissioner of 

sioner of Income -tax who of Incomc -tax who has Income - Tax 
has been appointed to been appointed to perform Madras - II , 
perform the function of the function of Appellate Madras . 
an Inspecting Asstt . Com Asst. Commissioner of 
missioner of Income-tax , in Income-tax , in respect of 
respect of the Income - tax Incomc- tex Officer referred 
Officer referred to in Col. 3 . to in Col, 3 . 


63- B 


Employees and persioners Ist Income -lix Inspecting Asstt . Commissioner Appellate Assti , Comissioer Commissioner of 

of The American Luthe - Officer , Sala 10s of Income - tax who has been of Income- tax who has been Income Tax 
ran Churchi , Division of Circle II , appointed to perform the appointed to perform the Madras -II , 
World Missions who Madras . 

function of an Inspecting functon of an Appellate Madras . 
arc resident of the 

Asstt . Commissioner of In - Asstt . Commissioner of 
States of Tamil Nadu 

coinc - tax in respect of the Income-tax in respect of the 
and the Union Terri 

Income-tax Officer referred Income-tax officer , referred 
tory of Pondicherry 

to in Col. 3 . 

to in Col. 3. 
excluding Mahe and 
Yanam and including 
Karaikal and Andhra 
Pradesh . 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - 


[ No. 1 / ( F . No . 187 / 7 / 72 -IT ( AI ). ] 
केन्द्रीय प्रत्यक्ष कर बोर्ड 

( आय-कर ) 

नई दिल्ली , 22 मार्च , 1972 
का० प्रा० 320 5. - - प्राय-कर अधिनियम , 1961 ( 1961 का 43 ) की धारा 126 द्वारा प्रक्त्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हर , केन्द्रीय प्रत्यक्ष कर बोई अपनी अधिसूचना सं० 1 ( फा० मं० 55 / 233 / 63- आई टी ) तारीख 18 - 5 - 64 से उपाबद्ध 
अनुसूची में एतद्द्वारा निम्नलिखित परिवर्धन करता है । 

2. उक्न अनुसूची में विद्यमान प्रविष्टियों के नीचे निम्नलिखित मद जोड़ी जायेंगी : -- 


-- 


- - --- - 


6 


-. - - . -- - -. - - . - . 
63 - क लिपजिग एवेन्जीलिकल लथन प्रथम प्राय - सहायक आय -करमायुक्त (निरीक्षण ) सहायक प्राय -कर आयुक्त प्राय -कर 

मिशन के ऐसे कर्मचारी और कर अधिकारी जो स्तंभ 3 में निर्दिष्ट पाय- ( अपील ) जो स्तंभ 3 में प्रायुक्त , 
पेंशन -भोगी जो मिल नाडु वेतन मर्किल कर अधिकारी की बाबत , सहायक निर्दिष्ट आयकर अधि- मद्रास - 2 , 
राज्य और पाण्डिचेरी संघ II , मद्राम । प्रायकर आयुक्त (निरीक्षण ) कारी की बाबत , सहायक मद्रास । 
गज्यक्षेत्र के निवामी हैं , जिन 

के कृत्य का पालन करने के लिए आय - कर आयुक्त ( अपील ) 
के अन्तर्गत माहे और यनम 

नियुक्त किया गया है । 

के कृत्य का पालन करने 
नही हैं और जिनमें कराइकल 

के लिए नियुक्त किया 
सम्मिलित है । 

गया है । 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] 
- - - -- - -- - - - - -- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 
- - -- - - - - - -- - -- - - - . . . 


4531 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


1 


2 


3 


प्राय - कर 
पायुक्त , 
मद्रास - 2, 
मद्रास । 


63- ख अमेरिकन लूथन चर्च, डिवीजन प्रथम प्राय -फर सहायक प्राय - कर आयुक्त (निरी- महायक प्राय - कर आयुक्त 

आफ वर्ल्ड मिशन्स के ऐसे अधिकारी क्षण ) जो स्तंभ 3 में नि - ( अपील ) जो स्तंभ 3 में 
कर्मचारी औरपेंशन - भोगी जो वेतन मफिल दिष्ट प्राय-कर अधिकारी की निदिष्ट आयकर अधिकारी 
तमिल नाडु राज्य और पांडि - II , मद्रास । । बाबत , महायक आय-कर प्रा - की बाबत , सहायक प्राय 
चेरी संघ राज्यक्षेत्र जिनके 

युक्त (निरीक्षण ) के कृत्य कर अायुक्त ( अपील ) के 
अन्तर्गत माहे और यनम नहीं 

का पालन करने के लिए नियुक्त कृत्य का पालन करने के 
हैं और जिनमें कराइकल सम्मि 

किया गया है । 

लिए नियुक्त किया गया 
लित है , और आंध्र प्रदेश राज्य 
के निवासी हैं । 


यह अधिसूचना 1 - 4 - 72 से प्रभावी होगी । 


[ सं० 1 /फा० सं० 187/ 7/ 72-प्राई टी ( ए 1 ) ] 
Notification No. 1 ( F . No . 56 / 233 / 63-IT ), dated 18th 
May, 1964 as amended from time to time, 


New Delhi, the 1st June 1972 


S . O . 3206. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 126 of the Income-tax Act , 1961 (43 of 1961) , 
the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby makes the 
following addition to the Schedule annexed to its 


In the said Schedule the following item shall be added 
below the existing entries: - - 


Appellate Assistant Com - Commissioner of 
missioner of Income- tax , Incometax , Jai 
B - Range , Jaipur. 

pur. 


Employees under the Income-tax Inspecting Assistant Com 

control of Deputy Officers , Salary missioner of Income - tax , 
Director, Audit & Ac - Circle , Jaipur . Jaipur, Range II, Jaipur . 
counts, Posts & Tcle 

graphs , Jaipur . 
This notification will take effect from I2 - 6- 1972 . 


[ No . 3 ( F. No. 187 / 10 / 72-IT ( AI) .] 

B. MADHAVAN, Under Secy . 
Cyntral Board of Direct Taxes . 


नई दिल्ली , 1 जून , 1972 
का० प्रा० 3206. -- - प्राय कर अधिनियम , 1961 ( 1961 का 43 ) की धारा 126 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का 
प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय प्रत्यक्ष कर बोर्ड अपनी अधिसूचना सं० 1 ( फा० सं० 55 / 233 / 63- प्राई टी ), तारीख 18 - 5 - 64 से उपाबद्ध, 
समय - समय पर यथा संशोधित अनुसूची में एतद्वारा निम्नलिखित परिवर्धन करता है । 

उक्त अनुसूची में विद्यमान प्रविष्टियों के नीचे निम्नलिखित मद जोड़ी जाएंगी : 


3 


65 कर्मचारी जो उप -निदेशक ले बा - प्राय - कर अधिकारी मायक प्राय -कर प्रा का सहा पफ प्राय -कर आयुक्न 

परीक्षा और लेखा, डाक -नार , वेतन मकिन, (निरीक्षण ) , जयपुर रेंज ( प्रमोन ), ख -रेंज 
जयपुर के नियंत्रण में हैं । जयपुर । 2, जयपुर । 

जयपुर । 


प्राय - कर 
पायुक्त , 
जयपुर । 


र 


यह अधिसूचना 12 - 6 - 1972 से प्रभावी होगी । 


[ सं० 3/ ( फा० सं० 187/ 10/ 72 - प्राईटी ( ए 1 ) ] 

बी० माधवन, अवर सचिव , 
केन्द्रीय प्रत्यक्ष कर बोर्ड । 


4532 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART 11 . 


New Delhi, the 30th August 1972 
SUBJECT : _ Penalty Under Section. 271 and. 273 of the 

Income- tar Act , 1961 - Not to initiate proceed 

ings in certain cases . 
Order under section 119 ( 2 ) ( a ) of the Income- tax 

Act, 1961 . 
S . O . 3207. - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause ( a ) of sub -section ( 2 ) of section 119 of the 
Income- tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961 ) , the Central Board 
of Direct Taxes hereby directs that notwithstanding 
anything contained in the Income- tax Act , 1961 
(hereinafter referred to as the said Act ) , the Income 


केन्द्रीय प्रत्यक्ष कर बोर्ड एतदद्वारा यह निदेश देता है 
कि आयकर अधिनियम 1961 (जिसे इसमें इसके पश्चात् उक्त 
अधिनियम कहा गया है ) में किसी बात के होते हुए भी , प्रायकर 
अधिकारी, यदि उसका समाधान हो गया है कि निम्नलिखित शर्ते 
पूरी कर दी गई है, किसी निर्धारण वर्ष की बाबत उक्त अधिनियम 
की धारा 271 या धारा 273 के अधीन किसी शास्तिके अधिरोपरण 
के लिए कोई कार्यवाही प्रारम्भ नहीं करेगा , अर्थात् :---- 


( 1 ) किसी निर्धारण वर्ष की बाबत , 1972 के सितम्बर, 

के प्रथम दिन के पूर्व किसीनिर्धारिती के मामले में 
उक्त अधिनियम के अधीन कोई नियमित निर्धारण 
नहीं किया गया है । 


imposition of a penalty under section 271 or section 
273 of the said Act in respect of an assessment year if 
he is satislled that the following conditions are tul 
filled, namely: 
( i) no regular assessment under the said Act has 

been made in the case of the assessee before 
the 1st day of September, 1972 , in respect of 

any assessment year; 
( ii ) the assessce has , prior to the issue of a 

notice to him under sub -section ( 2 ) of section 
139 , or section 148, of the said Act for the 
relevant assessment year , furnished , before 
the 1st day of January, 1973 , a return of his 
total income or the total income of any other 
person in respect of which he is assessable 

under the said Act : 
Provided that this condition shall not apply in re 

lation to an assessment year in respect of 
which the asssssee has , before the 1st day of 
January, 1973 , and prior to the issue of a 
notice under section 148 of the said Act , de 
clared before the Income-tax Officer the in 
come which has escaped assessment due to his 
failure to make a return under section 139 of 

the said Act; 
( iii) the total income as declared in the said re 

turn by the assessec does not exceed the sum 

of Rs. 15 , 000 ; and 
( iv ) the total income as assessed under section 

143 of the said Act does not exceed the sum 

of Rs. 15,000 . 
2 . This order shall come into force on the 1st day of 
September, 1972 . 

[ No . F. 284 / 41 / 72 - IT ( Inv .) . ] 

___ J. R. RAMA IYER , Secy . 
नई दिल्ली , 30 अगस्त , 1972 
विषय : - - प्रायकर अधिनियम , 1961 की धारा 271 और 

273 के अधीन शास्ति , कतिपय मामलों में 

कार्यवाहियां प्रारम्भ न करना । 
प्रायकर अधिनियम , 1961 की धारा 119 ( 2 ) ( क ) के अधीन 

आदेश 
का० प्रा० 3207 . - - आयकर अधिनियम , 1961 
( 1961 का 43 ) की धारा 119 की उपधारा ( 2 ) 
के खण्ड ( क ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , 


( 2 ) निर्धारिती में उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 139 की 

उपधारा ( 2 ) या धारा 148 के अधीन सुसंगत 
निर्धारण वर्ष के लिए उस पर सूचना जारी होने से 
पूर्व 1973 की जनवरी के प्रथम दिन से पूर्व अपनी 
कुल आय या किसी अन्य व्यक्ति की , जिसकी 
बाबत वह उक्त अधिनियम के अधीन निर्धारण 
योग्य है, कुल आय का विवरण दे दिया है : परन्तु 
यह शर्त इस निर्धारण वर्ष के सम्बन्ध में लागू नहीं 
होगी जिसकी बाबत निर्धारिती ने 1973 की 
जनवरी के प्रथम दिन और उक्त अधिनियम की 
धारा 148 के अधीन सूचना जारी होने से पूर्व 
आयकर अधिकारी के समक्ष उस प्राय की घोषणा 
कर दी हो , जो उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 139 के 
अधीन विवरणी देने में उसके असफल रहने के 
कारण निर्धारण से बच गई है ; 


( 3) निर्धारिती द्वारा उक्त विवरणी में यथा घोषित 

कुल प्राय 15, 000 रु० की राशि से अधिक नहीं 
हैं ; और 


( 4 ) उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 143 के अधीन यथा 

निर्धारिती कुल आय 15, 000 रु० की राशि से 
अधिक नहीं हैं । 


2. यह आदेश 1972 के सितम्बर के प्रथम दिन से प्रवृत्त 
होगा । 


जे रामा अय्यर , सचिव 
केन्द्रीय प्रत्यश बोर्ड । 


COLLECTORATE OF CUSTOMS & CENTRAL EXCISE , COCHIN - 3 . 

CENTRAL EXCISES 

Cochin the 5th November , 1971 
S . 0 . 3208. In exercise of the powers conferred on me In form R . T . 5 In respect of the essential raw materials 
under Rule 173G ( 4 ) of the Central Excise Rules, 1944 , listed in column 4 of the Table annexed hereto for the 
I hereby prescribe maintenance of Raw niatcrial excigable goods mentioned in column 3 of the Table 
accounts in form IV and submission of quaterly return w . e. f . the date of issue of this Notification. 


SEC . 3 (ii) ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4533 


SASSINS 


TABLE 


- 


- 


- 


Description 


Name of important Raw materials. 


No , 


No . 


1. I (2 ) , 
2. IB . 


. Khandsari Sugar . . . 

Sugar cane or massecuite which - ever is used as the 

starting material. 
. Prepared or preserved foods: 

I . Sausages and the like ofmeat, meat Offal or animal Meat, offal and blood as the case may be . 

blood ; 
2 . Other repared or preserved meat ; 

Meat 
3 . Meat extract and meat juices ; 

Meat 
4 . Prepared and preserved Fish 

Fish 
5 . Crustaceans and Molluscs 

Lasic material preserved 
6 . Soups and broths 

Main material from which prepared 
7 . Bottled and canned fruits. 

Sugar 
8 . Jams, Jellies and Marmalades . . . . Sugar if preserved in sugar ; otherwise, material pre 

served . 
9 . Fruit syrups , crushes , squashes , fruit juice , cordials , (i) Fruit juice , fruit pulp . 

ready to serye beverages but excluding aerated waters . ( ii) Sugar. 
10 . Corn flakes , Oats and beans. 

Corn or oat or beans 
II. Tomato ketch - up . 

Tomato juice or tomatoes. 
12 . Dehy irated peas packed in cans or foil packets. Peas in pods. 
13 . Milk powder but excluding such powder specially Whole fresh milk / skimmed milk as the case may be. 

prepared for feeding ofinfants . 
14 . Condensed milk whether sweetened or not. 

Fresh milk / and sugar . 
IS . Preparations with a basis of flour of starch , of malt Basicingredient, 

extract, or ofmalted barley , and milk foods, which 
by simply mixing with or boiling in milk or water 
can be used for making beverages, invalid foods and 
gruels whether or not containing cocoa , but exclud 
ing baby foods that is to say , foods, specially pre 

pared for feeding of infants . 
16 . Tablejellies 

jelatine 

Jelly 
Custard Powdrs 

Starch 
Ice cream powders 

Milk Powder 
17 . Synthetic syrup 

Sugar 
18 Ginger beer and ginger ale 

Ginger 
19 . Giger cock -tail 

Ginger 
Motor Spirit 

(i ) Crude Oil. 
(ii) Coal -tar/Crude benzol for Benzene, Benzol, Tolue 

and solvent naptha . 
Kerosene 

Crude oil 
Refined Diesel Oils and vaporising oils 

Crude oil. 
Diesel Oils NOS , 

Crude oil 
Furnace oil 

Crude oil 
Asphalt, Bitumen and Tar 

Crude oil 
Petroleum Products NOS 

Crude oil 
Paints & Varnishes : 
1 . Zinc oxide ,red lead ,white lead and titanium dioxide Principal starting material: 

white . 
2 . Aluminium paste . 

Aluminium powder. 
3. Dry colours,namely the following; lead chromes and Lead chromate/ Prussian Blue . 
Burnswick green . 
4 . Dry distempers cement based water paints. 

Pigment cement 
5 . Oil bound distemper 

Pigment or oil 
6 . * .:. : : . . ** " .- for leather 

Pigment and Caseine 
7 . " , " . ! !! ! 

Synthetic resins or emulsion . 
8 . I , , , , 

Pigment. 
9 . Stiff paints 

Pigment. 
10 . Ready mixed paints and enamels . 

Pigment, oil and resins 
II . Dispersed organic pigments ordinarily used for the Organic pigments like pthalocyanines . 

painting of textiles , whether in the form of powder , 

paste or in emulsion . 
12 . Varnishes 

Resins 
13 . Bitumens and coaltar blacks 

Bitumen 
11. Nitrocelluloge lacquers clear ani pigin »ntal and Nitrocellulose ! 

nitrocellulose ancillaries in liquid form . 
15. Nitrocellulose ancillaries in semi- solid and pasty Nitrocellulose 

form . 
16 . Cəllulosic lacquers not otherwise specified. 

Cellulose acetate cellulose butyrate 


9 


114 


10 14 


4534 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


( PART II 


II 14HH 


Fortlligers : 
(i) Urca 

Raw naptha /ammonia /lignite / coal / carbondioxldo/ 

calcium cynamido. 
( il) Calcium Ammonium Nitrate 

Ammonia and limostono /dolomite , 
(ii ) Superphosphate . , . 

Rock phosphato and sulphuric acid . 
( iv ) Ammonium nitrato , , , , , Ammonia and nitric acid . 
( v ) Ammonia gulphate 

Sulphur/ sulphuric acid /ammonia . 
(vi) Double salt (ammonia sulphato nitato ) 

Gypyyum , coal , nitric acid . 
(vii) Granulatod mixed fertilizers. , . 

Urea , M . P . tash , gulphate of ammonia , Dl- ammonia 

gulphate , supor phosphate , 
(vili) Ammonium chloride 

, Common galt Naptha. 
(1x ) Diammonium Phosphato 

. Ammonia , rock and sulphur , 
Paper - all sorts including paste board , mill board , (1) Chomical wood pulp and /or bamboo , baggazo 
straw board and card board . 

rags , warto paper , straw or any other starting 

material for making pulp . 
(ii) for corrugatod board , the i portant raw material 

would be corrugated paper , 


12 


17 


13 
14 


18A 
19 


, 
. 


. 
. 


Cotton Yarn . 
Co:ton Fabrics . 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. (1) Cotton . 

(i) Cotton yarn . 
(ii) Cotton fabrics for processo89 of cotton fabrics 


15 
16 


22A , 
330. . 


Jute Manufacturos , , , , , , Juto. 
. Domostic Eloctric Appliances : 
I , Vaccum cleanors. 

Electric Motors . 
2 . Floor polishers 

Bloctric Motorg or Polishing Agilators. 

Electric Motors . 
4 . Juice Extractors 

Bloctric Motors . 
5 . Croam Whippers & ogg boaters. 

Eloctric Motors . 
6 . Clothes washing Machines 

Blo ctric Motors or Agilators. 
7. Digh washing Machinos 

Electric Motors. 
8 . Automatic smoothing iron Attoi with device for Thormpytat or Heating elomonts , 

automatic rogulation oftomporæturo . 
9 . Geysers , all types , , , , , , Thermostats and Heating olements , 
10 . Water Boilors . . 

. 

Heating olomonts . 
II. Shavers 

. ElectricMotors or Cuttor sot, 
12. Hair Dryers , Hair Curlers Permanent waving 

apparatuyog Ani cirling tong heaters ., , ElectricMotors or Coils and platos. 
13 . M 19928 : apparatus 

Transforo mer coll and applicator . 
14 . Kattles , 8 iucaping,steamuiscoffoomakor (includ 

ing percolators of tho domestic typo ) , cookers , 
egg boilets, frying pans. . . . . . 

Heating oloments . 
15 - Toastors 

Hoating Elements . 
16 . Hot plates, conking rangos, grillers , boiling platos, 

plate warmers, food warming trays, food warming 
trollles , hot food cabinets . 

Hoating olemonts or control dovlse. 
17 . Coffoo roasting appliances 

Heating elements or Body . 
13 . Roon hoitors Fittst with air circulation device , Hogting elements and electric motors , 
19 . Tc : cc ) in chirnery, or Ic ; croan Froszors 

Electric Motors. 
23. Datic Oyong of all typ 33 , . . 

. Hoating olon jnts or Thorizostats 
Pllfer proof caps ! . . . . . . . Tinnod sheets. 
Wool Tops 

. . . . . . . Raw Wool . 


17 
18 


12 
43 


. 


[No . 4 / 71. ) 

KAUSALYA NARAYANAN , Collector 
सीमाशुल्क तथा केन्द्रीय उत्पादन शुल्क समाहर्तालय -कोचीन 

केन्द्रीय उत्पादन शुल्क 

# 1977, 576 , 1971 
To sto 3208.- TT JATTH FThari 1944 FTA 173– ft ( ) # 

TH ATTIT TATT 
करते हुए मैं एतदद्वारा प्रारूप IV में कच्चा माल लेखों का साधारण तथा इसके साथ अनुबंधित तालिका में स्तम्भ 3 में अनुसूचित प्रावश्यक 
कच्चा माल के संबंध में प्रार- टी - 5 प्रारूप में त्रैमासिक प्रविवरण का प्रस्तुतीकरण अधिसूचना के जारी किए जाने के दिनांक से विहित करता 


SEC . 3 (ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29. 1894 


4535 


तालिका 


विवरण 


आवश्यक कच्चे मालों के नाम 


क्रम स० प्रशुल्क 
मद सं० 


1 


2 


3 


मांस 


1 1 ( 2 ) खाण्डसारी शक्कर 

गन्ना अथवा राब जो भी प्रारभिक माल के रूप में प्रयुक्त 

हो । 
2 14 तैयार अथवा अरिरक्षित खाद्य : 

मांस , मासोच्छिष्ट अथवा रक्त जो प्रावश्यक हो 
1. मांस चिर्मटी ( सोसेज ) अथवा इस तरह का मांस 

मांसोच्छिष्ट अथवा पशु रक्त 
2 . अन्य तैयार अथवा परिरक्षित मांस 
3. मास सार अथवा मांस रहस 

मांस 
4. तैयार अथवा परिरक्षित मछली 

मछली 
5. क्रूस्टेशियन्स और मोल्लस्कम 

परिरक्षित मल सामग्री 
6 . सोरवा और यूप 

मुख्य माल जिससे तैयार किया जाता है । 
7. बोतल बंद अथवा डिब्बा बंद फल 

चीनी 
8. मुरब्बा , चटनी तथा पाक 

चीनी यदि चीनी में परिरक्षित ही अथवा परिरक्षित वस्तु । 
9. फलों के रस असेज , स्क्वाशोज फलों के मुरब्बे , शिरका 1. फलों के रस /फलों के गुदे 

( उत्तेज पेय ), पासव को छोड़कर सरमने पेय । 2. चीनी 
10. कानं फलेक्स , जई और सोयाबीन 

कार्न अथवा जई अथवा सोयाबीन 
11. टमाटर ( केच - अप / चटनी ) 

टमाटर अथवा टमाटर 
12. उद्जनित मटर-डिब्बा अथवा कागज ( फाइल ) मटर की छिम्मी 

पेक्टस में बन्द 
13. दुग्ध चूर्ण परन्तु शिशु-पोषण के लिए विशेषतः निर्मित पूर्णतया ताजा दूध /मथा हुअा दूध जो आवश्यक हो । 

दूग्धपूर्ण को छोड़कर 
14. मीठा किया हुआ अथवा अन्य संघनित दूध ताजा दूध तथा चीनी 
15. गोधूम स्टार्च अन्नसार अथवा जो सार और दुग्ध खाद्य मूल संयोगांग 

के प्राधार से तैयार वस्तुएं जिनको दूध अथवा पानी 
में साधारणतः मिलाने अथवा उबालने से बनने वाले रुग्ण 
खाद्य जो पेय के रूप में प्रयुक्त हो सके जो " कोकोपा " सहित 
अथवा रहित हो , परन्तु बाल आहार अर्थात् विशेषतः 
शिशु पोषण के लिए निर्मित आहार को छोड़कर 
16. मेजयटनी 

जिलेटिन 
चटनी पारदर्शी 
पगाए हुए चूर्ण (पाउडर ) 
( आइसक्रीम ) चूर्ण 

दूग्ध चूर्ण 
17. संश्लेष्टित शर्बत 

चीनी 
18. जिगर वियर और जिंगर येल 

अदरक 
19. जिंगर काकटेल 

अदरक 
मोटर स्प्रिट 

1 . अपरिष्कृत / कच्चा तेल 
2. कोलतार/बेंजिन, बेन्जोन्स टोल्यूने के लिए क्रूड मेंजोल 

तथा विलायक उत्तैल 
मिट्टी का तेल 

अपरिष्कृत तेल 
परिष्कृत डिजेल तेल और वाष्पीय तेल 

अपरिष्कृत /कण्या तेल 
डिजेल तेल एन० ओ० एस० 

अपरिष्कृत / कच्चा तेल 


जेली 
स्टार्च 


58 


4536 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 

- - - - -- - - 


[ PART II- - 


. 


. . - - 


1 


2 


3 


7 10 भ्राष्ट तेल 

अपरिष्कृत /कच्चा तेल 
8 11 एशफाल्ट, बिटुमिन और तार 
9 114 पेट्रोलियम उत्पादन एन० प्रो० एस 
10 14 रंग और वानिश 

1. जिंक प्राक्साइड, लाल सीस सफेद सीस तथा टिटेनियम मुख्य प्रारंभिक माल 

आक्साइड - सफेद 
2. अल्मुनियम ( लेप ) पेस्ट 

अल्मुनियम चूर्ण 
3. सूखे रंग अर्थात् 
निम्नलिखित लीड क्रोम्स और वर्क्सविक -हरा 

लीड क्रोमेट / प्रसियननीला 
4. सूखे रंग / सीमेंट आधारित जलीय रंग 

पिगमेंट सीमेंट 
5 . तैलीय रंग 

रंग (पिगमेंट ) अथवा तेल 
6. चमड़े की फिनिश के लिए जलीय रंग ( वाटरपिगमेंट ) पिगमेंट और कसीन 
7. ( लास्टिक इमलशन रंग 

संश्लोष्टित रेजिस अथवा इमलशन 
8. टिंटिग पेस्ट ( नील ) 

पिगमेंट 

पिगमेंट 
10. तैयार मिश्रित रंग और रोगन 

पिगमेंट तेल और रेजिस 
11. विच्छिन्न प्रांगारिक रगा साधारणतः कपड़े रंगने में प्रागारिक रगा जैसे थैलोसियेनाइन्स 

प्रयुक्त , पूर्ण लेप अथवा तरल ( इमल्सन ) किसी भी रूप में 
12. रोगन ( वानिस ) 

रेजिस 
13. विटुमिन और कोलतार कालेरंग 

बिटुमिन 

निद्रोसेलूलोज 
स्वच्छ और रंगित तथा 

निद्रोसेलूलोज गौणतरल रूप में 
15 निट्रोसेलूलोज गौण - अर्द्धठोस तथा लेपन रूप में , निट्रो से नूनोज 

16. सेलूलोजिक गौण अन्यथा वर्णित नहीं सेलूलोज एसेटेट / सेलूलोज बुट्टे 
11 14 एष एच उर्वरक 
1. यूरिया 

कच्चा नापथा / अमोनिया /लिग्नाइट ) कोयला /कार्बन विग्री 

षिद / कैल्शियम सिनामाइड 
2. कैल्शियम अमोनियम निट्रेट 

अमोनिया तथा चने का पत्थर / डोले माइट 
3. सुपरफास्फेट 

राक फास्फेट तथा गंधकीय अम्ल 
4. अमोनिया निट्रेट 

अमोनिया तथा निट्रिक एशिड 
5. अमोनिया सल्फेट 

गंधक / गंधकीय अम्ल अमोनिया 
6. उबल साल्ट ( अमोनिया सल्फेट निट्रेट ) 

जिप्सम , कोयला , निट्रिक एशिड 
7. नेलेटेड मिश्रित उर्वरक 

परिया , एम . पोटाश , सल्फेट अमोनिया , वि - अमोनिया 

सल्फेट , सुपर फास्फेट 
8. अमोनिया क्लोराइड 

साधारण नमक / नापथा 
9. दि अमोनियम फासफेट 

अमोनिया / राक तथा गंधक 
__ 12 17 कागज- सभी प्रकार, पेस्ट बोर्ड मिल बोर्ड, स्ट्रा बोई तथा (i ) रासानिक काष्ठ लुगदी/ अथवा बांस चिपड़े रही 
कार्ड बोई सहित । 

कागज पास अथवा लुगदी बनाने के लिए अन्य सामग्री । 
( ii ) कोरुगेटेड बोर्ड के लिए यावश्यक कच्चा माल को 

गेटेड कागज होगा । 


- 


y 


- 


- 


- 


SEC. 3(ii)1 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVÍNA 29, 1894 
- - : - --- - --- - -- - -- - - -- - - - - - - - - 

- -- - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - 


4537 


-- -- -- 


12 


( i) मई 


13 18-ए सूनी धागा 
14 19 सूती वस्त्र 


( i) सूती धागा 
( ii ) मूती धागा मूती वस्त्र निर्माण के लिए । 


15 22- ए जूट विनिर्माता 
16 33– सी घरेलू विद्युत उपकरण : 
1. वैकुम क्लीनर्स 

विद्यत मोटर 
2. फर्शपालिशर्स 

विद्यत मोटर अथवा पालिशिंग एजीलेटस 
3. ग्राइण्डर्म और मिक्मर्म 

विद्युत मोटर 
4. जूम -कम 

विद्युत मोटर 

विद्युत मोटर 
6. कपड़ा धलाई यंत्र 

विद्युत मोटर अथवा एजीलेटस 
7. बर्तन धुलाई यंत्र 

विद्युत मोटर 
8. स्वीक्रय रमूर्थिग आयरन , स्वक्रिय -तापक्रम विनियमन थर्मोस्टैट और हीटिंग उपकरण 

यंत्र में युक्त 
9. गेमर्स - सब प्रकार के 

थमोस्टैट और हीटिंग उपकरण 
10. वाटर बाइलर्स 

हीटिंग उपकरण 
11. शेवर्स 

विद्यत मोटर अथवा कटर सेट 
12. हेयर ड्रायर्स, हेयर कर्लर्स, परमानेण्ट वैविंग एप्राट्स विद्युत मोटर अथवा क्वाइल्स और प्लेट्स 


13. मालिश करने वाले संयंत्र 

ट्रांसफार्मर क्वाइल और एप्लीकेटर 
14. केतली मासपंन्म स्टीमर्स काफी मेकर्स ( घरेल 

स्टामस काफी मेकस ( परेल किस्म हीटिंग उपकरण 
के परकोलेटर्स सहित ) 
15. टोस्टर्स 

हीटिंग उपकरण 
16. हाट प्लेट्स , कूकिंग रैन्जेज ग्रिलर्स व्याइलिंग प्लेट्स हीटिंग उपकरण अथवा नियंत्रण संथन 
प्लेट वामर्स , भोजन गर्म करने वाली तस्तरिया भोजन 

गर्म करनेवाली ट्राली गर्म भोजन कैविनेट्स 
17. काफी रोस्टिंग उपकरण 

हीटिंग उपकरण अथवा बाठी 
18. रूम हीटर्स , वायु संवाहक संयंत्र युक्त 

विद्युत मोटर 
19. प्राइस क्रीम चूर्नक अथवा आइसक्रीम फ्रीजर्स विद्युत मोटर 
20. घरेलू चूल्हे-सभी प्रकार 

हटिंग उपकरण अथवा थर्मोस्टैट्स 


17 42 


पिल्फर प्रूफ कैप्स 


टिनकी चद्दर 


18 43 


ऊल टाप्स 


कच्चा ऊन 


[सं० 4/ 71 ] 


कौसल्य नारायणन् , समाहर्ता । 


4538 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART 11 


की निम्नलिखित नई अधिकारिताएं 1 - 4 - 1970 (पूर्वाह्न ) 
से एतद्वारा बनाता है : 
- - - 
क्रम सं० पदाभिधान 

मुख्यालय 
( 1 ) 

( 3 ) 


( 2 ) 


COLLECTORATE OF CENTRAL EXCISE , CALCUTTA 

& ORISSA 

CENTRAL EXCISE 

Calcutta , the 19th June 1971. 
S . 0 . 3209.....In exercise of the powers conferred by 
me by Rule 5 of the Central Excise Rules , 1944 , I here 
by authorise the Assistant Collectors of Central Excise, 
Calcutta and Orissa to exercise the powers of " Col 
lector " under proviso ( ili) to sub - rule ( 1 ) of Rule 173G 
of the Central Excise Rules , 1944 . 

No . 2 - CE/ 1971. ] 

N . MOOKHERJEE , Collector . 
केन्द्रीय उत्पाद -शुल्क समाहरणालय , कलकता और उड़ीमा 

केन्द्रीय उत्पाद शुल्क 

कलकत्ता , 19 जून , 1971 
एम० प्रो० 3209. -- केन्द्रीय उत्पाद शुल्क नियमावली , 
1944 के नियम 5 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करता हमा , 
मैं , केन्द्रीय उत्पाद शुल्क सहायक समाहर्ता, कलकत्ता और उड़ीसा 
को , केन्द्रीय उत्पाद शुल्क नियमावली , 1944 के नियम 173जी 
के उपनियम ( 1 ) के परन्तुक ( iii ) के अधीन “ कलक्टर 
की शक्तियों का प्रयोग करने के लिए एतदद्वारा प्राधिकृत करता 


आयकर अधिकारी, 
मुख्यालय , 
( प्रशासन ) । 

नागपुर 
आयकर अधिकारी, 
मुख्यालय , 
( न्यायिक ) । 

नागपुर 
आयकर अधिकारी, 
मुख्यालय , 
( एस. आई.बी एण्ड पी. पार . ) नागपुर 


[ मं० प्रा० क० (नागपुर )/ 70] 

अवतार सिंह , आयकर आयुक्त । 

INCOME- TAX 

Nagpur , the 8th May 1970 
S . O . 3211. - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 124 of the Income - tax Act , 
1961 ( 43 of 1961) the Commissioner of Income- tax , 
Vidarbha and Marathwada , Nagpur hereby directs crea 
tion of the following new offices : 


[ सं० 2 -सी० ई०/ 1971] 


एन० मुखर्जी, कलक्टर । 


Designation 


Headquarters 


. - . - 


. . - 


- . . 


- 


- 


- 


Gondia. 


1 . Income- tox Officcer , 

A - Ward . Gondia 
2 , Income- tax Offlcer . 

B -Ward , Gondia 


Gondia 


OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME - TAX 
VIDARBHA AND MARATHWADA 

(INCOME- TAX ) 

Nagpur, the 1st April 1970 
S . O . 3210 , - The Commissioner of Income-tax Vidarbha 
and Marathwada , Nagpur horeby creates tlic following new 
chargos of Income- tax Officers in his own office with effect from 
1 - 4 - 1970 F . N . 


Designation 


Headquarters 


S . No . 
( 1 ) 


This notification shall take effect from 10th May , 
1970 . 

[ No. 2 -IT ( NGP/ 70. ] 
प्रायकर 

नागपुर, 8 माई , 1970 
एस० प्रो० 3211. -- आयकर अधिनियम , 1961 
( 1961 का 43 ) की धारा 124 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदस 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , प्रायकर प्रायुक्त , विदर्भ और 
मराठवाड़ा , नागपुर एतद्वारा निम्नलिखित नए कार्यालय के 
बनाने का निदेश देता है : 


Nagpur . 


Do. 


I . Income - tax Officer , 

Headquarters , 

( Administration) 
2. Income - tax Officer , 

Headquarters, 

(Judicial ) . 
3 . Incomo-tex Oficer , 

Headquarters, 
( S. I. B . & P. R . ) 


Do . 


मुख्यालय 


[ No. 1 - IT ( NGP ) / 70. ] 

AVTAR. SINGH, 

Commissioner of Income- tax. 
प्रायकर प्रायुक्त का कार्यालय , विदभ और मराठवाडा 


गोंदिया 


प्रायकर अधिकारी , क - वाई , 

गोंदिया । 
प्रायकर अधिकारी, ख - वार्ड , 

गोंदिया । 


गोंदिया 


प्रायकर 


नागपुर , 1 अप्रैल , 1970 
एस० प्रो० 32 10 . - - प्रायकर आयुक्त , विदर्भ और मराठ 


यह अधिसूचना तारीख 10 - 5 -1970 को प्रभावी होगी । 

[सं० 2- पा० क० ( नाग० ) / 70] 


SEC. 3 ( 10 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4539 


- . 


- 


. 


- 


. 


- 


. 


. . . 


. 


- - 


8 . 0 . 3212. - In exercise of the powers conferred on 
him under sub -section ( 2 ) of Section 124 of the 
Income- tax Act , 1961 ( 43 of 1961 ) and all other powers 
enabling him in this behalf, the Commissioner of 
Income- tax , Vidarbha and Marathwada . Nagpur here 
by cancels with eflect from 10th May , 1970, the Noti 
fication No. 52 - IT ( MP) / 68 issued on 8th January , 1969 
regarding jurisdiction of Additional Income- tax Officer , 
Collection , Nagpur and Income- tax Officer, Assessment 
x , Nagpur. 

[ No. 4 -IT ( NAG ) / 70.] 
एस० प्रो० 3212. - -- पायकर अधिनियम , 1961 ( 1961 
का 43 ) की धारा 124 की उपधारा ( 2 ) के अधीन 


उसे प्रदत्त शक्तियों और इस निमित्त उसे समर्थ बवाने वाली 
सभी आय शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए मायकर आयुक्त , विदर्भ 
पीर मराठवाड़ा , नागपुर अपर मायकर अधिकारी, संग्रहण , 
नागपुर और मायकर अधिकारी निर्धारण - 10 , नागपुर , की 
अधिकारिता के बारे में तारीन 8 - 1 - 69 को जारी की गई अधि 
सूचना सं० 52- मा०क० ( म०प्र० )/ 168 को 10 - 5 - 70 से 
एतदद्वारा रद करता है । 


[सं० 4 -पा० १० ( नाग०) / 70 ] 


9 . 0 . 3113 . - In oxorcise of the power conferred on him under sub section ( 1 ) of Section 124 of the Income- tax Act, 1961( 43 of 1961) 
and all otlor powers unabling him in this behalf and fri modification of tho Notification No . 37 - IT (MP ), 68 dated 4 - 9 - 1968 , the Com 

missioner of Income - tax , Vidarbha and Mara hwada, Nagpur directs that the Income - taxOfficers shown in Column 3 of The Schedule 
below shallexercise powers of an Incom: -tax Officer in respact of areas, parsons or classes of persons,incomes or classes ofincomas and/ or 
casoy or class09 of cas is falling within th - jurisdic ion shown against their names in Col . 4 of the schedule below other than those whose 
cases have been specifically transferred u/s5(7A ) of the Indian Income - tax Act, 1922 or u / 8127 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 to any other 
Income - tax- offices . 


SCHEDULE 


sl. 
No . 


Namno of Circlo 


Designation of I. T.O . 


Jurisdicdon 


I . 


Nagpur Circle 


. 


. 


. 


Incomo-tax Oficer , Assossmont -II, Nagpur All persons within the aroag comprising of 

Bhandara District excluding Gundia 

Tahsil. 
Except : those assesyable by: - - 
I . Incomc-tax Officer , Asstt. I, Nagpur. 
2. Income-tax Oficer , Salary Circlcs , Nagpur 


Or 


3. Income -tax Officer , Salary Circle & Re 

funds, Nagpur . 


This Notification shall take cffect from 


10-3- 1970 . 


[ No. S-IT NAG)/ 70.] 


__ 1 


2 


3 


करने वाले क्षेत्रों 
के भीतर के व्यक्ति । 


उनके सिवाय जो -- 
1. आयकर अधिकारी , 
निर्धारग - 1, नागपुर । 


__ कामा 3213. आयकर अधिनियम , 1961 ( 1961का 43 ) 
की धारा 124 को उपधारा ( 1 ) के अधीन उसे प्रदत्त शक्तियों और 
इस निमित्त उसे समर्थ बनाने वाली सभी अन्य शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए और अधिमूचना सं० 37 - आयकर ( म०प्र० ) / 68, 
तारीख 4 - 9 - 68 को उपान्तरित करते हुए , आयकर आयुक्त 
विदर्भ और मराठवाड़ा, नागपुर , निदेश देता है कि नीचे दी गई 
अनुसूची के स्तम्भ 3 में दणित प्रायकर अधिकारी , उन मामलों 
से भिन्न , जो भारतीय आयकर अधिनियम , 1922 की धारा 5 ( 7 ) 
के अधीन या प्रायकर अधिनियम , 1961 की धारा 127 के अधीन 
किसी अन्य प्रायकर कार्यालयों की विशिष्ट रूप से अन्तरित कर 
दिए गए हों , नीचे दी गई अनुसूची के स्तम्भ 4 में उनके नामों के 
सामने दर्शित अधिकारिता के भीतर पाने वाले क्षेत्रों , व्यक्तियों 
या व्यक्तियों के वर्गो, पाय या आय के वर्ग और / या मामलों या 
मामलों के वर्गों के बारे में , प्रायकर अधिकारी की शक्तियों का 
प्रयोग करेंगे । 

अनुसूची 
क्रम सकिल का आयकर अधिकारी अधिकारिता 

सं० नाम का पदाभिधान 
12 

3 

4 
1. नागपुर सकिल आयकर अधि - गोंदिया तहसील को 

कारी ,निर्धारण- II छोड़कर भंडारा 
नागपुर 

जिले को समाविष्ट 


2 . प्रायकर अधिकारी, 
वेतन सकिल, नाग 
पुर । 

या 
3. आयकर अधिकारी, 
वेतन सकिल और 
प्रतिदाय , नागपुर 
द्वारा निर्धारणीय हैं । 


यह अधिसूचना 10-5- 1970 से प्रभावी होगी । 


[सं० 5- प्रा ० ०( ताग,)/ 70] 


4540 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART ti 


। 


Nagpur, 11 th May 1970 


___ I 


2 


S . 0 . 3214 . - In exercise of the powers conferred on him 
by sub -section ( I ) of Section 123 of the Income - tax Act, 1961 
( 43 of 1961) and all other powers enabling him in this behalf 
and in supersession of all other previous notifications on the 
subject , the Commissioner of Incomc tax , Vidarbha and Marath 
wada , Nagpur, hereby directs that the Inspecting Assistant 
Commissioner of Income tax as specificd in column No. 2 of 
the schedule annexed heretu shall perform their functions in 
respect of such arcas , of such persons or class of persons , of 
such income or class of income and /or of such cascs or class of 
cases as is specificd in column No. 3 of the schedule here below : 


Provided that they shall also perform such functions 111 
respecr ot such areas , of such persons or class of persons , of such 
incomes or class of incomes , or of such cascs or class of cases 
es have been or may be a signed by the Central Board of Direct 
Taxes or the Commissioner of Income tax to any Income tax 
Officer subordinate to them . 


7 . Inspecting Aysistant Assę89able by the following Income 

Commissioner of In - tax Officers , 
comctax , Akola Range, 
Akola , 

I . I . T . O ., A - Ward , Akola. 
2 . I . T . O ., B - Ward , Akola . 
3. I . T. O ., C - Ward, Akola. 
4 . I . T . O ., D - Ward , Akola . 

I . T . O . , A - Ward . Amrioti . 
I. T . O ., B - Ward , Amrkoti. 
1. T . .. C ard, Amrgoti, 
I . T . O . , D - Ward, Amratoi . 

I . T . O , E - Ward. Amraoti . 
I0. I . T . O . Khamgaon, 
II . I . T . O . , A - Ward , Aurangabad . 
12 . L. T . O . , B - Ward , Aurangabad . 
13 . I. T . O ., C - Ward , Aurangabad . 
14. I. T. O ., D - Ward . Aurangabad . 
15 . I . T . O . , E - Ward , Aurangabad. 
16. I . T . O . , A - Ward , Nanded . 
17. I . T . O ., B- Ward , Nanded . 
18 . I . T . O ., C - Ward , Nanded . 
19. I . T . O ., Latur . 


Provided furtner that they shall not perform their functions 
in respect of such persons Or Such cases as have been or may be 
assigned to the following 

1. Incometax Officer, Special Estate Duty , Cum- I. T . Circle , 

Akola 
2 . Incometax Officer , Special Estate Duty , Cum- I. T . Circle , 

Aurangabad 
3 . Incometax Officer , Central Circle- I, Nagpur 
4 . Incometax Officer , Central Circle - II , Nagpur 
5. Incoinslax Officer , Central Circle, III , Nagpur 
6. Incometax Officer , Central Circle - IV, Nagpur 
7 . Incometax Officer , Central Circlc , V , Nagpur 

SCHEDULE 


Tuis norification shall take effect from 1 -6 - 1970 . 

[ No. IT - 3 ( NAG/ 7oj 


नागपुर , 11 मई 1970 


S1 . Dasignation 


No . 


Jurisdiction in respect of areas , per 
sons or class of persons, Incomcs Or 
class of incomcs and / or cases or class 
of cases 


का०या० 321 4.-- - प्रायकर अधिनियम, 196 1 ( 1961का 43 ) 
की धारा 123 की उपधारा ( 1 )द्वारा उसे प्रदत्त शक्तियों और इस 
निमित उसे ममर्थ बनाने वाली अन्य मभी शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हुए और इस विषय पर की सभी अन्यति अधिसूचनाओं को अधि 
क्रान्त करते हुए , प्रायकर आयुक्त्त, विदर्भ और मराठवाड़ा , नागपुर 
एतद्द्वारा निदेश देता है कि इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची के स्तम्भ संख्या 
2 में यथा विनिर्दिष्ट सहायक प्रायकर आयुक्त (निरिक्षण ) ऐसे 
क्षेत्रों , ऐसे व्यक्तियों या व्यक्तियों के वर्ग ऐसी प्राय या प्राय के वर्ग 
और या ऐसे मामलों या मामलों के वर्ग के बारे में , जो इसके नीचे 
की अन सूची के स्तम्भ संख्या 3 में विनिर्दिष्ट हों , अपने कृत्यों का 
पालन करेंगे : 

परन्तु वे ऐसे क्षेत्रों के, ऐसे व्यक्तियों या व्यक्तियों के वर्ग के , 
ऐसी आय या प्राय के वर्ग या ऐसे मामलों या मामलों के वर्ग के बारे में , 
जो केन्द्रीय प्रत्यक्षकर बोर्ड या प्रायकार प्रायुक्त द्वारा अपने अधीनस्थ 
किसी आयकर अधिकारी को सौपे गए हों या सौंपे जाएं , ऐसे कृत्यों 
का भी पालन करेंगे : 


I Inspccting Assistant Assessable by the following Income 

Commissioner of In - tax Oficers 
cometax, Range, I , 
Nagpur 
I . I . T . O . Asstt , I . 

Nagpur . 
2 . I. T . O . Asstt , III , Nagpur . 
3 . I. T . O , Assrt , IV . Nogpur . 
4 . I. T . O . Asstt , VI . Nagpur . 
5 . I . T . O . Asstt , VII , Nagpur . 
6 . I . T . O , Asstt , VIIT , Nagpur . 

I. T . O . Asstt , IX - Nagpur . 
8 . I. T . O . Asstt XII , Nagpur . 
0 . I. T . O . Asstt , XIV, Nagpur . 
10. I. T . O . Collection, Nagpur , 
II . I . T . O . Administration , Nagpur. 

12 . I. T .O . City Circle , Nagpur, 
2 Inspecting Assistant Assessablc by the following ITO . S 

Commissioner of In 
cometax, Range, II , 
Nagpur 

I . I. T . O . Asstt : II , Nagpur 
2 . I . T . O . Asstt , V , Nagpur 
3. I. T . O . Asstt .. XI, Nagpur . 
4 . I. T . O . Asstt . XIII , Nagpur . 
5 . I . T . O . A - Ward , Gondia . 
6 . I . T . O . B - Ward , Gondia . 
7. Ist I. T . O . Salary Circle , Nagpur , 
8 . 2nd I. T . O . Salary Circle , Nagpur. 
9 . 3rd I . T . O . Salary Circle, Nagpur , 
TO . I . T . O ., A - Ward . Wardha . 
Il. I. T . O ., B - Ward , Wardha . 
12 . I. T . O . , C -Ward , Wardha . 
13. I . T . O ., D - Ward , Wardha , 
14 . I . T . O .. Yeotmal . 


परन्तु और भी कि वे ऐसे व्यक्तियों के या ऐसे मामलों के बारे 
में अपने कृत्यों का पालन नहीं करेंगे, जो निम्नलिखित अधिकारियों 
को सौंपे गए हैं या सौंपे जाएं : - - 
___ 1 ग्रायकर अधिकारी , विशेष सम्पदा - शुल्क , एवं प्रा०क० 
सर्किल , अकोला । 
____ 2 अायकर अधिकारी, विशेष सम्पदा- शुल्क , एवं प्रा० क . 
सर्किल , औरंगाबाद । 

3 आयकर अधिकारी , केन्द्रीय सकिल - I, नागपुर । 
4 आयकर अधिकारी, केन्द्रीय सर्किल , II, नागपुर । 
5 आयकर अधिकारी, केन्द्रीय मकिल, III, नागपुर । 


Ste36 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4541 


12 


- 


6 मायकर अधिकारी , केन्द्रीय मकिन, IV , नागपुर । 
7 प्रायकर अधिकारी , केन्द्रीय मीन, V नागपुर । 

अनुसूची 


-- - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


पदाभिधान 


क्रम 
सं . 


क्षेत्रों , व्यक्तियों या व्यक्तियों 
के वर्गों, पाय या प्राय के वर्गों/ 
मामले या मामले के वर्गों के बारे 

में अधिकारिता । 


* प्रायकर अधिकारी, निर्धा 

रण XI, नागपुर । 
! प्रायकर अधिकारी, निर्धा 

रण XIII , नागपुर । 
5. प्रायकर अधिकारी, क -वार्ड , 

गोंदिया । 
6 आयकर अधिकारी, ख -वार्ड 
___ गोंदिया । 
7. प्रथम प्रायकर अधिकारी, 

वेतन सकिल, नागपुर --- 1 
8. द्वितीय आयकर अधिकारी 


3 


1 सहायक आयकर 

निम्नलिखित प्रायकर अधि 
प्रायुक्त ( निरिक्षण ) , कारियों द्वारानिर्धारणीय : 
रेंज - I, नागपुर - 1 

1. आयकर अधिकारी , निर्धारण 
___ I, नागपुर । 

2. आयकर अधिकारी, निर्धारण 
___ III, नागपुर । 

3. प्रायकर अधिकारी , निर्धा 
__ रण IV, नागपुर । 

4. प्रायकर अधिकारी , निर्धा 
__ रण VI, नागपुर । 
5. प्रामकर अधिकारी, निर्धा 

रण VII, नागपुर । 
8. प्रायकर अधिकारी, निर्धा 

रण VIII. नागपुर । 
7. प्रायकर अधिकारी , निर्धा 
___ रण IX , नागपुर । 
8 . प्रायकर अधिकारी , निर्धा 


9. तृतीय प्रायकर अधिकारी 

वेतन सकिल , नागपुर । 
10. प्रायकर अधिकारी, क -वार्ड , 

वर्धा । 
11. आयकर अधिकारी, खवाई , 

वर्धा । 
12. प्रायकर अधिकारी , ग-वाई 

वर्धा । 
13. आयकर अधिकारी , प-यार्ड 

वर्धा । 
14. आयकर अधिकारी , यवत 

माल । 


9. प्रायकर अधिकारी, निर्धा 

रण XIV, नागपुर । 
10. श्रायकर अधिकारी, संग्रह्ण, 

नागपुर । 
* 11. आयकर अधिकारी , प्रशासन , 

नागपुर । 
12. प्रायकर अधिकारी , सिटी 

सकिल, नागपुर । 


3. सहायक प्रायकर आयुक्त 1. प्रायकर अधिकारी, क वार्म, 

(निरीक्षण ) , अकोला रेंज , अकोला । । 
अकोला । 

2. आयकर अधिकारी, ख वार्ड, 

अकोला । 
3. आयकर अधिकारी , ग वार्ड , 

अकोला । 
4. आयकर अधिकारी , ष वार्ड 

अकोला । 
5. आयकर अधिकारी, क वार्ड , 

अमरावती । 
6. प्रायकर अधिकारी, ख वार्ड, 

अमरावती । 
7. आयकर अधिकारी, ग वार्ड , 

अमरावती । 
8. आयकर अधिकारी, घ वार्ड, 

अमरावती । 
9. प्रायकर अधिकारी, सुः वार्ड , 

अमरावती । 
10. प्रायकर अधिकारी, खाम 

गांव । 


2 सहायक आयकर पायु निम्नलिखित ग्रायकर अधि 

पत , (निरिक्षण ) , 1 कारियों द्वारा निर्धारणीय : 
जII , नागपुर -11 1. प्रायकर अधिकारी , निर्धा 

रण II, नागपुर । 
2. प्रायकर अधिकारी , निर्धा 

रण V , नागपुर । 


4542 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


ITAT II 


1 


2 


11. OTP afart, fat, 

16 . 144 afaret, art , 
. TITETI 

hope areas 
12. 4144 % afa41a , a art , 

17. Arra a arti, o art. 
मौरंगाबाद . 

FIRISI 
13. OTU47 afga , a art , 

18 . 9147 af97a , T art , 
art 1 

ARSI 
14. 144 wart, art, 

19. 9844 afart, EITTI 
औरंगाबाद । 
15. TTTT afast , TU , 

we afanaal 1 - 6 - 1070 a garat etti 
at TaE 1 

(Ho Tofio 3 /( ano) / 70 ] 
Nagpur, the 23rd Juna 1972 


$ . 0 . 3215. - In exercise of the powerg conferrod on him under sub - goction 124 of the Income- tax Act, 1961 ( 43 of 1961) and all other 
powrsonabling him in this behalfand in guperscssion of all the previous or lors on the subject, the Commission of Incomctax , Vidarbha 
Aud Marathwada ,Nagpur , direct that the Incom -tax Officer shown in Col . 3 of the Schedule bolow shall exercise powers of an Income 
tax ON : r 1 rogpect ofarcas , porgons or classes ofpargons , income or classes of incomes and /or casos or classes of cases falling within that 
iurisdiction shown against their namos specifically transferrod u /8 5 (7A ) of the Indian Income- tax Act , 1972 or 127 of the Income- tax Act, 
1961 to any othor incom : -tax officer : 


SCHEDULE 


Si. 


Nanc of Circle 


Designation of I- Tax Officor 


Jurisdiction 


Vo . 


I 


2 


4 


MML 


1. Ariranga5a1 


Ineoms-tay Ofcor, A -Ward , 

Aurangabad 


Aurangabat . 


. 


locom -- tax licor , B -Ward , 

Aurangabad . 


I. All Limited Companies Co -operative Societies and Trusts in 

Arirangabad and Bhir Districte . 
II, All Directors of the Limited Companies and Co -operative Societieg 

referred to above and whoso piaco of assessment is in Aurangabad 

and Bhir districts . 
All persons whoge pląco of aggoggmonts In Is Abad Distt, and 

whose income ag per last completed asstt , or where to assessments 
have been completod the return income in any year exceeds 
Rs. 50 ,000 / - as on 1 - 5 - 1970 , 
All partnors of the firms assessol by the ITO , A - Wd. Aurangabad 
Irrespective of the amount of total income of such person if they 
aro assessable in Aurangabad District, 
All now cages in the Distt. of l had out of gurvey Operations or 
othorwise where tho income return exceeds Rs. 30 ,000 ) - and no 

assetts. have been made. 
I All përsons whoso place of assessment in Bihar district and whoso 

income as por the lagt completed asstt, and whero no asso $ gment 
has been completed exceeds Rs. 50 ,000 / - as on 1 - 5 - 1970 , 
All persons whose place of aggtts . ls in Albad Distr, and whogo 
incomo as per last completed asstt, and whoro no asstt. has been 
completed the returned incomo exceeds Rs. 25 , 000 / - but doge not 
cxceed Rs. 50 , 000 /- as on 1 - 5 - 1970 . 
All partners of the film assogged by the ITO , B -Ward , A ’bad 
irrespective of the total incomo of such persong, if thoy are assosa 
ablo in A bai and Bhir Distt. 
All new casos in Aurangabad and Bhir District out of survey 

operations or otherwise within the incomo limit specified above . 
1. All pursons whogo place of assessment is in Bhir Digtt, and whoso 

Incom ; as por th , last comploted assessment and where no ASSC99 
ment has been completed the return Income excrede Rs. 15 , 000 / 
but jos not exceea Rs. 50 , 000 /- as on 1 - 5 - 1970 . 
All cases of A bad District whose place of assessment is in A ’bad 
district and whose income as per the last completed asstt , and 
whore no assessment has been completod the returned incomo 
excessRs. 15 ,00 ) - but does not excood Rs. 25 , 000 / - as on 1 - 5 - 1970 , 
All partners of the firm assessed by the ITO . C -Ward , Aurangabad , 
Irrospective of the amount of total income of guch persons if they 

aro assessable in Aurangabad and Bhir Districts . 
iv . All now ca909 in A bud and Bhir Distt, arising out of survey 

Operations or otherwiso within the incomo limit gpocified above . 


" . Iringabad 


, 


Incoms- tax Of cor, C - Ward , 
Aurangabad 


Sec. 3 ( i) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972/ ASVINA 29 , 64 


4543 


4 . Aurangabad 


I. 


. Income -tax Officer , D - Ward , 

Aurangabad . 


All persons whose place of assessment is in Aurangabad and Bhir 
Districts and whose incomo as per the last completed assessmonts 
or where no asessment has boen completed the returned Income 
exceedsRs . 10 , 000 / - but does not exceed Rs.15, 000 - - on I - 5 - 1970 . 
All partners of the firm RISesgod by the ITO, D - Ward , A bad 
irrespective of tho amount of total income of such persons if they 
aro assessable in A bad and Bhir Districts . 
All new cases in the Districts of Albad and Bhir out of ourvoy 
operations or otherwise within the incomo limit gpecified abovo . 
All persons in A bad and Bhir Distts, who aro salary earnora and 
persons whoge total income is made up of incomo Only tax 
source or dividend or both i. e. refunds. 
Allporgong whose place of assessment is in A bad and Bhir Districts 
and whose income as por the last completed assessmont of whoro 
no angossment has beo complete the returned incomo does not 
excocd Rs. 10 , 000 - as on 1 - 5 - 1970 . 
Allpartners ofthe firm assesse.l bythe Income tax Officer , E- Ward , 
Aurangabad , irrespective of total income of such persons if they 
are asscasablo in Aurangabad and Bhir Districts . 
All now cases in the Districts of Aurangabad And Bhir out of 
gurvoy operationg otherwise within the locom . limit epocided 
above . 


5 . Aurangabad 


Incomotax Offlcer , E -Ward , 

Aurangabad . 


The order shall take effect from I - 7 - 1970 . 

[ No. IT -9 ( NAG)/70] 

से भिन्न जो भारतीय प्रायकर अधिनियम , 1922 की धारा 5 ( क ) 
नागपुर , 23 जून , 1970 

के अधीन या पायकर अधिनियम , 1961 की धारा 127 के अधीन 
एस० प्रो0 3215 - आयकर अधिनियम , 1961 ( 1961 का किसी अन्य प्रायकर अधिकारी को विशिष्ट रूप से अन्तरित कर 
43 ) की धारा 124 द्वारा उसे प्रदत्त शक्तियों और इस निमित्त दिए गए हों , नीचे दी गई अनुसूची के स्तम्भ 4 में , उनके नामों के 
उसे ममर्थ बनाने वाली सभी अन्य शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और सामने दशित अधिकारिता के भीतर आने वाले क्षेत्रों , व्यक्तियों या 
इस विषय पर के सभी पूर्व प्रादेशों को अधिक्रांत करते हुए , पाय व्यक्तियों के वर्गो, प्राय या प्रायों के वर्गों, और / या मामलों या मामलों 
कर अायुक्त. विदर्भ और मराठावाड़ा नागपुर, निदेश देता है कि नीचे के वर्गों के बारे में आयकर अधिकारी की शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
दी गई अनुसूची के स्तम्भ 3 में दर्शित आयकर अधिकारी , उन मामलों करेंगे : 

अनुसूची 
क्रम सं० सकिल का नाम प्रायकर अधिकारी का पवा 

अधिकारिता 
भिधान 


1 


2 


3 


1 . 


औरंगाबाद 


प्रायकर अधिकारी , कवाई , 

औरंगाबाद 


I. औरंगबाद और भीर जिलों में सभी लिमिटेड कम्पनिया, सहकारी 

सोसाइटियां और न्यासें । 
II. उपर -निर्दिष्ट लिमिटड कम्पनियों और सहकारी सोसाइटियों के 

सब निदेशक और जिनका निर्धारण -स्थान औरंगाबाद और भीर 
जिले में है । 
सब व्यमित जिनका निर्धारण - स्थान औरंगाबाद जिले में पौर 
जिनकी अन्तिम संपूरित निर्धारणानुसार प्राय या जहा कोर 
निर्धारण पूरा नहीं हुआ है वहां किसी भी वर्ष विवरणी के अनुसार 
प्राय जितनी कि वह 1- 5 - 1970 को थी , 50, 00030 से अधिक 


IV . प्रायकर अधिकारी , क वार्ड, औरंगाबाद द्वारा निर्धारित फर्मों . 

सब भागीदार, यदि वे औरंगाबाद जिला में निर्धारणीय है , ऐसे 
व्यक्ति की कुल प्राय की रकम को विचार में लाए बिना । 
औरंगाबाद जिला में सर्वेक्षण संक्रियाओं में से या अन्यमा उपमत 
सभी नए मामले जहाँ निधरणी के प्रमुसार प्राय 50, 000 . 
से अधिक है और कोई निर्धारण नहीं किया गया है । 


4344 


INL GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBAR 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 144 


[PAury . 


12 


3 


2. 


औरंगाबाद 


3. पौरंगाबाद 


प्रायकर अधिकारी, ख वार्ड , I. सब ब्यक्ति जिनकानिर्धारण - स्थान भीर जिला में है और जिनकी 
औरंगाबाद 

अन्तिम संपुरित निर्धारणानुसार प्राय और जहां कोईनिर्धारण पूरा 
नहीं हुआ है वहां जितनी कि वह 1-5-1970 को थी , 50, 0005 . 
से अिधक है । । . 
II . सब व्यक्ति जिनका निर्धारण स्थान औरंगाबाद जिला में है और 
जिनकी अन्तिम संपूरित निर्धारणनुसार प्राय और जहां कोई 
निर्धारण पूरा नहीं हुआ है वहां विवरणी के अनुसार प्राय जितनी 
कि वह 1- 5- 1970 को थी , 25, 000 रु० से अधिक है परन्तु 

50, 000रु० से अधिक नहीं है । 
III . मायकर अधिकारी, ख वार्ड , औरंगाबाद द्वारा निर्धारित फर्म के 

सब भागीदार , यदि वे औरंगाबाद और भीर जिले में निर्धारणीय 

हैं , ऐसे व्यक्तियों की कुल प्राय को विचार में लाए बिना । 
IV . उपर विनिर्दिष्ट माय -सीमा के भीतर सर्वेक्षण संक्रियामों में से 

या अन्यथा उवभुत औरंगादाद और भीर जिले में सभी नए 

मामले । 
आयकर अिधकारी, ग वाई , I. सब व्यक्ति जिनका निर्धारण -स्थान भीर जिला में है और जिनकी 
मोरंगाबाद 

अन्तिम संपूरित निर्धारणानुमार प्राय और जहां कोई निर्धारण 
पूरा नहीं हुआ है वहां विवरणी के अनुसार आय, जितनी कि वह 
1 - 5 - 1970 को थी , 15, 000 रु० अधिक है परन्तु 50, 000 

रु० से अधिक नहीं है । 
II. औरंगाबाद जिला के सभी मामले जिनकानिर्धारण स्थान पौरंगावार 

जिला में है और जिनकी अन्तिम संपूरित निर्धारणानुसार प्राय 

और जहां कोई निर्धारण पूरा नहीं हुआ है वहां विवरणी के 
अनुसार प्राय जितनी कि वह 1 - 5 - 1970 को थी , 15, 000 रु० 

से अधिक है , परन्तु 25, 000 रु० से अधिक नहीं है । 
III. आयकर अधिकारी, ग वार्ड, औरंगाबाद द्वारा निर्धारित फर्म 

के सब भागीदार यदि वे औरंगाबाद और भीर जिले में निर्धारणीय 

हैं , ऐसे व्यक्तियों की कुल आय की रकम को विचार में लाए बिना । 
IV . उपर विनिर्दिष्ट आय-सीमा के भोतर सर्वेक्षण संक्रियाओं से या 

अन्यथा उद्भूत औरंगाबाद और भोर जिले में सभी नए मामले । 
आयकर अधिकारी, पवार्ड , I. सब व्यक्ति जिनकानिर्धारण स्थान औरंगाबाद और भीर जिले में है 
औरंगाबाद 

और जिनकी अंतिम संपूरित निर्धारणानुसार प्राय या जहां कोई 
निर्धारण पूरा नहीं हुआ है वहां विवरणी के अनुसार प्राय जितनी 
कि वह 1 - 5 - 1970 को थी , 10, 000/ - रु० से अधिक है , 

परन्तु 15, 000/ - रु० से अधिक नहीं है । 
II . प्रायकर अधिकारी, ध वार्ड , औरंगाबाद द्वारा निर्धारित फर्म के 

सब भागीदार यदि वे औरंगादाब और भीर जिले में निर्धारणीय 

, ऐसे व्यक्तियों की कुल प्राय की रकम को विचार में लाएबिना । 
III . उपर-विनिर्दिष्ट माय-सीमा के भीतर सर्वेक्षण संक्रियाओं से या 

अन्यथा उद्भुत मौरंगाबाद और भीर जिले में सभी नए मामले । 
IV. मोरंगाबाद और भीर जिले में सब व्यक्ति , जो वेतन मर्जक 

और वे व्यक्ति जिनकी कल माय ऐसी प्राय से जिस पर कर केवल 
मोत पर लग जाता है या लाभांणों से या दोनों अर्थात रिफर से 
मिलकर बनी है । 


4. औरंगाबाद 


SEC . 3{ii ; 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 , 1972/ ASVINA 29, 1894 


4545 


12 


5 . औरंगाबाद 


आयकर अधिकारी, कु. I . सब व्यक्ति जिनका निर्धारण स्थान औरंगाबाद और भीर जिले 
वार्ड , औरंगाबाद 

में है और जिनकी अन्तिम संपरित निर्धारणानसार श्राय या जहाँ 
कोई निर्धारण पूरा नहीं हुआ है वहां विवरणो के अनुसार प्राय 
जितनी कि वह 1 - 5 - 70 को थी , 10, 000 रु० से अधिक 

नहीं है । 
II . मायकर अधिकारी, वार्ड, औरंगाबाद द्वारा निर्धारित फर्म 

के सब भागीदार यदि वे औरंगाबाद और भीर जिले में निर्धारणीय 
हैं , ऐसे व्यक्तियों की कुल माय को विधार में लाए बिना । 


III. उपर विनिर्दिष्ट प्राय -सीमा के भीतर सर्वेक्षण संक्रियाओं में से 

या प्रन्यथा उद्भुत औरंगाबाद और भीर जिले में सभी नए मामले । 


यह प्रादेश 1 - 7 - 1970 से प्रभावी होगा । 


स०पा० क० १ ( नाग० ) / 70 


Nagpur , the 30th. June 1970 
S . 0 . 3218.-- The Commissioner of Income -tax, Vidar 
bha and Marathwada, Nagpur, hereby crcates the fol 
lowing new Charge of Income- tax Office in the Office of 
the Additional Commissioner of Income- tax , Vidarbha 
and Marathwada, Nagpur, with effect from 1st July , 
1970 F . N . : --- 


नागपुर 22 जुलाई, 1970 
एस . मो० 3217 . - आयकर आयुक्त , विदर्भ पौर 
मराठवाड़ा , नागपुर, मायकर आयुक्त , विदर्भ और मराठवाड़ा के 
कार्यालय में मायकर अधिकारी ( मुख्यालय ) ( एस . भाई० बी० 
और पी० मार० ) की अधिकारिता, तारीख 24 - 7 - 70 से , 
एतद्द्वारा उत्सादित करता है । 

[ सं० 11- आयकर ( नाग० )/ 70] 


No. 


Designation 


Headquarters, 


( 1 ) 


(३ ) 


I . Additional [ ncome- tax Officer 

(Headquarters ) . 


NAGPUR . 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


[ No . 10 -IT ( NAG ) / 70.. 
नागपुर , 30 जून , 1970 
एस० प्रो० 3216 .. . - आयकर आयुक्त , विदर्भ और 
मराठवाडा , नागपुर , अतिरिक्त प्रायकर प्रायुक्त , विदर्भ और 
मराठवाड़ा के कार्यालय में निम्नलिखित आयकर अधिकारी की 
नई अधिकारिता , 1 जुलाई, 1970 पूर्वाहन से एतद्वारा बनाता 


Nagpur , the 29th July 1970 
S . O . 3218. - ~In exercise of the powers conferred on 
him under sub - section ( 2 ) of section 124 of the Income 
tax Act, 1961 ( 43 of 1961) , the Comissioner of Income 
tax , Vidarbha and Marathwada, Nagpur hereby further 
modifies the Schedule to the notification No. 34 - IT 
(MP ) / 168 dated 20th August, 1968 read with notifica 
tion No . II - IT ( MP) / 67 dated 17th August , 196723 
, nder : -- 
( A ) Against serial No. 11 viz . Income- tax Officer 

Assessment - VIII , Nagpur in column No. 3 tor 
the words and figures " Ward Nos. 18 to 20 and 
Ward No. 21 ( southern side of Bhandara Road ) 
of Nagpur City " , substitute the following: 

“ Ward Nos. 18 to 20 " . 
( B ) Against serial No. 4 vizi. Income - tax Officer , 

Assessment - IV , Nagpur in column 4 for the 
words and figures " Ward Nos. 22 to 24 of 
Nagpur City , substitute the following: - 
" Ward No. 21 ( Southern side of Bhandara 

Road ) , Ward Nos. 22 to 24. " 
This notification shall take effect from 1st August. 
1970. 

[ No . 12- IT ( NAG) 70. ] 


क्रम सं० 


मुख्यालय 


पदाभिधान 

2 


1 


1. अतिरिक्त प्रायकर अधिकारी : नागपुर 
( मुख्यालय ) । 

[ सं० 10प्रा०का ० ( नाग० )/ 70] 
Nagpur, the 22nd July 1970 
S . O . 3217.--- The Commissioner of Income- tax , Vidar 
bha and Marathwada , Nagpur hereby abolishes the 
Charge of I . T . O . ( HQ ) ( S . I. B . & P . R . ) in the Office 
of the Commissioner of Income- tax , Vidarbha and 
Marathwada with effect from 24th July , 1970 . 

[ No. 11 - IT ( NAG ) / 70. ] 


नागपुर , 29 जुलाई, 1970 
का० प्रा०3218.-- - आयकर अधिनियम , 1961 ( 1961 का 
43 ) की धारा 124 की उपधारा ( 2 ) के अधीन उसे प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए, मायकर मायुक्त विदर्भ पोर मराठवाड़ा , नागपुर, 
अधिसूपमा स ० 11- मा . क . ( म०प्र०) / 67 तारीख 17- 8 - 87 


4546 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II. 


नागपुर, 17 सितम्बर , 1970 
एस ० मो० 3210.-.. - बोर्ड की अधिसूचना सं० 
( फा सं ० 55/ 165/ 68--प्रा० क ( ए. आई.), तारीख 
24- 4- 70 के अनुसरण में , आयकर अधिनियम , 1961 ( 1 :061 
का 43 ) की धारा 124 ( 1 ) के अधीन उसे प्रदत्त शक्तियों और 
इस निमित्त उसे समर्थ बनाने वाली सभी अन्य शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हए और अधिसूचना सं० 6 - पा० क ० ( नाग०) / 70, 
तारीख 8 - 5 - 70 के भोशिक उपान्तरण में , आयकर मायुक्त , 
विदर्भ और मराठवाड़ा , नागपुर, एतद्वारा निदेश देता है कि नीने 
दी गई मनुसूची के स्तम्भ में दर्शित आयकर अधिकारी , अधिसूचना 
सं० 6 - पा० ( नाग ० ) / 70 , तारीख 8 - 5 - 70 के स्तम्भ 4 में 
पशित व्यक्तियों के विभिन्न प्रवर्गों के अतिरिक्त , नीचे दी गई 
अनुसूची के स्तम्भ 4 में , उनके नाम के सामने दशित व्यक्तियों के 
बारे में मायकर अधिकारी की शक्तियों का प्रयोग करेंगे । 

अनुसूची 


के साथ पठित अधिसूचना सं0 34 - श्रा ०क ० ( म० प्र०) / 68 
तारीख 20 - 8 - 68 की अनुसूची को निम्नलिखित रूप में और 
प्रागे एसद्वारा उपान्तरित करता है : 

( क ) क्रम संख्या 11 के सामने, अर्थात् , आयकर अधिकारी , 

निर्धारण - VIII , नागपुर स्तम्भ सं0 3 में , 
नागपुर शहर के वार्ड सं0 18 से 20 तक भौर 
संख्या 21 ( भंडारा रोड का दक्षिणी भाग ) " 
जम्बों भोर अंकों के पश्चात् निम्नलिखित प्रति 
स्थापित किया जाएगा : 

"वार्ड सं0 18 से 20 तक " । 
क्रम संख्या 4 के सामने , अर्थात्, आयकर अधिकारी , 
निर्धारण - IV, नागपुर, स्तम्भ 4 में , “नागपुर 
शहर के वार्ड सं0 22 से 24 सक " शब्दों और 
अंकों के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित प्रतिस्थापित 
किया जाएगा : 

" पार सं0 21 ( भण्डारा रोड का दक्षिणी भाग ) 

____ वार्ड सं0 22 से 24 तक " । 
मा मधिसूचना 1 - 8 - 1970 से प्रभावी होगी । 

[ सं० 12- प्रा० क ( नाग०)/ 70 ] 
Nagpur , the 17th September 1970 
S . 0 . 3219. - - In pursuance of Board s notification 
No. 3 ( F . No . 55 / 165 / 68 -IT ( IT ( AI ) dt. 24th April, 1970, 
the Commissioner of Income-tax , Vidarbha and Mara 
thwada, Nagpur , in exercise of the powers conferred 
on him u / 3 124 ( 1 ) of the I . T . Act, 1961 ( 43 of 1961 ) 
and all other powers enabling him in this behalf and 
in partial modification of the notification No . 6 -IT 
( NAG ) / 70 dated the 8th May 1970 , hereby directs 
that the Income- tax Officers shown in column 3 of the 
schedule below shall exercise powers of an Income 
tax Officer in respect of the persons shown againgt 
their names in column 4 of the schedule below in 
addition to the various categories of persons shown 
in column 4 of notification No. 6 - IT ( NAG ) / 70 dated 
the 8th May 1970 . 

SCHEDULE 


अधिकारिता 


क . सकिल मायकर अधि 
सं० का नाम कारी का 

पक्षाभिधान 


1 


2 


3 


1 वेतन प्रथम मायकर ( वर्ग 1 के अधिकारियों से भिन्न 

सकिल अधिकारी, ज्येष्ठ उपमहा लेखापाल , महा 
नागपुर बेतन सकिल राष्ट्र, नागपुर, के कार्यालय 
नागपुर __ में सेवा करने वाले सभी 

राज• पत्रित कर्मचारी । 
2 वेतन द्वितीय आयकर ( वर्ग 1 के अधिकारियों से भिन्न 

सकिल अधिकारी वेतन निदेशक , सपरीक्षा और लेखा 
नागपुर सकिल नागपुर डाकतार नागपुर के कार्यालय में 

सेवा करने वाले सभी राज 
पनित और प्रदाजपमित 
कर्मचारी । 


Jurisdiction 


S . Name of 
No. circle. 


Dosignation of 

Income tax 
Officer . 


I . Salary Circle , 

Nagpur. 


18t Incometax 
Officer, Salary 
Circle , Nagpur . 


All gazetied and non 

gazetted employees 
( Other than Class I 
Oficers ) gerying in the 
Office of the Senior 
Deputy Accountant 
Gencral, Maharashtra 
Nagpur . 


____ 2. 


Do . 


Do. and Incometax All gazetted and non 

Officer , Salary gazetted employees 
Circle , Nagpur, ( Other than Class - I 

Officers ) serying in the 
office of the Director 
of Audit and Accounts , 
Post and Telegraphs , 

Nagpur . 
This notification shall effect take from 1 - 10 - 1970 . 

[ No. 14 -IT ( NAG) .] 


यह अधिसूचना 1 - 10 - 1970 से प्रभावी होगी । 

[सं0 14 - पा० क . ( नाग० ) :] 
Nagpur, the 15th October 1970 
S .O . 3220 . — The Commissioner of Income-tax Vidar 
bha and Marathwada , Nagpur hereby abolishes the 
charges of the Income- tax Officers , C & - Wards, War 
dha with effect from 15th October . 1970 . 

[ No. 18 (IT ) Wardha / 70. ] 
नागपुर, 15 अक्टूबर, 1970 
एस० प्रो० 3220 , आयकर मारात विदर्भ और 
मराठवाडा , नागपुर प्राय -कर अधिकारी ग और घ , वार्ड, वर्षा 
की अधिकारिताओं की तारीख 15 - 10 -- 1970 से एतवद्वारा 
उत्सावित करता है । 

[सं० 18( मा ० ०) वर्धा/ 70] 


DEc. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 

4547 
-- - -- -- - .. 
S , O , 3221 , - In exercise of the powers conferred on 
him under Sub- section ( 1 ) of Section 124 of the 
Income- tax Act , 1961 ( 43 of 1961) and all other powers 
enabling him in this behalf, the Commissioner of 
Income- tax , Vidarbha and Marathwada , Nagpur, here 

III . All Directors of . 
by creates new charges of Income- tax Omcers at 

Limited Conipanies and 
Chandrapur as under ; — 

Cooperatiyc Societies 
referred to above and 

whose place of Assess 
Designation Ileadquarters 

ment is in Wardha 
District . 


am 


Wardha 


Wardha 


Chandrapur 


1 . Income -tax Officer , A - Ward . 

Chandrapur 
2 . Income-tax Officer . B -Ward , 

Chandrapur 


Incometax 
Officer , 
B -Ward , 
Wardha, 


Chandrapur 


I . All persons ( other 
than those whose Case 
have been or may here 
after be assigned to the 
Incometax Officer , A 
Ward , Wardha and 
limited companjeg 
cooperative Socierice , 
their Direccors ) who 
are as9e8sable in Warda 
District . 


- - - - 


- 


-- - 


This notification shull take effect from 15th October , 
1970. 

[ No . 19 (IT ) CH/70. ] 
एस० ओ० 3221 . . पाय -कर अधिनियम , 1961 
( 1961 का 43 ) की धारा 124 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के अधीन 
उसे प्रदत्त शक्तियों और इस निमिन उसे समथ बनाने वाली 
। सभी अन्य शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, प्राय-कर आयुक्त , विदर्भ 

और मराठवाड़ा, नागपुर, पाय -कर अधिकारियों की नई अधि 
कारिताएं चन्द्रपुर में एतदद्वारा निम्नलिखित रूप में बनता है : 


This notification shall take effect from 15- 10- 70 . 

[ No. 20 (IT ) Wardha / 70.] 


अधिकारिता 


मुख्यालय 


एम० ओ० 322 2 पाय - कर अधिनियम , 1961 ( 1961 
का 43) की धारा 124 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के अनुसरण में 
और इस विषय पर के मभी पूर्ववर्ती आदेशों को अधिक्रान्त करते 
हुये , पाय -कर आयुक्त , विदर्भ और मराठवाड़ा , नागपुर , एतद् 
द्वारा निदेश देता है कि इस आदेश से संलग्न अनुसूची के स्तम्भ 
( 2 ) में विनिर्दिष्ट प्राय-कर अधिकारी, उसके स्तम्भ ( 4 ) में 
उल्लिखित क्षेत्रों, व्यक्तियों , ब्यक्तियों के वर्गों, प्रायों, प्रायों के 
वर्गों, मामलों, मामलों के वर्गों के बारे में प्राय-कर अधिकारियों 
के सभी कृत्यों का पालन करेंगे : - - 


1. प्राय-कर अधिकारी, क-वार्ड , चन्द्रपुर 
2. पाय-कर अधिकारी ख- वार्ड, चन्द्रपुर । 


चन्द्रपुर 
चन्द्रपुर 


यह अधिसूचना तारीख 15 - 10 - 70 से प्रभावी होगी । 

[ सं 19 ( प्रा क ) सी एच / 70] 


अनुसूची 


- - - - - - 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - . - .. 


. 


- 


- . - 


- . - - - 


- 


- 


जिला या पाय - कर 


मुख्यालय 


अधिकारिता 


S . O . 3222. - -.In pursuance of sub -section ( 1 ) of sec 
ion 124 of the Income - tax Act , 1961 ( 43 of 1961) and 
n supersession all previous orders on this subject , the 
Commissioner of Income -tax , Vidarbha & Marathwada, 
Tagpur hereby directs that the Income- tux Officers , 
pecified in column ( 2 ) of the schedule appended to 
his order shall perform all the functions of the Income 
ax Officers , in respect of the areas, persons, classes of 
persons , incomes , classes of incomes, cases or classes 
of cases mentioned in column ( 4 ) thereof; - - 

SCHEDULE 


पदाभिधान 


- - 


( 1) 


( 2 ) 


( 3) 


( 4 ) 


DULE 


वर्धा 


वर्धा 


Jurisdiction 


District Designation 

or of the 
irclc Income tax 

Officer 


Head 
quarters 


आय -कर 
अधिकारी, 
क - वार्ड, 


वर्धा 


3 


Vardha 


Wartha 


Incometax 
Officer , 
A -Ward , 
Wardha 


I. All cases as have bcen 
or may hercofier be 

assigned specially 
u / s 127 of the Income 
tax Act , 1961 , 


i. सभी मामले , जो 
प्राय कर अधिनियम , 
1961 की धारा 
127 के अधीन 
विशिष्ट रूप से उसके 
पश्चात् सौंपे गये हों 

या सौपे जायें । 
ii . वर्धा जिले में प्रव 
स्थित सभी कम्प 
नियों और सह 
कारी सोसाइटियां । 


II, ALI companics and 

cooperative Societies 
Located in Wardha, 
Dist . 


- -- 


- - 


- - ----- - - 


4548 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 159-1 


[ PART II -- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


नागपुर 26 दिसम्बर, 1970 


- . . 


- - - 


- 


iii . ऊपर निर्दिष्ट लि 
मिटेड कम्पनियों 
और सहकारी सो 
साइटियों के सभी 
निदेशक और जिनका 
निर्धारण -स्थान वर्धा 
जिले में है । 


एम० ओ० 3223.-- - आयकर अधिनियम , 1961 ( 1961 
का 43 ) की धारा 124 को उपधारा ( 2 ) के अधीन उसे 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुये , प्राय कर पायुक्त , विदर्भ 
मराठवाड़ा, नागपुर, प्राय कर प्रायक्त , मध्य प्रदेश , नागपुर और 
भंडारा , नागपुर, की अधिसूचना सं0 37 - आ० क० ( म०प्र० ) / 
69, तारीख , 29 -- 11 --1969 और आयकर आयुक्त , विदर्भ 
मराठवाडा , नागपुर , की अधिसूचना सं0 13- ग्रा० का० ( नाग० ) 
70, तारीख 29 -- 7 - 70 द्वारा यथा संशोधित अधिसूचना सं० 
23 - पा० का . ( म० प्र० )/ 69, तारीख 4 अक्तूबर , 1969 की 
अनुसूची में यथा निम्नलिखित और आगे उपान्तरण एतद्वारा 
करता है : 


वर्धा 


वर्धा 


प्राय -कर 
अधिकारी , 
ख - वार्ड , 
वर्धा । 


( क ) अनसूची की क्रम मं० 8 और 9 के सामने निम्न 
लिखित रूप में पढ़ा जाएगा : 


। सब व्यक्ति ( उनसे 

भिन्न जिनके मामले 
पाय -कर अधिकारी , 
क - बार्ड, वर्धा को 
इसके पश्चात् सौंपे 
गये हों या सौंपे जायें 

और लिमिटेड कम्प 
नियां , सहकारी सो 
साइटियों और उनके 
निदेशक ) जो वर्धा 
में निर्धारणीय है । 


8. प्रायकर अधिकारी प्रशा- आयकर अधिकारियों , निर्धारण , 
सन , नागपुर 

I, III ,IV, VI , VII, VIII , 
IX , XII और XIV नागपुर , 
नागपुर , द्वारा निर्धारणीय उन 
निर्धारितियों की बाबत आय 
कर अधिनियम , 1961 की 
धारा 140 – क , 141 और 
141 - क के अधीन कृत्य । 


यह अधिसूचना 15 - 10 - 1970 को प्रभावी होगी । 


[ सं० 20 ( प्रा० क० ) वर्धा/ 70] 


9 . आयकर अधिकारी , 
नागपुर , संग्रहण 


Nagpur , the 26th December 1970 


प्रायकर अधिकारियों , निर्धारण , 
I, III , IV , VI, VIII, 
IX , XII , XIV 
नागपुर द्वारा निर्धारणीय उन 
निर्धारितियों की बाबत पाय 
कर अधिनियम , 1961 के 
अध्याय 17 में धारा 214 
से 217 तक छोड़ कर, व्योरे 
वार दिये गये कर संग्रहण और 
वसूली के कृत्य । 


$ . 0 , 3223 . - In excrcise of the powers conferred on 
him under sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 124 of the I . T . 

Act 1961 ( 43 of 1961 ) the C . I. T ., Vidarbha and Mara 
thwada, Nagpur hercby further modifies the schedule 
to the notification No . 23 - IT (MP ) /69 dated 4th Octo 
ber , 1989 as armended by Notification No. 23 - IT ( MP) / 
69 dated 29th November , 1969 of C . I . T . , M . P . , Nag 
pur and Bhandara , Nagpur and No . 13 - IT ( NAG ) / 70 
dated 29th July . 1970 of C . I. T . , Vidarbha and Mara 
thwada Nagpur as under : - - 
* ( A ) Against S . Nos. 8 and 9 of the schedule read as 
tollows: 
(8 ) Income- tar Officer Administration , Nagpur. - . 

Functions under sections 140 - A 141 and 141 - A 
of the I . T . Act, 1961 in respect of those asses 
sees assessable by the I . T . Os. Asstt . I , III , IV , 

VI, VII, VIII, IX , XII, and XIV Nagpur . 
( 9 ) Income- tar Officer Collection , Nagpur -- Func 

tions of collection & Recovery of tax as detail 
ed in Chapter XVII of the I. T , Act, 1961 cxcept 
sections 214 to 217 in respect of those assessees 
assessable by the I . T . O s Asstt. I, III, IV , VI, 
VII, VIII , IX , XII, and XIV , Nagpur. 


( ख ) तारीख 4 - 10 - 1969 के आदेश का पैरा ( ख ) काट 
दिया गया है । 

यह अधिसूचना 1 जनवरी, 1971 से प्रभावी होगी । 


[स० 25 - (प्रा० क० नाग० )/ 70 ] 


( B ) Para ( b ) of the order dated 4th October , 1969 
is deleted. 

This notification shall take effect from 1st January , 
1971 . 

[ No. 26 (IT - NAG ) / 70. ] 


Nagpur, the 6th April 1971 
S . O . 3224 , — The Commissioner of Income- tax , Vidar 
bha and Marathwada , Nagpur, hereby abolishes the 
Charges of the Income -tax Offlcers D & E Wards , 
Aurangabad, with effect from 1st May , 1971 . 


[ No . 27 (IT ) Jalna / 71 .] 


Sec . 3 ( 1) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4549 


FTTI 6 


T , 1971 


1922 or 127 of the Income-lax Act 1961 to any other 
Income- tax Omcer : - - 

SCHEDULE 


H . Q . 


Jurisdiction , 


District 
Or 
Circle 


Designation 

of the 
I. T . O . 


Roto 3224 - 7777 , faca uta 
मराठवाड़ा , नागपुर, आयकर अधिकारी, घ और ड वाई औरंगा 
ats it aftraftard areta 1 €, 1971 # STEERT 
उत्साहित करता है । 

[ro 27 ( HTO # 10 ) HAT/ 71 ] 


Auranga- Income- tax Aurangabad ( 1 ) All limited , Com 
bad Officer , 

Ponics, Co - operative 
A - Ward 

societjes in Aurangabad 
Aurangabad 

and Bhir Districts ex 
cluding the following 
Talykas viz . Jolna. goya 
gaon Bho kardan , Am 
bad and Jafrabad . 


$ . O . 3225 . — In exercise of the powers conferred on 
him under sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 124 of the 
Income- tax Act, 1961 ( 43 of 1961 ) and all other powers 
enabling him in this behalf, the Commissioner of 
Income- tax , Vidarbha & Marathwada , Nagpur, hereby 
creates new Charges of Income- tax Officers at Jalna, 
as under : 


( 2 ) All Directors of limi 

ted companies and co 
operative Societies 
referred to above and 
whose place of 288e88 
ment is in Auror gabad . 
and Bihar Districts ex 
cluding Talukas mon . 
tioned in item No . 1, 


Designation 


Headquarters 


- 


- 


. 


Jalna 


1 . Income- tax Omcer , A -Ward , 

Jalna 
2 . Income- tax Officer, B -Ward 

Jalna 


Jalna . 


(3 ) All persons whose the 

place of 199¢ & sment is 
in Aurangabad Taluka 
of Aurangabad District, 


( 4 ) All partners of the 

firma 498eo6cd by the 
I. T . O . A - Word , Auran 
gabad . 


This notification shall take effect from 1st May, 1971, 

[No. 28 ( IT ) Jal./ 71. ] 
Toto 3225 : - - 917 

1961 
( 1961 Ft 43 ) # OTOT 124 pt 3URT ( 1 ) get 
उमे प्रदत शक्तियों और इम निमित्त उसमे समर्थ बनाने वाली 
सभी अन्य शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हये , आयकर ग्रायुक्त विदर्भ 

और मराठवाड़ा , नागपुर, जालना के प्राय कर अधिकारियों की 
नई अधिकारितायें निम्नलिखित रूप में एतद्द्वारा बनाता है : - - 


(5 ) All new casal arising 

out of survey opera 
tjong or otherwise in 
Abad taluka 


( 6 ) A11 trusts falling with 

in jurisdiction of all 
It Ost. of Nanded 
Latur and A bad . 


पदाभिधान 


मुख्यालय 


Auranga - 
bad 


Auranga- Income- tax 
bad tax . Oficer , 

B -Ward 
Auranga 

bad . 


1. 97747 f * T T, F - TS 
जालना 

जालना 
2. 4797 # ft , c - art , 
जालना 

जालना 


( 1 ) All persons whose 

place of assessment is 
in Bihor and A bad 
Districts excluding 
Aurangabad , Jalna , 
Soyagaon , Bhokardan , 
Ambad and Jafrabad 

Talukas . 
( 2 ) A11 partners of the 

firms assessed by the 
ITO , B - Ward , Auranga 
bad . 


VIII 


-- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


E Afungai artta 1 Fr , 1971 À Thretti 

[* • 28 (970 # 0 ) 1790 / 71 ] 


(3 ) All new cases arising 
out of survey Operat 
tions or otherwise in 
Bihar and Aurangabad 
Districts excluding 
Aurangabad , Jana, 
Soyagaon , Bhokardan . 
Ambed and Jafarabad 
Talukas 


Auranga 
bad 


$ . 0 . 3226 . - In exercise of the powers conferred on 
him under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 124 of the Income 
tax , 1961 ( 43 of 1961) and all other powers enabling 
him in this behalf and in supersegsion of all the pre 
vious orders on the subject, the Commissioner of 
Income-tax , Vidarmha and Marathwada, Nagpur, 
directs that the Income tax Officers shown in Col. 3 
of the Schedule below shall exercise powers of an 
Income- tax Officer in respect of persons or classes of 
persons, incomes or classes of Incomes and / or cases or 
classes of cascs falling within the jurisdiction shown 
against their names in col. 4 of the Schedule below 
other than those whose cases have been specifically 
transferred u / s 5 ( 7A ) of the Indian Income-tax Act, 


Auranga - ſncomctax 
bad Oficer , 

C - Ward , 

Auranga 
gabad 


( 1 ) All persons of Auran 

gabad and Bhir 
Districtswho are salary 
earners and persons 
whose total income is 
made up of income 
only from tax -deducted 
at source or dividend 
or both , 


4550 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II 


District. 


H . Q . 


Jurisdiction , 


District 


H . Q . 


Jurisdiction 


or 


Designation 

of the 
I . T . O . 


or 


Designation 

of the 
___ ITO. 


Circle 


Circle 


Jalna Incometax Jalna , ( 1 ) All cases as have been 
Circle , Officer , 

or may hercaſter be Jalna Incometax Talna ( 1 ) All persons ( other 
Dist. A - Ward , assigned specifically 

Officer , 

than those whoac casco 
Aurang- Jalna , under section 127 of 

B -Ward , 

have or may hereafter 
obad . the Incometax Act, 1961 

Jana. 

beassigned tothe Income 
tax Officer , A -ward , 

Tolna and limited com 
( 2 ) All compenics and co 

Panies , co - operative 
Operative 

Rocieties , their Dire 
in the following Talu 

ctors, Djrectors and all 
kas : Jalna . Soyegaon. 

Trusts) who are assess 
Bhokardan , Ambad 

able in the following 
and Jafrabad . 

Talukas Jalna, soye 

geon , Bhokardan and 
( 3 ) All : Directors of a 

Ambad of Aurangabad 
limited companies and 

District . 
cooperative societies 
referred to above and 

--- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - 
whose place of assegg 
ment jsin Talukas men 

This Notification shall take cffect from 1 - 5 - 1971. 
tioned above . 

___ No. 29 ( IT ) Jal/ 71 ] 
एस० प्रो० 3236. -- प्रायकर अधिनियम , 1961 ( 1961 का 43 ) की धारा 124 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के अधीन उसे 
प्रवत्त शक्तियों और इस निमित्त उसे समर्थ बनाने वाली सभी अन्य शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हये , और इस विषय पर के सभी पर्व प्रदेशों 
को प्राधिकान्त करते हए , आयकर प्रायुक्त , विदर्भ और मराठवाड़ा, नागपुर , निदेश देता है कि नीचे दी गई अत सूची के स्तम्भ3 में 
दशित प्रायकर अधिकारी , उन मामलों से भिन्न , जो भारतीय प्रायकर अधिनियम , 1922 की धारा 5 ( 7क ) के अधीन या प्रायकर 
अधिनियम , 1961 की धारा 127 के अधीन किसी अन्य प्रायकर अधिकारी को विशिष्ट रूप से अन्तरित कर दिये गये हों , नीचे दी गई 
अनुसूची के स्तम्भ 4 में उनके नामों के सामने दर्शित अधिकारिता के भीतर आने वाले क्षेत्रों , व्यक्तियों और व्यक्तियों के वर्गों और पायों 
के वर्गों और/ या मामलों या मामलों के वर्गों की बाबत आयकर अधिकारी की शक्तियों का प्रयोग करेंगे : --- 

अनुसूची 


जिला या सर्किल 


मुख्यालय 


अधिकारिता 


आयकर अधिकारी का 
. " पदाभिधान 


। 


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 


- -- 


पौरंगागाद 


प्रायकर अधिकारी, क - वाई, 

औरंगाबाद 


औरंगाबाद 


( 1 ) निम्नलिखित तालुकों, अर्थात जालना , सोयागांव , 

भोकरदान , आवंड और जाफराबाद छोड़कर 

औरंगाबाद और भीर जिले में सभी लिमिटेड कम्प 
नियों , सहकारी सोसायटियां । 
( 2 ) ऊपर निर्दिष्ट लिमिटेड कम्पनियों और सहकारी 

सोमाइटियों के सभी निदेशक और जिनका निर्धा 
रण -स्थान मद सं० 1 में वर्णित तालुकों को छोड़कर 

औरंगाबाद और भीर जिले में है । 
( 3 ) सब व्यक्ति जिनका निर्धारण स्थान औरंगाबाद 

जिला के औरंगाबाद तालक में है । 
( 4 ) आयकर अधिकारी, क वार्ड, और औरंगाबाद 
__ द्वारा निर्धारित फर्मों के सभी भागीदार । 
( 5 ) औरंगाबाद तालुक में सर्वेक्षण संक्रियामों से 

या अन्यथा उद्भूत सभी नए मामले । 
( 6 ) नान्देड , लातुर और औरंगाबाद के सभी 

आयकर अधिकारियों की अधिकारिता के भीतर 
पाने वाली सभी न्यासें । 


SEC. 3 ( 1) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972/ ASVINA 29, 1894 


4551 


3 


- 


- 


- 


- 


औरंगाबाद 


औरंगाबाद 


गायकर अधिकारी,प्रवाई 


औरंगाबाद 


गायकर अधिकारी , ख - वाई , 

औरंगाबाद 


औरंगाबाद 


औरंगाबाद 


प्रायकर अधिकारी , ग बाई , 

औरंगाबाद 


जालना 


जालना सकिल , 
औरंगाबाद जिला 


आयकर अधिकारी , क - वाई , 
जालना 


( 1 ) सब व्यक्ति जनका निर्धारण -स्थान औरंगाबाद , 

जालना , सोया गांव , भोकरदान , पाबंड और 
जाफराबाद तालकों को छोड़कर भीर और औरंगा 

बाद जिले में है । 
( 2 ) आयकर अधिकारी, ख -वार्ड , औरंगाबाद 

द्वारा निर्धारित फों के सभी भागीदार । 
( 3 ) मोरंगाबाद, जालना , सोयागांव , भोकरवान , 

पाबंड और जाफराबाद तालकों को छोड़कर भीर 
और औरंगाबाद जिले में सर्वेक्षण संक्रियाओं से 

या अन्यथा उद्भन सभी नये मामले । 
( 1 ) औरंगाबाद और भीर जिले के सब व्यक्ति , 

जो वेतन अर्जक हैं और वे व्यक्ति जिनकी कुल 
आय , ऐसी प्राय से जिस पर कर केवल स्रोत पर 
लग जाता है या लाभांशों से या दोनों से , मिल कर 

अनी है । 
( 2 ) सभी मामले, जो आयकर अधिनियम , 1981 

की धारा 127 के अधीन विशिष्ट रूप से सौंप 
दिये गये हों या इसके पश्चात् सौंपे जायें । 
निम्नलिखित तालुकों : जालना, सोयागांव , 
भोकरदान , मोबड और जाफराबाव , में सभी 
कम्पनियां और सहकारी सोसाईटियो । 
कार निर्दिष्ट लिमिटेड कम्पनियों और सहकारी 
सोसाइटियों के सभी निदेशक और जिनका 

निर्धारण -स्थान उपर- णित तालुकों में है । 
( 1 ) सब व्यक्ति ( उनसे भिन्न , जिनके मामले प्रायकर 

अधिकारी , क - वार्ड, जालना को सौंप दिये गये 
हो या इसके पश्चात् सौंपे जायें और लिमिटेड 
कम्पनियों , सहकारी सोमाइटियां , उनके निदेशक 

और मभी न्यासें ) जो औरंगाबाद जिला के निम्न 
लिखित तालकों, जालना , सोयागांव , भोकरदान 
पीर आवंड में निर्धारणीय है । 


जालना 


जालन 


आयकर अधिकारी, ख - वाई, 
जालना 


यह अधिसूचना 1 - 5-- 1971 से प्रभावी होगी । 


[ सं० 29 ( ग्रा० क० ) जाल0 / 71 ] 


WEALTII - TAX 


Nagpur , the 3rd March 1971 
S . O . 3227. In exercise of the powers conferred on 
him under section 8 of the Wealth - tax , Act, 1957 and 
all other powers enabling him in this behalf, the Com 
missioner of Wealth - tax , Vidarbha and Marathwada , 
Nagpur hereby modifies the Notification No . WT - 7 / 68 
69 dated 4th September 1968 , as amended from time to 
time as under : 
For paras (b ) and ( c ) , substitute the following: - 
( b ) The Wealth - tax Officer ( Administration ) shall 

perform the functions under Section 15 - B and 


15- C of the Wealth -tax Act, 1957 in respect of 
all persons assessable by the Wealth - tax Off 
cers , Assessment- I, III, IV , VI , VII, VIII , IX , 
XII and XIV . 
The Wealth -tax Officer (Collection ) shall per 
form the functions of Collection and recovery 
of tax in respect of all persons assessable by 
the Wealth - tax Officers , Assessment - I, III, IV . 
VI, VII, VIII, IX , XII and XIV . 


.. This notification shall take effect from 15th March , 
1971 . 

Ng. 28. 


- - 


4552 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 1972/ ASVINA 29 . 1804 

[ PART II -- 

- - - 
( धन -कर ) 

S . 0 . 3229. - Shri K . S , K . Murty , Chief Auditor in 

the office of the Commissioner of Income- tax , Vidarbha 
नागपुर, 3 मार्च, 1971 

and Marathwada , Nagpur is hereby appointed to hold 
in addition to his own duties , the newly created charge 

of the office of the Income - tax Officer, ( Recovery ) 
एस० ओ० 3227. ---धन- कर अधिनियम , 1957 की 

Nagpur . 
धाग 8 के अधीन उमे प्रदत्त शक्तियों और इम निमित्त उमे 

[ No. 31. ] 
समर्थ बनाने वाली सभी अन्य शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हये , 

एम० ओ० 3 229 . ~- प्रायकर आयुक्त , विदर्भ और मराठ 
धनकर प्रायुक्त विदर्भ और मराठवाड़ा, नागपुर , ममय समय 

वाला नागपुर कार्यालयके श्री के ० एम० के० मुर्ति , मुभ्य संपरीक्षक 
पर यथा संशोधित अनुसूची सं० ध० क० - 7 / 68- 69 तारीख 

को , अपने कर्तव्यों के अतिरिक्त आयकर अधिकारी ( वसूली ) 
4 - 9 - 1968 में यथा निम्नलिखित उपान्तरण एतद्द्वारा करता 

नागपुर के कार्यालय की नई बनाई गई अधिकारिता को धारण 

करने के लिए एतद्वारा नियुक्त किया जाता है । 
पैरा ( ख ) और ( ग ) के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित प्रतिस्थापित 
किया जाये : - - 

[सं0 31 ] 
( ख ) धन-कर अधिनियम , 1957 की धारा 15 - ख 

Nagpur, the 15th October 1970 
और 15 - ग के अधीन , धन-कर अधिकारी ( प्रशासन ) , धन -कर 

S . O , 3230 . -- In exercise of the powers conferred on 
अधिकारियों , निर्धारण - I, III , IV , VI , VII , VIII, IX him by sub - section ( I ) of section 123 of the Income-- 

tax Act, 1961 ( 43 of 1961 ) and all other powers en 
XII और XIV द्वारानिर्धारणीय मभी व्यक्तियों abling him in this behalf , the Commissioner of Income 

tax , Vidarbha & Marathwada, Nagpur, hereby makes 
की बाबत कृत्यों का पालन करेगा । 

the following amendments in the schedule appended 
( ग ) धन -कर अधिकारी ( संग्रहण ) . धन -कर अधिका 

to the notification No. IT - 3 (NAG ) /70, dated 11th May , 

1970 viz .: 
रियों निर्धारण -I, III, IV, VI, VII, VIII , 

" Against S . No . 2 viz . Inspecting Assistant Com . 

missioner of Income- tax. Range - II, Nagpur" . 
Ix , XII और XIV द्वारा निर्धारणीय सभी 

Following shall be deleted under cl. 3 . 
ध्यक्तियों की बाबत करके संग्रहण और वसूली 

S . No . 12 I . T . O ., C - Ward, Wardha , 
के कृत्यों का पालन करेगा । 

S . No. 13 I. T .O ., D -Ward , Wardha . 

and 
यह अधिसूचना 15 - 3-- 1971 से प्रभावी होगी । 

Following shall be added under clause 3 . 
[सं० 26 ] at S . No. 12 I . T . O ., A -Ward . Chandrapur 

S . No. 13 I. T . O ., D -Ward , Wardha, 
ORDERS 

This order shall take cffect from 15th October, 1970 . 
Nagpur, the 5th October 1970 

___ [ No. 17 IT ( NAG ) / 70. ] 
S . O . 3228, - Conscquent on the abolition of the post 
of Additional Income-tax Officer , ( HQ) vide this office 

नागपुर , 15 अक्तूबर, 1970 
Notification No. 16 ( IT ) (NAG ) / 70 of even date , Shri 
R. M . Krishhan, Additional Income- tax Officer ( HO ) 

एम० प्रो0 3230. - प्राय -कर अधिनियम , 1961 ( 1961 
in the office of the Additional Commissioner of Income 
tax , Vidarbha and Marathwada, Nagpur in hereby ap 

का 43) की धारा 123 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के द्वारा उससे प्रदस्त 
pointed as Income- tax Officer, ( HQ ) ( P. R . & S . I. B . ) 

शक्लियों और इस निमित्त उमे समर्थ बनाने वाली अन्य 
in the office of the Commissioner of Income- tax , 
Vidarbha and Marathwada . Nagpur with iddediate सभी शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हये , पाय -कर आयुक्त , विदर्भ 
effect. 

और मराठवाड़ा, नागपुर, अधिसूचना सं० प्रा० कo - 3( नाग० ) 
[ No. 30. ] 

170, तारीख 11 - 5 - 70 से संलग्न अनुसूची में निम्नलिखित 
आदेश 

संशोधन एतद्वारा करता है, अर्थात् : 
नागपुर , 5 अक्टूबर , 1970 

"क्रम सं० 2 के सामने , अर्थात् सहायक प्राय - कर पायुक्त 
एम० प्रो० 3228. - -- अतिरिक्त आयकर अधिकारी 

(निरीक्षण ) रेंज - ii , नागपुर " 
( मुख्यालय ) के पद उल्मादित करने के परिणाम स्वरूप ( इस 

खण्ड 3 के नीचे निम्नलिखित काट दिया जाएगा । 
कार्यालय की उसी तारीख की अधिस चना सं० 16 ( प्रा० क० ) 

क्रम सं० 12, प्रा० क०, अधि० , ग - --वार्ड, बर्धा । 
( नाग ०) / 70 देखिए ) , अतिरिक्त प्रायकर पायुक्त , विदर्भ और 

क्रम सं० 13, प्रा० क० अधि०, घ - वाई, वर्धा । 
मराठवाड़ा , नागपुर, कार्यालय के श्री प्रार० एम० कृणन ; 
अतिरिक्त आयकर आयुक्त ( मुख्यालय ) को , प्रायकर आयुक्त ; 

खण्ड 3 के नीचे निम्नलिखित जोड़ा जाएगा और 

क्रम मं० 12 प्रा० क० अधि० , क - वाई, चन्द्रपुर । 
विदर्भ और मराठवाड़ा नागपुर , कार्यालय में प्रायकर अधिकारी 

क्रम सं० 13 प्रा० क० , अधि० , ख -~-वाई, चन्द्रपुर । 
( मुख्यालय ) ( पी ० पार ० और एम० आई० वी० ) के रूप में 

यह आदेश 15 - 10 - 70 से प्रभावी होगा । 
एतद्वारा नियुक्त किया जाता है । 

[ सं ० 30] 

[ सं० 17- प्रा० क० (नाग०) / 70] 


Notific. Krishbit the Adarathwada 
, HQ 


P. incomediante 


SEC. 3 ( iin 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4553 


Nagpur , the 6th April 1971 


141 - Nanded / 69 - 70 ( Tech.), dated the 28th March, 1970 
issued by the then CIT , Poona: 

( a ) The following shall be added as item IV in Col . 
4 against the entiry of the I . T . O . B - Ward, Nanded : 


S . O . 3231 --- In cxcrcise of the powers conferred 0 ] 
him by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 123 of the Income 
tax Act , 1961 ( 43 of 1961 ) and all other powers en 
abling him in this behalf the Commissioner of Income. 
tax , Vidarbha and Marathwada , Nagpur hereby make 
the following amendments in the schedule appended to 
the notification No . IT - 3 ( NAG ) / 70 dated 11th May , 
1970 viz.: 
" Against S . No . 3 viz . Inspecting Assistant Com 

missioner of Income- tax, Akola Range , Akola . " 
Following shall be deleted under Col. 3 : 

Sr. No . 14 I . T . O . D - Ward , Aurangabad 

Sr . No. 15 I . T . O . E -Ward , Aurangabad 
Following shall Added under Col. 3 : 
at Sr. No. 14 J . T . O . A - Ward , Jalna 

Sr. No. 15 I . T . O , B - Ward, Jalna. 


This order shall take effect from 1st May, 1971 . 

[ No. ITI / ( NAG) / 71. ] 


नागपुर , 6 अप्रैल , 1971 


एस० प्रो० 323 1. - - प्रायकर अधिनियम , 1961 
( 1961 का 43 ) की धारा 123 की उपधाग ( 1 ) द्वारा उसे 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों और इस निमिन उसे ममर्य बनाने वाली 
सभी अन्य शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुये , पायकर आयुक्त , 
विदर्भ और मराठवाड़ा , नागपुर , अधिमूचना सं० प्रा० क० 

3 ( नाग० ) / 70, तारीख 11 - 5 - 1970 से संलग्न अनसूची में 
निम्नलिखित संशोधन एतद्वारा करती है , अर्थात् : --- 
" क्रम सं० 3 के सामने , अर्थात् महायक प्रापकर आयुक्त , 

(निरीक्षण ) अकोला रेंज , अकोला " । 
स्तम्भ 3 के अधीन निम्नलिखित को काट दिया 
जाएगा : -- - 
क्र० मं० 11 प्रा . क . अ . घ -वाई , औरंगाबाद 
क्रम सं० 15 प्रा० न० प्र० ई - वाई , औरंगाबाद 

और 


or otherwise within the area and income limit 
specified above " . 

[ No. J -47 ( 5 - Nanded ) / 70. ] 
शुद्धिपत्र 

नागपुर , 30 जन , 1970 
एग० ओ० 32.3.2. -~ ~- ग्रायकर अधिनियम , 1961 
( 19661 का 13 ) की धारा 124 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त 
शक्तियों और इस निमिन उसे समर्थ बनाने वाली मभी अन्य 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , पायकर आयुक्त , विदर्भ और 
मगठबाड़ा , नागपुर , पाद्वारा निदेश देता है कि आयकर आयुक्त , 
पूणे , द्वारा जारी किए गए प्रादेश सं० 141 नान्देड / 69 - 70 
( तक० ) तारीख 28 मार्च, 1970 में निम्नलिखित संशोधन 
किए जाएं : 
( क ) प्रायकर अधिकारी , ख - वाई, नान्देड , प्रविष्टि 

के सामने , स्तम्भ 4 में , मद IV के रूप में , निम्न 
लिखित जोड़ा जाएगा : 

" IV ऊपर -विनिर्दिष्ट क्षेत्र और प्राय- सीमा 
के भीतर सर्वेक्षण संक्रियाओं में से या अन्यथा 
उद्भत सभी नए मामले " 

- [सं० जे - 47 ( 5-- नान्देड )/ 70 ] 
S . O . 3233 , — In exercise of the powers conferred on 
him by sub- Section ( 1 ) of Section 123 of the Income 
tax Act , ( 43 of 1961 ) and all other powers enabling 
him in this behalf . the Commissioner of Income- tax , 
Vidarbha and Marathwada , Nagpur, hereby makes the 
following amendments in the schedule appended to 
the notification No , IT - 3 ( NAG ) / 70 dated 11th May , 
1970 viz. 
" Against S . No . 3 vic. Inspecting Assistant Com 

missioner of Incoinc - tax, Akola Range, Akola 
under Col. 3 the following shall be added : 

S. No. 15 : ITO , E -Ward , Aurangabad . 
The cxisting serial nuinber vit . 15 to 18 is re-arrang 
ed as S . Nos . 16 to 19. 

[ No. IT ( NAG ) / 70. ] 

V . J . KARNIK , 

Commission of Incomc-tax . 
एम० प्रो० 32 33.--- प्रायकर अधिनियम , 1961 
( 1961 का 43) की धारा 123 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों और इम निमित उसे समर्थ बनाने वाली मभी अन्य 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करने हए , आयकर आयुक्त , विदर्भ और 
मराठवाड़ा , नागपूर , अधिसूचना मं० आयकर - 3 ( नाग० ) / 70 
तारीख 11 - 5 - 700 से संलग्न अनुसूची में निम्नलिखित संशोधन 
एतद्वारा करता है, अर्थात् : 
" क्रम सं० 3 के मामने अर्थात् महायक प्रायकर आयुक्त 

(निरीक्षण ) अकोला रेंज, अकोला, स्तम्भ 3 
के नीचे निम्नलिखित जोड़ा जाएगा : 
क्रम सं० 15 : आयकर अधिकारी, उ० वार्ड , 

औरंगाबाद । 


स्तम्भ के प्रधाननिम्नलिखित को जोडा जागा: -- 
क्रम० सं० 14 प्रा० क० , अ० क -वाई , जालना । 
क्रम . सं . 15 प्रा० क० अ० ख - वार्ड, जालना । 


यह प्रादेश 1-- 5 - 1971 से प्रभावी होगा । 


[सं० प्रा० क ० ( नाग० )/ 70] 


CORRIGENDA 

Nagpur , the 30th June 1970 
S . O . 3232 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
gub - section ( 1 ) of Section 124 of the Income- tax Act, 
1961 ( 43 of 1961 ) and all other powers enabling him 
in this behalf, the Commissioner of Income- tax , Vidar 
bha and Marathwada, Nagpur, hereby directs that the 
following amendments shall be made to the Order No . 


4554 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II 


विद्यमान क्रम सं० , अर्थात् 15 से 18 तक , क्रम संख्या 16 से 
19 तक के रूप में पुनः संख्यांकित की जाती है । 

, [सं० आयकर ( नाग० )/ 70 ] 
वी० जे० कणिक, प्रायकर आयुक्त । 


MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND POWER 

New Delhi, the 28th July 1972 
S . O . 3234. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 3 of the Electricity ( Supply ) Act , 1948 (54 of 
1948 ) and in partial modification of this Ministry s 
Notification No, EI.. 11 - 28 ( 9 ) / 71 dated the 20th July , 
1971, the Central Government hereby appoints Shri N . 
Venkatesan, Member ( Utilization ) , Central Water and 
Power Commission ( Power Wing ) , as a Member of the 
Central Electricity Authority vice Shri B . N . Ojha , 

[ No. EL.II - 28 ( 8 ) / 72. ] 

M. RAMANATHAN, 

Deputy Director ( Power ) . 
सिंचाई और विद्युत मन्त्रालय 

नई दिल्ली , 28 जुलाई , 1972 

एन० प्रो० 3234.- - बिजली ( सप्लाई ) अधिनियम , 
1948 ( 1948 का 54 ) के खण्ड 3 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए और इस मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना सं० 
बि० दो - 28 ( 9)/ 71, दिनांक 20 जुलाई, 1971 में आशिक 
संशोधन करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा श्री एन० वेन्कटेसन 
सदस्य ( समुपयोजन ) , केन्द्रीय जल और विद्युत् प्रायोग (विद्युत 
स्कंन्ध ) , को श्री बी० एन० प्रोझा के स्थान पर केन्द्रीय बिजली 
प्राधिकरण के सदस्य के रूप में , नियुक्त करती है । 

__ [सं० वि०-दो - 28 ( 8)/ 72 ] 

एम . रामनाथन , 

उपनिदेशक । 


नौवहन और परिवहन मंत्रालय 

(परिवहन पक्ष ) 

नयी दिल्ली , 3 अगस्त , 1972 
का ० प्रा० 3235.-- - भारतीय दोपघर अधिनियम , 1927 
( 1927 का 17 ) की धारा 4 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के अनुसरण 
में , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा श्री के ० के ० शेट्टी, सदस्य , लोक सभा 
को केन्द्रीय सलाहकार समिति के सदस्य के तौर पर नियुक्त करती है 
और भारत सरकार के नौवहन और परिवहन मन्त्रालय ( परिवहन 
पक्ष ) की अधिसूचना संख्या सा० श्रा०1 421 दिनांक 19 फरवरी , 
1972 में निम्नलिखित संशोधन करती है , अर्थात् : 

उक्त अधिसूचना में मद 14 और तत्संबधी प्रविष्टि में निम्न 
लिखित मद और प्रविष्टि प्रतिस्थापित की जाएगी , अर्थात् : 

"14 श्री के ० के ० शेट्टी , 

सदस्य , लोक सभा , 
नवकेतन पाडिल , 
मंगलोर - 7. 
दक्षिण कनाड़ा जिला , 
मैसूर राज्य । ” 

[ संख्या फा ० 4-एम एल ( 7)/ 71] 

बा ० ० साहीं, अवर सचिव । 


- - - 


- - 


- . . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


. . 


.- - . .. 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


MINISTRY OF SHIPPING AND TRANSPORT 

( Transport Wing ) 
New Delhi, the 3rd August 1972 
S . 0 . 3235 . — In pursuance of sub - Section ( 1 ) of sec 
tion 4 of the Indian Lighthouse Act, 1927 ( 17 of 1927 ) , 
the Central Government hereby appoints Shri K . K . 
Shetty , Member , Lok Sabha to be a Member of the 
Central Advisory Committee and makes the following 
amendment to the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Shipping and Transport Tra 
nsport Wing ) No. S . O . 1421 dated the 19th February , 
1972, namely : 

In the said notification, for item 14 and entry relating 
thereto , the following item and entry shall be subs 
tituted , namely : 
" 14. Shri K . K . Shetty , Member, Lok Sabha 

Navketan Padil, Mangalore - 7 , South Kanara 
District, Mysore State. ". 

[ No. F. 4- ML (7 ) / 71 . ] 
B . K . SAHI, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND 

BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 13th July 1972 
S . O . 3236 . - In cxercise of the powers conferred by 
Section 5 ( 1 ) of the Cinematograph Act , 1952 and sub 
rule ( 3 ) of rule 8 read with sub-Iule 2 of rule 9 of 
the Cinematograph ( Censorship ) Rules , 1958, the 
Central Government hereby re - uppoints the following 
persons after consultation with the Central Board 
of Film Censors as members of the Adyisory Panel 
of the said Board at Bombay with effect from 1st 
July , 1972 upto 30th September , 1972 ; — 

1 . Shri Kamaleshwar 
2 . Smt . Dinabai K . Dubash 
3. Prof . K . G . Aggarwal 
4 . Shri S. S . Rege 
5 . Prof. ( Smt. ) Vijaya Rajadhyaksha 
6 . Shri D . G . Nadkarni 
7 . Prof. Murli Thakur 
8 . Shri G . K . Dutia 
9 . Dr. (Smt. ) Charusheela B. Gupta 
10. Smt . Kamala Tilak. 
11. Smt . Padma K . Desai . 
12. Dr. (Miss ) Labuben S . Soneji 
13. Smt. Nalini S . Sukthankar . 
14 . Smt. Maniben Desai 
15. Smt. T . V . Dehejle 
16 . Smt. Laxmi Wahi 
17 . Shrt S . D . Shab 
18 . Shri Ganga Ram Joshi 
19 . Shri Rama Narang . 
20 . Shri U . A . Thadanl . 
21. Shri R . K , Soni, 
22. Shrl S. E, Hassnain 
23. Smt . Kamala Dua. 
24. Shri Talakshi Shah 


SEC. 3( ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4555 


. 


- 


- 


- 


" 


25 . Shri Rajnarain Singh . 
26 . Smt . R. S . Boga. 
27. Shri M . N . Siddiqi . 
28. Shri A. K . Banerjee . 
29 . Smt. Indira Dhanraj Girji, 
30 . Shri Rasik J . Shah , 
31 . Smt . Mrinalini Choksi . 
32. Smt. Lalita N . Bapat. 
33. Smt . S. Gulrajani. 

[ No. F . 11 / 3 / 72- FC .] 


32 . श्रीमती ललिता एन० बापट 
33. श्रीमती एस ० गुलरजानी 

[ संख्या० फा० 11/ 3/ 72-एफ० सी०] 


सूचना और प्रसारण मत्रालय 


नई दिल्ली, 13 जुलाई, 1972 
एम ० ओ ०3 236. - - चलचित्र अधिनियम , 1952 की धारा 
5 ( 1 ) और चलचित्र ( सेंसर ) नियमावली, 1958 के नियम 9 
के उपनियम ( 2 ) के साथ पठित नियम 8 के उप -नियम ( 3 ) द्वारा 
प्रदत्त अधिकारों का प्रयोग करते हए, केन्द्रीय सरकार ने केन्द्रीय 
फिल्म सेंसर बोर्ड से परार्मश करके एतदद्वारा निम्नलिखित व्यक्तियों 
को पहली जुलाई , 1972 में 30 सितम्बर , 1972 तक, उक्त बोई 
के बम्बई सलाहकार पॅनल का फिर से सदस्य नियुक्त किया है : 
1 . श्री कमलेश्वर 
2 . श्रीमती दोनाबाई के ० दुबार 
3 . प्रो ० के ० जी० अग्रवाल 
4 . प्रो० ( श्रीमती ) विजया राजाध्यक्ष 
5 . श्री एस ० एस ० रेगे 
6 . श्री डी०जी० नादकर्णी 
? . प्रो०मुरली ठाकुर 
8 . श्री के ० जी ० दुतिया 
9. डा० ( श्रीमती ) चारशीला बी ० गुप्त 
10 . श्रीमती कमला तिलक 
11 . श्रीमती पदमा के ० देसाई 
12 . डा० ( कुमारी ) लबबन एस सीनेजी 
13. श्रीमती नलिनी एस ० सुखकर 
14. श्रीमती मणिबेन देसाई 
15. श्रीमती टी०वी . देहेजिया 
16. श्रीमती लक्ष्मी वाही 
17. श्री एस ० डी० शाह 
18 . श्री गंगाराम जोशी 
19. श्री राम नारंग 
20 . श्री यू ० ए ० थडानी 
21 . श्री पार के ० सोनी 
22. श्री एस ० ई० हसनेन 
23 . श्रीमती कमला दुना 
24 . श्री तलाक्षी शाह 
25 . श्री राजनारायण सिंह 
26 . श्रीमती आर ० एस ० बोगा 
27 . श्री एम एन सिद्दीकी 
28 . श्री ए० के ० बनर्जी 
29. श्रीमती इन्दिरा धनराज गिरजी 
30 . श्री रसिक जे ० शाह 
31 . श्रीमती मणालिनी नौकसी 


S . O . 3237. In exercise of the powers conferred by 
Section 5 ( 1 ) of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 , and 
Sub-rule ( 3 ) of rule 8 read with Sub -rule ( 2 ) of rule 
9 of the Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules , 1958 , the 
Central Government hereby re - appoints the following 
persons after consultation with the Central Board of 
Film Censors , as members of the Adyişory Panel of 
the said Board at Madras with effect from 1st July , 
1972 upto 30th September, 1972 : 

1. Shri T . Neclakanthan. 
2 . Smt. Soundra Kailasam . 
3 . Shri Pakala Suryanarayana Rao . 
4 . Shri Mohd . Yousuf Kokan , 
5 . Shri M . Govindan. 
6 . Smt. C . L , Meenakshi Amma. 
7 . Shri P . V . Chalapatheswara Rao . 
8 . Prof. M . Mariappa Bhat . 
9 . Smt . Mary Clubwala Jadhav . 
10 . Shri P . K . Ramalingam . 
11. Shri G . Varadappa. 
12, Smt. R . Suvarna. 
13. Smt . Ammu Swaminathan. 
14 . Smt. P . V . Bhagirathi. 
15. Smt . Bertha Lobo . 
16 . Smt. Indira D . Kothari. 
17. Smt. Malati Chendur . 
18. Shri C . R . Sarma . 
19. Shri P . S. Srinivasa. 
20. Sint. Raji Rangachari. 
21 . Smt . Padmini Achutha Menon. 
22. Smt . N . S . Mani. 
23. Dr. S . Vijayalakshmi . 
24 , Smt. Leela Parthasarathi. 
25 . Kumari P . Shanta Bai. 
28. Smt . M . Leelavathi. 
27. Smt. Sarojini Varudappan . 
28. Smt. Rohini Krishnachandra . 
29 . Dr . ( Miss ) C . M . Leelavati . 
30 . Smt. Hemiata Anjaneyulu . 
31 . Smt. Sara Syed Yusuff . 

[ No. F. 11/ 4 / 72 - FC. ] 


__ एस० ओ० 3237. - - चलचित्र अधिनियम , 1952 की धारा 
5 ( 1 ) और चलचित्र (सेंसर ) नियमावली 1958 के नियम 9 के 
उपनियम ( 2 ) के साथ पठित नियम 8 के उपनियम ( 3 ) द्वारा 
प्रदत अधिकारो का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार ने एतवधारा 
केन्द्रीय फिल्म सेंसर बोर्ड से परामर्श करने के बाद , निम्नलिखित 
व्यक्तियों को 1 जुलाई, 1972 से 30 सितम्बर, 1972 तक , 
उक्त बोर्ड के मद्रास सलाहकार पैनल का सदस्य फिर से नियुक्त किया 


1 . श्री टी० नीलकंतन 
2 . श्रीमती सौन्द्रा कैलायम 
3. श्री वकाला सूर्यनारायण राव 

. श्री मोहम्मद युसूफ कोकण 
5 . श्री एम . गोविन्दन 
, श्रीमती सी० एल० मीनाक्षी अम्मा 
. श्री पी . वी . चलपतेश्वर राव 
8 . प्रो० एम० मरिअप्पा भटट् 
8 . श्रीमती मेरी कलबवाला जादव 


4556 


fHE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART 11 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


4 . श्रीमती शैय्या दस्त 
6 . श्रीमती आशा पूर्णा देवी 
7 . श्रीमती रीता रे 
8 . श्री सुजीत के० चक्रवर्ती 
9 . श्री प्रार० पी० गुप्त 
10 . श्री अनन्त महापात्रा 
11 . श्री सौमयेन्द्र नाथ टैगोर 

. श्रीमती उषा खान 
13 . श्री रानेन अयन दत 
14 . श्रीमती जयश्री सेन 

[ संख्या फा० 11/ 5/ 72- एफ० ( सी ) ] 
S . O . 3239, - In excrcise of the powers conferred by 
Sub - section ( 1 ) of section 3 of the Cinematograph 
Act, 1952, the Central Government hereby re- appoints 
the fol.owing persons as members of the Central 
Board of Film Censor s with effect from 1st July , 
1972 upto 30th Septeinber , 1972:- - 
Sl. No. 

Name. 

.. - - . - - . ---- - - 
Shri B . R . Agarwal. 
Shri A . L . Srinivasan. 
Shri B . R . Chopra. 
Shri B . N. Sircar . 
Smt. Vcena Duggal, 
Smt . M . Nasrullah, 
Smt. Surrinder Gupta . . 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


10 . श्री पी . के . रामलिंगम 
11 . श्री जी० वरदप्पा 
12. श्रीमती पार० सुवर्ण 
13 . श्रीमती अम स्वामीनाथन 
14. श्रीमती पी०वी० भागीरथी 
15. श्रीमती अर्था लोबो 
16 . श्रीमती इंदिरा मालती चन्दूर 
18 . श्री सी . आर . शर्मा 
19 . श्री पी० एस० श्रीनिवास 
20 . श्रीमती राजी रंगाचारी 
21 . श्रीमती पदिमनी अचुता मेनन 
22 . श्रीमती एन . एस . मणि 
23 . डा० एस० विजयालक्ष्मी 
24 . श्रीमती लीला पार्थसारथी 
25 . कुमारी पी० शान्ता बाई 
26 . श्रीमती एम . लीलावती 
27 . श्रीमती सरोजिनी वरदप्पन 
28 . श्रीमती रोहिणी कृष्णचन्द्र 
29 . डा० ( कुमारी ) सी० एम० लीलावती 
30 . श्रीमती हेमलता अंजनयूल 
31. श्रीमती सारा सैयद युसूफ 

[ संख्या फा० 11/ 4/ 72 - एफ० सी० ] 
S . O . 3238 , In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 5 ( 1 ) of the Cinematograph Act , 1952 and sub 
rule ( 3 ) of rule 8 read with sub -rule ( 2 ) of rule 9 of 
the Cinematograph ( Censorship ) Rules , 1968, the Cen 
tral Government hereby ree - appoints the following 
persons after consultation with the Central Board of 
Hum Censors, as members of the Advisory Panel of 
the said Board at Calcutta with effect from 1st July , 
1972 upto 30th September , 1972 :--- - 

1 . Smt . Urma Sahanabis . 
2 . Shri Sailen Mookerji . 
3. Smt. Kajal Sen Gupta. 
4 . Smt. Abu Sayeed Ayyub . 
5 . Smt. Shaibya Dutt. 
6 . Smt. Asha Purna Debi, 
7. Smt. Rita Ray. 
8 . Shri Sujit K . Chakrabarti . 
9 . Shri R. P . Gupta . 
10 . Shri Anant Mahapatra. 
11 . Shri Saumyendra Nath Tagore . 
12 . Smt. Usha Kan . 
13. Shri Ranen Ayan Dutta . 
14. Smt. Jayasree Sen. 

[ No. F . 11 / 5 / 72- FC. ] 
एस० प्रो० 3238. -- चलचित्र अधिनियम 1952 की धारा 
5 ( 1 ) और चलचित्र ( सैसर ) नियमावली 1958 के नियम 9 के 
उपनियम ( 2 ) के साथ पठित नियम 8 के उपनियम ( 3 ) द्वारा 
प्रदत्त अधिकारों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार ने एतवद्वारा 
केन्द्रीय फिल्म सेंसर बोर्ड से परामर्श करने के बाद निम्नलिखित 
व्यक्तियों को 1 जुलाई , 1972 में 30 मिनरबर , 1972 तक , उक्त 
बोर्ड के कलकत्ता सलाहकार पैनल का फिर से सदस्य नियुक्त किया है : 

1 . श्रीमती उमा सहानवीस 
2 . श्री सेलन मुखर्जी 
3 . श्रीमती काजल सेनगुप्त 


- 


- 


- 


- 


[ No . F . 11 / 6 / 72 - FC. 1 

S . N . MITAL , Under Secy . 
एस० प्रो० 3239. - - चलचित्र अधिनियम , 1952 की धारा 
3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त अधिकारों का प्रयोग करते हुए 
केन्द्रीय सरकार ने एतद्वारा निम्नलिखित व्यक्तियों को 1 जुलाई 
1972 से 30 सितम्बर , 1972 तक , केन्द्रीय फिल्म सेंसर बोर्ड का 
फिर से सदस्य नियुक्त किया है : 
क्रम संख्या 

नाम 
श्री बी० आर० प्रवाल 
श्री ए . एल . श्रीनिवासन 
श्री बी . आर . चोपड़ा 
श्री बी . एन . सरकार 
श्रीमती बीना दुग्गल 
श्रीमती एम . नसरूल्लाह 
श्रीमती सुरेन्द्र गुप्त 


-- 


- 


[ संख्या फा० 11 / 6/ 72एफ० सी० ] 
एस० एन० मित्तल , अवर सचिव । 


New Delhi , the 2nd. August 1972 
S . O . 3240. - - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
Sub - section (2 ) of Section 5 of the Cinematograph 
Act, 1952 , the Central Government has been pleased 
to appoint Shri Pramod Pati, Deputy Chief Producer, 
Films Division , Bombay as Regional Officer, Central 
Board of Film Censors , Bombay with effect from 
24th July , 1972 ( forenoon) until further orders. 

[ No . 2 / 38 / 72 - FC.] 
By order and in the name of the President. 

S . N . MITAL , Under Secy. 


SEC . 3( ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA, 29 , 1894 


4557 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- - - - - - 


सम 


1 


+ - - - गान 


. . . . 


. 


नई दिल्ली , 2 अगस्त , 1972 

- -Frime 
: एम० प्रो० 3 24 (1. - - चलचिन्न अधिनियम , 1952 की धारा 
5 की उपधारा ( 2 ) के द्वारा प्रदत्त अधिकारों का प्रयोग करते हए , 
केन्द्रीय सरकार ने फिल्म प्रभाग, बम्बई में उप मुग्न्य प्रोड्यमर श्री 
प्रमोद पति को 24 जुलाई, 1972 (पूर्वान्ह ) में अगले आदेश तक , 
प्रादेशिक अधिकारी , केन्द्रीय ममर बोई , बम्बई नियुका किया है : 


के स्थान पर विदेश व्यापार मन्त्रालय में निदेशक , श्री आर . एम . 
डोईफोडे को केन्द्रीय रेशम बोर्ड के एक स्दस्य के रूप में एतद्वारा 
नियुक्त करती है और भारत मरकार के विदेश व्यापार मन्त्रालय 
की अधिसूचना मं० का . आ . 15 22 दिनांक 23 अप्रैल , 1970 
में और आगे निम्नलिखिन संशोधन करती है , अर्थात् : 

उक्त अधिसूचना में क्रम संख्या 1 के सामने निम्नलिखित 
को प्रतिस्थापित किया जायेगा , अर्थात : 

" श्री आर . एम . डोईफोडे, 


[ संख्या फा० 2/ 38: 72-एफ० ( सी ) ] 
राष्ट्रपति के नाम में तथा उनके प्रादेशानुसार 

एस०एन० मित्तल , अवर सचिव । 


विदेश व्यापार मन्त्रालय " । 

_ [सं० फा० 21 /1/ 70-टक्स (एफ०) ] 

आर ० एम० डोईफोडे, निदेशक । 


MINISTRY OF FOREIGN TRADE 

New Delhi , the 29th July , 1972. 
S . O . 3241 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause ( b ) of sub - section. ( 3 ) of section 4 of the Central 
Silk Board Act, 1948 (61 of 1:948 ), the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints the Texiile Commissioner , Minis 
try of Foreign Trarle , Government of India as a member 
of the Central Silk Boari for a period of three years 
from the date of issue of this notification . 

___ No. F. 21 / 1 / 70- Tex ( F). ] 
विदेश व्यापार मन्त्रालय 


New Delhi, the 3rd August , 1972 . 
S . 0 . 3243. - In cxercise of the powers conferred by 
sub -section ( 1 ) of section 17 of the Textiles Committee 

Act , 1963 ( 41 of 1963 ) , and on the recommendation 
made to it in this behalf by the Textiles Committee , the 
Central Government hereby makes the following 
amendment in the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Foreign Trade, No. S . O . 2200 , 
dated the 28th May, 1971 ( as amended by the notifica 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Forcign Trade , No. S . O . 209 , dated the 26th November , 
1971 ) , namely : 
In the said notification in the proviso , for the 

words "one year ", the words " elghteen 
months " shall be substituted . 

[ No. F. 25011 / 34/ 71- Tex A.] 

N . C . RUSTAGI, Under Secy. 
नई दिल्ली , 3 अगस्त , 1972. 


नई दिल्ली , 29 जुलाई, 1972 
का० प्रा० 3241 .---. केन्द्रीय रेशम बोर्ड अधिनियम 
1948 ( 1948 का 61 ) की धारा 4 की उपधारा ( 3 ) के खण्ड 
( ख ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार 
वस्त्र प्रायुक्त, विदेश व्यापार मन्त्रालय , भारत सरकार, को 
इस अधिसूचना के जारी होने की तारीख से तीन वर्ष की अवधि 
के लिए केन्द्रीय रेशम बोर्ड के एक सदस्य के रूप में एतद्द्वारा 
नियुक्त करती है । 

[ मं० फा0 21/ 1/ 70-टेक्स (एफ ) ] 


S . 0 . 3242 . . . In exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause ( b ) of sub- sectJon ( 3 ) of Section 4 of the Central 
Silk Board Act, 1948 (61 of 1948) , the Central Govern 

ment hereby appoints Shri R. M . Doiphode, Director , 
Ministry of Foreign Trade as a member of the Central 
Silk Board in place of Shri Daulat Ram , Under Sec 
retary, Ministry of Foreign Trade and makes the 
following further amendment in the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Foreign 
Trade No. S . O . 1522. dated the 23rd April, 1970 . 
namely : 

In the said notification against serial number 1, the 
following shall be substituted . namely : -- 
" Shri R . M . Dolphode. Director, Ministry of Foreign 
Trade. " 

| No. F . 21/ 1 / 70 - Tex ( F ). ] 

R . M . DOIPHODE, Director. 
का० प्रा० 3 24 2. -.- केन्द्रीय रेशम बोर्ड अधिनियम , 
1948 ( 1948 का 61 ) की धाग 4 की उपधारा ( 3 ) के 
खण्ड ( ख ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय 
सरकार , विदेश व्यापार मन्त्रालय में अवर मचिव श्री दौलत राम 


का० प्रा० 3243.-- - वस्त्र समिति अधिनियम , 1963 
( 1963 का 41 ) की धारा 17 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और वस्त्र समिति द्वारा इस निमित्त 
उसे की गई सिफारिश पर , केन्द्रीय सरकार भारत सरकार के 
विदेश व्यापार मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना सं० का० प्रा० 2200 , 
तारीख 28 मई , 1971 ( भारत सरकार के विदेश व्यापार 
मन्त्रालय की अधिसूचना सं० का० प्रा० 209 , तारीख 26 
नवम्बर, 1971 द्वारा यथा संशोधित ) में एतद्वारा निम्नलिखित 
संशोधन करती है , अर्थात् : 

उक्त अधिसूचना में , परन्तुक में , “ एक वर्ष शब्दों के स्थान 
पर " अठारह महीने " शब्द प्रतिस्थापित किए जायेगे । 

[ सं० फा० 250 11 / 34/ 71- टेक्स ( ए) ] 

एन० सी० रुस्तगी, अवर सचिव । 


(Office of the Chief Controller of 
Imports and Exports ) 

ORDER 
New Delhi, the 7th July , 1972 . 
S . O . 3244 . - - M / s. Gobind Ram & Song Ludhiana , who 
were granted Import licence No. P / D / 2174388 / C / XX / 


4558 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II 


- - . . . . 


- - - - - - - - -- -- - - - - - - - - - - 
dated 25th August, 1970 for Rs. 5 ,830 from Central Area 
for import of one capston slide complete for capston 
lathe as permissible spare parts of machinery required 
for the manufacture of Sewing machines, have request 
ed for suye of duplicate copy of the Customs Purpose s 
copy of the liernce on the ground that the original Cus 
toms copy has been lost by Customs House , Bombay . 
It has been further reported by the licencee that the 
said licence was lost without having utilised at all and 
was not registered with any of the customs authorities, 
The licencee has , however , clcared the goods on bond 
procedure haşis . 


2 . In support of their contention the applicant has 
filed an affravit. The undersigned is satisfied that the 
original customs purposes copy of the Licence No. P / D / 
2174388 / C / XX. dated 25th August , 1970 has been Jost 
and directs that a duplicate customs purposes copy of 
the said licence should be issued to them . The original 
customs purposes copy of the said licence is hereby 
cancelled. 


[ No. SM/ 1 ( E ) / 70. 71 / RMI / 1068. ] 


G . D . BAHL , 
Dy. Chief Controller of Imports & Exports. 


मुख्य नियंत्रक , आयात -निर्यात का कार्यालय 


आदेश 


नई दिल्ली, 7 जुलाई , 1972 


(Office of the Chief Controller of 
Imports and Exports ) 

ORDER 
New Delhi, the 2nd August 1972 
S . 0 . 3245.- - The Chief Electrical Engineer , Assam 
State Electricity Board , Shillong was granted licence 
No. G / AU / 1034839, dated 23 - 2 - 68 for import of com 
ponents for PLCC equipment from GCA The Chief 
Electrical Engineer , Assam State Electricity Board , 
Shillong has reported that custom purposes copy of 
the licence has been misplaced and he has requested 
to issue duplicate copy of the same. 

In support of his contention the applicant has filed 
an affidavit. The undersigned is satisfied that the 
customs purposes copy of the licence has been lost 
and directs that the duplicatc copies of the said cus 
toms copy of the licence be isgued , 

The original customs copy of the licence has been 
cancelled . A duplicate copy of the game is being issu 
ed separately . 

[ No. 2]SG/339/ 67. 88| PLS| B|539.] 

By Order , 

SARDUL SINGH , 
Dy . Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, 
for Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 
मुख्य नियंत्रक , पायात -निर्यात का कार्यालय 

आदेश 

नई दिल्ली, 2 अगस्त, 1972 
__ एम० प्रो० 3245. -- मुख्य विद्युत अभियंता, असम 
प्रदेश विद्युत बोर्ड ,शिलांग को सामान्य मुद्रा क्षेत्र से पी एल सी सी 
उपस्कर के लिए संघटकों के आयात के लिए एक लाइमेंस संख्या 
जो / 1034839,दिनांक 23- 2- 68 प्रदान किया गया था । 
उन्होंने सूचना दी है कि लाइसेंस की सीमाशुल्क निकासी प्रति 
प्रस्थानस्थ हो गई है और उन्होंने लाइसेंस की सीमाशुल्क निकामी 
प्रति की अनुलिपि के लिए आवेदन किया है । 

अपने तर्क के समर्थन में आवेदक ने एक शपथपत्र दाखिन किया 
है । अधोहस्ताक्षरी संतुष्ट है कि लाइसेंस की मीमाशुल्क निकामी 
प्रति खो गई है और निदेश देता है कि उक्त लाइसेम की भीमा 
शुल्क प्रति की अनलिपि आवेदक को जारी की जाए । 

लाइसेंस की मूल सीमाशुल्क निकासी प्रनि रद्द कर दी गई है । 
उसको अनुलिपि प्रावेदक को अलग से जारी की जा रही है । 
[ संख्या 2/ एम जी / 339/ 67-68/ पी एल एम/ बी / 539 ] 

प्रादेग मे , 

मरदूल सिंह , 
उप -मुख्य नियंत्रक , प्रायान -निर्यात , 
कृते मुख्य नियंत्रक, आयात-निर्यात । 


972 


एस० मो० 3244. - सर्वश्री गोविन्द राम एंड संस , 
लुधियाना को सामान्य मुद्रा क्षेत्र से मिलाई की मशीन के निर्माण 
के लिए आवश्यक मशीनों के अनुमित पूजों के रूप में कैप्स्टन लीथ के 
लिए एक कैप्मेटन स्लाइड कम्पलीट के आयात के लिए 5, 830 रु० 
के लिए आयात लाइसेंस सं० पी / टी / 2174388/ मी / एक्स एक्स 
दिनांक 25 - 8 - 1970 प्रदान किया गया था । उन्होंने लाइसेंस 
की सीमाशुल्क प्रयोजन प्रति की अनुलिपि प्रति के लिए इस आधार 
पर अनुरोध किया है कि मीमाशुल्क कार्यालय , बम्बई द्वारा मूल 
सीमाशुल्क प्रति खो गई है । लाइमेंमधारी द्वारा आगे यह बताया 
गया है कि उक्त लाइसेंस का कुछ भी उपयोग नहीं किया गया था 
और उसे किसी भी सीमाशुल्क कार्यालय में पंजीकृत नहीं कराया 
गया था । लेकिन , लाइसेंसधारी ने बौंड प्रक्रिया के आधार पर माल 
की निकासी कर ली है । 


अपने सर्क के समर्थन में आवेदक ने एक शपथ पत्र दाखिल 
किया है । अधोहस्ताक्षरी संतुष्ट है कि लाइसेंम सं०पी/ डी / 2174388 
सी / एक्स एक्स दिनांक 25 - 8 --1970 की मूल सीमाशुल्क 
प्रयोजन प्रति खो दी गई है और निदेश देता है कि उक्त लाइसेंस 
की अनुलिपि सीमाशुल्क प्रयोजन प्रति उन्हें जारी की जानी चाहिए । 
उक्त लाइसेंस की मूल सीमाशुल्क प्रयोजन प्रति को एतद्द्वारा 
प्रादेश से रद्द किया जाता है । 


[ संख्या एम. एम/ 1 ( ई) / 70- 71 / प्रार. एम. I/ 1068] 


(Omce of the Joint Chief Controller of 

Imports and Exports ) 

ORDER 
Bombay, the 3rd November . 1970. 
s . o . 3248. -. Licence Nos. P / S / 1643179, dated 23rd 
October , 1969 , for Rs. 5 , 625 for import of N . E . oils of 
permissible types as per AM - 70 Red Book Aniline , Beta 


जी० डी० बहल , 
उप मुख्य नियंत्रक प्रआयात -निर्यात । 


SEC. 3 ( i) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 21, 1891 


4559 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- 


Napthol and (2 ) P / S / 1643180 , dated 23rd October , 
1969 for Rs. 5 ,625 for import of N . E . Oils Aromatic 
Chemicals and Aniline were issued to M / s . Mahendra 
Chemicals, 4 / 41 Pardeshipura Indore, Madhya Pradesh, 
subject to the conditions as under :-- - 

that the goods imported thercunder shall be utili 

sed in their factory and no portion thereof 
shall be sold to any other party or utilised or bo 

permitted to he lised in any other manner." 
2 . Thereafter, a show cause notice No . 1 / 123 / 70 / AU / 
Enf / 3545, dated 23rd Julv, 1970 was issued asking them 
to show cause within 15 days as to why the said licences 
in their favour should not be cancellad on the ground 
that tho aforesaid licences were obtainent by them 
by misrepresentation offacts in terms of Cause 9 . Sub 
Clause ( a ). 

3 . No reply to the aforesaid show cause notice issued 
to M / s . Mahendra Chemicals . Incore has come within 
the period stipulated in the said show cause notice . 

4 . The undersigned has carefully considered the matter 
and have come to the conclusion that the licences in 
question were obtained by them by misrepresentation 
of tacts , 

5 . Having regard to what has been stated in the 
precerling paragraph the undersigned is satisfied that 
the licences in question should be cancelled or other 
wise rendered ineffective . Therefore , the undersigned . 
in exercise of the powers vested in her under Clause ! 
Sub -Clause ( a ) of the Imports ( Controll Order 1955 
hereby cancels the licences Nos . P / S / 1643179 dated 23rd 
October, 1969 for Rs . 5 , 625 and ( 2 ) P / S / 1613180 dated 
23rd October . 1969 for Rs. 5 ,625 issued in favour of M / s . 
Mahendra Chemicals Indore- 2 . 

[ No. 1 / 23 / 70 / AU / Enf. ] 

R . D. MANGAT. 
Dy . Chlef Controller of Imports & Exports, 


अनुसार क्यों न रद्द कर दिए जाने चाहिए , और वे इस प्राधार 
पर कि उपर्युक्त लाइसेंस उनके द्वारा गलत तत्वों के आधार पर प्राप्त 
किए गए थे । 
3. सर्वश्री महेन्द्र केमिकल्ज , इन्दौर के नाम जारी किए 
गए उक्त कारण बानो नोटिस के लिए उसमें दी गई निर्धारित 
अवधि के भीतर कोई उत्तर प्राप्त नहीं हुआ है । 
4. अधोहस्ताक्षरी ने मामले की भलि भांति जांच कर ली है 
और इस परिणाम पर पहुंचा है कि विषयाधीन लाइसेंस उनके 
द्वारा गलत तत्वों के आधार पर प्राप्त किए गए थे । 
5. उपर्यक्त कंडिका में जो बताया गया है उसे ध्यान में 
रखते हुए, अधोहस्ताक्षरी इससे सन्तुष्ट है कि विषयाधीन लाइ 
सेंस रद्द अथवा अन्यथा रूप से अप्रभावित किए जाने चाहिए । 
इसलिए, अधोहस्ताक्षरी, पायात (नियंत्रण ) प्रादेश, 1955 की धारा 
9, उप-धारा ( ए) के अर्न्तगत प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए 
लाइसेंस संख्याएं पी / एम / 1643179 दिनांक 23-- 10 69 मूल्य 
5, 625 रुपये तथा ( 2 ) पी / एस ) 1643 180 दिनांक 23 - 10 - 69 
मूल्य 5, 625 रुपये जो सर्वश्री महेन्द्र केमिकल्ज , इन्दौर - 2 के 
नाम जारी किए गए थे , एतद्वारा रद्द करता है । 

[ सं० 1/ 123/ 70/ एयू / ई एन एफ ] 

आर० डी० मंगल , 
उप-मुख्य नियंत्रक , प्रायात-निर्यात । 


(Office of the Dy. Chief Controller of 

Imports and Exports ) 

ORDER 
Ernakular , Cochin , the 4th April 1972 
S . O . 3247, — The following import licences were issued 
to M / s. Y . B . R . Industry , Kochangadi, Cochin- 2 subject 
to actual user conditions under the registered exporters 


___ policy : - -- 


मुख्य नियंत्रक, प्रायात -निर्यात का कार्यालय 

प्रादेश 

बम्बई , 3 नवम्बर , 1970 
एम० श्रो० 3246 . - सर्वश्री महेन्द्र केमिकल्ज , 4 / 41 
परदेशीपुरा , इन्दोर म० प्र० को अप्रैल-मार्च, 1971 रैउ बक 
के अनुसार स्वीकृत किस्म के एन० ई० पायल , एनिलीन , बीटा 
नप्यौल के आयात के लिए 5, 625 रुपये का प्रायात लाइसेंस 
सं० पी०/ एस0 / 1643179 निदांक 23- 10-1969 तथा एन . 
ई० पायल, एरोमैटिक केमिकल्ज तथा एनिलीन के प्रायात के 
लिए 5, 625 रुपये का पायात लाइसेंस सं० पी० / एम0/ 1643180 
दिनांक 23- 10 - 1969 निम्नलिखित शर्तों के आधीन स्वीकृत 
किए गये थे : 


"कि इन के अन्र्तगत आयातित माल का उपयोग उनके कार 
खाने में किया जायेगा और उस का कोई भी भाग किसी अन्य पार्टी 
को बेचा नहीं जाएगा अथवा उपयोग नहीं किया जायगा अथवा 
अन्य किसी रूप से उपयोग करने के लिए स्वीकृति नहीं दी जाएगी । " 


1 . P / L / 2594894, daled 9th July , 1969 for Rs. 5, 203 , 
2 . P / L / 2595129 ; dated 14th October , 1969 for 

Rs . 16, 447. 
3. P / L / 2595378, dated 1st January 1970 for 

Rs. 6 ,599 . 
4 . P / L / 2595697, dated 10th March, 1970 for 

Rs. 3 , 492. 
5 . P / L / 2618800, dated 22nd June, 1970 for 

Rs. 11, 167 . 
6. P / L / 2618962, dated 20th August, 1970 for 

___ Rs. 11, 040. 
7 . P / L / 2611193. dated 7th November , 1970 for 

Rs. 11, 508. 
2 . Thereafter. a show cause notice No . Chn- 17 - 71 -72 ) 
Enf., dated 23rd December , 1971 was issued asking them 
to show cause within 15 days as to why the aforesaid 
licences in their favour should not be cancelled on the 
ground that the licences will not serve the purpose for 
which they were granted , 

3 . In response to the aforesaid show ( ause notice , 
M / s. Y . B . R . Industry had vide thcir letters dated 31st 
December . 1971 and 14th March, 1972 furnished explana 
tion and had also asked for a personal hearing with the 
undersigned . For personal hearing one Sri P . V . 
Raghunath said to be a Representative of the Arm , 


2. सत्पश्चात् , एक कारण बताओ नोटिम सं . 1/ 123/ 70/ 
ए००/ ई एन / एफ / 3545 दिनांक 23 - 7 - 70 यह पूछते हाए जारी 
की गई थी कि 15 दिनों के भीतर कारण बताएं कि उनके नाम 
में जारी किए गये उक्त लाइमेन धारा 9, उप-धारा ( ए) के 


4560 


THF GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II . 


- - 


- . . . - 


- 


appeared before the undersignea . None of the part 
ners of the firm called on the undersigned for personal 
hearing . In their reply it was contented that the unit 
was not closed and that the unit would be revived after 


जारी किए गए उपयुक्त लाइंसस वयं न रद कर दिए नाने चाहिए 
और यह इस प्राधार पर कि उपयुक्त लाइसेस जिस प्रयोजन के लिए 
रवोकत कए गए थे वह उस पूर न करेंगे । 


certain stocks of processed shrimps in the Cold storage 
of certain other unit. At the time of processed hearing 
the representative admitted that due to inanclal dit 
culties the unit was closed for the time being . They 
contented that in and around Kerala there was dearth 
of ratches and financial set due to steep fall of price in 
America and exporters were facing big crisis . They 
expected to reylve their industry when they get finan 
clal aid from the bankers and therefore , the raw mate . 
rials against the licences issued were quite essential 
and required . 

4 . The undersigned has carefully examined the sald 
representation and has come to the conclusion that: 
" the unit is not functioning and that they hold some 

stocks of processed shrimps with certain cold 
storage would not prove the fact of their work 
Ing and on the other hand there was clear 
evidence avallable in show that the unit has 
been closed anl the whereabouts of the part 
ners were not known to the sponsoring authori 
tles . Their expectation to revive the industry 
At a future date for utilisation of the import 
licences cannot be accepted . The Director of 
Fisheries had clearly reported that the firm 

have closed down. 
Having regard to what has been stated in the preced 
ing paragraph , the undersigned is satisfied that the 
licences in question should be cancelled or otherwise 
rendered ineffective. Therefore the undersigned, in 
exercise of the powers vested in him under clause 9 , 
sub - clause ( cc) of the Imports (Control) Order 1955 
( as amended ), hereby cancel the aforesaid licences Issu 
ed in favour of M / s. Y . B . R . Industry , Kochangadi, 
Cochin- 2 


3 . उक्त कारण सतायो सूचना के प्रति मर्यश्री बाई मो०पार० 
उदयोग ने अपने चतानांक 31 -- 12 - 1971 तथा 14 - 3 . 1972 
कारण बताए थे और अधोहस्ताक्षरी से व्यक्तिगत रूप से मिलने के 
लिए भी कहा था । श्री पी० बी० राघवन जो कम का प्रतिनिधित्व 
कहनत अधोहस्ताक्षरी से व्यक्तिगत रूप से मिल थे । फर्म का 
कोई भी भागीदार अधोहस्ताक्षरी से व्यक्तिगत रूप से 
मिलने नहीं पाया । अपने उत्तर में उन्होंने यह तर्क 
दिया था कि कारखाना बद नहीं हुआ था और बैंक द्वारा वित्तीय 
सहायता मिलने के बाद यह पुनः ना हो जाएगा । उन्होंने अन्य कुछ 
कारखानों के कोल्ड स्टोरेज में संसाधित झोगों का स्टाक रखा 
हा था । यत्रितगत सुनवाई के समय फर्म के प्रतिनिधि ने यह 
स्वीकार किया था कि विसोय कठिनाइयों के कारण फिलहाल 
उनका कारखाना अन्द था । उन्होंने तर्क दिगा कि में या 
उमके प्रासपास झीगों का पकड़ाव बहुत कम था और अमरीका में 
कीमत बहत गिराव के कारण वित्तीय धक्का पहुंचा औरनिर्यातक 
बहुत बड़ी कठिनाई का सामना कर रहे थे । उन्हें आशा थी कि 
बैंकरों द्वारा वित्तीय सहायता मिलने पर वे अपने कारखाने को 
पुन : चालू करेगे और इसलिए जारी किए गए लाइसेंस के मद्द 
कच्चा माल आवश्यक तथा अपेक्षित था । 


4. अधोहस्ताक्षरी ने उक्त प्रतिवेदन की भली भांति जांच 
कर ली है और इस परिणाम पर पहुंचा है कि : 


[ No. CHN. 17 / 71 -72 / Enf. ] 

P . GOVINDA RAJU , 
Dy. Chief Controller of Imports & Exports . 
( उप मुख्य नियंत्रक , आयात निर्यात का कार्यालय ) 


प्रादेश 


एनाकुलम , कोचीन , 4 अप्रैल, 1972 


____ कारखाने में कार्य नहीं हो रहा है और अन्य कोल्ड 
स्टोरेज में संसाधित झीगों का स्टाफ जमा कर रखना ही 
कोई सबूत नहीं कि वे काम कर रहे हैं और दूसरी तरफ 
यह साफ सबूत मौजूद था कि उनका कारखाना बन्द हो 
गया था और प्रयोजक प्राधिकारियों को उनके भागीदारों 
का अता -पता मालूम नहीं था । मत्स्य उद्योग के निवेशकों 
ने यह साफ साफ प्रतिवदित किया था कि फर्म बन्द हो 
चुकी है । 


gro प्रो० 3247 .--- मर्यपी बाई० बी० प्रा० उद्योग , 
कोचन्डगी कोचीन- 2 को पंजीकत निर्यातक नीति के अंतर्गत 
वास्तविक उपयोक्ता भानों के अधीननिलिखित प्रायात लाइभेस 
जारी किए गए थे .. 

दिनांक 
1. पी / एल / 2594894 9 - 7 - 69293 रू० 
2. पी / एल / 2596129 14 - 10 - 69 10447 रू० 
3 पी / एल / 2595378 1 - 1 - 706599 
4 पी / एल / 2595697 10 - 3 - 703402 रू 
5. / एल / 2618800 22 - 6 - 70 11 : 67 
6. पी / एल / 2618962 20 - 8 - 70 11040 कर 
7 4 / एल / 2311193 7 - 11 - 70 11502 रू० 


उपर्युक्त कंडिका में जो बताया गया है उसे ध्यान में रखते 
हुए अधोहस्ताक्षरी संतुष्ट है कि विषयाधीन लाइसेंस रद्द किए 
जाने चाहिए या अन्यथा रूप से अप्रभावित किए जाने चाहिए । 
इसलिए , पायात (नियंत्रण ) प्रादेश , 1955 ( यथा संशोधित ) 
की धारा 9 उप-धारा ( सी सी ) के अन्तर्गत प्रदत्त अधिकारों का 
प्रयोग करते हुए अधोहस्ताक्षरी उपर्युक्त लाइसेंसों को जो सर्वश्री 
याई० बी० आर० इंडस्ट्री, कोचंगडी , कोचीन - 2 को जारी किए 
गये थे, एतद्वारा रद्द करता है । 


[ संख्या सी एच एन 17/ 71 - 72/ इंफो० ] 


2 तत्- श्चात एक कारण बतायो सूचनः स० सी एच एन 
17171/ 72/इफ . दिनाक 23- 12 - 21 यह पछने हर जारी 
की गई थी कि 15 दिनों के भीतर कार बताएं कि उनके नाम में 


पी . गोविन्दा राजू , 
उप मुमय नियंत्रक, पायात-निर्यात । 


Sec. 3 ( ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


- - 


- 


- 


. 


- . 


___ 4. अब आवेदक को पायात व्यापार नियंत्रण नियम तथा 
प्रक्रिया , हैंड बुक , 1970 के पैरा 313( 4 ) की शतों के अनुसार 
लाइसेंस की सोमाशुल्क निकासी प्रति को अनुलिपि जारी को जा 
रही है । 

[ संख्या एन पी / 17( एन ) एएम - 70/ एयू -एचएच/ सीएलए / 7] 


(Office of the Joint Chief Controller of 

Imports and Exports ) 
( Central Licensing Area ) 

ORDERS 
New Delhi , the 10th April, 1972 
S. O . 3248. - M /s. National Trading Co. Near Indust 
rial Area , Bahadurgarh (Haryana ) were granted import 
licence No. P / S / 1615496 , for Rs. 2, 500 dated 4th 
November 1969 for import of permissible Natural 
Essential Oils for AM-70 licensing period. They have 
applied for issue of duplicate copy of Custom Purposes 
copy, thereof on the ground that original copy has been 
lost / misplaced after having been registered with 
Bombay Customs authority . 

2 . The applicant have Aled an amdavit in support of 
their contention as required under para 313 ( 2 ) of I. T . C . 
Hand Book of Rules and procedure , 1970 . I am satis 
fled that the original custom purposes copy of the licence , 
In question , have been lost / misplaced , 

3 . In exercise of the powers conferred on me urdner 
Section 9 ( cc ) Import (Control) Order , 1955 dated 7th 
December, 1955 , I order the cancellation of custom pur 
poses copy of licence No . P / S / 1815496 , dated 4th 
November , 1969 . 


New Delhi , the 30th May, 1872 
S . O . 3249. — M / s. Asavari Industries FB / 36, Indust 
rial -cum- Housing Estate. Mathura Road , Faridabad were 
granted an import licence No. P / S / 1694180 / c / XX / 38 / 
D / 29 -30, dated 6th April, 1971 for Rs. 8 ,553 for import of 
( 1 ) Lithium Flouride ( 2 ) Potassium Flouride, ( 3 ) 
Stanpous Chloride, ( 4 ) Lithium Chloride. ( 6 ) Zink 
Flouride, ( 6 ) Potassium Ferrocyanide, ( 7 ) Titanium 
Rutile & ( 8 ) Nickel on G . C . A . They have applied for 
issue of duplicate Customs Purposes Copy of the said 
licence on the ground that the original Custom Pur 
poses Copy thereof has been lost /misplaced without 
having been utilised at all. 

2 . The applicant have filed an aflldavit in support of 
above statement as required under para 318 of I. T . C . 
Hand Book of Rules and Procedure , 1972 - 73. I am 
satisfied that the original Custom Purposes Copy of the 
said licence has been lost /misplaced , 

3 . In exercise of the powers conferred on me under 
Section 9 ( cc ) Import ( Control ) Order , 1955 dated 7th 
December. 1955 , I order the cancellation of the original 
Customs Purposes Copy of the licence No. P / S / 1694180 / 
c / XX / 38 / D / 29 -30, dated oth April, 1971 . 

4 . The applicant is now being issued a duplicate Cus 
toms Purposcs Copy of this licence in accordance with 
the provisions of para 318 ( 4 ) of I. T . C . Hand Book of 
Rules and Procedure , 1972 - 73 . 

[ No P- 91 / AM- 70 / AU- HH / CLA/ 462.] 
नई दिल्ली , 30 मई, 1972 


4 . The applicant is now being issued duplicate copy 
for Custom purposes copy of the licence in accordance 
with the provision of para 313 ( 4 ) of I. T . C . Hand 
Book of Rules and procedure, 1970 . 


[ No . File NP / 17 ( N ) AM- 70 AU - HH/ CLA/ 7.] 
( संयुक्त मुख्य नियंत्रक , आयात-निर्यात का कार्यालय ) 

( केन्द्रीय लाइसेंस क्षेत्र ) 


आदेश 


नई दिल्ली, 10 अप्रैल , 1972 


इन्डस्ट्रियल एरिया , बहादुरगढ़ ( हरियाणा ) को अनुमेय प्राकृतिक 
सुगंधित तेलों के आयात के लिए 2,500 / - रु० मूल्य का एक 
पायात लाइसेंस संख्या : पी / एस / 1615496, दिनांक 4 - 11 - 69 
लाइसेंस अवधि अप्रैल - मार्च, 70 के लिए प्रदान किया गया था । 
उन्होंने उस लाइसेंस की सीमाशुल्क निकासी प्रति की अनुलिपि 
जारी करने के लिए इस आधार पर आवेदन किया है कि मूल सीमा 
शुल्फ निकासी प्रति सीमाशुल्क प्राधिकारी, बम्बई से पंजीकृत कराने 
के बाद खो गई है / अस्थानस्थ हो गई है । 


2. अपने तर्क के समर्थन में आवेदक ने पायात व्यापारनियंत्रण 
नियम तथा प्रक्रिया , हैंड बुक , 1970 के पैरा 313( 2 ) में यथा 
अपेक्षित एक शपथपत्र दाखिल किया है । मैं संतुष्ट हूं कि विषया 
धीन लाइसेंस की मूल सीमाशुल्क निकासी प्रति खो गई है / अस्थानस्थ 
हो गई है । 


एस० प्रो० 3249. - - मर्वश्री असवारी इन्डस्ट्रीज, एफ बी / 36 , 
इन्डस्ट्रियल -कम-हाउसिंग इस्टेट, मथुरा रोड, फरीदाबाद को 
सामान्य मुद्रा क्षेत्र से ( 1 ) लिथियम फ्लोराइड, ( 2 ) पोटेसियम 
फ्लोराइड, ( 3 ) स्टेन्पोज क्लोराइड, ( 4 ) लिथियम क्लोराइड , 
( 5 ) जिंक फ्लोराइड, ( 6 ) पोटेसियम फरोसायनाइड , ( 7 ) 
टिटेनियम रूटाइल तथा ( 8 ) निकल के आयात के लिए 8, 553 /-- 
रुपये का एक पायात लाइसेंस संख्या : पी / एस /1694180/ सी / 
एक्सएक्स / 38/ डी / 29 - 30, दिनांक 6 - 4 - 71 प्रदान किया 
गया था । उन्होंने उक्त लाइसेंस की अनुलिपि सीमाशुल्क प्रयोजन 
प्रति के लिए इस आधार पर आवेदन किया है कि उसकी मूल 
सीमाशुल्क प्रयोजन प्रति का बिना कुछ भी उपयोग किए ही खो 
गई है / प्रस्थानस्थ हो गई है । 
___ 2. उपर्युक्त बयान के समर्थन में प्रावेदक ने प्राईटी०सी० 
हैंड बुक , क्रियाविधि , 1972- 1973 की कंडिका 318 के अन्तर्गत 
यथा अपेक्षित एक शपथर-पत्र दाखिल किया है । मैं संतुष्ट हूं कि 
उक्त लाइसेंस की मल सीमाशुल्क प्रयोजन प्रति खो गई है / प्रस्थानस्थ 
हो गई है । 

3. पायात (नियंत्रण ) आदेश, 1955, दिनांक 7- 12 - 1955 
की धारा 9 ( सी सी ) के अन्तर्गत मेरे लिए प्रवत्त अधिकारों का 
प्रयोग कर मैं लाइसेंस संख्या : पी /एस/ 1694180/ सी / एक्सएक्स / 


3. पायात (नियंत्रण ) आदेश , 1955 दिनांक 7 दिसम्बर, 
1955 की धारा 9 ( मी सी ) के अन्तर्गत प्रदत्त अधिकारों का 
प्रयोग करते हुए मैं लाइसेंस संख्या : पी / एस / 16 1 5 49 6, दिनांक 
4 - 11 - 69 की सीमाशुल्क निकासी प्रति को रद्द करने का आदेश 
देता हूं । 


4562 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29, 1894 

[ PART II 

न 
38/ डो / 29 - 30, दिनांक 6 - 4 - 1971 की मूल मोमाशुल्क 

4. अब आवेदक को पायात व्यापार नियन्त्रण नियम तथा 
प्रयोजन प्रति को रद्द करने का आदेश देता हूं । 

प्रक्रिया हैंडबक , 1972 - 73 के पैरा 318 ( 4 ) को शतों के अनुसार 
4. आवेदक को प्राई० टी० सी० , हैंडबुक , क्रियाविधि , लाइसेंस की मुद्रा विनिमय नियन्त्रण प्रति की अनुलिपि जारी की 
1972 - 73 की कंडिका 318 ( 4 ) की व्यवस्थाओं के अनुसार जा रही है । 
इस लाइसेंस की अनुलिपि सीमाशुरक प्रयोजन प्रति अब जारी की 

[संख्या पी/ए/18( एन )/ए एम - 72/ए यू-एच एच / सी एल ए/ 104 ] 
जा रही है । 

डी० एस० मोरक्रीमा , 
[ संख्या पी - 91/ एएम - 70/ एयू - एचएच/ सीएलए/ 462 ] 

उप- मुख्य नियन्त्रक , पायात -निर्यात , 
New Delhi, the 13th June, 1972 . 

कृते सयुक्त मुख्य नियन्त्रक, आयात-निर्यात 
S . O . 3250. - M / s. A . Paul Instruments Co., Ward No. 
3. Jind ( Haryana ) were granted an import licence No. 
P / S / 1729064 / C / XX / 41 / D / 33-34, dated 18th December , 
1971 for Rs. 5 , 000 for import of soft capillary tubing 
and ceruinir colours from G . C . A . They have applicd 

( Office of the Chief Controller of 
for issue of duplicate exchange control purposes copy 

Imports and Exports ) 
vily of the said licence on the ground that the original 

ORDER 
exchange control purposes copy thereof has beci lost / 
misplaced without having beci utilised at all. 

New Delhi, the 31st May, 1972 
2 . The applicant have filed an affidavit in support of 

S . O . 3251. - M / s. Hindustan Tin Works ( P ) Ltd ., 
the above statement, as required under para 318 of 

Ghaziabad were granted an import licencc No. P / C / 
Import Trade Control Hand Book of Rules and Proce 

2050618/ H / KQ / 31 / H / 25- 26 / Sp. Cell , dated 26th June, 
dure 1972 - 73 . I am satisfied that the original exchange 

1969 for Rs . 1 ,03, 000 ( Ruppes One Lakh & Three Thous 
control purposes copy of the said licence has been lost / 

and only ) under 5th Kipping Loan . Since the 5th Kip 
misplaced. 

ping Loan has expired they could not make use of this 
3. In exercise of the powers conferred on me under licence . They have surrendered the licence for cancel 
Section 9 ( cc) of Import Control Order , 1955 dated 7th lation and in lieu thereof a new licence has been issued 
December, 1955 , I order the cancellation of the original to them under 7th Kipping Loan . 
exchange control purposes copy of licence No. P / S / 
1729064 / C / XX/ 41 / D / 33-34. dated 18th December , 1971 . 

I am accordingly satisfied that the original Customs 

Purposes and Exchange Control Purposes copy of the 
4 . The applicant is now being Issued duplicate exchan 

said licence has been surrendered . Therefore , in exer 
ge control Purposes copy of the licence in accordance 

cise of the powers conferred under Sub -Clause 9 ( cc ) of 
with the provision of para 318 ( 4 ) of the I. T . C . Hand 

the Imports ( Control ) Order. 1055 dated 7th December , 
Book of Rules & Procedure 1972- 73 . 

1955 as amended the said original Customs Purposes / 
[ No. File P/ A-18( N) / AM-72 / AU- HH / CLA / 1047.] Exchange Control Purposes copy of licence No. P / C / 
D . S . MORKRIMA, 

2050618 , dated 26th June, 1969 Issued to M / s. Hindustan 
Dy . Chief Controller of Imports & Exports . 

Tin Works (P ) Ltd , Ghaziabad is hereby cancelled . 
for Jt. Chief Controllçr of Imports & Exports . 

[ No. F . SPCL/ 327 / KL5 / 67.68. ] 
नई दिल्ली , 13 जून, 1972 

S . R . MINOCHA , 
एस० पी० 3250 . -- - सर्वश्री ए० पाल इस्मेंद्रटम कं०, वार्ड 

Joint Chief Controller of Imports & Exports. 
नं० 3, जींद ( हरियाणा ) को सामान्य मद्रा क्षेत्र से 

( मख्य नियन्त्रक , पायात-निर्यात का कार्यालय ) 
साफट केपिलरी ट्यबिंग और सिरेमिक रंगों के आयात 

प्रादेश 
के लिए 5, 000 रुपये मूल्य का एक आयात लाइसेंस 
संख्या : पीएम /172906 4/ सी / एक्स एक्स / 41/ डी / 33 - 34 

नई दिल्ली , 31 मई, 1972 
दिनांक 18- 12- 71 प्रदान किया गया था । उन्होंने उक्त लाइसेंस 

एस०पी० 3251. -सर्वथी हिन्दुस्तान टीन वस ( प्रा . ) लि . 
की मुद्रा विनिमय नियन्त्रण प्रति को अनुलिपि जारी करने के लिए 

गाजियाबाद को 5वीं कीपिंग लोन के अन्तर्गत 1,03, 000 रु० ( एक 
इस आधार पर आवेदन किया है कि मूल मद्रा विनिमय नियन्त्रण 

लाख तीन हजार रुपये मात्र ) के लिए एक आयात लाइसेंस सं० 
प्रति बिल्कुल उपयोग किए बिना खो गई है | अस्थानस्थ हो गई है । 

पी / सी / 2050618/ एच/ के क्यू / 31 / एच / 25 . 26/स्पेशल सेल , 
2. उपर्युक्त कयन के समर्थन में आवेदक ने पायात व्यापार दिनांक 26 - 6 -- 69 प्रदान किया गया था । चूंकि 5वां कीपिंग 
नियन्त्रण नियम तथा क्रियाविधि , हैडबुक , 1972 - 73 के पैरा 

लोन खत्म हो गया है, उहोंने इम लाइसेंस का उपयोग नहीं किया 
318 में यथा अपेक्षित एक शपथ पत्र दाखिल किया है । में सन्तुष्ट है । उन्होंने लाइसेम को रद्द करने के लिए जमा कर दिया है और 
हूं कि उक्त लाइसेंस की मूल मुद्रा विनिमय नियन्त्रण प्रति खो गई उसके बदले में 7वां कीपिंग लोन के अन्तर्गत एक नया लाइसेंस जारी 
है / प्रस्थानस्थ हो गई है । 

किया गया है । 
3. पायात नियन्त्रण आदेश , 1955 दिनांक 17- 12-1955 

तदनुसार, मैं मन्तुष्ट हूं कि उक्त लाइसेंस की मूल सीमा शुल्क 
के खण्ड 9 ( सी सी ) के अन्तगुंत प्रदत्त अधिकारों का प्रयोग करते प्रयोजन प्रति तथा मद्रा विनिमय नियन्त्रण प्रयोजन प्रति जमा कर 
हुए मैं लाइसेंस संख्या पी / एस / 1729064/ सी /एक्स एक्स / 41/ दी गई है । इसलिए , यथा मंगोधिन, आयात (नियन्त्रण ) प्रादेश , 
डी / 33 - 34,दिनांक 18 - 12-- 71 को मुल मद्रा विनिमय नियन्त्रण 1955, दिनांक 7 - 12- 55 को अधारा 9 ( सी सी ) के अन्तर्गत 
प्रति को रद्द करने का आदेश देता हूं । 

प्रदत्त अधिकारों का प्रयोग कर सर्वश्री हिन्दुस्तान टीन वर्स ( प्रा . ) 


- - 


- - - - - - 


SEC . 3 ( iii THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA ? ), 1894 

4563 

- - - - - - - -- - - - - - ---- -- --- -- 
लि० , गा याबाद के नाम में जारी किए गए लाइस म०पो/ मी । की मून मीमा शुल्क निकामी प्रति खो गई है । अतः यथा संशोधिन 
2050618, दिनांक 26 - 6-- 69 को मल सोमा शल्क प्रयोजन / पायात (नियन्त्रण ) आदेश , 1955 दिनांक 7 - 12 - 1955 की 
मद्रा विनिमय नियन्त्रग प्रति को एतदद्वारा रद्द किया जाता है । 

उपधाग 9 ( सी सी ) के अन्तर्गत प्रदत्त अधिकारों का प्रयोग करते 

हुए मर्यश्री नेशनल इंस्टीट्पट आफ स्पोर्ट म , पटियाला को जारी 
[ सख्या स्पेशल मेल / 327 के एन-5/ 67. 68] 

किए गए लाइसेंस सं० जी / ए प ] 10 40079दिनांक 5 - 11 - 1969 
श्रीराम मिनोचा , 

को उक्त मन सोमा शुल्क निकामी प्रति एनद्वारा रद्द जाती है । 
सम्ममुख्य नियन्त्रक, पायात-निर्यात । 

3. लाइमें गधारी को उका लाइसेंस की सीमा शल्क प्रति की 

अनुलिपि अलग से जारी की जा रही है । 
( Office of the Chief Controllor of 
Imports and Exports ) 

[ संख्या एन - 39। इस्टीट् पृट / 69 - 70/ पाई एल एम ] 
ORDER 

एम० जी० गोम्बर, 
New Delhi, the 20th June. 1972. 

उस मुखप नियन्त्र . आयात-निर्यात । 
S . O . 3252. - M / s. The National Institute of Sports , 
Patiala were granted an impor: licence No. G / AU/ 
1040079, dated 5th Novemberr , 1969 for Rs . 12 . 016 

(Office of the Dy Clier Controller of 
( Rupees Twelve Thousand and Sisteen on ) y ). They 
have applied for the issue of a dupplicate Customs 

Imports and Exports ) 
purpose copy of the said licence on the ground that the 

ORDER 
original Customs purpose copy has been lost / inispla 
ced . It is further stated that the original Customs 

New Delhi , the 1st August. 1972 
Purpose copy was registered with the Customs authori 
ties at Calcutta and utilised partly . It was utiliser for 

5 . 0 . 3253 . . - Mr. Kudige Bharamaiahgowda Tulsidas was 
Rs. 3. 247 and the balance available on it was Rs. 8 . 769 . 

granted Custom Clearance Permit No. P / J / 3039683 / N / 

IMP / 13 / H / 35 - 36 ., dated 6th Apri], 1972 for Rs. 15 , 000 
2 . In support of this contention , the applirant has 

tor import of a Chevrolet 1969 Morlel Car has applied 
Aled an affidavit on a stamped paper. I am accordingly 

for a duplicate copy of the Custom Clearance Permit as 
satisfied that the original Customs Purposes copy of the 

the original Customs Clearance Permit has been lost . 
said licence has been lost. Therefore , in exercise of 

It is further stated that the original Custom Cicarance 
the power conferred under Sub - clause 9 ( CC ) of the Im 

Permit was not registered with any Custom House and 
poris ( Control ) Order 1955 dated 7th December , 1955 as 

not utilised . 
amended , the said original Customs purposes copy of 
licence No. G / AU / 1040079 , dated 5th November, 1969) 

In support of this contention Shri K . B . Tulsidas has 
issued to M / s . The National Institute of Sports , Patiala 

filca An affidavit. He has undertaken to return the 
is hereby cancelled . 

Custom Clcarance Permit if traced later to this office 

for record. I am satisfied that, the original Custorn 
3 . A duplicate Customs purposes copy of the sald 

Clearance Permit No. P / 3 / 3039683 / N / M / 13 / H / 35 - 36 , 
licenre is being issued separately to the licensee, 

dated 6th April , 1972 , has been lost and direct that a 
[ No. N - 39 /Inst / 69- 70 / ILS / . ] cuplicate Custom Cicarance Permit should be issued to 
M . G . GOMBAR , 

him . The original Custorn Clearance Permit may be 

trcater as canceller . 
Deputy Chick Controller of Imports & Exports . 

INo. File 2 ( B - 381 ) / 71- 72 / BLS/ 2151. ] 
(नशिपन्या , प्राथान निर्मान का कानप ) 

( Sd .) Illegible , 

Dy. Chief Controller of Imports & Exports. 
प्रादेश 

• ( मुख्यनियन्त्रक, प्रायान-निर्यान का कार्यान्ग ) 
नई दिल्ली , 20 जन , 1972 
एस ) प्रो० 3252 . - - सर्वश्री दि नेशनल इंस्टीट्यूट आफ 

नई दिल्ली , 1 अगस्त , 192 
सोर्टम . पटियाला को 12016 रुपये ( बारह हजार सोलह 
रुपये पात्र) के लिए एक लाइ । सं जी ए य । 1040079 एम० श्री . 3253 - श्री कुरिजम पाहगोमाय को 
दिनांक 5-- 11-- 1969 प्रदान किया गया था । उन्हाने उक्त एक शिबरलेट 1969 माइल कार के पायात के लिए 15000 क 
साइन की सोपा शल्क निकामी प्रति की अनिपि जारी मूल्य का एक सीमा शुल्क निकामी परमिट सं० पा / जे 3039683 / 
करने के लिए इस प्राधार पर घाघेदन किया है कि मल एन/ एम पो ) 43 / एच / 35- 36 दिनांक 6- 1- 72 प्रदान किया गया 
सीमा शुल्क निकासो पनि खो गई । अस्मानरय हो गई है । था । उन्होंने सोमा शुल्क निकासी परमिट को अनलिपि के लिए 
यह भी उल्लेखकिया गया है कि मल मीमा शुल्क निकामा प्रति तोमा इम अाधार पर प्रावेदन किया है कि मन भीमा शुल्व निकामा 
शाल्क प्राधिकारी कलकत्ता से पजीकृत कराई गई थी और उसका परमिट सो गया है । यह भी उल्लेख किया गया है कि मल भामा 
अांशिक उपयोग किया गया था । इसका उपयोग 3247 २० शकनिकासो परमिट किमी मीमा शुल्क कार्यालय में पजीकृत नहो 
के निर करनिरा गया था और इस पर उसनन्ध प धनराशि कराया गया था और उसका उपयोग नहीं किया गया था । 
8769 रु० थी । 

इस तर्क के समर्थन में श्री के० बी० तुलनीदास ने एक शपथ 
इजल के समर्थन में आवेदक ने स्टाम्प कागज पर एक शपथ । पत्र दाखिल किया है । उन्होंने यह बचन दिया है कि यदि सोमा 
प्रत्न दाखिल किया है । तदनुसार में सन्तुष्ट हूं कि उस लाइनेंस शल्क निकासी पमिट बाद में मिल गा तो उसे रिकार्ड के लिए 


प्रादेश 


C 


. 


4564 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II 


इस कार्यालय में लोटा दिया जाएगा । में सन्तुष्ट हैं कि मल सामा 
शुल्क निकासी परमिट सं० पी / जे/ 3039683/ एन /एमपी / 43/ 
एच । 35 - 36दिनांक 6 - 4-- 72 खो गया है और निदेश देता हूं कि 
उसकी अनुलिपि उनको जारी की जानी चाहिए । मल सीमा शुल्क 
निकासी परमिट रद किया गया समझा जाए । 


प्राधिकारी से पंजीकृत कराए बिना और बिल्कूल उपयोग किय 
बिना खो गई है और यह कि अब उार्यक्त लाइसेंस की मोमाश रूक 
प्रति की अनुनिशि की आवश्यकता लाइसेंस के पूरे मूल्य 
14, 309 रु० के लिए है । 

उपर्युक्त तर्क के समर्थन में आवेदक ने एक शपथ पत्र दाखिल 
किया है । मैं संतुष्ट हूं कि उक्त लाइसेंस को मूल सीमाशुल्क 
निकासी प्रति खो गई है और निदेश देता हूं कि आवेदक को इसकी 
अनुनिषि जारी की जानी चाहिए । उपर्युक्त लाइसेंप की मून 
मीमाशुल्क निकासी प्रति एतद्वारा रद्द की जाती है । 
[ संख्या आई टी सो / एम एस प्राई / T. 251/ T. एम. 72 /पी ] 

के० जयरामन, 
उप मुख्य नियंत्रक, पायात-निर्यात । 


( ह . ) अस्पष्ट , 
उप मुख्य नियन्त्रक , पायात -निर्यान । 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


( Offlce of the Deputy Chief Controller of Imports 

and Exports ) 

ORDER 

Bangalore , the 10th July 1972 
SUBJECT : Cancellation of Customs Purposes Copy of 

Licence No . P / S / 1676838 / R / ML / 41 / X / 33- 34. 

dt. 17 -12- 71 for Rs. 14, 309. 
S . O . 3254 . — M / s . Mahatma Gandhi Perfurnery 
Works, No . C . 127, Nagarathpet, Bangalore- 2 , were 
granted import licence No. P / S / 167638 / R /ML / 41 / X / 
33- 34 : dt . 17 -12- 71 for Rs. 14, 309 for import of Aromatic 
Chemicals , Natural Essential Oils and Resinoids. They 
have now applied for duplicate copy of Customs Pur 
poses Couy of the above licence on the ground that 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND REHABILITATION 

( Department of Labour & Employment ) 

New Delhi, the 1st August 1972 
S . O . 3235 , - - Whereas it apears to the Central Gov 
crnnient that the employer and the majority of the 
cmployecs in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Electric Construction and Equipment Com 
pany Ltd Soncpat have agreed that the provi 
sions of the Employees Provident Funds und Family 
Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made 
applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , Therefore, in exercise of the powers crin 
Terred by sub - section (4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , 
the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment, 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of March, 1970 . 

[ No. 8 / 222 / 70 - PF.II .] 
श्रम और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय 


( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 


of the licence has been lost without having been regis 
tered with any Customs Authorities and not utilised 
at all and that the duplicate copy of Customs Purposes 
Copy of the above licence now required is for the 
full value of licence Rs. 14 , 309 . 

In support of the above contention the applicant 
has Aled an affidavit. I am satisfied that the original 
Customs Purposes Copy of the above licence has been 
lost and direct that a duplicate copy of the Customs 
Purposes Copy of the above licence should be issued 
to the aplicant. The Original Customs Purposes 
Copy of the above licence is hereby cancelled , 

[ No . ITC / SSI/ A.251 / A. M. 72 / P. ] 

K . JAYARAMAN, 
Dy. Chief Controller of Imports & Exports. 
( उग-मुख्य नियंत्रक, पायात -निर्यात का कार्यालय ) 

प्रादेश 

बंगपोर, 10 जुलाई, 1972 
विषय :- 14309 रु० मूल्य के लाइसेंस सं० पी / एस/ 1676838 / 

आर एम एल / 41 /एम / 33 - 34 दिनांक 17 - 12 - 71 

की सीमाशुल्क निकामी प्रति को रद्द करना । 
एस . प्रो० 3254.-- - पर्वश्री महात्मा गांधी परफ्युमरी 
वर्म , सं० मी . 127, नगाग्थोट , बंगलौर - 2 को सुगंधित 
रासायनितों , प्राकृतिक सुगंध तेलों और रेजिनाइड्स के प्रायान के 
लिए 14, 309 मल्य के लिए एक पायात लाइसेंम मं० पी / 
एस / 16768 38 / आर / एम एल / 41 / एक्स / 33- 34 दिनांक 
17 - 12 - 71 प्रदान किया गया था । अब उन्होंने उपर्युक्त लाइसेंस 
की सीमाशुल्क निकासी प्रति की अलिपि के लिए इस आधार पर 
आवेदन किया है कि मल सीमाशुल्क निकासी प्रति किमी भी सीमाशुल्क 


नई दिल्ली , 1 अगस्त , 72 
का० प्रा० 3255. - --पनः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रनीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स इलेक्ट्रिक कल्पद्रकशन एंट इपिधपमेंट कम्पनी , 
लिमिटेड, सोनीपत नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और. 
कर्मचारियों की बहसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्म -- 
चारी भविष्य निधि और कुटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 
( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किये 
जाने चाहिये । 
___ अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधाग 
( A ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सर: 
कार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतत् दाग 
लाग करती है । 

यह अधिसूचना 1970 के मार्च के प्रथम दिन को प्रवन 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[सं० 8/222/ 70- पी० एफ० 2] 


- 


re said Goven (4) Fe 


SEC . 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 20, 1894 

__ _ _ 4565 
S . O . 3256 . - Whereas it appcars to the Central Gov 

उक्त अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू 
ernment that the employer and the majority of . . 
employees in relation to the establishment known is करती है । 
Messrs Babson and Company Hirji Govindji Esta e 
Thakarsey Jivaji Road, Sweri, Bombay - 15 have agrect 
that the provisions of the Employers Provident Fundi 

यह अधिसूचना 1971 को जुलाई के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
and Family Pension l undAct , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) हुई गमगी जाएगी । 
should be made applicable to the said establishment; 
Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 

[ मं० एम - 35019 ( 75) / 72 - पी एक 2( i)] 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government herchy applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment; 

S . O . 3258. - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 

ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
This notification shall be deemed to have come into employees in relation to the establishment known as 
force on the thirty - first day of December, 1970. 

Messrs Assam Tea Brokers ( Private ) Limited , G . N . 

Bardoloi Road , Gauhati - 3 , have agrced that the provi 
[ No. S 35018 ( 46 ) / 72- PF.II. ] sions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family 

Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , should be made 
का० प्रा० 3256 - - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 

applicable to the said cstablishment: 
होता है कि मर्म बावसन एंड कम्पनो होरजो गोविन्द जी एस्टेट Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
ठेकर से जीवराज रोड स्वरो नुम्बई - 15 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध 

by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 

Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
नियोजकों और कर्मचारियों को बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत 

the said Act to the said establishment. 
हो गई है कि कर्म नारो भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 

force on the thirtieth day of June, 1972. 
अधिनियम 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबंध उक्त स्थामन 

[ No. S. 35019( 68 )/ 72- PF.II(i) .] 
को लागू किये जाने चाहिये ; । 

का० प्रा० 3258 - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होत 
अनः अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 

है कि मैमर्म आमाम टो ब्रोकर्स ( प्राइवेट लिमिटेड , जी० एन० 
द्वारा प्रदत शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हा केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 

बोरदोलाई रोड , गोहाटी - 3 नामक स्थापन से सम्बन्ध नियोजक 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एनद्वारा लागू करती है । 

और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि 
___ यह अधिसूचना 1970 को दिमम्बर के इत्तिोम दिन को कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 
प्रवृत्त हुई समक्षी जाएगी । 

( 195 2 का 19 ) के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने 
[ सं० एम० 350 18 ( 46 ) / 72 पी एफ - 2 ] 

चाहिए । 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
S . O . 3257 , - -Whereas it appears to the Certral Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Suman Export Corporation, 61 - Sunder Nagar , 

अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 
New Delhi including its Branch at World Trade Cen 
tre, 9th Floor , 13 / B - 1 , Ezra Street , Calculta have ___ यह अधिसूचना 1972 की जून के 30वें दिन को प्रवृत्त 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees Trovident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of हुई समझो जाएगी । 
1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said establish 
ment; 

[ सं० एस- 350 19 ( 68 )/ 72- पी एफ 2 ] 
Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 

S .O . 3259, - In exercise of the power s conferred by 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 

the first proviso to section 6 of the Employees Provi 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 
This notification shall be deemed to have come 

1952 ) , the Central Government , after making neces 

sary enquiry into the matter , hereby specifies with 
into force on the first day of July , 1971. 

cffect from the 30th Junc , 1972, the establishment 
[ No. S. 35019(75) / 72 - PF. II (i). ] 

known as Messrs Assam Tea Brokers ( Private ) Limi 
ted, G . N . Bardoloi Road, Gauhati - 3 , for the purposes 

of the said proviso . 
का : प्रा० 3257 - यन केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 

[ No . S. 35019 ( 68 ) / 72- PF.II (ii).] 
है कि भैसर्स सुमन एस्मपोर्ट कारेगन 61 - सुन्दर नगर, नई 
दिल्ली तथा इमको शात्रा बई ट्रेड सेन्टर नीत्री मंजिल 13/ बी 

का० प्रा० 3259. -- - केन्द्रीय सरकार कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 
इजरा स्ट्रीट कलकत्ता नामक स्थान से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 
कर्मचारियों को बहुमन्या इस बात पर महमत हो गई है कि की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत प्राक्तियों का प्रयोग 
कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुदम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम 

करने हा संद्ध विषय में श्रावश्यक जांच करा के पश्चात् 
1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लाग 30 जून 1972, से पैसर्स आसाम टी प्रोकर्ग ( प्राइवट ) लिमिटेड, 
किये जाने चाहिये , 

जी० एन० बोरदोलाई रोड , गोहाटी - 3 नामक स्थापन को 

एतदद्वारा अत परन्तुक के प्रयोजन के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 
अतः अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा 
( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार 

[ २० एम - 35019 ( 63)/ 72 -पी०एफ० 2(ii ) ] 


4566 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972/ ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 के दिसम्बर, के प्रथम दिन को प्रवत्त 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[सं० एस - 35019( 76) / 72- पी एफ० 2 ( i ) ] 


S. O . 3260. - - Whereas it appears to the Centarl Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Bhandara Zilla Sahakari Kharcdi Vikri Sangh 
Limited , Bhandara , including its branches at Sakoli 
and Gondia , have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 
_ Now, therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirtieth day of Junc, 1970 . 

No. S. 35018( 41 ) /72- PF.II. ] 
का० प्रा० 3260. - यत: केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैसर्स भंडाग जिला महकारी खरेदी विक्री संघ लिमिटेड 
भंडारा , नामक स्थापन , जिममें सफोली और ग रिया में उसकी 
शाखाएं सम्मिलित है से सम्बन्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की 
बहसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 

और कटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 195 2 81 19 ) के 
उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 


S . 0 . 3262. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
Arst proviso to section of the Employees Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ), 
the Central Government, after making necessary en 
quiry into the matter , hereby specifies with effect from 
the 1st December , 1971, the establishment known as 
MessIs Narang Group, 101 / 102 Akash Deep Bullding , 
Barakhamba Road New Delhi, for the purposes of the 
said proviso . 

[ No. S. 35019(76)/ 72- PF .II( ii ).] 
का० प्रा० 3262 --- केन्द्रीय सरकार , कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 
और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 195 2 का 19 ) 
को धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हुए , संबद्ध विषय में आवश्यक जांच के पश्चात् 1 दिसम्बर, 1971 
में मेसर्स नांरग ग्रुप , 101/ 10 2 अाकाश दीप बिल्डिंग , बारा अंबा 
रोड, नई दिल्ली, नामक स्थापन को एलद्वारा उक्त परन्तुक के 
प्रयोजनों के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 

[ सं० एम- 35019 ( 76) / 72-पी० एफ० 2 (ii) ] 
S . O . 3263 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Goveril 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Packaging Products , 95 / 1 , Cossipore Road , Cal 
cuta- 2 including its office at No . 6 . Chowringhee Road , 
Calcutta - 13 have agreed that the provisions of the Em 
ployees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund "Act, 
1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said 
establishment ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub- section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty first day of December , 1969 . 

[ No. S - 35017/ 37 / 72 / PF -II (i).] 


अत :, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 को उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय मरकार उक्त 
धिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती है । 


यह अधिसूचना 1970 की जून के तीमवें दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई 
समझी जाएगी । 

[ सं० एम० 3 5018 ( 41 )/ 72- पी एफ 2 ] 


S . O . 3261. — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern 
nent that the employer and the majority of the em 
loyees in relation to the establishment known as 
Tessrs Narang Group, 101 / 102, Akash Deep Building , 
arakhamba Road, New Delhi, have agreed that the 
i ovisions of the Employees Provident Funds and 
amily Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be 
lade applicable to the said establishment; 
Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
y sub - section ( 4 ) of scction 1 of the said Act, the 
entral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
1d Act to the said establishmeni. 
This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
rce on the first day of December , 1971 , 


का० प्रा० 3263 . - --प्रतः केन्द्रीय मरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैतर्म पैकेजिग प्राइमदन , 95/ 1, कोसोपुर रोड , 
कलकना- 2, जिसमें सं06 चौरंगो रोड, कलकत - 13, का कार्यालय 
मम्मिलित है नामक स्थापन से संबंद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों 
को बहसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटुम्न मेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 
19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदल शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उपत स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लागू करती है । 


[ No . S. 35019 ( 76 ) / 72-PF.II(i).] 


का० प्रा० 3261 - यत: केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
: कि मैमर्म नारंग ग्रप , 101/ 102, अाकाश दीप बिल्डिग , बाग 
बा रोड, नई दिल्ली नामक स्थापन से सम्बन्ध नियोजक और कर्म 
रियों की बहसंख्या इस बात पर महमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारो 
विष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 
19 ) के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 


यह अधि पूचना 1969 के दिसम्बर , के इकोसवें दिन को 
प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ संख्या एम - 35017( 37)/ 72 पी०एफ -2(i )] 
S. O . 3264. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
first proviso to section 6 of the Employees Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952), 
the Central Government, after making necessary en 
quiry into the matter , hereby specifles with effect from 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा । की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
रा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
धिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लाग करती है । 


$ 5c. 3 ( i ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4567 


the 31st December, 1969 , the establishment known as 
Messrs Packaging Products , 95 / 1 Cossipore Road Cal 
cutta - 2 including its office at 6 , Chowringhee Road , Cal 
cutta - 13, for the purposes of the said proviso . 

[ No. S - 35017/ 37 / 72 / PF -II (ii). ] 
का० प्रा० 326 4. - -- केन्द्रीय सरकार कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 
और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 
की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हुए , संबद्ध विषय में आवश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात् 31 दिसम्बर , 
1969 से पैकेजिंग प्राडक्ट्स , 95/ 1, कासीपुर रोड, कलकत्ता - 2 
जिसमें से 6 चौरंगो रोड, कलकत्ता -13 स्थित उसका कार्यालय 
सम्मिलित है, नामक स्थापन को एतद्वारा उक्त परन्तुक के 
प्रयोजनों के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 


का० प्रा० 3266.-- - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है 
कि मैसर्म रतन इंजोनिर्यारंग वर्म , 17, गोपाल लाल टैगोर रोड , 
कलकत्ता - 36 नामक स्थापन से संबद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों 
को बहुसंख्या इस बात सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि मोर कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19) 
के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागु किए जाने चाहिए । 


अत ; अब , उक्त अधिनियम को धारा 1 को उपधारा 
( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार 
उक्त अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लाग 
करतो है । 


[ संख्या एस- 350 17 ( 37 )/ 72-मो० एफ - 2 (ii) ] 


यह अधिचिता 1970 को दिसम्बर , के इकतीसवें दिन को 
प्रवृत हुई समझी जागो । 

[ सं० एस - 35017 ( 38 ) / 72-पी०एफ० 2) ] 


S . O . 3265 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Govern 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
the Messrs Bombay Finance Company , Dhan Nur, 16 
Sir P . Mehta Road. Bombay - 1 have agreed that the pro 
visions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made 
applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty -first day of October, 1971. 

INo. S- 35018 ( 32) / 72- PF.II. ] 
का० प्रा० 326 5. -- यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है 
कि मैसर्स बाम्बे फाइनान्स कम्पनी, धान नूर , 6 सर पी०मेहता 
रोड, मुम्बई- 1, नामक स्थापन से संबद्व नियोजक और कर्मचारियों 
की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनिधिम , 1952 ( 1952 का 
19) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 


S . O . 3267. - Whereas it appears to the Central Govern 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
the Messrs Devendra Exports (Private ) Limited , G .I., 
Industrial Estate , Ambattur, Madras-58 have agreed that 
the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act . 1952 ( 19 of 1952), should be 
made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of August. 1971. 

__ [ No. S. 35019(114)/ 71-PF.II(i).] 


का० प्रा० 3267 . -- यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह 
प्रतीत होता है कि मैमर्स देवेन्द्र एक्सपोर्टस ( प्राइवेट ) लिमिटेड , 
नी - 1 इण्डट्रियल एस्टेट , अम्बातुर, मद्रास - 58 नामक स्थापन 
से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात 
पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कूटम्ब 
पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध 
उक्त स्थापन को लाग किए जाने चाहिए । 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन कों एतत्द्वारा लागू करती है । 


अतः, अब , अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 के अगस्त , के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हई समझी जायगी । 


[ संख्या एस - 35019 ( 114 )/ 71 -पी०एफ - 2 ( i ) ] 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 के अक्तुबर , के इकतीसवें दिन 
को प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ संख्या एस - 35018 ( 32) / 72-पी० एफ० 2] 
S . 0 . 3266. --- Whereas it appears to the Central Govern 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Ratan Engineering Works, 17 , Gopal Lal Tagore 
Road , Calcutta - 36 have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ), should be made applicable to the 
said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub- section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
Said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirtyfirst day of December . 1970. 

INo. S- 35017 / 38/ 72 / PF-II.] 


S . O . 3268. - Iri exercise of the powers conferred by 
first proviso to section 6 of the Employees Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ), 
the Central Government, after making necessary en 
quiry into the matter , hereby specifies with effect from 
the 1st August , 1971 . the establishment known as 
Messrs Devendra Exports (Private ) Limited , G . I., In 
dustrial Estate , Ambattur, Madras- 58 , for the purposes 
of the said proviso . 

INo. S - 35019 / 114 / 71 / PF-II ( ii ).] 


4568 


- - - - - 


- 


-- - . 


. . 


NYE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 

PART II 

- - - - __ _ _ - -- - - -- - 
का० प्रा० 3268. --- केन्द्रीय सरकार , कर्मचारी भविष्य 

का ० श्रा० 327 ( . - - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह 
निधि और कुटम्ब पंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 प्रतीत होता है कि मैसर्म फोटो स्टोर्स , 101 -एम - कनाट सर्कस , 
का 19 ) की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का नई दिल्ली नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों 
प्रयोग करते हुए , मम्बद्ध विषय में आवश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात् की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य 
1 अगस्त, 1971 से मैसर्स देवन्द्र एक्सपोर्टस ( प्राइवेड ) लिमि निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 
टेड , जी - 1 , इण्डस्ट्रियल एस्टेट , अम्बातुर , मद्राम -58 नामक का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 
स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा उक्त परन्तुक के प्रयोजनों के लिए यिनिदिष्ट 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा 
करती है । 

( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार 
[सं० एस- 350 19( 114)/ 71- पी एफ -2 - ( i) ] उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती 


___ यह अधिसूचना 1971 की जुलाई के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जायगी । 

[ म ० एस - 350 19 ( 77) / 72-पी ०एफ०- 2 ] 


S . O . 3269. — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
the Messrs Prewo Private Limited , 71 , Second Main 
Road , Gandhinagar, Guind Road , Adyer , Madras - 20 , 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees Pro 
vident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 
of 1952), should be made applicable to the said estab 
lishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub- section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
sald Act to the said establishmen . 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of April, 1972. 

[ No. S- 35019 ( 59 ) / 72 -PF. II . ] 


का ० प्रा० 326/11 -- यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स प्रीवो प्राइवेट लिमिटेड, 71 सैकण्ड मेन रोड , 
गांधी नगर , गिण्ड रोड, अडयार , मद्रास - 20 नामक स्थापन से 
सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इम बात पर 
सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब 
वेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध 
उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतब्वाग लागू करती 


S . 0 . 3271. - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority oť the 
einployees in relation to the establishment known as 
the Me. srs Bombay Industries Association , Sahakar 
Bhawan, Near Narayan Nagar , Agra Road Ghatkoper , 
Bombay, have agreed that the provisions of the Im 
ployees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952) , should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferre. l 
by sub- se::tion ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the Cen 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be decmed to have come into 
force on the thirty- first day of October , 1971. 

[ No. S-35018 / 34 / 72-PF .II (1).] 
का ० प्रा० 32 7 1. - -- यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह 
प्रतीत होता है कि मैमर्स बाम्बे इएस्ट्रीज एसोसियेशन , महकार 
भवन , नागयण नगर के निकट , आगरा रोड, घाटाकोपर, बबई 
नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की 
बहुसंख्या इस बात पर महमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 

और कूटम्ब पंशन निधि अधिनियम, 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 
के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 


यह अधिसूचना 1972 के अप्रैल के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा 
हुई समझी जायगी । 

( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार 

उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू 
[ सं० एम - 35019 ( 59 ) / 72-पी०एफ०- 2] 

करती है । 
S . O . 3270 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern 

यह अधिसूचना 1971 के अक्तूबर के इकत्तीसवें दिन को 
ment that the employer and the majority of the em 
ployees in relation to the establishment known as प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जायगी । 
Messrs Photo Storcs, 101, M - - Connaught Circus, New 
Delhi, have agreed that the provisions of the Employces 

[ संख्या एस- 35018 ( 34 ) / 72-पी एफ - 2 ( i ) ] 
Provident Funds and Farmily Pension Fund Act , 1952 
(19 of 1952 ), should be made applicable to the said 
establishment; 

s0. 3272.-. - In exercise of the powers conferred by 

Hrst proviso to section t of the Employees Provident 
Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 190: 1952 ) , 
by sub - Section ( 4 ) of Section 1 of the said Act, the the Central Government, after making nece . suryen 
Central Government herehy applies the provisions of the 

quiry into the matter , hereby specifies with free from 
said Act to the said establishment. 

the 31st October, 1971 1he establishment nuvil us 

Messrs Bombay Industries Association , Sahalar 
This notification shall be deemed to havo come into Bhawan, Near Narayan Nagar, Agra Road Ghntrotper , 
force on the first day of July , 1971 , 

Bonibay - 86 for the purposes / the said prov : 50 . 
[ No , S - 35019 (77) / 72- PF. II. ] 

[ No. S . 35013/ 31 / 72 -FFII ( ii ) . ] 


S5c. 3 ( 1 ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4569 


का ० या ० 3272. - - केन्द्रीय सरकार , कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 
का 19 ) की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का 
प्रयोग करते हुए, सम्बद्ध विषय में आवश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात् 
31 अक्तूबर, 1971 से मैसर्स वाम्बे इण्डस्ट्रीज एसोसिएशन , 
सहकार भवन , नारायण नगर के निकट , आगरा गेड , घाटकोपर , 
मुम्बई- 86 नामक स्थापन को एतदद्वारा उक्त परन्तुक के प्रयोजनों 
के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 

[ संख्या एस-35018( 34 )/ 72-पीएफ .०-2( 1 ) ] 


का० प्रा० 3274 - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है 
कि मैसस महिन्दर पूरी एंड कं0 7-प्रेम हाऊस , कनाट लेस, नई दिल्ली 
नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध निमोनक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या 
इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और 
कुटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनिगम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के 
उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम 
के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लागू करती है । 

यह अधिसूचना 1971 को जनवरी, के प्रथम दिन मे प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझो जाएगी । 

[ संख्या एस- 35019 ( 78) / 72-पी० एफ० - 2] 


S. 0 . 3273. - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Vessrs Amarjyoti Sales and Agenci:- s ( P ) Limited , 
Station Road, Tumsar , District Bhandara, including 
its branches at Gondia and Warassoni ( Matthy ! Pra 
desh ) have agreed that ihe provisions of the Employees 
Frovident Funds and Family Fension Fund At, 1352 
( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said 
establishment ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the Cen 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
sad Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty -first day of October , 1970 

[ No. 2 -35018 (37) / 2 .PF.II (i) .] 
कामा) 32 73.---- यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है 
कि मैर्सम अमरज्योती सेल्प एण्ड एजेन्सीज ( प्रा . ) लिमिटेड , स्टेशन 
रोड़, तमसार जिना भाडारा , जिसमें गोदिया गोर वारस्सोनी 
( म . प्र ) में उसकी शाखाएं पम्भिरित हैं , नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध 
नियोजक और कर्म वारियों को वहांगा इस बात पर सहमत हो गई 
है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 
1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के अवंत्र उका स्थापन को लागू किए 
जाने चाहिए । 


S . O . 3275 . — Whereas Messrs Bombay Wire Ropes 
Limited , Kolshet Road. Thana, Bombay ( hereinafter 
referred to as the said establishment) has applied for 
exemption under clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 17 of the Employees Provident Funds and 
Funily Pension Fund Act 1952 (19 of 1952 ) ; 

And whereas in the cpinion of the Central Goverr 
tort, the rules of the provident qurd 0 : the said 
establishment with respect to the rates of contribution 
are not les ; iavourable io the employves trieren inull 
in se specified in section 6 of the sail Act , ani tije 
employees are also in enjoyment of other provident 
fuld benefits which on the whole are not ess avon: 
ale to the employees ihan the benefits : rovic. er under 
the said Act or under the Employees Provident Furds 
Scheme, 19 ; ( hereinaiter referred to as the said 
Scheme ) in relation to the employe - s in any other 
establishment of a similar character ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause ( a ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 17 of the 
said Act, and subject to the conditions specified in the 
Sonedule , annexed hereto , the Central Government 
hereby exempts the said establishment from the opera 
tion oi all the provisions of the said Schenne arci in 
pursuance of sub -section ( 3 ) of the said section 17 , 
the Central Government hereby directs that. -- - 
( a ) the employer in relation to the said establish 

ment shall pay within fifteen days of the close 
of the month 10 the Employees Provident 
Fund , inspection charges at the rate of 0 .09 
per cent ( zero point zero nine per cent) of the 
pay (basic wages dearness allowance , retain 
ing allowance, if any and cash value of food 
concession idnissible thereon ) for the timr 
being payable to the employees of the said 
establishment who would have become mem 
bers under the said Scheme but for this 
exes) ption ; 
the said empoyer shal invast the piovident 
fur. contrinut cns in accordance with the 
directions issued by the Central Government 
from time to t me. 


अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लागू करती है । 

यह अविसूचना 1970 के अक्टबर के इकत्तीनवे दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[संख्या एस० 35013 ( 37) / 72-पी० एफ० 2 ( i) ] 


( ) the 


S . O . 3274 .- Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Mohinder Puri and Company , 7 - Prem House , 
Connaught Place , New Delhi , have agreed that the 
jiovisions of the Employees Provident Funds ar ! ! 
Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ), should 
be made applicable to the said establishment ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act. the Cen 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of January. 1971 . 

[ No. S . 35019 (78) / 7 - F.II | 


THE SCHEDULE 
The einployer shall submit such returns in the 
Regional Provident Fund Commissioner as the 

Certral Government nmay , froin tiine to tune, 
___ prescribe. 
2 . The employer shall furnish to each employee on 

Annual Statement of Account or Pass Book . 
3 . All expenses involved in the administration of the 

Fun , including the maintenance of accounts . 
submission of accounts and returns, transfer 


4570 


- 


- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 

[ PART II - - 
__ _ - : - - : - -- -- - - - - - - 

- - -- - - -- - --- - - -- - -- - - - - - -. . . 
of accumulazi! ons, payment of inspection 

छूट देती है और उक्न धाग 17 की उपधारा ( 3 ) के अनुपरण में 
charges etc., sha :l be horne by the employer . 
4 . The cmployer shall display on the Notice Board 

केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा निदेश देती है कि -- 
of tle establish , nent a copy of the rules of the 
Fund as approved by the appropriata Guvei . 

( क ) उक्त स्थापन से समबद्धजियोजक उन स्थापन के उन 
inent and , as inc when amended , alungwith a 

कर्मचारियों को , जो याद यह छट न दी गई होती तो , 
translation of the salient points thereof in the 
language of the majority of the employees . 

उकन स्कीम के अधीन सदस्य ही गए होते , तत्ममय देय 
5 . Where an employee who is alrcady monher of 

बेलन ( अाधारिक मजदूरी मंगहाई भत्ता , प्रतिधारण 
the Employees Provident Fund ( Slututony 
Mund ) or the Provident Fund of another 

भला, यदि कोई हो और उस पर अनुज्ञेय खाद्य 
exempted establishment is employed in his 

रियायत का नकद मुल्य ) के 009 ( शन्य दशमलव 
establishment, the employer shall immediately 
enrul him is a member of the Fund of the 

शुन्य नौ प्रनिहान की दर से निरीक्षक प्रभार मामान्त 
establishmerit, an accept the past accumula 
tions in respect of such einployee and credit to 

के पन्द्रह दिन के भीतर कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 
his account. 

को देगा ; 
6 . The employer shall enhance the rate of provi 
dent furd contribution appropriately it the rule 

( ख ) रस्त नियोजक भविष्य निधि अभिदायो को , केन्द्रीय 
of proyident fund contributions for the class 
of establishments in which his establishment 

मरकार द्वारा समय समय पर निकाले गा निदेशों 
Inlls is enhanced under the Employees Prov : - - 

के अनुसार, विनिहित करेगा । 
dent Funds and Family Pension) Fund fict , 
1952 so that the benefits under the provident 
fund scheme of the establishment shall not 

अनुसूची 
become less favourable than the tenetit pro 
vided under the Employce " Provident Fiinois 
and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 . 

1. नियोजक प्रादेशिक भविष्य निधि आयक्त को वे विवरणियां 
The establishment shall submit an uited 

भेजेगा जिन्हें केन्द्रीय सरकार समय ममय पर विहित करे । 
balance sheet if it provident fund every year 
to the Regional Provident Fund Commissioner 

2. नियोजक प्रत्येक कर्मचारो को वार्षिक लेखा - विवरण या पास 
within 3 months of the close of the year , 
8 No amendnment of the rules of the provident 

हुन भेजेगा । 
fund shall be made without the prorous 
approval of the Regional Provident Fund Cn . 3. निधि के प्रगामन , जिसमें लेखायों का बनाए रखना , लेखात्रों 
mis toner . Where any amendment is likely 
to affect aclver - ply the interests of the cuplo 

सौर विवरणियों का भेना जाना , संचयों का अन्तरण निरीक्षण: 
yeas , the Regional Provident Fund Commnis 

प्रभारी प्रादि का संदाय सम्मिलित हैं , में अन्तलिल मभी व्ययों 
sioner shall, before givinr his approval , Five 
a reasonable opportunity to the employees to 

का बहा नियोजक द्वाराकिया जाएगा । 
explain their point of view . 
[ No, S. 35014 / 7 / 72 / PF -II ] 4. नियोजक समचित सरकार द्वाग अनुमोदित निधि के नियमों 

की एक प्रति स्थापन के मूचनापट्ट पर प्रदर्शित करेगा और जब 
का प्रा : 3275 .-- -- यतः मर्मम बाम्बे वायर रोप्स लिमिटेड, 

कभी उनमें सगोधन किया जायेगा नर कर्मचारियों की बह 
कोलगेट रोड , थाना , मम्बई , (निये इसमें इसके पाचात उक्न प्यापन 

संख्या की भाषा में उसको मुख्य मुग्न बातों का अनुबाद भी 
कड़ा गया है ) ने कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि योर कटुम्ब पेंशन निधि 

प्रदर्शित करेगा । 
अधिनिगम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) को धारा 17 को उपधारा 
( 1 ) के पण्ड ( क ) के अधीन छुट देने के लिए आवेदन किया है ; 

5 . यदि कोई ऐमा फर्मबारी , जो कर्मचारी धषिप्य निधि ( कान तो 

निध्रि ) या छट प्रानकिसी अन्य स्थापन की भविष्य निधि 
और पतः केन्मीय सरकार की गय में अभिदाय की दरों को 

का पहले ही से मदस्य है , उसके स्थापन में नियोजित होना है, तो 
बाल न उस स्थान के भविष्य निधि नियम उसके कर्मचारियों के 

नियोजक स्थापन की निधि के सदस्य के रूप में उसका नाम 
निए नियमों से कम अनुकूल नहीं है जो उक्त प्रविनियम को धाग 

तरन्त हो दर्ज करेगा और ऐसे कर्मचारी की बाबत उसके 
6 में विनिर्दिष्ट हैं , और कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि को अन्य प्रसुविधाएं 

पिछने संचयों को स्वीकार करके उन्हें उमके खाते में जमा 
भी रहे हैं जो कर्म वारियों के लिए कुल मिलाकर उन प्रसुबिधानों 

करेगा । 
से का अनकल नहीं हैं , जो , उसी प्रकार के किसी अन्य स्थापन के 

6 . यदि उस वर्ग के स्थापनों के लिए ,जिसमें नियोजक का स्थापन 
कर्मचारियों के संबंध में , उक्त अधिनियम के अधिन या कर्मचारी 

आता है , भविष्य निधि के अभिदायों को दर कर्मचारी भविष्य 
भविष्य निधि स्कीम, 1952 (जिसे इसमें इसके पश्चात उक्नस कोम 

निधि और कटम्न पंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 के अधोन 
कहा गया है ) के अधीन दी जाती है ; 

बढ़ा दो जाए तो नियोजक भविष्य निधि के अभिदायों की दर 
ग्रत , अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 17 की उपधारा ( 1 ) 

समचित रूप से बढ़ा देगा ताकि स्थापन की भविष्य निधि स्कोम 
के खण्ड ( क ) द्वारा प्रदान स्नियों का प्रयोग करते हर इसमे उपा 

के अधीन को प्रविधा उन प्रसुविधाओं में कम अनकल न 
बद्ध अनमूवी में विनिर्दिष्ट शों के प्रधान र डने हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार 

हो जाएं जिसकी व्यवस्था कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कटुम्त्र 
उक्त स्थान को उस्कोम के पभो अबधा कप नागे पदहारा 

पेंशन निधि अधिनियम 1952 के अधीन है । 


७७ 


SEC. 3 (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4571 


- 


-- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


विठल्ल दास लेन , मूलजी जैठा माकिट , बम्बई- 2, नामक स्थापन 
से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहसंख्या इस बात पर 
सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन 
निधि अधिनियम, 1952 ( 1952 का 19) के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन 
को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 


7. स्थापन अपनी भविष्य निधि का संपरीक्षित तुलनपत्र हर वर्ष 

प्रादेशिक भविष्य निधि पायक्त को वर्षान्त के तीन मास के 

भीतर भेजेगा । 
8. भविष्य निधी नियमों में कोई भी संशोधन प्रादेशिक भविष्य 

निधि आयुक्त के पूर्व अनुमोदन के विना नहीं किया जाएगा । 
जहां किसी संशोधन से कर्मचारियों के हितों पर प्रतिकुल प्रभाव 
पड़ना संभाव्य हो वहां प्रादेशिक भविष्य निधि आयुक्त , अपना 
अनुमोदन देने से पूर्व , कर्मचारियों को अपना दृष्टिकोण स्पष्ट 
करने का यक्तियस्त अवसर देगा । 

[ संख्या एप -5 35014 ( 7)/ 72-पी एफ- 2] 


अत :, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उतधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 

यह अधिपूचना 1971 की जून के तीपत्रे दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हई समझी जाएगी । 

[ सं०एस - 35018/ 40/ 72-पीएफ - 2] 


S . 0 . 3276. -. - Whereas it appears to the Central Guv 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Mazdoor Papers , Limited , Bari Mansion, 
Jamshedpur - 1 have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub -section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the Cen 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of January , 1958 . 

[ No . S. 35019 ( 69 ) / 71 - PT. II .] 
का० प्रा० 3276.----यत० केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स मजदूर पेपर्स लिमिटेड , बारी मैन्सन , जमशेद 
पुर - 1 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की 
बहसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 

और कुटुम्ब पेंगन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 
के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 


S . O . 3278 . Whereas.- it appears to the Central Gov. 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Bajaj Industrial Finance ( Private) Limited , 
United Life Building, F - Block, Connaught Place. New 
Delhi- 1, have agreed that the provisions of the Emplo 
yees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 
1952 (19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the 
said establishment; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section (4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the Cen 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of September, 1971. 

[ No. S. 35019 ( 72 ) / 72- PF II. I 
का० प्रा० 3278, - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैसर्स बजाज इंडस्ट्रियल फाइनेंस ( प्राइवेट )लिमिटेड, यनाइटिड 
इंडिया लाइफ बिल्डिग , एफ - लोक , कनाट प्लेम, नई दिल्ली , 1 
नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्यचारियों को वर 
संख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 

और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम, 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 
के अबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किये जाने चाहिये । 


अत :, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागु करती है । 

यह अधिसूचना 1958 की जनवरी के प्रथम दिन कौ प्रवत्त 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[सं० एम- 350 19 ( 69 ) /पी०एफ० 2 ] 


अतः अब , उन अधिनियम की धारा 1 को उपधारा 
( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सर 
कार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा 
लागू करतो है । 

यह अधिसूचना 1971 के सितम्बर, के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई सपझी जाएगी । 

[ सं० एस० - 35017 ( 72 )/ 72 - पी - एफ 2 ] 


S . O . 327 . - - Whereas it appears to the Cent al Guv 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
en ployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Vinodrai Manilal Company Private Limited , 
Sis Vithaldas Lane, Mulji Jetha Market, Bombay - 2 , 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees Pro 
vident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 
of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said esta 
blishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the Cen 
tral Government hereby applies the provis . ons of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notificatiori shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirtieth day of June, 1971 . 

[ No. S. 35018 (40) / 72-PF. II . ] 
का० प्रा० 3277. - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैसर्स विनोदगय मनीलाल कं०, प्राईवेट लिमिटेड, सिस 


S . O . 3279 . - Whereas it apears to the Central Gov 
errment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 

Messrs G . William Fabrications Private Limited, 15 . 
Mathura Road , Faridabad , including its branch 47 / 1 
Friends Colony , New Delhi have agreed that the provi 
sions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act , 1952 (19 of 1952) , should be made 
applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub -section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the Cen 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 


4572 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II.- - 


- - - - - - - 


- 


-- 


Employecs Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the Cen 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishirent. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come ir, to 
force on the Thirty - first day of March , 1971. 

[ No . S- 35017( 401 72 - PF [I. ] 
का० श्रा० 3281 . --- यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स पाल एंड एमोसिएट्स , पी - 241, लेक रोड , 
कलकना - 29 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों 
को बहसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कदम्ब पैशन निधि अधिनियम 1952 ( 1952 का 
19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 


अत :, अब उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 को उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लाग करती है । 


This notification shall come into force on the thirty 
first day of May, 1972. 

[ No. S. 35019( 61 ) / 72- FF .II ] 
का० प्रा० 3279 --- यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्म जीविलियम फैलीकेशन्स प्राइवेट लिमिटेड, 
15, मथुरारोड, फरिदावाद जिममें 47/ 1,फ्रेन्डम कालोनी, 
नई दिल्ली में उसकी शाखा सम्मिलित है, नामक स्थापन में 
सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहसंख्या इस बात पर 
सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुदम्ब 
पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबंध 
उक्त स्थापन को लाग किये जाने चाहिये ; 

अतः, अब , उन अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग कर ने हार केंद्रीय मरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लाग करतो ही 

यह अधिसूचना 1972 की मई के इक्तीमवें दिन को प्रवृत्त 
होगी । 

[ मं० एस० 35019( 61 ) / 72-पोएक 2] 
S . O . 3280 . — Whereas it appears to the Centrul Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment knowll as 
Messrs Kohinoor Engineering ( Private ) Limited . D - 2 , 
Industrial Estate , Ambattur, Madras - 58 includiny, its 
Administrative Office at 5A, Perambur Barracks Road , 
Madras- 7 have agreed that the provisions of the Em 
ployecs Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act , 1952 (19 of 1952) , should be made applicable to 
the said establishment ; 

Now , therefore , in cxorcise of the powers conferreri 
by sub- SC -1Jon ( 4 ) of section 1 of the shid Act, the Cen 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day ot July , 1971. 

[ No. S- 35019 / 101 / 71-PF .II. ] 
का० प्रा० 32810 ---- न केन्द्रीय सरकार का यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैसर्म कोहीनूर इंचोनी गि ( प्रा० ) लि० , डी - 2, इंडस्ट्रियल 
एस्टेट , सम्बातुर , महाम- 58 नया इमका प्रशासन कार्यालय- 5ए , 
परमवून बरेकम रोट , मद्रास- 7 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक 
योर कर्पारियों को बहुसंख्या इस बात पर महमत हो गई है कि 
कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि प्रोरकुनपंगत निधि पधिनियम , 1952 
( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने 
चाहिए ; 


यह अधिसूचना 1971 की मार्च के इकतीस दिन को प्रवन 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[मंध्या एम - 35017 ( 40)/ 72-पी० एफ -2 ] 


S . O . 3282 . - Whcrcas it appears to the Central Gov 


S.O. That thiation tothe Printi. New 


Prorident, 


cmployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Deversons Stylish Printing Press 5 . Malik 
Building . Chuna Mandi , Paharganj, New Delhi, have 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees Provident 
Funds and Family Fension Fund Act , 1952 (19 of 1952 ) , 
should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - sertion ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the Con 
tral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
sali Act to the sald establishment. 


frrce on the first day of April , 1970 . 

[ No . S. 35019 ( 170 ) / 71 - PF.II. ] 


का० प्रा० 3 282----प्रत केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैमर्म देवरसन्म स्टाईलिश प्रिन्टिंग प्रेम , 5 , मालिक 
विल्डिंग , चूना मंडी , पहाड़ गंज, नई दिल्ली नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध 
नियोजक और कर्मचारियों को बहसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो 
गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधि 
नियम 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू 
किए जाने चाहिए ; 


अतः, अब , उन अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदन शक्तियों का प्रयोग करने हा केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उग्र उक्त म्यान को पनवाग लागू करती है । 

यह अधिपूचना 1071 के जुलाई, के प्रथम दिन को प्रबन 
हुई समनी जाएगी । 

[ सं० एम- 35019 ( 101 )/ 71-पी० एफ० 2] 


अत :, अब, उक्न अधिनियम की धारा 1 को उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को पतवाग लागू करती है । 


यह अधिसूचना 1970 के अप्रैल के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई ममझी जाएगी । 


S . O . 3281. - - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs. Pal and Associates , P / 241 , Lake Road , 
Calcuttu - 29 have agreed that the provisions of the 


[मं० एम -35019( 70 ) 71 पी एफ- 2] 


SLC. 3( ii 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 


4573 


यह अधिसूचना 1972 की मई के प्रथम दिन की प्रवृत्त हुई 
ममझी जाएगी । 

[ मं० एम० 3500 19 ( 69 )/ 72-पी०एफ०- 2 ] 


S . O . 3283. - Whereas it appears to the Central Gy 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messers Frontier Engineering Cony ruction Company 
Private Ltd., Jorpukhuri, Fast Gatthati - 1 , District , 
Kamrup , Assam , have read that the provisions of 
the Ernployees Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , should be made applicable to 
the said cstablishment; 

Now , therefore , in excrcise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section (4 ) of section 1 of the suid Act, the 
Central Government heruhy applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of July , 1971. 

___ [ No. S. 35019 ( 66 )/ 72- PF .II . ] 


का० प्रा० 3 28 :3 - ~ यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैसर्स फन्टियर इंजीनियरिंग कन्सट्रक्शन कम्पनी प्राइवेट 
लिमिटेड जोरपुरवरी , पूर्वीगौहाटी 1, जिला कामरूप , असम 
नामक स्थापन मे सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या 
इस बात पर महमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और 
कूटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के 
उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लाग किए जाने चाहिए ; 


S . O . 3285 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Gor 
ernment that the cmployer and the majority of ihe 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs . Indian Humc Pipe Co. Ltd., Venkatala , P. O . 
Yelahanka , Bangalore North District, have agreed 
that the provisions of the Employcius Provident Funds 
and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , 
should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in excrcisc of the powers confer 
red by sub - section ( 4 ) of sction 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notifcation shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thirty -first day of March, 1970 . 

___ [ No . S - 35019 ( 28 ) / 72 - PF.II .] 
का० प्रा० 3285-- - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैसर्स इण्डिया र यम पाइप कं लिमिटेड , वेन्कटाला , डाकघर 
येलाहन्का , बंगलौर नार्थ डिस्ट्रिक्ट नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध 
नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई 
है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पैंशन निधि अधिनियम 
1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू 
किए जाने चाहिए । 


प्रतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एनद्वारा लागू करती है । 

यह अधिसूचना 1971 की जुलाई के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
हुई समझी जाएगो । 

[ सं० एम- 35019( 66 )/ 72-पीएफ 2] 


अत :, अब उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लाग करती है । 

यह अधिसूचना 1970 की मार्च के इक्त्तीसवें दिन को 
प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ संख्या एस 35019 ( 28/ 72 -पी०एफ.2] 


S . O . 3284 .- - Whereas it appears to the Central Guv 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Tiruppur Dycings Bleaching Works , Pethi 
chettipuram , Tiruppur - 1 , have agreed that the provi 
sions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made 
applicable to the said establishmrnt; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub -section ( 4 ) of section l of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of May , 1972, 

[ No. S - 35019 ( 69 ) / 72 - PF . II . ] 


S . O . 3286 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs . Thermrite Enginccring Private Limited Bhogari 
Industrial Estate, Nasik Road , Poona - 26 have agreed 
that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds 
and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , 
should be made applicable to the said cstablishment, 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment, 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of January, 1971 . 

[ No. S - 35018( 21 ) / 72- PF II.( i) ] 


का०पा० 3284 - - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैमर्स तिरपुर डाइंगम ब्लीचिंग वर्क्स, पेथी नेट्टीपुरम , 
तिम्रूप्पुर- 1 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों 
की बहसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और फूटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 
19 ) के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 

अत :, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लाग करती है 


का०या० 3286 - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता 
है कि मैसर्स थर्रइिट इंजीनियरिंग ( प्राइवेट ) लिमिटेड , भोसरी 
इण्डस्ट्रीयल एस्टेट , नासिक रोड , पुणे , 26 नामक से स्थापन 
से संबंध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर 
सहमत हो गई कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कटम्ब पेंशन 
निधि अधिनियम 1952 ( 1952 का 19 के उप ध उक्त 
स्थापन में लागू किए ज न चाहिए । 


... -- - - - 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


4574 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 , 1972/ ASVINA 29 , 1894 

[ PART 11 
- -- - - . . - . 
अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 

S . O . 3289 . — Whercas it appears to the Central Gov 

ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त employees in relation to the cstablishment known as 

Messrs. Appex Gas Service , Soni house , opposite Roop 
अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती है । Talkies , Nehru Road , Santacruz ( East) Bombay - 55 

have agreed that the provisions of the Employees 
यह अधिसूचना 1971 की जनवरी के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 

( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said 
हुई समझी जाएगी । 

establishment ; 

Now , therefore, in exercisc of the powers conferred 
[सं एस-35018 ( 21 )/ 72- पी एफ - 2(1) ] 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act, the 

Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
S . O . 3287. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the said Act to the said establishment. 
first proviso to section 6 of the Employees Provident 

This notification shall be deemed to have come in 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 (19 of 

to force on the thirtieth day of September , 1971, 
1952 ) , the Central Government , after making neces 
sary enquiry into the matter , hereby specifies with 

[ No. S - 35018 (47) /72- PF. II .] 
effect from the 1st January, 1971 the establishment 
known as Messrs. Thermrite Engneering Private 

का० प्रा० 3 289. -- यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है 
Limited , Bhosari Industrial Estate, Nasik Road, Poona 
26 for the purposes of the said proviso . 

कि मैसर्स अपक्स गैम विस , सोनी हाउस , म्प टाकीज के सामने 
[ No. S - 35018 ( 21 ) /72 - PF.II. ( ii ) ] 

नेहरू रोड , सान्ता क्रूज ( पूर्व ), मुम्बई- 5 5 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध 
का० प्रा० 3287 - - केन्द्रीय सरकार, कर्मचारी भविष्य 

नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो 
निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 

गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कूटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधि 
का 19) की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 

नियम , 195 2 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू 
का प्रयोग करते हुए संबद्ध विषय में आवश्यक जांच करने के 

किए जाने चाहिए । 
पश्चात् 1 जनवरी 1971 से थर्मराइट इजिनियरिंग ( प्राइवेट ) 
लिमिटेड, भोसरी इंडस्ट्रीयल एस्टेट , न सिक रोड, पूना-26 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
नामक स्थापन को एतद द्वारा उक्त परन्तुक के प्रयोजनों के लिए द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 

अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापान को एतद्वारा लाग करती है । 
[ सं० एस - 35018 ( 21) / 72-पी०एफ - 2 ( ii ) ] 

यह अधिसूचना 1971 के सितम्बर के तीसवें दिन के 

समझी जायेगी । 
S . 0 .3288 . — Whereas it appears to the Central V 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
employees in relation to the establishment known as 

[ सं० एस- 35018( 47)/ 72-पी एफ ०- 2 ] 
The Trichur Cooperative House Building Society Limi 
ted , No. R . 260, Nehru Nagar, Trichur - 6, have agreed 

S . O . 3290 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Guv 
that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds 

ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , 

employees in relation to the establishment known as 
should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Messrs. Metacarv , 31 and 40 Municipal Industrial Estate , 
Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 

Keshav Rao Khade Marg , Next to Simplex Mills , 

Bombay - 11 have agreed that the provisions of the 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 

Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 

Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

to the said establishment; 
This notification shall come into force on the thirty Now , therefore in exercise of the powers conferred 
first day of May , 1972 , 

by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 

Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
[ No. S - 35019 ( 29 ) / 72 - PF.II. ] 

the said Act to the said establishment 
का०मा० 3288 . -- यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है 

This notification shall be deened to have come into 

force on the thirtieth day of June, 1971. 
कि मैसर्स त्रिचूर कोआपरेटिव हाउस बिल्डिग सोसाइटी लिमिटेड , 

[ No. S - 35018 ( 43 ) / 72- PF. II .] 
सं० प्रार- 260, नेहरू नगर, त्रिचर - 6 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध 
नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत 

का० श्रा० 3200 . --- यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि होता है कि मैसस मेटाकार्व, 31 और 40 म्युनिसिपल इंडस्ट्रियल 
अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबंध उक्त 

एस्टेट ,केशवराव खाडे मार्ग सिम्पलेक्स मिल्स से लगा हया, मुम्बई -11 
स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 

नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या 

इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और 
अत :, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा की उपधारा ( 4 ) 

कटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19) के 
वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधि 

उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 
नियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लाग करती है । 

प्रत , अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 
यह अधिसूचना 1972 की मई के 31वें दिन को प्रवृत होगी । 

द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
[ सं० एस - 35019 ( 29)/ 72 -पी० एफ० 2] अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 


now Char 


- - - 


- 


- - 


SEC. ( ii ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 

4575 
- - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
यह अधिसूचना 1971 को जून के तीसवें दिन कोई प्रवृत्त पेंशन निधि अधियनयम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध 
हुई समझी जायगी । 

उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 
[ सं० एस० 35018 ( 43) / 72 -पी० एफ० 2] 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 

द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
S . O , 3291...- Whereas it appears to the Central Gov 

अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती 
ernment that the employer and the Inajority of the 
enployees in relation to the establishment known as करती है । 
Messrs Calcutia Motor Dealers Association , C . M . D . A . 
Buildings, 8, Low Strect , Calcutta- 12 have agreed that 
the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and 

यह अधिसूचना 1970 को नवम्बर के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त 
Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be 

हुई समझी जायगी । 
made applicable to the said establishment; 
Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 

[ सं० एस० 35018 ( 45 ) / 72 - पी ० एफ ०2 ] 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 

S . O . 3293 . - -In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

first proviso to section 6 of the Employees Provident 

Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 
This notification shall be decmed to have come into 

123 ) , thc Central Government, after making neceg 
force on the first day of August, 1971 . 

sury enquiry into the matter , hereby specifies with 
[ No. S - 35017 (16 ) / 72 - PF .II. ] effect from the 1st October , 1970, the establishment 

known asMessrs . Amarjyoti Sales and Agencies ( P ) LI 
का० प्रा० 3291. ---यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 

mited . Station Road , Tumsar, District Bhandara includ 

ing its brances at Gondia and Warassoni (Madhya Pra 
होता है कि मैमर्स कलकत्ता मोटर डोलर्ज एशोमिएशन , सी० एम० desh ) for the purposes of the said proviso . 
डी ए बिल्डिंगज - 8 बोव स्ट्रीट , कलकत्ता-- 12 नामक स्थापन 

____ [ No. S-35018(37 )/ 72- PF. II .(11 ).] 
से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या हम बात सहमत 

का ० प्रा० 329.3: -~- केन्द्रीय सरकार , कर्मचारी भविष्य 
हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम, 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 
अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपवन्ध उक्त स्थापन की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 

हुए, संबद्धविषय में आवश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात् 31 अक्टूबर, 

1970 से मैसर्स अमर ज्योति सेल्स एण्ड एजेन्सीज ( प्रा . ) लिमिटेड , 
अत : अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) 

स्टेशन रोड, तुमसार , जिला भण्डारा , जिसमें गोदिया और वारास्सोनी 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय उरकार उक्त 

में उमकी शाखाएं मम्मिलित हैं नामक स्थापन को एतद्वारा 
अधिनियम के उपबन्ध स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती है । 

उक्त परन्तुक के प्रयोजनों के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1971 के अगस्त के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई 
ममझी जाएगी । 

[ सं० एम 0 3 5 0 1 8 ( 37) / 72 - पी ० एफ ०2 (ii) ] 


[सं० एम० 350 17 ( 16 )/ 72 -पी० एफ० 2] 


S . O . 3292. -- Whercas it appears to the Central Gov 
ernment that the employer and the majority of the 
Employees in relation to the establishment known as 
the Messrs Coronet Pharmaceuticals 9, Shantinagar 
Industrial Estate, Vakola Santacruz ( East ) Bona bay - 55 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employecs 
Provident Funds and Family Pension Find Act, 1952. 
( 19 of 1952 ) , should be applicable to the said estab 
lishment ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 1 of the said Act , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the sald establishment. 

This notifcation shall be deemed to have come 
into force on the first day of November, 1970. 

[ No. S - 35018 ( 45 ) / 72- PF.II. ] 


S . O . 3294 . In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the first proviso to section 6 of the Employees Provi 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 
of 1952 ) , the Central Government , after making neces 
sary cnquiry into the matter , hereby specifles with 
effect from the 1st July , 1971 the establishment known 
as Messrs Suman Export Corporation 61-Sunder 
Nagar, New Delhi including its branch at World Trade 
Centre, 9th Floor, 13 / B - 1 Ezra Street , Calcutta for 
the purposes of the said provigo . 

[ No. S - 35019(75 ) / 72 - PF. II.(ii) .] 
का ० प्रा० 329 4. - - केन्द्रीय सरकार कर्मचारी भविष्य 
निधि और कुटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 
की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए 
सम्बद्ध विषय में आवश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात् 1 जुलाई , 
1971 से मैसर्स सुमन एक्सपोर्ट कार्पोरेशन , 61 - सुन्दर नगर , 
नई दिल्ली तथा इसकी श खा वर्ल्ड ट्रेड सेन्टर, नौवी मंजिल , 13 / बी 
1 , इजरा स्ट्रीट , कलकत्ता , नामक स्थापन को एतद्वारा उक्त 
परन्तुक के प्रयोजनों के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 

[सं० एस०- 35019 ( 75) / 72--पी एफ -2 ( ii )] 

New Delhi, the 3rd August 1972 
S .O . 3295 . - In pursuance of clause ( c) of sub -sec 
tion ( 1 ) of section 5A of the Employees Provident 


का ० प्रा० 329 2: - -- यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत 
होता है कि मैसर्स कोरोनेट फार्मेस्यूटिकल्स - 9, शान्ति नगर 
इन्डस्ट्रियल एस्टेट , वकोला सान्ताज ( पूर्व ) मुम्बई - 55 नामक 
स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और कर्माचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस 
बात पर सहमत हो गई है कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कट म्ब 


4576 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / AŞVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II -- 


Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 9 of 1952 ) 
the Central Government hereby appoints the Secretary 
to the Government of Kerala , Labour Department, 
Trivandrum , as a member of the Central Board of 
Trustees and makes the following further amendments 
in the notification of the Government of India , in the 
Ministry of Labour , Employment and Rehabilitation 
( Department of Labour and Employment ) No. S . O . 
2412 dated the 6th July , 1970 namely : 

In the said notification against serial No. 9 fur the 
entry " The Deputy Secretary (Henlth and Labour ) 1. 
the Government of Kerala , Health and Labour ( G ) , 
Department , Trivandrum " the following entry shall 
be substituted, namely: -- 
" The Secretary to the Government of Kerala, La 
bour Department, Trivandrum ." 

No. 12/ 5769- PF, II . ] 
नई दिल्ली , 3 अगस्त , 1972 


(Department of Labour and Employment ) 

___ New Delhi, the 2nd August 1972 
S . O . 3291. - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 6 of the Coal Mines Labour Welfare Fund Act, 
1947 ( 32 of 1847 ) , read with clause ( v ) of sub -rule ( i ) 
of rule 6 of the Coal Mines Labour Welfare Fund 
Rules, 1949 the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shri N . N . Singh as a member of the Coal Mines La 
bour Ilousing Board vice Shri W . J , Jameson , since ex 
pired , and makes the following amendment in the noti 
fication of the Government of India , Ministry of La 
bour , Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of 
Labour and Employment ) No. S . O . 1014 dated the 
6th March, 1970 . namely : .. 

In the said notification , against Serial No. 7 , for 
the entry " Shri W . J , Jameson ", the following entry 
shall be substituted , namely : 

" Shri N . N. Singh. " 


[ No. U . 23025 / 10 / 71- M. II.] 

P. R. NAYAR, Under Secy . 
( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 


नई दिल्ली , 2 अगस्त , 1972 


का० प्रा० 3295. -- कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और 
कुटुम्ब पेंशन अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) की धारा 5 - क 
की उपधारा 1 के खण्ड ( ग ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार, केरल सरकार के सचिव , श्रम विभाग , त्रिवेन्द्रम 
को केन्द्रीय नियासी बोर्ड के एक सदस्य के रूप में एतद्वारा 
नियुक्त करती है और भारत सरकार के श्रम , रोजगार और पुनर्वास 
मन्त्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं ० का ० नि ० 
2412 तारीख 6 जलाई , 1970 में निम्नलिखित संशोधन करती है, 
अर्थात : -- - 

उक्त अधिसूचना में , क्रम संख्या 9 के सामने वाली प्रविष्टि के 
स्थान पर, केरल सरकार के उप - सचिव ( स्वास्थ्य तथा श्रम ) , 
स्वास्थय तथा श्रम ( छ ) विभाग , त्रिवेन्द्रम " प्रविष्टि के लिए , 
निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टि प्रतिस्थापित की जायगी, अर्थातः -- 
"केरल सरकार के सचिव , श्रम विभाग, त्रिवेन्द्रम 

[ सं० 12 ( 5 )/ 69 -- पी एफ 2 ] 
New Delhi , the 4th August 1972 
S . O . 3296. - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - section ( 1 ) of section 3 of the Employecs Provi 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 119 
of 1952 ) , the Central Government hereby rescinds the 
notifications of the Government of India in the Minis 
try of Labour and Employment No. S . O . 2555 dated 
the 30th August , 1963 and in the Ministry of Labour, 
Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of 
Labour and Employment ) No. S. O . 2281 dated the 3rd 
June. 1969 . 

[ No. 20( 9 ) / 68 - PF.I. ] 
DALJIT SINGH , Under Secy , 
नई दिल्ली, 4 अगस्त 1972 
का ० प्रा० 3296. - - कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब 
पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) की धारा 13 
की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय 
सरकार, भारत सरकार के श्रम और रोजगार मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना 
संख्या का ० प्रा० 2555, तारीख 30 अगस्त , 1963 और श्रम , 
रोजगार और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 
की अधिसूचना संख्या का ० प्रा० 2281, तारीख 3 जून , 1969 
को एतद्वारा विखण्डित करती है । 

[सं० 20 ( 9) / 68– पी ० एफ 01 ] 

दलजीत सिंह, अवर सचिव । 


का० श्रा० 3297. - - कोयला खान श्रम कल्याण निधि 
नियम , 1949 के नियम 6 के उप -नियम ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( V ) 
के साथ पठित कोयला खान श्रम कल्याण निधि अधिनियम , 1947 
( 1947 का 32 ) की धारा 6 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा श्री डब्ल्यू . जे . जमसन 
जिनका देहान्त हो गया है के स्थान पर श्री एन० एन० सिंह को 
कोयला खान श्रम प्रावासन बोई का सदस्य नियुक्त करती है और 
भारत सरकार के, श्रम, रोजगार और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम 

और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना संख्या का प्रा . 1014 
तारीख 6 मार्च, 1970 में निम्नलिखित संशोधन करती है , 
अर्थात् : --- 

उक्न अधिसूचना में क्रम संख्या 7 के सामने की प्रविष्टि 
" श्री डब्ल्यू ० जे० जेममन " के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित 
प्रविष्टि प्रतिस्थापित की जाएगी , अर्थात् : 
" श्री एन० एन० सिंह " 


[ सं० यू० 23025/ 10/ 71 -एम० 2] 


पी० पार० नैय्यर, अवर सचिव । 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Dellii , the 4th August 1972 
S .O . 3298Whereas the Indian Mining Association 
has nominated under clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 12 of the Mines Act , 1952 ( 35 of 1952 ) , Shri H . 
Niyogi in place of Shri S . K . Nargundkar as member 
of the Mining Board constituted for the State of Bihar ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 12 of the Mines Act, 
1952 ( 35 of 1952 ), the Central Government hereby 
makes the following amendment in the notification of 
the Government of India in late Ministry of Labour 


SEC . 3 ( ii ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4577 


- - - - 


- 


- - 


and Employment No. S . O . 3938, dated the 22nd Dec 
ember , 1962 , namely : 


In the said notification , under the heading “ Mem 
bers" against serial number ( 3 ) . for the existint entry , 
the following entry shall be substituted . namely : 
" Shri IT Niyogi, Chief Mining Ensinccr , The Tn a 

Iron and Stecl Co Ltd.. Jamadoba, P. O . Jeal 

Fora, Distt . Dhanbad . 
(Nominated by the Indian Mining Association 
under clause ( d ) of section 12( 1 ) ] ". 

[ No. V -22012/ 3/ 72- MI .] 
____ B. K . SAKSENA, Under Secy. 
( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 


Labour and Employment ) No. S .O . 582, dated the 9th 
February , 1967, namely : 

In the said notification , 

( a ) under the heading " Members representing the 
Central Government ", for item ( 1 ) , the following item 
shall be substituted, namely : 
" ( 1 ) Shri S . Y . Ranade, Chairman of the Board of 

Trustees of the Fort of Bombay - Chairman. " 
( b ) for paragraph 2 , the following paragraph shall 
be substituted, namely : -- 
" ( 2 ) The Central Government hereby nominates 

Shri S . Y . Ranade as Chairman of the said 

Board ." 
2 This notification shall be deemed to have come 
into force on the 26th May . 1972. 

[ No. 51 / 5/ 68- Fac.II P & D .] 
( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 


नई दिल्ली , 4 अगस्त , 1972 


का० प्रा० 3298. - - यत : भारतीय खनन मंगम ने खान अधि 
नियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 35 ) की धारा 12 की उपधाग 
( 1 ) के खंड ( घ ) के अधीन श्री एम० के० नगदकर के 
स्थान पर श्री एच० नियोगी के बिहार राज्य के लिये गठिन 
खनन बोर्ड के सदस्य के रूप में नामनिर्देशित किया है ; 

अतः, अब , खान अधिनियम 1952 की धारा 12 की 
उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए 
केन्द्रीय सरकार भारत सरकार के भतार्व श्रम जोर रोजगार 
मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना मं० का० पा० 3938 नारी 22 
दिसम्बर , 1962 में एतनदारा निम्नलिखित मंगोधन करती 
है , अर्थात् :-- -- 

उक्त अधिसूचना में मदम " गीई के अन्तर्गत का पच्या 
( 3 ) के म मुख विद्यमान प्रविष्टि के स्थान पर निम्ननिखिन 
प्रविष्टि रखी जाएगी , अर्थात् ----- 

" श्री एच० नियोगी , 
मुख्य खनन इंजीनियर 
टाटा पाइरन एंड स्टोन कम्पनी लिमिटेन 
जामदोबा पो० प्रो० जीनगोग , निना धननाद । " 
[ धाग 12 ( 1 ) के खंड ( घ ) के अधीन भारतीय खनन 
संगम द्वारा नामनिर्दिष्ट ] " 


नई दिल्ली , 5 अगस्त , 1972 
का० प्रा० 3299. - - डाक कर्मकार (नियोजन का 
यिनियमन ) अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 9 ) को धारा 5- क 
की उपधाराओं ( 3 ) और ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा श्री एम . वाई० रानाडे को 
श्री गोविन्द एच० मेट के स्थान पर बम्बई डाक श्रम बोर्ड के सदस्य 
के रूप में नियक्त करती है और भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व श्रम, 
रोजगार पोर पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की 
अधिसूचना मन्या का० प्रा० 582 तारीख 9 फरवरी, 1967 में 
पोर प्रागे निम्नलिखिन संशोधन करती है , अर्थात् : - - 

1 " केन्द्रीय सरकार का प्रतिनिधित्व करने वाले सदस्य " 

शीर्षक के अन्तर्गत , मद्द ( 1 ) के लिए निम्नलिखित 
मद को प्रतिस्थापित किया जाएगा , अर्थात : - - 
“ ( 1 ) श्री एम . वाई . रानाडे, बम्बई पोत के न्यामी 

बोर्ड के अध्यक्ष . . . . . . . . . . . . अध्यक्ष । " 
( 2 ) पैग 2 के लिए निम्नलिखित पैरा प्रतिस्थापित 

किया जाएगा, अर्थात् :---- 
" केन्द्रीय सरकार श्री एम० वाई० रानाडे को 

एतद्वारा उक्त बोर्ड के अध्यक्ष के रूप में 
नामित करती है । " 


[सं० घो०-- 22. 01 / 3/ 72 - T.T० पाई. ] 


2 . यह अधिसूचना 26 मई, 1972 से लाग हुई मानी जाएगी । 

[संख्या 51/ 5/ 68-फैक - 2/ पी० एण्ड डी० ] 


बी० के० सपना, अपर चित्र । 


(Department of Labour and Employment ) 

New Delhi, the 5th August 1972 
S . O . 3299 . -- In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - sections ( 3 ) and ( 1 ) of section SA of the Dock 
Workers (Regulation of Employmenil Act, 1918 ( 9 of 
1948 ) , the Central Government her by appoin s Shri 
S . Y . Ranadc. as a member of te Bollmbay Doclt La 
bour Board vice Shri Govind II. Seth and makes the 
following further amendments in the notification of 
the Government of India in the late Ministry of La 
bour, Employment and Rehabilitation ( Department of 


ORDERS 
New Delhi, the 29th June 1972 
S . 0 . 3300. - Wherens the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the management of New 
Chirimiri Ponri Hill Colliery , Post Office Chirimiri, 
District Surguja (Madhya Pradesh ) , and their work 
men in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule 
hercto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 


4578 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II . 


- .. - . 


. . 


- - - - - 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Cen 
tral Government hereby refers the said dispute for 
adjudication to the Central Government Industrial 
Tribunal, Jabalpur, constituted under section 7A of 
the said Act. 


अत :, अब , औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 
का 14) की धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के ख " ( 1 ) द्वारा 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार एलद्वारा 
उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7 क के अधीन गठित 
केन्द्रीय सरकार प्रौद्योगिक अधिकरण , जबलपूर को न्यायनिर्णयन 
के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 


अनुसूची 


स्या त्य निरिमिरि पोनरी हिल कोलियरी, डाकघर चिरिमिरि , 

जिला सरगुजा ( मध्य प्रदेश ) के प्रबन्ध नत्र का , नीचे 
सूचीबद्ध किए गए 46 वर्मकारों की 29 मार्च, 1971 
से 3 अप्रैल, 1971 तक कामबन्दी करना , 6 दिनों 
की मजदूरी काटना और उनकी सेवा भंग करना न्या 
योचित था ? यदि नहीं , तो कर्मकार किम अनतोष के 
हकदार है? 


सी० एल० 


यथोक्त 


SCHEDULE 
" Whether the management of New Chirimiri Ponri 
Hili colliery , Post Once Chirimiri, District Surguja 
( Madhya Pradesh) , was justified in laying off the 46 
workmen listed below from the 29th March , 1971 to 
the 3rd April, 1971, deducting 6 days wages and caus 
ing break in service ? If not, to what relicf at the 
workmen entitled ? 

1. Shri Jhir Punisa / Chupli CL 
2 . Shri Ramdas / Sukdas CL 
3. Shri Siv Pd / Dalloo CL 
4 . Shri Siv Pd / Manglu CL 
5 . Shri Jagmohan /Manglalsai CL 

Shri Babulal/ Bharakant CL 
Shri Biderli / Khudiram CL 
Shri Budhu Singn / lvianiram CL 

Shri Ranjit / Hannoo CL 
10 . Shri Ramlal / Bhagat CL 

Shri Ramadar / Ganesh CL 

Shri Nanku / Jeodhan CL 
13 . Shri Prem/ Dukkiram CL 
14 . Shri Makhan / Bandhu CL 
15 . Shri Chamaru / Pavelram CL 
18. Shri Hariharasi / Khanchul CL 
17 . Shri Lokeshram / Khodu CL 
18. Shri Chatu / Bajrangi CL 
19 . Shri Dadoo /Dadai CL 

Shri Buta /Segdayal CL 
21. Shri Jagdeo / Raghubar CL 
22. Shri Bindeswar / Rama CL 

Shri Basali /Ramsai CL 
Shri Dcolal/ Budhu CL 

Shri Nanku / Bhikhari CL 
26 . Shri Charku / Kamod CL 
27 . Shri Banhar /Kameswar CL 
28 . Shri Gedaram / Bodal CL 
29. Shri Ramlakhan / Bandhu CL 
30 . Shri Budhu / Thumoo CL 
31. Shri Alagram /Khuni CL 
32. Shri Lalman/ Gohandal CL 
33. Shri Dukhan / Bodhan CL 
34. Shri Gajadhar/ HIawala CL 
35 . Shri Jagdhari/Dilhodh CD 

Shri Balku /Dilram CD 

Shri Sashi/Haru CD 
38 . Shri Janak / Hari Pd . CD 
39. Shri Satrughana/ Ram CD 

Shri Sankar / Hari Pd. ( 
41. Shri Gangaram /Budha CD 
42. Shri Parsu / Soma CD 
43. Shri Budhram/ Nanki CD 
44 . Shri Ram Singh / Subraj CD 
45 Shri Ramdas / Jagmohan CD 
46. Shri Moharsai / Samalsai D . C . Driller . " 

[ No. L / 22011 / 6 / 72 - LRII. ] 


1. श्री झिर पुनिसा/ चपली 
2 . श्री रामदास / सुकदास 
3. श्री मिव प्रसाद/ डाल्लू 
4. श्री सिव प्रसाद मंगल 
5 . श्री जगमोहन / मंगलालसाई 
6. श्री बाबुलाल / भगाकान्त 
7. श्री बिदाली / खुदीराम 
8 श्री बुधू सिंह / मनीराम 
9. श्री रनजीत हन्नू 
10. श्री रामलाल भगत 
11. श्री रामादर/ गनेश 
12. श्री ननकू / जीवक्षन 
13. श्री प्रेम / दुक्कीराम 
11. श्री माखन /बन्धु 
15. श्री चमारू / पवेलराम 
16. श्री हरीहारासी / खाननुल 
17. श्री लोकेशग़म ग्यो 
1 ३. श्री चात / बजरंगी 
19. श्री दादूदढाई 
20. श्री बृटा / मेकदयाल 
21. श्री जगदेव रघुबर 
22. श्री बिन्देस्वर गमा 
23. श्री बामाली/ रामसाई 
24. श्री देव लाल बुधु 
25. श्री ननक भिखारी 
26. श्री चरकु कमोद 
27. श्री बनहर / कारोबर 
28. श्री गेदाराम/बोल 
29. श्री रामनन्दन बन्द 
30. श्री वुद्ध/ थम 
31 . श्री अमर 


प्रयोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोबत 
यथोक्त 
यथावत 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्न 
यथोक्न 
यथोक्त 
पथोक्त 
सधोक्न 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोवर. 
योका 
यथोक्त 
यभोक्त 
यीयत 
योक्त 
मोर 
ययावत 


प्रादेश 


नई दिल्ली , 29 जून , 1972 
का० प्रा० 3300 . - - यनः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है 
कि इससे उपाबद्ध अनगुची में विनिदिष्ट विषयों के बारे में लग 
चिरिमिरि पोनरी हिल कोलियरी , डाकघर चिरिमिरि , जिला 
सरगजा ( मध्य प्रदेश ) के प्रबन्ध तंत्र से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके 
कर्मकारों के बीच एक औद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है । 


और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन 
के लिय निर्देशित करना वांछनीय समझती है ; 


SEC. 3 (i ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4579 


- 


- 


- 


- 


If not , to what relief are the workmen em 
ployed by these Managing Contractors entiti 


ed ? " 


32 श्री लालमन /गोहांदल 

सी० एल० 
33. श्री दुखन / बोधन 

यथोक्त 
34. श्री गजाधर हवाला 

यथोक्त 
35. श्री जगधारी / दिलबोध 

सी . डी० 
36. श्री बालक /दिगम 

यथोक्त 
37. श्री समी/ हरू 

यथोक्त 
38. श्री जनक /हरी प्रमाद 

यथोक्त 
39. श्री सत्रुधन / राम 

यथोक्त 
40. श्री संकर/ हरी प्रसाद 

यथोषत 
41. श्री गंगाराम बुधा 

यथोक्त 
42. श्री परम / मोमा 

यथोक्त 
43. श्री बुधराम /नानकी 

यथोक्त 
44. श्री राम सिह / सुबराज 

यथोक्त 
45. श्री रामदास / जगमोहन 

यथोक्त 
46. श्री मोहरसाई/ सामलसाई 

डी० मी० झिल्लर " 
[ संख्या एल/ 22011/ 6/ 72-एल० प्रार०-2] 

वी० शंकगलिंगम , अवर सचिव । 


[ No. L / 2012 / 74 / 72 -DRII(i).] 
( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 

प्रादेश 
नई दिल्ली, 26 जुलाई, 1972 
का० श्रा० 33 02. - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि 
इमसे उपावद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में मैसर्स 
ज्योडेटिक कोल कम्पनी , प्रबन्धक ठेकेदार, ब्लाक संख्या 1, केदला 
कोलियरी, डाकघर केदला, जिला हजारीबाग के प्रबन्ध से सम्बद्ध 
नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक औद्योगिक विवाद 
विद्यमान है । 

और यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के 
लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय समझती है ; 

अतः, अब , प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 
14 ) की धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रवत्त 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए, केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा उक्त 
विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7-क के अधीन गठित केन्द्रीय 
सरकार प्रौद्योगिक प्रधिकरण , ( संख्या 1 ) धनबाद को न्यायनिर्णयन 
के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 27th July 1972 
S . 0 . 3301. --.In the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Labour and Rehabilitation 
(Departent of Labour and Employment) No. S . O . 3530, 
dated the 10th September , 1971 published at pages 
4965 to 4968 the Gazette of India , Part II , Section 3 , 
Sub - section ( ii ) , dated the 25th September, 1971 at 
page 4967 , in line 32 for " Rs. 15 ", Rcad " Rs. 155 ". 

[ No. 73 / 2 / 70 - P & D . ] 
V . SANKARALINGAM , Under Sccy . 


अनुसूची 
" क्या मैसर्स ज्योडेटिक कोल कम्पनी , प्रबन्धक ठेकेदार , 

ब्लाक संख्या 1, केदला कोलियरी, डाकघर केदला , 
जिला हजारीबाग द्वारा अपनी खानों में 21 जून , 
1972 में बिना मुआवजे के पाम जबरी छुट्टी की 
घोषणा करना और फिर 25 जून , 1972 से 
अपनी खानों की तालाबन्दी की घोषणा का किया 
जाना न्योयोचित था ? यदि नहीं तो इन प्रबन्धक 
ठेकेदारों द्वारा नियोजित कर्मकार किस अनुतोष 
के हकदार हैं ? " 


[ संख्या एल / 2012/ 74/ 72 - एल ०आर० - 2( i) ] 


( Department of Labour and Employment) 

ORDERS 
New Delhi, the 26th July 1972 
$ . 0 . 3302 . — Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the management of Messrs 
Geodetic Coal Company, Managing Contractors, Block 

No. 1 Kedla Colliery , Post Office Keda, District Haza 
ribagh , and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Cen 
tral Government hereby refers the said dispute for 
adjudication to the Central Government Industrial 
Tribunal ( No. 1 ) . Dhanbad, constituted under section 
7A of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the management of Messrs Geodetic 

Coal Company , Managing Contractors , Block 
No. 1 Kedla Collicry , Post Office Kedla , Dis 
trict Hazaribagh , was justified in declaring 
general lay off without compensation at their 
mines from the 21st June, 1972 and then lock 
out of their mines from the 25th June, 1972 ? 


S . 0 . 3303. - Whereas by an order of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Labour and Rehabilitation 
( Department of Labour and Employment ) No . L / 2012 / 
74 / 72 - LRIL, dated the 26th July, 1972, an Industrial dis. 
pute between the employers in relation to the inanage 

ment of Messrs Geodetic Coal Company , Managing 
Contractors, Block No. 1 Kedla Colliery , Post Office 
Kedla , District Hazaribagh and their workmen has 
bcen referred to the Industrial Tribunal ( No . 1 ) , 
Dhanbad, for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub -section ( 3 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Dis 
putes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government 
hereby prohibits the continuance of the lockout in the 
said establishment that is taking place , 


[ No. L / 2012 / 74 / 72 - DRII (ii).] 
KARNAIL SINGH, Under Secy . 


4580 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972/ ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II 


Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizo 
ram . " 


[ No. F . 28 ( 1) -I. T./ TM/ 72.] 


का० मा . 33 03. - - यतः भारत सरकार के श्रम और 
पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) के आदेश संख्या 
एल / 2012/ 74/ 72- एल०पार० - 2, तारीख 28 जुलाई, 1972 
द्वारा मैसर्स ज्योउंटिक कोल कम्पनी , प्रबन्धक ठेकेदार , ब्लॉक संख्या 
1, केदला कोलियरी, डाकषर केदला, जिला हजारीबाग के प्रबन्धक 
से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक प्रौद्योगिक 
विवाद, प्रौद्योगिक प्रधिकरण , ( संख्या 1), धनबाप को न्याय 
निर्णयन के लिए निर्दिष्ट किया गया है ; 


B. K . VERMA, Dy . Secy . 


प्रौद्योगिक विकास मंत्रालय 


( प्रान्तरिक व्यापार विभाग ) 


व्यापार चिह्न 


नई दिल्ली , 28 जुलाई, 1972 


अतः , अब, प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 
का 14 ) की धारा 10 की उप -धारा ( 3) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त स्थापना में उक्त विवाद 
के सम्बन्ध में हो रही तालाबन्दी के जारी रखने को एतद्द्वारा 
प्रतिषित करती है । 
[ संख्या एल/ 2012 / 74/ 72- एल०मार० 2(ii) ] 

फरनैल सिंह, अवर सचिव । 


का प्रा० 33 04. -- व्यापार और पण्य चिह्न अधिनियम , 
1958 ( 1958 का 43) की धारा 5 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व 
वाणिज्य और उद्योग मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना सं० का० प्रा० 2801, 
तारीख 25 नवम्बर , 1958 में निम्नलिखित और संशोधन करसी 
है, अर्थात्: --- 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT 


( Department of Internal Trade ) 


TRADE MARKS 


उक्त अधिसूचना में , दूसरे स्तम्भ में कलकत्ता स्थित 

व्यापार चिह्न रजिस्ट्री के कार्यालय से सम्बद्ध 
विद्यमान प्रविष्टि के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित 
प्रविष्टि प्रतिस्थापित की जाएगी, अर्थात् :-- 


New Delhi, the 28th July 1972 
s. o . 3304. --In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 6 of the Trade and Merchandise Marka Act, 
1958 (43 of 1958), the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendment to the notifi 
cation of the Government of India in the late Ministry 
of Commerce and Industry No . S. O . 2801 , dated the 
25th November, 1959, namely : -- 


" प्रासाम, बिहार , मनीपुर, मेघालय , नागालैण्ड , 
उड़ीसा , त्रिपुरा और पश्चिमी बंगाल राज्य 
तथा अन्दमान और निकोबार द्वीप समूह , 
अरुणाचल प्रदेश तथा मिजोराम के संघ 
राज्य क्षेत्र । " 


In the said notification , for the existing entry in 
the second column relating to the office of the Trade 
Marks Registry at Calcutta , the following entry shall 
be substituted, namely : 


[ सं० फा० 26 ( 1) - प्राई टी / टी एम / 72 ] 


" The States of Assam , Bihar, Manipur, Meghalaya , 

Nagaland, Orissa. Tripura and West Bengal 
and the Union Territories of Andaman and 


बी० के० बर्मा, उप सचिव । 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ Part II - 


4581 


( Indian Standards Institution ) 

New Delhi, the 8th August 1972 
S. O , 3305, - In pursuance of sub - regulations ( 2) and (3 ) of rogulation 3 of the Indian Stndards Institution ( Cortification 
Marka) Regulations , 1955 , as amended from time tu time, the Indian Standards Institution horoby notifies that the Jodian Standards , 
particulars , of which are mentioned in the Schodule given hereafter , have been established during the period 16 October to 31 
October , 1971 : 

THE SCHEDULE 


SI. 


No , and Title of the Indian Standard 

Established 


Briof Particulars 


No . 


No. and Title ofthe Indian 
Standard it any , superseded by 

tha naw Indian Standard 


- 


- ( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


I. IS : 283 – 1970 Specification for odlblo 

commonwalt ( Socond Ravision ) 


2. IS : 364 -- 1970 Specification for fanlight 

catch ( Socond Rovision ) 


(1) IS : 253 - 1964 Specification for This standard proycribes tho requirements 

odible cominon salt (rovised ) and the mothods of sampling and toat 
(ii) IS : 1845 - 1961 Specification for for edible common salt, free - flowing 

common salt for burtor and tabla salt and common selt for butter 
cheese industry 

and choose industry ( dairy salt ). 
(ii) IS : 20351961 Specification for (Price Rs. 8 . 00 ) 

freeflowing table salt 
IS : 364 – 1962 Specification for This standard lays down the requiremento 
fanlight catch (revised ) 

regarding material , dimensions, manu 
facture and finish of fanlight catches 
commonly used on ventilators in buildings . 

( Price Rs. 2 . 50 ) 
IS : 834 - 1967 Specification for This standard prescribes the requiremento 
cotton yarn , gray for hosiery , for gray cotton yorn of count range 89 to 808 

(74 to 7 tex ), used in hosiory . 
(Prico Rs. 2 . 50 ) 


3 . IS : 834 – 1970 Specification for cotton 

yarn gruy , for hosiery ( First Ravision ) 


4 . IS : 950 - 1970 Specification for water tonder IS : 950 - 1959 Specification for This standard lays down the requiro 
l ypo B , for brigade usa (Pirst Rovision ) water tender, typo B , for firo mants regarding material, dasign and 

brigada uso 

construction , workmanship and finish , 

accessories and equipment , and acceptanco 
tests of water tondertype B , for fire brigado 
uso . 
(Prico Rs. 8 . 00 ) 


S . IS : 1341 - 1970 Specification for stoel but 

hinges ( Second Rovision ) 


IS : 1341 – 1962 Specification for 
uteol but hinges (tavised ) 


Thię standard lays down the requirements 
regarding materials , dimensions 
manufacture and finish of cold 
rolled mild steel butt hinges 
(Price Rs. 4 .00 ) 


6 . IS : 1480 — 1970 Specification for metric IS :1480 1960 Specification for T hig standard prescribes the requirements 
scales tor general purpoyos ( Pirst Revision ) mctric scales for general purposes for rigid and foldable metrio scales, mado 

of wood or plastic materials , for general 
purposes, It covers , and measuring & 
well 48 edge measuring scalc8 . 
(Price Rs. 4 : 00 ) 


7 . IS : 1495 – 1970 Specification for mild stol IS : 1495- - 1959 Specifcation for This standard lays down the requirements 
dust - bins ( First Rovision ) 

mild stcel dust -biny 

fogarding materjal , size, shape and 
dimcnsions, manutature , workmanship 
end finish for mild steel dust -bing. 
(Price Rs. 5 . 00 ) 


8 . IS : 1538 – 1969 Speicfication for cast iron IS : 1583 - 1960 Specification for This standard covers the requircments for 

fittings for pressure pipes for water, gas cast iron fittings for pressure cast iron fitting for pressure pipes of 
and sewage ( First Revision ) 

pipes for water , gas and sewage water, gas and sewage . 

(Price Rs. 13 . 50 ) 
9 . IS : 1732- 1971 Dimensions for round and IS : 1732 — 1961 Dimensions for This standard specifies dimensions, sectional 

square steel bars for structural and general round and square steel bare for areas and weights of hotrolled round and 
engincering purposes ( First Revision ) structural and general enginee square gteel bars for structural and general 

ring purposes 

engincering purposes . 
(Price Rs. 2 . 00 ) 


IO , IS : 1896 — 1970 Specification for picking 

gticks for overpick cotton looms ( First 
Revision ) 


IS : 1896 - 1961 Specification for 
picking arms ( or sticks ) for over 
pick cotton looms 


This standard specifies the requircmnents 

of material, shape and dimentions work 
manship and finish , etc . for picking sticks 
for overpick cotton looms. 
Price Rs. 3 . 00 ) 


* For purposes of ISI Certification Marks scheme, IS : 1538 - 1960 shall run concurrently with IS : 1538 – 1969 up to 31 Octo 
ber , 1971. 


4582 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ Part II 


II . IS : 1978 - 1971 Specification for Line pip IS : 1978 - 1961 Specification for line This standard covers the requirements for 
(First Revision ) 

pipe 

thrực gres of seamless and welded , 
standard wciglit thrcaded pipe and plain 
enih steel pipes of standard weight, regular 
weight and extra strong, intended for use . 

in oil industry . 

(Price Rs. 9 : 50 ) 
12 . IS : 2924 - 1970 Specification for silicochromi- 1S : 2024- 1962 Specification for This ståndard Cover the requiriments for 
um (First Revision ) 

silicochromium 

thrce grades of silico - chromium commonly 

used in the iron and stcel industry , 

(Price Rs. 2 . 60 ) 
13 . IS : 2324 - 1969 Gauglog practice for ISO 

This standard deals with the gauging practice 
matric scrow threads 

of ISO metric screw thrcads of diamcter 

I mm and above. 
( Price Rs. II . 00 ) 


14 . IS : 2382 - 1970 Mounting dimensions of IS : 2382 - 1963 Recommended 
loudspeakers (First Revision ) 

mounting dimensions of loud 
speakers 


This standard lays down the mounting 

dimensions (size and disposition of fixing 
holes ) for cone type moving coil ( dynamic ) 
loudspea ,ers of direct radiator type having 

cones of circular and elliptical sections. 
( Price Rs. 2 . 00 ) 


te. IS : 2470 ( Part II) - 1971 Code of practice IS : 2470 (Part II )- 1964 Code of This standard lays down the recommen da 

for design and construction of seplic practice for design and cong . tions for the design , layout construction and 
tanks 

truction of scptic tanks Part maintenance of scptic tanks and includes 
Part II large installations ( First Revision ) II large installation 

mcthods of treatment and disposal of 

tank effluent of domestic sewage. 
(Price Rs. 5 00 ) 


16 . IS : 2619 - 1971 Specification 

bcakers ( First Revision ) 


for Glaga IS : 2619 - 1963 

glass beakers 


Speicification for 


This standard prescribes the requirement 
and the methods of sampling and test 

for glass beakers for laboratory use . 
(Price Rs. 250 ) 


ot 


for the determination of the liquid limit 
and plastic limit of soils . 
(Price Rs. 7 . 00 ) 


17 . IS : 2720 -(Part V )- 1970 Mcthods of test for IS : 2720 (Part 1 )- 1965 Methods 
soils 

of test for soils 
Part V determination of liquid and plastic Part V Determination of liquid 
limits 

and plastic limits 
( First Revision ) ] 
18 . IS : 3109 ( Part II) - 1970 Specification for IS : 3109 - 1965 Specification for 

round stcel links chain ( electric butt c lectrically welded steel chain , 
welded ), grade 40 

short, link and pitched or cali- 
Part II calibrated load chain for pulley brated grade 40 , for lifting 
blocks and other lifting appliances 

purposes 
(First Revision ) 


This standard covers the requirements for 

lighting chains, grade 40 , acciirately cali 
brated and polished for u8c ag load chains 
in pulley blocks . 
(Price Rs. 5 00 ) 


19 . IS : 4400 ( Part VIII) - 1970 Methods of 

measurements of semiconductor devices 
Part VIII voltage regulator and voltage 
reference diodes 


20 . IS : 5517 - 1969 Specification for stecls for 

hardening and tempering 


This standard covers methods of measure 
mente for semiconductor voltage regulato 
and voltage reference diodes for charac 
teristice covered by IS : 3700 (Part VIII) 

1970 . 
(Pricc Rs . 3 . 50 ) 
This standard covers the requirements for 
wrought pinalloyed and alloyed steels 
in the form of billets and bars for forging 
and for general engineering purposes 
intended to be usest in the hardened 
and tempered conditions. Requirements 
of steels intended for subsequent nitrid 

ing are also covered by this standard , 
(Price Rs. 7 . 50 ) 


21. IS : 5529 - (Part I) - 1969 Code of practice for 

in situ permcability tests Part I tests 
in overburden . 


There are a number of methods of deter 
mining field permeability in Overburden ; 
but this code includes only the 
methodementioncd below which are more 
commonly adopted for civil engineering 
purposes 
( 1) Pumping in Tests (Gravity Feed in 

Drill Holes or Bore Holes ) 
(a) Constant head method (cased well, 

open and test ) 


- - 


- - 


- 


S5c. 3 ( 1) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29, 1894 


4583 


(3 ) 


and 


(6 ) Falling head method (uncased well) 

( c) Slug method . 
( 2 ) Pumping out tests 

( a ) Unsteady state , 
(b ) Steady state , and 

( c ) Bailor method . 
(Price Rs. 10 : 00 ) 


22 . IS : 5554 - 1970 Specification for lock washers 

with lug . 


This standard prcscribes the requirements 

for lock washers with lng in the diamete 
range 3 to 100 mm . 2 
(Price Rs. 3 .00 ) 
This standard lays down dimensions for 
tonong and cro88- 8lots for tools with borc 
taper 1 :30 . ( Price Rs. 5 . 00 ) 


23 . IS : 5568 - 1970 Specification for tenons and 

crog8 - slots for tools with bore taper 1 :30 


24 . IS : 5169 - 1970 General plan of houndary 

dimensions for radial rolling bearings 


25 . IS : 5692 - 1970 Tolerances for radial rolling 

bearings 


This standard specifies the requirements for 

general plan of boundary dimensions 
which affect the interchangeability of 
radial ball and roller bearings . Dimen 
gions of snap rings and snap ringgrooves 

for bearings are also covered . 
(Price Rs. 8 . 50 ) 

This standard covers tolerances for radial 
ball and roller bearings with boundary 
dimensions conforming to IS : 5669 - 1970 
"General plan of boundary dimensions 

for radial rolling bearings , 
(Price Rs, 5 . 50 ) 
This standard prescribes the methods of test 

for thermal insulating ccmcnta . 
( Price Rs. 6 . 50) 


26 . IS : 5724 - 1970 Methods of test for thermal 

insulating cements 


27. IŞ : 5761- 1970 Specification for gold cyanide 

and gold potassium cyanide for 
electroplating . 


28 . 


IS : 5895 - 1970 Specification for ball point 
pen ink 


This standard prescribes the requircments 
and the methods of sampling and test 
for gold cyanide and gold potaysium 

cyanide for clectroplating . 
(Price Rs. 5 . 00 ) 

This standari prescribes the requirements 
and the methods of sampling and test 
for boll point pen ink used for filling 
cartridges of ball point pens . 
(Price Rs. 4 .00 ) 
This standard prescribes a method for the 

dotermination of cystallizing point int he 
range from about - 50 " to about 250°C 
(Price Rs. 2 . 50) 


29. IS : 5813 - 1979 Method for determination of 

crystallising point 


30 . IS : 5817 - 1970 Code of practice for prepara 

tion and use of lime pozzolana concrete in 
buildings and road 


This code covers the preparation and use of 

lime Pozzolana concrcte , using lime 
pozzolana mixture conforming to IS 
4098 - 1967 in building, road and runway 
construction works , such a levelling 
course in foundation , footing under 
masonry walls and columns, ordinary 
base concrete under fioor, filling haunches 
over masonry arch , roof Anjsh , fabrication 
of building blocks, road bases and bonded 

underjays . 
(Price Rs, 5 :00 ) 


31. IS : 5819 - 1970 Recommended short- circuit 

ratings of high yoltage PVC cables 


This standard coyers the recommended 
short - circuit ratings of high voltage heavy 
duty PVC cables conforming to IS : 1554 

(Part II ) - 1970 . 
(Price Rs, 5 00 ) 


32 . IS : 5840 (Part II )- 1970 Dimensions of 

Cathoder ay tubes 
Part II bases 


This standard lays down the dimension 

of bases used with cathode- ray tube: 
employed in Oscilloscopes , telcylgjon 

and radat. 
( Price Rs. 5 . 00 ) 


4584 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVÍNA 29, 1894 


[PART II 


Dimensions of 


33. IS : 5840 ( Part III)-1970 

cathode - ray tube8 . 
Part III EHT terminals 


This standardlaysdown the dimensions 

of EHT terminals for use with cathode- ray 
tubes employed in oscilloscopes, television 
and radar . 
( Price R9, 3 . 00 ) 


34 . IS : 5844 - 1970 Recommendations for 

hydrostatic stretch testing of compressed 
gas cylinders 


This standard describes methods for the 
hydrostatic stretch testing of cylinders 
intended for the storage and transport 
of compressed gases , Two methods, 
Damely , water jacket method and non 

jacket method , have been covered 
(Price Rs, 2 .00 ) 


35. JS : 5845- 1970 Code of pracrice for visual 

inspection of low prçosure gas cylinders 


This standard covers equipment for the 

mcasurement of various external and 
internal defects by visual inspection 
and the limiting criteria for the accep 
tance of low pressure gas cylinders on 
the basis of extent of defccts revealed 

by piqual inspection . 
(Price Rs. 2 . 50 ) 
This specification coyers materials , dimen 

sions finish and testing of coal cutting 
tools having radial, V -and FV - faced 
tungesten carbide tips which are held 
in too ] holders by either a set screw 
or a quick release mechanism located 

in the holder , 
( Price Rs. 4 . 00 ) 


36 . IS : 5854 - 1970 Specification for Coal cutting 

tools , radial y - and Fy - faced tungsten 
carbide tipped . 


37. IS : 5855- 1970 Specification for coal cutting 

tools , parrot- bcak . V - and FV - faced , tung 
sten carbide tipped 


This specification coyers materiale , di 
mensions and finish of parrot -beak , çoal 
cutting tools having V - end Fy faced 
tungsten carbide tips which are held 
in tool holders by either a set screw Or 

quick release mechanism contained 
in the tool holder , 
(Price Rs. 3 . 50 ) 


38. IS : 5856 - 1970 Specification for corrosion 

and hoat - resisting chromium -nickle steel 
golidng welding rods and bare electrodes 


This stondard prescribes the requirements 
of solid fller fods and bare clectrodes form 
welding corrosion and heat - resisting chro 
mium rickcl sreels by inert -gas tungsten 
are welding ( TIG ) or gas metal arc welding 
(MIG ) proce88, The chemical com 
position of Aller rods and wirco is also 

specified . 
( Price Rs, 4 . 00 ) 


39 . IS : 5858 (Part III ) - 1970 Specification for 

accessories to mechanical ventilation syg 

tems on board ships 
Part III control dapers 


This standard specifies the material and the 

dimensions for control dampers for use 
with mechanical ventilation systems on 
board ships . 
(Price Rs. 2 . 50 ) 


40 . IS : 5861- 1970 Specification for jams jellies 

and marmalades 


This standard prescribes the requiremento 
and the methods of samping and test 
for jamg, jcllies and marmalades . 
( Pri e 58 . 4 . 00 ) 


41. IS : 5863 (Part I) - 1970 Method for deter 

mination of malathion residues 
Part I cercols and oilseeds 


This standard describes the method for 
estimating regjdues ofmalathion ( S - ( 1 , 
2 - dicarbethoxyethyl) - 0 , 0 - dimethyl 
dithiophogphate ) residue as low as 
0 : 2 ppm . in foodgrajos, like wheat , 
tice , jowar, pusę , oj] gecds, etc . 
(Price Rs. 2 : 50 ) 


42 . IS : $ 866 - 1970 Specification for chrome 

lcather for high altitude gloves 


This standard prescribes the requirements 
method of sampling and test for ful 
chrome gloving leather , with waterproof 
treatment and is intended for the manu 

facture of high altitude gloves. 
( Price Rs. 3 . 50 ) 


$ 5c . 3 (i ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 


(3) 


43. IS : 5868- 1969 Method of sampling for Superseding Sampling proce- This standard prescribes the methods of 
leather 

dures in : 

sampling for non - fabricated leather in 
(i) IS : 582 - 1954 Methods of the form of whole hides or skins, sides 

sampling and test for vege - butts, bends, bel lies or shoulders. 
table and chrome tanned ( Price Rs. 5 . 00 ) 

leathers . 
( ii) IS : 10 IF - 1956 Methods of 

sampling and test for oil samp 
ling and test for oil tanned 
leathers. 


44. 


IS : 5875 - 1970 Spec fication for open -deck 

scuppers 


This standard specifies the material and 
dimensions for open - deck scuppers used 
for drainage on board ships . 
(Price Rs. 2 . 50 ) 


45. 


IS : 5876 - 1970 

scuppers 


Specification 


for hopper 


- 


This standard specifies the material ard 
dimensions for hopper scufpers used 
for drainage on board ships, 
(Price Rs. 2 . 00 ) 


46 . 


IS : 5878 (Part II /Sec. I )- 1970 Code of Practice 

for construction of tunnels Part II under 
ground excavation in rock Section I 
drilling and blasting 


This standard deals with drilling ard 
blasting for underground excavation of 

tunnels in rock . 
(Price Rs. 7 . 00 ) 


47 . IS : 5903 - 1970 Recommendation for safety 

devices for gas cylinders 


This standard covers requirements for the 
design , construction . testing and certi 

fication of safety devices for gas cylinder 
( Price Rs. 6 . 50 ) 


48. * IS : 5907 - 1970 Specification for socket 

reamers with morse taper shanks 


IS : 1836 - 1961 Specifica ion 
for reamers 


This standard lays down the dimension 

and requirements for socket reamers 

with morse taper shanks. 
( Price Rs 3 . 00 ) 


49. 


IS : 5915 - 1970 Specification for single 

texture rubberized wiaterproof fabrics , 


This standard prescribes the requirements 

and methods of test for single texture 
rubberized waterproof fabrics for general 
purposes , and for making acid and alkali 

resistant aprons , 
( Price Rs. 7 . 50 ) 


5o . * IS : 5918 - 1970 Specification for taper pin IS : 1836 . 1961 Specification for This standard lays down the dimensions 
machine reamers 

reamers 

and requirements for machine reamers 
for taper pins conforming to IS : 2393 
1963 Specification for cylindrical and 

taper pins . . 
( Price Rs. 3 . 00 ) 


51. * IS : 5919 - 1970 Specification for machine 

bridge reamers 


This standard lays down the dimensions 
and requirements for machine bridge 
reamers . 
(Price Rs. 3 .00 ) 


52. * IS : 5926 - 1970 Specification for shell 

reamers 


This standard lays down the dimensions 

and requirements for shell reamers with 
taper bore and crossslot -drive . 
(Price Rs, 3 . 00 ) 


53 IS : 5927 - 1970 Specification for reduction 

sleeves 7 /24 tapers to mores tapers 


This standard lays down the dimensions 

and requirements for reduction sleeves 
7 /24 tapers to morse tapers for tools 
with tang and shanks Type A and tapped 

end shanks Type B . 
(Price Rs. 3 . 00 ) 


54 


IS : 5928 - 1970 Specification for tangent 

clinometer 


-- 


This standard deals with the requirements 

of tangent clinometers . 
( Price Rs. 2 . 50 ) 


TE 


* F ) : 7102030s of ISL Cartification Marking Scheme. IS 5907 - 1970 , IS : 5918- 1970 IS : 5919 - 70 and IS , 5926 - 1970 shall 
come into forc with effect from ist February , 1972 and shall run concurrently with ļS 1836 - 1961 upto 31st December 1972 , 


4586 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II 


- 7 Lu 


(4 ) 


55 IS : 5950 - 1971 Specification for shot firing 

cables 


This standard covers dimensionsal end 

performance requirements and methods 
of test for shot firing cables of the follow 

ing types : 
(a ) Twin cables for single -shot firigng , 

and 
(b ) Single- core and twin cable for multi 

sbot firing. 
( Price Rs. 3 : 50 ) 


56 


IS : 5951- 1970 Methods for determination 

of colour fastness of textile materials to 
weathering by outdoor exposure 


This standard prescribes two methods for 

determination of colour fastness of textile 
matcrlale of all kinds (cotton , wool, silk , 
etc .) to the action of weathering by out 

door expoAure . 
(Prce Rs. 3 . 50 ) 


57 


IS : 5955- 1970 Specification for tamarind 

concentrate 


This standard prescribes the requirments 

and the methods of sampling and test 

for tamarind concentrate , 
(Price Rs. 2 , 50 ) 


58 IŞ : 5963 - 1971 Specification for knoc joint 

without luck for steel orthopacdic calipers 


This standard lays down the dimensional 
and other requirements for knee joint 
without lock for steel orthopaedic 

calipers . 
(Price R8, 3 : 00 ) 


59 IS : 5964- 1971 Specification for round spur 

for orthopaedic callpers 


This standard lays down the dimensional 
and other requirements of sound spurt 

for orthopacidc calipers . 
(Price Rs. 3 . 00 ) 


60 IŞ : 5965- 1970 Specification for frame, 

rubber dam , dental 


This standard lays down the dimensions 
and other requirements for rubber don 
frame used in holding ruber dam in 
position after ligatures and tooth clamps 

have been adjusted . 
(Price Rs. 3 . 00 ) 


61 IS : 5974 - 1970 Specification for devans and 

easy chairs 


This standard refers to domestic furniture 
and lays down requirements of materials 
and fixes the functional dimensions of 
divans and easy charis with and without 
arm rehts . 
( Price Rs. 250 ) 


62 


IS : 5978 - 1970 Code of practice for design 

of wooit poles for overhead power and 
telecommunication lines 


Superscdcs design aspect given 

in Appendix E of IS : 876 - 1961 


This standard covers method of design of 
wood poles made of both broad -leaved 
and conjferous species of timber , 
grown in India suitable for carrying 
overhead electric power transmission lines , 
telephone and telegraph circuits both 

for solid and jointed wood poles. 
(Price Rs. 4 00 ) 


63. IS : 5980- 1970 


Specification for bench 


centros 


This standard lays down the requirements 

of bench centres used for checking 
of run out, concentricity , etc , with 

heights of centres 125, 160 and 200 mm . 
( Price Rs. 5 00 ) 


24. : 59 ) 3 - 1970 Specification for Alumini 

zoi steel wire for lelegraph ani telephone 
purposes 


This standard covers the requirements for 
round aluminized steel wire , suitable 
for use as : 
(a ) telegraph and telephone line wires, 

and 
(6 ) binding and jointing wires for telegraph 

and telephone wires. 
(Price Rs. 3 . 50 ) 


Specification for cotton 


65. IS : 5996 - 1970 

belting ducks 


This standard prescribes requirements of 

cotton ducks used in the manufacture of 

conveyor, elevator and transmission belts . 
( Price Rs. 3 . 00 ) 


-- -- - - - - - - 


- -- - - --- 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4587 


(2 ) 


66 . IS : 6908 - 1971 Specification for single op 

erator ac /dc arc welding power source 


67. IS : 6009 - 1970 Method for evaluation of 

results of accelerated corrosion teste 


This standard lays down the requirements 
and tests for single operator ac /dc arc 
welding power source incorporating solid 
state rectifiers and having drooping char 

acteristics . 
(Price Rs. 5 . 00 ) 
This standard specifies a rating system 
that provides a means of defining levels 
of performance of coatings, other than 
those anodic to the basis metal, that have 
been subjected to accelerated corrosion 
tests . This method takes into account 

only corrosion of the basis metal. 
(Price Rs . 200 ) 


photographic processing in spectrochemi 
cal analysis 


This standard recompende practices that 
are generally followed for the processing 
of photographic plates and films 
used in spectrochemical analysig. 
(Price Rs. 4 . 00 ) 
This standard covers the requirements 

for welded and scamlcss carbon steel 
tubes for use on board ships for working 

pressure above 17 . 5 kgf ./ cm2. 
(Price Rs. 3 50 ) 


69. IS : 611 - 1970 Specification for carbon 

steel tubes for use on board ships for 
presogte gervices 


70 . IS : 6012 - 1970 Method for mcasurement 

of coating thickness by eddy current 


This standard coyers the use of eddy current 

instruments for the non - destructiva 
measurement of the thickness of a non 
conductive coating on a non -magnetic 
başiş metal. 
(Price Rs. 2 . 5a ) 


71 . IS : 5914- 1979 Specification for cmilsifiable 

laryicilal oil, pyrethrim based 


This standard prescribes the requirements 

and the methods of tests for the emul 
sifiable larvicidal oil, pyretorum based 
intended for se uas a larvicide for mos 
quito abatement and control in breeding 
places like lakes, pools and other stagiant 

waters , marshes , etc . 
( Price Rs. 7 . 50 ) 


72 


I $ : 6319 - 1971 Spacification for platinum 

digh 


73 


IS :6021- 1971 Spscification for web - equip 

mont and 6 . 6 -mm eyclots , paintad rim 
with or without washor 


74 


IS : 6023 - 1970 

shoyol 


Spocification for roversiblo 


75 


IS : 6028 - 1971 Guide for storing 

transporting grocn bananas 


and 


This standard covers the roquirements foz 

purity , finish , design , capacity , dimensions 
and weight of platinum dishes ( 10 to 700 
ml ) used in labouratories. 

(Price Rs. 1 . 50 ) 
This standard lays down the dimensions and 
rcquirmonts for web - cquipment and 6 . 6 -mm 

eyclots , painted rim with or without 
Washer , 

(Price Rs. 5 . 00 ) 
This standard specifics the material and 
dimensions of the reversible shovel to ensure 

interchangeability . 

( Price Rs. 3 . 50 ) 
This guilo describes confitions for the suc 

cag ful keeping , with or without airtcle 
cooling of green bananas , Musa sp , in the 
preclimacteric phase during storago 
before transport from the placo of pro 
duction to the place of consumption and 
duringmaritimo transport. 

(Price Rs, 2 : 50 ) 
This standard prescriboy tho requirement 
and the methods of test for godium pro - 

pionate . 
( Price Rs. 3 . 50 ) 
This standard prescribes the requirements 

and mothods of sampling and test for frosh 
mackerol( Rastrelliger sp .) 
( Price Rs. 2 : 50 ) 


76 


IS : 6030 - 1971 Spocification 

propionate ) food grade 


for sodium 


77 


IS :6032 - 1971 Specification for mackerel 

fresh 


4588 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ Part II — 


(2 ) 


(4 ) 


78 . IS : 6034 - 1971 Specification for edge typo 

vacuum Alters 


This standard prescribes the rated Output 
and other requirements of the edgc - typo 
vacuum filters used for the purifica 
tion and drying of ttranormer and 
switch oils keeping in viow extreme vari 

ation of clinzato conditions and altitudo all 
Over Indian 
(Price Rs.2 . 50 ) 


79 . IS 6035 - 1970 Spocification for zinc phos 

phate dental cement . 


This gtandard prescribes the roquirements 

and tho mothods of sampling and test for 
zinc phosphato cement, 
(Price Rs. 5 . 50 ) 


80, IS : 6036 - 1970 Specification for alginate 

dontal impression material, 


This standard prescribes the requirement 

and the methods of sampling and test for 
dental impression material in powder 
from containing an alginate as the gel 
forming ingredient . 
(Price Rs. 5 : 00 ) 


81. IS : 6044 (Part I) — 1971 Code of practice 

for liquefied potroleum gas cylinder 
installations Part I commercial and 
industrial installations, 


This standard lays down the code of 
practice for thcinst allationof LPG clinders 

vapour withdrawal only ) , piping and 
equipment in commercial and industrial 
ipremises , 
(Price Rs. 4 . 00 ) 


82 . IS : 6047- 1970 Specification for scouring 

powdors , 


This standard prescribes the requiremen 

and the methods of sampling and test fo 
scouring powders , 
(Price Rs. 2 : 50) 


83 , IS : 6051- 1970 Code for designation of 

aluminium and its alloys, 


Thia codo prescribes method for designatin 

aluminium and its alloys , namely ,wou 
aluminium alloys, alumini m ( un - alloyed 
casting alloys , castings ( un - alloyed ), an 
primary ingots . 
( Price Rs. 3 . 50 ) 


84 . IS : 6068 - 1970 Nomenclature of spinning 

machinery (proparatory to doubling ) 
cotton gygtom . 


This standard covers nomenclaturo of spin 
ning machinery (preparatory to do ubling 

- cotton system , 
(Prico Rs. 3 .00 ) 


85 . IS : 6076 - 1971 Dimonsions for vacuum 

flanges. I 


This standard specifiog the dimensions for 

flanges and collars used invacuum techno 


logy 


(Price Rs. 4 . 00 ) 


86 . IS : 6095- 1971 Specification for cans for 

35 mm motion picture films. 


This standard lays down tho dimensions 

and othor requrements for cang ubod 
storageandtransitof35mmmotion pictura 
films of 300 and 600 mm capacity . 
(Prico Rs. 3 . 00 ) 


87. IS : 6097- 1971 Dimensions for corcs for 

motion picturo and magnotic films. 


This standard lays down thc dimensions of 

cores for the winding , storago and trang 
port ofmotion picturo film , and perforatod 
film with magnetic coating or striping of 
16 , 35 , 65 and 70 mm width . 
(Prico Rs. 3 . 00 ) 


88. IS 6099 -1971 Specification for invalid wal 


kers 


This standard lays down the dimontiona 
and other requirements for invalid walkorg . 

(Price Rs. 5 . 00 ) 


Copicsof these Indian Standards are available forisale with the Indian Standards Institution , Manak Bhavan , 9 Bahadur Shah 
Zafar Marg , Now Dulhi- I and alavity branch Oficus at (i) 543 Salar Vallabhai PatelRoad, Bombay - 1 , (li) 5 . Chowringhee Approach 
Road , Calcutta - 13 ( iii ) 54 Guncral Paltors 20ad , Madras - 2 ( iv ) 117 /418 B , Şaryodaya Nagar, Kanpur, (v ) 5 - 9 - 201/ 2 , Chirag Ali Lano 
Hyderabad - I, ( vi) Sadhna , Nurmohamud Shaikh Marg , Kanpur, Ahlmadabad - I and (vii) F Block , Unity Bldg, Narasimbaraja Squaru 
Bangalore - 2 . 

[No . CMD / 13 -2 ] 


SEC. 3 ( i ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4589 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


( भारतीय मानक संस्था ) 

नई दिल्ली, 8 अगस्त, 1972 
एम • प्रो 0 33 05. — समय - समय पर संशोधित भारतीय मानक संस्था ( प्रमाणन चिह्न ) विनियम 1955 के विनियम 3 के उप 
विनियम ( 2 ) और ( 3 ) के अनुसार भारतीय मानक संस्था द्वारा अधिसूचित किया जाता है कि नीचे अनुसूची में जिन भारतीय मानकों 
के ब्यौरे दिए गए हैं, निर्धारित किए गए हैं : 


अनुसूची 


संक्षिप्त विवरण 


क्रमांक निर्धारित भारतीय मानक की पदसंख्या और नए भारतीय मानक द्वारा रद्द हुए 
शीर्षक 

भारतीय मानक यदि हों , की पदसंख्या 
और शीर्षक 


( 1) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


1 IS : 253 -1970 खाने के साधारण नमक ( 1) IS : 253- 1964 खाने के इस मानक में मक्खन और पनीर उद्योग में 
की विशिष्टि 

साधारण नमक की विशिष्टि उपयोग के लिए साधारण खाने के नमक , 
( पुनरीक्षित 

खाने के पिसे नमक और साधारण नमक 
( 2 ) IS : 1845 - 1961 मक्खन (डेरी नमक ) के विषय में अपेक्षाएं सथा 

और पनीर उद्योग के लिए साधा वानगी लेने और परीक्षण की पद्धतियां 
रण नमक की विशिष्टि 

निर्धारित की गई हैं । 
( 3 ) IS : 2035 -1961 खाने के ( मूल्य रु08. 00 ) 

लिए पिसे नमक की विशिष्टि 


2 


IS : 364 - 1970 रोशनदानों ( फैनलाइट ) IS : 364 - 1962 रोशनदानों 

के खटकों की विशिष्टि ( दूसरा पुनरी - ( फनलाइट ) के खटकों की वि - 
क्षण ) 

शिष्टि ( पुनरीक्षित ) 


इस मानक में इमारतों में रोशनदानों में 
प्रयोग के लिए ( फैनलाइट ) खटकों से 
सम्बन्धित सामग्री , माप, उत्पादन और 
फिनिश के विषय में अपेक्षाएं दी गई हैं । 
( मूल्य 102. 50 ) 


3 


IS : 834 - 1970 होजरी के लिए खुदरंग IS : 834 - 1967 होजरी के लिए 
___ धाग की विशिष्टि (पहला पुनरीक्षण ) खुदरंग सूती धागे की विशिष्टि 


इस मानक में होजरी उद्योग में उपयोग के 
लिए 8 से 80 काउंट ( 74 से 7 टेक्स ) 
सफ के खुदरंग सूती धागों के विषय में 
अपेक्षाएं निर्धारित की गई हैं । 
( मूल्य रु ० 2. 50 ) 


4 


IS : 950 - 1970 दमकलों में उपयोग के IS : 950 - 1959 दमकलों में उपयोग इस मानक में दमकलों में उपयोग के लिए 
लिए पानी के टन्डर टाइप बी की विशिष्टि के लिए पानी के टेण्डर , टाइप बी । पानी के टेण्डर टाइप बी में लगने वाली 
(पहला पुनरीक्षण ) 

सामग्री , डिजाइन तथा निर्माण, कारीगरी 

और फिनिश, साज सामान और स्वीकृत 
परीक्षणों के विषय में अपेक्षाएं दी गई हैं । 
( मूल्य रु० 8. 00 ) 


5 


IS : 1341 - 1970 इस्पात के टक्कर वाले IS : 1341 - 1962 इस्पात के 
कब्जे ( दूसरा पुनरीक्षण ) 

टक्कर वाले कब्जे ( पुनरीक्षित ) 


इस मानक में शीत बेल्लित मदु इस्पात के 
टक्कर वाले कब्जों के बारे में सामग्री , 
माप, उत्पादन तथा फिनिश के विषय में 
अपेक्षाएं दी गई हैं । 
( मूल्य २० 4. 00 ) 


4590 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[PART 11 


( 1) 


( 2 ) 

( 3) 

- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - -- 
6 IS : 1480 - 1970 सामान्य कार्यों के IS : 1480 - 1960 सामान्य कार्यों इस मानक में सामान्य कार्यों के लिए लकड़ी 

लिए मीटरी पैमानों की विशिष्टि ( पहला के लिए मीटरी पैमानों की विशिष्टि अथवा नम्य सामग्री के बने न माने वाले 
पुनरीक्षण ) 

और मुड़ने वाले मीटरी पैमानों के विषय 
में अपेक्षाऐं निर्धारित की गई हैं । इस 
मानक में छोर से मापने वाले तथा किनारे 
से मापने वाले पैमाने लिए गए हैं । 

( मूल्य रू . 4 . 00 ) 
7 IS : 1495 - 1970 मद् इस्पात के कड़े - IS : 1495 - 1959 मखु इस्पात के इस मानक में मृत् इस्पात के कूडदानों के 
दानों की विशिष्टि ( पहला पुनरीक्षण ) कूड़ेदानों की विशिष्टि 

बारे में सामग्री , साइज , शक्ल तथा माप , 
उत्पादन , कारीगरी और फिनिश के 
विषय में अपेक्षाएं दी गई हैं । 

( मूल्य रु 0 5 . 00 ) 
४ *IS : 15 38 - 1969 जल , गंस तथा मल IS : 1538 - 1960 जल , गैस तथा इस मानक में जल , गैस और मल निकास 

निकास के लिए ढलवां लोहे के दाब पाइपों मल -निकास के ढलवां लोहे के में ढलवां लोहे के दाम पाइपों के 
की फिटिंग की विशिष्टि ( पहला पुनरीक्षण ) पाइपों के फिटिंग की विशिष्टि विषय में अपेक्षाएं निर्धारित की 


( मूल्य २० 13. 50 ) 


9 


IS : 1732 - 1971 संरचना तथा सामान्य IS : 1732 - 1961 संरचना तथा इस मानक में सामान्य इंजीनियरी 

इंजीनियरी कार्यों के लिए गोल तथा चौकोर सामान्य इंजीनियरी कार्यों के लिए तथा संरचना इंजीनियरी कार्यों 
इस्पात की सरिया के माप ( पहला पुन गोल तथा चौकोर इस्पात की सरिया के लिए सेक्शनल तथा गर्म बेल्लित 

के माप 

गोल तथा चौकोर इस्पात की सरिया 
की माप निर्धारित किए गए हैं । 
( मूल्य रु० 2 . 00 ) 


रीक्षण ) 


10 IS : 1896 - 1970 प्रोवरपिक सूती करषों IS : 1896 - 1961 प्रोवर पिक सूती इस मानक में प्रोवरपिक सूती करघों के 
के लिए पिकिंग स्टिक ( पहला पुनरीक्षण ) करषों के लिए पिकिंग प्रार्म ( या लिए पिकिंग स्टिक के विषय में 

स्टिक ) की विशिष्टि 

लगने वाली सामग्री, प्राकृति और 
माप, कारीगरी तथा फिनिश आदि 
के विषय में अपेक्षाएं निर्धारित 
की गई हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 3 . 00 ) 
11 IS : 1978 - 1971 लाइन पाइपों की विशिष्टि IS : 1978 - 19 61 लाइन पाइपों इस मानक तेल उद्योग में 
(पहला पुनरीक्षण ) 

की विशिष्ट्रि 

प्रयुक्त मानक भार, नियंविस 
भार भौर अति मजबूत तीन ग्रेडों 
के इस्पात के पाइपों के बारे में 
अपेक्षाएं दी गयी हैं । ये पाइप 
सीवनरहित और बेल्डकृत , मानक 
भार के चड़ीदार और सादे सिरों 
वाले होते हैं । 
( मूल्य रु० 9 . 30 ) 


* भारतीय मानक संस्था ( प्रमाणन चिन्ह ) योजना के लिए IS : 1538- 1960 31 अक्तूबर 1971 तक IS : 15 38 -1969 
के साथ- साथ लाग रहेगा । 


SEC. 3 (ii ) ? 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 


4591 


( 1 ) 


( 2) 


( 3 ) 


- -- - - - 


- -- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - 


विशिष्टि (पहला एनिक्षिणोकोमियम की 


12 IS : 2024 - 1970 सिलिको - क्रोमियम की IS : 2024 - 1962 सिलिको -क्रोमियम इस मानक में साधारणतया लोहे और 
विशिष्टि ( पहला पुनरीक्षण ) 

की विशिष्टि 

इस्पात उद्योग में तीन ग्रेडों में 
के भिलिको-कोनियम के विषय में 
अपेक्षाएं निर्धारित की गई हैं । 
( मूल्य रु० 2 . 00 ) 


13 


IS : 2324 - 1969 आई एस प्रो मीटरी चूड़ियों 

की मापन पद्धति 


इस मानक में 1 मिमी और इससे ऊपर 

के व्यास वाली प्राई एस प्रो मीटरी 
चड़ियों के विषय में मापन पद्धतियां 

दी गई हैं । 
( मूल्य रु . 11 . 00 ) 


14 IS : 2382-- 1970 लाउडस्पीकर लगाने सम्बन्धी IS : 2382 - 1963 लाउडस्पीकर इस मानक में गोल और अंडाकार 
माप ( पहला पुनरीक्षण ) 

लगाने की सिफारिशी माप __ शंकु लगे डायरेक्ट रेडियटेर वाले 

लाउडस्पीकर लगाने सम्बन्धी माप 
( साइज और लगाने के छेदों के 
प्रकार )निर्धारित किए गए हैं । 
ये लाउडस्पीकर शंकु टाइप और 
चल कायल वाले होते हैं । 
( मूल्य रु० 2 . 00 ) 


15 


IS : 2470 ( भाग 2 ) - 1971 चह - बच्चे IS : 2470 ( भाग 2) -- 1964 चह - इस मानक में घह-बच्चे ( सेप्टिक 
( मेप्टिक टैक) की डिजाइन और निर्माण बच्चे ( मेप्टिक टैक ) को डिजाइन टैकों ) की डिजाइन और निर्माण 
की रीति संहिता भाग 2 बड़े संस्थापन ( पहला और निर्माण की रीति संहिता : रखरखाव सम्बन्धी सिफारिश 
पुनरीक्षण ) 

भाग 2 बड़े संस्थापन 

दी गई हैं । इसके अतिरिक्त 
इन चह -बच्चों में घरेलू गंदगी के 
उपचार और उसके निपटान की भी 
व्यवस्था की गई हैं । 
( मूल्य रु० 5 . 00 ) 


16 


IS : 2619 - 1971 कांच के बीकरों की वि - IS : 2619 - 1963 कांच के बीकरों इस मानक में प्रयोगशाला में उपयोग 
शिष्टि ( पहला पुनरीक्षण ) 

की विशिष्टि 

के लिये कांच के बीकरों से सम्बंधित 
अपेक्षाएं और बानगी लेने तथा 
परीक्षण की पद्धतियां निर्धारित 

की गई हैं । 
( मूल्य २० 2 . 50 ) 


17 IS : 2720 (भाग ) 5 - 1970 मृतिकानों 

की परीक्षण पद्धतियों : भाग 5 द्रव और 
नम्यता की सीमाओं का भाग निर्धारण 
( पहला पुनरीक्षण ) 


IS : 2720 ( भाग 5 ) - 1965 
मतिकाओं की परीक्षण पद्धतियां : 
5 द्रव और नम्यता क सीमाओं 
का निर्धारण 


इस मानक में द्रव और नम्यता की 

सीमाओं के निर्धारण सम्बन्धी 
परीक्षण पद्धतियां दी गई हैं । 
( मूल्य रू . 7 . 00 ) 


4592 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


18 


IS: 3109( भाग 2 ) - 1970 इस्पात IS: 3109 ( भाग 2 ) - 1965 उठाने के इस मानक में 40 ग्रेड वाली गिरीब्लाक तथा 
की गोल छोटी कड़ी वाली चेन कार्यों के लिए इस्पात की गोल छोटी अन्य माधनों के लिए सही सहो अंशशोधित 
(बिजली द्वारा बट बेल्डकृत ) ग्रेड 40 कड़ी वाली बिजली द्वारा वेल्डकृत अंश- भारवाही चेनों के बारे में अपेक्षाऐं दी गई हैं । 
की विशिष्टि , भाग 2 गिरीब्लाक तथा शोधित अथवा अंतरशोधित ( पिण्ड ) चेन ( मूल्य रू . 5 . 00 ) 
उठाने के अन्य साधनों के लिए अंश ( बिजली द्वारा वेल्डकृत ) ग्रेड 40 , 
शोधित भारवाही चेनों की विशिष्टि की विशिष्टि 


19 


IS: 4400 ( भाग 8 ) -- 1970 एक 
दिशचालक साधनों पर मापन पद्धतियां 
भाग 8 वोल्टता रेग्यूलेटर और वोल्टता 
संदर्भ डाइनोड 


इस मानक में IS : 3700 ( भाग 8 ) - 1970 में 
दिए गए एकदिश चालक वोल्टता रेग्यूलेटर और 
वोल्टता के संदर्भ डाइप्रोड के लक्षणों के मापों 
को लिया गया है । 


20 


IS: 5517 - 1969 कठोरीकरण और 
टेम्पर देने के लिए इस्पात की विशिष्टि 


इम मानक में कठोरीकृत और टेम्पर दी गई 
स्थितियों में काम देने वाली इस्पातों को गढ़ाई तथा 
सामान्य इंजीनियरी कार्यों के लिए बिलेट और 
सरिया के रुप में लिया गया है । इस मानक में बाद 
में इस्पातों के नाइट्राइडीकरण सम्बन्धी अपेक्षाएं 
भी दी गई हैं । 
( मूल्य रु . 7 . 00 ) 


IS : 55 29 ( भाग 1 ) - 1969 मौके पर 
प्रवेश्यता परीक्षण की रीति संहिता , 
भाग 1 अतिभार की स्थिति में परीक्षण 


की अनेक पद्धतियां हैं लेकिन इस संहिता में केवल 
निम्नलिखित पद्धतियां दी गई हैं जो सिविल 
इंजीनियरी कार्यों के लिए सामान्य रूप से अपनाई 
जाती हैं । 
( 1 ) पम्प से पानी भरने सम्बन्धी परीक्षण (ड्रिल 
किए गए अथवा खोदे गए छेदों में गुरुत्वाकर्षण 
द्वारा भराव ) 


( क ) स्थिर स्तम्भ वाली पद्धति ( केस लगा कुप्रां , 
खुले सिरे वाला परीक्षण ) 
( ख ) घटते स्तम्भ वाली पद्धति (बिना केस 
धाला कुआं, ) और 


( 2 ) पम्प से पानी उलीचने सम्बन्धी परीक्षण 
( क ) अस्थिर स्थिति 
( ख ) स्थिर स्थिति 
( ग ) उलीचने की पद्धति 
( मूल्य रु० 10 . 00 ) 


22 


IS : 5554 - 1970 लगदार तालक वाशर 
की विशिष्टि 


इस मानक में 3मिमी से 100मिमी तक के व्यास 
घाले लगदार तालक वाशरों से सम्बन्धित 
अपेक्षाएं दी गई हैं । 


SEC. 3 ( i ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4593 


- 


- 


( 1) 


( 2) 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


23 


IS: 5568 - 1970 छेद- गावदुम 1: 30 
याले औजारों की चूलों और पार खांचों 
की विशिष्टि 


इस मानक में छेद - गावदुम 1: 30 वाले औजारों 
की चूलों और पारखांचों के माप दिए गए हैं । 
( मूल्य १० 5 . 00 ) 


24 


IS: 5669 - 1970 अरीय रोलिंग 
बयरिंगों के सीमांत मापों का सामान्य 
विन्यास 


इस मानक में सीमान्त मापों के सामान्य विन्यास 
सम्बन्धी अपेक्षाएं दी गई हैं । इन मापों से भरीय 
बाल और रोलर बयरिंगों की अविनिमयता 
पर प्रभाव पड़ता है । इसमें बयरिंगों के स्नप 
रिंग और स्नैप रिंग के खांचों के माप भी दिए गए 


( मूल्य रु . 8 . 50 ) 


25 


IS: 5692 - 1970 अरीय रोलिंग 
बयरिंगों सम्बन्धी छुटे 


इस मानक में IS: 5669 - 1970 अरीय रोलिंग 
बरिंगों के सीमांत मापों का सामान्य विन्यास के 
अनुरुप सीमान्त मापों वाले परीय बाल और रोलर 
बरिगों के सम्बन्ध में छुटें निर्धारित की गई है । 
( मुल्य रु . 5 . 50 ) 


26 


IS : 5724 - 1790 तापरोधी सीमेंट की 
परीक्षण पद्धतियां 


इस मानक में तापरोधी सीमेंट के विषय में परीक्षण 
पद्धतियां निर्धारित की गई हैं । 
( मूल्य २० 6 . 50 ) 


IS : 5761 - 1970 बिजली द्वारा पानी 
चढ़ाने के लिए स्वर्ण - सायनाइड और 
स्वर्ण -पोटैशियम सायनाइड की विशिष्टि 


इस मानक में बिजली द्वारा पानी चढ़ाने के कार्य के 
लिए स्वर्ण सायनाइड और स्वर्ण पोटैशियम साय 
नाइड की बानगी लेने तथा परीक्षण की पद्धतियां 

और अपेक्षाएं निर्धारित की गई हैं । 
( मूल्य २० 5 . 00 ) 


28 IS : 5805- 1970 बाल - प्वाइंट पेन की स्याही 

की विशिष्टि 


इस मानक में बाल प्वाइंट पेन की नलियों में भरने 
के काम आने वाली स्याही से सम्बन्धित अपेक्षाएं 
और बानगी लेने तथा परीक्षण की पद्धतियां 
निर्धारित की गई हैं । 


29 IS: 5813- 1970 क्रिस्टलकारी अंक 

निकालने की पति 


इस मानक में लगभग - 50° सें० ० से लगभग 
250° से ग्रे के बीच क्रिस्टलकारी अंक ज्ञात 


( मूल्य रु० 2 . 50 ) 


30 


IS: 5817 - 1970 इमारतों और सड़कों 
के लिए चुना पोत्सोलाना कंक्रीट तैयार 
करने तथा उपयोग की रीति संहिता 


इस संहिता में IS : 4098 - 1967 के अनुरूप 
चूना पोत्सोलाना मिश्रण का उपयोग करके इमारतों , 
सड़कों और जहाजो के दौड़ मार्ग के निर्माण - कार्यो 
के लिए चूना पोत्सोलाना कंक्रीट तैयार करने 
तथा उसके उपयोग की रीतियों को लिया गया है । 
इम निर्माण कार्य के अधीन नीवों में समतलकारी 
रहे देना , चिनाई वाली दीवारों और खम्भों 


4594 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART 11 --- 


- 


(1 ) 


( 2) 


( 3) 


का प्राधार तैयार करना , फर्श के नीचे साधारण 
आधार कंक्रीट देना , चिनाई के मेहरावों के ऊपर 
पुट्ठों की भराई देना , छत की फिनिश , इमारतों में 
लगने वाले चौकों को गाई, सड़क के लिए कंकड़ 
पत्थर की सतह देना , इत्यादि कार्य प्राते हैं । 
( मूल्य ९० 5 . 00 ) 


31 . IS: 5819 - 1970 उच्च वोल्टता पी वी सी 

केबलों की सिफारिशों शार्ट - सर्किट 


रेटिंग 


इस मानक में IS : 155 4 ( भाग 2 ) - 1970 के 
अनुरूप भारी कार्यों वाले वोल्टता पी वी सी केबलों 
की शार्ट -सर्किट रेटिगों के विषय में सिफारिशें दी 
गई हैं । 
( मूल्य रु० 5 . 00 ) 


__ 32. IS : 5840 ( भाग 2 ) - 1970 कैथोड 

किरण - ट्यूबों के माप भाग 2 प्राधार 


इस मानक में दोलनलेखियों , दूरदर्शन और राडार 
में प्रयुक्त कैथोड - किरण ट्यूबों में लगने वाले 
आधारों के माप दिए गए हैं । 
( मूल्य रु० 5 . 00 ) 


33 . IS : 5840 ( भाग 3 ) - 1970 कैथोड 

किरण ट्यूबों के माप भाग 3 इ एच टी 
टर्मिनल 


34. IS : 5844--1970 संपीड़ित गैस 

सिलेण्डरों की द्रव -स्थतिक खिचाव 
परीक्षण सम्बन्धी सिफारिश 


इस मानक में दोलनलेखियों , दूरदर्शन और राडार 
में प्रयुक्त कैथोड - किरण ट्यूबों में लगने वाले 
इ एच टी टर्मिनलों के माप निर्धारित किए गए हैं । 
( मूल्य रू0 3 . 00 ) 
इस मानक में संपीड़ित गैस भरने और उसके 
परिवहन के काम आने वाले सिलेन्डरों के द्रव 
स्थैतिक खिचाव परीक्षण सम्बन्धी पद्धतियां 
दी गई हैं । इस मानक में दो पद्धतिया अर्थात , 
जल जैकट पसति तथा जैकेटहीन पद्धति दी गई 


( मूल्य रु० 2. 00 ) 


35 . IS : 5845 -1970 अल्प दाब गैस सिलैण्डरों 

की चक्षु निरीक्षण की रीति संहिता 


इस मानक में अल्प दाब गैस सिलेण्डरों के अनेक बाहरी 

और भीतरी दोषों को नापने तथा उनको पास करने 
सम्बन्धी कसौटियों पर परखने से सम्बन्धित 
उपकरण को लिया गया है । इस उपकरण द्वारा 
केवल चक्षु से देखकर यह जाना जाता है कि दोष 
किस सीमा तक है । 
( मूल्य रु० 2 . 50 ) 


36 . IS : 5854- 1970 वी और एफ वी 

नुमा मुंह वाले टंग्स्टन कार्बाइड की नोक 
लगे कोयला काटने के औजारों की विशिष्टि 


इस मानक में अरीय वी और एफ वी नुमा मुंह वाले 
टग्स्टन कार्बाइड की नोक लगे कोयला काटने के 

औजारों में लगने वाली सामग्री, माप , फिनिश 
तथा परीक्षण दिए गए हैं । ये औजार होल्डर 
में या तो किसी पेंच द्वारा अथवा किसी होल्डर में 
लगी शीघ्र खुलने वाली युक्ति द्वारा लगे होते हैं । 
( मूल्य रु . 4 . 00 ) 


SEC. 3( 1 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29, 1894 


4595 


( 1) 


( 2 ) 


( 3) 


37 . Is : 5855 - 1970 तोते की चोंच नुमा 

वी और एफ वी मुंह वाले टंग्स्टन कार्याइड 
की नोक लगे कोयला काटने के औजारों की 
विशिष्टि । 


इस विशिष्टि में तोते की चोंच नुमा वी और एक 
वी मुंह वाले टंग्स्टन कार्बाइड की नोक लगे कोयला 
काटने के औजारों में लगने वाली सामग्री, माप, 
फिनिश तथा परीक्षण दिए गए हैं । ये औजार 
होल्डर में या तो किसी पेंच द्वारा अथवा किसी 
होल्डर में लगी शीघ्र खुलने वाली युक्ति द्वारा 
लगे होते हैं । 
( मूल्य रु० 3 . 50 ) 


38 . IS : 5856-- 1970 संक्षारण और तापरोधी 

क्रोमियम -निकेल इस्पात की वेल्डिगं के 
लिएठोप छड़ें और खुले इलेक्ट्रोड की विशिष्टि । 


इस मानक में संक्षारण और ताप रोधी क्रोमियम 
निकेल इस्पातों की प्रक्रिय -गैस टंग्स्टन पार्कवेल्डिंग 
अथवा गैस धातु, पार्क वेल्डिंग विधियों द्वारा वेलिंडग 
किये जाने के लिये प्रयुक्त ठोस पूरक छड़ों और खुले 
इलेक्ट्रोडों के विषय में अपेक्षाऐं दी गई हैं । पूरक 
छड़ो और तारों की रसायनिक रचना भी निर्धारित 
की गई हैं । 
( मूल्य रु० 4 . 00 ) 


39 . IS : 5858( भाग 3 ) - 1970 जलयानों 

में मशीनी संवातन प्रणालियों के सहायक 
अंगों की विशिष्टि भाग 3 प्रवात नियंत्रक । 


इस मानक में जलयानों में लगी मशीनी संवातन 
प्रणालियों में काम आने वाले प्रयास नियंत्रकों में 
लगने वाली सामग्रियों तथा तत्संबंधी माप निर्दिष्ट 
किए गए हैं । 
( मुल्य रु० 2 , 50 ) 


40 . IS : 5861 - 1970 मुरब्बा, जेली और 

फलपाग की विशिष्टि । 


इस मानक मे मुरब्बा, जेली और फलपागों से 
सम्बन्धित अपेक्षाऐं और बानगी लेने तथा परीक्षण 
की पद्धतियां दी गई हैं । 
( मूल्य रु. 4. 00 ) 


41 IS : 5863 (भाग 1 ) - 1970 

मालायियोन के अवशिष्टांश ज्ञात 
करने की पद्धति भाग 1 खाद्यान्न 
पौर तिलहन । 


इस मानक में गेहूं, चावल, ज्वार , दालों, तिलहनों , 

इत्यादि खाथानों में 0 . 2 प्रति दस लाख 
भाग तक मालाथियोन [ एस ( 1, 2 
डाइकार्वीथाक्सीइथाइल ) - 0, प्रो --डाइ 
मिथाइल डाइथायोफास्फेट के प्रवशिष्टांशों 
की मात्रा ज्ञात करने की पद्धति वी गई है । 
( मूल्य २० 2 . 50 ) 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


42 IS : 5866 -1970 उच्च अक्षांशों वाले 

पस्तानों के लिए क्रोम चमड़े की 
विशिष्टि । 


इस मानक में जलसह उपचार दिए हुए दस्ताने 

बनाने के पूर्णत : क्रोम चमड़े के विषय में 
अपेक्षाएं और बानगी लेने तथा परीक्षण 
की पद्धतियां दी गई हैं । यह चमड़ा उच्च 
माक्षाशों पर काम आने वाले दस्ताने बनाने 
के लिए होता है । 
( मूल्य रु . 3 . 50 ) 


4596 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II .-- 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


43 IS : 5868- 1969 चमड़े की बानगी इस मानक द्वारा निम्नलिखित मानकों इस मानक में पूरी खाल, बगल , पुठे, जोड़, पेट 
लेने की पति 

अथवा कंधे वाली अनगढ़ चमड़े की बानगी 
का अधिक्रमण हुआ है : 

लेने की पद्धतियां दी गई हैं । 
( 1 ) IS : 582 - 1954 वनस्पति ( मूल्य रू . 5 . 00 ) 

और क्रोम द्वारा कमाए चमड़े की 
बानगी लेने तथा परीक्षण की 

पद्धतियां । 
( 2 ) IS : 1016 - 1956 तेल 

कमाए चमड़े की बानगी लेने तथा 


44 IS : 5875 - 1970 खुले हैंहैं वाले 

परनाले ( स्कूपर ) की विशिष्टि 


इस मानक में जलयानों में जल निकास के लिए 
काम में पाने वाले खुले डैक धाले परनालों 
में लगने वाली सामग्री तथा माप निर्धारित 
किए गए हैं । 

( मूल्य रु . 2 . 50 ) 
इस मानक में जलयानों में जल निकास के लिए 
काम में आने वाले हापर परनालों में लगने 
वाली सामग्री तथा माप निर्धारित किए गए 


45 IS : 5876 - 1970 हापर परनालो 

की विशिष्टि 


46 IS: 5878 ( भाग 2 / अनभाग 1 ) - - 

1970 सुरंगें बनाने की रीति 
संहिता भाग 2 चट्टानों में भूमिगत 
खुदाई अनुभाग 1 वेधन कार्य और 

बारूद से उड़ाना 
47 IS : 5903- 1970 गैस सिलेण्डरों के 

बचाव साधनों सम्बन्धी सिफारिशें 


( मूल्य रु . 2 . 00 ) 
इस मानक में चट्टानों में सुरंगे बनाने के लिए 

भूमिगत खुदाई से सम्बन्धित वेधन -कार्य 
तथा बारूद से उड़ाने के सम्बन्ध में विवरण 
दिया गया है । 

( मूल्य रु . 7 . 00 ) 
इस मानक में गैस सिलेण्डरों में लगने वाले 
बचाव साधनों की डिजाइन , निर्माण, परीक्षण 
और प्रमाणन सम्बन्धी अपेक्षाएं दी गई हैं । 
( मूल्य रु . 6 . 50 ) 


48 *Is : 5907 - 1970 मोर्स गावदुम IS : 1836 - 1961 रीमरों की 

शैकों वाले साकेट रीमरों की विशिष्टि 
विशिष्टि 


इस मानक में मोर्स गावदूम गैंकों वाले साकेट 

रीमरों के माप तथा अपेक्षाएं निर्धारित की 
गई हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 3 . 00 ) 
इम मानक में सामान्य कार्यों के लिए और क्षार 

तथा अम्ल प्रतिरोधी लबादे बनाने के काम 
पाने वाले इकहरे बनावट के रबड़ लगे 


49 IS : 5915 - 1970 इकहरी बुनावट 

वाले रबड लगे जलसह कपड़े की 
विशिष्टि 


परीक्षण पद्धतियों निर्धारित की गई हैं । 
( मूल्य रु . 7 . 50 ) 


* भा० मा० था प्रमाणन मुहर योजना के लिए IS : 5907 - 1970, 1 फरवरी, 1972 से लागू हो जाएगा और IS: 1836 - 1961 
के साथ 311सम्बर 1972 तक लागू रहेगा । 


SEC. 3 ( 11 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


_ _ _ _ __ 4597 


--- - - 


- 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


50 * IS : 5918 -1970 गावदुम पिन 

वाले मशीन रीमरों की विशिष्टि 


IS : 1836-- 1961 रीमरों 

विशिष्टि 


51 * IS : 5919 -1970 मशीनी ब्रिज 

रीमरों की विशिष्टि 


52 *IS : 5926 -- 1970 शेल रीमरों को 

विशिष्टि 


की इस मानक में IS: 2393- 1963 बेलनाकार 

तथा गावदुम पिनों की विशिष्टि के अनुरूप 
गावदुम पिनों के मशीन - रीमरों के सम्बन्ध 
में माप तथा अपेक्षाएं निश्चित की गई हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 3 . 00 ) 
इम मानक में मशीनी बिज रीमरों के माप तथा 

अपेक्षाएं निर्धारित की गई हैं । 

( मूल्य रु . 3. 00 ) 
इस मानक में गावदुम छेद बाले तथा प्रार-पार 

खांच द्वारा चालन वाले शेल रीमरों के माप 
तथा अपेक्षाएं निर्धारित की गई हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 3. 00 ) 
इस मानक में चलदार सिरोंबले शैक टाइप एक 

और टेप लगे सिरों वाले शैक टाइप बी वाले 
औजारों के लिए 7/ 24 टेंपर से मोर्स टेपरों 
को जोड़ने वाले स्लीव के विषय में माप तथा 
प्रपेक्षाएं दी गई हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 3 . 00 ) 
इस मानक में स्पर्श रेखीय प्रवणतामापी के विषय 

में अपेक्षाऐं दी गई हैं । 
( मूल्य रु . 2 . 50 ) 


53 IS : 5927- 1970, 7 / 24 गावदुम 

में मोर्स गावदूम को जोड़ने वाले 
स्लीव की विशिष्टि 


54 IS : 5928 - 1970 स्पर्श रेखीय 

प्रवणता मापी की विशिष्ट 


55 IS : 5950 - 1971 विस्फोट के लिए 

प्रयुक्त केबल की विशिष्ट 


इस मानक में विस्फोट के लिए प्रयुक्त निम्नलिखित 
प्रकार के केबलों के विषय में माप तथा कार्यप्रयता 
सम्बन्धी अपेक्षाएँ तथा परीक्षण पद्धतियां दी 

गई हैं : 
( क ) एक विस्फोट के लिए दोहरे केबल , तथा 
( ख ) अनेक विस्फोट के लिए इकहरी कोर वाले 

और दोहरे केबल 
( मूल्य रु . 3 . 50 ) 


56 IS : 595 1 - 1970 बाहर खुले में 

रख कर वायुमण्डलीय अपक्षय पर 
देवपटाइल सामग्री के रंग का पक 
कापन निकालने की पद्धतियां 


इस मानक में ( सूती , ऊनी, रेशमी , आदि ) टैक्स 
टाइल सामग्रियों को खुले में रख कर वायुमण्डलीय 

अपक्षय में रंग का पक्कापन निकालने की यो 
पद्धतियां निर्धारित की गई है । 
( मूल्य रु० 3 . 50 ) 


57 IS : 5955 - 1970 इमली के सत 

की विशिष्ट 


इस मकान में इमली के सत के विषय में अपेक्षाए, 
बानगी लेने तथा परीक्षण की पद्धतियांनिर्धारित 

की गई हैं । 
( मूल्य १० 2 . 50 ) 


- 


- 


- 


. 


- 


- . 


* भा० मा० संस्था प्रमाणन मुहर योजना के लिए IS: 5918 - 1970, IS: 5919- 1970 और IS: 5926- 1970, 1 फरवरी , 
1972 से लागू हो जाएंगे और IS : 1836 - 1961 के साथ 31 दिसम्बर , 1972 तक लागू रहेगें । 


4598 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


P 


58 IS : 5963 - 1971 इस्पात के विक 

इस मानक में इस्पात के विकलांगता फैलिपर्स के 
लांगता कैलिपर्स के लिए बिना 

के लिए बिना ताले वाले टखना जोड़ों के विषय 
ताले वाले टखना जोड़ की विशिष्टि 

में माप सम्बन्धी तथा अन्य अपेक्षाऐं निर्धारित 
की गई हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 3. 05 ) 
59 IS : 5964 - 1971 विकलांगता 

इस मानक में विकलांगता कैलिपर्स के लिए गोल 
कैलिपर्स के लिए गोल स्पर की 

स्पर के विषय में माप सम्बन्धी तथा अन्य 
विशिष्टि 

अपेक्षाएं निर्धातिर की गई हैं । 

( मूल्य १० 3. 00 ) 
60 IS: 5965 - 1970 दांत के रबड़ 

इस मानक में लिगेचर और दांत के फलैम्पों में 
डैम के फेम की विशिष्टि 

सामंजस्य हो जाने के बाद रबड़ डैम को सही 
स्थिति में रखने के लिए काम में पाने वाले 
फेम के विषय में माप तथा अन्य प्रपेक्षाएं दी 
वी गई हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 3 . 00 ) 
01 IS : 5974 - 1970 दीवान और 

यह मानक घरेलू फर्नीचर से सम्बधित है और इसमें 
पाराम कुर्सियों की विशिष्टि 

दीवानों और हत्थे -वाली तपा बिना हत्ये 
वाली पाराम कुर्सियों में लगने वाली 
सामग्री सम्बन्धी अपेक्षाएं दी गई है तथा 
उनके काम में आने वाले माप भी निचिश्त 
किए गए है । 

( मूल्य रु . 2 . 50 ) 
62. IS : 5978-- 1970 शिरोपरि पावर इस मानक में IS : 876 - 1961 के इस मानक में शिरोपरि पावर प्रेषण लाइनों . 

और दूरसंचार लाइनों के लिए परिशिष्टि में दिए गए डिजाइन टेलीफोन और तार के परिपथों के लिए 
लकड़ी के खम्भों की डिजाइन की सम्बन्धी पक्ष का अधिक्रमण किया उपयुक्त ठोस और जोड़ लगे लकड़ी के खम्भों के 
रीति संहिता गया है । 

बारे में डिजाइन पद्धतियां दी गई हैं । ये खम्भे 
देश में चौड़ी पत्ती वाले शंकुधारी दोनों प्रकार 
के पेड़ों की लकड़ी से बनाए जाते हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 4 . 00 ) 
63 IS : 5980 - 1970 बेंच सेंटर की 

इस मानक में 125, 160 और 200 मिमी ऊंचाई 
विशिष्टि 

के केन्द्रों वाले बेंच सेंटरों के विषय में अपेक्षाएं 
निर्धारित की गई हैं । ये बेंच सेंटर रन- प्राउट 
और केन्द्रीयता , इत्यादि की जांच में काम 
पाते हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 5 . 00 ) 
64 IS: 5993 - 1970 तार और टेलीफोन 

इस मानक में निम्नलिखित कार्यों में उपयोग 
के कार्यो के लिए एल्युमिनियम 

के लिए गोल एल्यमिनियमक्रत इस्पात के तारों 
कृत इस्पात के तारों की विशिष्टि 

के विषय में अपेक्षाएं निर्धारित की गई है : 
( क ) सार तथा टेलीफोन लाइनों के तार के 

लिए, तथा 
( ख ) तार तथा टेलीफोन तारों को बांधने और 

जोड़ने के तारों के लिए । 
( मूल्य ३० 3 . 50 ) 


Suc. 3 ( i) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


458 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


65 IS : 5996- 1970 पट्टे बनाने के 

सूती डक की विशिष्टि 


66 IS : 6008-- 1971 एक प्रापरेटर 

वाले ए०सी०डी० सी० पार्क वेल्डिग 
के पावर स्रोत की विशिष्टि 


67 IS : 6009 - 1970 त्वाति संक्षरण 

परीक्षणों में परिणाम परखने की 
पद्धति 


68 IS : 6010 - 1971 वर्णक्रम रसाय 

निक विश्लेषण में फोटोग्राफी प्रक्रम 
की सिफारिशी रीति 


इस मानक में कनवेयर , एलिवेटर तथा संवाहन 
पट्टे बनाने के लिए प्रयुक्त सूती डक के विषय 
में अपेक्षाए निर्धारित की गई है । 

( मूल्य रु . 3 . 00 ) 
इस मानक में एक प्रापरेटर वाले ए सी / डी सी 

आर्फ वेल्डिग के पावर स्रोत के बारे में अपेक्षाएं 
और परीक्षण दिए गए हैं । इनमें गिरावट के 
लक्ष्ण वाले ठोस स्थिति के रेक्टीफायर भी 
पाते हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 5 . 00 ) 
इस मानक में आधार धातु पर चढ़ाए गए त्वरित 

संक्षरण परीक्षण के अधीन एनोडी लेपों के 
अतिरिक्त अन्य लेपों की कार्यप्रतदा की 
परिभाषएं देने से सम्बन्धित एक रेटिंग प्रणाली 
निर्धारित की गई है । इस पति में केवल 
माघार धातु के संरक्षण को ही ध्यान में रखा 
गया है । 

( मूल्य २० 2 . 00 ) 
इस मानक में वर्णक्रम रसायनिक विश्लेषण में 

काम पाने वाली फोटोग्राफी प्लेटों और 
फिल्मों के प्रक्रम के लिए सामान्य तौर से 
प्रयुक्त रीतियों की सिफारिशें दी गई हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 4 . 00 ) 
इस मानक में 17. 5 कि० ग्रा० बल प्रति वर्ग 
सेंटीमीटर के कार्यकारी दाब पर जलयानों 
में काम आने वाली वेल्डकृत तथा सीवन 
रहित कार्बन इस्पात की नलियों के विषय में 
अपेक्षाएँ दी गई हैं । 
( मूल्य रु० 3 . 50 ) 
इस मानक में किसी प्रचुम्बकीय प्राधार धातु 
पर अचालक लेपन की मोटाई भंवर धारा 
यंत्र के उपयोग द्वारा ज्ञात करने की अनाशक 
मापन पद्धति का विवरण दिया गया है । 

( मूल्य रु० 2 . 50 ) 
इस मानक में पायरेथम से बने पायसनीय लाखा 
नाशक तेल के विषय में निरीक्षण और 
परीक्षण पद्धतियां दी गई हैं । यह तेल 
मच्छरों के विनाश के लिए तथा सील 
तालाब और पानी भरे रहने वाले अन्य 
ऐसे ही अंडा देने के स्थानों में लाखानाशक 
के रूप में नियंत्रण के लिए काम में माता 


69 IS : 6011 - 1970 दाबकार्यों के 

लिए जलयानों में काम आने वाली 
कार्बन इस्पात की नलियों की 
विशिष्टि 


70 IS : 6012 - 1970 भंवर धारा द्वारा 

लेप की मोटाई निकालने की 


पति 


71 IS : 6014 - 1970 पायरेयम से 

बने लाखानाशक पायसनीय तेल 
की विशिष्टि 


( मूल्य १० 7. 50 ) 


- 


. . 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


- - । 


- -- 


4600 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II - - 


( 1 ) 


72 IS : 6019 - 1971 प्लेटिनम तश्तरी 

की विशिष्टि 


73 IS : 6021 -- 1971 वाशर वाले 


रिम वाले वेब - इक्विपमेंट नाकों 
मौर 6 . 6 मिमी नाकों की 

विशिष्टि 
74 IS : 6023 - 1970 उत्क्रमणीय पांचे 

की विणिष्टि 


75 IS : 6028- 1971 कच्चे केलों के 

भण्डारण और परिवहन की मार्ग 
दशिका 


इस मानक में प्रयोगशालाओं में काम पाने वाली 
प्लेटिनम की तश्तरियों ( 10 से 700 
मि० लि . वाली ) के विषय में शुद्धता , 
फिनिश, डिजाइन , समाई , माप और तोल 
सम्बन्धी अपेक्षाएं दी गई हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 1 . 50 ) 
इस मानक में वाशर वाले अथवा बिना वाशर 
वाले रंगदार रिम वाले वन- इक्विपमेंट नाकों 
और 6 . 6 मिमी नाकों के विषय में माप 
तथा अपेक्षाएं निर्धारित की गई हैं । , 

( मूल्य २० 5 . 00 ) 
इस मानक में उरक्रमणीय पाचों ( शावेल ) को 

विनिमय योग्य बनाने की दृष्टि से उन पर 
लगने वाली सामग्री और माप निर्धारित 
किए गए हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 3 . 50 ) 
इस मार्गदर्शिका में कच्चे केलों के उत्पादन 
स्थान से उनके खपत के स्थान पर पहुंचने 
से पहले भण्डारण के समय तथा समुद्र में 
परिवहन के समय बनावटी ठंडक पहुंचाने 
की व्यवस्था होने पर अथवा न होने पर 
उनको सफलतापूर्वक भरे रखने सम्बन्धी 
स्थितियां बताई गई हैं । 

( मूल्य १० 2 . 50 ) 
इस मानक में खाद्य श्रेणी के सोडियम प्रापियोनेट 
से सम्बंधित अपेक्षाएं तथा परीक्षण पद्धतियां 
दी गई हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 3 . 50 ) 
इस मानक में ताजी मेंकरेल ( रेस्ट्रलिजर प्रजाती ) 

के विषय में अपेक्षाएं और बानगी लेने तथा 
परीक्षण की पद्धतियां निर्धारित की गई हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 2 . 50 ) 
इस मानक में किनारे वाले निर्मात फिल्टरों के 
विषय में रेटित विद्युत उत्पादन तथा अन्य 
अपेक्षाएं निर्धारित की गई हैं । ये फिल्टर 
ट्रांसफामर और स्विच तेलों को , भारत में 
प्राप्त जलवायु सम्बन्धी प्रात्यंतिक स्थितियों 
तथा विभिन्न ऊंचे स्थलों को ध्यान में रखते 
हुए सुखाने तथा उनको शुद्ध करने के काम में 
पाते हैं । 

( जूला रु . 2 . 50 ) 
इस मानक में जस्ता फास्फेट सीमेंट के विषय में 

अपेक्षाएं और बानगी लेन तथा परीक्षण की 
पद्धतियां दी गई हैं । 
( मूल्य रु. 5- 50 ) 


76 IS : 6030 - 1971 खाद्य श्रेणी के 

सोडियम प्रापियोनेट की विशिष्टि 


77 IS : 6032-- 1971 ताजी मैकरेल 

की विशिष्टि 


78 IS : 6034 - 1971 किनारेदार 

निर्वात फिल्टर की विशिष्टि 


7 ) IS : 6035 - 1970 जस्ता फास्फेट 

दत सीमेंर की विशिष्टि 


- 3( ii ; ] 


4601 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 

- - 

- - - - - -- - --- --- 
( 3) 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


80 IS : 6036 - 1970 दान की छाप लेने 

की एल्जीनेट यकत सामग्री की 
विशिष्टि 


इस मानक में पाउडर के रूप में दांतों की छाप 

लेने की सामग्री के विषय में अपेक्षाएं और 
बानगी लेने तथा परीक्षण की पद्धतियां दी 
गई हैं । इस सामग्री में जेल बनाने वाले 
तत्व के रूप में एक एल्टीनेट होता है । 
( मल्य रु . 5 . 00 ) 


1 IS : 6044 ( भाग 1 ) --1971 द्रविन 

पेट्रोलियम गैस मिलेपर संस्थापन 
की रीति संहिता भाग 1 व्यापारिक 
और प्रौद्योगिक स्थानों में संस्थापन 


इम मानक में व्यापारिक और औद्योगिक स्थानों 
में एल पी जी सिलेण्डरों, पाँइप नलियों और 
अन्य रपकरण के संस्थापन की रीति संहिता 
दी गई है । 
( मूल्य रु . 4 . 00 ) 
इम मानक में प्रक्षालक पाउने की अपेक्षाएं 
तथा बानगी लेने और परीक्षण की पद्धतियां 
दी गई है । 
( मूल्य रु० 2 . 50 ) 


82 IS : 60 47 - 1970 प्रक्षालक पाउडरों 

की विशिष्टि 


83 IS : 605 1 - 1970 एल्युमिनियम 

और उसकी मिश्र धातुओं की 
पदनामन संहिता 


84 IS : 6068 - 1970 कताई मगीनरी 

( दुहराई के पूर्व ) -- पूनी प्रणाली , 
की नामावली 


इस संहिता में एल्युमिनियम और उसकी मिश्र 

धातुओं जैसे, पिटयां मिश्र धातुएं , एल्य 
मिनियम ( अमिश्रित ) , ढलाई की मिश्र 
धातुएं, ढली हुई वस्तुएं ( अमिश्रित ) और 
प्राथमिक इंगटों के पदनाम देने की पति 
निर्धारित की गई है । 

( मूल्य रु० 3 50 ) 
इस मानक में कताई मगीनरी ( दुहराई के पूर्व ) 

सूती प्रणाली , की नामावली दी गई है । 

( मूल्य झc 3. 00 ) 
इस मानक में निर्वात टेकनालाजी में काम में आने 

वाले फ्लैजों और कालर के माप निर्धारित 
किए गए हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 4 . 00 ) 
इम मानक में 35 मिमी चलचित्र फिल्मों के 

भण्डारण और परिवहन के काम में आने 
वाले 300 और 600 मीटर समाई वाले 
डबबों की माप सम्बन्धी तथा अन्य अपेक्षाएं 
दी गई हैं । 
( मूल्य २० 3 . 00 ) 


85 IS : 6076 - 1971 निर्वात फ्लैगों 

के माप 


86 IS : 6095 - 1971 35 - मिमी 

चलचित्र फिल्मों के डब्बों की 
विशिष्टि 


87 IS : 6097-- 1971 चलचित्र और 

चुम्बकीय फिल्मों के मध्य भाग के 


माप 


इस मानक में 15, 35, 65 और 70 मिमी 

पौड़ी चम्बकीय लेगन अथवा पट्टी वाली 
छिद्रित फिल्मों और चलचिन फिल्मों के लपेटने , 
भण्डारण और परिवहन के लिए उसके मध्य 
भाग सम्बन्धी मापनिर्धारित किए गए हैं । 
( मूल्य रु . 3 . 00 ) 


- - 


- 


-- 


- 


- - 


4602 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[PART 11 


- 


( 1 ) 


(3 ) 


88 IS : 6099 - 1971 yif # fTe 

चलनावलम्ब की विशिष्टि 


इस मानक में अपंगों के चलनावलम्ब ( वॉकर ) के 

विषय में माप सम्बन्धी तथा अन्य प्रपेक्षाएं 
निर्धारित की गई हैं । 
(H24 5 . 00 ) 


इन भारतीय मानकों की प्रतियां भारतीय मानक संस्था १, बहादुर शाह जफर भार्ग, नई दिल्ली - 1, और उसके शाखा कार्यालयों ( 1 ) 
*HTCTT CHIEFH era ant, an , 6 916 - 1, ( 2 ) fathe in farfarir, taft TT, airte - 9, ( 3 ) 534 HTTTTTH T 
Tatto , 6 - 7 , ( 4 ) 5 , it pater it , TT - 13, ( 5 ) 5 - 9 - 201/ 2, ferty of T , GTATG - 1, ( 6 ) 117 / 
418 - eft , Hatay FriT , # 11797 - 5 , 7 ( 7 ) 54 , TTA AT TE , FETH - 21 thI I 

एम० वी० पाकर, उपमानिदेशक । 

[fo TH $ / 3 : 2 ] 


NOTIFICATION 
S . 0 . 3 306 . In pursuance of regulation 4 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks ) Regulations , 1955., the Indian 
Standards Institution hereby notifies that amendment (o ) to the Indian Standard (s ) given in the schedule hereto annexed /have been issued 
111nder the powers conferred by the sub -regulation ( 1) ofRegulation 3 of thc Bald Regulations . 

THR SCHEDULE 


1. 


No . and title of the Indian No. and Date of No, and Date of Brief particulars of the 
Standard amended Gazette Notification the Amendment Amendment 

in which the cagta 
blishment of the 
Indian Standard 
was notified , 


Date from which 
the amendment 

shall have effect . 


(T) 


(2) 


(3 ) 


(5 ) 


Tables I and 2 have been amended . 


I January 1972 


I. IS : 177 -1970 Specification s. O , 1277 dated No. 1 January 

for cotton drills (Second May 27 , 1972 1972 

Revision ) 
2 IS : 278 - 1969 Sepecification S . O . 639 dated 21 * No, I Novem 

for galvanized steel February 1970 ber 1971 
barbed wire for fencing 
(Second Rovision ) 


(1) Clause 3 2 has been subst - 1 November 1971 
ituted by a new one and the 
foot - noted with (* ) mark has 

been deleted , 
( ii ) Clause 7 . 3 has been substi 

tuted by a new one and the 
foot -notes with ( t) and ($ ) 

marks have been deleted . 
( lit ) Clauc 7 , 5 has been deleted . 


1 January 1972 


3 . IS : 286 - 1966 Methods of S . O . 1759 dated No. 1 January 
sampling and test for 20 May 1967 

1972 
soaps ( First Revision ) 


( i) Clause 10 - 1 - 6 has been 

deleted 
(ii) Clauses 10 2 1 and 10 2 . 2 

have been amended 
( ii) ( Page 24 , clause 10 . 3 , for 

mula ) Substitute 14 . 6 for 

I 46 ". 
(iv ) A new clause 0 . 4 I bag 

been added . 


1. IS : 565- 1961 Specification 

for DDT water dispers - 
ible powder concentrates 
(Revised ) 


I December 1971 


S . O . 2242 dated 

21 July 1962 


No. 4 
December 1971 


(Page 4 , clasusc 5 . 1 ( gce Amend 
ment No. 2 , second line of 
clause 5 . 1 ) ] - Substitute 
O 062mm ( 250 gauge ) for 

" O : 125 mm ( soo gauge ) . 
[Page 9 , clause B - 3 . 1 , line 2 

( see also Amendment No. 2 , 

September 1970 ) ] Şubstituto 
o 25 percent for o 5 per 

ctnt. 


5 


S . O . 1759 dated 

20 May 1967 


No.3 
October 1971 


1 


October 1971 


I $ : 1507 - 1966 Specification 

for copper oxychloride 
water dispersible powder 
concentrates ( First Reut 
słon ) 


Forpurposes of ISI Certificarion Marks Scheme, this amendment shall come into force with effect from 1 January 1972 . 


Sec . 3 ( 1) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4603 


(3 ) 


No. 6 
December 1971 


Clause 5 . 1 has been emended 


6 . IS : 2129 - 1962 Specification s . O . 3881 date :t 

for parathion emulsi- No. 29 December 
fiablc concentrates 

1962 


1 December 1971 


Clausc B - 2 : 1 has been amended I Decembor 1971 


No. 4 
December 1971 

No. 3 
December 1971 


Clause 3 . 1 has been amended 


1 December 1971 


No. 4 
December 1971 


A note has been added at the 
end of clause B - 2 . 1, 


I December 1971 


7 . IS : 2566 - 1965 Spocification S . O . 1501 datod 

for B -twill juto bags 8 May 1965 

(Revised ) 
8 . IS : 2865 - 1964 Specification $. 0 . 895 dated 

formethyl parathion em - 20 March 1965 

ulsifiable concentrates . 
9 . IS : 2874 - 1964 Specification $. O . 3951 dated 

for heavy cce Jute bage. 16 November 1964 
10 . IS : 3327 - 1965 Specification S . O . 1081 dated 

for paddy thresher, pedal 9 April 1966 

operated 
II. IS : 3344 - 1965 Specification S. O . 1081 dated 

for D . W . tarpaulin 9 April 1966 
jute bags for packing 

(Mint) colns 
12. IS : 3390 - 1965 Specification S , O . 1756 dated 

for sphygmomanometers , II June 1966 
mercurial 


* No. 2 
June 1971 


I June 1971 


(Page 8 , clause 8 - 2 - 3 , first line)- 

Substitute spring steel for 

mild steel . 
A Note has been added at the 

end of clause B - 2 . I 


No. 2 
December 1971 


1 December 1971 


No. 3 
Tanuary 1972 


(i) Clause 4 . 5 lias been substi- 1 January 1972 

tuted by a new one . 
(ii) (Page 5 , foot - note with an 
asterisk (* ) mark )-- - substitute 
the following for the existing 
matter : 
" Specification for cotton twills 

( terised ) ) " 
( lit) New matter has been added 

in clause 4 . 8 . 2 
Clause 4 . 3 has been substituted 1 January 1972 
by a new one, 


No . 1 
January 1972 


13 . IS : 3446 - 1966 Specification S . O , 2246 dated 

for leather approns for 30 July 1966 

drafting systems, 
14 . IS : 3667 - 1966 Specification $ 2 . 913 dated 18 
for B - twill cloth 

March 1967 


No , I 
January 1972 


1 January 1972 


(Page 9, clase B - 2 1, line 4 of 
Note) Substitute the words 
under the electrode gun having 
two poles for the words 
between two poles . 


No. 1 
January 1972 


This amendment is beingTissued 
to include another size of the 


I January 1972 


dusters . 


No. 1 
December 1971 


Clasuc 4 . 4 has been substituted 

by a new one 


I December 1971 


15. IS : 3777 - 1966 Specifica - S . O . yI3 dated 

tion for dusters , cotton 18 March 1967 

khadi, bleached 
16 . IS : 4059 - 1967 Accuracy S . O . 2654 dated 

requirements formedium 5 Aug. 1967 
quality medium speed 

gears 
17. IS : 4309 - 1967 Methods of S . O . 520 dated 

measurement on direct 10 February 1968 

reading pH meters 
18 . IS : 4578 - 1968 Specification $ . 0 . 2766 dated 

for lubricating oils for 10 August 1968 
refrigeration machinery 


No. I 
December 1971 


Clause 5 has been substituted by 
a new one 


1 December 1971 


No. I 
January 1972 


1 January 1972 


This amendment provides for 

the electric strength test as an 
alternate to the crackling test 
for limiting the moisturc 
content in the material, 


19 . IS : 4778 - 1968 Specification S . O . 368 dated 25 

for cotton laces for foot - January 1969 
wear 


No. 2 
December 1971 


(i) Clases I- I - I and 2 - 3 . høye 1 December 1971 

been amended 


(1 ) Clause 3 - 2 has been sub 

stituted by a new one . 
(1 ) Tables I and 2 have been 

amended 
(1) Clausc 6 6 . 3 . 2 has been 

Amended 
(ii) Clause 6 . 7 . 1 has been sub 

stituted by a new one, 


20 . IS : 4807- 1968 Methods of $ . 0 . 2330 dated 

testing viscose rayon gtaple 14 June 1969 
fibres 


I January 1972 


No, I 
January 1972 


21 . 


I $ : 4948 - 1968 Specification S . O . 1906 dated 

for welded steel wire a 17 May 1969 
fabric for general use 


No. 7 
November 1971 


I November 1971 


( Page 4 , clause 3 . 3 )-- Substi- 
tute IS : 1521- 1960 * for 
IS : 280- 1972 . 


* Por purposes of ISI certfication Marks soheme, this amendmont shall come in to force witheffect from I Jaunaty 1972 , 


4604 _ _ 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29, 194 


[ PART II 


( 4 ) 


S. 0 . 918 dated 7 
March 1970 


. No. I 
November 1971 


(Page 6 , clause A - I I, third 
sentence ) - Delete. 


1 November 1971 


22 . IS : 5281 -1969 Specifica - 

tion for fenitrothion emu- 

Isifiable concentrates. 
23 . IS : 5443 - 1969 Technical 

supply conditions for 
reamers , 


S . O . 1277 dated 

27 May 1972 


No . I 
October 1971 


( Page 5, clause 5, Figurc ) - I October 197I 

Substitute Maximum limit 
of reamer diameter - maximum 
limit of hole diameter 
0 . IS IT for Maximum limit 
of reamer diameter - minimum 
limit of the hole diameter 
0 . 15 IT ". 


* For purposes of ISI Certification Marka Scheme 

this amendment shall come into force with effect from 
Ist January 1972. 


Copics of these amendments are available with the Indian Standard Institution , Manak Bhavan , 9 Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, 
New Delhi- 1 and also its branch offices at (i) 534 Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Road , Bombay - 7 ( ii ) 5 Chowringhce Approach , Calcutta 
13 (iil) 54 General Pattors Road , Madras - 2 (iv ) 117/418 B , Sarvodya Nagar Kanpur , ( v ) 5 - 9 - 201/ 2 Chirag Ali Lane, Hyderabad - 1 , 
( vi) SADHNA Nurmohamed Shaikh Marg , Kanpur , Ahemadabad - I und (vii ) F Block , Unity Bldg ., Narasimharaja Square, 
Bangalore - 2 . 

[ No . CMD/ 13 :5 ] 
नई दिल्ली, 17 अगस्त 1972 
एस० ओ० 3306: - भारतीय मानक संस्था ( प्रमाणन चिह्न ) विनियम 1955, के विनियम 4 के अनुसार भारतीय मानक संस्था 
द्वारा अधिसूचित किया जाता है कि उक्त विनियम के 3 के उपविनियम ( 1 ) के अनुसार प्राप्त अधिकार के अधीन यहां अनुसूची में दिए 
भारतीय मानकों के संशोधन जारी किए गए हैं : 


अनुसूची 


क्रम संशोधित भारतीय मानकों की 
संख्या ! पद संख्या और शीर्षक 


जिस राजपत्र में संशोधन की संख्या संशोधन का संक्षिप्त विवरण 
भारतीय मानक पौर दिनक 
तैयार होने की 


संशोधत लागू होने 
की तिथी 


उसकी संख्या और 
दिनांक 


( 1 ) 


( 2) 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


( 5 ) 


[ 


1 . IS : 177 - 1970 सूती जीन की एम प्रो 1277 सं० 1 जनवरी सारणी 1 और 2 का संशोधन किया 1 जनवरी 1971 
विशिष्टि ( दूसरा पुनरीक्षण ) दिनांक 27 मई 1972 गया है 

1972 
2 . IS : 278 - 1969 बाड़ लगाने के लिए एस प्रो 639 * सं0 1 नवम्बर ( 1 ) खण्ड 3 . 2 के स्थान पर नया 1 नवम्बर 1971 
अस्ता बढ़े इस्पात के कांटेदार दिनांक 21 फरवरी 1971 

खण्ड दिया गया है और ( * ) 
तार की विशिष्टि ( दूसरा 1970 

तारांकित पाद टिप्पणी हटा दी गई 
पुनरीक्षण ) 

( 2 ) खण्ड 7. 3 के स्थान पर नया 

खण्ड दिया गया है और ( * ) 
तथा ( S ) अंकित पाद टिप्प 

णियां हटा दी गई हैं । 
( 3 ) खण्ड 7 . 5 हटा दिया गया है । 


* भारतीय मानक संस्था प्रमाणन चिह्नयोजना कार्यों के लिए यह संशोधन 1 जनवरी, 1972 से लागू हो जाएगा । 


SEC . 3 (ii ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4605 


Desa === 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 
- 


. 


- 
- - - 


THERE 


- .. - . 


- 


: : 


- 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3) 


( 4) 


( 5 ) 


5 


( 6 ) 


3 . IS : 286-- 1966 साबुन की बानगी एस पो 1759 

लेने तथा परीक्षण की पद्धतियां दिनांक 20 मई 
( पहला पुनरीक्षण ) 

1967 


संख्या 1 जनारी , ( 1 ) खण्ड 10 . 1 . 6 हटा दिया 1 जनवरी, 72 
1972 ___ गया है । 

( 2 ) खण्ड 10 . 2 . 1 और 10 . 2 

. 2 का संशोधन किया गया 


( 3 ) (पृष्ठ 24, खण्ड 10. 3, सूत्र ) 

-- 1 . 46 के स्थान पर 14 . 6 

कर लीजिए । 
( 4 ) एक नया खण्ड 0 . 4 . 1 

__ जोड़ा गया है । 
4 . IS : 565 - 1961 डी डी टी जल एस ओ 2242 सं० 4 दिसम्बर ( पृष्ठ 4, खण्ड 5 . 1 ( संशोधन 1 दिसम्बर 71 

विसर्जनीय तेज चूर्ण की दिनांक 21 जुलाई , 1971 संख्या 2 में खण्नु 5 . 1 की दूसरी 
विशिष्टि ( पुनरीक्षित ) 1962 

पंक्ति देखिर) - 0 . 125 मिमी 
( 500 गेज ) के स्थान पर 0 . 062 

मिमी ( 250 गेज ) कर लीजिए । 
-निनीय 
5 . IS : 1507 - 1966 जल विसर्जनीय एस ओ 1759 

स ो 1759 सं0 3 अक्टबर ( पृष्ठ 9, खण्ड बी 3 . 1 पंकिन 2 - 1 अक्टूबर 71 
ताम्याक्सीक्लोराइड तेज चूर्ण दिनांक 20 मई 1971 संशोधन संख्या 2 सितम्बर 1970 
की विशिष्टि ( पहला 1967 

भी देखिए ) o . 5 प्रतिशत के 
पुनरीक्षण ) 

स्थान पर 0 . 25 प्रतिशत कर लीजिए । 
8 . IS: 2129 - 1962 पैराथियोन का एम ओ 3881 सं . 6 दिसम्बर , खण्ड बी - 5 . 1 का संशोधन 1 दिसम्बर, 71 
पायसनीय तेज द्रव की विशिष्टि दिनांक 29 दिसम्बर , 1971 किया गया है । 

1962 
7. IS: 2566 -1965 बी - ट्रियल पटसन एस ओ 1501 सं० 4 दिसम्बर, खण्ड बी - 2. 1 का संशोधन किया 1 दिसम्बर, 71 
बोरों की विशिष्टि दिनांक 8 मई, 1971 

गया है । 
( पुनरीक्षित ) 

1965 
8 . IS: 2865 - 1964 मिथाईल पैरा - एम ओ 895 सं0 3 दिसम्बर , खण्ड 3 . 1 का संशोधन किया 1 दिसम्बर, 71 

थियोन के पायसनीय तेज द्रव दिनांक 20 मार्च, 1971 गया है । 
की विशिष्टि 

1965 
9 . IS : 2874 - 1964 भारी सी पटसन एस ओ 3951 सं० 4 

एण्ड बी - 2 . 1 के अन्त में एक 1 दिसम्बर , 71 
बोरों की विशिष्टि 

दिनांक 16 नवम्बर, दिसम्बर 1971 टिप्पणी जोडी गई है । 

1964 
10 . IS : 3327 - 1965 पैडल चालित एस प्रो 1081 * सं0 2 जून , ( पृष्ठ 8, खण्ड 8 . 2 . 3, पहली 1 जून , 1971 
धान गाहने की मशीन की दिनांक 9 अप्रैल , 1971 

पंक्ति ) 
विशिष्टि 1966 

"माईल्ड स्टील " के स्थान पर 
__ " स्परिंग स्टील " कर लीजिए । 


सं0 2 दिसम्बर 
1971 


खण्ड बी 2 . 1 के स्थान के अन्त में 1 दिसम्बर , 71 
एक टिप्पगी जोडी गई है । 


11 . IS: 3344 - 1965 ( टकसाल के ) एस ओ 1080 

सिक्कों की पैकिंग के लिएडी० दिनांक 9 अप्रैल 
उब्ल्यू तिरपाल के पटसन बोरों 1966 
की विशिष्टि 


* भारतीय मानक संस्था प्रमाणन चिन्ह योजना कार्यों के लिए यह संशोधन 1 जनवरी, 1972 से लागू हो जाएगा । 


4606 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II 


( 1) 


( 2) 


( 3) 


( 4 ) 


( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


12. IS : 3390 - 1965 पारे वाले रक्त - एस प्रो 1756 सं० 6 जनवरी ( 1 ) खण्ड 4 - 5 के स्थान पर नया 1 जनवरी , 72 
बाप मापियों की विशिष्टि दिनांक 11 जून 1972 खण्ड दिया गया है । 
1966 

( 2 ) [ पृष्ठ 5 ( * ) तारांकित पाद 
टिप्पणी] - वर्तमान पाठ के स्थान 
पर निम्नलिखित कर लीजिए : 
" specification for cotton twilis (revised )" 
( 3 ) खण्ड 4 . 8 . 2 में नई सामग्री 

जोड़ी गई है । 
13. IS: 3446 - 1966 ड्राफटिंग एस पो 2246 सं० 1 जनवरी, खण्ड 4 . 3 के स्थान पर नया खण्ड 1 जनवरी, 72 

प्रणाली के लिए चमडे के दिनांक 30 जुलाई , 1972 __ जोड़ा गया है । 
ऐप्रनों की विशिष्टि 

1966 
14 . IS: 3667 - 1966 बी -ट्रिवल कपड़े एस प्रो 913 सं० 1 जनवरी , ( पृष्ठ 9, खण्ड बी 2. 1 टिप्पणी । जनवरी , 72 
की विशिष्टि 

दिनांक 18 मार्च, 1972 की पंक्ति ( 4 ) between two 
1967 

poles के स्थान पर 
under the electrode 
gun having two pale 

कर लीजिए । 
15 . IS : 3777 - 1968 सूती खादी 

स० 1 जनवरी यह संशोधन उस्टरों की एक अन्य 1 जनवरी 1972 
के विरंजित उस्टरो की दिनांक 18 मार्च 1972 साइज शामिल करते के उद्देश्य 
विशिष्टि 1967 

से जारी किया जा रहा है । 
16 IS : 4059 - 1967 मध्य वेग एस प्रो 2654 सं० 1 दिसम्बर खंड 4 . 4 के स्थान पर नया खंड ___ 1 दिसम्बर 
वाली मध्यम किस्म के वेग दिनांक 5 अगस्त 1971 दिया गया है । 

1971 
गियरों की परिशुद्धताओं सबं - 1967 

न्धी अपेक्षाएं 
17. IS : 4300 - 1967 त्यक्षदर्शी एस पी 520 सं० 1 दिसम्बर खंड 5 के स्थान पर नया खंड दिया 1 दिसम्बर 1971 
पी एच मापियों की मापन दिनांक 10 1971 

गया है । 
पद्धति 

फरवरी 1968 
18. IS : 4578 - 1968 प्रशीतन एस ओ 2706 सं० 1 जनवरी इस संशोधन द्वारा मानक में स्नेहक 1 जनवरी 1972 
मशीनादि के लिए स्नेहक दिनांक 10 1972 

तेल में नमी की मात्रा के परि 
तेल की विशिष्टि अगस्त 1988 

सीमन के चटकाव परीक्षण के 
स्थान पर अन्य विद्युत सामर्थ्य 

परीक्षण दिया गया है । 
19. IS: 4778 - 1968 जूतों के लिए एस प्रो 368 सं० 2 दिसम्बर ( 1 ) खण्ड 1 . 1 . 1 और 2 . 3 का 1 दिसम्बर 1971 
सूती फीतों की विशिष्टि दिनांक 25 1971 

संशोधन किया गया है । 
जनवरी 1969 

( 2 ) खंड 3 . 2 के स्थान पर नया 

खण्ड दिया गया है । 
( 3 ) सारणी 1 और 2 का संशोधन 

किया गया है । 
20. IS: 4807 - 1968 विस्कोस एस पो 2330 सं० 1 जनवरी ( 1 ) खण्ड 6 . 6 . 3. 2 का संशो 1 जनवरी 1972 
रेयन के कते हुए रेषों की परी . दिनांक 14 जून , 1972 

धन किया गया है । 
क्षण पद्धतियाँ 1969 

( 2 ) खंड 6 . 7 1 के स्थान पर नया 

खंड दिया गया है । 


SEC . 3 (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4607 


( 1) 


( 2) 


( 3) 


( 4) 


( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


-पर 


21. IS : 49 8 - 1968 सामान्य एस प्रो 1906 सं० 2 नवम्बर ( पृष्ठ 4, खंड 33) 

नवम्बर 1971 
उपयोग के लिए वैल्डकृत दिनांक 17 मई 1971 IS : 280 - 1972 के स्थान पर 
इस्पात के तार की महीन जाली 1969 

IS : 1521 - 1960 कर लीजिए 
की विशिष्टि 
22. IS: 5281 - 1969 फनी टाथियोन एस मो 918 सं0 1 नवम्बर ( पष्ठ 6, खंड ए 1 - 1 तीसरा 

1 नवम्बर 1971 
पायसगीय तेज द्रव की विशिष्टि दिनांक 7 मार्च 1971 

वाक्य ) - इसको हटा दीजिए । 

1970 
23. IS : 5443 - 1969 रीमरों की एस ओ 1277 * सं० 1 अक्टूबर ( पृष्ठ 5, खंड 5, प्राकृति ) -- 1 अक्टूबर 1971 
सप्लाई सम्बन्धी तकनीकी शर्ते दिनांक 27 मई 1971 

Maximum limit of reasuer diameter--- 
1972 

minimum limit of the hole diameter - O 15 
II के स्थान पर Maximum limit of hole 

diameter - OIS II कर लीजिए । 
* भारतीय मानक संस्था ( प्रमाणन चिह्न ) योजना कार्यों के लिए यह संशोधन 1 जनवरी 1972 से लागू हो जायगा । 


इन भारतीय मानकों की प्रतियों भारतीय मानक संस्था , 9 बहादुरशाह जफर मार्ग , नई दिल्ली - 1 , और उसके शाखा कार्यालयों ( 1 ) 
साधना नूरमोहम्मद शेख मार्ग खानपुर अहमदाबाद - 1 ( 2 ) सिंडीकट बैक बिल्डिंग, गांधीनगर, बंगलौर - 9 ( 3 ) 534, सरदार बल्लभ भाई 
पटेल रोड, बम्बई - 7, ( 4 ) 5, चौंरगी एप्रोच रोड कलकत्ता - 13 ( 5 ) 5 - 9 - 201/ 2 चिरागअली लेन , हैदराबाद - 1 ( 6 ) 1171 
418- बी , सर्वोदय नगर, कानपुर - 5 और ( 7 ) 54 , जनरल पैटर्स रोड, मद्रास - 2 से प्राप्त की जा सकती हैं । 


[ सं सी एम डी ] 
New Delhi , the 23rd Aug. 1972 
S . O . 3307 - In pursusnce of sub - regulation ( 1 ) of Regulation 8 of the Indian Standards Institution ( Certification Marks ) Regulations, 
1955 , a , ain : 1 .1 : froin time to time, the Indian Standards Institution , hereby , notifies that ninety eight licences , particulars of which 
are given in the following schedle , have been renewed during the month of September, 1971 


THE SCHEDULE 


Licence No. 
and dete . 


Period of Validity 


Name & Address of the Licensee 


___ From 


Article /Process covered by the Licence 

and the Relevant 
IS : Designation 


From 


To 


r . 


I- 9 - 1971 


31- 8 - 1972 


CM/ L -13 
3 - 9 - 1956 


2 . CM / L - IS 

13- 9 -1956 


. 


I- 10 - 1971 


30- 9 - 1972 


1 - 10 - 1971 


30 - 9 - 1972 


3. CM/ L - 96 

18 - 9 - 1958 
4 CM/ L -190 

25 - 5 -1960 


Lallubhai Aminchand P . Ltd ., 48 / 50 ( a )Wrought aluminium utensil , 
Kansara Chawl, Bombay - 2. 

Grades SIB , SIC and NS3 
( 6 ) Wrought aluminiurn Utensils 

Grade SIC , Anodized - IS : 21 - 1959 
Bombay Suburban Village Industries The National Flag of India (cotton khadi) 

Association, Flag Section, Gramo- IS :I -1968 
dyagwadi, 38/ 42 , Dockyard Road , 

Bombay - TODD. 
Travancorc Titanium Products Ltd ., Titanium Dioxide for Paints Anatase 
Kochuveli Trivandrum - 7 . 

( Type A ) IS : 4II -1968 
___ The Indian Turpentine & Rosin Co . Rosin ( gum rosin ) IS : 353 - 1955 

Ltd ., P . O . Clutterbuckganj Ba 

reilly . 
Bengal Chemical & Pharmaceutical Naphthalene , Grade I -IS : 539 - 1965 
Works Limited , 6 Ganesh Chunder 

Avenue , Calcutta . 
Indo - Asian Traders (Private Ltd ., Metal clad switches , IS amp., 250 
Nakodar Road Jullunder City. 

volts with HC type fuse base and 
carrier - IS : 4064 :1967 . 


I - 6- 1971 


31 -5 -1972 


16 - 8 -1971 


15 - 2 -1972 


5 . CM/ L - 208 

29 - 7 - 1960 


1 - 10 - 1971 


30 - 9 - 1972 


6. CM/ L -338 

1 - 9 - 1961 


4608 


[PART II -- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 

- - - - - 

- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


3 


CM / L - 431 

18 - 7 - 1962 


1 - 8 - 1971 


8 CM / L - 450 

30 - 8 - 1962 


16 -9 - 1971 


16 - 9 - 1971 


9 CM / L - 451 

30 -8 -1962 
IO CM / L - 500 

14 - 1 - 1963 


I- 9 - 1971 


II CM / L - 538 

30 - 5 - 1963 


1 -9 - 1971 


I2 CM / L - 570 

23 - 8 - 1963 


16 - 9 - 1971 


1 - 4 - 1971 


13 CM /L - 575 

30- 8 - 1963 
14 C -/L -613 

31- 12 - 1963 


31 - 7 - 1972 Indian Oxyger. Ltd ., Electrode Fac - Covered electrodes for metal Arc 

tory Barrackpore - Trunk Road , welding of mild steel of normal 
Khardunk 24 Pargah ; 

penetration type - IS : 81 - 1957 . 
15 -9- 1972 Coimbatore Premier Corporation Pvt. Small Ac and universal electric 

Ltd . , 262, Ayanashi Road ,Coimbatore , motors with class A insulation 
18 . 

IS :996 - 1964. 
15 - 9- 1971 

Do. 

Three phase induction motors upto 
7 . 5 kw . ( Iohp ) only with class 

A insulation — IS : 325- 1961, 
31-8 - 1972 The Aluminium Industries Ltd ., PVC cables only with aluminium 

No. I. Ceramic Factory Road , Kun - conductors , 250 and 650 yolt 
dara (Kerala ). 

grades - IS : 694 (Part I & II) 

1964. 
31- 8 - 1972 The Aluminium Industrics Ltd ., No. 1, Polythene insulated and PVC shcathed 

Cermaic Factory Road , Kundara aluminium - cable - IS : 1996 - 1962. 

(Kerala ). 
15 - 9 - 1972 Radio & Electricals Manufacturing 

Co Ltd ., Pust Bag No. 6 , 
Mysore Road , Bangalore - 26 . 

Voltage Grade Conductor 
Type 
( a ) PVC insulated cables 
(i) Single core (Unsheathed ). 

250 / 440 and 

Copper or 
650 / 1 100 volte 

Aluminium 
( ii) Şingle core (PVC sheathed ) 250 / 400 volts 
( iii) Circular twin , three and four 
corcs (PVC sheathed ). 

250 / 440 and 650 / 1 100 Aluminium 
volts 

only 
( iv ) Flat twin with or without ECC 
(PVC sheathed ). 

650 / I 100 volts 

Copper or 

Aluminium 
(b ) PVC insulaed flexible cords 
( U ) Twin twisted ( unsheathed ) 

250/440 volts Copper only 
( vi) Circular twin , three and four 

Ecors ( PVC sheathed ) . 

IS : 694 ( Part I & II ) — 1964 . 
31- 3 - 1972 Hindustan Stcel Ltd ., Bhilai Stcel Structural steel (fusion welding quality ) 

Plant, Bhilai- 1, Distt. Drug (MP) IS :2062 - 1969 
30 - 9 - 1972 The National Rolling & Steel Ropes (1) Steel wires Ropes for Haulage 

Ltd ., Shamnagar, 24 , Parganas (West Purposes in Mines - IS : 1856 - 1961, 
Bengal). 

(it) Steel Wire Ropes for Winding 

Purposes in Mines — IS : 1855 - 1961 . 
30 -9 - 1972 R . N . Dutta & Co . 30 Bediandanga , Steel conduits for electrical wiring 
2nd Lanc , Calcutta -39 . 

IS :1653 - 1964 . 
15 8 - 1972 Anand Water Meter Mfg , Co. 26 /66 , 15mm and 20 mm sizcy water meter 

Palluruthy Industrial Area , Co - (domestic type) — I $ : 779- 1968 , 

chin - 5 . 
31- 7 - 1972 Steel Rolling Mill of Bengal Ltd , Structural Steel ( standard quality ) 
28 , Strand Road , Calcutta . 

IS : 226 - 1969. 
31 -7 - 1972 

Structural steel ( ordinary quality ) 

IS : 1977 - 1969. 
15 -8 - 1972 Croplifc Chemicals Pvt . Ltd ., 32 , Endrin EC- I $ :1310 -1958 . 

Forcahore Road , Sibpore, Howrah , 
31 - 8 - 1972 Indian Plastics Ltd ., Poisar Bridge Plastic water - closet seats and covers 
Kandiyli, Bombay 67 NB 

IS :2548 - 1967. 
31- 8 - 1972 Mohan Meakin Breweries Ltd ., Malt extract (non - dia ) IS : — 2404 - 1963 . 

Mohan Nagar (Ghaziabad ) . 
15- 9 - 1972 Berco Welding & Electrical Equip - Arc Welding Transformers, single 

ment Mfg . Co., Railwat Road , Operator type , 380 -400 volte 
Jullundur City . 

upto 350 amps. Max . continuous 
hand welding Current – IS : 1851 

1966 . 
31- 8 - 1972 Krishna Steel Industries P . Ltd ., Structural steel (standard quality ) 

29- 30, VaswaniMansion 120 Din IŞ : 226 - 1969 . . 
shaw Vacha Road , Churchgate 
Reclamation . Poat Box No. 93 - A , . 

Bombay. 
31- 8 - 1972 Kolshan Steel Industries P Ltd ., Structural Steel (ordinary quality 

29 - 30 Vagwani Mansion 120, Din IS : 1977 - 1969 . 
shaw Vacha Road , Churchgate 
Reclamation . Post Box No. 93 - A , 
Bombay . 


1 - 10 - 1971 


I - 10 - 1971 


15 CM / L - 622 

23 - 1 - 1964 
16 CM /L -653 

28 - 4 - 1964 


16 - 8 - 1971 


I - 8 - 1971 


1- 8 - 1971 


Do. 


16 -8 -1971 


17 CM / L - 716 

29 - 6 - 1964 
18 CM / L - 717 

29 - 6 - 1964 
19 CM /L - 742 

21- 7 - 1964 
20 CM /L - 752 

31 - 7 - 1964 
21 . . CM /L - 755 

12 - 8 - 1964 
22 CM / L - 760 

21 - 8 - 1964 


1 - 9 - 1971 


1 - 9 - 1971 


16 - 9 - 1971 


1 - 9 - 1971 


23 CM /L -763 

24 -8 - 1964 


1 - 9 - 1971 


24 CM / L - 764 

24 - 8 - 1964 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Sec . 3 (i.) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4609 


- - 


- 


- 


5 


1-9 - 1971 


1 - 9 - 1971 


25 CM /L - 765 

24 - 8 - 1964 
26 CM / L - 766 

24 - 8 - 1964 
27 CM / L - 778 

27 - 8 - 1964 


1 - 9 - 1971 


28 CM / L - 1010 

10 - 2 - 1965 


16 - 8 - 1971 


29 CM /L -1015 

26 - 2 - 1965 


16 - 3 - 1971 


31- 8 - 1972 The Punjab Steel Rolling Mills Old Structural Steel (Standard quality ) 
Station , Baroda . 

IS :226 - 1969. 
31 - 8 - 1972 

Do, 

Structural steel (ordinary quality ) 

IS : 1977- 1969 . 
31- 4 - 1972 Oriental Power Cables Ltd . Cablc - Paper Insulated Lead Sheathed 
nagur, Distt. Kota (Rajasthan ). 

cablcs (With Aluminium conduc 
tors ) for electricity supply upto and 

including 33kv. IS :692 - 1965. 
15 -8 - 1972 The Plant Protection Products Pvt. Endrin EC --- IS : 1310 - 1958 . 

Ltd ., Kodavalur ( S . Rly ) Nellore 

Distt. 
15 -3 - 1972 Capglan Meter ( India) Ltd . Ton Road , Water meters (domestic type) Typc 
(Near Durgapura ), Jaipur . 

A only 
(a ) Dry dial type - 15mm . 20 mm 

25 mm and 40 mm size , 
(6 ) Wet- dial type I5 mm . size 

IS : 779 - 1968 . 
15 - 9 - 1972 The Jindal ( India ) Private Limited , Mild steel tubes IS : 1239(Part 1) 

Delhi Roud , Hissar (Haryana) 1968 . 
15 - 8 - 1972 Dhiman Scientific Works Dhiman Wooden metric scale for general 

Building , Bengali Mohalla , Ambala purposes , rigid , Grade A & B . 
Cantt . 

50 cm . and 100 cm . and foldable 
Grade B , so cm . only - IS : 1480 

1960 . 
15- 8 - 1972 Cyanamid India Ltd . Atul Post Office, Malathion EC _ IS :2567 - 1963, 

Via . Bulsar , 
31 - 8 -1972 The Fort William Co. Ltd ., (Steel (a ) Steel Wire Ropes for winding pur 

Wire & Ropc Division ), 6A , G . T . poses in Mines and 
Road , Korinagar , Distt. Hooghly . (6 ) Steel Wire Ropes for haulago 

purposes in Mines - IS : 1855 - 1961 & 
I $ : 1856 - 1961. 


16 - 9 - 1971 


30 CM / L - IIOI 

16 - 6 - 1965 
31 CM / L - I112 

20 - 7 - 1965 


16 -8 - 1971 


16 -8 -1971 


32 CM / L - 1122 

6 - 8 - 1965 
33 CM /L - 1125 

12 - 8 - 1965 


1- 9 - 1971 


34 CM /L - 1126 

12 -8 - 1965 


1 - 9 - 1971 


35 CM /L -1127 

12 - 8 - 1965 


I - 9 - 1971 


31 - 8 - 1972 Do. 

(a ) Steel Wire Ropes for general En 

gineering purposes and 
(6 ) Kound strand galvanized steel wire 

mopes for shipping purposes - - IS : 

2266 - 1963 & IS : 2581- 1968, 
31- 8 - 1972 Express Cables Private Ltd ., P . O . Hard - drawn stranded aluminium and 
Neora , Distt. Patna, ( Bihar) . 

Ateel- corc aluminium conductors 
for overhead power transmission 

Purposes - IS : 398 -1961. 
15 -8 - 1972 Cyanamid India Ltd ., Atul Post Offiec, Malathion , technical - 1S : 1832 - 1961, 

Via . Bulsar, 


36 CM /L -1136 

3 - 9 - 1965 


16 -8 -1971 


37 CM / L - 1190 

6 - 1 - 1966 
38 CM /L - 1191 

6 - 1 - 1966 
39 CM /L - 1284 

.27 - 6 - 1966 


40 


C .Y1 / L - 1303 

28 - 7 -1966 


41 CM / L - 1320 

30 - 8 - 1966 


1 - 9 - 1971 31- 8 - 1972 Central Insecticides & Fertilizers , BHC Water dispersible Powder Con 

JIO , Industrial Estate , Indore (MP). centrates — IS : 362 - 1962 
1- 9- 1971 31-8 - 1972 Central Insccticides & Fertilizers 110, BHC dusting powders — I $ : 561 -1962 . 

Industrial Estate, Indorc ( M . P .). 
I- 10 - 1971 30 - 9 - 1972 The National Rolling & Steel Ropes Steel Wire Ropea for general Engineering 

Ltd , Shamnagar , 24 Parganas ,West purposes - IS : 2266 -1963. 

Bengal. 
16 -8 - 1971 15 - 8- 1972 The Eveready Flashlight Company, Flashlights - IS : 2083 - 1962 . 

Division of Union Corbide ( India ) 
Ltd ., Mill Road , Aishhagh , Luck 

110W ( U . P . ). 
16 -9 - 1971 15 -8 - 1972 Entoma Insecticides & Agro Chemicals BHC DP - IS :561- 1962 . 

(Kerala ), A - 3 Shed , Industrial 
Estate , Olavakhot, Palghat - 2 

(Kerala ). 
1- 9- 1971 31-8 - 1972 Dhiraj Metal Works, 5, Mill Para, Wrought aluminium Utensils , SIC 
Rajkot- I (Gujarat ). 

gradc - IS :21 - 1959 
I - 9 - 1971 31- 8 - 1972 Central Insecticidcs & Fertilizers Aldrin dusting powders - IS : 1308 - 1958 

110 , Industrial Estate , Indore ( M .P .). 
I -9 - 1971 31- 8 - 1972 Aeron Steel Rolling Mill Pokhuran Structural Steel ( Standard quality ) 

Road , Majiwada Village (Distt. IS : 226 - 1969 

Thana ) . 
1- 9 -1971 31 - 8 - 1972 

Do. 

Structural steel (Ordinary quality) 

IŞ : 1977- 1969. 
16 -9 - 1971 15 -9 - 1972 The Britannia Biscuit Co Ltd ., M . T . Biscuits -- IS :1011- 1968. 

H , Road , Padi, Madras - 50 . 


-42 CM / L - 1497 

23 - 8 - 1967 
43 CM / L - 1500 

25 -8 - 1967 
44 CM / L - 1503 

30 - 8 - 1967 


45 CM / L - 150 .1 

30 -8 - 1967 
46 CM /L - 1514 

15 - 9 - 1967 


4010 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II 


3 


4 


- - - 


I- 10 - 1971 


47 CM /L - ISIS 

15 - 9 - 1967 
48 CM / L - 1539 

6 - 10 - 1967 


1 -9 - 1971 


49 CML/ 1540 

6 - 10 - 1967 


1 -9 - 1971 


1 - 9 - 1971 


16 -9 - 1971 


50 CM / L - 1619 

12 - 1 - 1968 
51 CM /L - 1678 

22 -4 - 1968 
52 CM / L - 1715 

12 - 6 - 1968 


16 -6 - 1971 


16 - 6 - 1977 


Do . 


16 -9 - 1971. 


53 CM / L - 1716 

12 - 6 - 1968 
54 CM /L -1725 

15- 6 - 1968 
55 CM / L - 1752 

22 - 7- 1968 
56 CM /L - 1763 

14 - 8 - 1968 


16 - 7 - 1971 


16 - 8- 1971 


16 - 8 - 1971 


57 CM /L - 1764 

14 - 8 - 1968 
58 CM /L -1772 

29 - 8 - 1968 


1 - 9 - 1971 


31 - 3 - 1972 Dasmesh Engineering Works , 2014 , Water meters, 15 mm . size dry dials, 
Sultanwind Road , Amritsar. 

inferential, Type A - IS : 779 - 1968 
31 -8 - 1972 Neiveli Ceramics & Refractories Ltd ., Flushing cistern for water closets & 

Vadalur (Post), South Arcot urinals (valyeloss siphonic type) 
Distt. ( Tamil Nadu ) 

vitreous china, low - level, 12 . 5 

& 15 litres capacity - IS : 774 - 1964 
31-8 - 1972 Neiveli Ceramics & Refractories Ltd ., Vitreous Sanitary appliances (Uit 

Vardalur (Post), South Arcot Distt. Icons China ) — I $ :2556 ( Pt. II to X ) 
( Tamil Nadu) 

1967 
31- 8 - 1972 Central Insecticides & Fertilizers IIO , Erdrin emulsifiable concentrates 

Industrial Estate , Indore (M .P .) IS : 1310 - 1958 
15- 9 - 1972 Hans Raj Mahajan & Sons, G . T . Hockey sticks-- IS : 829 - 1965 

Road , Jullundur City . 
15 -12 - 1971 Bajrangboli Engg . Co. Pyt. Ltd ., 109 Structural steel ( standard quality ) 

Girish Ghose Road , Bellurmath , IS : 226 - 1969 

Howrah (West Bengal) 
15 - 12- 1971 

Structural steel (ordinary quality ) 

IS : 1977- 1969 
15 -9 - 1972 Hans Raj Mahajan & Sons, G . T . Cricket bats — IS :828 - 1966 

Road , Jullundur City 
15 - 7 - 1972 Glace Kid (India ) Private Ltd ., 22 / 1, Miner, safety leather boots & shoca , 
Gorachand Road , Calcutta - 13 

IS : 1989 - 1967 
15 -8 -1972 National Steel Equipment Co Opposite (a ) Horizontal cylindrical and hori - 

Police Training School, Nalgaum Zontal rectangular steam sterilizer 
Dadar, Bombay - 14 . 

pressure type - IS :3829 - 1966 
steam sterilizers, pressure type 

IS :4510 - 1968 
19 -8 - 1972 National Steel Equipment Co.,Oppo - Water stills for pyrogen - free distilled 

site Police Training school, Nai- water — IS : 3830 - 1970 

gaum Dadar , Bombay - 14 . 
31- 8 - 1972 The Fort William Company Ltd ., Steel Wire for the core of steel- cored 

(Steel Wire & Rope Division ) 6 / A , aluminium conductors for overhead 
G . T . Road , Konnagar (Hooghly ) power transmission Purposes — IS ; 

398 - 1961. 
31 - 8 - 1972 Central Insecticides & Fertilizers , IIO , DDT dusting powders - IŞ : 564- 1961, 

Inlustrial Estate , Indore ( M . P .) 
30 -6 - 1972 Indo - Swedish Pipe Manufacturers Centrifugally Cast (spun ) Iron Waste 

Ltd ., Nawalganj, Tundla Road , and Ventilating pipes, sizes 75 and 
Agra -6 . 

roomm only - IS : 3989 - 1967 
31 -8 - 1972 Central Insecticides & Fertilizers , 110 , Copper oxychloride water dispersible 

Industrial Estate, Indore ( M .P .) powder concentrates — I $ : 1507 - 1966 
31- 8 - 1972 

Do. 

Aldrin Emulsifiable concentrates 

IŞ :1307 - 1958 
15 - 1 - 1972 D & H Seeheron Electrodes Private Covered electrodes for metal Arc 

Ltd ., 44/ 46, Industrial Estate , welding of mild steel normal penetra 
Laxmibai Nagar , Indore2 - 2 ( M . P .) tion type, sizes 2 mm to 6 mm 

only - IS :814 - 1967. 
15 - 3 - 1972 Krishna Miners & Traders 12 , Indus - Endrin emulsifiable concentrares 

trial Area , Jaipur West, Rajasthan IS : 1310 - 1958 . 
15 - 2 - 1972 Jairamdas Udyog (P ) Ltd ., 8th Mile , (a ) Hand tap , ground COAIBC pitch , 

Myxore Road , Kengeri P . O ., (6 ) Machine tap , ground coarse pitch 
Bangalore South , 

Typeg A & C . 
(c) Machine tap , grounds, fine pitch 

IS : 1988 - 1962. 
15 - 8 - 1972 Addison & Co . Ltd ., 4 18 Smith , Reamers - IS :1836 - 1961 

Road , Mount Road , Madras-2. 
15 -8 -1972 The Hulkoti Co . Operative Cattle Compounded Feeds for Cattle -- IS : 

Feed Processing Society Ltd . , 2052 - 1968 
Hulkoti, Taluka , Gadang, Distt . 

Dharwar (Mysore state) 
31 -8 - 1972 Kesoram Cement (Prop . Keşoram Ordinary portland cement - I $ : 269 

Industries & Cotton Mills Ltd .) 1967 
Basantnagar P . O . , P . B . No, 6 , 
Paddapalli Talug, Distt . Karim 
nagar, (AP ) 


1 - 9 - 1971 


59 CM / L - 1861 

12 - 12- 1968 
60 CM / L - 1884 

31- 12 - 1968 


1 -7 - 1971 


1 - 9 - 1971 


61 CM / L - 1947 

31- 3 - 1969 
62 CM / L - 1950 

31 - 3 - 1969 
63 CM / L -2013 

9 - 7 - 1969 


1- 9 - 1971 


16 - 7 - 1971 


16 - 9 - 1971 


64 CM / L - 2020 

15- 7 - 1969 
65 CM /L -2026 

28- 7 - 1969 


16 -8 - 1971 


15 - 8 - 1971 


66 CM / L - 2034 

28 - 7 - 1969 
67 CM /L -2046 


16 -8 - 1971 


68 CM / L - 2049 

18 - 8 - 1969 


1 - 9 - 1971 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


Sec . 3 (ii) ] 
- - - - 


4611 


5 


69 CM /L -2052 

18 - 8 - 1969 


70 CM /L - 2058 

26 - 8 - 1969 


71 CM / L - 2059 

26 - 8 - 1969 


72 


CM / L - 2065 

29 - 8 - 1969 


73 CM / L - 2069 

9 - 9 - 1969 
74 CM / L -2070 

9 - 9 - 1969 


75 CM / L - 2071 

9 - 9 - 1969 
76 CML - 2105 

14 - 10 - 1969 
77 CM / L -2119 

23 - 10 - 1969 


16 -8 - 1971 15 -8 - 1972 The Hulkoti Co. Operative Cattle Poultry Feeds — IS :1374 -1968 

Feed Processiny Society Ltd , 
Hulkoti, Taluka Gadang, Distt. 

Dharwar (Mysore State ) 
J - 9 - 1971 29 - 2 - 1972 Eastern Electrical Company ( P ) Ltd , Three - phase induction motors , 3 . 7kw . 

26 / 22 , Aerodrome Road , Sing ( 5 kp ) , 400 /440 volts with class A 
anallur Post Coimbatore , 5 ( Tamil insulation - IS : 325 - 1961. 

Nadu ) 
1 - 9 - 1971 31-8 - 1972 The Punjab Steel Rolling Mills , Old Hot rolled mild steel mcdium ten 
Station , Baroda , 

sile steel and high yield strength 
steel deformed bars for concretº 

reinforcement — IS : 1139 - 1966. 
1 - 9 - 1971 30 - 9 - 1972 Kohinoor Paint Colour & Varnish Ready mixed paints - IS : 103 - 1962 

Works, 13 , R . B . Rattan Chand , IS : 104 - 1962 , IS : 106 - 1962 , IS , 
The Mall Amritsar. 

123 - 1962 , I $ : 1188 - 1957 . IS : 2074 : 

1962, 
16 - 9 - 1971 15 - 9 - 1972 A . V . J . Wires Pyt . Ltd . Damodar Gar - Mild steel wire for general engineering 
dens, 8 B . T . Road , Belghoria, 

purposes - IS :280 – 1962 
16 - 9 - 1971 15 - 9 - 1972 The Gujarat Iron & Steel Co . Ltd ., Structural steel (standard quality ) 

Ambli Road Station , village Thaltaj IS :226 - 1969 

Ahmedabad . 
16 - 9 - 1971 15 - 9 - 1972 

Do. 

Structural steel (ordinary quality) 

IS : 1977 - 1969 
1 - 9 - 1971 2 ) - 2 - 1972 Pirushotham Gsculla3 Plywood Co . Plywood for general purposc - IS : 303 

Pappinisecri Cannanore Distt . (Kerala ) 1960 
I- 9 - 1971 31- 8 - 1972 Tie Punjab Steel Rolling Mill, Old Cold twisted deformed steel bars for 
Station , Baroda , 

concrete rcinforcement — IS : 1786 

1966 
1 - 9 - 1971 31 -8 - 1972 T . T . (Private ) Ltd ., No. 78 Old Mad - Wrought aluminium and aluminium 

ras Road Dooravaninagar Banga- alloy utensils Gradc -SIC and NS3 
lore- 16 . 

IS :21 - 1959 
16 - 9 - 1971 15 - 3 - 1972 Ashok Traders , Plot No. 129 - C In - DDT WDP - IS : 55 - 1961 

dustrial Estate , Kandivli (West ) 

Bombay -67 . 
16 - 8 - 1971 15 - 2 -1972 The Govt . Precision Instruments Water Meters inferential type A dry 

Factory , Aishbagh Road , Lucknow dial 15 mm only - IS : 779 - 1968 

( U. P.) 
T - 0 - 1971 29 - 2 - 1972 T . T . (Private Ltd . No . 78 , Old Madras Domestic pressure cookers , Capacity : 
Road , Dooravaninagar Bangalorc - 16 . 10 , 7 : 5 , 6 5 , 6 . 0 and 5 - 0 liters 

only - - IS : 2347 - 1966 . 
1 - 9 - 1971 29 - 2 - 1972 Commercial Timber Industries , Sa- Plywood tea - chest battnes — IS : ro 

haranpur Road , Yamunanagar , Distt . 1964 

Ambala (Haryana). 
16 - 0 - 1971 15 - 3 - 1972 The Central India Iron & Steel Com - Structural steel ( standard quality ) 

pany, 38 , Shilnath Camp , Indore , IS :226 - 1969 
16 - 7 - 1971. 15 - 7 - 1972 Avadh Plywood Industries , Bahraich Tea -Chest plywood panels - - IS : 10 
Road , Gonda ( U . P .) 

1964 . 
1 -9 - 1971 31- 8 - 1972 Pampaşar Distillery, India Sugars & Brandies - IS : 4450 - 1967 

Refineries Ltd . , Hospet Bellary 

District , (Mysore State ) 
1 - 9 - 1971 31- 8 - 1972 

Do. 

Whiskies — IS :4449 - 1967 


78 CM / L -2142 

12 - 11 - 1969 


79 


CM / L - 2209 

14 - I - 1970 


80 CM / L - 2250 

10 - 2 - 1970 


81 CM / L - 2307 

16 - 4 - 1970 


82 


CM / L - 2323 

15 - 5 - 1970 


83 CM / L - 2365 

13 - 7 - 1970 
84 CM / L -2371 

22 - 7 - 1970 
85 CM / L - 2383 

5 - 8 - 1970 


86 CM / L - 2384 

5 - 8 - 1970 
87 CM /L -2385 

6 - 8 - 1970 


16 - 8 - 1971 


1 - 9 - 1971 


88 CML- 2386 

10 - 8 - 1970 


16 - 8 - 1071 


89 CM / L - 2387 

10 - 8 -1970 


15 - 8 - 1972 Shree Ram Eng, & Mfg . Industries , Domestic gas stoves for use with 
Pratap Nagar Factory Area , Baroda liuquified 

petroleumgeschme 

IS :4246- 1967 
31 - 8 -1972 Pampagar Distillery , India Sugars & Rectified spirit, Grade I - IS : 323- 1050 

Refineries Ltd ., Hospet Bellary 

Distt. (Mysore State) 
15 -8 - 1972 Highland Metal Industries, village Wrought aluminium and aluminium 

Wally Taluka Bassin , Distt. Thana alloy utensils Grade SIC , 
(Maharashtra) 

IS :21- 1959 
31- 8 -1972 Shah Medical & Surgical Co . Ltd ., Needless , hypodermio . IS :3317 - 1965 

Ajwa Road , Baroda . 
31 - 3 - 1972 Tropical Agrosystems ( P ) Ltd .,520 /28 Endrin EC - 1310 - 1958 

Vanagaram Road , Amur Madras-53. 
31-8 - 1972 Yogiraj Chemical Laboratories Gill Stemp pod Ink IS :393 - 1968 

Road , Millergan ), Ludhiana. 


90 


1 -9 - 1971 


CM / L -2391 

18 - 8 - 1970 


91 CM / L - 2392 

19 - 8 - 1970 


1- 9 - 1971 


92 CM / L -2394 

19 - 8 - 1970 


1-9 - 1971 


4612 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1912/ ASVINA 29 , 1894 


(PART II 


1 - 9 - 1971 


Malathion technical - IS :1832- 1961 


93 CM/ L - 2396 

31 - 8 - 1970 


1.5 - 6 -1972 Excel Industries Ltd ., 184-87, Swami 

Vivekanand Road , Jogeshwari 

Bombay- 60 
15 - 6 - 1972 


I - 9 - 197I 


Do. 


Malathion 


EC - IS : 2567- 1963 


94 CM/ L -2397 

31 - 8 - 1970 
95 CM/ L -2400 

31- 8 - 1971 
96 CM/ L - 2401 

_ I - 9 -1970 


1 - 9 - 1971 


1 -9 - 1971 


30- II - 197I Artee Minerals 15 / 7, Mathura Road , Melathion emulsifiable concentrates 
___ Faridabad ( Haryana ) 

___ IS : 2567 -1963 
31 - 8 - 1972 Andhra Steel Corpn . Ltd ., Malka - Cold twisted deformed steel bass for 
puram Visakhapatnam Port ( A. P. ) concretc -reinforcement -- IS : 1786 

1966. 
15 - 9 - 1972 Mysore Cements Ltd . , Adityapatna, Ordinary portland Cement ---JS : 

Ammasandva P. O . Tumkur Distt . 269 -1967 

(Mysore State ). 
30 -9 - 1972 Dalina Biscuit Pvt . Ltd., Rajpura Biscuits - IS : 1011 -1968 

___ Distt , Patiala. 


16- 9 - 1971 


97 CM/ L - 2403 

9 - 9 - 1970 


98 CM/ L - 2417 

29 - 9 -1970 


1 -10 - 1971 


[ No. CMD/13 : 12 ] 


नई दिल्ली , 23 अगस्त , 1972 


एस० पी० 3307. - - ममय समय पर संशोधित भारतीय मानक संस्था ( प्रमाणन चिह्न ) विनियम 1955 के , विनियम 8 के उप 
विनियम ( 1 ) के अनुसार भारतीय मानक संस्था की ओर से अधिमूचित किया जाता है कि नीचे अनुसूची में विवरण सहित दिए गए 98 
लाइसेंसों का नवीकरण सितम्बर , मास में किया गया है : - - 


अनुसूची 


- 


- 


- 


क्रम सं० लाइसेंस संख्या और 


लाइसेंसधारी का नाम और पता 


वैधता की अवधि 
से तक 


तिथि 


लाइसेंस के अधीन वस्तु ) 
प्रक्रिया और तत्सम्बन्धी 
SI : पद नाम 


- 


- 


- 


___ ( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3) 


( 4 ) 


( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


• 


1 


1 - 9 - 1971 


सी एम / एल - 13 
3 - 9 - 1956 


31 - 8 - 1972 लल्लभाई अमीचन्द प्रा० लि . , ( क ) पिटवां एल्युमिनियम 
48/ 50 कसरा चाल बम्बई - 2 के बर्तन ग्रेड एस प्राइ बी , 

एस आई सी और एन 


( ख ) पिटवां एल्युमिनियम 


2 सी एम / एल - 15 
____ 13 - 9 - 1956 


सी अनोडीकृत 

IS : 21 - 1959 
. -10 - 1971 30 - 9 - 1972 बम्बई सब अर्बन विलेज , इंडस्ट्रीज भारत का राष्ट्रीय ध्वज 

एसोसियेशन , फ्लंग सेक्शन , ( सूती खादी )-- - 
ग्रामोद्योग वाड़ी , 38/ 42 डाक IS : 1 - 1968 
याई रोड , बम्बई - 10 डी०डी० 


3 


सी एम/ एल - 96 
__ 18 - 9 - 1958 


4 


1 - 6 - 1971 


सी एम एल -- 190 
25 - 5 - 1960 


लि० , कोचुवेली , त्रिवेन्द्रम - 7 डायग्राक्माइड अनातासे 

( टाइप ए ) 411 - 1968 
31 - 5 - 1972 दि इलियन टरपेंटाइन एण्ड बरोजा ( गोंद बरोजा ) 

गेजिन क० लि . , डाकघर IS : 553 - 1955 

क्लबटरबकगंज , बरेली । 
- --.- - .. 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


-- 


- - 


- - - - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


SEC. 3 (ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 24, 1894 


4613 


- - - 


( 1) 


( 2 ) 


( 3) 


( 4 ) 


( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


5 


16- 8 - 1971 


सी एम एल - 208 
29 - 7 - 1960 


15 - 2 - 1972 बंगाल केमिकल एण्ड फार्मेस्यटि - नफ्थालीन ग्रेड - 1 

कल वर्क्स, लि०, 6 - गणेशचन्द IS : 539 - 1965 
एवेन्यू , कलकत्ता 


6 


सी एम / एल - 338 
1 - 9 - 1961 


1- 10 - 1071 


30 - 9- 1972 इंडो- एशियन ट्रेडर्स ( प्रा . लि . ) धातु चढे स्विच, 15 एम्पी, 
नकोदर रोड , जलन्धर शहर 250 वोल्ट एच सी टाइप 

के , फ्यज प्राधार तथा 
धारक वाले---- 
IS: 4064 - 1967 


1 - 8 - 1971 


7 सी एम / एल -- 431 

18 - 7 - 1962 


31-- 7-- 1972 इंडियन प्राक्सीजन लि०, इलेष- मामान्य प्रवेश वाले मुनु 

द्रोड फैक्टरी, बैरकपुर ट्रंक रोड, इस्पात की मेटल पार्क 
खरदा - 24 परगना 

येलिंग के लिए नके 

इलेक्ट्रोड - -- 
IS : 814 - 1967 


8 


सी एम / एल - 450 
30 - 8 - 1962 


16 -- 9 - 1971 


15 - 9 - 1972 कोयम्बटूर प्रीमियर कारपोरेशन ए श्रेणी के रोधन लगी 

प्रा . लि . , 262 अविनाशी छोटी एसी और यूनिवर्सल 
रोड , कोयम्बटूर - 18 

बिजली की मोटर - - - 
IS : 996-- 1964 


9 


16 - 9 - 1971 


15 - 9 - 1972 


सी एम / एल - 451 
30 - 8 - 1962 


तीन फेरी प्रेरण मोटर केवल 

7 . 5 कि० या० ( 10 
हा० पा० ) तक , ए श्रेणी 
के रोघन लगे - - 
IS : 325 - 1961 


10 


1 - 9 - 1971 


सी एम / एल - 500 
14 - 1 - 1963 


31 - 8 - 1972 दि एल्यमिनियम इंडस्ट्रीजी लि० , केवल पी वी सी केबल , 

सं० 1, सिरेमिक फैक्टरी एल्युमिनियम चालकों वाले 
रोड, कंडारा ( केरल ) 250 और 650 बोल्ट ग्रेड 

IS : 694 ( भाग 1 और 

2) ---1964 


1 - 9 - 1971 


11 सी एम / एल - 538 

30 - 5 - 1963 


31 - 8 - 1972 दि एल्युमिनियम इंडस्ट्रीज लि . , पोलीथीन रोधित और पी 

सं0 1, सिरेमिक फैक्टरी रोड , वी सी खोल वाले एल्य 
कुंडरा ( केरल ) 

मिनियम केबल --- 
IS : 1596 - 1962 


12 सी एम / एल - 5700 

23 - 8 - 1963 


16- 9- 1961 


15 - 9- 1972 रेडियो एण्ड इलेक्ट्रिकल्स मैन्यु० 

कं . लि ., पोस्ट ब . सं . 6 , 
मसूर रोड , बंगलौर - 26 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


4614 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 14 , 1972 / ASVINA 22 , 1894 


[PART II — 
- -- -- - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


_ 


- - - - - - - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- -- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


(1) 


( 2) 


( 3) 


(4) 


एल्य मिनियम 


1 - 4 - 1971 


13 सी एम / एल - 575 

30 - 8 - 1963 


टाइप 

वोल्टताग्रेड चालक 
( 1 ) इकहरी कोर (बिना खाल 250/ 440 तांबा या 
वाले ) 

और 650/ 

1100 यो एल्युमिनि 
( 2) इकहरी कोर ( पीवीसी 250/ 440 यम 
खोल वाले ) 

घो० 
( 3) गोल दुहरी तीन और चार 250/ 440 केवल 
कोर ( पी वी सी खोल वाले ) और 650/ | एल्युमिव 

1100 वो नियम 
( 4 ) चपटे दुहरी ई सी सी 650/ 1100 तांबा या 
सहित व रहित ( पी वी सी वो 
खोल वाले ) 
( ख ) पी थी सो रोधित लवकीली डोरियां 
( 5 ) दुहरी मरोड़ी (बिना खोल । 
वाली ) 

1250 / 440 केवल तांबा 
( 6 ) गोल ( धुहरी, तीन प्रौर । वो . 
चार कोर ) ( पी वी सी खोल 

वाली )-- - 

IS : 694 ( भाग 1 और 2) --- 1964 
31 - 3 - 1972 हिन्दुस्तान स्टील लिमिटेड, भिलाई संरचना इस्पात ( गलन 

स्टील प्लाट ,भिलाई - 1 जिला बेल्गिर्ग किस्म ) - - 
दुर्ग, ( म०प्र० ) 

IS : 2062 - 1969 
30 - 9 - 1972 दि नेशनल रोलिग एण्ड स्टील ( 1 ) खानों में दुलाई के 

रोप्स लि० , शामनगर , 24 लिए इस्पात के तार के 
परगना ( प० बंगाल ) 

रस्से --- 
IS: 1856 - 1961 
( 2 ) खानों में लिपटाई के 
लिए इस्पात के तार के 

रस्मे - -- 

IS : 1855 - 1969 
30 - 9 - 1972 आर०एन० दत्ता एण्ड के0 , 30, बिजली के तार लगाने के लिए 

बदिया डांगा दूसरीलेन , कल - इस्पात की तार नलियां 
कत्ता - 39 

IS : 1653--1964 
15 - 8 - 1971 प्रानन्द वाटर मीटर मैन्यू 50, 15 मि मी और 20 मिमी 

26/ 66 पल्लरूति इंडस्ट्रियल साइज के पानी के मीटर 
एरिया , कोचीन - 5 

( घरेलू प्रकार के ) -- - 

__ IS : 779 - 1968 
31 - 7 - 1972 स्टील रोलिग मिल्स भाफ बंगाल संरचना इसात ( मानक 
लि० , 28--स्टैड रोड , कलकता, किस्म ) - - 

IS : 226 - 1969 
31 - 7 - 1972 

संरचना इस्पात ( साधारण 
किस्म ) 
IS : 1977 - 1969 


1 - 10- 1971 


14 सी एम / एल - 613 

31 - 12-- 1963 


1 - 10 - 1971 


5 सी एम एल - 622 

23 - 1 --1964 


16 - 8 - 1971 


16 सीएम / एल - 653 

28 - 4 - 1964 


1 - 8 - 1971 


17 सीएम / एल - 716 

29 - 6 - 1964 


1 - 8 - 1971 


18 सी एम एल -717 

28 - 6 - 1964 


SEC. 3 (ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4615 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


( 5 ) 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - -- - 


- - - - - - 


- - - - - - - - - - - - 


16 - 8 - 1971 


19 सी एम / एल - 742 

21 - 7 - 1964 


1 - 9 - 1971 


20 सी एम एल - 752 

31 - 7 -- 1964 


15 - 8 -- 1972 कापलाइफ केमिकल्स प्रा . लि . , एन्ड़िन का पायमनीय तेज 

32, फोरशोर रोड , शिबपुर , द्रव --- 
हावड़ा 

IS : 1310 - 1958 
31 - 8 - 1972 इंडियन प्लास्टिक लि . , पोयसर 5 डब्ल्यू सी को प्लास्टिक 

ब्रिज , कांउठली , बम्बई - 67 की सीट और ढक्कन 
एन० बी० 

IS : 2548 - 1968 


21 


1 - 9 - 1971 


सी एम / एल - 755 
12 - 8 - 1964 


22 


16 - 9 - 1971 


सी एम/ एल - 760 
21 - 8 - 1964 


31 - 8 -- 1972 मोहन मीकिन ब्रवरीज लि० , माल्टा का सत ( प्र - डाय 
मोहन नगर ( गाजियाबाद ) स्टैसी ) 

IS : 2404 - 1963 
15 - 9 - 1971 बर्को वल्डिंग एण्ड इलेक्ट्रिकल एक आपरेटर वाला 

इक्युपमेन्ट मैन्यु० कं०, रेलन वैल्डिग ट्रास्फार्मर - 380 
रोड , जलंधर शहर 

440 वोल्ट , 360 अम्पी 
तक अ ट वल्डिंग धारा -- - 
IS : 185 1 - 1966 


1 - 9 - 1971 


23 सी एम / एल - 763 

24 - 8 - 1964 


31 - 8 - 1972 कृष्णा स्टील इंडस्ट्रीज प्रा०लि , संरचना इस्पात ( मानक 

29 / 30, वासमानी मैशन , किस्म ) - - 
120 , दोनणावाच रोड , चर्चगेट IS : 226 - 1969 
रिफ्लेमेशन पोस्टबाक्स सं० 
93ए - बम्बई 


24 सी एम / एल - 764 

24-- 8 - 1964 


l - 9 - 1971 


31 - 8 - 1972 


संरचना इस्पात ( साधा 

रण किस्म ) - - 
IS : 1977 - 1969 


25 सी एम/ एल - 765 

24 - 8 - 1964 


1 - 9 --1971 


3 1 - 8 --1972 दि पंजाब स्टोल रोलिग मिल्स , संरचना इस्पात ( मानक 

किस्म ) ---- 
IS: 226 - 1969 


1 - 9 - 197131 - 8 - 1972 


26 सी एमएल / - 766 

24 - 8 - 1964 


मरचना इस्पात ( माधा 
रण किस्म ) 
IS : 1977 - 1969 


27 सी एम / एल - 778 

27 -- 8 - 1964 


1 -- 9 - 1971 31 - 3 - 19972 


प्रोरियंटल पावर केबल लि० , 33, कि० वा० तक बिजली 
के वलनगर , जिला कोटा ( राज- मलाई के लिए कागज 
स्थान ) 

रोधित सीसा के खोल 
वाले केबल ( एल्यूमिनियम 
चालकों वाले ) --- 
IS: 692 - 1965 


25 सी एम/ए-180 1 


28 


सी एम / एल - 1010 

10 - 2 - 1965 


16 -- 8 -- 1971 


15 - 8 - 1972 दि प्लाट प्रोटेक्शन प्रॉइष्टस प्रा०न्ड्रिन का पायसनीय तेज 

लि०, कोडवालूर ( दक्षिण द्रव 
रेलव ) नल्लौर जिला 

IS: 1310 - 1958 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


4616 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II 


(1 ) 


(2) 


(3) 


( 4) 


( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


29 सी एम / एल - 1015 

26 - 2 - 1965 


30 सी एम / एल - 1101 

____ 16 - 6 - 1965 


31 सी एम / एल - 1112 

20 - 9 - 1965 


१७ को मार 


32 सी एम / एल - 1122 

6 - 8 - 1965 


16- 3 - 1971 15 - 3- 1972 कैप्सटन मीटर ( इंडिया ) लि० , पानी के मीटर ( धरेल प्रकार 

टोकरोड (निकट दुर्गापुर , के ) केवल टाइप ए 
जयपुर ) 

( क ) शुष्क डायल वाले , 15 

मिमी , 20 मिमी , 25 
मिमी और 40 मिमी 

माइज -- 
( ख ) भीगे 

डायल वाले 
15 मिमी साइज 

IS: 779 - 1968 
16- 9- 1971 15 - 9 - 1972 दि जिंदल ( इडिया ) प्रा . लि० , मृदु इस्पात की नलियां - - 

दिल्ली रोड , हिसार ( हरयाणा ) IS: 1239 ( भाग 1) 

1968 
16 - 8 - 1971 15 - 8 - 1972 धोमान माइंटिफिक वर्स, घोमान मामान्य कार्यों के लिए 

बिल्डिंग, बंगाली मोहल्ला , लकड़ी के सख्त मीटरो 
अम्बाला छावनी 

पैमाने ग्रेड ए और बी 
50 सेमी और 100 
सेमी, और बन्द हो सकते 
वाले ग्रेड बी , केवल 
50 सेमी - -- 

IS : 1480 - 1960 
16 - 8-- 1971 15 - 8 - 1972 माइनामिड इडिया लि . , अतुल मालाथियोन का पायसनीय 

__ डाकघर , बरास्ता बलमर तेज द्रव 

IS : 2567 - 1963 
1 - 8 -- 1971 31 -- 8 - 1972 दि फोर्ट विलियम कं०लि० , ( स्टील ( क ) खानों में लिपटाई के 

वायर एंड रोप्स डिवीजन ) लिए इस्पान के तार के 
6 ए , जीटी रोड, कोनागर, रस्मे - - 
जिला हुगली 

( ख ) खानों में ढलाई के लिए 

इस्पात के तार के रस्से - - 
IS : 1855 - 1961 और 

IS : 1856 - 1961 
1 -- 9 - 197 3 1 - 8 - 1972 

( क ) मामान्य जोनियरी 

कार्यों के लिए इस्पात 

के तार के रस्स , पीर 
( ख ) जहाजरानी कार्यों के 

लिए गोल लौचालन लड़ 
दार , जस्ता , चढ़े इस्पात 
के रस्से 

IS: 2581 - 1968 
1 - 9 - 1971 31 -- 8--1972 एक्सप्रेस केबल प्रा० लि० , डाक - शिरोपरि पावर प्रेषण कार्यों 

घर न्योरा , जिला पटना , के लिए मखन त्रिचे लड़दार 
(बिहार) । 

एल्यमिनियम और 
इस्पात को कोर वाले 
एल्युमिनियम चालक 
IS : 398 - 1961 


33 सी एम / एल - 1125 

12 -- 8 - 1965 


34 सी एम / एल - 1126 

12-- 8 - 1965 


35 सी एम / एल - 1127 

12 - 8 - 1965 


SEC . . ( i) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29, 1894 


4617 


( 2) 


__ ( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


16 - 8 - 1971 


36 मी एम /एल - 1136 

3 - 9 - 1965 
37 मी एम / एल - 1190 

6 - 1 - 1966 


1 - 9 - 1971 


1 -- 9 - 1971 


38 सी एम / एल - 119 1 

6-- 1 - 1966 
39 सी एम /एल - 1284 

27 - 6 - 1966 


1 - 10 - 1971 


15 - 8- 1972 साइनामिड इंडिया लि०, प्रतुल मालाथियोन, तकनीकी -- 

डाकघर, बारास्ता बुलसर , । IS : 1832 - 1961 
31 - 8--1972 सेंट्रल इंसेक्टीसाइड्स एंड फर्टी- बी एच सी जलविसर्जनीय 

लाइजर्स , 110, इंडस्ट्रियल तेज चूर्ण -- 

इस्टेट , इन्दौर ( म०प्र० ) IS : 562 - 1962 
31 - 8 -- 1972 

बी एच सो घूलन पाउडर 

IS: 561 - 1962 
30 - 9 - 1972 दिनेशनल रोलिंग एंडस्टील रोप्स सामान्य इंजीनियरी कार्यों 

लि०, शामनगर , 24 परगना के लिए इसात के तार 
(पं० बंगाल ) । 

के रस्से 

IS : 2266 - 1963 
15 - 8 --1972 दि एवररेडी फ्लैशलाइट कम्पनो, फ्लैश लाइट 

यूनियन कार्बाइड ( इंडिया ) IS: 2083- 1962 
लि० , का डिवीजन ,मिल रोड , 

ऐशबाग, लखनऊ ( उ० प्र० ) । 
15 - 8 -- 1972 एन्टोमा इंसस्टोपाइडस एंड बी एच सो घलन पाउडर 


16-- 8 -- 1971 


40 मी एम / एल - 1303 

28 - 7 - 1966 


41 


16 - 8 - 1971 


सी एम / एल - 1320 

30 - 8 -- 1966 


42 सी एम /एल - 1497 

23 - 8 -- 1967 


25 - 8 - 1967 


44 सी एम / एल - 1503 

30 -- 8 -- 1967 


45 


1 


सी एम / एल - 1504 

30 - 8 - 1967 


शेड, इंडस्ट्रियल इस्टेट, प्रोलव 

क्कोट , पालपाट - 2 ( केरल ) । 
1 - 9 - 1971 31 - 8 - 1972 धोरज मैटल , वर्क्स, 5 मिल पाड़ा , पिटयो , एल्यमिनियम के 

राजकोट - 1 ( गजरात ) । बर्तन, एस प्राइ सो ग्रेड 

_ IS: 21 - 1959 
1 - 9 - 1971 31 - 8 - 1972 मेंट्रल इंसेक्टोसाइडस एंड फर्टी- एल्ड्रिन का घूलन पाउडर -- 

लाइजर्स , 110 - इंडस्ट्रियल IS : 1308 - 1958 

इस्टेट , इन्दोर ( म०प्र० ) 
- 9- 1971 31 - 8- 1972 एरों स्टोल रोलिंग मिल , पोखरन संरचना इस्पात ( मानक 

रोड, माजीवाड़ा गांव , जिला किस्म ) 
थाना ) । 

IS : 226 --1969 
- 9 - 1971 31 - 8 - 1972 

संरचना इस्पात ( साधारण 

किस्म ) 

IS : 1977 - 1969 
16 - 9-- 1971 15 - 9 - 1972 दि ब्रिटैनिया बिस्कुट कं . लि . , बिस्कुट 

एम टी एच रोड, पांडो, मद्रास - IS : 1011 - 1968 

50 । 
1 - 10 - 197131 - 3 - 1972 दसमेश इंजीनियरिंग वर्क्स , पानी के मीटर, 15 मिमी 

2614, सुल्तान विष रोड, साइज शुष्क डायल मन 
ममतसर । 

। मानित टाइप ए 

IS : 778- 1968 
1 - 9 - 1971 31 - 8 - 1972 निवली सिरेमिक एण्ड रिफैक्ट- डब्ल्यू सी और गवालयों 

रीज लि०, बड़ालूर ( डाक ) के लिए पानी की टंकियां 
दक्षिण आर्काट जिला , ( वाल्व रहित तथा साह 
( तमिलनाड ) । 

फन नुमा ) कांचाभ चीनी 


46 सी एम / एल - 1514 

15 - 9 --1967 


47 


सी एम / एल - 1515 
15 - 9 - 1967 


48 सी एम / एल - 1539 

6 - 10 - 1967 


461४ 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


49 


सी एम / एल - 1540 
6 - 10 - 1967 


मिट्टी वाली , नीचे लगने 
वाली , 12 . 5 ; 15 
लीटर समाई वाली - - 

IS : 774 - 1964 
1 - 9 - 1971 31 - 8 - 1972 निवली मिरमिक एण्ड रिफैक्ट- कांचाभ सेनिटरी संसोधन 

रीज लि ०, बड़ालूर ( डाक ) ( चीनी मिट्टी ) -- 
दक्षिण प्रार्काट जिला , IS : 2556 ( भाग 2 से 
( तामिलनाडु ) 

10) - -- 1967 
1 - 9 - 1971 31 - 8-- 1972 सेंट्रल इंसेक्टीसाइड्स एण्ड एन्ड्रिन का पायसनीय तेज 

फर्टीलाइजर्स , 110 - इंडस्ट्रियल द्रव - - 

इस्टेट , इन्दौर (म०प्र० ) । IS : 1310 - 1958 
16 - 6 - 1971 15 - 9 - 1972 हंसराज महाजन एण्ड संस , जीटी हाकी स्टिक 

रोढ़ , जलंधर शहर । 

IS : 829 - 1965 
16 - 6 - 1971 15 - 12 - 1971 बजरंगबली इंजीनियरिंग कं० संरचना इस्पात ( मानक 

प्रा० लि . , 109, गिरीश घोष किस्म ) ---- 
रोड, बेलूरमठ, हावड़ा (प . IS : 226 - 1969 


50 सी एम / एल - 1619 

12- 1 - 1968 


51 सी एम/ एल - 1678 

22 - 4 - 1968 
52 सी एम / एल - 1715 

12 - 6 - 1968 


बंगाल ) । 


16 - 6 - 1971 


53 सी एम / एल - 1716 

12- 6 - 1968 


16 - 9 - 1971 


54 सी एम / एल - 1725 

15 - 6 - 1968 
55 सी एम / एल - 1752 

22 - 7 - 1968 


16 -- 7 - 1971 


16 -- 8 - 1971 


र सी एम / एल - 1763 

14 - 8 - 1968 


15 - 12 - 1971 

संरचना इस्पात ( साधारण 
किस्म ) 

IS : 1977 - 1969 
15 - 9 - 1972 हंसराज महाजन एण्ड संस , क्रिकेट बल्ले -- - 

जी टी रोड, जलंधर शहर । IS : 828 - 1966 
15 -- 7 - 1972 ग्लेस किनु ( इंडिया ) प्रा . लि . , खनिकों के लिए चमडे के 

22 / 1, गोराचन्द रोड, बचाव बूट और जूते - - 
कलकत्ता -- 13 । 

__ IS : 1989 - 1967 
15 - 8 - 1972 नेशनल स्टील इक्विपमेण्ट फ० , ( क ) क्षतिज - बेलनाकार और 

पुलिस ट्रेनिग स्कूल के सामने , 
नाइगाम , दादर -बम्बई -14 । स्टेरीलाइजर , दाब वाले 

IS : 3829 - 1966 
( ख ) क्षतिज बेलनाकार 
उच्च गति माप स्टेरी 
लाइजर , दाब वाले - - 

IS: 4510-- 1968 
15 - 8 - 1972 नेशनल स्टील इक्विपमेण्ट के० , पायरोजन रहित प्रासत 

पुलिस ट्रेनिंग स्कूल के सामने , पानी के लिए भभके -- - 

नाइंगाम , दादर - बम्बई - 14 । IS: 3830 - 1970 
31 - 8 - 1972 दि फोर्ट विलियम कम्पनी लि . , शिरोपरि पावर प्रेषण कार्यो 

( इस्पात के तार और रस्सा के लिए इस्पात की कोर 
विभाग ) 6/ ए, जी टी. रोड, वाले एल्युमिनियम चालकों 
कोनगर ( हुगली ) । 

के लिए इस्पात के तार -.... 
IS : 398 - 1961 


16 - 8 - 1971 


57 सी एम / एल - 1764 

14 -- 8 - 1968 


58 


1 - 9 - 1971 


सी एम / एल -- 1772 
29 - 8 - 1968 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


Src . 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 

4619 
- ..- - - - .. --- - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - . .. - - - - -- - - - -- - - - - -- - -- - - - ----- ----- --- 
( 1 ) ( 2 ) 

( 3 ) ( 4 ) ( 5 ) 

( 6 ) 
59. सी एम / एल - 1861 1 - 9 - 1971 31 - 8 - 1972 सेंट्रल इंसेफ्टीसाइड्स एण्ड डी डी टी धूलन पाउडर 
12- -12 - 1968 

फर्टीलाइर्जस , 110 इंडस्ट्रि - IS : 5 64 - 1961 

यल इस्टेट , इन्दौर ( म०प्र० ) । 
60. सी एम / एल - 1884 1 - 7 - 1971 30 - 6 - 1972 इंडो-स्वीडिश पाइप मैन्यु० , अपसारण ढले ( बने ) हार 
31 - 12 - 1968 

लि० , नवलगंज , टुडला रोड , लोहे के मूल तथा संवातन 
प्रागरा - 6 

पाइप - साइज केवल 75 
और 100 मिमी वाले -- 

IS : 3989 - 1967 
61. सी एम / एल - 1947 1 - 9 - 1971 31 - 8-- 1972 सेंट्रल इंसेक्टीसाइड्स एण्ड ताम्र प्राक्सीक्लोराइड जल 
31 - 3 - 1969 

फर्टीलाइजर्स 110 - इंडस्ट्रियल विसर्जनीय तेज धूर्ण--- 

इस्टेट, इन्दौर ( म०प्र० ) IS: 15 07 - 1966 
62. सी एम / एल - 1950 1 - 9 - 1971 31 - 8 - 1972 

एल्ड्रिन का पायसनीय तेज 
31 - 3 - 1969 

द्रव - - 

IS : 1307 - 1958 
6 3. सी एम / एल - 2013 16-- 7- 1971 15 - 1 - 1972 डी एण्ड एच शीहीरों इलेक्ट्रोड सामान्य प्रवेश वाले मुद्र 
9 - 7 - 1969 

प्रा० लि० , 44 / 46, इंडस्ट्रियल इस्पात की मेटल पार्क 
इस्टेट , लक्ष्मीबाई नगर वल्डिंग के लिए ढंके इलेक् 
इन्दौर - 2 ( म० प्र० ) . ट्रोड, साइज केवल 2 

मिमी से 6 मिमी तक 

IS : 814- 1967 
64. सी एम / एल - 2020 16 - 9 - 1971 15 -- 3 - 1972 कृष्णा माइनर्स एण्ड ट्रेडर्स , 12 - एन्ड्रिन का पायसनीय तेजद्रव 
15 - 7 - 1969 

इंडस्ट्रियल एरिया , जयपुर IS: 1310- 1958 

पश्चिम ( राजस्थान ) 
65. सी एम/ एल - 2026 16- 8- 1971 15 - 2 - 1972 जयरामदास उद्योग ( प्रा . ) लि०, (क ) हैण्ड टैप, चूड़ी कटे, 
28 - 7 - 1969 

8वां मील , मैसूर रोड, कांगरी , मोटी चूड़ी 
डाकघर, बंगलोर- दक्षिण ( ख ) मशीन टैप चड़ी 

फटे, मोटी धूड़ो 
____ टाइप ए और सी 
( ग ) मशीन टैप चूड़ी कटे 
महीन घड़ी 

IS : 1988 - 1962 
66. सी एम/ एल - 2034 15 - 8 -- 1971 15 - 8 - 1972 एडिसन एण्ड कं . लि०, 4 और रीमर 
28 - 7 - 2969 

18, स्मिथ रोड, माउट रोड, IS: 1836 - 1961 

मद्रास - 2 
67. सी एम / एल - 2046 16 - 8 - 1971 15 - 8 - 1972 दि हलकोटी कोअपरेटिव कैटल पशुओं के लिए मिश्रित 
18 - 8 - 1969 

कीड प्रोसेसिंग सोसाइटी लि०, आहार - - 1 
हलकोटी , तालुका गदांग, जिला IS : 2052- 1988 

धारवाड़ ( मैसूर राज्य ) 
68. सी एम / एल - 2049 1 - 9 - 1971 31 - 8 - 1972 केशवराम सीमेंट प्रो० केशोराम साधारण पोर्टलेण्ड सीमेंट 
18 - 8 - 1969 

इंडस्ट्रीज एण्ड काटन मिल्स IS: 269 - 1967 
लि०, बंसतनगर डाकघर ; पो० 
ब० सं० 6, पट्टी पल्ली तालुक , 
जिला गरीमनगर ( प्र० प्र० ) 


4620 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II . 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


( 1) 


( 2) 


( 3) 


( 4 ) 


( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


69. सी एम एल - 2052 

18 - 8 - 1969 


16--8 - 1971 


70. सी एम /एल - 2058 

26 -- 8 - 1969 


1- 9- 1971 


15 - 8- 1972 दि हलकोटी कोआपरेटिव कैटल मुगियों का चुग्गा--- 

फीड प्रोसेसिंग सोसायटी लि ., IS : 1374- 1968 
हलकोटी तालुका गदांग, जिला 

धारवाड़, ( मैसूर राज्य )। 
15 - 8 - 1972 ईस्टर्न इलेक्ट्रिकल कम्पनी ( प्रा . ) तीन फेभी प्रेरण मोटर 3. 7 

लि० , 26 / 22, ऐरोड्राम रोड , कि० वा ( 5 हा पा ) ; 
सिंगनलूर डाकघर, कोयम्बटूर 440/ 440 वोल्ट ए 
- 5 ( तमिलनाडु ) । 

श्रेणी के रोधन लगे --- 
IS: 325- 1961 


1 - 9 - 1971 


71. सी एम / एल - 2059 

26 - 8 - 1969 


31 - 8--1972 दि पंजाब स्टील रोलिंग मिल , ककीट प्रबलन के लिए गर्म 
पुराना स्टेशन बड़ौदा । 

रोल्ड साधारण इस्पात की 
मध्य तनाव वाली और 
उच्च पराभव सामर्थ्य वाली , 
इस्पात की विकृत सरिया 

IS : 1139– 1966 
30 - 9 - 1972 कोहनूर पेंट कलर एण्ड वानिश तैयार मिश्रित रंगरोगन -- 

वर्क्स, 13 - रायबहादुर रतन IS : 103 - 1962; 
चन्द, दि माल, अमृतसर 

IS: 104 - 19625 
IS : 1063 19623 
IS: 103- 1962; 
IS: 1188- -1957% 
IS: 2074 - 1962 


72. सी एम /एल - 2065 

29 - 8 - 1969 


1 - 9 - 1971 


16 - 9-- 1971 


13. सी एम / एल - 2069 

9 - 9 - 1969 


15 - 9- 1972 ए . बी . जे . वायर प्रा . लि ., सामान्य इंजीनियरिंग कार्यों 

दामोदर गार्डन , 8 बी० टी० के लिए मदुस्पात के 
रोड, बेलघोरिया । 

तार - - 

IS : 280 - 1962 
15 - 9 - 1972 दि गुजरात पायरन स्टील कं० संरचना इस्पात (मानक 

लि० , अम्बली रोड स्टेशन , किस्म ) - - 
गांव थाल ताज , महमदाबाद । IS: 226 - 1969 


74. 


16 - 9 - 1971 


सी एम / एल -- 2070 
9 - 9 - 1969 


75 . 


16 - 9 - 1971 


15 - 9 - 1972 


सी एम / एल - 2071 
0 - 9 - 1969 


संरचमा इस्पात ( साधारण 
किस्म .) 
IS: 1977 - 1969 


1 - 9 - 1971 


76. सी एम/ एल - 2108 

14 - 10 - 1969 


29 - 2 - 1972 " पुरूषोतम गोकुलदास प्लाइड सामान्य कार्यों के लिए 

कं०, पप्पीनिसरी, कन्नोर जिला, प्लाइवुड . . 
( केरल ) । 

IS : 303 - 1960 


1 - 9 - 1971 


77. सी एम / एल - 2119 

23 - 10 - 1969 


31 - 8 - 1972 दि पंजाब स्टील रोलिंग मिल, कंक्रीट प्रबलन के लिए ठन्डी 
पुरामा स्टेशन , बड़ौदा । मरोड़ी इस्पात की सरिया 

IS : 1786 - 1966 


SEC. 3(ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4621 


+ 


- 


- 


- 


- 


( 1) 


( 2) 


( 3) 


( 4) 


( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


78. 


1 - 9- 1971 


सी एम / एल - 2142 
12 - 11 - 1969 


79. 


16 - 9 - 1971 


सी एम / एल - 2209 
14- 1 - 1970 


80. सी एम / एल - 2250 

10 -- 2 - 1970 


16 - 8 - 1971 


81. सी एम/ एल - 2307 

16 - 4 - 1970 


1 - 6 - 1971 


31 - 8 - 1972 टी टी ( प्राइवेट ) लि०, सं0 78, पिटयां एल्युमिनियम और 

प्रोल्ड मद्रास रोड, दूरबानी एल्युमिनियम मिश्रधातु के 
नगर, बंगलोर - 16 

बर्तन , ग्रेड - एस प्राई सी 

और एन एस 3 

IS : 21 - 1959 
15 - 9 - 1972 अशोक ट्रेडर्स , प्लाट सं . 129 - डी डी टी जलविसर्जनीय 

सी इंडस्ट्रियल इस्टेट कांडीब्ली धूलन पाउडर 

( पश्चिम ) बम्बई - 67 IS: 56 5 - 1961 
15 - 2- 1972 दि गवर्नमण्ट प्रिसीजन इंस्ट्र मेण्ट पानी के मीटर , अनुमानित 

फैक्ट्री , ऐशबाग रोड , लखनऊ _____ टाइप ए शुष्क डायल वाले 
( उ० प्र० ) 

केवल 15 मिमी --- 

IS : 779 - 1968 
29 - 2 -1972 टी टी ( प्राइवेट ) लि .,सं078, चाय की पेटियों के लिए 

मोल मद्रास रोड, दूरवामी प्लाइपुर की पट्टिया 

मगर, बगलौर - 18 IS: 10 -1984 
28 - 2 - 1972 कमशियल टिम्बर इस्ट्रीज, चाय की पेटियों के लिए 

सहारनपुर रोग, यमुना मगर, प्साइबुर की पेट्रिया 

जिला अम्बाला ( हरयाणा ) IS ( 10 - 1984 
15 - 3- 1972 वि सेंट्रल इडिया पायरन एण्ड सरचना इस्पात (मानक 
स्टील कं०, 38 - शीलनाप कम्प , किस्म ) -- 

___ IS: 226 - 1969 
15- 7- 1972. अवध लाइवुड इंडस्ट्रीज, चाय की पेटियों के प्लाइवुड 
बहराइच रोड, गोंडा ( उ०प्र०) के तख्ते 

IS : 10- 1964 
31 - 8 - 1972 पम्पासर डिस्टलरी इंडिया ब्रांडियां 


82. सी एम / एल - 23231 - 9 - 1871 

16 - 6 - 1970 


83. सी एम/ एल - 2385 

13 - 7 - 1970 


16- 9- 1971 


84. सी एम / एल - 2371 

22 - 7 - 1970 


16 - 7 - 1971 


85. 


1 - 9 - 1971 


सी एम / एल - 2383 
5 - 8 - 1970 


88. सी एम / एल - 2384 

5 - 8 - 1970 


1 - 9- 1971 


87. सी एम /एल - 2385 

6 - 8 - 1970 


16 - 8 - 1971 


होजपेट , बेलारी जिला मैसूर 

राज्य 
31 - 8 - 1972 पम्पासर डिस्ट्रलरी , इंडिया शुगर्स व्हिस्कियां 

एण्ड रिफाइनरीज लि . , होजपेट , 

बेलारी जिला ( मैसूर राज्य ) IS: 4449- 1967 
15 - 8--1972 श्री राम इंजी० एण्ड मन्यु ० द्रवित पैट्रोलियम गैस से 

इंडस्ट्रीज, प्रतापनगर, फैक्टरी चलने वाले घरेलू गैस 
एरिया , बड़ौदा 

स्टोव - - 

IS: 4246 - 1967 
31 - 8 - 1972 पम्पासर डिस्टिलरी , इंडिया परिशोधित स्पिरिट ग्रेड - 1 

शुगर्स एण्ड रिफाइनरीज लि०, IS : 323 - 1959 


88. 


1 - 8 - 1971 


सी एम / एल - 2336 
10 - 8 - 1970 


4622 


[Part II -- 


- - - - - - - - 


- - . . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 

- - .- - - - - - -- -- - -- -- - - - - -- .. - - - 
( 3) ( 4 ) 

( 3 ) 


( 1) 


( 2) 


( 6) 


89 सी एम /एल - 2387 

10 - 8 - 1970 


16- 8 - 1971 


90 सी एम / एल - 2391 

_ 18 - 8 -- 1970 


1- 9- 1971 


91 


सी एम / एल - 2392 
19 - 8-- 1970 


1 - 9 -1971 


15 - 8- 1972 हाईलैंड मेटल इंडस्ट्रीज, गोव पिटयां एल्युमिनियम और 

वालिव , तालुका बसीन , जिला एल्युमिनियम मिश्र धातु 
थाना ( महाराष्ट्र ) 

के बर्तन ग्रेड - एस पाई 

सी 

IS: 21 - 1959 
31 - 8 - 1972 शाह मेडिकल एण्ड सर्जिकल अधोत्वच् ( हाइपोडिरमिक ) 
कं० लि , अजवारोड, बड़ोया सूश्यां - - 

IS: 3317 - 1965 
31- 3- 1972 ट्रापिकल एग्रोसिस्टम्स ( प्रा .) एन्ड्रिन का पायसमीय तेज 

लि ०, 5 20/ 28, धमग्राम रोड, द्रव 

अम्बात्तूर मद्रास - 53 IS : 1310 - 1958 
31 - 8 - 1972 योगिराज केमिकल लेबोरेटरीज , मुहर लगाने के पैड की 
गिल रोड़मिलरगंज, लुधियाना स्याही ---- 

IS : 393 - 1968 
15 - 6 - 1972 एक्सेल इंडस्ट्रीज लि0, 184 - मालाथियोन -तकनीकी 

187, स्वामी विवेकानंद रोड IS : 1832 -1961 

जोगेश्वरी - मम्बई - 60 
15- 6 - 1972 

मालापियोन का पायसनीय 


1 - 9 - 1971 


92 सी एम / एल - 2394 

18 - 8 -1970 


1 - 8 - 1971 


१३ सी एम / एल - 2398 

31 - 8 - 1970 


1 - 9 - 1971 


04 सी एम / एल - 2397 

31 - 8 - 1970 


95 


सी एम / एल - 2400 
31 - 8 - 1971 


1- 9- 1971 


IS : 2587 -- 1983 
30 - 11- 1971 पारसी मिनरल्स , 15/ 7, मथुरा मालाथियोन का पायसनीय 
रोड, फरीदाबाद ( हरयाणा ) तेज द्रव 

IS : 2567 - 1963 


96 सी एम / एल - 2401 1 - 9 - 1971 31 - 8 - 1972 प्रांध्र स्टील कारपोरेशन लि . , केकीट प्रबलन के लिए ठंडी 
1 - 9 - 1971 

मल्कापुरम , विशाखापतनम मरोड़ी इस्पात की विकृत 
बंदरगाह ( मा०प्र०) 

सरिया 

IS : 1786 - 1968 
97 सी एम/ एल - 2403 16- 9 - 1971 15 - 9 - 1972 मैसूर सीमेंट लि०, प्रादित्यपतन साधारण पोर्टलैण्ड सीमेंट 
9 - 9 - 1970 

प्रश्ना समुद्र डाकघर, टुम्कुर IS: 269- 1967 

जिला (मैसूर राज्य ) 
98 सी एम / एल - 2417 1 - 10 - 1971 30 - 9 --1972 डालमिया बिस्कुट प्रा . लि . , बिस्कूट 
29 - 9 - 1970 

राजपुरा , जिला अम्बाला IS : 1011 - 1968 

[ सं० सी एम डी / 13: 12] 
S . 0 . 1308. -.-In pursuance of sub - regulation ( 1 ) of Regulation 8 of the Indian Standards Institution ( Certification Marks ) Re 
gulation , 1955, as amendeal from time to time, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifics that twentytwo linccnces , particulars 
of which are given in the following Schelulc, have been granted during the month of May 1972 authorizing the licenscee to use the 
Standard Marks : 

THB SCHEDULE 


Alidily 


Sl . Licence No. 
No . (CM/ L - ) 


Period of Validity 

From 


Nume and Addres of the Licensee 


to 


Article / Process Covered by the 
Licences and the Relevant 
IS : Designation 


( 1 ) 


( 3 ) 


( 5 ) 


I6- 5 - 1972 


I CM/ L - 3058 

9 - 5 - 1972 


15 - 5 - 1973 


Sree Venkateswara Minerals Pvt. Ltd., 
Sree Venkateswara Minerals Pvt. Ltd ., 

En 

Endrin emulsiflable concentrates 
3 Flaiya Mudali St., Tondiarpet, IS: 1310 - 1958 

Madras - 8I ( Office : 337 Thombu 
Chetty Street, Madras I ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4623 


(I) 


2 


CM / L -3059 
9 - 5 - 1972 


16 -5 - 1972 


15 - 5 - 19734 


3 CM / L - 3060 

9 - 5 - 1972 


16 - 5 - 1972 


15 - 5 - 1973 


Goa Pesticides Pvt. I td . Fulorda , BHC water dispersible powder con 

Margao (Goa) [Office : Chowgule contrace 

House , Marmugao Harbour(Gou )] IS : 562- 1962 
Gujarat Stutc Co -operative Market DDT dusting powdersIS : 564 - 1961 

ing Society Ltd ., Narol, Narol 
Vatwa Road , Ahmedabad (Office ; 
Suhukar Bhavan , Relief Road , 

Ahmedabad - 1) 
Gujarat Stme Cooperative Marketing 2 , 4 - D - rodium technical - 

Society Ltd . , Narol, Narol Vatwa IS : 1488- 1969 
Roasi, Ahmedabad (Office : Seha 
kar Bhavan , Relief Rd., Ahmeda 

back- 1). 
Sphereo Sports, Pvt. Ltd ., 52 , (i) Footballs ( laceless ) 

Gengu Reddy Road , Egmore , (ii) Vollcballs (laceless ) 
Madrus - 8 

IS : 417 - 1969 


4 CM / L - 3061 

9 - 5 - 1972 


16 - 5 - 1972 


19 - 5 - 1973 


5 


CM / L - 3062 
9 - 5 - 1972 


16 - 5 - 1972 


19 - 5 - 1973 


6 


CM / L -3063 
9 - 5 - 1977 


16 - 5 - 1972 


15 - 5 - 1973 


Manncy Industries, Alwal, P . O . Steel windows of 10 HS 12 size 
Bolaram , Secunderaballo , 

only - IS : 1038 - 1968 
(Andhra Pradesh ) [Office : 187 , 
Muhatama Gandhi Road , Sccun 
drabad (Andhra Pradesh ) ] 


7 CM /L - 3064 


16 - 5 - 1972 


19 - 5 - 1973 


8 CM /L -3069 

16 - 5- 1972 


16 - 3- 1972 


19- 5- 1973 


9 CM /L - 3066 

19 - 5 - 1972 


1 -6 - 1972 


31- 5 - 1973 


R . Gac Electrodes Ltd ., Golf Links Covered electrodes for metal arc 
Rd. , Kawdiar , Trivandraum - (Kerala ) wleding of structural steel of the 

size 4 mm only - I $ : 814 - 1970 
Chandigarh Spun Plpo Co., 29, Reinforced concrete , heavy- duty 
Industrial Arca , Chandigarh 

non -pressure plpe, 450 , 600 und 
900 mm size clase NP3 

IS : 458 - 1971 
The Indian Textile Paper Tube Co Warp tubes for use on aluminium 

Ltd ., 19 , Perali Road , Virudhu - plug type spindles - IS : 3625- 1971 

nagar, ( Tamilnadu ) 
T . H . (Overseas ) Traders, 5/ 53, Neta - Tea - cheet metal fittings 
ji Nagar , Calcutta - 40 . 

IS : 10 - 1970 
Shree Laxmi Iron & Steel Worka , Structural steel (standard quality ) 

Pvt. Ltd . , 88 , Rabindra Sarani, IS : 226 - 1969 
Lilyalı , Howrah (Oflice : P 16 , 
Kalakar Street, Calcutta 7) 
Do 

Structural steel (ordinary quality) 

IS : 1977 - 1969 


IO 


CM /L - 3067 
19 - 5 - 1972 


1 - 6 - 1972 


31- 5 - 1973 


II CM / L - 3068 

19 -5 - 1972 


16 - 5 - 1972 


15 -5 - 1973 


12 CM / L - 3069 

19 - 5 - 1972 


16 - 5 - 1972 


15 - 5 - 1973 


13 CM / L -3070 

31- 5 - 1972 


16 -6 - 1972 


15 -6 - 1973 


Devidayal ( Sales ) Pvt. Ltd., Tulsiram BHC dusting powers — IS : 561- 1962 

Gupta Miill,s Estate , Rcay Road , 

Darukhana, Bombay- 10 
Surrendra Sales Bombay Pvt. Ltd ., Structural steel (standard quality) 


14 


CM / L - 3071 
31- 5 - 1972 


1 -6 - 1972 


31 - 5 - 1973 


Mills ) , 2nd Pokhran Road , Maji 
wada Village, Thana (Office : 24 
Baruda Street, Bombay - 9 ) 


1 -6 - 1972 


31 - 5 - 1973 


Do. 


1 -6 - 1972 


31-5 - 1973 


Kumar Iron & Steel (P ) Ltd ., Zoo 

Road , Gauhati (Assam ) 


15 CM / L - 3072 

31 -5 - 1972 
16 CM / L - 3073 

31- 5 - 1972 
CM / L - 3074 

31- 5- 1972 
16 CM /L - 3075 

31- 5 - 1972 


Structural steel (ordinary quality ) 

IS : 1977 - 1969 
Structural Steel (standard quality ) - 

IS : 226 - 1969 
Structural steel!( ordinary quality ) 

IS : 1977 - 1969 
Tca - chest metal fittings IŞ : 10 - 1970 


1 -6 - 1972 


31 - 5 - 1973 


Do. 


16 - 6 - 1972 


15 - 6 - 1973 


Timber & Plywood Co. Ltd , No. 1, 

Nimuk Mahul Road , Kidderpore , 
Calculta -23 (Officer : 6 Mission 
Row , Calcutta - 1 ) 


19 CM / L - 3076 

31 - 5 - 1972 


1 -6 -1972 


31- 5 -1973 


Sree Manjunatha Pulverisers, 62 BHC dusiting powders -- IS :561- 1962 

Industrial subub, Yeshwantapur, 
Bangalore - 22 


4624 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II . 
- - - -- - - - 


- - - 


- - - - - - - - 


- 


- 


(a) 


( 2 ) 


(3 ) 


( 5 ) 


( 4 ) 


20 CM/ L - 3077 

31 - 5-1972 


1-6 - 1972 


31- 5 - 1973 


21 CM/ L - 3078 

31 - 5 -1972 


15- 6 - 1972 


15- 6- 1973 


The Ahmedabad Mfg .& Calico Print- Rigid non -metallic conduits for 

ing Co. Ltd ., Calico " Chemicals & clcctrical installations, 19 mm and 
Plustics Div., Anika Chembur 25 mm sizcs - IS : 2509 - 1963. 
Bombay - 74 ( AS) 
Jevpore Timber & Voneer Mills 
Pvt . Ltd , P . O . Jeypore P . O . & Rly . 
Stn, Naharkatia ( Assam) [ Office : 

Dibrugarh, Disst . Lakhimpur 
( Assam ) ] 
Metal & Alloys Industries Tinsukia (1) Steel whecl borrows, singlewheel 
( Assam ) 

_ type - IS : 2431 -1963 
( 2 ) Steel wheel barrows double 

wheel typc --- IS : 4184 - 1967. 


22 CM/ L - 3079 

31 - 5 - 1972 


16 -6 -1972 


15 -6- 1973 


[ No. CMD / 13 :11] 
एस० प्रो0 3 3 08. - -- समय समय पर संगोधिन भारतीय मानक संस्था ( प्रमाणन चिह न ) विनियम , 1955 के विनियम 8 
के उपविनियम ( 1 ) के अनुसार भारतीय मानक संस्था की ओर से अधिसूचित किया जाता है कि नीचे अनुसूची में जिन 22 लाइसैसों के 
म्यौरे दिए गए हैं , लाइमें पधारियों को मानक सम्बन्धी मुहर लगाने का अधिकार माह मई, 1972 से स्वीकृत किये गये हैं । 


अनुसूची 


- 


- 


- 


कम 
संख्या 


लाइसेंसधारी का नाम और पता 


लाइसेंस संख्या और 

सी एम / एल 


वैधता की अवधि 


वस्तु/ प्रक्रिया पौर 

तत्सम्बन्धी 
ISI पर नाम 


से 


सक 


( 1 ) 


( 2) 


( 3) 


( 4 ) 


( 8 ) 


1 सी एम /एल - 3058 

9 - 5 - 1972 


16- 5 - 1971 


15 - 5 - 1973 श्री वेंकटेश्वर मिनरल्स प्रा० एन्टिन का पायसनीय तेज 

लि०, 3, इलैया मदाली स्ट्रीट , द्रव ---- 
सोन्दि प्रारपेट , मद्रास - 81, IS : 1310 -1958 


2 सी एम /एल - 30593 

9 - 5 - 1971 


3 सी एम / एल - 3060 

9 - 5 - 1972 


स्ट्रीट , मद्रास - 1 ) 
16- 5 - 1972 15 - 5 - 1973 गोवा पेस्टीसाइड्स प्रा . लि ., बी एच सी जल विसर्जनीय 

फटोरडा , मारगांव ( गोवा ) , तेज चर्ण -- 
( कार्यालय : चौगुले हाउस , IS : 562 - 1962 

मरमूगांव बन्दरगाह ( गोवा ) । 
16 - 5 - 1972 15 - 5 - 1973 गजरात राज्य कोग्रापरेटिव मार्के- डी डी टी धुलन पाउडर-- - 

टिंग सोसायटी लि . , नरोल , IS : 564 - 1961 
नरोल वाटवा रोड, अहमदाबाद 
( कार्यालय : साहकार भवन , 

रिलीफ रोड, अहमदाबाद - 1 ) 
16 - 5 - 1972 15 - 5 - 1973 गुजरात राज्य कोआपरेटिव माक - 2, 4- डी , सोडियम तक 

टिंग सोसायटी लि ., नरोल , नीकी 
नरोल बटवा रोड , अहमदा- IS : 1488 - 1969 
बाद (कार्यालय : साहकार 
भवन , रिलीफ रोड, अहमदा 
बाद - 1 ) 


4 सी एम / एल - 3061 

9- 5 - 1972. 


SEC. 3 ( 1 ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4625 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- . 


-. . .. - 


- .. -- - - 


- - 
- - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


( 1 ) 


( 2) 


( 3) 


( 4 ) 


( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


5 सी एम / एल - 3062 

9 - 5 - 1972 


16 - 5 - 1972 


15 - 5 - 1973 सेरियो स्पोट्स प्रा० लि० , 52, ( 1 ) फुटबा ल ( फीता 
रेडी रोड, एगमोर, महाम - 8 रहित ) 

( 2 ) बालीबाल ( फीता 
रहित ) - - 

IS : 417 - 1969 
15 - 5 - 1973 मान्ने इंडस्ट्रीज़, अल्वाल , डाकघर इस्पात की खिड़कियां , 

बेलारूम , मिकन्दराबाद --10 केवल 10 एच एम 12 
( प्रा० प्र० ) (कार्यालय : 187, माइज बाली ---- 
महात्मा गांधी रोड, मिकन्दरा- IS : 1038 - 1968 
बाद ( प्र० प्र० ) । 


16 - 5 -- 1972 


6 सी एम / एल - 3063 

9 - 5 -- 1972 


16 - 5 - 1972 


7 सी एम / एल - 3064 

9 - 5 - 1972 


16 - 5 - 1972 


8 सी एम / एल - 3065 

16 - 5 - 1972 


15 --5 - 1973 पार० गैक इलेक्ट्रोइस वि० गोल्फ मामान्य प्रवेश वाले संरचना 

लिंग रोड, कादियार, त्रिवेन्द्रम - इस्पात की मेटल पार्क 
3 ( केरल ) 

वेल्डिंग के लिये के 
इलैक्ट्रोड, केवल 4 मिमी 
साइज वाले - - 

IS : 914 - 1970 
15 - 5 1973 चंडीगढ़ स्पन पाइप कं0, 29, प्रबलित कंक्रीट के भारी 
इंडस्ट्रियल एरिया , चंडीगढ़ । यूटी वाले विना दाब 

वाले पाइप , 450, 600 
और 900 मिमी साइज 
के , श्रेणी N . P . 

IS : 458 - 1971 
31 - 5 - 1973 दि इंडियन टेक्टसाइल पेपर ट्यब एल्यूमिनियम प्लग टाइप 

क० लि० , 19 गली रोड , तकों के प्रयोग के लिये 
विरूध्र नगर, ( तमिलनाडु ) ताने की नलियां 

___ IS : 3625 - 1971 
31 - 5 - 1973 टी० एच० ( ओवरसीज ) ट्रेडर्स , चाय की पेटियों के धातु के 

5 / 53 नेताजीनगर कनकना - फिटिंग - - 
40 

IS : 10 --- 1970 


1 - 6 - 1972 


9 सी एम /एल - 3066 

19 - 5 - 1972 


10 को एम/एल-30 


10 


1 - 6 -- 1972 


सी एम / एल - 3067 
19-- 5 - 1972 


16 - 5 - 1972 


11 सी एम / एल - 3068 

19 - 5 - 1972 


15 - 5 - 1973 श्री लक्ष्मी आयरन एण्ड स्टीन संरचना इस्पात ( मानक 

वर्स प्रा . लि . , 88, रबीन्द्र , किस्म ) -- 
सारिणी, लिलवा, हावड़ा ( का - IS : 226 -1969 
र्यालय : पी - 16, कलाकार , 
स्ट्रीट , कलकत्ता - 7 ) 


16 - 5 - 1972 


12 सी एम / एल - 3069 

19 - 5 - 1972 


15 - 5 - 1973 

संरचना इस्पात !( साधारण 

किस्म ) 

IS : 1977 - 1969 
15 - 6 - 1973 देवीदयाल ( सेल्स ) प्रा० लि० , बी एच सी धूलन पाउडर 

तुलसी राम गुप्ता मिल्स इस्टेट, IS : 561 - 1962 
रिए रोड, दारूखाना, बम्बई - 10 


13 सी एम / एल - 3070 

31 - 5 - 1972 


16 - 6- 1972 


4626 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART 11 – 


- 


- - 


- - 


.- - . 


- - 


- 


. 


- 


. . 


. 


- . - . 


. 


( 1 ) 


( 2) 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


( 5 ) 


14 सी एम / एल - 3071 

31 - 5 - 1972 


15 सी एम / एल - 3072 

31 - 5 - 1972 


16 


सी एम /एल - 3073 
31 - 5 - 1972 


17 सीएम /एल - 3074 

31 - 5 - 1972 


18 सी एम / एल - 3075 

31 - 5 - 1972 


1 - 6- 1972 31- 5 - 1973 सुरेन्द्र सेल्स बम्बई प्रा . लि . , संरचना इस्पात ( मानक 

( एरो स्टील रोलिंग मिल्स के किस्म ) - - 
लाइपेसधारी ) , दूसरी पोखरन IS : 226 - 1969 
रोड , माजीवाड़ा गांव , थाना , 
( कार्यालय : 24, बड़ौदा स्ट्रीट , 

बम्मई- 9 ) 
1 - 6 -- 1972 31 - 5 - 1973 सुरेन्द्र सेल्स बम्बई प्रा० लि , संरचना इसात ( माधा 

(ऐरो स्टील रोलिंग मिल्म के रण किस्म ) - - 
लाइसे मधारी ) दूसरी पोखरन IS : 1977 - 1969 
रोड, माजोवाडा गांव , थाना 
( कार्यालयः 24, बड़ोदा स्ट्रीट , 

बम्बई - 9 ) 
1 - 6 - 1972 31 - 5 - 1973 कुमार पायरन एण्ड स्टील ( प्रा० ) संरचना इस्पात ( मानक 

लि०, जू रोड, गौहाटी , किस्म ) - - 
( अमम ) 

IS : 226 - 1969 
1 -- 6 - 197231 - 5 - 1973 

संरचना इसात ( माधारण 
किस्म ) - - 

SI : 1977 - 1969 
16 - 6 - 1972 15 - 6 - 1973 टिम्बर एण्ड प्लाईवुड कं . लि . , चाय की पेटियों के लिये 

सं० 1, निमक महल रोड,खिदि- पट्टियां --- 
रपुर , कलकत्ता-- 23, ( कार्या- IS : 10- 1970 
लय : 6 , मिशन रोड , कल 

कत्ता -- 1 ) 
1 - 6 - 1972 31 - 5 - 1973 श्री मंजूनाथ पुल्परा जर्स , 62, बी एच मी धूलन पाउडर --- 

इंडस्ट्रियल सबर्व , यशवंतपुर IS : 561-- 1962 

बंगलौर - 22 
1 - 6 - 1972 31 - 5 - 1973 दि अहमदाबाद मैन्यु० एण्ड केनिको बिज ती संस्थापनों के लिये 
प्रिंटिग कं० लि० , 

अनम्य अधत्विक तार 
केलिको केमिकल्स एण्ड प्लास्टिक नालियां , 19 मिमी और 
डिवीजन , अनिक चम्बर , 25 मिमी साइज की -- 

बम्बई - 74 ( ए एस ) IS : 2509 - 1963 
16- 6 -1972 15 - 6- 1973 जैपुर टिम्बर एण्ड वेनियर मिल्स चाय की पेट्रियों के लिये 

प्रा लि० , डाकघर जैपुर , पट्टियां -- 
तालुका और रेलवे स्टेशन IS : 10 - 1970 
नहरकटिया ( असम ) (कार्यालय : 
डिबरूगड , जिला लखीमपुर , 

( असम ) । 
16 - 6 - 1972 15 - 6 - 1973 मेटल एल्थाय इंडस्ट्रीज , तिन- ( क ) लोहे की कूड़ागाड़ी , 

सुखिया ( असम ) 

एक पहिये वाली 
IS : 2431 - 1963 
( ख ) लोहे को कूड़ागाड़ी , 
वो पहियों वाली.. . 
IS : 4184 --1967 


19 सी एम / एल - 3076 | 

31 - 5 -- 1972 


20 सीएम / एल - 3077 

31 - 5 - 1972 


21 सी एम / एल - 3078 

31 - 5 - 1972 


22 सी एम /एल - 3079 

31 - 5 - 1972 


- - ----- - - ---- - - - - - - - - 


[ सं० सी एम डी / 13 : 11] 


SEC . 3 ( i) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 

4627 
- - - - - - -- - - - - . .. - - - - - - - - - - . . - - - - . 

__ - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - 

New Delht the 4th September 1973 
S . O . 3309 In pursuance of sub - regulation ( 1 ) of regiilation 14 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks ) Regulations 
1955 , as amended subscquently , the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that Certification Marks Linccnce No. CM/ L 
2991 particilars of which are given helow , has been cancelled with cflect from 1 April 1972 as the licensec was not able to operate 
the ISI Certification Marks Scheme: 

THE SCHEDULE 


- - 


- 


- 


Licence No. and date 


Name and Address of the Licen - 


Article /Process covered by the 

licence 


Relevant Indian Standard 


see 


CM/ I - 2991 

24 March 1972 


Alfa Rubbcr Co. Lti., Nagar - PVC insulated ( Heavy duty ) IS : 1554 ( Part I) - 1964 Specifics 
quan , Lanavla , Distt , Pomina electric cables for working tion for PVC insulated (heavy 
(Maharashtra ), having their voltages up to and including duty ) electric cables for working 
Regd. Office at 2nd Floor , I I00 volts 

voltuges upto and including 
Ilimalaya House , 23 Kasturba 

I 100 volts (revised ) 
Gandhi Marg , New Delhi - I . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


-- 


[ No.CMD/55 : 2991 (ET) ] 


नई दिल्ली , 4 सितम्बर, 1972 


एम० प्रो० 3309 : - - बाद में संशोधित भारतीय मानक संस्था प्रमाणन चित्र विनियम, 1955 के विनियम , 14 के उपविनियम ( 4 ) के 
अनसार भारतीय मानक संस्था द्वारा अधिसूचित किया जाता है कि प्रमाणन महर लाइसेंस संख्या सी एम / एल --2991 जिसके ब्यौरे नीचे 
दिये गये हैं, में 1 अप्रैल, 1972 से रद्द किया गया है क्योंकि लाइसेंसधारी भारतीय मानक संस्था ( प्रमाणन् चिल्ल ) योजना को चला सकने 
की स्थिति में नहीं था : 


अनुसूची 


लाइसेंस सं० और 


लाइसेंसधारी का नाम और पता 


तरसम्बन्धी भारतीय मानक 


रद किये गये लाइसेंस के 

अधीन बस्तु / प्रक्रिया 


तिथि 


( 1 ) 


सी एम / एल - 2991 

24 मार्च, 1972 


ऐल्फा रबड़ के लि० नगरगांव, लीना - 1100 वोल्ट तक कार्यकारी IS 155 4 ( भाग 1 ) 195 4 पी वी सी 
वला , जिला पूना ( महाराष्ट्र ) ( कार्या- वोल्टता बाले पी वी सी रोधिन रोधित ( भारी ड्यूटी ) बिजली के 
लय तीसरी मंजिल ) हिमालय ( भारी ड्यटी ) बिजली के केबल , 1100 वोल्ट तक का कार्य 
हाउस , 23 कस्तूरबा गांधी मार्ग , नई केबल । 

कारी वोल्टपा के लिये ( पुनरीक्षित ) 
दिल्ली - 1 . 


[ सं० सी एम डी / 55: 2991 (इट) ] 

New Delhi the 8th September 1072 
$ . 0 . – 3310 In pursuance ofsub - regulation ( 1 ) ofregulation 14 ofthe Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulatics & 
1955 ay amanded from timeto tim . . the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifics that thcliccnce No. CM / L - 1203 particulars ( if a hich 
aregiven blow, has becn cancelled with effect from 16- 8 - 1972 as the party has manufacture ofthe product due to closureofthe factory . 


Liconce No. and 

Date 


Name & Address of the 

____ licensec 


Articlc /Process covered by 
the licence cancelled 


Relevent Indian Standard 


CM/ - 1203 


Condensed Milk 


IS : 166 -1957 


Khira District Co -operative Milk 

Producers Union Ltd. Anand 
( WR) Kaira Distt . Gujarat State . 


INo CMD /55 : 12031 


4628 


[ PART II 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29, 1894 

_ _ _ 
नई दिल्ली 8 सितम्बर, 1972 


- - 


- - - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


एम० प्रो० 3310: - - समय समय पर संशोधित भारतीय मानक संस्था ( प्रमाणन चिन्ह ) विनियम 1955 के विनियम 14 के उप 
विनियम ( 4 ) के अनुसार भारतीय मानक संस्था द्वारा अधिसूचित किया जाता है कि लाइसेंस संख्या सी एम / एल - 1203जिसके ब्यौरे नीचे दिए 
गए हैं , 16 अगस्त 1972 से रद्द कर दिया गया है क्योंकि फैक्टरी बन्द हो जाने के कारण लाइमेंसधारी ने उत्पादन बंद कर दिया है : 


- - - - 


- 


लाइसेंस सं० और तिथि 


लाइसेंसधारी का नाम और पता 


रद्द किए गए लाइसेंस के तत्सम्बन्धी भारतीय मानक 
अधीन वस्तु-प्रक्रिया 


संघनित दूध 


IS : 1166 -- 1957 


सी एम / एल - 1203 

20 - 1 - 1966 


कैरा डिस्ट्रिक्ट कोआपरेटिव , मिल्क प्रोड्- 

यूसर्स यूनियन लि०, प्रानन्द ( पश्चिम 
रेलवे ) कैरा जिला, ( गुजगत ) 


[ सी एम डी / 55 : 1203] 
New Delhi, the 14th Septembar 1972 
9 . 0 . 3311 In pursuance of sub -regulation ( 3 ) of regulation 7 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification 
marks ) Regulations , 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution hereby nol ifics that the marking fee ( s ) pcr unit for various pro 
ducts , details of which are given in the Schedule herto annexed , have been determined and the fee (s ) shall comc into forco 
with effect from the dates shown against each ; 

THE SCHEDULE 


$1. 
No. 


Product /Class of Product 


No. and Title of Relevant Indian 

Standard 


Unit 


Marking Fcc 

per unit 


Date of Effect 


___ 


3 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


I Blackhcart malleable iron castings . I $ : 2108 - 1962 Specification for One tonne Rs. 2 . 00 16 July 1972 

blackheart mallcable iron 

castings . 
2 Sodium bicarbonate . . . IS: 2124 - 1962 Specification for One tonne 20 paise I August 1972 

sodium biarbonate 
- - -- -- --- - - - 

No. CMD/ 13 :10 
नई दिल्ली 14 सितम्बर, 1972 
एस० प्रो० 3311: - - भारतीय मानक संस्था ( प्रमाणन चिन्ह ) विनियम 1955 के विनियम 7 के उपविनियम ( 3 ) के अनुसार 
भारतीय मानक संस्था की ओर से अधिसूचित किया जाता है कि विभिन्न उत्पादों की प्रति इकाई मुहरांकन फीसें जिसके ब्यौरे नीचे अनसूची में दिए 
गए हैं ,निर्धारित की गई हैं और ये फीसें उनके प्रागे दिखाई गई तिथियों से लाग हो जायेंगी : 

अनुसूची 
क्रम उत्पाद / उत्पाद का वर्ग सम्बद्ध भारतीय मानक की पद इकाई प्रति इकाई मुहर लागू होने की तिथि 
संख्या और शीर्षक 

लगाने की फीस 


16 जुलाई , 1972 


1 ब्लैकहार्ट वर्थ्य लोहे की ढली IS: 2108 - 1962 ब्लैकहार्ड वर्ध्य एक मीटरी टन रु० 2 . 00 
वस्तुएं 

सोहे की ढली वस्तुओं की वि 
शिष्टि 


2 सोडियम बाइकाबोर्नेट 


एक मीटरी टन 


20 पैसे 


I : 212 4-- 1962 सोडियम 
बाईकाबोनेट की विशिष्टि 


1 अगस्त , 1972 


[ सं० सी एम ली / 13: 10] 


- 


Sec , 3 ( 1) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 

4629 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - 

- - - - 
S . O . 3312. - In pursuance of sub - regulation ( 1) of Regulation 8 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certifications 
marks ) Regulations, 1955 , as amended from time to time, the Indian Standards Institution , hcreby , notifies that one hundred and 
soyenty six licences , particulars of which are given in the following Schedule , have been renewed during the month of 
Decmber 1971 . 

THE SCHEDULE 

- - - - - - - - 
Si. Licence No. Period of Validity Name & Address ofthe Licensee Articlc /Procces covered by the Licentes 
No, and date From 

And the Relcyant Is : Designation 

- - - - 
3 
I CM / L - 21 I - 12 - 1971 30 - 11- 1972 Barlco Metal Industries Pvt . Ltd ., Wrought aluminium and aluminium alloy 
3 -12 - 1956 

Tulsiram Gupta Mills Estate , sheets , strips und circlcs - IS :21- 1959 . 

Darukhana, Bombay - 10 . 
2 CM / L - 36 16 - 11 - 1071 15 - 11- 1972 The National Insulated Cable Co . of Hard drawn stranded aluminium and steel 
4 - 11 - 1997 

India Limited , Nicco House , Ilarc cored aluminium conductors for overhead 
Street , Calcutta - 1 , 

power transmission purposes — IS : 

398 - 1961. 
3 CM / L -63 I- 12 - 1971 31 - 5 - 1972 The Indian Turpentine & Resin Co . Gum Spirit of turpentinc - IS : 533 - 1954 . 
7 - 2 - 1958 

Limited , P . O . Clutterbuckganj, 

Bareilly (U . P .) 
4 CM / L - 106 16 - 12 - 1977 15 - 12 - 1972 The Mysore Chemical Mfrs. Ltd ., Copper sulphate , teclinical - IS : 261 - 1066 
4 - 11 - 1958 

Chikbanavar P . O . , Distt. Bangalore . 
5 CM / L - 129 I - II - 1971 31- 10 - 1972 The Alkali and Chemical Corpn , of BHC emulsifiable concentrates — IS :632 
22 -6 - 1959 

India Ltd ., 34 , Chuwringhiec , Cal- 1966 . 

cutta - 16 . 
6 CM / L. - 143 I - 1 - 1972 31- 12 - 1972 Travancore Plywood Industries Ltd ; Tea - chest plywood pancis - IS : 10 - 1064 . 
24 -9 - 1959 

Kukkadayu , P . O . Punalur (Keralu ). 
CM /L - 150 I - 11- 1971 31- 10 - 1972 Packing Material Corpn . , Khod Gally , Water proof packing paper - IS : 1308- 1968 
15 - 10 - 1959 

Off Gokhlc Road (South ), Bombay - 28 
8 CM / L - 153 I - II- 1971 31- 10 - 1972 The Alakali & Chemical Corpii , of BHC , technical and refined - IS :560 - 1959 
15 - 10 - 1959 

India Ltd ., 34 , Chowringhce , 

Calcutta - 16 , 
9 CM / L - 205 1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1974 Kaira District Cooperative Milk Milk Powder (whole & skin ) IS : 1165 - 1967 . 
20 - 7 - 1960) 

Producers Union Ltd ., Anand ( W . R . ) 

Kairu District (Gujarat). 
10 CM / L - 224 I - 1 - 1972 31 - 12 - 1972 Swaraj Plywood .Works , P . B . N . 24, Tea - chest plywood panela - IS : 10 - 1064 
16 - 9 - 1960 

Kottayam 

18 -11[ rc square țing G . T . - IS : 916 - 1966 
II CM / L - 243 1- 12 - 1971 30 - 11- 1972 Hindustan Tin Works Pvt. Ltd ., 
23 - 11 - 1960 

Roud , Ghaziabad ( U . P .) 
I2 CM / L - 357 1 - 12- 1971 30 - 11- 1972 Electrical and Mechanical Corpn . Metal clad switches , 15 Amp 250 volts . 
20 - 11 - 1961 

( India ), 1 - 4 , Industrial Area , Sul- with MEM type fuse base and carrier 
lundw City . 

IS :4064- 1967. 
13 CV / L - 361 16 - 12 - 1971 15- 12 - 1972 Muli Vanaspali Mfg C ., Mulinagar , 18 - lilre square tins - IS :916 - 1966 . 
27- 11 - 1961 

Distt . Meerut ( U . P .) 
14 CM / L - 369 I - I - 1972 31 - 12 - 1972 D . C . M , Container Wwks , Najafgarh 18 -litre square tin – IS :916 - 1966 . 
22 - 12 - 1961 

Road , New Delli - Is . 
15 CM / L - 379 1 - 1 - 1972 31 - 12 - 1972 The National Screw and Wire Products Hard - drawn stranded aluminiu and steet 
25- I - 1962 

Limired , Belur , P . U . Belur Mathi, cored aluminium conductors for overhead 
Distt . Howrah . 

power transmission purposes - IS :398 - 1961. 
16 CM / L -381 16 - 12 - 1971 15 - 12 - 1972 Pesticides India , Ulaisagar Road , BIIC dusting powders - IS : 561- 1962. 
9 - 2 - 1962 

Udaipur ( Rajasthan ) . 
17 CM / L - 389 

16 - 11- 1071 15 - 11 - 1072 The National Insulat Cable Co . of PVC cables only ( 250 volts and 650 volts 
5 - 3 - 1962 

India Ltd . Nicco House ,Hare Street , grade ) - IS :694 (Part I & II )- 1964 . 

Calcutta - I , 
18 CM / L - 424 1 - 1 - 1972 31- 12 - 1972 Anam Electricul Mfg . Company, Aluminium conductors , steel reinforced 
30 - ( - 1962 Kajiam , East Godavari Distt, ( A , P .) and all aluminium conductors 

IS : 398 - 1961. 
19 CM / L - 432 1 - 1 - 197231 - 12 - 1972 Victor Cables Corpn ., 7 / 3 , G , T . Road , ( I ) PVC insulated cables of 250 /440 
18 - 7 - 1962 Sahibabad , P . O . Pusonda (Ghaziabad ) and 650 / 1100 Volty grude with 

copper or aluminium conductors . 
( 2 ) PVC insulated flexible cords 250 / 

440 volts grade with copper condu 
ctors only 

IS : 694 (Parts I & II) - 1964 
20 CM / L - 167 16 - 11 - 1971 15 - 11 - 1972 Shalimar Tar Products ( 1935 ) Ltd ,, Bitungen felts for water - proofing & damn 
, 30 - 10 - 1962 

26 , Lake Road , Bandup , 

proofling , Type 3 , Grade 1 & 2 
Bombay - 78 , 

IS : 1322 - 1965. 
21 CM /L -547 16 -12- 1971 15 -12- 1972 Sheet & Metal Industries, 134 , Jessore Tea -chest Metal fittings 
14 -6 - 1963 

Road , Dum Dum , Calcutta - 55 . IS : 10 - 1964 


4630 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART 11 – 


(1) 


1 - 11- 1971 


powders 


31- 10 - 1972 Annapurna Pulverising Mills , Indus - BHC dusting 

trial Estate , Elwy , W . G , Distt (A . P .) IS : 561- 1962 . 


22 CM /L - 554 

26 -6 - 1963 
23 CM /L -562 

11 -7 - 1963 


I-II -1971 


30 -4 - 1972 


16 - 10 - 1971 


15 - 10 - 1972 


24 CM / L - 588 

4 - 10 - 1963 


Do . 

BHC WDPC - 

ⓇIS : 562- 1962. 
The Almedabad Mfg . & Calico ( 1 ) Single core (unsheathed ) PVC insu 
Printing Co . Ltd . , Calico Mills lated cables 250 /440 volts and 650 
Chein . & Plastic , Dvn , , Anik Chein 1 100 volts grade with copper or / 
bur, Bombay -71 . 

aluminium conductors ; and 
( 2 ) Single core (PVC sheathed ) PVC 

insulated cables 250 /440 volts grade 
with copper or aluminium conductorg 
und 650 / I 100 volts grade with copper 
conductor only 
IS : 694 (Parts I & II) - 1964 


16 - 11 - 1971 


15 - 11- 1972 


for water -proofling 


25 CM / L - 591 

21- 10 -1963 


Shalimar Tar Products ( 1935 ) Ltd ., Bitumen (Plastic ) 
26 , Lake Road , Bhandup , Bombay - 71. purposes 

IS : 1580 - 1969 


26 CM /L -592 

21 - 10 - 1963 


16 - 11-1971 


15 -11- 1972 


16 - 12 - 1971 


15- 12- 1972 


*7 quale 


27 CM / L - 596 

30 - 10 -1963 


I - 12 - 1971 


31- 5 - 1972 


28 CM / L -598 

7 - 11 - 1963 


Do, 

Pre -formed flers for expansion joint 

concretç non - cxtruding & resilient 
type 

IS : 1838 - 1961 
Pesticides India , Udaisagar Road , DDT water dispersible powder concen 
Udaipur (Rajasthan ). 

tratcs 

IS :565- 1961. 
Skytone Electricals ( India ), 43, Indus - ( 1 ) PVC cables shcathed and ungheathed 
trial Area , Faridabad (Haryana) . single core with aluminium condu - 

tory 250 /440 or 650 / 1100 volts grade, 
( 2 ) PVC insulated and PVC sheathed 

flator circular twin , three or four 
corc cables with copper or aluminium 
conductors , 250 /440 or 650 / 1100 

volty grade end 
(3 ) Twin twisted , unsheathed flexible 

cords , 250 / 440 volts grade with 

copper conductors only - 
I $ : 694 (Purts I & II ) - 1964 . 


29 CM / L -621 

22 - 1 - 1964 


Do . 


DO . 


30 CM /L -677 

25 - 5 - 1964 
31 CM / L -696 

17 -6 - 1964 


32 CM / L - 788 

25 - 9 - 1964 


16 - 12 - 1971 15 - 12 - 1972 Pesticides India , Udaisagar Road , BHC water dispersible powder con 
Udaipur (Rajasthan ). 

centrates 

IS : 562 - 1962, 
16 - 12 - 1971 15 -12 - 1972 

DDT dusting powders 

IS : 564- 1961 . 
16 - 11 - 1971 15 - II- 1972 The National Insulated Cable Co . of PVC insulated (heavy duty ) electric 

India Ltd ., Shamnagar, 24 Parganas cables for working voltagc8 up to and 
(West Bengal) . 

including I100 volts with copper Or 
aluminium conductors 

IS : 1554 (Part 1)- 1964 . 
16 - 12 - 1971 15 - 12 - 1972 Jamna Auto Industries , E - 46 , Indus - Leaf spring and spring leaf for automobile 

trial Arca , Yamunanagar (Distt , suspension > 
Ambala ). 

IS : 1135 - 1966 . 
I - II - 1971 31- 10 - 1972 Annapurna Pulverising Mills , Indus- Endrin emulsifiable concentrates 

trial Estate , Eluru W . G , Distt. IS : 1310 - 1958 

(A . P.). 
16 -11- 1971 15- 11- 1972 Agarwal Hardware Works Pvt. Ltd ., Structural steel ( standard quality ) tested 
167, Chittaranjan Ayenue , Calcutta . steel rounds upto 1" ( 25 mm ) dia 

and flats up to 1 " x 1 / 4 " to 2 " X 1 /2 " 
(25 mm x 6 mm ) to ( 50 mm x 12 . 7mm ) 
and sections of equivalent area - 
IS : 226 - 1969 


29 CM / L - 799 

12 - 10 - 1964 


2 


CM / L -831 

2 - II - 1964 


I8- II - 1971 


15 -11- 1972 


Do. 


35 CM / L - 832 

2 - 11 - 1964 


Structural steel ( ordinary quality ) , tested 
steel rounds up to 1 " (25mm ) dia and 
flats upto 1 " X 1 / 4 " to 2 " x 1 / 2 " ( 25mm x 
6 mm x 50 mm x 12 . 7 mm ) and sections 
of equivalent arca 
IS : 1977- 1969 


Sec. 3( ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDJA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 

-- - - - - - 
(5 ) 


4631 
- * * , - - 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


L 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


(1) 


(2) 


(6 ) 


36 CM /L - 839 

23 - 11 - 1964 


I - 12 - 1971 


30 - 11- 1972 


37 CM /L - 844 

28 - 11 - 1964 


1- 12 - 1971 30 -11- 1972 


38 CM /L - 845 

28 - 11 - 1964 


1 - 12 - 1971 


30 - 11 - 1972 


Industrial Rurch Corpn , 128, Dyc - baged foundation pan ink (blutc , rcd 
Lattice Bridge Road , Madras -2 

and green ) 

IS : 1221- 1957 
Baranagore Jute Tactory Co ., Ltd., (1) Indian heasian 
284, Maharaja Nand Kumar Road , IS : 2818 - 1964 
Alambazar, Calcuttu - 35 . (2 ) Hessian bags 

IS :3790 - 1966 
Do. 

( 1 ) A twill jute bags - IS : 1943- 1964 
12 ) B - Twill jutc bags - IS :2566 - 1965 
6 ) Heavy Cee jute bags -- IS : 2874 - 1964 
( 1 ) Jutc com sacks - IS : 2875 – 1964 
5 B - twill cloth - IS : 3667 - 1906 
(6 ) Liverpool twill ( L - twill) cloth 

IS :3669 - 1966 
( 7) Jute corn sack cloth 

IS :3750 - 1966 
(8 ) Hcavy cee cloth - IS :3751 - 1966 & 


- 12- 1971 


30 - II - 1972 


» Coupe 


39 CM / L -850 1 

28 - 11 - 1964 
40 CM / L - 851 1 

28- 11- 1964 


1962 *3-5971 3o :1977 Home 


UCIACT. On retrou hear in the 


- 12 - 197 : 


30 - 11- 1972 


Do. 


IS :3794 - 1966 
H-Iowruh Mills Co . Ltd . , 193 / C / A , G . T . ( 1 ) Indian hessian - IS : 2818 - 1964 
Road, South Howrah 

(2 ) Hessian bags - IS : 3790 - 1966 
( 1) A - twill jutc bags IS1943 - 1964 
( 2 ) Heavy cce jute bags- IS : 2874 - 1964 
(3 ) Jutc corn Backs - IS :2875 - 1964 
U B - twill jute bugs - IS : 2566 - 1965 
6 ) Liverpool twill ( L - twill) bags 

IS :3794 - 1966 
(6 ) B - twill cloth -- IS : 3667 - 1966 
G ) Liverpool twill ( L - twill) cloth 

IS : 3668 - 1966 
( 8 ) Jutc corn guck clochy - IS : 3750 - 1966 & 
(9 ) Heavy cee cloth - IS : 3751- 1966 


I- 12 - 1971 


30 - 11- 1972 


41 CM /L - 852 

28 - 11 - 1964 


Budge Bulgc Amalgamited Mills , 

( Unit - Budgc Budge ) 57 , Maulana - 
Azad Road , Budge Budge 


( 1 ) Indian 
( 2 ) Hessian 


h essian - IS : 2818 - 1964 
bags - 18 : 3790 - 1966 


42 CM / L -853 

28 - 11- 1964 


1 


- 12 - 1971. 


30 - 11 - 1972 


Do . 


( I ) A - twill jute bigs - IS : 1943 - 1964 
( 2 ) B - twill jute bugs- - IS : 2566 - 1965 

) IIcavy cce jurc hagy - IS : 2874 - 1964 
G ) B - twill clotlı - [ S : 3067 - 1966 
(5 ) IIcavy cce cloth - IS : 3751 - 1966 
( 1 ) Indian hessian - - IS : 2818 - 1964. & 
( 2 ) Hessian bags - IS : 3790 - 1966 


43 CM 


43 CM / L - 854 

28 - 11 - 1964 


I - 12 - 1971 


30 - II- 1972 


Budge Budge Amilgimited Mills , 
(Unit Delta ), Manikpore , Sankrail, 
Howrah , 


44 CM /L -855 


1- 12 -1971 


30 -ȚI -1972 


Do. 


28 - 11- 1964 


( I ) A - twill jute bags - IS : 1943 - 1964 
( 2 ) B - twill jute bugs - IS : 2874 - 1964 
(3 ) Heavy cce jute bags — IS : 2874 - 1964 
(4 ) B - twill cloth - IS : 3667 - 1966 & 
6 ) Heavy cee cloth - IS : 3751 - 1966 


45 CM / L - 856 


I- 12 - 1971 


30 - II - 1972 


Budge Budge Amalgamatcd Mills , 
(Unit - Chevoit ) Badekalinagar , 
Budge Budge Calcutta 


che se 


( 1 ) Indian 
(2 ) Hossian 


& 


alimentaills, 


He 


hessian - IS : 2818 - 1964 
bags - IS : 3790 - 1966 


46 CM /L -857 

28- 11 - 1964 


1- 12 - 1971 30 -11-1972 


Do . 


( 1 ) A - twill jute bags - IS : 1943- 1964 
(2 ) B - twill jute bags - IS :2566 - 1965 
(3 ) Heavy cee jute bugs - IS : 2874 - 1964 
(4 ) B -twill cloth & - IS :3667- 1966 

( ) Ileavy cee cloth - IS : 37 . 51 - 1966 
( 1 ) Indian heyscan - IS : 2818 - 1964 & 
( 2 ) Hossan bags — IS : 3790 - 1966 


47 CM L - 858 

28 - 11-1964 


I -12 - 1971 


30 -11 - 1972 Auck and Jute Co. Ltd ., 

Jagatdal, 24 Parganas 
31 -5 -1972 

Do. 


CM /L - 859 
28 - 11- 1964 


I- 12 - 1971 


( 1 ) A - twill jute bags - IS : 1943 - 1964 
12 ) B -twill jute bags - IS : 2566 - 1965 
(3 ) Heavy cec jute bags — IS : 2874 - 1964 
( 4 ) Jute corn sacks — IS : 2875 - 1964 
(5 ) B - twill cloth - I $ : 3667 - 1966 
Ő Liverpool (L - twill) cloth – IS : 3668 

1966 


4632 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 

- - - - 

- 


[ PART 11- - 


49 CM / L -860 

28- 11- 1964 


1-12-1971 30-11 -1972 Dalhousie Jute Co . Ltd ., 

Champdany, Distt . Ilooghly 


(7 ) Jute corn sack cloth - - IS : 3750 - 1968 
(8 ) Heavy cee cloth - IS : 3751- 1966 and 
(9 ) Liverpool twill (L -twill ) bags 

IS : 3794 - 1966 
( 1) Inlian hcssjan - IS : 2818 - 1964 

( 2 ) Hessian hags — IS : 3790 - 1966 
( 1 ) Indian heesiun — IS : 2818 - 1964 
( 2 ) IIcesiun bags -- IS : 3790 - 1966 


50 CM / L - 861 

28 - II - 1964 


1 - 12 - 1971 


30 - 11- 1972 Kinnison Jute Mills Co . Ltd , 

Titughur, 24 Parganas 


CM / L - 862 
28- 11 - 1964 


1- 12- 1971 


30 -11 - 1972 


Do. 


( 1 ) A - twill jute bags - IS : 1943- 1964, 

( 2 ) B - iwill jute bags - IS : 2566 - 1965 
(3 ) Heuvy cee jute bagsIS : 2874 - 1964 


52 CMIL-BE 


1-17-1971 30 


I - 12 - 1971 


( 1 ) Indian hessian - IS : 2818 - 1964 & 
( 2 ) Hessian bags - IS : 3790 - 1966 


52 CM / L - 865 

28 - 11 - 1964 
53 CM / L - 866 

28 - 11 - 1964 


30 - 11 - 1972 Northbrook Jute Co . Ltd . , 

Champdany, Distt . Hooghly 
30 - 11- 1972 

Do. 


1- 12 - 1971 


I- 12 - 1971 


54 CM /L - 868 

28 - 11 - 1964 
55 CM /L -871 

28 - 11 - 1964 
56 CM /L - 872 

28 - JI- 1964 


1 :12 - 1971 


30 - 11 - 1972 Union Jute Co , Ltil., 

12 Convent Lane, Calcutta - 15 
30 -11- 1972 The Nudden Mills Co . Ltd ., 

Naihati, 24 Parganas 
30 - 11 - 1972 The N ; idea Mills Co . Ltd. , 

Naihati, 24 Parganas 


( 1) A - twill jute bags — IS : 1943- 1964 
( 2 ) Heavy cee jute bags- IS : 2874 - 1964 
(3 ) Jute corn gacks- IS : 2875 - 1964 
4 ) B -will jute bags — IS : 2566 - 1965 
(5 ) Liverpool twilī ( L - will) bags : 

IS : 3794 - 1960 
(6 ) B -twill cloch - IS : 3667- 1966 
U Liverpool twill ( L -twill ) cloth 

IS : 3668 - 1966 
(8 ) Jute corn sack cloth — IS : 3750 - 1966 & 
( 9 ) I leavy cec cloth - IS : 3751- 1966 
( 1 ) Indian hessian - IS : 2818 - 1964 
( . ) Hessian bags — IS : 3790 - 1966 
( 1 ) Indian hossain - IS : 2818 - 1964 & 
(2 ) Ilessain bugs — IS : 3790- 1966 
( 1 ) A -twill jute bags — 1S : 1943 - 1964 
(2 ) B - twill ji te bags . IS : 2566 - 1964 
( 3 ) Heavy cee jute bags - IS : 2874 - 1964 
( ) Jute corn sacks — IS : 2875 - 1964 
( 5 ) B -twill cloth – IS : 3667 - 1966 
(6 ) Livcipool will ( L -twill) cloth 

IS : 3608 - 1966 
6 ) Sutc corn suck cloth - IS : 3750 - 1966 
( 8 ) IIeavy coc cloth — IS : 3751- 1966 & 
(9 ) Liverpool lwill ( L - lwill) bags 

IS : 3794 - 1966 
( 1) B -twill jute bags — IS : 2566 - 1965 & 
( 2 ) B -twill cloth - IS : 3667 - 1966 


I - 12 - 1971 


57 CM / L - 874 

28 - II - 1964 


58 CM / L -881 

28 - 11 - 1967 
59 CWL- 882 

28 - 11- 1964 


1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 National Co . Ltd ., 

Rajgung , Andul, Howrah 
I - 12 - 1971 30 - 11- 1972 Victoria Jyle Co. Lid ., P . O . 

Telinipara , Distr , Hooghly 
1 - 12 - 1971 30 -11 -972 

Do. 


( I ) Indian hcsrian - IS : 2818 - 1964 & 
(2 ) Hysian bags — IS : 3790 - 1966 
( 1 ) A - twill jute bugy — IS : 1943 - 1964 
12 ) B - twill jute bagy - - IS : 2566 - 1965 
(3 ) Heavy cec juce bags - IS : 2874 - 1964 


(4 ) Jutc corn sacks - IS : 2875 - 1964 
( 5 ) B -twill colth - IS : 3667 - 1966 
(6 ) Liverpool twill ( L - twill) cloth 

IS : 3668 - 1966 
(7 ) Jute corn sack cloth - - IS : 3750 - 1966 
(8 ) Heavy cec cloth - - IS : 3757 - 1966 
(9 ) Liverpool twill ( L -will) bags 

IS : 3794 - 1966 
A -twill jute bags - IS : 1943 -1964 


60 CM /L -884 

28 - 11 - 1964 
61 CM /L -886 

28 - 11- 1964 


A - twill jute bags - IS : 1943 - 1964 


1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11- 1972 Hastings Mill Ltd ., 

Rishru, Hooghly 
1- 12- 1971 30 - 11- 1972 Fort William Co . Ltd ., 

47 / 48, Kaj Narain Roychowdhury 

Ghut Road , Shibpure , Howrah 
1- 12 -1971 30- 11- 1972 Hukamchand Jute Mills Ltd., 

47, Ghoshpara Road , Halisahar 


62 CM / L - 894 

28 - 11 - 1964 


( 1) A - twill jute bags -- IŞ : 1943 - 1964 
( 2 ) B - twill jute bugs — IS : 2566 - 1965 
( 3 ) FIcavy cee jute bags. - IS : 2874 - 1964 
4 ) Jute corn sacks-- 1S : 2875 - 1964 
5 ) Liverpool twill (L - twill) bags 
IS : 3794 - 1966 


Sec. 3 ( 1) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 

- - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - 


4633 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - — 


- 


- - - 


- - 


(6 ) 


(6 ) B - twill cloth -- IS : 3667- 1966 
( 7) Liverpool twill (L - will) cloth 

IS : 3668 - 1966 
(8 ) Jutc com sack cloth - IS : 3750 - 1966 & 
(9 ) Ileavy cce cloth – IS : 3751 - 1966 
B -twill jute bags ~ IS : 2566 - 1965 


63. CM / L - 898 

28 - 11 - 1964 


1-12-1971 


30 -11- 1972 Anglo -India Jute Mills Co. Ltd . 

(Middle Mills ) , Jagatdal , 24 
Parganas 


CM /L - 905 
28 - 11 - 1904 


I - 12 - 1971 30 - II - 1972 Nagalbhai Julc Mills (Division : 

Malatlal Gagalbhai & Co. Pyt. Ltd .) 

Sijberia , P . O . Ulberiu , Howrah 
1 - 12- 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 Caledonian Jute Mills Co . Ltd ., 

18 Mehta Raod , Badekalinagar , 

24 Parganas 
1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11- 1972 The India Jute Co . Ltd ., 

K . S . Scramporc, Houghly 


(1) Indian hessian – IS : 2818- 1964 & 
(2 ) Hessian bags — IS : 3790 - 1966 
B -lwill jute Bags — IS : 2566- 1965 


65. CM /L -906 

28 - 11 - 1964 


66, CM /L -910 

28 - 11- 1964 


( 1 ) A -twill jute bags — IS : 1943 - 1964 
( 2 ) B -twill jute hags - 19 : 2566 - 1965 
(3 ) Ilcavy cée jute baga — IS : 2874 - 1964 
( 4 ) Jute corn sacks- - IS : 2875 -- 1964 
(5 ) B - twill c .loth - IS : 3667 - 1906 
( 6 ) Jutc corn sack cloth — IS : 3750 - 1966 & 
( 7 ) Heavy cce cloth - I6 : 375161966 


1 - 12 - 1971 


30 -II - 1972 Naihati Jute Mills Co ., Ltd . 

P . O . Hazinagar , 24 Parganas 


( 1 ) Indian hessian - IS : 2818 - 1964 
( 2 ) Hessian bags - 18 : 3790 - 1966 


67. CM /L -919 

28 - 11- 1964 
68. CM /L -920 

28 -11- 1964 
69. CM /L -927 

28 - 11 - 1964 


I - 12 - 1971 


30-11 - 1972 


Do. 


B - twill jute bags — IS : 2566 - 1965 


I-12 -1971 


30 - 11- 1972 


Champdany Jute Co . Ltd ., 

(Wellington Juto ) 
G . T , Road , Rishra, Hooghly 


(1) Indlan hessaln ~ IS : 2818- 1964 & 
(2) Hebolan bags - I$ : 3790- 1966 


your countries 


I - 12 - 1971 


70. CM / L -928 

28 - 11 - 1964 


I - 12 - 1971 


71. CM /L - 941 

28 - 11 - 1964 


30 - 11- 1972 Champdany Jute Co . Ltd ., (Wellington I. A - twill Jute bags - IS : 1042 - 1064 
Jute ) G . T . Road, Righra, Hooghly 2 . B - twill jute bags - IS : 2566 - 1965 

3 . Heavy cec jute bago IS : 2874 - 1964 
4 . Trite corn sacks - IS : 2875 - 1964 
5 . Leverpool (I. - twill ) bags — IS : 3794 - 1966 
6 . B -twill cloth - IS : 3667- 1966 
7. Leverpool twill (L - twill ) cloth IS : 3668 

1966 
8 . Jute corn gack cloth — IS : 3750 - 1966 

9 . l Ieavy cee cloth - IS : 3751 - 1966 
30 - 11- 1972 New Central Jute Mills Co, Ltd . (Albion ( 1) Indian hessian - IS : 2818 - 106 .4 & 

Mills ), Budge Budge, 24 Parganas . ( 2 ) Hessian bags - IS : 3790 - 1966 
30 -11-1972 

Do. 

( 1 ) A - twill jute bags - IS : 1943 - 1944 
( 2 ) B -twill jute bags - IS : 2566 - 1965 
( 3 ) IIcavy cec jule bags — IS : 2874 - 1964 
( 4 ) Jute corn sack & - IS : 2875 - 1964 
( 5 ) B - twill cloth - IS : 3667- 1966 
(6 ) Liverpool twill (L - lwill ) cloth I $ : 3668 

1966 
(7 ) Jutc corn rack cloth - IS : 3751 - 1966 
( 8 ) Heavy cec cloth -- IS : 3751- 1966 & 
(9 ) Liverpool (L -twill ) bags — IS : 3794 - 1966 


72. CM / L - 942 

28 - 11 - 1964 


I - 12 - 1971 


73. CM / L - 943 

28 - 11 - 1964 


1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 New Central Jute Mills Co ., Ltd. ( 1) 

(Lothian Mills), Builge Budge, 24 

Parganas . 
I- 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 Ganges Mfg . Co. Lid , Bansberia , I100 

ghly 
I- 12-1971 30 -11- 1972 


Indian hessian - - IS : 2818- 1964 & 
( 2 ) Hessian bags - - I $ : 3790 - 1966 
(1 ) Indian hessian IŞ : 2818 - 1964 & 
( 2 ) Hessian gas - IS : 3790 - 1966 


74 . CM /L - 945 

28 - 11 - 1964 


Do . 


75. CM / L - 946 

28 - 11 - 1964 


( 1 ) A - twill jutc bags — IS : 1943- 1964 
( 2 ) B - twill jute bags - IS : 2566 - 1965 
(3 ) Heavy cee jute bags - IS : 2874 - 1964 
( 1 ) Jute corn sacks - IS : 2875 - 1964 
( 5 ) B - twill cloth - - IS : 3647 - 1966 
(6 ) Liverpool twill (L -twill ) cloth 

IS : 3668- 1966 
(7 ) Jute corn sack cloth - IS : 3750 - 1966 
(8 ) Heavy cce cloh - IS : 3751 – 1966 & 
(9 ) Liverpool twill (L -twill ) bags - IS : 3794 


1966 


- - -- ----- - -- -- 


4634 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART 1] 


Wi 


- 


- 


- 


... 


(3) 


(4) 


76 . CM /L - 947 

28 - 11 - 1964 


1 - 12 - 1971 


30 -11- 1972 The Agarpara Co . Limited , P . O . 

Kamarhatty , 24 Parganas , 


( 1) Indian hessian - IS : 2818 - 1964 & 
( 2 ) Hessian bags - IS : 3790 - 1966 


77 . CM / L - 948 

28 - 11 - 1964 


I - 12 - 1971 


30 -11 - 1972 / 


Do. 


( 1) B - twill jute bags. - IS : 2566 — 1965 
( 2 ) B -twill cloth - IS : 3667 - 1966 


78 . 


I - 12 - 1971 


30 - 11 - 1972 Prahartak Jute Mills Ltd ., Kamarhatty , 

B . T . Road , 24 Parganas. 


( 1 ) A - twill jutc hags - IS : 1943 - 1964 
( 2 ) B - twill jute bags - IS : 2566 - 1965 


CM / L - 958 

28 - II - 1964 
79 . CM /L - 963 

28 - II - 1964 


1 - 12 - 1971 


30 - 11 - 1972 Naffas Chandra Jute Mills Ltd ,, Kanki- 

narrah , 24 Parganas. 


( 1) Indian hessian - IS : 2818 - 1964 & 
(2) Hessian Bags -- IS : 3790 -1966 


Xo . 


CM / L - 964 
28- 11 - 1964 


1- 12- 1971 


30 - 11 - 1972 


Do. 


( 1 ) B - twill jutte bags . IS : 2566 - 1965 & 
( 2 ) Heavy cee jute bags - IS : 2874 - 1964 


16 - 12 - 1971 


19 - 12 - 1972 Hindustan Chandra Pvt. Ltd .,G . T . Road , Wrought aluminium utensils , Grade SIC 

P . O . Pasaunda, Ghaziabad ( U . P .). IS : 21- 1959 


FI- 12 - 1971 


CM /L -975 

30 - 11- 1964 1 
82 , CML-077 

13 - 11 - 1964 
283. CM /L - 981 

21- 12 - 1964 
84. CM / L - 1052 

15 -4 - 1965 
X CML - 1078 

31-5- 1965 


30 - 11- 1972 Industrial Rescarch Corpn ., 128 Latticlo Ferro - gallo tannate fountain pen Ink IS : 220 
Bridge Road , Madras -2 . 

1959 
31- 12 - 1972 In : lustriul Chemicale Ltr ., Sankarnagar, Calcium carbide, quality A - IS : 1040 - 1960 

Talaiynthu (R .S .) Distt, Tirunelveli . 


TWI - 1972 


I - II- 1071 


31- 10 - 1972 


J . K . Steel & Industries Ltd ., Rishra , Hot reolled steel strips (balling )— IS : 1029 
Distt Hooghly . 

1970 
$ bree Hanuman Industries , 65 / A , G . T . Cast iron flushing cisterna (bell type), high 
Road , Liluah , Howrah . 

level, io lltre , 12 . 5 litree and is litres capa 
citios — 13 : 774 - 1964 


16 - 10 - 1971 


15 - 10 - 1972 


16 - 12 - 1971 


15 - 12 - 1972 


86 . CML - 1094 

8 - 6 - 1965 


Trichy SteelRolling Mill Ltd ., Sanathn - , Structural stool (standard quality ). I91226 

nipuram , Golden Rock , Tiruchirapall - 1969 
(Tamil Nadu ) 


Do. 


Structural stool (ordinery quality) — IS : 1977 

1969 


187 . CM /L - 1099 116 - 12 - 1971 115- 12 - 1972 

8 - 6 - 1965 1 
798 . CML - 1120 11516 -11- 1971 31 - 8 - 1972 

4 -5- 1965 
87. CW /L -121, 16 -11- 1976 31-8- 1972 

4 - 5 - 1965 í 


Andhra Steel Corpn ., Ltd ., Malkapuran Structural steel (standard quality )- IS : 226 – 
Visakhapatnam 

1969 


Do. 


Structural steel (ordinary quality ) – IS : 1977 

1969 


Type 


Voltage 
Grade 


Conductor 


a 


16 - 12- 11 


11 - 12 - 1972 Fort Gloster Industries Lti., Bauiria , 

S . E . Railway . ! 


(a ) PVC insulated cables 


29 -9 - 1965 , 


(1) Single core (un 

sheathed ) 
Single core PVC 

sheathcd 
( ii ) Circular tvin 

three and four 250 /440 Alumini 
core (PVC shea - um and only 
1hed ) 

650 /s 100 
Flat twin with or vilto . 
without earth 
continuluy con 
ductor (PVC 

sheathed ) 
( v ) Flat thrce core 

(PVC shcathed ) ) 
b PVC insulated 

flenible coods 
( vi) Twin twisted i 

( vuosheathed ) 
( vii) Parallel twin 

(unsheathed ) 250 / 440 Copper 
(vül) Circular twin , 

only . 
three core and 
four core PVC 

sheathed ) 
IS : 694 — (Part I & 

II) — 1964 


Śrc. 3 (1 ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDÍA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVİNA 29, 1894 


4695 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


91. CM /L - 1182 

15 - 12 - 1965 


116 - 12 - 1971 ( 15 -12 - 1972 


Fort Gloster Industries Ltd ., Baurie ; 

S . E . Rallway . 


PVC insulated (heavy duty ) clectric cables 
for working voltages upto and including 

I100 volts — IS : 1554 (Part - I). - 1964 
Hard - drawn stranded aluminium and steel 

cored aluminium conductors for overhead 
power transmission purpose - IS : 398- 1961 


92. CM / L -1186 

23 - 12 - 1965 


1- 1-1972 


31 - 12 - 1972 Indo Engineering (Kota ) Pyt. Ltd ., 

Industrial Estate, (Kota ) , Rajasthan ) 


I -4 - 1966 


I - II - 1971 


16 -12- 1971 


94. CM / L - 1258 

5 -5 - 1966 
95. CM /L -1273 

31- 5 - 1966 
96 . CM /L - 1275 

31 - 5 - 1966 
97 . CM /L - 1342 

30 - 9 - 1966 


S . E . Railway , 

aluminium conductors) for electricity 
supply to and including 33 KV - IS :692 – 

1965 
30 - 4 - 1972 Geep Flashlight Industries Ltd ., 28 South Flashlights - - IS : 2038 - 1962 

Road , Allahabad (U .P .) 
215-6 - 1972 Kigan Chemicals , 127, Industrial Area, Endrin emulsifiable concentrates — IS : 1310 
Chandigarh . 

1958 
115 -6 -1972 ] Mysore Insecticides Company, (Andhra ) Endrin emulsifiable concentrates — I$ : 1310 
Tedapalli Guntur, District. 

1958 
31 - 12 - 1972 Swan India Pvt. Ltd ., 12 / 1, Mathura Dye based fountain pen inks ( blue, green , 

Road , P . O . Amar Nagar, Faridabad . red ) - IS : 1221- 1957 


16 - 12 - 1971 


I- 1 - 1972 


08 . CM 


I - 12 - 1971 


31- 5 - 1972 


CM / L - 1354 
30 - II- 1966 


I- II - 1971 


31 - 10 - 1972 


99. CM / L - 1374 

28 - 12 - 1966 
100 . CM /L - 1463 

16 - 6 - 1967 ) 


16-11- 1971 


15 -5- 1972 


Skytone Elcctricals ( India ) , 43 Indus - Weatherproof polyethylene insulated 
trial Area , Faridabad , 

taped or untaped , braided and compoun 
dedcables with alurninium conductors , 
single core , 250 / 440 and 650 / 1100 volts 
grade and twin core 250 / 440 volts grade 

IŞ : 3035 (Part II) 1965 
Annapurna Pulverising Mills , Igdus - Parathion emulsifiable concentrates 

trial Estate , Eluu, W .G . Distt.(A .P .) IS : 2129 - 1962 
Grandlay Electrical ( India), Military Thermoplastic insulated weatherproof cables : 

Parade Road , Nirankart Colony , 
Delhi, 

( 1) Polyothylenc insulated , taped , brai 

ded and compounded , twin flat 
with aluminium conductors , 
250 /440 voltage grade and single 
core with aluminium conductors 
of 250 / 440 and 650 / 1100 voltage 

grade 
IS :3035 (Part II) 1966 
( 2 ) Poly _bylene insulated and polyeth 

ylene shcathed with aluminium 
conductors , single core of 650 / 1100 
voltage grade and flat twin core of 

250 / 440 voltage grade 

IS : 3035 ( Part III) 1967 
Fort Gloster Industries Ltd . , Bauria , (a ) Weatherproof PVC insulated and 
S , E , Railway . 

gheathed cables with aluminium 

conductors only of the following types : 
( ) Single Corc , 250 /440 and 650 / 1100 

volts grade 
( 11) Flat twin core, 250 /440 and 650 / 1100 

volts grade 
IS : 3033 (Part I) — 1965 
(6 ) Weatherproof polyethylene insulated 

taped , braided and compound cables 
with aluminium conductore only of 
the following types : 
(*) Single core , 250 /440 and 650 /1100 

yolto grade 
(8 ) Flat twin core, 250 /440 and 650/ 1100 

volts grade 

IS : 3035 ( Part II) 1965 
Keen Pegticides Pvt. Ltd., South Endrin emulsifiable concentrates 

Vazhakulam , Via Alwaye , (Kerala ) IS : 1310 — 1958 
The Fertilizers & Chemicals Travanco - Amonium chloride pure grade Type I 
re Ltd ., Udyogmandal P .O . (Kerala) (for batteries dry cells ) 

IS : 1113 - 1965 
Zeedoneli Industries (P ) Ltd , 15 Tea -chest metal fittings 

Dum Dum Road , Calcutta - 30 . IS : 10 - 1964 


16 - 12 - 1971 


101. CM / L - 1470 

7 - 7 - 1967 


19 - 12 - 1972 


16 - 12 - 1971 


15- 12 - 1972 


102. CM / L - 1473 

13 - 7 - 1967 
103 . CM / L - 1559 

14 - 11- 1967 


16 - II - 1971 15 - 11- 1972 


104 . CM /L - 1562 


16 - 11 - 1971 


15 - 11- 1972 


4636 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 


( PART If — 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- - - - - - 


-- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


(6 ) 


- 


LIE 


113 CM /L- 1649 


105 CM / L - 1569 16 - 12 - 1971 15 - 12 - 1972 Keen Pesticides Pvt Ltd , South Malathion cmulsifiable concentrates 
24 - II - 1967 

Vazhakulam , via Alwayc , (Kerala ) IS :2567- 1963 
106 CM / L - 1578 1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 Jail Chemicals, 14 / 1 Mathura Road , BHC dusting powderg 
I - I2 - 1967 

Faridabad (Haryana) 

IS : 561 - 1962 
107 CM /L - 1591 I- 1 - 1972 31- 12 - 1972 Digvijay Metal Industries , B - 34 ,Pha Door closers ( hydraulically regulated 
21 - 12 - 1967 

se II , Mayapuri, Rewari Line In sizes 1 , 2 and 3 only , 
dustrial Areak New Delhi- 27 

IS :3564 - 1966 
IOS CM / L - 1601 1- 1 - 1972 31 - 12 - 1972 A Maschmijer JI ( India ) Pvt Ltd ., Musk ambrette 
- I - 1968 

Grand Southern Trunk Road Mad - IS :3131- 1965 

ras 44 
19 CM / L - 1602 I - 1 - 1972 31- 12 - 1972 

Do. 

Muşk xylol 
I - I - 1968 

IS :3145 - 1969 
110 CM / L - 1604 1 - 12 - 1971 30 - II- 1972 Jeypore Tea- chest Fitting Mfg . Co , Tea - chest metal fittings > 
5 - I - 1968 

P . O . Jeypore, Naharkatiya Lakhim - IS : 10 - 1964 

pur (Upper Assam ) 
1 CM / L - 1613 I - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 -1972 ) Jai Chemicals , 14 / 1 , Mathura Road , Malathion emulsifiable concentrateam 
9 - 1 - 1968 

Faridabad (Haryana) 

IS 2567- 1963 
112 CM / L - 16421 - 11 - 1971 31 - 10 - 1972 Annapurna Pulverising Mills Industri- Malathion emulsifiablc concentrates 
23 - 2 -1968 

al Estate , Elury , West Godavari Distt IS : 2567 - 1963 
16 - 11 - 1071 15 -11- 1972 Agarwal Hardware Works Pvt Ltd , Cold twisted deformed steel bars for con 
8 - 3 - 1968 

167, Chittaranjan Avenue , Calcutta crete reinforcement 

IS : 1786 - 1966 
1 CM / L - 1700 16 - 12 - 1971 15- 12 - 1972 Pesticideds India , Uaisagar Road , Organo mercurial dry secd dressing 
17 - 5- 1968 

Udalpur (Rajasthan ) 

formulations 

IS :3284 - 1965 
115 CM /L - 1719 16 -12- 1971 

16 - 12 -1971 I 

15- 12 -1972) Amrit Banaspati Co Ltd , G . T . Road , 18 - litre square tins 
12 -6 - 1968 

Ghaziabad 

IS :916 - 1966 
116 CM / L - 1788 1 - 10 - 1971 30 -9 - 1972 The Esso Standard Inc. , Esgo Buil- Hexane food grade- - 
6 - 9 - 1968 

ding, 17 Jamshedji Tata Road , IS : 3470 - 1966 

Bombay- l . 
11 CM / L - 1921 I - II - 1971 31- 10 - 1972 Motilal Pesticides India , Maşani-Delhi BHC dusting powders 
· 25 - 10 - 1968 

Road , Mathura ( U . P .) 

IS :561- 1962 
118 CM / L - 1830 16 -11- 1971 15 -5 - 1972 Angons Electro Mechanical Works, Three - phase squirrel CACC Inductio o 
II- I 

Agadi Industrial Estate, Khot Road , motors 0 . 37 kW ( 0 . 5 hp ) ; 0 . 55 kW 
Subash Nagar , Jogeshwari ( East) (0 . 75 hp ), 0 . 75 kW ( 1 hp) , I I kW 
Bombay - 60 . 

( 1 , 5 hp ) , I 5 kW ( 2 hp ) and 2 . 2 kW 
(3 hp ), with class A insulation 

IS :325 - 1961 
TTO CM / L - 1840 I - 12 - 1971 30 - 11- 1972 Indiclay , Plot No, 2 , Udyog Nagar , Malathion emulsifiable concentrates — 
22 - 11 - 1968 

Goregaon , Bombay -62 

IS 2567- 1963 
120 CM /L - 18411 -12- 1971 30 - 11- 1972 

Do. 

BHC water dispersible powder concentra 
22 - II- 1968 

teg 

IS 562 - 1962 
at CM / L - 1842 I - 12 - 1971 30 - 11- 1972 The Kerala Electrical and Allied Three phase induction motora 2 . 2 W 
25- 11 - 1968 

Engg Company Ltd . , Kanjiracode, (3hp ) to 7 , 5 kW ( 10 hp ) with class 
Kundara (Kerala), 

A insulation 

IS :325- 1961 
12 CM / L - 1843 I - 12 - 1971 30 - II - 1972 Indiclay , Plot No. 2 Udyog Nagar , Copper oxychloride water dispersible 
27 - 11- 1968 ) 

Goregaon Bombay - 62 

powder oncentrates — 

IS :1507- 1968 
129 CM / L -1853 1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 Indiclay , Plot No. 2 , Udyog Nagar, Endrin emulsifiable concentrateg 
6 - 12 - 1968 

S . V . Road , Goregaon Bombay -62 IS : 1310 - 1958 
124 CM / L - 1854 16 - 12 -1971 15 - 12 - 1972 Travancore Electro Chemical Indus - Calcium carbide, technical quality A & B 
6 - 12 - 1968 

trics , Limited , ChingavanamP. O ., IS : 1040 - 1960 

Distt Kottayam (Kerala ) 
125 CM / L - 1877 16 - 12 - 1971 15 - 12 - 1972 Cement Waterproofing of India , 2 Integral ctment water -proofing compound 
23- 12 - 1968 

Prince Anwar Shah Road , Calcut- pormal sitting 
ta -33 

IS : 2645 - 1964 
126 CM / L - 1878 I - 1 - 1972 31- 12 - 1972 Camphor & Allied Products , Ltd . , Camphor technical grade, 2 , 
27 - 12 - 1968 

P . O . Clutter buckgan ), Barcilly IS :3584 -1966 

( U. P. ) . 
127 CM / L - 1881 F - 1 - 1972 31- 12 - 1972 EMC Sangam Works , GT, Road , Hard - drawn stranded aluminium and 
30 - 12 - 1968 

Allahabad (U .P .) 

steel- cored aluminium conductors for 
overhead power transmission purposes 
IS :398 - 1961 


Sec. 3(il) ] 


4037 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 
- - - - - - - - - - -- - 


- - - - - - 


1- 12 - 1971 


128. CM /L - 1902 

23 - 1 - 1969 
129 . CM / L - 1936 

17 - 3 - 1969 


1- 1- 1972 


1-12 -1971 


130 . CM / L -2014 

9 - 7 - 1969 
131 . CM / L - 2018 

11- 7 - 1969 
132 . CM / L - 2076 

22 - 9 - 1969 


I- 12 -1971 


I- II-1971 


30 - 11- 1972 Artee Minerals , 15 /7, Mathura Road , BHC dusting powders — IS : 561- 1962 . 

l uridubad (Haryana ). 
31- 12 - 1972 Adrian Plywood Industries (P ) Ltd ., Tea-chest plywood panels - IS : 10 -1964. 

Padivattom , Edappally P . O ., Erna 

kulam Distt. (Kerala ). 
30 -11- 1972 Indiclay, Plot No. 2 Udyog Nagar, DDT water dispersible powder concentrates — 

S . V . Road , Goregaon , Bombay -62 . IS : 565 - 1961. 
30 - 11- 1972 Jai Chemical , 14 / 1 Mathura Road , Endrin emulsifiable concentrater — IS : 1310 
Faridabad (Haryana). 

1958 . 
31- 10 - 1972 Annapurna Pulverising Mills , Indus- Copper oxychloride water dispersible powder 

trial Estate , Eluru , W .G . Distt. concentrates - IS : 1507 - 1966 . 

( A . P .). 
31- 12 - 1972 Industrial Minerals & Chemicals Co Aldrin emulsifiable concentrates — IS : 1307 

Pvt Ltd , Kurla Murol Road, Chakala 1958 . 

Andheri, Bombay - 58 . 
15 - 12 - 1972 Unique Industries, Nadiad - Petlad , All aluminium conductors and ACSR con 

Near Canal, Nadiad , Distt . Kajra , ductors - IS : 398 - 1961. 

(Gujarat). 
15 - 4 - 1972 Hindustan Sanitaryware & Industries Flushing cisterns for water closctp and 

Limited , Bahadurgarh , Distt. Roh - urinals (valveless siphonic type ), vitreous 
tak . 

china - - IS : 774 - 1964 . 


I - I - 1972 


133 . CM / L -2084 

30 - 9 - 1969 


134. CM / L - 2097 

30 -9 - 1969 


16 - 12 - 1971 


1 6 -10 - 1971 


135 . CM / L -2115 

16 - 10 - 1969 


136 . CM /L -2116 

16 - 10 - 1969 


16 - 10 - 1971 


15 - 10 - 1972 Hindustan Sanitaryware & Industries Vitreous sanitary appliances (vitreous china ) 
Ltd , Bahadurgarh , Distt, Rohtak . consisting of : 

( 1) Wash - down water -closets ; 
12 Wanh - down water- closets , patternal 

height 400 mm front and reer - IS : 
E. 2556 (Part II) - 1967 ; 
( 3 ) Squatting pans, long pan pattern 

size 630 mm , 580 mm and 680 mm ; 
Squatting pang , orissa pattern , size 
630 x 450 mm , 580 7. 440 mm ; IS : 

2556 ( Part III) - 1967. 
( 5 ) Wash basing , flat back , size 450 X 300 

mm , 550 x 400 mm and 630 x 450 mm ; 
(61 Wash basins, angle back size 400 x 

400 mm ; 
6 ) Pedestals for wash basins ; 

IS : 2556 (Part IV ) - 1967 ; 
( 8 ) Laboratory sinks, size 400 X 250 X 150 

mm IS : 2556 (Part 1 )- 1967; 
(9 ) Urinals (bowls flat back ); 

Bowl, angle back , size 340 mm x 
410 mm min x 265 mm ; 

IS : 2556 (Part VI)- 1967 ; 
(11) Siphonic wash -down w ater - closets 

(with flushing cisterns) double fron 1 
pattern with s trap or p tra T IS : 
2556 (Part VIII) - 1967; 
Bidets , large - IS : 2556 (Part IX ) , 
1967. 


I - 11 - 1971 


[ 3 . CA/ L - 2121 

24 - 10 - 1969 


31 - 10 - 1972 Guest , Keen , Williams Ltd , 97 , Andul ( 1 ) Black hexagon bolts , nuts and lock auts 
Road , Shalimar , Howrah - 3 . 

( diameter range 6 - 39 mm ) and Slack 
hexagon screws (diameter range 6 - 24, 
inm ) IS ; 1363- 1967 ; 
Precision and semiprecsion hexagon 
bolts, screws nuts and lock nute (dia 
meter range 6 - 39 mm ) - IS : 1364- 1967 ; 
Slotted countersunk head and slott d 
raised countersunk head screws (dameter 
range 1 6 - 20 mm ) - IS : 1365 - 1968 ; 
Slotted cheese head screws ( diatemer 
range 176 - 20 mm ) - IS : 1366 - 1908 ; 
Black square bolts and nuts (diameter 
range 6 - 39 mm ) and black square 
Acrews ( diameter range 6 - 24 mm ) 
IS : 2585 - 1968 
Coach bolts (M 6 to M 24 ) - IS : 2609 

1964 . 
31 -12 -1972 Industrial Trading Corpn , i Belur BHC dusting powder — IS : 561-1962 . 

Road , Liluah , Howrah . 


138 . CM /L - 2128 

28 - 10 - 1969 


1-1-1972 


4638 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 


[PART II 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


(1) 


(2) 


1- 12 - 1071 


31 - 5 - 1972 


19. CM / L - 2144 

19 -11- 1969 


B . R . Herman & Mohatta ( India ) Pvt Sand cast iron soil pipes , 75 mm , and 100 mg 

Ltd , Dhandari Kalan , Near Dhandari sizes only - - IS : 1729 - 1964 . 
Kalan Railway Station , Ludhiana 
Punjab ). 


1 - 12 - 1971 


110 . CM / L - 2147 

26 - 11- 1969 


30 - 11- 1972 Oswal Electricaly , 49, Industrial Area , 

Faridabad (Haryana ). 


Three - phase induction motora , 0 574 kW 

to 2 . 2 kW class A insulation - IS : 325 - 1961. 


16 - 12 - 1971 


& ACSR conductors — IS : 


Lar. CM / L -2150 

26 - 11- 1969 


15 - 12 - 1972 Ranka Cable Corpo , Industria Estate , 

Cuddapah ( A .P .), 


All aluminium 

398 - 1961. 


I - 12 - 1971 


142 . CM /L - 2152 

28- 11- 1969 
143 . CM / L - 2160 

4 - 12 - 1969 


I - 12 - 1971 


I 


16 - 12 - 1971 


CM / L - 2166 
8 - 12 - 1969 


30 - 11- 1972 Indian Tea -chest Co , 7 , Sagar Dutta Tea - chest metal fittings — IS : 10 - 1964 ) 

Lane, Calcutta -12 . 
30 - 11 - 1972 Isa Jamal Group, Near Indian Oil 18 - litre square tins - IS : 916 - 1966 , 

Installation , Next to Swastik Oil 

Mills, Wadala , Bombay -31. 
31 - 3 - 1972 The Indian Iron & Steel Co, Ltd , P . O . Steel rivets and stay bars for bollerg - IS : 

Burnpur, Distt Burdwan (West Ben - 1990 - 1962, 

gal) 
19 - 12 - 1972 Durlabh Metal Industries Pvt Limited , Wrought aluminium utensils , SIC made 

Howrah Industrial Estatc , Shed No IS : 21 - 1959 . 
L - 26 , L - 36 and L - 37 , P . O . Baltikuri, 

Howrah 
15 - 12 - 1972 Pravat & Company, 34F , Simla Road , Tea -chest metal fittings - IS : 10 - 1964. 

Calcutta - 6 . 


16 - 12 - 1971 


45. CM / L - 2167 

8 - 12 - 1969 


145. CM /L - 2174 

12- 12 - 1969 


16 - 12- 1971 


42 


CWL - 2175 
16 - 12 - 1969 


16 - 12 - 1971 15 - 12 - 1972 Unique Industries, Na liadi -Petlad (1) PVC insulated cables , unsheathed . 

Road , " Near Canal, Nadiad , Distt. gingle core 250 /440 and 650 / 1100 volt: 
Kaira (Gujarat). 

grade with aluminium or copper conduc 

tors ; 
(it ) PVC insulated and PVC sheathed cables , 

single core , 250 /440 volte grade with 

aliminium or copper conductors ; 
(iii) PVC Insulated and PVC sheathed 

cables , twin flat , 250 / 440 volts grade with 

aluminium conductors only ; 
(Iv ) PVC insulated and PVC sheathed 

cables , four core , 650 / 1100 volts grade 
with aluminium conductors - IS : 694 

(Part I & II) - 1964 . 
I - I - 1972 31- 12 - 1972 Victor Cables Corpn , 185, G . T . Roni, Weatherproof Polyethelenc insulated , taped 
Sahibabad ( U .P .). 

or untaped , braided and compounded 
çables single core and twin core, alu 
minium conductors , 250 / 440 and 650 / 1100 

volts grade - IS : 3035 (Part- IT) - 1965. 
1- 1- 1972 31- 12 -1972 Jatiya Loucha Silpa Pratisthan , 52/9 , T ea -chest metal fittings — IS : 10 -1964 

Canal East Road , Calcutta - II. 
f - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 Naffar Chandra Jute Mills Ltd , Bhut- New jute wool pack - - IS : 4856 - 1968 

nath Kolay Road , Kankinara, P . $ . 

Jagaddal, 24 Parganas. 
1 - 12 - 1971 3 11 - 1972 The Ganges Mfg. Co . Ltd , Bansberia, New jute woolpack - IS : 4856 - 1968, 

Distt . Hooghly ( W . Bengal). 


113 . CM /L - 2183 

31- 12 - 1969 


149 . CM /L -2191 

31 - 12 - 1969 
150 . CM / L - 2202 

8 - 1 - 70 


CM / L - 2242 
9 - 2 - 1970 


CM / L - 2340 
8 - 6 - 1970 


16 - 12 -1971 15 -6 - 1972 The Perfect Pottery Co. (Madhya Şalt - glazed stoneware pipcs GIECC A ard 

Bharat ) Ltd , Near Western Rly . " AA " size 100 mm , 150 mm , zco mm , 230 
Hospital , Ratlam ( M .P .). 

mm , 250 mm and 300 mm only 

IS : 651 - 1965, 
16 - 12 - 1971 19- 12 - 1972 Mruthyumjaya Parklands Industries , Tea- chesi battes 
Olcssa , Kottayam (Kerala ) . 

IS : 10 - 1964. 
16 - 9 -1971 15 - 9 -1972 A . R . Nagchoudhury & Co. P . O . Barul- Door close18 (hydraulically rcgulet 
pur, Distt . 24 Parganas , 

IS : 3564 - 1966 . 


153 . CM /L - 2377 

28 - 7 - 1970 


CM / L - 2411 
28- 9 - 1970 


CM / L - 2427 
9 - 10 - 1970 


I - II - 1971 15 - 12 - 1972 Unique Industries , Nadiad - Petled Polythenc insulated ard PVC shoehed 

Road , Near Mahi Canal, Pipply , cablcs, single core and twin core fai 
Nadiad , Distt. Kaira (Gujarat). 250 / 440 volts grade with aluminiini 

conductor 

IS : 1596 - 1962, 
I -II- 1971 31- 10 - 1972 Dulodavala Industries , 114/ 1 , Delhi Pine oil 

Mathura Road , Faridabad (Haryana). IS : 5757 - 1970 , 


136 


CML- 2435 
27 - 10 - 1970 


Sec . 3 ( 1. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4639 


( 1) 


(2 ) 


(3 ) 


(4) 


( 5 ) 


I - II - 1971 


157 . CM / L -2439 

30 - 10 - 1970 


DDT dusting powders 
IS : 564 - 1962 


15 - 7 - 1972 Khandesh Pesticides Pyt , Ltd , Station 

Road , Dharangaon , Distt. Jalgaon , 

W . Rly . 
15 - 7 -1972 

Do. 


158 . CM / L - 2440 

30 - 10 - 1970 


I - II - 1971 


Endrin emulsifiable concentrates 

IS : 1310 - 1958 


159 , CM / L - 2441 

30 - 10 - 1970 


I- II- 1970 


15 - 7 - 1972 


Do . 


DDT emulsifiable concentratos 

IS : 633 - 1956 


160 . CM /L -2443 

30 - 10 - 1970 


I- II -1971 31- 10 -1972 Bhoruka Udyog, Bara Mandir , Panihati Steel drums 20 litcre capacity grade B - 2 
P . O ., 24 Parganas . 

( galvanized ) 
IS : 2552 - 1963 


161. CM / L - 2447 

4 - 11- 1970 


162. CM / L -2451 

6 - II - 1970 


16 - II- 1971 15 -11- 1972 Joy Ice Creams 82 , Dr. Annic Besant Ice- creams 
Road , Worli, Bombay - 18 

IS : 2802 - 1964 
16 - 11 - 1971 15 - 11- 1972 Kutty Flush Door & Furniture Co . Pyt , Timber panelled & glazed door shutters - . 

Ltd , Poonamallee High Road , Koya - IS : 1003 (Part I)- 1966 
mbedu , Madras - 49. 


Dos 


183 . CM /L -2452 

6 - 11 - 1970 
CM /L -2453 

6 - 11 - 1970 


164, 


U / L - 2455 
2 - II - 1970 


16 - 11- 1971 15 -11 - 1972 

Timber door , window & ventilator frames 

IS : 4021- 1967 
16 -11 -1971 15- 11- 1972 S .K . Abed Ali , 9, Melcod Street, Tea - chest metal fittings - . 
Calcutta - 17 

IS : 10 - 1964 
76 - 11 - 1971 15 - 5 - 1972 Evershine Electrical Works ( 1 ), 10 /61, ( I ) PVC insulated cables , unsheathed single 

Industrial Area , Kerti Nagar, New core, aluminium conductor , 250 , 440 
Delhi- 1 

and 650 /1100 volts : and 
( 2 ) PVC ingulated cables , sheathed , singlc 

COTC aluminium 250 / 440 and 650 / 1100 
volts — 

IS : 694 (Part II )- 1964 
16 -II- 1971 15 - II- 1972 Milk Products Factory, Vidhyadhara - Milk powder (whole & skin 
Puram , Vijawada - I (A . P .) 

IS ; 1165- 1967 
I - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 Bijay Industries , 36 / 1 / 1 Canal West Steel drums, 20 litres capacity , grede B2 
Road , Calcutta - II . 

(ungalvanized ) 
IS : 2552 - 1970 


[ 55 . CM / L - 2456 

12 - II - 1970 


: 57. CV / L -2459 

13 - 9 - 1970 


168 . CM / L - 2461 

30 - II + 1970 


169 . CM /L - 2462 

30 - 11- 1970 


1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 Yogiraj Chemical Laboratories , Gill Correcting fluid 
Road , Millerganj, Ludhiana 

IS : 4175 - 1967 
I - 12 - 1971 30 - II- 1972 Hindustan Gum & Chemicals Ltd ., Guar meal 8R livestock feed 

Birla Colony, Bhiwani (Haryana) TIS : 4193 -1967 
I -12- 1971 31- 3 - 1973 Mehsana District Co- operate Milk Infont milk food 

Product Union Ltd , Dudhsagar IS : 1547- 1968 
Dairy , Mehsara (Gujarat ) 


17 ) . CV / L - 24537 

30 - II - 1970 


171. CM / L - 2464 

30 - II - 1970 


172 . CM /L - 2473 

31 12 - 1976 


1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 Cheliha Rolling Mills ( P ) Ltd , 13 Roller steelsectionfrar e har for ventiletci . 

Chanditala Lane, 55 , Netaji Subhas F7B 
Chandra Bose Rd , Tollygunge , IS : 1038 — 1968 

Calcutta - 44 . 
I 12 - 1971 30 - 11 -1972 Joyoti Wire Industries , Mahajan s All aluminium conductors ord ACSI con 

Compound , Bombay -Agra Road , ductors 
Vikhroli Bombay - 79 

IS : 398- 1961 
1 - 12 -1971 37-3 -1973 Tata Iron & SteelCo Ltd , Jameshedpur Non - oriented electrical steel sheets for 

magnetic circuits 
IS : 648 - 1970 


173 . CM /L -2475 

3 - 12 - 1970 


16 - 12 - 1971 


15 - 12 - 1972 


174 . CM L -2482 

10 - 12 - 1970 


Works 


Coastal Ceramics & Clay 

( P ) Ltd , Cheruvannur, 
Feroke (Kerala ) 


Salt- glazed stoneware pipes, 100 mm dig 
meter 
IS : 651 - 1056 


175. CMIL-24 


1-1-1972 


T - I - 1972 


175 . CM / L - 248 

23 - 12 - 1970 


15-4-1972 


19- 4 - 1972 


Venkateshwara Agro Chemicals & Min - Malathion emulsifitis concentrates 

crals , 6 / 203 Thiruvottiyur High IS : 2567- 1963 
Road , Madras - 81 


1 - 1 - 1972 31- 12 - 1972 


176 . CM /- L -2496 

29 - 12- 1970 


Shalani Tron & Metal Works, 13 - 6 Cast iron ſlushis scisterne (telltype) lic 
· Miles, Delhi -Mecrut Road , Ghaziabad , leve , 12 - litres capacity 

IS : 774 - 1964 


- 


- 


_ INO. CMD /13: 12 


4640 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- . . - - 


- . . - . - - - - . 


एस० प्रो० 33 12. - - समय समय पर संशोधित भारतीय मानक संस्था ( प्रमाणन चिल्ल ) विनियम, 1955, के विनियम 8 के उप 
विनियम ( 1 ) के अनुसार भारतीय मानक संस्था की ओर से अधिसूचित किया जाता है कि नीचे अनुसूची में विवरण सहित दिए गए 176 
लाइसेंसों का नवीकरण माह दिसम्बर, 1971 , में किया गया है : 


अनुसूची 


लाइसेंस संख्या और 

तिथि 


वैधता की अवधि 

तक 


लाइसेंसधारियों का नाम और 

पता 


सं० 


लाइसेंम के अधीन वस्तु / 
प्रक्रिया और तत्सम्बन्धी 

__ IS : पदनाम 


+ 


( 1 ) 


( 2) 


( 3) 


(4 ) 


( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


1 


सी एम /एल - 21 
3 -- 12-- 1956 


1 


2. सी एम / एल - 36 

4 - 11- 1957 


3. सी एम / एल - 63 

7 - 2-- 1958 


सी एम / एल - 106 
4 - 11 - 1958 


- 12--1971 30 - 11- 1972 बेलको मेटल इंडस्ट्रीज प्रा० लि०, पिटयां एल्युमिनियम और 

तुलसीराम गुप्त मिल्स एल्युमिनियम मिश्रधातु की 
इस्टेट, दारूखाना , बम्बई - 10 चद्दरें , पत्तियां और वृत्त - - 

IS : 21 - 1959 
16 - 11--1971 15 - 11 - 1972 वि नेशनल इंसुलेटेड केबल क० शिरोपरि पावर प्रेषण काय ? 

आफ इंडिया लि . , निकोहाउस , के लिए सख्त खिचे लड़दार 
हेअर स्ट्रीट , कलकत्ता - 1 एल्युमिनियम और इस्पात 

की कोर वाले एल्युमिनियम 

चालक-- - 

IS : 398 - 1961 
1 - 12 - 1971 31 - 5 - 1972 दि इंडियन टरपेंटाइन एण्ड रोजिन तारपीन का तेल - - 

___ क लि ., पो० प्रो० क्लेंटरगंज , IS : 533 - 1954 

बरेली ( उ०प्र० ) 
16 - 12 - 1971 15 - 12--1972 दि मंसूर केमिकल मैन्यु० लि०, ताम्र सल्फेट . तकनीकी 

चिकबानवार डाकघर , जिला IS : 261 - 1966 

बंगलौर 
1 - 11 - 1971 31 - 10 - 1972 दि ऐल्कली एण्ड केमिकल , कार- बी एच सी का पायसीन 

पोरेशन प्राफ इंडिया लि . , तेज द्रष --- 

34 - चौंरगी , कलकत्ता - 16 IS : 632 -- 1966 
1 - 1 - 1972 31 - 12 - 1972 ट्रावनकोर प्लाइवुड इंडस्ट्रीज लि०, चाय की पेटियों केला 

कृवकलयु , डाकघर पुनलूर ( केरल ) प्लाइवुड की पट्टियां-- - 

IS : 10 - 1964 
1972 पैकिंग मैटीरियल कारपोरेशन , जलसह पकिंग कागज - - 

खोड़ गली, गोखले रोड , IS : 1398 - 1968 

( दक्षिण ) से परे , बम्बई - 28 
1 - 11 - 1971 31 - 10 - 1972 दि ऐल्कली एण्ड केमिकल कारपो - बी एच सी , तकनीकी और 

रेशन आफ इंडिया लि . , 34 - परिशोधित --- 

चौरंगी, कलकत्ता - 16 IS : 560 - 1969 
1 - 12- 1971 30 - 11 - 1974 केरा डिस्ट्रिक्ट कोआपरेटिव दूध का पाकर मार 

मिल्क प्रोड्यूसर्स यनियन लि० , तथा सेपरेटा) 
पानन्द ( १० रेलवे ) कैरा IS : 1165 - 1967 
जिला ( गुजरात ) 


5. सी एम / एल - 129 

22 - 6 - 1959 


6. सी एम / एल - 143 

24 - 9 - 1959 


7 


सी एम /एल - 150 
15 - 10 - 1959 


8. 


सी एम / एल - 153 
15-- 10 - 1959 


14 


9 


सी एम / एल - 205 
20 - 7 - 1960 


SEC. 3 ( 1 ) ] 
-- - -- - - - - -- - - 


4641 


- - 


- - - - - 


-. . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 

--- - - - - 
( 3) ( 4 ) 

( 5 ) 


- - 


- 


(1 ) 


( 2) 


( 6 ) 


1 


10 सी एम / एल - 224 

16 - 9 - 1969 


- 1 - 1972 31 - 12- 1972 स्वराज प्लाइवुड वर्स, पो० बक्स चाय की पेटियों के लिए 
सं० 24 कोट्टायम् 

प्लाइवुड की पट्टियां - -- 
IS : 10 - 1964 


11 सी एम /एल - 243 

23 - 11 - 1960 


1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 हिन्दुस्तान टिन वर्क्स प्रा . लि ., 18:- लीटर के वर्गाकार 

जी० टी० रोड गाजियाबाद टीन के डिब्बे.. .. 
( उ०प्र० ) 

IS : 916 - 1966 
1 - 12 - 1971 30- 11 - 1972 इलेक्ट्रिकल एण्ड मेकेनिकल कार - धातु चढ़े स्विच, 15 एम्पी 

पोरेशन ( इंडिया ) , - 4, इंड - 250 वोल्ट , एम ई एम 


12 


सी एम / एल - 357 
20 - 11 - 1961 


वाहकों वाले -- 
IS : 4064 - 1967 


13 सी एम / एल - 361 

26- 11- 1961 


16 - 12 - 1971 15 - 12 - 1972 मोदी बनस्पति मेन्य० कं मोदी - 18 - लीटर के साकार 

नगर, जिला मेरठ ( उ०प्र० ) के डिब्बे - - 

IS : 916 - 1966 


14 सी एम / एल - 369 

22 - 2 - 1971 


1 - 1 - 1972 31 - 12 - 1972 डी सी एम कन्टेनर्स वर्क्स, नजफगढ़ 18 - लीटर के वर्गाकार 

रोड , नई दिल्ली - 15 

टीन के डिब्बे - -- 
IS : 916 - 1966 


15 


सी एम / एल - 379 
25 - 1 - 1962 


16 सी एम /एल - 381 

9 - 2 - 1962 


1 - 1 - 1972 31 - 12 - 1972 दि नेशनल स्क्र एड वायर शिरोपरि पावर प्रेषण कायो 

प्राउक्टस लि० , बेलूर, डाकघर के सख्त खिचे लड़द 
बेलूरमठ, जिला हावड़ा एल्युमिनियम और इस्पात 

की कोर वाले एल्युमिनि 
यम चालक - - 

IS : 398 - 1961 
16 - 12- 1971 15 - 12 - 1972 पेस्टीसाइड्स इंडिया उदयसागर बी एच सी घलन पाउडर. .. 

रोड, उदयपुर ( राजस्थान ) IS : 561- 1962 
16 - 11 - 1971 15 - 11 - 1972 दि नेशनल इंसुलेटेड केबल कं० पी वी सी के केबल ( 250 

आफ इंडिया लि०, निक्को हाउस , वोल्ट तथा 650 वोल्ट 
हेअर स्ट्रीट, कलकसा - 1 

ग्रेड ) 
IS : 694 ( भाग 1 और 
2 ) - 1964 


17 सी एम / एल - 389 

5 - 3 - 1962 


18 सी एम एल - 424 

30 - 6 - 1962 


1 - 1 - 1972 31 -12- 1972 अनाम इलेक्ट्रिकल मैन्यु० के० 

कादियान, पूर्वगोदवारी 
जिला ( आंध्र प्रदेश ) 


इस्पात प्रबलित एल्युमिनियम 
चालक , और पूर्णतः एल्यु 
मिनियम चालक - - 
IS: 398- 1961 


19 सी एम / एल - 432 

18 - 7 - 1962 


1 - 1 - 1972 31 - 12 - 1972 विक्टर केबल्स कारपोरेशन 7 / 3, ( 1 ) तांबा या एल्य 

जी टी रोड , साहिबाबाद, मिनियम चालकों वाले 
डाकघर पसौंदा ( गाजियाबाद ) पी वी सी रोधित केबल 


- 


- -- -- -- - 


- ----- ---- 


4642 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART it 


( 1) 


( 2) 


( 3) 


( 4) 


(5 ) 


( 6 ) 


250/ 440 और 650 / 
1100 वोल्ट ग्रेड -- - 
( 2 ) केवल तांबा के 
चालकों वाले पी वी सी 
रोधित लचकीली डोरिया 
250/ 440 वोल्ट ग्रे 


20 सी एम / एल - 467 

30 - 10 - 1962 


21 सी एम / एल - 547 

14 - 6 - 1963 


22 सी एम / एल - 554 

26 - 61963 


23 सी एम / एल - 562 

11 - 7 - 1963 


24 सी एम / एल - 588 

4 - 10 - 1983 


IS: 694 ( भाग 1 और 

2 ) - 1964 
16 - 11- 1961 15 - 11 - 1972 शालीमार टार प्राडक्ट्स ( 1935 ) जलसह और नमीसह बनाने 

लि०, 26- लेक रोड, भांडुप , के लिए बिटयूमैन के नमवे, 
बम्बई - 78 

टाइप 3, ग्रेड 1 और 
2 

IS : 1322 - 1965 
16-- 12--1971 15 - 12 - 1972 शीट एण्ड मेटल इंडस्ट्रीज, 134 चाय की पेटियों के लिए 

जैसोर रोड , दमदम कलकत्ता - धातु के फिटिंग 
55 

IS : 10 - 1964 
1 - 11 - 1971 30 - 10 - 1972 अन्नपूर्णा पुल्चराइजिंग मिल्स , बी एच सी घलन पाउडर . .. 

इंडस्ट्रियल इस्टेट , एलूरू पशि-. IS : 561 - 1962 
चम गोदावरी जिला ( आंध्र 

प्रदेश ) 
1 - 11 - 1971 30 - 4 - 1972 

बी एच सी जलविसर्जनीय 

तेज चूर्ण - - 

IS : 562 - 1962 
16 - 10- 1971 15 - 10 - 1972 दि अहमदाबाद मैन्यु० एण्ड ( 1 ) इकहरे कोर ( बिना 

कैलिको प्रिटिंग कं . लि . खोल वाले ) पी वी सी 
कैलिको मिल्स केमिकल्स एण्ड रोधित केबल , 250 / 440 
प्लास्टिक डिवीजन अनिक जै - वोल्ट तथा 650 / 1100 
बूर, बम्बई - 71 

वोल्ट ग्रेड के , ताबा अथवा 
एल्युमिनियम चालकों वाले 

और 
( 2 ) इकहरे कोर ( पी 
वी सी खोल वाले ) पी 
वी सी रोधित केबल, 2501 
440 वोल्ट ग्रेड के 
तौबा अथवा एल्युमिनियम 
चालकों वाले , और 650 / 
1100 वो ग्रेड के केबल 
तौबा के चालकों वाले -- 
IS : 694 ( भाग 1 और 

2) ----1961 
16- 11 - 1971 15- 11- 1972 शालीमार टार प्राडक्ट्स ( 1935 ) जलसह बनाने के लिए 

लि०, 26 लेक रोड , भांडुप , बिट्यूमेन ( प्लास्टिक ) - - 
बम्बई - 71 

___ IS: 1580- 1969 


25 सी एम /एल - 591 

21 - 10 - 1963 


4643 


SEC . 3 ( ii) ] 
- - - - - - - - 


- - - - - - -- - - - - - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 

- - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - -- - - 
( 3 ) 

( 5 ) 


( 1) 


( 2 ) 


( 6 ) 


26 सी एम / एल - 592 

21 - 10 - 1963 


27 सी एम / एल - 596 

30 - 10- 1963 


28 सी एम / एल - 598 

7 - 11 - 1963 


16 - 11 - 1971 15 - 11- 1972 शालीमार टार प्राडक्ट्स कंत्रीट में प्रसार जोड़ों को 

( 1935 ) लि . , 26, लेकरोड भरने के पूर्व निर्मित पदार्थ 
भांडुप , बम्बई - 71 

तन्य प्रकार के तथा दाब 
पर न निकल पड़ने वाले 

IS : 1838 - 1961 
16 - 12 - 1971 15-- 12 --1972 पेस्ट , पाइड्ग इंरिया , उदयसागर डी डी टी जल विसर्जनीय 

राड, उदयपुर ( राजस्थान ) तेज चूर्ण - - 

IS : 565- 1961 
1 - 12 - 1971 31 - 5 - 1972 स्काईटोन इलेक्ट्रिकल्म ( इंडिया ) ( 1 ) इकहरी कोर वाले 

43, इंडस्ट्रियल एरिया , पी वी मी केबल , खोल 
फरीदाबाद ( हरयाणा ) वाले और बिना खोल 

वाले एल्युमिनियम चालकों 
वाले , 250/ 440 पौर 
650/ 1100 वोल्ट ग्रेड 
( 2 ) दुहरी तीन या चार 
कोर वाने खोल दार पी 
वी सी रोधित भौर पीवी 
मी खोल वाले चपटे अथवा 
गोल केबल , तांबा अथवा 
एल्युमिनियम चालकों वाले , 
250/ 440 या 650/ 

1100 वोल्ट ग्रेड , ओर 
( 3 ) दुहरी मरोड़ी बिना खोल 
वाली लचकीली डोरियां 
2501440 वोल्ट ग्रेड 
की ताबों , के चालकों 
वाली -- 
IS : 694 ( भाग 1 

2 ) - 1964 


29 सी एम / एल - 621 

22-- 1 - 1964 


16 - 12- 1971 16 - 12 - 1972 पेस्टीसाइड्स इंडिया उदयसागर बी एच सी जलविसर्जनीय 

रोड , उदयपुर ( राजस्थान ) IS : 562 - 10972 


30 


16 - 12- 1971 15 - 12-- 1972 


सी एम / एल - 677 

25 - 5 - 1964 


ही डी टो घलन पाउडर - -- 
IS : 564 - 1961 


31 


सी एम / एल - 696 

17 - 6 - 1964 


16 - 11 - 1971 15 - 11 - 1972 दि नेशनल इंसुलेटेड केबल , कं० 

आफ इंडिया लि०, शामनगर , 
24 परगना ( पं० बंगाल ) 


पी वी सी रोधित ( भारी 

ड्यूटी ) बिजली के 
केबल 1100 और उतने 
तक कार्यकारी वोल्टता 
के तांबे अथवा एल्यूमि 
नियम चालकों वाले - -- 
IS : 1554 ( भाग 1 ) 
1969 


[ PART II. 


4644 
- . 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - .- - .. . - - 


- - - 


- - 


--- - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 
- - - - -. ..- - - - - 
( 2 ) ( 3) 

( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


32 सी एम / एल - 788 16 - 12 - 1971 15 --12- 1972 जमना ऑटो इंडस्ट्रीज , ई - 46, स्वचल गाड़ियों के निम्ल बन 
25 - 9- 1969 

इंडस्ट्रिययल एरिया , यमुना - के लिए कमानियों 
नगर (जिला अम्बाला ) और कमानी की 

पत्तियां 

IS : 1135 - 1966 
33 सी एम / एल - 799 1-- 11 - 1971 31 - 10 - 1972 अन्नपूर्णा पुल्चराइजिग मिल्स , इंड - एल्ड्रिन का पायसनीय तेज 
12 - 10 - 1964 

स्ट्रियल इस्टेट, एलूरु ( पश्चिम द्रव -- 

गोदावरी जिला ) ( प्रांघ्र प्रदेश ) IS : 1310 - 1958 
34 सी एम / एल - 831 16 -- 11 - 1971 15 - 11 - 1972 अग्रवाल हार्डवेयर वर्क्स प्रा . लिक संरचना इस्पात ( मा 

__ 167, चित्तरंजन एवेन्यू , 
2 - 11 - 1964 

किस्म ) इस्पात के 
कलकत्ता 

परीक्षित गोले 1 इंच 
( 25 मिमी ) व्यास तक 
के फ्लैट 1 " xt " से 
2 " x " तक के ( 25 
मीमीX 16 मिमी ) 
से 50 मिमी 12. 7 
मिमी ) तथा बराबर क्षेत्र 
फल वाले सेक्शन - - 

IS : 226 - 1969 
35 मी एम एल - 832 16 - 11 - 1971 15 - 11 - 1972 

संचरना इस्पात ( साधारण 

किस्म ) " इस्पात के 
2 - 11 - 1964 

परिक्षित गोले 1 " ( 25 
मिमी ) व्यास तक के पलट 

और 1 " " से 
2 " X " ( 25 मिमी 
16 मिमी से 50 से 
मिमी X 12 . 7 मिमी 
तथा बराबर क्षेत्रफल 

वाले सेक्शन -- 

IS : 1977 - 1969 
36 सी एम / एल - 839 1 -12- 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 इंडस्ट्रियल रिसर्च कारपोरेशन , रंजकों से बनी फाउटेनपेन 
- 23 - 11 - 1964 

128 - लैटिस ब्रिज रोड , की स्याही (निली : लाल 
मद्रास - 2 

तथा हरी ) - - 

IS : 1221 - 1957 
37 मी एम /एल-- 844 1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 बड़नगर जूट फैक्टरी कं० लि० , 1 ) भारतीय हेसियन 
28 -- 11 - 1964 

284, महाराजा नन्दकुमार रोड , IS : 2818 - 1964 
पालमबाजार, कलकत्ता - 35 2 ) हेसियन बोरे -- 

IS : 3790 - 1966 
38 सी एम / एल - 845 1 -- 12 - 1971 30 - 11 -- 1972 

1 ) ए-टिवल पटसन के बोरे 
28 --11 - 1964 

IS : 1943 - 1964 

2 ) बी -टिवल पटसन के बारे 
IS : 2566- 1965 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29, 1894 


SEC . 3 ( i ] 
-- - - - --- - -- - - - 


4645 


- . - .. 


- - - 


- - 


- . - - - 


- 


( 1) 


( 2) 


( 3) 


( 4 ) 


( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


3 ) भारी पटसन के बोरे 
IS : 2871 - 1964 
___ जूट के मक्का के बोरे - 
1 ) : 2875 - 1964 
5 ) बी -दिवाल कपड़ा -- 
IS : 3667 - 1964 
6 ) लिवरपूल ट्विल ( एल 
___ टिवल ) कपड़ा 
IS : 3669 - 1966 
7 ) मक्का के सैकिंग का 

पटसन कपड़ा - -- 
IS : 3750 - 1966 
8 ) भारी सी कपड़ा - - 
IS : 3751 - 1966 और 
9 ) लिवरपुल ( पल - टवल ) 

बोरे 
IS : 3794 - 1966 


39 सी एम / एल - 850 
28 - 11 - 1964 


1--12 -1971 30 - 11 - 1972 हावड़ा मिल्प कं० लि . 493: मी ) 

ए जी टी रोड , दक्षिण हावड़ा 


1 ) भारती हेमियन ---- 
IS : 2818 - 1964 
2 ) हेसियन बोरे - - 
IS - 3790-- 1966 


40 


1 - 12 - 1961 


30 - 11 - 1972 


सी एम / एल - 851 

28 - 11 - 1964 


1 ) ए-ट्विल पटसन के बोरे 
IS : 19 43 - 1964 
2 ) बी ट्विल पटमन के बारे 
IS : 2566 - 1965 
3 ) भारी मी पटसन के बोरे--- 
IS : 2874 - 1964 

4 ) जुट के मक्का के बोरे 
IS : 2875-- 1964 
5 ) बी -टिवल कपड़ा 
IS : 3667 - 1964 
6 ) लिवरपूल ट्विल एल-टिवल 

कपड़ा 
IS : 3669 - 1966 
7 ) मका सैकिंग का पट 

मन कपडा -- - 
IS : 3750 - 1966 
8 ) भारी सी कपड़ा - -- 
IS : 3751 - 1966 
9 ) लिवरपूल ( एल-टिवल ) 
बोरे - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- ---- -- - -- ------- 


-- --- - -....... 


. . .. . .... 


4646 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART 


- - . . - - 


- . 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


- 


- 


- 


41 सी एम / एल - 852 

28- 11 - 1964 


42 मी एम / एल - 853 

28 - 11 - 1464 


43 सी एम / एल - 854 

28 - 11 - 1964 


44 सी एम / एल - 855 

28 - 11 - 1964 


1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972. बजबज अमलगामेटेड मिल्स , ( ईकाई IS : 3794 ---1966 

बज बज ) 57-- - मोलाना पाजाव 1 ) भारतीय हेमियन - - 
रोड, बजबज , कलकत्ता IS : 2818 - 1964 

2 ) हेसियन बोरे - - 

IS : 3790 - 1966 
1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 बजबज एमलगामेटेड मिल्म , ( ईकाई 1 ) ए-टिवल पटमन के बोरे -- 

बजबज ) 57 - मौलाना पाजाव IS : 1943- 1964 
रोड , बजबज , कलकत्ता 2 ) बी -टिवलपटसन के बोरे 

IS : 2566 -- 1964 
3 ) भारी सी पटसन के बोरे 

IS : 2874 - 1964 
4 ) बी -टिवल कपड़ा - - 
IS : 3667 - 1966 
5 ) भारी सी कपड़ा - -- 

IS3751 - 1966 
1 - 12 -1971 30 - 11 - 1972 बजबज एमलगामेडेड मिल्स , 1 ) भारतीय हेसियन - - 

( ईकाई : डेल्टा ) मानिकपुर , IS : 2818 - 1964 
संकरैल, हावड़ा 

2 हेमियन बोरे 

IS : 3790 - 1966 
1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 

1 ) ए-टिवल पटसन के बोरे 
IS : 1943-- 1964 
2 ) वी -टिवल के बोरे -- 
IS : 2566 - 1964 
3 ) भारी सी पटसन के बोरे 
IS : 2874 - 1964 
4 ) बी -टिवल कपड़ा - - 
IS : 3667 - 1966 
5 ) भारी सी कपड़ा -- - 

IS : 3751 - 1966 
1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 बजबज एमलामठेल मिल्म , ( ईकाई 1 ) भारतीय हेमियन - - 

शवाय ) बड़ेकली नगर, बजबज , IS : 2818 - 1964 
कलकता 

2 ) हेमियन बोरे - -- 

IS: 3790 -- 1966 
1 - 12 - 1971 1 - 12 - 1971 बमबम एमलगामेठेर मिल्प, इकाई 1 ) ए-टिवल पटसन के बोरे 

शवाय ) बड़ेकली नगर , IS : 1943 - 1964 
बजबज, फलकत्ता 

2 ) बी -टिवल पटसन के बोरे 
IS : 2566--1965 
3 ) भारी मी पटसन के बोरे 
IS : 2874 - 1964 
4 ) बी -टिवल कपड़ा-- - 


45 मो एम / एल - 856 

28 -- 11 - 1964 


16 मोम/ एल - 857 

28 - 11 - 1964 


5 ) भारी सी कपड़ा 
IS : 3751 - 1966 


SEC , 3 ( ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1844 
. . - -- - - - - - --- - - - - - , - ---- - - - - - - --. . 


4647 


- - - - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


--- - --- - - . - : 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


- 


47 सी एम / एल - 858 

28 - 11 - 1964 


48 सी एम / एल - 859 

28 - 11 - 1964 


1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 ऑकलंण्ड जूट कं० लि . जगनदल . 1 भारतीय हेमियन - 

24 परगना । 

IS: 2818 - 1964 
2 ) हेमियन बोरे ---- 

IS : 3790 - 1966 
1 - 12 - 197131 - 5 - 1972 

1 ) ए - टिवल पटमन के बारे 
___ IS : 1943 - 1964 
2 ) बी -टिवल पटसन के बोरे 
IS2566 -- 1965 
3 भारी मी पटसन के बारे 
IS 2874--1964 
4 ) जट के मक्का के वोरे 
IS 2875 - 1964 
5 ) बी -टिवल कपड़ा - - 
IS3667 - 1964 
( 6 ) लिवरपूल टिवल ( एल 

टिवल ) कपड़ा - - 
IS : 3669 - 1966 
7 ) मक्का सैकिंग का 

पटमन कपड़ा 
IS 3750 - 1966 
8 ) भारी मी कपड़ा - -- 
IS : 3751 - 1966 और 
9 ) लिवरपुल ( एल -टिवल ) 

बोरे - -- 

IS : 3794 - 1966 
1 -- 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 इनहौजी जूट कं . लि . , घांप - 1 ) भारतीय हेसियन - - 

दानी जिला हुगली 

IS: 2818 - 1964 
2 ) हेसियन बोरे --- 

IS : 3790 - 1966 
1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 किलोसस जट मिल्प क० लि . 1 ) भारतीय हेमियन - ... 

टीटागन - 24 परगना 

IS : 28 18 - 1964 
2 ) हेसियन बोरे - - 

IS : 3790 - 1966 
1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 

1 ) ए- टिवल जूट बोरे - - 
IS : 1964 - 1964 
2 ) बी -टिवल जूट बोरे -- 

IS : 2566 - 1965 
3 ) भारी सी जट बोरे - -- 

IS : 2874 - 1964 
1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 नार्थक जुट कं० लि०, चापदानी , 1 ) भारतीय हेसियन - - 

जिला हुगली 

IS : 2818 -- 1964 
2 ) हेसियन बोरे 
IS : 3790 - 1966 


49 सो एम / एल - 860 

28 - 11 - 1964 


50 मो एम / एल - 861 

28 - 11 - 1964 


51 


सी एम / एल - 862 

28 - 11 - 1964 


52 सी एम / एल - 865 

28 - 11 - 1964 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- -- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- - - - - - - 


- - 


- 


- - . - 


- 


. 


- 


- , 


. 


4648 
- - - - - - - - -- -- -- 


- - - _ 


_ . . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 , 1972/ ASVINA 29, 1894 
- - - _ _ 

_ _ _ _ - - - - - - - - . . . - - -- - - - - - --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - 
( 2) ( 3) 

( 5 ) 


[ PART II 
--- - --- - 
( 6 ) 


( 1 ) 


- - 


- -- - 


- -- 


53 सी एम एल - 866 


54 मी एम एल - 868 

28 - 11 - 1964 


1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 

1 ) ए -टिवल पटमन के बोरे 

IS : 1943 - 1964 
28 - 11 - 1964 

2 ) बी -टिवल पटसन केबोरे 

IS : 2566 - 1965 
3 ) भारी सी पसटन के बोरे 
IS : 2874 - 1964 
4 ) पटसन के मक्का के 

बोरे--- 
IS : 2875 - 1964 
5 ) बी -टिवल कपड़ा 

IS : 3667 - 1964 
6 ) लिवरपूल टिवल (एल 

टिवल - ) कपड़ा 
IS: 3669 - 1966 
7 ) मक्का मैकिंग का पट 

मन कपड़ा-- - 
IS: 3750 - 66 
8 ) भारी सी कपड़ा 

IS: 3751 - 1966 और 
9 ) लिवरपूल ( एल -टिवल ) 

बोरे - - 

IS : 3794-- 1966 
1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 यूनियन जुट कं० लि . 12 - 1 ) भारतीय टेसियन .. . 

कानवेन्ट लेन , कलकत्ता - 15 IS : 2818 - 1964 

2 ) हेसियन बोरे - - 

IS: 3790 - 1966 
1 - 12 - 1971 30 -- 11 - 1972 दि नदिया मिल्स कं . लि . , नई 1 ) भारतीय टेसियन - - 

हट्टी 24 परगना 

IS : 2818 - 1964 
2 ) हेसियन बोरे - - 

IS : 3790 - 1966 
1 - 12 - 197.1. 30 - 11 - 1972 

1 ) ए - टिवल पटसन के बोरे 

IS : 1943 - 1964 
2 ) बी - टिवल पटसन के 

बोरे - - 
IS: 2566 - 1965 
3 ) भारी सी पटसन बोरे 

IS : 2874 - 1964 
4 ) अट के मक्का के 

बोरे - - 

IS : 2875 - 1964 
5 ) बी -ट्रिवल कपड़ा - - 

IS: 3667 -1964 
6 ) लिवरपुल टिवल एल 

टिवल ) कपड़ा 
IS3669- 66 


56 


मी एम / एल -- 871 

28 - 11 - 1964 


56 मी एम / एल - 872 

28 - 11 - 1965 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


-- 


- 


- . - . 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


4649 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] 
- - -- --- - - ----- - - - ---- - --- - - 

( 1 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 
-- - - - - - . ..---- - 

( 3) (4 ) 


( 2) 


( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


• 7 ) मक्का सैकिंग का 

पटसन कपड़ा - -- 
IS : 3750 - 66 
8 ) भारी सी कपड़ा - - 
____ IS : 3751 - 1966 
9 ) लिवरपूल ( एल -टिवल ) 

बोरे ---- 

IS : 3794 - 1966 
1 -- 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 नेशनल कं० लि० राजगंज , अंदूल ( 1 ) बी -ट्विल जूट बोरे 

हावड़ा । 

IS : 2566 - 1965 
( 2 ) बी -ट्विल कपड़ा 

IS : 3667 - 1966 
1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11-- 1972 विक्टोरिया जूट कं० लि० , डाकघर ( 1 ) भारतीय हेसियन 

तेलिनीपाड़ा. जिला हुगली । IS : 2818 - 1964 

( 2 ) हसियन बोरे-- -- 
IS : 3790 - 1966 


57 सी एम / एल - 874 

28 - 11 -- 1964 


68 सी एम /एल -881 

28 - 11 - 1964 


1 


59 सो एम / एल - 882 

28 - 11 - 1964 


- 12-- 1971 30 - 11 -1972 

( 1 ) ए-टिवल पटसन के 
बारे - -- 
IS : 1943 - 1964 
( 2 ) वी -टिवल पटसन 
बोरे - - 

IS : 2566 - 1965 
( 3 ) भारी सी पटसन 
के बोरे - - 

IS : 2874- 1964 
( 4 ) मक्का के पटसन 

के बोरे - - 
___ IS : 2875 - 1964 
( 5 ) बी - टिवल कपड़ा 
____ IS : 3667 - 1964 
( 6 )लिवपूल ट्विल ( एल 
टिवल कपड़ा - - 

IS : 3669 - 1966 
( 7 ) मक्का सैकिंग का पट 
सन कपड़ा - -- 

IS : 3750 - 1966 
( 8 ) भारी सी कपड़ा 

IS : 3751 - 1966 
( 9 ) लिवरपूर ( एल 
दिवल ) बोरे 

IS : 3794 - 1966 
1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 हेस्टिज मिल लि०, रिषरा, हुगली ए -ट्विल जूट बोरे -- 

___ IS : 1943 - 1964 


80 सी एम / - 894 

- 28 - 11 - 1964 


H 


- 


- 


4650 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 

[ PART II — 
- --- - - - - - -- . .. - - - - - - -- --- -- - -- - - -- -- - -- - - - - -- - -- -- --- -- -- - - - - - - - -- -... 
2 

5 

---- - ---- - - - - 
61 सी एम / एल - 886 1 - 12- 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 फोर्ट विलियम कं० , 47/ 48 एट्विल जूट के बोरे - - 
28 - 11 - 1964 

गजनारायण राय चौधरी, घाट रोड, IS : 1943 - 1964 

शिवपुर हावड़ा । 
62 सी एम / एल - 894 1 - 12--1971 30 - 11 - 1972 हुकमचन्द जुट मिल्म लि० , 47, ( 1 ) ए -टिवल पटसन के 
28-- 11 -- 1964 

घोषपाड़ा रोड , हलीशहर । बोरे - - 

IS : 1943 - 1964 
( 2 ) बी -ट्विल पटसन 
के बोरे-- - 

IS : 2566 --1964 
( 3 ) भारी सी पटसन 
के बोरे - - 
IS: 2874 - 3974 
( 4 ) मक्का के पटसन के 
बोरे - - 

IS : 2875 - 1964 
( 5 ) बी -ट्विल कपड़ा 

IS : 3667 - 1964 
( 6 ) लिवरपूल ट्विल 
( एल - दिसल ) कपड़ा-- - 

IS : 3669- 1966 
( 7 ) मक्का संकिग का 

पटसन कपड़ा 
IS: 3750 - 1966 
( 8 ) भारी सी कपड़ा 

IS : 3751 - 1966 
( 9) लिवरपूल ( एल -ट्विल ) 

बोरे 

IS : 3794 - 1966 
63 सी एम / एल - 898 1- - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 एंग्लो - इंडिया मिल्स कं . लि . बी -ट्विल पटसन के बोरे -- - 
- 28 - 11 - 1964 

( मिडिल मिल ) ; जगतदल , IS : 2566 - 1965 

24 - परगना । 
64 सी एम / एल - 903 1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 गगलभाई जूट मिल्स ( डिवीजन ( 1 ) भारतीय हेसियन 
28-- 11 - 1964 

मफतलाल गगलभाई एण्ड कं० , IS : 2818 - 1964 
प्रा० लि० ) , सिजेबेरिया , डाक - ( 2 ) हेसियन बोरे -- 
घर उलबेरिया , हावड़ा 

IS : 3790 - 1966 
65 सी एम / एल - 906 1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 कैलेडोनियन जूट मिल्स कं०लि०, वी -ट्विल पटसन के बोर - - 
____ 28 - 11 - 1964 

18, मेहता रोड , बड़काली नगर , IS: 2566 - 1965 

24 परगना । 
66 सी एम / एल - 910 1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 दि इंडिया जूट मिल्स कं . लि . , ( 1 ) ए-ट्विल पटसन के बौर 
28 - 11 - 1964 

पी० एस० सीरामपुर, हुगली । IS: 1943 - 1964 

( 2 ) बी - दिवल पटसन के 
बोरे 
IS : 2566- 1965 


SEC. 3 (ii)] 

- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 
- - -- - - - - - - - - .. ... ..-.- : . ..: - . .. --- --- - - - ------- - ---- - - - - ..-. : : . . . .. . . . . 

5 


4651 
. .... --- - -- - -- - - - - 


- - 


3 . 


_ _ 


4 


- 


- 


- -11 


। 


। 


। 


। 


। 


- 


- 


. 


. 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- - - 


( 3 ) भारी सी पटसन के 
बोरे--- 

IS: 2874-- 1964 
( 4 ) पटसन के मक्का 

के बोरे ... 
IS : 2875 - 1964 
( 5 ) बी - दिवल कपड़ा 

IS : 3667 - 1966 
( 6 ) मक्का के मैकिंग 
पटसन बोरे - -- 

IS: 3750 - 1966 
( 7 ) भारी सी कपड़ा - - 


67. सी एम एल - 919 

28 - 11 - 1961 


68 . सी एम / एल - 920 

28 - 11 - 1964 
69 . सीएम / एल - 927 

28 - 11 - 1964 


70 . मी एम / एल - 928 

28 - 11-- 1964 


1 - 12 - 1971 30--11-- 1972 नई हटी गुट मिल्म के लि० , ( 1 ) भारतीय हैसियन --- 

डाकघर हाजीनगर , 24 - परगना IS: 2818 - 1966 

( 2 ) हेमियन बोरे -~ 

___ IS : 3790 -1966 
1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 

बी -टिवल पटसन के बोरे 

____ IS : 2566 - 1965 
1--12 -1971 30--11--1972 चांपदानी जूट कं . लि०, ( 1 ) भारतीय हेसियन 

( बिलिंगटन जूट ) जी० टी० ___ IS : 2818 - 1964 
रोड , रिषरा, हगली । ( 2 ) हैमियन बोरे - - 

IS : 3790 - 1966 
1 -12- 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 

( 1 )एटिवल पटमन के बोरे 

IS : 1943 - 1964 
( 2 ) बी -ट्विाल पटसन के 

मोरे-- - 
FTIS: 2566--1965 
( 3 ) भारी सी पटसन के बोरे-- 

IS : 2874 -- 1964 
( 4 ) मक्का के पसटन के 
बोरे - - 

IS : 2875 - 1964 
( 5 ) बी -ट्विल कपड़ा 

IS : 3667 -- 1964 
{ 6 ) लिवरपूल टिवल 
( एल -ट्विल ) कपड़ा 
IS : 3669 - 1966 
( 7 ) मक्का के सैकिंग का 
पदमन का कपड़ा -- - 
IS : 3750 - 1966 
( 8 ) भारी सी कपड़ा 
IS : 3751 - 1966 

और 
( 9 ) लिवरपूल ( एल 
दिवल ) बोरे 
IS : 3794 - 1968 


- 


- । 


- 


- - 


-- . 


- . - 


. 


. . - 


. 


- 


- - 


-- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- - 


4652 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II 


-- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


- - - - - 


- 


- - - - - - - 


- - - - 


. . _ _ - _ 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - - - - - 


- -- -- 


+ 


+ 


71 . सी एम / एल - 921 

28- 11 - 1964 


72 . सी एम / एल - 942 

28 - 11 - 1964 


1-- 12 - 1971 30 - 11-- 1972 न्यू सेन्ट्रल मिल्स कं० लि ., ( 1 ) भारतीय हेसियन 

( ऐल्बियन मिल्स ) बजबज , IS : 2818 - 1964 
24 परगना । 

( 2 ) हेसियन बोरे ---- 

IS : 3790 - 1966 
1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 

( 1) ए -ट्विल पसटसन के बोरे 

IS : 1943 --1964 
( 2 ) बी -टिवल पटसन के 

बोरे -- 
IS : 2566 - 1965 
( 3 ) भारी सी पटसन के 

बोरे--- - 
IS : 2874 - 1964 
( 4 ) मक्का के पटसन के 
बोरे 
IS : 2875 - 1964 
( 5 ) बी -ट्विल कपड़ा 
IS : 3667 - 1964 
( 6 ) लिवरपूल ट्विल 
( एल -ट्विल ) कपड़ा 
IS : 3669 - 1966 
( 7 ) मक्का के सैकिंग का 

पटसन का कपड़ा---- 
IS : 3750 - 1966 
( 8 ) भारी सी कपड़ा --- 
IS : 3751 - 1966 


पौर 


73. सी एम / एल - 943 
. 28 - 11 - 1964 


74 . सी एम /एल - 945 

28 -- 11 - 1964 


दिवल ) बोरे - - 

IS : 3794 - 1966 
1 - 12 - 1972 30 - 11 - 1972 न्यू सेंट्रल जूट मिल्स कं . लि . , ( 1 ) भारतीय हेसियन 

( लोथियन मिल्स ) बजबज , IS : 2818 - 1969 
24 परगना । 

( 2 ) हेसियन बोरे -- 

IS : 3790 - 1966 
1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 गंगा मैन्य ० के०लि०, बांसवेरिया , ( 1 ) भारतीय हेमियन - - 

___ IS : 2818 - 1964 
( 2 ) हेसियन बोरे - - 

IS : 3790 -- 1966 
1 - 12 -1971 30--11 -1972 , , ( 1 ) ए -ट्विल पटसन के बोरे 

IS : 1943- 1964 
( 2 ) बी -ट्विल पटसन के 
बोरे --- 
IS : 2566 - 1965 


हुगली । 


75 . सी एम / एल -946 

28 - 11 - 1964 


Sợc. 3 ( iij 


THE GAZETTE OF INDİA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 


465 


-- 


- 


- 


- 


ड ( 3 ) भारी सी पटसन के बोरे 

IS : 2874 - 1964 
( 4 ) मक्का के पटसन के 
बोरे-.. 
IS : 2875-- 1964 
( 5 ) बी - ट्विल कपड़ा -- 

IS : 3667 - 1964 
( 6 ) लिवरपूल ट्विल 
( एल -टिवल ) कपड़ा 
IS : 3669 - 1966 
( 7 ) मक्का के सैकिंग का 
पटसन का कपड़ा -- 
IS : 3750 -- 1966 
( 8 ) भारी सी कपड़ा - -- 
IS : 3751 --1966 

और 
( 9 )लिवरपूल ( एल 

ट्विल ) बोरे 

IS : 3794 - 1966 
1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - - 1972 दि अगरपाड़ा कं० लि०, डाकघर ( 1 ) भारतीय हेसियन 

कमरहट्टी, 24 - परगना । IS : 2818 - 1964 

( 2 ) हेसियन बोरे- --- 

IS : 3790 - 1966 
1 - 121 - 971 30 - 11 - 1972 

( 1 ) बी - दिवल पटसन के 
बोरे-.. 

IS : 2566 - 1965 
( 2 ) बी - ट्विल कपड़ा 

IS : 3667 - 1966 
1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 प्रवर्तक जूट मिल्स लि०, कमर - ( 1 ) ए -ट्विल पसटसन के 
हट्टी, बी०टी० रोड, 24 परगना बोरे 

IS : 1943 - 1964 
( 2 ) बी ट्रियल पसटसन 
के बोरे - -- 
IS : 2566 - 1965 


76 सी एम / एल -947 

28 -- 11 - 1964 


77 सी एम / एल - 948 

28 - 11 - 1964 


78 सी एम / एल - 958 

28 - 11 - 1964 


१७ सी एम/एल-963 


79 सी एम / एल - 963 

28 - 11 - 1964 


1-12-1971 


80 सी एम / एल - 964 

28 - 11 - 1964 


1 --12- 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 नफर चद्र जूट मिल्स लि० , कांकी - ( 1 ) भारतीय हेसियन - - 

नाड़ा , 24 परगना 

IS : 2818 - 1964 
( 2 ) हसियन बोरे- - 

IS : 3790 - 1966 
1 - 12-- 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 नफरचन्द्र जूट मिल्स लि०, काकी- ( 1 ) बी - दिवल पटसन के 

नाड़ा, 24 - परगना । 

बोरे 
__ IS : 2566 - 1965 
( 2 ) भारी सी पटसन के 
बोरे- -- 
IS : 2774 - 1964 


CIA 


4654 


[ PART II .- - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 

- -- - - -- - - --- - - - -- - 


2 


81 सी एम/ एल - 975 16 - 12 - 1971 15 - 12 - 1972 हिन्दुस्तान पेन्म प्रा लि ०, जी० पिटवा एल्युमिनियम के बर्तन , 
30 - 11 - 1964 

टी० रोड, डाकघर पमोदा , ग्रेड एस ० आई० सी० 
गाजियाबाद ( उ०प्र०) 

IS : 21 -- 1959 
82 सी एम / एल - 977 1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 इंडस्ट्रियल रिसर्च कारपोरेशन , फैरो-गैलो टनेट फाउंटेन 
13 - 11 - 1964 

128, लैटिम ब्रिज रोड, मद्रास - 2 पेन की स्याही- -- 

_ IS: 220 - 1959 
83 भी एम / एल - 981 1 - 1 - 1972 31 -12- 1972 इंडस्ट्रियल केमिकल्स लि०, शंकर- कैल्शियम कार्बाइक किस्म ए 
21 - 12 - 1964 

नगर , तलाइयूत ( आर एम ) 
जिला तिरुनेलवेली । 

IS : 1040 -1960 
84 सी एम /एल - 10521 - --11--1971 31-- 1()--1972 जे ० के ० स्टील एण्ड इंडस्ट्रीज लि ., गर्म बेल्लित इस्पात की 
15 - 4 - 1965 

रिपरा -जिला प्लगली । 

पत्तियां ( गांठ बांधने 
के लिये --- 

IS: 1929 - 1970 
85 सी एम / एल - 1078 16 - 10 - 1971 15-- 10 - 1972 श्री हनुमान इस्ट्रीज , 65 / ए , ऊंचाई पर लगने वाली 
31 - 5 - - 1965 

जी० टी० रोड, लिलुवा, हावड़ा ढलवां साह की नीचे से 

चौड़ी फ्लैश की टंकियां, 
10 लीटर , 12. 5 लीटर 
तथा 15 लीटर समाई 
वाली - - 

IS : 774 - 1964 
86 सी एम / एल - 1094 16 - 12 - 1971 15--12-- 1972 त्रिचीस्टील रोलिग मिल्म लि०, संरचना इस्पात ( मानक 
8 - 6 --1965 

सनातनीपुरम , गोल्डन रांक , फिस्म ) - - 

तिरूचिरापल्ली ( तमिलनाडु ) IS: 226- 1969 
87 सी एम / एल - 1095 16 - 12 - 1971 15 - 12-- 1972 

संरचना इस्पात ( साधारण 
8 - 6 - 1965 

किस्म ) --- 

IS : 1977 - 1969 
88 सी एम एल - 1120 16 -- 11 - 1971 31 - 8 - 1972 आन्ध्र स्टील कारपोरेशन लि०, संरचना इस्पात (मानक 
4 - 5 -1965 

मल्कापुरम , विशाखापतनम । किस्म ) 

IS: 226 - 1969 
89 सी एम / एल - 1121 16 - 11 - 1971 31 - 8 - 1972 

संरचना इस्पात ( माधारण 
4 -- 5 - 1965 

किस्म ) - -- 

IS : 1977 - 1969 
90 सी एम एल - 1149 16--12- 1971 15-- 12 - 1972 फोर्ट ग्लोस्टर इंडस्ट्रीज लि ., टाइप वोल्टताग्रेड चालक 
29 - 9 - 1965 

नौरिया , ( दक्षिण पूर्वी रेलवे ) ( क ) पी वी सी रोधित 

केबल 
( 1 ) इकहरी . 
कोर ( बिना 

खोल वाले ) 250/ 440 
( 2 ) छकहरी , 
कोर ( पी वी 
सी खोल 
वाले ) और 


650 / 1100 वो ० केबल एल्युमिनियम 


SFC. 3 ( i11 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4655 


- 


- . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- . - 


- 


- 


- - . . . .. 


- 


. . . . - 


. - - 


. 


- 


. 


( 3) गोल दुहरी ) 650/ 1100 
तीन तथा 
चार कोर । वो 
( पी 
वी मी खोल 
वाले ) 250/ 440 
( 4 ) चपटे केबल 

भूयोजन एल्युमि 
निरंतरता 

नयम 
चालक 
अथवा रहित 
( पी वी सी 

खोल वाल ) 
( 5 ) चपटे तीन 

कोर ( पी वी 
मी खोलवाले ) 
( ख ) पी वी सी राधित 

ल वकीली डोरियां 
( 6 ) दुही । 
मरोड़ी (बिना 
खोल वाली ) 
( 7 ) ममान्तर 
मुहरी ( बिना | 250/ 440 
खोल वाली ) के बल 
( 8 ) गोल तांना 
दुहरी, तिहरी 
और चार कोर 
वाली पीवी 
मीखोल वाली ) 
IS : 694 ( भाग 1 और 

2 ) - - 1964 
16 - 12 - 1971 15 - 12- 1972 फोर्ट ग्लोस्टर इंदस्ट्रीज लि . , पी वी सी रोधित ( भारी 

बौरिया , दक्षिण पूर्वी रेलवे ड्यूटी ) बिजली के केबल , 

1100 वोल्ट तक की 
कार्यकारी वोल्टता के 
लिये- - - 
IS : 1554( भाग 1 ) 

1964 
1 - 1-- 1972 31 - 12 - 1972 इंडो इंजीनियरिंग ( कोटा ) प्रा० शिरोपरि पावर प्रेषण कार्यों 

लि , इंडस्ट्रियल इस्टेट , कोटा के लिये सन्त खिचे लह 
( राजस्थान ) 

दार एल्युमिनियम पीर 
इस्पात की कोर वाले 
एल्युमिनियम चालक 
IS : 398-- 1961 


91 सी एम / एल --1182 

150- 12--1965 


02 सी एम / एल - 1186 

23 - 12 - 1965 


4656 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II-- - 


2 


93 सी एम / एल - 1237 

1 - 4 - 1966 


94 सी एम /एल-- 1258 

5 - 5 - 1966 


16 - 12-- 1971 15 - 12 - 1972 फार्ट ग्लोस्टर इंडस्ट्रीज लि० , बिजली सप्लाई के लिये 

बौरिया , दक्षिण पूर्वी रेलवे कागज रोधित सीसे के 

खोलदार एल्युमिनियम 
चालकों वाले केबल , 33 
कि० बो० तक --- 

IS : 692 - 1965 
1 - 11 - 1971 36 - - 1972 जीप फ्लैशलाइट इंडस्ट्रीज लि०, फ्लैशलाइट ---- 

28, साउथ रोड, इलाहाबाद IS : 2083-- 1962 

( उ० प्र० ) 
16-- 12 - 1971 15 - 6 - 1972 किसान केमिकल्स , 127, इंडस्ट्रियल एन्छिन का पायसनीय 

एरिया , चंडीगढ़ 

तेज द्रव- --- 

IS : 1310 - 1958 
16 - 12 - 1971 15 - 6 - 1972 मंसुर इंसेक्टीसाइड्स कम्पनी ,( मान्ध्र ) एन्टिन का पायसनीय तेज 

टाईपल्ली , गुन्दर, जिला द्रव --- 

IS : 1310 - 1958 
1 - 1 - 1972 31 - 12 - 1972 स्थान इंडिया प्रा . लि . , 12 / 1 रंजकों से बनी फाउंटेन पेन 

मथुरा रोड , डाकघर अमरनगर, की स्याहियां (नीली, हरी 
फरीदाबाद । 

लाल ) 


95 सी एम / एल - 1273 

31- 5 - 1966 


96 सी एम /एल-- 1275 


97 सी एम / एल--1342 

30 - 9 - 1956 


98 सी एम / एल - 1359 

30 - 11 - 1966 


IS : 1221 - 1957 
1 - 12- 1971 31 - 5- 1972 स्काइटीन इलेक्ट्रिकल्स ( इंडिया ) ऋतुमह पोलीइथाईलीन 

43, इंडस्ट्रियल एरिया , फरी- रोधित टेप सहित अथवा 
दाबाद । 

टेप रहित , ब्रेडेड तथा 
सहमिलित एल्युमिनियम 
चालकों वाले केबल , इक 
हरी कोर , 250/ 440 और 
650 / 1100 वो० ग्रेड 

और दुहरी कोर 250/ 440 
वो० ग्रेड - - 
IS : 3035 ( भाग 2 ) 

1965 
1 - 11 - 1971 31 - 10- 1972 अन्नपूर्णा पुल्वराइजिंग मिल्स , पैराथियोन पायसनीय तेज 

इंडस्ट्रियल इस्टेट, पश्चिम गोदावरी, द्रव - - 

एलर, जिला ( आन्ध्र प्रदेश ) IS : 2129 - 1968 
16 - 11 - 1971 15 - 5 - 1972 ग्रेडले इलेक्ट्रिकल्स ( इंडिया ) , तापनम्य रोधित ऋतसह 

मिलिटरी पैरेड रोड , निरंकारी केबल - -- 
कालोनी , दिल्ली । 

( 1 ) पोलीइथाइलीन रो 
धित , टेप लगे अरेड और 
सहमिलित दुहरे चपटे 
एल्युमिनियम पालकों वाले 
250/ 440 वोल्टता ग्रेग, 
पौर इकहरी कोर एल्यू 
मिनियम चालकों वाले 


99 सी एम /एल - 1374 

28 - 12 - 1966 


100 सी एम / एल - 1463 

16 - 6 - 1967 


- - 


। । 


। 


. 


. . 


- 


- - 


1 


। 


। 


। - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- - 


- - - - - 


- 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4657 


2 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


101. सी एम / एल - 1470 

7 - 7 - 1967 


101. सी एम/एन-1470 16-12 


250/ 440 और 650 / 
1100 वोल्टता ग्रेड - - 
IS : 30 35 ( भाग 2 ) - - 
1965 
( 2 ) पालीइथाईलीन रो 
धित और पालीइथाईलीन 
खोलदार एल्यूमिनियम 
चालकों वाले इकहरी 
कोर 650 / 1100 वोल्टता 
ग्रेव. और सपटे दुहरी कोर 

250/ 440 वोल्टता ग्रेड-- - 

IS . 3035 ( भाग 3) - 1967 
16 - 12 - 1971 15- 12 - 1972 फार्ट ग्लोस्टयर इंडस्ट्रीज लि . , ऋतुमह पी वी सी रोधित 

बौरिया , दक्षिण पूर्वी रेलवे । और पी वी सी खोलवाले 

निम्नलिखित प्रकार के ऐल्य 
मिनियम चालकों वाले 
केबल 
( 1 ) इकहरी कोर, 250/ 
440 और 650 / 1100 
वोल्ट ग्रेड -- - 
( 2) चपटे दुहरी कोर, 
250/ 440 और 650 / 
1100 वोल्ट ग्रेड - ~-- 
IS : 3035 ( भाग 1 ) - -- 
1965 
( ख ) केवल निम्न प्रकार 
के अतुमह पोलीइथाइलीन 
रोधित, टेप सहित थ्रेडेड 
पौर सहमिलित एल्यूमि 
नियम चालकों वाले केबल - - 
( 1 ) इकहरी कोर 250 / 
440 और 650 / 
1100 वोल्ट ग्रेड - - 
( 2 ) चपटे , दहरी कोर, 250 / 
440 और 650 / 
1100 योल्ट ग्रेड 
IS : 3035 ( भाग 2 ) 

- 1965 
16 - 12-- 1971 15 - 12-- 1972 कीन पेस्टीसाइड्स प्रा . लि . , एन्ड्रिन का पायसनीय तेज 

दक्षिण बड़ाकुलम , वराम्ता द्रव - - 
पाल्वायम , केरल । 

IS : 1310 - 1958 
16 - 11 - 1971 15 - 11 - 1972 दि फर्टीलाइजर्स एण्ड केमिकल्स अमोनियम क्लोराइड शद्ध 

लि , उद्योग मंडल डाकघर , ग्रेड, टाइप 1 ( बैटरियों 
ट्रावनकोर , केरल । 

तथा सूखी मेलों के लिये ) 
IS : 1113- 1965 


102. सी एम / एल - 1473 

13-- 7 - 1967 


1103. सी एम/एल-1559 _16-11 


103. सी एम / एल - 1559 

14 - 11 - 1967 


4658 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21 , 1972/ ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II 


: 


104. मी एम / एल - 1562 16 - 11 - 1971 15 -- 11 - 1972 जीडोनील इंडस्ट्रीज़ ( प्रा ) लि ., चाय की पेटियों के लिये 
14 - 11 - 1967 

15 , दमदम रोड कलकत्सा - 30 धातू के फिटिंग - - 
, 

IS : 10 - 1964 
105. सी एम / एल -- 1569 16--12-- 1971 15 - 12-- 1972 कीन पेस्टीसाइड्स प्रा . लि० , मालाथियोन पायसनीय सेज 
24-- 11 - 1967 

दक्षिण बडाकुलम, बरास्ता अल्वाय , द्रव- -- 
केरल । 

IS : 2567 - 1963 
108. सी एम / एल - 1578 1--12-- 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 जय केमिकल्स , 14/ 1, मथुरा बी एच सी घलन पाउडर 
1 - 12--1967 

रोड , फरीदाबाद, ( हरयाणा ) IS : 561 -1962 
107. मी एम / एल -- 159 1 1 - 1 - 1972 31 - 12-- 1972 दिविजय मेटल इंडस्ट्रीज , बी 34, डोर क्लोजर ( द्रव नियंत्रण ) 
1 - 12 - 1967 

फेज 2, मायापुरी , रिवाड़ी लाइन केवल 1, 2 और 3 साइज ----- 
इंडस्ट्रियल एरिया , नई दिल्ली - IS : 3564 --1966 

27 
108. सी एम / एल - 1601 1 - 1 - 1972 31 - 12--1972 ए० मेसमाइजर जूनियर ( इंडिया ) कस्तूरी अम्बर -- 
1 - 1 - 1968 

प्रा० लि०, ग्रांड सदर्न ट्रंक रोड, IS: 3131 - 1965 

मद्रास - 44 
109, सी एम / एल - 1502 1 - 1 --197231 - 12 - 1972 

कस्तुरी जाइलोल 

IS : 3145 - 1960 
110. सी एम / एल - 1604 1 -12--1971 30 - 11 - 1972 जैपुर टीचेस्ट फिटिंग मैन्यु० के०, चाय की पेटियों के लिये 
5 -- 1 - 1968 

डाकघर जैपुर , नहरकटिया , धातु के फिटिंग---- 

लखीमपुर ( उपरीअसम ) IS : 10 -1964 
111. सी एम / एल - 1613 1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 जय केमिकल्स , 141, मथुरा रोड , मालाथियोन पायसनीय तेज 
9 - 10- 1988 

फरीदाबाद , ( हरयाणा ) 

IS : 2567 - 1963 
112. मी एम / एल - 16 42 1 - 11 - 1971 30 -- 10 -- 2972 अन्नापूर्णा पुल्चराइजिंग मिल्म , मालाथियोन का पायसनीय 
23 - 2 - 1968 

इंडस्ट्रियल इस्टेट , एलूर , पं० नेज द्रव - - 
गोदावरी जिला 

IS : 2567 - 1963 
113. सीएम / एल - 1649 16 - 11 - 1971 15 - 11 -- 1972 अग्रवाल हाईवेयर वर्स प्रा . लि . , कंक्रीट प्रवलन के लिये ठंडी 
8 - 3 - 1968 

167 , चितरंजन एवेन्यू , कल- मरोड़ी विकृत इस्पात की 
कत्ता । 

सरिया ---- 

____ IS : 1786 - 1966 
114. सी एम / एल - 1700 16- 12 - 1971 15 --12 - 1972 पेस्टीसाइडम इंडिया , उदयसागर बीजों में लगाने के कार्बनिक 
17 - 5 - 1968 

रोड, उदयपुर , ( राजस्थान ) पारे के पदार्थ - - 

IS : 3284-- 1965 
115 . सी एम / एल - 1719 16 - 12-- 1971 15 -- 12 - 1972 अमृत बनस्पति कं० लि . , जी . 18, लीटर ममाई वाले 
12- 6 - 1968 

टी . रोड, गाजियाबाद वर्गाकार टिन - - 

IS : 916-- 1965 
116. मी एम / एल - 1788 1 - 10- 1971 10- 9 - 1972 दि एस्सो स्टैण्डर्स इंका, एस्सो हेक्सेन , खाद्यग्रेड - - 
6 - 9 - 1968 

बिलिंग, 17 - जमशेदपुर जी० IS : 3470-- 1966 

टाटा रोड, बम्बई - 4 
117. सी एम एल - 18211 - 11 - 1971 31 - 10 - 1972 मोतीलाल पेस्टीसाइड्स इंडिया , बी एच एस घलन पाउ . 
25 - 10 - 1968 

मसानी-दिल्ली रोड, मथुरा , डर - - 
( उ० प्र० ) 

IS : 561 - 1962 


. - 


. -- - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - - - 


- 


SEC. 3 ( 1 ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 


4659 


- 


- 


- 


. 


- . 


. 


. 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


__ 1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


118. सी एम/ एल -- 1830 

11 - 11 - 1968 


119. सी एम / एल - 1840 

22 - 11 -- 1968 


16-- 11 - 1971 15 - 5 - 1972 अनसंस इलैक्ट्रोमैकेनिकल बस , तीन फेजी स्क्वेरल केज नुमा 

अगावी इंडस्ट्रियल इस्टेट , वोट प्रेरण मोटर श्रेणी ए के 
रोड , सुभाष नगर , जोगेश्वरी रोधन लगे, 0 . 37 कि० 
( पूर्व ), बम्बई- 60 

बा० ( 0 . 5 हा ० पा० ) ; 
0 . 55 कि०वा ० ( 0 . 75 
हा पा० ) ; 75 कि०वा . 
( 1 हा पा०) ; 1 . 1 
कि ०वा ( 1 . 5हा०पा०) ; 
1 . 5 कि०वा ० ( 2 हा० 
पा० ) और 2 . 2 कि०वा० 
( 3 हा पा० ) 

IS: 325 - 1961 
1 -12- 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 इंडीक्ले, प्लाट सं० 2, उद्योग नगर, मालाथियोन का पायसनीय 

गोरे गांव, बम्बई - 62 

तेज व 

IS : 2567 -- 1963 
1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 -- 1972 

बी एच सी जलविसर्जनीय 
तेज चूर्ण 

IS : 562- 1962 
1 - 12-- 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 दि केरल इलेक्ट्रिकल एण्ड इलाइड तीन फेजी प्रेरण मोटरें 

इंजीनियरिंग कम्पनी लि . , ए श्रेणी के रोधन लगे , 
कंजीराकोड , कुंडला , ( केरल ) 2. 2कि ०वा ० ( 3 हा०पा० 

से 7 . 5 कि०या० ( 10 
हा० पा ) -- - 

IS : 325- 1961 
1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 इंडीक्ले , प्लाट सं० 2, उद्योगनगर, ताम्र प्राक्सीक्लोराइड का 

गोरे गांव , बम्बई - 62 

जलविसर्जनीय तेज पाउ 


120. 


सी एम / एल - 1841 
22- 11 - 1968 


121 . सी एम / एल - 1842 

25 - 11 - 1960 


122. सी एम / एल - 1843 

27 - 11 - 1968 


123. मी एम / एल --1853 

6 -- 12 - 1968 


124 . सी एम / एल - 1854 

6 - 12 - 1968 


IS : 1507- 1961 
1 - 12--1971 30 - 11 - 1972 इंडोक्ले , प्लाट सं० 2, उद्योगनगर , एन्छिन का पायसनीय तेज 

गोरे गांव, बम्बई - 62 द्रव - - 

IS : 1310 - 1958 
16 -12 - 1971 15 - 12 - 1972 द्रावनकोर इलेक्ट्रो केमिकल इंड - कैल्शियम कार्बाइड तकनीकी , 

स्ट्रीज लि . ,चिगंवनम् डाकघर, किस्म ए और बी 

जिला कोट्टायम ,( केरल ) IS: 1040 - 1960 
16 - 12-- 1971 15 - 12 - 1972 सीमेंट वाटर प्रूफिंग आफ इंडिया साधारण सेटिंग वाला जल 

2, प्रिंस अनवर शाहरोड, रोक बनाने का सीमेंट का 
कलकत्ता - 33 

समेकित मसाला- - - 

IS: 2645 - 1964 
1 - 1 - 1972 31 - 12 - 1972 कैम्फर एण्ड एलाइड प्रॉडक्ट्स कपूर , तकनीकी ग्रेड -- - 

लि०, डाकषर क्लटर बकगंज , IS: 3584 - 1966 
बरेली, ( उ०प्र० ) 


125. सी एम / एल - 1877 

23 - 12 -- 1968 


126. 


सी एम / एल - 1878 
27 - 12 - 1968 


4660 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II — 


- - - . ..-- . 


- 


- -- - ..- - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


(1 ) 


( 2) 


( 3) 


( 4 ) 


( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


- -- - - - - - - - - 


_ _ _ 


. -- - 


- - - - - - - - -- - - 


127 सी एमएल - 1881 

30 - 12 - 1968 


128 सी एम / एल - 1902 

23 - 1 - 1969 
129 सी एम / एल - 19 36 

17 - 3 - 1969 


130 


मी एम / एल - 2014 
9 - 7 -- 1969 


131 सी एम एल - 2018 

11 - 7 - 1969 


132 सी एम / एल - 2076 

22 - 9 - 1969 


1 - 1 - 1972 31 - 12 - 1972 इ० एम०सी० संगम वर्म, जी०टी० शिरोपरि पावर प्रेषण कार्यों 

रोड इलाहाबाद ( उ०प्र० ) के लिए सख्त खिचे लड़दार 

एल्युमिनियम और इस्पात 
की कोर वाले एल्युमिनियम 
चालक - - 

IS: 398 - 1961 
1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 प्राग्नी मिनरल्म , 15/ 7 मश्रुग- बी एच मी धूलन पाउडर - - 

रोड, फरीदाबाद ( हरयाणा ) IS : 561 - 1962 
1 - 1 - 1972 31 - 12 - 1972 ऐडियन प्लाइवुड इंडस्ट्रीज ( प्रा० ) चाय की पेटियों के लिए 

लि०, पाड़ीवट्टम एडापल्ली फ्लाइट के तख्ते - - 
डाकघर , एर्नाकुलम जिला IS: 10 - 1964 

( केरल ) 
1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 इंडीकले, प्लाट सं0 2 उद्योगनगर डी डी टी जल विसर्जनीय 

एम० पी० रोड , गोरेगांव तेज पाउडर ---- 
बम्बई - 62 

IS : 565 - 1961 
1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 जय केमिकल्स , 14/ 1 मथुरा रोड , एल्डिन का पायसनीय तेज 

फरीदाबाद ( हरयाणा ) 

द्रव - - 

IS : 1310 - 1958 
1 - 11 - 1971 31 -- 10 - 1972 अन्नपूर्णा पुरुषराइजिंग मिल्स , ताम्र पाक्सीक्लोराइड जल 

इंडस्ट्रियल इस्टेट , एलूरु प० विसर्जनीय तेज धूर्ण 

गोदावरी जिला ( प्रा० प्र० ) IS : 1507 - 1966 
1 - 1 - 1972 31 - 12 - 1972 इंडस्ट्रियल मिनरल्स एण्ड केमि - एलिइन का पायसनीय तेज 

कल्स , क० प्रा० लि० , कुरला द्रव -- 
मरोल रोड, चकला ; अंधेरी, IS : 1307 -1958 

बम्बई - 58 
16 - 12 - 1971 15 - 12 - 1972 यूनीक इंडस्ट्रीज , नाडियाड्- पेटं - सारे एल्युमिनियम चालक 

लाड नहर के समीप नाडियाड़ और ए सी एस प्रार 
जिला कैरा , ( गुजरात ) चालक 

IS : 398 - 1961 
16 - 10 - 1971 15 - 4 - 1972 हिन्दुस्तान सेनीटरीवेयर एण्ड इम्यू सी और मूत्रालयों में 

इंडस्ट्रीज लि० , बहादुरगढ़ ,जिला लगने वाली बाल्व रहित 
रोहतक 

( साइफन नुमा ) फलशिंग 
टंकियां - चीनी मिट्टी की 

IS : 774 - 1964 
16 - 10 - 1971 15 - 10 - 1972 

कांचाम सेनीटरी साधन 

( चीनी मिट्टी ) 
( 1 ) मलवाही उब्ल्यू सी 
( 2 ) मलवाही डब्ल्यू सी 
पैटर्न 1 आगे और पीछे 
400 मिमी ऊंचाई वाले 
IS : 2556 ( भाग 2 ) - - 
1967 


133 सी एम / एल - 2084 

30 - 9 - 1964 


___ 134 सी एम / एल - 2097 

30 - 9 - 1969 


135 सी एम / एल - 21 15 

26-- 10 - 1969 


136 मी एमएल - 2116 

16 - 10 - 1969 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 
- - - -- - - - -- - - - - 

-- 


4661 
- - - - . - . : ---- -- . 


. . . - 


- 


- - . 


. - - 


- 


( 3 ) लम्बे पैन की बैठने 
वाले नमूने की टट्टियां 
630 मिमी , 580 मिमी 
तथा 680 मिमी साइज 
वाली 
( 4 ) बैठने वाली टट्टियाँ 
उड़ीसा नमूने की , 630 
मिमी , 400 मिमी 
580 मिमी 440 मिमी 
साइज -- - 
IS: 2556 - ( भाग 3 ) 

1967 
( 5 ) समतल पीठदार 
वाश बेसिन 450 : 300 
मिमी ; 550X400 मिमी 
और 630X 450 मिमी 

साइज 
( 6 ) 400X400 मिमी 
साइज , कोनेदार पीठ 
वाले वाश बेसिन 


( 7 ) वाश बेसिनों के 

पाद प्राधार 
IS : 25 5 6 ( भाग 4 ) - -- 
1967 


( 8 ) प्रयोगशालाओं की 
नाद साइज 
400 . 250, 150 मिमी 


IS : 2556 ( भाग 5 ) - - 

1967 
( 9 ) मूत्रदानियां ( चपटी 

पीठ वाली ) कटोरे नुमा 
( 10 ) बाऊल, पीछे 
कोणीय तिकोनी पीठ 
पाली 340 मिमी साइज , 
410 मिमी न्यूनतम , 265 
मिमी 
IS :- 255 6 ( भाग 6 ) 1967 


4662 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


( 1 ) 


( 2) 


( 3) 


( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


मलवाही अंग्रेजी 
टट्टियां ( फ्लश टंकियों 
वाली ) एस ट्रैप अथवा 
पी ट्रैप वाली सामने से 
दुहरी नमूने की (फ्लश 
की टंकियों वाली ) 
IS : 2556 ( भाग 8) 

1967 
( 12 ) बड़े बिडेट --- 
IS : 2556 ( भाग 9 ) -- 
1967 


137 


सी एम एल - 2121 
24 - 10 - 1969 


1 - 11 - 1971 31 - 10 - 1972 गेस्ट , कीन , विलियम लि . 97 - ( 1 ) काली छः कोणी 

अंदुल रोड़ , शालीमार हावड़ा - 3 ढिबरियां , काबले और 

तालक ढिबरियां ( 6 से 
39 मिमी ) और काले 
छ : कोणी पेंच ( 6 से 
24 मिमी व्यास वाले ) --- 
IS : 1363 - 1967 
( 2 ) परिशुद्धता और भी 
परिशुद्धता वाले छ: कोणी 
काबले , पेंचदार ढिबरियां 
और तालक ढेबरी ( 6 
से 39 मिमी व्यास वाले ) 
( पहला पुनरीक्षण ) 
IS : 1364- 1967 
( 3 ) खांचदार शंकुखनित 
सिरवाले और खांचदार 
उभरे शंकु खनित सिर 
वाले पेंच ( व्यास 1 . 6 
से 20 मि मी तक ) --- 
IS : 1365 - 1968 
( 4 ) खांचदार चीज नुमा 
सिरवाले पेंच ( व्यास 1 . 6 
से 20 मिमी तक ) -- - 
IS : 1366 -- 1968 
( 5 ) काले चौकोरे काबले 

और ढिबरियां ( व्यास 6 
से 39 मिमी ) और काले 
चौकोर पेंच (व्यास 6 
से 24 मिमी ) 
IS : 2585 - 1968 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4663 


SEC . 3 ( iijj 

- - - - - -- 
( 1 ) 


- - 


- 


- 


4 . . - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - .. . 


( 2 ) 


( 3) 


( 4) 


( 5 ) 


138 सी एम / एल - 21 28 

28- 10 - 1969 
139 सी एम / एल - 2144 

19 - 11 - 1969 


140 सी एम / एल - 2147 

26 - 11 - 1969 


___ 141 सी एम / एल - 2150 

26-- 11 - 1969 


142 सी एम / एल - 2152 

28 - 11 - 1969 


( 6 ) कोच काबले ( एम 

6 से एम 24 ) - -- 

IS : 2609 - 1964 
1 - 1 - 1972 31 - 12 -1972 इंडस्ट्रियल ट्रेडिंग कारपोरेशन 1 - बी एच मी धूलन पाउडर 

बेलूर रोड, लिलुवा, हावड़ा IS : 561 - 1962 
1 - 12 - 1971 31 -5 - 1972 बी० आर० हरमन एण्ड मोहता बालू ढले लोहे के मल 

( इंडिया ) प्रा . लि . , ढंडारी पाइप केबल 7 . 5 मिमी 
कलां, ढंडारी रेलवे स्टेशन और 100 मिमी साइजों 
के समीप लुधियाना (पंजाब ) के -- 

IS : 1729 - 1964 
1 - 12- 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 प्रोसवाल इलेक्ट्रिकल्स , 49 -- तीन फेजी प्रेरण मोटर , 

इंडस्ट्रियल एरिया , फरीदाबाद 0 . 75 किवा से 2 . 2 
( हरयाणा ) 

कि वा ए श्रेणी के 

रोधन वाले - - 

IS : 325 - - 1961 
16 - 12 - 1971 15 - 12 - 1972 रंका केबल कारपोरेशन, इंडस्ट्रि- सारे एल्युमिनियम और ए 

यल इस्टेट , कुडप्पा ( आंध्र सी एस और बालक - - 
प्रदेश ) 

IS : 398 - 1961 
1 - 12-- 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 इंडियन टी चेस्ट कं० , 7, सागर चाय की पेटियों के लिए धात 

दत्त लेन , कलकत्ता - 12 के फिटिंग 

___ IS : 10 - 1964 
1 - 12- 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 ईबा जमाल ग्रुप , निकट इंडियन 18 - लीटर समाई वाले 

आयल इस्टालेशन , स्वास्तिक वर्गाकार टिन --- 
प्रायल मिल्स के आगे बडाला , IS : 916 - 1966 

बम्बई - 31 
16 - 12 - 1971 31 - 3 - 1973 दि इंडिया पायरन एण्ड स्टील ब्यालरों के लिए इस्पात की 

___ कं० लि०, डाकघर बर्नपुर, जिला रिबेट और छड़ें - - 

बर्दवान (पं० बंगाल ) IS : 1990-- 1962 
16 - 12 - 1971 15 - 12 - 1972 दुर्लभ मेटल इंडस्ट्रीज प्रा० लि० , पिटवां एल्यमिनियम के 

हावड़ा इंडस्ट्रियल इस्टेट , शेड बर्तन ; एस आई सी ग्रेड - - 
सं० एल - 26, एल - 36 और IS : 21-- 1959 
एल - 37, डाकघर बाल्टीकुड़ी , 

हावड़ा 
16 - 12 - 1971 15 - 12 - 1972 पर्वत एण्ड कम्पनी , 34 एफ , चाय की पेटियों के लिए 

शिमला रोड , कलकत्ता - 6 धातु के फिटिंग - - 

IS : 10 - 1964 
16 - 12 --1971 15 - 12 - 1972 यूनीक ठंडस्ट्रीज , नाडियाड - ( 1 ) एल्युमिनियम प्रथया 

पेटलाड रोड नहर के समीप , तांबा के चालकों वाले 
नाडियाड, जिला कैरा 
( गुजरात ) 

बिना खोल वाले , इकहरे 
कोर 250/ 440 और 
650 /1100 वोल्ट ग्रेड 


143 सी एम / एल - 2160 

4 - 12 - 1969 


144 सी एम / एल - 2166 

8 - 12 - 1969 


145 सी एम / एल - 2167 

8 - 12-- 1969 


146 सी एम / एल - 2174 

12 - 12 - 1969 


147 


सी एम / एल - 2175 
16 - 12 - 1969 


के 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II. 
- - - 


- 


- 


- - - - - - 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


- 


4664 
-- - - - - - - - 

( 1 ) 
-- - - - - - - - 


( 2) 


( 3) 


( 4 ) 


( 5 ) 


- - - - -- - 


- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - 


- - - - - -- - -- - 


- - 


( 2 ) एल्युमिनियम अथवा 
तांबा के चालकों वाले 
पी वी सी रोधित और 
पी वी सी खोल वाले , 
इकहरी कोर , 250/ 440 
वी० ग्रेड के - - 
( 3 ) एल्युमिनियम चालकों 
वाले पी वी सी रोधित 

और पी वी सी खोल वाले 
केबल , दुहरे चपटे , 250/ 
440 वो० ग्रेड - - 
( 4 ) एल्युमिनियम चालकों 
वाले पी वी सी खोल 
वाले केबल , चार कोर 
650/ 100 वो० ग्रेड के -- 
IS : 694 ( भाग 1 और 

2 ) - 19 64 
एल्यूमिनियम चालकों वाले 
ऋतुसह पोलीइथाईलीन 
रोधित , टेप महित अथवा 
टेप रहित , ग्रेडेड और 
सहमिलित केबल , इक 
हरी कोर और चहरी 
कोर - 250 / 440 और 
650/ 1100 बोल्ट 


148 सी एम एल-816 


148 सी एम एल - 2183 

31 - 12 - 1969 


1 - 1 - 1972 31 - 12 - 1972 विक्टर केबल्म कारपोरेशन , 185, 

जी टी रोड , साहिबाबाद ( उ०५० ) 


ग्रेड 


IS: 3035 ( भाग 2 ) - 

1965 
149 सी एम / एल - 2191 __ 1-- 1 - 1972 31-- 12 - 1972 जातीय लौच शिल्प प्रतिष्ठान , चाय की पेटियों के लिए धातु 
31 - 12- 1969 

52/ 9, केनाल पूर्व रोड, के फिटिंग --- 
कलकत्ता - 11 

IS . 10 - 1964 
150 सी एम/ एल - 2202 1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 नफर चन्द्र जूट मिल्स लि०, भूत - ऊन पैक करने के नर जट 
8 - 1 - 1970 

नाथ कोल रोड , कांकीनाडा , के बोरे -- - 

पीएस जगतदल , 24 परगना IS: 4856 - 1968 
151 सी एम / एल - 22421 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 दि गंगा मैन्यू० कं० लि . बांस बे - ऊन पैक करने के नए जट के 
9 - 2 - 1970 

रिया , जिला हगली (पं0 बोरे - - 
बंगाल ) 

IS: 4856 - 1968 
152 सी एम एल -- 2340 16 -12- 1970 15 - 6-- 1972 दि प्रिफेक्ट पॉटरी फं० ( मध्य- लवण कांचाभ स्टोनवेयर 
१ - 6 - 1970 

भारत ) लि० , निकट पश्चिम पाइप ग्रेड ए और एए 
रेलवे हस्पताल, रतलाम केवल 100 मिमी, 150 
( म०प्र० ) 

मिमी , 200 मिमी , 230 
मिमी , 250 मिमी और 
300 मिमी साइज, --- 
IS : 651 .. 1965 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) ] 

-- - - - - 


4665 


. .. . 


. .. - - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 
__ _ . .- - 

-- - . . - .- . - = 
( 3 ) ( 4 ) 

( 5 ) 

( 6 ) 


- - - 


. : 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


- - - - - - 


15 3 मी एम / एल - 2377 16 - 12 - 1971 

28 - 7 - 1970 
154 मी /एम / एल - 2411 16 - 9- 1971 

28 - 9 - 1970 


155 


1 - 11 --1971 


मी एम /एल - 2427 

9 - 10 - 1970 


15--12- 1972 मृत्युंजय पार्कलैण्डस इंडस्ट्रीज , चाय की पेटियों की पट्टियां 

प्रोलेमा, कोट्टायम ( केरल ) IS : 10 - 1964 
15- 9- 1972 ए पार नागचौधरी एंड कं०, डाक - डोर क्लोजर ( द्रव नियं 

घर बरुईपुर, जिला 24-पर- त्रित ) - - 
गना 

IS : 3564- 1966 
15 - 12 - 1972 यूनीक इंडस्ट्रीज , नाडियाड -पेट - एल्युमिनियम चालकों वाले 

लार रोड , निकट माही नहर , पोलीथीन रोधित और 
पिपलई नाडियाड, जिला कैरा पी वी सी खोल वाले 
( गुजरात ) 

केबल , इकहरी , कोर 

और दुहरी कोर चपटे , 
250 / 440 वो० ग्रेड --- 

IS : 15 96 - 1962 
31 - 10 - 1972 दूजोडवाला इंडस्ट्रीज , 14 / 1, चीड़ का तेल ---- 

दिल्ली मथुरा रोड , फरीदाबाद IS : 5757 - 1970 
( हरयाणा ) 


1 - 11 - 1971 


156 सी एम एल - 2435 

27-- 10 - 1970 


157 


1 - 11 - 1971 


मी एम / एल - 2439 

30 - 10 - 1970 


1 - 11 - 1971 


158 सी एम एल - 2440 

30 - 10 - 1970 


15 - 7 - 1972 खानदेश पेस्टीसाइड्स प्रा . लि . , डी डी टी घलन पाउडर -- . 

स्टेशन रोड, धरनगाव, IS : 564-- 1962 

__ जिला जलगांव (पं० रेलवे ) 
15 - 7 - 1972 

एन्छिन का पायसनीय तेज 

द्रव ---- 

IS : 13 10 - 1958 
15 - 7 - 1972 

डी डी टी का पायसनीय तेज 
द्रव - - 


1 - 11 - 1971 


159 सी एम एल - 2441 

30 - 10 - 1970 


160 सी एम / एल - 2443 

30 - 10 - 1970 


161 सी एम एल - 2447 

4 - 11 - 1970 
162 मी एम /एल - 2451 

6 - 11 - 1970 


1 - 11 - 1971 31- 10- 1972 भोरुका उद्योग , बड़ा मंदिर पानी - 20 लीटर समाई वाले इस्पात 

हटी डाकघर , 

के ड्रम -ग्रेड बी - 2 ( अस्त 

___ चढ़े ) -- 
24 - परगना 

IS : 25 5 2 - 1963 
16 - 11 - 1971 15 - 11-- 1972 जाय प्राइसक्रीम, 82, डा० एनी - प्राइसक्रीम -- 

बसन्त रोड, वोर्ली, बम्बई- 18 IS : 2802 - 1966 
16 - 11-- 1971 15 - 11 - 1972 कुट्टी फ्लश डोर एंड फर्नीचर कं० लकड़ी के पैनेल तथा कांच 

प्रा० लि , पुनामल्ली हाई लगे किवाड़ - - 

रोड , कोयम्बेडु -मद्रास - 49 IS : 1003 ( भाग 1) 1968 
16-- 11 - 1971 15 - 11-- 1972 

, 

लकड़ी के दरवाजों , खिड़ 
कियों और रोशनदानों 
के चौखटे 

IS : 4021 - 1967 
16 - 11 - 1971 15 -- 11 - 1972 एस के आबिद अली, 9, मैलेयोड चाय की पेटियों के लिए धात 

स्ट्रीट, कलकत्ता - 17 

के फिटिंग 
IS : 10 - 1964 


163 सी एम / एल - 2452 

6 - 11 - 1970 


164 सी एम/ एल - 2453 

6 - 11 - 1970 


4666 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II . 


( 1) 


( 2) 


( 3) 


( 4 ) 


( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


165 सी एम / एल - 2455 

12 - 11 - 1970 


16 - 11 - 1971 


15 - 5 - 1972 एवरशाइन इलेक्ट्रिकल वर्क्स ( इंडिया ) 1 ) एल्युमीनियम चालकों 

16/ 10 ; इंडस्ट्रियल एरिया , वाले पी वी सी रोधित 
कीर्तिनगर , नई दिल्ली 

केबल , बिना खोल वाले , 
इकहरी कोर- 250 / 440 

650/ 1100 वोल्ट ; और 
( 2 ) एल्युमीनियम चालकों 

वाले पी वी सी रोधित 
केबल , खोल वाले , 
इकहरे कोर -~- 250) 
440 और 650/ 1100 

वो . 
IS : 694 ( भाग 2 ) 
1964 


166 सी एम / एल - 2456 16 - 11 - 1971 15 - 11 - 1972 मिल्क प्रोडक्टस फैक्टरी, विद्याधर- दूध का पाउडर ( खालिस 
___ 12 - 11 - 1970 

पुरम , विजयवाड़ा ( प्रा० प्र० ) और सेपरेटा ) -- 

IS: 1165 - 1967 
167 सी एम/ एल - 2459 1 - 12 - 1970 30 - 11 - 1972 विजय इंडस्ट्रीज 36/ 1/ 1, कैनाल 20-लीटर समाई वाले 
13 - 9 - 1971) 

इस्पात के ड्रम ग्रेड 
बी , ( बिना जस्ता चढ़े ) 

IS : 2552 - 1970 
168 सी एम एल - 2461 1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 योगीराज केमिकल लेबोरेटरीज, सही करने का द्रव ---- 
30 - 11 - 1970 

गिल रोड, मिलर गंज लुधियाना IS: 4175 - 1967 
169 सी एम एल - 2462 1 - 12 -- 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 हिन्दुस्तान गम एंध केमिकल्स लि० , पशु आहार के रूप में 
30 -- 11 - 1970 

बिरला कालोनी , भिवानी गुवार का काटा -- 
( हरयाणा ) 

IS : 4193 - 1967 
170 सी एम/ एल - 2463 1 - 12 - 1971 31 - 3 - 1973 मेहसाना डिस्ट्रिक्ट कोआपरेटिव शिशुषों के लिए दूध पाहार 
30 - 11 -- 1970 

मिल्क प्रोडक्टस यूनियन लि० , IS : 1547 - 1968 
दूध नगर डेरी , मेहसाना ( गुज 

रात ) 
171 सी एम / एल - 2464 1 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 चालिहा रोलिंग मिल्स ( प्रा . ) रोशनदानों के लिए बोल्लित 
30 - 11 - 1970 

लि० , 13, चन्दीतल्ला लेन , इस्पात सेक्शनों के फ्रेम की 
टालीगंज 55, नेताजी सुभाष छड़ें - --- 

चन्द्र बोस रोड , कलकत्सा - 44 
172 सी एम / एल - 24731 - 12 - 1971 30 - 11 - 1972 ज्योति वायर इंडस्ट्रीज, महाजन मारे एल्युमीनियम बालक 
[ 3 - 12 - 1970 

का प्रहाता, बम्बई- आगरा रोड , और एसी एस प्रार 
विखरौली , बम्बई - 79 

बालक --- 

IS : 398 - 1961 
173 सी एम / एल - 2475 1 - 12 - 1971 31 - 3 - 1973 टाटा पायरन एंड स्टील के लि०, चुम्बकीय परिपथों के 
3 - 12 - 1970 

जमशेदपुर । 

लिए अनमोरिन्टेड 
विद्युत इस्पात की चद्दरें । 
IS : 647- 1970 


Sec . 3 ( 1) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : CTOBER 21 , 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4667 


( 1) 


(2 ) 


(3) 


(4 ) 


( 5 ) 


(6 ) 


174 


16 - 12 - 1971 


15 - 12 - 1972 


H / 7 - 2482 
10 - 12 - 1970 


Flash firef # 471 Ft 446, 474 4121 Fahrett 

To foto gaELT 274 4759 100 fHÁT 
( 7 ) 

4TH TE --- 
IS : 651– 1965 


175 


1 - 1 - 1972 


15 - 4 - 1972 a 


54 / 521 - 2485 
23 - 12 - 1970 


Tut pofTCH 13 HigifTa Fir Trata 
fHATH , 6 / 303, facrifa for ga - - 
4T, TETTE , HOTF -81 IS : 2567-- 1963 


176 


1 - 1 - 1972 


T / V - 2496 
29 - 12 - 1970 


31 - 12 - 1972 Ara AT957 sis 28, 13 / 6 

11, farm - 78 , 
गाजियाबाद 


12 . 5 TTT YHTE atsit 
ऊंचाई पर लगने वाली 
( घंटे नुमा ) ढलवां लोहे 

की फ्लश की टंकियां 
IS : 774- 1964 


(# opto Hoxto : 13:12 ] 


S . 0 . 3313 . In pursuance of sub - rule ( 1 ) of rulr 4 of the Indian Standards Inzt tut on (Cert ficat on Marks ) Rules , 5945 the 
Indian Standard : Inst tution hereby not fies that the Standard Mark (s ) , design (s ) of wh ch together wih tre voitul desct pt ons 
the design (s ) and he title (s ) of the relevent Ind an Standard (s ) are given n the Schedule hereto annexed , / have been specified . 


These Standard Mark (s ) for the purpose of Ind an Standards Inst tut‘on ( Cert ficat on Marks ) Act , 1952 and the 
Rules and Regulat ons framed there under , shall come into force w th effect from the dates shown aga nst each : 


THE SCHEDULE 


Dizn of the 
Standard Mark 4 


Product/ C ! 197 of Pro luct 


to. Babaeng Marika 


Prolastic!293 of Pro luct 


Date of Effect 


No. ani Title of the 

Relevant Indian 
Standard 


Verbal descr pt on of the 
Design of the Standard 

Mark 


(4 ) 


(5) 


- 


Blackheart malleable 
cistings 


iron 


16 July 1972 


11 - 200 


IS : 2108- 1952 Specifi . 

cation for balckheart 
nalleable iron cat ng 


The monogram of the Ind an 
Standards Inst tut on , con 
8 :51 ng of letters ISI drawn 
in the exact style and 
relit ve proport ons as 
indicated in col. No. ( 2 ), 
the number designat on of 
the Indian Standard being 
super cr bed on the top of 
$ de or the monogram ag 
indicated in the design , 


Sodiu nı bicarbonate 


192124 


IS : 2124 -1962 Specifi 
cation for sodium 
bicarbonate . 


The monogram of the Ind an 1 August 1972 
Standards Inst tution , 
cong sting of letters SI 
drawn in the exact style and 
relat ve proportions as 
indicated in Col. ( 2 ) , the 
number des gnation of the 
Indian Standard being 
guperscribed on the top 
gide of the monogram as 
indicated in the design . 


[No.C .MD ./ 13 :16 


4668 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II 


एम० प्रो० ५31 3.---- समय समय पर संशोधित भारतीय मानक संस्था (प्रमाणन चिहन ) नियम 1955 के नियम 4 के उपनियम ( 1 ) 
के अनुसार भारतीय मानक संस्था की और से अधिसूचित किया जाता है कि जिस मानक चिन्ह की डिजाइन और शाबिक विवरण तत्सम्बन्धी 
भारतीय मानक के शीर्षक सहित अनुसूची में दिए गए हैं , भारतीय मानक संस्था द्वारा निर्धारित किया गया है । 

भारतीय मानक संस्था ( प्रमाणन चिन्ह ) अधिनियम , 1952 और उसके अधीन बने नियमों के निमित यह मानक चिन्ह प्रत्येक के आगे दी गई 
तिथिमों से लागू हो जाएगा : 


अनुसूची 


क्रम 
संख्या 


मानक चिन्ह की उत्पादन तथा उन्पाद का वर्ग मम्बद्ध भारतीय मानक की 
डिजाइन 

पद संख्या और शीर्षक 


लागू होने की तिथि 


भारतीय मानक चिन्ह की 
डिजाइन का शीर्षक का 
विवरण 


1710 


लैकहार्ट वर्थ्य लोहे की तली IS : 2108-- 1962ब्लैकहार्ट भारतीय मानक संस्था का 16 जुलाई 1972 
वस्तुएं 

वयं लोहे की ढली वस्तुप्रों मोनोग्राम जिसमें ISI 
की विशिष्टि 

शब्द होते हैं स्तम्भ ( 2 ) में 
दिखाई शैली और अनुपात 
में तैयार किया गया है और 
जैसा दिखाया गया है उस 
मोनोग्राम के ऊपर की ओर 
भारतीय मानक की संस्था 

पी हुई है । 
सोलियम बाइकानों नेट IS : 2124 - 1962 सोडियम भारतीय मानक संस्था का 1 अगस्त 1972 
माहकायानेट की विशिष्टि मोमोग्राम जिसमें ISI 

शम्य होते हैं स्तम्म ( 2 ) में 
दिखाई शैमी पौर अनुपात 
में तैयारकिया गया है पौर 
जैसा दिखाया गया है उस 
मोमोग्राम के ऊपर की पोर 
भारतीय मानक संस्था की 
संध्या दी गई है । 


12424 


- 


- 


[ संख्या सी० डी० एम० 13: 9 ] 
Nw Delhi , I9th September 1972 
S . O . 3314. - Corrification Marke Licences details of which are mentioned in the Ichedule givet: herceftcs tard JEFECC 
or their renewale cferred : 

THE SCHEDULE 


No . 


Licence No . & Name & Address of the Licenccc 

Date of Issue 


Article/ Process and the 
relevant IS : Designation 


S . O . Number 
Date of the 
Gazette Notifying 
Grant of Licence 


Remarks 


( 3 ) 


I . CM/ L - 1200 

19- 1 - 1966 


S. O . 525 dated 
___ 19- 2 -1966 . 


Lireed aftel 


Hindustan National Glass Mfg. Glass milk bottles. ..IS :1392- 

Co. Ltd. , Bahadurgarh, Distt . 1967. 
Rohtak ( Haryana ) 


30 - 6- JE . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


SEC. ( i) ] 


THB GAZETTB OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


- 


- 


HAMIN 


( 3 ) 
2 . CM / L - 1242 . Plava Chemicals , 3 C Nelson 
14 - 4 - 1966 Manicka Mudaliar Road , 

Aminji Karai, Madras 29 
3 . CM/ L -1304 

Do. 
28- 7 -1966 


Endrin emulsifiable concen . 

trates -IS : I310 - 1958 
BHC dustingpowders --.IS : 

567 - 1962 


S . O . 1551 dated Deferred after 31 - 7 - 1972 

28 - 5 -1966 
5 . 0 . 2600 dated Deferred after 31 - 7 - 1972 

27 - 8 -1966 


4 . CM/ L - 1598 

27 - 12- 1967 


Murarka Engineering Works , 
28/ 37 IndustrialArea , Najaf - 
garh Road , New Delhi 15 


Spring leaves and leaf springs S . O . 284dated 
for automobile suspension -- 20 - 1 -1968 
IS : II35 - 1966 


Renewal was deferred after 
15 - 8 -1971 ; thelicer. ce now 
stands lapsed after 
that date. 
Deferred after 30 - 6 - 1972 


5 . CM / L - 1873 Joy Ice Cream ( Bangalore ) Ice cream - IS : 2802 - 1964 
23 - 12- 1968 Pvt . Ltd , Main Road , Whitefield , 

Bangalore Distt. 


S . O . 370 dated 

25 - 1 -1969 


6 . CM/ L - 19681 

____ 13 - 5 -1969 


Deferred after 30 - 4 - 1972 


Harbans Lal Malhotra & Sons 

Pvt. Ltd , 20 Barrackpore - 
Trunk Road , Balgharia, 
24 Parganas . 


Hacksaw blades , hand operated s . O . 2551 
and heavy power operated - dated 28- 6 -1969 

IS : 2594- 1963 


9. CM61,723692 Kbahadang Ren,icili sot Palegaonto , 


7 . CM /L -2347 Saurashtra Iron Foundry & Steel 18 - litre square tins- . IS : 916 - S . O . 3429 dated Lapsed after 20 - 6 - 1972 
19 - 6 - 1970 Works Pvt Ltd , Bunder Road , 1966 

24 - 10 -1970 
Bhavnagar ( Guj) 
8 . CM / L - 2355 Aluminium Udyog , 15 Daspara Extruded aluminium butt S . O . 3429 dated Defeired after 15 - 7 - 1972 
1 30 - 6 -1970 Road , Calcutta 4 

_ hinges - IS : 205- 1966 24- 10 - 1970 
Khandesh Pesticides Pvt. Ltd , DDT water dispersible powder s . O . 2109 Deferred after 15 - 7 -1972 
Dharangaon, Distt Jalgaon , concentrates - - IS : 565 - 1961 dated 29 - 5 - 197I 

W . Rly. ] 
10 . MC /L -2469 GoyalIndustrial Corpn , 14 / 5 Wooden flush door shutters S . O . 3593 Renewalwas deferred aftea 
30 - II - I970 Mathura Road , Faridabad (solid core type ), with ply - dated 2 - 10 -1971 31 - 5 -1972, thelicer. cercw 
(Haryana ) wood face panels - IS : 

stands lapsed after that 
2202 (Part I ) ---1966 

date . 
II . CM / L - 2585 Saran Metal Sales Agency , 36 / 36 Tea - chestmetal fittings- IS : S . O . 2405 dated I apsed after 15 - 3 - 1972 
10 - 3 - 197I Harachand Mukherjee Lane, 10 - 1970 

19 - 6 - 1971 
Howrah ( W . Bengal ) 
12. CM/ L - 2596 The Bengal United Co . Pvt . Ltd , Fire hydrant - - IS : 908 - 1965 S .0 . 2405 dated Deferred after 15- 3- 1972 
I7- 3 - 1971 Brojonath Lahiri Lane, 

19 - 6 - 197I 
P . O . Santragachi , Howrah. 
12 CM/ L - 268A Mulkh Raj Madhusudan Lal Tea -chest battens - . IS : 10 - S . O . 5027 dated Renewal was deferred after 
18- 5 -197I Malhotra , E - 8 , IndustrialArea , 1970 

6 - II - I97I I5- 5 -1972, the licence , 
Yamuna Nagar , Distt Ambala 

now stands lapsed after 
(Haryana) 

that date . 
14 . CM / L - 2704 Sumangal Chemicals , 3 - B , K . K . DDT water dispersible powder $ . 0 . 3594 dated Deferred after 30 - 6 - 1972 
24 - 6 - 1971 ShahIndustrial Estate, Minor concentrates - . IS : 565 - 1961 2 - 10 - 197I 

Road , Palgar, Distt, Thana. 
15 . CM / L -2705 . Sumangal Chemicals, 3 - B , K , K . BHC water dispersible powder 5 . 0 . 3594 dated Deferred after 30 - 6 - 1972 
24- 6 - 197I Shah Industrieal Estate ,Minor concentrates - IS : 562 - 2 - 10 - 1971 

Road , Palghar, Distt . Thana. 1962 


- 


- 


- 


[ No . C . M . D ./ 13 :14] 
नई दिल्ली, 19 सितम्बर, 1972 
एस . प्रो0 3314. - -नीचे जिन प्रमाणन मुहर लाइसेंसों के ब्यौरे अनुसूची में दिये गये हैं या तो वे रद्द हो गये हैं अथवा उनका 
नवीकरण स्थगित कर दिया गया है : - - 

अनुसूची 


विवरण 


क्रम 


क्रम 
सख्या 


लाइसेंस संख्या तथा लाइसेंसधारी का नाम 


लाइसेंस संख्या तथा 
जारी करने की तिथि 


on 


- 


1 

2 
1 सी एम /एल - 1200 

_ 19 - 1 - 1966 


लाइसेंसधारी का नाम और वस्तुत / प्रक्रिया और तत्सम्बन्धी एस प्रो संख्या तथा 
पता पदनाम 

लाइसेंस स्वीकृत छपने 

वाले गजट की तिथि 
3 

5 
हिन्दुस्तान नेशनल ग्लास दूध की कांच की बोतलें एस ओं 525 
मैन्यु ० क०लि०, बहादुर- IS : 1392 - 1967 दिनांक 19 - 2- 1966 
गढ़, जिला रोहतक ( हरि 
याणा ) । 


30- 6 - 1972 

के बाद रद्द । 


1670 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II - - 


12 


H 


लव केमिकल्स , 3 मी , नेल्सन 


एन्छिन पायसनीय तेज द्रव, - एस भो 1551 


3 1 - 07 - 1972 


2 सी एम / रल - 1242 

14 - 4 -- 1966 


3 


सी एम / एल - 1304 

28 - 7 - 1966 
मी एम / एल - 1598 

27 --12 - 1987 


4 


23 - 12 - 1968 


6 सी एम / एल - 1968 

13 - 5 - 1969 


7 


सी एम / एल - 2347 

19 - 6 - 1970 


अमीनजी, फराग , मद्रास - 29 

बी एच सी धूलन पाउडर - एस पो 2600 31 - 7 -- 1972 

___ IS : 561 - 1982 दिनांक 27 - 8-- 1986 के बाद स्थगित । 
मुरारका इजीनियरिंग वर्क्स, ( 1 ) स्वचल गाड़ियों के एस मो 284 इस लाइसेंस का 

28 / 37 इडस्ट्रियल एरिया , निलम्बन के लिये पत्तोदार दिनांक 20 - 1 - 1968 नवीकरण 15 
नजफगर रोड, नई दिल्ली - 15 कमानियां और कभाती 

8 - 1971 को 
की पत्तियां --- 

स्थगित किया 
IS : 1135 - 1966 

गया था अब 
उसी तिथि से 

रद्द माना जाये । 

एस प्रो 370 दिनांक 30 - 6 - 1972 
प्रा०लि ., मेन रोड, ह वाइट IS : 2802- 1964 25 -- 1 - 1989 के बाद स्थगित । 
फील्ड, बंगलौर, जिला । 
हरबंसलाल मलहोत्रा एण्ड हस्त चालित तथा भारी पावर एस ओ 25 5 1 दिनांक 30 - 4 - 1972 
संस प्रालि ० , 20, बैरक - चालित लोहा काटने की 28 - 6 - 1969 के बाद स्थगित । 
पुर ट्रंकरोड, बलघाटिया , प्रारी 
2 .- -परगना । 

IS : 2594 - 1963 
सौराष्ट्र आयरन फाउंड्री एण्ड 18 - लीटर समाई वाले वर्गा- एस मो 3420 30 . 6 -- 1972 
स्टील वर्क्स प्रा . लि . , कार टीन - - 

दिनांक 24-- 10 - 1970 के बाद रद्द । 
बन्दर रोड, भावनगर , IS : 926 - 1968 
( गुजरात ) 
एल्युमिनियम उद्योग, 15, एल्युमिनियम बट कब्जे ---- एस प्रो 3429 15 - 7 - 1972 

दामपाड़ा रोड, कलकत्ता - 4 IS : 205 - 1966 दिनांक 24 - 10- 1970 के बाद स्थगित । 
खानदेश पेस्टीसाइड्स प्रा० डी डी टी जलविसजनीय तेज एम ओ 2109 15 - 7 - 1972 
लि०, धरनगांव , जिल्ला चूण -- - 

दिनांक 29- 5 - 1974 के बाद स्थगित । 
जलगांव , ( प० रेलवे ) IS : 565 - 1961 
गोयल इंडस्ट्रियल कारपोरेशन , ऊपर प्लाईवुड लगे लकड़ी के एस यो 3593 इसका नवीकरण 
14/ 15, मथुरा रोड, समतल कपाट ( ठोस मध्य दिनांक 2- 10 - 1971 31 - 5 - 1972 
फरीदाबाद ( हरियाणा ) भाग वाले ) --- 

को स्थगित कर 
IS : 2202 ( भाग 1 ) --- 

दिया गया था 
1966 

अब उसी तिथि 

से रद्द माना जाये । 
सरन मेटल एजेन्सी , 36 / चाय की पेटियों के लिये एस ओ 2405दिनांक 
सरन मटल एजन्सी , 36 / चाय का पीट 

15 - 1 - 1972 
36 , हरचन्द मुखर्जी लेन, धातु के फिदिग - 

19 - 6 - 1971 

के बाद रद्द । 
हावड़ा ( प० बंगाल ) । 

___ IS: 10 - 1970 
दि बंगाल युनाइटेड क ० प्रा० आग बुझाने के हाइड्रेण्ट ---- एस प्रो 2405 . 13- 3 - 1972 
लि०, प्रजनाथ लाहड़ी लेन , IS : 008 - 1965 दिनांक 19- 6- 1971 के बाद स्थगित । 
साकघर संतरागाछी , 
हावड़ा । 


8 सी एम /एल - 2355 

30 - 6 - 1970 
9 मी एम /एल - 2389 

____ 16 - 7 - 1970 


10 सी एम / एल - 2469 

30 - 11 - 1970 


11 सी एम / एल - 2585 

10 - 3 --1971 


12 सी एम / एल - 2596 

17 - 3 - 1971 


SEC. 3(ii) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4671 


Mana 


- 


- 


4 


m 


- 


- 


ma . 


mame 
- 

- 


water 


- 


+ 


. 


- 


- 


m 


12 


5 


M 


13 सी एम / एल - 2684 

19 - 5 - 1972 


मुल्खराज भवसूदन लाल चाय की पेटियों के लिये एस ओ 5027 
मलहोत्रा, इ- 8, इडस्ट्रियल प्लाईवुड की पट्टियां -- दिनांक 6- 11- 1971 
एरिया, यमुनानगर , जिला IS: 10 - 1970 
अम्बाला ( हरयाणा ) 


इसका नवीकरण 
15 - 5 - 1972 
के बाद स्थगित 
कर दिया गया 
था अब उस 
तिथि से रद्द माना 
जाये । 


14 सी एम / एल - 2704 

24- 6 -1971 


डी डी टी जलविसर्जनीय चूर्ण एस ओ 3594 30 - 6 - 1972 
IS : 565 - 1961 दिनांक 2 - 10 - 1971 के बाद स्थगित । 


सूमंगल केमिकल्स , 3 - बी , 
के ० के ० इडस्ट्रियल इस्टेट , 
मानोर रोड़ पालघाट 
जिला थाना । 


15 सी एम/एल-2595 


15 सी एम / एल - 2705 

24 - 6 -- 1971 


" " 


बी एच सी जलविसर्जनीय 
तेज चूर्ण -- 
IS : 562 - 1962 


एस ओ 3594 30 - 6 - 1972 
दिनांक 2-10- 1971 के बाद स्थगित । 


- 


[ संख्या सी० एम० डी० 13 : 14] 


New Delhi , the 2 September 1972 


3 . O . 3315 . - In pursuance of sub- regulation ( I ) of Regulation 5 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certifiation Marks 
Regulations, 1955 , as amended from time to time, it is , hereby, notified that the Indian Standards, particulars of which are 
.ne.itioned in the Scheduled given hereafter , have been cancelled : 


THE SCHEDULE 


- 


- 


Remarks 


SI. 
No . 


No . and Title of the Indian Standard S . O . No . and Date of Gazette Notification in 
Cancelled 

which Establishment ofthe Indian Standard was 

Notified 


T IS : 776 -1962 Specification for wooden S . O . 2976 dated 19 September 1962 published Cancelled in view of the fact that 
wiar - closet and coverse (revised ) in the Gazette of India , Part II , Section 3 , wooden seats and covers are 
sub - section (ii) dated 29 September 1962. found to be unhygienic in usage . 

Instead , plastic seats and covers 
as per IS : 2548 -1967 are re 
commended for use , 


2 [ S : 2517 -1953 Specification for bright S . O . 415 dated 22 January 1964 published in Cancelled in view of publication 
bars for threaded components . 

the Gazette of India , Part II , Section 3 , Sub - of IS : 4855- 1969 Specification 
, sec : ion ( ii) dated 1 February 1964 

for bright steel bars for ma 
chining. 


3 IS : 3021- 1965 Specification for bento- S . O . 2673 dated 13 August 1965 publishedin the Cancelled in view of publication 
nite for use in foundries 

Gazette of India , Part II , Section 3 , Sub - of IS :6186 - 1971 Specification for 
section (ii) dated 28 August 1965 

bentonite. 


[No. CMD /13 : 


4672 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


( PART 1) -- 


नई दिल्ली, 21 सितम्बर , 1972 
एस प्रो 0 3315 : - -समय समय पर संशोधित भारतीय मानक संस्था ( प्रमाणन् चिह्न ) विनियम, 1955 के विनियम 5 के 
उपविनियम ( 1 ) के अनसार भारतीय मानक संस्था द्वारा अधिसूचति किया जाता है कि जिन भ 
दिये गये हैं , रद्द कर दिये गये हैं : -- 

अनुसूची 


विवरण 


क्रम 
सख्या 


रद्द किये गये भारतीय मानक की सख्या 

और शीर्षक 


भारत के राजपत्र जिसमें एस प्रो तथा दिनांक 
प्रकाशित होने की सूचना छपी हुई 

थी 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


- -- - - - - - - 


- - 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


1 


2 


If : 776 - 1962 लकड़ी की अंग्रेजी भारत के गजपत्र भाग II , खण्ड 3, उपखण्ड लकड़ी की सीट तथा लक्कन उपयोग 
टट्टयों और उनके लक्कनों की विशिष्टि2 , दिनांक 29 सितम्बर , 1962 में के लिये गंदे पाये जाने के कारण 

प्रकाशित एस ओ संख्या 2976, दिनांक रद्द कर दिया गया , इसके स्थान पर 
19 सितम्बर, 1962 

उपयोग के लिये IS : 2548 
1967 के अनुरूप बनी प्लास्टिक 
की सीटों अटर ढक्कनों के विषय में 

मिफारिण की गई है । 
IS : 2517 - 1963 चूड़ीदार पूजों के लिये भारत के राजपत्र भाग II , खण्ड 3, उपखण्ड IS : 4855 - 1969 मशीन किये 
चमकीली छगों की विशिष्टि 

2, दिनांक 1 फरवरी , 1964 में प्रकाशित जाने के लिये चमकदार इस्पात की 
एस प्रो 415, दिनांक 22 जनवरी , 1964 छडों की विशिष्टि के प्रकाशन के फल 

स्वरूप रद्द कर दिया गया है । 
IS : 3021 - 1965 फाउंड़ियों में प्रयोग भारत के राजपत्र भाग 11 , खण्ड 3, उपखण्ड IS: 6186 - 1971 बोटोनाइट की 
के लिये बेंटोनाइट की विशिष्टि 

2, दिनांक 28 अगस्त , 1965 में प्रकाशित विशिष्टि के प्रकाशन के फलस्वरूप 
एस ओ 2873, दिनांक 13 अगस्त , रद्द कर दिया गया है । 
1965 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


[ म० मी० एम० डी० 13 : 7 ] 
New Delhi, the 25th September 1972 
S . 0 . 3316 -- In pursuance of But-rule ( 1 ) of rules of the Indian Standards Institution ( Certification Marks ) Rules , 1955 the Indian 
Standards Instituion hereby notifies that th: Stan.lard Mirk( s ), design( s ) of which together withthe verbal desciption of The design( s ) 
and the title ( s ) of the relevant Indian Standir (9 ) are given in the Schedule liereto annexed , have been specified . 


These Standard Mark (s ) for the purpose of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Act, 1952 and the Rules and 
Regulations framed thereunder , shall comeinto force with effect from the dates shown against cach : 


THE SCHBDULE 


$ 1. Design of the 
No. Standard Mark 


Product/ Class of 

Product 


No. and Title of the 
Relevant Indian Standard 


Verbal description of hc Design 
of the Standard Mark 


Date of 
Effect 


(1) 


( I ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


I . IS : 909 


Underground fire hydrant 

sluice - valve type . 


IS : 909- 1965 Specification The monogram of the Indian 16Aug 1972 
for underground fire hyd Standards Institution,, con 
rant, sluice - valve type sisting of letters ISI drawn 
( revised ) 

in the extstyle and relative 

proportions as indicated in 
Col, ( 2 ) , the number desi 
gnation of the Indian Standard 
being superscribed on the 

top side of the monogram as 
indicated in the design . 


- 


- 


SC. 3 ( 11 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4673 


- 


- 


( 1 ) 


( 3 ) 


2 . Is : 2082 


. 


15 


F. 


tea.. 


3 . IS : 6210 


Storage type automatic IS : 2082 - 1965 Specifica - The monogram of the Indian I Aug 1972. 
electric water heaters 

tion for storage type Standards Institution , con 
gutomatic electric water gisting of letters ISI; drawn 
heaters (revised ) 

in the exact style and relative 
proportions as indicated in 
col . ( 2 ), the number desig 
nation of the Indian Standards 
being super scribed on the top 
side of the monogram 48 indir 

cated in the design . 
Hirn rolled steel sheets for IS : 6240 -197I Specifica - The monogram of the Indian 16 Aug 1972 
the manufacture of low tion for hot rolled steel Standards Institution , con 
pressure gas cylinder . 

sheets for the manufa Bisting of lettere ISI; drawn 
cture of low. pressure gas in the exact style and relative 
cylinders . 

proportion , as indicated in Col. 
( 2 ), the number designation of 
the Indian Standard being 

superscribed on the top side 
of the monogram as indicated 
in the design . 


ASd24 


. . 


[ No . CMD/ 13 :9 ] 
नई दिल्ली, 25 सितम्बर , 1972 
म . प्रो० 3 316 : - - समय समय पर संशोधित भारतीय मानक संस्था ( प्रामाणन् चिल्ल ) नियम , 1955 के नियम 4 के उप 
नियम ( 1 ) के अनुसार भारतीय मानक संस्था की ओर से अधिसूचित किया जाता है कि जिन मानक चिह्नों की डिजायन और शाहिदक विवरण 
नन्सम्बन्धी भारतीय मानक के शीर्षक सहित नीचे अनुमूची में दिये हुये हैं , भारतीय मानक संस्था द्वारा निर्धारित किये गये है । 

भारतीय मानक संस्था प्रमाणन चिह्न ) अधिनियम , 1952 और उसके अधीन बने नियमों के निमित ये मानक चित्र प्रत्येक के आगे 
दी तिथियों से लाग हो जायेंगे । 

अनुसूची 


( 3 ) 


15900 


क्रम मानक चिह्न उत्पाद तथा उत्पाद का वर्ग सम्बस भारतीय मानक की भारतीय मानक की डिजायन लागू होने की तिथि 
संख्या की डिजायन 

पद संख्या और शीर्षक का शीषक का विवरण 
( 1 ) ( 2) 

( 4 ) 

( 5) 
1 IS : 909 भूमिगत अग्नि हाइटेन्ट,स्लूम IS : 909 - 1985 भूमि - भारतीय मानक संस्था का 18 अगस्त , 1972 
पाल्प टाइप । 

गत अग्नि हाइड्रेन्ट , स्लूस मोनोग्राम जिसमें ISI 
वाल्व टाइप की विशिष्टि शब्द होते है स्तम्भ ( 2 ) 
( पुनरीक्षत ) । 

में दिखाई शैली और और 
अनुपात में तैयार किया 
गया है और जैसा दिखाया 
गया है उस मोनोग्राम के 
ऊपर की ओर भारतीय 
मानक की संख्या दी हुई 


VALILAH 


192002 


. 


2 IS : 2082 स्टोरेज टाइप स्वचल बिजली IS : 2082 -1985 स्टो - भारतीय मानक संस्था का 16 अगस्त , 1972 

रेज टाइप स्वचल बिजली मोनोग्राम जिममें ISI 
के पानी के मीटरों की शब्द होते है स्तम्भ ( 2 ) 
विशिष्टि (पुनरीक्षत ) में दिखाई शैली और अनु 

पात में तैयार किया गया 
है और जैसा दिखाया गया 
है उस मोनोग्राम के 
ऊपर की ओर भारतीय 
मानक की संख्या दी गई 


4674 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II 


. 


. 


( 1) 


( 2) 


( 3 ) 


( 6 ) 


- - - - -- -- -- -- - - - -- - - - - 


- - - - - - - - - -- - - - - 


- 


15 : 0940 


3 IS : 6240 अल्पदाब गैम सिलिण्डरों IS : 6240 - 1971 अल्प - भारतीय मानक संस्था मा 16 अगस्त , 1972 

के निर्माण के लिये गर्म दाब गैस सिलिण्डरों के मोनोग्राम जिसमें ISI 
वेल्लित इस्पात की चद्दरें । निर्माण के लिये गर्म वेल्लित शब्द होते हैं स्तम्भ ( 2 ) 

इस्पात की पहरों की में दिखाई गई शैली और 
विशिष्टि । 

अनुपात में तैयार किया 
गया है और जैसा दिलाया 
गया है उस मोनोग्राम के ऊपर 
की पोर भारतीय मानक 
की संख्या दी हई है । 


[ संख्या मी०एम०डी०/ 13 : 9] 


S . 0 . 3317 - Trn pursuance of sub -regulation ( 3 ) of regulation of the Indian Standards Institution ( Certification Alarks) Regulations 
1955 , the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that the marking fee (s ) per unit for various products 
details of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed , have been determined and the fec (s) shall come into force with effect from the 
datcs shown against cach : 


THE SCHEDULE 


Sl. 
No. 


Product / Class 

of Product 


No. and Title of Relevant 

Indian Standard 


Duit 


Marking Fee per Unit 


Date of 

Effect 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


( 3 ) 


R . I. 00 


16 Aug 1972 


Rs . I . 00 


I Aug 1972 


I . Underground fire IS : 909- 1965 Specification One hydrant 
hydrant, sluice - for underground fire 

hydrant, sluice - value type 

( revised ) 
2. Storage type auto- IS : 2032 -1955 Specification One heater 

matic electric for storage type automatic 
water heaters electric water heaters 

( revised ) 
3. Hot rolled stecl IS : 6240 - 1971 Specification One tonne 

sheets for th : for but roll: d steel sheets 
manufacture for for the manufacture of 
low pressure gas loir presquire gas cylinders 
cylinders . 


25 Palgae 


116 Aug 1972 


- 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. . 


. 


[ No. CMD/13 :10 ] 
एम० प्रो० 3317 : - भारतीय मानक संस्था ( प्रमाणन् घिल्ल ) विनियम , 1955 के विनियम 7 के उपविनियम ( 3 ) के 
अनुसार भारतीय मानक संस्था की ओर से अधिसूचित किया जाता है कि विभिन्न उत्पादों की प्रति इकाई मुहरांकन फीसें जिनके 
ब्यौरे मीचे अनुसूची में दिये हैं , निर्धारित की गई हैं और ये फीसें उनके आगे दिखाई गई तिथियों से लागू हो जायेंगी : - - 


अनुसूची 


क्रम 


उत्पाद / उत्पादन का वर्ग 


इकाई 


सम्बद्ध भारतीय मानक की पद- 

संख्या और शीर्षकी 


प्रति इकाई मुहर लागू होने की तिथि 
लगाने की फीस 


संख्या 


( 1) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


( 5 ) 


-- - - - -- - -- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


० 1 . 00 


16 अगस्त, 1972 


____ 1 भूमिगत अग्नि हाइड्रेन्ट, 

स्लूस , वाल्व टाइप 


IS : 909- 1965 भूमिगत एक हाईड्रेन्ट ] 
अग्नि हाइड्रैन्ट स्लूस वाल्व टाइप 
की विशिष्टि ( पुनरीक्षत ) 


- 


- 


- 


Sec . 3(iiis 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4675 


- - 


( 1) 


( 2) 


( 3 ) 


(4) 


(5) 


1 00 


1 


TIET, 1972 


2 . FETT UTET 

IS : 2082 – 1965 
बिजली के पानी के हीटर टाइप स्वचलन बिजली के पानी 

के होटर की विशिष्टि ( पुनरो 


f77 ) 


3 . 


5 ftTTT 


25 AT 


16 pored , 1072 


Glath fueTT IS : 6240 - 1971 19TH 
निर्माण के लिये गम वेल्लित गैस सिलेण्डरों के निर्माण के लिये 
इस्पात की चद्दरे । 

गर्म वेल्लित इस्पात की चद्दरों 
की विशिष्टि । 


[Ho forth ost0/ 13 : 10) 


New Delhi, the Ii Octobar 1972 


S . O . 3318 . - In purguance of sub - regulations ( 2 ) and (3 ) of regulation 3 of the Indian Standards Institut on (Certification 
Marks ) Regulations, 1955 , as amended (rom time to time, the Indian Standards Institution hereby not fics that the Indian Standard (s ) 
particulars of which are inentioned in the Schedule given hereafter , have been established during the period 1 November , 1971 to 15 
November , 1971 : 


THE SCHEDULE 


SI. 
No. 


No. and T tle of the Indian Standard 

Established 


Brief 


Particulars 


No. and Title of the Indian Standard 
if any , supergeded by the new Indian 

Standard 


( 1) 


( 3 ) 


I . IS : 248 - 1971 Spec ficat on for sodium IS : 248 - 1961 Specification for sodium Thir standard prescribes the requirements 

bisulphite ( sodium inctabisulphite ) b sulph .te (sodium mctabigul and the methods of sampling and test 
(second revision ). 

phite ) ( first revision ). 

for sodium bisulphite ( sodium meta 
bigulphite ) of the technical and photo 

graphic grades (Price Rs. 3 50 ). 
2 . IS : 1163 - 1971 Specification for chocolates IS :1163- 1958 Specification for co - This standard prescribes the requirements 
( first revision ) . 

Vering chocolate . 

and the methods of test for chocolates 

(Price Rs. 6 50 ) . 
3 . IS : 1186 - 1971 Spcc fication for shuttles (i) IS : 1186 - 1957 Spec fication for This standard spec fies the requirements 
for hessian and sack ng loomy ( first shuttles for hessian loom and 

for shuttles for hessian and gacking looms 
revision ) . 

(11) IS : 1187 - 1957 Specification for (Price Rs. 3 .00) . 

shuttles Or sacking looms. 
4 . IS :1448 Methods of test for petroleum and IS : 1448 Methods of test for petro - Two methods are prescribed in order to 
its products 

leum and its products 

evaluate the burning properties of 
P :5 ( 1970 ) Burning quality (first revision ) P :5 ( 1960 ) Burning quality 

kerosinc (Price Rs . 2 .00 ) 
5 . IS : 1448 Methods of test for petroleum IS :1448 Methods of test for petro - These methods prescribe procedures for 
and its products 

leum and its products 

the deterinination of the cloud po nt and 
P : 10 ( 1970 ) Cloud point and pour point P : 10 ( 1960 ) Cloud point and pour point pour point of Petroleum products 
first revision ) 

(Price Rs. 2 00 ) 
6 . IS : 1731 - 1971 Dimensions for steel flats IS : 1731 - 1961 Dimensions for steel This standard spec fics dimens ons, weights 

for structural and general engineering flats for structural and general en and sectional areas of hot- follcd stecl flats 
purposes (first revision ) 

gineering purposes 

for structural and general engineering 

purposes . (Price Rs. 2 00 ) 
7 . * * IS : 1746 - 1970 Specification for shoe IŞ : 1746 - 1960 Specification for shoe This standard prcscrihes the requiretrents 
polish , paste (first revision ) 

polish 

and the methods of sampling and test for 
wax - solvent pagte type polishes guitable 
for general application to leather footwear 

(Price Rs. 4 00 ) 
8 . I $ :1974 - 1971 Specification for cotton IS : 1974 - 1961 Specificat on for cotton This standard spec fies the requircments 

spindle tapes for jute textilc mills ( first spndle tape (for jute textile mills ) for cotton spindle tapes for jute textilo 
revision ) 

mills. (Price Rs. 3 00 ) 


* For purposes of ISI Cert fication Marks Scheme, IS : 1186 - 1971 shall come into force with effect from 1 Sep . 1971. 


* * For purposes of ISI Cort fiction Marks Schemc, IS : 1746 - 1970 shallcome into force with effect from 1 Sep. 1971. 


4676 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART 11 — 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


G 


- = 


- 3 


(1 ) 


(3 ) 

(3 ) 
9 . IS : 2087- 1971 Specfication for square tins IS :2087 - 1966 Specification for squ - This standard prescribes the requircilents 
for generalpurposey ( second revision ) 

arc tins for general purposes and the methods of satt pling and test 
(revised ) 

for yquare built up tins manufactured 

from tinplate (Price Rs. 4 : 00 ) 
IO . IS :2257- 1970 Spec fication for paper Ad - IS : 2257- 1962 Specification for paper This standard prescr hos the requirements 

hesives , liquid gum and office paste type adhesives, liqu d gum and office and the mcthods of sampl ng 21. d test for 
( first revision ) 

paste type 

adhesives for joining paper to paper or 
paper to other gurfaces I ke paperbourd , 
wood , cloth , glans and nctals n general 

office usc . ( Price Rs. 3 : 50 ) 
II. IS :2684 (Part IV ) - 1971 Dimensions of 

This gtandard covers outl nes of receiving 
clcctron c valves 

valves of the magnoval base typc, dirren 
Part IV magnoval base type 

sions of magnoval base used with such 
valves and dimensions of guuges suitable 
for checking the base dimensions. 

( Price Rs. 2 . 50 ) 
12 . IS : 2784- 1971 Specification for shuttle for IS : 2784 - 1964 Specification for shut- Th s stundurd spec fie s the requirus ents 

automat c cop - changing jute looms ( firsttles for automatic cop - changing for shuttle for auton alic cop -chargir- g 
revision ) 

jute looms 

jute looms (Price Rs . 3 : 00 ) 
13 . @ IS : 2910 - 1971 Specification for shuttles IS :2910 - 1964 Specification for shut- This standard spcc fies the requ refr.ents 
for jute board looms ( first revision ) 

tles for jute board looms 

for shuttles for jute broad looms (Price 

Rs . 3 .00 ) 
14 . IS :3062 - 1970 Specification for rocker IS : 3062- 1965 Specification for rock - This standard prescribes the requ rements 
sprayer ( first revision ) 

er sprayer 

and the methods of test ng the perfor 
mance of rocker sprayer used for spraying 
Pesticides , insect: c des , Weedic des , etc . 

in liquid form . (Price Rs. 5 . 00 ) 
Is . IS : 3078 - 1971 Specification for rings for IS : 3078 - 1965 Specification for This standard prescribes requ rements of 
spinning frames ( first rezision ) 

rings for spinning frame 

rings of convent onal type for unc in ring 
spinning fraine in conjuction with metal 
travellers conforming to the requirements 
la d down in IS : 3523 - 1970 Specification 
for metal travellers for ring spinning frame 

( first revision ) ( Price Rs. 5 00 ) 
16 . IS :3368 - 1970 Specification for wooden IS : 3368- 1965 Specification for woo - This standard prescribes requircinents of 

heald frames for wire and flat steel healds den heald frames for wine and flat the following two types of heald frames 
( first Tevision ) 

steel healds 

for wire and flat steel healds conforming 
to IS :1190 - 1969 Spccification for twin 
wire lcalds (excluding jacquard fancy 
and jute wcay ng ( first revision ) , and 
IS :2487 - 1963 Spcc ficut on for flat steel 
heulds for cotton , silk , woollen and wors 
tcd weaving (excluding jacquard and leno 

weaving ) : 
(a ) Heald farine with double end -brackets , 

and 
(b ) Heald frame with combined wooden 

end - staves and end - brackets . 

(Price Rs. 5 00 ). 
( S : 4465 - 1970 Specification for metal IS :4465 - 1967 Spec fication for mc- This standard prescribes requirements for 
heald franes fur flat steel healds ( first talheald frames for flat steelhealds inetal hcald frunzes for flat steel hcalds 
revision ) 

conforming to IS :2487 - 1963 Speci 
fication for flat stcel healds for cotton , 
silk , Woollen and worsted weaving (ex 
cluding jacquard and leno Weaving ) 

(Price Rs. 5 .00 ). 
18 . IS :5000 (OD 10) - 1971 Dimensions of semi 

This standard specifies the dimensions for 
conductor devices , D : vice outline ODIO 

semiconductor devices , device outline 

OD10 ( Price R3. 3 . 00 ) 
19 . IS : 5000(ODIT )- 1971 Dimensions of gemt 

This standard specifics the dimensions of 
conductor devices, Device outline ODII 

semiconductor devices , device outline 

ODII (Price Rs. 3 . 00) 
20 . IS :5000 (OD12 )- 1971 Dimensions of semi 

This standard specifies the dimensions of 
conductor devices, Device outline OD12 

6Cmiconductor devices , deyice outline 

OD12 Price Rs , 3 . 00 ) 
21, IS 3000 (OD13 ) - 1971 Dimensions of semi 

This standard specifies the dimensions of 
conductor devices, Deyice outline OD13 

semiconductor devices, device outline 

OD13 ( Price Rs. 3 . 00 ). 
22. IS : 5000 (OD14 )- 1971 Dimensions of semi 

This standard specifies the dimensions of 
conduc .or devices , D : vice outline OD14 

semiconductor devices (Price Rs. 3 . 00 ) 
23. IS 5493 - 1969 Dimengions for wrought 

This gtandard specifies diincnsions and 
copper and copper alloy tubes 

tolerances for wrought copper and copper 
alloys in the form of drawn tube . (Price 
Rs 2 . 00 ) 


For purpoy38 01 ISI Cortification Marks Schem : IS : 2910 - 1971 Shall com : Into force with effect from 1 Sep . 1971. 
For purposos of ISI Certification Marks Scheme IS :4465 - 1970 shall come into forca with offcct from 1 Oct. 1971. 


Src , 3 ( ! ) ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4677 


- - - 


- 


- 


( I) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


(4 ) 


24 . IS : 5660 - 1970 Specification for readymixed 

paint, brushing, aluminium - red 
oxide primer 


25 . IS :5675 - 1971 Sp : cification for rotary -disc 

vacuuin filters 


26 . IS : 5815 (Part I) - 1971 Methods of test for 

fishing gear materials 
Part I determination of thickness 


27 . IS :5822 - 1970 Code of practice for laying of 

welded steel pipes for water supply 


28. IS :5325- 1970 Guide for evaluation of ther 

mal endurance of enamelled wires 


29 . 


IS 5826 - 1970 Cɔnstructional requirements 

for flat storage struc :ures for grains ( capa 
city above 200 tonnes ) 


30 . 


IS : 5839 - 197 ) Code for hygienic conditions 

for manufacture , storage and sale of ice 
creams 


This standard prescribes the requirements 
and the methods of sampling and test for 
ready mixed paint , brushing , aluminium 
red oxide primer , The material is used 

as a primer for steel work ( Price Rs. 3 . 50 ). 
This standard covers general requirements 

for continuous rotary - disc vacuum filters 
with a filter base located on flat vertical 
surfaces of sector type rotary discs partly 
submerged in the slurry and intended for 
the separation for free - flowing neutral , 
acidic or alkaline suspensions (Price 

Rs. 4 . 00 ) . 
This standard prescribes method for deter 

mination oi thickness of netting yarn 
defined as the distance between one sur 
face and its opposite ; and in textiles , the 
distance between upper and lower surfaces , 
exclduing the standing out hairs . (Price 
Rs. I 50 ). 
This code covers the methods of laying 
butt -welded mild steel pipes of diameters 
200 mm and above , laid either above 
gruond or under - ground for water supply . 
It also includes handling and jointing of 

pipes and hydrostatic tests (Price Rs. 7 . 50 ) 
This guide lays down a test procedure for 

evaluating the useful life of round enamel 
led wires having bare wire diameter of 
O 25 to 3 . 35 mm inclusive. (Price 

Rs. 5 . 50 ). 
This standard covers the constructional re 

quirements for flat storage structures of 
capacity above 200 tonnes used for storing 

foodgrains in bulk . ( Price Rs. 4 . 00 ). 
This code specifies the hygienic conditions 

and hygienic practices required to be 
adopted in the manufacture , packaging, 
storage, distribution and sale of different 
varieties of ice - creams. This code is 
by and large also applicable to ice - candies 

and similar products (Price Rs. 8 . 50 ) 
This standard prescribes the requirements 

of bare solid filler rods and wires for weld 
ing nickel and nickel alloys by inert gas 
. tungsten arc welding ( TIG ) or gas metal 
arc welding (MIG ). The chemical 
com position of filler rods is also specified 

(Price 5 . 50 ). 
This standard specifies the material and the 

dimensions for non - return valves for use 
with mechanical ventilation systems on 

board ships . (Price Rs. 2 . 00 ). 
This standard prescribes requirements and 

methods of sampling and test for wooden 
heels required for manufacture of footwear 

for women and girls (Price Rs 5 . 50 ). 
This standard prescribes dimensional re 

quirements and the methods of sampling 
and test for glass globes used for internal 
lighting of passenger coaches . ( Price 

Rs. 5 . 00 ) . 
This standard deals with specifications and 
procedures for laying concrete lining for 
tunnels , covering pack and pressure 

grouting. (Price Rs. 2 . 50 ) . 
This standard prescribes methods for the 

estimation of carotenes and vitamin A 

(retinol) in foodstuffs . ( Price Rs. 5 00 ) . 
This standard lays down the requirements 

regarding materials , design , construction , 
capacity and performance of mobile hio 
asphalt mixing plants of small capactiy 
( Price Rs. 3 . 50 ) . 


31. IS : 5857 - 1970 So cification for nickel and 

nickel alloy bare solid welding rods and 
electrodes . 


32 . IS :5858 (Part I) - 1975 Specification for ac 

cessories tomechanicalventilation systems 
on board ships 

Part I non - return valves 
33 . IS : 5865 - 1970 Specification for wooden 

heels for women s and girls footwear 


34 . IS :537 ) - 197 ) Specification for glass globes 

for internal lighting of passenger coaches 


35 . IS :5378 (Part V ) - 1971 Code of practice for 

construction of tunnels 
Part V concrete lining 


36 . IS :5886 - 1970 Methods for estimation of 

carotenes and vitamin A (retinol) in 

foodstuffs 
37 . IS : 5899 - 1970 Specification for mobile 

hot mix asphalt plant, light duty 


UN 


4678 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART II 


- 


- 


- - 


(1) 


(2 ) 


( 3 ) 


38 . IS : 5898 - 1970 Specification for copper and 

Icopper alloy bare solid welding rods and 
Clectrodes 


The standard prescribes the requiremen s 
of bare solid Aller rods and wires for weld 
ing copper and alloys by inert - gas are 
process , that is inert - gas tungsten arch 
welding ( TIG ) or gas metal-arc welding 
(MIG ). The chemical composition of 
the toda and wireg is also specific d . 
(Price Rs. 5 . 00 ) 


in : 


39. IS :5914 -1970 Methods of physical testing All physical methods oftest specifici This standard prescribes the methods for 
of leather 

carrying out physical tests for all types 
(i ) IS : 582 - 1954 Methods of gamp- of leathers . 
ling and test for vegetable and Should any inconsistency exist between the 
chrometanned Icathers and 

methods of test in this standard with those 
(ii) IS : 1016 - 1956 Methods of gam - of the methods prescribed in the material 

pling and test for Oil tanned lea specifications , the latter shall prevail . 
thers . 

(Price Rs. 15 . 50 ) 
40 . IS : 5944 - 1971 Specification for accessories 

Thir standard prescribes requirements of 
for use in shuttles for jute looms 

Accessories , such as offset tip , cover , 
coyer lnck , drag pring, pin and brightles . 

( Price Rs. 5 . 00 ) 
41. IS :5946 - 1970 Specificat on for whirling 

This standard specifies " the roquirements 
psychrometer 

for whirling psychro meter for measuring 
ait temperature and atmospheric humidity 

( Price Rs. 2 . 00 
42. IS : 5947- 1970 Charts for recording metooro 

This standards spccifies he requirement 
logical instrumente 

for charts for use with the following 
meteorological instruments with either 

weekly or daily clockdrums : 
( i) Ruingauge , recording ; 
(ii) Thermograph , bimetallic ; 
(iii) Hair hygrograph ; and 

(iv ) Barograph , aneroid , ( Price Rs. 5 . 50 ) 
43 . IS :5948 - 1970 Specification for thermometer screens 

This standard prcscribes the roquirements 
for thermometer screens for exposure of 
thermometers and recording instruments 
for the measurement of air temperature 

and humidity . ( Price Rs. 2 . 50 . ) 
44. IS : 5959 (Part 1) - 1970 Specification for 

This standard covers the requirements for 
nolyethylene insulated and PVC - ghcathed 

both armourdic and unarmourde single 
(heavy duty ) electric cables 

core , twin - core , three - core and multi- core 
Part I for working voltage up to and includ 

polyethylene insulated and PVC -sheathca? 
ing IIOO volts 

cables for electricity supply and control 

purposes . ( Price Rs. 5 . 50 ) 
45. IS :5962- 1970 Specification for partly 

This standard prescribes the requiremerts 
skimmed sourmilk powder 

and the methods of sampling and fest for 
partly skimmed sour milk powder . (Price 

Rs. 2 . 00 ) 
46 . IS :5973 - 1970 Specification for pan eva 

This standard specifies the requirements 
porimeter 

for pan cvaporimeter consisting of a pan , 
wire mesh cover , fixed point gauge , 
measuring sylinder , thermometer with 
clamp and wooden plateform . (Price 

Rs. 3 . 50 ) 
47 . IS : 5982 - 1970 Spacification for plantation IS :499 - 1958 Methods of test for This standard prescribes the requirements 

white augar for identification from other vacuum pan sugar ( plantation and the methods of sampling and test for 
gugars 

plantation white sugar manufactured by 
vacuum pan process , mainly , with a view 
to establishing chemical characteristics 

for identification . (Price Rs. 7 . 00 ) 
48 . IŞ : 5987 - 1970 Code of practice for gelection 

This code covers selection of switches of 
of switches (voltage not exceeding 

yoltages not exceeding 1000 V ac/dc. 
1000 V ) 

( Price Rs. 4 . 00 ) 
49 . IS :5990 -1971 Sizes for shaping machines 

Lays down the basic dimensions for both 
mechanical and hydraulic shaping ma 

chines. ( Price Rs. 3 : 00 ) 
50. IS :5995-1971 Specification for pipe grip 

Dimensions and requirements for pipe grip 
pliers 

pliers . (Price Rs. 3 . 00 ) 
SI. I$ :5999 -1971 Specification for swing latches 

Dimensions and requirements for swing 

latches used in holding work pieces in 


( Price Rs. 3 . 00 ) 


SEC , 3 ( 1) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 

- - - - - -- - - - - - 


4679 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


ty 


( 4 ) 


Specification for rail tongs 


52 . IS :6000 - 1971 

for railways . 


53 . IS :6002 - 1971 Specification for tommy bars 

for box spanners. 
54 . IS :6003- 1970 Specification for indented 

wire for prestreyscd concrete 


55 . IS :6013 - 1970 Specification for trowels for 

usein foundries 


56 . IS :6015 -1970 

hydroxide 


Specification for barium 


57 . 


IS :6016 - 1970 Sp - cification for hose con 

nection for welding and cutting equipment 


58 . IS : 6024 - 1970 Sp : cification for guards for 

grain harvesting machines 


59 . IS :6025 - 1970 Specification for knife sec 

tions for grain harvesting machines 


60. I $ :6033 - 1941 Specification for mackerel, 

frozen 


61. IS :6037 - 1970 Specification for żinc oxide 

cug noldental impression pagtc . 


Laya down the dimensions and the require 
ments for rail tongs for railways . ( Price 

Ps. 3 . 00 ) 
Dimengions and requirements for tomm 

bars for box spanners . (Price Rs. 3 . 00 ) 
This gandard covers the requirements for 

manufac ure, supply and testing of indent 
ed hard drawn wire for use in prestressed 

concrete . ( Price Rs. 4 00 ) 
Requirements for trowels or use in found 
ries. Trowels are used for making , finish 
ing nd repairing the moulds . (Price 

Rs. 5 . 50 ) 
This standard prescribes the requirements 
and the methods of sampling and test 
for barium hydroxido. (Price Rs. 5 . 00 ) 
This gtandard specifies the connection fittings 

for hoses with a nominal bore up to 
12 . 5 mm for use with gas welding and 

cutting equipment. (Price Rs. 4 . 00 ) 
This standard specifics the material and 

dimensions of guards of a cutter bar of 
grain harvesting machine. (Price Rs. 
3 : 50 ) 
This standard specifies the material and 
dimensions of a knife section , width of 
cut and number of knife sections in the 
cutter bar of grain harvesting machines 
( Price Rs. 3 . 50 ) 
This standard prescribes the requirement 

And methods of sampling and test for 
frozen mackerel . (Price Rs. 3 . 50 ) 
This standard prescribes the requirements 

and the methods of sampling and test for 
zinc oxide -eugenol impression paste used 
in dentistry . (Price Rs. 3 : 50 ) 
This standard prescribes the requirements 
and methods of samplirg and trst for 
dental impression compound ( also known 
as modelling compound ). ( Price Rs. 

3 . 50 ) 
This standard prescribes the requirements 

and the methods of sampling and test for 
zinc oxide- eugenol dental cement. (Price 

Rs. 3 : 50 ) 
This standard prescribes the requirements 
and method of sampling and test for strip 
pable hot- dipping typc temporary protec 
tives suitable for metal parts such as steel , 

copper ond Aluminium during storage and 
transport . ( Price Rs. 4 .00 ) 
This standard prescribes the requirements 

and methods of sampling and tent or 
clicking knife used in footwear industry for 
cutting of upper components of footwear . 

(Price Rs. 3 . 50 ) 
This standard op cifies the repuirements for 

aleare cloth (Pric : Rs . 3 . 00 ) 
This standard lays down requirements for 
har 1 anodic coatings on aluminium for ongi 
necring applications, Hard annodizing in 
tended for decorative purposes is not included , 
(Price Rs. 2 . 50 ) 
This standard covers the method of cons 
truction of floor and roof using precast 
reinforced cement concrete / prestressed 
concrete joists and hollow cement concrete 
Aller blocks within sitzt reinforced concrete 

decking ar the top . ( Price Rs. 4 . 00 ) 
This standard covers the requirements for 

Cgt alloy steel grinding media . (Prico 
Rs. 2 .00 ) 


62. IS :6038 - 1970 Specification for dental im 

pression compound . 


63 . IS :6979- 1970 Specification for zinc oxide 

cugenoldental ccment. 


64. IS :6050 - 1971 Specification for temporary 

corrosion preventives , strippable , hot 
dipping typc. 


65 . 


IS :6053 (Part I )- 1970 Sp : cification for hand 

tools for footwear industry . 
Part I upper clicking knife 


66 . IS :6054 - 1970 Spacification for clear: r cloth . 


for 


hard 


67. IS : 6057 - 1970 Specification 

ano lic coatings on aluminium . 


68 . IS :6061 (Part I) - 1971. Code of practice for 

congtruction of finor and roof with joists 
and filler blocks Part I with hollow con 
crete filler blocks. 


69 . [ S :6079- 1971 Specification for cast alloy 

steel grinding media . 


4680 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29, 1894 


[ PART I 

- - -- - -- 


- 


- . 


- 


- - - - - - ---- - - 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - - 


- - - - - . . . - . - - . - - - 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


70 . I $ :6093 - 1971. Method of determining the 

capacity and dimensions of hermetically 
scaled ineral food containers . 


This standard prescribes the terminology, 

designations method for determination 
of cupacity , procedure for dimensional 
specifications and marking for hermetical 
ly sealed inclal food containers . Price 

Rs. 350 ) 
Requirem nts for slotted pan head screws in 
the diamet: r rango 2 . 5 to lo mm . ( Price Rs. 

5. 00 ) 
Covery requirements of dental chair for use 

of dental patients. (Price Rs. 3 . 00 ) 


71. IS :6101- 1971 Specification for slottcd pan 

head screws. 


72 . IS : 6116 - 1971 Specification for dental chair. 


Copies of these Indian Standards are available for sale with the Indian Sundards Institution , Manak Bhawan , 9 Bahadur Shah 
ZafarMarg , New Delhi- I and also its branch offices ar (i ) 534 Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Road , Bombay - 7 ii) s , Chowringhee Approach , 
Road , Calcutta - 13 ( iii ) 54 , General Partery Road , Madras - 2 ( iv ) 117 /418 B , Sarvodaya Nagar, Kanpur, ( v ) 5 -9 - 201/ 2 , Chirag Ali 
Lane, Hyderabad - 1 (vi) SADHANA Nurmohamed Sheikh Marg, Kanpur , Ahmedubadl- I andi- vii) F .Block , Unity Bldg ., Narasimharaja 
Square, Bangalore - 2.. 

M . V . PATANKAR 

Deputy Director Generl. 
भारतीय मानक संस्था 

नई दिल्ली , 11 अक्तूबर , 1972 
एस० प्रो० 3318 .-~ - समय समय पर संशोधित भारतीय मानक संस्था ( प्रमाणन चिह्न ) विनियम 1955 के विनियम 3 के 
उपविनियम ( 2 ) और ( 3 ) के अनुमार भारतीय मानक संस्था द्वारा अधिसूचित किया जाता है कि नीचे अनमूची में निज भारतीय मानकों 
के व्यौरे दिये गए है, वे 1 नवम्बर , 1971 से 15 नवम्बर , 1971 की अवधि में निर्धारित किये गये हैं । 

अनुसूची 


संक्षिप्त विवरण 


क्रमांक निर्धारित भारतीय मानक की पदसंख्या नए भारतीय मानक द्वारा रद्द हुए 
और शीर्षक 

भारतीय मानक यदि हों , की पदसंख्या 

और शीर्षक 


- 


- 


- 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


1 IS : 248 - - 1971 सोडियम बाइ- IS : 248- ~- 1961 मोडियम बाइ - म मानक मे सोडियम बाइमल्फाइट ( सोडियम 

मल्फाइट ( सोडियम मेटा बाइ सल्फाइट ( मोरियम मेटा बाइ मेटा बाइसल्फाइट ) के तकनीकी और फोटो 
मल्फाइट ) की विशिष्टि ( दूमग मल्फाइट ) की विशिष्टि ( पहला ग्राफी ग्रेडों के विषय में अपेक्षाएं और बानगी 
पुनरीक्षण ) पुनरीक्षण ) 

लेने तथा परीक्षण की पद्धतियां निर्धारित 
की गई हैं । 

( मूल्य रु . 3 . 50 ) 
2 IS : 116 3 -~- 1971 चाकलेटों की IS : 116 :--~-195 8 ऊपर लगाने के इम मानक में चाकलेटों के विषय में अपेक्षाएं तथा 
विशिष्टि (पहला पुनरीक्षण ) चाकलेट को विशिष्टि 

परीक्षण पद्धतियां दी गई हैं । 

( मूल्य रु . 6 . 50 ) 
* 3 IS : 1186 - - 1971 हेमियन और ( 1 ) IS : 1186 - - 1957 हेमियन इस मानक में हेसियन और बोरे के कपड़े के 

बोरे के कपड़े के करघे के नाल की करघों के तकुत्रों की विशिष्टि, और करघों में प्रयुक्त नालों के विषय में अपेक्षाएं 
विशिष्टि ( पहला पुनरीक्षण ) ( 2 ) IS : 1187 -- 1957 बोरे के दी गई हैं । 

कपड़े के करघों के नकुओं की ( मूल्य रु० 3 . 00 ) 

विशिष्टि 
4 IS : 1448 — पेट्रोलियम और उसके IS : 1448 - - पेट्रोलियम और उसके इस मानक में मिटटी के तेल के जलने के गणों 

उत्पादों की परीक्षण पद्धतियां उत्पादों की परीक्षण पद्धतियां को परखने के लिए दो पद्धतियां दी गई हैं । 
पी : 5 ( 1970 ) जलने के गुण पी : 5 ( 1960 ) जलने के गुण ( मूल्य रु० 2 . 00 ) 
( पहला पुनरीक्षण ) 


* भा० मा० संस्था प्रमाणन महर योजना के लिए : 1186 - 1971, 1 सितम्बर , 1971 से लाग होगा । 


Si: C. 3 ( iil 


4681 


- . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 

- - - - - - . - . - - - . : 
( 3) 


- - 


- 


- - -- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


* टाइममिला 


5 IS : 1448 पेट्रोलियम और उमके IS : 1448 पेट्रोलियम और उसके इन पद्धतियों में पेट्रोलियम उत्पादन के धुंध - अंक 

उत्पादों की परीक्षण पद्धतियां उत्पादों की परीक्षण पद्धतियां और उड़ेलन - अंक निकालने सम्बन्धी विधियां 
पी : 10 ( 1970 ) धुंध अंक और पी : 10 ( 1960 ) धुंध अंक और दी गई हैं । 
उड़ेलन अंक उझेलन अंक 

( मूल्य रु . 2 , 00 ) 
( पहला पुनरीक्षण ) 
6 IS : 1731 --- 1971 संरचनात्मक IS : 1731 - - 1961 संरचनात्मक इम मानक में संरचनात्मक और सामान्य इंजी 

और सामान्य इंजीनियरी कार्यों के अोर सामान्य इंजीनियरी कार्यों के नियरी कार्यों के लिए गर्म रोल्ड इस्पात के 
लिएइस्पात के फ्लैट के माप ( पहला लिए इस्पात के फ्लैट के माप फ्लैट के माप तोल और सेक्शन के क्षेत्रफल 
पुनरीक्षण ) 

निर्धारित किये गये हैं । 

( मूल्य 2 . 00 रु० ) 
* 7 IS : 1746 - -- 1970 जूने की पेस्ट- IS : 1746 - - 1960 जूते को पालिश इस मानक में चमड़े के जूतों में सामान्य रूप से 
नुमा पालिश की विशिष्टि ( पहला की विशिष्टि 

लगाये जाने के उपयुक्त मोम धूली पेस्टनुमा 
पुनरीक्षण ) 

पालिशों के विषय में अपेक्षाएं , बानगी लेने 
तथा परीक्षण की पद्धतियां निर्धारित की 
गई हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 4 . 00 ) 
8 IS : 1974 ---1971 पटमन टैक्म - IS : 2087 - - 1966 मामान्य कार्यों इस मानक में टिन की चद्दरों से बने हर वर्गाकार 

टाइल मिलों के तकुओं के सूती टेप के लिए वर्गाकार टिनों की विशिष्टि टिनों के विषय में अपेक्षाएं और बानगी लेने 
की विशिष्टि ( पहला पुनरीक्षण ) ( पुनरीक्षित ) 

तथा परीक्षण की पद्धतियां दी गई हैं । 

( मूल्य रु . 4 , 00 ) 
9 IS : 2087 - --1971 सामान्य कार्यों IS : 2087 - ~-1966 सामान्य कार्यों इस मानक में टिन की चदरों से बने हा वर्गाकार 

के लिए वर्गाकार टिनों की विशिष्टि के लिए वर्गाकार टिनों की विशिष्टि टिनों के विषय में अपेक्षाएं और बानगी लेने 
( दूसरा पुनरीक्षण ) ( पुनरीक्षत ) 

तथा परीक्षण की पद्धतियां दी गई हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 4 . 00 ) 
10 IS : 2257 -- 1970 कागज चेपी IS : 2257 - --1962 कागज चेपी इस मानक में कार्यालयों में सामान्य उपयोग के 

पदार्थों, द्रव गोंद और दफ्तरों की पदार्थों द्रव गोंद और दफ्तरों की लिए कागज से अथवा गत्ते , लकड़ी , कपड़े , 
पतली लेई ( पेस्ट ) की विशिष्ट पतली लेई ( पेस्ट ) की विशिष्टि कांच और धातुओं के ऊपर कागज चिपकाने के 
( दूसरा पुनरीक्षण ) 

काम आने वाले चेपी पदार्थों के विषय में 
अपेक्षाएं और बानगी लेने तथा परीक्षण की 
पद्धतियां निर्धारित की गई हैं । 

( मूल्य रु . 3 . 50 ) 
11 IS : 2684 ( भाग 4 )---- 1971 

इस मानक में मैंगनोवल आधार वाले रेडियो 
इलेक्ट्रानिक वाल्व के माप , भाग 4 

वाल्वों की रूप रेखाएं , ऐसे वाल्वों के साथ काम 
मैगनोवल आधार वाले 

आने वाले मैगनोवल आधारों के माप और 
आधार मापों की जांच के उपयुक्त गेजों के माप 
निर्धारित किये गये हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 2. 50 ) 
12 IS : 2784- -1971 स्वतः भोरिया IS : 2784 ---- 1964 स्वतः अोरिया इस मानक में स्वतः प्रोरिया परिवर्ती पटसन 

परिवर्ती पटसन करघों के नाल की परिवर्ती पटसन करघों के नाल को करषों की नालों के विषय में अपेक्षाएं निर्धारित 
विशिष्टि ( पहला पुनरीक्षण ) विशिष्टि 

की गई हैं । 
( मूल्य रु० 3 . 00 ) 


के लिएवर्गा 


* भा० मा . मंस्था प्रमाणन मुहर योजना के लिए IS : 1746 - - 1971 , 1 सितम्बर 1971 से लागू होगा । 


4682 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART 11 - - 
- - - - -- - - 


- 


- - 


-. .. - 


- . - - : : 


" -- - -- - 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


- 


- 


* 13 IS : 29 10 - - 1971 पटसन के IS : 2910 --- 1964 पटसन के इस मानक में पटसन के घोड़े करों पर काम आने 

चौड़े करघों में प्रयुक्त नाल की चौड़े करषों में प्रयुक्त नाल की वाली नालों के विषय में अपेक्षाएं निर्धारित 
विशिष्टिः ( पहला पुनरीक्षण ) विशिष्टि 

की गई हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 3. 00 ) 
14 IS : 3062 - - 1970 रॉकर स्पेपर IS : 3062 - - 1965 रॉकर स्प्रेयर इस मानक में द्रव रूप में कीट नाशकों , कृमि 
की विशिष्टि ( पहला पुनरीक्षण ) की विशिष्टि 

नाशकों , खरपतवार नाशकों , इत्यादि छिड़कने 
में काम आने वाले रॉकर स्प्रेयर के विषय में 
अपेक्षाएं तथा कार्यप्रदता की परीक्षण पद्धतियां 
निर्धारित की गई हैं । 
( मूल्य रु० 5 . 00 ) 


1 TSकी विशिष्ट (पहल पुनर राख्ने 


15 IS : 3078 - - 1971 कताई मशीनों IS : 3078 - - 1965 कताई मशीनों इस मानक में IS : 3523 - - 1970 रिंग कताई 
के रिंगों की विशिष्टि ( पहला के रिंगों की विशिष्टि 

मशीनों के धातु के ट्रेवलरों की विशिष्टि 
पुनरीक्षण ) 

( पहला पुनरीक्षग ) में निर्धारित अपेक्षाओं 
के अनुरूप धातु के ट्रैवलरों के साथ रिंग कताई 
मशीनों में काम आने वाले प्रचलित प्रकार के 
रिंगों के विषय में अपेक्षाएं दी गई हैं । 
( मूल्य रु० 5 . 00 ) 


16 IS : 3368 - -- 1970 तार और IS : 3368 - - 1965 तार और इस मानक में ऐसे निम्नलिखित दो प्रकार के 

इस्पात के चपटे हील्डों के लिए इस्पात के चपटे हील्डों के लिए तार और इस्पात के चपटे हील्डों के विषय में 
लकड़ी के हील्ड -फेमों की विशिष्टि लकड़ी के हील्ड -फ्रेमों की विशिष्टि अपेक्षाएं दी गई हैं जो IS : 1190 - -- 1969 
( पहला पुनरीक्षण ) 

तार के दोहरे हील्डों ( जैकई फैन्सी और 
पटमन बुनाई को छोड़कर ) को विशिष्टि 
( पहला पुनरीक्षण ) और IS : 2487 - - 
1963 मूती रेगमी ऊनी और वस्द बनाई 
के लिए इस्पात के चाटे हील्डों ( जैकई और 
लीनों बुनाई को छोड़कर ) की विशिष्टि के 
अनुरूप हों : 
( क ) दो सिरों के बैकटों वाले हील्ड फेम ; 

और 
( ख ) मिले हुए लकड़ी के अंत स्टेव और अंत 

बकटों वाले हील्ड फेम । 

( मूल्य रु० 5 . 00 ) 
* 17 IS : 446 5---- 1970 चपटे इस्पात IS : 4465 --- 1967 चपटे इस्पात इस मानक में IS : 2487---- 1963 सूती , 

के हील्डों के लिए धातु के हील्ड फेमों के हील्डों के लिए धातु के हील्ड-फेमों रेशमी ऊनी और वर्टेड बुनाई के लिए 
की विशिष्टि ( पहला पुनरीक्षग ) की विशिष्टि 

चपटे इस्पात के हील्डों ( जैकई और लीनों 
बनाई को छोड़कर ) की विशिष्टि 
के अनुरूप इस्पात के चपटे हील्डों के धातू 
के हील्ड-फेनों के विषय में अपेक्षाएं की 
गई हैं । 
( मूल्य रु० 5 . 00 ) 


* भा० मा० संस्था प्रमाणन महर योजना के लिए IS : 7910 - - 1970, 1 सितम्बर 1971 से लाग होगा । 


SEC. 3 ( il ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29, 1894 


4683 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- - 


- - - - - -- - - - 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- -- - - - - - - - 


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 


- 


- 


- - 


-- - - 


- - - - -- -- - - - 


18. IS : 5000 ( प्रो डी 10 ) - - 1971 

एक उदश चालक माधनों के माप : 
साधन रूप रेखा प्रो डी 10 


19 . IS : 5000 (ो डी 11) - -- 1971 

एकदिश चालक साधनों के माप : 

साधन रूप रेखा ओ डी 11 
20 . IS : 5000 ( प्रो डी 12 ) - 1971 

एक दिश चालक साधनों के माप : 
साधन रूपरेखा प्रो डी 12 


Is : 4468 - 1967 चपटे इस्पात इस मानक में एकदिश चालक साधनों , साधन 
____ के होल्डों के लिए धातु के रूप रेखा श्री डी 10 के माप निर्धारित 
हील्ड फेमों की विशिष्टि किये गये हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 3. 00 ) 
इस मानक में एकदिश चालक साधनों , साधन रूप 

रेखा प्रोडी 10 के मापनिर्धारित किये गये हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 3 . 00 ) 
इम मानक में एकदिश चालक साधनों, माधन 

रूपरेखा ओ डी 12 के माप निर्धारित किये 
गये हैं । 
( मल्य स० 3 . 00 ) 


21 . IS : 5000 ( प्रो डी 13) - - 1971 

एकदिश चालक साधनों के माप : 
साधन रूपरेखा प्रो डी 13 


इस मानक में एकदिश चालक माधनों, माधन 

रूपरेखा प्रो डी 13 के माप निर्धारित किये 
गये हैं । 
( मूल्य रु० 3. 00 ) 


22 . IS : 5000 (प्रोडी 14) --- 1971 

एकदिश पालक साधनों के माप : 
साधन रूपरेखा मोडी 14 


इस मानक में एकदिश चालक साधनों , साधन 

कारेखा मोडी 14 के माप निर्धारित किये 
गये हैं । 
( मल्य १० 3 . 00 ) 


23 . IS : 5493 - - 1969 पिटवां तांबे की 

और ताम्र मिश्रधातुओं की नलियों 
के माप 


इस मानक में पिटवां तांबे की और साम्र मिश्र 
धातुओं की खिवी हई नलियों के माप और 
छुटें दी गई हैं । 
( मूल्य रु० 2. 00 ) 


- 


24 . IS : 5660 - - 1970 बुम्हश से लगने 

वाले एल्युमिनियम रेड -प्राक्साइड 
प्राइमर, तैयार मिश्रित रंग - रोगन की 
विशिष्टि 


इस मानक में चुग मे लगने वाले एल्प मिनियम 
रेड आक्माइड प्राइमर, तपार मिश्रित रंग 
रोगन के विषय में अपेक्षाएं प्रौर बानगी लेने 
तथा परीक्षग की पद्वतियां दी गई हैं । यह 
वस्तु इस्पात की चीजों पर प्राइमर के रूप में 
काम पाती है । 
( मूल्य रु० 3 . 50 ) 


25 . IS : 5675 - - 1971 घुर्णन चकती 

नुमा निर्वात फिल्टरों की विशिष्टि 


छम मानक में अटूट कम से छनाई वाली घूर्णन 

चकतीनमा निर्वात फिन्टरों के विषय में 
मामान्य अपेक्षाएं निर्धारित की गई हैं । इस 
निर्वात फिल्टर में सेक्टर नुमा घूर्णन चकतियों 
के ऊर्भ सतहों पर स्थित एक फिल्टर आधार 
होता है । यह आधार उर्ध्व में प्रांशिक रूप से 
इबा रहता है और मुक्त रूप से बहने वाले 
उदासीन , अम्लीय तथा क्षारीय निलम्बित 
पदार्थों को अलग करने के काम आता है । 
( मूल्य रु० 4. 00 ) 


4684 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II - -- 


1 


26 . IS : 5815 ( भाग 1 )--- 1971 

मछली पकड़ने की गियर मामग्रियों 
की परीक्षण पद्धति : भाग 1 मोटाई 
निकालना 


इस मानक में जाल बनाने की डोरी की मोटाई 
निकालने की पद्धति दी गई है । यह मोटाई 
मानक में बाहर निकले रोगों को छोड़कर 
सतह और उसकी विपरीत मतह के बीच की 
दूरी और वस्त्रादि के क्षेत्र में ऊपरी और 
निचली सतहों के बीच की दूरी के रूप में 
परिभाषित की गई है । 
( मूल्य ८० 1 . 50 ) 


27 . IS : 5822 -- 1970 जल वितरण 

के लिए वेल्डकृत इस्पात के पाइप 
डालने की रीति संहिता 


इम मानक में 200 मिमी या उससे अधिक के 
ग्यास वाले मदु इस्पात के वेल्डकृत पाइप 
डालने की पद्धतियां दी गई हैं । ये पाइप जल 
वितरण के लिए जमीन से ऊपर या भीतर 
डाले जाते हैं । इस मानक में पाइपों के धरने 
उठाने और उनमें जोड़ लगाने तथा उनके 
जलस्थैतिक परीक्षण भी दिये गये हैं । 
( मूल्य म० 7 . 00 ) 
इस मार्गदर्शिका में ऐसे गोल इनमल चढ़े तारों 

की उपयोगिता अवधि निकालने की परीक्षण 
विधि दी गई है जिनके व्यास 0 . 25 से 
3 . 35 मिमी तक के होते हैं । 


28 . IS : 5825 -- 1970 इनेमलकृत तारों की 

तापसहनशीलता की मूल्यां 
कन मार्गदर्शिका । 


39 . IS : 5826 - 1970 अनाज के समतल 

भंडारों ( 200 मीटरी टन से ऊपर 
समाई वाले ) की निर्माण अपेक्षाय । 


इस मानक में छुट्टा प्रमाज भराई के काम प्राने 

वाले 200 मीटरी टनों से अधिक समाई 
वाले समतल भंडारों की निर्माण सम्बन्धी 
अपेक्षोयें निर्धारित की गई हैं । 
(मूल्य रु० 4 . 00 ) 


30 , IS : 5839 - 1970 प्राइस- क्रीम के 

निर्माण , भंडारण और विक्रय की 
सफाई सम्बन्धी स्थितियों की 
संहिता । 


इस मानक में विभिन्न प्रकार की प्राइसक्रीम 
तैयार करने, उनकी पैकिंग, भंडारण , वितरण 
और बिक्री के लिये अपनाई जाने वाली 
सफाई सम्बन्धी स्थितियां और प्रचलित 
रोतियां दी गई हैं । यह संहिता सामान्य 
रूप से प्राइस -कडी तथा अन्य ऐसे ही उत्पादों 
के लिये भी लागू होते है । 
( मूल्य रु० 8 . 50 ) 


31 . Is : 5857 - 1970 निकेल और निकेल 

मिश्रधातु की खुली ठोस वेल्डिंग 
छड़ों और इलेक्ट्रोडों की विशिष्टि । 


इस मानक में प्रक्रिय- गैस टंग्स्टन आर्ग वेल्डिंग 

अथवा गैस मैटल पार्क वेल्डिंग द्वारा निकेल 
और निकेल मिश्रधातुओं की वेल्डिग में काम 
पाने वाले खुले ठोस पूरक छड़ों और तारों 
के विषय में अपेक्षायें दी गई हैं । इसमें पूरक 
छड़ों की रसायनिक रचना भी निर्धारित की 
गई है । 
( मूल्य रु० 5 . 50 ) 


SEC. 3 (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 
- - - - - - - - - - 


4685 


- - 


- - - 


1 


32. IS : 5858 ( भाग 1 ) - 1970 जल 

यानों पर यांत्रिक मंवातन प्रणालियों 
के सहायक साधनों की विशिष्टि 
भाग 1 अप्रतिगामी वाल्य । 


33. IS : 5865 - 1970 महिलाओं और 

लड़कियों के जूतों की लकड़ी की 
एडियों की विशिष्टि । 


इस मानक में जलयानों की यांत्रिक संवातन 
प्रणालियों में काम आने वाले अप्रतिगामी 
वाल्यों से सम्बन्धित सामग्री और माप नियत 
किये गये हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 2 . 00 ) 
इस मानक में महिलाओं और लड़कियों के जूतों 
लगने वाली लकड़ी की एड़ियों के विष में 
अपेक्षाय और बानगी लेने तथा परीक्षण की 
पद्धतियां निर्धारित की गई हैं । 

( मूल्य रू0 5 . 50 ) 
इस मानक में यात्री डिब्बों में भीतरी रोशनी के 
लिये लगाये जाने वाले शीशों के विषय में 
माप सम्बन्धी अपेक्षायें और बानगी लेने 
तथा परीक्षण की पद्धतियां निर्धारित की गई 


34. IS : 5870 - 1970 यात्री डिब्बों में 

भीतरी रोशनी के लिये शीशे । 


35. IS : 5878 ( भाग 5 ) - 1971 सुरंगों 

के निर्माण की रीति संहिता भाग 5 
कंक्रीट का अस्तर । 


36. IS : 5886 - 1970 खाद्य पदार्थों में 

केरोटिन और विटामिन ए ( रेटी 
नाल ) की मात्रा परखने की पद्धतियां । 


37. IS : 5890 - 1970 हलके काम के लिए 

चल गर्म मिश्रक ऐल्फाल्ट संयंत्र 
की विशिष्टि । 


( मूल्य रु० 2 . 50 ) 
इस मानक में मुरंगों में कंक्रीट का अस्तर देने 

सम्बन्धी विशिष्टियां और विधियां दी गई 
हैं । इस मानक में गारा भराई की पैक और 
दाब दोनों विधियां दी गई हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 2 . 50 ) 
इम् मानक में खाद्य पदार्थों में केरोटीन औरविटा 
मिन ए ( रेटीनाल ) की मात्रा परखने की 
पद्धतियां दी गई हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 5 . 00 ) 
इस मानक में विधि से ऐस्फाल्ट मिश्रण के लिए 

प्रयुक्त लघु समाई वाले संयंत्र में लगने वाली 
सामग्री, डिजायन ,निर्माण , समाई और कार्य 
प्रदता सम्बन्धी अपेक्षायें नियत की गई हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 3. 50) , 
इस मानक में तांबा मिश्र धातुओं की अक्रिय गैस 

पार्क विधि अर्थात् अक्रिय गैस टंग्स्टन पार्क 
वल्डिग अथवा गैस मेटल आर्क वेल्डिंग विधि 
द्वारा वेल्डिंग के लिए प्रयुक्त खुली ठोस 
पूरक छड़ों और तारों के विषय में अपेक्षायें 
निर्धारित की गई हैं । मानक में इन छड़ों 

और तारों की रसायनिक रचना भी 
निर्दिष्ट है । 
( मूल्य रु० 5 . 00 ) 


38. IS : 5898 - 1970 तांबा और तांबा 

मिश्र धातु की वेल्डिंग के लिये 
खुली ठोस छड़ें और इलेक्ट्रोउ । 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


4686 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29 , 1894 


( PART II 


- - - - - - - - - - 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- - - - - - - - - -.. . 


- 


- - 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


شه 


39 IS : 5914 - 1970 चमड़े को भौतिक निम्नलिखित मानकों में दी गई सभी इस मानक में सभी प्रकार के चमड़ों पर भौतिक 
परीक्षण पद्धतियां । भौतिक पद्धतिया 

परीक्षण करने की पद्धतियां दी गई हैं । 
( 1 ) IS : 582 - 1954 वनस्पति यदि इस मानक में दी गई परीक्षण पद्धति 

और क्रोम द्वारा कमाए चमड़ों की और वस्तु सम्बन्धी मानक विशिष्टि में निर्धा 
बानगी लेने तया परीक्षण की पद्ध रित परीक्षण पद्धति में कोई अन्तर पाया जाए 
तियां , और 

तो उस स्थिति में द्वितीय को ही माना जाये । 
( 2 ) IS : 1016 - 1959 तेल द्वारा ( मूल्य रु० 15. 50 ) । 
कमाए चङ्गड़ों की बानगी लेने और 
परीक्षण की पद्धतियां । 


40 IS : 5944 - 1971 पट मन के करघों 

की नालों में काम आने वाले उपांगों 
की विशिष्टि । 


इस मानक में नालों के कुछ उपांगों जैसे आफसेट 
टिप , ढक्कन , ढक्कन का ताला , ड्रेग स्प्रिग , 
पिन और कांटों के विषय में अपेक्षायें दी गई हैं । 
( मूल्य रु० 5 . 00 ) । 


41 IS : 5946 - 1970 घुमाने वाले आर्द्र 

तामापी की विशिष्टि । 


इस मानक में वायु का तापमान और वायुमण्डलीय 

प्रार्द्रता नापने के लिये प्रयुक्त घुमाने वाली 
आर्द्रतामापियों के विषय में अपेक्षायें निर्धारित 
की गई हैं । 
( मूल्य रु० 2 . 00 ) । 


42 IS : 5947 - 1970 अभिलेखी मौसम 

विज्ञान यंत्रों के लिये चार्ट । 


इस मानक में निम्नलिखित मौसम विज्ञानी साप्ता 

हिक अथवा दैनिक समय घंटियों वाले यंत्रों 
में काम में आने वाले चाटों के विषय में अपेक्षायें 
दी गई हैं । 
( 1 ) अभिलेखी वर्षामापी ; 
( 2 ) द्विवधात्विक ऊष्मालेखी ; 
( 3 ) बाल वाला प्रार्द्रतालेखी ; और 
( 4 ) मजल वायु दाबलेखी । 
( मूल्य रु० 5 . 50 ) । 


43 IS : 5948 - 1970 तापमापियों की 

जालियों की विशिष्टि । . 


इस मानक में वायु का तापक्रम और पात्रता 

नापने के लिये तापमापियों और अभिलेखी 
यंत्रों को खुले में रखने के लिये प्रयुक्त तापमापी 
जालियों के विषय में अपेक्षायें निर्धारित की 
की गई हैं । 
( मूल्य २० 2 . 50 ) । 


44 IS : 5959 ( भाग 1 ) - 1970 पाली 

इथाइलीन रोधित और पी वी सी 
खोल वाले ( भारी कामों के लिये ) 
बिजली के केबलों की विशिष्टि : 
भाग 1 1100 वोल्ट तक की कार्य 
फारी बोल्टता के लिये 


इस मानक में बिजली के वितरण और नियंत्रण 

कार्यों में काम आने वाले इकहरे कोर दोहरे 
कोर, तीन कोर और बहु-कोर बाले पाली, इथा 
इलीन रोधित और पी वी सी खोल वाले 
कवचदार और बिना कवच वाले दोनों प्रकार 
के केबलों के विषय में अपेक्षायें विहित हैं । 
( मूल्य रु० 5 . 50 ) । 


Src. 3 (ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


4687 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3) 


( 4 ) 


45. IS : 5962- 1970 प्रांशिक मखनिया 

इस मानक में प्रांशिक मखनिया खट्टे दूध के 
खट्टे दूध के पाउडर की विशिष्टि 

पाउडर के विषय में अपेक्षाएं और बानगी 
लेने तथा परीक्षण की पद्धतियां निर्धारित की 
गई हैं 

( मूल्य रु० 2 . 00 ) 
46. IS : 5973 - 1970 पैन नुमा वाष्प 

इस मानक में पैन नुमा वाष्पमापी के विषय में 
मापी की विशिष्टि 

अपेक्षाएं निर्धारित क, गई हैं । इस मापी में 
एक पैन , तार की जाली का ढक्कन , जड़ी 
हई जाली , नापने का सिलिन्डर, कलैम्प में 
लगा हुअा तापमापी और लकड़ी का एक 
पटल होता है । 

( मूल्य रु० 3. 50 ) 
47. IS : 5982- 1970 अन्य चीनियों से IS : 499 - 1958 निर्यात पैन चीनी इस मानक में निर्वात पैन विधि द्वारा तैयार की गई 

पहचान के लिये प्रयुक्त प्लांटेशन ( प्लांटेशन सफेद ) की परीक्षण प्लांटेशन सफेद चीनो के विषय में अपेक्षाएं 
सफेद चीनी की विशिष्ट पद्धतियां 

और बानगी लेने तथा परीक्षण की पद्धतियां 
निर्धारित की गई हैं । इसका उद्देश्य मुख्य 
रूप से विभिन्न चीनियों में पहचान के लिए 
रसायनिक लक्षण निर्धारित करना है । 

( मूल्य रु० 7. 00 ) 
48. IS : 5987 - 1970 स्विचों ( 1000 

इस संहिता में 1000 वोल्ट ए सी / डी सी से 
वोल्ट से अनाधिक बोल्टता वाले ) 

अधिक वोल्टता वाले स्विचों के चुनाव सम्बन्धी 
के चुनाव की रीति संहिता 

बातें दी गई हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 4. 00 ) 
49. IS : 5990 -1971 शेयर मशीनों 

इस मानक में मशीनों और द्रव चालित दोनों 
के साइज । 

प्रकार की शेयर मशीनों के मूल माप दिए गए 


50. IS : 599 5--1971 पाइपनुमा ग्रिप 

वाले प्लासों की विशिष्टि 


51. IS : 5999 -- 1971 स्विच लचों की 

विशिष्टि । 


( मूस्य रु० 3. 00 ) 
इस मानक में पाइपनुमा ग्रिप वाले प्लासों के विषय 
में माप और अपेक्षाएं दी गई हैं । 

( मूल रु० 3. 00 ) 
इस मानक में मशीन किए जाते समय किसी 
पुर्जे को यथास्थान रखने के लिये काम में 
पाने वाले स्विंग लैचों के विषय में माप और 
अपेक्षाएं निर्धारित की गई हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 3 . 00 ) 
इस मानक में रेलवे में काम आने वाली रेल 

संडासियों के विषय में माप और अपेक्षाएं 
दी गई हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 3. 00 ) 
इस मानक में बाक्सनुमा पानों थे लगने वाली 

टामी छड़ों के विषय में माप और अपेक्षाएं 
निर्धारित की गई हैं । 
( मूल्य रु० 3. 00 ) 


52. IS : 6000 - 1971 रेलवे के लिये 

रेल संडासी की विशिष्टि 


53. IS : 6002- 1971 बाक्सनुमा पानों 

के लिये टामी छड़ों की विशिष्टि 


4688 


CHE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972 /ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II — 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


- - - - - - - - - 


54. IS : 6003 - 1970 पूर्व प्रबलित कंक्रीट 

कंक्रीट के लिये खुरदरे तार की 
विशिष्टि 


55. IS : 6013--1970 फाउंडियों में काम 

पाने वाली कनियों की विशिष्टि 


56. IS : 6015-- 1970 बेरियम हाइ 

ड्राक्साइड की विशिष्टि 


57. IS : 6016 -- 1970 वेल्डिंग और 

कटाई उपकरणों के होज कनेक्शनों 
की विशिष्टि 


इस मानक में पूर्व प्रबलित कंक्रीट में काम पाने 
वाले सख्त खिचे खुरदरे नार के निर्माण , सप्लाई 

और परीक्षण सम्बन्धी अपेक्षाएं निर्धारित की 
गई हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 4 . 00 ) 
इस मानक में फाउंड़ियों में काम आने वाली 

कन्नियों के विषय में अपेक्षाएं दी गई हैं । 
इन कम्नियों का उपयोग मांचे बनाने , फिनिश 
देने और मरम्मत में किया जाता है । 

( मूल्य रु0 5 . 50 ) 
इस मानक में बेरियम हाइड्राक्माइट के विषय में 

अपेक्षाए और बानगी लेने तथा परीक्षण की 
पद्धतियांनिर्धारित की गई हैं । 

( मूल्य रु . 5 . 00 ) 
इस मानक में गैस वेल्डिंग और कटाई के उपकरणों 

में काम आने वाले 12 . 5 मिमी तक के 
सांकेतिक नाप के मुंह वाले होजों के लिये 
कनेक्शन फिटिंग के विषय में अपेक्षाएं दी गई हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 4 . 00 ) 
इस मानक में फसल काटने की मशीनों की कटाई 

छड़ के गाडों के विषय में सामग्री और माप 
सम्बन्धी अपेक्षाएं निर्धारित की गई हैं । 

( मूल्य २० 3. 50 ) 
इस मानक में फपल काटने की मशीनों की कटाई 

छड में लगे फलों की संख्या में लगने वाली 
सामग्री और माप, काट की चौड़ाईनिर्धारित 
की गई है । 

( मूल्य २० 3 . 50 ) । 
इस मानक में मैकरेल के विषय में अपेक्षाएं और 

बानगी लेने तथा परीक्षण की पद्धतियां निर्धा 
रित की गई हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 3 . 50 ) 
इस मानक में दांत चिकित्सा में काम आने वाली 


58. IS : 6024 - 1970 फसल काटने की 

मशीनों के गार्डो की विशिष्टि 


59. IS : 6025 -1970 फसल काटने की 

मशीनों के फलों की विशिष्टि 


60. IS : 6033 - 1971 जमी मैकरेल की 

विशिष्टि 


61. IS : 6037 - 1970 दांत की छाप लेने 

की जस्ता प्राक्साइड यूजीनोल पेस्ट 
की विशिष्टि 


62. IS : 6038 - 1970 दांत की छाप लेने 

के यौगिक की विशिष्ट 


इड यूजीनोल के विषय में अपेक्षाएं और बानगी 
लेने तथा परीक्षण की पद्धतियां निर्धारित की 
गई हैं । 

( मूल्य रु० 3. 50 ) 
इस मानक में दांत को छाप लेने के यौगिक के 

विषय में अपेक्षाएं और बानगी लेने तथा 
परीक्षण की पद्धतियांनिर्धारित की गई हैं । 
( मूल्य रु० 3. 50 ) 


CA 


HC. 3 ( ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21 , 1972 / ASVINA 29, 1894 


4689 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


63. IS : 60 39 - 1970 जम्ना पाकमाइड 

युजीनोल दल सीमेंट की विशिष्टि 


इस मानक में जस्ता प्राक्साइड यूजीनोल दंत 

सीमेंट के विषय में अपेक्षाएं और बानगी 
लेने तथा परीक्षण की पद्धतियांनिर्धारित की 
गई हैं । 
( मूल्य रु० 3 . 50 ) 


64. IS : 6050 - 1971 गर्म उबाऊ पद्धति 

से चढ़ाये जाने वाले , उतर सकने 
वाले अस्थायी संज्ञारण रोधकों 
की विशिष्टि 


इस मानक में उतर सकने वाले गर्म डुबाऊ 
पद्धति से चढ़ाए जाने वाले अस्थायी संधारण 
रोधकों के विषय में अपेक्षाएं और बानगी लेने 
तथा परीक्षण की पद्धतियां निर्धारित की गई 
हैं । ये रोधक भंडारण और परिवहन में प्रयुक्त 
इस्पात तांबे और एल्यूमिनियम जैसा धातुमो 
के पुजों के लिये उपयुक्त होते हैं । 
( मूल्य २० 4 . 00 ) 


65. IS : 6053 ( भाग 1 ) - 1970 जूता 

उद्योग के लिये हाथ के औजारों की 
विशिष्टि भाग 1 उपल्ला काटने की 
रॉपी 


इस मानक में जूते के ऊपरी भागों की कटाई 
में काम पाने वाली रॉपियों के विषय में अपेक्षाएं 
पौर बानगी लेने तथा परीक्षण की पतियो 
निर्धारित की गई है । 
( मूल्य रु . 3 . 50 ) 


66. IS : 6054- 1970 क्लीयरर कपड़े 

की विशिष्टि 


इस मानक में क्लीयरर कपड़े के विषय में अपेक्षाएं 
निर्धारित की गई हैं । 
( मूल्य रु० 3 . 00 ) 


67 . IS : 6057 -- 1970 एल्यमिनियम पर 

सख्त एनोडी लेपनों की विशिष्ट 


इस मानक में इंजीनियरी उपयोंगो के लिये 

एल्यूमिनियम पर चड़ाए गए सख्स एनोडी 
लेपनों के विषय में अपेक्षाएं निर्धारित की गई 
है । इसमें सजावटी कार्यों के लिये प्रयक्त 
सख्त एनोडीकरण को नहीं शामिल किया 
गया है । 
( मूल्य २० 2 . 50 ) 


68. IS : 60 61 ( भाग 1 ) - 1971 कड़ियों 

और भराव चौकों से फर्श और 
छतों के निर्माण की रीति संहिता 
भाग 1 कंक्रीट के खोखले भराव 
चौकों वाली 


इस मानक में पूर्व ढले प्रबलित सीमेंट कंक्रीट 

अथवा पूर्व प्रबलित कंक्रीट की कड़ियों और 
सीमेंट के खोखले भराव चौकों से बनने वाले 
फों और छतों के निर्माण की पद्धति दी गई 
है । इन छतों अथवा फों के ऊपर 
कंक्रीट की एक परत दी गई होती है । 
( मूल्य रु० 4 . 00 ) 


69. IS : 6079 - 1971हलवां मिथ इस्पात 

के घर्षक माध्यम की विशिष्टि 


इस मानक में बलवां इस्पात की घर्षक माध्यमों 

के विषय में अपेक्षाएं दी गई हैं । 
( मूल्य रु० 2 . 00 ) 


4690 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 21, 1972/ ASVINA 29, 1894 


( PART II 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3) 


( 4 ) 


70. IS : 6093- 1971निर्वात सील किए 

धातु के खाद्य धारकों की समाई और 
माप निकालने की परति । 


71. IS : 6101 - 1971 खांचेदार पैनेसिरे 

घाले पेंचों की विशिष्टि । 


इस मानक में निर्वात सील किये हुये धातु के साथ 
पदार्थों से भरे डिब्बों आदि के विषय में 
शब्दावली, पदनाम , प्रणाली , समाईनिर्धारित 
करने की पद्धति माप बताने और सूचकांक 
सम्बन्धी विधि निर्धारित की गई है । 

( मूल्य २० 3 . 50 ) । 
इस मानक में 2 . 5 से 10 मिमी . व्यास तक के 
खांचेदार पैने सिरे वाले पेनों के विषय में 
अपेक्षायें दी गई हैं । 
( मूल्य रु . 5 . 00 ) । 
इस मानक में दांत चिकित्सा में रोगियों के बैठने 

के काम आने वाली कुसियोंके विषय में अपेक्षायें 
दी गई हैं । 
( मूल्य स० 3 . 00 ) 


72. IS : 6116 - 1971 दांत चिकित्सा कुर्सी 

की विशिष्टि । 


उन भारतीय मानकों की प्रतियां भारतीय मानक संस्था 9 बहादुरशाह जफर मार्ग नई दिल्ली - 1 और उसके शाखा कार्यालयों ( 1 ) 
साधना नरमोहम्मद शेख मार्ग खानपुर , अहमदाबाद - 1 ( 2 ) सिंडिकेट बैंक बिल्डिंग गांधी नगर, बंगलौर - 9 ( 3 ) 434 सरदार बल्लभ 
भाई पटेल रोड बम्बई - 7, ( 4 ) 5, चौरंगी एप्रोच रोड, कलकत्ता - 13, ( 5 ) 5 - 9 - 201/2,चिरापली लेन हैदराबाद - 1, ( 6 ) 117/ 418 
वी सर्वोदय नगर , कानपुर - 5 और ( 7) 54 जनरल पैटर्स रोड , मद्रास - 2 से खरीदी जा सकती हैं । 

[ सं० सी० एम० डी०/ 13 : 2] 
एम० बी० पाटनकर , 
उप महानिदेशक । 


INDIAN STANDARDS INSTITUTION 

New Delhi , the IIth Sept . 1972 
s . o . 3319. - .In exercise of the powers conferred on me under sub- regulation ( 4 ) of regulation 3 of the Indian Standards Institution 
( Certification Marks ) Regulations , 1955 , as amended from time to time , modifications to the provisions of IS : 2073 - 1950 erd 
IS: 4432- 1967 , details of which are mentioned in the Schedule given hereafter , have tentatively bcen n rde with a view to 
expediting the use of the Standard Mark , without in any way affecting the quality of goods covered by the IClcvant standards , 
This notification shall come into force with immediate effect : 


THB SCHEDULE 


Sl. No . and Title of Indian Standard , the Provi - 
No. gions of which have been Modified 


Number( s ) of the Existing 

Clauses Affected 


Particulars of the Modifications made to the 

Provisions 


I IS : 2073-1970 Specification for carbon steel 

black bars for production of machined parts 
for general enginccring purposes 
( first revision ) 


Clauses I . I , 5. I , II , 2 and Table Two new steels , nuinely , CISMn7s and 
I and 5 

C25Mn75 have been included in the 

specification , 


2 


IS 4432 - 1967 Specification for casc hardening 

steels 


Tables 1, 3, 4 and Clause 7. 1 


A new steel, namely , C15Mn75 has been 

included in the specification . 


[ No , CMD/13 : 4 


SEC . 36ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA;- OCTOBER 21 , 1972/ ASVENA 29 , 1834 


4691 


- 


- 


- 


- 


.h 


- + -an- aranp 


m ir 


- Am 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- - - - + aware 


ndraPragana 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


FIो 


. 


. 


७ . 


. . 


new me . 


- 


- 


de 


- 


are 


- 


m 


eants 


भारतीय मानक संस्था 


नई दिल्ली , 11 सितम्बर , 1972 


एस प्रो0 3319. ---समय समय पर संशोधित भारतीय मानक संस्था (प्रमाणन चिन्ह ) विनियम 1955 के विनियम 3 के उप 
विनियम ( 4 ) के अधीन प्राप्त शक्तियों के आधार पर मानक प्रमाणन मुहर लगाने के कार्य में गति लाने के उद्देश्य से IS • 2073 - 1970 

औ : IS 4432-- 14967 के उपबंधों में जिनके ब्यौरे नीचे अनुसूची में दिए गए है कुछ परिवर्तन परीक्षण के रूप में किए गए हैं । इन 
परिवर्तनों से तत्सम्बन्धी भारतीय मानक के अधीन माल की किस्म पर कोई प्रभाव नहीं पड़े यह अधिसूचना तुरन्त लाग हो जायेगी । 

अनुसूची 


क्रम 
संख्या 


भारतीय मानक की संख्या और शीर्षक जिमके उप - वर्तमान उपबन्धों का विवरण 

बन्धों में संशोधन हुआ है 


उपबन्धों में दिए हर परिवर्तनों का 
विवरण 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


और इस विशियष्ट में दो नए इस्पात जैसे Cl15 

Mn75 और Cl25Mn 75 शामिल 
किए गए हैं । 


1 IS : 2073--1970 सामान्य इंजीनियरी कार्यों खंड 1. 1 , 5 . 1, 11 . 2 

के लिए मशीनकृत पूों के उत्पादन के लिए सारणी 1 और 5 
कार्बन इस्पात की काली छड़ों की विशिष्टि 

( पहला पुनरीक्षण ) 
2 IS : 4432 - 1967 सतह कठोरकारी इस्पात सारणी 1 , 3, 4, और खंड 
की विशिष्टि 

7 . 1 


इस विशिष्टि में एक नया इस्पात Cl 15 

Mn 75 शामिल किया गया है ; 


[सं० सी० एम० डी / 13: 4] 


New Delhi tha 291h Septeinber 1972 


S . O . 3320 . - - In exercise or the powers conferred on me unler sub - regulation ( 4 ) of regulation 3 of the Indian Standards Institution 
( Certification Marks Regulations 1965 , as amended froin tim tu tim , modifications to the provisions of IS : 1875 - 1971 & IS : 
2004- 1970 , details of which are mentioned in the Schedule given hereafter , have tentatively been made with a view to expediting 
the use of the Standard Mark without in any way affecting the quality of goods covered by the relevent standards . This notification shall 
come into force with effect from 1 October 1972 


THE SCHEDULE 


- 


- 


- 


na 


Si. No . and Title of Indian Standard 
No . the Provisions of which have been 

Modified . 


Number (s) of the Existing 
Clauses Affected 


Particulars of the Modifications made to the Provisions 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


( 3 ) 


Clauses I . I , 8 . 2 , 8 . 2 2 ; 
Tables 1 & 2 and Fig . I 


Two new steels , namely CISMn75 and C25Mn75 
have been included in the specification . 


I. IS : 1875 - 1971 Specification for 

carbon steel billets , blooms, slabs 
and bars for forgings 
( Third revision) 


2. IS : 2004 - 1970 Specification for Clause I . I , Tables I & 2 and Fig. Two new stcels , namely , CISMn75 and C25Mn75 

carbon steel for gingsfor general 
engincering purposes ( first rersion ) 


samanna 


am 


m 


arwas 


[ NO. CMD/ 13 : 4] 

S. K . SEN , 
Director General . 


नई दिल्ली, 29 सितम्बर , 1972 


एस०प्रो० 3320.---- समय-समय पर संशोधित भारतीय मानक संस्था (प्रमाणन चिह्न ) विनियम 1955 के विनियम 3 के 
उपविनियम ( 4) के अधीन प्राप्त शक्तियों के आधार पर मानक प्रमाणन मुहर लगाने के कार्य में गति लाने के उद्देश्य से IS : 
1875 - 1971 और IS : 2004 - 1970 के उपबन्धों में जिन के ब्यौरे नीचे अनुसूची में दिए गए हैं , कुछ परिवर्तन परीक्षण के रूप में 


4692 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 21, 1972 / ASVINA 29 , 1894 


[ PART II --- 


किए गए है । इन परिवर्तनों में गत्मम्बन्धी भारतीय मानना रे गधीन गाल की विम्म पर कोई प्रभाव नहीं पडेगा । गत मधिमचना 
1 अक्टूबर, 1972 से लाग हो जाएगी : 


अनुसूची 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


वर्तमान उपबन्धों का विवरण 


क्रम 
संख्या 


उपबन्धों में दिए हा पग्विांगों का विमग्ण 


। 


भारतीय गानक भी मंग्या और 
शीर्षक जिसके उपबन्धों में संशोधन 

हुआ है 


- - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - -- - -- - - - 


इस विमिति में दो नए इस्पान जैसे C15 

Mn 75 977 C 35 Mn 75 
शामिल किए गए हैं । 


1 IS : 1875 - 1971 गढी चीजों के खण्ड 1 , 1, 8 . 2, 8 . 2 . 2 ; मारणियां 

लिए कार्बन इस्पात के बिलेट , और ) और प्राकृति । 
ब्लूम , सिल्लियां और छड़ों की 

विशिष्टि ( तीसरा पुनरीक्षण ) 
2 IS : 2004 - 1970 सामान्य इंजी - खण्ड 1 . 1, सारणियां 1 और 2 और 

नियरी कार्यों के लिए कार्बन - आकृति 1 
इस्पात की गढ़ी हुई वस्तुभों की 
विशिष्टि ( पहला पुनरीक्षण ) 


इस विशिष्टि में दो नए इस्पात जैसे CI 

Mn 75 और C25 Mn75 शामिल 
किए गए हैं । 


[ सं० सी० एम० डी० /13:4 ] 
एस० के ० सेन , महानिदेशक । 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


rn . - 


. 


- - 


- 


- 


- । - 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


. 


PRINTED BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS , MINTO ROAD , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1972 


feed to do 223 


REGISTERED NO. D . 


भारतको राजपत्र 
The Gazette of Fradia 


प्राधिकार से प्रकाशित 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


21 


Fas 


HO 44 ) 
No . 44 ] 


af faeeft, afzate , naqat 28, 1972/ 1f 6, 1894 
NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 28 , 1972/KARTIKA 6 , 1894 


: 


- 


इस भाग में भित्र पृष्ठ संख्या दी जाती है जिससे कि यह अलग संकलन के रूप में रखा जा सके । 
Soparate paging is given to this part in order that it may be filled as a separate compilation 


917 II - T 3 — 544 (ii ) 

PART II — Section 3– Sub- section (1 ) 
( रक्षा मंत्रालय को छोड़कर ) भारत सरकार के मंत्रालयों और ( संघ क्षेत्र प्रशासन को छोड़कर ) 

केन्द्रीय प्राधिकरणों द्वारा जारी किये गए विधिक प्रावेश और प्रषिसूचनाएं । 
Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Government of India 
( other than the Ministry of Defence) und by Central Authorities ( other than the 

Administration of Union Territorles.) 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND REHABILITATION 
( Department of Labour and Employment ) 

New Delhi, the 25th August 1972 
9o . 322 [. — The following proposals made hy the Central Government in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) 
of gub -section ( 1 ) of section 3 read with clause (111 ) of sub- section ( 1) of section 4 of the minimum Wages Act , 
1948 ( I of 1948 ) for revising theminimum rates of wages as specificd in column 2 of the Schedule , annexed hereto , payable to the 
categories of employecg employed in the employment in Agriculture , Specified in the corresponding entries in column I of the said 
schedule , are hereby published , as required by clause (b ) of gub - seciion ( 1 ) of section 5 of the said Act for information of all persons 
likely to be affected there by and notice is hereby given that the said proposals shallbe taken into consideration on or after the expiry of 
three months from the date of publication of this notification in the Official Gazette . 


period 8pe 


Any objection or suggestion which may be recrived from any person with respect to the said proposals before the 
cified above will be considered by the Central Government. 

SCHEDULE 


A11 Inclusiveminimum rates ofwages per day , 


Categories of employees . 


Area A 


Area BI 


Area B2 


Arca C 


Arca D 


Rs. P . 


Rs. P . 


Ra. P . 


Rs. P . 


Ro . P . 


IH 


I 


Unskilled : 
( 1) Beldar (Male /Female ) ; ( 2 ) Calf Boy : ( 3 ) Carticman , 

( 4 ) Chowkidar ; (5 ) Cleaner ; ( 6 ) Cleaner (Motor, Shed ; 
Tractor ; Cattlc Yard ; M . T . ) ; (7 ) Col 
lecting Loosc fodder ; (8 ) Dhobi ; (9 )Dairy Coolles ; 


4693 


