ଶା 
ସତ 


The Odisha 


Gazette 


EXTRAORDINARY 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No.2164 , CUTTACK , SATURDAY , NOVEMBER 26 , 2016 /MARGASIRA 5 1938 


[No. 11487 - T.TSP.II 19/ 2016 / TSM .] 
TOURISM & CULTURE ( TOURISM ) DEPARTMENT 

RESOLUTION 


The 24th November, 2016 


Sub : Odisha Tourism Policy , 2016 . 


The Government of Odisha have taken various steps from time to time to promote 
tourism by pronouncing progressive policies on tourism . The last Tourism Policy of the 
State Government was announced in 2013. Since then , Tourism Sector has grown 
manifold and it is recognised as a major instrument of employment creation and inclusive 
growth . The Industrial Policy Resolution (IPR ) 2015 was announced in August, 2015. In 
the IPR , 2015 , Tourism was declared as a priority sector Industry . In IPR , 2015 , the fiscal 
incentives proposed for priority sector industries are lucrative than the Tourism Policy, 
2013. Therefore , there is a need for developing a new Tourism Policy to address specific 
sectoral issues in the Tourism sector . 


In order to make tourism an important part of economic activities , promote brand 
image of Odisha nationally and internationally , develop and promote the prime tourist 
products, conserve heritage, natural environment and to ensure beneficial outcome to all 
the Stake holders , the State Government have been pleased to publish the Odisha 
Tourism Policy , 2016 which is annexed herewith . 


The resolution shall come into effect from the date of publication in Odisha Gazette. 


The resolution is issued with the concurrence of Finance Department vide their 
U.O.R No.198 /GS . II, dated the 16th November, 2016 and this has been approved in the 
Cabinet meeting held on dated 22nd November, 2016 communicated vide Parliamentary 
Affairs Department Memo No.9594 , dated the 23rd November , 2016 . 


ORDER 


Order that the Resolution be published in an Extraordinary issue of the 
Odisha Gazette and copies thereof forwarded to the A.G ( A & E ) Odisha, Bhubaneswar / all 
Departments of Government / all Heads of Department / all RDCs /all Collectors. 


By Order of the Governor 


G. K. DHAL 


Principal Secretary to Government 


2 


ODISHA TOURISM POLICY , 2016 


1. INTRODUCTION : 


The Tourism industry is a major propeller for economic growth throughout the world . 
Over past decades , tourism has continuously expanded and diversified , to become one of 
the dominant and fastest growing economic sectors. Tourism makes culture , art and 
history accessible to World at large . While generating direct income employment, it has 
tremendous potential to create indirect employment and income due to higher multiplier 
effect. Economies of many countries in the World are propelled by the tourism sector 
alone. 

The Travel and Tourism (T & T ) industry is the largest contributor to employment and 
economy which is 9.8 % of the global GDP (US $ 7.2 trillion ) in 2015 including direct, 
indirect and induced impact (World Travel & Tourism Council). Tourism added 7.2 million 
jobs to the global economy, about 1 in 11 jobs globally (United Nations World Tourism 
Organisation - Tourism Highlights 2015 ). 

Tourism is a growing industry in India. India has moved up 13th position to 52nd rank 
from 65th in Tourism & Travel Competitive Index. As per the Ministry of Tourism , 
Government of India (Gol) Report, the number of foreign tourist arrival in India during 2015 
is 8 million and that of domestic tourist visits to all States / UTs is 1432 million . The foreign 
exchange earnings from tourism sector was INR 1,35,193 crore during the same period . It 
is expected that the number of arrivals in India will increase further into the future with the 
World Travel and Tourism Council making the country the eleventh fastest emerging 
tourism destination in the world . 

Odisha, the soul of Incredible India has tremendous potential in tourism sector, 
because of its golden history , strategic geographical location , diverse demography and 
profound bounties of nature . Puri, the shrine of Lord Jagannath , one of the oldest 
pilgrimage centers , famous for the Car festival, attracts lakhs of pilgrims round the year. 
The world famous Sun Temple , a UNESCO heritage sites at Konark ( 12th century ), the 
temple city of Bhubaneswar (9th century) & Puri ( 11th century) are widely popular as the 
golden triangle which draws tourists , both Domestic & International in hordes . 

Odisha has a long tradition of Buddhism starting from 1st century BC . The Golden 
Casket containing the Buddhist relics , excavated Buddhist Stupas, Monasteries & Viharas 
discovered at Lalitagiri, Ratnagiri & Udayagiri are famous, all over the world . The Ashokan 
rock inscriptions of 3rd Century BC at Dhauli where the historic war of Kalinga was fought 
is the testimony to the existence of strong Buddhist tradition in Odisha. In addition , as 


3 


many as 200 Buddhist heritage sites have also been identified in different parts of the 


State . 


The State is bestowed with profound bounties of nature . Odisha is India s bridge to 
her own golden past and a resurgent present. The grand scenic beauty of nature , historic 
monuments, exotic sea beaches , luxuriant forest, majestic mountains, captivating wildlife , 
mystic waterfalls , beautiful handicrafts, vast water bodies , famous classical and folk 
dances , enchanting music and most importantly, its hospitable people are the wonders 
thatmake the State as the supreme tourism destination of the world . 

The State has made great strides in various sectors of its economy in tune with the 
progressive globalization and the changing demands of the tourists to make tourism a 
sustainable industry in the State . Tourism in Odisha is one of the main contributors to the 
economy of Odisha (13 % of GDP of Odisha ). The State of Odisha secured 3rd rank in 
terms of intensity of overnight domestic tourism , with an average of 541 trips per 100 
households , as compared to the all India average 418 trips per 100 households . 
Therefore , the tourism intensity in Odisha is 29 percent higher than the national level 
tourism intensity (National Council of Applied Economic Research , 2015 ). The 
Government of Odisha has undertaken many historic reforms in all sectors of its economy 
for Ease of Doing Business in the State. It has implemented the momentous Right to Act, 
2012, the progressive Industrial Policy Resolution (IPR ) 2015. These important steps have 
boosted the economy of the State and placed tourism in the forefront as a major factor in 
accelerating the progress of the State . 

The tourist arrival to the State has increased manifold in last decades . In last six 


years the tourist arrival to the State has shown an increasing trend which is a result of 
aggressive campaign undertaken by the State Tourism Department. 


Tourist Visit In Odisha During Last 6 Years 


Year 


Domestic 


Foreign 


Grand Total 


2010-11 


77,70,741 


53,212 


78,23,953 


2011-12 


84,72,208 


62,816 


85,35,024 


2012-13 


92,91,734 


65,522 


93,57,256 


2013-14 


100,64,072 


67,400 


101,31,472 


2014-15 


110,51,351 


72,215 


111,23,566 


2015-16 


120,67,695 


67,364 


121,35,059 


4 


The present policy envisages an aggressive , dynamic and long term approach to 
achieve the growth potential in tourism by initiating identified policy measures , framing the 
required statutory framework , ensuring large scale investment support through 
professional management and private participation , establishing the required synergies 
among various sectors through appropriate institutional arrangements and focused in 
tervention for improvement of value and quality in tourism sector. 


2. VISION : 


To develop Odisha as the supreme tourist destination and to place it prominently on 
the domestic and global tourism map . 


3. THE MISSION : 


( a ) To promote tourism in a mission mode for economic development, inclusive 

growth , employment generation , social equity , integration , resulting in 

eradication of poverty and raising the income levels of the people of the State . 
(b ) To promote the brand image of Odisha nationally and internationally. 
( c) To give high priority to development and promotion of prime tourism products , 

conservation of heritage , natural environment, etc. 
( d ) Ensuring beneficial outcome to all the stakeholders . 


4. THE OBJECTIVES : 


( a ) To promote Sustainable & Green Tourism with a view to create employment 

opportunities and to bring about socio -economic benefits to the community . 
(b ) To preserve , enrich and promote Odisha s unique cultural heritage , natural 

resources and environment with a view to achieve inclusive development; 
addressing the regulatory & tourism promotion / development functions in 
Private Public Partnership (PPP ) mode at all levels in an effective & well 


coordinated manner. 


(c ) To promote Odisha as one stop destination to experience its great history , 

culture society and natural beauty so as to boost foreign & domestic tourist 

arrival in the State . 
( d ) To promote circuit tourism in association with other States of the Eastern Zone 

of the country to facilitate easy arrival and movement of the tourist. 
( e ) To upgrade skill & professionalism and promote employment opportunities in 

tourism sector . 


5 


(f) To promote digital tourism . 
( g ) To promote responsible tourism and develop tourism products in an 

environment friendly manner . 
(h ) To promote barrier - free tourism . 
(0) To promote (1 ) Beach Tourism , (2 ) Eco - Tourism , ( 3) Buddhist Tourism , (4 ) 

Heritage Tourism , (5 ) Religious Tourism , (6 ) Knowledge Tourism , (7 ) Medical 
Tourism , (8 ) Travel Tourism , (9 ) Caravan Tourism , (10 ) Wellness Tourism , (11) 
Cruise Tourism , (12 ) Sand Art Tourism , ( 13 ) Adventure Tourism , in a mission 
mode. 


5. STRATEGY : 


a . Inter -Departmental Support : 


Tourism requires a strong multimodal approach . With this objective in view , the 
State government will synergize all the activities of different departments and 
stakeholders to achieve the overall objective . 


b . Statutory Regulatory Framework : 


Apart from the necessary statutory framework for policy coordination , there is 
utmost necessity to ensure synergy at the field level. To achieve the objectives , similar 
statutory framework is required at the implementation level, in the form of local tourism 
councils/ bodies. The policy aims at enhancing the value of tourist destination in the 
form of improving local sanitation , making the destination beautiful by enforcing 
uniform facade , removing cable clutters and checking encroachments etc. The policy 
aims at bringing synergy among the local bodies, police and public representatives to 
work in tandem , within a statutory regulatory frame work . The Tourism Advisory 
Committee (TAC ) shall recommend to enforce these regulations from time to time. 


c . Development of Infrastructure : 


Development infrastructure in tourism sector is one of the critical components for 
developing tourism in the State . Government would strongly to provide an 
atmosphere & framework for private sector participation in infrastructure development 
to reinforce the efforts made by the Government in this regard . Both domestic & 
foreign private investment shall be encouraged to participate in joint venture or in 
Public Private Partnership (PPP ) mode for development of long term infrastructure in 


the tourism sector . 


6 


d . Land : 


Department of Tourism shall indentify & earmark suitable land parcels in 
important tourist locations for development of tourism projects. The detail land 
schedule reserved for the tourism projects shall be available in Departmental website 
which will be allotted to private sector investors through a transparent mechanism 
after studying techno -economic feasibility & employment generating potential of the 
concerned projects . 
e . Road Transport: 

Department of Tourism shall identify important state highways , roads connecting 
important tourist destination and recommend the appropriate department for widening , 
beautification & high - quality maintenance of these roads . The Government shall 
encourage private sector for providing tourist amenities centre like public 
convenience , parking, cafeteria , souvenir shop , medical facilities etc. alongside 
important roads . The State will encourage private sector investment for boosting the 
transport service for various categories of tourists. 


f. Air Connectivity : 

The State Government shall endeavour to have direct air connectivity to 
important cities and major tourist destinations of the country . State Government shall 
encourage developing small air strips inside the state on PPP mode. Thrust shall be 
on providing more international air linkage , to Bhubaneswar by alluring Airlines 
through underwriting of tickets/ incentives or any other mode as may be necessary to 
increase foreign tourist arrival in the State . 
g . Rail Connectivity : 

The State Government shall pursue with the Indian Railway for expansion of 
railway network inside the State especially to the important tourist destinations . Efforts 
shall also be made to pursue Ministry of Railway for providing more superfast / luxury / 
special train to different important tourist destination of the State . The State shall 
encourage luxury trains in line of Palace -on -Wheels model in association with Indian 
Railway, Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC ) and other 
neighboring States . 
h . Quality Power Supply : 


Department of Tourism shall end eavour to ensure 24 X 365 power supply in 
important tourist destinations . The grid & Lilo line shall be strengthed to ensure quality 
power supply in important tourist destinations . 


7 


i. Civic Amenities : 


Highest priorities shall be accorded to ensure healthy & sanitary conditions in all 
important pilgrim centres & tourist locations beaches through direct intervention by the 
Tourism Department, Urban Development Department, Public Health Department, 
Local Bodies , Non -Government Organisations & Corporate Bodies . Beach cleaning 
authority will be created to oversee the cleanliness ofmajor beaches . 
j. Accommodation : 

Efforts shall be made to encourage private sector investors to create Star 
category hotels , convention centres , heritage hotels , eco camps by granting different 
fiscal incentives, single window clearances facilities, marketing supports, media 
campaign etc. 
k . Eco - tourism : 


The State Government has created a eco - tourism cell under the Forest & 


Environment Department of the State Government. A separate eco -tourism policy has 
been launched for promotion of eco -tourism in the State . Eco - tourism shall be made 
more robust and popularized as an important means to promote tourism in the State 
considering its vast potential. 
1. Rural Tourism : 

The State Government shall identify model villages which are rich from the 
point of view of handicraft and handloom , rural life , social habits & culture . These 
villages shall be developed to model villages to provide unique experience to the 


tourist. 


m . Utilization of inspection bungalows and circuit houses & Government 

accommodations : 


Department of Tourism shall maintain an inventory of inspection bungalows, 
circuit house and other Government accommodations available under water resources , 
works, revenue , forest etc. and shall explore the possibility of developing them under 
PPP mode / any other mode for use of the tourist. 
n . Home Stay Facilities : 

Private house owners shall be encouraged to provide home stay facilities for the 
use of the tourist under bed and breakfast scheme. 


o . Ease of Doing Business : 

For speedy clearance of Tourism Projects single window clearance authority 
has been created which will issue deemed approvals as provided in Odisha Industries 
Facilitation Act, (OIFA ) 2004. The Single Window Clearance Authority shall be made 


8 


more effective , robust and more investor friendly. Right to service has been 
implemented in the state and the Department of Tourism shall rigorously implement 
the Right to Service Act for quick clearance of the projects . 


p . Marketing & Promotion : 

Department of Tourism shall organize various tourism promotion events to 
attract tourists to the State . 


The Department of Tourism shall participate in different leading national & 
international tourism fair and shall provide incentives to the tourism 
stakeholders to participate in international tourism events to increase tourists 
arrival in State . 


• Organize familiarization tours for leading tour operators , travel writers of the 

country and abroad to attract more foreign & domestic tourists . 


Extensive outdoor marketing within the country & abroad which include 
signages in airports , branding of trains, hoardings in strategic locations etc. 


Media campaign both in print & electronics within the country & abroad shall be 
done by the Government to attract more tourists to the State . 


Brand ambassador will be appointed for strengthening the brand name of 
Odisha Tourism . 


q . Capacity Building : 

Capacity building in hospitality sector shall be the topmost priority to build 
highest form of professionalism to create a strong ambience of comfort , confidence 
and communication among the tourists . Department of Tourism shall encourage 
private sector investment in Tourism & Hospitality Sector Institutes for capacity 
building to ensure availability of more skilled manpower required in tourism sector. 
Efforts shall be made to synergize all government schemes and private sector 
initiatives to develop skill in Tourism & Hospitality sector. 
r . Public Awareness : 

The most important aspect of tourism development is to bring in the necessary 
behavioral and attitudinal change in the society to make it tourist friendly and create a 
strong receptive atmosphere . People s participation through Panchayati Raj 
Institutions, Urban Local Bodies , Co -Ops and NGOs shall be encouraged for 
development of tourism and to create public awareness to achieve a broader goal of 
high quality tourist services . 


9 


s .Wayside Amenities : 

The Government has taken a policy decision to establish modern wayside 
amenities to provide quality services to the highway and roadside tourists . More 
wayside amenities shall be developed by synchronizing the activities of various 
Government Department such as Works , Transport, Forest and other concerned 
Departments . 
t. Right to Service : 

The State Government have implemented the Right to Service Act, 2012. The 
Department of Tourism have been brought under the Right to Service Act, which shall 
be rigorously implemented for timely clearances of all tourism projects . 
u . Buddhist & Heritage Tourism : 

The State of Odisha is known for its rich heritage. The State Government shall 
promote heritage tourism to propagate its rich culture and heritage among the people 
of the world . State Government shall promote Buddhist tourism in view of the historical 
significance of Buddhism in the State. Special Buddhist Circuit will be developed by 
linking all the Buddhist sites . 


v . Cruise Tourism : 


Considering the vast coastline , Chilika lake , long stretch of water bodies , 
lakes , there is vast scope for cruise tourism in the State . The State Government shall 
promote cruise tourism by bringing in modern cruises and technology. 
W. Religious Tourism : 

Religious tourism has vast potential in the State in view of the presence of 
historic temples and monuments which shall be developed in a big way in the State . 
x .MICE Tourism : 


The State houses major IT and ITES companies. The State shall promote 
meeting incentive conference and events tourism , to cater the need of multinational 
companies and NGOs. 
y . Knowledge Tourism : 

The State has become the knowledge hub of Eastern India . Many centres of 
higher learnings, university , institutions ofnational and international repute have come 
up in the State . Large number of students , intellectuals visit the State for acquiring 
knowledge. The State shall promote knowledge tourism and facilitate activities of all 
stakeholders . 


10 


z . Barrier - free Tourism : 


The State Government shall assiduously promote barrier- free tourism 
especially for differently-abled tourist. Incentives shall be provided to entrepreneurs / 
people formaking innovation and setting innovative projects for barrier free tourism in 


the tourism sector. 


6. DEFINITIONS : 


6.1. Tourism Unit : 


Tourism Unit means a legal entity under the relevant law , engaged or to be 
engaged in providing any service related to travel and tourism . Following units will be 
considered as Tourism Units : 


a ) Star Category Hotels 
b ) Heritage Hotels 
c ) Apartment Hotels 
d ) Motels 
e ) Convention Centres 
f) Resorts 
g ) Tented Accommodation 
h ) Tourism & Hospitality Training Institutes 
i) Amusement parks / Water Parks / Theme Parks 
j) Adventure Sports 
k ) Wayside Amenities 


6.2 . Effective date : 


Effective date means the date that starts after the gazette notification of Odisha 
Tourism Policy , 2016. The operative period of the policy starts after the effective date . 
6.3 . New Tourism Unit : 


A New Tourism Unit means a Tourism Unit which is set up and which 
commences commercial operation during the operative period of this Policy . 
6.4 . Existing Tourism Unit Undergoing Expansion : 


Existing Tourism Unit taking up expansion of more than fifty per cent of its 
existing capacities ( e.g. Rooms / Riders / Tents , etc. ) after the effective date. Only one 
expansion project of an existing tourism unit will be eligible for incentive during the 
operative period of the Policy . 


11 


6.5 . Commercial Operations : 


Date of Commercial Operations of a Tourism Unit is the date on which the 
Tourism Unit opens to tourists on a commercial basis , after due testing , trial running 
and commissioning under relevant Government rules. A committee consisting of 
District Tourist Officer, an Officer from Department of Tourism to be nominated by the 
Government and representative of principal financing Bank of the project shall certify 

the date of start of commercial operation . 
6.6 . Eligible Tourism Unit: 

New Tourism Unit and Existing Tourism Unit Undergoing Expansion during the 
operative period of the Policy would be considered as Eligible Tourism Units as 
defined in Para . 6.3 and 6.4 . 


6.7 . Apartment Hotel: 


Apartment Hotel unit should have facilities as per the prevailing Guidelines for 
Apartment Hotels laid down by the Ministry of Tourism , Government of India. Such 
Apartment Hotels should obtain necessary category certification from the competent 

authority. 
6.8 . Tented Accommodation : 


Tented Accommodation unit should have facilities as per the prevailing 
guidelines for Tented Accommodation as laid down by the Ministry of Tourism , 
Government of India . Such Tented Accommodation should obtain necessary category 

certification from the Competent Authority . 
6.9 . Tourism & Hospitality Training Institute / University : 


The institute / university must be offering tourism / hospitality courses that are 
recognized / certified by regulatory authorities. 
6.10 . Mega Tourism Unit : 


New projects capable of creating new employment of more than 150 persons 
with investment of Rs.75 crores and above (excluding the cost of land ) will be 
construed as Mega Tourism Units. Units which are set up and which commence 
commercial operations during the operative period of this Policy will only be eligible 
under this category. The proposals ofMega Tourism Units would require due approval 
of the Tourism Advisory Committee (TAC ). 

Hotels and Resorts, Multiplexes and Malls shall be excluded from the definition 
of Mega Tourism Unit. 


12 


6.11. Theme Park : 


Theme Park should be based on a single or series of themes having a plot 
measuring atleast 10,000 sq.m. (about 2.5 acres). It may have amusement rides, 
water slides , accommodation (at least ten lettable rooms), restaurant, theatre , 
shopping area , activity area and theme areas. It is , however, notmandatory to have 


all these features. 


6.12 . Hotel: 


Hotel projects should have facilities of 1 to 5 star categories hotel as per the 
prevailing guidelines of the Ministry of Tourism , Govt. of India . Such hotels should 
obtain category Certificate from the Competent Authorities. These units should have 
a minimum of 20 let table rooms with attached bathrooms. The hotels should have 
adequate provision of toilets for visitors. Size of the rooms and bathrooms, AC 
facilities should be as per the norms prescribed by the Department of Tourism , Govt. 
of India for such hotels . 


6.13 . Resort : 


The Resort project should have a minimum of 20 lettable rooms with attached 
bathrooms. Unless it is a hill station or a beach or a location , which , in the opinion of 
the Department of Tourism , does not require air conditioning, at least 35 % of the 
rooms should be air conditioned . The bathroom carpet area should measure at least 
3.5 sq.mt. It should have restaurant / dining hall with a seating area ofminimum 40 
sq.mt. ( excluding kitchen and storage ). It should have a telephone with STD facility . 
The plot on which resort is located should admeasure at least 10,000 sq.mt. It should 
have , on its plot, a minimum open space (unbuilt area ) of6,000 sq.mt. It should have 
at least 4 of the following facilities : 


• Indoor games ( e.g. Table – Tennis , Squash , Billiards , Bowling Alley, etc.). with 

a minimum built up area of 25 sq.mt. 
• Conference room (Minimum Carpet area of 30 sq.mt. ) 
• Swimming pool 
• Tennis or badminton court or golf or other outdoor games area . 
• A health club (minimum built-up area of 20 sq.mt.) 
• A lounge (admeasuring at least 35 sq.mt.) 


13 


6.14 .Health Farm : 


The Health Farm should be located in an area, which is free from pollution and 
noise , and have a generally salubrious and health -promoting environment. There 
should be at least 20 lettable rooms with attached bathrooms. It should have at least 
six of the following facilities : 


• Health Club 
Gymnasium 

Yoga /Meditation Area 
• Outdoor Exercise Areas 
• Indoor Games 
• Outdoor Games 
• Swimming Pool 
• Classroom 

Jogging Tracks 
• Horse Riding facility 


It should include a farm to grow fruits , vegetables , herbs , and grains 
(admeasuring at least 500 sq.mt. ). It should be located on a plot admeasuring at least 
5,000 sq.mt. It should have medical , paramedical personnel, alternative system of 
medicine specialist, diet specialist, and such other full time staff of at least two 


persons. 


6.15 . Motels and Wayside Amenities : 


а 


The Motel Project should be located on a National Highway, State Highway 
or Main District Road (MDR ). It should have at least 4 lettable rooms and all the 
lettable rooms should have attached bathrooms. The plot on which the motel is 
located should admeasure minimum of 1,500 sq.mt. It should have 
restaurant/dining hall with sitting area of minimum 30 sq.mt. (excluding kitchen & 
storage ). The double rooms and single rooms should have minimum carpet areas of 
12 sq.mt and 10 sq.mt respectively. The bathroom carpet area should admeasure at 
least 3 sqmt. It should have public toilet and first aid centre . It should have car 
parking area @ 5 sq.mt per room . The rooms should have adequate furniture, 
fixtures and linen . The ownership / lease of land and land use should be in order. 


Wayside amenities will be a common facility centre on the National 
Highways , State Highways , and Major District Roads . They should ideally have (a ) 
Food Plaza ; (b ) Public Convenience ; (c) ATM /Banking ; (d ) Emergency /Medical 
Facilities; (e ) Communication Centre ; (f) Petrol Filling Station and Auto Services. For 


14 


wayside amenities to be eligible for these incentives , they must have ( a ), (b ), (d ) and 
( e ) among the facilities mentioned above . 


6.16 .Water Sports : 


Water sports projects should be set up at a beach or lakeside or riverside 
along with a pontoon / jetty . It should offer at least two water sports . Parasailing, 
water -scooters , hovercraft and water- skiing are examples of such facilities . In 
addition to investment in boats and outboard motors , it should make an investment of 
at least Rs.20 lakh in water sports equipments. It should have adequate changing 
rooms, showers, lockers and separate toilet blocks for ladies and gents . It should 
have a restaurant. It should have trained staff for implementation of safety norms 
prescribed by the Government. 


6.17 . Houseboat: 


House boat should be set up at backwater, lakeside , reservoir , riverside 
location identified by Department of Tourism . It should offer at least one room facility, 
with on board restaurant in motorized boat, satisfying the safety norm prescribed by 
appropriate authorities . Houseboat project includes provision of jetty/ pontoon , 
parking , and off -shore infrastructure . It should have trained staff for implementation of 
safety norms prescribed by the Government of Odisha . 


6.18 . Art & Craft Village: 


The Art and Craft village project must be on a minimum one acre compact 
land with facilities like space to work for at least 10 artisans, an exhibition area of not 
less than 1000 sq.ft , to display different crafts, a multipurpose hall for folk shows, 
performing arts and film screening etc. A restaurant and toilet blocks should also be 
provided . 


6.19 . Golf Course : 


A Golf Course Project should have a minimum of 9 holes . The land area 
should not be less than 10 Hectares. The design and drainage should be so worked 
out that there is no water logging. There should be a reliable system for adequate 
water supply . It should have a satisfactory club house . It should allow easy access to 
tourists , who are not its members ; to play golf and use other facilities and the charges 
in this regard should be transparent and consistent. Adequate parking for at least 50 
vehicles and clean public toilet facility must be available . 


15 


6.20 . Camping and Tent Facilities : 

Camping and tent facilities should have clear ground admeasuring at least 
1,000sqmt. It should have tented accommodation capacity for at least 20 persons . 
There should be a minimum of 10 tents . The gross carpet area of tents should 
admeasure at least 200 sq.mt. All the tents should have attached toilets . The tents 
should be put on a platform raised to a minimum of 2.5 feet above the ground . The 
tent site should have adequate security . The site should have eco - friendly structures 
admeasuring at least 200 sq.mt. for such purposes as food , recreation , relaxation 
and lockers. It should have adequate electricity , water supply , sewerage disposal 
drainage and toilet facility . Space for own tents of tourists should also be available. 


6.21 . Amusement / Theme Park : 

An Amusement Park should have at least 8 amusement rides . There should 


be a minimum investment of Rs.50 lakh in amusement rides /aids . This pertains to the 
cost of equipment alone . It should have a minimum area of 20,000 sq.mt. 


6.22. Aquarium : 

An aquarium should have minimum 1,000 cubic meter water holding capacity 
and should have at least 10 exhibits . It should be open to public . It should have 
trained supervisors for operation and maintenance of the livestock. It should have 
restaurants, adequate parking, and separate toiletblocks for ladies and gents etc. 


6.23 .Water Park : 


A Water Park project should have minimum 5 acre compact land and minimum 
of five water sites. It should have the capacity to handle at least 100 slides 
simultaneously . It should have trained supervisors for implementation of safety 
norms. It should have restaurants and adequate changing rooms, lockers , showers 
and separate toilet blocks for ladies and gents among other. 


6.24 . Ropeway : 

The Ropeway should be mechanized and motor driven . The horizontal length 
may be 500 meters or more (but can be slightly less if the location demands so ). It 
should be comfortable for the passengers and noise should be within permissible 
limits. It should have capacity to carry minimum 200 passengers per hour. The cabins 
should leave at brief intervals so that transportation is continuous and waiting time is 
minimum . It should have thyristor control ofmain drive motor or comparable device to 
ensure smooth acceleration and deceleration . It should have an emergency brake in 


16 


addition to the normal brakes . The cabins should be sturdy and aesthetic . It should 
have full capacity generator set to drive the ropeway in case of power failure . The 
facilities should be created in compliance with the applicable security norms. 


6.25 . Heritage Hotel: 

A Heritage hotel should be a palace , a haveli, a darbar -grih of any building , 
built in a traditional style , prior to 1950. The façade , architectural features and 
general construction should have the distinctive qualities, ambience , and décor 
consistent with a traditional lifestyle . It should have minimum 10 lettable rooms. The 
facilities and the features along with the services should be as per the guidelines of 
the Department of Tourism , Government of India as applicable from time to time. 


6.26 . Convention Centre : 


A Convention Centre should be located on a plot admeasuring at least 5,000 
sqmt. It should have capacity to seat at least 750 persons in the central column less 
hall. The capacity should be so organized (partition -able ) that it is possible for at least 
5 separate conference events to run simultaneously .. At least 75 % of the convention 
centre s capacity should be air -conditioned . The Convention Centre should have 
sufficient parking facility (minimum 2 sq.mt per person ). All conference /convention 
areas should be equipped with state -of-the -art convention facilities including modern 
public address system , slide projection , video screening and such other facilities . It 
should possess its own equipments . It should have adequate arrangement for 
secretariat support with Fax , e -mail and photocopying facilities and first aid centre. It 
should have a restaurant, cafeteria with adequately covered ,comfortable area to 
cater to at least 500 persons simultaneously . The area excluding kitchen , should 
admeasure at least 500 sqmt. The quantum of such facilities should be consistent 
with the size of the complex . 


6.27 . Caravan Tourism : 

Caravan Tourism may be motorized /vehicle-based . It should have capacity to 
handle simultaneously at least 30 participants , if it is operated with the aid of 
motorized vehicles . It should operate for at least three months in a year. It should 
have operated for at least three months before seeking the approval of the DoT. 


6.28 . Adventure Tourism Projects : 


Adventure tourism projects should have required equipments and trained staff 
to maintain and run the activity. All required permissions from various authorities 
must be obtained. Minimum facilities like restaurant (wherever required), drinking 


17 


water supply , staying arrangements (wherever required ), toilet etc. should be 
provided . 


6.29 . Medical Tourism : 


Medical Tourism is a form of tourism , wherein medical institutions / hospitals 
shall be allowed concession under this policy to attract foreign tourists who may visit 

for treatment and avail post treatment tours to different tourist places. 
6.30 . Other Projects : 


Other projects not falling into any of the above categories will be considered as 
tourism project subject to their approval by the Tourism Advisory committee . 


7. INTERVENTIONS : 


7.1 . New investment: 


The Tourism Policy envisages the development of tourism infrastructure 
through collaboration between the government and the private sector. The Tourism 
Policy 2016 encourages private investment and provides attractive incentives for new 
investment in tourism sector. The implementation of various provisions covering 
incentives, concessions etc. will be based on the detailed operational guidelines / 
statutory notifications by the Department of Tourism (DoT). 


7.2 . Land Bank : 


The State Government with the objective of establishment and promotion of 
tourism has developed a robust land bank at key tourist locations throughout the 
State . Various parcels of land suitable for development of tourism projects and 
currently being held by General Administration (G.A.), Revenue, Odisha Industrial 
Infrastructure Development Corporation (IDCO ) & various other government 
agencies has been earmarked & reserved for tourism purpose . The land so reserved 
willbe allotted for tourism project as per IPR , 2015 rate as applicable . The Land Bank 


is meant to : 


optimize the latent potential of land available all across the State and use it 

for development of tourism infrastructure . 
• and facilitate investors to get land for tourism projects . 


18 


Though the DoT has developed a Land Bank , the efforts to identify more land shall 
be a continuous process . DoT / District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC ) shall prima 
facie identify lands / sites appropriate for tourism development through site visits , site 
studies and assessment of tourism development potential in the area . 


The identified land parcels shall be reserved in the form of a Land Bank for 
development of appropriate categories of tourism projects as identified by DoT . The 
details of the Land Bank for tourism projects would be made available on the websites of 
DoT and the concerned District Administration . 

The role of DoT shall be of a facilitator and would be the first point for receiving 
applications for development of Tourism Projects on the land identified through the Land 
Bank. On receipt of applications from private entrepreneurs , DoT shall facilitate the 
grounding of the tourism project. The disposal of the land / property shall be in accordance 
with the decision of the appropriate Committee to be formulated by the Department of 
Tourism . 
7.2.1 . Land Recommendation Committee : 

A Committee (Land Recommendation Committee ) shall be formed for allotment of 
land parcels from the Land Bank . The Land Recommendation Committee shall meet at 
least once in every three months and shall comprise – 
Chief Secretary , Odisha 

Chairman 
Secretary , Department of Tourism 

Member -Convenor 
Principal Secretary , Department of 
Revenue & Disaster Management 

Member 
Special Secretary , G.A. Department 

Member 
Concerned RDC 

Member 


CMD/MD , IDCO 


Member 


Collector of the concerned District 


Member 


Director, Department of Tourism 


Member 


DoT shall act as the secretariat for the Land Recommendation Committee . 


7.3. Human Resource Development / Capacity Building : 


This policy aims to streamline and strengthen the human resource development 
activities which include; capacity building programs, sensitization of stake holders in 
tourism industry and making available trained manpower for hospitality sector. This will 
involve - 


19 


Setting up of new Hotel Hospitality and Hotel Management institutes/Universities 
through private participation . 
Industrial Training Institutes /Polytechnics would be encouraged to introduce 
tourism related courses for subordinate staff of hotels / resorts / motels / lodges , 
caterers , guides , cab and tourist coach drivers to enhance skills . 
Institutions running management courses in the state will be encouraged to offer 
Hospitality and TravelManagement related courses . Institutions / NGOs carrying 
out sensitization programs related to tourism would be encouraged . 
Short term courses relating to capacity building for hospitality industries in rural 
area with support of State Institute of Rural Development. 


7.4 . Safety & Security : 


The DoT has established seven special Tourist Police Stations in the State in major 
tourist destination . Department of Tourism (DoT ) envisages ensuring safe tourism through 
setting up of more Police Stations, provision of dedicated police personnel atmajor tourist 
destinations, life - guards atbeaches in coordination with local NGOs and SHGs. It shall be 
the endeavor of the Government to pre -empt and prevent abuse/ exploitation of women 
and children in and around tourist destinations. For ensuring the safety and security of 
tourists visiting the tourism destinations across Odisha, the Tourism Policy , 2016 provides 
for the following measures . 


DoT shall take steps to employ personnel, preferably ex - servicemen , for provision 
of security to tourists in specific tourism destinations . DoT shall also provide appropriate 
training to the selected personnel for providing better services to tourists . 


DoT shall organize training and sensitization programs for policemen posted at key 
tourism destinations in association with the Department of Home for ensuring that 
policemen empathize with genuine complaints and grievances of tourists. In order to 
prevent exploitation of women and minors in any form , DoT, in conjunction with the local 
police administration , shall take proactive steps to prevent such abuses . 


7.5 . 


Clean Tourism Sites Campaign . 


As a part of Clean India Campaign , the Tourism Department shall endeavor to 
launch special drive for making the tourist destination clean . The Tourism Department 
shall set up a beach cleaning authority comprising prominent persons having experience in 
the field . The Tourism Department shall involve different tourism stakeholder to take 
forward this initiatives. Special sensitization programme including awareness programme 


20 


through electronic media shall be launched for this purpose . The Department of Tourism 
has started mechanized cleaning in Puri Sea Beach . Similar cleaning operations shall be 
made in all the Sea Beaches like Gopalpur, Talsari , Chandrabhaga , Ramachandi, 
Chandipur & other important tourism sites. The beaches in the State of Odisha are famous 
for their beauty and efforts shall bemade to keep them clean and beautiful for the tourist. 


7.6 . 


Odisha Tourism Development Corporation (OTDC ) 


The Odisha Tourism Development Corporation shall be modernised and 
strengthened to make it a more effective tool for promotion of tourism . 
To develop and promote Odisha as one of the premier destination of the 
country and to adopt such methods and devices necessary to attract tourists in 
large numbers. 


To provide / operate quality tourism infrastructure on its own or through 
appropriate PPP structures . 


. 


To act as facilitator for development of tourism in the State . 
Continue with the existing properties with improved facilities , services and value 
addition , 


Promoting star category hotels and other facility as green field project through 

private participation . 
• Marketing of lesser known tourist destination to bring it to the lime light through 

package tours and providing basic amenities. 
Providing a total travel solution to the tourists visiting the State . 
Selective privatization of the existing Units for profit optimization . 
Promoting Odisha as a favoured destination in general and OTDC hotels as 
favoured host amongst the tourist through extensive marketing, value addition , 

quality infrastructure and improved services . 
7.7 . Tourism Units to avail incentives / subsidy : 

A new Tourism Unit should be opened to all and shall not be confined to exclusive 
use ofmembers of any group or club or any such other restrictions . 


A new tourism unit or an expansion of an existing tourism unit will be eligible for 
incentives provided they satisfy the following conditions : 


The new unit should obtain registration with the concerned registering authority 
to be detailed by the DoT. 


21 


The new project should have separately identifiable capital investment and 
should not be an extension of the existing project. The new project will not lose 
its eligibility , if the utilities of existing units for water, electricity , steam , pollution 
control, central facilities etc. are extended to the new projects . Expansion of 
existing project will be eligible for incentives, provided the existing tourism unit 
increases its investments in fixed capital or capacity by at least 50 % as 

elaborated in Para . 6.4 . 
The existing tourism properties to be developed on PPP mode will be eligible for 
fiscal incentives provided , the private partner fulfill the minimum development plan 
prescribed in the Lease -cum - Development Agreement and the property is further 
augmented through investment in fixed capital or capacity by at least 50 % of the existing 
capacity + prescribed minimum development plan . 


7.8 . Tourism Undertaking : 


Tourism Undertaking means a legal entity in the form of a registered company under 
the Companies Act , 1956 , a Partnership firm , a Registered Trust , a legally registered Co 
operative society or an individual proprietary firm engaged or to be engaged in one or 
more tourism projects . The proposed tourism facility should be open to all and shall not be 
confined to the exclusive use of members of any group or club or any such other 


restrictions . 


7.9 . Eligible Capital Investment for incentives : 


The following investment shall be considered eligible for incentives : 


Payment made towards registration charges of land . 
• Building constructed for providing specific tourism facilities/services . The actual 

expenditure incurred and paid for construction of building as per the norms will 
only be considered . 
Other construction such as boundary wall, landscaping and any other project 
specific construction . 


Plant and machinery 
Interior furnishing 
Electrical installation / renewable energy installation 
Furniture and fixtures 
Kitchen equipments 
Sewage Treatment Plant (STP ) 
Generator and Air Condition plant / AC unit 


22 


7.10 . Ineligible Capital Investment : 


The following investment shall not be eligible for incentive : 


Cost of land 
• Working capital 

Goodwill 
Commissioning fees 

Royalty 
• Pre - operative expenses 

Second hand plant and machinery , furniture fixtures , electrical installation etc. 
Interest capitalized 
Trucks , cars , vans , trailers and other transport vehicles 
Consumables , crockery and utensils , bed linen 
Technical/Consultant fees 
Any construction which is nature of real estate development i.e. shops , flats , 
offices etc. meant for sale / lease / rent. 


. 


7.11. Eligible Units (Tourism Projects ) for availing incentives : 


0 


Hotels of star categories 

Apartment hotels 
• Heritage hotels , resorts , health farms and health & wellness spa . 

Motels , wayside amenities and public amenities at tourist sites , 
Theme based entertainment centre , Amusement park , Aquarium , Aqua Park , 
Multiplexes (Cinema halls ) of at least three (3 ) screens 
Adventure sports , beach sports and water sports , 
Art and craft Villages , Craft and souvenir shops at tourist sites excluding 
manufacturing, development of souvenirs and artisan hubs 

Golf courses 
• Camping, Caravan , Tents and other temporary accommodation facilities 

developed for tourism purposes 
• Aerial Ropeways 

Convention centers , 
Adventure Tourism projects 
Cruise boats , Houseboats 
Eco - Tourism projects / Cruise Tourism projects /Wellness Tourism projects 
Adventure Tourism projects / Knowledge Tourism projects / Buddhist Tourism 
projects / Heritage Tourism projects 
Wildlife safari 
Film city 
Medical tourism (only the Joint Commission International ( JCI) accredited 
Hospital) 
Exclusive Tourism & Hospitality related Institute / universities 
Other Projects approved by the Department of Tourism , Government of Odisha 
or Ministry of Tourism , Government of India . 


23 


8. FRAMEWORK FOR INCENTIVES AND OTHER SUPPORT MEASURES FOR 

TOURISM PROJECTS : 


To attract private sector investment, it is envisaged to offer both financial & non 
financial incentives to different tourism projects . 


8.1 . Financial Incentives : 


8.1.1. Allotment of land : 

Land is the most important ingredient in setting up of a tourism unit. The land for 
tourism units will be allotted at concessional rates as per the provision of IPR , 2015 or as 
per the guidelines to be fixed by the Government from time to time. 


8.1.2 . Capital Investment Subsidy : 


To encourage investment in tourism infrastructure and tourism projects , investment 
subsidy is envisaged for new Tourism Projects . All eligible tourism projects as per Para . 
7.11 with investment not below Rs.20 lakh shall be eligible to get capital investment 
subsidy . The capital investment subsidy is envisaged as follows: 


( a ) Quantum of Capital Investment subsidy 
Eligible Capital Investment 

Admissible 
( excluding the land cost) 

Subsidy 
Investment upto Rs.50 crore 

20 % 


Maximum 

Limit 
Rs.10.00 
Crore 
Rs. 15.00 
Crore 
Rs.0.15 Crore 


Investment above Rs.50 crore 


20 % 


30 % 


Tented accommodation 

(with 
minimum investment of Rs.0.20 
crore ) 
Equipment worth Rs.1 crore and 
above for Adventure & Water 

Sports 
• As percentage of Eligible Capital Investment 


20 % 


Rs.0.50 Crore 


( b ) Additional Subsidy of 5 % will be provided to following projects : 
(i) New Tourism Projects around Chilika lake , KBK , Kandhamala and Gajapati 

District and any new places or districts as may be necessary to be notified by 
the Government from time to time on the recommendation of Tourism Advisory 
Committee . Considering the influence zone of Chilika , the exact location / 
distance from higher water level of the Chilika lake within which tourism 

projects would be considered for incentives will be decided by the TAC . 
(ii) New Tourism Projects owned and managed by women entrepreneurs (with 

minimum equity participation of 51 % in the entity ), those belonging to SC /ST 


24 


categories and the differently -abled will be entitled to an additional 5 % subsidy 

over and above the Admissible Subsidy . 
(iii) In all the above mentioned cases , the total subsidy available shall be subject 

to the ceiling prescribed under Maximum Limit mentioned in Para . 8.1.2 ( a ). 
( iv ) The eligible units after one year of commencement of commercial operations 

of the project will be eligible for availing capital investment subsidy . 
8.1.3 . Interest subsidy : 

All new eligible tourism units as per Clause 7.9 , 7.11 shall be eligible to get interest 
subsidy as per the following rates for a period not more than 5 years provided the 
concerned promoter (s ) shall not have defaulted to Odisha State Financial Corporation 
(OSFC )/ Industrial Investment Promotion Corporation of Orissa Limited ( IPICOL ) / SIDBI / 
banks / public financial institutions / other Government Agencies in payment of interest & 
installment in connection with any other commercial venture with which the concerned 
promoter is directly or indirectly associated . 


Interest subsidy @ 5 % per annum subject to maximum of Rs.1 crore for the entire 
period of 5 years. This subsidy will be available to eligible tourism units after one year from 
date of commencement of commercial operations of the tourism unit maximum up to five 


years . 


8.1.4 . Stamp Duty exemption : 

All new Tourism Units shall be eligible to get 100 % exemption in Stamp Duty on 
purchase of land for the project. Such reimbursement shall be made after commercial 
operation of the project. 


8.1.5 . Reimbursement of land conversion charges : 

All tourism new projects shall be eligible to get 100 % reimbursement of the land 
conversion charges . Such reimbursement shall be made after commercial operation of the 
project. 


8.1.6 . Reimbursement of VAT: 


New tourism projects shall be eligible for reimbursement of 100 % of VAT paid for a 
period of 7 years from the date of commercial operation limited to 200 % of cost of plant & 
machinery / 100 % of the project cost whichever is low in a tapered manner provided that 
the VAT reimbursement shall be applicable only to the net tax paid after adjustment of 
Input Tax credit . This provision will be suitably replaced / modified after Goods & Service 


Tax is introduced . 


25 


8.1.7 . Reimbursement of Entertainment Tax : 

New Multiplex Cinema halls of at least three ( 3) screens with a minimum capital 
investment of Rs. 3 crore , with modern projection system , sound system , air conditioning 
etc., will be reimbursed 100 % Entertainment Tax for a period of five (5 ) years. Similar 
benefits shall be extended to other eligible tourism projects like Public Aquarium , Aqua 
Park , Amusement Park etc. 
8.1.8 . Energy : 


New Tourism Units will be exempted from payment of electricity duty up to a 
contract demand of 5 MVA for a period of 5 years from the date of availing power supply 
for production . To encourage energy efficiency , a onetime reimbursement of cost of 
energy audit of the new unit shall be provided up to a maximum of Rs.1.00 lakh subject to 
achieving energy efficiency to be certified by credible third party agency . 
8.1.9 . Reimbursement of Entry Tax : 


New Tourism Units shall be eligible for 100 % reimbursement of entry tax on 
acquisition of plant & machinery till the date of commercial operation . New tourism units 
shall also be eligible for 100 % reimbursement of entry tax on purchase of raw material for 
a period of 5 years from the date of commercial operation subject to a maximum ceiling of 
100 % of cost of plant & machinery . This provision will be suitably replaced / modified after 
GST is introduced and implemented . 
8.1.10 . Employment cost subsidy : 


75 % reimbursement (in case of male worker) & 100 % reimbursement (in case of 
female workers) of expenditure on account of employer contribution towards ESI & EPF 
scheme for a period of 5 years shall be made in respect of skilled & semi-skilled workers 
engaged as regular employees who are domicile of the State . 
8.1.11. Environmental protection infrastructure subsidy : 


New tourism units shall be eligible for reimbursement of 20 % of the capital cost of 
setting up effluent treatment plant / sewerage treatment plant subject to a maximum of 
Rs. 20 lakh . Such reimbursement shall be made only after commercial operation of the 
project. 
8.1.12 . Training Subsidy: 


For every person trained & newly recruited in tourism project, the training cost shall 
be reimbursed @ Rs.2000 /- per employee provided such training is imparted within 3 
years of the commercial operation . 


26 


8.1.13 . Tourist Transport : 


The State will facilitate the provision of adequate quality transport services for 
tourists . As such 75 % exemption from registration charges and 50 % concession from 
payment of permit charges shall be allowed for new air -conditioned coaches having 
minimum seating capacity of 25 seats , registered as contract carriage and operating in 
notified tourist circuits . The Department of Tourism shall notify the tourist circuits for the 
purpose from time to time. 
8.1.14 . Participation in overseas Tourism Events : 

DoT shall provide incentives to the tourism service provider of State for participating 
in overseas tourism events . The incentive shall be limited to 50 % of the space rent 
actually paid and travel expenses incurred by the tourism service provider of the State 
subject to maximum of Rs.75,000 / - for each event. Such concession shall be limited to two 
events in one financial year for any agency . The tourism service provider approved by 
Govt . of India, Ministry of Tourism fulfilling the eligibility criteria prescribed by Ministry shall 
be eligible to get additional reimbursement of travel expenses of 4 more additional events . 
The admissibility of travel expenses shall be as per the guideline of Ministry of Tourism , 
Government of India and themaximum ceiling shall be Rs.2.5 lakh per annum . 
8.1.15 . Film shooting subsidy : 

To encourage shooting of feature films in important tourist locations and thereby 
highlighting different tourist destinations of the States, incentive will be allowed for 
shooting of feature film in the State of Odisha . As such 75 % of the actual expenditure 
incurred on accommodation in hotels of Odisha during such shooting shall be reimbursed 
subject to a ceiling of 10 lakh . This incentive shall only be allowed to film which is 
approved by Central Board of Film Certification ( CBFC ). 
8.1.16 . Kiosk in important tourist centers : 

Tourism Department will create Kiosk in important tourist centers for sale of 
souvenir, handicraft items, tea stall & other utility shops and allot them to unemployed 
youth of the locality including the existing unorganized vendors at concessional rent / fee . 
Tourism Department will bring out detail allotment procedure & guideline of such Kiosk by 
way of Notification . 
8.1.17 . Subsidy is envisaged in the policy as a means of incentives to encourage private 
investment in tourism sector. While extending incentives , subsidies & concessions , the 
total financial incentives for any tourism unit shall not exceed the eligible capital 
investment in the projects (as defined in Para. 7.9 of the Tourism Policy) . 


27 


8.2 . Special Tourism Zone : 


Many regions of the state have huge tourism potential . To have more focused 
intervention , it is proposed that the state tourism promotion council will identify and notify 
such regions as Special Tourism Zones . The state government shall develop quality 
infrastructure like roads , sanitation , power supply and water supply through convergence 
of resources in the special tourism zone . The state tourism promotion council may allow 
separate incentives in the identified zone for specific time period . 
8.3. Non - financial Incentive : 

In addition to fiscal incentives , new tourism units will benefit from a number of other 
support mechanisms of the Government. 

• Tourism department will provide facilitation in obtaining various permissions and 

clearances required from statutory bodies like CRZ , Municipal/local bodies , 
Airports , Pollution Control Board , etc. on best effort basis . 
The Department will make use of the provisions of Single Window , Escort Officer , 
etc. to fast-track the clearance of tourism projects . 
The Government will assist in promotion of private tourism projects at the 
national and international level. For this purpose opportunities to participate in 
Road shows and Trade Fairs , link from Government websites, partnership for 
hosting events and activities etc. by designing suitable modalities would be 

provided . 
• Facilitating online reservation of hotels / vehicles/ tour packages of the State 

tourism stakeholders . 
Non -financial performance oriented incentives to tour operators , guides, taxi and 

auto drivers by way of familiarization tour, training etc. 
9. ADMINISTRATION OF INCENTIVES : 


9.1. Procedure for applying for incentives : 

Department of Tourism , Government of Odisha shall be the Implementing Agency for 
administration of incentives under this Tourism Policy . Detailed operational guidelines shall 
be issued by the Tourism Department. 

All Tourism Units undertakings desirous of availing any incentive under this policy 
must be registered with the Department of Tourism . The projects will be scrutinized by 
Tourism Department and after scrutiny; provisional registration shall be issued adopting 
the following procedure : 

Tourism Department shall give Provisional Registration Certificate in the first 
instance up to 3 years to the Eligible Units . 


28 


If such a unit is not in a position to complete the project and start commercial 
operations during the initial validity period , it may apply for time extension along 
with its progress report. The administrative departmentmay , after examining the 
difficulties experienced by the individual unit in implementing the project and also 

recording the reasons , grant extension for a period up to 2 years. 
• The units which are unable to go operational after the time extension will have to 

explain to the Government the reasons for the delay . This explanation will have to 
be forwarded by the District Tourist Officer to the Commissioner / Director of 
Tourism , who will carry out physical inspection of the projects and report to the 
tourism advisory committee . The committee will then take a decision on further 
time extension based on this report and recommend its views to the Government 

for taking necessary steps . 
9.2 . Illustrative procedure for claiming incentives : 

The Eligible units along with the provisional Certificate shall apply to DoT, within 180 
days after the commencement of commercial operation of the project, for permissible 
benefits along with necessary documents. Department of Tourism on receiving the 
information and documents will scrutinize it and issue Eligibility Certificate and the 
Certificate of Entitlement and put proper date of effect so as to enable the unit to avail the 
incentives . 
Step -1 Step - IV 

Step - VII 
Eligible Units will apply If a unit is not in a position Tourism Department shall 
for the incentive to 

to complete the project scrutinize the documents 
Department of Tourism during 3 years , it may 

and after field visit issue 
apply for extension . 

Eligibility Certificate , if 

eligible . 
Step -11 Step - V 

Step - VIII 
DoT will scrutinize the 

If agreed, Tourism 

Based on the Eligibility 
applications and issue a departmentmay grant an Certificate , the Department 
Provisional Registration extension , (maximum upto of Tourism shall in turn 
Certificate (PRC ) 2 years ). Further time 

issue Certificate of 
extension by Tourism Entitlement and put proper 
Advisory Committee . date of effect for availing 

benefits . 


Step - 111 
PRC shall be valid for 
up to 3 years in the first 

instance 


Step - VI 
The Eligible Units shall 

inform Tourism 
Department within 180 

days of the 
commencement of 
commercial operation of 

the project 


29 


The unit shall remain in commercial operation continuously for a minimum of 5 
years from the date on which benefits have been availed . In cases , where the operation 
has been discontinued due to any reason within the period of 5 years mentioned above , 
the unit shall be required to refund the incentives along with interest @ of 2 % permonth or 
any other penal interest prescribed by the DoT. 


The unit , after getting the eligibility Certificate, must submit quarterly progress details 
to the DoT of the incentives availed during the eligibility period . Any excess claim of 
incentives will be recovered with interest of 2 % per month or any other penal interest 
prescribed by the DoT. 


10. INSTITUTIONAL MECHANISM FOR TOURISM DEVELOPMENT: 


10.1 . State Tourism Promotion Council : 


The State Tourism Promotion Council (STPC ) will be constituted , as follows to act as 
the Apex Body to guide and monitor the development of Tourism in the State . 


Chief Minister 


Chairman 


Minister of Tourism 


Member 


Minister of Forest & Environment 


Member 


Minister of Transport 


Member 


Chief Secretary of Odisha 


Member 


Development Commissioner 


Member 


Secretary , Home 


Member 


Secretary , Finance 


Member 


Secretary (Tourism ) 


Member- Convenor 


Member 


Member 


Member 


Member 


Secretary (Forest & Environment) 
Secretary (Transport ) 
Secretary , Handloom & Handicrafts 
General Managers of Railway Divisions covering Odisha 
Senior representative from FICCI 
Senior representative from Cli 
Representative from Airport Authority of India 
Representative from 2 major airlines operating in the 
State (nominated by the Secretary , Tourism ) 


Member 


Member 


Member 


Member 


30 


Representative from IATA / HRAO 


Member 


Representative from IATOI TAAI 


Member 


Member 


Two leading hoteliers (nominated by the Secretary , 
Tourism ) 


Representative of ASI 


Member 


Director, Department of Tourism 


Member 


The nominated members shall have a maximum tenure of 3 years unless renewed 
by the Secretary , Tourism . The STPC shall meet at least once in 12 months. The State 
Tourism Promotion Council will review & monitor, the implementation of the Policy and 
suggest changes in the policy frame work . 


10.2 . Tourism Advisory Committee : 

A Tourism Advisory Committee (TAC ) shall be formed for facilitating development of 
tourism in the state . The Tourism Advisory Committee would be headed by the Chief 
Secretary , Government of Odisha and will have the role of advising the State Tourism 
Promotion Council on policy matters , strategy for development of tourism in the State , 
inter-departmental coordination , recommendations etc. 


The Tourism Advisory Committee will have following members . 
1 . Chief Secretary 

Chairman 
2. Development Commissioner 

Member 
3. Secretary (Home) 

Member 
4. Secretary ( Tourism ) 

Member Convenor 
5. Secretary (Revenue) 

Member 
6. Secretary (Finance ) 

Member 
7. Secretary (Forest & Environment) 

Member 
8 . PCCF (Wildlife ) 

Member 
9 . Director ( Tourism ) 

Member 
10. Managing Director (OTDC ) 

Member 
11. Representatives of other departments, agencies and organisations to be 

nominated by the Government from time to time. 
10.3 . Single Window Clearance Authority : 

There shall be a 3 -tier Single Window Clearance Authority (SWCA) for clearance of 
private sector tourism projects as enumerated below — 

Investment upto Rs. 50 crore Special Single Window Clearance Committee 
( SSWCC ) shall be constituted under the chairmanship of Secretary, Tourism ; 
Govt. of Odisha .. 


O 


31 


Investments above Rs.50 crore and up to Rs.1000 crore – State Level Single 
Window Clearance Authority (SLSWCA ) members as constituted under the 
Odisha Industries Facilitation Act, (OIFA ) 2004 . 
Investment above Rs 1,000 crore High Level Clearance Authority (HLCA ) 
headed by the Chief Minister with members as constituted under the Odisha 

Industries Facilitation Act, (OIFA) 2004 . 

DoT will provide secretarial assistance to the SLSWCA. The SLSWCA shall have 
the power to direct concerned departments or authorities to issue required clearances 
within the specified time limit , subject to compliance of the provisions of the applicable 


Acts and rules or orders and instructions in force . 


The SSWCC I SLSWCA shall carry out the following functions : 


Issue approvals of projects as required under the appropriate rules as and when 


necessary . 


Issue deemed approvals as provided in OIFA as and when necessary. 
Review and monitor the processing of applications cleared earlier and sent to 

Competent Authorities . 

A Nodal Officer would be appointed / designated from DoT, to support the SLSWCC 
and liaise with the District Level Nodal Agencies (DLNA) under the OIFA Act. The Nodal 
Officer would receive all applications forwarded from IPICOL / the DICs ( if the DICs have 
been approached ). These would be put up by the Nodal Officer before SSWCC for 
approval. 


10.4.District Tourism Promotion Council : 


Every district will have a District Tourism Promotion Councils (DTPC ). It shall act in 
close coordination with Department of Tourism . Its main functions shall be - 


0 


• Identify land parcels for tourism development in the district. 

To act as the nodal agency and clearing house for ideas and information related 
to tourism at the district & sub -district level. 
Facilitate convergence of resources of various agencies for the development of 

tourism infrastructure . 
• Development and updation of tourism information for districts which may also be 

uploaded in the district websites . 


32 


Promote the development of tourism master plans for each district in coordination 
with other government agencies . 
Skill profiling of local population to create lists for guides , freelancers , 
photographers, home-stay addresses and develop a tourism service provider 
database and clear awareness among the general public on tourism related 


matters . 


Contribute to the publicity and promotional material of DoT and 
encourage /facilitate travel writers , media for publicizing places of tourist interest 


of the district. 


Prepare the event list at the district level for tourism purposes. 
Organize and facilitate training programs for the benefit of stakeholders in the 
tourism industry on chargeable basis 
Facilitate the formation of local tourism destination development bodies with local 
community participation for development of tourism assets . 
Identify , develop and lease out land for parking and other tourist services where 
user charges can be a source of revenue . 

Facilitate and support the development of eco - tourism societies. 
• Develop economically viable Tourism Projects . 

Licensing , regulation and accreditation of tourism ventures as per DoT guidelines 
Mobilize and enlist the local community stakeholders for specific areas / tourism 

destinations as per requirement. 

The Revenue Divisional Commissioner shall be the Patron and the District Collector 
shall be the Chairman of DTPC The DTPC shall have an Executive Body which shall be 
responsible for the daily business & affairs of the Council. The terms and conditions shall 
be notified separately by the Government. 


10.5 . Executive Body of DTPC : 

The Executive Body shall carry out the business and affairs of the DTPC . The 
Executive Body will meet at least once in a month . It shall have a tenure of 3 years or as 
decided by the Government. The Tourist Officer for the District shall be the Secretary to 
DTPC and shall carry out the functions including convening of meetings , documentation , 
and other duties as determined by the Executive Body . 


District Collector 
Divisional Forest Officer (DFO ) 
Project Director, DRDA 


Chairman 
Member 
Member 


33 


Representative of the concerned Municipal Corporation (where Member 
applicable ) 
Superintendent of Police 

Member 
Representative from Commissionrate of Police (Bhubaneswar Member 
Cuttack ) 
Representative of Handicrafts & Handloom 

Member 
Chairman of Zilla Parishad /Municipalities /N.A.C . in district Member 
LocalMPs / MLAs 

Member 
Executive Engineer PWD (R & B ) 

Member 
Executive Engineer from Rural Development Department (Local Member 
works) 
District Planning Officer 

Member 
Executive Engineer (RWS& S ) 

Member 
President, District Hotel Association 

Member 
President, District Travel Agent Association 

Member 
Any other member or members nominated by the Chairman who Member 
would be helpful in realizing the objectives of the body 
OTDC nominee 

Member 
Tourist Officer for the District 

Member Secretary 
10.6 . Local Tourism Promotion Council : 

This Policy proposes the formation of Local Tourism Promotion Councils (LTPC in 
few important tourist centres for carrying out functions such as 


• Identify land parcels for tourism development in the locality 

Skill profiling of local population to create lists of guides , freelancers , 
photographers, home-stay addresses and develop a tourism service provider 
database 


Contribute to the publicity and promotionalmaterial of DTPC 
• Administering operation & management of tourist facilities created by the 

Government. 


Implementation of tourism events if any 
Facilitate the formation of local tourism destination development bodies with local 

community participation for development of tourism assets . 
• Identify , develop and lease out land for parking and other tourist services where 

user charges can be a source of revenue . 
Facilitate and support the development of eco -tourism societies 
Mobilize and enlist the local community stakeholders for specific areas / tourism 
destinations as per requirement 


34 


Sensitize the local community about the importance of the tourism and to become 
more tourist friendly 

The LTPC shall consist of an Executive Body, the District Collector shall be the 
Patron and the Block Development Officer shall be the Chairman . The Executive Body 
shall be the body responsible for the daily business & affairs of the LTPC . The terms and 
conditions shall be notified separately by the Government. The details of the constitution of 
the LTPC are as given below : 
Block Development Officer 

Chairman 


Jr. Engineer ( Block ) 


Member 


Member 


Sarapanch of concerned G.P. / Representative of the concerned 
Municipal Corporation (where applicable ) 


0.1.C. of concerned P.S. 


Member 


President, Local Hotel Association 


Member 


President, Local Travel Agent Association 


Member 


Member 


Any other member or members nominated by the Chairman who 
would be helpful in realizing the objectives of the body 


OTDC nominee 


Member 


Tourist Officer for the District 


Member Secretary 


10.7 . Miscellaneous : 


A. The Tourism Policy , 2016 shall be co -terminus with IPR , 2015. The State 

Governmentmay at any time amend any provision of the policy . 
B. Doubts relating to interpretation of any term and / or dispute relating to operation of 

any provision under this policy shall have to be referred to the Tourism Department 
for clarification / resolution and the decision of the Government in this regard shall 

be final & binding on all concerned . 
C. Implementation of various provision covering the subsidy, incentives, concessions 

etc. will be subject to issue of detail guidelines / statutory notifications by the DoT 
within one month from the date of issue of this policy . 


Printed and published by the Director, Printing , Stationery and Publication , Odisha, Cuttack - 10 

Ex. Gaz . 1584-173 + 300 


