Reg . No.GR /RNP/GOA/32 


RNI No. GOAENG /2002 /6410 


Panaji, 6th May , 2010 (Vaisakha 16 , 1932 ) 


SERIES I No. 6 


भदाण पश्यन्तु मा काम 
थान 


OFFICIAL 


GOA 


1111119 


VERNMENT 


GAZETTE 


GOVERNMENT OF GOA 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


NOTE 


There are two Extraordinary issues to the Official Gazette , Series I No. 5 dated 29-4-2010 , as follows: 

( 1) Extraordinary dated 29-4-2010 from pages 157 to 160 regarding The Goa Municipalities (Amendment ) Act, 2010 
and The Goa Animal Preservation (Amendment) Act, 2010 . 

(2 ) Extraordinary (No. 2 ) dated 4-5-2010 from pages 161 to 162 regarding Amendments to Schedule B and C and 
Enhancement of rate of tax to Schedule B . 


INDEX 


Department 


Corrigendum /Notification /Order 


Subject 


Pages 


1 / 1 / 2008 - Fin (R & C ) Part 


Rectification of the words. 


163 


1. Finance 

Revenue & Control Division 
Under Secretary 


DI/ INF /FILMS- SCH / 2010 /529 Goa Scheme of Financial Assistance for Films 2010 . 


164 


2. Information & Publicity 

Director & ex officio Joint 
Secretary 


D - 12018 /6 / 2287 


The Goa Ports (Amendment ) Rules , 2010 . 


175 


3. Inland Waterways 

Captain of Ports 
Captain of Ports & ex officio 
Joint Secretary 


47 / 12 /2010 -I /PHD 


Implementation ofMaternal Death Audit Scheme. 


178 


4. Public Health 

Joint Secretary 


16-11-2009/RD (Part ) 


178 


5. Revenue 

Under Secretary 


Draft Rules – The Goa Land Revenue (Record of Rights 
and Register of Cultivators ) (Amendment ) Rules , 
2010 . 


GOVERNMENT OF GOA 


Department of Finance 


published in the Official Gazette , 
Extraordinary , Series I No. 1 dated 1st April , 
2010 , in clause (II), in sub -clause (B ), the 
words " per annum " wherever they occur 
shall be omitted . 


Revenue & Control Division 


Corrigendum 


By order and in the name of the 

Governor of Goa . 


1 / 1 / 2008 - Fin (R & C ) Part 


Surendra F. Naik , Under Secretary 
Fin ( R & C ) . 


In the Government Notification No. 1 / 1 / 
/ 2008 - Fin ( R & C ) Part dated 31st March , 2010 , 


Porvorim , 30th April , 2010 . 


163 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE — GOVT. OF GOA 


SERIES I No. 6 


6TH MAY, 2010 


Department of Information and Publicity 


to boost the image of the State of Goa in the 
film world . 


Notification 


DI/ INF / FILMS- SCH / 2010 /529 


Goa Scheme of Financial Assistance for 

Films- 2010 


( ii ) The scheme envisages grant of financial 
assistance upto 50 % of the cost of production 
of a film or as per the relevant provisions 
made in Schedule I hereto , whichever is less . 
However, a Film Producer shall not be entitled 
to claim assistance under the scheme on more 
than one occasion , within two consecutive 
years in any film / video category either as a 
single Film Producer or Co - Film Producer. 


The Government of Goa hereby notifies the 
scheme to provide financial assistance for 
production of film originating in Goa , as 
follows : 


A. Title, applicability and duration.— (i) 
The scheme shall be called the Goa Scheme 
of Financial Assistance for Films 2010 ( for the 
production of feature films in Konkani and 
Marathi and non - feature films including Tele 
films, Short films and Documentaries in 
Konkani, Marathi, English and Hindi). The 
scheme shall be implemented through the 
Entertainment Society of Goa . 


( iii) The Entertainment Society of Goa 
shall make necessary budget provision for 
disbursement of financial aid to the registered 
Film Producers wishing to avail of the 
financial help from the society for producing 
Feature films in Konkani or Marathi and Non 
-Feature films including Tele - films, Short films 
& documentaries in Konkani, Marathi, English 
and Hindi in Goa as per Schedule I , hereto . 
The funds for the scheme shall be provided 
as Grants - in - aid to the Entertainment Society 
of Goa by the Department of Information and 
Publicity, Government of Goa 


(ii) The scheme shall apply to films 
originating and produced in Goa by Film 
Producers who have to be registered with 
the Entertainment Society of Goa on payment 
of Registration fee of Rs. 1000. Film Producers 
already registered with Directorate of 
Information and Publicity under the earlier 
scheme are eligible provided they satisfy the 
conditions laid down in the present scheme. 


( iv ) The Film Producers making Feature 
films or Non - Feature films in more than one 
of the approved languages as above 
(bilingual) simultaneously shall be able to 
claim financial assistance for only one of the 
languages , subject to the condition that the 
film under consideration is original and not a 
dubbed copy . 


C. Definitions. In the scheme, unless the 
context, otherwise refers, 


( iii ) It shall be operative annually ( 1st April 
to 31st March ) and shall remain in force till 
31st March , 2013 , after which it may be 
reviewed or redesigned as the need may be . 
However , the Government of Goa or the 
Entertainment Society of Goa reserves the 
right to change any or all provisions of this 
scheme if found necessary in public interest . 
The scheme to be announced in the month 
of April every year . 


( i) " Society " means the Entertainment 
Society of Goa . 


( ii ) " Financial Assistance " means financial 
assistance given by the society to films, 
financed under this scheme. 


B. Aims and Objectives of the Scheme.— (i) 
To regulate grant of financial assistance to 
Goan film makers with a view to encourage 
production of quality celluloid as well as 
Telefilms, Short films, Documentaries , etc. and 


( iii) " Scheme" means the Scheme specially 
formulated by the Government for giving 
financial assistance for production of Feature 
films in Konkani and Marathi and Non - Feature 
films including Tele - films, Short films and 


164 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE — GOVT. OF GOA 


SERIES I No. 6 


6TH MAY, 2010 


Documentaries in Konkani, Marathi, English 
and Hindi. 


( xiii) " 35 mm " film means the photographic 
film which is cut into strips 35 millimeters 
wide, with six perforations per inch ( 25.4 mm ) 
along both edges . 


( iv ) “ Film Producer ” means a person who 
produces the film and has entire rights of the 
said film . 


(v ) “ Artists ” means and includes Actors , 
Actresses , Screenplay Writers , Lyric Writers , 
Cameramen , Asst. Cameramen , Production 
Assistants , Art Directors and all other 
technical and non -technical staff associated 
with the film production . 


( xiv ) " Dolby Digital" means digital audio 
encoding system from Dolby used in movie 
and home theaters . Dolby Digital employs 
Dolby s AC - 3 (Audio Coding - 3 ) coding and 
compression technology and provides six 
channels of audio , known as 5.1 for front left, 
front right, front center, rear left, rear right 
and subwoofer. 


(vi) " Film Director” means a person 
directing the film . 


(xv ) " 16 mm " film means the photographic 
film which is cut into strips 16 millimeters 
wide , with 40 frames per foot and one 
perforation for each frame. 


(vii ) " Story Writer " means a person writing 
the story for the film . 


(xvi) Beta cam SP : metal formulated tapes 
of 1 / 2 - inch with 340 lines of horizontal 
resolution . 


(viii ) " Screening Committee " means a 
Committee duly constituted by the 
Entertainment Society of Goa to evaluate the 
standard of the scripts and authenticity of 
the proposals submitted by the Film 
Producers . 


( xvii ) Digi- Beta means a format that records 
a DCT-compressed component video signal 
at 10 -bit YUV 4 : 2 : 2 sampling in NTSC 
(720x486 ) or PAL ( 720x576 ) resolutions at a 
bitrate of 90 Mbit / s plus four channels of 
uncompressed 48 kHz / 20 bit PCM - encoded 
audio . 


(ix ) " Finance Committee " means a 
Committee duly constituted by the 
Entertainment Society of Goa to look into 
the financial aspects of the film production 
and to make recommendations to the 
Entertainment Society of Goa on the quantum 
of financial help to be released after perusing 
the assessment reports submitted by the 
Screening Committee . 


(xviii) " HD " means a 24 frames-per - second 
digital video format for high - resolution 
capture of motion pictures in progressive 
scanning mode . It refers to any video system 
of higher resolution than standard -definition 
and involves display resolutions of 3840x2160 
resolution with video format of 4k standard 
format (4096x2160 ) . 


( x ) " Evaluation Committee ” means a 
Committee duly constituted to judge the 
quality i.e. technical quality as well as content 
of the film financed under the scheme. 


(xi) " Registration Form " means a Form 
issued by the Entertainment Society of Goa 
for the purpose of enrolling the Film 
Producers . 


( xix ) " Short film " is a fictional film shot on 
celluloid or digital format which is not more 
than 30 minutes and less than 10 minutes in 
duration as per CBFC guidelines . 


( xii) " Application Form " means a Form 
issued by the Entertainment Society of Goa 
for applying for financial assistance for 
production of films as at Schedule II. 


(xx ) " Documentary film " is a film shot on 
celluloid or digital format which is not less 
than 10 minutes in duration as per CBFC 
guidelines. 


165 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE — GOVT. OF GOA 


SERIES I No. 6 


6TH MAY, 2010 


are born in Goa or must have 15 years 
domicile in the State of Goa . 


( xxi) “ Feature film " means a film which is 
shot on a 35mm or 16mm celluloid film , of 
more than 70 minutes duration as per CBFC 
guidelines. 


( iv ) The film sanctioned should have 50 % 
of the screen time depicting as been shot in 
the State of Goa and atleast 15 % screen time 
shared by cast from Goa . 


( xxii ) “ Telecine " is the process of 
transferring motion picture film into video 
form . 


(v ) The Film Producer/ s should be able to 
arrange balance funds to finance the film and 
proof to this effect will have to be given at 
the time of application for assistance under 
this scheme in the form of an affidavit . 


(xxiii) " FIAPFF ” means Federation 
International des Associations de Producteurs 
de Films/ International Federation of Film 
Producers Associations based in Paris , an 
organization composed with 31 member 
associations from 25 of the leading 
audiovisual production countries and is in 
charge of supervising International film 
festivals , including some of the world s most 
important ones . 


( vi) The Film Producer / s must not be in 
default of any amount due to the State 
Government /Government of India and an 
undertaking to this effect shall be submitted 
alongwith the application form . The Film 
Producers should file an affidavit for not 
having any criminal record or proceeding 
against him /her anywhere in the country . 


(xxiv ) “ National Film Award " means the 
Film Awards instituted by the Government of 
India in the year 1952 and organised by the 
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting 
Government of India . 


( vii) A Film Producer/ s should have filed 
Income Tax Returns for the last 3 years . 


(xxv ) CBFC means Central Board of Film 
Certification . 


D. Eligibility : The scheme is intended to 
provide financial assistance to films produced 
by Film Producers , registered with the 
society . The society will register the Film 
Producers who fulfill the following conditions. 


E. Procedure , terms and conditions 
governing the scheme. ( 1) The Feature films 
should be originally produced in Konkani or 
Marathi, and Non Feature films produced in 
Konkani, Marathi, Hindi and English 
languages. A dubbed / remake / revised version 
of a pre -produced film shall not be eligible to 
claim benefit of this scheme. 


(i) The Film Producers must have 15 years 
domicile in the State of Goa or born in Goa . 
However in case of Company /Partnership firm 
registering as Film Producers they should 
have more than 51 % stake owned by Goans 
who are born in Goa or must have 15 years 
domicile in the State of Goa . 


( 2 ) The detailed Synopsis , Screenplay, Cast , 
Budget summary alongwith the bio -data of 
the Screenplay Writer, Director and Film 
Producer should be submitted to the 
Entertainment Society of Goa for the purpose 
of initial approval; The Film Producer shall 
also submit an affidavit that the script 
submitted by him /her does not violate the 
provisions of the Indian Copyright Act and 
the ESG shall in no way be responsible for 
any or all claims arising out of violation of the 
copyright act and all such responsibility will 
lie with the Film Producer. In case of any 
proved violation of copyright act , the benefits 
under the scheme shall be withdrawn . The 
technical details like the format on which the 


(ii ) The Director of the Film should be a 
Goan by birth or must have 15 years domicile 
in the State of Goa . 


( iii ) In case of Society / Trust, registered 
under the societies act and trust act having 
more than 80 % of the members/ trustees who 


166 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE — GOVT. OF GOA 


SERIES I No. 6 


6TH MAY, 2010 


film is to be shot should also be submitted 
alongwith the initial application . Once 
approved by the Society, the applicant will 
not be permitted to change the shooting 
format. Any subsequent change in the film s 
shooting format will be treated as fresh 
application . 


( 3 ) The Film Producer producing any film 
shall have to undertake at least 50 % of the 
shooting within the State ofGoa and will have 
to submit a written undertaking of having 
given 50 % of screen time of the film within 
State of Goa, and at least 15 % screen time 
allotted to Goan artists who are born in Goa 
or have 15 years of domicile in the State of 
Goa . 


frame within which the shooting is to be 
completed . The time frame for completion of 
the shooting shall however not exceed 120 
days from the date of release of first 
installment. The entire time frame for 
completing the film should not exceed 200 
days from the date of release of first 
installment. In case of delay beyond 200 days , 
the society will impose a penalty up to 5 % of 
the total released amount. In case of undue 
delay without proper justification beyond 200 
days, the society will be authorized to cancel 
the approval granted under the scheme and 
will be at liberty to recover the principal along 
with the penal interest of 15 % p.a. on the 
amount disbursed to the Film Producers , from 
the date of default. The Film Producers shall 
submit to the Entertainment Society of Goa 
the final copy of the censored film alongwith 
the attested copy of the Certificate from the 
Central Board of Film Certification , 
Government of India , free of cost and the same 
shall be preserved in the film archive of the 
society. 


( 4 ) The Film Producer wishing to avail the 
financial assistance shall have to fill in an 
application form as per Schedule II hereto 
and submit all the enclosures mentioned 
therein . 


(5 ) The Screening Committee shall examine 
all the documents related to script submitted 
with the application for the financial 
assistance and give its recommendations to 
the ESG . In addition , the Film Producer / 
/Director will have to appear in person before 
the Screening Committee to explain the 
narrative and treatment of the film . 


(8 ) The Entertainment Society of Goa shall 
disburse the financial assistance under this 
scheme, in a maximum of three installments 
for films produced on film formats as per the 
following schedule : 


( a ) Towards the cost of camera 
equipment , hire charges of lights , crane 
and trolley equipment, cameraman s 
professional charges and raw stock . 


(6 ) The Screening Committee shall forward 
its approval/disapproval of the film projects 
to the ESG . The Entertainment Society of Goa 
in turn shall submit the approved proposal to 
the Finance Committee which shall convey 
its recommendations to the Governing Body 
of the Entertainment Society of Goa for 
necessary action , provided the applicants 
have complied with all the requirements 
under this scheme. 


(b ) Towards post production costs like 
studio charges, digital intermediate 
charges, laboratory , mixing , dubbing , 
dolby , duplication , subtitling, editor s and 
other professional fees etc. 


( 7 ) Finance committee will grant its 
approval to the projects forwarded by the 
Screening Committee and inform the ESG . 
Entertainment Society of Goa shall inform the 
Film Producer about the sanction of the 
financial assistance and also intimate the time 


( c ) On production of censor certificate 
which is compulsory . Non compliance of 
this clause shall make the Film Producer 
liable for penal action such as recovery of 
the disbursed financial assistance with 
penal interest @ 15 % p.a. from the date of 
release of the first installment. 


167 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE — GOVT. OF GOA 


SERIES I No. 6 


6TH MAY, 2010 


( 9 ) The amount towards ( a ) & (b ) 
mentioned in sub clause (8 ) above shall be 
reimbursed directly to the suppliers , 
professionals , vendors etc. on submission of 
Bills / Proforma Invoice . The Film Producer will 
have to submit a Bill within 30 days from the 
date of release of payment by the ESG to the 
supplier, professionals , vendors etc. No part 
of this amount shall be paid to the Film 
Producer directly . 


C. These categories will be determined on 
the basis of the overall quality of the film 
i.e. technical and the content of the film by 
the Evaluation Committee . The Committee 
shall work out its own procedures for 
categorising the films into various 
categories. 


A category film will be entitled to receive 
full 20 % of the balance installment . 


B category film will be entitled to receive 
10 % of the balance installment. 


( 10 ) The amount of financial assistance 
shall be disbursed on production of the 
following documents : 


C category film will not be entitled to 
receive any amount from the third installment . 


The following documents need to be 
submitted 


( a ) In case of celluloid films: Film Producers 
wishing to avail the financial assistance under 
the scheme should submit the following 
documents to the Entertainment Society of 
Goa for the release of the installments . 


( i) For release of the first installment : 
Invoice / Bill raised by the cost of camera 
equipment, hire charges of lights , crane 
and trolley equipment, cameraman s 
professional charges and raw stock 
amounting to a maximum of 40 % of the 
total amount of financial assistance 
sanctioned ; 


(a ) Statement of total expenses incurred 
by the Film Producer for the film and duly 
audited by the Chartered Accountant and 
verified by him /her certifying the 
correctness of the same. Subsequently the 
copy of the Income Tax returns filed by the 
Film Producer should be submitted to ESG 
reflecting the expenditure of the said film . 


(b ) Censor Certificate issued by Central 
Board of Film Certification -Government of 
India . 


(c ) Censored copy of the film in Digi 
beta , or DVD format for the record of the 
society. 


( ii ) For release of the second installment: 
Invoice /Bill raised by the studio /laboratory 
towards post production costs like studio 
charges , digital intermediate charges, 
laboratory , mixing, dubbing , dolby, 
duplication , subtitling etc. amounting to 
maximum of 40 % of the total financial 
assistance ; 


(b ) In case of films produced on Video and 
Digital formats : The reimbursement would be 
made in the following three stages: 


1. towards cost of camera , cameraman 
charges , lights , cranes , trolleys and tapes ; 


2. towards editing and studio charges ; 


3. on production of censor certificate . 


(iii) For release of the final installment: 
Amounting to balance of 20 % of the 
financial assistance sanctioned towards the 
production of film after the presentation of 
valid censor certificate and an 
Undertaking / Affidavit. This installment will 
be released directly to the Film Producer 
subject to clearance by the Evaluation 
Committee constituted by the society . The 
Evaluation Committee will grade the final 
film into three categories namely, A , B and 


( i) For release of the first installment: 
Invoice / Bill raised by the supplier of 
camera equipment , lights and tapes , crane 
and trolley equipment, cameraman s 
professional charges amounting to a 


168 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE — GOVT. OF GOA 


SERIES I No. 6 


6TH MAY, 2010 


maximum of 30 % of the total amount of 
financial assistance sanctioned ; 


(ii ) For release of the second installment: 
Invoice / Bill raised by the studio /laboratory 
towards post production costs like studio 
charges, laboratory, mixing , dubbing , 
duplication , subtitling etc. amounting to 
maximum of 50 % of the total financial 
assistance ; 


correctness of the same. Subsequently the 
copy of the Income Tax returns filed by 
Film Producer should be submitted to ESG 
reflecting the expenditure of the said film . 
The Film Producers must submit all shooting 
masters of the film to the society for 
verification of shooting format . 


( b ) Censor Certificate issued by Central 
Board of Film Certification - Government of 
India . 


(c ) Censored copy of the film in Digi-Beta 
or DVD format for the records of the society . 


(iii) For release of the final installment: 
Amounting to balance of 20 % of the 
financial assistance sanctioned towards the 
production of film after the presentation of 
the valid censor certificate and the 
undertaking that the film is not dubbed / 
/ remake /revised version . An Undertaking / 
Affidavit issued to the Film Producer to 
the effect that 50 % of the screen time used 
in the film has been shot in the State of 
Goa and atleast 15 % screen time is shared 
by cast from Goa . This installment will be 
released directly to the Film Producer 
subject to clearance by the Evaluation 
Committee constituted by the society . The 
Evaluation Committee will grade the final 
film into three categories namely A , B and 
C. These categories will be determined on 
the basis of the overall quality of the film 
i.e. technical and the content of the film by 
the Evaluation Committee . The Committee 
shall work out its own procedures for 
categorising the films into various 
categories . 


( 11 ) All Film Producers availing financial 
assistance from the Entertainment Society of 
Goa shall have to submit an authority letter 
authorising the Entertainment Society of Goa 
to screen their films free of cost for any film 
festival or special screenings. The Film 
Producer will have to give the final copy in 
celluloid or video format , as the case may be , 
free of cost to the society at the time of 
release of final installment. Such screening 
by the ESG will not entitle the Film Producer 
for any award /reward /monetary benefit 
under this scheme. 


( 12 ) In case if any Film Producer availing a 
part of financial assistance from the 
Entertainment Society of Goa and does not 
complete the film , the Entertainment Society 
of Goa shall have the right to initiate legal 
recovery proceedings and recover such 
amounts paid to him /her alongwith penal 
interest of 15 % p.a. 


A category film will be entitled to receive 
full 20 % of the balance installment. 


B category film will be entitled to receive 
10 % of the balance installment. 


( 13 ) In the event of any dispute arising 
between the Film Producer 

Film Producer and the 
Entertainment Society of Goa the same shall 
be referred to an Arbitrator in accordance to 
the provision of Indian Arbitration and 
Reconciliation Act . 


C category film will not be entitled to 
receive any amount from the third installment . 


The Film Producer to submit the following 
documents 


( 14) The Film Producer shall produce a 
bond in the prescribed form as regards the 
completion of the film in the agreed time 
schedule , meeting all the technical details of 
film production as per approved letter. The 
film must be completed in the time frame as 
mentioned at Clause D (7 ). 


( a ) Statement of expenses incurred and 
duly audited by the Chartered Accountant 
and verified by him /her certifying the 


169 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE — GOVT. OF GOA 


SERIES I No. 6 


6TH MAY, 2010 


( 15 ) Before the disbursement of 1st 
installment, the Film Producer shall have to 
submit to the Entertainment Society of Goa 
the details as to the sources from where the 
balance cost of the Production of the films 
shall be raised . 


Award at the National Film Awards or any 
International Award at a film festival 
recognised by FIAPFF and Rs. 7.5 lacs if 
Tele - films, Short film or Documentary wins 
an award at a film festival recognised by 
FIAPFF 


( 16 ) During the disbursement of 1st 
installment the Film Producer will have to 
sign an agreement as at Schedule III and 
submit bank guarantee matching the amount 
distributed by ESG to the Film Producer. 
During the release of 2nd installment the Film 
Producer will have to submit a matching bank 
guarantee 


(d ) In Feature film category Rs. 5,00,000 / 
for the Director of the film winning a 
National Award or International Award at 
FIAPF recognized film festival. And Rs . 
2,00,000 / - for the artists /technician in any 
individual category wins a National Award 

International Award at FIAPF 
recognised International Film Festival 
subject to a maximum aid for two festivals 
only . 


or 


( 17 ) Additional assistance to be provided 
by the Government as per the following 
details to promote good cinema: 


a 


( a ) Rs. 5,000 / - per show for theatre 
release and screening of Feature film 
( celluloid ) upto a maximum of 100 shows 
in theatres located in the State of Goa and 
Rs. 3000 / - per show for Tele - films/Feature 
film on video / digital formats upto a 
maximum of 50 shows, in theatres /public 
places and village panchayat areas located 
in the State of Goa subject to satisfactory 
furnishing of the proof of the screenings . 


( e ) In Non - Feature film category an 
award of Rs. 50,000 / - ( Fifty thousand ) for 
director / artist / technician winning 
National Film Award and Rs. 1,00,000 / - if 
the director /artist / technician win an 
Individual Award in any of the FIAPF 
recognised International Film Festival 
subject to a maximum aid for two festivals 
only . 


( b ) Rs. 5,00,000 / - if a film is screened in 
the official selection category , at the 
International Film Festival of India or any 
other International Film Festival recognized 
by FIAPF and Rs. 2,50,000/ - if a Tele- film / 
/ Short /Documentary film is screened in the 
official selection category , 

at 

the 
International Film Festival of India or any 
other International Film Festival recognized 
by FIAPF subject to a maximum aid for 
two festivals only . 


( 18 ) The Government will make law or issue 
ordinance to make theatres available for the 
release of celluloid films so that Film 
Producers will be made available a theatre 
for one week in each city or village . The Film 
Producer has to intimate to the theatre owner 
about his exhibition plans one month in 
advance . The theatre owners and Film 
Producers should share income equally 
therein . 


( 19 ) The Government will exempt all films 
made in Goa by Goan Film Producers from 
Entertainment Tax , VAT etc. 


( c ) Rs. 20,00,000 / - if a feature film wins 
the National Film Award in the best film 
category in regional language and Rs. 
25,00,000 for any other film category and 
Rs. 5,00,000 / - if the Tele - films, Short film or 
Documentary wins a National Award . Rs. 
30,00,000 / - if the film wins the Golden Lotus 


(20 ) The Government will make necessary 
provision to facilitate all Film Producers 
registered with the Entertainment Society of 
Goa to avail of the outdoor and indoor film 
shooting in Goa by paying a nominal charge 
of Rs. 1,000 /- per film including premises of 
autonomous bodies provided it satisfies the 
eligibility criteria as laid down at Clause E. 


170 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE — GOVT. OF GOA 


SERIES I No. 6 


6TH MAY, 2010 


(21) Government of Goa shall organise Goa 
State Film Festival. 


( 22 ) Under this scheme, the Entertainment 
Society of Goa may give financial assistance 
to various films subject to the funds available 
under the scheme. 


dispute or difference arising out of or in an 
way relating to or concerning these presents 
or the construction or effect of these presents , 
the same shall be referred to the sole 
arbitration of a Arbitrator to be appointed by 
Entertainment Society of Goa who shall be 
bound to appoint an Arbitrator within 45 
days from date such request is made from 
the stage at which it was pending. The 
arbitration proceedings shall be held in 
Panaji -Goa . 


(23 ) The Screening Committee shall consist 
of not more than ten members constituted by 
the society, with the approval of the State 
Government. The Committee will have at least 
one professional screenplay writer from the 
film industry, two persons from the field of 
literature , i.e. one each Konkani and Marathi 
and one technical person , and a film director 
of high standing. The quorum for the meeting 
of the Committee will be 50 % of the members 
in the Committee . 


From time to time, the Arbitrator may with 
the consent of both the parties to these 
presents , extend the time for making the 
award . The award of the Arbitrator shall be 
a reasoned award shall be final and binding 
on the parties to the presents . Subject as 
aforesaid , the Arbitration Conciliation Act , 
1966 ( 26 of 1996 ) and the rules made there 
under shall apply to the arbitration 
proceedings under this clause . The courts in 
Panaji-Goa , shall have exclusive jurisdiction . 


(24 ) The Finance Committee shall consist 
of not more than six members as may be 
constituted by the society , with the approval 
of Chairman , ESG . The Committee shall be 
headed by Chief Secretary of Goa . The 
quorum for the meeting of the Committee will 
be 50 % of the members in the Committee . 


case 


(25 ) The Evaluation Committee shall consist 
of not more than five members as may be 
constituted by the society , with the approval 
of the State Government. The Evaluation 
Committee will be headed by an eminent film 
Director and will also have a minimum of two 
technical experts . The quorum for the 
meeting of the Committee will be 60 % of the 
members in the Committee . 


G. Exemptions. ( 1 ) In 

of 
disbursement of financial assistance in one 
installment, the Film Producers who have 
completed their films and having censorship 
certificate dated from 1st January, 2008 till 
the date of notification of the scheme, may 
apply either in the revised scheme or in the 
pre - revised scheme and shall be entitled for 
benefits under the respective scheme only . 
However, the Film Producers will not be 
entitled for benefits under both the schemes. 


(26 ) ESG shall retain one copy of the film 
financed by ESG under the scheme in its 
archive for archival purpose . 


( 2 ) The films that have not availed 
assistance under Clause E 10 of this scheme 
are entitled for additional assistance as per 
Clause E 17 (b ) , 17 (c ), 17 ( d ) and 17 ( e ) 
provided , the films produced in Goa satisfy 
the eligibility Clause E of the scheme. 


(27) The film that has been produced shall 
compulsorily carry suitable credits that the 
film was financed by the Entertainment 
Society of Goa (Government of Goa) without 
which the final installment shall not be 
released . 


( 3 ) An individual who is born in Goa or 
has 15 years domicile of Goa but is not 
covered under the scheme and has not 
availed benefits of the present scheme and 
wins a National/ International Award as 
mentioned in Clause E - 17 will be rewarded 
as per Clause E 17 (d )/Clause E 17 ( e ). 


F. Arbitration Clause. 

Clause.— Except 

Except as 
otherwise provided herein in the event of any 


171 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE — GOVT. OF GOA 


SERIES I No. 6 


6TH MAY, 2010 


This has been issued with concurrence of 
Finance (Exp .) Department under their U.O. 
No. 1408339 dated 27-03-2010 . 


• If filmed on Digi-Beta or HD format ( 45-90 min ) 

maximum financial aid -Rs. 1.5 lakhs 
• If filmed on Beta cam SP / ( DVC pro ),maximum 

financial aid - Rs . 1 lakh 


By order and in the name of the 

Governor of Goa . 


b . For short film & documentary (below 30 min 
and above 10 min ) 


Menino Peres, Director of Information and 
Publicity & ex officio Jt. Secretary . 


• If filmed on 35 mm celluloid , maximum 

financial aid - Rs. 3 lakhs 


Panaji, 28th April, 2010 . 


• If filmed on 16 mm celluloid , maximum 

financial aid Rs . 2 lakhs 


• If filmed on Digi-Beta or HD format , maximum 

financial aid - Rs. 50,000 


SCHEDULE - I 


(See Clause 2 ) 
Feature Film Category (above 70 min ) 


• If filmed on Beta cam SP format, maximum 

financial aid - Rs. 30,000 
• If filmed on DVC pro maximum financial 

aid - Rs. 25,000 


• If filmed on 35 mm celluloid with Dolby digital, 
maximum financial aid - Rs. 25 lakhs 


SCHEDULE - II 


• If filmed on 35 mm celluloid , maximum 

financial aid - Rs . 20 lakhs 
• If filmed on 4k and above resolution digital 

camera with film print and Dolby digital 
maximum financial aid - Rs . 25 lakhs 


( See Clause D 4 ) 
Entertainment Society of Goa 

Government of Goa 


• If filmed on 4k and above resolution digital 

camera with film print, maximum financial 
aid - Rs. 20 lakhs 


APPLICATION FOR AVAILING GRANT AID / 
/FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FOR PRODUCTION OF 

FILM BY GOAN FILM PRODUCERS 


• If filmed on 4k and above resolution digital 

camera without film print ,maximum financial 
aid - Rs. 15 lakhs 


1. Name of the Film Produce 
a . Age ... 

Sex 


2. Address Office : 


a . 


• If filmed on 16 mm celluloid with Dolby digital, 

maximum financial aid - Rs . 20 lakhs 


b . Tel: 
c . Residence : 


Tel: 


• If filmed on 16 mm celluloid , maximum 

financial aid Rs . 15 lakhs 


II.II. 


• If filmed on HD format , maximum financial 

aid - Rs. 8 lakhs 


3. Represented by (only in case of companies ) 

4 . Whether Individual/ Partnership / Ltd . 
Co /Society 

5. (If not an individual, then , names and details 
of others ) 

6. Registration details ( if not an individual): 


• If filmed on Digi-Beta , maximum financial 

aid - Rs. 3 lakhs 


• If filmed on Betacam SP maximum financial 

aid - Rs. 2 lakhs 


• If filmed on DVC pro maximum financial 

aid - Rs . 1 lakh 


7. Type of film proposed to be made: Feature /Non 
Feature 


Non Feature category 


8. If Non Feature above 30 min or below 30 min 
and above 10 min 


a . For short film & documentary ( above 30 min ) 


9. Proposed Format: 35mm / 16mm /HD /Digi-Beta / 
/Beta cam /DVC Pro etc. 


• If filmed on 35 mm celluloid , maximum 

financial aid – Rs. 5 lakhs. 


10. Duration of film : 


.hrs 


min 


• If filmed on 16 mm celluloid , maximum 

financial aid - Rs. 3 lakhs 


11. Have you produced any celluloid film or video 
film earlier : Yes /No 


172 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE — GOVT. OF GOA 


SERIES I No. 6 


6TH MAY, 2010 


12. In case of " Yes" give details of the film ..... 


13. Was your film censored : Yes/No 


14. Has your film participated in any Goan / 
/National/ International Film Festival: 


27. When do you propose to start with the 
shooting : 

28. Please enclose shooting schedule : 
29. Time required for shooting of the film : 
30. Time required for post production : 

31. When do you expect the film to get ready 
and duly censored : Month : 

Year: .... 
When do you expect the film to be released for 
public : 


Yes /No ........... In case of “ Yes ” give details ....... 

15. Has your film won any awards in the festival: 
Yes/ No 

If " Yes" give details 


16. Have you ever before availed subsidy for 
producing films from the Government of Goa or any 
Government agency 


I /WE HEREBY DECLARE ALL THE 
INFORMATION PROVIDED IN THIS FORM IS 
CORRECT TO THE BEST OF MY/OUR KNOWLEDGE 
AND BELIEF AND NO PART OF IT IS FALSE (if the 
information given is found to be false the 
application may be rejected ) 


Yes/ No. If " Yes" give details 


17. Name of the film you propose to produce for 
which you are applying for financial assistance 


18.Whether the film is Original/Remake /Dubbed : 


Date : 
Signature of the Film Producer 
Seal 


19. Whether the film is based on any Novel then 
Title & Author s name ( enclose proof of the right 
acquisition of the written work on which the film 
is based ). 


CHECK LIST OF DOCUMENTS ENCLOSED 

WITH APPLICATION FORM 
1. Application form (Schedule II) 
2. Proof of eligibility as prescribed in the scheme 
3. Synopsis - Story 
4. Biodata of Story Writer 
5. Biodata of the Film Producer 


20. Language: 


21. Total cost: 


22. Amount of financial assistance required 
under the scheme: 

( attach separate sheet 
giving details ) 


6. Biodata of the Director 


7. Biodata of the Music Director 


8. Biodata of the Director of Photography 


23. Details of expenditure on production of the 
film : 

( attach separate sheet, expenditure to be shown 
headwise ) 


SCHEDULE III 


AGREEMENT 


24. Details of balance amount to be raised by 
Film Producer.... 

25. Name of Director his /her address: ........... (also 
attach his /her bio -data on separate sheet) 

26. Name and addresses of following with 
bio - data 


a . Story writer : 
b . Screenplay writer: 
c . Lyrics writer: 
d . Dialogues writer : 
e . Music director: 
f . Name of Choreographer, if any : 
g . Director of photography: 
h . List of the main actors : 
i. Sound recordist : 
j. Editor: 


This agreement is made this day .. 
between the Entertainment Society of Goa, 
Government of Goa having its office at Maquinez 
Palace , Heritage Precinct, D. B. Marg , Campal, 
Panaji- Goa . Represented herein by its Chief 
Executive Officer, major of age , Indian National, 
having its office at Campal, Panaji, Goa hereinafter 
referred as ESG for the sake of brevity (which 
expression shall, unless repugnant to the meaning 
or context thereof, be deemed to include its 
administrators and assign ) ofthe one part and Shri/ 
/Smt./Kum . 

., son / daughter /wife 
of. 

resident of .............. /(hereinafter 
referred to as the FILM PRODUCER (which 
expression shall, unless repugnant to the context 


173 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE — GOVT. OF GOA 


SERIES I No. 6 


6TH MAY, 2010 


or meaning thereofbe deemed to , include his /her 
heirs , successors, executors and assigns ) ofthe other 
part . 


production ofthe film or within a period of one year 
from the date of release of subsidy whichever is 
earlier failing which a penal interest at the rate of 
twenty - four per cent per annum shall be charged . 


Whereas the Film Producer being desirous of 
making a full length cinematographic film or tele 
film entitled as (Name of the film ) ........... in 
Konkani/Marathi in black and white or in colour 
requested the ESG for a subsidy of Rs. 
(Rs ..... 

. ). 


That the Film Producer shall submit a quarterly 
progress report of the production of the film to the 
CEO , ESG . This office shall depute or authorise 
anyone on its behalf to visit any Laboratory, Studio 
or any other place where the film is being produced 
or processed and the Film Producer shall be bound 
to cooperate with him by showing all materials or 
documents or accounts of which he may require 
inspection . 


And whereas the Government of Goa has floated 
a scheme called Film Finance Scheme which is to 
be implemented through ESG and the Film Producer 
has applied for availing grant - in - aid / financial 
assistance vide application date 

And 
whereas in terms of the said Film Finance Scheme 
the ESG has agreed to grant a subsidy of Rs. ........ 
(Rs. ..... ... ) on the following terms and conditions, 
namely : 


That the Film Producer shall maintain true and 
full account of the expenditure incurred by him for 
the completion of the film and this office shall also 
have the right to call for the details of the accounts 
and to inspect the same and the Film Producer 
shall be bound to produce the same forthwith . 


The parties will be bound by the Film Finance 
Scheme approved by the Government of Goa , copy 
whereof is annexed and duly signed by the parties 
and which is to form integral part of this agreement. 


Notwithstanding anything contained herein , ESG 
will have right to suspend , revoke this agreement 
and also to recover any part or entire amount 
advanced by ESG to the FILM PRODUCER in case 
it is found that 


a . 


There is misrepresentation by the FILM 
PRODUCER . 


That first installment of forty per cent of the 
subsidy amount shall be secured by furnishing of 
Bank guarantee alongwith a surety equal to the 
amount of the subsidy by the Film Producer and 
the same shall be valid till the completion of the 
film and in the case of abandonment of production 
of film by the Film Producer aforesaid the Bank 
guarantee alongwith surety shall be valid till the 
amount of subsidy drawn by the Film Producer, 
shall be refunded to the ESG . 


b . Any fraud committed by the Film Producer 

in relation to the application and the film 
finance scheme. 


C. 


In such case the FILM PRODUCER shall not 
be entitled to make any claim for damages 
against ESG for any loss suffered or likely to 
be suffered . 


The second installment of the film amounting to 
40 % will be given after the completion of shooting 
for the post production of the film secured by 
furnishing of Bank guarantee alongwith a surety 
equal to the amount of the subsidy by the Film 
Producer and the same shall be valid till the 
completion of the film and in the case of 
abandonment of production of film by the Film 
Producer aforesaid the Bank guarantee alongwith 
surety shall be valid till the amount of subsidy 
drawn by the Film Producer, shall be refunded to 
the ESG . 


Notwithstanding anything contained herein , if 
in the view of ESG , it is not in public interest to 
continue funding / aiding the FILM PRODUCER in 
particular or chooses to withdraw the scheme in 
general, this agreement shall stand terminated and 
the FILM PRODUCER shall not be entitled to make 
any claim for damages against ESG for any loss 
suffered or likely to be suffered . 

That the stamp duty leviable on this Agreement 
shall be borne by the Film Producer . 


That last twenty per cent (20 % ) of the subsidy 
shall be given on completion of the film and 
submission of the censor certificate . 


In witness whereof the parties hereto have signed 
this Agreement on the day of the year first above 
written . 


SIGNED , SEALED AND DELIVERED BY CEO , ESG 
FOR AND BEHALF OF ESG 


That in case the Film Producer fails to complete 
the film or abandons the production mid -way at 
any stage, the entire amount of subsidy released 
shall have to be refunded to the ESG within a period 
of three months the date of abandonment of 


SIGNED , SEALED AND DELIVERED 
BY the FILM PRODUCER VIZ . 
(.............. 

...... ) 


174 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE — GOVT. OF GOA 


SERIES I No. 6 


6TH MAY, 2010 


Department of Inland Waterways 


Captain of Ports 


Notification 


D - 12018 /6 / 2287 


Whereas certain draft rules which the Government of Goa proposed to make so as to 
further amend the Goa , Daman and Diu Ports Rules, 1983, were published as required by 
sub - section ( 2 ) of section 6 of the Indian Ports Act , 1908 (Central Act 15 of 1908 ), in the 
Official Gazette Series I No. 39 dated 24th December, 2009, under Notification No. D - 12018 / 
/6 /2287 dated 14th December, 2009 , of the Department of Inland Waterways , Captain of 
Ports, Government of Goa , inviting objections and suggestions from the persons likely to 
be affected thereby before the expiry of fifteen days from the date of publication of the 
said Notification in the Official Gazette ; 


And Whereas the said Gazette was made available to the public on 24th December, 2009 ; 


And Whereas , the objections and suggestions received from the public on the said draft 
rules have been considered by the Government. 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 read with sections 33 , 
34 , 35 , 39 , 46 and 47 of the Indian Ports Act , 1908 (Central Act 15 of 1908 ), and all other 
powers enabling it in this behalf, the Government of Goa hereby makes the following rules 
so as to further amend the Goa , Daman and Diu Ports Rules , 1983 , namely : 


( 1) These rules may be called the Goa Ports 


1. Short title and commencement. 
(Amendment) Rules, 2010 . 


( 2 ) They shall come into force at once . 


2. Amendment of rule 1.- In the Goa , Daman and Diu Ports Rules, 1983 (hereinafter 
called as the " principal Rules " ), in rule ( 1) and in other rules of the principal Rules , the 
figure and words, " Daman and Diu " wherever they occur , shall be omitted . 


3. Amendment of rule 2. In rule 2 of the principal Rules , 


(i) for clause (i), the following clause shall be substituted , namely : 


“ (i) " Port Authority ” means the Captain of Ports or the Deputy Captain of Ports ;" ; 


( ii ) clause (0 ) shall be omitted . 


4. Amendment of rule 15.— In rule 15 of the principal Rules, in sub - rule ( 3 ), the first 
proviso shall be omitted . 


5. Amendment of rule 54 A.— In rule 54 A of the principal Rules , in sub -rule (2 ), for 
the letters and figures “ Rs. 1,500 / -" , the letters and figures " Rs. 10,000 / -" shall be substituted . 


6. Amendment of rule 65.— In rule 65 of the principal Rules, for the expression 
" one thousand rupees " , the expression " two thousand rupees" shall be substituted . 


175 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE — GOVT. OF GOA 


SERIES I No. 6 


6TH MAY, 2010 


Schedule - I 


appended to 


the principal 


7 . Amendment of Schedule - I.- In 
Rules , 


( i) 


in item 1 , for clause ( a ), the following clause shall be substituted , namely : 


" (a ) Inland non -mechanized craft 


( i) Upto 2.00 tons per annum 


Rs . 40.00 


( ii) Above 2.00 tons and upto 5.00 tons per annum 


Rs. 50.00 


( iii ) Above 5.00 tons and upto 10.00 tons per annum 


Rs. 60.00 


(iv ) Above 10.00 tons and upto 25.00 tons per annum 


Rs. 70.00 


(v ) Above 25.00 tons, 


( A ) First 25 tons per annum 


Rs. 80.00 


(B ) Every additional 20.00 tons 


Rs. 15.00 " ; 


( ii ) in item 2 , for the expression " Double the rates under item No. 1" , the expression 
“ Double the rates under item No. 1 except that for every additional 20.00 tons above 25.00 
tons, Rs. 50 / - shall be charged ," shall be substituted ; 


(iii) in item 3 , for the words and figure " item No. 1 " , the words and figure " item 
No. 2 " shall be substituted ; 


( iv ) after item 4 , the following " Note " shall be inserted , namely : 


“ Note: - The owner of the new craft shall pay licence fees as " one time fees " for the total period of 
15 years at the time of Licensing of the craft and those crafts which are already licensed and annual 
licence fee is paid every year, shall continue to pay for the remaining years on the basis of the rates 
of annual licence fees." ; 


(v ) in item 17 , for clauses (i) to ( vi), the following clauses shall be substituted , namely : 


" (i) For inspection of non -mechanized craft upto 25 tons 


Each 


Rs . 100.00 


( ii ) For inspection of non -mechanized craft above 25 tons 


Each 


Rs . 200.00 


( iii ) For inspection of mechanized craft 


Each 


Rs. 500.00 " ; 


( vi) in item 18 , for letters and figures " Rs. 10.00 " , the letters and figures " Rs. 100.00 " 
shall be substituted ; 


(vii ) in item 19 , for clauses (i) to ( ix ), the following clauses shall be substituted , namely : 


“ (i ) For measurement of non -mechanized craft upto 25 tons . 


Rs. 100.00 


(ii) For measurement of non -mechanized craft above 25 tons . 


Rs. 200.00 


(iii) For measurement of mechanized craft 


Rs. 500.00 " ; 


176 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE — GOVT. OF GOA 


SERIES I No. 6 


6TH MAY, 2010 


(viii ) in item 24 , for clause ( a ), the following clause shall be substituted , namely : 


" ( a ) Passengers embarking /disembarking on a craft - Rs. 6.00 each " ; 


(ix ) in item 26 , for clauses ( 1) to ( 3 ), the following clauses shall be respectively substituted , 
namely : 


" ( 1) For a mechanized craft entering the Port - 


Rs. 2.00 per ton for entry 


(2 ) For a non -mechanized craft entering the Port - Re. 1.00 per ton for entry 


( 3 ) For passenger vessel - Rs. 3.00 per ton for entry ; 


(x ) in item 54 , for clauses (i) and ( ii ), the following clauses shall be respectively substituted , 
namely : 


Rs. 2.00 


" (i) Sea going craft (mechanized 
or non -mechanized ) 


Per ton for 30 days or 
part thereof 


( ii ) Mechanized passenger craft 


-do 


Rs . 2.00 " ; 


(xi) in item 55 , for clauses (i), ( ii) and ( iii ), the following clauses shall be respectively 
substituted , namely : 


" (i) Country craft or sailing vessel 

upto 100 tons minimum 
payable Rs. 25 / 


Per day , per ton or 
part thereof 


Rs. 0.50 


(ii ) Country craft or sailing vessel 

above 100 tons minimum 
payable Rs. 35 / 


Per day, per ton or 
part thereof 


Rs. 0.50 


( iii) Mechanized craft 


Per day, per ton or 
part thereof 


Rs. 1.00 " ; 


8. Amendment of Schedule - II.— In Schedule - II appended to the principal Rules, 


(i) in item ( 1), for letters and figures " Rs. 0.50 " , the letters and figures " Re. 1.00 " shall 
be substituted ; 


7 


( ii ) in item ( 2 ), for letters and figures " Rs. 140 / -” and “ Rs. 28 / -" , the letters and figures 
“ Rs. 280 / -" and " Rs. 56 / -" shall be respectively substituted ; 


(iii ) in item ( 3 ), — 


( A ) in sub - item ( i), - 


( I) in clause (a ), for letters and figures “ Rs. 84 / -" , the letters and figures 
" Rs. 168 / - ” shall be substituted ; 


(II) in clause (b ) , for letters and figures " Rs. 126 /- " , the letters and figures 
" Rs. 252 /- " shall be substituted ; 


177 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE — GOVT. OF GOA 


SERIES I No. 6 


6TH MAY, 2010 


( B ) in sub - item ( ii), for letters and 
figures " Rs. 210 / -" , the letters and 
figures " Rs. 420 / -" shall be substituted ; 


North and South Goa , shall be responsible for 
submitting the cases ofmaternal death within 
24 hours of receipt of information and 48 hours 
of death taking place and monthly reporting 
to the Chief Secretary . 


( iv ) in item (4 ), for letters and figures 
" Rs. 7.00 " , " Rs. 10.00 " , " Rs. 14.00 " , 
" Rs . 21.00 " , 

21.00 " , " Rs. 35.00 " , " Rs. 56.00 " , 
" Rs. 70.00 " and " Rs. 100.00 " , the letters and 
figures " Rs. 14.00 " , " Rs. 20.00 " , " Rs. 30.00 " , 
" Rs. 40.00 " , " Rs . 70.00 " , " Rs . 100.00 " , 
" Rs. 140.00 " and " Rs. 200.00 " shall be 
respectively substituted ; 


By order and in the name of the 

Governor of Goa. 


D. G. Sardessai, Joint Secretary (Health ) . 


Porvorim , 23rd April , 2010 . 


(v ) in item (5 ), for letters and figures 
“ Rs. 140.00 " , " Rs. 160.00 ” and “ Rs. 40.00 " , 
the letters and figures " Rs. 280.00 " , " Rs. 
320.00 " and " Rs. 80.00 " shall be respectively 
substituted ; 


Department of Reveune 


Notification 


16-11-2009 / RD ( PART) 


( vi) in item (6 ) , for the letters and figures 
“ Rs. 3.00 " , " Rs. 3.50 " , " Rs. 4.00 " and " Rs. 
0.20 " , the letters and figures " Rs. 6.00 " , " Rs. 
7.00 " , " Rs. 8.00 " and " Re . 1.00 " shall be 
respectively substituted . 


the 


By order and in the name of 

Governor of Goa . 


The following draft rules proposed to be 
made so as to further amend the Goa , Daman 
and Diu Land Revenue (Record of Rights and 
Register of Cultivators ) Rules , 1969, are hereby 
pre -published as required by sub - section ( 3 ) 
of section 199 ofGoa Land Revenue Code, 1968 
(Act 9 of 1969) , for information of the public 
and notice is hereby given that the said draft 
rules will be taken into consideration by the 
Government on the expiry of fifteen days from 
the date of publication of this notification in 
the Official Gazette . 


Capt . A. P. Mascarenhas, Captain of Ports 
& ex officio Joint Secretary . 


Panaji, 23rd April, 2010 . 


Department of Public Health 


Order 


47 / 12 / 2010 - I /PHD 


All objections and suggestions to the 
said draft rules may be forwarded to the 
Secretary (Revenue ) to the Government of 
Goa, Secretariat, Porvorim , before the expiry 
of the said period of fifteen days from the 
date of publication of this notification in the 
Official Gazette so that may be taken into 
consideration at the time of finalization of 
draft Rules . 


DRAFT RULES 


Approval of the Government is hereby 
conveyed for the implementation of " Maternal 
Death Audit ” scheme of Ministry of Health & 
Family Welfare , Government of India . It shall 
be mandatory for District Collectors to 
implement the scheme. The scheme makes it 
obligatory to send the information regarding 
reporting of maternal death to the District 
Collectors , Medical Superintendent , Goa 
Medical College , Medical Superintendent/ Dy . 
Directors of each of the District Hospitals of 


In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - section ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of section 199 of the Goa 
Land Revenue Code, 1968 (Act 9 of 1969) and 
all other powers enabling it in this behalf, 
the Government of Goa hereby makes the 


178 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE — GOVT. OF GOA 


SERIES I No. 6 


6TH MAY, 2010 


following rules so as to further amend the 
Goa , Daman and Diu Land Revenue (Record 
of Rights and Register of Cultivators ) Rules , 
1969, namely : 


tation register maintained in Form IX 
hereto . " ; 


( ii ) in sub - rules (2 ) and ( 3 ), for the word 
" Talathi" , wherever it occurs , the words 
" Mamlatdar of Taluka " shall be 
substituted ; 


1. Short title and commencement.- ( 1 ) 
These rules may be called the Goa Land 
Revenue (Record of Rights and Register of 
Cultivators ) (Amendment) Rules , 2010 . 


( iii) in sub -rule (4 ), for the expression 
" talathi receives from " shall be 
substituted . 


( 2 ) They shall come into force at once . 


2. Amendment of Rule 4.- In rule 4 of 
the Goa , Daman and Diu Land Revenue 
(Record of Rights and Register of Cultivators ) 
Rules , 1969 (hereinafter referred to as the 
“ Principal Rules " ) , - 


4. Substitution of rule 10.— For rule 10 of 
the principal Rules , the following shall be 
substituted , namely : 


(i ) In the first proviso , for the word 
" Talathi" , thewords " Mamlatdar of Taluka " 
shall be substituted ; 


" 10. Notice of Mutation.- ( 1 ) The 
Mamlatdar of Taluka shall scrutinize the 
report received under rule 9 within seven 
days from the date of receipt of same and 
issue notice in Form X hereto to the 
persons interested in lands. One copy of the 
Notice in Form X shall be displayed on the 
Notice Board of the Mamlatdar s Office : 


( ii ) second and third provisos shall be 
omitted ; 


( iii) for Explanation III, the following 
Explanation shall be substituted, namely : 


Provided that no such notice is required 
for carrying out mutation where , - 


" Explanation III . — For the purpose of 
Chapter VIII of the Goa Land Revenue 
Code, 1968 , the term " Mamlatdar of 
Taluka " includes Joint Mamlatdar and 
in case of City Survey Records, the 
Inspector of Surveys and Land Records" . 


( i) the persons interested in land appear 
before the Mamlatdar and give their no 
objection for carrying out mutation by an 
affidavit ; 


( ii ) Land is acquired under the Land Ac 
quisition Act, 1894 (Central Act 1 of 1894 ); 


3. Amendment of rule 9.— In rule 9 of 
principal Rules , 


(i) for sub -rule ( 1), the following sub -rule 
shall be substituted , namely : 


( iii) Right to the land is acquired under 
the Goa , Daman and Diu Agricultural 
Tenancy Act , 1964 (Act 7 of 1964 ) and 
the Goa , Daman and Diu Mundkars 
(Protection from Eviction ) Act, 1976 ( Act 1 
of 1976 ) ; 


( iv ) Orders have been passed by the 
Collector under Section 61 or Section 103 
of the Code : 


" ( 1) Any person acquiring any right of 
land as mentioned in Section 96 of the 
Code shall report his acquisition of such 
right to the Mamlatdar of Taluka 
alongwith the documents concerning ac 
quisition of rights and detailed address of 
the persons interested in such land . The 
Mamlatdar of Taluka or the official autho 
rized by him in this behalf shall at once 
give endorsement for receipt of such re 
ports and enter the Mutation in the Mu 


Provided further that such Notice shall 
be issued to all co - owners of land where 
mutation sought involves Land that is 
not portioned and held in common by all 
CO - owners . 


179 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE — GOVT. OF GOA 


SERIES I No. 6 


6TH MAY, 2010 


8. Substitution of rule 14. — For rule of the 
principal Rules, the following shall be 
substituted , namely : 


( 2 ) Mamlatdar may permit to effect 
service of Notice by the applicant by way of 
registered Post AD or by courier 
service as may be approved by the Collec 
tor . Where the Mamlatdar is satisfied that 
for any reason the summons cannot be 
served in the ordinary way, the Mamlatdar 
shall order the notice to be served by an 
advertisement in a newspaper circulating 
in locality ." 


“ 14. Giving effect to the certified entries 
in mutation register in the record of 
rights.- Immediately after the mutation 
entry is certified under rule 13 , the 
Mamlatdar of Taluka shall give effect to the 
mutation entry as certified in the records of 
rights on payment of fees as mentioned in 
section 96 of the Code." 


5. Substitution of rule 11. — For rule 11 of 
the principal Rules , the following shall be 
substituted , namely : 


" 11. Objections. — ( 1) Upon receipt of any 
objection against carrying out the 
Mutation as applied for, the Mamlatdar of 
Taluka shall enter each objection in a 
register of disputed cases maintained in 
Form V hereto . 


9. Insertion of new rule 14A.— After rule 14 
of the principal Rules, the following rule 
shall be inserted , namely : 


( 2 ) The Mamlatdar shall issue a notice in 
Form XII hereto to all the personswho have 
objected for carrying out mutation . The 
Mamlatdar shall decide objections within a 
period of three months after hearing all 
parties. He shall also record in Column 4 of 
the mutation register the order passed by 
him , under his signature ." 


“ 14A . Maintenance of Records of 
Rights.- Records of Rights shall be 
maintained in Form I alongwith survey plan 
indicating boundary of each survey 
number or as the case may be, sub -division 
of a survey number in Form XV hereto by 
either the Survey Officer or the Revenue 
Officer " . 


10. Omission of Forms VIII and XI. Forms 
VIII and XI of the principal Rules shall be 
omitted . 


6. Substitution of rule 12. — For rule 12 of 
the principal Rules , the following shall be 
substituted , namely : 


11. Substitution of Form XII. For Form 
XII of the principal Rules , the following Form 
shall be substituted , namely : 


(here give Form XII ). 


“ 12. Disposal of mutation application. 
In case all the notices are served to the 
persons interested in land and there is no 
objection for carrying out mutation , the 
Mamlatdar shall proceed to dispose of the 
application for mutation ." 


12. Insertion of new Form XV . After Form 
XIV of the principal Rules , the following Form 
shall be inserted , namely : 


7. Substitution of rule 13.— For rule 13 of 
the principal Rules , the following shall be 
substituted , namely : 


(Please insert here Form XV ). 


By order and in the name of the 

Governor of Goa . 


“ 13. In case the Mamlatdar decides to 
certify the mutation entry , he shall make an 
endorsement under his signature in Column 
4 mutation register maintained in Form IX , 
to the effect that the mutation entry as 
modified by him is certified by him ." 


Pandharinath N. Naik , Under Secretary 
(Revenue- I). 


17 


Porvorim , 30th April , 2010 . 


180 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE — GOVT. OF GOA 


SERIES I No. 6 


6TH MAY, 2010 


FORM V 


[See Rule 11 ( 1 ) ] 


Register of Disputed Cases 


Serial SerialNo. in 
No. mutation Register 


Survey No. and Sub - Division 
No. or name of the field 


Date of Receipt 
of objection 


Particulars of 
disputes with name 


Order of the 
Officer 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


FORM X 


[See Rule 10 ( 1 )] 


Whereas an entry has been made in the register of mutation of the Village 

Taluka 
regarding the acquisition of rights in land as specified below from the said village : 


Serialnumber of entry 
in Mutation register 


Nature of 
rights acquired 


Name of the field or survey number and sub - division 
number in which the rights have been acquired 


And whereas it appears to me that you are interested in the said mutation entry : 

Now , therefore , you are hereby given notice of the said mutation entry and you are called upon to submit 
to me either orally or in writing within fifteen days from the day ofreceipt of the notice , your objection , if any, 
to the said mutation entry. Please note that if no objection is received bymewithin said period of fifteen days 
it shall be presumed that you agree to themutation entry. 


Place : 


Date : 


Mamlatdar of................. 


FORM XII 


[ See Rule 11 ( 2 ) ] 

Notice 
Whereas an entry hasbeen made in the mutation register of Village 

...... Taluka ...... 
regarding acquisition of rights in lands as specified below from the said village : 


Serial number of 
Mutation entry 


Nature of 
rights 


Name of the field or survey number and sub - division 
number affected 


And whereas it appears to me from the village record that you are interested in the said mutation entry . 

Now , therefore , I,Mamlatdar in charge of the Taluka in which the aforesaid land is situated , hereby give a 
notice to you to remain presentbefore me for placing your say about the said mutation entry or the dispute 
about it. Please also note that if you fail to remain present, it shallbe presumed that you have nothing to say 
in the matter and the dispute about themutation entry will be decided and the mutation entry certified in 
your absence . 


Place : 
Date : 


Mamlatdar of 


... 


181 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE — GOVT. OF GOA 


SERIES I No. 6 


6TH MAY, 2010 


भदाण पश्यन्तुमा काश्या 
कुखमाप्नुय 


GOA. 


> 


LGOVEL 


GOVERNMENT OF GOA 


N 


Directorate of Settlement and Land Records 

PANAJI - GOA 


4 


FORM XV 


( See Rule 14A ) 
Integrated Land Records Document 


Plan showing plot situated at 
Village : 
Taluka : 
Survey No./Sub-division No.: 
Scale : 

Inspector of Survey & 
Land Records 


Extract from FORMI 
Name of The Field : 
Tenure : 
Cultivable Area : Sq . mts . 
Dry Crop : 
Garden : 
Rice : 
Khajan : 
Ker : 
Morad : 
Total Cultivable : 


PLAN 


Uncultivable Area ( Pot-Kharab ): Sq .mts. 
Class (a ) 
Class (b ) 
TotalUncultivable : 
Total Area : 


Name of the Occupant : 


Name of the Tenant : 


Other Rights : 
(Name of person holding rights and nature of rights ) 

End of Report 
( Page 1 to 1 ) 


Compared by: 


Computer generated by : 
Date : 


NOTE : In case of details in FORM I in respect of occupant/tenant/ other 

rights are more in number, this FORM XV will be continued on 
further pages i.e. page 2 , page 3 and so on till the end of report. 


www.goagovt.nic.in/gazette.htm 
Published and Printed by the Director, Printing & Stationery, 

Government Printing Press , 
MahatmaGandhi Road , Panaji-Goa 403 001. 


PRICE - Rs. 20.00 


182 


