tf)-(tf) — 78 


REGISTERED NO. 



9JRcT 

(The Gazette of fStxdia 


yifu^n $ ycFTftm 

PUBLISHED BY. AUTHORlTt 


Ho 26] font, HfHHTC, fHH**Tt 23, 1978 (HTfarH 1, 1900) 

No. 26] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1978 (ASVINA 1, 1900) 


?H HPT H HWT it Htfft | IhHH fa ^ HHH H«PH* % H XOT HT I 

Separate paging is given to this Fart in order that It may be filed as a separate compilation. 


HTH HI — SF*¥ 3 
PART III— SECTION 3 
snj srcromf h sTfawm* 

Notifications relating to Minor Administrations 


UNION TERRITORY OF DADRA AND NAGAR 
HAVEL1 

ADMINISTRATION OF 
DADRA AND NAGAR HAVELI 
Noti. No, ADM/LAW/137/77 
Silvassa, the l$t August 1978 

No. ADM/LAW/ 137/ (22) /78. — In exercise of the powers 
conferred by Section 16 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 
(Act 37 of 1952) read with the Government of India, Minis^ 
try of Home Affairs, Notification No. F/2/3/72-UTL, dated 
4th May, 1972, the Administrator, Dadra and Nngnr Haveli, 
hereby makes the following Rules, 


CHAPTER I 

Intr oductory — Preliminary 

t. Short title and application.— {1) These rules shall be 
called “the Dadra and Nagar Haveli Cinematograph Rules, 
1978. 

(2) They shall, save as expressly provided otherwise, apply 
to and in relation to all cinemas in the Union Territory of 
Dadra and Nagar Haveli and shall come mto force from the 
date of its publication in Government of India Gazette. 

2. Definitions . — dn these rules, unless there is anything 
repugnant in thi subject or context : — 

(a) “The Act 1 ’ means the Cinematograph Act 1952 
(No. 37 of 1952). 

1— 258GI/78 


(b) “Cinema” means any place wherein an exhibition by 
means of cinematograph is given. 

(c) “enclosure" means the separate room or cabin pro- 
vided under rule 21 in which Cinematograph machine 
or machines are housed. 

(d) “Form” means a- form appended to these rules, 

(e) “Licensee’’ or “holder of licence” includes the mana- 
ger or managers nominated under rule 114. 

(f) “Auditorium" means that portion of the premises 
which is usually occupied by the audience or the 
spectators during a cinematograph exhibition. 

(g) “Electrical Inspector' 5 means an officer appointed as 
such by the Administrator and includes an Assistant 
Electrical Inspector under section 36 of the Indian 
Electricity Act, 1910. 

(h) “Executive Engineer” means the Executive Engineer, 
Public Works Department, Dadra and Nagar Haveli. 

(i) “Licensing Authority” means the District Magistrate, 
Dadra and Nagar Haveli. 

(j) “Permanent Building” means a building which is 
constructed with stone, mud, brick, mortar, cement 
or other non-inflamable materials for permanent use 
as a cinema. 

(k) “Temporary Building” means a building which is 
not a permanent building and includes a booth or 
barrack, thatched /roof, a tent or any other structure 
which may or may not be constructed with inflam- 
ablc material. 

(l) “Travelling Cinema” means a Cinematograph 
which is so constructed that it can be moved from 


(143) 





144 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 23, 1978 (ASVINA 1, 1900) [Part III— SEC. 3 


place to place foT the purpose of giving Cinemato- 
graph exhibition and includes all such places as 
temporary buildings like barracks or residential or 
commercial buildings or parts thereof which casually 
exhibit Cinematograph but which have not obtained 
or which are not eligible for grant ot a licence lor 
permanent exhibition of Cinematograph under rule. 

(m) words and expressions used in the Act and not 
defined in these rules shall have the meaning assign- 
ed to them in the Act. 


CHAPTER II 

No Objection Certificate 

3. Application for "No objection certificate — (1) No 
person under 18 years of age shall be entitled to obtain or 
held any licence under these rules. 

(2) Any person desirous of erecting a cinema or convert- 
ing existing premises into a cinema shall first make public his 
intention to do 90 by exhibiting a notice in Form “on a board 
on the proposed site in such 11. position that can be plainly 
seen from the public through fare upon which the site of 
such proposed cinema abuts. The notice shall be in the 
language of the locality. The notice on the Board shall be 
maintained on the site until the matter is decided by the 
Licensing Authority. 

The board shall be at least 1,20 meters x 090 meters in 
size and the notice shall be exhibited thereon in bold and 
clea-rly legible letters, 

(3) Such person shall also give a similar notice in writing 
to the Licensing Authority and make an application to the 
Licensing Authority for' the grant of a “No Objection Oertifi- 
cate*’ specifying therein whether the application is in respect 
of a permanent cinema, a louring cinema. The application 
shall be accompanied by a plan of the proposed site drawn 
to scale and shall clearly indicate the surrounding roads and 
buildings which exists uplo a distance of 183 meters in the 
case of a permanent or touring cinema and of t km. of the 
proposed site Schn ils. hospitals, temples or other places etc,* 
should be clearly indicated in the plan, 

4. Licensing Authority to invite objections.— On receipt of 
such notice, the Licensing Authority shall at the cost of the 
applicant notify the public of such intention in such manner 
by publication in newspapers or otherwise as he may deem 
fit for the purpose of inviting objections, A notification for 
inviting objections shall be issued by the Licensing Authority 
in Form “If 9 * and shall specify the period within which 
objections shall bo lodged with the Licensing Authority. 

The Licensing Authority shall also consult the Executive 
Engineer or the P.W.D. fftcer concerned in respect of the 
proposed site. 

5. Grant of "No Objection Certificate ”, — (1) Without pre- 
judice to the right of the Licensing Authority to refuse or 
grant a cinema licence under rules 100 and 101 the Licensing 
Authority may, grant a certificate to the applicant that there 
is no objection to the location of the cinema at the site noti- 
fied by the applicant under rule 3. 

(2) Validity of "No Objection Certificate”. — (1 ) The “No 
Objection Certificate shall be in Form “£>" and shall be 
valid, in the case of permanent cinemas for a period of two 
years from Ihc date of issue, for the pui-pose of commence- 
ment of the construction of the building or structure to be 
used as the cinema and in the case of touring cinemas, for 
a period of six months from the date of its issue for the pur- 
pose of putting up such cinema. , 

Provided that District Magistrate, may, for reasons to be 
recorded in writing extend, in any special case, the said period 
of two years, or as the case may be, six months for such 
further period as the circumstances of the case may seem 
to it to require. 

Explanation.^ — 1 , The l icensing Authority may, on an 
application being made to him in this behalf, dispense with 
the procedure in rules 3 and 4 in respect of the camp sites 
of a touring cinema other than the first camp site, if, in 
respect of such camp sites any touring cinema has been 
allowed to camp thereon a previous occasions. 


6, Fee for "No Objection Certificate ”. — There shall be levi- 
ed a fee of Rs. 50/- in respect of an application for a No 
Objection Certificate in respect of a* permanent cinema, a 
fec of Rs. 25/- for an application for a No Objection Certi- 
ficate issued in respect of touring cinema. The fee shall be 
paid to the Licensing Authority along woth the application 
under rule 3(3^ and will not be refunded whether the No 
Objection Certificate is granted or not. 

Explanation . — No fee shall be charged in respect of No 
Objection Certificate issued to touring cinemas in respect of 
camping sites other than the first. 


CHAPTER m 
Building 

7. Building Rules . — No cinema shall be licensed under 
these rules unless the cinema conforms to the rules laid down 
in this chapter. 

Provided that rules Nos. 8, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 19(1), .19 
(2), 20, 21, and 22 only shall apply in the case of touring 
cinemas. 

8. Structure to be fire-proof . — (1) All cinemas shall be 
enclosed within proper external or party walls of bricks, 
stone or concrete (plan, hollow or reinforced) and the floors, 
tiers and roof of the auditorium and all parts used by the 
public shall be constructed of fire-resisting materials. 

(1A) In the case of touring cinemas the external walls of 
the auditorium shall be constructed of flre-resistinp material. 
Such cinemas need not have roof over the auditorium. 

(2) Nothing in sub-yule (1) shall apply to premises in any 
area duly licensed for use for Cinematograph exhibition the 
coming into force of these rules. 

Provided that the ceiling in such premises, if not made of 
fire resisting material shall be replaced by fire resisting 
material. 

9. Construction. — (1) No cinema shall be constructed 
underneath or on the top of any other building. 

Provided that the Administrator may exempt the construc- 
tion of any cinema, from the provisions of this sub-rule, 
having regard to the safety, convenience and well being of 
the public. 

(2) No space shall be allowed under the floor of the audi- 
torium except in the case of where a sound-proof cinema is 
constructed on a cement concrete structure. 

Provided that where the whole cinema theatre or the audi- 
torium and the stage are constructed on cement concrete 
pillars, it shall be lawful to use the space underneath such 
theatre or the auditorium and the stage for parking of 
vehicles. 

(3) The floor, roof, private boxes, balconies, galleries, 
tiers, partitions, ventilators and every room, lobby, corridor, 
staircase and passage devoted to the use of the public shall 
be constructed of fire resisting materials. No wooden posts 
shall be allowed for the support of galleries and tires. 

(4) No soft wood or other inflammable wall linings, 
partitions, screens or barriers shall be used in any part of the 
auditorium and no cavities shall be left behind any linings. 

(5) The fronts of private boxes and each tier shall be 
formed of fire proof material, except the capping of boxes 
which may be of wood. 

(6) Nothing in this rule shall apply to premises duly 
licensed for use for Cinematograph exhibition before the 
coming into force of these rules, 

Provided that under tho auditorium and stage in such pre- 
mises where it exists, shall not be rented or used as godown? 
but may be used for storing cinema implements, such m 
advertisement boards, trollies, etc. if they are properh 
arranged and taken care of. 



145 


Part 111— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE pF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 23, 1978 (ASVINA 1, 1900) 


10. Height of tiers. — Where the first tier or balcony extends 
over any part of the auditorium the height between the floor 
of the auditorium and such tier or balcony shall not be at any 
part less than 3 meters the floor of the highest part of such 
tier or balcony and the lowest part of the ceiling over the 
same shall not be less than 3.5 meters. The height between 
the several tiers shall in no case be less than 2,5 metres, 

Provided that nothing in this rule shall apply to promises 
duly licensed for use for Cinematograph exhibition before the 
coming into force of these rules. 

11. Entrance and Exit to he on Public Thoroughfare 
Cinemas shall have a road frontage on the public thoroughfare 
upon which the site of such cinema abuts and in such front- 
age there shall be suitable means of entrance and exit for the 
public. In addition, entrances and exits shall be reserved for 
service in case of emergency opening on two separate and 
distinct passages leading either to the said public thorough- 
fare or to other suitable thoroughfare wnd such passages shall 
not be less than 1.2 metres in width. 

12. Exits, — (1) Two separate exits not opening on the 
same thoroughfare of public passage, shall be provided from 
the stage and from the auditorium floor and from every tier 
which accommodates not more than 500 individuals, and 
where the auditorium floor or any tier accommodation more 
than 500 individuals exit shall be provided at the rate of 
one for every 250 individuals and one for any less number 
in excess. Each of such exists shall be on not less than 1.5 
metres in width between the leaves of the door when open. 

(2) A common place of egress may serve as the exit for 
the floor of the auditorium and the first tier, provided its 
capacity be equal to the aggregate capacity prescribed by 
sub-rule (1) for the necessary outlets from such floor and 
tier. 

(3) For any auditorium floor or any tier which does not 
accommodate more than 300 individuals, two 1.2 metres 
exits shall be considered sufficient, 

(4) If any auditorium floor or any tier shall be divided 
into two or more parts, exjts as prescribed in sub-rule (1) 
shall be provided for each such part. 

(5) The licensee of the cinema shall not prevent the pub- 
lic to leave by any exit door. 

13. Seating, — (1) No part of the auditorium shall provide 
accommodation exclusive of passages, at a higher scale that 
20 persons per 0 square metres. 

(2) All seats in the auditorium, excepting those contained 
in private boxes shall be firmly secured to the floor. Chairs 
witn folding seats shall bo provided wherever required by the 
Licensing Authority. 

Where benches arc provided, the benches shall have aims 
suitably fixed so that each seat is separate. 

(3) In all cases there shall be an interval of at least 30 
centimetres between the back of one seat and front of the 
seat immediately behind measured between perpendiculars. 

(4) The distance between the screen and the front low 
of a seats should not be Jess than width of the screen itself. 

Provided that in respect, of cinema theatres where cinema- 
scope or some other similar modern technique is installed 
for screening of films, the distance to be left between the 
screen and the front row of scats should not be less than 3/4 
of the affective width, that is, the actual picture width on the 
screen of the films to be exhibited. Where however, 70 mm. 
pictures are to be screened, the distance to be left between 
the screen .and each seal in the very front row of seats, 
should not be less than 38 feet. 

(5) The seals in the auditorium should be arranged in the 
manner of an area, the concave edge of which faces the 
screen. 

(6) Nothing in sub-rule (1), sub-rule (2) so Tar as it 
relates to benched, sub-rule (3) and sub-rule (5) shall apply 
to premises in any area duly licensed for use for Cinemato- 
graph exhibition before the coming into force of these rules 
in that area, 


(7) Nohing in sub-rules (2), (3), (5) and (6) shall apply 
to touring cinemas. 

14. (utngways,—( l) A dear passage or gangway shall 
be formed at Lhc sides and down the centre of the scaling 
in every part of the auditorium in such manner that, no ocut 
shall be three or more metres distant from a passage or 
gangway measured in the line of seating. 

The central passage or gangway shall be at least 1.20 metres 
wide and these at the sides shall be at least 0.90 metres wide 
each : 

Provided that nothing in this sub-rule shall apply to pre- 
mises duly licensed for use for Cinematograph exhibition 
before the coming into force of these rules in that area. 

(2) Where possible, gradients or inclined planes shall be 
used instead of steps but no gradient or incline plane shall 
be ytepper than 4 in 10. 

15. Doors.— (1) All doorways for the use of the public 
shall be ai least 1.35 metres wide in the clear. All doors 
must open outwards to lie flush with the outside of the wall. 

(1A) Nothing in sub-rule (i) shafl apply to touring cine- 
mas and to premises duly licensed for use for Cinematograph 
exhibition before the coining into force of these rules as Jong 
as the mini mum space for exits, in accordance with the pro- 
visions ol rule 13, is provided for in such premises. 

(2) All doors used by the public may be kept closed but 
not bolted during a performance or exhibition, provided an 
attendant is placed j'q charge of each such door whose duty it 
shall be to throw open the door in case of emergency. 

16. Width of corridor etc , — No staircase, landing lobby, 
cprridor or passage, not being an internal passage between 
rows of scats, intended for use as an exit shall be less than 
1.5 metres wide and there shall be no recesses or projections 
in the walls of such passages, gangways or corridor within 
1.5 metres of the ground. 

Provided that nothing in this rule shall apply to premises 
duly licensed for use for Cinematograph exhibition before 
the coming into force of these rules. 

17. Staircases. — (1 ) All staircases shall be constructed 
.Entirely of the bricks, stone, cement or concrete with fire- 
resisting roof and ceiling avid shall have, solid square as dis- 
tinguished from s pandrill steps and landings of approved 
stone or of such other fire resisting material and construction 
as may be approved bv the licensing Authority with treads 
not less than 28 centimetres wide and with risers of not 
more than 15 centimetres high such lapping at least 2.5 
centimetres over the back edge of the steps below it in 
flights of not more than 15 or less than 3 steps. 

(2) The treads and risers of steps on each flight shall be 
of uniform widLh and height. 

(3) The several flights of such steps shall be properly sup- 
ported and enclosed to the satisfaction of the Licensing 
Authority. 

(4) No staircase shall have more than two flights of 15 
steps without a turn and the width of the landing between 
such flights shall be at least the same as the width of the 
staircase. 

(5) The floors of all landings shall not be less than 15 
centimetres thick, 

(6) Every staircase forming an exit form an upper gallery or 
tier ol the auditorium shall be enclosed on both sides with 
walls of brick or of fire-proof materials in the storeys 
through which it passes, and no openings shall be made in 
the auditorium except the one required for exit from the 
gallery or tier which it serves, provided that, staircases lead- 
ing to the first or lower gallery or tier may be left open on 
one sde, in which case the open side shall be provided by 
stout handrails and balustrades, but in no case shall stair* 
cases be left open on both sides. 

(7) All enclosed staircase shall have on both sides strong 
handrails firmly secured to the wall by strong metal brackets 
about. 7.5 centimetres, clear there from and about 90 centi- 
metres above the stairs but such handrails shall not run on 
level platforms and landing where the same is more in length 
than the width of the stairs. 



146 


THE GAZETTE OF I NIDI A, SEPTEMBER 23, 1978 (ASVINA 1, 1900) [Part HI— Sec. 5 


(8) Where the flight of steps returns upon itself the newel 
wall shall be chased so as to allow the handrails to turn 
without projecting over the landing. 

(9) Stairs turning at an angle shall, have a proper landing 
without winders being introduced at the turn* 

(10) There shall be no recesses or projection in the wall 
of such staircases within 1.5 metres of the floor and any 
fittings for lighting shall be at least 2.03 metres above the 
Stops or landing* 

(11) Nothing in this rule shall apply to premises in any 
area duly licensed for use for Cinematograph exhibition be- 
fore the coming into force of these rules in that area. 

18. Ventilation * — (1) The area of the window, door and 
ventilator openings shall viol be less than one-fifth of the 
total floor area and the windows and ventilators shall be of 
such dimensions, in such number and in such situation as 
the Public Work Department officer of Executive Engineer 
concerned shall specify, 

(2) Mechanical appliances such as exhaust fans shall be 
used to expel air at the rate of 14.15 cubic metres or more 
per person, at least three times in an hour. Provided that 
the Licensing Authority ip consultation with the Public 
Works Department Officer and the Health Department Officer 
concerned may relax the condition laid dovvp in this rule 
regarding he total door and window area, in the case of the 
cinemas where exhaust fans have been provided. 

19. Sanitary convenience . — ( 1 ) Every Cinema shall be pro- 
vided with sufficient and separate water closet or privy 
accommodation as also urinal accommodation for the use 6f 
males and females. 

(2) Where the auditorium consists of more than one floor, 
latrines and urinals at the above scales shall be provided for 
each floor, provided that minimum of one latrine and one 
urinal shall be provided on each floor, 

(3) Sub-rule (1) and (2) shall be applicable to touring 
cinemas subject lo the condition that the construction of 
urinals and latrines shall be of temporary nature and shall 
be such as may be approved 1 by the Public Works Depart- 
ment Officer and the Health Department Officer concerned. 

20. Enclosure for the Projector. — (1) Subject to Sub-rule 
(3) of the rules for Inc use of the cinematograph machine, 
there shall be provided in each permanent and quasi-perm a- 
nent cinema and independent permanent enclosure of suffi- 
cient dimensions to allow the operator to work freely. The 
enclosure shall be substantially constructed of fire resisting 
material or be lined with such materials* 

(2) The entrance to the enclosure shall be fitted with a 
closely-fitting door of fire resisting material suitably placed 
and opening outwards, and all openings, bushes and joints 
shall be so constructed and maintained as to prevent, so far 
as possible, the escape of any smoke into the auditorium. 
Tf means of ventilation are provided they shall not be allow- 
ed to communicate direct with the auditorium. 

(3) If a permanent enclosure is not available, the cinema- 
tograph machine shall be contained in an enclosure formed 
of a smoke-proof cabin constructed of sheet iron on sub- 
stantial frame work and fastened together securely* The 
cabin shall be of sufficient dimensions to allow the operator 
to work freely and the floor shall, if boarded, be covered 
with asbestos or other fire- resisting material of sufficient 
thickness approved by the Licensing Authority. 

(4) The enclosure shall be placed outside the cinema 
building, and where such cinemai consists of a temporary or 
quasi-pemianent structure the enclosure shall be at distance 
of at least 90 centimetres from such structure, Where the 
l icensing Authority is satisfied that any enclosures is fire- 
proof and separated from the auditorium by a fire-proof wall 
or is of opinion that it is impracticable or in the circums- 
tances unnecessary for securing safety that the enclosure 
should be outside the building or at a distance from the struc- 
ture, as the case may be, he may by express words in the 
licence dispense with such requirements, provided that a space 
of 61 centimetres in width at the sides and in the front of 
the enclosure and a space of 1.8 metres at the back in which 
the dbor is situated, shall be kept clear all round the cm 
closure. 


(5) Openings not exceeding three in number shall be per- 
mitted, in the front of the enclosure, the centre one of which 
must not exceed 20 centimetres square and these in each 
side 15 cente metres square. Provided that where two 
machines arc jointly used, openings not exceeding five in 
number shall be permitted, viz, two for the projectors, two 
for the operators and one for fixed slides. The projector 
openings must not exceed eight inches square and the other 
six inches square. Each openings shall be fitted with a 
screen of fire resisting meter ial capable of being actuated 
both from the inside and from the outside of the enclosure. 

(6) The necessary pipes and cables shall enter efficiently 
bushed openings, 

21. Rewinding room .— A separate room of fire-proof con- 
struction shall be provided for film rewinding and the room 
shall not be used for any other purpose except for storing the 
films not in use, It shall not, however, be necessary to have 
a separate room for rewinding films with acetate base. 

22* Width of Cinema Scree ik — The minimum width of the 
cinema screen shall be 3.05 metres. 

23. Sky lights . — All sky lights which may be liable to be 
broken shall be protected by stout galvanised iron wire 
guards securely fixed on the outside of such sky lights. 

24, Lighting Conductors.— Lighting conductors shall be 
provided m each cinema building. 


CHAPTER IV 
Electric Installation 

25. Sanction of the Chief Engineer Electrical Inspector 
concerned to be obtained for all electrical work . — -Before the 
installation of electric light or any electrical apparatus and 
before any alterations or additions to the electric installation 
are commenced, the sanction of the Electrical Inspector shall 
be obtained through the Licensing Authority and for this 
purpose plans showing the approximate position of lights, 
fans, etc. and specifications giving full particulars of the 
proposed work shell be forwarded to the Electrical Inspector 
to when complete drawing shall also be sent on completion 
of the work. 

Alter completion the work shall be passed by the Electrical 
Inspector or an Assistant Electrical Inspector. 

26. High Pressure . — In these rules the term “High Pres- 
sure” shall apply to all voltages above 650 volts. 

27. Inspection and Test . — Where an electric light, fan or 
other apparatus is installed in a cinema, it shall be on 
condition that the Electrical Inspector or his Assistant shall 
certify in writing to the Licensing Authority once In every 
twelve months that the system is in proper working order 
Inspection and tests may also be made by any officer appoint* 
ed by the Electrical Inspector from time to time, 

28. Main Circuits . — All Cinemas when lighted by electric 
lights shall have preferably three saparate and distinct mail: 
circuits and these circuits shall be : — 

(A) for the stage; 

(B and (C) for the auditorium, corridors, exits and othei 
parts of the house open to the public* 

The circuits (B) and (C) shall be so arranged that the 
lights in the Auditorium, corridors. Exits, etc. shall be as fm 
as possible equally distributed on the two circuits. 

The two circuits (E) and (C) shall not be combined ir 
one lilting nor shall ..the wires or leads for one circuits bt 
placed in the same casing or pipe as those of the other cir 
cuits. 

29. Sub-circuits. — (1) The main circuits A, B, C shall bt 
sub-divided as may be necessary and no sub-circuits shall be 
allowed to carry nxore than 5 amps, in the case of Auditoriur 
corridors, etc. or 20 amps, on 230 volts in the case of th< 
stage* Each sub-circuit shall start from a distributing board 

(2) The main leads, etc., for Circuit "A” shall, when 
possible be kept entirely on the stage side of the proscenfun 



147 


Part III— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 23, 1978 (ASVlNA 1, 1900) 


wall and those for “B" and “C” entirely on the auditorium 
side of that wall. 

(3) The lights inside and outside the premises shall be 
separate circuits. Circuits for fans, power and cooling pur- 
puses shall be kept distinct and separate from lighting cir- 
cuits. 

30. Co/Urol of Auditorium lights from stage. — If it is 
desired to control a portion of the lights in the Auditorium 
from the stage switch board (Circuit A) this will be per- 
mitted if a sufficient number of lights for safety purposes be 
maintained on circuits B and C for each portion of the Audi- 
torium entirely independent of the stage. The number , and 
position of such lights shall be subject to the approval of 
the Electrical Inspector. 

31. Control of Auditorium lights from Enclosure . — (J.) 
In the case of cinemas it may be permitted to control a port- 
tion of the lights in the Auditorium by switches placed in the 
enclosure, provided these switches are of totally closed metal 
clad type and associated with fuses of not more than 15 
amps, capacity at a pressure not exceeding 230 volts. The 
number and position of such switches shall bo subject to the 
approval of the Electrical Inspector or his Assistant. 

(2) Where fluorescent lights have been provided, a Thyra- 
lux or equivalent Thyralron shall be used for the purpose 
of dimming these fluorescent lights. 

32. A. C. 3 phase or D. C. 3 phase wire system. — Where 
supply is available on 3 phase A. C. system, the circuits A, 
B and C shall be supplied from three different phases, but 
where the supply is given on D. C. 3 wire system, the cir- 
cuits B and C shall be supplied from two different sides and 
all lights, fans and other electrical apparatus on the stage 
shall be connected to one side only in common with either 
B or C. 

33. Sources of supply. — (a) Supply from the three main 
circuit may be token from independent souiecs of supply, 
but in such casts special precaution must be taken to prevent 
accidental connection of different circuits. 

(b) Change-over switches may be used which have been 
previously approved by the Electrical Inspector. 

34. Auxiliary supply for Exit Signs. — (T) All Exit signs 
shall be fitted with an auxiliary bulb capable of properly 
illuminating the sign and those bulbs shall be fed from Accu- 
nniltors which shall be in a fully charged condition before 
the first admission of the public on any day, 

(2) All lights in the stai recuses, corridors, passages and 
Exit notices shall be kept a light during the whole time the 
public arc in the Cinema. 

35. Torches. — At least six electric torches of approved 
pattern shall be kepi, on the premises in working order 
throughout the year and these shall be distributed over the 
building so as to bo accessible to door keepers, etc. 

36. Unlicensed premises. — No unlicensed premises or 
parts of premises not included in the licence shall be supplied 
with electric current from the mains or apparatus used for 
the licensed premises. 

37. Gas and Water Pipes. — Gas and water pipes shall 
never form part of any electrical circuit. 

38. Dressing Rooms. — When cinema premises are used for 
a dramatic performance dressing rooms and other purls of 
the premises used by the staff shall be lighted to the satis- 
faction of the Electrical Inspector or his Assistant, 

39 ; Conductors. — (1) All conductors used within the 
building shall be of tinned copper having a conductivity equal 
to not Jess than 90 per cent of that of pure copper, a r\<l shall 
be so proportioned that the current density in any conductor 
shall not exceed 155-amps, per square centimetre, 

(2) Where a number of lights, as in the footlights, battens, 
etc., are supplied under control of the switch and protected 
by a single or double pole cut-out ns the case may be, the 
conductors shall be maintained throughout of such sections 
that will be effectually protected by the cut-outs against 
beating. 


40. Insulation. — (]) All conductors shall be properly in- 
sulated and the insulation resistances shall not be less than 
J Jl Magohms per Kilometre at 15.55°C, after one minute's 
electrification when tested at 400 volts and after 48 hours 
immersion in water. 

(2) If it is desired to use any other conductor or insula- 
tion than as specified in these Regulations, special permission 
shall be obtained from the Chief Engineer (Electrical) or 
the Electrical Inspector concerned, and no material shall be 
used which is not water-proof or which is nof protected by 
water-proof covering or which will soften at a temperature 
below 76.67’C. 

41. Conductors etc. special precautions. — No metal work 
in connection with the circuits shall be exposed or so fixed or 
constructed as to be liable to cause a short circuit. In all 
cases conductors conveying currents at high pressure inside 
buildings shall be specially insulated. They shall be enclosed 
in screw joined and earthed iron or steel tubing. Armoured 
cable may be used for the Supply Company’s service. 

42. Joints. — Joints in conductors shall be avoided as far 
as possible but when unavoidable they shall be electrically 
and mechanically perfect. Soldering fluids shall not be used 
in making such joints and no joints shall be made in metal 
conduit. 

43. Conductors fixing and Protection , — (1) All conduc- 
tors including lead covered cables where accessible to the 
public shall be efficiently protected from mechanical in- 
jury by an external armour of iron or steel. 

(2) Where conductors pass through or within walls, fire- 
proof floors or ceiling they shall be protected by iron pipes 
or by gazed sc tone ware or porcelain tubes and precautions 
shall be taken to prevent the possiblity or five or water pass- 
ing along the; course of the conductors. 

(3) Conductors must not be placed liable to be heated by 
jets, steam pipes or other appliances, 

(4) In special cases, or where necessary for protection from 
the depredations or rats, mice or other vermin, the wiring 
shall be enclosed in heavy gauge steel conduict. 

44. Petrol Engines. — No petrol driven engine shall be 
allowed for generating electric current unless it is fixed in a 
fire-proof compartment at least 3.05 metres from any other 
building. 

45. Wiring in casing. — Tf casing be used, if shall be of 
hard teak wood. Each conductor shall be laid in a separate 
groove, unless previous permission be obtained from the 
Chief Engineer Electrical or the Electrical Inspector concern- 
ed to vary this condition. In no circumstances shad wires of 
unlike polarity be laid in the same groove, nor wires of the 
same polarity belonging to the different circuits. A, B, or C, 
The cover shall be secured with screws. Casing shall not be 
used where it is liable to injury from weather or leakage of 
water, nor shall it be recessed into plaster. 

46. Metallic tubing for Mechamcal Protection.-- Where 
iron pipe or tube is used as a mechanical protection, it shall 
be bushed where necessary and properly bushed inspection 
boxes shall be used. All metallic tubing shall be efficiently 
earthed and shall be provided screw joints or other means of 
ensuring a good and permanent electrical connection which 
must be continuous with boxes and other fittings. 

47. Stage lighting. — When cinema premises are used for 
a dramatic performance special Care shall be taken that all 
works in connection with the lighting of the stage are carried 
out in as substantial a manner as possible preferably in heavy 
gauge screwed metal conduit. 

4S. Stage Swftch Board. — (1) When cinema premises are 
used for a dramatic performances a switch board fitted with 
the necessary switches, cut-outs and othiv J fittings for the 
control and regulation of the stage lighting shall be fixed in 
some convenient position overlooking the stage. 

(2) Connections shall be made where possible at the back 
of the board and there shall be a space of not less than 90 
centimetre between the wall and the back of the board or 
such larger space as may be necessary to ensure the thimbles 
and connections being at all times easily accessible, or as an 



148 


THE GAZETTE PF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 23, 1978 (ASVINA 1, 1900) [Part HI— Sec. 3 


alternative in the case of wires not large than 01 square centi- 
metre provision may be made by hinging the board for ren- 
dering the back of the board accessible. 

49. Footlights , etc. — When cinema premises are used for 
a dramatic performance lamps on battern, footlights, etc., 
shall be properly protected from everything liable to cause 
a short circuit and shall be protected by stuff guards so 
arranged that no scenery or other inflammable material can 
come in contract with the lamps. 

50. Enclosure . — (1) Within the enclosure no readily com- 
bustible material shall be used in connection with the any 
lamp in such a manner that it may come in contact with 
the lamps or conductors. The insulating material of an elec- 
tric cable including unprotected leads to lamps in the en- 
closure shall be covered with fire-resisting material. 

(2) There shall be no coils of slack electric cable within 
the enclosure. The leads to the cinematograph lamp shall, 
unless conveyed within a metal pipe or other suitable casing, 
be kept well apart both within and without the enclosure so 
that the course of each may be readily traced. , All live parts 
in the enclosure shall at all times be totally covered by in- 
sulating and fire proof material. 

51. Permissible current and pressure in Enclosure. — (1) No 
electric current at a higher pressure than 230 volts shall be 
supplied within the enclosure, and all wiring inside the en- 
closure shall be in heavy guage screwed conduit. 

(2) The cables for the cinematograph machine shall be 
taken as a separate circuit from the source of supply and 
there shall be an effecient linked iron-clad switch and fuse 
inserted at the point where the supply is taken and in addition 
an efficient iron-clad double pole switch shall be fitted in the 
cinematograph lamps circuit inside the enclosure. 

52. Resistance. — (1) Resistance flames shall be made en- 
tirely of fire resisting material land shall be so constructed and 
maintained that no outside part shall at any time become 
unduly heated. The resistances shall not be permitted to be- 
come so over-heated that a piece of dry newspaper placed 
in contact with any part would readily burn. 

(2) All resistances with the exception of the resistance for 
regulating purposes shall be placed outside the enclosure and 
preferably -outside the auditorium they shall be adequately 
protected by wire guards or other efficient means of pre- 
venting accidental contact. 

53. Plug Sockets for the Stage.-— The plug sockets for the 
stage shall be of bakelite or similar fire-proof material and 
of specially substantial construction. 

54. Leads to Battens , etc. — The leads to battens and 
moveable lengths the shall be specially guarded particularly at 
the points a where they join on to the battens, etc. and a 
sufficient length shall be allowed to prevent the leads receiv- 
ing any injury through any movement of the battens. This 
part of the leads shall be protected by stout canvas hose pro- 
perly fixed and the battens shall be suspended by at least three 
ropes. 

55. Arc Lamps. — (1) In any Cinema are lamps shall 
not be used in the Auditorium or in any part open to the 
public without permission from the Electrical Inspector. 
When they are used in any part of such premises special pre- 
cautions shall be taken to guard against danger from failin' 
glass and incandescent particles of carbon. All parts of the 
lamps, lanterns and fittings which are liable to be handled 
(except by the persons employed to handled them) shall be 
insulated from the frame work. 

(2) Any exposed portion of metal work of an arc lamp 
liable to become heated to a temperature sufficient to cause 
a conflagration by contact with scenery or other inflammable 
material shah b? protected by a wire guard. 

In no cas^ f Ji!! arc lamps be suspended by the conductors. 

56. Cut-Outs. — ( 1 ) All circuits shall be efficiently pro- 
tected by cut outs placed in positions easily accessible to the 
staff, but inaccessible to the public. All cut-outs shall be of 
such pattern and be fixed in such a position as to admit of 
quick replacement. 

(2) All cut-outs shall be so constructed that falling fused 
metal cannot cause a short circuit or an ignition. 


(3) All switches and cut-outs shall be so marked as to 
show clearly which circuit or lamp they control. 

(4) Ail switches, cut-outs, ceiling roses, wall sockets lamp- 
holders, etc, shall have non-mfiammable bases and covers. 
All switches and cut-out shall have sufficient length and 
breadth and shall be constructed so as to prevent the risk 
of formation of an arc. 

(5) All switches shall be of ample size to carry the cur- 
rent for winch they are intended without heating and shall 
be so constructed that they not remain in any position inter- 
mediate between the "on” and the "off” position so as to 
permit of an arc or short circuit. 

57. Fitting. — (1) All fittings shall be suspended in an 
approved manner and special care taken to avoid risk of the 
suspension failing from any cause. 

(2) Combined gas and electric fittings shall not be used. 

(3) Any electric light pendants or brackets in the Audi- 
torium and front of the house generally shall be at least 2.5 
metres above the floor to the lowest projecting part of the 
fittings. No electrical fitting or apparatus of any description 
shall be so fixed or arranged as to interfere at any time with 
the proper working of the safety curtain. 

58. Switch and Fuse Boards . — (1) All switch and fuse 
boards which are not fitted with the front connections shall 
be so mounted as to give instant and easy access to the con- 
nection at the back ot the board and shall be provided with 
dividing strips between poles both at the back and in front 
and proper iock-up cases with glass or metal fronts. The 
glass (unless of adequate thickness) shall be protected with 
a wire guards or alternatively boxes with lids and sides ren- 
dered fire-proof by asbestos sheeting may be used. / 

(2) Switch and fuse boards shall be fixed in accessible 
places where they will not obstruct any passage or exit. 

59. Generating plant . — Where the supply of current is 
derived from special plant on the premises, such plant must 
in all cases be approved by the Electrical Inspector. 

60. Boilers , Gas Engines , etc . — (1) Boilers steam engines, 
gas engines and dynamos when used for the supply of electri- 
city to such premises shall be placed in such position as shall 
be sanctioned by the Electrical Inspector to Government. All 
necessary provisions shall be made for keeping the tempera- 
ture of the engine rooms within proper limit. 

(2) Oil gas engines shall be placed in buildings ade- 
quately and continuously ventilated so that no explosive mix- 
ture of gas can accumulate. 

61. Accumulators . — Accumulators shall be placed in 
rooms adequately ventilated to outside air. These rooms 
shall be of fire-proof construction with fire-resisting doors 
and shall be used for no other purpose. 

62. Transforming and Converting Machinery . — (1) Trans- 
forming and converting machinery with the controlling 
switches and cut-outs shall be placed in a fire-proof and 
water-proof structure, adequately ventilated to the outside air, 
properly lighted and accessible to the management and shall 
be used for no other purpose. 

(2) No transformer which under normal conditions of 
load heats to above 130 F shall be used and the transformer 
circuits shall be so aranged that in no circumstances may a 
contact between the primary and secondary coils be estab- 
lished. 

63. High Voltage. — Where the primary cuttent is of high 
voltage no part of such apparatus or the control therefore 
shall be accessible to any body except the person in charge of 
its maintenance. 

64. Earthing of Covers . — The metallic covers of all trans- 
formers, switches and other electrical apparatus shall be 
efficiently connected to earth. 

65. Insulation Resistance . — The insulation resistance of a 
system of distribution shall be such that the greatest leakage 
from any conductor to earth, when all branches are switched 
on, shall not exceed 1 /5000th part of total current required, 
the test being made at approximately double the usual work- 
ing pressure, provided that this rule shall not be held to 
justify a lower- insulation resistance than 10,000 ohms. 



149 


Part III— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 23, 1978 (ASVINA 1, 1900) 


66. Motors, etc . — All motors and electrical apparatus 
shall, if permitted, be subject to special conditions, but 
electric fans and similar motors not taking more than 300 
watts may be used, if separately wired, from fuses on a pro- 
per distributing board. 

67. Plan of wiring : — A framed diagram indicating clearly 
the arrangement of all circuits and sub-circuits of the electri- 
cal installation, the position of distribution boards and the 
size of cables shall be displayed in the premises and shall 
be kept upto date. 

68. Temporary lighting. — (1) In all cases in which it is 
desired to install temporary lighting seven days notice shall 
be given to the Electrical Inspector in writing before it is 
desired to commence the work. 

(2) Wires and cables shall be adequately and firmly fixed 
and shall be similar to the wires already specified in these 
regulations and in all cases where the wires are within reach 
of the public they shall be efficiently protected from mechani- 
cal injury by an armour of iron or steel. 

(3) All joints shall be soldered and taped if used for 
more than one week and if used less than a week, the wire 
shall be soldered if larger than (6 square millimetres) or its 
equivalent. In either case the joints in portable fitting and 
special appliances shall be taped. 

(4) All temporary work shall be immediately removed 
when no longer required for the purpose for which it was 
installed. In the case of temporary work on the stage, all 
connections to the permanent installation shall be removed 
immediately after the performance in which they are used, 
unless permission be obtained to the countrary. Such special 
conditions as may be requisite in each case will be attached 
to the consent of the Electrical Inspector to the use of tem- 
porary electric work. 

69. Safety Curtain. — Whenever in cinema premises which 
are used for a dramatic performance the safety curtain is 
lowered all lights in Auditorium etc. shall be immediately 
lighted. 

70. Relaxation by Electrical Inspector. — The electrical 

installation in cinemas shall be carried out to the satisfaction 
of the Electrical Inspector who may, in \i il fcvomm. 'l 
to the Licensing Authority that any of the <'■ <»!' ,(■ • 

regulations may be relaxed to such extent and subject to 
such conditions as he may consider expedient. 

71. Shock Treatment Instructions and Insulated Gloves . — 
Instructions both in' English and in the local languages of the 
district for the restoration of persons suffering from electric 
shock shall be affixed in a conspicuous place and at least one 
pair of India rubber gloves in good order shall be provided 
for use of the electricians. 

72. Miscellaneous. — All main switches, fuses etc., which 
are the property of the Electric Supply Co., must be distin- 
guished by red colour and every apparatus which is to be 
operated by authorised persons only must be made completely 
inaccessible to the public. 

73. Operators — The electrical plant and projecting ap- 
paratus shall be in the hands of qualified persons who shall 
be nominated in writing for this purpose bv licensee of the 
cinema and such nomination shall be subject to the approval 
of the Electrical Inspector (or the Assistant Electrical Ins- 
pector concerned). Provided that persons holding a diploma 
in cinema-proiection course, awarded by the State Council 
of Technical Education of Bombay State (before 1st March. 
1963 and after that date by the State Council of Technical 
Education of Guajarat State) shall be deemed as qualified 
persons for the purpose of this rule. The electrical installa- 
tion shall be incharge of a properlv qualified person class-II 
Wireman and his name and qualifications shall be notified 
to the Electrical Inspector or the Assistant Flectrical Inspec- 
tor concerned for approval. 

CHAPTER V 

PRECAUTIONS AGAINST FlRE 

74. Tanks. — In every permanent or auasi-permanent 
Cinema there shall be provided on the top of the nrescenium 
wall or in some other place to be approved by the Public 


Works Department Officer concerned two cisterns which shall 
be kept always filled with water. Each of the cisterns shall 
be capable of containing at least 11.35 litres of water for 
every 100 individuals of the public to be accommodated in 
the Cinema. These cisterns shall be fitted with an outside 
indicator suitable placed X so as to show clearly the depth 
of water therein, and the water must be kept clean and free 
from sediment and covered over with properly fitting covers 
so as to be mosquito proof and the cisterns shall be cleaned 
once every year. 

Provided that nothing in this rule shall apply to tourin- 
cinemas and to premises in any area duly licensed for use for 
Cinematograph exhibition before the coming into force of 
these rules in that area if such premises are situated in places 
where there is sufficient water supply which can be used for 
the purpose of extinguishing fire. 

75. Fire-buckets. — (1) Fire buckets of approved design 
with a conical base shall be provided in such number as the 
Licensing Authority may direct, and shall be kept at all times 
full of water which shall be changed regularly twice every 
week. A pinch of lime shall be added to such water to 
prevent the breeding of mosquitos. Buckets of dust or dry 
sand shall also be provided in such numbers as the Licensing 
Authority may direct and the attention of the Public shall 
be drawn to the water and sand buckets of placards legibly 
painted and fixed immediately above them. 

Provided that in respect of premises in any area duly licens- 
ed for use for cinematograph exhibition before the coming into 
force of these rules in that area and in respect of touring 
cinemas, the existing fire buckets with round bottom, may be 
used but shall be replaced by fire buckets with a conical base 
whenever they are next replaced. 

(2) At least one bucket filled with dry sand must be kept 
in some accessible position on the stage in readiness for use 
in dealing with an electric fire. 

76. Chemical Extinguishers . — (1) Chemical extinguishers 
of an approved type and of at least 13.5 litres capacity shall 
be provided in such numbers as the Licensing Authority wav 
from time to time direct and shall be placed on brackets 
four feet from the ground. Directions for using them should 
in all cases be prominently painted on the extinguisher or on 
a card placed over the extinguisher and the attention of the 
public shall be directed to them by placards legibly printed 
or painted and fixed immediately above them. 

Provided that nothing in this rule shall applv to be tour- 
ing cipemas and to premises in any area duly licensed for use 
for cinematograph exhibition before the coming into force 
of these rules in that area. 

(2) Chemical extinguishers shall be renewed or well clean- 
ed and recharged every 12 months, a record of which should 
be kept for inspection. 

77. Fire extinguishers etc., for the Enclosure. — Two pres- 
sure-type fire extinguisher, two buckets of water, one bucket 
of sand and a blanket shall always be kept inside the en- 
closure. A large sponge shall be kept in one of the buckets 
of water and one fire extinguisher shall also be kept immedia- 
tely outside the enclosure. 

78,. ExH Signs . — (1) All exits and other doors or open- 
mov; intended to.be used for the purpose of exits shall be 
indicated by notices in the language understood in the loca- 
lly ln letters 17.5 centimetres long, upon a black ground 

minted on or above the doors at least (a) 2.05 metres above 
the floor. 

(2) The words “No Exit” fn the language understood in 
the locality sMP ^ nainted upon all doors in sight 
of the audience which do not lead to exits. 

(3) All electric “Exit” signs shall be fitted with an auxi- 
liary bulb capable of properlv illuminating the sign, the 
bulbs shall be fed from dry batteries, or accumulators which 
shall be kept in proper working order, the switch of the 
auxiliary bnlbs should be fixed in an easily accessible position 
in the corridor and not inside the auditorium. 

(4) Nothing in this rule shall applv to touring cinema 
and to premises in npv area duly licensed for use for Cinema- 
tograph exhibition before the coming into force of these 



150 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 23, 1978 (AS VINA 1, 1900) [Part III— Sec, 3 


rules, in that area ro long as “Exit" and “No Exit” signs in 
such premises are clearly visible and easily legible. 

79. Curtains — All curtains covering doors, passages, etc., 
shall be hung so as not to trail on the floor. 

80. Special rules for the Enclosure etc : — (1) No unneces- 
sary combustible material shall be allowed within the enclo- 
sure and as far as possible all necessary combustible material, 
film, etc., when not in use, shall be kept in fire proof recep- 
tacles suitable for the purpose. 

(2) No smoking shall at any time be permitted within the 
enclosure and a placard shall be prominently exhibited both 
inside and outside the enclosure the effect that smoking is 
prohibited. 

(3) The enclosure and the engine room if any shall be 
inaccessible to the public. 

(4) No smoking shall be allowed in the rewinding room 
and films which are not in use must be stored in metal con- 
tainers and no combustible matter shall be kept inside the 
rewinding room. 

81. Cinematograph Machine . — The Cinematograph ma- 
chine shall be placed on firm supports of fire-resisting construc- 
tion and it shall be provided with metal shutter between the 
film gate and the source of light. The shutter shall automati- 
cally drop in the event of any accident to the Cinematograph 
machine, or stoppage of the film and shall automatically rise 
when the film is in motion for the purpose of projection. 

(2) The film gate shall be of massive construction and 
provided with ample heat radiating surface and the passage 
for the film shall be sufficiently narrow to prevent flame 
travelling upwards or downwards from the light opening, 

82. Film, Boxes, Spool etc. — (1) All cinematograph pro- 
jectors shall be fitted with two film boxes of non-inflammable 
material and of substantial construction to and from which 
the films shall be made to travel. Such boxes which must 
be of approved size and construction, shall be made to close in 
such manner as to prevent the ingress of fire and shall be 
fitted with a film slot so constructed as to prevent the passage 
of flame to the interior of the film box. 

(2) Spools shall be either chain or gear driven and films 
shall be wound upon spools so that the wound film shall not 
at any time reach or project, beyond the edges of the flanges 
of the spools. 

(3) It shall not be necessary to have metal casing for 
spools in case of projectors using films with acetate base. 

83. Clocks room. — (1) Where clock rooms are provided 
they shall be situated that the use of them shall not obstruct 
the free use of any exit. 

(2) No corridor shall be used as a clock room and no 
pegs for hanging hats, clocks, etc. shall be allowed therein 
nor shall any corridor be used for storage purpose or for 
any purpose whatever except for exit and entrnnee from and 
to the auditorium. 

84. Telephone. — Tn places where there is a public tele- 
phone the Cinema building shall be connected by telephone 
with the nearest Fire Brigade Station in that place. 

85. Lighting. T) All lighting shall be provided by electri- 
city. No gas. acetylene, oil or other lamps shall be used for 
lighting the Cinema or any part thereof. 

(2) Every portion of the Cinema devoted to the use of 
or accommodation of the public and also all outlets teadinv 
outside the cinema including the corridors shall be well and 
nronerly lighted during every perfognance and the same shall 
br lighted until the entire public have left the cinema after 
the performance is over. 


CHAPTER VI 

Permission for mrrtmNG a Cinema 

86. Permission for building . — No person shall put un any 
building or structure or convert existing premises for being 
u*cd as a cinema except with the previous permission in Writ- 
ing of the Licensing Authority, 


87. Application for permission, — Any person desiring to 
put up a building or structure to be used as a Cinema shall 
make an application in writing to the Licensing Authority 
each such application shall be accompanied by a true copy 
of the “No Objection Certificate" issued by the Licensing 
Authority in respect of the site where the Cinema is proposed 
to be put up. 

88. Application to be accompanied by plans. — The appli- 
cation shall be accompanied by complete plans, elevations and 
sections of the proposed, Cinema and of all erections or 
buildings in connection therewith drawn correctly to scale 
of 1 cm. to a metre and by a block plan on a separate sheet 
showing the position of the proposed cinema in relation to 
any adjacent premises & to the public thoroughfare upon 
which the site of such proposed cinema abuts drawn to a 
scale of not less than 2 milimetre to a metre. The cardinal 
points shall be marked on such plans. All drawings shall be 
coloured to distinguish the material to be employed in the 
construction of buildings and erections. The width of all 
staircases and the No. of steps in each the width of corridors, 
gangways & doorways together with heights of any galleries 
or tries in the proposed Cinema and in any of the erections 
or buildings in connection therewith as arc more than one tier 
in height shall be indicated on such drawings, as well as the 
floor and roof, ventilation and the details of any electric 
installation. The thickness of the walls, nnd scantlings of 
the various materials used shall be clearly shown on such 
drawing by figured dimensions. 

The plans shall show the respective numbers of audience 
or spectators intended to be accommodated in the various 
parts of the proposed Cinema and the space to be assigned 
to each individual thereof and shall be accompanied by a 
specification of the works to be executed sufficiently describ- 
ing the material to be employed and the mode of construction 
to be adopted, All openings for ventilation shall be shown 
in the plans and described in the specification, The plan 
shall be prepared bv an authorised architect or n qualified 
engineer and shall bear a certificate under his signature to 
the effect that the design arc sound nnd stable. 

89. Plans to be approved by Public Works Department . — *> 
On receipt of the application and the plans the Licensing 
Authority jdjall forward the same to the Executive Engineer 
or other Public Works Department Officer concerned for ap- 
proval and the applicant shall be bound to carry out such 
reasonable additions and alterations In the plans as may 
be directed by the Executive Engineer or Public Works De- 
partment Officer concerned before the plans ore finally ap- 
proved by him. 

90. Permission to build. — After the plans are finally 
approved by the Executive Engineer or Public Works Depart- 
ment Officer concerned the Licensing Authority may grant 
permission in writing to the applicant to put up the Cinema 
in accord mice with the plans finally approved, provided the 
permission granted under these rules will not dispense with 
the necessity of obtaining the requisite sanction under the 
municipal Acts or any other law for the time being in force, 

91. Permission to be valid for two years.- — The applicant 
shall complete the construction of the cinema within a period 
of two years from the date of the permission or within such 
extended period as may be followed by the Licensing Autho- 
rity. 

92. Modification in the plans. — No modifications in the 
plans shall be made while in the course of construction un- 
less such modifi cations are approved by the Licensing Autho- 
rity in consultation with the Public Works Department Offi- 
cer concerned. 

93. Additions and alterations. — No additions or altera- 
tions shall be made to a Cinema except with the written 
permission of the Licensing Authority. 

94. Notice of additions and alterations. — A notice in 
writing of any intended structural addition to or alteration of 
any cinema shall be given to the Licensing Authority accom- 
panied by complete plans, elevations and section block plan 
and specification of new works proposed to be executed in the 
manner laid down by rule 91 and the notice shall describe 
clearly such intended additions or alterations. 

95. Inspection of Construction. — The Executive Engineer 
or any Public Works Department officer authorised by him 



Part III— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 23, 1978 (ASVINA 1, 1900) 


151 


may nt any time inspect a cinema theatre which is under 
construction with a view to satisfying himself that the con- 
struction is according to the approved plans and specifications, 

If any deviations are found the Public Works Department 
o Ulcer shall report the some to rHc Licensing Authority and 
also inform the owner. 

96. Power to refuse License. — The Licensing Authority 
may refuse to grant a license to operate a cinema, the build- 
ing of which has not been constructed according to approved 
plans and specification. 

97. Chapter not applicable to touring cinemas.- — The pro- 
visions of this chapter shall not apply to touring cinemas, 


CHAPTbR VI I 
Cinema Licence 

98. Cinema licence.— No places shall be opened or 
allowed to remain open, for use as cinema unless the person 
being the owner, tenant or occupier thereof shall have ob- 
tained a Cinema Licence therefor. 

99, Application for Cinema Licence, — The application for 
a Cinema licence shall be made to the licensing authority 
and shall contain a statement as to the nature and extent of 
the interest, of the applicant in the Cinema and shall also- 
indicate the name or names of manager or managers nomi- 
nated by the applicant as referred by rule 114 and also the 
names and addresses of the qualified electrician in charge of 
the electric installation and the name and address of the 
qualified operator of the cinematograph. The application 
shall accompanied by following documents 

(1) A true copy of the No objection certificate issued 
under rule 5. 

(2) A true copy of the building permission issued under 
rule 90. 

(3) A certificate from an authorised architect or a quali- 
fied engineer and conntcrsigned by the Executive Engineer or 
the P.W.D. Officer concerned to the effect that the construc- 
tion of the cinema is sound and in accordance with the re- 
quirements laid down in chapter II I and that all directions 
given or conditions specified by the Executive Engineer or 
the Public Works Department officer concerned have been 
complied with and that precautions against fire huve been 
taken as laid down in Chapter- V. 


nent cinema by the licencing authority may in his discretion 
permit a touring cinema to operate at a place where there is 
already a permanent or quasi-permanent cinema on occasions 
such as fairs and rnelas or when the louring cinema exhi- 
bits films of a kind different from those exhibited by non- 
touring cinemas c.g. educational films or where it caters for ft 
different, public. 

10L Power to refuse licence. — The Licensing Authority 
shall have absolute discretion in refusing a cinema licence 
if the cinema appears to him likely to cause obstruction, in- 
convenience, annoyance, risk, danger or damage to residents 
or passers by in trie vicinity of the Cinema. 

102. Death or disability of licensee. — If the licensee dies 
or become mentally incapable or otherwise disabled the per- 
son carrying on the business shall not be liable to any penalty 
for carrying on the business during such reasonable time as 
may be necessary to admit of his making an application for 
the renewal of the licence. 

103. Duration of licence.- — A permanent cinema may be 
licensed for any period not exceeding one year and n. quasi- 
permanent cinema or a touring cinema may be licensed for 
any period not exceeding six months. 

104. Renewal of licences . — The Licensing Authority may 
on application being made to him in that behalf renew the 
cinema licence for the requisite period subject to rule 103 
above. An application for the renewal of a licence shall be 
made in the manner laid down in rule 99 but it shall not 
be necessary to attach to the application for renewal the true 
copy of the No objection certificate and the true copy of 
the building permission unless specially required by the 
Licensing Authority. 

Provided that in the case of the touring cinemas and of 
permises duly licensed for use for cinematograph exhibition 
before the coming into force of these rules a certificate of 

the nature referred to in sub-rule (3) of rule 99 from the 

Executive Engineer or the Officer of the Public Works De- 
partment concerned in lieu of such certificate from an autho- 
rised architect or a qualified engineer, may be attached. 

Provided further that the total period of the original 
licence and further renewals there pf in the case of a touring 

cinema at any one place shall not' exceed two years. 

Provided further that the licence of a touring cinema at 
a place shall not be renewed, if in the meantime permanent 
cinema starts functioning at that place. 


(4) A certificate from the Electrical Inspector or the 
Assistant Electrical Inspector concerned to the effect that the 
electrical installation in the cinema is in order and has been 
inspected and passed by him and conforms to the require- 
ments of the rules under the Indian Electricity Act, 1910 and 
to the rules specified in chapter JV and rules 77, 78(3), 80, 
81, 82 and 85 in chapter V and that all directions given or 
conditions specified by Electrical Inspector or as the case may 
be the Assistant Electrical Inspector concerned have been 
complied with and that the electrical plant and the Projection 
Apparatus in is charge of qualified hands as required by rule 
73. 

(5) A certificate from the authority concerned that a tele- 
phone in working order has been duly installed in the Cinema. 

(6) Nothing in spb-rule (5) shall apply to touring 
Cinemas. 

(7) A certificate from any electric supply company or a 
licensed electrical contractor or from the Public Works De- 
partment officer concerned that lighting conductors have been 
duly provided in the cinema building; Such certificate shall 
state the actual resistance to earth found by Tegular test in 
the case of such lighting conductor, 

100. Grant of cinema licence. — The licensing authority on 
receipt of document and certificate referred 1o in rule 99 
being satisfied that all the necessary rules have been complied 
with may grant a licence for a cinema to the applicant on 
such terms and conditions and subject to such restrictions as 
the Licensing Authority may determine- The cinema licence 
shall be in form Il E’', Provided that a touring cinema licence 
shall not be valid beyond the district of issue and ordinarily 
touring cinema licences shall not be granted for 
places where there is already a permanent or a quasriperma- 
2 — 259[GI/78 


105, Fees.-—( 1 ) The fee for a licence or renewal of ft 
licence inclusive of the inspection by the Public Works 
Department Officer and the Health Department Officer shall 
bo as follow : — 

(a) for a permanent cinema — 


Number Licence fee for Licence fee fori 
of Seats a period not a period 

exceeding three exceeding three 
months l months but not 
exceeding [six 
months. 


Licence fee for a 
period exceeding 
six month but not 
exceeding one 
year 


Up to 200 Rs. 15 Rs. 30 

201 to 500 20 40 

501 and over 28 56 


Rs, 50 
75 
100 


Provided (hat where a certificate regarding the lighting 

conductors ns provided in sub-rule (7) of rules 99 has been 
obtained from a Public Works Department Officer, the licence 
fee payable under this clause shall be increased by Rs. 40; 

(h) fur a quasi-permanent or touring cinema— 

Number of s cats Licence fee for six months 

Rs. np. 

Upto 200 22 50 

201 to 500 30 00 

501 and over 37 50 



152 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 23, 1978 (ASVINA 1, 1900) [Part III— Sec. 3 


Provided that in the case of a touring cinema which changes 
its camp within two months from the date on which it was 
made the licence fee for the subsequent camp shall be half 
the rates mentioned in clause (b). 

(2) The fees for the inspection of electric installation shall 
be separately paid in accordance with rates notified under the 
Indian Electricity rules, 1937. 

(3) The fee for making any alteration or addition in a 
Cinema Licence shall be Re. 1 and the fee for a duplicate 
licence shall be Rs. 2. 

106. Application! for renewal to be made within one year. 

Aft application for the renewal of a cinema licence made 
more than one year after the date of the expirv of the pre- 
vious licence shall be treated as an application for a new 
licence and all the rules shall apply mutatis mutandis to this 
application as if it were an applicantion for a new licence. 


CHAPTER VIII 

Licence for Sale of Tickets etc. 

107. Licence for sale of tickets, etc— No person shall sell 
or keep or offer or expose for sale or cause to be sold or 
cause to be kept or exposed for sale any ticket of admission, 
pass or any other evidence of the right of admission to any 
cinema without having first obtained a licence for the 

form “F”* thC 1Censmg authorit y- The licence shall be in 

V ckets ’ etc - to , be sold only at the licensed booking 
«!ii r Eve # person holding a licence under rule 107 shall 
k ee P offer or expose for sale any ticket or pass or any 
other evidence for admission only at the booking office or 
offices as approved by the Licensing authority and 
specified in the licence and no change, in the location of 

n ,!S Sh f r made . exce P* with the previous permission 
in writing of the Licensing authority. 

Provided that the Licensing Authority may in the case of 

writinf tbe h °r °r !°l My 0ther sufficient reason permft ?n 
Ring the sale of tickets passes or any other evidence for 

P !h Ce t ? ther , tha “ the licensed booking offices 
or by person other than the licencee. 

-1® u/ nCeS Ti hcurs of sale 10 be n °Wed on a Board— 
he licensee shall cause to be affixed and displayed in cons- 

oSi° US n ma ” ner r m l he ? inema Premises or at the Booking 
Office, a price list showing the various rates charged for 

bv k him < for dl ^f ent a 13 ? 8 ** u hi u h are kept offered or exposed 

such ^all wifi b^ nd fr a t°^ the j lours of business during which 

cfft dnrinr h b n e ected no sa!e sha!! b e effected ex- 
cept during the hours notified. 

«vln° Pr ! Ce ,0 be P rinted on the ticket etc— Every licence 
" T ™ CaUS f to be Priced on the face of every tSet 

w kent offefJ VldenCe °L th / right of admission to be sold 
or Kept, offered or exposed for sale the price charged there- 

tim 6 P u IS ent( : rtamment ta,x ’ if any, and he shall not at any 
ckarge f°! any ^ch ticket, pass or evidence of the 
right of admission a price in excess to that printed thereon. 

HI. Records to be maintained and to be subject to insoec- 

tffin ffi fnfl 7 ^" 866 Sh , aU n0t at aI1 dmes keip and mffin- 
tmn in full and accurate sets of records showing sale of 

bv ke a S nohce h offi rateS ?" d prod . uce on demand for inspection 
- y a police officer of a rank not below that of a sub- 
mspetcor, stocks of tickets and registers of account. 

UR d*Nhf re ™ in Present— Lvexy person licensed 

,ad' r tbe Chapter shall be present at the Cinema at all 

aiS shali e fot h ^ Cin t e 'V 6 ? open to public for Wsiness 
and shall not absent himself therefrom, except with the per- 

Mr sha'! 0f he h n2 1C > nSlng A ,V th ° rity “dorsed on the liceSce. 
excent h iith tn 1 any - ° the [ person to act on his behalf 
doraed of th^n™ 5 ' 0 " ° f * he Li censi„g Authority en- 

113. Fees.- ( 1 ) A licence under rule 107 may be granted 
issue^^ Pen0d UJ3to December, follov/ing the date of 

suc ^ licence for a quasi-permanent cinema 
may be granted for any period not exceeding six months or 


upto 31st December following the date of issue of the 
licence, whichever is less. 

(2) The following fees shall be levied for a licence granted 
under rule 107. 

(3) If the licence is granted for a period exceeding a 
fortnight upto 31st December following the date of issue 
Rs. 15. 

(b) If the licence is granted for a period not exceeding a 
fortnight. Rs. 10. 

(c) If the licence is granted only for a day Rs. 5. 

Provided that in the case of a touring cinema subject to 
(b) and (c) above the fee for the ficence for the first camp 
in a district in the year shall be Rs. 15 and no fee shall 
be charged for subsequent camp in the same year within the 
same district. 

(3) The fee for a duplicate licence shall be Rs. 2 only. 


CHAPTER IX 
General 

114. Licensee or his nominee to be present. — Either the 
holder of the cinema licence or some person or some one of 
several persons whom the licensee has nominated as manager 
or managers and whose name or names have been entered 
as such in the licence, shall be present at the Cinema to which 
the licence applies during the whole time for which such 
premises are open to the public. 

115. Display of licences. — The licensees shall have the 
licence displayed prominently on the walls of the office of 
the cinema. 

116. Smoking, prohibited . — No person shall smoke and no 
holder of a cinema licence or his nominated manager or 
managers shall permit smoking in the auditorium during & 
performance. Such prohibition shall not apply to persons 
sitting in their cars in the premises of a drive -in- cinema. 

117. Spittoon. — The cinema shall be provided to the satis- 
faction of the licensing authority with a sufficient number of 
spittoons in suitable places for the use of the public. The 
spittoons shall contain a strong disinfectant and shall be 
emptied from time to time. Notices for using such spitoons 
shall be displayed in prominent parts of the cinema. 

118. Spitting prohibited. — No person shall at any time 
spit in any part of the cinema except in the spittoons pro- 
vided for that purpose. 

119. Hawking prohibited. — -No person shall, during a 
performance or exhibition or in the interval of the perfor- 
mance or exhibition and no licensee or his nominee shall 
during a performance or exhibition or in the interval of per- 
formance or exhibition allow any person to : — 

(i) Hawk in the auditorium or 

(ii) sell or supply any eatables or drinks to any mem- 
ber of the audience in the auditorium itself, or 

(iii) distribute or sell whether for consideration or not 
any article or thing to any member of the audi- 
ence in the auditorium itself. 

Provided that in the case of a drive-in-cinema, the licensing 
authority may permit such number of hawkers and subject to 
such conditions as may be specified in the licence. 

120. Overcrowding prohibited. — No licensee shall admit to 
any part of the auditorium a greater number of persons than 
the maximum number authorised in the licence to be accom- 
modated in such part and in the case of a drive-in-cinema, no 
licensee shall admit a greater number of motor cars than the 
maximum number authorised in the licence of such cinema. 

In order to ensure that this maximum is not exceeded and 
more particularly to facilitate checking by the Police at any 
time the licensee shall issue tickets bearing serial number and 
the date and the number of the performance on foils and 
counterfoils. After each performance the ticket books shall 
be marked “closed” on the last counterfoil issued. 



Part III— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 23, 1978 (ASV1NA 1, 1900) 


153 


121. Cleanliness. — The ltCbu-^ee shall at all times. keep the 
Cinema in a clean and sanitary condition. The doors and 
ihe walls up'o a height of 90 centimetres shall be washed with 
a strong disinfectant at least once a month. 

122. Duly of operators, etc. — The persons in charge of the 
projecting apparatus, electrical installation and plant and the 
engine room if any shnlt satisfy themselves before the com- 
mencement of each performance that the apparatus or plant 
in their respective charge is in proper working order. 

123. Cinema not to be used for any other purpose.' — No 
cinema premises shall be used for any purpose other than the 
exhibition of Cinematograph films except with the previous 
permission in writing of tne Licensing Authority. 

124. Slot machine prohibited. — No slot or amusement 
machine shall be operated on the premises of a cinema except 
with the written permission of the Licensing Authority provid- 
ed that no such permission shall be required for machines 
exclusively used for the sale of articles like sweets or ciga- 
rettes or for the recording of weight, 

125. Access to Inspecting Officers. — The licensee shall give 
free access to the cinema at all hours to the olliccrs mentioned 
below : — 

(i) The Licensing Authority or any officer nominated 
by him for the purpose of carrying out the duties of 
the Licensing Authority under the Act and rules and 
for checking that the provisions of the Act and the 
rules are being complied with; 

(ii) Any Police officer who is required by n general or 
special order of the Licensing authority or the Chief 
of Police to attend the same; and 

(iii) The Executive Engineer of the Division or the 
Public Works Department. Sub-Divisional Officer or 
the Public Works Department Electrical Inspector 
or his Assistant or the Officer of the Public Health 
Department for the purpose of seeing that the provi- 
sions of these rules arc being duly observed. 

126. Licences noi transferable. — A licence granted under 
these rules shall not be transferable but shall be personal for 
the benefit only of the pci’s on to whom it is granted and on 
the death of the licensee shall be deemed to be revoked. 

127. Licensee liable for the acts of his employees . — The 
licensee shall be responsible for all acts and omissions of his 
managers, servants or agents arising out of or in connection 
with the Cinema to which his licences relate, 

127, A. Exemptions to be conditional. — Notwithstanding 
anything herein before contained in these rules any relaxation 
of or exemption from any such rule in respect of premises in. 
any area duly licensed for use for Cinematograph exhibition 
before the coming into force of these rules in that area shall 
operate only if such premises have been constructed in 
accordance with the provisions of the rules under which they 
were licensed and so long as such premises are not renovated 
or otherwise substantially altered and upon such renovation 
or other alteration any such relaxation or exemption shall 
cease to operate and the rule shall apply to such premises as 
it applies to other premises. Tf any questjon arises whether 
the premises are or arc not renovated or substantially altered 
it shall be referred to the Licensing Authority and his deci- 
sion shall be final. 

127. B. The Administrator may for reasons to be recorded 
in writing and subject to such conditions and restrictions as 
it may impose permit, generally or in particular case, relaxa- 
tion or exemption from the operation of any of the rules con- 
tained in Chapter I to IX of these rules, 

127. C. Penalty for failing to comply with or contravening 
the provisions of rules. — Any person falling to comply with 
or contravening the privisions of any of these rules shall on 
conviction be punished with fine which may extend to one 
thousand rupees, 

CHAPTER X 

Suspension and Cancellation op Licences and 
Application for Exemptions 

128. Suspension or cancellation of licenses. — 0) The 
Licensing Authority may suspend or cancel any licence 


granted under these rules for contmvension of any of these 
rules provided that the Licensing authority shall give the 
licensee an opportunity to show cause before taking any 
action under this sub-rule. 

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-rule (1), the 
Cinema Licence shall he liable to immediate suspension or 
cancellation by the Licensing Authority if, in the opinion of 
the Licensing authority the appliances of the cinema for pro- 
tection against and for extinguishing fire are inadequate or in 
any way insufficient or in unsatisfactory condition. 

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-rules ( 1J) and 
(2) the Licensing authority may, in his absolute discretion, at 
any time cancel or suspend any licence granted under these 
rules and may direct the licensee to close the cinema either 
permanently or temporarily or direct him to comply with 
such directions and instructions that he may issue m order to 
prevent any obstruction, inconvenience, annoyance, risk 
danger or damage to the residents or passers-by in the vicinity 
or for the? maintenance of public safety and the prevention of 
disturbance in the Cinema and every licensee shall forthwith 
comply w ith any such directions or instructions given by the 
Licensing authority and if the licensee fails to comply with 
directions and instructions his licence shall be liable to imme- 
diate suspension or cancellation. 

129. Power to give directions during epidemics .' — ’Without 
prejudice to the provisions of rule 128, the Licensing autho- 
rity in consultation with the Chief Medical Officer if ally, if 
so advised, direct by a special notice 

• (a) a reduction in the scale if accommodation prescribed 
in rule 13. 

(b) the periodical disinfaction of premises which may 
include spraying and funigatuln and 

(c) the adoption of such other measures for better ven- 
tilation as may be specified in the notice; 

and the licensed shall be bound to forthwith comply with any 
direction on failure to do so, his licence shall be liable to 
instant suspension or conciliation. 

130, Presentation of application for exemption . — An appli- 
cation for an exemption under section 17 shall be addressed 
to the Secretary to the Administrate!', Dadra and Nagar 
Havel i and unless prevented by sufficient cause be made at 
least ten days, before the date of the proposed cinematograph 
exhibition, 

FORM A 

Notice under rule c of the Dadra and Nazar Haveli Cinema 
Rules « 1978 

Please lake notice that T son of 

age.-J. resident of village 

taluka distinct propose locating a perma- 
nent/ touring at. (name of village) taluka 

District on the land belonging to Shri 

admeasuring about . and bearing 

R S. No and bounded as under 

C.S. No No 

Notice is hereby given that any objection to the location of 
the said Cinema should be lodged with the District Magis- 
trate within such time as may be notified by him. 

FORM B 

Notice Under Ride 4 of the D&NH Cinematograph Rules 
1978 

Whereas Shri son of age. . . . 

resident of taluka district 

has applied to me for the grant of a “No Objection Certificate” 
for the location of a (permanent/touring cinema) at village 

- - - taluka district on the 

land of Shri and bearing R.S. No 

and bounded as under C.S. No Ward No 

Notice is hereby given that any person having any objection 
to the grnat of a .No Objection Certificate” as aforesaid 
should lodge his objection in writing with the undersigned by 
the day of 197 

District Magistrate of 

Licensing Authority. 



154 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 23, 1978 (ASVINA 1 , 1900) [Part III— Sec. 3 


FORM D 
(Rules 5) 

No Objection Certificate 

In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 5 of the Dadra 

and Nagar Haveli Cinematograph P.nles, 1978, I 

District Magistrate of do hereby grant 

this certificate that there is no objection to Shri 

son of resident of village taluka 

district locating a permanent 

cinema/touring cinema in the land belonging to Shri. -* 

. village taluka District 

The site where the cinema is to be located is specified 
below : — 

(Please give here the description of the site as in form A). 

This “No Objection Certificate” is valid for a period of two 
years from the date of its issue in the case of permanent 
cinema and six months from such date in the case of touring 
cinema for the purpose specified in rule 5(2) of the Dadra 
and Nagar Haveli Cinema Rules, 1978 unless the period of 
the validity thereof is extended by District Magistrate, Dadra 
and Nagar Haveli under the proviso to the said rule and if 
within such period or extended period, as the case may be, 
the construction of the proposed permanent cinema is not 
commenced or the touring cinema is not put up a fresh “No 
Objection Certificate” shall be necessary. 

Given under my hand this day of 

197 

District Magistrate of 

Licensing Authority 

FORM E 
(Rule 100) 

Licence for a Cinema 

Under the power vested in the under section 

District Magistrate 

11 of Cinematograph Act 1952 (37 of 1952), licence is 

hereby granted to Shri * son of 

Shri resident of 

District authorising him to use, cinema at 

Taluka District (more 

particularly described below) for giving exhibition by means 
of cinematograph subject nevertheless to the following further 
conditions and restrictions : 

(Here give the full description of cinema) 

Conditions and Restrictions 

L The licensee shall not exhibit or permit to be exhibited 
in the Cinema — (a) any film other than a film which has been 
certified by the board of Film Censoi's constituted under 
section 3 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (XXXVIT of 1952), 
as suitable for unrestricted public exhibition or for public 
exhibition restricted to adults and which, when exhibited, 
displays the prescribed mark of the Board, and has not been 
altered or tampered with any way since such mark was 
affixed thereto; 

(b) any film which has been certified by the board of film 
Censors as suitable for public exhibition restricted to adults, 
to any person who is not an adult; 

(c) any film contrary to any directions that may be issued 
fropf time to time in this behalf by the Administration under 
section 13(3) of the Act. 

EA The Licensee shall — 

(a) prominently exhibit at each public entrance of the 
premises, whenever the premises are open to the public, a 
notice indicating in tabular form and in clear bold letters and 
figures — 

(i) the title of each film, other than trail ors and advertise- 
ment films, to be shown on that day; 

(ii) the approximate time of commencement of each such 
film; 


(iii) whether each such film is suitable; 

(a) for unrestricted public exhibition and has received U U” 
certificate, or — 

(b) for public exhibition restricted fo adults and has 
received “A” certificate, 

(iv) whether persons who ate not adults will be admitted 
or not to the exhibition of the film. 

(b) indicate clearly the nature of any certificate received 
in respect of the film from the Central Board of Film Censors 
by the letter U U" or “A” as the case may be, in any advertise- 
ment of the film displayed at the premises, 

2. The licensee shall not exhibit, or permit to be exhibited, 
in the Cinema, any photograph picture or poster which depicts 
or represents or purports to represent a scene of shot which 
has been excised from any film under the orders of the afore- 
said Board of Film Censors or the Central Government. 

3. The licensee shall not exhibit or permit or cause to be 
exhibited at the said place any poster or picture which is a 
gross misrepresentation of the film itself and which is obscene. 

3, A. If for the purpose of advertising film which is being 
or proposed to be exhibited in the licensed premises, the 
licensee is found to be exhibiting or causing to be exhibited 
in any public place any obscene poster or picture and is con- 
victed under section 292 of the Indian Penal Code, the licence 
shall be liable to be cancelled. 

4. The licensee shall not exhibit or permit or cause to be 
exhibited in the said place any slide which displays any 
advertisement which Is of an indecent or obscene nature or 
the publication of which is prohibited under any law for the 
time being in force, 

4. A. The licensee shall not supply or cause to be supplied 
any Polaroid glasses to any person for the purpose of viewing 
any film unless such glasses if already used for such purpose, 
are sterilized before they are so supplied. 

5. The licensee shall not store inflammable film in quantity 
exceeding 90.7 Kilograms at the said place unless a separate 
licence for the storage of such film has been obtained by him 
from the Chief Inspector of Explosive in India as required b\ 
the Cinematograph film rules, 1948, 

6. Film shall, be stored — 

(i) j'q a storage shed constructed of suitable uninflammable 
materials, the doors and ventilators may be of wood and shall 
open outwards or. 

(ii.) in a tent, placed on private ground and separated by a 
distance of not Jess than 7.5 metres from any dwelling house 
other building high ways, street or public place, 

7. The storage shed, shall not form part of or, be attached 
to any building in which any person resides or works or 
where persons assemble for any purpose unless it is separated 
therefrom by a substantial floor or partition. 

8. The storage shed, if in any building shall not be situated 
under any staircase or under any other means of exit likely 
to be required to be used for escape in case of fire. 

9. The storage shall be adequately ventilated near the 
ground level and also near or in the roof. All ventilators 
shall be fitted with metal grids or similar suitable protection 
on Ihe outside face of the wall and a layer of No, 16 mesh 
brass or other non-corroding metal wire gauze on the inside 
face of the wall. 

10. Film shall be kept in a securely closed fire-resisting 
receptacle, 

11. The storage shed or lent shall not be used for any 
other purpose. 

12. (i) all operations connected with examination, repair- 
ing, cleaning, waxing and rewinding of film shall only be 
carried out in the examination room which shall not be 
used for any other purpose and shall be separated from the 
storage shed by a partition 



155 


Part III— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 23, 1978 (ASVINA 1, 1900) 


(ii) the examination room shall be constructed of hre- 
rcsistmg materials only and well ventilated to the outside 
air. 

(iii) Not more than 2 rolls of film only shall be opened 
for examination at any one time per examiner and not more 
than 100 rolls in all shall be under examination or repair 
at any one time. 

13. All film waste and scrap in the examination room shall 
be placed immediately in a strong metal receptacle fitted 
with a tight hinged lid and marked “Film Waste” and kept 
under water until disposed of. The contents of the u ruins 
shall be disposed of at frequent intervals by burning under 
adequate precautions or in such other manner as may be 
prescribed by the licensing authority. 

14. No alterations, shall be carried out in the storage shed 
or examination room without the previous sanction in writing 
of the licensing authority. Such alteration so sanctioned shall 
be shown on an amended plant to be attached to this licence- 

15. The furniture and other articles shall be so arranged as 
to alford free agress to persons in the room in the event of 
lire. 

16. There shall be kept posted up in large characters in 
the room (i) full instructions as to the action to be taken 
in case of fire, & (ii) full directions as to the means of es- 
cape from the room in case of fire. 

17. No two sheds for the storage of film shall adjoin each 
other or be in the same building. 

18. Adequate precautions shall at all times be taken lor 
the prevention of accidents by fire or explosion and no smok- 
ing, fire or light or articles capable ot causing fire to film 
shall be permitted at any time within the licensed premises. 

19. Free access to the licensed premises shall be given at 
all reasonable times to an Inspector and every facility shall 
be afford to such Inspector for ascertaining that the rules and 
conditions are duly observed. 

20. Any accident, hre or explosion occur mg within the 
licensed premises wnich is attended with loss of human life 
or serious injury to persons or property shall be reported 
immediately to the nearest Magistrate or to the Officcr-in- 
chargo of nearest Police Station and by telegraph or telephone 
where such means of communication are available. 

21. If the licensing authority calls upon the holder of a 
licence by a notice in writing to execute any repairs to the 
licensed premises which arc in the opinion of such authority 
necessary for the safety of the premises the holder of a 
licence shall execute the repairs within such period, not being 
less than one week from the date of receipt of notice, as 
may be fixed by the notice. 

22. The licensee shall not continue any performance or 
exhibition of any film by means of a cinematograph, after 
1.00 am. 

23. The licensee shall comply with such other conditions 
as may be prescribed from time to time by rules. 

24. The licensee shall not admit in the Cinema Auditorium 
or in any part or division thereof a larger number of persons 
than that indicated below : — 

Here enter name of the The maximum number of person 

division of part of the that shall be admitted in the 

Auditorium. division or part of Auditorium. 

24, A In case of touring cinemas, the loud speakers shall 
be kept at such a tone that the noise does not disturb the 
peace of surrounding areas. 

25. This licence is granted subject to the provisions of the 
Cinematograph Act, 1952, and the Dadra and Nngar Haveli 
Cinema rules, 1978 and the conditions detailed on the reverse 
of this licence, and is liable to suspension or cancellation for 
breach of any of the said provisions or conditions Breach of 
the provisions of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 and the Dadra 
and Nagar Haveli Cinema rules, 1978 or any conditions of 
this licence Is punishable under section 7 of the Act. 


26. This licence is not transferable but is personal for the 
benefit of the licensee mentioned above and in case the licence 
transfer the same to any person the licence is liable to be 
suspended or cancelled. 

27. The persons nominated as Managers under Rule 114 

of the Dadra and Nagar Haveli Cinema rules are — 

% 

1. Shri son of 

resident of taluka 

district 

2. Shri son of 

resident of taluka 

district 

28. The licence is valid till the day of ...... 

197 

29. A lee of Rs has been received in 

respect of this licence. 

Given under my hand and seal this 

day of 197 

Licensing authority. 

Renewals 

Date of renewal valid till fee paid Signature of L.A. 

FORM F 
(Rule 107) 

Licence to sell or keep for sale or offer or expose for sale 
any ticket of admission, pass or other evidence of the right 
of admission to a cinema. 

Under rule 107 of the Dadra and Nagar Haveli Cinema 

Rules, 1978 licence is hereby granted to Shri 

son of resident of , 

district to sell or keep for sale or 

offer or expose for sale any ticket of admission, pass or other 
evidence or the ri$ht of admission to tho Permanent cinema/ 

quasi- permanent cinema /touring cinema known as 

and situated at district 

The licensee shall sell, offer, keep or expose for sale any 
ticket of admission, pass or other evidence of the right of 
admission to the above cinema only at the following places ; 

1 . 

2 . 

3. 

3. This licence is valid till the day of ...... 

197 and a fee of Rs 

due for the same has been paid by the licensee. 

This licence is granted or renewed subject to the provisions 
of the Dadra & Nagar Haveli Cinema Rules, 1978 and is 
liable to be suspended or cancelled for breach of any of 
the provisions of tho said rules, and any breach of the pro- 
visions of the said rules is punishable under the provisions 
of sec. 14 of the Act* 

Given under my hand and seal, this..... 


day of 197 

SEAL Licensing Authority 


[Reverse of Form] 

Memorandum of Renewal 

Date of Renewal Date upto which valid Fee paid Signature of 

L* Authority. 


ENDORSEMENT UNDER RULE 112. 
By order of the Administrator. 

JANAK JUNEJA, 
Secretary to the Administrator, 
Dadra and Nagar Haveli 
SILVASSA. 


PRINTED BY THE MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, FARIDABAD 
AND PUBLISHED BY THE CONTROLLER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1978 




