REGISTERED No . D . 2.28 


1-2 -58 


The Eazette 


of India 


पत्यास जम 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


_ 


A 


No. 5] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGHA 12, 1879 


= = = = = = = = - = - = 

NOTICE 
The undermentioned Gazeties of India Extraordinary were published upto the 22nd January 
1958 : 

- 
Issuc No, and date 

Issued by 

Subject 
No. 


25 


S. R . O . 252, dated the 15th 

January 1958. 


Ministry of Steel , 

Mincs and Fuel. 


Acquiring of land specified 

in the schedules thercin for the 
purpose of the development of 
State Collieries . 


Ditto . 


| S .R . O . 253 , dated the 15th 
[ January 1958 , 


Notice of intention to prospect 

for coal from the land mei 
tioned in the schedule there 


in , 


Ditto . 


| S. R O . 254 , dated the 15th 

January 1958 . 


Notice of intention to prospect 

for coal from the land nien 
tioned in the schedule there 
in . 


Ditto . 


S . R . O , 255 , dated the 15th 

January 1958 . 


| 


Notice of intention to prospect 
for coal from the land men 
tioned in the schedule there 
in . 


S . R .O . 256 , datcd tlie 15th 

January , 1958, 


Ditto . 


1 


Notice of intention to prospect 

for coal from the land inen 
tioned in the schcdule there 
in . 


Ditto . 


| S . R . O . 257, dated the 15th 
| January 1958 , 


Notice of inlention to prospect 

for coal from the land men 
tioned in the schedule there 


in 


| S.R .P . 258 , dated the 15th 

January 1958 . 


Ditto . 


Notice of intention to prospect 

for coal froin the land men 
tioned in the schedule there 
in , 


Ditto . 


S . R . O . 259, daled the 15th 

January 1998 . 


Notice of intention to prospect 

for coal froiti the land incr 
tiuncd in the schedule there 


- 


| 


in . 


- 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


- - 


( 201 ) 


202 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1, 1958 /MAGHA 12, 1879 


[PART. II 

- D 


Issue 
No. 


No. and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


26 | S . R . O . 260 , dated the 16th 

January 1958 . 


Ministry of Finance. | Draft of the Customs and Excise 

Dutics Drawback (Linolei m ) 

Rules , 1958 . 
Ditto . 

Draft of the Customs and Excisc 

Duties Drawback ( Trailers) 
Rules , 1958 . 


S . R . O , 261, dated the 16th 

January 1958. 


Certification of films to be of the 

description specified therein . 


27 | S . R . O . 262, dated the 17th | Ministry of Infor - 
January 1958 . 

mation and Broad 

casting 
27- A S. R . O . 262 - A , dated the 16th | Ministry of Law 

January 1958 . 


The Constitution (Application to 

Jammu and Kashmir ) Amend 
ment Order, 1958 (C . O . 
55 ) . 


28 | S . R . O . 263, dated the lath | Ministry of Food and 
January 1958 . 

Agriculture . 


29 | S . R . O . 264 , dated the 18th 

| January 1958 . 


Ditto . 


Amendment made in the Madras 
Rice Mills Licensing Order 

1955 . 
Delegation of powers to the 

Government of Kerala in re 
lation to stocks of ricc , under 
the Essential Commodities Act , 
1955 . 


30 


31 


S . R . O . 265, dated thc uith Election Commis - | Election Petition No . 230 of 
January 1958 . 

sion , India . 

1957. 
S. R .O . 266 , dated the 18th | Ministry of Finance , Nomination of Shri H . M . Patet 
January 1958 . 

to be a Director of the Central 
Board of the Reserve Bank 
of India . 


32 | S . R . O . 267, dared the 18th Election Commis - List of contesting candidates for 
January 1958 . 

sion , India . 

election to the Iłouse of the 
People from the Talna Par 

liamentary Constituency . 
33 S .R . O . 268 , dated the 8th Jan Ditto . 

Election Petition No. 466 of 1957. 
tary 1958 . 
S . R . O . 269 , dated the 21st Ministry of Educa - Appointment of date on which 
January 1958 . 

tion and Scientific the Copyright Act, 1957 
Research . 

shall come into force . 
S . R . O . 270, dated the 2180 Ditto. 

The Copyright Rules , 1958 . 
January 1958. 
S . R . O . 271 , dated the 2180 Ditto . 

The International Copyright 
January 1958 . 

Order, 1958 . 
S .R . O . 272 , dated the 21st Ditto . 

Copyright ( International Orga 
January 1958 . 

nisations ) Order , 1958. 
35 S .R . O . 273, dated the 21st Ministry of Finance. Draft of the Customs Duties 
January 1958 . 

Drawback (Umbrella Ribs) 
Rules , 1958 . 


S . R . O . 274 , dated the 21st i 

January 1958 . 


Ditto . 


| Draft Amendments 10 be made 

in the Customs Duties Draw 
back (Carbon Paper) Rules 
1957 . 


Scc. 9] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1, 1958 /MAGHIA 12 , 1879 


203 


S . 


- - 


Issue 
No. 


No, and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


i 


S . R . O . 275 , daled the 218t | Ministry of Finance . | Draft of the Customs Dutics 
January 1958 . 

Drawback ( T issue Paper ) Rules, 

1958. 
S. R . O . 276 , dated the 21st Ditto . 

Draft Amendment to be made 
January 1958. 

in the Customs Duties Draw 
back (Glass and Glasswares ) 

Rules , 1957 
S .R . O . 277 , dated the 22nd 

Ditto , 

Exemption of exhaust fans, 
January 1958 . 

when imported , from so much 
of customs duty leviable there 
on . 


36 


— - - - G 
Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi, Indents should be 
submitted 60 as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of these 
Gazettes . 


PART 11 — Section 3 
Statutory Rules and Orders issued by the Ministries of the Government 

of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) and Central Authorities 
( other than the Chief Commissioners ) 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 

New Delhi, the 13th January 1958 
S . R . O . 349 . — It is hereby notified for general information that the disqualifi 
cation under clause ( c ) of section 7 of the Representation of the People Act , 1951 
( XLIII of 1951), incurred by the person whose name and address are given below , 
as notified under notification No. RN - P290 / 57 ( 192 ) dated the 14th November, 1957, 
has been removed by the Election Commission in exercise of the powers conferred 
on it by the said clause and section of the said Act : 
Shri Bhagirath Mohta , Mohta House, 29 - Strand Road , Calcutta - 1. 

[ No. RN - P /290 / 57 ( 192 - R ) / 2899 .] 

By Order , 
A . KRISHNASWAMY AIYANGAR, Secy , 


- - 


- - - 


-- - - - 


- - - - - 


MINISTRY OF LAW 


New Delhi, the 22nd January 1958 


S . R . O . 360 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of rule 8B 
of Order XXVII of the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 
( 5 of 1908 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri S . D . Pyne, Solicitor , 
of Messrs . Pyne and Pyne, Solicitors and Notaries , 1B , Old Post Onice Street . 
Calcutta , as Government Pleader for the purposes of the said Order in relation 
to any suit on the Original Side of the High Court at Calcutta , relating to the 
Railways and the Chittaranjan Locomotive Works, Chittaranjan , or against & 
public officer in the service of the Railways, and the Chittaranjan Locomotive 
Works. 

[No. 7 .66 ( 1 ) /58 - J. ) 


204 


PART II 


- - - - 


THE GAZET CE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1, 1958 /MAGHA 12 , 1879 
- - - - - - - 

= 
New Delhi, the 25th January 1958 


S . R . O . 351. - In excrcise of the powers conferred by rule 1 of Order XXVII 
of the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 ( 5 of 1908 ) and in 
supersession of the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Law , No. S. R .O . 1651 dated the 1st September 1953, the Central Government 
hereby appoints 


( i) the officers specified in the Schedule annexed hereto as persons by 

whom plaints and written statements in suits in any court of civil 
jurisdiction by or against the Central Government shall be signed ; 


(ii) those of the officers referred to in sub - clause ( i ) who are acquainted 

with the facts of the case, as persons by whom such plaints and 
written statements shall be verified . 


SCHEDULE 


1 - GENERAL 


or 


Any Secretary, Additional Secretary , Joint Secretary , Deputy Secretary 
Under Secretary to the Government of India . 

II — PRESIDENT S SECRETARIAT 
Military Secretary to the President. 
Deputy Military Secretary 10 the President, 


III — PRIME MINISTER S SECRETARIAT 


Principal Private Secretary to the Prime Minister, 
Private Secrctary to the Prime Minister (Administration ) , 


IV – CABINET SECRETARIAT 
Director of Industrial Statistics, 
Joint Director (Co - ordination ) in the Central Statistical Organisation . 
Chief Director, National Sample Survey . 
Assistant Directors, National Sample Survey . 

V - DEPARTMENT OF PARLIAMENTRY AFFAIRS 
Secretary , Department of Parliamentary Affairs. 

VI– MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 


Chief Industrial Adviser, Development Wing. 
Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 
Any Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, 
Any Deputy Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, 
Director General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics . 
Director of Exhibitions . 
Development Commissioner , Small Scale Industries. 
Any Joint Development Commissioner, Small Scale Industries. 
Any Regional Director, Small Industries Service Institute . 
Textile Commissioner 
Joint Textile Commissioner , 
Deputy Textile Commissioner . 
Industrial Adviser Textile Production ) 


- 


- 


- 


SEC . 8 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGHA 12 , 1879 205 
- - - - - - - 

= = 
Any Director, Textile Commissioner s Organisation . 
Salt Commissioner . 
Any Deputy Salt Commissioner . 
Any Assistant Salt Commissioner , 
General Manager, Rajputana Salt Sources Division , Sambhar Lakc. 
Registrar of. Trade Marks. 
Controller of, Patents & Designs. 
Custodian of Enemy Property . 
Economic Adviser to the Government of India . 
Secretary , Forward Markets Commission , Bombay . 

VII – MINISTRY OF DEFENCE 
Scientific Adviser to the Ministry of Defence ; 
Director General, Armed Forces Medical Services. 
Chief Administrative Officer , 
Director, Military Lands and Cantonments . 
Deputy Director , Military Lands and Cantonments . 
Military Estates Omcer . 
Executive Officer - cum -Military Estates Officer . 

Organisation of Controller General of Defence Production 
Director General, Ordnance Factories. 
Deputy Director General, Ordnance Factories . 
Assistant Director General, Ordnance Factories. 
Superintendent or Officer - in -charge of Ordnance Clothing Factories . 
Director Research & Development (Armament) . 
Director of Research & Development (General ) . 
Chief Superintendent or Superintendent of Development, 
Technical Development Establishments . 
Inspector or Assistant Inspectors in charge of Inspection Area , 
Officer in -charge , Clothing Inspection Depot, Shahjahanpur . 

Army 
General Officers Commanding - in - Chief, Commands. 
Commander , Corps . 
Principal Staff Officers, Heads of Branches or Directors at Army Head 

quarters. 
Chairman , Board of Administration , Canteen Stores Department ( India ) . 
Commander , Area, 
Commander , Division , 
Commander , Independent Sub -Area . 
Commander , Sub - Area . 
Commander , Brigade. 
Commander , Brigade Area , 
Officer Commanding, Station , 
Officer Commanding, Unit Establishments . 
Director , Territorial Army. 
Embarkation Commandants , Bombay and Calcutta . 
Chief Engineers . 
Deputy Chief Engineers. 
Commander, Works Engineers (CWE) , 
Staff Officers, Corps of Engineers I or II. 
Deputy Commander , Works Engineers (DCWE ) . 


- 


- - 


> 


206 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; FEBRUARY 1, 1958 /MAGHA 12 , 1879 [PART II 

= - = - = 
Assistant Commander, Works Engineers . 
Senior Barrack / Stores Oficers. 
Garrison Engineers. 
Officer Commanding, Engineer Stores Depots . 
Chief Works Officer , Naval Dockyard Expansion Scheme. 
Commandant, College of Military Engineering. 
Oficer Commanding , Administration Wing, College of Military Engineering 
Commandants, Engineer Groups . 
Director, Ministry of Defence Security Corps. 
Director of Ordnance Services , 
Director of Mechanical Engineering. 

Navy 
Chief of the Naval Staff. 
Deputy Chief of the Naval Staff . 
Commodore -in - charge , Bombay . 
Commodore - in -Charge, Cochin . 
Naval Omcer - in - Charge. 
Captain Superintendent of the Dockyard . 
Resident Naval Officers. 
Commanding Officers of the Indian Ships or Naval Shore Establishments . 

Air Force 
Chief of the Air Staff . 
Deputy Chief of the Air Staff , 
Air Officer - in -Charge of Personnel and Organisation , 
Air Officer - in -Charge , Technical and Equipments Services . 
Air or Other Officer Commanding, Command . 
Officer Commanding, Wing . 
Ofcer Commanding , Station . 
Officer Commanding Squadron or other Unit . 

VIII – MINISTRY OF EDUCATION & SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH 
Director of Archives . 
Librarian , National Library. 
Director General of Archaeology . 
Deputy Director General of Archaeology . 
Superintendents, Archaeological Department, 
Director, Department of Anthropology . 
The Principal, Central Institute of Education , 
The Director , Indian Institute of Technology . 

Department of Scientific Research and Technical Education 
Director, Zoological Survey of India . 
Surveyor General of India . 
Directors, Survey of India . 
Deputy Directors, Survey of India . 
Superintending Surveyors, Survey of India . 
Chief Botanist, Botanical Survey of India . 
Director, Indian School of Mines and Applied Geology. 
Principal, Delhi Polytechnic 

Departments of Education & Cultural Activities & Physical Education 
Any Deputy Educational Adviser . 


SEC. 8] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGHA 12, 1879 


20 7 


- - 


- 


- 


Any Assistant Educational Adviser , 
Curator , National Gallery of Modern Art. 
Director, National Museum . 
Keeper , National Museum . 
Director, National Institute of Basic Education . 
Director , National Fundamental Education Centre, 
Assistant Director , National Fundamental Education Centre , 
Archaeological Chemist, Department of Archaeology . 
Government Epigraphist, Department of Archaeology . 
Garden Superintendent, Department of Archaeology . 
Superintendent, Training Centre for the Adult Blind , 
Manager , Central Braille Press. 


IX - MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

Department of Economic Affairs 
Masters, India Government Mints. 
Master , Assay Department and Silver Refinery Project. 
Master, India Security Press . 
Managers of Public Debt Offices. 
Gover_ cor , Reserve Bank of India . 
Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer, Hirakud Project. 
Controller of Insurance. 
National Savings Commissioner . 
Director , Deputy Directors and Assistant Directors, Enforcement Unit, 
Foreign Exchange Regulation Act. 

Indian Audit and Accounts Department 
Comptroller and Auditor General of India , 
Deputy Comptroller and Auditor General of India . 
Any Additional Deputy Comptroller and Auditor General. 
Controller of Commercial Accounts . 
Accountants General . 
Comptrollers . 
Chief Auditors of Indian Railways . 
Director of Railway Audit. 
Director of Audit , Defence Services. 
Controller of Coal Accounts. 
Deputy Accountants General, Posts and Telegraphs . 
Chief Auditor, Damodar Vallcy Corporation and Sindri Projects , 

Finance (Defence ) 
Financial Adviser . 
Additional Financial Adviser . 
Joint Financial Adviser . 
Deputy Financial Adviser . 
Assistant Financial Adviser . 


Defence Accounts Department 
Controller General of Defence Accounts . 
Additional Controller General of Defence Accounts. 
Deputy Controller General of Defence Accounts . 
Controllers or Joint Controllers of Defence Accounts . 


Der 


208 . GA , OF 

. . . 1, de 12 , 1. II 
- - - - 

-- - -- - - 
Department of Revenue 
Commissioners of Income- tax . 
Collectors of Customs, Additional Collectors of Customs, Deputy Collectors of 

Customs and Assistant Collectors of Customs. 
Collector of Land Customs, Calcutta . 
Any Officer of the Central Excise Department not below the rank of Assistant 

Collector of Central Excise . 
Narcotics Commissioner , 

X - MINISTRY OF FOOD & AGRICULTURE 

Department of Agriculture 
Vice President, Indian Council of Agricultural Rescarch . 
Central Registrar of Cooperative Socicţies and Joint Secretary incharge of 

Cooperation , Ministry of Food & Agriculture, Department of Agriculture . 
Agricultural Marketing Advisor to the Government of India . 
Agricultural Extension Commissioner , Directorate of Extension and Training. 
Director, Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research . 
Director , Sugarcanc Breeding Institute . 
Director, Indian Agricultural Research Institute. 
Director, Central Potato Research Institute. 
Director, Central Rice Rescarch Institute . 
Directors , Indian Veterinary Research Institutes. 
Directors of Dairy Research , 
President, Forest Rescarch Institute & Colleges. 
Plant Protection Adviser to the Government of India . 
Director, Locust Control. 
Chairman , Central Tractor Organisation . 
Superintendent, Cattle - cum -Dairy Farm , 
Economic and Statistical Advisor to the Government of India . 
Chicf Research Officer , Central Marinc Fisheries . 
Chief Rescarch Officer, Inland Fisheries Research Station , 
Superintending Engineer, Deep Sea Fishing Station . 
General Manager , Central Mechanised Farm , 
Oncer Incharge, Central Mechanised Farm , 

Department of Food 
Director General of Food , Deputy Director General of Food , Regional Direc 

tors ( Food ) or Directors, Joint Directors or Deputy Directors of Food . 
Chief Director of Purchase, Director of Purchase, Joint Director of Purchase 

or Deputy Directors of Purchase. 
Chief Director of Sugar & Vanaspati . 
Director , National Sugar Institute . 

XI – MINISTRY OF HEALTI 
Deputy Director General of Health Services. 
Assistant Director General of Health Services ( Stores ) . 
Any Deputy Assistant Director General (Medical Stores ) , Government Medi 

cal Store Depots . 
Principal, College of Nursing, 
Director, Malaria Institute of India , 
Director, Central Research Institute . 
Director , All - India Institute of Hygiene & Public Health , 
Serologist and Chemical Examiner to the Government of India . 


. . ] : GA OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1, 1958 /MAGHA 12 , 1879 200 
= = 

= = - = - = - - -- 
Civil Surgeon , Simla . 
Director, Central Drugs Laboratory . 
Any Assistant Drugs Controller . 
Any Port Health Officer , 
Any Airport Health Oficer . 
Director, B .C .G . Vaccine Laboratory . 
Superintendent, Lady Reading Health School, Delhi, 
Ram Chandra Lohia Infant Welfare Centre, Delhi, 
Medical Superintendent, IIospital for Mental Diseases , 
Medical Superintendent, Safdarjang Hospital, New Delhi, 

Iedical Superintendent, Willingdon Hospital, New Delhi. 
Technical Officer , Central Drugs Standard Control Organization . 
Director , Central Food Laboratory , 
Director, Leprosy Control Works of the Government of India . 

Director General (CHS) and Assistant Director General (CHS ) Directorate 
General of Health Services, New Delhi. 

Offlcer - in -Charge, Family Planning Training and Research Centre. 

Health Oficer, Family Planning Training , Demonstration and Experimental 
Centre . 
Principal, Medical Collcge, Pondicherry . 

XII – MINISTRY OF INFORMATION & BROADCASTING 
Principal Information omçer . 
Director , Publications Division . 
Director General, All- India Radio . 
Station Directors , All - India Radio . 
Controller of Administration , Films Division . 
Any Regional Officer , Central Board of Film Censors, 
Registrar of Newspapers for India . 
Director of Advertising and Visual Publicity . 
Deputy Director , Research and Roference Division . 

XIII – MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION & POWER 

Central Water & Power Commission 
Chairman . 
Members . 
Chlef Engineers . 
Directors and Thermal Specialist Engineers. 
Deputy Directors , 
Administrative Officers . 
Assistant Administrative Omcers. 
Superintending Engineers . 
Executive Engineers. 


Hirakud Dam Project 
Chief Engineer 
Personal Assistant to Chief Engineer. 
Superintending Engineers . 
Divisional Oficers (Executive Engineers ), 

XIV - MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 
Chief Labour Commissioner . 
Chief Adviser, Factories. 


210 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1. 1958 /MAGHA 12 , 1879 PART II 
= = = = = = = = 
Controller of Emigrant Labour, Shillong . 
Coal Mines Welfare Commissioner , 
Welfare Commissioner , Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund . 

Chairman , Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund Advisory Committee for Andhra 
Pradesh 

Chairman , Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund Advisory Committee for 
Rajasthan . 

Additional Deputy Director ( Labour ) , Gorakhpur. 
Chief Inspector of Mines in India . 
Director , Labour Bureau . 
Central Provident Fund Commissioner . 
Regional Providerit Fund Commissioners, 
Coal Mines Provident Fund Commissioner, 
Chairman , Central Government Industrial Tribunals. 

XV - MINISTRY or LAW 
Additional Secretary and Chief Draftsman , Joint Secretary and Draftsman , 
Additional Draftsman , Deputy Draftsman , Assistant Draftsman , Joint Secretary 
and Legal Adviser, Additional Legal Adviser , Deputy Legal Adviser or Assistant 
Legal Adviser . 

Registrar, Income- tax Appellate Tribunal, Bombay . 
Secretary , Election Commission , India . 


XVI– MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 
Custodian General of Evacuee Property . 
Deputy Custodian General of Evacuee Property . 
Custodian of Evacuee Property , Delhi. 
Custodian cf Evacuee Property , Himachal Pradesh , Simla . 
Chief Settlement Commissioner , Ministry of Rehabilitation . 
Any Reglonal Settlement Commissioner , 

XVII -- MINISTRY OF STEEL, MINES AND FUEL 
Coal Controller . 
Director , Indian Bureau of Mines. 
Director, Indian School of Mines and Applied Geology . 
Controllers of Mining Leases. 
Members and Secretary of the Oil and Natural Gas Commission , 
Director of Geology and Geophysics , Oil and Natural Gas Commission . 

Department of Iron and Steel 
Iron and Steel Controller . 
Deputy Iron and Steel Controllers . 
Price and Accounts Officer , Iron and Steel Control Organisation , 
XVIII – MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMUNICATIONS 

( Transport Wing ) 
Administrative Omcer , Cochin Harbour. 
Port Administrative Officer , Vizagapatam . 
Development Commissioner, Kandla . 
Secretary to the Development Commissioner , Kandla . 
Director General of Shipping. 
Any Deputy Director General of Shipping. 
Any Principal Officer , Mercantile Marine Department, 
Captain Superintendents of Training Ships. 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- - - 


SEC . 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1, 1958 ;MAGHA 12 , 1879 211 
< - - EL 

- - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - -- 
Director , Marine Engineering Training . 
Principal, Nautical and Engineering College , 
Surveyors in - Chargc, Mercantile Marine Department 
Any Shipping Master , 
Directors, Seamens Employment Offices . 
Regional Tourist Ofcers. 

Department of Lighthouses & Lightships 
Director General of Lighthouses and Lightships. 
Administrative Officer. 
Executive Officer. 
Executive Engineer . 
Executive Engineer ( Electrical) . 
Marine Officers . 
Directors of Lighthouses and Lightships. 

Civil Aviation Department 
Senior Aerodrome Officers, Aerodrome Officers or Assistant Aerodrome 

Officers - in - Charge of Civil Aerodromes. 
Director, Inspection Office, Southern Area , Bangalore. 

Indian Meteorological Department 
Deputy Directors General. 
Directors, Regional Meteorological Centres . 
Director , Agricultural Meteorology . 
Director , Colaba and Alibag Observatorics. 
Director, Solar Physics Observatory , 

Government of Indra Overseas Communication Service 
Director-General. 
Director (Administration ). 
Chief Engineer . 
Director , 
Deputy Director-General ( Traffic ). 
Traffic Manager . 
Engineers -in -Charge. 

Indian Posts and Telegraphs Department 
All Gazetted Officers. 

XIX - MINISTRY OF WORKS , HOUSING AND SUFPLY 
Chied Inspector of Explosives in India . 
Estate Officer . 
Joint Estate Officer . 
Estate Managers and Assistant Estate Managers. 

National Buildings Organisation 
Director . 
Joint Director . 

Central Public Works Department 
Chief Engineer . 
Additional Chief Engineers . 
Director of Administration , 
Superintending Engineers and Executive Engineers . 
Chler Resident Engineer , Jawahar Tunnel Projects . 


212 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1 , 1958 /MAGHA 12, 1879 


(PART II 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Director of Horticulture . 
Superintending Surveyors of Works . 
Electrical Engineers , 


Stationery and Printing 


Chief Controller of Printing and Stationery . 
Controller of Stationery . 
Alanager . Government of India Forms Stores. 

Gorernment of India Presses 
General Manager, Government cf India Press , New Delhi. 
Managers, Government of India Presses. 
Manager, Government of India Photo Litho Press . 
Works Manager, Government of India Press , Nasik Road . 
Production Officer , United Press, Delhi. 
Managers, Government of India Forms Presscs. 

Governinent of India Publication Branch 
Manager of Publications. 


Directorate General, Supplies and Disposals 
Director General, Supplies and Disposals. 
Deputy Directors General, Supplies and / or Disposals. 
Directors , Deputy Directors and Assistant Directors of Supplies and / or Dis 

posals, whether posted at Headquarters or in any of the regional offices . 
Director of Administration . 
Director of Co -ordination and Statistics. 
Deputy Director of Administration . 
Deputy Director of Co -ordination , 
Director, Government Test House . 
Deputy Director , Government Test House , 
Any Assistant Director ( Administration ). 
Officer on Special Duty (Litigation ), 
Assistant Director ( Litigation ), Calcutta . 
Chief Pay and Accounts omcer , Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply , 


XX -- MISCELLANEOUS 


District Magistrates and Deputy Commissioners in West Bengal. 
Collector of Bombay . 
Secretary to the Chief Commissioner , Andaman and Nicobar Islands , 
Administrator , Laccadlve , Minicoy & Amindivi Islands. 


[NO. F .62 ( 1) / 87 -J . ] 
B . N . LOKUR , Jt, Secy . 


SEC , 9 ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1 , 1958 /MAGHA 12, 1879 


2 


- 


- 


- 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi- 2 , the 21st January 1958 
S . R . O . 352 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3 ( b ) of the table 
annexed to Schedulo I to the Indian Arms Rules , 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify Shri B . S . Prithvirajsinhji S . Jhala , grandson of the Ruler of 
Sayla , for purposes of that entry , and directs that the exemption shall be valid 
in respect of one revolver / pistol and two guns (rifles or smooth bore ). 

[No. 16 / 9 / 57-Police IV .] 


New Delhi- 2, the 25th January 1958 
S . R . O . 353. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( a ) of section 
27 of the Indian Army Act , 1878 ( 11 of 1878 ), the Central Government hereby 
exempts Lt. Col. D . G . Majhi, accompanying Her Majesty the Queen of Nepal 
visiting Calcutta , from the operation of the prohibitions and directions contained 
in section 6 of the said Act, in respect of onc . 38 bore pistol No A31869 with 12 
rounds of ammunition . 

[NO. F . 17 / 1 / 58 -Police ( IV ).] 
C . P . S. MENON , Dy . Secy , 


New Delhi- 2, the 21st January 1958 
S . R . O . 354 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution and in supersession of the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Home Affairs No. S . R . O . 3923 dated the 7th December , 
1957, the President hereby makes the following amendment in the Central Civil 
Services ( Classification , Control and Appeal) Rules, 1957, namely : 

In part I of the Scheduled to the said rules, after entry 23 , the following 
entry shall be inserted , namely : 

" 24 . Indian Frontier Administrative Service : 
( a ) Grade I 
( b ) Grade II 

(No . F . 7 /51/ 57-Ests. ( A ) . ] 


New Delhi- 2, the 25th January 1958 
S . R . O . 355 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 
309 of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following further amend 
ments in the Central Civil Services (Classification , Control and Appeal) Rules , 
1957 , namely : — 
In the Schedule to the said Rules 
( 1) in Part I, below the entry 24 , the following entry shall be inserted , 

namely : 
25. Central Legal Service (Grades I, II, III & IV ).” 
(2 ) in Part III, against “ Central Secretariat Clerical Service, Grades I and 

II" , below " ( IV ) Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals" and 
the entries relating thereto in columns 3 to 5 , the following shall be 
Inserted , namely : 

- - - - 
3 


Ministry Joint 
of Law - - Secretary 
and Legal Adviser. 


( i ) to 
( ili ) 


Secretary, 
Ministry of 
Law . 


- 


[No. 7 / 54 / 57 - Ests . ( A ), 1 
P , SITARAMAN , Dy . Secy 


- - - 


- 


214 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; FEBRUARY 1, 1938 /MAGHA 12, 1879 [PART. IL 

- - - - - 
New Delhi- 2, the 23rd January 1958 
S . R . O . 356 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
3 of the All India Services Act , 1951 (61 of 1951) , the Central Government, after 
consultation with the Governments of the States concerned , hereby makes the 
following amendments in the Indian Police Service (Regulation of Seniority ) 
Rules , 1954. 

2 . The amendments shall be deemed to have taken effect from the 14th May, 
1956 

Amendments 
In the said Rules , 
( i) after rule 5, the following rule shall be inserted , namely : 
“ 5 - A .. . Seniority of Officers appointed under the Indian Police Service 

( Special Recruitment) Regulations, 1957 ,-- -Notwithstanding anything 
contained in any of the provisions of these rules, the seniority of 
officers appointed to the service in accordance with the regulations 
framed under sub - rule ( 5 ) of rule 9 of the Indian Police Service 
(Recruitment) Rules, 1954 , shall be determined in accordance with 
such regulations, as the Central Government may , after consultation 
with the State Governments and the Commission , from time to time, 

make." 
(ti) in rule 6 , for the word and figures " 4 , 5 and 7 " , the word and figures " 4 , 5 , 
SA and 7" shall be substituted . 

[No. 13 / 30 / 67-AIS (III)-A .1 


S . R . O . 357. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
3 of the All India Services Act, 1951 (61 of 1951 ) , the Central Government, after 
consultation with the Governments of the States concerned , hereby makes the 
following amendments in the Indian Administrative Service ( Regulation of 
Seniority ) Rules , 1954, 

2 . The amendments shall be deemed to have taken effect from the 20th Decem 
her , 1958 , 

Amendments 
In thc said Rules, 
( i) after rulc 5, the following rule shall be inserted , namely : 
" 5 - A . Seniority of Officers appointed under the Indian Administrative 

Service ( Special Recruitment ) Regulations, 1956 — Notwithstanding 
anything contained in any of the provisions of these rules , the 
seniority of officers appointed to the service in accordance with the 
regulations framed under sub -rule ( 3 ) of rule 4 of the Indian Ad 
ministrative Service (Recruitment) Rules, 1954, shall be determined 
in accordance with such regulations, as the Central Government may , 
after consultation with the State Governments and the Commission , 

from time to time, make." 
(il) in rule 6 , for the word and figures " 4 , 5 and 7" the word and figures " 4 , 5 , 
5 - A and 7 shall be substituted . 

(No. 13 / 30 / 57 -AIS ( III ).1 
S . P . MUKERJEE , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi-3, the 23rd January 1958 
S . R . O . 358. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proyiso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby directs that the following further amend 
ments shall be inade to the Indian Foreign Service Rules, 1954 , namely : 

In the said Rules, the following may be substituted for the existing Item (1x ) 
below sub - rule ( 4 ) of Rule 18 . 

" (ix ) Marine Insuranco charges " . 
2 . This amendment shall be deemed to have taken effect on and from the 25th 
day of September , 1957. 

[No, F . I (6 ) - E .II / 57 ( IFSR .Amd. 23 ) . ] 

A . S . MEHTA , Dy. Secy . 


SEC. ] ‘IHE GAZET I E OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1, 1958 ;MAGHA 12, 1879 


- 


215 


- - - - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Company Law Administration ) 

New Delhi- 1, the 25th January , 1958 
S . R . O . 359 , -- In exercise of the power conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 448 of the Companies Act, 1956 ( 1 of 1956 ), the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints, until further orders , Shri Narsingh Dass Gupta , acting 
Registrar of the Judicial Commissioner s Court, Himachal Pradesh , Simla , to 
be the ex -officio Official Liquidator attached to that court for the period 30th 
December , 1957 to 31st March , 1958 vice Shri Chet Ram . 

[No . 2(27)-CL .III/ 56.) 
P . B , SAHARYA , Under Secy . 


(Department of Expenditure ) 

New Delhi- 2, the 22nd January 1958 
S . R . O . 360 . -- In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
and , in relation to persons serving in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, 
after consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor General as required by clause 
5 ) of article 148 of the Constitution , the President hereby directs that the follow 
ng further amendment shall be made in the Fundamental Rules , namely : 
In the said Rules, for Rule 31, the following shall be substituted , namely : 
" F . R . 31 ( 1). Subject to the provisions of Rules 30 and 35 , a Government 

Servant who is appointed to officiate in a post will draw the presump 

tive pay of that post. 
( 2 ) On an enhancement in the substantive pay, as a result of Increment or 

otherwise , the pay of such Government servant shall be re - fixed under 
sub - rule ( 1 ) from the date of such enhancement as if he was appointed 
to officiate in that post, on that date where such re- fixation is to his 
advantage 

[No. F .2 ( 4 )- E . III / 58 . ] 
K . S . GANAPATI, Dy. Secy . 


( Communications Division ) 

New Delhi, the 22nd January 1958 
S . R . O . 361, — The President hereby directs that the following further amend 
ment shall be made in the Post Once 5 - Year Cash Certificates Rules , namely : 

In rule 6 of the Sub -rules, after sub -rule ( 10 ) , the following Sub -rule shall 
be inserted , namely : 
" ( 11) A receipt obtained by Government in respect of payment of amount 

due on a Post Office Cash Certificate whether endorsed on the back 
of the Certificate at the time of its discharge or taken separately 
shall be exempt from the payment of stamp duty chargeable under 
the Indian Stamp Act, 1899" . 

(No. 1 NSC /PTI /58. ) 


S . R . O . 362. The President hereby directs that the following further amend 
ment shall be made in the Post Office 10 - Year Defence Savings Certificates Rules, 
namely : 

In rule 10 of the said rules, after sub - rule ( 7 ) , the following sub -rule shall 
be inserted , namely : -- 
" ( 8 ) A receipt obtained by Government in respect of payment of amount 

duc on a Defence Savings Certificate , whether endorsed on the back 
of the Certificate at the time of its discharge or taken separately , 
shall be exempt from the payment of stamp duty chargeable under 
the Indian Stamp Act , 1899." 

[No. 2 NSC / PTI/58. 1 


216 

THE GAZEITE OF INDIA : FEBRC ART 1 , 1958 ,MAGHI 12, 1879 [ PART. ] 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

S . R . O . 363 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 of the Post 
Oltce National Savings Certificates Ordinance , 1944 (42 of 1944 ), the Central 
Government hereby makes the following further amendments to the Post Office 
National Savings Certificates Rules , 1944, namely : 

In the said Rules 
( 1) in sub -rule (1 ) of rule H , the following shall be added at the end , namely : -- 

" A receipt obtained by Government In respect of payment due on a Certificate , 
whiother endorsed on the back of the Certificate at the time of its discharge or 
lakon separately , shall be cxcmpt from the payment of stamp duty chargeable 
under the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 " .. 
( 2 ) in rulc J, suh - rule ( 3 ) shall be omitted . 

[No. 3 NSC / PTI /58. ] 
S . R . O . 364 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 6 of the Post 
Office National Savings Ordinance , 1944 ( 42 of 1944 ) , the Central Governinent 
hercby makes the following further arendment in the Government of India , 
Ministry of Finance (Department of Economic Affa rs ) , Notification No. SRO 
1449, dated the 1st May , 1954 , namely : - - 

In the said notification , after clause (f ), the following shall be inserted as 
clause ( g ) , namely : 
" ( g ) A receipt obtained by Government in respect of payment due on a 

National Plan Certificate whether endorsed on the back of the 
certificate at the time of its discharge or taken separately shall be 
exempt from the payment of stamp duty chargcable under the Indian 
Stamp Act, 1899." 

[No. 4 NSC /PTI / 58 ] 
M . K . NAIR , Under Secy. 


( Department of Revenue ) 
MEDICINAL AND TOILET PREPARATIONS 

New Delhi, the 21st January 1958 
S . R . O . 385 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 19 of the Medi 
cinal and Toilet Preparations (Excise Duties ) Act , 1955 ( 16 of 1955 ), the Central 
Government hereby makes the following further amendments in the Medicinal 
and Toilet Preparations (Excise Duties ) Rules , 1956 , namely : 


In the said rules- - 
1. In rule 2 , clausc ( xxiii ) shall be omitted . 

2 . In rulę 22 , for the yords " There shall be only one entrance to the bonded 
manufactory " , the words " Unless otherwise ordered by the State Government, 
there shall be only one entrance to the bonded manufactory " shall be substituted . 

3 . In clausę ( vi) of rule 23 , the words " the entrance to " shall be omitted . 

4 . In rule 27 , before the words " Duty at the full rate" , the words " Subject to 
the provision of rule 19 " , shall be inserted . 

5 . In rule 29 , in sub - rulc ( 1 ), for the words " or the standard formulae of the 
manufacturer which has been registered with and approved by the Central Drugs 
Laboratory , Calcutta " , the words and Agures or the formula of the patent and 
proprietary medicine displayed on the label of the container in the manner pros 
ribed in the Drugs Rules , 1945 for the time being in force" shall be substituted . 

6 . In clause ( i) of rule 33 , for the words " not exceeding 8 ounces " , the words 
of 8 cunces or such quantity of the prcparation as the officer - in - charge considers 
necessary ” shall be substituted . 

7 . In sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 37, for the words " the difference in duty shall be 
collected or made leviable , as the case may be , on determination of the volume 
and strength of the alcohol so recovered . For this purpose a sample shall be sent 
by the officer - in - charge to the Chemical Exam ner " , the words " the duty on the 
preparation so manufactured shall be collected or made leviable on determination 
of the spirit strength of the preparation " shall be substituted . 


3 ] 


8 . In sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 38 , for the words " The Central Government or the 
State Government with the prior approval of the Central Government" , the 
words " The State Government” shall be substituted . 

9 . In rule 47 , after clause (viii ) , the following clause shall be inserted 
namely : 
" ( 1x ) The State Government may relax all or any of the provisions of 

clauses ( i) to (viii) in the case of small manufacturers whose annual 
consumption of alcohol does not exceed 100 walang arid 180 in the 
case of those who prepare medicinal preparations for dispensing to 

their patients only and not for - sale ." 
10 . For clause (1) of rule 54, the following shall be substituted , namely : 
" (i) A sample shall be of 8 fluid ounces or such quantity as may be fixed 

by the Excise Commissioner." 
11 . In tule 59 - 
( a ) in clause (i) - 
( 1 ) the words " and which are not likely to be used for any purpose other 

than as medicine" shall be omitted ; and 
( 2 ) for the words " The Indian Pharmacopoeial List" appearing against item 

( 3 ) the words " The Indian Pharmacopoeia " shall be substituted . 
(b ) for clausę (ii ), the following shall be substituted , namely : 
" rli) Non - official allopathic preparations hereinafter referred to as propriet 

Ary preparations which are prepared according to allopathic system 
of medicine and conform strictly to the formula displayed on the 

label." 
12 . For the heading " Spurious preparations" appearing after rule 67, the head 
ing " Standing Committee" shall be substituted . 
13. For rule 68 , the following rule shall be substituted , namely : - -- 
" 68 . Standing Coinzittee and its functions. - ( 1 ) A Standing Committee con 

sisting of the Drugs Controller of the Government of India and the 
Chief Chemist, Central Revenues Control Laboratory , shall advise 
the Central Government on all matters connected with the technical 
aspects of the administration of the Art and these rules , and in 

particular, on the question whether 
( i) a particular preparation is entitled to be treated , or to continue to 

be treated , as a genuine medicinal or toilet preparation for the 

purposes of the Act ; 
( 11) and if so , whether it should be treated , or continue to be treated , 

as a restricted or an unrestricted preparation , 
( 2 ) The Committee may tender such advice , on the motion of the Central 

Government and may make such investigation as it or the Central 
Government considers necessary , and the Central Government may 

take, on such advice , such decision as that Government thinks fit. 
14 . In rule 83 , in sub - item (1) of item 2 of the Table annexed to the sald rule , 
before the words " where consumption of alcohol, is 24 London Proof gallong or 
less per annum " , the words " where only opium , Indian hemp and other narcotic 
Urugs and narcotics are used or " shall be inserted , 

15 . In rule 91 , in the marginal heading , for the words " for working " , the 
words “ to manufacture medicinal and toilet preparations in " shall be substituted . 

16 In rule 94 , for the words " establishment of a manufactory " , the words 
" manufacture of medicinal and toilet preparations" shall be substituted . 
17. In rule 95 
( a ) in the marginal heading after the words " Disposal of application for 

the words " licence to manufacture medicinal and tollet preparation 

in a " shall be inserted ; 
( b ) in sub -rule ( 2 ) , for the words " bonded or non -bonded manufactory 

licence may be granted , it shall sanction the establishment of the 
droposed manufactory , the words " licence for the manufacture of 
medicinal and toilet preparations in a bonded or non -bonded manu 
factory may be granted , it shall issue a licence" shall be substituted . 


[r 


11 


Y I, 1 , A 12. 
= - = 

- S 
18 . In the Schedule 
( a ) under the heading. " Pharmacopoeial Preparations" , the words 

" ALCOHOLS " and " Alcohol Dehydratum B . P ." shall he omitted . 
(b ) the entry " Vinkola" appearing under " Non - Pharmacopoeial Prepara 

tions" shall be omitted . 
19. In the list of Forms— the entry " CHALAN ” and the serial number 34 and 
The Lastriot - against such serial number in columns 2 , 3, 4 , and 5 shall be omitted . 

20. Form C31 - I, hearing M & TP Series No. 34 , appended to the Rules, 
shall be omitted , 

[No. 3.] 
G . P . DURAIRAJ, Under Secy . 


(Department of Revenue) 

CENTRAL EXCISES 

New Delhi, the 1st February , 1958 
S . R . O . 366 . - In pursuance of rule 12 of the Central Excise Rules, 1944 , as 
in force in India and as applied to the State of Pondicherry , the Central Govern 
ment hereby directs that a rebate of excise duty paid on the vegetable non 
essential olls , other than cottonseed oil, used in the manufacture of vegetable 
product, and the excise duty paid on such vegetable product, shall be allowed 
at the following rates on Its exportation to any country or territory out of India 
or the said State , other than a country or territory with a common land frontier 
with India , which has been declared to be foreign territory under section 5 of 
the Indian Tariff Act , 1934 ( 32 of 1934 ), except Pakistan and Burma, or shipped 
as stores for use on board a ship proceeding to a foreign port subject to the 
conditions and limitations set out in Appendix I to this condition : 

Rate of Rebate 
(i) on Vegetable Product, - Rs. 140 per ton of such vegetable product. 
(il) on Vegetable Non - essential oils other than Cottonseed oil used in the 

manufacture of the Vegetable Product , - Rs. 105 - 50 per ton of such 

vegetable product. 
Provided that , 
( 1 ) the the vegetable product to be exported is manufactured in a factory 

licensed under the Central Excise Rules , 1944 , and the exports are 

made direct from such a factory : 
( 2 ) the exporter produces the proof of payment of duty on the vegetable 

non - cssential oil used in the manufacture of vegetable product for 
the purpose of calculating the rebate in respect of vegetable non 
essential oils ; the oils constituting part of the exemption quota 
specifed in the notification of the Government of India , Ministry 
of Finance (Revenue Department) No . CER - 8 ( 25 ) / 56 - Central Excises, 
dated the 3rd November 1956 , or constituting part of the quantity 
assessed to duty at the concessional rate specified in the notification 
of the Government of India , Ministry of Finance (Revenue Depart 
ment) No , 40 /67 -Central Excises , dated the 16th May 1957 , shall be 
treated AS having paid duty at the rates prescribed under the 
Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 (I of 1944 ) for the vegetable 

non - essential oils ; 
( 3 ) the value of the vegetable product at the time of exportation is , in 

the opinion of the Collector of Central Excise , not less than the 

amount of the rebate of excise duty claimed ; 
(4 ) the amount of rebate of excise duty admissible is not less than five 

rupees ; 
( 5 ) the exporter other than manufacturer executes an indemnity bond in 

Form C or D in Appendix II to this notification , with such surety 
or suficient security , as the Collector approves , in a sum equal at 


219 


SEC. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1, 1958 /MAGHA 12. 1879 

= = = = = 
least to the amount of rebate claimed in respect of vegetable non 
essential oils used in the manufacture of the vegetable product 
exported agreeing to indemnify Government in regard to any claim 
by the manufacturer for refund in whole , or in part , of the excise 
duty paid by him on such vegetable non -essential oils in respect of 

which rebate of duty may have been granted to such exporter ; 
(6 ) the exporter undertakes to refund to the Collector of Central Excise 

on demand being made within six months of the date of payment, 
any rebate erroneously paid to him , 


APPENDIX I 

(See Preamble ) 
1 . The exporter of such vegetable product shall apply in writing in Form A 
for registration to the Collector of Central Excise in whose jurisdiction he 
carries on his business, 

2. The exporter shall similarly get the registration renewed in the month 
of January every year on application in Form A . 

3 . Rebate of excise duty shall be allowed at the rates prescribed from time 
to time in respect of vegetable product and the vegetable non -essential oils 
( other than cottonseed oil) contained therein , exported 
( a ) through the ports of Boinbay , Madras or Calcutta . by the Collector 

of Central Excise , Bombay , Madras or Calcutta , as the case may be; 
(h ) through other ports , or by land, by the Collector of Central Excise with 

whom the exporter is registered . 
4 . The exporter shall prepare an application in Form B , and present it to 
the Collector of Central Excise within a period of three months of the date of 
export of such products , together with the Bill of Lading or Shipping Bill duly 
certified by the Customs authorities to the effect that the products have in fact 
been exported . 

5 . If the products are not exported , or the proof of export is not furnished 
to the satisfaction of the Collector, in the manner and within the prescribed time 
limit , the Collector may in his discretion disallow the whole or any part of the 
claim for such rehate . 

FORM A 

(See paragraph 1 of Appendix I) 
Application for registration / renewal of registration for export, under claim for 

rebate , of the vegetable product. 
(Delete the letters and words not applicable ). 


TO 


The Collector of Central Excise , 


Sir , 
I / We residing at 

taluk 

District 
request that I / We desire to register / renew our registration to export vegetable 
product under claim for rebate of duty , for the year 

2. I / We hereby declare particulars (in the schedule overleaf) of the premises 
where such vegetable product is being manufactured . 

3 . I / We submit a list of vegetable product intended to be exported , along 
with the manufacturing formula of each , duly signed by the manufacturers of 
the products , with special reference to the quantity or proportion of vegetable 
non -essential oils actually used and the quantity and tariff category of the oils 
80 used . 

4 . I /We declare that I /We will not change the list except with the prior 
permission of the Collector , and , if the inanufacturer should make any revision 
in the manufacturing formulae of the products , the revised formulae will be 
similarly communicated to the Collector and his permission obtained before the 
products made According to the revised formulae are exported . 


220 

THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : FEBRUARY 1, 1958 / MAGHA 12 , 1879 [PART II 
S S 

= = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = 
5 . I /We agree to abide by the provisions of the Central Excise Rules , 1944 , 
in respect of export of the vegetable product under claim for rebate of duty , 

8 . I /We declare that to the best of my/ our knowledge and belief the informa 
tion furnished here is true and complete . 


Date 

Signature of the exporter (8 ) 

Full address 

SCHEDULE 

( See paragraph 2 of Form A ) 
1. List of vegetable product and their formula ( attached ). 

2 . Estimated quantity of vegetable non - essential oils of each tariff category 
and quality required for each unit of vegetable product. 

3 . Quantity of vegetable product which is estimated to be exported during 
the year . 

4 . Particulars premises where the vegetable product is manufactured . 
5 . Particulars of Central Excise Licences , if any, held by the exporter , 

6 . If the exporter is a firm , the names of its partners, and if a company 
the names of its directors , 
7. Financial standing of the exporter. 

* List of Vegetable Products Manufactured 


S . No. 


Brand & size of the 
vegetable product. 


Manufacturing formulae showing the percentage by weigh 
of vegetable non - cssential oils used, 


Cottonseed oil 


ther oils . 


Place 
Date 


. . . 
. . . . . 


Signature (8) of the minufacturer ($). 


- 


* To be submitted to the Collector in triplicate . 


FORM B 

( See paragraph 4 of Appendix I) 
Application for rebate of duty on vegetable product exported . 


То 


The Collector of Central Excise , 


I /We have exported the undermentioned quantity and variety of vegetable 
product to . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . ( name of country ) . 
of the relevant Bill of Lading / Shipping Bill / Export Application is also 
attached . I / We request that rebate of duty to the extent admissible to me/ us 
may be granted 

( 1 ) Central Excise Registration No. 
( 2 ) Name and address of the factory where the vege 

table product was manufactured . 
( 3 ) Particulars of the vegetable products exported 
( a ) Vegetable product ( brand and size )--- 

( i) Quantity 
( ii ) Value 


SEC. 8] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1, 1958 / MAGHA 12 , 
= = = = = = = = = = = = = = 

( b ) Vegetable non - essential oils used in the 

manufacture of the vegetable product 
exported — 
(i) Cottonseed oil used per ton of vegetable 

product exported, 
(ii) Other oils used per ton of vegetable 

product exported . 
(4 ) No. and Date of the Bill of Lading/ Shipping 

Bill / Export application . 
( 5 ) Amount of rebate claimed 
(1 ) vegetable product 

. , Rs. 
(11) vegetable non - essential oils other than cotton 
seed oil 

, , Rş. 
2 . I /We attach herewith the A . R . 1 No. . . . . . . . . , dated . . . . . . . . . . . . showing pay 
ment of duty in respect of vegetable product and A . R . 1 No. . . . . . . dated . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . showing payment of duty on the vegetable non - essential oils , with the 
certificates thereon of the manufacturers that the rebate claimed above be paid 
to me /us and I / we also attach the indemnity bond required under the notification 
of the Government of India , Ministry of Finance ( Revenue Department ) , 
No. 14 - Central Excises , dated the 1st February 1958, entered j o with the 
Collector of Central Excise , , , , , , , , , , . , , . , . , . , , . , . , . , undertaking to indemnify 
Government in regard to any claim by the manufacturer for refund in whole 
or in part of the excise duty paid by him on the vegetable non - essential oils 
contained in the vegetable product in respect of which such rebate as may be 
admissible may have been granted to the exporter , 

3 . I / We further undertake to refund , on demand being made, within six 
months of the date of payment, any rebate erroneously paid to me/ us . 

4 . I /We certify that the aforesaid particulars are correct. 
Date . . . . . . . . 

Signature and full address of the claimant ( s ) . 
REFUND ORDER NO .. . . . . . . . . . 

Date . . . . . . . . . . . 
The claim of Shri / M / s .. . . 

. . .has been 
scrutinised with the relevant copy of Bill of Lading / Shipping Bill, and rebate 
of Rs.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Rs.) in respect of vegetable product 
and of Rs.. . 

. . . . . . . .Rs.) in respect of the vegetable 
non - essential oils contained therein are sanctioned . 
Date . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

Collector of Central Excise, . . 
(FOR EXPORTS THROUGH THE PORTS OF BOMBAY, MADRAS AND 

CALCUTTA ) 
Forwarded to : 
( 1) The Chief Accounts Officer , Central Excise , . . . . . 

for information and necessary action . 
( 2 ) The Collector of Central Excise , . . . . 

(with whom the exporter is registered ) . 
Date . . . . . . . . . . . 

Collector of Central Excise , . . . . . , 
Passed for payment for Rs. . . . . . . . . . . . . ( Rs . , . . . . 

. . . . . Rs. ) . 
The amount is adjustable under Head " II — Union Excise Duties - Deduct Refund " , 
Date . . . . . . . . . 

Chief Accounts Officer , . . . . . . 
Cheque No .. . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . , issued in favour of 
Shri / M / s . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . for Rs. . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Rs.) . 
Date . . . . . . . . . . . 

Chief Accounts Officer , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Received Cheque No.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , dated . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
for Rs. . . . . . . . . . , . , . ( . . . 

. . . , . , . , Rs. ) . 
Date . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

Signature of Claimant 
(FOR EXPORT THROUGH ANY OTHER CHANNEL ) 
Certified that I have this day . . . . . 

. . . . . . . paid the sum of 
Rs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ( . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . . Rs.) in satisfaction of his / their claim , 
Place . . .. . 

Oficer -in - Charge, . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . , ipeasury , 
Date . . ... . . 


I 


I 


. . . . . . 


. . 


. . . 


dated . 


L: ARY 1, 1958 /MAGHA 12 , 1879 [PART II 

= = = = = 
APPENDIX II 

FORM C 
Bond (with security ) to be executed by exporters other than manufacturers of 

Vegetable Product. 
KNOW ALL MEN by these presents that I /We. . . . . . . . . . . . . 
of . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . . . registered under the Central Excise Collec 
torate , . . . . ! 

S . No . . . . . . . . . . 4 : , 

. . . . . . . . as the exporter ( s ) of vegetable 
product [hereinafter called “ the obligor ( s ) ” ] am / are jointly and severally bound 
unto the President of India (hereinafter referred to as " the Government" ) in 
the sum of Rs. , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . only to be paid to the Government for which 
payment well and truly to be made I /We jointly and severally bind myself / our 
selves and my / our respective heirs and legal representatives. 
Dated this . . . ... . . . . . . . day of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 195 

WHEREAS by a notification issued by the Central Government bearing 
No. 14 /58 - Central Exciscs , dated the 1st February 1958 , under the Central Excise 
Rules, 1944, the Central Goycrnment has directed a rebate of excise duty paid 
on the vegetable non - essential oils, other than cottonseed oil, used in the manu 
facture of vegetable product ind paid on such vegetable product at the rates 
mentioned in the said notification on its exportation to any country or territory 
out of India as mentioned therein 
AND WHEREAS the obligor ( s ) have exported , . . . , 

1 . . . , , . quantity of 
vegetable non - cssential oils / vegetable products and applied for rebate of duty 
in respect of the same on its exportation . 

AND WHEREAS under the said notification , the obligors are required to 
execute a bond agreeing to indemnify the Government in regard to 
any claim made against the Government by the manufacturer for refund in 
whole or in part of excise duty on such vegetable non - essential oils . 

AND WHEREAS in pursuance of the said provision the obligors have executed 
the bond as aforesaid . 

AND WHEREAS the obligors have deposited a sum of Rs. . . . . . . 
with the Collector of Central Excise at . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . as security for the 
bond , 

NOW THE CONDITION OF THE ABOVE WRITTEN obligation is that if at 
any time hereafter 9 refund of excise duty in respect of the said vegetable non 
essential oils becomes payable to the manufacturers for which refund has been 
granted to the exporter , then the obligors shall pay to the Government the 
amount of rebate , if any , sanctioned and paid by the Government to the obligors 
and upon the obligors making such payment to the Government, the aforesaid 
obligation shall be vo d otherwise and on breach or failure in the performance 
of the above " bligation , the same shall remain in full force and effect. 

AND IT IS HEREBY AGREED AND DECLARED that the Government shall 
be at liberty to make good all the loss or damage that may be incurred by the 
Government from the amount of deposit made by the obligors as aforesaid 
and that the same will not prejudice Government s right to enforce the above 
written bond 

AND IT IS HEREBY DECLARED that this bond is given under the orderg 
of the Central Government for the performance of an act in which public are 
interested . 


in pace against eine to aindmotificat: 


IN WITNESS WHEREOF . . . . . . . 

. . . . has /have put his / their 
ective hand / hands the day and the year hercin above written . 


Si ined and delivered by the within 

named obligors in the prosence of 


( 1 ) 


. . . . 


( 2 ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Accepted by . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . 

for and on behalf of the President 
of India , 


Sec. 8] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGHA 12, 1879 223 

= = = 
FORM D 
Bond (with surety ) to be executed by exporters other than manufacturers of 

Vegetable Product . 
KNOW ALL MEN by these presents that I/We. 
of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . registered under the Central Excise Collec 
torate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . .. No. . . . . . . . . . . ! !. . as the exporter ( s ) of vegetable 
product (hereinafter called " the obligor ( s ) ) and I . . . . . 
of . . . . . . . 

. . . . (hereinafter called “ the Surety " ) are jointly and severally bound 

. . There 
upto the President of India (hercinafter referred to as " the Government" ) in 
the sum of Rs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . only to be paid to the Government for which 
payment well and truly to be made we jointly and severally bind ourselves and 
our respective heirs and legal representatives 
Dated this . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . day of. 

. . . 195 
WHEREAS by a notification issued by thc Central Government bearing 
No . 14 /58- Central Excises, dated the 1st February 1958, under the Central Excise 
Rules , 1944 , the Central Government has directed a rebate of excise duty paid 
on the vegetable non - essential oils , other than cottonseed oil, used in the manu 
facture of vegetable product and paid on such vegetable product at the rates 
mentioned in the said notification on its exportation to any country or territory 
out of India as mentioned therein 
AND WHEREAS the obligor ( s ) have exported . . . 

. . . . quantity of 
vegetable , non - essential oils / vegetable products and applied for rebate of duty 
In respect of the same on its cxportation 

AND WHEREAS under the said notification , the obligors are required to 
cxecute a bond along with a surety agreeing to indemnify the Government in regard 
to any claim made against the Government by the manufacturer for refund in 
whole or in part of excise duty on such vegetable non - essential oils 

AND WHEREAS in pursuance of the said provision the obligor and the surety 
have executed the bond as aforesa d 

NOW THE CONDITION OF THE ABOVE WRITTEN OBLIGATION is that if 
at any time hcreafter a refund of excise duty in respect of the said vegetable , non 
essential oils becomes payable to the manufacturers for which refund has been 
granted to the exporter , then thc obligors and the surety shall pay to the Govern 
ment the amount of rebate , if any, sanctioned and paid by the Government to 
the obligors and upon the obligors and / or the Surety making such payment to 
the Government, the aforesaid obligation shull be void otherwise and on breach 
or failure in the performance of the above obligation , the same shall remain in 
full force and effect 

AND IT IS HEREBY agreed and declared that the Surcty shall not be dis 
charged or released of his liability hereunder by any arrangement made between 
the Government and the obligor either with or without his consent or by any 
other alteration in the obligation undertaken by the obligor as to payment, time. 
performance or otherwise . 

AND IT IS HEREBY DECLARED that this bond is given under the orders 
of the Central Government for the performance of an act in which public are 
interested . 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have put their respective hands 
the day and the year herein above written . 
Signed and delivered by the within 

named obligors in the presence of 

( 1 ) 

( 2 ) 
Signed and delivered by the within 

named surety in the presence of 

( 1 ) 


. . 


. . . . 


. . . . 


. 


. . . . 


. 


Accepted by . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

for and on behalf of the President 
of India , 


[No. 14 / $ 8 .] 
S. K . BHATTACHARJI , Dy. Secy 


LE 


224 DIE GAZET LE OI INDIA FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGHA 12 , 1879 [Parr II 
= - 

- - - - - - 
( Department of Revenue) 

ORDER 

STAMPS 

New Delhi, the 21st January 1958 
S . R . O . 367 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 ( 2 of 1899 ) , the Central Government, 
with effect from the date of issue of this Order , reduces by one half stamp duty 
chargeable on mortgages without possession executed by industrial concerns in 
the Union territory of Delhi in favour of the Punjab Financial Corporation . 

[No. 3. ] 

M . PANCHAPPA , Under Secy . 
- - - 
CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE , DELHI 

(CENTRAL EXCISE ) 

New Delhi, the 21st January 1958 
S .R . O . 368.4I. in pursuance of Rule 5 of the Central Excise Rules , 1944 , 
empower the Central Excise Omcers specified in the following table , to exercise 
the powers and perform the functions of the Inspector specified in the Central 
Excise Rules , mentioned in column ( 2 ) of the said table . 

TABLE 


Rank of Officer 


Central Excisc Rule 


Limitations, if any 


Supervisors 


IS 


To allow clerances of tobacco 
from Bonded wherchouses of 
Class III and IV categories 
only . 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


[ C . No, IV (8 ) 1 / 57 / 3295. ] 

R . PRASAD , Collector. 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE , BOMBAY 


NOTICE 

Bombay, the ist. February , 1958 . 
S . R . O . 369. -- Whicicas it appears that the marginally noted unclaimed goods which were 
( 1) Country madc liquor Thirty four full seized by the Inspector of Central Excise , 
caryas . 

Karmal at the spots known as Juna Male Hol 
( 2 ) Country mide liquor Twenty two full Hill Sari and Tinai khuti Sari on Goa border 
bottles . 

on 20 -5 -1957 were imported by land from GOR 
(3 ) Country Kaju Liquor Twenty three full in contravention of Section 5 ( 1 ) of the Land 
bottles, 

Customs Act 1924 and the Government of 
Fine Old Brandy Fifty Six - full bottles. India , Ministry of Commerce & Industries 
St . Pauli Girl Bear One full bottlc . Import Trade (Control) Order No. 17 / 55 dated 
Country Liquor (Mada) one small full 7 - 12 -55 issued under the Import & Export 
carya , 

(Control) Act 1947 and deemed to have been 
) Gany Bags (Empty ) Tare Twenty four , issued under section 19 of the Sea Customs 
Rice Approx . I 1 /4 B . Mds . 

Act 1878 the Goa Country liquor was imported 
(9 ) Coconuts Nine. 

in contravention of the Government of India 
( 10 ) Old five aliirts and one old half pant. Finance Department Notification No. 2 Camp 
(II) Indian Currency coins . One win of Cus , dated 26 - 1 - 1946 issued under Section 19 
Two ( CiU ) Anjihs. 

of the Sea Custom Act 1878. Now therefore any 
( 12 ) Portuguese Currency Coins - One coin of person claming the goods is hereby called upon , 

one Tinga. 


SEC. 8 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1, 1958 /MAGHA 12, 1879 


225 


O show cause to thc Collector of Central Excise , Bombay why the above mentioned goods and 
coins should notbe confiscated under Section 5 ( 3 ) of the Land Customs Act 1924 read with Sections 
167 (8 ) and 168 of the Sea CustomsAct 1878 and why a penalty should notbe imposed on him under 
Section 7 ( I ) (c ) of the Land Customs Act 192ed with Section 167 (8 ) of the Sea Custoins 
Act 1878 . 

If such an owner fails to turn up to claim the above mentioned unclaimed goods or to show 
causc ag #inst the action proposed to be taken within 30 days from the publication of this notice in 
the Government of India Gazette, the goods in question will be treated as unclaimed and the case 
will be decided accordingly . 

[No. VIII (b )10 (106)Cus/ 57.] 

T . C . SETH , Collector, 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 


INCOME- TAX 


New Delhi, the 23rd January 1958 


S . R . O . 370 . — The following draft of a further amendment in the Indian 
Income- tax Rules , 1922, which the Central Board of Revenue proposes to make 
in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) , read with clause ( a ) 
of sub - section ( 2 ) , of section 59 of the Indian Income- tax Act , 1922 ( 11 of 1922 ) , 
is published as required by sub - section ( 4 ) of the said section , for the informa 
tion of all persons likely to be affected thereby, and notice is hereby given that 
the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 1st March , 1958 . 


2 . Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft on or before the date so specified will be considered 
by the said Board . 


Draft Amendment 
In the said rules, after rule 13D , the following rule shall be inserted , 
namely : 


" 13E . The estimate of tax which an assessee has to communicate to the 

Income- tax Officer under sub -section ( 2 ) or sub -section ( 3 ) of 
section 18A shall be in the following form : - - 


Form for communication to the Income- tax Officer of an assessee s estimate 
of the tax payable by him under section 18A calculated on his estimated income 
to which this section applies . 


Sub -section applicable : 

Sub -section (2 ) of Section 18A 

Sub -section ( 3) of Section 18A 
Name of the assessCC : 
Status ( Please state whether individual, Hindu 

undivided family , Firm , Company, Local 
authority or an Association of Persons ). 
Re ident and Ordinarily Resident /Resident 

but not Ordinarily Resident/Non - resident, 
Addross : 
In the case of a firm , plcase state : 

whether firm has been registered in last completed assessment . 
whether firm has submitted an application for regi ttalion , 

(Date of application should be given ). 
In the case of a non -resident , please state whether option in terms of the proviso to section 17 (1 ) 

has becn exercised and if so , the date of the exercise of the option 


(PART II 


- 


- 


226 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1, 1958 /MAGHA 12, 1879 
= = 

The tax payable by the assessce named above for the previous year ending on 
is estimated as follows : - - 
1. Estimated total income 


( 1) Incomeassessable under section 7 : 


Rs . . . . . . . . . 


( 2 ) Income assessable under section 8 : 


Rs. ..... . . . 


( 3 ) Income assessable under section 9 : 


( give delails of each property) 
Address Annal Net income 

value 
Rs. 

Rs. 
Total 


Rs. 


. . . . . 


(4 ). Income assesouble under section 10 : 


Address 


(a ) Proprie - Name 

tary 
Business : 


Rs. . . . . . . 


ii ) 


Rs. . . . . . . 


( b ) Partnership Name of Address 

Business : the firin 


Whether firm has Share 
been registered of 
in the last income 
completed 
assessment. 


(i ) 


Ry, . . , . . 


(11) 


. . . . . . . 


( 111) 


Rs. . . . . . . . 


( c) Income from Association of Persons 

Total 


Rs. . . . . . . 


(5) Incomeaseessable under section 12 : 


Rs . . . . . . . 


( i) Dividends : 


( ii) Interest : 


Rs. . . . . . . . 


(iii) Other items 


Total 


Rs. . . . . . . 


Totalincome 


Rs. . . . . . 


2 . Adjustment to tolul income to 

arrive at " total World income 
in the case of a non - iaidcat ; 


Rs. . . . . . . 


SEC. 8 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1, 1958 /MAGHA 12, 1879 


227 


3 . Total World Income 


Rs. . . . . . 


Incomc- tax 

Rs. 


Super- 1AX 

Rs. 


Gross income-tax and super- tex chargeable on total world 

income ( in the case of a non - resident only ) 
Grossincome- tax and super - tax chargeable on " total income" . 


Sums included in total incomein respect 
of which no advance tax is payable . 


Rs. 


(1) income 1o which the provisions 

of sec . 18 apply : 
(ii) share from an unregistered firm 

on which the tax will be paid by 

the firm ( clausc(a ) of sec . 14 ( 2 )] 
(it) amount of tax payable by a 

registered firm ( clause (aa ) of 

sec , 14 ( 2 ) ] 
ivi share from an Ajgociation of 

persons on which tax will be 
paid by the Association 

( clause ( b ) of Section 14 (2 ) ). 
(v ) interest on tex free securities : 
( vi) Life Insurance Premia : 


To al amount on which tax is aut for I. T . for S . T . 
payable and proportionale fax Rs. Rs. 

thercoli : 
DEDUT 

( i) amount by which the ne : dividend income, if any, 
is increased . 


( ii) any excess tax on income on which income- tax 
and super -tax is deductible under » ection 18 . 

(iii ) rebate on Corporation Tux admissible under 
Section 54- A . 

(iv ) rabate on Corporation Tax admissible under the 
provisions of the Current Finance Act. 


Net amount of income-tax and super -1ax : 

Less amount on account of estimated double income- trx 
relief , if any, under Section 49A and 490 . 


Net amount payable : 

Less tax already paid in the financial year under Section 
18A ( 1) or Section 18A ( 3 ) : 


Balance payable : 


Date : 
Place ; - 


- 


Signature of the person making the estimate . 


* Status - 


- 


To 


The Income-tex Oficer , 


* The estimate of income should bcsigacd . 


228 


THE GAZET IE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1 , 1958 /MAGHA 12 , 1879 ( Part. II 
= = = - - =- = - = = = = . = - =- = 

- -- = = = = = 
( 1 ) in the case of an individual by the individual himself , 
( 2 ) in the case of a Hindu Undivided Fam ly by the Manager or Karta . 
( 3 ) in the case of a company or local authority by the Principal Officer , 
( 4 ) in the case of a firm by a partner , 

(5 ) in the case of an Association of Persons by a member of the Association . 
NOTE , - In the case of a registered firm , the firm has to submit an estimate of 
- the tax payable , if any, by the firm under para. D of the Schedule to the Indian 
Finance Act, 1957. The individual partners have also to submit an estimate of 
the income of each including therein the share income from the registered 
partnership ." 

[No. 6 ( F . No. 12 ( 4 ) - IT / 57 ) .] 

P . N . DAS GUPTA, Secy . 


ESTATE DUTY 

New Delhi, the 25th January 1958 
S .R . O . 371.- In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub -section ( 2 ) of Section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953, ( 34 of 1953 ) , the Central 
Bcard of Revenue hereby directs that every Inspecting Assistant Commissioner 
of Income- tax , Estate Duty Range , Patna, appointed to be a Deputy Controller and 
.exercising jurisdiction over the Estate Duty cum Incometax Circles, Patna and 
Ranchi, shall perform his functions as Deputy Controller in the said Circles to the 
exclusion of all other Deputy Controllers in respect of the estates of all deceased 
persons who immediately before their death were being , or would have been , 
assessed to Income-tax , had they derived any taxable income in any Income- tax 
Circle within the jurisdiction of the Commissioner of Income-tax , Bihar and Orissa , 
Patna . 


Explanatory Note 
( This note is not part of the Notification but is intended merely to be clarifica 
tory ) . 

The purpose of this Notification is to clarify that the Inspecting Assistant 
Commissioner of Income-tax , Estate Duty Range , is to perform the functions of a 
Deputy Controller of Estate Duty in relation to the Estate Duty cum Income- tax 
Circles within the charge of the Commissioner of Income- tax , Bihar & Orissa , to 
the exclusion of all other Inspecting Assistant Commissioners, 

[No. 19 / F . No . 34 / 3 / 57 -E .D .) 


S .R . O . 372 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 4 of the Estate Duty Act , 1953, ( 34 of 1953 ) , the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that every Inspecting Assistant Commissioner of 
Income- tax , Estate Duty Range , Lucknow , appointed to be a Deputy Controller and 
exercising jurisdiction over the Estate Duty cum Income- tax Circles, Kanpur, 
Lucknow , Meerut and Varanasi, shall perform his functions as Deputy Controller 
In the said Circles to the exclusion of all other Deputy Controllers in respect of 
the estates of all deceased persons who immediately before their death were being, 
or would have been , assessed to Income- tax , had they derived any taxable income 
in any Income-tax Circle within the jurisdiction of the Commissioner of Income- tax , 
Uttar Pradesh , Lucknow . 


Explanatory Note 
( This note is not part of the Notification but is intended merely to be clarlica 
tory ) . 

The purpose of this Notification is to clarify that the Inspecting Assistant 
Commissioner of Income- tax , Estate Duty Range , is to perform the funrtions of a 
Deputy Controller of Estate Duty in respect of the Estate Duty cum Income- tax 
Circles within the charge of the Commissioner of Income-tax , Uttar Pradesh , to the 
exclusion of all other Inspecting Assistant Commissioners. 

[No, 20 / F .No. 34 / 3 / 57 - E . D . ) 


= 


= 


SEC . 9 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGHA 12, 1879 229 

- 

- = = - = 
S . R . O . 373. — In cxercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 4 of the Estate Duty Act , 1953 ( 34 of 1953 ) , the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby chrects that every lnspecting Assistant Commissioner of 
Income- tax , Estate Duty Range , Simla , appointed to be a Deputy Controller and 
exercising jurisdiction over the Estate Duty cum Income- tax Circles, Amritsar and 
Patiala , shall perform his functions as Deputy Contioller in the said Circles to 
the exclusion of all other Deputy Controllers in respect of the estates of all 
deceased persons who immediately before their death were being , or would have 
been , assessed to Income-tax , had they derived any taxable income in any Income 
tax Circle within the jurisdiction of the Commissioner of Income-tax , Punjab , 
Jammự and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh . 

Explanatory Note 
( This note is not part of the Notification but is intended merely to be clarifica 
tory ) . 

The purpose of this Notification is to clarify that the Inspecting Assistant 
Commissioner of Income- tax , Estate Duty Range , is to perform the functions of a 
Deputy Controller of Estate Duty in relation to the Estate Duty cum Income- tax 
Circles within the charge of the Commissioner of Income- tax , Punjab , Jammu and 
Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh , 10 the exclusion of all other Inspecting Assistant 
Commissioners. 

[No, 21 / F .No. 34 / 3 /57- E .D . ) 


S . R . O . 374 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 4 of the Estate Duty Act , 1953, ( 34 of 1953 ) , the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that every Inspecting Assistant Commissioner of 
Income-tax , Estate Duty Range, Nagpur, appointed to be a Deputy Controller and 
exercising jurisdiction over the Estate Duty cum Income-tax Circle, Nagpur, shall 
perform his functions of all other Deputy Controller in the said Circle to the 
exclusion of all other Deputy Controllers in respect of the estates of all deceased 
persons who immediately before their death were being , Or would have been , 
assessed to Income- tax , had they derived any taxable income in any Income- tax 
Circle within the jurisdiction of the Commissioner of Income-tax , Madhya Pradesh 
and Bhandara , Nagpur 

Explanatory Note 
( This note is not part of the Notifcation but is intended merely to be clarifica 
tory ) . 

The purpose of this Notification is to clarify that the Inspecting Assistant 
Commissioner of Income- tax , Estatę Duty Range, is to perform the functions of a 
Deputy Controller of Estate Duty in relation to the Estate Duty cum Income- tax 
Circle within the charge of the Commissioner of Income- tax , Madhya Pradesh and 
Bhandara , Nagpur, to the exclusion of all other Inspecting Assistant Commissioners . 

[No. 22 / F . No. 34 / 3 / 57 - E .D . 


S . R . O . 375 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 4 of the Estate Duty Act , 1953, ( 34 of 1953 ) , the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that every Inspecting Assistant Commissioner of 
Income- tax , Estate Duty Range , Ernakulam , appointed to be a Deputy Controller 
and exercising jurisdiction over the Estate Duty cum Income- tax Circles , 
Coimbatore and Ernakulam , shall perform his functions as Deputy Controller in 
the said Circles to the exclusion of all other Deputy Controllers in respect of the 
estates of all deceased persons who Immediately before their death were being , or 
would have been , assessed to Income- tax , had they derived any taxable income in 
any Income- tax Circle within the jurisdiction of the Commissioner of Income- tax , 
Kerala , Coimbatore. 

Explanatory Note 
( This note is not part of the Notification but is intended merely to be clarifica 
tory ) . 

The purpose of this Notification is to clarify that the Inspecting Assistant 
Commissioner of Income- tax , Estate Duty Range , is to perform the functions of a 
Deputy Controller of Estate Duty in relation to the Estate Duty cum Income - tax 
Circles within the charge of the Commissioner of Income- tax , Kerala , to the 
exclusion of all other Inspccting Assistant Commissioners. 

[No, 23 / F . No. 34 / 3 / 57 - E .D . L 


- - 


230 THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : FEBRUARY 1, 1958 /MAGHA 12, 1879 [Part II 

- - - - - - - - - 
S . R . O . 376 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 ( 34 of 1953 ) , the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that every Inspecting Assistant Cornmissioner of 
Income-tax , Estate Duty Range, Bangalore, appointed to be a Deputy Controller and 
exercising jurisdiction over the Estate Duty cum Income- tax Circle , Bangalore, shall 
perform his functions as Deputy Controller in the said Circle to the exclusion of all 
other Deputy Controllers in respect of the estates of all deceased persons who 
Immediately before their death were being , or would have been , assessed to Income 
tax , had they derived any taxable income in any Income-tax Circle within the 
jurisdiction of the Commissioner of Income- tax , Mysore , Bangalore, 


Explanatory Note 
( This note is not part of the Notification but is intended merely to be clarifica 
tory ). 

The purpose of this Notifcation is to clarify that the Insperting Assistant 
Commissioner of Income- tax , Estate Duty Range, is to perform the functions of a 
Deputy Controller of Estate Duty in relation to the Estate Duty cum Income- tax 
Circle within the charge of the Commissioner of Income- tax, Mysore, to the exclu 
sion of all other Inspecting Assistant Commissioners. 

[ No, 24 / F . No. 34 / 3 / 57 - E .D . ] 


S . R . O . 377 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 4 of the Estate Duty Act , 1953 ( 34 of 1953 ) , the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that every Inspecting Assistant Commissioner of 
Income- tax , Estate Duty Range , Shillong, appointed to be a Deputy Controller and 
exercising jurisdiction over the Estate Duty cum Income- tax Circle, Dibrugarh , 
shall perform his functions as Deputy Controller in the said Circle to the exclusion 
of all other Deputy Controllers in respect of the estates of all deceased persons 
who immediately before their death were being , or would have been , assessed to 
Income- tax , had they derived any taxable income in any Income-tax Circle within 
the jurisdiction of the Commissioner of Income - tax , Assam , Shillong . 


Explanatory Note 
( This note is not part of the Notification but is intended merely to be clarifica 
tory ) . 

The purpose of this Notification is to clarify that the Inspecting Assistant 
Commissioner of Income- tax , Estate Duty Range , is to perform the functions of a 
Deputy Controller of Estate Duty in relation to the Estate Duty cum Income- tax 
Circle within the charge of the Commissioner of Income- tax , Assam , to the exclusion 
of all other Inspecting Assistant Commissioners . 

[No, 25 / F . No. 34 / 3 / 57 - E .D . ] 


S . R . O . 378 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 4 of the Estate Duty Act , 1953 ( 34 of 1953 ) , the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that every Inspecting Assistant Commissioner of 
Income- tax , Estate Duty Range, Delhi, appointed to be a Deputy Controller and 
exercising jurisdiction over the Estate Duty cum Income- tax Circles, Delhi and 
Jalpur, shall perform his functions as Deputy Controller in the said Circles to the 
exclusion of all deceased persons who immediately before their death were being , 
or would have been , assessed to Income- tax, had they derived any taxable income 
In any Income- tax Circle within the jurisdiction of the Commissioner of Income- tax , 
Delhi and Rajasthan , 


Explanatory Note 
( This note is not part of the Notifcation but is intended merely to be clariAca 
tory ) . 

The purpose of this Notification is to clarify that the Inspecting Assistant 
Commissioner of Income-tax , Estate Duty Range, is to perform the functions of a 
Deputy Controller of Estate Duty in relation to the Estate Duty cum Income- tax 
Circles within the charge of the Commissioner of Income- tax , Delhi and Rajasthan , 
to the exclusion of all other Inspecting Assistant Commissioners . 

[No. 28 / F , No. 34 / 3 / 57 - E . D .] 


- 


- 


SEC . 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGHA 12 , 1879 231 

- - - - - - - - - 

- = = = = = = = = 
S . R . O . 879 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to sub 
section ( 2 ) of Section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 ( 34 of 1953) , the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that every Inspecting Assistant Commissioner of 
Income- tax , Estate Duty Range, Calcutta , appointed to be a Deputy Controller 
and exercising jurisdiction over the Estate Duty cum Încome - tax Circles , 
Calcutta (Mofussil) and Jalpaiguri, shall perform his functions as Deputy Con 
troller in the said Circles to the exclusion of all other Deputy Controllers in 
respect of the estates of all deceased persons who immediately before their death 
were being , or would have been , assessed to Income- tax , had they derived any 
taxable income in any Income-tax Circle within the jurisdiction of the following 
Commissioners of Income- tax : 

( 1) West Bengal, 
( 2 ) Calcutta , 
(3 ) (Central) Calcutta . 


Explanatory Note 
( This note is not part of the Notification but is intended merely to be clarificatory ). 

The purpose of this Notification is to clarify that the Inspecting Assistant Com . 
missioner of Income-tax, Estate Duty Range, is to perform the functions of a 
Deputy Controller of Estate Duty in relation to the Estate Duty cum Income- tax 
Circles within the charges of the Commissioners of Income- tax , West Bengal, 
Calcutta , ( Central) Calcutta , to the exclusion of all other Inspecting Assistant 
Commissioners . 


[No. 27/ F . No . 34 / 3 /57- E .D .] 


S . R . O . 380 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to pub 
section ( 2 ) of Section 4 of the Estate Duty Act , 1953 ( 34 of 1953 ) , the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that every Inspecting Assistant Commissioner 
of Income- tax, Estate Duty Range , Bombay , appointed to be a Deputy Controller 
and exercising jurisdiction over the Estate Duty cum Income- tax Circle , Bombay, 
shall perform his functions as Deputy Controller in the said Circle to the exclusion 
of all other Deputy Controllers in respect of the estates of all deceased persons 
who immediately before their death were being, or would have been , assessed to 
Income- tax , had they derived any taxable income in any Income- tax Circle within 
the jurisdiction of the following Commissioners of Income- tax : 

( 1) Bombay City I. 
( 2 ) Bombay City II. 
( 3 ) Bombay ( Central) . 


Explanatory Note 
( This note is not part of the Notification but is intended merely to be clarificatory ). 

The purpose of this Notification is to clarify that the Inspecting Assistant 
Commissioner of Income- tax , Estate Duty Range, is to perform the functions of a 
Deputy Controller of Estate Duty in relation to the Estate Duty cum Income - tax 
Circle within the charges of the Commissioners of Income- tax , Bombay City I , 
Bombay City II and Bombay ( Central ), to the exclusion of all other Inspecting 
Assistant Commissioners . 


[No. 28 / F . No. 34 / 3 /57. ) 


S . R . O . 381. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to sub 
section ( 2 ) of Section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 ( 34 of 1953 ) , the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that every Inspecting Assistant Commissioner 
of Income- tax , Estate Duty Range, Ahmedabad , appointed to be a Deputy Con 
troller and exercising jurisdiction over the Estate Duty cum Income- tax Circles, 
Ahmedabad , Baroda , Rajkot and Surat, shall perform his functions as Deputy 
Controller in the said Circles to the exclusion of all other Deputy Controllers in 
respect of the estates of all deceased persons who immediately before their death 
were being , or would have been , assessed to Income - tax , had they derived any 
taxable income in any Income-tax Circle within the jurisdiction of the Com 
missioner of Income- tax , Bombay North , Ahmedabad . 


232 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; FEBRUARY 1, 1958 /MAGHA 12, [r II 
= = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = 

Explanatory Note 
( This note is not part of the Notification but is intended merely to be clarificatory ) , 

The purpose of this Notification is to clarify that the Inspecting Assistant 
Commissioner of Income- tax , Estate Duty Range , is to perform the functions of 
a Deputy Controller of Estate Duty in relation to the Estate Duty cum Income- tax 
Circles within the charge of the Commissioner of Income- tax , Bombay North , to 
the exclusion of all other Inspecting Assistant Commissioners . 

[ No . 29 / F. No . 34 /3 /57-E .D .) 


S . R . O . 882. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to sub 
section ( 2 ) of section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 ( 34 of 1959 ) , the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that every Inspecting Assistant Commissioner 
of Income- tax , Estate Duty Range , Poona , appointed to be a Deputy Controller 
and exercising jurisdiction over the Estate Duty cum Income- tax Circle , Poona , 
shall perform his functions as Deputy Controller in the said Circle to the exclusion 
of all other Deputy Controllers in respect of the estates of all deceased persons 
who immediately before their death were being, or would have been , assessed to 
Income- tax , had they derived any taxable income in any Income- tax Circle within 
the jurisdiction of the Commissioner of Income-tax , Bombay South , Bombay . 


Explanatory Note 
( This note is not part of the Notification but is intended merely to be clarificatory ) . 

The purpose of this Notification is to clarify that the Inspecting Assistant 
Commissioner of Income- tax , Estate Duty Range , is to perform the functions of 
a Deputy Controller of Estate Duty in relation to the Estate Duty cum Income- tax 
Circle within the charge of the Commissioner o # Income- tax , Bombay South , to 
the exclusion of all other Inspecting Assistant Commissioners . 


[No. 30 / F . No. 34 / 3 /57 - E . D . ) 


S . R . O . 383. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to sub 
section ( 2 ) of section 4 of the Estate Duty Act , 1953 ( 34 of 1953 ) , the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that every Inspecting Assistant Commissioner 
of Income- tax , Estate Duty Range, Madras , appointed to be a Deputy Controller 
and exercising jurisdiction over the Estate Duty cum Income- tax Circles , Madras, 
Madhurai and Salem , shall perform his functions as Deputy Controller in the said 
Circle to the exclusion of all other Deputy Controllers in respect of the estates 
of all deceased persons who immediately before their death were being , or would 
have been , assessed to Income- tax , had they derived any taxable income in any 
Income- tax Circle within the jurisdiction of the Commissioner of Income- tax , 
Madras. 


Explanatory Note 
( This note is not part of the Notification but is intended merely to be clarificatory ) . 

The purpose of this Notification is to clarify that the Inspecting Assistant 
Commissioner of Income- tax , Estate Duty Range , is to perform the functions of 
a Deputy Controller of Estate Duty in relation to the Estate Duty cum Income- tax 
Circles within the charge of the Commissioner of Income- tax , Madras, to the 
exclusion of all other Inspecting Assistant Commissioners . 


(No. 31/ F , No. 34 / 3 /87 - E .D . ) 


S . R . O , 384 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to sub 
section ( 2 ) of section 4 of the Estate Duty Act , 1963 ( 34 of 1953 ) , the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that every Inspecting Assistant Commissioner 
of Income- tax , Estate Duty Range , Hyderabad , appointed to be a Deputy Con 
troller and exercising jurisdiction over the Estate Duty cum Income- tax Circles . 
Hyderabad and Vijayawada, shall perform his functions as Deputy Controller in 
the said Circles to the exclusion of all other Deputy Controllers in respect of the 
estates of all deceased persons who immediately before their death were being , or 
would have been , assessed to Incomertax , had they derived any taxable income 
in any Income - tax Circle within the jurisdiction of the Commissioner of Income 
tax , Andhra Pradesh , Hyderabad - Deccan . 


Sec . 8 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1, 1958 /MAGHA 12 , 1879 
- - = - - - - - - = = = - - --- - - -- - = = = = = = 

Explanatory Note 
( This note is not part of the Notification but is intended merely to be clarificatory ) . 

The purpose of this Notification is to clarify that the Inspecting Assistant 
Commissioner of Income- tax , Estate Duty Range , is to perform the functions of 
a Deputy Controller of Estate Duty in relation to the Estate Duty cum Incomc- tax 
Circles within the charge of the Commissioner of Income- tax , Andhra Pradesh , to 
the exclusion of all other Inspecting Assistant Commissioners 

I No . 32/ F . No . 34 / 3 /57-E .D .] 

B . M . MITRA, Socy . 


CINTRAL EXCISE 
New Delhi, the 1st February 1958 


S . R . O . 385 . - In pursuence of the proviso to sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 32 of the 
Contial Excise Rules, 1944, the Centri Bard of Lvovenye herely directs that the 
following further amendment shall bc mnade in its notification No. 24 - Central 
Excises, dated the 23rd July , 1949, as subsequently amended , namely : 
In the said notification , for sub -items ( i ) and ( il ) of item ( d ), the words 

" exceeding twentyſive standard maunds of duty - paid tobacco" shall 
be substituted . 

[ No. 15 / 58 .] 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


CUSTUMIS 

NP Delhi, the 1st February 1958 
S . R . O , 386 , - - In exercise of the powers confcrred by clause ( c ) of section 9 
of the Sea Customs Act , 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , the Central Board of Revenue hereby 
makes the following amendment in thr Central Board of Revenue Notification 
No. 3 - Customs dated the 8th January , 1955 , namely : 
In the rulc published with the said notification after the words " he shall 

make a claim in writing in that behalf ” the words " under his 
signature " shall be inserted , 

[No. 23 .] 
S . K . BHATTACHARJEE , Secy . 


CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 1st February 1958 
S . R . O . 387. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 79 of the Sea 
Customs Act , 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , the Central Board of Revenue hereby makes the 
following further amendment in the rules published with its notification No. 111 
Customs, dated the 9th September , 1950 , namely : -- 
In rule 1 of the said rules , for the words " in Saurashtra State and Port 

Commissioner and Harbour Engineer , Kutch , in Kutch State" , the 
words " in the Halar , Gohilwar , Madhya Saurashtra , Zalawad and 
Sorath Districts , and the Port Omcer and Harbour Engineer, Kutch , 
in the Kutch District, of the State of Bombay " shall be substituted . 

[No. 19.] 
B . D . DESHMUKH , Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

New Delhi, the 23rd January 1958 
S . R . O . 388, - - The Rajya Sabha having elected Shri K . P . Madhavan Nair as 
a member of the Coir Board to represent Parliament ( Rajya Sabha ) in the said 
Board , the Central Government in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( c ) 
of sub - section ( 3 ) of sertion 4 of the Coir Industry Act, 1953 (45 of 1953 ) , read 


234 

THE GAZEITE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1 , 1958 /MAGHA 12. 1879 [PART II 
- - 

- - - - - 
with sub - rulc ( 1 ) of rule 4 and sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 5 of the Coir Industry Rules , 
1954 , herehy appoints the said Shri K . P Madhavan Nair as a member of the 
said Board for the period beginning with the date of this notifration and ending 
with the 25th day of July , 1960 . 

[No. F.42-S $ 1( B )( 34 )/ 57.) 
M . S . SADASIVAN , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 23rd January 1958 
S . R . O . 389. — In cxercise of the powers conferred on me by clause 20 of the 
Cotton Control Order, 1955 , and with the previous sanction of the Central Goy 
ernment, I hereby direct that the following further amendments shall be made in 
the Textile Commissioner s Notification No. S . R . O . 1104 dated the 28th April, 
1956 , namely : 
In the schedule appended to the said notification , 
In column 2 , against serial Nou 1, 2 and 2A ; for Cotton Adviser , the follow 

ing shall be substituted , namely : 
" Director (Cotton ) " . 

(Sd ) V . NANJAPPA , 

Textile Commissioner , 

[No. 24 (3 ) - TEX ( A ) / 58- 1.] 
S . R . O . 390 .- In exercise of the powers conferred on me by sub - clausc ( 1 ) 
of clause 3 of the Cotton Control Order, 1955 , I hereby direct that the following 
further amendment shall be made in the Textile Commissioner s Notification 
No. S .R . O . 3100 , dated the 24th September, 1957 , namely ;-- 
In schedule B appended to the said notification for the words and letters, 

" Shri D . N . Mahta " , the following shall be substituted , namely : - - 
" Shri R . D . Shah " . 

(Sd.) V . NANJAPPA , 

Textile Commissioner . 
[No. 24 ( 3 ) - TEX ( A ) / 58 - 2 . ] 


tu 


Bombay , the 9th January 1958 
S . R . O . 391. - In exercise of the powers conferred on me by clause 22 of the 
Cotton Textiles (Control ) Order , 1948 , I hereby cancel the Textile Commissioner s 
NotiAcation No. 9 (9 ) - Tex - 1 / 49 ( i), dated 6th July , 1950 . 

( Sd.) V . NANJAPPA , 
Textile Commissioner , 

[No. TC ( 23 ) / 50 .) 
New Delhi, the 25th January 1958 
S . R . O . 392 .. . In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Dhoties 
( Additional Excise Duty ) Act, 1953 ( 39 of 1953), and in supersession of the 
Dhoties Fixation of Collective Quota Kules , 1953, the Central Government hereby 
makes the following rules , namely : - - 

1. Short title . These rules may be called the Dhoties (Fixation of Collective 
Quota ) Rules, 1958 . 
2. Definitions. In these rules, - 
(a ) " the Act” means the Dhoties (Additional Excise Duty ) Act, 1953 ( 39 of 

1953 ) . 
( b ) " collective quota " , in relation to a group of mills , means the permis 

sible quota of dhoties which may be issued out of that group of 
mills as a whole during a quarter as flxed under sub - section ( 3 ) of 

section 3 of the Act . 
3 . Application for collective quota . — ( 1 ) Any group of mills desirous of having 
a collective quota of dhoties Axed for that group may make an application for 
that purpose to the Textile Commissioner to the Government of India in the 
form annexed to these rules, 


SEC. 3] TUE GAZET TE OF INDII FEBRUIRY 1, 1958 /X4GHI 12, 1879 235 
- - = ! - - - - - 

== - = - - ---- - - 
( 2 ) An application under sub -rule ( 1 ) shall be made so as to reach the Textile 
Commissioner at least thirty days before the coinmencement of the quarter with 
effect from which the collective quota is desired to be fixed : 


Provided that the application for having the collective quota fixed with effect 
from the quarter ending on the 31st day of March , 1958, may be made so as to 
reach the Textile Commissioner before the 15th February, 1958 . 


1 . Procedure for fi ration of collectire quota . - ( 1 ) On receipt of an application 
from a group of mills under rule 3 , the Textile Commissioner may , after making 
such inquiries for verification of the particulars stated in the application 
And also such other inquiries as he dcems necessary , fix by order in wiiting the 
collective quota for that group . 


( 2 ) If, on receipt of any application in this behalf or otherwise , the Textile 
Commissioner is cf opinion that the collective quota Axed for a group of millg 
should be revised , he may , after glving the mills concerned opportunity of 
showing cause , cancel, vary or amend the order hy which the collective quota 
for that group of mills has hcen Axed . 


( 3 ) A copy of every order made under sub - rule ( 1 ) or sub -rule ( 2 ) shall be 
sent to the mills concerned and also to the Central Excise Omrers in charge 
of the said mills . 


5 . Mills th furnish information etc . — The mills applying for a collective quota 
under rule 3 shall produce or cause to be produced such documents or furnish 
such information as the Textile Commissioner may from time to time require in 
support of the application , 


FORM OF APPLICATION 

( See rule 3 ) 


Important. This form should be completed and sent to the office of the 
Textile Commissioner , CST Section , Ballard Estate , Bombay - 1. 


Mills are advised in their interests to post the returns under a certificate of 
posting or by registered post with an acknowledgment due. 


1 . Name of the mills which desire to form a group for the purpose of 

collective quota , 
2 . Address of each mill in the group , 
3 . Tex-mark No. of each mill in the group . 
4 . State / States in which the mills are situated . 
5 . Name and address of the Managing Agents. 
6 . Permissible quota for each mill in accordance with the provisions of 

the Dhoties (Additional Excise Duty ) Act , 1953 . 
7 . Reasons why a collective quota for the group of mills is desired . 
8. The quarter with effect from which the collective quota is desired to be 

fixed . 
I hereby declare that the particulars given above, in so far as I can ascertain , 
are accurate and complete . 


Signature of the Managing Agents . 


DATE , 
PLACE . 


[ No. 2 ( 7) - TEX ( A ) / 58 - 1. ) 
V . V . NENE, Under Secy, 


236 
= == = 


[PART II 
= - = 


= 


ITIE GAZE ( TE OF INDLI : 1FBRUARY 1, 1958 /MAGHA 12, 1879 
- = - = - = - = 

= = = = = = = 

ORDERS 
New Delhi, the 25th January 1958 


S . R . O . 393 / IDRA / 6 / 7 / Am . ( 4 ). In cxercise of the powers conferred by scction 
6 of the Industries (Development and Regulation ) Act, 1951 (05 of 1951) , the 
Central Government hereby declares that the Development ( ouncil established for 
the scheduled industries cngaged in the nahuldrture and production of pharmaceu 
ticals and drugs, under the Governinent of India , late Ministry of Heavy Industries 
Order No S .RO. 593 dated the 23rd February 1957, shall be re-designed as the 
Development Council for Drugs , Dyes and Intermediates , and directs that the 
following anicncmcnts shall be made in SR . O . 593 afurcsaid : 
In the opening paragraph of the sald Order 
( a ) for the words " Development Council for the schedulcd industries engaged 

In the manufacturc and production of pharmaceuticals and drugs " , 
the words " Development Council for this yheduled industries engaged 
in the manufacture and production of Drugs, Dyes and Intermediates" 

shall be substituted ; 
(b ) in the çntries against " being persons who in the opinion of the Central 

Government are l ap ible of representing the Interests of owners of 
industrial undertakings in the sanci schedulcri industries ” , after entry 
No . 5 relating to Dr. K . A , Hamled , the following entries shall be 

inserted , namely : 
" SA . Shri Siddarth Kasturbhai, The Atul Products Ltd ., Post Atul (Via ) 

Bulsar W . Rly . 
5B . Shri J . H . Doshi, Director , The Amar Dye- Chem . Ltd ., “ Rang Udyan " , 

Sitalarlevi Temple Road , Mahin , Bombay - 16 . 
5C . Shri Yogindra N . Mafatlal. Indian Dyestuff Industries Ltd ., Mafatlal 

House , Back Bay Reclamation , Bumhay - 1. 
50 . Shri V , D . Desal, Managing Director , Arlahs Private Ltd ., No. 1 - - 2nd 

Floor , " India House " PO Box No. 144 , Bombay- - 1. 
5E , Shri Santokh Singh , Managing Proprietor, National Chemical Industries, 

26 , Najafgarh Rond, Delhi," . 
( c ) in the entries against " hcing persons who in the opinion of the Central 

Governinçıt have special knowledge of matters relating to the technical 
or other aspects of the said scheduled industries ," after entry No , 8A 
relating to Dr. B . Mukerji, the following entries shall be inserted , 

namely : 
" 8B . Dr . K , Venkataraman , Director , National Chemical Laboratory , Poona. 
8C . Dr . S . R . Ramachandran , Director, Office of the Textile Commissioner , 

Wittet Road , Ballard Estate , Bombay . 
8D Dr . G . Kasbcker , Assistant Director General, Ordnance Factories , 

Calcutta . " 


[No. 5 ( 33 ) IA (II) ( G ) / 57. ] 
K , C . MADAPPA , Dy. Secy . 


New Delhi, the 25th January 1958 


8 . R . O . 394 / IDRA / 18G / 22 / 58. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
18G of tho Industries ( Development and Regulation ) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951 ) , the 
Central Government hereby makes the following amendment in the Cement Control 
Order, 1956 , namely : 
In the Schedule to the said Order , after serial 16 , the following serial shall 

be added namely - 
" 17. M / s. K . C .P . Ltd ., Macherla Rs. 54.50” 

[No. Cem -8 (44 ) / 57. ] 
B . B . NAG , Under Secy . 


SFC . 8 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGIIA 12 , 1879 


237 


- 


- = 


= 


= 


- 


- - - 


- 


= 


- 


I 


(Department of Conimerce and Light Industries ) 

RUBBER CONTROL 
New Delhi, the 23rd January 1958 


S . R . O . 395 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred hy clause ( b ) of sub - section 
( 3 ) of Section 4 of the Fubu Act , 1447 ( 21 of 1947 ) read with sub - rule ( 2 ) of 
iule 3 of the Rubber Rules , 1955 , the Central Government hereby nominates 
Shri A . Venkatesan , IAS , Director of Agriculture , Madras, to be a member of 
the Rubber Board in the vacancy caused by the resignation of Shri E . U . Damo 
daran , anit directs that the following further amendment shall be made in the 
notilisation of the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry 
No . S . R . O . 1765 , dated the 10th August , 1955 , namely : 


In the said notification , for the entry 
" ( 1 ) Shri E . U . Damodaran , Director of Agriculture , Madras - nominated 

by the Government of Madras ," 
the following entry shall be substituted , namely : 
" (1 ) Shri A . Venkatesan , I.AS., Director of Agriculture , Madras - -nominated 

by the Government of Madras." 


[No, F . 15 ( 1) Plant( B ) / 57. ] 


7 


( Department of Commerce and Light Industries ) 

COFFEE CONTROL 
New Delhi, the 28th January 1958 


S . R . O . 396 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( iv ) of sub 
vection ( 2 ) and sub - section ( 3 ) of Section 4 of the Coffee Act, 1952 ( 7 of 1952 ) . 
read with sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule ( 3 ) of the Coffee Rules , 1955 , the Central Govern 
ment hereby nominates Shri A . Venkatesan , I. A . S . Director of Agriculture , 
Madras , to be a member of the Coffee Board in the vacancy caused by the resig 
nation of Shri E . U . Damodaran and makes the following further amendment 
in the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce 
and Industry No. S .R . O . 1764 , dated the 10th August, 1955 , namely 

In the said notification , for the entry 


" (3 ) Shri E . U . Damodaran , I.AS., Director of Agriculture , Madras — nomi 

nated by the Government of Madrug to represent that Government" 
the following cntry shall be substituted , namely ~ 
" (3 ) Shri A . Vekatesan , L.A . S.. Director of Agriculture, Madras --- 
nominated by the Government of Madras to represent that Govern 

ment" . 


[No. 1 ( 2 ) Plant ( B ) / 57. ] 
A . K . CHAKRAVARTI, Under Secy. 


(Indian Standards Institution ) 

New Delhi, the 16th Jamiary 1958 


S . R . O . 397 — In pursuance of sub - regulations (2 ) and ( 3 ) of regulation 3 of the Indian 
Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution 
hereby notifics thut the Indian Standards , particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto 
annated have been established during the period 161 to 15th January 1956 . 


GA 


OF 


A : FEBRUARY 1, 1958 /MACHA 12 , 1879 


[Part. II 


THE SCHPDULL 


No. and title ofthe Indian 

Standard established 


No. and title of the 
Indian Standard or 
standards , if any , 
super suded by the 
new Indian Standard 


Brief Particulars 


( 1) 


(2 ) 


(7 ) 


( 7 ) 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


I . 


IS : 814 - 1957 Specifica ion for 

Covered Electrodes for Metal 
Arc Welding ofMild Steel. 


This standard lays down the re 

quirements of covered elec 
trodes used in molalarc welding 
and the specific methods for 
evaluating them . This stan 
dard also covers additional 
requirements for deep pene 
tration electrodes for use in 
certain welding positions . 
( Price Rs, 3 . 00 ) . 


2 . IŞ : 1076 - 1957 Preferred Num 

bere . 


Part I ofthis standard explaus, in 
brief, the theory of preferred 
numbers and lists the preferred 
numbers in the four basic 
series , RS , Rio , R20 , and 
R 40 , as well as an additional 
R80 Series , recommended 
for India and Part II contains 
a guide to the use of preferred 
numbers . (Price Rs. 2 . 00 ). 
This standard prescribes the 
constructional details and other 
particulars of handloom 
bleached or dyed cotton cellu 
lose shirting . ( Price Rs. 1 . 50 ). 


3 . IS : 1101- 1957 Specification for 

Handloom Cotton Cellular 
Shirting, Bleached or Dyed . 


4 . IS : 1105 - 1957 Method for Pre 

cige Conversion of Inch and 
Metric Dimensions to ensure 
Interchangeability . 


This standard gives a simplified 

set of rules for the precisc con 
version of dimensions from 
Inches to millimeters and vice 
versa to cnsure interchange 
ability The rules are meant 
for use particularly in the work 
of engineers , designers , 
draughtsmen and shop workers . 

(Price Rs. 3 . 00 ) . 
This standard lays down the nomi 

nal dimensions, weight and basic 
geometrical properties of rolled 
sicel tee bars, (Price Rs . 1 . 50 ) . 


5 . IS : 1173 - 1957 Specincati n for 

Rolled Steel Sections , Tec 
Bars , 


Copies of these Indian Standards are available for sale with the Indian Standards Institution 
" MANAK BHAVAN ” , 9 Mathura Road , New Delhi- I and also at its Branch Offices at (1 ) 40 /40A 
Cawani Patel Stree , Fort, Bombay - 1, ( i ) P - II, Mission Row Extension , Clucutta - I and 
(ii) 23 , Nungambakkam High Road , Madras- 6 . 


D . V . KARMARKAR , 
Diputy Director (Marks). 


INo. MDC/ 11 (4 ). ] 
T. S . KUNCHITHAPATHAM , Under Secy . 


bic. 31 THE GA / ECTE OF INDIA : TEBRUARY J , 1958, MAGHA 12 , 1879 

220 
- - - - - - = 

= 

= - - - = - 

- = 
MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

(Department of Agriculture ) 

New Delhi, the 21st January 1958 
S . R . O . 398 . - In excrcise of the powers confered by sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 11, 
clause ( b ) of suih -rude (? ! of rule 14 and sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 23 of the Central 
Civil Services ( Classification , Control and Appral ) Rules , 1957, the President here 
by aircrits that the toll :wing amendnients shall be made in the schedule to the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Agriculture No, S . R . O . 
034 - A , dhted the 28th February , 1957, namely : 

In th¢ said Schedule 
( 1 ) in Part 1 
(a ) for the words " Ministry of Agriculture wherever they occur, the words 

and brackets "Ministry of Food & Agriculture (Department of Agri 

culture ) ” shall be substituted ; 
(b ) for the heading " Central Mechanised Farms, Jammu / Bhopal" , the head 

Ing “ Central Mechanised Farm , Jammu " shall be substituted . 
( 2 ) in Part II 
( a ) for the words " Ministry of Agriculture" wherever they occur, the 

words and brackets “ Ministry of Food & Agriculture (Department 

of Agriculture )” shall be substituted; 
( b ) for the heading “ Central Mechanised Farms, Jammu / Bhopal" , the head 
ins " Central Mechanised Farm , Jammu" shall be substituted . 

[ No . 8 -49 /57 -FR .] 
B . R . KAPOOR , Under Secy . 


(Department of Food ) 

ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 25th January 1958 . 
S . R . O . 399 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential 
Commodities Act , 1965 ( 10 of 1935 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following amendment in the Inter -Zonal Wheat Movement Control Order , 1957, 
namely : 

Amendment 
In clause 4 of the said Order , the following provisos shall be inserted at the 
end, namely : - - 
" Provided that in the exercise of the powers of entry and search under 

this clause , the authorised officer shall pay due regard to the social 

and religious customs of the occupants of the premises 
Provided further that if any such premises be found locked up or unoccupied 

or unattended by or on behalf of the owner or occupier , the same 
may , in the presence of two witnesses he broken open and entered 
upon for all or any of the aforesaid purposes" . 

[No. 201 ( 3 ) / 57 -PY .11.] 
S .R . O . 400 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Easential 
Commodities Act, 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following amendment in the Rico ( Southern Zone ) Movement Control Order , 
1957, namely : 

Amendment 
In clause 4 of thc said Order, the following provisos shall be added at the 
end , namely : 
" Provided that in the exercise of the powers of entry and search under 

this clause, the authorised officer shall pay due regard to the social 

and religious customs of the occupants of the premises : 
Provided further that if any such premises be found locked up or unoccupied 

or unattended by or on behalf of the owner or occupier, the same 
may , in the presence of two witnesses be broken open and entered 
upon for all or any of the aforesaid purposes " 

[No, 201 (4 ) /57 -PY. II .) 


240 

111E GWEISE OF INDI 1: FEBRUARY 1 , 1958 /MAGHA 12, 1879 PART II 
- = - = Y - - -- --- - - - - - = = - = - = = = = = = = = = = 

S . R . O , 401. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential 
Commodities Act , 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) , lle Central Government hercby makes the 
following amendment in the What Roller Flour Mills ( Licensing and Controll 
Order , 1957, namely : 

Amendment 
In sub - clause ( 1) of clausc 13 of the said Order , the following provisos shall 
be inserted at the end , namely : 
" Provided that in the exercise of the powers of cntry and search under 

this sub - clauys , the authorised officer shall pay due regard to the 

social and religious customs of he occupants of the premises : 
Provided further that if any such premises be found locked up or unoccupied 

or unattended by or on behalf of the owner or occupier , the sanic 
may , in the presence of two witnesses be broken open and entered 
upon for all or any of the aforesaid purposes " . 

[No. 204 ( 11 ) / 57 - PY .JI / FM .] 
S . R . O . 402 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1955 ( 10 of 1965 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following amendment in the Bombay Rice (Export Control) Ortler, 1957, 
namely : 

Amendment 
In clause 4 of the said Order, the following provisos shall be added at the 
end , namely : 
" Provided that in the cxercise of the powers of entry and search under 

this clause , the authorised officer shall pay due regard to the social 

and religious customs of the occupants of the premises: 
Provided further that if any such premises be found locked up or unoccupied 

or unattended by or on behalf of the owner or occupier , the same 
may , in the presence of two witnesses be broken open and entered 
upon for all or any of the aforesaid purposes " . 

[ No. 204 ( 14 ) /57- PY . II.] 
S . R . O . 403 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential 
Commodities Act , 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following amendment in the Orissa Rice ( Prohibition of Export ) Order, 1957 
namely : 

Amendment 
In clausc 6 of the said Order, the following provisos shall be added at the end , 
namely : — 
" Provided that in the exercise of the powers of entry and search under 

this clause , the authorised officer shall pay due regard to the social 

and religious customs of the occupants of the premises : 
Provided further that if any such premises be found locked up or unoccupied 

or unattended by or on behalf of the owner or occupier , the same 
may, in the presence of two witnesses be broken open and crtered 
upon for all or any of the aforesuid purposes " . 

No. 204 ( 15 ) /57 -PY . II. ] 


S . R . O . 404 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential 
Oommodities Act, 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following amendment in the Punjab Rice (Movement Control) Order . 1957, 
namely : - - 

Amendment 
In clause 4 of the said Order , the following provisos shall be added at the 
end , namely : 
" Provided that in the exercise of the powers of entry and search under 

this clause, the authorised officer shall pay due regard to the social 

and religious customs of the occupants of the premises : 
Provided further that if any such premises be found locked up or unoccupied 

or unattended by or on behalf of the owner or occupier, the same 
nay , in the presence of two witnesses be broken open and entered 
upon for all or any of the aforesaid purposes ." 

[ No . 204 ( 20 ) / 57 -PY. II.] 
S . N . BHALLA , Dy. Secy . 


- 


- - - 


SEC . 3 ] TUE CALL ITE OF INDI1 FEBRUARY 1, 1958, VAGHA 12, 1879 242 
- - - - - - -- 

- - = = 
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT & COMMUNICATIONS 

( Department of Transport) 

( Transport Wing ) 

MUNCHANT SHIPPING 

New Delhi, the 3rd January 1958 
S . R . O . 405 .- - Thy Cential Government . 5 blessed to declare that the follow 
Ing shull ne lile peuper liduunal colours for the ships and vessels ilot registeredt 
in India laut are owned by any Department of the Central Government or a 
State Government : 
( 1 )| For ships and lessels oiled by the Ministry of Transport & Communi. 

Nations of the Central Gozernment and used as training ships, - - The 
Blue Ensign deſacert by an Ashoka Chakra superimposed over the 

chanks oť the anchor in a vertical position . 
( 2 ) For ships and lessels of the Department of Lighthouses and Lightships 

of the Central Golprnment. — The Blue Ensign defaced by a Light 
house in a vertical position with two white night beams cmanating 

horizontally from the beacon . 
( 3 ) For ships and vessels of all port authorities other than Statutory Port 

Trusts , - The Blue Ensign suitably defaced with the crest of the 

Port or of the State Government which administers the port. 
(4 ) For all other ships and vessels owned by the Central/ State Govern 

ment. — The Blue Ensign defaced by an appropriate hadge of office 
as may be specifically prescribed in this behalf by the Central. 

Government . 
4 . The defacement shall in every case be: - - 

(1) in light golden colcur ; 
(ii) in the centre of the fly of the Ensign . ( The fly is the half of the flag 

farthest away from the Mast ) ; 
( iji) not exceeding in dimension that of a circle whose diameter is 13 / 30th 

of the width of the flag . 
The notifications of the Government of India in the Ministry of Defence No . 
1429 dated the 27th December , 1952, and No. 1432 dated the 30th August, 1956 , 
shall stand superseded with eilcct from the date of publication oť this notification . 

[No. 20 -MA ( I)/ 55 . ] 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 21st January 1958 
S . R . O . 406 .- - In the Indian Merchant Shipping ( Life Saving Appliances) Rules, 
1956, published with the notification of the Government of India in the late 
Ministry of Transport No SRO 333 , dated the 12th January 1957, in the Gazette 
of India Extraordinary at pages 301 to 329 Part II Section 3 dated 25th January 
1957 . 
In paragraph (8 ) of Part I of the Fifth Schedule for " tiled by 100 " read 
" titled by 100" 

[ No. 51-MA ( 3 ) /54 .] 

S. K . GHOSH , Dy . Secy. 
(Department of Transport) 
( Transport Wing ) 

PORTS 

New Delhi, the 20th January 1958 
S .R . O . 407 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of sec 
tlon 3 of the Indian Ports Act , 1908 ( XV of 1908 ) , the Central Government is . 
pleased to authorise Shri P . K . Patankar, Pilot, Kandla Port, to pilot in and out 
of the Port, move in the harbour and to berth and un -berth ships upto 5 , 000 tons 
gross (excepting tankers and vessels loaded with explosives ) during day light 
only . 

(No. 2A -PG ( 78 ) / 57. ] 


2 .12 


- 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


THE GAZETIE OF INDIA . FEBRUARY 1 , 1958 / MAGHA 12 , 1879 PART II 

- - _ - - - - - - - 

New Delhi, the 22nd January 1958 
S . R . O , 408 ,- In pursuance of the provisions of clause ( 3 ) of Section 3 of 
the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (XV of 1908 ), the Central Government hereby autho 
rises Shri Jayawant Ganpatrao Bhonsle , Chief Officer of the Scindia Steam 
Navigation Company s coasting stcamers, as a licenced officer to pilot vessels in 
the Port of Bombay , subject to the restrictions laid down in Part XII of the 
Bumbay Port Trust Pilotage By - laws, 

[No. 8C -PG ( 137 ) / 57. ] 
D . A , R . WARRIAR , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 22nd January 1958 
S . R . O . 409. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 4 of the Air 
Corporations Act, 1953 ( 27 of 1953 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints 
Air Commodore P . C . Lal, ( 1567 ) DFC , IAF General Manager , Indian Airlines 
Corporation , New Delhi as a member of the Indian Airlines Corporation . 

[No. 3 -CA ( 1 ) /57. ] 


S . R . O . 410 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 4 of the Air 
Corporations Act, 1953 ( 27 of 1953 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints 
Air Commodore P . C . Lal ( 1567 ) DFC , IAF, General Manager , Indian Airlines 
Corporation , New Delhi as a member of the Air India International Corporation . 

- [ NO. 3- CA (1) /57.) 
New Delhi, the 23rd January 1958 
8 .R . O . 411. — Under Sub -Section ( 1) of Section 5 of the Air Corporations Act. 
1953 ( 27 of 1953 ) , Shri M . M . Philip , I. C . S ., who has resigned , ceases to be a member 
of the Indian Airlines Corporation from the 16th January , 1958 . 

[NO, 3 -CA ( 1 ) / 57 .] 
S .R .O . 412.— Under Sub - Section ( 1) of Section 5 of the Air Corporations Act, 
1953 ( 27 of 1953 ) , Shri M . M . Philip , I . C . S ., who has resigned , ceases to be a member 
of the Air India International Corporation from the 16th January , 1958 . 

[No, 3-CA ( 1 ) / 57. ) 
K , K . UNNI, Dy. Secy . 


(Department of Communications and Civil Aviation ) 

New Delhi, the 28th January 1958 
S . R . O . 413 , - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 10 of the Indian 
Post Office Act , 1898 ( 6 of 1898 ) , the Central Government hereby directs that 
with effect on and from the 1st February , 1958, the following further amendment 
shall be made in the Indian Post Office Rules , 1933 , namely : 

In the said Rules, for rule 5 , the following rule shall be substituted, namely : 

“ 5. The following rates of postage shall be chargeable on postal articles when 
the postage is prepaid : - 

Letters 
( A ) For any part of the world served by the Foreign Post, with the exception 
of Aden , Ceylon , Nepal, Pakistan and Portuguese India 

For a weight not exceeding one ounce - - 25 naye paise . 

For every additional one ounce or fraction thereof — 15 naye paise 
( B ) For Aden , Ceylon, Nepal, Pakistan and Portuguese India - Indian inland 

rates . 


2 .43 


SEC. 9, THE GAZEITE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1, 1958 /MAGHA 12 , 1879 
- I V - - - = - = - = - = - = 

- _ 
Postcards 
( A ) For any part of the world served by the Foreign Post with the cxception 
of Aden , Ceylon , Nepal, Pakistan and Portuguese India 

For a single postcard - 15 naye paisc. 

For a reply postcard — 30 naye paise, 
( B ) For Aden , Ceylon , Nepal, Pakistan and Portuguese India - Indian inland 
ratey . 


Printed Papers ( including Newspapers and Books ) 
( A ) For any part of the world served by the Foreign Post with the exception 
of Aden , Ceylon , Nepal, Pakistan and Portuguese India 

For the first two ounces or fraction thereot - - 8 naye paise . 
For every additional two ounces or fraction thereof, in excess of two 

ounces - 6 naye paise : 
Provided that in the case of newspapers which for the purpose of inland post 
are treated as registered newspapers , the rate of postage shall be, for each copy , 
4 naye paise for every two ounces or part thereof . 

( B ) For Aden , Ceylon , Nepal, Pakistan and Portuguese India - - Indian inland 
rates. 
Provided that in the case of newspapers wlilch for the puruose of inland post are 
treated as registered newspapers, the Indian inland rates for registered news 
papers shall apply . 

Express Delivery Unregistered Letters, Postcards and Book Packets 
Express delivery unregistered letters , postcards and book packets - 40 

naye paise in addition to the postage for the same article when not 
intended for express delivery . 

" Blind Literature" Packets 
" Blind Literature packets to all foreign countries shall be exempt from 
postage. 

Business Papers (Legal and Commercial Documents ) 
( A ) For any part of the world served by the Foreign Post with the exception 
of Aden , Ceylon , Nepal, Pakistan and Portuguese India 

For a weight not exceeding eight ounces-_ - 25 naye paise. 

Fot every additional two ounces or fraction thereof- 6 naye paise. 
( B ) For Aden , Ceylon , Ncpal, Pakistan and Portuguese India - Indian inland 
rates. 


Sample Packets 
( A ) For any part of the urld served by the Foreign Post with the exception 
of Aden , Ceylon , Nepal, Pakistan and Portuguese India 

For the first two ounces or fraction thercof — 8 naye paise . 
For every additional two ounces or fraction thereof, in excess of two 

ounces - 6 naye paise . 
Provided that the charge for a sample packet shall in no case be less than 10 
naye paise . 

( B ) For Aden , Ceylon , Nepal, Pakistan and Portuguese Indiu - Indian inland 
rates . 


Insured Boxes 
For a weight not exceeding ten ounces - One rupee. 

For every additional two ounces or fraction thereof - 20 naye paise . 
The Director -General shall, from time to time, declare in the Post and Tele 
graph Guide , the countries and places to which insured boxes can be transmitted 
by the Foreign Letter Post. 


244 

111E GA / EZ I E OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGHA 12, 1879 [PART II 
= = = - - = = = - - - 

= = = = = 

= 
Parcels 
The Dirt ctor -General shall, from time to time, declare in the Post and Tole 
graph Guide thic countries and places to which parccis may be transmitted by 
the Foreign Post , and the rates of postage chargeable in each case . 

Postage and other charges duc of palcols which are returned as undeliverable 
from this countries and places of dest nation in accordance with the arrangements 
in force between India und such countries and places shall be recovered from 
senders in India ." 


[No. M & D 1 -22 / 56 . ] 


K . K . SARAN , Dy. Scoy . 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - 
MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING AND SUPPLY 

CORRIGENDA 

New Delhi, the 22nd January 1958 
S . R . O . 414. -- To Notifications No. EWI-15 ( 9 ) /57- 1; EWI- 15 (9 ) / 57 -II; EWI- 15 (9 ) / 
57 -III ; EWI- 15 (9 ) / 57 - IV ; dated the 15th December , 1957. 

1 . Insert the following clause below the Note under paragraph 8 and above 
the sentence " SAVE AS PROVIDED ABOVE THE AGE LIMITS PRESCRIBED 
CAN IN NO CASE BE RELAXED ” . : -- 
“ N . B . - Candidates who are admitted to the exanination under the age con 

cession mentioned in paragraph 8 above will not be eligible for ap 
pointment if, after submitting the application , they resign from 
service either before or after taking the examination . They will , 
however, continue to be eligible if they arc retrenched from the 

service cr post after submitting the applications" . 
2. Delete the words but before the 30th September, 1948 from sub - clause ( 2 ) 
of paragraph 6 of the Rules. 

3 . Insert the words of categories ( c ) and ( d ) above after the word Non 
citizens in sub - clause ( 3 ) of paragraph 6 of the Rules . 

[No. 15 (9 ) / 57-EW . I.) 
B . R , MAZUMDAR , Under Secy, 


New Delhi, the 23rd January 1958 
S . R . O . 415 . - The following draft of a certain amendment to the Rules 
Regulating the Handling of Explosives in the Port of Bombay published under the 
late Department of Works, Mincs and Power Notificution No. P . 103 , dated the 11th 
March , 1947, which the Central Government proposes to make in exercise of 
the powers conferred by section 5 of the Indian Explosives Act , 1884 ( 4 of 1884 ) 
is published as required by section 18 of the said Act, for the information of all 
persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the said 
draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 28th February, 1958. 

Any objection or suggestion , which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 


Draft Amendment 
After sub - rule ( 6 ) of rule 7 of the said rules, the following sub - rule shall be 
inserted , namely : 
" ( 7 ) The boat shall be fitted with 2 cfficient fire extinguishers - - 1 Soda Acid 

type fire extinguisher and 1 Foam type extinguisher , each exting 
uisher being of two gallons capacity ." 


[No. S & P II - Exp . 2 ( 18 ) / 57. ) 

B . S , SARAO , Under Secy . 


SEC , 31 THE GAZETTE OF INDII: ILBRUARY 1, 1918 NAGHA 12 , 1879 

245 

= - = - = 
MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

New Delhi, the 25th January 1958 
S . R . O . 416 - -Whereas the Central Government is of opinion than it is necessary 
10 acquire the cvacuee properties specified in the Schedulc herctu annexed in the State of Delhi 

fur a public purusc , hcing 1 pu pose connected with the reliel and rehabilitation of displaced 
peisuns, including pavinent of cumpensation to such persons ; 

Now , theiefore , in cxercise of the powere conferied by Section 12 of the Displaced l ersons 
( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 11 of 1954), the Central Government has dould 
tu 4cquire , and hereby acquires, the evacucc procities specified in the Scholule hercio annexcd . 


THE SUIDUI E 


Serial Parliculars of the viacLCL 
No. 

Property 


Name of the Fallica 


Name of the town and 
locality , villaçt in which 
the property is situated 


Churiwalan , Delhi 


. 


. 


Shri Nasir Udılın . 


IX1000 
I . - 

2633 - 37 
IX 1004 


Pahari Bhavn, Delhi 


, 


1664 -65 


, Musaniat Khuistui Begum , 

Mohamed Saveed and 

Mohamad Rashid , 
, Messrs Mohamed Ibrahim 

Mohamed Lyman , 


. 


. Pahari Bhujla , Delhi 


3 . 


IX /1054 -56 
- 

1756 -59 
IX /1050 

1744 -45 
IX /932 
— 


. 


. 


. Paharı Bhujla , Delhi . 


. Mohamed Isay. 


. 


. 


. Pahari Bhojla , Delhi . 


. Shri Khuda Bux. 


5 . 


1 $ 78 


. 


, 


Mufti Walan , Delhi . 


Shri Mohamed 

Husan , 


Mobid -ul 


X /687 
6 . - 

1046 
7 . X /459 -60 


Rang Mahal, Delhi 


. 


ShriGhafur-ul-din 


645- 54 
X / 1070 


8 . 


Suiwalan , Delhi 


, 


Mohd . Ramzan Khan son of 

Kale Khan . 


1994 
9 . X /289 


Chhatta Lal Main , Delhi 


Shri Nasir , Sayed 


464 
X /614 


Kucha Ruhallah Khan , Tiraha 

Berum Khan , Delhi. . Musamat Amnul- Qadar. 


925 
II , XI/ 1476 / 1264 
12 . XI/4283/3301 


, 
, 


, Gali Jamana Walai, Delhi. Musamat Iqbal Jehan Begum . 
Delhi Gate, Delhi . . Mulana Mohamed Zubair and 

Mohamed Irfan son of 

Mohamed Ishaq . 
Kucha Chelan , Delhi . . Mughal Jan son of Wali Jan . 
Matia Mahl, Delhi , Zafar Mohamed . 
Kucha Chelan , Delhi , Mumtaz Hussain . 


13. XI/ 1372 / 1160 
14. XI/327 -28/286 
15. XI/ 3850 / 2992 


, 
. 
. 


246 


THE GAZETI E OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1 , 1958 , M . IGHA 12, 1879 


[PART 11 


- 


= 


- = 


- - 


- - - - - - 


3 


16 . XIII/ 931- 32 . . . Shish Mahal, Delhi , Mohamed Ismail and Moha 

med Umar. 
17 . XIII (947 -48 - Shish Mahal, Delhi , Mohamed Isınail and Molid . 

Umar. 
18 . XIII 951-52 , Shish Mahal, Delhi . . Mohamed Isinul and Mohamed 

Umar . 
19. XIII /2526 - 30 . . Teliwaru , Delhi , Mohamed Shafi. 
20. XIII /7265/6633 , Kothi Mom , Delhi . Mohamed Sadiq . 
21. X111/7616 - 19 . Bagh Beriwala , Delhi . Mohamed Ishaq , 
22 . XIII /6781 -84 . . Pakki Guli, Delhi 

H . Sultan Ahmed , 
23. XIII /6555- 56 · · Saddar Bazur, Delhi . Mohamed Idris. 
24 . XIV /2798 -2801 & XIV / Gali Chule Wali Gali Mandi Musamat Hashmat Sulian 
2812 - 2824 Pan , Delhi. 

wife of Muhamad Ghafoor . 
25. XIV /7159 . . . Qasab Pusa , Delhi . . Ramzani non of Manwa . 
26 . XIV /8200 , 

Qasah Pura , Delhi . . Wife of Altaf Hussain 
27. XIV / 8289 , . . Qasab Pura, Delhi . Sirajuddin 
28 . XIV /8673 . . . Qasab Pura, Delhi . . Khuda Bux, 
29. XIV /9386 -88 , . Qasab Pura , Delhi . , Fiaruddin 
30. XIV /8281 . . Qasah Pura, Delhi , . Faqir Uddin . 
31. XIV /8282 

Qasab Pura , Delhi , . Mohamed Ibraham , 
32. XIV /13859 . . . Shidipura , Dellii 

Abdul Rashid son of Bahim 

Bux . 
33 . XIV / 13457 . . . Shidipura , Delhi . . Baba Ali Bux . 
XIV / 13458 . Shidipura , Delhi 

. Qutdi & Shabrall . 
35. XIV /13873 . . Shidipura , Delhi 

Noor Ahmad , 
36 . House No. 92 Delhi Gate , Najafgar Shri Sher Shah son of Azim 

Shah , 
37. Khander 93 . . Situated in Bazar, Najafgarh , Shri Peru son of Nawab Ali. 

Delhi. 
38. House No. 269 . Chawla Gate, Najafgarlı, Delhi Shri Kherati son of Lala 
39 . House No. 270 

Chawla Gate, Najafgarh , Delhi Shri Nasru son of Kalu . 
40 . Khander 283 . . Chawla Gate , Najafgarh. Shri Mohsin Ali son of Mansab 

Delhi, 

Ali , 
41. Housc No. 669 , Gali Khabian , Najafgarh , Shri Qodina son of Hasnoo 

Delhi, 
42. House No. 670 , Gali Khabian Najafgarh , Delhi Shri Qodina son of Hasanoa 
43. Chaper No. 672 . Gali Khabian , Najafgarh , Shri Kalan son of Chhela . 

Delhi. 
44 . Ilouse No. 698 . , Gali Bhastian , Najafgarh , Delhi Shri Mangal son of Idų . 
45. House No. 702 Gali Bhastian , Najafgarh, Delhi Shri Nanak . 
46. Housc No. 731- A · Gali Bhastian , Najafgarh , Shri Abdul Ghani. 

Delhi. 
47. Gouse No. 734 . Gali Bhastian , Najafgarh , Delhi Shri Isha 

and laiz Ali son of Nisad 
Ali, 


SEC . 8 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1, 1958 /MAGITA 12, 1879 

- - - - - - - - 


247 


48. Chaper No. 735 , 


49. House No. 768 


. 


50 . House No. 778 


. 


51. House No . 792 
52 . House No . 795 


. 


53. House No. 800 


, 


54. House No. 808 


. 


55 . IIou c No . 843 


. 


56 . House No .836 


. 


- 57. House No. 844 


- 


58. Ilouse No. 845 


. 


59 . House No . 846 


. 


60 . House No. 848 


. 


61 . House No . 850 


. 


62 . House No . 849 


Gali Bhastian , Najaſgarh , Shri Uriu son of Muthria . 

Delhi, 
. Gali Pathanan , Najaſyurh , Shri Manzoor Khan son of 
Delhi. 

Faruq Khan . 
Gul Pathanan , Najafgarli, Shri Rehmal son of Nazira , 

Dulli. 
Gali Pathanan , Najafgarh , Shri Amir Khan son of Umar 
Delli. 

Khan . 
. Gali Puthanan , Najafgarh , Shri Gulzaru s/n Chhotu . 

Delhi, 
Gali Parnunan , Najafgarh , Shri Gulzuru on of Chhotu , 

Delli . 
. Gali Pathanan , Najurgarh , Shri Bilu son of Allah Bu x , 

Deltu . 
. Gali Beapuriun , Najafgarh , ShriMohd Jan sun of Faiza . 

Dellu . 
. Guli Bcaparian , Najalgarh , Shri Bula son of Jula . 

Dellii . 
, Gali Pathanan , Najafgarh , Mesrers Raja & Aman qon of 
Delji . 

Gulam Mohammad . 
. Gali Bcapariun , Najafgarh , She Mole Junsor of Faiza. 

Delhi, 
. Gali Bcaparian , Najafgarh , Shri Sana Ulalı . 

Delhi, 
, Gali Bcaparian , Najafgarh , Shri Sana Ulah . 

Delhi. 
Gali Beaparain , Naja gurh , Shri Sana Ulah , 

Delhi, 
Gali Bea parian , Najalgarh , Mes.cu Imamuddin und 

Basleruddın sons of Azim 

uddin . 
. Gali Bcaparian , Najafgarh ,, Messer. Azitu Ullal and Ram 
Delhi. 

Zan son of Mauli . 
. Gali Heaparian , Najafgarh , Musamat Munbhari widow of 
Delhi. 

Mign Bux . 
. .Gali Beaparian , Najafgarh , Shri Pir Bux son of Khazoo . 

Delhi. 
. Gai Bcaprian , Najafgrah , Shri Abudulson of Ramzani, 

Delhi. 
, Gali Telian Najafgarh , Delhi Shri Mumtaz Khan son of 

Sadat Khan , 
Gali Janias Najafgarh Delhi Shri Allah Dia son of 

Wazir . 
. Gali Jain Mandir , Najafgarh , Shri Allah Dia son of Wazir . 

Delhi. 
. Galı Bcaparian , Najafgarh , Shri Bashir son of Madan , 

Delhi. 
, Gali Beaparian , Najafgarh , Shri Budhu . 

Delhi, 
Gali Beaparian , Najafgarh , Shri Budhu son of Suchar . 

Delhi. 
. Gali Beaparian , Najafgath , Shri Wafal son of Bulu . 

Delhi. 
. Gali Beaparian , Najufgarh , Shri Shabrati : on of Fudha . 

Delhi. 
, Gali Beaparian , Najafgarh , Shri Ali son of Nur Mohamad 

Delhi, 


Delhi. 


63. House No. 852 


64 . House No .859 


, 


65. Chaper No. 868 . 
66 . House No. 869 , 


67. House No. 870 


- 


68. House No. 1032 , 


69. House No. 1033 . 


70 . House No. 1071 . 


71. House No . 1085 . 


72 . House NO. 1112 , 


73 . House No. 1115 , 


74 . House No. 1116 . 


75. House No. 1114 - 


248 


TAF GAZFTTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1, 1958 /MAGIIA 12, 1879 


(PART II 


= 


= 


I 


2 


4 


- 


- - 


- 


76 . Cuper No . 1132 . 


77. 110 , No . 1145 . 


7 . Hone No 1117 . 


79 . HoeNo. 11,48 , 


80. Hirlac NO 1226 


31. lIolse No. 1229 


82 . IIveN0. 1302 


83. Hou , No 1338 


84 . lIou e No. 1340 


. Gali Baration , Najafturh , Shri Abdu sain of Beren . 

Tel . 
. Goli Roaparut , Najulgurh , Stu M191. Jono Bali. 

Dulu 
. ( tal. Bonarian , Nuafgarh , M 50 % . Karunu lilulunul Inayat 
Delhi 

Ullal on o1 Mallob. 
. Gali Beapauati , Najafgarh , Shu Sadul : 0114 Nir . 

Delhi 
. Gali Warih , Nasgarh Shri Ali Jal und Sharcſuddin 

30115 of Ali, 
( 1211W vikhan , Najarkarh , Shui Aminudin , 

Dalı 
Mulal sS t , Najafyath , Shri You al Ali and Sakhawat 
Delmi 

Alions clYahul Ah . 
Mol 11. 

juntad , Najafgarh , Shu Sulia Kh - 17. 
1 101, 
Meballat Ki 414110F , Najalgarh , Sliril 217 . 

D21 . 
. Mvidalla Kivanas ,Najafgarh , Shri Magsud . 

1 .- hi. 
Mr Jalan Kliclanas , Ndiafgarli, Shui ALCU ) AZ 2 Klan . 

Delar 
Minulla Khilanas , Naufgarh , Shu Khu a Bux. 

Deln . 
Mohili Klclamay, Nuafgarh , Shu Shakoor Khan and Nasir 
D - u . 

Klan . 
Moholi Khelanas, Najafyarlı , Shri Manu . 

Delhi, 
Mohalla Khelanas, Najafgarh , Slırı Yu « in , 

Delhi, 
Mohalla Kahran , Najafgarh , Shri Rashid . 

Delui. 
. Mondll . Masudabad , Najaf- Si ri Ilamid Klon 1 ] Mild . 
gain ,Dellii, 

Hanif and Mohd . Said . 


85 . House NO 13.42 . 


35. HNL No 1345 . 
87. HVL e NO 1355 
88 . House NO 1360 


39 . ( IV .C No . 1358 


90 . HocNo. 1365 


91. H04 , No. 1450 . 


92 . Hou ,e No . 1469 


93. House No . 1476 
91 . IIO 150 No. 1487 . 


95 . V / 89 and 140 
96 . II/422 . 
97. XIV /3474 -77 


. 
, 
. 


Mohalla Masudahad , Najaf - Shri Rashid . 

garh , Delhi. 
. Mohalla Ma udabad , Najaf- Shri Mohd Shafiq . 

garh , Delhi. 
. Shahdara · · · Abdul Latif , 

Sliahdara . . . AbdulGhafur . 
· Palar Wali Gali. GaliMande Chaudhry Ramasani son of 
Walı Delhi. 

Jumaluddin , 


[ No. 10 (6 ) $ - 1/57 .) 
ONKAR DAYAL , Under Secy . 


(Оfice of the Chief Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 21st January 1958 
S . R . O . 417 , -- In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Section (i) or Sec 
tion 6 or the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ), the 
Central Government hereby appoints for the States of Bihar and Orissa , Shri 


SEC . THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1 , 1958 /MAGHA 12 , 1879 249 

- - - - - - - - - 
Mohan Chaudhry . 1. A . S ., Secretary , Ministry of Relief and Rehabilitation , Goy 
ernment of Bihar as Custodian Evacuee Property vice Shri R . P . Singh , I. A .S ., 
for the purpose or discharging the duties imposed on such officers by or under 
the said Act . 

[No. II( 13) PROP (ADMN )/ 57. ] 

I. N . CHIB , 
Dy. Chief Settlement Commissioner 

(Ex - Officio Dy . Secy . 


(Office of the Chlef Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 21st January 1958 
S . R . O . 418 . In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( I) of section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation ) Act , 1954 (44 of 
1954), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Bhupinder Singh Chowdhry 
an Assistant Settlement Officer for the purpose of performing the functions as 
signed to such officers by or under the sald Act, with effect from the date he 
took charge of his post . 

[No. 8 / 177 / 57 -Comp.I. ) 
S . R . O . 419 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation ) Act , 1954 ( 44 of 
1954 ) the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Anant Ram Malhotra as 
Assistant Settlement Commissioner for the purpose of performing the functions 
assigned to such Commissioners by or under the said Act with effect from the 
date he took charge of his office . 

[ No. 6 / 10 / Comp.1/55.] 
New Delhi, the 22nd January 1958 
S . R . O . 420 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954. ( 44 of 1954 ) , 
the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Vishnu Issardas Tewani an Assistant 
Settlement offer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such 
officers by or under the said Act , with effect from the date he took charge of his 
post . 

[No . 8 / 172 / 57 -Comp. I. ] 

M , L , PURI, 
Settlement Commissioner and 

Ex -Officio Under Secy . 


- 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR & EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 22nd January 1958 
S . R . O . 421, In pursuance of section 8 of the Employees State Insurance 
Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the following 
further amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour No. S . R . O . 2360 , dated the 5th October, 1956, constituting the Standing 
Committee of the Employees State Insurance Corporation , namely : 
In the said notification , for item ( 1) , the following item shall be substituted, 

namely : 
" ( 1 ) Shri P . M . Menon , I.C . S ., Secretary to the Government of India , 
Ministry of Labour and Employment." 

[No. F .HI- 1( 5 ) / II/58.) 
S . R . O . 422 .- In pursuance of section 4 of the Employees State Insurance Act , 
1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour No . S . R . O . 2156, dated the 18th November , 1953, constituting the 
Employees State Insurance Corporation , namely : 
In the said notification , for item ( 4 ), the following item shall be sub 

stituted , namely : 
" 4 . Shri P . M . Menon , I. C . S ., Secretary to the Government of India , 
Ministry of Labour and Employment.” 

[No. F .HI- 1 ( 6 ) / I/ 88. ] 
K . N . NAMBIAR , Dy. Secy . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDÍA ; FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGHA 12, 1879 


(Part It 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


New Delhi, the 22nd January 1958 
S . R . O . 423. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 of the Coal 
Mines Provident Fund and Bonus Schemes Act , 1948 ( 48 of 1948 ) , the Central 
Government hereby makes the following further amendments in the Andhra 
Pradesh Coal Mines Provident Fund Scheme published with the notification of 
the Government of India in the late Ministry of Labour No . S . R . O . 657, dated 
the 12th March , 1956 and as amended from time to time namely : 
In the said Scheme 
1 . in clause ( k ) of paragraph 2 for the words " ending with the date of 

the application on which he is permitted to withdraw the amount 
standing to his credit in the Fund under paragraph 41" the words 
" ending with the date on which the amount standing to his credit 
in the Fund and refundable under paragraph 41 ls tendered for 
payment" shall be substituted . 


2 . in paragraph 39 , for the first proviso to sub -paragraph ( 2 ) the follow 

ing proviso shall be substituted , namely : 
" Provided that when the amount standing at the credit of the member 

has become payable , interest shall thereupon be credited under this 
sub - paragraph for the period upto the end of the month preceding 
the date of tender of payment" . 

[No. PF - 1/ 2 ( 101 )/ 56 / II.] 


S . R . O . 424 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 of the Coal 
Mines Provident Fund and Bonus Schemes Act, 1948 ( 46 of 1948 ) , the Central 
Government hereby makes the following further amendments in the Coal Minęs 
Provident Fund Scheme published with the notification of the Government of 
India in the late Ministry of Labour No. PF . 15 ( 5 ) / 48 , dated the 11th December , 
1948 and as amended from time to time, namely : 


In the said Scheme 
1 . in clause (k ) of paragraph 2 for the words " ending with the date of 

the application on which he is permitted to withdraw the amount 
standing to his credit in the Fund under paragraph 63 " the words 
" ending with the date on which the amount standing to his credit 
in the Fund and refundable under paragraph 63 is tendered for 
payment" shall be substituted . 


2 . in paragraph 61 for the first proviso to sub -paragraph ( 2 ) the following 

proviso shall be substituted , namely : 


" Provided that when the amount standing at the credit of the member 

has become payable , interest shall thereupon be credited under 
this sub - paragraph for the period upto the end of the month pre 
ceding the date of tender of payment” . 


[No. PF -1/2 ( 101)/ 56 /I.] 


New Delhi, the 23rd January 1958 
S . R . O . 425 . -- Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment, being a factory , 
known as Machinery Paints and Chemicals (India ) Limited , Nagardas Road , Mogra , 
Andheri, Bombay -41, have agreed that the provisions of the Employees Provident 
Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952 ), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of sec 
tion 1 of the said Act , the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 1st day of 
October , 1956 . 

[No. P . F , II 0 ( 1 )/ 58 .] 


SEC . 8] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1, 1958 /MAGHA 12 , 1879 


251 


S . R . O . 420 . - Whereas immcdiately before the Employees Provident Funds 
Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ), became applicable , with effect from the 1st November , 
1952 , to the factory of Messrs Pearl Thread Mills Limited , at Suryodaya Mills 
Compound , Tardeo , Bombay - 7 , there was in existence a provident fund common 
to the employees employed in the factory of the said company to which the said 
Act applies and the employees in their Head Office establishment at No . 6 , 
Laxmi Buildings, Ballard Road , Fort, Bombay - 1 ; 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the said 
Act , the Central Government hereby directs that the provisions of the said Act 
shall apply to the said establishment of Head Office of the Company at No. 6 , 
I .axmi Buildings , Ballard Road . Fort , Bombay - 1 . 


[No, PF .II- 57 ( 33) / 87.] 


S . R . O . 427 . - - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment, being a fac 
tory, known as International Packing Company (Private ) Limited , 62, Lamington 
Road , Byculla , Bombay - 8 , have agreed that the provisions of the Employees Pro 
vident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said esta 
blishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (4 ) of sec 
tion 1 of the said Act , the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 1st day of 
November , 1957. 

[ No. P.F , II 9 (1) /58.] 


New Delhi, the 24th January 1958 
S . R . O . 428 / BDWS / Am . ( 6 ) . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section 
( 1 ) of section 4 of the Dock Workers ( Regulation of Employment ) Act, 1948 ( 9 of 
1948 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the following amendment in the 
Bombay Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment ) Scheme, 1956 , the same 
having been previously published as required by the said sub - section , namely : 


Amendment 
In the said Scheme, in Clause 4 , sub - clause (7 ), for paragraphs ( a ) , (b ), (c ) 
and ( d ) , the following paragraphs shall be substituted , namely : 
" ( a ) A member other than a member representing the Central Govern 

ment shall hold office for a period of three years from the date of 
the notification appointing him as a member and shall be eligible for 

re - appointment : 
Provided that an outgoing member shall continue in office until the 

appointment of his successor is notified in the Official Gazette : 
Provided further that a member appointed to fill a casual vacancy shall hold 

office for the unexpired portion of the term of the person in whose 

place he is appointed . 
( b ) A member representing the Central Government may be appointed 

either by name or by virtue of his office. Every such member shall 

hold office during the pleasure of the Central Government. 
( c ) A member other than a member representing the Central Government 

may resign his office by a letter under his hand addressed to the 
Chairman ," 

[No. Fac. 74 ( 107 ) / 57 . ] 


S . R . O . 429 / CDWS /Am . ( 2 ) . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 4 of the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act . 
1948 ( 9 of 1948 ), the Central Government hereby makes the following amendment 
in the Calcutta Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme. 1956. the 


252 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1, 1958 /MAGHA 12, 1879 [ PART U 
K A S S 

= = = = = = = = = = 
same having been previously published as required by the said sub -section , 
namely : 

Amendment 
In the said Scheme, in clause 4 , sub -clause ( 7 ) , for paragraphs (a ) , ( b ) , 

( c ) and ( d ), the following paragraphs shall be substituted , namely .. 
" ( a ) A member other than a member representing the Central Govern 

ment shall hold office for a period of three years from the date of 
the notification appointing him as a member and shall be eligible 

for re - appointment: 
Provided that an outgoing member shall continue in office until the 

appointment of his successor is notified in the official Gazette : 
Provided further that a member appointed to All a casual vacancy shall 

hold office for the unexpired portion of the term of the person in 

whose place he is appointed , 
(b ) A member representing the Central Government may be appointed 

either by name or by virtue of his office . Every such member shall 

hold office during the pleasure of the Central Government . 
( c ) A member other than a member representing the Central Government 

may resign his office by a letter under his hand addressed to the 
Chairman ." 

[No. Fac . 74 ( 107) / 57. ] 


(b) A whose place to me the unexpireappoint 


S .R . O . 430 . - - The following draft of certain further amendments to the Indian 
Dock Labourers Regulations, 1948 , which the Central Government proposes to make 
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Indian Dock Labourers Act , 
1934 ( 19 of 1934 ) , is published , as required by section 7 of the said Act, for the 
information of all persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby given 
that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 1st March 1958 . 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be taken into consideration 
by the Central Government. 


(1) the Inspector of the worker white worker 


Draft Amendment 
In the said Regulations 
1. For Regulation 12, the following shall be substituted , namely : 
" 12 . Notice of accidents and dangerous occurrences.-- 11 ) Whenever any 

accident occurs which either 
( a ) causes loss of life to a worker or 
( b ) disables a worker from work on which he was employed for the rest of 

the day of shift on which the accident occurred , notice of the accident 
shall forthwith be sent by telegram , telephone or special messenger 

within four hours of the occurrence , to 
(1) the Inspector notifed for the purpose : 
( 11) the relatives of the worker when the accident causes loss of life to the 

worker or likely to disable the worker from work for more than ten 

days; and 
( lll ) in the case of fatal accidents only , 
( a ) the officer -in - charge of the nearest Police Station ; and 
( b ) the District Magistrate or if the District Magistrate by order so directs , 

the Sub -Divisional Magistrate : 
Provided that a notice of any accident nt which notice is sent in arcordance 

with the requirements of the Explosives Art , 1884 ( 4 of 1884 ) , or the 
Petroleun Act , 1934 ( 30 of 1934 ) , need not be sent in accordance with 

the requirements of this regulation . 
In cases of accidents falling under clause ( b ) the injured person shall be 

glven Arst -aid and thereafter immediately conveyed to a hospital or 

other place of treatment. 
( 2 ) Where any accident causing disablement is notified under this regulation 

and after notiAration thereof results in the death of the person 
disabled . notice in writine of the death shall be sent to the authorities 
mentioned in sub - regulation ( 1 ) Immediately the death occurs. 


SEC. 3 ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1, 1958 /MAGHA 12, 1879 


249 


( 3 ) The following classes of dangerous occurrences shall forthwith be reported 

to the Inspector in the manner prescribed in sub -regulation ( 1 ) , 

whether death or disablement is caused or not: 
( 1) collapse or failure of lifting machinery : 
(11) bregl- age or fallure of ropes, chains or other appliances used in raising 

or lowering of persons or goods; and 
(lif) collapse or failure of means of access to or from a ship . 
( 4 ) Every notice given under sub - regulation ( 1 ) or every report made under 

sub - regulation ( 3 ) shall be confirmed within geventy -two hours of the 
occurrence by sending a written report to the Inspector in Form XII , 
provided that in case of accident under clause (b ) of sub - regulation 
( 1 ) such written report nged be sent only when the worker is disabled 
from work on which he was employed for more than forty - eight hours 

following the accident" . 
2 . In Form XII – (1) For Hom 5 (4 ), the following item shall be substituted , 
namely 

" 5 ( 4 ) Was the injured person disabled for more than forty - eight hours ? ” 
( ii) for the Instructions on the reverse , the following shall be substituted , 
namely : 

Instructions 
Notice of accidents and dangerous occurrences 
( 1) Whenever any accident occurs which either 

(a ) causes loss of life to a worker or 
(b ) disableg a worker from work on which he was employed for the rest of 

the day or shift on which the accident occurred , notice of the accident 
shall forthwith be sent by telegram , telephone or special messenger 

within four hours of the occurrence , to 
( 1) the Inspector notified for the purpose ; 
( 11) the relatives of the worker when the accident cauges logs of life to the 

worker or likely to disable the worker from work for more than ten 

days; and 
( ill ) in the case of fatal accidents only , 
( a ) the officer -in -charge of the nearest Police Station ; and 
( b ) the District Magistrate or if the District Magistrata by order so directs , 

the Sub -Divisional Magistrate : 
Provided that a notice ot any accident of which notice is sent in accordance 

with the requirements of the Explosives Act , 1884 ( 4 of 1884 ) , or the 
Petroleum Act, 1934, ( 30 of 1934 ) , need not be sent in accordance with 

the requirements of this regulation . 
In cases of accidents talling under clause (b ) of sub - regulation ( 1 ) of regu 

lation 12 , the injured person shall be given first - aid and thereatter 

Immediately conveyed to a hospital or other place of treatment. 
2 . Where any accident causing disablement is notified under this regulation and 
after notifcation thereof results in the death of the person disabled, notice in 
writing of the death shall be sent to the authorities mentioned in sub -regulation ( 1 ) 
of regulation 12 , immediately the death occurs. 

3 . The following classes of dangerous occurrences shall forthwith be reported to the 
Inspector in the manner prescribed in sub - regulation ( 1 ) on regulation 12 , whether 
death or disablement is caused or not 

( 1) collapse or failure of lifting machinery : 
( 11 ) breakage or failure of ropes , chains or other appliances used in raising 

or lowering of persons or goods ; and 
( ili) collapse or failure of means of access to or from a ship . 
4 . Every notice given under sub -regulation ( 1 ) or every report made under gub 
regulation ( 3 ) of regulation 12 , shall be confirmert within seventy - two hours of the 
occurrence by sending a written report to the Ingnector in Form XII. provided that 
in case of accident under clause ( b ) of Kub - regulation ( 1 ) of regulation 12 , such 
written report need be sent only when the worker is disabled from work on which 
he was employed for more than forty - eight hours following the accident" . 

[No. Fac . 38 ( 108 ) / 57. ) 


254 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1, 1968/MAGHA 12, 1879 


(PART II 


New Delhi, the 25th January 1958 
S . R . O . 431. — In pursuance of paragraph 3 of the Coal Mines Provident Fund 
Scheme published with the notification of the Government of India in the late 
Ministry of Labour No. PF 15 ( 5 ) 48 dated the 11th December 1948 , the Central 
Government hereby nominates Shri O . P . Mohla , Attached Financial Adviser , 
Ministry of Finance (Labour Branch ) , to the Board of Trustees , and makes the 
following further amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the 
late Ministry of Labour No. S . R . O . 2227 dated the 5th October, 1955 namely : - - 
In the said notification , for the entry " ( 2 ) Shri R , R . Agarwala , Assistant 

Financial Adviser , Ministry of Finance (Labour Division ) , New Delhi" . 
the entry " ( 2 ) Shri O . P . Mohla , Attached Financial Adviser , Ministry 
of Finance (Labour Branch ) , New Delhl" shall be substituted . 


[No. PF - I / 4 ( 35 ) 58 ] 
R . C. SAKSENA, Under Secy, 


New Delhi, the 23rd January 1958 
S .R .O . 482 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Delhi, in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to Laxmi Bank Ltd ., Delhi and Its workmen . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DELHI 

PRESENT: 
Shri E . Kr[shna Murti , Industrial Tribunal. 

13th January , 1958 
I.D . No . 271 OF 1957 

BETWEEN 
The Laxmi Bank Limited , Chandni Chowk , Delhi, 

AND 
Its workmen . 
Shri H . L . Parvana - for the workmen . 
None for the management. 

AWARD 
By G . O . No. S . R . O . dated the 17th July , 1957, the industrial dispute , between 
the Laxmi Bank Limited , Chandni Chowk , Delhi and its workmen , was referred 
to this Tribunal for adjudication under Section 10 (1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, 

8 . The term of reference is as follows: 

Whether the discharge of Shri Ram Dulare , Peon , Delhi Branch of the Laxmi 
Bank Limited , under the provisions of para . 522 ( 4 ) of the Sastry Award is sus 
tainable , and , if not, to what relief he is entitled ? 

3 . It is alleged in the statement of claim , that Shri Ram Dulare was employed 
As a Peon in a permanent vacancy by the Laxmi Bank Limited at its Chandni 
Chowk Office on 11th November , 1953 that he was in continuous service in the 
bank for over 18 months, that he was an active trade unionist, that he participat 
ed in one day s token strike of the bank employees in Delhi on 23rd September , 
1954 , that thereafter he was being harassed by the management, that his services 
were arbitrarily terminated without any enquiry , and that he must be reinstated 
together with all back wages. 

4 . The contention on behalf of the company is , that it is true that Shri Ram 
Dulare was an employee of the bank for 18 months, that he was however not in 
continuous service, as alleged , that it is not true that he was being harassed , as 
alleged , that during the period of employment as a Peon , his conduct was not 
satisfactory, that he had committed dishonest acts, that he was grossly negligent, 


SEC. $1 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1, 1968 /MAGHA 12, 1879 


25 $ 


that he did not improve in his work , that the bank had no option except to ter 
minate his service , and that the discharge of Shri Ram Dulare is legal and cannot 
be set aside. 


5 . The issues, that arise for determination , are : 
(1 ) Whether the termination of services of Shri Ram Dulare 1s lawful and 

justified ? 
(2 ) To what relief , if any , is he entitled ? 


6 . In this case at the time of trial there was no representation on bebalt of 
the management, and nobody was present on behalf of the bank . The bank was 
set ex -parte . 


Issue No. 1 

7 . According to the evidence of Shri Ram Dulare , the workman in question , 
he entered the service of the bank on 11th November , 1953 . He served con 
tinuously upto 26th May , 1955 . No employment letter was given to him . He was 
working as a Peon . At no time was he given any letter or any communication 
that he was entertained only as a temporary workman , or as a probationer . No 
communication was sent to him , that his probation was extended . Abruptly on 
20th May, 1955 he was asked to go away without any justification , and he was 
given a notice of discharge. Ext. W / 1 . The witness says, that the charges 
mentioned therein are all untrue, and that he was never guilty of any inefficiency , 
or misconduct , or of negligence . He took part in the strike of bank employees on 
23rd September, 1954. He had not received any warning prior to the date of his 
discharge. 


8 . The evidence of Shri Ram Dulare is uncontradicted. It is clear , that no 
enquiry was held by the management. The allegations of mis - conduct, inefficiency 
and dis -honesty , made in the statement of the management, bave not been esta 
blished . In the above circumstances , it must be held , that the discharge of Shri 
Ram Dulare is unlawful and unjustified , and that it is also opposed to the proyl 
sions of para . 522 ( 4 ) of the Sastry Award . The decisions in 1957 I LLJ 97 and 
1957 I LLJ 332 have been referred to in this connection by Shri Parvana for 
the workman . I find that the termination of service of Shri Ram Dulare is not 
sustainable . 


Issue No. 2 

9 . The question next is about the relief, to which he is entitled . There is no 
ground established for denying the normal reliet of re- instatement. I And that 
he is entitled to be re - instated and restored to his old post. So far as back 
wages are concerned , he has stated , that he is unemployed . The discharge took 
place long ago on 28th May, 1955 . He was getting Rs, 50 per month , It seems 
to me fair and reasonable to order payment of Rs. 300 , representing six months 
salary as compensation for forced unemployment, 


10 . In the result, the Laxmi Bank Limited will re - instate Shri Ram Dulare 
in scrvice in the Bank and restore him to his old post , which he held at the time 
of termination of his service within two weeks from the date when this award 
becomes enforceable . The said bank shall also pay him Rs. 300 by way of com 
pensation for forced unemployment. The period between 26th May , 1955 , the date 
of termination of service, and the date of re - instatement shall not operate as 
break in the continuity of service , and Shri Ram Dulare shall be deemed to haya 
continued in service during this period . No order as to costs , 

11 . An award is passed accordingly . 
( Three pages ) 
The 13th January, 1958 . 

E . KRISHNA MURTT, 
Central Govt . Industrial Tribunal, Delhi. 


[No, LR - 10 ( 72 ) / 56 .] 
A , L , HANDA, Under Secy . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


1 


156 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 1, 1958 /MAGHA 12, 1879 PART 11 - SEC. 31 

SE _ = _ - 
New Delhi, the 287d January 1958 
S . R . O . 488 . In exercise of the powers conferred by section 8 of the Coal 
Mines Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1947 (32 of 1947 ) , read with rule 3 of the Coal 
Mines Labour Welfare Fund Rules , 1949 , the Central Government hereby ap 
points Mr. R . Lall, a person nominated by the Indian Mining Association , as a 
moinber of the Advisory Committee constituted in the notification of the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment No , S . R . O , 3208 , dated 
the 8th October 1957, vice Mr. B . Mitter resigned , and makes the following further 
Amendment in the said notification , namely : 
for the entry " 8 . Mt. B . Mitter" , the entry " 8 . Mr. R . Lall" shall be 
substituted . 

[NO. MII -3 ( 1 ) / 58 .] 
S . R .O . 484 . — The Chief Inspector of Mines having nominated in pursuance of 
rulo 4 read with rule 5 of the Coal Mines Rescue Rules , 1939 , Shri R . G . Deo , 
Regional Ingpector of Mines to be a member of the Rescue Stations Committee 
in the vacancy caused by the resignation of Shri G . S . Jabbi , the Central Gov 
ernment hereby makes the following amendment in the notification of the Gov 
erament of India in the Ministry of Labour No. S . R . O . 1136 dated the 23rd May, 
1963, namely : 
In the said notification , for the entry " ( 1) Shri G . S . Jabbi, Deputy Chief 

Inspector of Mines, nominated by the Chief Inspector of Mines " the 
entry " ( 1 ) Shri R . G , Deo, Regional Inspector of Mines , nominated 
by the Chlet Inspector of Mines" shall be substituted . 

[No, MI-54 ( 7) / 57.] 
New Delhi, the 24th January 1968 
J . R . O . 495 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
8 of the Mines Act, 1982 (35 of 1952 ), the Central Government has appointed 
Shri L . M . MulaBre , an officer of the Department of Mines , to be Inspector of 
Migen subordinate to the Chief Inspector, with effect from the 18th December , 
1907 . 

[NO. MI 48 ( 83 ) / 37 .] 
S . RANGASWAMI, Under Secy . 


PRINT.ID IN INDIA BY THE OENERAL MANAOP , COVT. OF INDIA PRESS , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS , DELHI, 1958 


