REGISTERED No. D . 22 


The Gazette 


of India 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


No. 36 ] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY , SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


NOTICE 


The undermentioned Gazetteø of India Extraordinary were published upto the Ist Scp 
tember , 1956 : 


Issue 
No . 


Issue 


No . and date 


Issued by 


Issued by 


Subject 


MI 


243A S . R . O , 1931- A , Jated the 

| Appointment of date on which 
25th August 1956 . 

the Representation of the 
People (Second Amend 
inent ) Act, 1956 shall come 

into force . 
244 S . R . O . 8889 - A , dated the Ministry of Finance Life Insurance Corporation Rules, 
28th August 1956 . 

1956 , 
245 S . R . O . 1932 , dated the 28th Ministry of Labour | Appointment of date on which 
August 1956. 

certain provisions of the 
Employees State Insurance 
Act 1948 , shall come into force 
in the arca of Burhampur Mu 

nicipality . 
246 S . R . O . 1933, dated the 28th Ministry of Finance The Central Government specify 
August 1956 . 

certain securities as approved 
sccurities for the purpose of 

the Insurance Act , 1938 . 
247 | S . R . O . 1934 , dated the 28th 

Ditto Appointment of date on which 
August 1956 . 

certain sections of the In 
dustrial Disputc8 ( Amend . 
ment and Miscellaneous Pro 
visions) Act , 1956 , shall come 
into force . 


Ditto 


| S . R . O . 1935 , dated the 28th 

August 1956 , 


Appointment of date on which 

section 33 of the Industrial 
Disputes (Amendment and 
Miscellancous Provisions) Act 
1956 , shall come into force . 


248 


S . R . O . 1936 , dated the 16th 

August 1956 . 


Ministry of Finance | Orders by the Administrator , 

the Jupitor General Insurance 
Company , Limited , 


( 1471 ) 


I 472 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


(PART II — Sec . 3 


Iogue 
No. 


Name and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


249 


S. R . O . 1937 , dated the 30th 

August 1956 . 


Ministry of Finance 


Appointment of date on which 

the Life Insurance Corporation 
of India is established . 


S .R . O . 1938, dated the 30th 

August 1956 , 


Ditto 


List of members of the 

Insurance Corporation 
India , 


Life 

of 


Ditto 


S .R .O . 1939 , dated the 30th 

August 1956 . 


The Central Government Spec . 

fieo Bombay As the place 
whero the Contral Office of 
the Life Insurance Corporation 
of India shall be situate , 


250 


S . R . O . 1940 , dated the 30th 

August 1956 . 


Ministry of Labour Constitution of an Industrial 

Tribunal for the adjudication of 
dispute between the Com 
missioners for the Port of 
Calcutta and the Assistant 
Harbour Masters , 


251 


S .R . O . 1941, dated the 28th 
August 1956 


Government 
Ajmer . 


of 


Draft amendments in the Ajrrior 

State Municipalities Election 
Rules , 1955 


252 


S . R . O . 1942 , dated the 24th Election Commission , Election Petition No. 1 of 1956 . 
August 1956 . 

India , 
S . R . O . 1943 , dated the 30th Ministry of Law . The Representation of thự People 
August 1956 . 

(Conduct of Elections and 
Election Petitions) Rules , 

1956 . 
S . R . O . 1944 , dated the 30th, Election Commission , Election Petition No. 273 of 
August 1956 . 

India . 

1952 . 
S . R . O . 1945 , dated the 1st Ministry of Com Fixation of the price of tea for 
September 1996 . 

merce and Industry . the purpose of Item 5 in the 

Second Schedule to the Indian 

Tariff Act, 1934 , 
S . R . O . 1946 , dated the 1st Minigtry of Finance Exemption of cotton fabrics 
September 1956 . 

(Department of from so much of duty as in 
Revenue ) . 

excess of duty specified 
therein , 


255 


256 


1st 


Ditto 


S . R . O . 1947, dated the 

September 1956 . 


Rates of duty payable by any 
manufacturer employing 
powerlooms in the manufac 
turc of cotton fabrics , 


1st 


Ditto 


257 | S . R . O . 1948 , dated the 

September 1956 . 


Exemption of certain qualities of 
manganese ore when export 
ed , from payment of customs 
duty specified therein . 


Copies of the Garottes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on indent to the 
Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be submitted so as to reach the 
Manager within ten days of the date of issue of these Gazettes. 


PART II — Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1958 


1473 


- 


- 


PART II — Section 3 
Statutory Rules and Orders issued by the Ministries of the Government 

of India ( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and Coatral Authorities 
( other than the Chief Commissioners ) . 


MINISTRY OF LAW 

New Delhi, the 4th September 1956 
8 . R . O . 1953 . — In pursuance of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 45 of the States Re 
organisation Act, 1956 ( 37 of 1956 ) , the Central Government hereby specifes , in 
respect of each of the new States mentioned in the first column of the table below , 
the five persons mentioned against that State in the second column thereof as the 
persons whom the Delimitation Commission shall associate with itself for the 
purpose of assisting it in the performance of its functions under clause ( b ) of 
section 44 of the said Act : 


New State 


Associate Members 


I. Bombay 


, 


, 


, 


1. Shri Chiotram Gidwani, M . P . 
2 . Shri Bhawanji Khimji, M . P . 
3 . Shri Annajirao Gavanc, M . L . A . (Hyderabad ). 
4 . Shri Chitaranjan Raghunath Raja , M . L . A . 

(Saurashtra ), 
5 . Shri Kirtimantrao Bhujangrao , M . L . A . 

(Madhya Pradesh ). 


II . Kerala 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


1 . Shri K . T , Achuthan , M . P . 
2 . Shri V . P . Nayar, M . P . 
3 . Shri A . M . Thomas , M . P . 
4 . Shri N . Gopala Menon , M . L . A . (Madras). 
5 . Dr. K . B . Menon , M .L . A . (Madras ). 


III. Madhya Pradesh 


. 


. 


. 


1. Seth Govind Das, M .P . 
2 . Shri Radhelal Vyas , M . P . 
3 . Shri Shiva Dutt Upadhyaya , M . P . 
4 . Shri P . L . Inamdur, M . L . A . (Madhya Bharat). 
5 . Shri Lal Rajendra Bahadur Singh , M . L . A . 

( Vindhya Pradesh ). 


JV . Mysore 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


1. Shri C .R . Basappa , M . P . 
2 . Shri Rajaram Girdharlal Dubey , M . P . 
3 . Shri 7 . Hanumaiah , M , L . A . (Mysore ). 
1 . Shri B . I . Nagarajamurthy, M . L . A . (Mysore ). 
5 . Shri S . R . Kanthi, M .L . A . (Bombay). 


V . Punjab 


1 . Surdar Hukam Singh , M . P . 
2 . Shri Ram Partap Garg , M . P . 
3 . Shri Ranbir Singh Chaudhuri, M . P . 
4 . Sardar Ajmer Singh , M . L . A . (Punjab ). 
5 . Sardar Gurbanta Singh , M . L . A . ( Punjab ). 


VI. Rajasthan 


. 


. 


, 


. 


I. Shri Mukut Bihari Lal Bhargava, M . P . 
2 . Shri Nemi Chandra Kasliwali, M . P . 
3 . Shri Arjan Das, M . L . A . ( Ajmer ). 
4 . Shri H . D . Joshi, M . L . A . (Rajasthan ). 
5 . Shri Mohabbat Singh , M . L .A . (Rajasthan ), 


[No. F.16 ( 3) / 56 - Election .] 
K . V . K . SUNDARAM , Special Secy , 


1474 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1956 


[PART II - - SEC , 3 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 


New Delhi- 2, the 28th August 1956 


$ . R . O . 1954. - In exercise of the powers conferred by entry 3 (b ) of the table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules , 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify Rani Saheba Bharatidevi, consort of the Ruler of Chula 
for the purposes of that entry , in respect of one rifle or gun and one pistol or 
revolver 

[No. 18 / 18 / 56 -Police IV . ] 


New Delhi- 2 , the 30th August 1956 


S . R . O . 1955 . The Central Government is pleased to notify that Maharaj 
Kumar Shri Shatrushalyasinhji son of His Highness the Maharaja of Nawanagar, 
has been nominated by the said Ruler for the purposes of entry 2 ( b ) of the table 
annexed to Schedule f to the Indian Arms Rules , 1951. 

[ No . 16 / 17 / 56 - Police IV . ] 


New Delhi- 2 , the 31st August 1956 


S . R . O . 1956 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 17 of the Indian 
Arms Act , 1878 (XI of 1878 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the following 
further amendment in the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, namely : 


In sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 41 of the said Rules , after the words " Every such 
authority " the words " or the immediate official superior of such authority (not 
being the State Government ), as the case may be" , shall be inserted . 

[ No. 9 / 181/55- Police IV. ) 
C . P . S . MENON , Under Secy . 


New Delhi- 2 the 29th August 1956 


S . R . O . 1957 - In pursuance of clause (b ) of rule 2 of the Citizenship Rules , 1956 , the Central 
Government hereby appoints cach of the officers specified in column 2 of the Schedule bercto 
annexed to perform in the State of Uttar Pradesh the functions of the Collector under the bald 
Rules in respect of the arca specificd against him in the corresponding entry in column 3 and 
comprised within the district mentioned in column i of the said Schedule. 

SCHEDULE 


Name of the district 


Designation of the officer 


Arca of operation 

3 


2 


Dehradun . 
Saharanpur . 
Muzaffarnagar , 


. District Relief and Rehabilitation Dehradun district. 

Officer and Settlement Officer . 
. District Relief and Rehabilitation Officer Saharanpur district . 

and Settlement Officer , 
. Sub - Divisional Magistrate, Zuf sub - Zuf sub -division , 

division , 
Şub - divisional Magistrate, Jansath Jangath sub -division , 

sub -division , 
Sub - Divisional Magistrate, Kairana Kairana gub -division , 

sub -division , 
Sub - Divisional Magistrate, Budhana Budhana sub - division , 

gub - divişion . 
District 
District Reliet And Re 

Relief and Rehabilitation Meerut district. 
Officer and Settlement Officer. 


Meerut 


, 


PART II — Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1956 


1475 


= 


= 


= 


= 


Bulandshahr 


. 


. 


Aligarh 


. 


. 


Mathure . 


. 


Agra . 
Mainpuri . 


. 
. 


. 
. 


Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Buland - Bulandshahr sub - division , 

shahr gub -division . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Khurja Khurja sub -division , 

sub - division , 
Sub - Divisional Magistrate , Sikandra - Sikandrabad sub- division , 

bad sub - division , 
Sub - Divisional Magistrate and Settle - Anupshahr sub- division . 

ment Officer, Consolidation , 
Additional sub - Divisional Magistrate Sikandarabad sub -division . 
City Magistrate, Aligarh 

Police circle Kotwald, Banna 

devi and Civil Lines , 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate having Police circles Jawall and 

jurisdiction over Police Circle Ja - Harduganj. 

Wair and Harduganj. 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate, Hathras Hathras sub -division , 

sub - division , 
Sub-Divisional Magistrate , Sikandra Sikendra Rao sub -division , 

Rao sub - division . 
Sub - Divisional Magistrate, Atrauli Atrquli sub - division . 

sub -division , 
Şub - Divisional Magistrate, Khair sub - Khair sub -division, 

division . 
Additional Sub - Divisional Magis - Iglas sub -division . 

trate . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate, Mathura Mathura sub -division . 

sub -division , 
Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Chhata Chhata gub -division . 

sub - division . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate, Mat sub . Mat sub - division , 

division , 
Additional Sub - Divisional Magistrate, Sadabad sub -division , 

Sadabad sub -division , 
District Relief and Rehabilitation Agra district . 

Officer and Settlement Officer . 
Sub-Divisional Magistrate having Mainpuri and Karhal Teballa 

jurisdiction over Mainpuri and 

Karhal Tehsils. 
Sub - Divisional Magistrate , Shikohabad Shikahabad and Jasrana sub 
and Jasrana sub - division . 

division , 
Sub - Divisional Magistrate , Bhongaon Bhongaon gub - division , 

sub - division . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Kasganj Kasganj sub - division , 

sub - division . 
Sub- Divisional Magistrate, Aliganj Aliganj sub -division . 

sub - division . 
Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Jalesar Jalesar sub -division , 

sub - division . 
Judicial Officer and sub - divisional Etah sub -division , 

Magistratc , Etah sub -division . 
District Relief and Rehabilitation Bareilly District. 

Officer and Settlement Officer. 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Dhampur Dhampur sub - division . 

sub -division , 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate, Nagina Nagina sub - division . 

sub -division . 
Sub - Divisional Magistrate , Bijnor sub - Bijnor sub - division . 

division , 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate, Najibabad Najibabad sub -division . 

sub - division , 
Sub - Divisional Magistrate, Budaun Budaun sub -division . 

sub -division . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Dataganj Dataganj sub - division , 

sub - division , 
Sub - Divisional Magistrate, Sahaswan Sahagwan sub -division , 

sub -division , 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Gunnaur Gunnaur sub - division , 

sub - division . 
Sub - Divisional Magistrate , Bisauli Bisauli sub -division , 

sub - division , 


Etah 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Bareilly 
Bijnor 


, 
, 


. 
. 


Budaun . 


. 


. 


- 


- 


1476 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1958 


[PART II - SEC . 8 


Moradabad 
Shajahanpur 


, 
, 


Pilibhit . 


. 


Rampur . 


. 


Etawah . 


. 


Kanpur , 


. 


, 


Fatehpur 


District Relief and Rehabilitation Officer Moradabad District. 

and Settlement Officer. 
City Magistrate , Shahjahanpur , Kotwali and Sadar Bazar Police 

Circles . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Powaya Powaya sub - division . 

sub - division , 
Sub -DivisionalMagistrate , Tilhar sub - Tllbar sub -division , 

division . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Jalalabad Jalalabad sub - division , 

sub - division . 
Sub - Divisional Magistrate , Shahjahan - Shahjahanpur sub -division . 

pur sub - division , 
Sub - Divislonal Magistrate , Pilibhit Pilibhit sub - division , 

sub - division . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Bisalpur Binalpur sub - division . 

sub - division , 
Sub - Divislonal Magistrate , Puranpur Puranpur sub -division , 

sub - division , 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Suar Sadar Suar Sadar sub - division . 

sub -division . 
Sub - Divisional Magistrate, Bilaspur Bilaspur sub -division . 

sub - division , 
Sub - Divisional Magistrate, Milak Milak Shahabad sub -division 

Shahabad sub -division . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Bharthana Bharthana sub -division , 

sub - division , 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate, Auraiya Auraiya sub - division , 

sub -division . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate, Bidhuna Bidhuna sub -division , 

gub - division , 
Sub - Divisional Magistrate , Etawah Etawah sub -division . 

sub - division . 
District Relief and Rehabilitation Kanpur district, 

Officer and Settlement Officer . 
Sub -Divisional Officer, Fatehpur Sadar Fatehpur Sadar sub - division . 

gub -division . 
Sub -Divisional Officer, Khajuha gub - Khajuha sub - division , 

division . 
Sub - Divisional Officer , Khaga sub - Khaga sub -division . 

division , 
District Relief and Rehabilitation Officer Allahabad district. 

and Settlement Officer. 
City Magistrate , Fatehgarh 

Farrukhabad and Fatelgarh . 
Şub - Divisional Magistrate having Mohammadabad , Rajapur, 

jurisdiction over Mohammadabad , Kamalgan ) and portions of 
Rajapur, Kamalganj and portions of Nawabganj lying in Farru 
Nawabganj lying in Farrukhabad khabad sub - division , 

sub - division , 
Sub -Divisional Magietrate having Kaimganj, Kampil , Shamsa 

jurisdiction over Kaimganj, Kampil, bad and portions of Nawab 

Shamsabad and portions of Nawab - ganj. 
Sub - Divisional Magistarate , having Chhibramau , Saurikh and 

jurisdiction over Chhibramau , Sau - portions of Police 
rikh and portions of Police Station Station Indergarh and Gur 
Indergarh and Gurgahaiganj. 

sahaiganj. 
Sub - Divisional Magistarate having Kannau ), Thatia , portions of 

jurisdiction over Kannauj, Thatia , Gursahaiganj and Indergarh . 
portions of Gursahaiganj and Inder 

gårh . 
Sub -Divisional Magistratç, Hamirpur Hamirpur sub -division . 

sub - division . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate, Maudaha Maudaha sub -division . 

sub -division . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate, Rath Rath sub -division . 

sub - division . 
Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Mahoba Mahoba and Charkhari sub 
and Charkhari sub - division . 

division , 


Allahabad 
Farrukhabad 


. 


ganj. 


Hairpur 


. 


. 


- PART II — SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1956 


1477 


- 


- 


Banda 


, 


, 


Jhansi 


. 


, 


Jalaun 


, 


. 


Varanasi . 


. 


, Sub - Divisional Magistrate having Karwi and Mau Tahsils. 

jurisdiction over Karwi and Mau 

Tahsils , 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate having Banda Tahsil, 

jurisdiction over Banda Tahsil, 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate, having Baberu and Naraini Tahslls. 

jurisdiction over Baberu and Naraini 

Tahsils . 
. City Magistrate , Jhansi 

Jhansi City . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate, Mau -cum - Mau - cum -Garotha Sub - divi-- 
Garotha Sub -division . 

sion . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate, Jhansi Jhansi sub -divisjon ( excluding 
sub -division . 

Jhansi city ). 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Moth Moth sub -division . 

sub - division . 
Şub-Divisional Magistrate, Lalitpur Lalitpur sub -division . 

sub -division , 
. Sub - dividional Magistrate, Konch sub - Konch sub - division , 

division . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Orai and Orai and Kalpi sub -division . 

Kalpi sub - division . 
Sub -Divisional Magistatc , Jalaun Jalaun sub - division . 

sub - division , 
. Sub -Divisional Magistrate having Pargana Katihar Sultanpur Kol 

Jurisdiction over Pargana Katihar a la pandrah athgawan And 
Sultanpur Kol asla pandrah athgawan Jalhupur of Tahsil Varaonai. 

and Jalhupur of Tahsil Varanasi. 
Şub - Divisional Magistrate having Parganas Kaswar raja Kaswar 

jurisdiction over Parganay Kaswar Saukari debat amanat Sheo 
raja Kaswar Saukari dehat amanat pur and Ramnagar of Tahsil 
Sheopur and Ramnagar of Tahsil Varanasi 

Varanasi 
Sub -Divisional Magistrae having Parganas Mahaich , Barhwar, 

jurisdiction over Parganas Mahaich , and Narawan of Tahsil 
Majhwar and Narawan of Tahsil Chandauli, 

Chandauli. 
Sub - Divisional Magistrate having Parganas Barah , Barhwal, 

jurisdiction over Parganas Barah , Mawai, Mohuari dhus and 
Barhwal, Mawai, Mohauritdhus and Ralhpur of Tahsil Chandauli, 

Ralhpur of Tahsil Chandauli. 
Sub - Divisional Magistratc , Bhadohi Bhadohi sub -division . 

Sub - Division 
Sub -Divisional Magistrale , Chakia Chakia sub -division . 

sub - division . 
. Şub - Divisional Magistrate Sadar Sub - Sadar sub - division . 

sub - Division . 
Sub - Divisional Magistrate , Chunar Chunar sub - division . 

sub - division . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate, Dhudhi Dudhi sub -division . 

sub - didions. 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Roberto - Robertoganj sub - division . 

ganj sub - division , 
Şub-Divisional Magistrate , Jaunpur Jaunpur. 

sub - division . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate having Karakat Tahsil. 

jurisdiction over Karakat Tahsil . 
Sub - Divisional Magistrate having Mariahu Tahsil 

jurisdiction over Mariahu Tahsil. 
Additional Sub - Divisional Magistrate , Shahganj Tahsil. 

having jurisdiction over Shahganj 

Tahsil . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate having Machhli Shahr Tahsil, 

jurisdiction over Muchlili Shahar 
Tahsil . 


Mirzapur , 


, 


Jaunpur , 


, 


1478 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


[ PART 11 - SEC . S 


Ghazipur . 


, 


Ballia 


. 


. 


Gorakhpur 


Basti 


, 


. 


Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Ghazipur Ghazipur sub-division . 

sub - division . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrale , Moham Mohammadabad sub -division , 

madabad sub -division . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Zamanie Zamania sub -division . 

sub -division , 
Sub - divisional Magistrate, Saidpur Saidpur sub -division . 

sub -division . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate, Ballia Ballia sub -division . 

sub -division . 
Sub - Divisional Magistrate, Bansdih Bansdih Sub -division . 

sub -division 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Rasra Rasra Sub -division . 

sub -division . 
City Magistrate , Gorakhpur. 

Gorakhpur Kotwali and 

Cantonment areas. 
Sub - Divisional Magistrale , Gorakh - Gorakhpur sub - division ( ex 
pur sub -division . 

cluding areas of Gorapkh 
pur Kotwali And Can 

tonment.) 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Bansgaon Bansgaon sub- division . 

sub - division . 
Sub -Divisioanl Magistrate , Maharaj - Maharajganj Sub - division . 

ganj sub -division . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Pharenda Pharenda sub -division . 

sub - division . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Bansi Bansi sub-division 

sub - division . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate Basti Basti Sub -Division 

sub - division , 
Sub -Divisional Magistrale , Domaria - Domariaganj sub -division . 

ganj sub - division , 
Sub - Divisional Magistrate , Harraiya Harraiya sub -division . 

sub - division . 
Sub-Divisional Magistrate , Nowgarh Nowgarh sub - division . 

Sub - division 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate, Khalilabad Khalilabad sub -division , 

sub -division , 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Sadar sub - Sadar sub - division . 

division . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Moham - Mohammadabad sub - division . 

madabad sub - division , 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Phulpur Phulpur sub - division . 

sub - division . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate, Ghosi Ghosi sub -division . 

sub -division . 
Sub - Divisional Magistrate, Lalgunj Lalganj sub -division . 

sub -division . 
Sub- divisionul Magistrate , Sagri Sagri sub - division , 

sub -division . 
Sub - Divisional Mugistrate. Deoria Dcoria sub -division . 

sub -division . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrale, Salempur Salempur sub -division . 

sub - division . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate, Hata sub - Hata sub -division . 

division , 
Sub - divisional Magistrate , Padrauna Padrauna sub -division . 

sub -division . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate, having Naivital Tahsil. 

jurisdiction over Nainital Tehsil, 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate , having Peshkaries of Kaladanghi , 

jurisdiction over Peshkaries of Kala Sitturganj und Khatin 
danghi, Sittarganj and Khatima Tahsils Haldwani and 
Tahsila Jaldyani and Kichha , 

Kichha . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Kashipur Peshkaries of Ramnagar, Baz 

Pur and Tahsil Kashipur. 


Azamgarh 


Deoria ) . 


Nainital . 


. 


PART II— Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1956 


1478 


- 


* 


Almora 


. 


Garhwal , 


, 


, 


Tchri 


. 


. 


. 


Lucknow . 


, 


. 


Sub- Divisional Magistrate , Baraman - Baramandal sub - division . 

dal sub -division , 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Pali sub - Pali sub -division , 

division . 
Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Lohaghat Lohaghat sub - division . 

sub -division . 
Sub - Divisional Magistrate, Pithora - Pithoragarh sub -division . 

garh sub - division , 
Sub -Divisional Officer, Lansdowne I ansdowne sub - division . 

sub -division . 
Sub -Divisional Officer, Chamoli sub - Chamoli sub -division , 

division . 
Sub -Divisional Officer Baranayam Barensym sub - division . 

sub - division , 
Sub -Divisional Maistrate , Tehri. Tehri and Pratapnager 

Tahsils and Dhanolti Pesh 

kari, 
Sub -DivisionalMagistrate, Uki, UkiPeshkari and Rawain Tah 

sil . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate Kirtinagar. Devaprayag Tahsil. 
City Magistrate - cum - Sub - Divisional Narendranagar and Patties 
Magistrate , Narendranagar. 

of Kunjani and Dhamai 

syun , 
District Relief and Rehabilitation Lucknow District . 

Officer and Settlement Officer. 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Safpur Safipur sub -division , 

sub -division . 
Şub - Divisional Magistrate and Settle - Unnao sub - division , 
ment Officer (Consolidation ), Un 

nao sub -division , 
Sub -divisional Magistrate, Hasanganj Hasanganj sub -division . 

sub -division . 
Sub-Divisional Magistrate , Purwa Purwa sub -division 

gub - division , 
Additional Sub -Divisional Magistrate Unng sub -division , 

and Judicial Officer, Unnao sub 

division , 
Şub -Divisional Magistrate , Rac Bareli Rae Bareli sub -division . 

sub -division . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Dalmau Dalmau sub -division. 

sub - division , 
Sub-Divisioual Magistrate , Saloni Saloni sub -division 

sub - division , 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Maharaj- Maharajganj sub - division , 

ganj sub -division . 


Unnao 


. 


. 


. 


Rac Bareli 


Sitapur 


. 


. 


. 


Additional District Magistrate and Sitapur sub -division 

Sub -Divisional Magistratu , Sitapur 

Sub -Division . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrale, Sidhauli Sidhauli sub - division . 

sub - division . 
Sub-Divisional Mugistrate , Biswan Biswan sub - division , 

sub - division . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Misrikh Misrikh sub -division . 

sub -division , 


Har loi . 


. 


Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Hardoi Hardoi sub -division , 

sub -division . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate, Shaliabad Shahabad sub -division . 

sub -division , 
Sub -Divi ional Magistrate . Sundila Sundila sub -division . 

sub -division . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate , and judicial Bilgram sub -division , 

Judicial Officer, Bilgram sub 
division , 


1480 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


[ PART II — SEC . 


Kheri . . . Sub - Divisional Magistrate, Lakhim - Lakhimpur sub - division , 

pur sub - divişion . 
Sub - Divựsional Magistrate , Mohamdi Mohamdi sub -division , 

sub -division . 
Sub - Divisional Magistrate , Nighasan Nighasan sub - division , 

sub -diviõion . 
Faizabad , City Magistrate, Faizabad 

Faizabad and Ayodhya towns . 
Additional sub -Divisional Magistrate , Faizabad Tahsil ( Sadar). 

having jurisdiction Over Faizabad 

Tahsil (Sadar ) . 
Sub- Divisional Magistrate , having Akbarpur Tahsil. 

jurisdiction over Akbarpur Tahgil. 
Sub - Divisional Magistrate, having Tanda Tahsil. 

jurisdiction over Tanda Tahsil. 
Şub - Divisional Magistrate having Bikapur Tahsil . 

jurisdiction over Bikapur Tahsil. 
Gonda , , Sub - Divisional Magistrate , Gonda Gonda sub -division , 

sub - division , 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate, Utraula Utraula sub -division 

sub - division . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate, Tarabganj Tarabganj sub - division . 

sub -division , 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate, Balrampur Balrampur şub - division . 

sub -division , 
Bahraich , 

Sub -Divisional Magistrate , having Bahraich Tahsil. 

jurisdiction over Babraich Tahsil. 
Sub - divisional Magistrate having Kaisarganj Tahsil. 

jurisdiction over Kaigarganj Tahsil. 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate, having Nanpara Tahsil. 

jurisdiction over Nanpara Tahsil, 

Şub -Division , 
Sultanpur . . Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Sadar sub - Sadar sub -division . 

division , 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate, Kadi ur Kadipur sub -division , 
sub -division , 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Muzafir - Muzafirkhana sub -division . 

khana sub -division , 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate, Amethi Amethi sub -division . 

sub - diyißion . 
Pratapgarh 

Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Patti Patti sub -division , 

sub - division . 
Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Kunda Kunda sub -division , 

sub -division , 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate, Tahsil Tahsil Sadar sub -division . 

Sadar sub -division , 
Bara Banki 

Şub -Divisional Magistrate , Nawab - Nawabganj sub -division , 

ganj sub - division . 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate, Fateh - Fatehpur sub -division. 

pur sub - diviſion , 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Ram Ram SanchiGhat sub -division , 

SanehiGhat sub -division , 
Sub -Divisional Magistrate , Haider - Haidergarh sub - division . 
garh sub - division 

[No. 10 /3 /56 (i)- IC .] 
S .R . O . 1958 . - In pursuance of clause (b ) of rule 2 of the Citizenship Rules , 1956 , the 
Central Government hereby appoints cach of the officers specified in column į of the Schedule 
hereto annexed to perform in the State of Madhya Pradesh the functions of the Collector under 
the said Rules in respect of the arca specified against him in the corresponding entry in column 2 
of the said Schedule . 


SCHEDULE 


Designation of Officer 


Area 


2 


All Sub -Divisional Officers . 


The area within their respective 

jurisdiction . 


[No. 10 /3 /56 (11)- IC .) 


PART INSEC, 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1956 


1481 


S . R . O . 1959 .- Io pursuance of clause (b ) of rule 2 of the Citizenship Rules , 1956 , the 
Central Government hereby appoints cach of the officers specified in column i of the Schedule 
hereto annexed to perform in the State of Bombay the functions of the Collector under the sald 
Rules in respect of the area specified against him in the corrcsponding entry in column 2 of 
the said Schedule . 


SCHEDULE 


Designation of Officer 


Area 


Ulhasnagar Township , District 

Thana . 


Administrator, Ulhasnagar 

Township . 
Administrator , 

Sardarnagar Township . 


Sardarnagar Township , District 

Ahmedabad . 


LwVINA 


[No. 10 /3 /56 (ii)- IC .} 


S . R . O . 1960 . — In pursuance of clause (b ) of rule 2 of the Citizenship Rules, 1956 , the Cen 
tral Government hereby appoints cach of the officers specified in column 1 of the Schedule hereto 
annexed to perform in the State of Patiala and East Punjab States Union the functiong of the 
Collector under the said Rules in respect of the area specified against him in the corresponding 
entry in column 2 of the said Schedule , 


SCHEDULE 


Designation of Officer 


Area 

2 


Sub - Divisional Officer , Barnala . 
Sub - Divisional Officer , Jind 
Sub - Divisional Officer , Malerkotla . 
Sub -Divisional Officer , Kandaghat 
Sub - Divisional Officer , Manga , 

Şub - Divisional Officer , Faridkot. . . 
7 . Sub - Divisional Officer , Bassi. 
8 . Extra Assistant Commissioners, Patiala . 

Extra Assistant Commissioner , Kapurthala . 
10 . Extra Agsistant Commissioners, Bhatinda 
II , Extra Assistant Commissioner , Narnaul, . 
12 . Extra Assistant Commissioner , Sangrur . 


nantnonoda 


Within their respective jurisdic 
tion , 


[No.10 /3/56 (iv)- IC .) 


S . R . O . 1961. — In pursuance of clause (b ) of rule 2 of the Citizenship Rules , 1956 , the 
Central Government hereby appoints the officer specified in column I of the Schedule hcreto 
annexed to perform in the State of West Bengal the functions of the Collector under the said 
Rulcs in respect of the area specified against him in the entry in column 2 of the said Schedule . 


SCHEDULE 


Designation of Officer 


Area 


Deputy Controller, Refugee Relief and Rehabilitation , 

Ranaghat (Nadia ) 


Ranaghat Sub - division , Nadia 

District , 


[No. 10 /3 /56 ( v)- IC . 


1482 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1956 


[ PART II SEC. 3 


CORRIGENDUM 
S . R . O . 1962. - In the Schedule annexed to the Notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs No . 10 / 3 / 56 - ( iii ) - IC , dated the 1st 
August, 1956 , published at page 1354 of the Gazette of India , Part II Section 3 , 
dated the 11th August, 1956 and corrected by Corrigendum No. 10 / 3 / 56 - IC , dated 
the 14th August , 1956 , published at page 1406 of the Gazette of India , Part II 
Section 3 , dated the 25th August, 1956 , in items 6C and 12 for " Sub - Divisional 
Relief Officery " read " Sub - Divisional Relief and Rehabilitation Officers" . 

[No. 10 / 3 /56 ( vi ) - IC .] 
FATEH SINGH , Dy. Secy . 


ORDERS 

New Delhi- 2 , the 4th September 1956 
S . R . O . 1963. - In pursuance of the provisions of Section 28 ( 3 ) ( a ) of the Govern 
ment of Part C States Act, 1951 (XLIX of 1951) , the President is pleased to 
determine that the expenditure for the year 1956 -57 relating to the Office of the 
Chief Commissioner , Ajmer, other than the emoluments and allowances of the 
Chiet Commissioner , shall be an amount not more than Rs. 29 , 400 ( Rupess twenty 
nine thousands and four hundred only ) . 

[No. 13 / 13 / 56 -Ac. II ( 1) . ] 
S . R . O . 1964 . In pursuance of the provisions of Section 28 ( 3 ) ( a ) of the Govern 
ment of Part C States Act , 1951 ( XLIX of 1951) , the President is pleased to 
determine that the expenditure for the years 1956 -57 relating to the Office of the 
Chief Commissioner, Bhopal, other than the emoluments and allowances of the 
Chief Commissioner, shall be an amount not more than Rs. 42 , 100 ( Rupees forty 
two thousands and one hundred only ) . 

[No. 13 / 13 / 56- Ac.II ( 2 ) . ] 


S . R . O . 1968 . — In pursuance of the provisions of Section 28 ( 3 ) ( a ) of the Gov 
ernment of Part C States Act, 1951 ( XLIX of 1951) , the President is pleased to 
determine that the expenditure for the year 1956 -57 relating to the Office of the 
Chief Commissioner , Coorg, other than the emoluments and allowances of the 
Chiet Commissioner , shall be an amount not more than Rs. 36 ,800 ( Rupees thirty 
six thousands and eight hundered only ) . 

[ No. 13 / 13 /56 - AC.II ( 3 ). ] 


S . R . O . 1966 . — In pursuance of the provisions of Section 28 ( 3 ) ( a ) of the Gov . 
ernment of Part C States Act , 1951 (XLIX of 1951 ) , the President is pleased to 
determine that the expenditure for the year 1956 -57 relating to the Office of the 
Chief Commissioner , Delhi, other than the emoluments and allowances of the 
Chief Commissioner, shall be an amount not more than Rs. 50 , 500 (Rupees fifty 
thousands and five hundred only ) . 

[No. 13 / 13 /56-Ac. II (4 ). ] 


S . R .O . 1967. — In pursuance of the provisions of Section 28 ( 3 ) ( a ) of the Goy 
ernment of Part C States Act 1951 (XLIX of 1951 ) . the President is pleased 
to determine that the expenditure for the year 1956 - 57 relating to the office of 
the Lieutenant Governor , Himachal Pradesh other than the emoluments and 
allowances of the Lieutenant Governor, shall be an amount not more than 
Rs. 46 , 100 ( Rupees forty - six thousands and one hundred only ) . 

[No. 13 / 13 /56 -AC, II ( 5 ). ] 


sands and one hundreamount notoluments and 


S . R . O . 1968 . - In pursuance of the provisions of Section 28 ( 3 ) ( a ) of the Gov 
ernment of Part C States Act , 1951 (XLIX of 1951) , the President is pleased to 
determine that the expenditure for the year 1956 -57 relating to the Office of the 
Lieutenant Governor, Vindhya Pradesh other than thc emoluments and allowances 
of the Lieutenant, Governor, shall be an amount not more than Rs. 94 , 900 
( Rupecs ninety - four thousands and nine hundred only . ) 

[No. 13 / 13 / 56 -Ac. II ( 6 ). ] 
HARI SHARMA , Jt. Secy . 


I ART II - Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1956 


1483 


- - - - - - - 


- 


- 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 14th August 1956 
S . R . O . 1969. — In pursuance of sub -Section ( 2 ) of Section 4 of the Port Haj 
Committees Act, 1932 (XX of 1932 ) , the Central Government is pleased to nomi 
nate Shri D . D . Sethna , Regional Traffic Superintendent Western Railway, Bom 
bay as a member of the Port Haj Committee, Bombay vice Shri B . N . Wahal. 

[No . 547-WANA / 56 . ] 
MOHD. YUNUS , Dy. Secy . 


New Delhi, the 28th August 1956 
S . R . O . 1970 / APP / CGE /56 / 4 . - Shri K . Ram , Joint Secretary to the Government 
of India in the Ministry of External Affairs, New Delhi, has taken over the func 
tions of the Controller General of Emigration with the Government of India , with 
effect from the 6th August 1956 , vice Shri M . R . A . Baig . 

[ No . F .4 - 40 /56 - Emí. ) 
P . SOMASEKHARAN , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 4th September 1956 
S . R . O , 1971, - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
4 of the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1947, and of all other powers enabling in this 
behalf , the Central Government sincerely orders that the President of the Perma 
nent Commission of the Representative Assembly Pondicherry shall receive a 
remuneration of Rs. 200 per month , with effect from 20th August, 1956 in addition 
to the salary and allowances admissible to him as Member of the Representative 
Assembly , Pondicherry , vide this Ministry s Notification No . S . R .O . ( F . 10 - 103 /55 
GP ) [ FJA - 4 ( I) ] , dated 2nd January , 1956 . 

[No. 597 / 56 -GP .) 
MAHBOOB AHMED , Under Secy , 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

New Delhi, the 1st September 1956 
S . R . O . 1972 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution and after consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor 
General of India as required under clause (5 ) of article 148 of the Constitution in 
respect of persons employed in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, the 
President hereby makes the following amendments in the Civil Service Regulations, 
namely : 

In the said Regulations, after article 367- B , the following articles shall be 
inserted , namely : 

" 357 - C . Civil employees other than those governed by Article 357 - D , who, 
prior to their civil appointment against war - reserved and other permanent 
vacancies which arose for direct recruitment before the 1st January 1948 , had 
rendered satisfactory paid whole - time, enlisted or commissioned war service 
between the 3rd September 1939 and the 1st April, 1945, in the Armed Forces of 
India or similar Forces of a Commonwealth country which did not earn a service 
pension under the Military , Naval or Air Force Rules shall be allowed to count 
such war service including sick leave taken during such service , for the purpose 
of civil pension , subject to the following conditions : 

( 1 ) Completed years of the said war service shall be allowed to count up to 
a maximum of five years . 


( 2 ) In the case of Services / Posts in which a minimum age is fixed for recruit 
ment no war service rendered below that age shall be allowed to count for 
pension , and in the case of Services /Posts in which no minimum age is fixed , no 
portion of war service rendered before attaining the age of 20 or 18 as the case 


1484 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1956 


(PART II — SEC. 3 


may be according as the Services / Posts are Classes I to III or Class IV shall be 
allowed to count for pension . 

( 3 ) The addition of war service shall not be included in total service under 
Article 408 of these Regulations for the purpose of counting leave as service for 
pension 

(4 ) War service rendered in the Armed Forces of India and rendered in 
almilar Forces of a Commonwealth country shall be allowed to count alike for 
pension ; no contribution towards, or share of, a pension earned as a result of this 
concession being claimed from the foreign government concerned . 

(5 ) No refund of bonus or gratuity paid to the employees in respect of such 
*war service shall be demanded from the employees . 

957- D . Members of the Services specified in the Schedule below who, prior to 
their appointment to those Services / Posts against war - reserved and other perma 
nent vacancies which arose for direct recruitment before the 1st January 1948 
had rendered satisfactory , paid whole - time, enlisted or commissioned war service 
between the 3rd September 1939 and the 1st April 1946 in the Armed Forces of 
India or similar Forces of a Commonwealth country which did not earn a service 
pension under the Military , Naval or Air Force Rules may count such war 
service including sick leave taken during such service, for civil pension of all 
kinds subject to the following conditions : 

( 1 ) Completed years of war service rendered after the attainment of the 
minimum age mentioned in the Schedule to this Article shall be allowed to count 
up to a maximum of five years. 


( 2 ) The addition so made shall not be included in total service under Article 
408 of these Regulations for the purpose of counting leave as qualifying for pension . 

( 8 ) War service rendered in the Armed Forces of India and that rendered in 
similar Forces of a Commonwealth country shall be allowed to count alike for 
pension ; no contribution towards, or a share of , a pension earned as a result of 
this concession being claimed from the foreign government concerned . 

(4 ) No refund of bonus or gratuity paid to the employees in respect of such 
*war service shall be demanded from the employees . 


SCHEDULE 


Şervice or post 


Minimum Age 


Indian Audit & Accounts Service , 
Indian Customs Service . 
Indian Defence Accounts Service . 
Indian Incomo- Tax Service . 
Assistant Master, India Şccurity Press. 
Assistant Master , Indla Government Mint. 
Editor , " India Speaks" . 
Indian Meteorological Service. 
Assistant Electrical & Mechanical Officer, Civil Aviation 

Department. 
Senior Aircraft Inspector, Civil Aviation Department. 
Aircraft Inspector, Civil Aviation Departnent. 
Roscorch Officer , Pathology (Poultry RÇocarch Section ) , 

Indian Veterinary Research Institute , Izutnagar . 


21 years 
21 years 
21 years 
21 years 
24 yoars 
24 years 
24 yours 
23 years 


25 years 
30 years 
28 years 


25 years 


[No. F , 11( 21) -EV /56 .) 
J. C . SEN , Dy. Secy . 


PART II- Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


1485 


(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 8th September, 1956 
8 .R . O . 1978 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the 
Banking Companies Act, 1949 ( 10 of 1949 ) , the Central Government on the 
recommendation of the Reserve Bank of India , hereby declare that the provi 
sions of section 11 of the said Act shall not apply to the Bareilly Bank ( Private ) 
Ltd ., Bareilly , for a period up to and including the 31st March 1957. 

[No. F . 4 (81) -FI/ 56 .] 
J. L . KUNDU , Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Economic Affairg) 

New Delhi, the 3rd September , 1956 
S . R . O . 1974 . - The following draft of certain amendments to the Public Debt 
Rules , 1948 , which the Central Government proposes to make in exercise of the 
powers conferred by Section 28 of the Public Debt Act, 1944 ( 18 of 1944 ) , is hereby 
published as required by sub - section ( 1 ) of that section for the information of 
all persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the 
draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 15th September , 1956 . 

Any objection or suggestion received from any persons with respect to the 
said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the Central Goy 
ernment, 

Draft Amendments 
In the said Rules: - 

( 1) In rule 1, for sub - rule ( 2 ), the following sub - rule shall be substituted 
namely : 

" (2 ) — These rules shall come into force on the 1st May , 1946 ” . 
( 2 ) In sub - rule (5 ) of rule 3 , for the words and figure " Ruler of a Part B 
State " , the words " Ruler of a former Indian State " , shall be substituted ; 

( 3 ) In rule 6 

( a ) in the heading, for the words " Ruler of a State " the words " Ruler of a 
former Indian State " shall be substituted ; 

( b ) in sub - rule ( 1 ) for the words " Ruler of a State in India " , the words 
" Ruler of a former Indian State " shall be substituted . 

(4 ) in sub -rule (4 ) of rule 7 for the words and figure " Ruler of a Part B State" , 
the words " Ruler of a former Indian State" shall be substituted ; 

( 5 ) in sub -rule ( 2 ) ( b ) ( ili) of rule 8 , after the word " Governor , the words 
" or Rajpramukh , as the case may ," shall be inserted ; 

( 6 ) in rule de 
( a ) in sub - rule ( 1 ) ( a ) , the words " the States of” shall be omitted ; 
( b ) for sub - rule (2 ) the following sub -rule shall be substituted , namely : 
" ( 2 ) Stock - Interest on stock shall be paid by warrants issued by the 

Public Debt Office and payable at the local office of the Bank or if 
the holder so desires by money order after deducting the commission 
charges . Such warrants may at the request of the holder of the stock 
preferred in writing to the Public Debt omce, be made payable sub 
ject to compliance by the holder with such formalities as the Public 

Debt Otce may require, 
( a ) in the case of stock of a loan of the Central Government at any other 

Indian Office of the Reserve Bank of India or any agency thereof 
conducting Government treasury business or at any treasury or sub 

treasury in India ; 
( b ) in the case of stock of a loan of a State Government at any other Indian 

office of the Reserve Bank of India or any agency thereof conducting 
treasury business in the State concerned or any treasury or sub 

treasury within that State , 
The presentation of stock certificate shall not be required at the time of 

payment of interest, but the payee shall acknowledge receipt at the 

back of the warrant” .; 
( c ) in sub - rule (4 ) , for the words " or Madras " , the words "Madras or 

Bangalore" shall be substituted . 


1486 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1956 [ PART II — Sec . 3 

- - - - - -- - - - - - - - 
( 7 ) In rule 22 — 

(a ) in sub -rule ( 3 ) ( ii ), the words“ , or in the case of a Part B State , the 
Political Agent" shall be omitted ; 

( b ) in sub - rule (5 ) ( ii ) ( a ) , the words " or the Political Agent, as the case 
may be" shall be omitted ; 

( 8 ) in sub - rule ( 1 ) ( b ) ( ii ) of rule 24 , after the words "Governor" , the words . 
" or Rajpramukh , as the case may be," shall be inserted . 

(9 ) in the proviso to sub - rule 3 of rule 29 for the word " Jittle" , the word 
" title " shall be substituted ; 

( 10 ) in proviso (b ) to rule 31 — 

( a ) for the words " Imperial Bank of India " , the words " the State Bank of 
India " shall be substituted ; 

(b ) in the bracket, before the word for the words " or the Imperial Bank of 
India " may be inserted ; 

( 11) In the schedule, in Form I 

( a ) for the words " Rulers of States in India " , the words " Rulers of former 
Indian States " shall be substituted ; 

( b ) for the words "Governor General of India in Council" wherever they 
occur, the words " President of India " shall be substituted . 

(No. F . 7 (33)- B /56.) 


8 . R . O . 1975. — The following draft of an amendment to the Public Debt 
( Annuity Certificates) Rules , 1954 , which the Central Government proposes to 
make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 28 of the Public Debt Act , 
1944 ( 18 of 1944 ) , is hereby published as required by sub -section ( 1 ) of that 
section for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby and notice 
is hereby given that the draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 
15th September , 1958 . 


Any objection or suggestion received from any person with respect to the 
said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the Central Govern 
ment. 

Draft Amendment 
In sub -rule ( 2 ) of rule 1 of the said rules — 
(a ) Clause (i) shall be omitted ; 
( b ) in clause ( ii ), the brackets and figures " ( ii) ” shall be omitted . 

[No. F .7 ( 33 ) - B / 56. ) 


S .R . O . 1976 . The following draft of an amendment to the Pubilc Debt 
( Compensation Bonds ) Rules, 1954 , which the Central Government proposes to 
make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 28 of the Public Debt Act , 
1944 ( 18 of 1944 ) , is hereby published as required by sub - section ( 1 ) of that 
Section for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby and notice 
is hereby given that the draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 
15th September, 1956 . 


Any objection or suggestion received from any person with respect to the said 
draft before the date so specified will be considered by the Central Government. 


Draft Amendment 


In the said rules, for sub - rule (2 ) of rule 1 the following sub - rule shall be 
substituted , namely : 
" ( 2 ) They shall apply to a Government Security in the form of a bond 
issued under section 2 ( 2 ) ( b ) of the Act." 

[No. F.7 ( 33 )- B /56. 
K , C . DAS , Under Secy . 


PART II-- Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1956 


1487 


(Department of Company Law Administration ) 

New Delhi, the 1st September , 1958 
S . R . O . 1977 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
641 of the Companies Act, 1956 ( 1 of 1956 ) , the Central Government makes the 
following alterations in Schedule IX to the said Act, namely : 

In Form of Proxy No . II, an asterisk should be inserted against the words 
" Form for affording members an opportunity of voting for or against a resolution " 
at the head of the form , and the following shall be inserted as a foot note at the 
end of the form : 


in favour of the resolution . 
""* This form is to be used - - - 

* against 
Unless otherwise instructed the proxy will act as he thinks Alt . 
* Strike out whichever is not desired ." 

[No. 3 / 17/56- PR .] 
F . N . SANYAL, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE ) 


CENTRAL EXCISES 
New Delhi, the 1st September 1956 


S . R . O . 1978 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 8 of the Central 
Excise Rules , 1944 , as in force in India and as applied to the State of Pondi 
cherry, the Central Government hereby makes the following amendment in the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Revenue 
Division ) No . CER - 8 ( 5 ) / 56 , dated the 1st March , 1956 , namely : 
For the words and figures " the Arst 125 tons" , occurring in part ( i) of the 

said notification , the words and figures " a quantity not exceeding 
125 tons" shall be substituted . 

[No. CER -8 ( 21 ) / 56.] 
S . R . O . 1979.-- In exercise of the powcis conferred by section 37 of the Central Excises and 
Salt Act, 1944 ( I of 1944), as in force in India , and as applied to the State of Pondicherry , the 
Central Government hereby makes the following further amendments in the Central Excise Rules , 
1944 , namely - 

In the said Rules 
1. For sub -rule (1) of rule 175 , the following sub -rule shall be substituted , namely ~ 
“ ( I ) Every person desiring to engage in operations requiring the possession of a licence as 

aforesaid shall apply in writing every year for a licence or renewal thercof to the license 
ing authority who shall be such officer as the Central Board of Revenue may authorize 

in this bchalf." . 
2 . For the Table subjoined to sub - rule (2 ) of rule 176 , the following Table shall be subs 
tituted : 


« TABLE 


Rupect 


Five . 


I. Unmanufactured products ; 
I) A curer who intends to (a ) one hundred , or more 
cure in the following year , than one hundred , stan 

dard maunds ; 
(6 ) ices than one hundred 

standard maunds ; 


Nil. 


1488 


TAS GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8, 1958 


[Puar II Sec . 


Rupoat . 


(3 ) A whole lo dealer in (a ) two thousand , or more of such products One 

unmanufactured tobacool than two thousand, stan - [ during the 12 hundred . 
who purchased for the dard maunda ; 

months preceding 
purpose of trade or manu 

the 1st day of Oct 
facture . 

(b ) more than one thou - " | ober prior to the 

I sand , but less than two / year for which the Fifty. 
(1 ) A wholesale dealer In | thousand , standard licence is to be STRA 
Other unmanufactured maunds ; 

ted . 
products who purchases 
fron curer . (c) more than five hun 

Twenty five 
dred , but not more than 
one thousand , standard 
maundg. 
(d ) more then two hund 

Ten. 
red and fifty , but not 
more than five hundred 
standard maunda ; 


Fivc . 


( ) more than fifty, but not 
more than two hundred 
and fifty standard mau 
nds. 


Afty standard maunde 
or less. 


One. 


(4 ) A broker or commission ) (a ) two thousand , or more 

agent dealing in unmanu -1 than two thousand stand - / 
factured tobacco , who [ erd maunds ; 
broker . 

(6 ) more than one thou 
( 5) A broker or commission pand , but less than two 

agent dealing in other thousand standard mau 
unmanufactured products nds ; 
who negotiates the pur 
chasc , from a curer , or J o more than five hund 

red , but not more than 
one thousand , standard 
maunda ; 


of such products Fifty . 
during the 12 mon 
the preceding the 
Ist day of October 
prior to the year Twerisos , 
for which the 11 
cenor is to be gren 
ted , 


Ten . 


Five . 


(d ) more than two hun 
dred and fifty , but not 
more than five hundred , 
• gtandard maunds ; 


(a ) two hundred and fifty 
standard møunds or lega . 


Onc. 


( 


The holder of a private (a ) two thousand , 
bonded storeroom or more than two thousand , 
warehouse which houses. standard maunds ; 


Twet 
five 


Ten . 


( ) more than five hund 
red , but less than two 
thousand , standard mau 
nds ; 


Flvę. 


( c ) more than one hund 
red , but not more than 
five hundred , standard 
maunds ; 
( d ) one hundred standard 
mounds or less. 


Onc 


Puar [I - Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1958 


1489 


Rupeer . 


II. Manufactured products : 

A manufacturer 
If the duty paid by hlia during the 12 month , preocding the rst day of 
tobor prior to the ycar for which the licence is to be renewed -- 
more than Rs. 25 , 000 

. . One hundred . 
( 11 ) more than Rs. 10 ,000 but not more than Rs. 25 , 000 

Ks. 25,000 . . Pifty , 
( H1) more than Rs. 5 , 000 but not more than Rs. 10 , 000 . . Twenty - five. 
(iv ) more than R . 1000 but not morc than Rs. 5 ,000 . 

(u ) nil , or not more than Rs. 1, 000 . . . . . . Five . 
IH . A manufacturer of splints and vencers or composition for match heads One hundred . 
IV . Thouse of excisable goods without payinent of duty for special Indus 
trial purposes (Rule 192 ). . . . . . . 

. One hundred , 


Ten . 


Explanation . — In respect of a new applicant , or where a licence has to be issued in respect of a 
aanmodity on which an excise duty has been imposed for the first time during the middle of the 
Year prior to the year for which the licence is to be granted , the duty or quantity for the purpose 

determining the licence fec shall be the duty or quantity as may be estimated by the licensing 
authority on the basis of auch Information as may be evallable to him . 


2 . In Appendix I for item 7 in the Schedule appended to Form AL. 4 
( Central Excise Series No. 6 ) , the following item shall be substituted , namely 
* 47. Excisable goods cleared on payment of duty by the manufacturer 

during the twelve months preceding the 1st day of October for 
which the licence is to be granted or renewed 
(a ) Quantity 

( b ) Amount of duty " . 
4 . The amendments hereby made shall apply to all licences renewed or issued 
on or after the date of this notification . 

[No. 10 - CER /56 .) 


New Delhi, the 8th September 1956 
S .R . O . 1980 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 37 of the Central 
Excises and Salt Act, 1944 ( I of 1944 ) , as in force in India and as applied to the 
State of Pondicherry , the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
Amendments in the Central Excise Rules , 1944, namely : 

In rule 97 of the said Rules 

( 1 ) for clause (i) of the frst proviso , the following clause shall be substituted , 
namely : 
" ( i) the goods are returned to the factory within one year of the date of 

payment of duty or within such further period or periods not exceed 
ing six months in the aggregate as the Collector may , on sufficient 

cause being shown , permit in any particular case ;" 
( 2 ) in clause (vii ) of the same proviso , for the word " rupees one hundred " , 
the words " rupees fifty " shall be substituted . 

(No. 12 -CER /56. ) 


S . R . O . 1981.. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 37 of the Central 
Excises and Salt Act , 1944 ( I of 1944 ) , as in force in India and as applied to the 
State of Pondicherry , the Central Government hereby makes the following tur 
thor amendment in the Central Excise Rules , 1914 , namely : 
To rule 49 of the said Rules, the following proviso shall be added , namely :--- 
" Provided further that the proper officer may not demand duty due on 

any goods claimed by the manufacturer as unft for consumption or 
for marketing , subject to such conditions as may be imposed by the 
Collector by order in writing." 

[No, 13 -CER /56. ] 
B . N . BANERJI, Joint Secy . 


1490 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1956 


[PART II - Sec. 3 


- 


- 


- 


I 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- - - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


CENTRAL EXCISES 

New Delhi, the 8th September 1956 
S . R . O . 1982 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 37 of the Central 
Excises and Salt Act , 1944 ( I of 1944 ) , as in force in India and as applied to the 
State of Pondicherry , the Central Government hereby makes the following fur 
ther amendment in the Central Excise Rules, 1944, namely : 

In rule 232 of the said Rules , after the words " as such officer," the following 
words shall be inserted , namely : 
" or in pursuance of such special or general directions as may be issued by 
the Central Board of Revenue, 

[No. 11 -CER / 56 . ] 
L . S . MARTHANDAM , Under Secy . 


ORDERS 


STAMPS 

New Delhi, the 28th August 1956 
S . R . O . 1983. In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 ( 2 of 1899 ) , the Central 
Government hereby remits the whole of the stamp duty chargeable under the 
vaid Act on the lease deed dated the 28th July , 1956 , executed by the High Com 
mission for the United Kingdom in India in respect of the premises comprising 
two flats at 38 , Sundar Nugar, New Delhi. 

[No. 14 / F .No. 8 / 12 / 56 - Stamps. ] 
New Delhi, the 31st August 1956 


S . R . O . 1984 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 ( 2 of 1899 ) , the Central Government 
hereby remits the stamp duty chargeable on the following documents executed or 
made by a banking company ( as defined in the Banking Companies Act , 1949 ) . 
in liquidation in the course of the liquidation proceedings in the States of Delhi, 
Ajmer and Coord , namely :-- 
Every transfer , nortgage, assignment, power of attorney , proxy paper, 

certificate , affidavit, bond or other proceedings , instrument or writing 
whatsoever before or under any order of the Court, and ( copies ) 
thereof. 

[ No. F . 15 / 9 / 53 - Stamps.] 
M . R . RAMACHANDRAN , Under Secy . 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 


INCOME- TAX 


New Delhi, the 23rd August 1956 


S . R . O , 1985 . — The following draft of certain further amendments in the Indian 
Income- tax Rules , 1922 , which the Central Board of Revenue proposes to make 
in exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 59 of the 
Indian Income - tax Act, 1922 ( 11 of 1922 ) , is published as required by sub 
section ( 4 ) of the said section , for the information of persons likely to be affected 
thereby ; and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consi 
deration on or after 31st October , 1956 . 


2 . Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person 
with respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by 
the said Board , 


PART II- SEC . 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


1491 


Draft Amendment 
In rule 43 - A of the said Rules , the following shall be substituted , namely : — 
" 43 - A . The return under section 20A shall be in the following form and 

shall, in the case of a company, be delivered by its Principal Officer 
to the Income- tax Officer having jurisdiction for the time being to 
assess the Company, and in other cases to the Income- tax Officer 
in whose jurisdiction the person responsible for paying interest, 

resides: 
Return under section 20A , of the Indian Income- tax Act 1922 for the 

year 1st April, 19 . . . . . . To 31st March , 19 . . . . . . 
Name of payer. 
Address of payer . 


Seriel 
No. 


Name of payec 


Address of 

payoe 


Date of pey 

ment 


Amount of interest 

or aggregate 

interest . 


1 . 


U 


U 


. . . . . . . . . . . IIII . . . . . , 


. . . , the Principal Officer of the Company hereby 
Certify that the above statement contains a complete list of persons to 
whom interest or aggregate interest exceeding Rs. 400 ( regardless of any interest 
paid to me . . . ... . . . . . ) was paid during the period 1st April, 19 . . . . . . . . to 31st 

the company 
March , 19 . . . . . . . . 
Dated . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 . . 

Signature ." 


[No. 58 . ] 
P . N . DAS GUPTA , Secy . 


CENTRAL EXCISES 
New Delhi, the 1st September 1956 


S . R . O . 1986 — In pursuance of sub - rule ( I ) of rulę 175 of the Central Excise Rules , 1944 , and 
the supersession of its notification No . 4 - Central Excises, dated the 13th May 1950 , the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby authorises the Central Excise Oficers specified in columns 2 and 3 of 
in schedule hereto annexed to issue and renew respectively the types of licences in respect of the 
excisable goods mentioned in the corresponding entries in column 1 thereof : 


SCHEDULE 


Licences 


Licensing Authority 


Reviewing Authority 


Any officer not below 

the rank of - 


Any officer not below 

the rank of 
1. Unmanufactured Products 
( 1) A curer who intends to curc in 

thc following year 
( a ) not less than one hundred A Superintendent , 

standard matnds : 
(5 ) less than one hundred stan - An Inspector. 

dard maunds 


An Inspector. 
An Inspector. 


TE - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


1492 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8, 1058 


(PART 1156 . 3 


3 


Superintendent. 


2 . A wholesale dealer or broker or A 

commission agent dealing in un 
manufactured products . 


A Superintendent. Provided 
that , where no change in 1 
cence fee is involved such a 
licence may be repewed by a 
officer not below the rank of 
an Inspector . 


An Assistan . Collector A Superintendent. 
A Superintendent A Superintendent. 
An Inspoctor An Inspector. 


3 The holder of a private bonded 
warehouse which houses — 
(a ) not less than two thousand 

standard maunds. 
(0 ) less than two thousand 

standard maunds, 
- 4 The holder of a curere private 

bonded storc - room . 
II. Manufactured products 
If the licence fee payable annually is - - 

( a ) rupecs one hundred 
( b ) not more than rupees flfty 

but more than rupees ten 

(c ) rupees ten or below 
III. A user of cxcisable goods without 

payment of duty for special indus 
trial purposes . 


The Collector. 
An Assistant Collec - 

tor . 
A Superintendent 
The Collector 


The Collector . 

An Assistant Collector . 
A Superintendent 
The Collector 


[No. CER 175 (I )/ 56 ] 
S . K . BHATTACHARJEE, Dy. Socy . 


INCOME- TAX 

New Delhi, the 27th August 1958 
S . R . O . 1987. In pursuance of sub - section (6 ) of section 5 of the Indian Income- tax Act, 1922 
(XI of 1922 ), the Central Board of Revenue hereby directs that the following further amendments 
shall be made in the Schedule appended to its notification S . R . O . I214 No. 44 - Income- tax ) 
dated the 1st July , 1952 , namely : 

In the said Schedule :- - 
(1) after serial No. 58 - A , the following items shall be inserted , gamely : 


58- B 


Appellate 
Employees of Income-tax Offi - Inspecting Aasig - Assistant com 
Foreign Diplo - cer Private Salary tant Commissioner missioner C Do. 
matic Missions Circle I , Delhi. DelhiRange II , Range New Delhi, 
Consulates & 

New Delhi. 
Trade Com 
missioner and 
all other em 
ployees of the 
Foreign Govts. 
having their 
offices in and 
residing in Delhi, 
Ajmer ,Rajasthan 
and Madhya 


Bharat . 


(11) In column 4 , against $ . No. 58 - A , for “ Inspecting Assistant Con niggioner, Range 1 , 
Delhi." substitute " Inspecting A9gistant Commissioner , Delhi Range II , New Delhi" . 


(No. 60 (55 /92 /54 - 11) 


PART II — Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OT INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1956 


1493 


CORRIGENDUM 
S . R .O . 1988. - In the notificatian of the Central Board of Revenue S . R . O . 1888 
published in part II, Section 3 of the Gazette of India , dated the 27th June 1955 
under column 6 

- for 
" The Commissioner of Income- tax , Ajmer , Rajasthan and Madhya Bharat" . 

read 
" The Commissioner of Income-tax , Delhi" . 

[No. 59 , ( 66 / 02 /84 -IT ). ] 
B. V . MUNDKUR, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 


New Delhi, the 


conferred by sub -claentral Government 


S . R . O . 1989. - In exercise of the power conferred by sub - clause (i ) of clause 5 
of the Cotton Textiles (Export Control) Order , 1949 , the Central Government 
hereby directs that the following amendment shall be made in Notification 
Wo. S .R . O . 1317 dated the 9th June 1956 , namely : 
" In the said notification , in para , 1 for the word , letters and figures " 1st June 
1058 " the word , letters and figures " 1st October 1956 " shall be substituted . 

[No. 46 ( 34 ) -CT ( A ) / 52-33. ] 
V . V . NENE, Under Sec . 


S . R .O . 1990 /ESS .COMM / IRON & STEEL - 2 ( c ) / AM (6 ) . — In exercise of the 
powers conferred by sub - clause ( c ) of clause 2 of the Iron and Steel ( Control) 
Order, 1956, as applied to the State of Pondicherry , the Central Government here . 
by directs that the following further amendment shall be made to the notification 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry No . S . R . O . 
1112 / ESS .COMM / IRON & STEEL - 2 ( c ), dated the 8th May , 1956, namely : 

In the Schedule annexed to the said notification , after the entries relating to 
* PEPSU , the following entries shall be inserted , namely : 


Pondicherry , Director of Industries, Pondicherry 

4 , 5 , 18 and 20 . 

[No. F . IS ( A ) - 4 ( 253 ) / 56 .] 
S . R . O . 1991 / ESS . COMM / IRON AND STEEL /AM ( 1 ) . - In exercise of powerg 
conferred by Section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act , 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) , ag 
applied to the State of Pondicher . y , the Central Government hereby directs that 
the Iron and Steel (Control ) Order , 1956 , and the notifications issued thereunder 
and specified in Column 2 of the table hereto annexed , shall also apply to the 
gaid State . 


TABLE 


Provisions of the Iron and Steel 

(Control) Order, 1956 , 
under which notifications were 

issued 


Number and date of the notifications 


1. Under Clauses 4 and 5 . 
1. Under Clause : 14 (2 ) and 26 (2) 


No. S .R . O . 1110 /ESS . COMM /IRON & STEEL 4 & 5 

dated the 8th May, 1956 . 
. No. S .R . O . IIII/ ESS . COMM /IRON & STEEL 

14 ( 2 ) & 26 ( 2 ), dated the 8th May , 1956 . 


1 494 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8, 1966 


[PART II Sec . 3 


3 . Under Clauses 15 ( 1) and 27 ( 1) . No. S. R . O . 1113 /ESS. COMM / IRON & STEEL 15 ( 1) 

and 27 ( 1 ), dated the 8th May , 1956 , ag annended by 
Notifications No , S . R . O . 1351/ESS . COMM /IRON 
& STEEL 15 ( I) and 27 ( 1 ) Am ( 1), dated ihe 9th 
June, 1956 and No . S . R . O . 1886 /ESS . COMM 
IRON & STEEL - I $ (1) & 27 ( 1)/ Am ( 2 ), dated the 
23rd August, 1956 , 


[No . F.IS ( A )-4 (304 ) /56.] 
P . S . V . RAGHAVAN , Under Secy . 


( Indian Standards Institution ) 


New Delhi, the 31st August 1956 
S . R . O . 1992 . In pursuance of sub - regulation ( 3 ) of regulation 7 of the Indian 
Standards Institution ( Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Standards 
Institution notifies that the marking fee per unit for Aluminium Sheets , Strips and 
Circles , Grade A and Grade B , details of which are given in the Schedule hereto 
annexed , has been determined and it shall come into force with effect from 10th 
September 1958 . 


THE SCHEDULE 


Product/ Class of Products 


No, and Title of Relevant 

Indian Standard 


Unit Marking fee 

per unit 


Aluminium Sheets , Strips and Circles 

- Grade A and Grade B . 


Rs. 2 . 


IS : 21- 1953 Specification for One ton 

Wrought Aluminium for Uten 
sils . 


D . V . KARMARKAR, 
Deputy Director (Marks) , 
Indian Standards Institution . 


[No. MDC / 11 (6 ). ] 
P . V . B . MENON , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF HEAVY INDUSTRY 

New Delhi, the 4th September 1956 
S . R . O . 1993 / ESS .COMM / IRON & STEEL - 2 ( c ) /AM ( 7 ) . - In exercise of the 
powers conferred by sub - clause ( c ) of clause ( 2 ) of the Iron and Steel ( Control) 
Order , 1950 , the Central Government hereby directs that the following further 
amendment shall be made to the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry No, S . R . O . 1112 /ESS . COMM / IRON & STEEL 
2 ( c ), dated the 8th May, 1956 , namely : 

In the Schedule annexed to the said notification after the entries relating to 
MADHYA BHARAT the following entries shall be inserted , namely : 


2 


3 


Manipur 


. 


.. 


. AB 
. Assistant Secretary (Co - ordination ) to 

Government of Manipur. 


the 


4 , 1 , 18 , and 20 . 


[No. F .IS ( A ) - 4 ( 253 ) /58 .] 
P . S . V . RAGHAYAN , Under Secy : 


PART II Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1956 


1495 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

New Delhi, the 30th August 1956 
S . R . O . 1994 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause 5 of Sugar (Control) Order , 
1955 , and in partial modification of the Norifications ofthc Government of India in the Ministry 
of Food and Agriculture No. S . R . O . S 1028 and 2322 dated the 29th March , and 13th July , 1954 
respectively , the Central Government is pleased to fix the Ex - factory price specified in Column 3 
of the Schedule annexed hereto for Indian Sugar Standard E - 27 grade of such crystal sugar pro 
duced in 1953 - 54 crushing season by the vacuum pan sugar factories specificd in the corresponding 
entry in Column I of the said schedule : 

Provided that clauşca (i) to ( iv ) of the proviso to the Notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture No, S . R . O . 1598 , dated the 18th October, 1951 
regarding price differentials for other grades of crystal sugar and for various grades of refined 
and crushed sugar gliall apply to this ſoufication : 

Provided further that the explanations I and II given in the said Notification shall also apply 
to this Notification : 


THE SCHEDULE 


Arca and Name of sugar factory 


Ex-factory price per mound of 

82 .2 /7 lbs, 


Wist UTTAR PRADESH 


Rs. As. Ps. 


. 
, 


. 


. 


. 


I. Baheri 
2 . Barcilly 

3 . Rosa 
BHOPAL 

I, Schore 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


28 0 
28 


0 

6 


. 


. 


. 


3 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


28 


2 


O 


[SV- 101(1)/ 53 - 54 .) 
T. C . PURI Jt. Secy . 


New Delhi, the 31st August 1956 
S . R . O . 1995 . In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Agricul 
tural Produce (Development & Warehousing Corporations ) , Act, 1956 ( 28 of 1966 ) , 
the Central Government hereby directs that with effect from the 1st day of Sep 
tember, 1956 , there shall be established the " National Co - operative Development 
and Warehousing Board " consisting of the following members namely : 
1. The Minister for Food & Agriculture in the Central 
Government. 

Ex -officio . 
2 . Secretary , Ministry of Food & Agriculture, Govern 

ment of India , 
3 . Joint Secretary in charge of Cooperation , Ministry of 

Food and Agriculture, Government of India . 
4 . Secretary , Government of India . Ministry of Finance 

(Department of Economic Affairs ) . 
5 . Financial Adviser to the Ministry of Food and Agricul 

ture , Government of India . 
6 . Secretary , Government of India , Ministry of Produc 

tion , 
7 . Additional Member (Commercial) Railway Board , 

Government of India . 
8 . Consulting Engineer, Road Development , Government 

of India , Ministry of Transport . 
9 . Joint Secretary, In charge of Plan Co - ordination , Plan 

ning Commission , Government of India . 


1496 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER , 1958 


Part 

1 


3 


10 . Joint Secretary , In charge of Small Scale Industries , 

Government of India , Ministry of Commerce and 
Industry , 

Ex -officio 
11 . Chairman , Forward Markets Commission . 
12 . Shri B . Venkatapplah , Deputy Governor , representing 

the Reserve Bank of India . 
19 . Shri B . P . Patel, Managing Director , representing the 

State Bank of India , 
14. President, All India Co-operative Union , New Delhi 
15 . Professor M . L . Dantwala , Professor of Agricultural 

Economics, Bombay School of Economics and Socio 

logy, Bombay . 
16 . Shri G . Parameswaran Pillal, Chairman , State Co - opera 

tive Advisory Council, Trivandrum , 
17. Shri R . G . Saraiya, Chairman , Bombay State Co -opera 

tive Bank , Bombay . 
18 . Professor D . G . Karve, Adylser, Reserve Bank of India , 

Bombay, 
10 . Shri P . S . Rajagopal Naldu , M .P ., President North 

Arcot District Co-operative Marketing and Supply 

Society, Vellore . 
20 , Shri K . V . Shankar Gowda, M .LA ., Honorary Secretary , 

Ryots Multi-purpose Co - operative Society Ltd ., 

Mandya (Mysore ) , 
21 . Shr! Tarapado Chaudhuri, Chairman , West Bengal Pro 

vincial Co- operative Bank , Calcutta . 
22 . Shri R . K . Patil , Civil Lines, Nagpur . 

[No. 1 .8 - 1 / 80 -Coop . I.] 
KRISHAN CHAND, Joint Sery . 


( 1. 0 . A . R .) 

New Delhi, the 17th August 1958 
S . R . O . 1996 . - In pursuance of Section 4 ( ix ) of the Indian Cotton Cess Act, 1929 
(XIV of 1923 ) , the Central Government are pleased to appoint Shri M . Mallarat 
Urs , Director of Agriculture, Government of Mysore , as the representative of the 
Mysore State on the Indian Central Cotton Committee, with effect from the 1st 
April , 1956 . 

[No. F .1-42 / 56 -Com . IL ) 
S . R . O . 1997. — In pursuance of Section 4 ( x ) of the Indian Cotton Ceag Act, 1923 
(XIV of 1923 ), the Central Government hereby re -nominate Shri C . Jagannatha 
Rao, Deputy Director of Agriculture (Research ), Kurnool, Andhra, as a member 
of the Indian Central Cotton Committee, for a period of one year with effect 
from the 1st April, 1956 . 

[No. 7 .1 -42-756 - Com . II .] 
New Delhi, the 20th August 1956 
S . R . O . 1998 . - In pursuance of the provisions of Sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 4 
of the Indian Oilseeds Committee Act , 1946 ( IX of 1946 ) , the State Government 
of Madhya Pradesh have nominated Shri Trimbak Dattatrya Deshmukh of Parwa, 
Tah . Kelapur, Distt . Yeotmal, to be the member of the Indian Central Oilseeds 
Committee, with effect from the 1st April, 1950, for a term of three years . 

[No, 6 -4 / 56 -Com . ) 


S . R . O 1999 . - In pursuance of the provisions of Sub - section ( e ) of Section 4 
of the India Oilseeds Committee Act, 1946 ( IX of 1948 ) , the State Government 
of Madhya Pradesh have re -nominated the Director of Agriculture , Madhya Pre 
desh , Nagpur, to be the member of the Indian Central Oilseeds Committee , with 
offect from the 1st April , 1956 for a terms of three years . 

[No. 6-3 / 88- Com , 1 ] 
MOKAND LALL , Undar Srey . 


PART IISec. 3 ] 


THL GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1950 


1497 


US 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 30th August 1956 
S . R .O . 2000 . It is hereby notifled for general information that in further modt 
Acation of this Ministry s notiAcation No. F . 4 - 1 / 54 -LSG , dated the 24th March , 
1954 and in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( e ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 3 of the Delhi Joint Water and Sewage Board Act, 1926 , ( 23 of 1926 ) , the 
Central Government have with effect from the 8th June, 1956 nominated Shr 
O . V . Ramadorai, Deputy Secretary , Ministry of Finance, as a member of the 
Quand il piace ji Shri S . K . Majumdar, Deputy Secretary , Ministry of Finance 
(Delhi State ) who has resigned . 

(No. F . 13 - 119 /56 - LSG . ) 
R . NARASIMHAN , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 
( Transport Wing ) 

PORTS 

New Delhi, the 30th August 1956 
S . R . O . 2001. - In pursuance of sub -section ( 9 ) of section 6 of the Bombay Port 
Trust Act, 1879 ( Bombay Act VI of 1879 ) , the Central Government hereby pub 
Hshes the following return received from the Secretary , the Millownerg Associa 
tion , Bombay namely : -- 

Return showing the name of the person elected by the Milloroners Association 
Bombay , in accordance with the provisions of section 13 ( 1 ) of the Bombay Port 
Trust Act, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Port of Bombay in tho 
temporary absence on leave of Shri Krishnaraj M . D . Thackersey . 


Date of 
election 


Name of tho person 

olccted 


13th August 1956 


Shri Vithal N . Chandavarkar 


[No. 8 - C . PI (85 ) / 56 .) 
D , A . R . WARRIAR , Under Secy , 


( Transport Wing) 

CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 30th August 1956 
S . R . O . 2002. In the notification of the Government of India , Ministry of Trans 
port No. S . R . O , 2136, dated the 1st October, 1955 , published at pages 1931 - 1942 of 
the Gazette of India , Part II, Section 3 , dated the 1st October 1555 at page 1931, 
for " and No. 4 - PII ( 1 ) /53 , dated the 29th September 1953 ” read " No. 4 - PII ( 1 ) / 53, 
dated the 29th September , 1953 and No. 3 -PII ( 144 ) / 54, dated the 23rd March 1955 " . 

[ No . 3- PII (137) / 54 .) 
A . V . SUBRAMANIA IYER , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF PRODUCTION 

New Delhi, the 30th August 1958 
S . R . O . 2003. — Ess . Oom / Salt ( 3 ) . In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 , ( 10 of 1955 ) the Central Government 
hereby makes the following further amendment in the Salt (Reserve Stocks) 
Order , 1955 , published with the notifications of the Government of Indix , tou 


1498 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


[Part II - SEC. 3 


- - = 


Ministry of Production No . SRO ( 1185 ) Ess Com / Salt ( 3) , dated the 27th May , 1955 
namely 
In clause 5 of the said Order, for the Agures and word " 2 ,000 tons" the 
Agures and word " 3 ,000 tons" shall be substituted . 

[ No. 14 /4 /53 -Salt.) 
NIZAMUDDIN AHMAD , Dy . Secy. 


MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND POWER 

New Delhi, the 30th August, 1956 
( Service Rules of the Chairman , Members , Secretary and Financial Adviser of 

the Damodar Valley Corporation ) 
S . R . O . 2004 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 59 of the Damodar 
Valley Corporation Act , 1948, ( XIV of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendment to the Rules published with the notifica 
tion of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Works, Mines and Power 
No. DW - III - A - 4 ( 7 ) Dam dated the 23rd April, 1948 , namely : – 

In rule 9 - A of the said Rules the following sentence shall be added at the 
end namely : 
" They may, however , be permitted to join the Fund and to contribute to it 

but shall not be eligible to the Corporation s contribution " . 


Explanatory Note 


The amendment has been introduced with a vicw to enabling retired Govern 
ment servants , who are in receipt of retired or superannuation pension or Contri 
butory Provident Fund benefits from Government and who are appointed as 
Chairman , Member , Secretary or Financial Adviser of the Damodar Valley Cor 
poration , to contribute to the Contributory Provident Fund of the Damodar Valley 
Corporation without being entitled to receive the Corporation s contribution . 

[ No. 43 ( 1 ) DW - IV / 56 . ) 
G . D . KSHETRAPAL, Dy . Secy . 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING AND SUPPLY 

(Central Bollers Board ) 
New Delhi, the 27th August 1958 


S . R . O . 2005 . - The following draft of a further amendment to the Indian Boiler 
Regulations, 1950 which the Central Bollers Board proposes to make in exercise 
of the power conferred by section 28 of the Indian Boilers Act, 1923 ( 5 of 1923 ) , 
is published as required by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 31 of the said Act, for 
the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby; and notice is hereby 
given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 22nd 
November, 1956. 


Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Bollers Board . Such objections or suggestions should be addressed to 
the Secretary Central Boilers Board , Ministry of Works, Housing & Supply , North 
Block , New Delhi. 


Draft Amendment 
In the said regulations - - 
For clause (a ) of regulation 125 , the following shall be substituted , namely : 
" 125 ( a ) Plates 5 / 8 inch and above in thickness shall be bevelled from 

both sides of each abutting edge but the bevel need not necessarily 
be the same on each side (see Figs. 1 and 2 ) . Plates less than 5 / 8 
inch in thickness may be bevelled from one side only of each abut 
ting edge ( see Figs. 3 and 4 ) . 


PART II — SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1958 


1499 


- The included angle of the bevel shall be not less than 60°, and the bevel 

ling may be any one of the forms shown in Figs. 1 - 4 ." 


600 


0 


miny 


A 


Fif . 1 


Fig . 2 . 


600 


fre * 60 ? 


Fig . 3 . 


Fig . 4 . 


[No. BL - 304 ( 18 ) /55. ] 


New Delhi, the 28th August 1956 
S . R . O . 2006 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 28 of the Indian 
Boilers Act 1923 ( 5 of 1923 ) , the Central Boilers Board hereby makes the follow 
ing further amendments in the Indian Boiler Regulations, 1950 , the same having 
been previously published as required by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 31 of the 
said Act, namely : 

In the said Regulations 

1. For the existing heading of Regulation 1, the following shall be substituted , 
namely : 

" Short title, extent, application and commencement” . 
2 . In Regulation 1, after sub - regulation ( 2 ) the following shall be inserted 

namely : 
“ ( 2A ) These Regulations shall apply to all boilers including those working 

on the principles of natural circulation , forced circulation and forced 

flow with no fixed steam and water line " . 
3 . In Regulation 281 the following paragraph shall be added at the end , 
namely : 
" In the case of boilers with no fixed steam and water line, the fitting of 

such accessories that are manifestly not needed or used , such as water 
guages, water columns and guage cocks, may not be insisted upon . 
In such cases , a duplicate means of maintaining circulation shall be 

provided " 
4 . In Regulation 376 after clause ( f) , the following clause shall be inserted 
namely : 
" ( g ) In the case of forced flow and forced circulation types of bollers, pro 

visions shall be made for checking that proper circulation is maintain - 

ed through all sections of the circuit by the flow of water " . 
5. In Regulation 390 ( a ), the following paragraph shall be added at the cnd, 
namely : 
" In the case of forced circulation and forred Aow hoilers which are not 

accessible to close visual inspection , the Inspector should , besides 
thorough examination . ensure by the flow of water that proper cir 
culation is maintained through all sections of the water circuits " . 

[No. S & PII / BL 304 (20 ) / 54. ] 


1500 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8, 1988 


[ Part II - S « c . % 


New Delhi, the 30th August, 1956 
S . R . O . 2007 . - -In exercise of the powers conferred by section 20 of the Indian 
Botlers Act , 1923 ( V of 1923) , the Central Bollers Board hereby makes the 
following further amendments in the Indian Boiler Regulations, 1950 , the same 
having been previously publlshed as required by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 31 

the said Act, namely : 
In the said Regulations 

1. For sub - clause ( 1) of clause ( b ) of regulation 16 , the following sub - clause . 
ball be substituted , namely : - 
" ( b ) (i ) Plates , Angles and Tees . - Wherever practicable, the rolled surface 

shall be retained on two opposite sides of the test piece . The ulti 

mate tensile stress and percentage of elognation on 8 in . gauge : 
length shall be determined on standard test piece A ( see Appendx 
B ) and for plates over 2 in . In thickness , standard test piece B shall 

be uscd " . 
2 . For the table below to Regulation 16 , the following table shall be substituted , 
namely : 


Rend 
Bend 


Test 


Description 


Ultimate 
tengilc Minimum Elongation * 
stress 

per cent 
Tons/ - 
sq . in . 

Test piece A Test Piece Bf 
8 in . gauge length . 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


Test 
picce 

BI 


Radius of bend 
T = Thickncas 

or diameter 


ates for shells, butt 26 - 36 
straps, gussets and 
stays 


23 for 26 - 30 
tons/ eq . in , 
20 for 28 - 32 
tons/ sq . in . 
20 for 30 - 36 
tons /sq . in , 


21 for 26 - 30 
tons /sq . in . 
18 for 28 -32 
tons / sq . in . 
18 for 30 - 36 
tons/ sq . in . 


IT for 26 -30 
tons/ sq . in , 
It T for 28- 32 
tons) sq. in , 
I T for 30 - 36 
tons/sq . in . 


Plates for flanging, and 24 - 32 

for furnaces. 


23 for 24 - 30 tons 21 for 24 -30 tons 
/ sq . in 

/ s9 . in . 
20 for 28 -32 18 for 28 -32 
tons/aq . in , tons/sq . in . 


IT for 24 - 30 
tong /sq . in . 

it T for 28 - 32 
tons sq. in . 


Plates for 

welding . 


forge- 24 -30 


23 for 24 - 30 tons 21 
/sq . in . 


IT for 24 - 30 
tous/ sq . in , 


Sections . 


. 


. 


26 - 30 

or 
28 - 33 


23 for 26 - 30 
t ons/ sq . in , 
20 for 28 - 33 
tons/sq . in , 


IT for 26 - 30 

tons/ eq . in . " 
IT for 28 -33 
tonB/ sq . in , 


Bars for bar stays 


. 


26 - 36 


1 


T . 


25 for 26 - 30 
tons/sq . in . 
22 for 30 -36 
tons/sq . in , 


30 for 
26 - 30 
tons / 
sq . in . 
27 for 
30 - 36 
tons/ 
sq . in . 


* For material under 3/8 inch in thickness reduce minimum percentage alongation 
valac by 3 . 

Macoined ip the case of plates. 


Pay 


Sec . 31 


T HE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1958 


I OK 


LT 


Bend Teet 


Description 


Mialmum Elongation * 
Ultimate 

per cent 
tensilc 
stress 

Tons/ 
sq . in . Tat picce A 

Tear Piece 
8 in gauge length . B7 


Test Radius of bend 
piece BI T -- Thickness 

or diameter 


- 


- . - - - - - - - 

.. 


- - 
25 


- - - -- 

30 


bure for screwed stays 


T 


24 - 28 

or 
26 -33 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


Ban for rivets . 


. 


24 - 28 


... 


25 


25 


30 


or 


26 - 30 


- 


- 


3. For clause (c ) of the regulation 19 , the following clause shall be substi 
tuted namely : - - 
" ( c ) For cold bend tests the test piece shall withstand , without fracture , 

being doubled over until the internal radius is equal to that shown 
in table under regulation 16 and the limbs are parallel." 


4 . For regulation 23, the following regulation shall be substituted , namely : - 
" 23 - Branding : - Every plate and bar shall be clearly and distinctly marked 

by the maker in two places with the number of identification marks 
by which they can be traced to the charge from which the material 
was made . " 


5 . For regulation 24 , the following regulation shall be substituted , namely : 
( 24 - Detacing of rejected material. - In the event of the material failing in 

any case to withstand the prescribed tests , the identification mark of 
the Inspecting Officer which has been stamped on the material, shall 
be defaced by punch marks extending beyond . the identification 
mark in the form of a cross , thus denoting that the material has 

to failed " . 
6 . For sub - clause ( iv ) of clause ( d ) of regulation 36, the following sub 
clause shall be substituted , namely : - - 
" ( iv ) Length — The length of the tubes shall be not less than the nominal 

length , but may exceed it by the amount given below : - - 
Up to and including 30 ft.. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 / 8 in . 
Over 30 ft. 

.. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . 1 /4 in ." 
7. In regulation 53 — 

( 1) for sub - clause (iii ) of clause (c ) the following sub - clause shall be 
substituted , namely : -- 
" ( iii) Length - The Length of the tubes shall be not less than the nominal 

length , but may exceed it by the amount given below : 
Up to and including 30 ft.. . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 / 8 in . 
Over 30 ft . 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 / 4 in ." 
4. In clause (a ) of regulation 54 — 
( 1 ) for the expression " following requirements " , the expression " require . 

ments prescribed in clause ( a ) of regulation 49 " shall be substituted ; 
( 11 ) the table shall be omitted . 


percentage 


* For material under 3 /8 inch in thickness reduce minimum 
legation value by 3. 

† Machlaed in the case of plates . 


1502 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


[PART II — SEC . 3 


9. For the heading above regulation 57 , the following heading shall be 
substituted , namely : 
" ELECTRIC - RESISTANCEWELDED STEEL BOILER AND SUPER 

HEATER TUBES FOR DESIGN STEAM TEMPERATURES NOT 
EXCEEDING 850°F ( 454°C ) " . 


10 . In clause ( c ) of regulation 58 
( i) for the 3rd and 4th items in the Table, the following items shall be 

subsliiuiea, lamely : 
" Phosphorous, max , per cent 

0 .05 

0 : 05 
Sulphur, max . per cent 

0 : 05 

0 : 05 " ; 
( ii ) after the Table , the following shall be inserted , namely : -- 
" Where the temperature is below 750°F ( 390°C ) , either rimming or 

killed steel may be used . If Timming steel is used , the strips 
shall be rolled in single widths and not slit longitudinally . 


The steel used for design steam temperature above 750°F (390°C ) but not 
exceeding 850 F (451" C ) shall be of the fully killed type . The question of 
the high temperature creep strength of the material shall be the subject of 
agreement between the manufacturer and the Inspecting Authority ." 

( lii ) after clause ( c ) , the following clauses shall be inserted, namely : -- - 
" ( d ) Thickness - The thickness of each tube shall conform to the speci 

fied thickness excluding the weld within the limits of plus 10 and 

minus 5 per cent. 
( e ) Diameter _ The outside diameter of each tube measured at any 

position shall conform to the specified outside diameter within the 

Limits of plus ( and minus 1 per cent. 
( f ) Length — The length of each tube shall be not less than the nominal 
length , but may cxceed it by the following amounts : 

Nominal Tolerane 
length 


ft . 


in . 


Up to and including 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


1 /8 


Over . 


30 


1/ 4 


* 11. For regulation 60 , the following regulation shall be substituted , namely : - - 
" 60 . Tensile Properties - The tubes shall conform to the requirements as 

to tensile properties prescribed in Table below : - - 


Tensile Requirements 


Tensile strength , min . per sq . in . . 

. . . 
Yield point, min . . 
Elongation in 2 in , min . per cent 
l or longitudinal strip tests & reduction for each 1/ 32 in . 
decrease in wall thickness below 5 / 16 in . from the basic min . 
elongation of the following percentage . 


Type A 
47 ,000 lbs. 
26 ,000 lbs . 

35 


Type C 
60 ,000 lbg, 
37 ,000 lbs. 

30 


1 . 75 


1 : 50 


12 . For regulation 73 , the following regulation shall be substituted , namely : 

" 73 . Scope The steel castings shall be of the following grades : 


Gradc 


ULTIMATE TEN 

SILE STRESS 
Tons/sq . in . min . 


PART II - SEC , 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1966 


1503 


13. For regulation 74 , the following regulation shall be substituted , namely : - - 
" 74 . (a ) Process of manufacture — Steel for castings shall be made by the 

Open Hearth or an Electric Process, acid or basic . 

(b ) Chemical Analysis — The stoel shall contain : 
- - - - - - 
Element 

Grade A Grade B Grade C 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


Per cent 
Max . 


Per cent 
Max , 


Per cent 
Max . 


Carbun . . 
Silicon . 


. 


. 


Manganese 


0 25 
0 . 60 
I 00 
0 : 06 
0 .06 


0 . 35 
0 . 60 
1 . 00 
0 . 06 
0 . 06 


0 . 45 
0 .60 
1 . 00 
0 . 00 
0 . 06 


Sulphur . 
Phosphorus 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


. - 


- - 


The manufacturer shall supply a certificate if analysis of each melt when 
requested . 

( c ) Heat Treatment- All castings shall be supplied in the heat 
treated condition . The heat treatment shall consist of annealing , 
annealing and normalising , normalizing , normalizing and tempering , 
or hardening and tempering, either at the discretion of the manu 
facturer or the Inspecting Officer and shall be carried out at suitable 
temperatures to give the mechanical properties specified in regula 
tion 77 . 
( d ) Fettling and Dressing - All castings shall be properly fettled and 
dressed and all surfaces shall be satisfactorily cleaned for inspection 
purposes . 
( e ) Freedom trom Defects - All castings shall be free from injurious 
defects . In the event of any casting proving defective in the course 
of preparation , machining or erection , such casting may be rejected 

notwithstanding any previous certification of satisfactory testing ." 
14. For regulation 76 , the following regulation shall be substituted , namely : 


" 76. Number of tests . Provision of test samples. — Tensile and bend test 
pieces shall be prepared from test samples representative of each melt or each 
heat- treatment batch as follows : 
( a ) The test samples shall be cast attached to or separate from the casting 

as agreed between the manufacturer and the Inspecting Officer . The 
agreement for attached test samples shall include the precise location 
and method of attachment. If the Inspecting Officer does not make 
such an agreement with the manufacturer, the decision as to the 
manner of providing test samples shall rest with the manufacturer . 
The discretion of the manufacturer shall not , however , apply to the 
testing of castings made from more than one melt as indicated in 

clause ( d ) below . 
( b ) 11 the test samples arc attached to the castings , at least one tensile 

test and , when required one bend test , shall be made from each 
melt. Such test samples shall not be detached from the castings 
until heat - treatment of the castings has been completed and they 
have been stamped by the Inspecting Officer . Test samples shall be 
stamped by the Inspecting Officer after the heat treatment process . 


( c ) It the test samples are cast separately , they shall be provided to the 

extent of 2 per cent of the number of castings from each melt , but 
in no case shall there be less than 2 samples per melt , except by 
agreement between the manufacturer and the Inspecting Officer , 
The test samples shall be cast in moulds of the same material as is 
used for the castings and shall be made at the same time as the 
castings, and run from the same ladle . The samples shall be stamped 
by the inspecting officer so as to identify the castings to which they 
relate . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8, 1958 


[PART II SEC . 3 


( d ) When a casting is made from more than one melt , at least four 

tensile tests and , where required , four bonds tests , shall be made 
from test samples situated as far apart as possible on the casting 
Some of the test samples shall be taken from as near the top and 

others from near the bottom of the casting as is practicable . 
( e ) Test samples shall be heat - treated with the castings they represent." 
15 . For regulation 77 , the following regulation shall be substituted , namely : 
" 77 . ( a ) Tensile tests — The mechanical properties obtained from the test 

pieces selected and prepared as specified in regulation 76 shall con 
ply with the requirements of the following table : 


- - - - 


- - 


- - 


Grade 


BC 


35 
17 . 5 


15 


Ultimate tensile stress tons/ sq . in not less than . 
Yield streys, or 0 . 8 % proof stress, tons/sq . in . not less than . 
Elongation , per cent not less than . . . . . 

- - 
NOTE : - Should a tensile test piece break outside the middle half of its gauge 

length , the test may , at the manufacturer s option , be discarded and 
another representative test made. 

( b ) The tensile test shall be carried out on test pieces conforming 
to the dimensions of Standard test piece C , or to those of one or 

the subsidiary round test pieces as shown in Appendix B ." 
16 . For regulation 78, the following regulation shall be substituted ,namely : 
" 78 . Bend tests - - Cold bend tests shall be made upon test pieces having 

rectangular section of one inch wide by 3 / 4 inch thick . The test 
pieces shall be machined and the edges rounded to a radius of 1 / 16 

inch . The test pieces shall be bent over the thinner section . 
Bend tests may be made by pressure or by blows, and the test pieces shall 
without fracture withstand being bent round a former having a radius of 1 
inch through an angle not less than that given in the following table : 


Grade of Casting 


Angle of Bend 

minimum 


120 
90° 


No test" 


17 . For regulation 79 , the following regulation shall be substituted , namely : 
479 . ( a ) Additional tests before rejection - Should any of the original test 

pieces fail to pass the mechanical tests , two further samples which 
represent the same casting or castings shall be selected and tested 
in the same manner . The manufacturer shall have the right, if he 
so desires, to re -heat - treat the castings before the two further 
samples are selected : 

Should the two further tests satisfy the requirement of this 
standard , castings , represented by them shall be accepted . Should 
either of the re - tests fail, the castings represented shall be liable to 
rejection . 
( b ) Hardness test after heat treatment. The Inspecting Officer may 
call for hardness testing of the heat- treated castings. 
( c ) Non -destructive tests . - - The Inspecting Officer may call for radio 
graphic examination or other non - destructive testing of the castings, 

Castings found to be unsound may be treated in accordance with 
regulation 75 . If the welding repairs are sanctioned by the Inspecting 
Officer , they shall be carried out in accordance with regulation 80. " 


PART 11 - SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1956 


1905 


- 


- 


- 


18 . For regulation 80 , the following regulation shall be substituted , namely : 
" 80 . Procedure for Welding. — In order to maintain a high standard of 

workmanship in the practice of arc - welding to steel castings, tho 
following general principles should be followed, but the precise 

technique will of necessity vary according to the circumstances . 
Surface condition . The surfaces of the steel it is intended to weld should 
be cleaned and freed from all foreign matter , otherwise poor penetration and 
unsound weld metal may result . 


The preparation for the welding of cracks should be of the U or V types . 
When the latter is used , the included angle should be not less than 70° . Where 
cracks extend through the section of the casting , the choice between single and 
double preparation , U or V , will be governed by ( i ) the thickness of the casting: 
( 11) the location of the defect. In double preparation , U or V , the root of the 
U or V should be sufficiently open to ensure complete penetration , 

Electrades. — The electrodes shall comply with regulations 94 to 98 for Grade 
A castings . Electrodes for Grades B and Ç castings should be agreed between 
the manufacturer and the Inspecting Omicer . 

The electrode manufacturer s recommendations for the use of the electrode 
should be strictly followed . 

Pre -heating . - Variations in composition , mass design , and the extent of 
welding required make it impossible to lay down specific rules to establish 
conditions under which pre - heating should be applied . 

When after consideration of each casting in the light of the above variables it 
is deemed necessary to pre -heat, such pre -heating should be carried out at a 
temperature of 150 - 300°C ( 302 - 572°F ) . 

Stress -ralieving treatment. When the welding is carried out after the casting 
has received its normal heat treatment, a further heat treatmentmay be considered 
necessary . This treatment need be applied only in cases where welding has 
been such as to induce either internal stresses which would be detrimental to 
the casting, or locally hardened areas which would cause difficulty in machining. 
Where this further heat treatment is applied , the casting, where possible , should 
not be allowed to go cold after welding , but should be charged into a warm 
furnace and re -heated to a suitable tempering temperature which in general 
should be not less than 550°C ( 1022°F ) . 

When considering the advisability of applying this further treatment, i to 
effect on the physical properties of the castings should be borne in mind. If 
the treatment, or the welding itself, is such that the physical properties will be 
adversely affected , the full heat treatment required to produce satisfactory 
qualities should be substituted ." 


19. For regulation 99, the following regulation shall be substituted , namely :-- - 
" 99 . Preparation of Plates. The edges of all plates and butt straps shall 

be machined or flame- cut by machine and the caulking edges sball 
be bevelled to an angle not sharper than 70 degrees to the plane 

of the plate and between 70 and 80 degrees wherever practicable . 
Plates which are to be Aame -cut by machine without heat treatment or sub 
sequent grinding or machining shall not have a carbon content higher than 0 . 26 
percent. 

Where the carboni content exceeds 0 .26 per cent, hcat treatment, grinding 
or machining shall be carried out. 

The deges of all plates shall have a smooth finish ." 
20 . In regulation 104 

(i) for clauses ( a ), (b ) and ( c ), the following clause shall bc substituted , 
namely : 
( a ) The calculated efficiencies of circumterential joints , based on the 

thickness of plate determined by Equation 1 , shall be not less than 
38 per cent. for joints connecting end plates with cylindrical shelle , 
or 42 per cent. for intermediate joints . In no case , however , shall 
the efficiency of an intermediate joint be less than 50 per cent. of 
that of the longitudinal joints . Where the shell plate thickness 
exceeds 11 / 16 in ., the intermediate circumferential joints shall be 
double riveted ," ; 


1506 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1956 


[ PART II - SEC . 3 


(2 ) Clause (d ) shall be relettered as clause (b ) . 

21. In clause ( a ) of regulation 113, for the sentence “ Alternatively , the end 
plates shall be built up by butt -welding - two picces ” , the sentence " Alterna 
tively , the end plates may be built up from two pieces by riveting or by fusion 
butt- welding . shall be substituted . 


22. For clause (a ) of regulation 126 , the following clause shall be substituted , 
namely : 

( a ) The furnace crown shall be made from one plate and the seam con 

necting it to the furnace shall not fall in line with any circumferen 

tial seam of the boiler shell," 
23 . For clause (b ) of regulation 127, the following clause shall be substituted , 
namely : 


( b ) " Cross tubes shall not exceed 12 in . in internal diameter . The mini 

mum thickness shall be 5 / 16 in ." 
24. To clause (1 ) of regulation 135 , the following pargaraph shall be added , 
namely : 


" Alternatively stays may be screwed through the shell and fire box plates 

and the projecting ends shall be substantially fillet - - welded in an 
approved manner . The projection of the end of the stay from the 
surface of the plate shall be not less than one quarter of the dia 
moter of the stay but in no case less than 1 / 4 in . The full end of 

the stay shall be visible on completion of the welding ." 
25 . For regulation 145 , the following regulation shall be substituted , namely : 
" 145 . Steel and Wrought Iron Tubes. Both plain and stay smoke tubes 

may be made either of wrought iron or steel and may be electric 

resistance welded , lapwelded or weldless ." 
26 , Regulation 146 shall be lettered as clause ( b ) of that regulation , und 
before that clause as so lettered , the following clause shall be inserted , Damely 

( a ) Plajn tubes shall be expanded at both ends . The expanding shall be 

parallel through -out the full thickness of the tube plate. Plain tubes 

may also be bell-mouthed , beaded , or welded at the gas inlet end ," 
27. Regulationi 147 shall be lettered as clause ( a ) of that regulation and after 
the clause as so lettered , the following clause shall be added , namely : 

" ( b ) Stay tubes may be attached hy welding in which case they shall not 

be adjacent within the same tube nest except in local areas, where not 
more than two adjacent stay tubes may be attached by welding. The 
form of attachment shall be such that there is a mechanical hold in 
addition to the welding, as shown in Figure 9A . On completion of 
welding the stay tubes shall be ightly re - expanded ." 


plate grooved 


in min . Vi 
fillet weld 


Tube expanded and 
belled prior to welding . 


Fic 9h . Typical example of welded stay tube 


PART IS - SEC , 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1956 


1507 


28 . For clause ( a ) of regulation 151 , the following clause shall be substituted , 
namely : 

( a ) All tubes which are subject to internal pressure of water or steam 

shall be cold drawn or hot Anished seamless or electric - resistance -welded 
in accordance with regulations 36 to 63. Except as provided for in 

clause ( b ) below , they shall be without joint." 
29 . In regulation 156 , for the words , " The thickness of the forged stand pipes 
shall comply with table below " , the words " Solid forged standpipes shall havo 
a minimum thickness of flange and of body in accordance with the table below " 
shall be substituted . 

30 . In clause (b ) of regulation 160 , after the words " attached to " , the words 
" shells and " shali be inserted . 

31. In clause ( a ) of regulation 169 , for the second sentence , the following 
sentence shall be substituted namely :- - 

" The strength of the net section of compensating ring and also of the rivets 

securing them to the shell, compared with that part of the shell cut 

out , shall not be less than the efficiency of the longitudinal seam ." 
32 . Regulation 170 shall be lettered as clause ( a ) of that regulation and after 
the clause as so lettered , the following clause shall be added , namely : 

" (b ) Riyoted construction . Where frames, pads or branches are secured 

by riveting on shells for Axing of mountings or other pressure parts , 
the sectional area to be compensated shall be determined as follows: - - 
( See Fix . 25A ) . 

COF STAMPIOR BAHCH . 

THICKNESS DETERMINED 
* EQUA710W VSINO C . 1 . 75 

J : 65 

WIE BOTT WEISE 
BoelB H & J 95 . 

WHY STAKLESLUSH THICKNESS REQUIED 
1ң01ikТАМ 

TOUTSTAND PURWAL LOADS ON BRANCH 
41N 
THICKUESSASMALL 
RETAIL BY ROLAND 
075-75 TBA and 


VIRU 
Opening in T3 + 3in : - 

Sher 
NOTE: AREA Y V TO DINOT 1655 THAN AREA * 

Fig . 25A. Compensation for Riveted Standpipes 
Area To Be Compensated And Corresponding Area Allowable For Compensation . 

( 1) The cross- sectional area of the frame or pad excluding rivet holes , or in 
the case of a branch the cross - sectional area of the wall of the branch and flange, 
excluding rivet holes , minus the sectional area of a branch of the same hore 
having a thickness calculated by equation 1 for the same design pressure, using 
C - 2 . 75 , J = 65 when butt welded , and J = 95 when seamless , plus the thickness 
required to withstand external loads. The area shall be measured within the 
Ilmit specified in Figure 25 - A . 

Due allowance shall be made in case where the material used for the branch 
and /or compensating ring differs from that of the plate to which it is attached . 

(ii) The area obtained by multiplying the difference between the actual shell 
thickness and the calculated thickness , by a length 

2 ( 3 in Ts- d ) 
Ts = Thick - ness of shell plale in inches. 

d = diameter of rivet hole in inches. 
In cases where the sum of (1 ) and ( ii ) is less than the sectional area to be 
compensated , a compensating plate shall be fitted having to total net cross sec 
tional area equal to the amount of the deficit." 

33 . In regulation 190 , for the figure " 2. 75 /"! the figure " 2 .75 " shall be 
substituted 


1508 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1956 


[PART II -- Sec. 3: 


* 34 . After cause (b ) of regulation 197 , the following clause shall be added , 
namely : 
" ( c ) The thickness of flat crown plates shall in no case be less than the 

thickness of the cylindrical portion to which it is attached .” 
35 . In regulation 204 , after the word " seamless" the words " or electric - resis 
tance- welded " shall be inserted . 
36. In regulation 240 — 

(i) in sub - clause ( ii ) of the clause ( b ) the word " British " shall be omitted 
( it ) In the table below clause ( d ) , for the three entries under the second 

column , the following entries shall be substituted , namely : -- 
“ 3 / 8 

1 / 2 

3 / 4 " 
37. After regulation 243 , the following heading shall be inserted , namely : 

" TUBES , HEADERS, PIPES AND STEEL CASTINGS" 
38 . For clause ( a ) of rcgulation 244 , the following clause shall be substituted , 
namely : - - 
" ( a ) Tubes shall be of cold drawn weldless or hot finished weldless or 

electric -resistance -welded steel and shall comply with regulation 36 to 

63." 
39 . In regulation 250 , after the word " chipping" the words " or flame cutting" 
shall be added . 
40. For regulation 255, the following regulation shall be substituted , namely : 
" 255 POSITION OF TUBE HOLES :- Tube holes may be machined through 

welded seams after the seams have bech radiographed and stress 
relieved . The efficiency of the welded seam (ratio of stress Col. B to 
stress Col. A , Table under regulation 271 ) shall be taken into account 
when determining the efficiency of ligaments in the direction of the 
weld ( sce regulation 215 ) exçept where the distance from the edge of 
the hole to the edge of the weld is greater than 1 / in , The edge of 
the weld shall be considered to be the edge of the weld groove as 

machined in the plate prior to welding ." 
41 . In regulation 263 , for the expression " 30 ft . 1b " , the expression " 20 ft. 1b ." 
shall be substituted . 
42 . In regulation 279 , 
(1) for clause ( a ), (b ) and ( c) , the following clause shall be substituted , 

namely : - - 
" 279 (a ) Welded construction . — Where stand -pipes are secured by weld 

ing , adequate compensation for the hole cut for the standpipe shall 
be provided . Compensation shall be considered adequate when the 

sectional area X to be compensated is less than the compensating 
area Y ( see Fif, 25B ) . 

LofSTAND PINE OA BLANCA . 
more on UICKNESS DEIFIMEDAY EQUATINU ) IAM 

7 021 -76 , Jo 65 

WHEN BUTT WEDID , 93 - 95 
Bala Brail 

WHEN SEAMLESS AUSTHCKNESS EQUIRED 
1a + HOT CREATER THAN TO WITHSTAND NENAL LOADS ON BRANCH 
THICHESS SWELL 
DETET KUNED BY 

CQUATION WUSING 
- T275 + 

$ 1795 


HAT 
. 


TINING A SHEILAT IN 
POTE: MELY TO BE NOTI155 THIN APEA XE 

Fig . 25 B Compensation for welded standpipes 
Area to be compensated end corresponding arca ellowable for compansation 


PART II - SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1956 


1509 


The sectional area X shall be calculated as follows:- - 

The product of the outside diameter of the standpipe ( calculated by equation 
72 ) and the thickness of an equivalent drum shell ( see note at the end of the 
clause ) . 

The compensation Area Y shall be measured in plane through the axis of the 
standpipe parallel to the longitudinal axis of the drum and shall be calculated as 
follows: 

The sectional area of the standpipe minus the sectional area of a standpipe 
of the same bore having a thickness calculated by equation 72 for the same design 
pressure and temperaturę. Area Y shall be measured upto a point 4 in . from the 
outer surface of the drum shell. 

Plus the cross sectional area of the welding fillets external to the drum ghell, 

Plus the area obtained by multiplying the difference between the actual drum 
shell thickness and the thickness of an equivalent seamless unpierced drum shell 
by a longth ( Ts 7. 3 ) in . Where Ts is the thickness of the drum shell plate In 
inches (see Fig . 25B ) . 

Where the material of the standpipe has an ultimate tensile stress lower than 
that of the drum shell, the compensating sectional area of the standpipe shall be 
multiolled by the ratio : 

Ultimate tensile stress of the standpipe 

Ultimate: tensile stress of drum shell 
In cases where Y is less than X , a compensating plate shall be fitted to the 
drum shell at the standpipe and secured by Alet welds ( sce Fig . 25 B ) . 

Note .-- An equivalent drum shell shall mean a seamless drum shell of similar 
material unpierced by tube holes and designed for the same conditions of pres 
sure and temperature as the drum shell in question ." 

( li ) Clause ( d ) shall be lettered as clause (b ) . 
43. In regulation 280 , the following shall be substituted , namely : 
" 280 . ATTACHMENT OF STAND BLOCKS AND BRANCH PIPES BY 

WEJ,DING .- - 
( a ) Typical methods of attachment are shown in Figures 

24A , 24B , 24C , 24D , 26A , 26B , 260 , 260 , 26E , 27A and 27B . 
All weld dimensions shown shall be regarded as minimum dimensions, those 
defining the grooves refer to the actual preparation for welding . 

tn - Specified thickness of standpipe or branch pipe. 
ts - Specified thickness of drum or header shell at standpipe or branch 

connection . 
tc - Actual thickness of ccmpensating ring . 

The application of certain of the constructions illustrated may be limited by 
consideration of design pressure design temperature or size ( in combination ) 
and although certain dimensions are given , each case must be consideded on its 
merits . 

Other methods may be adopted subject to agreement between the Inspecting 
authority and manufacturer . 

(b ) Electrodes shall comply with the requirements of Regulations 94 to 98 
( Covered Electrodes for Metal Arc Welding ) . 

( c ) Not less than two runs or metal shall be deposited at each weld . Each 
run of weld metal shall be thoroughly cleaned and freed from slag before the next 
run is deposited , 

Where one side of a double V weld has been completed , the under surface of 
the original run of metal shall be removed by grinding , chipping or machining to 
glve a clean metallic surface before welding on the other side 1s commenced . 

( d ) The Anal finish of the weld shall be guch that the change of section from 
drum to standpipe, or from fange to standpipe is gradual and free from sharp 
notches . After completion of welding ( except in the case of seal welds ) the drum 
shall be stress - relleved by heat treatment." 


ISIO 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


[ PART II — Sec . 3 


Bore 


Fig . 24 A Woded in standpipe or tranch 
For stond pipes and branches up to and including 4 in , bore. 


20 deg.min 


This line should amply clear 
flange of branch -pipo or any 
other obstruction in order 
to give convenient about 
motor welding - 


Boro 


m . mox . l AE, of 1 in . 
( whichever is the less ) 

min . tn 


h 


| 3thcl .e.plain flirt 

when hepata ) 


45 Ain 

radmin 


* * 


Koin 


40 de 9.approx. 


Fig. 248W 


a 


or branch for morepe or branches with one 
Wesluiting in der , 


PART II — Sec, 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8, 1958 


1511 


AU 


20 deg approx 


of any 


20 


This line should amply clear 
flange of branch pipe or any 
other obstruction in order 
to give convenient 
access for welding 


Bore 


5/16 in .min 


Yain . radmin 


in . 


40 deg. approx . 


Fig . 24€ Welded -In standpipe or branch with . compensating ring for standpipes 

or branches up to and including 4 in . bore 


1912 . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1956 


[PART II — SEC . 3 


20 de min . 


This line should amply clear 
Flanges of branch -pipes or any 
other obstruction in order to 
give convenient access 
for welding 


Bore 


h . mor1ty of lysin 
(whichever is the less . ) 

minuta 


nchlic plain fillet 


to when h = 472 ) 


. 
חומו 


. 


camere 


516 in min 


40 de 9. approx 


Ping 240 


Weldedin standpipe, or branch with compensaring ring for standpipes 

and branches up to and including 4 in . bore . 


PART II – Szc , 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1956 


1513 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


Bore of branch not greater than half intier 
radius of header, up to a maximum or Jinches 

Bore 


Matn butnot 
less than icin 


I tn but not 


V 


alin rad mit 


less than ypin 


VOLE 


Expanded on scrowd 
parallel pipe thread 
with vanishing threads, or taper pipe 

y thread 
Thickness of header 
not less than lin . 


Fi . 26A . Header brancher Welding accesortsline from outside only 


Maximum design pressure , 450 lb / s , in 

Maximum design temperatury, 550F 
Applicable to the circular section of headers with above limiting size of branch 

or flat sides of headers without limiton sive or branch 
NOTE . This type of weld u not recommended where the wall of the header 
Komible for welding 


IS14 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8, 1958 


[PART II - Sec . 8 


Parallel pipe thread 
with vanishing threada , 
or taper pipe threads . 


„ Sealweld 


Inside 


Thread length i 


Note : 
where there is insufficient 

thickness (to provide the 
minimum length of thread) . boss ,builu 
of weld metal,may be added 


Nominal bort 

of pibe 


Toallergen op 

thread 
(Minimum ) 

( T ) 


1 


and 144 


X and below 


Pg. 268 , Screwed and seal waldad connection 


PART II - Stc. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1956 


1515 


20 Deg . min . 


This line should amply clear : 
flange of branch pipcorony 
other obstruction in order 
to give convenient 
access for welding 


Bore 


Jin , radmin 


40 deq. approx . 


Fig. 26c. Welded-In standpipe or branch with compensating ring 


· 1516 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8, 1958 


[PART II - Sec . ) 


20 deg.min . 


This line should amply clear 
flange of branch pipe or any 
other obstruction in order 
to give convenient 
access for welding 


Bore 


Vinrad min 


Vin . 


40 deg approx 


fig u6D Welded. in standpipe or branch 


PART II — Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1956 


1517 


20 deg.min . 


Bore 


This line should amply clear 
farge of branch - pipe or any 
other obstruction in order 
to give convenient access 
forwelding 


a 


Ain . 
radmin 


in max . 


ydin . 
Fig . 26 E . Waldled -in standpine or branch 
This lyme af weld is not recommended where the inside of hunday or down is 

acessible for wdding . 


1918 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


[ PART II —— Sec . 3 


Amount of branch body removed by machiningimust be 
Suflicient to remove bottom portion of weld 


Branch 


la 


Finished bore _ 
of branch . 


- Initial borc 

of branch - 


Favoin 


Vin . 


int 


1/4 in rad 


Pilot hole 
Niin he oder 


BETTET 


Part tony tudinar 
section through 
header & branch 


Header 


Pir 27A . Branche welded on header with internal machining 


PART II — Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1956 


1519 


Circumferentialwelding Branch 
by electric fusion 
welding process - 

Conrad.moBa 

Base rum oxyacetyleng 
20° Du welding from outside . 


Y 


" 


Fin . Voin 
radmin 


Psirod.minna 


Make-up ring 


120° 


- - - - 


Kinrad 


- * 


www . 


Sinin . 


ain . 


- Welded from inside 

ground off flush . 


Part longitudinal 
section through 
header & branch . 


Header 


Fig 278. Branch with make-up ring welded on header 
44 . For the heading " Superheaters " above regulation 337, the following heading 
shall be substituted , namely : 
" BOILER AND SUPERHEATER TUBES, HEADERS AND OTHER PRES 

SURE PARTS " , 
45 . In clause ( a ) of regulation 338. 
( 1 ) for the brackets & letters " ( a ) " , " (b ) " and " (c ) " occurring after the 

words " The working metal temperatures" shall be taken as the 
brackets and letters " (1 ) " , " ( ii) ” and “ (ul) ” shall be substituted 

stituted . 
(2 ) for the existing heading to the second column of the Table , the heading 

" Low carbon steel tubes to regulation 36 , 43 and 58 " shall be sub 

respectively . 
46 . In Table 1 below clause (b ) of regulation 844 , under the heading 
" Hydraulic (water gas) Lapwelded Steel Pipes " in the second column for the 
figures " 22 " , the figures " 23" shall be substituted . 
47. In Regulation 363. 
( 1) in clause ( a ) for the word " may " between the words " pipes " and 

" be made" , the word " shall" shall be substituted ; 


1520 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


[PART II — Sec . 3 


(u ) clause (b ) shall be omitted and clause ( c ) shall be re - lettered as 

clause (b ) . 
48 . In clause (c ) of regulation 360 , the following clause shall be substituted , 
namely : 

" (c) Such butt welded Joint shall conform to Figure 32 ” . 
49 . For the table below regulation 504, the following table shall be substituted , 
namely : 


On Components before assembly . 


. 


. Hydraulic test Pressure 


Cast iron tubco , headers and bends 


. 


Twice Working pressure 
Minimun pressure 700 lb . per sq . in . 
Design pressure lbs./8q . Hydraulic test 

Pressure lbs./ eq . io . 


is . 


. 


Steel tubes and bends . 

Ditto . 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 500 or less 
. above 500 but not 

exceeding 1, 000 


1,000 
twice the working 

pressure 


Ditto . 


. 


. 


. 


. above 1,000 


1,000 above the work 

ing pressure . 


Headers 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. below 1,000 


. 


" 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Twice the working 

pressure . 
Working pressure 

plus 1,000 lbs) q. 


. above 1,000 


50 . In the marginal note to regulation 505 the words " Material of construction " 
shall be deleted ., 

51. For regulation 506 , the following regulations shall be substituted , namely : -- 
306 . PROCESS OF MANUFACTURE , 
( a ) The castings shall be cast from metal melted or refined in any suitable 

metallurgical plant other than an iron ore smelting furnace . 
The minimum test results required on test bars 1 - 2 in , in diameter shall be 
in accordance with the following table : - 


Material for tubes and other Minimum ultimate Transverse test on span of 18 in . 
pressure Parts . tensile strength 

Minimum Transverse Minimum deflection 

breaking load 


1b . 


in . 


Grade 14 Iron 
Grade 12 iron 


Tons/sq. in . 
14 . 0 
12 : 0 


2060 
1850 


0 - 16 
O . 15 


NOTA : - Grade 14 and 12 iron correspond to 14 tons and 12 tons ultimate tensile 

strength respectively . 
( b ) In the chemical composition the maximum sulphur content shall not 

exceed 0 . 12 per cent and the maximum phosphorus shall not exceed 
1. 2 per cent. 


PART II — SEC , 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1956 


1521 


52. In clausc ( c ) of regulation 507 between the words " green sand " and " or 
dry sand " the word " or in loam " shall be inserted . 
53 . In regulation 508 .-- 
( i) in the table in clause ( a ) , in the entry in the column headed " Test 

requirements " against Group 3 , for the figure " 4 " the figure 3 " shall 

be substituted ; 
(ii) for clauses (b ) and (c ) and the tables under them , the following shall 

be substituted, namely : 
(b ) Conditions for Acceptance and for Rejection : 


Test 


Result 


Conclusion 


Ist 


. 


. 


. 


Pass 


. 


. 


. 


The batch or separatc castings rc 

presented shall be accepted . 
Two more tests shall be made 


Transverse 


2nd 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Tensile or 

test fails. 
If both pass 
If either fails 


The batch or separate castings rt 

presented shall be accepted . 
The batch or separate castings rc 
presented shall be rejected . 


Provided always that, in the case of failure of any test piece showing obvious 
casting defects , another test piece shall be taken from spare test bars or cut 
from a casting from the same batch and the results obtained from this substitut 
ed for those obtained from the defective test bars." 


54 . In regulation 509 , the table shall be amended as follows: 


. B 


D 


A 


P 


R 


C 


E 


F LpLs 


in . 
1.20 


in . 
0. 798 


in . 
0 . 50 


in . 
2 


in . 
3-1/2 


in . 
2 


in. 
1-1/8 
BSF 
I - 1 / 8 
BSW 


in. 
1-1/8 


in . in . 
8-1/4 5-7/8 


The test bars shall be cast as cylindrical bars of the diameters given in Col B 
and machined to the dimensions given in Col , D & P in the above Table . 


56 . For regulation 510, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely : 
" 510 . The manufacturer shall, on the basis of design details, satisfy the 

Inspecting Authority regarding the design and strength of all parts 
of cast iron economisers subject to the following maximum working 
pressures : 

Max . W . P . 


( 1 ) Ordinary Vertical Tube . . . . . . . . 325 1b / sq . in . 
(2 ) Ordinary Vertical Tube with strengthened tubes 

. . 375 16 / sq. in . 
(3) Ring Stay Vertical Tube 

. . . 475 lb /sq. in . 
(4) Gill Tube type of approved design . . . : 650 lb / sq . in ." 
56 . For regulation 512 , the following regulation shall be substituted , namely : 
" 512 . Economiser water outlet temperature. The design conditions shall be 

such that the maximum outlet water temperature of the economiser 
shall be at least 40°F below the saturated steam temperature in the 

boiler drum ; 
Provided that this requirement shall not apply to economisers used on 

low pressure water heating systems working at pressure less than 
120 ft. head of water " . 


1522 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


[ PART II — SEC. 3 


57. For Regulation 518 , the following regulation shall be subsittuted , namely : 
" 518 . Joint bolts , studs and flanges - - 
( a ) The maximum working pressure for the bolts shall be determined by 

the following formula : 
W .P . - NxC ( D -- 1.28 2 .. . .. . . . .. . .. , Eqn . (121) 

Ans 
N – No. of bolts securing the parts . 

-- No. of screw threads per inch . 
D -- Bolt Diameter in inches measured over the threads. 
A The area exposed to pressure which is assumed to be bounded by a line midway between 

the pitch line of the bolts and the inner edge of the flange where flat joints are used with 
joint rings . Where conical joint faces are used with joint rings , of curvilinear cre88 
section , the area exposed to pressure shall be assumed to extend to the root of the thread 
where the tube ends are screwed , or to a corresponding boundary if the flanges are 

attached by other means. 
C – 4 ,700 for stcol bolts or studs of 28 tons/sq . in . minimum ultimate tensile stress where - 

diameter over thread is less than 3 / 4 inch . 
-- 5, 100 for steel bolts or studs of 30 tons/sq . in . minimum ultimate tensile stress where wo 

diameter over thread is less than 3 / 4 inch . 
C - 5 ,600 for steel bolts or studs of 35 tons/ sq . in . minimum ultimate tensile stress where the 

diameter over thread is less than 3 / 4 inch . 
– 5 ,600 for steel bolts or studs of 28 tons/sq . in , minimum tensile stress where the diameter 

over thread is not less than 3 / 4 inch and not greater than 7 / 8 inch . 
C – 7,000 for steel bolts or studs of 28 tons/sq. in , minimum ultimate tensile stress where the 

diameter over thread is greater than 7 / 8 inch , 
Where the bolts or studs used have a tensile strength exceeding 92 tons sq . in ., 
a plate shall be permanently fixed to the economiser structure in a prominent 
position drawing attention to this fact in case replacements of bolts or studs are 
Qecessary . In no case shall the nuts be exposed to the action of the flue gases . 
(b ) The thickness of each flange shall be not less than that given by the 

following equations 
PD (DI - D ) 


t -V2 


Where - Thickness of flange in thirty-seconds of an inch 

p = Working Pressure , in pounds per square inch ( gauge ). 

D . Outside diameter of the tube in inches. 
DI - Pitch circle diameter of bolts or studs in inches. Provided that such fange is 

cast integral with the body and with the appropriate internal corner radius, 
Io no case , however, shall the thickness of a flange be less than 24 thirty -seconds of an 
inch 

58 . In regulation 519 – 
(i) In clause (f), the following sub -heading shall be substituted , namely : 

" Non - return valves in return feed line " 
( ii ) after clausc (i), the following clauses shall be added , namely :- . 
“ ( ) Feed Line . - - Alternativemeans of feeding the boiler other than through the economisor 

shall be provided . 
(k ) Non - return valve. - - A valve shall be provided in the hot feed line betwcen the econç 

miscr and the boiler to prevent the discharge of steam or water from the boiler into 

the cconomiser." 
59 . In regulation 524, for the words " and caps removed " , the words “ and all caps, door 
and blank flanges removed " shall be substituted , 
60. For clause (b ) of regulation 525, the following clause shall be substituted , namely > 
" (b ) The fitness of the cconomiser parts shall be determined as per the following for 

mulae : 
( 1) Cast iron smooth tube cconomisers with pressed socket joints. 
WP = AZ + 225N Equation ( 124 ) 

700 


PART II - SEC. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 1523 

mo u ntainchante 
Where WP - Design pressure in pounds per square inch (guage) 

A - Area of contact surface of a single socket, square inches . 
4 - Cross sectional area measured on the mean diameter of a socket hole , in square 

inches , 
2 = Breakdown load of an unreinforced socket joint in pounds. 
N = = Number of stays per header, 

n = Number of sockets per header . 

For existing standard designs the breakdown load of an unreinforced socket joint shaly 
be taken as not greater than 13 , 500 lb . For designs not already in use before the date of the 
standard , the corresponding figure shall be taken as not greater than 75 per cent of the load as deter 
mined by experiment. 
( 11 ) Headers of approximately rectangular cross section , 
WP. - C (t - 2 ) ! 

- - - Equation (125) 


Where t - Thickness in thirty Seconds of an inch . 

b = Distance between the sides of header supporting the surface, in inches, 
WP - Design pressure , in pounds per square inch (guage ). 
C . II where thewater side surface is flat. 

22 where the water side surface is curved , 
provided that the curvature is continued without interruption and the thickness at each end 
the side is not less than that determined with C - JI, 

In no case , however, shall the thickness of the side of a header be less than 16 thirty 
seconds of an inch at any part. 
(111) Headers of approximately circular cross section 
WP = 0 .6K ( - 5) Equation ( 126 ) 

D 
Where t - Thickness in thirty K -seconds of an inch . 
WP - Design pressure , in pounds per squarc inch ( guage) . 
D - Outside diameter of header in inches. 
K - 

240 for Grade 14 iron . 
- 220 for Grade 12 iron , 
The minimum thickness of plain cylindrical portions of a beader in that part of the 
length which does not contain tube holes shall comply with the requirernents of sub - clause ( V ). 

In no case , however , shall the thickness at any point may be less than 16 thirty - seconds of 
an inch , 
( iv ) Tubes. 

WP - K ( - C ) Equation ( 127 ) 


Where t - Thickness in thirty - seconds of an inch . 

WP - Design pressure , in pounds per square inch ( guage ). 
D - Outside diameter of tube io inches . 
K - 240 for Grade 14 iron , 

- 220 for Grade 12 iron . 
C = 4 for portion where gills act as reinforcement. 

= $ for portion not reinforced . 
In no case , however, shall the thickness at any point be less than II thirty - seconds of 
an inch . 

(v ) Manifold pipes . 
WP = 0 .8 (1- 5) 

- Equation ( 128 ) 

D 
Where te Thicknces in thirty -seconds of an inch . 

WP – Design pressure, in pounds per saquare inch ( guage). 


1524 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1956 


[ PART II - SEC . 3 


D . Outside diameter of pipes in inches. 
KE 240 for Grade 14 iron . 

220 for Grade 12 iron , 
In no cas , however , shall the thickness of a manifold pip : or branch be less than 
thirty - seconds of an inch , 

( en ) Cast iron en misera with extended surface horizontal tubes . 
Connector Bends. 


14 


WP- 


Equation ( 129 ) 


Where & Thickness of bend in thirty -seconds of an inch , 

WP - Design pressure in pounds per square inch (gauge ). 

D . Outside diameter of bend , in inches, 
Ka 240 . Grade 14 iron , 

z 220 for Grade 12 iron 
In no caso, however, shall the thickness of a connector bond be less tlian 13 thirty - seccd 
of an inch , 

(vii ) Tubes. 
To comply with equation 127 . 

(viii) Manifold pipes, 
To comply with equation ( 128 )" 
61. At the end of paragraph four of Form VII, after the word " test" the words in 
accordance with Regulation 501 " shall be added . 

[BL - 304 (10 ) 152 -PT II) 

M . N . KALE , Secy . 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

New Delhi, the 24th August, 1956 
S . R .O . 2008 , - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that it is neces 
sary to acquire certain evacuee properties in the state of Bombay for a public 
purpose , being a purpose connected with the relief and rehabilitation of displaced 
persons, including payment of compensation to such persons; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 12 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation & Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 
(44 of 1954 ) , it is notified that the Central Government, has decided to acquire , 
and hereby acquires, the eyacuee properties specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed . 

THE SCHEDULE 


Si. 
No. 


Particulars of the evacuee property 


Name of the town & 
locality in which the cvQ - Name of the evacuec 
cuec property is situated 


Greater Bombay 
I 60 -64 Takla Ward , Kurla, L 

Ward No. 1375 and 1375 ( 1) 
ADM 240 /2474 . 


Smt. Aminabai Mirza 

Rahim Beg . 


PART II - SEC, 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1958 


1525 


3 


min . 


232C Mori Road , Mahi, G Ward C . S . No. 1434 of Mahim Bikhoo Jagan Tara , 

No. 6047 , ADM 240 / 1602 Division . 
3 76 - 78, Narayan Dhru Street and C . S . No. 1211 of Mandvi Halambai Wo Abubakur 
5 - 17 Tava Lane, B -Ward No. Division , 

Tayeb . 
902 and 930 . 
ADM 240 /285 . 
4 Shed bearing Bandrag Municipal Ghod Bunder Road , Be- Shri Abdul Kader Patel 

No. 28 , Behind Bombay Gar - hind Bombay Garrage 
rage Santacruz, H . Ward No. (Villeparle ). 
3497 (i) Survey No . 192 . Hissa 

No. 2 , 240 / 18 / A . 
5 40 - D) , 40 - BA , Parel Village Road , Parel Village Bhagwant - Smt, Bibibai Wd/ o Moose 

Bhagwantrao Rd. Ward Nos . rao Pançīkar Road . Haji Yokoob , 
F - 26 . 39 (i) & 2639 (ii) C . S . No. 
356 of Parel Sewri Division . 

240 /2520 . 
6 Bagar Manzil, 11- 15 , Ghoghari 18€ Ghoghari Mohola , Haji Gulam Rasul Sula 

Mohalla , Ist X Lane, Ward Bombay -- 3 . 
No . C /6259 ( 1 ) C . S . No. 2560 , 

Bhulcshawar Dev . 
7 Mahim Cottage, L . J. Road , Ward L . J. Road . , . I. Abdul Rashid & 
No. G - 4944 ( 2 - A ) C . S . No. 

2 . Iqbal w /o Abdul 
3 /2002 /Mahim Divn . 

Rashid . 
8 382-86 , Duncan Rd. C -Ward , Duncan Rd. 

Shri Haji Kasam Hali 
7430 C . S . No. 3776 , Bhulcsh 

Essa . 
war Division (240 / 117 & 143 ). 
9 361, Parel, Bhoiwada F -Ward No. Bhoiwada . . Smt. Fatmabai Kasam 
1442( 1) Scheme No . 57 , ( 2401 

Ali 
2387 ) . 
10 10 Circus Avenue Off Lernington C . S . No. 2/ 1880 of By- Abdul Kader Haji 
Road (240/52). 

vculla Division . 

Mohamed Abas . 
II Bouch House, Versova Road , Survey No. 82 -Plot No. Dawood Habib & Others . 

Andheri, Bombay (240 /236 ). 33 
12 Parsabai Bldg . 54 , Mohd . All C . S . No . 1196 of Mandvi Ahmed Abdul Karim 
Road , Bombay- 3 (240 / 1114 - B ). Division , B - Ward No. Brotherg . 

981 -82. 
13 Plot of land with Chawla thereon C . $ . No . 450 of Lower Mahomed Husscin Haj 

at 112 - 120 - B . C . Delisle Road , Parel Divn . G . Ward Tayeb Kadwani . 
Bridge Near Lower Parel Stn . No. 2304 (2A ) ( 2B ) (2 
(240 / 306 ) . 

BB) (2 - 0 ) 2304 (3 ) (4 ). 


(No. F .10 ( 92 ) SI/ 86.] 
New Delhi , the 28th August 1956 
S . R . O . 2009. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub -Section ( 1 ) of 
Section 3 of the Displaced Persons (Claima) , Supplementary Act, 1954 (No. 12 
of 1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints the following persons to be 
Settlement Commissioners for the purpose oť performing the functions assigned 
to such officers by or under the said Act: 
Sl. No. 

Name of the Officers appointed . 
Shri P . N . Segal. 
Shri Khushi Ram . 
Shri R . S . Das I. A . Ş . 
Shri G . B . K . Hooja, I.A .S . 
Shri N . S . Verma, I. A . S , 
Shri S . N . Seth . 


4 


ส่ 


ง ่ 


ๆ 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1956 


[ PART II Sec . 3 


- 


- 


- 


Dr, Tara Chand 
Shri A . S . Bam , I.C . S . 
Shri Dwarka Das Suri, 
Shri Kushal Singh . 

[No. 16 / 2 / 56 - S - II .) 
New Delhi, the 3rd September 1956 
8 .R .O . 2010.-- In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 
1984 ) the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Rameshwar Dial Mathur, as 
Assistant Settlement Officer for the purpose of pertorming the functions assigned 
to such Officer by or under the said Act, with effect from the date he took charge 
of his post . 

[No. 7 / 26 /56- SII ( PL. II) . ) 
New Delhi, the 4th September 1956 
S .R . O . 2011.- - / R .Amdt. VI. - It is hereby notified for the information of the 
general public that Parliament has made the following amendment to the Dis 
placed Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Rules, 1955 , namely : 

In the said rules, for sub -rule ( 3 ) of rule 19 , the following sub -rule shall be 
substituted namely : 

" ( 3 ) For the purposes of calculating the number of members of a joint family 
under sub - rule ( 2 ) , a person who on the relevant date 

( a ) was less than eighteen years of age; or 
(b ) was a lineal descendant in the male line of another living member of 

the Joint family ; 
sball be excluded : 

Provided that where a member of a joint family has died during the period 
commencing on the fourteenth day of August, 1947, and ending on the relevant 
date , leaving behind on the relevant date all or any of the following heirs , name 
ly : 

( a ) a widow or widows; 

(b ) a son or sons (whatever the age of such son or sons) ; 
but no lineal ascendant in the male line, then , all such heirs shall , notwithstanding 
anything contained in this rule , be reckoned as one member of the joint family . 

[No. F .51 ( 25 ) SI/ 55. ) 
KULWANT SINGH , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 27th August 1956 
S . R . O . 2012 . - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that it is neceg 
sary to acquire certain evacuee properties in the State of Orissa for a public pur 
pose , being a purpose connected with the relief and rehabilitation of displaced 
persons, including payment of compensation to such persons; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the Dlo 
placed Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 (44 of 1954 ) , it is 
notified that the Central Government has decided to acquire , and hereby acquires 
the evacuee properties specified in the Schedule below ; 


THE SCHEDULE 
All evacuee properties comprising agricultural lands in the State of Orissa 
except all such properties falling under any one or more of the following cate 
gories ; 
( 1) any such property 
(1 ) in respect of which proceedings are pending before any authority at 

the date of this notification under the Administration of Evacuee 


- 


- - 


PART II — SEC . 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 1527 

- 
Property Act, 1950 ( XXXI of 1950 ) , in which the question at issue is 

whether the property is or is not evacuee property ; or 
( ii ) in respect of which the period of limitation , if any, ixed for an appeal 

or revision under the said Act for disputing the vesting of tho 

property in the Custodian as evacuee property has not expired . 
( 2 ) any such property in respect of which an application for the grant of a 
certificate under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 16 of the Administration of Evacuee 
Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) , is pending at the date of this notification or 
in respect of which the period of limitation fixed for making such application has 
not expired . 

( 3 ) any such property which has been restored under section 16 of the 
Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) , or in respect of 
which an application under sub - section ( 2 ) of that section for its restoration is 
pending at the date of this notification or in respect of which a certificate under 
sub - section ( 1 ) of that section has been granted but no application under sub 
section ( 2 ) of that section for its restoration has been made. 

(4 ) any such property which before the date of this notification has been , 
transferred and the transfer is effective under section 40 of the Administration of 
Evacuee Property Act, 1950 ( XXXI of 1950 ) , or in respect of which any pro 
ceedings are pending at the date of this notification under that section . 

( 5 ) any such property which is a composite property within the meaning of 
the Evacuee Interest (Separation ) Act, 1951 (LXIV of 1951) . 

( 6 ) any such property in respect of which any proceedings are pending in 
Civil Court wherein the question at issue is whether the property is evacuee 
property or not. 

( 7 ) any such property which at the date of this notification is being treated 
or is being managed as a trust property for a public purpose of a religious or 
charitable nature under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 11 of the Administration of 
Evacuee Property Act , 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) . 

[ No . SIII- I( 18) ( 2) /56.1.) 


8 . R . O . 2013 . - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that it is 
necessary to acquire certain evacuee properties in the State of Orissa for a public 
purpose, being a purpose connected with the relief and rehabilitation of displaced 
persons, including payment of compensation to such persons; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the Dis 
placed Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 1954 ) , it 1 
notified that the Central Government has decided to acquire, and hereby acquires .. 
the evacuee properties specified in the Schedule below . 


THE SCHEDULE 
Au rural houses in village abadis ( including vacant sites and cattle sheds ) in 
the State of Orissa, that is to say, houses situated in any area in that State outside 
the limits of a corporation , a municipality , a municipal committee a notified area 
committee, a town area or a small town committee or a cantonment as those 
limits existed on the 15th August , 1947 , which have been declared or are deemed 
to have been declared as evacuee properties under the Administration of Evacuee 
Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) , except all such properties falling under any 
one or more of the following categories : - 
( 1) any such property - - 
( i ) in respect of which proceedings are pending before any authority at the 

date of this notiAcation under the Administration of Evacuee Pro 
perty Act , 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) , in which the question at issue is 

whether the property is or is not evacuee property ; or 
Gi) in respect of which the period of limitation , if any , fixed for an appeal 

or rcvision under the said Act for disputing the vesting of the pro 

perty in the Custodian as evacuee property has not expired . 
( 2 ) any such property in respect of which an application for the grant of a 
certificate under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 16 of the Administration of Evacuee 
Property Act , 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) , is pending at the date of this notification or 
in respect of which the period of limitation fixed for making such application has 
not expired . 


1528 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1956 


[PART 11 — Sec. 3 


( 3 ) any such property which has been restored under section 16 of the 
Administration of Evacuee Property Act , 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) , or in respect of 
which an application under sub - section ( 2 ) of that section for its restoration is 
pending at the date of this notification or in respect of which a certificate under 
Sub - Section ( 1 ) of that section has been granted but no application under sub 
section ( 2 ) of that section for its restoration has been made . 

( 4 ) any such property which before the date of this notification has been 
transferred and the transfer is effective under section 40 of the Administration 
of Evacuee Property Act , 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) , or in respect of which any pro 
ceedings are pending at the date of this notification under that section . 

(5 ) any such property which is a composite property within the meaning of 
the Evacuee Interest ( Separation ) Act, 1951 (LXIV of 1951) . 

( 6 ) any such property in respect of which any proceedings are pending in a 
Civil Court wherein the question at issue is whether the property is evacuee 
property or not. 

( 7 ) any such property which at the date of this notification is being treated 
or is being managed as a trust property for a public purpose of a religious or 
charitable nature under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 11 of the Administration of 
Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) . 

[NO. SIII - I ( 18 ) ( 2 ) /56. II. 
S .R . O . 2014 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that it is neces 
sary to acquire certain evacuee properties in the State of Bihar for a public pur 
pose , being a purpose connected with the relief and rehabilitation of displaced 
persons, including payment of compensation to such persons; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the Dis 
placed Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 1954 ) , it is 
notified that the Central Government has decided to acquire, and hereby acquires, 
the eyacuee properties specified in the Schedule below ; 

THE SCHEDULE 
All evacuee properties comprising agricultural lands in the State of Bihar, 
except all such properties falling under any one or more of the following cate 
gories ; 
( 1 ) any such property 
( 1) in respect of which proceedings are pending before any authority at 

the date of this notification under the Administration of Evacuee Pro 
perty Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) , in which the question at issue is 

whether the property is or is not evacuee property ; or . 
( ii ) in respect of which the period of limitation , if any, fixed for an appeal 

or revision under the said Act for disputing the vesting of the pro 

perty in the Custodian as evacuee property has not expired . 
( 2 ) any such property in respect of which an application for the grant of a 
certificate under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 16 of the Administration of Evacuee 
Property Act , 1950 ( XXXI of 1950 ) , is pending at the date of this notification 
or in respect of which the period of limitation fixed for making such application 
ihas not expired . 

( 3 ) any such property which has been restored under section 16 of the 
Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) , or in respect of 
which an application under sub - section ( 2 ) of that section for its restoration is 
pending at the date of this notification or in respect of which a certificate under 
sub - section ( 1 ) of that section has been granted but no application under sub 
section ( 2 ) of that section for its restoration has been made . 

( 4 ) any such property which before the date of this notification has been 
transferred and the transfer is effective under section 40 of the Administration 
of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1960 ) , or in respect of which any pro 
ceedings are pending at the date of this notification under that section . 

( 5 ) any such property which is a composite property within the meaning of 
the Evacuee Interest (Separation ) Act, 1951 ( LXIV of 1951) . 

(6 ) any such property in respect of which any prodeedings are pending in a 
Civil Court wherein the question at issue is whether the property is evacuee 
property or not. 


PART II - SEC , 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1956 


152 g 


. 


( 7 ) any such property which at the date of this notification is being treated 
or is being managed as a trust property for a public purpose of a religious or 
charitable nature under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 11 of the Administration of 
Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) . 


[No. SIII. 1 ( 18 ) ( 1 ) / 56. 1. ] 


S . R . O . 2015 . - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that it is neces 
sary to acquire certain evacuee properties in the State of Bihar for a public pur 
pose , being a purpose donnected with the relief and rehabilitation of displaced 
persons, including payment of compensation to such persons ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the Dig 
placed Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 1954 ) , it is 
notified that the Central Government has decided to acquire , and hereby acquires , 
the evacuce properties specified in the Schedule below . 


THE SCHEDULE 
All rural houses in village abadis ( including vacant sites and cattle sheds ) in 
the State of Bihar that is to say , houses situated in any area in that State outside 
the limits of a corporation , a municipality , a municipal committee, a notified area 
committee, a town area or a small town committee or a cantonment as those 
Imits existed on the 15th August, 1947 which have been declared or are deemed 
to have been declared as evacuee properties under the Administration of Evacuee 
Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) , except all such properties falling under any 
one or more of the following categories : - 
( 1 ) any such property 
( 1) In respect of which proceedings are pending before any authority at 

the date of this notification under the Administration of Evacuee 
Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) , in which the question at issue 

is whether the property is or is not evacuee property ; or 
( ii) in respect of which the period limitation if any , fixed for an appeal or 

revision under the said Act for disputing the vesting of the property 

in the Custodian as evacuee property has not expired ; 
( 2 ) Any such property in respect of which an application for the grant of a 
certificate under sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 16 of the Administration of Evacuee 
Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) , is pending at the date of this notification or 
in respect of which the period of limitation fixed for making such application has 
not expired ; 

( 3 ) any such property which has been restored under Section 16 - of the Ad 
ministration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) , or in respect of 
which an application under sub - section ( 2 ) of that section for its restoration is 
pending at the date of this notification , or in respect of which a certificate under 
sub - section ( 1 ) of that section has been granted but no application under sub 
section ( 2 ) of that section for its restoration has been made ; 

( 4 ) any such property which before the date of this notification has been 
transferred and the transfer is ffcctive under section 40 of the Administration 
of Evacuec Property , Act , 1950 ( XXXI of 1950 ) , or in respect of which any 
proceedings are pending at the date of this notification under that section ; 

(5 ) any such property which is a composite property within the meaning of 
the Evacuee Interest ( Separation ) Act, 1951 (LXIV of 1951) . 

(6 ) any such property in respect of which any proceedings are pending in a 
Civil Court wherein the question at issue is whether the property is evacues 
property or not ; 

( 7 ) any such property which at the date of this notification is being treated or 
is being managed as a trust property for a public purpose of a religious or 
charitable nature under sub -section ( 1 ) of section 11 of the Administration of 
Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) . 


[No. SIII. 1 ( 38 ) ( 1 ) /86. II .] 

I. N . CHIB , Dy. Secy , 


1530 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1956 


[ PART II — Seç. 8 


FLHI DEVELOPM 


the 31st Augustw 


section 14 of thevelop 


DELHI DEVELOPMENT PROVISIONAL AUTHORITY 

New Delhi, the 31st August 1956 
S .R . O . 2016 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 14 of the Delhi 
(Controi of Building Operations) Act, 1955 (No. 53 of 1955 ) the Delhi Develop 
ment Provisional Authority , New Delhi, hereby directs that the powers exercis 
able by it under sections 6 and 7 regarding the grant or refusal or permission to 
erect any building and powers under sections 8 , 10 and 12 of the said Act, may 
also be exercised by the New Delhi Municipal Committee, New Delhi, in respect 
of the following areas, namely : 

1. Sundar Nagar ; 
2 . Diplomatic Enclave ; 
3 , Lajpat Nagar ; 
4 . Nizamuddin (East ) ; and 
5 . New Rajindar Nagar . 

[No. F . 1 ( 147) / 56 - A . ) 
New Delhi, the 2nd September 1956 
S .R . O . 2017 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 14 of the Delhi 
( Control of Building Operations ) Act, 1955 (53 of 1955 ) the Delhi Development 
Provisional Authority hereby directs that the powers exercisable under Section 
7 of the said Act in respect of Boundary Walls may also be exercised by the 
Executive Engineers of the Authority . 

[No. F .1 (5 ) / 55 -Admn. } 
G . MUKHARJI, Member -Secretary . 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 

New Delhi, the 28th August 1958 
S .R . O . 2018 . - In pursuance of sub -rule ( 2 ) of rule 5 of the Labour Officers ( Central Pool 
Recruitment and Conditions of Service Rules , 1951 , the Government of India hereby recognisex 
the institutions mentioned in column I below in respect of the degree or diploma in social work 
mentioned in the corresponding entry in column II for the purpose of the said sub - rule . 


II 


I. Any University in India established by law 


2 . Tata Institute of Social Science , Bombay . 
3 . Kashi Vidya Pith , Banaras . 


. Any degree or diploma in Social Work 

granted by such University . 
, Diploma in Social Science Administration . 

Degree ofMaster of Applied Sociology. 


[No. LWI-21( 2 ) / 56 . ) 


New Delhi, the 318t August 1956 
S . R . O . 2019 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 6 and 9 of the 
Minimum Wages Act, 1948 ( 11 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby Domi 
nateg Shri T . S . Parasuraman Deputy Secretary to the Government of India , 
Ministry of Transport, New Delhi, to be a member of the Advisory Committee 
appointed in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour, No. SRO -2087, dated the 21st June, 1954, in the vacancy caused by the 
resignation of Shri K . Narayanan , Deputy Secretary to the Government of India , 
Ministry of Transport, New Delhi, and makes the following amendment in the 
said notification , namely :-- 

Under the heading " ( 2 ) Representatives of the Employers" , for the entry " I. 
Shri K Narayanan Deputy Secretary to the Government of India , Ministry of 
Transport, New Delhi" , the entry " I. Shri T . S . Parasuraman , Deputy Secretary 
to the Government of India , Ministry of Transport, New Delhi " shall be substituted . 

[No. LWI( 1 ) - 0 ( 11 ) / 56 .) 


PART II Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8 , 1956 


1531 


S .R .O . 2020 . In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 7 and 9 of the 
Minimum Wages Act, 1948 ( 11 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby nomi 
nates Shri T . S . Parasuraman , Deputy Secretary to the Government of India , 
Ministry of Transport, New Delhi, to be a member of the Advisory Board appointed 
in notifcation of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour No . SRO - 2088 
dated the 21st June 1964 , in the vacancy caused by the resignation of Shri 
K . Narayanan , Deputy Secretary to the Government of India , Ministry of Trans 
port , New Delhi, and makes the following amendment in the said notification , 
nainely : 

Under the heading “ ( 2 ) Representatives of Employers" , for the entry " I. Shri 
K . Narayanan , Deputy Secretary to the Government of India , Ministry of Trans 
port, New Delhi" the entry " I Shri T . S . Parasuraman , Deputy Secretary to 
the Government or India , Ministry of Transport, New Delbt" shall be substituted . 

[ No. LWI( I) - ( II) /56 .] 
A . L . HANDA , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 31st August 1956 
S . R . O . 2021 . - In pursuance of clause ( c ) of section 2 of the Industrial Employ 
ment ( Standing Orders) Act, 1946 (20 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby 
makes the following amendment in the notiAcation of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Labour No. LR11 ( 100 ) dated the 30th May 1950 , namely : 

In column 2 of the Schedule to the sald notification , against the entry " Kutch " , 
In column 1 , for the words " State Engineer , Kutch , Bhuj" , the words " Executive 
Engineer, Kutch , Bhuj" , shall be substituted . 

[No , LR11 ( 100 ) . ] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 28th August 1956 
S . R . O . 2022 . - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Toonka and Chapter 
mice mines of Messrs Daduwala and Company , Bhilwara , and their workmen , 
in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 and clause 
( c ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 (XIV of 
1947) , the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of 
which Shri Anand Narain Kaul, R . J . S . (Higher ) , Judge, Industrial Tribunal, 
Rajasthan , Jaipur, shall be the sole member and refers the said dispute for 
adjudication to the said Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 
1. Whether the workmen who were re - instated are entitled to wages for 

the period from the 4th May to 8th May , 1956 , when they were not 

at work , 
2 . Whether the action of the management in requiring that the " Kachra " 

( waste mica ) be removed and cleared from the places of work by 
the piece - rated mica - cutters on the mines was in order. 

[No. LR - II- 57 - 1 (6 ) / 56 .] 


New Delhi, the 30th August 1956 
S . R . O . 2023 . - - Whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that an 
industrial dispute exists or is apprehended between the employers in relation to 
the gold mines of the Kolar Gold Fields , Mysore, specified in Schedule I hereto 
annexed and their workmen regarding the matters specified in Schedule II hereto 
annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the dis 
pute for adjudication ; 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


PART II - SEC . 3 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( c ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Madras, constituted under section 7 of the said Act. 


SCHEDULI I 
( 1 ) Mysore Gold Mining Co . (Kolar Gold Feld ) , Ltd . 
( 2 ) Champion Reef Gold Mining Company of India (Kolar Gold Field ) 

Limited . 
( 3 ) Nundydroog Gold Mining Company (Kolar Gold Field ) , Limited . 
(4 ) Kolar Gold Field Electricity Department, Oorgaum . 
( 5 ) Kolar Mines Power Station (Kolar Gold Field ) , Oorgaum . 

SCHMDULE II 
Grades of wages for monthly and daily -rated workmen , including the date 
with effect from which the new grades, if allowed , should come into force and 
the method of fitting the existing workmen into the new grades. 


[No. LRII- 1 -57 ( 8 ) / 56. ) 
P . D . GAIHA , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 1st September 1956 
S .R . O . 2024 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
10 of the Coal Mines Provident Fund and Bonus Schemes Act, 1948 (46 of 1948 ) , 
and in supersession of the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour No, PF . 16 ( 25 ) dated the 2nd April, 1952, the Central Government hereby 
Appoints the following officers to be Inspectors for the purposes of the Coal Mines 
Bonus Scheme, Coal Mines Provident Fund Scheme, Hyderabad Coal Mines Bonus 
Scheme, Hyderabad Coal Mines Provident Fund Scheme, Assam Coal Mines Bonus 
Scheme and Rajasthan Coal Mines Bonus Scheine, and directs that they shall, in 
relation to coal mines , exercise the powers and perform the functions of Inspec 
tors under the said Act in the States of West Bengal, Bihar , Madhya Pradesh , 
Orissa , Vindhya Pradesh , Assam , Hyderabad and Rajasthan , namely 

( 1 ) The Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) 
( 2 ) All Regional Labour Commissioners (Central) 
(3 ) All Concillation Officers (Central) 
( 4 ) All Labour Inspectors (Central) 
(5 ) All Junior Labour Inspectors ( Central) 

[NO. PF. 1 ( 7 ) / 56 .) 


S . R . O . 2025 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
10 of the Coal Mines Provident Fund and Bonus Schemes Act, 1948 ( 48 of 1948 ) , 
and in supersession of the notifcation of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour No . PF .6 ( 20 ) / 54 - II dated , the 27th June, 1955, the Central Government 
hereby appoints the following Omcers to be Inspectors for the purposes of the 
Coal Mines Provident Fund Scheme, the Coal Mines Bonus Scheme, the Hydera 
bad Coal Mines bonus Scheme, the Hyderabad Coal Mines Provident Fund 
Scheme, the Asgarn Coal Mines Bonus Scheme and the Rajasthan Coal Mines 
Bonus Scheme, and directs that they shall, in relation to coal mines , exercise the 
powers and perform the functions of Inspectors under the sald Act in the States 
of West Bengal, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh , Orissa, Vindhya Pradesh , Assam , Hydera, 
bad and Rajasthan ; namely : 

( 1 ) The Coal Mines Provident Fund Commissioner . 
( 2 ) The Assistant, Commissioner, Coal Mines Provident Fund , 
( 3 ) All Provident Fund Inspectors. 

[ NO. PF .1 ( 7) / 56. ) 


PART II — Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


1533 


New Delhi, the 3rd September 1956 
S .R . O . 2026 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that a provident 
fund scheme should be framed under the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952: 
( 19 of 1952) in respect of the employees of the industries specified in the table 
below ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of said Act, 
the Central Government hereby directs that with effect from 30th Sptember , 1966 , 
the said industries shall be added to Schedule I of the said Act . 


TABLE 
1. Heavy and fine chemicals , including 

( 1) Fertilizers 
( ü ) Turpentine 
( ii ) Rosin 
( iv ) Medical and pharmaceutical preparations 
( v ) Toilet preparations 
(vi ) Soaps 
( vii) Inks 
( vill) Intermediates , dyes , colour lakhs and toners and 
. (ix ) Fatty acids . 
2. Indigo 
3 . Lac Including shellac 
4 . Non - edible vegetable and animal oils and fats. 


INO, PF,48 ( 31) / 56 . 


S . R . O . 2027. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section , 
7 of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby directs that the following further amendments shall be made in 
the Employees Provident Funds Scheme 1952 , namely : 


In the said Scheme- - 

1 . in clause (b ) of sub - paragraph ( 3 ) of paragraph 1, sub - clause ( ii ) shall be 
re - aumbered as ( lii ) thereof and the following sub - clause shall be inserted ag. 
sub - clause ( ii) namely : 
" ( 11) as respects factories relating to the industries added to Schedule I of 

the Act by notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour S . R . O . 2028 dated 3rd September , 1956 come into force on 

the 30th day of September, 1958 " . 
2 . in clause (kk ) of paragraph 2 for the words “ Tea , Sugar or Rubber the 
following shall be substituted , namely : 

" tea, sugar, rubber, turpentine, rosin , indigo or lac" . 
3. In paragraph 79 the words on or before the 31st day of October 1952 shall 
be omitted . 


[No, PF .64 ( 39 ) / 58 . 


New Delhi, the 4th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2028 . - In pursuance of paragraph 31 ( 1 ) ( b ) of the Employees Provident 
Funds Scheme, 1952 , the Central Government hereby nominates Shri P . S . 
Sundaram , Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Commerce and Industry to be a member of the Board of Trustees (Central Boara ) , 
Constituted under the said Scheme in the vacancy caused by the resignation of 
Shri B . B . Saksena and directs that the following amendment shall be made in 
the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour No . S . R . O . 
1881, dated the 31st October , 1962, namely : 


1534 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


[ PART II - Sec. 3 


In the said notification for the entry " 3. Shri B . B . Saksena , Deputy Secretary 
to the Government of India , Ministry of Commerce and Industry, New Delhi," the 
following entry should be substituted , namely : 
" 3. Shri P . S . Sundaram , Deputy Secretary to the Government of India , 

Ministry of Commerce and Industry , New Delhi. 


[NO. PF. 33 ( 16 ) / 58 .] 
R . C . SAKSENA , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

CORRIGENDA 

New Delhi-2 , the 28th August 1956 
S . R . O . 2029 . - In the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Information and Broadcasting No. S . R . O . 729, dated the 20th March , 1958 for 
the letters " U . K . " read " U . S . A ." 


[No. 8 / 4 / 56 -FC . ] 


New Delhi-2 , the 3rd September 1956 
8 . R . O . 2080. — In the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Information Broadcasting No. S . R . O . 659 dated the 9th March , 1956 , for the 
letters " U . K ." read U . S . A .” 

[No. 8 / 3 /56-FC .) 


ORDERS 


New Delhi -2 , the 28th August 1956 
. S . R .O . 2031. The Central Government hereby : -- 
( a ) directs , in pursuance of the provisions of the Order of the Govern 

ment of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting 
No. S . R . O . 3805, dated the 26th December, 1955 and in modification 
of the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Informa 
tion and Broadcasting No. S . R . O . 1712 , dated the 18th July , 1966 , 
that the Advisory Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors at 
Calcutta shall consist of 14 members with effect from the 18th 

August, 1956 . 
( b ) appoints , after consultation with the Central Board of Film Censors 

the following persons as members of the Advisory Panel of the 
said Board at Calcutta with effect from the 18th August, 1956, in 
exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 9 read 
with sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 10 of the Cinematograph (Censorship ) 

Rules, 1951: 
1, Shri Arun Kumar Mukherjea . 
2 . Shrimati Mira Datta Gupta . 

[No. 14 / 3 / 56 -FC .) 
New Delhi, the 30th August, 1956 
S . R . O . 2032 . In pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the 
provisions of each of the enactments specified in the First Schedule to the order 
of Government of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting 
No, S . R . O . 945 , dated the 28th April, 1955, the Central Government with previous 
approval of the Film Advisory Board , Bombay hereby certifles Alm specified in 
bolumn 2 of the schedule hereto annexed , in all its language yersions to be of the 


PART II — Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


1535 


description specified against it in the corresponding entry of column 5 of the said 
schedule . 

SCHEDULE 


S . No . 


Title of the Film 


Namo af tho 
Producer 


Source of 
Supply 


Whether a scientific 

Alm or & Alm 
Intended for edu 
cational purposes 
or film dealing 
with new and 
current events or 
a documentary 
Altn . 


Indian New 
Review No. 411 


Government of India , Government of India , Film dealing with 

Film . Division , Films Division , news and current 
Bombay . Bombay . 

event . 


[No. 14 /2/ 56-FD .App. 99.] 
D . KRISHNA AYYAR , Under Secy . 


PRINID IN JADJA BY TID GENERAL MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRISO , 
NEW DAJUS AND PUBLISHED AY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI , 19.56 


