REGISTERED No. D . 222 


The Gazette um 


of India 


18 . 2 . 5 


सत्यमेव जयते 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


No. 7 ] 

NEW DELIII, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 16 , 1957 
- - - - - - - - = = = - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - 

NOTICE 
The tindermentioned Gazette of Indii Extraordinary was published upto the 8th February 1957 : - - 


- 


- 


Issue 


No, and date 


Issued hy 


Subject 


No. 


. 


- 


- - - 


- - - 


- - 


- - - - 


14 No. 1 - ETC ( P . N .) / 57, dated the Ministry of Commerce and Con - Export of Pashmina Wool for the 
8th February 1957 . 

sumer Industries , 

period January - Junc 1957, 
- - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
Copies of the Gazette Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on Indent to the Manager of 
Publications , Civil Lines , Delhi, Indents should be submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten 
days of the date of issue of this Gazette . 


- - - 


CONTENTS 
PAGES 

PART II - SECTION 4 . – Statutory Rules and 

Orden podfied by the Ministry of Defence 


PAGES 


PART 


23 


1 - SECTION 1.- Notifications relating to 
Non - Stetutory Rules , Regulations and 
Orders and Resolutions issued by the 
Miglotries of the Government of India 
( other than the Ministry of Defence ) 
and by the Supreme Court . . 


Part 1 - SECTION 2 . - Nodications regarding 

Appointment) , Promotions , Leve, 
etc. of Government Officers losucd 
by the Ministries of the Government 
of India (other than the Ministry of 

Defonon ) and by the Supreme Court . 
Part I - SECTION 3. - Notficadons relating 

to Non - Statutory Rules , Regulations, 
Order and Resolutions , logued by tho 

Ministry of Defence 
PART 1 - SECTION 4 . - Notifications regarding 

Appointments, Promodon , Leave, 
etc . of Officers, issued by the Ministry 

of Defence . . . . . 
PART II - SECTION I. - Acts, Ordinances god 

Regulations . . 
PART II — SBCTION 2 . - Blue and Reports of 

Select Committees on Bills - 
PART 11 - SECTION 3 . Statutory Rules and 

Orders notied by the Ministries of 
the Government of India , other than 
tho Ministry of Defence and Central 
Authorities , other than the Chief 
Commigdonon , 


PART III — SECTION 1. - Notifications issued by 

the Auditor General, Union Public Service 
Commission , Rallway Administration , High 
Courts , and tho Attached and Şubordinate 
Offices of the Government of India 

( Pubishod of Simla ) . . . . 
PART III - SECTION 2 . -- Nodfications and 

Notices losued by the Patent Offico , 

Calcutta ( Published a Sinta ) , 
PART III - SECTION 3 . -- Nodicadono losued 

by or under the authority of Chief 

Commissioner ( Published at Simla ) . 
PART III - SBCTION 4 - Miscellanood . Not 

Acatlono ( Published a Simla ) . . 
PART IV - Advortisements and Notices by 

Private Individuals and Corporations 
( Publu hed af Simla ) . . . 


SUPPLEMENT No. 7 
Reported attacks and deaths from cholera , small 

Por, plague and typhus in districts in India 
during tho wock ending rgth January , 
1957 

. . 


Births and deaths from principal discascs in 

towns with a population of 30 , 000 and 
over in India during the week cading 
19th January, 1957 . . . . . 


86 


279 


PART 6 - Section 1 
Notifications relating to Non -Statutory Rulos , Regulations and Orders and Resolutions issued 
by the Ministries of the Government of India ( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by 

the Supreme Court 


OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY TO THE PRESIDENT 

Balwant Singh lcarnt that Molu and Harkishan alias 

Sahia , two notorious outlaws, were in a house in the 
New Delhi, the 6th February 1957 

village of Khera Ganda . Having disposed his force 

to cover all the possible routes of escape, the Inspector 
No. 14 - Pres . /57, — The President is pleased to award with some of his men climbed on to the roof of the 
the Police Medal for gallantry to the undermentioned house in which the outlụws Wire hiding, and called 
officer of the former Patiala and East Punjab States on them to surrender, but was met with firing. The 
Union : 

Inspector And a Constable then took up a position 
Num : of officer anil rank . - - Shri Balwant Singh , 

behind a heap of earth in the courtyard of the house . 

The dacoits hurled two hand - grenades at them , which 
Inspector of Police , No. 31 / P , 

failed to explode but compelled them to withdraw . 
Statement of sirvirr s for which the decoration has Finding that the outlaws were well entrenched and 
been awarded . On the 9th August 1955 Inspector that it would be difficult to dislodge them , the 

( 51 ) 


- - 


- 


- 


52 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 18 , 1957 

[PART 1 -- Sec. 1 
- - - - - - - - - - 
Inspector decided to set fire to the house by making Two days later more flood water came into the area 
a hole in the roof. Realising the danger to them , the and would undoubtedly have caused great damage 
dacoits rushed out of the house firing Inspector had not the sluice gates been partially dismentled . 
Balwant Singh had , in the mcantime, taken up 

Constable Manphool Singh displayed great courage 
position with a party of police to cover the exit and 

and devotion to public service outside the line of his 
Molu was shot down as he emerged , while Harkishan 

official duty . 
was hit and killed at a distance of 50 yards. Harkishan 
was armed with a . 303 rifle and had also two MK , 36 

This award is made for gallantry under rule 4 (i ) 
hand - grenades on him . Molu was armed with a 

of the rules governing the award of the President s 
12 bore D . B . B .L , gun and had a large number of 

Police and Fire Services Medal and consequently 
cartridges . 

carries with it the special allowance admissible to 

officers of and below the rank of Inspector of Police 
In liquidating these two notorious dacoits Inspector 

as provided in rule 5 . 
Balwant Singh displayed courage and leadership of a 
high order. 

C . S . VENKATACHAR , Secy . 
This award is made for gallantry under rule 4 ( i ) 

MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS 
of the Rules governing the award of the Police Medal 

(Posts & Telegraphs) 
and consequently carries with it the special allowance 
admissible to officers of and below the rank of 

New Delhi, the 6th February 1957 
Inspector of Police as provided in rule 5 . 

No. H . 16 - 31 / 54 . It is notified for general in 
New Delhi, the 9th February 1957 

formation that Ordinary ( Public ) and Service post 

agc stamps including postcards , envelopes ctc ., bearing 
No . 15 - Pres ./ 57, - - The President is pleased to award the effigy of His Late Majesty King George V or His 
the President s Police and Fire Services Medal for 

Late Majesty King George VI, demonetised in accor 
gallantry to the undermentioned officer of the Uttar dance with the Government of India , Ministry of Com 
Pradesh Police : - 

munications ( Posts and Telegraphs ) Notification No 
Name of the officer and rank . — Shri Manphool Singh , 

H 16 - 31 /54 dated the 28th December , 1954, published 
Constable No . 714 , Civil Policc , District Agra , Uttar 

at pages 63 -64 of the Gazette of India , Part II, Section 
Pradesh 

3 , dated the 8th January, 1955 , S . R . O 92 dated the 28th 
Statement of services for which the decoration has 

December , 1954 , if still lying with the departments of 

Governincnt or members of the public , may be ex 
been awarded . — By the morning of 13th August, 1956 , 
flood waters from Bharatpur had 

changed for current stamps of equivalent value with 

reached the 
neighbourhood of Fatehpur Sikri in Agra District and 

in a period of six weeks, commencing from February 

15 , 1957 on the same terms and conditions as laid down 
the surrounding area was a vast sheet of water spread 
over several miles . The water level at the Tera Mori 

in para 2 of the above notification 
Bandh near Fatehpur Sikri had already over - shot the 

The Notification cited above is reproduced below : 
danger mark by a foot and was still rising rapidly . 

" S .R .O . 92. — It is hereby notified for general in 
It was quite apparent that unless the sluice gates of 

formation that Ordinary (public ) and 
the Bandh were opened immediately , the rising waters 

Service postage stamps including postcards, 
would endanger the safety of the dam itself and the 

envelopes , etc. bearing the omgy of His Late 
devastation of the adjoining villages would result if 

Majesty King George V or His Late Majesty 
the dam was breached . 

King George VI will, with effect from 1st 
This Tera Mori Bandh had been constructed in the 

October 1954 , not be accepted in pre- payment 
days of Emperor Akhar and had been in disuse for a 

of postage or telegraph charges or other sums 
considerable length of time. No mechanical devices 

chargeable under the Indian Post Office Act, 
were available for opening the sluice gates and the 

1898 ( VI of 1898 ) , or the Indian Telegraph 
employces of the Canal Department were themselves 

Act, 1885 (XIII of 1885 ) . 
unable to open them . At this critical stage Constable 

2 . Ordinary adhesive or embossed postage stamps 
Manphool Singh volunteered to enter the swift current 

of the above description including postal stationery , 
and bodily remove the planks of the sluice gates. 

c . g ., postcards, envelopes, bcaring printed matter may, 
With a rope tied round his waist he entered the water 

however , he exchanged for current stamps of equiva 
and with considerable difficulty and at great personal 

lent value free of cost at Indian Post Offices and Scr 
risk succeeded in removing 14 wooden planks of the 

vice postage stamps at Government Treasuries within 
gates . Thereafter the current became so swift that 

six months from the aforesaid date , provided they are 
he was carried away and had to be pulled out of the unused and unspoiled ." 
water . 

H . C . SHARMA , Under Secy . 


MINIŞRTY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 8th February 1957 
No. F .3 ( 1)- P .1./ 96 . - Statemcot of the Affairs of tho Reserve Bank of India us on the 1st February , 1987, 

BANKING DEPARTMENT 


LIABILITIES 


RE 


14 ,54,88 ,000 


. 
. 
. 


6 , 51, 000 


12, 73 ,000 


. 
. 


Capital paid up . . . . 
Roserve Fund 
National Agricultural Credit ( Long -term Opera 

tloni ) Fund . . . . . . 
Nacional Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation ) Fund 
Doposia 
(a) Government 

( 1) Central Government 

( ) Other Government 
(6) Banks . . . 

(o ) Othon . . . 
Bille Payable . . . . . 
Other Llabilda . 

ΤοΤΑΣ : 


Rs. 

ARTS 
9,00, 00,000 Notes . . . . . . 
3,00,00 ,000 Rupee Coln . . . . . 

Subsidiary Cola . . . . . 
19,00 ,00 ,000 

Bul. Purchased and Dluconated 1 
1 ,00 , 00 ,000 

(a ) Internal . . . . 
(6) External . . . . 

(c) Government Treasury Bills 
52 , 34 , 51, 000 
Balancos held abroad " . . 

. 
16 ,68,48,000 

Loans and Advanced to Governments . 
54 ,44 ,01,000 

Other Loans and Advancort . . . 
13 ,40 ,42,000 

Lavestments . . . . . . 
15,00 , 38 ,000 

Other Adseth , . . . 
112 ,87 ,07 ,000 
290 ,74,87,000 

TOTAL 


1 ,42, 19 ,000 


. 


93,84 ,24,000 

6 , 24 ,70 ,000 
108 ,45,67,000 
51,42,84,000 
14 ,61, 11,000 


. 
. 


- 


290 ,74 ,87,000 


" Includes Cash and Short Term Securities 

( 1) The item Other Logos and Advances includes Rs. 58 ,87 ,67 ,000 advanced to scheduled banks against USADO bills unler 
Section 1764 ) (c ) of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 

(1) The total amount of advances availed of by scheduled banks against agance bills under Section 17(4X ) of the Reserve Bank 
of India Act inoe Ist January 1997 1 Rs. 59 , 12 , 48 . 000 . 


PART 1 - SEC. 1 ] 


THË GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 16 , 1967 


$ 


An Account purgkiant to the Reserve Bank of India Act , 1934 , for the week ended the ist day of February , 1997 . 


ISSUE DEPARTMENT 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Ro, 


Ro. 


Noces beld in the Banking 

Depesunent . . 


14 , 54, 88 ,000 


No es in circulation 


, 


1494 , 02 , 15, 000 


Assis 
A - Gold Coio and Bullion 1 

(a ) Hald In India , . 117,76 , 03 ,000 
(0 ) Held outside India 
Foreign Sccurides . . 412 ,51,91, 000 

Total of A . . . 
B . - Rupco Coln 


Tout Notes issued 


. 


. 


1508 ,57,03 , 000 


530 ,27,94 ,000 


123 , 25 ,65,000 


fodia 


Government of 

Ruper Securida 


. 


855 ,03 ,44 , 000 


Internal Bills of Exchange 

and other commercial 
paper . . . . 


TOTAL LIABILITIES 


1508 , 57 ,03 ,000 


TOTAL ASSBTS 


, 


. 


1508, 57,03,000 
- - - 


0 .1ced the 6th day of February , 1957 


K . G . AMBBGAOKAR , Governor . 


H . M . PATEL , Secy . 


- . - + 
THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 

OF INDIA 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


New Delhi , the 6th February 1957 


- - 


Unm 


No. 12 . - Exam ( 5 ) /57. - In pursuance of Regulation 23 
oť the Chartered Accountants Regulations, 1949 , the 
Council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India is pleased to direct that the Preliminary Exa 
mination under the said Regulations shall be held on 
the 14th 15th , 11th , 17th and 18th May 1957, the Inter 
mediate Examination on the 17th , 18th , 20th , 21st and 
22nd May 1957 , and the Final Examination on the 14th , 
15th , 16th , 17th , 18th , 20th 21st and 22nd May 1957 . 
The examinations will be held at the following centres 
provided that suſñcient number of candidates present 
themselves for the examinations at each of the 
centres : 

( 1 ) AHMEDABAD , ( 2 ) ALLAHABAD , ( 3 ) BANGA 
LORE , ( 4 ) BOMBAY, ( 5 ) CALCUTTA , ( 6 ) DELHI, 
( 7 ) ERNAKULAM ( 8 ) HYDERABAD (Dn ) , 
( 9 ) POONA and ( 10 ) MADRAS. 

Applications for admission to thesc Examinations 
are required to be made on the prescribed forms, copies 
of which may be obtained from the Secrctary to the 
Council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants ol 
India , Post Box No . 268 , New Delhi - 1. Each such 
application together with the necessary certificates and 
si Demand Draft payable at New Delhi and drawn in 
favour of the Secretary referred to above , for the 
Examination fre of Rs. 25 / - in the case of the Prelimi 
nary Examination , Rs, 50 / - in the case of the Intermc 
dilte Examination , and Rs. 75 / - for admission to both 
the groups or Rs. 50 / - for admission to one group only 
of the Final Examination , must be sent so as to reach 
the Secretary to the Councıl not later than the 15th 
March 1957. 


effect from the 1st April 1950 , owing to non -payment of 
fees, the names of the following gentlemen , namely : 

- - - - - - - - - --- 
Serial Mernber - Namc and Address 
No. ship 
No . 

- - - 
300 Shri Sitaram Rangaswamy Iyengar , No. 8 , 

Ganapathy Agraharam , Dindigul. 
430 Shri Kenneth Richard Fettes, C /o Ogilvy 

Gillanders and Co . Ltd ., 2 - Ą , East 
chcap , King William House , London , 

E . C . 3. 
487 Shri Vishwanath Chokra , 5 /67, Western 

Extension Arca , Karol Bagh , Now 

Delhi. 
659 Shri Hormazidiar Ferdoon Damkcvala , Inter 

nal Audit Officer , The Tata Iron and 

Steel & Co. Ltd ., Jamshedpur . 
1027 Shri Rakhaldas Som , 19 / C Raja Manindra 

Road , Paikpara , Calcutta - 37 . 
1043 Shri Sultanali Gulamhuscin Merchant , 

Jaffershermahomed Building , 4th Floor, 

Khadak , Bombay - y . 
1414 Shri Philip Cunningham Haworth , Clo 

British Titan Products Co. Ltd ., Cop 

pergate, York . (U .K .). 
1532 Shiri Chundulal Ramji Karia , Amroli House , 

3rd floor, Vithalbhai Patel Road , 

Bombay - 4 , 
3426 Shri Samarendra Majumdar, 15 , Jadu 

Bhattacharjee Lanc , 2nd Floor , Calcuttı - 26 , 
10 3513 Shri Ramesh Chander Malhotru , C / o Life 

Insurance Corporation of India , 
100 , The Mall, Ambala Cantt . 


New Delhi, the 11th February , 1957 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - - - 
E . V . SRINIVASAN , Secy . 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


NO. 4 - CA ( 1 ) / 17 / 16 . - In pursuance of Regulation 12 
of the Chartered Accountants Regulations. 1949 , it is 
hereby notllled that in exercise of the powers con 
ferred by clause ( c ) of sub - Section ( 1 ) of Section 
20 of the Chartered Accountants Act , 1949 , the Coun 
l il of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
has removed from the Register of Members , with 
effect from the 13th day of December , 1956 , owing to 
death , the name of Shri Papanasam Narayanaswami 
Swaminathan Alyar , " Krishna Bhavan " , Sandhurst 
Bridge, Girgaum , Bombay - 4 (Membership No. 61 ) . 

No , 4 -CA ( 1) / 1756 . - - In pursuance of Regulation 12 
of the Chartered Accountants Regulations, 1949, it is 
hereby notified that in exercisc of the powers con 
ferred by clause ( b ) of sub - Section ( 1 ) of Section 
20 of the Chartered Accountants Act , 1949 the Coun . 
cil of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
has removed from the Register of Members , with 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND CONSUMEK 

INDUSTRIES 

NOTICES 
New Delhi, the 4th February 1957 
No. CCI/ SPE / G / 57 / 85 - Whereas thcrs is reason to 
believe that lircnce No), A136221 / 56 / AU / JCC1 / Bom , 
dated the 9th October 1956 , valued at Rs 5 , 000 / - for 
import of News Print, from the Soft Currency Area 
except South Africa , granted by the Joint Chief Con 
troller of Imports und Exports Bombay, to M / s . 
Sandhya Prakashani , Kolhapur, was obtained on mis 
representation of facts , it is , therefore , hereby notified , 
that the Government of Indin in the Ministry of Com 
merce and Consumer Industrics in exercise of the 


54 


- - - 


- - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 16 , 1957 

[ PART 1 - Sec. 1 
- - - : - - - - - - - - -- -- - - -- - - - - - - - - - - 
power s specified in paragraph 9 of the Imports (Con 

No. CCI / SPE / 5 / 87 / 801, – Whereas there is reason to 
trol) Order, 1955 , datea the 7th December 1955 , propose believe that licence No. A 129549 / 56 / AU / JCCI / Bonn , 
to cancel the said licence No . A 136221 / 56 / AU / JCCI) dated the 23rd August 1958 valued at Rs. 5 , 000 / - for 
Bom , dated the yth October 1956, unless sufficient cause import of News Print from the Soft Currericy Area 
against this is lurnished to the Chief Controller of Im 

except South Africa , granted by the Joint Chief Con 
ports , Church Road ilutments , New Delhi within ten troller of Imports and Exports , Bombay to M / S . 
days of the date of issue of this notice by the said M / s. Şamajwadi Weekly , Bornbay was obtained on misrepre 
Sandhya Prakashan , Kolhapur, or any bank or any sertation of facts , it is , therefore hereby notificd that 
other party who may be interested in it, 

the Government of India in the Ministry of Coninerce 
Sanalıya 

and Consumer 
9 . In view of what is sialed above M / s . 

Industries in exercise of the power s 

Specifled in para 9 of the Imports ( Control Order , 
Prakashan , Kolhapur, or any bank or any other party 

1955 , dated the 7th December 1955 , propose to cancel 
who may be interested in the said licence No . A 136221/ 

the said licence No . A129549 / 56 / AU / JCCI/ Bom , dated 
56 / AU / JCCUI/ Bum ,, daled the 9th October 1956 , arc 

the 23rd August 1956 unless sullicient cause against 

further com 
hereby directed not to enter into any 

this is furnished to the Chief Controller of Imports , 
mitments against the said licence and return it immc 

Church Road Hutments , New Delhi, within ten days 
diately to the Chief Controller of Imports, New Delhi . 

of the date of issuc of this notice by the said M / S . 
No. CCI / SPE / 6 / 57 /871. - Whereas there is rcason to 

Samajwadi Weekly , Bombay or any bank or any other 
believe that licence No. A 136219 / 56 / AU / JCCI / Bom . 

party who may be interested in it . 
dated the 9th October 1956 , valued at Rs. 5 ,000 / - for 

2 . In view of what is stated above M / s . Samajwadi 
import of News Print from the Soft Currency Area 

Weekly , Bombay , or any bank or any other party who 
except South Africa granted by the Joint Chief Con 

may be interested in the said licence No. A120549 / 50 / 
troller of Imports and Exports , Bombay, to M / s, Chitra 

AU / JCCI / Bom . dated the 23rd August 1956 , are here 
yug, Kolhapur , was obtained on misrcpresentation of 

by directed not to cntcr into any further commitments 
facts , it is , therefore , hereby notifled , that the Govern 

against the said licence and return it immediately to 
ment of India in the Ministry of Commerce and Con 

the Chief Controller of Imports , New Delhi, 
sumer Industries , in exercise of the powers specificd in 
paragraph 9 of the Imports (Control) Order , 1955 , date 

No. CCI/ SPE / 5 /57 / 815 , — Whereas there is reason to 
the 7th December 1955 , propose to cancel the said believe that licence No. 129479 / 56 / AU / JCCI/ Bom , 
licence No . A 136219 / 56 / AU / JCCI/ Bom , dated the 9th dated the 10th August 1956 , valued at Rs. 5 ,000 / - for 
October 1950 , unless sufficient cause against this is import or News Print from the Soft Currency Area 
furnished to the Chiel Controller of Imports , Church exccpt South Africa , granted by the Joint Chief Con 
Road Hutinents , New Delhi, within ton days of the date troller of Imports and Exports , Bombay to M / s. Frce 
of issue of this notice by the said M / s , Chitrayug , Thought Wcekly , Bombay was obtained on misrepre 
Kolnapur, or any bank or any other party who may be Sentation of facts , it is, therefore hereby notifed , that 
interested in it . 

the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce 

and Consumer Industries in excrcisc of the powers 
2 . In view of what is stated above M / s . Chitrayug, 

specified in para 9 of the Imports (Control) Order , 1955 , 
Kolhapur, or any bank or any other party who may be 

dated the 7th December 1955 , propose to cancel the 
interested in the said licence No. A 130219 / 56 / AU / 

said licence No. A 129479 / 56 / AU / JCCI / Born . dated the 
JCCI/ Bom ., dated the 9th October 1956. are hereby 

10th August 1956 , unless sufficient cause against this 
directed not to enter into any further commitments 

is furnished to thc Chief Controller of Imports , Church 
against the said lifence and return it immediately to 

Road Hutments , New Delhi, within ten days of the 
the Chief Controller of Imports , New Delhi, 

ciate of issue of this notice by the said M / s . Free 
No. CCI/ SPE / 6 / 57 / 885. - Whereas there is reason to Thought Weekly , Bombay , or any bank or any other 
believe that licence No. A 136215 / 56 / AU / JCCI / Bom , party who may be interested in it . 
dated the 9th October 1956 , valued at Rs. 5 , 000 / - for 

2 . In view of what is stated above M / s . Free Thought 
import of News Print from the Soft Currency Area ex 

Weekly , Bombay , or any bank or any other party who 
cept South Africa, granted by the Joint Chieť Controller 

may be interested in the said licence No . A12 :1479 / 56 / 
of Imports and Exports, Bombay, to M / s . Kolhapur 

AU / ICCI/ Bom . dated the 10th August 1956 , are here 
Vritya Daily , Kolhapur was obtained on misrcpresenta 

or directed not to enter into any further culnmitinents 
tion of facts , it is , therefore hereby notified , that the 

gainst the said licence and return it immediately to 
Government of Indla in the Ministry of Commerce and 

the Chief Controller of Imports , New Delhi, 
Consumer Industries , in exercise of the powers specificd 
in paragraph 9 of the Imports ( Control) Order. 1955, 

No . CCI / SPE / 5 / 57 / 829 , - - Whercas there is reason to 
dated the 7th December 1955 , propose to cancel the saiu helicve that liccncc No. 129546 / 56 / AU / JCCI / Bom 
licence No. A 136215 / 56 /AU / JCCI/ Bom , dated the Oth dated the 23rd August 1956 , valued at Rs. 5 ,000 / - for 
October 1956 , unless sufficient cause against this is tur import of News Print from the Soft Currency Arca 
nished to the Chief Controller oſ Imports, Church Road excepi South Africa , granted by the Joint Chief Con 
Hutinents , New Delhi, within ten days of the date of troller of Imports and Exports , Bombay to M / s . The 
issue of this notice by the said M / s. Kolhapur Vritya Bombay Guardian , Bombay was obtained on misrepre 
Daily , Kolhapur, or any bank or any other party who 

sentation of facts , it is , therefore herehy notifled , that 
may be interested in it. 

the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce 

and Consumer Industries in excrcise of the powers 
2 . In view of what is stated above M / s . Kolhapur 

specifled in para 9 of the Imports (Control ) Order , 
Vritya Daily , Kolhapur, or any bank or any other party 1955 , dated The 7th December 1955 , proposc to cancel 
who may be interested in the said licence No . A 130215 / 

the said licence No. A129546 / 56 / AU / JCCI / Bom , dated 
56 / AU / JCCI / Bom , dated the 9th October 1956 , are 

the 23rd August 1956 unless sufficient cause against 
hereby directed not to enter into any further commit this is furnished to the Chief Controller of Iinports , 
mnents against the said licence and return it imme Church Road Hutments , New Delhi, within ten days 
diately to the Chief Controller of Imports, New Delhi. of the date of issue of this notice by the sai: M / s. The 
NO , CCI / SPE / 6 / 57/ 899 - Whereas their is reason 

Boinbay Guardian , Bombay, or any bank or any other 
to believe that licence No. 136210 / 58 / AU / ICCI/ purty who inay be interested in it. 
Bcm ., catect the 9th October 1956 , valued at Rs, 5000 / 
for import of News Print from the Soft Currency 

2 . In view of what is stated above M / s . Tlie Bombay 
Area except South Africa , granted by the Joint Chief Guardiani, Bombay , or any bank or any other party 
Controller of Imports & Exports , Bombay , to M / s . who may be interested in the said licence No . A129546 / 
Samaj Weekly , Kolhpur , was obtained on misrcpre 

56 | AU / ICCT / Bom , dated the 23rd August 1956 , Are 
sentation of facts , it is , therefore hereby notified , that hereby directed not to enter into any further cominit 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce ments against the said licence and return it immeciiate 
and Consumer Industries , in exercise of the powers ly to the Chief Controller of Imports, New Delhi, 
specified in para 9 of the Imports (Control) Order 

No. CCI / SPE / 5 / 57 / 843. — Wher as there is reason to 
1955 , dated the 7th December 1955 , proposc to can 
cel the said licence No. A136218 / 511/ A1 / JCCI/ Bum ,, 

Telieve that licence No . 129147 / 56 / AUISCCI / Bom , 
dated the 9th October 1950 , unless yumcient ( Huse 

rated the 21st July 1956 , valued at Rs. 5 , 000 / - for 

inport of News Print from the Soft Currency 
against this is furnished to the Chief Controller of 

Arca 

except South Africa , granted by the Joint Chief Con 
Imports , Church Road Hutments, New Delhi, within 
ten days of tho dale of issue of his notice by the 

iroller oſ Imports & Exports , Bomijay to M / s , Bombay 

Illustrated Weekly , Bombay was obtainca on misrepre 
said M / s Samaj Weekly , Kolhapur, or any bank ni 

sentation of facts , it is , therefore hereby totified , that 
any other party who may be interested in it . 

the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce 
2. In view of what is stated above M / s . Samaj ixrid Consumer Industries in excrcise of the powers 
Weekly , Kolhapur, or any bank or any other party Specifed ini para 9 of the Imports (Control) Order , 
who may be interested in the said licence No. A136218 / 1955 , dated the 7th December 1955 , propose to cancel 
50 / AU / JCCI / Bom ., datert the 9th October 1956 , arc the said liçence No . A129147 / 50 / AU / JCCI / Bom , dated 
hereby directed not to enter into any further com the 21st July 1956 , unless suficient cause against this 
mitments against the said licence and return it im 

is furnished to the Chief Controller of Imports , Church 
mediately to the Chief Controller of Imports, New Roud Hutments, New Delhi within ten days of the 
Delhi. 

date of issue of this notice by the said M / s . Bombay 


- - - - - --- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


PART I - Sec . 1 ] 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 16 , 1957 
- - ---- - - --- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - 

- - - = 
Illustrated Wcekly , Bombay or any bank or any other 

MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 
party who may be interested in it . 

RESOLUTIONS 
2 . In view of what is stated above M s . Bombay 
Illustrated Weekly , Bonbuy or any bank or any other 

New Delhi- 2 , the 5th February 1957 
party who may be interested in the said licence No . 

SUBJICI : All India Council for Secondary Education . 
A1291 17 / 56 / AU / JCCI/ Bom , dated the 21st July 1958 , 
are hereby directed not to enter into any further com 

No. 1 . 419 /57- D -6 ( RHE ) . - In partial modification of 
mitments against the said licence and selllil 11 imme the Guverrinent of India (Ministry of Education 
diately to the Clijer Controller oſ Imports , New Delhi. Resolution No . F . 18 - 2 / 55 - D - 1 ., dated the lst August , 

1955 , icgarding the setting up of the All India Council 
S . N . BILGRAMI, Jt. Secy . 

lo Sccundary Education , the President is pleased to 
- - - - - - 

urder that the ioliowing may be substituted for the 
- - - 

existing paragraph of the above mentioned Kesolu 
MINISTRY OF IICAVY INDUSTRIES 

tion : 

" 5 TENURE OF OFFICE 
RESOLUTION 

The tenure of office of all members — official and 
New Delhi, the 16th February 1957 

non - ufficial ( uther than ec-officiu members ) for the first 
NO. ME. Ind 12 ( 36 ) / 56 . -- With a view to drawing up 

time shall be 3 years reckoned from the first duy of 

the first meting of the Council and the terrn of office 
programmes tor the development of the Refractory In 

of all offical and non -official members subsequently 
dustry , with particular reference to the requirements 
or the Iron and Stuul Industry , on rational licx, it has 

110011nted Stall be three years reckoned Irom appro 
been decided to set up a Panel for the Refractory in 

puate anniversary of the day ; provided that a membor 
dustry. 

nominated under sub - clause ( c ), ( g ) and ( h ) above shall 

C ease to be a ineinber of the Council, 11 he creases to 
The Pancl will consist of- - 

be inember of the Central Advisory Board of Educa 

tion , the All India Council for Technical Education or 
1. Dr, SP, Varma, Development Officer, Develop the Inter -University Board as the case may be. All 

ment Wing , Ministry of Heavy Industries . . . . ( asual vacancies among the members ( other than 
Conver 

ex -oficio members ) shall be filled by the authority or 
2 . Shri K . S Raghupati, I.AS., Deputy Secretary , 

body who nominated the member whose place falls 
Ministry of Iron & Steel. 

vacant and the person appointed to a casual vacancy 

shall be a member of the Council for the residue of 
3 . Shri K . Vyasulu , Director ( Industry ) , Planning the term for which the person whosc place he fills 
Commission . 

would have been a member ." 
1 . Dr. H . K . Mitra Retractorics Engineer . The ONDER : — Ordered that a copy of the Resolution be 
Tata Iron & Steel Co. Lad , Jamshedpur 

coinmunicated to Ali members of tho All India Coun 

1 11 for Secondary Education , All State Governments 
5 . Mr. W . D . FIolton , The Refractory Makers and Union Territories , All Ministrics of the Govern 

Association , Chartered Bank Buildings , Cal ment of India , Inter - University Board , Senate House , 
cutta - 1. 

Triplicand , Madras , All India Council for Technical 
6 . Shri N . C . Roy, Director, Orissa coment Ltd ., 4 , 

Education ( 1 - 2 ) , All India Council for Sccondary Edu 
Dalhousie Square , Stephen Hunt, Culcutta — 1. 

cation , 4 / 19 , Asafali Road , Delhi, 
7 Dr. Atina Kamn , Dirceur, Central Glass and 

Ordered also that the Resolution be published in the 
Ceramic Researdh Iristitute , Calcutta , 

Gurette of India for general information , 
8 . Shri T . Gupti , Hind Lamps Lid ., Shikohabad . 

New Delhi, the 5th February 1957 
9 . Shri l . B . Adur, Assistant Munuger , Associated 

No 7 , 15- 15 / 36 - 1 . 2 . - In partial modification of the 
Cement Companies, Ltd , Kymore Cement 

Multy on Education Resolution No . F . 12 - 15 / 56 - D . 2 . , 
Works , P . O . Kymore ( Via Jukehi), Central 

Watch the 3rd October , 1956 , the Government of India 
Railway ( M . P . ) . 

Hulle vierided to nominate Shri G . L . Muhta Deputy 

Secrety to the Government of India , as representa 
2 . The functions of the Pancl would be: 

live oi the Ministry of Finance on the Central Social 
( 1 ) To study the technical working of the present 

Wcitare Board in place of Shri K . Sachidanandam 
units taking 100 account the raw 

prviously nominated . 

inaterials 
Vailable , equipını nt used and manufacturing 2 . Oidered that this Resolution he published in the 
mcthods adopted . 

Guette of India , 
( 11 ) To study the extent to which such of the units 

3 . Ordered also that a copy of this Resolution be 
ds are nut uulisme Capacity 10 the maximum communicater to all the Members of the Central 

extent be assisted lo otep up their production . Sucial Wellare Board , all the Muistries of the Govern 
( iii ) To examine the performance churcteristics of 

mcrit of India , all the State Governments , Planning 
WC PierciL lypes of ruiraclorius productand 

Comnussion , Cabinet Secretariat, Prime Minister s 
whelull I ( 1l ( y untoimi to specifications requiled 

Scoletariat , Lok Sabha Secretariat, Rajya Salsha Sec 
Dy thu duleraill consuming indu - lz le s and sus 

1t1Frint , the Department of Parliamentary Affairs , the 
All suiwie nodibica010119 WATU liccessary 

iccountant General, Central Revenue , on the Press 
will a view to tasuring that conmun standards 

luformation Bureau , 
and specifications are urawn up for 111 the units 

R . K . BHAN , Dy. Eul. Adviser , 
producing the same products, 2 .4 ., iron and 

steel. 
( 1 ) To prepare i celelllld and phased production 

RESOLUTION 
plan for the final live years on the başıs of 
cxisting capacity and additional Capacily licen 

New Delhi-2 , the 7th February 1957 
sed . 

No. F . 16 - 8 /53 -H2 . - Dated the 7th October , 1953 as 
( v ) To examine the present availab : Jity and assess amended from time to time upto 30th January 1957. 

Tuturo icquirenuncS OI technicul personncı ana 
stops to be taken to initiale training to techni 

NATIONAL ACADEMY OF ART, NEW DELHI. 
cal stail lor encent utilisation of the capacity , 

Whereas it is considered expedient to establish a 
increasing the production , and meeting the 

rational organisation to foster and coordinate activities 
specifications . 

in the spriere of visual and plastic arts and promote 
( vi) in the event of Surplus capacity being avail les by the cultural unity of the country , it is hereby 
able , to [ ( coinnend the steps that should be 

resolvere as follows : -- 
Lunen Tor Creatmg an export market. 

A National Academy of Art, to be called " Lalit Kala 
Ordered that a copy of the above Resolution de l om Akadami" shall be established . 
municated to all the Siate Governments , all the vinis 

I , IICody arters - - The hearlquarters of the Akadami 
trics of the Government o1 Inchi , Cabinet Sourciariai, 

sband le at New Delhi, but they may be shifted to an 
Prime Minister s Secretariat, and the Planning Com 

other placc with the consent of four-Afths of the mem 
mission , 

liers out the Akadami. 
Ordered also that it be published in the Gazette of 

3 Oryantuntud Futions. — ( a ) The Akademi 
India . 

shull be a ( Oporate lody , shall have a perpetual seal 
B B SAKSENA , Joint Secy and may suo and be sued in its corporate name. 


36 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 16 , 1937 


[ PART I- SEC . 1 


= 


= 


8 . Secretari ( 1) The Secretary shall be the principal 
executive othcer of the Akadami and shall be appointed 
by the Exccutive Board for such period and on such 
terms and conditions as the Executive Board may de 
termine; 

Provided that the first Secretary shall be appointed 
by the Government of India for a period not exceeding 
two years on such terms and conditions as the Govern 
ment may specify : 

( 11 ) The Secretary shall be cx -offico Secretary of the 
General Council, the Executive Board , the Finance 
Committec and all other Standing Committees which 
may be set up by the General Council or the Executive 
Board but shall not be deemed to be a member of any 
of these authorities . 
(iii ) It shall be the duty of the Secretary -- 
(a ) to he the custodian of the records and such 

other property of the Akadaml as the Execil 

tive Board may commit to his charge ; 
( b ) to conduct the official correspondence on behalf 

of the authorities of the Akadami; 
( c ) to issue all notices convening meetings of the 

authorities of the Akadami and of all commit 

tees appointed by any of those authorities ; 
( d ) to kcep the minutes of all meetings of the 

authorities of the Akadami and of all commit 

tees appointed by any of those authorities ; and 
( e ) to maintain the accounts of the Akadami under 

the supervision of the Treasurer , 


9 . Authorities of the Akudami. — The following shall 
be the authorities of the Akadami: - 

( a ) The Gencral Council ; 
(b ) The Executive Board ; 
(c ) The Finance Committee ; and 
( d ) Any other Standing Committee or Committees 

which the General Council or the Executive 
Board may set up for discharging any one or 
more of their functions. 


(b ) It shall have the following powers and functions , 
namely : 
( 1 ) To encourage and promote study and research 

in the fleld of painting , sculpture and archi 

tecture and applied arts; 
(II ) to co - ordinate the activities of the regional or 

State Academies ; 
( fil) to promote co -operation among artists and art 

associations and to encourage the establish 

ment and development of such associations. 
(iv ) to encourage the setting up of institutions to 

provide training and research in various fields 

of art ; 
(v ) to encourage , where necessary, the establish 

ment of regional Art Centres ; 
( vi) to encourage the exchango of ideas between 

various schools of art by organising con 
ferences, seminars , exhibitions on an all India 
basis and to encourage each conferences ctc. 

on a regional basis also ; 
( vii ) to publish and to promote publication of litera 

ture on Art , including monographs, journals , 

art albums, etc .; 
( vili) to establish and maintain a library , catering to 

the necds of various organisations and covering 

both Indian and foreign Art , 
( ix ) to give recognition and to otherwise assist app 

reved Art associations; 
( x ) To foster cultural contacts within the country 

and also with other countries, throug Art ex 
hibitions, cxchange of personnel and Art ob 

jects , etc .; 
( xi) to award scholarships and prizes to deserving 

artists ; 
( xii ) to accord recognition to artists for outstanding 

achievements ; 
( xili) to encourage and foster thc revival and de 

velopment of Folk Art . 
( xiv ) to promote the study of traditional art anci 

craft techniques and to organise regional sur 
veys of and to cncourage surviving indigenous 

oriftsmen , painters and sculptors; 
(xv ) in furtherance of its objects and work , to pur 

( huse land , own property of all kinds and to 
maintain , sell, mortgage or otherwise dispose 

of the same; and 
( xvi) to do all such other acts and things, whether 

incidental to the powers aforesaid or not, AS 

may be required in order to further its objects . 
4 . Officers of the Akadami. - - The following shall be 
the officers of the Akadami, namely : 

(i) Chuirman ; 
(ii) Vice -Chairman ; 
( 111 ) Treasurer ; and 
( iv ) Secretary . 
5 . Chairnian , - The Chairman shall be appointed by 
the President of India and shall hold olice for a term 
of five ycars . 

6 . Vice- Chairman . - ( i ) The Vicc -Chairman shall be 
elected by the General Counal of the Akadami from 
among its members and shall holci Office for five years; 

( li) The Vice -Chairman shall, in the hsence of the 
Chairman , for whatever reason , exercise all the func. 
tions and powers of the Chairman). 

7. Treasurer .--- (1) The Treasurer shall be appointed 
by the Government of India for such period as the 
latter may determine. 
(ii ) The Treasurer shall 
( a ) subject to the control of the Executive Board 

of the Akadami, manage the property and 
investments of the Akadami and be responsible 
for the preparation of the annual estimates 
and statements of Accounts and lor their pre 
sentation to the Executive Board and the 

General Council: 
(b ) subjcct to the powers of the Executive Board , 

be responsible for the utilization of all moneys 
for the purpose for whirh they are granted or 

allotted , 
( c) sign all contrarts made on behall of the Aka 

dami; and 
( d ) exercise such other powers as may be assigned 

to him by the Executive Board . 
(11) Thc receipt of the Treasurer or of the person or 
persons duly juthorised in this behalf by the Exerutive 
Board for any money paid into the Akadami shall be 
sufficient discharge for the same, 


10 . General Council. - - The General Council shall con 
Wst of the following, namely : 

(i ) Chairman , 
(it) Treasurer 
(iii) Director, National Museum or, if there is no 

Director , such officer of the National Museum 
as may he nominated by the Government of 

Indla lor that purpose . 
(Iv ) Curator of the National Gallery of Modern 

Art. 
( v ) Five persons nominated by the Government of 

India . 
(vi) One person nominated by each State Govern 

ment. 
(vii ) Fifteen representatives elected in accordance 

with the rules to be framed by thç Akadami, 
hy Art organisations and institutions recox 

nised by the Akadami; 
Provided that out of the first group so elected one 

third shall retire after two years and another 
one- third after four years and the remaining 
one - third after the fifth year , the persons so 
to retire to be selected by drawing lots accord 
ing to the procedure to be decided by the 

General Council ; 
Provided further that members who thus retice 

shall be eligible for re - election , 
( v [ii) Nine eminent Indian artists to be clected in 

their individual capacity by the General Coun 

cll : 
Proyided that for the first term they shall be 

appointed by the Government of India in 

consultation with the State Governments : 
Providei further that out of the Arst group so 

appointed onc-third shall retire after two 
years and another one- third after four years 
and the remaining one -third after the fifth 
year, the persons so to retire to be selected by 
drawing lots according to the procedure to be 

lald down by the General Council : 
Provided further that members who thus retir » 

shall be cligible for re - election . 
( ix ) Two representatives each of the Sangeet 

Natak Akadami and the Sahitya Akadami. 


PART I - Sec . 1 ] 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 16 , 1957 
- - - 

- 

- = 
11. Functions of the General Council. — The Gencral 

(h ) subject to the budgetary limits and the policy 
Council shall have the following functions and powers . 

directive, if any, of the General Council to 
0722 . — 

grant Anancial assistance to organisaticns and 

institutions recognised by the Akadami; 
( a ) To elect a Vice -Chairman ; 

( 1 ) to necinate a member of the Finance Com 
( b ) to elect members of the Excutive Board in 

mittee in accordance with item (iv ) of para 
uccordance with paragraph 13 ( v ) and to pres 

graph 15 of this Resolution : 
cribe the rules of procedure of the Exccutive 

u ) to nominate a person or persons to represent 
Board ; 

the Akadami in national and international 
( c ) to elect members of the Finance Committee in 

conferences or organisations; and 
accordance with paragraph 15 ( iil) and to 
prescribe the rules of procedure of the Finance 

(lc ) to appoint the Secretary of the Akadamni and 
Committee ; 

other members of the start except those the 

power to appoint whom is generally or speci 
( d ) to approve the annual budget of the Akadami 

fically delegated by it to the Chairinan or the 
drawn up by the Executive Board ; 

Secretary or to any other officer or committee. 
( c ) to appoint auditors unless Governinent of India 

15 . Finance Committee. — The Finance Committee 
arranges for the audit through the Comptrol 
ler and Auditor -General ; 

shall rons st of the following members , namely : 
( f ) (i) to elect on the recommendation of the 

(i) Thc Trcasurer , who will be the Chairman of the 
Executive Board outstanding artists as Fellows 

Committee: 
of the Akadami by a majority of at least three 

( ) One nominee of the Government of India not 
fourths of the members present and voting 

necessarily from among the members of the 
provided that the number of Fellows shall at 

General Council ; 
no time exceed 30 

(ili ) Two roprescntatives of the General Council ; 
(ii ) to clect as Associate Fellows of the Akadamni 

and 
on the recommendation of the Executive Board 
and by a majority of at least three- fourtlis of 

( iv ) Onc nominee of the Executive Board not 

necessarily from among the members of the 
the members present and voting surh persons 
74 have rendered distinguished servica 10 

General Council. 
Indian Art; 

16 functions of the Finance Committee . - The Finance 
Provided that the number of such Associate Committee shall consider the budget estimates of the 

Fellows shall at no time cxcecd sixty , of whom Akarinmi, make recommendations thereon to the Exe 

not more than five may he other than Indians. ( utive Board and prescribe the total limits for expendi 
( g ) to grant recognition on the recommendation of 

ture within allnaticial year . 
the Executive Board to organisationy and 

17 General (1) Any rule made or derision taken by 
institutions rendering usetul service to Art ; 

The General Council or by any authority of the Aka 
( h ) to consider and approve programmes propose ramt except the authority acts in accordance with its 
by the Executive Board : 

powers and functions as defined in this constitution . 
( 1) to frame its regulations, bye - laws and rules of 

may be em nded or set aside by the General Council. 
procedure ; and 

( 11) The General Council may, by a majority of not 
( i) to do any other such acts as may be necessary 

less than three -fourths of the members present and 
for th - maintenance of the Organisation and 

voting request the Government of India to amend this 

constitution in such manner as the General Council 
performance of the functions of the Akadamni 

inay decide 
12 . Meetings of the General Council. — The General 
Council shall ordinarily meet once every year al a 

ORDER 
place and on a date in October to be fixed by the 

Ordered that a ropy of this Resolution be communi 
Chairman A special mecting may be called at any 

catel to all State Governments ( for Information and 
other time by the Chairman or by the Executive Board 

die publicity ) 
either on its own initiative or at the request of not less 
than two- thirds of the whole number of members of 

Ordered also that the Resolution be published in the 
the General Council . 

Gazette of India for general information , 
13 Executive Board . - The Executive Board shall 

ASHFAQUE HUSAIN , Jt. Secy . 
consist of the following members, namely : 

- - 
(i) Chairman of the General Council ; 

MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS (RAILWAY BOARD ) 
(ii ) Vice - Chairman of the General Council ; 

New Dclhi, the 7th February 1957 
( 111) Trcasurer; 
( iv ) Three members nominated by the Govern 

No . 56 / W / 160 / 23. — It is hereby notified for general 
ment of India from among the ’r nominees on 

inforination that the Government Inspector of Railways 
the General Council; and 

Bangalore having inspected the Emakulam South -Kot 

tayam Section of Ernakulam - quilon Railway, Southern 
( v ) Nine members to be elected by the Generai Railway , a length of 37 - 23 miles on the Metre gaugc , 
Council. 

authorised its opening for the public carriage of pas 
14 Functions of the Efecutive Board . - - The Exe . 

scngers with effect from 17 - 10 - 56 . 
cutive Board shall have the following functions and 
powers, namely : 

New Delhi, the 18th February , 1957 
( a ) to exercise the Executive authority of the 

No. E (GR ) 56RR7- 1 , - - The following Rules and Regu 
Akadami subject to the supervision of the lations for recruitment to the Mechanical Engineering 
General Council ; 

and Transportation ( Power ) Department of the Supe 
( h ) to be responsible for the supervision and con 

rior Revenue Establishment of the Indian Railways are 

published for general information : 
trol of the work of the Akadaml and its ollice ; 
( c) to prepare the programmes of the Akadami 

RULES 
for the consideration and approval of the 
General Council; 

PART 1 - -GENERAL 
(d ) to draw up the annual budget of the Akadami. 
subject to the total Ananciaj limits prescribed 

( METHOD OF RECRUITMENT) 
by the Finance Committce, to be submitted for 

1 . These Rules may be called the Mechanical Engi 
the approval of the General Council; 

neering and Trunsportation (Power ) Department of 
( e ) to prepare the annual report and accounts of the Superior Revenuc Establishment of Indian Rail. 

the Akadami for the consideration of the Gene ways Recruitment Rules. 
ral Council; 

2 . For the purpose of these Rules 
( 1) subject to the provision of item (f) of paragraph 
11 of this Resolution , to consider and propose 

( a ) " Government" means the Government of 
to the General Council names of eminent 

India . 
Artists and others for clection as follows or 

( b ) " The Commission " means the Union Public 
Associate Fellows of the Akadaini: 

Service Commission , 
( g ) to consider and propose to the General Coun 

( C ) " The Service" menns service in the Mechanical 
cij names of important Art organisations and 

Engineering and Transportation ( Power ) 
Institutions deserying recognition from the 

Department of the Superior Revenue Estab 
Akadami; 

lishment of Indian Railways . 


- 


- 


- - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 18 , 1957 

[ Part I - Sec . 1 
- - - - - - - - --- - - - - - - - - -- - - -- - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - 
( d ) " Scheduled Castes" means any caste s, coin 

( ill ) Non -citizens who entered service under the 
munities, races , sects, ete , notified as such 

Government of India before , the commence 
hy the President of India ( See Appendix IV ). 

ment of the Constitution , 12., 26th January 
( e ) " Scheduled Tribes" means any castes , coni. 

1950 and who have continued in such service 
munities, races, Spets , etc , notified as sucli ly 

sinr e then . Any such person who re - entered , 
the President of India ( Sre Appendix V ) 

Or may re - enter such service with a break 

after the 26th January 1950 will however 
3 . The Servire shall be recruited by the following 

require certificates of eligibility in the usual 
methods 

wy. 
(a ) By appointincnt of candidates as Special Clus NOTE 3 . - A candidate in whose case a certificate of 
Apprentices on the results of an examin 

eligibillty is neressary muy be ailinitted to the exami 
tion to be held in India in accordance with 

nation and he may also be provisionally appointed 
Part II of these Rules 

subjurt to the necessary certificate being eventually 

issue in his favour by Government. 
( b ) By competitive evaininition held in Irudia in 

10 ( a ) No male candidate who has more than one 
accordance with Part III of these Rulcs 

wife living shall be eligible for appointment as Special 
( c ) By promotion of spçcially qualifleri officers CI:155 Railway Apprentire or the results of this exami 
of the Class II Service , including officiating 

nition unless the Government of India after being 
officers in the Mechanical Engineering and satisfied that there are special grounds for doing so , 
Transportation ( Powe r ) Department. 

exempt him from the operation of this rule 
( d ) By occasional admission of other qualified 

( b ) No female candidate who has married a person 

havuig already a wife living hall be vigilile for ap 
persons appointed by the President in con 

pointinent as a Spallal Class Railway Apprentice on 
sultation with the Commission . 

the results of this examination unless the Government 
NOTE. Candidates selected as Special Class Ap 

of India after being satisfied that there are special 
prentices under Rule 3 ( a ) shall be required to un 

grounds for doing so , txempt her from the operation 
dergo practical and throretical training For the period of this rule . 
and courses of training and the terms and conditions 

11, A candidate must have attained the age of 16 
of apprenticeship see Appendix I 

yours anal musi nut huve attained the age of 19 years 

on the 3rd day of August 1956 
4 Subject to the provisions of Rule 3 Government 
Shall determine the method or methods to be NOTE. — The upper age limit will be relaxable 
employer for the purpose of filling any particular 

I upto a maximum of live ycars if a candidate 
vacancies , or such vacancies its may require to be filled 

belongs 10 a Scheduler Caste or a Scheduled 
during any particular period and the nginber of ( +11 

Tribe ; 
didates to be recruited by ruch method . 

( li ) upto a maximum of thirt c years if a candidate 
5 Appointments to the Service made othrrwise than 

15 a buna finto displared person from Pakistan 
by promotion will he subject to orders issued from 

or from the unliberated areas of Jammu and 
time to time by the Ministry of Honna Alauris rogird 

Kashmir. This connextion will not, however , 
ing special representation in the Services for specie 

bri aitossible to a lidate who has alre,idy 
sections of the people , 

appearer at three previous examinatloris / 

seleritinis ; 
PART II 

( vii ) uptu a max loum of cight yea s if a candi 

date D - longs to a Schoriuled Caste or a Sche 
QUALII ICATIONS OF CANDIDATFS AND METIIODS OF SELEC 

quien Trives and is also a bona fide displaced 
TION OF Sprcial CIASS Al l RENTICES RECRUITED) 

person from Pakistan or from the unliberated 
UNDIR RULE 3 ( a ) 

areas of Jammu and Kashmir . This conces 
6 . An examination for selection of candidates for 

sion will not , however , he adınissible to a 
appointinents Special Class apprentices in the 

candidate who has already appeared at eight 
Mechanical Engineering & Transportation ( Power ) 

previous examinations, selections. 
Department of llie Superior Revenue Establishment of 

( iv ) uptn a Inaximum of three years if a candidate 
Indian Railways shall be held in India at such times 

belongs to the former French Settlements which 
and places as may be prescribed in the Notice issued 

have now become part of India and has been 
by the Commission , Every such notice will when 

receiving his cduration through the medium of 
possible announce the numher of vacancies to be filled 

French 
on the result of the examination . 

( v ) upto a maximum of four years if a cundidate 
7 . The maximum number of candidates to he admit 

is a resident of the Andaman and Nicobar 
ted to the examination may at the discretion of the 

Islands , 
Commission be limited to such number as the Com 

Save as provided above, the age limits prescribed 
mission may decide. If a limit is iniposed and the 

can in 10 case be relaxed 
number of candidates exceeds that limit, the Union 
Public Service Commission shall select from among the Candidates from the former French Settlements will 
applicants those who shall he admitted to the exami he eligible for this age concession for admission to any 
nation and shall have regard in so doing to the suita 

xamination which may be held up to the end of 1961. 
bility of the applicants for appointment as Special Class 
Apprentices, 

12 A candidate 

( a ) must bave passed in the Arst or second divi 
8 . A candidate for admission to the examination 

sion the Intermediate Examination of a Uni 
niust apply before such date , in such form and in such 

versity or Board approved by the Government 
manner as may be prescribed by the Commission , 

of India , with Mathematics and at lcast one 
9 . A candidate must be either - - 

of the subjects Physics and Chemistry as sub 

jects of the examination 
(i ) a citizen of India , or 

Graduates with Mathematics and at least one of 
(ii) a subject of Sikkim , or 

the subjects Physics and Chemistry as their 

degrec subjects may also apply ; or 
( ill ) a person who has migrated from areas which 

( b ) must have passçd the Pre - engineering Exa 
now form Pakistan or from the unliberated 

mination of the Delhi Polytechnic or the 
areas of Jammu and Kashmir with thr inten 

Saugar Unlversity in the list or second divi 
ţion of permanently settling in India , or 

sion ; or 
( iv ) a subject of Nepal or of a Portuguese or 

(c ) must have passed the Arst year cxamination 
a former French possession in India . 

under the three -year degree course ot the Delhi 

University with Mathematics and at least one 
NOTE 1. - - The appointment of candidates in categories 

of the subjects Plıysics and Chemistry as sub 
( iii ) and ( iv ) above will be subject to the issue of 

jects of the examination and must have been 
certificates of eligibility in their favour by the Gov 

promoted to the second year provided that 
ernment of India . Certificates of cligibility will not, 

before joining the degree course he passed the 
however, be necessary in the case of candidates 

Higher Secondary Examination or the Matri 
belonging to any of the following categories 

pulation or equivalent exainlnation in the Arst 
( i ) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan 

or second division or obtained the Cambridge 
before 19th July , 1948 and have ordinarily 

School Certifi ale with at least five credits in 
been resident in India since then . 

cluding credits in Mathematics and at least in 
( ii ) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan 

one of the subjects Physion and Chemistry 
after 18th July , 1948 but before 30th Septem 

NOTE 1. - Candidates who are not awarded any specific 
ber, 1948 and got themselves registered as division by the University / Board either in their Inter 
citizens within the time allowed . 

mediate or any other examination mentioned above , 


PART 1 - Sec . 1 } 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 16 , 1957 


1 . 


- 


ES 


PART III 
RECRUITMENT BY COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION 

(Will be published later ) 

APPENDIX I 


will be considered educationally eligible provided 
their aggregate of marks falls within the range of 
marks for first or second division as prescribed by the 
University Board concerned . 

NOTE 2 . - Candidates who have appeared at an exa 
mination the passing of which would render them 
eligible to appear at the examination but have not 
been informed of the result, may apply for admission 
to the examination . Candidates who intend to appear 
at such a qualifying examination may also apply pro 
vided that the qualifying examination is completed 
before the commencement of this examination . Their 
application will be accepted provisionally and they 
will be required to furnish proof of having passed the 
examination not later than the last week of September, 
1957. 


Provided that in exceptional cases the Commission 
may treat as a qualified candidate , a candidate who , 
though he has not all or any of the qualifications pres 
cribed in this rule , has passed examinations conducted 
by other institutions of a standard which in the opinion 
of the Commission justifies his admission to the exami 
nation 

13 . A candidate must be in good mental and bodily 
health and free from any physical detect likely to 
interfere with the discharge of his duties as an officer 
of the Service, 

A candidate who ( after such physical examination 
as Government or the appointing authority , as the case 
may be, may prescribe ) , is found not to satisfy those 
requirements will not be appointed . 

14 . A candidate must satisfy the Commission that he 
is suitable in all respects for employment in the Rail 
way Services . 

15 . No candidate shall be admitted to the examina 
tion unless he holds a certificate of admission from the 
Union Public Service Commission , 

The decision of the Commission as to the eligibility 
or otherwise of a candidate for admission to the exami 
nation shall be flaal. 

16 . A candidate found guilty of impersonation or of 
submitting fabricated documents or documents which 
have been tampered with or of making statements 
which are incorrect or false or suppressing material 
information or of using or attempting to use unfair 
means in the examination hall or otherwise resorting 
to any other irregular or improper means for obtaining 
admission to the examination may, in addition to 
rendering himself liable to a criminal prosecution , be 
debarred either permanently or for a specified period : 
( a ) by the Commission from admission to any 

examination or appearance at any interview 
held by the Commission for selection of candi 

dates ; and 
( b ) by the Central Government from employment 

under the Government. 
17 . No recommendations except those invited in the 
application form will be taken into consideration . Any 
attempt on the part of a candidate to obtain support 
for his candidature by other means may disqualify him 
for appointment, 

18. The examination will be conducted by the Com 
mission in the manner prescribed in Appendix II to 
these Rules . 


CONDITIONS OF APPRENTICESHIP FOR SPECIAL CLASS 

APPRENTICES SELECTED UNDER REGULATION 3 ( a ) IN 

PART I OF THE REGULATIONS. 
The terms and conditions of Apprenticeship will 
be as set out in the form of agreement prescribed vide 
Form No. 7 of Appendix XXIV of the State Railway 
Establishment Code Volume I, brief particulars of 
which are given below . 

1 . A candidate selected for appointment as a Special 
Class Apprentice shall execute an agreement binding 
himself and one surety jointly and severally to re 
fund in the event of his falling to complete training 
and probation to the satisfaction of the Central Gov 
ernment any inoneys paid to him oonsequent on his 
appointment as Apprentice and Probationer . 

The apprentices will be liable to undergo practical 
and theoretical training for 6 years in the first instance 
under an indenture binding them to serve on the 
Indian Railways on the completion of their training 
If their services are required . The continuance of ap 
prentireship from year to year will depend on satis 
factory reports being received from the authorities 
under whom the apprentices may be working. If at 
any time during his apprenticeship , any apprentice 
does not satisfy the superior authorities that he is 
making good progress , he will be liable to be dis 
charged from the apprenticeship . 

NOTE .-- The Government of India may at their dis 
cretion alter or modify the periods and courses of 
training 

2 . The practical and theoretical training referred to 
above will be given in a railway workshop for the 
first four years of their apprenticeship . The appren 
tices will be granted a stipend at Rs. 100 per mensem 
during the first three years and Rs. 125 per mensem 
in the fourth year. During the first three years the 
apprentices will be required to undergo training in 
four periods of nine months each , six months in the 
shops followed by three months in the technical school. 
and will be examined at the end of each session , If 
unsuccessful at any of these examinations, they will 
be discharged from their apprenticeship . During the 
fourth year they will undergo only practical training 
and prepare for the examination for Associate Mem 
bership of the Ingtitute of Civil or Mechanical 
Engineers , 

NOTE . - Except as provided for in Ruic 5 below or in 
cases of discharge or dismissal due to insubordination , 
intemperance or other misconduct or breach of agree 
ment, a week s notice of discharge from apprentice 
ship will be given , 


19 . Candidates must pay the 
Appendix III . 


fees 


prescrlbed 


In 


No claim for a refund of any of these fees will ordi 
narily be entertained except to the extent stated in 
that Appendix nor can they be held in reserve for any 
examination or selection . 


3 . ( a ) Before the completion of the 4th year of train 
ing referred to in Rule 2 above, the apprentices will 
be listed in order of merit on the results of the 
examination held and the reports on the apprentices 
received during the period of apprenticeship . Appren 
tices to the number of vacancies for which the selec 
tion was made in the Arst instance will be selected in 
direct order of mcrit for further training for two years 
(See Rule 4 below ) provided they have attained the 
qualifying standard ; provided further that if any 
vacancies are reserved for any particular community / 
communities the apprentices belonging to those com 
munities will be selected on the basis of their position 
in the order of merit to the extent necessary subject 
to their attaining the qualifying standard . 

( b ) All those that are not selected for further train 
Ing will be discharged . 

NOTE . — An apprentice will be considered to have 
obtained the qualifying standard if he obtains a mini 
mum of 50 per cent. marks in the aggregate in all 
the examinations held during the 4 years of his train 
ing including the marks for the reports of the Princl 
pal. Technical School , and of the Deputy Chief Mecha 
nical Engineer , provided that in each of the 4 years 
he has obtained a minimum of 45 per cent, marks in 
the aggregate and a minimum of 40 per cent. marks in 
any one subject. 


20 . Candidates who quality at the written examina 
tion may at the discretion of the Commission be sub 
jected to another simple qualifying test . Only those 
candidates who qualify at this test will be interviewed . 


21. After every examination the Commission shall 
prepare a list of selected candidates in order of merit, 
provided that the candidates are in the opinion of the 
Commission suitable for appointment as Special Class 
Apprentices. Vacancies shall be Alled in strict order 
of merit from the list prepared by the Commission , 
subject to the orders issued from time to time by the 
Ministry of Home Affairs regarding special represen 
tation for specific sections of the people and provided 
that the Government of India are satisfied that such 
candidates are in all respects suitable for employment 
in the Railway Service . 


4 . Apprentices put on further training under Rule 3 
will be sent to one or more of the Indian Railways 
for undergoing a further period of training for two 
years in accordance with the syllabus prescribed for 
the purpose as modified from time to time. The ap 
prentices may be required to attend after working 


60 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 16 , 1957 


[PART 1-- SEC. 1 


hours , a technical college or special lectures on Engi 
neering subjects. They will have to attend the pres 
cribed courses at the Baroda Staff College also during 
this period and to qualify therein . The apprentices 
will be given oral test at the end of each phase of 
training during these two years of training and at the 
end of the second year , that is at the end of the 
gixth year of apprenticeship , they will be given 
a written test to be conducted jointly by the Chief 
Mechanical Engineer and the Chief Operating Super 
intendent of the Rallway to which they are posted on 
the training received by the apprentices during this 
period . The qualifying marks at this test will be 50 
per cent. Before completion of the training, the ap 
prentices must also qualify for Associate Membership 
of the Institution of Civil or Mechanical Engineers, 
Failure to acquire this qualification within the pres 
cribed period of training of six years will render them 
liable to termination of their services . During this 
period of training the apprentices will be paid a sti 
pend of Rs. 200 per mensem . 


5. Unsuccessful apprentices will be discharged from 
their apprenticeship , one month s notice of discharge 
being given along with the intimation that the ap . 
prentice has been unsuccessful. 


confirmed in the Mechanical Engineering and Trans 
portation (Power ) Department , provided that they are 
considered fit for permanent appointment. If they 
fall to pass the departmental examination within the 
two ycars of their probationary period their incre 
ments from Rs. 350 to Rs. 380 will be stopped . In 
cases where the probationary period has to be extend 
ed for failing to pass all the departmental exami 
nations within the stipulated period , on their passing 
the departmental examinations and being confirmed 
after expiry of the extended period of probation , the 
drawal of the first and subsequent increments will be 
regulated by rules and orders in force from time to 
time. On confirmation their agreement will be con 
tinued subject to their service being terminable on six 
months notice on either side. 

Probationers will also have to undergo training at 
the Railway Staff College, Baroda in 2 phases, the 
first phase during the period of 2 years training and 
the second phase during the period when they hold 
working posts and to qualify in the tests held in the 
College. Probationers will be allowed more than one 
chance to pass the training course, but will not be 
canfirmed till they have passed it, their period of train 
ing and / or probation being correspondingly extended . 

NOTE . — The period of training and the period of pro 
bation against a working post ingy be modified at the 
discretion of Government. If the period of training 
is extended in any case due to the training not having 
been completed satisfactorily , the total period of pro 
bation will be correspondingly extended . 

2 . OMcers will be required to pass a language exa . 
mination in Hindi in Devanagari script by the lower 
standard modified to suit the requirements of the 
Railways before they can be confirmed or before their 
pay can be raised from Rs. 350 p .m . to Rs. 380 p .m . 
in the time scale during the period of probation , 
Omrers who can speak Hindi and read and write it 
may be exempted by the General Manager / Chief Ad 
ministrative Officer from passing the language exami 
nation , Failure to pass the examination within the 
probationary period involves ljability to removal from 
service. 


6 . Successful apprentices will be appointed on pro 
bation for three years on a commencing pay of Rs. 350 
p . m . and posted to the Mechanical Engineering and 
Transportation ( Power ) Department of the Indian 
Railways for the period of their probation . During 
the probationary period they will have to attend a 
second phase of training in the Railway Staff College , 
Baroda and to quality in the tests held in the College. 
Before the end of the second year of probation , they 
will be required to undergo a departmental examina 
tion which will include Accounting and Estimating, 
General and Subsidiary Rules , Factories Act, Work 
men s Compensation Act, ability to handle labour and 
general application to work or works on which each 
officer is engaged while on probation . If they fail to 
pass the departmental examination within the second 
year of the probationary period increment from 
Rs. 350 to Rs. 380 will be stopped . In cases where 
probationary period has to be extended for failing to 
pass all departmental examinations within the sti 
pulated period , on their passing the departmental exa . 
minations, the drawal of the first and subsequent incre 
ments will be regulated by rules and orders in force 
from time to time. 

7. The appointment and pay as a probationer will 
commence from ( a ) the date of completion of six 
yearg of apprenticeship or ( b ) the actual date of com 
pletion of training , whichever is later , Service for in 
crement will, subject to paragraph six above, count 
from the date of appointment as probationer , 

NOTE 1 . — The retention in service of the probationers 
and the grant of annual increments are subject to 
satisfactory reports on their work being received at 
the end of each year of probation . 

NOTE 2 - Service as probationer may be terminated 
on 3 months notice on either side. 

8 . Particulars as to pay and general conditions of 
service prescribed for officers in the Mechanical Engi 
neering and Transportation ( Power ) Department of 
the Superior Revenue Establishment of Indian Rall 
ways will be found in Appendix I - A . 


NOTE . — Some krowledge of Hindi prior to entry 
Into gervice would be of advantage in passing the 
departmental examination , 


3 . Officers of the Mechanical Engineering and Trans 
portation ( Power ) Department recruited under these 
regulations will not be entitled to pension on quittmg 
the service, but will be eligible throughout their 
service for the benefits of the State Railway Pro 
vident Fund , to which they will be required to sub 
scribe and by the rules of which Fund they will be 
required to abide. 


4 . Pay will commence from the date of joining ser 
vice as a probationer . Service for increments will 
also count from the same date subject to paragraph 1 
above. Particulars as to pay contained in para 
graph 8 of this Appendix 


5 . Officers recruited under these regulations shall be 
eligible for leave in accordance with the rules for the 
time being in force applicable to officers of Indian 
Railways . 


6 . Officers will ordinarily be employed throughout 
their service on the Railways to which they may be 
posted on first appointment and will have no claim , 
as a matter of right, to transfer to some other Rail 
way but the Government of India reserve the right to 
transfer such officers, in the exigencies of service to 
any other Railway or project in or out of India . Om 
cers will be liable to serve in the Stores Department 
of Indian Railways if and when called upon to do so . 


APPENDIX I- A 
PARTICULARS REGARDING THE MECHANICAL ENGINEERING 

AND TRANSPORTATION ( POWER ) DEPARTMENT OF THE 
SUPERIOR REVENUE ESTABLISHMENT OF INDIAN RAIL 
WAYS , 
1. A candidate selected under Rule 3 (b ) shall on 
appointment as a probationary officer , execute an 
agreement binding himself and one surety jointly and 
severally to refund in the event of his failing to com 
plete probation to the satisfaction of the Central Gov 
ernment, any moneys paid to him consequent on his 
appointment as probationer . 

The probationary officers will be on probation for 
a period of three years during which their services 
will be liable to termination on three months notice 
on either side. They shall undergo practical training 
for the first two years . Those favourably reported 
upon at the end of the two years training and who 
have passed any departmental examination or exami 
nations that may be prescribed will be given charge 
of a working post during the third year of their pro 
bationary period . At the end of this period , they will 
be required to pass a Anal practical and theoretical 
departmental examination and will, if successful, be 


7 . The relative seniority of officers recruited under 
Rule 3 ( a ) will ordinarily be determined by the order 
of merit at the end of their first four years training . 
while in the case of those recruited under Rule 3 ( b ) 
the relative seniority will ordinarily be determined by 
the order of merit in the competitive examination . 
As between officers recruited under Rule 3 ( a ) and 
those recruited under Rule 3 (b ) who enter working 
posts in the same year the seniority will be interpo 
lated The Government of India , however , reserve 
the right of fixing seniority at their discretion in indi 
vidual cases . They also reserve the right of assign , 
ing to officers appointed under regulation 3 ( c ) and 
3 ( d ) positions in the seniority list at their discretion . 


NOTE . -- If the period of training and consequently 
the period of probation is extended in any particular 
case due to the training not having been completed 
satisfactorily , the officer concerned is liable to lose in 
seniority 


PART I- SEC . 1 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 16 , 1987 


World History . - Elementary knowledge of major 
events in world history . Reforms or national move . 
ments such as represented by the French Revolution , 
Industrial Revolution in the U . K ., the American War 
of Independence , the foundation of U . S . S . R ., World 
Wars I and II, Modern freedom movements in Asia . 


8 . The following are the rates of pay admissible 
to officers appointed to Mechanical Engineering and 
Transportation (Power ) Department. 

Junior Scale : Rs. 350 — 350 — 380 - 380 — 30 — 590 % EB 
30 — 770 - 40 — 850 . 

Senior Scale : Rs. 600 ( 1st to 6th year ) - 40 - - 1 , 000 
1 ,000 - 1 ,050 — 1 , 050 - 1 . 100 – 1 , 100 - 1150 . 

Junior Administrative Grade : Rs. 1,300 — 60 — 1,600 . 

Senior Administrative Grade: Rs. 1,800 _ 100 _ - 2 ,000 — 
125 — 2 , 250. 

NOTE . - Probationary ofhcers will start on the mini 
mum of the Junior Scale and will count their service 
for increments from the date of joining. They will, 
however , be required to pass any departmental exa 
mination or examinations that may be prescribed be 
fore their pay can be raised from Rs. 350 p . m , to 
Rs. 380 p . m , in the time scale . 

9 . The increments will be given for approved ser 
vice only , and in accordance with the rules of the 
Department. 

10 . Promotions to the Administrative grades are 
dependent on the occurrence of vacancies in the ganc 
tioned establishment and are made wholly by selec 
tion ; mere seniority is considered to confer no claim 
for promotion . 


APPENDIX II 
The subjects of the examination , the time allowed 
and the maximum marks allotted to each subject will 
be as follows: - - 
Subjects 

Marks Duration 
General Knowledge and 

Current Affairs - - 
Paper I 

Current Affairs and History 150 it hours 
Paper II — 
Science and Geography 

150 11 hours 
Mathematics 

300 3 hours 
2 . Question papers will be of Intermediate standard . 
3 . All papers must be answered in English , 
4 . The use of scribe shall not be allowed . 

5 . The syllabus for the examination will be as 
shown in the attached Schedule . 

6 . The Commission have discretion to fix qualifying 
marks in any or all the subjects at the examination . 

7. From the marks assigned to each subject such 
deduction will be made as the Commission may 
consider necessary in order to secure that no credit 
is allowed for merely superficial knowledge . 

8 . Deduction upto 5 per cent of the maximum 
marks for the written subjects will be made for 
illegible handwriting. 
GENERAL KNOWLEDGE AND CURRENT AFFAIRS 

There will be two papers : 
Paper 1-- -Dealing mainly with Current Affairs and 

History . 
Paper II - - Dealing with Science and Geography . 

The following syllabus is designed to indicate the 
scope of each subject included in these papers. The 
topics mentioned are not to be regarded as exhaustive 
and questions on topics of similar nature and not men 
tioned in the syllabus may also be asked . Candidates 
answers are expected to show their intelligent under 
standing of the question and not knowledge of any 
text books. 


PAPER II 
SCIENCE 

Physics .- - Physical properties and states of matter 
and simple measurements of mass, weight, density and 
specific gravity . 

Motion of object ; Velocity , acceleration , force , 
gravity . 

Effects of heat, measurement of temperature , trang 
ference of heat, change of state , 

Rectilinear propagation of light, phenomenon of re 
flection and refraction , 

Natural and artifcial magnet - properties of a mag 
net. 

Electricity , static and current, conductors, and non 
conductors , heating , lighting and magnetic effects of 
currents . 

Chemistry . - Physical and chemical changes, ele 
ments , mixture and compounds, chemical properties 
of air chemical composition of water. Preparation 
and properties of Oxygen , Hydrogen and Nitrogen , 
Acids, Bases and Salts, Carbon , Coal, Carbondioxide. 

Elementary knowledge of the human body and its 
important organs. 

Names and use of common animals, trees, plants , 
flowers, birds and minerals . 

Common epidemics, their causes , means of preven 
tion and cure . 

Eminent Scientlsts and their achievements, 
GEOGRAPHY 

The shape and movements of the earth . Time, 
Night and Day and the Seasons, Climate and wea 
ther — the main climatic and vegetation region . The 
Earth s crust -orosion , transportation and deposition ; 
earthquakes and volcanoes . Tides and Ocean currents . 
Maps. 

Human occupations and activities in relation to 
Geographical factors, 

The Geography of Indla with special reference to 
the above . 


SYLLABUS FOR MATHEMATICS 
Algebra - - Formulan , their evaluation and transform 
mation . Notion of a function ; rate of change . The 
gradient and area of a graph . Solutions of equa 
tions, linear and quadratic , simple and simultaneous. 
Use of logarithms. Simple Properties of positive 
negative and fractional indices . Arithmetical and 
Anite geometrical sequences . 

Trigonometry . - Solution of plane triangles . Grapp 
of trigonometrical functions. Use of four figure 
tables. Additional theorems, 

Pure Geometry. — The substance of Euclid s six 
books, Elementary ideas in solid geometry treated 
informally ; planes , rectangular blocks, wedges , pyra 
mids, cylinders , cones and spheres . 

Analytical Geometry . - Simple properties of straight 
line circle , parabola , ellipse and hyperbola , 


reg 


PAPER I 
Current Events . - Knowledge of important events 
that have happened in India during the past two 
years . India s system of Government. Important 
measures of legislation whether undertaken by the 
Parliament or State Legislatures. Broad questions of 
India s policy relating to foreign affairs , Questions 
set will test the factual knowledge of candidates . 

World events of international importance. Impor 
tant personalities, both Indian and foreign . Sports 
and other cultural activities of outstanding importance . 

Indian History. – Broad outline knowledge of Indian 
History . Konwledge of India s ancient culture and 
civilization ag disclosed by monuments , ancient build 
ings and masterpieces of literature, Growth of self 
government. Main stages in the national movement 
leading to Independence . 


APPENDIX III 

FEES 
Candidates seeking admission to the examination 
must pay the following fees : 
( a ) To the Cominission ; 
(1) Re, 1 when asking for application form and 

connected documents , 
This amount should be paid to the Commission 

by money order . Local candidates , however, 
may pay cash at the counter. The Commis 

sion will not accept payment made otherwise . 
(11) Rs. 36 / 8 / - (Rs. 8 / 6 / - in the case of candi 

dates belonging to Scheduled Castes and Sche 
duled Tribes ) with the completed application 

form 
This amount should be paid by means 

of Treasury Receipt or CROSSED Indian pos 
tal orders payable to Secretary . Union Public 
Service Commission . The Commission will not 
accept payment made otherwise , 


62 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 16 , 1967 


[ PART I - Sec . 1 


TY 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


21 . Mang . 
22 . Mang Garodi, 
23. Manne. 
24 . Mashti, 
25 . Mehtar . 
26 . Mitha Ayyalvar . 
27. Samagara . 
28 . Sindholu (Chindollu ) . 


( b ) To the General Manager of the Railway who 
arranges tor the medical examination . 

Rs. 16 before examination by a Medical Board if 
selecled for appointment, 

2 . Once an application has been considered Lụy the 
Commission and the decision communicated to the can 
didate , no claim from the candidate for a refund of the 
fee paid by him to the Commission will ordinarily be 
entertained , nor can this fee be held in reserve for any 
other examination or selection . If however , a candi 
date is not admitted to the examination by the Com 
mission , a refund of Rs . 30 (Rs. 7 / 8 / - in the case of 
candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes and 
Scheduled Tribes ) will be made to him . 

3 . The Commission may at their discretion remit the 
presribed fee where they are satisfied that the applicant 
is a bona fide displaced person from Pakistan or from 
the unllberated areas of Jammu and Kashmir and is 
not in a position to pay the prescribed fee . The fee of 
Re. 1 must however be paid even by a displaced person , 
when asking for forms though this amount will be 
refundable to him if on receipt of his application his 
claim to be a displaced person 18 accepted by the 
Commission and his fee is remitted . 


ASSAM 
Throughout the State : 

1 . Bansphor . 
2 . Bhuinmali or Mali. 
3 . Brittial Bania or Bania . 
4 . Dhupi or Dhobi. 
5 . Dugla or Dholi . 
6 . Hira 
7 . Jalkeot . 
8 . Jhalo , Malo or Jhalo -Malo 
9 . Kalbartta or Jaliya . 
10 . Lalbegi. 
11. Mahara . 
12 . Mehtar or Bhangi. 
13, Muchi or Rishi. 
14 . Namasudra . 
15 . Patni. 
18 . Sutradhar . 


BIHAR 


APPENDIX IV 
A candidate shall be held to be a member of the 
Scheduled Castes . If he belongs to one of the castes 
specified in the list below under the State (or area ) in 
which he and his family ordinarily reside, 

LIST OF SCHEDULED CASTES 

ANDHRA PRADESH 
Throughout the State : - - 

1 . Chalavadi. 
2. Chamar, Mochi or Muchi, 
3 . Madiga 
4 . Mala 
2. Throughout the State except Hyderabad, Mahbub 
nagar , Adilabad , Nizamabad , Medak , Karimnagar , 
Warangal, Khammam and Nalgonda districts : -- 

1. Adi Andhra , 
2 . Adi Dravida . 
3 Arundhatiya , 
4 . Bariki. 
5 . Bavuri . 
6 . Chachati. 
7 . Chandala . 
8 . Dandaşi , 
9 . Dom , Dombra , Paidi or Pano , 
10 . Ghasi, Haddi or Relli Chachandi, 
11. Godagall, 
12 . Godari 
13 . Gosangi. 
14 , Jaggall, 
15 . Jambuvulu , 
18 . Madasi Kuruya or Madari Kuruva . 
17 . Mala Dasu . 
18 . Madiga Dasú and Masnteen , 
19 . Matangi. 
20 . Mundala . 
21. Paky or Moti. 
22. Pambada or Parbanda 
23. Pamidi, 
24 . Panchama or Pariah 
25 . Relli. 
26 . Samban , 
27 . Sapru . 
28 . Thoti. 


1. Throughout the State : 
1 . Bantar. 
2 . Bauri, 
3 . Bhogta , 
4 . Chamar or Mochi. 
5 . Chaupal. 
8 . Dabgar, 
7. Dhobi. 
8 . Dom or Dhangad . 
9 . Dusadh , including Dhari or Dharhi. 
10 . Ghasi. 
11, Halalkhor . 
12 . Hari, Mehtar or Bhangi. 
13. Kanjar. 
14, Kurarlar. 
15 . Lalbegi. 
16 . Musahar . 
17 . Nat . 
18 . Pan or Sawasi. 
19 . Pasi. 
20 . Rajwar, 
21. Turi 
2 . In Patna and Tirhut divisions, and the districts 
of Monghyr, Bhagalpur, Palamau , Purnea and Bhumid. 

3. In Patna , Shahabad . Gaya and Palamau 
Districts: 

Bhulya. 


3 . In the districts of Hyderabad , Mahbubnagar , 
Adilabad, Nizamabad , Medak , Karimnagar, Warrangal, 
Khammam and Nalgonda : 

1, Anamuk . 
2 . Aray (Mala ) . 
3 . Arwa Mala . 
4 . Beda ( Budga ) Jangam . 
5 . Bindla . 
8 . Byagara . 
7. Chambhar. 
8 . Dakkal (Dokkalwar ) . 
9 . Dhor. 
10 . Ellamalwar ( Yellammalawandlu ) 
11. Holeya. 
12. Holeya Dasarl. 
19 , Kolupulvandlu . 
14 , Mahar. 
15 . Mala Dasari. 
18 . Mala Hannar , 
17, Malajangam . 
18 . Mala Masti. 
19. Mala Salę (Netkant) . 
20. Mala Sanyasl. 


BOMBAY 
1. Throughout the State except the districts of 
Bludana , Akola , Amravati, Yeotmal, Wardha , Nagpur, 
Bhandara , Chanda, Aurangabad , Parbhani, Nanded , 
Bhir , Osmanabad , Halar, Madhya Saurashtra , Zalawad , 
Gohilwad , Sorath and Kutch : 

1. Ager . 
2 . Bakad or Bant. 
3 . Bhambi, Bhambhi, Asadaru , Asodi, Chamadia , 

Chamar, Chambhar, Chamgar, Haralaya , 
Harali , Khalpa , Machigar , Mochigar, Madar , 
Madig . Telegu Mochi, Kamati Mochi, Ranigar , 

Rohidas , Rohit or Samgar , 
4 . Bhangi, Mehtar , Olgana , Rukhi, Malkana , 

Halalkhor, Lalbegi, Balmiki, Korar or Zadmall , 
5 . Chalvadi or Chahnayya . 
8 . Chenna Dasar or Holaya Dasar . 
7 , Dhor , Kakkayya or Kankayya . 
8 . Garoda or Garo . 
9 . Halleer 
10. Halsar, Haslar, Hulasvar or Halasvar . 
11. Holar or Valhar 
12 . Holaya or Holer . 
13. Lingader . 
14 . Mahar , Taral or Dhegu Megu . 
15 . Mahyavanshi, Dhed , Vankar or Maru Vankar . 
16. Mang, Matang or Minimadig . 
17 . Mang -Garudi , 
18 . Meghval or Menghyar , 
19 . Mukri. 
20 . Nadia or Hadi. 
21. Pasi, 
22 , Shenya, Chenya , Sedma or Ravat. 
23. Tirgar or Tirbanda . 
24. Turi 


PART I - SEC . 1 ] 


THÊ GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 18 , 1067 


- 


2 . In the districts of Greater Bombay, West Khan 
desh , East Khandesh , Dangs. Nasik , Ahmednagar , 
Poona , Sataro North Satara South , Kolhapur, Shola 
pur, Thana, Kolaba Fatnagirl : - - 

Mochi. 
3 . in the districts of Buldana , Akola , Amravati, 
Yeotmal, Wardha, Nagpur, Bhandara and Chanda : 

1. Bahna or Bahana . 
2 . Balahi or Balai, 
3 . Basor, Burud , Bansor or Bansodi , 
4 , Chamar, Chamari, Mochi, Nona , Rohiday , Ram 

nami, Satnamai, Surjyabansi or Surjyaram 

nami, 
5 . Dom or Dumar. 
6 . Dobor . 
7 . Ganda or Gandl. 
8 . Ghasi or Ghasia 
9 . Kaikadi. 
10 . Katia or Patharia . 
11 . Khatik , Chikwa or Chikvi , 
12. Madgl. 
13. Mahar or Mehra . 
14 . Mang , Dankhnt-Mang , Mang Mahashi, Mang 

Garudi, Madari , Garudi or Radhe-Mang . 
15. Mehtar or Bhangi, 
18 . Sansi. 
4 . In the districts of Akola , Amravati and Buldona: 

Bedar . 
5 . In the district of Bhandara : 

1 . Chadar. 

2 . Hollya . 
18. In the districts of Bhandara and Buldana : - - 

Khangar , Kanera or Mirdha , 
7. In the districts of Amravati , Bhandara and 
Buldana 

Kori. 
8 . In the districts of Aurangabad . Parbhani, Nanded , 
Bhir and Osmanabad : 

1. Anamuk , 
2 . Aray (Mala ) . 
3 . Arwa Mala . 
4 , Beda (Budga ) Jangarn . 
5 . Bindla . 
6 . Byagara . 
7 . Chalvadi. 
8 . Chambhar . 
9 . Dakkal ( Dokkalwar ) . 
10 , Dhor . 
11 . Ellamalwar ( Yellammalawadlu ) . 
12 . Holeya. 
13 . Holeya Dasari , 
14 . Kolupulvandlu , 
15 . Madiga. 
16 . Mahar . 
17 . Mala . 
18 . Mala Dasari , 
19 . Mala Hannal, 
20 . Malajangam . 
21. Mala Masti. 
22 . Mala Sale (Netkani) , 
23 . Mala Sanyasi , 
24 . Mang. 
25. Mang Garodi. 
26 , Manne. 
27. Mashti. 
28 . Mehtar. 
29, Mitha Ayyalvar , 
30 . Mochi. 
31 . Samagara . 
32 . Sindhollu (Chindollu ) . 
9 . In the districts of Halar , Madhya Saurashtra , 
Zalawad , Gohilwad and Sorath : 

1 . Bawa (Dhedh ) or Dedh -Sadhu , 
2 . Bhangi or Rukhi. 
3 . Chamadia . 
4 . Chamar, Nalla or Rohit , 
5 . Dangashla 
6 . Garoda. P 
7 . Garmatang . 
8 . Hadi , 
9 . Meghwal , 
10 . Senya , 
11. Shemalia , 
12 . Thori. 
13 . Turl. 
14 . Turl-Barot or Dhedh -Barot . 
15 . Vankar, Dhedh or Antyal . 
10 . In the district of Kutch : 

1. Bhangi. 
2 . Chamar. 
3 . Garoda , 
4 . Meghwal. 
5 Turl. 
8 . Turi- Sarot . 


KERALA 
1. Throughout the State : 

1 . Chakkiliyan . 
2 . Kurvan , Sidhanar , 
3 . Nayadi. 
4 . Pallan , 
5 . Paraiyan , parayan ( Sambavar ) , 

6 . Valluvan , 
2. Throughout the State except Kasaragod taluk 
of Malabar district : 

1. Kanakkan or Padanna . 

2 . Panan . 
3. Throughout the State except Malabar district 
( excluding Kasaragod taluk ) : 

Paravan . 
4. Throughout the State except Malabar District: 

1 . Ayyanavar. 
2 . Bharatar , 
3 . Boyan , 
4 . Domban . 
6 . Kakkalan , 
6 . Kavara . 
7 . Kootan (Koodan ) . 
8 . Mannan , 
9 . Padannan . 
10 . Palluvan . 
ll, Pathiyan . 
12 . Perumannan , 
13 . Pulayan or Cheramar , 
14 . Thandan , 
15 . Ulladan , 
16 . Uraly , 
17. Vallon , 
18 . Vannan . 
19 . Velan . 
20 . Vetan , 
21. Bettuvan , 
5 . In Malabar district: 

1 . Adi Andhra . 
2 . Adi Dravida . 
3 . Adi Karnataka . 
4 . Ajila . 
6 . Arunthathiyar , 
6 . Balra. 
7 . Bakuda . 
8 . Bandi. 
9 . Bellara, 
10 . Chamar or Muchi. 
11. Chandala . 
12 . Cheruman . 
13 . Godagall , 
14 . Godda , 
15 . Gosangi. 
16 . Holeya . 
17. Kadalyan . 
18 . Kalladi, 
19 . Karimpalan , 
20. Koosa. 
21, Kudumban . 
22. Maila 
23 . Mayllan . 
24 . Moger, 
25. Mundala . 
20 . Nalakeyava . 
27 . Pambada. 
28 . Panchama. 
29 . Puthirai Vaanan , 
30 . Raneyar , 
31, Samagara . 
32 . Samban 
33. Semman , 
34 . Thoti. 
6 . In Malabar district ( excluding kasaragod taluk ) : 

1 . Gavara 
2 . Malayan . 

3 . Pulaya Vettuvan , 
7 . In Kasaragod taluk of Malabar district: 

1 . Bathada . 
2 . Hasla , 
3 . Nalkadaya . 


MADHYA PRADESH 
1. In the districts of Bhind , Gird , Morena, Shivpuri , 
Goona , Rajgarh , Shajapur, Ujjain , Ratlam , Mandsaur , 
Bhilsa , Indore , Dewas , Dhar , Jhabuia and Nimar 
( M . B . ) 


1, Bagri or Bagdi. 
2 . Balai. 
3 . Banchada . 
4 . Barahar or Basod , 
5 . Bargunda, 
A . Bedia , 


THE GAZÉTTE OP INDIA , FEBRUARY 18 , 1967 [ PART 4Sec. 1 
» - - - - - - - - - - --- -- - - - - - = - - - - - - - - F LY - - - - - - - 
7 . Blangi or Mehtar . 

15 . In the districts of Datia , Tibamgarh , Chhatarpur, 
8 . Bhanumali. 

Panna, Satna , Rewa, Sidhi and Shabdol:- - 
9 . Chamar, Bairwa, Bhambi, Jatav, Mochi or 
Regar . 

1 . Basor or Bansphor. 
10 . Chidar 

2 . Belday or Sunkar. 
11. Dhanuk . 

3. Chamar, Ahlrwar, Chumar Mangan , Mochi or 
12 . Dhed , 

Raidas. 
13 , Dom , 

4 . Dharkar , Balmik or Lalbegi. 
14 , Kanjar . 

5 . Dher . 
15 , Khatik . 

6 . Dom . 
10 , Koll or Kori. 

7. Domar or Doris , 
17 . Kotwal. 

8 . Ghasia . 
18 . Mahar. 

9 . Kuchbandhia . 

10 . Kumhar 
19 . Mang or Mang Garodi. 
20 . Meghwal. 

11 . Mehtar, Bhangi or Dhanuk . 
21, Nat, Kalbelia or Sapera , 

12 . Moghia . 
22. Pardhi. 

13 . Muskhan . 
23 . Pasl. 

14 . Pasi. 
24 . Sansi. 

15 . Sansla or Bedla . 
25. Zamral , 

16 . In the districts of Raisen and Sehore: 
2 . In the districts of Chhindwara , Betul, Jabalpur, 

1. Balahi. 
Sagar, Mandla , Hoshangabad , Nimur, Balaghat, Ral 

2 . Bansphor or Basor , 
pur, Bilaspur, Durg, Bastar, Sureuja and Raigarh : 

3 . Basar , 
1. Bahna or Bahana. 

4 . Bedla , 
2 . Balahi or Balal. 

5 . Beldar. 

6 . Chamar , Jatav or Mochi. 
3 . Basor , Burud, Bansor or Bangodi. 

7 . Chitar. 
4 . Chamar , Chamari, Mochi, Nona. Rohidas. Ram 

8 . Dhanuk . 
nami, Satnami, Surjyabanshi or Surſyaram 

9 . Dhobi, 
nami. 

10 . Dome. 

11. Kanar. 
5 . Dom or Dumar. 

12, Khatik . 
6 . Ganda or Gandi 

13. Koli Or Katia . 
7 . Khatik , Chikwa or Chikvi. 

14. Mang. 

15 Mehar . 
8 . Mang , Dankhni-Mang, Mang Mahashi, Mang 

16 . Mehtar or Bhangi. 
Garudi, Madari, Garudi or Radhe -Mang. 

17 . Pasi. 
9 . Mehtar or Bhangi. 

18 . Sangla . 

19 . Sllawat. 
10 . Sansi. 


MADRAS 
1 . Throughout the State: 

1 . Chakkiliyan , 
2 Kuravan , Sidhanar, 
3 . Nayadi, 
4 , Pallan , 
5 . Paralyan , Parayan (Sambavar) . 

6 . Valluvan . 
2 . Throughout the State except Kanya Kumari 
district and Shencottah taluk of Tirunelveli district: 


3. In Bilaspur district: 

Audhella . 
4 . In Sagar district : 

Chadar. 
8 . In Damoh sub - division of Sagar district : 

Dahaſt, Dahawat or Dahat. 
6 . In the districts of Blaspur, Durg , Raipur, Bastar, 
Surguja and Raigarh : 

Dewar , 
7. In Sagar district except Damoh sub - division there 
of : 

Dhanuk 
8 . In Balaghat district:-- 

1. Dohor . 
2 . Hollya. 

8. Madgi. 
9 . In the districts of Balaghat , Bllaspur, Durg , Ral 
pur , Surguja , Bastar and Raigarh : 

Ghasi or Ghala , 
10 . In Balaghat, Betul, Bilaspur, Durg , Nimar, Ral 
pur, Bastar, Surguja and Raigarh districts ; In Hoshan 
gabad and Seoni-Malwa tensils of Hoshangabad dist 
rict , in Chhindwara district except in Seont gub - divi 
sion thereot; and in Sagar district except in Damoh 
sub - division thereof : 

Katla or Patharla. 
11 . In Sagar district ; and in Hoshangabad and Seont 
Malwa tahslls of Hoshangabad district: 

Khangar, Kanera or Mirdha . 
12 . In Chhindwara , Betul, Jabalpur , Sagar, Mandla , 
Nimar , Balaghat, Raipur, Durg , Bastar , Surguja and 
Raigarh districts ; and in Hoshangabad district ercept 
Harda and Sohagpur tahgilg thereof: - - 

Kori. 


1 . Adi Andhra . 
2 . Adl Dravida . 
3 . Adi Karnataka , 
4 . Ajila . 
6 . Arunthathiyar, 
6 . Balra . 
7 , Bakuda , 
8 . Bandi. 
9 . Bellara . 
10 . Chalavadi. 
11 . Chamar or Muchi. 
12 . Chandala . 
13 . Cheruman . 
14 . Devendrakulathan . 
15 . Dom , Dombara , Paldi or Pano . 
16 , Godagall , 
17 . Godda . 
18 . Gosangi, 
19 . Holeya . 
20 . Jaggali, 
21, Jambuvulu , 
22 , Kadaiyan . 
23 . Kalladi , 
24 . Karimpalan , 
25 . Kooga . 
26 . Kudumban , 
27. Madari, 
28 . Madiga . 
29 . Maila . 
30 . Mala . 
31. Mavilan , 
32 . Moger, 
33. Mundala . 
34. Nalakeyava . 
35 . Pagadal, 
36 . Pambada 
37 . Panchama, 
38 . Pannlandi. 
39 . Puthirai Vannan . 
40 . Raneyar. 
41. Samagara , 
42. Samban , 
43. Sapari. 
44 . Semman , 
45 . Thoti . 
48. Tiruvalluvar. 


13 . In Chhindwara , Betul, Jabalpur, Sagar, Mandla , 
Nimar , Balaghat, Rajpur , Bilaspur, Durg , Bastar , Sur 
guja and Raigarh districts ; and in Hoshangabad dist 
rict except Harda and Sohagpur tahsils thereof : 


Maher or Mehra . 
14, In Sohagpur taholl of Hoshangabad district: 

Rujlhar . 


PART I- Se 1 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 16 , 1967 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


Taluk 


3 . In the Nilgiri district : 

Kanakkan or Padanna . 
4 . In Coimbatore and Salem districts : 
1 . Pannadi. 

2 . Vathiriyan . 
5 . In Kanya Kumari district and Shencottah 
of Tirunclveli district : 

1 . Ayyanavar , 
2 . Bharatar , 
3 . Domban . 
4 . Kakkalan , 
5 . Kavara . 
6 . Kootan (Koodan ). 
7 . Mannan , 
8. Padahnan , 
9 . Palluvan . 
10 . Panan . 
11 . Paravan , 
12 . Pathiyan , 
13 . Perumannan . 
14 . Pulayan or Cheramar . 
15 . Thandan . 
16 . Ulladan 
17. Uraly . 
18 . Vallon . 
19 . Vannan . 
20 , Velan , 
21. Vetan , 
22. Vettuvan , 
6 . In Tanjore district : - - 

1 . Kollyan . 
2 . Vettiyan . 


5 . Bindla , 
6 . Byagara . 
7, Chalvadi. 
8 . Chambhar, 
9 . Dakkal (Dokkalwar). 
10 . Dhor, 
11. Ellamalwar (Yellammalawendlux 
12. Holeya . 
13 . Holeya Dasari, 
14 , Kolupulvandlu . 
15 . Madiga . 
16 . Mahar. 
17. Mala , 
18 . Mala Dasari, 
19 . Mala Hannal , 
20 . Malatangam , 
21. Mala Masti , 
22 . Mala Sale (Netkant) . 
23 . Mala Sanyasi. 
24 . Mang. 
25 . Mang Garodi . 
26 . Manne. 
27 . Mashti . 
28. Mehtar. 
29 . Mitha Ayyalvar , 
30 . Mocht 
31. Samagara , 
32 . Sindhollu (Chindollu ) . 


of 


MYSORE 
1 . Throughout the State except Coorg , Belvaum , 
Bijapur, Dharwar, Kanara , South Kanara, Gulbarga , 
Raichur and Bidar districts and Kollegal taluk of 
Mysore district : 

1 . Adi Andhra . 
2 . Adidravida . 
3 . Adikarnataka . 
4 . Banjara or Lambant. 
5 . Bhovi. 
8 . Dakkaliga , 
7 . Ganti Chores , 
8 . Handl Jogis . 
9 . Kemparis , 
10 . Koracha. 
11. Korama. 
12 . Machala . 
13 . Mochi. 
14 . Sullekyathas . 
15 . Sudugadu Siddha. 


2 . In the districts of Belgaum , Bijapur , Dharwar and 
Карага : 

1 , Ager , 
2 . Bakad or Bant. 
3. Bhambi, Bhambhi, Asadaru , Asodi, Chamadia , 

Chamar , Chambhar , Chamgar , Haralayya , 
Harali, Khalpa , Machigar , Mochigar, Madar , 
Madig , Mochi Telegu Mochi, Kamati Mochi, 

Ranigar , Rohidas , Rohit, or Samgar , 
4 . Bhangi, Mehtar, Olgana, Rukhi, Malkana , 

Halalkhor, Lalbegi, Balmiki, Korar or 

Zadmalli. 
5 . Chalvadi or Channayya . 
6 . Chenna Dasar or Holaya Dasar . 
7 . Dhor, Kakkayya or Kankayya . 
8 . Garoda or Garo , 
9 . Halleer . 
10 , Halsar, Haslar, Hulasvar or Halagyar , 
11 . Holar or Valhar , 
12 . Holaya or Holer , 
13 . Lingader . 
14 . Mahar , Taral, or Dhegu Megu . 
15 . Mahyavanshi, Dbed , Vankar or Maru Vankar . 
16 . Mang, Matang or Minimadig , 
17 . Mang -Garudi, 
18. Meghval or Menghvar , 
19 . Mukri, 
20 . Nadia or Hadi. 
21. Pasi. 
22. Shenya , Chenva , Şedma, or Ravat. 
23, Tirgar or Tirbanda, 
24. Turi . 
3 . In Kanara district. - 

Kotegar or Metri, 
4 In the districts of Gulbarga , Bidar and Raichur : -- 

1. Anamuk . 
2 . Aray (Mala ) . 
3 . Arwa Mala . 
4 . Bede (Budga ) Jangam , 


5 . In South Kanara district and Kollegal taluk 
Mysore district : 

1 . Adi Andhra , 
2 . Adi Dravida . 
3 . Adi Karnataka . 
4 , Ajila . 
5 . Arunthathiyar , 
6 . Balra . 
7 . Bakuda . 
8 . Bandi. 
9 . Bellara , 
10 . Chakkiliyan . 
11 , Chalavadi, 
12 . Chamar or Muchi. 
13 . Chandala . 
14 , Cheruman , 
15 . Devedrakulathan , 
16 . Dom , Dombara , Paldi or Pano 
17 . Godagall, 
18 . Godda 
19 . Gosangi. 
20 , Holeya 
21 . Jaggall. 
22 . Jambuvulu . 
23. Kadalyan , 
24 . Kalladi. 
25 . Karlmpalan . 
26 . Koosa . 
27 . Kudumban , 
28 . Kuravan , 
29 . Madari. 
30 . Madiga . 
31. Maila 
32. Mala . 
33. Mavilan . 
34 . Moger. 
35. Mundala . 
36 . Nalakeyava , 
37. Nayadi. 
38 . Pagadal 
39 . Pallan , 
40 . Pambada. 
41, Panchama. 
42 . Panniandi. 
43 . Paralyan , 
44 . Puthirai Vannan . 
45 . Raneyar , 
46 . Samagara . 
47. Samban . 
48. Sapari. 
49. Semman . 
50 . Thoti. 
51. Tiruvalluvar . 
52 . Valluvan , 
6 . In Kollegal Taluk of Mysore district: 

1, Pannadi. 

2 . Vathiriyan , 
7 . In South Kanara district : 

1 . Bathada . 
2 . Hasla . 
3 . Nalkadaya. 

4 . Paravan . 
8 . In Coorg . district : 

1 . Adi Dravida . 
2 . Adi Karnataka , 
3 . Adlya . 
4 . Balagal, 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 18 , 1957 


[ PART 1 - Sec. 1 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- . 


5 . Holeya , 
6 , Madiga . 
7 . Muchi. 
8 . Mundąla . 
9 . Pale . 
10 . Panchama. 
11 . Paraya . 
12. Samagara , 


90 . Tiar or Tior . 
91 . Turi. 
92. Ujia . 
93 . Valamiki or Valmiki, 
2. In Sambalpur District: 

Kuli . 


ORISSA 


1. Throughout the State : -- 

1. Adi Andhra , 
2 . Amant or Amat. 
3 . Audhella . 
4 . Badalk . 
5 . Bagheti or Baghuti. 
8 . Baſikar , 
7 . Bar , 
8 . Bariki, 
0 . Basor or Burud . 
10 . Bauri. 
11 , Bauti , 
12 . Bavuri, 
13 . Bedia or Bejia , 
14 . Beldar . 
15. Bhata . 
16 . Bhoi. 
17. Chachati, 
18 . Chakall, 
19. Chamar, Mochi, Muchi or Satnarni 
20 . Chandala 
21. Cherua or Chhelia . 
22. Chandhal Maru , 
23, Dandasi. 
24 . Dewar. 
25 . Dhanwar . 
26 . Dhoba or Dhobi. 
27 . Dom , Dombo or Duria Dom . 
28 . Dosadha. 
29. Ganda . 
30 . Ghantarghada or Ghantra . 
31. Ghasi or Ghasia . 
32 . Ghogla , 
33. Ghusuria . 
34 . Godagali . 
35 . Godari. 
36 . Godra . 
37. Gokha , 
38. Gorait or Korait. 
39. Haddi, Hadi or Far). 
40. Irika . 
41. Jaggali. 
42 . Kandra or Kandara . 
43 . Karua . 
44 , Katia . 
45 . Kela . 
46. Khadala . 
47, Kodalo or Khodalo . 
48 . Kori. 
49. Kummari. 
50. Kurunga . 
51. Laban . 
52 . Laheri. 
53. Madari, 
54 . Madiga. 
55 . Mahuria . 
56. Mala , Jhala , Malo Or Zala . 
57 . Mang. 
58. Mangan . 
59, Mehra or Mahar. 
60. Mehtur or Bhangi. 
61, Mewar. 
62. Mundapotta . 
63 . Musahar. 
64, Nagarchi. 
65 . Namasudra . 
66 . Paidi. 
67 , Painda. 
68 , Pamidi. 
69. Pan or Pano . 
70 . Panchama. 
71 . Panika , 
72. Panka . 
73 . Pantanti. 
74 , Pap . 
75 . Pasi, 
76 , Patial, Patikar, Patratanti or Patna 
77 . Rajna . 
78. Relli, 
79 , Sabakhia . 
80. Samasi. 
81. Sanei. 
82 . Sapari. 
83. Sauntia ( Santia ) . 
84 . Sidhria 
85 . Sinduria . 
86 . Şiyal. 
87 . Tamadia , 
88, Tamudia 
89. Tanla . 


PUNJAB 
1. Throughout the State : 

1. Ad Dharmi, 
2 . Bangali. 
3 Barar, Burar or Berar, 
4 . Batwal. 
5 . Bauria or Bawaria . 
6 . Bazigar . 

Balmiki, Chura or Bhangi. 
8 . Bhanjra . 
9 . Chamar , Jutia Chamar , Rehgar, Raigar, Ramdasi 

or Ravidası, 
10. Chanal. 
11. Dagi. 
12 . Dhanak , 
13. Dumna, Mahasha or Doom . 
14 . Gagra . 
15 . Gandhila or Gandil Gondola . 
16 , Kabirpanthi or Julaha . 
17 . Khatik , 
18 . Kori or Koli, 
19. Marija or Marecha. 
20 . Mazhabi, 
21 , Megh . 
22 . Nat . 
23 . Od. 
24, Pasi. 
25 . Perna. 
26 . Pherera . 
27 . Sanhai. 
28 . Sanhal. 
29. Sansi, Bhedkut or Manesh , 
30 . Sapela . 
31. Sarera 
32. Sikligar. 
33. Sirkiband . 

2 . Throughout the State except the districts of 
Patiala , Bhatinda, Mohindergarh , Kapurthala and 
Sangrur : — 

1 . Darain , 
2 . Dhogri, Dhangri or Siggi. 

3 . Sansoi. 
3 . In the districts of Patiala , Bhatinda, Mohindergarh , 
Kapurthala and Sangrur : 

Deha, Dhaya or Dhea . 


RAJASTHAN 
1. Throughout the State except Ajmer district, Abu 
Road taluka of Sirohi district and Sunel Tappa of 
Jhalawar district : 

1. Adi Dharmi. 
2 . Aheri. 
3 . Badi. 
4 , Bagri. 
5 . Bairwa or Berwa , 
6 . Bajgar. 
7 . Balai. 
8 . Bansphor. 
9 . Bagri, Vagri or Birgi. 
10 , Bawaria . 
11. Bedia or Beria . 
12 . Bhand . 
13 . Bhangi. 
14 . Bidakia . 
15 . Bola . 
16 . Chamar , Bhambhi, Jatav , Jatia , Mochi, Raldags , 

Raigar or Ramdasia , 
17 . Chandal. 
18 . Chura. 
19. Dabgar . 
20 . Dhankia . 
21. Dheda , 
22, Dome, 
23. Gandia . 
24 . Garancha Mehtar or Gancha 
25 . Garo , Garura or Gurda , 
26 . Gavaria . 
27. Godbi. 
28. Jingar. 
29 . Kalbelia , 
30 . Kamad or Kamadia . 
31 . Kanjar, 
32. Kapadia Sansi, 
33 Khangar. 
34. Khatik , 


PART I - SEC . 1 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDLA , FEBRUARY 18 , 1957 


35. Koli or Kori, 
36 . Kooch Band , 
37 . Korla 
38. Kunjar. 
39. Mudari or Bazigur, 
40. Majhabi. 
41. Megh or Megliwal. 
42. Mehar, 
43, Mehtar. 
44 . Nut. 
45 . Pasi. 
46 . Rawal. 
47. Salvi. 
48 . Sansi. 
49. Santia , 
50. Sarbhangi. 
51. Sargara . 
52. Singiwala . 
53 . Thori or Nayak . 
54 . Tirgar , 
55 . Valmiki. 


8 . Bhanumati. 
9 . Chamar, Bairwa, Bhambi, Jatav, Mochi or Regar. 
10 . Chidar. 
11. Dhanuk , 
12 . Dhed . 
13. Dom . 
14. Kanjar . 
15 . Khatik , 
10 . Koli or Korj. 
17. Kotwal, 
18 . Mahar . 
19. Mang or Mang Garodi. 
20 . Meghwal. 
21. Nat, Kalbelia or Sapera. 
22. Pardhi. 
23. Pasi. 
24 . Sansi. 
25 . Zamral, 


2 . In Ajmer district : 

1 . Aheri. 
2 . Bagri. 
3 . Balai. 
4 . Bambhi. 
5 . Bansphod , 
6 . Baori. 
7 . Bargi. 
8 . Bazigar. 

9 . Bhangi. 
10 . Bidakia . 
11. Chamar, Jatava, Jatia , Mochi or Raigur. 
12 . Dabgar . 
13 . Dhanak . 
14 . Dhed . 
15 . Dhobi. 
16 . Dholi. 
17 . Dom , 
18. Garoda . 
19. Gancha . 
20 . Kabirpanthi. 
21. Kalbelia . 
22. Khangar. 
23. Khatik , 
24 . Koli, 
25 . Koria . 
26 . Kuchband, 
27 . Mahar 
28 . Meghwal. 
29 . Nat. 
30 . Pasi 
31. Rawal. 
32 . Sarbhangi. 
33. Sargara . 
34. Satia . 
35 . Thori, 
36 . Tirgar 
37 . Kanjar . 
38. Sansi, 


UTTAR PRADESH 
1. Throughout the State : - . 

1 . Agariya . 
2 . Badi. 
3 . Badhik . 
4 . Baheliya . 
5 . Baiga . 
6 . Baiswar. 
7 . Bajaniya. 
8 . Bajgi. 
9 . Balahar. 
10 . Balai. 
11. Balmiki. 
12 . Bangalı, 
13 . Banmanus . 
14 . Bansphor, 
15 . Barwar . 
16 . Basor. 
17. Bawariya. 
18 . Beldar. 
19. Beriya . 
20. Bhantu . 
21. Bhuiya . 
22 . Bhuyiar. 
23. Boria . 
24 . Chamar, Dhusia , Jhusia or Jatava 
25 . Chero . 
26 . Dabgar , 
27. Dhangar . 
28 . Dhanuk 
29 . Dharkar. 
30 . Dhobi, 
31, Dom . 
32 , Dofriar . 
33 . Dusadh . 
34 . Gharami. 
35 . Ghasiya , 
36 . Gual 
37. Habura , 
38 . Hari 
39 . Hela , 
40 . Kalabaz. 
41. Kanjar. 
42 . Kapariya. 
43 . Karwal. 
44. Khairaha . 
45. Khorot. 
46 . Kharwar cxcluding Benbansi. 
47. Khatik . 
48 . Kol, 
49 . Korwa. 
50 . Lalbegi. 
51, Majhwar. 
52 . Mazhubi. 
53. Musahar . 
54 . Nat. 
55 . Pankha . 
56 . Parahiya. 
57. Pasi or Tarmall. 
58 . Patari. 
59. Rawat . 
60 . Sahariya . 
61 . Sanaurhiya , 
62 . Sansiya . 
H3 . Shilpkår . 
64 . Turaiha . 
! . Throughout the State excluding Agra , Meerut and 
Rohilkhand divisions: 

Kori, 
3 . In Bundelkhand division and the portion of Mirza 
pur district south of Kaimur Range : 

Gond 


3 . In Abu Road tuluka of Şirohi district: 

1. Ager . 
2 . Bakad or Bant, 
3 , Bhambi, Bhambhi, Asadaru , Asodi, Chamadia , 

Chamar, Chambhar, Chamgar , Haralayya , 
Harali, Khalpa, Machigar , Mochigar , Madar , 
Madig . Telegu Mochi, Kamati Mochi, Ranigar , 

Rohidas, Rohit or Samgar. 
4 . Bhangi, Mehtar, Olgana, Rukhi, Malkana , Halal., 

khor, Lulbegi Balmiki, Korar or Zadmalli. 
5 . Chalvadi or CHannayya. 
6 , Chenna Dasar or Holaya Dasar. 
7 . Dhor, Kakkayya or Kankayya . 
8 . Garoda or Garo . 
9 . Halleer. 
10 , Ilalsar , Haslar, Hulasvar or Halasvar. 
11 . Flolar or Valhar. 
12 . Holaya or Holer . 
13 . Lingader . 
14 , Mahar, Taral or Dhegu Megu . 
15 . Mahyavanshi, Dhed , Vankar or Maru Vankar. 
16 . Mang , Matang or Minimadig . 
17 . Mang -Garudi. 
18 , Mcghval or Menghvar . 
19. Mukri. 
20 . Nadia or Hadi. 
21, Pasi. 
22 . Shenva, Chenya, Sedma or Ravat. 
23. Tirgar or Tirbanda . 
24, Turi. 
H . In Sunel Tappa of Jhalawar (listrict::-- 

1 . Bagri or Bagdi. 
2 . Balai, 
3 . Banchada . 
4 . Barahar or Baxod . 
5 . Bargunda . 
6 . Bedia , 
7 . Bhangi or Mehtar . 


WEST BENGAL 


1. Throughout the States : 

1. Bauri, 

2. Chamar . Charmakar, Mochi, Mucht, 
Ruidas or Rishi. 


Rabidag 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 16 , 1957 


[PART 1-- Sec. 1 


3 . Dhoba or Dhobi, 
4 . Dom or Dhangad . 
5 . Dosadh or Duşadh including Dhar ! or Dharhi 
6 . Ghasi 
7 . Lalbegi. 
8 . Musahar, 
9 . Pan or Sawasi. 
10 . Pasi. 
11 , Rajwar. 
12 . Turi. 

2 Throughout the State ercept in the Furulla district 
and the torritories transferred from the Purnea district 


of Bihar : 


10 . Chamar , Chanwar Chamar, Jatya or Jatav 

Chamar, Mochi, Ramdasia , Ravidase , Raidasi, 

Rehgarh or Raigar . 
11. Chohra (Sweeper ) . 
12 . Chuhra (Balmiki) 
13 . Dhanak or Dhanuk . 
14 Dhobi. 
13 . Dom , 
16 . Gharrami. 
17. Jullaha (Weaver ) . 
18 . Kabirpanthi. 
19 . Kachhandha . 
20 . Kanjar or Giarah , 
21. Khatik . 
22. Koli. 
23. Lalbegi. 
24 . Madari . 
25 . Mallah . 
26 . Mazhabi. 
27. Meghwal. 
28 . Naribut. 
29 . Nat ( Rana ) . 
30 . Pasi. 
31. Perna . 
32, Sansi or Bhedkut. 
33. Sapera . 
34 . Stkligar . 
35 . Singiwala or Kalbelia . 
38 . Sískiband , 


1 . Bagdi or Duley , 
2 . Bahella . 
3 . Baiti. 
4 . Bedlya, 
6 . Beldar . 
8 . Bhuimali , 
7 . Bhuiya . 
8 . Bind . 
9 . Damai (Nepall) . 
10 . Doai. 
11. Gonrhi 
12 . Hari. 
13 . Jalla Kaibartta , 
14 . Jhalo Malo or Malo 
15 . Kadar. 
16 . Kami (Nepall) , 
17. Kandra . 
18 . Kaora . 
19 . Karenga or Koranga 
20 . Kaur . 
21. Keot or Keyot. 
22. Khaira . 
23. Khatik , 
24 . Koch , 
25 . Konal. 
26 . Konwar . 
27 . Kotu ) , 
28 . Lohar . 
29 . Mahar . 
30 . Mal. 
31. Mallah . 
32 . Mehtor. 
93 . Namasudra . 
34 . Nuniya . 
25 . Paliya , 
36 , Patni, 
37. Pod or Poundra . 
38 . Rajbanshi, 
39 . Sarki (Nepali) . 
40 . Sunri excluding Saha . 
41. Tiyar. 

3 . In the Purulia district and the territories trang 
ferred from the Purnea district of Bihar :- - 

1 . Bantar. 
2 . Bhogta . 
3 . Chaupal. 
4 . Dabgar. 
5 . Halalkhor. 
6 . Hari, Mehtar or Bhangl. 
7 . Kanjar . 
8 . Kurarlar. 
9 . Nat . 
4 . In the territories transferred from the Purnea 
district of Bihar: 

Bhumij. 


JIIMACHAL PRADESH 
Throughout the Union Territory: - - 

1 . Ad - dharmı. 
2 . Badhi or Nagalu , 
3 . Bandhela . 
4 . Balmiki, Chura or Bhangl. 
5 . Bangali. 
6 . Banjara . 
7 . Bansi, 
8 . Barad . 
9 . Barar , 
10 . Batwal. 
11 Bawaria 
12 . Bazigar 
13 . Bhanjra 
14. Chamar, Mochi, Ramdasi, Ravidasi or Raindasia . 
15 . Chanal, 
16 . Chhimbe ( Dhobi) 
17 . Chuhre . 
18 . Dagi 
19 . Daole 
20 Darai or Daryai 
21 Doule . 
22 . Dhaki or Toori. 
23. Dhaogri or Dhual. 
24 . Doom or Doomna. 
25 Dumne ( Bhanjre ) , 
26 Hall 
27. Hesi. 
28. Jogi. 
29 . Julahe. 
39 . Kabirpanthi, Julaha or Keer . 
31. Kamoh or Dagolt . 
32. Karoack , 
33 . Khatik , 
34 Koli 
35 Lohar 
30 . Mazhabi, 
37. Megh . 
38 . Nat. 
39 . Od 
10 . Pasi. 
+ 1. Phrera. 
12 . Rehar . 
43 , Rehara , 
44 . Sansi 
45 . Sapela . 
46 . Sarrle , Sararc or Siryare . 
47 . Sarehde. 
18 . Sikligar 
49. Sipt 
57 . Sirkiband 
51. Teli 
52 Thathiar or Thathira . 


JAMMU AND KASHMIR 
1 . Barwala 
2 . Basith 
3 . Batwal. 
4 . Chamar or Ramdasia , 
5 , Chura . 
6 . Dhyar. 
7 . Doon of Mahasha , 
8 . Gardi, 
9 . Jolaha , 
10 . Megh or Kabirpanthi. 
11. Ratal 
12 . Saryara . 
13 . Watal. 

DELHI 


MANIPUR 


Throughout the Union Territory : 

1. Adi-Dharmi 
2 . Agria , 
3 . Aheria . 
4 . Balai. 
5 , Banjara . 
B . Bawarla . 
7 . Bazigar . 
8 . Bhangl. 
9 . Bhil . 


Throughout the Union Territory : - - 

1. Dhupi or Dhohi 
2 . Lois . 
3. Murhl or Ravidas. 
4 . Namasudra . 

. Patni, 
6 Sutradhar 
7 Yaithihi, 


- 


- 


- 


PART I - Sec. 1 ] 

THË GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 16 , 1967 
- - - - - - - - -- 

- - - - 

SO S 

_ - - 
TRIPURA 

ASSAM 
Throughout the Union Territory : 

1 . In the Autonomous Districts : 
1 . Bagdi. 

1 . Chukma 
2 . Baiti , 

2 Dimasa (Kachari ) 
3 . Bhuimall. 

3 . Garo 
4 . Bhunar 

4 . Hajong 
5 . Chamar or Mochi. 

5 . Hmar 
6 . Dandasi 

6 . Khasi and Jaintia ( including Khasi, Synteng or 
7 . Dhenuar 

Pnar , War , Bhol or Lyngngam ). 
8 . Dhoba 
9 . Duai 

7 . Any Kuki Tribes, including: - 
10 . Dum . 
11. Ghasi 

(i) Biate or Bietę 
12 . Gour 

( ii) Changsan 
13 . Gunar 

( iii ) Chongloi 
14 . Gur 

( iv ) Doungel 
15 . Gorang 

( v ) Gamalhou 
16 . Jalia Kaibarta 

( vi ) Gangte 
17 . Kahar 

(vii ) Guite 
18 . Kalindi 

( viii ) Hanneng 
19 . Kan 

( ix ) Haokip or Haupit 
20. Kanda 

( x ) Haolaj 
21. Kanugh 

( xi) Hengna 
22, Keot 

(xii ) Hongsungh 
23. Khadit 

( xiii ) Hrangkhwal or Rangkhol 
24 . Kharia 

(xiv ) Jongbe 
25 . Khemcha 

(XV ) Khawchung 
26 . Koch 

( xyl) Khawathlang or Khothalong 
27 . Koir 

( xvii) Khelma 
28 . Kol 

( xviii ) Kholhou 
29 . Kora 

(xix ) Kipgen 
30 . Kotal 

( xx ) Kuki 
31. Mahisyadas . 

(xxi) Lengthang 
32 . Mali 

(xxii) Lhangum 
33 . Mehtor 

(xxiii ) Lhoujem 
34 . Musahar 

( xxiv ) Lhouvun 
35 . Namsudra 

(xxv ) Lupheng 
36 . Patni 

( xxvi) Mangjel 
37. Sabar 

(xxvii) Misao 
APPENDIX V 

(xxviii) Riang 

(xxix ) Sairhei 
A candidate shall be held to be a member of the 

( xxx ) Selnam 
Scheduled Tribes if he belongs to one of the Tribes 

( xxxi) Singson 
specified in the list below under the State (area ) in 

( xxxii ) Sitlhou 
which he and his family ordinarily reside . 

( xxxiii ) Sukte 

(xxxiv ) Thado 
LIST OF SCHEDULED TRIBES 

( xxxv ) Thangngeu 
ANDHRA PRADESH 

( xxxvi) Uibuh 
1 . Throughout the State : 

( xxxvii ) Vaiphel 
1. Chenchu or Chenchwar 

8 . Lakher 
2 . Koya or Goud with its sub - sects — Rajah or 

9 . Man ( Tai- Spealing ) 
Rasha Koyas, Lingadhari Koyas ( ordinary ) , 

10 . Any Mizo ( Lushai) Tribes 
Kottu Koyas, Bhinc Koya and Rajkoya. 

11. Mikir 

12. Any Naga tribes 
2 . Throughout the State except Hyderabad , Mahbub 

13 . Pawi 
nagar, Adilabad , Nizamabad , Medak , Karimnagar , 

14 . Synteng 
Warangal, Khammam and Nalgonda districts : 
1 . Bagata 

2. In the Tribal Areas other than the Autonomou . 
2 . Gadabas 

Districts : 
3 . Jatapus 

All Tribes of North - East Frontier Agency including - . 
4 . Kammara 
5 . Kattunayakan 

1 . Abor 
6 . Konda Dhoras 

2 . Aka 
7 . Konda Kapus 

3 . Apatani 
8 . Kondareddis 

4 . Dafla 
9 . Kondhs (Kodi and Kodhu ) , Desaya Kondhs, 

5 . Galong 
Dongria Kondis, Kuttiya Kondhs, Tikirja 

6 . Khampti 
Kondhs and Yenity Kondhs 

7 . Khowa 
10 . Kotia -Bentho Oriya , Bartika, Dhulia or Dulia , 

8 . Mishmi 
Holva , Paiko, Putiya , Sanrona and Sidhopaiko 

9 . Momba 
11 . Kulla 

10 . Any Naga tribes 
12 . Malis 

11. Sherdukpen 
13. Manna Dhora 

12 . Singpho 
14 . Mukha Dhora or Nooka Dhora 
15 . Porja ( Parangiperja ) 

3 . In the State of Assam excluding the Tribal 
16 . Reddi Dhoras 

Arcas: 
17 . Rona , Rena 

1 . Barmans in Cachar 
18 . Savaras -Kapu Savaras , Maliya Savaras or 

2 . Boro - Borokachari 
Khutto Savaras 
19 . Sugalis ( Lambadis ) 

3 . Doori. 
20. Yenadis 

4 . Hojai 
21. Yerukulas 

5 . Kachari including Sonwal 

6 . Lalung 
3 . In the districts of Hyderabad, Mahbubnagar , 

7 . Mech 
Adilabad , Nizamabad , Medak , Karimnagar, Warangal, 

8 . Miri 
Khammam and Nalgonda : - -- 

9 . Rabha 
1 . Andh 
2 . Bhil 

BIHAR 
3. Gond _ (including Naikpod and Rajgond ) 
4 . Hill Reddis 

1 . Throughout the State: - - 
5 . Kolam ( including Manncrvarlu ) 

1 . Asur 
8 . Pardhan 

2 . Baiga 
7 . Thoti 

3 . Banjara 

4 . Bathudi 
4 . In the Agency tracts: - 

5 . Bedia 
1. Goudų (Goud ) 

8 . Binjhia 
2 . Nayaks 

7 . Birhor 
3 . Valmiki 

8 . Blrjla . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 16 , 1957 

[PART I - Sev. 1 
- - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - -- - - - - - 
9 . Chero 

6 . ( a ) In Ahmednagar District : 
10 . Chik Baralk 

Akola , Raghuri and Sangamner 
11 . Gond 

talukas 
12 . Gorait 

( b ) In Kolaba District: -- - 
13 . Ho 

Karjat , Khalapur , Pen , Pavil 
14 . Karmali 

and Sudhagad talukas and Thakur Or 
15 . Kharia 

Matheran 

Thakar includ 
16 . Kharwar 

( c ) In Nasik District : 

ing Ka Thal 
17 . Khond 

Igatpuri, Nasik and Sinner Ka Thakur, 
18 . Kisan 

talukas 

Ma Thakur 
19 . Kora 

( d ) In Poona District: - - 

and Ma 
20 . Korwa 

Ambegaon , Junnar, Khed and Thakar 
21. Lohara or Lohra 

Mawal talukas 
22 , Mahli 

( e ) In Thana District : - 
23. Mal Paharia 

Thana , Kalyan , Murbad , 
24 . Munda 

Bhiyandi, Bassein , Wada , 
25 . Oraon 

Shahapur, Palghar, Jawhar 
26 . Parhaiya 

and Mokhada talukas 
27. Santal 
28 . Sauria Paharia 

7 . In (1) Melghat tahsil of the Amravati District, 
29 . Savar 

( 2 ) Gadchiroli and Sironcha tahsils of the 
2 . In the districts of Ranchi, Singbhum , Hazaribagh , 

Chanda District, 
Santal Parganas and Manbhum : 

( 3 ) Kelapur , Wani and Yeotma ) tahsis of the 
Bhumij 

Yeotmal District: 

1 . Andh 
BOMBAY 

2 . Baiga 

3 . Bhaina 
1. Throughout the State except the districts of 

4 . Bharia - Bhumia or Bhuinhar - Bhumia including 
Buldana Akola , Amravati, Yeotmal, Wardha , Nagpur, 

Pando 
Bhandara , Chanda, Aurangabad , Parbhani, Nanded 

5 . Bhattra 
Bihr, Osmanabad , Falar, Madhya Saurashtra , 

6 . Bhil 
Zalawad , Gohilwad , Sorath and Kutch : 

7 . Bhunjia 
1 . Barda 

8 . Binjhwar 

9 . Birhul or Birhor 
2 . Bavacha or Bamcha 

10. Dhanwar 
3 . Bhil, including Bhil Garasia , Dholi Bhil Dungri 

11, Gadaba or Gadba 
Bhil, Dungri, Garasia , Mewasi Bhil, Rawal Bhil 

12. Gond, including : - 
Tadvi Bhil , Bhagalla , Bhilala , Pawra , Vasava 
and Vasave 

Arakh or Arrakh 

Agaria 
4 . Chodhara 

Asur 
5 . Dhanka , including Tadvi, Tetaria and Valvi 

Badi Maria or Bada Maria 
6 . Dhodia 

Bhatola 

Bhimma 
7 . Dubla, including Talavia or Halpati 

Bhuta , Koilabhuta or Koilabhuli 
8 . Gamit or Gamta or Gavit, including Mavchi, 

Bhar 
Padvi, Vasava , Vasave and Valvi 

Bisonhorn Maria 

Chota Maria 
9. Gond or Rajgond 

Dandami Maria 
10 . Kathodi or Katkari, including Dhor Kathodi or 

Dhuru or Dhurwa 
Dhor Katkari and Son Kathodi or Son Katkari 

Dhoba 
11. Kokna, Kokni, Kukna 

Dhulia 

Dorla 
12 . Koli Dhor, Tokre Koli, Kolcha or Kolgha 

Gaiki 
13. Naikda or Nayaka, including Cholivala Nayaka, 

Gatta or Gatti 
Kapadia Nayaka, Mota Nayaka and Nana 

Gaita 
Nayaka 

Gond Gowari 
14 . Pardhi, including Advichincher and Phanse 

Hill Maria 
Pardhi 

Kandra 

Kalanga 
15 . Patelia 

Khatola 
16 . Pomla 

Koitar 
17 . Rathawa 

Koya 

Khirwar or Khirwara 
18 . Varli 

Kucha Maria 
19 . Vitolia , Kotwalia or Barodia 

Kuchaki Maria 

Madia (Maria ) 
2. In Danga District : 

Mana 

Mannewer 
Kunbi 

Moghya or Mogia or Monghya. 

Mudia (Murla ) 
3. In Surat District: 

Nagarchi 

Nagwanshi 
Chaudhri 

Ojha . 
Raj. 

Sonjhari Jhareka 
4 . In Thana District : 

Thatia or Thotya 

Wade Maria or Vade Maria 
Koli Malhar 

13 . Halba or Halbi. 
6 . ( a ) In Ahmednagar District: - ? 

14, Kamar , 
Akola , Rahuri and Sangamner ? 

15. Kawar, Kanwar, Kaur, Cherwa, Rathla Tanwar 
talukas 

or Chattri. 
(b ) In Kolaba District: 

16 . Khairwar 
Karjat, Khalapur, Alibagh , 

17 . Kharia 
Mahad and Sudhagad talukas 

18 . Kondh or Khond or Kandh 
( c ) In Nasik District: -- 

19 . Kol 
Nasik , Niphad, Sinnar, Chandor , 

20 . Kolam 
Baglan , Igatpuri, Dindori and 

21. Korku , including Bopchi, Mouasi, Nihal or 
Kalvan talukas and Koll Mahadev 

Nahul and Bondhi or Bondeya 
Surgana and Peint Mahals 

or 

22 . Korwa, including Kodaku 
( d ) In Poona District : 

Dongar Koli 

23. Majhwar 
Ambegaon , Junnar, Khed , 

24 . Munda 
Mawal and Mulshi talukas 

25 . Nagesja or Nagasia 
and Velhe Mahal 

26. Nihal 
( e ) In Thana District 

27 . Oraon , including Dhanka and Dhangad 
Thana, Murbad , Bhivandi, 

28 . Pardhan , Pathari and Saroti 
Bassein , Wada, Shahapur , 

29 . Pardhi, including Bahella or Bahellia . Chita 
Dhanu Palghar , Umbergain , 

Pardhi, Langoli Pardhi, Phans Pardhi, Shikari, 
Jawhar and Mokhada talukas 

Takankar and Takla 


PART I - SE 1 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 16 , 1957 


71 


TT 


30 . Parja . 
31. Saonta or Saunta . 
32. Sawar or Sawara . 
8 . In the districts of Aurangabad, Parbhani, Nanded , 
Bhir and Osmanabad : - 

1 . Andh . 
2 . Bhil. 
3 . Gond ( including Naikpod und Rajgond ) . 
4 . Kolam ( including Manneryarlu ) . 
5 . Koya (including Bhine Koya and Rajkoya ) . 
6 . Pardhati. 

7 . Thoti. 
9 . In the Districts of Halar, Madhya Suurashtra, 
Zalawad , Gohilwad and Sorath : - 

Siddi. 
10 . In Nesses arca in the forests of Alech , Gir and 
Barada : — 

1 . Bharwad . 
2 . Charan . 

3 . Rabari. 
11, In Zalawad District : -- 

Padhar 
12 . In Kutch District : 

1. Bhil. 
2 . Dhodia . 
3 . Koli, 
4 . Paradhi, 
5 . Vaghri. 


KERALA 
1. Throughout the State : -- 

1 . Kadar. 
2 . Irular or Irulan . 
3 . Muthuvan , Mudugar or Muduyan , 


2 Throughout the State except Malabar district : 

1 . Eravallan 
2 . Hill Pulaya , 
3 . Kanikaran or Kanikkar. 
4 . Kochu Velan . 
6 . Malakkuravan , 
6 . Malai Arayan , 
7 . Malai Pandaram . 
8 . Malai Vedan . 
9 . Malayan . 
10 . Malayarayar . 
11. Mannan . 
12. Palleyan . 
13. Palliyar . 
14 . Ulladan (Hill dwellers ) . 
15 . Uraly . 
16 . Vishavan . 


2 . In the revenue districts of Dhar and Jhabua ; in the 
tehsils of Şendhwa Barwani, Rajpur, Kharagone, Bhi 
kangaon and Maheshwar of the revenue district of 
Ninjar; in the tahsil of Sallana of the revenue dls 
trict of Katlam 

Bhils and Bhilalas including Barela , Patella and 
other sub - tribes. 

3 . In ( 1 ) Bastar , Chhindwara , Mandla . Raigarh and 
Surguja districts , ( 2 ) Balhar tahsil of the Balaghat dis 
trict , ( 3 ) Betul and Bhainsdehi tahsils of the Betul dis 
trict, ( 4 ) Bilaspur and Katghora tahylls of the Bilaspur 
district , (5 ) Durg and Sanjari tahsils of the Durg dis 
trict, ( 6 ) Murwura , Patan and Sihora tahsils of the 
Jabalpur district , ( 7 ) Hoshangabad , Narsinmhapur and 
Sohagpur tahsils of the Hoshangabad district, ( 8 ) Har 
sud tahsil of the Nimar district, ( 9 ) Bindra -Nawagarh , 
Dhamtari and Mahasamund tahsils of the Raipur 
district: 

1 . Andh . 
2 . Balga . 
3 . Bhaina . 
4 . Bharia -Bhumla or Bhuinhar- Bhumia including 

Pando 
5 . Bhattra . 
6 . Bhil 
7 . Bhunjia . 
8 . Binjhwar . 
9 . Birhul or Birhor , 
10 . Dhanwar . 
11. Gadaba or Gadba. 
12 , Gond , including 

Arakh or Arrakh . 
Agaria . 
Asur. 
Badi Maria or Bada Maria . 
Bhatola . 
Bhimma. 
Bhuta , Kollabhuta or Koilabhuti, 
Bh & r 
Brosonhorn Maria . 
Chota Maria . 
Dandami Maria . 
Dhuru or Dhurwa. 
Dhoba . 
Dhulia , 
Dorla . 
Gaiki, 
Gatta or Gatti, 
Galta , 
Gund Gowari, 
Hill Maria . 
Kandra . 
Kalanga 
Khatola . 
Koltar, 
Коуда . 
Khirwar or Khirwara . 
Kucha Marta . 
Kuchaki Maria . 
Madia (Maria ) . 
Mana . 
Manewer , 
Moghya or Mogia or Morghya , 
Mudia (Murla ) . 
Nagarchi. 
Nag wanshi 
Ojha . 
Raj. 
Sonjharl Jhareka. 
Thatia or Thotya . 

Wade Maria or Vade Maria . 
13 . Halba or Halbi, 
14 . Kamar. 
15. Kawar , Kanwar, Kaur, Cherwa, Rathia , Tan 

war or Chattri. 
18 . Khairwar , 
17 Kharia . 
18 . Kondh or Khond or Kandh . 
19 . Kol, 
20 . Kolain , 
21. Korku , including Bopchi, Mouasi, Nihal or 

Nahul and Bondhi or Bondeya . 
22, Korwa, including kodaku , 
23 . Majhwar . 
24 . Munda 
25 . Nagesia or Nagasla . 
26 . Nihal. 
27. Oraon , including Dhanka and Dhangad . 
28 . Pardhan , Pathari and Saroti. 
29. Pardhi, including Bahelia or Bahella , Chita 

Pardhi. Langoli Pardhi. Phans Pardhi , Shi 

kari, Takankar and Takia . 
30 . Parja . 
31 Saonta or Saunta , 
32 . Sawar or Sawara , 


3 . In Malabar district : 

1. Adiyan . 
2 . Açandan . 
3 . Kammara . 
4 . Kattunayakan . 
5 . Konda Kupus . 
6 . Kondareddis . 
7. Koraga . 
8 . Kota . 
9 . Kudiya or Melakudı. 
10 . Kurichchan . 
11 . Kurumans. 
12. Maha Malasar . 
13 . Malasar . 
14. Malayekandi. 
15 . Palliyan . 
16 . Paniyan . 

17. Pulayan . 
4 . In Malabar district ( excluding Kasaragod taluk ) :-- - 

Kurumbas, 
5. In Kasaragod taluk of Malabar district: 

Marati. 


MADHYA PRADESH 


1 . In the districts of Bhind , Gird , Morena, Shivpuri, 
Goona, Rajgarh , Shajapur, Ujjain , Ratlam , Mandsaur, 
Bhilsa (oxcluding Sironj sub - division ) , Indore , 
Dewas , Dhar, Jhabua and Nimar ( M . B .) : - 


l . Gond . 
2 . Korku 
3 . Seharia , 


72 


THE GAZETTE OF İNDIA , FEBRUARY 16, 1957 


[ PART 1- - Sec. 1 


MYSORE 
1. Throughout the State except Coorg, Belgaum , 
Bijapur, Dharwar, Kanara , South Kanara , Gulbarga, 
Raichur and Bidar districts and Kollegal taluk of 
Mysore district : 


1 . Gowdalu , 
2 . Hakkipikki, 
3 Hasalaru . 
4 . Iruliga , 
5 . Jenu Kuruba 
6 . Kadu -Kur uba. 
7 . Malaikudi. 
8 . Maleru . 
9 . Soligaru , 


4 . In the districts of Datia , Tikamgarh , Chhatarpur, 

Panna, Satna , Rewa , Sidhi and Shahdol:~ 
1 . Agariya , 
2 . Baiga . 
3 . Bhil. 
4 . Biar or Biyar, 
5 . Bhumiya including Bharia and Paliha . 
6 Gond , including Pathari. 
7 . Khairwar including Kondar. 
8 . Kol (Dahait ) 
9 . Majhi. 
10 . Mawasi, 
11. Nat, Navdigar , Sapera and Kubutar. 
12. Panika , 
13. Pao 
14 . Sahariya . 
15 . Saur, 
16 , Sonr . 
5 . In the districts of Raisen and Sehore :- -- 

1 . Bhi . 
2 . Bhilala 
3 . Gond or Daroi 
4 . Karku, 
5 . Keer . 
6 . Kol. 
7 . Mogia . 
8 . Pardhi. 

9 . Saharia , Sosia or Sor , 
6 . In Sironj sub - division of Bhilsa district : 

1. Bhil . 
2 . Bhil Mina . 
3 . Damor, Damarla . 
4 . Garasla ( excluding Rajput Garasia ) . 
6 . Mina . 
6 . Sehria , Sahariya . 


2 . In the districts of Belgaum , Bijapur, Dharwar 
und Kanara : 

1, Barda . 
2 Bavacha or Bamcba . 
3 . Bhil, including Bhil Garasia , Dholi Bhil, Dungri 

Bhil, Dungri Garasla , Mewasi Bhil, Rawal 
Bhil, Tadvi Bhil, Bhagalla , Bhilala , Pawra , 

Vasavu and Vasave. 
4 . Chodhara . 
5 . Dhanka including Tadyi, Tetaria and Valvi. 
6 . Dhodla . 
7 . Dubla , including Talavía or Halpati, 
8 . Gamit or Gamta or Gavit including Mavchi, 

Padvi, Vasava , Vasave and Valvi. 
9 . Gond or Rajgond 
10 . Kathodi or Katkari including Dhor Kathodi or 

Dhor Katkari and Son Kathodi or Son 

Katkari, 
11 . Kokna , Kokni, Kukna . 
12 . Koli Dhor, Tokre Koli, Kolcha or Kolgha , 
13 . Naikda or Nayaka , including Cholivala Nayaka, 

Kapadia Nayaka, Mota Nayaka and Nana 

Nayaka , 
14 . Pardhi, including Advichincher and Phanse 

Pardhi. 
15 . Patelia . 
16 Pomla 
17. Rathawa. 
18 Varli. 
19 . Vitolla , Kotwalia or Barodia . 


3 . In the districts of Gulbarga . Bidar and Raichur : 

1. Bhil. 
2 . Chenchu or Chenchwar , 
3 . Gond ( including Naikpod and Rajgond ) . 
4 . Koya (including Bhine Koya and Rajkoya ) . 
5 Thoti. 


4 . In South Kanara district and Kollegal taluk of 
Mysore district: 


MADRAS 
1 . Throughout the State : 

1 . Kadar. 

2 . Irular . 
2 . Throughout the State except Kanye Kumari dis 
trict and Shencottah taluk of Tirunelveli district : 

1. Adiyan . 
2 . Aranadan 
3 . Kammara . 
4 . Kattunayakan . 
5 . Konda Kapus, 
6 . Kondareddls . 
7 . Koraga , 
8 . Kota . 
9 Kudiya or Melakudi. 
10 . Kurichchan . 
11. Kurumans. 
12 . Maha Malasar . 
13 . Malasar . 
14 . Malayekandi. 
15 . Mudugar or Muduvan , 
16 . Palliyan 
17 . Paniyan , 
18 . Pulayan , 
19 . Sholaga . 
20. Toda. 
3 . In North Arcot, Salem and Tiruchirapalli dis 
tricts : 

Malayali, 
4 . In Coimbatore district and Tirunelveli district 
except Shencottah taluk ) ; 

Kaniyan or Kanyan , 
5 . In Nilgiris district :-- 

Kurumbas . 
8 . In Kanya Kumari district and Shencottah taluk 
of Tirunelvell district : 

1 . Eravallan . 
2 . Hill Pulaya , 
3 . Kanikaran or Kanikkar, 
4 . Kochu Velan . 
5 . Malakkuravan . 
6 . Malai Arayan 
7 . Malai Pandaram , 
8 . Malai Vedan 
9 . Malayan . 
10 . Malayarayar . 
11 . Mannan . 
12 . Muthuvan , 
13 Palleyan . 
14 . Palliyar . 
15 . Ulladan (HIII dwellers ) , 
16 . Uraly . 
17, Vishavan , 


1 . Adiyan . 
2 . Aranadan 
3 . Irular. 
4 . Kadar . 
5 . Kammara . 
6 Kattunayakan , 
7 . Konda Kapus. 
8 . Kufidareddis . 
9 . Koraga . 
10, Kota . 
11 . Kudiya or Melakudi, 
12 . Kurichchan 
13 . Kurumans. 
14 . Maha Malagar . 
15 . Malasar. 
16 . Malayekandi, 
17 . Mudugar or Muduvan 
18 Palliyan 
12 . Paniyan . 
20 . Pulayan 
21. Sholaga . 
22 . Toda , 


5 . In Kollegal taluk of Mysore district : 

Kaniyan or Kanyan . 


In South Kanara district : 

Marati 


7 . In Coorg district: 

1 Korama. 
2 . Kudlya , 
3 . Kuruba . 
4 . Maratha . 
5 . Meda . 
6 . Yerava . 


PART I - SE -, 11 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 16 , 1957 


ORISSA 


4 . Chodhara 
5 . Dhanka , including Tadvi, Tetaria and Valvi 
6 . Dhodia 
7 . Dubla , including Talavía or Halpati 
8 . Gamit or Gamta or Gavit, including Mavchi, 

Padvi, Vagava, Vasave and Valvi 
9 . Gond or Rajgond 
10 . Kathodl or Katkari, including Dhor Kathodi or 

Dhor Katkari and Son Kathodi or Son Kat 

kari 
11. Kokna, Kokni, Kukna 
12 . Koli Dhor , Tokre Koli , Kolcha or Kolgha 
13. Naikda or Nayaka, including Chollvala Nayaka, 

Kapadia Nayaka , Mota Nayaka and Nana 

Nayaka 
14 . Pardhi, including Advichincher and Phange 

Pardhi 
15 . Patella 
16 . Pomla 
17 . Rathawa 
18 . Varli 
19 . Vitolla , Kotwalia or Barodia . 
4 . In Sunel Tappa of Jhnlawar district: 

1 . Gond 
2 . Korku 
3 . Seharia 


Throughout the State : 

1 . Bagata . 
2 , Baiga . 
3. Banjara or Banjart 
4 . Bathudi , 
5 . Bhottada or Dhotada 
6 . Bhuiya or Bhuyan . 
7 . Bhumia . 
8 . Bhumij. 
9 . Bhunjia . 
10 . Binjhal. 
11 Binjhia or Binghoa. 
12 . Birhor . 
13. Bondo Poraja . 
14 . Chenchu . 
15 . Dal. 
16 . Desua Bhumij. 
17 . Dharua 
18 . Didayi. 
19 . Gadaba . 
20 . Gandia . 
21 . Ghara . 
22 . Gond , Gondo . 
23 Ho . 
24 . Holya . 
25 . Jatapu . 
26 . Juang . 
27. Kandha Gauda, 
28 Kawar . 
29 . Kharla or Kharian . 
30 . Kharwar 
31, Khond , Kond , or Kandha , including Nanguli 

Kandha and Sitha Kandha . 
32 . Kisan . 
33 Kol 
34 . Kolah -Kol-Loharas. 
35 . Kolha . 
36. Koli, including Malhar. 
37. Kondadora . 
38 Kora . 
39. Korua . 
40 . Kotia . 
41. Koya . 
42 . Kulis . 
43 Lodha . 
44 . Madiu . 
45 . Mahall 
46 . Mankidi. 
47 . Mankirdia . 
48 Matya . 
49. Mirdhas, 
50. Munda , Munda - Lohara or Munda -Mahalis . 
51. Mundari. 
52. Omanatya . 
53 . Oraon 
54 , Parenga 
55 . Paroja 
56 , Pentia 
57 . Rajuar 
58. Santal 
59. Saora , Savar, Saura or Sahara 
60 . Shabar or Lodha 
01. Sounti 
62 , Tharua 


WEST BENGAL 
1. Throughout the State :-- 

1 . Ho 
2 . Kora 
3 . Lodha , Kheria or Kharia 
4 . Mal Paharlya 
5 . Munda 
6 . Oraon 

7 . Santal 
2 . Throughout the State except the territories from 
The Purnea district of Bihar : 

• Bhumi) 


3. Throughout the State except in the Purulia dis 
trict and the territories transferred from the Purnea 
district of Bihar : - 
1. Bhutia including Sherpa, Toto , Dukpa, Kagatay, 

Tibetan and Yolmo 
2 . Chakma 
3 . Garo 
4 . Pajang 
5 . Lepcha 
6 . Magh 
7 , Mahall 
8 . Mech 
9 . Mru 
10. Nagesia 
11, Rabha 


PUNJAB 
In Spili and Lahaul in Kangra district: 

J . Gaddi 
2 . Swangla 
3 . Bhot or Bodh 


4 . In the Purulia district and the territories trans 
ferred froin the Purnea district of Bihar: 

1. Asur 
2 . Baiga 
3 . Banjara 
4 . Bathudi 
5 , Bedia 
6 , Binjhia 
7 . Birhor 
8 . Birjia 
9 . Chero 
10 , Chik Baraik 
11 . Gond 
12 . Goralt 
13 . Karmali 
14 . Kharwar 
15 , Khond 
16 . Kisan 
17 . Korwa 
18 . Lohara Or Lohra 
19 . Mahli 
20 . Parhaiya 
21. Sauria Paharia 
22 . Savur 


RAJASTHAN 
1 . Throughout the State except Ajmer district, Abu 
Road taluka of Sirohi district and Sunel Tappa of 
Jhalawar district: 

1 . Bhil 
2 . Bhil Mina 
3 . Damor, Damaria 
4 . Gurasia ( excluding Rajput Garasia ) 
5 . Mina 

6 . Şehria , Sahariya 
2 . In Ajmer district : 

1 . Bhil 

2 . Bhil Mina 
3 . In Abu Road taluka of Sirohi district. 

1 . Barda 
2 . Bavacha or Bamcha 
3 , Bhil , including Bhil Garasia , Dholi Bhil, Dungri 

Bhil, Dungri Garasia , Mewasi Bhil , Rewal 
Bhil , Tadvi Bhil, Bhagalia , Bhilala , Pawara , 
Vasava and Vasave. 


HIMACHAL PRADESH 
Throughout the Union Territory :--- 

1 . Gaddi 
2 . Gujjar 
3. Jad , Lamba , Khampa and Bhot or Bodh 
4 , Kanaura or Kinnara 
5 . Lahaula 
B . Pangwala 


74 


- 


- 


- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 16 , 1957 

[ PART T - Sec . 1 

-- - --- - - - - - - 
MANIPUR 

MINISTRY OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND 

SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH 
Throughout the Union Territory : 
1 , Aimol 

New Delhi, the 6th February 1957 
2 . Anal 
3 . Angami 

No. 6 (24 ) /55 . — MIV :- In this Ministry s Notification 
4 . Chiru 

No. 6 ( 24 ) /55 -MIV , duted the 28th December , 1956 , 
5 . Chothe 

published in part I section I of the Gazette of India , 
6 . Gangte 

dated the 5th January , 1957, regarding reconstitution 
7 . Hmar 

of the Mica Advisory Committec the following amend 
8 . Kabui 

ments shall be made, namely : 
9 . Kacha Naga 
10 . Koirao 

For " Director of Mines and Geology, Governnient 
11. Koireng 

of Andhra " read " Director of Mines and 
12. Kom 

Geology , Government of Andhra Pradesh " . 
13 . Lamgang 
14 . Any Mizo (Lushai ) tribos 

G . C . JERATH , Under Secy . 
15 . Maram 
16 . Maring 
17 . Mao 
18 . Monsang 

RESOLUTION 
19 . Moyon 
20 . Palte 

New Delhi, the 7th Febrilary 1957 
21. Purum 
22 . Ralte 

No. 20 ( 2 ) / 56 -MIV . — The Government of India have 
23. Sema, 

decided , on the advice of the Mineral Advisory Board , 
24 . Simte 

to constitute a Committee to investigate the problems 
25 . Sabte 

relating to the benefication oť low grade ores, parti 
26 . Tangkhul 

cularly manganese ore in Rajasthan and Western India , 
27. Thadou 

The Committee will examine tho possibilities of estab 
28. Vaiphui 

lishment of Customs Mills or other co - operative ar 
29. Zou 

rangements for the purpose of beneficiating low grade 
TRIPURA 

ores . The composition of the Committee will be is 

follows: 
Throughout the Union Territory 
1 . Lushat 

Chairman 
2 . Mag 
3. Kuki, including the following sub -tribes : 

Shri J. D . Kapudixi , I. C . S ., Secretary to the Goverri 
( 1 ) Balte 

ment of Bombay 
( ii ) Belalhut 
(li) Chhalya 

Members 
( iv ) Fun 
( v ) Hajango 

Representatires of the Central Government and 
(vi ) Jangtel 

Hiilways 
(vii) Khareng 
( viii ) Khephong 

1. Director , Indian Bureau of Mines, New Delbi. 
(1x ) Kuntet 

2 . The Chicf Operating Superintendent, 
( x ) Laitang 

Western 
(xi) Lentel 

Railway . Bombay . 
( xil ) Mizel 

3. The Chief Operating Superintendent, 
(xiii) Namte 

Southern 

Railway, Madras 
( xiv ) Paitu , Paite 
( xv ) Rangchan 

Reportsentatives of the State Gorernments . 
( xyl) Rangkhole 
( xvii ) Thangluya 

1. Director of Industries, Bombay. 
4 , Chakma 
5 . Garoo 

2 . Director of Mines, Rajasthan , 
6 . Chalmal 
7 . Halam 

Representatives of the Mineral Industry . 
8 . Khasia 

1. Shri B . Pattnaik (Mine Owner ) M .L A ., Tulsipur, 
9 . Bhutia 

Cuttack . 
10 . Munda including Kaur 
11. Orang 

3. Shri B . M . Gogte , C / 0 . The Bumbay State Mine 
12 . Lepcha 

owners Association , Londa (Bombay ) . 
13 . Santal 
14 . Bhil 

3. Shri Ilari Bhai J . Shah , ( 70 . Natwarlal Shyamal 
15 . Tripura or Tripuri, Tippera 

Dass Vura , Dahod , Rajasthan . 
16 . Jamatia 
17. Noatia 

4 . A representative of the Mineral Industry in 
18. Riang 

Madhya Pradesh , 
19 . Uchai 

NOTI , - - The Committee may ( 0 -opt any other person 
THE LACCADIVE , MINICOY AND AMINDIVI 

able to advise on any special aspect of the problem 
ISLANDS 

betore them . 
Troughout the Union Territory . 

2 The Committee will submit its report to the Gov 
Inbabitants of the Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi crnınent of India within three months of the rate of 
Islands who , and both of whose parrenis , were born this Resolution 
in those Islands" . 
D . C . BAIJAL , Secy . 

ORDER 
MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS 

Ordered that this Resolution be communicated to all 
Rallway Board 

State Governmenls , the several Ministrios of the Gov 
New Delhi, the 8th February 1957 

ernment of India , Prime Minister s Secretariat, Cabinet 
No . 56 / W / 160 / 12 . — It is herehy notified for general 

Secretariat, Parliament Secretariat , the Private and 
information that the Government Inspector of Rail Military Secretaries to the President. the Planning 

Commission , the Comptroller and Auditor-General of 
ways , Calcutta , having inspected the new Branch Line 
between Champa und Korba of the Bilaspur District India , the Accountant General, Central Revenues , the 
of the South Eastern Railway , a length of 23.81 miles Director Indian Bureau of Mines . Director, Geological 
on Broad Gauge, authorised its opening for the publir Survey of India , Calcutta , Department of Atonic 

Energy, Bombay . Geological Adviser to the Govern 
carriage of passengers with elect from 20th December , 
1956 . 

ment of India , New Delhi 
The Railway Board after considering the Report of 

Ordered also that this Resolution be published in 
the Government Inspector of Railways , Calcutta , have 

the Guzette of India for general information 
conf) rmed his action , 
B . C . GANGULI, For Secy 

RN VASUDEVA Dy . Şery. 


75 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


PART I - SEC . 11 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 16 , 1957 
- - - - - 

- - - - 

- - 

- 

- - -- - 
MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

2 . Regional Oficer Central Board of Film Censors . 

Bombay - Ex -officio member. 
New Delhi, the 13th February 1957 

3 . Shri B . R . Dhurandhar . Member , Bombay Ad 
No. 14 / 7 / 56 - FD . - In pursuance of the Resolution of 

visory Panel, Central Board of Film Censors . 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Information 

4 . Dr. D . G . Vyas, 
and Broadcasting No. 1 / 51 /54 - F , dated the 2nd Feb 
ruary , 1955 , the Central Government hereby re 

5 . Shri D , N . Marshall. 
constitutes the Film Advisory Board , Bombay with 

6 . Shri D . P . Wagle . 
effect from the 16th February , 1957 and appoints the 

7. Shrimati Kamla Bhoota . 
following as its members with effect from the same 
date : 

8 . Shri Vijay Bhatt. 

9 . Shri M . B , Billimoria , 
1. Chairman , Central Board of Film Censors 
Er -officio Chairman . 

V . P . PANDIT Under Secy 


