REGISTERED No. D. 221 


" ^ ' S "S" 


< Htc (Sage tte 



Os* 


of Inbia 




PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 5] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGHA 12, 1879 


NOTICE 

The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 22nd January 
195S : — 


No. and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


25 S. R. O. 252, dated the ijth Ministry of Steel, 
January 1958. Mines and Fuel. 


S.R.O. 253, dated the 15th | Ditto. 
January 1958. 


Acquiring of land specified 
in the schedules therein for the 
purpose of the development of 
State Collieries. 

Notice of intention to prospect 
for coal from the land men- 
tioned in the schedule there- 


S.R.O, 254, dated the 15th Ditto. 

January 1958. 


Notice of intention to prospect 
for coal from the land men- 
tioned in the schedule thcre- 


S.R.O. 255, dated the 15th Ditto. 

January 1958. 


Notice of intention to prospect- 
for coal front the land men- 
tioned in the schedule there 


S.R.O. 256, dated the 15th 
January, 195S. 


Notice of intention to prospect 
for coal from the land men- 
tioned in the schedule there- 


S.R.O. 257, dated the 15th 
January 1958, 


Notice of intention to prospect 
for coal from the land men- 
tioned in the schedule there- 


I S.R.p. 258, dated the 15th 
January 1958, 


Notice of intention to prospect 
for coal from the land men- 
tioned in the schedule tliere- 


S.R.O. 259, dated the 15th Ditto. 

January 1958. 


Notice of intention to prospect 
for coal from the land men- 
tioned in the schedule thcre- 


( 201 J 



202 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 1 . 1958 /MAGHA 12 , 1879 [Past. II 

Issue 

No. 

No. and date 

Issued by 

Subject 

26 

S.R.O. 260, dated the i6th 
January 1958. 

Ministry of Finance. 

Draft of the Customs and Excise 
Duties Drawback (Linolet m) 
Rules, 1958. 


S.R.O, 261, dated the 16th 
January 1958. 

Ditto. 

Draft of the Customs and Excise 
Duties Drawback (Trailers) 

Rules, 1938. 

27 

S.R.O. 262, dated the 17th 
January 1958. 

Ministry of Infor- 
mation and Broad- 
casting. 

Certification of films to be of the 
description specified therein. 

27-A 

S.R.O. 262-A, dated the 16th 
January 1958. 

Ministry of Law 

The Constitution (Application to 
Jammu and Kashmir) Amend- 
ment Order, 1958 (C.O. 

55 )- 

28 

S.R.O. 263, dated the 14th 
January 1958, j 

Ministry of Food and 
Agriculture. 

Amendment made in the Madras 
Rice Mills Licensing Order 
1955 . 

29 1 

1 

S.R.O. 264, dated the 18th 
January 1958. 

Ditto. 

Delegation of powers to the 
Government of Kerala in re- 
lation to stocks of rice, under 
the Essential Commodities Act, 
1955 . 

3 o 

S.R.O. 263, dated the nth 
January 1958. 

Election Commis- 
sion, India, 

Election Petition No. 239 of 
1957 . 

31 

S.R.O. 266 , dated the 18th 
January 1958. 

Ministry of Finance, 

Nomination of Shri H. M. Patet 
to be a Director of the Central 
Board of the Reserve Bank 
of India. 

32 

S.R.O. 267, dated the 18th 
January 1958. 

Election Commis- 

sion, India. 

List of contesting candidates for 
election to the House of the 
People from the Jalna Par- 
liamentary Constituency. 

33 

| S.R.O. 268, dated the 8th Jan- 
uary 1958. 

Ditto. 

Election Petition No. 466 of 1937, 

34 

1 S.R.O, 269, dated the 2rst 
January T958. 

Ministry of Educa- 
tion and Scientific 
Research. 

Appointment of date on which 
! the Copyright Act, 1957 

1 shall come into force. 


S.R.O. 270, dated the 21st 
January 1958. 

Ditto. 

j The Copyright Rules, 1958. 


S.R.O. 271 , dated the 21st 
January 1958. 

Ditto. 

The International Copyright 

Order, 1958. 


S.R.O. 272, dated the 21st 
January 1958. 

Ditto. 

Copyright (International Orga- 
nisations) Order, 1958. 

35 

S.R.O. 273, dated the 21st 
January 1958. 

Ministry of Finance. 

Draft of the Customs Duties 
Drawback (Umbrella Ribs) 
Rules, 1938. 


S.R.O. 274, dated the 21st 
January 193S. 

I 

1 

Ditto. 

Draft Amendments to be made 
in the Customs Duties Draw- 
back (Carbon Paper) Rules 
1957 . 



Src. 3] {THE GA7ETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGIIA 12. 1879 


Issue 

No. 

No, and date 

Issued by j 

Subject 


S.R.O, 275, dated the 21st 
January 1958. 

Ministry of Finance. 

Draft of the Customs Duties 
Drawback (Tissue Paper) Rules, 
1958. 


j S.R.O. 276, dated the 21st 
| January 195 8. 

Ditto. 

[ 

Draft Amendment to be made 
in the Customs Duties Draw- 
back (Glass and Glasswares) 
Rules, T957. 

36 

S.R.O. 277, dated the 22nd 
January T958. 

Ditto. 

Exemption of exhaust fans, 
when imported, from so much 
of customs duty leviable there- 
on. 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of these 
Gazettes. 


PART II — Section 3 

Statutory Rules and Orders issued by the Ministries of the Government 
of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and Central Authorities 
(other than the Chief Commissioners) 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 

New Delhi, the 13th January 1958 

S.R.O. 349. — It is hereby notified for general information that the disqualifi- 
cation Linder clause (c) of section 7 of the Representation of the People Act. 1951 
(XLI1I of 1951), incurred by the person whose name and address are given below, 
as notified iunder notification No. RN-P290/57(192) dated the 14th November, 1957, 
has been removed by the Election Commission in exercise of the powers conferred 
on it by the said clause and section of the said Act: — 

Shri Bhagirath Mohta, Mohta House, 29-Strand Road, Calcutta-1. 

[No. RN-P/290/57 ( 192-R) /2B99.] 
By Order, 

A. KRISHNASWAMY AIYANGAR, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LAW 

New Delhi, the 22nd January 1958 

S.R.O. 380.— In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of rule 8B 
of Order XXVII of the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 
(5 of 1908), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri S. D. Pyne, Solicitor, 
of Messrs. Pyne and Pyne, Solicitors and Notaries, IB, Old Post Office Street, 
Calcutta, as Government Pleader for the purposes of the said Order in relation 
to any suit on the Original Side of the High Court at Calcutta, relating to the 
Railways and the Chittaranjan Locomotive Works, Chittaranjan, or against a 
public officer in the service of the Railways, and the Chittaranjan Locomotive 
Works. 


[No. F,66(l)/58-J.j 



THE GAZE'l EE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 1, I938/MAGHA 12, 1879 [Part II 


New Delhi, the 25t h January 1958 

S.B.O. 351. — In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 1 of Order XXVII 
of the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) and m 
supersession of the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Law, No, S.B.O. 1651 dated the 1st September 1953, the Central Government 
hereby appoints — 

(i) the officers specified in the Schedule annexed hereto as persons by 

whom plaints and written statements in suits in any court of civil 
jurisdiction by or against the Central Government shall be signed; 

(ii) those of the officers referred to m sub-clause (i) who are acquainted 

with the facts of the case, as persons by whom such plaints and 
written statements shall be verified. 

SCHEDULE 

I- — General 

Any Secretary, Additional Secretary. Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or 
Under Secretary to the Government of India. 

II — President’s Secretariat 

Military Secretary to the President. 

Deputy Military Secretary to the President, 

III — Prime Minister’s Secretariat 

Principal Private Secretary to the Prime Minister, 

Private Secretary to the Prime Minister (Administration). 

IV — Cabinet Secretariat 
Director of Industrial Statistics. 

Joint Director (Co-ordination) in the Central Statistical Organisation. 

Chief Director, National Sample Survey. 

Assistant Directors, National Sample Survey. 

V — Department of Parliamentry Affairs 
Secretary, Department of Parliamentary Affairs. 

VI — Ministry of Commerce and Industry 

Chief Industrial Adviser, Development Wing. 

Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 

Any Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, 

Any Deputy Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, 

Director General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, 

Director of Exhibitions. 

Development Commissioner, Small Scale Industries. 

Any Joint Development Commissioner, Small Scale Industrie*. 

Any Regional Director, Small Industries Service Institute. 

Textile Commissioner. 

Joint Textile Commissioner. 

Deputy Textile Commissioner. 

Industrial Adviser (Textile Production) 



205 


Sec. 3] ^HE GAZETTE OF INDIA; FEBRUARY 1, I958/MAGHA 12, 1879 

Any Director, Textile Commissioner's Organisation. 

Salt Commissioner. 

Any Deputy Salt Commissioner. 

Any Assistant Salt Commissioner, 

General Manager, Rajputana Salt Sources Division, Sambhar Lake. 

Registrar of. Trade Marks. 

Controller of. Patents & Designs. 

Custodian of .Enemy Property. 

Economic Adviser to the Government of India. 

Secretary, Forward Markets Commission, Bombay. 

VII — Ministry of Defence 

Scientific Adviser to the Ministry of Defence; 

Dire ctor Genera l, Armed Force s Medical Services. 

Chief Administrative Officer, 

Director, Military Lands and Cantonments, 

Deputy Director, Military Lands and Cantonments. 

Military Estates Officer, 

Executive Offlcer-cum-Military Estates Officer. 

Organisation of Controller General of Defence Production 

Director Genera], Ordnance Factories. 

Deputy Director General, Ordnance Factories. 

Assistant Director General, Ordnance Factories. 

Superintendent or Officer-in-charge of Ordnance Clothing Factories. 
Director Research & Development (Armament). 

Director of Research & Development (General). 

Chief Superintendent or Superintendent of Development, 

Technical Development Establishments. 

Inspector or Assistant Inspectors in charge of Inspection Area, 

Officer! in-charge, Clothing Inspection Depot, Shahjahanpur. 

Army 

Generali Officers Commanding-in-Chief, Commands. 

Commander, Corps. 

Principal Staff Officers, Heads of Branches or Directors at Army Head- 
quarters. 

Chairman, Board of Administration, Canteen Stores Department (India). 
Commander, Area. 

Commander, Division. 

Commander, Independent Sub-Area. 

Commander, Sub-Area. 

Commander, Brigade. 

Commander, Brigade Area. 

Officer Commanding, Station. 

Officer Commanding, Unit Establishments. 

Director, Territorial Army, 

Embarkation Commandants, Bombay and Calcutta. 

Chief Engineers, 

Deputy Chief Engineers. 

Commander, Works Engineers (CWE). 

Staff Officers, Corps of Engineers I or II. 

Deputy Commander, Works Engineers (DCWE). 



206 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGHA 12, 1879 [Part II 


Assistant Commander, Works Engineers. 

Senior Barrack/Stores Officers. 

Garrison Engineers. 

Officer Commanding, Engineer Stores Depots. 

Chief Works Officer, Naval Dockyard Expansion Scheme. 

Commandant, College of Military Engineering. 

Officer Commanding, Administration Wing, College of Military Engineering 
Commandants, Engineer Groups. 

Director, Ministry of Defence Security Corps. 

Director of Ordnance Services. 

Director of Mechanical Engineering. 

Navy 

Chief of the Naval Staff. 

Deputy Chief of the Naval Staff. 

Commodore-in-charge, Bombay. 

Commodore-in-Charge, Cochin, 

Naval Offlcer-in-Charge. 

Captain Superintendent of the Dockyard. 

Resident Naval Officers. 

Commanding Officers of the Indian Ships or Naval Shore Establishments. 

Air Force 

Chief of tire Air Staff. 

Deputy Chief of the Air Staff. 

Air Offlcer-in-Charge of Personnel and Organisation. 

Air Officer- in-Charge, Technical and Equipments Services. 

Air or Other Officer Commanding, Command. 

Officer Commanding, Wing. 

Officer Commanding, Station. 

Officer Commanding Squadron or other Unit. 

VIII — Ministry of Education & Scientific Research 

Director of Archives. 

Librarian, National Library. 

Director General of Archaeology. 

Deputy Director General of Archaeology. 

Superintendents, Archaeological Department. 

Director, Department of Anthropology. 

The Principal, Central Institute of Education. 

The Director, Indian Institute of Technology. 

Department of Scientific Research and Technical Education 
Director, Zoological Survey of India. 

Surveyor General of India. 

Directors, Survey of India, 

Deputy Directors, Survey of India. 

Superintending Surveyors, Survey of India. 

Chief Botanist, Botanical Survey of India. 

Director, Indian School of Mines and Applied Geology. 

Principal, Delhi Polytechnic, 

Departments of Education & Cultural Activities & Physical Education 
Any Deputy Educational Adviser. 



Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGHA 12, 1879 

Any Assistant Educational Adviser. 

Curator, National Gallery of Modem Art. 

Director, National Museum. 

Keeper, National Museum. 

Director, National Institute of Basic Education. 

Director, National Fundamental Education Centro. 

Assistant Director, National Fundamental Education Centre. 
Archaeological Chemist, Department of Archaeology. 

Government Epigraphist, Department of Archaeology. 

Garden Superintendent, Department of Archaeology. 
Superintendent, Training Centre for the Adult Blind. 

Manager, Central Braille Press. 


20 '/ 


IX — Ministry of Finance 
Department of Economic Affairs 
Masters, India Government Mints. 

Master, Assay Department and Silver Refinery Project. 

Master, India Security Press. 

Managers of Public Debt Offices. 

Governor, Reserve Bank of India. 

Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer, Hirakud Project. 

Controller of Insurance. 

National Savings Commissioner. 

Director, Deputy Directors and Assistant Directors, Enforcement Unit, 
Foreign Exchange Regulation Act. 


Indian Audit and Accounts Department 

Comptroller and Auditor General of India. 

Deputy Comptroller and Auditor General of India. 

Any Additional Deputy Comptroller and Auditor General. 
Controller of Commercial Accounts. 

Accountants General. 

Comptrollers. 

Chief Auditors of Indian Railways. 

Director of Railway Audit. 

Director of Audit, Defence Services. 

Controller of Coal Accounts. 

Deputy Accountants General, Posts and Telegraphs. 

Chief Auditor, Damodar Valley Corporation and Sindri Projects. 


Finance ( Defence ) 

Financial Adviser. 

Additional Financial Adviser. 

Joint Financial Adviser. 

Deputy Financial Adviser. 

Assistant Financial Adviser. 


Defence Accounts Department 

Controller General of Defence Accounts, 

Additional Controller General of Defence Accounts. 
Deputy Controller General of Defence Accounts. 
Controllers or Joint Controllers of Defence Accounts. 



208 , GA , .OF l: . . , 1, ! ,12, LJ r. , II 


Department of Revenue 
Commissioners of Income-tax. 

Collectors of Customs, Additional Collectors of Customs, Deputy Collectors of 
Customs and Assistant Collectors of Customs. 

Collector of Land Customs, Calcutta. 

Any Officer of the Central Excise Department not below the rank of Assistant 
Collector of Central Excise. 

Narcotics Commissioner, 

X — Ministry of Food & Agriculture 
Department of Agriculture 

Vice President, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, 

Central Registrar of Cooperative Societies and Joint Secretary incharge of 
Cooperation, Ministry of Food & Agriculture, Department of Agriculture. 
Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of India. 

Agricultural Extension Commissioner, Directorate of Extension and Training. 
Director, Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research. 

Director, Sugarcane Breeding Institute. 

Director, Indian Agricultural Research Institute. 

Director, Central Potato Research Institute. 

Director, Central Rice Research Institute. 

Directors, Indian Veterinary Research Institutes. 

Directors of Dairy Research. 

President, Forest Research Institute & Colleges. 

Plant Protection Adviser to the Government of India. 

Director, Locust Control. 

Chairman, Central Tractor Organisation. 

Superintendent, Cattle- cum-Dairy Farm. 

Economic and Statistical Adviser to the Government of India, 

Chief Research Officer, Central Marine Fisheries. 

Chief Research Officer, Inland Fisheries Research Station. 

Superintending Engineer, Deep Sea Fishing Station. 

General Manager, Central Mechanised Farm. 

Officer Incharge, Central Mechanised Farm, 

Department of Food 

Director General of Food, Deputy Director General of Food, Regional Direc- 
tors (Food) or Directors, Joint Directors or Deputy Directors of Food. 

Chief Director of Purchase, Director of Purchase, Joint Director of Purchase 
or Deputy Directors of Purchase. 

Chief Director of Sugar & Vanaspatl. 

Director, National Sugar Institute. 

XI — Ministry of Health 

Deputy Director General of Health Services. 

Assistant Director General of Health Services (Stores). 

Any Deputy Assistant Director General (Medical Stores), Government Medi- 
cal Store Depots. 

Principal, College of Nursing, 

Director, Malaria Institute of India, 

Director, Central Research Institute. 

Director, All-India Institute of Hygiene & Public Health. 

Serologist and Chemical Examiner to the Government of India. 



OL L . 3] 


t GA 


■a OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGHA 12, 1879 


20 <» 


Civil Surgeon, Simla. 

Director, Central Drugs Laboratory. 

Any Assistant Drugs Controller. 

Any Port Health Officer. 

Any Airport Health Officer. 

Director, B.C.G. Vaccine Laboratory. 

Superintendent, Lady Reading Health School, Delhi. 

Ram Chandra Lohia Infant Welfare Centre, Delhi, 

Medical Superintendent, Hospital for Mental Diseases, 

Medical Superintendent, Safdarjang Hospital, New Delhi. 

Medical) Superintendent, Willingdon Hospital, New Delhi. 

Technical Officer, Central Drugs Standard Control Organization. 

Director, Ceptral Food Laboratory, 

Director, Leprosy Control Works of the Government of India. 

Director General (CHS) and Assistant Director General (CHS) Directorate 
General of Health Services, New Delhi. 

Officer-in-Charge, Family Planning Training and Research Centre. 

Health Officer, Family Planning Training, Demonstration and Experimental 
Centre. 

Principal, Medical College, Pondicherry. 

I XII — Ministry of Information & Broadcasting 
Principal Information Officer. 

Director. Publications Division. 

Director General, AU-India Radio. 

Station Directors, All-India Radio. 

Controller of Administration, Films Division. 

.Any Regional Officer, Central Board of Film Censors. 

Registrar of Newspapers for India. 

Director of Advertising and Visual Publicity. 

Deputy Director, Research and Reference Division. 

XIII — Ministry of Irrigation & Power 
Central Water & Power Commission 

Chairman. 

Members. 

Chief Engineers. 

Directors and Thermal Specialist Engineers. 

Deputy Directors. 

Administrative Officers. 

Assistant Administrative Officers. 

Superintending Engineers. 

Executive Engineers. 


Hirakud Dam Project 


Chief Engineer, 

Personal Assistant to Chief Engineer. 

Superintending Engineers. 

Divisional Officers (Executive Engineers), 

XIV — Ministry of Labour and Employment 
Chief Labour Commissioner. 

Chief Adviser, Factories. 



210 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 1. 1958/MAGHA 12, 1879 [Part II 


Controller of Emigrant Labour, Shillong. 

Coal Mines Welfare Commissioner. 

Welfare Commissioner, Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund. 

Chairman, Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund Advisory Committee for Andhra 
Pradesh. 

Chairman, Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund Advisory Committee for 
Rajasthan. 

Additional Deputy Director (Labour), Gorakhpur. 

Chief Inspector cf Mines in India. 

Director, Labour Bureau. 

Central Provident Fund Commissioner. 

Regional Provident Fund Commissioners. 

Coal Mines Provident Fund Commissioner. 

Chairman, Central Government Industrial Tribunals. 

XV — Ministry or Law 

Additional Secretary and Chief Draftsman, Joint Secretary and Draftsman, 
Additional Draftsman, Deputy Draftsman, Assistant Draftsman, Joint Secretary 
and Legal Adviser, Additional Legal Adviser, Deputy Legal Adviser or Assistant 
Legal Adviser. 

Registrar, Income-tax Appellate Tribunal, Bombay. 

Secretary, Election Commission, India. 

XVI— Ministry of Rehabilitation 
Custodian General of Evacuee Property. 

Deputy Custodian General of Evacuee Property. 

Custodian of Evacuee Property, Delhi. 

Custodian cf Evacuee Property, Himachal Pradesh, Simla. 

Chief Settlement Commissioner, Ministry of Rehabilitation. 

Any Regional Settlement Commissioner. 

XVII — Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel 
Coal Controller. 

Director, Indian Bureau of Mines. 

Director, Indian School of Mines and Applied Geology. 

Controllers of Mining Leases, 

Members and Secretary of the Oil and Natural Gas Commission. 

Director of Geology and Geophysics, Oil and Natural Gas Commission, 

Department of Iron and Steel 

Iron and Steel Controller. 

Deputy Iron and Steel Controllers. 

Price and Accounts Officer, Iron and Steel Control Organisation. 

XVIII — Ministry of Transport and Communications 
( Transport Wing) 

Administrative Officer, Cochin Harbour. 

Port Administrative Officer, Vizagapatam. 

Development Commissioner, Kandla. 

Secretary to the Development Commissioner, Kandla. 

Director General of Shipping. 

Any Deputy Director General of Shipping. 

Any Principal Officer, Mercantile Marine Department, 

Captain Superintendents of Training Ships. 



Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY ]. 1958/MACHA 12, 1879 2ll 

Director, Marine Engineering Training. 

Principal, Nautical and Engineering College. 

Surveyors in-Chargc, Mercantile Marine Department 
Any Shipping Master. 

Directors, Seamens’ Employment Offices. 

Regional Tourist Officers, 

Department of Lighthouses & Lightships 

Director General of Lighthouses and Lightships. 

Administrative Officer. 

Executive Officer. 

Executive Engineer. 

Executive Engineer (Electrical). 

Marine Officers. 

Directors of Lighthouses and Lightships. 

Civil Aviation Department 

Senior Aerodrome Officers, Aerodrome Officers or Assistant Aerodrome 
Offlcers-in-Charge of Civil Aerodromes. 

Director, Inspection Office, Southern Area, Bangalore. 

Indian Meteorological Department 
Deputy Directors General. 

Directors, Regional Meteorological Centres, 

Director, Agricultural Meteorology, 

Director, Colaba and Alibag Observatories. 

Director, Solar Physics Observatory. 

Government of India Overseas Communication Service 
Director-General. 

Director (Administration). 

Chief Engineer. 

Director. 

Depity Director-General (Traffic). 

Traffic Manager. 

Engineers-ln-Charge. 

Indian Posts and Telegraphs Department 
All Gazetted Officers. 

XIX — Ministry of Works, Housing and StJiwr 
Chief Inspector of Explosives in India. 

Estate Officer. 

Joint Estate Officer. 

Estate Managers and Assistant Estate Managers. 

National Buildings Organisation 

Director. 

Joint Director. 

Central Public Works Department 

Chief Engineer. 

Additional Chief Engineers. 

Director of Administration, 

Superintending Engineers and Executive Engineers. 

Chief Resident Engineer, Jawahar Tunnel Projects. 



212 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGHA 12, 1879 [Part II 

Director of Horticulture. 

Superintending Surveyors of Works. 

Electrical Engineers. 

Stationery and Printing 

Chief Controller of Printing and Stationery. 

Controller of Stationery. 

Manager. Government of India Forms Stores. 

Government of India Presses 

General Manager, Government cf India Press, New Delhi. 

Managers, Government of India Presses. 

Manager, Government of India Photo Litho Press. 

Works Manager, Government of India Press, Naslk Road. 

Production Officer, United Press, Delhi. 

Managers, Government of India Forms Presses. 

Government of India Publication Branch 
Manager of Publications. 

Directorate General , Supplies and Disposals 

Director General, Supplies and Disposals. 

Deputy Directors General, Supplies and/or Disposals. 

Directors, Deputy Directors and Assistant Directors of Supplies and/or Dis- 
posals, whether posted at Headquarters or in any of the regional offices. 

Director of Administration. 

Director of Co-ordination and Statistics. 

Deputy Director of Administration. 

Deputy Director of Co-ordination, 

Director, Government Test House. 

Deputy Director, Government Test House. 

Any Assistant Director (Administration). 

Officer on Special Duty (Litigation). 

Assistant Director (Litigation), Calcutta. 

Chief Pay and Accounts Officer, Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply, 

XX — Miscellaneous 

District Magistrates and Deputy Commissioners in West Bengal. 

Collector of Bombay. 

Secretary to the Chief Commissioner, Andaman and Nicobar Islands. 
Administrator, Laccadive, Minicoy & Amindivi Islands. 

[No. F.52(l)/B7-J.] 

B. N. LOKUR, Jt, Secy. 



Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE Ol INDIA: 1-EBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGHA 12, 1879 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi-2, the 21 st January 1958 

S.R.O. 352. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3(b) of the table 
annexed to Schedulo I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify Sbri B. S. Prithviruismhji S. Jhala, grandson of the Ruler of 
Sayla, for purposes of that entry, and directs that the exemption shall be valid 
In respect of one revolver/pistol and two guns (rifles or smooth bore). 

[No. 16/9/57-Police IV.] 

New Delhi-2, the 25th January 1958 

S.R.Oi 353.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (a) of section 
27 of thle Indian Arms Act, 1878 (11 of 1878), the Central Government hereby 
exempts Lt, Col. D, G. Majhi, accompanying Her Majesty the Queen of Nepal 
visiting Calcutta, from the operation of the prohibitions and directions contained 
in section 6 of the said Act, in respect of one .38 bore pistol No A31869 with 12 
rounds of ammunition. 

[No. F.17/l/58-Police(IV).] 
C, P. S. MENON, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi-2, the 21st January 1958 

S.R.Oi 354, — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution and in supersession of the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Home Affairs No. S.R.O. 3923 dated the 7th December, 
1957, the President hereby makes the following amendment in the Central Civil 
Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1957, namely: — 

In part I of the Scheduled to the said rules, after entry 23, the following 
entry shall be inserted, namely: — 

“24. Indian Frontier Administrative Service: — 

(a) Grade I 

(b) Grade II 


[No. F.7/51/57-Ests.(A).] 
New Delhi-2, the 25 th January 1958 

S.R.O[ 355. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 
309 of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following further amend- 
ments in the Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 
1957, namely: — 

In the Schedule to the said Rules — 

(1) in Part I, below the entry 24, the following entry shall be in*erted, 

namely : — 

“26. Central Legal Service (Grades I, II, III & IV).” 

* 

(2) in Part III, against “Central Secretariat Clerical Service, Grades I and 

II", below “(K) Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals” and 
the entries relating thereto In columns 3 to 5, the following shall be 
inserted, namely : — 


3 

4 

5 

Ministry Joint 

(i)to 

Secretary, 

of Law — Secretary 

(iii) 

Ministry of 

and Legal Adviser. 


Law. 


[No. 7/54/57-Ests.(A) ,1 
P. SITARAMAN, Dy. Secy 



214 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; FEBRUARY 1, I958/MAGHA 12, 1879 [Part. II 


New Delhi-2, the 23 rd January 1958 

S.R.O. 356, — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
3 of the All India Services Act, 1951 (61 ct 1951), the Central Government, after 
consultation with the Governments of the States concerned, hereby makes the 
following amendments in the Indian Police Service (Regulation of Seniority) 
Rules, 1954. 

2. The amendments shall be deemed to have taken effect from the 14th May, 
1956 


Amendments 


In the said Rules, 

(i) after rule 5, the following rule shall be Inserted, namely: — 

“5-A . — Seniority of Officers appointed under the Indian Police Service 
(Special Recruitment ) Regulations, 1957.— Notwithstanding anything 
contained In any of the provisions of these rules, the seniority of 
officers appointed to the service in accordance with the regulations 
framed under sub-rule (5) of rule 9 of the Indian Police Service 
(Recruitment) Rules, 1954, shall be determined in accordance with 
such regulations, as the Central Government may, after consultation 
with the State Governments and the Commission, from time to time, 
make.” 


fii) in rule 6, for the word and figures "4, 5 and 7", the word and figures ‘‘4, 5, 
5 A and 7" shall be substituted. 


[No. 13/30/67-AIS(III)-A.'| 


S.R.O. 357. — In exercise of ihe powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
3 of the All India Services Act, 1951 (61 of 1951), the Central Government, after 
consultation with the Governments of the. States concerned, hereby makes the 
following amendments in the Indian Administrative Service (Regulation of 
Seniority) Rules, 1954, 

2. The amendments shall be deemed to have taken effect from the 20th Decem- 
ber, 1956. 

Amendments 

In the said Rules, 

(i) after rule 5, the following rule shall be Inserted, namely: — 

"5-A. Seniority of Officers appointed under the Indian Administrative 
Service (Special Recruitment) Regulations, 1956 — Notwithstanding 

anything contained in any of the provisions of these rules, the 
seniority of officer^ appointed to the service in accordance with the 
regulations framed under sub-rule (3) of rule 4 of the Indian Ad- 
ministrative Service (Recruitment) Rules, 1954, shall be determined 
in accordance with such regulations, as the Central Government may, 
after consultation with the State Governments and the Commission, 
from time to time, make.” 

(il; in rule 6, for the word and figuTes "4, 5 and 7” the word and figures “4, 5, 
5-A and 7” shall be substituted. 

[No. 13/30/57-AIS(III).l 
S. P. MUKERJEE, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi-2, the 23 rd January 1958 

S.R.O. 358.— In exercise of the powders conferred by the, proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution, the President hereby directs that the following further amend- 
ments shall be made to the Indian Foreign Service Rules, 1954, namely: — 

In the said Rules, the following may be substituted for the existing item (ix) 
below sub-rule (4) of Rule 18, 

"(ix) Marine Insurance charges". 

2. This amendment shall be deemed to have taken effect on and from the 25th 
day of September, 1957. 

[No. F.I (6) -E.II/57 (IFSR.Amd.23) ,] 
A. S. MEHTA, Dy. Secy. 



215 


Sec. 3] 'I^E GAZETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGHA 12. 1879 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Company Law Administration) 

New Delhi-1, the 25 th January, 1958 

S.R.O. 359. — In exercise of the power conferred by clause (a) of sub-section 
(1) of section 448 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby appoints, until further orders, Shri Narsingh Dass Gupta, acting 
Registrar of the Judicial Commissioner’s Court, Himachal Pradesh, Simla, to 
be the evi-officio Official Liquidator attached to that court for the period 30th 
December,) 1957 to 3lst March, 1958 vice Shri Chet Ram. 

[No. 2(27)-CL.III/36J 
P. B, SAHARYA, Under Secy. 


(Department of Expenditure) 

New Delhi-2, the 22nd January 1958 

S.R.O. 360. — In exercise of the. powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
and, in relation to persons serving in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, 
lifter consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor General as required lby clause 
'5 1 of article 148 of the Constitution, the President hereby directs that the follow 
ng further amendment shall be made in the Fundamental Rules, namely: — 

In the said Rules, for Rule 31, the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

“F.R.310), Subject to the provisions of Rules 30 and 35, a Government 
Servant who is appointed to officiate in a post will draw the presump- 
tive pay of that post. 

(2) On an enhancement In the substantive pay, as a result of increment or 
otherwise, the pay of such Government servant shall be re-fixed under 
sub-rule (1) from the date of such enhancement as If he was appointed 
to officiate in that post on that date where such re-flxation is to his 
advantage 


[No. F.2(4)-E.III/ 58.] 
K. S. GANAPATI, Dy. Secy. 


(Communications Division) 

Neio Delhi, the 22nd January 1958 

S.R.O. 361. — The President hereby directs that the following further amend- 
ment" shall be made in the Post Office 5-Year Cash Certificates Rules, namely: — 

In rule 6 cf the Sub-rules, after sub-rule (10), the following Sub-rule shall 
be Inserted, namely: — - 

“(11) A receipt obtained by Government in respect of payment of amount 
due on a Post Office Cash Certificate whether endorsed on the back 
cf the Certificate at the time of its discharge or taken separately 
shall be exempt from the payment of stamp duty chargeable under, 
the Indian Stamp Act, 1899’’. 

[No. 1 NSC/PTI/58.J 

S.R.O. 362 The President hereby directs that the following further amend- 

ment shall be made in the Post Office 10-Year Defence Savings Certificates Rules, 
namely: — 

In rule 10 of the said rules, after sub-rule (7), the following sub-rule shall 
be inserted, namely: — 

“(8) A receipt obtained bv Government in respect of payment of amount 
due on a Defence Savings Certificate, whether endorsed on the back 
of the Certificate at the time of its discharge or taken separately, 
shall be exempt from the payment of stamp duty chargeable under 
the Indian Stamp Act, 1899.” 


[No. 2 NSC/PTI/58.1 



216 


THE GAZETTE OT INDIA: EEBlU’AfO l. J958.MAGHA 12, 1879 [Paki. I) 


8.R.O. 363. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 of the Post 
Office National Savings Certificates Ordinance, 1944 (42 of 1944), the Central 
Government hereby makes the following further amendments to the Post Office 
National Savings Certificates Rules, 1944, namely:- — 

In the said Rules — 

(1) In sub-rule (1) of rule H, the following shall be added at the end, namely: — 
“A receipt obtained by Government In respect of payment due on a Certificate, 

whether endorsed on the back of the Certificate at the time of its discharge or 
taken separately, shall be exempt from the payment of stamp duty chargeable 
under the Indian Stamp Act, 1899”., 

(2) in rule J, sub-rule (3) shall be omitted. 


[No. 3 NSC/PTI/58.] 

S.R.O. 364.— In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 6 of the Post 
Office National Savings Ordinance, 1944 (42 ol 1944), the Central Government 
hereby makes the iollowmg further amendment in the Government of India, 
Ministry of Finance (Department ol Economic Affars), Notification No. SRO- 
1449, dated the 1st May, 1054, namely: — 

In the said notification, after clause (f), the following shall be inserted as 
clause (g), namely: — 

“(g) A receipt obtained by Government in respect of payment due on a 
National Plan Certificate whether endorsed on the back ol the 
certificate at the time of its discharge or taken separately shall be 
exempt trom the payment of stamp duty chargeable under the Indian 
Stamp Act, 1899.” 


[No. 4 NSC/PTI/58 ] 
M. K. NAIR, Under Sccy. 


(Department of Revenue) 

Medicinal and Toilet Preparations 
New Delhi, the 21st January 1958 

S.R.O. 365.— In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 19 of the Medi- 
cinal and Toilet Preparations (Excise Duties) Act, 1955 (16 of 1955), the Central 
Government hereby makes the following further amendments in the Medicinal 
and Tcilet Preparations (Excise Duties) Rules, 1956, namely: — 

In the said rules — 

1. In rule 2, clause (xxiil) shall be omitted. 

2. In rule 22, for the words “There shall be only one entrance to the bonded 

manufactory”, the words “Unless otherwise ordered by the State Government, 
there shall be only one entrance to the bonded manufactory” shall be substituted. 

3. In clause (vi) of rule 23, the words “the entrance to” shall be omitted. 

4. In rule 27, before the words “Duty at the full rate”, the words “Subject to 
"the provision of rule 19", shall be inserted. 

5. In rule 29, in sub-rule (1), for the words “or the standard formulae of the 

manufacturer which has been registered with and approved by the Central Drugs 
Laboratory, Calcutta”, the wordg and figures ‘or the formula of the patent and 
proprietary medicine displayed on the label of the container in the manner pres- 
cribed in the Drugs Rules, 1945 for the time being jn fofee” shall be substituted. 

6. In clause (i) of rule 33, for the words “not exceeding 8 ounces”, the words 
"“of 8 ounces or such quantity of the preparation as the officer-m-charge considers 
necessary” shall be substituted. 

7. In sub-rule (2) of rule 37, for the words “the difference in duty shall be 
collected or made leviable, as the case may he, on determination of the volume 
and strength of the alcohol so recovered. FW this purpose a sample shall be sent 
by the omcer-in-chargo to the Chemical Exam'ncr”, the words ‘the duty on the 
preparation so manufactured shall be collected or made leviable on determination 
.of the spirit strength of the preparation” shall be substituted. 



3 ] 


8. In siib-rule (1) of rule 38, for the words "The Central 
ate Government with the 
words ‘‘The State Government’ 


State Government with the prior approval of the Central 

' eVi ol 


shall be substituted. 


Government or the 
Government”, the 


9. In rule 47, after clause (viii), the following clause 
namely: — 


shall be inserted 


"(lx) The State Government may relax all or any of the provisions of 
clauses (i) to (viii) in the case of small manufacturers whose annual 
consumption of alcohol does not exceed 100 anikmj Htso in the 
case of those who prepare medicinal preparation i ar dispensing to 
their patients only and not for -sale ” 

10. For clause (i) of riftc- *4, the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

"(I) A sample shall be of 8 fluid ounces or such quantity as may be fixed 
by the Excise Commissioner.” 

11. In tule 59 — 

(a) in Clause (i)— 

(1) the words "and which are not likely to be used for any purpose other 
than as medicine” shall be omitted; and 

12) for the words The Indian Pharmaeopoeial List” appearing against item 
(3) the words “The Indian Pharmacopoeia” shall be substituted. 

(b) for clause (ii), the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

“Hi) Non-official allopathic preparations hereinafter referred to as propriet- 
ary preparations which are prepared according to allopathic system 
of medicine and conform strictly to the formula displayed on the 
label.” 


12. For the heading "Spurious preparations” appearing after rule 67, the head- 
ing "Standing Committee” shall be substituted. 


13. For rule 68, the following rule shall be substituted, namely: — 

“68. Standing Committee and its functions.--(l) A Standing Committee con- 
sisting of the Drugs Controller of the Government of India and the 
Chief Chemist, Central Revenues Control Laboratory, shall advise 
the Central Government on all matters connected with the technical 
aspects of the administration of the Art and these rules, and in 
particular, on the question whether — 


Cip a particular preparation is entitled to be treated, or to continue to 
be treated, as a genuine medicinal or toilet preparation for the 
purposes of the Act; 

(ii) and if so, whether it should be treated, or continue to be treated, 
as a restricted or an unrestricted preparation. 

(2) The Committee may tender such advice, on the motion of the Central 
Government and may make such investigation as it or the Central 
Government considers necessary, and the Central Government may 
take, on such advice, such decision as that Government thinks fit. 

14. In rule 83, in sub-item (1) of item 2 of the Table annexed to the said rule, 
before the words “where consumption of alcohol, is 24 London Proof gallons or 
less per annum”, the words "where only opium, Indian hemp and other narcotic 
drugs and narcotics are used or” shall be inserted. 


15. In rule 91, in the marginal heading, for the words 
words “tp manufacture medicinal and toilet preparations in” 


“for working”, the 
shall be substituted. 


16 Ini rule 94, for the words “establishment of a manufactory”, the words 
“manufacture of medicinal and toilet preparations” shall be substituted. 


17. In rule 95— 

(a) in the marginal heading after the words "Disposal of application for” 

the words “licence to manufacture medicinal and toilet preparation 
in a” shall be inserted; 

(b) in sub-rule (2), for the words “bonded or non-bonded manufactory 

licence may be granted, it shall sanction the establishment of the 
oroposed manufactory”, the words “licence for the manufacture of 
medicinal and toilet preparations in a bonded or non-bonded manu- 
factory may be granted, it shall issue a licence” shall be substituted. 



A 12. 


II 


.Y 1, iv I 


i ri 


18, In the Schedule — 

(a) under the heading, “Pharmacopoelal Preparations”, the words 

"ALCOHOLS” and "Alcohol Dehydratum B.P.” shall he omitted. 

(b) the entry "Vlnkola” appearing under “Non-Pharmacopoeial Prepara- 

tions” shall be omitted. 

19, In the list of Forms — the entry "CHALAN” and the serial number 34 and 

$nch serial number in columns 2, 3, 4, and 5 shall be omitted. 

. 2°. Form C. it.— I, bearing M & T.p Series No. 34. appended to the Rules, 
shall be omitted. 


[No. 3.1 

G, P, DURAIRAJ, Under Secy. 


(Department of Revenue) 

Central Excises 

New Delhi, the 1st February, 1958 

S.R.O. 366. — In pursuance of rule 12 of the Central Excise Rules, 1944, as 
in force in India and as applied to the State of Pondicherry, the Central Govern- 
ment hereby directs that a rebate of excise duty paid on the vegetable non- 
Essentlal oils, other than cottonseed oil, used in the manufacture of vegetable 
product, and the excise duty paid on such vegetable product, shall be allowed 
at the following rates on its exportation to any country or territory out of India 
or the said State, other than a country or territory with a common land frontier 
with India, which has been declared to be foreign territory under section 5 of 
the Indian Tariff Act, 1934 (32 of 1934), except Pakistan and Burma, or shipped 
as stores ‘for use on board a ship proceeding to a foreign port subject to the 
conditions and limitations set out in Appendix I to this condition: — 

Rate of Rebate 

(i) on Vegetable Product, — Rs. 140 per ton of such vegetable product. 

(iij on Vegetable Non-essential oils other than Cottonseed oil used in the 
manufacture of the Vegetable Product,— Rs. 105A0 per ton of such 
vegetable product. 

Provided that — 

(1) the the vegetable product to be exported is manufactured in a factory 

licensed under the Central Excise Rules, 1944, and the exports are 
made direct from such a factory; 

(2) the exporter produces the proof of payment of duty on the vegetable 

non-essential oil used in the manufacture of vegetable product for 
the purpose of calculating the rebate in respect of vegetable non- 
essential oils; the oils constituting part of the exemption quota 
specified in the notification of the Government of India, Ministry 
of Finance (Revenue Department) No. CER-8(25)/50-Central Excises, 
dated the 3rd November 1956, or constituting part of the quantity 
assessed to duty at the Concessional rate specified in the notification 
of the Government of India, Ministry of Finance (Revenue Depart- 
ment) No. 40/57-Central Excises, dated the 16th May 1957, shall be 
treated as having paid duty at the rates prescribed under the 
Central Excises and Sait Act, 1944 (I of 1944) for the vegetable 
non-essential oils; 

(3) the value of the vegetable product at the time of exportation is, in 

the opinion of the Collector of Central Excise, not less than the 
amount of the rebate of excise duty claimed; 

(4) the amount of rebate of excise duty admissible is not less than five 

rupees; 

(5) the exporter other than manufacturer executes an indemnity bond in 

Form C or D in Appendix II to this notification, with such surety 
or sufficient security, as the Collector approves, in a sum equal at 



Sec. 3] THE) GAZETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGHA 12, 1879 


least to the amount of rebate claimed in respect of vegetable non- 
essential oils used in the manufacture of the vegetable product 
exported agreeing to indemnify Government in regard to any claim 
by the manufacturer for refund in whole, or in part, of the excise 
duty paid by him on such vegetable non-essential oils in respect of 
which rebate of duty may have been granted to such exporter; 

(0) the exporter undertakes to refund to the Collector of Central Excise 
on demand being made within six months of the date of payment, 
a(ny rebate erroneously paid to him, 

Appendix I 
(See Preamble) 

1. The exporter of such vegetable product shall apply in writing in Form A 
for registration to the Collector of Central Excise in whose jurisdiction he 
carries on his business, 

2. The exporter shall similarly get the registration renewed in the month 
of January every year on application in Form A, 

3. Rebate of excise duty shall be allowed at the rates prescribed from time 
to time in respect of vegetable product and the vegetable non-essential oils 
(other than cottonseed oil) contained therein, exported — 

(a) through the ports of Bombay, Madras or Calcutta, by the Collector 

of Central Excise, Bombay, Madras or Calcutta, as the case may be; 

(b) through other ports, or by land, by the Collector of Central Excise with 

whom the exporter is registered. 

4. The exporter shall prepare an application in Form B, and present it to 
the Collector of Central Excise within a period of three months of the date of 
export of such products, together with the Bill of Lading or Shipping Bill duly 
certified by the Customs authorities to the effect that the products have in fact 
been exported. 

6. If the products are not exported, or the proof of export is not furnished 
to the satisfaction of the Collector, in the manner and within the prescribed time- 
limit, the Collector may in his discretion disallow the whole or any part of the 
claim for such rebate. 


Fohm ‘A’ 

(See paragraph 1 of Appendix I) 

Application fotr registration / renewal of registration for export, under claim for 
rebate, of the vegetable product. 

(Delete the letters and words not applicable). 


To 


The Collector of Central Excise, 


Sir, 

I /We residing at taluk District 

request that I/We desire to register /renew our registration to export vegetable 
product under claim for rebate of duty, for the year 

2. I/We hereby declare particulars (in the schedule overleaf) of the premises 
where such vegetable product is being manufactured, 

3. I/We submit a list of vegetable product intended to be exported, along 
with the manufacturing formula of each, duly signed by the manufacturers of 
the products, with special reference to the quantity or proportion of vegetable 
non-essential oils actually used and the quantity and tariff category of the oils 
so used. 

4. I/We declare that I/We will not change the list except with the prior 
permission of the Collector, and, if the manufacturer should make any revision 
in the manufacturing formulae of the products, the revised formulae will be 
similarly communicated to the Collector and his permission obtained before the 
products made according to the revised formulae are exported. 



220 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGHA 12, 1879 [Part II 


5. I/We agree to abide by tbe provisions of the Central Excise Rules, 1944, 
in respect of export of the vegetable product under claim for rebate of duty. 

6. I/We declare that to the best of my/our knowledge and belief the informa- 
tion furnished here is true and complete. 


Date 


Signature of the exporter (s) 
Full addresB 


Schedule 


(See paragraph 2 of Form A) 

1. List of vegetable product and their formula (attached). 

2. Estimated quantity of vegetable non-essential oils of each tariff category 
and quality required for each unit of vegetable product. 

3. Quantity of vegetable product which is estimated to be exported during 
the year. 

4. Particulars premises where the vegetable product is manufactured. 

5. Particulars of Central Excise Licences, if any, held by the exporter. 

0. If the exporter is a firm, the names of its partners, and if a company 
the names of its directors. 


7, Financial standing of the exporter. 

•List of Vegetable Products Manufactured 


S. No. 

Brand & size of the 
vegetable product. 

Manufacturing formulae showing the percentage by weigh 
of vegetable non-essential oils UBed, 

1. 

2. 

3- 

4- 

5- 


Cottonseed oil v ther oils. 

Date 


Signature (s) of the mimuftcturer (s). 




*To be submitted to the Collector in triplicate. 


Form 13' 

(See paragraph 4 of Appendix I) 

Application for rebate of duty on vegetable product exported. 

To 

The Collector of Central Excise, 


I/We have exported the undermentioned quantity and variety of vegetable 

product to (name of country) 

A c°Py oyhe relevant Bill of Lading/Shipping Bill/Export Application is also 
attached. I/We request that rebate of duty to the extent admissible to me/us 
may be granted. ' 


(1) Central Excise Registration No. 

(2) Name and address of the factory where the vege- 

table product was manufactured. 


(3) Particulars of the vegetable products exported— 
(a) Vegetable product (brand and size) — 

(i) Quantity 

(ii) Value 



Sec. S] T|ciE GAZETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGHA 12, 


(b) Vegetable non-essential oils used in the 
manufacture of the vegetable product 
exported— 

(i) Cottonseed oil used per ton of vegetable 

product exported. 

(ii) Other oils used per ton of vegetable 

product exported. 

(4) No. and Date of the Bill of Lading/Shipping 

Bill/Export application. 

(5) (Amount of rebate claimed — 

(if) vegetable product . . Rs. 

(i|) vegetable non-essential oils other than cotton- 
seed oil . . Rs. 


2. I/We attach herewith the A.R.l No , dafed showing pay- 
ment of duty in respect of vegetable product and A.R.l No dated 

showing payment of duty on the vegetable non-essential oils, with the 

certificates thereon of the manufacturers that the rebate claimed above be paid 
to me/us and I/we also attach the indemnity bond required under the notification 
of the Government of India, Ministry of Finance (Revenue Department), 
No. 14-Central Excises, dated the 1st February 1958, entered i o with the 

Collector of Central Excise, undertaking to indemnify 

Government in regard to any claim by the manufacturer for refund in whole 
or in part of the excise duty paid by him on the vegetable non-essential oils 
contained 1 in the vegetable product in respect of which such rebate as may be 
admissible may have been granted to the exporter. 

3. I/We further undertake to refund, on demand being made, within six 
months of the date of payment, any rebate erroneously paid to me/us. 

4. I/We certify that the aforesaid particulars are correct. 


Date Signature and full address of the claimant (s). 

REFUND ORDER NO Date 


The claim of Shri/M/s has been 

scrutinised with the relevant copy of Bill of Lading/Shipping Bill, and rebate 

of Rs ( Rs.) in respect of vegetable product 

and of Rs Rs.) in respect of the vegetable 

non-essenttlal oils contained therein are sanctioned. 

Date ! Collector of Central Excise, 

(FOR EXPORTS THROUGH THE PORTS OF BOMBAY, MADRAS AND 

CALCUTTA) 

Forwairded to: — 

(1) The Chief Accounts Officer, Central Excise 

for information and necessary action. 

(2) The Collector of Central Excise 

(with whom the exporter is registered). 

Date Collector of Central Excise 


Passed for payment for Rs (Rs Rs.). 

The amount is adjustable under Head “II— Union Excise Duties— Deduct Refund’’. 

Date Chief Accounts Officer, 

Cheque No dated issued in favour of 

Shri/M/s foii Rs.’ ( Rs.). 

Date Chief Accounts Officer 

Received Cheque No dated 

for Rs ( Rs.). 


Date. 


Signature of Claimant 


(FOR EXPORT THROUGH ANY OTHER CHANNEL) 

Certified that I have this day paid the sum of 

Rs ( Rs.) in satisfaction of his/their claim. 

Place 

Offlcer-in-Char ge e asury. 

Date 



1£ l: l ARY 1, 19S8/MAGHA 12, 1879 [Paht U 


Appendix II 
Form ‘C* 

Bond ( with security ) to be executed by exporters other than manufacturers of 

Vegetable Product. 

KNOW ALL MEN by these presents that I/We 

of registered under the Central Excise Collec- 

torate, No as the exporter (s) of vegetable 

product [hereinafter called “the obligor (s)”J am/are jointly and severally bound 
unto the President of India (hereinafter referred to as "the Government") in 

the sum of Ks only to be paid to the Government for which 

payment well and truly to be made I/Wo jointly and severally bind myself/our- 
selves and my/our respective heirs and legal representatives. 

Dated this day of 195 

WHEREAS by a notification issued by the Central Government bearing 
No. 14/58-Central Excises, dated the 1st February 1958, under the Central Excise 
Rules, 1944, the Central Government has directed a rebate of excise duty paid 
on the vegetable non-essential oils, other than cottonseed oil, used in the manu- 
facture of vegetable product and paid on such vegetable product at the rates 
mentioned in the said notification on its exportation to any country or territory 
out of India as mentioned therein 

AND WHEREAS the obligor (s) have exported quantity of 

vegetable non-essential oils/vegetable products and applied for rebate of duty 
in respect of the same on its exportation. 

AND WHEREAS under the said notification, the obligors are required to 
execute a bond agreeing to indemnify the Government in regard to 
any claim made against the Government by the manufacturer for refund in 
whole or in part of excise duty on such vegetable non-essential oils. 

AND WHEREAS in pursuance of the said provision the obligors have executed 
the bond as aforesaid, 

AND WHEREAS the obligors have deposited a sum of Rs 

with the Collector of Central Excise at as security for the 

bond, 

NOW THE CONDITION OF THE ABOVE WRITTEN obligation is that if at 
any time hereafter a refund of excise duty in respect of the said vegetable non- 
•esential oils becomes payable to the manufacturers for which refund has been 
granted to the exporter, then the obligors shall pay to the Government the 
amount of rebate, if any, sanctioned and pa ; d by the Government to the obligors 
and upon the obligors making such payment to the Government, the aforesaid 
obligation shall be vo d otherwise and on breach or failure in the performance 
of the above obligation, the same shall remain in full force and effect. 

AND IT IS HEREBY AGREED AND DECLARED that the Government shall 
b* at liberty to make good all the loss or damage that may be incurred by the 
Government from the amount of deposit made by the obligors as aforesaid 
and that the same will not prejudice Government’s right to enforce the above 
written bond. 

AND IT IS HEREBY DECLARED that this bond is given under the orders 
of the Central Government for the performance of an act in which public are 
interested. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF has/have put his/their 

respective hand/hands the day and the year herein above written. 

Signed and delivered by the within 
named obligors in th* presence of 

( 1 ) 

( 3 ) 

Aocaptad by 

for and on behalf «f the President 
•f India. 



Sic, SJ 'i'HE GAZETTE OE INDIA: FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGHA 12, 1879 


223 


Form ‘D’ 

Bond ( with surety) to be executed by exporters other than manufacturers of 

Vegetable Product. 

KNOW ALL MEN by these presents that I/We 

of reg'stered under the Central Excise Collec- 

torate, No as the exporter (s) of vegetable 

product (hereinafter called “the obligor (s)”] and I 

of (hereinafter called “the Surety”) are jointly and severally bound 

upto the President of India (hereinafter referred to as “the Government”) in 

the sum Of Rs only to be paid to the Government for which 

payment [well and truly to be made we jointly and severally bind ourselves and 
our respective heirs and legal representatives 

Dated this day of 195 

WHEREAS by a notification issued by the Central Government bearing 
No. 14/58f-Central Excises, dated the 1st February 1958, under the Central Excise 
Rules, 1944, the Central Government has directed a rebate of excise duty paid 
on the vegetable non-essential oils, other than cottonseed oil, used in the manu- 
facture of vegetable product and paid on such vegetable product at the rates 
mentioned in the said notification on its exportation to any country or territory 
out of India as mentioned therein 

AND WHEREAS the obligor (s) have exported quantity of 

vegetable: non-essential oils/vegetable products and applied for rebate of duty 
in respect of the same on its exportation 

AND WHEREAS under the said notification, the obligors are required to 
execute a bond along with a surety agreeing to indemnify the Government in regard 
to any claim made against the Government by the manufacturer for refund in 
whole or in part of excise duty on such vegetable non-essential oils 

AND WHEREAS in pursuance of the said provision the obligor and the surety 
have executed the bond as aforesa d 

NOW THE CONDITION OF THE ABOVE WRITTEN OBLIGATION is that if 
at any time hereafter a refund of excise duty in respect of the said vegetable, non- 
essential oils becomes payable to the manufacturers for which refund has been 
granted to the exporter, then the obligors and the surety shall pay to the Govern- 
ment the amount of rebate, if any, sanctioned and paid by the Government to 
the obligors and upon the obligors and/or the Surety making such payment to 
the Government, the aforesaid obligation shall be void otherwise and on breach 
or failure in the performance of the above obligation, the same shall remain in 
full force and effect 

AND IT IS HEREBY agreed and declared that the Surety shall not be dis- 
charged or released of his liability hereunder by any arrangement made between 
the Government and the obligor either with or without his consent or by any 
other alteration in the obligation undertaken by the obligor as to payment, time, 
performance or otherwise. 

AND IT IS HEREBY DECLARED that this bond is given under the orders 
of the Central Government for the performance of an act in which public are 
interested. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have put their respective hands 
the day and the year herein above written. 

Signed and delivened by the within 
named obligors in the presence of 

( 1 ) 

( 2 ) 

Signed and delivered by the within 
named surety in the presence of 

1 ) 

2 ) 

Aeeepted by 

for and on behalf ef the President 
ef India. 


[No. 14 / 58 .] 

S. K. BHATTACHARJM, Dy. Secy 



224 


1 HE GA7F71 TE OI INDIA FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGHA 12, 1879 [Paf.f II 


(Department of Revenue) 

ORDER 

Stamps 

New Delhi, the 21st January 1958 

S.R.O. 367. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub section 
(1) of section 9 of the Ipdian Stamp Act, 1899 (2 of 1899), the Central Government, 
with effect from the date of issue of this Order, reduces by one half stamp duty 
chargeable on mortgages without possession executed by industrial concerns in 
the Union territory of Delhi in favour of the Punjab Financial Corporation, 

[No. 3.] 

M. PANCHAPPA, Under Secy. 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE, DELHI 

(Central Excise) 

New Delhi, the 21st January 1958 

S.R.O. 368. — I, in pursuance of Rule 5 of the Central Excise Rules, 1944, 
empower the Central Excise Officers specified in the following table, to exercise 
the powers and perform the functions of the Inspector specified In the Central 
Excise Rules, mentioned in column (2) of the said table. 

Table 


Rank of Officer 


Central Excise Rule 


Limitations, if any 


l 


2 


3 


Supervisors 


158 To allow cleirnnccs of tobacco 

185 from Bonded wherehouses of 

Cliss III and IV categories 
only. 


[C. No, IV(8)l/57/3205.] 
R. PRASAD, Collector. 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE, BOMBAY 

NOTICE 

Bombay, the 1st. February, 1958. 

S.R.O. 369 .- Whereas ic appears that the marginally noted unclaimed goods which were 


(1) Country made liquor Thirty four full 

car v as. 

(2) Country made liquor Twenty two full 

bottles. 

(3) Country Kaju Liquor Twenty three full 
bottles. 

(4) Fine Old Brandy Fifty Six-full bottles, 
(;) St. Pauli Girl Bear One full bottle. 

(6) Country Liquor (Mada) one small full 

carva, 

(7) Gany Bags (Empty) Tare— Twenty four. 
Rice Approx. 1 1/4 B. Mds. 

Coconuts— Nine. 

Old five shirts and one old half pant. 
Indian Currency coins — One coin of 
Two (old) annas. 


seized by the Inspector of Central Excise, 
Karmal at the spots known as ‘Juna Male Hoi 
Hill Sari and Tinai khuti Sari on Goa border 
on 20-5-1957 were imported by land from Goa 
In contravention of Section 5(1) of the Land 
Customs Act 1924 and the Government of 
India, Ministry of Commerce A Industrie* 
Import Trade (Control) Order No. 17/55 dated 
7-12-55 issued under the Import & Export 
(Control) Act 1947 and deemed to have been 
issued under section 19 of the Sea Custom* 
Act 1878 the Goa Country liquor was imported 
m contravention of the Government of India 


Finance Department Notification No. 2 Camp- 
Cus, dated 26-1-1946 issued under Section 19 
of the Sea Customs Act 1878, Now therefore any 

(12) Portuguese Currency Coins— One coin of person claming the goods is hereby called upon, 
one Tanga. 




SEC, S] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY I, I958/MAGHA 12, 1879 


225 


o show cause to the Collector of Central .Excise, Bombay why the above mentioned goods and 
coins should not be confiscated under Section 5(3) of the Land Customs Act 1924 read with Sections 
167(8) and 168 of the Sea Customs Act 1878 and why a penalty should not be imposed on him under 
Section 7 (1) (c) of the Land Customs Act 1924^ id with Section 167 5 (8) of the Sea Customs 
Act 1878. 

If such an owner fails to turn up to claim the above mentioned unclaimed goods or to show 
cause agiinst the action proposed to be taken within 30 days from the publication of this notice in 
the Government of India Gazette, the goods in question will be treated as unclaimed and the case 
■will be decided accordingly. 

[No, ViII(b)iO(io6)Cus/57'] 

T. C. SETH, Collector. 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 


Income-tax 


New Delhi, the 23rd January 1958 


S.R.O. 370. — The following draft of a further amendment in the Indian 
Income-tax Rules, 1922, which the Central Board of Revenue proposes to make 
in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1), read with clause (a) 
of sub-iection (2), of section 59 of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (11 of 1922), 
is published as required by sub-section (4) of the said section, for the informa- 
tion of all persons likely to be affected thereby, and notice is hereby given that 
•the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 1st March, 1958. 

2. Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft on or before the date so specified will be considered 
fcy the said Board. 


Draft Amendment 

In the said rules, after rule 13D, the following rule shall be inserted 
namely: — 

“13E. The estimate of tax which an assessee has to communicate to the 
Income-tax Officer under sub-section (2) or sub-section (3) of 
section 18A shall be in the following form: — 

Form for communication to the Income-tax Officer of an assessee’s estimate 
of the tax payable by him under section ISA calculated on his estimated income 
to which this section applies. 


Sub-section applicable : — 


Name of the assessee : 

Status (Please state whether individual, Hindu 
undivided family, Firm, Company, Local 
authority or an Association of Persons). 

Re ident and Ordinarily Resident/Resident 
but not Ordinarily Resident/Non-resident. 

Address : — — 


Sub-seciion (2) of Section 18 A 
Sub-sec'ion (3) of Section 18A 


In the case of a firm, please state : 

whether firm has been registered in last completed assessment. 


whether firm has submitted an application lor reghtralion, 

(Date of application should be given). 

In the case of a non-resident, please state whether option in terms of the proviso to section ufi'i 
has been exercised and if so, the date of the exercise of the option J 



226 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 1, 1951/MAGHA 12, 1*79 [Past II 


The tax payable by the assessee named above for the previous year ending on 

is estimated as follows : — 

i. Estimated ‘total income’ 

(1) Income assessable under section 7 : Rs 

(2) Income assessable under section * : Rs 

( 3 ) Income assessable under section 9 : 

(give deLails of each property) 

Address Annual Net income 
value 

Rs, Rs. 

Torai Rs 

(4). Incqme assessable under section 10 : 

(aj Proprie- Name Address 

tary 

Business : 


a) 

Rs. ... 

it) 

Rs. ... 


fb) Partnership Name of Address 
Business : ihe firm 


Whether firm has Share 
been registered of 
in the last income 
completed 
assessment. 


(i> 

Rs 


(11) 

Rs 


(tii) 

Rs 


(c) Income from Association of Persona 

Rs 


Total 


Rs. 

(5) Income assessable under seel ion 12 : 

Rs , . . . 


(i) Dividends : 

Rs. ... 


(ii) Interest : 

Rs. ... 


(iii) Other items 

Rs. 



Total 


Rs. 

Total income 


Rt. 

2. Adjustment to total income to 
arrive at “total world income" 
in th« case of a non-iosidcnt : 


Rs. 



Sec. SJ THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY X, 1958 /MAGHA 12 , 1179 


22J- 


3 . Total world income 


Rs 

Income-tax Super-iax 

Rs. Rs. 


Gross income-tax and super-tax chargeable on total world 
income (in the case of a non-resident only) - 

Gross incoinc-tax and super-tax chargeable On “total income". 


Sums included in total income in respect 
of atliidf no advance tax is payable. 


(i) income to which the provisions 
of sec. ig apply : 

(it) shale from an unregistered firm 
on which the tax will be paid by 
the firm (clause(a) of sec. 14 (2)] ■ 

(Hi) amount of tax payable by a 
registered firm [clause (aa) of 
sec. 14(2) ] 

iv'l share from an association of 
persons on which tax will be 
paid by the Association 
[clause (b) of Section 14(2) J. 


(d) interest on tax free securities : 
(vi) Life Insurance Premia : 


Rs. 


To'al amount on which tax is not for I. T. for S. T. 
payable and proportionate lax Rs. Rs. 

thereon : 

DEDUST 

(i) amount by which the net dividend ucome, if any, 
is increased. 


(ii) any excess tax on income on which income-tax 
and super-tax is deductible under section IS. 


(iii) ribatc on Corporation Tax admissible under 
Section yd-A. 

j 

(iv) rdbate on Corporation Tax admissible under the 
provisions of the Current Finance Act. 


Net amount of income-tax and super-tax : 


Less amount on account of estimated double income-tax 
relief, if any, under Section 49 A and 49D. 


Net amount payable : 


Less tax already paid in the financial year under Section 
rSA (1) or Section i8A(3) : 

Balance payable ; 


Date 
Place :■ 


T a 

Tfi# Income-tax Oficer, 


Signature of the person making the eitimate. 
♦Status - — - 


*T«* estimate of income should lac signed. 



_2jg THE GAZETTE OF INDL\: FEBRUARY i, I958/MACHA 12, 1879 [Part. II 


(1) in the case of an ‘individual’ by the individual himself, 

(2) in the case of a Hindu Undivided Fam ly by the Manager or Karta. 

(3) in the case of a company or local authority by the Principal Officer, 

(4) in the case of a Arm by a partner, 

(5) in the case of an Association of Persons by a member of the Association. 

Note. — In the case of a registered Arm, the firm has to submit an estimate of 
-the tax payable, if any, by the firm under para. D of the Schedule to the Indian 
finance Act, 1957. The individual partners have also to submit an estimate of 
the income of each including therein the share income from the registered 
partnership.” 

[No. 6(F. No. 12 (4) -IT/57).] 
P. N. DAS GUPTA, Secy. 


Estate Duty 

New Delhi , the 25 th January 1953 

S.R.O. 371. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
nub-section (2) of Section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953, (34 of 1953). the Central 
Beard of Revenue hereby directs that every Inspecting Assistant Commissioner 
xif Income-tax, Estate Duty Range, Patna, appointed to be a Deputy Controller and 
.exercising jurisdiction over the Estate Duty cum Incometax Circles, Patna and 
(Ranchi, shall perform his functions as Deputy Controller In the said Circles to the 
/exclusion of all other Deputy Controllers In respect of the estates ot all deceased 
persons who Immediately before their death were being, or would have been, 
assessed to Income-tax, had they derived any taxable income in any Income-tax 
Circle within the jurisdiction of the Commissioner of Income-tax. Bihar and Orissa, 
Patna. 


Explanatory Note 

(This note is not part of the’ Notification but Is Intended merely to be clariflca- 
tory) . 

The purpose of this Notification is to clarify that the Inspecting Assistant 
■ Commissioner of Income-tax, Estate Duty Range, is to perform the functions of a 
Deputy Controller of Estate Duty in relation to the Estate Duty cum Income-tax 
Circles within the charge of the Commissioner of Income-tax, Bihar & Orissa, to 
the exclusion of all other Inspecting Assistant Commissioners. 

[No. 19/F. No. 34/3/57-E.D.] 

S.R.O. 372. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub-section (2) of Section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953, (34 of 1953), the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that every Inspecting Assistant Commissioner of 
Income-tax, Estate Duty Range, Lucknow, appointed to be a Deputy Controller and 
exercising jurisdiction over the Estate Duty cum Income-tax Circles, Kanpur, 
Lucknow, Meerut and Varanasi, shall perform his functions as Deputy Controller 
In the said Circles to the exclusion of all other Deputy Controllers in respect of 
the estates of all deceased persons who immediately hefore their death were being, 
or would have been, assessed to Income-tax. had they derived any taxable Income 
In any Income-tax Circle within the jurisdiction of the Commissioner of Income-tax, 
Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow. 


Explanatory Note 

(This note Is not part ot the Notification but Is intended merely to be clarlflca- 
tory). 

The purpose of this Notification is to clarify that the Inspecting Assistant 
Commissioner of Income-tax. Estate Duty Range, is to perform the functions of a 
Deputy Controller of Estate Duty in respect of the Estate Duty cum Income-tax 
Circles within the charge of the Commissioner of Income-tax, Uttar Pradesh, to the 
exclusion of all other Inspecting Assistant Commissioners. 

[No. 20/F.No. 34/3/57-E.D.] 



Sec. S] !tHE GAZETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGHA 12, 1879 22 g- 


S.R.Q. 373.— In exercise of the- powers conferred by the second proviso to' 
sub-section (2) of Section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 (34 of 1853), the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that every Inspecting Assistant Commissioner of 
Income-tax, Estate Duty Range, Simla, appointed to be a Deputy Controller and 
exercising jurisdiction over the Estate Duty cum Income-tax Circles, Amritsar and 
Patiala, shall perform his functions as Deputy Controller in the said Circles to 
the exclusion of all oLher Deputy Controllers in respect of the estates of all 
deceased persons who immediately before their death were being, or would have 1 
been, assessed to Income-tax, had they derived any taxable income in any Income- 
tax Girdle within the jurisdiction of the Commissioner of Income-tax, Punjab^ 
Jammu pnd Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. 

Explanatory Note 

(Thisj note is not part of the Notification but is intended merely to be clarifies-- 
tory) , 

The purpose of this Notification is to clarify that the Inspecting Assistant 
Commissioner of Income-tax, Estate Duty Range, is to perform the functions of a 
Deputy Controller of Estate Duty in relation to the Estate Duty cum Income-tax 
Circles within the charge of the Commissioner of Income-tax, Punjab, Jammu and 
Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh, to the exclusion of all other Inspecting Assistant 
Commissioners- 


[No. 21/F.No. 34/3/57-E.D.] 

S.R.Q. 374.— In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub-section (2) of Section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953, (34 of 1953), the Central 
Board erf Revenue hereby directs that every Inspecting Assistant Commissioner of 
Income-tax, Estate Duty Range, Nagpur appointed to be a Deputy Controller and 
exercising jurisdiction over the Estate Duty cum Income-tax Circle, Nagpur, shall- 
perform his functions oi all other Deputy Controller in the said Circle to the 
exclusion of all other Deputy Controllers in respect of the estates of all deceased 
persons who immediately before their death were being, or would have been, 
assessed to Income-tax, had they derived any taxable income in any Income-tax 
Circle within the jurisdiction of the Commissioner of Income-tax, Madhya Pradesh 
and Bhandara, Nagpur 

Explanatory Note 

(This note Is not part of the Notification but is intended merely to be clariflca- 
tory). 

The [purpose of this Notification is to clarify that the Inspecting Assistant 
Commissioner of Income-tax, Estate Duty Range, is to perform the functions of a 
Deputy Controller of Estate Duty in relation to the Estate Duty cum Income-tax 
Circle within the charge of the Commissioner of Income-tax. Madhya Pradesh and 
Bhandara, Nagpur, to the exclusion of ail other Inspecting Assistant Commissioners. 

TNo. 22/F. No- 34/3/57-E.D.? 

S.RX). 375. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub-section (2) of Section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953, (34 of 1953), the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that every Inspecting Assistant Commissioner of 
Income-tax, Estate Duty Range, Ernakulam, appointed to be a Deputy Controller 
and exercising jurisdiction over the Estate Duty cwn Income-tax Circles, 
Coimbatore and Ernakulam, shall perform his functions as Deputy Controller in 
the said Circles to the exclusion of all other Deputy Controllers in respect of the 
estates of all deceased persons who immediately before their death were being, or 
would have been, assessed to Income-lax, had they derived any taxable income i» 
any Income-tax Circle within the jurisdiction of the Commissioner of Income-tax, 
Kerala, Coimbatore. 

Explanatory Note 

(This note is not part of the Notification but is intended merely to be clarlflca- 
tory) . 

The purpose of this Notification is to clarify that the Inspecting Assistant 
Commissioner of Income-tax, Estate Duty Range, is to perform the functions of a 
Deputy Controller of Estate Duty in relation to the Estate Duty cum Income-tax 
Ciicleg within the charge of the Commissioner of Income-tax, Kerala, to the 
exclusion of all other Inspecting Assistant Commissioners. 

[No, 23/F. No. 34/3/57-E.D.} 



.230 the GA7ETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGHA 12, 1879 [Part II 


S.R.O. 376.— In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub-section (2) of Section 4 of the Estate Duty Act. 1953 (34 of 19531. the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that every Inspecting Assistant Commissioner of 
Income-tax, Estate Duty Range, Bangalore, appointed to be a Deputy Controller and 
exercising jurisdiction over the Estate Duty cum Income-tax Circle, Bangalore, shall 
perform his functions as Deputy Controller in the said Circle to the exclusion of all 
other Deputy Controllers In respect of the estates of all deceased persons who 
Immediately before their death were being, or would have been, assessed to Income- 
tax. had they derived any taxable Income In any Income-tax Circle within the 
Jurisdiction of the Commissioner of Income-tax, Mysore, Bangalore, 

Explanatory Note 

(This note is not part of the Notification but Is intended merely to be rlarifica- 

tory). 

The purpose of this Notification is to clarify that the Inspecting Assistant 
'Commissioner of Income-tax, Estate Duty Range, is to perform the functions oi a 
Deputy Controller of Estate Duty in relation to the Estate Duty cum Income-tax 
•Circle within the charge of the Commissioner of Income-tax, Mysore, to the exclu- 
sion of all other Inspecting Assistant Commissioners. 

TNo. 24/F, No. 34/3/57-E.D.] 

S.R.O. 377. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
aub-section (2) of Section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 (34 of 1953), the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that every Inspecting Assistant Commissioner of 
Income-tax, Estate Duty Range, Shillong, appointed to be a Deputy Controller and 
exercising jurisdiction over the Estate Duty cum Income-tax Circle, Dibrugarh, 
shall perform his functions as Deputy Controller in the said Circle to the exclusion 
of all other Deputy Controllers In respect of the estates of all deceased persons 
who Immediately before their death were heing, or would have been, assessed to 
Income-tax, had they derived any taxable income in any Income-tax Circle within 
the jurisdiction of the Commissioner of Income-tax, Assam, Shillong. 

Explanatory Note 

(This note Is not part of the Notification but Is intended merely to be clariflca- 
tory) , 

The purpose of this Notification is to clarify that the Inspecting Assistant 
•Commissioner of Income-tax, Estate Duty Range, is to parform the functions of a 
Deputy Controller of Estate Duty in relation to the Estate Duty cum Income-tax 
'Circle within the charge of the Commissioner of Income-tax, Assam, to the exclusion 
of all other Inspecting Assistant Commissioners, 

[No, 25/F. No. 34/3/57-E.D.] 


S.R.O. 378. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
aub-section (2) of Section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 (34 of 1953), the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that every Inspecting Assistant Commissioner of 
Income-tax, Estate Duty Range. Delhi, appointed to be a Deputy Controller and 
exercising jurisdiction over the Estate Duty cum Income-tax Circles, Delhi and 
Jaipur, shall perform his functions as Deputy Controller in the said Circles to the 
exclusion of all deceased persons who immediately before their death were being, 
or would have been, assessed to Income-tax, had they derived any taxable Income 
In any Income-tax Circle within the jurisdiction of the Commissioner of Income-tax, 
Delhi and Rajasthan, 


Explanatory Note 

(This note is not part of the Notification but is Intended merely to be clariflca- 
tory) . 

The purpose of this Notification Is to clarify that the Inspecting Assistant 
•Commissioner of Income-tax, Estate Dutv Range, is to perform the functions of a 
Deputy Controller of Estate Duty in relation to the Estate Duty cum Income-tax 
Circles within the charge of the Commissioner of Income-tax, Delhi and Rajasthan. 
4o the exclusion of all other Inspecting Assistant Commissioners. 

[No. 20/F. No. 34/3/57-E.D.] 



Sec. 3] jj~HE GAZET1 


GAZETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGHA J2, 1879 


231 


S.R.O. 379. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to sub- 
jection (2) of Section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 (34 of 1953), the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that every Inspecting Assistant Commissioner of 
Income-tax, Estate Duty Range, Calcutta, appointed to be a Deputy Controller 
and exercising jurisdiction over the Estate Duty cum Income-tax Circles, 
Calcutta (Mofussil) and Jalpaiguri, shall perform his functions as Deputy Con- 
troller in the said Circles to the exclusion of all other Deputy Controllers in 
respect of the estates of all deceased persons who immediately before their death 
were being, or would have been, assessed to Income-tax, had they derived any 
taxable income in any Income-tax Circle within the jurisdiction of the following 
Commissioners of Income-tax: — 


( 1 ) 

( 2 ) 

(3) 


West Bengal, 
Calcutta, 

(Central) Calcutta. 


Explanatory Note 

(This note is not part of the Notification but is intended merely to be elarifleatory). 

The purpose of this Notification is to clarify that the. Inspecting Assistant Com- 
missioner of Income-tax, Estate Duty Range, is to perform the functions of a 
Deputy Controller of Estate Duty in relation to the Estate Duty cum Income-tax 
Circles within the charges of the Commissioners of Income-tax, West Bengal. 
Calcutta, (Central) Calcutta, to the exclusion of all other Inspecting Assistant 
Commissioners. 


[No. 27/F. No. 34/3/67-E.D.] 


S.R.O. 380. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to sub- 
section (2) of Section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 (34 of 1953) the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that every Inspecting Assistant Commissioner 
of Income-tax, Estate Duty Range, Bombay, appointed to be a Deputy Controller 
and exercising jurisdiction over the Estate Duty cum Income-tax Circle, Bombay, 
shall perform his functions as Deputy Controller in the said Circle to the exclusion 
of all other Deputy Controllers in respect of the estates of all deceased persons 
who immediately before their death were being, or would have, been assessed to 
Income-tax, had they derived any taxable income in any Income-tax Circle within 
the jurisdiction of the following Commissioners of Income-tax: — 

(1) Bombay City I. 

(2) Bombay City II. 

(3) Bombay (Central). 


Explanatory Note 

(This note is not part of the Notification but is intended merely to be clariflcatory). 

The purpose of this Notification is to clarify that the Inspecting Assistant 
Commissioner of Income-tax, Estate Duty Range, is to perform the functions of a 
Deputy Controller of Estate Duty in relation to the Estate Duty cum Income-tax 
Circle within the charges of the Commissioners of Income-tax, Bombay City I, 
Bombay City II and Bombay (Central), to the exclusion of all other Inspecting 
Assistant Commissioners. 


[No. 28/F. No. 34/3/57.] 

S.R.O, 381. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to sub- 
section (2) of Section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 (34 of 1953), the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that every Inspecting Assistant Commissioner 
of Income-tax, Estate Duty Range, Ahmedabad, appointed to be a Deputy Con- 
troller and exercising jurisdiction over the Estate Duty cum Income-tax Circles, 
Ahmedabad, Baroda, Rajkot and Surat, shall perform his functions as Deputy 
Controller in the said Circles to the exclusion of all other Deputy Controllers in 
respect of the estates of all deceased persons who immediately before their death 
were being, or would have been, assessed to Income-tax, had they derived any 
taxable income in any Income-tax Circle within the jurisdiction of the Com- 
missioner of Income-tax, Bombay North, Ahmedabad. 



II 


232 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 1. 1958/MAGHA 12, 


L rj 


Explanatory Note 

(This note is not part of the Notification but is intended merely to be clarificatory). 

The purpose of this Notification is to clarify that the Inspecting Assistant 
Commissioner of Income-tax, Estate Duty Range, is to perform the functions of 
a Deputy Controller of Estate Duty In relation to the Estate Duty cum Income-tax 
Circles within the charge of the Commissioner of Income-tax, Bombay North, to 
the exclusion of all other Inspecting Assistant Commissioners. 

[No. 29/F. No. 34/3/57-E.D.J 

S.R.O. 382. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to sub- 
section (2) of section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 (34 of 1953), the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that every Inspecting Assistant Commissioner 
of Income-tax, Estate Duty Range, Poona, appointed to be a Deputy Controller 
and exercising jurisdiction over the Estate Duty cum Income-tax Circle, Poona, 
shall perform his functions as Deputy Controller in the said Circle to the exclusion 
of all other Deputy Controllers in respect of the estates of all deceased persons 
who immediately before their death were being, or would have been, assessed to 
Income-tax, had they derived any taxable income in any Income-tax Circle within 
the jurisdiction of the Commissioner of Income-tax, Bombay South, Bombay. 

Explanatory Note 

(This note is not part of the Notification but is intended merely to be clarificatory). 

The purpose of this Notification is to clarify that the Inspecting Assistant 
Commissioner of Income-tax, Estate Duty Range, is to perform the functions of 
a Deputy Controller of Estate Duty in relation to the Estate Duty cum Income-tax 
Circle within the charge of the Commissioner of Income-tax, Bombay South, to 
the exclusion of all other Inspecting Assistant Commissioners. 

[No. 30/F. No. 34/3/57-E.D.J 


S.R.O. 383. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to sub- 
section (2) of section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 (34 of 1953) the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that every Inspecting Assistant Commissioner 
of Income-tax, Estate Duty Range, Madras, appointed to be a Deputy Controller 
and exercising jurisdiction over the Estate Duty cum Income-tax Circles, Madras 
Madhurai and Salem, shall perform his functions as Deputy Controller in the said 
Circle to the exclusion of all other Deputy Controllers in respect of the estates 
of all deceased persons who Immediately before their death were being, or would 
have been, assessed to Income-tax, had they derived any taxable income, in any 
Income-tax Circle within the jurisdiction of the Commissioner of Income-tax, 
Madras. 


Explanatory Note 

(This note is not part of the Notification but is intended merely to be clarificatory). 

The purpose of this Notification is to clarify that the Inspecting Assistant 
Commissioner of Income-tax, Estate Duty Range, is to perform the functions of 
a Deputy Controller of Estate Duty in relation to the Estate Duty cum Income-tax 
Circles within the charge of the. Commissioner of Income-tax, Madras, to the 
exclusion of all other Inspecting Assistant Commissioners. 

[No. 31/F, No. 34/3/57-E.D.) 

S.R.O, 384. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to sub- 
section (2) of section 4 of the Estate. Duty Act, 1953 (34 of 1953), the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that every Inspecting Assistant Commissioner 
of Income-tax, Estate Duty Range, Hyderabad, appointed to be a Deputy Con- 
troller and exercising jurisdiction over the Estate Duty cum Income-tax Circles, 
Hyderabad and Vijayawada, shall perform his functions as Deputy Controller in 
the said Circles to the exclusion of all other Deputy Controllers in respect of the 
estates of all deceased persons who immediately before their death were being, or 
would have been, assessed to Income-tax, had they derived any taxable income 
in any Income-tax Circle within the jurisdiction of the Commissioner of Income- 
tax, Andhra Pradesh, Hyderabad-Deccan. 



Sec. 3] ^HE GAZETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGHA 12, 1879 


Explanatory Note 

(This note is not part of the Notification but is intended merely to be clariflcatory). 

The purpose of this Notification is to clarify that the Inspecting Assistant 
Commissioner of Income-tax, Estate Duty Range, is to perform the functions of 
a Deputy Controller oE Estate Duty in relation to the Estate Duty cum Income-tax 
Circles within the charge ol the Ciommissioner ol Income-tax, Andhra Pradesh, to 
the exclusion of all other Inspecting Assistant Commissioners 

| No. 32/F. No. 34/3/57-E.D,] 

B. M. M1TRA, Secy. 


Central Excise 

New Delhi, the 1st February 1 950 

S.R.O. 385. — In pursuance of the proviso to sub-rule (1) of rule 32 ol the 
Cential Excise Rule a . 1944, the Centnl Board of Ice venue hereby directs that the 
following further amendment shall be made in its notification No. 24-Cenlral 
Excises, dated the 23rd .luly, 1940, as subsequently amended, namely: — 

In the said notification, for sub-items (i) and (11) of item (d), the words 
“exceeding twentyftve standard maunds of duty-paid tobacco" shall 
be substituted. 

[No. 15/58.] 


Customs 

New Delhi, the 1st F ehivary 1058 

S.R.O. 386. — In exercise ol the powers conferred by clause (c) of section 9 
of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), the Central Board of Revenue hereby 
makes the following amendment in th" Central Board of Revenue Notification 
No. 3-Customs dated the 8th January, 1955, namely: — 

In the rule published with the said notification alter the words "he shall 
make a claim in writing in that behalf" the words "under his 
signature" shall be inserted. 


LNo. 23.] 

S. K. BHATTACHARJEE, Secy. 


Customs 

New Delhi, the 1st February 1958 

S.R.O. 387. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 79 of the, Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), the Central Board of Revenue hereby makes the 
following further amendment m the rules published with its notification No. 111- 
Customs, dated the 9th September, 1950, namely: — 

In rule 1 of the said rules, for the wmrds “in Saurashtra State and Port 
Commissioner and Harbour Engineer Kutch, in Kutch State”, the 
words “in the Halar, Gohilwar, Madhya Saurashtra, Zalawad and 
Sorath Districts, and the Port Officer and Harbour Engineer, Kutch, 
in the Kutch District, of the State of Bombay" shall be substituted. 

[No. 19,] 
B. D. DESHMUKH, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

New Delhi, the 23 rd January 1958 

S.R.O. 388.-7 The Ra.iya Sabha having elected Shri K. P. Madhavan Nair as 
a member of the Coir Board to represent Parliament (Rajya Sabha) in the said 
Board, the Central Government in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (e) 
of sub-section (3) of section 4 of the Coir Industry Act, 1953 (45 of 1953) read 



234 THE CA7ETTE OF INDIA: FFflRUARY ]. 1958/M \C,HA 12, 1879 [Part II 


with sub-rule. (1) of rule 4 and sub-rule 11) of rule 5 of the Coir Industry Rules, 
19,14, hereby appoints the said Shri K. P IVIadhavan Nair as a member of the 
said Board for the period beginning with the date of thf s notification and endlnu 
with the 25th day of July, 1960. ‘ 


[No, F.42-SSl(B)(34)/57.] 
M. S, SADiASIVAN, Under Secy. 


New Delhi , the 23 rd January 1958 

S.R.O. 389. — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by clause 20 of the 
Cotton Control Order, 1955, and with the previous sanction of the Central Gov- 
ernment, I hereby direct that the, following further amendments shall be made in 
the Textile Commissioner's Notification No. S.R.O. 1104 dated the 28th April, 
1956, namely:— 


In the schedule appended to the said notification — 


In column 2, against serial Nos 1, 2 and 2A; for Cotton Adviser, the follow- 
ing shall be substituted, namely:- — 


“Director (Cotton)”. 


(Sd.) V. Nanjappa, 


Textile Commissioner. 


[No. 24(3)-TEX(A)/58-l.] 


S.R.O. 390. — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by sub-clausc (1) 
of clause, 3 of the Cotton Control Order, 1955, I hereby direct that the following 
further amendment shall be made in the Textile Commissioner’s Notification 
No. S.R.O. 3100, dated the 24th September, 1957, namely: — 

In schedule ‘B’ appended to the said notification for the words and letters, 
“Shri D. N. Mahta”, the following shall be substituted, namely: — 


“Shri R. D. Shah”, 

(Sd.) V. Nanjappa, 
Textile Commissioner, 
[No. 24(3)-TEX(A)/58-2.J 


Bombay, the 9th January 1958 

S.R.O. 391. — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by clause 22 of the 
Cotton Textiles (Control) Order, 1948, I hereby cancel the Textile Commissioner’s 
Notification No. 9(9)-Tex-l/49(i;, dated 6th July, 1950. 


(Sd.) V. Nanjappa, 
Textile Commissioner, 
[No. TC(23)/50.] 

New Delhi, the 25 th January 1958 

S.R.O. 392.— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the. Dhoties 
(Additional Excise Duty) Act, 1953 (39 of 1953), and in supersession of the 
Dhoties Fixation of Collective Quota Rules, 1953, the Central Government hereby 
makes the following rules, namely: — 

1. Short title . — These rules may be called the Dhoties (Fixation of Collective 
Quota) Rules, 1958, 

2. Definitions . — In these rules, — 

(a) “the Act” means the Dhoties (Additional Excise Duty) Act, 1953 (39 of 

1953). 

(b) “collective quota”, in relation to a group of mills, means the permis- 

sible quota of dhoties which may be Issued out of that group of 
mills as a whole during a quarter as fixed under sub-section (3) of 
section 3 of the Act. 

3 Application for collective quota . — (1) Any group of mills desirous of having 
a collective quota of dhoties fixed for that group may make an application for 
that purpose, to the Textile Commissioner to the Government of India m the 
form annexed to these rules. 



235 


Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OK INDIA- FEBRUUU' I, HDfl/MAGHA 12, 187!) 


12) An application under sub-rule (1) shall bo made so as to reach the Textile 
Commissioner at least thirty days before the commencement of the quarter with 
effect from which tile collective quota is desired to be fixed: 


Provided that the application for having the, collective quota fixed with effect 
from the quarter ending on the 31st day of March, 1058, may he made so as to 
reach the Ifextile Commissioner before the 15th February, 1058. 

a. Procedbire for fixation of collective quota , — (1) On receipt of an application 
from a groujp of mills under rule 3, the Textile Commissioner may, after making 
«uch inquiries for verification of the particulars stated in the application 
and also suejh other inquiries as he deems necessary, fix by order in wilting the 
collective quota for that group. 

(2) If, on receipt of any application in this behalf or otherwise, the Textile 
Commissioner is of opinion that the collective quota fixed for a group of milla 
should bo revised, he may, after giving the mills concerned opportunity of 
showing cause, cancel, vary or amend the order by which the collective quota 
for that group of mills has been fixed. 

(3) A copy of every order made under sub-rule (1) or sub-rule (2) shall bo 
sent to the mills concerned and also to the Central Excise Officers in charge 
of the said prills. 

5. Mills tb furnish information etc . — The mills applying for a collective quota 
under rule 3 shall produce or cause to be produced such documents or furnish 
such information as the Textile Commissioner may from time to time require in 
support of the application. 


Fount of Application 
(See rule 3) 

Important. — This form should be completed and sent to the office of the 
Textile Commissioner, CST Section, Ballard Estate, Bombay — 1. 

Mills are (advised in their interests to post the returns under a certificate of 
posting or by registered post with an acknowledgment due. 

1. Narrte of the mills which desire to form a group for the purpose of 

collective quota. 

2. Address of each mill in the group, 

3. Tex-mark No. of each mill in the group. 

4. State/States in which the mills are situated. 

5. Name and address of the Managing Agents. 

6. Permissible quota for each mill in accordance with the provisions of 

the Dhoties (Additional Excise Duty) Act, 1953. 

7. Reasons why a collective quota for the group of mills Is desired. 

8. The quarter with effect from which the collective quota Is desired to be 

fixed. 

I hereby declare that the particulars given above, in so far as I can ascertain, 
are accurate and complete. 

Signature of the Managing Agents. 

Date, 

Place, 


[No. 2(7)-TEX(A)/58-l.] 
V. V. NENE, Under Secy. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 1, 195 8/M AG HA 12. 1879 [Part II 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 25th January 1958 

S.R.O. 393/IDRA/6/7/Am.(4).— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
G of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act. 1951 (65 of 1951), the 
Central Government hereby declares that Ihe Development Council established for 
the scheduled industries engaged in thy manufacture and production of pharmaceu- 
ticals and drugs, under the Government of India, late Ministry ol Heavy Industries 
Order No S.RO. 593 dated the 23id February 1957, shall be re-design, itcd as the 
Development Council for Drugs, Dyes and Intermediates, and directs that the 
following amendments shall be made m SR.O. 593 ulurcsalrT — 

In the opening paragraph of the said Order — ■ 

(a) for the words “Development Council for the scheduled industries engaged 

in the manufacture and production ol pharmaceuticals and drugs”, 
the wurds “Development Council tor t lie scheduled industries engaged 
in the manufacture and production of Drugs, Dyes and Intermediates” 
shall be substituted; 

(b) in the entries against “being persons who in ihe opinion of the Central 

Government are cap lble of representing the interests of owners of 
industrial undertakings in the said scheduled industries”, after entry 
No. 5 relating to Dr, K. A. Handed, ihe following entries shall be 
inserted, namely:— 

"5A. Shri Siddarth Kasturbhai, The Atul Products Ltd-, Post Atul (Via) 
■Bulsar W. Rl.v. 

5B. Shri J. H. Doshi, Director, The Amar Dye-Chem. Ltd., ‘‘Rang Udyan", 
Sltaladevi Temple Road, Mubini, Bombay— 16. 

5C. Shri Yogindra N. Mafatlal. Indian Dyestuff Industries Ltd., Mafatlal 
House, Back Bnv Reclamation, Bombay — 1, 

5D. Shri V. D. Dcsal, Managing Director, Arlabs Private Ltd., No- 0 — 2nd 
Floor, "India House" P.O Box No. 1442, Bombay — 1. 

5E, Shri Santokh Singh, Managing Proprietor, National Chemical Industries, 
26, Najafgarh Rond, Delhi.”’ 

(c) in the entries against “being persons who In the opinion of the Central 

Government have special knowledge of matters relating to the technical 
or other aspects ol the said scheduled industries,” after entry No, 8A 
relating to Dr- B. Mukerji, the following entries shall be inserted, 
namely:— 

”8B. Dr. K. Venkataraman, Director, National Chemical Laboratory, Poona. 
8C. Dr. S- R. Ramachandran, Director, Office of the Textile Commissioner, 
Wittet Road, Ballard Estate, Bombay. 

8D Dr. G. Kasbekar, Assistant Director General, Ordnance Factories, 
Calcutta-” 


[No, 5 (33) I A Cl I) (G) / 57.1 
K, C. MADAPPA. Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 25 th January 1958 

S.R.O. 394/IDRA/18G/22/58. — In exercise, of the powers conferred by section 
18G of tho Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951), the 
Central Government hereby makes the following amendment in the Cement Control 
Order, 1956, namely: — 

In the Schedule to the said Order, after serial 16, the lollowing serial shall 
be added namely:— 

”17. M/s. K.C.P. Ltd., Macherla Rs- 54 50” 


[No. Cem-8(44)/57,] 
B- B, NAG, Under Secy. 



Sfc. 3] j’HE GAZETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGIIA 12, lB/9 237 


(Department of Commerce anti Light Industries) 

Rubber Control 

New Delhi, the 2'.ird January 1958 

S.R.O, 395. — In exercise of the cowers conferred hy clause (b) of sub-section 
t3) of Section 4 of the Rubber Act, 1447 (21 oi 1447) read with sub-rule (2) of 
iulc 3 of the Rubber Rules, 1955, the Conti al Government hereby nominates 
Shri A. Venkatcsan, IAS, Director of Agriculture, Madras, to be a member of 
the Rubhhr B'ard in the vacancy caused hy the resignation of Shri E. U, Damo- 
daruu, and directs that the following further amendment shall be made in the 
notiliodtioh of the Government of India jn the Ministry of Commerce and Industry 
No. S.R.O. 17G5, dated the lOtlr August, 1955, namely: — 

In the said notification, for the entry — 

“(1) Shri E, U. Damodaran, Director of Agriculture, Madras —nominated 
by the Government of Madras” 
the following entry shall be substituted, namely: — 

"(1) Shri A, Venkalesan, I.A S., Director of Agriculture, Madras — nominated 
by the Government of Madras.” 


[No. F.15(l)Plant(B)/57.] 


(Department of Commerce and Light Industries) 

Coffee Control 

New Delhi, the 20th January 1958 

S.R.O. 396. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (iv) of sub- 
section (2) and sub-section (3) of Section 4 of the Coffee Act, 1952 (7 of 1952), 
read with sub-rule (1) of rule (3) of the Coffee Rules, 1955, the Central Govern- 
ment hereby nominates Shri A. Venkatesan, I.A.S.. Director of Agriculture, 
Madras, to be a member of the Coffee Board in the vacancy caused by the resig- 
nation of Shri E. U. Damodaran and makes the following further amendment 
in the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce 
and Industry No. S.R.O. 1764, dated the 10th August, 1955, namely — 

In thje said notification, for the entry — 

“(3) Shri E. U. Damodaran, I.AS., Director of Agriculture, Madras — nomi- 
nated by the Government of Madras to represent that Government” 
the following entry shall be substituted, namely — 

“(3) Shri A. Vekatesan, I.A.S.. Director of Agriculture, Madras- 

nominated by the Government of Madras to represent that Govern- 
ment”. 


[No, 1(2) Plant (B)/57.] 
A. K, CHAKRA VARTI, Under Secy. 


(Indian Standards Institution) 

New Delhi, the i 6 ih January 1958 

S.R.O. 397 — In pursuance of sub-regulations (2) and (3) of regulation 3 of the Indian 
Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, I9(i5, the Indian Standards Institution 
hereby notifies that the Indian Standards, particulars of which are given im the Schedule beret* 
i«»e*ed hare keen established daring the perind 1st t* 15th Januarg 195I. 



OF 


GA 


A: FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MACHA 12, 1879 [Part, ll 


The Schedule 


SI. 

No. 

No. and title of the Indian 
Standard established 

No. and title of the 
Indian Standard or 
standards, if any, 
supeiseded by the 
new Indian Standard 

Biief Particulars 

(1) 

(2) 

( 3 ) 

( 4 ) 


i. IS : 814-1957 Spccifica ion for 
Covered Electrodes for Metal 
Arc Welding of Mild Steel. 


2. IS : 1076-1957 Preferred Num- 
bers. 


3. IS : noi-1957 Specification for 
Handloom Cotton Cellular 
Shirting, Bleached or Dyed. 


4. IS : 1 105-1957 Method for Pre- 
cise Conversion of Inch and 
Metric Dimensions to ensure 
Interchangcahility. 


5. IS : 1173-1957 Speciticati n for 
Rolled Steel Sections, Tec 
Bars. 


This standard lays down the re- 
quirements of covered elec- 
trodes used in metal arc welding 
and the specific methods for 
evaluating them. This stan- 
dard also covers additional 
requirements for deep pene- 
tration electrodes for use in 
certain welding positions. 
(Price Rs, 3 -oo). 

Part I of this standard explains, in 
brief, the theory of preferred 
numbers and lists the preferred 
numbers in the four basic 
series, R5, Rio, R20, and 
R40, as well as an additional 
R 80 scries, recommended 
for India and Part II contains 
a guide to the use of preferred 
numbers. (Price Rs. 2-00). 

This standard prescribes the 
constructional details and other 
particulars of handloom 
bleached or dyed cotton cellu- 
lose shirting. (Price Rs. 1 -50). 

This standard gives a simplified 
set of rules for the precise con- 
version of dimensions from 
Inches to millimeters and vie* 
versa to ensure interchange- 
ability The rules ate meant 
for use particularly in the work 
of engineers, designers, 
draughtsmen and shop workers. 
(Price Rs. 3-00). 

This standard lays down the nomi- 
nal dimensions, weight and basic 
geometrical properties of rolled 
steel tee bars, (Price Rs. I • 50). 


Copies of these Indian Standards arc available for sale with the Indian Standards Institution 
MANAK BHAVAN”, 9 Mathura Road, New Delhi-i and also at its Branch Offices at (t) 40/40A 
Cawasji Patel Streep Fort, Bombay-i, (t>) P-11, Mission Row Extension, Clucutta-r and 
(tit) 23, Nungambakkam High Road, Madras-6. 


D. V. Karmarkar, 
D.'puty Director (Marlas). 

INo. MDC/ii(4 ).] 

T. S. KUNCHITHAPATHAM, Under Secy. 



in c. SJ THE CA/EfTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY I, 1958/MAGHA 12. 1879 


239 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 
(Department of Agriculture) 

New Delhi, the 2 1st January 1958 

S.R.O. 398. — Tn exercise of the powers confered'bv sub-rule (2) of rule 11, 
clause (b) of sub-rule (2i of rule li end sub-rule (1) of rule 23 of the Central 
Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1957, the President here- 
by aii ei Is that the toll; wing amendments shall be made in the schedule to the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Agriculture No. S.R.O. 
C34-A, dlited the 28th February, 1957, namely: — 

In the said Schedule — 

(1) im Part I— 

(a) for the words “Ministry of Agriculture’’ wherever they occur, the words 

and brackets “Ministry of Food & Agriculture (Department of Agri- 
culture)” shall be substituted; 

(b) for the heading “Central Mechanised Farms, Jammu/Bhopal”, the head- 

ing “Central Mechanised Farm, Jammu” shall be substituted. 

12) in Part II — 

(a) for the words "Ministry of Agriculture” wherever they occur, the 

words and brackets “Ministry of Food & Agriculture (Department 
of Agriculture)” shall be substituted; 

(b) for the heading “Central Mechanised Farms, Jammu/Bhopal”, the head- 

ing “Central Mechanised Farm. Jammu” shall be substituted. 

[No. 8-49/57-FR.] 
B. R. KAPOOR, Under Secy. 


(Department of Food) 

ORDERS 

New Delhi , the 25th January 1958. 

S.R.O. 399, — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1965 (10 of 1955), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following amendment in the Inter-Zonal Wheat Movement Control Order, 1957, 
namely; - 1 - 

Atnendment 

In clause 4 of the said Order, the following provisos shall be inserted at the 
end, namely: — 

“Provided that in the exercise of the powers of entry and search under 
this clause, the authorised officer shall pay due regard to the social 
and religious customs of the occupants of the premises: 

Provided further that if any such premises be found locked up or unoccupied 
or unattended by or on behalf of the owner or occupier, the same 
may, m the presence of two witnesses be broken open and entered 
upon for all or any of the aforesaid purposes”. 

[No. 201 (3)/57-PY.II.] 

S.R.O. 400.— Tn exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1955 (10 of 1955), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following amendment in the, Rice (Southern Zone) Movement Control Order, 
1957, namely;, — 

Amendment 

In clause 4 of the said Order, the following provisos shall be added at the 
end, namely; — 

“Provided that in the exercise of the powers of entry and search under 
this clause, the authorised officer shall pay due regard to the social 
and religious customs of the occupants of the premises: 

Provided further that if any such premises be found locked up or unoccupied 
or unattended by or on behalf of the owner or occupier, the same 
may, in the presence of two witnesses be broken open and entered 
upon for all or any of the aforesaid purposes” 

[No. 201 (4) /57-PY.II.] 



240 HIE GA/.f 1 EE OF INUl lEUKGARA 1, ULRM-VGHA 12, 1 870 [Furr II 


S.R.O. 401. — In exercise oi the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1955 (10 of 1955), ihe Central Government hereby makes the 
following amendment in the Wheat Roller Flour Mills (Licensing and Control) 
Order, 1957, namely: — 

Amendment 

In sub-clause (1) of clause 33 ot the said Order, the, following provisos shall 
be inserted at the end, namely: — - 

“Provided that in the exercise of the powers of entry and search under 
this sub-clause, the authorised officer shall pay due regard to the 
social and religious customs of be occupants ot the premises: 

Provided further that if any such premises be found locked up or unoccupied 
or unattended by or on behalf of the owner or occupier, the same- 
may, in the presence of two witnesses be broken open and entered 
upon for all or any of the aforesaid purposes”. 

[No. 204(ll)/57 -P Y.II/FM. ] 

S.R.O. 462. — In exercise of the. powers conferred by section 3 of the EssentiaL 
Commodities Act, 1955 (10 of 1955), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following amendment in the Bombay Rice (Export Control) Ortler, 1957, 
namely: — 

Amendment 

In clause 4 of the said Order, the following provisos shall be added at the 
end, namely: — 

“Provided that in the exercise of the powers of entry and search under 
this clause, the authorised officer shall pay due regard to the social 
and religious customs of the occupants of the premises: 

Provided further that if any such premises be found locked up or unoccupied 
or unattended by or on behalf of the owner or occupier, the same 
may, in the presence of two witnesses be broken open and entered 
upon for all or any of the aforesaid purposes”. 

[No. 204 ( 14) /57-FY.II.] 

S.R.O. 403. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1955 (10 of 1955), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following amendment in the Orissa Rice (Prohibition of Export) Order, 1957, 
namely: — 

Amendment 

In clause 6 of the said Order, the following provisos shall be udded at the end, 
namely: — 

“Provided that in the exercise of the powers of entry and search under 
this clause, the authorised officer shall pay due regard to the social 
and religious customs of the occupants of the premises: 

Provided further that if any such premises be found locked up or unoccupied 
or unattended by or on behalf of the owner or occupier, the same 
may, m the presence of two witnesses be broken open and entered 
upon for all or any of the aforesaid purposes”. 

[No. 204(15)/57-PY.II.J 

S.R.O. 404.— In exercise of the powers coufeircd by section 3 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1955 (10 of 1955), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following amendment in the Punjab Rice (Movement Control) Order. 1957, 
namely: — 

Amendment 

In clause 4 of the said Order, the following provisos shall be added at the 
end, namely: — 

“Provided that in the exercise of the powers of entry and search under 
this clause, the authorised officer shall pay due regard to the social 
and religious customs of the occupants of the premises: 

Provided further that if any such premises be found locked up or unoccupied 
or unattended by or on behalf of the owner or occupier, the same 
may, in the presence of two witnesses be broken open and entered 
upon for all or any of the aforesaid purposes.” 

[No. 204(20)/57-PY.II.] 

£. N. BKALLA, Dy. Secy. 



241 


Sec. 3] T11F. CAZtlTF. OF 1NDI \ FERRuAJU 1, 1938, MACH \ 12, I87i) 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT & COMMUNICATIONS 
(Department of Transport) 

(Transport Wing) 

Merchant Shipping 
Neui Delhi , the 3rd January 1958 

S.R.O. 405. — Th< C'ential Governmeul ,s pleased to declare that the follow- 
ing shall oe the piuper national colours lor the ships and vessels not registered' 
in India: but are owned by any Depurttnenl of the Central Government or a 
.state Government: — - 

(1) Fur ships arid I'cssels OU'lied by the Ministry of Transport & Communi- 

cations ut the Central Government and used as training ships. — The 
Blue Ensign defaced by an Ashoka Chakra superimposed over the- 
<shanks of the anchor in a vertical position. 

(2) For ships and vessels of the Department of Lighthouses and Lightships 

of the Central Government. — The Blue Ensign defaced by a Light- 
house in a veitical position with two white Hgbt beams emanating 
horizontally from the beacon, 

(2; For ships and vessels of all port authorities other than Statutory Port 
Trusts. — The Blue Ensign suitably defaced with the crest of the 
Port or of the State Government which administers the port. 

(4)[ For all other ships and vessels owned by the Central/ State Govern- 
ment. — The Blue Ensign defaced by an appropriate badge of office 
as may be specifically prescribed in this behalf by the Central. 
Government. 

2, The defacement shall in every case be: — 

(i) in light golden colour; 

(ii) in the centre of the fly of the Ensign. (The fly is the half of the flag- 

farthest away from the Mast); 

(iii) not exceeding in dimension that of a circle whose diameter is 13/30th 
of the width of the flag. 

The notifications of the Government of India In the Ministry of Defence No. 
1429 dated the 27th December, 1952, and No. 1432 dated the 30th August, 1950, 
shall stand superseded with eilcct from the date of publication of this notification. 

[No. 20-MA(I)/55.]t 


CORRIGENDUM 


New Delhi , the 21st January 1958 

S.R.O. 400.— In the Indian Merchant Shipping (Life Saving Appliances) Rules. 

1956, published with (he notification of the Government of India in the late 
Ministry of Transport No S R.O 333, dated the 12th January 1957, in the Gazette 
of India Extraordinary at pages 301 to 329 Part II Section 3 dated 25th January 

1957. — 

In paragraph (8) of Part I of the Fifth Schedule for “tiled by 10 u ” read 
"titled by 10°”, 


[No. 51-MA(3)/54.] 


S. K. GHOSH, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Transport) 

(Transport Wing) 

Ports 

New Delhi, the 20 th January 1958 

S.R.O. 407, — In exercise of the powmrs conferred by sub-section (3) of sec- 
tion 3 of the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (XY of 1908), the Central Government is- 
pleased to authorise Shri P. K, Patankar, Pilot, Kandla Port, to pilot m and out 
of the Port, move in the harbour and to berth and un-berth ships upto 5,000 tons- 
gross (excepting tankers and vessels loaded with explosives) during day light 
only. 


[No. 2A-PG(78)/57.]i 



J24 2 


THE G\/E I' I E f)E INDIA. FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAG HA 12, 1879 [IGur II 


New Delhi, the 22nd January 1958 

S.R.O. 408.— In pursuance of the provisions of clause (3) of Section 3 of 
the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (XV of 1908), the Central Government hereby autho- 
rises Shri Jayawant Ganpatrao Ehonsle, Chief Officer of the Scindla Steam 
Navigation Company’s coasting steamers, as a licenced officer to piLot vessels in 
the Port of Bombay, subject to the restrictions laid down in Part XII of the 
Bumbay Port Trust Pilotage By-laws. 

[No. 8C-FG(137) / 57.] 
D. A. R. WARRIAR, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 22nd January 1958 

S.R.O. 409. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 4 of the Air 
•Corporations Act, 1953 (27 of 1953), the Central Government hereby appoints 
Air Commodore P. C. Lai, (1507) DFC, IAF, General Manager, Indian Airlines 
■Corporation, New Delhi as a member of the Indian Airlines Corporation. 

[No. 3-CA(l)/57.] 

S.R.O. 410. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 4 of the Air 
.Corporations Act, 1953 (27 of 1953), the Central Government hereby appoints 
Air Commodore P. C. Lai (1567) DFC, IAF, General Manager, Indian Airlines 
•Corporation, New Delhi as a member of the Air-India International Corporation. 

..[No. 3-CA(l)/57.j 


New Delhi, the 23 rd January 1958 

S.R.O. 411. — Under Sub-Section (1) of Section 5 of the Air Corporations Act. 
1953 (27 of 1953), Shri M- M. Philip, I.C.S., who has resigned, ceases to be a member 
«f the Indian Airlines Corporation from the 16th January, 1958. 


[No. 3-CA(l)/57.] 

S.R.O. 412.— Under Sub-Section (1) of Section 5 of the Air Corporations Act, 
1953 (27 of 1953), Shri M. M. Philip, I.C.S., who has resigned, ceases to be a member 
of the Air-India International Corporation from the 16th January, 1958. 

[No. 3-CA(l)/57.] 

K. K. UNNI, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Communications and Civil Aviation) 

New Delhi , the 23 th January 1958 

S.R.O. 413. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 10 of the Indian 
iPosr Office Act, 1898 (6 of 1898), the Centra! Government hereby directs that 
with effect on and from the 1st February, 1958, the following further amendment 
shall be made in the Indian Post Office Rules, 1933, namely: — 

In the sa ; d Rules, for rule 5, the following rule shall be substituted, namely: — 

“5. The following rates of postage shall be chargeable on postal articles when 
■the postage is prepaid: — 


Letters 

(A) For any part of the world served by the Foreign Post, with the exception 
•of Aden, Ceylon, Nepal, Pakistan and Portuguese India — 

For a weight not exceeding one ounce — 25 naye paise. 

For every additional one ounce or fraction thereof — 15 naye paise 

(B) For Aden, Ceylon, Nepal, Pakistan and Portuguese India — Ind ; an inland 

rates. 



Sic. 3j THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGHA 12, 1879 


243 


Postcards 

(A) For any part of the world served by the Foreign Post with the exception 
of Aden, Ceylon, Nepal, Pakistan and Portuguese India — 

For a single postcard — 15 naye paisc. 

For a reply postcard — 30 naye paise. 

(B) For Aden, Ceylon, Nepal, Pakistan and Portuguese India — Indian inland 
rates. 


Printed Papers ( including Newspapers and Books) 

(A) For any part of the world served by the Foreign Post with the exception 
of Aden Ceylon, Nepal, Pakistan and Portuguese India — 

For the first two ounces or fraction thereof — 8 naye paise. 

For every additional two ounces or fraction thereof, in excess of two 
ounces — 6 naye paise: 

Provided that in the case of newspapers which for the purpose of inland post 
are treated as registered newspapers, the rate of postage shall be, for each copy, 
4 naye paise for every two ounces or part thereof. 

(B) For Aden, Ceylon, Nepal, Pakistan and Portuguese India— Indian inland 
rates. 

Provide^ that in the case of newspapers which for the purpose of inland post are 
treated as registered newspapers, the Indian inland rates for registered news- 
papers shall apply. 

Express Delivery Unregistered Letters, Postcards and Book Packets 
Express delivery unregistered letters, postcards and book packets — 40 
naye paise in addition to the postage for the same article when not 
intended for express delivery. 

" Blind Literature” Packets 

"Blind Literature” packets to all foreign countries shall be exempt from 
postage. 

Business Papers ( Legal and Commercial Documents) 

(A) Bor any part of the world served by the Foreign Post with the exception 
of Aden, (Ceylon, Nepal, Pakistan and Portuguese India— 

For a weight not exceeding eight ounces — 25 naye paise. 

For every additional two ounces or fraction thereof — 6 naye paise. 

(B) For Aden, Ceylon, Nepal, Pakistan and Portuguese India — Indian inland 
rates. 


Sample Packets 

(A) For any part of the v. jrld served by the Foreign Post with the exception 
of Aden, Ceylon, Nepal, Pakistan and Portuguese India- — 

For the first two ounces or fraction thereof— B naye paise. 

For every additional two ounces or fraction thereof, in excess of two 
ounces— 6 naye paise. 

Provided that the charge for a sample packet shall in no case be less than 10 
naye paise. 

(B) For Aden, Ceylon, Nepal, Pakistan and Portuguese Indiu— Indian inland 
rates. 


Insured Boxes 

For a weight not exceeding ten ounces — One rupee. 

For every additional two ounces or fraction thereof — 20 naye paise. 

The Director-General shall, from time to time, declare in the Post and Tele- 
:raph Guide, the countries and places to which insured boxes can be transmitted 
iy the Foreign Letter Post. 



1 11E GA/El I E OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 1, 1 958/MAGHA 12, 1879 [Part II 


Parcels 

The Director-General shall, from tunc to time, declare in the Post and Tele- 
graph Guide the countries and places to which parcels may be transmitted by 
the Foreign Post, and the rates of postage chargeable in each case. 

Postage and other charges due on parcels which are returned as und Oliver able 
from the countries and places of dest nation in accordance with the arrangements 
m force between India und such countnes und places shall be recovered from 
senders in India." 


LNo. M&D 1-22/56.} 
K. K. SARAN, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING AND SUPPLY 

CORRIGENDA 

New Delhi, the 22nd January 1958 

S.R.O, 414.— To Notifications No. EWI-I5(9)/57-I; EWI-15(9)/57-II; EWI-15(9)/ 
57-III; EWl-15(9)/57-lV: dated the 15th December, 1957. 

1. Insert the following clause below the Note under paragraph 8 and above 
the sentence “SAVE AS PROVIDED ABOVE THE AGE LIMITS PRESCRIBED 
CAN IN NO CASE BE RELAXED”.: — 

“N.B.- — Candidates who are admitted to the examination under the age con- 
cession mentioned m paragraph 8 above will not be eligible for ap- 
pointment if, after submitting the application, they resign from 
sen ice either before or after taking the examination. They will, 
however, continue to he eligible if they arc retrenched from the 
service cr post after submitting the applications”. 

2. Delete the words ‘but before the 30th September, 1948’ from sub-clause (2} 
of paragraph 6 of the Rules. 

3. Insert the words ‘of categories (c) and (dl above’ after the word ‘Non- 
citizens’ in sub-clause (3) of paragraph 6 of the Rules. 


[No. 15(9)/57-EW.I.) 
B, R. MAZUMDAR, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 23 rd January 1958 

S.R.O. 415.— The following draft of a certain amendment to the Rules 
Regulating the Handling of Explosives in the Port of Bombay published under the 
late Department of Worka, Mines and Power Notification No. P. 103, dated the 11th 
March, 1947, which the Central Government proposes to make in exercise of 
the powers conferred by section 5 of the Indian Explosives Act, 1884 (4 of 1884} 
is published as required by section 18 of the said Act, for the information of all 
persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the said 
draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 28th February, 1958. 

Any objection or suggestion, which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date io specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 


Draft Amendment 

After sub-rule (.6) of rule 7 of the said rules, the following sub-rule shall be 
inserted, namely: — - 

‘‘(7) The boat shall be fitted with 2 efficient fire extinguishers — 1 Soda Acid 
type fire extinguisher and 1 Foam type extinguisher, each exting- 
uisher being of two gallons capacity.” 


[No. S&P n-Exp. 2(18)/57.] 
B. S, SARAO, Under Secy. 



Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE Ol- INDIA: IEHRIARY 1, 1958'MACHA 12, 1879 


^45 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

New Delhi, the 25th January 1958 

S.R.O. 416 —Whereas the Central Government is ol opinion that ir is necessary 
10 acquire ihc evacuee properties specified in the Schedule hereto annexed m [he State of Delhi 
for a public pinposc, being a puipose connected vvilh the rebel and rehabilitation ol displaced 
p ei suns, including payment of compensation to such persons ; 

Now, theiefore, in exercise of Lhc powers ennfened by Section 12 of the Displaced Persons 
fCompen, ilton and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 44 of 1954), the Central Government has decided 
to aeqmrtj, and hereby acquires, the evacuee propel ties specified in the Schedule hereto annexed. 


The SuirmTiE 


Serial Pari iculars of the evacuee Name of the town and Name of the Evacuee 

No. PropcrU locality 1 \ lllagt in which 

the properLv is situated 


X 


3 


4 


IX'TfiOO 


2933-37 


IX/1004 

1664-65 


IX«'tos4-s6 

3, 

1756-59 

IX/1050 

4. — 

1744-45 


IX/| 

?32 

I; 

578 

X/ 6 ! 

l7 


1046 


7. x/459-60 

645-54 

8. X/1070 


1594 
9. X/289 
464 
X,«i 4 

to. 

925 

II. XI/1476/1264 


Chumvalun, Delhi 


Shri Nasir Uddin. 


Pahari Bhoiln, Delhi 


. Pahari Bhojla, Delhi 


Musamat Khtnshid Begum, 
Mohamed Saveed and 
Mohamad Rashid. 

Messrs Mohamed Ibrahim 
Mohamed Usman, 


. Pahari Bhojla, Delhi 


Mohamed Usaq. 


. Pahari Bhojla, Delhi . . Shri Khuda Bux, 


. Mufti Walan, Delhi . 

Rang Mahal, Delhi 

Suiwalan, Delhi 

Chhatta Lai Main, Delhi 

Kucha Ruhallah Khan, Tiraha 
Bcram Khan, Delhi. 

. Gali Jamana Walai, Delhi, 


Shri Mohamed Mobid-ul- 
Husan. 

Shri Ghafur-ul-din 

Mobd. Ramzan Khan son of 
Kale Khan, 

Shri Nasir, Sayed 

Musamat Amnul-Qadar. 
lusam at Iqbal Jehan Begum. 


1 2. XI/4283/3301 


13. XI/1372/1160 


Delhi Gate, Delhi . . Mulana Mohamed Zubair and 

Mohamed irfan son of 
Mohamed Ishaq. 

Kucha Chelan, Delhi . * Mughal Jan son of Wali Jan. 


14. XI/327-28/286 


Matia Mahl, Delhi 


Zafar Mohamed. 


15. XI/3850/2992 


Kucha Chelan, Delhi 


Munitaz Hussain. 



246 

THE GAZF.T1E OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 1, l'J58 

MAGITA 12, 1879 [Part 11 

I 

2 

3 

4 

16. 

XIII/931-32 . 

. . Shish Mahal, Delhi 

Mohamed Ismail and Moha- 
med Umar. 

17- 

XIII '947-48 

. . Shish Mahal, Delhi 

Mohamed Ismail and Mohd. 
Umar. 

18. 

XIII'951-52 

. . Shish Mahal, Delhi . 

Mohamed Ismail and Mohamed 
Umar. 

19. 

XIII/2526-30 

. . Teliwara, Delhi 

Mohamed Shafi. 

20. 

XIII/7265/6633 

. . Kothi Mem, Delhi . 

Mohamed Sadiq. 

21. 

X]lI/7fu(5-T9 

. Bagh Beriwala, Delhi . 

Mohamed Ishaq. 

22 . 

XIII/fi78i-84 

. Pakki Gall, Delhi 

H. Sultan Ahmed. 

23. 

XIII/6555-56 

, Saddar Bazar, Delhi 

Mohamed Idris. 

24. 

XIV /2 798-280 1 & 
2812-2824. 

XIV/ Gali Chule Wali Gali Mandi 
Pan, Delhi. 

Musamat Hashmat Sulian 
wife of Mohamad Ghafoor. 

25. 

XIV/7159 . 

Qasab Pura, Dellii 

Ramzani son of Manwa. 

26. 

XIV/8200 . 

. . Qasah Burn, Delhi 

Wife of Altaf Hussain 

27- 

XIV/82R9 . 

Qasab Pura, Delhi 

Sirajuddin 

28. 

XIV/S673 ■ 

. Qasab Pura, Delhi 

Khuda Bux. 

29. 

XIV/9386-88 

. Qasab Pura, Delhi 

Fiazuddin 

3°- 

XIV/K281 . 

. Qasah Pura, Delhi 

Faqir Uddin. 

3i. 

XIV/8282 . 

. . Qasab Pura, Delhi . 

Mohamed Ibraham. 

32. 

XIV/13859 ■ 

Shidipura, Delhi 

Abdul Rashid son of Bahim 

Bux. 

33- 

XIV/I3457 • 

. . Shidipura, Delhi 

Baba Ali Bux, 

34- 

XIV/13458 - 

, . Shidipura, Delhi 

Qutdi & Shabrall. 

35- 

XIV/13873 - 

. . Shidipura, Delhi 

Noor Ahmad. 

3*5- 

House No. 92 

. Delhi Gate, Najafgar 

Shri Sher Shah son of Azim 
Shah. 

37- 

Khander 93 

. . Situated in Bazar, Najafgarh, 

Delhi. 

Shri Peru son of Nawab Ali, 

38. 

House No. 269 

. Chawla Gate, Najafgarh, Delhi 

Shri Khcrati son of Lala 

39- 

House No. 270 

. . Chawla Gate, Najafgarh, Delhi 

Shri Naeru son of Kalu. 

40. 

Khander 283 

. . Chawla Gate, Najafgarh. 

Delhi, 

Shri Mohsin Ali son of Mansab 
Ali. 

41. 

House No. 669 

. Gali Khabian, Najafgarh, 

Delhi. 

Shri Qodina son of Hasnoo 

42. 

House No. 670 

. . Gali Khabian Najafgarh, Delhi Shri Qodina son of I la sail o» 

43- 

Chaper No. 672 

. Gali Khabian, Najafgarh, 
Delhi. 

Shri Kalan son of Chhela. 

44- 

House No. 698 

. . Gab Bhastian, Najafgarh, Delhi Shri Mangal son of Idu. 

45- 

House No, 702 

, . Gali Bhastian, Najafgarh, Delhi 

Shri Nanak. 

46. 

House No. 731-A 

. Gali Bhastian, Najafgarh, 
Delhi. 

Shri Abdul Ghanl. 

47- 

Gouse No. 734 

Gali Bhastian, Najafgarh, Delhi 

Shri Ishaq Ali son of Sayed 
and Faiz Ali son of Nisad 


Ali. 



247 


Sec. S] THk GA/ETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGJIA 12, 1879 


I* 

2 

3 

4 

48. 

Chapcr No. 735 

. Gali Bhastian, Najafgarh, 
Delhi. 

Shri Uria son of Muthria. 

49- 

House No. 768 

. Gali Pathanan, Najafgarh, 
Delhi. 

Shri Manzoor Khan son of 
Famq Khan. 

50. 

House No. 778 

. Gali Pathanan, Najafgarh, 
Delhi. 

Shri Rehmat son of Nazira, 

5i. 

House flo. 792 

Gali Pathanan, Najafgarh, 
Delhi. 

Shri Amir Khan son of Umar 
Khan. 

J2. 

House f|o. 795 

. Gali Pathanan, Najafgarh, 
Delhi. 

Shri Gulzaru s/o Chhotu. 

53- 

House No. 800 

. Gall Pathanan, Najafgarh, 
Delhi. 

Shri Gulzara ton of Chhotu. 

54- 

House No. 808 

Gah Pathanan, Najafgarh, 
Delhi. 

Shri Bilu son oi Allah Bux, 

55- 

IIou^c No. 843 

Gali Hcapuiian, Najafgarh, 
Delhi. 

Shri Mohd Jan soil of Faiza, 

56. 

House No. S36 

. Gah Beapanan, Najafgarh, 
Delhi. 

Shri Hula ton ol Jula. 

.57. 

House I'jro. 844 

Gali Pathanan, Najafgarh, 
Delhi. 

Mes r ers Raja & Arrian son ol 
Gulam Mohammad. 

58. 

House l^o. 845 

. Gah Beaparian, Najafgarh, 
Delhi. 

Shr Mol t Jan 'or of Faiza. 

59. 

House No. 846 

Gali Beaparian, Najafgarh, 
Delhi, 

Shri Sana Ulah. 

60. 

House No. 848 

. Gali Beapanan, Najafgarh, 
Delhi. 

Shn Sana Ulah- 

6l. 

House No. 850 

. Gali Beaptirain, Naja'gurh, 
Delhi. 

Shri Sana Ulah. 

62. 

House No, 849 

Gali Beaparian, Najafgarh. 
Delhi. 

Mes' ers Imamuddm and 

Basheriiddm tons of Azim- 
uddin. 

63. 

House N|o.Sj2 

. Gali Beaparian, Najafgarh,, 
Delhi. 

Messer' Azit.11 Ullal and Ram- 
zan s on of Mauli. 

64. 

House No. 859 

Gali Beaparian, Najafgarh, 
Delhi. 

Mu'amat Munbhan widow 0 f 
Mian Bux. 

65. 

Chaper No, 868 

Gali Beaparian, Najafgarh, 
Delhi. 

Shri Pir Bux son of Khazoo. 

66. 

House No. S69 

. Gal Bcaprian, Najafgrah, 
Delhi. 

Shri Abudulson of Ramzani. 

67. 

House No. 870 

Gali Telian Najafgarh , Delhi 

Shri Mumta7 Khan son of 
Sadat Khan, 

68. 

House No. 1032 . 

. Gali Janias Najafgarh Delhi 

Shri Allah Dia sop of’ 

Wuzir. 

69. 

House No. 1033 . 

• Gali Jain Mandir, Najafgarh, 
Delhi. 

Shri Allah Dia so n of Wazir. 

70. 

House No. 1071 - 

Gali Beaparian, Najafgarh, 
Delhi. 

Shri Bashir son of Aladan. 

7i. 

House No. 1085 . 

Gali Beaparian, Najafgarh, 
Delhi. 

Shri Budhu. 

72. 

House No. 1112 . 

. Gali Beaparian, Najafgarh, 
Delhi. 

Shri Budhu son of Suchar. 

73- 

House No. 1115 • 

. Gali Beaparian, Najafgarh, 
Delhi. 

Shn Wafal ton of Bula. 

74- 

House No. 1116 ■ 

. Gah Beaparian, Najafgarh, 
Delhi. 

Shri Shabraii ton of Fudha. 

75- 

House No. 1 1 14 ■ 

. Gali Beaparian, Najafgarh, 
Delhi. 

Shri AH son of Nur Mohamad 



248 THF CAZFTTE OF INDIA- FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGIIA 12, 1879 [Part II 


I 

2 

3 

4 

76. 

C iapei No. 1132 

. . Gull Beapanon, Najafrarh, 

Hello. 

Shri Ahdu son of Baggo. 

77 ’ 

IIojjC No. T145 

. . Gali Keapunan, Najuigurh, 

Delhi 

Shu Allan Jan r c < 0 Bali. 

7V 

Ho lie No 11 )7 

Be.inarian, Nuufgarh, 

1 idh' 

A1 -.see, Kuranu 1dm and Inavat - 
Ullah -on ol Maldioi b. 

79- 

Home No. 1148 

. . Gab Beupauan, Nujafgarh, 

Delhi 

Shu Sadal ton ti Mir. 

Wo. 

Home No 1226 

Gab Wa/n Khun, Najufgarh 

1 1 j]ll, 

Shri Ah Jan and Sharefuddin 
sous ol All. 

Si. 

House No. 1229 

t mil \X 1/ 1 Khun, Nujafgarh, 
Deh ■ 

Shi 1 Anunuddin, 

82. 

TI >u e N 0. 1302 

MoholH Nuiafgurh, 

1 lelill 

Shri You al'Ah and Sakhawat 
Ah i-oiis cl '1 ahub Ah. 

S3. 

Home No 133s 

Mnh 1]j 1 uiu.u 1, Naiafgarh, 

1 "llu. 

Shu Suliun Kh-n. 

34- 

IIou e No. 1340 

Alohal'u K 1 elanof, Najafgurh, 
Delhi. 

Shri 1 .117. 

85 . 

House N 0 1 342 

• Moh. lln K1 elanas,Naiafgarh, 
Delhi. 

Shri Maqsud . 

35. 

HH 0 No 1345 

Mo iuLj Khelana'.jNuiutgarh, 
Del ni. 

Shu Abcvl Az z K1 rn. 

87. 

HueNo T 355 

M nulla Khehinas, Nmufgaih, 
Deln. 

Shu Klnu’aBuic. 

88. 

House No t36o 

. Mohullu Khelanus, Nujafgaih, 
D-Ilti. 

Shi 1 Shakoor Khan and Nasir 
K wn. 

39. 

[Iou,c No. 1358 

Mohuh Khs-lanas, Najafgarh, 
Delhi. 

Shri Alanu. 

90. 

House No, 1365 

. Mohalla Khclanas, Najafgarh, 
Delhi. 

Shri Yu e in , 

91. 

Home No. 1450 

. Mohalla Kahran, Najafgarh, 

Delhi. 

Shri Rashid. 

92. 

Home No. 1469 

. • MoiiulU Masudabad, Najaf- 

gaih, Delhi, 

Si ri Ilfimd Klan 11 Me Id 
Hamf and Mohd. Said. 

93- 

House No. 1476 

. Mohalla Masudabad, Najaf- 

garh, Delhi. 

Shri Rashid. 

94- 

Ilo no No. 14S7 

Mohalla Ala udnbad, Najaf- 
garh, Delhi, 

Shri Mohd Shafiq. 

95- 

V/ 89 and 140 

Shahdara 

Abdul Latif. 

96. 

II/422 

. Shahdara 

Abdul Ghafur- 

97- 

XIV/3474-77 

• Pahar Wall Galt. Gali Mande 
Wall Delhi. 

Chaudhry Ramasani son of 
Janialuddm, 


[ No. io( 6)S-I/57-] 

ONKAR DAYAL, Under Secy. 


(Office ol the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 

New Delhi , the 21 st January 1958 

S.R.O. 417. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (i) or Sec- 
tion 6 or the Administration ■ ol Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950), the 
Central Government hereby appoints for the States of Bihar and Orissa, Shrl 



sec. i] IfHE GAZETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 1, I958/MAGHA 12, 1879 


Mohan Chaudhry, I.A.S., Secretary, Ministry of Relief and Rehabilitation, Gov- 
ernment of Bihar as Custodian Evacuee Property vice Shri R. P. Singh, I.A.S., 
for the purpose or discharging the duties imposed on such officers by or under 
the said Act. 

[No. II(13)PROP(ADMN)/67.] 
I. N. CHIB, 

Dy. Chief Settlement Commissioner 
(.Ex-Officio Dy. Secy. 


(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 

New Delhi, the 21st January 1958 

SJt.O. ill 8. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (I) of section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 
1954), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Bhupinder Singh Chowdhry 
an Assistant Settlement Officer for the purpose of performing the functions as- 
signed to such officers by or under the said Act, with effect from the date he 
took charge of his post. 

[No. 8/177/57-Comp.I.] 

S.R.O. 419. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 
1954) the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Anant Ram Malhotra as 
Assistant Settlement Commissioner for the purpose of performing the functions 
assigned to such Commissioners by or under the said Act with effect from the 
date he took charge of his office, 

[No. 6/19/Comp. 1/55.] 

New Delhi, the 22nd January 1968 

S.R.O. 420. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (I) of section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation) Act, 1954. (44 of 1954), 
the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Vishnu Issardas Tewani an Assistant 
Settlement Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such 
officers by or under the said Act, with effect from the date he took charge of his 
post. 

[No. 8/ 172/57-Comp. I.] 

M. L. PURI, 

Settlement Commissioner and 

Ex-Officio Under Secy. 

MINISTRY OF LABOUR & EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 22nd January 1958 

S.R.O. 421. — In pursuance of section 8 of the Employees’ State Insurance 
ACt, 1948 (34 of 1948), the. Central Government hereby makes the following 
further amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour No. S.R.O. 2360, dated the 5th October, 1956, constituting the Standing 
Committee of the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation, namely: — 

In the said notification, for item (1), the following item shall be substituted, 
namely:— 

“(1) Shri P. M.‘ Menon, I.C.S., Secretary to the Government of India, 
Ministry of Labour and Employment.” 

[No. F.HL-l(5)/II/58.] 

S.R.O. 422. — In pursuance of section 4 of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 
1948 (34 Of 1948), the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour No. S.R.O. 2155. dated the 16th November, 1953, constituting the 
Employees’ State Insurance Corporation, namely:— 

In the said notification, for item (4), the following item shall be sub- 
stituted, namely: — 

“4. Shri P. M. Menon, I.C.S., Secretary to the Government of India, 
Ministry of Labour and Employment.” 

[No. F.HI-l(5)/I/58.] 
K. N. NAMBIAR, Dy. Secy. 



250 THE GAZETtE OE INDIA: EEbEuARY 1, 1958/MAgHA 12 , 1879 [Part It 


New Delhi, the 22 nd January 1958 

S.R.O. 423. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 of the Coal 
Mines Provident Fund and Bonus Schemes Act, 1948 (46 of 1948), the Central 
Government hereby makes the following further amendments in the Andhra 
Pradesh Coal Mines Provident Fund Scheme published with the notification of 
the Government of India in the late Ministry of Labour No. S.R.O. 657, dated 
the 12th March, 1958 and as amended from time to time namely: — 

In the said Scheme — 

1 . in clause (k) of paragraph 2 for the words “ending with the date of 

the application on which he is permitted to withdraw the amount 
standing to his credit in the Fund under paragraph 41” the words 
“ending with the date on which the amount standing to his credit 
in the Fund and refundable under paragraph 41 is tendered for 
payment” shall be substituted. 

2. in paragraph 39, for the first proviso to sub-paragraph (2) the follow- 

ing proviso shall be substituted, namely: — 

“Provided that when the amount standing at the credit of the member 
has become payable,, interest shall thereupon be credited under this 
sub-paragraph for the period upto the end of the month preceding 
the date of tender of payment”. 


[No. FF-I/2(101)/56/II.] 


S.R.O, 424. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 of the Coal 
Mines Provident Fund and Bonus Schemes Act, 1948 (46 of 1948), the Central 
Government hereby makes the following further amendments in the Coal Mines 
Provident Fund Scheme published with the notification of the Government of 
India in the late Ministry of Labour No. PF.15(5)/48, dated the 11th December, 
1948 and as amended from time to time, namely: — 

In the said Scheme — 

1 , in clause (k) of paragraph 2 for the words “ending with the date of 

the application on which he is permitted to withdraw the amount 
standing to his credit in the Fund under paragraph 63” the words 
“ending with the date on which the amount standing to his credit 
in the Fund and refundable under paragraph 63 is tendered for 
payment” shall be substituted. 

2 . in paragraph 61 for the first proviso to sub-paragraph ( 2 ) the following 

proviso shall be substituted, namely: — 

“Provided that when the amount standing at the credit of the member 
has become payable, interest shall thereupon be credited under 
this sub-paragraph for the, period upto the end of the month pre- 
ceding the date of tender of payment”. 


LNo. PF-I/2(101)/56/I.] 


New Delhi, the 23 rd January 1958 

SJt-O. 425.— Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment, being a factory, 
known as Machinery Paints and Chemicals (India) Limited, Nagardas Road, Mogra, 
Andheri, Bombay-41, have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident 
Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of sec- 
tion 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 1st day of 
October, 1956. 


[No. P.F, II 9(l)/58.] 



Sec. 3] T&E GAZETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGIIA 12, 1879 251 


SJTO. 420.— Whereas immediately before the Employees’ Provident Funds 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), became applicable, with effect from the 1st November, 
1952, to the factory of Messrs Pearl Thread Mills Limited, at Suryodaya Mills 
Compound, Tardeo, Bombay-7, there was in existence a provident fund common 
to the employees employed in the factory of the sajd company to which the said 
Act applies and the employees in their Head Office establishment at No, 0, 
Laxmi Buildings, Ballard Road, Fort, Bombay-1; 

Now, therefore. In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the said 
Act, the Central Government hereby directs that the provisions of the said Act 
shall apply to the said establishment of Head Office of the Company at No. 0, 
Laxmi Buildings, Ballard Road, Fort, Bombay-1. 


[No, PF.II-37(33)/57.] 


S.Tt.O. 427.— Whereas It appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment, being a fac- 
tory, known as International Packing Company (Private) Limited, 62, Lamington 
Road, Byculla, Bombay-8, have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Pro- 
vident Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said esta- 
blishment; 

Now, | therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of sec- 
tion 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come Into force on. the 1st day of 
November, 1957. 


[No. P.F. II 0(l)/58.] 


Nem Delhi, the 24th January 1958 

8 .R.O. 428/BDWS/Am.(0). — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section 
(1) of section 4 of the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act, 1948 (9 of 
1948), the Central Government hereby makes the, following amendment In the 
Bombay Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1950, the same 
having been previously published as required by the said sub-section, namely; — 

Amendment 

In the said Scheme, in Clause 4, sub-clause (7), for paragraphs (a), (b), (c) 
and (d), the following paragraphs shall be substituted, namely: — 

“(a) A member other than a member representing the Central Govern- 
ment shall hold office for a period of three years from the date of 
the notification appointing him as a member and shall be eligible for 
re-appointment; 

Provided that an outgoing member shall continue in office until the 
appointment of his successor is notified in the Official Gazette: 

Provided further that a member appointed to fill a casual vacancy shall hold 
office for the unexpired portion of the term of the person in whose 
place he is appointed. 

(b) A member representing the Central Government may be appointed 

either by name or by virtue of his office. Every such member shall 
hold office during the pleasure of the Central Government, 

(c) A member other than a member representing the Central Government 

may resign his office by a letter under his hand addressed to the 
Chairman,” 


[No. Fac. 74(107)/57,] 

S.R.O. 429/CDWS/Aru.(2). — In exercise of the powers conferred bv sub 
section (1) of section 4 of the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment! Art 
1948 (9 of 1048), the Central Government hereby makes the following amendment 
in the Calcutta Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme 1953 the 



252 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 1. 1958/MACHA 12, 1879 [Part IT 


game having been previously published as required by the said sub-section, 
namely: — 


Amendment 

In the said Scheme, in clause 4, sub-clause (7), for paragraphs (a), (b), 
(c) and (d), the- following paragraphs shall be substituted, namely, — 

“(a) A member other than a member representing the Central Govern- 
ment shall hold office for a period of three years from the date of 
the notification appointing him as a member and shall be eligible 
for re-appointment: 

Provided that an outgoing member shall continue in office until the 
appointment of his successor is notified in the official Gazette: 

Provided further that a member appointed to fill a casual vacancy shall 
hold office for the unexpired portion of the term of the person In 
whose place he is appointed. 

(b) A member representing the Central Government may be appointed 

either by name or by virtue of his office. Every such member shall 
hold office during the pleasure of the Central Government. 

(c) A member other than a member representing the Central Government 

may resign his office by a letter under his hand addressed to the 
Chairman.” 


[No. Fac. 74(1071/87.] 

S.R.O. 430. — The following draft of certain further amendments to the Indian 
Dock Labourers Regulations, 1948, which the Central Government proposes to make 
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Indian Dock Labourers Act, 
1934 (19 of 1934), is published, as required by section 7 of the said Act, for the 
information of all persons likely to be affected thereby and notice Is hereby given 
that the said draft will be taken Into consideration on or after the 1st March 1958. 

Any objections or suggestions which mav be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be taken Into consideration 
by the Central Government. 


Draft Amendment 

In the said Regulations — 

1. For Regulation 12, the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

“12. Notice of accident s and dangerous occurrences . — (1) Whenever any 
accident occurs which either — 

(a) causes loss of life to a worker or 

(b) disables a worker from work on which he was employed for the rest of 

the dav or shift on which thp accident occurred, notice of the accident 
shall forthwith be sent by telegram, telephone or special messenger 
within four hours of the occurrence, to — 

(1) the Inspector notified for the purpose: 

(II) the relatives of the worker when the accident causes loss of life to the 
worker or likely to disable the worker from work for more than ten 
days; and 

(Hi) in the case of fatal accidents only, 

(a) the offlcer-ln-charge of the nearest Police Station; and 

(b) the District Magistrate or if the District Magistrate by order so directs, 

the Sub-Divisional Magistrate: 

Provided that a notice of any accident of which notice Is sent in accordance 
with the requirements of the Explosives Act, 1884 (4 of 1884). or the 
Petroleum Act. 1934 <30 of 1934). need not be sent In accordance with 
the requirements of this regulation. 

In cases of accidents falling under clause (b) the injured person shall be 
given first-aid and thereafter immediately conveyed to a hospital or 
other place of treatment. 

(2) Where any accident causing disablement is notified under this regulation 

and after notification thereof results in the death of the person 
disabled, notice in writing of the death shall he sent to the authorities 
mentioned in sub-regulation (1) immediately the death occurs. 



Sic. 3] JHE GAZETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGHA 12, 1879 253 


(3) The following classes of dangerous occurrences shall forthwith be reported 

to the Inspector in the manner prescribed In sifb-regulatlon (1), 
whether death or disablement fs caused or not: — 

( I ) collapse or failure of lifting machinery; 

( II ) bres’-age or failure of ropes, chains or other appliance? used In raising 

or lowering of persons or goods; and 

■fiii) collapse or failure of means of access to or from a ship. 

(4) .Every notice given under sub-regulation (1) or every report made under 

sub-regulation (3) shall be confirmed within seventy-two hours of the 
occurrence by sending a written report to the Inspector in Form XII, 
provided that in case of accident under clause (b) of sub-regulation 
( 1 ) such written report need be sent only when the worker is disabled 
from work on which he was employed for more than forty-eight hour? 
following the accident”, 

2. In Form XII— (i) For Rem 5(4), the following Item shall be substituted, 
namely: — 

"5(4) Was the injured person disabled for more than forty-eight hours?” 

(ii) for the Instructions on the reverse, the following shall be substituted, 
namely: — 

Instructions 

Notice of accidents and dangerous occurrences 

( 1 ) Whenever any accident occurs which either — 

(a) 1 causes loss of life to a worker or 

(b) disables a worker from work on which he was employed for the rest of 

the day or shift on which the accident occurred, notice of the accident 
shall forthwith be sent by telegram, telephone or special messenger 
within four hours of the occurrence, to — 

(i) the Inspector notified for the purpose: 

(il) the relatives of the worker when the accident causes loss of life to the 
worker or likely to disable the worker from work for more than ten 
days; and 

( III ) in the case of fatal accidents only, 

(a) the offlcer-ln-charge of the nearest Police Station; and 

(b) lthe District Magistrate or if the District Magistrate bv order so directs, 

the Sub-Divisional Magistrate: 

Provided that a notice of any accident of which notice Is sent in accordance 
with the requirements of the Explosives Act, 1884 (4 of 1884), or the 
Petroleum Act, 1934, 130 of 1934), need not be sent in accordance with 
the requirements of this regulation. 

In cases of accidents failing under clause (b) of sub-regulation (I) of regu- 
lation 12 . the Injured person shall be given first-aid and thereafter 
immediately conveyed to a hospital or other place of treatment. 

2 . Where any accident causing disablement is notified under this regulation and 
after notification thereof results in the death of the person disabled, notice In 
writing of the death shall be sent to the authorities mentioned in sub-regulation ( 1 ) 
of regulation 12 , immediately the death occurs. 

3. The following classes of dangerous occurrences shall forthwith be reported to the 
Inspector in the manner prescribed in sub-regula+lon ( 1 ) of regulation 12 , whether 
death or disablement Is caused or not: — 

(i) collapse or failure of lifting machinery: 

(II) breakage or failure of ropes, chains or other appliances used in raising 
or lowering of persons or goods: and 

(iii) collapse or failure of means of access to or from a ship, 

4. Every notice given under .sub-regulation ( 1 ) or every report made under sub- 
regulation (3) of regulation 12, shall be confirmed within seventy-two hours of the 
occurrence by sending a written report to the Insnector in Form XII. provided that 
in case of accident under clause (b) of sub-regulation ( 1 ) of regulation 12 , such 
written report need be sent only when the worker Is disabled from work on which 
he was employed for more than forty-eight hours following the accident”. 

[No. Fac. 38(10fl)/57.) 



254 THfi GAZETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 1. 19B8/MAGHA 12, 1879 [Paw II 


New Delhi, the 25 th January 1958 

S.R.O. 481. — In pursuance of paragraph 3 of the Coal Mines Provident Fund 
Scheme published with the notification of the Government of India in the late 
Ministry of Labour No. PF 15(5)48 dated the 11th December 1948, the Central 
Government hereby nominates Shri O. P, Mohla, Attached Financial Adviser, 
Ministry of Finance (Labour Branch), to the Board of Trustees, and makes the 
following further amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the 
late Ministry of Labour No. S.R-O. 2227 dated the 5th October, 1955 namely: — 

In the said notification, for the entry ‘‘(2) Shri R. R. Agarwala, Assistant 
Financial Adviser, Ministry of Finance (Labour Division), New Delhi”, 
the entry "(2) Shri O. P. Mohla, Attached Financial Adviser, Ministry 
of Finance (Labour Branch), New Delhi” shall be substituted- 

[No. PF-I/4(35)58 ] 
R. C. SAKSENA, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 23 rd January 1958 

S.R.O. 482. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal. Delhi, In the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to Laxmi Bank Ltd., Delhi and Its workmen. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, DELHI 

Present : 

Shri E. Krishna Murti, Industrial Tribunal, 

13th January, 1958 
I.D. No. 271 op 1957 
Between 

The Laxmi Bank Limited, Chandnl Chowk, Delhi. 

AND 

Its workmen. 

Shri H. L. Parvana — for the workmen. 

None for the management. 


AWARD 

By G O. No. S.R.O. dated the 17th July, 1957, the Industrial dispute, between 
the Laxmi Bank Limited, Chandni Chowk, Delhi and its workmen, was referred 
to this Tribunal for adjudication under Section 10(l)(d) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, 

8. The term of reference is as follows: — 

Whether the discharge of Shri Ram Dulare, Peon, Delhi Branch of the Laxmi 
Bank Limited, under the provisions of para. 522(4) of the Sastry Award is sus- 
tainable, and, If not, to what relief he is entitled? 

3. It is alleged In the statement of claim, that Shri Ram Dulare was employed 
as a Peon in a permanent vacancy by the Laxmi Bank Limited at Its Chandnl 
Chowk Office on 11th November, 1953 that he was In continuous service in the 
bank for over 18 months, that he was an active trade unionist, that he participat- 
ed in one day’s token strike of the bank employees in Delhi on 23rd September, 
1954, that thereafter he was being harassed by the management, that his services 
were arbitrarily terminated without any enquiry, and that he must be reinstated 
together with all back wages. 

4, The contention on behalf of the company is, that it is true that Shri Ram 
Dulare was an employee of the bank for 18 months, that he was however not in 
continuous service, as alleged, that it Is not true that he was being harassed, as 
alleged, that during the period of employment as a Peon, his conduct was not 
satisfactory, that he had committed dishonest acts, that he was grossly negligent, 



Sec. S] TjlE GAZETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGHA 12, 1879 $$$ 

that he did not improve In his work, that the bank had no option except to ter- 
minate his service, and that the discharge of Shri Ram Dulare Is legal and cannot 
be set aside. 

5. The issues, that arise for determination, are: — 

(1) Whether the termination of services of Shri Ram Dulare ia lawful and 

justified? 

(2) To what relief, if any, is he entitled? 

6. In this case at the time of trial there was no representation on behalf of 
the management, and nobody was present on behalf of the bank. The bank was 
set ex-part^. 

Issue No. 1 

7. According to the evidence of Shri Ram Dulare, the workman in question, 
he entered the service of the bank on llth November, 1953. He served con- 
tinuously upto 20th May, 1955. No employment letter was given to him. He was 
working as a Peon. At no time was he given any letter or any communisation 
that he was entertained only as a temporary workman, or as a probationer. No 
communication was sent to him, that his probation was extended. Abruptly on 
2fith May, 1955 he was asked to go away without any justification, and ha was 
given a notice of discharge. Ext. W/l. The witness says, that the charges 
mentioned therein are all untrue, and that he was never guilty of any inefficiency, 
or misconduct, or of negligence. He took part in the strike of bank employees on 
23rd September, 1954. He had not received any warning prior to the date of his 
discharge. 

8. The evidence of Shri Ram Dulare is uncontradicted. It i s clear, that no 
enquiry was held by the management, The allegations of mis-conduct, Inefficiency 
and dis-honesty, made in the statement of the management, have not been esta- 
blished. In the above circumstances, It must be held, that the discharge of Shri 
Ram Dulare is unlawful and unjustified, and that it is also opposed to the provi- 
sions of para. 522(4) of the Sastry Award. The decisions in 1957 I LLJ 87 and 
1957 I LLJ 332 have been referred to in this connection by Shri Parvana for 
the workman. I find that the termination of service of Shri Ram Dulare is not 
sustainable. 

Issue No. 2. 

9. The question next is about the relief, to which he Is entitled. There i s no 
ground established for denying the normal relief of re-instatement. I find that 
he is entitled to be re-instated and restored to his old post. So far as back 
wages are concerned, he has stated, that he Is unemployed. The discharge took- 
place long ago on 26th May, 1955. He was getting It's, 50 per month. It seems 
to me fair and reasonable to order payment of Rs. 300, representing six months’ 
salary as compensation for forced unemployment. 

10. In the result, the Laxmi Bank Limited will re-instate Shri Ram Dulare 
in service In the Bank and restore him to his old post, which he held at the time 
of termination of his service within two weeks from the date when this award 
becomes enforceable. The said bank shall also pay him Rs. 300 by way of com- 
pensation for forced unemployment. The period between 26th May, 1955, the date 
of termination of service, and the date of re-lnstatement shall not operate as 
break In the continuity of service, and Shri Ram Dulare shall be deemed to have 
continued in service during this period. No order as to costs. 

11. An award is passed accordingly. 

(Three pages) 

The 13 th January, 1958. 

E. Krishna Murti, 

Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal, Delhi, 


[No. LR-1O(72)/60.1 
A. L, H-ANDA, Under Secy. 



i 56 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 1, 1958/MAGHA 12, 1879 Part II-Sec. ft] 


New Delhi, the 2&rd January 1958 

S.R.O. 438. — In exorcise of the powers conferred by section 8 of the Coal 
Mines Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1947 (82 of 1947), read with rule 3 of the Coal 
Mines Labour Welfare Fund Rules, 1949, the Central Government hereby ap- 
points Mr. R. Lall, a person nominated by the Indian Mining Association, as a 
member of the Advisory Committee constituted in the notification of the Govern- 
ment of India in the Ministry ot Labour and Employment No. S.R.O, 3286, dated 
the 8th October 1957, vice Mr. B. Mitter resigned, and makes the following further 
amendment in the said notification, namely: — > 

for the entry “8. Mt. B. Mitter", the entry "8. Mr. R. Lall” shall be 
substituted. 

[No. MII-3(l)/58.] 

S.R.O. 434. — The Chief Inspector of Mine* having nominated in pursuance of 
rule 4 read with rule 5 ol the Coal Mines Rescue Rules, 1939, Shri R. G. Deo, 
Regional Inspector of Mihes to be a member of the Rescue Stations Committee 
in the vacancy caused by the resignation of Shri G. S. Jabbl, the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby makes the following amendment in the notification of fhe Gov- 
ernment of India in the Ministry of Labour No. S.R.O. 1138 dated the 23rd May, 
1969, namely: — 

In the said notification, for the entry "(1) Shri G. S. Jabbi, Deputy Chief 
Inspector of Mines, nominated by the Chief Inspector of Mines’’ the 
entry “(1) Shri Rj. G, Deo, Regional Inspector of Mines, nominated 
by the Chief Inspector of Mines” shall be substituted. 

[No. MI-54(7)/57.] 

New Delhi , the 24 th January 1988 

S.R.O. 485.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
B of th« Mine* Act, 1952 (35 of 1952), the Central Government haa appointed 
JBhrl L. M. Missra, an officer of the Department of Mines, to be Inspector of 
Mines subordinate to the Chief Inspector, with effect from the 10th December, 
1987. 

[No. MI 48(83)/»7.] 
S. RANGASWAMI, Under Secy. 


.n- — „ r i " > ■ ■ ■■ 1 " — " 

PMNTID 1M WDIA BY TUI CENWAL MANAOBR, OOTT. OF INDIA PRBW, 
WW »ELH| AND PUBLISHED BY TH* MANAOI* OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1956 


